v)8inn  :  u^> 


^ 


Bl 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/experiencedengliOOraff_0 


'■'■-'^Ii  '-i-'V'-i-',',:-, '-,'-,  '-,':,', 'iM'-.v'.'tftfr':! 


^J,"^itnTMi 


J'ttbli.thcd '  aj  the  Act directs,  bylLBaldwifl,  J/Julv,  ijSi 


THE   EXPERIENCED 

Englifh  Houfekeeper, 


For  the  USE  and  E  A  S  E  of 

Ladies,  Houfekeepers,  Cooks,  Sec. 

Written  purely  from  PRACTICE, 

AND     DEDICATED     TO     THE 

Hon.  LADY  ELIZABETH  WARBURTON, 

Whom  the  Author  lately  ferved  as  Houfekeeper  : 

Confirming  of  near  Nine    hundred    Original   Receipts,  moft  of 
which  never  appeared  in  Print. 


PART  I.  Lemon  Pickle,  Browning 
ibr.all  Sorts  of  made  Dimes,  Soups", 
Fifh,  Plain  Meat,  Game,  Made 
Dimes  both  hot  and  cold,  Pyes, 
Puddings,  Sec. 

PAJRT  II.  All  Kinds  of  Confec- 
tionary, particularly  the  Gold  and 
Silver  Web  for  covering  of  Sweet- 
meats, and  a  Deflert  of  Spun  Sugar 
with  Directions  to  fet  out  a  Tables 
in  the  moft  elegant  Manner,  and 


in  the  modern  Tafte  ;  Floating 
Iflands,  Fifh-Ponds,  Tranfparent 
Puddings,  Trifles,  Whips,  &c. 
PART  Ills  Pickling,  Potting,  and 
Collaring,  Wines,  Vinegars,  Catch- 
ups, Diftilling,  with  two  moft  va- 
luable Receipts,  one  for  refining 
Malt  Liquors,  the  other  for  curing 
Acid  Wines,  and  a  correct  Lift  of 
every  Thing  in  Seafon  for  every 
Month  in  the  Year. 


T    H   E      T    £   N   T   H      EDITION. 

Wl^ff  AN  'ENiGRAVED:fiFAD'  Oi-'  TH'e"- AUTHOR  j 
Alfo  Two  Plans  of  a  Gra'nd'1  a£l*e  of  Two  Covers  ;  and 
A  curious  new  invented  Fire  Stov::,  wherein  any  common  Fuel  may  be 
burnt  inftead  of  Charcoal. 


By   ELIZABETH    RAFF  ALP.     / 

_ 

LONDON: 

PRINTED    FOR    R.    BALDWIN    NO.    47,    IN    P  ATER-NOSTER-ROW, 
MDCCLXXXVI. 


J 


J; 


m  *  •  •  • 
• » • »  •  • 


TO  THE  HONOURABLE 

LADY  ELIZABETH  WARBURTON* 


PERMIT  me,  honoured  Madam,  to 
lay  before  you  a  work,  for  which 
I  am  ambitious  of  obtaining  your  Lady- 
ihip's  approbation,  as  much  as  to  oblige 
a  great  number  of  my  friends,  who  are 
well  acquainted  with  the  practice  I  have 
had  in  the  art  of  Cookery,  ever  fince  I 
left  your  Ladyfhip's  family,  and  have 
often  follicited  me  to  publifh  for  the  in- 
ftruftion  of  their  housekeepers. 

As  I  flatter  myfelf  I  had  the  happinefs 
of  giving  fatisfaftion,  during  my  fervice, 
Madam,  in  your  family,  it  would  be  a 
Hill  greater  encouragement,  fhould  my 
endeavours  for  the  fervice  of  my  fex  be 
honoured  with  the  favourable  opinion  of 
fo  good  a  judge  of  propriety  and  elegance 
as  your  Ladyihip. 

I  am  not  vain  enough  to  propofe 
adding  any  thing  to    the   Experienced 

A  %  Houfe- 


DEDICATION. 

Houfekeeper,  but  hope  thefe  receipts 
(written  purely  from  practice)  may  be  of 
ufe  to  young  perfons  who  are  willing  to 
improve  themfelves. 

I  rely  on  your  Ladyfhip's  candour, 
and  whatever  Ladies  favour  this  book 
with  reading  it,  to  excufe  the  plainnefs 
of  theftyle;  as,  in  compliance  with  the 
defire  of  my  friends,  I  have  ftudied  to 
exprefs  myfelf  fo  as  to  be  underftood  by 
the  meaneft  capacity,  and  think  myfelf 
happy  in  being  allowed  the  honour  of 
fubfcribing, 

MADAM, 


Your  Ladyfhip's 
Moft  dutiful, 
Moft  obedient, 
And  moft  humble  Servant, 

ELIZABETH  RAFFALD, 


Preface  to  the  Pirji  Edition. 

WH  E  N  I  refled  upon  the  number  of 
books  already  in  print  upon  this  fub- 
ject,  and  with  what  contempt  they  are  read 
I  Cannot  but  be  apprehenfive  that  this  may 
meet  the  fame  fate  from  fome,  who  will  cen- 
fure  before  they  either  fee  it  or  try  its  value. 

Therefore  the  only  favour  I  have  to  beg 
the  publick  is,  not  to  cenfure  my  work  before 
they  have  made  trial  of  fome  one  receipt,  which 
I  am  perfuaded,  if  carefully  followed,  will  an- 
fwer  their  expectations;  as  I  can  faithfully  af- 
fure  my  friends,  that  they  are  truly  written  from 
my  own  experience,  and  not  borrowed  from 
any  other  author,  nor  gloffed  over  with  hard 
names,  or  words  of  high  ftile,  but  written  in 
my  own  plain  language,  and  every  fheet  care- 
fully perufed  as  it  came  from  the  prefs,  having 
an  opportunity  of  having  it  printed  by  a  neigh- 
bour, whom  I  can  rely  on  doing  it  the  ftricleft 
juftice,  without  the  leaft  alteration. 

The  whole  work  being  now  completed  to 
my  wifhes,  I  think  it  my  duty  to  render  my 
moft  lincere  and  grateful  thanks  to  my  moil 
noble  and  worthy  friends,  who  have  already 
Ihown  their  good  opinion  of  my  endeavours  to 
ferve  my  fex,  by  railing  me  fo  large  a  fubfcrip- 
lion,  which  far  exceeds  my  expectations.  I  have 
not  only  been  honoured  by  having  above  eight 
hundred  of  their  names  inferted  in  my  fubfcrip- 
tion,  but  alfo  have  had  all  their  intereft  in  this 
laborious  undertaking,  which  I  have  at  laft  ar- 
rived to  the  happinefs  of  completing,  though 

5  *t 


t  a  3 

at   the  expence  of   my  health,  by  being  to© 
ftudious,  and  giving  too  clofe  application. 

The  only  anxious  wifh  I  have  left  is,  that 
my  worthy  friends  may  find  it  ufeful  in  their 
families,  and  bean  inftruftor  to  the  young  and 
ignorant  as  it  has  been  my  chiefeft  care  to  write 
in  as  plain  aftileas  poffible,  fo  as  to  be  under- 
stood by  the  weakeil  capacity. 

I  am  not  afraid  of  being  called  extravagant, 
if  my  reader  does  not  think  that  I  have  erred  on 
the  frugal  hand. 

I  have  made  it  my  ftudy  to  pleafe  both  the  eye 
and  the  palate,  without  ufing  pernicious  things 
for  the  fake  of  beauty. 

And  though  I  have  given  fome  of  my  diihes 
French  names  as  they  are  only  known  by  thofe 
names,  yet  they  will  not  be  found  very  expenfive* 
nor  add  compofitions  but  as  plain  as  the  nature 
of  the  difh  will  admit  of. 

The  receipts  for  the  confectionary  are  fuch 
as  I  daily  fell  in  my  own  fhop,  which  any  Lady 
may  examine  at  pleafure,  as  I  ftill  continue  my 
befl  endeavours  to  give  fatisfadtion  to  all  who 
are  pleafed  to  favour  me  with  their  cuflom. 

It  may  be  neceffary  to  inform  my  readers, 
that  I  have  fpent  fifteen  years  in  great  and 
worthy  families,  in  the  capacity  of  a  houfe- 
keeper,  and  had  an  opportunity  of  travelling 
with  them ;  but  finding  the  common  fervants 
generally  fo  ignorant  in,  drefiing  meat,  and  a 
good  cook  fo  hard  to  be  met  with,  put  me  upon 
ftudying  the  art  of  cookery,  more  than  perhaps 

I  other- 


C     iii     ] 

lotherwife  mould  have  done :  always  endeavour-* 
Ing  to  join  oeconomy  with  neatnefs  and  elegance, 
being  fenfible  what  valuable  qualifications  thefe 
are  in  a  houfe-keeper  or  cook  ;  for  of  what  ufe 
is  their  fkill,  if  they  put  their  mailer  or  lady 
to  an  immoderate  expence  in  dreffing  a  dinner 
for  a  fmall  company,  when  at  the  fame  time  a 
prudent  manager  would  have  dreifed  twice  the 
number  of  dimes  for  a  much  greater  company, 
at  half  the  coft. 

I  have  given  no  directions  for  cullis,  as  I  have 
found  by  experience,  that  lemon  pickle  and 
browning  anfwers  both  for  beauty  and  tafte  (at 
a  trifling  expence)  better  than  cullis,  which  is 
extravagant :  for  had  I  known  the  ufe  and  value 
of  thofe  two  receipts  when  I  firft  took  upon  me 
the  part  and  duty  of  a  houfe-keeper,  it  would 
have  faved  me  a  great  deal  of  trouble  in  making 
gravy,  and  thofe  I  ferved  a  deal  of  expence. 

The  number  of  receipts  in  this  book  are  not 
fo  numerous  as  in  fome  others,  but  they  are 
what  will  be  found  ufeful  and  fufficient  for  any 
gentleman's  family — neither  have  I  meddled 
with  phyfical  receipts,  leaving  them  to  the 
phyficians  fuperior  judgment,  whofe  proper 
province  they  are. 


Defcription 


Eefcription  of  the  PL  A  TE. 

TH  E  Plate  is  the  defign  of  three  ftove-fires  for  the 
kitchen  that  will  burn  coals  or  embers  inftead  of  char- 
coal (which  I  always  found  expenfive,  as  well  as  pernicious 
to  the  cooks)  and  wili  carry  off  the  fmoke  of  the  coals  and 
iteam,  and  fmell  of  the  pots  and  flew  pans ;  the  coals  are 
burnt  in  caft  iron  pots,  flat  at  the  bottom,  with  bars. 

AA,  Fronts  of  the  ftove. 

BB,  Top  of  the  ftove,  which  is  covered  all  over  with 
caft  iron. 

CC,  S*ove-pots,  in  which  the  fire  is  made. 

D,  The  form  of  the  pot,  with  two  vents  caft  in  them9 
fix  inches  deep  at  the  top,  and  three  wide,  as  expreffed  at 
HH  in  the  pot,  and  to  let  the  fmoke  through  at  HH  in  the 
flues. 

EE,  Carried  from  there  through  the  back  wall  to  the 
kitchen  chimnev,  as  expreffed  in  the  lower  plan. 

FF,  Back  wall 

G,  The  chimney  breaft,  betwixt  which  and  the  back  wall 
the  fteam  rifes,  and  goes  off  into  the  kitchen  chimney  by  a 
vent  made  into  it. 

HH,  Vents  in  the  pot. 
i  II,  Draughts  for  the  fires,  and  to  receive  the  afhes. 

The  fcale  will  give  the  dimenfions. 


THE   EXPERIENCED 


Englifh  Houfe-Keeper. 


-^ 


CHAP     I. 
??       Obfcr  vat  ions  on  Soups, 


«PTOEN  yon  make  any  kind  of  foups, 
5»rf  waS  Part*cll'arb'  portable,  vermicelli,  or 
'  W  ta^  brown  gravy  ioup,  or  any  other  that 
:as  roots  or  herbs  in,  always  obferve 
k.r£  )£?£)§(  jh/  to  lay  your  meat  in  the  bottom  of 
your  pan  with  a  good  lump  of  butter;  cut  the 
herbs  and  roots  fmall,  lay  them  over  your  meat, 
cover  it  clofe,  let  it  over  a  very  flow  fire,  it 
will  draw  all  the  virtue  out  of  the  roots  or 
herbs,  and  turn  it  to  a  good  gravy,  and  give 
the  ioup  a  very  different  flavour  from  putting 
water  in  at  the  firft  :  when  your  gravy  is  al- 
moft  dried  up  fill  your  pan  with  water,  when  it 
begins  to  boil  take  off  the  fat,  and  follow  the 
directions  of  your  receipt  for  what  fort  of  foup 
you  are  making:  when  you  make  old  peas 
foup  take  foft  water,  for  green  peas  hard  is 
the  beft,  it  keeps  the  peas  a  better  colour  : 
when  you  make  any  white  foup  don't  put  in 
cream  till  you  take  it  off  the  fire :  always 
dim  up   your  foups   the  laft  thing  >  if  it  be  a 

B  gravy 


2  THE    EXPERIENCED 

ibup  will  fkin  over  if  you  let  it  ftand ; 
if  it  be  a  peas  ibup  it  often  fettles,  and  the  top 
looks  thin. 

To  make  Portable  Soup  for  Travellers. 

TAKE  three  large  legs  of  veal,  and  one  of 
beef,  the  lean  part  of  half  a  ham,  cut  them  in 
ftnall  pieces,  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  ot  but- 
ter at  the  bottom  of  a  large  cauldron,  then  lay 
in  the  meat  and  bones,  with  four  ounces  of 
lovies,  two  ounces  of  mace,  cut  off  the 
gree*:  leaves  r  five  or  fix  heads  of  celery,  wafh 
the'.:  Is  quite  clean,  cat  them  fmall,  puC  the 
in  with  three  large  carrots  cut  thin,  cover  the 
n  cloie,  and  fci  it  over  a  moderate  fire  $ 
when  you  find  the  gravy  begins  to  draw,  keep 
taking  it  up  till  you  have  get  it  all  out,  then 
put  water  in  to  cover  the  meat,  fet  it  on  the  fire 
again  and  let  it  boil  flowly  for  four  hours, 
then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  neve  into  a  clean 
hi  three  y9  then  ftrain 

lat  you  drew   from   the  meat  into 
the  pen,  let  it  boil  gently   'and  keep  fcumming 
s  :  very   clean   as  it  rifes)    till  it  looks 
thick  like  glue  ;  you  mult  take  great  care  when 
it  is  near  a   that  it  don't  burn;   put  in 

Libyan  pepper  to  your  tafte,  then   pour  it   on 
earthen        its,  a  cuaiter  of  an  inch  thick, 
I  till  the  next  day,  and  cut  it  cut 
h   round   tins  a   little   larger  than  a  crown 
:e;   lay  the  cakes  on  dimes,  and  fet  them  in 
the  fun  to  dry  y  this  foup  will  ft  to  be 

made  in  frofty  weather  ;  when  the  cakes  are  cry, 
put  them  in  a  tin  box  with  writing  paper  be- 
2  twixt 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       , 

twixt  every  cake,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  ; 
this  is  a  very  ufeful  foup  to  be  kept  in  gen  de- 
men's  families,  for  by  pouring  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water  on  one  cake,  and  a  little  it  will 
make  a  good  I  -roth.  A  little  boili 
water    poured    on    ::    "                :.  for  a 

..-     or  fov  let- 
ter.  1  ~.  B.     Be  careful  to  keep  turning  the 

:S  as  they  dry. 

7/  make  a  7:  lRENT    3ouP. 

TAKE   a  i  cut  off  the  meat 

as  thin  as  when  you  all 

the  meat  dec  break  the  bone 

in  (mall  pieces,  put  tl  :  in  a  large  ju 

the  bones  at  top,  with  a  hunch  of  fweet  ha 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  cf  mace,       If  a  pound 
of  Jordan    all  and   ':.;.:    E    ?, 

p:ur  on  it  four  quarts  of  boiling  water,  let  it 

ftand  all  night  bv   the   fire   covered   clofe,   the 

_ 

next  day  put  it  into  a  well  ti  - :   - . 

let  it  boil  liowh'  till  i  laced  to  two  c  .     I  s ; 

be  fure  you  take 

all  the  time  it  is  boiling     ft 

bowl,  let  it  fettle  :  -  it  into 

a  clean   lauce-  pan  .if 

any  at  the  bottom  ;   have  re:c; 

rice   boiled  in   water:  ;  ..   like    een 

better,  boil  r  ices,   when   enough,    put  it 

in  and  ferve  it  up. 

7.  Hare 

CUT   a  large  eld  hare 
put  it  in  a  mug  three   I  e,  a 

B  2  little 


4  THE    EXPERIENCED 

little  fait,  two  large  onions,  one  red  herring, 
fix  morels,  half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  three 
quarts  of  water,  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  three 
hours,  than  ftrain  it  into  a  toffing-pan,  have 
ready  boiled  three  ounces  of  French  barley,  or 
fago,  in  water ;  fcald  the  liver  of  the  hare  in 
boiling  water  two  minutes ;  rub  it  through  a 
hair  fieve  with  the  back  of  a  wooden  fpoon,  put 
it  into  the  foup  with  the  barley  or  fago,  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  fet  it  over  the  fire, 
keep  ftirring  it  but  don't  let  it  boil ;  if  you 
don't  like  liver,  put  in  crifped  bread  fteeped  in 
red  wine.  This  is  a  rich  foup,  and  proper  for 
a  large  entertainment ;  and  where  two  foups  are 
required,  almond  or  onion  foup  for  the  top,  and 
the  hare  foup  for  the  bottom. 

To  make  a  rich  Vermicelli  Soup* 

INTO  a  large  toffing-pan  put  four  ounces 
of  butter,  cut  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  a  fcrag 
of  mutton  into  fmall  pieces,  about  the  fize  of 
walnuts  j  flice  in  the  meat  of  a  {hank  of  ham, 
with  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  two  or 
three  carrots,  two  parfnips,  two  large  onions, 
with  a  clove  ftuck  in  at  each  end,  cut  in  four 
or  five  heads  of  celery  warned  clean,  a  bunch 
of  fweet  herbs,  eight  or  ten  morels,  and  an  an- 
chovy ;  cover  the  pan  clofe  up,  and  fet  it  over  a 
flow  fire,  without  any  water,  till  the  gravy  is 
drawn  out  of  the  meat,  then  pour  the  gravy  out 
into  a  pot  cr  bafon,  let  the  meat  brown  in  the 
fame  pan,  and  take  care  it  don't  burn,  then 
pour  in  four  quarts  of  water,  let  it  boil  gently 
till  it  is  wafted  to  three  pints,  then  ftrain  it,  and 

put 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  5 
put  the  other  gravy  to  it,  fet  it  on  the  fire,  add 
to  it  two  ounces  of  vermicelli,  cut  the  niceft 
part  of  ahead  of  celery,  Chyan  pepper  and  fait, 
to  your  tafte,  and  let  it  boil  for  four  minutes  5 
if  not  a  good  colour,  put  in  a  little  browning,  lay 
a  fmall  French  roil  in  the  foup  di(h,  pour  in 
the  foup  upon  it,  and  lay  fome  of  the  vermicelli 
over  it. 

To  make  an  Ox  Cheek  Soup. 

FIRST  break  the  bones  of  an  ox  cheek, 
and  wafh  it  in  many  waters,  then  lay  it  in  warm 
water,  throw  in  a  little  fait  to  fetch  out  the 
flime,  warn  it  out  very  well,  than  take  a  large 
ftew-pan,  put  two  ounces  of  butter  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  and  lay  the  flefh  fide  of  the 
cheek  down,  add  to  it  half  a  pound  of  a  fhank 
of  ham  cut  in  flices,  and  four  heads  of  celery, 
pull  off  the  leaves,  warn  the  heads  clean,  and 
cut  them  in  with  three  large  onions,  two  car- 
rots, and  one  parfnip  fliced,  a  few  beets  cut 
fmall,  and  three  blades  of  mace,  fet  it  over  a 
moderate  fire  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  this  draws 
the  virtue  from  the  roots,  which  gives  a  pleafant 
ftrength  to  the  gravy. 

I  have  made  a  good  gravy  by  this  method, 
with  roots  and  butter,  only  adding  a  little 
browning  to  give  it  a  pretty  colour :  when  the 
head  has  fimmered  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put  to  it 
fix  quarts  of  water,  and  let  it  ftew  till  it  is  re- 
duced to  two  quarts  :  if  you  would  have  it  eat 
like  foup,  ftrain  and  take  out  the  meat  and 
other  ingredients,  and  put  in  the  white  part  of  a 
head  of  celery  cut  in  fmall  pieces,  with  a  little 

B  3  browning 


6  THE   EXPERIENCED 

browning  to  make  it  a  fine  colour,  take  two 
ounces  of  vermicelli,  give  it  a  fcald  in  the  foup, 
and  put  the  top  of  a  French  roll  in  the  middle 
of  a  tureen,   and  ferve  it  up. 

If  you  would  have  it  eat  like  flew,  take  up 
the  face  as  whole  as  pofTible,  and  have  ready 
cut  in  fquare  pieces,  a  boiled  turnip  and  carrot, 
a  Dice  of  bread  toafted  and  cut  in  fmall  dices, 
put  in  a  little  Chyan  pepper,  and  {train  the  foup 
through  a  hair  fieve  upon  the  meat,  carrot,  tur~ 
nip,  and  bread,  to  ferve  it  up. 

To  /^  Almond  Soup. 

TAKE  a  neck  of  veal,  and  the  fcrag  end 
of  a  neck  of  mutton,  chop  them  in  fmall  pieces, 
put  them  in  a  large  tolling  pan,  cut  in  a  turnip, 
with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  five  quarts  of 
water,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  gently 
till  it  is  reduced  to  two  quarts,  ftrain  it  through 
a  hair  fieve  into  a  clear  pot,  then  put  in  fix 
ounces  of  almonds  blanched  arid  beat  fine,  half 
a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  Chyan  pepper  to 
your  tafte,  have  ready  three  fmall  French  rolls, 
made  for  that  purpofe,  the  iize  of  a  fmall  tea- 
cup ;  if  they  are  larger  they  will  not  look  well, 
and  drink  up  too  much  of  the  foup ;  blanch  a 
few  Jordan  almonds,  and  cut  them  lengthways, 
flick  them  round  the  edge  of  the  rolls  flant- 
ways,  then  fcick  them  all  over  the  top  of  the 
rolls,  an  I  put  them  in  the  tureen  ;  when  diihed 
up  pour  the  foup  upon  the  rolls  :  thefe  rolls 
look  like  a  hedge-hog:  fome  French  cooks  give 
this  foup  the  name  of  .hedge-hog  foup. 

To 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       7 

To  make  Soup  a-la-reine* 

TAKE  a  knuckle  of  veal,  and  three  or  four 
pounds  of  lean  beef,  put  to  it  fix  quarts  of  water 
with  a  little  fait,  when  it  boils  fcum  it  well, 
then  put  in  fix  large  onions,  two  large  carrots,  a 
head  or  two  of  celery,  a  parfnip,  one  leek,  and 
a  little  thyme,  boil  them  all  together  till  the  meat 
is  boiled  quite  down,  then  drain  it  through  a  hair 
iieve,  and  let  it  ftand  about  half  an  hour,  then 
fcum  it  well,  and  clear  it  off  gently  from  the  fet- 
tlings  into  a  clear  pan ;  boil  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
and  pour  it  on  the  crumbs  of  a  half-penny  loaf, 
and  let  it  foak  well ;  take  half  a  pound  of  al- 
monds, blanch  and  beat  them  as  fine  as  poflible, 
putting  in  now  and  then .$  little  cream  to  pre- 
vent them  from  oiling,  then  take  the  yolks  of 
fix  hard  eggs,  and  the  roll  that  is  foaked  in  the 
cream,  and  beat  them  all  together  quite  fine, 
then  make  your  broth  hot  and  pour  it  to  your 
almonds,  {train  it  through  a  fine  hair  iieve,  rub- 
bing it  with  a  ipoon  till  all  the  goodnefs  is  gone 
through  into  a  ftew-pan,  and  add  more  cream  to 
make  it  white;  fet  it  over  the  fire,  keep  flirring 
it  till  it  boils,  fcum  off  the  froth  as  it  rifes, 
foak  the  tops  of  two  Frei\  h  rolls  in  melted  but- 
ter in  a  ftew-pan  till  they  aie  crifp,  but  not 
brown,  then  take  them  out  of  the  butter,  and 
lay  them  on  a  plate  before  the  fire  ;  and,  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  before  you  fend  it  to  the 
table  take  a  little  of  the  foup  hot,  and  put  it 
to  the  roll  in  the  bottom  of  the  tureen,  put 
your  foup  on  the  fire,  keep  flirring  it  till  ready 
to  boil,  then  pour  it  into  your  tureen,  and  ierve 

B  4  it 


3  THE  EXPERIENCED 

it  up  hot ;  be  fure  you  take  all  the  fat.  off  the 
broth  before  you  put  it  to  the  almonds,  or  it  will 
fpoil  it,  and  take  care  it  does  not  curdle. 

To  make  Onion  Soup. 

BOIL  eight  or  ten  large  Spanifh  onions  In 
milk  and  water,  change  it  three  times,  when 
they  are  quite  foft,  rub  them  through  a  hair 
fieve,  cut  an  old  cock  in  pieces,  and  boil  it  for 
gravy  with  one  blade  of  mace,  drain  it,  and 
pour  it  upon  the  pulp  of  the  onions,  boil  it 
gently  with  the  crumb  of  an  old  penny  loaf, 
grated  into  half  a  pint  of  cream;  add  Chyan 
pepper  and  fait  to  your  tafte :  a  few  heads  of 
afparagus  or  ftewed  fpinage,  both  make  it  eat 
well  and  look  very  pretty  :  grate  a  crufl  of 
brown  bread  round  the  edge  of  the  difh. 

To  make  White  Onion  Soup. 

TAKE  thirty  large  onions,  boil  them  in  five 
quarts  of  water  with  a  knuckle  of  veal,  a  blade 
or  two  of  mace,  and  a  little  whole  pepper;  when 
your  onions  are  quite  foft  take  them  up,  and 
rub  them  through  a  hair  fieve,  and  work  half  a 
pound  of  butter  wTith  flour  in  them;  when  the 
meat  is  boiled  fo  as  to  leave  the  bone,  flrain  the 
liquor  to  the  onions,  and  boil  it  gently  for  half 
an  hour,  ferve  it  up  with  a  coffee  cup  full  of 
cream  and  a  little  fait,  be  fure  you  ftir  it  when 
you  put  in  the  flour  and- butter,  for  fear  of  its 
burning. 


To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.         9 

To  make  Brown  Onion  Soup. 

SKIN  and  cut  round  ways  in  flices  fix  large 
Spanifh  onions,  fry  them  in  butter  till  they  are 
a  nice  brown,  and  very  tender,  then  take  them 
out  and  lay  them  on  a  hair  fieve  to  drain  out  the 
butter,  when  drained  put  them  in  a  pot  with 
five  quarts  of  boiling  water,  boil  them  one  hour 
and  ftir  them  often,  then  add  pepper  and  fait  to 
your  tafte,  rub  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf 
through  a  cullender,  put  it  to  the  foup,  ftir  it 
well  to  keep  it  from  being  in  lumps,  and  boil  it 
two  hours  more  ;  ten  minutes  before  you  fend  it 
up  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  with  two  fpoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  of  the  foup,  pour  it 
in  by  degrees,  and  keep  ftirring  it  all  the  time 
one  way,  put  in  a  few  cloves  if  you  choofe  it. — - 
N.  B.  It  is  a  fine  foup,  and  will  keep  three  or 
four  days. 

To  make  Green  Peas  Soup. 

SHELL  a  peck  of  peas,  and  boil  them  in 
fpring  water  till  they  are  foft,  then  work  them 
through  a  hair  fieve,  take  the  water  that  your 
peas  were  boiled  in,  and  put  in  a  knuckle  of 
veal,  three  flices  of  ham,  and  cut  two  carrots, 
a  turnip,  and  a  few  beet  leaves  fhred  frnall, 
add  a  little  more  water  to  the  meat,  fet  it  over 
the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  one  hour  and  a  half; 
then  ftrain  the  gravy  into  a  bowl  and  mix  it 
with  the  pulp,  and  put  in  a  little  juice  of  fpi- 
nage,  which  mult  be  beat  and  fqueezed  through 
a  cloth,  put  in  as  much  as  will  make  it  look  a 

5  Pretty 


io  THE    EXPERIENCED 

pretty  colour,  then  give  it  a  gentle  boil,  which 
will  take  off  the  tafle  of  the  fpinage,  fiice  in 
the  waited  part  of  a  head  of  celery,  put  in. a 
lump  of  fugar  the  fize  of  a  walnut,  take  a  flice 
of  bread  and  cut  it  in  little  fquare  pieces,  cut 
a  little  bacon  the  fame  way,  fry  them  a  light 
brown  in  frefh  butter,  cut  a  large  cabbage  lettuce 
in  ilices,  fry  it  after  the  other,  put  it  in  the  tu- 
reen with  the  fried  bread  and  bacon  :  have 
ready  boiled  as  for  eating  a  pint  of  young 
peas,  and  put  them  in  the  foup,  with  a  little 
chopped  mint  if  you  like  it,  and  pour  it  into 
your  tureen. 

To  make  a  Common  Peas  Soup. 

TO  one  quart  of  fplit  peas  put  four  quarts  of 
foft  water,  a  little  lean  bacon,  or  roaft  beef 
bones,  warn  one  head  of  celery,  cut  it  and  put 
it  in  with  a  turnip,  boil  it  till  reduced  to  two 
quarts,  then  work  it  through  a  cullendar,  with 
a  wooden  fpoon,  mix  a  little  flour  and  water, 
and  boil  it  well  in  the  ib up,  and  ilice  in  another 
head  of  celery,  chyan  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
tafle;  cut  a  ilice  of  bread  in  fmall  dice,  fry 
them  a  light  brown,  and  put  them  in  your  dilh, 
then  pour  the  foup  upon  it. 

To  make  a  Peas  Sou  v  for  Lent. 

PUT  three  pints  of  blue  boiling  peas  into 
five  quarts  of  foft  cold  water,  three  anchovies, 
three  red  herrings,  and  two  large  onions,  flick 
in  a  clove  at  each  end,  a  carrot  and  a  parfnip 
lilted  in,    with   a  bunch   of  fweet  herbs,    boil 

them 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       it 

them  all  together,  till  the  foup  is  thick,  flrain 
it  through  a  cullendar,  then  flice  in  the  white 
part  of  a  head  of  celery,  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
a  little  pepper  and  fait,  a  flice  of  bread  toafled  and 
buttered  well,  and  cut  in  little  diamonds,  put 
it  into  the  difh,  and  pour  the  foup  upon  it, 
and  a  little  dried  mint  if  you  choofe  it. 

Gravy  Soup   thickened  with  Yellow  Peas. 

PUT  a  fhin  of  beef  to  fix  quarts  of  water, 
with  a  pint  of  peas  and  fix  onions,  fet  them 
over  the  fire,  and  let  them  boil  gently  till  all  the 
juice  be  out  of  the  meat,  then  it  rain  it  through 
a  fieve,  add  to  the  ftrained  liquor  one  quart  of 
ftrong  gravy  to  make  it  Drown,  put  in  pepper 
and  fait  to  your  tafte,  then  put  in  a  little  celery, 
and  beet  leaves,  and  boil  it  till  they  are  tender. 

"To  make  a  White  Peas  Soup. 

TO  four  or  five  pounds  of  lean  beef  and  fix 
quarts  of  water  put  in  a  little  fait,  when  it  boils 
fcum  it,  and  put  in  two  carrots,  three  whole 
onions,  a  little  thyme,  and  two  heads  of  celery, 
with  threequarts  of  old  green  peas,  boil  them  till 
the  meat  is  quite  tender,  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  hair  fieve,  and  rub  the  pulp  of  the  peas 
through  the  fieve,  fpiit  the  blanched  part  of 
three  gofs  lettuces  into  four  quarters,  and  cut 
them  about  one  inch  long,  with  a  little  mint 
cut  frnall,  then  put  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a 
flew  pan  that  will  hold  yofir  foup,  and  put  the 
lettuce  and  mint  into  the  butter  with  a  leek  fliced 
very  thin,  and  a  pint  of  green  peas,  flew  them 

a  quarter 


12  THE    EXPERIENCED 

a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  keep  fhaking  them 
often  about,  then  put  in  a  little  of  the  foup,  and 
ltew  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer;  then  put 
in  your  foup  and  as  much  thick  cream  as  will 
make  it  white,  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  boils  ;  fry  a 
French  roll  in  butter  a  little  crifp,  put  it  in  the 
bottom  of  the  tureen,  and  pour  your  foup  over  it, 

To  make  Green  Peas  Soup  without  "Meat. 

IN  (helling  your  peas  feparate  the  old  ones 
from  the  young, and  boil  theold  ones  foft  enough 
to  ftrain  through  a  cullendar,  then  put  the  liquor 
and  what  you  -{trained  through  to  the  young 
peas,  which  muft  be  whole,  and  fome  whole 
pepper,  mint,  a  little  onion  fhred  fmall,  put 
them  in  a  large  fauce-pan,  with  near  a  pound  of 
butter*  as  they  boil  up  {hake  in  fome  flour, 
then  put  in  a  French  roll  fried  in  butter,  to  the 
foup  ;'  you  muft  feafon  it  to  your  tafte  with  fait, 
and  herbs,  when  you  have  done  fo,  add  the 
young  peas  to  it,  which  muft  be  half  boiled 
iirft ;  you  may  leave  out  the  flour  if  you  don't 
like  it,  and  inftead  of  it  put  in  a  little  fpinage, 
and  cabbage  lettuce,  cut  fmall,  which  muft  be 
firft  fried  in  butter,  and  well  mixed  with  the 
broth. 

To  make  an  excellent  White  Soup. 

TO  fix  quarts  of  water  put  in  a  knuckle  of 
veal,  a  large  fowl,  and  a  pound  of  lean  bacon, 
and  half  a  pound  of  rice,  with  two  anchovies, 
a  few  pepper  corns,  two  or  three  onions,  a 
bundle  of  fweet  herbs,   three  cr  four  heads  of 

celery 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       13 

celery  in  ilices,  ftew  all  together,  till  your  foup  is 
as  ftrong  as  you  choofe  it,  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  hair  fieve  into  a  clean  earthen  pot,  let  it  ftand 
all  night,  then  take  off  the  fcum,  and  pour  it 
clear  off  into  a  tofiing  pan,  put  in  half  a  pound 
of  Jordan  almonds  beat  fine,  boil  it  a  little  and 
run  it  through  a  lawn  fieve,  then  put  in  a  pint 

of  cream  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. Make  it 

hot,  and  fend  it  to  the  table. 

To  make  White  Soup  a  fecond  Way. 

BOIL  a  knuckle  of  veal  and  a  fowl,  with  a 
little  mace,  two  onions,  a  little  pepper  and  fait, 
to  a  ftrong  jelly,  then  ftrain  it  and  fcum  off  all 
the  fat,  have  ready  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  well 
beat,  put  them  in  and  keep  ftirring  it  or  it  will 
curdle,  put  it  in  yourdifh  with  boiled  chickens 
and  toafted  bread  cut  in  pieces;  if  you  do  not 
like  the  eggs,  you  may  put  in  a  large  handful  of 
vermicelli  half  an  hour  before  you  take  it  off 
the  fire. 

To  make  Craw-Fish  Soup. 

BOIL  half  a  hundred  of  frefh  craw-fifh, 
pick  out  all  the  meat,  which  you  muft  fave,  take 
a  frefh  lobfter  and  pick  out  all  the  meat,  which 
you  muft  likewife  fave,  pound  the  fhells  of  the 
craw-fifh  and  lobfter  fine  in  a  marble  mortar* 
and  boil  them  in  four  quarts  of  water  with  four 
pounds  of  mutton,  a  pint  of  green  fplit  peas, 
nicely  picked  and  wafhed,  a  large  turnip,  car- 
rot, onion,  mace,  cloves,  anchovy,  a  little 
thyme,  pepper,  and  fait.     Stew  them  on  allow 

fire 


14         THE  EXPERIENCED 

fire  till  all  the  goodnefs  is  out  of  the  mutton 
and  {hells,  then  drain  it  through  a  fieve,  and 
put  in  the  tails  of  your  craw-fifh  and  the  lob- 
fier  meat,  but  in  very  fmall  pieces,  with  the 
red  coral  of  the  lobfter,  if  it  has  any  •>  boil  it 
half  an  hour,  and  jud  before  you  ferve  it  up, 
add  a  little  butter  melted  thick  and  fmooth,  ftir 
it  round  feveral  times,  when  you  put  it  in, 
fend  it  up  very  hot,  but  don't  put  too  much 
fpice  in  it. — — -JV.  B.  Pick  out  all  the  bags  and 
the  woolly  part  of  your  craw-fifh  before  you 
pound  them. 

T'o  make  Partridge  Soup. 

TAKE  off  the  fkins  of  two  old  partridges,, 
cut  them  into  fmall  pieces  with  three  flices  of 
ham,  two  or  three  onions  fliced  and  fome  ce- 
lery, fry  them  in  butter  till  they  are  as  brown 
as  they  can  be  made  without  burning,  then  put 
them  into  three  quarts  of  water  with  a  few 
pepper  corns,  boil  it  flowly  till  a  little  more  than 
a  pint  is  confumcd,  then  (train  it,  put  in  fome 
ftewed  celery  and  fried  bread. 


C  H  A  P.      II, 
Observation?  on  Dressing  Fish. 

WHEN  you  fry  any  kind  of  fifTi,  wa(h 
them  clean,  dry  them  well  with  a  cloth, 
and  dull  them  with  flour,  or  rub  them  with  egg 
suid    bread  crumbs;    be   fure    your    dripping, 

hog's- 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       15 

hog's-lard,  or  beef  fuet,  is  boiling  before  you  put 
in  your  fifh,  they  will  fry  hard  and  clear,  butter  ' 
is  apt  to  burn  them  black,  and  make  them  foft ; 
when  you  have  fried  your  fifh,  always  lay  them 
in  a  dim  or  hair  fieve  to  drain,  before  you  difh 
them  up;  boiled  fi(h  mould  always  be  warned 
and  rubbed  carefully  with  a  little  vinegar,  be- 
fore they  are  put  into  the  water;  boil  ali  kinds 
of  fi(h  very  (lowly,  and  when  they  will  leave 
the  bone  they  are  enough  -y  when  you  take  them 
up  fet  your  fifh  plate  over  a  pan  of  hot  water 
to  drain,  and  cover  it  with  a  cloth  or  clofe 
cover,  to  prevent  it  from  turning  their  colour; 
fet  your  fim-plate  in  the  in  fide  of  your  dilh, 
and  fend  it  up,  and  when  you  fry  parfley,  be 
fure  you  pick  it  nicely,  wafli  it  well,  then  dip 
it  in  cold  water,  and  throw  it  into  a  pan  of 
boiling  fat,  take  it  out  immediately,  it  will  be 
very  crifp  and  a  fine  green. 

To  drefs  a  Turtle  of  a  hundred  Weight. 

CUT  oft  the  head,  take  care  of  the  blood, 
and  take  off  all  the  fins,  lay  them  in  fait  and 
water,  cut  off  the  bottom  ihell,  then  cut  off 
the  meat  that  grows  to  it,  (which  is  the  callepee 
or  fowl)  take  out  the  hearts,  livers,  and  lights, 
and  put  them  by  themielves,  take  out  the  bones 
and  the  flefih  out  of  the  back  ihell  (whi  h  is  the 
callepath)  cut  the  fleftiypart  into  pieces,  about 
two  inches  iquare,  but  leave  the  fat  part,  whkh 
looks  green,  (it  is  called  the  moniieur)  rub  it 
firft  with  fair,  and  wain  it  in  feveral  waters  to 
make  it  come  clean,  then  put  in  the  pieces- that 
you  took  out,  with   three    bottles  or    Madeira 

w  me* 


16  THE    EXPERIENCED 

wine,  and  four  quarts  of  flrong  veal  gravy,  a 
lemon  cut  in  flices,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  a 
tea-fpoonful  of  Chyan,  fix  anchovies  wafhed  and 
picked  clean,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beaten 
mace,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  mufhroom  powder, 
and  half  a  pint  of  effence  of  ham  if  you  have 
it,  lay  over  it  a  coarfe  parte,  fet  it  in  the  oven 
for  three  hours;  when  it  comes  out,  take  off  the 
lid  and  fcum  off  theTat,  and  brown  it  with  a 
falarnander. — This  is  the  bottom  difv. 

Then  blanch  the  fins,  cut  them  off  at  the 
firfl  joint,  fry  the  firft  pinions  a  fine  brown,  and 
put  them  into  a  tolling  pan  with  two  quarts  of 
flrong  brown  gravy,  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  and 
the  blood  of  the  turtle,  a  large  fpoonful  of  le- 
mon pickle,  the  fame  of  browning,  two  fpoon- 
fuls  of  mufhroom  catchup,  Chyan  and  fait,  an 
onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  and  a  bunch  of  fweet 
herbs;  a  little  before  it  is  enough,  put  in  an 
ounce  of  morels,  the  fame  of  [ruffles,  flew 
them  gently  over  a  flow  fire  for  two  hours ; 
when  they  are  tender,  put  them  into  another 
toffing  pan,  thicken  your  gravy  with  flour  and 
butter  and  flrain  it  upon  them,  give  them  a 
boil  and  ferve  them  up. This  is  a  corner 

jijh. 

Then  take  the  thick  or  large  part  of  the  fins, 
blanch  them  in  warm  water,  and  put  them  in  a 
toiling  pan,  with  three  quarts  of  flrong  veal 
gravy,  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  half  a  tear 
ipoonful  of  Chyan,  a  little  fait,  half  a  lemon, 
a  little  beaten  mace,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  muih- 
room  powder,  and  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs  ;  let 
them  ftew  till  quite  tender,  they  will  take  two 

hours 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       17 

hours  at  leaft,  then  take  them  up  into  another 
toffing  pan,  ftrain  your  gravy,  and  make  it 
pretty  thick  with  flour  and  butter,  then  put  in 
a  few  boiled  forcemeat  balls,  which  muft  be 
made  of  the  veally  part  of  your  turtle,  left  out 
for  thatpurpofe;  one  pint  of  f re fh  mufhrooms, 
if  you  cannot  get  them  pickled  ones  will  do, 
and  eight  artichoke  bottoms  boiled  tender,  and 
cut  in  quarters,  (hake  them  over  the  fire  five  or 
fix  minutes,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  thick 
cream,  with  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  beaten  ex- 
ceeding well,  make  it  over  the  fire  again  till  it 
looks  thick  and  white,  but  do  not  let  it  boils 
dim  up  your  fins  with  the  balls,  mufhrooms, 
and  artichoke-bottoms  over  and  round  them. 
« This  is  the  top  dijh. 

Then  take  the  chicken  part,  and  cut  it  like 
Scotch  collops,  fry  them  a  light  brown,  then 
put  in  a  quart  of  veal  gravy,  iiew  them  gently 
a  little  more  than  half  an  hour,  and  put  to  it 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  a  few  mo- 
rels, a  fcore  of  oyfters;  thicken  your  gravy,  it 
muft  be  neither  white  nor  brown,  but  a  pretty 
gravy  colour ;  fry  fome  oyfter  patties  and  lay 

round  it. *ihis  is  a  corner  difh  to  anfwer  the 

fmalljins. 

Then  take  the  guts  (which  is  reckoned  the 
beft  part  of  the  turtle)  rip  them  open,  fcrape 
and  warn  them  exceeding  well,  rub  them  well 
with  fait,-  wafh  them  through  many  waters, 
and  cut  them  in  pieces  two  inches  long,  then 
fcald  the  maw  or  paunch,  take  off  the  fkin, 
fcrape  it  well,  cut  it  into  pieces  about  half  an 
inch  broad  and  two  inches  long,  put  fome  of 

C  the 


iff  THE   EXPERIENCED 

the  fifhy  part  of  your  turtle  in  it,  fet  it  over  a 
flow  charcoal  fire,  with  two  quarts  of  veal 
gravy,  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  a  little  mufh- 
room  catchup,  a  few  fhalots,  a  little  Chyan, 
half  a  lemon,  and  flew  them  gently  four  hours, 
till  your  gravy  is  almoft  confumed,  then  thick- 
en it  with  flour,  mixed  with  a  little  veal  gravy, 
put  in  half  an  ounce  of  morels,  a  few  force- 
meat balls,  made  as  for  the  fins;  difh  it  up,  and 

brown  it  with  a  falamander,  or  in  the  oven. 

This  is  the  corner  dijh. 

Then  take  the  head,  fkin  it,  and  cut  it  in  two 
pieces,  put  it  into  a  ftew-pot  with  all  the  bones, 
hearts,  and  lights,  to  a  gallon  of  water,  or 
veal  broth,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  one 
fhalot,  a  flice  of  beef  beaten  to  pieces,  and  a 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  fet  them  in  a  very  hot 
oven,  and  let  it  ftand  an  hour  at  leaft,  when  it 
comes  out  flrain  it  into  a  tureen  for  the  middle 
of  the  table. 

Then  take  the  hearts  and  lights,   chop  them 

very  fine,  put  them  in  a  fiew-pan  with  a  pint 

*  of  good  gravy,  thicken  it  and  ferve  it  up ;  lay 

the  head  in  the  middle,  fry  the  liver,    lay  it 

round  the  head  upon  the  lights,  garnifh  with 

whole  flices  of  lemon.1 This  is  the  fourth 

corner  dijh. 

N.  B.  The  firfl:  courfe  fhould  be  of  turtle  only, 
when  it  is  drefTed  in  this  manner:  but  when  it  is 
with  other  victuals,  it  inould  be  in  three  different 
dillies,  but  this  way  I  have  often  drefTed  theni, 
and  have  given  great  fatisfacTion.  Obferve  to  kill 
your  turtle  the  night  before  you  want  it,  or  very 
early  next  morning,  that  you  may  haVeall  your 

difhqs 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       19 

diflies  going  on  at  a  time.  Gravy  for  a  turtle 
a  hundred  weight,  will  take  two  legs  of  veal,  and 
two  fhanks  of  beef. 

2~0  drefs  a  Turtle  about  thirty  pounds  weight. 

WHEN  you  kill  the  turtle,  which  muft  be 
done  the  night  before,  cut  off  the  head,  and  let 
it  bleed  two  or  three  hours,  then  cut  off  the 
fins  and  the  callipee  from  the  callipafh,  take  care 
you  do  not  burn:  the  gall,  throw  all  the  inwards 
into  cold  water,  the  guts  and  tripe  keep  by 
themfelves,  and  flit  them  open  with  a  penknife, 
and  wafh  them  very  clean  in  fcalding  water, 
and  fcrape  off  all  the  inward  fkin;  as  you  do 
them  throw  them  into  cold  water,  wafh  them 
out  of  that,  and  put  them  into  frefh  water,  and 
let  them  lie  all  night,  fcalding  the  fins  and  edges 
of  the  callipafh  and  callipee;  cut  the  meat  off 
the  fhoulders  and  hack  the  bones,  and  fet  them 
over  the  fire  with  the  fins  in  about  a  quart  of 
water,  put  in  a  little  mace,  nutmeg,  Chyan, 
and  fait,  let  it  ftew  about  three  hours,  then 
ftrain  it  and  put  the  fins  by  for  ufe,  the  next 
morning  take  fome  of  the  meat  you  cut  off  the 
fhoulders,  and  chop  it  fmall  as  for  faufages, 
with  about  a  pound  of  beef  or  veal  fuet,  fea- 
foned  with  mace,  nutmeg,  fweet-marjoram, 
parfley,  Chyan,  and  fait  to  your  tafte,  and  three 
or  four  glaffes  of  Madeira  wine,  £0  fluff  it  un- 
der the  two  fiefhy  parts  of  the  meat,  and  if  you 
have  any  left,  lay  it  over  to  prevent  the  meat 
from  burning,  then  cut  the  remainder  of  the 
meat  and  the  fins  in  pieces  the  fize  of  an  e°-p*. 

^  2  feafon 


io  THE    EXPERIENCED 

feafon  it  pretty  high  with  Chyan,  fait,  and  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  put  it  into  thecallipafh,  take 
care  that  it  be  fewed  or  fecured  up  &t  the  end, 
to  keep  in  the  gravy,  then  boil  up  the  gravy, 
and  add  more  wine  if  required,  and  thicken  it 
a  little  with  butter  and  flour,  put  fome  of*  it  to 
the  turtle,  and  fet  it  in  the  oven  with  a  well 
buttered  paper  over  it  to  keep  it  from  burning, 
and  when  it  is  about  half  baked  fqueeze  in  the 
juice  of  one  or  two  lemons  and  ftir  it  up.  Cal- 
lipafh  or  back  will  take  half  an  hour  more  bake- 
ing  than  the  callipee,  which  two  hours  will  do; 
the  guts  muft  be  cut  in  pieces  two  or  three  inches 
long,  the  tripe  in  lefs,  and  put  into  a  mug  of 
clear  water,  and  fet  in  the  oven  with  the  cal- 
lipafh,  and  when  it  is  enough  and  drained  from 
the  water,  it  is  to  be  mixed  with  the  other  parts 
and  fent  up  very  hot. 

To  drefs  a  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders. 

TAKE  out  the  gills  and  the  blood  clean 
from  the  bone,  warn  the  head  very  clean,  rub 
over  it  a  little  fait,  and  a  glafs  of  allegar,  then 
lay  it  on  your  fifh  plate;  when  your  water 
boils  throw  in  a  good  handful  of  fait,  with 
a  glafs  of  allegar,  then  put  in  your  fifh,  and 
let  it  boil  gently  half  an  hour  ;  if  it  is  a  large 
one  three  quarters;  take  it. up  very  carefully, 
and  ftrip  the  fkin  nicely  off,  fet  it  before  a 
brifk  fire,  dredge  it  all  over  with  flour,  and 
bafte  it  well  with  butter;  when  the  froth  begins 
to  rife,  throw  over  it  fome  very  fine  white 
bread  crumbs;  you  muft  keep  baiting  it  all  the 

time 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      hi 

time  to  make  it  froth  well  ;vwhen  it  is  a  fine 
white  brown,  dim  it  up,  and  garnifh  it  with  a 
lemon  cut  in  flices,  fcraped  horfe-radifh,  bar- 
berries, a  few  fmall  fifhfryed  and  laid  round  it, 
or  fryed  oyfters ;  cut  the  roe  and  liver  in  flices, 
and  lay  over  it  a  little  of  the  lobfter  out  of  the 
fauce  in  lumps,  and  then  ferve  it. 

To  make  Sauce' for  the  Cod's  Head, 

TAKE  a  lobfter,  if  it  be  alive  ftick  a 
fkewer  in  the  vent  of  the  tail  to  keep  the 
water  out  and  throw  an  handful  of  fait  in  the 
water,  when  it  boils  put  in  the  lobfter,  and 
boil  it  half  an  hour;  if  it  has  fpawn  on,  pick 
them  off,  and  pound  them  exceeding  fine  in  a 
marble  mortar,  and  put  them  into  half  a  pound 
of  good  melted  butter,  then  take  the  meat 
out  of  your  lobfter,  pull  it  in  bits,  and  put  it 
in  your  butter,  with  a  meat  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  and  the  fame  of  walnut  catchup,  a  flice 
of  an  end  of  a  lemon,  one  or  two  flices  of  horfe- 
radifh,  as  much  beaten  mace  as  will  lie  on  a  fix- 
pence,  fait  and  Chyan  to  your  tafte,  boil  them 
one  minute,  then  take  out  the  horfe-radifh  and 

lemon,  and  ferve  it  up  in  your  fauce-boat.- 

N.  B.  If  you  can  get  no  lobfter,  you  may  make 
fhrimp,  cockle,  or  mufcle  fauce  the  fame  way; 
if  there  can  be  no  kind  of  fhell-fifh  got,  you 
then  may  add  two  anchovies  cut  fmall,  a 
fpoonful  of  walnut  liquor,  a  large  onion  ituck 
with  cloves,  ftrain  it  and  put  it  in  the  fauce- 
boat. 

C  2  Second 


Si  THE   EXPERIENCED 

Second  way  to  drefs  a  Cod's  Head. 
TAKE  out  the  gills  and  blood  clean  from 
the  back-bone,  wafh  it  well.,  and  put  it  on  your 
plate;  when  your  water  boils,  put  in  two 
handfuls  of  fait,  and  half  a  pint  of  allegar,  it 
will  make  your  L.a  firmer,  then  put  in  the  cod's 
head;  if  it  is  of  a  middle  fize,  it  will  take  an 
hour's  boiling;  then  take  it  up,  and  ftrip  off 
the  ikin  gently,  dredge  it  well  with  flour,  and 
lay  Lumps  of  butter  on  it;  if  it  fuits  you  better, 
you  may  fend  it  to  the  oven,  and  if  it  is  not 
brown  all  over,  do  it  with  a  falamander:  make 
your  gravy  fauce  to  it,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  drefs  young  Codlins  like  Salt  Fish. 

TAKE  young  codlins,  gut  and  dry  them 
well  with  a  cloth,  fill  their  eyes  full  of  fait, 
thicw  a  little  on  the  back-bone,  and  let  them 
lie  all  night,  then  hang  them  up  by  the  tail  a 
day  or  two:  as  you  have  occafion  for  them, 
boil  them  in  fpring  water,  and  drain  them  well, 
dim  them  up,  and  pour  egg  fauce  on  them,  and 
fend  them  to  the  table. 

To  drefs  a  Salt  Cod. 

STEEP  your  fait  fim  in  water  all  night,  with 
a  glafs  of  vinegar,  it  will  fetch  out  the  fait,  and 
make  it  eat  like  frem  fim  ;  the  next  day  boil  it; 
when  it  is  enough,  pull  it  in  flakes  into  your 
dim,  then  pour  egg  fauce  over  it,  or  parinips 
boiled  and  beat  fine  with  butter  and  cream; 
fend  it  to  the  table  on  a  water  plate,  for  it  will 
foon  grow  cold. 

2  To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      23 

To  make  Egg  Sauce^  a  Salt  Cod. 
BOIL  your  eggs  hard,  firft  half  chop  the 
whites,  then  put  in  the  yolks,  and  chop  them 
both  together,  but  not  very  final!,  put  them  into 
half  a  pound  of  good  melted  butter,  and  let  it 
boil  up,  then  put  it  on  the  fifh. 

21?  drefs  Cod  Sounds. 
STEEP  your  founds  as  you  do  the  fait  cod, 
and  boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  milk  and 
water,  when  they  are  very  tender  and  white 
take  them  up,  and  drain  the  water  out,  then 
pour  the  egg  fauce  boiling  hot  over  them,  and 
lerve  them  up. 

To  drefs  Cod  Sounds  like  little  Turkeys. 

Boil  your  founds  as  for  eating,  but  not  too 
much,  take  them  up  and  let  them  ftand  till  they 
are  quite  cold,  then  take  a  forcemeat  of  chop-? 
ped  oyfters,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  lump  of  but- 
ter, nutmeg,  pepper,  fait,  and  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  fill  your  founds,  with  it,  and  fkewer 
them  up  in  the  (hape  of  a  turkey,  then  lard  them 
down  each  fide,  as  you  would  do  a  turkey's 
breaft,  dull  them  well  with  flour,  and  put  them 
in  a  tin  oven  to  roaft  before  the  fire,  and  bafte 
them  well  with  butter:  when  they  are  enough 
pour  on  them  oyfler  fauce;  three  are  fufficient  for 
a  fide  difh;  garnim  with  barberries;  it  is  a  pretty 
fide  difh  for  a  large  table,  for  a  dinner  in  Lent* 

To  boil  Salmon  Crimp, 
SCALE  your  falmon,   take  out  the  blood, 
"Vvafh  it  well,  and  lay  it  on  a  fifh-plate,  put  your 

C  4  water 


24  THE    EXPERIENCED 

water  in  a  filh-pan  with  a  little  fait :  when  it 
boils  put  in  your  fifh  for  half  a  minute,  then 
take  it  out  for  a  minute  or  two;  when  you  have 
done  it  four  times,  boil  it  until  it  be  enough; 
when  you  take  it  out  of  the  fifh-pan,  fet  it  over 
the  water  to  drain;  cover  it  well  with  a  clean 
cloth  dipped  in  hot  water;  fry  fome  fmall  fifhes, 
or  a  few  flices  of  falmon,  and  lay  round  it;  gar- 
nifh  with  fcraped  horfe-radifh  and  fennel. 

To  make  Rolled  Salmon. 

TAKE  a  fide  of  falmon  when  fplit  and  the 
bone  taken  out  and  fcaled,  flrew  over  the  infide 
pepper,  fait,  nutmeg,  and  mace,  a  few  chopped 
oyflers,  parfley,  and  crumbs  of  bread,  roll  it  up 
tight,  put  it  into  a  deep  pot,  and  bake  it  in  a 
quick  oven,  make  the  common  fifh  fauce  and 
pour  over  it. — Garnifh  with  fennel,  lemon,  an4 
horfe-radifh. 

To  make  Sauce  for  a  Salmon. 

Boil  a  bunch  of  fennel  aud  parfley,  chop 
them  fmall,  and  put  it  into  fome  good  melted 
butter,  and  fend  it  to  the  table  in  a  fauce-boat; 
another  with  gravy  fauce. 

To  make  the  gravy  fauce,  put  a  little  brown 
gravy  into  a  fauce-pan,  with  one  anchovy,  a 
tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  meat  fpoonful 
of  liquor  from  your  walnut  pickle,  one  or  two 
fpoonfuls  of  the  water  that  the  fi(h  was  boiled 
in ;  it  gives  it  a  pleafant  flavour;  a  flick  of  horfe- 
radifh,  a  little  browning  and  fait;  boil  them 
three  or  four  minutes,  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  itrain  it  through  a 

hair 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       25 

hair  fieve. N.  B.  This  is  a  good  fauce  for 

mofl  kinds  of  boiled  fifh. 

To  boil  a  Turbot. 

WASH  your  turbot  clean  (if  you  let  it  lie  in 
the  water  it  will  make  it  foft)  and  rub  it  over 
with  allegar,  it  will  make  it  firmer,  then  lay  it 
on  your  fifh- plate,  with  the  white  fide  up,  lay  a 
cloth  over  it,  and  pin  it  tight  under  your  plate, 
which  will  keep  it  from  breaking,  boil  it  gently 
in  hard  water,  with  a  good  deal  of  fait  and 
vinegar,  and  fcum  it  well,  or  it  will  difcolour  the 
fkin,  when  it  is  enough,  take  it  up  and  drain  it, 
take  the  cloth  carefully  off,  and  flip  it  on  your 
difh,  lay  over  it  fried  oyfters,  or  oyfter  patties; 
fend  in  lobfter  or  gravy  fiuce  in   fauce-boats. 

Garnifh  it  with  crilp  parfley  and  pickles. ■ 

N.  B.  Don't  put  in  your  fifh  till  your  water  boils. 

To  boil  a  Pike  with  a  pudding  in  the  belly. 

TAKE  out  the  gills  and  guts,  wafli  it  well, 
then  make  a  good  forcemeat  of  oyfters  chopped 
fine,  the  crumbs  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  a  few  fweet 
herbs,  and  a  little  lemon  peel  Lhred  fine,  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  fait  to  your  tafle,  a  good  lump 
of  butter,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  mix  them  well 
together,  and  put  them  in  the  belly  of  your  fifh, 
few  it  up,  fkewer  it  round,  put  hard  water  in 
your  fiih-pan,  add  to  it  a  tea  cupful  of  vinegar, 
and  a  little  fait :  when  it  boils  put  in  the  fifh; 
if  it  be  a  middle  fize,  it  will  take  half  an  hour's 
boiling:  garnifh  it  with  walnuts  and  pickled 
barberries,  ferve  it   up  with  oyfter  fauce  in  a 

boat* 


26  THE    EXPERIENCED 

boat,  and  pour  a  little  fauce  on  the  pike.     You 
may  drefs  a  roafted  pike  the  fame  way, 

Toftew  Carp  white. 

WHEN  the  carp  are  fcaled,  gutted,  and 
wafted,  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan,  with  two 
quarts  of  water,  half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  a 
little  mace,  whole  pepper,  and  fait,  two  onions, 
a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  a  flick  of  horfe-radift, 
cover  the  pan  clofe,  let  it  ftand  an  hour  and  a 
half  over  a  flow  ftove,  then  put  a  gill  of  white 
wine  into  afaucepan,  with  two  anchovies  chop- 
ped, an  onion,  a  little  lemon  peel,  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  little  thick 
cream,  and  a  large  tea  cupful  of  the  liquor  the 
carp  was  ftewed  in  ;  boil  them  a  few  minutes, 
drain  your  carp,  add  to  the  fauce  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  mixed  with  a  little  cream;  when  it  boils 
up  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  dift  up 
your  carp,  and  pour  your  fauce  hot  upon  it. 

"To  drefs  Carp  the  heft  way,  and  the  fauce. 

KILL  your  carp,  and  fave  all  the  blood,  fcale 
and  clean  them  very  well,  have  ready  fome  nice 
rich  gravy  made  of  beef  and  mutton,  feafoned 
with  pepper,  fait,  mace,  and  onion,  ftrain  it  off 
before  you  few  your  fift,  in  it,  boil  your  carp 
firft  before  you  ftew  it  in  the  gravy,  be  careful 
you  don'c  boil  them  too  much  before  you  put 
in  the  carp,  then  let  it  flew  on  a  flow  fire  about 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  thicken  the  fauce  with  a 
good  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour :  garnifh 
your  dift  with  fryed  oyfters,  fryed  toafl:  cut 

three 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  tf 
three  corner  ways,  pieces  of  lemon,  fcraped 
horfe-radifh,  and  the  roe  of  the  carp  cut  in 
pieces,  fome  ffyed  and  the  other  boiled,  fqueeze 
the  juice  of  a  lemon  into  the  fauce  juit  before 
you  lend  it  up;  take  care  to  difti  it  up  hand- 
fomely  and  very  hot. 

Another  Carp  Sauce. 

TAKE  the  liver  of  the  carp  clean  from  the 
guts,  and  three  anchovies,  with  a  little  parfley, 
thyme,  and  one  onion,  chop  all  thefe  fmall  to- 
gether, then  take  half  a  pint  of  Rhenifh  wine, 
four  fpoonfuls  of  elder  vinegar,  with  the  blood 
of  the  carp,  put  all  thefe  together  to  ftew  gently, 
and  put  it  to  the  carp,  which  muft  firft  be 
boiled  in  water,  a  little  fait,  and  a  pint  of  wine; 
take  care  not  to  do  it  too  much  after  the  carp  is 
put  in  the  fauce:  garnifh  with  fryed  oyfters,  fryed 
toaft,  fcraped  horfe-radiih,  and  pieces  of  lemon, 
with  the  roe  cut  in  pieces  and  fryed:  if  you  don't 
like  elder  vinegar,  any  other  fort  will  do. 

To  make  White  Fish  Sauce. 

WASH  two  anchovies,  put  them  into  a  fauce- 
pan,  with  one  glafs  of  white  wine,  and  two  of 
water,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  little  lemon 
peel ;  when  it  has  boiled  five  or  fix  minutes, 
{train  it  through  a  fieve,  add  to  it  a  fpoonful  of 
white  wine  vinegar,  thicken  it  a  little,  then  put 
in  near  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  it 
well,  and  pour  it  hot  upon  your  lift. 

To 


2g  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  make  a  very  nice  Sauce  jor  rnoft forts  of  Fish. 

TAKE  a  little  gravy  made  of  either  veal  or 
mutton,  put  to  it  a  little  of  the  water  that  drains 
from  your  Mi,  when  it  is  boiled  enough,  put  it 
in  a  fauce~pan,  and  put  in  a  wThole  onion,  one 
anchovy,  a  fpoonful  of  catchup,  and  a  glafs  of 
white  wine,  thicken  it  with  a  good  lump  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  fpoonful  of  cream; 
if  you  have  ■  oyfters,  cockles,  or  fhrimps 
put  them  in  after  you  take  it  off  the  fire, 
(but  it  is  very  good  without)  you  may  ufe 
red  wine  inftead  of  white  by  leaving  out  the 
cream. 

To  make  Lobster  Sauce. 

BOIL  half  a  pint  of  water  with  a  little  mace 
and  whole  pepper,  long  enough  to  take  out  the 
ftrong  tafte  of  the  fpice,  then  ftrain  it  oft,  melt 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  butter  fmooth  in 
the  water,  cut  your  lobfler  in  very  fmall  pieces 
flew  it  all  together  tenderly  with  anchovy,  and 
fend  it  up  hot. 

« 

To  make  Lobster  Sauce  another  way. 

BRUISE  the  body  of  a  lobfter  into  thick 
melted  butter  and  cut  the  flefh  into  it  in  fmall 
pieces,  flew  all  together  and  give  it  a  boil,  fea- 
fon  with  a  little  pepper,  fait,  and  a  very  fmall 
quantity  of  mace. 

To 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER;      29 

Tojiew  Carp  or  Tench. 

GUT  and  fcaleyour  fifh,  wafh  and  dry  them 
well  with  a  clean  cloth,  dredge  them  well  with 
flour,  fry  them  in  dripping,  or  fweet  rendered 
fuet,  until  they  are  a  light  brown,  and  then 
put  them  in  a  ftew-pan,  with  a  quart  of  water, 
and  one  quart  of  red  wine,  a  meat  fpoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  another  of  browning,  the  fame  of 
walnut  or  mum  catchup,  a  little  mufhroom 
powder,  and  Chyan  to  your  tafte,  a  large  onion 
ftuck  with  cloves,  and  a  ftick  of  horfe-raciifb, 
cover  your  pan  clofe  to  keep  in  the  fleam,  let 
them  flew  gently  over  a  flove  fire,  till  your  gravy 
is  reduced  to  juft  enough  to  cover  your  fifh  in 
the  difh ;  then  take  the  fifh  out,  and  put  them 
on  the  difh  you  intend  for  table,  fet  the  gravy 
on  the  fire,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and  a  large 
lump  of  butter,  boil  it  a  little,  and  ftrain  it  over 
your  fifh  :  garnifh  them  with  pickled  mufh- 
rooms  and  fcraped  horfe-radifh,  put  a  bunch  of 
pickled  barberries,  or  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in  their 
mouths,  and  fend  them  to  the  table. 

It  is  a  top  diih  for  a  grand  entertainment. 

Ho  drefs  a  Sturgeon. 
TAKE  what  fize  of  a  piece  of  fturgeon  you 
think  proper,  and  wafh  it  clean,  lay  it  all  night 
in  fait  and  water,  the  next  morning  take  it  out, 
rub  it  well  with  allegar,  and  let  it  lie  in  it  for  two 
hours,  then  have  ready  a  fifh-kettle  full  of  boil- 
ing water,  with  one  ounce  of  bay  fait,  two  large 
onions,  and  a  few  fprigs  of  fweet  marj oram ; 
boil  your  fturgeon  till  the  bones  will  leave  the 
5  fifh, 


3o  THE  EXPERIENCED 

fifh,  then  take  it  up,  take  the  fkin  off,  and  floiif 
it  well ;  fet  it  before  the  fire,  bafle  it  with  frefh 
butter,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  a  fine  brown  ; 
then  difh  it  up,  and  pour  into  the  difh  the  fame 
fauce  as  for  the  white  carp  j  garnifh  with  crifp 
parfley  and  red  pickles. 

This  is  a  proper  difh  for  the  top  or  middle. 

To  roajl  large  Eels  or  Lampreys  with  a  pud- 
ding in  the  belly. 

SKIN  your  eels  or  lampreys,  cut  off  the  head, 
take  the  guts  out,  and  icrape  the  blood  clean 
from  the  bone,  then  make  a  good  forcemeat  of 
oyfters  or  fhrimps  chopped  fmall,  the  crumbs  of 
half  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  nutmeg  and  lemon  peel 
fhred  fine,  pepper,  fait,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  put  them  in  the  belly  of  your  fifh,  few  it 
up,  turn  it  round  on  your  difh,  put  over  it 
flour  and  butter,  pour  a  little  water  in  your  difh, 
and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven;  when  it  comes 
out  take  the  gravy  from  under  it,  and  fcum  off 
the  fat,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve;  add  to 
it  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  two  of  brown- 
ing, a  meat  fpoonful  of  walnut  catchup,  a  glafs 
of  white  wine,  one  anchovy,  and  a  flice  of 
lemon,  let  it  boil  ten  minutes,  thicken  it  with 
butter  and  flour,  fend  it  up  in  a  fauce-boat,  difh 
your  fifh :  garnifh  it  with  lemon  and  crifp 
parlley. 

This  is  a  pretty  difh  for  either  corner  or  fide 
for  a  dinner. 


To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.      31 

To  Jiew  Lampreys. 

SKIN  and  gut  your  lampreys,  feafon  them 
well  with  pepper,  fait,  cloves,nutmeg,and  mace, 
riot  pounded  too  fine;  and  a  little  lemon  peel 
fhred  fine;  then  cut  fome  thin  flices  of  butter 
into  the  bottom  of  your  fauce-pan,  put  in  the 
fi(h  with  half  a  pint  of  nice  gravy,  half  the  quan- 
tity of  white  wine  and  cyder,  the  fame  of  claret, 
with  a  fmall  bundle  of  thyme,  winter  favory, 
pot  marjoram,  and  an  onion  fliced,  flew  them 
over  a  flow  fire,  and  keep  turning  the  lampreys 
till  they  are  quite  tender,  when  they  are  tender 
take  them  out  and  put  in  one  anchovy,and  thicken 
the  fauce  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  or  a  little 
butter,  rolled  in  flour,  and  pour  it  over  the  fifh 
and  ferve  them  up. — N.  B.  Roll  them  round  a 
ikewer  before  you  put  them  into  the  pan. 

Tojiew  Flounders,  Plaice,  or  Soles. 

HALF  fry  your  fifh  in  three  ounces  of  but- 
ter a  fine  brown,  then  take  up  your  fifh,  and  put 
to  your  butter  a  quart  of  water,  and  boil  it 
flowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  two  anchovies, 
and  an  onion  fliced,  then  put  in  your  fifh  again, 
with  a  herring,  and  flew  them  gently  twenty 
minutes,  then  take  out  your  fifh,  and  thicken 
the  fauce  with  butter  and  flour,  and  give  it  a 
boil,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  ficve9  over  the 
fifh,  and  fend  them  up  hot. — N.  B.  If  you 
choofe  cockle  or  oyfter-liquor,  out  it  in  juft  be- 
fore you  thicken  the  fauce,  or  you  may  fend 
oyflers,  cockles,  or  fhrimps  in  a  fauce-boat  to 
table. 

A  good 


g2  THE  EXPERIENCED 

A  good  way  to  Jiew  Fish. 

MIX  half  a  tumbler  of  wine  with  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  the  fifh  in  the  ftew-pan  and 
put  in  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  three  or  four 
onions,  a  cruft  of  bread  toafted  very  brown, 
one  anchovy,  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  fet 
them  over  a  gentle  fire,  fhake  the  ftew-pan  now 
and  then  that  it  may  not  burn;  juft  before  you 
ferve  it  up,  pour  your  gravy  into  a  fauce-pan,  and 
thicken  it  with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a 
little  catchup  and  walnut  pickle  beat  well  to- 
gether till  fmooth,  then  pour  it  on  your  fifh, 
and  fet  it  over  the  fire  to  heat,  and  ferve  it  up 
hot, 

To  boil  Mackarel. 

GUT  your  mackarel  and  dry  them  carefully 
with  a  clean  cloth,  then  rub  them  flightly  over 
with  a  little  vinegar,  and  lay  them  flraight  on 
your  fifh  plate  (for  turning  them  round  often 
breaks  them)  put  a  little  fait  in  the  water  when 
it  boils ;  put  them  into  your  fifh-pan,  and  boil 
them  gently  fifteen  minutes,  then  take  them  up 
and  drain  them  well,  and  put  the  water  that  runs 
from  them  into  a  fauce-pan,  with  two  teafpoon- 
fuls  of  lemon  pickle,  one  meat  fpoonful  of  wal- 
nut catchup,  the  fame  of  browning,  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  one  anchovy,  a  flice  of  lemon;  boil 
them  all  together  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  and  thicken  it  with 
flour  and  butter;  fend  it  in  a  fauce-boat,  and 
parfley  fauce  in  another;  difh  up  your  fifh  with 
the  tails  in  the  middle;  garnifh  it  with  fcraped 
horfe-radifh  and  barberries. 

r* 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       33 

To  boil  Herrings. 

SCALE,  gut,  and  warn  your  herrings ;  dry 
them  clean,  and  rub  them  over  with  a  little 
vinegar  and  fait,  fkewer  them  with  their  tails 
in  their  mouths,  lay  them  on  your  fim  plat?, 
when  your  water  boils  put  them  in,  they  will 
take  ten  or  twelve  minutes  'oiling  when  you 
take  them  up,  drain  them  over  the  water,  then 
turn  the  heads  into  the  middle  of  your  dim, 
lay  round  them  fcraped  horfe-radifh,  parfley 
and  butter  for  fauce. 

To  fry  Herrings. 

SCALE,  wafli,  and  dry  your  herrings  well  $ 
lay  them  feparately  on  a  board,  and  fet  then]  to 
the  fire  two  or  three  minutes  before  you  want 
them,  it  will  keep  the  fiih  from  flicking  to  the 
pan,  dun:  them  with  flour,  when  your  dripping 
or  butter  is  boiling  hot  put  in  your  fifli,  a  few 
at  a  time,  fry  them  over  a  brifk  fire,  when  you 
have  fryed  them  all,  fet  the  tails  up  one  againil 
another  in  the  middle  of  the  dith,  then  fry  a 
large  handful  of  parfley  crifp,  take  it  out  before 
it  lofes  its  colour*  lay  it  round  them*  and  parfley 
fauce  in  a  boat;  or  if  you  like  onions  better  fry 
them*  lay  fome  round  your  dim  v  and  make  o,  roil 
fauce  for  them;  or  you  may  cut  oft  the  heads 
after  they  are  fryed,  chop  thtai  and  put  them 
into  a  Jauce-pan,  with  ale,  pepper,  fait,  ana  an 
anchovy,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  ftrain 
it*  then  put  it  m  a  fauce-ooat, 

D  2i 


34  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To  bake  Herrings. 
WHEN  you  have  cleaned  your  herrings  as 
above,  lay  them  on  a  board,  take  a  little  black 
and  Jamaica  pepper,  a  few  cloves,  and  a  good 
deal  of  fait,  mix  them  together,  then  rub  it  all 
over  the  fifh,  lay  them  ftraight  in  a  pot,  cover 
them  with  allegar,  tie  ftrong  paper  over  the 
pot,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven;  if  your 
allegar  be  good,  they  will  keep  two  or  three 
months ;  you  may  eat  them  either  hot  or  cold. 

To  bake  Sprats. 
RUB  your  fprats  with  fait  and  pepper,  and 
to  every  two  pints  of  vinegar  put  one  pint  of 
red  wine,  diffolve  a  penny-worth  of  cochineal, 
lay  your  fprats  in  a  deep  earthen  difh,  pour  in 
as  much  red  wine,  vinegar,  and  cochineal  as 
will  cover  them,  tie  a  paper  over  them,  fet 
them  in  an  oven  all  night. — They  will  eat  well, 
smd  keep  for  fome  time. 

To  boil  Scate  07*  Ray. 
CLEAN  your  fcate  or  ray  very  well,  and  cut 
it  in  long  narrow  pieces,  then  put  it  in  boil- 
ing water  with  a  little  fait  in  it,  when  it  has 
boiled  a  quarter  of  an  hour  take  it  out,  flip  the 
fkin  off,  then  put  it  into  your  pan  again,  with  a 
little  vinegar,  and  boil  it  till  enough ;  when  you 
take  it  up,  fet  it  over  the  water  to  drain,  and 
cover  it  clofe  up,  and  when  you  difli  it,  be  as 
quick  as  poffible,  for  it  foon  grows  cold,  pour 
over  it  cockle,  fhrimp,  or  mufcle  fauce,  lay 
over  it  oyfter  patties;  garni(h  it  with  barberries 
and  horfe-radiih. 

T$ 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       35 

To  fry  Soles. 
SKIN  your  foles  as  you  do  eels,  but  keep  on 
their  heads,  rub  them  over  with  an  egg,  and 
ftrew  over  them  bread  crumbs,  fry  them  over  a 
brifk  fire  in  hogs-lard  a  light  brown,  ferve  them 
up  with  good  melted  butter,  and  garnifli  it  with 
green  pickles. 

To  marinate  Soles. 

BOIL  them  in  fait  and  water,  bone  and  drain 
them,  lay  them  on  a  dim  with  the  belly  up, 
boil  fome  fpinage  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar, 
then  boil  four  eggs  hard,  chop  the  whites  and 
yolks  feparate,  lay  green,  white,  and  yellow 
amongft  the  foles,  ferve  them  up  with  melted 
butter  in  a  boat. 

To  broil  Haddocks  or  Whitings. 

GUT  and  wafh  your  haddocks  or  whitings, 
dry  them  with  a  cloth,  and  rub  a  little  vinegar 
over  them,  it  will  keep  the  lkin  on  better,  duft 
them  well  with  flour,  rub  your  gridiron  with 
butter,  and  let  it  be  very  hot  when  you  lay  the 
h(h  on,  or  they  will  flick,  turn  them  two  or 
three  times  on  the  gridiron,  when  enough  ferve 
them  up,  and  lay  pickles  round  them,  with  plain 
melted  butter,  or  cockle  fauce,  they  are  a  pretty 
dim  for  fupper. 

A  fecond  Way. 

WHEN  you  have  cleaned  your  haddocks  or 
whitings,  as  above,  put  them  in  a  tin  oven,  and 
fet  them  before  a  quick  fire,  when  the  fkins  be- 
gin to  rife  take  them  off,  beat  an  egg,  rub  it  over 

D  2  them 


36  THE    EXPERIENCED 

them  with  a  feather,  and  ftrewover  them  a  few 
bread  crumbs,  dredge  them  well  with  flour, 
when  your  gridiron  is  hot  rub  it  well  with  butter 
or  fuet,  it  mull  be  very  hot  before  you  lay  the 
fi£h  on,  when  you  have  turned  them,  rub  a  little 
cold  butter  over  them,  turn  them  as  your  fire 
requires  until  they  are  enough  and  a  little  brown; 
lay  round  them  cockles,  mufcles,  or  red  cab- 
bage, you  may  either  have  fhrimp  faucc  or 
melted  butter. 

To  fry  Smelts  or  Sparlings. 
DRAW  the  guts  out  at  the  gills,  but  leave  in 
the  melt  or  roe,  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  beat  an 
egg  and  rub  it  over  them  with  a  feather,  then 
flrew  bread  crumbs  over  them,  fry  them  with 
hogs-lard  or  rendered  beef  fuet,  when  it  is  boil- 
ing hot  put  in  your  fifh,  fhake  them  a  little,  and 
fry  them  a  nice  brown,  drain  them  in.  a  fieve, 
when  you  difh  them^put  a  bafon  in  the  middle 
of  your  difh  with  the  bottom  up,  lay  the  tails  of 
your  fifh  on  it,  fry  a  handful  oi  parfley  in  the  fat 
your  fifh  was  fryed  in,  take  it  out  of  water  as  you 
fry  it,  and  it  will  keep  its  colour  and  crifp 
fooner,  put  a  little  on  the  tails,  and  lay  the  reft 
in  lumps  round  the  edge  of  the  difh;  ferve  it  up 
with  good  melted  butter  for  fauce. 

To  fry  Perch  or  Trout. 

WHEN  ycu  have  fcakd,  gutted,  and  wafhed 
your  perch  or  trout,  dry  ttam  well,  then  lay 
them  feparately  on  a  board  before  the  fire,  two 
minutes  before  you  fry  them  duft  them  well 
with  flour,  and  try  them  a  fine  brown  in  roaft 

drippings 


ENGLISH    HOUSE- KEEPER.       37 

drippings  or  rendered  fuet,  ferve  them  up  with 
melted  batter  and  crifped  parfley. 

To  drefs  Perch  in  Water  Sokey. 
SCALE,  gut,  and  w?.fh  your  perch,  put  fait 
in  your  water,  when  it  boils  put  in  the  Am, 
with  an  onion  cut  in  flices,  you  iAuft  feparate 
it  into  round  rings,  a  handful  of  parfley  picked 
and  warned  clean,  put  in  as  much  milk  as  will 
turn  the  water  white,  when  your  fifh  is  enough, 
put  them  in  a  foup  dim,  and  pour  a  little  of  the 
w^ater  over  them  with  the  parfley  and  the  onions, 
then  ferve  it  up  with  butter  and  parfley  in  a  boat; 
onions  may  be  omitted  if  you  pleafe.  You  may 
boil  trout  the  fame  way. 

21?  foil  Eels. 

SKIN,  gut,  and  take  the  blood  out  of  your 
eels  cut  off  their  heads,  dry  them,  and  turn 
them  round  on  your  fifh  plate,  boil  them  in  fait 
and  water,  and  make  parfley  fauce  for  them. 

To  pitch-cock  Eels. 
SKIN,  gut,  and  warn  your  eels,  then  dry 
them  with  a  cloth,  fp;  inkle  them  with  pepper, 
fait,  and  a  little  dried  fage,  turn  them  backward 
and  forward,  and  fkewer  them,  rub  your  grid- 
iron with  beef  fuet,  broil  them  a  good  brown, 
put  them  on  your  dim  with  good  melted  but- 
ter, and  lay  round  fryed  parfley. 

To  broil  Eels, 
WHEN  you  have  fkinned  and  cleanfed  your 
eels  as  before,  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 

P  3  ftrew 


38  THE   EXPERIENCED 

ftrew  over  them  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parfley, 
fage,  pepper,  and  fait,  bade  them  well  with  but- 
ter, and  fet  them  in  a  dripping-pan,  roaft  or 
broil  them  on  a  gridiron,  ferve  them  up  with 
parfley  and  butter  for  fauce. 

To  boil  Flounders,  and  all  Kinds  of 
Flat  Fish. 

CUT  off  the  fins,  and  nick  the  brown  fide 
under  the  head,  then  take  out  the  guts,  and  dry 
them  with  a  cloth,  boil  them  in  fait  and  water  ; 
make  either  gravy,  fhrimp,  cockle,  or  mufcle 
fauce,  and  garnifh  it  with  red  cabbage. 

To  Jiew  Oysters,  and  all  Sorts  of 
Shell  Fish. 

WHEN  you  have  opened  your  oyfters,  put 
their  liquor  into  a  toffing  pan  with  a  little 
beaten  mace,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter, 
boil  it  three  or  four  minutes,  toaft  a  flice  of 
white  bread,  and  cut  it  into  three-cornered 
pieces,  lay  them  round  your  difh,  put  in  a 
fpoonful  of  good  cream,  put  in  your  oyfters, 
and  make  them  round  in  your  pan,  you  mufl 
not  let  them  boil,  for  if  they  do  it  will  make 
them  hard  and  look  fmall ;  ferve  them  up  in  a 

little  foup  dim  or   plate. N.  B.  You  may 

ftew  cockles,  mufcies,  or  any  fhell  fifh  the 
fame  way. 

To  Jiew  Oysters,  Cockles,  and  Muscles. 

OPEN  your  fifh  clean  from  the  fhell,  fave 
the  liquor,  and  let  it  ftand  to  fettle,  then  ftrain. 

it 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       3$ 

it  through  a  hair  neve,  and  put  to  it  as  many 
crumbs  of  bread  as  will  make  it  pretty  thick, 
and  boil  them  well  together  before  you  put  in 
the  fifh,  with  a  good  lump  of  butter,  pepper, 
and  fait  to  your  tafte,  give  them  a  fingle  boil, 
and  ferve  them  up. — N.  B.  You  may  make  it  a 
fifh  fauce  by  adding  a  glafs  of  white  wine  juft 
before  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  leaving  out 
the  crumbs  of  bread. 

To  fcollop  Oysters. 

WHEN  your  oyflers  are  opened,  put  them 
in  a  bafon,  and  wafh  them  out  of  their  own 
liquor,  put  fome  in  your  fcollop-fhells,  ftrew 
over  them  a  few  bread  crumbs,  and  lay  a  flice 
of  butter  on  them,  then  more  oyfters,  bread 
crumbs,  and  a  flice  of  butter  on  the  top,  put 
them  into  a  Dutch  oven  to  brown,  and  ferve 
them  up  in  the  (hells. 

To  fry  Oysters. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  an  hundred  of  large  oy- 
fters, beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  add  to  it  a 
little  nutmeg,  and  a  blade  of  mace  pounded,  a 
fpoonful  of  flour,  and  a  little  fait,  dip  in  your 
oyfters,  and  fry  them  in  hogs-lard  a  light  brown  -y 
if  you  choofe  you  may  add  a  little  parfley  fhred 

fine. JY".  .B.  They  are  a  proper  garnifh 

for  cods-head,  calves-head,  or  tnoft  made 
difhes, 


D  4  ?i 


40  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Oyster  Loaves. 

TAKE  fmall  French  rafps,  or  you  may  make 
little  round  loaves,  make  a  round  hole  in  the 
top,  fcrape  out  all  the  crumbs,  then  put  your 
oyfters  into  a  toiling  pan,  with  the  liquor  and 
crumbs  that  came  out  of  your  rafps  or  loaves, 
and  a  good  lump  of  butter,  flew  them  together 
five  or  fix  minutes,  then  put  in  a  fpoonful  of 
good  cream,  fill  your  rafps  or  loaves.,  lay  the 
bit  of  cruft  carefully  on  again,  fet  them  in  the 
oven  to  crifp.— — Three  are  enough  for  a  fide 
dim. 

To  boil  Lobsters, 

TAKE  your  lobfter,  and  put  afkewer  in  the 
vent  of  the  tail,  to  prevent  the  water  from  get- 
ting into  the  body  of  the  lobfter,  put  it  into  a 
pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  fait  in  it,  if  it 
be  a  large  ^ne  it  will  take  half  an  hour's  boiling: ; 
when  you  take  it  out,  put  a  lump  of  butter 
in  a  cloth,  and  rub  it  over,  it  will  ftrike  the 
colour,  and  make  it  look  bright. 

To  roajl  Lobsters. 

HALF  boil  your  lobfter  as  before,  rub  it  well 
with  butter,  and  fet  it  before  the  fire,  bafte  it 
all  over  till  the  fhell  looks  a  dark  brown,  ferve 
U  up  with  good  melted  butter* 


To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       41 

Tojlew  Lobsters  or  Shrimps. 

PICK  your  lobfters  or  fhrimps  in  as  large 
pieces  as  you  can,  and  boil  the  fhells  in  a  pint 
of  water,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  a 
few  whole  pepper  corns;  when  all  the  ftrength 
is  come  out  of  the  fhells  and  fpice,  ftrain  it,  and 
put  in  your  lobfters  or  fhrimps,  and  thicken  it 
with  flour  and  butter  and  give  them  a  boil ;  put 
in  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  or  two  fpoonfuls  of 
vinegar,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  make  Lobster  Patties  to  garnijh  Fish. 

TAKE  all  the  red  feeds  and  the  meat  of  a 
lobfter,  with  a  little  pepper,  fait,  and  crumbs 
of  bread,  mix  them  well  with  a  little  better, 
make  them  up  in  fmall  patties,  and  put  them  in 
either  rich  batter  or  thin  pafte,  fry  or  bake 
them,  and  garnifh  your  fifh  with  them. 

To  pickle  Sturgeon. 

Cut  your  fturgeon  into  what  fize  pieces  you 
pleafe,  wafh  it  well,  and  tie  it  with  mats ;  to 
every  three  quarts  of  water  put  otiq  quart  of 
old  ftrong  beer,  a  handful  of  bay  fait,  and  dou- 
ble the  quantity  of  common  fait,  one  ounce. of 
ginger,  two  ounces  of  black  pepper,  one  ounce 
of  cloves,  and  one  of  Jamaica  pepper,  boil  it 
till  it  will  leave  the  bone,  then  take  it  up,  the 
next  day  put  in  a  quart  of  ftrong  ale  allegar,  and 
a  little  fait,  tie  it  down  with  ftrong  paper,  an4 
keep  it  for  ufe. — Don't  put  your  fturgeon  in 
till  the  water  boils. 

To 


42  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  pickle  Salmon  the  Newcajile  Way. 

TAKE  a  falmon  about  twelve  pounds,  gut 
it,  then  cut  off  the  head,  and  cut  it  a-crofs  in 
what  pieces  you  pleafe,  but  don't  fplitit,  fcrape 
the  blood  from  the  bone,  and  wafh  it  well  out, 
then  tie  it  a-crofs  each  way,  as  you  do  fturgeon, 
fet  on  your  fiih-pan  with  two  quarts  of  water, 
and  three  of  ftrong  beer,  half  a  pound  of  bay 
fait,  and  one  pound  of  common  fait,  when  it 
boils  fcum  it  well,  then  put  in  as  much  fifh  as 
your  liquor  will  cover,  and  when  it  is  enough 
take  it  carefully  out,  left  you  ftrip  off  the  fkin, 
and  lay  it  on  earthen  diihes  ;  when  you  have 
done  all  your  fifh,  let  it  ftand  till  the  next  day* 
put  it  into  pots,  add  to  the  liquor  three  quarts 
of  ftrong  beer  allegar,  half  an  ounce  of  mace, 
the  fame  of  cloves  and  black  pepper,  one  ounce 
of  long  pepper,  two  ounces  of  white  ginger, 
jfliced,  boil  them  well  together  half  an  hour, 
then  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  your  fifh,  when 
cold  cover  it  well  with  ftrong  brown  paper,— m 
This  will  keep  a  whole  year. 

To  pickle  Oysters. 

OPEN  the  largeft  and  fineft  oyfters  you  can 
get,  whole  and  clean  from  the  (hell,  wafh  them 
in  their  own  liquor,  let  it  ftand  to  fettle,  then 
pour  it  from  the  fediment  into  a  fauce-pan,  put 
to  it  a  glafs  of  Lifbon  wine,  as  much  white  wine 
vinegar  as  you  had  oyfter  liquor,  three  or  four 
blades  of  mace,  a  nutmet  fliced,  a  few  white 
pepper  corns,  and  a  little  fait,  boil  it  five  or  fix 

minutes. 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      ^3 

minutes,  fcum  it,  then  put  in  your  oyfters, 
fimmer  them  ten  or  twelve  minutes,  take  them 
out,  and  put  them  in  narrow-topped  jars 5  when 
they  are  cold,  pour  over  them  rendered  mutton 
fuet,  tie  them  down  with  a  bladder,  and  keep 
them  for  ufe. 

To  pickle  Oysters  afecond  Way. 

OPEN  the  oyfters  very  carefully,  and  take 
off  all  the  (hells  that  ftick  to  the  rim,  put 
them  into  a  little  water,  and  wa(h  the  oyfters 
in  it  and  drain  the  liquor,  boil  it  with  a  little 
vinegar,  whole  pepper,  fait,  and  mace,  till  it 
talte  of  the  fpices,  then  put  in  the  oyfters :  if 
they  are  large  they  muft  boil  eight  minutes,  if 
fmall,  not  fo  long  3  put  them  into  pickling-pots, 
when  the  liquor  is  cold  pour  it  upon  the  oyfters. 
To  half  a  hundred  of  oyfters  put  fix  fpoonfuls 
of  water  and  four  of  very  good  vinegar,  then  tie 
bladders  very  clofe  over  them. 

To  collar  Mackarel. 

GUT  and  flit  your  mackarel  down  the  belly, 
cut  off  the  head,  take  out  the  bones,  take  care 
you  don't  cut  it  in  holes,  then  lay  it  flat  upon 
its  back,  feafon  it  with  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  fait,  and  a  handful  of  parfley  ihred  fine, 
ftrew  it  over  them,  roll  them  tight,  and  tie 
them  well  feparately  in  cloths,  boil  them  gently 
twenty  minutes  in  vinegar,  fait,  and  water,  then 
take  them  out,  put  them  into  a  pot,  pour  the 
liquor  on  them,  or  the  cloth  will  flick  to  the 
riih,  the  next  day  take  the  cloth  off  your  fiih, 

put 


44  THE   EXPERIENCED 

put  a  little  more  vinegar  to  the  pickle,  keep 
them  for  ufe;  when  you  fend  them  to  the  table, 
garnifh  with  fennel  and  parfley,  and  put  fome  of 
the  liquor  under  them. 

■To pickle  Ma ckarel. 

WASH  and  gut  your  mackarel,  then  fkewer 
them  round  with  their  tails  in  their  mouths, 
bind  them  with  a  fillet  to  k.-ep  them  from  break- 
ing, boil  them  in  fait  and  water  about  ten  mi- 
nutes, then  take  them  carefully  cut,  put  to  the 
water  a  pint  of  aliegar,  two  or  three  blades  of 
mace,  a  little  whole  pepper,  and  boil  it  all  to- 
gether ;  when  cold  pour  it  on  the  fifh,  and  tie 
it  down  cloie. 

To  pot  Salmon* 

Let  your  falmon  be  quite  frelh,  fcale  an 4 
wafh  it  well,  and  dry  it  with  a  clo  L,  fplit  it  up 
the  back  and  take  out  the  bone,  f  ion  it  well 
with  white  pepper  and  filt,  a  little  nutmeg  and 
inace,  let  it  lie  two  or  three  hours,  men  pu:  it 
in  your  pot,  with  half  a  pound  of  butter,  tie  it 
down,  put  it  into  the  oven  and  bake  it  an  hour, 
when  it  comes  out,  lay  it  on  a  flat  dim  that  the 
oil  may  run  from  it,  cut  it  to  the  fize  of  your 
pots,  lay  it  in  layers  till  you  fill  the  pot,  with 
the  fkin  upwards,  put  a  board  over  it,  lay  on  a 
weight  to  prefs  it  till  cold,  then  pour  over  it 
clarified  butter;  when  you  cut  it,  the  fkin  makes 
it  look  ribbed,  you  may  fend  it  to  the  table 
either  cut  in  flices,  or  in  the  pot. 

AJecond 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       45 

Afecond  way. 

WHEN  you  have  any  cold  falmon  left,  take 
the  fkin  off,  and  bone  it,  then  put  it  in  a  mar- 
ble mortar,  with  a  good  deal  of  clarified  but- 
ter ;  fcafon  it  pretty  high  with  pepper,  mace, 
and  fait,  fhred  a  little  fennel  very  final!,  beat 
them  all  together  exceeding  fine,  then  put  it 
clofe  down  into  a  pot,  and  cover  it  with  clarified 
butter, 

To potSMELTs  or  Sparlings. 

DRAW  out  the  guts  with  a  fkewer  under 
the  gills,  the  melt  or  roe  muft  be  left  in,  dry 
them  well  with  a  cloth,  feafon  them  with  fait, 
mace,  and  pepper,  lay  them  in  a  pot,  with  half 
a  pound  of  n.elted  butter  over  them,  tie  them 
down,  and  bake  them  in  a  fl  jW  oven  three  quar- 
ters of  an  hour;  when  they  are  almoft  cold, 
take  them  out  of  the  liquor,  put  them  into  oval 
pots,  cover  them  with  clarified  butter,  and  keep 
them  for  ufe. 

To  pickle  Smelts  <?r  Sparlings. 

GUT  them  wTith  a  fkewer  under  the  gills, 
but  leave  the  melt  or  roe  in,  dry  them  with  a 
cloth,  and  fkewer  their  tails  in  their  mouths, 
put  fait  in  your  water,  when  it  boils  put  in  your 
fifh  for  ten  minutes,  then  take  them  up,  put  to 
the  water  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  few  cloves, 
and  a  little  allegar;  boil  them  all  together,  and 
when  it  is  cold  put  in  your  fifh,  and  keep  them 
for  ufe. 

To 


4^  THE    EXPERIENCED 


To  collar  Eels. 

CASE  your  eel,  cut  off  the  head,  flit  open 
the  belly,  take  out  the  guts,  cut  off  the  fins, 
take  out  the  bones,  lay  it  flat  on  the  back, 
grate  over  it  a  fmall  nutmeg,  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace  beat  fine,  a  little  pepper  and  fait, 
flrew  over  it  a  handful  of  parfley  fhred  fine,  with 
a  few  fage  leaves,  roll  it  up  tight  in  a  cloth, 
bind  it  well;  if  it  be  of  a  middle  fize,  boil  it 
in  fait  and  water  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  hang 
it  up  all  night  to  drain,  add  to  the  pickle  a  pint 
of  vinegar,  a  few  pepper  corns,  and  a  fprig  of 
fweet  marjoram,  boil  it  ten  minutes,  and  let  it 
Hand  till  the  next  day,  take  off  the  cloth,  and 
put  your  eels  into  the  pickle,  you  may  fend  them 
whole  on  a  plate,  or  cut  them  in  flices  ;  gar- 
nifh  with  green  parfley. — Lampreys  are  done 
the  fame  way. 


To  pickle  Cockles. 

WASH  your  cockles  clean,  put  them  in  a 
fauce-pan,  cover  them  clofe,  fet  them  over  the 
fire,  make  them  till  they  open,  then  pick  them 
out  of  the  {hells,  let  the  liquor  fettle  till  it  be 
clear,  then  put  the  fame  quantity  of  wine 
vinegar,  and  a  li i tie  fait,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace, 
boil  them  together,  and  pour  it  on  your  cockles, 

and  keep  them  in  bottles  for  ufe. You  mull 

pickle  mufcles  the  fame  way. 

ft 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.       47 

To  pot  Chars. 

CUT  off  fhe  fins,  and  cheek-part  of  each 
fide  of  the  head  of  your  chars,  rip  them  open, 
take  out  the  guts  and  the  blood  from  the  back- 
bone, dry  them  well  in  a  cloth,  lay  them  on  a 
board,  and  throw  on  them  a  good  deal  of  fait, 
let  them  ftand  all  night,  then  fcrape  it  gently 
off  them,  and  wipe  them  exceedingly  well  with 
a  cloth,  pound  mace,  cloves,  and  nutmeg,  very 
fine,  throw  a  little  in  the  infide  of  them,  and 
a  good  deal  of  fait  and  pepper  on  the  outfide, 
put  them  clofe  down  in  a  deep  pot,  with  their 
bellies  up,  with  plenty  of  clarified  butter  over 
them,  fet  them  in  the  oven,  and  let  them 
Hand  for  three  hours;  when  they  come  out, 
pour  what  butter  you  can  off  clear,  lay  a  board 
over  them,  and  turn  them  upfide  down,  to  let 
the  gravy  run  from  them,  fcrape  the  fait  and 
pepper  very  carefully  off,  and  feafon  them  ex- 
ceeding well  both  infide  and  out  with  the  above 
feafoning,  lay  them  clofe  into  broad  thin  pots 
for  that  purpofe,  with  the  backs  up,  then  cover 
them  well  with  clarified  butter ;  keep  them  in. 
a  cool  dry  place. 

To  pot  Eels. 

SKIN,  gut,  and  clean  your  eels,  cut  them 
in  pieces  about  four  inches  long,  then  feafon 
them  with  pepper,  fait,  beaten  mace,  and  a 
little  dryed  fage  rubbed  very  fine,  rub  them 
well  with  your  feafoning,  lay  them  in  a  brown 
pot,  put  over  them  as  much  butter  as  will  co- 
4  ver 


%&  THE    EXPERIENCE!) 

ver  them,  tie  them  down  with  a  ftrong  paper^ 
let  them  in  a  quick  overt  for  an  hour  and  a 
half;  take  them  out,  when  cold  put  them  into 
fmall  pots,  and  cover  them  with  clarified  butter* 

— N.  B.  You  may  pot  lampreys  the  fame 

way. 

To  pot  Lampreys. 

TAKE  lampreys  alive,  and  run  a  ftick 
through  their  heads,  and  flit  their  tails,  hang 
them  up  by  their  heads  and  they  will  bleed  at 
the  tail  end ;  when  they  have  done  bleeding* 
cut  them  open,  take  out  the  guts,  and  wipe 
them  until  they  are  perfectly  dry  and  clean, 
(you  muft  not  waih  them  with  water)  then  rub 
them  with  pepper  and  fait,  let  them  ftand  all 
night,  and  wipe  them  exceedingly  dry  again,  then 
feafon  them  with  pepper,  fait,  mace,  and  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg,  roll  them  up  tight,  put  them  in  a 
pot  with  fome  butter,  cover  them  up  with 
Ilrong  paper,  and  bake  them  in  a  moderate 
oven ;  when  they  are  enough  and  near  cold, 
drain  out  the  butter  from  them,  put  them  in 
your  potting  pots,  and  cover  them  with  clari- 
fied butter* 

To  pot  Lobsters. 

TAKE  the  meat  out  of  the  claws  and  belly 
of  a  boiled  lobfter,  put  it  in  a  marble  mortar, 
with  two  blades  or  mace,  a  Utile  white  pepper 
and  fait,  a  lump  of  butter  the  fize  of  half  an 
egg,  beat  them  all  together  till  they  come  to  a 
parte,  put  one  half  of  it  into  your  pot,  take  the 
2  meat 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      49 

meat  out  of  the  tail  part,  lay  it  in  the  middle 
of  your  pot,  lay  on  it  the  other  half  of  your 
pafte,   prefs  it  clofe  down,  pour  over  it  clarified 

butter,   a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.- N.  B. 

To  clarify  butter,  put  your  boat  into  a  clean 
fauceparl,  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire,  when  it  is 
melted,  fcum  it,  and  take  it  off  the  fire,  let  it 
ftand  a  little,  then  pour  it  over  your  lobfters; 
take  care  you  do  not  pour  in  the  milk,  which 
fettles  to  the  bottom  of  the  faucepan. 

A  receipt  to  pot  Lobsters,  "which  cojl  ten  guineas* 

TAKE  twenty  good  lobfters,  and  when  cold 
pick  all  the  meat  out  of  the  tails  and  claws 
(be  careful  to  take  out  all  the  black  gut  in  the 
tails,  which  mud  not  be  ufed)  beat  fine  three 
quarters  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  a  fmall  nutmeg, 
and  four  or  five  cloves,  with  pepper  and  fait, 
feafon  the  meat  writh  it ;  lay  a  layer  of  butter 
into  a  deep  earthen  pot,  then  put  in  the  lob- 
fters, and  lay  the  reft  of  the  butter  over  them 
(this  quantity  of  lobfters  will  take  at  lead  four 
pounds  of  butter  to  bake  them)  tie  a  paper 
over  the  pot,  fet  them  in  an  oven,  when  they 
are  baked  tender,  take  them  out,  and  lay  them 
on  a  diih  to  drain  a  little,  then  put  them  clofe 
down  in  your  potting  pots,  but  do  not  break 
them  in  fmall  pieces,  but  lay  them  in  as  whole 
as  you  can,  only  fplitting  the  tails.  When  you 
have  filled  your  pots  as  full  as  you  choofe,  take  a 
fpoonful  or  two  of  the  red  butter  they  were  baked 
in,  pour  it  on  the  top,  and  let  it  before  the  fire 
to  let  it  melt  in,  then  cool  it,  and  melt  a  little 

E  white 


5o  THE    EXPERIENCED 

white  wax  in  the  remainder  of  the  butter,  and 

cover  them. N.  B.  Lay  a  good  deal  of  the 

red  hard  part  in  the  pot  to  bake,  to  colour  the 
butter,   but  do  not  put  it  in  the  potting  pots. 

To  pot   Shrimps. 

PICK  the  fineft  fhrimps  you  can  get,  feafon 
them  with  a  little  beaten  mace,  pepper  and  fait 
to  your  tafte,  and  with  a  little  cold  butter  pound 
them  all  together  in  a  mortar  till  it  comes  to  a 
pafte,  put  it  down  in  imall  pots,  and  pour  over 
them  clarified  butter. 

To  caveach   Soles. 

FRY  your  foles  in  either  oil  or  butter,  boil 
fome  vinegar  with  a  little  water,  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace,  a  very  few  cloves,  fome  black 
pepper  and  a  little  fait,  let  it  ftand  till  cold,  and 
when  cold  beat  up  fome  oil  with  it,  lay  your 
fifh  in  a  deep  pot,  and  ilice  a  good  deal  of 
fhalots  or  onions  between  each  fifh,  throw  your 
liquor  over  it,  and  pour  fome  oil  on  the  top  : 
it  will  keep  three  or  four  months,  made  rich  and 
fryed  in  oil ;  it  muft  be  /topped  well  and  kept 
in  a  dry  place.  Take  out  a  little  at  a  time 
when  you  ufe  it. 

To  caveach  Fish. 

CUT  your  fifli  into  pieces  the  thicknefs  of 
your  hand,  feafon  it  with  pepper  and  fait,  let  it 
lie  an  hour,  dry  it  well  with  a  cloth,  flour  it, 
and  then  fry  it  a  fine  brown  in  oil  ;  boil  a  fuffi- 

cient 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       51 

fcient  quantity  of  vinegar  with  a  little  garlick, 
mace,  and  whole  pepper  to  cover  the  fifh,  add 
the  fame  quantity. of  oil,  and  fait  to  your  tafte, 
mix  well  the  oil  and  vinegar,  and  when  the  fifh 
and  liquor  is  quite  cold,  flice  fome  onion  to  lay 
in  the  bottom  of  the  pot,  then  a  layer  of  fifh 
and  onion,  and  fo  on  till  the  whole  fifh  is  pat 
tip ;  the  liquor  muft  not  be  put  in  till  it  is 
quite  cold. 

A  very  good  Way  to  preferve  Fish, 

TAKE  any  large  fifh,  cut  off  the  head,  wafft 
it  clean,  and  cut  it  into  thin  flices>  dry  it  well 
with  a  cloth,  flour  it  and  dip  it  in  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  fry  it  in  plenty  of  oil  till  it  is  a  fine  brown, 
and  well  done,  lay  them  to  drain  till  cold,  then 
lay  them  in  your  veffel,  throw  in  betwixt  the 
layers,  mace,  cloves,  and  fliced  nutmeg,  then 
make  a  pickle  of  the  beft  white  wine  vinegar, 
fhalots,  garlick,  white  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper, 
long  pepper,  juniper  berries  and  fait,  boil  it-till 
the  gariick  is  tender,  and  the  pickle  will  be 
enough  ;  when  u  is  quite  cold  pour  it  on  your 
fifh,  with  a  little  oil  on  the  top  ;  fmall  fifh  are 
done  whole  -,  cover  it  clofe  with  a  bladder* 

To  pickle  Shrimps;, 

PICK  the  fined  fhrimps  you  can  get,  and 
put  them  into  cold  allegar  and  fait,  put  them 
into  little  bottles,  cork  them  clofe,  and  keep 
them  for  ufe. 

E  a  TQ 


52  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  pot  red  and  black  Moor-Game, 

PLUCK  and  draw  them-,  and  feafon  them 
with  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  ginger,  and  nutmeg, 
well  beaten  and  lifted,  with  a  quantity  of  fait 
not  to  overcome  the  fpices,  roll  a  lump  of  but- 
ter in  the  feafoning,  and  put  it  into  the  body  of 
the  fowls,  rub  the  outfide  with  feafoning,  and 
then  put  them  into  pots  with  the  breaft  down- 
wards and  cover  them  with  butter,  lay  a  paper, 
and  then  a  pafte  over  them,  and  bake  them  till 
they  are  tender,  then  take  them  out  and  lay 
them  to  drain,  then  put  them  into  potting-pots 
with  the  breaft  upward,  and  take  all  the  butter 
they  were  baked  in  clean  from  the  gravy  and 
pour  upon  them;  fill  up  the  pots  Math  clari- 
fied butter,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 


C  H  A  P.     III. 

Obfervations  on  Roasting  and  Boiling. 

WHEN  you  boil  any  kind  of  meat,  parti- 
cularly veal,  it  requires  a  great  deal  of 
care  and  neatnefs  :  be  fure  your  copper  is  very 
clean  and  well  tinned,  fill  it  as  full  oi  foft  water 
as  is  neceflary,  duft  your  veal  well  with  fine 
flour,  put  it  into  your  copper,  fet  it  over  a  large 
fire ;  fome  choofe  to  put  in  milk  to  make  it 
white,  but  I  think  it  is  better  without:  if  your 
water  happens  to  be  the  lead  hard  it  curdles 

the 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER."      5? 

the  milk,  and  gives  the  veal  a  brown  yellow 
caft,  and  often  hangs  in  lumps  about  the  veal, 
fo  will  oatmeal,  but  by  dufting  your  veal,  and 
putting  it  into  the  water  when  cold,  it  prevents 
the  foulnefs  of  the  water  from  hanging  upon  it ; 
when  the  fcum  begins  to  rife,  take  it  clear  off, 
put  on  your  cover,  let  it  boil  in  plenty  of  water 
as  flow  as  poflible,  it  will  make  your  veal  rife 
and  plump:  a  cook  cannot  be  guilty  of  a  greater 
errour  than  to  let  any  fort  of  meat  boil  faft,  it 
hardens  the  outfide  before  the  infide  is  warm, 
and  difcolours  it,  efpecially  veal;  for  in  fiance, 
a  leg  of  veal  of  twelve  pounds  weight  will  re- 
quire three  hours  and  an  half  boiling,  the  flower 
it  boils  the  whiter  and  plumper  it  will  be;  when 
you  boil  mutton  or  beef,  obferve  to  dredge  them 
well  with  flour  before  you  put  them  into  the 
kettle  of  cold  water,  keep  it  covered,  and  take 
oft' the  fcum  :  mutton  or  beef  do  not  reauire  fo 
much  boiling,  nor  is  it  fo  great  a  fault  if  they 
are  a  little  fhort,  but  veal,  pork,  or  lamb,  are 
not  fo  wholefome  if  they  are  not  boiled  enough  ; 
a  leg  of  pork  will  require  half  an  hour  more 
boiling  than  a  leg  of  veal  of  the  fame  weight ; 
when  you  boil  beef  or  mutton,  you  may  allow 
an  hour  for  every  four  pounds  weight;  it  is  the 
beft;  way  to  put  in  your  meat  when  the  water  is 
cold,  it  gets  warm  to  the  heart  before  the  out- 
fide grows  hard,  a  leg  of  lamb  of  four  pounds 
weight  will  require,  an  hour  ai)d  a  half  boiling, 

WHEN  you  roafl;  any  kind  of  meat,  it  is  a 
yery  good  way  to  put  a  little  fait  and  water  in 

E  2  your 


$HE    EXP ERIENGED. 

■  r  your-  meat  a  little  wi  i 
-.•ell  with  nour,  h  e 
a 
better  colour;  obierve  always  to  nave  a  b  t 
ckar  fire,  it  will  prevent  your  m.at  from  dating 
and  the  froth  from  falling,  keep  it  a  good  dif* 
tance  from  the  fixe,  if  the  meat  is  fcorched  the 
ouffide  is  hard,  ana  prevents  the  heat  from  pe- 
netrating into  the  meat,  and  will  appear  enough 
before  it  be  little  more  than  hdf  ocne.  Time, 
diftance,  bafting  often,  and  a  clear  fire,  is  the 
beft  method  I  can  prefcribe  for  roaxing  meat  to 
perfection  $  w\e  \  the  fleam  draws  near  the  fire, 
it  is  a  fign  of  its  b-  mg  enough,  butyou  will  be 
the  beft  judge  of  that  horn  the  time  you  put  it 
down.  Be  careful,  when  you  roaft  any  kind  of 
wild  fowl  to  keep  a  clear  brifk  fire,  roaft  them 
a  light  brown,  but  not  too  much  :  it  is  a  great 
fault  to  roaft  them   till  the  gravy  runs  out  of 

them,   it  takes  off  the  fine  flavour.-- Tame 

fowls  require  more  roafting,'  they  are  a  long 
time  before  they  are  hot  through,  and  muft  be 
often  bafted  to  keep  up  a  ftrong  froth,  it  makes 

them  rife  better,  and  a  finer  colour.-- Pigs 

and  geefe  fhould  be  roafted  before  a  good  fire, 
and  turned  quick.—? — Hares  and  rabbits  re- 
quire time  and  care,  to  fee  the  ends  are  roafted 
enough,  when  they  are  half  roafted,  cut  the 
neck  fkin,  and  let  out  the  biood,  or  when  they 
are  cut  up  they  often  appear  bloody  at  the 
neck. 


r« 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      5$ 

To  roajl  a  Pig. 

STICK  your  pig  juft  above  the  breaft-bone, 
run  your  knife  to  the  heart,  when  it  is  dead 
put  it  in  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  rub 
it  over  with  a  little  refin  beat  exceeding  fine,  or 
its  own  blood,  put  your  pig  into  a  pail  of  fcald- 
ing  water  half  a  minute,    take  it  out    lay  it  on 
a  clean  table,  pull  off  the  hair  as  quick  as  poffi- 
ble,  if  it  does  not  come  clean  off  put  it  in  again, 
when  you  have  got  it  all   clean  off  wafa  it  in, 
warm  water,  then  in  two  or  three  cold  waters, 
for  fear  the  refin  fhould  tafte ;  take  off  the  four 
feet  at  the  firft  joint,  make  a  flit  down  the  bel- 
ly, take  out  all  the  entrails,  put  the  liver,  heart, 
and  lights  to  the  pettitoes,  waft  it  well  out  of 
cold  water,  dry  it  exceedingly  well  with  a  cloth, 
hang  it  up,  and  when  you  roaft  it,  put  in  a  little 
fhred  fage,  a  tea  fpoonf  ul  of  black  pepper,  two, 
of  fait,   and  a  cruft  of  brown  bread,    ipit  your?^ /*~*-f/^~ 
pig,  and  few  it  uj^flay  it  down  to  a  brifk  clear  ^^^^p 
fire,  with  a  pig-plate  hung  in  the  middle  of  the  *^»v?  ' 
iire;  when  your  pig  is  warm*  put  a  lump  of 
butter  in  a  cloth,  rub   your  pig  often  with  it 
while  it  is  roailing;  a  large  one  will  take  an 
hour  and  an  half:  when  your  pig  is  a  fine  brown, 
and  the  ileam  draws  near  the  nre,  take  a  clean 
cloth,  rub  your  pig  quite  dry,  then  rub  it  well, 
with  a  little  cold  butter,  it  will  help  to  enfp  it; 
then  take  a  fharp  knife,-  cut  off  the  head,  and 
take  off  the  collar,  then  take  off  the  ears  and 
jaw-bone,  fplit  the  jaw  in  two,  when  you  have 
cut   the   pig  down  the  back,  which  muft  be 
4one  before  you  draw  the  fpit  out,  then  lay  your 

E  4  pig 


56  THE  EXPERIENCED 

pig  back  to  back  on  your  difh,  and  the  jaw  on 
each  fide,  the  ears  on  each  fhoulder,  and  the 
collar  at  the  fhoulder,  and  pour  in  your  fauce, 
/and  ferve  it  up  :  garnifh  with  a  cruft  of  brown 
bread  grated. 

To  make  Sauce  for  a  Pig. 

CHOP  the  brains  a  little,  then  put  in  a  tea- 
cupful  of  white  gravy  with  the  gravy  that  runs 
out  of  the  pig,  a  little  bit  of  anchovy,  mix  near 
half  a  pound  of  butter,  with  as  much  flour  as 
will  thicken  the  gravy,  a  flice  of  lemon,  a  fpoon- 
ful  of  white  wine,  a  little  caper  liquor  and  fait, 
fhake  it  over  the  fire,  and  pour  it  into  your 
difh;  fome  like  currants,  boil  a  few  and  fend 
them  in  a  tea  faucer  with  a  glafs  of  currant  jelly 
in  the  middle  of  it. 

A  fecond  way  to  make  Pig  Sauce. 

CUT  all  the  outfide  off  a  penny  loaf,  then 
cut  it  into  very  thin  dices,  put  it  into  a  faucepan 
of  cold  water,  with  an  onion,  a  few  pepper 
corns,  and  a  little  fait,  boil  it  nntil  it  be  a  fine 
pulp,  then  beat  it  well,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of  thick 
cream,  make  it  hot,  and  put  it  into  a  bafon. 

To  drefs  a  Pig's  Pettitoes. 

TAKE  up  the  heart,  liver,  and  lights,  when 
they  have  boiled  ten  minutes,  and  Hired  them 
pretty  fmall,  but  let  the  feet  boil  till  they  are 
pretty  tender,   then    take    them  out  and    fplit 

them  ; 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       57 

them  ;  thicken  your  gravy  with  flour  and  but- 
ter, put  in  your  mincemeat,  a  flice  of  lemon,  a 
fpoonful  of  white  wine,  a  little  fait,  and  boil  it 
a  little ;  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  add  to  it  tjyo 
fpoonfuls  of  good  cream,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  put  in  your  pettitoes,  fhake  it  over 
the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  lay  fippets  round 
your  di(h,  pour  in  your  mincemeat,  lay,  the 
feet  over  them  the  (kin  fide  up,  and  fend  them 
to  the  table. 

To  boil  a  Goose  with  Onion  Sauce. 

TAKE  your  goofe  ready  drelTed,  finge  it  and 
pour  over  it  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  let  it  lie 
in  it  all  night,  then  take  it  out  and  dry  it  ex- 
ceeding well  with  a  cloth,  feafon  it  with  pepper 
and  fait,  chop  fmall  a  large  onion,  a  handful  of 
fage  leaves,  put  them  into  your  goofe,  few  it 
up  at  the  neck  and  vent,  hang  it  up  by  the  legs 
till  the  next  day,  then  put  it  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  cover  it  clofe,  and  let  it  boil  flowly  one 
hour. 

To  Jltw  Goose  Giblets. 

CUT  your  pinions  in  two,  the  neck  in  four 
pieces,  flice  the  gizzard,  clean  it  well,  flew 
them  in  two  quarts  of  water,  or  mutton  broth, 
with  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  one  anchovy, 
a  few  pepper  corns,  three  or  four  cloves,  a 
fpoonful  of  catchup,  and  an  onion  ;  when  the 
giblets  are  tender,  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  good 
cream,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  ferve 
them  up  in  a  foup  difh,  and  lay  fippets  round  it. 

To 


5§  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  roafl  a  Green  Goose. 

WHEN  your  goofe  is  ready  dreffed,  put  in 
a  good  lump  of  butler,  fpit  it,  lay  it  down, 
finge  k  well,  duft  it  with  flour,  bafte  it  well 
with  frefh  butter,  bafte  it  three  or  four  different 
times  with  cold  butter,  it  will  make  th~  flefh 
rife  better  $han  if  you  was  to  bafts  it  out  of  the 
dripping-p?n ;  if  it  is  a  large  one  it  will  take 
three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  roaft  it ;  when  you 
think  it  is  enough,  dredge  it  with  flour,  bafte  it 
till  it  is  a  fine  froth*  and  your  goofe  a  nice 
brown,  and  difh  it  up  with  a  little  brown  gravy 
under  it:  garnifh  with  a  cruft  of  bread  grated 
round  the  edge  of  your  difh. 

To  make  Sauce  for  a  Green  Goose. 

TAKE  fome  melted  butter,  put  in  a  fpoonful 
of  the  juice  of  forrel,  a  little  fugar,  a  ~zw  cod- 
led  gocfcberries,  pour  it  into  your  fauce- boats, 
and  fend  it  hot  to  the  table* 

To  roaji  a  Stubble  Goose. 

CHOP  a  few  fage  leaves,  and  two  onions 
very  fine,  mix  them  with  a  good  lump  of  but- 
ter, a  teafpooniul  of  pepper,  and  two  of  fait, 
Dut  it  in  your  goofe,  then  ipit  it  and  lay  it  down, 
Singe  it  wet],  duft  it  with  flour;  when  it  is 
thoroughly  hot, bafte  it  withfrefti  butter  :  if  it 
be  a  large  one  it  will  require  an  hour  and  a  half 
before  a  good  clear  fire;  when  it  is  enough, 
jdredge  and  bafte  it,  pull  out  the  Ipit,  and  pour 
in  a  little  boiling  waier. 

2j 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER;       59 

To  make  Sauce  for  a  Goose. 

PARE,  core,  and  flice  your  apples,  put 
them  in  a  faucepan  with  as  much  water  as 
will  keep  them  from  burning,  fet  them  over  a 
very  flow  fire,  keep  them  cloie  covered  till  they 
are  all  of  a  pulp,  then  put  in  a  lump  of  butter, 
and  fugar  to  your  tafle,  beat  them  well  and  fend 
them  to  the  table  in  a  china  bafon. 

To  boil  Ducks  with  Onion  Sauce. 

SCALD  and  draw  your  ducks,  put  them  in 
warm  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  take  them 
out,  pat  them  in  an  earthen  pot,  pour  over 
them  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  let  them  lie  in  it 
two  or  three  hours ;  when  you  take  them  out 
dredge  them  well  with  flour,  put  them  in  a 
copper  of  cold  water,  put  on  your  cover,  let 
them  boil  flowly  twenty  minutes,  then  take 
them  out,  and  fmother  them  with  onion  fauce. 

To  make  Onion  Sauce. 

BOIL  eight  or  ten  large  onions,  change  the 
water  two  or  three  times  while  they  are  boiling, 
when  enough  chop  them  on  a  board  to  keep 
them  from  growing  a  bad  colour,  put  them  in 
a  faucepan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
two  fpoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  boil  it  a  little, 
and  pour  it  over  the  ducks. 

To  reajl  Ducks. 

WHEN  you  have  killed  and  drawn  your 
ducks,  fhred  one  cnipn,  and  a  few  fage  leaves, 

put 


6o  THE   EXPERIENCED 

put  them  into  your  ducks  with  pepper  and  fait, 
fpit,  finge,  and  dull  them  with  flour,  bafle 
them  with  butter;  if  your  fire  be  very  hot  they 
will  be  roafted  in  twenty  minutes,  the  quicker 
they  are  roafted  the  better  they  eat;  jufl  before 
you  draw  them,  duft  them  with  flour,  and 
bafte  them  with  butter,  put  them  on  a  difh, 
have  ready  your  gravy  made  of  the  gizzards  and 
pinions,  a  large  blade  of  mace,  a  few  pepper 
corns,  a  fpoonful  of  catchup,  the  fame  of 
browning,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  and 
one  onion,  ftrain  it,  pour  it  on  your  difh,  and 
fend  onion  fauce  in  a  boat. 

To  boil  a  Turkey  with  Oyster  Sauce, 

LET  your  turkey  have  no  meat  the  day  be- 
fore you  kill  it,  when  you  are  going  to  kill  it 
give  it  a  fpoonful  of  allegar,  it  will  make  it 
white  and  eat  tender;  when  you  have  killed  it 
hang  it  up  by  the  legs  for  four  or  five  days  at 
leaft;  when  you  have  plucked  it  draw  it  at  the 
rump,  if  you  can  take  the  breaft-bone  out 
nicely  it  will  look  much  better,  cut  off  the  legs, 
put  the  end  of  the  thighs  into  the  body  of  the 
turkey,  fkewer  them  down,  and  tie  them  with 
a  firing,  cut  off  the  head  and  neck,  then  grate  a 
penny  loaf,  chop  a  fcore  or  more  of  oyfters  fine, 
fhreda  little  lemon  peel,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
fait  to  your  palate,  mix  it  up  into  a  light  force- 
meat with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a 
fpoonful  or  two  of  cream,  and  three  eggs,  fluff 
the  craw  with  it,  and  make  the  refl  into  balls 
and  boil  them ;  few  up  the  turkey,  dredge  it 

4  well 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       61 

well  with  flour,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  cold  wa- 
ter, cover  it,  and  fet  it  over  the  fire,  when  the 
fcum  begins  to  rife  take  it  off,  put  on  your 
cover,  let  it  boil  very  flowly  for  half  an  hour, 
then  take  off  your  kettle,  and  keep  it  clofe 
covered,  if  it  be  of  a  middle  fize  let  it  fland 
half  an  hour  in  the  hot  water,  the  fleam  being 
kept  in  will  flew  it  enough,  make  it  rife,  keep 
the  fkin  whole,  tender,  and  very  white ;  when 
you  difh  it  up,  pour  over  it  a  little  of  your  oyfter 
fauce,  lay  your  balls  round  it,  and  ferve  it  up 
with  the  reft  of  your  fauce  in  a  boat :  garniih 
with  lemon  and  barberries. — N.  B.  Obferve  to 
fet  on  your  turkey  in  time,  that  it  may  flew  as 
above :  it  is  the  beft  way  I  ever  found  to  boil 
one  to  perfection  :  when  you  are  going  to  difh  it 
up,  fet  it  over  the  fire  to  make  it  quite  hot. 

To  make  Sauce  for  a  Turkey. 

AS  you  open  your  oyflers,  put  a  pint  into  a 
bafon,  wafh  them  out  of  their  liquor,  and  put 
them  in  another  bafon  :  when  the  liquor  is  let- 
tied,  pour  it  clean  off  into  a  faucepan,  with  a 
little  white  gravy,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  a  good  lump 
of  butter,  boil  it  three  or  four  minutes,  put  in  a 
fpoonful  of  good  thick  cream,  put  in  your 
oyflers,  keep  fhaking  them  over  the  fire  till 
they  are  quite  hot,  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  it 
will  make  them  hard  and  look  little. 

Afecondway  to  make  Sauce  for  a  Turkey. 

CUT  a  fcrag  end  of  a  neck  of  veal  in  pieces, 
put  them    in  a  faucepan,  with"  two    or  three 

blades 


62  THE   EXPERIENCED 

blades  of  mace,  one  anchovy,  a  few  flicks  of 
celery,  a  little  Chyan.  and  fait,  a  glafs  of  white 
Vine*  a  fpoonful  cf  lemon  pickle,  a  tea  ft  oonful 
of  muihroom  powder  or  catchup,  a  quart  of 
water,  put  on  your  cover,  and  let  it  boil  until  it 
be  reduced  to  a  pint,  ftrain  it,  and  thicken  it 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour, f  boil  it  a  little,  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  thick 
Cream,  and  pour  it  over  the  turkey. 

To  roaft  a  Turkey. 

WHEN  you  have  dreffed  your  turkey  as 
before,  trufs  its  head  down  to  the  legs,  theri 
make  your  forcemeat,  take  the  crumbs  of  a 
penny  loaf,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  fuet 
fhred  fine,  a  little  faufage  meat,  or  veal  fcraped 
and  pounded  exceeding  fine,  nutmeg,  pepper* 
and  fait  to  your  palate,  mix  it  up  lightly  with 
three  eggs,  fluff  the  craw  with  it,  fpit  it,  and 
lay  it  down  a  good  diflance  from  the  fire,  keep  it 
clear  and  brifk,  finge,  duft,  and  bafle  it  feveral 
times  with  coid  butter,  it  makes  the  froth: 
ilronger  than  bafling  it  with  the  hot  out  of  the 
dripping-pan,  and  makes  the  turkey  rife  better : 
when  it  is  enough,  froth  it  up  as  before,  dilh  it 
up,  pour  on  your  difh  the  fame  gravy  as  for  the 
boiled  turkey,  only  put  in  browning  inftead  of 
cream  :  garnifh  with  lemon  and  pickles,  and 
ferve  it  up;  if  it  be  a  middle  fize  it  will  re- 
quire one  hour  and  a  quarter  reading. 

To  make  Sauce  for  a  Turkey. 

CUT  the  cruris  off  a  penny  loaf,  cut  the  reft 
in  thin  flices,  put  it  in  cold  water,   with  a  few 

pepper 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER:       6$ 

pepper  corns,  a  little  fait  and  onion,  boil  it  till 
the  bread  is  quite  foft,  then  beat  it  well,  put  in 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  fpoonfuls 
of  thick  cream,  and  put  it  into  a  bafon. 

To  boil  Fowls. 

WHEN  you  have  plucked  your  fowls,  draw 
them  at  the  rump,  cut  off  the  head,  neck,  and 
legs,  take  the  breaft-bone  very  carefully  out* 
fkewer  them  with  the  end  of  their  legs  in  the 
body,  tie  them  round  with  a  firing,  finge,  and 
duft  them  well  with  flour,  put  them  in  a  kettle 
of  cold  water,  cover  it  clofe,  fet  it  on  the  fire, 
when  the  fcum  begins  to  rife  take  it  off,  put 
on  your  cover,  and  let  them  boil  very  flowly 
twenty  minutes,  take  them  off,  cover  them  clofe, 
and  the  heat  of  the  water  will  ftew  them  enough 
in  half  an  hour;  it  keeps  the  fkin  whole,  and 
they  will  be  both  whiter  and  plumper  than  if 
they  had  boiled  faft ;  when  you  take  them  up, 
drain  them,  pour  over  them  white  fauce,  or 
melted  butter. 

To  make  White  SAUCE^r  Fowls, 

TAKE  a  fcrag  of  veal,  the  necks  of  the 
fowls,  or  any  bits  of  mutton  or  veal  you  have, 
put  them  in  a  fauce-pan,  with  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,  a  few  black  pepper  corns,  one  anchovy, 
a  head  of  celery,  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs,  a  flice 
of  the  end  of  a  lemon,  put  in  a  quart  of  water, 
cover  it  clofe,  let  it  boil  till  it  is  reduced  to  half 
a  pint,  ftrain  it,  and  thicken  it  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  mixed  with  flour,  boil  it 

*  five 


6+  THE    EXPERIENCED 

five  or  fix  minutes,  put  in  two  fpoonfuls  of 
pickled  mufhrooms,  mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
with  a  tea  cupful  of  good  cream  and  a  little 
nutmeg,  put  in  your  iauce,  keep  making  it 
over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 

To  roajl  large  Fowls. 

TAKE  your  fowls  when  they  are  ready 
dreflfed,  put  them  down  to  a  good  fire,  finge, 
duft,  and  bafte  them  well  with  butter,  they  will 
be  near  an  hour  in  roafting,  make  a  gravy  of 
the  necks  and  gizzards,  ftrain  it,  put  in  a  fpoon- 
ful  of  browning  $  when  you  diih  them  up,  pour 
the  gravy  into  the  dim,  ferve  them  up  wTith  egg 
iauce  in  a  boat. 

To  make  Egg  Sauce. 

BOIL  two  eggs  hard,  half  chop  the  whites, 
then  put  in  the  yolks,  chop  them  both  toge- 
ther, but  not  very  fine,  put  them  into  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  good  melted  butter,  and  put  it 
in  a  boat. 

To  boil  young  Chickens. 

PUT  your  chickens  in  fcalding  water,  as 
foon  as  the  feathers  will  flip  off  take  them  out, 
or  it  will  make  the  (kin  hard  and  break,  when 
you  have  drawn  them  lay  them  in  fkimmed  milk 
for  two  hours,  then  trufs  them  with  their  heads 
on  their  wings,  finge  and  duft  them  well  with 
flour,  put  ihemin  cold  water,  cover  them  clofe, 
fet  them  over  a  very  flow  fire,  take  off  the  fcum, 
let  them  boil  flowly  for  five  or  fix  minutes,  take 

them 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  €5 
them  off  the  fire,  keep  them  clofe  covered  in 
the  water  for  half  an  hour,  it  will  ftew  them 
enough,  and  make  them  both  white  and  plump  ; 
when  you  are  going  to  difh  them,  fet  them 
over  the  fire  to  make  them  hot,  drain  them, 
pour  over  them  white  fauce  made  the  fame  way 
as  for  the  boiled  fowls. 

To  roaft young  Chickens. 

WHEN  you  roaft  young  chickens,  pluck 
them  very  carefully,  draw  them,  only  cut  off 
the  claws,  trufs  them,  and  put  them  down  to  a 
good  fire,  finge,  duft,  and  bafte  them  with  but- 
ter ;  they  will  take  a  quarter  of  an  hour  re  aft- 
ing,  then  froth  them  up,  lay  them  on  your  difh, 
pour  butter  and  parfley  in  the  difh,  and  ferve 
them  up  hot. 

To  roaft  Pheasants  or  Partridges. 

WHEN  you  roaft  pheafants  or  partridges, 
keep  them  at  a  good  diftance  from  the  fire,  dull 
them,  and  bafte  them  often  with  frefh  butter; 
if  your  fire  is  good,  half  an  hour  will  roaft  them  - 
put  a  little  gravy  in  the  difh,  made  of  a  fcra£ 
of  mutton,  a  fpoonful  of  catchup,  the  fame  of 
browning,  and  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle 
ftrain  it,  difh  them  up,  with  bread  fauce,  in  a 
baton,  made  the  fame  way  as  for  the  boiled  tur- 

*?;—?'  B'  Whcn  the  Phealant  is  rafted, 
itick  feathers  on  the  tail  before  you  fend  it  to 
the  table. 


T$ 


€6  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  roaft  Ruffs  and  Rees. 

THESE  birds  I  never  met  with  but  in  Lin- 
colnftiire ;  the   beft  way  is  to  feed  them  with 
■white  bread  boiled  in  milk,  they  muft  have  fe-    . 
parate  pots,   for   two  will  not  eat  out  of  one, 
they  will  be  fat  in  eight  or  ttn  days  ;  when  you 
kill  them,  flip  the  fkin  off  the  head  and  neck 
with  the  feathers  on,  then  pluck  and  draw  them; 
when  you  roaft  them,  put  them  a  good  diftance 
from  the  fire,  if  the  fire  be  good  they  will  take 
about  twelve   minutes,  when  they   are  roafted 
flip  the  ikin  on  again  with  the  feathers  on,  fend 
them  up  with  gravy  under  them,  made  the  fame 
as  for  the  pheafant,  and  bread  fauce  in  a  boat, 
and  crifp  crumbs  of  bread  round  the  edge  of  the 
difh. 

To  roaft  Woodcocks  or  Snipes. 

PLUCK  them,  but  do  not  draw  them,  put 
them  on  a  fmall  fpit,  duft  and  bafte  them  well 
with  butter,  toaft  a  few  flices  of  a  penny  loaf, 
put  them  on  a  clean  plate,  and  fet  it  under  the^ 
birds  while  they  are  roafting,  if  the  fire  be  good 
they  will  take  about  ten  minutes  roafting  -,  when 
you  draw  them  lay  them  upon  the  toads  on  the  I 
dilh  -P  pour  melted  butter  round  them,  and  fervc 
them  up. 

To  roaft  Wild  Ducks  or  Teal. 

WHEN  your  ducks  are  ready  dreffed,  put  in 

them  a  fmall  onion,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  fpoon- 

ful  of  red  wine,  if  the  fire  be  good  they  will 

*  roaft 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       6y 

roaft  in  twenty  minutes,  make  gravy  of  the 
necks  and  gizzards,  a  fpoonful  of  red  wine,  half 
an  anchovy,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  flice  of 
an  end  of  a  lemon,  one  onion,  and  a  little  Chyan 
pepper,  boil  it  till  it  is  wailed  to  half  a  pint, 
ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  put  in  a  fpoonful 
of  browning,  pour  it  on  your  ducks,  ferve  them 
up  with  onion  fauce  in  a  boat :  garniih  your  difti 
with  rafpings  of  bread. 

To  ^//Pigeons. 

SCALD  your  pigeons,  draw  them,  take  the 
craw  clean  out,  wa(h  them  in  feveral  waters, 
cut  off  the  pinions,  turn  the  legs  under  the 
wings,  dredge  them,  and  put  them  in  foft  cold 
water,  boil  them  very  flowly  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
di(h  them  up,  pour  over  them  good  melted  but- 
ter, lay  round  them  a  little  brocoli  in  bunches, 
and  fend  butter  and  parfley  in  a  boat. 

To  roajl  Pigeons. 

WHEN  you  have  drefTed  your  pigeons,  as  be- 
fore, roll  a  good  lump  ot  butter  in  chopped  par- 
fley, with  pepper  and  fait,  put  in  your  pi- 
geons, fpit,  duft,  and  bafte  them  ;  if  the  fire 
be  good  they  will  be  roafted  in  twenty  minutes ; 
when  they  are  enough  lay  round  them  bunches 
of  afparagus,  with  parfley  and  butter  for  fauce. 

To  roaft  Larks. 

PUT  a  dozen  of  larks  on  a  fkewer,  tie  it  to 
the  fpit  at  both  ends,  dredge  and  bafte  them, 
let  them  roaft  ten  minutes,  take  the  crumbs  of  a 

F  2  :         half- 


65  THE    EXPERIENCED 

half-penny  loaf,  with  apiece  of  butter  thefize 
of  a  walnut,  put  it  in  a  toffing  pan,  and  make  it 
over  a  gentle  fire  till  they  are  a  light  brown,  lay 
them  betwixt  your  birds,  and  pour  over  them  a 
little  melted  butter. 

To  <W/ Rabbits. 

WHEN  you  have  cafed  your  rabbits,  fkewer 
them  with  their  heads  ftfaight  up,  the  fore-legs 
brought  down,  and  the  hind-legs  ftraight,  boil 
them  three  quarters  of  an  hour  at  leaft,  then 
fmother  them  with  onion  fauce,  made  the  fame 
as  for  boiled  ducks,  pull  out  the  jaw  bones,  ftick 
them  in  their  eyes,  put  a  fprig  of  myrtle  or  bar- 
berries in  their  mouths,  and  ferve  them  up. 

To  roafl  Rabbits. 

WHEN  you  have  cafed  your  rabits,  fkewer 
their  heads  with  their  mouths  upon  their  backs, 
ftick  their  fore-legs  into  their  ribs,  fkewer  the 
hind-legs  double,  then  make  a  pudding  for  them 
of  the  crumbs  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  par- 
fle-y,  fweet  marjoram,  thyme,  and  lemon  peel, 
all  fhred  fine,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
tafte,  mix  them  up  into  a  light  fluffing,  with  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  little  good  cream, 
and  two  eggs,  put  it  into  the  belly,  and  few  them 
up,  dredge,  and  bafte  them  well  with  butter, 
road  them  near  an  hour,  ferve  them  up  with  par- 
fley  and  butter  for  fauce,  chop  the  livers  and  lay 
them  in  lumps  round  the  edge  of  your  difh. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       69 

To  roajl  a  Hare. 

SKEWER  your  hare  with   the  head  upon 

one   fhoulder,  the  fore  legs  (tuck  into  the  ribs, 

the  hind-legs  double,  make  your  pudding  of  the 

crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 

of  beef  marrow  or  fuet,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 

of  butter,  fhred    the  liver,  a  fprig  or  two  of 

winter  favory,  a  little  lemon  peel,  one  anchovy, 

a  little  Chyan  pepper,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  mix 

them  up  in  alight  forcemeat,  with  aglafsofred 

wine,  and  two  eggs,  put  it  in  the  belly  of  your 

hare,  few  it   up,  put  a  quart   of  good  milk  in 

your  dripping  pan,  bafte  your  hare  with  it  till  it 

is  reduced  to  half  a  gill,  then  duft  and  bafte  it 

well   with    butter,    if  it  be  a  large  one,  it  will 

require  an  hour  and  a  half  roafting. 

To  boil  a  Tongue. 

IF  your  tongue  be  a  dry  one,  deep  it  in  water 
all  night,  then  boil  it  three  hours,  if  you  would 
have  it  eat  hot,  flick  it  with  cloves,  rub  it  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  ftrew  over  it  bread 
crumbs,  bafte  it  with  butter,  fet  it  before  the  fire 
till  it  is  a  light  brown;  when  you  dim  it  up, 
pour  a  little  brown  gravy,  or  red  wine  fauce, 
mixed  the  fame  way  as  for  venifon,  lay  dices  of 

currant  jelly  round  it, N.  B.   If  it  be  a 

pickled  one,  only  warn  it  out  of  water. 

To  boil  a  Ham. 

STEEP  your  ham  all  night  in  water,   the;i 
boil  it ;  if  it  be  of  a  middle  fize,   it  will  take 

F  2  three 


70  THE  EXPERIENCED 

three  hours  boiling,  and  a  fmall  one  two  hours 
and  a  half ;  when  you  take  it  up,  pull  off  the 
{kin,  and  rub  it  all  over  with  an  egg,  flrew  on 
bread  crumbs,  bafte  it  with  butter,  fetit  to  the 
lire  till  it  be  a  light  brown  ;  if  it  be  to  eat  hot, 
garnifh  with  carrots  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  roaft  a  Haunch  0/*  Venison. 

WHEN  you  have  fpitted  your  venifon,  lay 
over  it  a  large  (beet  of  paper,  then  a  thin  com- 
mon pafte  with  another  paper  over  it,  tie  it  well 
to  keep  the  pafte  from  falling,  if  it  be  a  large  one 
it  will  take  four  hours  roaffing ;  when  it  is 
enough  take  off  the  paper  and  pafte,  duft  it  well 
with  flour,  and  bafte  it  with  butter  j  when  it  is 
a  light  brown,  diih  it  up  with  brown  gravy  in 
your  di(h,  or  currant  jelly  fauce,  and  fend  fome 
in  a  boat. 

To  broil Beef  Steaks, 

CUT  your  fteaks  off  a  rump  of  beef  about 
half  an  inch  thick,  let  your  fire  be  clear,  rub 
your  girdiron  well  with  beef  fuet,  when  it  is 
hot  lay  them  on,  let  them  broil  until  they  begin 
to  brown,  turn  them,  and,  when  the  dtner  iide 
is  brown,  lay  them  on  a  hot  diih,  with  a  {lice  of 
butter  betwixt  every  fteak  >,  fprinklea  little  pep- 
per and  fait  over  them,  let  them  ftand  two  or 
three  minutes,  then  flice  a  (halot  (as  thin  as  pof- 
fible)  into  a  fpoonful  of  water,  lay  on  your  fteaks 
again,  keep  turning  them  till  they  are  enough, 
put  them  on  your  dim,  pour  the  fhalot  and 
wafer  amongft  them,  and  fend  them  to  the  table. 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      71 

A  very  good  way  to  fry  Beef  Steaks. 

CUT  your  fteaks  as  for  broiling,  put  them 
into  a  ftew-pan  with  a  flood  lump  of  butter,  fet 
them  over  a  very  flow  fire,  keep  turning  them 
till  the  butter  is  become  a  thick  white  gravy, 
pour  it  into  a  bafon,  and  pour  more  butter  to 
them;  when  they  are  almoft  enough,  pour-all 
the  gravy  into  your  bafon,  and  put  more  butter 
into  your  pan,  fry  them  a  light  brown  over  a 
quick  fire,  take  them  out  of  the  pan,  put  them 
in  a  hot  pewter  difh,  flice  a  lhalot  among  them, 
put  a  little  in  your  gravy  that  was  drawn  from 
them,  and  pour  it  hot  upon  them  :  I  think  this 
is  the  bed:  way  of  drefling  beef  fteaks.  Haifa 
pound  of  butter  will  drefs  a  large  difti. 

Tlo  drefs  Beef  Steaks  a  common  way. 

FRY  your  fteaks  in  butter  a  good  brown, 
then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  water,  an  onion  fliced, 
a  fpoonful  of  walnut  catchup,  a  little  caper 
li  uor,  pepper  and  fait,  cover  them  clofe  with 
a  difii,  and  let  them  ftew  gently ;  when  they 
are  enough,  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and 
butter  andferve  them  up. 

To  broil  Mutton  Steaks. 

CUT  your  fteaks  half  an  inch  thick,  when 
your  gridiron  is  hot  rub  it  with  frefli  iuet,  lay 
on  your  fteaks,  keep  turning  them  as  quick  as 
poffible,  if  you  do  not  take  great  care  the  fat  that 
drops  from  the  fteak  will  fmoke  them  ;  when 
they  are  enough,  put  them  into  a  hot  di£h,  rub 
■   F  4  them 


72  THE   EXPERIENCED 

them  well  with  butter,  flice  a  fhalot  very  thin 
into  a  fpoonful  of  water,  pour  it  on  them  with 
a  fpconful  of  mufliroom  catchup  and  fait,  ferve 
them  up  hot. 

To  broil  Pork  Steaks. 

OBSERVE  the  fame  as  for  the  mutton  fteaks, 

only  pork   requires  more  broiling  ;  when  they 

are  enough  put  in  a  little  good  gravy ;  a  lirtle 

fage  rubbed  very   fine  ftrewed  over  them  gives 

them  a  fine  tafte. 

■ 

To  hajh  Beef. 

CUT  your  i>eef  in  very  thin  flices,  take  a 
little  of  your  gravy  that  runs  from  it,  put  it  into 
a  toiling  pan  with  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle, 
a  large  one  of  walnut  catchup,  the  fame  of 
browning,  (lice  a  fhalot  in,  and  put  it  over  the 
fire;  when  it  boils  put  in  your  beef;  fhake  it 
over  the  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot,  the  gravy  is  not 
to  be  thickened,  flice  in  a  fmall  pickle  cucum- 
ber ;  garnifh  with  fcrapped  horfe-radifh  or  pick- 
led onions. 


To  hajh  Venison, 


CUT  your  venifon  in  thin  flices,  put  a.  large 
glafs  of  red  wine  into  a  tofiing  pan,  a  fpoonful 
of  mufhroom  catchup,  the  fame  of  browning, 
an  onion  ftuck  with  cloves,  and  half  an  anchovy 
chopped  fmall;  when  it  boils,  put  in  your  veni- 
fon, let  it  boil  three  or  four  minutes,  pour  it 
into  a  foupd:fh,  and  lay  round  it  currant  jelly, 


or  red  cabbage, 


To 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       73 

To  hap  Mutton. 

CUT  your  mutton  in  flices,  put  a  pint  of 
gravy  or  broth  into  a  toiling  pan,  with  one 
fpoonful  of  mumroorn  catchup,  and  one  of 
browning,  ilice  in  an  onion,  a  little  pepper  and 
fait,  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  thicken  it  with 
fiourand  butter  -,  when  it  boils  put  in  your  mut- 
ton, keep  fhaking  it  till  it  is  thoroughly  hot, 
put  it  in  a  foup  difh  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  hajh  Veal. 

CUT  your  veal  in  thin  round  flices,  the  fize 
cf a  half  crown,  put  them  into  a  faucepan,  with 
2  little  gravy  and  lemon  peel  cut  exceeding  fine, 
a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  put  it  over  the 
fire,  and  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter  ;  when 
it  boil*  put  in  your  veal,  juft  before  you  difh  it 
up  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  cream,  lay  fippets  round 
your  difh  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  warm  up  Scotch  Collops. 
WHEN  you  have  any  Scotch  collops  left, 
put  them  into  a  ftone  jar  till  you  want  them, 
then  put  the  jar  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  let 
it  ftand  till  your  collops  are  quite  hot,  then  pour 
them  into  a  difh,  lay  over  them  a  few  broiled 
bits  of  bacon,  and  they  will  eat  as  well  as  frefh 
ones* 

To  mince  Veal. 
CUT  your  veal  in  flices,  then  cut  it  in  little 
fquare  bits,  but  do  not  chop  it, put  it  into  afauce- 

pan 


74  THE    EXPERIENCED 

pan  with  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  gravy,  a  ilicfc 
of  lemon,  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  a  good  lump 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon 

pickle,  and  a  large  fpoonful  of  cream ;  keep 
fhaking  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil  above  a  minute,  if  you  do  it  will  make 
your  veal  eat  hard:  put  lappets  round  your'diih 

and  ferve  it  up. 

To  hafid  £  Turkey. 

TAKE  off  the  legs,  cut  the  thighs  in  two 
pieces,  cut  off  the  pinions  and  breait  in  pretty 
large  pieces,  take  off  the  fldn  or  it  will  give  the 
gravy  a  greafy  tafte,  put  it  into  a  ftew-pan,  with 
a  pint  of  gravy,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle, 
a  ilice  of  the  end  of  a  lemon,  and  a  little  beafen 
mace;  boil  your  turkey  fix  or  feven  minutes 
you  boil  it  any  longer  it  will  make  it  hard  ■  ! 
put  it  on  your  dim,  thicken  your  gravj  i 
flour  and  butter,    mix  the  yoiks  of  s 

with' a  fpoonful  of  thick  cream,  put  it  in     our 
gravy,  make  it  over  your  fire  till  it  is  quite  hot, 
t>ut  do  net  let  it  boil,  drain  it,  and  pv>u>  it   >ver" 
yoiyturkey  :   lay  fippets  round,  ferve  it  up,  and 
garnim  with  lemon  or  pariiey. 


cr, 
i 


'o  hajlo  Fowls. 

CUT  up  your  fowl  as  for  eating,  put  it  in  a 
toiling  pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  tea 
fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  little  muihroom 
catchup,  a  ilice  of  lemon,  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter ;  juft  before  you  diih  it  up  put  in  a 

ijpoonful 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       75 

fpoonful  of  good  cream ;  lay  fippets  round  your 
difh  and  ferve  it  up. 

A  nice  way  to  drefs  a  Cold  Fowl. 

PEEL  off  all  the  fkin,  and  pull  the  flefh  off 
the  bones  in  as  large  pieces  as  you  can,  then 
dredge  it  with  a  little  flour,  and  fry  it  a  nice 
brown  in  butter,  tofs  it  up  in  rich  gravy,  well 
feafoned,  and  thicken  it  with  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour :  juft  before  you  fend  it  up  fqueeze 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

To  hajh  a  Woodcock,  or  Partridge, 

CUT  your  woodcock  up  as  for  eating,  work 
the  entrails  very  fine  with  the  back  of  a  fpoon, 
mix  it  with  a  fpoonful  of  red  wine,  the  fame  of 
water,  half  a  fpoonful  of  allegar,  cut  an  onion  in. 
flices  and  pull  it  into  rings,  roll  a  little  butter  in 
flour,  put  them  all  in  your,  tcfling  pan,  and 
thake  it  over  the  fire  till  it  boils,  then  put  in  your 
woodcock,  and  when  it  is  thoroughly  hot,  lay 
it  in  your  oifh  with  fippets  round  it,  itrain  the 
fauce  over  the  woodcock,  and  lay  on  the  onion 
in  rings  \  it  is  a  pretty  corner  difh  for  dinner  or 
fupper. 

To  bafh  a  Wild  Ditck. 

CUT  up  your  duck  as  for  eating,  put  it  in 
a  toffing  pan,  with  a  fpoonful  of  good  gravy, 
the  fame  of  red  wine,  a  little  of  your  onion 
fauce,  or  an  onion  fliced  exceeding  thin  j  when 
it  has  boiled  two  or  three  minutes,  lay  the  duck 

is 


yG  THE   EXPERIENCED 

in  your  difh,  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  it  mull  not 
be  thickened,  you  may  add  a  tea  fpoonful  of 
caper  liquor,  or  a  little  browning. 

To  hajlo  a  Hare. 

Cut  your  hare  in  fmall  pieces,  if  you  have 
any  of  the  pudding  left,  rub  it  fmall,  put  to  it  a 
large  glafs  of  red  wine,  the  fame  quantity  of 
water,  half  an  anchovy  chopped  fmall,  an  onion 
ffcuck  with  four  cloves,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  (hake  them  all  together 
over  a  flow  fire,  till  your  hare  is  thoroughly 
hot,  it  is  a  bad  cuftom  to  let  any  kind  of  hafh 
boil  longer  (it  makes  the  meat  eat  hard) 
fend  your  hare  to  the  table  in  a  deep  difh,  lay 
fippets  round  it,  but  take  out  the  onion,  and 
ferve  it  up. 

To  boil  Cabbage. 

CUT  off  the  outfide  leaves,  and  cut  it  in  quar- 
ters, pick  it  well,  and  wafli  it  clean,  boil  it  in 
n  large  quantity  of  water,  with  plenty  of  fait  in 
it ;  when  it  is  tender,  and  a  fine  light  green,  lay 
it  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  but  don't  fqueeze  it,  if  you 
do,  it  will  take  off  the  flavour ^  have  ready  fome 
very  rich  melted  butter,  or  chop  it  with  cold 
butter. r — Greens  mull  be  boiled  the  fame  way. 

To  boil  a  COLLYFLOWER. 

WASH  and  clean  your  colly  flower,  boil  it 
in  plenty  of  milk  and  water  (but  no  fait)  till 
it  be  tender;  when  you  difh  it  up,  lay  greens 
under  it;  pour  over  it  good  melted  butter,  and 
fend  it  up  hot. 

To 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      77 

To  boil  Brocoli  in  Imitation  of  Asparagus. 
TAKE  the  fide  moots  of  brocoli,  ftrip  off  the 
leaves,  and  with  a  pen-knife  take  off  all  the  cut- 
rind  up  to  the  heads,  tie  them  in  bunches,  and 
put  them  in  fait  and  water,  have  ready  a  pan 
of  boiling  water,  with  a  handful  of  fait  in  it,boil 
them  ten  minutes;  then  lay  them  in  bunches, 
and  pour  over  them  good  melted  butter. 

To  Jiew  Spinage. 

WASH  your  fpinage  well  in  feveral  waters, 
put  it  in  a  cullendar,  have  ready  a  large  pan  of 
ooiling  water,  with  a  handful  of  fait,  put  it  in, 
let  it  boil  two  minutes,  it  will  take  off  the 
ftrong  earthy  tafte,  then  put  it  into  a  fieve, 
fqueeze  it  well,  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  but- 
ter into  a  toffing  pan,  put  in  your  fpinage,  keep 
turning  and  chopping  it  with  a  knife  until  it  be 
quite  dry  and  green,  lay  it  upon  a  plate,  prefs  it 
with  another,  cut  it  in  the  ihape  of  fippets  or 
diamonds,  pour  round  it  very  rich  melted  butter, 
it  will  eat  exceeding  mild,  and  quite  a  different 
tafte  from  the  common  way. 

To  boil  Artichokes. 

IF  they  are  young  ones,  leave  about  an  inch  of 
the  ftalks,  put  them  in  a  ftrong  fait  and  water  for 
an  hour  or  two,  then  put  them  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  fet  them  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  cover 
them,  it  will  takeoff  their  colour;  when  you  difh. 
them  up,  put  rich  melted  butter,  in  fmall  cups 
or  pots,  like  rabbits,  put  them  in  the  difh  with 
your  artichokes,  and  fend  them  up. 

To 


78  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  boil  Asparagus. 

SCRAPE  your  afparagus,  tie  them  in  fmall 
bunches,  boll  them  in  a  large  pan  of  water  with 
fait  in  it;  before  you  cifh  them  up  toaft  fome 
ilices  of  white  bread,  and  dip  them  in  the  boil- 
ing water,  lay  the  afparagus  on  your  toads, 
pour  on  them  very  rich  melted  butter,  and  ferve 
them  up  hot. 

To  boil  French  Beans. 

CUT  the  ends  of  your  beans  off,  then  cut 
them  flant-ways,  put  them  in  a  ftrong  fait  and 
water,  as  you  do  them,  let  them  ftand  an  hour, 
boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  water  with  a 
handful  of  fait  in  it,  they  will  be  a  fine  green; 
when  you  difh  them  up,  pour  on  them  melted 
butter,  and  fend  them  up. 

To  boil  Windsor  Beans. 

BOIL  them  in  a  good  quantity  of  fait  and 
water,  boil  and  chop  fome  parfley,  put  it  in 
good  melted  butter ;  ferve  them  up  with  bacon 
in  the  middle  if  you  choofe  it. 

To  boil  Green  Pease. 

SHELL  your  peafe  juft  before  you  want 
them,  put  them  into  boiling  water,  with  a  lit- 
tle fait  and  a  lump  of  loaf  fugar,  when  they 
begin  to  dent  in  the  middle  they  are  enough, 
firain  them  in  a  fieve,  put  a  good  lump  of  bai- 
ter into  a  mug,  give  your  peafe  a  (hake,  put 
3  them 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  79 
them  on  a  difli,  and  fend  them  to  the  table. — . 
Boil  a  fprig  of  mint  in  another  water,  chop  it 
fine,  and  lay  it  in  lumps  round  the  edge  of  your 
difli. 

To  boil  Parsnips. 

WASH  your  parfnips  very  well,  boil  them 
till  they  are  foft,  then  take  off"  the  fltia,  beat 
them  in  a  bowl  with  a  little  fait,  put  to  them  a 
little  cream  and  a  lump  of  butter,  put  them  in 
a  tofiing  pan,  and  let  them  boil  till  they  are  like 
a  light  cuftard  pudding,  put  them  on  a  plate, 
and  fend  them  to  the  table. 


CHAP    IV. 
O6firvations  on  Made  Dishes. 

BE  careful  the  toiling  pan  is  well  tinned, 
quite  clean,  and  not  gritty,  and  put  every 
ingredient  into  your  white  fauce,  and  have  it  of 
a  proper  thicknefs,  and  well  boiled,  before  you 
put  in  eggs  and  cream/  for  they  will  not  add 
much  to  the  thicknefs,  nor  ftir  them  with  a 
fpoon  after  they  are  in,  nor  fet  your  pan  on  the 
fire,  for  it  will  gather  at  the  bottom  and  be  in 
lumps,  but  hold  your  pan  a  good  height  from 
the  fire,  and  keep  ihaking  the  pan  round  one 
way,  it  will  keep  the  fauce  from  curdling,  and 
be  fureyou  do  not  let  it  boil;  it  is  the  belt  way 
to  take  up  your  meat,  collops,  or  hafh,  or  any 

other 


So  THE   EXPERIENCED 

other  kind  of  dim  you  are  making  with  a  fifli 
ilice,  and  ftrain  your  fauce  upon  it,  for  it  is 
almoft  impoffible  to  prevent  little  bits  of  meat 
from  mixing  with  the  fauce,  and  by  this  mea- 
thod  the  fauce  will  look  clear. 

In  the  brown  made  dimes  take  fpecial  care  no 
fat  is  on  the  top  of  the  gravy,  but  fkim  it  clean 
oft,  and  that  it  be  of  a  fine  brown,  and  tafte  of 
no  one  thing  in  particular;  if  you  ufe  any  wine 
put  it  in  fome  time  before  your  dim  is  ready, 
to  take  off  the  rawnefs,  for  nothing  can  give  a 
made  dilh  a  more  difagreeable  tafte  than  raw 
wine,  or  frefh  anchovy :  when  you  ufe  fryed 
forcemeat  balls,  put  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain  the 
fat  from  them,  and  never  let  them  boil  in  your 
fauce,  it  will  give  them  a  greafy  look,  and  foften 
the  balls;  the  beft  way  is  to  put  them  in  after 
your  meat  is  difhed  up. 

You  may  ufe  pickled  mumrooms,  artichoke 
bottoms,  morels,  truffles,  and  forcemeat  balls 
in  almoft  every  made  difh,  and  in  feveral  you 
may  ufe  a  roll  of  forcemeat  inftead  of  balls,  as 
in  the  porcupine  breaft  of  veal,  and  where  you 
can  ufe  it,  it  is  much  handfomer  than  balls, 
efpecially  in  a  mock  turtle,  collared  or  ragooed 
breaft  of  veal,  or  any  large  made  dim. 

To  make  Lemon  Pickle. 
TAKE  two  dozen  of  lemons,  grate  off  the 
out-rinds  very  thin,  cut  them  in  four  quarters, 
but  leave  the  bottoms  whole,  rub  on  them 
equally  half  a  pound  of  bay  fait,  and  fpread 
them  on  a  large  pewter  difh,  put  them  in  a 
cool  oven,  or  let  them  dry  gradually  by  the  fire 

till 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER;      81' 

till  all  the  juice  is  dried  into  the  peels,  then  put 
them  into  a  pitcher  well  glazed ;  with  one 
ounce  of  mace>  half  an  ounce  of  cloves  beat  fine, 
one  ounce  of  nutmeg  cut  in  thin  dices,  four 
ounces  of  garlick  peeled,  half  a  pint  of  muf- 
tard  feed  bruifed  a  little,  and  tied  in  a  muflin 
bag,  pour  two  quarts  of  boiling  white  wine 
vinegar  upon  them,  clofe  the  pitcher  well  up, 
and  let  it  (land  five  or  fix  days  by  the  fire  ;  fhake 
it  well  up  every  day,  then  tie  it  up  and  let  it 
ftand  for  three  months  to  take  off  the  bitter; 
when  you  bottle  it ;  put  the  pickle  and  lemon 
in  a  hair  fieve,  prefs  them  well  to  get  out  the 
liquor*  and  let  it  ftand  till  another  day,  then 
pour  off  the  fine  and  bottle  it ;  let  the  other  ftand 
three  or  four  days  and  it  will  refine  itfelf,  pour 
it  oifand  bottle  it,  let  it  ftand  again  and  bottle 
it,  till  the  whole  is  refined  :  it  may  be  put  in 
any  white  fauce,  and  will  not  hurt  the  colour; 
it  is  very  good  for  fifh  fauce  and  made  diihes, 
a  tea  fpoonful  is  enough  for  white,  and  two 
for  brown  fauce  for  a  fowl  $  it  is  a  moft  ufeful 
pickle  and  gives  a  pleafant  flavour  :  be  fure  you 
put  it  in  before  you  thicken  the  fauce,  or  put 
any  cream  in,  left  the  fharpnefs  make  it  curdle* 

Browning  for  Made  Dishes. 

BEAT  fmall  four  ounces  of  treble  refined 
fugar,  put  it  in  a  clean  iron  frying  pan,  with 
one  ounce  of  butter,  fet  it  over  a  clear  fire, 
mix  it  very  well  together  all  the  timej  when 
it  begins  to  be  frothy,  the  fugar  is  diflblving, 
hold  it  higher  over  the  fire,  have  ready  a  pint 

G  Qf 


ti  THE   EXPERIENCE^ 

of  red  wine;  when  the  fugar.  and  butter  is  or 
a  deep  brown,  pour  in  a  little  of  the  wine,  ftir 
it  well  together,  then  add  more  wine,  and  keep 
ftirring  it  all  the  time*  pul  in  half  an  ounce  of 
Jamaica  pepper,  fix  cloves,  four  fhalots  peeled, 
two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  three  fpoonfuls  of 
muftiroom  catchup,  a  little  fait,  the  out-rinds  of 
one  lemon,  boil  them  flowly  for  ten  minutes, 
pour  it  into  a  bafon,  when  cold  take  oft  the 
fcum  very  clean,  and  bottle  it  for  ufe. 

fo  drefs  a  Mock*  Turtle. 

TAKE;   the  largeft  calf's  head   you  can  get* 
with  the  ikin  on, "put  it  in  fcalding  water   till 
you  find  the  hair  will   come  off,  clean  it  well, 
and   wafli   it  in  warm  water,  and  boil  it  three 
quarters    of  an  hour,  then   take  it  out  of  the 
water  and  flit  it  down  the  face,   cut  off  all  the  ; 
meat  along  with  the  ikin  as  clean  from  the  bone 
as  you  can,  and  be  careful  you  do  not  break  the 
ears   off,  lay  it  on  a  fiat  diih,  and  ft uff  the  ears 
with  forcemeat,  and  tie  them  round  with  cloths,, 
take  the  eyes  out,  and  pick  all  the  reft  of  the 
meat  clean  from  the  bones,  put   it  in  a  tofling 
pan,  with  the  niceft  and  fatteft  part  of  another 
calf's  head,  without  the  Ikin  on,  boiled  as  long 
as  the  above,  and  three  quarts  of  veal  gravy, 
lay  the  ikin  in  the  pan  on  the  meat  with  the  fleib 
fide  up,  cover  the  pan  clofe,  and  let  it  ftew  over 
a   moderate  fire   one   hour,  then   put  in  three 
fweetbreads  fryed  a  light  brown,  one  ounce  of 
morels,  the  lame  of  truffles,  five  artichoke  bot- 
toms boiled,  one   anchovy  boned  and  chopped^ 

final  1 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       83 

fmall,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  Chyan  pepper,  a  little 
fait,  half  a  lemon,  three  pints  of  Madeira  wine, 
two  meat  fpoonfuls  of  muihroom  catchup,  one 
of  lemon  pickle,  half  a  pint  of  mufhrocms, 
and  let  them  ftew  flowly  half  an  hour  longer, 
and  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter;  have  ready 
the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  the 
brains  of  both  heads  boiled,  cut  the  brains  the 
iize  of  nutmegs,  and  make  a  rich  forcemeat, 
and  fpread  it  on  the  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal,  roll 
it  up  and  boil  it  in  a  cloth  one  hour;  when 
boiled,  cut  it  in  three  parts,  the  middle  largeft, 
then  take  up  the  meat  into  the  difh,  and  lay 
the  head  over  it  with  the  &in  fide  up,  and  put 
the  largeffc  piece  of  forcemeat  between  the  ears, 
and  make  the  top  of  the  ears  to  meet  round 
it  5  (this  is  called  the  crown  of  the  turtle)  lay 
the  other  flices  of  the  forcemeat  oppohte  to  each 
other  at  the  narrow  end,  and  lay  a  few  of  the 
truffles,  morels,  brains,  mu{hrooms,  eggs,  and 
artichoke  bottoms  upon  the  face  and  round  it, 
ftrain  the  gravy  boiling  hot  upon  it,  be  as 
quick  in  difhing  it  up  as  poiTible,  for  it  fooa 
goes  cold. 

Mock  Turtle  afecGndway. 

DRESS  the  hair  of  a  calf's  head  as  before, 
boil  it  half  an  hour,  when  boiled  cut  it  in  pieces 
half  an  inch  thick,  and  one  inch  and  a  half  long, 
put  it  into  a  ftew  pan,  with  two  quarts  of  veal 
gravy,  and  fait  to  your  tafte;  let  it  ftew  one 
hour,  then  put  in  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  half 
a  tea  fpoonful  of  Chyan  pepper,  truffles  and 

G  a  morels 


«4  THE  EXPERIENCED 

morels  one  ounce  each,  three  or  four  artichoke 
bottoms  boiled  and  cut  in  quarters  \  when  the 
meat  begins  to  look  clear,  and  the  gravy  ftrong, 
put  in  half  a  lemon,  and  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter,  fry  a  few  forcemeat  balls,  beat  four 
yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  in  a  mortar  very  fine, 
with  a  lump  of  butter,  and  make  them  into  balls 
the  iize  of  pigeons  eggs  ;  put  the  forcemeat  balls 
and  eggs  in  after  you  have  difhed  it  up. 

N.  B.  A  lump  of  butter  put  in  the  water 
makes  the  artichoke  bottoms  boil  white  and 
fooner. 

To  make  an  Artificial  Turtle. 

SCALD  a  calf's  head,  cut  it  in  pieces  one 
inch  thick,  two  broad,  and  four  long,  parboil 
a  falmon's  liver,  cut  it  in  ten  or  twelve  pieces, 
feafon  the  whole  with  beaten  mace,  fait,  and 
Chyan,  put  them  into  a  well-lined  copper  difll, 
with  a  pint  and  half  of  gravy  made  of  veal, 
fix  anchovies,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  fprig  of 
fweet  marjoram  (your  gravy  muft  be  very  good) 
a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  the  juice  of  four  or 
five  lemons  ftrained  from  the  feeds,  the  yolks  of 
ten  or  twelve  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  about  three 
dozen  of  forcemeat  balls,  made  as  the  receipt 
directs ;  let  it  flew  gently  about  an  hour,  al- 
ways keep  it  clofe  covered,  and  ftir  in  a  lump 
of  butter  the  fize  of  an  orange,  with  a  tea 
fpoonful  of  fine  flour  rolled  in  it,  and  let  it  flew 
full  two  hours  longer:  if  you  perceive  it  wants 
addition  of  feafoning,  &c.  add  to  it  a  few  mi- 
autes  before  you  ferve  it  up,  which  muft  be  in 

a  foup 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      85 

a  foup  difh  or  tureen,  with  the  yolks  and  flices 
of  lemon  on  the  top ;  take  care  to  fkim  off  the 
fat  before  you  difh  it  up. 

To  make  Forcemeat  for  an  ArtificialTurtle. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  the  fat  of  a  loin  of  veal, 
the  fame  of  lean,  with  fix  boned  anchovies,  beat 
them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar,  feafon  with  mace, 
Chyan,  fait,  a  little  fhred  parfley,  fweet  mar- 
joram, fome  juice  of  lemon,  and  three  or  four 
ipoonfuls  of  Madeira  wine,  mix  thefe  well  to- 
gether, and  make  it  into  little  balls,  duft  them 
with  a  little  fine  flour,  and  put  them  into  your 
difh  to  flew  about  half  an  hour  before  you  ferve 
it  up;  the  green  fkin  of  a  falmon's  head  is  a 
very  great  addition  to  ycur  turtle ;  boil  it  a  little, 
then  ftew  it  among  the  reft  of  the  other  things. 

To  make  a  Calf's  Head  Hajh. 

CLEAN  your  calf's  head  exceeding  well, 
and  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  :  when  it  is  cold 
cut  the  meat  into  thin  broad  flices,  and  put  it 
into  a  toiling  pan,  with  two  quarts  of  gravy; 
and  when  ithas  ftewed  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
add  to  it  one  anchovy,  a  little  beaten  mace,  and 
Chyan  to  your  tafte,  two  tea  fpoonfuls  of  lemon 
pickle,  two  meat  ipoonfuls  of  walnut  catchup, 
half  an  ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  a  fliceor  two 
of  lemon,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  and  a  glafs 
of  white  wine,  mix  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  with  flour,  and  put  it  in  a  few  minutes 
before  the  head  is  enough  ;  take  your  brains  and 
put  them  into  hot  water,  it  will  make  them  fkin 
G  3  fooner, 


86  THE  EXPERIENCED 

fooner,  and  beat  them  fine  in  a  bafon,  then  add 
to  them  two  eggs,  one  fpoonful  of  flour,  a  bit  of 
lemon  peel  Aired  fine,  chop  fmall  a  little  par- 
fley,  thyme,  and  fage,  beat  them  very  well  to- 
gether, ftrew  in  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  then 
drop  them  in  little  cakes  into  a  panful  of  boil- 
ing hog's  lard,  and  fry  them  a  light  brown,  then, 
lay  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain ;  take  your  haAi 
out  of  the  pan  with  a  fifti  (lice,  and  lay  it  on  your 
dim,  and  fti-ain  your  gravy  over  it,  lay  upon  it  a 
few  muAirooms,  forcemeat  balls,  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  the  brain-cakes .: 
garniAi  with  lemon  and  pickles. 
It  is  proper  for  a  top  or  fide  diAi. 

To  drefs  a  Calf's  Head  the  bejl  way.. 

TAKE  a  calf's  head  with  the  Hun  on,  and 
fcald  off  all  the  hair  and  clean  it  very  well,  cut 
it  in  two,  take  out  the  brains,  boil  the  head  very 
white  and  tender,  take  one  part  quite  off  the 
bone,  and  cut  it  into  nice  pieces  with  the  tongue, 
dredge  it  with  a  little  flour,  and  let  it  ftew  on  a 
Aow  fire  for -about  half  an  hour  in  rich  white 
gravy  made  of  veal,  mutton,  and  a  piece  of 
bacon,  feaioned  with  pepper,,  fait,  onion,  and 
a  very  little  mace  ;  it  muit  be  (trained  off  before 
the  ham  is  put  in  it,  thicken  it  with  a  little, 
butter  rolled  in  flour  :  the  other  part  of  the 
he  id  muft  be  taken  off  in  one  whole  piece,  fluff 
it  with  UJce  forcemeat,  and  roll  it  like  a  collar, 
and  (tew  it  tender  in  gravy,  then  put  it  in  the 
middle  of  the  dim,  and  the  ham  all  round,  gar- 
niih  it  with'  forcemeat  balls,-  fried  oyfters,  and 

a  '  the. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       87 

the  brains  made  into  little  cakes  dipped  in  rich 
butter  and  fried.  You  may  add  wine,  morels, 
truffles,  or  what  you  pleafe  to  make  it  good  and 
rich. 

To  drefs  a  Calf's  Head  Surprise. 

DRESS  off  the  hair  of  a  large   calf's  head 
as  directed  in  the  mock  turtle,  then  take  a  {harp 
pointed   knife  and   raife  off. the  {kin,  with  as 
much  of  the  meat  from  the  bones  as  you  pofli- 
bly  can  get,  that  it  may  appear  like  a  whole  head 
when  it  is  {luffed,  and  be  careful  you  do  not  cut 
the   {kin  in  holes,   then  fcrape  a  pound  of  fat 
bacon,    the  crumb  of  two  penny  loaves,  grate 
a  fmall  nutmeg  with  fait,   Chyan  pepper,  and 
fhred  lemon  peel  to  your  tafte,  the  yolks  of  fix 
eggs  well  beat,  mix  all  up  into  a  rich  forcemeat, 
put  a  little  into  the  ears  and  fluff  the  head  with 
the  remainder,  have  ready  a  deep  narrow  pot 
that  it  will  jufi  go  in,  with  two  quarts  of  water, 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine,  two   fpoonfuls  of 
lemon  pickle,  the  fame  of  walnut  and  mum- 
room  catchup,  one  anchovy,  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  a  little  fait  and 
Chyan  .pepper,  lay  acoarfe  parte  over  it  to  keep 
in  the  fteam  ;  and  fet  it  in  a   very  quick  oven 
two  hours  and  a  half,  when  you  -take  it  out  lay 
your  head  in  a  foup  dim,  fkim  the  fat  clean  off 
the  gravy,  and  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieveinto 
a  toiling  pan,  thicken  it  with  a  lump  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour  $  when  it  has  boiled  a  few  ml-.- 
nutes,  put  in  the  yolk  of  fix  eggs   well   beat, 
and  mixed  with  half  a  pint  of  cream,  but  do  not 

G  4  let 


88  THE   EXPERIENCED 

let  it  boil,  it  will  curdle  the  eggs ;  you  mull 
have  ready  boiled  a  few  forcemeat  balls,  half  an 
ounce  of  truffles  and  morels,  it  would  make  the 
gravy  too  dark  a  colour  to  flew  them  in  it;  pour 
your  gravy  over  your  head,  and  garnifh  with  the 
truffles,   morels,  forcemeat  balls,  muflirooms, 

and  barberries,  and  ferve  it  up.- ^This  is  a 

handfome  top  difli  at  a  fmall  expence, 

To  grill  a  Calf's  Head, 

WASH  your  calf's  head  clean  and  boil  it  al«> 
mofl  enough,  then  take  it  up  and  hafh  one  half, 
the  other  half  rub  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
a  little  pepper  and  fait,  ftrew  over  it  bread 
crumbs,  parfley  chopped  fmall,  and  a  little 
grated  lemon  peel,  fet  it  before  the  fire  and  keep 
bafting  it  all  the  time  to  make  the  froth  rife; 
when  it  is  a  fine  light  brown,  difh  up  your  hafh, 
and  lay  the  grilled  fide  upon  it. 

Blanch  your  tongue,  flit  it  down  the  middle, 
and  lay  it  on  a  foup  plate:  fkin  the  brains,  boil 
them  with  a  little  fage  and  parfley  ;  chop  them 
fine,  and  mix  them  with  fome  melted  butter, 
and  a  fpoonful  of  cream,  make  them  hot,  and 
pour  them  over  the  tongue,  ferve  them  up,  and 
they  afe  fauce  for  the  head. 

To  collar  a  Calf's  Head, 

TAKE  a  calf's  head  with  the  fkin  on  and 
fcald  it,  clean  it  well,  then  bone  it,  feafon  it 
with  pepper,  fait,  cloves,  mace,  and  a  little 
ginger,  all  ground  very  fine,  take  fome  cochi- 
neal, diflbive  it  in  fome  water,  rub  it  on  the 

infide 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       89 

infide  of  the  head  with  a  little  bay  fait  and  a 
large  handful  of  chopped  pariley,  roll  it  up 
light  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  till  you  think  it  is 
enough  in  a  pickle  made  of  all  forts  of  fweet 
herbs,  fpices,  and  fome  red  wine,  then  unroll 
the  cloth  and  roll  it  tight  again,  and  put  weights 
upon  it  as  it  lies  in  the  pickle  to  prefs  it  clofe 
till  it  is  cold,  then  boil  fome  bran  and  water 
with  fome  bay  and  common  fait,  ftrain  it  off, 
and  when  they  are  both  cold  put  it  in  the  head, 
and  let  it  lie  three  or  four  days  before  you  ufe  it* 

To  make  a  Porcupine  of  a  Breast  of  Veal* 

BONE  the  fineft  and  largeft  bread  of  veal 
you  can  get,  rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  fpread  it  on  a  table,  lay  over  it  a  little 
bacon  cut  as  thin  as  pofilble,  a  handful  of  pariley 
flired  fine,  the  yolks  of  five  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fmall,  a  little  lemon  peel  cut  fine,  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  fait  to  your  tafte,  and  the 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  fteeped  in  cream,  roll 
the  bread  clofe,  and  fkewer  it  up,  then  cut  fat 
bacon  and  the  lean  of  ham  that  has  been  a  little 
boiled,  or  it  will  turn  the  veal  red,  and  pickled 
cucumbers  about  two  inches  long  to  anfwer  the 
other  lardings,  and  lard  it  in  rows,  firft  ham, 
then  '  bacon,  then  cucumbers,  till  you  have 
larded  it  all  over  the  veal;  put  it  in  a  deep 
earthen  pot,  with  a  pint  of  water,  and  cover  it 
and  fet  it  in  a  flow  oven  two  hours  ;  when  it 
comes  from  the  oven  fkim  the  fat  off,  and  ftrain 
the  gravy  through  a  fieve  into  a  ftew-pan,  put 
ja  a  glafs  of  white  wine,  a  little  lemon  pickle 
1  and 


go  THE    EXPERIENCED 

and  caper  liquor,  a  fpoonful  of  mufhroom  catch*. 
up,  thicken  it  with  a  little  butter,  rolled  in  flour? 
lay  your  porcupine  on  the  dim,  and  pour  it  hot 
upon  it,  cut  a  roll  of  forcemeat  in  four  flices, 
lay  one  at  each  end  and  the  other  at  the  fides ; 
have  ready  your  fweetbread  cut  in  flices  and 
fried,  lay  them  round  it  with  a  few  mufhrooms. 
It  is  a  grand  bottom  di£h  when  game  is  not  to 
be  had. 

N.  B.  Make  the  forcemeat  of  a  few  chopped 
oyfters,  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  half  a  pound 
of  beef  fuet  fhred  fine,  and  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  mi::  them  well .  together  with  nutmeg, 
Chyan  pepper,  and  fait  to  your  palate,  fpread  it 
on  a  veal  caul,  and  roll  it  up  clofe  like  a  collared 
eel,  bind  it  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it  one  hour. 

To  ragoo  a  Breast  of Veal. 

HALF  roaft  a  breaft  of  veal,  then  bone  it 
and  put  it  in  a  toffing  pan,  with  a  quart  of  veal 
gravy,  one  ounce  of  morels,  the  fame  of  truffles, 
itew  it  till  tender,  and  juft  before  you  thicken 
the  gravy,  put  in  a  few  oyfters,  pickled  mufh- 
rooms,  and  pickled  cucumbers,  cut  in  fmall 
fquare  pieces,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled 
hard,  cut  your  fweetbread  in  flices,  and  fry  it  z, 
light  brown,  dim  up  your  veal  and  pour  the 
gravy  hot  over  it,  lay  your  fweetbread  round, 
oiorels,  truffles,  and  eggs  upon  it:  garnim  with, 
pickled  barberries  ;  this  is  proper  for  either  top 
cr  fide  for  dinner,  or  bottom  for  fupper. 


n 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      9? 

To  collar  a  Breast  of  Veal. 

TAKE  the  fined  bread  of  veal,  bone  it,  and 
rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  ftrew 
over  it  fome  crumbs  of  bread,  a  little  grated 
lemon,  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  a  handful  of 
chopped  parfley,  roll  it  up  tight  and  bind  it 
hard  with  twine,  wrap  it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it 
one  hour  and  a  half,  then  take  it  up  to  cool, 
when  a  little  cold  take  off  the  cloth,  and  clip 
off  the  twine  carefully,  left  you  open  the  veal, 
cut  it  in  five  flices,  lay  them  on  a  dim  with  the 
fweetbread  boiled  and  cut  in  thin  flices  and  laid 
round  them,  with  ten  or  twelve  forcemeat  balls; 
pour  over  your  white  fauce,  and  garnifh  with 
barberries  or  green  pickles. 

The  wrhite  fauce  muft  be  made  thus: — Take 
a  pint  of  good  veal  gravy,  put  to  it  a  fpoonful 
of  lemon  pickle,  half  an  anchovy,  a  tea  fpoon- 
ful of  mulhroom  powder,  or  a  few  pickled  mufh- 
rooms,  give  it  a  gentle  boil ;  then  put  in  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  beat  fine, 
fhake  it  over  the  fire  after  the  eggs  and  cream  is 
in,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  it  will  curdle  the  cream^ 
It  is  proper  for  a  top  diih  at  night,  or  a  fide 
diin  for  dinner. 

A  boiled  Breast  of  Veal. 
'  SKEWER  your  breaft  of  veal,  that  it  will 
lie  flat  in  the  difh,  boil  it  one  hour  (if  a  large 
one  an  hour  and  a  quarter)  make  a  white  fauce 
as  before-mentioned  for  the  collared  one,  pour 
it  over,  and  -garnifh  it  with  pickles. 


$&  THE  EXPERIENCED 

^Neck  of  Veal  Cutlets. 

CUT  a  neck  of  veal  into  cutlets,  fry  them  a 
fine  brown,  then  put  them  into  a  tolling  pan,  and 
flew  them  till  tender  in  a  quart  of  good  gravy, 
then  add  one  fpoonful  of  browning,  the  fame 
of  catchup,  fome  fried  forcemeat  balls,  ~a  few 
truffles,  morels,  and  pickled  mufhrooms,  a  lit- 
tle fait,  and  Chyan  pepper,  thicken  your  gravy 
with  flour  and  butter,  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes, 
lay  your  cutlets  in  the  difh,  with  the  top  of  the 
ribs  in  the  middle,  pour  your  fauce  over  them, 
lay  your  balls,  morels,  truffles,  and  mufhrooms 
€ver  the  cutlets,  and  fend  them  up, 

A  Neck  of  Veal  a-la-royal. 

CUT  off  the  fcrag-end  and  part  of  the  chine- 
bone  to  make  it  lie  flat  in  the  difh,  then  chop  a 
.  lew  mufhrooms,  fhalots,  a  little  parfley  and 
thyme,  all  very  fine,  with  pepper  and  fait,  cut 
rniddie-fized  lards  of  bacon,  and  roll  them  in 
the  herbs,  &c.  and  lard  the  lean  part  of  the  neck, 
put  it  in  a  ftew-pan  with  fome  lean  bacon  or 
ihank  of  ham,  and  the  chine-bone  and  fcrag  cut 
in  pieces,  with  three  or  four  carrots,  onions,  a 
head  of  celery,  and  a  little  beaten  mace,  pour 
in  as  much  water  as  will  cover  the  pan  very  clofe, 
and  let  it  (lew  flowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  till 
tender,  then  ftrain  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  out 
of  the  pan  through  a  fine  fieve,  fet  it  over  a  ftove, 
and  let  it  boil,  keep  ftirringit  till  it  is  dry  at  the 
bottom,  and  of  a  good  brown;  be  fure  you  do  not 
let  it  burn,  then  add  more  of  the  liquor  ftrained 

free 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      93 

free  from  fat,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  becomes 
a  fine  thick  brown  glaze,  then  take  the  veal  out 
of  the  ftew-pan,  and  wipe  it  clean,  and  put  the 
larded  fide  down  upon  the  glaze,  fet  it  over  a 
gentle  fire  five  or  fix  minutes  to  take  the  glaze, 
then  lay  it  in  the  dim  with  the  glazed  fide  up, 
and  put  into  the  fame  ftew-pan  as  much  flour  as 
will  lie  on  a  fix-pence,  ftir  it  about  well,  and 
add  fome  of  the  braize  liquor,  if  any  left ;  let 
it  boil  till  it  is  of  a  proper  thicknefs,  ftrain  it 
and  pour  it  in  the  bottom  of  the  dim,  fqueeze 
in  a  little  juice  of  lemon  and  ferve  it  up. 

Bombarded  Veal. 

CUT  the  bone  nicely  out  of  a  fillet,  make  a 
forcemeat  of  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  half  a 
pound  of  fat  bacon  fcraped,  a  little  lemon  peel 
or  lemon  thyme,  parfley,  two  or  three  fprigs  of 
fweet  marjoram,  one  anchovy,  chop  them  all 
very  well,  grate  a  little  nutmeg,  Chyan  pep- 
per and  fait  to  your  palate,  mix  all  up  together 
with  egg  and  a  little  cream,  and  fill  up  the  place 
where  the  bone  came  out  with  the  forcemeat, 
then  cut  the  fillet  acrofs,  in  cuts  about  one  inch 
from  another  all  round  the  fillet,  fill  one  nick 
with  forcemeat,  a  fecond  with  boiling  fpinage, 
that  is  boiled  and  well  fqueezed,  a  third  with 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  oyfters,  and  beef  mar- 
row, then  forcemeat,  and  fill  them  up  as  above 
all  round  the  fillet,  wrap  the  caul  clofe  round  it, 
and  put  it  in  a  deep  pot  with  a  pint  of  water, 
make  a  coarfe  pafte  to  lay  over  it,  to  keep  the 
oven  from  giving  it  a  fiery  tafte ;  when  it  comes 

out 


$4  THE   EXPERIENCE^ 

out  of  the  oven,  (kirn  off  the  fat  and  put  ih& 
gravy  in  a  ftew-pan,  with  a  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  and  another  of  mufhroorh  catchup,  two 
of  browning,  half  an  ounce  of  morels,  and  truf- 
fles, five  boiled  artichoke  bottoms  cut  in  quar- 
ters, thicken  the  fauce  with  flour  and  butter* 
give  it  a  gentle  boil,  and  pour  it  upon  the  veal 
into  your  diih. 

To  make  a  Frycando  of  Veal. 

CUT  freaks  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fix  inches 
long,  out  of  the  thick  part  of  a  leg  of  veal, 
lard  them  with  fmall  cardoons,  and  duft  them 
with  flour,  put  them  before  the  fire  to  broil  a 
fine  brown,  then  put  them  into  a  large  toffing 
pan  with  a  quart  of  good  gravy  and  let  it  ftew 
half  an  hour,  then  'put  in  two  tea-fpoonfuls  of 
lemon  pickle,  a  meat  fpoonful  of  walnut  catch- 
up, the  fame  of  browning,  a  flice  of  lemon,  a 
little  anchovy  and  Chyan,  a  few  morels  and 
truffles;  when  your  fricandos  are  tender,  take 
them  up,  and  thicken  your  gravy  with  flour  and 
butter,  ftrain  it,  place  your  fricandos  in  the 
difh,  pour  your  gravy  on  them:  garnifii  with 
lemons  and  barberries.  You  may  lay  round  them 
forcemeat  balls  fried,  or  forcemeat  rolled  in  a 
veal  caul,  and  yolks  of  eggs  boiled  hard. 

To  make  Veal  Olives. 

CUT  the  thick  part  of  a  leg  of  veal  in  thin 
flices,  flatten  them  with  the  broad  fide  of  a 
deaveiyrub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 

ftrew 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER;      g$ 

ftrew  over  every  piece  a  very  thin  flice  of  bacon, 
ftrew  over  them  a  few  bread  crumbs,  a  little 
lemon  peel,  and  parfley  chopped  fmall,  pepper, 
fait,  and  nutmeg,  roll  them  up  clofe  and  fkewer 
them  tight,  then  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of 
eggs,  and  roll  them  in  bread  crumbs  and  par- 
fley chopped  fmall,  put  them  into  a  tin  drip- 
ping-pan to  bake  or  fry  them;  then  take  a  pint 
of  good  gravy,  add  to  it  a  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickle,  the  fame  of  walnut  catchup,  and  one  of 
browning,  a  little  anchovy  and  Chyan  pepper, 
thicken  it, with  flour  and  butter,  ferve  them  up 
with  forcemeat  balls,  and  ftrain  the  gravy  hot 
upon  them  :  garniili  with  pickles,  and  ftrew 
over  them  a  few  pickled  muflirooms. — You 
may  drefs  veal  cutlets  the  fame  way,  but  not 
roll  them. 

To  make  Veal  Olives  afecond  Way, 

CUT  large  collops  of  a  fillet  of  veal,  and 
hack  them  very  well  with  the  back  of  a  knife, 
fpread  forcemeat  very  thin  over  every  one,  roll 
them  up  and  roaft  them,  or  bake  them  in  an 
oven,  make  a  ragoo  of  oyfters  and  fweet- breads 
diced,  a  few  morels  and  mufhrooms,  and  lay 
them  in  the  diih  with  the  rolls  of  veal;  if  you 
have  oyfters  enough,  chop  and  mix  feme  with 
the  forcemeat,-it  makes  it  much  better ;  force- 
meat balls  look  very  pretty  round  them  ; there 
muft.be  nice  brown  gravy  in  the  difh,  an  they 
muft  be  lent  up  hot. 


T» 


96         THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  drefs  Scotch  Collops  white. 
CUT  them  oft"  the  thick  part  of  a  leg  of  veat, 
the  fize  and  thicknefs  of  a  crown  piece,  put  a 
lump  of  butter  into  a  toffing  pan,  and  fet  it  over 
a  flow  fire  or  it  will  difcolour  your  collops ;  be- 
fore the  pan  is  hot  lay  the  collops  in,  and  keep 
turning  them  over  till  you  fee  the  butter  is  turned 
to  thick  white  gravy ;  put  your  collops  and 
gravy  in  a  pot,  and  fet  them  upon  the  hearth, 
to  keep  warm,  put  cold  butter  again  into  your 
pan  every  time  you  fill  it,  and  fry  them  as  above, 
and  fo  continue  till  you  have  finifhed;  when  you 
have  fried  them  pour  your  gravy  from  them  into 
your  pan,  with  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle, 
mufhroom  catchup,  caper  liquor,  beaten  mace, 
Chyan  pepper,  and  fait,  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter,  when  it  has  boiled  five  minutes,  put  in 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beat  and  mixed,  with 
a  tea-cupful  of  rich  cream;  keep  fhaking  your 
pan  over  the  fire  till  your  gravy  looks  of  a  fine 
thicknefs,  then  put  in  your  collops  and  fhake 
them,  when  they  are  quite  hot,  put  them  on 
your  difh  with  forcemeat  balls,  ftrew  over  them 
pickled  mufhrooms :  garnifh  with  barberries 
and  kidney-beans. 

To  drefs  Scotch  Collops  brown. 
CUT  your  collops  the  fame  way  as  the  white 
ones,  but  brown  your  butter  before  you  lay  in 
your  collops,  fry  them  over  a  quick  fire,  (hake 
and  turn  them,  and  keep  them  on  a  fine  froth  t 
when  they  are  a  light  brown,  put  them  into  a 

pot 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.        97 

pot,  and  fry  them  as  the  white  ones ;  when  you 
have  fried  them  all  brown,  pour  all  the  gravy 
from  them  into  a  clean  toffing-pan,  with  half  a 
pint  of  gravy  made  of  the  bones  and  bits  you 
cut  the  collops  off,  two  tea  fpoonfuls  of  lemon 
pickle,  a  large  one  of  catchup,  the  fame  of 
browning,  half  an  ounce  of  morels,  half  a  le- 
mon, a  little  anchovy,  Chyan,  and  fait  to  your 
tafte,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  let  it 
boil  five  or  fix  minutes,  then  put  in  your  col- 
lops, and  fhake  them  over  the  fire;  if  they  boil 
it  will  make  them  hard  ;  when  they  have  fim- 
mered  a  little,  take  them  out  with  an  egg  fpoon, 
and  lay  them  on  your  difh,  ftrain  your  gravy 
and  pour  it  hot  on  them,  lay  over  them  force- 
meat balls,  and  little  flices  of  bacon  curled 
round  a  ikewerand  boiled,  throw  a  few  mu(h- 
rooms  over  :  garnifh  with  lemon  and  barberries, 
and  ferve  them  up. 

To  drefs  Scotch  Collops  the  French  Way. 

TAKE  a  leg  of  veal,  and  cut  your  collops 
pretty  thick,  five  or  fix  incheslong,  and  three 
inches  broad,  rub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of 
an  egg,  put  pepper  and  fait,  and  grate  a  little 
nutmeg  on  them,  and  a  little  fhred  parfley;  lay 
them  on  an  earthen  di(h,  and  fet  them  before 
the  fire,  bafte  them  with  butter,  and  let  them 
be  a  fine  brown,  then  turn  them  on  the  other 
fide,and  rub  them  as  above,bafte  and  brown  them 
the  fame  way ;  when  they  are  thoroughly  enough, 
make  a  good  brown  gravy  with  truffles  and  mo- 
rels, difh  up  your  collops,  lay  truffles  and  morels, 

H  and 


98  THE   EXPERIENCED 

and  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  over  them  ; 
garnifh  with  crifp  parfley  and  lemon. 

Sweet-Breads  a-la-daub. 

TAKE  three  of  the  largeft  and  fineft  fweet- 
breads  you  can  get,  put  them  in  a  fauce  pan  of 
boiling  water  for  five  minutes,  then  take  them 
out,  and  when  they  are  cold  lard  them  with  a 
row  down  the  middle,  with  very  little  pieces  of 
bacon,  then  arow  on  each  fide  with  lemon  peel 
cut  the  fize  of  wheat  ftraw  ;  then  a  row  on  each 
fide  of  pickled  cucumbers,  cut  very  fine,  put 
them  in  a  tolling  pan,  with  good  veal  gravy,  a 
little  juice  of  lemon,  a  fpoonful  of  browning, 
iiew  them  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  a  little 
before  they  are  ready  thicken  them  with  flour 
and  butter,  difh  them  up  and  pour  the  gravy 
over,  lay  round  them  bunches  of  boiled  celery, 
or  oyfter  patties  :  garnifh  with  ftewed  fpinage, 
green  coloured  parfley,  flick  a  bunch  of  barber- 
ries in  the  middle  of  each  fweet-bread*- It 

is   a  pretty    corner    difh  for  either  dinner  or 
iupper. 

Forced  Sweet-Breads. 

PUT  three  fweet-breads  in  boiling  v/ater  five 
minutes,  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  a  little,  and 
rub  it  over  them  with  a  feather,  ftrew  on  bread 
crumbs,  lemon  peel,  and  parfley  fhred  very  fine, 
nutmeg,  fait,  and  pepper  to  your  palate,  fet 
them  before  the  fire  to  brown,  and  add  to  them 
a  little  veal  gravy,  put  a  little  mufhroom  pow- 
der, caper  liquor,  or  juice  of  lemon  and  brown- 
ing, thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  boil  it  a 
little,  and  pour  it  in  your  difh,  lay   in  your 

fweet- 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER;      99 

fweet-breads,  and  lay  over  them  lemon  peel  in 
rings,  cut  like  ftraws :  garnifli  with  pickles* 

Tofricajfee  Sweet-Breads  brown. 

SCALD  three  fweet-breads,  when  cold  cut 
them  in  flices  the  thicknefs  of  a  crown  piece,  dip 
them  in  batter,  and  fry  them  in  frefh  butter  a 
nice  brown,  make  a  gravy  for  them  as  the  laft, 
Hew  your  fweet-breads  flowly  in  the  gravy  eight 
or  ten  minutes,  lay  them  on  your  difh,  and  pour 
the  gravy  over  them:  garnifli -with  lemon  or 
barberries. 

Tofricajfee  Sweet-Breads  white. 

SCALD  and  flice  the  fweet-breads  as  before, 
put  them  in  a  toffingpan,  with  a  pint  of  veal 
gravy,*  a  fpoonful  of  white  wine,  the  fame  of 
mufhroom  catchup,  a  little  beaten  mace,  ftew 
them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  thicken  your  gravy 
with  flour  and  butter  a  little  before  they  are 
enough  -y  when  you  are  going  to  diili  them  up, 
mix  trie  yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  tea-cupful  of  thick 
cream,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  put  it  into 
your  toiling  pan,  and  {hake  it  well  over  the  fire, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil,  lay  your  fweet-breads  on 
your  difh,  and  pour  your  fauce  over  them  :  gar- 
nifli with  pickled  red  beet-root  and  kidney- 
beans. 

To  ragoo  Sweet-Breads. 

RUB  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg9 
ftrew  over  them  bread  crumbs  and  parfley,  thyme 

H  z  and 


io©  THE   EXPERIENCED 

and  fvvcct  marjoram  Aired  fmall,  and  pepper 
and  fait,  make  a  roll  of  forcemeat  like  a  fweet- 
bread,  and  put  it  in  a  veal  caul,  and  roafl  them 
in  a  Dutch  oven,  take  fome  brown  gravy,  and 
put  to  it  a  little  lemon  pickle,  mufhroom  catch- 
up, and  the  end  of  a  lemon,  boil  the  gravy,  and 
when  the  fweet-breads  are  enough,  lay  them  in 
a  difh,  with  a  forcemeat  in  the  middle,  take 
the  end  of  the  lemon  out,  and  pour  the  gravy 
into  the  difh  and  ferve  them  up. 

Tojifw  a  Fillet  of  Veal. 

TAKE  a  fillet  of  a  cow  calf,  fluff  it  well 
under  the  elder,  at  the  bone  and  quite  through 
to  the  (hank,  put  it  in  the  oven  with  a  pint  of 
water  under  it,  till  it  is  a  fine  brown,  then  put 
it  in  a  ftew-pan  with  three  pints  of  gravy,  ftew 
it  tender,  put  in  a  few  morels,  truffles,  a  tea 
fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large  one  of  brown- 
ing, and  one  of  catchup,  and  a  little  Chyan  pep- 
per, thicken  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour*  difh  up  your  veal,  ftrain  your  gravy  over, 
lay  round  forcemeat  balls  :  garnifh  with  pickle* 
and  lemon. 

To  ragoo  a  Fillet  of  Veal. 

LARD  your  fillet  and  half  roafl  it,  then  put 
it  in  a  toffing  pan,  with  two  quarts  of  good 
gravy,  cover  it  clofe  and  let  it  ftew  till  tender, 
then  add  one  fpoonful  of  white  wine,  one  of 
browning,  one  of  catchup,  a  tea  fpoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  a  little  enper  liquor,  half  an  ounce 

of 


ENGLISH  MOUSE-KEEPER.  ior 
•oT  morels,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  lay 
round  it  a  few  yolks  of  eggs. 

A  good  Way  to  drefs  a  Midcalf. 

TAKE  a  calf's  heart,  fluff  it  with  good 
forcemeat,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven  in  an  earthen 
difh  with  a  little  water  under  it,  lay  butter  over 
it,  and  dredge  it  with  flour,  boil  half  the  liver 
and  all  the  lights  together  half  an  hour,  then 
chop  them  fmall,  and  put  them  in  a  toffing  pan 
with  a  pint  of  gravy,  one  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickle  and  one  of  catchup,  fqueeze  in  half  a  le- 
mon, pepper  and  fait,  thicken  with  a  good  piece 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour ;  when  you  difh  it  up, 
pour  the  minced  meat  in  the  bottom,  and  have 
ready  fried  a  fine  brown  the  other  half  of  the 
liver  cut  in  thin  flices,  and  little  bits  of  bacon, 
fet  the  heart  in  the  middle,  and  lay  the  liver  and 
bacon  over  the  minced  meat,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  difguife  a  Leg*^  Veal. 

LARD  the  top  fide  of  a  leg  of  veal  in  rows 
with  bacon,  and  fluff  it  well  with  forcemeat 
made  of  oyflers,  then  put  it  into  a  large  fauce- 
pan  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  it,  put  on 
a  clofe  lid  to  keep  in  the  fleam,  flew  it  gently 
till  quite  tender,  then  take  it  up  and  boil  down 
the  gravy  in  the  pan  to  a  quart,  fkim  off  the  fat 
and  add  half  a  lemon,  a  fpoonful  of  mufhroom 
catchup,  a  little  lemon  pickle,  the  crumbs  of 
half  a  penny  loaf  grated  exceeding  fine,  boil  it 
in  your  gravy  till  it  looks  thick,  then  add  half 
a  pint  of  oyflers,  if  not  thick  enough,  roll  a 

H  3  lump 


102  THE    EXPERIENCED 

lump  of  butter  in  flour  and  put  it  in,  with  half 
a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  make  your  fauce  over  the  fire,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil  after  the  eggs  are  in  left  it  curdle  ;  put 
your  veal  in  a  deep  dim,  and  pour  the  fauce  over 
it  :  garnifh  with  crifped  parfleyand  fried  oyfters. 

— It  is  an  excellent  difh  for  the  top  of  a 

large  table. 

Harico'o/  a  Neck  ^/Mutton. 

CUT  the  beft  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into 
chops,  in  fingle  ribs,  flatten  them,  and  fry  them 
a  light  brown,  then  put  them  into  a  large  fauce- 
pan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  a  large  carrot  cut 
in  flices,  cut  at  the  edge  like  wheels ;  when 
they  have  (tewed  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  put  in 
two  turnips  cut  in  fquare  flices,  the  white  part 
of  a  head  of  celery,  a  few  heads  of  afparagus, 
two  cabbage  lettuces  fried,  and  Chyan  to  your 
tafte,  boil  them  all  together  till  they  are  tender, 
the  gravy  is  not  to  be  thickened  ;  put  it  into  a 
tureen,  or  foup  difh.    It  is  proper  for  a  top  difh. 

To  drefs  a  Neck  of  Mutton  to  eat  like   , 
Venison, 

CUT  a  large  neck  before  the  moulder  is 
taken  off,  broader  than  ufual,  and  the  flap  of 
the  moulder  with  it,  to  make  it  look  handfomer ; 
flick  your  neck  all  over  in  little  holes  with  a 
iharp  penknife,  and  pour  a  bottle  of  red  wine 
upon  it,  and  let  it  lie  in  the  wine  four  or  five 
days,  turn  and  rub  it  three  or  fout  times  a  day, 
then  take  it  out  and  hang  it  up  for  three  days  jii 

5  the 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      103 

the  open  air  out  of  the  fun,  and  dry  it  often 
with  a  cloth  to  keep  it  from  mufting ;  when  you 
roaft  it  bade  it  with  the  wine  it  was  fteeped  in 
if  any  left,  if  not,  frefh  wine,  put  white  paper 
three  or  four  folds  to  keep  in  the  fat,  roaft  it 
thoroughly,  and  then  take  off  the  fkin,  and 
froth  it  nicely,  and  ferveit  up. 

To  make  French    Steaks    of  a  Neck    of 
Mutton. 

LET  your  mutton  be  very  good  and  large, 
and  cut  off  moft  part  of  the  fat  of  the  neck,  and 
then  cut  the  fteaks  two  inches  thick,  make  a 
large  hole  through  the  middle  of  the  fleihy  part 
of  every  fteak  with  a  penknife,  and  ftuffit  with 
forcemeat  made  of  bread  crumbs,  beef  fuet,  a 
little  nutmeg,  pepper  and  fait,  mixed  up  with 
the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  when  they  are  fluffed,  wrap 
them  in  writing  paper,  and  put  them  in  a  Dutch 
oven,  fet  them  before  the  fire  to  broil,  they  will 
take  near  an  hour,  put  a  little  brown  gravy  in 
your  difh,  and  ferve  them  up  in  the  papers. 

A  Shoulder  of  Mut ton  furprifed. 

HALF  boil  a  fhoulder,  then  put  it  in  atof- 
fing-pan  with  two  quarts  of  veal  gravy,  four 
ounces  of  rice,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  mufhroom 
powder,  a  little  beaten  mace,  and  ftew  it  one 
hour,  or  till  the  rice  is  enough,  then  take  up 
your  mutton  and  keep  it  hot,  put  to  the  rice 
half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  a  lump  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour,  make  it  well  and  boil  it  a  few 
minutes  -9  lay  your  mutton  on  the  difh  and  poor 

H  4  it 


104  THE  EXPERIENCED 

it  over :  garnifh  with  barberries  or  pickles,  and 
fend  it  up. 

To  drefs  a  Shoulder   of  Mutton,  called 
Hen  and  Chickens. 

HALF  roaft  a  fhoulder,  then  take  it  up,  and 
cut  off  the  blade  at  the  firft  joint,  and  both  the 
flaps  to  make  the  blade  round,  fcore  the  blade, 
round  in  diamonds,  throw  a  little  pepper  and 
fait  over  it,  and  fet  it  in  a  tin  oven  to  broil,  cut 
the  flaps  and  the  meat  off  the  fhank  in  thin  flices 
into  the  gravy  that  runs  out  of  the  mutton,  and 
put  a  little  good  gravy  to  it,  with  two  fpoonfuls 
of  walnut  catchup,  one  of  browning,  a  little 
Chyan  pepper,  and  one  or  two  fhalots ;  when 
your  meat  is  tender,  thicken  it  with  flour  and 
butter,  putyour  meat  in  the  difh  with  the  gravy, 
and  lay  the  blade  on  the  top,  broiled  a  dark 
brown  :  garnifh  with  green  pickles,  and  ferve 
it  up. 

To  boil  a  Shoulder    0/*  Mutton    with 
Onion  Sauce. 

PUT  your  fhoulder  in  when  the  water  is 
cold,  when  enough  fmother  it  with  onion  fauce, 
made  the  fame  as  for  boiled  ducks. — You  may 
drefs  a  fhoulder  of  veal  the  fame  way. 

A  Shoulder  ^Mutton  ^  Celery 
Sauce. 

BOIL  it  as  before  till  it  is  quite  enough,  pour 
over  it  celery  fauce,  and  fend  it  to  the  table. — 

N.  B. 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       105 

N.  B.  The  fauce — Wafh  and  clean  ten  heads  of 
celery,  cut  off  the  green  tops,  and  take  off  the 
outfide  ftalks,  cut  them  into  thin  bits,  and  boil 
it  in  gravy  till  it  is  tender,  thicken  it  with  flour 
and  butter,  and  pour  it  over  your  mutton. — A 
/houlderof  veal  roafied  with  this  fauce  is  very 
good. 

Mutton  kebobed. 

CUT  a  loin  of  mutton  in  four  pieces,  take 
off  the  {kin,  and  rub  them  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  ftrew  over  them  a  few  breadcrumbs,  and 
a  little  fhred  parfley,  turn  them  round  and  fpit 
them,  roaft  them  and  keep  bafting  all  the  while 
with  frem  butter,  to  make  the  froth  rife ;  when 
they  are  enough,  put  a  little  brown  gravy  under, 
and  ferve  them  up:  garnifh  with  pickles. 

To  grill  a  Breast  of  Mutton. 

SCORE  a  breaft  of  mutton  in  diamonds,  and 
rub  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  ftrew 
on  a  few  bred  crumbs  and  fhred  parfley,  put  it 
in  a  Dutch  oven  to  broil,  bafte  it  with  frem  but- 
ter, pour  in  the  difh  good  caper  fauce,  and 
ferve  it  up. 

Split  Leg  of  Mutton  and  Onion  Sauce. 

SPLIT  the  leg  from  the  fhank  to  the  end, 
ilick  a  fkewer  in  to  keep  the  nick  open,  bafte  it 
with  red  wine  till  it  is  half  roafted,  then  take  the 
wine  out  of  the  dripping-pan,  and  put  to  it  one 
anchovy,  fet  it  over  the  fire  till  the  anchovy  is 
diffolved,  rub  the  yolk  of  a  hard  egg  in  a  little 

cold 


jo6  THE   EXPERIENCED 

cold  butter,  mix  it  with  the  wine,  and  put  it  in 

your  fauce-boat,  put  good  onion  fauce  over  the 

leg  when  it  is  roafled,  and  ferve  it  up. 

"To  force  a  Leg  of  Mutton.    . 

RAISE  the  fkin  and  take  out  the  lean  part  of 
the  mutton,  chop  it  exceeding  fine,  with  one 
anchovy,  fhred  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  grats 
a  penny  loaf,  half  a  lemon,  nutmeg,  pepper, 
and  fait  to  your  tafle,  make  them  into  a  force- 
meat, with  three  eggs  and  a  large  glafs  of  red 
wine,  fill  up  the  fkin  with  the  forcemeat,  but 
leave  the  bone  and  fhank  in  their  place,  and  it 
will  appear  like  a  whole  leg,  lay  it  on  an  earthen 
dim  with  a  pint  of  red  wine  under  it,  and  fend 
it  to  the  oven;  it  will  take  two  hours  and  a  half  $ 
when  it  comes  out  take  off  all  the  fat,  ftrain  the 
gravy  over  the  mutton,  lay  round  it  hard  yolks 
of  eggs  and  pickled  mufhrooms:  garnifh  with 
pickles,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Ifo  drefs  Sheep's  Rumps  and  Kidneys, 

BOIL  fix  (beeps'  rumps  in  veal  gravy,  then 
lard  your  kidneys  with  bacon,  and  let  them  be- 
fore the  fire  in  a  tin  oven ;  when  the  rumps  are 
tender,  rub  them  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
a  little  Chyan  and  grated  nutmeg,  fkim  the  fat 
off  the  gravy,  put  it  in  a  clean  tofiing  pan,  with 
three  ounces  of  boiled  rice,  a  fpoonful  of  good 
cream,  a  little  mufhroom  powder  or  catchup, 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  and  give  it  a 
gentle  boil,  fry  your  rumps  alight  brown ;  when 
you  di£h  them  up,  lav  them  round  on  your  rice, 

fo 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  107 
fo  that  the  fmall  ends  meet  in  the  middle,  and 
lay  a  kidney  between  every  rump ,  garnifh  with 
red  cabbage  or  barberries,  and  ferve  it  up.  It 
is  a  pretty  fide  or  corner  dim. 

To  drefs  a  Leg  of  Mutton  to  eat  like 
Venison. 

GET  the  largeft  and  fatteft  leg  of  mutton  you 
can  get,  cut  out  like  a  haunch  of  v'enifon;  as  ibon 
as  it  is  killed,  whilft  it  is  warm,  it  will  cat  the 
tenderer,  take  out  the  bloody  vein,  flick  it  ia 
feveral  places  in  the  under  fide  with  a  fharp- 
pointed  knife,  pour  over  it  a  bottle  of  red  wine, 
turn  it  in  the  wine  four  or  five  times  a  day  for 
five  days,  then  dry  it  exceeding  well  with  a  clean 
cloth,  hang  it  up  in  the  air  with  the  thick  end 
uppermost  for  five  days,  dry  it  night  and  morn- 
ing to  keep  it  from  being  damp,  or  growing 
mufty;  when  you  roaft  it,  cover  it  with  paper, 
and  parte  as  you  do  venifon;  ferve  it  up  with 
venifon  fauce. — It  will  take  four  hours  roafting. 

A  Basque  of  Mutton. 

TAKE  the  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal,  lay  it  in  a 
copper  difh  the  fize  of  a  fmall  punch  bowl,  take 
the  lean  of  a  leg  of  mutton,  that  has  been  kept 
a  week,  chop  it  exceeding  fmall,  take  half  its 
weight  in  beef  marrow,  the  crumbs  of  a  penny 
loaf,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  anchovies, 
half  a  pint  of  red  wine,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon 
grated,  mix  it  like  fauceage-meat,  and  lay  it  in 
your  caul  in  the  infide  of  your  difh,  clofe  up  the 
caul,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  5  when  it  comes 

out 


log  THE  EXPERIENCED 

out  lay  your  difli  upfide-down,  and  turn  the 
whole  out,  pour  over  it  brown  gravy,  and  fend 
Ir up  with  venifon  fauce  in  a  boat:  garnifh  with 

pickle* 

Oxford  John. 

TAKE  a  ftale  leg  of  mutton,  cut  it  in  as  thin 
collops  as  you  poffibly  can,  take  out  all  the  fat 
finews,  feafon  them  with  mace,  pepper,  arid 
fait,  ftrew  among  them  a  little  fhred  parfley, 
thyme,  and  two  or  three  fhalots,  put  a  good 
lump  of  butter  into  a  ftew-pan;  when  it  is  hot 
put  in  all  your  collops,  keep  ftirring  them  with 
a  wooden  fpoon  till  they  are  three  parts  done, 
then  add  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little  juice  of 
lemon,  thicken  it  a  little  with  flour  and  butter, 
let  them  fimmer  four  or  five  minutes,  and  they 
will  be  quite  enough,  if  you  let  them  boil,  or 
have  them  ready  before  you  want  them,  they 
will  grow  hard :  ferve  them  up  hot,  with  fried 
bread  cut  in  dices,  over  and  round  them. 

To  boil  a  Leg  of  Lamb  and  Loin  fried. 

CUT  your  leg  from  the  loin,  boil  the  leg 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  cut  the  loin  in  hand- 
fome  iteaks,  beat  them  with  a  cleaver,  and  fry 
them  a  good  brown,  then  ftew  them  a  little  in 
ftrong  gravy,  put  your  leg  on  the  difh,  and  lay 
your  fteaks  round  it,  pour  on  your  gravy,  lay 
round  lumps  of  ftewed  fpinage,  and  crifped  par- 
fley  on  every  fteak,  fend  it  to  the  table  with 
goofeberry  fauce  in  a  boat. 

r. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     109 

3*  force  a  Quarter  of  Lamb. 

TAKE  a  hind  quarter  and  cut  off  the  fhan^ 
raife  the  thick  part  of  the  flefh  from  the  bone, 
with  a  knife,  fluff  the  place  with  white  force- 
meat, and  fluff  it  under  the  kidney,  half  roafl 
it,  then  put  it  in  a  toffing-pan,  with  a  quart  of 
mutton  gravy,  cover  it  clofe  up,  and  let  it  flew 
gently  :  when  it  is  enough  take  it  up  and  lay  it 
on  your  difh,  fkim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  and 
ftrain  it,  then  put  in  a  glafs  of  Madeira  wine, 
one  fpoonful  of  walnut  catchup,  two  of  brown- 
ing, half  a  lemon,  a  little  Chyan,  half  a  pint  of 
oyfters,  thicken  it  with  a  little  butter. rolled  in 
flour,  pour  your  gravy  hot  on  your  lamb  and 
ferve  it  up. 

To  drefs  a  Lamb's  Head  and  Purtenance. 

SKIN  the  head  and  fplit  it,  take  the  black 
part  out  of  the  eyes,  then  wa(h  and  clean  it 
exceeding  well,  lay  it  in  warm  water  till  it  looks 
white,  wafh  and  clean  the  purtenance,  take  off 
the  gall,  and  lay  them  in  water,  boil  it  half  an 
hour,  then  mince  your  heart,  liver,  and  lights, 
very  fmall,  put  the  mincemeat  in  a  toffing-pan 
with  a  quart  of  mutton  gravy,  a  little  catchup, 
pepper  and  fait,  half  a  lemon,  thicken  it  with 
flour  and  butter,  a  fpoonful  of  good  cream,  and 
juft  boil  it  up  1  when  your  head  is  boiled,  rub  it 
over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  ftrew  over  it  bread 
crumbs,  a  little  fhred  parfley,  pepper  and  fait, 
bafle ii  well  with  butter,  and  brown  it  before  the 

lire, 


no  THE    EXPERIENCED 

five,  or  with  a  falamander,  put  the  purtenance 
on  your  difh,  and  lay  the  head  over  it:  garniih. 
with  lemon  or  pickle,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To fricajfee  Lamb  Stones. 

SKIN  fix  lamb  ftones,  or  what  quantity  you 
pleafe,  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry  them  in 
hog's-lard  a  nice  brown,  have  ready  a  little  veal 
gravy,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  put  in 
a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  little  mufh- 
room  catchup,  a  flice  of  lemon,  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  mix  it 
with  two  fpoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  put  in  your 
gravy,  keep  (haking  it  over  the  fire  till  it  looks 
white  and  thick,  then  put  in  the  lamb  ftones, 
and  give  them  a  (hake  j  when  they  are  hot,  difh 
them  up,  and  lay  round  them  boiled  foremeat 
balls. 

To  roqft  a  Pig  in  Imitation  of  Lam-b. 

LET  your  pig  be  a  month  or  five  weeks  old, 
divide  it  down  the  middle,  take  off  the  fhoulder, 
and  leave  the  reft  to  the  hind  part,  then  take  the 
fkin  off,  draw  -{prigs  of  pariley  all  over  "the  out- 
lide,  which  muft  be  done  by  running  a  fkewer 
or  larding  pin,  and  {ticking  the  ftalk  of  the  par- 
iley in  it;  fpit  it  and  roaft  it  before  a  quick  fire, 
dredge  it  and  bafte  it  well  with  freili  butter,  roaft 
it  a  fine  brown,  and  fend  it  up  with  a  froth  on 
it:  garnifh  with  green  pariley,  it  will  eat  and 
look  like  fat  iamb.— It  is  eat  with  fallad. 


Tt 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER,     ill 

To  barbecue  a  Pig. 

DRESS  a  pig  of  ten  weeks  old  as  if  it  were 
to  be  roafted,  make  a  forcemeat  of  two  ancho- 
vies, fix  fage  leaves,  and  the  liver  of  the  pig, 
all  chopped  very  fmall  -,  then  put  them  into  a 
marble  mortar,  with  the  crumbs  of  half  a  penny 
loaf,  four  ounces  of  butter,  half  a  tea  fpoonful 
of  Chyan  pepper,  and  half  a  pint  of  red  wine, 
beat  them  all  together  to  a  paite,  put  it  in  your 
pig's  belly  and  few  it  up,  lay  your  pig  down  at 
a  good  diftance  before  a  large  briik  fire,  finge  it 
well,  put  in  your  dripping-pan  three  bottles  of 
red  wine,  bafte  it  with  the  wine  all  the  time  it  is 
foafting,  when  it  is  half  roafted,  put  under  your 
pig  two  penny  loaves,  if  you  have  not  wine 
enough,  put  in  more,  when  your  pig  is  near 
enough,  take  the  loaves  and  fauce  out  of  your 
dripping-pan,  put  to  the  fauce  one  anchovy 
chopped  fmall,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  and  half 
a  lemon,  boil  it  a  few  minutes,  then  draw  your 
pig,  put  a  fmall  lemon  or  apple  in  the  pig's 
mouth,  and  a  loaf  on  each  fide,  ftrain  your 
fauce  and  pour  it  on  them  boiling  hot,  lay  bar* 
berries,  and  flices  of  lemon  round  it,  and  fend 
it  up  whole  to  the  table. — It  is  a  grand  bottom 
difh.     It  will  take  four  hours  roafting. 

To  barbecue  a  Leg  of  Pork. 

LAY  down  your  leg  to  a  good  fire,  put  into 
the  dripping-pan  two  bottles  of  red  wine,  baila 
your  pork  with  it  all  the  time  it  is  roafting,  when 
it  is  enough,  take  up_what  is  left  in  the  pan,  put 

to 


112  THE    EXPERIENCED 

to  it  two  anchovies,the  yolks  of  three  eggs  boiled 
hard  and  pounded  fine,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  and  half  a  lemon,  a  bunch  of  fweet 
herbs,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  fpoon- 
ful  of  catchup,  and  one  of  tarragon  vinegar,  or 
a  little  tarragon  fhred  fmall,  boil;  them  a  few 
minutes,  then  draw  your  pork,  and  cut  the  fkin 
down  from  the  bottom  of  the  fhank  in  rows  an 
inch  broad,  raiie  every  other  row  and  roll  it  to 
the  fhank, ftrain  your  fauce  and  pour  it  on  boiling 
hot,  lay  oyfter  patties  all  round  the  pork,  and 
fprigs  of  green  pariley. 

To  Jlaff  a  Chine  of  Pork. 

TAKE  a  chine  that  has  been  hung  about  a 
month,  boil  it  half  an  hour,  then  take  it  up  and 
make  holes  in  it  all  over  the  lean  partv  one  inch 
from  another,  fluff  them  betwixt  the  joints 
with  fhred  parfley,  rub  it  all  over  with  the  yolk 
of  eggs,  ftrew  over  it  bread  crumbs,  bafte  it 
and  fet  it  in  a  Dutch  oven,  when  it  is  enough 
lay  round  it  boiled  brocoli,  or  ftewed  fpinage : 
garnifh  with  pariley. 

To  roaft  a  Ham  or  a  Gammon  of  Bacon. 

HALF  boil  your  ham  or  gammon,  then  take 
off  the  fkin,  dredge  it  with  oatmeal  fifted  very 
fine,  bafte  it  with  frefh  butter,  it  will  make  a 
ftronger  froth  than  either  flour  or  bread  crumbs, 
then  roafl  it;  when  it  is  enough  difh  it  up  and 
pour  brown  gravy  on  your  difh  :  garnifh  with 
green  pariley  and  fend  it  to  the  table. 

To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      113 

To  force  the  Injide  of  a  Surloin  of  Beef. 

SPIT  your  furloin,  then  cut  off  from  the in- 
fide  all  the  fkin  and  fat  together,  and  then  take 
off  all  the  flefh  to  the  bones,  chop  the  meat 
very  fine  with  a  little  beaten  mace,  two  or  three 
fhalots,  one  anchovy,  half  a  pint  of  red  wiae, 
a  little  pepper  and  fait,  and  put  it  on  the  bones 
again,  lay  your  fat  and  fkin  on  again,  and  fkewer 
it  clofe  and  paper  it  well,  when  roafted  take  off 
the  fat,  and  dim  up  the  furloin,  pour  over  it  a 
fauce  made  of  a  little  red  wine,  a  fhalot,  one 
anchovy,  two  or  three  flices  of  horfe-radifh,  and 
ferve  it  up. 

To  drefs  the  Injide  of  a  cold  Surloin  of  Beef. 

CUT  out  all  the  infide  (free  from  fat)  of  the 
furloin  in  pieces  as  thick  as  your  finger  and  about 
two  inches  long,  dredge  it  with  a  little  flour,  and 
fry  it  in  nice  butter  of  a  light  brown,  then  drajn 
it,  and  tofs  it  up  in  rich  gravy  that  has  been  well 
feafoned,  with  pepper,  fait,  fhalot,  and  an  an- 
chovy; juft  before  you  fend  it  up,  add  twofpoon- 
fuls  of  vinegar  taken  from  pickled  capers  :  gar- 
nifh  with  fried  oyflers,  or  what  you  pleafe. 

Bouillie  Beef. 

TAKE  the  thick  end  of  a  brifket  of  beef, 
put  it  into  a  kettle  of  water  quite  covered  over, 
let  it  boil  faft  for  two  hours,  then  keep  ftewing 
it  clofe  by  the  fire  for  fix  hours  more,  and  as  the 
water  wafies  fill  up  the  kettle,  put  in  with  the 
beef  fome  turnips  cut  in  little  balls,  carrots,  and 

I  fome 


114  THE  EXPERIENCED 

fome  clary  cut  in  pieces :  an  hour  before  it  is 
done  take  out  as  much  broth  as  will  fill  your 
foup  difh,  and  boil  in  it  for  that  hour  turnips 
and  carrots  cut  out  in  balls  or  in  little  fquare 
pieces,  with  fome  celery,  fait  and  pepper  to 
your  tafte,  ferve  it  up  in  two  dimes,  the  beef 
by  itfelf,  and  the  foup  by  itfelf;  you  may  put 
pieces  of  fried  bread,  if  you  like  it,  in  your 
ioup,  boil  in  a  few  knots  of  greens,  and  if  you 
think  your  foup  will  not  be  rich  enough,  you 
may  add  a  pound  or  two  of  fried  mutton  chops 
to  your  broth  when  you  take  it  from  the  beef, 
and  let  it  flew  for  that  hour  in  the  broth, 
but  be  fure  to  take  out  the  mutton  when 
you  fend  it  to  the  table  :  the  foup  muft  be 
very  clear. 

Tojiew  a  Rump  of  Beef. 

HALF  roaft  your  beef,  then  put  it  in  a  large 
faucepan  or  caldron,  with  two  quarts  of  water, 
and  one  of  red  wine,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
a  fhalot,  one  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  two  of 
walnut  catchup,  the  fame  of  browning,  Chyan 
pepper  and  fait  to  your  tafte,  let  it  flew  over  a 
gentle  fire,  clofe  covered  for  two  hours,  then 
take  up  your  beef,  and  lay  it  on  a  deep  difh,  fkim 
off  the  fat,  and  ftrain  the  gravy,  and  put  in  one 
ounce  of  morels,  and  half  a  pint  of  mufhrooms, 
thicken  your  gravy  and  pour  it  over  your  beef, 
lay  round  it  forcemeat  balls  ;  garnifh  with  horfe- 
radiih,  and  ferve  it  up," 

n 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.      115 

To  Jlew  #  Rump  of  Beef  afecondWay. 

STUFF  your  beef  with  three  cloves  of  gar- 
lick  in  different  parts,  make  a  hole  with  afkewer, 
and  get  in  the  garlick  as  far  as  about  one  half 
your  finger  can  reach,  fluff  it  likewife  in  feveral 
places  with  forcemeat,  in  the  making  of  which* 
put  fome  fat  bacon  cut  in  very  final  1  flices,  then 
put  your  beef  into  the  pot  the  right  fide  under, 
cut    about  a  pound  of  fuet  over  it,  five  or  fix 
ounces  of  bacon  fliced,  and   as  much   water  as 
will  cover  it,  then  fet  the  pot  over  the  fire,   let 
it  boil  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  then  cover 
the  pot  quite  clofe,  and  let  it  flew  for  four  hours 
over  a  moderate  fire,  after  which  take  it  up,  and 
pour  every  drop  of  liquor  from    it,  and  put  a 
quart  of  claret  over  it,  and  fet  it  on  a  very  flow 
fire  while  you  are  preparing  the  fauce,  which  is 
to  be  either  of  turnips,  or  carrots,  or  pallets,  cut 
as  for  a  ragoo ;  put  in  as  much  broth  as  you  think 
fufiicient,  with  fome  of   the    clear  gravy  free 
from  fat  that  you  poured  off  the  beef,  in  a  flew- 
pan  j  boil  them  a  little  with  morels,  truffles,  and 
a  glafs  of  claret,  and  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour* 
which   mufl  be  tofTed  up  together,  aad  difh  it 
up  very  hot. 

A  Fricando  of  Beef. 

CUT  a  few  flices  of  beef  five  or  fix  inches 
long,  and  half  an  inch  thick,  lard  it  with  bacon, 
dredge  it  well  with  flour,  and  fet  it  before  a 
brifk  fire  to  brown,  then  put  it  in  a  toiling  pan, 
with  a  quart  of  gravy,  a  few  morels  and  truffles, 

I  2  half 


Ii6  THE   EXPERIENCED 

half  a  lemon,  and  flew  them  half  an  hour,  then 
addonefpoonful  of  catchup,  the  fame  of  brown- 
ing, and  a  little  Chyan,  thicken  your  fauce  and 
pour  it  over  your  fricando,  lay  round  them  force- 
meat balls,  and  the  yolks  of  hard  eggs. 

To  a-la-mode  Beef. 

TAKE  the  bone  out  of  a  rump  of  beef,  lard 
the  top  with  bacon,  then  make  a  forcemeat  of 
four  ounces  of  marrow,  two  heads  of  garlick, 
the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  few  fweet  herbs 
chopped  fmall,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
tafle,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beat,  mix 
it  up,  and  fluff  your  beef  where  the  bone  came 
out,  and  in  feveral  places  in  the  lean  part,  fkewer 
it  round  and  bind  it  about  with  a  fillet,  put  it  in 
a  pot  with  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  tie  it  down 
with  flrong  paper,  bake  it  in  the  oven  for  three 
hours ;  when  it  comes  out,  if  you  want  to  eat  it 
hot,  fkim  the  fat  off  the  gravy,  and  add  half  an 
ounce  of  morels,  a  fpoonful  of  pickled  mufh- 
rooms,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  difh  up 
vour  beef  and  pour  on  the  gravy,  lay  round  it 
forcemeat  balls,  and  fend  it  up. 

To  make  a  Porcupine  of  the  Flat  Ribs  of 

Beef. 

BONE  the  flat  ribs,  and  beat  it  half  an  hour 
with  a  pafle  pin,  then  rub  it  over  with  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  flrew  over  it  bread  crumbs,  parfley, 
leeks,  iweet  marjorum,  lemon  peel  fhred  fine, 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  roll  it  up  very  clofe, 
and  bind  uhard,  lard  it  acrofs  with  bacon,  then 

a  row 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       117 

a  row  of  cold  boiled  tongue,  a  third  row  of 
pickled  cucumbers,  a  fourth  row  of  lemon  peel, 
do  it  all  over  in  rows  as  above  till  it  is  larded  all 
round,  it  will  look  like  red,  green,  white,  and 
yellow  dices,  then  fjplit  it  or  put  it  in  a  deep  pot 
with  a  pint  of  water,  lay  over  the  caul  of  veal 
to  keep  it  from  fcorching^  tie  it  down  with  ftrong 
paper,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven,  when  it  comes 
out  fkim  off  the  fat,  and  ftrain  your  gravy  into 
a  faucepan,  add  to  it  two  fpoonfuls  of  red  wine, 
the  fame  of  browning,  one  of  mu (broom  catch- 
up, half  a  lemon,  thicken  it  with  a  lump  of  but- 
ter rolled  in  flour,  difhup  the  meat,  and  pour  the 
gravy  on  the  difh,  lay  round  forcemeat  balls  : 
garnifh  with  horfe-radifh,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  make  Brisket  of  Beef  a-la-royal. 

BONE  a  brifket  of  beef,  and  make  holes  in 
it  with  a  knife,  about  an  inch  one  from  another, 
fill  one  hole  with  fat  bacon,  a  fecond  with  chop- 
ped parfley,  and  a  third  with  chopped  oyiters, 
feafoned  with  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  till  you 
have  done  the  brilket  over,  then  pour  a  pint  of 
red  wine  boiling  hot  upon  the  beef,  dredge  it 
well  with  flour,  fend  it  to  the  oven,  and  bake  it 
three  hours  or  better ;  when  it  comes  out  of 
the  oven  take  off  the  fat,  and  ftrain  the  gravy 
over  your  beef:  garnifh  with  pickles,  and  ferve 
it  up. 

Beef  Olives. 

CUT   flices  off  a   rump  of  beef  about  fix 
inches  long  and  half  an  inch  thick,  beat  them 

I  3  with 


n8  THE   EXPERIENCED 

with  a  parte  pin,  and  rub  them  over  with  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  a  little  pepper,  fait,  and  beaten 
mace,  the  crumbs  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  two 
ounces  of  marrow  fliced  fine,  a  handful  of  parlley 
chopped  fmall,  and  the  out-rind  of  half  a  lemon 
grated,  ftrew  them  all  over  your  (teaks,  and  roll 
them  up,  fkewer  them  quite  clofe,  and  fet  them 
before  the  fire  to  brown,  then  put  them  into  a 
toiling  pan  with  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  fpoonful  of 
catchup,  the  fame  of  browning,  a  tea  fpoonful 
of  lemon  pickle,  thicken  it  with  a  little  butter 
rolled  in  flour  :  lay  round  forcemeat  balls,  mufti-? 
rooms,  or  the  yolks  of  hard  eggs. 

To  make   Mock    Hare    of  a    Beast's 
Heart. 

WASH  a  large  heart's  heart  clean,  and  cut 
off  the  deaf  ears,  and  fluff  it  with  fome  force- 
meat, as  you  do  a  hare,  lay  a  caul  of  veal,  or 
paper  over  the  top,  to  keep  in  the  fluffing,  roafl 
it  either  in  a  cradle  fpit  or  hanging  one,  it  will 
take  an  hour  and  a  half  before  a  good  fire,  bafte 
it  with  red  wine ;  when  roafted  take  the  wine 
out  of  the  dripping-pan,  and  ikim  off  the  fat, 
and  add  a  glais  more  of  wine,  when  it  is  hot 
put  in  fome  lumps  of  red  currant  jelly,  and  pour 
it  in  the  difh,  ferve  it  up,  and  fend  in  red  cur«=* 
rant  jelly  cut  in  flices  on  a  faucer. 

Beef  Heart  larded. 

TAKE  a  good  beaft's  heart,  fluff  it  as  before,, 
and  lard  it  all  over  with  little  bits  of  bacon,  duft 

it 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       119 

it  with  flour,  and  cover  it  with  paper,  to  keep 
it  from  being  too  dry,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven  ; 
when  baked  put  the  heart  on  your  difh,  take  off 
the  fat  and  flrain  the  gravy  through  a  hair  fieve, 
put  it  in  a  faucepan  with  one  fpoonful  of  red 
wine,  the  fame  of  browning,  and  one  of  lemon 
pickle,  half  an  ounce  of  morels,  one  anchovy 
cut  fmall,  a  little  beaten  mace,  thicken  it  with 
flour  and  butter,  pour  it  hot  on  your  heart,  and 
ferve  it  up  :  garnifh  with  barberries, 

Tojiew  Ox  Palates. 

WASH  four  ox  palates  in  feveral  waters,  and 
then  lay  them  in  warm  water  for  half  an  hour, 
then  wafh  them  out  and  put  them  in  a  pot,  and 
tie  them  down  with  ftrong  paper,  and  fend  them. 
to   the  oven  with  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them,  or  boil  them  till  tender,  then  ikin  them, 
and  cut  them  in  pieces,  half  an  inch  broad  and 
three  inches  long,  and  put  them  in  a  toiling 
pan  with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  one  fpoonful  of 
Madeira  wine,  the  fame  of  catchup  and  brown- 
ing, one  onion  fluck  with  cloves,  and  a  flice  of 
lemon,  flew  them  half  an  hour,  then  take  out 
the  onion  and  lemon,  thicken  your  fauce,  and 
put  them  in  a  difh  -3  have  ready  boiled  artichoke 
bottoms,  cut  them  in  quarters,   and  lay  them 
over  your  palates,  with  forcemeat  balls  and  mo- 
rels :  garnifh  with  lemon,  and  ferve  them  up, 

"Tofricando  Ox  Palates, 

WHEN   you  have  wafhed  and  cleaned  your 
palates  as  before,  cut  them  in  fquare  pieces,  lard 

I  4  therr\ 


ISO  THE  EXPERIENCED 

them  with  little  bits  of  bacon,  fry  them  in 
hog's  lard,  a  pretty  brown,  and  put  them  in  a 
fieve  to  drain  the  fat  from  them,  then  take  bet- 
ter than  half  a  pint  of  beef  gravy,  one  fpoonful 
of  red  wine,  half  as  much  of  browning,  a  lit- 
tle lemon  pickle,  one  anchovy,  a  fhalot,  ancLa 
bit  of  horfe  radifh;  give  them  a  boil,  and  (train 
your  gravy,  then  put  in  your  palates,  and  ftew 
them  half  anhour,  make  your  fauce  pretty  thick, 
difh  them  up,  and  lay  round  them  ftewed  fpi- 
nage  preffed  and  cut  like  fippets,  and  ferve  them 
up. 

To  fricajfee  Ox  Palates. 

CLEAN  your  palates  very  well  as  before,  put 
them  in  a  ftew-pot,  and  cover  them  with  water, 
fet  them  in  the  oven  for  three  or  four  hours  3 
when  they  come  from  the  oven  ftrip  off  the 
fkins,  and  cut  them  in  fquare  pieces,  feafon  them 
with  mace,  nutmeg,  Chyan,  and  fait,  mix  a 
fpoonful  of  flour  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
dip  in  your  palates,  and  fry  them  alight  brown, 
then  put  them  in  a  fieve  to  drain  ;  have  ready 
half  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  with  a  little  caper 
liquor,  a  fpoonful  of  browning,  and  afew  mufli- 
rooms,  thicken  it  well  with  flour  and  butter, 
pour  it  hot  on  your  difh,  and  lay  in  your  pa- 
lates :  garnifh  with  fried  pariley  and  barberries. 

Tojiew  a  Turkey  with  Celery  Sauce. 

TAKE  a  large  turkey,  and  make  a  good 
white  forcemeat  of  veal,  and  fluff  the  craw  of 
the  turkey,   fkewer  it  as  for  boiling,  then  boii 

it 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  X2i 
it  in  foft  water  till  it  is  almoft  enough,  and  thea 
take  up  your  turkey,  and  put  it  in  a  pot  with 
fome  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  in,  to  keep  it 
hot,  put  kvcn  or  eight  heads  of  celery,  that  are 
warned  and  cleaned  very  w/ell,  into  the  water 
that  the  turkey  was  boiled  in,  till  they  are  ten- 
der, then  take  them  up,  and  put  in  your  turkey 
with  the  bread  down,  and  itew  it  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  then  take  it  up,  and  thicken  your  fauce 
with  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  flour  to  make 
it  pretty  thick,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rich 
cream,  then  put  in  your  celery;  pour  the  fauce 
and  celery  hot   upon    the    turkey's  breafr,   and 

ferve  it  up.' It  is  a  proper  dim  for  dinner  or 

fupper. 

To  Jlew  a  Turkey  brown. 

WHEN  you  have  drawn  the  craw  out  of 
your  turkey,  cut  it  up  the  back,  and  take  out  the 
entrails,  that  the  turkey  may  appear  whole,  and 
take  all  the  bones  out  of  the  body  very  carefully, 
the  rump,  legs,  and  wings  are  to  be  left  whole, 
then  take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  and  chop 
half  a  hundred  of  oyfters  very  fmal],  with  half  a 
pound  of  beef  marrow,a  little  lemon  peel  cut  fine, 
and  pepper  and  fait,  mix  them  well  up  together 
with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  fluff  your  tur- 
key with  it,  few  it  up  and  iard  it  down  each  fide 
with  bacon,  half  road:  it,  then  put  it  into  a  tof- 
fing  pan  with  two  quarts  of  veal  gravy,  and 
cover  it  clofe  up  ;  when  it  has  flewed  one  hour, 
add  a  fpoonful  of  mufhroom  catchup,  half  an 
anchovy,  a  flice  or  two  of  lemon,  a  little  Chyan 
pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs  -,  cover  them 

clofe 


12%  THE    EXPERIENCED 

clofe  up  again,  and  flew  it  half  an  hour  longer, 
then  take  it  up  and  Hum  the  fat  off  the  gravy, 
and  flrain  it,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter, 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  it  hot  upon 
your  turkey :  lay  round  it  oyfler  patties,  and 
ferve  it  ud. 

A  Turkey  a-la-daub,  to  be  fent  up  hot. 

CUT  the  turkey  down  the  back  jufl  enough 
to  bone  it,  without  fpoiling  the  look  of  it,  then 
fluff  it  with  a  nice  forcemeat  made  of  oyflers 
chopped  fine,  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper,  fait, 
fhalots,  a  very  little  thyme,  parfley  and  butter, 
fill  it  as  full  as  you  like,  and  few  it  up  with  a 
thread,  tie  it  up  in  a  clean  cloth  and  boil  it  very 
white,  but  not  too  much.     You  may  ferve  it 
up  writh  oyfler  fauce  made  good,  or  take  the 
bones  with  a  piece  of  veal,  mutton,  and  bacon, 
and  make  a  rich  gravy  feafoned  with  pepper, 
fait,   fhalots,  and  a  little  bit  of  mace,  flrain  it 
off  through  a  fieve,  and  flew  your  turkey  in  it 
(after  it  is  half  boiled)  juft  half  an  hour,  difh 
it  up  in  the  gravy  after   it  is  well  fkimmed, 
flrained,  and  thickened  with  a  few  mufhrooms 
flewred  white,  or  flewed  pallets,  forcemeat  balls, 
fried  oyflers,  or  fweet-breads,  and  pieces  of  le- 
mon.    Difh  it  up  with  the  bread  upwards  ;  if 
you  fend  it  up  garniihed  with  pallets,  take  care, 
to  have  them  flewed  tender  firft;   before  you 
add  them   to  the  turkey,  you  may  put  a  few 
morels  and  truffles  in  your  fauce  if  you  like  it, 
but  take  care  to  wafh  them  clean. 

Turkey 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     12% 

Turkey  a-la-daub,  to  be  fent  up  cold. 

BONE  the  turkey  and  feafon  it  with  pepper 
and  fait,  then  fpread  over  it  fome  flices  of  ham, 
upon  that  fome  forcemeat,  upon  that  a  fowl, 
boned  and  feafoned  as  above,  then  more  ham 
and  forcemeat,  then  few  it  up  with  thread; 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  ftew-pan  with  veal  and 
ham,  then  lay  in  the  turkey  the  breafl  down, chop 
all  the  bones  to  pieces,  and  put  them  on  the  tur- 
nkey, cover  the  pan  and  fet  it  on  the  fire  five 
minutes,  then  put  in  as  much  clear  broth  as  will 
cover  it,  let  it  boil  two  hours,  when  it  is  more 
than  half  done,  put  in  one  ounce  of  ifinglafs 
and  a  bundle  of  herbs.  When  it  is  done  enough 
take  out  the  turkey,  and  ftrain  the  jelly  through 
a  hair  fieve,  fkim  off  all  the  fat,  and  when  it  is 
cold  lay  the  turkey  upon  it  the  bread  down, 
and  cover  it  with  the  reft  of  the  jelly.  Let  it 
itand  in  fome  cold  place;  when  you  ferve  it  up, 
turn  it  on  the  dim  it  is  to  be  ferved  in  :  if  you 
pleafe  you  may  fpread  butter  over  the  turkey's 
bread:,  and  put  fome  green  parfley  or  flowers,  or 
what  you  pleafe*  and  in.  what  form  you  like. 

Fov/ls  a-la-lrraize, 

SKEWER  your  fowl  as  for  boiling,  with  the 
legs  in  the  body,  then  lay  over  it  a  layer  of  fat 
bacon,  cut  in  pretty  thin  flices,  then  wrap  it 
round  in  beet  leaves,  then  in  a  caul  of  veal,  and 
put  it  into  a  large  faucepan  with  three  pints  of 
water,  a  glafs  of  Madeira  wine,  a  bunch  of 
iweefc  herbs,  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  and 

half 


124  THE   EXPERIENCED 

half  a  lemon,  ftew  it  till  quite  tender,  take  it 
up  and  fkim  of?  the  fat,  make  your  gravy  Dretty 
thick  with  flour  and  butter,  and  ftrain  it  through 
a  hair  fieye,  and  put  to  it  a  pint  of  oyfters,  a 
tea-cup  full  of  thick  cream,  keep  making  your 
toiling  pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  has  fim- 
roered  a  little,  ferve  up  your  fowl  with  the 
bacon,  beet  leaves,  and  caul  on,  and  pour  your 
iauce  hot  upon  it :  garniih  with  barberries,  or 
red  beet  root, 

To  force  a  Fowl. 

TAKE  a  large  fowl,  pick  it  clean  and  cut  k 
down  the  back,  take  out  the  entrails  and  take 
the  fein  off  whole,  cut  the  flem  from  the  bones 
and  chop  it  with  half  a  pint  of  oyfters,  one 
ounce  of  beef  marrow,  a  little  pepper  and  fait, 
mix  it  up  with  cream,  then  lay  the  meat  on  the 
bones  and  draw  the  fkin  over  it  and  few  up  the 
back,  then  cut  large  thin  flices  of  bacon,  and 
lay  them  over  the  breaft  of  your  fowl,  tie  the 
bacon  on  with  a  packthread  in  diamonds,  it  will 
take  one  hour  roafting  by  a  moderate  fire,  make 
a  good  brown  gravy  fauce,  pour  it  upon  your 
diih,  take  the  bacon  off  and  lay  in  your  fowl, 
and  ferve  it  up  :  garniiL  with  pickles,  mufli- 
rooms,  or  oyfters, —  It  is  proper  for  a  fide  difli 
for  dinner,  or  top  for  fupper. 

To  J!evo  Pallets  end  Chickens. 

TO  every  pallet  or  chicken  take  an  anchovy, 
a  little  parfleyand  (halot,  with  the  liver  of  the 

chickens,  (bred  all  thefe  together  very  fine,  and 

fait 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.     125 

fait  to  your  tafte,  and  fluff  the  birds  with  it, 
turn  them  up  fhort  as  for  boiling,  tie  them  in 
cloths,  boil  the  pallets  an  hour  at  leaii,  the 
chickens  not  above  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in 
milk  and  water  with  a  little  fait  in  it ;  make  the 
fauce  with  a  little  white  gravy  and  white  wine, 
and  with  it  flew  a  good  many  oyfters  and  fha- 
lots,  beat  it  up  thick  with  a  lump  of  butter, 
(you  may,  if  you  pleafe,  leave  out  the  wine, 
and  mix  a  little  cream  in  the  fauce  initead  of  it) 
your  gravy  mufl  be  made  of  veal ;  when  the 
chickens  are  boiled,  and  the  pallets  are  fie  wed 
tender,  tofs  them  up  together  in  the  gravy  and 
oyfters,  fend  them  hot  to  the  table,  the  chickens 
in  the  middle,  and  the  pallets  round  them,  with 
a  few  white  balls  made  of  veal ;  you  may  add 

fweet-breads. This  is  a   very  good  way  to 

flew  a  turkey.  The  water  the  pallets  were 
boiled  in  will  be  extremely  good  to  make  gravy, 
adding  to  it  a  good  piece  of  veal,  mutton,  and 
bacon. 

To  fricafee  Chickens. 

SKIN  them  and  cut  them  in  fmall  pie 
wafh  them  in  warm  water,  and  then  dry  them 
very  clean  with  a  cloth,  feafoo  them  with  pepper 
and  fait,  and  then  put  them  into  a  iiew-pan  v \ 
a  little  fair  water,  and  a  good  piece  of  butter,  a 
little  lemon  pickle,  or  half  a  lemon,  a  glafs  of 
white  wine,  one  anchovy,  a  little  mace  and  nut- 
meg, an  onion  iluck  with  cloves,  a  bunch  of  le- 
mon thyme  and  fweet  marjoram,  let  them  ftew 
together  till  your  chickens  are  tender,  and  then 

3       laX 


i26        THE  EXPERIENCED 

lay  them  on  your  difh,  thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour  and  butter,  (train  it,  then  beat  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  a  little,  and  mix  them  with  a  large 
tea-cup  full  of  rich  cream,  and  put  it  in  your 
gravy,  and  (hake  it  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil,  and  pour  it  over  your  chickens. 

To  force  Chickens. 

ROAST  your  chickens  better  than  half,  take 
off  the  (kin, then  the  meat,  and  chop  it  fmall  with 
(hred  parfley  and  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper  and 
fait,  and  a  little  good  cream,  then  put  in  the 
meat  and  clofe  the  (kin,  brown  it  with  a  fala- 
mander,  and  ferve  it  up  with  white  fauce. 

To  make  artificial  Chickens  or  Pigeons. 

MAKE  a  rich  forcemeat  with  veal,  lamb,  or 
chickens,  feafoned  with  pepper,  fait,  parfley, 
a  fhalot,  a  piece  of  fat  bacon,  a  little  butter, 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  work  it  up  in  the  (hape 
of  pigeons  or  chickens,  putting  the  foot  of  the 
bird  you  intend  it  for  in  the  middle,  fo  as  juft 
to  appear  at  the  bottom,  roll  the  forcemeat  very 
■well  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  then  in  the  crumbs 
of  bread,  fend  them  to  the  oven,  and  bake  it  a 
light  brown,  do  not  let  them  touch  each  other* 
put  them  on  tin  plates  well  buttered,  as  you  fend 
them  to  the  oven  :  you  may  fend  them  to  the 
table  dry,  or  gravy  in  the  difh,  juft  as  you  like 

To  marinate  a  Goose. 
CUT  your  goofe  up  the  back  bone,  then  take 
out  ail  the  bones,  and  (luff  it  with  forcemeat, 

and 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.'     127 

and  few  up  the  back  again,  fry  the  goofe  a  good 
brown,  then  put  it  into  a  deep  ftew-pan  with 
two  quarts  of  good  gravy  and  cover  it  clofe,  and 
ftew  it  two  hours,  then  take  it  out  and  fkim  off 
the  fat,  add  a  large  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  one 
of  browning,  and  one  of  red  wine,  one  anchovy 
fhred  fine,  beaten  mace,  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
palate,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  boil  it  a 
little,  difh  up  your  goofe,  and  /train  your  gravy 
over  it. — AT.  B.  Make  your  fluffing  thus,  take 
ten  or  twelve  fage  leaves,  two  large  onions,  two 
or  three  large  fharp  apples,  fhred  them  very  fine, 
mix  them  with  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  leaf,  four 
ounces  of  beef  marrow,  one  glafs  of  red  wine, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little 
lemon  peel  fhred  fmall,  make  a  light  fluffing 
with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  obferve  to  make  it 
one  hour  before  you  want  it. 

To  Jew  Ducks. 

TAKE  three  young  ducks,  lard  them  down 
each  fide  the  breafl,  du(l  them  with  flour  and 
fet  them  before  the  fire  to  brown,  then  put  them 
in  a  ftew-pan  with  a  quart  of  water,  a  pint  of 
red  wine,  one  fpoonful  of  walnut  catchup,  the 
fame  of  browning,  one  anchovy,  half  a  lemon, 
a  clove  of  garlick,  a  bundle  of  fweet  herbs,  Chyan 
pepper  to  your  tafte,  let  them  flew  flowly  for 
half  an  hour  or  till  they  are  tender,  lay  them  on 
a  difh  and  keep  them  hot,  fkim  off  the  fat,  flrain 
your  gravy  through  a  hair  fieve,  add  to  it  a  few 
morels  and  truffles,  boil  it  quick  till  reduced  to 
little  more  than  half  a  pint,  pour  it  over  your 
4  ducks 


228  THE    EXPERIENCED 

ducks  and  fervc  it  up. It  is  proper  for  a  Me 

dim  for  dinner,  or  bottom  for  fupper. 

Ti  Jlew  Ducks  with  G-reen  Peas, 

HALF  rcaft  your  ducks,  then  put  them  into  a 
ftew-pan  with  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  alittle  mint, 
and  three  or  four  fage  leaves  chopped  fmall,  cover 
them  clofe  and  flew  them  half  an  hour,  boil  a 
pint  of  green  peas  as  for  eating,  and  put  them  in 
after  you  have  thickened  the  gravy ;  dim  up  your 
ducks  and  pour  the  gravy  and  peas  over  then"]. 

Ducks  a-la-braize* 

DRESS  and  finge  your  ducks,  lard  them 
quite  through  with  bacon  rolled  in  fhred  par~ 
fley,  thyme,  onions,  beaten  rnace,  cloves,  pepper 
and  fait,  put  in  the  bottom  of  a  flew-pan  a  few 
flices  of  fat  bacon,  the  fame  of  ham  or  gammon 
of  bacon,  two  or  three  flices  of  veal  or  beef,  lay 
your  ducks  in  with  the  breafl  down,  and  cover 
the  ducks  with  flices  the  fame  as  put  under  them,, 
cut  in  a  carrot  or  two,  a  turnip,  one  onion,  a 
head  of  celery,  a  blade  of  mace,  four  or  five 
cloves,  a  little  whole  pepper,  cover  them  clofe 
down,  and  let  them  fnnmer  a  little  over  a  gentle 
ftove  till  the  breaft  is  a  light  brown,  then  put  in 
fome  broth  or  water,  cover  them  as  clofe  down 
again  as  you  can,  flew  them  gently  betwixt  two 
and  three  hours  till  enough,  then  take  parfley,. 
onioR,  or  fhalot,  two  anchovies,  a  few  gherkins 
or  capers,  chop  them  all  very  fine,  put  them  in  a 
ftew-pan  with  partof  theliquor  from  theducks,a 
little  browning,  and  thejuice  of  half  alemon,  boil 

it 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      129 

it  up,  and  cut  the  ends  of  thq  bacon  even  with 
the  breafi  of  your  ducks,  lay  them  on  your  difh, 
pour  the  fauce  hot  upon  them,  and  ferve  them 
up  ;  fome  put  garlick  inftead  of  onions. 

Ducks  a~la-mode. 

SLIT  two  ducks  down  the  back,  and  bone 
them  carefully,  make  a  forcemeat  of  the  crumbs 
of  a  penny  loaf,  four  ounces  of  fat  bacon  fcraped, 
a  little  parfley,  thyme,  lemon  peel,  two  fhalots, 
oronioas  ihred  very  fine,  with  pepper,  fait,  and 
nutmeg  to  your  taite,  and  two  eggs,  fluff  your 
ducks  with  it  and  few  them  up,  lard  them  down 
each  fide  of  the  breafi:  with  bacon,  dredge  them 
well  wuh  flour,  and  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven 
to  brown,  then  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan  with 
three  pints  of  gravy,  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  a-  tea 
fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large  one  of  walnut 
and  mumroom  catchup,  one  of  browning,  and 
one  anchovy,  with  Chyan  pepper  to  your  tafte, 
*ftew  them  gently  over  a  flow  fire  for  an  hour, 
when  enough,  thicken  your  gravy,  and  put  in  a 
few  truffles  and   morels,  ftrain  your  gravy  and 

pour  it  upon  them.« You  may  a-la-mode  a 

goofe  the  fame  way. 

Pigeons  compote. 

TAKE  fix  young  pigeons  and  fkewer  them 
as  you  do  for  boiling,  put  forcemeat  into  the 
craws,  lard  them  down  the  bread,  and  fry  them 
brown,  then  put  them  into  a  ftrong  brown  gravy, 
and  let  them  flew  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
thicken  it  with  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour, 

K  when 


i3o  THE   EXPERIENCED 

when  you  difh  them  up,  lay  forcemeat  balls 
round  them,  and  ftrain  the  gravy  over  them.-— 
The  forcemeat  muft  be  made  thus :  grate  the 
crumbs  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  and  fcrape  a  quar« 
terof  a  pound  of  fat  bacon,  inflead  of  fuet,  chop 
a  little  parfley,  thyme,  two  fhalots  or  an  onion, 
grate  a  little  nutmeg,  lemon  peel,  fome  pepper 

and  fait,  mix  them  all  up  with  eggs. It  is 

proper  for  a  top  difh  for  a  fecond  courfe,  or  a  fide 
difh  for  the  firft. 

Pigeons  in  a  hole. 

PICK,  draw,  and  warn  four  young  pigeons, 
flick  their  legs  in  their  belly  as  you  do  boiled 
pigeons  feafon  them  with  pepper,  fait,  and 
beaten  mace,  put  into  the  belly  of  every  pigeon 
a  lump  of  butter  the  fize  of  a  walnut,  lay  your 
pigeons  in  a  pye  difh,  pour  over  them  a  batter 
made  of  three  eggs,  two  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  and 
half  a  pint  of  good  milk,  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven,  and  ferve  them  to  table  in  the  fame  difh. 

Pigeons  tranfmogrified. 

PICK  and  clean  fix  fmall  young  pigeons, 
but  do  not  cut  off  their  heads,  cut  off  their  pi- 
nions, and  boil  them  ten  minutes  in  water,  then 
cut  offtheendsof  fix  large  cucumbers  and  fcrape 
out  the  feeds,  put  in  your  pigeons,  but  let  the 
heads  be  cut  at  the  ends  of  the  cucumbers,  and 
flick  a  bunch  of  barberries  in  their  bills,  and 
then  put  them  in  a  toiling  pan  with  a  pint  of 
veal  gravy,  a  little  anchovy,  a  glafs  of  red  wine, 
a  fpooriful  of  browning,  a  little  flice  of  lemon,  j 

Chyan 


ENGLISH  HOUSEKEEPER.  13.1 
Chyan  and  fait  to  you  tafte,  ftew  them  feven 
minutes,  lake  them  out,  thicken  your  gravy  with 
a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  it  up  and  ftrain 
it  over  your  pigeons,  and  ferve  them  Up, 

To  broil  Pigeons, 

TAKE  young  pigeons,  pick  and  draw  thernj. 
fplit  them  down  the  back,  and  feafon  them  with 
pepper  and  fait,  lay  them  on  the  gridiron  with 
the  breaft  upward,  then  turn  them,  but  be  care- 
ful you  do  not  burn  the  fkin,  rub  them  over  with 
butter,  and  keep  turning  them  till  they  are 
enough,  difh  them  up,  and  lay  round  them 
crifped  parfley,  and  pour  over  them  melted  but- 
ter, or  gravy  which  you  pleafe,  and  fend  them 
up. 

To  &?// Pigeons  in  Rice. 

WHEN  you  have  picked  and  drawn  your  pi- 
geons, turn  the  legs  under  the  wings,  and  cut 
off  the  pinions,  then  lay  over  every  pigeon  thin 
flices  of  bacon,  and  a  large  beet  leaf,  wrap  them 
in  clean  cloths  feparately,  and  boil  them  till 
enough,  have  ready  four  ounces  of  rice  boiled 
foft,  and  put  into  a  fieve  to  drain,  put  the  rice 
into  a  little  good  veal  gravy  thickened  with  flour 
and  butter,  boil  your  rice  a  little  in  the  gravy, 
and  add  two  fpoonfuls  of  .good  cream,  take  your 
pigeons  out  of  the  cloths  and  leave  on  the  bacon 
and  beet  leaves,  pour  the  rice  over  them  and 
ferve  them  up* 


X  2 


132  THE    EXPERIENCED 

:■  A 

To  fricando  Pigeons. 

PICK,  draw,  and  warn  your  pigeons  very 
clean,  fluff  the  craws,  and  lard  them  down  the 
fides  of  the  bread,  fry  them  in  butter  a  fine 
brown,  and  then  put  them  into  a  toffing-pan 
with  a  quart  of  gravy,  flew  them  till  they  are 
tender,  then  take  off  the  fat,  and  put  in  a  tea- 
fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large  fpoonful  of 
browning,  the  fame  of  walnut  catchup,  a  little 
Chyan  and  fait,  thicken  your  gravy  and  add  half 
an  ounce  of  morels,  and  four  yolks  of  hard  eggs; 
lay  the  pigeons  in  your  difh,  and  put  the  morels 
and  eggs  round  them,  and  ftrain  your  fauce  over 
them  :  garnifh  with  barberries  and  lenion  peel, 
and  ferve  it  up. 

Jugged  Pigeons. 

TAKE  fix  pigeons,  pluck  and  draw  them, 
wafh  them  clean  and  dry  them  with  a  cloth, 
feafon  them  with  beaten  mace,  white  pepper,  and 
fait,  put  them  in  a  jug,  and  put  half  a  pound 
of  butter  upon  them,  flop  up  your  jug  clofe 
with  a  cloth  that  no  fleam  can  get  out,  fet  it  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling-  water,  and  let  it  boil  one 
hour  arid  a  half,  then  take  out  your  pigeons, 
and  put  the  gravy  that  is  come  from  the  pigeons 
into  a  pan,  and  put  to  it  one  fpoonful  of  wine, 
one  of  catchup,  a  fiice  of  lemon,  half  an  an- 
chovy chopped  fmall,  and  a  bundle  of  fweet 
herbs,  boil  it  a  little,  thicken  it  with  a  little 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  lay  your  pigeons  on  the 
difli,  and  ftrain  the  gravy  on  them  :  garnifh  with 

parfley 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.     133 

parfleyand  red  cabbage,  and  ferve  them  up,  you 
may  lay  muflirooms  or  forcemeat  balls. — It  is 
a  pretty  fide  or  corner  dim. 

Boiled  Pigeons  and  Bacon. 

TAKE  fix  young  pigeons,  warn  them  clean 
as  before,  turn  their  legs  under  their  wings,  boil 
them  in  milk  and  water  by  themfelves  twenty 
minutes,  have  ready  boiled  a  fquare  piece  of 
bacon,  takeoff  the  fkin  and  brown  it,  put  the 
bacon  in  the  middle  of  your  difh,  and  lay  the 
pigeons  round  it,  and  lumps  of  ftewed  fpinage, 
pour  plain  melted  butter  over  them,  and  fend 
parfley  and  butter  in  a  boat. 

Pigeons  fricajfee. 

CUT  your  pigeons  as  you  would  do  chick- 
ens for  fricaffee,  fry  them  a  light  brown,  then 
put  them  into  fome  good  mutton  gravy,  and  ftew 
them  near  half  an  hour,  and  then  put  in  half  an 
ounce  of  morels,  a  fpoonful  of  browning,  and  a 
flice  of  lemon,  take  up  your  pigeons,  and 
thicken  your  gravy,  (train  it  over  your  pigeons, 
and  lay  round  them  forcemeat  balls,  and  garnifh 
with  pickles. 

Partridge  in  panes. 

HALF  roaft  two  partridges,  and  take  the 
flefli  from  them,  and  mix  it  with  the  crumbs  of 
a  penny  loaf  fteeped  in  rich  gravy,  fix  ounces  of 
beef  marrow,  or  half  a  pound  of  fat  ■  bacon 
fcraped,  ten  morels  boiled  foft  and  cut  fmall, 
two  artichoke  bottoms  boiled  and  fhred  fmall, 

K  3  thff 


134  THE  EXPERIENCED 

the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  pepper,  fait,  nutmeg, 
and  fhred  lemon  peel  to  your  palate,  work  them 
together,  and  bake  them  in  moulds  the  fhape  of 
an  egg,  and  ferve  them  up  cold  or  in  jelly  ;  gar- 
nifh  with  curled  parfley. 

Tojlew  Partridges. 

TRUSS  your  partridges  as  for  roafting,  fluff 
the  craws,  and  lard  them  down  each  fide  of  the 
bread,  then  roll  a  lump  of  butter  in  pepper,  fait, 
and  beaten  mace,  and  put  it  into  the  bellies,  few 
up  the  vents,  dredge  them  well  and  fry  them  a 
light  brown,  then  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan  with 
a  quart  of  good  gravy,  a  fpoonful  of  Madeira 
wine,  the  fame  of  mufhroom  catchup,  a  tea- 
fp:o  -fill  of  lemon  pickle,  and  half  the  quantity 
of  mufhroom  powder,  one  anchovy,  half  a  le- 
mon, a  fpng  ot  Tweet  marjoram,  cover  the  pan 
clofe,  ana  flew  them  half  an  hour,  then  take 
them  out  and  thicken  the  gravy,  boil  it  a  little 
and  pour  it  over  the  partridges,  and  lay  round 
them  artichoke  bottoms  boiled  and  cut  in  quar- 
ters, and  the  yolks  of  four  hard  eggs,  if  agree-? 
able. 

Tojlew  Partridges  afecond  Way. 

TAKE  three  partridges  when  dreffed,  finge 
them,  blanch  and  beat  three  ounces  of  almonds, 
and  grate  the  fame  quantity  of  fine  white  bread, 
Chop  three  anchovies,  mix  them  with  fix  ounces 
of  butter,  fluff  the  partridges,  and  few  them  up 
at  both  ends,  trufsthem,  and  wrap  flices  of  fat 
bacon  round  them,  half  roaft  them,  then  take 

one 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.      135 

one  and  pull  the  meat  off  the  breaft,  and  beat  it 
in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  forcemeat  it  was 
fluffed  with,  have  ready  a  ftrong  gravy  made  of 
ham  and  veal,  ftrain  it  into  a  ftew-pan,  then  take 
the  bacon  off  the  other  two,  wipe  them  clean 
and  put  them  into  the  gravy  with  a  good  deal  of 
fhalots,  let  them  ftew  till  tender,  then  take  them 
out,  and  boil  the  gravy  till  it  is  almoft  as  thick 
as  bread  fauce,  then  add  to  it  a  glafs  of  fweet 
oil,  the  fame  of  Champagne,  and  the  juice  of 
a  China  orange,  put  your  partridges  in,  and  make 
them  hot :  garnifh  with  flices  of  bacon  and 
lemon. 

Tojiew  a  Hare. 

WHEN  you  have  paunched  and  cafed  your 
hare,  cut  her  as  for  eating,  put  her  into  a  large 
fauce-pan  with  three  pints  of  beef  gravy,  a  pint  of 
red  wine,  a  large  onion  fluck  with  cloves,  a 
bundle  of  winter  favory,  a  llice  of  horfe  radifh, 
two  blades  of  beaten  mace,  one  anchovy,  a 
fpoonful  of  walnut  or  mum  catchup,  one  of 
browning,  half  a  lemon,  Chyan  and  fait  to  your 
tafte,  put  on  a  clofe  cover,  and  fet  it  over  a  gentle 
fire,  and  ftew  it  for  two  hours,  then  take  it  up 
into  a  foup  difh,  and  thicken  your  gravy  with  a 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  it  a  little, 
and  itrain  it  over  your  hare  :  garnifh  with  lemon 
peel  cut  like  ftraws,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  jug  a  Hare. 

CUT  the  hare  as  for  eating,  feafon  it  with 
pepper,  fait,  and  beaten  mace,  put  it  into  a  jug 

K  4  of 


136  THE    EXPERIENCED 

or  pitcher,  with  a  clofe  top,  put  to  it  a  bundle 
of  fweet  herbs,  and  fet  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  let  it  fland  till  it  is  tender,  then  take  it 
up  and  pour  the  gravy  into  a  toffing-pan,  with 
a  glafs  of  red  wine,  one  anchovy,  a  large  onion 
ftuck  with  cloves,  a  little  beaten  mace,  and 
Chyan  pepper  to  your  tafte,  boil  it  a  little  and 
thicken  it  :  difh  up  your  hare  and  ftrain  the 
gravy  over  it,  then  fend  it  up. 

To  fiorendine  a  Hare. 

TAKE  a  grown  hare,  and  \tt  her  hang  up 
four  or  five  days,  then  cafe  her*  and  leave  on  the 
ears,  and  take  out  all  the  bones  excepi  the  head 
which  i^uft  be  left  on  whole,  lay  your  hare  flat 
on  the  table,  and  lay  over  the  infide  a  forcemeat, 
and  then  roll  it  up  to  the  head,  fkewer  it  with 
the  head  and  ears  leaning  back,  tie  it  with  pack- 
thread as  you  would  a  collar  of  veal,  wrap  it  in 
a  cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  fauce- 
pan,  with  a  cover  on  it,  with  two  quarts  of 
water  ;  when  your  liquor  is  reduced  to  one  quart 
put  in  a  pint  of  red  wine,  a  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickie,  and  one  of  catchup,  the  fame  of  brown- 
ing, and  flew  it  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint,  thicken 
it  with  butter  rolled  in  flour,  lay  round  your 
hare  a  few  morels,  and  four  llices  of  forcemeat, 
boiled  in  a  caul  of  a  leg  of  veal  :  when  you  dilh 
it  up,  draw  the  jaw-  bones,  and  (lick  them  in  the 
eyes  for  horns,  let  the  ears  lie  back  on  the  roll; 
and  flick  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in  the  mouth,  flrain 
over  your  iauce,   and  ferve  it  up:  garnifh  with 

barberries  and  parfley.— Forcemeat  for  the 

hare 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEP&R.  137 
hare  : — take  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  the  liver 
fhred  fine,  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  fcraped, 
a  glafs  of  red  wine,  one  anchovy,  two  eggs,  a 
little  winter  favory,  fweet  marjoram,  lemon 
thyme,  pepper,  fait,  and  nutmeg  to  your  tafte. 

To  hodge-podge  a  Hare. 

CUT  the  hare  in  pieces  as  you  do  far  dew- 
ing, and  put  it  into  the  pitcher,  with  two  or 
three  onions,  fome  fait  and  a  little  pepper,  a 
bunch  of  fweet  herbs  and  a  piece  of  butter: 
flop  the  pitcher  very  clof",  that  no  fleam  may 
get  out,  fet  ic  in  a  kettle  full  of  boiling  water, 
keep  the  kettle  fillei  up  as  the  water  waftes,  let 
it  flew  four  or  five  hours  at  leafl.  You  may  when 
you  tuft  put  in  the  hare  into  the  kettle  put  in 
lettuce,  cucumbers,  celery,  and  turnips  if  you 
like  it  better. 

To  Jiorendlne  Rabbits. 

TAKE  three  young  rabbits,  fkin  them,  but 
lea^e  on  the  ears,  wafh  and  dry  them  with  a 
cloih,  tacce  out  the  bones  carefully,  leaving  the 
head  whole,  then  lay  them  flat,  make  a  force- 
meat of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  bacon  fcraped, 
it  anfwers  better  than  fuet,  it  makes  the  rabbits 
eat  tenderer  and  whiter;  add  to  the  bacon  the 
crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  lemon  thyme, 
or  lemon  peel  Hired  fine,  parfley  chopped  imall, 
nutmeg,Chyan,and  fait  to  your  palate;  mix  them 
up  together  with  an  egg,  and  fpread  it  over  the 
rabbits,  roll  them  up  to  the  head,  fkewer  them 
ftraight,  and  clofe  the  ends  to  prevent  the  force- 

'  meat 


1 3*  THE   EXPERIENCED 

meat  from  coming  out,  fkewer  the  ears  back,, 
and  tie  them  in  feparate  cloths,  and  boil  tfyem 
half  an  hour;  when  you  difih  them  up  take  out 
the  jaw-bones,  and  flick  them  in  the  eyes  for 
ears,  put  round  them  forcemeat  balls  and  mufh- 
rooms,  have  ready  a  white  fauce  made  of  veal 
gravy,  a  little  anchovy,  the  juice  of  half  a  le-* 
mon,  or  a  tea  fpponful  of  lemon  pickle,  flrain 
it,  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  foas  to  make  the  fauce  pretty  thick,  keep 
llirring  it  whilft  the  flour  is  diffolving,  beat  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  put  to  it  fome  thick  cream, 
nutmeg,  and  fait,  mix  it  with  the  gravy,  and  let 
it  fimmer  a  little  over  the  fire,  but  not  boil,  for 
it  will  curdle  the  cream,  pour  it  over  the  rab*. 
bits,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Rabbits  furprifed. 

TAKE  young  rabbits,  fkewer  them,  and  put 
the  fame  pudding  as  for  the  roafted  rabbits,when 
they  are  roafted,  draw  out  the  jaw-bones  and 
Hick  them  in  the  eyes  to  appear  like  horns,  then 
take  off  all  the  meat  from  the  back  clean  from 
the  bones,  but  leave  them  whole,  chop  the  meat 
exceeding  fine  with  a  little  fhred  parfley,  lemon 
peel,  one  ounce  of  beef  marrow,  a  fpoonful  of 
good  cream,  and  a  little  fait,  beat  the  yolks  of 
two  hard  eggs,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  fize  of 
a  walnut,  in  a  marble  mortar,  very  fine,  then 
mix  all  together,  and  put  it  in  a  toffing-pan, 
when  it  has  flewed  five  minutes,  lay  it  on  the 
rabbit  when  you  take  the  meat  off,  and  put  it 
clofe  down  with  your  hand,  to  appear  like  a 

whole 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       139 

whole  rabbit,  then  heat  a  falamander,  and  brovva 
it  all  over,  pour  a  good  brown  gravy  made  as 
thick  as  cream  in  the  di(h,  Hick  a  bunch  of 
myrtle  in  their  mouths,  and  ferve  them  up  with 
their  livers  broiled  and  frothed. 

To  fricajee  Rabbits  brown. 

CUT  your  rabbits  as  for  eating,  fry  them 
in  butter  a  light  brown,  put  them  into  a  toffing- 
pan,  with  a  pint  of  water,  a  tea  fpoonful  of 
lemon  pickle,  a  large  fpoonful  of  mufhroom 
catchup,  the  fame  of  browning,  one  anchovy, 
a  ilice  of  lemon,  Chyan  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
tafte,  ftew  them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they  are 
enough,  thicken  your  gravy,  and  ftrain  it,  dilh 
yp  your  rabbits,  and  pour  the  gravy  over. 

To  fricajfee  Rabbits  white. 

CUT  your  rabbits  as  before,  and  put  them 
into  a  toffing-pan,  with  a  pint  of  veal  gravy,  a 
tea  fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  one  anchovy,  a 
Ilice  of  lemon,  a  little  beaten  mace,  Chyan  pep- 
per and  fait,  ftew  them  over  a  flow  fire,  when 
they  are  enough,  thicken  your  gravy  with  flour 
and  butter,  ftrain  it,  then  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  mixed  with  a  large  tea-cupful  of  thick 
cream,  and  a  little  nutmeg  grated  m  it,  do  not 
let  it  boil,  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  make  a  nice  Whet  before  Dinner. 
CUT  fome  flices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick, 
fry  them  in  butter,  but  not  too  hara,  then  fplit 

fome 


140  THE   EXPERIENCED 

fome  anchovies,  take  out  the  bones,  and  lay 
half  an  anchovy  on  each  piece  of  bread,  have 
ready  fome  Chefhire  cheefe  grated,  and  fome 
chopped  pariley  mixed  together,lay  it  prettythick 
over  the  bread  and  anchovy,  bafte  it  with  batter, 
and  brown  it  with  a  falamander :  it  mail  be 
done  on  the  difh  in  which  you  fend  it  to  table, 

A  fine  Harico9  by  way  of  Soup. 

GET  a  large  neck  of  mutton,  cut  it  in  two 
parts,  put  the  fcrag  part  into  a  flew-pan  with 
four  large  turnips  and  four  carrots  in  a  gallon  of 
water,  let  it  boil  gently  over  a  flow  fire  till  all 
the  goodnefs  is  out  of  the  meat,  but  not  boiled 
to  pieces,  then  bruifethe  turnips  and  two  of  the 
carrots  fine  into  the  foup,  by  way  of  thickening 
it,  cut  and  fry  fix  onions  in  nice  butter,  and 
put  them  in,  then  cut  the  other  part  of  the 
mutton  in  very  good  chops  not  too  large,  fry 
them  in  butter,  and  put  them  to  the  foup,  and 
let  it  flew  very  flow  till  the  £  hops  are  very  ten- 
der, cut  the  other  two  carrots  that  were  boiled 
into  any  {hape,  and  put  them  in  jult  before  you 
take  it  oft'  the  fire,  and  feafon  it  to  your  tafte 
with  pepper  and  fait,  and  ferve  it  up  very  hot  ia 
a  foup  difh. 

A  Harico  of  Mutton  or  Lamb. 

CUT  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton  or  lamb  in 
nice  fteaks  and  fry  them  a  light  brown,  have 
ready  fome  good  gravy  made  of  the  fcrag  of  the 
mutton,  and  fome  veal  with  a  piece  of  lean 
bacon  and  a  few  capers,  feafon  to  your  tafle 
6  with 


ENGLISH    HOUSE- KEEPER.     141 

with  pepper,  fait,  thyme,  and  onions,  which 
rnuft  be  ftrained  off  and  added  to  the  fteak^,  j  uft 
one  hour  before  you  fend  them  to  the  table; 
take  care  to  do  it  on  a  flow  fire,  di(h  them  up 
handfomely  with  turnips  and  carrots  cut  in  dice, 
with  a  good  deal  of  gravy  thickened  with  a 
piece  of  butter  rolled  in  a  very  little  flour;  if 
they  are  not  tender  they  will  not  be  good.  Send 
them  up  very  hot. 

To  Harico  a  Neck  of  Mutton  a  fecondWay. 

TAKE  a  neck  of  mutton  and  cut  it  into 
chops,  flour  them,  and  put  them  into  a  ftew- 
pan,  fet  them  over  the  fire,  and  keep  them 
turning  till  brown,  then  take  them  out  and  pat 
a  little  more  into  the  fame  pan,  and  keep  it  ftir- 
ring  till  brown  over  the  fire,  with  a  bunch  of 
fweet  herbs,  a  bay  leaf,  an  onion,  and  what 
other  fpice  you  pleafe ;  boil  them  well  together, 
and  then  ftrain  the  broth  through  a  fieve  into 
an  earthen  pan  by  itfelf,  and  fkim  the  fat  off, 
which  done,  is  a  good  gravy,  then  add  turnips 
and  carrots,  with  two  fmall  onions,  a  little 
celery,  then  place  your  mutton  in  a  ftew-pan 
with  the  celery  and  other  roots,  then  put  the 
gravy  to  them,  and  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them  :  keep  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  ready  to 
ferve  up. 

A  hodge-podge  of  Mutton. 

CUT  a  neck  or  loin  cf  mutton  into  fteaks, 
take  off  all  the  fat,  then  put   the  fteaks  into  a 
pitcher,  with  lettuce,  turnips,  carrots,  two  cu- 
cumbers 


124  THE  EXPERIENCED 

cucumbers  cut  in  quarters,  four  or  five  onions*, 
and  pepper  and  fait;  you  mud  not  put  any 
water  to  it,  and  ftop  the  pitcher  very  clofe,  then 
fet  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  let  it  boil  four 
hours,  keep  the  pan  fupplied  with  freih  boiling 
water  as  it  waftes. 

To  drefs  Cucumbers  nvith  Eggs. 

TAKE  fix  large  young  cucumbers,  pare* 
quarter,  and  cut  them  into  fquares*  about  the 
fize  of  a  dice,  put  them  into  boiling  water,  let 
them  boil  up,  and  take  them  out  of  the  water, 
and  put  them  into  a  ftew  pan,  with  an  onion 
ftuck  with  cloves,  a  good  flice  of  ham*  a  quar- 
tern of  butter,  and  a  little  fait,  fet  it  over  the 
fire  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  keep  it  clofe  covered, 
fcum  it  well,  and  (hake  it  often,  as  it  is  apt  to 
burn ;  then  dredge  in  a  little  flour  over  them,  and 
put  in  as  much  veal  gravy  as  will  juft  cover  the 
cucumbers,  and  ftir  it  well  together  and  keep  a 
gentle  fire  under  it  till  no  fcum  will  rife;  then 
take  out  the  ham  and  onion,  and  put  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  beat  up,  with  a  tea-cupful  of 
good  cream,  ftir  it  well  for  a  minute,  then  take 
it  off  the  fire,  and  juft  before  you  put  it  in  the 
difh  fqueeze  in  a  little  lemon  juice  :  have  ready- 
five  or  fix  poached  eggs  to  lay  on  the  top. 

To  Jew  Peas. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  young  peas,  wafh  them 
and  put  them  into  a  ftew-pan  with  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  butter,  three  cabbage  lettuces  cut 
fmall,  five  or  fix  young  onions,  with  a  little 

thyme. 


ENGLISH"  HOUSE-KEEPER";  14:3 
'thyme,  parfley,  pepper  and  fait,  and  let  them 
flew  all  together  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
put  to  them  a  pint  of  gravy,  with  two  or  three 
flices  of  bacon  or  ham,  and  let  them  ftew  all 
together  till  the  peas  are  enough,  then  thicken 
them  up  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
rolled  in  flour. 

STa  fricajfee  Mushrooms. 

PEEL  and  fcrape  the  infide  of  the  mufh- 
rooms,  throw  them  into  fait  and  water,  if  but- 
tons, rub  them  with  flannel,  take  them  out  and 
boil  them  with  frefh  fait  and  water,  when  they 
are  tender  put  in  a  little  fhred  parfley,  an  onion 
ftutk  with  cloves,  tofs  them  up  with  a  good 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  a  little  flour ;  you  may- 
put  in  three  fpoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  and  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg  cut  in  pieces,  but  take  care  to  take 
out  the  nutmeg  and  onion  before  you  ferve  it  to 
table:  you  may  leave  out  the  parfley,  and  ftew 
in  a  glafs  of  wine  if  you  like  it. 


CHAP.     V. 

Obfervations  on  Pies. 

RAISED  pies  fhould  have  a  quick  oven,  and 
well  clofed  up,  or  your  pie  will  fall  in  the 
fides;  it  fhould  have  no  water  put  in,  till  the 
minute  it  goes  to  the  oven,  it  makes  thecruft 


a4+  THE    EXPERIENCED 

fad,  and  is  a  great  hazard  of  the  pie  running. ~ 
Light  pafte  requires  a  moderate  oven,  but  not 
too  flow,  it  will  make  them  fad,  and  a  quick 
oven  will  catch  and  burn  it,  and  not  give  it  time 
to  rife;  tarts  that  are  iced  require  a  flow  oven, 
or  the  icing  will  be  brown,  and  the  pafte  not 
be  near  baked. — Thefe  fort  of  tarts  ou^ht  to  be 
made  of  fugar  pafte,  and  rolled  very  thin. 

To  make  crifp  Paste  for  Tarts. 
TAKE  one  pound  of  fine  flour  mixed  with 
one  ounce  of  loaf  fugar  beat  and  fifted,  make  it 
into  a  ftifT  pafte  with  a  gill  of  boiling  cream,  and 
three  ounces  of  butter  in  it,  work  it  well,  roll 
it  very  thin,  when  you  have  made  your  tarts, 
beat  the  white  of  an  egg  a  little,  rub  it  over 
them  with  a  feather,  fift  a  little  double  refined 
fugar  over  them,  arid  bake  them  in  a  moderate 
even. 

Icing  a  fecondWay. 

BEAT  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  ftrong  froth, 
put  in  by  degrees  four  ounces  of  double  refined 
fugar,  with  as  much  gum  as  will  lie  on  a  fix- 
pence,  beat  and  fifted  fine,  beat  them  half  an 
hour,  then  lay  it  over  your  tarts  the  thicknefs 
of  a  ftraw. 

To  make  a  light  Paste  for  Tarts. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  fine  flour,  beat  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  a  ftrong  froth,  mix  it  with  as 
much  water  as  will  make  three  quarters  of  a 

pound 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      145 

pound  of  floar  into  a  pretty  ftiff'pafte,  roll  it 
out  very  thin,  lay  the  third  part  of  half  a  pound 
of  butter  in  thin  pieces,  dredge  it  with  part  of 
the  quarter  of  your  flour  left  out  for  that  pur- 
pofe,  roll  it  up  tight,  then  with  your  pafte-pin 
roll  it  out  again,  do  fo  until  all  your  half  pound 
of  butter  and  flour  is  done,  cut  it  in  fquare 
pieces,  and  make  your  tarts ;  it  requires  a  quicker 
oven  than  enfp  pafte. 

To  make  an  Apple  Tart. 

SCALD  eight  or  ten  large  codlins,  when 
cold  fkin  them,  take  the  pulp  and  beat  it  as  fine 
as  you  can  with  a  iilver  fpoon,  then  mix  the 
yolks  of  fix  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four,  beat 
all  together  as  fine  as  poffible,  put  in  grated  nut- 
meg and  fugar  to  your  tafte,  melt  fome  fine 
frefh  butter,  and  beat  it  till  it  is  like  a  fine  thick 
cream,  then  make  a  fine  puff*  pafte,  and  cover 
a  tin  petty-pan  with  it,  and  pour  in  the  ingre- 
dients, but  do  not  cover  it  with  the  pafte;  bake 
it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  flip  it  out  of  the 
petty-pan  on  a  dilh,  and  drew  fine  fugar  finely 
beat  and  fifted  all  over  it. 

To  make.  Paste  for  a  Goose  Pye. 

TAKE  eighteen  pounds  of  fine  flour,  put  fix 
pounds  of  frefh  butter,  and  one  pound  of  ren- 
dered beef  fuet  in  a  kettle  of  water,  boil  it  two 
or  three  minutes,  then  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon 
your  flour,  work  it  well  into  a  pretty  ft  iff  pafte, 
pull  it  in  lumps  to  cool,  and  raiie  your  pye,  bake 

L  it 


146  THE   EXPERIENCED 

it  in  a  hot  oven ;  you  may  make  any  raifed  pie 
the  fame  way,  only  take  a  fmaller  quantity  in 
proportion. 

To  make  a  cold  Paste  for  Di$h  Pies, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  rub  it  into  half 
a  pound  of  butter,  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
put  them  into  as  much  water  as  will  make  it 
a  ftlff  pafte,  roll  it  out,  then  put  your  butter  on 
in  thin  pieces,  duft  it  with  flour,  roll  it  up 
tight,  when  you  have  done  it  fo  for  three  times, 
roll  it  out  pretty  thin,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick 
oven. 

To  make  Paste  for  Custards. 

PUT  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  pan  of  wa- 
ter, take  two  pounds  of  flour,  when  your  but- 
ter boils,  pour  it  on  your  flour,  with  as  much 
water  as  will  make  it  into  a  good  pafte,  work  it 
well,  and  when  it  has  cooled  a  little  raife  your 
cuftards,  put  a  paper  round  the  infide  of  them* 
when  they  are  half  baked  fill  them. — When  you 
make  any  kind  of  dripping  pafte,  boil  it  four  or 
five  minutes  in  a  good  quantity  of  water  to  take 
the  ftrength  off  it  -,  when  you  make  a  cold  cruft 
with  fuet,  fhred  it  fine,  pour  part  of  it  into  the 
flour,  then  make  it  into  a  pafte,  and  roll  it 
out  as  before  (only  ftrew  in  it  fuet  inftead  af 
butter). 


To  make  a  Fkench  Pye. 

TO  twc 

of 


TO  two  pounds  of  flour  put  three  quarter* 
*  a  pound  of  butter,  make  it  into  a  pafte,  and 

raife 


ENGLISH   HOUSEKEEPER.     147 

tzife  the  walls  of  the  pye,  then  roll  out  fome 
paite  thin  as  for  a  lid,  cut  it  into  vine  leaves,  or 
the  figures  of  any  moulds  you  have*  if  you  have 
no  moulds,  you  may  make  life  of  a  crocran,  and 
pick  out  pretty  ihapes,  beat  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  rub  the  outiide  of  the  walls  of  the  pye 
with  it,  and  lay  the  wine  leaves  or  (h^pes  round 
the  walls,  and  rub  them  over  with  the  eggs,  fill 
the  pye  with  the  bones  of  the  meat,  to  keep  the 
fleam  in,  that  the  cruft  may  be  well  foaked  ;  it 
is  to  go  to  t  ble  without  a  lid. 

Take  a  calf's  head,  waih  and  clean  it  well, 
boil  it  half  an  hour,  when  it  is  cold  cut  it  in 
thin  dices,  and  put  it  in  a  toflmg-pan  with  three 
pints  of  veal  gravy,  and  three  fweet-breads  cut 
thin,  and  let  it  ftew  one  hour,  with  hfalr  an 
ounce  of  morels,  and  half  an  ounce  of  truffles, 
then  have  ready  two  calves  feet  boiled  and  boned, 
cut  them  in  fmall  pieces,  and  put  them  into 
your  tofiing-pan,  -  with  a  fpoonful  of  lemon 
pickle  and  one  of.  browning,  Chyan  pepper, 
and  a  little  fait,  when  the  meat  is  tender  thicken 
the  gravy  a  little  with  flour  and  butter,  ftrain  it, 
and  put  in  a  few  pickled  muihrooins,  but  freffi 
ones  if  you  can  get  them$  put  the  meat  into  the 
pye  you  took  the  bones  out,  and  lay  the  niceii 
part  at  the  top,  have  ready  a  quarter  of  an  hun- 
dred of  afparagus  head's,  drew  them  over  the  top 
of  the  pye  and  ferve  it  up. 


L  %  A 


148         THE  EXPERIENCED 

ATorkJJoire  Goose  Pye. 

TAKE  a  large  fat  goofe,  fplit  it  down  the 
back,  and  take  all  the  bones  out,  bone  a  turkey 
and  two  ducks  the  fame  way,  fesfon  them  very 
well  with  pepper  and  fait,  with  fix  woodcocks, 
lay  the  goofe  down  on  a  clean  dfim,  with  the 
fkin-fide  down,  and  lay  the  turkey  into  the 
goofe  with  the  ikin  down,  have  ready  a  large 
hare  cleaned  well,  cut  in  pieces,  and  flewed  in 
the  oven,  with  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  of  mace  beat  tine,  the  fame  of  white 
pepper,  and  fait  to  your  tafte,  till  the  meat  will 
leave  the  bones,  and  fcum  the  butter  off  the 
gravy,  pick  the  meat  clean  off,  and  beat  it  in  a 
marble  mortar  very  fine,with  the  butter  you  took 
off,  and  lay  it  in  the  turkey;  take  twenty-four 
pounds  of  the  fineft  flour,  fix  pounds  of  butter, 
half  a  pound  of  frefh  rendered  fuet,  make  the 
pafte  pretty  thick,  and  raife  the  pye  oval,  roll  out 
a  lump  of  pafte,  and  cut  it  in  vine  leaves,  or  what 
form  you  pleafe,  rub  the  pye  with  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  put  your  ornaments  on  the  walls, 
then  turn  the  hare,  turkey,  and  goofe  upfide- 
down,  and  lay  them  in  your  pye,  with  the  ducks 
at  each  cr\dP  and  the  woodcocks  on  the  fides, 
make  your  lid  pretty  thick  and  put  it  on  ;  you 
may  lay  flowers,  or  the  fhape  of  the  fowls  in 
pafte,  on  the  lid,  and  make  a  hole  in  the  mid- 
dle of  your  lid  5  the  walls  of  the  pye  are  to  be 
one  inch  and  a  half  higher  than  the  lid,  then 
rub  it  all  over  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  bind 
it  round  with  three  fold  paper,  and  lay  the  fame 
l  over 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      149 

over  the  top;  it  will  take  four  hours  baking  in 
a  brown  bread  oven,  when  it  comes  out,  melt 
two  pounds  of  butter  in  the  gravy  that  comes 
from  the  hare, and  pour  it  hot  in  the  pye  through 
a  tun-difh,  ciofe  it  well  up,  and  let  it  be  eight 
or  ten  days  before  you  cut  it ;  if  you  fend  it  any 
diftance,  make  up  the  hole  in  the  middle  with 
cold  butter  to  prevent  the  air  from  getting  in. 

A  Hare  Pye. 

CUT  a  large  hair  in  pieces,  fcafon  it  well 
with  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  put  it  in 
a  jug  with  half  a  pound  of  butter,  cover  it  clofe 
up  with  a  parte  or  cloth,  fet  it  in.  a  copper  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  flew  one  hour  and  a 
half,  then  take  it  out  to  cool,  and  make  a  rich 
forcemeat  of  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fcraped 
bacon,  two  onions,  a  glafs  of  red  wine,  the 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  little  winter  favqry, 
the  liver  cut  fmail,  a  little  nutmeg,  feafon  it 
high  with  pepper  and  fait,  mix  it  well  up  with 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  raife  the  pye  and  lay 
the  forcemeat  in  the  bottom,  lay  in  the  hare, 
with  the  gravy  that  came  out  of  the  hare,  lay 
the  lid  on,  and  put  flowers  or  leaves  on  it ;  it 
will  take  an  hour  and  a  half  to  bake  it. — It  is 
a  handfome  fide  difli  for  a  large  table, 

A  Salmon  Pye. 

BOIL  your  falmon  as  for  eating,  take  off  the 
flun,  and  all  the  bones  out  and  pound  the  meat 
in  a  mortar  very  fine,  with  mace,  nutmeg,  pep- 
per, and  fait  to  your  tafte,  raife  the  pye,  and  put 
flowers  or  leaves  on  the  walls,  put  the  falmon  in 

L  3  and 


150  THE   EXPERIENCED 

and  lid  it,  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  when  it 
comes  out  of  the  oven  take  off  the  lid,  and  put 
in  four  ounces  of  rich  melted  butter,  cut  a  lemon 
in  ilices,  and  lay  over  it,  Hick  in  two  or  three 
leaves  of  fennel,  and  fend  it  to  table  without  a 


lid, 


A  Beef  Steak  Pye. 

BEAT  five  or  fix  rump  (leaks  very  well  with 
a  pafte  pin,  and  feafon  them  well  with  pepper 
and  fait,  lay  a  good  puff  pafte  round  the  dim, 
and  put  a  little  water  in  the  bottom,  then  lay 
the  (leaks  in,  with  a  lump  of  butter  upon  every 
{leak,  and  put  on  the  lid,  cut  a  little  pafte  in 
what  form  you  pleafe,  and  lay  it  on. 

./f  Thatched  House  Pye, 

TAKE  an  earthen  dim  that  is  pretty  deep* 
rub  the  infide  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  then 
fpread  ever  it  two  ounces  of  vermicelli,  make  a 
good  puff  parte,  and  roll  it  pretty  thick,  and  lay 
it  on  the  dilh ;  take  three  or  four  pigeons,  feafon 
them  very  well  with  pepper  and  fait,  and  put  a 
good  lump  of  butter  in  them,  and  lay  them  in 
the  dim  with  the  breaft  down,  and  put  a  thick 
lid  over  them,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven; 
when  enough  take  the  difli  you  intend  for  it, 
and  turn  the  pye  on  to  it,  and  the  vermicelli  will 
appear  like  thatch,  which  gives  it  the  name  of 

thatched  houfe  pye. It  is  a  pretty  fide  or 

corner  dim^for  a  large  dinner,  or  a  bottom  for 
(upper. 

Egg 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       151 

Egg<3WBacon  Pye  to  eat  cold: 

STEEP  a  few  thin  dices  of  bacon  all  night 
in  water  to  take  out  the  fait,  lay  your  bacon  in 
the  dim,  beat  eight  eggs,  with  a  pint  of  thick 
cream,  put  in  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  and  pour 
it  on  the  bacon,  lay  over  it  a  good  cold  pafte, 
bake  rt  a  day  before  you  want  it  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

^Calf's  Head  Pye. 

PARBOIL  a  calf's  head,  when  cold  cut  it  in 
pieces,  feafon  it  well  with  pepper  and  fait,  put 
it  in  a  raifed  cruft,  with  half  a  pint  of  ftrong 
gravy,  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  when  it  comes 
gut  of  the  oven,  cut  off  the  lid,  and  chop  the 
yolks  of  three  hard  eggs  fmall,  ftrew  them  over 
the  top  of  the  pye,  and  lay  three  or  four  flices  of 
lemon,  and  pour  on  fome  good  melted  butter, 
and  fend  it  to  the  table  without  a  lid. 

Afovoury  Chicken  Pye. 

LET  your  chickens  be  fmall,  feafon  them 
with  mace,  pepper,  and  fait,  put  a  lump  of  but- 
ter into  every  one  of  them,  lay  them  in  the  difh 
with  the  breads  up,  and  lay  a  thin  flice  of  bacon 
over  them,  it  will  give  them  a  pleafant  flavour, 
then  put  in  a  pint  of  ftrong  gravyr  and  make  a 
good  puff  pafte,  lid  it  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  :  French  cooks  generally  put  morels  and 
yolks  of  eggs  chcpped  fmall. 


IJ2  THE    EXPERIENCED 

A  Mince  Pye. 

BOIL  a  neat's  tongue  two  hours,  then  l$un 
it,  and  chop  it  as  fmall  as  poffible,  chop  very 
fmall    three  pounds  of  frefh  beef  fuet,    three 
pounds  of  good  baking  apples,  four  pounds  of 
currants  clean  waihed,  picked,  and  well  dried 
before  the  fire,  one  pound  of  jar  raifins  ftoned, 
and  chopped  fmall,  and  one  pound  of  powder 
fugar,    mix   them   all  together    with  half   an 
ounce  of  mace,   the    fame   of  nutmeg  grated, 
cloves  and  cinnamon  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
each,  and  one  pint  of  French  Brandy,  and  make 
a  rich  puff  paile;  as  you  fill  the  pye  up,  put  in 
a  little  candied  citron  and  orange  cut  in  little 
pieces*  what  you  have  to  fparej  put  clofe  down 
in  a  pot  and  cover  it  up,  put  no  citron  or  orange 
in  till -you  ufe  it. 

To  make  a  Mince  Pye  without  Meat. 

CHOP  fine  three  pounds  of  fuet,  and  three 
pounds  of  apples,  when  pared  and  cored,  wafh 
and  dry  three  pounds  of  currants,  ftone  and  chop 
one  pound  of  jar  raiiins,  beat  and  fift  one  pound 
and  a  half  of  loaf  fugar,  cut  fmall  twelve  ounces 
of  candied  orange  peel,  and  fix  ounces  of  citron, 
mix  all  well  together  with  a  "quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  nutmeg,  half  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cin- 
namon, fix  or  eight  cloves,  and  half  a  pint  of 
French  brandy,  pot  it  clofe  up,  and  keep  it  for 
ufe. 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     153 

A  Codling  Pvf. 

GATHER  fmall  codlings,  put  them  in  a  clean 
brafs  pan  with  ipring  water,  lay  vine  leaves  on 
them,  and  cover  them  with  a  cloth  wrapped 
round  the  cover  of  a  pan  to  keep  in  the  fteam, 
when  they  grow  foftifh  peel  off  the  fkin,  and 
put  them  in  the  fame  water  with  the  vine  leaves, 
hang  them  a  great  height  over  the  fire  to  green, 
when  you  fee  them  a  fine  green,  take  them  out 
of  the  water  and  put  them  in  a  deepdifh,  with 
as  much  powder  or  loaf  fugar  as  will  fweeten 
them,  make  the  lid  of  rich  puff  pafte,  and  bake 
it ;  when  it  comes  from  the  oven  take  off  the 
lid,  and  cut  it  in  little  pieces  like  fippets,  and 
ftick  them  round  the  iniide  of  the  pye  with  the 
points  upward,   pour  over  your  codlings  a  good 

cuftard    made  thus. Boil   a  pint  of  cream, 

with  a  ftick  of  cinnamon,  and  fugar  enough  to 
make  it  a  little  fweet,  let  it  ftand  till  cold,  then 
put  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  fet  it 
on  the  fire  and  keep  itirring  it  till  it  grows  thick, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil,  left  it  curdle,  then  pour  it 
into  your  pye,  pare  a  little  lemon  thin,  cut  the 
peel  like  ft'raws,  and  lay  it  on  your  codlings  over 
the  top. 

An  Herb  ^ye  for  Lent. 

TAKE  lettuce,  leeks,  fpinnage,  beets,  and 
parfley,  of  each  a  handful,  give  them  a  boil,  then 
chop  them  fmall,  and  have  ready  boiled  in  a  cloth 
one  quart  of  groats,  with  two  or  three  onions  in 
them,  put  them  in  a  fiying-pan  with  the  herbs 

and 


*54  THE  EXPERIENCED 

and  a  good  deal  of  fait,  a  pound  of  butter,  and 
a  few  apples  cut  thin,  flew  them  a  few  minutes 
over  the  fire,  fill  you  difh  or  raifed  cruft  with  it ; 
one  hour  will  bake  it ;  then  ferve  it  up, 

A  Venison  Pasty. 

BONE  a  breaft  or  fhoulder  of  venifon,  feafon 
It  well  with  mace,  pepper,  and  fait,  lay  it  in  a 
deep  pot  with  the  beft  part  of  a  neck  of  mutton, 
cut  in  Dices,  and  laid  over  the  venifon,  pour  in  a 
large  glafs  of  red  wine,  put  a  coarfepafte  over  it 
and  bake  it  two  hours  in  an  oven,  then  lay  the 
venifon  in  a  difh,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and 
put  one  pound  of  butter  over  it ;  make  a  good 
puff  pafte,  and  lay  it  near  half  an  inch  thick, 
round  the  edge  of  the  difh,  roll  out  the  lid,  which 
muft  be  a  little  thicker  than  the  pafte  on  the  edge 
of  the  difh,  and  lay  it  on,  then  roll  out  another 
lid  pretty  thin,  and  cut  in  flowers,  leaves,  or 
whatever  form  you  pleafe,  and  lay  it  on  the  lid  ; 
if  you  do  not  want  it,  it  will  keep  in  the  pot  that 
it  was  baked  in  eight  or  ten  days,  but  keep  the 
cruft  on  to  prevent  the  air  from  getting  intoit. — 
A  breaft  and  fhoulder  of  venifon  is  the  mod 
proper  for  a  pafty. 

An  Hottentot  Pye: 

BOIL  and  bone  two  calf's  feet,  clean  very 
well  a  calf's  chitterling,  boil  it  and  chop  it  fmall, 
take  two  chickens  and  cut  them  up  as  for  eat- 
ing, put  them  in  a  ftew-pan,  with  two  fweet- 
breads,  a  quart  of  veal  or  mutton  gravy,  half  an 
ounce  of  morels,  Chyan  pepper  and  fait  to  your 

palate, 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER,     155 

palate,  flew  them  all  together  an  hour  over  a 
gentle  fire,  then  put  in  fix  forcemeat  balls  that 
have  been  boiled,  and  the  yolks  of  four  hard 
eggs,  and  put  them  in  a  good  raifed  cruft  that 
has  been  baked  for  it,  ftrew  over  the  top  of 
your  pye  a  few  green  peas  boiled  as  for  eating  ; 
or  peel  and  cut  fome  young  green  brocoli  (talks 
about  the  fize  of  peas,  give  them  a  gentle  boil, 
and  ftrew  them  over  the  top  of  your  pye,  and 
fend  it  up  hot  without  a  lid,  the  fame  way  as  the 
French  pye. 

A  Bride's  Pye. 

BOIL  two  calf's  feet,  pick  the  meat  from 
the  bones,  and  chop  it  very  fine,  fhred  final  1  one 
pound  of  beef  fuet,  and  a  pound  of  apples,  waih 
and  pick  one  pound  of  currants  very  fmall,  dry 
them  before  the  fire,  ftone  and  chop  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  jar  raifins,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
cinnamon,  the  fame  of  mace  and  nutmeg,  two 
ounces  of  candied  citron,  two  ounces  of  candied 
lemon  cut  thin,  a  glafs  of  brandy  and  one  of 
champagne,  put  them  in  a  China  difh  with  a  rich 
puffpafte  over  it,  roll  another  lid  and  cut  it  in 
leaves,  flowers,  figures,  and  put  a  glafs  ring  in 
it. 

An  Eel  Pye, 

SKIN  and  wafh  your  eels  very  clean,  cut 
them  in  pieces  one  inch  and  a  half  long,  feafon 
them  with  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little  dried  fage 
rubbed  fmall,  raife  your  pies  about  the  fize  of 
the  infide  of  a  plate,  fill  your  pies  with  eels, 

lay 


156        THETEXPERIENCED 

lay  a  lid  over  them,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick 
oven  :  they  require  to  be  well  baked. 

^o  make  a  Lobster  Pye. 

TAKE  two  or  three  good  frefh  lobfters,  take 
out  all  the  meat  and  cut  It  in  large  pieces,  put 
a  fine  putt  pafte  round  the  edge  of  your  difh, 
then  put  in  a  layer  of  lobfters,  and  a  layer  of 
oy iters,  with  bread  crumbs  and  flices  of  but- 
ter, a  little  pepper  and  fait,  f  \en  a  layer  of  ieb- 
fters,  Sec.  till  yourjdifti  is  full,  then  take  the  red 
part  of  the  lobfter,  pound  it  fine  with  chopped 
oyfters,  crumbs  of  bread,  and  a  little  butter; 
make  them  into  fmall  balls  and  fry  them,  then 
lay  them  upon  the  top  of  your  pye ;  boil  the 
fheils  of  your  oyfters  to  make  a  little  gravy,  put 
to  it  a  little  pepper  and  fait  and  the  oyfter  liquor, 
ftrain  it  through  a  fieve,  and  fill  your  pye  with 
it,  then  lay  on  your  cruft,  and  flick  a  few  fmall 
claws  in  the  middle  of  your  pye,  and  ftnd  it  to 
the  oven. — It  is  a  genteel  corner  di(h  for  dinner. 

ATorkJlnre  Giblet   Pye. 

WHILST  the  blood  of  your  goofe  is  warm, 
put  in  a  teacup-ful  of  groats  tofwell,  grate  the 
crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  and  pour  a  gill  of  boil- 
ing milk  on  them,  fhred  half  a  pound  of  beef 
fuet  very  fine,  chop  two  leaks,  and  four  or  five 
leaves  of  fage  fmall,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper, 
fait,  and  nutmeg  to  your  palate,  mix  them  all  up 
together,  have  ready  the  giblets  feafoned  very 
well  with  pepper  and  fait/  and  lay  them  round 
a  deep  difh,  then  put  a  pound  of  fat  beef  over 

the 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     157 

the  pudding  in  the  middle  of  the  dim,  pour  in 
half  a  pint  of  gravy,  lay  on  a  good  paiie,  and 
bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven, 

A  Rook  Pye. 

SKIN  and  draw  fix  young  rooks,  and  cut  out 
the  back  bones,  feafon  them  well  with  pepper 
and  fait,  put  them  in  a  deep  diih  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  water,  layover  them  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  make  a  good  puff  pafte,  and  cover 
the  diih,  lay  a  paper  over,  for  it  requires  a  good 
deal  of  baking. 

A  fweet  Veal  Pye. 

LAY  marrow  or  beef  fuet  fhred  very  fine  in 
the  bottom  of  your  dim,  cut  into  fceaks  the  heft 
end  of  a  neck  of  veal,  and  lay  them  in,  flrew  over 
them  fome  marrow  or  fuet,  it  makes  ihem  eat 
tenderer,  ftonc  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  jar  railing, 
chop  them  a  little,  warn  half  a  pound  of  currants 
and  put  tbem  over  the  fteaks,  cut  three  ounces 
of  candied  citron,  and  two  ounces  of  candied 
orange,  and  lay  them  on  the  top,  boil  half  a  pint 
of  fweet  mountain  or  fack,  with  a  (lick  of  cin- 
namon, and  pour  it  in,  lay-a  light  pafte  round 
the  dim,  and  then  lid  it,  an  hour  will  bake  it ; 
when  it  comes  out  o*f  the  oven,  put  in  a  glafs  of 
French  brandy  or  fhrub,  and  ferve  it  up. 

An  Olive  Pye. 

CUT  a  fillet  of  veal  in  thin  flices,  rub  them 
over  with  yolks  of  eggs>  ftrew  over  them  a  few 

crumbs 


i58  THE   EXPERIENCED 

crumbs  of  bread,  fhred  a  little  lemon  peel  very 
fine,  and  put  it  on  them  with  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, pepper,  and  fait,  roll  them  up  very  tight, 
and  lay  them  in  a  pewter  difh,  pour  over  them 
half  a  pint  of  good  gravy  made  of  bones,  put  half 
a  pound  of  butter  over  it,  make  a  light  paite,  and 
lay  it  round  the  difh,  roll  the  lid  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  lay  it  on,'  Make  a  beef  olive  pye 
the  lame  way. 

A  favour y  Veal  Pye. 

CUT  a  loin  of  veal  into  (leaks,  feafon  it  with 
beaten  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  lay  the 
meat  in  your  difh  with  fweet- breads  feafoned 
with  the  meat,  and  the  yolks  of  fix  hard  eggs,  a 
pint  of  oyflers,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  lay 
round  your  difh  a  good  puffpafte,  half  an  inch 
thick,  and  cover  it  with  a  lid  the  fame  thicknefs, 
bake  it  in  a  quick  oven  an  hour  and  a  quarter; 
when  you  take  it  out  of  the  oven,  cut  off  the 
lid,  then  cut  the  lid  in  eight  or  ten  pieces,  and 
flick  it  round  the  infide  of  the  rim,  cover  the 
meat  with  flices' of  lemon,"  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  make  favoury  Patties. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  the  infide  of  a  cold  loin 
of  veal,  or  the  fame  quantity  of  cold  fowl,  that 
have  been  either  boiled  or  roalted,  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  beef  fuel,,  chop  them  as  fmall  as  pof- 
fible,  with  fix  or  eight  fprigs  of  parfley,  feafon 
them  well  with  halt  a  nutmeg  grated  fine,  pep- 
per and  fait,  put  them  in  a  toiling  pan,  with  half 
a  pint  of  veal  gravy,   thicken* the  gravy  with  a 

little 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  j59 
little  flour  and  butter,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of 
cream,  and  (hake  them  over  the  fire  two  minutes, 

and  fill  your  patties. You  rauft   make  your 

patties  thus :  Raife  them  of  an  oval  form.,  and 
bake  them  as  for  cuftards,  cut  fome  long  nar- 
row bits  of  parte,  and  bake  them  on  a  during 
box,  but  not  to  go  round,  they  are  for  handles; 
fill  your  patties  when  quite  hot  with  the  meat, 
then  fet  your  handles  a-crofs  the  patties ;  they 
will  look  like  bafkets  if  you  have  nicely  pinched 
the  walls  of  the  patties,  when  you  railed  them; 
five  will  be  a  dim,  you  may  make  them  with 
fugar  and  currants  inrtead  of  parfley. 

Pried Tatties. 

CUT  half  a  pound  of  a  leg  of  veal  very  fmall, 
with  fix  oyfters,  put  the  liquor  of  the  oyrters 
to  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  mix  them  to- 
gether with  a  little  fait,  put  it  in  a  toffing-pan, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  keep 
ftirring  it  for  three  or  four  minutes  over  the  fire, 
then  make  a  good  puff  parte,  roll  it  out,  and 
cut  it  in  little  bits  about  the  fize  of  a  crown 
piece,  fome  round,  fquare,  and  three-cornered, 
put  a  little  of  the  meaj;  upon  them,  and  lay  a  lid 
on  them,  turn  up  the  edges  as  you  would  a  party, 
to  keep  the  gravy  in,  fry  them  in  a  pan  full,  of 
hog's  lard;  they  are  a  pretty  corner  difh  for  din- 
ner or  fupper:  if  you  want  them  for  garnidi  to 
a  cod's  head,  put  in  only  oyfters  ;  they  are  very 
pretty  for  a  calf's,  head  hafh* 


Sweet 


i6o  THE    EXPERIENCED 

Sweet  Patties. 

TAKE  the  meat  of  a  boiled  calf's  foot,  two 
large  apples,  and  one  ounce  of  candied  orange, 
chop  them  very  imall,  grate  half  a  nutmeg,  mix 
them  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  a  fpoonful  of 
French  brandy,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
currants  clean  wafhed  and  dried,  *make  a  good 
pufr  pafte,  roll  it  in  different  fhapes,  as  the  fried 
ones,  and  fill   them  ti^Tame   way ;  you  may 

cither  bake  or  fry  them. They  are  a  pretty 

fide  difli  for  fupper. 

Common  Patties. 

TAKE  the  kidney  part  of  a  very  fat  loin  of 
veal,  chop  the  kidney,  veal,  and  fat  very  fmall 
all  together,  feafcn  it  with  mace,  pepper,  and 
fait,  to  your  tafte,  raife  little  patties  the  iize  of 
a  tea-cup,  fill  them  with  your  meat,  put  thin 
lids  en  them,  bake  them  very  crifp,  five  is 
enough  for  a  fide  difh. 

To  make  fine  Patties. 

SLICE  either  turkey,  houfe  lamb,  or  chicken, 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  the  fat  of  lamb,  loin 
of  veal,  or  the  inlide  of  a  furloin  of  beef,  a  little 
parfley,  thyme,  and  lemon-peel  (hred,  put  it  all 
in  a  marble  mortar,  and  pound  it  very  fine,  fea- 
fon  it  with  white  pepper  and  fait,  then  make  a 
fine  puff  parte,  roll  it  out  in  thin  fquare  fheets, 
put  the  forcemeat  in  the  middle,  cover  it  over, 
clofe  them  all  round,  and  cut  the  pafte  even.  Juft 

before 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      161 

before  they  go  into  the  oven  warn  them  over 
with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  bake  them  twenty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven  ;  have  ready  a  little 
white  gravy  feafoned  with  pepper,  fait,  and  a 
little  fhalot,  thickened  up  with  a  little  cream  or 
butter;  as  foon  as  the  patties  come  out  of  the 
oven,  make  a  hole  in  the  top  and  pour  in  fome 
gravy,  you  muft  take  care  not  to  put  too  much 
gravy  in,  for  fear  of  its  running  out  at  the  fides, 
and  fpoiling  the  patties. 

To  make  common  Fritters. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  ale  and  two  eggs,  beat 
in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  it  rather  thicker 
than  a  common  pudding,  with  nutmeg  and 
fugar  to  your  -tafte,  let  it  ftand  three  or  four 
minutes  to  rife,  then  drop  them  with  a  fpoon  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  lard,  fry  them  a  light  brown, 
drain  them  on  afieve,  ferve  them  up  with  fugar 
grated  over  them,  and  wine  fauce  in  a  boat. 

TomateAvvLE  Fritters. 

PARE  thelargeft  baking  apples  you  can  get, 
take  out  the  core  with  an  apple  fcraper,  cut  them 
in  round  flices,  and  dip  them  in  batter,  made  as 
for  common  fritters,  fry  them  crifp,  ferve  them 
jap  with  fugar  grated  over  them,  and  wine  fauce 
in  a  boat.— They  are  proper  for  a  fide  difh  for 
fupper. 

,    To  make  Clary  Fritters. 
BEAT  two    eggs  exceeding  well  with  one 
ipoonful   of  cream,  one  of  ratifia  water,  one 

M  ounce 


i6z  THE  EXPERIENCED 

ounce  of  loaf  fugar,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of  floury 
grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  have  ready  wafhed  and 
dried  clary  leaves,  dip  them  in  the  batter  and 
fry  them  a  nice  brown ;  ferve  them  up  with 
quarters  of  Seville  oranges,  laid  round  them, 
and  good  melted  butter  in  a  boat, 

To  make  Rasberry  Fritters. 

GRATE  two  Naples  bifcuits,  pour  over  them 
half  a  gill  of  boiling  cream,  when  it  is  almoft 
cold,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  to  a  ftrong 
froth,  beat  the  bifcuits  a  little,  then  beat  both 
together  exceeding  well,  put  to  it  two  ounces 
of  fugar,  and  as  much  juice  of  rafpberry  as  will 
make  it  a  pretty  pink  colour,  and  give  it  a  pro- 
per fharpnefs,  drop  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling 
lard,  the  fizeof  a  walnut  5  when  you  diih  them 
up,  ftick  bits  of  citron  in  fome,  and  blanched 
almonds  cut  lengthways  in  others  -,  lay  round 
them  green  and  yellow  fweetmeats  and  ferve 
them  up.  They  are  a  pretty  corner  diih  for 
either  dinner  or  fupper. 

"To  make  a  Tan sey  Fritter. 

TAKE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  pour  on 
it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  let  it  ftand  an 
hour,  then  put  in  as  much  juice  of  tanfey  as  will 
give  it  a  flavour,  but  not  to  make  it  bitter,  then 
make  it  a  pretty  green  with  the  juice  of  fpinage, 
put  to  it  a  fpoonful  of  ratafia  water,  or  brandy, 
fweeten  it  to  your  tafte,  grate  the  rind  of  half  a 
lemon*  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  mix  them 
all  together,  put  them  in  a  tofling-pan  with  four 
2  ounces 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       163 

ounces  of  butter,  ilk  it  over  a  flow  fire  till  it  is 
quite  thick,  take  it  off,  and  let  it  ftand  two  or 
three  hours,  then  drop  them  into  a  pan  full  of 
boiling  lard,  a  fpoonful  is  enough  for  a  fritter, 
ferve  them  up  with  flices  of  orange  round  them, 
grate  ftrgar  over  them,  and  wine  fauce  in  a  boat. 

To  make  Plumb  Fritters  with  Rice. 

GRATE  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  pour 
over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  or  good  milk, 
let  it  ftand  four  or  five  hours,  then  beat  it  ex* 
ceeding  fine,  put  to  it  the  yolks  of  five  eggs, 
four  ounces  of  fugar,  and  a  nutmeg  grated  $  beat 
them  well  together,  and  fry  them  in  hog's  lard; 
drain  them  on  a  fieve,  and  ferve  them  up  with 
white  wine  fauce  under  them. 

N.  B.  You  aiay  put  currants  in  if  you  pleafe, 

To  make  W^ater  Fritters. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  water,  five  or  fix  fpoonfuls 
of  flour  (the  batter  mud  be  very  thick)  and  a 
little  fait ;  mix  all  thefe  together,  and  beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  eight  eggs  with  a  little 
brandy,  then  ftrain  them  through  a  hair  fieve, 
and  put  them  to  the  other  things  -5  the  longer 
they  ftand  before  you  fry  them  the  better.  Juft 
before  you  fry  them,  melt  about  half  a  pound 
of  butter  very  thick,  and  beat  it  well  in  ;  you 
muft  not  turn  them,  and  take  care  not  to  burn 
them  :  the  beft  thing  to  fry  them  in  is  fine  lard. 


M  z  To 


1 64  THE   EXPERIENCED 


To  make  French  Bancees. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  water,  a  bit  of  lemon 
peel,  a  bit  of  butter  the  bignefs  of  a  walnut,  a 
little  orange-flower  water;  let  thefe  boil  three 
or  four  minutes  ;  then  take  out  the  lemon  peel, 
and  add  to  it  a  pint  of  flour,  keep  the  water 
boiling  and  ftirring  all  the  while  till  it  is  ftifF, 
then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  put  in  fix  eggs, 
leaving  out  the  whites  of  three ;  beat  thefe  well 
for  about  half  an  hour,  till  they  come  to  a  ftiff 
pafte,  drop  them  into  a  pan  of  boiling  lard  with 
a  tea-fpoon ;  if  they  are  of  a  right  lightnefs  they 
will  be  very  nice;  keep  fhaking  the  pan  all  the 
time  till  they  are  of  a  light  brown.  A  large 
difh  will  take  fix  or  (even  minutes  boiling; 
when  done  enough,  put  them  into  a  difh  that 
will  drain  them,  fet  them  by  the  fire,  and  ftrew 
fine  fugar  over  them. 

To  make  German  Puffs. 

PUT  half  a  pint  of  good  milk  into  a  tofiing- 
pan,  and  dredge  it  in  flour  till  it  is  thick  as  hafty- 
pudding,  keep  ftirring  it"  over  a  flow  fire  till  it  is 
all  of  a  lump,  then  put  it  in  a  marble  mortar; 
when  it  is  cold  put  to  it  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs, 
four  ounces  of  fugar,  a  fpoonful  of  role  water, 
grate  a  little  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  half  a  le- 
mon, beat  them  together  an  hour  or  more,  when 
it  l()oks  light  and  bright,  drop  them  into  a  pan 
of  boiling  lard  with  a  tea-fpoon,  the  fize  of  a 
large  nutmeg,  they  will  rife  and  look  like  a  large 

yellow 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.     165 

yellow  plumb  if  they  are  well  beat :  as  you  fry 
them,  lay  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  grate  fugar 
round  your  difh,  and  ferve  them  up  with  fack 
for  fauce. — It  is  a  proper  corner  difh  for  dinner, 
or  fupper. 

T'o  make  Gofers. 

BEAT  three  eggs  well,  with  three  fpoonfuls 
of  flour  and  a  little  fait,  then  mix  them  with  a 
pint  of  milk,  an  ounce  of  fugar,  and  half  a  nut- 
meg grated,  beat  them  well  together,  then  make 
your  gofer  tongs  hot,  rub  them  with  frefh  but- 
ter, fill  the  bottom  part  of  your  tongs,  and  clap 
the  top  up,  then  turn  them,  and  when  a  fine 
brown  on  both  iides,  put  them  in  a  difh,  and 
pour  white  wine  fauce  over  them,  five  is  enough 
for  a  difh,  do  not  lay  them  one  upon  another,  it 
will  make  them  foft.— rYou  may  put  in  currants 
if  you  pleafe. 

To  make  Wafer  Pancakes, 

BEAT  four  eggs  well  with  two  fpoonfuls  of 
fine  flour,  and  two  of  cream,  one  ounce  of  loaf 
fugar,  beat  and  fifted,  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
put  a  little  cold  butter  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  rub 
your  pan  well  with  it,  pour  in  your  batter  and 
make  it  as  thin  as  a  wafer,  fry  it  only  on  one 
iide,  put  them  on  a  difh,  and  grate  fugar  betwixt 
every  pancake,  and  fend  them  hot  to  the  table. 

To  make  Cream  Pancakes. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  mix  them  with 
half  a  pint  of  good  cream,  two  ounces  of  fugar, 

M  3  rub 


i66  THfi.   EXPERIENCED 

rub  your  pan  with  lard,  and  fry  them  as  thin  as 
pcfiible,  grate  fugar  over  them,  andferve  thera 
up  hot. 

To  make  Clary  Pancakes. 

BEAT  three  eggs  with  throe  fpbonfuls  of 
fine  flour,  and  a  little  fai"t,  exceeding  well,  mix 
them  with  a  pint  of  milk,  and  put  lard  into  your 
pan  ;  when  it  is  hot,  pour  in  your  batter  as  thin 
as  poilible,  then  lay  in  your  clary  leaves,  and 
pour  a  little  more  batter  thin  over  them,  fry 
them  a  fine  brown,  and  ferve  them  up. 

To  make  Batter  Pancakes. 

BEAT  three  eggs  with  a  pound  of  flour,  very 
well,  put  to  it  a  pint  of  milk,  and  a  little  fait, 
fry  them  in  lard  or  butter,  grate  fugar  over  them, 
cut  them  in  quarters  and  lerve  fchem  up. 

To  makefile  Pancakes. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  cream,  eight  egg?,  (leave 
out  two  of  the  whites)  three  ipoonfuls  of  fack 
or  orange  -flower  water,  a  little  fugar  if  it  be 
agreeable,  a  grated  nutmeg;  the  butter  and 
cream  Oiufi  be  melted  over  the  fire;  mix  ail  to- 
gether with  three  fpoonfuls  of  flour  ;  butter  the 
frying-pan  for  the  firft,  let  them  run  as  thin  as 
you  can  in  the  pan,  fry  them  quick,  and  fend 
them  up  hot. 

To  make  Tan'sey  Pancakes. 

BEAT  four  eggs,  and  put  to  them  half  a  pint 
of  crearrjj  four  ipoonfuls  of  flour,  and  two  of 

fine 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      167 

line  fugar,  beat  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
put  in  one  fpoonful  of  the  juice  cf  tanfey,  and 
two  of  the  juice  of  fpinage  with  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  beat  all  well  together,  and  fry  them  in 
frefh  butter :  garnifh  them  with  quarters  of 
Seville  oranges,  grate  double  refined  fugar  over 
them,  and  fend  them  up  hot. 

To  make  a  pink-c&loured  Pancake. 

BOIL  a  large  beet  root  tender,  and  beat  it 
fine  in  a  marble  mortar,  then  add  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  two  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  and  three 
fpoonfuls  of  good  cream,  fweeten  it  to  your 
tafte,  and  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  and  put  in  a 
glafs  of  brandy;  beat  them  all  together  half  an 
hour,  fry  them  in  butter,  and  garniih  them  with 
green  fweetmeats,  preferved  apricots,  or  green 
fprigs  of  myrtle. — It  is  a  pretty  corner  difh  for 
either  dinner  or  fupper. 


CHAP.      VI. 

Obfervations  on  Puddings. 

BREAD  and  cuftard  puddings  require  time, 
and  a  moderate  oven,  that  will  raife,  and 
not  burn  them ;  batter  and  rice  puddings  a  quick 
oven,  and  always  butter  the  pan  or  difh  before 
you  pour  the  pudding  in  ;  when  you  boil  a  pud- 
ding, take  great  care  your  cloth  is  very  clean,  dip 
it  in  boiling  water,  and  flour  it  well,  and  give 
your  cloth  a  fhake  5  if  you  boil  it  in  a  bafon, 
M  4  butter 


i68  THE    EXPERIENCED 

butter  it,  and  boil  it  in  plenty  of  water,  and 
turn  it  often,  and  do\not  cover  the  pan  -,  when 
enough  take  it  up  in  the  bafon,  let  it  ftand  a  few 
minutes  to  cool,  then  untie  the  firing,  wrap  the 
cloth  round  the  bafon,  lay  your  dim  over  it, 
and  turn  the  pudding  out,  and  take  the  bafon 
and  cloth  off  very  carefully,  for  very  oftena 
light  pudding  is  broke  in  turning  out. 

^Hunting  Pudding. 

BEAT  eight  eggs,  and  mix  them  with  a  pint 
of  good  cream,  and  a  pound  of  flour,  beat  them 
well  together,  and  put  to  them  a  pound  of  beef 
fuet  chopped  very  fine,  a  pound  of  currants  well 
cleaned,  half  a  pound  of  jar  raiiins  fton^d  and 
chopped  finall,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  powdered 
fugar,  two  ounces  of  candied  citron,  the  fame  of 
candied  orange  cut  fin  all,  grate  a  large  nutmeg, 
and  mix  all  well  together,  with  half  a  gill  of 
brandy,  put  it  in  a  cloth,"  and  tie  it  up  clofe, 
it  will  take  four  hours  boiling. 

*To  make  a  &.WAlmond  Pudding. 

BOIL  the  fkins  of  two  lemons  very  tender, 
and  beat  them  very  fine,  beat  half  a  pound  of 
almonds  in  rofe  water,  and  a  pound  of  fugar, 
very  fine,  melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  and  let 
it  ftand  till  quite  cold;  beat  the  yolks  of  eight 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  four,  mix  them,  and 
beat  them  all  together  with  a  little  orange-flower 
water,  and  bake  it  in  the  oven,    . 


To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.      i6j 

To  make  a  baked  Apple  Pudding. 

HALF  a  pound  of  apples  well  boiled  and 
pounded,  half  a  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a 
cream,  and  mixed  with  the  apples  before  they 
are  cold,  and  fix  eggs  with  the  whites  well 
beaten  and  {trained,  half  a  pound  of  fugar, 
pounded  and  fifted,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons, 
well  boiled  and  beaten  ;  fift  the  peel  into  clean 
water  twice  in  the  boiling,  put  a  thin  cruft  in 
the  bottom  and  rims  of  your  dim.  Half  an 
hour  will  bake  it. 

A  boiled  Custard  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  {tick  or  two  of  cinnamon  in  a  quart 
of  thin  cream,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fugar;  when  it  is  cold  put  in  the  yolks  of  fix 
eggs  well  beat,  and  mix  them  together;  fet  it 
over  a  flow  fire,  and  ftir  it  round  one  way,  till 
it  grows  pretty  thick,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  take 
it  off  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  quite  cold,  butter 
a  cloth  very  well,  and  dredge  it  with  flour^  put 
in  your  cuftard,  and  tie  it  up  very  clofe,  it  will 
take  three  quarters  of  an  hour  boiling  ;  when  you 
take  it  up,  put  it  in  a  round  bafon  to  cool  alittle, 
then  untie  the  cloth,  and  lay  the  dim  on  the 
bowl  and  turn  it  upfide  down  ;  be  careful  how 
you  take  off  the  cloth,  for  a  very  little  will 
break  the  pudding,  grate  over  it  a  little  fugar  % 
for  fauce,  white  wine  thickened  with  flour  and 
butter  put  in  the  dim. 

c  A  Le- 


170  THE   EXPERIENCE© 

A  Lemon  Pudding. 

BLANCH  and  beat  eight  ounces  of  Jordan 
almonds,  with  orange  flower- water,  add  to  them 
half  a  pound  of  cold  butter,  the  yolks  of  ten 
eggs,  the  juice  of  a  large  lemon*  half  the  rind 
grated  line,  work  them  in  a  marble  mortar,  or 
wooden  bafon  till  they  look  white  and  light, 
lay  a  good  puff  pafte  pretty  thin  in  the  bottom 
of  a  China  difh,  and  pour  in  your  pudding  j  it 
will  take  half  an  hour  baking. 

To  make  a  Lemon  Pudding  afecondWay. 

GRATE  the  rinds  of  four  lemons,  and  the 
juice  of  two  or  three,  as  they  are  in  fize,  then 
take  two  bifcuits  grated,  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  boiled  butter,  with  half  a  pound  of 
iugar  diffblved  in  the  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  and 
four  whites  well  beat,  with  a  little  fait  and  a 
quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grafed ;  mix  all  together 
very  well  and  put  it  into  &  difh  ;  put  a  nice  parte 
rcund  the  edge  before  it  goes  into  the  oven. 
Half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 

To  make  a  Lemon  Pudding  a  third  Way, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  flour  well  dried  and  fifted, 
a  pound  of  fine  fugar  beat  and  lifted,  the  rind 
of  a  lemon  grated,  twelve  eggs,  the  yolks  beat 
a  little  by  thernfelves,  and  the  whites  beat  till 
they  are  all  froth,  then  gently  mix  all  together, 
put  it  in  a  pan,  and  bakeit  juft  half  an  hour. 

A  ground 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      171 

A  ground  Rick  Pudding. 

BOIL  four  ounces  of  ground  rice  in  water, 
till  it  be  foft,  then  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  put  to  them  a  pint  of  cream,  four  ounces  of 
fugar,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  mix 
them  all  well  together ;  you  may  either  boil  or 
bake  it. 

An  Orange  Pudding. 

BOIL  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  very  foft, 
beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  juice,  put 
to  it  two  Naples  bifcuits  grated  very  fine,  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar, 
and  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs,  mix  them  well  to- 
gether, lay  a  good  puff  parte  round  the  edge  of 
your  China  dim,  bake  it  in  a  gentle  oven,  half 
an  hour ;  you  may  make  a  lemon  pudding  the 
fame  way,  by  putting  in  a  lemon  inftead  of  the 
orange. 

To  make  an  Orange  Pudding  afecond  Way. 

TAKE  the  rinds  of  fix  oranges,  boil  them 
till  they  are  tender,  changing  the  water  as  often 
as  you  find  it  bitter,  cut  them  very  fine,  then 
pound  and  fift  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf 
fugar,  wafh  very  well  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  then  take  twelve  eggs,  leaving  four 
of  the  whites  out  -,  mix  all  well  together,  but- 
ter the  bottom  of  the  dim  well,  and  make  a 
rich  cruft,  which  muft  be  put  at  the  bottom. 
Bake  it  nicely ;  it  muft  not  be  too  brown. 

Calf's 


j72  THE    EXPERIENCED 

Calf's  Foot  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  gang  of  calf's  feet,  take  the  meat 
from  the  bones  and  chop  it  exceeding  fine,  put 
to  it  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  pound  of  beef 
fuet  flired  very  fmall,  hglf  a  pint  of  cream, 
eight  eggs>  a  pound  of  currants  well  cleanfed, 
four  ounces  of  citron  cut  fmall,  two  ounces  of 
candied  orange  cut  like  draws,  a  large  nutmeg 
grated,  and  a  large  glafs  of  brandy,  mix  them 
all  very  well  together,  butter  your  cloth,  and 
duft  it  with  flour,  tie  it  dole  up,  boil  it  three 
hours  ;  when  you  take  the  pudding  up,  it  is  befi 
to  put  it  in  a  bowl  that  will  juft  hold  it,  and 
let  it  ftand  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  before  you 
turn  it  out,  lay  your  difh  upon  the  top  oi  the 
bafon  and  turn  it  upfide  down, 

A  boiled  Rice  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in  water, 
till  it  be  folt,  and  put  it  in  a  hair  tkve  to  dram, 
beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the  yblks  of 
five  eggs,  a  qu<  rter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  the 
fame  of  fugar,  gnte  a  fmall  nutmeg,  and  the 
rind  of  half  a  lemon,  work  them  well  together 
for  half  an  hour,  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of 
currants  well  waihed  and  cleaned,  mix  them 
well  together,  bucter  your  cloth  and  tie  it  up  ; 
boil  it  an  hour,  and  ferve  it  up  with  white  wine 
fauce. 


Breae 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      i7i 

Bread  Pudding. 

TAKE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  and  pour 
on  it  a  pint  of  good  milk  boiling  hot,  when 
it  is  cold,  beat  it  very  fine,  with  two  ounces  of 
butter  and  fugar  to  your  palate,  grate  half  a 
nutmeg  in  it,  beat  it  up  with  four  eggs,  and 
put  them  in  and  beat  all  together  near  half  an 
hour,  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it  an  hour,  you 
may  put  in  half  a  pound  of  currants  for  change, 
and  pour  over  it  white  winefauce. 

To  make  a  boiled  Bread  Pudding  afecond 
Way, 

TAKE  the  infide  of  a  penny  loaf,  grate  it 
fine,  add  to  it  two  ounces  of  butter,  take  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  milk,  with  a  flick  of  cinnamon  ; 
boil  it  and  pour  it  over  the  bread,  and  cover  it 
clofe  till  it  is  cold,  then  take  fix  eggs  beat  up 
very  well  with  rofe  water,  mix  them  all  well 
together,  fweeten  to  your  tafte,  and  boil  it  one 
hour. 

To  make  a  Nice  Pudding. 

BOIL  half  a  pint  of  milk  with  a  bit  of  cin- 
namon, four  eggs  with  the  whites  well  beaten, 
the  rind  of  a  lemon  grated,  half  a  pound  of 
fuet  chopped  fine,  as  much  bread  as  will  do ;  pour 
your  milk  on  the  bread  and  fuet,  keep  mixing 
it  till  cold,  then  put  in  the  lemon  peel,  -eggs, 
a  little  fugar,  and  fome  nutmeg  grated  fine. 
Either  bake  or  boil  it,  as  you  think  proper. 

To 


jt74  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  make  a  Plain  Pudding. 

BEAT  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs, 
with  two  large  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  a  little  fait, 
and  half  a  pint  of  good  milk  or  cream,  make  it 
the  thicknefs  of  a  pancake  batter,  and  heat  all 
very  well  together.     Half  an  hour  will  boil  it* 

To  make  a  Sippet  Pudding. 

CUT  a  penny  loaf  as  thin  as  poffible,  put  a 
layer  of  bread  in  the  bottom  of  a  pewter  dim, 
then  ftrew  over  it  a  layer  of  marrow,  or  beef  fuet, 
a  handful  of  currants,  then  lay  a  layer  of  bread, 
and  fo  on  till  you  fill  your  dim  -y  as  the  firft  lay, 
let  the  marrow  or  fuet,  and  currants  be  at  the 
top,  beat  four  eggs  and  mix  them  with  a  quart 
of  cream,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar,  and  a 
large  nutmeg  grated,,  pour  it  on  your  dim,  andv 
bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven,  when  it  comes  out 
of  the  oven,  pour  over  it  wine  fauce. 

An  x^pricot  Pudding. 

TAKE  twelve  large  apricots,  pare  them,  and 
give  them  a  fcald  in  water,  till  they  are  loft;  then 
takeout  the  ftones,  grate  the  crumb  of  a  penny 
loaf,  and  pour  on  it  a  pint  of  cream  boling  hot, 
let  it  ftand  till  half  cold,  then  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  fugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  mix* 
all  together  with  a  glafs  of  Madeira  wine,  pour 
it  in  a  dim,  with  thin  puffpafte  round;  bake  it 
half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 

A  Tkans- 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      175 

^Transparent  Pudding. 

BEAT  eight  eggs  very  well,  and  put  them  111 
a  pan,  with  half  a  pound  of  butter,  and  the  fame 
weight  of  loaf  fugar  beat  fine,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg, fet  it  on  the  fire  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it 
thickens  like  buttered  eggs,  then  put  it  inabafon 
to  cool,  roll  a  rich  puffpafte  very  thin,  lay  it 
round  the  edge  of  a  China  difh,  then  pour  in  the 
pudding,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  half  an 
hour,  it  will  cut  light  and  clear. — It  is  a  pretty 
pudding  for  a  corner  for  dinner  and  a  middie 
for  fupper. 

^Vermicelli  Pudding. 

BOIL  four  ounces  of  vermicelli  in  a  pint  of 
new  milk  till  it  is  foft,  with  a  ftick  or  two  of 
cinnamon,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  a  quaiter  of  a 
pound  of  fugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  beaten 

eggs. Bake  it  in  an  earthen  difh  without  a 

parte. 

A  red  Sago  Pudding. 

TAKE  two  ounces  of  fago,  boil  it  in  water, 
with  a  ftick  of  cinnamon  till  it  be  quite  foft  and 
thick,  let  it  ftand  till  quite  cold,  in  the  mean 
time  grate  the  crumb  of  a  halfpenny  loaf,  and 
pour  over  it  a  large  glafs  of  red  wine,  chop  four 
ounces  of  marrow,  and  half  a  pound  of  fugar, 
and  the  yolks  of  four  beaten  eggs,  beat  them  all 
together   for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  lay  a  puff 

parte 


176  THE    EXPERIENCED 

pafte  round  your  difli,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven  % 
when  it  comes  back  flick  it  over  with  blanched 
almonds  cut  the  long  way,  and  bits  of  citron  cut 
the  fame  5  fend  it  to  table. 

A  boiled Tansey  Pudding, 

GRATE  four  Naples  bifcuits,  put  as  much 
cream  boiling  hot  as  will  wet  them,  beat  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  have  ready  a  few  chopped 
tanfey  leaves,  with  as  much  fpinage  as  will  make 
it  a  pretty  green,  be  careful  you  do  not  put  too 
much  tanfey  in,  it  will  make  it  bitter,  mix  all 
together  when  the  cream  is  cold  with  a  little 
fugar,  and  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire  till  it  grows 
thick,  then  take  it  off,  and  when  cold  put  it  in 
a  cloth,  well  buttered  and  floured,  tie  it  up  clofe 
and  let  it  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  take  it 
up  in  a  bafon,  and  let  it  ftand  one  quarter,  then 
turn  it  carefully  out,  and  put  white  wine  fauce 
round  it. 

A  Tansey  Pudding  with  Almonds. 

BLANCH  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  beat 
them  very  fine  with  rofe  water,  flice  a  French 
roll  very  thin,  put  on  a  pint  of  cream  boiling 
hot,  beat  four  eggs  very  well,  and  mix  with  the 
eggs  when  beaten  a  little  fugar  and  grated  nut- 
meg, a  glafs  -of  brandy,  a  little  juice  of  tanfey, 
and  the  juice  of  fpinage  to  make  it  green,  put 
all  the  ingredients  into  aftew-pan,  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pound  of  butter,  and  give  it  a  gentle 
boil ;  you  may  either  boil  it  or  bake  it  in  a  difh, 
either  with  a  cruft  or  writing  paper. 

*     A 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       177 

A  Tansey  Pudding  of  ground  Rice. 

BOIL  fix  ounces  of  ground  rice  in  a  quart  of 
good  milk,  till  it  is  foft ;  then  put  in  half  a  pound 
of  butter,  with  fix  eggs  very  well  beat,  and  fugar 
and  rofe  water  to  make  it  palatable;  beat  fome 
fpinage  in  a  mortar,  with  a  few  leaves  of  tanfey, 
fqueeze  out  the  juice  through  a  cloth,  and  put 
it  in ;  mix  all  well  together,  cover  your  dim  with 
writing  paper  well  buttered,  and  pour  it  in  -, 
three  quarters  of  an  hour  will  bake  it;  when 
you  dim  it  up  ftick  it  all  over  with  a  Seville  or 
fweet  orange  in  half  quarters. 

A  Sago  Pudding  another  Way. 

BOIL  two  ounces  of  fago  till  it  is  quite  thick 
in  milk,  beat  fix  eggs,  leaving  out  three  of  the 
whites,  put  to  it  half  a  pint  of  cream,  two 
fpoonfuls  of  fack,  nutmeg  and  fugar  to  your 
tafte;  put  a  pafte  round  your  difh. 

Little  Citron  Puddings. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  cream,  one  fpoonfu£ 
of  fine  flour,  two  ounces  of  fugar,  a  little  nut- 
meg, mix  them  all  well  together,  with  the  yolks 
of  three  eggs,  put  it  in  tea-cups,  and  ftick  in  it 
two  ounces  of  citron  cut  very  thin,  bake  them 
in  a  pretty  quick  oven,  and  turn  them  out  upon 
a  China  difh. — Five  is  enough  for  a  fide  difh. 

A  baked  Tansey  Pudding. 

GRATE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  pour 
on   it   a  pint  of  boiling  milk,   with  a  quarter 

N  «f 


178  THE    EXPERIENCED 

of  a  pound  of  butter  in  it,  let  it  ftand  till  alrnoft 
cold,  then  beat  five  eggs,  and  put  them  in  with 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar,  a  large  nutmeg 
grated,  and  a  glafs  of  brandy,  ftir  them  about 
and  put  them  in  a  toffing  pan,   with  as  much 
juice  of  fpinage   as   will   green  it,  and  a  little 
tanfey  chopped  fmall,  ftir  it  about  over  a  flow 
fire  till  it  grows  thick,  butter  a  fheet  of  writing 
paper  and  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of  a  pewter  dim, 
pin  the  corners  of  the  paper  to  make  it   ftand 
one  inch  above  the  dim,  to  keep  the  pudding 
from  fpreading,  and  let  it  ftand  three  quarters  of 
an  hour  in  the  oven ;  when  baked,  put  the  difli 
over  it  you  fend  it  up  in,  and  turn  it  out  upon  it, 
take  off  the  paper,  ftick  it  round  with  a  Seville 
orange  cut  in  half  quarters,  ftick  one  quarter  in 
the  middle,  and  ferve  it  up  with  wine  fauce.     It 
will  look  as  green  as  if  it  had  not  been   baked, 
when  turned  out. 

A  green  Codling  Pudding. 

GREEN  a  quart  of  codlings,  as  for  a  pye, 
rub  them  through  a  hair  fieve  with  the  back  of 
a  wooden  fpoon,  and  as  much  of  the  juice  of 
beets  as  will  green  your  podding,  put  in  the 
crumbs  of  half  a  penny  loaf,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  three  eggs  well  beaten;  beat  them 
all  together  with  half  a  pound  of  fugar,  and  two 
fpoonfuls  of  cyder;  lay  a  good  pafte  round  the 
rim  of  the  dim,  and  pour  it  in, — Half  an  hour 
will  bake  it. 


«fi 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     179 

To  make  a  common  Rice  Pudding. 

WASH  half  a  pound  of  rice,  put  to  it  three 
pints  of  good  milk,  mix  it  well  with  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  batter,  a  flick  or  two  of  cinnamon 
beaten  fine,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  egg  well 

beat,    a  little  fait  and   fugar  to  your  tafte. 

One  hour  and  a  half  will  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven ; 
when  it  comes  out  take  off  the  top,  and  put  the 
pudding  in  breakfaft  cups,  turn  them  into  a  hot 
difh  like  little  puddings,  and  ferve  it  up, 

^Marrow  Pudding. 

POUR  on  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  a  pint 
of  cream  boiling  hot,  cut  a  pound  of  beef  mar- 
row very  thin,  beat  four  eggs  very  well,  then  add 
a  glafs  of  brandy,  with  fugar  and  nutmeg  to  your 
tafte,  and  mix  them  all  well  up  together  j  you 
may  either  boil  or  bake  it,  three  quarters  of  an. 
hour  will  do  it,  cut  two  ounces  of  citron  very 
thin>  and  ftick  them  all  over  it  when  ycu  dim 
it  up. 

Marrow  Pudding  afecondJVay. 

HALF  boil  four  ounces  of  rice,  fhred  half 
a  pound  of  marrow  very  fine,  ftone  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  raifins,  chop  them  very  fmall,  with 
two  ounces  of  currants  well  cleanfed,  beat  four 
eggs  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  mix  it  all  together  with 
a  pint  of  good  cream,  a  fpoonful  of  brandy,  fugar 
and  nutmeg  to  your  tafte  $  you  may  either  bake 
it  or  put  it  in  hogs  fkins. 

N  2  Marrow 


180  THE  EXPERIENCED 

Marrow  Pudding  a  third  Way. 

BLANCH  half  a  pound  of  almonds,  put 
them  in  cold  water  all  night,  and  next  day  beat 
them  in  a  marble  mortar  very  fine,  with  orange- 
flower,  or  rofe  water,  take  the  crumb  of  a  penny 
loaf,  and  pour  on  them  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  ; 
whilft  the  cream  is  cooling,  beat  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  two  whites  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
add  a  little  fugar,  and  grate  nutmeg  to  your  pa- 
late, have  ready  fhred  the  marrow  of  two  bones, 
and  mix  them  all  well  together  with  a  little  can- 
died orange  cut  fmall,  this  is  ufually  made  to  fill 
in  fkins,  but  it  is  a  good  baked  pudding  :  if  you 
put  it  in  fkins,  do  not  fill  them  too  full,  for  it 
will  fwell,   but  boil  them  gently. 

White  Puddings  in  Skins. 

WASH  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  warm  water, 
boil  it  in  milk  till  it  is  foft,  put  it  in  a  fieve  to 
drain,  blanch  and  beat  half  a  pound  of  Jordan 
almonds  very  fine,  with  rofe  water,  warn  and 
dry  a  pound  of  currants,  then  cut  in  fmall  bits 
a  pound  of  hog's  lard,  take  fix  eggs  and  beat 
them  well,  half  a  pound  of  fugar,  a  large  nut- 
meg grated,  a  flick  of  cinnamon,  a  little  mace, 
and  a  little  fait,  mix  them  very  well  together, 
fill  your  fkins  and  boil  them. 

To  make  a  Quaking  Pudding. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  cream  and  let  it  fland  till 
almoft  cold,  then  beat  four  eggs  a  full  quarter  of 
an  hour,  with  a  fpoonful  and  a  half  of  flour,  then 
mix  them  with  your  cream,  add  fugar  and  nut- 
meg to  your  palate,  tie  it  clofe  up  in  a  cloth  well 

buttered,  j 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       181 

buttered,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  and  turn  it  care- 
fully out. 

To  make  a  Quaking  Pudding  afecondWay. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  good  cream,  the  yolks  of 
ten  eggs  and  fix  whites,  beat  them  very  well, 
and  run  them  through  a  fine  fieve  ;  then  take 
two  heaped  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  fpoonful 
or  two  of  cream,  beat  it  with  the  flour  till  it  be 
fmooth,  then  mix  all  together,  and  tie  it  clofe 
up  in  a  dim  or  bafon  well  rubbed  with  butter, 
and  dredged  with  flour,  the  water  mult  boil 
when  you  put  in  the  pudding.  One  hour  will 
boil  it ;  ferve  it  up  with  wine  fauce  in  a  boat. 

To  make  a  Yorkshire  Puddinq  to  bake  under 

Meat. 

BEAT  four  eggs  with  four  large  fpoonfuls  of 
fine  flour,  and  a  little  fait,  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  put  to  them  one  quart  and  a  half  of  milk, 
mix  them  well  together,  then  butter  a  dripping- 
pan  and  fet  it  under  beef,  mutton,  or  a  loin  of 
veal  when  roafting,  and  when  it  is  brown  cut  it 
in  fquare  pieces  and  turn  it  over  ;  when  well 
browned  on  the  under  fide,  fend  it  to  table  on  a 
dim.— You  may  mix  a  boiled  pudding  the  fame 
wray. 

A  boiled  Milk  Pudding. 

POUR  a  pint  of  new  milk  boiling  hot  on 
three  fpoonfuls  of  fine  flour,  beat  the  flour  and 
milk  for  half  an  hour,  then  put  in  three  eggs  and 
beat  it  a  little  longer,  grate  in  half  a  tea- fpoonful 
of  ginger,  dip  the  cloth  in  boiling  water,  butter 
it  well,  and  flour  it,  put  in  the  pudding  and  tie 
it  clofe  up,  and  boil  it  an  hour;  it  requires  great 

N  3  care 


i82         THE  EXPERIENCED 

care  when  you  turn  it  out;  pour  over  it  thick 
melted  butter. 

Herb  Pudding: 

OF  fpinage,  beets,  pariley,  and  leeks  take 
each  a  handful,  waft  them  and  give  them  a  fcald 
in  boiling  water,  then  fhred  them  very  fine, 
have  ready  a  quart  of  groats  fteeped  in  warm 
water  half  an  hour,  and  a  pound  of  hog's-lard 
cut  in  little  bits,  three  large  onions  chopped 
fmall,  and  three  fage  leaves  hacked  fine,  put  in 
a  little  fait,  mix  all  well  together,  and  tie  it  clofe 
up;  it  will  require  to  betaken  up  in  boiling  to 
fiacken  the  firing  a  little. 

To  make  a  Yam  Pudding. 

TAKE  a  middling  white  yam,  and  either 
boil  or  road  it,  then  pare  off  the  fkin  and  pound 
it  very  fine,  with  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
butter,  half  a  pound  of  fugar,  a  little  mace, 
cinnamon,  and  twelve  eggs,  leaving  out  half 
the  whites,  beat  them  with  a  little  rofe  water. 
You  may  put  in  a  little  citron  cut  fmall,  if  you 
like  it,  and  bake  it  nicely. 

Gooseberry  Pudding. 

SCALD  half  a  pint  of  green  goofeberries  in 
water  till  they  are  fbft,  put  them  into  a  Ci^vq  to 
drain,  when  cold  work  them  through  an  hair 
fieve  with  the  back  of  a  clean  wooden  fpoon, 
add  to  them  half  a  pound  of  fugar,  and  the  fame 
of  butter,  four  ounces  of  Naples  bifcuits,  beat 
fix  eggs  very  well,  then  mix  all  together,  and 
beat  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  pour  it  in  an 
earthen  dim  without  pafte  ;  half  an  hour  will 
bake  it. 

Si 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     183 

To  make  Raspberry  Dumplins. 

MAKE  a  good  cold  parte,  roll  it  a  quarter  of 
an  inch  thick,  and  fpread  over  it  rafpberry  jam 
to  your  own  liking,  roll  it  up,  and  boil  it  in  a 
cloth  one  hour  at  leaft,  take  it  up,  and  cut  it  in 
five  dices,  and  lay  one  in  the  middle  and  the  other 
four  round  it,  pour  a  little  good  melted  butter 
in  the  difh,  and  grate  fine  fugar  round  the  edge 
of  the  difh. — It  is  proper  for  a  corner  or  fide 
for  dinner. 

To  make  Damson  Dumplins. 

MAKE  a  good  hot  parte  cruft,  roll  it  pretty 
thin,  lay  it  in  a  bafon,  and  put  in  what  quantity 
of  damfons  you  think  proper,  wet  the  edge  of 
the  parte,  and  clofe  it  up,  boil  it  in  a  cloth  one 
hour  and  fend  it  up  whole,  pour  over  it  melted 
butter,  and  grate  fugar  round  the  edge  of  the 
difh :  Note,  you  may  make  any  kind  of  pre- 
ferved  fruit  the  fame  way. 

To  make  Apple  Dumplins. 
PARE  your  apples,  take  out  the  core  with  an 
apple  fcraper,  fill  the  hole  with  quince  or  orange 
marmalade,  or  fugar,  which  fuits  you,  then  take 
a  piece  of  cold  parte,  and  make  a  hole  in  it,  as 
if  you  was  going  to  make  a  pye,  lay  in  your  ap- 
ple, and  put  another  piece  of  parte  in  the  fame 
form,  and  clofe  it  up  round  the  fide  of  your  ap<- 
pie,  it  is  much  better  than  gathering  it  in  a  lump 
at  one  end,  tie  it  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  it  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  pour  melted  butter  over 
them,  and  ferye  them  up,  five  is  enough  for  a 
difh. 

N  4  To 


184  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  make  a  Sparrow  Dumpling. 
MIX  half  a  pint  of  good  milk,  with  three 
eggs,  a  little  fait,  and  as  much  flour  as  will 
make  it  a  thick  batter,  put  a  lump  of  butter 
rolled  in  pepper  and  fait  in  every  fparrow,  mix 
them  in  the  batter,  and  tie  them  in  a  cloth,  boil 
them  one  hour  and  a  half,  pour  melted  butter 
over  them  and  ferve  them  up. 

To  make  a  Barm  Pudding. 
TAKE  a  pound  of  flour,  mix  a  fpoonful  of 
barm  in  it,  with  a  little  fait,  and  make  it  into 
a  light  pafle  with  warm  water,  let  it  lie  one 
hour,  then  make  it  up  into  round  balls,  and  tie 
them  up  in  little  nets,  and  put  them  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water,  do  not  cover  them,  it  will  make 
them  fad,  nor  do  not  let  them  boil  fo  faft  as  to 
let  the  water  boil  over  them,  turn  them  when 
they  have  been  in  fix  or  feven  minutes,  and  they 
will  rife  through  the  netsand  look  like  diamonds, 
twenty  minutes  will  boil  them  ;  ferve  them  up 
and  pour  fweet  fauce  over  them. 

To  make  a  Hanover  Cake  or  Pudding. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched, 
and  beat  fine  with  a  little  rofe  water,  half  a 
pound  of  fine  fugar,  pounded  and  lifted,  fifteen 
eggs,  leaving  out  half  the  whites,  the  rind  of 
a  lemon  grated  very  fine;  put  a  few  almonds  in 
the  moi  tar  at  a  time,  and  put  in  by  degrees  about 
a  tea-cupful  of  rofe  water;  keep  throwing  in 
the  fugar  ;  when  you  have  done  the  almonds  and 
fugar  together  a  little  at  a  time  till  they  are  all 
uied  up,  then  put  it  into  your  pan  with  the  eggs: 
beat  them  very  well  together.  Half  an  hour 
will  bake  i;  j  it  muft  be  a  light  brown. 

PART 


PART       II. 

CHAP.     VII. 

Obfcrvations  on  making  Decorations  for  a 

Table. 

WHEN  you  fpin  a  filver  web  for  a  defert, 
always  take  particular  care  your  lire  is 
clear,  and  a  pan  of  water  upon  the 
fire  to  keep  the  heat  from  your  face  and  fto- 
mach,  for  fear  the  heat  fhould  make  you  faint; 
you  muft  not  fpin  it  before  a  kitchen  fire,  for 
the  fmallerthe  grate  is,  fo  that  the  fire  be  clear 
and  hot,  the  better  able  you  will  be  to  fit  a  long 
time  before  it,  for  if  you  fpin  a  whole  defert, 
you  will  be  feveral  hours  in  (pinning  it ;  be  fure 
to  have  a  tin  box  to  put  every  baflcet  in  as  you 
fpin  them,  and  cover  them  from  the  air,  and 
keep  them  warm,  until  you  have  done  the  whole 
as  your  receipt  directs  you. 

If  you  fpin  a  gold  web,  take  care  your  chafing 
difh  is  burnt  clear;  before  you  fet  it  upon  the 
table  where  your  mould  is,  fet  your  ladle  on  the 
fire,andkeep  ftirring  it  with  a  wooden  fkewer  till 
it  jufi:  boils,  then  let  it  cool  a  little,  for  it  will 
not  fpin  when  it  is  boiling  hot,  and  if  it  grows 
cold  it  is  equally  as  bad,  but  as  it  cools  on  the 
fides  of  your  ladle,  dip  the  point  of  your  knife 
in,  and  begin  to  fpin  round  your  mould  as  long 
as  it  will  draw,  then  heat  it  again ;  the  only  art 
is  to  keep  it  of  a  proper  heat,  and  it  will  draw 
out  like  a  fine  thread,  and  of  a  gold  colour ;  it 
is  a  great  fault  to  put  in  too  much  fugar  at  a  time, 
*  for 


j 86        THE   EXPERIENCED 
for  often  heating  takes  the  moifture  out  of  the 
fugar,  and  burns  it ;  therefore  the  beft  way  is  to 
put  in  a  little  at  a  time,  and  clean  out  your  ladle. 

When  you  make  a  hen  or  bird's  neft,  let  part 
of  your  jelly  be  fet  in  your  bowl  before  you  put 
on  your  flummery,  or  ftraw,  for  if  your  jelly  is 
warm  they  will  fettle  to  the  bottom,  and  mix 
together* 

If  it  be  a  fifh  pond,  or  a  tranfparent  pudding, 
put  in  your  jelly  at  three  different  times,  to  make 
your  diflb  or  fruit  keep  at  a  proper  diftanceone 
from  another,  and  be  fure  your  jelly  is  very  clear 
and  ftiff,  or  it  will  not  fhow  the  figures,  nor  keep 
whole;  when  you  turn  them  out,  dip  your  bafon 
in  warm  water,  as  your  receipt  directs,  then  turn 
your  diih  or  falver  upon  the  top  of  your  bafon, 
and  turn  your  bafon  upfide  down. 

When  you  make  flummery,  always  obferve 
to  have  it  pretty  thick,  and  your  moulds  wet  in 
cold  water  before  you  put  in  your  flummery,  or 
your  jelly  will  fettle  to  the  bottom,  and  the 
cream  fwim  at  the  top,  fo  that  it  will  look  to  be 
two  different  colours. 

If  you  make  cuftards,  do  not  let  them  boil 
after  the  yolks  are  in,  but  Pcir  them  all  one  way, 
and  keep  them  of  a  good  heat  till  they  be  thick 
enough,  and  the  rawnefs  of  the  eggs  is  gone  off* 

When  you  make  whips  or  fyllabubs,  raife 
your  froth  with  a  chocolate  mill,  and  lay  it  upon 
a  iieve  to  drain,  it  will  be  much  prettier,  and 
will  lie  upon  yourglafles,  without  mixing  with 
your  wine  or  running  down  the  fides  of  your 
glaffes  i  and  when  you  have  made  any  of  the 
before  mentioned  things,  keep  them  in  a  cool 
2  airy 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  187 
airy  place,  for  a  clofe  place  will  give  them  a  bad 
tafte,  and  foon  fpoil  them. 

To  f pin  a  Silver  Web  for  covering  Sweet- 
Meats. 
TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  treble-refined 
fugar,  in  one  lump,  and  fet  it  before  a  moderate 
fire  on  the  middle  of  a  filver  falver,  or  pewter 
plate,  fet  it  a  little  aflant,  and  when  it  begins  to 
run  like  clear  water  to  the  edge  of  the  plate  or 
falver,  have  ready  a  tin  cover,  or  china  bowl 
fet  on  a  ftool,  with  the  mouth  downward,  clofe 
to  your  fugar,  that  it  may  not  cool  by  carrying 
too  far,  then  take  a  clean  knife,  and  take  up  as 
much  of  the  fyrup  as  the  point  of  the  knife  will 
hold,  and  a  fine  thread  will  come  from  the  point, 
which  you  muft  draw  as  quick  as  poffible  back- 
wards and  forwards  and  alfo  round  the  mould, 
as  long  as  it  will  fpin  from  the  knife ;  be  very- 
careful  you  do  not  drop  the  fyrup  on  the  web,  if 
you  do  it  will  fpoil  it,  then  dip  your  knife  into 
the  fyrup  again,  and  take  up  more,  and  fo  keep 
fpinning  till  your  fugar  is  done,  or  your  web  is 
thick  enough;  be  fure  you  do  not  let  the  knife 
touch  the  lump  on  the  plate  that  is  not  melted, 
it  will  make  it  brittle,  and  not  fpin  at  all,  if  your 
fugar  is  fpent  before  your  web  is  done,  put  frefh 
fugar  on  a  clean  plate  or  falver,  and  do  not  fpin 
from  the  fame  plate  again;  if  you  do  not  want  the 
'web  to  cover  the  fweetmeats  immediately,  fet  it 
in  a  deep  pewter  difh,  and  cover  it  with  a  tin 
cover,  and  lay  a  cloth  over  it,  to  prevent  the  air 
from  getting  to  it,  and  fet  it  before  the  fire  (it 
requires  to  be  kept  warm,  or  it  will  fall)  when 

your 


i88  THE  EXPERIENCED 

your  dinner  or  flipper  is  difhed,  have  ready  a 
plate  or  difh  the  fize  of  your  web,  filled  with 
different  coloured  fweetmeats,  and  fet  your  web 
over  it.  It  is  pretty  for  a  middle,  where  the  dimes 
are  few,  or  corner  where  the  number  is  large. 

To  fpin  a  Gold  Web  for  covering  Sweet? 

Meats. 

BEAT  four  ounces  of  treble-refined  fugar  in 
a  marble  mortar,  and  fift  it  through  a  hair  fieve, 
then  put  it  in  a  filver  or  brafs  ladle,  but  filver 
makes  the  colour  better,  fet  it  over  a  chafing- 
difh  of  charcoal,  that  is  burnt  clear,  and  fet  it 
on  a  table,  and  turn  a  tin  cover  or  china  bowl 
upfide  down  upon  the  fame  table,  and  when  your 
fugar  is  melted,  it  will  be  of  a  gold  colour,  take 
your  ladle  off  the  fire,  and  begin  to  fpin  it  with 
a  knife,  the  fame  way  as  the  filver  web  ;  when 
the  fugar  begins  to  cool  and  fet,  put  it  over  the 
fire  to  warm,  and  fpin  it  as  before,  but  do  not 
warm  it  too  often,  it  will  turn  the  fugar  a  bad 
colour ;  if  you  have  not  enough  fugar,  clean 
the  ladle  before  you  put  in  more,  and  fpin  it 
till  your  web  is  thick  enough,  then  take  it  off 
and  fet  it  over  the  fweetmeats,  as  you  did  the 
filver  web. 

To  make  Gum  Paste  for  Desert  Basket^ 
or  Covers. 
TAKE  one  ounce  of  gum  dragon,  fteep  it  in 
a  tea-cupful  of  cold  water  all  night,  the  next 
morning  have  ready  a  pound  of  treble-refined 
fugar,  beat  and  fift  it  through  a  filk  fieve,  rub 
your  gum  through  a  hair  iieve,  then  mix  your 

iu^ar 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  189 
fugarand  gum  together  with  a  ftrong  hand,  and 
in  working  it  will  become  as  white  as  fnow  ; 
then  take  a  little  fine  hair  powder,  and  make  it 
into  a  very  ftiff*  pafte,  and  cut  it  into  bafkets, 
or  crocrans,  fwans,  or  any  kind  of  mould  or 
figure  you  pleafe ;  dry  it  in  a  very  cool  ftove  or 
oven,  or  before  the  fire,  and  it  will  be  quite 
white  and  hard  and  fit  for  ufe,  either  to  cover 
fweetmeats  or  to  fet  off  a  defert. 

To  make  a  Chinese  Temple  or  Obelisk. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  fine  flour,  half  an 
ounce  of  butter,  one  ounce  of  fine  fugar,  boil 
the  fugar  and  butter  in  a  little  water,  when  it  is 
cold  beat  an  egg  and  put  to  the  water,  fugar,  and 
butter,  mix  it  with  the  flour,  and  make  it  into 
a  very  ftiff"  pafte,  then  roll  it  as  thin  as  poflible, 
have  a  fet  of  tins  the  form  of  a  temple,  and  put 
the  pafte  upon  them,  and  cut  it  in  what  form 
you  pleafe,  upon  the  feparate  parts  of  your  tins, 
keeping  them  feparate  till  baked,  but  take  care  to 
have  the  pafte  exactly  the  fize  of  the  tins ;  when 
you  have  cut  all  the  parts,  bake  them  in  a  flow 
oven,  when  cold  take  them  out  of  the  tins  and 
join  the  parts  with  ftrong  ifinglafs  and  water 
with  a  cameFs-hair  brufh,  and  fet  them  one  upon 
the  other,  and  the  forms  of  the  tin  moulds 
will  diredt  you;  if  you  cut  it  neat,  and  the  pafte 
be  rolled  very  thin,  it  is  a  beautiful  corner  for  a 
large  table ;  if  you  have  obelifk  moulds  you  may 
make  them  the  fame  way  for  an  oppofite  corner. 
Take  care  to  make  the  pillars  ftronger  than  the 
top,  fo  as  to  bear  the  weight;  you  may  cut  the 

form 


190  THE   EXPERIENCED 

form  of  covers  with  this  pafte  for  wet  or  dry 

fweetmeats,  or  creams  for  fupper  dimes. 

To  make  a  Desert  of  Spun  Sugar. 
Spin  two  large  webs,  and  turn  one  upon  the 
other  to  form  a  globe,  and  put  in  the  infide  of 
them  a  few  fprigs  of  fmall  flowers  and  myrtle, 
and  fpin  a  little  more  round  to  bind  them  toge- 
ther, and  fet  them  covered  clofe  up  before  the 
fire,  then  fpin  two  more  on  a  leffer  bowl  and 
put  in  a  fprig  of  myrtle,  and  a  few  fmall  flowers, 
and  bind  them  as  before,  fet  them  by,  and  fpin 
two  more  lefs  than  the  laft,  and  put  in  a  few 
Howers,  bind  them  and  fet  them  by,  then  fpin 
twelve  couple  on  tea-cups  of  three  different  fizes 
in  proportion  to  the  globes,  to  reprefent  bafkets, 
and  bind  them  two  and  two  as  the  globes  with 
fpun  fugarj  let  the  globes  on  a  filver  falver,  one 
upon  another,  the  largeft  at  the  bottom,  and 
fmalleft  at  the  top  ;  when  you  have  fixed  the 
globes,  run  two  fmall  wires  through  the  middle 
of  the  largefl  globes,  acrofs  each  other ;  then 
take  a  large  darning  needle  and  filk,  and  run  it 
through  the  middle  of  the  largeft  bafkets,  crofs 
it  at  the  bottom,  and  bring  it  up  to  the  top,  and 
make  a  loop  to  hang  them  on  the  wire,  and  do 
fo  with  the  reft  of  your  bafkets,  hang  the  largeft 
bafkets  on  the  wires,  then  put  two  more  wires 
a  little  fhorter  acrofs,  through  the  middle  of  the 
fecond  globes,  and  put  the  ends  of  the  wires  out 
betwixt  the  bafkets,  and  hang  on  the  four  mid- 
dle ones,  then  run  two  more  wires  fhorter  than 
the  laft,  through  the  middleof  the  top  globes,  and 
hang  the  balkets  over  the  loweft;  itick  a  fprig 

of 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER,     igi 

of  myrtle  on  the  top  of  your  globes,  and  fet  it  in 
on  the  middle  of  the  table.—  Obferve  you  do  not 
put  too  much  fugar  down  at  a  time  for  a  filver 
web,  becaufe  the  fugar  will  lofeits  moifture,  and 
run  in  lumps  inftead  of  drawing  out;  nor  too 
much  in  the  ladle,  for  the  gold  web  will  lofe 
its  colour  by  heating  too  oft. — You  may  make 
the  bafkets  a  filver,  and  the  globes  a  gold  co- 
lour, if  you  choofe  them. — It  is  a  pretty  defert 
for  a  grand  table. 

To  ?nake  Calf's  Foot  Jelly. 

PUT  a  gang  of  calves  feet  well  cleaned  into 
a  pan,  with   fix  quarts  of  water,   and  let  them 
boil  gently  till  reduced  to  two  quarts,  then  take 
out  the  feet,   fcum  off  the  fat  clean,  and  clear 
the  jelly  from  the  fediment,   beat  the  whites 
of  five  eggs  to  a  froth,   then  add  one  pint  of 
Lilbon,  Madeira,  or  any  pale  made  wine,  if  you 
choofe  it,  then  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  three  le- 
mons ;  when  your  ftock  is   boiling,  take  three 
fpoonfuls  of  it,  and  keep  ftirring  it  with  your 
wine  and  eggs  to  keep  it  from  curdling,  then  add 
a  little  more  ftock,  and  ftill  keep  ftirring  it,  and 
then  put  it  in  the  pan,  and  fweeten  it  with  loaf 
fugar  to  your  tafte,  a  giafs  of  French  brandy  will 
keep  the  jelly  from  turning  blue  in  frofty  air, 
put  in  the  outer  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  let  it 
boil  one  minute  all  together,  and  pour  it  into  a 
flannel  bag,  and  let  it  run  into  a  bafon,  and  keep 
pouring  it  br.ck  gently  into  the  bag  till  it  runs 
clear  and  bright,  then  fet  your  glaffes  under  the 
bag,  and  cover  it  left  duft  gets  in. — If  you  would 
have  the  jelly  for  a  fifh-pond,  tranfparent  pud- 
ding 


igt  THE    EXPERIENCED 

ding,  or  hen's  neft,  to  be  turned  out  of  the 
mould,  boil  half  a  pound  of  ifinglafs  in  a  pint 
of  water,  till  reduced  to  one  quarter,  and  put 
it  into  the  flock  before  it  is  refined. 

To  make  Savoury  Jelly* 

SPREAD  fome  flices  of  lean  veal  and  ham, 
in  the  bottom  of  a  ftew-pan,  with  a  carrot  and 
turnip  or  two  or  three  onions ;  cover  it,  and  let 
it  fweat  on  a  flow  fire,  till  it  is  as  deep  a  brown 
as  you  would  have  it,  then  put  to  it  a  quart  of 
very  clear  broth,  fome  whole  pepper,  mace,  a 
very  little  ifinglafs,  and  fait  to  your  tafte  ;  let 
this  boil  ten  minutes,  then  drain  it  through  a 
French  ftrainer,  fcum  off  all  the  fat  and  put  it 
to  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  run  it  feveral  times 
through  a  jelly  bag  as  you  do  other  jellies. 

To  make  Savoury  Jelly  for  cold  Meat. 

BOIL  beef  and  mutton  to  a  ftifF  jelly,  feafon 
it  with  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  a  blade  or  two  of 
mace,  and  an  onion,  then  beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs,  put  it  to  the  jelly,  and  beat  it  a  little,  then 
run  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  when  clear  pour 
it  on  your  meat  or  fowls  in  the  difh  you  fend  it 
up  on. 

To  make  Hartshorn   Jelly  afecondWay. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  hartfhorn  and  put  to 
it  two  quarts  of  water,  let  it  (land  in  the  oven 
all  night,  then  ftrain  it  from  the  hartfhorn,  and 
put  to  it  a  pint  of  rhenifli  wine,  the  whites  of 

four 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      293 

four  eggs,  a  little  mace,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  and  fugar  to  yourtafte;  boil  them  to- 
gether, and  ftrain  it  through  a  jelly  bag;  when 
it  is  fine  put  it  in  your  glaffes  for  ufe. 

N.  B. — If  you  have  no  Rhenifh  wine,  white 
wine  will  do. 

To  make  Flummery, 

PUT  one  ounce  of  bitter  and  one  of  ftveet 
almonds  into  a  bafon,  pour  over  them  fome 
boiling  water,  to  make  the  fkins  come  off,  which 
is  called  blanching,  ftrip  off  the  fkins,  and 
throw  the  kernels  into  cold  water,  then  take 
them  out,  and  beat  them  in  a  marble  mortar, 
with  a  little  rofe  water  to  keep  them  from  oil- 
ing, when  they  are  beat,  put  them  into  a  pint 
of  calf's  foot  flock,  let  it  over  the  fire,  and 
fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  with  loaf  fugar,  as  foon 
as  it  boils  ftrain  it  through  a  piece  of  muflin  or 
gaufe,  when  a  little  cold  put  it  into  a  pint  of 
thick  cream,  and  keep  ftirring  it  often  till  it 
grows  thick  and  cold,  wet  your  moulds  in  cold 
water,  and  pour  in  the  flummery,  let  it  Hand 
five  or  fix  hours  at  leaft  before  you  turn  them 
out;  if  you  make  the  flummery  ft  iff,  and  wet 
the  moulds,  it  wii!  turn  out  without  putting  it 
into  warm  water,  for  water  takes  off  the  figures 
of  the  mould,  and  makes  the  flummery  look 
dull. — N.  B.  Be  careful  to  keep  ftirring  it  till 
cold,  or  it  will  run  in  lumps  when  you  turn 
it  out  of  the  mould. 


O  To 


I94  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Colouring  for  Flummery  and 
Jellies. 
TAKE  two  penny-worth  of  cochineal,  brulfe 
it  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  and  put  it  into  half 
a  tea-cupful  of  the  beft  French  brandy,  and  Jet  it 
ftand  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  filter  it  through 
a  fine  cloth,  and  put  in  as  much  as  will  make 
the  jelly  or  flummery  a  fine  pink ;  if  yellow, 
take  a  little  faffron,  and  tie  it  in  a  rag,  diffolve  it 
in  cold  water;  if  green,  take  fome  fpinage,  boil 
it,  take  off  the  froth,  and  mix  it  with  the  jelly  -, 
if  white,  put  in  fome  cream. 

21?  make  a  Fisk-Pond. 
FILL  four  large  fifh  moulds  with  flummery, 
and  fix  fmall  ones,  take  a  china  bowl,  and  put 
in  half  a  pint  of  ft  iff  clear  calPs  foot  jelly,  let  it 
ftand  till  cold,  then  lay  two  of  the  fmall  fifties 
on  the  jelly,  the  right  fide  down,  put  in  half  a 
pint  more  jelly,  let  it  ftand  till  cold,  then  lay 
in  the  four  fmall  fifties  acrofs  one  another,  that 
when  you  turn  the  bowl  upfide  down  the  heads 
and  tails  may  be  feen,  then  almoft  fill  your 
bowl  with  jelly,  and  let  it  ftand  till  cold,  then 
lay  in  the  jelly  four  large  fifties,  and  fill  the  ba- 
fon  quite  full  with  jelly,  and  let  it  ftand  till  the 
next  day;  when  you  want  to  ufe  it,  fet  your 
bowl  to  the  brim  in  hot  water  for  one  minute, 
take  care  that  you  do  not  let  the  water  go  into 
the  bafon,  lay  your  plate  on  the  top  of  the  ba- 
fon,  and  turn  it  upfide  down,  if  you  want  it  for 
the  middle,  turn  it  out  upon  a  falver;  be  furc 
yen  make  your  jelly  very  ftiff  and  clear, 

i  '  2> 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       195 

-To  make  a  Hen's  Nest. 

TAKE  three  or  five  of  the  fmalleft  pullet 
fcggs  you  can  get,  fill  them  with  flummery,  and 
when  they  are  ftiffand  cold  peel  off  the  fhells, 
pare  off  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  very  thin,  and 
boil  them  in  fugar  and  water,  to  take  off  the 
bitterneis,  when  they  are  cold,  cut  them  in 
long  ihreds  to  imitate  ftraws,  then  fill  a  baibn 
one  third  full  of  ftiff  calf's  foot  jelly,  and  let  it 
ftand  till  cold,  then  lay  in  the  fhred  of  the  le- 
mons, in  a  ring  about  two  inches  high  in  the 
middle  of  your  bafon,  drew  a  few  corns  of  fago 
to  look  like  barley,  fill  the  bafon  to  the  height 
of  the  peel,  and  let  it  ftand  till  cold,  then  lay 
your  eggs  of  flummery  in  the  middle  of  the  ring, 
that  the  ftraw  may  be  feen  round,  fill  the  bafoa 
quite  full  of  jelly,  and  let  it  ftand,  and  turn  it 
out  the  fame  way  as  the  fifh-pond. 

To  make  Blanc-mange  xyf  Isinglass. 

EOIL  one  ounce  of  ifinglafs  in  a  quart  of 
water  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  pint,  then  put  in 
the  whites  of  foureggs,  with  two  fpoonfuls  of 
rice^ater*  to  keep  the  eggs  from  poaching,  and 
fugar  to  your  tafte,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly- 
bag,  then  put  to  it  two  ounces  of  fweet  and 
one  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  give  them  a  fcald 
in  your  jelly,  and  put  them  through  a  hair  fieve, 
put  it  in  a  China  bowl*  the  next  day  turn  it 
out,  and  ftick  it  all  over  with  almonds,  blanched 
and  cut  lengthways:  garnifh  with  green  leaves 
©r  flowers, 

O  2  Green 


196  THE   EXPERIENCED 

Green  Blanc-mange  of  Isinglass, 

DISSOLVE  your  ifinglafs,  and  put  to  it  two 
ounces  of  fweet  and  two  ounces  of  bitter  al- 
monds, with  as  much  juice  of  fpinage  as  will 
make  it  green,  and  a  fpoonful  of  French  brandy, 
fet  it  over  a  ftove  fire  till  it  is  almoft  ready  to 
boil,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  gauze  fieve,  when 
it  grows  thick,  put  it  into  a  lemon  mould,  and 
the  next  day  turn  it  out — garnifh  it  with  red 
and  white  flowers. 

Clear  Blanc-mange. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  ftrong  calf's  foot  jelly, 
fkim  off  the  fat  and  drain  it,  beat  the  whites  of 
four  eggs,  and  put  them  to  your  jelly,  fet  it 
over  the  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  boils, 
then  pour  it  into  a  jelly  bag,  and  run  it  through 
ieveral  times  till  it  is  clear,  beat  one  ounce  of 
fweet  almonds,  and  one  of  bitter,  to  a  parte, 
with  a  fpoonful  of  rofe  water  fqueezed  through 
a  cloth,  then  mix  it  with  the  jelly,  and  three 
fpoonfuls  of  very  good  cream,  fet  it  over  the 
fire  again,  and  keep  flirring  it  till  it  is  almoft 
boiling,  then  pour  it  into  a  bowl,  and  ftir  it  very 
often  till  it  is  almoft  cold,  then  wet  your  moulds 
and  fill  them. 

Yellow  Flummery. 

TAKE  two  ounces  of  ifinglafs,  beat  it  and 
open  it,  put  it  into  a  bowl,  and  pour  a  pint  of 
boiling  water  upon  it,  cover  it  up  till  almoft 
cold,  and  add  a  pint  of  white  wine,   the  juice 

of 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  197 
of  two  lemons,  with  the  rind  of  one,  the  yolks 
of  eight  eggs  beat  well,  fweeten.  it  to  your  tafte, 
put  it  in  a  tofling-pan  and  keep  ftirring  it,  when 
it  boils  drain  it  through  a  fine  fieve,  when  al- 
mofl  cold,  put  it  into  cups  and  moulds. 

A  good  Green. 

LAY  an  ounce  of  gambouge  in  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water,  put  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  good 
ftone  blue  in  a  little  water,  when  they  are  both 
diffolved,  mix  them  together,  add  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  more  water,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fine  fugar,  boil  it  a  little,  then  put  it  into  a  galli- 
pot, cover  it  cloie  and  it  will  keep  for  years;  be 
careful  not  to  make  it  too  deep  a  green,  for  a 
very  little  will  do  at  a  time. 

Fruit  in  Jelly. 

PUT  half  a  pint  of  clear  ftiff  calf's  foot  jelly 
into  abafon,  when  it  is  fet  and  ft  iff"  lay  in  three 
fine  ripe  peaches,  and  a  bnuch  of  grapes  with 
the  ftalks  up,  put  a  few  vine  leaves  over  them, 
then  fill  up  your  bowl  with  jelly,  and  let  it  fland 
till  the  next  day;  then  fet  your  bafon  to  the  brim 
in  hot  water,  and  as  foon  as  you  find  it  leaves  the 
bafon,  lay  your  difih  over  it,  and  turn  your  jelly 
carefully  upon  it — garnifh  with  flowers. 

Green  Melon  in  Flummery. 

MAKE  a  little  ftiff  flummery,  with  a  good 
deal  of  bitter  almonds  in  it,  add  to  it  it  as  much 
juice  of  fpinage  as  will  make  it  a  fine  pale  green, 

O  3  \vneu 


I98  THE  EXPERIENCED 

when  it  is  as  thick  as  good  cream  wet  your  me- 
lon mould  and  put  it  in,  then  put  a  pint  of  clear 
calf's  foot  jelly  into  a  large  bafon,  and  let  them 
fland  till  the  next  day,  then  turn  out  your  me- 
lon, and  lay  it  the  right  fide  down  in  the  mid- 
dle* of  your  bafon  of  jelly ;  then  fill  up  your 
bafon  with  jelly  that  is  beginning  to  ktf  let  it 
ftand  all  night,  and  turn  it  out  the  fame  way  as 
the  fruit  in  jelly:  make  a  garland  of  flowers, 
and  put  it  in  your  jelly.' — It  is  a  pretty  difh  for. 
middle  at  fupper,  or  corner  for  a  fecond  courfe 
at  dinner. 

Gilded  Fish  in  Jelly. 

MAKE  a  little  clear  blanc-mahge  as  is  directed 
in  the  receipt,  then  fill  two  large  filh  moulds 
with  it,  and  when  it  is  cold  turn  it  out,  and  gild 
them  with  gold  leaf,  or  ftrew  them  over  with 
gold  and  filver  bran  mixed,  then  lay  them  on  a 
foup  difh,  and  fill  it  with  clear  thin  calf's  foot 
jelly,  it  muft  be  1>  thin  as  they  will  fwim  in  it; 
if  you  have  no  jelly,  Lifbon  wine,  or  any  kind 
of  pale  made  wines  will  do. 

Hen  and  Chickens  in  Jelly. 

MAKE  forne  flummery  with  a  deal  of  fweet 
almonds  in  it,  colour  a  little  of  it  brown  with 
chocolate,  and  put  it  in  a  mould  the  fhape  of  a 
hen;  then  colour  forne  more  flummery  with  the 
yolk  of  a  hard  egg  beat  as  fine  as  poflible-,  leave 
part  of  your  flummery  white,  then  fill  themoulds 
of  Ccvcn.  chickens,  three  with  white  flummery, 
and  three  with  yellow,  and  one  the  colour  of  the 

hen; 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      199 

hen ,  when  they  are  cold  turn  them  into  a  deep 
difh  ;  put  under  and  round  them  lemon  peel, 
boiled  tender  and  cut  like  ftraw,  then  put  a  little 
clear  calf's  foot  jelly  under  them,  to  keep  them 
in  their  places,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  ft  iff,  then 
fill  up  your  difh  with  more  jelly. — They  are  a 
pretty  decoration  for.  a  grand  table 

To  make  a  Transparent  Pudding. 

MAKE  your  calf's  foot  jelly  very  ftiff,  and 
when  it  is  quite  fine  put  a  gill  into  a  china  ba- 
fon,  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  quite  fet;  blanch  a  few- 
Jordan  Almonds,  cut  them  and  a  few  jar  raifins 
lengthways,  cut  a  little  citron  and  candied  lemon 
in  little  thin  flices,  ftick  them  all  over  the  jelly, 
and  throw  in  a  few  currants,  then  pour  more 
jelly  on  till  it  is  an  inch  higher;  when  your  jelly 
is  fet,  ftick  in  your  almonds,  raifins,  citron,  and 
candied  lemon,  with  a  few  currants  ftrewed  in, 
then  more  jelly  as  before,  then  more  almonds, 
raifins,  citron,  and  lemon  in  layers,  till  your 
bafon  is  full;  let  it  ftand  all  night,  and  t$fn  it 
out  the  fame  way  as  the  fifh-pond. 

To  make  a  Desert  Island, 

TAKE  a  lump  of  pafte,  and  form  it  into  a 
rock  three  inches  broad  at  the  top,  colour  it,  and 
fet  it  in  the  middle  of  a  deep  China  difh,  and  fet 
a  caft  figure  on  it,  with  a  crow  on  its  head,  and 
a  knot  of  rock  candy  at  the  feet;  then  make  a 
roll  of  pafte  an  inch  thick,  and  ftick  it  on  the 
inner  edge  of  the  difh,  two  parts  round,  and  cut 
eight  pieces  of  eringo  roots,  about  three  inches 

O  4  long, 


200  THE   EXPERIENCED 

long,  and  fix  them  upright  to  the  roll  of  parte  on 
the  edge;  make  gravel  walks  of  (hot  comfits, 
from  the  middle  of  the  end  of  the  dim,  and  fet 
fmall  figures  in  them,  roll  out  fome  parte,  and 
cut  it  open  like  Chinefe  rails ;  bake  it,  and  fix  it 
on  either  fide  of  one  of  the  gravel  walks  with 
gum,  have  ready  a  web  of  fpun  fugar,  and  fet 
it  on  the  pilhrs  of  eringo  root,  and  cut  part  of 
the  web  off,  to  form  an  entrance  where  the 
Chinefe  rails  are.-^-It  is  a  pretty  middle  difh 
for  a  fecond  courfe  at  a  grand  table,  or  a  wedding 
fupper,  only  fet  two  crowned  figures  on  the 
mount  inrtead  of  one, 

.  r 
j 

To  make  a  Floating  Island. 

GRATE  the  yellow  rind  of  a  large  lemon 
into  a  quart  of  cream,  put  in  a  large  glafs  of 
Madeira  wine,  make  it  pretty  fweet  with  loaf 
fugar,  mill  it  with  a  chocolate  mill  to  a  ftrong 
froth,  take  it  off  as  it  rifes,  then  lay  it  upon  a  fieve 
to  drain  all  night,  then  take  a  deep  glafs  dim, 
and  lay  in  your  froth,  with  a  Naples  bifcuit  in 
the  middle  of  it,  then  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
to  a  ftrong  froth,  and  roll  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in 
it  to  imitate  fnow,  ftick  it  in  the  Naples  bifcuit, 
then  lay  all  over  your  froth  currant  jelly  cut  in 
very  thin  flices,  pour  over  it  very  fine  ftrong 
calf's  foot  jelly,  when  it  grows  thick  lay  it  all 
over,  till  it  looks  like  a  glafs,  and  your  difh  is 
full  to  the  brim  ;  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  quite  cold 
and  ftiff,  then  lay  on  rock  candied  fwcet-meats 
upon  the  top  of  your  jelly,  and  (heep  and  fwans 
to  pick  at  the  myrtle;  flick  green  iprigs  in  two 

or 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      201 

or  three  places  on  the  top  of  your  jelly,  amongft 
your  fhapes  ;  it  looks  very  pretty  in  the  middle 

of  a  table  for  fupper. You  muft  not  put  the 

fhapes  on  the  jelly  till  you  are  going  to  lend  it 
to  the  table. 

To  make  a  Floating  Island  afecondWay. 

TAKE  calf's  foot  jelly  that  is  fet,  break  it  a 
little,  but  not  too  much,  for  it  will  make  it 
frothy,  and  prevent  it  from  looking  clear,  have 
ready  a  middle  fized  turnep,  and  rub  it  over  with 
gum  water,  or  the  white  of  an  egg,  then  ftrew 
it  thick  over  with  green  (hot  comfits,  and  flick 
on  the  top  of  it  a  fprig  of  myrtle,  or  any  other 
pretty  green  lprig,  then  put  your  broken  jelly 
round  it,  let  iheep  or  fwans  upon  your  jelly, 
with  either  a  green  leaf,  or  a  knot  of  apple  pafte 
under  them*  to  keep  the  jelly  from  diflblving  ; 
there  are  lherp  <,nd  fwans  made  for  that  purpofe, 
you  may  put  in  fnakes,  or  any  wild  animals  of 
the  fame  fort. 

¥0  make  a  Rocky  Island. 

MAKE  a  little  ftiff  flummery,  and  put  it  into 
five  fifli  moulds,  wet  them  before  you  put  it  in, 
when  it  is  ftiff,  turn  it  out,  and  gild  them  with 
gold  leaf,  then  take  a  deep  China  dim,  fill  it 
near  full  of  clear  calf's  foot  jelly,  and  let  it 
ftand  till  it  is  fet,  then  lay  on  your  fillies,  and  a 
few  flices  of  red  currant  jelly  cut  very  thin 
round  them,  then  rafp  a  fmall  French  roll,  and 
rub  it  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  itrew 

all 


502  THE   EXPERIENCED 

all  over  it  filver  bran  and  glitter  mixed  together, 
ftick  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in  it,  and  put  it  into  the 
middle  of  your  di£h,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg 
to  a  very  high  froth,  then  hang  it  on  your  fprig 
of  myrtle  like  fnovv,  and  fill  your  difh  to  the 
brim  with  clear  jelly ;  when  you  fend  it  to  table, 
put  lambs  and  ducks  upon  your  jelly,  with  either 
green  leaves  or  mofs  under  them,  with  their 
heads  towards  the  myrtle. 

To  make  Moonshine. 

TAKE  the  fhapes  of  half  a  moon,  and  five 
or  feven  ftars,  wet  them,  and  fill  them  with  flum- 
mery, let  them  ftand  till  they  are  cold,  then  turn 
them  into  a  deep  China  difh,  and  pour  lemon 
cream  round  them,  made  thus :  Take  a  pint  of 
fpring  water,  put  to  it  the  juice  of  three  lemons, 
and  the  yellow  rind  of  one  lemon,  the  whites 
of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  and  four  ounces  of  loaf 
fugar,  then  let  it  over  a  flow  fire,  and  ftir  it  one 
way  till  it  looks  white  and  thick,  if  you  let  it 
boil  it  will  curdle,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair 
fieve,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold,  beat  the  yolks 
of  five  eggs,  mix  them  with  your  whites,  fet 
them  over  the  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  is 
almoft  ready  to  boil,  then  pour  it  into  a  bafon  ; 
when  it  is  cold  pour  it  among  your  moon  and 
ftars  :  garniih  with  flowers. — It  is  a  proper  difh 
for  a  fecond  courfe,  either  for  dinner  or  1  upper. 

To  make  Moon  and  Stars  in  Jelly. 

TAKE  a  deep  China  diih,  turn  the  mould  of 
a  half  moon,  and  feven  ftars,   with  the  bottom 

fide 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       203 

fide  upward  in  the  dim,  lay  a  weight  upon  every 
mould  to  keep  them  down,  then  make  fome 
flummery,  and  fill  your  dilli  with  it;  when  it  is 
cold  and  ftiff,  take  your,  moulds  carefully  out, 
and  fill  the  vacancy  with  clear  calf's  foot  jelly; 
you  may  colour  your  flummery  with  cochineal 
and  chocolate  to  make  it  look  like  the  fky,  and 
your  moon  and  ftars  will  (how  more  clear :  gar- 
rufh  with  rock  candy  fweet  meats. — It  is  a  pret- 
ty corner  dim,  or  a  proper  decoration  for  a 
grand  table, 

To  make  Eggs  and  Bacon  in  Flummery, 

TAKE  a  pint  of  (lift  flummery,  and  make 
part  of  it  a  pretty  pink  colour  with  the  colour- 
ing for  the  flummery,  dip  a  potting-pot  in  cold 
water,  and  pour  in  red  flummery  the  thicknefs 
of  a  crown  Diece,  then  the  fame  of  white  flum- 
mery,  and  another  of  red,  and  twice  the  thick- 
riefs  of  white  flummery  at  the  top  ;  one  layer 
muft  be  ft  iff  and  cold  before  you  pour  on  ano- 
ther, then  take  five  tea-cups,  and  put  a  large 
fpoohful  of  white  flummery  into  each  tea-cup, 
and  let  them  ftand  all  night,  then  turn  your 
flummery  out  of  your  potting  pots  on  the  back 
of  a  plate,  with  cold  water,  cut  your  flum- 
mery into  thin  flices;  and  lay  it  on  a  China 
dim,  then  turn  your  flummery  out  of  the  cups 
on  the  diih,  and  take  a  bit  out  of  the  top  of 
every  one,  and  lay  in  half  a  preferved  apri- 
cot; it  will  confine  the  fyrup  from  difcolouring 
{he  flummery,  and  make  it  like  the  yolk  of  a 

poached 


204  THE    EXPERIENCED 

poached  egg;  gamifh  with  flowers. — It  is  a  pret- 
ty corner  difh  for  dinner,  or  fide  for  fupper* 

Solomon's  Temple  in  Flummery. 

MAKE  a  quart  of  ftiff  flummery,  divide  it 
it  into  three  parts,  make  one  part  a  pretty  thick 
colour,  with  a  little  cochineal  bruifed  fine,  and 
fteeped  in  French  brandy,  fcrape  one  ounce  of 
chocolate  very  fine,  diflblve  it  in  a  little  ftrong 
coffee,  and  mix  it  with  another  part  of  your 
flummery,  to  make  it  a  light  ftone  colour,  the 
Jaft  part  muft  be  white,  then  whet  your  temple 
mould,  and  fix  it  in  a  pot  to  ftand  even,  then  fill 
the  top  of  the  temple  with  red  flummery  for  the 
fteps,  and  the  four  points  with  white,  then  fill 
it  up  with  chocolate  flummery;  let  it  ftand  till 
the  next  day,  then  loofen  it  round  with  a  pin, 
andfhakeitloofe  very  gently,  but  do  not  dip  your 
mould  in  warm  water,  it  will  take  off  the  ^lofs, 
and  fpoil  the  colour  ;  when  you  turn  it  out  flick 
a  imall  fprig  or  a  flower  flalk,  down  from  the 
top  of  every  point,  it  will  ftrengthen  them,  and 
make  it  look  pretty,  lay  round  it  rock  candy 
fweet-meats. — It  is  proper  for  a  corner  difli  for 
a  large  table. 

To  make  Oatmeal  Flummery. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  bruifed  groats,  and  put  three 
pints  of  fair  water  to  them  early  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  let  it  ftand  till  noon,  then  pour  all  the 
water  off,  and  put  in  the  fame  quantity  of  water 
as  before  upon  them,  ftir  it  well,  and  let  it  Hand 
till  four  o'clock,  then  run  it  through  a  fieve  or 

cloth, 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      205 

cloth,  then  boil  it,  and  keep  fiirring  it  all  the 
,  while,  put  in  a  fpoonful  of  water  now  and  then 
as  it  boils,  when  it  begins  to  thicken  drop  a 
little  on  a  plate  ;  when  it  leaves  the  plate  it  i$ 
enough  :  put  it  in  glaffes  to  turn  out. 

To  make  Cribbage  Cards  in  Flummery. 

FILL  five  fquare  tins  the  fize  of  a  card  with 
very  ftirT  flummery,  when  you  turn  them  out 
have  ready  a  little  cochineal  diflblved  in  brandy, 
and  ftrain  it  through  a  muflin  rag,  then  take  a 
camel's  hair  pencil,  and  make  hearts  and  dia- 
monds with  your  cochineal,  then  rub  a  little 
cochineal  with  a  little  eating  oil  upon  a  marble 
flab  till  it  is  very  fine  and  bright,  then  make 
clubs  and  fpades ;  pour  a  little  Lilbon  wine  into 
the  difh,  and  fend  it  up. 

To  make  a  Dish  of  Snow. 

TAKE  twelve  large  apples,  put  them  in  cold 
water,  and  fet  them  over  a  very  flow  fire,  and 
when  they  are  foft  pour  them  upon  a  hair  fieve, 
take  off  the  fkin,  and  put  the  pulp  into  a  bafon, 
then  beat  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs  into  a  very 
ftrong  froth,  beat  and  fift  half  a  pound  of  double 
refined  fugar,  and  ftrew  it  into  the  eggs,  beat  the 
palp  of  your  apples  to  a  firong  froth,  then  beat 
them  all  together  till  they  are  like  a  ftiff  fnow, 
then  lay  it  upon  a  China  dim,  and  heap  it  up  as 
high  as  you  can,  and  fet  round  it  green  knots  of 
pafte  in  imitation  of  Chinefe  rails,  flick  a  fprig 
of  myrtle  in  the  middle  of  the  difh,  and  ferve  it 
up.— It  is  a  pretty  corner  difh  for  a  large  table. 

To 


2o6  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Black  Caps. 

TAKE  fix  large  apples,  and  cut  a  flice  off  this 
bloffom  end,  put  them  in  a  tin,  and  fet  them  in 
a  quick  oven  till  they  are  brown,  then  wet  them 
with  role  water,  and  grate  a  little  fugar  over 
them,  and  fet  them  in  the  oven  again  till  they 
look  bright,  and  very  black,  then  take  them  out* 
and  put  them  into  a  deep  China  dim  or  plate* 
and  pour  round  them  thick  cream  cuftard,  or 
white  wine  and  fugar. 

To  make  Green  Caps. 

TAKE  codlings  juft  before  they  are  ripe* 
green  them  as  you  would  for  preferving,  then  rub 
them  over  with  a  little  oiled  butter,  grate  double^ 
refined  fugar  over  them,  and  let  them  in  the 
oven  till  they  look  bright,  and  fparkle  like  froft, 
then  take  them  out,  and  put  them  into  a  deep 
China  difh,  make  a  very  fine  cuftard,  and  pour 
it  round  them  ;  ftick  Angle  flowers  in  every 
apple  and  ferve  them  up. — It  is  a  pretty  corner 
dim  for  either  dinner  or  fupper. 

Tojlew  Pears. 

PARE  the  largeft  ftewing  pears,  and  ftick  a 
clove  in  the  bloffom  end,  then  put  them  in  a  well 
tinned  faucepan,  with  a  new  pewter  fpoon  in 
the  middle,  fill  it  with  hard  water,  and  fet  it 
over  a  flow  fire  for  three  or  four  hours,  till  youf 
pears  are  foft,  and  the  water  reduced  to  a  fmall 
quantity,  then  put  in  as  much  loaf  fugar  as  will 

make 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      207 

make  it  a  thick  fyrup,  and  give  the  pears  a  boil 
in  it,  then  cut  fome  lemon  peel  like  draws  and 
hang  them  about  your  pears,  and  ferve  them  up 
with  the  fyrup  in  a  deep  diih. 

To  make  Lemon  Syllabubs. 

TO  a  pint  of  cream  put  a  pound  of  double 
fefined  fugar,  the  juice  of  feven  lemons,  grate 
the  rinds  of  two  lemons  into  a  pint  of  whit© 
wane,  and  half  a  pint  of  fack,  then  put  them 
all  into  a  deep  pot,  and  whifk  them  for  half  an 
hour,  put  it  into  glafTes  the  night  before  you 
want  it  :  it  is  better  for  {landing  two  or  three 
days,  but  it  will  keep  a  week  if  required. 

To  make  Lemon   Syllabubs  afecond  Way., 

PUT  a  pint  of  cream  to  a  pint  of  white  wine, 
then  rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar  upon 
the  out  rind  of  two  lemons,  till  you  have  got 
out  all  the  effence,  then  put  the  fugar  to  the 
cream,  and  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  both  lemons, 
let  it  ftand  for  two  hours,  then  mill  them  with 
a  chocolate  mill,  to  raife  the' froth,  and  take  it 
off  with  a  fpoon  as  it  rffes,  or  it  will  make  it 
heavy,  lay  it  upon  a  hair  fieve  to  drain,  then  fill 
your  glafTes  with  the  remainder,  and  lay  on  the 
froth  as  high  as  you  can,  let  them  ftand  all  night 
and  they  will  be  clear  at  the  bottom ;  fend  them 
to  the  table  upon  a  falver,  with  jellies. 

To  make  Solid   Syllabubs. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  rich  cream,  and  put  in  a 
pint  of  wrhite  wine,  the  juice  cf  four  lemons, 

mi 


368  THE   EXPERIENCED 

and  fugar  to  your  tafte,  whip  it  up  very  well* 
and  take  off  the  froth  as  it  rifes,  put  it  upon  a 
hair  fieve,  and  let  it  ftand  till  the  next  day  in  a 
cool  place,  fill  your  glaffes  better  than  half  full 
with  the  thin,  then  put  on  the  froth,  and  heap 
it  as  high  as  you  can  -,  the  bottom  will  look  clear, 
and  keep  feveral  days. 

To  make  Wm?  Syllabubs. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  thin  cream,  rub  a  lump  of 
loaf  fugar  on  the  outfide  of  the  lemon,  and  fweeten 
it  to  your  tafte,  then  put  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  glafs  of  Madeira  wine,  or  French  brandy, 
mill  it  to  a  froth  with  a  chocolate  mil),  and  take 
it  off  as  it  rifes,  and  lay  it  upon  a  hair  fieve,  then 
fill  one  half  of  your  poffet  glaffes  a  little  more 
thanhalf  full  with  white  wine,  and  the  other  half 
of  your  glaffes  a  little  more  than  half  full  of  red 
wine,  then  lay  on  your  froth  as  high  as  you  can, 
but  obferve  that  it  is  well  drained  on  your  fieve, 
or  it  will  mix  with  your  wine,  and  fpoil  your 
fyllabubs.       * 

To  make  a  Syllabub  under  the  Cow. 

PUT  a  bottle  of  ftrong  beer  and  a  pint  of 
cyder  into  a  punch-bowl,  grate  in  a  fmall  nut- 
meg, and  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte;  then  milk  a9 
much  milk  from  the  cow  as  will  make  a  ftrong 
froth,  and  the  ale  look  clear,  let  it  ftand  an  hour, 
then  ftrew  over  it  a  few  currants,  well  wafhed, 
picked,  and  plumped  before  the  fire,  then  fend 
it  to  the  table. 

a  CHAP. 


English  house-keeper.     209 

CHAP.     VII. 

Obfer  vat  ions  upon  Preserving. 

WHEN   you  make  any  kind  of  jelly,  take 
care  you  do  not  let  any  of  the  feeds  from 
the  fruit  fall  into  your  jelly,  nor  fqueeze  it  too 
near,  for  that  will  prevent  your  jelly  from  being 
fo  clear;  pound  your  fugar,  and  let  it  diflblve  in 
the  fyrup  before  you  fet  it  on  the  fire,  it  makes 
the  fcum  rife  well,  and  the  jelly  a  better  colour  : 
it  is  a  great  fault  to  boil  any  kind  of  jellies   too 
high,  it  makes  them  of  a  dark  colour  ;  you  muft 
never  keep  green  fweetmeats  in  the  firft  fyrup 
longer  than   the   receipt  direds,  left  you   fpoil 
their  colour;  vou  muft  take  the  fame  care  with 
the  oranges  and  lemons ;  as  to  cherries,  damfons, 
and  molt  fort  of  ftone  fruit,  put  over  them  either 
mutton  fuet  rendered,  or  a  board  to  keep  them 
down,  or  they  will  rife  out  of  the  fyrup  and  fpoil 
the  whole  jar,  by  giving  them  a  four  bad  tafte; 
obferve  to  keep  all  wet  fweetmeats  in  a  dry  cool 
place,  for  a  wet  damp  place   will  make  them 
mould,  and  a  hot  place  will  dry  up  the  virtue, 
and  make  them  candy ;  the  belt  dire&ion  I  can 
give,  is  to  dip  writing  paper  in  brandy,  and  lay 
it  clofe  to  your  fweetmeats,  tie  them  well  down 
with  white  paper,  and  two  folds  of  thick  tap- 
paper  to  keep  out  the  air,  for  nothing  can  be  a 
greater  fault  than  bad  tying  down,  and  leaving 
the  pots  open. 


P  ft 


2ie  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Orange  Jelly. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  hartfhorn  (havings, 
and  two  quarts  of  fpring  water,  let  it  boil  till  it 
be  reduced  to  a  quart,  pour  it  clear  off,  let  it 
ftand  till  it  is  cold,  then  take  half  a  pint  of  fpring 
water,  and  the  rind  of  three  oranges  pared  very- 
thin,  and  the  juice  of  fix,  let  them  (land  all 
night,  ftrain  them  through  a  fine  hair  fieve,  melt 
the  jelly  and  pour  the  orange  liquor  to  it,  fweet- 
en  it  to  your  tafte  with  double  refined  fugar,  put 
to  it  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  four  or  five  cloves, 
half  a  fmall  nutmeg,  and  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  froth,  mix  it 
well  with  your  jelly,  fet  it  over  a  clear  fire, 
boil  it  three  or  four  minutes,  run  it  through  your 
jelly  bags  feveral  times  till  it  is  clear,  and  when 
you  pour  it  into  your  bag,  take  great  care  you  do 
not  (hake  it. 

To  make  Hartshorn  Jelly. 

PUT  two  quarts  of  water  into  a  clean  pan, 
with  half  a  pound  of  hartfhorn  (havings,  let  it 
fimmer  till  near  one  half  is  reduced,  (train  it  off", 
then  put  in  the  peel  of  four  oranges,  and  two 
lemons  pared  very  thin,  boil  them  five  minutes, 
put  to  it  the  juice  of  the  before-mentioned  le- 
mons and  oranges,  with  about  ten  ounces  of 
double  refined  fugar,  beat  the  vWntes  of  fix  eggs 
to  a  froth,  mix  them  carefully  with  your  jelly, 
that  you  do  not  poach  the  eggs,  juft  let  it  boil 
up,-  and  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag  till  it  is  clear.- 

n 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       211 

To  make  Red  Currant  Jelly, 

GATHER  your  currants  when  they  are  dry 
and  full  ripe,  ftrip  them  off  the  (talks,  put  them 
in  a  large  ftew-pot,  tie  the  paper  over  them,  and 
let  them  ftarid  an  hour  in  a   cool  oven,  ftrain 
them  through  a  cloth,  and  to  every  quart  of  juice 
add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf  fugar,  broken  in 
fmall  lumps,  ftir  it  gently  over  a  clear  fire  till 
your   fugar  is  melted,  fkim  it  well,  let  it  boil         y 
pretty   quick  twenty  minutes,~~pour  it  hot  into'"2  ^^^ 
your  pots ;  if  you  let  it  ftand  it  will  break  the  -*^~^^ 
jelly,  it  will  not  fet-fo  well  as  when  it  is  hot ; 
put  brandy  papers  over  them,  and  keep  them  in 
a  dry  place  for  ufe. 

N.  £>.    You  may  make  jelly  of  half  red  and 
half  white  currants  the  fame  way. 

To  7nake  Black  Currant  Jelly. 

GET  your  currants  when  they  are  ripe  and 
dry,  pick  them  off  the  ftalks,  and  put  them  in 
a  large  ftew-pot  -,  to  every  ten  quarts  of  curries 
put  a  quart  of  water,  tie  a  paper  over  chem,  and 
let  them  in  a  cool  ovcii  for  two  hours,  then 
fquee^e  them  through  a  very  thin  cloth  ;to  every 
quart  of  juice  add  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf 
fugar  broken  in  fmall  pieces,  ftir  it  gently  till 
the  fugar  is  melted  -9  when  it  boils  fkirn  it  well> 
let  it  boil  pretty  quick  for  half  an  hour  over  a 
clear  fire,  then  pour  it  into  pots  ;  put  brandy 
papers  over  them,  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 

P  2  T0 


212        THE  EXPERIENCED 


To  make  Apricot  Jam. 

PARE  the  ripeft  apricots  you  can  get,  cut 
them  thin,  infufe  them  in  an  earthen  pan  till 
they  are  tender  and  dry;  then  to  every  pound 
and  a  half  of  apricots  put  a  pound  of  double  re- 
fined fugar,  and  three  fpoonfuls  of  water ;  boil 
your  fugar  to  a  candy  height,  then  put  it  upon 
your  apricots,  ilir  them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they 
look  clear  and  thick,  but  do  not  let  them  boil, 
only  fimmer;  put  them  in  glafles  for  ufe. 

To  make  Red  Raspberry  Jam. 

GATHER  your  rafpberries  when  they  arc 
ripe  and  dry,  pick  them  very  carefully  from  the 
ftalks  and  dead  ones,  cruih  them  in  a  bowl  with 
a  filver  or  wooden  fpoon,  pewter  is  apt  to  turn 
them  a  purple  colour  ;  as  foon  as  you  have 
crufhed  them,  ftrew  in  their  own  weight  of  loaf 
fugar,  and  half  their  weight  of  currant  juice, 
baked  and  drained  as  for  jelly,  then  fet  them 
over  a  clear  flow  fire,  boil  them  half  an  hour, 
fkim  them  well,  and  keep  ftirring  them  at  the 
time,  then  put  them  into  pots  or  glafTe6  with 
brandy  papers  over  them  and  keep  them  for 
ufCi — N.  #.  As  foon  as  you  have  got  your  ber- 
ries, ftrew  in  your  fugar,  do  not  let  them  ftand 
long  before  you  boil  them ;  it  will  preferve 
their  flavour. 


r# 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      213 

To  make  White  Raspberry  Jam. 

GET  your  rafpberries  dry  and  full  ripe,  crufh 
them  fine,  and  ftrew  in  their  own  weight  of  loaf 
fugar,  and  half  their  weight  of  the  juice  of 
white  currants,  boil  them  half  an  hour  over  a 
clear  flow  fire,  fkim  them  well,  and  put  them 
into  pots  or  glaffes,  tie  them  down  with  brandy 
papers,  and  keep  them  dry  for  ufe. — N.  B.  Strew 
in  your  fugar  as  in  the  red  rafpberry  jam. 

To  make  Red  Strawberry  Jam. 

GATHER  the  fcarlet  ftrawberries  very  ripe.* 
bruife  them  very  fine,  and  put  to  them  a  little 
juice  of  ftrawberries,  beat  and  fift  their  weight  in 
fugar,  ftrew  it  among  them,  and  put  them  in  the 
preferving  pan,  fet  them  over  a  clear  flow  fire, 
fkim  them,  and  boil  them  twenty  minutes,  then 
put  them  in  pots  or  glaffes  for  ufe. 

To  make  Green  Gooseberry  Jam. 

TAKE  the  green  walnut  goofeberries  when 
they  are  full  grown,  but  not  ripe,  cut  them  in 
two  and  pick  out  the  feeds,  then  put  them  in  a 
pan  of  water,  green  them  as  you  do  the  goofeber- 
ries, in  imitation  of  hops,  and  lay  them  on  a 
fieve  to  drain,  then  beat  them  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, with  their  weight  in  fugar,  then  take  a  quart 
of  goofeberries,  boil  them  to  maih  in  a  quart 
of  water,  then  fqueeze  them,  and  to  every  pint 
of  liquor  put  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  fugar,  boil 
and  fkim  it,  then  put  in  you   green  goofeberries, 

P  2  boil 


214        THE   EXPERIENCED 

boil  them  till  the)/  are  very  thick,  clear,  and  a 

pretty  green,  then  put  them  in  glaffes  for  ufe. 

To  make  Black  Currant  Jam. 

GET  your  black  currants  when  they  are  full 
ripe,  pick  them  clear  from  the  (talks,  and  bruife 
them  in  a  bowl  with  a  wooden  mallet,  to  every 
two  pounds  of  currants  put  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  loaf  fugar  beat  fine,  put  them  into  a  preferv- 
ing  pan,  boil  them  full  half  an  hour/fkim  it 
and  ilir  it  all  the  time,  then  put  it  in  the  pots, 
and  keep  it  for  ufe. 

To  prefers e  Red  Currants  in  Bunches. 

STONE  your  currants,  and  tie  fix  or  {even 
bunches  together  with  a  thread  to  a  piece  of  fplit 
deal,  about  the  length  of  your  finger,  weigh  the 
currants,  and  put  their  weight  of  double  refined 
fugar  in  your  preferving  pan,  with  a  little  water, 
and  boil  it  till  the  fugar  flies,  then  put  the  cur- 
rants in,  and  iuftgive  them  a  boil  up,  and  cover 
them  till  next  day,  then  take  them  out,  and 
either  dry  them  or  put  them  in  glaffes,  with  the 
fyrup  boiled  up  with  a  little  of  thejuice  of  red 
currants ;  put  brandy  paper  over  them,  and  tie 
them  clofe  down  with  another  paper,  and  kt 
them  in  a  dry  place.  < 

To  prefer ve  White  Currants  in  Bunches. 

STONE   your    currants,    and   tie    them  in 

bunches  as  beiore,and  put  them  in  the  prefcrvi ng- 

pan 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      215 

pan  with  their  weight  of  double  refined  fugar, 
beat  and  fifted  fine,  let  them  ftand  all  night,, 
then  take  fome  pippens,  pare,  core,  and  boil 
them,  but  do  not  ftir  the  apples,  only  prefs  them 
down  with  the  back  of  your  fpoon,  when  the 
water  is  ftrong  of  the  apple,  add  to  it  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  ftrain  it  through  a  jelly  bag  till  it 
runs  quite  clear,  to  every  pint  of  your  liquor 
put  a  pound  of  double  refined  fugar,  b.oil  it  up 
to  a  ftrong  jelly,  put  it  to  your  currants,  and 
boil  them  till  they  look  clear,  cover  them  in  the 
preferving-pan  with  paper  till  they  are  almoft 
cold,  then  put  a  bunch  of  currants  in  your  glaffes, 
and  fill  it  up  with  jelly ;  when  they  are  cold, 
wet  papers  in  brandy,  and  lay  over  them,  tie 
another  on,  and  fet  them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  prefer -ve  CuRRANTsyjr  Tarts. 

GET  your  currants  when  they  are  dry,  and 
pick  them  ;  to  every  pound  and  a  quarter  of  cur- 
rants, put  a  pound  of  fugar  into  a  preferving-pan, 
with  as  much  juice  of  currants  as  will  diffolve 
it,  when  it  boils  fkim  it,  and  put  in  your  cur- 
rants, and  boil  them  till  they  are  clear ;  put 
them  into  ajar,  lay  brandy  paper  over,  tie  them 
down,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  prefer  ve  Cucumbers. 

TAKE  fmall  cucumbers  and  large  ones  that 
will  cut  into  quarters,  the  greeneft  and  moft  free 
from  feeds  you  can  get,  put  them  in  a  ftrong 
fait  and  water,  inaftraitmouth  jar,  with  a  cab- 

P  4  bage 


2i6  THE  EXPERIENCED 
bage  leaf  to  keep  them  down,  tie  a  paper  over 
them,  fet  them  in  a  warm  place  till  they  arc 
yellow,  wafh  them  out,  and  let  them  over  the 
fire  in  frefh  water,  with  a  little  fait  in,  and  a 
frefh  cabbage  leaf  over  them,  cover  the  pan  very 
clofe,  hut  take  care  they  do  not  boil ;  if  they  are 
not  a  fine  green,  change  your  water  (and  it  will 
help  them)  and  make  them  hot,  and  cover  them 
as  before ;  when  they  are  a  good  green,  take 
them  off  the  fire,  let  them  ftand  till  they  are 
cold,  then  cut  the  large  ones  in  quarters,  take 
out  the  feeds  and  foft  part,  then  put  them  in 
cold  water,  and  let  them  (land  two  days,  but 
change  the  water  twice  each  day  to  take  out  the 
fait,  take  a  pound  of  fingle  refined  fugar,  and 
half  a  pint  of  water,  fet  it  over  the  fire;  when 
you  have  fkimmed  it  clear,  put  in  the  rind  of  a 
lemon,  one  ounce  of  ginger,  with  the  outfide 
fcraped  off:  when  your  fyrup  is  pretty  thick, 
take  it  off,  and  when  it  is  cold,  wipe  the  cu- 
cumbers dry,  and  put  them  in,  boil  the  fyrup 
once  in  two  or  three  days  for  three  weeks,  and 
ftrengthen  the  fyrup,  if  required,  for  the  great- 
eft  danger    of  fpoiling  them  is  at  firft The 

fyrup   is    to  be  quite  cold  when  you  put  it  to 
your  cucumbers, 

STi  prefer ve  Grapes  in  Brandy. 
TAKE  fome  clofe  bunches  of  grapes,  but 
not  too  ripe,  either  red  or  white,  put  them  into 
ajar,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  or  fugar-candy, 
and  fill  the  jar  with  common  brandy,  tie  it  clofe 
with  a  bladder,  and  fet  them  in  a  dry  place. 
Morello  cherries  are  done  the  fame  wav. 

To 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     217 

To  preferve  Kentish  cr  Golden   Pippins, 

BOIL  the  rind  of  an  orange  very  tender,  then 
Jay  it  in  water  for  two  or  three  days,  take  a  quart 
of  golden  pippins,  pare,  core,  quarter,  and  boil 
them  to  a  flrong  jelly,  and  run  it  through  a  jelly 
bag,  then  take  twelve  pippins,  pare  them  and 
fcrape  out  the  cores ;  put  two  pounds  of  loaf 
fugar  into  a  ftew-pan  with  near  a  pint  of  water, 
when  it  boils  fkim  it,  and  put  in  your  pippins, 
with  the  orange  rind  in  thin  dices,  let  them  boil 
fan;  till  the  fugar  is  very  thick  and  will  almoft 
candy,  then  put  in  a  pint  of  the  pippin  jelly, 
boil  them  faft  till  the  jelly  is  clear,  then  fqueeze 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,'  give  it  one  boil,  and 
put  them  into  pots  or  glafles  with  the  orange 
peel. 

To  preferve  Green  Codlings  that  will  keep 
all  the  Tear. 

TAKE  codlings  about  the  fize  of  a  walnut, 
with  the  flalks  and  a  leaf  or  two  on,  put  a  hand- 
ful of  vine  leaves  into  a  brafs  pan  of  fpring  wa- 
ter, then  a  lay  of  codlings,  then  vine  leaves,  do 
fo  till  the  pan  is  full,  cover  it  clofe  that  no 
fleam  can  get  out,  fet  it  on  a  flow  fire ;  when 
they  are  foft  take  off  the  fkins  with  a  penknife, 
then  put  them  in  the  fame  water  with  the  vine 
leaves;  it  muft  be  quite  cold  or  it  will  be  apt 
to  crack  them,  put  a  little  roach  allum,  and  let 
them  over  a  very  flow  fire  till  they  are  green 
(which  will  be  in  three  or  four  hours)  then  take 

thern 


2iS  THE    EXPERIENCED 

them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain.- — 
Make  a  good  fyrup,  and  give  them  a  gentle  boil 
once  a  day  for  three  days,  then  put  them  in 
imall  jars ;  put  brandy  paper  over  t,hem,  and 
keep  them  for  uie* 

To preferve  Green  Apricots. 

GATHER  your  apricots  before  the  ftones 
are  hard,  put  them  into  a  pan  of  hard  water, 
with  plenty  of  vine  leaves,  fet  them  over  a  flow 
fire  till  they  are  quite  yellow,  then  take  them  out 
and  rub  them  with  a  flannel  and  fait  to  take  off 
the  lint,  put  them  into  the  pan  to  the  fame  water 
and  leaves,  cover  them  clofe,  fet  them  a  great 
diftance  from  the  fire  till  they  are  a  fine  light 
green, then  take  them  carefully  up,pick  out  all  the 
bad  coloured  and  broken  ones,  boil  the  beft 
gently  for  two  or  three  times  in  a  thin  fyrup,  let 
them  be  quite  cold  every  time;  when  they  look 
plump  and  clear,  make  a  fyrup  of  double  refined 
ibgar,  but  not  too  thick,  give  your  apricots  a 
gentle  boil  in  it,  then  put  them  into  pots  or 
giafTes,  dip  paper  in  brandy,  lay  it  over  them, 
and  keep  them  for  ufe,  then  take  all  the  broken 
and  bad  coloured  ones  and  boil  them  in  the  firft 
fyrup  for  tarts. 

To  preferve  Gooseberries  green. 

TAKE  green  walnut  goofeberries  when  they 
are  full  grown,  and  takeout  the  feeds,  put  them 
in  cold  water,  cover  them  clofe  with  vine  leaves, 
and  fet  them  over  a  flow  fire  ;  when  they  are  hot 

take 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       219 

take  them  off,  and  let  them  ftand,  and  when 
they  are  cold  fet  them  on  again  till  they  are 
pretty  green,  then  put  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain, 
and  have  ready  a  fyrup  made  of  a  poundof  double 
refined  fugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  fpring  water; 
the  fyrup  is  to  be  cold  when  the  goofeberries  are 
put  in,    ?jm  I  till  they  are  clear,  then 

let  diem  by  for  a  day  or  two,  then  give  them 
two  or  hree  fcalds,  and  then  put  them  into  pots, 
or  glaffes  for  ufe. 

To p refer -ve  Green  Gooseberries /#  Imitation 
of  Hops. 

TAKE  the  largeft  green  walnut  goofeberries 
you  can  get,  cut  them  at   the  ftalk  end  in  four 
quarters,  leave  them  whole  at  the  bloifom  end, 
then  take  out  all  the  feeds,   and  put  five  or  fix 
one  in  another,  take  a  needleful  of  ftrong  thread, 
with  a  large  knot   at  the  end,    run  the  kneedle 
through  the  bunch  of  goofeberries,  and  tieaknot 
to  fatten   them   together   (they  reiemble   hops) 
and  put  cold  fpring  water  in  your  pan,   a  large 
handful  of  vine  leaves  in  the  bottom,  and  three 
or  four  lays  of  goofeberries,  with  plenty  of  vine 
leaves  between  every  lay,  and   over  the  top  of 
your  pan,  cover  it  fo  that  no  fteam  car;  get  out, 
and  fet  them  on  a  flow  fire  ;  when  they  are  fcald- 
ing  hot  take   them  off,  and  let  them  ftand  till 
they  are  cold,   then  fet  them  on  again  till  they 
are  a  good  green,   then   take   them  off  and  let 
them  ftand   till   they  are   quite  cold,    then    put 
them  in  a  Hqvq  to  drain,  make  a  thin  fyrup;  to 
every  pint  of  water  put  in  a  pint  of  common 

loaf 


220  THE   EXPERIENCED 

loaf  fugar,  boil  it  and  fkim  it  well :  when  it  is 
about  half  cold,  put  in  your  goofeberries,  and  let 
them  ftand  till  the  next  day,  then  give  them  one 
boil  a  day  for  three  days,  then  make  a  fyrup,  to 
every  pint  of  water,  put  in  a  pound  of  fine  fugar,  a 
fliceof  ginger,  and  a  little  lemon  peel  cut  length- 
ways  exceeding  fine,  boil  and  fkim  it  well,  give 
your  goofeberries,  a  boil  in  it ;  when  they  are 
cold  put  them  into  glaffes  or  pots,  lay  papers 
dipped  in  brandy  over  them,  tie  them  up,  and 
Jceep  them  for  ufe. 

To  preferve  Sprigs  green. 
GATHER  the  fprigs  of  muftard  when  it  is 
going  to  feed,  put  them  in  a  pan  of  fpring  water, 
with  a  great  many  vine  leaves  under  and  over 
them,  put  to  them  one  ounce  of  roach  allum, 
fet  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  when  it  is  hot,  take  it 
off,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  quite  cold,  then 
cover  it  very  clofe,  and  hang  it  a  great  height 
over  a  flow  fire;  when  they  are  green,  take  out 
the  fprigs,  and  lay  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  then 
make  a  good  fyrup,  DoiJ  your  fprigs  in  it  once 
a  day  for  three  days,  put  them  in,  and  keep 
them  for  ufe.—  They  are  very  pretty  to  ftick  in 
the  middle  of  a  preferyed  orange,  or  garnifh  a  fet 
of  falvers. — You  may  preferve  young  peas  when 
they  are  juft  come  into  pod  the  fame  way. 

To  preferve  Green  Gage  Plums. 
TAKE  the  fined  plums  you  can  get  juft  be- 
fore they  are  ripe,  put  them  in  a  pan  with  a  lay 
of  vine  leaves  at  the  bottom  of  your  pan,  then 
a  lay  of  plums,  do  fo  till  your  pan  is  almofl 
full,  then  fitt  it  with  water,  fet  them  on  a  flow 

fire;. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  221 
fife  «  when  they  are  hot,  and  their  fkins  begin  to 
rife,  take  them  off,  and  take  the  fkins  carefully 
off,  put  them  on  a  lieve  as  you  do  them,  then 
lay  them  in  the  fame  water,  with  a  lay  of  leaves 
betwixt,  as  you  did  at  the  firft,  cover  them  very 
elofe  fo  that  no  fteam  can  get  out,  and  hang 
them  a  great  diftance  from  the  fire  till  they  are 
green,  which  will  be  five  or  fix  hours  at  leaft, 
then  take  them  carefully  up,  lay  them  on  a  hair 
lieve  to  drain,  make  a  good  fyrup,  give  them  a 
gentle  boil  in  ic  twice  a  day,  for  two  days,  take 
them  out  and  put  them  into  a  fine  clear  fyrup  ; 
put  paper  dipped  in  brandy  over  them,  and  keep 
them  for  ufe. 

To  preferve  Walnuts  black. 

TAKE  the  fmall  kind  of  walnuts,  put  them 
in  fait  and  water,  change  the  water  every  day  for 
nine  days,  then  put  them  into  a  fieve,  let  them 
itand  in  the  air  until  they  begin  to  turn  black, 
then  put  them  into  a  jug,  and  pour  boiling  wa- 
ter over  them,  and  let  them  ftand  till  the  next 
day,  then  put  them  in  a  fieve  to  drain,  flick  a 
clove  into  each  end  of  your  walnut,  put  them 
into  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  let  them  boil  five 
minutes,  then  take  them  up;  make  a  thin 
fyrup,  fcald  them  in  it  three  or  four  times  a 
day  till  your  walnuts  are  black  and  bright,  then 
make  a  thick  fyrup  with  a  few  cloves  and  a  lit- 
tle ginger  cut  in  flice$,  fkim  it  well,  put  in  your 
walnuts,  boil  them  five  or  fix  minutes,  and 
then  put  them  in  your  jar/  wet  your  paper  with 
brandy*  lay  it  over  them,  aad  tie  them  down 

with 


222  THE    EXPERIENCED 

with  bladders.      The  firft   year  they  are  a  little 

bitter,  but  the  fecond  year  they  will  be  very  good. 


To  prefer -ve  Walnuts  green. 

TAKE  large  French  walnuts  when  they  are 
a  little  larger  than  a  good  nutmeg,  wrap  every 
walnut  in  vine  leaves,  tie  it  round  with  a  firing, 
then  put  them  into  a  large  quantity  of  fait  and 
water,  let  them  lie  in  it  for  three  days,  then  put 
them  in  frefli  fait  and  water,  and  let  them  Ire  in 
that  for  three  days  longer,  then  take  them  out, 
and  lay  a  large  quantity  of  vine  leaves  in  the 
bottom  of  your  pan,  then  a  lay  of  walnuts,  then 
vine  leaves,  do  fo  till  your  pan  is  full,  but  take 
great  care  the  walnuts  do  not  touch  one  another  ; 
fill  your  pan  with  hard  water,  with  a  little  bit 
of  roach  allum,  fet  it  over  the  fire  till  the  water 
is  very  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  take  it  off,  let 
them  ftand  in  the  water  till  it  is  quite  cold,  then 
let  them  over  the  fire  again;  when  they  are 
green  take  the  pan  off  the  fire,  and  when  the 
water  is  quite  cold  take  out  the  walnuts,  lay 
them  on  a  iieve  a  good  diftance  from  each  other, 
have  ready  a  thin  fyrup  boiled  and  fkimmed; 
when  it  is  pretty  cool  put  in  your  walnuts,  let 
them  ftand  all  night,  the  next  day  give  them 
feveral  fcalds,  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  keep 
your  preferving  pan  clofe  covered,  and  when  you 
fee  that  they  look  bright,  and  a  pretty  colour, 
have  ready  made  a  rich  fyrup,  of  fine  loaf  fugar, 
with  a  few  dices  of  ginger,  and  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace,  fcald  your  walnuts  in  it,  put 
them  in  fmall  jars,  with  paper  dipped  in  brandy 
3  over 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      223 

ever  them,   tie  them  down  with  bladders,  and 
keep  them  for  ufe. 

To  preferve  Walnuts  white. 

TAKE  the  large  French  walnuts  full  grown, 
but  not  fhelled,  pare  them  till  you  fee  the  white 
appear,  put  them  in  fait  and  water  as  you  do 
them,  have  ready  boiling  a  large  faucepan  full 
of  foft  water,  boil  them  in  it  five  minutes,  take 
them  up,  and  lay  them  oetwixt  two  cloths  till 
you  have  made  a  thin  fyrup,  boil  them  gently  in 
it  for  four  or  five  minutes,  then  put  them  in  a 
jar,  flop  them  up  clofe  tn?X  no  fleam  can  get 
out,  if  it  does  it  will  fpoil  the  colour,  the 
next  day  boil  them  again,  when  they  are  cold, 
make  a  frefli  thick  fyrup,  with  two  or  three  flicea 
of  ginger  and  a  blade  of  mace,  boil  and  fkim 
it  well,  then  give  your  walnuts  a  boil  in  it,  and 
put  them  in  glafs  jars,  with  papers  dipped  in 
brandy  laid  over  them,  and  tie  bladders  over 
them  to  keep  out  the  air. 

To  make  Orange  Marmalade.     ' 

TAKE  the  cleared  Seville  oranges  you  can 
get,  cut  them  in  two,  then  takeout  all  the  pulp 
and  juice  into  a  bafon,  pick  all  the  feeds  and 
fkins  out  of  it,  boil  the  rinds  in  hard  water  till 
they  are  tender  (change  the  water  two  or  three 
times  while  they  are  boiling)  then  pound  them 
in  a  marble  mortar,  add  to  it  the  juice  and  pulp, 
and  put  them  in  the  preferving  pan,  with  double 
its  weight  of  loaf  fugar,  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire, 

boil 


224  THE  EXPERIENCED 

boil  it  a  little  more  than  half  an  hour,  then  put 

it  into  pots  with  brandy  papers  over  them. 

To  make  Transparent  Marmalade. 

TAKE  very  pale  Seville  oranges,  cut  them  in 
quarters,  take  out  the  pulp,  and  put  it  into  a 
bafon,  pick  the  fkins  and  feeds  out,  put  thepeels 
in  a  little  fait  and  water,  let  them  ftand  all  night, 
then  boil  them  in  a  good  quantity  of  fpring 
water  till  they  are  tender,  then  cut  them  in  Very 
thin  flices,  and  put  them  to  the  pulp;  to  every 
pound  of  marmalade  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
double  refined  fugar  beaten  fine,  boil  them  toge- 
ther gently  for  twenty  minutes ;  if  it  is  not 
clear  and  tranfparent,  boil  it  five  or  fix  minutes 
longer,  keep  ftirring  it  gently  all  the  time,  and 
take  care  you  do  not  break  the  flices ;  when  it 
is  cold,  put  it  into  jelly  or  fweetmeat  glaffes,  tie 
them  down  with  brandy  papers  over  them. — - 
They  are  pretty  for  a  defer t  of  any  kind. 

To  make  Quince  Marmalade. 

GET  your  quinces  when  they  are  full  ripe, 
pare  them  and  cut  them  into  quarters,  then  take 
out  the  core,  and  put  them  into  a  faucepan  that 
is  well  tinned,  cover  them  with  the  parings,  fill 
the  faucepan  near  full  of  fpring  water,  cover  it 
clofe  and  let  them  flew  over  a  flow  fire  till  they 
are  foft,  and  of  a  pink  colour,  then  pick  out  all 
your  quinces  from  the  parings,  beat  them  to  a 
pulp  in  a  marble  mortar,  take  their  weight  of 
fine  loaf  fugar,  put  as  much  water  to  it  as  will 
diffolve  it,  boil  and  fkim  it  well,  then  put  in 

your 
2 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEP.ER.  225 
your  quinces  and  boil  them  gently  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  keep  ftirring  it  all  the  time,  or  it 
will  ftick  to  the  pan  and  burn  ;  when  it  is  cold 
*put  it  into  flat  fweetmeat  pots,  and  tie  it  down 
with  brandy  paper. 

To  make  Apricot  Marmalade. 

WHEN  you  preferve  your  apricots,  pick  out 
all  the  bad  ones,  and  thofe  that  are  too  ripe  for 
keeping,  boil  them  in  the  fyrup  till  they  will 
mam,  then  beat  them  in  a  marble  mortar  to  a 
pafte  ;  take  half  their  weight  of  loaf  fugar,  and 
put  as  much  water  to  it  as  will  diflblve  it,  boil 
and  fkim  it  well,  boil  them  till  they  look  clear, 
and  the  fyrup  thick  like  a  fine  jelly,  then  put 
it  into  your  fweetmeat  glaffes,  and  keep  them 
for  ufe. 

To  preferve  Green  Pine  Apples. 

GET  your  pine  apples  before  they  are  ripe, 

and  lay  them  in  ftrong  fait  and  water  five  days, 

then  put  a  large  handful  of  vine  leaves  in  the 

bottom  of  a  large  faucepan,  and  put  in  your 

pine  apples,    fill   your   pan   with   vine  leaves, 

then  pour  on  the  fait  and  water  it  was  laid  in, 

cover  it  up  very  clofe,  and  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire, 

let  it  ftand  till  it  is  a  fine  light  green,  have  ready 

a  thin  fyrup,   made  of  a  quart  of  water  and  a 

pound  of  double  refined  fugar ;  when  it  is  almofl 

cold  put  it  into  a  deep  jar,  and  put  in  the  pine 

apple  with  the  top  on,  let  it  ftand  a  week,  and 

take  care  that  it  is  well  covered  with  the  fyrup, 

CL  then 


226  THE    EXPERIENCED 

then  boil  your  fyrup  again,  and  pour  it  carefully 
into  your  jar,  left  you  break  the  top  of  your 
pine  apple,  and  let  it  ftand  eight  or  ten  weeks, 
and  give  the  fyrup  two  or  three  boils  to  keep  it 
from  moulding,  let  your  fyrup  ftand  till  it  is 
near  cold,  before  you  pour  it  on ;  when  your 
pine  apple  looks  quite  full  and  green,  take  it 
out  of  the  fyrup,  and  make  a  thick  fyrup  of 
three  pounds  of  double  refined  fugar,  with  as 
much  water  as  will  diflblve  it,  boil  and  fkim  it 
well,  put  a  few  flices  of  white  ginger  in  it;  when 
it  is  near  cold  pour  it  upon  your  pine  apple, 
tie  it  down  with  a  bladder,  and  the  pine  apple 
will  keep  many  years,  and  not  fhrink,  but  if 
you  put  it  into  thick  fyrup  at  the  firft,  it  will 
fhrink,  for  the  ftrength  of  the  fyrup  draws  out 

the  juice  and  fpoils  it, N.  B.  It  is  a  great 

fault  to  put  any  kind  of  fruit  that  is  preferved 
whole  into  thick  fyrup  at  firft. 

To  preferve  Red  Gooseberries. 

TO  every  quart  of  rough  red  goofeberries,  put 
a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  put  your  fugar  into  a 
preferving  pan  with  as  much  water  as  will  dif- 
lblve it,  boil  and  fkim  it  well,  then  put  in  your 
goofeberries,  let  them  boil  a  little,  and  fet  them 
by  till  the  next  day,  then  boil  them  till  they 
look  clear,  and  the  fyrup  thick,  then  put  them 
into  pots  or  glaffes,  cover  them  with  brandy 
papers,  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 


To 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      227 

l!o  preferve  Strawberries  whole. 

GET  the  fineft  fcarlet  ftrawberries  with  their 
(talks  on,  before  they  are  too  ripe,  then  lay  them 
feparately  on  a  china  difh,  -beat  and  fift  twice 
their  weight  of  double  refined  fugar,  and  ftrew 
it  over  them,  then  take  a  few  ripe  fcarlet  ftraw- 
berries, crufh  them,,  and- put  them  into  a  jar, 
with  their  weight  of  double  refined  fugar  beat 
fmall,  cover  them  clofe,  and  let  them  ftand  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till  they  are  foft,  and 
the  fyrup  is  come  out  of  them,  then  ftrain  them 
through  a  muflin  rag  into  a  tofling  pan,  boil  and 
fkim  it  well,  when  it  is  cold  put  in  your  whole 
ftrawberries,  and  fet  them  over  the  fire  till  they 
are  milk  warm,  then  take  them  off,  and  let  them 
ftand  till  they  are  quite  cold,  then  fet  them  on 
again,  and  make  them  a  little  hotter,  do  [q  fe- 
veral  times  till  they  look  clear,  but  do  not  let 
them  boil,  it  will  fetch  the  ftalks  off,  when  the 
ftrawberries  are  cold,  put  them  into  jelly  glafles, 
with  the  ftalks  downwards,  and   fill  up  your 
glaffes  with   the    fyrup ;  tie  them  down    with 
brandy  papers  over  them. — They  are  very  pretty 
amongft  jellies  and  creams,  and  proper  for  fet- 
ting  out  a  defert  of  any  kind. 

jT<7  preferve  White  Raspberries  whole* 

GET  your  rafpberries  when  they  are  turning 
white,  with  the  ftalks  on  about  an  inch  long, 
lay  them  fingle  on  a  difh,  beat  and  fift  their 
weight  of  double  refined  fugar,  ftrew  it  over 

0^2  them, 


22§  THE   EXPERIENCED 

them,  to  every  quart  of  rafpberrles  take  a  quart 
of  white  currant  juice,  put  to  it  its  weight  of 
double  refined  fugar,  boil  and  fkim  it  well,  then 
put  in  your  rafpberries  and  give  them  a  fcald, 
take  them  off  and  let  them  ftand  for  two  hours, 
then  fet  them  on  again  and  make  them  a  little 
hotter,  do  fo  for  two  or  three  times,  till  they 
look  clear,  but  do  not  let  them  boil,  it  will  make 
the  ftalks  come  off;  when  they  are  pretty  cool, 
put  them  into  jelly  glaffes  with  the  ftalks  down, 
and  keep  them  for  ufe. — N.  B.  You  may  pre- 
ferve  red  rafpberries  the  fame  way,  only  take 
red  currant  juice  inftead  of  white. 

To  preferve  Morello  Cherries, 

GET  your  cherries  when  they  are  full  ripe, 
take  out  the  ftalks  and  prick  them  with  a  pin  ; 
to  every  two  pounds  of  cherries  put  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  loaf  fugar,  beat  part  of  your  fugar  and 
ftrew  it  over  them  j  let  them  ftand  all  night,  dif- 
folve  the  reft  of  your  fugar  in  half  a  pint  of  the 
juice  of  currants,  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire,  and  put 
in  the  cherries  with  the  fugar,  and  give  them  a 
gentle  fcald,  let  them  ftand  all  night  again,  and 
give  them  another  fcald,  then  take  them  care- 
fully out,  and  boil  your  fyrup  till  it  is  thick, 
then  pour  it  upon  your  cherries,  if  you  find  it 
be  too  thin  boil  it  again. 

To  prefer ve  Barberries  in  Bunches. 

TAKE  the  female  barberries,  pick  out  all  the 
largeft  bunches,  then  pick  the  reft  from  the 
ftalks,  put  them  m  as  much  water  as  will  make 

a  fy- 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER;  229 
a  fyrupof  your  bunches,  boil  them  till  they  are 
foft,  then  ftrain  them  through  a  fievej  to  every 
pint  of  the  juice  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf 
fugar,  boil  and  fkim  it  well,  and  to  every  pint 
of  fyrup  put  half  a  pound  of  barberries  in 
bunches,  boil  them  till  they  look  very  fine  and 
clear,  then  put  them  carefully  into  pots  and 
glaffes ;  tie  brandy  papers  over,  and  keep  them 
for  ufe. 

To  preferve  Barberries  for  Tarts^ 

PICK  the  female  barberries  clean  from  the 
ftalks,  then  take  their  weight  in  loaf  fugar,  put 
them  in  a  jar  and  let  them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  till  the  fugar  is  melted,  and  the  barberries 
quite  foft,  the  next  day  put  them  in  a  pre- 
ferving  pan,  and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes,  then 
put  them  in  jars,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  cool 
place, 

To  preferve  Damsons, 

TAKE  the  fmall  long  damfons,  pick  off  the 
ftalks,  and  prick  them  with  a  pin,  then  put 
them  into  a  deep  pot,  with  half  their  weight  of 
loaf  fugar  pounded,  fet  them  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  they  are  foft,  then  take  them  off,  and 
give  the  fyrup  a  boil,  and  pour  it  upon  them, 
do  fo  two  or  three  times,  then  take  them  care- 
fully out,  and  put  them  into  the  jars  you  intend 
to  keep  them  in,  and  pour  over  them  rendered 
mutton  iuet;  tie  a  bladder  over  them  and  keep 
them  for  ufe  in  a  very  cool  place, 

Q_3  z* 


230  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To preferve  Magnum  Bonum  Plums, 

TAKE  the  large  yellow  plums,  put  them  in 
a  pan  full  of  fpring  water,  fet  them  over  a  flow 
fire,  keep  putting  them  down  with  a  fpoon  till 
you  find  the  fkin  will  come  off,  then  take  them 
up  and  peel  the  fkin  off  with  a  penknife,  put 
them  in  a  fine  thin  fyrup  and  give  them  a  gentle 
boil,  then  take  them  off,  and  turn  them  pretty 
often  in  the  fyrup,  or  the  outfide  will  turn 
brown;  when  they  are  quite  cold,  fet  them  over 
the  fire  again,  let  them  boil  five  or  fix  minutes, 
then  take  them  off  and  turn  them  very  often  in 
the  fyrup  till  they  are  near  cold,  then  take  them 
out  and  lay  them  feparately  on  a  fiat  china  difh, 
ftrain  the  fyrup  through  a  muflin  rag,  add  to  it 
the  weight  of  the  plums  of  fine  loaf  fugai%  boil 
and  fkim  it  very  well,  then  put  in  your  plums, 
boil  them  till  they  look  clear,  then  put  them 
carefully  into^jars  or  glafies,  cover  them  well 
with  the  fyrup,  or  they  will  loofe  their  colour, 
put  brandy  papers  and  a  bladder  over  them. 

To  preferve  Wine  Sours. 

TAKE  the  fineft  wine  fours  you  can  get, 
pick  off  the  ftalks,  run  down  the  feam  with  a 
pin  only  fkin  deep,  then  take  half  their  weight 
of  loaf  fugar  pounded,  and  lay  it  betwixt  your 
plums  in  layers  till  your  jar  is  full,  fet  them  in 
a  kettle  of  boiling  water  till  they  are  foft,  then 
drain  the  fyrup  from  them,  and  give  it  a  boil, 
and  pour  it  on  them,  do  fo  for  feveral  times,  till 

you 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      23I 

you  fee  the  fkin  look  hard  and  the  plums  clear, 
let  them  Hand  a  week,  then  take  them  out  one 
by  one,  and  put  them  into  glaffes,  ja*g,  or  pots, 
give  your  fyrup  a  boil,  if  you  have  not  fyrup 
enough,  boil  a  little  clarified  fugar  with  your 
fyrup  and  fill  up  your  glaffes,  jars,  or  pots,  with  * 
it,  and  put  brandy  papers  over,  and  tie  a  bladder 
over  them  to  keep  out  the  air,  or  they  will  lofe 

their  colour  and  grow  a  purple.* They  are 

pretty  with  either  fteeple  cream,  any  kind  of 
flummeries,  or  under  a  filver  web. 

To  prefer -ve  Apricots. 

PARE  your  apricots,  and  thruft  out  the 
flones  with  a  fcewer,  to  every  pound  of  apricots 
put  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  ftrew  part  .of  it  over 
them,  and  let  them  (land  till  the  next  day,  then 
give  them  a  gentle  boil  three  or  four  different 
times,  let  them  go  cold  betwixt  every  timej 
take  them  out  of  the  fyrup  one  by  one,  the  laft 
time  as  you  boil  them,  Ikim  your  fyrup  well, 
boil  it  till  it  looks  thick  and  clear,  then  pour  it 
over  your  apricots,  and  put  brandy  papers  over 
them. 

To  preferve  Peaches. 

GET  the  largeft  peaches  before  they  are  too 
ripe,  rub  off  the  lint  with  a  cloth,  then  run 
them  down  the  feam  with  a  pin,  ikin  deep, 
cover  them  with  French  brandy,  tie  a  bladder 
over  them,  and  let  them  ftand  a  week,  then  take 
them  out,  and  make  a  ftrcng  fyrup  for  them, 
boil  and  fkim  it  well,  put  in  your  peaches,  and 
Q^4  boil 


232  THE   EXPERIENCED 

boil  them  till  they  look  clear,  then  take  them 
out,  and  put  them  into  pots  or  glafles ;  mix  the 
fyrup  with  the  brandy,  when  it  is  cold  pour  it 
on  your  peaches  ;  tie  them  clofe  down  with  a 
bladder  that  the  air  cannot  get  in,  or  the  peaches 
will  turn  black. 

To  preferve  Quinces  whole. 

PARE  your  quinces  very  thin  and  round, 
that  they  may  look  like  a  fcrew,  then  put  them 
into  a  well  tinned  faucepan,  with  a  new  pewter 
fpoon  in  the  middle  of  them,  and  fill  your  fauce- 
pan with  hard  water,  and  lay  the  parings  over 
your  quinces,  to  keep  them  down  ;  cover  your 
faucepan  fo  clofe  that  the  fteam  cannot  get  out; 
fet  them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they  are  foft,  and  a 
fine  pink  colour,  let  them  ftand  till  they  are 
cold,  and  make  a  good  fyrup  of  double  refined 
fugar,  boil  and  fkim  it  well,  then  put  in  your 
quinces,  let  them  boil  ten  minutes,  take  them 
off,  and  let  them  (land  two  or  three  hours,  then 
boil  them  till  the  fyrup  looks  thick,  and  the 
quinces  cleat,  then  put  them  into  deep  jars,  with 
brandy  papers  and  leather  over  them;  keep  them 
in  a  dry  place  for  ufe. -N.  B.  You  may  pre- 
ferve quinces  in  quarters  the  fame  way. 

To  preferve  Oranges  carved. 

TAKE  the  faired  Seville  oranges  you  can 
get,  cut  the  rinds  with  a  penknife  in  what  form 
you  pleafe,  draw  out  the  part  of  your  peel  as 
you  cut  them,  and  put  them  into  fait  and  hard 

water, 


ENGLISH   HOUSEKEEPER."       233 

water,  let  them  ftand  for  three  days  to  take  out 
the  bitter,  then  boil  them  an  hour  in  a  large 
faucepan  of  frefh  water,  with  fait  in  it,  but 
do  not  cover  them,  it  will  fpoil  the  colour,  then 
take  them  out  of  the  fait  and  water,  and  boil 
them  ten  minutes  in  a  thin  fyrup  for  four  or 
five  days  together,  then  put  them  into  a  deep 
jar,  let  them  ftand  two  months,  and  then  make 
a  thick  fyrup,  and  juft  give  them  a  boil  in  it, 
let  them  ftand  till  the  next  day,  then  put  them 
in  your  jar,  with  brandy  papers  over;  tie  them 
down  with  a  bladder,  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 

N.  B.  You  may  preferve  whole  oranges  with- 
out carving  the  fame  way,  only  do  not  let  them 
boil  fo  long,  and  keep  them  in  a  very  thin  fyrup 
at  firft,  or  it  will  make  them  fhrink  and  weather. 
— Always  obferve  to  put  fait  in  the  water  for 
either  oranges  preferved,  or  any  kind  of  orange 
chips. 

To  preferve  Or  an  ges  in  Jelly. 

TAKE  Seville  oranges,  and  cut  a  hole  out  at 
the  ftalk  as  large  as  a  fixpence,  and  fcoop  out  the 
pulp  quite  clean,  tie  them  feparately  in  muflin, 
and  lay  them  in  fpring  water  for  two  days, 
change  the  water  twice  a  day,  then  boil  them  in 
the  muflin  till  tender  upon  a  flow  tire,  as  the 
water  wafteth  put  hot  water  into  the  pan,  and 
keep  them  covered,  weigh  the  oranges  before 
you  fcoop  them,  and  to  every  pound  put  two 
pounds  of  double  refined  fugar,  and  one  pint  of 
water,  boil  the  fugar  and  water  with  the  juice  of 
the  oranges  to  a  fyrup,  Ikim  it  very  well,  let  it 

ftand 


234  THE   EXPERIENCED 

fland  till  cold,  then  put  in  the  oranges  and  boil 
them  half  an  hour,  if  they  are  not  quite  clear, 
boil  them  once  a  day  for  two  or  three  days,  pare 
and  core  fome  green  pippins,  and  boil  them  till 
the  water  is  ftrong  of  the  apple,  but  do  not  ftir 
the  apples,  only  put  them  down  in  the  water, 
with  the  back  of  a  fpoon,ftrain  the  water  through 
a  jelly  bag  till  quite  clear,  then  to  every  pint  of 
water,  put  one  pound  of  double  refined  fugar, 
and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ftrained  fine,  boil  it  up 
to  a  ftrong  jelly,  drain  the  oranges  out  of  the 
fyrup,  put  them  into  glafs  jars,  or  pots  of  the 
iize  of  an  orange,  with  the  holes  upward,  and 
pour  the  jelly  over  them,  cover  them  with 
brandy  papers,  and  tie  them  clofe  down  with 
bladders. — A7.  B.  You  may  do  lemons  the  fame 
way. 

To  preferve  Lemons 

CARVE  or  pare  your  lemons  very  thin,  and 
make  a  round  hole  on  the  top  the  fize  of  a  mil- 
ling, takeout  all  the  pulp  and  fkins,  rub  them 
with  fait,  and  put  them  in  fpring  water  as  you 
do  them,  to  prevent  them  from  turning  black, 
let  them  lie  in  for  five  or  fix  days,  then  boil  them 
in  frefh  fait  and  water  fifteen  minutes,  have 
ready  made  a  thin  fyrup  of  a  quart  of  water, 
snd  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  boil  them  in  it  five 
minutes,  once  a  day,  for  four  or  five  days,  then 
put  them  in  a  large  jar,  let  them  fland  for  fix 
or  eight  wTeeks,  and  it  will  make  them  look 
clear  and  plump,  then  take  them  out  of  that 
fyrup,  or  they  wTill  mould  ;  make  a  fyrup  of 
fine  fugar,  put  as  much  water  to  it  as  will  dif- 
4  folve 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER."  235 
folve  it,  boil  and  fkim  it,  then  put  in  your 
lemons,  and  boil  them  gently  till  they  are  clear, 
then  put  theminto  ajar  with  brandy  papers  over; 
tie  them  clofe  down,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry 
place  for  ufe. 

To  preferve  Oranges  with  Marmalade. 

PARE  your  oranges  as  thin  as  you  can,  then 
cut  a  hole  in  the  {talk  end,  the  fize  of  a  fix- 
pence,  take  out  all  the  pulp,  then  put  your 
oranges  in  fait  and  water,  boil  them  a  little  more 
than  an  hour,  but  do  not  cover  them,  it  will  turn 
them  a  bad  colour,  have  ready  made  a  fyrup  of 
a  pound  of  fine  loaf  fugar,  with  a  pint  of  water, 
put  in  your  oranges,  boil  them  till  they  look 
clear,  then  pick  out  all  the  fkins  and  pippins 
out  of  your  pulp,  and  cut  one  of  your  oranges 
into  it,  as  thin  as  poffible,  and  take  its  weight 
of  double  refined  fugar,  boil  it  in  a  clean  tolling- 
pan  over  a  flow  clear  fire,  till  it  looks  quite  clear 
and  tranfparent,  when  it  is  cold  take  your 
oranges  out  and  fill  them  with  your  marmalade, 
and  put  on  your  top,  and  put  them  in  your  fyrup 
again,  let  them  ftand  for  two  months,  then 
make  a  fyrup  of  double  refined  fugar,  with  as 
much  water  as  will  diflblve  it,  boil  and  fkim  it 
well,  then  give  your  oranges  a  boil  in  it;  put 
brandy  papers  over,  and  tie  them  down  with  a 
bladder  5  they  will  keep  for  feveral  years. 


To 


236  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Bullace  Cheese. 

TAKE  your  bullace  when  they  are  full  ripe, 
put  them  into  a  pot,  and  to  every  quart  of  buU 
lace  put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar  beat 
fmall,  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven  till  they 
are  foft,  then  rub  them  through  a  hair  fievej  to 
every  pound  of  pulp  add  half  a  pound  of  loaf 
fugar  beat  fine,  then  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half 
over  a  flow  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  it  all  the  time, 
then  pour  it  into  potting  pots,  and  tie  brandy 
papers  over  them,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry 
place  ;  when  it  has  flood  a  few  months  it  will 
cut  out  very  bright  and  fine. — JV.  B,  You  may 
■  make  floe  cheefe  the  fame  way. 

To  make  Elder  Rob. 

GATHER  your  elder  berries  when  they  are 
full  ripe,  pick  them  clean  from  the  ftaiks,  put 
them  in  lar^e  flew  pots,  and  tie  a  paper  over 
them,  put  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  let  them 
iland  two  hours,  then  take  them  out,  and  put 
them  in  a  thin  coarfe  cloth  and  fqueeze  out  all 
the  juice  you  can  get,  then  put  eight  quarts  into 
a  well-tinned  copper,  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire,  let 
it  boil  till  it  be  reduced  to  one  quart,  when  it 
grows  near  done,  keep  ftirring  it  to  prevent  its 
burning  to  the  bottom,  then  pqt  it  into  potting 
pots,  let  it  fland  two  or  three  days  in  the  fun, 
then  dip  a  paper  in  fweet  oil  the  fize  of  your 
pot,  and  lay  it  on,  tie  it  down  with  a  bladder, 
and  keep  it  in  a  very  dry  place  for  ufe. 

I  T$ 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      237 

To  make  Black  Currant  Roe. 

t 

GET  your  currants  when  they  are  ripe,  pick, 
bake,  and  fqueeze  them  the  fame  as  you  did  the 
elder  berries,  then  put  fix  quarts  of  the  juice 
into  a  large  toiling  pan,  boil  it  over  a  (low  fire, 
till  it  is  pretty  thick,  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  is 
reduced  to  one  quart,  pour  it  into  flat  pots,  dry 
it,  and  tie  it  down  the  fame  way  as  you  did  your 
elder  rob. 

Tojlew  Pippins  whole. 

PARE  and  core  your  pippins  and  throw  them 
into  fair  water  as  you  pare  them,  then  take  the 
weight  of  the  fruit  of  double  refined  fu^ar,  and 
diflolve  it  in  a  quart  of  water,  then  boil  it  up, 
and  fcum  it  clean,  then  put  in  the  fruit,  let 
them  ftew  gently  till  they  are  tender,  and  look 
clear,  then  take  them  out  and  fqueeze  in  the 
juice  of  a  large  lemon  and  let  it  boil  up,  fcum 
it  and  run  it  through  ajelly  bag  upon  the  fruit  -y 
you  may  ftick  the  pippins  with  candied  oranges 
and  lemons  cut  in  thin  flices,  if  you  pleafe. 


CHAP.      IX. 

Directions  for  Drying  and  Candying. 

BEFORE  you  candy  any  fort  of  fruit,  pre- 
serve them  firft,  and   dry  them  in  a  ftove, 
or  before  the  fire,  till  the  fyrup  is  run  out  of 

them 


£38  THE    EXPERIENCED 

them,  then  boil  your  fugar,  candy  height,  dip 
in  the  fruit,  and  lay  them  in  dilhes  in  your  ftove 
till  dry,  then  put  them  in  boxes,  and  keep  them 
in  a  dry  place* 

To  make  Apricot  Paste. 

PARE  and  ftone  your  apricots,  boil  them  in 
Water  till  they  will  mafh quite fmall,  put  a  pound 
of  double  refined  fugar  in  your  preserving  pan, 
with  as  much  water  as  will  diffolveit,  and  boil 
it  to  fugar  again,  take  it  off  the  ftove,  and  put 
in  a  pound  of  apricots,  let  it  ftand  till  the  fugar 
is  melted,  then  make  it  fcalding  hot,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil,  pour  it  into  China  difhes,  or  cups, 
fet  them  in  a  ftove,  when  they  are  ftifF  enough 
to  turn  out,  put  them  on  glafs  plates,  turn  them 
as  you  fee  occafion  "till  they  are  dry. 

•r  To  make  Raspberry  Paste. 

MASH  a  quart  of  rafpberries,  flrain  one  half, 
and  put  the  juice  to  the  other  half,  boil  them  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  put  to  them  a  pint  of  red 
currant  juice,  let  them  boil  all  together  till  your 
berries  are  enough,  put  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  double  refined  fugar  into  a  clean  pan,  with  as 
much  water  as  will  diffolve  it,  and  boil  it  to  a 
fugar  again1,  then  put  in  your  berries  and  juice, 
give  them  a  fcald,  and  pour  it  into  glaffes  or 
plates,  then  put  them  into  a  ftove  to  dry,  and 
turn  them  as  you  feeoccafion. 


To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     239 

To  make  Gooseberry  Paste. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  red  goofeberries  when  they 
are  full  grown  and  turned,  but  not  ripe,  cut  them 
in  halves,  pick  out  all  the  feeds,  have  ready  a 
pint  of  currant  juice,  boil  your  goofeberries  in  it 
till  they  are  tender,  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
double  refined  fugarinto  your  pan,  with  as  much 
water  as  will  diffolve  it,  and  boil  it  to  fugar  again, 
then  put  all  together  and  make  it  fcalding  hot, 
butit  moft  not  boil,  pour  it  into  plates  or  glaffes, 
the  thicknefs  you  like,  then  dry  it  in  a  ftove. 

To  make  Currant  Paste  either  red  or  white. 

STRIP  your  currants,  put  a  little  juice  to 
them  to  keep  them  from  burning,  boil  them 
well  and  rub  them  through  a  hair  fieve,  then 
boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  :  to  a  pint  of  juice 
put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double  refined  fugar, 
lifted,  ihake  in  your  fugar,  when  it  is  melted, 
pour  it  on  plates,  dry  it  as  the  other  paftes,  and 
turn  it  into  what  form  you  pleafe^ 

To  make  Currant  Clear  Cake, 

STRIP  and  wafh  your  currants,  to  four  quarts 
of  currants  put  one  quart  of  water,  boil  them 
very  well,  then  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  to  a 
pint  of  jelly  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double 
refined  fugar,  pounded  and  fifted  through  a  hair 
fieve,  fet  your  jelly  on  the  fire,  when  it  has 
juft  boiled  up,  fhake  in  the  fugar,  ftir  it  well, 
then  fet  it  on  the  fire  again,  make  it  fcalding 

hot 


£4o  THE   EXPERIENCED 

hot  to  melt  the  fugar,  but  do  not  let  it  Soil, 
then  pour  it  on  clear  cake  glaffes  or  plates,  when 
it  is  jellied,  before  it  is  candied,  cut  it  in  rounds 
or  half  rounds,  this  will  not  knot ;  and  dry 
them  the  fame  way  as  you  did  the  apricot  pafte. 
White  currant  clear  cakes  are  made  the  fame 
way,  but  obferve,  that  as  foon  as  the  jelly  is 
made,  you  mufl  put  the  fugar  to  it,  or  it  will 
change  the  colour. 

To  make  Violet  Cakes. 

TAKE  the  fineft  violets  you  can  get,  pick  off 
the  leaves,  beat  the  violets  fine  in  a  mortar,  with 
the  juice  of  a  lemon,  beat  and  lift  twice  their 
weight  of  double  refined  fugar,  put  your  fugar 
and  violets  into  a  iilver  fauce-pan,  or  tankard, 
fet  it  over  a  flow  fire,  keep  ftirring  it  gently  till 
all  your  fugar  is  diflblved,  if  you  let  it  boil  it  will 
difcolour  your  violets,  drop  them  in  china 
plates ;  when  you  take  them  off",  put  them  in  a 
box  with  paper  betwixt  every  layer. 

To  dry  Cherries. 

TAKE  Morello  cherries,  ftone  them,  and  to 
every  pound  of  cherries  put  a  pound  and  a  quar- 
ter of  fine  fugar,  beat  and  fift  it  over  your  cher- 
ries, let  them  (land  all  night,  take  them  out  of 
your  fugar,  and  to  every  pound  of  fugar  put  two 
ipoonfuls  of  water,  boil  and  fcum  it  well,  then 
put  in  your  cherries^  let  your  fugar  boil  over 
them,  the  next  morning  ftrain  them,  and  to 
every  pound  of  the  fyrup  put  half  a  pound  more 
fugar,  let  it  boil  a  little  thicker,  then  put  in 

your 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  241 
your  cherries,  and  let  them  boil  gently,  the  next 
day  flrain  them,  and  dry  them  in  a  Hove,  and 
turn  them  every  day; 

AfecondWay  to  dry  Cherries. 

STONE  a  pound  and  a  half  of  cherries,  put 
them  in  a  preferving  pan,  with  a  little  water, 
when  they  are  fcalding  hot,  put  them  in  a  fieve, 
or  on  a  cloth  to  dry,  then  put  them  in  your  pan 
again,  beat  and  fift  half  a  pound  of  double  refined 
fugar,  ftrew  it  betwixtevery  lay  of  cherries,  when 
it  is  melted  fet  them  on  the  fire,  and  make  them 
fcalding  hot,  let  them  fland  till  they  are  cold, 
do  fo  twice  more,  then  drain  them  from  the  £y- 
rup,  and  lay  them  feparately  to  dry ;  dip  them 
in  cold  water,  and  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  fet 
them  in  the  hot  fun  to  dry  as  before,  and  keep 
them  in  a  dry  place  till  you  want  to  ufe  them. 

To  dry  Green  Gage  Plums. 

MAKE  a  thin  fyrup  of  half  a  pound  of  fmgfe 
refined  fugar,  fkim  it  well,  flit  a  pound  of  plums 
down  the  feam*  and  put  them  in  the  fyrup,  keep 
them  fcalding  hot  till  they  are  tender,  they  muft 
be  well  covered  with  fyrup*  or  they  will  lofe 
their  colour,  let  them  ftarid  all  night,  then  make 
a  rich  fyrup ;  to  a  pound  of  double  refined  fu- 
gar put  two  fpoonfuls  of  water,  fkim  it  well, 
and  boil  it  almoft  to  a  candy,  when  it  is.  cold, 
drain  your  plums  out  of  the  firft  fyrup,  and  put 
them  in  the  thick  fyrup,  be  fure  let  the  fyrup 
cover  them,  fet  them  on  the  fire  to  fcald  till  they 
look  clear,  then  put  them  in  a  china  bowl,  when 
they  have  flood  a  week  take  them  out,  and  lay 

R  them 


242  THE  EXPERIENCED 

them  on  china  difhes,  dry  them  in  a  ftove,  and 
turn  them  once  a  day  till  they  are  dry. — If  you 
would  have  them  green,  fcald  them  with  vine 
leaves,  the  fame  way  as  the  green  gages  are  done. 

jT<?  make  Apricot  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  nice  ripe  apricots,  fcald 
them,  and  as  ibon  as  you  find  the  ikin  will  come 
off,  peel  them  and  take  out  the  ftones,  beat  them 
in  a  marble  mortar  to  a  pulp,  boil  half  a  pound 
of  double  refined  fngar,  with  a  fpoonful  of  wa- 
ter, fkim  it  exceeding  well,  then  put  in  the 
pulp  of  your  apricots,  lei  them  fimmer  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour  over  a  flow  fire,  ftir  it  foftly  all 
the  time,  then  pour  it  into  fhallow  flat  glaffes, 
turn  them  out  upon  glafs  plates,  put  them  in  a 
flove,  and  turn  them  once  a  day  till  they  are  dry. 

To  burn  Almonds. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  loaf  fugar,  two  pounds 
of  almonds,  put  them  in  a  ftew-pan  with  a  pint 
of  water,  fet  them  over  a  clear  coal  fire,  let 
them  boil  till  you  hear  the  almonds  crack,  take 
them  off  and  ftir  them  about  till  they  are  quite 
dry,  then  put  them  in  a  wine  lieve  and  flft  all 
the  fugar  from  them,  put  the  fugar  into  the  pan 
again  with  a  little  water,  give  it  a  boil,  put  four 
fpoonfuls  of  fcraped  cochineal  to  the  fugar  to 
colour  it,  put  the  almonds  into  the  pan,  keep 
ftirring  them  over  the  fire  till  they  are  quite  dry, 
put  them  into  a  glafs  and  they  will  keep  twelve 
months. 

To  dry  Damsons. 

GET  your  damfons  when  they  are  full  riper 
fpread  thexn  on  a  coarfe  cloth,  fet  them  in  a  very 

cool 


ENGLISH    KOUSE-KEEPER.      243 

Cool  oven,  let  them  ftand  a  day  or  two  ;  if  they 
are  not  as  dry  as  a  frefh  prune,  put  them  in  an-^ 
other  cool  oven  for  a  day  or  two  longer,  till  they 
are  pretty  dry,  then  take  them  out,  and  lay  them 
in  a  dry  place,  they  will  eat  like  frefh  plums  in 
the  winter. 

To  candy  Ginger. 

BEAT  two  pounds  of  fine  loaf  fugar,  put 
one  pound  in  a  toffing  pan,  with  as  much  water 
as  will  diffolve  it,  with  one  ounce  of  race  ginger 
grated  fine,  ftir  them  well  together  over  a  very 
flow  fire  till  the  fugar  begins  to  boil,  then  ftir 
in  the  other  pound,  and  keep  flirring  it  till  it 
grows  thick,  then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  drop 
it  in  cakes  upon  earthen  difhes,  fet  them  in  a 
warm  place  to  dry,  and  they  will  look  white* 
and  be  very  hard  and  brittle* 

To  make  Orange  Chips. 
TAKE  the  beft  Seville  oranges,  pare  them 
aflant,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  broad,  if  you  can 
keep  the  paring  whole  it  looks  much  prettier* 
when  you  have  pared  them  all,  put  them  in  fait 
and  fpring  water  for  a  day  or  two,  then  boil 
them  in  a  large  quantity  of  fpring  water  till  they 
are  tender,  then  drain  them  on  a  fieve,  have  ready 
a  thin  fyrup,  made  of  a  quart  of  v/ater,  and  a 
pound  of  fine  fugar,  boil  them  (a  few  at  a  time 
to  keep  them  from  breaking)  till  they  look  clear, 
then  put  them  into  a  fyrup  made  of  fine  loaf  fu- 
gar, with  as  much  water  as  will  diflblve  it,  and 
boil  them  to  a  candy  height,  when  you  take  them 
up, lay  them  on  fieves, and  grate  double  refined  fu- 
gar all  over  them, and  put  them  in  a  ftove,or  by  the 
fire  to  dry,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  for  ufe. 

R  z  To 


244        THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  dry  Currants  in  bunches. 

WHEN  the  currants  are  ftoned  and  tied  up 
in  bunches,  to  every  pound  of  currants  take  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  fugar,  and  to  every  pound 
of  fugar  put  half  a  pint  of  water,  boil  thefyrup 
very  well,  lay  your  currants  in  it,  fet  them  on 
the  fire,  and  let  them  juft  boil,  take  them  off, 
cover  it  clofe  with  a  paper,  let  them  ftand  till 
the  next  day,  then  make  them  fcalding  hot,  let 
them  ftand  for  two  or  three  days,  with  a  paper 
clofe  to  them,  then  lay  them  on  earthen  plates, 
and  lift  them  well  over  with  fugar,  put  them  in 
a  ftove  to  dry,  the  next  day  lay  them  on  fieves, 
but  do  not  turn  them  till  the  upper  fide  is  dry, 
then  turn  them,  and  fift  the  other  fide  well  with 
fugar  ;  when  they  are  quite  dry,  lay  them  be- 
twixt papers. 

To  dry  Apricots. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  apricots,,  pare  and  ftone 
them,  put  them  in  your  tofiing  pan,  pound  and 
lift  half  a  pound  of  double  refined  fugar,  ftrew 
a  little  amongft  them,  and  lay  the  reft  over  them  ; 
let  them  ftand  twenty-four  hours^turn  them  three 
or  four  times  in  the  fyrup,  then  boil  them  pretty 
quick  till  they  look  clear,  when  they  are  cold  take 
them  out,  and  lay  them  cm  glaffes,  put  them  into 
a  ftove,  and  turn  them  every  half  hour,  the  next 
day  every  hour,  and  after  as  you  fee  occafion. 

To  make  Lemon  Drops. 

DIP  a  lump  of  treble  refined  loaf  fugar  in 
water,  boil  itftiffifh,  take  it  off,  rub  it  with  the 
back  of  a  filver  fpoon  to  the  fide  of  your  pan, 
then  grate  in  fome  lemon-peel,  boil  it  up,  and 

5  drop 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  24$ 
drop  it  on  paper  -,  if  you  want  it  red  put  in  a 
little  cochineal. 

To  make  Lemon  Drops  afecondWay. 

TAKE  the  juice  of  three  frefh  lemons  ftrained 
fine,  and  mix  it  with  a  pound  of  treble  refined 
fugar  beaten  and  fiftcd  through  a  lawn  fieve,  beat 
them  together  for  an  hour,  it  will  make  them 
white  and  bright,  then  drop  them  upon  writing 
paper,  and  dry  them  before  the  fire  or  in  the  fun. 
They  are  a  pretty  ornament  for  a  defert. 

To  make  Peppermint  Drops  to  carry  in  the 

Pocket. 

TAKE  one  pound  of  treble  refined  fugar, 
beat  it  fine  and  fift  it  through  a  lawn  fieve,  then 
mix  it  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  it  to  a 
thick  froth-,  then  add  fixty  drops  of  the  oil  of 
peppermint  and  beat  them  all  well  together,  then 
with  a  tea-fpoon  drop  it  upon  fine  cap  paper, 
the  fize  of  half  a  nutmeg,  and  put  them  upon 
the  hearth  to  dry,  the  next  day  take  them  off, 
and  they  are  fit  for  ufe. 

To  make  Raspberry  or  Currant  Drops. 

TAKE  the  juice  of  rafpberries  or  red  cur- 
rants, add  as  much  treble  refined  fugar  beaten  and 
finely  fifted  as  will  make  it  into  a  thin  pafte,  drop 
them  upon  fine  cap  paper  with  a  tea-fpoon,  dry 
them  before  the  fire,  the  next  day  take  them  off, 
and  keep  them  in  aglafsjar,  it  will  preferve .the 
flavour.     They  are  a  great  ornament  to  a  defert. 

r3  r* 


%46        THE  EXPERIENCED 

2*0  dry  Peaches. 

PARE  and  ftone  the  largeft  Newingtora 
peaches,  have  ready  a  faucepan  of  boiling  water, 
put  in  the  peaches,  let  them  boil  till  they  are 
tender,  lay  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  then  weigh 
them,  and  put  them  in  the  pan  they  were  boiled 
in,  and  cover  them  with  their  weight  of  fugar, 
let  them  ire  two  or  three  hours,  then  boil  them 
till  they  are  clear,  and  the  fyrup  pretty  thick, 
let  them  ftand  all  night  covered  clofe,  fcald 
them  very  well,  then  take  them  off  to  cool, 
then  fet  them  on  again  till  the  peaches  are  tho- 
roughly hot;  do  this  for  three  days,  lay  them 
on  plates  to  dry,  and  turn  them  every  day. 

To  candy  Angelica. 
TAKE  it  when  young,  cut  it  in  lengths,  cover 
it  clofe,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  tender,  peel  it^  and 
put  it  in  again,  let  it  iimmer  and  boil  till  it  is 
green,  then  take  it  up,  and  dry  it  with  a  cloth  $ 
to  every  pound  of  ftalks  put  a  pound  of  fugar  $ 
put  your  ftalks  into  an  earthen  pan,  beat  the 
fugar  and  ftrew  over  them,  let  it  ftand  two  days, 
then  boil  it  till  it  is  clear  and  green,  put  it  in  a 
cullender  to  drain  ;  beat  a  pound  of  fugar  to 
powder  again,  ftrew  it  on  your  angelica,  lay  it 
on  plates  to  dry,  and  fet  them  in  the  oven  after 
the  pies  are  drawn0— Three  pounds  and  a  half  of 
fijgar  is  enough  to  four  pounds  of  ftalks. 

To,  candy  Lemon  or  Orange  Peel. 

CUT  your  lemons  or  oranges  long-ways,  and 
take  out  all  the  pulp,  and  put  the  rinds  into  a 

g  prettv 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  247 
pretty  ftrong  fait  and  hard  water  fix  days,  then 
boil  them  in  a  large  quantity  of  fpring  water  till 
they  are  tender,  then  take  them  out  and  lay  them 
on  a  hair  fieve  to  drain,  then  make  a  thin  fyrup 
of  fine  loaf  fugar,  a  pound  to  a  quart  of  water ; 
put  in  your  peels  and  boil  them  half  an  hour, 
or  till  they  look  clear,  have  ready  a  thick  fyrup 
made  of  fine  loaf  fugar,  with  as  much  water  as 
will  diflolve  it,  put  in  your  peels,  and  boil  them 
over  a  flow  fire,  till  you  fee  the  fyrup  candy 
about  the  pan  and  peels,  then  take  them  out, 
and  grate  fine  fugar  all  over  them,  lay  them  on 
a  hair  fieve  to  drain,  and  fet  them  in  a  ftove,  or 
before  the  fire  to  dry,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry 
place  for  ufe. — N.  B.  Do  not  cover  your  fauce- 
pan  when  you  boil  either  lemons  or  oranges. 

To  boil  Sugar  candy  height* 

PUT  a  pound  of  fugar  into  a  clean  toffing 
pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  water,  fet  it  over  a  very 
clear  flow  fire,  take  off  the  fcum  as  it  rifes,  boil 
it  till  it  looks  fine  and  clear,  then  take  out  a  lit- 
tle with  a  filver  fpoon  ;  when  it  is  cold,  if  it  will 
draw  a  thread  from  your  fpoon,  it  is  boiled  high 
enough  for  any  kind  of  fweetmeat,  then  boil 
your  fyrup,  and  when  it  begins  to  candy  round 
the  edge  of  your  pan,  it  is  candy  height. 

jV.  B.  It  is  a  great  fault  to  put  any  kind  of 
fweetmeats  into  too  thick  a  fyrup,  efpecially  at 
the  firft,  for  it  withers  your  fruit,  and  takes  off 
both  the  beauty  and  flavour. 


R  4  CHAP. 


248  THE    EXPERIENCED 

CHAP.      X. 

Observations  upon  Creams,   Custards,  and 

Cheese-cakes. 

WHEN  you  make  any  kind  of  creams  and 
cuftards,  take  great  care  your  toffing  pan 
be  well  tinned,  put  a  fpoonful  of  water  in  it  to 
prevent  the  cream  from  flicking  to  the  bottom 
of  your  pan,  then  beat  your  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
ftrain  out  the  threads,  and  follow  the  directions 
of  your  receipt.  —As  to  citeefe-cakes,  they  fhould 
not  be  made  long  before  you  bake  them,  parti- 
cularly almond  or  lemon  cheefe-cakes,  for  Sand- 
ing makes  them  oil  and  grow  fad,  a  moderate 
oven  bakes  them  befr,  if  it  is  too  hot  it  burns 
them  and  takes  off  the  beauty,  and  a  very  flow 
oven  makes  them  fad  and  look  black  ;  make  your 
cheefe-cakes  up  jufl  when  the  oven  is  of  a  pro- 
per heat,  and  they  will  rife  well  and  be  of  g, 
proper  colour. 

To  make  Pistacho  Cream. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  piftacho  nuts,  take 
out  the  kernels,  beat  them  in  a  mortar  with  a 
fpoonful  of  brandy,  put  them  into  a  toffing  pan, 
with  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  beat  fine,  ilir  it  gently  over  a  very  flow  fire 
till  it  grows  thick,  then  put  it  into  a  china  foup 
plate,  when  it  grows  cold  ftick  it  all  over  with 
imail  pieces  and  ferve  it  up. 

75?  make  Chocolate  Cream. 

SCRAPE  fine  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  beft 
(chocolate,  put  to  it  as  much  water  as  will  dif- 

fplye 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      249 

-folve  it,  put  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  beat  it  half 
an  hour,  put  in  as  much  fine  fugar  as  will  fweeten 
it  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  cream,  mill  it,  and 
as  the  froth  rifes  lay  it  on  a  fieve,  put  the  re- 
mainder part  of  your  cream  in  poifet  glafTes,  and 
lay  the  frothed  cream  upon  them. — It  makes  a 
pretty  mixture  upon  a  fet  of  falvers. 

To  male Spanish  Cream. 
DISSOLVE  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rofe 
water  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  ifmglafs  cut 
fmall,  run  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  add  to  it  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  beat  and  mixed  with  half  a 
pint  of  cream,  two  forre.l  leaves,  and  fugar  to 
your  taffe,  dip  the  dim.  in  cold  water  before  you 
put  in  the  cream,  then  cut  it  out  with  a  jigging 
iron,  and  lay  it  in  rings  round  different  coloured 
fweetmeats. 

*  To  make  Ice  Cream. 

PARE,  ftone,  and  fcald  twelve  ripe  apricots, 
beat  them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar,  put  to  them 
fix  ounces  of  double  refined  fugar,  a  pint  of 
fcalding  cream,  work  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  put 
it  into  a  tin  that  has  a  clofe  cover,  fet  it  in  a  tub 
of  ice  broken  fmall,  and  a  large  quantity  of  fait 
put  amongft  it,  when  you  fee  your  cream* grow 
thick  round  the  edges  of  your  tin,  ftir  it,  and 
fet  it  in  again  till  it  grows  quite  thick,  when 
your  cream  is  all  froze  up,  take  it  out  of  your 
tin,  and  put  it  into  the  mould  you  intend  it  to  be 
turned  out  of,  then  put  on  the  lid,  and  have 
ready  another  tub  with  ice  and  fait  in  as  before, 
put  your  mould  in  the  middle,  and  lay  your  ice 

under 


$5o  THE   EXPERIENCED 

under  and  over  it,  let  it  ftand  four  or  five  hours, 
dip  your  tin  in  warm  water  when  you  turn  it 
out;  if  it  be  fummer,  you  mutt  not  turn  it  out 
till  the  moment  you  want  it;  you  may  ufe  any 
fort  of  fruit  if  you  have  not  apricots,  only  ob<- 
ferve  to  work  it  fine. 

To  make  Clotted  Cream. 

PUT  one  tea-fpoon  of  earning  into  a  quart 
of  good  cream,  when  it  comes  to  a  curd  break 
it  very  carefully  with  a  filver  fpoon,  lay  it  upon 
a  fieve  to  drain  a  little,  put  it  into  a  china  foup 
plate,  pour  over  it  fome  good  cream,  with  the 
juice  of  rafpberries,  damfons,  or  any  kind  of 
fruit  to  make  it  a  fine  pink  colour,  fweeten  it 
to  your  tafte,  and  lay  round  it  a  few  ftrawberry 
leaves. — It  is  proper  for  a  middle  at  fupper,  or 
a  corner  at  dinner. 

To  make  Hartshorn  Cream. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  hartfhorn  fhavings, 
boil  them  in  three  pints  of  water  till  it  is  reduced 
to  half  a  pint,  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  put 
to  it  a  pint  of  cream,  let  it  juft  boil  up,  then 
put  it  into  jelly  glaffes,  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold, 
by  dipping  your  glades  into  fcalding  wrater  it 
will  flip  out  whole,  then  ftick  them  all  over 
with  dices  of  almonds  cut  length-ways  :  it  eats 
well  with  white  wine  and  iugar,  like  flummery. 

To  make  Ribband  Cream. 

TAKE  eight  quarts  of  new  milk,  fet  it  on 
the  fire,  when  it  is  ready  to  boil  put  in  a  quart 
of  good  cre^m,  earn  it,  and  pour  it  ir:to  a  large 
bowl,  let  it  ftand  all   night,  then  take  off  the 

cream, 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     251 

cream,  and  lay  it  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  cut  it  to 
the  fize  of  your  glaflfes,  and  lay  red,  green,  or  co- 
loured fweetmeats  between  every  layer  of  cream. 

To  make  Lemon  Cream. 
TAKE  a  pint  of  fpring  water,  the  rinds  of 
two  lemons  pared  very  thin,  and  the  juice  of 
three,  beat  the  whites  of  fix  eggs  very  well, 
mix  the  whites  with  the  water  and  lemon,  put 
fugar  to  your  tafte,  then  fct  it  over  the  fire,  and 
keep  ftirring  it  till  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil,  ftrain  it  through  a  cloth,  beat  the  yolks  of 
fix  eggs,  put  it  over  the  fire  till  it  be  quite 
thick,  then  put  it  into  a  bowl  to  cool,  and  put 
it  in  your  glafies. 

To  make  Steeple  Cream  with  Wine  Sour. 

TAKE  one  pint  of  ftrong  clear  calf  's-foot 
jelly,  the  yolks  of  four  hard  eggs,  pounded  in 
a  mortar  exceeding  fine,  with  the  juice  of  a 
Seville  orange,  and  as  much  double  refined  fugar 
as  will  make  it  fweet,  when  your  jelly  is  warm 
put  it  in,  and  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  is  cold  and 
grows  as  thick  as  cream,  then  put  it  into  jelly 
glafies,  the  next  day  turn  it  out  into  a  difn  with 
preferved  wine  fours,  ftick  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in 
the  top  of  every  cream,  and  ferve  it  up  with 
flowers  round  it. 

To  make  Raspberry  Cream. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  rafpberries,  or  rafpbeny 
jam,  rub  it  through  a  hair  fieve  to  take  out  thi 
Tge$s?  mix  it  well  with  your  cream,  put  in  as 

much 


252  THE  EXPERIENCED 

much  loaf  fugar  as  will  make  it  pleafant,  then 
put  it  into  a  milk  pot  to  raife  a  froth  with  a  cho- 
colate mill  j  as  your  froth  rifes  take  it  off  with 
a  fpoon,  lay  it  upon  a  hair  fieve,  when  you  have 
got  what  froth  you  have  occasion  for,  put  the 
remainder  of  your  cream  into  a  deep  china  difh 
or  punch  bowl,  put  your  frothed  cream  upon  it, 
as  high  as  it  will  lie  On,  then  flick  a  light  flower 
in  the  middle  and  fend  it  up. — It  is  proper  for 
a  middle  at  fupper,  or  a  corner  at  dinner. 

Lemon  Cream  with  Peel. 

EOIL  a  pint  of  cream,  when  it  is  half  cold 
put  in  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  ftir  it  till  it  is 
cold,  then  fet  it  over  the  fire,  with  four  ounces 
of  loaf  fugar,  a  tea  fpoonful  of  grated  lemon 
peel,  ftir  them  till  it  is  pretty  hct,  take  it  off 
the  fire  and  put  it  in  a  bafon  to  cool,  when  it  is 
cold  put  it  in  fweetmeat  glaifes,  lay  pafte  knots, 
or  lemon  peel  cut  like  long  ftraws  over  the  tops 
of  your  glaffes.  —  It  is  proper  to  be  put  upon  % 
bottom  falver  amongft  jellies  and  whips. 

Orange  Cream. 

TAKE  the  juice  of  four  Seville  oranges,  and 
the  out- rind  of  one  pared  exceeding  fine,  put 
them  into  a  tofling-pan  with  one  pint  of  water, 
and  eight  ounces  of  fugar,  beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  ftir  it  one  way  till  it 
grows  rhick  and  white,  ftrain  it  through  a  gauze 
fieve,  ltir  it  till  it  is  cold,  then  beat  the  yolks  of 
five   eggs  exceeding  well,  put  it  in  your  tofling 

pan 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       i$f 

pan  with  the  cream,  ftir  it  over  a  very  flow  fire 
till  it  is  ready  to  boil,  put  it  into  a  bafon  to  cool, 
and  ftir  it  till  it  is  quite  cold,  then  put  it  into 
jelly  glaffes :  fend  it  in  upon  a  ialver  with  whips 
and  jellies. 

To  make  Burnt  Cream. 

BOIL  a  pint  of  cream  with  fugar,  and  a  lit- 
tle lemon  peel  fhred  fine,  then  beat  the  yolks  of 
fix  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  fepai  ately,  when 
your  cream  is  cooled,  put  in  your  eggs,  with  a 
fpoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  and  one  of  fine 
flour,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  keep  ftirring  it  till  it 
is  thick,  put  it  into  a  dilh  ;  when  it  is  cold  fift 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar  all  over,  hold  a 
hot  falamander  over  it  till  it  is  very  brown,  and 
looks  like  a  glafs  plate  put  over  your  cream. 

To  make  La  Pompadour  Cream. 

BEAT  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a*  ftrong 
froth,  put  them  into  a  toffing  pan,  with  two 
fpoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water,  two  ounces  of 
fugar,  ftir  it  gently  for  three  or  four  minutes, 
then  pour  it   into  your  difh,  and   pour   good 

melted  butter  over  it,  and  fend  it  in  hot. 

It  is  a  pretty  corner   difh  for   a  fecond  courfe 
at  dinner. 

To  make  Tea  Cream. 

TO  half  a  pint  of  milk  put  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  fine  hyfon  tea,  boil  them  together, 
ftrain  the  leaves  out,  and  put  to  the  milk  half  a 

pint 


254  ^HE  EXPERIENCED 

pint  of  cream,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of  rennet  j 
fet  it  over  fome  hot  embers  in  the  difh  you  fend 
it  to  table  in,  and  cover  it  with  a  tin  plate  j 
when  it  is  thick  it  is  enough.  Garnifh  with 
fvveetmeats  and  fend  it  up. 

To  make  King  William's  Cream. 

BEAT  the  whites  of  three  eggs  very  well, 
then  fqueeze  out  the  juice  of  two  large  or  three 
fmall  lemons;  take  two  ounces  more  than  the 
weight  of  the  juice  of  double  refined  fugar,  ^nd 
mix  it  together  with  two  or  three  drops  of  orange 
flower  water;  and  five  or  fix  fpoonfuls  of  fair 
fpring  water;  when  all  the  fugar  is  melted,  put 
in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  the  pan  and  the 
juice,  fet  it  over  a  ilow  fire,  and  keep  ftirring  it 
till  you  find  it  thicken,  then  drain  it  through  a 
coarfe  cloth  quick  into  the  difh. 

Snow  and  Cream,  a  pretty  Suffer  Difh. 

MAKE  a  rich  boiled  cuftard  and  put  it  in 
the  bottom  of  your  china  or  glaft  difh,  then 
take  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beat  with  rofc 
water  and  a  fpoonful  of  treble  refined  fugar, 
till  it  is  a  ftrong  froth;  put  fome  milk  and  wa- 
ter into  a  broad  itew-pan,  and  when  it  boils 
take  the  froth  off"  the  eggs  and  lay  it  on  the  milk 
and  water,  and  let  it  boil  once  up  ;  take  it  off 
Carefully,  ^nd  lay  it  on  your  cuftard. 


<r* 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       255 

To  make  Cream  Cheese* 

PUT  one  large  fpoonful  of  fteep  to  five 
quarts  of  afterings,  break  it  down  light,  put  it 
upon  a  cloth  in  a  fieve  bottom,  and  let  it  run 
till  dry,  break  it,  cut  and  turn  it  in  a  clean 
cloth/then  put  it  into  the  fieve  again,  and  put 
on  it  a  two  pound  weight,  fprinklea  little  fait 
on  it  and  let  it  ftand  all  night,  then  lay  it  on  a 
board  to  dry,  when  dry  lay  a  few  ftrawberry 
leaves  on  it,  and  ripen  it  between  two  pewter 
difhes  in  a  warm  place,  turn  it,  and  put  on  frefh 
leaves  every  day. 

To  make  a  Trifle. 

PUT  three  large  maccaroons  in  the  middle  of* 
your  dim,  pour  as  much  white  wine  over  them 
as  they  will  drink,  then  take  a  quart  of  cream, 
put  in  as  much  fugaras  will  make  it  fweet,  rub 
your  fugar  upon  the  rind  of  a  lemon  to  fetch  out 
the  effence,  put  your  cream  into  a  pot,  mill  it 
to  a  ftrong  froth,  lay  as  much  froth  upon  a  fieve 
as  will  fill  the  difh  you  intend  to  put  your  trifle 
in,  put  the  remainder  of  your  cream  into,  a 
tofling  pan,  with  a  itick  of  cinnamon,  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  wrell  beat,  and  fugar  to  your  tafte, 
fetthem  over  a  gentle  fire,  ftirit  one  way  till  it 
is  thick,  then  take  it  off  the  fire,  pour  it  upon 
your  maccaroons,  when  it  is  cold  put  on  your 
frothed  cream,  lay  round  it  different  coloured 
fweetmeats,  and  fmall  (hot  comfits  in,  and  fi- 
gures or  flowers. 

Almonds 


±fi  THE    EXPERIENCED 

Almond  Custards. 

PUT  a  quart  of  cream  into  a  to  fling  pan,  £ 
ftick  of  cinnamon,  a  blade  or  two  of  ma£e,  boil 
it  and  fet  it  to  cool,  blanch  two  c;;nces  of  al- 
monds, beat  them  fine  in  a  marble  mortar  with 
rofe  water,  if  you  like  a  ratafia  tafte,  put  in  a 
few  apricot  kernels  or  bitter  almonds,  mix  them 
with  your  cream.,  Twee  ten  it  to  your  tafte,  fet 
it  on  a  flow  Are,  keep  ftirring  it  till  it  is  pretty 
thick,  if  you  let  it  boil  it  will  curdle,  pour  it 
into  cups,  &c. 

To  make  Lemon  Custards. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  white  wine,  half  a  pound  of 
double  refined  fugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons* 
the  out-rind  of  one  pared  very  thin,  the  inner- 
rind  of  one  boiled  tender  and  rubbed  through  a 
fieve,  let  them  boil  a  good  while,  then  take  out 
the  peel  and  a  little  of  the  liquor,  fet  it  to  cool, 
pour  the  reft  into  the  diih  you  intend  for  it ;  beat 
four  yolks  and  two  whites  of  eggs,  mix  them 
with  your  cool  liquor,  ftrain  them  into  your 
difh,  ftir  them  well  up  together,  fet  them  on  a 
flow  fire,  or  boiling  water  to  bake  as  a  cuftard, 
when  it  is  enough,  grate  the  rind  of  a  lemon 
all  over  the  top;   you  may  brown  it  over  with 

a  hot  falamander. It  may  be  eat  either  hot 

or  cold. 

To  make  Orange  Custards. 

BOIL  the  rind  of  half  a  Seville  orange  very 
tender,  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar  till  it  is  very 

fine, 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  257 
fine,  put  to  it  one  fpoonful  of  the  beft  brandy, 
the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  four  ounces  of  loaf 
fugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat  them  all 
together  tQn  minutes,  then  pour  in  by  degrees  a 
pint  of  boiling  cream,  keep  beating  them  till 
they  are  cold,  put  them  in  cuftard  cups,  and 
fet  them  in  an  earthen  dim  of  hot  water,  let 
them  ftand  till  they  are  fet,  then  take  them  out, 
and  flick  preferved  orange  on  the  top,  and  ferve 
them  up  either  hot  or  cold. — It  is  a  pretty  cor- 
ner difh  for  dinner,  or  a  fide  difh  for  fupper. 

To  make  a  common  Custard. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  good  cream,  fet  it  over  a 
flow  fire,  with  a  little  cinnamon,  and  four  ounces 
of  fugar ;  when  it  has  boiled  take  it  off  the  fire  ; 
beat  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  put  to  them  a 
fpoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  to  prevent  the 
cream  from  cracking,  ftir  them  in  by  degrees  as 
your  cream  cools,  put  the  pan  over  a  very  flow 
fire,  ftir  them  carefully  one  way  till  it  is  al- 
mofl  boiling,  then  put  it  into  cups,  and  ferve 
them  up. 

To  make  a  Beest  Custard. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  beeft,  fet  it  over  the  fire, 
with  a  little  cinnamon,  or  three  bay  leaves,  let  it 
be  boiling  hot,  then  take  it  off,  and  have  ready 
mixed  one  fpoonful  of  flour,  and  a  fpoonful  of 
thick  cream,  pour  your  hot  beeft  upon  it  by 
degrees,  mix  it  exceeding  well  together,  and 
fweeten  it  to  your  tafte ;  you  may  either  put  it 
in  crufts  or  cups,  or  bake  it. 

S  T0 


252  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  make  an  Apple  Floating  Island. 

BAKE  fix  or  eight  very  large  apples,  when 
they  are  cold  peel  and  core  them,  rub  the  pulp 
through  a  fieve  with  the  back  of  a  wooden 
fpoon,  then  beat  it  up  light  with  fine  fugar,  well 
lifted,  to  your  tafte  j  beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  with  orange  flower  water  in  another  bowl 
till  it  is  a  light  froth,  then  mix  it  with  your 
apple  a  little  at  a  time  till  all  is  beat  together, 
and  exceeding  light ;  make  a  rich  boiled  cuf- 
tard,  and  put  it  in  a  china  or  glafs  dim,  and  lay 
the  apples  all  over  it.  Garnifh  with  currant 
jelly,  or  what  you  pleafe. 

To  make  Fairy  Butter. 

TAKE  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  boiled  hard, 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  beat  two  ounces 
of  fugar  in  a  large  ipoonful  of  orange  flower 
water,  beat  them  all  together  to  a  fine  parte,  let 
it  ftand  two  or  three  hours,  then  rub  it  through 
a  cullendar  upon  a  plate  -?  it  looks  very  pretty. 

To  ?nake  Almond  Cheese  Cakes. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  Jordan  almonds, 
blanch  them  and  put  them  into  cold  water,  beat 
them  with  rofe  water  in  a  marble  mortar,  or 
wooden  bowl,  with  a  wooden  peftle,  put  to  it  four 
ounces  of  fugar,  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
beat  fine,  work  it  in  the  mortar  or  bowl  till  it 
becomes  white  and  frothy,  then  make  a  rich  puff 
pafte,  which  muft  be  made  thus  :  Take  half  a 
pound  of  flour,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter, 

rub 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.'  259 
i^ub  a  little  of  the  butter  into  the  flour,  mix  it 
ftifFwith  a  little  cold  water,  then  roll  your  parte 
ftraight  out,  ftrew  over  a  little  flour,  and  lay  over 
it  in  thin  bits  one  third  of  your  butter,  throw 
a  little  more  flour  over  the  butter,  do  fo  for 
three  times,  then  put  your  parte  in  your  tins, 
fill  them,  and  grate  fugar  over  them,  and  bake 
them  in  a  gentle  oven. 

To  make  Bread  Cheese  Cakes. 

SLICE  a  penny  loaf  as  thin  as  poflible,  pour 
On  it  a  pint  of  boiling  cream,  let  it  ftand  two 
hours,  then  take  eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of 
butter,  and  a  nutmeg  grated,  beat  them  well 
together,  put  in  half  a  pound  of  currants  well 
wafhed,  and  dried  before  the  fire,  and  a  fpoon- 
ful  of  brandy,  or  white  wine,  and  bake  them 
in  raifed  crufts,  or  petty  pans. 

To  make  Citron  Cheese  Cakes. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  cream,  beat  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  mix  them  with  your  cream  when  it  is 
cold,  then  fet  it  on  the  fire,  let  it  boil  till  it 
curds,  blanch  fome  almonds,  beat  them  with 
orange  flower  water,  put  them  into  the  cream, 
with  a  few  Naples  bifcuits,  and  green  citron, 
fhred  fine,  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte,  and  bake 
them  in  tea-cups. 

To  make  Rice  Cheese  Cakes. 

BOIL  four  ounces  of  rice  till  tender,  put  it 
upon  a  fieve  to  drain,  put  in  four  eggs  well  beat- 
en, half  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  pint  of  cream, 

S  2  fix 


z6o  THE   EXPERIENCED 

fix  ounces  of  fugar,  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  a  glafs 
of  ratafia  water,  or  brandy :  beat  them  all  to~ 
gether,  and  bake  them  in  raifed  crufts. 

To  make  Curd  Cheese-Cakes. 

TAKE  half  a  pint  of  good  curds,  beat  them 
with  four  eggs,  three  fpoonfuls  of  rich  cream, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one  fpoonful  of  ratafia* 
rofe,  or  orange  water,  put  to  them  a  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  fugar,  half  a  pound  of  currants  well 
warned  and  dried  before  the  fire,  mix  them  all 
well  together,  and  bake  it  in  petty  pans,  with 
a  good  cruft  under  them. 

To  make  Orange  Crumpets. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  cream,  and  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  warm  it,  and  put  in  it  a  little  runnet,  when 
it  is  broke,  ftir  it  gently,  lay  it  on  a  cloth  to  drain 
all  night,and  then  take  the  rinds  of  three  oranges, 
boiled  as  for  preferving  in  three  different  waters, 
pound  them  very  fine,  and  mix  them  with  the 
curd,  and  eight  eggs,  in  a  mortar,  a  little  nut- 
meg, juice  of  lemon,  or  orange,  and  fugar  to 
your  tafte,  bake  them  in  tin  pans  rubbed  with 
butter,  when  they  are  baked  turn  them  out,  and 
put  fack  and  fugar  over  them. — Some  put  dices 
of  preffed  oranges  among  them. 

To  make  Cheese-Cakes. 

SET  a  quart  of  new  milk  near  the  fire,  with 
a  fpoonful  of  runnet,  let  the  milk  be  olood  warm, 
when  it  is  broke,  drain  the  curd  through  a  coarfc 
cloth,  now  and  then  break  the  curd  gently  with 

your 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.     261 

your  fingers,  rub  into  the  curd  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fugar, 
a  nutmeg,  and  two  Naples  bifcuits  grated,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  white  of  one  egg, 
one  ounce  of  almonds  well  beat,  with  two 
fpoonfuls  of  rofe  water,  and  two  of  fack,  clean 
fix  ounces  of  currants  very  well,  put  them  into 
your  curd,  and  mix  them  all  well  together. 

TomakeCvRD  Puffs. 

TAKE  two  quarts  of  milk,  put  a  little  run- 
net  in  it,  when  it  is  broke,  put  it  in  a  coarfe  cloth 
to  drain,  then  rub  the  curd  through  a  hair  fieve 
with  four  ounces  of  butter  beat,  ten  ounces  of 
bread,  half  a  nutmeg,  and  a  lemon  peel  grated, 
a-fpoonful  of  wine,  andfugar  to  your  tafte,  rub 
your  cups  with  butter,  and  bake  them  a  little 
more  than  half  an  hour. 

To  make  Egg  Cheese. 

BEAT  fix  eggs  well,  put  them  into  three  gills 
of  new  milk,  iugar,  cinnamon,  and  lemon  peel 
to  your  tafte,  let  it  over  the  fire,  keep  ftirring 
it,  and  fqueeze  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  in  it  to  turn 
it  to  cheeie,  let  it  run  into  what  fhape  you  would 
have  it,  when  it  is  cold,  turn  it  out,  pour  over 
it  a  little  almond  cream,  made  of  fweet  almonds 
beat  fine  with  a  little  cream,  then  put  them  into 
a  pint  of  cream,  let  it  boil  and  ftrain  it,  put  to 
it  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beat,  fet  it  over 
the  fire,  and  make  it  like  a  cuftard. 


?Q 


262  THE    EXPERIENCED 

T*  mmkt  *  Loai  7, : 

TAK  E  :  F:; 

roil  s.  n,  put   tc 

:  t  ggs     i  little  c  igc 

:  r  taftc    when  it 

Uj   let  it  : 
night 

rod 

-imps  oi  marrow  in  r  ;:d, 

Mange  ped  in 

:  ? .-  :    7  :  - 

7.-  I  .7         ill  1  •    :    ."if  :; 

rgg,    C_ 

.i  iuga:  :: 
ith  i: 

- 

'Tz maie  a"D:  7 

TAKE  i   French  i 

::  .urap 

"Ill  it    :  nd  fa 


HOUSE-KEEPER.      2*3 

::  ::  :  -*     *      ::  n     '-'  '-  '-- :  r  -    '-  ' '--'-  '-  "-*-  -" 

-     . 
; .  u  •  -         :::_::  .1 : :  - : ". "  : : ""       "       a 

:  :t  :     : .7.  :"::     -::  tr 

7:    T-r-r   :     :_  Z.-.il: 

F  -.  "    \    .      -         .  : 

z:  _ . :  ;:    11  -.1..     ~z.zz.zt  ;.    1  ~  1  ;_::*  fzi  . ~  1 
:  -  ir.zzi-z-ziz,  inks 


i7  :    r:  -."  .-.  i:  :  .:  1  Twin  :: 

:"-:  :r.i~    1  r:::   i_    -    -1  :::=:  :    r  £-;  :    .  :itr 

::        ._  1  J 

- _  -       -    .    — r      __  ; 

t.  ■.:_::  : .:   i."  it;  ::  ..::-*. 

7;    -j.:/  7?  :i:  7:  -_:7 

_  _  .  :  _  :  t  :;:   :!.::_*  .' 

:.ttz     :  -i    r: ; z  :tzzz     ~-  .'.:  -Z.z  izz  zzzzztz 

::      :  _ :   '.r.t     ~~  /:;   .:  :i   :_  r  .;:      :_:  .  £"-•-'- 

.  : 


: :-:  a  ? 


264  THE    EXPERIENCED 

CHAP.     XL 

Obfervations  upon  Cakes. 

WHEN  you  make  any  kind  of  cakes,  be 
fure  that  you  get  the  things  ready  be- 
fore you  begin,  then  beat  your  eggs  well,  and 
do  not  leave  them  till  you  have  finished  the  cakes, 
or  elfe  they,  will  go  back  again,  and  your  cakes 
will  not  be  light  3  if  your  cakes  are  to  have  but- 
ter in,  take  care  you  beat  it  to  a  fine  cream  be- 
fore you  put  in  your  fugar,  for  if  you  beat  it 
twice  the  time,  it  will  not  anfwer  fo  well :  as 
to  plum-cake,  feed-cake,  or  rice-cake,  it  is 
b eft  to  bake  them  in  wooden  garths,  for  if  you 
bake  them  in  either  pot  or  tin,  they  burn  the 
outfide  of  the  cakes,  and  confine  them  fo  that 
the  heat  cannot  penetrate  into  the  middle  of 
your  cake,  and  prevents  it  from  rifing :  bake  all 
kinds  of  cake  in  a  good  oven,  according  to  the 
fjze  of  your  cake,  and  follow  the  directions  of 
your  receipt,  for  though  care  hath  been  taken 
to  weigh  and  meafure  every  article  belonging  to 
every  kind  of  cake,  yet  the  management  and  the 
oven  mult  be  left  to  the  maker's  care. 

To  make  a  Bride  Cake. 

TAKE  four  pounds  of  fine  flour  well  dried, 
four  pounds  of  freih  butter,  two  pounds  of  loaf 
fugar,  pound  and  lift  fine  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
of  mace  the  lame  of  nutmegs,  to  every  pound 
of  flour  put  eight  eggs,  warn  four  pounds  of 
currants,  pick  them  well,  and  dry  them  before 

the 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      26,5 

the  fire,  blanch  a  pound  of  fweet  almonds,  and 
cut  them  lengthways  very  thin,  a  pound  of 
citron,  one  pound  of  candied  orange,  the  fame 
of  candied  lemon,  half  a  pint  of  brandy ;  firft 
work  the  butter  with  your  hand  to  a  cream,  then, 
beat  in  your  fugara  quarter  of  an  hour,  beat  the 
whites  of  your  eggs  to  a  very  ftrong  froth,  mix 
them  with  your  fugar  and  butter,  beat  your  yolks 
half  an  hour  at  leaf!:,  and  mix  them  with  your 
cake,  then  put  in  your  flour,  mace,  and  nut- 
meg, keep  beating  it  well  till  your  oven  is  ready, 
put  in  your  brandy,  and  beat  your  currants  and 
almonds  lightly  in,  tie  three  meets  of  paper 
round  the  bottom  of  your  hoop  to  keep  it  from 
running  out,  rub  it  well  with  butter,  put  in  your 
cake,  and  lay  your  fweetmeats  in  three  lays,  with 
cake  betwixt  every  lay,  after  it  is  rifen  and  co- 
loured, cover  it  with  paper  before  your  oven  is 
flopped  up;  it  will  take  three  hours  baking. 

To  make  Almond-Icing  for  the  Bride  Cake. 

BEAT  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  ftrong 
froth,  beat  a  pound  of  Jordan  almonds  very  fine 
with  rofe-water,mix  your  almonds  with  the  eggs 
lightly  together,  a  pound  of  common  loaf  fugar 
beat  fine,  and  put  in  by  degrees  ;  when  your  cake 
is  enough,  take  it  out,  and  lay  your  icing  on, 
then  put  it  in  to  brown. 

To  make  Sugar  Icing  for  the  Bride  Cake. 

BEAT  two  pounds  of  double  refined  fugar, 
with  two  ounces  of  fine  ftarch,  lift  it  through  a 
gauze  iieve,  then   beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs 

with 


266  THE    EXPERIENCED 

with  a  knife  upon  a  pewter  difh  half  an  hour  * 
beat  in  your  fugar  a  little  at  a  time,  or  it  will 
make  the  eggs  fall,  and  will  not  be  fo  good  a 
colour,  when  you  have  put  in  all  your  fugar, 
beat  it  half  an  hour  longer,  then  lay  it  on  your 
almond  iceing,  and  fpread  it  even  with  a  knife  $ 
if  it  be  put  on  as  foon  as  the  cake  comes  out  of 
the  oven  it  will  be  hard  by  the  time  the  cake 
is  cold. 

To  make  a  good  Plum  Cake. 

TAKE  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour  well 
dried,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter,  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  currants  wafhed  and  welj 
picked,  ftone  half  a  pound  of  raifins,  and  flice 
them,  eighteen  ounces  of  fugar  beat  and  lifted, 
fourteen  eggs,  leave  out  the  whites  of  half  of 
them,  >fhred  the  peel  of  a  large  lemon  exceeds 
ing  fine,  three  ounces  of  candied  orange,  the 
fame  of  lemon,  a  tea-fpoonful  of  beaten  mace, 
half  a  nutmeg  grated?  a  tea-cupful  of  brandy,  or 
white  wine,  four  fpoonfuls  of  orange  flower 
water;  firft  work  the  butter  with  your  hand  tq 
a  cream,  then  beat  your  fugar  well  in,  whiflc 
your  eggs  for  half  an  hour,  then  mix  them  with 
your  fugar  and  butter,  and  put  in  your  flour  and 
fpices,  when  your  oven  is  ready,  mix  your 
brandy,  fruit,  and  fweetmeats  lightly  in,  then 
put  it  in  your  hoop,  and  fend  it  to  the  oven  ;  it 
will  require  two  hours  and  a  half  baking.— It 
will  take  an  hour  and  a  half  beating. 


To 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      267 

To  make  a  rich  Seed  Cake, 

TAKE  a  pound  of  flour  well  dried,  a  pound 
of  butter,  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar  beat  and  lifted, 
eight  eggs,  two  ounces  of  carraway  feeds,  one 
nutmeg  grated,  and  its  weight  of  cinnamon ; 
firft  beat  your  butter  to  a  cream,  then  put  in 
your  fugar,  beat  the  whites  of  your  eggs  half 
an  hour,  mix  them  with  your  fugar  and  butter, 
then  beat  the  yolks  half  an  hour,  put  to  it  the 
"whites,  beat  in  your  flour,  fpices,  and  feeds,  a 
little  before  it  goes  to  the  oven,  put  it  in  the 
hoop  and  bake  it  two  hours  in  a  quick  oven,  and 
let  it  (land  two  hours. — It  will  take  two  hour§ 
beating. 

To  make  a  White  Plum  Cake, 

TO  two  pounds  of  flour  well  dried,  take  a 
pound  of  fugar  beat  and  fifted,  one  pound  of 
butter,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the  fame 
of  nutmegs,  fixteen  eggs,  two  pounds  and  a 
half  of  currants,  picked  and  waihed,  half  a 
pound  of  candied  lemon,  the  fame  of  fweet  al- 
monds, half  a  pint  of  lack  or  brandy,  three 
Ipoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water,  beat  your  but- 
ter to  a  cream,  put  in  your  fugar,  beat  the  whites 
of  your  eggs  half  an  hour,  mix  them  with  your 
fugar  and  butter,  then  beat  your  yolks  half  an 
hour,  mix  them  with  your  whites,  it  will  take 
two  hours  beating,  put  in  your  flour  a  little  be- 
fore your  oven  is  ready,  mix  your  currants  and 
all  your  other  ingredients  lightly  in,  juft  when 
you  put  it  in  your  hoop,— Two  hours  will  bake 

% 


268  THE  .EXPERIENCED 

To  make  little  Plum  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  flour,  rub  it  into  half  a 
pound  of  butter,  the  fame  of  fugar,  a  little  beaten 
mace,  beat  four  eggs  very  well  (leave  out  half 
the  whites)  with  three  fpoonfuls  of  yeft,  put  to 
it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  warm  cream,  ftrain 
them  into  your  flour,  and  make  it  up  light,  fet 
it  before  the  fire  to  rife;  juft  before  you  fend  it 
to  the  oven,  put  in  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
currants, 

31?  make  Orange  Cakes; 

TAKE  Seville  oranges  that  have  vtry  good 
rinds,  quarter  them,  and  boil  them  in  two  or 
three  waters  until  they  are  tender,  and  the  bit— 
ttrncfs  is  gone  off,  fcum  them,  then  lay  them 
on  a  clean  napkin  to  dry,  take  all  the  feeds  and 
fkins  out  of  the  pulp  with  a  knife,  fhred  the 
peels  fine,  put  them  to  the  pulp,  weigh  them, 
and  put  rather  more  than  their  weight  of  fine 
fugar  into  a  toffing  pan,  with  juft:  as  much  water 
as  will  difiblve  it,  boil  it  till  it  becomes  a  per- 
fect fugar,  then  by  degrees  put  in  your  orange 
peels  and  pulp,  ftir  them  well  before  you  fet 
them  on  the  fire,  boil  it  very  gently  till  it  looks 
clear  and  thick,  then  put  it  into  fiat-bottomed 
glafies,  fet  them  in  a  ftoye,  and  keep  a  con  flan  t 
moderate  heat  to  them,  when  they  are  candied 
on  the  top,  turn  them  out  upon  glaffes. 

JV.  B.  You  may  make  lemon  cakes  the  fame 
v/ay. 

To 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.      269 

To  make  Lemon  Cake  a  fecond  Way. 

BEAT  the  whites  of  ten  eggs  with  a  whifk 
for  one  hour  with  three  fpoonfuls  of  rofe  or 
orange  flower  water,  then  put  in  one  pound  of 
loaf  fugar  beat  and  fifted,  with  the  yellow  rind 
of  a  lemon  grated  into  it ;  when  it  is  well  mixed 
put  in  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  the  yolks 
of  ten  eggs  beat  fmooth,  and  juft  before  you 
put  it  into  the  oven  ftir  in  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  flour;  butter  your  pan,  and  one  hour 
will  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven. 

To  make  Rice  Cake. 

TAKE  fifteen  eggs,  leave  out  one  half  of 
the  whites,  beat  them  exceeding  wrell  near  an 
hour  with  a  whifk,  then  beat  the  yolks  half  an 
hour,  put  to  your  yolks  ten  ounces  of  loaf  fugar 
fifted  fine,  beat  it  well  in,  then  put  in  half  a 
pound  of  rice  flour,  a  little^  orange  water  or 
brandy,  the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated,  then 
put  in  your  whites,  beat  them  all  well  together 
for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  them  in  a  hoop 
and  fet  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

To  make  Ratafia  Cakes. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  fweet  almonds,  the 
fame  quantity  of  bitter,  blanch  and  beat  them 
fine  in  orange,  rofe,  or  clear  water,  to  keep  them 
from  oiling,  pound  and  fift  a  pound  of  fine 
fugar,  mix  it  with  your  almonds,  have  ready 
Tery^well   beat,  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  mix 

them 


iy©  THE    EXPERIENCED 

them  lightly  with*  the  almonds  and  fugar,  put  it 
in  a  preferving  pan,  and  fet  it  over  a  moderate 
fire,  keep  flirring  it  quick  one  way  until  it  is 
pretty  hot,  when  it  is  a  little  cool  roll  it  in 
fmall  rolls,  and  cut  it  in  thin  cakes,  dip  your 
hands  in  flour  and  fhake  them  on  it>  give  them 
each  a  light  tap  with  your  finger,  put  them  on 
fugar  papers,  and  fift  a  little  fine  fugar  over  them 
juft  as  you  are  putting  them  into  a  flow  oven. 

To  make  Ratafia  Cakes  a  fecond  Way. 

TAKE  one  pound  and  a  half  of  fweet  al- 
monds, and  half  a  pound  of  bitter  almonds, 
beat  them  as  fine  as  poffible  with  the  whites  of 
two  eggs,  then  beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a 
ftrong  froth,  fhake  in  lightly  two  pounds  and  a 
half  of  fine  loaf  fugar  beat  and  fifted  very  fine, 
drop  them  in  little,  drops  the  fize  of  a  nutmeg, 
on  cap  paper,  and  bake  them  in  a  flack  oven.     ■ 

To  make  Shrewsbury  Cakes. 

TAKE  half  a  pound  of  butter,  beat  it  to  a 
cream,  then  put  in  half  a  pound  of  flour,  one 
egg,  fix  ounces  of  loaf  fugar  beat  and  fifted,  half 
an  ounce  of  carraway  feeds  mixed  into  a  pafle, 
roll  them  thin,  and  cut  them  round  with  a  fmall 
glafs,  or  little  tins,,  prick  them,  and  lay  them  on 
iheets  of  tin,  and  bake  them  in  a  flow  oven., 

To  make  Shrewsbury  Cakes  a  fecond  Way. 

TO  a  pound  of  butter,  beat  and  fift  a  pound 
©f  double  refined  fugar,  a  little  mace*  and  four 

eggs, 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER,      zjl 

eggs,  beat  them  all  together  %ith  your  hand  till 
it  is  very  light  and  looks  curdling,  then  (hake 
in  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fine,  flour,  roll  it  thin 
and  cut  it  into  little  cakes  with  a  tin,  and  bake 
them. 

To  make  Bath  Cakes. 

RUB  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  pound  of 
flour,  and  one  fpoonful  of  good  barm,  warm 
fome  cream,  and  make  it  into  a  light  pafte,  fet 
it  to  the  fire  to  rife,  when  you  make  them  upy 
take  four  ounces  of  carraway  comfits,  work  part 
of  them  in,  and  ftrew  the  reft  on  the  top,  make 
them  into  a  round  cake,  the  fize  of  a  French  roll, 
bake  them  on  iheet  tins,  and  fend  them  in  hot 
for  breakfaft. 

To  make  Queen  Cakes. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  beat  and  lift  it, 
a  pound  of  flour  well  dried,  a  pound  of  butter, 
eight  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  currants  warned  and 
picked,  grate  a  nutmeg,  the  fame  quantity  of 
mace  and  cinnamon,  work  your  butter  to  a 
cream,  then  put  in  your  fugar,  beat  the  whites 
of  your  eggs  near  half  an  hour,  mix  them  with 
your  fugar  and  butter,  then  beat  your  yolks  near 
half  an  hour,  and  put  them  to  your  butter,  beat 
them  exceeding  well  together,  then  put  in  your 
flour,  fpices,  and  the  currants,  when  it  is  ready 
for  the  oven,  bake  them  in  tins,  and  duft  a  little 
fugar  over  them. 

2V 


172  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  make  a  common  Seed  Cake. 

TAKE  two  pounds  of  flour,  rub  it  into  half  a 
pound  of  powdered  fugar,  one  ounce  of  carraway 
feeds  beaten,  have  ready  a  pint  of  milk,  with 
half  a  pound  of  butter  melted^in  it,  and  two 
fpoonfuls  of  new  barm,  make  it  up  into  a  pafte, 
fet  it  to  the  fire  to  rife,  flour  your  tin,  and  bake 
it  in  a  quick  oven. 

To  make  Cream  Cakes. 

BEAT  the  whites  of  nine  eggs  to  a  ftifT  froth, 
then  ftir  it  gently  with  a  fpoon,  for  fear  the 
froth  mould  fall,  and  grate  the  rinds  of  two 
lemons,  to  every  white  of  an  cgg9  make  in 
foftly  a  fpoonful  of  double  refined  fugar  fifted 
fine,  lay  a  wet  meet  of  paper  on  a  tin,  and  drop 
the  froth  in  little  lumps  on  it  with  a  fpoon,  a 
fmall  diftance  from  each  other,  and  lift  a  good 
quantity  of  fugar  over  them,  fet  them  in  an  oven 
after  brown  bread,  make  the  oven  clofe  up,  and 
the  froth  will  rife,  when  they  are  ju ft  coloured 
they  are  baked  enough,  take  them  out  and  put 
two  bottoms  together,  and  lay  them  on  a  fieve, 
then  fet  them  in  a  cool  oven  to  dry, — You  may 
lay  rafpberry  jam,  or  any  other  forts  offweet- 
meats  betwixt  them  before  you  clofe  the  bot- 
toms together  to  dry. 

To  make  little  Currant  Cakes. 

TAKE  one  pound  and  a  half  of  fine  flour, 

dry  it  well  before  the  fire,  a  pound  of  butter, 

I  half 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.      ij% 

half  a  pound  of  fine  loaf  fugar  well  beat  and 
fifted,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  four  fpoonfuls  of 
rofe  water,  four  fpoonfuls  of  fack,  a  little  mace, 
and  one  nutmeg  grated  :  beat  the  eggs  very  well, 
and  put  them  to  the  rofe  water  and  fack,  then 
put  to  it  the  fugar  and  butter;  work  them  all 
together,  ftrew  in  the  currants  and  the  flour, 
being  both  made  warm  together  before. — This 
quantity  will  make  fix  or  eight  cakes;  bake 
them  pretty  crifp,  and  a  fine  brown. 

To  make  Prussian  Cake. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  fugar  beat  and  fifted, 
half  a  pound  of  flour  dried,  itvtn  eggs,  beat 
the  yolks  and  whites  feparate,  the  juice  of  one 
lemon,  the  peel  of  two  grated  very  fine,  half  a 
pound  of  almonds  beat  line  with  rofe  water  ;  as 
foon  as  the  whites  are  beat  to  a  froth,  put  in  all 
the  things  except  the  flour,  and  beat  them  to- 
gether for  half  an  hour,  juft  before  you  fet  it  in 
the  oven,  (hake  in  the  flour. — N.  B.  The  whites 
and  yolks  mull  be  beat  feparate,  or  it  will  be 
quite  heavy. 

To  make  a  Caj£e  without  butter. 

BEAT  eight  eggs  half  an  hour,  have  ready 
pounded  and  fifted  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  (hake 
it  in,  and  beat  it  half  an  hour  more,  put  ro  it  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fvveet  almonds  beat  fine, 
with  orange  flour  water,  grate  the  rind  of  a 
lemon  into  the  almonds,  and  fqueeze  in  the  juice 
of  the  lemon,  mix  them  all  together,  and  keep 

T  beating 


274  THE  EXPERIENCED 

beating  them  till  the  oven  is  ready,  and  jufl;  be- 
fore you  fet  it  in,  put  to  it  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  warm  dry  fine  flour  j  rub  your  hoop 
with  butter :  an  hour  and  a  half  will  bake  it, 

TomakeBARBAVOEs  Jumballs. 

BEAT  very  light  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  eight,  with  a  fpoonful  of  rofe 
water,  and  duft  in  a  pound  of  treble  refined 
fugar,  then  put  in  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
the  beft  fine  flour,  ftir  it  lightly  in,  greafe  your 
tin  fheets,  and  drop  them  in  the  fhape  of  a 
macaroon,  and  bake  them  nicely. 

To  make  Chacknels. 

TO  a  pint  of  blue  milk  put  about  two  ounces 
of  butter  and  a  good  fpoonful  of  yeft,  make  it 
jufl  warm,  and  mix  into  it  as  much  fine  flour  as 
will  make  it  alight  dough,  roll  it  out  very  thin, 
and  cut  it  into  long  pieces  two  inches  broad, 
prick  them  well,  and  bake  them  in  a  flow  oven 
upon  tin  plates. 

To  make  Light  Wigs. 

TO  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine  flour, 
put  half  a  pint  of  milk  made  warm,  mix  in  it 
two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  light  barm,  cover  it  up, 
fet  it  half  an  hour  by  the  fire  to  rife,  work  in 
thepafte  four  ounces  of  fugar,  and  four  ounces 
of  butter,  make  it  into  wigs  with  as  little  flour 
as  poffibJe,  and  a  few  feeds,  fet  them  in  a  quick 
oven  to  bake. 

To 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      27s 

To  make  Macaroons. 

TO  one  pound  of  blanched  and  beaten  fweet 
almonds,  put  one  pound  of  fugar,  and  a  little 
rofe  water,  to  keep  them  from  oiling,  then  beat 
the  whites  offeven  eggs  to  a  froth,  put  them  in 
and  beat  them  well  together,  drop  them  on  wafer 
paper,  grate  fugar  over  them,  and  bake  them* 

To  make  Spanish  Biscuits. 

BEAT  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  near  half  an 
hour,  then  beat  in  eight  fpoonfuls  of  fugar,  beat 
the  whites  to  a  ftrong  froth,  then  beat  them  very 
well  with  your  yolks  and  fugar  near  half  an  hour, 
put  in  four  fpoonfuls  of  flour,  and  a  little  lemon 
cut  exceeding  fine,  and  bake  them  en  papers. 

To  make  Sponge  Biscuits. 

BEAT  the  yelks  of  twelve  eggs  half  an  hour, 
put  in  a  pound  and  a  half  of  fugar  beat  and  lift- 
ed, whifk  it  well  till  you  fee  it  rife  in  bub- 
bles, beat  the  whites  to  a  ftrong  froth,  whifk 
them  well  with  your  fugar  and  yolks,  beat  in 
fourteen  ounces  of  flour,  with  the  rinds  of  two 
lemons  grated,  bake  them  in  tin  moulds  but- 
tered, or  coffins ;  thsy  require  a  hot  oven,  the 
mouth  mult  not  be  flopped ;  when  you  put  them 
into  the  oven  duft  them  with  fugar;  they  will 
take  half  an  hour  baking. 


T  z  To 


276        THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Lemon  Biscuits. 

BEAT  very  well  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  and 
the  whites  of  five,  with  four  fpoonfuls  of  orange 
flower  water  till  they  froth  up,  then  put  in  a 
pound  of  loaf  fugar  rifted,  beat  it  one  way  for 
half  an  hour  or  more,  put  in  half  a  pound  of 
iiour  with  the  rafpings  of  two  lemons,  and  the 
pulp  of  a  fmall  one,  butter  your  tin,  and  bake 
it  in  a  quick  oven,  but  do  not  flop  up  the  mouth 
at  firft  for  fear  it  ihould  fcorch,  duft  it  with  fugar 
before  you  put  it  in  the  oven;  it  is  foon  baked. 

To  make  Drop  Biscuits. 

BEAT  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  and  the  whites 
of  fix,  with  one  fpoonful  of  rofe  water,  half  an 
hour,  then  put  in  ten  ounces  of  loaf  fugar  beat 
and  lifted,  whifk  them  well  for  half  an  hour, 
then  add  one  ounce  of  carraway  feeds  crufhed  a 
little,  and  fix  ounces  of  fine  flour,  whifk  in  your 
flour  gently,  drop  them  on  wafer  papers,  and 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

To  make  common  Biscuits. 

BEAT  eight  eggs  half  an  hour,  put  in  a 
pound  of  fugar  beat  and  fifted,  with  the  rind  of 
a  lemon  grated,  whifk  it  an  hour  till  it  looks 
light,  then  put  in  a  pound  of  flour,  with  a  lit- 
tle rofe  water,  and  bake  them  in  tins,  or  on 
papers,  with  fugar  over  them. 


To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      277 

To  make  Wafers. 

TAKE  two  fpoonfuls  of  cream,  two  of 
fugar,  the  fame  of  flour,  and  one  fpoonfal  of 
orange  flower  water,  beat  them  well  together 
for  half  an  hour,  then  make  your  wafer  tongs 
hot,  and  pour  a  little  of  your  batter  in  to  cover 
your  irons,  bake  them  on  a  ftove  fire,  as  they 
are  baked  roll  them  round  a  flick  like  a  fpig- 
got,  as  foon  as  they  are  cold,  they  will  be  very 
crifp ;  they  are  proper  for  tea,  or  to  put  upon  a 
falver  to  eat  with  jellies. 

To  make  Lemon  Puffs. 

BEAT  a  pound  of  double  refined  fugar,  fift 
it  through  afinefieve,  put  it  in  a  bowl,  with  the 
juice  of  two  lemons,  beat  them  well  together, 
then  beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  very  high 
froth,  put  it  in  your  bowl,  beat  it  half  an  hour  ; 
then  put  in  three  eggs,  with  two  rinds  of  lemons 
grated,  mix  it  well  up,  duft  your  papers  with 
fugar,  drop  on  the  puffs  in  fmall  drops,  and 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven. 

To  make  Chocolate  Puffs. 

BEAT  and  fift  half  a  pound  of  double  refined 
fugar,  fcrape  into  it  one  ounce  of  chocolate  very 
fine,  mix  them  together,  beat  the  white  of  an 
egg  to  a  very  high  froth,  then  ftrew  in  your 
fugar  and  chocolate  ;  keep  beating  it  till  it  is  as 
ftiffas  parte,  fugar  your  papers,  and  drop  them 
en  about  the  fize  of  a  fixpence,  and  bake  them 
in  a  very  flow  oven. 

T  3  To 


27$        THE  EXPERIENCED 


To  make  Almond  Puffs. 

BLANCH  two  ounces  of  fweet  alrrionds, 
beat  them  fine  with  orange  flower  water,  beat 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  very  high  froth, 
then  ftrew  in  a  little  lifted  fugar,  mix  your  al- 
monds with  your  fugar  and  eggs,  then  add  more 
fugar  till  it  is  as  ftiff  as  a  pafte,  lay  it  in  cakes^ 
and  bake  it  on  paper  in  a  cool  oven. 

To  make  Picklets. 

TAKE  three  pounds  of  flour,  make  a  hole 
In  the  middle  with  your  hand,  then  mix  twq 
fpoonfuls  of  barm,  with  as  much  milk  and  a 
little  fait  as  will  make  it  into  a  light  pafle,  pour 
your  milk  and  barm  into  the  middle  of  your 
flour  and  ftir  a  little  of  your  flour  into  it,  then 
let  it  itand  all  night,  and  the  next  morning 
work  all  the  flour  into  the  barm,  and  beat  it 
well  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  let  it  (land 
an  hour;  after  that  take  it  out  with  a  large 
fpoon,  and  lay  it  on  a  board  well  dulled  with 
flour,  and  dredge  flour  over  them  -7  pat  it  with 
your  hand,  and  bake  them  upon  your  bake? 
ilone. 

To  make  French  Bread. 

TAKE  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  flour,  one 
ounce  of  butter  melted  in  milk  and  water,  mix 
two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  barm  with  it,  ft  rain 
if  through  a  lie  ye,  beat  the  white  of  ^n  egg. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEENER.     279 

put  it  in  your  water  with  a  little  fait,  work  1$. 
up  to  a  light  pafte,  put  it  into  a  bowl,  then  pull 
it  into  pieces,  let  it  ftand  all  night,  then  work 
it  well  up  again,  cover  it,  and  lay  it  on  adreffer 
for  half  an  hour,  then  work  all  the  pieces  fepa- 
rate  and  make  them  into  rolls,  and  fet  them  in 
the  oven. 

To  make  White  Bread. 

TO  a  gallon  of  the  beft  flour,  put  fix  ounces 
©f  butter,  half  a  pint  of  good  ye  ft,  a  little 
fait,  break  two  eggs  into  a  bafon,  but  leave  out 
one  of  the  whites,  put  a  fpoonful  or  two  of 
water  to  them,  and  beat  them  up  to  a  froth, 
and  put  the.n  in  the  flour,  have  as  much  new 
milk  as  will  wet  it,  mak*,  it  juft  warm  and  mix 
it  up,  lay  a  handful  of  flour  and  drive  it  about, 
holding  one  hand  in  the  dough,  and  driving  it 
with  the  other  hand  till  it  is  quite  light,  then 
put  it  in  your  pan  again,  and  put  it  near  the 
fire  and  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  let  it  ftand 
an  hour  and  a  quarter  j  make  your  rolls  ten 
minutes  before  you  fet  them  in  the  oven,  and 
prick  them  with  a  fork;  if  they  are  the  bignefs 
of  a  French  roll,  three  quarters  of  $n  hour  will 
bake  them. 

To  make  Tea  Crumpets. 

BEAT  two  eggs  very  well,  put  to  them  a 
quart  of  warm  milk  and  water,  and  a  large 
fpoonful  of  barm  ;  beat  in  as  much  fine  flour 
M  will  make  them  rather  thicker  than  acommon 

T  4  batter 


28o  THE  EXPERIENCED 

batter  pudding,  then  make  your  bake-ftonc 
very  hot,  and  rub  it  with  a  little  butter  wrapped 
in  a  clean  linen  cloth,  then  pour  a  large  fpoon- 
ful  of  batter  upon  your  ftone,  and  let  it  run  to1 
the  fizeofa  tea  faucer  ;  turn  it,  and  when  you 
want  to  ufe  them  toaft  them  very  crifp  and  bat- 
ter them. 


CHAP.     XII. 
LITTLE    SAVORY-DISHES, 

To  ragoo  Piggs  Feet  and  Ears. 

OIL  your  feet  and  ears,  then  fplit  your  feet 
■  down  the  middle,  and  cut  the  ears  in  nar- 
row flices,  dip  them  in  batter,  and  fry  them  a 
good  brown,  put  a  little  beef  gravy  in  a  tolling- 
pan,  with  a  tea  fpconful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large 
one  of  mufhroom  catchup,  the  fame  of  brown- 
ing, and  a  little  fait,  thicken  it  with  a  lump  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  put  in  your  feet  and 
cars,  give  them  a  gentle  boil,  and  then  lay  your 
feet  in  the  middle  of  your  difli,  and  the  ears 
round  them;  drain  your  gravy  and  pour  it  over  : 

Garnifii  with   curled  parlley. It  is  a  pretty 

corner  difh  for  dinner. 

To  make  a  Solomon-gundy. 

TAKE  the  white  part  of  a  roafted  chicken, 
the  yolks  of  four  boiled  eggs,  andthe  vvbites'of 
f  he  fame,  two  pickled  herrings,  and  a  handful  of 

parfley. 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.'      281 

parfley,  chop  them  feparately  exceeding  finall, 
take  the  fame  quantity  of  lean  boiled  ham  fcraped 
fine,  turn  a  china  bafon  upfide  down  in  the  mid- 
dle of  a  dilh,  make  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  in  the  fhape  of  a  pine  apple  and  fet  it 
on  the  bafon  bottom,  lay  round  your  bafon  a 
ring  of  fhred  parfley,  then  a  ring  of  yolks  of 
eggs,  then  whites,  then  ham,  then  chicken, 
rhen  herring,  till  you  have  covered  your  bafon 
and  ufed  all  the  ingredients,  lay  the  bones  of 
the  pickled  herrings  upon  it  with  the  tails  up  to 
the  butter,  and  the  heads  lie  on  the  edge  of  the 
difh  ;  lay  a  few  capers,  and  three  or  four  pickled 
oyfters  round  your  difh,  and  fend  it  up. 

Solomon-gundy  a  fecond Way \ 

CHOP  all  the  ingredients,  as  for  the  firfr, 
mix  them  well  together,  and  put  in  the  middle 
of  your  difh  a  large  Seville  orange,  and  your 
ingredients  round  it,  rub  a  little  cold  butter 
through  a  fieve,  and  it  will  curl,  lay  it  in  lumps 
on  the  meat ;  flick  a  fprig  of  curled  parfley  on 
your  butter  and  ferve  it  up. 

To  roajl  a  Calf's  Heart. 

MAKE  a  forcemeat  with  the  crumbs  of  half 
a  penny  loaf,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beef  fuet 
fhred  fmall,  or  butter,  chop  a  little  parfley, 
fweet  marjoram,  and  lemon  peel,  mix  it  up 
with  a  little  nutmeg,  pepper,  fait,  and  the  yolk 
pf  an  egg,  fill  your  heart,  and  lay  over  the  fluff- 
ing a  caul  of  veal,  or  writing  paper,  to  keep  it 

in 
z 


282  THE   EXPERIENCED 

in  the  heart,  lay  it  in  aDuch  oven,  keep  turn- 
ing it  and  roaft  it  thoroughly;  when  you  di(h  it 
up,  pour  over  it  good  melted  butter,  and  lay  ffices 
of  lemon  round  it,  and  fend  it  to  table* 

To  drefs  a  Dijb  of  Lambs  Bits. 

SKIN  the  ftones  and  fplit  them,  lay  them  on 
a  dry  cloth  with  the  fweetbreads  and  liver,  r.nd 
dredge  them  well  with  flour,  and  fry  them  in 
boiling  lard,  or  butter,  a  light  brown,  then  jay 
them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  fry  a  good  quantity  >f 
parfley,  lay  your  bits  on  the  difh,  and  t  y 

in  lumps  overit,  pourmelted  butter  round  thei  u 

Tofricajfee  Calf's-Feet. 

BOIL  your  feet,  take  out  the  bones  and  cut 
the  meat  in  thin  iiices^,  and  put  it  into  a  tot 
pan,  with  half  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  boil  t 
a  little,  and  then  put  in  a  few  morels,  a  tea 
fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  little  mu&roqgi 
powder,  or  pickled  mulhrooms,  the  yelks  of 
four  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  a  little  fait,  thicken 
with  a  little  butter  rolled  in  flour,  mix  the  yolk 
pf  an  egg  with  a  tea  cupful  of  good  cream,  and 
half  a  nutmeg  grated,  put  it  in,  and  fhake  it 
over  the  fire,  butdonotlet  it  boil,  it  will  curdle 
the  milk  :  garnifti  with  lernon,  and  curled 
parfley.  . 

Chickens  in  Savory  Jelly. 

ROAST  two  chickens,  then  boil  a  gang  of 
palf  Vfeet  to  a  ftr'ong  jelly,  take  out  the  feet,7 

ikina 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     283 

ikim  off  the  fat,  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
very  well,  then  mix  them  with  half  a  pint  of 
white  wine  vinegar,  the  juice  of  three  lemons, 
a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  few  pepper  corns, 
and  a  little  fait,  put  them  to  your  jelly;  when  it 
has  boiled  five  or  fix  minutes,  run  it  through  a 
jelly  bag  feveral  times  till  it  is  very  clear,  then, 
put  a  little  in  the  bottom  of  a  bowl  that  will 
hold  your  chickens,  when  they  are  cold,  and 
the  jelly  quite  fet,  lay  them  in  with  their  breafts 
down,  then  fill  up  your  bowl  quite  full  with  the 
reft  of  your  jelly,  which  you  muft  take  care  to 
keep  from  fetting  (ib  that  when  you  pour  it 
into  your  bowl  it  will  not  break)  let  it  ftand 
all  night,  the  next  day  put  your  bafon  into  warm 
water,  pretty  near  the  top  ;  as  fobn  as  you  find 
it  loofe  in  the  bafon,  lay  your  dim  over  it,  and 
{urnit  out  upon  it. 

Pigeons  in  Savory  Jelly. 

ROAST  your  pigeons  with  the  head  and  feet 
on,  put  a  fprig  of  myrtle  in  their  bills,  make  a 
jelly  for  them  the  fame  way  as  for  the  chickens, 
pour  a  little  into  a  bafon,  when  it  is  fet  lay  in 
the  pigeons  with  their  breafts  down,  fill  up  your 
bowl  with  your  jelly,  and  turn  it  out  as  before. 

Sma/IBiRBs  in  Savory  Jelly. 

TAKE    eight  fmall  birds  with   their  heads 

and  feet  on,  put  a  good  lump  of  butter  in  them 

and  few  up  their  vents,  put  them  in  a  jug,  cover 

it  clofe   with  a  cloth,  fet  them  in  a  kettle  of 

2  boiling 


284  THE    EXPERIENCED 

boiling  water  till  they  are  enough,  drain  therm 
make  your  jelly  as  before,  put  a  little  into  a 
bafon,  when  it  is  fet,  lay  in  three  birds  with  their 
breads  down,  cover  them  with  the  jelly,  when 
it  is  fet  put  the  other  five  with  the  heads  in  the 
middle,  fill  up  your  bowl  with  jelly  as  before, 
and  turn  it  out  the  fame  way. 

Smelts  in  Savory  Jelly. 

GUT  and  warn  your  fmelts,  feafon  them  with 
mace  and  fait,  lay  them  in  a  pot  with  butter 
over  them,  tie  them  down  with  paper,  and 
bake  them  half  an  hour,  take  them  out,  and 
when  they  are  a  little  cool,  lay  them  feparately 
on  a  board  to  drain,  when  they  are  quite  cold, 
lay  them  on  a  deep  plate  in  what  form  you  pleafe, 
pour  cold  jelly  over  them, .and  they  will  look  like 
Jive  fifli. — Make  your  jelly  as  before, 

Craw  Fish  in  Savory  Jelly. 

BOIL  your  craw-fifh,  then  put  a  little  jelly 
in  a  bowl,  made  as  for  the  chickens,  when  it  is 
fet,  put  in  a  few  craw-fifh,  then  cover  them  with 
jelly,  when  it  is  cold,  put  in  more  lays  till  your 
howl  is  full,  let  it  ftand  all  night,  and  turn  them, 
put  the  fame  as  the  chickens, 

Craw-Fish  in  Jelly. 

BOIL  half  a  dozen  large  craw-fifh,  and  let 
them  cool,  wipe  them  clean,  lay  them  in  a 
punch-howl  with  their  backs  downwards,  pour 
on  them  fome  nice  calf  Vfoot  jelly,  when  it  is 

cold 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  285 
cold  turn  it  out  upon  a  glafs  difh ;  it  makes 
a  very  pretty  fide  dim  for  either  dinner  or  fupper. 

To  drefs  Maccar  oni  with  Par  me  san  Cheese, 

BOIL  four  ounces  of  maccaroni  till  it  be  quite 
tender,  and  lay  it  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  then  put 
it  in  a  toffing  pan,  with  about  a  gill  of  good 
cream,  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  boil  it 
five  minutes,  pour  it  on  a  plate,  lay  all  over  it 
Parmefan  cheefe  toafted ;  fend  it  to  table  on  a 
water  plate  for  it  foon  goes  cold. 

To  flew  Cheese  with  Light  Wigs. 

CUT  a  plateful  of  cheefe,  pour  on  it  a  glafs 
of  red  wine,  ftew  it  before  the  fire,  toaft  a  light 
wig,  pour  over  it  two  or  three  fpoonfuls  of  hot 
red  wine,  put  it  in  the  middle  of  your  difh,  lay 
the  cheefe  over  it,  and  ferve  it  up. 

Tojiew  Cheese. 

CUT  your  cheefe  very  thin,  lay  it  in  a  toafter, 
fet  it  before  the  fire,  pour  a  glafs  of  ale  over  it, 
let  it  (land  till  it  is  all  like  a  light  cuftard,  then 
pour  it  on  toafts  or  wigs,  and  fend  it  in  hot. 

To  Jlew  Chardoons. 
TAKE  the  infide  of  your  chardoons,  warn, 
them  well,  boil  them  in  fait  and  water,  put 
them  into  a  toffing  pan  with  a  little  veal  gravy, 
a  tea-fpoonful  of  lemon  pickle,  a  large  one  of 
mufhroom  catchup,  pepper   and  fait    to   your 

tafte, 


g86  THE  EXPERIENCED 

tafte,  thicken  it  with  #our  and  butter,  boil  it  A 

little,  and  ferve  it  up  in  a  fcup  plate. 

Ho  fry  ChardoonS. 

BOIL  your  chardoons  as  you  did  for  ftewing, 
then  dip  them  in  batter  made  of  a  fpocnful  of 
flour  and  ale,  fry  them  in  a  pan  of  boiling  lard, 
pour  melted  butter  over  them,  and  ferve  them 
up. 

To  ?~agoo  Celery. 

TAKE  off  all  the  outfides  of  your  heads  of 
celery,  cut  them  in  pieces,  put  them  in  a  t of- 
fing pan,  with  a  little  veal  gravy  or  water,  boil 
them  till  they  are  tender,  put  to  it  a  tea-fpoonful 
of  lemon  pickle,  a  meat  fpoonful  of  white  wine* 
and  a  little  fait ;  thicken  it  with  flour  and  but- 
ter, and  ferve  them  up  with  tippets. 

To  fry  Celery. 

BOIL  your  celery  as  for  a  ragoo,  then  cut  it 
and  dip  it  in  batter,  fry  it  a  light  brown  in  hog's-* 
lard  ;  put  it  on  a  plate,  and  pour  melted  butter 
upon  it. 


Toftew  Celery, 

TAKE  off  the  outfide  and  the  green  ends  of 
your  heads  of  celery,  boil  them  in  water  till 
they  are  very  tender,  put  in  a  (lice  of  lemon,  a 
little  beaten  mace,  thicken  it  writh  a  good  lump 
of  butter  and  flour,  boil  it  a  little,  beat  the  yolks 

of 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       287 

of  two  eggs,  grate  in  half  a  nutmeg,  mix  them 
v/ith  a  tea-cupful  of  good  cream,  put  it  to  your 
gravy,  (hake  it  over  the  fire  till  it  be  of  a  fine 
thicknefs,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  ferve  it  up  hot. 

To fcollop  Potatoes. 

&OIL  your  potatoes,  then  beat  them  fine  in 
a  bowl  with  good  cream,  a  lump  of  butter  and 
fait,  put  them  into  fcollop  fhells,  make  them 
fmooth  on  the  top,  fcore  them  with  a  knife,  lay 
thin  dices  of  butter  on  the  top  of  them,  put 
them  in  a  Dutch  oven  to  brown  before  the  fire. 
Three  fhells  is  enough  for  a  dim. 

To  Jiew  Mushrooms. 

TAKE  large  buttons,  wipe  them  with  a  wet 
flannel,  put  them  in  a  ftew-pan  with  a  little 
water,  let  them  (lew  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then 
put  in  a  little  fait,  work  a  little  flour  and  butter 
to  make  it  as  thick  as  cream,  let  it  boil  five 
minutes,  when  you  dim  it  up  put  two  large 
fpoonfuls  of  cream  mixed  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  make  it  over  the  fire  about  a  minute  or 
two,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  for  fear  of  curdling; 
put  fippets  round  the  infide  of  the  rim  of  the 
dim,  but  not  toafted,  and  ferve  it  up. — It  is 
proper  for  a  fide-dim  for  fupper,  or  a  corner  for 
dinner. 

Another  Way  tojiew  Mushrooms. 

PUT  your  mufhrooms  in  fait  and  water,  wipe 
them  with  a  flannel,  and  put  them  again  in  fait  and 

water, 


288  THE    EXPERIENCED 

water,  then  throw  them  into  a  faucepan  by  thern** 
felves,  and  let  them, boil  up  as  quick  as  poffible* 
then  put  in  a  little  Chyan  pepper,  a  little  mace 
if  you  like  the  flavour,  let  them  flew  in  this 
a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  add  a  tea-cupful  of 
cream  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  the  fize  of 
a  walnut ;  let  them  be  ferved  up  as  foon  as  done. 

To  make  Mushroom  Loaves. 

TAKE  fmall  buttons,  warn  them  as  for  pick- 
ling, put  them  in  a  tofling  pan,  with  a  little 
white  bread  crumbs  that  have  been  boiled  half 
an  hour  in  water,  then  boil  your  mufhrooms  in 
the  bread  and  water  five  minutes,  jthicken  it  with 
flour  and  butter,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of  cream, 
but  no  yolks  of  eggs,  put  in  a  little  fait,  then 
take  five  fmall  French  rolls,  make  holes  in  the 
tops  of  them  about  the  iize  of  a  milling,  and 
fcrape  out  all  the  crumb,  and  put  in  your  mum- 
rooms  ;  flick  a  bay  leaf  on  the  top  of  every  roll. 
Five  is  a  handfome  dim  for  dinner,  and  three  for 
iupper. 

To  ragoo  Mushrooms. 

TAKE  large  mu (brooms,  peel,  and  take  out 
the  infide,  broil  them  on  a  gridiron,  when  the 
outfide  is  brown  put  them  into  a  toffing  pan, 
with  as  much  water  as  will  cover  them,  let  them 
Hand  ten  minutes,  then  put  to  them  a  fpoonful 
of  white  wine,  the  fame  of  browning,  a  very 
little  allegar,  thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter, 
boil  it  a  little,  lay  .fippets  round  your  difh,  and 
ferve  it  up. 

To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      289 

To  Jiew  Peas  with  Lettuces. 

SHELL  your  peas,  boil  them  in  hard  water 
with  fait  in  it,  drain  them  in  a  fieve,  then  cut 
your  lettuces  in  flices,  and  fry  them  in  frefh  but- 
ter, put  your  peas  and  Isttuces  into  a  toffing 
pan,  with  a  little  good  gravy,  pepper,  and  fait, 
thicken  it  with  flour  and  butter,  put  in  a  little 
fhred  mint,  and  ferve  it  up  in  a  foup  di(h. 

,70 poach  Eggs  with  Toasts. 

PUT  your  water  on  in  a  flat  bottom  pan, 
with  a  little  fait,  when  it  boils  break  your  eggs 
carefully  in,  and  let  .them  boil  two  minutes, 
then  take  them  up  with  an  egg  fpoon,  and  lay 
them  on  buttered  toafts. 

To  drefs  Eggs  and  Spinage. 

PICK  and  warn  your  fpinage  in  feveral  waters, 
fet  a  pan  over  the  fire  with  a  large  quantity  of 
water,  throw  a  handful  of  fait  in,  when  it  boils 
put  your  fpinage  in,  and  let  it  boil  two  minutes, 
take  it  up  with  a  fifh  flice,  and  lay  it  on  the 
back  of  a  hair  fieve,  fqueeze  -the  water  out,  and 
put  it  in  a  toffing  pan,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter,  keep  turning  and  chopping  it  with 
a  knife,  till  it  is  quite  dry,  then  prefs  it  a  little 
betwixt  two  pewter  plates,  cut  it  in  the  fhape 
of  fippets,  and  fome  in  diamonds,  poach  your 
eggs  as  before,  and  lay  them  on  your  fpinage, 
and  ferve  them  up  hot. — N.  B.  You  may  boil 
brocoli  inftead  of  fpinage,  and  lay  it  in  bunches 
betwixt  every  egg, 

U  Td 


29o  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  drefs  Eggs  -with  Artichoke  Bottoms* 

BOIL  your  artichoke  bottoms  in  hard  water, 
if  dry  ones  in  foft  water,  put  in  a  good  lump  of 
butter  in  the  water,  it  will  make  them  boil  in 
half  the  time,  and  they  will  be  white  and  plump  $ 
when  you  put  them  up  put  the  yolk  of  an  hard 
egg  in  the  middle  of  every  bottom,  and  pour 
good  melted  butter  upon  them,  and  ferve  them 
up ;  you  may  lay  afparagus,  or  brocoli,  betwixt 
every  bottom. 

To  make  a  fricajfee  of  Eggs. 

BOIL  your  eggs  pretty  hard,  cut  them  in 
round  flices,  make  a  white  fauce  the  fame  way 
as  for  boiled  chickens,  pour  it  over  your  eggs, 
lay  lippets  round  them,  and  put  a  whole  yolk  in 
the  middle  of  your  plate.— It  is  proper  for  a 
corner  difh  at  fupper. 

To  fry  Sausages, 

CUT  them  in  fingle  links,  and  fry  them  in 
frefh  butter,  then  take  a  ilice  of  bread  and  fry 
it  a  good  brown  in  the  butter  you  fried  the  fau- 
fages  in,  and  lay  it  in  the  bottom  of  your  difh, 
put  the  faufages  on  the  toaft,  in  four  parts,  and 
lay  poached  eggs  betwixt  them;  pour  a  little 
good  melted  butter  round  them,  and  ferve  them 
up. 


To 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER,      291 

To  Jiew  Cucumbers. 

PEEL  off  the  out-rind,  flice  the  cucumbers 
pretty  thick,  fry  them  in  frefh  butter,  and  lay 
them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  put  them  into  a  tof- 
fmg  pan  with  a  large  glafs  of  red  wine,  the  fame 
of  ftrong  gravy>  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  make 
it  pretty  thick  with  flour  and  butter,  and  when 
it  boils  up  put  in  your  cucumbers,  keep  making 
them,  and  let  them  boil  five  minutes,  be  care- 
ful you  do  not  break  them  5  pour  them  into  a 
difh>  and  ferve  them  up. 

To  make  an  Amulet; 
PUT  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  into  a 
frying  pan,  break  fix  eggs  and  beat  them  a  little, 
ftrain  them  through  a  hair  fieve,  put  them  in 
when  your  butter  is  hot,  and  ftrew  in  a  little 
mred  parfley  and  boiled  ham  fcraped  fine,  with 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  fry  it  brown  on  the 
under-fide,  lay  it  on  your  dim,  but  do  not  turn  it, 
hold  a  hot  falamander  half  a  minute  over  it  to 
take  off  the  raw  look  of  the  eggs ;  ftick  curled 
parfley  in  it,  and  ferve  it  up. — N*  B.  You  may 
put  in  clary  and  chives,  or  onions  if  you  like  it, 

To  make  an  Amulet  of  Asparagus. 
TAKE  fix  eggs,  beat  them  up  with  cream, 
boil  fomeof  the  larger!  and  fineftafparagus,  when 
boiled  cut  off  all  trie  green  in  fmall  pieces,  and 
mix  them  with  the  eggs,  and  fome  pepper  and 
fait  3  make  your  pan  hot,  and  put  in  a  flice  of 
butter,  then  put  them  in,  and  fend  them  up 
hot.- — You  may  ferve  them  up  hot  on  buttered 
toafts.  « 

U  2  To 


:92         THE    EXPERIENCED,  6cc. 

75?  make  Panada. 

GRATE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  and 
boil  it  in  a  pint  of  water,  with  one  onion  and  a 
few  pepper  corns,  till  quite  thick  and  foft,  then 
put  in  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  fait,  and 
half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  keep  ftirring  it  till 
it  is  like  a  fine  cuftard,  pour  it  into  a  ioup 
plate,  and  ferve  it  up. — N.  J5.  You  may  ufe  fu- 
gar  and  currants,  iniiead  of  onions  and  pepper- 
corns if  you  pleafe. 

To  make  a  Ramequin  of  Cheese. 

TAKE  fome  old  Chefnire  cheefe,  a  lump 
of  butter,  and  the  yolk  of  a  hard  boiled  egg, 
and  beat  it  very  well  together  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, fpread  it  on  fome  flices  of  bread  toailed  and 
buttered;  hold  a  felamander  over  them,  and 
fend  them  up. 


PART 


P     A     P.     T        III. 

CHAP.      III. 

Obfervaiions  on  Potting  a:id Collaring. 

C'OVER  your  meat  well  with  butter,  and 
i  tie  over  it  ftrong  paper,  and  bake  it  well ; 
when  it  comes  cut  of  the  even  pick  out  all  the 
(kins  quite  clean,  and  drain  the  meat  from  the 
gravv,  or  the  ikins  will  hinder  it  from  looking 
well,  and  the  gravy  will  icon  turn  it  lour,  beat 
your  feafoning  well  before  you  put  in  your 
meat,  and  put  it  in  by  degrees  as  you  are  beat- 
ing j  when  you  put  it  into  your  pots,  prefs  it 
well,  and  let  it  be  quite  cola  before  you  pour 
the  clarified  butter  over  it. — In  collaring,  be 
careful  you  roll  it  up,  and  bind  it  clofe,  boil  it 
till  it  is  thoroughly  enough,  when  quite  ccld 
put  it  into  pickle  with  the  binding  on,  next  day 
;e  off  tfae  binding,  when  it  will  ie^ve  the 
{kin  cl  axj  make  :  eih  pickle  often  and  your 
meaj  will  keep  good  a  long  time. 

To  pot  Beef. 

PvUB   twelve  pounds    of  beef   with    hajf  a 

pound  of  brown  fugar,  and  one  ounce  of  fait- 
petre,  let  it  lie  twenty-four  hours,  then  wain  it 
clean  and  dry  it  well  with  2  cloth,  leafon  it  with 
a  little  beaten  mace,  pepper  and  ialt,  to   T 

U  3  tafte, 


294  THE   EXPERIENCED 

tafte,  cut  it  in  five  or  fix  pieces,  and  put  it  in; 
an  earthen  pot,  with  a  pound  of  butter  in  lumps 
upon  it,  fet  it  in  an  hot  oven,  and  let  it  Hand 
three  hours,  then  take  it  out,  cut  off  the  hard 
out  fides,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar;  add  to  it  a  lit- 
tle more  mace,  pepper  and  fait:  oil  a  pound  of 
butter  in  the  gravy  and  fat  that  came  from  your 
beef,  and  put  it  in  as  you  fee  it  requires  it,  and 
beat  it  exceeding  fine,  then  put  it  into  your  pots, 
and  prefs  it  clofe  down;  pour  clarified  butter 
over  it?  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

¥0  pot  Beef  to  eat  like  Venison. 

PUT  ten  pounds  of  beef  into  a  deep  dim, 
pour  over  it  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  let  it  lie  iri 
it  for  two  days,  then  feafon  it  with  mace,  pep- 
per, and  fait,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  with  the  wine 
it  was  fteeped  in,  add  to  it  a  large  glafs  more  of 
wine,  tie  it  down  with  paper,  and  bake  it  three 
hours  in  a  quick  oven;  when  you  take  it  out 
beat  it  in  a  mortar  or  wooden  bowl,  clarify  a 
pound  of  butter,  and  put  it  in  as  you  fee  it  re- 
quires it,  keep  beating  it  till  it  is  a  fine  parte, 
then  put  it  into  your  pots,  lay  a  paper  over  it, 
and  fct  on  a  weight  to  prefs  it  down;  the  next 
day  poiir  clarified  butter  over  it,  and  keep  it  in 
a  ary  place  for  ufe. 

To  pot  Ox  Cheek. 

WHEN  you  ftew  an  ox  cheek,  take  fomeof 
the  fiemy  part  and  feafon  it  well  with  fait  and 
pepper,  and  beat  it  very  fine  in  a  mortar  with  a 
little  clear  fat  fkimmed.  off  the  gravy,  then  put 

5  it 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      295 

it  clofe  into  your  potting  pots,  and  pour  over  it 
clarified  butter,  and  keep  it  for  ufe. 

To  pot  Venison. 

IF  your  venifon  be  ftale  rub  it  with  vinegar, 
and  let  it  lie  one  hour,  then  dry  it  clean  with  a 
cloth  and  rub  it  all  over  with  red  wine,  feafon 
it  with  beaten  mace,  pepper,  and  fait,  put  it  on 
an  earthen  difh,  and  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of 
red  wine,  and  a  pound  of  butter,  and  fet  it  in 
the  oven ;  if  it  be  afhoulder  put  a  coarfe  pafte, 
over  it,  and  bake  it  all  night  in  a  brown  bread 
oven;  when  it  comes  out,  pick  it  clean  from  the 
bones,  and  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  the 
fat  from  your  gravy ;  if  you  find  it  not  feafoned 
enough,  add  more  feafoning  and  clarified  butter, 
and  keep  beating  it  till  it  is  a  fine  pafte,  then 
prefs  it  hard  down  into  your  pots,  and  pour  clari- 
fied butter  over  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

To  pot  Veal. 

CUT  a  fillet  of  veal  in  three  or  four  pieces, 
feafon  it  with  pepper,  fait,  and  a  little  maCe,  put 
it  into  pots  with  half  a  pound  of  butter,  tie  a 
paper  over  it,  and  fet  it  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake 
it  three  hours,  when  you  take  it  out  cut  off  all 
the  out-fides,  then  put  the  veal  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, and  beat  it  with  the  fat  from  your  grayy, 
then  oil  a  pound  of  frefh  butter,  and  put  it  in, 
a  little  at  a  time,  and  keep  beating  it  till  you 
fee  it  is  like  a  fine  pafte,  then  put  it  clofe  down 
into  your  potting  pots,  put  a  paper  upon  it,  and 
fet  on  a  weight  to  prefs  it  hard  5  when  your  veal 

U  4  is 


296  THE   EXPERIENCED 

is  cold  and  ftifF,  pour  over  it  clarified  butter,  the 
thicknefs  of  a  crown  piece,  and  tie  it  down, 

To  pot  Marble  Veal,. 

BOIL  a  dried  tongue,  ikin  it,  and  cut  it  as 
thin  as  pofiible,  and  beat  it  exceeding  well  with 
near  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  little  beaten  mace, 
till  it  is  like  a  pafle,  have  ready  veal  ftewed  and 
beat  the  fame  way  as  before,  then  put  fome  veal 
into  your  potting  pots,  then  fome  tongue  in 
lumps  over  the  veal:  fill  your  pot  clofe  up  with 
veal,  and  prefs  it  very  hard  down,  and  pour  cla- 
rified butter  over  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place. 

N  B.  Do  not  lay  on  your  tcngue  in  dny  form, 
but  in  lumps,  and  it  will  cut  like  marble;  when 
you  lend  it  to  the  table  cut  it  out  in  flices,  *;nd 
gamifli  it  with  curled  parfley. 

*fo  pot  Tongues. 

TAKE  a  neat's  tongue,  and  rub  it  with  an 
ounce  of  falt-petre,  and  four  ounces  of  brown 
fugar,  and  let  it  lie  two  days,  then  boil  it  till  it 
is  quite  tender,  and  tike  off  the  fkin  and  fide- 
bits,  then  cut  the  tongue  in  very  thin  dices, 
and  beat  it  in  a  marble  mortar,  with  one  pound 
of  clarified  butter,  mace,  pepper,  and  fait  to 
your  tafte,  beat  it  exceeding  fine,  then  put  it 
clofe  down  into  fmall  patting  pots,  and  pour 
clarified  butter  over  them. 


ENGLISH   HOUSE- KEEPER.      297 

To  pot  a  Hare. 

HANG  up  your  hare  four  or  five  days  with 
the  fkin  on,  then  cafe  it,  and  cut  it  up  as  for  eat- 
ing, put  it  in  a  pot,  and  feafon  it  with  mace, 
pepper,  and  fait,  put  a  pound  of  butter  upon  it, 
tie  it  down,  and  bake  it  in  a  bread  oven,  when 
it  comes  out,  pick  it  clean  from  the  bones,  and 
poured  it  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  with  the  fat  from 
your  gravy,  then  put  it  clofe  down  into  your 
pots,  and  pour  clarified  butter  over  it,  and  keep 
it  in  a  dry  place, 

To  pot  Ham  with  Chickens. 

TAKE  as  much  lean  of  a  boiled  ham  as  yoa 
pleafe,  and  half  the  quantity  of  fat,  cut  it  as  thin 
as  poilible,  beat  it  very  fine  in  a  mortar,  with  a 
little  oiled  butter,  beaten  mace,  pepper,  and  fait, 
put  part  of  it  into  a  china  pot,  then  beat  the 
white  part  of  a  fowl  with  a  very  little  feafoning; 
it  is  to  qualify  the  ham;  put  a  lay  of  chicken, 
then  one  of  ham,  then  chicken  at  the  top,  prefs 
it  hard  down,  and  when  it  is  cold,  pour  clarified 
butter  over  it ;  when  you  fend  it  to  the  table  cut 
out  a  thin  flice  in  the  form  of  half  a  diamond, 
and  lay  it  round  the  edge  of  your  pot* 

To  pot  Woodcocks. 

PLUCK  fix  woodcocks,  draw  out  the  train, 
fkewer  their  bills  through  their  thighs,  and  put 
the  legs  through  each  other,  and  their  feet  upon, 
their  breafts,  feafoa   them  with  three  or  four 

blades 


293  THE    EXPERIENCED 

blades  of  mace,  and  a  little  pepper  and  fait,  the® 
put  them  into  a  deep  pot,  with  a  pound  of  butr 
ter  over  them,  tie  a  ftrong  paper  over  them,  and 
bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven  ;  when  they  are 
enough,  lay  them  on  a  difh  to  drain  the  gravy 
from  them,  then  put  them  into  potting  pots,  and 
take  all  the  clear  butter  from  your  gravy,  and  put 
it  upon  them,  and  fill  up  your  pots  with  clari- 
fied butter^  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  pot  Moor  Game. 

PICK  and  draw  your  moor  game,  wipe  them 
/clean  with  a  cloth,  and  feafon  them  pretty  well 
with  mace,  pepper,  and  fait,  put  one  leg  through 
the  other,  roait  them  till  they  are  quite  enough, 
and  a  good  brown;  when  they  are  cold  put  them 
into  potting  pots,  and  pour  over  them  clarified 
butter,  and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place. — N.  B.  Ob- 
serve to  leave  their  heads  uncovered  with  butter, 

To  pot  Pigeons. 

PICK  your  pigeons,  cut  off  the  pinions,  wafh 
them  clean,  and  put  them  into  a  fieve  to  drain, 
then  dry  them  with  a  cloth,  and  feafon  them  with 
pepper  and  fait,  roll  a  lump  of  butter  in  chop- 
ped parfley,  and  put  it  into  the  pigeons,  few  up 
the  vent,  then  put  them  into  a  pot  with  butter 
over  them,  tie  them  down,  and  fet  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  •>  when  they  come  out,  put  them 
into  potting  pots,  and  coyer  them  well  with 
clarified  buttter. 


n 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      299 

To  pot  all  Kinds  offmall  Birds. 

PICK  and  gut  your  birds,  dry  them  well  with 
a  cloth,  feafon  them  with  mace,  pepper,  and 
fait,  then  put  them  into  a  pot  with  butter,  tie 
your  pot  down  with  paper,  and  bake  them  in 
a  moderate  oven ;  when  they  come  out,  drain 
the  gravy  from  them,  and  put  them  into  potting 
pots,  and  cover  them  with  carified  butter. 

To  make  a  cold  Porcupine  of  Beef. 

SALT  a  flank  of  beef  the  fame  way  as  you 
did  the  round  of  beef,  and  turn  it  every  day  for 
a  fortnight  at  leaft,  then  lay  it  flat  upon  a  table, 
beat  it  an  hour,  or  till  it  is  foft  all  over,  then 
rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  ftrew 
over  it  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  beaten  mace, 
the  fame  of  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait  to  your 
tafte,  the  crumb  of  two  penny  loaves,  and  two 
large  handfuls  of  parfley  flhred  fmall,  then  cover 
it  with  thin  dices  of  fat  bacon,  and  rull  your  beef 
up  very  tight,  and  bind  it  well  with  pack-thread, 
boil  it  four  hours,  when  it  is  cold,  lard  it  all 
over,  one  row  with  the  lean  of  ham,  a  fecond 
with  cucumbers,- a  third  with  fat  bacon,  cut 
them  in  pieces  about  the  thicknefs  of  a  pipe, 
ihank  and  lard  it  fo  that  it  may  appear  red,  green, 
and  white;  fend  it  to  the  table  with  pickles  and 
fcraped  horfe-radiih  round  it,  keep  it  in  fait  and 
water,  and  a -little  vinegar. — You  may  keep  it 
four  or  five  days  without  pickle. 


To 


3°° 


THE    EXPERIENCED 


To  collar  a  Breast  of  Veal. 


BONE  your  veal,  and  beat  it  a  little,  then 
rub  it  over  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg,  ftrew 
over  it  a  little  beaten  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
fait,  a  large  handful  of  parfley  chopped  frnall, 
with  a  few  fprigs  of  fwcet  marjoram,  a  little  le- 
mon peel  cot  exceeding  fine,  one  anchovy  warn- 
ed, boned,  and  chopped  very  frnall,  and  mixed 
with  a  few  bread  crumbs,  then  roll  it  up  very 
tight,  bind  it  hard  with  a  fillet,  and  wrap  it  in 
a  clean  cloth,  then  boil  it  two  hours  and  a  half 
in  foft  water,  when  it  is  enough,  hang  it  up  by 
one  end,  and  make  a  pickle  for  it  ;  to  one  pint 
of  fait  and  water,  put  half  a  pint  of  vinegar ; 
when  you  fend  it  to  the  table,  cut  a  flice  off  one 
end  :  garnifh  with  pickles  and  parfley. 

T&  collar  a  Calf's  Head. 

TAKE  a  calf's  head  with  the  fkin  on,  and 
drefs  off  the  hair,  then  rip  it  down  the  face,  and 
take  out  all  the  bones  carefully  from  the  meat, 
and  fteep  it  in  warm  blue  milk,  till  it  is  white, 
then  lay  it  flat,  and  rub  it  with  the  white  of  an 
egg,  and  ftrew  over  it  a  tea-fpoonful  of  white 
pepper,  two  or  three  blades  of  beaten  mace,  and 
one  nutmeg,  a  fpoonful  of  fait,  two  fcore  of 
oyfters  chopped  frnall,  half  a  pound  of  beef 
marrow,  and  a  large  handful  of  parfley,  lay 
them  all  over  the  iniide  of  the  head,  cut  off  the 
cars,  and  by  them  in  a  thin  part  of  the  head, 
then  roll  it  up  tight,  bind  it  up  with  a  fillet,  and 

6  wrap 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.     301 

wrap  it  up  in  a  clean  cloth,  boil  it  two  hours, 
and  when  it  is  almoft  cold,  bind  it  up  with  a 
frefh  fillet,  and  put  it  in  a  pickle  made  as"  above, 
and  keep  it  for  ufe. 

To  collar  a  Breast  of  Mutton. 

BONE  your  mutton,  and  rub  it  over  with 
the  yolk  of  an  tgg,  then  grate  over  it  a  little 
lemon  peel,  and  a  nutmeg,  with  a  little  pepper 
and  fait,  then  chop  fmall  one  tea-cupful  of 
capers,  two  anchovies,  fhred  fine  a  handful  of 
parfley,  a  few  fweet  herbs,  mix  them  with  the 
crumb  of  a  penny  loaf,  and  ftrew  it  over  your 
mutton,  and  roll  it  up  tight,  boil  it  two  hours, 
then  take  it  up,  and  put  it  in  a  pickle  made  as 
for  the  calf  's-head. 

To  collar  a  Fig. 

KILL  your  pig,  drefs  off  the  hair,  and  draw 
out  the  entrails,  and  wafh  it  clean,  take  a  (harp 
knife,  rip  it  open,  and  take  outall  the  bones,  then 
rub  it  all  over  with  pepper  and  fait  beaten  fine, 
a  few  fage  leaves,  and  fweet  herbs  chopped  fmall, 
then  roll  up  your  pig  tight,  and  bind  it  wkh  a 
fillet,  then  fill  your  boiler  with  foft  water,  one 
pint  of  vinegar,  and  a  handful  of  fair,  eight  or 
ten  cloves,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  few  pep- 
per corns,  and  a  bunch  of  fweet  herbs  3  when 
it  boils  put  in  your  pig,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  ten- 
der, then  take  it  up,  and  when  it  is  almoft  cold, 
bind  it  over  again,  and  put  it  into  an  earthen  pot, 
and  pour  the  liquor  your  pig  was  boiled  in  upoa 
it,  keep  it  covered,  and  it  is  fit  for  ufe, 

To 


%oz  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  collar  Swine's  Face. 

CHOP  the  face  in  many  places,  and  wafh  It 
in  feveral  waters,  then  boil  it  till  the  meat  will 
leave  the  bones,  take  out  the  bones,  cut  open  the 
ears,  and  take  out  the  ear  roots,  cut  the  meat  in 
pieces,  and  feafon  it  with  pepper  and  fait  -y  while 
it  is  hot  put  it  into  an  earthen  pot,  but  put  the 
ears  round  the  outfide  of  the  meat,  put  a  board 
on  that  \yill  go  oh  the  infide  of  the  pot,  and  fet 
a  heavy  weight  upon  it,  and  let  it  fland  all  night* 
the  next  day  turn  it  out,  cut  it  round- ways,  and 
it  will  look  clofe  and  bright. 

To  make  Mock  Brawn. 

TAKE  a  piece  of  the  belly  part,  and  the  head 
of  a  young  porker,  rub  it  with  falt-petre,  and  let 
it  lie  three  days,  then  wafh  it  clean,  fplit  thehead 
and  boil  it,  then  take  out  the  bones*  and  cut  it 
in  pieces,  then  take  four  ox  feet  boiled  tender 
and  cutin  thin  pieces,  lay  them  in  your  belly  piece 
with  the  head  cut  fmall,  then  roll  it  up  tight 
with  fheet  tin,  that  a  trencher  will  go  in  at  each 
end,  boil  it  four  or  five  hours ;  when  it  comes 
out,  fet  it  upon  one  end  and  prefs  the  trencher 
down  with  a  large  lead  weight,  let  it  Hand  all 
night,  and  in  the  morning  take  it  out  of  your 
tin,  and  bind  it  with  a  white  fillet,  put  it  into 
cold  ialt  and  water,  and  it  will  be  fit  for  ufe. 

N.  B.  You  muft  make  frefh  fait  and  water 
every  four  days,  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

To 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       303 

To  collar  Flat  Ribs  of  Beef. 

BONE  your  beef,  lay  it  flat  upon  a  tablev 
and  beat  it  half  an  hour  with  a  wooden  mallet 
till  it  is  quite  foft,  then  rub  it  with  fix  ounces  of 
brown  fugar,  four  ounces  of  common  fait,  and 
one  ounce  of  falt-petre  beat  fine,  let  it  lie  then 
for  ten  days,  and  turn  it  once  every  day,  take  it 
out,  then  put  it  in  warm  water  for  eight  or  ten 
hours,  then  lay  it  flat  upon  a  table,  with  the  out- 
ward fkin  down,  and  cut  it  in  rows,  and  a-crofs, 
about  the  breadth  of  your  finger,  but  take  care 
you  do  not  cut  the  outfids  fkin  ;  then  fill  one  nick 
with  chopped  parlley,  the  fecond  with  fat  pork, 
the  third  with  crumbs  of  bread,  mace,  nutmeg, 
pepper,  and  fait,  then  parfley,  and  fo  on  till  yon 
have  filled  all  your  nicks ;  then  roll  it  up  tight, 
and  bind  it  round  with  coarfe  broad  tape,  wrap 
it  in  a  cloth  and  boil  it  four  or  five  hours ;  then 
take  it  up,  and  hang  it  up  by  one  end  of  the 
firing  to  keep  it  round,  fave  the  liquor  it  was 
boiled  in,  the  next  day  fkim  it,  and  add  to  it 
half  the  quantity  of  allegar  as  you  have  liquor, 
and  a  little  mace,  long  pepper,  and  fait,  then 
put  in  your  beef,  and  keep  it  for  ufe.  N.  B. When 
you  fend  it  to  the  table  cut  a  little  oft  both  ends, 
and  it  will  be  in  diamonds  of  different  colours, 
and  look  very  pretty,  fet  it  upon  a  difh  as  you 
do  brawn  ;  if  you  make  a  frefh  pickle  every 
week  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  collar  Beef. 

SALT  your  beef,  and  beat  it  as  before,  then 
rub  it  over  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  ftrew  over  it 

two 


304  THE   EXPERIENCED 

two  large  handfuls  of  parfley  fhred  finall,  half 
an  ounce  of  mace,  fra^k  pepper  and  fait  to  your 
tafte,  roil  it  up  tight,  ana  bind  it  about  with  a 
coarfe  broad  tape,  and  boil  it  till  it  is  tender ; 
make  a  pickle  for  it  the  fame  way  as  before. 

deforce  a  Round  of  Beef. 

TAKE  a  good  round  of  beef,  and  rub  over  it 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  with  two  ounces  of  fait- 
petre,  the  fame  of  bay  fait,  half  a  pound  of  brown 
fugar,  and  a  pound  of  common  fait,  let  it  lie  in 
it  for  ten  or  twelve  days,  turn  it  once  every  day 
in  the  brine,  then  warn  it  well,  and  make  holes 
in  it  with  a  penknife  about  an  inch  one  from 
another,  and  fill  one  hole  with  fhred  parfley,  a 
fecond  with  fat  pork  cut  in  fmall  pieces,  and  a 
third  with  bread  crumbs,  beef  marrow,  a  little 
mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and  fait,  mixed  together, 
then  parfley,  and  fo  on  till  you  have  filled  all  the 
holes,  then  wrap  your  beef  in  a  cloth,  and  bind 
it  with  a  fillet,  and  boil  it  four  hours;  when  it 
is  cold,  bind  it  over  again,  and  cut  a  thin  ilice 
off  before  you  fend  it  to  the  table  :  garniih  with 
parfley  and  red  cabbage. 

"To  foufe  a  Turkey., 

KILL  your  turkey  and  let  it  hang  four  or 
five  days  in  the  feathers,  then  pick  it  and  flit  it 
up  the  back,  and  take  out  the  entrails,  bone  it, 
and  bind  it  with  a  piece  of  matting  like  fturgeon 
©r  Newcaftle  falmon,  fet  over  the  fire  a  clean 
faucepan,  with  a  pint  of  ftrong  allegar,  a  fcore 
of  cloves,  three  or  four  blades  of  mace,  a  nut- 
meg, 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       305 

bieg  diced,  a  few  pepper  corns,  and  a  handful 
of  fait,  when  it  boils  put  in  the  turkey,  and 
boil  it  one  hour,  then  take  it  up,  and  when 
Cold,  put  it  into  an  earthen  pot,  and  pour  the 
liquor  over  it,  and  keep  it  for  ufe ;  when  you 
fend  it  to  table  lay  fprigs  of  fennel  over  it. 

ftfoufe  Pigs  Feet  and  Ears. 

CLEAN  your  pigs  feet  and  ears,  and  boil 
them  till  they  are  tender,  then  fplit  the  feet,  and 
put  them  into  fait  and  water  with  the  ears ;  when, 
you  ufe  them  dry  them  well  with  a  cloth,  and 
dip  them  in  batter  made  of  flour  and  eggs,  fry 
them  a  good  brown,  and  fend  them  up  with 
good  melted  butter. — -iV.  B.  You  may  eat  them 
cold;  make  frefti  pickle  every  two  days,  and 
they  will  keep  fome  time. 

Tofoufe  Tripe. 

WHEN  your  tripe  is  boiled,  put  it  into  fait 
and  water,  change  the  fait  and  water  every  day 
till  you  ufe  it,  dip  it  in  batter,  and  fry  it  as  the 
pigs  feet  and  ears>  or  boil  it  in  frefh  fait  and 
water,  with  an  onion  fliced,  and  a  few  fprigs  of 
parfley,  and  fend  melted  butter  for  fauce. 

ft  hang  a  Surloin  of  Beef  to  roajl*  ■ 

TAKE  the  fuet  out  of  a  furloin,  and  rub  it 
half  an  hour  with  one  ounce  of  falt-petre,  four 
ounces  of  common  fait,  and  half  a  pound  of 
brown  fugar,  hang  it  up  ten  or  twelve  days,  thea 
wafh  it,  and  roaft  it;  you  may  eat  it  either  hot 
or  cold. 

X  ft 


3o6  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  fait  Hams. 

AS  foon  as  your  hams  are  cut  out,  rub  thern 
very  well  with  one  ounce  of  falt-petre,  half  an 
ounce  of  fait  prunella  pounded,  and  one  pound 
of  common  fait  to  every  ham,  lay  them  in  lead 
or  earthen  fait  pans  for  ten  days,  turn  them  once 
in  the  time,  then  rub  them  well  with  more  com- 
mon fait,  let  them  lie  ten  days  longer,  and  turn 
them  every  day,  then  take  them  out,  and  fcrape 
them  exceeding  clean,  and  dry  them  well  with 
a  clean  cloth,  and  rub  it  flightly  over  with  a  lit- 
tle fait,  and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 

To fmoke  Hams. 

..WHEN  you  take  your  hams  out  of  the  pic- 
kle, and  have  rubbed  them  dry  with  a  coarfe 
cloth,  hang  them  in  a  chimney,  and  make  afire 
of  oak  (havings,  and  lay  over  it  horfe  litter,  and 
one  pound  of  juniper  berries,  keep  the  fire  fmo- 
thered  down  for  two  or  three  days,  and  thea 
hang  them  up  to  dry. 

To  fait  Chops. 

THROW  over  your  chops  a  handful  of  fait, 
and  lay  them  fkin-fide  down  aflant  on  a  board, 
to  let  ail  the  blood  run  from  them ;  the  next  day 
pound  to  every  pair  of  chops  one  ounce  of  bay 
fait,  the  fame  of  falt-petre,  two  ounces  of  brown 
fugar,  and  half  a  pound  of  common  fait,  mix 
them  together,  and  rub  them  exceeding  well, 
let  them  lie  ten  days  in  your  falting  ciftern,  then 

rub 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.       307 

rub  them  with  common  fait,  and  let  them  lie  a 
week  longer,  and  rub  them  clean,  and  hang 
them  to  dry  in  a  dry  place, 

To  fait  Bacon. 

WHEN  your  pig  is  cut  down,  cut  off  the 
hams  and  head,  if  it  be  a  large  one  cut  out  a 
chine,  but  leave  in  the  fpare  ribs,  it  keeps  the 
bacon  from  rufting,  and  the  gravy  in,  fait  it 
with  common  fait,  and  a  little  falt-petre,  (but 
neither  bay  fait  nor  fugar)  let  it  lie  ten  days  on 
a  table,  that  will  let  all  the  brine  run  from  it, 
then  fait  it  again  ten  or  twelve  days,  turning  it 
everyday  after  the  fecond  falting,  then  fcrapeit 
very  clean,  rub  a  little  dry  fait  on  it,  and  hang 
it  up. — N.  B.  Take  care  to  fcrape  the  white 
froth  off  very  clean  that  is  on  it,  which  is  caufed 
by  the  fait  to  work  out  of  your  pork,  and  rub 
on  a  little  dry  fait,  it  keeps  the  bacon  from  ruft- 
ing; the  dry  fait  will  candy  and  fhine  like  dia- 
monds on  your  bacon. 

To  fait  Tongues. 

SCRAPE  your  tongues,  and  dry  them  clean 
with  a  cloth,  and  fait  them  well  with  common 
fait,  and  half  an  ounce  of  falt-petre  to  every 
tongue,  lay  them  in  a  deep  pot,  and  turn  them 
every  day  for  a  week  or  ten  clays,  fait  them  again, 
and  let  them  lie  a  week  longer,  take  them  up, 
dry  them  with  a  cloth,  flour  them,  and  hang 
them  up. 


X  2  To 


3oS  THE    EXPERIENCED 

To  fait  a  Leg  of  Mutton. 

POUND  one  ounce  of  bay  fait,  and  half  a^5 
ounce,  of  falt-petre,  and  rub  it  all  over  your  leg 
of  mutton,  and  let  it  lie  all  night ;  the  next  day 
fait  it  well  with  common  fait,  and  let  it  lie  a 
week  or  ten  days,  then  hang  it  up  to  dry. 

To  pickle  Pork. 

CUT  your  pork  in  fuch  pieces  as  will  be  moft 
convenient  to  lie  in  your  powdering  tub,  rub 
every  piece  all  over  with  falt-petre,  then  take 
one  part  bay  fait,  and  two  parts  common  fait, 
and  rub  every  piece  well,  lay  the  pieces  as  clofe 
as  poffible  in  your  tub,  and  throw  a  little  fait 
over. 

To  pickle  Beef. 

TAKE  fixteen  quarts  of  cold  water  and  put 
to  it  as  much  fait  as  will  make  it  bear  an  e££» 
then  add  two  pounds  of  bay  fait,  half  a  pound 
of  falt-petre  pounded  fmall,  and  three  pounds 
of  brown  fugar ;  mix  all  together,  then  put  your 
beef  into  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  cool  place. 


CHAP.     XIV. 

Obfervations  on  Possets,  Gruels,  &c. 

IN  making  poffets,  always  mix  a  little  of  the 
hot  cream  or  milk  with  your  wine,   it  wrll 
keep  the  wine  from  curdling  the  reft,  and  take 
the  cream  off  the  fire  before  you  mix  all  toge- 
ther. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  309 
ther.  — Obferve  in  making  gruels,  that  you  boil 
them  in  well  tinned  fauc'epans,  for  nothing  will 
fetch  the  verdigreafe  out  of  copper  fooner  than 
acids  or  wine,  which  are  the  chief  ingredients 
in  gruels,  fagos,  and  wheys  j  do  not  let  your 
gruel  or  lago  fkim  over,  for  it  boils  into  them 
and  makes  them  a  muddy  colour. 

To  make  a  Sack  Posset. 

GRATE  two  Naples  bifcuits  into  a  pint  of 
thin  cream,  put  in  a  flick  of  cinnamon,  and  fet 
it  over  a  flow  fire,  boil  it  till  it  is  of  a  proper 
thicknefs  ;  then  add  half  a  pint' of  fack,  a  flice 
of  the  ead  of  a  lemon,  with  fugar  to  your  tafte  ; 
ftir  it  gently  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil 
left  it  curdle,  fervei:  up  with  dry  toaft. 

To  make  a  Brandy  Posse  t. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  cream  over  a  flow  fire,  with 
a  flick  of  cinnamon  in  it,  take  it  off  to  cool,  beat 
the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  very  well,  and  mix  them 
with  the  cream,  add  nutmeg  and  fugar  to  your 
tafte,  let  it  over  a  flow  fire,  and  ftir  it  one  way ; 
when  it  is  like  a  fine  thin  cuftard,  take  it  off, 
and  pour  it  into  your  turene  or  bowl,  with  a  glafs 
of  brandy,  ftir  it  gently  together,  and  ferve  it 
up  with  tea  wafers  round  it. 

To  wake  a  Lemon  Posset, 

GRATE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  very  fine, 
and  put  it  into  rather  more  than  a  pint  of 
water,  with  half  a  lemon  peel  grated,  or  fugar 
rubbed  upon  it  to  tike  out  the  eilence,  boil  them 

X  3  together 


3io  THE  EXPERIENCED 
together  till  it  looks  thick  and  clear,  then  beat  It 
very  well  -, — to  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  put  in 
a  pint  of  mountain  wine,  three  ounces  of  Jordan 
almonds,  and  one  ounce  of  bitter,  beat  fine  with 
a  little  orange  flower,  or  French  brandy,  and 
fugar  to  your  tafte,  mix  it  well  and  put  it  in 
your  poffer,  ferve  it  up  in  a  turene  or  bowl. — 
2V".  jB.  An  orange  poffet  is  made  the  fame  way. 

To  make  an  Almond  Posset. 

GRATE  the  crumb  of  a  penny  loaf  very 
fine,  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  upon  it,  let 
it  fland  two  or  three  hours,  then  beat  it  ex- 
ceeding well,  add  to  it  a  quart  of  good  cream, 
four  ounces  of  almonds  blanched  and  beat  as 
fine  as  poffible,  with  rofe  water,  mix  them  all 
well  together,  and  fet  them  over  a  very  flow  fire, 
and  boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  fet  it 
to  cool,  and  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  and 
mix  them  with  your  cream  ;  when  it  is  cold, 
fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  3  then  ftir  it  over  a  flow 
fire,  till  it  grows  pretty  thick,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil,  it  will  curdle  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  china 
bowl ;  when  you  fend  it  to  table,  put  in  three 
macaroons  to  fwim  on  the  top. — It  is  proper  for 
top  at  fupper. 

To  make  a  Wine  Posset. 

TAKE  a  quart  of  new  milk,  and  the  crumb 
penny  loaf,  and  boil  them  till  they  are  foft, 
n  you  take  it  off  the  fire,  grate  in  half  a  nut- 
meg, and  fugar  to  your  tsafte,  then  put  it  into  a 
china  bowl,  and  put  it  in  a  pint  of  Lifbon  wine 

carefully, 


of  a 

whe 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      311 

carefully,  a  little  at  a  time,  or  it  will  make  the 
curd  hard  and  tough  -,  ferve  it  up  with  toaft  and 
butter  upon  a  plate. 

To  make  an  Ale  Posset. 

PUT  a  little  white  bread  in  a  pint  of  good 
milk,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  than  warm  a  little 
more  than  a  pint  of  good  ftrong  ale,  with  nut- 
meg and  fugar  to  your  tafte,  then  put  it  in  a  bowl, 
when  your  milk  boils  pour  it  upon  your  ale,  let 
it  ftand  a  few  minutes  to  clear,  and  the  curd  will 
rife  to  the  top. 

To  mull  Wine. 

GRATE  half  a  nutmeg  into  a  pint  of  wine, 

and  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  with  loaf  fngar,  fei 

it  over  the  fire,   and  when  it  boils  take  it  off  to 

1,  beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  exceeding  well, 

to  them  a  little  cold  wine,   then  mix  them 

fully  with  your  hot  wine,  a  little  at  a  time, 

oour  it  backwards  and  forwards  feveral 

les  till  it  looks  fine  and  bright,  then  fet  it  on 

the  fire,  and  heat  it  a  little  at  a  time  for  feveral 

times  till  it  is  quite  hot  and  pretty  thick,  and 

pour   it  backwards  and  forwards  feveral  times  ; 

then  fend   it  in  chocolate  cups,  and  ferve  it  up 

with  dry  toaft  cut  in  long  narrow  pieces. 

To  mull  Ale. 

TAKE  a  pint  of  good  ftrong  ale,  put  it  into 
a  faucepan,  with  three  or  four  cloves,  nutmeg 
and  fugar  to  your  tafte,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  when 

X  4  it 


312  THE    EXPERIENCED 

it  boils  take  it  off  to  cool,  beat  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs  very  well,  and  mix  them  with  a  little  cold 
ale,  then  put  it  to  your  warm  ale,  and  pour  it  in 
and  out  of  your  pan  for  feveral  times,  then  fet 
it  over  a  flow  fire  and  heat  it  a  little,  then  take 
it  off  again  and  heat  it  two  or  three  times  till  it 
is  quite  hot,  then  ferve  it  up  with  dry  toaft* 

To  make  mulled \Wine. 

BOIL  a  quart  of  new  milk  five  minutes  with 
a  flick  of  cinnarnon3  nutmeg,  and  fugar  to  your 
tafte,  then  take  it  off  the  fire  and  let  it  ftand  to 
cool,  beat  the  yolks  of  fix  eggs  very  well,  and 
mix  them  with  a  little  cold  cream,  then  mix 
them  with  your  milk,  and  pour  it  backwards 
and  forwards  the  fame  as  you  dp  mulled  ale,  and 
fend  it  to  the  table  with  a.  plate  of  bifcuits* 

Tox  make  Beef  Tea. 

TAKE  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  it  in  very 
thinflices,  put  it  into  a  jar*  and  pour  a  quart  of 
boiling  water  upon  it,  cover  it  very  clofe  to  keep 
in  the  fleam,  let  it  ftand  by  the  fire,  it  is  very 
good  for  a  weak  conftitution,  it  muft  be  drank 
when  it  is  new  milk  warm. 

To  make  Chicken  Broth. 

SKIN  a  fmall  chicken,  and  fplitit  in  two,  and 
boil  one  half  in  three  half  pints  "of  water,  with 
a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  fmall  cruft  of  white 
breads  boil  it  over  a  flow  fire  till  it  is  reduced  to 

half 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  gij 
half  the  quantity,  pour  it  into  a  bafon,  ^nd  take 
off  the  fat,  and  fend  it  up  with  a  dry  toafh 

To  make  Chicken  Water. 

SKIN  half  a  fowl,  break  the  bones,  and  cut 
the  flefh  as  thin  as  poffible,  then  put  it  into  a 
jar,  and  pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  upon  it, 
cover  it  clofe  up,  and  fet  it  by  the  fire  for  three 
|iours,  and  it  will  be  ready  to  drink. 

To  ^Mutton  Broth, 

TAKE  the  fcrag  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton, 
chop  it  into  fmall  pieces,  put  it  into  a  faucepan, 
and  fill  it  with  water,  fet  it  over  the  fire,  and  when 
the  fcum  begins  to  rife,  take  it  clean  off,  and  put 
in  a  blade  01  two  of  mace,  a  little  French  barley, 
or  a  cruft  of  white  bread  to  thicken  it ;  when  you 
have  boiled  your  mutton  that  it  will  fhake  to 
pieces,  flrain  your  broth  through  a  hair  fieve, 
fcum  off  the  fat,  and  fend  it  up  with  dry  toaft. 

To  make  White  Wine  Whey, 

PUT  a  pint  of  fkimmed  milk,  and  half  a  pint 
of  white  wine  into  a  bafon,  let  it  ftand  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  wa- 
ter, let  it  ftand  a  little,  and  the  curd  will  gather 
in  a  lump,  and  fettle  to  the  bottom,  then  pour 
your  whey  into  a  china  bowl,  and  put  in  a  lump 
of  fugar^  a  fprig  of  balm,  or  a  flice  of  lemon, 


To 


3i4  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Scurvy  Grass  Whey. 

BOIL  a  pint  of  blue  milk,  take  it  off  to  cool, 
then  put  in  two  fpoonfuls  of  the  juice  of  fcurvy 
grafs,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of  good  old  verjuice,  fet 
it  over  the  lire,  and  it  will  turn  to  a  fine  whey ;  it 
is  very  good  to  drink  in  the  fpring  for  the  fcurvy. 

To  make  Cream  of  Tartar  Whey. 

PUT  a  pint  of  blue  milk  over  the  fire,  when 
it  begins  to  boil,  put  in  two  tea  fpoonfuls  of 
cream  of  tartar,  then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  let 
It  fland  till  the  curd  fettles  to  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  then  pour  it  into  a  bafon  to  cool,  and  drink 
it  milk  warm. 

To  make  Barley  Water. 

TAKE  two  ounces  of  barley,  boil  it  in  two 
quarts  of  water  till  it  looks  white,  and  the  barley 
grows  foft,  then  fcrain  the  water  from  the  bar- 
ley, add  to  it  a  little  currant  jelly  or  lemon. — 
JV.  jB.  You  may  put  a  pint  more  water  to  your 
barley,  and  boil  it  over  again. 

To  make  Groat  Gruel: 

BOIL  half  a  pint  of  groats  in  three  pints  of 
water  or  more,  as  you  would  have  your  gruel  for 
thicknefs,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace  in  it ; 
when  your  groats  are  foft,  put  in  it  white  wine 
and  fugar  to  your  tafle,  then  take  it  off  the  fire, 
put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  currants  wafhed 
and  picked,  put  it  in  a  China  bowl,  with  a  toaft 
of  bread  round  it,  cut  in  long  narrow  pieces. 

2  To 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     315 

Tomake  Sago  Gruel. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  fago,  give  it  a  fcald 
in  hot  water,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair  fieve, 
and  put  it  over  the  fire  with  two  quarts  of  water 
and  a  flick  of  cinnamon,  keep  fcumming  it  till 
it  grows  thick  and  clear,  when  your  fago  is 
enough,  take  out  the  cinnamon  and  put  in  a 
pint  of  red  wine,  if  you  would  have  it  very 
ftrong  put  in  more  than  a  pint,  and  fweeten  it 
to  your  tafte,  then  fet  it  over  the  fire  to  warm, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  wine  is  put  in,  it 
weakens  the  tafte,  and  makes  the  colour  not  fo 
deep  a  red,  pour  it  into  a  turene,  and  put  in  a 
llice  of  lemon,  when  you  are  fending  it  to  table. 
It  is  proper  for  a  top  difh  for  fupper. 

To  make  Sago  with  Milk. 

WASH  your  fago  in  warm  water,  and  fet  it 
over  the  fire  with  a  ftick  of  cinnamon,  and  as 
much  water  as  will  boil  it  thick  and  foft,  then 
put  in  as  much  thin  cream  or  new  milk  as  will 
make  it  a  proper  thicknefs,  grate  in  half  a  nut- 
meg, fweeten  it  to  your  tafte  and  ferve  it  up  in 
a  China  bowl  or  turene. — It  is  proper  for  a  top 
difh  for  fupper. 

To  make  Barley  Gruel. 

TAKE  four  ounces  of  pearl  barley,  boil  it  in 
two  quarts  of  water  with  a  ftick  of  cinnamon  in 
it,  till  it  is  reduced  to  one  quart,  add  to  it  a  lit- 
tle more  than  a  pint  of  red  wine,  and  fugar  to 
your  tafte,  wafh  and  pick  two  or  three  ounc«  of 
currants  very  clean. 

To 


3i6  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Water  Gruel. 

TAKE  one  fpoonful  of  oatmeal,  boil  it  ih 
three  pints  of  water  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or 
till  it  is  fine  and  fmooth,  then  take  it  off  the  fire 
and  let  it  ftand  to  fettle,  then  pour  it  in  a  china 
bowl,  and  add  white  wine,  fugar,  and  a  nutmeg  to 
your  tafte,  ferve  it  up  hot  with  a  toaft  buttered 
upon  a  plate. 

To  make  afweet  Pan  a  do. 

CUT  all  the  cruft  off  a  penny  loaf,  flice  the 
reit  very  thin  and  put  it  into  a  faucepan  with  a 
pint  of  water,  boil  it  till  it  is  very  foft  and  looks 
clear,  then  put  in  a  glafs  of  fack  or  Madeira  wine, 
grate  in  a  little  nutmeg,  and  put  in  a  lump  of 
butter  the  fize  of  a  walnut,  and  fugar  to  your 
tafte,  beat  it  exceeding  fine,  then  put  it  in  a  deep 

foup  difli  and  ferve  it  up. N.  B.    You  may 

leave  out  the  wine  and  fugar,  and  put  in  a  little 
good  cream  and  a  little  fait,  if  you  like  it  better* 

ffiq  make  Chocolate. 

SCRAPE  four  ounces  of  chocolate  and  pour 
a  quart  of  boiling  water  upon  it,  millit  well  with 
a  chocolate  mill,  and  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte, 
give  it  a  boil  and  let  it  ftand  all  night,  then  mill 
it  again  very  well,  boil  it  two  minutes,  then 
mill  it  till  it  will  leave  a  froth  upon  the  top  of 
your  cups? 


CHAP, 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      317 

CHAP.      XV. 

Obfervatlons  on   Wines,    Catchup,    and 
Vinegar. 

WINE  is  a  very  neceffary  thing  in  moil:  fa- 
milies, and  is  often  fpoiled  through  mis- 
management of  putting  together,  for  if  you  let 
it  ftand  too  long  before  you  get  it  cold,  and  do  not 
take  great  care  to  put  your  barm  upon  it  in  time, 
it  fummer-beams  and  blinks  in  the  tub,  fo  that 
it  makes  your  wine  fret  in  the  cafk,  and  will  not 
let  it  fine  -y  it  is  equally  as  great  a  fault  to  let  it 
work  too  long  in  the  tub,  for  that  takes  off  all 
the  fweetnefs  and  flavour  of  the  fruit  or  flowers 
your  wine  is  made  from,  £o  the  only  caution  I 
can  give,  is  to  be  careful  in  following  the  re- 
ceipts, and  to  have  your  veflels  dry,  rinfe  them 
with  brandy,  and  clofe  them  up  as  foon  as  your 
wine  has  done  fermenting. 

To  make  Lemon  Wine  to  drink  like  Citron 
Water. 

PARE  five  dozen  of  lemons  very  thin,  put 
the  peels  into  five  quarts  of  French  brandy,  and 
let  them  fiand  fourteen  days,  then  make  the  juice 
into  a  fyrup  with  three  pounds  of  fingle  refined 
iugar ;  when  the  peels  are  ready,  boil  fifteen 
gallons  of  water  with  forty  pounds  of  fingle  re- 
jined  fagar  for  half  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  a 
tub,  when  cool  add  to  it  one  fpoonful  of  barm, 
let  it  w7ork  two  days,  then  tun  it,  and  put  in  the 
brandy,  peels,  and  fyrup,  ftir  them  all  together, 

and 


3i8  THE   EXPERIENCED 

and  clofe  up  your  caik,  let  it  fcand  three  months^ 
then  bottle  it,  and  it  will  be  pale  and  as  fine  as 
any  citron  water;  it  is  more  like  a  cordial  than 
wine. 

To  make  Lemon  Wine  a  Jecond  Way. 
TO  one  gallon  of  water,  put  three  pounds  of 
powder  fugar,  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour  j  fcum 
it  well,  then  pour  it  on  the  rinds  of  four  lemons 
pared  very  thin, make  the  j  uice  into  a  thick  fy  rup, 
with  half  a  pound  of  the  above  fugar,  take  a  flice 
of  bread  toaiied  and  fpread  on  it  a  fpoonful  of 
new  barm,  put  it  in  the  liquor  when  luke  warm, 
and  let  it  work  two  days, "then  turn  it  into  your 
eafk,  and  let  it  fcand  three  months,  and  then 
bottle  it. 

To  make  Orange  Wine. 
TO  ten  gallons  of  water,  add  twenty-four 
pounds  of  lump  fugar,  beat  the  whites  of  fix  eggs 
very  well,  and  mix  them  when  the  water  is  cold, 
then  boil  it  an  hour,  fcum  it  very  well,  take  four 
dozen  of  the  roughed  and  largeft  Seville  oranges 
you  can  get,  pare  them  very  thin,  put  them  into 
a  tub,  and  put  the  liquor  on  boiling  hot,  and 
when  you  think  it  is  cold  enough  add  to  it  three 
or  four  fpoonfuls  of  new  yeft,  with  the  juice  of 
the  oranges,  and  half  an  ounce  of  cochineal  beat 
fine,  and  boiled  in  a  pint  of  water,  ftir  it  all  to- 
gether, and  let  it  work  four  days,  then  put  it  in 
the  calks,  and  in  fix  weeks  time  bottle  it  for  ufe. 

To  make  Orange  Wine  a  fecond  Way. 
TO  ten  gallons  of  water,   add  twenty-feven 
pounds  of  lump  fugar,  boil  it  one  hour,  fkim 

it 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     319 

it  all  the  time,  then  take  the  peels  of  five  dozen  of 
oranges,  pared  very  thin,  put  them  into  a  tub; 
when  you  take  the  liquor  off  the  fire,  pour  it 
upon  them,  and  when  it  is  almoft  cold  add  to  it 
three  fpoonfuls  of  good  yeft  and  free  from  being 
bitter,  with  the  juice  of  all  your  oranges;  let  it 
work  two  or  three  days,  ftirit  twice  a  day,  then 
put  it  into  a  barrel  with  one  quart  of  mountain 
wine,  and  four  ounces  of  the  fyrup  of  citron ; 
ftir  it  well  in  the  liquor;  leave  the  barrel  open 
till  it  has  done  working,  then  clofe  it  well  up, 
let  it  ftand  fix  weeks,  and  then  bottle  it. 

To  make  Orange  Wine  a  third  Way. 

TAKE  fix  gallons  of  water,  and  fifteen  pounds 
©f  powder  fugar,  the  whites  of  fix  eggs  well  beat, 
boil  them  all  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  fcum 
it  well ;  when  it  is  cold  for  working,  take 
fix  fpoonfuls  of  good  yeft,  and  fix  ounces  of  the 
fyrup  of  lemons,  mix  them  well,  and  add  it  to 
the  liquor,  with  the  juice  and  peel  of  fifteen 
oranges ;  let  it  work  two  days  and  one  night, 
then  tun  it,  and  in  three  months  bottle  it. 

To  make  Smyrna  Raisin  Wine. 

TO  one  hundred  of  raifins  put  twenty  gal- 
lons of  water,  let  it  ftand  fourteen  days,  then 
put  it  into  your  cafk ;  when  it  has  been  in  fix 
months,  add  to  it  one  gallon  of  French  brandy, 
and  when  it  is  fine  then  bottle  it. 

To  make  Elder  Raisin  Wine. 

TO  every  gallon  of  water  put  fix  pounds  of 
Malaga  raifins  ihred  fmall,  put  thorn  into  a  vef- 

feh 


*2o         THE   EXPERIENCED 

•J 

fel,  pour  the  water  on  them  boiling  hot,  and  let 
it  ftand  nine  days,  ftirring  it  twice  every  day,  get 
the  elder  berries  when  full  ripe,  pick  them  off 
the  ftalks,  put  them  into  an  earthen  pot,  and 
fet  them  in  a  moderate  oven  all  night,  then  ftraiti 
them  through  a  coarfe  cloth,  and  to  every  gal- 
lon of  liquor  add  one  quart  of  this  juice,  ftir  it 
well  together,  then  toaft  a  flice  of  bread,  and 
fpread  three  fpoonfuls  of  yeft  on  both  fides,  and 
put  it  in  your  wine,  and  let  it  work  a  day  or 
two,  then  tun  it  into  your  cafk,  fill  it  up  as  it 
works  over,  when  it  has  done  working,  clofe  it 
up,  and  let  it  ftand  one  year. 

To  make  Raisin  Wine  another  Way. 

BOIL  ten  gallons  of  fpring  water  one  hour, 
when  it  is  milk  warm,  to  every  gallon  add  fix 
pounds  of  Malaga  raifins,  clean  picked  and  half 
chopped,  ftirit  up  together  twice  a  day  for  nine 
or  ten  days,  then  run  it  through  a  hair  fieve,  and 
fqueeze  the  raifins  well  with  your  hands,  and 
put  the  liquor  in  your  barrel,  bung  it  clofe  up, 
and  let  it  ftand  three  months  and  then  bottle  it* 

To  make  Ginger  Wine. 

TAKE  four  gallons  of  fpring  water,  and  feveri- 
pounds  of  Lifbon  fugar,  boil  it  a  quarter  of 
an  hour,  and  keep  fcumming  it  well ;  when  the 
liquor  is  cold  fqueeze  in  the  juice  of  two  le- 
mons, then  boil  the  peel  with  two  ounces  of 
ginger  in  three  pints  of  v/ater  one  hour  ;  when 
it  is  cold  put  it  all  together  into  a  barrel,  with 

I  tWQ 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.     3^1 

two  fpoonfuls  of  yeft,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
ifinglafs  beat  very  thin,  and  two  pounds  of  jar 
raifins,  then  clofe  it  up,  and  let  it^  ftand  fcvca 
weeks,  then  bottle  it;  the  beft  feafon  to  make 
it  is  the  fpring. 

To  make  Pearl  Gooseberry  Wine. 

TAKE  as  many  of  the  beft  pearl  goofeberries 
when  ripe  as  you  pleafe,  bruife  them  with  a 
wooden  peftle  in  a  tub,  and  let  them  ftand  all 
night,  then  prefs  and  fqueeze  them  through  a 
hair  fieve,  let  the  liquor  ftand  {qvqi\  or  eight 
hours,  then  pour  it  clear  from  the  fediments  ; 
and  to  every  three  pints  of  liquor  add  a  pound 
of  double  refined  fugar,  and  ftir  it  about  till  it 
is  melted,  then  put  to  it  five  pints  of  water,  and 
two  pounds  more  of  fugar,  then  diflblve  half 
an  ounce  of  ifinglafs  in  part  of  the  liquor  that  has 
been  boiled,  put  all  in  your  cafk,  ftop  it  well  up 
for  three  months,  then  bottle  it,  and  put  in 
every  bottle  a  lump  of  double  refined  fugar.- — 
This  is  excellent  wine. 

To  make  Gooseberry  Wine  a  fecond  Way* 

TO  a  gallon  of  water  put  three  pounds  of 
lump  fugar,  boil  it  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and 
fcum  it  very  well,  then  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  al- 
moft  cold,  and  take  four  quarts  of  goofeborries 
when  full  ripe,  bruife  them  in  a  marble  mor- 
tar, and  put  them  in  your  veflel,  then  pour  in 
the  liquor  and  let  it  ftand  two  days,  and  ftir  it 
every  four  hours,  fteep  half  an  ounce  of  ifinglafs 

Y  in 


322  THE  EXPERIENCED 

in  a  pint  of  brandy  two  days,  ftrain  the  wine 
through  a  flannel  bag  into  a  cafe,  then  beat  the 
ifinglafs  in  a  marble  mortar  with  five  whites  of 
eggs,  then  whifk  them  together  half  an  hour, 
and  put  it  in  the  wine  and  beat  them  all  together, 
clofe  up  your  cafk  and  put  clay  over  it,  let  it 
ftand  fix  months,  then  bottle  it  oft  for  ufe,  put 
in  each  bottle  a  lump  of  fugar  and  two  raifins 
of  the  fun;  this  is  a  very  rich  wine,  and  when 
it  has  been  kept  in  the  bottles  two  or  three  years, 
will  drink  like  champagne. 

Tb  make  Blackberry  Wine. 

GATHER  your  berries  when  they  are  full 
ripe,  take  twelve  quarts,  and. crufh.  them  with 
your  hand,  boil  fix  gallons  of  water  with  twelve 
pounds  of  brown  iugar  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
fcum  it  well,  then  pour  it  on  the  blackberries, 
and  let  it  ftand  all  night,  then  ftrain  it  through 
a  hair  fieve,  put  into  your  cafk  fix  pounds  of 
Malaga  raifins  a  little  cut,  then  put  the  wine  into 
the  cafk  with  one  ounce  of  ifinglafs,  which  muft 
be  diffolved  in  a  little  cyder,  ftir  it  all  up  toge- 
ther, clofe  it  up,  and  let  it  ftand  fix  months, 
and  then  bottle  it. 

¥0  make  Raspberry  Wine. 

.  GATHER  your  rafpberries  when  full  ripe 
and  quite  dry,  crufh  them  direcftly  and  mix  them 
with  fugar,  it  will  preferve  the  flavour  which 
they  would  lofe  in  two  hours;  to  every  quart  of 
rafpberries  put  a  pound  of  fine  powder  fugar, 

when 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      323 

when  you  have  got  the  quantity  you  intend  to 
make,  to  every  quart  of  rafpherries  add  two 
pounds  more  of  fugar,  and  one  gallon  of  cold 
water,  itir  it  well  together,  and  let  it  ferment 
three  days,  flirring  it  five  or  iix  times  a  day, 
then  put  it  in  your  cafk,  and  for  every  gallon 
put  in  two  whole  eggs,  take  care  they  are  not 
broke  in  putting  them  in,  clofe  it  well  up,  and 
let  it  ftand  three  months,  then  bottle  it. — 
N.  B-.  If  you  gather  the  berries  when  the  fun 
is  hot  upon  them,  and  be  quick  in  making  your 
wine,  it  will  keep  the  virtue  in  the  rafpberries, 
and  make  the  wine  more  pleafant. 

To.  make  Red  Currant  Wine. 

GATHER  the  currants  when  full  ripe,  ftrip 
them  from  the  ftcms,  and  fqueeze  out  the  juice; 
to  one  gallon  of  the  juice  put  two  gallons  of  cold 
water,  and  two  fpoonfuls  of  yeft,  and  let  it 
work  two  days,  then  ftrain  it  through  a  hair 
fieve,  at  the  lame  time  put  one  ounce  of  iiing- 
glafs  to  fteep  in  cyder,  and  to  every  gallon  of  li- 
quor add  three  pounds  of  loaf  f-Jgar,  ftir  it  well 
together,  put  it  in  a  good  caik  :  to  every  ten  gal- 
lons of  wine  put  two  quarts  of  brandy,  mix 
them  all  exceeding  well  in  your  cafk,  clofe  it 
well  up,  let  it  ftand  four  months,  then  bottle  it. 

To  make  Currant  Wine  anotke?'  ^ay. 

TAKE  an  equal  quantity  of  red  and  white 
currants,  bake  them  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven, 
then  fqueeze  them  through  a  coarfe  cloth,  what 

Y   2  water 


324  THE   EXPERIENCED 

water  you  intend  to  ufe  have  ready  boiling, 
and  to  every  gallon  of  water  put  in  one  quart  of 
juice  and  three  pounds  of  loaf  fugar,  boil  it  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  fcum  it  well,  then  put  it 
in  a  tub,  when  cool  toaft  a  (lice  of  bread  and 
fpread  on  both  fides  two  fpoonfuls  of  yeft,  and 
let  it  work  three  days,  flir  it  three  or  four  times 
a  day,  then  put  it  into  a  calk,  and  to  every  ten 
gallons  of  wine  add  a  quart  of  French  brandy,and 
the  whites  of  ten  eggs  well -beat,  make  the  cafk 
clofe  up,  and  let  it  ftand  three  months,  then 
bottle  it. — N.  B.  This  is  a  pale  wine,  but  it  is  a 
very  good  one  for  keeping,  and  drinks  pleafant. 

To  make  Sycamore  Wine. 

TAKE  two  gallons  of  the  fap  and  boil  it  half 
an  hour,  then  add  to  it  four  pounds  of  fine  pow- 
der fugar,  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a 
froth,  and  mix  them  with  the  fiquor,  but  if  it 
be  too  hot,  it  will  poach  the  eggs,  fcum  it  very 
well,  and  boil  it  half  an  hour,  then  ftrain  it 
through  a  hair  fieve,  and  let  it  ftand  till  next 
day,  then  pour  it  clean  from  the  fediments,  put 
half  a  pint  of  good  yefl  to  every  twelve  gallons, 
cover  it  clofe  up  with  blankets  till  it  is  white 
over,  then  put  it  into  the  barrel,  and  leave  the 
bung-hole  open  till  it  has  done  working,  then 
clofe  it  well  up,  let  it  Hand  three  months,  then 
bottle  it,  the  fifth  part  of  the  fugar  mufl  be 
loaf,  and  if  you  like  raifins,  they  are  a  great  ad- 
dition to  the  wine.'  N.  B*  You  may  make 
birch  wine  the  fame  way. 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      y>~ 

To  make  Birch  Wine  afecondWay. 

BOIL  twenty  gallons  of  birch  water  half  an 
hour,  then  put  in  thirty  pounds  of  baftard  fugar, 
boil  your  liquor  and  fugar  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,  and  keep  fcumming  it  all  the  while,  then 
put  it  into  a  tub  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is  quite 
cold,  add  to  it  three  pints  of  yeft,  ftir  it  three 
or  four  times  a  day  for  four  or  five  days,  then 
put  it  into  a  calk  with  two  pounds  of  Malaga 
raifins,  and  one  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  and  half 
an  ounce  of  ifinglafs,  which  muft  be  diflblved  in 
part  of  the  liquor,  then  put  to  it  one  gallon  of 
new  ale  that  is  ready  for  tunning,  work  it  very 
well  in  the  calk  five  or  fix  days,  then  clofe  it  up 
and  let  it  ftand  a  year,  then  bottJe  it  oft. 

To  make  Walnut  Wine. 

TO  every  gallon  of  water  put  two  pounds  of 
brown  fugar  and  one  pound  of  honey,  boil  them 
half  an  hour,  and  take  off  the  fcum,  put  into 
the  tub  a  handful  of  walnut  leaves  to  every  gal- 
lon and  pour  the  liquor  upon  them,  let  it  ftand 
all  night,  then  take  out  the  leaves,  and  put  in 
half  a  pint  of  yeft,  and  let  it  work  fourteen 
days,  beat  it  four  or  five  times  a  day,  which 
will  take  off  the  fweetnefs,  then  ftop  up  the 
calk,  and  let  it  ftand  fix  months. — This  is  a 
good  wine  againft  confumptions,  or  any  inward 
complaints. 

To  make  Cowslip  Wine. 
TO  two  gallons  of  water  add  two  pounds  and 
a  half  of  powder  fugar,  boil  them  half  an  hour, 

Y  3  .  and 


^6  THE    EXPERIENCED 

and  take  off  the  fcum  as  it  rifes,  then  pour  it 
into  a  tub  to  cool,  with  the  rinds  of  two  lemons ; 
when  it  is  cold  add  four  quarts  of  cowflip  flow- 
ers to  the  liquor,  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
let  it  ftand  in  the  tub  two  days,  ftirring  it  every 
two  or  three  hours,  and  then  put  it  in  the  bar- 
rel, and  let  it  ftand  three  weeks  or  a  mouth, 
then  bottle  it,  and  put  a  lump  of  fugar  into 
every  bottle. — ; — N,  B.  It  makes  the  beft  and 
ftrongeft  wine  to  have  only  the  tops  of  the  peeps, 

A  fecond  Way  to  make  Cowslip  Wine. 

BOIL  twelve  gallons  of  water  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  then  add  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  loaf 
fugar  to  every  gallon  of  water,  then  boil  it  as 
long  as  the  fcum  rifes  till  it  clears  itfelf,  when 
almoft  cold  pour  it  into  a  tub,  with  one  fpoon- 
ful  of  yeft,  Itt  it  work  one  day,  then  put  in 
thirty-two  quarts  of  cowilip  flowers,  and  let  it 
work  two  or  three  days,  then  put  it  all  into  a 
barrel,  with  the  parings  of  twelve  lemons,  the 
fame  of  oranges,  make  the  juice  of  them  into  a 
thick  iyrup,  with  two  or  three  pounds  of  loaf 
fugar  y  when  the  wine  has  done  working,  add 
the  fyrup  to  it,  then  flop  up  your  barrel  very 
well  and  let  it  ftand  two  or  three  months,  then 
bottle  it. 

51?  make  Elder  Flower  Wine. 

TAKE  the  flowers  of  elder,  and  be  careful 
that  you  do  not  let  any  ftalks  in,  to  every  quart  of 
flowers  put  one  gallon  of  water  and  three  pounds 
of  loaf  iugar,  boil  the  water  and  fugar  a  quar- 
ter of  an  hour,  then  pour  it  on  the  flowers,  and 

let 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.       327 

let  it  work  three  days, then  ftrain  thewinethrough 
a  hair  fieve,  and  put  it  into  a  cafk, ;  to  every  tea 
gallons  of  wine  add  one  ounce  of  ifinglafs  dif- 
folved  in  cyder,  and  fix  whole  eggs,  clofe  it  up, 
and  let  it  Hand  fix  months,   and  then  bottle  it. 

To  make  Balm  Wine. 
TAKE  nine  gallons  of  water  to  forty  pounds 
of  fugar,  boil  them  gently  for  two  hours,  fcum 
it  well,  then  put  it  into  a  tub  to  cool,  then  take 
two  pounds  and  a  half  of  the  tops  of  balm,  bruife 
it,  and  put  it  into  a  barrel  v/ith  a  little  new 
yeft,  and  when  the  liquor  is  cold,  pour  it  on 
the  balm,  ftir  it  well  together,  ajid  let  it 
Hand  twenty-four  hours,  and  keep  ftirring  it 
often,  then  clofe  it  up,  and  let  it  (land  fix  weeks, 
then  rack  it  off",  and  put  a  lump  of  fugar  into 
every  bottle,  cork  it  well,  and  it  will  be  better 

the  feeond  year  than  the  firft.- N.  B.  Clary 

wine  is  made  the  fame  way. 

To  make  Imperial   Water. 

PUT  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar  into  a 
large  jar,  with  the  juice  and  peels  of  two  lemons, 
pour  on  them  (even  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
when  it  is  cold,  clear  it  through  a  gauze  fieve, 
fweeten  it  to  your  tafte,  and  bottle  it.— It  will 
be  fit  to  ufe  the  next  day. 

To  cure  acid  Raisin  Wine. 

THE  following  ingredients  mud  he  propor^ 
tioned  to  the  degrees  of  acidity  or  fournefs,  if 
but  fmall,  you  muft  ufe  lefs,  if  a  Wronger  acid, 
a  larger  quantity,  it  muft  be  proportioned  to  the 
quantity  of  wine,  as  well  as  the  degree  of  acidity 
Y  4  or 


32S  THE   EXPERIENCED 

or  fournefsj  be  fure  that  the  cafk  be  near 
full  before  you  apply  the  ingredients,  which 
will  have  this  good  effect,  the  acid  part  of  the 
wine  will  rife  to  the  top  immediately,  and  iffue 
out  at  the  bung-hole,  but  if  the  calk  be  not  full, 
the  part  that  fhould  fly  off  will  continue  in  the 
cafk,  and  weaken  the  body  of  the  wine,  but  if 
your  cafk  be  full,  it  will  be  ready  to  have  a  body 
laid  on  it  in  three  or  four  days  time. — I  fhall 
here  proportion  the  ingredints  for  a  pipe ;  fup- 
pofing  it  to  be  quite  acid,  that  is  juft  recoverable. 
Take  two  gallons  of  fkimmed  milk,  and  two 
ounces  of  ifinglafs,  boil  them  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  ftrajin  the  liquor  and  let  it  ftand  until  it  is 
cold,  then  break  it  well  with  your  whifk,  add 
to  it  four  pounds  of  alabafter,  and  three  pounds 
of  whiting,  ftir  them  well  up  together,  then  put 
in  one  ounce  of  fait  of  tartar,  mix  by  degrees  a 
little  of  the  wine  with  it  fo  as  to  diffolve  it  to  a 
thin  liquor,  put  thefe  in  your  cafk,  and  ftir  it 
well  with  a  paddle,  and  it  will  immediately  dif- 
charge  the  acid  part  from  it  as  before  mentioned; 
when  it  has  done  fermenting,  bung  it  up  for  three 
days,  then  rack  it  off,  and  you  will  find  part  of 
its  body  gone  off  by  the  ftrong  fermentation  ;  to 
remedy  this,  you  mult  lay  a  frefh  body  on  in 
proportion  to  the  degree  to  which  it  hath  been 
lowered  by  the  above  method,  always  having  a 
fpecial  care  not  to  alter  its  flavour,  and  this  muft 
be  done  with  clarified  fugar,  for  no  fluid  will 
agree  with  it,  but  what  will  make  it  thinner,  or 
confer  its  own  tafte,  therefore  the  following  is 
the  beft  method  for  performing  it :  to  lay  a  frefh 
body  on  wine,  take  three  quarters  of  an  hun- 
dred 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER,  329 
dred  of  brown  fugar,  and  put  it  into  your  cop- 
per, then  put  in  a  gallon  of  lime  water  to  keep 
it  from  burning,  ftir  it  all  the  while  till  it  boils, 
then  mafh  three  eggs  and  {hells  all  together,  add 
them  to  the  fugar,  and  keep  it  ftirring  about,  and 
as  the  fcum  or  filth  rifes  take  it  off  very  clean, 
then  put  it  in  your  can,  and  let  it  ftand  till  it  is 
cold  before  you  ufe  it,  then  break  it  with  your 
whifk  by  degrees,  with  about  ten  gallons  of  the 
wine,  and  apply  it  to  the  pipe,  work  it  with  the1 
paddle  an  hour,  then  put  a  quart  of  ftum-forcing 
to  it,  which  will  unite  their  bodies,  and  make 
it  fine  and  bright. 

To  make  Stum. 

TAKE  a  five  gallon\:afk  that  has  been  well 
foaked  in  water,  fet  it  to  drain,  then  take  a  pound 
of  roll  brimftone  and  melt  it  in  a  ladle,  put  as- 
many  rags  to  it  as  will  fuck  up  the  melted  brim- 
ftone, burn  all  thofe  rags  in  the  cafk,  cover  the 
bung-hole  but  let  it  have  a  little  air,  fo  that  it 
will  keep  burning ;  when  it  is  burned  out,  put  to 
it  three  gallons  of  the  ftrongeft  cyder,  and  one 
ounce  of  common  alum  pounded,  mix  it  with 
the  cyder  in  the  cafk,  and  roll  it  about  five  or 
fix  times  a  day,  for  ten  days,  then  take  out  the 
bung,  and  hang  the  remainder  of  the  rags  on  a 
wire  in  the  cafk,  as  near  the  cyder  as  poffible, 
and  fet  them  on  fire  as  before,  when  it  is  burnt 
out  bung  the  cafk  clofe,  and  roll  it  well  about 
three  or  four  times  a  day  for  two  days,  then  let 
it  ftand  feven  or  eight  days,  and  this  liquor  will 
be  fo  ftrong  as  to  affed:  your  eyes  by  looking  at 
it.     When  you  force  a  pipe  of  wine  take  a  quart 

of 


fcSG  THE    EXPERIENCED 

of  this  liquor,  beat  half  an  ounce  of  ifinglafs, 
and  puli  it  in  fmall  pieces,  whifk  it  together, 
and  it  will  diffolve  in  four  or  five  hours,  break 
the  jelly  with  your  whifk,  add  a  pound  of  ala- 
bafter  to  it  and  diffolve  it  in  a  little  of  the  wine, 
then  put  it  in  the  pipe  and  bung  it  clofe  up, 
and  in  a  day's  time  it  will  be  fine  and  bright. 

To  refine  Malt  Liquor, 

TO  cure  a  hogfhead  of  four  ale :  Take  two 
ounces  of  ifinglais,  diffolve  it  in  two  quarts  of 
new  ale,  and  fet  it  all  night  by  the  fire,  then  take 
two  pounds  of  ccarfe  brown  fugar,  and  boil  it 
in  a  quart  of  new  wort,  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
then  put  it  into  a  pail,  with  two  gallons  of  new 
ale  out  of  the  kear,  whifk  the  above  ingredients 
very  well  for  an  hour  or  more  till  it  be  all  of  a 
white  froth,  beat  very  fine  one  pound  of  plafter 
.  F  Paris,  and  put  it  into  your  cafk,  with  the 
fermentation,  and  whifk  it  very  well  for  half  an 
hour  in  your  c  ,fk  with  a  ftrong  hand,  until  you 
have  brought  all  the  filth  and  fediments  from  the 
bottom  ol  your  calk,  and  it  will  look  white;  if 
your  cafk  be  not  full,  fill  it  up  with  new  ale, 
and  the  fermentation  will  have  this  good  effect; 
the  acid  part  of  the  ale  will  rife  to  the  top'  im- 
mediately, and  iffue  out  at  the  bung  hole,  but, 
if  the  calk  be  not  full;  the  part  that  fhould  fly 
out  will  continue  in,  and  weaken  the  body  of 
the  ale,  be  fine  you  do  not  fail  filling  up  your  cafk 
four  or  five  times  a  day,  until  it  has  done  work- 
ing:, and  all  the  fournefsor  white  muddy  part  is 
gone,  and  when  it  begins  to  look  like  new  tun- 
ned 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      331 

ned  ale,  put  in  a  large  handful  of  fpent  hops, 
clofe  it  up,  and  let  it  ftand  fix  weeks ;  if  it  be 
not  fine,  and  cream  like  bottled  ale,  let  it  ftand 
a  month  longer,  and  it  will  drink  briik  like  bot- 
tled ale  ;  this  is  an  excellent  method,  and  I  have 
ufed  it  to  ale  that  has  been  both  white  and  four, 
and  never  found  it  to  fail.  If  you  have  any  malt 
that  you  fufpect  is  not  good,  lave  out  two  gal- 
lons of  wort,  and  a  few  hours  before  you  want 
it,  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  barm,  and  when  you 
have  tunned  your  drink  into  the  barrel,  and  it 
hath  quite  done  working,  make  the  above  fer- 
mentation, and  when  you  have  put  it  in  the  bar- 
rel whifk  it  very  well  for  half  an  hour,  and  it 
will  fet  your  ale  on  working  afreih,  and  when 
the  two  gallons  is  worked  white  over,  keep  fill- 
ing up  your  barrel  with  it  four  or  five  times  a 
day,  and  let  it  work  four  or  five  days,  when  it 
has  done  working  clofe  it  up  :  if  the  malt  has 
got  any  bad  fmack  or  taite,  or  be  of  a  fluid 
nature,  this  will  take  it  off. 

To  make  Sack  Mead. 

TO  every  gallon  of  water  add  four  pounds  of 
honey,  boil  it  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and 
fcum  it  as  before,  to  each  gallon  add  half  an 
ounce  of  hops,  then  boil  it  half  an  hour,  and 
let  it  ftand  till  the  next  day,  then  put  it  in  your 
caik,  and  to  thirteen  gallons  of  the  above  liquor, 
add  a  quart  of  brandy  or  fack,  let  it  be  lightly 
clofed  till  the  fermentation  is  quite  done,  then 
make  it  up  very  clofe  ;  if  it  be  a  large  cafk  let 
i      and  a  year  before  you  bottle  it. 


332  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  make  Cowslip  Mead, 

TO  fifteen  gallons  of  water  put  thirty  pounds 
of  honey,  boil  it  till  one  gallon  is  wailed,  fcum 
it,  then  take  it  off  the  fire,  have  ready  fixteen 
lemons  cut  in  halves,  take  a  gallon  of  the  liquor, 
and  put  it  to  the  lemons,  put  the  reft  of  the 
liquor  into  a  tub,  with  feven  pecks  of  cowflips, 
and  let  them  ftand  all  night,  then  put  in  the 
liquor  with  the  lemons,  and  eight  fpoonfuls  of 
new  yeft,  a  handful  of  fvveet  briar,  ftir  them 
all  well  together,  and  let  it  work  three  or  four 
days,  then  ftrain  it,  and  put  it  in  your  cafk,  and 
in  fix  months  time  you  may  bottle  it. 

To  make  Walnut  Mead. 

To  every  gallon  of  water  put  three  pounds 
and  a  half  of  honey,  boil  them  together  three 
quarters  of  an  hour,  to  every  gallon  of  liquor 
put  about  two  dozen  of  walnut  leaves,  pour 
your  liquor  boiling  hot  upon  them,  let  them 
ftand  all  night,  then  take  the  leaves  out  and  put 
in  a  fpoonful  of  yeft,  and  let  it  work  two  or 
three  days,  then  make  it  up,  and  let  it  ftand 
three  months,  then  bottle  it. 

To  make  Ozyat. 

BLANCH  a  pound  of  fweet  almonds,  and 
the  fame  of  bitter,  beat  them  very  fine,  with  fix 
fpoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water,  take  three 
ounces  of  the  four  cold  feeds,  if  you  beat  the 
almonds,  but  if  you  do  not  beat  them,  you  muft 
take  fix  ounces  of  the  four  cold  feeds,  then  with 
two  quarts  cf  fpring  water,  rub  your  pounded 

feeds 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      333 

feeds  and  almonds  fix  times  through  a  napkin, 
then  add  four  pounds  of  treble  refined  fugar, 
boil  it  to  a  thin  fyrup,  fkim  it  well,  and  when 
it  is  cold,  then  bottle  it. 

To  make  Oz yat  afecond  Way. 

BOIL  two  quarts  of  milk  with  a  flick  of 
cinnamon  in  it,  let  it  ftand  till  it  be  quite  cold, 
then  blanch  two  ounces  of  the  beft  fweet  al- 
monds* and  about  ten  or  twelve  bitter  almonds, 
pound  them  together  in  a  marble  mortar  with  a 
little  rofe  water,  then  mix  them  well  with  the 
milk,  fweeten  it  to  your  tafte,  and  give  it  one 
boil,  (train  it  through  a  very  fine  fieve  till  it  is 
quite  fmooth  and  free  from  almonds.  Send  it 
up  in  ozyat  glafles  with  handles,  and  quite  cold ; 
take  great  care  you  do  not  boil  it  too  much,  and 
that  the  almonds  do  not  turn  to  oil. 

Lemon  adz  for  the  fame  Ufe. 

TO  one  quart  of  boiled  water,  add  the  juice 
of  fix  lemons,  rub  the  rinds  of  the  lemons  with 
loaf  fugar  to  your  own  tafte  ;  when  the  water  is 
near  cold,  mix  the  juice  and  fugar  with  it,  then 
bottle  it  for  ufe. 

To  make  Lemonade  afecond  Way. 

PARE  fix  or  eight  large  lemons,  put  the 
peels  into  a  pint  of  water,  give  them  a  boil, 
when  cold  fqueeze  your  lemons  into  it,  and  put 
in  one  pound  of  fugar,  then  ftrain  it  through  a 
lawn   fieve  to  as   much  water  as  will  make  it 

pleafant ; 


334  THE   EXPERIENCED 

pleafant ;  juft  before  you  fend  it  up  put  in  a  pint 
of  white  wine  and  the  juice  of  an  orange  if  you 
like  it. 

To  make  Lemonade  a  third  Way. 

TAKE  the  rinds  of  fix  lemons  pared  very 
thin,  and  put  them  in  a  pan  with  about  twelve 
ounces  of  fugar,  with  a  quart  of  pump  water 
made  not  too  hot ;  let  it  ftand  a  night,  then 
fqueeze  the  juice  of  your  lemons  into  it,  with 
one  fpoonful  of  orange  flower  water,  and  run  it 
through  a  bag  till  it  looks  clear. 

To  make  a  rich  Acid  for  Punch. 

BAKE  red.  currants  and  (train  them  as  you 
do  for  jellies,  take  a  gallon  of  the  juice,  put  to 
it  two  quarts  of  new  milk,  crufh  pearl  goofe- 
berries  when  full  ripe,  and  ft  rath  them  through 
a  coarfe  cloth,  add  two  quarts  of  the  juice,  and 
three  pounds  of  double  refined  fugar,  three  quarts 
ofrumandtwo  of  brandy,  one  ounce  of  ifinglafs 
diffolved  in  part  of  the  liquor,  mix  it  all  up  to- 
gether, and  put  it  in  a  little  calk,  and  let  it 
itand  fix  weeks,  and  then  bottle  it  for  ufe«  It 
will  keep  many  years  and  fave  much  fruit. 

To  make  Orange  Juice  to  keep. 

SQUEEZE  your  oranges  into  a  pan,  then 
ftrain  them  through  a  very  coarfe  lieve,  after 
that  through  a  very  fine  lieve  ]  meafure  your 
juice,  and  to  every  pint  put  a  pound  of  fine 
loaf  fugar,  let  it  ftand  together  all  night  covered 
i  over, 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      33, 

over,  then  take  off  the  fcum,  ftir  it  well  in  the 
pan,  and  put  it  in  dry  pint  bottles,  put  in  a 
fpoonful  of  brandy,  after  they  are  filled  tie  it 
over  the  cork  with  leather ;  if  you  do  not  choofe 
to  put  fpirits  in,  a  little  oil  will  do,  to  be  taken 
off  clean  before  you  ufe  it  •,  keep  it  in  a  dry 
place,  and  it  will  be  good  for  two  years.  The 
pulp  that  will  be  in  your  fine  fieye  will  make 
marmalade. 

To  make  Shrub. 

-  TAKE  a  gallon  of  new  milk,  put  to  It  two 
quarts  of  red  wine,  pare  fix  lemons  and  four 
Seville  oranges  very  thin,  put  in  the  rinds,  and 
the  juice  of  twelve  of  each  fort,  two  gallons  of 
rum  and  one  of  brandy,  let  it  ftand  twenty-four 
hours,  add  to  it  two  pounds  of  double  refined 
fugar,  and  ftir  it  well  together,  then  put  it  in  a 
jug,  cover  it  clofe  up  and  let  it  ftand  a  fortnight, 
then  run  it  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  bottle  it 
for  ufe. 

To  make  Sherbet. 

TAKE  nine  Seville  oranges  and  three  lemons, 
grate  off  the  yellow  rinds  and  put  the  rafpings 
into  a  gallon  of  water,  and  three  pounds  of 
double  refined  fugar,and  boil  it  to  a  candy  heigh  t> 
then  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  put  in  the  juice  the 
pulp  of  the  above,  and  keep  ftirring  it  until  it 
is  almoftcold,  then  put  it  in  a  pot  for  ufe. 

To  make  fine  Sherbet  a  fecond  Way, 

PARE  four  large  lemons  and  boil  the  peek 
in  fix  quarts  of  water  and  a  little  ginger  cut  fine, 
boil  them  a  quarter  of  an  hour,   then  add  to  it 

three 


336  THE   EXPERIENCED 

three  pounds  of  fugar,  and  when  it  is  cold  put 
in  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  ftrain  it,  and  it 
is  fit  for  ufe. 

To  make  Sherbet  a  third  Way. 

TAKE  twelve  quarts  of  water  to  fix  pounds 
of  Malaga  raifins,  (lice  fix  lemons  into  it,  with 
one  pound  of  fixpenny  fugar,  put  them  all  to- 
gether into  an  earthen  pan,  let  it  fland  three 
days,  ftirring  it  three  times  a  day,  then  take 
them  out,  and  let  them  drain  in  a  flannel  bag, 
then  bottle  it  ;  do  not  fill  the  bottles  too  full 
left  they  burft.  It  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  about 
a  fortnight. 

To  make  Raspberry  Brandy. 

GATHER  the  rafpberries  when  the  fun  is 
hot  upon  them,  and  as  foon  as  ever  you  have  got 
them,  to  every  five  quarts  of  rafpberries  put  one 
quart  of  the  beft  brandy,  boil  a  quart  of  water 
five  minutes  with  a  pound  of  double  refined  fugar 
in  it,  and  pour  it  boiling  hot  on  the  berries, 
let  it  fland  all  night,  then  add  nine  quarts 
more  brandy,  ftir  it  about  very  well,  put  it  in 
a  ftone  bottle,  and  let  it  (land  a  month  or  fix 
weeks ;   when  fine  bottle  it. 

To  make  Black  Cherry  Brandy. 

TAKE  out  the  ftones  of  eight  pounds  of  black 

cherries,  and  put  on  them  a  gallon  of  the  beft 

brandy,  bruife  the  ftones  in  a  mortar,  then  put 

them  in  youj  brandy,  cover  them  up  clofe  and 

2  let 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  337 
let  them  {land  a  month  or  fix  weeks,  then  pour 
it  clear  from  the  fediments  and  bottle  it. 

To  make  Orange  Brandy. 

PARE  eight  oranges  very  thin,  and  fteepthe 
peels  in  a  quart  of  brandy  forty-eight  hours  in 
a  clofe  pitcher,  then  take  three  pints  of  water 
and  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  fugar,  boil 
it  until  it  is  reduced  to  half  the  quantity,  then 
let  it  ftand  till  it  is  cold,  then  mix  it  with  the 
brandy ;  let  it  ftand  fourteen  days,  and  then 
bottle  it. 

To  make  Almond  Shrub. 

TAKE  three  gallons  of  rum  or  brandy,  three 
quarts  of  orange  juice,  the  peels  of  three  lemons, 
three  pounds  of  loaf  fugar,  then  take  four 
ounces  of  bitter  almonds,  blanch  and  beat  them 
fine,  mix  them  in  a  pint  of  milk,  then  mix 
them  all  well  together,  let  it  ftand  an  hour  to 
curdle,  run  it  through  a  flannel  bag  feveral  times 
till  it  is  clear,  then  bottle  it  for  ufe. 

To  make  Currant  Shrub. 

PICK  your  currants  clean  from  the  ftalks 
when  they  are  full  ripe,  and  put  twenty-four 
pounds  into  a  pitcher,  with  two  pounds  of  fingle 
refined  fugar,  clofe  the  jug  well  up,  and  put  it 
into  a  pan  of  boiling  water  till  they  are  foft, 
then  ftrain  them  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  to 
every  quart  of  juice  put  one  quart  of  brandy,  a 
pint  of  red  wine,  one  quart  of  new  milk,  a 
pound  of  double  refined  fugar,  and  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  well  beat,  mix   them  all  together, 

Z  and 


338  THE    EXPERIENCED 

and  cover  them  clofe  up  two  daysy  then  run  it 
through  a  jelly  bag  and  bottle  it  for  uie. 

To  make  Walnut  Catchup. 

TAKE  green  walnuts  before  the  fhell  is 
formed,  and  grind  them  in  a  crab  mill,  or  pound 
them  in  a  marble  mortar,  fqueeze  out  the  juice 
through  a  co-arfe  cloth,  put  to  every  gallon  of 
juice  one  pound  of  anchovies,  one  pound  of  bay 
fait,  four  ounces  of  Jamaica  pepper,  two  of 
long,  and  two  of  black  pepper,  of  mace,  cloves, 
and  ginger,  each  one  ounce,  and  a  flick  of  horfe- 
radifh;  boil  all  together  till  reduced  to  half  the 
quantity,  put  it  in  a  pot,  and  when  cold  bottle 
it;   it  will  be  ready  in  three  months.. 

To  make  Walnut  Catchup  another  Way. 

PUT  your  walnuts  in  jars,  cover  them  with 
cold  ftrong  ale  allegar,  tie  them  clofe  for  twelve 
months,  then  take  the  walnuts  out  from  the 
allegar,  and  put  to  every  gallon  of  the  liquor 
two  heads  of  garlick,  half  a  pound  of  ancho- 
vies, one  quart  of  red  wine,  one  ounce  of  mace, 
one  of  cloves,  one  of  long,  one  of  black,  and 
one  of  Jamaica  pepper,  with  one  of  ginger,  boil 
them  all  in  the  liquor  till  it  is  reduced  to  half 
the  quantity,  the  next  day  bottle  it  for  ufe;  it 
is  good  in  fifli  fauce,  or  ftewed  beef.  In  my 
opinion  it  is  an  excellent  catchup,  for  the  longer 
it  is  kept  the  better  it  is,  I  have  kept  it  five 
years,    and   it  was  much  better  than  when  firft 

made. -N.  i>.  You  may  findJiow  to  pickle 

the 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  339 
the  walnuts  you  have  taken  out,  amongft  the 
other  pickles. 

To  make  Mvm  Catchup. 

TO  a  quart  of  old  mum  put  four  ounces  of 
anchovies,  of  mace  and  nutmegs  diced  one 
ounce,  of  cloves  and  black  pepper  half  an 
ounce,  boil  it  till  it  is  reduced  one  third  5  when 
cold  bottle  it  for  ufe. 

To  make  a  Catchup  to  keep /even  Tears. 

TAKE  two  quarts  of  the  oldeft  ftrong  beer 
you  can  get,  put  to  it  one  quart  of  red  wine, 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  anchovies,  three 
ounces  of  (halots  peeled,  half  an  ounce  of  mace, 
the  fame  of  nutmegs  ;  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves,  three  large  races  of  ginger  cut  in  dices, 
boil  all  together  over  a  moderate  fire,  till  one 
third  is  wafted,  the  next  day  bottle  it  for  ufe  5 
it  will  carry  to  the  Eaft  Indies. 

To  make  Mushroom  Catchup. 

TAKE  the  full  grown  flaps  of  mufhrooms, 
crufti  them  with  your  hands,  throw  a  handful  of 
fait  into  every  peck  of  mufhrooms,  and  let  them 
jftand  all  night,  then  put  them  into  ftew-pans, 
and  fet  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  twelve  hours, 
and  ftrain  them  through  Vl  hair  fieve;  to  every 
gallon  of  liquor,  put  of  cloves,  Jamaica,  black 
pepper,  and  ginger,  one  ounce  each,  and  half  a 
pound  of  common  fait,  fet  it  on  a  flow  fire,  and 
let  it  boil  till  half  the  liquor  is  wafted  away ;  then 
put  it  in  a  clean  pot,  when  cold  bottle  it  for  ufe. 

Z  a  To 


34° 


THE  EXPERIENCED 


tfo  make  Mushroom  Powder. 

TAKE  the  thickeft  large  buttons  you  can  get'? 
peel  them,  cut  off"  the  root  end,  but  do  not  wafh 
them,  fpread  them  feparately  on  pewter  dimes, 
and  fet  them  in  a  flow  oven  to  dry,  let  the  liquor 
dry  up  into  the  mufhrooms,  it  makes  the  powder 
ftronger,  and  let  them  continue  in  the  oven  til) 
you  find  they  will  powder,  then  beat  them  in  a 
marble  mortar,  and  fift  them  through  a  fine  fieve, 
with  a  little  Chyan  pepper,  and  pounded  mace  5 
bottle  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  clofet. 

To  /^Tarragon  Vinegar. 

TAKE  tarragon  juft  as  it  is  going  into  bloom, 
ftrip  ofFthe  leaves,  and  to  every  pound  of  leaves 
put  a  gallon  of  ftrong  white  wine  vinegar  in  a 
Hone  jug  to  ferment  for  a  fortnight,  then  run  it 
through  a  flannel  bag  ;  to  every  four  gallons  of 
vinegar  put  half  an  ounce  of  ifinglafs  diflblved 
in  cyder,  mix  it  well  with  vinegar,  then  put  it 
into  large  bottles,  and  let  it  jftand  one  month  to 
fine,  then  rack  it  off,  and  put  it  into  pint  bot- 
tles for  ufc. 

¥0  make  Elder  Flower  Vinegar, 

TO  every  peck  of  the  peeps  of  elder  flower* 
put  two  gallons  of  ftrong  ale  allegar  $  and  fet  it 
in  the  fun  in  a  ftone  jug  for  a  fortnight,  then 
filter  it  through  a  flannel  bag  ;  when  you  bottle. 
it,  put  it  in  fmall  bottles,  it  keeps  the  flavour 
much  better  than  large  ones. — —Be  careful  you 

do  not  drop  any  flalks  among  the  peeps. It 

makes 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      341 

jnakes   a  pretty  mixture  on  a  fide  table,  with 
tarragon  vinegar,  lemon  pickle,  &c. 

To  make  Gooseberry  Vinegar. 

TAKE  the  ripeft  goofeberries  you  can  get, 
crufh  them  with  your  hand  in  a  tub,  to  eyery 
peck  of  goofeberries  put  two  gallons  of  water, 
mix  them  well  together,  and  let  them  work  for 
three  weeks,  ftir  them  up  three  or  four  times  a 
day,  then  ilrain  the  liquor  through  a  hair  fieve, 
and  put  to  every  gallon  a  pound  of  brown  fugar, 
a  pound  of  treacle,  a  fpoonful  of  fre(h  barm, 
and  let  it  work  three  or  four  days  in  the  fame  tub 
well  warned,  run  it  into  iron-hooped  barrels, 
and  let  itftand  twelve  months,  then  draw  it  into 
bottles  fpr  ufe. — :This  far  exceeds  any  white 
wine,  vinegar* 

To  make  Sugar  Vinegae. 

PUT  nine  pounds  of  brown  fugar  to  every 
fix  gallons  of  water,  boil  it  for  a  quarter  of  ah 
hour,  then  put  it  into  a  tub  lukewarm,  put  to  it 
a  pint  of  new  barm,  let  it  work  for  four  or  fiye 
days,  ftir  it  up  three  or  four  times  a  day,  then 
tun  it  into  a  clean  barrel  iron-hooped,  and  fetit 
full  in  the  fun ;  if  you  make  it  in  February  it 
will  be  fit  for  ufe  in  Auguft;  you  may  ufe  it 
for  mod:  forts  of  pickles,  except  mufhrooms  and 
walnuts. 


CHAP. 


342  THE    EXPERIENCED 

CHAP.     XVI. 

Obfervations  on  Pickling. 

PICKLING  is  a  very  ufeful  thing  in  a  fa- 
mily, but  is  often  ill  managed,  or  at  leaffc 
made  to  pleafe  the  eye  by  pernicious  things, 
which  is  the  cnly  thing  that  ought  to  be  avoid- 
ed, for  nothing  is  more  common  than  to  green 
pickles  in  a  brafs  pan  for  the  lake  of  having 
them  a  good  green,  when  at  the  fame  time  they 
will  green  as  well  by  heating  the  liquor,  and 
keeping  them  on  a  proper  heat  upon  the  hearth, 
without  the  help  of  brafs,  or  verdegreafe  of  any 
kind,  for  it  is  poifon  to  a  great  degree,  and  no- 
thins  ouoht  to  be  avoided  more  than  ufing  brafs 
or  cooper  that  is  not  well  tinned  3  but  the  beft 
-.  and  the  only  caution  I  can  give,  is  to  be 
vtr  particular  in  keeping  the  pickles  from  any 
thing  of  that  kind,  and  follow  ftrictly  the  di- 
rection of  your  receipts,  as  you  will  find  receipts 
for  any  kind  of  pickles,  without  being  put 
in  fait  and  water  at  all,  and  greened  only  by 
aring  your  vinegar  hot  upon  them,  and  it  will 
;  them  a  long  time. 

7i  pickle  Cucumbers. 

L.XE  the  fmalleft  cucumbers  you  can  get, 

3  as  free  from  fpcts  as  poilihle,  put  them  into 

a  ftrong  fait  and  water  for  nine  or  ten  days   or 

they  are  quite  yellow,  and  ftir  them  twice  a 

:,  or  they  will  fcum  over,   and  grow 

.re  thoroughly  yellow  pour  the 

water 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER. 

-water  from  them,  and  cover  them  with  plenty 
cf  vine  leaves,  fet  your  4  sr  the  fire, 

it  boils  pour  it  upon  them,  and  fet  them  on  the 
hearth    to   keep   warm,  when  :'.  i      ater  gr: 
cool,   e  it   boiling   he:  nd  pour  it 

upon  them,   keep  doing  fo  till  you   fee  they  are 
a  fine  green,  which  will  be  in  fcurcr  five  tin- 
be  fure  you  keep  them  well  covered  -~e 
leaves,  a  cloth  and  di(h  over  the  top  to  ktep  in 
the  Iteam,  it  helps  to  green  them  fooner;  w 
they  are  greened,  put  them  into  a  hair  fieve  to 
in,  then  make  a  pickle  for  th             :  every 
two  quarts  of  white  wine  vinegar,   put  I 
ounce  of  mace,  and  ten  or  twelve  c             one 
ounce  of  ginger  cut  in  dices,  the  I 
pepper,  and  a  handful  of  fait,  boil  them  all  to- 
gether five  minutes,  then  pour  it  h 
pic:             id  tie  :hem  down  with  a  ':  for 
ufe. — N.  B.  You  may  pickle  their.                 ille- 
r,  or  diftilled  vinegar  ;   if  you  ufe  vinegar,  it 
mull:  not  be  boiled;  you  may              "cc  ::  four 
clc   —    ::  garlick  o;              ,  they  are  very  good 
-ping  the  pickle  from  car 


r> 


C  .  :;:::ers  a  J.  -*ay. 

GATHER   your  cucumbers    on  a  dry  day, 
and  put  them  into  a  r  -:;:::  i  pitcher,  put 

to  them  a  head  cf  garlic.-:,  a  few  white  r. 

is,  and  a  few  blades  of  mace,   hall  an  ounce 

of  black  pepper,  the  fame  of  long  pe  end 

iger,  and   a  good  handful   of  fait  into  your 

egar  -,   pour  it  upon  ycur  cucu...  bers  boiling 

hot,  fet  them  bv  the  fire,  and  keeo  them  warm 

Z  4 


344  THE  EXPERIENCED 

for  three  days,  and  boil  your  allegar  once  every 
day,  and  keep  them  clofe  covered  till  they  are 
a  good  green,  and  then  tie  them  down  with  a 
leather,  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 

To  pickle  Cucumbers  injlices. 

GET  your  cucumbers  large  before  the  feeds 
are  ripe,  flice  them  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
then  lay  them  on  a  hair  fieve,  and  betwixt  every 
lay  put  a  fhalot  or  two,  throw  en  a  little  fait,  let 
them  ftand  four  or  five  hours  to  drain,  then  put 
them  in  a  ftonejar,  take  as  much  flrongale  al- 
legar as  will  cover  them,  boil  it  five  minutes, 
with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  a  few  white  pep- 
per corns,  a  little  ginger  fliced,  and  fome  horfe- 
radifh  fcraped,  then  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon 
your  cucumbers,  let  them  ftand  till  they  are! 
cold,  do  fo  for  three  times  more:  let  it  grow 
cold  betwixt  every  time,  then  tie  them  down 
with  a  bladder  for  ufe. 

To  fickle  Mangoes, 

TAKE  the  largeft  cucumbers  you  can  get^ 
before  they  are  too1  ripe,  or  yellow  at  the  ends^ 
then  cut  a  piece  out  of  the  fide,  and  take  out 
the  feeds  with  an  apple  fcraper,  or  a  tea-fpoon, 
and  put  them  in  a  very  ftrong  fait  and  water* 
for  eight  or  nine  days,  or  till  they  are  very  yel- 
low, ftir  them  well  two  or  three  times  each  day, 
then  put  them  into  a  brafs  pan,  with  a  large 
quantity  of  vine  leaves  both  under  and  over 
them,  beat  a  little  roach  alum  very   fine,  and 

4  '  '  Pu^ 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     345 

»ut  it  in  the  fait  and  water  that  they  came  out 
of,  pour  it  upon  your  cucumbers,  and  fet  it  upon 
a  very  flow  fire,  for  four  or  five  hours,  till  they 
are  a  pretty  green,  then  take  them  out  and  drain 
them  on  a  hair  fieve,  when  they  are  cold,  put 
to  them  a  little  horfe-radifti,  then  rnuftard  feed, 
two  or  three  heads^  of  garlick,  a  few  pepper 
corns,  (lice  a  few  green  cucumbers  in  fmall 
pieces,  then  horfe-radifh,  and  the  fame  as  before 
mentioned,  till  you  have  filled  them,  then  take 
the  piece  you  cut  out,  and  few  it  on  with  a  large 
needle  and  thread,  and  do  all  the  reft  the  fame 
way,  have  ready  your  pickle;  to  every  gallon  of 
allegar  put  one  ounce  of  mace,  the  fame  of 
cloves,  two  ounces  of  ginger  fliced,  the  fame 
of  long  pepper,  black  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper, 
three  ounces  of  rhuftard  feed  tied  up  in  a  bag, 
four  ounces  of  garlick,  and  a  (lick  of  horfe- 
radifh  cut  in  dices,  boil  thern  five  minutes  in 
the  allegar,  then  pour  it  upon  your  pickles,  tic 
them  down  and  keep  them  for  ufe. 

To  pickle  Codlings. 

pET  your  qodiings  when  they  are  the  fizeof 
a  large  French  walnut,  put  a  good  deal  of  vine 
leaves  in  the  bottom  of  a  brafs  pan,  then  put  in 
your  codlings,  cover  them  very  well  with  vine 
leaves,  and  fet  them  over  a  very  flow  fire  till  you 
can  peel  the  fkins  off,  then  take  them  carefully 
up  in  a  hair  fieve,  and  peel  them  with  a  pen- 
knife, and  put  them  into  the  fame  pan  again 
with  the  vine  leaves  and  water  as  before,  cover 
them  clofe,  and  fet  them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they 

are 


346  THE    EXPERIENCED 

are  a  fine  green,  then  drain  them  through  a  hair 
iieve,  and  when  they  are  cold  put  them  into 
diftilled  vinegar,pour  a  little  meat  oil  on  the  top, 
and  tie  them  down  with  a  bladder. 

To  pickle  Kidney  Beans. 

GET  your  beans  when  they  are  young  and 
fmall,  then  put  them  into  a  ftrong  fait  and  water 
for  three  days,  ftir  them  up  two  or  three  times 
each  day,  then  put  them  into  a  brafs  pan,  with 
vine  leaves  both  under  and  over  them,  pour  on 
the  fame  water  as  they  came  out  of,  cover  them 
clofe,  and  fet  them  over  a  very  flow  fire  till  they 
are  a  fine  green,  then  put  them  into  a  hair  fieve 
to  drain,  and  make  a  pickle  for  them  of  white 
wine  vinegar,  or  fine  ale  allegar,  boil  it  five 
or  fix  minutes,  with  a  little  mace,  Jamaica 
pepper,  long  pepper,  and  a  race  or  two  of  gin- 
ger fliced,  then  pour  it  hot  upon  the  kidney 
£>eans,  and  tie  them  down  with  a  bladder. 

To  pickle  Samphire. 

WASH  your  famphire  very  well  in  four  fmall 
beer,  then  put  it  into  a  large  brafs  pan,  diffolve 
a  little  bay  fait,  and  twice  the  quantity  of  com- 
mon fait  in  four  beer,  then  fill  up  your  pan  with 
it,  cover  it  clofe,  and  fet  it  over  a  flow  fire  till 
it  is  a  fine  green,,  then  drain  it  through  a  fieve, 
and  put  it  into  jars,  boil  as  much  fugar  vinegar 
or  white  wine  vinegar,  with  a  race  or  two  of 
ginger,  and  a  few  pepper  corns,  as  will  cover 
it;  then  pour  it  hot  upon  your  famphire,  and 
tie  it  well  down, 

ft 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      34.7 

To  pickle  Walnuts  black, 

GATHER  your  walnuts  when  the  fun  is  hot 
upon  them,  and  before  the  (hell  is  hard,  which 
you   may   know  by  running  a  pin  into  them, 
then   put  them  in  a  ftrong  fait  and  water  for 
nine  days,  then  ftir  them  twice  a  day,  and  change 
the  fait  and   water  every  three   days,  then  put 
them  in  a  hair  fieve,  and  let  them  fland  in  the 
air  till   they  turn   black ;  then   put  them  into 
ftrong  ftone  jars,  and  pour  boiling  allegar  over 
them,  cover  them  up,  and  let  them  ftand  till 
they  are  cold,  then  boil  the  allegar  three  tirpes 
more,   and    let  it   ftand  till  it  is  cold  betwixt 
every    time ;  tie   them  down  with  paper  and  a 
bladder    over  them,   and  let  them   ftand  two 
months,  then  take  them  out  of  the  allegar,  and 
make  a  pickle  for  them;  to  every  two  quarts  of 
allegar  put  half  an  ounce  of  mace,   the  fame  of 
cloves,  one  ounce  of  black  pepper,  the  fame  of 
Jamaica  pepper,  ginger,  and  long  pepper,  and 
two  ounces  of  common  fait,  boil  it  ten  minutes, 
and  pour  it  hot  upon  your  walnuts,  and  tie  them 
down  with  a  bladder  and  paper  over  it. 

Afecond  Way  to  fickle  Walnuts  black* 

WHEN  you  have  got  your  walnuts  as  before, 
put  them  into  a  cold  ftrong  allegar,  with  a  good 
deal  of  fait  in  it,  let  them  ftand  three  months, 
then  pour  off  the  allegar,  and  boil  it  with  a  lit- 
tle more  fait  in  it,  then  pour  it  upon  your  waU 
nuts,  and  let  them  ftand  till  they  are  cold,  make 
it  hot  again,  and  pour  it  upon  your  walnuts,  and 

do 


348  THE   EXPERIENCED 

c3o  fo  till  they  are  black,  then  put  them  into  % 
hatr  fieve,  and  make  a  pickle  for  them  the  fame 
Tyay  as  above,  keep  them  in  ftrong  ftone  jars, 
and  they  will  be  fit  for  life  in  a  month  or  fi^ 

weeks  time, 

\it.  i 

To  fickle  Walnuts  an  olive  colour. \ 

GATHER  your  walnuts^  and  put  them  in  a 
ftrong  ale  allegar,  and  tie  them  down  with  a 
bladder  and  a  paper  over  it,  to  keep  out  the  air, 
and  let  them  ftand  twelve  months,  then  tak$ 
them  out  of  that  allegar,  and  make  a  pickle  for 
them  of  ftrong  allegar,  and  to  every  quart  put 
half  an  ounce  of  Jamaica  pepper,  the  fame  of 
long  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  the 
fame  of  cloves,  one  head  of  garlick,  and  a  little 
fait,  boil  them  all  together  five  or  %  minutes* 
then  pour  it  upon  your  walnuts  ;  when  it  is  cold, 
Heat  it  again  three  times,  then  tie  them  down 
with  a  bladder,  and  paper  over  it  $  they  will  keep 
feveral  years,  without  either  turning  colour,  or 
growing  foft,if  your  allegar  begood. — N.B.  You 
may  make  exceeding  good  catchup  of  the  alle- 
gar that  comes  from  the  walnuts,  by  adding  a 
pound  of  anchovies,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  the 
fame  of  long  and  black  pepper,  one  head  of 
garlick,  and  half  a  pound  of  common  fait  to 
every  gallon  of  your  allegar ;  boil  it  till  it  is  half 
reduced  away,  and  fcum  it  very  well,  then  bot-* 
tie  it  for  ufe,  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time* 


to 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       349 

To  pickle  Walnuts. 

TAKE  the  largerl  French  walnuts,  pare 
them  till  you  can  fee  the  white  appear,  but  take 
great  care  you  do  not  cut  it  too  deep,  it  will  make 
them  full  of  holes,  put  them  into  fait  and  water 
as  you  pare  them,  or  they  will  turn  black,  when 
you  have  pared  them  all,  have  ready  a  faucepan 
well  tinned,  full  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little 
fait,  then  put  in  your  walnuts,  and  let  them 
boil  five  minutes  very  quick,  then  take  them 
out,  and  fpread  them  betwixt  two  clean  cloths* 
when  they  are  cold  put  them  into  wide  mouthed 
bottles,  and  fill  them  up  with  diftilled  vinegar, 
and  put  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  a  large  tea 
fpoonful  of  eating  oil  into  every  bottle;  the 
next  day  cork  them  well,  and  keep  them  in  a 
dry  place. 

To  pickle  Walnuts  green. 

TAKE  the  large  double,  or  French  walnuts, 
before  the  (hells  are  hard,  wrap  them  fingly  in 
vine  leaves,  put  a  few  vine  leaves  in  the  bottom 
©f  your  jar,  fill  it  near  full  with  your  walnuts, 
take  care  that  they  do  not  touch  one  another,  put 
a  good  many  leaves  over  them,  then  fill  your  jar 
with  good  allegar,  cover  them  clofe  that  the  air 
cannot  get  in,  let  them  ftand  for  three  weeks, 
then  pour  the  allegar  from  them,  put  frefh 
leaves  in  the  bottom  of  another  jar,  take  out 
your  walnuts,  and  wrap  them  feparately  in  frefh 
leaves  as  quick  as  poilibly  you  can,  put  them 
into  your  jar  with  a  good  many  leaves  over  them, 

then 


356  THE   EXPERIENCED 

then  fill  it  with  white  wine  vinegar,  let  them 
ftand  three  weeks,  pour  off  your  vinegar,  and 
wrap  them  as  before  with  frefh  leaves  at  the 
bottom  and  top  of  your  jar,  take  frefli  white 
wine  vinegar,  put  fait  in  it  till  it  will  bear  an 
egg,  add  to  it  mace,  cloves,  nutmeg,  and  gar- 
lick  if  you  choofe  it,  boil  it  about  eight  minutes, 
then  pour  it  on  your  walnuts,  tie  them  clofe 
with  paper  and  a  bladder,  and  fet  them  by  for 

ufe.- Be  fure  to  keep  them  always  covered  ; 

when  you  take  any  out  for  ufe,  what  is  left  mud 
not  be  put  in  again,  but  have  ready  a  frefh  jar 
with  boiled  vinegar  and  fait  to  put  them  in. 

To  pickle  Barberries. 

GET  your  barberries  before  they  are  too  ripe* 
pick  out  the  leaves,  and  dead  ftalks,  then  put 
them  into  jars,  with  a  large  quantity  of  ftrong 
fait  and  water,  and  tie  them  down  with  a  blad- 
der.  AT.  J3.  When  you  fee  your  barberries 

fcum  over  put  them  into  frefh  fait  and  water, 
they  need  no  vinegar,  their  own  fharpnefs  is  fuf* 
iicient  enough  to  keep  them. 

To  pickle  Parsley  green. 

TAKE  a  large  quantity  of  curled  parfley, 
make  a  ftrong  fait  and  water  to  bear  an  egg, 
put  in  your  parfley,  let  it  ftand  a  week,  then 
take  it  out  to  drain,  make  a  frefli  fait  and  water 
as  before,  let  it  ftand  another  week,  then  drain 
it  very  well,  put  it  in  fpring  water,  and  change 
it  every  day  for  three  days,  and  fcald  it  in  hard 
Water,  till  it  becomes  green,  take  it  out  and  drain 
it  quite  dry,  boil  a  quart  of  diftilled  vinegar  a 
6  few 


ENGLISH  HOUSE- KEEPER,  jfp 
few  minutes,  with  two  or  three  blades  of  mace, 
a  nutmeg  fliced,  and  a  fhalot  or  two ;  when  it 
is  quite  cold,  pour  it  on  your  parfley,  with  two 
or  three  flices  of  horfe-radifh,  and  keep  it  for 
ufe. 

To  pickle  Nasturtians. 

GATHER  the  nafturtian  berries  foon  after 
the  bloffbms  are  gone  off,  put  them  in  cold  fait 
and  water,  change  the  water  once  a  day  for  three 
days,  make  your  pickle  of  white  wine  vinegar, 
mace,  mutmeg  fliced,  pepper  corns,  fait,  fha- 
lots,  and  hcrie-radifh ;  it  requires  to  be  made 
pretty  flrong,  as  your  pickle  is  not  to  be  boiled  ^ 
when  you  have  drained  them,  put  them  into  a 
jar,  and  pour  the  pickle  over  them. 

To  pickle  Radish  Pods. 

GATHER  your  radifh  pods  when  they  are 
quite  young,  and  put  them  in  fait  and  water  all 
night,  then  boil  the  fait  and  water  they  were 
laid  in,  and  pour  it  upon  your  pods,  and  cover 
your  jars  clofe  to  keep  in  the  fleam  y  when  it 
grows  cold,  make  it  boiling  hot,  and  pour  it  on 
again ;  keep  doing  fo  till  your  pods  are  quite 
green,  then  put  them  on  a  fieve  to  drain,  and 
make  a  pickle  for  them  of  white  wine  vinegar,. 
with  a  little  mace,  ginger,  long  pepper,  and 
horfe-radifh,  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  yourpods, 
when  it  is  almoft  cold,  make  your  vinegar  twice 
hot  as  before,  and  pour  it  upon  them,  and  tie 
them  down  with  a  bladder. 


j$z    '       THE   EXPERIENCE^ 

'To  pickle  Elder  Shoots. 

GATHER  your  elder  fhoots  when  they  ar$ 
ihe  thicknefs  of  a  pipe  fhank,  pdttbefn  intd 
fait  and  water  all  night,  then  put  them  rntft 
ftone  jars  in  layers,  and  betwixt  every  layef 
ftrew  a  little  muftard  feed,  and  fcfaped  horfe- 
radilfh,  a  few  ffialots,  a  little  white  beet  root; 
and  cauliflower  pulled  in  fmall  pieces^  then  pour 
boiling  allf  gar  upon  it,  andfcald  it  three  times^ 
and  it  will  belike  piccalillo,  or  Indian  pickle; 
tie  a  leather  over  it,  and  keep  it  in  a  dry  place* 

'to pickle  Elder  Buds* 

GET  your  elder  buds  when  they  are  the  fize 
©f  hop  buds,  and  put  them  into  a  ftrong  fait 
and  water  for  nine  days,  and  ftir  them  two  or 
three  times  a  day,  then  put  them  into  a  brafs 
pan,  cover  them  with  vine  leaves,  and  pour  the 
water  on  them  that  they  came  out  of*  and  fet 
them  over  a  flow  fire  till  they  are  quite  green, 
then  make  a  pickle  for  them  of  allegar,  a  little 
mace,  a  few  fhalots,  and  fome  ginger  fliced, 
boil  them  two  or  three  minutes,  and  pour  it 
upon  your  buds ;  tie  them  down,  and  keep  them 
in  a  dry  place  for  ufe. 

Topici/eBEtr  Roots. 

TAKE  red  beet  roots  and  boil  them  till  they 
are  tender,  then  take  the  fkins  off,  and  cut  them 
in  flices,  and  gimp  them  in  the  (hape  of  wheels, 
flowers,  or  what  form  you  pleafe,  and  put  them 
into  a  jar,  then   take  as  much  vinegar  as  you 

think 


ENGLISH  HOUSE- KEEPER.      353 

think  will  cover  them,  and  boil  it  with  a  little 
mace,  a  race  of  ginger  fliced,  and  a  few  flices 
of  horfe-radifh,  pour  it  hot  upon  your  roots, 
and  tie  them  down. — They  are  a  very  pretty 
garni/h  for  made  diihes. 

To  pickle  Caulyflowers. 

TAKE  the  clofeft  and  whiteft  caulyflowers 
your  can  get,  and  pull  them  in  bunches,  and 
fpread  them  on  an  earthen  dim,  and  lay  fait  all 
over  them,  let  them  ftand  for  three  days  to 
bring  out  all  the  water,  then  put  them  in  earthen 
jars,  and  pour  boiling  fait  and  water  upon  them, 
and  let  them  ftand  all  night,  then  drain  them 
on  a  hair  fieve,  and  put  them  into  glafs  jars, 
and  fill  up  your  jars  with  diftilled  vinegar,  and 
tie  them  clofe  down  with  leather. 

Afecond  Way  to  pickle  Caulyflowers, 

PULL  your  caulyflowers  in  bunches  as  be- 
fore, and  give  them  juft  a  fcald  in  felt  and 
water,,  fpread  them  on  a  cloth,  and  fprinkle  a 
little  fait  over  them,  and  throw  another  cloth 
upon  them  till  they  are  drained,  then  lay  them 
on  fieves,  and  dry  them  in  the  fun  till  they  are 
quite  dry  like  fcraps  of  leather,  put  them  into 
jars  about  half  full,  and  pour  hot  vinegar  (with 
fpice  boiled  in  it  to  your  tafte)  upon  them ;  tie 
them  down  with  a  bladder,  and  a  leather  quite 
'  clofe. — N*  B.  White  cabbage  is  done  the  fame 
way. 

A  a  T® 


354  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  pickle  Red  Cabbage. 
GET  the  fineft  and  clofeft  red  cabbage  you 
can,  and  ,  cut  it  as  thin  as  poffible,  then  take 
fome  cold  ale  allegar,  and  put  to  it  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace,  a  few  white  pepper  corns,  and 
make  it  pretty  ftrong  with  fait,  put  your  cabbage 
into  the  allegar  as  you  cut  it ;  tie  it  clofe  down 
with  a  bladder,  and  a  paper  over  it,  and  it  will 
be  fit  for  ufe  in  a  day  or  two. 

To  pickle  Red  Cabbage  afecond  Way. 
CUT  the  cabbage  as  b&fore,  and  throw  fome 
fait  upon  it,  and  let  it  lie  two  or  three  days,  till 
it  grows  a  fine  purple,  then  drain  it  from  the 
fait,  and  put  it  into  a  pan  with  beer  allegar,  and 
fpice  to  your  liking,  and  give  it  a  fcaldj-  when 
it  is  cold,  put  it  into  your  jars,  and  tie  it  clofe  up. 

To  pickle  Grapes. 

GET  your  grapes  when  they  are  pretty  large, 
but  not  too  ripe,  then  put  a  layer  into  a  ftone 
jar,  then  a  layer  of  vine  leaves,  then  grapes  and 
vine  leaves  as  before,  till  your  jar  is  full  j  then 
take  two  quarts  of  water,  half  a  pound  of  bay 
fait,  the  iam®  of  common  fait,  boil  it  half  an 
hour,  fkim  it  well,  and  take  it  off  to  fettle, 
when  it  is  miik  warm,  pour  the  clean  liquor 
upon  the  grapes,  and  lay  a  good  deal  of  vine 
leaves  upon  the  top,  and  cover  it  clofe  up  with 
a  cloth,  and  fet  it  upon  the  hearth  for  two  days, 
then  take  your  grapes  out  of  the  jar,  and  lay 
them  upon  a  cloth  to  drain,  and  cover  them 
with  a  flannel  till  they  are  quite  dry ;    then  lay 

them 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     355 

them  in  flat  bottomed  ftoiie  jars,  in  layers,  and 
put  frefti  vine  leaves  betwixt  every  layer,  and  a 
large  handful  on  the  top  of  the  grapes,  then  boil 
a  quart  of  hard  water,  and  one  pound  of  loaf 
fugar,  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  fkim  it  well,  and 
put  to  it  three  blades  of  mace,  a  large  nutmeg 
iliced,  and  two  quarts  of  white  wine  vinegar, 
give  them  all  a  boil  together,  then  take  it  off, 
and  when  it  is  quite  cold,  pour  it  upon  your 
grapes,  and  cover  them  very  well  with  it;  put 
a  bladder  upon  the  top,  and  tie  a  leather  over  it, 
and  keep  them  in  a  dry  place  for  ufe. — N.  B.  You 
may  pickle  them  in  cold  aiftilled  vinegar. 

To  pickle  young  Artichokes. 

GET  your  artichokes  as  fcon  as  they  are 
Formed,  and  boil  them  in  a  ftrong  fait  and 
water  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  lay  them 
upon  a  hair  fieve  to  drain,  when  they  are  cold 
put  them  into  narrow  topped  jars,  then  take  as 
much  white  wine  vinegar  as  will  cover  your  ar- 
tichokes, boil  with  it  a  blade  or  two  of  mace, 
a  few  flices  of  ginger,  and  a  nutmeg  cut  thin, 
pour  it  on  hot  and  tie  them  down. 

To  pickle  Mushrooms. 

GATHER  the  fmalleft  mufhrooms  you  can 
get,  and  put  them  into  fpring  water,  then  rub 
them  with  a  piece  of  new  flannel,  dipped  in  fait, 
and  throw  them  into  cold  fpring  water  as  you 
do  them  to  keep  their  colour,  then  put  them 
into  a  well  tinned  faucepan,  and  throw  a  hand- 
ful of  fait  over  them,  cover  them  clofe,  and  fet 

A  a  2  them 


356        THE   EXPERIENCED 

them  over  the  fire  four  or  five  minutes,  or  till 
you  fee  they  are  thoroughly  hot,  and  the  liquor 
is  drawn  out  of  them,  then  lay  them  between 
two  clean  cloths  till  they  are  cold,  then  put 
them  into  glafs  bottles,  and  fill  them  up  with 
diftilled  vinegar,  and  put  a  blade  or  two  of  mace* 
and  a  tea-fpoonful  of  eating  oil  in  every  bot- 
tle, cork  them  clofe  up,  and  fet  them  in  a  cool 

place. ~N.  B.  If  you  have  not  any  diftilled 

vinegar,  you  may  ufe  white  wine  vinegar,  or 
ale  allegar  will  do,  but  it  muft  be  boiled  with 
a  little  mace,  fait,  and  a  few  flices  of  ginger, 
it  muft  be  cold  before  you  pour  it  on  your  mufh- 
rooms;  if  your  vinegar  or  allegar  be  too  fharp 
it  will  foften  your  muftiroorns,  neither  will  they 
keep  fo  long,  nor  be  fo  white. 

To  pickle  Mushrooms  brown. 
TAKE  a  quart  of  large  mufhroom  buttons* 
wafh  them  in  allegar  with  a  flannel,  take  three 
anchovies  and  chop  them  finally  a  few  blades  of 
mace,  a  little  pepper  and  ginger,  a  fpoonful  of 
fait,  and  three  cloves  of  fhalots,  put  them  into 
a  faucepan  with  as  much  allegar  as  will  half 
cover  them,  fet  them  on  the  fire,  and  let*  them 
ftew  till  they  fhrink  pretty  much  ,  when  cold 
pjit  them  in  fmall  bottles  with  the  allegar 
poured  upon  them,  cork  and  tie  them  up  clofe. 
N.  B.  This  pickle  will  make  a  great  addition 
in  brown  fauce. 

To  pickle  Onions, 
PEEL  the  fmalleft  onions  you  can  get,  and 
put  them  into  fait  and  water  for  nine  days,  and 
4  change 


ENGLISH'  HOUSE-KEEPER.      357 

change  the  water  every  day,  then  put  them  into 
jars,  and  pour  frefh  boiling  fait  and  water  over 
them,  let  them  ftand  clofe  covered  until  they 
are  cold ;  then  make  fome  more  fait  and  water, 
and  pour  it  boiling  hot  upon  them,  and  when. 
it  is  cold,  put  your  onions  into  a  hair  ileve  to 
drain,  then  put  them  into  wide  mouthed  bot- 
tles* and  fill  them  up  with  diftilled  vinegar,  and 
put  into  every  bottle  a  flice  or  two  of  ginger, 
one  blade  of  mace,  and  a  large  tea-fpoonful  of 
eating  oil;  it  will  keep  the  onions  white;  then 
cork  them  well  up. — N.  B.  If  you  like  the  taite 
of  a  bay  leaf,  put  one  or  two  into  every  bottle, 
and  as  much  bay  fait  as  will  lie  on  a  fix-pence, 

To  make  Indian  Pickle  <?r  Piccalillo. 

GET  a  white  cabbage,  one  caulyflower,  a 
few  fmall cucumbers,  radifh-pods  kidney-beans, 
and  a  little  beet  root,  or  any  other  thing  you 
commonly  pickle ;  then  put  them  on  a  hair 
fieve,  and  throw  a  large  handful  of  fait  over 
them,  and  fet  them  in  the  fun-fhine,  or  before 
the  fire,  for  three  days  to  dry ;  when  ail  the  water 
is  run  out  of  them,  put  them  into  a  large 
earthen  pot  in  layers,  and  betwixt  every  layer, 
put  a  handful  of  brown  muftard  feed,  then  take 
as  much  ale  allegar  as  you  think  will  cover  it, 
and  to  every  four  quarts  of  allegar,  put  an  ounce 
of  turmerick,  boil  them  together,  and  pour  it 
hot  upon  your  pickle,  and  let  it  ftand  twelve 
days  upon  the  hearth,  or  till  the  pickles  are  all 
of  a  bright  yellow  colour,  and  moil  of  the  al- 
legar fucked  up  ;  then  take  two  quarts  of  ftrong 

A  a  3  ale 


358  THE   EXPERIENCED 

ale  allegar,  one  ounce  of  mace,  the  fame  of 
white  pepper,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cloves, 
the  fame  of  long  pepper  and  nutmeg  ;  beat 
them  all  together,  and  boil  them  ten  minutes  in 
your  allegar,  then  pour  it  upon  your  pickles  with 
four  ounces  of  garlick  peeled  ;  tie  it  clofe  down, 
and  keep  it  for  ufe, — N,  B.  You  may  put  in 
frefh  pickles,  as  the  things  comes  in  feafon,  and 
keep  them  covered  with  vinegar,  &c* 

A  pickle  in  Imitation,  of  Indian  Bamboe. 

TAKE  the  young  fhoots  of  elder,  about  the 
beginning  or  middle  of  May  take  the  middle 
of  the  flalk,  the  top  is  not  worth  doing,  peel 
off  the  out-rind,  and  lay  them  in  a  ftrong  brine 
of  fait  and  beer  one  night,  dry  them  in  a 
cloth  iingle5  in  the  mean  time  make  a  pickle, 
of  half  goofeberry  vinegar,  and  half  ale  allegar; 
to  every  quart  of  pickle  put  one  ounce  of  long 
pepper,  one  ounce  of  fliced  ginger,  a  few  corns 
of  Jamaica  pepper,  a  little  mace,  boil  it,  and 
pour  it  hot  upon  the  fhoots,  and  flop  the  jar 
clofe  up,  and  fet  it  by  the  fire  twenty-four 
hours,  furring  it  very  often. 


CHAP.      XVII. 

Olfervations   on  keeping  Garden-Stijff    an$ 
Fruit. 

THE    art    of  keeping  garden-fluff  is    to 
keep  it  in  dry  places,  for  damp  will  not 
pniy    make  them  mould,  and  give  again,  but 

take 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      359 

take  off  the  flavour,  fo  it  will  likewife  fpoil  any 
kind  of  bottled  fruit,  and  fet  them  on  working; 
the  beft  caution  I  can  give,  is  to  keep  them  as 
dry  as  poflible,  but  not  warm,  and  when  you 
boil  any  dried  fluff  have  plenty  of  water,  and 
follow  ftricl:ly  the  directions  of  your  receipts. 

To  keep  Green  Peas. 

SHELL   any    quantity   of   green  peas,  and 
juft  give  them  a  boil  in  as  much  fpring  water 
as  will  cover  them,  then  put  them  in  a  fie-ve  to 
drain,  pound  the  pods  with  a  little  of  the  water 
that  the  peas  were  boiled  in,  and  ftrain  what 
juice  you  can  from  them,  and  boil  it  a  quarter 
of  an  hour,  with  a  little  fait,  and  as   much   of 
the   water  as  you  think  will  cover  the  peas  in 
the    bottles,   fill  your  bottles  with  peas,   and 
pour  in  your   water,  when   cold   put  rendered 
fuet  over,  and  tie  them  down  clofe  with  a  blad- 
der, and  leather  over  it,  and  keep  your  bottles- 
in  a  dry  place. 

To  keep  Green   Peas  another  Way. 

GATHER  your  peas  in  the  afternoon,  on  a 
dry  day;  fhell  them,  and  put  them  into  dry 
clean  bottles,  cork  them  clofe,  and  tie  them 
Qver  with  a  bladder  \  keep  thern  in  a  cool  dry 
place  as  before. 

To  keep  French  Beans. 

LET  your  beans  be  gathered  quite  dry,  and 
not  too  old,  lay  a  layer  of  fait  in  the  bottom  of 
m  earthen  jar,  then  a  layer  of  beans,  then  fait, 

A  a  4  then 


36o  THE    EXPERIENCED 

then  beans,  till  you  have  filled  you  jar  :  let  the 
fait  be  at  the  top,  tie  a  piece  of  leather  over  them, 
and  lay  a  flag  on  the  top,  and  fet  them  in  a  dry 
cellar  for  ufe. 

To  keep  French  Be  an  s  a fecond  Way. 

MAKE  a  ftrong  fait  and  water  that  will  bear 
an  egg,  and  when  it  boils  put  in  your  French 
beans  for  five  or  fix  minutes,  then  lay  them  on 
a  fieve,  and  put  to  your  fait  and  water  a  little 
bay  fa-It,  and  boil  it  ten  minutes,  tkim  it  well, 
and  pour  it  into  an  earthen  jar  to  cool  and  fettle, 
put  your  French  beans  into  narrow  topped-jars, 
and  pour  your  clean  liquor  over  them  ;  tie  them 
clofe  down,  that  no  air  can  get  in,  and  keep  them 
in  a  dry  place. — N.  B.  Steep  them  in  plenty  of 
fprin'g  water  the  night  before  you  ufe  them,  and 
boil  them  in  hard  water. 

To  keep  Mushrooms  to  eat  like frejh  ones. 

WASH  large  buttons  as  you  would  for  flew- 
ing,  lay  them  on  fieves,  with  the  ftalk  up- 
wards, throw  over  them  fome  fait  to  fetch  out 
the  water  ;  when  they  are  drained,  put  them  in 
a  pot,  and  fet  them  in  a  cool  oven  for  an  hour, 
then  take  them  carefully  out,  and  lay  them  to 
cool  and  drain;  boil  the  liquor  that  comes  out 
of  them  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  boil 
it  half  away  ;  put  your  mufhrooms  into  a  clean 
jar  well  dried,  and  when  the  liquor  is  cold, 
cover  your  mufhrooms  in  the  jar  with  it,  and 
pour  over  it  rendered  fuet ;  tie  a  bladder  over  it, 
let  them  in  a  dry  clofet,  and  they  will  keep  very 

well 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.       36x 

well  moft  of  the  winter.- — When  you  ufe  them* 
take  them  out  of  the  liquor,  pour  over  them 
boiling  milk,  and  let  them  ftand  an  hour,  then 
itew  them  in  the  milk  a  quarter  of  an  hour, 
thicken  them  with  flour,  and  a  large  quantity  of 
butter,  and  be  careful  you  do  not  oil  it,  then 
beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  a  little  cream, 
and  put  it  in,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  eggs 
are  in ;  lay  untoafted  fippets  round  the  infide  of 
the  difh,  and  ferve  them  up  ;  they  well  eat  near 
as  good  as  frefh  gathered  mufhrooms ;  if  they 
do  not  tafte  ftrong  enough,  put  in  a  little  of  the 
liquor:  this  is  a  valuable  liquor,  and  it  will  give 
all  made  difhes  a  flavour  like  frefh  mufhrooms. 

To  keep  Mushrooms  another  Way. 

SCRAPE  large  flaps,  peel  them,  take  out 
the  infide,  and  boil  them  in  their  own  liquor 
and  a  little  fait,  then  lay  them  in  tins,  and  fet 
them  in  a  cool  oven,  and  repeat  it  till  they  are 
dry ;  put  them  in  clean  jars,  tie  them  clofe  down, 
and  they  will  eat  very  good. 

To  dry  Artichoke  Bottoms. 

PLUCK  the  artichokes  from  the  ftalks  (juft 
before  they  come  to  their  full  growth)  it  will 
draw  out  all  the  firings  from  the  bottoms,  and 
boil  themfo  that  you  can  juft  pull  off  the  leaves, 
lay  them  on  tins,  and  fet  them  in  a  cool  oven, 
and  repeat  it  till  they  are  dry,  which  you  may 
know  by  holding  them  up  againft  the  light,  and 
if  you  can  fee  through    them,    they  are  dry 

enough ; 


-62  THE   EXPERIENCED 

enough ;  put  them  in  paper  bags,  and  hang 
them  in  a  dry  place. 

To  bottle  Damsons  to  eat  as  good  as  frefo  ones. 

GET  ycur  damfons  carefully  when  they  are 
juft  turned  colour,  and  put  them  into  wide- 
mouthed  bottles,  cork  them  up  loofely,  and  let 
them  (land  a  fortnight,  then  look  them  over, 
and  if  you  fee  any  of  them  mould  or  fpot,  take 
them  out  and  cork  the  reft  clofe  down  ;  fet  the 
bottles  in'fand,  and  they  will  keep  till  fpring, 
and  be  as  good  as  freih  ones, 

Another  Way  to  bottle  Damsons. 

TAKE  your  damfons  when  full  grown  and 
coloured,  but  not  foft,  have  them  gathered  in 
dry  Weather,  get  your  wide-mouth  bottles  clean 
warned,  and  very  dry  before  your  damfons  are 
gat,  have  them  fitted  with  corks  that  your  dam- 
fons may  be  done  as  foon  as  they  are  gathered, 
when  they  are  pricked  put  them  into  your 
bottles  as  foon  as  you  can;  when  the  bottle  is 
half  full  put  in  two  table  fpoonfuls  of  Lifbon 
fugar,  then  fill  the  bottles  up  with  damfons, 
have  the  corks  well  beat  in  and  cut  clofe,  then 
have  a  bladder  foaked  in  cold  water,  and  well 
wiped,  which  muft  be  tied  clofe  over  the  corks, 
have  the  boiler  or  copper  that  you  intend  to  do 
them  in  ready,  and  lay  a  little  draw  very  thin, 
at  the  bottom  of  your  copper,  to  keep  them 
from  breaking,  put  a  little  ftraw  between  each 
bottle,  you  may  lay  another  row  of  bottles 
3  over 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      363 

over  the  firft,  if  your  copper  is  deep  enough, 
but  mind  they  do  not  rub  againft  each  other, 
there  muft  be  a  full  inch   of  water    over  your 
bottles,  and    ftraw  ftrewed   thin   over  the  top, 
over  which  you  muft  get  the  cover  of  a  hamper, 
and  have  it  cut  to    fit   the' copper,  that   your 
bottles  may   not  rile  to  the  top  of  vour  water, 
there  muft  be  a  proper  weight  over  the  cover  of 
the  hamper,  to  keep  the  bottles  in  their  places; 
when  that  is  done,  you  muft  have  as  much  cold 
water  put  over  them  as  will   cover  them,  have 
your  fire  lighted,  and  ftand  by  them  till  you  fee 
them  have  one  boil,  then,  as  quick  as  you  can, 
have  the  fire  drawn  out,  and  water  thrown  ua- 
der  the  copper  to  cool  it,  as  too  much   boiling 
fpoils    the   fruit,  let    them  ftand    in  the  water 
three   hours    in   the  copper,    then   have  them 
taken  out  and  wiped  dry,   but   not    (hook,  let 
your  bottles  ftand  in  a  cool  and  very  dry  place, 
they  will   keep   two  years  ;   they  muft  not  be 
covered  with  any  clofe  cover  :   this    is    a  very 
good  way  to  do  goofeberries,  but  leave  out  the 
fugar. 

To  bottle  Gooseberries, 

PICK  green  walnut  goofeberries,  bottle  them* 
and  fill  the  bottles  with  fpring  water  up  to  the 
neck,  cork  them  loofely,  and  let  them  in  a  cop- 
per of  hot  water  till  they  are  hot  quite  through, 
then  take  them  out,  and  when  they  are  cold* 
cork  them  clofe,  and  tie  a  bladder  oyer,  and 
jet  them  in  a  dry  cool  place, 


364  THE  EXPERIENCED 

To  bottle  Gooseberries  a fecond  Way* 

PUT  one  ounce  of  roach  alum,  beat  fine, 
into  a  large  pan  of  boiling  hard  water,  pick 
your  goofeberries,  and  put  a  few  in  the  bottom 
cf  a  hair  fieve,  and  hold  them  in  the  boiling 
water  till  they  turn  white ;  then  take  out  the 
fieve,  and  fpread  the  goofeberries  betwixt  two 
clean  cloths,  put  more  goofeberries  in  your  fieve, 
2nd  repeat  it  till  you  have  done  all  your  berries, 
put  the  water  into  a  glazed  pot  till  next  day, 
then  put  your  goofeberries  into  wide-mouthed 
bottles,  and  pick  out  all  the  cracked  and  broken 
ones,  pour  your  water  clear  out  of  the  pot,  and 
fill  up  your  bottles  with  it  -,  then  put  in  the 
corks  loofely,  and  let  them  ftand  for  a  fortnight, 
and  if  they  rife  to  the  corks,  draw  them  out, 
and  let  them  ftand  for  two  or  three  days  un- 
corked, then  cork  them  clofe,  and  they  will 
keep  two  years* 

To  bottle  Cranberries. 

GET  your  cranberries  when  they  are  quite 
dry,  put  them  into  dry  clear  bottles,  cork  them 
up  clofe,  and  fet  them  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

To  bottle  Green  Currants. 

GATHER  your  currants  when  the  fun  is 
hot  upon  them,  ftrip  them  from  the  ilalks,  and 
put  them  intoglais  bottles,  and  cork  them  clofe, 
fet  them  over  head  in  dry  fand,  and  they  will 
keep  till  fpring. 


ENGLISH  HCTUSE-KEEPER.      365 

To  keep  Grapes. 

CUT  your  bunches  of  grapes,  with  a  joint 
of  the  vine  to  them,  hang  them  up  in  a  dry- 
room,  that  the  bunches  do  not  touch  one  ano- 
ther, and  the  air  pals  freely  betwixt  them,  or 
they  will  grow  mouldy  and  rot ;  they  wTill  keep 
till  the  latter  end  of  January,  or  longer. 

iV.  B.  The  Frontiniac  grape  is  the  belt. 


CHAP.     XVIII. 

Obfervations  on  Distilling. 

IF  your  frill  be  a  limbeck,  when  you  fet  it  on 
fill  the  top  with  cold  water,  and  make  a  lit- 
tle pafte  of  flour  and  water,  and  clofe  the  bot- 
tom of  your  ftill  well  with  it,  and  take  great 
care  that  your  fire  is  not  too  hot  to  make  it  boil 
over,  for  that  will  weaken  the  ftrength  of  your 
water  ;  you  muft  change  the  water  on  the  top  of 
your  ftill  often,  and  never  let  it  be  fcaldinghor, 
and  your  ftill  will  drop  gradually  off;  if  you 
ufe  a  hot  ftill,  when  you  put  on  the  top,  dip  a 
cloth  in  white  lead  and  oil,  and  lay  it  well  over 
the  edges  of  your  ftill,  and  a  coarfe  wet  cloth 
over  the  top  :  it  requires  a  little  fire  under  it, 
but  you  muft  take  care  that  you  keep  it  very 
clear;  when  your  cloth  is  dry,  dip  it  in  cold 
water  and  lay  it  on  again,  and  if  your  ftill  be 
very  hot,  wet  another  cloth,  and  lay  it  round 
the  very  top,  and  keep  it  of  a  moderate  heat, 

fo 


■Q 


366  THE   EXPERIENCED 

fo  that  your  water  is  cold  when  it  comes  off  the 
flill.  —  If  you  ufe  a  worm-flill,  keep  your  water 
in  the  tub  full  to  the  top,  and  change  the  water 
often,  to  prevent  it  from  growing  hot ;  obferve 
to  letall  fimple  waters  (land  two  or  three  days 
before  you  work  it,  to  take  off  the  fiery  tafte  of 
the  flill. 

To  tij/iill  Cavble  Water. 

TAKE  wormwood,  hore-hound,  feather-* 
few,  and  lavendar-cotton,  of  each  three  hand- 
fuls,  rue,  pepper-mint,  and  Seville  orange  peel* 
of  each  a  handful,  fteep  them  in  red  wine,  or 
the  bottoms  of  ftrong  beer,  all  night ;  then  diftill 
them  in  a  hot  flill  pretty  quick,  and  it  will  be 
a  fine  caudle  to  take  as  bitters. 

To  diftill  Milk  Water. 

TAKE  two  handfuls  of  fpear  or  pepper- 
mint, the  fame  of  balm,  one  handful  of  cardus, 
the  fame  of  wormwood,  and  one  of  angelico,  cut 
them  into  lengths  a  quarter  long,  and  fteep  them 
in  three  quarts  of  fkimmed  milk  twelve  hours, 
then  diftill  it  in  a  cold  flill,  with  a  flow  fire 
under  it;  keep  a  cloth  always  wet  over  the  top 
of  your  flill,  to  keep  the  liquor  from  boiling 
over,  the  next  day  bottle  it,  cork  it  well,  and 
keep  it  for  ufe. 

To  make  HeVhn  AT1CK.W ater  for  tie  Grave/. 

GATHER  your  thorn  flowers  in  May,  when 
they  are  in  full  bloom,  and  pick  them  from  the 

flem$ 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.  367 
flems  and  leaves,  and  to  every  half  peck  of 
flowers,  take  three  quarts  of  Lifbon  wine,  and 
put  into  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  nutmegs 
iliced,  and  let  them  fteep  in  it  all  night,  then 
put  it  into  your  dill  with  the  peeps,  and  keep 
a  moderate  even  fire  under  it,  for  if  you  let  it 
boil  over,  it  will  lofe  its  ftrength. 

To  difiill  Pepper-Mint  Water. 

GET  your  pepper-mint  when  it'is  full  grown* 
and  before  it  feeds,  cut  it  in  ihort  lengths,  fill 
your  ftill  with  it,  and  put  it  half  full  of  water, 
then  make  a  good  fire  under  it,  and  when  it  is 
nigh  boiling,  and  the  ftill  begins  to  drop,  if 
your  fire  be  too  hot,  draw  a  little  out  from 
under  it,  as  you  fee  it  requires,  to  keep  it  from 
boiling  over,  or  your  water  will  be  muddy,  the 
flower  your  ftill  drops,  the  water  will  be  the 
clearer  and  ftronger,  but  do  not  fpend  it  too 
far,  the  next  day  bottle  it,  and  let  it  (land  three 
or  four  days,  to  take  the  fire  off  the  ftill.  then 
cork  it  well,  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 

To  diftill  Elder-Flower   Water. 

GET  your  elder-flowers  when  they  are  in 
full  bloom,  fhake  the  blofToms  off,  and  to  every 
peck  of  flowers  put  one  quart  of  water,  and 
let  them  fteep  in  it  all  night ;  then  put  them  in 
a  cold  ftill,  and  take  care  that  your  water  comes 
cold  off  the  ftill,  and  it  will  be  very  clear,  and 
draw  it  no  longer  than  your  liquor  is  good,  then 
put  it  into  bottles,  and  cork  it  in  two  or  three 
days,  and  it  will  keep  a  year. 

to 


368  THE   EXPERIENCED 

To  diftill  Rose  Water. 

GATHER  your  red  rofes  when  they  are 
dry  and  full  blown,  pick  off  the  leaves,  and  to 
every  peck  put  one  quart  of  water,  then  put 
them  into  a  cold  ftill,  and  make  a  flow  fire  un- 
der it,  the  flower  you  diftill  it  the  better  it  is, 
then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  in  two  or  three  days 

time,  and  keep  it  for  ufe.- JV.  B.    You  may 

diftill  bean-flower  the  fame  way. 

To  diftill  Penny-Royal  Water. 

GET  your  penny-royal  when  it  is  full  grown, 
and  before  it  is  in  bloffom,  then  fill  your  cold 
ftill  with  it,  and  put  it  half  full  of  water,  make 
a  moderate  fire  under  it,  and  diftill  it  off  cold, 
fhenput  it  into  bottles,  and  cork  it  in  two  or 
three  days  time,  and  keep  it  for  ufe. 

To  diftill  Lavendar  Water. 

TO  every  twelve  pounds  of  lavendar-neps, 
put  one  quart  of  water,  put  them  into  a  cold 
ftill,  and  make  a  flow  fire  under  it,  and  diftill  it 
off  very  flow,  and  put  it  into  a  pot  till  you  have 
diftilled  all  your  water,  then  clean  your  ftill  well 
out,  and  put  your  lavendar  water  into  it,  and 
diftill  it  off  as  flow  as  before,  then  put  it  into 
bottles,  and  cork  it  well. 

To  diftill  Spirits  of  Wine. 

TAKE  the  bottoms  of  ftrong  beer,  and  any 
kind  of  wines,  put  them  into  a  hot  ftill  about 

three 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.     369 

three  parts  full,  then  make  a  very  flow  fire  un- 
der, and  if  you  do  not  take  great  care  to  keep 
it  moderate,  it  will  boil  over,  for  the  body  is  fo 
ftrong,  that  it  will  rife  to  the  top  of  the  ftill ; 
the  flower  you  diftill  it  the  ftronger  your  fpirit 
will  be,  put  it  into  an  earthen  pot  till  you  have 
done  diflilling,  then  clean  your  ftill  well  out, 
and  put  the  fpirit  into  it,  and  diftill  it  flow  as 
before,  and  make  it  as  ftrong  as  to  burn  in  your 
lamp,  then  bottle  it,  and  cork  it  well,  and  keep 
it  for  ufe. 


B  b  A  cor- 


(    370    ) 

A  CorreSi  LIST  of  every  Thing  in  Sea/on 
in  every  Month  of  the  YEAR* 


JANUARY. 


CARP 
Tench 
Perch 

Lampreys 
Eels 

Craw-fiih 
Cod 


Beef 
Mutton 

Pheafant 
Partridge 
Hares 
Rabbits 


FISH. 

Soles 

Flounders 

Plaice 

Turbot 

Thornback 

Skate 

Sturgeon 

MEAT. 

Veal 
Houfe-Lamb 


Smelts 

Whitings 

Lobfters 

Crabs 

Prawns 

Oyfters 


Pork 


} 


P  0  U  L  T  R  T,  &c. 


Game 


Woodcocks 


Cabbage 

Savoys 

Coleworts 

Sprouts 


Snipes 

Turkeys 

Capons 

R  O  O  T  S,  &c. 

Cardoons 
Beets 
Parfley 
Sorrel 


Pullets 
Fowls 
Chickens 
Tame  Pigeons 


Brocoli  purple    Chervil 

and  white       Celery 
Spinage  Endive 


Lettuces 

Creffes 

Muftard 

Rape 
Radifli 
Turnips 
Tarragon 


Mint 


ENGLISH   HOUSE 

Mint  Sage  ^ 

Cucumbers  in  Parfnips 

hot-houfes  Carrots 

Thyme  Turnips 

Savory  Potatoes 

Pot-Marjoram  Scorzonera 

Hyfop  Skirrets 


KEEPER.      37l 

Salfifie 

To  behadjhough 
not  infeafon, 

Jerufalem  Arti- 
chokes 

Afparagus 

Mufhrooms 


Apples 

Pears 

Nuts 


FRUIT. 

Almonds 
Services 


Medlars 
Grapes 


FEBRUARY. 


Cod 

Soles 

Sturgeons 

Plaice 

Flounders 

Turbot 

Thornback 

Beef 
Mutton 


F  I  S 

Skate 

Whitings 

Smelts 

Lobfters 

Crabs 

Oyfters 

Prawns 


H. 


Tench 
Perch 

Carp 
Eels 

Lampreys 
Craw-fifo 


MEAT. 
Veal  Pork 

Houfe-Lamb 

P  O  U  L  T  R  T,  &c. 


Turkeys 
Capons 
Pullets 
Fowls 


Chickens 
Pigeons 
Pheafants 
Partridges 


Woodcocks 
Snipes 
Hares    . 
Tame  Rabbits 


B  b  2 


ROOTS 


'372 


THE   EXPERIENCED 


. 

R  0  0  T  S, 

&c. 

Cabbage 

Muftard 

Afparagus 

Savoys 

Rape 

Kidney-Beans' 

Coleworts 

Radifhes 

Carrots 

Sprouts 

Turnips 

Turnips 

Brocoli,  purpl 

e  Tarragons 

Parfnips 

and  white 

Mint 

Potatoes 

Cardoons 

Burnet 

Onions 

Beets 

Tan  fey 

Leeks 

Parfley 

Thyme 

Shalots 

Chervil 

Savory 

Garlick 

Endive 

Marjoram 

Rocombole 

Sorrel 
Celery 

Alfo  may  be 
had 

Salfifie 
Skirfet 

Chardbeets 

Scorzonera 

Lettuces 

ForcedRadifhc 

*sjerufalem  Ar- 

Creffes 

Cucumbers 
F  R  U  I  T. 

tichokes 

Pears 

Apples 

Grapes 

MARC 

H. 

M  E  A  f. 

Beef 

Veal 

Pork 

Mutton 

Houfe-Lamb 

p  o  u  l  <r  r  r,  &c. 

Turkeys 

Fowls 

Pigeons 

Pullets 

Chickens 

Tame  Rabbits 

Capons 

Ducklings 
FISH. 

Carp 

Eels 

Soles 

Tench 

Mullets 

Wh  iting 

Turbot 


ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER. 

Turbot  Plaice  Crabs 

Thornback        Flounders  Craw-fifh 

Skate  Lobfters  Prawns 


373 


ROOTS, 

&c. 

Carrots 

Brocoli 

Rape 

Turnips 

Cardoons 

Radifhes 

Parfhips 

Beets 

Turnips  t 

Jerufalem  A 

.r-   Parfley 

Tarragon 

tichokes 

Fennel 

Mint 

Onions 

Celery 

Burnet 

Garlick 

Endive 

Thyme 

Shalots 

Tanfey 

Winter-Savory 

Coleworts 

Mufhrooms 

Pot-Marjoram 

Borecole 

Lettuces 

Hyfop 

Cabbages 

Chives 

Fennel 

Savoys 

CrelTes 

Cucumbers 

Spinage 

Muftard 

Kidney-Beans 

FRUIT. 

Pears 

Apples         Forced  Strawberries 

A    P    R    I 

L. 

MEAT. 

Beef 

Mutton 

Veal             Lamb 

FISH. 

Carp 

Salmon 

Smelts 

Chub 

Turbot 

Herrings 

Tench 

Soles 

Crabs 

Trout 

Skate 

Lobfters 

Craw-fifh 

Mullets 

Prawns 

B  b  3 

poulTrt, 

374 


THE  EXPERIENCED 


P  0  U  L  T  R  T9  &c. 

Pullets 

Ducklings          Rabbits 

Fowls 

Pigeons             Leverets 

Chickens 

R  0  0  T  S,  Sec. 

Coleworts 

Young  Onions  Lettuces 

Sprouts 

Celery                All  forts  of  fmall 

Brocoli 

Endive                    Sallad 

Spinage 

Sorrel                  Thyme 

Fennel 

Burnet               All  forts  of  Pot-? 

Parfley 

Tarragon                herbs 

Chervil 

Radiihes 

FRUIT. 

Apples 

Forced  Cher-   Apricots  foe 

Pears 

ries  and              Tarts 

M    A    Y. 

FISH. 

Carp 

Salmon               Lobfters 

Tench 

Soles                   Craw-fifh 

Eels 

Turbot               Crabs 

Trout 

Herrings            Prawns 

Chub 

Smelts 

MEAT. 

Beef 

Mutton             Vesil               Lamb 

P  0  U  L  T  R  r,  &c. 

Pullets 

Green  Geefe      Rabbits 

Fowls 

Ducklings          Leverets 

Chickens 

Turkey  Poults 

ROOTS, 


ENGLISH   HOUSE-K 

;eeper.     375 

ROOTS,  &c. 

Early  Potatoe 

s  Balm 

Savory 

Carrots 

Mint 

All  other  fweet 

Turnips 

Purflane 

Herbs 

Radiflies 

Fennel 

Peas 

Early  Cabbag* 

is  Lettuces 

Beans 

Cauliflowers 

Crefies 

Kidney  Beans 

Artichokes 

Muftard 

Afparagus 

Spinage 

Allfortsoffmall  Tragopogon 

Parfley 

Sallad  Herbs 

Cucumbers,  &c. 

Sorrel 

Thyme 
FRUIT. 

Pears 

And  Melons 

Goofeberries 

Apples 

With  Green 

And  Currants 

Strawberries 

Apricots 

for  Tarts 

Cherries 

june! 

MEAT. 

Beef 

Veal 

Buc  kVenifon 

Mutton 

Lamb 

POULTRT, 

&c. 

Fowls 

Ducklings 

Wheat-Ears 

Pullets 

Turkey  Poults  Leverets 

Chickens 

Plovers 

Rabbits 

Green  Geefe 

FISH. 

Trout 

Salmon 

Herrings 

Carp 

Soles 

Smelts 

Tench 

Turbot 

Lobfters 

Pike 

Mullets 

Craw-fifh 

Eels 

Mackarel 

Prawns 

B  b  4 

ROOTS, 

376 


THE   EXPERIENCED 
R  O  0  T  S, .  &c. 


Carrots 

Afparagus 

Rape 

Turnips 

Kidney-Beans 

Creffes 

Potatoes 

Artichokes 

All  other  fmall 

Parfnips 

Cucumbers 

Sallading 

Radifhes 

Lettuce 

Thyme 

Onions 

Spinage 

All  forts  of  Pot- 

Beans 

Parfley 

Herbs 

Peas 

Purflane 

FRUIT. 

Cherries         —Apricots  Ne&arines 

Strawberries      Apples  Grapes 

Goofeberries      Pears  Melons 

Currants       j    Some  Peaches    Pine  Apples 
Mafculine  — 


Beef 

Mutton 

P 

Pullets 
Fowls 
Chickens 
Pigeons 
Green  Geefe 

Cod 

Haddocks 
Mullets 
Mackarel 


JUL 

Y. 

MEAT. 

Veal 

Buck  Venifon 

Lamb 

0  U  L  T  R  r 

,     &c. 

Ducklings 

Pheafants 

Turkey  Poults 

Wheat-Ears 

Ducks 

Plovers 

Young   Par- 

Leverets 

tridges 

Rabbits 

FISH. 

Herrings 

Skate 

Soles 

Thornback 

Plaice 

Salmon 

Flounders 

Carp 

ENGLISH    HOUSE-KEEPER.      377 

Tench  Eels  Prawns 

Pike  Lobilers  Craw-flm 


ROOTS,    & 

:c. 

Carrots 

Cabbages 

All  forts  of  fmall 

Turnips 

Sprouts 

Sallad  Herbs 

Potatoes, 

Artichokes 

Mint 

Radifhes 

Celery 

Balm 

Onions 

Endive 

Thyme 

Garlick 

Finocha 

All  other  Pot- 

Rocombole 

Chervil 

Herbs 

Scorzonera 

Sorrel 

Peas 

Saififie 

Purflane 

Beans 

Mufhrooms 

Lettuce 

Kidney  Beans 

Caulifiowers 

C  relies 
FRUIT, 

• 

Pears 

Nectarines 

Strawberries 

Apples 

Plums 

Rafpberries 

Cherries 

Apricots 

Melons 

Peaches 

Goofeberries 

Pine  Apples 

A  U  G  U  S 

T. 

MEAT. 

Beef 

Veal 

Buck  Venifon 

Mutton 

Lamb 

POULTRY 

,    &c. 

Pullets 

Ducklings 

Pheafants 

Fov/ls 

Leverets 

Wild  Ducks 

Chickens 

Rabbits 

Wheat-Ears 

Green  Geefe 

Pigeons 

Plovers 

Turkey  Poults 

6 

F  I  S  H. 

37% 


THE   EXPERIENCED 


F  I  S  H. 

Cod 

Mullets 

Eels 

Haddock 

Mackarel 

Lobfters 

Flounders 

Herrings 

Craw-fijdi 

Plaice , 

Pike 

Prawns 

Skate 

Carp 

Oyflers 

Thornback 

ROOTS,  &c. 

Carrots     , 

Beans 

Pinocha 

Turnips 

Kidney-Beans 

Parfley 

Potatoes 

Mufhrooms 

Lettuce 

Radices 

Artichokes 

All  forts  of  fmall 

Onions 

Cabbages 

Sallads 

Garlick 

Cauliflowers 

Thyme 

Shalots 

Sprouts 

Savory 

Scorzonera 

Beets 

Marjoram 

S&lfifie 

Celery 

Allfortsoffweet 

Peas 

Endive 
FRUIT. 

Herbs 

Peaches 

Pears 

Strawberries 

Ne&arines 

Grapes 

Goofeberries 

Plums 

Figs 

Currants 

Cherries 

Filberts 

Melons 

Apples 

Mulberries 

Pine  Apples 

SEPTEMBER. 

MEAT. 

Beef 

Mutton 

Pork 

Veal 

Lamb 

Buck  Venifon 

P  0  U  L  T  R  r, 

&c- 

Geefe 

Pullets 

Chickens 

I  Lakies 

Fowls 

Ducks 

Teals 

ENGLISH   HOUSE-KEEPER.      379 

Teals 

Hares 

Pheafants 

Pigeons 

Rabbits 

Partridges 

Larks 

FISH. 

Cod 

Skate 

Tench 

Haddock 

Soles 

Pike 

Flounders 

Smelts 

Lobfters 

Plaice 

Salmon 

Oyfters 

Thornbacks 

Carp 

R  0  0  T  S,  < 

See. 

Carrots 

Kidney-Beans 

Finocha 

Turnips 

Mufhrooms 

Lettuce,  and  all 

Potatoes 

Artichokes 

forts  of  fmali 

Shalots 

Cabbages 

Sallads 

Onions 

Sprouts 

Chervil 

Leeks 

Cauliflowers 

Sorrel 

Garlick 

Cardoons 

Beets 

Scorzonera 

Endive 

Thyme,  and  all 

Salfifie 

Celery 

forts  of  foup 

Peas 

Parfley 

herbs. 

Beans 

F  R  U  I  r , 

» 

Peaches 

Filberts 

Currants 

Plums 

Hazel  Nuts 

Morello    Cher- 

Apples 

Medlars 

ries 

Pears 

Quinces 

Melons 

Grapes 

Lazaroles 

Pine  Apples 

Walnuts 

OCTOBER, 

MEAT. 

- 

Beef 

Lamb 

Pork 

Mutton 

Veal 

Doe  Venifon 

PO  U LTRT, 


j8o 


THE   EXPERIENCED 


p 

0  U  L  l   R  1 

r,   &c. 

Gesfe 

Rabbits 

Larks 

Turkies 

Wild  Ducks 

Dotterels 

Pigeons 

Teals 

Hares 

Pullets 

Widgeons 

Pheafants 

Fowls 

Woodcocks 

Partridges 

Chickens 

Snipes 
FISH. 

Dorees 

Gudgeons 

Salmon  Trout 

Holobert 

Pike 

Lobfters 

BeSrbet 

Carp 

Cockles 

Smelts 

Tench 

Mufcles 

Brills 

Perch 

Oy  fters 

ROOTS, 

&c. 

Cabbages 

Scorzonera 

Chardbeets 

Sprouts 

Leeks 

Corn  Sallad 

Cauliflowers 

Shalots 

Lettuce 

Artichokes 

Garlick 

All     forts     of 

Carrots 

Rocambole 

young  Sallad 

Parfnips 

Celery 

Thyme 

Turnips 

Endive 

Savory 

Potatoes 

Cardoons 

All  forts  of  Pot-. 

Skirrets 

Chervil 

herbs 

Saliifie 

Finocha 

FRUIT 

Peaches 

Quinces 

Filberts 

Crapes 

Black  and  white  Hazel  Nuts 

Figs 

Bullace 

Pears 

Medlars 

Walnuts 

Apples 

Services 

NOVEM. 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     3§t 
NOVEMBER. 


MEAT. 

Beef 

Veal 

Doe  Venifon    I 

Mutton 

HoufeLamb 

P  0  U  L  T'R  r. 

Geefe 

Wild  Ducks 

Dotterels 

Turkies 

Teals 

Hares 

Fowl 

Widgeons 

Rabbits 

Chickens 

Woodcocks 

Partridges 

Pullets 

Snipes 

Pheafants 

Pigeons 

Larks 
F  I  S  II. 

Gurnets 

Salmon  Trout 

Gudgeons 

Dorees 

Smelts 

Lobflers 

Holoberts 

Carp 

Oyfters 

Bear  bet 

Pike 

Cockles 

Salmon 

Tench 

Mufcles 

ROOTS,    &c. 

Carrots 

Jerufalem  Arti 

-Crefles 

Turnips 

chokes 

Endive 

Parfnips 

Cabbages 

Chervil 

Potatoes 

Cauliflowers 

Lettuces 

Skirret 

Savoys 

Creffes    . 

Salfifie 

Sprouts 

All     forts     of 

Scorzonera 

Cole  worts 

fmall   Sallad 

Onions 

Spin  age 

Herbs 

Leeks 

Chardbeets 

Thyme,    and 

Shalot 

Cardoons 

all  other  Pot- 

Pvocombolc 

Parfley 

Herbs 

F  R  U  IT. 

382 


The  experienced 


FRUIT 

» 

4  Pears 
'  Apples 

Cheftnuts 

Medlars 

Hazel-Nuts 

Services 

Bullace 

Walnuts 

Grapes 

DECEMEER, 

MEAT. 

Beef 

Veal 

Pork 

Mutton 

Houfe  Lamb 
PISH, 

Doe  Venifon 

Turbot 

Smelts 

Gudgeons 

Gurnets 

Cod 

Eels 

Sturgeon 

Codlings 

Cockles 

Dorees 

Soles 

Mufcles 

Holoberts 

Carp 

Oyfters 

Bearbet 

P  0  ULTRT, 

&c. 

Geefe 

Chickens 

Wild  Ducks 

Turkies 

Hares 

Teals 

Pullets 

Rabbits 

Widgeons 

Pigeons 

Woodcocks 

Dotterels 

Capons 

Snipes 

Partridges 

Fowls 

Larks 

Pheafants 

R  0  0  T  S,  &c\ 

Cabbages 

Potatoes 

Garlick 

Savoys 

Skirrets 

Rocombole 

Brocoli,  purple  Scorzonera 

Celery 

and  white       Salfifie 

Endive 

Carrots 

Leeks 

Beets 

Parfnips 

Onions 

Spinage 

Turnips 

Shalots 

Parfley 

Lettuces 

: 


EgSTOfc 


/ffiMWlV    ^,/K///c//  <>/  '<»'■ 


ENGLISH  HOUSE-KEEPER.     3% 
Lettuces  Cardoons  Thyme 

Creffes  Forced  Afpara-  All  forts  of  Pot- 

All  forts  of  fmall     gus  herbs 

Sallad 

FRUIT. 

Apples  Services  Hazel-nuts 

Pears  Cheftnuts  Grapes 

Medlars  Walnuts 


Directions  for  a  Grand  Table. 

JANUARY  being  a  month  when  entertain- 
ments   are   moft  ufed,  and   mod  wanted, 
from   that  motive   I  have  drawn  my  dinner  at 
that  feafon  of  the  year,  and  hope  it  will  be  of 
fervice  to  my  worthy  friends ;  not  that  I  have 
the  leaft  pretenfion  to  confine  any  Lady  to  fuch 
a  particular  number  of  dithes,  but  to  choofe  out 
of  them  what  number  they  pleafe ;   being  all  in 
feafon,  and  moft   of  them    to  be  got  without 
much  difficulty  ;  as  I  from  long  experience  can 
tell  what  a  troublefome  tafk  it  is  to  make  a  bill 
of  fare  to  be  in  propriety,  and  not  to  have  two 
things  of  the  fame  kind ;  and  being  delirous  of 
rendering  it  eafy  for  the  future,  have  made  it 
my  ftudy  to  fee  out  the  dinner  in  as  elegant  a 
manner  as  lies  in  my  power,  and  in  the  modern 
tafte  ;  but  finding  I  could  notexprefs  myfelf  to 
beunderftood  by  young  houfe-keepers,in  placing 
the  dimes  upon  the  table,  obliged  me  to  have 
two  copper-plates ;  as  I  am  very  unwilling  to 
leave    even  the  weakeft   capacity  in   the  dark, 
being   my  greateft   ftudy   to  render  my  whole 

work 


384  THE    EXPERIENCED 

work  both  plain  and  eafy.  As  to  French  cooks 
and  old  experienced  houfe-keepers,  they  have  no 
occafion  for  my  affiftance,  it  is  not  from  them 
I  look  for  any  applaufe.  I  have  not  engraved  a 
copper-plate  for  a  third  courfe,  or  a  cold  colla- 
tion, for  that  generally  confifts  of  things  extra- 
vagant ;  but  I  have  endeavoured  to  fet  out  a 
deffert  of  fweetmeats,  which  the  induftrious, 
houfe-keeper  may  lay  up  in  fummer  at  a  fmall 
cxpence,  and  when  added  to  what  little  fruit  is 
then  in  feafon,  will  make  a  pretty  appearance 
after  the  cloth  is  drawn,  and  be  entertaining  to 
the  company.  Before  you  draw  your  cloth,  have 
all  your  fweetmeats  and  fruit  difhed  up  in  china 
dirties  or  fruit  bafkets ;  and  as  many  dirties  as 
you  have  in  one  courfe,  fo  many  bafkets  or 
plates  your  deffert  muft  have ;  and  as  my  bill  of 
fare  is  twenty-five  in  each  courfe*  fo  muft  your 
deffert  be  of  the  fame  number,  and  fet  out  in 
the  fame  manner,  and  as  ice  is  very  often  plen- 
tiful at  that  time,  it  will  be  eafy  to  make  five 
different  ices  for  the  middle,  either  to  be  ferved 
upon  a  frame  or  without,  with  four  plates  of 
dried  fruit  round  them;  apricots,  green  gages* 
grapes,  and  pears — -the  four  outward  corners* 
piftacho  nuts,  prunelloes,  oranges,  and  olives  — 
the  four  fquares,  nonpareils,  pears,  walnuts, 
and  filberts— the  two  in  the  centre,  betwixt  the 
top  and  bottom,  chefnuts  and  Portugal  plums — 
for  fix  long  difhes,  pineapples,  French  plums, 
and  the  four  brandy  fruits,  which  are  peaches, 
nectarines,  apricots,  and  cherries. 


INDEX. 


INDEX. 


A. 


Page 


ACID  for  Punch  334 

Ale  to  mull  311 

Almonds  to  burn  242 
Almond  Iceing  for  Bride  1     c 

Cakes  J       ^ 

Amulet. to  make  291 

of  Afparagus  291 

Angelica  to  candy  246 

Apple- Sauce  59 

Apple  floating  Ifland  258 

Apple. Tarts  145 

Apricots  to  dry  244 

Apricot  Marmalade  225 

Pafte  338 

to  preferve  231 

Afparagus  to  boil  78 

Artichokes  to  boil  77 

Artichoke  Bottoms,  to 

drefs  with  eggs. 


Bottoms,  to  boil 
white 


Bottoms  to  dry 
Artichokes  to  pickle 

B. 


290 

289 

361 
355 


Bacon,  a  Gammon  to  roafl:  112 
to  fait  307 

Bances  French  164 

Barbadoes  Jumballs  274 

Beans  French  to  drefs  78 


Beans  French  to  keep 
a  fecond  way 
Windfor  to  drefs 
Beef  a  la-mode 

Brifket  a-la- royal 
to  collar  flat  Ribs 
toforcelnfideSurloin  113 
Infide  of  Surlointo  ?  II? 

drefs  j       3 

Bouille 
Fricando 
To  ham 
Heart  larded 
Heart  Mock  Hare 
Olives  to  make 
Porcupine  flatRibb 
Porcupine  toeatcold  299 
Round  to  force 
Rumptoftew 

a  fecond  way 
Steaks  to  broil 
Steaks  a  good  wav 

to  fry 
Steaks  to  drefs  a"l 

common  way    j 
TohangaSurloin  ?  „    . 

to  roafl:  !     j   3°^ 

Tea  3I2, 

to  pickle  308 

Bifcuits  common  to  make  276 

Drops 

Lemon  to  make 

Spaniih  to  .make 


Page 
359 
3"° 

117 


'} 


IJ3 
115 

7* 
118 

118 

117 

116 


3Q4 

70 


71 


Cc 


276 
276 

2  76 

Bifcuits 


/r 


INDEX. 


P;ige 

Bifcuits  Sponge  to  make     275 

Blancmange  195 

a  fecond  way       196 

a  third  W2y  196 

Brandy  Cherry  336 

Orange  337 

Rafpbcrry  336 

Brawn  Mock  302 

Bread  French  278 

to  make  white         279 

Brocoli  to  boil  77 

and  Eggs  289 

Browning  for  made  Dimes  81 

Bullace  Cheefe  236 

Butter  to  clarify  /r<9itf 

Fairy  258 


Cabbage  to  boil  76 

Cakes  Apricot  to.  make  242 

Bath  271 

Bride  264 

without  Butter  273 

Cream  272 

Currant  clear  239 

Currant  272 

Lemon  268 
Lemon  a  fecond  way  269 

Orange  268 

Good  Plum  266 

Little  Plum  268 

White  Plum  267 

Pruffian  267 

Queen  271 

Ratafia  269 

Ratafia  a  2d  way  269 

Rice  269 

Common  Seed  272 

Rich  Seed  267 

Shrewfbury  270 
Shrevvfbury  2d  way  270 


Cakes  Violet 
Culf's-Hcad  roaflcd 
Calf's-Head  Hafh 

to  drefs 

to  collar 

to  grill 

Mock-Turtle 

A  fecond  way 

Surprife 


Page 
24© 
281 

85 
86 
88 
88 
82 

8/ 
»3 


Calf's  Feet  to  fricaiTee  281 

Candy  Angelica  246 

Ginger  243 

Lemon, Orange-  1   „    , 

Peel            B  J  2*6 

Caps  black  to  make  206 

green  to  make  206 

Carp  to  flew  brown  29 

to  flew  white  26 

to  drefs  26 

Sauces  27 

Catchup  to  keep  feven  years339 

Mum  3?9 

Mushroom  339 

Walnut  338 

Walnut  a  2d  way  338 

Cauliflowers  to  boil  *  76 

Celery  to  fry  286 

to  ragoo  286 

to  flew  285 

Chardoons  to  fry  286 

to  flew  286 

Cheefe-Cakes,  Almond  258 

Bread  259 

Citron  259 

Common  260 

Cheefe-Cake  Curd  260 

Rice  259 

Bullace  to  make  236 

Lgg        ^  261 

Cheefe  Ramaquin          .  292 

Sloe  236 

Cheeie 


I     N    D     EX, 


Page 

Cheefe  to  flew  285 

to  ftewwithli^htl  _Q„ 

Wigs         w     /28s 

Cherry  Brandy  336 

to  dry  240 

to  dry  a  fecond  way  241 

Chicken-broth  to  make      312 

Chickens  to  boil  64 

to  force  126 

to  fricaflee  125 

to  roaft  65 

in  favoury  jelly    282 

Water  to  make  313 

Chickens  artificial  1 26 

and  Pullets  to  ftew  1 14 

Chocolate  to  make  316 

Chops  to  fait  306 

Cockles  to  flew  38 

Cod's  Head  and  Should-  1 

ers  to  drefs  J  20 

a  fecond  way  22 

Cod  fait  to  drefs  22 

Codlings  to  drefs  liken 

Salt-fifh  /       22 

Codfounds  to  drefs  23 

like  little  Turkies  23 

Collar  Beef  303 

Flat  Ribs  of  Beef   303 

Calf's  Head  300 

Eels  46 

Mackarel  43 

a  Breaft  of  Mutton  301 

a  Pjg  301 

Swine's  Face  302 

Breaft  of  Veal  ro"l 

eat  hot  J    9 

Breaft  of  Veal  to\     „ 

eat  cold  J300 

Collops  Scotch  brown  96 

French  way  97 

Cowflip  Mead  332 

Cracknells  274 

Cranberries  to  bottle  364 


Page 
Crawfifh  in  favory  Jelly      284 
in  Jelly  284. 

Cream  Cheefe  255 

burnt  253 

Chocolate  248 

Clotted  250 

Hanfhorn  250 

Ice  249 

King  William's      254 
Lemon  251 

Lemon  with  Peel    252 
Orange  252 

Piftachio  248 

Pompadore  253 

Rafpberry  251 

Ribband  250 

Snow  and  254. 

Spanifti  249 

SteeplewithWinel 

Sours  J    * 

Tea  253 

Crumpets  Orange  to  make  260 

a  fecond  way       260 

Tea  .  279 

Cucumbers  to  ftew  291 

with  Eggs  to  drefs  142 

Currant  clear  Cake  239 

Drops  245 

Green  to  bottle      364 

to  dry  in  Bunches  244 

Black  Rob  237 

Cuftard  Almond  256 

Beeft  257 

Common       $      257 

Lemon  256 

Orange  256 


Damfons  to  bottle  362 

to  dry  243 

Defert  Wand  to  make  199 

of  fpun  Sugar  190 

C  c  2  Diree- 


is  forfeiting; out  ?     n 

B  J  383 


I    N    D 

Pase 
Direct'ons  for  letting  out 

a  grand 
Diftill  Bean  FlowefWater  267 
To  diftill  Caudle  Water 
Diftill  Eiderr  :::;  367 

Hepbnalick  Wafer  -  5 
I  avender  Water  36S 
Milk  Water  .366 

Peppermint  Water  :  - 
Pennyroyal  Water  268 
Rofe  Wafer  368 

Spirits  of  Wine        368 
Ducks  a-la  b:      t  12S 

a-la  mo*  129 

to  boil  with  Onion  ^ 
fauce  3    ~* 


E    X, 


wild  hafh 

75 

-.    :  :  tft 

! 

:  to  ruarl 

59 

to  ftew 

127 

"  to  ftevv  with  gr 
Peas 

een  ? 

£ 123 

:  mint 

245 

1.  err.  on 

:  -■; 

:- 


-  ; 


Rafpberry 

Currant  245 

Duti  -??-s  t0  make  1-4 

mofYefi  184 

m  Ton  183 

Ra(pbe?rjr 

Sparrow  184 


Eels    to  boil 

37 

to  broil 

0  - 
8 

to  ceilar 

to  pi 

37 

to  re  ~:t. 

36 

w/.tb  Arti- 
cbo 

;j 

1     I 

- 

Ch      -  :    make 

Eggs  to  fricaflee 


Page 
290 

Sauce  to  rifcaK  64 

AndSpinagetodrefs  289 

to  poach  withToaiis  2S9 

Elder  Rob  236 


tf. 


Fi£h  r  ond  to  make  194 

to  caveacn  50 

to  preferve  50 

to  ftevv  a  good  way  32 

Flounders  to  boil}  and  all  }      Q 

Kinds  of  Flat  Fifh        i    3» 

to  flew  31 

Flummery  to  make  193 

Colouring  for  194 

Cribbage  CarJs  205 

Green  1: 

Eggs  and  Bacon  in  223 

Melon  in  197 

Oatmeal  204 
Solomon's  Tern-  ? 

pie  in                 1  ;:- 

Yellow  196 

Frrcemeat  for  Breaftof  }  n 

Veal  Porcupine           j  9 
for  Hare  Florentine  136 

Fowls  ala-braife  123 

to  boil  63 

to  drefs  cold  75 

to  force  124 
to  hafh 
large  to  road 

Fritters  Apple  to  make  161 

common  ditto  161 

clarv  ditto  161 

Plumb  with  R;cc?.  , 

$  l63 

Rafpberry  ditto 

Tani  162 

Water 

Fru;: 

Gi 


74 
64 


INDEX, 


Giblets  to  ftew 

Gifiger  to  candy 

Good  Green  to  make 

Gofers  to  ms ":* 

Goofe  to  boil 

to  marinate 
Stubble  to  roaft 
Green  to  roaft 

Goofeberries  to  bo::.? 
to  bottle  a  fecond 
way 

Goofeberry  pafte 

Grapes  to  keep 

Gravy  to  draw 
to  make 

Green  Gages  to  : 

Gruel  Barley  to  r 
Groat' 


R5 


a  to 


Water 


H, 


Ham 


57 

165 

57 

% 

3--4 

239 

I 

5 

241 

3i5 
3'4 

3'5 

316 


Haddocks  to  broil 

a  fecond  way 

to  boil 

to  roaft 

to  fait 

to  fmoke 
Hare  Florendine 

to  had 

to  jug 

to  roaft 

to  ftew 

K:  ige  Podge  137 

Har.  ay  of  Soup     140 

pf  Mutton  or  Lamb  140 

Neck  of  Mutton      141 
Herrings  to  bake  34 


35 

35 

£9 
112 

306 

307 

76 

135 

69 


I  \ 


33 


Pag? 

Herrings  to  boiF  33 

to  fry     *  33 

I. 

Jam    Apricots  to  make  212 

BlackCur'rant  214 

Green  Goofeberry  218 

Red  Raipbeirry  212 

frry  213 

Iceing  for  T:  144 

a  Ccc  )nd  way  1 44 

1  for  Bride  7  . 

C  ^  J  265 

Sugar  for  Br  :  265 

Jelly  Call's  Foot  to  make   1  . 1 
Si  :old  meat  192 

Colouring  for 

Craw-nfh  in  Savory  284 
Bird?  in  Savory  :    ] 

C  a  Savor}-  1:* 

Black  Currant  to  ? 
make  i 

White  Currant 
Fi{h  Pond  in 
Gilded  Fifh  in 
Fruit  in 

Hartfhorn  to  make 
a  fecond  way 
Henar.:        zkensiniOvS 
Hen's  Neft  195 

Floating  Ifland  in     2CO 
to  a  fecond  way  20 1 
f  and  in        2:  [ 

M     ~  an :  5:::5  in    203 
Pigeons  ...-.  . 
Smelts  in  Savory 
Trani parent  Pud- 
ding 

Moonfhine  2:2 

Or~  Bg^B  210 


211 
211 
214 

*94 
198 

197 

2tO 

192 


284 

*99 


C:  2 


-> 


INDEX. 


Page 


Lamb  Bits  to  drefs 

Head  and  Purte-1 
nance  to  drefs  / 
Leg  boiled,  and    1 
Loin  fryed        J 
a  Quarter  of,  forced 
Stones  fricaiTeed 
Lampreys  to  pot 

a  fecond  way 
to  roaft 
to  flew 
Larks  to  roaft 
Lemonade  to  make 

a  fecond  way 
Lemon  Drops 
Pickle 

Peel  tc»  candy 
Loaf  Drunken  to  make 
Oyflers 
Princes 
Royal 
Lebflers  to  boil 

to  roaft   - 
to  flew 
Lobfter  Patties  to  garnifh 
'    Fifh 

to  pot 


Pie 


282 
109 

ic8 

109 

no 
48 

48 

3° 

31 

67 

333 

333 

245 

8o 

246 

262 

40 

262 

262 

40 

40 

\* 

49 

28 


M 


}  285 


Macaroni,  with  Parme- 
fan  Cheefe  to  drefs 

IVIaccaroons 

Mac!. are!  to  boil 

Malt  L;quors  to  refine 

MarmaladeApricottomake225 
Orange  223 

Quince  224 


2/5 
32 

330 


Page 
224 

33* 
331 

332 

101 
152 

302 

82 


Marmalade  Tranfparent 

Mead  Cow  flip  to  make 

Sack 

Walnut 

Midcalf  to  drefs 

Mince  Pie  without  Meat 

Mock  Brawn  to  make 

Turtle 

Turtle  a  fecond  way  83 

Moonfhine  to  make  202 

Moor  Game  to  pot        52,  298 

Mufcles  to  ftew  38 

Mufhroom  Loaves  287 

to  keep  to  eat 

like  frefh 
Ditto  a  fecondway36l 
Powder  to  make    340 
to  ragoo 
to  ftew 
another  way 
to  pickle  brown 
to  fricaffee 
Mulled  Ale 

Wine 

Ditto  a  fecond  way  312 
Mutton  a  Bafque  to  make  107 
a  Breail  to  collar  301 
a  Brcaft  to  grill 
Broth  to  make 
to  hafh 
to  harrico 
Hodge  Podge 
Kebob'd  to  make 
Leg  to  force 

Leg    to     drefs, 
called  Oxford 
John 
Leg  to  fait 
Leg    fplit,    and 
Onion  Sauce 
Mutton  Leg  to  drefs,  to  "I  I07 
eat  like  Venifon  / 

Mutton 


]  360 


288 

287 
356 
H3 
31* 
3ii 


105 

3*3 

73 
140 

141 

105 

100 
108 

308 

105 


INDEX, 


Page 
Mutton  neck  to  harrico  102,141 
Neck    to    makel 
French  Steaks  >  103 
of  J 

Neck  to  eat  like/ 
^  Vcnifon  J     I02 

Shoulder  boiled,  | 

Celery  Sauce    j  x4» 
Shoulder  boiled,  1 
called  Hen  and  r  J04 
Chickens  J 

Shoulder  boiled,  "1 

Onion  Sauce  J  "*" 
Shoulder  furprifed  104 
Steaks  to  broil  71 


I. 


Obfervations  on  boiling 
and  roafting   Beef, 
Mutton,  Veal,  and 
Lamb 
oil  Cakes  264 

on  CreamSjCuf-  "1 

tards,  &c.       /     *' 
on    Decorations  \       Q 

for    a     Table  J    I5* 
on  Diftilling  365 

on  dreiling  Fifli  14 

on  drying  and  can-1 

•dying6  _  )  ™ 

on  made  difhes  79 

on  Pies  and  Palte  143 
onPoffetSjGruels&c^cS 
on  potting     and  ) 

collaring  J     3°3 

on    roafting  wild    £ 

and  tame  Fowls  J      4 
on  roafting   Pie,  1 

Hare,  &c.      ~  J     55 
On  pickling  342 

on  prefervincr  2CQ 

en  Puddings  167 


Page 

Obfervations  on  Wines,  ? 

Catchup,  &c.  5317 

on  Soups  I 

on  keeping  Gar- "1 

den  ituff  and  r  358 

Fruit  J 

Orange  Brandy  to  make     337 

Chips  to  candy        243 

Jelly  to  make  210 

Juice  334 

Marmalade  223 

Peel  to  candy  24b 

Qx  Pallates  to  fricando       1 19 

*  to  fricaflee  120 

to  ftew  119 

Oyfter  fauce  to  make  60 

Soup  13 

Oyfters  to  fry  39 

to  pickle  42 

to  fcollop  39 

to  ftew  &  all  Kinds 

of  Shell  Fife 

Ozyat  to  make 


2| 

332 


Panada  favoury 

fweet 
Pancakes  batter 

Clary 

Cream 

Fine 

Pink  coloured 

Tan  fey 

Wafer 
Parfnips  to  boil 
Partridge  to  hafh 

in  Panes 

to  ftew 


to  flew  a  fecond  \ 
way  3 


292 
316 
366 
166 
165 
166 
167 
166 
165 

79 

75 

*33 

134 

'34 


Cc4 


to  ro 


,41 


Paftc 


I    N    D 

Page 

Parte  for DefertBafkets  1  QQ 

■      for  Covers                   j  Iby 

aChinefeTemole  )  0 

orObelifk    *      J  Ib9 

Apricot  to  make  228 

Cold  for  Difh  Pies  146 
Red&whiteCarrants  239 

for  Cufbrds  14.0 

for  Goofe  Pie  145 

Goofeberry  239 

Crifp  for  Tarts  144 

Light  for  Tarts  J  44 

Rafpberry  238 

Pafty  a  Venifon  1*5^4 

Patties  common  to  make  160 

to  fry  159 
Lobfter  to  garnifh  1 

Fifn  )    4i 

Fine  160 

Fried  159 

Savory  158 

Sweet  160 

Peaches  to  dry  246 

Pears  to  flew  2c6 

Peas  Green  to  boil  78. 

to  keep  359 

to  keep  a  fecond  way  359 

toftew  142 

to  ftew  with  Lettuce  289 

Peppermint  Drops  345 

Perch  to  try  36 

in  Water  Soaky  37 

Pheafant  to  roaft  65 

Pickle  Indian  to  make  357 

In  Imitation  of  .  1  Q 

Bamboe            J  35* 

Artichokes  355 

Barberries  350 

Red  Beet  Root  362 

Red  Labbage  354 


E    X: 

Page 
Pickle  White  Caftbage       353 

353 

}   353 

46 

325 

342 

343 


Cauliflowers 
Cauliflowers,  a 

fecond  way 
Cockles 
Codlings 


Red  Cabbage,  a   1 
fecond  way       $ 


354 


Cucumbers 
Cucumber,  a  fe- 
cond way 
Cucumbers  in  Slices  344 

ElderBuds  352 

Elder  Shoots  352 

Grapes  354 

Kidney  Beans  346 

Mangoes  344 

Mackarel  44 

Mufhrooms  355 

Nafturtians  351 

Onions  336 

Oyfters  42 

Parfley  35l 

Pork  308 

Radifh  Buds  351 
Salmon,  Newcaf- 1 

tie  way                j  42 

Samphire  346 

Shrimps  51 

Smelts  or  Sparlings  45 

Walnuts  Black  347 
Ditto,  a  fecond  way  347 

Ditto  green  349 

Ditto  Olive  Colour  348 

Ditto  white  349 

Pigs  Chops  to  fait  302 

Pig  to  barbecue  m 
to  drefs  in  Imita-  7 

tion  of  Lamb    5  IIQ 

Feet  and  Ears  to   7  n 

ragoo                 J  28° 
Feet  and  Ears  to  *> 

foufe                   ]  305 

Petty  toes  to  drefs  56 

Pig 


INDEX. 


Page 
Pig  to  roaft  55 
Pigeons  artificial  156 
to  boil  67 
to  boil  with  Bacon  133 
to  boil  in  Rice  131 
to  broil  J31 
to  compote  129 
to  fricando  132 
to  fricaflee  133 
jn  a  Hole  130 
jugged  '  132 
to  roaft  67 
in  favoury  Jelly  283 
to  tranfmogrify  130 
Pike  to  boil,  with  a  Pud- 
ding in  the  Belly  25 
Pikelets  to  make  278 
Pippins  to  flew  whole  237 
Plaice  to  (lew  31 
Pork  to  barbecue  1 1 1 
Chine  to  fluff  H2 
to  pickle  398 
to  fait  308 
Steaks  to  broil  72 
PofTets  Ale  to  make         -31* 
Almond  to  make  310 
Brandy  309 
Lemon  309 
Orange  310 
Sack  309 
Wine  310 
Potatoes  to  fcollo'p  287 
Pot  Beef  to  293 
B^ef  to  eat          "1 

Venifon  like  J  294 
all    kinds    of     ") 

fmall   Birds    j  299 

Cbars  4.7 

Eels  47 
Ham  withChickens297 

Hare  297 

Lampreys  48 

Lobfters  48 


Pot  Moor  Game 
Ox  Cheek 
Pigeons 
Salmon 


Page 

$2,  29S 

294. 

298 

4* 


Ditto,  a  fecond  way  45 
Shrimps  50 

Smelts  or  Sparlings  45 


296 
297 
295 
296 
295 
231 
21S 

22S 


Tongues 
Woodcocks 
Veal 

Marble  Veal 
Venifon 
Prefer ve  Apricots 

Apricotsgreen 
Barberries  in      7 

Bunches  $ 

BarberriesforTarts  229 
Bullace  Cheefe  236 
Cherries  in  Brandy  336 
Morello  Cherries  228 
Codlings  to  keep  1 

all  the  year      j 
Cucumbers 
Currants  red  in  *) 

Bunches  J 

Currants  white  ? 

in  Bunches  f 
Black  CurrantKob  237 
Currants  for  Tarts  215 
Damfons  229 

Elder  Rob  236 

Grapes  in  Brandy  216 
Green  Gage  Plums  220 
GreenG©ofeberries2i8 
Red  Goofeberries  226 
Goofeberries  in  7 
Imitation  of  hops  J    l^ 


21  f 
215 
214 

214 


Lemons  carved 
Ditto  in  Jelly 
Magnum  Bonum 


Plums 
Oranges 
Di:ic»  carved 


Prefe 


233 

234 

230 
232 

23* 
rve 


INDEX, 


Page 

Preferve  Ditto  in  Jelly        232 

Ditto  with  Mar~l2?(- 

malade  3    ^ 

Peaches  231 

Golden  Pippins  217 
Kentim  Pippins  217 
Plums GreenGage  220 
Plums   Bonum  1 

Magnum  3      3 

Pine  Apples  225 

Quinces  whole  232. 
Ditto  in  Quarters  232 
Red  Rafpberries  228 
White  ditto  227 

Sloe  Cheefe  236 

Sprigs  Green  220 

Strawberries  whole  227 
Wine  Sours  230 

Walnuts  Black  221 
Ditto  Green  222 

Ditto  white  22$ 

Puddings  Almond       '        168 
Apple  169 

Apricot  174 

Bread  173 

Bread,  a  fecond  \ 

Way  I    *7^ 

Calf  s  Feet  172 

Little  Citron  177 

Green  Codling  178 
Boiled  Cuftard  169 
Goofeberry  182 

Hanover  184. 

Herb  182 

Hunting  168 

Lemon  170 

Lemon,  a  2d  way  170 
Lemon  a  third  way  170 
Marrow  1 79 

Marrow,  a  fecond  )  J 

way 


J 


Page 
Puddings   Marrow,  a    \ 

third  way  J  ,8a 
Boiled  Milk  ig2 

Nice  173 

Orange  I7I 

Orange,  a  fecond  "| 

Way  }J7* 

Plain  174. 

Quaking  180 

Quaking,  a  fe-  \      q 

cond  Way  J  IbI 
Rice  Common  ->9f* 
Ditto  boiled  172 

Ditto  ground  179 

Red  Sago  175 

Sago,  another  way  177 
Sippet  174 

Tanfey  with  Al-  1      , 

monds  3    ' 

Tanfey  baked  177 

Tanfey  boiled         176 
Tanfey  with      "I 

ground  Rice  J  ' ' 
Tranfparent  175 

Ditto, a  fecod  way   199 
Vermicelli  175 

White  in  Skins       i&jg  o 
Yam  i&T 

Yorklhire  under?    lQ. 

Meat  $    l81 

PufFs  Almond  278 

Chocolate  277 

Curd  261 

German  164 

Lemon  277 

Pies  Beef- (leak  150 

Bride  155 

Calf's-head  151 

Codling  153 

Chicken  a  favoury  151 


ff 


Pie; 


INDEX. 


Pies     Eel 

Egg  and  Bacon  ) 
to  eat  cold      j 
French 
Hare 

Herb  for  Lent 
Hottentot 
Lobfter 
Mince 
Olive 
Rook 
Salmon 

Thatched  Houfe 
Veal  favory 
Veal  fweet 
Venifon 

Yorkshire  Goofe 
Yorkfhire  Giblet 

Quince  Marmalade 

preferved  whole 

R. 

Babbits  to  boil 

Florendine 

FricafTee  brown 

FricaflTee  White 

to  roaft 

furprifed 
Jlafpberry  Brandy 

Cream 

Red  Jam 

White  Jam 

Pafte 

Drops 
Ray,  or  Scate  to  boil 
Ruffs  and  Rees  to  roaft 

S. 

Sago  to  make  with  Milk    315 
Salmon  to  boil  Crimp  23 


* 


Page 
155 
*5* 

146 

149 

'53 

154 
156 

*5* 
*57 

*57 

149 

150 
158 

157 

*54 
148 
156 

224 
232 

68 

137 
139 

139 
68 

336 

251 

212 
213 
238 
245 

3i 

b6 


Salmon  to  pot 

to  pot  a  fecond  \ 

way  J 

rolled 
Sauce  Apple  for  Goofe 

Bread  for  roaft  7 

Turkey  $ 

For  Cod's  Head  i 

and    houlders  J 
For  Cod's  He^d  a 


Page 
44 

AS 

24 
59 
62 


21 


22 


fecond  way 
Celery  103, 

tgg  for  Salt  Cod       2J^ 
Egg  for  roafted  fowls-6fc*-  ~&jS 


Lobfter 

for  Green  Goofe 

for  bubble  Goofe 


28 

59 
59 

28 


59 
57 


for  moft  Sorts  of  ? 
Fifti  J 

Onion 

Onion  for  boiled  \ 

Goofe  / 

Oyfter  for  boiled 

Turkey 
for  roafted  Pig 
for  roafted  Pi 5  a 

fecond  way 
for  Salmon 
Shrimp 
for  boiled  Turkey, 

a  fecond  way 
White  for  bifh 
White  for  Fowls 
White  for  boiled  7 
breaft  of  Veal  I 
Saufages  to  try 
Scate  or  Ray  to  boil 
Scotch  Collops  brown 

Collops  French  way  97 

Collops  white  cj6 

Collo,  s  to  warm       73 

Sheeps  rumps  and  Kidneys  106 

Sherbet 


[   60 
56 

\* 

24. 
2t 

6t 

27 
63 

9' 

290 

34 

96 


IN    D 

Page 

"Sherbet  to  make  335 

to  make  a  fecond  7 

way  3  ^-> 

Shrimps  to  ftew  41 

Shrub  Almond  337 

Currant  337 

another  way  336 

Smelts  or  Sparling*  to  fry     36 

Snipes  to  roail  66 

Snow  balls  to  make  236 

a  Difh  of  305 

SoIes*to  caveach  50 

to  fry  35 

to  marinate  35 

Solomongiindy  to  make      280 

a  fecond  way  281 

Soup  Almond  to  make  6 

a-Ia-Reine  7 

Common  Peas  10 

Oyfter  1 3 

Craw-iiiTi  13 

Gravy  with  ye!-   7 

low  Peas  J 

Green  Peas  9 

Green     Peas       7 

without  MeatS     * 
White  Peas  1 1 

Hare  3 

Onion  8 

Brown  Onion  9 

White  Onion  8 

Ox  Cheek  5 

Partridge  14 

Peas  for  Lent  10 

Portable   for  TraO 
vellers  J 

Kich  Vermicelli         4 
Tranfparent  3 

White  12  and  13 

Spinage  to  (levy  77 

Sprats  to  bake  34 


E    X. 

Page 

Stew  Cheefe with  light? 

wigs  i   2b5 

Carp  29 

Ducks  127 

Ducks  and  Green  7  ToQ 

Peas  5I2S 

Hare  135 

Oyfters  &  all  forts  7    0 

of  Shell  Fifh       53« 
Partridge  134. 

Ditto  a  fecond  way  134 
Pears  206 

Peas  142 

Peas  with  Lettuces  288 
Rump  of  Beef        115 


Tench 


29 


Turkey  brown  121 

Ditto  with  Ce-  7 

lery  Sauce       5  I2° 

Strawberry  Jam  to  make  213 

to  preferve  whole  227 


Stum  to  make 

Stuffing  for  a  marinate  7 


329 

^  Goofe  S    I2r 

Sturgeon  to  drefs  -          30 

to  pickle  41 

Sugartoboil  CandyHeight  247 

Sugar  to  fpin  Gold  Colour  189 

Silver  Colour  I         188 

Spun  Sugar  a  Defiert  of      190 

Sweetbreads  a-la  daub  98 

to  fricafiee  brown       99 

to  fricafiee  white      99 

forced  98 

to  ragoo  99 

Syllabubs  Lemon  to  make  207 

Lemon  a  fecond  7        ' 

way  I   2o8 

Solid  207 

under  the  Cow       208 

Whip  207 

Teale 


INDEX, 


Page 


Teale  to  roaft  66 

Tench  to  ftew  brown  29 

to  (lew  307 

Toaft  fried  to  make  263 

Tongue  to  boil '  69 

to  fait  307 

Trifle  to  make  255 

Tripe  foufed  305 

Trout  to  fry  36 

Turbot  to  boil  25 

Turkey    boiled,    Oyfter  7  , 

Sauce  I   , 

a-la-daub,  hot  122 

cold  122 

to  hafh  74 

to  roaft  62 

foufed  304 

ftewed   and  Ce-7 

lery  Sauce      S 

ftewed  brown  121 

Turtle  to  drefs  100  lb.  7    „ 

Weight  i1^ 

to  drefs  a  fecond  way  19 

artificial  to  make  84 

Forcemeat  for  ditto  85 

Mock  to  drefs  82 

a  fecond  way  8^ 

V 

Veal  a  breaft  to  boil  91 

a  Breaft  to  collar  90 
Ditto  to  porcupine  89 
Ditto  to  ragoo  90 

a  Fillet  bombarded  93 
to  ragoo  a  Fillett  -  100 
to  (lew  a  Fillet  100 
to  fricando  94 

to  ham  73 

to  difo;uife  a  Lep-  101 
to  mince  73 

to  a-la  royal   a   Neck 
•f  92 


Veal  Neck  of  Cutlets 
Olives 


Page 
os 

94 
Ditto  a  fecond  way  35 

Venifon  Pafty  194 

to  hafh  72 

•    -       Haunch  roafted r*       70 

Vinegar  Elder  Flower  340 
Goofe  berry  3-4.1 

Sugar  341 

Tarragon  340 

Violet  Cakes  240 

W 

Wafers  to  make 

Wafer  Pancakes 

WateY  Imperial 
Barley 

Web  Silver  to  fpin 
Gold  to  fpin 

Whet  before  Dinner 

Whey  Cream  of  Tartar 
Scurvy  Grafs 
Wine 

Whitings  to  broil 

a  fecond  way 

Wigs  light  to  make 

Wine  Balm 

Blackberry 
Birch 

Birch  a  fecond  way  325 
Clary  327 

Cowflip  325 

Ditto  a  fecond  way  326 
Red  currant  323 

Ditto  a  fecond  wa§r  323 
Elder-Flower  326 

Elder  Xailin  319 

Ginger  320 

Pearl  Goofeberry     721 
Goofeberry,  a  fe-  >  ~ 
cond  way  )  3 


3H 
187 

188 

*39 
314 
314 
313 

<*>  e* 
^> 

35 

274 

3*7 
322 

3H 


11 


Wine 


Index. 


Wine  Lemon  to  drink 
like  Citron  Water 
a  fecond  way 
Orange 
a  fecond  way 
a  third  way 


Page 
}   3*7 

3I2 
3i8 

3*9 


Acid  Raifin  to  cure  327 


Page 

Wine  Smyrna  Raifm         319 

Raifin,  another  way  320 

Rafpberry  322 

Sycamore  324 

Walnut  325 

Woodcock  to  hafh  75 

Ditto  to  roaft.  6§ 


F    I    N    I    S. 


The  following  ufeful  and  entertaining  BOOKS 
are  publijhedby  R.  Baldwin,  No.  47,  Pater- 
Nofter-Row. 


THE  History  of  John  Juniper,  Efq.  alias  Juniper. 
Jack.  In  three  Vols.  i2mo.  Price  9s.  fewed.  Publifh- 
ed  by  the  Editor  of  the  Adventures  of  a  Guinea.  Containing 
the  Birth,  Parentage,  and  Education,  Life,  Adventures,  and 
Character,  ofthatmoft  Wonderful  and  Surprifing  Gentleman. 

2.  The  Adventures  of  Gil  Blas  of  Santillane.  A  new 
Translation,  by  the  Author  of  Roderick  Random.  Neatly 
printed  in  Four  Vols.  i2mo.and  adorned  with  thirty-three  beau- 
tiful Copper -plates.  Price  12s.  bound,  the  Fifth  Edition 
corrected. 

3.  The  Adventures  of  Telemachus,  the  fon  of  Ulyffes, 
Written  by  the  Archbifhop  of  Cambray.  To  which  are  added 
the  Adventures  of  Ariftonous.  Done  into  Englifh  by  Mr. 
Litterbury  and  Mr.  Bowyer.  The  Nineteenth  Edition,  adorn- 
ed with  a  neat  Set  of  Cuts  illuftrative  of  the  Work,  and  a 
Head  of  the  Author.     In  2  Vols.  Price  6s. 

4.  The  Adventures  of  Roderick  Random.  By  T.  Smol- 
let,  M.  D.  2  Vols.  1 21110.     Price  6s. 

5.  The  Adventures  of  Peregrine  Pickle;  in  which 
are  included  Memoirs  of  a  Lady  of  Quality.  4  Vols.  i2mo. 
Price  1 2s.     By  the  fame. 

6.  The  Rambler,  By  Dr.  S.  Jchnfon.  4  Vols.  i2mo. 
Sth  Edition.     Price  12s. 

8.  1  he  Adventurer.  By  John  Hawkfworth,  LL.  D. 
Jofeph  Warren,  A.  M.  and  others.  In  4  Vols.  i2mo.  Price 
bound  12s.   A  new  Edition. 

7.  The  Life  and  ftrange  furprifmg  Adventures  of  Rosin- 
son  Crusoe,  of  York,  Mariner,  who  lived  eight  and  twenty 
Years  all  alone,  in  an  uninhabited  Ifland  on  the  Coaft  of 
America,  near  the  mouth  of  the  great  River  Oroonoque,  having 
been  caft  on  Shore  by  Shipwreck,  wherein  all  the  Men  perifhed 
but  himfelf ;  with  an  Account  how  he  was  at  laft  as  ftran^ely 
delivered  by  Pirates.  Written  by  himfelf.  The  fourteenth 
Edition,  2  Vols.  i2mo.     Price  6s.  adorned  with  Cuts. 

9.  The  Ladies  Library  :  Containing  the  Sentiments  of 
Chaftity,  Modefty,  Meeknefs,  Charity,  "Envy,  Detraaion, 
Pride,  Drefs,  Recreation,  Religion,  2eal,  Sec.  with  general 
Rules  for  a  Lady's  Conduct  in  every  circumilance  of  Life, 

whether 


BOOKS  printed  R.  Baldwin*,  OV.   • 

whether  as  a  Daughter,  Wife,  Mother,  Widow,  or  Mmrefsj 
of  a  Family,  3  Vols.  iamo.  feventh  Edition.  Price  gs.  bound. 

10.  The  fATHS  of  Virtue  delineated  :  or,  The  Hiftory 
1st  miniature  of  the  celebrated  Pamela,  Clarissa  Harlowe 
2nd  Sir  Charles  Grandison,  in  the  Compafs  of  a  Pocket 
Volume,   neatly  printed  on  fine  Paper. 

Ci  Great  Bleffings  ever  wait  on  virtuous  Deeds, 
"  And,  though  a  late,  a  fure  Reward  fucceeds." 

Being  a  very  proper  Pxefent  for  Young  Ladies  and  Gentlemen. 

The  fecond  Edition.     Price  2s.  6d.  neatly  bound. 

11.  Pamela  -y  or  Virtue  rewarded.  In  aperies  of  Familiar 
Letters,  from  a  beautiful  young  Damfel  to  her  Parents.  4  Vols. 
5th  Edition.     Price  12s. 

12.  Clarissa  j  or,  The  Hiftory  of  a  young  Lady  ;  com- 
prehending the  moft  important  Concerns  of  Private  Life,  in 
$  Vols.  i2mo.     Price  il.  4s. 

13.  The  Hiftory  of  Sir  Charles  Grandison;  in  a  Series 
of  Letters,  in  7  Vols.  nmo.  Price  il    is. 

14.  Meditations  and  Contemplations.  Containing, 
Vol  I.  Meditations  among;  the  Tombs — Reflections  on  a 
Flower  Garden  — ^.nd,  a  Defcant  on  Creation.  Vol.  ]I. 
Contemplations  on  the  Night — Contemplations  on  the  (tarry 
Heavens.  —  And,  A  winter  Piece.  By  James  Hervey,  A.  M. 
Late  Rector  of  Welion  Flavell.  in  Northamptonshire.  In  two 
Vols,  fmall  Octavo,  neatly  printed  from  a  Copy  corrected  by  the 

.Author  a  fhort   I  ime  belore  his   Deceafe,   and   adorned  with 
two  Frontifpieces  engraved  by  Grignion.     The  1 8th  Edition, 
♦rice  6s. 

gQf-  The  fame  in  one  Vol.  i2mo.  Price  3s. 

15.  Religious  Courtship,  be;ng  hiftorical  Difcourfes  on 
the  Neceffity  of  marrying  religious  Hufbsnds  and  Wive3  only. 
As  alio,  Of  Hufoands  and  Wives  being  of  the/a/;^  Opinions  in 

I  Religion  with  one  another  ;  with  an  Appendix  on  the  Neccitity 
I  of  taking  none  but  religious   Servants,  and  a  Propofal  for  the 
•better  managing  Servants,  \  uh  Edit.  i2mo.    Price  3s. 

16.  A  Familiar  Explalanation  of  the  Law  of  Wills 
and  Codicils,  and  of  the  Law  of  Executors   and  Adminiftra- 

Alfo  the  Rules  by  which  Eitates  in  general  defcend, 
■with  the  DiuVihution  of  perfonal  Property,  when  no  Will  is 
jjn.ude.  To  which  is  added,  Plain  Inductions  for  every  Per- 
■fen  to  make  his  own  Will,  with  the  nccefiary  Forms  for  that 
■-'urpoie  \  and  the  Expence  of  obtaining  Probates,  and  Letters 
o:  A«;miniitiation.  by  T,  E.  Tonilins  of  the  Inner  Tempk, 
larrifter  at  Law.     2d  Edit,  corrected,   Price  2s,  6d. 


0 


t 


U        t     ^1    ,T\  BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

<»»*      111  mil  mi  ihi  mi  inn  mi  mi  m  inn  n  im  mill  m  mil 

3  9999  05494  680  9 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket 


