Google 


This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world’s books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 


Usage guidelines 


Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 


+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 


+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 


+ Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 


+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 


About Google Book Search 


Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 
ai[http: //books . google. com/| 


a 


Are. Kboh 


ese 


<P 


ie ’ 


*. 


oe aa ° 


a S 


—__— eee Ee  —V 


o a 
‘The Exrer1rencepd | 
Englifh Houfe-keeper, 
For the Ufe and Eafe of 
Ladies, Houfe-keepets, Cooks, &c. 
Wrote purely from PRACTICE, 


And dedicated to the 
Hon. Lady ExvizaserH WarsurTon, 


Whom the Author lately ferved as Houfe-kceper. 


Confifling of near 800 Original Receipts, moft of which never 
appeared io Print. . 


Parr First, Lemon Pickle, Browning for all Sorts of Made 
Difhes, Soups, Fith, plain Meat, Game, Made Difhes both hot 
and cold, Pyes, Puddings, &c, | 


Parr Seconp, All Kind o®Confeétionary, particularly the 
Gold and Silver Web for covering of Sweetmeats, and a Defert 
of Spun Sugar, with Direétions to fet out a Table in the moft 
elegant Manner and in the modern Tafte, Floating Iflands, Fith 
Ponds, Tranfparent Piiddings, Trifles, Whips, &e. 


Part Tuirp, Pickling, Potting, and Collaring, Wines, Vi- 
negars, Catchups, Diftilling, with two moft valuable Reccipts, 
one for refining Malt Liquors, the other for curing Acid Wines, 
and 2 correct Lift of every Thing in Seafon in every Month of 
the Year. 


By ELIZABETH RAFFALD, 
M A N € H E 8 T E R: 


Printed by 7. Harrep, for the Author, and fold by Medirs. Fletcher 
and Aaderfon, in St. Paul's Church-ydrd, London; and by 
Eliz. Rafald, Confectioner, near the Exchange, Manchefter, 1769. 


The Book to be figned by the Author’s own |Hand-writing, and ° 
entered at Stationers Hall. 


t 
- ole 
ae oe 
\ . 


» 


__ _ 
lec. TF87, oF 
vi 7 ° . - oT : , .. 
® . > ne 4 2 "13 ~ 4 
; WARVARD COLLEGE LIBRARY ~ ~~ 
ss BEQUEST OF 
‘RNS. CHENTER NW. GREERQUGH . 


SEPTEMBER 20, 1926 


a ~ .* ° * a , e ° ‘ 
4 - so ~~ . - a a) 
a r 
4% 
a 
e 
Lf 
. 6 . i an . y 
é oo 
ee 
ss ' . 


| 
| 
} 


L 


To the HonouraBLe 
Lady ELIZABETH WARBURTON. 


HERMIT me honoured Madam to lay before 
you, a Work, for which 1 am ambitious 
of obtaining your Ladyfhip’s Approbation, ‘as 
much as toobligea.great Number of my Friends, 
who are. well acquainted with the Pra¢tice I 
have had in the det of Cookery, ever fince I 
left your Ladyfhip’s Family, and have often 
follicited mec to publifh for the Inftruction of 
their Houfe-keepers. 

As I flatter myfelf I had the Happinefs to 
giving Satisfaction during my Service, Madam, 
in your Family, it would be a ftill greater En- 
couragement, fhould my Endéavours for the 
Service of my Sex, be honoured with the fa- 
vourable Opinion of fo good a Judge of Pro- 
priety and Elegance as. your Ladythip. 

I am not vain enough to propofe adding any 
Thing to the Experienced Houfe-keeper, but 
hope thefe Receipts (wrote purely from Prac- 
tice) may be of ufe to young Perfons who are 
willing to improve themfelves 
‘I rely on your Ladyfhip’s Candour, and 
whatever Ladies favour this Book with reading 

A2. it, 


BE DEDICATION, 


it, to excufé the plainneis’ of ‘the Stylé,-as in 
Compliance with the defire.of my a | 
have ftudied to exprefs myfelf fo as to be un- 
derftood by the meaneft Capacity, and think 


my/elf happy i in being allowed the Honour of 
feribing © 


MADAM, a 
Your Ladythip's a . 
: _ Moft dutiful, , 
. "Mott obedieniy, , 
bie And molt humble Serant : 
- “ELIZABETH RAFFALD, 


” 


HEN I refle& upon the Number of 
Books already in print upon, this Sub- 
ject, ahd with what Contempt they are read, 
I cannot but be apprehentive that this may 
meet the fame Fate, from fome who will cen- 
fure it before they either fee itor try its Value. 
“Fherefore, the only Favour I have to beg of 
the Public, és not ta cenfure my Work e 
they have made trial of fome one Receipt, 
which I am perfuaded, if carefully followed, 
will gnfsver their Expettations. - 
As [ can faithfully affure my Friends, that 
they are truly wrote from my own Experi- 


TO THE 


ence, and not borrowed from any other Au- 


thor, nor glofled ayer with hard Names or 
Words of ‘high Stile, but wrose in my own 


plain Language, and every Sheet carefully pe- 


rufed as it. came from the Prefs, having an 


Opportunity of having it printed by a Neigh 


| 


bour, whom I can rely on doing it the ftricteft 
Juftice, without the leaft Alteration. | 

_ «The whale Work being now compleated to 
my Withes, I think it my duty to render my 
moft fincere and grateful Thanks to my moft | 


. goble and worthy Friends, who have already 
fhewn their go 


-_ 


Opinion of my Endeayours 
} to 


| [ ui | 
to. ferve my.5ex, by raifing me fo large a Sub- 
fcription, which far excells my Expectations. 

I have not only been honoured by having above 
eight hundred of -their Names inferred in my 
Subfeription, but alfo have had all their Inte- 
reft in this’ Jaborious Undertakiig, which I 
have at laft arrived to’ the “Happirfefs of com- 

leating, though at the expence of my Health, 

y being tod ftudious; and giving too clofe ah 
Application, ses Hg 

. The only abxious wifh I have left, is, that 
my worthy Friends may find it ufeful in their 
Families, and-be an Inftructor to the young 
and ignorant, ‘as it has been my chiefeft Care 
to. write in as plain a’Style aa poffible, fo as to 
be underftogd by the weakeft Capacity. 
.. Lam not afraid of being called extravagant, 
if my Reader. doeg not think I have efred on 
the frugal Hand, a ° 
*. I have made it my Study.to pleafe both the 
Eye and the Palate, without ufing pernicious 
Things for the fake of Beauty. 

. And though I have given fome of my Difhes 
French Names, as they are only known by 
thofe Names, yet they will not be found very 
Expenfive, nor add Compofitions but as plaiti 
es the Nature of the Difh will admit of. 

. The Receipts for the CorifeCtionary, are. fuch 
as I daily fell in my own Shop, which any Lady 
may examine at pleafure, as I ftill continue my 
beft Endeavours to givt Satisfaction to all who 
are pleafed to favour me with their Cuftom. 

It may be neceflary to inform my Readers, ~ 
that I have fpent fifteen Years in great an 
worthy 


| iii J 

worthy Families, in the Capacity of a Houfe- 
keeper, and had the Opportunity of travelling 
with them; but finding the common Servants 
generally fo ignorant in drefling Meat, and a 
good Cook fo hard to be met with, put me up- 
on ftudying the Art of Cookery more than per- 
haps I otherwife fhould have done; always en- 
deavouring to join Oeconomy with Neatnefs and 
Elegance, being fenfible what valuable Quali- 
fications thefe are in a Houfe-keeper or Cook;- 

for of what ufe is their Skill, if they put their 
Mafter or Lady to an immoderate Expence in 
dreffing a Dinner for a {mall Company, when. 
at the fame Time a prudent Manager would 
have drefled twice the Number of Dithes, for 


a much greater Company, at half the Coft. 


I have given no Directions for Cullis, as I 
have found by Experience, that Lemon Pickle 
and Browning anfwers both for Beauty and 
Tafte, (at a trifling Expence) better than Cullis, 
which is extravagant; for had I known the Ufe. 
and Value of thofe two Receipts when I firft 
took upon me the Part and Duty of a Houfe- 
keeper, it would have faved me a great deal of 
trouble in making Gravy, and thofe I ferved a 
deal of Expence. | 

' The Number of Receipts in this Book, arc: 
not fo numerous as in fome others, but they 
are what will be found ufeful and fufficient for 
any Gentleman’s Family,—neither have I med- 
died with Phyfical Receipts, leaving them to 


the Phyficians fuperior Judgment, whofe pro- 


per Province they are. 


THE 


THE 
Experienced Englith Houfe-Keeper. 


Obfervations on SOUPS. 
SEES, HEN you make any Kind of Soups, 


f yy Particularly Portable, Vermicclli, 
oy or brown Gravy Soup, or any other 
AP, ¥g that have Roots or Herbs in, al- 
SxEx ways obferve to lay your Meat in 
the Bottom of your Pan, with a good lump of 
Butter; cut the Herbs and Roots fmall, lay 
them over your Meat, cover it clofe, fet it over 
a very flow Fire, it will draw all the Virtuc out 
of the Roots or Herbs, and turns it to a good 
Gravy, and gives the Soup a very different 
flavour from putting Water in at the firft: 
When your Gravy is almoft dried up fill 
your Pan with Water, when it begins to boil 
take off the Fat, and follow the Directions of 
your Receipt for what Sort of Soup you are 
making: When you make old Peafe Soup, take 
foft Water, for green Peafe, hard is the beft, it 
keeps the Peafe a better Colour: When you 
make any white Soup, don’t put ini Cream ‘ull 
A. you 


2 The ExpERIENCED 


you take it off the Fire: Always difh up your 
Soups the laft thing; if 1t be a Gravy Soup it 
will fkin over if you let it ftand, if it be a 

Peafe Soup it often fettles, and the Top looks 
thin. 


To make Lemon Pickle, - 


NOK E two Dozen of Lemons, grate off 
Med ut-rinds very thin, cut them in four. 
Ordwriers,. Rut leave the Bottoms whol, rub on 
them equally half a Pound of Bay Salt, and 
{pread them on a large Pewter Difh, put them 
in a cool Oven, or let them dry gradually by 
the Fire ’till all the Juice is dried into the Peels, 
then put them into a Pitcher well glazed, with 
one Ounce of Mace, half an Ounce of Cloves 
beat fine, one Ounce of Nutmegs cut in thin 
flices, four Ounces. of Garlick pecled, half aPint 
of Muftard Seed bruifed a little, and tied in a 
Muflin Bag, pour two Quarts of boiling white 
Wine Vinegar upon them, clofe the - Pitcher 
well up, and let it ftand five or fix Days by the 
Fire, thake-it well up every Day, then tye it up 
and let it ftand for three Months to take off the 
bitter; when you bottle it, put the Pickle and 
Lemon ina Hair Sieve, prefs them well to get 
out the Liquor, and let it ftand till another 
Day, then pour off the fine and bottle it, let 
the other ftand three or four Days and it will 
refine itfelf, pour it off and bottle it, let it 
ftand again and bortle it, ’till the whole is re- 
fined; it may be put in any white Sauce, and 
will not hurt the Colour; it is very good for 

Fifth 


EncLisa HOUSE-KEEPER. 3 


Frfh Sauce and Made Difhes, a Tea Spoonful 
is enough for white, and two for brown Sauce 
for a Fow!; it isa moft ufeful Pickle and gives 
a pleafant flavour: Be fure you put it in be- 
fore you thicken the Sauce, or put any Cream 
in, left the fharpnefs makes it curdle. 


Browning for Madé Dithes 


Beat fmall four Ounces of treble refined” 
Sugar, put it in a clean Iron Frying Pan, with” 
one Ounce of Butter, fet it over a clear Fire, 
mix it very well together all the Time; when 
it begins to be frothy, the Sugar is diffolving, 
hold it higher over the Fire, have ready a Pint 
of Red Wine, when the Sugar and Butter is of 
a deep brown, pour in alittle of the Wine, ftir 
it well together, then add more Wine, and keep’ 
ftirring it all the Time; put in half an Ounce 
of Jamaica Pepper, fix Cloves, four Shallots 
peeled, two or threé blades of Mace, three 

poonfuls of Mufhroom Catchup, a little Salr, 
the Out-rind of one Lemon, boil thern flowly for 
ten Minutes, pour it intoaBafon, when cold, take 
off the {cum very clean, and bottle it for ufe. 


To make Portable Soup for Travellers. 


Taxe three large Legs of Veal, and one of 
Beef, the lean Part of Half a Ham, cut them 
in {mall Pieces, put a Quarter of a Pound of 
Butter at the Bottom of a large Caldron, then 
lay in the Meat and Bones, with four Ounces. 
of Anchovies, two Ounces of Mace, cut off the 

A 2 green 


4 The ExPpERIENCED 


green Leaves of five or fix Heads of Celery, 
wath the Heads quite clean, cut them fmall, 
put them in, with three large Carrots cut thin, 
cover the Caldran clofe, and fet it over a mode- 
rate Fire; when you find the Gravy begins to 
draw, keep taking it up ‘till you have got it 
all out, then put Water in to cover the Meat, 
fet it on the Fire again, and let it boil flowly 
for four Hours, then ftrain it through a Hair 
Sieve into a clean Pan, and let it boil three parts 
away, then ftrain the Gravy that you drawed 
. from the Meat into the Pan, iet it boil gently 
(and keep fcuming the Fat off very clean as it 


rifes) "tll it looks thick like Glew; you muft 


take great Care when its near enough that it 
don’t burn; put in Chyan Pepper to your Tafte, 
then pour it on flat Earthen Difhes, a Quarter 


of an Inch thick, and let it ftand ’till the next. 


Day, and cut it out with round Tins a little 
larger than a Crown Piece; lay the Cakes on 
Difhes, and fet them in the Sun to dry; this 
Soup will anfwer beft to be made in frofty 
Weather; when the Cakes are dry, put them in 
a Tin Box with Writing Paper betwixt every 
Cake, and keep them in a dry Place; this is a 
very ufeful Soup to be kept in Gentlemen’s Fa- 
- milies, for by pouring a Pint of boiling Water 

on one Cake, and a tittle Salt, ic will make a 
goad Bafon of Broth. A little boiling Water 
poured on it, will make Gravy for a Turkey, 
or Fowls, the longer itis kept the better, — 

N. 8. Be careful to keep turning the Cakes, 
as they dry. | 


To 


ExctisH HOUSE-KEEPER, ¢5 


To make a Tranfparent Soup. : 


TaKE a Leg of Veal, and cut off the Meat — 
as thin as you can, when you have cut off all 
meat clean from the Bone, brake the Bone in 
{mall Pieces, put the Meat ina large Jug, and 
the Bones at Top, with a bunch of Sweet Herbs, 
a quarter of -an Ounce of Mace, half a Pound 
of Jordan Almonds blanched and beat fine, 

ur on it four Quarts of boiling Water, let it 

and all Night by the Fire covered clofe, the 
next Day put it into a well tinned Sauce Pan, 
and let it boil flowly till it 1s reduced to two: 
Quarts; be fure you take the {cum and fat off 
as it rifes all the Time it is boiling; ftrain it 
into a Punch Bowl, let it fettle for two Hours, ° 
ur it into a clean Sauce Pan clear from the 
ediment, if any at the Bottom; have ready 
three Ounces of Rice boiled in Water ; if: you 
like Vermicelli better, boil two Ounces, when 
enough, put it in and ferve it up, . 


To make a Hare Soup. 


Cur a large old Hare in fmall Pieces, and 
ut it-in a Mug with three blades of Mace, a 
ittle Salt, two large Onions, one Red Herring, 
fix Morels, half a Pint of Red Wine, three 
Quarts of Water, bake it in a quick Oven thrce 
Hours, then firain it into aTofling Pan, have rea- 
dy boiled three Ounces of French Barley or Sa- . 
go, in Water; fcald the Liver of the Hare in boil- | 
ing Water two Minutes, rub it through a Hair 

ycve 


6 The EXPERIENCED 


Sieve with the back of a Wood Spoon, put it 
into the Soup with the Barley or Sago, and a 
‘Quarter of a Pound of Butter, fet it over the 
Fire, keep flirring it, but don’t let it boil ;- if 
you don’t like Liver, put in crifped Bread 
feeeped in Red Wine. This:is a rich Soup, and 
proper for a large Entertainment; and where’ 
two Soups are required, Almond and Onion 
Soup for the Top, and the Have. Soup for the 
Botton... : | 


To make a rich Vertnicelll: Soup. 


Inro a large Toffing Pan put four Ounces 
of Butter, cut a Knuckle of Veal; and’ a Scrag 
of’ Mutton into fmall Pieces, about the’ fize- of 
Wadnuts, flice in the Meat of aShank of Ham, 
with three or four blades of Mace, two- or 
three Carrots, two Parfnips, two large Onions, 
with a. Clove ftuck. in at each End, cut in four 
or five Heads of Celery wafhed clean, a Bunch 
of Sweet Herbs, eight or ten. Morels, and’ an 
Anchovy, cover the Pan clofe up, and fet it 
over a flow Fire, without any Water, ‘till the 
Gravy is drawn out of the Meat, then pour 
the Gravy out-into a‘Pot or Bafon, let the Meat 
brown in the fame Pan, and take care it don’t 
burn, then pour in four Quarts of Water, let 
it boil gently ’tillit is wafted to three Pints, then 
{train it, and put the other Gravy to it, fet it 
on the Fire, add toit two Ounces of Vermi- 
celli, cut the niceft Part. of a Head of Celery, 
Chyan Pepper and Salt to your Tafte, and let 
it: boil for four:‘Minutes; if not a good Colour, 

put 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 7 


put in a little Browning, lay a {mall French 
Roll in the Soup Difh, pour in the Soup upon 
it, and lay fome of the Vermicelli over it, : 


Lo make an Ox Cheek Soup. 


First break the Bones of an Ox Cheek, and 
wath it in many Waters, then lay it in warm. 
Water, throw in a little Salt to fetch out the 
flime, wath it out very well, then take a large 
Stew Pan, put two Ounces of Butter, at the 
Bottom of the Pan, and lay the flefh Side of 
the Cheek down, add to it half a Pound of 
a Shank of Ham cut in Slices, and four Heads 
af Celery, pull off the Leaves, wafh the Heads 
clean, and cut them in with three large Onions, 
two Carrots, and one Par{fnip fliced, a few Beets 
cut {mall, and three blades of Mace, fet it 
aver a moderate Fire a quarter of an Hour; 
this draws the Virtue from the Roots, which 
‘gives a pleafant ftrength to the Gravy. 

I have made a good Gravy by this Method, 
with Roots and Butter, only adding a little 
Browning to give it a pretty Colour: When 
the Head has fimered a quarter of an Hour, 
put to it fix Quarts of Water, and let it flew 
till ic 1s reduced to two Quarts: If you would 
haye it eat like Soup, ftrain and take out the 
Meat and other Ingredients, put the white part 
of a Head of Celery cut in {mall Pieces, with 
a little Browning to make it a fine Colour, take 
two Ounces of Vermicelli, give it a fcald in 
the Soup, and put the Top of a French Roll © 
in the Middle of a Tureen, and ferve it up. 


8 The ExrERIENCED 


If you would have it eat like Stew, take up 
the Face as-whole as poffible, and have ready 
cut in fquare Pieces a-boiled Turnip and Car- 
rot, a flice of Bread toafted and cut in {mall 
Dices, put in a little Chyan Pepper, and ftrain 
the Soup through a Hair Sieve upon the Meat, 
Carrot, Turnip, and Bread, fo ferve it up. 


To make Almond Soup. 


Take a Neck of Veal, and the Scrag-end of 
a Neck of Mutton, chop them in fmall Pieces, 
' put them in:a large Tolling Pan, cut in a Tur- 
nip with a blade or two of Mace, and five 
Quarts of Water, fet it over the Fire, and Jet 

it boil gently ‘till it 1s reduced to two Quarts, 
ftrain it through a Hair Sieve into a clear Pot, 
then put in fix Ounces of Almonds blanched 
and beat fine, half a Pint of thick Cream, and 
Chyan Pepper to your Tafte, have ready three. 
{mall French Rolls made for the Purpofe, the. 
fize of a {mall Tea Cup; if they are larger, 
they will not look well, and drink up too much 
of the Soup; blanch a few Jordan Almonds, 
and cut them lengthway, ftick them round 
the Edge of the Rolls flantway, then ftick 
them all over the Top of the Rolls, and put 
them in the Tureen; when difhed up pour the 
Soup upon the Rolls: Thefe Rolls look like a 
Hedge-hog: Some French Cooks give this Soup 
the Name of Hedge-hog Soup. 


To 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 9 


To make Onion Soup. 


Bort eight or ten large Spanifh Onions in 


_ Milk and Water, change it three times; when 


they are quite foft, rub them through a Hair 
Sieve, cut an old Cock in Pieces and boil it for 
Gravy, with one blade of Mace, ftrain it, and 
pour it upon the Pulp of the Onions, boil it 
gently with the crumb of anold Penny Loaf 
grated into half a Pint of Cream; add Chyan 
reper and Salt to your Tafte: A few Heads of 

{paragus or ftewed Spinage, both make it eat 
well and look very pretty: Grate a cruft of 


_ brown Bread round the Edge of the Dith, 


Ta make Green Peafe Soup. 


Shell a Peck of Peafe and boil them in Spring. 
Water till they are foft, then work them 
through a Hair Sieve, take the Water that your 
Peafe were boiled in, and put in a Knuckle of 


' Veal, three flices of lean Ham, cut two Car- 
- Yots, a Tumip, and a few Beet Leaves fhread .- 


—_ 


{mall, add a little more Water to the Meat, fet 
it over the Fire, and let it boil one Hour and 
ahalf then ftrain the Gravy into a Bowl and 
mix it with the Pulp, and put in a little Juice 
of Spinage, which muft be beat and fqueezed 
through a Cloth, put in as much as will make 
it look a pretty Colour, then give it a gentle 
boil, which will take off the tafte of the Spin- 
age, flice in the whiteft Part of a Head of Celery, 
put in a lump of Sugar the fize of a Walnut, 

. - &§B take 


10 The ExPERIENCED 


take a flice of Bread and cut it in little fquare 
Pieces, cut a little Bacon the fame way, fry 
them a light brown in frefh Butter, cut a large 
Cabbage Lettice in Slices, fry it after the other, 
put ic in the Tureen with the fried Bread’ ‘and 
Bacon; have ready boiled as for eating, a Puit 
of young Peafe, and put them in the Soup, 
with a little chopped Mint if you like it, and 
pour it into your Tureen. . | 


To make a Common Peafe Soup. 


To one Quart of fplit Peafe, put four Quarts 
of foft Water, a little lean Bacon, or roaft Beef 
Bones, wafh one Head of Celery, cut it and 
put it in with a Turnip, boil it till reduced to 
two Quarts, then work it through a-Cullendar 
with a wooden Spoon, mix a little Flour and 
- Water, and boil it wellin the Soup, and flice in 
another Head of Celery; Chyan Pepper and 
Salt to your Tafte; cut aflice of Bread in fmall 
Dice, fry them a light brown, and put them 
in your Difh, then pour the Soup upon it. 


To make a Peafe Soup for Lent. 


Put three Pints of blue’ boiling Peafe into 


five Quarts of foft cold’ Water, three Ancho- . 


vies, three Red Herrings, arid two large Onions, 
ftick in a Clove at each End, a Carrot anda 
Par{nip fliced in, with a bunch of Sweet Herbs, 
boil them all together ’till the Soup is thick, 
{train it through a Cullender, then flice in the 
white Part of a Head of Celery, a good lump 
° oO 


Mm 


ENcLisH HOUSE«KEEPER. 11 


of Butter, a little Pepper and Salt, a flice of 
Bread toafted and butter’d well, and cut in lit- 
tle Diamonds, put it into the Difh, and pour 
the Soup upon it; and alittle dried Mint if 
you choofe it. : 


CHAP, I. 


Ovfervations on Dreffing Fith. 


Wess you fry any Kind of Fifh, wafh 
~ them clean, dry them well with a Cloth, 
and duft them with Flour, or rub them with 
with Egg and Bread Crumbs; be fure your 
dripping Hogs-lard or Beef-fuet is boiling be- 
fore you put in your Fifth, they will fry hard 
and clear, Butter is apt to burn them black, 
and make them foft; when you have fried 
your Fifh, always lay them in a Difh or Hair 
Sieve to drain, before you difh them up: 
Boiled Fifh fhould always be wafhed and 
rubbed carefully with a little Vinegar, before 
they are put into the Water; boil all Kinds of 
Fifh very flowly, and when they will leave the 
Bone they are enough; when you take them 
up, fet you Fifh-plate over a Pan of hot Water 
to drain, and cover it with a Cloth or clofe co- 
ver, to prevent it from turning their Colour ; 
fet your Fifh-plate in the infide of your Difh, 
and fend it up, and when you fry Parifley, be 
fure you pick it nicely, wath it well, then dip 
it in cold Water, and throw it into a Pan of 
boiling fat, take it out ‘immediately it will be 


very crifp and a fine green. 
B2 To 


12 The EXPERIENCED 


. Lo drefs a Turtle a bundred Weight. 


Cut off the Head, take care’ of the Blood, 
and take off all the Fins, lay them in Salt and 
Water, cut off the bottom Shell, then cut off the 
Meat that grows to it, (which is the Callepy 
or Fowl) take out the Hearts, Livers, and 
Lights, and put them by themfelves, take out 
the Bones and the Flefh out of the back Shell 
(which is the Callepafh) cut the flefhy Part into 
Pieces, about two Inches fquare, but leave the 
fat Part, which looks green, (it is called the 
Monfieur) rub it firft with Salt, and wafh it in 
feveral Waters to make it come clean; then 
put in the Pieces that you took out, with three 
Bottles of Madeira Wine, and four Quarts of 
ftrong Veal Gravy, a Lemon cut in Slices, a 
bundle of Sweet Herbs, a Tea Spoonful of 
Chyan, fix Anchovies wafhed and picked clean, 
a quarter of an Ounce of beaten Mace, a Tea 
Spoonful of Myufhroom Powder, and half a Pint 
of Effence of Ham if you have it, lay over it 
a coarfe Pafte, {et it in the Oven for three Hours; 
when it comes out take off the Lid and fcum 
off the Fat, and brown it with a Salamander. 

. This isthe Bottom Difh. — 


Chen blanch the Fins, cut them. off at the 
firft Joint, fry the firft Pinjons a ,fine brown, 
. and put them into a Toffing Pan with two 
Quarts of ftrong brown Gravy, a Glafs of Red 
Wine, and the Blood of the Turtle, a large 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, the fame of Brown- 


ing, 


- «8 


i 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 13 


ing, two Spoonfuls of Mufhroom Catchup, 
Chyan and Salt, an Onion ftuck with Cloves, 
anda bunch of Sweet Herbs ; a little before it is 
enough, put in an Ounce of Morels, the fame 
of Truffles, ftew them gently over a flow Fire 
for two Hours; when they are tender, put 
them into another Toffing Pan, thicken your 
Gravy with Flour and Butter, and ftrain it upon 
them, give thema boil, and ferve them up. 
This is a Corner Dith. 


Then take the thick or large Part of the Fins, © 
blanch them in warm Water, and put them ina 
Toffing Pan, with three Quarts of ftrong Veal 
Gravy, a Pint of Madeira Wine, half a Tea 
Spoonful of Chyan, a little Salt, half a Lemon, 
a little ‘beaten’Mace, a Tea Spoonful of Muth- 
room Powder, and‘a‘bunch of Sweet Herbs, Ict 
them ftew ‘till quite tender, they will take two 
Hours at leaft, then take them up into another 
Tofling Pan, ftrain your Gravy, and make it 
pretty thick with Flour and Butter, then put 
in a few boiled Forcemeat Balls, which muft 
be’ made of the vealy Part of your Turtle, left 
out for that Purpofe, one Pint of frefh Mufh- 
rooms, if you carinot get them, pickled ones will 
do, and eight Artichoke-bottoms boiled tender, 
and cut in quarters, fhake them over the Fire 
five or fix Minutes, then put in half a Pint of 
thick Cream, with the Yolks of fix Eggs, bearen 
exceeding well, fhake it over the Fire again 
’cill it looks thick and white, but do not Iet it 
boil, difh wp your Fins with the Balls, -Mutfh- 
rooms, and Artichoke-bottoms over and round 
them. This is the Top Dith, 

| ‘Then 


C—O 


14 The ExPERIENCED | 


Then take the Chicken Part, and cut it like 
Scotch Collops, fry them a light brown, then put 
in a Quart of Veal Gravy, ftew them gently 
a little more than half an Hour, and put toitthe 
Yolks of four Eggs boiled hard, a few Morels, 
a {core of Oyfters, thicken your Gravy, it mutt 
be neither white nor brown, but a pretty Gravy 
Colour, fry fome Oyfter Patties and lay round it, 
This is a Corner Difh to anfwer the {mall Fins. 


Then take the Guts, (which is reckoned the 


beft Part of the Turtle) rip them open, fcrape 


and wafh them exceeding well, rub them well 
with Salt, wafh them through many Waters, 
and cut them in Pieces two Inches long, then 
{cald the Maw or Paunch, take off the Skin, 
{crape it well, cut it into Pieces about half an 
Inch broad and two Inches long, put fome of the 
fifhy Part of your Turtle in it, fet it over a flow 
Charcoal Fire, with two Quarts of Veal Gravy, 
a Pint of Madeira Wine, a little Mufhroom 
Catchup, a few Shalots, a little Chyan, half a 
a Lemon, and ftew them gently four Hours, ’ull 
your Gravy is almoft confumed, then thicken 
it with Flour, mixed with a little Veal Gravy, 
put in half an Ounce of Morels, a few Force- 
meat Balls, made as for the Fins; difh it up, 
and brown it with a Salamander, or in the 
« Oven, oe, 
This is a Corner Dith. 


Then take the Head, {kin it and cut it in two 
Pieces, put it into a ftew Pot with all the Bones, 
Hearts, and Lights to a Gallon of Water, or Veal 

Brot 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. — t5 


Broth, three or four blades of Mace, one Sha- 
lot, a flice of Beef beaten to Pieces, and a bunch 
of Sweet Herbs, fet-them in a very hot Oven, 
and let it ftand an Hour at leaft, when it comes 
out ftrain it into a Tureen for the Middle of 
the Table. 


Then. take the Hearts and Lights, chop 

them very fine, put them in a Stew Pan, wi 

a Pint of good Gravy, thicken it:and ferve 

it up, lay the Head in the Middle, fry the 

Liver, lay it round the Head upon the Lights, 

garnifh with whole flices of Lemon. | 
This is for the fourth Corner Difh. 


N. B. The firft Courfe fhould be of Turtle 
only, when it is dreffed in this Manner; but 
when it is with other Victuals, it fhould be in 
three different Difhes, but this Way I have often 
dreffed then), and‘have given great Satisfaction. 
Obferve to kill your Turtle. the Night before 
you want it, or véry Early ‘fiext Morning, that 
you may have all your Difhes going on at a 
Time. Gravy for a Turtle a hundred Weight, 
will take two Legs of Veal, and two Shanks 
of Beef. 7h 


To drefs a Cod’s Head and Shoulders, 


TAKE out the Gills and the Blood clean from 
the Bone, wafh the Head very clean, rub over 
it a little Salt, and a Glafs of Allegar’, then lay 
iton your Fifh Plate; when your Water boils, 
throw in a good handful of Salt, with a Clas 

| ) 


16 The ExpERIENCED 


of Allegar, then put in your Fith, and let ir 
boil gently half an Hour; if itis a large one 
three Quarters; take it up very carefully, and 


ftrip.the Skin nicely off, fet it before a brifk. 


Fire, dredge it-all over with Flour, and bafte it 
well with Butter; when the froth begins to 
rife, throw over it fome very fine white Bread 
Crumbs, you mutt keep bafting it all the Time 


to make it froth well; when it is a fine light. 


brown, diff it up, and garnifh it with a Le- 
mon.cut in Slices, f{craped Horfe-radifh, Barber- 
ries, a few {mall Fifh fried and laid: round it, 
or. fried Oyfters, cut the Rowe and Liver in 
Slices, and lay over it a little of the Lobfter out 
of the Sauce in lumps, and then ferve it. 


To make Sauce for the Cod’s Head. 


TAKE a Lobfter, if it be alive, ftick a Skew- 


er in the vent of the Tail, (to keep the Water 
out) throw a Handful of Salt in the Water; 
when it boils put in the Lobfter, and bail it 
half.an Hour; if it has Spawn on, pick them 
off, and pound them exceeding fine; in a Mar- 


ble Mortar, and put them into walf a Pound. 


of good melted Butter, then take the Meat out 
of your Lobfter, pull itin bits and put it in 
your Butter, with a Meat Spoonful of Lemon 


Pickle, and the fame of Walnut Catchup, a- 


flice of an End of Lemon, one or two flices of 


Horfe-radifh, as niuch beaten Mace as will le. 


on a Six-pence, Salt and Chyan to your Tafte, 
boil them one Minute, then take out the Horfe- 
radifh and Lemon, and ferve it up in your 
Sauce Boat. x 

. B. 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 17 


N. B. If you can get no Lobfter, you may 
make Shrimp, Cockle, or Mufcle Sauce the fame 
way; if there can be no Kind of Shell-fifh 
got, you then may add two Anchovies cut 
{mall, a Spoonful of Walnut Liquor, a large 
Onion ftuck with Cloves, ftrain it and put it in 
the Sauce-boat. 


Second Way to drefs 2 Cod’s Head. 


TAKE out the Gills and Blood clean from 
the Back-bone, wafh it well, and put it on 
your Plate; when your Water boils, put in 
two Handfuls of Salt, and half a Pint of Al-+ 
legar, it will make your Fifh firmer, then put 
in the Cod’s Head; if its of a middle fize it. 
will take an Hour’s boiling, then take it up, 
and ftrip off the Skin gently, dredge it well 
with Flour, and lay lumps of Butter on it; if 
it fuits you better, you may fend it to the 
Oven, and if it is not brown all over, do it 
with a Salamander: Make your Gravy Sauce 
- to.it and ferve it up. 


To drefi young Codlins Mike Sale Fith. 


TAKE young Codlins, gut and dry them well 
‘with a Cloth, fill their Eyes full of Salt, throw 
a little on the Back-bone, and let them lie all 
Night, then hang them up by the Tail a Day or 
two; as you have occafion for them, boilthem 
in Spring Water, and drain them well, difh them 
up, and pour Egg Satice on them, and fend 
them to the Table, 7 

Q 


i8 - |The ExPrERrENCED 


To drefs a Salt Cod. 


Strrgzp your falt Fifh in Water all Night, 
with a Glafs of Vinegar, it will fetch out the 
Salt, and make it eat like frefh Fifh, the next 
Day boil it, when it is enough, pull it in fleaks 
into your Difh, then pour Egg Sauce over it, 
or Parf{nips boiled and beat fine, with Butter 
and Cream; fend it to the Table on a Water 
Plate, for it will foon grow cold. 


To make Egg Sauce for a Salt Cod. 


Boit four Eggs hard, firft half chop the 
Whites, then put in the Yolks, and chop them 
both together, but not very fmall, put them into 
half a Pound of good melted Butter, and let 
it botl up, then pour it on the Fifth. 


To drefs Cod Sounds. 


STEEP your Sounds as you do the falt Cod, 
and boil them in a large Quantity of Milk and 
Water, when they are very tender and white, 
take them up, and-drain the Water out, then 

ur the Egg Sauce boiling hot over them, and 

erve them up. | 


To drefs Cod Sounds dike little Turkeys. 


Bort your Sounds as for eating, but not 
too much, take them up and let them ftand 
all they are quite cold, then make a Force- 

en meat 


EnctishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 19. 


meat of chopped Oyflers, crumbs of Bread, a 
lump. of Butter, Nu , Pepper, Salt, and 
the Yolks of two.Eggs, fill your Sounds with 
it, and fkewer them up in the fhape of a Tur- 
key, then lard them down each Side, as you 
would do a Turkey’s Breaft, duft therm well 
with Flour, and put them in a Tin Oven to 
roaft before the Fire, and bafte them well with 
Butter; when they are enough, pour on them 
Oyfter Sauce; three are fufficient for a Side 
mh; garnifh with Barberries: It is a pretty 
vide Dith for a large Table, for a Dinner in 
ent. 


To boil Salmon Crimp. 


'§caLe your Salmon, take out the Blood, 
wath it well, and lay iton a Fifth Plate, put 
your Water in a Fifth Pan with a little Salt; 
when it boils put in your Fifh for half a Mi- 
nute, then take it out for a Minute or two; 
when you have done it fo four times, boil itun- 
til it be enough; when you take it out of the | 
Fith Pan, fet it over the Water to drain; cover 
it well with a clean Cloth dipped in hot Wa- 
ter; fry fome fmall Fifhes,, or a few flices 
of Salmon, and lay round it: Garnifh with 
{craped Horfe-radifh and Fennel. 


To, make Sauce for a Salmon. 


Bort a bunch of Fennel and Parfley,. chop 
them fmall, and put it into fome good melted 
Butter,-and fend it to the Table in a Sauce Boat, 


_ another with Gravy Sauce. 
C2 To 


The ExPpERIENCED 


[o make the Gravy Sauce, put alittle brown 
avy into a Sauce Pan, with one Anchovy, 
‘ea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a Meat Spoon- 
_of Liquor from your Walnut Pickle, one 
two Spoonfuls of the Water that the Fifh 
s boiled in, it gives it a pleafant flavour; a 
k of Horfe-radifh, a little Browning, and 
t, boil them three or four Minutes, thicken 
with Flour and a good lump of Butter, and 
in itthrough a Hair Sieve. | 

N. B. This is a good Sauce for moft kinds, of 
led Fifth, -_ 


. 
. 


To boil a ‘Turbot. 


WasH your Turbot clean, if you Iet it he 
the Water it will make it foft, and rub it over 
th Allegar, it will make it firmer, then lay- 
mn your Fifh Plate, with the white Side up, 
'a Cloth over it, and pin it tight under your 
te, which will keep it from breaking, boil 
yently in hard Water, with a good deal of 
t and Vinegar, and fcum it well, or it will 
colour the Skin; when it is enough take it 
and drain it, take the Cloth carefully off, 
1 flip it on to your Difh, lay over it fried- 
fters, or Oyfter Patties, fend in Lobfter .or 
avy Sauce in Sauce Boats: Garnifh it with 
(p Parfley and Pickles. 
’ . B, Don’t put in your Fith ull your Water 
Is, 


10 


ExctisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 21 


To boil a Pike with a Pudding inthe Belly. 


Take out the Gills and Guts, wath it well, 
then make a good Forcemeat of Oyfters chop 
ped fine, the crumbs of half a Penny Loaf, a 
few Sweet Herbs,.and.a litrle Lemon Peel 
fhread fine, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt to your 
Tafte, a good lump of Butter, the Yolks of two. 
Eggs, mix them well together, and put them 
in the Belly of your Fifh, fow it up, fkewer it. 
round, put hard Water in your Fifth Pan, add 
to it a Tea Cupful of Vinegar, and a little Salt; 
when it boils put.in the Fifth; if it be of a 
middle Size, it will take half an Hour’s boil- 
ing: Garnifh it with: Walnuts and pickled. 
Barberries, ferve it up with Oyfter Sauce in a 
Boat, pour a little Sauce on the Pike: You may 
drefs a roafted Pike the fame way. 


To few Carp white. © 


WueEn theCarp are fcaled, gutted, and wafh- 
ed, put them into a Stew Pan, with two Quar’s 
of Water, half a Pint. of White Wine, a little 
Mace, whole Pepper, and Sals, two Onions, 2 
bunch of Sweet Herbs, a ftick of Horfe-radith, 
cover the Pan clofe, let it ftand an Hour and’ 
a Half over a flow Stove, then put a Gill of 
White Wine into a Sauce Pan, with twoAncho-| 
vies chopped, an Onion, a little Lemon Peel, 
a quarter of a Pound of Butter rolled in Flour, 
a httle thick Cream, and a large Tea Cupful 
of the Liquor the Carp was ftewed in, oil 

them 


22 The ExpERIENCED 


them a few Minutes, drain your Carp, add to 
the Sauce the Yolks of two Eggs, mixed with 
alittle Cream; when it boils up fqueegze in 
the Juice of half a Lemon; difh up your Carp, 
and pour your Sauce hot upon it. — 


To make White Fifth Sauce. 


Wash two Anchovies, put them into a Sauce’ 
Pan,. with one Glafs of White Wine, and two 
of Water, half a Nutmeg grated, and.a little Le- 
mon Peel;,when it.has boiled :five or ‘fix ‘Mi- 
nutes, ftrain it through.a Sieve, add to it a 
Spoonful of White Wine Vinegar, thicken it 
a little, then put in near. a Pound of Butter 
rolled in Flour, ‘boil it well, and pour it :hot 
upon your Fith. 


To flew Carp .or Tench. . 


Gur and fcale your Fifh, -wath and dry them 
well with a clean Cloth, dredge them well 
with Flour, fry them in drippings or fweet 
- rendered Suet, until they are alight brown, and 
then put them in a Stew Pan, with a Quart of 
“Water, and.one Quart of Red Wine, 2 Meat 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, another of .Brown- 
ing, the fame of Walnut or Mum Catchup, 2 
little Mufhroom Powder, and Chyan -to your 
Tafte, a large Onion ftuck with Cloves, and a 
flick of Horfe-radifh, cover your Pan clofe up 
to keep in the Steam, let them ftew gently over 
a Stove Fire, till your Gravy 1s reduced to jutft 
enough to cover your Fifh in the Difh, then 

; take 


ener ee) ee ge 


ge eg 


- ~ eee 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 22 


take the Fifh out, and put them on the Dith 
you intend for Table, fet the Gravy on the 
Fire, and thicken it with Flourand a large lump 
of Butter, boil it a little, and ftrain it over 
your Fifa: Garnifh them with pickled Muth- 
rooms and {crapé¢d Horfe-radifh, put a bunch 
of picked Barberries, ora f{prig of Myrtle in 
their Mouths, and fend them to the Table. 
It is a Top Difh for a grand Entertainment. 


To drefs @ Sturgeon. 


Take what fize of a piece of Sturgeon you 
think proper, and wafh it clean, lay itall Nighe | 
in Salt and Water, the next Morning take it 
out, rub it well with Allegar, and let ic lie in 
it for two Hours, then have ready a Fifth Ket~ 
tle full of boiling Water, with one Ounce of 
Bay Salt, two large Onions, and a few {prigs 
of Sweet Marjorum; boil your Sturgeon ’till 
the Bones will leave the Fifh, then take it up, 
take the Skin off, and flour it well, fet it be- 
fore the Fire, bafte it with frefh Butter, and 
let it ftland till it bé a fine brown, then difhk it 
up, and pour into the Dif the fame Sauce as 
for the white Carp: Garnifh with crifp Parfley 
and red Pickles. ° 

This is a proper Difh for the Top or Middle. 


To roaft large Fells or Lampreys with a Pud- 
ding in the Belly. 


Skim your Eells or Lampreys, cut off the 
Head, take the Guts out and fcrape the Blood 
clean 


Pe 


24 . The. .ExpERIf£NCED 


clean from the Bone, then make a good Force- 
meat uf Oyfters or Shrimps chopped fmall, the 
crumbs of half a Penny Loaf, a little Nurmeg 
and Lemon Peel fhread fine, Pepper, Salt, and 
the Yolks of two Eggs, put them in the Belly 
of your Fifh, fow it up,-and turn it round on 
| your Difh, put over it Flour and Butter, pour 
| a little Water in your Dith, and bake it ina 
moderate. Oven; when it comes out take the 
= Gravy from under it, and {kim off the Far, 
then ftrain it through a Hair Sieve, add to ita 
: Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, two of Brown- 
ing, a Meat Spoonful of Walnut Catchup, a 
Glafs of White Wine, one Anchovy, anda tice 
of Lemon, let it boil ten Minutes, thicken it with 
Butter and Flour, fend it up in a Sauce Boat, 
difh your Fifh: Garnifh it with Lemon and 
crifp Parfley. 
This is a pretty Difh for either Corner or Side 
for a Dinner. 


To boil Mackrel. 


Gut your Mackrel and dry them carefully 
‘with a:.clean Cloth, then rub them flightly 
over witha little Vinegar, and lay them ftraight 
on your Fith Plate, (for turning them round of- 
breaks them) put a little Salt in the Water, 
when it boils, put them into your Fifh Pan, 
and boil them gently fifteen Minutes, then 
take them up and drain them well, and put 
the Water that runs from them into a Sauce 
Pan, with two Tea Spoonfuls of Lemon Pickle, 
one Meat Spoonful of Walnut Catchup, the 
ame 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2s 


fame of Browning, a Blade or two of Mace, 
one Anchovy, a Slice of Lemon, boil them all 
together a quarter of an Hour, then ftrain it 
through a Hair Sieve, and thicken it with Flour 
and Butter, fend it in a Sauce Boat, and Parfley 
Sauce in another, difh up your Fifh with the 
Tails in the Middle, garnith it with {fcraped 
Horfe-raddifh and Barberries. 


To boil Herrings. 


ScaLE, gut, and wafh your Herrings, dry 
them clean, and rub them over with a little 
Vinegar and Salt, Skewer them with their Tails 
in their Mouths, lay them on your Fifh Plate, 
when your Water boils put them in, they will 
take ten or twelve Minutes boiling, when you 
take them up, drain them over the Water, 
then turn the Heads into the Middle of your 
Difh, lay round them fcraped Horfe-raddith, 
Parfley and Butter for Sauce. 


To fry Herrings. 


ScaLe, wafh, and dry your Herrings well, 
lay them feparately on a Board, and fet them 
to the Fire two or three Minutes before you 
want them, it will keep the Fifh from flicking 
to the Pan, duft them with Flour, when your 
Dripping or Butter is boiling hot put in your 
Fifth, a few at a Time, fry them over a brifk 
‘Fire, when you have fried them all, fet the 
Tails up one againft another in the Middle of 
the Difh, then fry a large Handful of Parfley 

Dp .  crifp, 


26 The ExPpERIL ENCED 


crifp, take it out before it lofes its Colour, lay 
‘it round them, and Parfley Sauce in a Boat; or. 
if you like Onions better fry them, lay fame 
round your Fifh, and make Onion Sauce for 
them; or you may cut off the Heads after they 
are fried, chop them and put them into a 
Sauce-pan, with Ale, Pepper, Salt, and an An~- 
chovy, thicken it with Flour and Butter, fram 
it, then put it in a Sauce Boat. 


To bake Herrings. 


WuHEw you have cleaned your Herrings as 
above, lay them en a Board, take a little Black 
and Jamaica Pepper, a few Cloves, and a good 
deal of Salt, mix them. together, then rub it all 
over the Fifh, lay them ftraight in a Pot, cover 
them with Allegar, tae a {trong Paper over the 
Pot, and bake them in a moderate Oven, if 
your Allegar be good, they will keep two or 
three Months, you may ¢at them either hot or 
cold. 


To boil Scate or Ray. 


CLEAN your Scate or Ray very well, and cut 
st in long narrow Pieces, thea put it in boiling 
Water with a little Salt in it, when it has boiled 
a guamter ef an Hour take it out, flip the Skin 
off, then put it into your Pam again, with a 
jittle Vinegar, and boil it ‘till enough; when 
you take it up, fet it over the Water to-drain, 
and cover itclofe up, and when you dish it, be as 
quick as poffible, for it foon goes cold, pour 


over 


pats Rea 


i eee Pas er re 


EncLishH HOUSE-KREEPER. 23 


— over it Cockle, Shrimp, or Mufcle Sauce, lay 
over it Oyfter Patties, garnifh it with Barberries 
- and Horfe-raddith. 


To fry Soles. 


_ . S3krn your Soles as you do Eels, but keep on 
their Heads, rub them over with an Egg, and 
fitew over them Bread Crumbs, fry them over 
a brifk Fire in Hogs-lard a light Brown, ferve 
them up with good melted Butter, and garnifh 
it with green Pickles. _ 


To marinate Soles. 


Bory thém in Salt and Water, bone and drain 
them, lay them on a Dith with the Belly up, 
boit fome Spinage and pound it in a Mortar, 
then boil four Eggs hard, chop the Whites and 
Yolks feparate, ie green, white, and yellow 
amongit the Soles, ferve them up with melted 
Butter in a Boat. : 


To boil Haddocks or Whitings. 


Gut, and wafh your Haddocks or Whitings, 
dry them with a Cloth, and rub a little Vine- 
gar over them, it will keep the Skin on better, 
duft them well with Flour, rub your Gridiron 
_ with Butter, and let it be very hot when you 

lay the Fifh on, or they will fick, turn them 
two or three Times on the Gridiron, when 
enough, ferve them up, and lay Pickles round 

_ Dp 2 them, 


28 The ExpERIENCED 


them, with plain melted Butter, or Cockle 
Sauce, they are a pretty. Difh for Supper. 


A fecond Way. 


WueEN you have cleaned your Haddocks or 
Whitings, as above, put them in a Tin Oven, 
and fet them before a quick Fire, when the 
Skins begin to rife take it off, beat an Egg,rub 
it over them with a Feather,:and ftrew over 
them a ‘few Bread Crumbs, dredge them well 
with Flour, when your Gridiron.is hot rub it 
well with Butter or Suet, it muft be very hot 
before you lay the Fifh on, when you have 
turned them, rub a little cold Butter over them, 
turn them as your Firé requires until they are 
enough and a little Brown; lay round them 
Cockles, Mufcles, or red Cabbage, you may 
either have Shrimp Sauce or melted Butter. 


To fry Smelts or Sparlings. 


Draw the Guts out at the Gills, but leave in 
the Melt or Roe, dry them with a Cloth, beat 
an ESS and rub it over them with a Feather, 
then ftrew Bread Crumbs over them, fry them 
with Hogs-lard or rendered Beef Suet, when 
it 3s boiling hot put in your Fifh, fhake them 
a little, and fry them a nice Brown, drain them 
in a Sicve, when you difh them put a Bafon in 
the Middle of your Difh with the Bottom up, 
lay the Tails of your Fith on it, fry a Handful 
of Parfley in the Fat your Fifth was fryed in, 
take it out of Water as you fry it, and it will 

kcep 


_ _ a ae 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 29 


keep its Colour and crifp fooner, put a little 
on the Tails, and lay the reft in Lumps round 
the Edge of the Difh, ferve it up with good 
melted Butter for Sauce. ) 


To fry Perch or Trout. 


WHEN you have fcaled, guted, and wathed 
your Perch or Trout, dry them well, then lay 
them feparately.on a Board before the Fire two 
Minutes before you fry them, duft them well 
with Flour, and fry them a fine Brown, in roaft 
. Drippings or rendered Suet, ferve them up 
with melted Butter and crifped Parfley. 


To drefs Perch iz Water Sokey. 


ScaLe, gut, and wafh your Perch, put Salt 
in your Water, when it boils.put in the Fifh, 
with an Onion cut in Slices, you muft feparate 
it into round Rings,a Handful of Parfley pick- 
ed and wafhed clean, put in as much Milk as 
will turn the Water white, when your Fifh is 
enough, put them in a Soup Difh, and pour a 
little of the Water over them with the Parfley 
and the Onions, then ferve it up with Butter 
and Parfley, in a Boat, Onions may be omitted — 
if you pleafe. You may boil Trout the fame 


Way. 
To boil Eels. 


Sk1N, gut, and take the Blood out of your 
Fels, cut off their Heads, dry them, and yurn 
them 


40 The EXPERIENCED 


them round on your Fith Plate, boil them in 
Salt and Water, and make Parfley Sauce for 
them. | 


To pitch-cock Eels. 


Skin, gut, and wath your Eels, then dry 
them with a Cloth, fprinkle them with Pepper, 
Salt, and a httle dried Sage, turn them back- 
ward and forward, and Skewer them, rub your 
Gridiron with Beef Stet, broil them a good 
Brown, put them on your Difh with 
teelted Butter, and lay round fried Parfley. 


To broil Eels. 


~Wuen you have {fkined and cleanfed your 
Fels as before, rub them with the Yolke of an 
Egg, ftrew over them Bread Crumbs, choped 
Parfley, Sage, Pepper and Salt, bafte them well 
with Butter, and fet them in a Dripping-pan, 
roaft or broil them on a Gridiron, ferve them 
up with Parfley and Butter for Sauce. 


To boil Flounders, and all Kinds of Flat Fith. 


Curt off the Fins, and nick the brown Side 
under the Head, then take out the Guts, and 
dry them with a Cloth, boil them in Salt and 
Water, make either Gravy, Shrimp, Cockle, 
or Mufcle Sauce, and garnifh it with red 
Cabbage. 


To 


2 een gg EB ope 


L 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 3t 


To few Oylters, and all Sorts of Shell Fith, 


WueEn you have opened your Oyfters, put 
their Liquor into a Tofling Pan, with a little 
beaten Mace, thicken it with Flour and Butter, 
boil ic three or four Minutes, toaft 2 Slice of 
white Bread, and cut it into three-cornered 
Pieces, lay them round your Difh, put in a 
Spoonful of good Cream, put in your Oyfters, 
and fhake them round in your Pan, you mutt 
not let them boil, for if they do it will make 
them hard and look .{mall, ferve them up in 2 
little Soup Dith or Plate. 


N. B. You may ftewCockles, Mufcles, or any 
Shell Fifh the fame Way. 


To fcollep Oykers. 


WHEN your Oytlers are opened, pnt them 
in a Bafon, and wafh them out of their own 
Liquor, put fome -in your Scolloped-fhells, 
ftrew over them a few Bread Crumbs, and lay 
a Slice of Butter on them, then more Oyfters, 
Bread Crumbs, and a Shce of Buttér on the 
Top, put them into 2 Dutch Oven to brown, 
and ferve them up in the Shells. 


To fry Oyfters. 
TAKE a quarter of a Hundred of large Oyf- 


ters, beat the Yolks of two Eggs, add to ita 
little Nutmeg, and a Blade of Mace pounded, 
a 


32 The ExPERIENCED 


a Spoonful of Flour, and a little Salt, dip in 
your Oyfters, and fry them in Hogs-lard a 
light Brown, if you chufe you may adda little 
Parfley fhread fine. 


N. B. They are a proper garnifh for Cods- 
Head, Calves-head, or moft-made Difhes. 


To make Oyfter Loaves. , 

Take {mall French Rafps, or you may make 
little round Loaves, make a round Hole in the 
Top, fcrape out all the Crumbs, then put your 
Oyiters into a Tofling Pan, with the Liquor 
and Crumbs that came out of your Rafps or 
Loaves, and a good Lump of Butter, ftew them 
together five or fix Minutes, then put in a 
Spoonful of good Cream, fill your Rafps or 
Loaves, lay the bit of Cruft carefully on again, 
fet them in the Oven-to crifp. 

Three are enough for a Side Difh. 


To boil Lobfters. 


Take your Lobfter, and put a Skewer in the 
Vent of the Tail, to prevent the Water from get- 
ting into the Body of the Lobfter, put it into 
a Pan of boiling Water with a little Salt in ir, 
if it be a large one it will take half an Hour’s 
boiling, when you take it out, put a Lump of 
Butter in a Cloth, and rub it over, it will ftrike 
the Colour and make it look bright. 


— To 


ExcuishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 33 


To roaft Lobfters. 


Har boil your Lobfter as before, rub it 
well with Butter, and fet it- before the Fire, 
bafte it all over ’till the Shell looks a dark 
Brown, ferve it up with good melted Butter. 


To pickle Sturgeon. 


Cur your Sturgeon into what fize Pieces you 
pleafe, wafh it well, and tie it with Mats, to 
every three Quarts of Water, put one Quart 
of old {trong Beer, a Handful of Bay Salt, and 
double the Quantity of common Salt, one 
Ounce of Ginger, two Ounces of Black Pepper, 
one Ounce of Cloves, and one of Jamaica 
Pepper, boil it till ic will leave the Bone, then 
take it up, the next Day put in a Quart of 
trong Ale Allegar, and a little Salt, tie it down 
with ftrong Paper, and keep it for Ufe.——Don’t 
put your Sturgeon in ’till the Water boils. 


To pickle Salmon Newcaffle Way. 


TaKE.a Salmon about twelve Pounds, gut it, 
then cut off the Head, and cut it a-crofs in 
what Pieces you pleafe, but don’t fplit it, {crape 
the Blood from the Bone, and wafh it well out, 
then tie it a-crofs each Way, as you do Stur- 
geon, fet on your Fifh Pan, with two Quarts 
of Water, and three of ftrong Beer, half a 
Pound of Bay Salt, and one Pound of common 
Salt, when it boils {cum it well, then put inas , 

E much 


34 The ExpERIENCED 


much Fifh as your Liquor will cover, and when 
it itis enough take is carefully out,.left you 
{trip off the Skin, and lay it on Earthen Dithes ; 
when you have done all your Fith, let it fland 
till the next Day, put it into Pots, add to the 
Liquor three Quarts of ftrong Beer Allegar, 
half an Ounce of Mace, the fame of Cloves 
and Black Pepper, one Ounce of Long Pepper, 
two Ounces of White Ginger fliced, boil them 
well together half an Hour, then pour it boil- 
ing hot upon your Fifh, when. cold cover it well 
with ftrong- Brown Paper.—This will keep a 
whole Year, 


To pickle Oyfters. 
Oren the largeft and fineft Oyfters you can 


get, whole and clean from the Shell, wath 
them in their own Liquor, let it ftand to fettle, 


then pour it from the Sediment into a Sauce 


Pan, put to it a Glafs of Lfbon Wine, as much 
White Wine Vinegar as you had Oyfter Li- 

uor, three or four Blades of Mace, a Nutmeg 

iced, a few White Pepper Corns, and a little 
Salt, boil it five or fix Minutes, fcum it, then 
put in yourOyfters, fimmer them ten or twelve 
Minutes, take them out, and put them in nar- 
row-top'd Jars, when they are cold pour over 
them rendered Mutton Suet, tie them down 
- with a Bladder, and keep them for Ufe. 


To 


in nee bd 


EncLIsH HOUSE-KEEPER. 325 


To collar Mackarel. 


Gur, and flit your Mackarel down the Belly, 
cut off the Head, take out the Bones, take 
Care you don’t cut it an Holes, then lay it flac 
upon its Back, feafon it with Mace, Nutmeg, 
Pepper and Salt, and a Handful of Parfley 
thread fine, ftrew it over them, roll them tight, 
and tie them well feparately in Cloths, boil them 
gently twenty Minutes in Vinegar, Salt and 
Water, then take them out, put them into a 
Pot, pour the Liquor on them, or the Cloth will 
ftick to the Fifh, the next Day take the Cloth 
off your Fifth, put a little more Vinegar to the 
Pickle, keep them for Ufe; when you fend 
them to the Table, garnifh with Fennel, or 
rarileys and put fome of the Liquor under 
them. 


To. pickle Mackarel. 


Wash and gut your Mackarel, then fkewer 
them round with their Tails in their Mouths, 
bind them with a Fillet to keep them from 
breaking, boil them in Salt and Water, about 
ten Minutes, then take them carefully out, put 
to the Water a Pint of Allegar, two or three 
Blades of Mace, a litthe Whole Pepper, and 
boil it all together, when cold pour it on the 
Fith, and tie it down clofe: 


E2 To 


36 The ExPERIENCED 


To pot. Salmon. 


Let your Salmon be quite frefh, fcale, and 


wath it well, and dry it with a Cloth, fplit it 


up the Back and take out the Bone, feafon it 
well with White Pepper and Salt, a little Nut- 
‘ meg and Mace, let it lie two or three Hours, 
_ then put it in your Pot, with half a Pound of 
Butter, tie it down, put it in the Oven and bake 
it an Hour, when it comes out, lay it on a flat 
Difh that the Oil may run from it, cut it to the 
fize of your Pots, lay it in Layers ‘till you fill 
the Pot, with the Skin upward, put a Board 
over it, lay on a Weight to prefs it till cold, 
then pour. over it clarified Butter; when you 
cut it, the Skin makes it look ribbed, you may 
fend .it to the Table either cut in Slices, or in 
the Pot, 


A fecond Way. 


WHEN. you have any cold Salmon left, take 
the Skin off, and Bone it, then put it in a Mar- 
ble Mortar, with a good deal of clarified But- 
ter, feafon it pretty high with Pepper, Mace 
and Salt, fhread a little Fennel very {mall, beat 
them all together exceeding fine, then put it 
clofe down into a Pot, and cover it with clari- 
fied Butter. 


70 


pill ptemmpmagiecns i ec 


eee oar 


. 
ee anor mili dP eee Sent - 
- tee! oc? a _ 


TT" 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER,.- 37 


To pot Smelts or Sparlings. 


Draw out the Guts with a Skewer under the 
Gills, the Melt or Roe mutt be left in, dry them 


- well with a Cloth, feafon them with Salt, Mace, 


and Pepper, lay them in a Pot with half a 
Pound of melted Butter over them, tie them 
down, and bake them in a flow Oven three 
quarters of an Hour; when they are almoft 
cold take. them out of the Liquor, put them 
into oval Pots, cover them with clarified But- 


_ ter, and keep them for Ufe, 


To pickle Smelts or Sparlings. 


Gut them with a Skewer under the Gills, 
but leave the Melt or Roe in, dry them with a 
Cloth, and fkewer their Tails in their Mouths, 
put Salt in your Water, when it boils put in 
your Fifh for ten Minutes, then take them up, 
put to the Water a Blade or two of Mace, a few 
Cloves, and a little Allegar; boil them all to- 
gether, and when its cold put in your Fifh, and 
keep them for Ufe. 


To collar Eels. 


Case your Eel, cut off the Head, flit open 


| the Belly, take out the Guts, cut off the Fins, 


take out the Bones, lay it flat on the Back, 
grater over it a {mall Nutmeg, two or three 
Blades of Mace beat fine, a little Pepper and 
Salt, ftrew over it a Handful of Pariley thread 

ne, 


38 The ExPERIENCED 


fine, with a few Sage Leaves, roll it up tight 
in a Cloth, bind it well; if it be of a middle 
Size, boil it in Salt and Water three quarters of 
an Hour, hang it up all Night to drain, add to 
the Pickle a Pint of Vinegar, a few Pepper 


' Corns, and aSprig of Sweet Marjoram, boil it 


ten Minutes, and let it ftand ’till the next Day, 


a et 


take off the Cloth, and put your Eels into the -} 


Pickle, you may fend them whole on a Plate, 
or cut them in Slices: Garnifh with green 
Parfley.—Lampreys are done the fame way. 


To pickle Cockles. 


Wasu your Cockles clean, put them in a 
Sauce Pan, cover them clofe, fet them over the 


Fire, fhake them ‘ull they open, then pick. 


them out of the Shells, let the Liquor fettle 
till it be clear, then put in the fame Quantity 
of Wine Vinegar, and a little Salt, a Blade or 
two of Mace, boil them together, and pour it 
on your Cockles, and keep them in Bottles for 
Ufe.—You muft pickle Mufcles the fame way. 


To pot Chars. 


Cur off the Fins, and Cheek-part, of each 
Side of the Head of your Chars, rip them open, 
take out the Guts, and the Blood from the 
Back-bone, dry them well in a Cloth, lay them 
on a Board, and throw on them a good deal of 
Salt, let them fland all Night, then fcrape it 
gently off them, and wipe them exceedin 
well with a Cloth, pound Mace, Cloves an 

| Nutmeg, 


nme ane af a - 


es eee erent: “ee wave 


| 


i 


EnctishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 39 
Nutmeg very fine, throw a little in the Infile 


_ of them, and a good deal of Salt and Pepper 


' on the Outfide, put them clofe down in a deep 
' Pot; with their Bellies up, with plenty of cla- 
ified Butter over them, fet them in the Oven, 


—_—— 


‘and let them ftand for three Hours; when they 


- come out, pour what Butter you can off clear, 


lay a Board over them, and turn them upfide- 
down, to let the Gravy run from them, fcrape 
the Salt and Pepper very carefully off, and fea- 


fon them exceeding well both Infide and Out 
with the above Seafoning, ay them clofe into 
e, 


broad thin Pots for that Purpote, with the Backs 


up, then cover them well with clarified But- 
' ter; Keep them in a cook dry Place. 


To Pot Eels. 


Skin, gut, and clean your Eels, cut them 


in Pieces about four Inches long, then feafon 


them with Pepper, Salt, beaten Mace, and a 
little dried Sage rubbed very fine, rub them 


- well with your Seafoning, lay them in a brown 
Pot, put over them as much Butter as will co- 


ver them, tie them down with a ftrong Paper, 
fet them in a quick Oven for an Hour and a 
Half, take them out, when cold put them into 
{mall Pots, and cover them with clarified 


1}, B. You may pot Lampreys the fame Way. 


To 


40 The ExPERIENCED 


a To pot Lobfters, | 


- ‘Take the Meat out of the Claws and Belly 
of a boiled Lobfter, put it in.a Marble Mortar, 
with two Blades of. Mace, a little- White Pep- 


per and Salt, a Lump of Butter the Size of half. 


an Egg, beat them all together ’till they come 
- to a Pafte, put one half of it into your Pot, 
take the Meat out of the Tail-part, lay it in the 
Middle of your Pot, lay on.it the other half of 
your Pafte, prefs it clofe down, pour over it 
clarified Butter, a quarter of an Inch thick. . 


N. B. To clarify Butter, ._put your Butter into 
a clean Sauce Pan, fet it over a flow Fire, when 
its melted, {cum it, and take .it off the Fire, 
let it ftand a little, then pour it over your Lob~ 
fters, take Care you do not pour in the Milk 
which fettles.to the Bottom of the Sauce Pan. 


To pot Shrimps. 


Pick the fineft Shrimps you can get,. feafon 
them with a little beaten Mace, Pepper, and 
Salt to your Tafte, and with a little cold Butter, 
pound them all together in a Mortar .’till it 
comes to a Pafte, put it down in fmall Pots, 
and pour over them clarified Butter. 


Lo pickle Shrimps. 


Pick the fineft Shrimps you can get, and 
put them into cold Allegar and Salt, put them 
| into 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 41 


| into little Bottles, Cork them clofe, and keep 
them for Ufe. a 


CHAP, -Iff. 
Obfervations on Roafting and Boiling. 


HEN you boil any Kind of Meat, par- 
ticularly Veal,.it requires 2 gieat deal 


_ of Care and Neatnefss be fure your Copper is 


very clean and well tinn’d, fill it as full of fofe 


_ Water as is neceflary, duft your Veal well with 


fine Flour, put it into your Copper, fet it over 


| alarge Fire; fome chufes to put in Milk to 


make it White, but I think it is better without; 
## your Water happens to be the leaft hard it 
curdles the Milk, and gives the Veal a Brown 
Yellow caft, and often hangs in Lumps about 
the Veal, fo will Oatmeal, but by dufling your 
Veal, and putting it into the Water when cold, 
it prevents the foulnefs of the Water from 
hanging upon it; when the Scum begins to 
rife take it clear off, put on your Cover, let it 
boil in Plenty of Water as flow as poffible, ic 


— will make ‘your Veal rife and plump: A Cook 


cannot be guilty of a greater Error than to let 


~ any Sort of Meat boil faft, it hardens the Out- 
_ fide before the Infide is warm, and difcolours 
at, efpecially Veal; for Inftance, a Leg of Veal 


twelve Pounds Weight, will require three 

Hours and a half boiling; the flower it boils 
the whiter and plumper it will be; when you 

boil Mutton. or Beef, obferve to dredge them 
: re we 


42 The ExPpERIENCED 


well with Flour before you. put them into the 
Kettle of cold Water, keep it covered, and 
take off the Scum; Mutton or Beef don’t re- 
quire fo much boiling, nor is it fo great a 
Fault if they are a little fhort, but Veal, Pork, 
or Lamb, is not fo wholefome if they are not 
boiled enough; a Leg of Pork will require 
half an Hour more boiling than a Leg of Veal 
of the fame Weight; when you boil Beef or 
Mutton, you may allow an-Hour for every 
four Pound Weight; it is the beft Way to put 
in your Meat when the Water is cold, it gets 
warm to the Heart before the Outfide grows 
hard, a Leg of Lamb four Pounds Weight will 
require an Hour and half boiling. 


WHEN you roaft any Kind ef Meat, it isa 
very good Way to put a little Salt and Water 


a 


in your Dripping Pan, bafte your Meat a little . 


with it, let it dry, then duft it well with Flour, 
bafte it, with frefh Butter, it will make your 
Meat a better Colour; obferve always to have 


a brifk clear Fire, it will prevent your Meat — 


from dazing, and the Froth from falling, keep 
ita good Diftance from the Fire, if the Meat 
is {corched, the Outfide.is hard, and prevents 
the Heat from penetrating into the Meat, and 
will appear enough before it be little more 
than half done. Time, Diftance Bafting often, 
and a clear Fire, is the beft Method I can pre- 


mm ee en 


{cribe for roafting Meat to Perfection; when | 


the Steam draws near the Fire, it is a Sign of 
its being enough, but you will be the beft 
Judge of that from the Time you put it down. 

Be 


EncuisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 43 


Be careful when you roaft any Kind of Wild 
Fowl, to keep a clear brifk Fire, roaft them a 


light Brown, but not too much; it is a great ° 


Fault to roaft them ’till the Gravy runs out of 
them, it takes off the fine Flavour.—Tame 


Fowls requires more roafting, they are a lon 


Time before they are hot through, and m 

be often bafted to keep up a ftrong Froth, it 
makes them rife better, and a finer Colour.— 
Pigs and Geefe fhould be roafted before a good 
Fire, and turned quick.—Hares and Rabbits 
requires Time and Care, to fee the Ends are 
roafted enough; when they are half roafted, 
cut the Neck Skin, to let out the Blood, or 
when they are cut up, they often appear bloody 
at the Neck. 7 


To roaft a Pig. 


Stick your Pig juft above the Breaft-bone, 
run your Knife to the Heart, when it is dead, | 
put itin cold Water for a few Minutes, then 
rub it over with a little Rofin beat exceeding 
fine, or its own Blood, put your Pig into a 
Pale of {calding Water half a Minute, take it 
out, lay iton a clean Table, pull off the Hair 
as quick as poffible, if it does not come clean 
off, put it in again, when you have got it all 
clean off, wafh it in warm Water, then in two 
or three cold Waters, for fear the Rofin fhould 
tafte, take off the four Feet at the firft Joint, 
make a Slit down the Belly, take out all the 
Entrails, put the Liver, Heart and Lights, to 
the Pettitoes, wath it yell out of cole Water, 

| 2 ry 


44—~=«; The _ExPERIENCED 


dry it exceeding well with a Cloth, hang it 
up, and when you roaft it, put in a little thread. 
Sage, a Tea Spoonful of Black Pepper, two of 
Salt, and a Cruft of Brown Bread, Spit your 
Pig, and few it up, lay it down to a brifk clear 
Fire, with a Pig Plate hung in the Middle of 
the Fire; when your Pig 1s warm, put a Lw 
of Butter in a Cloth, rub your Pig often wit 
it while it is roafting; a large one will take an 
Hour and half: When your Pig is a fine 
Brown, and the Steam draws near the Fire, 
take a clean Cloth, rub your Pig quite dry, 
then rub it well with a little cold Butter, 1t 
‘will help to crifp it, then take a fharp Knife, 
cut off the Head, and take off the Collar, thea 
’ take off the Ears and Jaw-bone, fplit the Jaw 
in two, when you have cut the Pig down the 
Back, which muft be done before you draw the 
Spit out, then lay your Pig Back to Back on 
vour Nifh, and the Jaw on each Side, the Ears 
1 Shoulder, and the Collar at the Shoul+ 
id pour in your Sauce, and ferve it up: 
1 with a Cruft of Brown Bread gratered, 


To make Sauce for a Pig. 


p the Brains a little, then put in a. Tea 
of White Gravy, with the Gravy that 
atof the Pig, a little Bit of Anchovy, 
ar half a Potnd of Butter, with as much 
'8 will thicken the Gravy, a Slice of Le- 
. Spoonful of White Wine, a little Caper 
and Salt, fhake it over your Fire, and 
t into your Difh; fome like Cusranes, 


Enchist HOUSE-KEEPER. 4s 


' boil a few and fend them in a Tea Saucer with 
a Glafs of Currant jelly in the Middle of ie. | 


Ai fecond Way to make Pig Sauce. 


Cur all the Outfides of a Penny Loaf, then 
cut it into very thin Slices, put it into a Sauce 
Pan of cold Water, with an Onion, a few Pep- 

er Corns, and a little Salt, boil ic until it be a 
fine Pulp, then beat it well, put in a quarter of 

a Pound of Butter, and two Spoonfuls of thick 
Cream, make it hot, and put it into a Bafon. 


To drefs a Pig’s Pettitoes. 


TaxeE up the Heart, Liver, and Lights when 
- they have boiled ten Minutes, and fhread them 
pretty fmali, but let the Feet boil till they are 
| pretty tender, then take them out and fplit 
_ them; thicken your Gravy with Flour and But- 
ter, put in your Mincemeat, a Slice of Lemon, 
a Spoonful of White Wine, a little Salt, and 
boil it a little, beat the Yolk of an Egg, add 
to it two Spoonfuls of good Cream, and a lit- 
tle grated Nutmeg, put it in your Pettitoes, 
fhake it over the Fire, but don’t let it boil: Lay 
_ Sippets round your Difh, pour in your Mince- 
meat, lay the Feet over them the Skin-fide up, 
and fend them-to the Table. : 


' To bo:l a Goole with Onion Sauce. 


TAKE your Goofe ready drefs’d, finge it and 
pour over it a Quart of boiling Milk, let it lye 


46 | The ExpPERIENCED 
in it all Night, then take it out and dry it ex- ' 


ceeding well with a Cloth, feafon it with Pep- 
per and Salt, chop fmall a large Onion, a 
Handful of Sage Leaves, put them into your 
Goofe, few it up at the Neck and Vent, hang 
it up by the Legs till the next Day, then put 
it into a Pan of cold Water, cover it clofe, and 
let it boil dowly one Hour. 


To ftew Goofe Giblets. - 


Cur your Pinions in two, the Neck in four 
Pieces, flice the Gizzard, clean it well, ftew 
them in two Quarts of Water, or Mutton Broth, 
with a Bundle of Sweet Herbs, one Anchovy, 
a few Pepper Corns, three or four Cloves, a | 
Spoonful of Catchup, and an Onion; when the } 
Giblets are tender, put in a Spoonful of good } 
Cream, thicken it with Flour and Butter, ferve 
them up in a Soup Difh, and lay Sippets 
round it. 


To roaft a Green Goofe. 


WHEN your Goofe is ready drefs’d, put ina 
od Lump of Butter, fpit it, lay it down, 


- fingeit well, duft it with Flour, bafte it well 


with frefh Butter, bafte it three or four differ- 
ent times with. cold Butter it will make the 
Fiefh rife better than if you was to bafte it out 
of the Dripping Pan; if it is a large one it will 
take three quarters of an Hour to roaft it; 
when you think it is cnough, dredge it with 
Flour, bafte it ‘till it isa fine froth, and your 

. Goole 


Enciish’ HOUSE-KEEPER. 47° 


Goofe a nice brown, and difh it up with a lit- 
tle brown Gravy under it: Garnifh with a Cruft 
of Bread grated round the Edge of your Dith. 


To make Sauce for a Green Goofe, 


TaKkE fome melted Butter, put in 2 Spoon- 
ful of the Juice of Sorrel, a little Sugar, a few 
coddled Goofeberties, pour it into your Sauce 
Boats, and fend it hot to the Table. TO 


To -roaft a Stubble “Goofe. 


Cuop a few Sage Leaves, and: two Onions 
very fine, mix them with a good Lump of But- 
ter, a Tea Spoonful of Pepper‘and two of Salt, 
put it in your. Goofe, then fpit it and lay it 
down, finge it well, duft ic with Flour; when 
it is thoroughly hot bafte it with frefh Butter: 
If it be a large one it wilt require an Hour and 
a half before a good clear Fire; when it 1s 
enough, dredge and bafte it, pull out the Spit, 
pour in a little boiling Water. 


To make Sauce for a Goofe, 


7 

PARE, core, and flice your Apples, put them 
in a Sauce Pan, with as much Water as will 
keep them from burning, fet them over a very 
flow Fire, keep them clofe covered till they are 
all of a Pulp, then put in a. Lump ‘of Butter, 
and Sugar to your tafte, beat them well, and 
fend them to the Table in a China Bafon. 


To 


48 The ExpERIENCED 


To boil Ducks with Onion Sauce. 


ScaLp and draw your Ducks, put them in 
warm Water for a few Minutes, then take them 
out, put them in an Earthen Pot, pour over 
them 2 Point of boiling Milk, let them he in 
it two or three Hours; when you take them 
‘out dredge them well with Flour, put them in 
a Copper of cold Water, put on your Cover, 
let them boil flowly twenty Minutes, then. take 
them. out, and fmother them with Onion Sauce. 


. Fo make ‘Onion Sauce.. 


Bory eight or ten large Onions, change the 
Water two or three Times while they are boil- 
ing, when enough, chop them on a board to 
keep them from going a bad Colour, put them 
ina Sauce Pan with a quarter of a Ponnd of 
Butter, two Spoonfuls of thick Cream, boil it - 

a little, and pour it over the Ducks. 


To roaf? Ducks. 


WHEN you-have killed and drawn your 
Ducks, fhread one Gnion, and a few Sage 
Leaves, put them into your Ducks with Pep- 
per and Salt, fpit, finge, and duff them with 
Flour, bafte them with Butter; if your Fire be 
very hot they will be roafted in twenty Mi- 
nutes, the quicker they are roafted the better 
they eat; juft before you draw them, duft them 
with Flour, and bafte them with Butter, put 

them 


Encim: HOUSE-KEEPER. .49 
them on a Dith, have ready yout Gravy made 


of the Gizzards:and Pinions; a large Blade of 


Mace,’ a few. Pepper Coens, .a Spoonful. of 


Catchup, the fame of Browning, a‘Tea Spooa- 
| fal of Lemon Pickle, and.one Onion, ftrain it, 
| ‘pour it on your Dith, and fend Onion Sauce.in 


—rr- 


at 
Lo boil a Turkey with Oyfter Sauce. 
Le® your Turkey have no Meat the Day: be- 


| fore-you kill it, when you are ‘going to kill Ic 


give it a Spoonful of Allegar, it will, make it 
white and eat tender; when you have -killed it 


_ bang it up by the Legs for four or five Days 
_ at leaft, when. you have plucked it draw it at the 


Rump, if you can take the Breaft-bone out 


nicely it will tpok myich ‘better, cut off the 


Legs, put the Ends of the Thighs. into ‘the 
Body of the Turkey, frewer them down, and 


| de them witha String, cur of the Hedd and 
- Neck, then grate a Penny ‘Loaf, chop:a doore 
| or mort of Oyfters fine, thread.a Iinke Lemon 


Peel, Nutmeg, Pépper, arid-Sale to your Palate, 


, mix it up jnto a light Forcemeat ‘with a quare 
_ ter of a Pound’ of Butter, 4-Spoonful oc:.owe 


of Cream, and three Eggs, ftiiif the Craw with. 
it, and. make the reft-into-Balls:arid boil:them, 
few up the Turkey, dredge it well with Fioar, 
put it into a Kettle of cold Water, cover it, and 
fet it over the. Fire, when ‘the §cum’. begins .to 
rife take it off, put on your Cover, let it boil 
very lowly for half an . Hour,” then ‘take. ‘off 
your Kettle, aud keep it clofe covered, if 1t be 
Gey, G Oo 


50 ¥: . The Exrerurenczn....° 


_of .a Middle Size, lét it-ftand’ half an Hour. in 

the hot. Water, :the Steam being kept in :will 
ftew. it: enough, make it rife, keep the Skin 
whole,.tender, ‘and very white; when you dith 
it up; pour over.it a little of your Oyfter Sauce, 
.lay_your Balk round it, and ferve it with the 
reft of your Sauce in a Boat: Garnifh with 
Lemon and Barberries. 


N. B. Obferve to fet on your Turkey in time, 
that at;may ftew as above ; it is.the beft Way 
I évet found to boil one to Perfeétion; when 
-you'are going to-difh it up, fet it over the Fire 


té-make it quite hot. . 
.:.i2°To make Sauce for a Turkey. 

_ As..you open your Oyfters, put 2 Pint into a 
‘Bafon, ‘wafh them out of their Liquor, and 
‘put them in.anather Bafon; when the. Liquor 
1s. fettled, pour ‘it clean off into a Sauce Pan, 
avith a little White:Gravy,.a Tea Spoonful of 
Lemon ‘Pickle, thicken it with Flour.and a 
good :Lump of. Butter, boil’ it three or foyr 
Minutes, put in:.a Spoonful, of good. thick 
€ream, put in your Oyiters, keep fhaking them 
éver the Fire, .’till'they are quite-hot, but don’t 
tee them boil, ic will make them hard andlook 
pote ¢' ene wc bs oa 


™ , nd 


Mp RG ee ty pet ype tt 
OA fecond Way to make Sauce for a Turkey: . 


unturca Scrag-end of a Neck: of Veal in Pieces, 
put them-im a :Sauce Pan, swith.two or three 
. 2 Blades 


EncitisH: HOUSE-KEEPER. 


| Blades of Mace, one Anchovy, a few Sticks 
 Cellery, a litle Ghyan and Salt, a Glafs 
White White, a Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, 
Tex Spoonful of .Mufhroom ‘Powder or Catc 
_ up! a Quart of Water, put on your Cover; a 
| lee it boil until i be reduced.to a Pint; ft: 
it; and thicken it with a quarter of a Pound 
Butter rolled in Flour, boil-it ‘a. little, put 
_ aSpoonful of: thick Cream, ‘and pour it -o 
the Turkey. — o 


| To roaft a Turkey. 


WHEN you ‘have drefled: your ‘Turkey. .as | 
fore, trufs its Hdad down to,the Legs, then ma 
ydur'Forcemeat, take the Crumbs’ of .a Pén 
| Loaf, a quarter.of a Pound of Beef Suit thre 

fine, .a little Saufage-meat .or Veal {¢raped a 
pounded exceeding’ fine, Nutmeg, Pepper, a 
Sale to-your Palate;:. mix it up lightly-with th: 

Eggs, ftuff the Craw with it, {pit it, and lay 
_ down a:good .diftance from the Fire, keep 
_ dear and brifk, finge, duft, and. bafte it feve 
times with cold Butter, it :makes >the) Fre 
fronger than bafting it with the hot out of 't 
Dripping Pan, and makes the Turkey mfe'b 
ter; when it is dnough: froth ic up.as befo 
dith it up, pour on your Difh the fame Gra 
_ as for the boiled Turkey, only put in Brow 
' ing inftead of Cream: Garnifh with Lem 

and Pickles, and ferve it up; if it be of a M: 

dle Size it will require one Hour and. a qu: 
ter roafting. , - 


) Ga. 


we ee 


52. | The ExPERVENCED . 


yor, en ee sys . Te Pe Et 
“To make Sance for'a Turkey. |. 


Cur the Crufts off a Penny: Loaf, cut: tha 
ref in-thin Slices, put it im cold Water, with a. 
few Pepper Corns, alittle Salt anc} Onion, bod 
it ‘cill-the Bread-is:quite {foft, than: beat itrwell, 

t itx: 2 quarteriof.a. Pound af Baitter; wn. 
Spoontals of thick Cream, and pint’ st: mig. a 
Bafon, rr 


abo: Fowls, 


 . Waew You have: plucked" r Fowls, draw 
. thénr:at- the Rump, cut off the. Heat, Neck 
and Ldgs, take the Breaft-bone. very cardfully 
out, fkewer them-with the End of thew Legs 
ih-the Body, :ne them. round with a Sering, 
finge,.: and duft therm well with Flour, . pet 
them in a Kettle of cold Waser, cover it cote, 
fec ic om the Fire,:-when the Scum’ begins to 
rife; take it off, put oh your Cover, and let 
them boil very flowly. twenty Minutes, take. 
them off, cover them clofe,; and the Heat of 
the Water will- flew them enough m half an 
Hour; it keeps the Skin whole, and they wall 
be both whiter and plumper than if they had. 
boiled faft; when’ you take them up, drain. 


them, pour over them White Sauce, or meltez 


Bureer, 
Fo make White Sauce for Fowls. 
Take a Scrag of Veal, the Necks of the 


Fowls, or any Bits of Mutton or Veal you 
have, 


EncLisH’ HOUSE-KEEPER. SZ. 


' have, put them in a Sauce Pan, with a Blade 
_or two of Mace, a few Black Pepper Corns, 


one Anchovy, a Head of Cellery, a Bunch of 
Sweet Herbs, -a Shte of :the End of a-Lamiin, 

tim aQuart af Water, cover it clofe,. let it 

eh tall it 19 -reduced to half a Pint, ftrain ic, 
and thicken it wits) a quarter of a Pound of 
Bueter, mixed with. Flour, boil it five or. fix 
Minutes, put in. two Spoonfuls of pickled 
Mufhrooms, mix the Yolks of two Eggs witli 
a Fea Cup full of godd Cream, and a ‘litle 
Natmeg, put it in your Sauce, keep thaking it 
over the Fire, but don’t let it boi, a 


To reaft large. Fowls, 


Faus. your Fowls when they are ready 
t them down to a good Fire, finge; 


. daft, ‘and bate them well with Butter, they 


—_ 


will] be near an Hour in roafting, make a Gravy: 
of the Necks and Gizards, ftrain it, put in a 
Spoonful of Browning; when you difh them 
up, pour the Gravy into the Dith, ferve them 
up with Egp Sauce, ina Boat. 
| To make Egg Sauce. 
Born two Egyps hard, half chop the Whites, 
then putin the Yolks, chop them both toge-~ 
ther, but not very fine, put them into a quar- 


ter of a Pound of good melted Butter, and 
put it in a Boat. 


To 


54. . "The. EXPERIENCED © 
To boil young Chickens. — , 


Pur your Chickens in fcalding Water, as 
foon' as. the Feathers will flip off, take them. 
out, or it will make the Skin hard and break, 
when you have.-drawn them, lay them in { 
fkimed :Milk: for..two Hours, then trufs.them’ | 
with. their, Héads on their Wings, finge, and 
duft them well with Flour, put them in cold 
Water, cover them ¢clofe, fet them over a very 
flow: Fire,. take: off the Scum, let them. boil 
flowly for fivé:ar fix Minutes, take. them: off 
the Fire, keep them clofe covered in the Water 
for half an Honr, it will ftew them. enough, 
and make them both white and plump; when 
you-are going: to difh them,. fet them over the 
Fire to make them hot, drain them; pour over 
them White Sauce made the fame Way as for 
the boiled Fowls. Oe, | 


~ +. To roaf young Chickens. 


WHEN you kill. young Chickens, -pluck them 
very carefully, draw them, only cut off the 
Claws, trufs them and put them down to a 
good Fire, finge, duft, and bafte them with 
Butter; they will take a quarter of an Hour 
roafting, then Froth them up, lay them on 
your Difh, pour Butter and Parfley in the Dith, 
and ferve them up hot. mo, 


To 


— ir 


ExcLisn’ HOUSE-KEREPER. ' 5; 
To roaft Pheafahts or Partridges. 
WHEN you roaft Plieafants’ or Partridges, 


Keep them at a good Diftance from the Fire, 
duft .them, and.bafte them often with frefh 


Butter; if your Fire is good, half an Hour will 


roaft.them, put a little Gravy in the Dith, 


made of..a Scrag of ‘Mutton, a. Spoonful of 


Catchup, the fame of Browning, and a Tea 


. Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, ftrain.it, difh them 
- up, with Bread Sauce, in a Bafon, made the 


fame Way as for the boiled Turkey. 


N. B. When a Pheafant is roafted, flick Fea- 
thers on the Tail before you fend it to the 
Table.  - | 


To roaft Ruffs and Rees. | 


TueEse Birds I never met with but in Lin- 
colnihire, the beft Way to feed them is with 
White Bread. boiled in Milk, they muft have 
feparate Pots, for two will. not eat out of one, 
they will be fat in eight or ten Days; when 
you kill them, flip the Skin off the Head and 
Neck with the Feathers on, then pluck and 
draw them; when you roaft them, put them 
a good Diftance from the Fire, if .the Fire be 
good, they will take about twelve Minutes, 
when they are roafted, flip the Skin on again 
with the Feathers on; fend them up with 
Gravy under them, made the fame as for the 

re *  * +; : Pheafant, 


6‘ . | The Exserranczo . 


Pheafant, and Bread Sauce, in a Boat, or crifp 


Crumps of Bread round the Edge of ghe Dith. 
_ To rouft Woodcocks or Snipes, « 


' Prucx them, but don’t draw them, put 
them on a fmall Spit, duft, and bafte them 
well with Butter, toaft a few Slices of 2. Penny 
‘Loaf, put them on a clean. Plate; and fet 
under the Birds while they are roafting, if the 
Fire be good, they will about ten Minutes 
roafting, when you draw them lay them upon 
the Toafts.on the Difh, pour melted Butter 
round them, and ferve them up. 


To roaft Wild Ducks.or T eal. 


WHEN your Ducks are ready dreffed, put in 
them a fmal] Onion, Pepper, Salt, and a Spoon- 
ful of Red Wine, if the Fire be good, they 
will roaft in twenty Minutes, make Gravy of 
the Necks and Gizzards, a Spoonful of Red 
Wine, half an Anchovy, a Blade or two of 
Mace, a Slice of an End of a Lemon, one O- 
nion, and a litle Chyan Pepper, boil ic ‘till it is 
wafted to half a Pint, ftrain it through a Hair 
Sieve, put in a Spoonful of Browning, pour 
iton your Ducks, ferve them up with Onion 


Sauce, in a Boat: Garnifh your Difh with 


Rafpings of Bread.. 
To boil Pidgeons. : 
ScaLp your Pidgeons, draw them, take the 


Craw clean out, wafh them in feveral Waters, 
cut 


2, 0 Rg ere Se tepappaenses = 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 57 


- cut off the Pinions, turn the Legs under the 


Wings, dredge them, and put themi in foft cold 
Water, boil them™very flowly a quarter of an 
Hour, difh them up, pour over them good 


melted Butter, lay round them a little Brocoli, 


in Bunches, fend Butter and Parfley in a Boat. 
To roaft Pidgeons. 
Wuen you have dreffed your Pidgetms as 


before, roll a good Lump of Butter in chopped 
' Parfley, with Pepper and Salt, put it in your 


Fidgeons, fpit, duft, and bafte them, if the 
Fire be good, they will be raafted in twenty 
Minutes, when they are enough lay round 
them Bunches of Afparagus, with Parfley and 


_ Butter for Sauce. 


To roaft Latks. 


Pur a Dozen of Larks on a Skewer,, tie it to 


_ the Spit at boch Ends, dredge and bafte them, 


tet them roaft ten Minutes, take the Crumb | 


_ of a Half-penny Loaf, with a Piece of Butter 
_ the Size of a Walnut, put it in a Toffing Pan, 


| them wit 


and fhake it over a gentle Fire ’till they area ~ 
light Brown, lay uhem betwixt your Birds, and 
pour over them a little melted Butter. 


To boil Rabbits. 


WHEN You have cafed your Rabbits, fkewer 
their Heads ftraight up, the Fore- 


Legs brought down, and the Hind-legs 


firaig ht, 


« 
58 The ExPERIENCED 


ftraight, boil them three quarters of an Hour 
at leaft, then fmother them with Onion Sauce, 
made the fame as-for boiled Ducks, pull out 
the Jaw-bones, ftick them in their Eyes, put 
a Sprig of Myrtle or Barberries in their Mouths, 
and ferve them up. a 


To roaft Rabbits.. 


_Wuen you have‘cafed your Rabbits, fkewer 
their Heads with their Mouths upon their 
Backs,. ftick their Fore-legs into their Ribs, 
fkewer the Hind-legs double, then make a 
Pudding for them of the Crumb of half a 
Penny Loaf, a little Parfley, Sweet Marjoram, 
Thyme, and Lemon Peel, all fhread fine, Nut- 
meg, Pepper and Salt to your Tafte, mix them 
up into a light Stuffing, with a quarter of a 
Pound of Butter, a little good Cream, and two 


Eggs, put it into the Belly, and few them up, | 


dredge, and bafte them well with Butter, roaft 
them near an Hour, ferve them up with Parfley 
and Butter for Sauce, chop the Livers and lay 
them in Lumps round the Edge of your Dith, 


ne To roaft a Hare. 


- SKEWER your Hare with the Head upon one 

Shoulder, the Fore-legs flicked into the Ribs, 
the Hind-legs double, make your Pudding of 

the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, a quarter ‘of a 

Pound of Beef Marrow or Suet, and a quarter 

of a Pound of Butter, fhread the Liver, a Sprig 
or two of Winter Savory, a little Lemon Peel, 

: one 


| 


ExctisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 59 


one Anchovy, a little Chyan Pepper, half a 
Nutmeg gratered, mix them up in a light 
Forcemeat, with a Glafs of Red Wine, andtwo 
Eggs, put itm the Belly of your Hare, few it 
up, put a Quart of good Milk in your Drip- 
ping Pan, bafte your Hare with it ’till it is re-. 
duced to half a Gill, then duft, and batte it 
well with Butter; if it be a large one, it will 
require an Hour and a half roafting. 


To boil a Tongue. 


Ir your Tongue be a dry one, fteep it in 
Water all Night, then boil it three Hours, if 
you would have it eat hot, ftick it with Cloves, 
rub it over with the Yolk of an Egg, ftrew 
Over it Bread Crumbs, bafte it with Butter, fet 
it before the Fire ’till it is a light Brown; when 
you difh 1t up, pour a little Brown Gravy, or 

ed Wine Saucé, mixed the fame Way as for 
Venifon, lay Slices of Currant Jelly round it. 


N. B. If it be.a pickled one, only wath it 


~ Out of Water. 


To boil a Ham. 


STEEP your Ham all Night in Water, then 
boil it; if it be of a middle Size, it will take 
three Hours boiling, and a fmall one two 
Hours and a half; when you take it up, pull 
off the Skin, and rub it all over with an Egg, 


_ ftrew on Bread Crumbs, bafte it with Butter, 


fet it to the Fire ’till it be a light Brown; if it 
: H 2 be 


a | 


60 -> The ExpERIENCED 


be to eat hot, garnifh with Carrots, and ferve 
jt up. 


To roaft a Haunch of Venifon, 


Wuen you have fpitted your Venifon, lay 
over it a large Sheet of Paper, then 3 thin 
common Pafte with another Paper over it, tie 
it well to keep the Pafte from falling, if it be 
a large one it will take four Hours roafting ; 
when it is enough take off the Paper and Patte, 
‘duft it well with Flour, and bafte it with Byt- 
ter; when it is a light Brown difhit up with 
Brown Gravy in your Difh, or Currant Jelly 
Sauce, and fend fome in a Boat. 


To broil Beef Stakes. 


Cur your Stakes off a Rump of Beef about 
half an Inch thick, let your Fire be clear, rub 
- your Gridiron well with Beef Suit, when it is 
hot, lay them on, let them broil until they be- 


in to Brown, turn them, and when the other | 


Ride is Brown, lay them on a hot Difh, with a 
Slice of Butter betwixt every Stake, fprinkle a 
little Pepper and Salt over them, let them ftand 
two or three Minutes, then Slice a Shalot (as 
thin as poffible) into a Spoonful of Water, lay 
on your Stakes again, keep turning them ‘till 
they are enough, put them on your Difh, pour 
the Shalot and Water amongft them, and fend 
them tothe Table. = 


A 


EnctishH HOPSE-KEEPER, 6; 


MA very good Way to fry Beef Stakes. 


_ Cur yourStakes as for broiling, put them into 
a Stew Pan with a good Lump of Butter, fet 
them over a very flow Fire, keep turning them 
‘till the Butter is become a thick white Gravy, . 
pour it into a Bafon, and put more Butter toa 
them; when they are almoft enough, pour all 
the Gravy into your Bafon, and put more But- 
ter into your Pan, fry them a light Brown over 
a quick Fire, take them out of the Pan, put 
them in a hot Pewter Dith, Slice a Shalot 
among them, put a little an your Gravy that 
was drawn from them, and pour it hotu 
them: I think this is the beft Way ef drefling 
Beef Stakes. Half a Pound of Butter will 
drefs a large Difh, - 


Zo drefi Beef Stakes 2 common Way, 


Fry your Stakes in Butter a good Brown, 
then put in half a Pint of Water, an Onion 
fliced, a Spoonful of Walnut Catchup, a little 
Caper Liquor, Pepper, and Salt, cover them 
_ dlofe with a Difh, and let them flew gently; 
- when they are enough, thicken the Gravy 
with Flour and Butter, and ferve them up. 


To broil Mutton Stakes. 


Cur your Stakes half an Inch thick, when 
your Gridiroa is hot, rub it with frefh Suit, lay 
on your Stakes, keep turning shem as quick as . 

poffible, 


62 The ExpERtENCED 


poffible, if you don’t take great Care the Fat 
that drops from the Stakes will fmoak them; 
when they are enough, put them into a hot 
Difh, rub them well with Butter, Slice a Sha- 
lot'very thin into a Spoonful of Water, pour 
it on them with a Spoonful of Mufhroom 
Catchup and Salt, ferve them up hot. 


To broil Pork Stakes, 7 


OsseERvE the fame as from.the Mutton 
Stakes, only Pork requires more broiling; when 
they are enough, put in a little good Gravy, 
a little Sage rubbed very fine, ftrew it over 
them, it gives them a fine Tafte. 


To hafb Beef. 


Cur your Beef in very thin Slices, take a lit- 
tle of your Gravy that run from it, put it in- 
to a Tofling Pan with a Tea Spoonful of Le- 
mon Pickle, a large one of Walnut Catchup 
the fame of Browning, flice a Shalot in, an 
put it over the Fire; when it boils put in your 
Beef, fhake it over the Fire ’till it be quite hot, 
the Gravy is not to be thickened,’ flice in a 
{mall pickled Cucumber: Garnith with fcraped 
Horfe-radifh or pickled Onions. 


To hafh Venifon. 


Cut your Venifon in thin Slices, put a large 
Glafs of Red Wine into a Toffing Pan, a Spoon~ 
ful of Mufhrom Catchup, the fame of Brown- 

ing, 


Enctish- HOUSE-KEEPER. 63 


ing, an Onion ftuck with Cloves, and half .an 
Anchovy chopped fmall; when it boils, put in 
your Venifon, let it boil three or four Minutes, 
pour it into a Soup Dith, and lay round it Cur- 
rant Jelly or Red Cabbage, 


To hafob Matton. 


Cut your Mutton in Slices, put a Pint of 


_ Gravy or Broth into a Toffing Pan, with one 
_ Spoonful of Mufhroom Catchup, and one of 
' Browning, flice in an Onion, a little Pepper 
and Salt, put it over the Fire, and thicken it 


with Flour and Butter; when it -boils put in 
your Mutton, keep fhaking it ‘till it is tho- 
roughly hot, put itin a Soup Dith and ferve 


it up. 


To bafb Veal, 


CuT your Veal in thin round Shices, the Size 
of a Half Crown, put them into a Sauce Pan, 
with a little Gravy and Lemon Peel cut exceed- 
ing fine, a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, put 
it over the Fire, and thicken it with Flour and 
Butter; when it boils put in your Veal, jutt 
before you difh it up put in a Spoonful of 
Cream, lay Sippets round your Difh and ferve 
it up. | 


Lo warm up Scotch Collops. 
WHEN you have any Scotch Collops left, 


put them into a Stone Jar ‘till you want them, 
a then 


“eo 


64 - The Expertencen | 

then put the jet jrito 2 Pan of boiling Water, 

let it ftand ’till your Collops are quite hot, then 
ur them into a Difh, lay over them a few 

roiled bits of Bacon, and they will eat 2s well 

as freth ones, ; 


To wince Veal. 


Cut your Veal in Slices, then cut ie itt little 
fquare Bits, don’t chop it, put it into a Sauce 
Pan with two or three Spoonfuls of Gravy, a 
Stice of Lemon, a little Pepper and Salt, 2 
good Lump of Butter rolled m Flotr, a Tea 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, and 2 large Spoon- 
ful of Cream; keep fhaking it over the Fire 
rill it boils, but don’t let it borl above a Mi- 
nute, if you do it will make your Veal. eat 
hard: Put Sippets round your Difh and ferve 
it up. 


To haf’ a Turkey. 


Tax off the Legs, cut the Thighs mm two 
Pieces, cut off the Pinions and Breaft in pretty 
lerge Pieces, take off the Skin or it wil Eve 
the Gravy a greafy Tafte, put it mto a Stew 
Pan, with a Pint of Gravy, 2 Tea Spoonful of 
Lemon Pickle, a Slice off the End of a Lemon; 
and a little beaten Mace; boil your Turkey fix 
or feven Minutes, (if yoy boil it any longer it 
will make it hard) then put it on your Dith, 
thicken your Gravy with Flour and Butter, 
mix the Yolks of two Eggs with a Spoonful 
of thick Cream, put it in your Gravy, fhake it 

ever 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 65 
over x ur Fire ‘till it is quite hot, but don’t let 
it bon, ftrain it, and pour it over your Turkey: 
Lay Sippets round, ferve it up, and garnifh 


- with Lemon or Pariley. 


To bafb Fowls. 


Cur up your Fowl as for eating, put it in a 


Toffing Pan, with half a Pint of Gravy, a Tea 


Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a littke Mufhroom 
Catchup, a Slice of Lemon, thicken it with 
Flour and Butter; juft before you difh it up 


_ put in a Spoonful of good Cream: Lay Sippets 


round your Difh and ferve it up. 


“To hafb a Woodcock, or Partridge. 


Cut your Woodcock up as for eating, work 
the Entrails very- fine with the Back of a Spoon, 
mix it with a Spoonful of Red Wine, the fame 
of Water, half a Spoonful of Allegar, cut an 


| Onion in Slices, and pull, it into Rings, roll a 
little Butter in Flour, put’ them all in your 
- Toffing Pan, and fhake it over. the Fire ‘till it 


boils, then put in your Woodcock, and when 
itis thoroughly hor, lay it in your Difh with 
Sippets round it, ftrain the Sauce over the 
Woodcock, and lay on the Onion in Rings; it 
is a pretty Corner Difh for Dinner or Supper. 


To hafb a Wild Duck. 


Cur up your Duck as for eating, put it ina 


| Tofling Pan, with a Spoonful of good Gravy, 
j the 


66 The ExpERIENCED ° 


the fame of Red Wine, a little of your Onion 
Sauce, or an Onion fliced exceeding thin; ‘wheit 
it has boiled two or three Minutes, lay the 
Duck in your Difh, pour, the Ggavy over it, # 
muft not be thickened, “you may add a Tea 
Spoonful of Caper Liquor, or a little Browning. 


To hafb a Hare. 


Cur your Hare in fmafl Pieces, if you have 
any of the Padding left, rub it fmall, put to ie 
4 large Glafs of Red. Wine, the fame Quantity 
of Water, half an Anchovy chopped fmall, an 
Orion ftuck with four Cloves, a quarter of 4 
Pound of Butter rolled in Flour, fhake them 
altogether over a flow Fire, ‘till your Hare 1s 
thoroughly hot, it is a bad Cuftom to let any 
Kind of Hafh boil longer, (it makes the Meat 
to eat hard) fend your Hare to the Table ina 
deep Difh, lay Sippets round it, but .take out 


the Onion and ferve it up. 


To boil Cabbage. 


Curt off the Outfide Leaves, and cut it in Quar- 
ters, pick it well, and wafh it clean, boil it m 
a large Quantity of Water, with Plenty of Salt 
in it; when it is tender and a fine light Green, 
lay it on a Sieve to drain, but don’t {queeze it, 
if you do, it will take off the Flavour; have 
ready fome very rich melted Butter, or chop it 
with cold Butter.—Greens rauft be boiled the 
fame Way. | . 


Zo 


n® 


_EncuisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 67 


To boil a Colly-flower. 


Wasi and clean your Colly-flower, boil it 
in Plenty of Milk and Water, (but no Salt) ’till 
it he tender; when you difh it up, lay Greens 


under it, peur over jt good melted Butter, and 


~ fend it up hor. 


To boil Brocoli in Imitation of Afparagus. 


Tax the Side Shoots of Brocoli, ftrip off the 
Leaves, and with a Penkpife take off all the 
Out-rind up to the Heads, tie them in Bunches, 
and put them in Salp and Water, have ready a 


' Pan of boiling Water, with a Handful of Salt in 


it, boil them ten Minutes, then lay them in 
Bunches, and pour over them good melted Butter. 


To ftew Spinage.  ' 


WasH your Spinage well in feveral Waters, 
put if in a Cujlander, have ready a large Pan 
of boiling Water with a Handful of Salt, put 
it in, let it boil two Minutes, it will take off 
the ftrong earthly Tafte, then put it into a 
Sieve, {queeze it well, put a quarter of a Pound 
of Butter into aTofling Pan, put in your Spin- 
age, keep turning and chapping it with a 


Knife, untibic be quite dry and green, lay jt 


upon a Plate, prefs ic with another, cut in the 
Shape of Sippets or Diagmands, pour round it 
very rich, melted Butter, it will eat exceeding 
I 2 i mild, 


68 -.-. The ExPERIENCED 


mild, and quite a different Tafte from the 
common Way. 


To boil Artichokes. 


‘Ir they are young ones, leave about an Inch ~ 
of the Stalk, put them in a ftrong Salt and 
Water for an Hour or two, then. put them ina 
Pan of cold Water, fet them over the Fire, but 
don’t cover them, it will take off their Colour; 
when you difh them up, put rich melted 
Butter in {mall Cups or Pots, like Rabbits, put 
“them inthe Difh with your Artichokes, and 

fend them up. : : ° 


To boil Afparagus. . 


Scrape your Afparagus, tle them in fmall 
Bunches, boil them. in a large Pan of Water 
with Salt in it; before you difh.them up, toaft 
fome Slices of White Bread, and.dip them in 
the boiling Water, lay the Afparagus on your 
‘Toafts,; pour on them very rich melted Butter, 
and ferve them up hot. — | 


To bol French Beans. 


Cur the Ends of your Beans off, then cut 
them Slant-ways, put them ‘in a ftrong Salt 
and Water, as you do them, let them ftand an 
Hour, boil them in a large Quantity of Water 
with a Handful of Salt in it, they will bea 
fine Green; when you difh them up, pour on 
them melted Batter, and fend them up. 7. 

6 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 69 


To boil Windfor Beans. 


Boi them in a good Quantity of Salt and 
Water, boil and chop fome Parfley, put it in 
good melted Butter; ferve them up with Bacon 
in the Middle if you chufe it. 


To boil Green Peas. 


SHELL your Peas juft before you want them, 
put them into boiling Water, with a little Salt 
and a Lump of Loaf Sugar, when they begin 
to dent in the Middle, they are enough, ftrain | 
them in a Sieve, put a good Lump of Butter 
into a Mug, give your Peas a fhake, put them 
on a Difh, and fend them to the Table.—Boil 
a Sprig of Mint in another Water, chop it fine, 
ane lay it in Lumps round the Edge of your 
Dith. 


Zo boil Parfnips. 


Wasu your Parfnips very well, boil them 
‘all they are foft, then take off the Skin, beat 
them in a Bow! with a little Salt, put to them 
a little Cream and a Lump of Butter, put them 
in a Toffing Pan, let them boil ’till they are 
like a light Cuftard Pudding, put them on a 
Plate, and fend them to the Table. 


CHAP, 


70 The ExrpgRiENcED 


CHAP. W. 
Obfervatians on Made Dithes. 


WE careful the Toffing Pan is well tinned, 
B uite clean, and not gritty, and put every 
Ingredient into your White Sauce, and have 
it of a proper thicknefs, and well boiled, be- 
fore you put in Eggs and Cream, for they will 
not add much to the thicknefs, nor fur them 
with a Spoon after they are in, nor fet your 
Pan on ‘he Fire for it will gather at the Bot- 
tom and be in Lumps, but hold your Pan 4 
good Height from the Fire, and keep fhaking 
_ the Pan round one Way, it will keep the Sauce 
from curdling, and be fure you don’t let it 
boil; it is the beft Way to take up your Meat, 
Collops, or Hafh, or any other Kind of Dith 
you are making, with a Fith Slice, and ftrain 
your Sauce upon it, for it is almoft impoffible 
to prevent little Bits of Meat from mixing with 
the Sauce, and by this Method the Sauce will 
look clear. | , Se, 


In the Brown Made Difhes take fpecial Carg 


no Fat is on the Top of the Gravy, but fkim_ 


at clean off, and that it be of a fine Brown, 
and tafte of no one Thing particular; if you 


ufe any Wine put it in fome Time before your 


Difh is ready, to take off the rawnefs, for no- 
thing can give a Made Difh a more difagree- 
able Tafte than raw Wine, or frefh Anchovy: 
When you ufe fried Forcemeat Balls, put them 

on 


wee. 2 ol yy Renae. nec en 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 91 


ona Sieve to drain the Fat from them, and 
never let them boil in your Sauce, it will give 
ita greafy look, and foften the Balls; the beft 
Way is to put them in after your Meat is 
difhed up. 


You may ufe pickled Mufhrooms, Artichoke 
Bottoms, Morels, Truffles, and Forcemeat 
Balls in almoft every Made Difh, and in feve- 
ral, you may ufe a Roll of Forcemeat inftead 
of Balls, asin the Porcupine Breaft of Veal, 
and were you can ufe it, it is much handfomer 
than Balls, efpecially in a Mock Turtle, col- 

lared or raggooed Breaft of Veal, or any large 
_ Made Dith. | , 


To drefs a Mock ‘Turtle. 


Taxe the largeft Calf’s Head you can get, 
with the Skin on, put it in fcalding Water, 
all you find the Hair will come off, clean it 
‘well, and wafh it in warm Water, and boil 
it three quarters of an Hour, then take it out 
of the Water and flit it down the Face, cut off 
all the Meat along with the ‘Skin as clean from 
the Bone as you can, and be careful you don’t 
break the Ears off, lay it on a flat Difh, and 
ftuff the Ears with Forcemeat, and tie them 
tound with Cloths, ‘take the Eyes out, and pick 
all the reft of the Meat clean from the Bones, 
putit in a Tofling Pan, with the niceft and 
fatteft Part of ‘another Calf’s Head, without 
the Skin on, boiled as long as the above, 
and three Quarts of Veal Gravy, lay the Skin 

. , in 


tac Si — 


72 | Fhe ExPpERIENCED- 


in the Pah on the Meat ‘with the Flefh Side up, 
cover the Pan clofe, and let it ftew over a mo- 
derate Fire one Hour, then put in three Sweet 
breads fried a light Brown, one Ounce of Mo« 
rels, the fame of Truffles, five Artichoke Bot- 
toms boiled, one Anchovy boned and chopped 
{mall, a Tea Spoonful of Chyan Pepper, a Hit- 
tle Salt, half a Lemon, three Pints of Madeira | 
Wine, two Meat Spoonfuls of Mufhroom | 
Catchup, one of Lemon Pickle, half a Pint of 
Mufhrooms, and let them ftew flowly half an 
Hour longer, and thicken it with Flour and 
Butter; have ready the Yolks of four Eggs 
boiled hard,. and the Brains of both Heads 
boiled, cut the Brains the Size of Nutmegs, | 
and make a rich Forcemeat, and {pread it on 
the Caul'of a Leg of Veal, roll it up and boil 
it in a Cloth one. Hour; when boiled, cut it in 
three Parts, the Middle largeft, then take upthe : 
Meat into the Difh,and lay the Head over it with :‘ 
the Skin Side up, and put the largeft Piece of 
Forcemeat between the Ears, and make the 
Top of the Ears to meet round it; (this is called 
‘the Crown of the Turtle,) the other Slices of 
the Forcemeat lay oppofite to each other at the 
narrow End, and lay a few of the Truffles, 
Morels, Brains, Mufhrooms, Eggs, and Arti- 
choke Bottoms upon the Face and round it, 
firain the Gravy boiling hot upon it, be as 
quick in difhing it up as poflible for it foon 
goes cold. _ 


Mock 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 73 


Mock Turtle a fecond Way. 


Dress the Hair of a Calf’s Head as before, 
boil ic half an Hour, when boiled cut it in 
Pieces half an Inch thick, and one Inch and 


_ahalf long, put it into a Stew Pan with two 
— Quarts of Veal Gravy, and Salt to your Tatte; 


let it ftew one Hour, then put in a Pine of 
Madeira Wine, half a Tea Spoonful of Chyan 
Pepper, Truffles and Morels one Ounce each, 
three or four Artichoke Bottoms boiled and cut 
in Quarters; when the Meat begins to look 
clear and the Gravy ftrong, put in half a Le- 


mon, and thicken it with Flour and Butter, 


ere eee ee ee 


fry a few Forcemeat Balls, beat four Yolks of 
hard boiled Eggs in a Mortar very fine, with 
a Lump of Butter, and make them into Balls 
the Size of Pigeons Eggs; put the Force-meat 
Balls and Eggs in after you have difhed it up. 


N. B. A Lump of Butter put in the Water 
makes the Artichoke Bottoms boil White and 
fooner. 


To make a Calf’s Head hajh. 


CLeaNn your Calf’s Head exceeding well, and 
boil it a quarter of an Hour; when it is cold 
cut the Meat in thin broad Slices, and put it 
into a Tofling Pan, with two Quarts of Gravy ; 
and when it has ftewed three quarters of an 
Hour,add to it oneAnchovy,a little beaten Mace, 
and Chyan to your Tafte, two Tea Spoontuls 

, K oO 


74 The EXPERIENCED 


of Lemon Pickle, two Meat Spoonfuls of Wal- 
nut Catchup, half an Ounce of Truffles and 
Morels, a Slice or two of Lemon, a Bundle of 
Sweet Herbs, and a Glafs of White Wine, mix 
a quarter of a Pound of Butter with Flour, 
and put it in a few Minutes before the Head 
is enough, take your Brains and put them into 
hot Water, it will make them {kin fooner, and 
beat them fine in a Bafon, then add to them 
two Eggs, one Spoonful of Flour, a bit of Le- 
mon Peel fhread fine, chop fmall a little Par- 
fley, Thyme, and Sage, beat them very well 
together, ftrew in a little Pepper and Salt, then 
drop them in little Cakes into a Panful of boil- 
ing Hog’s-lard, and fry them a light Brown, 
then Jay them on a Sieve to drain; take 
-your Hafh out of the Pan with a Fith Slice, 
and Jay it on your Difh, and ftrain your Gravy 
over it, lay upon it a few Mufhrooms, Force- 
meat Balls, the Yolks of four Eggs boiled 
hard, and the Brain Cakes: Garnifh with Le- 
mon and Pickles. 
It is: proper for a Top or Side Dith. 


To drefs a Calf’s Head Suprize. 


Dress off the Hair of a large Calf’s Head 
as directed in the Mock Turtle, then take a 
fharp-pointed Knife and raife off the Skin, . 
with as much of the Meat fromthe Bones as 

ou poflibly can get, that 1t may appear like 
y whole Head when it is ftuffed. and be care- 
ful you don’t cut the Skin in holes, then fcrape 
a Pound of fat Bacon, the Crumb of two Pen- 


ny 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 78 


ny Loaves, grater a {mall Nutmeg, with Salt 
Chyan Pepper, and fhread Lemon Peel to 
your Tafte, the Yolks of fix Eggs well beat, 
mix all up ‘into a rich Force-meat, put a lit- 
tle into the Ears, and ftuff the Head with the 
Remainder, have ready a deep narrow Pot that 
it will juft go in, with two Quarts of Water 
half a Pint of White Wine, two Spoonfuls of 
Lemon Pickle, the fame of Walnut and Mutb- 
yoom Catchups, one Anchovy, a Blade or two 
of Mace, a Bundle of Sweet Herbs, a little Salt 
and Chyan Pepper, lay a coarfe Pafte over it 
to keep in the Steam, and fet it ina very quick 
Oven two Hours anda half; when you take . 
it out lay your Head in a Soup Difh, fkim the 
Fat clean off the Gravy, and ftrain it through 
a Hairy Sieve into a Toffing Pan, thicken it with 
a Lump of Butter roll’d in Flour; when it has 
boil’d a few Minutes, put in the Yolks of fix 
Eggs well beat, and mixed with half a Pint of 
Cream, but don’t let it boil, (it will curdle the 
Eggs;) you muft have ready boiled a fewForce- 
meat Balls, half an Ounce of Truffles and Mo- 
rels, it would make the Gravy too dark a Co- 
lour to ftew them in it: Pour your Gravy over 
your Head, and garnifh with the Truffles, Mo- 


 ‘yels, Force-meat Balls, Mufhrooms, and Bar- 


| 


berries, and ferve itup. 
This is a handfome Top Difh at a {mall Expence. 


2 To grill a Calf's Head. 
Wasu yourCalf’s Head clean,and boil italmoft 
enough, then take it up and hafh one half, the 
K2 other 


The ExpERIENCED 


r half rub over with the Yolk of an Egg, 
le Pepper and Salt, ftrew over it Bread 
nbs, Parfley chopped fmall, and a little 
ed Lemon Peel, fet it before the Fire and 
» bafting it all the Time to make the Froth 
when it is a fine light Brown, -difh up 
‘Hafh, and lay the grilled Side upon it. 


anch your Tongue, flit it down the Middle, 
lay it on a Soup Plate; {kin the Brains, 
them with a little Sage and Parfley, chop 
1 fine, and mix them with fome melted 
er, and a Spoonful of Cream, make them 
and pour them over the Tongue, ferve 
a up, and they are Sauce for the Head. 


make a Porcupine of a Breatt of Veal. 


oNE the fineft' and largeft Breaft of Veal 
can get,,rub it over with the Yolks of two 
s, {pread it on a Table, lay over it a little 
m cut as thin as poflible, a Handful of 
ley fhread fine, the Yolks of five hard boil- 
iggs chopped fmall, a little Lemon Peel 
fine, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt to your 
e, and the Crumb of a Penny Loaf fteeped 
‘ream, roll the Breaft clofe, and fkewer it 
then cut fat Bacon and the lean of Ham 
has been a little boiled, or it will turn the 
| red, and pickled Cucumbers about two 
1es long to an{wer the other Lardings, _ 
itin rows, firft Ham, then Bacon, thn 
umbers, till they have larded it all over 
Veal; put itin a deep Earthen Pot, with a 

Pint 


ENGLISH © HOUSE-KEEPER. 77 


' Pint of Water, and cover it, and fet it in a 
flaw Oven two Hours; when it comes from the 
Oven fkim-the Fat off, and ftrain the Gravy | 
through a, Sieve into a Stew Pan, put ina Glafs. 
of White Wine, a little Lemon Pickle and 
Caper Liquor, a Spoonful of Mufhroom Catch- 
up, thicken it with a little Butter rolled in 
Flour, lay your Porcupine on the Difh, and 
ur it hot upon it, cut a Roll of Forcemeat 
in four Slices, lay one at each End and 
the other on the Sides; have ready your Sweet- 
_ breads cut in Slices and fried, lay them round 
it with a few Mufhrooms. 
It is a grand Bottom Difh when Game is not 
to be had, 


__N.B. Make the Forcemeat of a few chopped 
- Oyfters, the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, half a 
Pound of Beef Suet fhread fine, and the Yolks 
of four Eggs, mix them well together with 
Nutmeg, Chyan Pepper, and Salt to your Pa- 

late, fpread it on a Veal Caul, and roll it up 
~ clofe like. a collared Eel, bind ic in a Cloth, 
and boil it one Hour. 


To raggooe a Breaft of Veal. 


Har roaft a Breaft of Veal, then Bone it, 
and put it in a Tofling Pan, with a Quart of 
Veal Gravy, one Ounce of Morels, the fame 
of Truffles, ftew it ’till tender, and juft before 

you thicken the Gravy, put in a few Oyfters, 
_ pickled Mufhrooms, and pickled Cucumbers, 
cutin fmal]l fquare Pieces, the Yolks of four 


Eggs 


78 The ExPERIENCED 


Eggs boiled hard, cut your Sweet-bread in 
Slices, and fry it a light Brown, difh up your 
Veal, and pour the Gravy hot over it, lay your 
Sweet-bread round, Morels, Truffles, and Eggs 
upon it: Garnifh with pickled Barberries; this 
is proper for either Top or Side for Dinner, or 
Bottom for Supper. 


To collar a Breaft of Veal. 


Take the fineft Breaft of Veal, Bone it, and 
rub it over with the Yolks of two Eggs, and 
ftrew over it fome Crumbs of Bread, a little 
gratered Lemon, a little Pepper. and Salt, a 
Handful of chopped Pariley, roll it up tight, 
and bind it hard with Twine, wrap it in a 
(Cloth, and boil it one Hour and a half, then 
take it up to cool, when a hittle cold take of 
the Cloth, and clip off the Twine carefully, 
Jeaft you open the Veal, cut it in five Slices, 
lay thers on a Difh with the Sweet- bread boiled 
and cut in thin Slices, and laid round them, 
with ten or twelve Force-meat Balls; pourover 
your White Sauce, and garnifh with Barbere 
ries, or green Pickles, 


The White Sauce muft be made thus:— 
Take a Pint of good Veal Gravy, put to it a 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, half an Anchovy, 
a Tea Spoonful of Mufhroom Powder, or 4 
few pickled Mufhrooms, give it a gentle boil, 
then put in half a Pint of Cream, the Yolks 


of two Eggs beat fine, fhake it over the Fire | 


after the Eggs and Cream is in, but don’t let 
it 


| 


x 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 79 


it boil, it will curdle the Cream; it is proper 
for a Top Dith at Night, or a Side Dith for 
Dinner. : 


Al boiled Breaft of Veal. 


SKEWER your Breaft of Veal, that it will lie 
flat in the Difh, boil it one Hour, (if a large 
one an Hour and a quarter;) make a White 
Sauce as before-mentioned for the collared 
One, pour it over, and garnifh with Pickles. 


A Neck of Veal Cutlets. 


Cur a Neck of Veal into Cutlets, fry them . 


_a fine Brown, then put them in a Toffing Pan, 
and ftew them ‘till tender in a Quart of good 
Gravy, then add one Spoonful of Browning, 
the fame of Catchup, fome fried Force-meat 
Balls, a few Truffles, Morels, and pickled 
Muthrooms, a little Salt, and Chyan Pepper, 
thicken your Gravy with Flour and Butter, 
let it boil a few Minutes, lay your Cutlets in 
the Difh, with the: Top of the Ribs in the 
Middle, pour your Sauce over them, lay your 
Balls, Morels, Truffles, and Muthrooms over 
the Cutlets, and fend it up. 


A Neck of Veal a-la-royal. 


Cur off the Scrag-end and part of the 
Chine Bone to make it lie flat in the Dith, 
then chop a few Muthrooms, Shalots, a little 
Parfley, and Thyme, all very fine, with Pep- 


per 


So  °' The ExpERLENCED 


per and Salt, cut middle-fized Lards of Bacon, 
and roll them in the Herbs, &c. and Lard the 
lean Part of the Neck, put it in a Stew Pan 
with fome lean Bacon or Shank of Ham, and 
the Chine-bone and Scrag cut in Pieces, with 
three or four Carrots, Onions, a Head of Cel- 
lery, and a little beaten Mace, pour in as much 
Water-as will cover it, cover the Pan very 
clofe, and let it ftew flowly for two or three 
Hours ’till tender, then ftrain half a Pint of 
the Liquor out of, the Pan through a_ fine 
Sieve, fet it over a Stove, and let it boil, keep 
ftirring it ’till ic is dry at the Bottom, and of 
a good Brown; be fure you don’t let it burn, 
then add more of the Liquor ftrained free 
from Fat, and keep ftirring it ‘till it becomes 
a fine thick brown Glaze, then take the Veal 
out of the Stew Pan, and wipe it clean, and 
put the larded Side down upon the Glaze, fet 
it over-a gentle Fire five or fix Minutes to take 
the Glaze, then lay it in the Difh with the 
glazed Side up, and put into the fame Stew 
Pan as much Flour as will lie on a Six-pence, 
ftir it about well, and add fome of the Braize 
Liquor, (if any left) let it boil till it is of a 
proper thicknefs, ftrain it and pour it into the 
Bottom of the Difh, fqueeze in a little Juice of 
Lemon, and ferve it up..- : 


Bombarded Veal. 


Cut the Bone nicely out of a Fillet, makea 


Force-meat of the Crumbs of a Penny Loaf, | 


| 


‘half a Pound of fat Bacon fcraped, a litle | 
: Lemon — 


ee -_ Te 


Encuise HOUSE-KEEPER. |. & 


Lethon Peel, or Lemon Thyme, Parfley, two 
or three Sprigs of Sweet Marjoram, one An- 
chovy, chop them all very well, grater a little 
Nutmeg, Chyan Pepper, and Salt to your Pa- 
late, mix all up together with Egg and a little 
Cream, and fill up the Place were the Bone 
came out with the Force-meat; then cut the Fil- 
let actofs, in Cuts. about one Inch one from: 
another all round the Fillet, fill one Nick with 
Force-meat, a fecond with boiled Spinage, that 
1s boiled and well fqueezed, a third with Bread 
Crumbs, chopped Qyfters,; and Beef Marrow, 
then Force-meat, and fill them up as above all 
round the Fillet, wrdp the Caul clofe round it, 
and put it in a deep Pot with a Pint of Water, 
make a coaf{e Pafté to lay over it, to keep the 
Oven from giving it a fiery Tafte; when it 
comes out of the Oven, fkim off the Fat, and 
put the Gravy in a Stew Pan, with .a Spoonful 
of Lemon Pickle, and another. of Mufhroom 
Catchup, two. of Browning, half an Ounce of 
Morels and Truffles, five boiled Artichoke Bot- 
toms cut in Quarters, thicken the Sauce with 
Flour.and Butter, give it a gentle boil, and 
pour it upon the Veal into your Difh. 


To make d Frycando of Veal. 


, Cur Stakes half an Inch thick; and fix Inches: 
long, out of the thick part of.a Leg of Veal, 
lard them with {mall Cardoons, and duft them 
with Flour, put them before the Fire to broila 
fne Brown, then put them into a large Tofling 
Pan with a Quart of good Gravy, and let it 

I ew 


Sz . Fhe ExPERIENCED 


ftew half an Hour, then put in two Tea 
Spoonfuls of Lemon Pickle, a Meat Spoonful 
of Walnut Catchup, the fame of Browning, 
a Slice of Lemon, a little Anchovy, and Chyan, 
a few Morels and Truffles; when your Frycan- 
dos is tender, take them up, and thicken your 
Gravy with Flour and Butter, ftrain it, pkace 
your Frycandos in the Difh, pour your Gravy 
on them: Garnifh with Lemon and Barberries. 
You may lay round them Force-meat Balls 
fried, or Force-meat rolled in Veal Caul, and 
Yolks of Eggs boiled hard. : 


To make Weal Olives. 


_ Cur the thick part of a Leg of Veat in thitt 
Slices, flatten them with the broad Side of 4 
Cleaver, rub them over with the Yolk of an 
Egg, lay over every Piece a very thin Slice o 
Bacon, ftrew over them a few Bread Crumbs, 
a little Lernon Peel, and Parfley chopped fmall, 
Pepper, and Salt, and Nutmeg, roll them up 
clofe and fkewer them tight, then rub them 
with the Yolk of Eggs, and roll them in Bread 
Crumbs and Parfley chopped fmall, put them 
into a Tin Dripping Pan to bake or fr them} 
ther take a Pint af good Gravy, add to ita 
Spooriful of Lemon Pickle, the fame of Wal- 
nut Catchup, and one of Browning, a little 
Anchovy, and Chyan Pepper, thicken it with 
Flour and Butter, fervg them up with Force- 
meat Balls, and ftraii the Gravy hor upor 
them: Garnifh with Pickles, and ftrew over 
them a few pickled Mufhrooms.—You poy 

Fefs 


Enctrish HOUSE-KEEPER, 83 


| drefs Veal Curlets the fame way, but not roll 


m, 


To dref; Scotch Collops white. 
Cur them off the thick part of a Leg of 


- Veal, the fize and thicknefs of a Crown Piece, 
pat a Lump of Butter into a Toffling Pan, and 
. fet tt over a flow Fire, or it will difcolour your 
Collops, before the Pan is hot Jay the Collops 
in, and keep turning them over ’till you fee 
_ the Burter is turned to thick white Gravy; put 
' your Collops and Gravy into a Pot, and fet 
_ them upon the Hearth to keep warm, put cold 
| Batter again into your Pan every Time you fill 
it, and fry them as above, and {fo continue ‘tll 
| you have finifhed; when you have fryed them, 
_ pour the Gravy from them into your Pan, with 


a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, Mufhtoom 
Catchup, Caper Liquor, beaten Mace, Chyan 


_ Pepper, and Salt, thicken with Flour and But- 
' ter, when it has boiled five Minutes, put in the 


Yolks of two Eggs well beat and mixed, with 


a Tea Cup full of rich Cream;. keep fhaking 
| your Pan over the Fire ‘till your Gravy looks 
' Of a fine thicknefs, then put in your Collops 
_ and fhake them, when they are quite hot, put 
_ them on your Difh with Force-meat Balls, ftrew 


' over them pickled Mufhrooms: Garnifh with 


Barberries, and Kidney-beans. 


L 2 | To 


84 The EXPERIENCED 


To drefs Scotch Collops brown. 


Cut your Collops the fame Way as the white 
ones, but brown your Butter before you lay in { 
your Collops, fry them over a quick Fire, fhake | 
and turn rhem, and keep them on a fine Froth; 
when they are a light brown, put them into ] 
a Pot, and fry them as'the White ones; when { 
you have fried them all brown, pour all the j 
Gravy from them into a clean Tofling Pan, } 
with half a Pint of Gravy, made of the Bone 
and Bits you cut the Collops off, two Tea Spoon- 
fuls of Lemon Pickle, a large one of Catchup, 
the fame of Browning, half an Ounce of Mo- | 
rels, half a Lemon, a little Anchovy, Chyan, + 
and Salt to your Tafte, thicken it with Flour } 
and Butter, let it boul five or fix Minutes, then | 
put in your Collops, and fhake them over the j 
Fire, if they boil it will make them hard; } 
when they have fimmered a little, take them 
out with an Egg Spoon, and lay them on your 
Difh, ftrain your Gravy and pour it hot on § 
them, lay over them Force-meat Balls, and lit § 
tle Slices of Bacon curled round.a Skewer and 
boiled, throw a few Mufhrooms over: Garnith 
with Lemion and Barherries, and ferve it up. 


Zo drefs Scotch Collops French Way. 


‘Take a Leg of Veal, and cut your Collops 
pretty thick, five or fix Inches long and’ three 
, Inches broad, rub them over with the Yolk of 

an Ege, put Pepper and Salt, and grate a little 
—_ ‘ Nutmeg 


EncLisH HiUSE-KEEPER. 85 


Nutmeg on them, and a little thread Parfley, 
Jay them on a Eathen Difh, and fet them 
before the Firs, bafte them: with Butter, and let 
them. be a finacbrow, then turh them on the 
other Side, ani rub them as above, bafte and 
brown it the fame Way; when they are tho- 
roughly enoug, make a good Brown Gravy — 
with ‘Truffles aid Morels, difh up your Collops, 
lay Truffles anaMorels, and the Yolks of hard 
boiled Eggs ove them: Garnifh with crifp 


 -Parfley and Lemy, 


Sweet-lreads q-la-daub. | 


Take three of the largeft and, fineft Sweet- 
Breads you can get, put them in a Sauce Pan 
of boiling Water for five Minutes, then take 
them out, and when they are cold, lard them 
with a row down the Middle, with very little 


‘Pieces of Bacon, then arow on:each Side with 


Lemon Peel cut the Size of Wheat Straw, then 
a row on each Side of pickled Cucumbers cut 
very fine, put them in a Toffing Pan with 
good Veal Gravy, a little Juice of Lemon, a 
Spoonful of Browning, ftew them gently a. 


quarter af an Hour; a little before they are 


ready thicken them 'with Flour. and Butter, 
difh them up and pour the Gravy over, lay 
round them Bunches of boiled Cellery or Oyfter 
Patties: Garnifh with ftewed Spinage, green 
curled Parfley, flick a Bunch: of Barberries 1n 
the Middle of each Sweet-Bread. : 
It is a pretty Corner Dith for either Dinner or 


Supper, 
oT Forced 


86 The ExrertWCED 


Forced SweefBrecds’ 


Pur three Sweet-Breads in boilmg Water 
five Minutes, begat the Yok ofan Egg a little, 
and rub it over them with a Father, ftrew on 
Bread Crumbs, Lemon Peel, ast Parfley fhread 
very fine, Nutmeg, Salt, and Pepper to your 
Palate, fet them before the fireto Brown, add to 
them a little Veal Gravy, put+ little Mufhroom 
Powder, Caper Liquor, or Juce of Lemon ang 
Browning, thicken it with Flour and Butter, 
boil it a little and pour it n your Difh, lay in 
your Sweet-Breads, and lay over them Lemon 
Peel in rings, cut like Sraws: Garnifh with 


Pickles 
To fricafey Swect-Breads brown. 


ScaLp three Sweet-Breads, when cold, cut 


them in Slices the’thicknefs of a Crown-piece, | 


dip them in Batter, and fry them in frefh But- 
ter a nice Brown, make a Gravy for them as 
the laft, ftew your Sweet-Breads flowly in the 
Gravy eight or ten Minutes, lay them on your 
Difh, and pour the Gravy over them: Garnifh 
with Lemon or Barberries. . 


To fricafey Sweet-Breads white. 


ScaLp and flice the Sweet-Breads as before, 
put them in a Toffing Pan with a Pint of Veal 
Gravy, a Spoonful of White Wine, the fame 
of Mufhroom Catchup, a little beaten Mace, 

ew 


_ 


.  Enctise HOUSE-KEEPER. 8; 


ftew them a quarter of an Hour, thicken your 
Gravy with Flotr and Butter, a little before 
they are enough; when you are going to difh 
them up, mix the Yolk of an Egg with a Tea 
Cupful of thidk Cream, and a little grated 
Nutmeg, put it into your Toffing Pan, and 
fhake it well over the Fire, but don’t let it boil, 
lay your Swee:-Breads on your Difh, and pour 
| your Sauce ova: them: Garnifh with pickled 
' Red Beet-root ind Kidney-beans. 


To iaggoo Sweet-Breads. 


Rus them oer with the Yolk of an Egg, 
_flrew over then Bread Crambs and Parficy, 
Thyme and Sveet Marjoram {hread fmall, and 
Pepper and Silt, miake a roll of Force-meat 
like a Sweet-jread, and put it in a Veal Caul, 
and roaft theh in a Dutch Oven, take fome 
Brown Gravf, and put to it a little Lemon 
Pickle, Mufltoom Catchup, and the End of a. 
Lemmon, boil'the Gravy, and when the Sweer- 
_ Breads are erpugh, lay them in a Difh, with 
_ the Force-mat in the Middle, take the End of 
the Lemon jut, and pour the Gravy in the 
-*‘Dith, and feve them up. : 
| a 


Tj few a Fillet of Veal. 


Tarr a Jillet of a Cow Calf, ftuff it well 
under the Eder, at the Bone, and quite through 
- tothe Shark, put icin the Overy with a Pint 

of Water under it, ‘tll it x3 a fine Brown, then 
_ ‘put it ina Stew Pan with three Pints of Gra- 
| _ VY> 


| 
| 
| 


) 


~~ ~_— 


838 The ExpERIENCED 


vy, flew it tender, put in a few -Morels, Truf2 
fles, a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a large 
one of Browning, and one of Catchup, and a 


little Chyan. Pepper, thicken: with a Lump of | 


Butter rolled in Flour, difh up your Veal, ftrain | 


your Gravy over, lay round Force-meat Balls; 
Garnifh with Picklesand Lemon. 


J 0.rag.goo a Fillet of: Veal, 


Larp your Fillet and half roift it, then put 
it in a Toffing Pan, with two Quarts of good 
Gravy, cover it clofe and let it flew ’till tender, 
_ then: add one Spoonful of White Wine; one of 

Browning, one of Catchup, a Tea Spoonful of 
Lemon Pickle, a httle Caper Lquor, half an 
Ounce of Morels, thicken with ‘lour and But- 
ter, lay round it a few Yolks of Eggs. 


A good Way to drefs a Midcalf. 


Take a Calf’s Heart, ftuff r with good 
Force-meat, and fend it to the Oven in.an 
Earthen Difh with a little Waterunder it, lay 
Butter over it, and dredge it wih Flour, boil 
half the Liver and all the Lights ogether half 
an Hour, then chop them fmall, :nd put them 
in a Toffing Pan with a Pint of Gravy, one 
Spoonful df Lemon Pickle, and oncof Catchup, 
{queezé in half a Lemon, Peppet’, and Salt, 
thicken with a good Piece of Buter rolled in: 
Flour, when you Difh:it up, pourthe minced 
Meat in the Bottom, and have ready fryed a 
fine brown, the other half of the Lixer cut in 

{ thin 


| Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER., 89 


‘thin Slices, and little bits of Bacon, fet the 
Heart in the Middle, and lay the Liver and 
Bacon over the minced Meat, and ferve it up, 


To difguife a Leg of Veal. 


_ Larp the top Side of a Leg of Veal in rows 
with Bacon, and ftuff it well with Force-meat 
tmade of Oyfters, then put it into a large Sauce 
Pan with as much Water as will cover it, put 
on a clofe Lid to keep in the Steam, ftew it 
‘gently ‘till quite tender, then take it up, and 
boil down the Gravy in the Pan to a Quart, 
{kim off the Fat, and add half a Lemon, a 
| Spoonful of Mufhroom Catchup, a little Lemon 
‘Pickle, the Crumbs of half a Penny Loaf grat- 
‘ed exceeding fine, boil it in your Gravy ‘till 
it looks thick, then add half a Pmt of Oyfters, 
if not thick enough, roll a Lump of Butter in 
‘Flour and put icin, with half a Pint of good 
Cream, and the Yolks of three Eggs, thake 
your Sauce over the Fire, but don’t let it boil 
after the Eggs are in left it fhould curdle; put 
your Veal in a deep Dith, and pour the Sauce 
over it: Garnifh with crifped Parfley and fried 
- Oyiters. . 
\tis an excellent Difh for the Top of a large: 
| Table. 


Harrico of a Neck of Mutcon, 


Cut the beft End of a Neck of Mutton into 
Chops, in fingle Ribs, flatten them and fry 
them a light Brown, then put them into a large ~ 
! M Sauce 


go. The ExPRRIENCED 


Sauce Pan with two Quarts of Water, a large 
Carrot cut im Slices, ‘cut at the Edges. life 
Wheels ; when they -have flewed a quarter of 
an Hour, put in two Turnips cut in fquare 
Dices, the white Part of a Head of Cellery, 
a few Heads of Afparagus, two Cabbage Let- 
tices fried, and Chyan to your Tafte, bor them , 
all together ‘ull they are tender, the Gravy: is } 
not to be thickened; put it into a Tureen, or 

Soup Dith. af 

it is proper for a Top Diath. 


. To drefs a Neck of Mutton éo eas lske Venifon, | 


Cut a large Neck, before the Shoulder s 
' taken off, broader than ufual, and the Flap of ¢ 
the Shoulder with it, to make it look hand 
fomer; ftick your Neck all over in little Holes , 
with a fharp Penknife, and pour a Bottle of } 
Red Wine upon it, and let it lie in the Wine 
four or five Days, turn and rub it three or four 
Times a Day, then take it our and hang it up { 
for three Days.in the open Air out of the Sun, 
and dry it often with a Cloth to keep it from 
mufting; when you roaft it, bafte it with the 
Wine it was fteeped in if any left, if nos, freth 
Wine, put white Paper three or four foulds to 
keep in the Fat, roaft it thoroughly, and then 
take off the Skin, and Froth it nicely; and ferve 
it up. . 


16 


Enchish HOUSE-KEEPER. 91 ~ 


Lo make Fronch Steaks of a Neck of Mutton. 


} Lev your Mutton be very good and large, 
and cut off moft part of the fat of the Neck, 
and then cut the Steaks two Inches thick, make ° 
@ large Hole through the Middle of the flethy 
part of every Steak with a Penknife, and ftuif 
at with Force-meat made of Bread Crumbs, 
' Beef Suet, a little Nutmeg, Pepper and Sale, 
mized up with the Yolk of an Egg; when they 
are ftuffed, wrap them in Writing Paper, and 
put them in a Dutch Oven, fet them before the 
¥ire to broil, they will take near an Honr, put 
'@ lice brown Gravy on your Difh, and ferve 
them up in the Papers. : 


A Shoulder of Mutton furprized. 
Har boil a Shoulder, then put it ina Tof- 


fog Pan with two Quarts of good Gravy, four 
Ounces of Rice, a Tea Spoonful of Mufhroom 
Powder, a little beaten Mace, and ftew it one 
Hour, or ‘till the Rice 1s enough, then take up 

our Mutton and keep it hot, put to the Rice 

alf a Pint of good Cream, and a Lump of 
Butter rolled in Flour, fhake it well and boil 
ita few Minutes, lay your Mutton on the Difh 
and pour it over: Garnifh with Barberries or 


Pickles, and fend it up. - 


M2 : To 


92 The ExpERI1 ENCED 


To drefs a Shoulder of Mutton, caled H 
and Chickens. 


Har roaft a Shoulder, then take it up, and 
cut off the Blade at the firft Joint, and both 
the Flaps to make the Blade round, fcore the # 
Blade round in Diamonds, throw a little Pep- } 
per and Salt over it, and fet it in a Tin Oven to 

roil, cut the Flaps and the Meat off the Shank 
in thin Slices into the Gravy that run out of 
the Mutton, and put a little goed Gravy to it, 
with two Spoonful of Walnut Catchup, one of § 
Browning, a little Chyan Pepper, and one or 
two Shalots, when your Meat is tender, thicken 
it with Flour and Butter, put yogir Meat in the 
Difh with the Gravy, and lay the Blade on the 
Top, broiled a dark brown: Garnifh with green § 
Rickles, and ferve it up, . 


Zo boil ‘4 Shoulder of Mutton, ‘with Onion 
- Sauce, 


Pur your Shoulder in when the Water is 
cold, -when enough, fmother it with Onion 
Sauce, made the fame as for boiled Ducks.— 
You may drefs a Shoulder of Veal the fame 
way. | 


A Shoulder of Mutton, and Cellery Sauce. 


Bort jt as before ‘till it is quite enough, 
pour over jt Cellety Sauce, and fend it to the 

able, 3 
N. B. 


 Encutsh HOUSE-KEEPER. 93 


N. B. The Sauce.—Wath and clean ten Heads 
of Cellery, cut off the green Tops, and take 


off rhe Outfide Stalks, cut them into thin bits, 


and boil it in Gravy ’till it is tender, thicken 
it with Flour and Butter, and pour ijt over your 
Matton.—A Shoulder of Veal roaited with this 
Sauce 1s very good. | 


“Mutton kebobed, 


Cur a Loin of Mutton in four Pieces, take 
off the Skin, and rub them with the Yolk 
of an Egg, flrew over them a few Bread 
Crumbs and a little fhread Parfley, turn them 
round and {pit them, roaft them and keep 


_ bafting all the while with frefh Butter, to make 
_ the Froth rife; when they are enough, put a 


=_——_ 


little Brown Gravy under, and ferve them up: 
Garnifh with Pickle. . 


To: erill a Breaft’ of Mutton. 


SecorE a Breaft of Mutton in Diamonds, and 
rub it over with the Yolk of an Egg, then ftrew 
on a few Bread Crumbs and fhread Parfley, put 


~ itin a Dutch Oven to broil, bafte it with frefh 


Butter, pour in the Difh good Caper Sauce, 
and fervye it up. 


Split Leg of Mutton and Onion Sauce. 


Spurr the Leg from the Shank to the End, 
ftick a Skewer in to keep the Nick open, bafte 
7 Lo 1¢ 


94 The ExrPERIENCED 


it with Red Wine “till it is half roafted, then 
take the Wine out of the Dripping Pan, and 
put to it one Anchovy, fet it over the Fire ’till 
the Anchovy is diffolved, rub the Yolk of a 
hard Egg in a little cold Butter, mix it with 
the Wine, and put it uf your Sauce Boat, pour 

ood Onion Sauce over the Leg when it us 
roafted, and ferve it up. 


To force a Leg of Mutton. 


Raise the Skin and take out the lean Par 
of the Mutton, chop it exceeding fine, with 
one Anchovy, fhread a Bundle of Sweet Herbs, . 
grate a Penny Loaf, half a Lemon, Nucmeg, 
Pepper, and Salt to your Tafte, make them 
into a Force-meat, with three Eggs and a large 
Glafs of Red Wine, fll up the Skin with the 
Force-meat, but leave the Bone and Shank in 
their place, and it will appear like a whole 
Leg, bey it on an Earthen Difh with a Pint of 
Red Wine under it, and fend it.to the Oven; 
it will take two Hours and a half; when it 
comes out take off all the Fat, ftrain the Gra- 
vy over the Mutton, lay round it hard Yolks 
of Eggs, and pickled Mufhrooms: Garnih 
with Pickles, and ferve it up. 


To drefs Sheeps Rumps and Kidneys. 


Born fix Sheeps Rumps in Veal Gravy, then 
Jard your Kidneys with Bacon, and fet them 
before the Fire in a Tin Oven; when the 
Rumps are tender, rnb them over with me 

| . } - Yo 


Encuiss HOUSE-KEEPER.  9¢ 


Yolk of an Egg, a little Chyan and grated Nut- 
meg, fkim the Fat off the Gravy, put it in a 
clean Toffing Pan, with three Ounces of boiled 


Rice, a Spoonful of good Cream, a little Mufh- 


room. Powder or Catchup, thicken it with Flour 
and Butter, and give it a gentle boil, fry your 


Ruamps a light Brown; when you difh them 
wp, lay them round on your Rice, fo that the 


fmall Ends meet im the Middle, and lay a Kid- 


| ney berween every Rump: Garnifh with Red 


Cabbage or Barberries, and ferve 1t up. 
It is a pretty Side or Corner Diih, 


To drefs a Leg of Mutton to eat like Fenifon. 


Ger the largeft and fateft Leg of Mutton you 
can get, cut out like a Hanch of Venifon, as 


_ foon as itis killed, whilft it is warm, % will eat 
_ the tenderer, take out the bloody Vein, ftick it 


in feveral Places in the under Side with a fharp- 


_ pointed Knife, pour over it a Bottle of Red Wine, 
_ turn it in the Wine four or five times a Day 


, 
| 


= 


for five Days, then dry it exceeding well with 
a clean Cloth, hang it up inthe Air with the 
thick End uppermott for five Days, dry it Night 
and Morning to keep it from being damp, or 
growing muity; when you roaft it, cover it 
with Paper and Pafte as you do Venifon; ferve 
tup with Venifon Sauce.~It will take four 
Hours roafting. . 


A ; 


96 The ExpERIENCED 


A Bafque of Mutton. . 


Take the Caul of a Leg of Veal, lay ima 
Copper Difh the Size. of a fmall Punch Bowl, 
take the Lean of a Leg of Mutton that has 
been kept a. Week, chop it exceeding {mall, 
take half its Weight in Beef Marrow, the 
Crumbs of a Penny Loaf, the Yolks of four 
Eggs, two Anchovies, half a Pint of Red 
Wine, the Rind of half a Lemon grated, mix 
it like Saufage-meat, and lay it in your Caul 


in the Infide of your Difh, clofe up the Caul, | 


and bake it in a quick Oven; when. it comes 
out lay your Difh upfide-down, and turn the 
whole out, pour over it Brown Gravy, and 
fend it up with Venifon Sauce in a Boat: Gar- 
nifh with Pickle. 


Oxford John. 


Take a ftale Leg of Mutton, cut it in ag 
thin Collops as you poffibly can, take out all 
the fat Sinews, feafon them with Mace, Pep- 
per, and Salt, ftrew among them a little fhread 
Parfley, Thyme,.and two or three Shalots, put 
a good Lump of Butter into a Stew Pan ; when 
itis hot putin a your Collops, keep ftirring 
them with a Wooden Spoon ’till they are three 
parts done, then add half a Pint of Gravy, a 
ittle Juice of Lemon, thicken it a little with 
Flour and Butter, let them fimmer four or five 
‘Minutes and they. will be quite enough, if 
you let them boil, or have them ready before 

. you 


EncitisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 97 


you want them they will grow hard; ferve 


them up hot, with fried Bread cut in Dices, 


_ over and round them. 


To boil a Leg of Lamb and Loin fried. 


and fry them a good Brown, then ftew them | — 


- gj. 


Cur your Leg from the Loin, boil the Leg 
three quarters of an Hour, cut the Loin in 
handfome Steaks, beat them with a Cleaver, 


a little in ftrong Gravy, put your Leg on the 
Difh, and lay your Steaks round it, pour on 
your Gravy, lay round Lumps of ftewed Spin- 
age, and crifped Parfley on every Steak, fend 
it to the Table with Goofberry Sauce in a Boat. 


To force a Quarter of Lamb. 


Take a hind Quarter, and cut off the Shank, 
raife the thick Part of the Flefh from the Bone 
with a Knife, ftuff the Place wich white Force- 
meat, and ftuff it under the Kidney, half roaft . 


it, then put it in a Tofling Pan with a Quart 
. of Mutton Gravy, cover it clofe up, and let it 


few gently; when it is enough, take it up, and 


_ lay it on your Dith, fkiim the Fat off the Gravy, 


and ftrain it, then put in a Glafs of Madeira 


_ Wine, one Spoonful of Walnut Catchup, two 


of Beowning, half a Lemon, a little Chyan, 


half a Pint of Oyfters, thicken it with a little 


Butter rolled in Flour, pour your Gravy hot 


| on your Lamb and ferve it up. 


N Lo 


g8 °.° The ExperrveNcED 


To drefs a Lamb's ‘Head and Purtenance, 


Skin the Head and fplit it, take the black 
Part out of the Eyes, then wafbh and clean it 
exceeding well, lay it in warm Water tll it]. 
looks white, wafh and clean the Purtenance, § 
take off the Gall, and lay them in Water, - boil f 
.it half an Hour, then mince your Heart, Liver, |, 
and Lights very {mall, put the Mince-meat in ¢ 
a Toffing Pan with a Quart.of Mutton Gravy, 
a little Catchup, Pepper,-and Salt, half a Le- {| 
mon, thicken it ‘with Flour and Butter, a Spoon- | 
ful of good Cream, and juft boil it up; when § 
your Head. is boiled rub it over with the Yolk 
of an Egg, ftrew over it Bread Crumbs, a little } 
fhread Parfley, Pepper, and Salt, bafte it well 
_ with Butter, and brown it before the Fire, or 
with a Salamander, put the Purtenance on 
your Difh, and lay the Head over it: Garnifh 
with Lemon or Pickle, and ferve it up. 


To fricafey Lamb Stones. 


Skin fix Lamb Stones, or what Quantity 
you pleafe, dip them in Batter, and fry them 
in Hog’s-lard a nice Brown, have ready a lit- 
tle Veal Gravy, thicken it with Flour and But- 
ter, putin a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, | 
a little Mufhroom Catchup, a Slice of Lemon, | 
a little grated Nutmeg, beat the Yolk of an 
Egg, and mix it with two Spoonfuls of thick 
Cream, put it in your Gravy, keep fhaking it 
over the Fire ’till it kooks white and thick, then 


put 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 99 


ut in the Lamb Stones,- and give them a_ . 
ke; when they are hot, diff them up, and 
Jay round them boiled Force-meat Balls, — 


| To roafl Pig mn Imitation of Lamb. 


Ler your Pig be a Month or five Weeks old, 
divide it down the Middle, take off the Shoul- 
der, and leave the reft to the hind Part, then. 
take the Skin off,-draw Sprigs of. Parfley all over 
the Outfide,; which muft be done by. running a 
Skewer or larding Pin, and _, fticking the Stalk 
of the Parfley in it;-fpit it and roaft it before. 
a quick Fire, dredge it and bafte it well with 
frefh Butter, roaft it a fine Brown, and fend it 
up with a Froth on it: Garnifh’ with green 
Parfley, it will eat and look like fat Lamb.— 
lt is'eat with Salad, - | rn 


To barbicue a Pig. 


Dress a Pig of ten Weeks old.as if it were 
to be roafted, make a Force-meat of two An- 
chovies, fix Sage Leaves, and the Liver of the 
Pig, all chopped very fmall, then put them 
into a Marble Mortar, with the Crumbs of half 
a Penny Loaf, four Ounces of Butter, half a 
Tea Spoonful of Chyan Pepper, and half a Pint 
of Red Wine, beat them altogether to a Patte,, 
put it in. your Pig’s Belly and few it up, lay- 
your Pig down at a good Diftance before a large 
brifk Fire, finge it.well, put in your Dripping 
Pan three Bottles of Red Wine, bafte it with 
the Wine all the Time it is roafting, when it is 

N 2 half 


100 The ExPSRIENCED 


half roafted, put under your Pig two Penny 
Loaves, if you have not Wine enough put in 
more, when your Pig is near enough, take the 
Loaves and Sauce out of your Dripping Pan, 
put to the Sauce one Anchovy cho Fed fmnall: 
' a Bundle of {weet Herbs, and half a Lemon, 
boil it a few Minutes, then draw your Pig, put 
a {mall Lemon or Apple in the Pig’s Mout 
and a Loaf on each Side, flrain your Sauce 


pour it on them boiling hot, lay Barbernes | 


and Slices- of Lemon round it, and fend it up 

whole to the Table. | 

Ie is a grand Bottom Difh.—Ic will take four 
, Hours roafting. 


| To barbicue a Leg of Potk. 


Lay down your Leg to a good Fire, put into 
the Dripping Pan two Bottles of Red Wine, 
bafte your Pork with it all the Time it is roaf- 
ing, when it is enough, take up what is left 
in the Pan, put to it two Anchovies, the Yolks 
of three Eggs boiled hard and pounded fine, with 
a quarter of a Pound of Butter, add half a Lemon, 
a Bunch of fweet Herbs, a Tea Spoonful of 
Lemon Pickle, a Spoonful of Catchup, and one 
of Torragon Vinegar, or a little Torragon 
fhread {mall, boil them a few Minutes, then 
draw your Pork, and cut the Skin down from 
the Bottom of the Shank in rows an Inch broad, 
rarfe every other row and roll it to the Shank, 
ftrain your Sauce and pour it on boiling hot, 
lay Oyfter patties all round your Fork, and 
Sprigs of green Parfley, 7 

0 


EncLisxh HO USE-KEEPER. 105 


_ To finf a Chine of Pork. 


Taxs a Chine that has been hung about a 
Month, boil it half an Hour, then take it-up 
‘and make Holes in it all over the lean part, 
one Inch from another, ftuff them and betwixt 
the Joints with thread Parfley, rub it all over 
with the Yolk of Eggs, .ftrew over it Bread 
Crumbs, bafte it, and fet it in a Dutch Oven, 
when it is enough, lay round it boiled Brocoli, 
or ftewed Spinage: Garnifh with Parfley. 


To roaft a Ham, or a Gammon of Bacon. 


Hatr boil your Ham or Gammon, then take 


off the Skin, dredge it with Oatmeal fifted very 


fine, bafte it with frefh Butter, it will make a 
_ftronger Froth than either Flour or Bread 
Crumbs, then roaft it, when it is enough, difh 
it up and pour brown Gravy on your Difh: 
garnifh with green Parfley and fend it to the 
Table. : 


To force the Infide of a Surloin of Beef. 


Serr your Surloin, then cut off from the In- 
fide all the Skin and Fat together, and then 
take off all the Flefh to the Bones, chop the 
Meat very fine, with a little beaten Mace, two 
or three Shallots, one Anchovy, half a Pint of 
Red Wine, a little Pepper and Salt, and put it 
on the Bones again, lay your Fat and Skin on 
again, and Skewer it clofe and Paper it well, 

when 


NS 


a 


or The ExpERIENCED 


‘when roafted take off the Fat, and Difh up the 
Surloin, pour over it a Sauce made of a little 


Red Wine, a Shallot, one Anchovy, two or | 


three Slices of Horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. 
To ftew.a Rump of Beef. 


Har roaft your Beef,. then put it in a large 
’ Sauce Pan or Caldron, with two Quarts of Wa- 
ter,.and one of Red Wine, two or three Blades: 
of Mace, a Shallot, one Spoonful of Lemon 
Pickle, two of Walnut Catchup, the fame of 
Browning, Chyan Pepper and Salt to your 
Tafte, let it flew over a gentle Fire clofe co- 
vered for two Hours, then take up your Beef, 
and lay it on a deep Dith, fkim off the Fat, 
and {train the Gravy, and put in one Ounce of 
Morel, and half a Pint of Mufhrooms, thicken 
your Gravy and pour it over your Beef, lay 
’ round it Force-meat Balls: Garnifh with Horfe- 
radifh, and ferve it up. ; 


1 Fricando of Beef. 


‘Cur a few Slices of Beef five or fix Inches 
Jong, and half an Inch thick, lard it with Ba- 
con, dredge it well with Flour, and fet it before 
a brifk Fire to brown, then put it in a Tofling 
Pan, with a Quart of Gravy, a few Morels an 
Truffles, half a Lemon, and ftew them half an 
Hour, then add one Spoonful of Catchup, the 
fame of Browning, anda little Chyan, thicken 
your Sauce and pour it over your Fricando, lay 


round 


EncérishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 103. 


round them Force-meat Balls, and the Yolks 


_ of hard Eggs. 


—w— 


To a-la-mode Beef. 


Taxe the Bone out of a Rump of Beef, lard 
the Top with Bacon, then make a Force-meat 
of four Ounces of Marrow, two Heads of Gar- 
lick, the Crumbs of a Penny Loaf, a few {weet 
Herbs chopped fmall, Nutmeg, Pepper and 
Salt to your Tafte, and the Yolks of tour Eggs 
well beat, mix it up, and ftuff your Beef were 
the Bone came out, and in fevera! Places in the 


lean part, fkewer it round and bind it about 


r 


with a Fillet, put it in a Pot with a Pint of Red 
Wine, and tie it down with ftrong Paper, bake 
it in the Oven for three Hours; when it comes 
out, if you want to eat it hot, fkim the Fat off 
the Gravy, and add half an Ounce of Morels, 
a Spoonful of pickled Mufhrooms; thicken it 
with Flour and Butter, difh up your Beef and- 
pour on the Gravy, lay round it Force-mcat 
Balls, and fend it up. : 


To make a Porcupine of the Flat Ribs of Beef. 


Bone the Flat Ribs, and beat it half an Hour 
with a Pafte Pin, then rub it over with the 
Yolks of Eggs, flrew over .it Bread Crumbs, 
Parfley, Leeks, Swect Marjoram, Lemon Peel 
thread fine, Nutmeg, Pepper and Salt, roll it 
up very clofe, and bind it hard, lard it acrofs 
with Bacon, then a row of cold boiled Tongues, 
a third row of pickled Cutumbers, a fourth 

row 


104 The ExPERIENCED 


row of Lemon Peel, do it all over in rows as a §: 
bove ‘till it is larded all round, it will look like |, 
red, green, white, and yellow Dices, then Spit 
it or put it in a deep Pot with a Pint of Water, 
lay over it the Caul of Veal to keep it from — 
{corching, tie 1t down with ftrong Paper and §; 
fend it to the Oven, when it comes out fkim 
off the Fat, and itrain your Gravy into a Sauce 
Pan, add to it two Spoonfuls of Red Wine, the 
fame of Browning, one of Mufhroom Catchup, f 
half a Lemon, thicken it with a Lump of Butter § 
rolled in Flour, difh up the Meat and pour the § 
Gravy on the Difh, lay round Force-meat Balls: § 
Garnifh with Horfe-radifh, and ferve it up. 


To make Brisket of Beef a-la-royal. 


Bone 2 Brifket of Beef, and make holes in 
it with a Knife, about an Inch one from ano- 
ther, fill one hole with fat Bacon, a fecond 
with chopped Parfley, and a third with chopped 
Oyfters, feafoned with Nutmeg, Pepper, and 
Salt, ‘till you have done the Brifket over, then 
pour a Pint of Red Wine boiling hot upon the 
Beef, dredge it well with Flour, fend it to the 
. Oven, and bake it three Hours or better; when 
it comes out of the Oven take off the Fat, and 
ftrain the Gravy over your Beef: Garnifh with 
Pickles, and ferve it up. | 


Beef Olives. . 


Cur Slices off a Rump of Beef about fix 
Inches long and half an Inch thick, beat them 
| wit 


EncuiskH# HOUSKE-KEEPER. ies 


| with. a Pafte-pin, and rub them over with the 


~~ oe 


' and fend in Re 


Yolk of an Egg, a lietle Pepper, Salt, and bea- | 
ten Mace, the Crumbs of half a Peany Loaf, 
two Ounces of Marrow fliced fine, 2 Handful 
of Pariley chopped fmall, and the Out-rind of 


half a Lemon grated, frew them all aver your 


Steaks, and roll them up, fkewer them quite 
clofe, and fet them before the Fixe to Brown, 
then put them into a Tofling Pan with a Pint 
of Gravy, a Spoonful of Catchup, the fame of 
Browning, a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, 
thicken it with a litcle Butter rolled in Flour: 
Lay round Force-meat Balls, Mufhrooms, or 
the Yolks of hard Eggs. 


Fo make Mock Hare of a Beaft's Heart. 


- Wasu a large Beaft’s. Heart clean, and cut 
eff the Deaf-Ears, and ftuff it with fome Force- 
peat, as you do a Hare, lay a Caul of Veal 
er Paper over the Top,. to keep in the Stuffing, 
yoait it either in a Cradle Spit or a hanging one, 
it will take an Hour and a half before a good 
Fire, bafte 1t with Red Wine; when roafted 
take the Wine out of the Dripping Pan, and 
fim off the Fat, and adda Glafs more of Wine, 
when it is hot put uz fome Lumps of Red Cur- 
yant Jelly, and pour it in the Dith, ferve it up, 
LY Currant Jelly cut in.Slices.on 

a Sancer. | 


Reef Heart Jarded. 


TAKE a good: Beaft Heart, ftuff it as before, 
and lard it all over with little bits of Bacon, 


‘106 : The ExPpERrENCED 


duft it with Flour, and cover it with Paper, to 
keep it from being too dry, and fend it to the 
Oven; when baked put the Heart on your Dith, 
take off the Fat and ftrain the Gravy through 
a Hair Sieve, put itin a Sauce Pan with one 
Spoonful of Red Wine, the fame of Brown- 
ing, and one of Lemon Pickle, half an Ounce 
of Morels, one Anchovy cut fmall, a litte 

_ beaten Mace, thicken it with Flour and Butter, 
pour hot on your Heart, and ferve it up: Gar- 
nifh with Barberries. 


To ftew Ox Palates. 


Wasn four Ox Palates in feveral Waters, | 
and then lay them in warm Water for half an 
Hour, then wafh them out and put them in a 

. Pot, and tie them down with ftrong Paper, and 
fend them to the Oven with as much Water as 
will cover them, or boil them ’till tender, then 
{kin them, and cut them in Pieces half an 
Inch broad and three Inches long, and put 
them in a Toffing Pan with a Pint of Veal 
Gravy, one Spoonful of Madeira Wine, the 
fame of Catchup and Browning, one Onion 
*ftuck with Cloves, and a Slice of Lemon, ftew | 
them half an Hour, then take out the Onion 
and Lemon, thicken your Sauce, and put them 
in a Difh; have ready boiled Artichoke Bot- 
toms, cut them in Quarters, and lay them 
over your Palates, with Force-meat Balls and 
Morels: Garnifh with Lemon, and _ ferve 
them up. 
To 


EnctishH. HOUSE-KEEPER. 107 


To ‘fricando Ox Palates. 


WueEwn you have wafhed and cleaned your 
Palates as before, cut them in fquare Pieces, 
lard them with little bits of Bacon, fry them 

in Hog’s-lard, a pretty Brown, and put them 
4m a.Sieve to. drain the Fat from them, then 
take better than half a Pint of Beef Gravy, 
one Spoonful of Red Wine, half as much of , 
Browning, a little Lemon Pickle, one Anchovy, 
a Shalot, anda bit of Horfe-radifh; give them 
‘a boil, and ftrain your Gravy, then put in your 
Palates, and ftew them halé an Hour, make 
your Sauce pretty thick, -difh them up, and lay 
round them ftewed Spinage prefled and cut 
like Sippets, and ferve them up. 


To fricafey Ox Palates. 


CLEAN your Palates very well as before, put. 
them in a Stew Pot, and cover them with Wa- 
ter, fet them in the Oven for three or four 
Hours; when they come from the Oven ftrip 
off the Skins, and cut them in fquare Pieces, 
feafon them with Mace, Nutmeg, Chyan, and . 
Salt, mix a Spoonful of Flour with the Yolks — 
of two Eggs, dip in your Palates, and fry 
them a light Brown, then put them in a Sieve to 
drain; have ready half a Pint of Veal Gravy, 
with a little Caper Liquor, a Spoonful of: 
Browning, and a few Mufhrooms, thicken it 
well with Flour and Butter, paur it hot on 
| O 2 _ your. 


108 The ExpERIENCED 


your Difh, and lay in your Palates: Garnith 
with fried Parfley and Barberies. 


To few a Turkey with Celery Sauce. 


Take a large Turkey, and make a Rood 
white Force-meat of Veal, and ftuff the Craw 
of the Turkey, fkewer it as for boiling, then 
boil it-in foft Water ’till it is almoft enough, 
ana then take up your Turkey, and put it ine 
Pot with fome of the Water it ‘was polled if, 
to keep it hot, put feven or eight Heads of Ce- 
jery that is wafhed and cleaned very well into 
the Water that che Turkey was boiled in, ‘till 
they are tender, then take them up, and Pies 
in your Turkey with the Breaft down, and ftew 
it a quarter of an Hour, then take it up, and. 
thicken your Sauce with half a Pound of But- 
. ter and Flour to make it pretty thick, and a 
quarter of a Pint of rich Cream, then put in 
your Celery; pour the Sauce and Celery hot 
upon the Turkey’s Breaft, and ferve it up. 
it ts: a proper Top Difh for Dinner or Supper. 


To few a Turkey brown. 


WHEN you have drawn the Craw out of 
your Turkcy, cut it up the Back and take out 
the Entrails, that the Turkey may appear 
whole, and take all the Bones out of the Body 
very carefully, the Rump, Legs, and Wings 
is to be left whole, then take the Crumb of a 
Penny Loaf, and chop half a hundred of Oy- 
fiers very {mall, with half a Pound of Beef 

- Marrow, 


EnciishH HOUSE-KEEPER, 109 


Marrow, a little Lemon Peel cut fine, and Pep- 
and Salt, mix them weil up together, with 
‘the Yolks of four Eggs, and ftuff your Turkey 
‘with it, few it up and lard it down each Side 
‘with Bacon, half roaft it, then put it into a 
Toffing Pan with two Quarts of Veal Gravy, 
and cover it clofe up; when it has ftewed one 
Hour, add a Spoonful of Mufhroom Catchup, 
half an Anchovy, a Slice or two of Lemon, a 
lithe Chyan Pepper, and a Bunch of Sweet 
Herbs ; cover them clofe up again, and ftew it 
half an Hour longer, then take it up and fkim 
the Fat off the Gravy, and ftrain ic, thicken it 
with Flour and Butter, let it boil a few Mi-- 
nutes, and pour x hot upon your Turkey: Lay 
round it Oyfter Patties, and ferve it up. 


Fowls a-la-braize. 


SKEWER your Fow! as for boiling, with the 
Legs in the Body, then lay over it a Layer of 
fat Bacon, cut in pretty thin Slices, then wra 
itround in Beet Leaves, then in a Caul of Veal, 
and put it into 2 large Sauce Pan with three 
Pints of Water, a Glafs of Madeira Wine, a 
Bunch of fweet Herbs, two or three Blades of 
Mace, and half a Lemon, ftew it till quite 
tender, take it up and Skim off the Fat, make 
your Gravy pretty thick with Flour and Butter, 
and {train it thro’ a Hair Sieve, and put to ita 
Pint of Oyfters, a Tea Cupful of thick Cream, 
keep fhaking your Toffing Pan over the Fire, 
and when ic has fimmered a little, ferve up 
your Fowl with the Bacon, Beet Leaves, and 

Ca 


110 The ExPERIENCED 


Caul on, and pour your Sauce. hot upon it: 


Garnifh with Barberries, or red Beet Root. 


To foree a Fowl. 


Take a large Fowl, pick it clean and cut it 3 
down the Back, take out the Intrails and take 7 
the Skin off whole, cut the. Flefh from the } 


Bones, and chop it with half a Pint of Oyfters, 
one Ounce of Beef Marrow, a little Pepper and 
Salt, mix it up with Cream, then lay the Meat 
on the Bones and draw the Skin over it and 
fow up the Back, then cut large thin Slices of 
Bacon, and lay. them: over the Breaft of your 
Fowl, tie the Bacon on with a pack Thread 
in Diamonds, it will take one Hour roatting by 
a moderate Fire, make a good brown Gravy 
Sauce, pour it upon your Dith, take the Bacon 
off and Jay in your Fowl, and ferve it up: Gar- 
nifh with Pickles, Mufhrooms, or Oyfters. 


It is proper for a Side Difh for Dinner, or Top ! 


for Supper. 
To fricafey Chickens. 


Skin them and cut them in fmall Pieces, 
wath them in warm Water, and then dyy them 
very. clean with a Cloth, feafon them with Pep- 
per and Salt, and then put them into a Stew 
Pan with a little fair Water, and a good Piece 
of Butter, a little Lemon Pickle, or half a Le- 
mon, a Glafs of white Wine, one Anchovy, 
a little Mace and Nutmeg, an Onion ftuck with 
Cloves, a Bunch of Lemon Thyme and {weet 

: : a, Maryjoram, 


| 
| 
| 
| 


niall 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. wrt 


Marjoram, let them ftew together ’till your 
Chickens are tender, and then lay them on 
your Difh, thicken the Gravy with Flour and 
Butter, ftrain it, then beat the Yolks of three 
Eggs a little, and mix them with a large Tea 
Cupful of -rich Cream, and put it in your Gra- 
vy and fhake it over the Fire but don’t let it 
boil, and pour it over your Chickens, : 


To force Chickens. 


Roast your Chickens better than half, take 
off the Skin, then the Meat, and chop it {mall 
with fhread Parfley and Crumbs of Bread, Pep- 
‘per and Salt, and a little good Cream, then 
put in the Meat and clofe the Skin, brown it 
qth a Salamander, and ferve it up with White 

auce. | 


To marinate a Goofe. | 


Cur your Goofe up the Back-bone, then take 
out all the Bones, -and ftuff it with Force-meat, 
and fow up the Back again, fry the Goofe a 
good Brown, then put it into a deep Stew Pan - 
with two Quarts of good Gravy and cover it 
clofe, and ftew it two Hours, then take it out and 
fkim off the Fat, add a large Spoonful of Le- . 
mon Pickle, one of Browning, and one of Red 
Wine, one Anchovy fhread fine, beaten Mace, 
Pepper, and Salt to your Palate, thicken with | 
Flour and Butter, boil it a little, difh up your 
Goofe, and ftrain your Gravy over it. 


Note. 


132 The EXPERIENCED 


Note. Make your Stuffing thus, take ten or 
twelve Sage Leaves, two large Onions, two or 
three large fharp Apples fhread them very fine, 
_ynix them with the Crumbs of a Penny Loaf, 

four Ounces of Beef Marrow, one Ghats of 
Red Wine, half a Nutmeg gratered, Pepper, 
Sale, and a little Lemon Peel fhread fmnll, § 
make a light Stuffing with the Yolks of four § 
Eggs, obferve to make it one Hour before you 
want it. . 


Tea flew Ducks. 


Take three young’ Ducks, lard them down 
_ each Side the Breaft, duft them with Flour 
and fet them before the Fire to brawn, then 
put them in a Stew Pan with a Quart of Water, 
a Pint of Red Wine, one Spoonful of Walnut 
Catchup, the fame of Browning, one Anchovy, 
half a Lemon, a Clove of Garlick, a Bundle 
of fweet Herbs, Chyan Pepper to your Tafte, 
let them ftew flowly for half an Hour or ‘till 
they are tender, lay them on a Dith and keep 
them hot, fkim off the Fat, ftrain your Gravy 
through a Hair Sieve, add to it a few Morels 
and Truffles, boil it quick ‘till reduced to little 
more than half a Pint, pour it over your Ducks 
and ferve it up. a 
Ie is proper for a Side Dith for Dinner, ar 
: Bottoma for Supper. : 


Zo 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 113 


— To few Ducks with Green Peas. - 


Harr roaft your Ducks, then put them into 
a Stew Pan with a Pint of good Gravy, a little 
Mint, and three or four Sage Leaves chopped 
{mall, cover them clofe and ftew them half an 
Hour, boil a Pint of Green Peas as for eating, 
and put them in after you have thickened the 
Gravy, difh up your Ducks, and pour the 
_Gravy and Peas overthem. ~~ oo, 


Ducks a-/a braize. 


Dress, and finge your Ducks, lard them 
quite through with Bacan rolled in fhread Par- 
ey, Thyme, Onions, beaten Mace, Cloves, 

_ Pepper .and Salt, put in the bottom of a Stew 
- Pana few Slices of fat Bacon, .the fame of Ham 
or Gammon of Bacon, two or three Slices of 
Veal or Beef, lay your Ducks in with the Breaft 
down, and cover the Ducks with Slices the 
fame as put under them, cut in a Carrot or two, 

_ aTurnip, one Onion, a head of Celery, a Blade 
of Mace, four or five Cloves, a little whole 
Pepper, cover them clofe down, and let them 
fimmer a little over a gentle Stove ‘till the Breaft 
is a light Brown, then put in fome Brofh or, 
Water, cover them as clofe down again as you 
can, ftew them gently betwixt two and three’ 
Hours till enou F then take Parfley, Onion or 
Shallot, two Anchovies, a few Gherkins or Ca- 
pers, chop them all very fine, put them in-.a 
Stew Pan with part of the Liquor from the 
P Ducks, 


114 | The Experrencen . 


Ducks, a little Browning, the Juice of half aLe- 
mon, boil it up, and cut’ the Ends of the Bacon 
even with the Breaft of your Ducks, lay them on 
your Difh, pour the Sauce hot upon them, and 
ferve them up, fome put Garlick inftead of 
Onions, . , _ 


Ducks a-la-mode. 


St1t two Ducks down the Back, and Bone 
them carefully, make a Force-meat of the 
Crumbs of a Penny Loaf, four Ounces of fat 
Bacon {craped, a little Parfley, Thyme, Lemon 
Peel, two Shallots or Onions fhread very fine, 
with Pepper, Salt, and Nutmeg to your Tafte, 
and two Eggs, ftuff your Ducks with it and 
few them up, lard them down each Side of the 
Breaft with Bacon, dredge them well with 
Flour, and put them in a Dutch Oven to Brown, 
then put them into a Stew Pan with three 
Pints of Gravy, a Glafs of Red Wine, a Tea 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a large one of Wal- 
nut and Mufhroom Catchup, one of Browning, 
and one Anchovy, with Chyan Pepper to your 
Tafte, ftew them gently over a how Fire for 
an Hour, when enough, thicken your Gravy 
and put in a few Truffles and Morels, ftrain 
your Gravy and pour it upon them.—You may 
a-la-mode a Goofe the fame way. 


| Pidgeons compote. 
Take fix young Pidgeons and fkewer them 
as you do for boiling, put.Force-meat into the 
. ° Craws, 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 15 
Craws, lard them down the Breaft and fry them 


Brown, then put them into ftrong brown Gra- 


vy, and let them ftew three quarters of an 
Hour, thicken it with a Lump of Butter rolled 


_ in Flour,- when you Dith them up, lay Force- 


meat Balls round them, and ftrain the Gravy 
over them.—The Force-meat muft be made 
thus; grater the Crumbs of half a Penny Loaf, 
and fcrape.a quarter of a Pound of fat Bacon 
inftead of Suet, chop a little Parfley, Thyme, 
two Shallots or an Onion, grater a little Nut- 
meg, Lemon Peel, fome Pepper and Salt, mix 
them all up with Eggs. _ 

It is proper for a Top Dith for fecond courfe, 

or a Side Difh for the firft. 


Pidgeons in a Hole. 


Picx, draw, and wafh four young Pidgeons, 
ftick their Legs into their Belly as you do boil- 
ed Pidgeons, feafon them with Pepper, Salt, 
and beaten Mace, put into the Belly of every - 
Pidgeon, a Lump of Butter the Size of a Wal- 
nut, lay your Pidgeons in a Pye Difh, ‘ pour 
over them a Batter made of three Eggs, two 
Spoonfuls of Flour, and half a Pint of good 
Milk, bake it in a moderate Oven, and ferve 
them to Table in the fame Difh. 


Pidgeons tranfinogarified. 


Prcx, and clean fix {mall young Pidgeons, 
but do not cut off their Heads, cut of their Pi- 
nions, and- boil them ten Ms } in Water, 

P 2 then 


116 The ExPERIENCED 


‘then cut off the Ends of fix large Cucumbers 
and {crape out the Seeds, put in your Pigeons, 
-but let the Heads be cut at the Ends of the 
Cucumbers, and {tick a Bunch of Barberries 
in their Bills, and then put them into a Tof- 
fing Pan with a Pint of Veal Gravy, a little An- 
chovy, a Glafs of Red Wine, a Spoonful of 
‘Browning, a little Slice of Lemon, Chyan and 
Salt to your Tafte, ftew them feven Minutes, 
- take them out, thicken your Gravy with a lit- 
tle Butter rolled in Flour, boil it up and ftrain 
it over your Pigeons, and ferve it up. 


To broil Pigeons, 


TAKE young Pigeons, pick, and draw them, 
{plic them down the Back, and feafon them 
with Pepper and Salt, lay them on the Gridiron, 
with the Breaft upward, then turn them, but 
be careful you do not burn the Skin, rub them 
over with Butter and keep rurning them 'till 
they are enough, difh them up, and lay round 
‘them crifped Parfley, and pour over them melt- 
ed Butter, or a Gravy which you pleafe, and 
fend them yp. } 


To boil Pigeons in Rice. © 


WHEN you have pickled and drawn your 
‘Pigeons, turn the Legs under.the Wings, and 
‘cut aff the Pinions, then lay over every Pid- 

eon thin Slices of Bacon, and a large Beet 

eaf, ‘wrap them in clean Cloths feparately, 
and bojl them ‘till enough, have ready four 
Ounces 


Enciisn HOUSE-KEEPER, 117 


Ounces of Rice boiled foft.and put into a Sieve 
to drain, put the Rice into a little good Veal 
Gravy thickened with Flour and Butter, boil : 
your Rice a little in the Gravy, and add two 
Spoonful of good Cream, take your Pigeons 
out of the Cloths and leave on the Bacon and 
Beet Leaves, pour the Rice over them and 
ferve them up. | 


To fricando Pigeons. 


Picx, draw, and wafh your Pigeons very 
clean, ftuff the Craws, and lard them down 
the Sides of the Breaft, fry them in Butter a 
fine Brown, and then put them into a Toffin 
Pan with a Quart of Gravy, ftew them ’ti 
they are tender, then take off the Fat, and put 
in a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a large 
Spoonful of Browning, the fame of Walnut 
Catchup, a little Chyan and Salt, thicken your 
Gravy and add half an Ounce of Morels, and 
four Yolks of hard Eggs, lay the Pigeons in 
your Difh, and put the Morels and Eggs round 
them, and ftrain your Sauce over them: Gar- 
nifh with Barberries and Lemon Peel, and ferve 
up, . 


Fuged Pigeons. 


Take fix Pigeons, pluck and draw them, 
wafh them clean and dry them with a Cloth, » 
feafon them with beaten Mace, white Pepper 
and Salt, put them in a Jug, and put half a 
Pound of Butter upon them, ftop up your Jug 

clofe 


118 The ExPERIENCED 


clofe with a Cloth that no Steam can get our, 
fet it in a Kettle of boiling Water, and let 
boil one Hour and a Half, then take out yo 
Pidgeons, and put the Gravy that 1s come 
the Pidgeons into a Pan, and put to it on 
Spoonful of Wine, one of Catchup, a Slice 
Lemon; half an Anchovy chopped fmall, 
a Bundle of fweet Herbs, boil it a little, thick 
it with a little Butter rolled in Flour, lay you® 
Pidgeons on the Difh, and ftrain the Gravy ong 
them: Garnifh with Parfley and red Cabbage, 
and ferve them up, you may lay Mufhrooms or 
Force-meat Balls. _ | 
It is a pretty Side or Corner Difh. 


Boiled Pidgeons and Bacon. 


. Taxe fix young Pidgeons, wafh them clean 

as before, turn their Legs under their Wings, 
boil them.in Milk and Water by themfelves 
twenty Minutes, have ready boiled a {quare 
Piece of Bacon, take off the Skin and Brown 
it, put the Bacon in the Middle of your Dih, 
and lay the Pidgeons round it, and Lumps of 
ftewed Spinage, pour plain melted Butter over 
them, and fend Parfley and Butter in a Boat. 


Pidgeons fricafey. 


Cur your Pidgeons as you would do Chick- 
ens for fricafey, fry them a light Brown, then 
put them into fome good Mutton Gravy, and 

ew them near half an Hour, and then put m 
half an Ounce of Morels, a Spoonful of Brows- 
. . ing, 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER,. 119 


ing, and a Slice of Lemon, take up your Pid- 
geons and thicken your Gravy, ftrain it over 
your Pidgeons, and lay round them Force-meat 
Balls, and Garnifh with Pickles. — 


Partridge i” panes. 


_ Ha xr roaft two Partridges, and take the Fleth 
from them, and mix it with the Crumbs of a 
Penny Loaf fteeped in rich Gravy, fix Ounces 
of Beef Marrow, or half a Pound of fat Bacon 
{craped, ten Morels boiled foft and cut {mall, 
two Artichoke Bottoms boiled and fhread fmall, 
the Yolks of three Eggs, Pepper, Salt, Nut- 
meg, and fhread Lemon Peel to your Palate, 
work them together, and bake them in Moulds 
the fhape of an Egg, and ferve them up cold . 
or in Jelly: Garnufh with curled Parfley. | 


To ftew Partridges. 


Truss your Partridges as for roafting, ftuff 
the Craws, and lard: them down each Side of 
the Breaft, then roll a Lump of Butter in Pep- 
per, Salt, and beaten Mace, and put it into the 
Bellies, fow up the Vents, dredge them well . 
and fry them a light Brown, then put them 
into aStew Pan with a Quart of good Gravy, 
a Spoonful of Madeira Wine, the fame of’ 
Muthroom Catchup, a Tea, Spoonful of Lemon 
Pickle, and half the Quantity of Mufhroom 
Powder, one Anchovy, half a Lemon, a Spri 
of Sweet Marjoram, cover the Pan clofe, an 
flew them half an Hour, then take them out 

| | an 


120 The ExPERIENCED 


-and thicken the Gravy, boil it a little, and pour 
it over the Partridges, and ‘lay round them Ar- 
tichoke Bottoms boiled and cut’ in Quarters, 
and the Yolks of four hard Eggs if agreeable. 


To ftew Partridges @ fecond Way. 


Take three Partridges, when drefled, finge | 
them, blanch ‘and beat three Ounces of Al- 
monds, and grate the fame Quantity of fine. 
white. Bread, chop three Anchovies, mix them 
with fix Ounces of Butter, ftuff the Partridges 
and fow them up at both Ends, trufs them and 
wrap Slices of fat Bacon round them, half 
roaft them, then take one and pull the Meat _ 
off the Breaft, and beat it in a Marble Mortar, , 

with the Force-meat it was ftuffed with, have | 
~ ready a ftrong Gravy made of Ham and Veal, | 
ftrain it into a Stew Pan, then take the Bacon off | 
the other two, wipe them clean, and put them | 
into the Gravy with a good deal of Shalots, | 
let them: ftew 'till tender, then take them out,” 
and hoil the Gravy ’till it is almoft as thick as 
Bread Sauce, then add to it a Glafs ‘of Sweet 
Oil, the fame cf Champagne, and the Juice 
of a China Orange, put your Partridges i, 
and ‘make them hort: Garnifh with Slices of 
Bacon and Lemon, a 


To fiew a Hare. * 


WHEN you have paunched and cafed your 
Hare, cut her as for eating, put her into a 
large Sauce Pan, with three Pints of Beef 

. Gravy, 


; 


EnciurishH HOUSE<=KEEPER. 11 


Gtavy, a Pint of Red Wine, a large Onion 
fuck with Cloves, 4 Bundle of Winter Savory, 
a Slice of Horfe-radifh, two Blades of beaten 
Mace, one Anchovy, a Spoonful of Walnut of 
Mum: Carchup, one of Browning, half a Le- 
mon, Chyan and Sdlt to your Tafte, put ona 
clofe Cover, and fet it over a gentle Fire, and 
flew it for two Hours, then take it up into a 
Soup Difh, and thicken your Gravy with a 
Lump of Butter rolled in Flour, : boil ic a little, 
and ftrain it over your Hare: Garnifh with 
Lenton Peel cut like Straws, and ferve it up. 


To jug a Hare. 


.. Cut, the Hare as for eating, feafon it with 
Pepper, Salt, and beaten Mace, put it into a 
Jug or Pitcher, with a clofe Top, put to ita 
Bundle of {weet Herbs, and fet it in a Kettle of 
boiling Water, let. it ftand ‘till it is tender, 
then take it up and pour the Gravy into a 
Tofling Pan, with 2 Glafs of Red Wire, one 
Anchovy, 2 large Onion ftuck with Cloves, a 
little beaten Mace, and Chyan Pepper to your 
Tafte, ‘boil it a little and thicken it; difh up 
your Hare and ftrain the Gravy over it, then 
fend it up. : | 


Zo forendine a Hare. 


Taxe a grown Hare and let her hang up 
four or five Days, then cafe her, and leave on 
the Ears, and take out all the Bones except 
_ the Head, which: mut be left on whole, lay. 
| Q your 


122 ‘§ The ExPpERIENCED 


your Hare flat-on the Table, anid lay. over the 
Infide a Force-meat; and then roll it up to the 
Head, fkewer it with the Head and Ears lean- 
ing back, tie it with Pack-thread as you would } 
a Collar of Veal, wrap it in a Cloth and boi [ 
it an Hour arid a half.in a Sauce Pan, witha § 
clofe Cover on it, with two Quarts of Water; 
when your Liquor is reduced to one Quart, put § 
in a Pint of Red Wine, a Spoonful of Lemon 
-Rickle, and ‘one of Catchup, the fame of f 
Browning, and ftew it ’till it is reduced toa } 
_ Pint, thicken it with Butter rolled in Flour, § 
Jay round your Hare a few Morels, and four 
Slices of Force-meat, boiled in a Caul ofa 
Leg of Veal; when you difh it up, draw the 
Jaw-bones’, and ftick them in the. Eyes for 
Horns, let the Ears lie back on the roll, and } 
ftick a Sprig of Myrtle ‘in the Mouth, ftrain 
over your Sauce, and ferve it it up: Garnith 
with Barberries and Parfley. 


-Forced-meat for the Hare: Take the Crumb 
of a Penny Loaf, the Liver fhread fine, half 
a-Pound of fat Bacon fcraped, a Glafs of Red 
Wine,‘one Anchovy, two Eggs, a little Winter 
Savory, Sweet Marjoram, Lemon, Thyme, Pep- 
per, Salt, and Nutmeg to your Tafte. 


To florendine Rabbits. 


-Taxe thrée young Rabbits, fkin them, but 
leave on the Ears, wafh and dry them with 4 
_ Cloth, take out the Bones carefully, leaving 
the Head whole, then lay ‘them flat, make a 

nee ot Force-meat 


Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. 123 


Force-meat of a quarter of a Pound of Bacon 
{fcraped, it anfwers better than Suet, it makes 
the Rabbits eat tenderer and whiter, add tothe 
Bacon the Crumbs of a Penny Loaf,-a little 
Lemon Thyme, or Lemon Peel fhread fine, 
Parfley chopped fmall, Nutmeg,.Chyan and 
Sale to your Palate, mix them up together with 
an Egg, and fpread it over.the Rabbits, roll 
them up to-the Head; fkewer them ftrait, and 
clofe the Ends to prevent the Force-meéat from 
coming out, fkewer the Ears back and tie them 
in feparate Cloths and boil them half an Hour, 
when you difh them up take out the Jaw-bones 
and ftick them in the Eyes.for Ears, put round 
them Force-meat Balls and:-Mufhrooms, have 
ready a white Sauce made-of Veal Gravy, a 
little Anchovy, the Juice of half a Lemon, or 
a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, ftrain it, take 
a quarter of a Pound of Butter rolled in Flour, 
, {9 as to make the Sauce pretty thick, keep-ftir- 
ing it whilft the Flour is diffolving, beat the 
Yolk of an Egg, put to it-fome thick Cream, 
Nutmeg and Sale, mix. it with the Gravy, and 
let ic fimmer a little over. the-Fire, but not boil, 
for it will Curdle the Cream, pour it over the 
Rabbits and ferve it up. : 


Rabbits. furprized. 


TakE young Rabbits, fkewer them and put 
the fame Pudding as for.the roafted Rabbits, 
when they are roafted, draw out the Jaw-bones 
and ftick them in the Eyes to appear like Horns, 
then take off:all the Meat from-the Back clean 
no | 2 from 


g 


124, The EXPERT ENCED 


from the Bones, but leave them whele, chop | 


the Meat exceeding fine with a little thread Par- 
fley, Lemon Peel, one Ounce of Beef Marrow, 
a Spoonful of good Cream, and a little Sals, 
beat the Yolks of two hard Eggs, and a Prec? 
of Butter the Size of a Walnut, in a Marble 
Mortar, very fine, then mix all together, and 
ut it in a Tofling Pan, when it has ftewed 
ive Minutes, Jay it on the Rabbit where you 
took the Meat off, and put it clofe down with 
your Hand, to appear like a whole Rabbit, 
then heat a Salamander, and Brown it all over, 
pour a good Brown Gravy made as thick as 
- Cream, in the Difh, flick a Bunch of Myrtle 
in their Mouths, apd ferve them up with their 
Livers broiled and frothed. 


To freeafey Rabbits Brows. 
Cur up your Rabbits as fer eating, fry them 


in Butter, a light Brawn, put them into a’ 


- oe ee ie ee cle ell ee a ee 


Tofling Paa, with a Pint of Water, a Tea 


Spooniyl of Lemon Pickle, a large Spoonful 


of Muthroom Catchup, the fame of Browning, | 


ene Anchovy, a Slice of Lemon, Chyan Pepper, 
and Salt to your Tafte, ew them over a 


Fire ‘till they are enough, thicken your Gravy, | 


and ftrain it, difh up your Rabbits, and pour 
‘the Gravy over. i | 


To fricafey Rabbits W bite. 


_ Cup your Rabbiea as before, and put them 
into a Tofling Pan, with a Pint of Yeal Gravy, 
% 


Encuist# HOYSE-KERPER. 325 | 


z Tea Speenful of Lemon Pickle, one Aa- 
chovy, a Slice of Lemon, a little beaten Mace, 
Chyan Pepper, and Salt, few them over a low 
Fire, when they are enough, thicken your 
Gravy with Flour and Butter, {train it, ther 
add the Yolks of two Eggs mixed with a large 
Tea Cupful of thick Cream, and a little Nut- 
meg grated in it, don’t ler it boil, and ferve 
it up. 


CHAP. V. 
Obfervations on Pies. 


R AISED Pies fhould have a quick Oven, 
and well clofed up, or your Pye will fall 
in the Sides; it fhould have no Water put in, 
till the Minute it goes to the Oven, it makes 
the Croft fad, and is a great Hazard of the Pye 
running.—-Light Pafte requires a moderate 
Oven,’ but not too flow, it will make them fad, 
and a quick Oven will catch and burn it, and 
hot give it Time to rife; Tarts that are iced, 
require a flow Oven, or the Iceing will be 
Brown, and the Pafte not be near baked.—Thefe 
Sort of Tarts ought to be made of Sugar Patte, 
, and rojled very thin. a 


To make ceifp Pafte for Tarts. 


Take one Pound of fine Flour mixed with 
one Ounce of Loaf Sugar beat and fifted, make ~ 
 Winso a fluff Pafte with a Gill of boiling Cream, 
a | ap 


126 The ExPERIENCED — 


and three Ounces of. Butter in it, work it well, 


roll it very thin, when you have made your | 


Tarts, beat the White of an Egg a little, rub 


it over them with a Feather, fift a little double | 


refined Sugar over them, and bake them ina 
moderate Oven. | : | 


Iceing a fecond Way. - 


Beat the White of an Egg to a ftrong Froth, » 


put in by Degrees four Ounces of double re- | 
fined Sugar, with as much Gum as will lie on | 


a Six-pence, beat and fifted fine, beat them 
half an Hour, then lay. it- over your Tarts the 
thicknefs of a Straw. 


To make a light Pafte for Tarts: 


TakE one. Pound of fine Flour, beat the 
White of an Egg to a ftrong Froth, mix-it with 
as much Water as will make three quarters of 
a Pound of Flour into. a pretty ftiff Pafté, roll 
itout very thin, lay the. third Part of half a 
Pound of Butter in thin Pieces, dredge it with 


a 


a ea eee ee 


Part of the quarter of your Flour left out for — 
that Purpofe, roll it up tight, then with your | 
Pafte Pin roll it out again, do-fo until all your — 


half Pound of Butter and Flour is done, cut it 
in fquare Pieces, and make your Tarts; it re- 
quires a quicker Oven than crifp Pafte. . 


Zo make Pafte for a.Goofe Pye. 
' Take eighteen Pounds of fine Flour, put i 


Pounds of frefh Butter, and one Pound of ren- 
. dered 


| 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 127 


, dered Beef Suet in a -Kettle of Water, boil it 


two or three Minutes, then pour it boiling hort 
upon your Flour, work it well into a pretty 
fuff Pafte, pull it in Lumps to cool, and raife 
your Pye, bake it in a hot Oven; you may 
make any raifed Pye the fame Way, only take 
a {maller Quantity in Proportion. 


To make a cold Pafte fer difo Pies. 


Take a Pound of fine Flour, rub it into half 
a Pound of Butter, beat the Yolks of two Eggs, 
put them. into as much Water as will make it 
a ftiff Pafte, roll it out, then put your Butter 
on in thin Pieces, duft it with Flour, roll it 
up.tight, when you have done it fo for three 


Times, roll it out-pretty thin, and bake it in 
- a quick Oven. : 


To make Pafte for ‘Cuftards. 


Put half a Pound of Butter in a Pan of 
Water, take two Pounds of Flour, when your 
Butter boils, pour it on your Flour, with as 
much Water as-.will make it into a good Pafte, 


work it well, and when it has cooled a little, raife 


your Cuftards, put a.Paper round the Infide of 
them, when they are half baked fill them.— 
When you make any Kind of Dripping Patte, 
boil it four or five Minutes in a good Quantity 
of Water to take the Strength off it; when 
you make a cold Cruft with Suet, fhread it 
fine, rub Part of it into the Flour, then make 

, | it 


143 The ExPpzERIENCED 


it into a Pafte, and roll it out as before, (only 
| 


firew in Suet inftead of Butter.) 


To make @ Fiench Pye. . 


Fo two Poun ds of Flour, put three quarters 
of a Pound of Butter, make it into a Patte, 
and raife the Walls of the Pye, then roll out 


fome Pafte thin as for a Lid, cut it into Vine 


Leaves, or the Figures of any Moulds you have, if | 


- you have no Moulds, you may make Ufe of a 

Crocran, and pick out pretty Shapes, beat the 
Yolks of two Eggs, and rub the Outfide of the 
Walls of the Pye with it, and lay the Vine 
Leaves or Shapes round the Walls, and rub 
them over with the Eggs, fill the Pye with the 
Bones of the Meat, to keep the Pye in Shape, 
and lay a thin Lid on to keep the Steam in, that 
the Cruft may be well foaked; it is to go to 
Table withouta Lid, — | 


Take a Calf’s Head, wafh ard clean it well, | 
boil ic half an Hour, when it is cold cut it id | 
thin Slices, and put it in a Toffing Pan, with | 
three Pints of Veal Gravy, and three Sweet | 
Breads cut thin, and let it ftew one Hour, with | 


half an Ounce of Morels, and half an Ounce 


of Truffles, then have ready two Calves Feet — 
boiled and boned, cut'them in fmaall Pieces, | 


and put them into your Toffing Pan, witha 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, and one of Brown- 
ing, Chyan Pepper, and a little Salt, when the 
Meat is tender, thicken the Gravy a little with 
Flour and Butter, ftrain it, and. put in a few 

pickled 


| 


! 
b 


_Encrish HOUSE-KEEPER. 129 


pickled Mufhrooms, but frefh ones if you can 
get them,) put the Maat into the Pye you took 
the Bones out, and lay the niceft Part at che 
Top, have ready a quarter of a Hundred of 
Afparagus Heads, ftrew them over the Top of 
the Pye, and ferve it up. 


A Yorkfbire Goofe Pye. 


Take a large fat Goofe, fplit ic down the 
Back, and take all the Bones out, bone a Tur- 
Key, and two Ducks, the fame Way, feafon 
them very well with Pepper and Salt, with fix 
Woodcocks, lay the Goofe down on a clean 
Difh, with the Skin-fide down, and lay the 
Turkey into the Goofe, with the Skin down, 
have ready a large Hare cleaned well, cut in 
Pieces, and ftewed in the Oven, with a Pound 
of Butter, a quarter of an Ounce of Mace beat 
fine, the fame of White Pepper, and Salt to 
your Tafte, ’till the Meat will leave the Bones, 
and fcum the Butter off the Gravy, pick the 
Meat clean off, and beat it in a Marble Mor- 
tar very fine with the Butter you took off, 
and lay it in the Turkey, take twenty-four 
Pounds of the fineft Flour, fix Pounds of But- 
ter, half a Pound of frefh rendered Suet, 
make the Pafte pretty ftiff, and raife the Pye 
oval, roll out a9 Lump of Pafte, and cut it 
in Vine Leaves, or what form you pleafe, rub 


_ the Pye with the Yolks of Eggs, and put on 
_ your Ornaments on the Walls, then turn the 
_ Hare, Turkey, and Goofe Upfide down, and 


lay them in your Pye, with the Ducks at 
R each 


——-- - 


130 The ExpERIENCED 


each End, and the Woodcocks on the Sides, 
make your Lid pretty thick, and put it on; 
you may lay Flowers, or the Shape of the 


Fowls in Pafte, on the Lid, and make a Hole. 


in the Middle of your Lid; the Walls of the 
Pye is to be one Inch and a half higher than 
the Lid, then rub it all over with the Yolks 
of Eggs, and bind it round with three-fold 
Paper, and lay the fame over the Top; it will 
take four Hours baking in a brown Bread 
Oven, when it comes out mielt two Pounds of 
Butter in the Gravy that comes from the Hare, 
and pour it hot in the Pye through a Tun-dihh, 
clofe it well up, and let it be eight or ten Days 
before you cut it; if you fend it any Diftance, 


‘make up the Hole in the Middle with cold 


Butter, to prevent the Air from getting in, 
| A Hare Pye. 


Cur a large Hare in Pieces, feafon it well 
with Mace, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, put it 
ina Jug, with half a Pound of, Butter, cover 
it clofe up with a Pafte or Cloth, fet ic in a 
Copper of boiling Water, and let it flew one 
Hour and a half, then take it out to cool, and 
make a rich Force-meat of a quarter of | 2. 
Pound of f{craped Bacon, two Onions, a Glafs 
of Red Wine, the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, a 
little Winter Savory, the Liver cut fmall, a little 
Nutmeg, feafon it high with Pepper, and Salt, 
mix it well up with the Yolks of three Eggs, 
raife the Pye and lay the Force-meat in the 
Bettom, lay in the Hare, with the Gravy that 

came 


EnctishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 131 


/ came out of the Hare, lay the Lid on, and put 
' Flowers or Leaves on it; it will take an Hour 


and a half to bake it. 


- Itis a handfome Side Difh for a large Table. 
, , ‘ ?. 


4 Salmon Pye. 


Bortz your Salmon as for eating, take off the 


Skin, and all the Bones out, and pound the Meat 


ina Mortar very fine, with Mace, Nutmeg, Pep- 
per, and Salt to your Tafte, raife the Pye, and put 
Flowers or Leaves on the Walls, put the Salmon 


‘in and Lid it, bake it an Hour and a half, when 


it comes out of the Oven take off the Lid, and 
put in four Ounces of rich melted Butter, cut 
a Lemon in Slices, and lay over it, ftick in two 
or three Leaves of Fennel, and fend it to Table 
without a Lid. 3 


A Beef Steak Pye. 


Beart five or fix Rump Steaks very well with 
a pafte Pin, arid feafon them well with Pepper 
and Salt, lay a good puff Pafte round the Dith, 
and put a little Water in the Bottom, then lay 
the Steaks in, with a2 Lump of Butter upon 
every. Steak, and put on the Lid, cur a little 


’ Pafte in what form you pleafe and lay it on. 


A Thatched Houfe Pye. 


TaKe an Earthen Difh that is pretty deep, 
Tub the infide with two Ounces of Butter, then 
{pread over it two Ounces of Vermicelli, make 

R 2 a 


| 


132 The ExpERIENCED 


a good puff Pafte, and roll it pretty thick, and 
jay it on the Difh; take three or four Pigeons, 
feafon them very well with Pepper, and Salt, 
and put a good Lump of Butter in them, and 
lay them in the Difh with the Breaft down, 
and put a thick Lid over them, and bake it in 
a moderate Oven; when enough, take the Difh 
you intend for it; and turn the Pye on toit, § 
and the Vermicelli will appear like Thatch, § 
which gives it the Name of Thatched Houle f 
Pye. 

It is a pretty Side or Corner Difh for a large 

Dinner, or a Bottom for Supper. 


Ege and Bacon Pye to eat cold. 


Streep a few thin Slices of Bacon all Night 
in Water to take out the Salt, lay your Bacon 
in the Difh, beat eight Eggs, with a Pint of 
thick Cream, put in a little Pepper and Salt, 
and pour it on the Bacon, lay over it a good 
cold Rafte, bake it a Day before you want it, in 
a moderate Oven. 


Al Calf’s-Head Pye. 


Parsorxn a Calf’s-Head, when cold cut it in 
Pieces, feafon it well with Pepper and Salt, put ' 
it in a raifed Cruft, with half a Pint of ftrong 
Gravy, bake it an Hour and a half, when it 
comes out of the Oven cut off the Lid, and 
chop the Yolks of three hard Eggs {mall, ftrew 
them over the Top of the Pye, and lay threeor 
four Slices of Lemon, and pour on fome good 

mieite 


Encitish HOUSE-KREEPER. = 133 


melted Butter, and fend it to Table without a 


Lid. 
4 favory Chicken Pye. 


Ler your Chickens be fmall, feafon them 
with Mace, Pepper and Salt, put a Lump of 
Butter into every one of them, lay them in the 
Difh with the Breafts up, and lay a thin Slice of 
Bacon over them, it will give them a pleafant — 
Flavour, then put in a Pint of ftrong Gravy, 
and make a good puff Pafte, lid it and bake it 
in a moderate Oven; French Cooks generally 
put Morels and Yolks of Eggs chopped f{mall. 


4 Mince Pye. 
‘Boi a Neat’s Tongue two Hours, then fkin 


it, and chp it as fmall as poftible, chop very 
{mall three Pounds of frefh Beef Suit, three 


Pounds of good baking Apples, four Pounds 


of Currants clean wafhed, picked, and weil 
dryed before the Fire, one Pound of Jar Rai- 
fms ftoned and chopped fmall, and one Pound 
of Powder Sugar, mix them all together, with 
half an Ounce of Mace, the fame of Nutmeg 
grated, Cloves and Cinnamon a quarter of an 
Ounce of each, and one Pint of French Brandy, 
and make arich puff Pafte; as you fill the Pye 
up, put in alittle candied Citron and Orange cut 
in little Pieces, what you have to {pare, put clofe 
down in a Pot and cover it up, put no Citron 
Aor Orange in ’till you ufe it. 


A 


134 ‘The EXPERIENCED 


A Codling Pye. 


GaTHER {mall Codlings, put them in a clean 
Brafs Pan with Spring Water, lay Vine Leaves 
on them, and cover them with a Cloth wra 
ped round the cover of the Pan to keep in the 
Steam, when they grow foftifh peel off the 
Skin, and put them in the fame Water with 
the Vine Leaves, hang them a great height 
over the Fire to green, when you fee them a 
fine green, take them out of the Water and put 
them ina deep Dith, with as much Powder or 
Loaf Sugar as will fweeten them, make the 
Lid of rich puff Pafte and bake it, when it 
_comes from the Oven take off the Lid, and cut 
it in little Pieces like Sippets, and ftick them 
round the infide of the Pye with the Points 
upward, pour over your Codlings £@ good Cuf- 
tard made thus.———Bail a Pint of Cream, with 
a ftick of Cinnamon, and Sugar enough to 
meke.it a little fweet, let it ftand ’till cold, then 
put in the Yolks of four Eggs well beaten, 
fet it.on the Fire and keep ftirring it ’cill it 
grows thick, but do not let it boil, left ic Cur- 
dle, then pour it into your Pye, pare a little 
Lemon thin, cut the Peel like Straws, and la 
it on-your Codlings over the Top. 


J4n Herb Pye for Lent, 
Taxe Lettice, Leeks, Spinage, Beets, and 


Parfley, of each a Handful, give them a boil, 
then chop them fmall, and have ready boiled 
: 7 


EncitisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 135 


ina Cloth one Quart of Groats, with two or 
three Onions in them, put them in a Frying 
Pan with the Herbs, and a good deal of Salt, 
a Pound of Butter, and a few Apples cut thin, 
flew them a few Minutes over the Fire, fill 
your Difh or raifed Cruft with it: One Hour 
will bake it, then ferve it up. 


4 Venifon Patty. 


Bone a Breaft or Shoulder of Venifon, fea- 
fon it well with Mace, Pepper, and Salt, lay it 
in a deep Pot with the beft Part of a Neck of 
Mutton cut in Slices and laid over the Venifon, 
pour in a large Glafs of Red Wine, put a 
coarfe Pafte over it, and bake it two Hours in 
an Oven, then lay the Venifon in a Dith, and 
pour the Gravy over it, and put one Pound of 

utter over it; make a good Puff Pafte, and 
lay it near half an Inch thick round the Edge 
of the Difh, roll out the Lid which muft be g 
little thicker than the Pafte on the Edge of the 
Difh, and lay it on, then roll out another Lid 
pretty thin, and cut it in Flowers, Leaves or 
whatever Form you pleafe, and lay it on the 
Lid; if you don’t want it, it will keep in 
the Pot that it was baked in eight or ten Days, 
but keep the Cruft on to prevent the Air from ’ 
getting it.—A Breaft and Shoulder of Venifon 
is the moft proper for a Pafty. | 


__ Al Hotcentot Pye. 


Bort and bone two Calf’s-Feet, clean very 
Well a Calf’s-Chitterling, boil it and chop i 
| a, | mall, 


lb 


136 The EXPERIENCED 


fmall, take two Chickens and cut them up as 
for eating, put them in a Stew Pan, with two 
Sweet Breads, a Quart of Veal or Mutton Gravy, 
half an Ounce of Morels, Chyan Pepper and 
Salt to your Palate, ftew them all together an f 
Hour over a gentle Fire, then put in fix Force- f 
meat Balls that have been boiled, and the Yolks { 
of four hard Eggs, and put them in a good } 
raifed Cruft that have been baked for it, ftrew 
over the Top of your Pye, a few green Peas ¢ 
boiled as for eating; or peel and cut fome young - 
green Brocoli Stalks about the Size of Peas, 
give them a gentle boil, and ftrew them over 
the Top of your Pye, and fend it up hot with- 
out a Lid, the fame way as the French Pye. 


4 Bride's Pye. 


Bort two Calf’s-Feet, pick the Meat from f 
the Bones and chop it very fine, fhread {mall 
one Pound of Beef Suet and a Pound of Apples, 
wafh and pick one Pound of Currants very 
fmall, dry them before the Fire, ftone and chop 
a quarter of a Pound of Jar Raifins, a quarter 
of an Ounce of Cinnamon, the fame of Mace 
and Nutmeg, two Ounces of candied Citron, 
two Ounces of candied Lemon cut thin, a Glafs 
of Brandy, and one of Champaign, put them 
in a China Difh with a rich puff Pafte over it, 
roll another Lid and cut it in Leaves, Flowers, 
Figures, and put a Glafs Ring in it. 


An 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 137 


An Eel Pye. 


Sxin and wath your Eels very clean, cut 
them in Pieces one Inch anda half long, fea- 
fon them with Pepper, Salt, and a little dried 
Sage rubbed fmall, raife your Pies about the 
Size af the Infide of a Plate, fill your Pies with 
Eels, lay a Lid qver them, and bake them in a 
quick Qven; they require to be well baked. 


AT: ork{bire Gibles Pye, 


WHEN the Blood is warm put in 4 Tea Cup- 
ful of Groats to fwell, grate the Crumb of 2 
Penny Loaf, and pour a Gill of boiling Milk 
on them, fhread half a Pound of Beef Suet 
yery fine, chop two Leeks, and four or five 
peaves of Sage {mall, three Yolks of Eggs, 
epper, Salt, and Nutmeg to your Palate, mix 
them all up together, have ready the Giblets 
feafoned very well with Pepper, and Salt, and 
lay them round a deep Difh, then put a 
Pound of fat Beef over the Pudding, in the 
.Middle of the Difh, pour in half.a Pint of 
Gravy, lay on 4 good Pafte, and bake it ina 
moderate Oven. 


44 Rook Pye, 


Skin and draw fix young Rooks, and cut 
out the Back Bones, feafon them well with 
Pepper and Salt, put them in a deep Dith, with 
Aquarter of a Pint of Water, lay over, thew 


138 The EXPERIENCED 


half a Pound of Butter, make a good puff 
Pafte, and cover the Difh, lay a Paper over, for 
it requires a good deal of baking. 


AA fweet. Veal Pye. 


Lay Marrow or Beef Suet fhread very fine f 
in the Bottom of your Difh, cut into Steaks the } 
beft End of a Neck of Veal, and lay them in, # 
ftrew over them fome Marrow or Suet, it makes 
them eattenderer, ftone a quarter of a Pound of 
Jar Raifins, chop them a little, wafh half a Pound 
of Currants, and put them over the Steaks, 
cut three Ounces of candied Citron, and two: 
Ounces of candied Orange, and lay them on § 
the Top, boil half a Pint of Sweet Mountain 
or Sack, with a ftick of Cinnamon, and pour § 
itin, lay a light Pafte round the Difh and then f 
lid it, an Hour will bake it; when it comes 
out of the Oven, put in a Glafs of French 
Brandy or Shrub, and ferve it up. 


An Olive Pye. 


Cut a Fillet of Veal into thin Slices, rub 
them over with the Yolks of Eggs, ftrew over 
them a few Crumbs of Bread, fhread a Hitele 
Lemon Peel very fine, and put iton them wich 
a little grated Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, roll 
them up very tight, and lay them in a Pewter 
Difh, pour over them half a Pint of good Gra- 
vy made of Bones, put half a Pound of Butter 
over it, make a light Pafte, and lay it round. 
the Difh, roll the Lid half an Inch thick, and 


lay 


EncitishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 139 


lay it on.—~Make a Beef Olive Pye the fam 
Way. 


A favory Veal Pye. 


CuT a Loin of Veal into Steaks, feafon it 
with beaten Mace, Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, 
lay the Meat in your Difh with Sweet Breads 
feafoned with the Meat, and the Yolks of fix 
hard Eggs, a Pint of Oyfters, and half a Pint 
of good Gravy, lay round your Difh a good 
puff Pafte, half an Inch thick, and cover it 
- with a Lid the fame. thicknefs, bake it in'a 
quick Oven an Hour anda quarter; when you 
take it out of the Oven, cut off the Lid, then 
cut the Lid in eight or ten Pieces, and ftick it 
round the Infide of the Rim, cover the Meat 
with Slices of Lemon, and ferve it up. 


To make favory Patties. 


TAKE one Pound of the Infide of a cold Loin 
of Veal, or the fame Quantity of cold Fowl, 
that have been either boiled or roafted, a 
quarter of a Pound of Beef Suet, chop them 
as {mall as poffible, with fix or eight Sprigs of 
Parfley, feafon them well with half a Nutmeg 
grated fine, Pepper, and Salt, put them ina 
Toffing Pan, with half a Pint of Veal Gravy, 
thicken the Gravy with a little Flour and 
Butter, and two Spoonfuls of Cream, and 
fhake them over the Fire twa Minutes, and 
fill your Patties, 


52. You 


46 The Exrpekrencks 
You muft make your Patties thus: Raife | 
them of an oval Form, and bake them as for 
Cuftards, cut fome long narrow Bits of Pafte, 
and bake them on a Dufting Box, but not to . 
o round, they are for Handles, ‘fill your Pat- 
ties when quite -hot, with the Meat, then fet 
your Handles a-crofs the Patties; they will 
ook like Bafkets if you have nicely pinched 
the Walls of the Patties, when you raifed 
them, five will be a Dilh, you may make them 
with Sugar and Currants inftead of Parfley. 


Fried Patties. 


Cur half a Pound of a Leg of Veal very 
{mall, with fix Oyfters, put the Liquor of.the | 
Oyfters to the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, mix 
them together with a little Salt, put it in 4 
Toffing Pan, with a quarter of a Pound of 
Butter, and keep ftirring it for three or four 
Minutes over the Fire, then make a good puff 
Pafte, roll it out, and cut it in little Bits about 
the Size of a Crown Piece, fome round, fquare, 
and three-cornered, put a little of the Meat 
upon them, and lay a Lid on them, turn up 
the Edges as you would a Pafty, to keep the 
Gravy in, fry them in a Panful of Hogs-lard; 
they are a pretty Corner Dith for Dinner of 
Supper: If you want them for Garnith to a 
Cod’s-Head, put in only Oyfters; they are very 
pretty for a Calf’s-Head Hath, | 


Sweet 


Encrist HOUSE-KEEPER, 1a1 


Sweet Patties. 


T axe the Meat of a boiled Calf’s-Foot, two 
large Apples, and one Ounce of candied O- 
range, chop them very finall, grate half a 
Nurnteg, mix them with the Yolk of an Egy 
a Spoonful of French Brandy, and a quarter of 
‘a Pound of Currahts clean wafhed and dried, 
take a gvood puff Pafte, roll it in different 
Shapes, as the fried ones, ahd fill them the 
famre Way; you may either fry or bake them, 
They are a pretty Side Difh for Supper. 


Common Patties. « 


‘Tax the Kidney Part of a very fat Loin of 
Veal, chop the Kidney, Veal, and Fat very 
finall altogether, feafon it with Mace, Pepper, 
arid Salt, to your Tafte, raife little Patties the 
Sizé of a Tea Cup, fill them with your Meart, 

ut thin Lids on them, bake them very crifp; 
five is enough fot'a Side Dith, 


To make tonimon Fritters. 


Tate half a Pint of Ale, and two Epps, beat 
in as mmtch Flour as will make it rather chicker 
_ than a common Pudding, with Nutmeg, and 
Sugar to yout Tafte, let ir ftand rhree or four 
Minutes to rife, then drop them with a Spoon 
into a Pan of boiling Lard, fry thema light . 

Brown, drain them on a Sieve, ferve them up 
| | wit 


I. 2 - The ExrPERILENCED 


w ch Sugar grated over them, and Wine Sauce 
in a Boat. 


To make Apple Fritters. - 


Pare the largeft baking Apples you can get, 
_ tide out the Core with an Apple Scraper, cut 
-.t2m in round Slices, and dip them in Batter; 
3; ade as for common Fritters, fry them Crifp, 
‘jrve them up with Sugar grated over them, 
$id Wine Sauce in a Boat. 
» They are proper for a Side Dith for Supper. 


To make German Puffs. 
Pur half a Pint of good Milk into a Toffing 


Pan, and dredge in Flour ’till it is thick as hafty | 
Pudding, keep ftirring it over a flow Fire til | 


it is all of a Lump, then put it in a Marble 
Mortar, when it is cold put to it the Yolks af 
eight ERES, four Ounces of Sugar, a Spoonful 
of Rofe 

Rind of half.a 


ater, grater a little Nutmeg, andthe , 
emon, beat them together an | 


Hour or more, when it looks light, and bright, | 


drop them into a Pan of boiling Lard, with a 
Tea Spoon, the Size of a large Nutmeg, they 
will rife and look like a large yellow Plumb if 
they are well beat: As you Fry them, lay them 
on a Sieve to drain, grater Sugar. round your 
Dith, ‘and ferve them up with Sack for Sauce. 

It is a proper Corner Dith for Dinner or Supper. 


To 


fo 


Encuisp HOUSE-KEEPER. 143 


To make Gofers. 


Bear three Eggs well, with three Spoonful 
of Fleur, and a little Salt, then mix them with 
a Pint of Milk, and an Ounce of Sugar, half a 
‘Nutmeg grated, beat them well together, then 
make your Gofer Tongs hot, rub them with 
frefh Butter, fill the Bottom part of your Tongs 
and clap the Top upon, then turn them, and 
when a fine brown on both Sides, put them in 
a Dith, and pour white Wine Sauce over them, 
five is enough for a Difh, don’t lay them one 
upon another, it will make them foft.—You 
may put in Currants if you pleafe. 


To make Wafer Pancakes. 


Bear four Eggs well, with two Spoonfuls of 
fine Flour, and two of Cream, one Ounce of 
Loaf Sugar, beat and fifsed, half a Nutmeg 
grated, put a-little cold Butter in a clean Cloth, 
and rub your Pan well with it, pour in your 
Batter and make it as thin as a Wafer, fry it 
only on one Side, put them on a Difh, and 


grater Sugar betwixt every Pancake, and fend 
them hot to the Table. — 


To make Cream Pancakes. 


Taxe the Yolks of two Eggs, mix them with 
half a Pint of good:Cream, two Ounces of 
Sugar, rub your Pan with Lard, and fry them 


as thin as poffible, grater Sugar over them, 
and ferve them up hot. 7; 
() 


144 The ExPERIENGED 


To make Clary Paneakes, 


_ Beat three Eggs, with three Spoonfuls of {| 
fine Flour, and a little Salt, exceeding well, 
mix them with a Pint of Milk, and put Lard 
into your Pan, when it is hot, pour jn your 
Batter as thin as poffible, then lay in you 
Clary Leaves, and pour a little more Batter 
thin over them, fry them a fine Brown, and 
ferve them yp. 


To make Batter Pancakes, 


Beat three Eggs, with a Pound of Flour, 
very well, put to it a Pint of Milk, and a little 
Salt, fry them in Lard er Butter, grate Sugar 
over them, cut them in Quarters, and ferve 
them up. 


CHAP. VI. 
Obfervations on Puddings. 


READ and Cuftard Puddings require 
BR Time, and a moderate Oven, that will 
raife, and not burn them; Batter and Rice 
Puddings a quick Oven, and always Butter the 
Pan or Difh before you pour the Pudding in; 
when you hoil a Pudding, take great Care 
your Cloth is yery cleay, dip it in boiling Wa- 
ter, and Flour it well, and give your Clotha 

; if you bow it in'a Bafon, Butter it, and 
O 


Enciish 'HOUSE-KEEPER. 145 


boil it in Plenty of Water, and turn it often, 
and don’t cover the Pan, when enough take it 
up into a Bafon, let it ftand a few Minutes to 
cool, then untie the String, wrap the Cloth 
round the Bafon, lay your Difh over it, and 
‘turn the Pudding out, and take the Bafon and 
-Cloth off very carefully, for very often a light 
Pudding is broken in turning out. 


A Hunting Pudding. 


BeaT eight Eggs, and mix them with a 
Pint of good Cream, and a Pound of Flour, 
beat them well together, and put to thema 
Pound of Beef Suet chopped very fine, a Pound 
of Currants well cleaned, half a Pound of Jar 
_ Raifins ftoned and chopped fmall, a quarter of 
a Pound of Powder Sugar, two Ounces of can- 
died Citron, the fame of candied Orange cut 
{mall, grate a largé Nutmeg, and mix all well 
together with half a Gill of Brandy, put it in a 
Cloth, and tie it up clofe, it will take four 
Hours boiling. 


A boiled Cuftard Pudding. 


Borx aStick or two of Cinnamon, 1n aQuart 
of thin Cream, with a quarter of a Pound of 
Sugar, when it is cold, put in the Yolks of fix 
Eggs well beat, and mix them together, fet it 
over a flow Fire, and ftir it round one Way, 
all it grows pretty thick, but don’t let it bail, 
take it off and let it ftand ’till it be quite cold, 


Butter a Cloth very well, and dredge it with 
: T Flour, ¢ 


146 The ExpERIENCED 


Flour, put‘in ‘your Cuftard, and tie it up very 
‘clofe, it will take three quarters of an Hour 
‘boiling, when you ‘take it up, ‘put it in 2 
round Bafon to cool a little, then untie the 
Cloth, and lay the Difh on the Bowl, and tara 
it Upfide down; be careful how you take'off | 
the Cloth, for a very little will break the Pud- § 
. ding, grate over it a little Sugar; for Sauce, 
White Wine thickened with Flour and Butter, 
put in the Dith. ‘ 


A Lemon Pudding. 


Biancu and beat eight Ounces of ‘Jordan | 
Almonds, with Orange Flour Water, add to 
-~--— half a Pound of cold Butter, the Yolks 

1 Eggs, the quice of a large Lemon, half 
ind grated fine, work them in a Marble 
1, or Wooden Bafon, ‘till they look white 
ght, lay a- good puff Pafte pretty thin in 
xttom of a China Difh, and pour in your 
_ruaaing ; it will take half an Hour baking. 


A ground Rice Pudding. 


Boi four Ounces of ground Rice, in Water, 
“till it be foft, then beat the Yolks of four 
Eggs, and put to them a Pint of Cream, four 
Ounces of Sugar, and a quarter of a Pound of 
Butter, mix’ them all well together; you may 
either boil or bake it. ° 


- Ae 


- 


EnchishH HOUSE-KEHPER. 14 


fn Orange Pudding. 


- Bou. the Rind of a Seville Orange very foft, 

beat it in a Marble Mortar, with the Juice, put 
to it two Naples Bifcuits grated very fine, half 
a. Pound of Butter, a quarter of a Pound of 
Sugar, afid the Yolks-of fix Eggs, mix them 
well together, lay a good puff Pafte round the 
Kdge of your China Difh, bake it in a gentle 
Oven half an Hour; you may make a Lemon 
Pudding the fame Way, by putting ina Lemon 
inftead of the Orange. 7 


Calf’s-Foot Pudding. «. 


Bort a Gang of Calf’s-Feet, take the Meat 
from the Bones, and chop it exceeding fine, 
put to it the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, a Pound 
of Beef Suet fhread very. fmall, half a Pint of 
Cream, eight Eggs, a Pound of Currants well 
cleanfed, four Ounces of Citron cut {mall, two 
Ounces of candied Orange cut like Straws, a 
large Nutmeg grated, and a large Glafs of 
Brandy, mix them all very well together, But- 
ter your Cloth, and duft it with Flour, tie it 
clofe up, boil it three Hours; when you take’ 
the Pudding up, it is beft to put it in a Bowl 
that will juft hold ic, and let it ftand a quarter 
of antiour, before you turn it out, lay your 
Difh upon the Top. of the Bafon, and turn it 

Upfide down. - 


| ‘Pe | AA 


148 ° The ExrpzrreENcED - 


A bastled Rice Pudding. 


Bor. a quarter of a Pound of Rice in Wa-_ 
ter, till ic be-foft, and put it in a Hair Sieve to. 


drain, beat it. in a Marble Mortar, with the 


Yolks of five Eggs, a quarter of a Pound.of | 


Butter, the fame of Sugar, grater a {mall Nut-. 
meg, and the Rind of half a Lemon, work 
them well together for half an Hour, then 
put in half a Pound of Currants well wathed 


and cleaned, mix them well together, butter | 
your Cloth and tye it up, boil it an Hour, and — 


ferve it up with White Wine Sauce. 


Bread | Pudding. | 


TAKE the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, and pour | 


on them a Pint of good Milk boiling hot, when 


it is cold, beat it very fine, with two Ounces | 


of Butter, and Sugar to your Palate, grater 


halr a Nutmeg in it, beat it up with four Eggs, | 
and put them in and beat all together near half | 


an Hour, tie it in a Cloth and boil it an Hour, 
you may put in half a Pound of Curants for 
change, and pour over it White Wine Sauce. 


_ Lo make a Sippet Padding. 


Cut a Penny Loaf as thin as poffible, ‘put a 
layer of Bread in the Bottom of a Pewter Dith, 
then ftrew over it a layer of Marrow, or Beef 
Suet, a handful of Currants, then lay a layer 
of Bread, and fo on ‘till you fill your Difh; as 

. the 


Encirish HOUSE-KEEPER. 149 


the firft lay, let the Marrow, or Suet, and Cur- 
‘rants be at the Top, beat four Eggs and mix 
‘them with a Quart of Cream, a quarter of a 
Pound. of Sugar, and a large Nutmeg grated, 
pour it on your Difh and bake it in a moderate 
‘Oven, when it comes out of the Oven, pour 
‘over it Wine Sauce. 


/in Apricot Pudding. 


Take twelve large Apricots, pare them, and 
give them a fcald in Water ’tll they are foft, 
then take out the Stones, grater the Crumb of 
a Penny Loaf, and pour on it a Pint of Cream 
boiling hot, jet it ftand nll half cold, then add 
a quarter of a Pound of Sugar, and the Yolks 
of four Eggs, mix all together with a Glafs of 
Madeira Wine, pour it in a Difh with thin puff 
Pafte round, bake it half an Hour in a mode- 
Yate Oven. | - 


A Tranfparent Pudding. 


BeaT eight Eggs very well, and put them 
in a Pan, with haif 

fame weight of Loaf Sugar beat fine, a little 
grated Nutmeg, fet it on the Fire and keep ftir- 
Ting it ’till.it thickens like buttered Eggs, then 


put it in a Bafon to cool, roll a rich puff Pafte - 


| very thin, lay it round the Edge of a China 

Difh, then pour in the Pudding, and bake it 

- i9 a moderate Oven half an Hour, it will cut 
light and clear. : 

It is a pretty Pudding for a Corner for Dinner, 

and a Middle for Supper. 


A 


‘i 


a Pound of Butter, andthe | 


150 . The EXPERIENCED 


A Vermicelli. Pudding. 


Bort. four Ounces of Vermicelli im a Pint 
of new Milk ’till it is foft, with a ftick or two 
of Cinnamon, then put in half a Pint of thick § 
Cream, a quarter of a Pound of Butter, a 
quarter of a Pound of Sugar, and the Yolks 
of four beaten Eggs.—Bake it in an Earthen 
Dith without a Patte. 


M4 ved Sago Pudding. 


TakrE two Ounces of Sago, boil it 1n Water 
with a Stick of Cinnamon ‘till it be quite fofe 
and thick, let 1¢ ftand ‘till quite cold, in the 
mean Time grate the Crumb of a Halfpenny 
Loaf, and pour’ over it a large Glafs of Red 
Wine, chop four Ounces of Marrow, and half 
a Pound of Sugar, and the Yolks of four - 
beaten Eggs, beat them all together for a . 
quarter of an Hour, lay a puff Pafte round 
your Difh, and fend -it to the Oven; when it 
comes back ftick it over with blanched Al- 
monds cut the long way, and bits of Citron 
cut the fame, fend it to Table. 


A boiled 'Tanly Pudding. 


Grate four Naples Bifcuits, put as much 
Cream boiling hot as will wet them, beat the 
Yolks of four Eggs, have ready a few chopped 
Tanfy Leaves, with as much Spinage as will 
make it a pretty Green, be careful you dont 

. put 


~ 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. ru 


‘put too’ much Tanfey in, it will make ic bitter, 
‘qrix all together when the Cream is cold with 
alitdle Sugar, and fet it over a flow Fire ‘till ic 
igrows thick, then take it off, and when cold 
put it in a Cloth, well buttered and flowered, 
tye it up clofe, and let it boil three quarters of 
an Hour, ‘take it-up in a Bafon, ‘and let it ftand 
one quarter, then turn it carefully out, and put 
White ‘Wine Sauce'round it. 


“4 "Yanfy ‘Pudding ‘with Almonds. 


BLancu four Ounces of Almonds, and beat 
them very fine with Rofe Water, flice a French 
Roll very thin, .pour on a Pint of Cream _boil- 
ing hot, beat four Eggs very well, and mix 
‘with the Eggs when beaten a little Sugar and 
grated Nutme g a Glafs of ‘Brandy, a little 
Juice of Tanfy, and the Juice of Spinage to 
make it Green, put all the Ingredients into a 
Stew Pan, with a quarter of a» Pound of But- 
ter, and give it-a-gentle boil; you may ‘either 
boil it or bake it in a Difh, either with a Cruft 
or Writing Paper. 


A Tanfy Pudding of ground Rice. 


Bory fix Ounces of ground Rice in a Quart 
of good Milk, ’till ic is foft, then put in half a 
Pound of Butter, with fix Eggs very well beat, 
and Sugar and Rofe Water to make it palata- 
ble, beat fome Spinage in a Mortar, with a few 
Leaves. of Tanfy, fqueeze out the Juice through 

aClorh, and put it in, mix all well together, 
oo : cover 


12 |. The ExrERIENCED 


-cover you Difh with Writing Paper well bun- 
tered, and pour it in, three-quarters of ag 
' Hour will bake it; when you difh it up ftick 
it all over with a Seville or. Sweet Orange in 
half quarters. Ck 


“A Sago Pudding another Way. 


Bort two Ounces of Sago ’till it is quite 
thick in Milk, beat fix ESBS leaving out three 
of the Whites, put to ic half a Pint of Cream, 
two Spoonfuls of Sack, Nutmeg and Sugar to 
your Tafte; put a Pafte round your Dith, 


Little Citron Puddings. 


Take half a Pint of Cream, one Spoonful | 
‘of fine Flour, two Ounces of Sugar, a little | 
Nutmeg, mix them all well together, with the | 
Yolks of three Eggs, put it in Tea Cups, and . 
flick in it two Ounces of Citron cut very thin, | 
bake them in‘a pretty quick Oven, and turn > 
them out upon a China Difh.—Five is enough 

for a Side Dith. | ; | 


A baked Tanfy Pudding. 


Grate the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, pour 
on them a Pint of boiling Milk, with a quar 
ter of a Pound of Butter in it, let it ftand ’rill 
.almoft cold, then beat five Eggs and put them 
in with a quarter of a Pound of Sugar, a large 
Nutmeg grated, and a Glafs of Brandy, ftir 
them about and put them in a Tofling Pats 

Wi 


EnchisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 153 


‘ ssith as much juice of Spinage as will green 
zt, and a little Tanfy chopped fmall, ftir it 
about over a flow Fire ’till ic grows thick, but- 
ter a Sheet of Writing Paper and lay it in the 
Bottom of a Pewter Difh, pin the Corners of ° 
the Paper to make it fland one Inch above the 
Dith to keep the Pudding from {preading,, and 
let.it ftand three quarters of an Hour in the 
Oven; when baked, put the Difh over it you 
fend it up in, and turn it out upon it, take off 
the Paper, ftick it round with a Seville Orange 
cut in-half quarters, ftick one quarter in the 
Middle, and ferve ic up with Wine Sauce. It 
will look as green as if ¥t had not been baked 
when turned out. 


4 arcen Codling Pudding. 


GREEN a Quart of Codlins, as for a Pye, 
rub them through a Hair Sieve with the Back 
of a Wooden Spoon, and as much of the Juice 
of Beets as will green your Pudding, put in 
the Crumib of half a Penny Loaf, half a Pound 
of Butter, and three Eggs well beaten; beat them 
all together with half a Pound of Sugar, and - 
two Spoonfuls of Cyder; lay a good Pafte 
round the Rim of the Difh, and pour it in— 
Half an Hour will bake it. 


To make a common Rice Pudding. 


Wasu half a Pound of Rice, put to it three 
Pints of good Milk, mix it well with a quarter - 
- Of a Pound of Butter, a Stick or two of Cina- 
| U mon 


I1g4 - The ExPERIENCED- 


mon beaten fine, half a Nutmep grated, one 
Egg well beat, a little Salt, and Sugar to your 
Taife—One Hour and a half will bake it ina, 
quick Oven; when it comes out take off the | 
Top, and put the Pudding in Breakfaft Cups, 
turn them into a hot Difh like little Puddings, 
and ferve it up 


A Marrow Pudding. | 


Pour on the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, a Pint of 
Cream boiling hot, cut a Pound of Beef Mar- 
row very thin, beat four Eggs very well, then 
add a Glafs of Brandy, with Sugar and Nut- 
meg to your Tafte, and mix them all well up | 
together; you may either boil or bake it, three 

| 


quarters of an Hour will do it, cut two Ounces 
of Citron very thin, and ftick them all over it 
when you Dith it up. 


Marrow Pudding a fecond way. 

Har boil four Ounces of Rice, fhread half | 
a Pound of Marrow very fine, ftone a quarter 
of a Pound of Raifins, chop them very fmall, - 
with two Ounces of Currants well cleaned, | 
‘beat four Eggs a quarter of an Hour, mixit | 
all together with a Pint of good Cream, 3 | 
Spoonful of Brandy, Sugar and Nutmeg to | 
your Tafte; you may either bake it or put it | 
Hogs Skins. 


Marrow 


—_w 


Enctis#H HOUSE-KEEPER. 55 


Marrow Pudding @ third way. 


Biancu half a Pound of Almonds, put them 
in cold Water all Night, the next Day beat them 
in a Marble Mortar very fine, with Orange 
Flower, or Rofe Water, take the Crumb of a 
Penny Loaf, and pour on them a Pint of boil- 
ing Cream, whilft the Cream is cooling, beat 
the Yolks of four Eggs and two Whites a quar- 
ter of an Hour, add a little Sugar, and grate 
Nutmeg to your Palate, have ready fhread the 
Marrow of two Bones, and mix them all well 
together with a little candied Orange cut {mall, 
this is ufually made to fill in Skins, but isa 
good baked Pudding; if you put it in Skins 
don’t fill them ‘too full for it will fwell, but 
boil them gently. 


White Puddings #7 Skins, 


Wasu half a Pound of Rice in warm Water, 
boil it in Milk ’till it is foft, put it in a Sieve 
to drain, blanch and beat half a Pound of 
Jordan Almonds very fine, with Rofe Water, 
wafh and dry a Pound of Currants, then cut 
in fmall bits a Pound of Hog’s Lard, take fix 
Eggs and beat them well, half a Pound of 
Sugar, a large Nutmeg grated, a Stick of Cin- 
namon, a little Mace, and a little Salt, mix 
em very well together, fill you Skins and boil 
them. 


U 2 Ta 


eS 


—— a it ie 


156, The ExrPERIENCED 


To make a Quaking Pudding. 


Bort a Quart of Cream, and let it ftand ‘till 
almoft cold, then beat four Eggs a full quarter 
of an Hour, with a Spoonful and a half of 
Flour, then miix them with your Cream, add 
Sugar and Nutmeg to your Palate, tie 1¢ clof 
up in’ a Cloth well buttered, and let it Boul aa 
Hour and turn it carefully out. 


To make Yorkfhire Pudding #o bake under 
Meat. | 


Beat four Eggs with four large Spoonfuls 
of fine Flour, and a little Salt, for a quarter of 
an Hour, put to them one Quart and a half of 


_ Milk, mix them well together, then Butter 2 


Dripping Pan and fet it under Beef, Mutton, 
or a Loin of Veal when roafting, and when it 
is brown,. cut it in fquare Pieces and turn it 
over when well browned on the under Side, 
fend it to Table on a Dith. 

You may mix a boiled Pudding the fame way. 


AA boiled Milk Pudding. 


Pour a Pint of new Milk boiling hot on three 
Spoonfuls of fine Flour, beat the Flour and 
Milk for half an Hour, then put in three Eg 
and beat it a little longer, grate in half a 
Spoonful of Ginger, dip the Cloth in boring 
Water, Butter it well, and Flour it, put in the 
Pudding and tie it clofe up, and boil it an Hour; 

, it 


- 
> 


Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. ts57 


Ht requires great Care when you turn it out; 
‘pour over it thick melted Butter. 


Herb Pudding. 


Or Spinage, Beets, Parfley, and Leeks, take 
each a Handful, wafh them, and give them a 
{cald in boiling Water, then fhread them very 
fine, have ready a Quart of Groats fteeped in 
warmi Water half an Hour, and a Pound of 
Hog’s Lard cut in little Bits, three large Onions 
chopped {fmiall, and three Sage Leaves hacked 
fine, put in a little Salt, mix all well together, 
and tie it clofe up; it will require to be taken 
up in boiling to flacken the String a little. 


Goosberry Pudding. 


Scatp half a Pint of green Goofberries in 
Water ‘till they are foft, put them into a Sieve 
to drain, when cold, work them through an 
Hair Sieve with the back of a clean Wooden 
Spoon, add to them half a Pound of Sugar, 
and the fame of Butter, four Ounces of Naples 
Bifcuits, beat fix Eggs very well, and then mix 
all together, and Beat them a quarter of an 
Hour, pour it in an Earthen Difh without 2 
Pafte ; bait an Hour will bake it. 


To make Rafpberry Dumplins. 


Make a good cold Pafte, roll it a quafter of 
an Inch thick, and fpread over it Rafpberry 
fam to your own liking, roll it up,. and boil 
| it 


158 The ExPERIENCED 


it in a Cloth one Hour at leaft, take it up, and 
cut it in five Slices, and lay one in the. Middle 
and the other four round it, pour a little good 
melted Butter in the Difh, and grate fine Su- 
gar round the Edge of the Dith. 


_ It is proper for a Corner or Side for Dinner. 


To make Damfon Dumplins. 


Make a good hot Pafte Cruft, roll it pretty 
thin, lay it in a bafon, and put in what Quan- 
tiry of Damfons you think proper, wet the 
Edge of the Pafte, and clofe it up, boul it ina 
Cloth one Hour, and fend it up whole, pour 
over it meJted butter, and grate fugar round 
the Edge of the Difh: Note, you make any 
kind of preferved Fruit the fame Way. 


Zo make Apple Dumplins. 


PaRE your Apples, take out the Core with 
an Apple-fcraper, fill the Hole with Quince, 
or Orange Marmalade, or Sugar, which fuits 
you, then take a Piece of cold Pafte, and make 
a Hole in it, as if you was going to make a 
Pye, lay in your Apple, and put another Piece 
of Pafte in the fame Form, and clofe it up 
round the Side of your Apple, it is much bet- 
ter than gathering it in a Lump at one End, 
tie it in a Cloth, and boil it three quarters of ‘an 
Hour, pour melted Butter over them, and ferve 
them up, five is enough for a Dith.. : 


To 


8 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 155 


‘To make a Sparrow Dumplin. 


Mix half a Pint of good Milk, with three 
Eggs, a little Salt, and as much Flour as will 
make it a thick Batter, put a Lump of Butter 
rolled in Pepper and Salt in every Sparrow, 
‘mix them in the Batter, and tie them in a Cloth, 
boil them one Hour and a half, pour melted 
Butter over them, and ferve it up. 


To make a Barm Dumplin. 


Take a Pound of Flour, mix a Spoonful of 
Barm in it, witha little Salt, and make it into 
a light Pafte with warm Water, let it lie one 
Hour, then make it up into round Balls, and 
tie them up in little Nets, and put them in a 
Pan of boiling Water, don’t Cover them, it will 
make them fad; nor don’t let them boil fo faft 
as to let the Water boil over them, turn them 

_ when they have been in fix or feven Minutes, 
and they will rife through the Nets and look 
like Diamonds, twenty Minutes will boil them; 
ferve them up and pour {weet Sauce over them. 


To make Clary Fritters. 


BEaT two Eggs exceeding well with one Spoon 

_ Tulof Cream, one of Ratifia Water, one Ounce 
of Loaf Sugar, and two Spoonfuls of Flour, 
grate in half a Nutmeg, have ready wathed 
and dried Clary Leaves, dip them in the bat- 

_ ter and fry them a nice brown; férve them 


up 


360 The EXPERIENCED 


up with Quarters of Seville Oranges laid round 
them, and good melted Butter in a Boat. 


To make Rafpberry Fritters. — 


GraTE two Naples Bifcuits, pour over them 
half a Gill of boiling Cream, when it is ale 
moft cold, beat the Yolks of four Eggs toa 
ftrong Froth, beat the Bifcuits a little, then 
beat both together exceeding well, put to x 
two Ounces of Sugar, and as much Juice of 
Rafpberry as will make it a pretty pink Co- 
lour, and give it a proper fharpnefs, drop them 
into a Pan of boiling Lard, the fize of a Wal- 
_nut; when you difh them up, ftick Bits of 
Citron in fome, and blanched Almonds cz 
Jength-ways in others; lay round them greca 
and yellow Sweetmeats and ferve them up 

They are a pretry Corner Difh for either Din- 
ner or Supper. 


To make a Tanfy Fritter. 


Take the Crumb of a Penny Loaf, pour ag | 
them half a Pint of boiling milk, let it ftand | 


an Hour, then put in as much Juice of Tan- 


fy as will give ita flavour, but not to make | 


it bitter, then make it a pretty green with the: 
Juice of Spinage, put to it a Spoonful of Ra- 
tifia Water or Brandy, {weeten it to your tafe, 


grate the Rind of half a Lemon, beat the! 


Yolks of four Eggs, mix them all together, 
put them in a Tofling Pan with four Ounces 
of Butter, ftir it over a flow Fire ’till it is quit 

thick, 


Encuist HOUSE-KEEPER, 161 


thick, take it off and let it ftand two or three 
Hours, then drop them into a Pan full of boil- 
ing Lard, a Spoonful is enough for a Fritter, 
ferve them up with Slices of Orange round 
them, grate Sugar over them, and Wine Sauce 
in a Boat. 


To make Plumb Fritters with Rice. 
| 


Grate the Crumbs of a Penny Loaf, pour 
over them a Pint of boiling Cream, or good 
' Milk, let them ftand four or five Hours, then 
beat it exceeding fine, put to it the Yolks of 
five Eggs, four Ounces of Sugar, and a Nur- 
meg grated, beat them well together, and fry 
them in Hogs Lard, drain them on a Sieve, 
and ferve them up with White Wine Sauce 
under them. 


N. B. You may put Currants in if you pleafe. 


x - pPaRT 


CHAP VIL ! 


Obfervations on making Decorations for e 
Table. 


’ WF HEN you fpin a Silver Web, or a 
Defert, always take particular Care 

’ your Fire is clear, and a Pan of Wa- 

ter upon the Fire, to keep the Heat 

from your Face and Stomach, for fear the Heat 


fhould make you faint; you mutt not fpin it 
| 


before a Kitchen Fire, for the fmaller the Grate 
is, fo that the Fire be clear and hot, the better 
able you will be to fit a long Time before it, 
for if you fpin a whole Defert, you will be fe- 
veral Hours in {pinning it; be fure to havea 
Tin Box to put every Bafket in as you {pin 
them, and cover them from the Air, and keep 
them warm, until you have done the whole as 
your Receipt directs you. 

If you fpin a Gold Web, take Care your | 
Chafing Dith is burnt clear, before you fet it : 
upon the Table where your Mould is, fet your | 
Ladle on the Fire, and keep ftirring it witha_ 
Wood Skewer ’till it juft boils, then let it cool 
a little, for it will not {pin when it is boilin 
hot, and if it grows cold it is equally as bad, 
but as it canle on the idee mf your Ladle, dip | 

the | 
| 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER.,. 163 


the Point of your Knife in, and begin to fpin 


‘ 
, 


found your Mould as long as it will draw, 
then heat it again; the only Art is tokeepit of a 
proper heat, and it will draw out like a fine 
Thread, and of a Gold Colour; it 1s a great 
Fault to put in too much Sugar at a Time, for 
often heating takes the Moifture out of the 


, Sugar, and burns it, therefore the beft Way is 


to put in a little at a Time, and ‘clean out your 
Ladle. 


When you make a Hen or Bird next, let 
part of your Jelly be fet in your Bowl, before 
you put on your Flummery, or Straw, for if 
your Jelly is warm, they will fettle to the Bot- 
tom, and mix together, 


If it be a Fifh Pond, or a Tranfparent Pud- 
ding, put in your Jelly at three different Times, 
to make your Fifh or Fruit keep at a proper 
Diftance, one from another, and be fure your 
Jelly is very clear and ftiff, or it will not thew 
the Figures, nor keep whole; when you turn 


them out, dip your Bafon in warm Water, as 


your Receipt directs, then turn your Difh or _ 
Salver upon the Top of your Bafon, and turn 
your Bafon upfide down. 


When you make Flummery, always obferve 


to have it pretty thick, and your Moulds wet 
In cold Water, before you put in your Flum- 
_ Mery, or your Jelly will fettle to the Bottom, 


poe 


and the Cream {wim at the Top, fo that it will 
look to be two different Colours. rf 
X 2 


164 The ExPERIENCED 


If you make Cuftards, do not let them boil 
after the Yolks are in, but ftir them all one. 
Way, and keep them of a good Heat ’till they 
be thick enough, and the rawnefs of the Eggs 
is gone off. 


When you make Whips, or Syllabubs, raife 
your Froth with a Chocolate Mill, and lay it 
upon a Sieve to drain, it will be much prettier, 
and will lie upon your Glaffes, without mixing 
with your Wine, or running down the Sides of 
your Glaffes ; and when you have made any of 
the before-mentioned Things, keep them ina 
cool, airy Place, for a clofe Place will give them 
a bad Tafte, and foon fpoil. 


To fpin a Silver Web for covering Sweet- 
| |: Meats. 


TAKE a quarter of a Pound of treble-refined 
Sugar, in one Lump, and fet it before a mode- 
_ rate Fire, on the middle of a Silver Salver, or’ 
Pewter Plate, fet it a little aflant, and when it 
begins to run like clear Water to the Edge of 
the Plate or Salver, have ready a Tin Cover, or 
China Bowl fet on a Stool, with the Mouth 
downward, clofe to your Sugar, that it may 
not cool by carrying too far, then take a clean 
Knife, and take up as much of the Syrup as 
the Point will hold, and a fine Thread will 
come from the Point, which you muft draw 
as quick as poffible backwards and forwards, 
and alio around the Mould, as long as it will 
{pin from the Knife; ‘be very caretul you do 

noc 


: 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 16s 


‘. not drop the Syrup on the Web, if you do, it 
will fpoil it, then dip your Knife into the 
_ Syrup again, and take up more, and fo kee 
- fpinning ‘till your Sugar is done, or your Web 
is thick enough; be fure you do not let the 
. Knife touch the Lump on the Plate that is not 
melted, it will make 1t brittle, and not fpin at 
, all, if your Sugar is {pent before your Web is 
‘done, put frefh Sugar on a clean Plate or Sal- 
. ver, and not fpin from the fame Plate again, 
if you don’t want the Web to cover the Sweet- 
'Meats immediately, fet it in a deep Pewter 
' Difh, and cover it with a Tin Cover, and lay a 
Cloth over it, to prevent the Air from getting 
toit, and fet it before the Fire, (it requires to 
be kept warm, or it will fall) when your Din- 
ner or Supper is difhed, have ready a Plate or 
' Difh, of the fize of your Web, filled with dif- 
ferent coloured Sweetmeats, and fet your Web 
over it. 
It is pretty for a Middle, where the Difhes are 
few, or Corner where the Number is large.: 


To fpin a Gold Web for covering. Sweet- 


meats. 


Brat four Ounces of treble-refined Sugar 
in a Marble Mortar, and fift.it through a Hair 
Sieve, then put it in a Silver or Brafs Ladle; but 
Silver makes the Colour better, fet it over a 
Chafing-difh of Charcoal, that 1s burnt clear, 
and fet it on a Table, and turn a Tin Cover or 
China Bowl upfide down upon the fame Table, 

and when your Sugar is melted, it will be of 
| | a 


166 © The ExpERIENCED 


a Gold Colour, take your Ladle off the Fire, 
and begin to fpin it with a Knife, the fame 
Way as the Silver Web; when the Sugar be- 
gins to cool and fet, put it over the Fire to 
warm, and fpin it as before, but don’t warm 
it too often, it will turn the Sugar a bad Colour; 
if you have not enough of Sugar, clean the 
Ladle before you put in more, and Spin it 
till your Web is thick enough, then take it off 
and fet it over the Sweet-meats, as you did the 
Silver Web. | | 


To make a Defert of Spun Sugar. 


Spin two large Webs, and turn one upon 
the other to form a Globe, and put in the in- 
fide of them a few Sprigs of {mall Flowers and 
Myrtle, and Spin a little more round to bind 
them together, and fet them covered clofe up 
before the Fire, then Spin two more on a leffer 
Bowl, and put in a Sprig of Myrtle, and a few 
{mall Flowers, and bind them as before, fet 
them by, and Spin two more lefs than the laft, 
and put in a few Flowers, bind them and fet 
them by, then Spin twelve Couple on Tea Cups 
of three different Sizes, in Proportion to the 
Globes, to reprefent Bafkets, and bind them 
two and two as the Globes with Spun Sugar; 
fet the Globes on a Silver Salver, one upon ano- 
ther, the largeft at the Bottom, and {malleft at 
the Top; when you have fixed the Globes, ru- 
two fmall Wires through the Middle of tf : 
Jargeft Globes, acrofs each other; then take . 
large darning Needle and Silk, and run it hn 

tk : 


ne ae 


EnchisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 167 


. the Middle of the largeft Bafkets, crofs it at the 
_ Bottom, and bring it up to the Top, and make 


a Loop to hang them on the Wire, and do fo 
with the reft of your Bafkets, hang the largeft 


nme eg cee 


Bafkets on the Wires, then put two more Wires 
a litele fhorter acrofs, thro’ the Middle of the 
fecond Globes, and put the Ends of the Wires 
out betwixt the Bafkets, and hang on the four 


' Middle ones, then run two more Wires fhorter 
_ than the laft, thro’ the Middle of the Top Globe, 


and hang the Bafkets over the lowef; ftick a 


Sprig of Myrtle on the Top of your Globes, 
and fet it on the Middle of the Table.—Obferve 


rou don’t put too much Sugar down ata Time 
p 4 


for a Silver Web, becaufe the Sugar will lofe 
— its Moifture and run in Lumps inftead of draw- 
Ing out; nor tao much in the Ladle, for the 
Gold Web will lofe its Colour by Heating too 


oft.—You may make the Bafkets a Silver, and 
the Globes a Gold Colour, if you chufe them. 
Itis a pretty Defert for a grand Table. 


To make Calves Foot Jelly. 


Pur a Gang of Calf’s Feet well cleaned into 
a Pan, with fix Quarts of Water, and let them 
boil gently ‘till reduced to two Quarts, then 
take out the Feet, fcum off the Fat clean, and 
clear your Jelly from the Sediment, beat the 


_ whites. of five Eggs to a Froth, then add one 


Pint of Lifbon, Madeira, or any pale made 
Wine, if you chufe it, then fqueeze in the Juice 


_ of three Lemons; when your Stock is boiling, 
_ take three Spoonfuls of it, and keep ftiurring 1t 


with 


ST i i ~e et ee ae ih ain Aino 


168 The ExPERIENCED 


with your Wine and Eggs to keep it from curd- 
ling, then .add a little more Stock, and ftill 
keep ftirring it, and then put it in the Pan, and 
fweeten it with Loaf Sugar to your Tafte, 2 
Glafs of French Brandy -will keep the Jelly 
from turning blue in frofly Air, put in the 
outer Rind of two Lemons, and let 1t boil one 
Minute all together, and pour it into a Flannel 
Bag, and let it run into a Bafon, and keep 
pouring it back gently into the Bag ‘till 1t runs 


‘clear and bright, then fet your Glafles under 


the Bag, and cover it left Duft gets in.—If you 
would have the Jelly for a Fifth Pond, Tranfpa- 
rent Pudding, or Hen’s Neft, to be. turned out 
of the Mould, boil half a Pound of Ifinglafs in 


- a Pint of Water, ’till reduced to one Quarter,. | 


and put it into the Stock before its refined. 


To make Flummery. 


Pur one Ounce of bitter, and one of fweet 
Almonds into a Bafon, pour over them fome 
boiling Water, to make the Skins come off, 
which is called Blanching, itrip off the Skins, 
and throw the Kernels into cold Water, then 
take them out and beat them in a Marble Mor- 
tar, with a little Rofe Water to keep them from 
Oiling, when they are beat, put them into a 
Pint of Calf’s Foot Stock, fet it over the Fire, 
and fweeten it to your Tafte with Loaf Sugar, 
as foon as it boils ftrain ic thro’ a Piece of Muf- 
lin or Gawz, when a little cold put it into a 
Pint of thick Cream, and keep ftirring it: 
often, “till .ic grows thick and cold, wet your 
: | Moulds 


EncrishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 169 


_ cold.. Water, and pour in the Flummery, let it 
ftand five or fix Hours at leaft before you turn 
them ont; if you make the Flummery ftiff, 


and wet -the Moulds, it will turn out without 
putting it into warm Water, for Water takes off 


the Fsgures of the Mould, and makes the Flume 
‘mery look dull 


N. B. Be careful you keep ftirring it ’till cold, 


or it will run in Lumps when you turn it out 
of the Mould. | 


To make Colouring for Flummery aad Jellies. 


Take Two-penny worth of Cochineal, bruife 


"it with the Blade of a Knife, and put it into 
half a Tea Cupful of beft French Brandy, and 


let it ftand a quarter of an Hour, and filter it 


‘thro’ a fine Cloth, and put in as much as will 


make the Jelly or Flummery a fine pink; if 
yellow, take a little Saffron and tic it in a Rag, 


-diffolve it in cold Water; if green, take fome 


Spinage, boil it, take off the Froth, and mix it 
with the Jelly; if white, put in fome Cream. 


To make a ¥ith Pond. | 


Fru four large Fifh Moulds with Flummery, 
and fix {mall ones, take a China Bowl and put 
in half a Pint of ftiff clear Calt’s-Foot Jelly, 
let it ftand ’till cold; then lay two of the {mall 
Fifhes on the Jelly, the right Side down, put 


in half a Pint more Jelly, let it ftand ‘till cold, 


then lay in the four {mall Fifhes acrofs one 
Y 


‘another, 


70 The ExPERIENCED 


nother, that when you turn the Bowl, upfide 
own, the Heads and Tails may be feen, then, 
Imoft fill your Bow] with Jelly, and let it ftand 
ill cold, then lay in the Jelly four large Fithes, 
nd fill the Bafon quite full with Jelly, and let § 
t ftand ’till the next Day; when you want to § 
fe it, fet your Bowl to the brim in hot Water § 
or one Minute, take care that you don’t let 
he Water go into the Bafon, lay your Plate on 
he Top of” the Bafon and turn it upfide down, 
F you want it for the Middle, turn it out upoa 
.Salver; be fure you make your Jelly very tiff 
nd clear. 7 


To make a Hen’s Nett. 


Take three or five of the fmalleft Pullet Eggs ; 
rou can get, fill them with Flummery, and 
vhen they are ftiff and cold, peel off the Shells, 
are off the Rinds of two Lemons very thin, 
nd boil them in Sugar and Water to take off 
he Bitternefs; when they are cold, cut them 
n long Shreads to imitate Straw, then fill a Bafon 
me-third full of {tiff Calf’s-Foot Jelly, and let 
t ftand ’till cold, then lay in the Shreads of 
he -Lemons, in a Ring about two Inches high 
n the Middle of your Bafon, ftrew a few Corns 
f£ Sagoe 10 look like Barley, fill the Bafon to 
he height of the Peel, and let it ftand ’till-cold, 
hen lay your Eggs.of Flummery in the Mid- 
lle of the Ring that the Straw may be feen 
ound, fill the Bafon quite full of Jelly and let 
t. ftand, and turn it out the fame way of the 
‘'ifh Pond, | | 

To 


| 
Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 171 


To make Blomange of Ifinglafs. 


» Boru one Ounce of Ifinglafs in a Quart of 
‘Water ’till its reduced to a Pint, then put in the 
Whites of four Eggs, with two Spoonfuls of 
Rice Water, to keep the Eggs from Poaching, , 
and Sugar to your Tafte, and run it thro’ a Jelly 
Bag, then put to it two Ounces of fweet, and - 
one Ounce of bitter Almonds, give. them a 

! Scald in your Jelly, and put them thro’ a Hair 

_ Sieve, put it in a China Bowl, the next Day — 
turn. it out, and ftick it all over with Almonds 
blanched and cut lengthway: Garnifh with 
green Leaves or Flowers. 


Green Blomange of Ifinglafs. 


Disso.tve your Ifinglafs, and put to it two 
Ounces of fweet, and two Ounces of bitter Al- 
monds, with as much Juice of Spmage as will 
make it green, and a Spoonful of French Bran- 
dy, fet it over a Stove Fire ‘till it be almoft 
ready to boil, then ftrain it thro’ a Gawz Sieve, 
when it grows thick put it into a Mellon Mould, 
and the next Day turn it out: Garnifh it with 
red and white Flowers. 


Clear Blomange. 


. Take a Quart of ftrong Calf’s-Foot Jelly, 
fkim off the Fat and ftrain it, beat the Whites 
of four Eggs, and put them to your Jelly, fet 
it over the Fire and keep ftirring it ’till it boils, 

Y 2 then 


f 


1927 ‘The ExPERIENCED 


then pour it into a Jelly Bag, and run it thro’ 
feveral Times ‘till it is clear, beat one Ounce 


- of fweet Almonds and one of bitter to a Paifte, 


with a Spoonful of Rofe Water fqueezed thro’ 
a Cloth, then mix it with your Jelly, and three 
Spoonfuls of very: good Crean, fet it over the 
Fire again, and keep ftirring it till it 18 almoft 
boiling, then pour it into a Bowl, and flir 1c very 
often till it is ahmoft cold, then wet: your 
Moulds and fill them. 


Yellow Flummery, 


Take two Ounces of Hinghafs; beat it and 
open it, put it into a Bowl,. and pour a Pint of 
boiling Water upon it, cover it up ‘till almoft 
cold, then add a Pint of White Wine, the Juice 
of two Lemons with the Rind of one, the 
Yolks of eight Eggs beat well, fweeten 1 to 
your Taite, put it in a Toffing Pan and keep 
ftirring. it, when it boils ftrain it thro’ a fine 
Sieve, when almoét cold put it into Cups o 
Moulds. : . 


4 good Green, 


Lay anOunce of Gambouge in aquarter of a 
Pint of Water, put an Ounce and a half of 
good Stone Blue. in a little Water, when they 
are both diffolved, mix them together, add a 
quarter of a Pint more Water, and’a quarter of 
a Pound of fine Sugar, boil it alittle, then pus 
it in a Gally-pot, cover it clofe and it will Keep 


--— 


EncLishH HOUSE-KEEPER, 173 


for Years; be careful not to make it too deep a 
green, for a very little will do at a time. 


Fruit iv Jelly. 


- Pur half a Pint of clear ftiff Calf’s-Foot Jelly 
into a Bafon, when it is fet and ftiff, lay in 
three fine ript Peaches, and a Bunch of Grapes 
with the Stalks up, put a few Vine Leaves over 
them, then fill up your Bowl with Jelly, and 
lec it ftand ‘till the next Day; them fet your Ba- 
fon to the Brim in hot Water, and as foon as 
you find it leaves the Bafon, lay your Difh over 
it, and turn your Jelly carefully upon it: Gar- 
nifh with Flowers. - | 


Green Melon in F lummery. 


Make a little ftiff Flummery, with a good 
deal of bitter Almonds in it, ‘add to it as much 
juice of Spinage, as will make it a fine pale 
green; when it is as thick as good Cream, wet 
your Melon Mould and put it in, then put a 

int of clear Calf’s-Foot Jelly into a large Ba- 
, and let them ftand ’till the next Day, then 

out your Melon, and lay it the right Side 
wn im the Middle of your Bafon of Jelly; 
n fill wp your Bafon. with Jelly that is begin- 
g to fet, let it ftand all Night, and turn it 
t the fame way as the Fruit in Jelly: Makea 
arland of Flowers, and put it in your Jelly, 
is a pretty Difh for Middle at Supper, or Cor- 

ner for a fecond Courfe at Dinner. 


Gilded 


174. The ExPERIENCED 


Gilded Fith in Jelly. 


Make a little clear Blomange as is directed 
_ in the Receipt, then fill two large Fifh Moulds. 
with it, and when it is cold turn it out, and: 
gild them with Gold Leaf, or ftrew them over | 
withGold and Silver Bian mixed, then lay them | 
on a Soup Dith, and fill it with clear thin Calf’s- | 
Foot Jelly, it muft be fo thin as they will fwim | 
in it; if you have no Jelly, Lifbon Wine, or | 
any kind of pale made Wines will do. | 


Hen and Chickens in Jelly. 


Make fome Flummery with a deal of fweet 
' Almonds im it, colour a little of it brown with 
Chocolate, and put it in a Mould the Shape of 
2 Hen; then Colour fome more Flummery, : 
with the Yolk of a hard Egg beat as fine as 
pofiible, leave part of your Flummery white; | 
then fill the Moulds of feven Chickens, three 
with white Flummery, and three with yellow, 
and one the Colour of the Hen; when they are 
cold turn them into a deep Difh, put under, 
and round them Lemon Peel boiled tender and 
cut. hike Straw, then put a little clear Calf's-. 
Foot Jelly under them, to keep them in their 
Places, and let it fland ’till it is ftiff, then Ail: 
up your Difh with more Jelly —They area 
pretty Decoration for a grand Table, 


| 


To 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 175 


To make a Tranfparent Pudding. 


Make your Calf’s-Foot Jelly very fff, and 
when it is quite fine, put a Gill into a China 
Bafon, let it ftand ’till 1c is quite fet; blancha 
;few Jordan Almonds, cut them and a few Jar 
' Rarfins lengthways, cut a little Citron and can- 
died Lemon in little thin Slices, ftick them all 
over the Jelly, and throw in a fewCurrants, then 
pour‘more Jelly on ’till it is an Inch higher; 
when your Jelly is fet, ftick in your Almonds, 


Raifins, Citron, and candied Lemon, with a 


few Currants ftrewed in, then more Jelly as 

before, then more Almonds, Raifins, Citron, 

- andLemon inLayers,’till your Bafon is full; let 

it ftand all Night, and turn it out the fame Way 
as the Fifh Pond. 


To make a Defart Ifland. 


Take aLump of Pafte, and form it intoa 
Rock three Inches broad at the Top, colour it, 
and fet it in the Middle of a deep China Dith, 
and fet a caft Figure on it, with a Crown on its 
Head, and a Knot of Rock Candy at the Feet; 
then make a Roll of Pafte an Inch thick, and 
flick it on the inner Edge of the Difh, two 
Parts round, and cut eight Pieces of candied 


_Eringo Root, about three Inches long, and fix . 


them upright to the Roll of Pafte on the Edge; 
make Gravel Walks of Shot Comfits, from the 
Middle to the Edge of the Difh, and {et {mall 
Figures in them, roll out fome Paite, and cut 

' it 


= 
— = ee 


176 The ExpERIENCED 


it open like Chinefe Rails, bake it, and fix it 


on either Side of one of the Gravel Walks, 


with Gum, have ready a Web of fpun Sugar, | 


and fet it on the Pillars of Eringo Reot, and 
eut Part of the Web off, to form an Entrance 
where the Chinefe Rails are. 


It is a pretty Middle Difh for a fecond Courfe 
ata grand Table, or a Wedding Supper, only 
fet two crowned Figures on the Mount inftead 
of one, : 


To make @ Floating Ifland. 


Grate the ycllow Rind of a large Lemon, 
into a Quart of Cream, put in a large Glafs of 
Madeira Wine, make it pretty fweet with Loaf 
“Sugar, mill it with a Chocolate Mill, toa ftrong 
Froth, take it off as it rifes, and lay it upon a 
Sieve to drain all Night, then take a deep Glafs 
Dith, and lay in your Froth, with a Naples 
Bifcuit in the Middle of it, then beat the White 
of an Egg to a ftrong Froth, and roll a Sprig 
of Myrtle in it to imitate Snow, ftick it in the 
Naples Bifcuit, then lay all over your Froth 
Currant Jelly, cut in very thin Slices, pour 
over it very fine ftrong Calf’s-Foot Jelly, when 
it grows thick, lay it all over, ‘till 1t looks like 
a Glafs, and your Difh is full to the Brim; let 
it ftand ‘till it 1s quite cold and ftiff, then lay 
on Rock candied Sweetmeats upon the Top of 
your Jelly, and Sheep and Swans to pick at the 
Myrtle, ftick green Sprigs in two or three 
Places upon the Top of your Jelly, amongft 

your 


ag ND eee 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 177 


your Shapes; it looks very pretty in the Middle 
_of a Table for Supper.—You muft not put the | 

Shapes on the Jelly ’ull you are going to fend 
it to the Table. : | 


To make a Floating Ifland a fecond Way. 


TAKE Calf’s-Foot Jelly that is fet, brake it a 
little, but not too much, for it will make it 
frothy, and prevent it from looking clear, have 
ready a Middle-fized Turnip, and rub it over 
with Gum Water, or the White of an Egg, 
then ftrew it thick over with greén Shot Com- 
fits, and ftick in the Top of it a Spftig of 
Myrtle, or any other pretty green Sprig, then 
put your broken Jelly round it, fet Sheep, or 
Swans, upon your Jelly, with either a green 
Leaf, or a Knot of Apple Pafte under them, 
to keep the Jelly from difflolving; there are 
| Sheep and Swans made for that Purpofe, you. 
may put in Snakes, or any wild Animals of 
the fame Sort. . 


To make the Rocky Ifland. 


Make a little ftiff Flummery, and put it into. 
five Fifh Moulds, wet them before you put it 
in, when it is ftiff turn it out, and gild them 
with Gold Leaf, then take a deep China Dith, 
fill it near half full of clearCalf’s-Foot Jelly,and 
let it ftand ’till it is fet, then lay on your Fithes, 
and a few Slices of Red Currant Jelly, cut very 
thin round them, then rafp a {mall French 
~ Roll, and rub it over with the White of an 


Z, ' Egg, 


178 The EXPERIENCED 


Egg, and ftrew all over it Silver Bran, and 
Glitter mixed together, ftick a Sprig of Myrtle 
in it,-and put it into the Middle of your Dith, 
beat the White of an Egg to a very high Froth, 
then hang it on your Sprig of Myrtle like 
Snow, and fill your Difh to the Brim with 
clear Jelly; when you fend it to Table, put 
Lambs and Ducks upon your Jelly, with ei- 
ther green Leaves, or Mofs under them, with 
' their Heads towards the Myrtle. 


To make Moonfhine. 


Taxes the Shapes of a Half-moon, and five 
or feven Stars, wet them, and fill them with 
Flummery,. let them ftand ’till they are cold, 
then turn them into a deepChina Difh, and pour 
Lemon Cream round them, made thus: Take 
- a Pint of Spring Water, put to it the Juice of 
three Lemons, and the yellow Rind of one 
Lemon, the Whites of five Eggs well beaten, 
and four Ounces of Loaf Sugar, then fet 1 
over a flow Fire, and ftir it one Way ‘till it 
looks White and thick, if you let it boil it will 
curdle, then ftrain it through a Hair Sieve, and 
let it ftand “till ic is cold, beat the Yolks of five 
Eggs, mix them with your Whites, fet them 
over the Fire, and keep ftirring it ’till it is al- 
moft ready to boil, then pour it into a Bafon; 
when it is cold pour it among your Moon and 
Stars: Garnifh with Flowers. 


It is a proper Difh for a fecond Courfe, either 
for Dinner or Supper. 7 
0 


et - oe . 


ee 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 179 


Io make Moon and Stars in Jelly. | 


‘TAKE a deep China Difh, turn the Mould of 
a Half-moon, and feven Stars, with the bottom 
Side upward in the Difh, lay a Weight upon 
every Mould to keep them down, then make 
fome Flummery, and fill your Difh with it; 
when it is cold and ftiff, take your ‘Moulds 
carefully out, and fill the Vacancy with clear 
Calf’s-Foot Jelly; you may colour your Flum- 
mery with Cochineal, and Chocolate, to make 
it look like the Sky, and your Moon and Stars | 
will fhew more clear: Garnifh with Rock 
Candy Sweetmeats. 
It is a pretty Corner Difh, or a proper Decora- 

| tion for a grand Table. 


To make Egos and Bacon in Flummery. 


TAKE a Pint of ftiff Flummery, and make 
Part of it a pretty pink Colour, with the Co- 
louring for the Flummery, dip a Potting-pot 
in cold Water, and pour in Red Flummery, 
the thicknefs of a Crown Piece, then the fame 
of White Flummery, and another of Red, and 
twice the thicknefs of White Flummery at the 
Top; one Layer muft be ftiff and: cold before 
you pour on another, then take five Tea Cups, 
- and put a large Spoonful of White Flummery 
into each TeaCup, and let them ftand all Night, 
then turn your Flummery out of your Pottihg- 
Pots, on the Back of a Plate wet with cold 
Water, cut your Flummery into thin Slices, 

! Z2 and 


180 The ExpERIENCED 


and lay them on a China Difh, then turn your 
Flummery out of the Cups on the Difh, and | 


take a Bit out of the Top of every one, and 

lay in half of a preferved Apricot; it will con- 

fine the Syrup from difcolouring the Flum- 

mery, and make it like the Yolk of a poached 

Egg: Garnifh with Flowers. _ 

Ir is a pretty Corner Difh for Dinner, or Side 
| for Supper. 


Solomon's Temple :# Flummery. 


Make a Quart of ftiff Flummery, divide it 
into three Parts, make one Part a pretty pink 
Colour, with a little Cochineal bruifed fine, 
and fteeped in French Brandy, fcrape one 
Ounce of Chocolate very fine, diffolve itina 
lictle ftrong Coffee, and mix it with another Part 
of your Flummery, to make it a light Stone 
Colour, the laft Part muft be White, then wet 
your Temple Mould, and fix it in a Pot to ftand 
even, then fill the Top of the Temple with 
Red Flummery to the Steps, and the four 
Points with White, then fill it up with Choco- 
late Flummery; let it ftand ’till the next Day, 
then loofen it round with a Pin, and fhake & 
loofe very gently, but don’t dip your Mould in 
‘warm Water, it will take off the Glofs, and 
{poil the Colour; when you turn it out, ftick 
a {mall Sprig, or a Flower Stalk, down from 
the Top of every Point, it will ftrengthen 
them, and make it look pretty, lay round it 
Rock Candy Sweatmeats. 
it is proper for a Corner Difh for a large Table. 

| 0 


COE ee 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 131 


To make Cribbage Cards in F lummery. 


Frxuu five fquare Tins the Size of a Card, 
with very ftiif Flummery, when you turn 
them out, have ready a little Cochineal dif- 
folved in Brandy, and ftrain it through a Muf- 
lin Rag, then take a Camel’s Hair Pencil, and 
make Hearts and Diamonds with your Cochi- 
neal, then rub a little Chocolate with a little 
eating Oil upon a Marble Slab, ’till it is very 
fine and bright, then make Clubs, and Spades; 
pour a little Lifbon Wine into the Dith, and 
fend it up. 


To make a Dith of Snow. 


- "TAKE twelve large Apples, put them in cold 
Water, and fet them over a very flow Fire, and 
when they are foft, put them upon a Hair Sieve, 
take off the Skin, and put the Pulp into a Ba- 
fon, then beat the Whites of twelve Eggs toa 
very ftrong Froth, beat and fift half a Pound 
of double refined Sugar, and ftrew it-into the 
Eggs, beat the Pulp of your Apples to a ftrong 
| Froth, then beat them all together ’till they 

are like a ftiff Snow, then lay it upon a China 
Dith, and heap it up as high as you can, and 
fet round it green Knots of Pafte, in Imitation 
of Chinefe Rails; ftick a Sprig of Myrtle in the 
Middle of the Dith, and ferve it up. : 

It is a pretty Corner Difh for a large Table. 


To 


182 ' The ExrPERIENCED 


To make Black Caps. 


Take fix large Apples, and cut a Slice of the 
Bloffun End, put them in a Tin, and fet them 
in a quick Oven ’till they are brown, then wet 
them with Rofe Water, and grate a little Sugar 
over them, and fet them in the Oven again 
all they look bright, and very black, then 
take them out, and put them into a deep China 


* Diih or Plate, and pour round them thick 


Cream Cuftard, or White Wine and Sugar. 


To make Green Caps. 


‘Take Codlings juft before they are ripe, 
green them as you would for Preferving, then 
rub them over with a little oiled Butter, grate 


| double refined Sugar over them, and fet them 


in the Oven ’till they look bright, and fparkle 

hke Froft, then take them out and put them 

into a deep China Difh, make a very fine Cuf- 

tard, and pour it round them; ftiek fingle 

Flowers in every Apple, and ferve them up. 

It 1s a pretty Corner Difh for either Dinner or 
Supper. 


To flew Pears. 


Pare the largeft ftewing Pears, and fticka 
Clove in the Blofiom End, then put them ina 
well tinned Sauce Pan, with a new Pewter Spoon 


“in the Middle, fill it with hard Water, anddet . 


it over a flow Fire for three or four Hours ’till — 
your 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 183 


your Pears are foft, and:the Water reduced to 
2 {mall Quantity, then put in as much Loaf 
Sugar as will make ic a thick Syrup, and give the 
Pears a boil in it, then cut fome Lemon Peel like 
Straw, and hang them about your Pears, and 
ferve them up with the Syrup in a deep Dith. 


To make Lemon Syllabubs. 


To a Pint of Cream, put a Pound of double 
refined Sugar, the Juice of .even Lemons, grate 
the Rinds of two Lemons into a Pint of White 
Wine, and half a Pint-of Sack, then put them all 
into a deep Pot, and whifk them for half an 
Hour, put it into Glafles the Night before you 
want it; it is better for ftanding two or three 

Days, but it will keep a Week if required. 


To make Solid Syllabubs. 


Take a Quart of rich Cream, and put ina 
Pint of White Wine, the Juice of four Lemons, 
and Sugar to your Tafte, whip it up very well, 
and take off the Froth as it rifes, ‘put it upon a 
Hair Sieve, and let it ftand ’till the next Day ina 
cool place, fill your Glaffes better than half 
full wich the thin, then put on the Froth, and 
heap it as high as you can; the Bottom will 
look clear and keep feveral Days. 


Whip Syllabubs. 
Take a Pint of thin Cream, rub a Lump of 


Loaf Sugar on the Out-fide of a Lemon, and 
| {weeten 


| 


184 The ExPERIENCED 


- fweeten it to your Tafte, then put in the Juice 
of a Lemon, and a Glafs of Madeira Wine, or 
French Brandy, mill it to a Froth with a Cho- 
_ colate Mill, and take it off as it rifes, and lay it 
upon a Hair Sieve, then fill one half of your 
Poffet Glaffes, a little more than half full with 
White Wine, and the other half of your Glaf- 
fes a little more than half full of Red Wine, 
‘then lay on your Froth as high as you can, 
but obferve that it is well drained on your Sieve, 
or it will mix with your Wine, and fpoil your 
Syllabubs. Ot 


- To make Lemon Syllabubs a fecond Way. 


Put a Pint of Cream to a Pint of White 
Wine, then rub a quarter of a Pound of Loaf 
Sugar upon the out Rind of twoLemons,’till you 
have got out all the Effence, then put the Sugar 
to the Cream, and fqueeze in the Juice of both 
Lemons, let it ftand for two Hours, then mill 
them with a.Chocolate Mill, to raife the Froth, 
and take it off with a Spoon asit rifes, or it will 
make it heavy, lay it upon a Hair Sieve t 
drain, then fill your Glaffles with the Re- 
mainder, and lay on the Froth as high as you 
can, let them ftand all Night, and they will be 
clear at the Bottom; fend them to the Table 
upon a Salver, with Jellies. 


To make a Syllabub under the Cow. 


Pur a Bottle of ftrong Beer, and a Pint of 
Cyder into a Punch Bowl, grate in a {mall Nut- 


meg, _ 


—— - ee 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. rg¢ 


, and f{weeten it to your Tafte, then milk 
as much Milk from the Cow as will makea 
firong Froth, and the Ale look clear, Jet it ftand 
an Hour, then firew over it a few Currants, 
wdll wafhed, picked, and-plumped before the 
Fire, then fend it tothe Table. | 


CHAP. VII. 
Obfervations upon. Preferving. 


WHEN you make any Kind of Jelly, 
Y= take Care you don’t let any of the Se 
from the Fruit fall into your Jelly, nor fqueeze 
it too ‘near, ‘for that will prevent your Jelly 
from ‘being fo clear; pound your Sugar, and 
let it diffolve in the Syrup before you fet it on 
the Fire, it makes the Scum rife well, and the 
Jelly a better Colour: It is a great Fault to boil 
any Kind of Jellies too high, it makes them a 
dark Colour; you muft never keep green 
_ Sweetmeats in the firft Syrup longer than the 
Receipt directs, leaft you fpoil their Colour; 
you muft take the fame Care with the Oranges 
and Lemons, as to Cherries, Damfons, and 
mot Sorts of Stone Fruit, put over them either 
Mutton Suet rendered, or a Board to keep them 
down, or they will rife out of the Syrup and 
fpoil the whole Jar, by giving them a four bad 
Tafte; obferve to-keep all wet Sweetmeats in 
adry cool Place, for a wet damp Place will 
Make them Mould, and a hot Place will dry up 
_ the Virtue, and make them Candy; the .beit 
Aa | Direction 


--— 0, 


ss. 


186 The ExPpERIENCED 


Direction I can give, is to dip Writing Papa 
in Brandy, and lay it clofe to your Sweetmeats, 


tie them well down with white Paper, and two 


fould of thick Cap Paper to keep out the Au, 


‘for nothing can be a greater Fault than bad 


tyeing down, and leaving the Pots open. 


To make Orange Jelly. 
Taxe half a Pound of Hartfhorn Shavings, 


~ and two Quarts of Spring Water, Jet it boil ‘nll 


it be reduced to a Quart, pour it clear off, let 
it ftand ’till it is cold, then take half a Pint of 
Spring Water, and the Rinds of three Oranges 

ared very thin, ana the Juice of fix, let them 
hand all Night, ftrain them through a fine 
Hair Sieve, melt the Jelly, and pour the O-| 
range Liquor to it, fweeten it to your Tafte| 
with double refined Sugar, put to it a Blade or | 
two of Mace, four or five Cloves, half a {mall | 
Nutmeg, and the Rind of a Lemon, beat the 
Whites of five Eggs to a Froth, mix it vety 
well with your jelly, fet it oyer a clear Fue, 
boil it three or four Minutes, run it through 
your Jelly Bag feveral Times -’till it is clear, 
and when you pour it in your Bag take great 
Care you don’t fhake it, 


To make Hartfhorn Jelly. 


Put two Quarts of Water into a clean Pat 
with half a Pound of Hartfhorn Shavings, ‘ 
it fimmer ’till near one half is reduced, ftra 


it off, then put in the Peel of four Orange 
: an 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER.| 187 


and two Lemons pared very thin, boil them 
five Minutes, put to it the Juice of the before- 
mentioned Lemons and Oranges, with about 
ten Ounces of double refined Sugar, beat the 
Whites of fix Eggs to a Froth, mix them care- 
fully with your Jelly that you do not poach 
the Eggs, juft let it boil up, then run it through 
a Jelly Bag ’till ic is clear, | 


To make Red Currant Jelly. 


GaTHER your Currants when they are dry 
and full ripe, ftrip them off the Stalks, put 
them in‘a large Stew. Pot, tie’a Paper over them, 
and let them ftand.an Hour in a cool Oven, 
frain them through a Cloth, and to every 
Quart of Juice add a Pound and a half of Loaf 
Sugar broken in fmall Lumps, ftir it gently 
over a clear Fire ‘till your Sugar is melted, 
fkim it well, ler it boil pretty quick twenty 
Minutes, pour it hot into your Pots; if you 
let it ftand it will break the Jelly, it will not 
fet fo well as when it is hot; put Brandy Papers 
over them, and keep them in.a dry Place for 
Ufe. | 
| ¢ , 
__N.B. You may make Jelly of half Red and 
half White Currants the fame Way. - 


To make Black Currant Jelly. 


Ger your Currants when they are ripe and 
dry, pick them off the Stalks, and put them 
Ima large Stew Pot, to every ten Guarts of 
Aa2 Currants, 


rsa 4. The ExPerRiBNCED 


Currants, put-a Quart of Water, tie 2 Paper 

ever them, and fet them in 2 cool Oven for twe 

Hours, then fqueeze them through 4 very thim 

Cloth, to every Quart of Juice add a Pound 

and a half of Loaf Sugar broken in fmalf 
Pieces, ftir it gently. ‘ull the Sugar is melted ; 
: when it boils fkim it well, let it boil pretey: 
- quick for half an Hour over a clear Fire, then 

_ ‘pour it into Pots; put Brandy Papers over 
‘them, and keep them for Ufe. 


To make Red Rafpberry Jam. 


. GATHER your Rafpberries when they are 
ripe and dry, pick them very carefully from 
the Stakks, and dead ones crufh them in a Bowl 
with a Silver or Wooden Spoon, Pewter is apt 
to turn them a purple Colour; as foon as you 
have crufhed them, ftrew in their own Weight 
of Loaf Sugar, and half their Weight of €ur- 
yant Juice, baked and ftrained as for Jelly, 
_ then fet them over a clear flow Fire, boil them 
half an Hour, fkim them welt, and keep ftir. 
ing them all the Time, then pus them into 
Pots or Glaffes, with Brandy Papers over them, 
_ and keep them for Ufe. ‘ 


N. B. As foon as you have got your Berries, 
ftrew in your Sugar, don’t let them ftand lohg 
before you Soil them, and it will preferve their 

avour. ; 


Za 


Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. 28y 
To make White Rafpberry Jam. 


Get your Rafpberries dry and full ripe, 
crafh rhem fine, and frew in theiz own Weight 
of Loaf Sugar, and half their Weight of -the 
Jaice of White Currants, boil them half an 
Hour over a clear flow Fire, {kim them well, 
and put them into Pots or Glafles, tie them 
down with Brandy Papers, and keep them 
dry for Ufe. 3 : 


N. B. flrew in your Sugar as in the Bed 
Rafpberry Jam. 


Lo make Red Strawberry Jam. 


. Gatrusze the fcarlet SKrawberries very ripe, 
bruife them very fine, and put to them a littlé 
Juice of Strawberries, beat and fift their Weight 
in Sugar, ftrew it among them, and put them 
in the Preferving Pan, fet them over a clear 
flow Fire, {kim them, and boil them twenty 
Minutes, thea pur them in Pots or Glafles for 


To make Green Goosberry Jam. 


‘Taxs the green Walnut Goofberries when 
they are full grown, but not ripe, cut them in 
two.and pick out the Seeds, then put them in: 
a Pan of Water, green them as you do the 
Gofberries, in Imitation of Hops, and lay them 
{a a Sieve to drain, then beat them in a Mar 
, e 


190 )=© Ss The EXPERIENCED | 


ble Mortar with their Weight in Sugar, thera 
take a Quart of Goofberries, boil them to maf 
in a Quart of Water, then fqueeze them; and. 
to every Pint of Liquor put a Pound of fine 
Loaf Sugar, boil and fkim it, then put in your 
green Goofberries, boil them ‘till they are very 
thick, clear, and a pretty green, ‘then put them 
in-Glafles for Ufe. 


i To make Black Currant Jam. 


Get your Black Currants when they are 
full ripe, pick‘them clear from the Stalks, and 
bruife them in a Bowl with a Wooden Mallet, 
to every two Pounds of Curranrs, put a Pound 
and a half of Loaf Sugar beat fine, put them 
into a Preferving Pan, boil them full half an 
Hour, fkim it and ftir it all the Time, then 
put it in the Pots, and keep for Ufe. — 


To preferve Red Currants im Buncbes. 


STONE your Currants, and tie fix or fevéen 
Bunches together with.a Thread to a Piece of 
f{plit Deal, about the length of your Finger, 
weigh the Currants, and put the Weight of 
double refined Sugar in your Pgeferving Pan, 
with a little Water, and boil it ’till the Sugar 
flies, then put the Currants in, and juft give 
them a boil up, and cover them ’till next Day, 
then take them .out, and either dry them or 
put them in Glaffes, with the Syrup boiled up 
with a little of thé Juice of Red Currants; put 

_ eS Brandy 


a 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 191 


Brandy Paper over them, and tie them clofe 
down with another Paper, and fet them in a 
dry Place. . | 


Zo preferve White Currants in Bunches. 


STONE your Currants, and tie them ip 
Bunches as before, and put chem in the Pre« 
ferving Pan, with their Weight of double re- . 
fined Sugar beat and fifted fine, let them ftand 
all Night, then take fome Pippins, pare, core, 
and boil them, but don’: ftir the Apples, only © 
prefs them down with the Back of your Spoon, 
when the Water is ftrong of the Apple, add to 
it the Juice of a Lemon, ftrain it through a 
Jelly Bag ’till ic runs quite clear, to every Pint 
of your Liquor put a Pound of double refined 
Sugar, boil it up to a ftrong Jelly, put it.to 
your Currants, and bail: them ‘till they look 
clear, cover them in the Preferving Pan with 
Paper ‘till they are almoft-cold, then put a 
Bunch of Currants in your Glafles, and fill it 
up with Jelly; when they are cold, wet Papers 
in Brandy, and lay over them, tie another on, 
and fet them ina dry Place. . 


To preferve Currants for Tarts. 


Ger your Currants. when they are dry, and 
pick them, to every Pound and a quarter of 
Currants, put a Pound of Sugar into a Preferv- 
ing Pan, with as much Juice of Currants as 
will diffolve it, when it boils {kim 1, and put 
in. your Currants, and boil them ‘all they are 

clear ; 


392 The ExrEr1 ENCED 


clear; put them into a Jar, lay Brandy Papert 
~ over, tie them down, and keep them in a dry 
Place, | . 


To preferve -Cucumbers. 


Taxe fmall'Cucumbers and large ones that 
swill cut into quarters, the greeneft and mof& 
free from Seeds you can get, put them in 2 
ftrong Salt and Water in a ftrait mouth far, 
with a Gabbage Leaf to keep them down, tie 
a Paper over them, fet them in.a warm Place 
"all they are yellow, wafh them out, and fet 
them over the Fire in frefh Water, with a little 
Salt in, and a frefh Cabbage Leaf over them, 
cover the Pan very clofe, bat take Care they 
don’t boil; if they are not a fine green change 
ryour Water, (and it will help them) and make 
them hot, and cover them as before; when. 
they are a good green, take them off the Fire, 
Jet them ftand till they are cold, then cut the 
large ones in quarters, take out the Seeds and 
foft Part, then put them in cold Water, and let 
them ftand two Days, but change the Water 
twice each Day to take out the Salt, take a 
Pound of fingle refined Sugar, and half a Pint 
of Water, fet it over the Fire; when you have 
fkimed it clean, put in the Rind of a Lemon, 
_ one Ounce of Ginger, with the Out-fide fcraped 
off; when your Syrup is pretty thick, take it 
off, and when it is cold, wipe the Cucumbers 
dry, and put them in, boil the Syrup once in 
two or three Days for three Weeks, and 
firengthen the Syrup, (if required,) for the 

. _ greatett 


EncLtitshH HOUSE-KEEPER., 193 


ateft Danger of them fpoiling is at firft.— 
Thé Syrup is to be quite cold when you put it 
to your Cucumbers, 


To preferve Grapes in Brandy. 


T axe fome clofe Bunches of Grapes, but not 
too ripe, either red or white, put them into a 
Jy. with a quarter of a Pound of Sugar Candy, 
ant: fill the Jar with common Brandy, tie it 
clofe with a Bladder, and fect them in a dry 
Place. Morello Cherries are done the fame 
way. : : 


To preferve Kentifh ov Golden Pippins. 


Bort the Rind of an Orange very tender, 
then fay it in Water for two or three Days, take 
a Quart of Golden Pippins, pare. core, quarter, 
and boil them to a ftrong Jefly, and run it 


through a Jelly Bag, then take twelve Pippins, 


pare them and {crape out the Cores, put two 
Pounds of Loaf Sugar into a Stew Pan with 
near a Pint of Water, when it boils fkim it, 
and put in your Pippins with the Orange Rind 
in thin Slices, let them boil faft ’till che Sugar 
is very thick and will almoft Candy, then put 
in a Pint of the Pippin Jelly, boil them fat ’till 
the Jelly is clear, then fqueeze in the Juice of 
a Lemon, give it one boil, and put them into 
Pots or Glaffes with the Orange Peel. . 


Bb so 


£94 The EXPERIENCED 


To preferve Green Codlings that will keep all 
; the Year. 


Take Codlings about the Size of a Walnut, 
with the Stalks and a Leaf or two on, puta 
handful of Vine Leaves into a Brafs Pan of 
Spring Water, then-a lay of Codlings, then 
Vine Leaves, do fo ’till the Pan is full, cover it 
clofe that no Steam can get out, fet it ona flow 
Fire; when they are foft take off the Skins 
with a Penknife, then put them in the fame 
Water with the Vine Leaves; it muft be quite 
cold or it will be apt to crack them, put ina 
little Roach Allum, and fet them over a very | 
flow Fire till they are green (which will be in 
three or four Hours,) then take them out and | 
Jay them on a Sieve to drain.—Make a good | 
Syrup, and give them a gentle boil once a Day | 
for three Days, then put them in fmall Jars; | 
put Brandy Paper over and keep them for ufe. 


| 


To preferve Green Apricots. 


GATHER your Apricots before their Stones 
are hard, put them into a Pan of hard Water, 
with Plenty of Vine. Leaves, fet them over a 
flow Fire ‘till they are quite yellow, then take 
them out and rub them with a Flannel and 
Salt to take off the Lint, put them into the Pan 
to the fame Water and Leaves, cover them 
clofe, fet them a great Diftance from the Fire 
till they are a fine light green, then take them 
carefully up, pick all the bad coloured and 

broken 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 195 
broken ones out, boil the beft gently for two 
or three Times in a thin Syrup, let them be 
quite cold every Time; when they look plump 
and ‘clear, make a Syrup of double refined 
Sugar, but not too thick, give your Apricots a 
gentle boil in it, then put them into Pots or 


- Glaffes, dip Papers in Brandy, lay it over them, 


and: keep them for ufe, then take all the bro- 


ken and bad coloyred.ones, and boil them in 


the firft Syrup for Tarts. 
. To preferve Goosberries green. 


TakE green Walnut Goofeberries when they 


are full grown, and take out the Seeds, ‘ put 


them in cold Water, cover them clofe with 


‘ Vine Leaves, and fet them over a flow Fire; 


_ when they are hot take them off, and let them 


ftand, and when they are cold fet them on 
again ’till they are pretty green, then put them 
on a Sieve to drain, and have ready a Syrup 
made.of a Pound of double refined Sugar, and 


_ half a Pint of Spring Water; the Syrup is to 


be cold when the Goofberries are put in, and 
boil them ’till they are clear, then fet them by 
for a Day or two, then give them two or three 
fcalds, and then put them into Pots or Glafles 
for Ufe. | 


To preferve Green Goosberries ix Imitation 
of Hops. - 
Take the largeft green Walnut Goofberries 


you can get, cut them at the Stalk-end in four 
 Bb2 quarters, 


196 - The EXPERIENCED 


. quarters, leaving them whole at the Bloflom-— 
‘end, then take out.all the Seeds, and put five 
or fix one in another, take a Needleful of firong 
Thread, with a large Knot at the End, run che 
Needle through the Bunch of Goofberries, and 
tie a Knot to faften them together, (they re- 
femble Hops,) and put cold Spring Water an 
your Pan, a large Handful of Vine Leaves in 
the Bottom, and three or four lays af Gaof- 


berries, with plenty of Vine Leaves between — 


every lay, and over the Top of your Pan, cover 
it fo that no Steam can get out, and fet them 
ona flow Fire; when they are fcalding hot 
take them off, and let them ftand ’till they are 


cold, then fer them on again ‘till they are 2 | 


good green, then take them off, and tet them 
and till they are quite cold, then put them in 
a Sieve to drain, make a thin Syrup to every 
Pint of Water, put in 2 Pound of commor 
Loaf Sugar, boil and {kim it well; when it is 
about half cold, put in your Geofberries, and 
let them Rand ‘tll the next Day, then give 
them one boil a Day fer three Days, then make 
4 Syrup, to every Pint of Water put a Pound of 
ne Sugar, a Slice of Ginger, and. a little Le- 
mon Peel cut lengthway exceeding thin, boil 
and {kim it well, give your Goofberries a -bail 
in it; when they are.cold put them into Glaffes 
or Pots, lay Papers dipped in Brandy over 
them, tie them up, and keep them for Ufe. 


To 


| Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. gy 


To preferve Sprigs green, 


GaTHER the Sprigs of Muftard when it is 
gong toSeed, put them in 2 Pan of Spring 

ater, witha great many Vine Leaves under 
and over them, put to them one Ounce of 
Roach Allum, fet it over a gentle Fire; when 
it is hot, take it off, and let it ftand ’till it is 
quite cold, then cover it very clofe, and hang 
ita great height over a flow Fire; when they 
are green, take out the Sprigs, and lay them 
an a Sieve to drain, then make a good Syrup, 
bail your Sprigs in it once a Day fer three 
Days, put them in, and keep them for Ufe— 
They are very pretty to flick in the Middle of 
a preferved Orange, or garnifh a Set of Salvers. 
——You may preferve young Peafe when they 
are juft come into Pod the fame Way. 


Zo preferve Green Gage Plumbs. . 


Taxe the fineft Plumbs you can get juft be- 
fore they are ripe, put them in a Pan, with a 
lay of Vine Leaves at the Bottom of your Pan, 
then a lay of Plumbs, do fo till your Pan is 
almoft full, then fill ic with Water, fect them 
on a flow Fire; when they are hot and their 
Skins begin to rife, take them off, and take 
the Skins carefully off, put them an a Sieve as 
you do them, then lay them in the fame Wa- 
ter, with a lay of Leaves betwixt, as you did 
at the firft, cover them very clofe fo that no 
Steam can get out, and hang them a great dif- 

tance 


198 .. The ExPERIENCED 


tance from the Fire ’till they are green, which 
will be five or fix Hours at leaft, then take 
them carefully up, lay them on a Hair Siewe— 
to drain, make a good Syrup, give them a 
gentle boil in it twice a Day for two Days, 
take them out, and put them into a fine clear’ 
Syrup;, put Paper dipped in Brandy over them, | 


and keep them for Ufe, 


To preferve Walnuts black. 


_ Taxe the {mall kind of Walnuts, put, them | 


. in Salt and Water, change’the Water every Day 


for nine Days, then put them in a Sieve, let 
them ftand in the Air until they begin to turn 
black, then put. them inta a Jug, and pour 
boiling Water over them, and let them ftand 
"till che next Day, then put them in/a Sieve to 
drain, ftick a Clove into each End of your | 
Walnut, put them into a Pan of boiling Wa- 
ter, let them boil five Minutes, then take them 
up; make a thin Syrup, fcald them in it three 
or four Times a Day ’till your Walnuts are 
black and bright, then make a thick Syrup 
with a few Cloves and a little Ginger cut in 
Slices, fkim it well, putin your Walnuts, boil 
them five or fix Minutes, and put them in your 
jars; wet your Paper with Brandy, lay it over 
them, and tie them down with Bladders. The 
firft Year they are a little bitter, but the fecond 
Year they will be very good. | 


To 


EnctishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 199 


' To preferve Walnuts green. 


Take large French Wainuts when they are 

a little larger than a good Nutmeg, wrap every 
Walnut in Vine Leaves, tie it round: with a 
String, then put them into a large Quantity 
of Salt and Water, let them lie in it for three . 
Days, then put them in frefh Salt and Water, 
and let them lie in that for three Days longer, 
then take them out, and lay a large Quantity 
of Vine Leaves in the Bottom of your Pan, 
then a lay of Walnuts, then Vine Leaves, do 
fo till your Pan is full, but take great Care 
the Walnuts do not touch one another, fill 
‘your Pan with hard Water, with a little Bit 
of Roach Allum, fet it over the Fire ’till the . 
Water is very hot, but don’t let it boil, take it 
off, let them ftand in the Water ’till it is quite 
cold, then fet them over the Fire again; when 
they are green take the Pan off the Fire, and 
_ when the Water is quite.cold take out the Wal- 
nuts, lay them on a Sieve a good diftance from 
each other, have ready a thin Syrup boiled and 
fkimed; when it is pretty cool put in your 
Walnuts, let them ftand all Night, the next 
. Day give them feveral fcalds, but don’t tet 
. them boil, ‘keep your Preferving Pan clofe co- 
vered, and when you fee that they look bright, 
and a pretty Colour, have ready made a rich 
Syrup of fine Loaf Sugar, with a few Slices 
of Ginger, and two or three Blades of Mace, 
{cald your Walnuts in it, put them ip fmall 
Jars, with Paper dipped in Brandy over them, 
tie 


r 


t 


400 The ExpERIENCED 


tie them down with Bladders, and keep them 
for Ufe. 


Preferve Walnuts white. 


Taxe the large French Walnuts full grown, 
but not fhelled, pare them ‘till you fee the 
white appear, put them-in Salt and Water as 
you do thiem, have ready boiling a large Sauce 
Pan full of foft Water, boil them in it five 
.Minutes, take them up and lay them berwit 
two Cloths ‘till you have made a thin Syrup, 
boil them gently in it for four or five Minutes, 
then put them ina Jar, ftop them up clofe that 
- noSteam can get out, if it does it will fpoil 
their Colour, the next Day boil them again, 
when they are cold, make a frefh thick Syrup, 
with two or three Slices of Ginger anda Blade 
of Mace, boil and fkim it well, then give your 
Walnuts a boil in it, and put them in Glafg 
Jars with Papers dipped in Brandy laid over 
them, and tie Bladders over them to keep out 
. the Air. | 


To make Orange Marmalade, 


. axe the cleareft Seville Oranges you can 
get, cut rhem in two, then take all the Pul 

and Juice out into a Bafon, pick all the Seeds 
- and Skins out of it, boil the Rinds in hard Wa- 
ter ‘till they are tender, (change the Water two 
or three Times while they are boiling) then 
pound them in a Marble Mortar, add to it the 
Juice and Pulp, and put them in the Preferving 
Pan, — 


Encursun- ‘HOUSE-KEEPER. 202 


Fin, with double its Weight of Loaf Sugar, 
fet it over a flow Fire, boil ic a little more than 
half. an Hour, then put it into Pots with Bran- 
dy Papers over them, 


bo Tranfparent Marmalade. 


Taxke-very pale Seville Oranges, cut them in 
Quarters, take.out the Pulp, and put it intoa 
Bafon, pick the Aine and Seeds out, put the 
Peels in a little Sd and Water, let them ftand 
all Night, then boil them in a good Quantity 
of Spring Water ’till they are tender, then cut 
them in very thin Slices, and put them to the 
Pulp; to every Pound of Marmalade, put a 
Pound and a half of double refined Sugar beat 
fine, boil them together gently for twenty Mi- 
Nutes; if itis not-clear and tranfparent, boil 
it five or fix Minutes longer, keep ftirring it 
gently all the Time, and take Care you do not 

reak the Slices; when it is cold, put it into 
Jelly or Sweetmeat Glaffes, tie them down with 
Brandy Papers over them. 

They are pretty for a Defert of any Kind. 


To make Quince Marmalade. 


Get your Quinces when they:are full ripe, 
pare them, and cut them mto Quarters, then 
' take out the Core, and put them into a Sauce 
Pan that is well tinned, cover them with the 
Parings, fill the Sauce Pan near full of Spring 
_ Water, cover it clofe, and let them ftew over a 
_ flow Fire ’till they' are foft, and of a pink Co- 
_ - Cec lour, 


202 The ExPERIENCED 


Jour, then pick out all your Quinces from thé 
Parings, beat them to a Pulp in a Marble Moré 
tar, take their Weight of fie Loaf Sugar, put 
as much Water to it as. will diffolve it, bowl and 
— {kim it well, then put in your Quinces and boil 
them gently three quarters of an Hour, keep. 
ftirring it all the Time, or it will ftick to the 
Pan and burn; when it is cold, put it mto flat 
Sweetmeat Pots, and tie it down with Brandy 
Paper. , 


Fo make Apricot Marmalade. 


: Wuen you preferve your Apricots, pick out. 
all the bad ones; and thofe that are too ripe 
for keeping, boil them im the Syrup ‘tll they | 
will mafh, then- beat them in a Marble Mor- | 
tar to a Pafte, take half their Weight of Loaf | 
Sugar, and put as much Water.to it as will | 
diffoive it, boil and fkim it well, boil them ‘till | 
they look clear, and the Syrup thick Hke a fine | 
- Jelly, then put it into your Sweetmeat Glaffes, 
and keep them for Ufe. Oo 


To preferve Green Pine Apples. 


GeT your Pine Apples before they are ripe, 
and lay them in’ a ftrong Salt and Water five 
Days, then put a large Handful of Vine Leaves 
in the Bottom of a large Sauce Pan, and put if 
your Pine Apple, fill up your Pan with Vine 
Leaves, then pour on the Salt and Water it was 
laid in, cover it up very clofe, and fet it over 
fiow Fire, let it fland ’till it is a fine light Green, : 

. ave | 


6. 


EncLIsH HOUSE-KEEPER. 203 


‘have ready.a thin Syrnp, made of a Quart of 
‘Water, and a Pound of double refined Sugar, 
when. it is almoft cold, put it into a deep Jar, 
and put in the Pine Apple with the Top on, let 
qt fland. a Week, and take Care that it is well 
covered with the Syrup, then boil your Syru 
again, and pour it carefully into your Jar, leat 
you break the Top of your Pine Apple, and 
tet it ftand eight or. ten Weeks, and give the . 
Syrup two or three boils to keep it from mould- . 
ing, let your Syrap ftand ’tili it is near cold, 
before you pour it on; when your Pine Apple 
looks quite full.and green, take it out of the 
Syrup, and make a thick Syrup of three Pounds 
of double’ refined Sugar, with as much Water 
as will diffolve it; boil and fkim it well, put a 
few Slices of White Ginger in it, when it is 
near cold, pour it upon your Pine Apple, tic it 
wn with a Bladder, and the Pine Apple will 
eep many Years, and not fhrink, but if you 
put It into thick Syrup at the firft, it will 
rink, fur the Strength of the Syrup draws 
out the Juice, and fpoils it. 


N. B. It is a great Fault to put any Kind of 


Fruit that is preferved whole into thick Syrup 
at firft. | 


To. preferve Red Goosberries. 


To every Quart of ruff Red*Goofberries, put 

2 Pound of Loaf Sugar, put your Sugar into a 
Preferving Pan, with as much Water as. will 
diffolve it, boil and fkim it well, then put in 
Cc 2 your 


ao4 © The ExprERIENCED 


your Goofberries; let them boil a little, amd 
fet them by ’till the next Day, then boil them 
till they look clear, .and the Syrup thick, then 
put them into Pots or Glaffes, cover them with 


_ Brandy Papers, and kéep them for Ufe. 


To preferve Strawberries whole. 


Get the fineft fcarlet Strawberries with thei 
Stalks on, before they are too ripe, then la 
them feparately on a Chins Difh, beat and 
twiee their Weight of double refined Sugar, 
and ftrew it over them, then take a few ripe 
{carlet Strawberries,. crufh them, and put them 
into a Jar, with their Weight of double refined 
Sugar beat {mall, cover them clofe, and let 
them ftand in a Kettle of boiling Water ’till 
they are foft, and the Syrup is come out of 
them, then ftrain them through a Muflin Rag, 
into a Toffing Pan, boil and {kim it well, when 
it is cold, put in your whoje Strawberries, and 
fet them over the Fire tll they are Milk-warm, 
then take them off, and let them ftand ’till they 
are quite cold, then fet them on again, and 
make them a little hotter, do {fo feveral Times 
‘call chey look clear, but don’t let them boil, it 
will fetch the Stalks off; when the Strawber- 
ries are cold, put them into Jelly Glaffes, with 
their Stalks downwards, and fill up your Glafies 
with the Syrup; tie them down with Brandy 
Papers over them. ae 

They -are very pretty amorigft Jellies, and 
Creams, and proper for fetting out a Defert af 
any Kind. | 

To 


Encirsh HOUSE-KEEPER. 20¢ 
; fi 


Zo preferve White Rafpbernes whole. 


Ger your Rafpberries when they are turning 
white, with the Stalks on about an Inch long, 
lay them fingle on a Difh, beat and fift their 
Weight of double refined Sugar, ftrew it over 
them, to every Quart of Raipberries, take a 

uart of white Currant Juice, put to it its 

eight of double refined Sugar, boil and fkim 
it well, then put in your Rafpberries and give 
them a fcald, take them off and let them ftand 
for two Hours, then fet them on again and 
make them a little hotter, fo do for two or. 
three Times ’till they look clear, but don’t Jet 
them = boil, it will make the Stalks come off, 
when they are pretty cool, put them into Jelly . 
Glafies with the Stalks down, and keep them 

or ute. | 


N. B. You may preferve Red Rafpberries the 
fame Way, only take Red Currant Juice inftead - 
of White. mo, 


To preferve Morello Cherries. 


Grr your Cherries when they are full ripe, 
take out the Stalks and prick them with a Pin, 
-to every two Pounds of Cherries, put a Pound 
and a half of Loaf Sugar, beat Part of your 
Sugar and ftrew it over them, let them ftand 
all Night, diffolve the reft of your Sugar in half 
a Pint of the Juice of Currants, fet it over a 
flow Fire, and put in the Cherries with the 

Sugar, 


306 .. ‘The EXPERIENCED 


Sugar, and give thema gentle fcald, let them 
ftand. all Night again, and give them another 
fcald, then take them. carefully out, and boil 
your Syrup ’till it is thick, then pour % upon 

our Cherries, if you find it be too thip, boil 
it again. — , . 


To preferve Barberries in Bunches. 


Taxe the Female Barberries, pick out all the ~ 


largeft Bunches, therg pick the reft from the 
Stalks, put them in ab much Water.as will 
make a Syrup for your-Bunches, boil them 
‘rill they.are foft, then ftrain them through a 
Sieve, to every Pint of the Juice, put a Pound 
and a half of Loaf Sugar, botl and {cum it 
well, and to every Pint of Syrup, put half a 
Pound of Barberries in Bunches, foil them 
till they look very fine and clear, then put 
them carefully into Pots, or Glaffes; tie Brandy 
Papers over, and keep them for Ufe, 


To preferve Barberries for ‘Tarts. 


Picx the Female Barberries clean from the 
Stalks, then take their Weight in Loaf Sugar, 
ut them ina Jar, and fet them in a Kettle of 
iling Water ’till the Sugar is melted, and 
the Barberries quite foft, the next Day put 
them in a Preferving Pan, and boil them fifteen 
Minutes, then put them jin jars, and keep 
them in a dry cool Place. 


: _— | To 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 204 - 


Ta preferve Damfons. — 


"Yaxe the fmalt long Damfons, pick off the 
Stalks, and prick them with a Pin, then put 


‘them into a deep Pot, with half their Weight 


of Loaf Sugar pounded, fet. them in a mode- 
rate Oven ‘tll they are foft, then take them 
out, and give the Syrep a boil, and pour it 
upon them, do fo for two or three Times, then 
take them carefully out, and put them into 
the Jars you intend to keep them in, and pour 
over them rendered Mutton Suet; tie a Bladder 
over them, and keep, them for Ufe, in a very 
cool Place. 


76 preferve Magnum Bonum Plumbs.’ 


"Faxe the large yellow Plumbs, put them in 
a Pan full of Spring Water, fet them overa 
flow Fire, keep putting them down with a 
Spoon ‘till you find the Skin will come off, 
then take them up and peel the Skin off with 
a Penknife, put them in a fine thin Syrup and 
give them.a -gentle boil, then take them off, 
and turn them pretty often in the Syrup, or the 
Out-fide will turn Brown, when they are quite 
cold, fet them over the Fire again, let them 
boil five or fix Minutes, then take them off. and 
turn them very often in the Syrup ’till they are 


_ fear cold, then take them out and lay them 


feparately on a flat China Difh, {train the Syrup 
through a Muflin Rag, add to it the Weight of 
the Plumbs of fine Loaf Sugar, boil and fkim 

| it 


208 The ExrERIrENCED. 


it very well, then put in your Plumbs, boiz! 
them ‘till they look clear, then put them care- 
fully into Jars or Glaffes, cover them well with 
‘the Syrup, or they will loofe their Colour, put — 


Brandy Papers and a Bladder over them, 


Te preferve Wine Sours. 


Take the fineft Wine Sours you can get, 


- pick off the Stalks, run them down the Seam | 


with a Pin only Skin deep, then take half their _ 


Weight of Loaf Sugar pounded, and lay it be- 
twixt your Plumbs in Layers ’till your Jars is 
full, fet them in a Kettle of boiling Water ’tll 
they are foft, then drain the Syrup from them, 
and give ita boil, and pour it on them; do fo 
for feveral Times, ’till you fee the Skin’ look 
hard and the Plumbs clear, let them ftand a 
Week, then take them out one by one, and 
put them. into Glafles, Jars, or Pots, give your 
Syrup a boil, if you-have not Syrup enough, 
boil a little clarified Sugar with your Syrup, and 
fill up your Glaffes, Jars, or Pots, with it, and 
put Brandy Papers over, and tie a Bladder over 
them to Keep out the Air, or they will loofe 


_their Colour and grow a purple. 


They are pretty with either Steeple Cream, 
any Kind of Flummeries, or under a Silver 
eb. 


To 


EncLish HOUSE-KEEPER, 209 


To preferve Apricots. 


" Pare yourApricots, and thruft out the Stones 
with a Skewer, to every Pound of Apricots, 

‘put a Pound of Loaf Sugar, ftrew Part of it 
over them, and- let them ftand ’till the next 
Day, then give them a gentle boil three or 
four different Times, let them go cold betwixt 
every Time, take them out of the Syrup one 
by one, the laft Time as you boil them, fkim 
your Syrup well, boil it ‘till it looks thick and 
lear, then pour it over your Apricots, and put 
_ Brandy Papers over them. 


To preferve Peaches. 


Ger the largeft Peaches before they are too 
ripe,. rub off fhe Lint with a Cloth, then run 
them down the Seam with 2 Pin, Skin deep, 
cover them with French Brandy, tie a Bladder 
over them, and let them ftand a Week, then | 
take them out, and make a {trong Syrup for 
them, bvil and fkim it well, put.in your 
Peaches, and boil them ‘till they look clear, 
then take them out, and put them into Pots, 
| or Glaffes, mix the Syrup with the Brandy, 
when it is cold, pour it on your Peaches; tie 
them clofe down with ‘a Bladder, that the Air 
cannot get in, or the Peaches will turn Black, 


Dd... 


aio. The Exreritncen 


‘To preferve Quinces whole. 


-ParE your Quinces very thin and round, 
that they may look like a Screw, then put 
them into a well tinned Sauce Pan, with anew 
Pewter Spoon in the Middle of them, and 4 

our Sauce Pan with hard Water, and lay the 

arings over your Quinces, to keep them 
down, cover ‘your Sauce Pan fo clofe that the 


Steam cannot get out, fet them over a flow | 


Fire till they are foft, ‘and a fine pink Colour, 
let them ftand ’till they are cold, and makea 


food Syrup of double refined-Sugar, boil and | 
im it. well, then put in your Quinces, let — 


them boil ten Minutes, take them off, ‘and let | 


them ftand two or three Hours, then boil them 
‘ill the Syrup looks thick, and the Quinces 
cléar, then put them in deep Jars, with Brandy 
Papers and Leather over them; keep them in 
a dry Place for Ufe. 7 


—_—-» -.. cnr ene 


N. B, You may preferve Quinces in Quarters | 


the fame Way. 
Fo preferve. Oranges carved, 


‘Take the faireft Seville Oranges you can | 
get, cut the Rinds with a Pen-knife ia what — 


Form y6u pleafe, draw out the Part of your 
Peel as you cut them, and put them into Salt 
and hard Water, let them ftand for three Days, 
to take out the Bitter, then boil them an Hour 
in a large Sauce Pan of frefh Water, with Salt 


in 


EncuisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 211 


in it, but don’t cover them, it will fpoil the 
Colour, then, take them out of the Salt and 
Water, and boil them ten Minutes in a thin 
Syrup, for four og five Days together, then put 
them into adeep Jar, let them ftand two Months, 
and then make a thick Syrup, and juf give 
them a boil in it, let them ftand ’till the next 
Day; then put them in your Jar, with Brandy 
Papers over; tie them down with a Bladder, 
and keep them for Ufe, 


N.B, You may preferve whole Oranges with- 
out carving, the fame Way, only don’t let 
' them boil fo long, and keep them in a ve 
thin Syrup at firft, or ic will make them fhrink 
and wither.—Always obferve to put Salt in the 
.Water for either Oranges preferved, or any 
Kind of Orange Chips. 


To preferve Oranges in Jelly. 


_ Taxe Seville Oranges, and cut a Hole out at 
the Stalk as large as a Six-pence, and {coop out 
the Pulp quite clean, tie them feparately in 
Muflin, and lay them in Spring Water for two 
Days, change the Water twice a Day, then boil 
them in the Muflin ’till tender upon a flow 
Fire, asthe Water wafteth put hot Water into 
the Pan and keep them covered, weigh the O- 
ranges before you scoop them, and to every 
Pound, put two Pounds of double refined Sugar, 
and one Pint of Water, boil the Sugar and 
Water with the Juice of the Oranges to a Syrup, 

Dd2 {cum 


212 The ExperRrENCED - 


{cum it very well, lec it ftand nll cold, then 
put in the Oranges and boil them half an 
Hour, if they are not quite clear, boil them 
once a Day for two or three Days, pare, and 
core fome green Pippins, and ‘boil them ‘all 
the Water is flrong of the Apple, but don’t ftir 
the Apples, only put them down in the Water 
with the back of a Spoon, ftrain the Water 
through a Jelly Bag ‘till quite clear, then to 
every Pint of Water, put one Pound of double 
refined Sugar, and the Juice of a Lemon ftrain- 
ed fine, boil it up to a ftrong Jelly, drain the 
Oranges out of the Syrup, put them into Glafs 
Jars, or Pots the Size of an Orange with the 
Holes upwards, and pour the Jelly over them, 
cover them with Brandy Papers, and tie them 
clofe down with Bladders. 


N. B, You may do Lemons the fame Way. 
Lo preferve Lemons. 


Carve or pare your Lemons very thin, and 
make a round Hole on the Top, ‘the Size of a 
Shilling, take out all the Pulp and Skins, rub 
them with Salt, and put them in Spring Water 
as you do them, to prevent them from turn- 
ing Black, let them lie in for five or fix Days, 
then boil them in frefh Salt and Water, fifteen 
Minutes, have ready made a thin Syrup, of a 
Quart of Water, and a Pound of Loaf Sugar, 
boil them in it five Minutes, once a Day, for 
four or five Days, then put them into a large 
Jar, let them ftand for fix or eight Weeks, and 
. uw 


a) 
, nee 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER, 213 


it will make them look clear and plump, then 

take them out of that Syrup, or they will 
mould; make a Syrup of fine Sugar, put as 
much Water to it as will diflolve it, boil and 
fkim it, then pat in your Lemons, and boil 
them gently ‘till they are clear, then put them 
‘into a Jar, with Brandy Papers over them; tie 
them clofe down, and keep them in a dry 
Place for Ufe. 


To preferve Oranges with Marmalade. 


PARE your Oranges as thin as you can, then 
cut a Hole in the Stalk-end, the Size of a 
Six-pence, take out all the Pulp, then put your 
Oranges in Salt and Water, boil them a little 
more than an Hour, but don’t cover them, it - 
will turn them 2 bad Colour, have ready made 
2 Syrup of a Pound of fine Loaf Sugar, witha 
Pint of Water, putin your Oranges, boil them 
till they look clear, then pick out all the Skins 
and Pippins out of your Pulp, and cut one of 
your Oranges into it, as thin as poffible, and 
take its Weight of double refined Sugar, boil 
it in a clean Tofling Pan over a flow clear Fire, 
‘till it looks quite clear and tranfparent, when 
itis cold, take your Oranges out and fill them 
with your Marmalade, and put on your Top, . 
and put them in your Syrup again, let them 
ftand for two Months, then make a Syrup of 
double refined Sugar, with as much Water as 
will diffolve it, boil and {kim it well, then give 
your Oranges a boil in it; put Brandy Papers 

over, 


| 
over, and tie them down with a Bladder, they | 
will keep for feveral Years. . 


To make Bullace Cheefe. - 


Takz your Bullace when they are full ripe, 
put them into 2 Pot, and to every Quart of 
Bullace, put a quarter of a Pound of Loaf 
- Sugar beat fmall, bake them in a moderate 
Oven ’till they are foft, then rub them through 
a Hair Sieve, to every Pound of Pulp add half | 
a Pound of Loaf Sugar beat fine, then boilit , 
an Hour and a Half over a flow Fire and keep | 
flirring it all the Time, then pour it into Potting ‘ 
Pots, and tie Brandy Papers-over them, an ' 
keep them in a dry Place; when it-has ftooda 
* few Months it will cut out very bright and fine. 


214 . |-The ExPERIENCED 


N..B. You may make Sloe Cheefe the fame 
. | "Way. 


—> 


, To make Elder Rob. 


GaTHER your Elderberries when :they are 
full ripe, pick them clean from. the Stalks, 
put them in large Stew Pots and tie a Paper 
over them, put them in a moderate Oven, let 
them ftand two Hours, then take them out, 
and put them in 2 thin coarfe Cloth and fqueeze 
out all the Juice you can get, then put eight 
Quarts into a well-tinned Copper, fet it over a 
flow Fire, let it boil’ ull it be reduced to one 
Quart, when it grows near done, keep ftirring 
it tO prevent its burning to the Bottom, then 

put 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. ars 


put it into Potting Pots, let rt ftand two or three 
Days in the Sun, then dip a Paper in Sweet Oil 
the Size of your Pot, and lay it on, tie it dawn 
with a Bladder, and keep it in a very dry Place 
for Ufe. ae : 


7 To make Black Currant Rob. 


Ger your Currants when they are ripe, pick, 
bake, and fqueeze them the fame as you. did 
‘tthe Elderberries, then put fix Quarts of the 
Juice into a large. Tofliag Pan, oil it over a 
flow Fire ’till it is pretty thick, keep ftirring it 
"till ic is reduced to one Quart, pour it into flat 
Pots, dry. it, and tie it down the fame Way as 
you did your Elder Rob.. 3 : 


CHAP, IX. 
Obfervations on Drying axd Candying. 


Brett you Candy any Sort of Fruit, pre- 

ferve them firft, and.dry them in a Stove, 
or before the Fire, ‘till the Syrup is run out of 
them, then boil your Sugar, Candy height, 
dip in the Fruit, and lay them in Difhes in 

your Stove ‘till dry, then put them in Boxes, 
and keep them in a dry Place. | 3 


To make Apricot Pafte. 
Pare and ftone your Apricots, boil them in 


Water “till they..will math quite {mall, puta 
so Pound 


. e e 
: a nel a ea lm nr Oe - 


216 The ExPpERIEN@ED 


Pound of double refined Sugar in your ‘Pre- 
ferving Pan, with as much Water as will dif- 
folve it, and boil it to Sugar again, take it off 
the Stove, and put in a Pound of Apricots, let 
it ftand ’till the Sugar is melted, then make it 
fcalding hot, but don’t let it boil, pour it into 
China Difhes, or Cups, fet them in a Stove, 
when they are ftiff enough to turn out, put 
‘them. on Glafs Plates, turn them as you fee 
Occafion till they are dry. 


To make Rafpberry Patfte. 


_. Masu a Quart of Rafpberries, ftrain one ' 
half, and put the Juice to the other half, boil 
_ them a quarter of an Hour, put to them a Pint 
of Red Currant Juice, let them boil all toge- | 
ther ’till your Berries are enough, put a Pound: 
and a half of double refined Sugar into a clean 
Pan, with as much Water as will diffolve it, | 
and boil it to Sugar again, then put in your | 
Berries and Juice, give them a fcald, and pour 
it into Glaffes or Plates, then put them into 2 
. stove to dry, and turn them as you fee Occa- 
on. | 


To make Goosberry Pafte. 


TAKE a Pound of Red Goofberries when they | 
are full grown and turned, but not ripe, cut | 
them in Halves, pick out all the Seeds, have | 
ready a Pint of Currant Juice, boil your Goof: | 
berries int it ’till they are tender, put a Pound | 
and a half of double refined Sugar into your 
Pan, | 


_Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. 217 


Pan, with'as much Water as will diffolve ic, 
and boil it to Sugar again, then put all toge- 
ther and make it fcalding hot, but it muft not 
boil, pour it into Plates or Glaffes the thicknefs 
you like, then dry it in a Stove. 


To make Currant Pafte either Red or White. 


StrRip your Currants, put a little Juice to 
them to keep them from burning, boil them 
well, and rub them through a Hair Sieve, then 
boil it a quarter of an Hour; toa Pint of Juice 
‘put a Pound and a half of double refined Sugar . 
ifted, fhake in your Sugar, when it is melted, 
pour it on Plates, dry it as the other Paftes, and 
turn it into what Form you pleafe. 


To make Currant Clear Cake. 


Strip and wafh your Currants, to four 
Quarts of Currants put one Quart of Water, 
boil them very well, then run it through a Jelly 
Bag, to a Pint of Jelly put a Pound and a half 
of double refined Sugar, pounded and fifted 
through a Hair Sieve, fet your gelly on the 
Fire, when. it has jpft boiled up then fhake in 
the Sugar, ftir it well, then fet it on the Fire 
again, mtake it {fcalding hot to melt the Sugar, 
but do not let it boil, then pour it on Clear Cake 
Glaffes or Plates, when it is Jellied before it is 

Candied, cut it in Rounds or half Rounds, this 
will not knot; and dry them the fame way as 
you did the Apricot Pafte. LO 


Ee - White 


218 ‘The ExPpERIENCED 


White Currant Clear Cakes ate made the fatae 
Way, but obferve, that as foon as the Jelly is 
made, you. muft put the Sugar to it, or it will 
change the Colour. 


To make Violet Cakes. 


Take the fineft Violets you can get, pick off 
the Leaves, beat thé Violets fine in a Mortar, 
with the Juice of a Lemon, beat and fift twice 
their Weight of double refined Sifgar, put yout 
Sugar and Violets into a Silver Sauce Pan, or 
Tankard, fet it over a flow Fire, keep ftirrin§ 
it gently ‘till all your Sugar is diflolved, if you - 
let it boil it will difcolour your Violets, drop 
them in China Plates; when you take them off, 
put them in a Box with Paper betwixt every 
Layer. 3 


To dry Cherries. 


Tak Morello Cherries, ftone them, arid to 
every Pound of Cherries, put a Poutid ard ea 
quarter of fine Sugar, beat and fift it over your 
Cherries, let them ftand all Night, take them 
out of your Sugar, and to every Pouhd of 
Sugar put.two Spoonfuls of Water, boil and 
{cum it well, then put in your Cherries, kt 
your Sugar boil over them, the next Morning 
ftrain them, and to every Pound of the Syrap 
put half a Pound more Sugar, let it boil a | 

ittle thicker, then put in your Cherries, and 
Jet them boil gently, the next Day ftrain them, 
and . 


| 


EncirshH HOUSE-KEEPER. 219 


and dry them in a Stove, and turn them every 
Day. 


“A fecond Way to dry Cherries. 


Sa-omz a Pound and a half of Cherries, put _ 


them in a Preferving Pan, with a little Water, 
when .they are fcalding hot, put them in a 
Sieve, or on a Cloth to dry, then put them in 
your Pan again, beat and fift half a Pound of 
double refined Sugar, ftrew it betwixt every 


Lay of Cherries, when it is ‘melted, fet them | 


on the Fire, and make them {calding hot, let 
them ftand ‘till they are cold, do fo twice 
more, then drain them from the Syrup, and 
lay them feparately to dry, dip them in cold 
Water, and dry them with a Cloth, fet them 
in the hot Sun to dry as before, and keep them 
in a dry Place ’tull you want to ufe them. 


fo dry Green Gage Plumbs. 


Make a thin Syrup of half a Pound of fingle | 


refined Sugar, fkim it well, flit a Pound of 
Plumbs down the Seam, and put them in the 
Syrup, keep them fcalding hot ‘till. they are 
tender, they muft be well covered with Syrup, 
or they will lofe their Colour, let them ftand 
all Night, then make a rich Syrup, to a Pound 
_ of double refined Sugar, put two Spoonfuls af 
» Water, fkim it well, and boil it almoft to a 
Candy, when it is cold, drain your Plumbs 
out of the firft Syrup, and put them in the 
_ thick Syrup, be fure let the Syrup cover them, 
: ) E € 2 et 


220 - The ExPERIENCED 


{et them on the Fire to fcald nll they look clear 
then put them in a China Bowl, when they 
have ftood a Week, take them out, and lay 
_ them on China Dithes, dry. them in a Stove, 
turn them once a Day "tll they are dry.—If you 
would have them green, fcald them with Vine 
Leaves, the fame Way as the Green Gages are 
done, | 


To make Apricot Cakes. 


TAKE a Pound of nice ripe Apricots, fcald 
them, and as foon as you find the Skin will 
come off, peel them and take out the Stones, | 
beat them ‘in a Marble Mortar to a Pulp, boil 
half a Pound of double refined Sugar, with a 
Spoonful of Water, fkim it exceeding well, 
then put in the Pulp of your Apricots, let them 
fimmer a quarter of an Hour over a flow Fire, 
ftir it foftly all the Time, then pour it into 
fhallow flat Glaffes, turn them out upon Glafs | 
Plates, put them in a Stove, and turn them 
once a Day ’till they are dry. . 


To burn Almonds. 


TAKE two Pounds of Loaf Sugar, two Pounds 
of Almonds, put them in a Stew Pan witha 
Pint of Water, fet them over a clear Caal Fire, 
let them boil ’till you hear the Almonds to 
crack, take them off and ftir them about 'till . 
_ they are quite dry, then put them in a Wine 
Sieve and fift all the Sugar from them, put the 
Sugar into the Pan again with a little Water, 

. give 


nn a_i -™ saerlrlhrh_erlUcOC Orr 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 221 
give it a -boil, put four Spoonfuls of fcraped 


- Cochineal to the Sugar to Colour it, put the 


Almonds into the Pan, keep ftirring them over 
the Fire ’till they are quite dry, put them into 
a Glafs and they will keep twelve Months, 


To dry Damfons. 


Get you Damfons when they are full ripe, 
{pread them on a coarfe Cloth, fet them ina 
very cool Oven, let them: ftand a Day or two, 
if they are not as dry as a frefh Prune, put 
them in another cool Oven for a Day or two 
longer, ‘till they are pretty dry, then take them 
out, and lay them in a dry Place; they will eat 
like frefh Plumbs in the Winter, 


To candy Ginger. 


Bzat two Pounds of fine Loaf Sugar, put 
one Pound in a Tofling Pan, with as much 
Water as will diffolve it, with one Ounce of 
Race Ginger grated fine, ftir them well toge- 
ther over a very flow Fire ’till the Sugar begins 
to bnil, then ftir in the other Pound, and kee 
jurring it ‘tll it grows thick, then take it 0 
the Fire, and drop it in Cakes upon Earthen 
Difhes, fet them in a warm Place to dry, and 
wey -will look White, and be very hard and 
DIute, 


To 


222 — The ExPERIENCED 


. To make Orange Chips. 


Taxe the beft Seville Oranges, pare them 
a-flant, a quarter of an Inch broad, if you cay 
keep the Paring whole, it looks much prettier, 
when you have pared them ali, put them in 
Salt and Spring Water, for a Day or two, then 
boil them in 9 large Quantity of Spring Water 
till they are tender, then drain them on a 
Sieve, have ready a thin Syrup, made of a 


Quart of Water, and a Pound of fine Sy gar, 


boil them (a few at a Time to keep them from 
breaking,) ‘all they look clear, then put them 
into a Syrup made of fine Loaf Sugar, with as 
much Water as will diffolve it, and boil them 
to a Candy height, when you take them up, 
Jay them on Sieves, and grate double refined 
Sugar all over them, and put them in a Stove, 
or by the Fire to dry, and keep them ina dry 
Place for Ufe. 


To dry Currants ia Bunches. 


WueEn the Currants are ftoned and tied up 
in Bunches, to every Pound of Currants, take 
a Pound and a half of Sugar, and to every 
Pound of Sugar, put half a Pine of Water, 
boil the Syrup very well, lay your Cyrrants in 
it, fet them on the Fire, and let them juft boul, 
take them off, cover it clofe with a Paper, let 
them ftand ’till the next Day, then make them 
{calding hot, let them ftand for two or three 
Days, with a Paper clofe to them, then lay 

them 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 293 


them on Earthen Plates, and fift them well - 
over with Sugar, fue them in a Stove to dry, 
the next Day lay them on Sieves, but do not 
turn them ’till the upper Side ts dry, theh tarn 
them, and fift the other Sidé well with Sugar; 
when they até quite dry, lay them betwixt 
Papers. oS 


To dry Apricots. 


_ "Faxt a Pound of Apricots, pare ahd ftone 
them, put them in your Toffing Pan, pound 
and fift half a Pound of double refined Sugar 
ftrew a little amongft them, and lay the re 
ever thérh, let them ftand twenty-four Hours, 
turn them three or four Times in the Syrup, 
then boil them pretty quick ’till they look clear, 
when they are cold, take them out, and lay 
them on Glaflés, put them into a Stove, and 
turn them every half Hour, the next Day 
every Hour, ahd after as you fee Occafion. 


Lémon Drogs. 


_ Dip a Lump of treble refined Loaf Sugar 
in Water, boil it ftiffith, take it off, rub it with 
the Back of .a Silver Spoon, to the Side of your 
Pan, then grate in fome Lemon Peel, boil it 
ip, and drop it on Paper; if you want it Red, 
put in a little Cochineal. | 


To 


224 The ‘EXPERIENCED 


‘To dry Peaches. 


Pane and ftone the. largeft Newington 
Peaches, have ready a Sauce Pan of boilin 


_ Water, put in the Peaches, let them boil ’n 


they are tender, lay them on a Sieve to drain, 
then weigh them, and put them in the Pan 


_ they were boiled in, and cover them with their 


Weight of Sugar, let them lie two or three 
Hours, then boil them ‘till: they are clear, and 
the Syrup pretty thick, let them ftand all Night 
covered clofe, {cald them very well, then take 
them off to cool, then fet them on again ’tll 
the Peaches are thoroughly hot, do this for 
three Days, lay them on Plates to dry, and 
turn them every Day. 


To candy Angelica. 
Taxe it when young, cut it in Lengths, 
cover it clofe, and boil it ’till it is tender, pecs 
it and put it in again, let it fimmer and boil 


_ *ullitis green, then take it up, and dry it with 


a Cloth, to every Pound of Stalks, put a Pound 
of Sugar, put your Stalks into an Earthen Pan, 
beat the Sugar and ftrew over them, let it 
ftand two Days, then boil it ’till it is clear and 
green, put it ina Cullender to drain, boil 3 
Pound of Sugar to Sugar again, ftrew it on 
your Angelica, lay it on Plates to dry, and fet 
them in the Oven after the Pies are drawn.— 


.Three Pounds and a half of Sugar is enough 


to four Pounds of Stalks. 


To 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. aas 


To candy Lemon or Orange Peel. 


Cut your Lemons or Oranges long-ways, 
and cake out all the Pulp, and put the Rinds 
into 2 pretty rong Salt and hard Water fx | 
Days, then boil them in a large Quantity of 
Spring Water ‘till they are tender, then take 
them out and lay them on a Hair Sieve to drain, 
then make a thin Syrup of fine Loaf Sugar, a 
Pound to a Quart of Water; put in your Peels 
and boil them half an Hour, or ’till they look 
clear, have ready a thick Syrup made of fine 
‘Loaf Sugar, with as much Water as will dif- 
folve it, put in your Peels, and boil them over 
a flow Fire, "till you fee the S candy about 
the Pan and Peels, then take them out, and 
grate fine Sugar all over them, lay them ona 
Hair Sieve to drain, and fet them in a Stove, 
or before the Fire to dry, and keep them in a 
dry Place for Ufe. So 


N. B. Don’t cover your Sauce Pan when you 
: boil either Lemons or Oranges. © 


To boil Sugar, Candy height. 


Put a Pound of Sugar into a clean Toffing 
Pan, with half a Pint of Water, fet it over a 
very clear flow Fire, take off the Scum as it 
Tifes, boil it ‘till it looks fine and clear, then 
* take out a little with a Silver Spoon, when it 
4s cold, if it will draw a Thread from your 
Spoon, it is boiled high enough for any Kind 

r 


. 


226 The ExpERIENCED 


of Sweet-meat, then boil your Syrup, and when 
it begins to candy round the Edge of your Pan, 
itis Candy height. 


N.B. It is a great Fault to put any Kind of 
Sweet-meats into too thick a Syrup, efpecially 
at the firft, for ic withers your Fruit, and takes 
off both the Beauty and Flavour. 


CHAP, X. 


Obférvations upon Creams, Cuftards, and 
| Cheefe-cakes. 


W HEN you make any Kind of Creams — 
and Cuftards, take greatCare your Tof- 
fing Pan be well tinned, put a Spoonful of 
Water in it, to prevent the Cream from ftick- 
ing to the Bottom of your Pan, then beat your 
Yolks of Eggs, and ftrain out the Treads, and 
follow the Directions of your Receipt.—As to 
Cheefe-cakes they fhould not be made long be- 
fore you back them, particularly Almond or 
Lemon Cheefe-cakes, for ftanding makes them 
oil and grow fad, a moderate Oven bakes them 
beft, if it is too hot it burns them and takes 
off the Beauty, and a very flow Oven makes 
them fad and look black; make your Cheefe- 
cakes up juft when the Oven is of a proper 
heat, and they will rife well and be of a pro- 
per Colour. 


To 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 227 _ 


| To make Piftacho. Cream. 


Taxe half a Pound of Piftacho Nuts, take 
out the Kernels, beat them in a Mortar with a 


Spoonful of Brandy, put them into a Toffing 


Pan, with a Pint of good Cream and the Yolks 
of two Eggs beat fine, ftir it gently over a very 
flow Fire ‘ull it grows thick, then put it into 
a China Soup Plate, when it is cold, ftick it all 


_ over with {mall Pieces, and feryveitup, = 


“™s 


To make Chocolate Cream. 


Chocolate, put fogjcgfs much Water as will dif- 
folve it, put it im Marble Mortar, beat it half 
an Hour, put in as much fine Sugar as will 
fweeten it and a Pint and a half of Cream, 
mill it, and as the Froth rifes lay it on a Sieve, 
put the remainder Part of your Cream in Poffet 
Glaffes, and lay the frothed Cream upon them. 


ScRAPE fine ‘4: of a Pound of the beft 


It makes a pretty Mixture upon a Set of Salvers. 
- To make Spanifh Cream. . 


DissoLvE in a quarter of a Pint of Rofe Wa- . 
ter, three quarters of an Ounce of Ifinglafs cut 
{mall,-run it through a Hair Sieve, add to it 
the Yolks of three Eggs, beat and mixed with 
half a Pint of Cream, two Sorrel Leaves, and — 
gat to your Tafte, dip the Dith in cold Water 

re you put in the Cream, then cut it out 
_ : Ff 2 ; with 


4248 The Exrerr ENCED 


. with a Jiging Iron, and lay it in Rings round 
different coloured Sweet-meats, 


To make Ice Cream. 


Park, ftone, and {cald twelve ripe Apricots, 
beat them fine in a Marble Mortar, put to them 
fix Ounces of double refined Sugar, a Pint of 
{calding Cream, work it thrqugh a Hair Sieve, 
put it into a Tin that has a clofe Cover, fet is 
in a Tub of Ice broken fmall, and 2 large 
Quantity of Salt put amongft it, when you fee 
- your Cream grow thick round the Edges of 
your. Tin, fiir it, and fet it in again ’til] it all 
grows quite thick, when your Cream is all 
Froze up, take it out of your Tin, and put it | 
in the Mould you intend it to be turned out of, ° 
then put on the Lid, and have ready another 
Tub with Ice and. Salt in as before, put your 
Mould in the Middle, and lay your Ice under 
and over it, let it ftand four or five Hours, dip 
your Tin in warm Water when you turn it out; 
if it be Summer, you muft not turn it out ’till 
the Moment you want it; you may ufe any 
Sort of Fruit if you have. not Apricots, only 
ebferve to work it fine, = 


76 make Clotted Cream. 


Pur one Tea Spoonfal of Earning into a 
Quart of good Cream, when it comes to a Curd 
break it very carefully with a Silver Spoon, lay 
it upon a Sieve to drain a little, put it intoa 
China Soup Plate, pour over it forne good 

. ., Cream 


Enciursn, HOUSE-KEEPER. 229 


Cream, with the Juice of Rafpberries, Dam- 
fons, or any kind of Fruit to ‘make ita fine 
pink Colour, fweeten it to your Tafte, and lay 
round it a few Strawberry Leaves. 


It is proper for a ‘Middle at Supper, or a Cor~ 
ner at Dinner. 8 


To make Hartfhorn Cream. 


Taxze four Ounces of.Hartfhorn Shavings, 
boil. them in three Pints of Water ’till it is re- 
duced to half a Pint, run it through a Jelly 
Bag, put to it a Pint of Cream, let it juft boil 
up, theh put it into Jelly Glaffes, let it ftand. 
‘tll at is cold, by dipping your Glafles into 
{calding Water it will flip out whole, then ftick ° 

m all over ‘with Slices of Almonds cut 
length-way: It.eats well with White Wine and 
Sugar, like Flummery. 


To make Ribband Cream. 


Take eight ‘Quarts of new: Milk, fet it on 
the Firé, when it is ready to boil put in a Quart 
of pood Cream, earn it, and pour it into a 
large Bowl, let it Rand all Night, then take off 
the Gream, and lay it on a Sieve to drain, cut 
it to the Size of your Glaffes, and lay red, 
green, or coloured Sweet-meats between every — 


f a 


Layer of Cream, 


Lo 


230 The EXPERIENCED 


To make Lemon Cream. 


Take a Pint of Spring Water, the Rinds of 
two Lemons pared very thin, and the Juice of 
three,. beat the Whites of fix Epgs very well, 
mfx the Whites. with the Water and Lemon, 
. put Sugar to your Tafte, then fet it over the 
Fire, and keep ftirring jt ‘till it thickens, but 
don’t let it boil, ftrain it through a Cloth, beat 
the Yolks of fix Eggs, put it over the Fire ‘till 
it be quite thick, then put it into a Bowl to 
cool; and put it in your Glaffes, i. . 


To make Steeple Cream: with Wine Sours. 


. Take one Pint of ftrong. clear Calf’s-Foat ‘ 
Jelly, the Yolks of four hard Eggs, pounded 
in a Mortar exceeding fine, with the fuice of a 
Seville Orange, and as.much:double refined 
Sugar as will make it fweet, when your Jelly 
is warm put it in, and keep dtjrring it ’till it is 
cold and grows as thick as Cream, then put it 
into Jelly Glaffes, the next Day turn it out into 
a Difh with preferved Wine Sours, ftick a Spng 
of Myrtle in the Top of every Cream, 
ferve it up with Flowers round it. 


_.. To make Rafpberry Gream. 


Take a Quart of Rafpberries, or Rafpberry 
Jam, rub it through a Hair Sieve to take out 
the Seeds, mix it well with your Cream, put 
ya as much Loaf Sugar as will make it P ea- 
| ant, 


EncuisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 231 


fant, then put it into a Milk Pot to raife a Froth 
with a Chocolate Mill, as your Froth rifes take 
st off with a Spoon, lay it upon a Hair Sieve, 
When you have: got what Froth you have Oc- 
tafion for, put the remainder of your Cream 
Into a deep China Difh, or Punch Bowl, put 
your frothed Cream upon it as high as it will 

ie on, then ftick a light Flower in the Middle 
and fend it up. | 


It is proper for a Middle at Supper, or a Cor- 
| ner at Dinner. 


_ Lemon Cream with Peel.: 


} Bor a Pint of Cream, when it is half cold 
put in the Yolks of four Eggs, ftir it ’till itis — 
cold, then fet it over the Fire, with four Ounces 
of Loaf Sugar, a Tea Spoonful of grated Le- 
mon ‘Peel, ftir them ’till it is pretty hot, take 
it off the Fire and put it in a Bafon to cool, 
when it is cold put it in Sweet-meat Glafles, 
lay Pafte Knots, or Lemon Peel cut like long 
Straws over the Tops of your Glaffes. 


It is proper to be put upon a Bottom Salver 
amonett Jellies and Whips. 


Orange Cream. 


axe the Juice of four Seville Oranges, and 
the Out-rind of one pared exceeding fine, put 

them into a Tofling Pan with one Pint of Wa- 
_ ter, and eight Ounces of Sugar, beat the Whites 
| . a 


t 


232. The ExrpgrRiENCED 


of five Eggs, fet it over the Fire, fiir it one way 
“ill it grows thick and White, ftrain it throngh 
a Gauze Sieve, Mir it ’ijll it is cold, then beag 

the Yolks of five Eggs exceeding well, put it 
in your Tofling Pan with rhe Cream, ftir it over 
a very flow Fire ‘till it is ready to boil, purit. 
into 2 Bafon to cool, and ftir it ‘tll it is quite 
cold, then put it into Jelly Glafles: Send it in 
upon a Salver with Whips and Jellies. 


To make Burnt Cream. 


Boit a Pint of Cream with Sugar, and a 
little Lemon Peel fhred fine, then beat the 
Yolks of fix and the Whites of four Eggs fe- 
parately, when your Cream is cooled, put in, 
your Eggs, with a Spoonful of Orange Flower 
Water, and one of fine Flour, fet it over the 
Fire, keep ftirring it till itis thick, put it ins 
a Difh, when it is cold, fift a Quarter of 2 
Pound of Sugar all over, hold a hot Sajaman- 
der over it ’tll it is very Brown, and looks like 
a Glafs Plate put over your Cream, | 


To make La Pompadour Cream. 


Beat the Whites of five Eggs to a ftrong 
Froth, put them into a Toffing Pan, with two 
Spoonfuls of Orange Flower Water, two Ounces 
of Sugar, ftir it gently for three or four Mi- 
mutes, then pour it into your Difh, and pour 
good melted Butter over it, and fend it in hot. 


It is a pretty Corner Dith for a fecond-Courfe | 
Ho at Dinner. | 
To" 


a 


EncrisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 233 


To make a Trifle. 


Pur three large Mackroons in the Middle of 
your Dith, pour as much White Wine over 
them as they will Drink, then take a Quart of 
Cream, put in as much Sugar as will make it 
fweet, rub your Sugar upon the Rind of a Le- 
mon to fetch out the Eflence, put your Cream 
into a Pot, mill it to a ftrong Froth, lay as much 
Froth upon a Sieve as will fill the Dith you in- 
tend to put your Trifle in, put the remainder 
of your Cream into a Toffing Pan, with a Stick 
of Cinnamon, the Yolke of four Eggs well 
beat, and Sugar to your Tafte, fet them over a 
gentile Fire, ftir it one Way ’till it is thick, then 
Make it off the ‘Fire, pour it wpon your Mack- 
-Toons,.when it is cold ut on your frothed 
Cream, lay round it different coloured Sweet- 
meats,.and fmall fhot Comfits in, and Figures 

or Flowers, | | a 


Almond Cuftards. 


Pur a Quart of Cream into a Toffing Pan, a 
Stick of Cinnamon, a Blade or two of Mace, 
boil ic and fet it to cool, blanch two Ounces of 
Almonds, beat them fine in « Marble Mortar 

‘with Rofe Water, if you like a Ratafia Tafte, 

_ put in a few Apricot Kernels of bitter Almonds, 
mix them with your Cream, fweeten it to your 
Tafte, fet it on a flow Fire, keep ftirring it ’till 
it is pretcry thick, if you let it boil it will Cur- 
dle, pour it into Cups, &c. 


Gg To 


234 ... The “EXPERIENCED 


To make Lemon Cuftards. 


Take a Pintof Whité Wine, half a Pound of 
double refined Sugar, the Juice of two Lemons, 


‘the Out-rind of one pared very thin, the In- 
ner-rind of one boiled tender and rubbed thro’ 
a Sieve, let them boil a good while, then take. 


out the Peel and a little of the Liquor, fet it to 
cool, pour the reft into the Difh-you intend for 
it; beat four Yolks and two Whites of Eggs, 


mix thém with your cool Liquor, ftrain them 


into your Difh, ftir them well up together, fet 
it on a flow Fire, or boiling Water to bake as a. 
Cuftard, when it’s enough, grate the Rind of 
a Lemon all over the Top; you may Brown it 
over with a hot Salamander.—It may be eat ° 
either hot or cold. 


To make Orange Cuftards. 


Bort the Rind of half a Seville Orange very 
tender, beat it in a Marble Mortar ’till it is very 
fine, put to it one Spoonful of the beft Brandy, 
the Juice of a Seville Orange, four Ounces of 
Loaf Sugar, and the Yolks of four Eggs, beat 
them all together ten Minutes, then pour in 
by Degrees a Pint of boiling Cream, ‘keep beat- 
ing them ’till they are cold, put them in Cul- 
tard Cups, and {tt them in an Earthen Dith of 
hot Water, let them ftand ’till they are fet, 
then take them out, and ftick preferved Orange 
on the Top, and ferve them up either hot or 
cold. ee. | 

t 


EnctrsH. HOUSE-KEEPER. 236 


It is a pretty Corner Difh for Dinner, or a Side 


Difh for Supper. 


To make a-common Cuftard. 


. Take a Quart of good Cream, fet it over a 
flow Fire, with .a little Cinamon, four Ounces 
of Sugar, when it.has boiled, take it off the 


| Fire, beat the Yolks of eight Eggs, put to 


them a Spoonful of Orange Flower Water, to 
revent the Cream from cracking, ftir them in 


y Degrees as your Cream cools, put the Pan 


over a very flow Fire, ftir them carefully one 


Way ’till it is almoft boiling, then put it into © 


Cups, and ferve them up. 
To make a Beeft Cuftard. 


Take a. Pint of Beeft, fet it over the Fire, 
with a little Cinamon, or three Bay Leaves, let 
it be boiling. hot, then take it off, and have 
ready mixed one Spoonful of Flour and a 
Spoonful of thick Cream, pour your hot Beeft 
upon it by Degrees, mix it exceeding well to- 
gether, and fweeten it to your Tafte; you may 
either put it in Crufts or Cups, or bake it. 


To make Fairy Butter. 


Take the Yolks’ of four Eggs boiled hard, 

a quarter of a Pound of' Butter, beat two 
Ounces of Sugar in a large Spoonful of Orange 
Flower Water, beat them all together to a fine 
Pafle, let it ftand two or three Hours, then rub 
: G g2 it 


236 The ExPRRIENCED 
it through a Cullender upon a Plate; it hoks 


very pretty. 
To make Almond Cheefe-cakes. 


TAKE four Oufices of Jordan Almonds, 
blanch them and put them into cold Water, 
beat them with Rofe Water in a Marble Mortar, 
or Wood Bowl, with a Wood Peftle, put to it 
four Ounces of Sugar, and the Yolks of four 
Eggs beat fine, work it in the Mortar or Bowl, 
till it becomes White and Frothy, make a nch 
Puff Pafte, which muft be made thus: Take 
half a Pound of Flour, a quarter of a Pound 
of Butter, rub a little of the Butter into the 
Flour, mix it ftiff with a little cold Water, 
then roll your Pafte ftraight out, ftrew over 2 
little Flour, and lay over in thin Bite, one Third 
of your Butter, throw a little more Flour over 
the Butter, do fo for three Times, then put 
your Pafte in your Tins, fill them and grate 
Bugar oyer them, and bake them in a gente 
Oven, . 


Zo make Bread Cheefe-cakes. - 


SLicE a Penny Loaf as thin as poffible, pour 
on it a Pint-of boiling Cream, let it ftand two 
Hours, then take eight Eggs, half a Pound of 
Butter, and a Nutmeg grated, beat them well 
together, put in half a Pound of Currants welk 
wathed, and dried before the Fire, apd a Spoon- 
ful of Brandy, or White Wine, and bake them 
in raifed Crufts, or Petty Pans. 7 

Q 


| 


. we 7 EE eee 


EnchisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 237 


To make Citron Cheefe-cakes, 


Born a Quart of Cream, beat the Yolks of 
four Eggs, mix them with your Cream when 
it is , then fet it on the Fire, let it boil ’till 
4t Curds, blanch fome Almonds, beat them 

with Orange Flower Water, put them into the 
Cream, with a few Naples Bifcuits, and green 
Citron fhred fine, fweeten it to your Tafte, and 
bake them in Tea Cups. 


To make Rice Cheefe-cakes. 


Bort four Qunces of Rice ’till tender, put 
it upon a Sieve to drain, put in four Eggs well 
beaten, half a Pound of Butter, half a Pint of 
Cream, fix Ounces of Sugar, a Nutmeg grated, 
and a Glafs of Ratafia. Water, or Brandy: Beat 
them all together, and bake them in raifed 
Crutts. 


To make Curd Cheefe-cakes. 


Take half a Pint of good Curds, beat them 
with four Eggs, three Spoonfuls of rich Cream, 
half a Nutmeg grated, one Spoonful of Ratafia, 
Rofe, or Orange Water, put to them a quarter 
of a Pound of Sugar, half a Pound of Currants 
well wafhed and dried before the Fire, mix 
them all well together, and bake it in Petty 
Pans, with a good Cruft under them. 


To 


238 The ExPERIENCED 


To make Orange Crumpets. 


TAKE a Pint of Cream, and a Pint of new 
Milk, warm it, and put in a little Runnet, whea 


it is broke, ftir it gently, lay it on a Cloth to | 


drain all Night, then take the Rinds of three 
‘Oranges boiled as for Preferving, in three 
different Waters, pound them very fine, and 
mix them with the Curd, and eight Eggs, ina 


Mortar, a little Nutmeg, Juice of Lemon, or . 


_ Orange, and Sugar to your Tafte, bake them 
in Tin Pans rubbed with Butter, when they are 
baked turn them out, and put Sack and Sugar 
over them.—Some put Slices of preffed Oranges 
among them. 


To make Cheefe-cakes. 

Ser a Quart of new Milk near the Fire, with 
2 Spoonful of Runnet, let the Milk be Blood 
warm, when jt is broke, drain the Curd through 
a coarfe Cloth, now and then break the Curd 
gently with your Fingers, rub into the Curd a 
quarter of a Pound of Butter, a quarter of a 
Pound of Sugar, a Nutmeg and two Naples 
Bifcuits grated, the Yolks of four Eggs, and 
the White of one Egg, one Ounce of Almonds 
well beat, with two Spoonfuls of Rofe Water, 
and two of Sack, clean fix Ounces of Currants 
very well, put them into your Curd, and mix 
them all well together. | 


To 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 239. 


To make Curd Puffs. 


TAKE two Quarts of Milk, put a little Run- 
net in it, when it 1s broke, put it in acourfe 
Cloth to drain, then rub the Curd througha 
Hair Sieve, with four Ounces of Butter beat, 
tem Ounces of Bread, half a Nutmeg, and a 
Lemon Peel grated, a Spoonful of Wine, and 
Sugar to your Tafte, rnb your Cups with But- 
ter, and bake them a little more than half an 
Hour. . 


To make Ege Cheefe: . . 


Beat fix Eggs well, put them into three 
Gills of new Milk, Sugar, Cinamon, and Le- 
mon Peel to your Tafte, fet it over the Fire, 
keep ftirring it, and fqueeze a Quarter of a 
Lemon in ‘it to turn it to Cheefe, let it run into 
what Shape you would have it, when it is cold, 
turn it out, pour over ita little Almond Cream, 
made of SweetAlmonds beat fine, with a little 
Cream, then put them into a Pint of Cream, 
let it boil, and ftrain it, put to it the Yolks of 
_ three Eggs well beat, fet it over the Firc, and 

make it like a Cuftard. 


To make a Loaf Royal. 


Take a French Roll, rafp it, cut off the Bot- 
tom Cruft, and lay it in a Pan, with the Bottom 
upwards, boil a Pint of Cream, put to it the 
Yolks of two Eggs, a little Cinamon, Orange 

. . Flower 


a 
eS _ - -_ 


2x0 The EXPERIENCED 


Flower Water, and Sugar to your Tafte, when 
it is cold, pour it upon the Roll, let it ftand in 
_ all Night to fteep, then make a very good Cuf- 
- tard of Cream, a little Sack, Orange Flower 
Water, and Sugar, put the Roll into a Diath, 
with fome good Pafte round the Edge, and 
pour your Cuftard upon it; you may lay Lumps 
of Marrow in the Cuftard, and flick long Ships 
of Citron, and Orange Peel in the Loaf, then 
fend it to the Oven, a little Time will bake it. 


To make Princes Loaf. 


Take {mall French Rolls, about the Size of 
an Egg, cut a {mall round Hole in the Top, 
take out all the Crumbs, All them with Al- 
mond Cuftard, lay over itCurrant Jelly, in thin 
Slices, beat the White of an Egg, and double 
refined Sugar to a Froth, and ice them all over 
with it; five is a pretty Difh. | 


To make a Druakeh Loaf. 


TAKE a French Roll hot out of the Oven, 
rafp it, and pour a Pint of Red Wine upon it, 
and cover it clofe up for half an Hour, boil 
one Ounce of Mackarony in Water, ‘till it is 
foft, and lay it upon a Sieve to drain, then put 
the Size of a Walnut of Butter into it, and as 
much thick Cream as it will take, then {crape 
in fix Ounces of Pumafant Cheefe, fhake it 
about in your Tofling Pan, with the Mackarony 
tall at be like a fine Cuftard, then pour it hot 

upon 


ee a Va en 2 ce eC es 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 241 


‘upon your Loaf; brown it with a Salamander, 
and ferve it up,. 


- Itis a pretty Dith for Supper, 
To make Snow Balls. 


Pang five large baking Apples, take out the 
Cores with a Scoope, fill the Holes with Orange 

or Quince Marmalade, then make a little good 
hot Pafte, and roll your Apples in it, and make 
your Cruft of an equal thicknefs, and put them. 
in a Tin Dripping Pan, bake them in a mode- 
rate Oven, when you take them out, make ice- 
ing for them the fame Way as for the Plumb 
Cake, and ice them all over with it abouts 
quarter of an Inch thick, fet them a good Dif- 
tance from the Fire ’till they are hardened, but 
take Care you don’t let them Brown, put one 
in the Middle of a China Difh, and the other 
five round it: Garnifh them with green Sprigs 
and {mall Flowers. " 

‘They are proper for a Corner, for either Dinner 
| +» or Supper. 


To make Fryed 'Toatt. 


Cur a Slice of Bread abour half an Inch 
thick, fteep it in rich Cream, with Sugar and 
Nutmeg to your Tafte, when it is quite foft, 
put a good Lump of Butter into a Toifing Pan, 
fry it a fine Brown, lay it on a Difh, and pour 

‘Wine Sauce over it, and ferve it up. 


Hh, CHAP, 


242 The ExpkBIENCED 


CHAP, XL. 
Obfervations upon Cakes. 


‘YX 7 HEN you make any Kind of Cakes, be 

| fure that you get your Things ready 
before you begin, then beat your Eggs well, 
and don’t leave them ‘till you have finithed the 
Cakes, or elfe thay will go back again, and 
‘your Cakes will not be light; if your Cakes 
are to have Butter in, take Care you beat. ir to 
a fine Craam before you put in your Sugar, for 
if you beat it twice the Time, it will not anfwer 
© well: As to Plumb-cake, Seed-cake, or Rice- 
cake, it is heft to bake them in Woad Gartha, 
for. if you.bake them in either Pot or Tin, they 
burn, the Out-fide of the Cakes, and confine 
them fo that the Heat cannot penetrate into. the 
Middle of your Cake, and prevents it from rif- 
ing’;"bake all Kinds of Cake in a good Oven, 
according to the Size of yeur Cake, and follow 
the Directions of your Receipt, for though 
Care hath been taken to Weigh and Meafure 
every Article belonging to every Kind of Cake, 


yet the Management and the Oven mutt be left , 


to the Maker’s Care. . 
To make @ Bride Cake. 


Take four Pounds of fine Flour well dried, 
four Pounds of frefh Butter, two Pounds of 
Loaf Sugar, pound and fift fine a quarter of an 
Ounce of Mace, the-fame of Nutmegs, to every 

| Pound 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 243 


‘Pound of Flour put eight Eggs, wafh four 
Pounds of Currants, pick them well and dry 
them before the Fire, blanch a Pound of Sweet 
Almonds (and cut them length-way very thin) ~ 

a Pound of Citron, one Pound of candied O- 
Tran ge, the fame of candied Lemon, half a Pint 
of ndy; firft work the Butter with your 
Hand to a Cream, then beat in your Sugar a 

uartet of an Hour, beat the Whites of your 
ges to a very ftrong Froth, mix them with 
your Sugar and Butter, beat your Yolks half 
an Howr at leaft, and mix thém with your 
Cake, then put in your Flour, Mace, and Nut+ 
meg, Keep beating it well nll your Oven 18 
ready, put in your Brandy, and béat your Cur 
rants and Almonds lightly in, tie.three Sheets | 
of Paper round the Bottom of your Hoep to 
keep it from running out, rub it well with 
Butter, put in your Cake, and lay your Sweet- 
meats in three Lays, with Cake betwixt every 
Lay, after it is rifen and coloured, cover it 
with Paper before your Oven is ftopped up; it 
will take three Hours baking. 


To make Almond Iceing for the Bride Cake. 


Beat the Whites .of three Eggs to a ftrong 
Froth, beat, a Pound of Jordan Almonds very 
fine with Rofe Water, mix. your Almonds with 
the Eggs lightly together, a Pound of common 
Loaf Sugar beat frie, and put in by Degrees, 
when your Cake is enough, take it out and 

' lay your Icéing on, and put it in to Brown. 


Hh 2 To 


24 The ExPpERIENCED | 


To make Sugar Iceing for the Bride Cake. 


Brat two Pounds of double refined Sugar, 
with two Ounces of fine Starch, fift it through 
a Gawze Sieve, then beat the Whites of five 
Eggs with a Knife upon a Pewter Difh half an 
Hour, beat in your Sugar a little at a Time, 
or it will make the Eggs fall, and will not be 
fo good a Colour, when you have put in all 

our Sugar, beat it half an Hour longer, then 
day it on your Almond Iceing, and fpread it 
even with a Knife; if it be put on as foon as 
the Cake comes out of the Oven, it will be 
hard by that Time the Cake 1s cold. 


>. To. make a good Plumb Cake. 


Take a Pound and a half of fine Flour well 
dried, a Pound and a half of Butter, three 
quarters of a Pound of Currants wafhed and 
well picked, flone half a Pound of Raifins, 
and flice them, eighteen Ounces of Sugar beat 
and fifted, fourteen Eggs, leave out the Whites 
of half of them, fhread the Peel of a large 
Lemon exceeding fine, three Ounces of can- 
' died Orange, the fame.,of Lemon, a 'Tea Spoon- 
ful of beaten Mace, half a Nutmeg grated, a 
Tea Cupful of Brandy, or White Wine, four 
Spoonfuls of Orange Flower Water; firft work 
the Butter with your Hand to a Cream, then 
“beat your Sugar well in, Whifk your Eggs for 
half an Hour, then mix them with your Sugar 
and Butter, and put in your Flour and Spices, 

when 


| 


EnctishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 44% 


‘when your Oven is ready, mix your Brandy, 


Fruit, and Sweetmeats ‘lightly in, then put it 
in your Hoop, and fend it to the Oven; it will 
require two Hours and a half baking.—It will 
take an Hour and a half beating. | 


Zo make a rich Seed Cake. 


Take a Pound of Flour well dried, a Pound 
of Butter, a Pound of Loaf Sugar beat and 
fifted, eight Eggs, two Ounces of Carriway 
Seeds, one Nutmeg grated, and its Weight of 
Cinnamon; firft beat ‘your Butter to a Cream, 
then put in your Sugar, beat the Whites of 
‘your Eggs half an Hour, mix them with your 
Sugar and Butter, then beat the Yolks half an 
Hour, put it to the Whites, beat 1n your Flour, 
Spices, and Seeds, a little before it goes to the 
Oven, put it in the Hoop and bake it two 
Hours in a quick Oven, and let it ftand two 


FHours.—It will take two Hours beating. 


To make a White Plumb Cake. 


To two Pounds of Flour well dried, take a 
Pound of Sugar beat and fifted, one Pound of 
Butter, 2 quarter of an Ounce of Mace, the 
fame of Nutmegs, fixteen Eggs, two Pounds 
and a half of Cutrants, picked and wathed, 
half a Pound of candied Lemon, the fame of 
Sweet Almonds, half a Pint of Sack or Brandy, 
three Spoonfuls of Orange Flower Water, beat 
your Butter to a Cream, put in your Sugar, 
beat the Whites of your Eggs half an Hour, 

: ° mx 


} 


246 The ExPRRIENGED 


mix them with your Sugar and Butter, then 
- beat your Yolks half an Hour, mix them with 
your Whites, it will take two Hours beating, 
_ put in your Flour a little before your Oven is 
ready, mix your Currants and all your othe 
Ingredients lightly in, juft when you put it in 
your Hoop.—Two Hours will bake it. 


To make little Plumb Cakes. 


TAKE a Pound of Flour, rub into it half a 


--——— —— a i, —__ eee, cee eee 


Pound of Butter, the fame of Sugar, a litle : 


beaten Mace, beat four Eggs very well, (leave 
out half the Whites) with three Spoonfuls of 


Yeafl, put to it a quarter of a Pint of warm — 
€ream, ftrain them tnto your Flour, and make © 


tt up light, fet it before the Fire to rife, juft 
before you fend it to che Oven, put in three 
quarters of a Pound of Currants. 


Fe make Orange Cakes. 


Take Seville Oranges that have very good 
Rinds, quarter them, and boil them in two or 
three Waters untill they are tender, and the 
Bitternefs is gone off, {cum them, then lay 


a a 


them on a clean Napkin to dry, take all the | 
Seeds and Skins out of the Pulp with a Knife, | 


fhread the Peels fine, put: them to the Pulp, 


weigh them, and put rather more than ther - 


Weight of fine Sugar into a Tofling Pan, with 

yuft as much Water as will diflolve it, boil it 

till 1t becomes a perfect Sugar, then by degrees 

put in your Orange Peels and Pulp, ftir then 
. we 


|] oe _ _, * nu a —— eee NN a a -~ 


Enciss HOUSE-KEEPER. 249 


‘well before you fet them on the Fire, boil it 
very gently ‘till ic looks clear and thick, then | 
put it into Flat-bottomed Glaffes, fet them ina 
Stove, and keep a conftant moderate Heat to 
them, when they are candied on the Top, turn 
them out upon Glaffes. 


N. B. You may make Lemon Cakes the fame 
: : Way. 


To make Rice Cake. 


Take fifteen Eggs, leave out one half of 
the Whites, beat them exceeding well near an 
Hour with a Whifk, then beat the Yolks half 
an Hour, put to your Yolks ten Ounces of 
Loaf Sugar fifted fine, beat it well in,. then 
put in half a Pound of Rice Flour, a little 
Orange Water or Brandy, the Rinds of two 
Lemons grated, then put in your Whites, beat 
them all well together for a quarter of an Hour, 
then put them in a Hoop, and fet them ina 
quick Oven for half an Hour. 


Lo make Ratafia Cakes. 


Take half a Pound of Sweet Almonds, the 
fame Quantity of Bitter, blanch, and beat 
them fine in Orange, Rofe, or Clear Water, to 
‘keep.them from Oiling, pound and fift a Pound 
,Of fine Sugar, mix it with your Almonds, Have 
teady very well beat the Whites of four Eggs, 
— Taix them lightly with the Almonds and Sugar, 

put it in a Preferving Pan, and fet it avera 
_ moderate 


248 The ExPpERIENCED — 


moderate Fire, keep ftirring it quick one Way | 


until it is pretty hot, when it is a little eool, 
’ yoll it in {mall Rolls and cut it in thin Cakes, 
_ dip your Hands in Flour and fhake them on tt, 
give them each a light Tap with your Finger, 
ut them on Sugar Papers, and fift a little fine 
Sugar over them juft as you are putting them 
into a flow Oven. : | | 


To make Ratafia Cakes a fecond Way. 


. ‘Take one Pound and a half of Sweet AI- 
’ monds; and half a Pound of Bitter Almonds, 
beat them as fine as poflible with the Whites 
of two Eggs, then beat the Whites of five Eggs 
to a ftrong Froth, fhake in lightly two Pounds 
and a half of fine Loaf Sugar beat and fifted 
very fine, drop them in little Drops the Size 
of a Nutmeg, on Cap Paper, and bake them 
in a flack Oven. - 


To make Shrewsbury Cakes. 


Take half a Pound of Butter, beat it toa 
Cream, then put in half a Pound of Flour, one 
Egg, fix Ounces of Loaf Sugar beat and fifted, 
half an Ounce of Carraway Seeds mixed into a 
Pafte, roll them thin, and cut them’ round 
with a {mall Glafs, or little Tins, prick them, 
and lay them on Sheets of Tin, and bake them 
3n.a flow Oven. J 


To 


ae ne 8 See a 


_ . ~ ati. 


a 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. . 249 


Zo make a Shrewsbury Cake a fecond WV ay. 


To a Pound of Butter, beat and fift a Pound 
of double refined Sugar, a little Mace, and 
four EES, beat them all together with your 
Hand ‘tll it is very light and looks curdling, 
‘then fhake in a Pound and a half of fine Flour, 
roll it thin; and cut it into little Cakes with a 
Tin, and bake them. 


To make Bath Cakes. 


Rus half a Pound of Butter into a Pound of 
Flour, and one Spoonful of good Barm, warm 
fome Cream, and make it into a light Patfte, 
fet it to the Fire to rife, when you make them 
up, take four Ounces of Carraway Comfits, 

work Part of them in, and ftrew the reft on 
the Top, make them into round Cakes the Size 
of a French Roll, bake them on Sheet Tins, 
and fend them in hot for Break faft. 


. . To make Queen Cakes. 


Take a Pound of Loaf Sugar, beat and fift 
_it, a Pound of Flour well dried, a Pound of 
Butter, eight Eggs, half a Pound of Currants 
wafhed and picked, grate a Nutmeg, the fame 
Quantity of Mace and Cinnamon, work your 
Butter to a Cream, then put in your Sugar, 
beat -the Whites: of your Eggs: near half an 

- Hour, mix them with your Sugar and Butter, 
_ then beat your Yolks near half an Hour, and put 
. Ii them 


250 The EXPERIENCED 

them to your Butter, beat them exceeding well 
together, then put in your'Flour, Spices, and the 
Currants, when it is ready for the Oven, bake 
them in Tins, arid duit a litle Supar dver ehem.. 


To make a common Seed'Cake. 


TAKE two Pounds ‘of Flour, ‘rab into at‘half 
a Pound of Powder Sugar, ohe Ounce of Gar- 
raway Seeds beaten, have'teady-a‘Pint of Milk, 
with half a Pound’‘of Butter melted in it, and 
two Spoonfuls of new Barm, make it up into 
a Pafte, fet it to the Fire to rife, Flour your Tin, 
and bake it in a quick Oven. 


To ‘make ‘Cream Cakes. 


Beat the Whites of nirie Eggs to a ftif. 
Froth, then ‘flir it pently with a Spoon, ‘for | 
fear the Froth fhoiild fall, and grate im the | 
Rinds of two Léfions, to every White of an 
Egg, fhake in foftly a Spoonful sf double’re- | 
fined Sugar fifted fine, lay a wet Sheet‘of Paper. 
ona Tin, and drop'the Froth ‘in ‘little Lumps 
on it with a Spoon, a {mall Diftance from ead | 
other, and fift ‘a'good Quantity 6f Sugar over 
them, fet them‘in an Oven after brown Breai, | 
make the Oven clofe up, and the ‘Froth ‘will 
rife, when, they ave ‘jfuft colouel they -are 
baked énough, take them -out and ‘pit - two 
Bottoms together, and ldy them on a Siéve, 
then fet them in a cool Oven to dry.—You may 
lay Rafpberry Jam, or ‘any. otherSort of Sweet | 

‘meat 


Encuisk HOUSE-KEBPER. 25: 


meat betwixt them before you clofe the Bot- 
goms together to dry.. 


To marke a Cake without Butter. 


Beart eight Eggs half an Hour, have ready 
pounded and fifted a Pound of Loaf Sugar, 
brake it ya, and beat it half an Hour more, 
Pret te ita quarter of a Pound of Sweet Al- 
monds beat fine, with Orange Flower Water, 
grate the Rind of a Lemon into the Almonds, 
and fqueeze in the Juice of the Lemon, mix 
them all together, and keep beating them ’tll 
the Oven is ready, and juft before you fet it in, 
put to it three quarters of a Pound of warm 

ry fine Flops; rub your Hoop with Butter, an 
Hour and a half will bake it. 


| Fo make Light Wigs. 


Ta three quartera of a Pound of fine Flour, 
put half a Pint of Milk made warm, mix it in 
two or three Spoonfuls af light Barm, cover it 
' up, fet ic half an Hour hy the Eire to rife, 
work in the Paite four Ounces of Sugar, and 
four Ounces of Butter, make it into Wigs with 
as little Flour as poflible, and a few Seeds, fet 

' them ia a quick Oven to bake. | | 


To make Mackroons. 


To one Pound of blanched and beaten Sweet 

_ Almonds, put one Pound of Sugar, and a little 
~ Bofe Waser, to keep them from Oiling, then 
Iiz2 eat 


LL - 7 BO 7 


as2 6 The ExpkErRIrENCED 


beat the Whites of feven Eggs to:a Froth, put 
them in, and beat them. well together, drop 
them on Wafer Paper, grate Sugar over them, 
and bake them. = wu 


To make Spantth Bifcuits. 


_ Brat the Yolks of eight Eggs.near half aa 
Hour, then beat in eight Spoonfuls of Sugar, 
‘.\beat the Whites to a ftrong Froth, then beat 
them very well with your Yolks and Sugar 
near half an Hour, put in four. Spoonfuls of 
Flour, and a little Lemon cut exceeding fine, 
and bake them on Papers. 


To make Spunge Bifcuits. 


Beat the Yolks of twelve Eggs half an 


_ Hour, put in a Pound and a half of Sugar beat 
and fifted, Whifk it well up ’till you fee it rife 
in Bubbles, beat the Whites toa ftrong Froth, 
Whifk them well with your Sugar and Yolks, 
beat in fourteen Ouinces of Flour, with the 
Rinds of two Lemons grated, bake them » 
Tin Moulds buttered, or Coffins; they require 
an hot Oven, the Mouth muft not be ftoppeé, 
when you put them into the Oven, duft them 
with Sugar; they will take half an Hou 
baking. | 


To make Lemon Bifcuits. 
Beat very..well the Yolks of ten Eggs, and 


the Whites of five, with four Spoonfuls o 
. Orange 


Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. a53- 


Oran ge Flower Water, ’till they Froth up, then 
‘put in a Pound of .Lodf Sugar. fifted, beat it 
,one Way for half an Hour or more, put in 
half a Pound of Flour, with the Rafpings of 
two Lemons, and the Pulp of a fmall one, 
‘Butter your Tin, and bake it in a quick Oven, 
‘buc don’t ftop up the Mouth at firft for fear ig 
fhould fcorch, duft it with Sugar before you 
put it in the Oven; it is foon baked. oo : 


Zo make Drop Bifcuits. 


Beart the Yolks of ten Eggs, andthe Whites 
of fix, with one Spoonful of Rofe Water, half 
an Hour, then put in ten Ounces of Loaf 
Sugar beat and fiftred, Whifk them well for 
half an Hour, then add one Ounce of Carra- 
‘way Seeds crufhed a little, and fix Ounces of 
fine Flour, Whifk in your Flour gently, drop 
them on Wafer Papers, and bake them in a 
moderate Oven. : 


Lo make common Bifcuits, 


- Beat eight Eggs half an Hour, put in a 
Pound of Sugar beat and fifted, with the Rind 
of a Lemon grated, Whifk it an Hour ‘till ie 
looks light, then put in a Pound of Flour, with 
a little Rofe Water, and bake them in Tins, or- 
On Papers, with Sugar over them. 


To 


254 The EXPERIRNGED 


Fo make Wafers. 


Takk two Spoonfuls of Cream, two of 
Sugar, the fame of Flour, and one Spoonfil 
of Orange Flower Water, beat them well 
gether for half an Hour, then make you 
Wafer, Tongs hot, and pour a little of you 
Batter in tg cover your lyons, beke them ona 


Stove Fire, as they are baked roll them round © 


a Stick like a Spiggard, as foon as they are 
cold, they will be very crifp; they are pro 
for Tea, or to put upon a Salver ta eat with 
Jellies. | 


Ta make Lemon Puffs. 


Bear a Pound of double refined Sugar, &ft 
it through. a, fine Sieve, put it in a Bowl, with 
the Juice of two Lemons, beat them well tar 
gether, then beat the White of an Egg to a 
very high Froth, put it in your Bowl, beat it 
half an Hour, then put in three Eggs, with 


two Rinds of Lemens grated, mix it well uP, | 


duft your Papers with Sugar, drap on the 
in {mali Drops, and bake them in 2 maderatt 
Oven, 


Te make Chocolate Puffs. 


Beat and fift half a Pound of double refined 
Sugar, {crape into it one Ounce of Chocolate 
very fine, mix them together, beat the White 
of an Egg toa very high Froth, then ftrew 

your 


| 
| 


.Enciuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 25¢ 


your Sugar and Chocolate, keep beating it ’till 
it is as {tiff as a Pafte, Sugar your Papers, and 
drop them on about the. Size of a Sixpence, 
and -buke them .in a-very flow Oven. | 


‘To muke Almond Puffs. - 


Bianou ‘two ‘Ounces of Sweet Almonds, 
Sede ‘them fine with Orange Flower W ter, beat 
the Whites df-three Eggs'to'a very high Froth, 
then ‘ftréw ina little ‘fifted Sugar, mix your Al- 
tnonds with ‘your Sugar ‘and Eggs, then add 
‘more Sugar ‘till it #8 as ‘ftiff as a Pafte, lay it 
in Cakes, and bake it on Paper, ‘in a cool 


Oven. 


‘To-meake French Bread. 


Take a‘quarter of a Peck of Flour, ‘one 
Ounce of Butter melted in Milk and Water, 
mix two-or three Spoonfuls df Barm with it, 
ftrain it through a Sieve, beat the White of an 
Egg, put it in -your Water swith a little Sale, 
work it up to a light Pafte, put it into a Bowl, 
then pullit -into Pieces, -let -it'ftand all Night, 
then work it well up again, cover it and lay it 
on a-Drefier ‘fer -half an‘Hour, then work dll 
the Pieces feparate, and mdke them in Rolls, 
and fét them. into-the' Oven. 


CHAP. 


296 ~ The ExpERL ENCED - 


| | CHAP... XI. : 
‘Litle SAVORY DISHES 
To. raggoo Pigs Feet and. Ears. 


B OIL your Feet and Ears, then fplit. your | 


Feet down the Middle, and cut the Ear 
in narrow Slices, dip them in Batter, and fry 
them a good Brown, put a little Beef Gravy m 
a Toffing Pan, with a Tea Spoonful of Lemon 
Pickle, a large one of Mufhroom Catchup, the 
fame of, Browning, and a little Salt, thicken 1t 
with a Lump of Butter rolled in Flour, and 
put in your Feet and Ears, give them a gentle 

oil, then lay your Feet in the Middle of your 

Difh, and. the Ears round them, ftrain your 

Gravy and pour it over: Garnifh with curled 

Parfley. | 7 
It is a pretty Corner Difh for Dinner. 


To make a Solomon-gundy. 


a a lS es ll A Aa eee ee 


. rt 


Taxe the white Part of a roafted Chicken, — 


the Yolks of. four boiled Eggs, and the Whites 


of the fame, two Pickled Herrings, and 2 _ 


Handful of Parfley, chop them feparately e1- 
céeding {mall, take the fame Quantity of lean 
boiled Ham {fcraped fine, turn a China Bafon 
Upfide down in the Middle of a Difh, makea 
quarter of a Pound of Butter in the Shape of a 
Pine Apple, and fet it on the Bafon Bottom, Jay 
round your Bafon a Ring of fhread Parr 

| en 


EnciishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 257 


then a Ring of Yolks of Eggs, then Whites, 
then Ham, then Chicken, then Herring, ’till 
you have covered your Bafon and ufed all the 
Ingredients, lay the Bones of the pickled Her- _ 
rings upon it with the Tails up to the Butter, 

and the Heads lie on the Edge of the Ditfh; 
lay a few Capers, and three or four pickled 
Oyfters round your Difh, and fend it up. | 


Solomon-gundy a fecond Way. 


Chop all the Ingredients as for the firft, mix 
them well tugether, and put in the Middle of 
your Difh a large Seville Orange, and your In- 
gredients round it, rub a little cold Butter 
through a Sieve, and it will curl, lay it in 
Lumps on the Meat; ftick a Sprig of curled 
Parfley on your Butter, and ferve it up. 


To roaft a Calf’s-Heart. 


Make a Force-meat with the Crumbs of half 
a Penny Loaf, a quarter of a Pound of Beef 
Suet fhread f{mall, or Butter, chop a little 
Parfley, Sweet Marjoram, and Lemon Peel, 
mix it up with a little-Nutmeg, Pepper, Salt 
and the Yolk of an Egg, fill your Heart, an 
lay over the Stuffing a Caul of Veal, or Writing 
Paper, to keep it in the Heart, lay it in a 
Dutch Oven, keép turning it and roaft it tho- 
roughly; when you difh it up, pour over it 
good melted Butter, and lay Slices of Lemon 
Tound it, and fend it to Table. — 


K k To 


258 The ExpERIENCED 


To drefs a Difb of Lambs Bits. 


Sxr1n the Stories and fplic them, lay them 
oh a dry Cloth with the Sweet Breads and 
Liver, and dredge them well with Flour, and 
fry them in boiling Lard, or Butter, a light 
Brown, then lay them on a Sreve to drain, fry 
a good Quantity of Parfley, lay your Bits on 
the Difh, and the Parfley in Lumps over it, 
‘pour melted Butter round them. 


To ‘fricafey Calf’s-Feet. 


Bort your Feet, take out the Bones, and 
cut the Meat in thin Slices, and put it into a 
Tofling Pan, with half a Pint. of good Gravy, 
boil them a little, and then put in a few Mo- 


rels, a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a little | 


Mufhroom Powder, or pickled Mufhrooms, 
the Yolks of four Eggs boiled hard, ard a 


little Salt, thicken with a little Butter rolled — 


in Flour, mix the Yolk of an Egg with a Tea 
Cupful of good Cream, and half a Nutmeg 
grated, put it in, and fhake it over the Fire, 
but-don’t let it boil, it will curdle the Milk: 
‘Garnifh with Lemon, and curled Parfley. 


Chickens i Savory Jelly. 


Roast two Chickens, then -boil a Gang of 
Calf’s-Feet to a ftrong Jelly, take out the Feet, 
{kim off the Fat, beat the Whites of three 
Eggs very well, chen mix them with half a 

Pint 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 259 


int of White Wine Vinegar, the Juice of 
three Lemons, a Blade or two of Mace, a few 
Pepper -Corns, and a little Salt, put them to 
‘your Jelly, when it has boiled five or fix Mi- 

utes, run it through a Jelly Bag feveral Times 
till it is very clear, then put a little in the 
*Bottom of a Bow! that will hold your Chickens, 
when they are cold, and the Jelly quite fet, 
lay them in wh their Breafts down, then fill 
up your Bowl quite full with the reft of your 
Jelly, which you muft take Care to keep 
from fetting, (fo that when you pour it into 
your Bow], it will not break,) let it ftand all 
Night, the next Day put your Bafon into warm 
Water, pretty near the Top; as foon as you 
find it loofe in the Bafon, lay your Difh over. 
it, and turn it out upon it.: 


Pigeons in Savory Jelly. 


Roast your Pigeons with the Head and Feet 
on, put a Sprig of Myrtle in their Bills, make 
a Jelly for: them the fame Way as for the 
Chickens, pour a little into a Bafon, when it 
is fet lay in your Pigeons with their Breatts. 
down, fill up your Bowl with your Jelly, and 
turn it out as before. | 


Small Birds in Savory Jelly. 


Take eight fmall Birds with their Heads 
and Feet on, put a good Lump of Butter in 
them, and few up their Vents, put them in a 
Jug, cover it clofe with a Cloth, fet them in a 

Kk2°- |: Kettle 


260 The ExPERIENGED 


Kettle of boiling Water ’till they are enough, | 


drain them, make your Jelly as before, puta 
little into a Bafon, when it is fet lay in three 
Birds with their Breafts down, cover them 
with the Jelly, when itis fet put in the ather 
five with the Heads in the Middle, fill up your 
Bowl with Jelly as before, and turn it out the 
fame Way. 


Smelts in Savory Jelly. 


Gut and wafh your Smelts, feafon them 
with Mace and §alt, lay them in a Pot, with 
Butter over them, tie them: down with a Paper, 
and bake them half an Hour, take them out, 
and when they are a little cool, lay them fe- 
perately on a Board to drain, when they are 
quite cold, lay them on a deep Plate in what 
Form you pleafe,.pour cold Jelly over them, 
and they will look like live Fifh.—Make your 
Jelly as before. 


Craw Fifh ig Savory Jelly. 


Bort your Craw Fifh, then put a little Jelly 
in a Bowl, made as for the Chickens, when it 
is fet, put in a few Craw Fifth, then cover them 
with Jelly, when it is cold, put in more in 
Lays ‘till your Bowl is full, let ic ftand all 
Night, and turn them out the fameasChickens. 


19 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 261 


‘To drefi Macaroni with Permafent Cheefe. 


Box four Ounces of Mbcaroni ’tilt it be 
quite tender, and lay it on a Sieve to drain, 
then put-it in a Toffing Pan, with about a 
Gill of good Cream, a Lump of Butter rolled 
in Flour, boil it five Minutes, pour it on a 
Plate, lay all over it Permafent Cheefe toafted ; 
fend it to the Table on a Water Plate, for ic 
foon goes cold. so 


To ftew Cheefe. with Light Wigs. 


Cur a Plate full of Cheefe, pour on it a 
Glafs of Red Wine, ftew it before the Fire, 
toaft a Light Wig, pour over it two or three 
spoonfuls of hot Red Wine, put it in the Mid- 
dle of your Dith, lay the Cheefe over it, and 
ferve it up. : : 


To ftew Cheefe. 


Curt your Cheefe very thin, lay it in a Toafter, 
fet it before the Fire, pour a Glafs of Ale over 
it, let it ftand ’till it is all like a light Cuftard, 
ten pour it on Toafts or Wigs, and fend itin — 

of, 


To ftew Chardoons. 


Take the Infide of your Chardoons, wafh 
them well, boil them in Salt and Water, put 
them into a Toffing Pan with a little Veal Gra- 


VY» 


262 The ExPERIENCED 


vy, a Tea Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a large 
one of Mufhroom Catchup, Pepper and Saltto 
your Tafte, thicken it with Flour and Butter, 
boil it a little and ferve it up in a Soup Plate. 


To fry Chardoons. 


Bort your Chardoons as you did for ftewing 
then dip them in Batter made of a Spoonful 


of Flour and Ale, fry them in a Pan of boiling 


Lard, pour melted Butter over them, and ferve 
them up. : 


To raggoo Celery. 


Takz off all the Gutfides of your Heads of 
Celery, cut them in Pieces, put them in a Tof- 
fing Pan, with a little Veal Gravy or Water, 
boil them ’till they are tender, put to it a Tea 
Spoonful of Lemon Pickle, a Meac Spoonful of 
White Wine, and a little Salt; thicken it with 
Flour and Butter, and ferve them up with Sippets. 


To fry Celery. 
Boit your Celery as for a Raggoo, then cut 
it and dip it in Batter, fry ica light Brown 10 


Hog’s-lard; put it on a Plate, and pour melted 
Butter upon it. : 


‘To flew Celery, 


Take, off the Outfide and the green Ends of 
your Heads of Celery, boil them in Water 


the 


a | 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 263 


they are very tender, put in a Slice of Lemon, a 


little beaten Mace thicken it with a good Lump 
of Butter and Flour, boil it a little, beat the 
Yolks of two Eggs, grate in half a Nutmeg, 
mix them with a Tea Cupful of good Cream, 

ut it to your Gravy, fhake it over the Fire ‘till 
it be of a fine thicknefs, but do not let it boil; 
ferve it up hot. 


To fcollop Potatoes. 


Bort your Potatoes, then beat them fine in 
a Bowl with good Cream, a Lump of Butter 
and Salt, put them into fcollop’d Shells, make 
them fmooth on the Top, fcore them with a 
Knife, lay thin Slices of Butter on the Top of 
them, put them in a Dutch Oven to brown be- 
fore the Fire.—Three Shells is enough for a 
Difh. 


To few Mufhrooms. 


Take large Buttons, wipe them with a wet 
Flannel, put them in a Stew Pan with a little 
Water, let them ftew a quarter of an Hour, 
then put in a little Salt, work a little Flour and 
Butter to make ic as thick. as Cream, let it boil 
five Minutes, when you Difh it up, put two 
large Spoonfuls of Cream mixt with the Yolk 
of an Egg, fhake it over the Fire about a 
Minute or two, but don’t let it boil for fear of 
Curdling; put Sippet round the Infide of the 
Rim of the Difh, but not toafted, and ferve 
it up. ; | 

t 


264 The ExpERIENCED 


[It is proper for a Side Dith for Supper, ora 


- . Corner for Dinner, 


Zo make Mufhroom Loaves. 


Taxs& {mall Buttons, wafh them as for Pick- : 


ling, put them in a Tofling Pan, with a licle 
white Bread Crumbs that have been boiled half 
an Hour in Water, then boil your Mufhrooms 
- in the Bread and Water five Minutes, thicken 
it with Flour and Butter, and two Spoonfuls of 
Cream, but no Yolks of Eggs, put in a lirtle 
Salt, then take five fmall French Rolls, make 
- Holes in the Tops of them about the fize of a 
Shilling, and {crape out all the Crumb, and put 
In your Mufhrooms; ftick a Bay Leaf on rhe 
Top of every Roll. . : 

Five is a handfome Difh for Dinner, and three 

for Supper. 


To raggoo Mufhrooms. 


Fake large Muthrooms, peel and take out 


the Infide, broil them on a Gridiron, when the 
Outlide is brown, put them into a Tolling Pan, 
with as much Water as will cover then, let 
them ftand ten Minutes, then put to thema 
Spoonful of White Wine, the fame of Brown- 


ing, a very little Allegar, thicken it with Flour 


and Butter, boil it-a little; lay Sippets round 
your Difh, and ferve ic up. 


To 


4 


 EncuishH HOUSE-KEEPER. 269 


To ftew Peas with Lettices. 


_ ‘SHELL your Peas, ‘boil them in-hard Water 
with Salt in it, drain them in a Sieve, then 
cut your Lettices in Slices, and. fry them in 
frefh Butter, put your Reas-and Lettices into a 
Toffing Pan with a little good Gravy, Pepper 
and ‘Salt, thicken it with Flour and -Butter, 
sputzin ailittlerfhread Mint, and-ferve jt:yp ina 
‘Soup Dith, — | 


To poach Eggs with Loafts. 


Put iyouriWater on in a flat ‘Bottom Pan, 
with a little:Salt, when it boils break your 
Eggs.carefully in, and let them.-boil two-Mi- 
nutes, then take them up with an Egg Spoon, ~ 
and lay.them on buttered Toafts. | 


7 , ’ To drefs. .Eggs and Spinage. 


‘Pick and:..wath -your Spinage -in feveral 
-Waters, fet a.Pan over the, Fire with a large 
Quantity of Water, throw .a Handful of Salt.in, 
when it: boils -put .your Spinage in, ,and let it 
boil two Minutes, take it up wish a Fifh Slice, 
and lay it on the Back pf .a-Hair Sieve, fqueeze 
‘the Water out, and put it in a Toffing Pan, 
with .a2 quarter of a Pound of :Butter, Keep 
‘turning .and chopping.it with.a Knife, ull it 
48 quite dry, then prefs it a little; betwixt two 
-Pewter. Plates, cut it the Shape of Sippets, and | 
‘fome.in :Diamonds,.poach. your .Eggs .as_be- 
- ’ L 1 _ fore, 
2 


oe 


266. The Ex PpERIENCED. 


fore, and lay them on your Spinage, and ferve 
them uphot. - 


N. B. You may boil Brocoli inftead of Spinage, 
and lay it in Bunches betwixt every Egg. 


" To drefs Eggs with Artichoke Bottoms. 


Bort your Artichoke Bottoms in hard Wa 
ter, if dry ones in foft Water, put in 2 good 
Lump of Butter in the Water, it will make 
them boil in half the Time, and they will be 
white and plump, when you take them up, 
put the Yolk of a hard Egg in the Middle of 
every Bottom, and pour good melted Butter 


‘upon them, and ferve them up; you may hy 


Afparagus, .or Brocoli betwixt every Bottom. 
To make a fricafey of Eggs. 


Boi. your Eggs pretty hard, cut them in 
round Slices, make a White Sauce the fame 


‘Way as for boiled Chickens, pour it over your 


Eggs, lay Sippets round them, and put a 
whole Yolk in the Middle of your Plate. 
It is proper for a Corner Dith at Supper, 


To fry Saufages. 


Cut them in fingle Links, and fry them in | 


frefh Butter, then take a Slice of Bread and 
fry it a good Brown in the Butter you fried 
the Saufages in, and lay it in the Bottom of 
your Difh, put the Saufages on the Toaft, 


in 
four 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 269 


four Parts, and lay poached Eggs betwixt 
them; pour a little good melted Butter round 
them, and ferve them up. : : 


To flew Cucumbers. 


PEEL off the Out-rind, flice the Cucumbers 
pretty thick, fry them in frefh Butter, and lay 
them. on a Sieve to drain, put them into a Tof- 
fang Pan with a large Glafs of Red Wine, the 
fame of ftrong Gravy, a Blade or two of Mace, 
make it pretty. thick with Flour and Butter; 
and when it boils up put in your Cucumbers, 
keep fhaking them, and let them boil five 
Minutes, be careful you don’t break them; 
pour them into a Difh, and ferve them up. 


To make an Amulet. 


Put a quarter of a Pound of Butter into a 
Frying Pan, break fix Eggs and beat them a 
little, ftrain them through a Hair Sieve, put 
them in when your Butter is hot, and ftrew in 
a little fhread Parfley and boiled Ham {fcraped 
fine, with Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, fry it 
brown on the Under-fide, lay it on your Dith 
but ‘don’t.turn it, hold a hot Salamander half 
a Minute over it to take off the raw look of 
the Eggs; ftick curled Parfley in it, and ferve 
It-up. | 


N. B. You may put in Clary and Chives or 
Onions if you like. 


Li2- | To 


268 © The ExpERIENCED 


Fo wiake Panada.: 


Grate the Crumb of a Penny Loaf and 
boil it in a Pinstof Water, with one Oniog 
and a few Pepper-corns, ’till quite thick and 
foft, then ptt in two Ounces of Butter, a lit 
tle Salt, and half a Pint of thick Cream, keep 
ftirring it ‘till it is like a fine Cuftard pour tt 
into 2 Soup Plate, and ferve it up. 


N. B, You may ufe Sugar and Currants inflead | 
of Onions arid Pepper-corns if you pleat. | 


To make a Rameéquin of Cheefe: 


. _ Take fome old Chefhire Cheefe, a Lump of 
Butter, and the Yolk of-a hard boiled Egg, and 
beat it very well together in a Marble Mortar, 
f{pread it on fome Slices of Bread toafted .and | 
buttered; hold a Salamander over them, and | 
fend them up, 


PART 


P AR T HE 
CHAP, XIt. 
Obfervations on Potting and Collaring. 


OVER your Meat well with Butter, and 
' . tie over it ftrong Paper, and ‘bake it well, 
- when it comes out of the Oven pick 
out all the Skins quite clean, and drain 
the Meat from the Gravy, or the Skins will 
hinder it from looking well, and the Gravy 
will foon turn it four, beat your Seafoning 
well before you putin your Meat, and put it 
in by Degrees, as you are beatings when you 
put it into your Pots, prefs it well, and let it 
be quite cold before you pour the clarified 
Butter over it.——In Collaring be careful you 
toll it up, and bind it clofe, boil ic ‘till it is 
thoroughly enough, when quite cold, put it 
into Pickle with the Binding on, next Day take 
off the Binding, when it will leave the Skin 
clear; make frefh Pickle often, and your Meat 
will keep good a long Time. . 


To pot Beef. 


Rus twelve Pounds of Beef with half a 
Pound of brown Sugar, and one Ounce of Salt 
Petre, let it lie twenty-four Hours, then wafh 


it 


270 | The -ExPERIENCED 


it clean, and dry it well with a Cloth, feafon it 
with a little beaten Mace, Pepper. and Salt. to 


your Tafte, cut it in five or fix Pieces, and. 


put it in an Earthen Pot, with a Pound of 
Butter in Lumps upon it, fet it in a_hot Oven, 
and let it ftand three Hours, then take it out, 
cut off the hard Outfides, and beat it in a Mor- 
tar, add to it a ‘little more Mace, Pepper, and 
Sals; oil a Pound of Butter in the Gravy and 
Fat that came from your Beef, and put it in as 
you fee it requires it, and bear it exceeding 
fine, then put it in your Pots, and prefs tt 


clofe down; pour clarified Butter over it, and 


keep it in a dry Place, 
To pot Beef to eat like Venifon. 


Pur ten Pounds of Beef into a deep Dith, 
pour over it a Pint of Red Wine, and let it lie 
in it for two Days, then feafon it with Mace, 
Pepper, and Salt, and put it into a Pot with the 
Wine it was fteeped in, add to it a large Glafs 
more of Wine, tie it down with Paper, and 
bake it three Hours in a quick Oven; when 
you take it ont, beat it in a Mortar or Wooden 
Bowl, clarify a Pound of Butter, and put it in 
as you fee it requires it, keep beating it ‘all it 
is a fine Pafte, then put jt into your Pats, lay 
a Paper over it, and fet on a Weight to prefs it 
down; the next Day pour clarified Butter over 
it, and keep it ina dry Place for Ufe. 


70 


Encuish HHOUSE-KEEPER. 271 


To pot Ox Cheek. 


_ ‘WHEN you ftew an Ox Cheek, take fome of 

the flefhy Part and feafon it well with Salt.and 
Pepper, and beat it very fine in a Mortar with 
a fiktle clear Fat fkimed off the Gravy, then 
‘put it clofe into your Potting Pots, and pour 
over it clarified Butter and keep it for Ufe. | 


To pot Venifon. 


Ir your Venifon be ftale, rub it with Vine- 
gar, and let it lie one Hour, then dry it clean 
with a Cloth, and rub it all over with Red 
‘Wine, ‘feafon it with beaten Mace, Pepper, and 
Salt, put it on an Earthen Difh, and pour over 
it half a Pint of Red Wine, and a Pound of 
Butter, and fet it in the Oven; if it be‘a Shoul- 
der, put a coarfe Pafte over it, and bake it all 
- Night in a brown Bread Oven; when it comes 
out, pick it clean from the Bones, and beat 
‘it in a Marble. Mortar, with the Fat from 
your Gravy; if you find it not feafoned enough, 

add more Seafoning and clarified Butter, and © 
keep beating it ’till it is a fine Pafte, then prefs 
it hard down into your Pots, and pour clarified 
Butter over it, and keep it in a dry Place. - 


To pot Veal, 


Cut a Fillet of Veal in three or four Pieces, 
feafon it with Pepper, Salt, and a little Mace, 
‘put it into Pots with half a Pound of Butter, 

| tic 


272 | ‘The ExPERIENCED 


tie a Paper over it, and fet it in a hot Oven, 
and bake it three Hours, when you take it 
out, cut off all the Outfides, then put the Veal 
in a -Marhble Mortar, and ‘beat :it -wath the Fat 
‘from -your Gravy, ‘then Oil a Pound .of :freh 
Butver, and put it in, a little at a Time, and 
keep beating at ‘til you fee it as like adine 
Pafte, then put it clafe.down into your Potting 
Pots, ‘put a Paper upan it, and-fet on.a Weight 
to prefs it hard; when your Veal is cold and 
ftiff, pour over-it clarified Butter the thicknels 
of a Crown-piece, and tie it down. 


| To pot Marble Veal. 


Bort a dried Tongue, fkin it, :and.cut it as 
thin :as poflible, and beat it exceeding well, | 
withinear a Pound of Butter, anda fittle:beaten 
Mace, ‘till it is like -a Pafte, ;have ready Veal 
ftewed.and beat the fame Way as‘before, then 
put ‘fome Veal :imto ‘your Potting Pots, then 
fome.‘Tongue :in :Lumps over ithe Veal; ‘fill | 
your Pot clofe up with Vedl, and .prefs:it very _ 
hard.down, and pour. ¢larifred Butter over tt, 
and keep'it in.adry Place. 


' NB. Don’t lay on your Tongue:in any-Form, 
but in Lumps, :and it «will. cut :lke>Marbk, 
wher you fend it to the Table, cut it out i 
Slices, and garnith with curled Parfley. 


to 


EncLish HOUSE-KEEHPER. 242 


To pot ‘Tongues. | 


Take a Néat’s Tongue, and rub it with an 
Ounce of Salt Petre, and four Ounces of brown 
Sugar, and let it le two Days, then boil i¢ 
cull it 18 quite tender, and take off the Skin 
and Side-bits, then cut thé Tongtte in very 
thin Slices, and beat it in a Marble Mortar, 
with one Pound of clarified Buster, Mace, Pep- 
per, and Salt to your Tafte, beat it exceeding 
fine, then put it clofe down into {mall Potting 
Pots, and pour clarified Butter over them. 


To pot a Hare. 


_ Hane up your Hare four or five Days with 
the Skin on, then‘cafe it, and cut it up as for 
eating, put it in a Pot, and feafon it with Mace, 
Pepper, and Salt, put.a Pound of Butter upon 
it, tie it down, and bake it in a Bread Oven, 
when rt comes out, pick it clean from the 
Bones, and pound it very fine in a Mortar, 
with the Fat from your Gravy, then put it 
clofe down into your Pots, and’ pour clarified 
Butter over it, and keep it in a dry Place. 


To pot Ham with Chicken. 


. "Faxe as much Lean‘of a boiled Ham as you 
pleafe, and half the Quantity of Fat, cut it as 
thin as pofible, beat it very fine in 4 Mortar, 
with a little oiled Butter, beaten Mace, Pepper, 
and Salt, put Part of it into'a China Pot, then 

a Mm beat 


274 The ExPERIENCED 


beat the white Part of .a Fowl with a very li- 
tle feafoning, it is to qualify the Ham; put a 
lay of Chicken, then one of Ham, then Chicken 
‘at the Top, pres hard down, and when it is 
cold, pour clarified Butter over 1t; when you 
fend it to the Table cut out a thin Slice in 
the form of half a Diamond, and lay it round 
the Edge of your Pot. 


- To epot Woodcocks. 


- Pruck fix Woodcocks, draw out the Train, 
fkewer their Bulls through their. Thighs, and 
put the Legs through each other, and their 
Feet upon their Breafts,. feafon them with three 
or four Blades of Mace, and a little Pepper and 
Salt, then put them into a deep: Pot, with a 
Pound of Butter over them, tig a .ftrong Paper 
over them, and bake them in d moderate Oven; 
_ when they are enough, lay them on a: Difh to 
. drain the Gravy from them, then put them 
into Potting Pots, and take all the clear Butter 
from your Gravy, and put it upon them, and 
fill up your Pots with clarified Butter, aad 
keep them in a dry Place. : 


To pot Moor Game. 


Pick and draw your Moor Game, wipe them 
clean with a Cloth, and feafun them pretty 
well with Mace, Pepper; and Salt, put one 
Leg through the other, roaft them ’till they are 
quite enough, and a good brown; when they 
are cold put them into Potting Pots, and pour 

over 


o 


EncLisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 2372 
over them clarified Butter, and keep them in a 


. 


dry Place.. 


N. B. Obferve to leave their Heads uncovered 
oo with Butter. 


To pot Pigeons. 


Pick your Pigeons, cut off the Pinions, wafh 
them clean, and put them into-a Sieve to drain, 


then dry them with a Cloth, and feafon them 


with Pepper and Salt, roll a Lump of Butter in 
chopped Parfley, and put it into the Pigeons, 
few up the Vent, then put-them into a Pot with 
Butter over them, .tie them down, . and fet theni 
in a.moderate. Oven; when ‘they come out, 
puc them into Potting Pots, and cover them 

well with clarified Butter. | 


-. To pot all Kinds of mall Birds. 


. Prex and. gut your Birds, dry them well. 


with a Cloth, feafon them with Mace, Pepper, 
and Salt, then put them into a Pot with Butter, 
he your Pot down with Paper, and bake them 
in 2 moderate Oven: when they come out, 
drain the Gravy from them, and put them into 
Potting Pots, and cover them with clarified 
Butter... oo : 


To make a cold Porcupine of Beef, 


Saur a Flank of Beef the fame Way as you 
did the .Round.of Beef, and.turn it every Day 
a Mm 2 | for 


296 The ExPERI@NCED 


for a Fortnight at leaft, then lay it flat upons 
Table, beat it an Hour, or ’till it is fofe afl 
over, then rub ic over with the Yolks of three 
Eggs, frew over ita quarter of an Ounce of 
beaten Mace, the fame of Nutmeg, Peppet, 


and ‘Sale to your Tafte, the Crumb of two 


Penny Loafs, and two: large Handfuls of 
Parfley fhread {mall, then cover it with thia 


Slices of fat Bacon, and roll your Beef up very 
_ tight, and bind it well with Pack-thread, hail 


jt foug Hours, when it is cold, Lard it all 
over, one Row with the Lean of a Ham, 2 


fecond with Cucumbers, a third with fat Ba~‘ 


¢on, cut them in Pieres ahout.the thicknefs of 
2 Pipe, fhank and Lard it fo that it may ap 


Red, Green, and White; fend it to the Table - 


with Pickles and {craped Horfe-raddith round 
it, keep it in Salt and Water, and a listle Viner 
gar.—You may keep it four of five Days withe 
out Pickle. - ; | 


fo callar a Breaft of Veal.. 


Bore your Veal, and heat it-a licle, ther 
rub it ever with the Yolk of an Egg, finew all 
aver it a little beaten Mace, Nutmeg, Pepper, 
and Salt, a large Handful of Parfley chopped 
{mall, with a few Sprigs of Sweet Mayjoram, 
a little Lemon Peel cut exceeding fine, one 
Anchovy wafhed, baned, and chopped very 
{mall, and mixed with a few Breas Crumbs, 
then roll it up yery tight, bind it hard witha 
Fillet, and wrap it in a clean Cloth, then boil 
it twa Hours and a half in foft Water, whee 

} 


| 


SS 


Enciiscx HOUSE-KEEPER. 273 


tt is enough, hang it up by one End, and 
make a Pickle for it; to one Pint of Sale and 
Water, put half a Pint of Vinegar, when you 
lend it to the Table, cut a Slice off one End: 
Sarnifh with Pickles and Pariley. , 


To collar-.a Calf’s-Head. . 


Take a Calf’s-Head with the Skin on, and 
@refs off the Hair, then rip it down the Face, 
and take out all. the Bones carefully from the 
Meat, and fleep it in warm blue Milk, ‘till it 
is White, then fay it flat, and rub ic with the 
White. of an Egg, and. ftrew over it 2 Tea. 
Spoonful of White Pepper, two or three Blades 
of beaten Mace, and ane Nutmeg, ‘a Spoonful 
of Salt, two Score of Oyfters chop fmall, 
half a Pound of Beef Marrow, and a large 
Handful of: Parfley, lay them all over the In-— 
fide of the Head, cut off the Ears, and lay 
them in the thin Part of the Head, then roll it 
ap tight, bind it up with a Fillet, and wrap it 
up in a clean Cloth, boil it ewo Hours, and 
‘when it is almoft cold, bind it up with a frefh 
Fillet, and put it in a Pickle made as above, 
and keep it for Ufe, 


To cellar a Breaft of Mutton. 


Bowne your Mutton, and rub it over with the 
Yolk of an Egg, then grate over it a little Le~ 
mon Peel, and a Nutmeg, with a little Pepper — 
and Sale, then chop fmall one Tea Cupful of 
Capers, two Anchovies, fhread fine a Handful 

: : . Q 


278. ° | The -ExpERIENCED 


of Parfley, a few Sweet Herbs, mix them witk 
the Crumb of a Penny. Loaf, and ftrew it over 
your Mutton, and roll it up tight, boil it cve 
Hours, then:take it-up, and put itin a Pickle 
made as for the.Calf’s Head, . 


. To. collar .a- Pig. 


Krixixt your Pig, drefs off the Hair, and driw 
out the Entrails, and wafh it clean, take 2 
fharp Knife, rip it open, and take-out all the 
Bones, .then-rub it all over with Pepper aad 
Salt beaten fine, a few Sage Leaves, and Sweet 
Herbe chopped {mall, then roll up your Pig 
_ tight, and bind it with a Fillet, then fill your 
Bailer with foft. Water, one Pint-of Vinegar, 
and a Handful of Salt; eight or ten Cloves, a 
Blade or two of Mace, a few Peppercorns, and 
a Bunch of Sweet Herbs; when it boils put.in 
your Pig, and boil it ’till it is tender, then take 
it up, and when it is almoft cold, bind it.over 
again, and put it into an Earthen Pot, and pout 
the Liquor your Pig avas boiled in upan J5 
keep it covered, and it is fit for Ufe, 


To collar a Swine’s Face. | 


‘Coop the Face in many Places, and wafhit | 
in feveral Waters, then boil ic till the Meat | 
will ‘leave the’ Bones, take out the Bones, aut | 
open the Ears, and.take out the Ear Roots, cut 
the Meat in Pieces, and feafon it with Pepper 
and Salt, while it is hot put it into an Earthea 


Pot, but put the Ears round the Outfide of i 
° Cal, 


Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. 279 


Meat, put a Board on that will go in the Infide 
of the Pot, and fet a heavy Weight upon it, 


and let it ftand all Night, the next Day turn it © 


out, cut it round-ways and it will look clofe 
and bright. 


To make Mock Brawn. 


-"Take.a Piece of the Belly Part,.and the Head 
of a young Porket, rub it with Salt Petre, and 
let it lie three Days, then wafh it clean, fplic 
the Head and boil'ir, then take out the bones, 
and cut it in Pieces, chen take four Ox Feet 
boiled. tender and cut.in thin Pieces, lay it in 
your Belly:Piece with the Head cut {mall, then 
roll it up tight with Sheet Tin, that a Trencher 
will go mat each End, boil it four or five 
Hours,,-when it comes out, fet.it upon one 
End and prefs the Trencher down witha large 
Lead -Weight, let it ftand all Night, and in 
the Morning take it out of your Tin, and bind 
it with a white Fillet, put it into cold Salt and 
Water, and it will be fit for Ufe, 


N. B. You muft make frefh Salt and Water 


every four Days, and it will keep a long 
Time. . 


To collar Flat Ribs of Beef. 


Bone your Beef, lay’ it flat upon a Table, 


and beat it half an Hour with a wooden Mal- 
let ‘till it is quite foft, then rub it with fix 
Ounces of brown Sugar, four Ounces of com- 

mon 


280 The ExrpExI ENCED 


thon Salt, and one Ounce of Salt Petre beat 
fine, let it lie then for ten Days, and tum it 
once. every Day, take it out, then put it in 
warm Water for eight or tem Hours, then hy 
it flat upon a Table, with the outward Ska 
down, and cut it in Rows, and a-crofs abou 
the Breadth of your Finger, but take Care you 
don’t cut the outfide Skin, then fill one Nick 
with chopped Patiley, thé fecond with fa 
Pork, the third with Crumbs of Bread, Mace, 
Nutmeg, Pepper, and Salt, then Parfley, and 
fo on till you have filled all ydur Nicks, then 
‘roll it up tight, and bind it round with coark 
broad Tape, wrap it in a Cloth and boil it fou 
_or five Hours, then take it up, and hang tt up 
by one end of the String to keep it round, fave 
the Liquor it was boiled in, the next Day {kim 
it, and add to it half the Quantity of Allegar 
as you have Laquor, and a little Mace, Log 
Pepper, and Salt, then put in your Beef 
keep it for Ufe. 


N. B. When you fend it to the Table ent 3 
little off both Ends, and it will be in Diamonds 
of different Colours, and look very- pretty, ft 
it upon a Difh as you do Brawn; if you make 
od freth Pickle every Week it will keep a loag 

ime. | 


Zo collar Beef. 
-SaLt your Beef and beat it as before, then | 


rub it over with the Yolks of Eggs, ftrew over | 
it twe large Handfuls of Parfley thread fel | 


- Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER., . 281 


thalf’' an Qunce, of. Mace, Black Pepper and 
Salt to your Tafte, -roll ic up.tight, and bind it 
about -with a coarfe, broad Tape, and boil it tu 
it is tender; ‘make a Pickle for it’the fame 
Way as before.: . 
" - To force a Round of Beef. 
| TaKE a good round of Beef, and rub it over 
a@ quarter of an Hour with two Ounces of Salt 
‘Petre, the fame.of. Bay Salt, half a Pound of 
brown Sugar, and a Pound of common Salt, 
Mlet'it die in it-for ten or twelve Days, turn it 
once every Day in the Brine, .then wath it well 
and imake holes in it with.a Penknife about an 
JInch one from another, and-fill one hole with 
‘fhread Parfley, a:fecond with fat Pork. ¢yt in 
{mall Pieces, and a third with Bread Crumbs,. 
“Beef Marrow, a little Mace, Nutmeg, . Pepper, 
_and Salt, mixed together, then Parfley, and fo 
@n: rid: you: have filled-all the holes, then wrap 
your Beef in.a Cloth, and bind it with a Filler, 
and boil it four Hours; when it is cold,. bind 
it over again, and cut a thin Slice off before 
you fend it to the Table: Garnifh with Parfley 
and Red Cabbage. ot 
On 5 
Lo foufe a Turkey. 


~Krgx your/Turkey and let it hang four or 
five Days in the Feathers, then pick it and flit 
dt:up'the Back, and take out the Entrails, bone 
it, and bind with a Piece of Matting like Stur- 
geon, or Newcaftle Salmon, fet over the Fire a 
.. Nn clean — 


982. The ExpERIENCED 


clean Sauce Pan, with a Pint of ftrong Allegar, 

2 Score of Cloves, three or four Blades of Mate, 

a Nutmeg fliced, a few Pepper Corns, and 

Handful of Salt, when it boils put in the Tiz- 
_key, and boil ic one Hour, then take it up, 
and when cold, put it into an Earthen Po, 
and pour the Liquor over it, and keep it for 
Ufe; when you fend it to Table, lay Sprigs ot 
Fennel yver it. —— 


To foufe Pigs Feet and Ears. 


CLEan your Pigs Feet and Ears, and boil 
them ’till they are tender, then fplit the Feet, 
and put them into Salt and Water with. the 
Ears; when you ufe them, dry them well with 
a Cloth, and dip them in Batter made of Flour 
and Eggs, fry them a good Brown, and fend © 
them up with good melted Butter. 


| _N, B. You may eat them cold; make frefh — 
Pickle every two Days, and they will keep 
fome Time. | 


To foufe Tripe. 


WHEN your Tripe is boiled, put it into Salt 
and Water, change the Salt and Water every 
Day 'till you ufe it, dip it in Batter, and fry it 
as the Pigs Feet and Ears, or boil it in frefh 
Salt and Water, with an Onion fliced, and a 
few Sprigs of Parfley, and fend melted Butter 
for Sauce, 


To | 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. . 283 


To hang a Surloin of Beef to roaft. 


TakeE the Suet out of a Surloin, and rub it 
half an Hour with one Ounce of Salt Petre, 
four Ounces of common Salt, and half a 
Pound of brown Sugar, hang it up ten or 
twelve Days, then wath it, and roaft it; you 
may eat it either hot or cold. 


To falt Hams. 


As foon as yourHams are cut out, rub them 
very well with one Ounce of Salt Petre, half 
am Ounce of Salt Prunella pounded, and one 
Pound of common Salt to every Ham, lay 
them in Lea: or Earthen Salt Pans for ten Days, 
turn them once in the Time, then rub them 
well with more common Salt, let them lie ten 
Days longer, and turn them every Day, then. 
take them out, and fcrape them exceeding | 
clean, and dry them well with a clean Cloth, 
and rub it flightly over with a little Sale, and 
hang them up to dry. 


To f/moke Hams. 


WueEn you take your Hams out of the 
Pickle, and have rubbed them dry with a 
coarfe Cloth, hang them in a Chimney, and 
make a Fire of Oak Shavings, and lay over it 
Horfe Litter, and one Pound of Juniper Ber- 
ries, keep the Fire {mothered down for two or 
three Days, then hang them up to dry. 


Nn 2 To 


284 The ExPERIENCED: 


, To falt Chops. 


‘THRow over your Chops a Handful of Salt, 
and lay them Skin-fide down a-flant on a 
Board, to let all the Blood run from them, the 
next Day pound to every Pam of Chops one 
Ounce of Bay Salt; the fame of Salt Petre, two 
Ounces of brown Sugar, and half a Pound of 
common Salt, mix them together, and rub them 
exceeding well, .let them lie ten Days in your 
Salting Ciftern, then rub them with common 


Salt, and let them. lie a Week longer, and rub — 


. them clean, and hang them to dry ina dry 
Place, : ot 


To falt Bacon. 


WHEN your Pig is cut down, cut off the 
Hams and Head, if it be a large one, cut out 
a Chine, but leave in the Spare Ribs, it keeps 
_ the Bacon. from rufting, and the Gravy in, 
falt it with common Salt, and a little Sale Petre, 
(but neither Bay Salt nor Sugar,) let it lie ten. 
Days on a Table, that will let all the Brine run 
from it, then falt’jt again ten or twelve Days, 
turning it every Day after the fecond Salting, 
then fcrape it very clean, rub a little dry Salt 
On it, and hang it up. oo 


N.B. Take Care to fcrape the white Froth off 


very clean that is on it, which is caufed by the | 


Salt to work out ‘of your Pork, and rub ona 


. «@ 


the 


little dry Salt, it- keeps the Bacon from ruling ; i 


| 


EEE 


EncLisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 28. 


the dry Salt will candy and fhine like Diamonds 
on your Bacon. .* ~ a ~ 


To falé Tongues. 


- Scrapk your Tongues, and dry them cleati- 
With a Cloth, and fale them well with com- 
mon Salt, and half an Ounce of Salt Petre to 
every Tongue, jay them in a deep Pot, and 
turn them every Day for a Week or ten Days; 
fale them again, and let them lie a Week 
longer, take them up, dry them with a Cloth, 
Flour them and hang them up. a 


| To falta Leg of Mutton. 


Pounp one Ounce of Bay Salt, and half an 
Ounce of Salt Petre, and rub it all over your 
Leg of Mutton, and let it lie all Night; the 
next Day fale it well with common Salt, and let 
it lie.a Week or ten Days, then hang it up 
todry. : oo, | 


. To pickle Pork. 


Curt your Pork in fuch Pieces as will be moft 
convenient, to lie in your powdering Tub, rub 
every Piece all over with Salt Petre, then take 
one Part Bay Salt, and, two Parts.common Salt, 
and rub every Piece well, lay the Pieces as 
clofe as poflible'in your Tub, andthrow a little 
Salt over, ee oO 


CHAP, 


286 .. The EXPERIENCED 


CHAP. XIV. 
Objervations on Poffets, Gruel, &c. 


‘making Poffets, always mix a littke of the 

hot Cream or Milk with your Wine, it will 
keep the Wine from curdling the reft, and take 
the Cream off the Fire before you mix altage- 
ther.-Obferve in making Gruels, that you boil 
them in well-tined Sauce Pans, for nothing 
will fetch the Verdigreafe out of Copper fooner 


than Acids or Wines, which are the chief In-. 


gredients in Gruels, Sagos, and Wheys, don't 
et your Gruel or Sago {kim over, for it boils 
into them, and makes them a muddy Colour. 


To make a Sack Poffet. 


Grate two Naples Bifkets into a Pint of 
thin Cream, put in a Stick of Cinnamon, and 
fet it over a flow Fire, boil it ‘till it is of a pro- 
per thicknefs, then add half a Pint of Sack, a 

lice of the end of a Lemon, with Sugar to 


‘your Tafte, ftir ic gently over the Fire, but 


don’t let it boil left it Curdle, ferve it up with 
dry Toatt. 


To make a Brandy Poffet. 


Boi. a Quart of Cream over a flow Fire, with 

a Stick of Cinnamon in it, take it off to cool, 
beat the Yolks of fix Eggs very well, and mix 
them with the Cream, add Nutmeg and Sugar 
to 


2 ell 


EncitishH _HOUSE-KEEPER. 28% 


to your Tafte, fet it over a flow Fire and fir it 
one way, when it is like a fine thin Cuftard, 
take it off, and pour it into your Tureen or 
Bowl, with a Glafs of Brandy, ftir it gently 
together, and ferve it up with Tea Wafers 
round it. 


To make a Lemon Poffet, 


Grate the Crumb of a Penny Loaf very fine, 
and put them into rather more than a Pint of 
Water, with half a Lemon Peel grated, or Su- 
gar rubbed upon it to take out the Effence, 

il them: together ’till it look thick and clear, 
then beat it very well ;—to the Juice of half a 
Lemon, put a pint of Mountain Wine, three 
Ounces of Jordan Almonds, and one Ounce of 
' bitter, beat fine with a little Orange Flower, or 
French Brandy, and Sugar to your Tafte, mix 
it well and put it in your Poffet, ferve it up in 
a Tureen or Bowl. . 


N. B. An Orange Poffet is made the fame Way. | 


‘To make an Almond Poffet. 


Grate the Crumbs of a Penny Loaf very 
fine, pour a Pint of boiling Miik upon them, 
let them ftand two or three Hours, then bea 
it exceeding well, add to it a Quart of good 
Cream, four Ounces of Almonds blanched, and 
beat as fine as poffible, with Rofe-Water, mix 
them all well together, and fet them over a 


very 


e88 .' The. ExperrENCED =..> 


very flow Fire and boil chem a.Quarter of an 
Hour, then fet:it to cool,.and beat the Yolks of 
four Eggs, and mix them witch your Cream 
when. itis cold, fweéten it to: your Tafte ; then 
ftir iti over a :flow Fire, “till ‘it: grows pretty 
thick, but don’t let it boil, it will curdle,. rhen 
pour it into a China Bowl; when you fend ic 
to Table. put in three Macroons.to-fwim on the 
op. | ane : 
Chins af Vaivdt 1s proper for Top at Supper. 


. i rr es : . 
- tt. To-make“a’ Wine Poffec. 


. ‘Fske a Quart of new Milk,.and the:Cramb 
of:a:Penny Loaf, and: boil them "ull they: are 
foft;!when: you take -it off.the Fire, grate in 
_half..a Nutmeg, and Sugar'to your Tafte, then 

putit ‘into.a China Bowl, and ‘put in a Pint of 
Lifbon Wine carefully a lictke.at a Time,..or.1 
smill‘imake the Curd hard.and tough; ferve # 
up with Toaft and Butter updn a Plate. 


‘2h. ! Yo-make an Ale Poffec: 


.Put a little white Bread in a Pint of good 
Milk, fet .it ‘over: rhe Fire, then warm a little 
more than a Pint of good ftrong Ale, with 
Wutmeg and Sugar to your Tafte, them put it in 
a Bowl, when your Milk. boils pour it upos 

ur Ale, let it ftand a few Minutes to-clear, 
and the Curd will rife to the Top:and ferve 
it up. 


_ Te 


-EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 289 


To mull Wine. 


Grater half a Nutmeg into a Pint of Wine 
and fweeten it to your Tafte with Loaf Sugar, 
fet it over the Fire, and when it boils take it 
off to cool, beat the Yolks of four Fags ex- 
ceeding well, add to them a little cold Wine, 
then mix them carefully with your hot Wine 
a little ata Time, then pour it backwards and 
forwards feveral Times till it looks fine and 
bright; then fet it on the Fire and heat it a 
little at a Time for feveral Times till it is quite 
hot and pretty thick, and pour it backwards © 
and forwards feveral Times ; then fend it in 
Chocolate Cups and ferve it up with dry Toaft, 
cut in long narrow Pieces. 


To mull Ale. 


TaKeE a Pint of good ftrong Ale, put it into 
a Sauce Pan, with three or four Cloves, Nut- 
meg and Sugar to your Tafte, fet it over the 
Fite, when it boils take it off to cool, beat the 
Yolks of four Eggs very well, and mix them — 
with a little cold Ale, then put it to your warm 
Ale, and pour it in and out of your Pan for 
feveralh Times, then fet it over a flow Fire and 
-heat it a little, then take it off again and heat 
it two or three Times ’till it is quite hot, then 
ferve it up with dry Toaft. | 


Oo To 


290 The ExPERIENCED 


"To make. milled Wine. 


_ Bornia Quart of new Milk five Minutes, with 
a Stick of Cinnamon, Nutmeg, and Sugar to 
your Tafte, then take it off the Fire and ler it 
{tand to cool, beat the Yolks of fix Eggs very 
‘well, and mix them with a little cold Cream, 
then mix them with your Milk, and pour it 
‘backwards. and, forwards the fame as you do 
mulled Ale, and fend it to the Table witha 
Plate of Bifkets. 


To make Beef Tea. 


Take a Pound of lean Beef, cut it in very 
thin Slices, put it into a Jar, and pour a Quart — 
of boiling Water upon it, cover it very clofe 
to keep in the Steam, let it ftand by the Fire, it 
is very good for a weak Conftitution, it muft 
be drank when it is new Milk warm. 


Lo make Chicken Broth. 


_Sxrwn afmall Chicken, and fplit it in two, and 

boil one Half in three half Pints of Water, 
with a Blade or two of Mace, a {mall Cruft of 
white Bread, boil it over a flow Fire ‘till it is 
reduced to half the Quantity, pour it intoa 
Baton, and take off the Fat, and fend it up 
with a dry Toatt. | 


To 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 291 


Zo make Chicken Water. 


Sxrw half a Fowl, break the Bones, and cut 
the Flefh as thin ‘as poffible, then put it into a 
Jar, and pour a Pint of boiling Water upon 
it, cover it clofe up, and fét it by the Fire for 
three Hours, and it will be ready to drink. 


To make Mutton Broth. 


Take the Scrag-end of a Neck of Mutton, 
chop it into {mall Pieces, put it into a Sauce 
Pan, and fill it with Water, fet it over the Fire, 
and when the Scum begins to rife,’ take it clean 
off, and put in a Blade or two of Mace, a little 
French Barley, or a Cruft of white Bread to 
thicken it ;-when you have boiled your Mutton 
that it will fhake to Pieces, ftrain your Broth 
through a Hair Sieve, {cum off the Fat, and 


o- * 


fend it up with a dry Toatt. 
| T9 make Wine ‘Whey. 


Put a Pint of fkimed Milk, and half a Pint 
of White Wine into a Bafor, ‘let it ftand a few 
Minutes, then pour over it a Pint of boilin 
Water, let it ftand a little, and the Curd will 
gather of a Lump, and fettle to the Bottom, 
then pour your Whey into a China Bowl, and 
put ina Lump of Sugar, a Sprig of Balm, or 
aSliceof Lemon. _ os 


Oo2 To 


292 The ExPERIENCED 


To make Scurvy Grafs Whey. 


- Bort a Pint of blue Milk, take it off to cool, 
then put in two Spoonfuls of the Juice of 
Scurvy Grafs, and two Spoonfuls of good old 
Verjuice, fet it over the Fire and it will turn 


to a fine Whey; it is very good to drink in the 


Spring for the Scurvy. 
To make Cream of Tartar Whey. 


Put a Pint of blue Milk over the Fire, when 
it begins to boil, put in two Tea Spoonfuls of 
Cream of Tartar, then take it off the Fire, and 
let it ftand ’till the Curd fetrlés to the Bottom 
of the Pan, then pour it into a Bafon to cool, 
and drink it Milk warm, 


To make Barley Water. 


TAKE two Ounces of Barley, boil it in two 
Quarts of Water till it looks white and the Bar- 
ley grows foft, then ftrain the Water from 
the Barley, add to it a ljttle Currant Jelly or. 
Lemon. | 


N. B. You may put a Pint of more Water 10 
your Barley, and boil it over again, 


To make Groat Gruel. 


Bor. half a Pint of Groats in three Pints of 
Water or more, as yqu would have your Gre 
: oF 


ST 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 293 


for Thicknefs, with a Blade or two of Mace in 
it, when your Groats are fofty put in it White 
Wine and Sugar, to your Tafte, then take it off 
the Fire, put to it a Quarter of a Pound of Cur- 
rants wafhed and picked, put it in a China 
Bowl, with a Toaft of Bread round it, cut in © 
long narrow Pieces. 


To make Sagoe Gruel. 


Take four Ounces of Sagoe, give it a fcald 
in hot Water, then ftrain it through a Hair-Sieve, 
and put it over the Fire with two Quarts of - 
Water and a Stick of Cinnamon, keep {cum- 
ming it tillit grows thick and clear, when your 
Sagoe is enough, take out the Cinnamon and 
put in a Pint of Red Wine, if you would have it 
very ftrong put in more than a Pint, and 
fweeten it to your Tafte, then fet it over the Fire 
to warm, but don’t let: it boil after the Wine is 
put in, it weakens the Tafte and makes the Co- 

ournot fo deep a red, pouritintoa Tureen,and 
‘put in a Slice of. Lemon, when you are fending 
it to Table.: 
It is proper for a top Difh for Supper. 


To make. Sagoe with Milk. 


| Was your Sagoe in warm Water, and fet it 
over the Fire with a Stick of Cinnamon, and as 

much Water as will boil it thick and foft, then 

put in as much thin Cream or new Milkas will 

make it a proper Thicknefs, grate in half a 

Nutmeg, 


a 


2.94 The EXPERIENCED 


Nutmeg, fweeten it to your Tafte, and ferve it 
up in a China-Bowl or a Tureen. | ° 
tis proper for a top Dith for Supper. 


To make Barley Gruel. 


Take four Ounces of Pearl Barley, boil ic in 
two Quarts of Water with a Stick of Cinnamon 
in it, till itis reduced to one Quart, add to ita 
little more than a Pint of Red Wine, and Sugar 
to your Tafte, wafh and pick two or three 
Ounces of Currants very clean. 


To make Water Gruel. 


Takk one Spoonful of Oatmeal, boil it in | 


three Pints of Water for an Hour and Half, 


or tillitis fine and fmooth, then take it off the — 


Fire and let. it ftand to fettle, then, pour it in a 
China Bowl, and add White Wine, Sugar and 
Nutmeg to your Tafte, ferve it up hot with 
a Toaft buttered upon a Plate. = . 


To make a fweet Panada. 


Cur all the Cruft of a Penny Loaf; flice the 
reft very thin and put it into.a Sauce Pan with 
a Pint of Water, boil it’till itis very foftand looks 
clear, then put in a Glafs of Sack or Madeira 
Wine, grate in a little Nutmeg and put in a 
Lump of Butter the Size of.a Walnut, and 
Sugar to your Tafte, beat it exceeding fine, then 
put it in a deep Soup Difh and ferve it yp. 


N. B. You 


. £ _ ~ ~~ SU 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 295 


N. ‘B. You may leave out the Wine and 
Sugar, and put in a little good Cream and 
a little Salt, 1f you like it better. 


To make Chocolate. 


‘Scrape four Ounces of Chocolate and pour 
a Quart of boiling Water upon it, mill it well 
-with a‘ Chocolate Mill, and fweeten‘it to your 
Tafte, give it a boil and let it ftand all Night, 
then mill it again very well, boil it two Mi- 
nutes, then mill it ’till ic will leave a Froth 
upon the Top of your Cups. 


CHAP, XV. 
’ Obfervations on Wines, Catchup, and Vinegar. 


INE ‘is a very neceflary Thing in moft 
Families, and is often {poiled through 
Mifmanagement of. putting together, for if 
you let it ftand too long before you get it cold, 
' and don’t take great Care to put your Barm 
‘upon it in Time, it Summer-beams and blinks 
in the Tub, fo that it makes your Wine fret 
“in the Cafk, and will not let it fine; it is equally 
as great a Fault to let it work too long in the 
Tub, for that takes off all the Sweetnefs and 
Flavour of the Fruit or Flowers your Wine is 
made from, fo the only Caution I can give, 
‘is to be careful in following the Receipts, and 
to have your Veffels dry, -rinfe them with 
Brandy, 


296 The ExPERIENCED 


Brandy, and clofe them up as foon as your 
Wine has done fomenting. 


To make Lemon Wine to drink like Citron | 
Water. 


Pare five Dozen of Lemons very thin, put 


the Peels into five Quarts of French Brandy, 


and let them ftand fourteen Days, then make 
the Juice into a Syrup, with three Pounds of 
fingle refined Sugar, when the Peels are ready; 


‘boil fifteen Gallons of Water with forty Pounds 


of fingle refined Sugar for half an Hour, then 
put it into a .Tub when cool, add to it one | 
Spoonful of Barm, let it work two Days, then ‘ 
tun it'and putit in the Brandy, Peels and Syrup, 

ftir them all together and clofe up your Cafk: 
let it ftand three Months, then bottle it, and it 


_ will be pale and as fine as any Citron Water, 
it’s more like a Cordial than Wine, . 


To make Lemon Wine a fecond Way. 


To one Gallon of Water put three Pounds of 


_ Powder Sugar, boil it a Quarter of an Hour, 
{cum it well, then pour it on the Rinds of four 


Lemons pared very thin, make the Juice intoa 
thick Syrup with half a Pound of the aboveSu- 
gar, take a Slice of Bread toafted and fpread on 
it a Spoonful of new Barm, put it in the Liquor 
when luke-warm, and let it work two Days, 
then tun it into your Cafk,-and let it ftand 
three Months, and then Bottle in, 


To 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER. 297 


To make Orange Wine. 


To ten Gallons of Water, add twenty-four 
Pounds of Lump Sugar, beat the Whites of fix 
Eggs very well, and mix them when the Water 
ts cold, then boil it an Hour, fcum it very well, 
take four Dozen of the rougheft and largeft 
Seville Oranges you can get, pair them very thin, 
put them into a Tub, and put the Liquor on 
them boiling hot, and when you think it is 
cold enough add to it three or four Spoonful 
of new Yéaft, with the Juice of the Oranges, 
and half an Ounce of Cochineal beat fine, and 
boiled in a Pint of Water, ftir it all together 
and let it work four Days, then put it in 
the Cafk, and in fix Weeks Time bottle it for 
Ufe. 


To make Orange Wine a fecond Way. 


To ten Gallons of Water, add twenty-feven 
-Pounds of Lump Sugar, boil them one Hour, 
{kim it all the Time, then take the Peels off five 
Dogzen of Oranges pared very thin, put them 
into a Tub, when you take the Liquor off 
the Fire, pour it upon them, and when it is al- 
moft cold add to it three Spoonful of good Yeatt 
and free from being bitter, with the Juice of 
all your Oranges, let ic work two or three 
Days, ftir it twice a Day, then put it into a 
Barrel with orie Quart of Mountain Wine, and 
four Ounces of the Syrup of Citron, ftirred it 
well in the Liquor; leave the Barrel open ’rill it 

, oS P. P . has ~ 


ths 12 pas gyare 


- ane sip Oa Se 
a? * . . 
’ 
. . ° ° 


298 The ExPERIENCED 


has done working, then clofe it well up, let 1 
fland fix Weeks and then bottle it. 


To make Orange Wine a third Way. 
Take fix Gallons of Water, and fifteen Pounds 


of Powder Sugar, the Whites of fix Eggs well 


beat, boil them all three Quarters of an Hour, 
and fcum it well; when it 1s cold for working, 
then take fix Spoonfuls of good Yeaft, and 
Ounces of the Syrup of Lemons, mix them | 
well, and add it to the Liquor, with the Juice | 
and Peel of fiteen Oranges, let ic work two 
Days and one Night, then tun it, and in three 
Months bottle it. 


To make Smyrna Raifin Wine. 


To one hundred of Raifins, put twenty Gal- 
lons of Water, let it ftand fourteen Days, then 
put it in your Cafk, when it. has been in fix 
Months, add to it one Gallon of French Brandy, 
and when it is fine, then bottle it. 


To make Elder Raifin Wine. 


To every Gallon of Water, put fix Pounds of 
Malaga Raifins fhread fmall, put them intoa 


_ Veffel, pour the Water. on them boiling hot, 


and let it ftand nine Days, ftirring it twice every 
Day, get the Elderberries when full ripe, pick 
them off the Stalks, put them into an Earthen 
Pot, and fet them in a moderate Oven all Night, 
then ftrain them through a coarfe Cloth, and 

: t0 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 299 


to every Gallon of Liquor, add one Quart of 
this Juice, ftir it well together, then toaft a 
Slice of Bread, and fpread three Spoonfuls of 
Yeaft on Both Sides, and put it in your Wine, 
and let it work a Day or two, then tun it into 
‘your Cafk, fill it up as it works over, when it 
‘has done working, clofe it up, and let it ftand 
one Year. 


To make Raifin Wine another Way. 


* Bortz ten Gallons of Spring Water one Hour, 
. when it 1s Milk warm, to every Gallon add fix 
Pounds of Malaga Raifins, clean picked and 

half chopped, ftir it up together twice a Day 

for nine or ten Days, then run it througha 

Hair Sieve, and fqueeze the Raifins well with 

your ‘Hands, and put the Liquor in your Bar- 

rel, bung it clofe up, and let it fland three 
Months, and then bottle ic. , 


To make Ginger Wine. 


Take four Gallons of Spring Water, and fe- 
ven Pounds of Lifbon Sugar, boil them a Quar- 
ter of an Hour, and keep fcuming it well, 
when the Liquor is cold, {queeze in the Juice 
of two Lemons, then boil the Peels, with two 

- Ounces of Ginger in three Pints of Water one 
' Hour, when it is cold put it all together into 
the Barrel, with two Spoonful of Yeaft, a 
Quarter of an Ounce of Ifinglafs beat very 
thin, and two Pounds of Jar Raifins, then clofe 
Pp2 it 


300 The ExPERIENCED 


it up, and let it ftand feven Weeks, then bottle 
it, the beft Seafon to make it is the Spring. 


To make Pearl Goofeberry Wine. 


TakE.as many of the beft Pearl Goofebernies 
when ripe as you pleafe, bruirfe them with a 
wooden Peftle in a Tub, and let them ftand 
all Night, then prefs and fqueeze them through 
a Hair-Sieve, fet the Liquor ftand feven or 
eight Hours, then pour it clear from the Sedi- 
ments ; and to every three Pints of Liquor add a 
Pound of double refined Sugar, and ftir it about _ 
till it is melted, then put to it five Pints, of | 
Water, and two Pounds of more Sugar, then © 
diflolve half an Ounce of Ifinglafs in Part of 
the Liquor, that has been boiled, put all m 
your Cafk,. ftop it well up for three Months, 
then bortle it, and put in every Bottle a Lump 
of _double refined Sugar.—This is excellent 

ine. 


To make Goofeberry Wine a fecontl Way. 


To a Gallon of Water put three Pounds of 
Lump Sugar, boil it a Quarter of an Hour and 
fcum it very well, then let it ftand ‘till it is 
almpoft cold, and take four Quarts of Goofe- 
berries whem full ripe, and -bruife them ina 
Marble Mortar, and put them in your Veflel, 
then pour in the Liquor and let it ftand two 
Days, and ftir it every four Hours, fteep half 
an Ounce of Ifinglafs ina Pint of Brandy, two 

: : Days 


nee ON EE ee 


Enciish HOUSE-KEEPER. 301 


Days ftrain the Wine through a Flannel Bag 
anto a Cafk, then beat the Ifinglafs in a Marble 
Mortar with five Whites of Eggs, then wifk 
them together half an Hour and put it in the 
‘Wine and beat them altogether, clofe up your 
Catk and put Clay over it, let it ftand fix 
Months, then Bottle it off for Ufe, put in 
each Bottle a Lump of Sugar, and two Raifins 
of the Sun, this is a very rich Wine, and when 
it has been kept in the Bottles twa or three 
Years, it will drink like Champaign. 


To make Blackberry Wine. 


GaTHER your Berries when they are full | 
ripe, take twelve Quarts and crufh them with 
your Hand, boil fix Gallons of Water with. 
twelve Pounds of brown Sugar, a Quarter of 
an Hour, fcum it well, then pour it on the | 
Blackberries, and let it ftand all Night, then ; 
ftrain it through a Hair-Sieve, put into your | 
Cafk fix Pounds of Malaga Raifins a little cut, : 
then put the Wine into the Cafk with one 
Ounce of Ifinglafs, which muft be diffolved ; 
an a little Cyder, ftir ic all up together, clofe 
it up and let it ftand fix.-Months, and then 
bottle it. - 


To make Rafpberry Wine. 


GaTHER your Rafpberries when full ripe 
and quite dry, crufh them directly and mix 
them with Sugar, it will preferve the Flavour 
which they would loofe in rwo Hours, to every 


Quart 


302 | The ExpERIENCED 


Quart of Rafpberries, put a Pound of fine 
Powder Sugar, when you have goc the Quan- 
tity you intend to make, to every Quart of 
Rafpberries add two Pounds of more Sugar, and 
one Gallon of cold Water, ftir it well together, 
and letit foment three Days, ftirring it five or 
fix times a Day, then put it in yourCafk, and 
for every Gallon put’ in two whole Eggs, take 
care they are not broke in putting them in, 
clofe it well up, and let it ftand three Months, 
then bottle it. 


N. B. If you gather the Berries when’ the 
Sun is hot upon them, and be quick in making: 
your Wine, it will keep the Virtue inthe Rafp- 
berries, and make the Wine more pleafant. 


do make Red Currant Wine. 


GaTHER the Currants when full ripe, ftrip 
them from the Stems, and fqueeze out the 
Juice, to one. Gallon of the Juice put two Gal- 
ons of cold Water, and two Spoonful of Yeaft, 
and let it work two Days, then ftrain it through 
a Hair-Sieve, at the fame Time put one Ounce 
of Ifinglafs to fteep in Cyder, and to every 
Gallon: of Liquor add three Pounds .of Loaf 
Sugar, ftir it well together, put it in a good 
Cafk, to every ten Gallons of Wine put two 
Quarts of Brandy, mix them all exceeding well 
in your Cafk, clofe it wellup, let it ftand four 
Months, then bottle it, 


To 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER, = 302 


To make Currant Wine another Way. 


TakE an equal Quantity of red and white 
Currants, bake them an Hour in a moderate 
Oven, then fqueeze them through a codrfe 
Cloth, what Water you intend.to ufe have it 
ready boiling, and to every Gallon of Water 
| put in one Quart of Juice and three Pounds of 
Loaf Sugar, boil it a Quarter of an.Hour, fcum 
it well, then put it in a Tub, when cool toaft 
a Slice of Bread and {pread on both Sides two 
Spoontuls of Yeaft, and let it work three Days, 
ftir it three or four Times a Day, then put 
it into a Cafk, and to every ten Gallons of 
Wine add a Quart of French Brandy, and the 
Whites of ten Eggs well beat, make the Cafk 
clofe up, and let it {tand three Months, then. 
bottle it. : : 


N. B. This is a pale Wine, but is a very good 
one for keeping and drinks pleafant, 


To make Sycamore’ Wine. 


TAKE two Gallons of the fap and boil it half 
an Hour, then add to it four Pounds of fine 
Powder Sugar, beat the Whites of three Eggs 
to a Froth, and mix them with the Liquor, but 
if it be too hor, it will porch the Eggs, fcum it 
very well, and boil it half an Hour, then ftrain 
it through a Hair-Sieve, and let it ftand till next 
Day, then pour it clear from the Sediments, 
put half a Pint of good Yeaft to every twelve 

| Gallons 
e 


304 The ExPpERIENCED 


Gallons, cover it clofe up with Blankets ‘till 
it is white over, then put it into the Barrel,.and 
leave the Bung-Hole open ’till it has done 
working, then clofe it well up, let it ftand three 
Months, then bottle it, the fifth Part of the 
Sugar miuft be Loaf, and if you like Raifins 
they are a great Addition to the Wine. 


N. B, You may make Birch Wine the fame Way. 
To make Birch Wine a fecond Way. 


Bo1zt twenty Gallons of Birch Water half an 
Hour, then put inthirty Pounds of Baftard Sugar, 
boil your Liquor and Sugar three Quarters of 
an Hour and keep fcumming it all the while, 
then put it intoa Tub and let it fland till it is 

uite cold, add’to it three Pints of Yeaft, ftir it 
three or four Times a Day for four or five Days, 
then put it into a Cafk with two Pounds of 
Malaga Raifins, and one Pound of Loaf Sugar, 
and half an Ounce of Hinglafs which muft be 
difflolved in Part of the Liquor, then put to 
it one Gallon of new Ale that is ready for 
tunning, work it very well in the Cafk five 
or fix Days, then clofe it up and let it fland 
a Year, then bottle it off. 


To make Walnut Wine. 


To every Gallon of Water put two Pounds | 
of brown Sugar, and one Pound of Honey, boil 
them half an Hour, and take off the Scum, 
put into the Tub a handful of Walnut Leaves 

to 

* 


EncLisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 30¢ 


tO every Gallon, and pour the Liquor upon | 


them, let it ftand all Night, chen take out the 
Leaves, and put in half a Pint of. Yeaft, and 
Jet it work fourteen Days, beat it four or five 
“"Fimes a Day, which will take off the Sweet- 
nefs, then itop up the Cafk, and let it ftand fix 
Months. 


This 1s a good Wine apainft Confumptions, or 
any inward Complaints. 


To make Cowllip Wine. 


To two Gallons of Water add two Pounds 
and a half of Powder Sugar, boil them half 
an Hour, and take off the Scum as it rifes, 
then pour it into a Tub to cool, with the Rinds 
of two Lemons, when it is cold, add four 
Quarts of Cowflip Flowers to the Liquor, with 
the Juice of two Lemons, let it ftand in the 
Tub two Days, flirring it every two or three 


Hours, and then put it in the Barrel, and let: 


it ftand three Weeks, or a Month, then Bottle 
it, and put a Lump of Sugar into every Bottle. 


N.B. It makes the beft and ftrongeft Wine to 
have only the Tops of the Peeps. 


“4 fecond Way to make Cowllip Wine. 


Bo1ix twelve Gallons of Water a quarter of 
an Hour, then add two Pounds and a half of 
Loaf Sugar to every Gallon of Water, then 
boil it as long as the Scum rifes ’till it clears 

= : Qq itfelf, 


> 


206 The ExPERIENCED 


itfelf, when almoft cold, pour it into a Tub, 
with one Spoonful of Yeaft, let it work one 
Day, then put in Thirty-two Quarts of Cow- 
flip Flowers, and Jet it work two or three Days, 
then put it all into a Barrel, with the Parings 
of twelve Lemons, the fame of Oranges, make 
the Juice of them into a thick’Syrup, with 
two or three Pounds of Loaf Sugar; when 
the Wine has done working, add the Syrup to 
it, then ftop up your Barrel very well, and let 
it fland cwo or three Months, then Bottle it. 


To make Elder Flower Wine. 


' Taxe the Flowers of Elder, and be careful 
that you don’t let any Stalks in, to every Quart 
of Flowers put one Gallon of Water, and 
‘three Pounds of Loaf Sugar, boil the Water 
and Sugar a quarter of an Hour, then pour 1 
on the Flowcrs, and let it work three Days, 
then ftrain the Wine through a Hair Sieve, 
and put it into a Cafk, to every ten Gallons of 
Wine, add one Ounce of Ifinglafs diffolved in 
Cyder, and fix whole Eggs, clofe. it up, and 
let it ftand fix Months, and then Bottle it. 


Zo make Balm Wine. 


TaKE nine Gallons of Water to forty Pounds 
_ of Sugar, boil them gently for two Hours, 
fcum it well, then put it into a Tub to codl, 
then take two Pounds and a Half of the Tops 
of Balm, bruife it, and put it into a Barrel with 
' a litle new Yeaft, and when the Liquor is cold, 


pour 


eg 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 307 


‘pour it on the Balm, and ftir it well together, 
and let it ftand twenty-four Hours, and keep 
_ ftirring it often, then clofe it up, and let it ftand 
. fix Weeks, then rack it off, and put a Lump of 
Sugar into every Bottle, cork it well, and it 
‘will be better the fecond Year than.the firft. 


N. B Clary Wine is made the fame Way. 
| To make \hperial Water. 


Put two Ounces of Cream of Tartar into a 
.large Jar, with the Juice and Peels of two Le- 
mons, pour on them feven Quarts of boiling 
Water, when it is cold, clear it through a Gawz 
Sieve, fweeten it to your Tafte, and bottle it.— 
Ie will be fit to ufe the next Day. 


To cure acid Raifin Wine, 


Tue following Ingredients muft be propor- 
tioned to thé Degrees of ‘Acidity or Sournefs, 
if but fmall, you muft ufe lefs, if a ftronger 
acid, a larger Quantity, it muft be proportion 
ed to the Quantity of Wine, as well as the De- 

grees of Acidity or Sournefs, be fure that the 
Cail be near full before that you apply the In- 
grédients, which will: have this good Effect, 
the acid Part of the Wine will rife to the Top 
immediately, and iffue out at the Bung-hole, , 
but if the Cafk be not full, the Part that fhould 
fly off will continue in the Cafk, and weaken 
the Body of the Wine, but if your Cafk be full, 
it will be ready to have a Body laid on it in 
Qqz : three 


308 The ExPERIENCED 


three or four Days Time.—I fhall here Propor- 
tion the Ingredients for a Pipe; fuppofing 1t to 
be quite acid that is juft recoverable: Take two 
Gallons of fkimmed Milk, and two Ounces-of 
Ifinglafs, boil them a quarter of an Hour, ftrain 
the Liquor and let it ftand until itis cold, then. 
break it well with your Whifk, add to it four 
Pounds of Alabafter, and three Pounds of Whit- 
ing, ftir them well up together, then put in 
one Ounce of Salt of Tartar, mix by Degrees 
‘a little of the Wine with it fo as to diffolve it to 
-a thin Liquor, put thefe in your Cafk, and ftir 
it well with a Paddle, and it will immediately 
difcharge the acid Part from it as before-men- 
tioned, when.it has done fomenting, bung it 
up for three Days, then rack it off, and you 
‘will find Part of its Body gone off by the ftrong 
Fomentation; to remedy this, you muft lay a 
frefh Body on in Proportion to the Degree to 
which it hath been lowered by the above Me- 
- thod, always having a {pecial Care not to alter 
its Flavour, and this muft be done with clari- 
fied Sugar, for no Fluid will agree with it but 
what will make it thinner, or confer its own 
Tafte, therefore the following is the beft Me- 
thod for performing it: To lay a frefh Body on 
' Wine, take three Quarters af a Hundred of 
Brown Sugar, and pyt it into your Copper, 
then put in a Gallon of Lime Water to keep it 
from burning, ftir it all the while 'till it boils, 
then math three Eggs and Shells altogether, 
add them to the Sugar, and keep ftirring ic a- 
bout, and as Scum or Filth rifes take it off very 
clean, then put it in your Can, and let it fon 
. . th 


' 


Encuish HOUSE-KEEPER, 309 © 


"till it is cold before you ufeit, then break it with — 
your Whifk by Degrees, with about ten Gal- 
lons of the Wine, and apply it to the Pipe, 
work it with the Paddle an Hour, then put a 
Quart of Stum-forcing to it, which will unite 
their Bodies, and make it fine and bright. 


To make Stum. 


TaxkeE a five Gallon Cafk that has been well 
foaked in Water, fet it to a drain, thentakea | 
Pound of Roll Brimftone and melt it in a Ladle, 
put as many Rags to it as will fuck up the 
melted Brimftone, burn all thofe Rags in the 
Cafk, cover the Bung-hole but let it have a 
little, fo that it will keep burning when it is 
burned out, put to it three Gallons of the 
ftrongeft Cyder, and one Ounce of common 
' Allum pounded, mix it with the Cyder in the 

Cafk, afd roll it about five or fix Times a Day, 

for ten Days, then take out the Bung and hang 
the Rémainder of the Rags on a Wire in the 
Gafk, as near the Cyder as poffible, and fet rhem 
on Fire as before, when it is burnt out bung 
the Cafk clofe, and roll it well about three or | 
four Times a Day, fortwo Days, then let it ftand 
feven or eight Days, and this Liquor’ will be 
fo ftrong as to affect your Eyes by looking at 
it. When you force a Pipe of Wine take a 
Quart of this Liquor, beat half an Ounce of 

Ifnglafs, and pull it in fmall Pieces, whiik it 
' together, and it will diffolve in four or five 
Hours, break the Jelly with your Whifk, add a 
Pound of Alabafter to it and diffolve it in 2 

7 : . | ittle 


f 


310. The ExPERIENCED 


little of the Wine, then put it in the Pipe and 
bung it clofe up, and in a Day’s Time. it will be 
fine and bright. 


To refine Malc Liquor. 


To.cure a Hogfhead of four Ale: Take two 
Ounces of Ifingla(fs, diffolve it in two Quarts of 
new Ale, and fet itall Night by the Fire, then 
take two Pounds of coarfe Brown Sugar, and 


boil it in a Quart of new Wort, a Quarter ofan - 


Hour, then put it into a Pail, with two Gallons 
of new Aleout of the Kear, whifk the above 
Ingredients very well for an Hour or more ‘till 
it be all of a-white Froth, beat very fine 
_ one Pound of Plaifter of Paris, and put it into 
-your Cafk, with the Fermentation, and whitk 
it very well for half an Hour in your Cafk with 
a {trong Hand, until you have brought all the 
Filth and Sediments from the Bottom of your 
afk, and it will look White ; if your Cafk be 
not full, fill ic up with new Ale, and the Fer- 
mentation will have this good Effect ; the acid 
Part of the: Ale will rife tothe Top imme- 
diately, and iffue out at the Bung-hole, but if 
the Cafk be not full the Part that fhould fly 
out, will continue in and weaken the Body of 
the Ale, be fure you don’t fail filling up your 
Cafk four or five Times a Day, until it has done 
working, and all the Sournefs or white muddy 
_ Part is gone, and when it begins to look like 
new tunned Ale, ‘put in a large Handful of {pent 
Hops, clofe it up, and let it ftand fix Weeks, 
if itbe not fine, and Cream like bottled Ale, let 
: | It 


ae 
EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. | 3817 


it ftand a Month longer, and it will drink brifk 
like bottled Ale; this is an'excellent Method, 
and I have ufed it to Ale that has been ‘both 
white and four, and never found it to fail. If 
you have any Malt that you fufpect is not good, 
fave out twoGallions of Wort, and a few Hours 
before you want it, add to it half a Pint of © 
Barm, and when you have tunned your Drink 
‘into the Barrel, and it- hath quite done working, 
make the above Fermentation, and when you 
have. put it in the Barrel, whifk it very well for 
half an Hour, and it will fet your Ale on 
working a-frefh, and ‘when the two Gallons is 
worked white over, keep filling up your Barrel ° 
with it four or five Times a Day, and let it © 
work four or five Days, when it has done 
workjng clofe it up; if the Malt has got any 
bad Smack or Tafte, or be of a fluid Nature this | 
will take it off. | . 


To make Sack Mead. 


To every Gallon of Water put four Pounds 
of Honey, boil it three Quarters of an Hour, 
and {cum it as before, to each Gallon add half ! 

anOunce of Hops,then boil it half anHour,and 
‘let it ftand ’till the next Day, then put it in 
your Cafk, and to thirteen Gallons of the above 
Liquor, add a Quart of Brandy or Sack, let it 
be lightly clofed ’till the Fermentation is quite 
done, then make it up very clofe; if it bea 
range Cafk let it ftand a Year before you Bot- 
tle it. : : : 


| Fo 


312 The ExPeRiENCED 


To make Cowllip Mead. 


To fifteen Gallons of Water put thirty 
Pounds of Honey, boil it ’ull one Gallon is 
watted, feum it, then take it off the Fire, have 
ready fixteen Lemons cut in Halves, take a 
Gallon of the Liquor, and put it tothe Lemons, 

ut the reft of the Liquor into a Tub, with feven 
Pecks of Cowflips, and let them ftand all Night, 
then put in the Liquor with the Lemons, and 
eight Spoonfuls of new Yeaft,- a Handful of 
Sweet Brier, ftir them all well together, and let 

it work three or four Days, .then ftrain it, and 
"put it in your Cafk, and in fix Months Time you 
may Bottle it. — 


To make Walnut Mead. 


To every Gallon of Water put three Pounds 
anda Half of Honey, boil them together three 
Quarters of an Hour, to every Gallon of Li- 

uor, put about two Dozen of Walnut Leaves, 
pour your Liquor boiling hot upon them, let 
them ftand all Night, then take the Leavés out 
and put in a Spoonful of Yeaft, and let it work 
two'or three Days, then make it up, and let it 
ftand three Months, then Bottle ir. 


To make Ozyat. 


Biancu a Pound of Sweet Almonds, and the 
fame of Bitter, beat them very fine, -with fix 
Spoonfuls of Orange Flower Water, take three 

| Ounces 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER, 313 | 


Ounces of the four cold Seeds, if you beat the 
Almonds, but if you, don’t beat them, you 
muft take fix Ouncés of the four cold Seeds, 
then: with two Quarts of Spring Water, rub 
your pounded Seeds and Almonds fix Times 
through a Napkin, then add four Pounds of ° 
treble refined Sugar, boil it to a thin Syrup, 
fkim it well, and when it is cold, then Bottle it. — 


- Lemonade for the fame Ufe. 


To one Quart of boiled Water, add the Juice 
of fix Lemons, rub the Rinds of the Lemons 
with.Loaf Sugar to your own Tafte; when the 
Water is near cold, mix the Juice and Sugar 
with it, then Bottle it for Ufe. 


To make a rich Acid for Punch. 


Bake Red Currants and ‘ftrain them as you 
do for Jellies, take a Gallon of the Juice, 
put to it two Quarts of new Milk, cruth 
Pearl Goofeberries when full ripe, and ftrain 
them through a coarfe Cloth, add two Quarts 
of the Juice and three Pounds of double refined | 
Sugar, three Quarts of Rum. and two of 
Brandy, one Ounce of Ifinglafs diffolved in 
Part of the Liquor, mix it all up together, and 
putitin a little Cafk, and let it ftand fix Weeks, 
and then Bottle it for Ufe. It will kecp many 
Years and fave much Fruit. ~ 


Re | . To 


314 The ExPERIENCED 


Zo make Shrub. 


Take a Gallon of new Milk, put to it two 
Quarts of Red Wine, pare fix Lemons and four 
Seville Oranges very thin, put im the Rinds, and 
the Juice of Twelve of each Sort, two’Gallons 
- of Rum and one of Brandy, let it ftand cwenty- 


four Hours, add to it two Pounds of double | 
refined Sugar, and ftir it well together, then | 


puri in a Jug, cover. it clofe up and let i 
ftand a Fortnight, then run it through a Jelly 
Bag, and Bottle it for Ufe. ° 


To make Sherbet. 


Take nine Seville Oranges and three Lemons, 
gratcoff the yellow Rimds and put the Rafpings 
into a Gallon of Water, and three Pounds of 
double-refined ‘Sugar, and boil it to a Candy 
Height, then take it.off the Fire, and put in the 
Juice and Pulp of the above, and keep ftirrmg 
it until it is almoft cold, then put it in a Pot 
for Ufe. , : 


To make. Rafpberry Brandy. 


GaTuHER the Rafpberriés when the Sun‘is 
hot upon them, and as foon as.ever you have 
got them, to every five Quarts of ‘Rafpberries 
put one Quart of the beft Brandy, boil a Quart 
_ Of Water five Minutes witha Pound of double- 
refined Sugar init, and pour it boiling horton 
the Berries, let them ftand all Night, then add 

. nine 


ENGLISH HOUSE-KEEPER. 315 


mine Quarts more Brandy, ftir it about very 
well, put it in a Stone Bottle, and let it ftanda 
Month or fix Weeks; when fine Bottle it. 


To make black Cherry Brandy. 


Taxeout the Stones of eight Pounds of black 
Cherries, and put on them a Gallon of the beft 
Brandy, bruife the Stones in a Mortar, then put. 
them 1n your Brandy, cover them up clofe and 
tet them ftand a Month or fix Weeks, then pour 
it clear from the Sediments and Bottle it, 


To make Orange Brandy. 


Pare eight Oranges very thin, and fteepthe 
Peels in a Quart of Brandy forty-cight Hours ° 
in a clofe Pitcher, then take three Pints of Water 
and three Quarters of a Pound of Loaf Sugar, 
boil it until it is reduced to half the Quantity, 
then let it fland ‘till itis cold, then mix it with 
the Brandy, let it ftand fourteen Days, and then 
Bottle it, | 


Te make Almond Shrub, 


Take three Gallons Rum or Brandy, three 
Quarts of Orange Juice, the Peels of three 
Lemons, three Pounds of Loaf Sugar, then take 
four Ounces of Bitter Almonds, blanch and 
beat them. fine, mix them in a Pint of Milk, 
then mix them all well together, let it ftand an 
Hour to curdle, run it through a Flannel Ba 

Rr2z fevera 


316 The ExrpERIENCED 


feveral Times till it is clear, then Bottle it for 
 Ufe. | 


_ To make Currane Shrub. 


"Pick your Currants clean, from the Stalks 
when they are full ripe, and put Twenty-four 
Pounds: into a Pitcher, with two Pounds of 
fingle refined Sugar, clofe the Jug well up, 
and put it into a Pan of botling Water ‘tall chey 
are foft, then ftrain them through a Jelly Bag, 
and to.every Quart of Juice put one Quart of | 
Brandy, a Pint of Red Wine, one Quart of 
new Milk; a Pound of double refined Sugar; 
and the Whites of two Eggs wel| beat, mix — 
_them ‘all together, and cover them clofe- up 
two Days, then run it through a Jelly Bag, 
' and Bottle it for Ufe. : 


To make Walnut Catchup, 


Take green’ Walnuts before the Shell is 
formed, and grind them in a Grab Mill, or 
pound them in a Marble Mortar, fqueeze our 
the Juice through a coarfe Cloth, ‘put to every 
Gallon of Juice one Pound of Anchovies, one 
Pound of Bay Salt; four Ounces of Jamaica 
Pepper, two of Long, and two of Black Pep- 
per, of Mace, Cloves, and Ginger, each one 
Ounce, and a Stick of Horfe-radith, boil all 
together ‘till reduced to half the Quantity, 

ut it in a Pot, and when cold Bottle it; it will 
Fe ready in three Months, . 


To 


a, ne mee ee ee OO a 


Encrish HOUSE-KEEPER. 317 


To make Walnut Catchiup another Way. 


Put your Walnuts in Jars, cover them with 
cold ftrong Ale Allegar, tie them clofe ‘for 


twelve Months, then take the Walnuts out . 


from the Allegar,:and put to every Gallon of 
the Liquor two Heads of Garlick, half a Pound 
of Anchovies, one Quart of Red Wine, op> 
Ounce of Mace, one of Cloves, one of Long, 
ohe of Black, and one of Jamaica Pepper, 
with one of Ginger, boil them all in the Li- 
‘ quor ‘till it is reduced to half the Quantity, 
-the next Day Bottle it for Ufe; it is good in 
Fifh Sauce, or ftewed Beef. In my Opinion it 
is an excellent Catchup, for the longer it is 
kept the better-it is, I have kept it five Years, 
and it was much better than when firft made, 


N. B. You may find how to pickle the Wal- | 
nuts you have taken out, amongft the other 


- Pickles. | 


To make’ Mum Catchup. 


~ "To a Quart of old Mum put four Ounces of 


Anchovies, of Mace, and Nutmegs fliced, one 
- Ounce, of Cloves, and Black Pepper, half an 
Ounce, boil it till it is reduced one Third; 
when cold Bortle it for Ufe. 


To 


gi8 The EXPERIENCED 


To make a Catchup fo keep feveps Tears. 


Take two Quarts of the oldeft ftrong Beer 
‘you can get, put to it one Quart of Red Wine, 
three quarters of a Pound of Anchovies, three 
Ounces of Shalots peeled, half an Ounce of 
Mace, the fame of Nutmegs, a quarter of an 
Ounce of Cloves, three large Races of Ginger 
cut itt Slices, boil all together over a moderate 
Fire, ’till one Third is wafted, the next Day 
Bottle it for Ufe; it will carry to the Eaft- 
Indies, , 


To make Mulhsoom Catchup. 


Taxe the full grown Flaps of Mufhreoms, 
¢rufh them. with your Hands, throw a Hand- 
ful of Salt into every Peck of Mufhrooms, and 
let them ftand all Night, then put them mito 
Stew Pans, and fet them in a gpick Oven for 
. twelve Hours, and ftrain them through a Hair 
Sieve, to every Gallon of Liquor, put of Cloves, 
Jamaica, Black Pepper, and Ginger one Ounce 
each, and half a Pound of common Salt, fet 
it on a flow Fire; and let it boil ’till half the 
Liquor is wafted away, then put it in a clean 
Pat, when cold Bottle it for Ufe. 


Yo make Muthroom Powder. 


Take the thickeft large Buttons you can get, 
peel them, cut off the Root-end, but don't 
wath them, fpread them feparately on Pewter 

| Dithes, 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER, gig 


Dithes, ‘and fet them in a flow Oven to dry, 
let the Liquor dry up into the Mufhrooms, it 
makes the Powder ftronger, and let them con- 
‘tinue in the Oven ‘till you find they. will Pow- 
der, then beat them in a Marble Mortar, and . 
“fift them through a fine Sieve, with a iietle 
‘Chyan Pepper, and pounded Mace; Bottle it, 
and keep it in a dry Clofet. oo 


To make "Tarragon Vinegar. 


TAKE Tarragon juftas it is gong into Bioom, .. 
ftrip off the Feaves, and to every Pound of 

Leaves, put a Gallon of ftrong ‘White Wine 
“Vinegar in a Stone Jus to foment for a Fort- 
night, then run it through a Flannel Bag, to 
every four Gallons of Vinegar, put half an 
Ounce of [finglafs -diflolved in Cyder, mix it 
well with the Vinegar, then put it into large 
Bottles, and let it ftand one Month+to‘fine, then 
rack it off, and put itinto-Pint Bottles for Ufe. 


Yo make Elder Mower Vinegar. 


- To.every Peck of the Peeps of Elder Flower, 
pu two Gallons of ‘ftrong Ale Allegar, and ‘fet 
in the Sun in a Stone jug for a Fortnight, 
‘then filter,it throngh a Flannel Bag, .when- you: 
Bottle it, put it in fmall Bottles, it keeps-the 
- Flavour much, better than large ones,—Be care- 
ful you don’t drop any Stalks among the 
Pecps. | 
‘It makes a pretty Mixture on a Side Table, 
with Tarragon Vinegar, Lemon Pickle, &c. 


To 


g20 «86°, “The ExPpERIENEED 


To make Goosberry Vinegar. | 


Take the ripeft Goofberrics you can get, 
crufh them with your Hands in a Tub, to every 
Peck .of Goosberries, put two Gallons of Wa- 


ter, mix them well together, and let them work 


for three Weeks, ftir them up three or four 


Times a Day, then ftrain the Liquor through | 


a Hair Sieve, and put to every Gallon a Pound 
of Brown Sugar, a Pound of Treacle, a Spoon- 
ful of frefh Barm, ‘and let it work three or four 
Days in the fame Tub well wafhed, tun it into 
Iron-hooped Barrels, and let ic fland twelve 
Months, then draw it into Bottles for Ufe.— 
This far exceeds any White Wine Vinegar. 


To make Sugar Vinegar. 


_ Put nine Pounds of Brown Sugar to every 
fix Gallons of Water, boil it for a quarter of 
an Hour, then put it into a Tub when luke- 
warm, put to it a Pint of new Barm, let it 
work four or five Days, ftir it up three or four 
Times .a Day, then tun it into aclean Barrel 
Iron-hooped, and fet it full in the Sun; if you 
make ic in February, it will be fit for Ufe in 


_Auguft; you may ufe it for moft Sorts of Pick- 


Jes, except Mufhrooms and Walnuts. 


CHAP, 


EnchisH HOUSE-KEEPER. .321 


. CHAP, XVI 
Obfervations on Pickling. 


ICKLING is a very ufeful Thing in a 
Family, and is as often ill managed, or 
at leaft made to pleafe the Eye by pernicious 
Things, which is the only Thing that ought to 
“be avoided, for nothing is more common,than | 
to green Pickles in a Brafs Pan, for the Sake 
of having them a good Green, when at the 
fame Time they will green as well by heating 
the Liquor, and keeping them on a proper 
heat upon the Hearth, without the Help of 
Brafs, or Verdigreafe of any Kind, for it is 
Poifon to a great Degree, and nothing ought 
to be avoided more than ufing Brafs or Copper 
that is not well tinned; but the beft Way is, 
and the only Caution I can give, is to be very 
particular in keeping the Pickles from any 
Thing of that Kind, and follow ftrictly the 
Direction of your Receipts, as you will find 
Receipts for many. Kinds of Pickles, without 
being put in Salt and Water atall, and greened 
only by pouring your Vinegar hot upon them, 
_and it will keep them a long Time. 


Lo pickle Cucumbers. 


Take the {malleft,Cucumbers you can get, 
and as free from Spots as poffible, put them 
into a ftrong Salt and Water for nine or ten 
Days, or “till they are quite Yellow, and ftir 

Sf | them 


322 The ExpERIENCED 


them twice a Day at leaft, or they will {cum 
over, and grow foft; whe they are thoroughly 
Yellow, pour the Water from them, and cover 
them with Plenty of Vine Leaves, fet your 
Water over the Fire, when it boils pour it upon 
them, and fet them:on the Hearth to kee 
warm, when the Water grows cool, make it 
boiling hot again, and pour it upon them, 
keep doing fo ’till you fee they are a fine Green, 
which will be in four or five Times, be fure 
you keep them well covered with Vine Leaves, 
a Cloth, and Difh over the Top to keep in the 
Steam, it helps to green them fooner, when 
they are greened, put them into a Hair Sieve to 
drain, then make a Pickle for them; to every 
two Quarts of White Wine Vinegar, put half 
an Ounce of Mace, and ten or twelve Cloves, 
one Ounce of Ginger cut in Slices, the fame 
of Black Pepper, and a Handful of Salt, boil 
them all together five Minutes, then pour it 
hot upon your Pickles, and tie them down 
with a Bladder for Ufe. 


_ N.B. You may pickle them with Ale Alle- 

gar, or diftilled Vinegar; if you ufe Vinegar, 
it muft not be boiled; you may add three or 
four Cloves of Garlick, or Shalots, they are 

very good ‘for keeping the Pickle from 
_ Caneing. ro, , | . 


To pickle Cucumbers a fecond Way, 
GATHER your Cucumbers on a dry Day, 


and put them into a narrow-topped Pitcher, 
put - 


EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 322 


ut to them. a Head of Garlick, a few white 
uftard Seeds, and a few Blades of Mace, 
Ihalf an Ounce of Black Pepper, the fame of 
Long Pepper, and Ginger, and a good Hand- 
ful of Salt into your Vinegar, pour it upon 
your Cucumbers .bojling hot, fet them by the 

ire, and keep them warm for three Days, and 
boil your Allegar once every Day, and keep 
them clofe covered ‘till they be a good Green, 
and then tie them down with a Leather, and 
. Keep them for Ufe. 


To pickle C ucumbers in Slices. 


Gert your Cucumbers large before the Seeds 
are ripe, flice them a quarter of an Inch thick, 
then fay them on a Hair Sieve, and betwixt 
eyery Lay put a Shalot or two, throw on a 
little Salt, let them ftand four or five Hours to- 
' drain, then put them in a Stone Jar, take as 

much ftrong Ale Allogar as will cover them, 
boil it five Minutes, with a Blade or two of 
Mace, a few White Pepper Corns, a little Gin- 
ger dliced, and fome Horfe-radifh {craped, then 
pour it boiling hot upon yoyr Cucumbers, let 
them ftand ‘tll they are cold, do fo for three 
Times more; let it go cold betwixt every Time, 
then tie them down with a Bladder for Ufe. -. 


To pickle Mangoe. 


Take the largeft Cucumbers you can get, 

before they are too ripe, or Yellow at the Ends, 

then cut a Piece out of the Side, and take om 
S {2 a 


324 The ExPERIENCED 


all the Seeds with an Apple Scraper, or Tea 
Spoon, and put them into a very ftrong Sale 
and Water, for eight or nine Days, or 'till they 
are very Yellow, ftir them very well two or 
three Times each Day, then put them intoa 
Brafs Pan, with a large Quantity of Vine 
Leaves both under and over them, beat a little 
Roach Allum very fine, and put it in the Salt 
and Water that they came out of, pour itu 
your Cucumbers, and fet it upon a very flow 
Fire, for four or five Hours, ‘till they are a 
pretty Green, then take them out and dram 
them on a Hair Sieve, when they are cold, put 
to them a little Horfe-radifh, then M 

Seed, two or three Heads of Garlick, a few 
Pepper Corns, flice a few green Cucumbers in 
fmall Pieces, then Horfe-radifh, and the fame 
as before-mentioned, ’till you have filled them, 
then take the Piece you cut out, and few it on 
with a large Needle and Thread, and do all the 
reft the fame Way, have ready your Pickle, to 
every Gallon of Allegar, put one Ounce of 
Mace, the fame of Cloves, two Ounces of Gin- 
ger fliced, the fame of Long Pepper, Black 
Pepper, Jamaica Pepper, three Ounces of Muf- 
tard Seed tied up in a Bag, four Ounces of 
Garlick, and a Stick of Horfe-radifh cut im 
Slices, boil them five Minutes in the Allegar, 
then pour it upon your Pickles, tie them down, 
and keep them for Ufe. 


Te 


| 
| 
| 


net Fe er re re 


EE 
EncLtisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 325 


To pickle Codlins. 


Gert your Codlins when they are the Size of 
a large French Walnut, put a good deal of Vine 
Leaves in the Bottom of a Brafs Pan, then put 
in your Codlins, cover them very well with 
Vine Leaves, and fet them over a very flow 
Fire ’till you can peel the Skins off, then take 
them carefully up into a Hair Sieve, and peel 
them with a Penknife, and put them intro the 
fame Pan again with the Vine Leaves and Wa- 
ter as before, cover them clofe, and fer them 
over a flow Fire till they are a fine green, then 
drain them through a Hair Sieve, and when 
they are cold, put them into diftilled Vinegar, 
pour a lirtle Meat-Oil on the Top, and tie them 
down with a Bladder. : : 


To pickle Kidney Beans. 


Get your Beans when they are young and 
fmall, then put them into a ftrong Salt and 
Water for three Days, ftir them up two or three 
Times each Day, then put them into a Brafs 
Pan, with Vine Leaves both under and over 
them, pour on the fame Water as they came 
out off, cover them clofe, and fet them over a 
very flow Fire ’till they are a fine Green, then. 
put them into a Hair Sieve to drain, and make } 
a Pickle for them of White Wine Vinegar, or 
fine Ale Allegar, boil it five or fix Minutes, 
with a little Mace, Jamaica Pepper, Long Pep- | 
per, and a Race or two of Ginger fliced, then | 


pour ; 


326 The EXPERIENCED 


pour it hot upon the Kidney Beans, and tie 
them down with a Bladder. 


Lo pickle. Samphire. 


Wasn your Samphire very well in four fmall 
Beer, then put it into a large Brafs Pan, diffolve 
a little Bay Salt, and twice the Quantity of com- 
mon Salt in four Beer, then fll up your Pan 
with it, cover it clofe, and fet it over a flow 
Fire till it is a fine Green, then drain it through 
a Sieve, and put it into Jars, boil as much Su- 

ar Vinegar, or White Wine Vinegar, with a 

ace or two of Ginger, and a few Pepper 
Corns, as will cover it; then pour it hop upon 
your Samphire, and tie it well down. 


To pickle Walnuts Black, 


GaTHER your Walnuts when the Sun is hot: 
upon them, and before the Shell is hard, which 
- you may know by running a Pin into them, 
then put them in a ftrong Salt and Water for 
nine Days, and ftir them twice a Day, and 
change the Salt and Water every three Days, 
then put thera into a Haiy Sieve, and let them 
fland in the Air ‘tli they turn Black, then put 
them into flrong Stone Jars, and pour boiling 
Allegar over them, cover them up, and let 
them fland ‘till they are cold, then boal the 
Allegar three Times more, apd let it ftand ‘ull 
itis cold betwixt every Time; tie them down 
with Paper and a Bladder over them,.and let 
them fland two Months, then take them -out 

: : of 


| 
{ 
| 
| 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER. 327 


of the Allegat, and make a Pickle for them, 
to every two Quarts of Allegar put half an 
Ounce of Mace, the fame of Cloves, one Ounce 
of Black Pepper, the fame of Jamaica Pepper, 
Ginger, and Long Pepper, and two Ounces of 
common Salt, boil ip. ten Minutes, and pour it 
hot wpon your Walnuts, and tie: them down 
with a Bladder and Paper over it. - 


A fecond Way to pickle Walnuts Black. — 


WHEN you have got your Walnuts as be- 
fore, put them into cold ftrong Allegar, with 
a good deal of Salt in it, let them ftand three 
Months, then pour off the Allegar, and boil it 
_ with a little more Salt in it, then pour it upon 

your Walnuts, and let them ftand ’till they are 
cold, make it hot again, and pour it upon your 
Walnuts, and do fo ’tyll they are Black, then 
put them into a Hair sieve, and make a Pickle 
for them the fame Way as above, keep them 
in ftrong Stone Jars, and they will be fit for 
Ufe in a Month or fix Weeks Time. _ 


To pickle Walnuts.an Olvve Colour. 


GaTHER your Walnuts, and put them ina 
firong Ale Allegar, and’ tie them down ‘with a 
Bladder, and a Paper over it, to keep out the 
Air, and let them ftand twelve Months; then 
take them out of that Allegar, and make a 
Pickle for them of ftrong AHegar, and to every 
Quart put half an Ounce of Jamaica Pepper, 
the fame of Long Pepper, a quarter of ans 

a unce 


ee eam = 


328 The ExPpERIENCED 


Ounce of Mace, the fame of Cloves, one Head 
of. Garlick, and a little Salt, boil them all to- 
gether five or fix Minutes, then pour it upon 
your Walnuts, when it is cold, heat it again 
three Times, then tie them down with a Blad- 
der, and Paper over it; they will keep feveral 
Years without either turning Colour, or grow- 
ing foft, if your Allegar be good. 


N.B. Youmay make exceeding goodCatchup 
of the Allegar that comes from your Walnuts, 
by adding a Pound of Anchovies, one Ounce 
of Cloves, the fame of Long and Black Pepper, 
one Head of Garlick, and half a Pound of com- 
mon Salt to every Gallon of your Allegar, boil 
ic ‘till ic is half reduced away, and fkim it 
very well, then Bottle it for Ufe, and it will 
keep a long Time. | 


To pickle Walnuts White. © 


Take the largeft French Walnuts, pare them 
ull you can fee the White appear, but take 
great Care you don’t cut it too deep, it will 
make them full of ‘Holes, put them into Salc 
and Water as you pare them, or they will turn 
Black, when you have pared them all, have 
ready a Sauce Pan well tinned,. full of boiling 
Water with a little Salt, then put in your Wal- 
nuts, and let them boil five Minutes very 
quick, then take them out, and fpread them 
betwixt two clean Cloths, when they are cold, 
put them into wide mouthed Bottles, and fill 
them up with diftilled Vinegar, and pur 
7 Blade 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER, 329 


Blade or two of Mace, and a large Tea Spoon- 


ful of eating Oil in every Bottle; the next Day 
ork them ‘well, and keep them in a dry 
Place. | } 


To pitkle Walouts Green. 


'. ‘Taxe the large double, or French Walnuts, 

before the Shells are- hard, wrap them fingly 
in Vine Leaves, put a few Vine Leaves in the 
Bottom of your Jar, fill it near full with your 
Walnuts, take Care that they don’t touch one 
‘another, put a good many Leaves over them, 


then fill your Jar with good Alegar, cover them | 


clofe that the Air cannot get in, let them ftand. 


for three Weeks, then pour the Alegar from 
‘ them, put frefh Leaves in.the Bottom of ano- 

ther Jar, take out your Walnuts, and wra 
them feparately in frefh Leaves as quick as pof- 
fibly you can, put them into your Jar with a 
good many Leaves over’them, then fill it with 
White Wine Vinegar, let them ftand three 
Weeks, pour off your Vinegar, and wrap them 
‘as before with frefh Leaves at the Bottom and 
Top of your Jar, take frefh White Wine Vine- 
gar, put Salt in it ‘till ic will bear an Egg, add 
to it Mace, Cloves, Nutmeg, and Garlick if 
you. chufe it, boil it about eight Minutes, then 

pour it on your Walnuts, tie them clofe with 

Paper.and a Bladder, and fet them by for Ufe,— 

Be fure to keep them always covered, when 
you take any out for Ufe, what is left muft 
not be put in again, but have ready a frefh 
Tet Jar 


330 The ExprerRIENCED 


Jar with boiled Vinegar and Salt to put them 


| To pickle Barberries. 


Get your Barberries before they are too ripe, 
pick out the Leaves, and dead Stalks, then put 
them into Jars, with a large Quantity of ftrong 
Salt and Water, and tie them down with a 
Bladder. : CL : 


'N. B. When you fee your Barberries to ftum 
over, put them into frefh Salt and Water, they 
need no Vinegar, their own fharpnefs is fuffi- 
cient enough to keep them. 


To pickle Parfley Green. 


Take a large Quantity of cutled Parfley, 
make a ftrong Salt and Water to bear an Egg, 
put in your Parfley, let it: fland a Week, then 
take it out to drain, make a frefh Salt and 
Water as befote, let it ftand another Week, 
then drain it very well, put it in Spring Water, 
and change it every Day for. three Days,’ then 
{cald it in hard Water ‘till it becomes Green, 
take it out and drain it quite dry, boil a Quart 
of diftilled Vinegar a few Minutes, with two 
or.three Blades of Mace, a Nutmeg fliced, and 
_ a Shalot or two; when it is quite ¢old, pour it 
on your Parfley, with two or three Slices of 
Horfeé-radifh, and keep it for Ufe. 


¢ 
é 


To 


Encuish§ HOUSE-KEEPER,. 331 


To pickle Nafturtians. 


« GatTuer the Nafturtian Berries foon afterthe 
‘Bloffoms are gone off, put them in cold Salt and 
Water, change the Water once a Day for three 
‘Days, make your Pickle of White’ Wine Vine- 
gar, Mace, Nutmeg fliced, Pepper Corns, Salt, 
Shalots, and Horfe-radifh; it requires to be 
made pretty ftrong, as your Pickle is not to be 
boiled; when you have drained them, put 
thém into a Jar, and pour the Pickle over 
them —s—i“$t.. 


To pickle. Radith Pods. 


GATHER your Radifh Pods when they are 
wite young, and put them in Salt and Water 
1 Night, then boil the Salt and: Water they 
- ‘were laid in, and pour it upon your Pods, and 
cover your Jars clofe to keep in the Steam,, 


when it grows: cold, make it boiling hot, and . 


pour,it on again, keep doing {fo ’till your Pods 
are quite Green, then put them-an a Sieve to 


drain, and make a Pickle for them of White | 


Wine Vinegar, with a little Mace,. Ginger, 
Long Pepperj;,and Horfe-radifh, pour it boil- 
ing hot upon} your Pods, when it is almoft cold, 
make your Vinegar twice hot as before, and 
pour it upon them, and tie them down with a 
Bladder, 7 


a | Te 2 — . To 


332 The ExPpERIENCED 


To. pickle Elder Shoots. 


‘GaTHER your Elder Shoots. when they are 
the thicknefs of a Pipe-fhank, pat them into 
Salt and Water all Night, then: put them into 
' Stone Jars in Layers, and betwixt every Layer 
ftrew a little Muftard Seed, and fcraped Horfe- 
Radifh, a few Shalots, a little White Beet Root, 
and Colly-Flower pulled .in fmall Pieces, then 

ur boiling Alegar upon it, and fcald it three 

imes, and it will be like Piccalillo, or Indian 

Pickle; tie a Leather over it, and keep itin a 
dry Place. : 


To pickle Elder Buds, 


Get you Elder Buds when they are the Size 
of Hope Buds, and put them into a ftrong Salt 
and Water for nine Days, and ftir them two or 
three Times a Day, then put them into a Brafs 
Pan, cover them with Vine Leaves, and pour 
the Water on them that they came out of, and 
fet them over a flow Fire ’till they are quite 
Green, then make a Pickle for them of Ale- 
gar, a little Mace, a few Shalots; and fome 

inger fliced, boil them two or three Minutes, 
and pour it upon your Buds; tie them down, 
and keep them in a dry Place for Ufe. 


Ti ” pickle Beet Roots. 


TAKE Red Beet Roots and boil them "till they 
are tender, then take the Skins off, and cut 
: them 


| 
” 


er 


EncLisH HOU SE-KEEPE R. 333 


them in Slices; and gimp them in the Shape 
of Wheels, Flowers, or what Form you pleafe, 
and put them into a Jar, then take as much 
WVanegar' as you think will cover them, and 


boil it with a little Mace,.a Race of Ginger . 


‘Sliced, and a few Slices of Hore-radifh, pour 


at hot upon your Roots, and tie them down.— ~ 


"They are a very pretty Garnifh far made Dithes. 
To pickle Colly-Flowers. 


*"Paxe the clofeft. and whitett Colly-Flowers | 


you can get, and pull them in Bunches, and 
Aipread them on an Earthen Difh, and lay Salt 
a 


over them, let them ftand for three Days. 


to bring out all the Water, then put them in 
Earthen Jars, and pour boiling Salt and Water 
upon them, and let them ftand all Night, then 
drain them on a Hair Sieve, and put them into 
Glafs Jars, and fill up your Jars with diftilled 
Vinegar, and tie them clofe down with Leather. 


4A fecond Way to pickle Colly-Flowers. 


Putt your Colly-Flowers in Bunches as be- . 


fore, and give them juft a fcaJd in Salt and 
Water, {pread them on a Cloth and {prinkle a 
little Salt over them, and throw another Cloth 
upon them ’till they are drained, then lay them 
on Sieves, and dry them in the Sun ’till they 
' are quite dry like Scraps of Leather, put them 
into Jars about half full, and pour hot Vinegar 
(with Spice boiled in it to your Tafte) upon 


them; . 


Te ee eee 


———— 


334 . The -ExprRiBNCED 


them; tic them down with a Bladder, and 
a Leather quite clofe.’ 


NCB. White Cabbage is done the fame Way. 
Ta pickle Red Cabbage. 


_ Ger the fineft and clofeft.Red Cabbage you 

can, and cut it as thin as poffible, then take 
_ fome cold Ale Alegar, and put to it two or 
three Blades of Mace, a few White Pepper 
Corns, and make it pretty flrong with Salt, 

ut your Cabbage into the Alegar as you cut 
“at; tie it clofe down with a Bladder, and a 


Paper over if, and it will be fit for Ufe in“ | 


Day or twa. . | 
Fo pickle Red Cabbage .¢ fecoud Wey. 


Cur the Cabbage as before, and-throw fome 
Salt upon it, and let it ie two or three Days 
till it grows a fine Purple, then drain it from 
the Salt, and put it intq a Pan with Beer Alegar, 
and Spice to your liking, and give it a fcald; 
when it is cold, put it into your Jars, and tte it 
clofe up. : 


To pickle Grapes. 


Get your Grapes when they are pretty large, 
but not too ripe, then put a Layer into a Stone 
Jar, then.a Layer of Vine Leaves, then Grapes 
and Vine Leaves as before, ’till your Jar is full; 
then take two Quarts of Water, half a Pound 

. O 


ENcLisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 335 


of Bay Sak, thefame-of common Salt, boil it 
Lealf an Hour, fkins it well, and take it off to 
fecele, whien it is ‘Milk-warm, pour the clear. 
Liquor upon the Grapes and lay a good deal 
of Vine Leaves upon the Top, and cover it clofe 
up with a Cloth, and fet it upon the Hearth 
for two Days, then take your Grapes out of 
your Jar, and lay them upon a Cloth to drain,. — 
and.-covet them with a Flannel ‘till they are’ . 
qutite dry; then lay them in flat-bottomed: | 

Stone Jars in Layefs, and put‘frefh Vine Leaves 
betwixt every Layer, and a large Handful on 

the Top of the Grapes, then ‘boil a Quart of: 
hard Water, and one Pound of Loaf Sugar, 2 

Quarter of an Hour, fkim it well, and put toi’ 
three'Blades of Mace, a large Nutmeg fliced,. 
ahd two Quarts of White Wine Vinegar, give 

them alla boil together, then take it off and’ 
when it is quite cold, pour it upon your Grapes,” 
and coverthem very well with it; put a Bladder 

upon the Top, and tie a‘ Leather over it, and’ 
keep them in adry Place for Ufe: : : 


MB’ You may pickle them in cold dittilled 
.. “Manegar. . 


To pickle young Artichokes. 


Get your Artichokes as foon as they are 

: formed, and boil ‘them in a ftrong: Salt and 
Water for two or three Minutes, then lay them’ 
upon a Hair Sieve to drain, when they are cold, 
put them into narrow-topped Jars, then take as 
mich White Wine Vinegar as will cover your 

| Artichokes, 


| , 
336 The ExpERIENCED ! 


Artichokes,: boil it with a Blade or two of | 
Mace, a few Slices of Ginger, and a Nutmeg | 
cut thin, pour it on hot, and tie them down. 


Ta pickle Mufkrooms. 


GaTuer the fmalleft-Mufhroonis you can 
et, and put them into Spring Water, chen rub. 
them with a Piece of new Flannel, dipped in Salt, , 
and throw them into cold Spring Water as you 
do them to keep their Colour, then put them. 
into a well tinned Sauce Pan, and throwa 
Handful of Salt over them, cover them clofe 
and fet them over the Fire four or five Minutes, 
or ‘till you fee they are thoroughly hot, and the 
Liquor is drawn out of them, then lay them 
between two clean Cloths ’till they are cold, 
then put them into Glafs Bottles, and fll them 
up with diftilled Vinegar, and put a Blade or 
two of Mace, a Tea Spoonful of eating Oil in 
every Bottle, Cork them clofe up, and fet them 
in a cool Place. 


| 


N. B. If you have not any -diftilled Vinegar, 
you may ufe White Wine Vinegar, or Ale 
Alegar will do, but it muft be boiled with a 
little Mace, Salt, and a few Slices of Ginger, it 
muft go cold before you pour it on your Muth- 
rooms; if your Vinegar or Alegar be 'too fharp, 
it will foften your Mufhrooms, neither will 
they keep fo long, nor be fo White. 


To 


EnciisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 337 


To pickle Onions. 


PEEL the fmalleft Onions you can get, and 
put them into. Salt and Water for nine Days, 
and change the Water every Day, then put 
them into Jars, and pour frefh boiling Salt'and 
Water over them, let them ftand clofe covered 
until they are.cold; then make fome more Salt 


and Water, and pour it boiling hot upon them, 


and when it is cold, put your Onions into a 
Fiair-Sieve to drain; then put them into wide 
-mouthed Bottles, and fill them up with diftilled 


Vinegar, and put into every Bottle a Slice or . 


two of Ginger, one Blade of Mace, and a large 
“Fea-Spoontul of Eating Oil.—It will keep the 
Onions white, then cork them well up. . 


_ N.B, If you like the Tafte of a Bay Leaf, 
put one or two into every Bottle, and as much 


Bay Salt as will lie ona Six-pence. a 


_*To make Indian Pickle, or Piccalillo. 


Get a White Cabbage, one Colly-Flower, a 


few fmall Cucumbers, Radifh Pods, Kidney 
. Beans, and a little Beet Root, or any other 
Thing you commonly pickle; then put them 
on a Hair Sieve, and throw a large Handful 
of Salt over them, and fet them in the Sun- 
fhine, or before the Fire for three Days.to dry, 
when all the Water is run out of them, put 
them into a large Earthen Pot in Layers, and 
betwixt every Layer, put a Handful of brown 
: 7 u , Muftard 


338 The ExpERIENCED 


‘ Muftard Seed, then take as much Ale Alegar 
as you think will cover it, and to every four 
Quarts of Alegar, put an Ounce of Turmerick, 
boil them together, and pour it hot upon your 
Pickle, and let it ftand twelve Days upon the 
Hearth, or ’till the Pickles are all of a bright 
yellow Colour, and moft of the Alegar facked 
up; then take two Quarts of ftrong Ale 
Alegar, one Ounce of Mace, the fame of White 
Pepper, a Quarter of an Ounce of Cloves, the 
fame of Long Pepper and Nutmeg; beat them 
all together, and boil them ten Minutes in your 
Alegar, and pour it hot upon your Pickle, with 
four Ounces of Garlick peeled; tie it clofe 
down, and keep it for Ufe. 


N.B. You may put in frefh Pickles, as the.’ 


Thing comes in Seafon,and keep them covered 
with Vinegar, &t. . 


A Pickle in Imitation of Indian Bamboe. 


Take the young Shoots of Elder, about the 
Beginning or Middle of May, take the Middle 
of the Stalk, the Top is not worth doing, peel 
off the out Rind, and lay them in a ftrong 
Brine of Salt and Beer, one Night, dry them in 
a Cloth fingle, in the mean Time, make a 
Pickle of half Goofberry Vinegar, and half 
Ale Alegar, to every Quart of Pickle put one 
Ounce of Long Pepper, one Ounce of fliced 
Ginger, a few Corns of Jamaica Pepper, a little 
Mace, boil it, and pour it hot upon the Shoots, 
and ftop the Jar clofe, and fet it clofe by the 
Fire Twenty-four Hours, flirring it very often. 


CHAP. 


——_ 


—_ ———A.. 


— 8 —L e—_— Pt _— es, Ao ee rs 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 339 


| CHAP. XVIL | 
Obfervations on keeping Garden-Stuff, and . 


Fruit. 


"TT HE Art of keeping Garden-Stuff, is to 
} keep it in dry Places, for damp will not 
only make them mould, and give again, but 
take off the Flavour, fo it will likewife fpoil 
any Kind of bottled Fruit,.and fet them on 
working; the beft Caution I can give, is to 
keep them as dry as poflible, but. not warm, 
and when you boil any dried Stuff, have Plenty 
of Water, and follow ftrictly the Directions of 
your Receipts. 


To keep Green Peas. 


SHELL any Quantity of Green Peas, and jutt 
give them a boil in as: much Spring Water as 
will cover them, then put them ina Sieve to 
drain, pound the Pods with a little of the 
Water that the Peas were boiled in, and ftrain 
what Juice you can from them, and boil ita 
quarter of an Hour, with a little Salt, and as 
much of the Water as you think will cover 
the Peas in the Bottles, fill your Bottles with 
Peas, and pour: in your Water, when cold put 
rendered Suet over, and tie them down clofe 
with a Bladder, and a Leather over it, and 
keep your Bottles inadry Place. — 


U u 2 | To 


340 ° The ExPpERIENCED: 


To keep Green Peas another Way. . 


GATHER your Peas in the Afternoon on 2 
dry Day, fhell them, and put them into dry 
clean Bottles, Cork them clofe, and tie them 
over with a Bladder; keep them in a cool dry 
Place as before. 


To keep French Beans. 


_ Ler your Beans be gathered quite dry, and 
not too old, lay a Layer of Salt 1n the Bottom 
of an Earthen Jar, then a Layer of Beans, 
then Salt, then Beans, ’till you have filled your 
Jar; let the Salt be at the Top, tie a Piece of 
Leather over them, and lay a Flag on the Top, 
and fet them ‘in a dry Cellar for Ufe. 


To keep French Beans @ fecond Way. 


' Make a ftrong Salt and Water that will bear 
an Egg, and when it boils put in your French 
‘Beans for five or fix Minuets, then lay them on 
‘a Sieve, and put to your Salt and Water a little 
Bay Salt, and boil it ten Minutes, fkim it well, 
and ‘pour it into an Earthen Jar to cool and 
fettle, put your French Beans into narrow- 
topped Jars, and pour. your clear Liquor over 
them; tie them clofe down that no Air can get 
in, and kcep them in a dry Place. 


N. B. Steep them in Plenty.of Spring Water 
the Night before you: ufe them, and boil them 
in hard Water. 

Té 


Encirish HOUSE-KEEPER. 341. 


To keep Muthrooms fo eat like frefh ones. 


' ‘Wasi large Buttons as you would for ftew- 
ing, Jay them on Sieves, with the Stalk up- 
wards, throw over them fome Salt to fetch 
out the Water, when they are drained, put 
them in a Pot, and fet them in a cool Oven for 
an Hour, then take them carefully out, and 
Yay them to cool and drain, boil the Liquor 
that comes out of them with a Blade or two 
of Mace, and boil it half away, put your 
Mufhrooms into a clean Jar. well dried, and 
when the Liquor is cold, cover your Mufh- 
rooms in the Jar with it, and pour over it ren- 
dered Suet, ue a Bladder over it, fet them in a 
dry Clofet, and they. will keep very well moft 


of the Winter.—When you’ ufe them, take. 
them out of the Liquor, pour over them boil- 


ing Milk, and let them ftand an Hour, then. | 


ftew them in the Milk a quarter of an Hour, 
thicken them with Flour, and a large Quantity 
of Butter, and be careful you don’t Oil it, then 
beat the Yolks.of two Eggs with a littleCream, 
and put itin, but don’t let it boul after the Eggs 
are in; lay untoafted Sippets round the Infide 
of the Dith, and ferve them up; they will eat 
near as good as frefh gathered Mufhrooms, if 
they don’t tafte {trong enough, put in a little 
of the Liquor: This is a valuable Liquor, and 
it will give all made Difhes a Flavour like frefh 
Mufhrooms, | 


To 


342°. The ExPERIENCED 


To keep Muthrooms azother Way. 


Scrape large Flaps, peel them, take-out the 
Infide, and boil them in their own Liquor and 
‘a little Salt, then lay them on Tins, and fet 
them ‘in a cool Oven, and repeat it ’till they 
are dry; put them in clean Jars, tie them 
clofe down, and they will.eat very good. . 


Zo dry Artichoke Bottoms. 


Piuck the Artichokes. from the Stalks, (juft 
before they come to their full Growth) it will 
draw out all the Strings from the Bottoms, and 
boil them fo that you can juft pull off the 
Leaves, lay them on Tins, and fet them in a 
cool’: Oven, and repeat it ‘rill they are dry, 
which you may know by holding them u 
againft the Light, and if you can fee throug 
them, they are dry enough; put them in Paper 
- Bags, and hangthem in a dry Place. ~ ° 


To Bottle Damfons to cat as goad as frefb ones. 


_ Gert your Damfons carefully. when they are 

juft turned Colour, and put them into wide- 
mouthed Bottles, Cork them up loofely, and let 
them ftand a Fortnight, then look them over, 
and if you fee any of them mould or fpot, 
take them out and Cork the beft clofe down; 
fet the Bottles in Sand, and they will keep 
till Spring, and be as good as frefh ones. 


To 


a 


‘Encrish HOUSE-KEEPER. 343 - 


To - Bottle Goosberries. 


“ P1cx Green Walnut Goofberries, bottle them, 
_ and fill the Bottles with Spring Water up to the 
Neck, cork them loofely, and fet them in a 
Copper of hot Water, ’till they are hot quite 
through, then take them out, and when they 
are cold, cork them clofe and tie a Bladder | 
over, and fet them in a dry cool Place. | : 


To Bottle ‘Goosberries a fecond. 7. ay. | 


Pur one Ounce of Roach Allum: beat fine, 
into a arge Pan of boiling ‘hard ‘Water, pick 
your Goofberries, and put a few in the Bottom 
of. a Hair Sieve, and hold them in the boiling 
Water, till they turn white ;. then take out the 
Sieve, and fpread the Goofberries betwixt two 
clean Cloths, put more Goofberries in your 
Sieve, and repeat it ’till you have done all your 
Berries, put the Water into a glazed Pot ’till 
next Day, then put your Goofberries: into wide 
mouthed Bottles, and pick out all the cracked 
and broken ones, pour your. Water clear out of 
the Pot, and fill up your Bottles with it ; then 
put in the Corks loofely, and let them ftand for 
a Fortnight, aad if they rife-to the Corks, draw 
them out, and_.let them ftand for two or three 
Days uncorked, then cork’ them clof¢, and they 
will keep two Years. 


» | 


To 


344 .° The ExPERIENCED- 


To Bottke Cranberries. 


. Ger your Cranberries when they are quite 
dry, put them into dry clear Bottles, Cork them 
_ up clofe, and fet them in a dry cool Place. 


To Dottle- Green Currants. 


GaTHER your Currants when the Sun is hot 
upon them, ftrip them from the Stalks, and 
put them into G]afs Bottles, and Cork them 
clofe; fet them over Head in dry Sand, and 
they will Keep ‘till Spring. 


To keep Grapes. 


Cur your Bunches of Grapes, with a Joint 
of the Vine to them, hang them up in a dry 
Room, that the Bunches. do not touch one 
another, and the Air pafs freely betwixt them, 
or they will grow mouldy, and rot; they will 
keep ‘ull the latter End of January, or longer. 


N. B. The Frontiniac Grape is the beft. 


CHAP. XVII, 
Obfervations on Diftilling. | 


I F yourStill be a Limbeck, when you fet it on 
fill che Top with cold Water, and make a 
little Pafte of Flour and Water, and clofe the 

Bottom 


Enciish- HOUSE-KEEPER, 345 


Bottom of your Still well with it, and take 

reat Care that your Fire is not too hot to make 
it boil over, for that will weaken the Strength 
of your Water; you muft change the Water on — 
the Top of your Still often; and never let it be 
fcalding hot, and your Still will drop gra- 
dually off; if you ufe a hot Still, when you put 
on the Top, dip a Cloth in White Lead and Oil, 
and lay it well over the Edges of your Still; and 
a coarfe wet Cloth overthe Top; it requires a 
little Fire under ic, but you muft take Care that 
you keep it very clear; when your Clqth is 
dry, dip it in cold: Water, and lay it on again, 
and if your Still be very hot, wet another Cloth, 
and. ley it round the very Top, and keep it of 
a moderate heat, fo that your Water 1s cold 
when it comes off the Still—If you ufe a Worm 
Salj, keep your Water in the Tub full to the 
Top, and change the Water often, to prevent 
it from growing hot; obferve to let all Simple 
Waters ftand two-or-three Days before you 
work it, to take off the flery Tate of the Sull. 


To diftill Caudle Water. 


TaKkKE Wormwood, Hore-Hound, Feather- © 
few, and Lavender-Cotton, ..of each three 
Handfuls, Rue, Pepper-Mint, and Seville O- 
range Peel, of each a Handful, fteep themin_ , 
_ Red Wine, or the Bottoms of ftrong Beer all - 

Night, then diftill them im a hor Still pretty 
quick, and.it will be a fine Caudle to take as 

Itters, . a | : 


X x To 


346 The ExPERIENCED 


To diftill Milk Water. 


TakE two Handfuls of Spear or Pepper- 
Mint, the fame of Balm, one Handful of | 
Cardus, the fame of Wormwood and one of | 
Angelico, cut them into Lengths a Quarter | 
long, and fteep them in : three Quarts of | 
fkimmed Milk twelve Hours, then diftill it in 
a cold Still, with a flow Fire under it, keep a 
Cloth always, wet over the Top of your Still, to 
Keep the Liquor from boiling over, the next 
Day bottle it, cork it. well, and keep it for Ufe. 


To make Hephnatick Water for the Gravel, 


GaTHER your Thorn Flowers in May, when 
they are in full Bloom, and pick them from 
the Stems and Leaves, and to every half Peck 
of Flowers, take three Quarts of Lifbon Wine, 
and put into ita Quarter of a Pound of Nut- 
megs fliced, and let them fteep in it all Night, — 
then put it into your Still with the Peeps, and 
keep a moderate even Fire'under it, for if you 
let it boil over, it will lofe its Strength. 


To diftill Pepper-Mint Water. 


GET your Pepper-Mint when it is full grown, 
and before it Seeds, cut it in fhort Lengths, 
fill your Still with it, and put it half full 
of Water, then make a good Fire under it, 
and when it is nigh boiling, and the Sull 
begins to drop, if your Fire be too hot, draw 

2 


ee eee 


Enctish HOUSE-KEEPER, 347 


a little out from under it, as you fee it requires, 
to Keep it from boiling over, or your Water 
will be muddy, the flower your Still drops, the 
Water will be clearer and ftronger, but don’t 
{pend it too far, the next Day bottle it, and let 
it-ftand three or four Days, to take the Fire off 
the Still, then cork it well, and it will keep a 
long Time. | 


To diftill Elder-Flower Water. 


Gert your Elder-Flowers, when they are in 


fall Bloom, fhake the Bloffoms off, and to 
every Peck of Flowers, put one Quart of Water, 
and let them fteep in it all Night; then put 
them in a cold Still, and take Care that your 
Water comes cold off the Still, and it will be 
very clear, and draw it no longer than your 
Liquor is good, then put it into Bottles, and 
Cork it in two or three Days, and it will keep 
a Year. 


To diftill Rofe Water. 


GATHER your Red Rofes when they are dry 


and full blown, pick off the Leaves, and to 
every Peck putgone Quart of Water, then put 
them into a cold Still,,and make a flow Fire 
under it, the flower you diftill it the better it 
is, then Bottle it, and Cork it in two or three 
Days Time, and keep it for Ufe, 


N,B. You may diftill Bean-Flowers the fame. 


, . Way, 
°° Xx 2 : 70 


ri 


348  ° The ExPERIENCED 


To diftill Penny-Royal Water. 


Get your Penny-Royal when it is full 
grown, and before it is in Blofflom, then fill 
your cold Still with it, and put it half full of 
Water, make a moderate Fire under it, and 
diftill ic off cold, then put it into Bottles, and 
Cork it in two ‘or three Days Time, and keep 
it for Ufe. 7 : 


To difiill Lavender Water. 


To every twelve Pounds of Lavender-Neps, 
put.one Quart of Water, put them into’a cold 
Sull, and make a flow Fire under it, and diftill 
it off very flow, and put it into a Pot ’till you 
have diftilled all your Water, then clean your 
Still well out, and put your Lavender Water 
into it, and diftill ic off as flow as before, then 
put it into Botrles, and Cork it well. : 


To diftill Spirics of Wine. 


Take the Bottoms of ftrong Beer, and any 
Kind of Wines, put them into a hot Still about 
three Parts full, then make a very flow Fire 
under it, and if you don’t take great Care to 
kécep it moderate, it will bo#l over, for the 
Body is fo ftrong, that it will rife to the Top 
of theStill; the flower you diftill it the ftronger 
your Spirit will be, put it into an Earthen Pot 
till you have done: diftilling, then clean your 
Still well out, and put the Spirit into it, and 
diftill ic flow as before, and make it as ftrong 
as to burn in your Lamp, then Bottle it, and 
Cork it well, and keep it for Ufe, A 


“> 


Every Thing in SEASON in every Month 


of the YEAR. 
JANUAR Y. 


Sturgeon 

Smelts 

Whitings 
Lobfters - 

Crabs 

Prawns e 


Oyfters 
MEAT. 
Beef 


Mutton 

Veal 

Houfe-Lamb 

Pork 
POULTRY, &c. 

Partridge : ame 

Hare 


Rabbits 
Woodcocks 
Snipes 
Turkeys 
Capons 
Pullets 
Fowls 
Chickens 
Tame Pigeons 

ROOTS, &e. 
Cabbage 
Savoys 
Colewort 
Sprouts ° 
Purple and White Brocol 
Spinage 
Cardoons 
Beets 
Parfley 
Sorrel 
Chervil 
Celery 
Endive 
Lettices 
Creffes 4 
Muftard 
Rape 
Radifh 
Turnips 
Tarragon 
Mint | 

Cucumbers 


340 The ExpERIENCED 


Cucumbers in Hot-Houfes 
Thyme 

Savory | 
Pot-Marjoram — 
Hyfop 

Sage 

Parfnips - 
Carrots 

Turnips 

Potatoes 

Scorjonera 

Skirrets 

Salfifie 


Medlars 
- Grapes - 


' To be had, though not inSeafon. 


Jerufalem Artichokes . 


Nuts 
Almonds 
Services 


FEBRUARY. 


FISH. 


Sturgeon 
Flounders 
Plaice 
Turbot 
Thornback 
Skate 


Lampreys 
Craw-fith 
MEAT. 


Veal ; 
Houfe-Lamb ~ 
Pork 


POULTRY, Be. 


“Turkeys 


Capons ote 

Pullets 

Fowls 

Chickens _ 

Pigeons 

Pheafants 

Partridge 

Woodcocks 

Snipes 

Hares 

Tame Rabbits 
RO 


OT S, &c, 
Cabbage 
Savoys 
Colewort 
Sprouts 
Purple and White Brocoli 
Cardoons 
ts 

Parfley 
Chervil 
Endive 
Sorrel 
Celery 
Chard Beets 
Lettices 
Crefies 
Naitard 

ape 

Radifhes 


I i tn eee ac 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 35 


Radithes Parfnips So ) 
Turnips ' Potatoes te 
‘Tarragons <3: |! Onions Co aa 
Mint vo . Leeks be ot | 
Burnet - Shalots , ot | 
Tanfey : Garlick 2? 
Thyme Rocombole en 
Savory ote" Salfifie ma, 
Marjoram.- pros Skirret , = ok | 
Alfo may be had, . Scorzonera ae | 
Forced Radifhes" ‘  Jerufalem Artichokes:' . 
Cucumbers. = =. FRUIT. 
Afparagus Pears , 
Kidney Beans : - -- Apples 
Carrots ro ' Grapes 
Turnips 7 
M°: A R CC H. 
MEAT. Plaice 
Beef Flounders 
Mutton ' ‘  Lobfters ery 
Veal ; ‘Crabs 7 
Houfe-Lamb 7 . Craw-fifh pet 
Pork , . Prawns 
POULTRY,  &e, ROOTS, &.: | 
Turkeys. ; - Carrots r | 
Pullets of Turnips ae | 
Capons Parfnips cot } 
Fowls : '  Jerufalem Artichokes ~"' ' 
Chickens ‘ Onions cto? : 
Ducklings ' Garlick has 
Pigeons |  §halots tie, 
Tame Rabbits — ‘ +» Coleworts i od 
FISH. — ..--  .Borecole ar 
Carp Cabbages| Witt" 
Tench . Swoys .- > se } 
Eels a Spinage ae 
Mullets Brocoli st 
Soles" - +  (Cardoons . SF | 
Whitings a Beets s 
Turbot Pa ‘ 
Thornback Fennel 
Skate Celery 


Endive | 


352. The Exp RiENCED 


La 


FISH. 


Prawns 
POULTRY, &e. 
Pullets 
Fowls 
Chickens 
- Ducklings 
Pigeons 


Burnet 
Thyme 
Winter-Savory 
Pot-Marjoram 


Apples 
Forced Strawberries 


IL. 


Rabbits 
Levercts 
ROQTS, &e. 
Colewort 
Sprouts 
Brocoli 
Spinage 
Fennel 
Parfley 
Chervil 
Young Onions 
Celery 
Endive 
Sorrel 
Burnet 
Tarragon 
Radifhes ’ 
Lettices 
All Sorts of {mall Salad 
Thyme 
All Sorts of Pot-Herbs 
FRUIT. 
Apples 
Pears 
Forced Cherries and ) Apricons 
for Tarts 


MA Y. 


ENGLISH 
M 
F 1S-H., 
Carp 
Tench 
Eels 
Trout 
Chubb 
Salmon 
Soles 
Turbot 
Herrings 
Smelts 
Lobfters 
Crawfith 


Crabs 
Prawns 


Beef 
Mutton 
Veal 
Lamb 


MEAT. 


POULTRY, &c. 


Pullets 
Fowls 
Chickens 
Green Geefe - 
Ducklings | 
Turkey Poults 
Rabbits 
. Leverets 
ROOTS, &c. 
Early Potatoes 
Carrots 
Turneps 


A Y. 


HOUSE-KEEPER. 353 


Radifhes 
Early Cabbages 
Collyflowers 
Artichokes 
Spinage 
Parfley 
Sorrel . 
Balm 

Mint 
Purflane 
Fennel 
Lettices 
Crefies 
Muftard 


_ All Sorts of {mall Sallad Herbs 


Thyme 


_ Savo 


ry 

All other fweet Herbs 

Peas 

Beans 

Kidney Beans 

Afparagus 

Tragopogon 

Cucumbers &c. &c. 
RUIT. 

Pears 

Apples 

Strawberries 

Cherries 

And Mellons 

With Green Apricots 

Gootberries 

And Currants for Tarts 


N E. 


Buck Venifon 
POULTRY, &c. 

Fowls 

Pullets 

Chickens 


Yy Green 


354 ‘The 


Green Geefe 
Ducklings 
Turkey Poults 
Plovers 
Wheat Ears 
Leverets 
Rabbits 
FISH. 
Trout 
Carp 
Tench 
Pike 
Fels 
Salmon 
Soles 
Turbot 
Mullets 
Mackerel — 
Herrings 
Smelts 
Lobfters 
 Crawfith 
Prawns 


ROOTS, &c. 


Carrots 
Turnips 
Potatoes 
Parfnips 
ifhes 


J 


MEAT: 


‘Beef 

Mutton 

Veal 

Lamb 

Buck Venifon 


POULTRY. . 


Pullets 
Fowls 
Chickens 
Pigeons 


Green Geefe 


EXPERIENCED 


Onions 

Beans 

Feafe 

Aitpara 
Kidney Beans 
Artichokes 
Cucumbers 
Lettice 
Spinage 
Parfley 


All other {mall Sallading 


Thyme 


All ‘Sorts of Pot Herbs 


FRUIT. 
Cherries 
Strawberries 
Goofberries 
Currants 
Mafculine Apricots 
Apples 
Pears 


Pine Apples 


L Y. 
Ducklin 


Turkey Poults 


Ducks 
Young Partridges 


. Pheafants 


Haddocks 


Mulkets 


EnctisH HOUSE-KEEPER.’ 355° 


- Mullets 
Mackerel 
Herrings 
Soles 
Plaice 
Flounders 
Scate 
Thornback 
Salmon 
Carp 
Tench 
Pike 

Eels 
Lobfters 


Prawns 


Carrots 
Turnips 
Potatoes 
Radithes 
Onions 
Garlick 
Rocombole 
Scorzinera 
Salfifie 
Mufhrooms 
Collyflowers 
Cabbages 
Sprouts © 


" Buck Venifon 


POULTRY, &e, 


Pullets 

Fowls 
Chickens 
Green Geefe 
Turkey Poults 


&ce. 


Artichokes" 

Celery 

Endiye . 

Finocha 

Chervil 

Sorrel 

Purflane 

Lettice 

Crefiles 

All Sorts of fmall Sallad Heit 
Mint 

Balm 

Thyme 

All other Pot Herbs 
Peafe 

Beans 


_ Kidney Beans 


FRUIT. 
Pears 
Apples 
Cherries 
Peaches 
Neétarines 
Plumbs 
Apricots 
Gootberries 
Strawberries 
Rafpberries 


~ Mellons 


Pine Apples 


U0 S T.. 


Ducklings 

Leverets 

Rabbits ° 
Pigeon 

Pheafants 

Wild Ducks 

Wheat Ears 


Plovers 
FIS H. 
Cod | 
Haddock 
Flounders 


Yy2 Place 


356 The ExPERIENCED 


Plaice 
Skate 
Thornback 
. Mallets 
Mackerels 
Herrings 
P; 


{ters 
Oy ROOTS, &c, 
Carrots 
Turnips 
Potatoes 
: Radithes 
Onions 
Garlick 
Shaliots 
Scorzonera 
Salfifie 
Peas 
Reans 
Kidney Beans 
WMufhrooms 
Artichokes 
Cabbage 


S E P T 


MEAT. 
Beef 
Veal 
Mutton 
Lamb 
Pork 
Buck Venifon 


POULTRY, &c, 


Geefe 
Turkieg 
Pullets 
Fowls 


Colly-Flower 
Sprouts 
Beets 

Celery 
Endive 
Finocha 


All Sorts of {mall Sallad 

Thyme 

Savo 

Marjoram 

All Sorts of fweet Herbs 
FRUIT. 

Peach 

Neétarines 

Plumbs 

Cherries 

Apples 

Pears 

Grapes 

Figs 

Filberts 

Mulberries 

Strawberries 

Goofberries 

Currants 

Mellons 

Pine Apples 


MBER, 


Chickens 
Ducks 
Teals 
Pigeons 
Larks 
Hares 
Rabbits 
Pheafants 
Partridges 


Cod 
Haddock 


IS H. 


' Flounders 


EncitisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 357 


Flounders 
Plaice 
Thornbacks 
Skate 


ers 
Ort R O O T S, &c, 
Carrots 
Turnips 
Potatoes 
Shalots 
Onions 
Lecks 
Garlick 
Scorzonera 
Salfifie 
Peas 
Beans 
Kidney Beans 
Muthrooms 
Artichokes 
Cabbages 
Sprouts 


O C T 


MEAT, 
Beef 
Mutton 
Lamb 
Veal 
Pork 
Doe Venifon 
POULTRY, &c. 
Geefe 
Turkies 
Pigeons 
Pullets 
Fowls 


Colly-Flowers 

Cardoons 

Endive 

Celery 

Parfley 

Finocha . 

Lettices, and all Sorts of {mall 
Sallads 


Thyme, and all Sorts of Soup 

Herbs 
FRUIT. 

Peaches 

Plumbs 

Apples 

Pears 

Grapes 

Walnuts 

Filberts 

Hazel-nuts 

Medlars 
uinces 

Peet 

Currants 

Morello Cherries 

Mellons 

Pine Apples 


OBER. 


Chickens 
Rabbits 
Wild Ducks 
Teals 
Widgeons 
‘Woodcocks 
Snipes 
Larks 
Dotterels 
Hares 
Pheafants 
Partridges 

, FUJI S H. 


$53 The ExpERIENCED 


FISH. 
Dorees 
Holobetr 
Berbet 
Smelts 
Brills 
Gudgeone 
Pike 
Carp 
Tench 
Perch 
Salmon Trout 
Lobfters 
Cockles 
Muicles 
ers . 
Ort ROOTS, &c, 
Cabbages 
Sprouts 
Colly-Flowers° 
Artichokes 
Carrots 
Parfnips 
Turnips 
Potataes 
Skirrets 
Salfifie 
Scorzonera 


Lecks 


Shalots 

Garlick 

Rocombole 

Celery 

Endive 

Cardoons 

Chervil . 

Finocha 

Chardbeets 

Corn Sallad 

Lettice 

All Sorts of young Sallad 

Thyme 

Savory 

AllSorts of Pot Herbs 
FRUIT. 

Peaches 

Grapes 

Figs 


“Medlars 


Services 
Quinces , 
Black and White Bullace 
Walnuts 

Filberts 

Hazel-nuts 

Pears 


A pples 


NOVEM BER, 


MEAT, 
Beef 
Mutton . 
Veal 
Houfe-Lamb 
Doe Venifon 


POULTRY, &c. 


Geefe 

Turkies 

Fowls . 
Chickens 

Pullets 


Pigeons 
Wild Ducks 
Teals 
Widgeons 
a codcocks 
nipes 
Larks 
Dotterels 
Hares 
Rabbits 
Partridges 
Pheafants 


FISH. 


ne 


Enchish HOUSE-KEEPER. 59 


FISH. Jerufalem Artichokes 
Gurnets Cabbages 
Dorees Colly-Flowers 
Holobets Savoys 
Bearbets Sprouts 
Salmon Colewort 
Salmon Trout Spinage 
Smelts Chard Beets 
Carp Cardoons 
Pike Parfley 
Tench Crefles 
Gudgeons Endive 
Lobiters phervil 
{ters ; ttic 
Cokin Crefles. 
Mutfcles All Sorts of {mall Sallad Herbs 
ROOTS, &e. Thyme, and all other Pot Herbs 
Carrots FRU ° 
Turnips . Pears 
Parf{nips . Apples 
Potatoes Bullace 
Skirret Chefnuts 
Salfifie Hazel-nuts 
Scorzonera Walnuts 
Onions Medlars _ 
seeks Services 
Shalots Grapes 
Rotombole . 
D- B C EM BE RR. 
MEAT, Smelts 
Beef Cod 
Mutton , Codlings 
Veal Soles 
Houfe-Lamb | Carp | 
Pork | Gudgeon 
Doe Venifon Eels 
S H. Cockles 
Turbot - Mufcles 
Gurnets Oyfters 
Sturgeon POULTRY, &c. 
Dorees Geefe 
olobets Turkies 


Bearbet | Pullets 


360 The ExPERIENCED 


‘Widgeons 
Dotterels 
_ Partridges 
Pheafants 
ROOTS, &. 
Cabbages : 
Savoys 
Purple and White Brocoli 
Carrots 
Parfnips 
Turnips 
Potatoes 
Skirrets 
Scorzonera 
Salfifie 


All Sorts of {mall Sallad 

Cardoons 

Forced Afparagus 

Thyme 

All Sorts of Pot-Herbs 
FRUIT. 

Apples 

Pears 

Medlars 

Services 

Chefnuts 

Walnuts 

Hazel-nuts 


Grapes 


Direthions 


__ Fish. Sermo 


Course 


ie 


a: ¥ being a Month when Enter- 
ats are moft ufed, and moft wanted, 
nat Motive I have drawn my Dinner 
on of the Year, and hope it will be 
to my worthy Friends; not ‘that I 
44 Jeaft Pretenfion to confine any Lady 

articular Number of Difhes, but to 
st of them what Number they pleafe ; 
¢ in Seafon, and moft of them to be got 
Wmuch Difficulty; as 1 from long: Ex- 
w: can tell what a troublefome Tafk it is 
HW: a Bill of Fare to be in Propriety, and 
° re two Things of the fame Kind; and 
") defirous of rendering it eafy for the 
ey have made it my Study to fet out the 
*' in as elegant a Manner as lies in my 
, and in the modern Tafte; but finding 


ff ¥ Houfekeepeers, in placing the Dithes 
A tithe Table, obliged me to have twoCopper- 
(ee 3 as I am very unwilling to leave even 
“yeakeft Capacity in the dark, it being my 
d@eft Study to render my whole Work both 
2 and eafy. As to French Cooks and old 
serienced Houfekeepers, they have no Occa- 
‘for my Afliftance, it is not for them’! look 
any Applaufe:. I have not engraved a Cop- 
Plate for a third Courfe, or a cold Collation, 
; that generally confifts of Things extra- 
| ZZ: | vagant; 


— 


I 
i 
h 


362 The ExPERIENCED 


vagant ; but I have endeavoured to fet outa 
Defert of Sweetmeats, which the induftrious 
Houfekeeper may lay upin Summer, ata {mall 
Expence, and when. added to what little Fruit 
is then in Seafon, will make a pretty Ap- 
‘pearance after the Cloth is drawn, and be ea- 
tertaining to the Company ;* before you draw 
your Cloth, have all your.Sweetmeats and 
Fruits difhed up in China Difhes, or Fruit 
- Bafkets ; and as many Difhes as you have in 
one Courfe, fo many Bafkets ‘or Plates your De- 
fert muft have; and as my Bill of Fare x 
twenty-five in each Courfe, fo muft your Defeat 
be of the fame Number, and fet outin the fame 
‘Manner, and as Ice is very often plentiful at 
that Time, it will be eafy to make five different | 
ices for the middle, either to be ferved upon | 
a Frame or without, with four Plates of dried 
Fruit round them; Apricots, Green Gages, | 
Grapes and Pears ; the four outward Corners 
Piftacho Nuts, Prunelloes, Oranges, and Olives; 
The four Squares, Nonpareils, Pears, Walnuts, 
and Filberts; the two in the Centre betwixt the 
-Top and Bottom, Chefnuts, and Portu 
Plumbs; for fix long Difhes, Pine Apples, French 
-Plumbs, and the four Brandy Fruits, which 1s. 
Peaches, Nectarines, Apricots and Cherries. 


ee ee; — 


INDE 


ery asta Eovuak haat 
dat ets ager yy ye Fa roid 
wal ota suqgod nek 
§ UR DOM oy 
ti apyils 
G OMISTARS 
aT NS 
5 yovers 

seerarr 


ald 


binwsine 
rey” 


uly! 
uy 
pb de 


~ 


-— ht ph . 7 2 ew es mee . - al me carte mn 5 we Ewe 20.935 ee ee ee ee eee eee 
ewes =~ ewe owe a we ere we tse e ee aes et a aS 
= 2 o 
a 
, 
» h » Ll 
v 
"A 
A 
J 
- Soot ut . i fi 
~ ’ © 
e oe * 1 * . 
ere : j x9) a 
ot #& . id : ae Ol way J fs 
, e 
‘ , ? ‘ /, » aba 85 ess 
a : ° i ® , . ; ° 
, 1, ‘+ See, 
wf 
o~ 
\ ‘ ° . 
? ane y ot” 
e . oe a « - 
” Live BD wag . . 
‘ « t 
a o aad } 
| 
| 1 a ee i er 
| 5 a ad 
| . , € re ce if 
. ‘ Se 
- s 
) . 
¢ 
| a 
, ° . a) toe 
rf . ‘ . se atoie Z Reg ' 
i av . 
) . e ~ 7 . 
i . mt ‘ ‘ i 
‘ v 
a , J 
‘ “ hog." 3 
e 
. ' s? ‘ , . Woot. sd deat 
. ¢ 
o ‘ . ‘ . .* 4 J 
: t - a | 
, . ee 
. : 
' « 
‘ ' rs: 
a a 4 “ . . . * 
i 4 . ’ +¥ Cie e-t¢ « 
iy 
a . ’ 
. ‘Tt a gate id 
« . J ‘1 $ugtoe 
Y 
' ‘ide a 
» . 
. & . oe feu 
Y , 
vt . do? t 
e 
. ' tos 
Y bad , 
cog tosaitay ‘ 
rote (ty Dedastee 
- 
« a} tos. . rit ns ir ’ 


‘ 4 “ * tr? - vd ‘ 
. _ 4 avGiodes 
. 7 a tae OF 
s ” ac. = * da dty Sa = 
* 
wf a 


~ ao 


I N D EB XO 


Page Page 
Beef Round to force 281 
CID for Punch 313 Rump to ftew 102 
Ale to mull 289 Steaks to broil 60. 
Almonds to burn 220 A good Way to fry 2 & 
Almond Iceing for Bride Beef Steaks X 
Cakes | | 243 Steaks to drefs a com- 61 
Amulet to make 267 mon Way 
Angelica to canddy 224 tohangaSurloin 2 .¢ 
Apple-Sauce 47 to roaft av3 
Apricotstodry 223 Tea = 290 
Apricot Marmalade 202 Bifcuitscommontgmake 253 
Pafte 215 ~ Drops . 253 
to preferve 209 ~ Lemonto make = 252 
‘A fparagus to boil 68 Spanifh, tomake 252 
Artichokes to boil 68 Spunge to make 252 
Artichoke Bottoms, to? , «« Brandy Cherry 315 
drefs with Eggs Orange 315 
Bottoms, to boil white 73 _ Rafpberry 314 
Bottoms to dry 342 Brawn Mock 279 
Artichokes to pickle ‘335 Bread French 255 
Brocoli to boil 67 
Bacon to Salt 284 and Eggs 266 
Do. a Gamon to roaft 101 Browning for madeDifhes 3 
Beans French to drefs 68 Bullace Cheefe 214 
French to keep 340 Butterto clarify 40 
A fecond Way 340. Fairy 235 
Windfor to drefs 69 Blomange, clear 171 
Beef Alamode 103 ' afecond Way = 171 
Brifket Alaroyal 104 a third Way 171 
to Collar flat Ribs - 270 C 
to force infideSurlgin 101 Cabbage to boil | 66 
Fricando 102 Cakes Apricot tomake 220 
to Hath 62 Bath "249 
Heart larded 105 Brides * 242 
Heart-Mock Hare 1os Cake without Butter 251 
Olives to make 104 Cream 250 
Porcupine flatRibs 103 Currant clear 217 
. Porcupine to eat cold 275 Lemon 247 


222 Cake 


356 The ExPERIENCED 


Plaice 
Skate 
Thornback 


. Mullets 


Mackerels | 

Herrings 

Pike 

Carp 

Eels 

Lobfters 

Crawfifh 

Prawns 
{ters 

OF ROOTS, &c, 

Carrots 

Turnips 

Potatoes 


' Radithes 


Onions 
Garlick 
Shaliots 
Scorzonera 
Salfifie 

Peas 

Beans 
Kidney Beans 
Mufhrooms 
Artichokes 
Cabbage 


SEPT E 


MEAT. 
Beef 
Veal 
Mutton 
Lamb 
Pork 
Buck Venifon 
POULTRY, rc, 


‘Geefe 


Turkieg 
Pullets | 
Fowls 


Colly-Flower 

Sprouts 

Beets 

Celery 

Endive © 

Finocha2 

Parfley 

Lettice 

All Sorts of fmall Sallad 

Thyme 

Savory 

Marjoram 

All Sorts of fweet Herbs 
FRUIT. 

Peach 

Neé¢tarines 

Plumbs 

Cherries 

Apples 

Pears 


Grapes 


Figs 

Filberts 
Mulberries 
Strawberries 
Goojberries 
Currants 
Mellons 
Pine Apples 


MBER, 


Chickens 
Ducks 
Teals 
Pigeons 
Larks 


Haddock 


EncitisH HOUSE-KEEPER. 357 


Flounders 
Plaice 
"Thornbacks 
Skate 

Soles 
Smelts 
Salmon 

a 

Tench 
Pike 
Lobfters 

Oy {ters 

ROOTS, &c, 

Carrots 
‘Turnips 
Potatoes 
Shalots 
Onions 
Leeks 
Garlick 
Scorzonera 
Salfifie 

Peas 

Beans 
Kidney Beans 
Mufhrooms 
Artichokes 
Cabbages 
Sprouts 


O C T 


MEAT, 

Beef 
Mutton 
Lamb 
Veal 
Pork 
Doe Venifon 

POULTRY, &ec, 
Geefe 
Turkies 
Pigeons 
Pullets 
 Fowls 


Colly-Flowers 

Cardoons 

Endive 

Celery 

Parfley 

Finocha . 

Lettices, and ali Sorts of {mali 
Sallads 


Thyme, and all Sorts of Soup 

Herbs 
FRUIT. 

Peaches 

Plumbs 

Apples 

Pers 

Grapes 

Walnuts 

Filberts 

Hazel-nuts 

Medlars 
uinces 

5 eee 

Currants 

Morello Cherries 

Mellons 

Pine Apples 


OBER. 


Chickens 
Rabbits 
Wild Ducks 
Teals 
Widgeons 
Woodcocks 
Snipes 
Larks 
Dotterels 
Hares 
Pheafants 
Partridges 
FISH. 


at Page Page 
Fowls to hafh,- - x ., 65 Herrings to 7, eon. 25 
darge 0 nontt «53 
Fritters Applet make 142 Jams BlackCareané tojiake I 9 
> ‘bomtsen. ditto, 141 Rel B Gootberry, 189 
¢ Glaty dino 159 e pher: 188 
r PlumbwibRice do. 161 White ee - 189 
“ .Rafpherry ditto 160 Strawberry tet 189 
Tanfey ditto 160 Iceing for Tarts ~~ - 126 
Froitin Jelly: . 173 a fecond Way | 126 
G .. Almond for! ide 
Gingee to candy 221 Cake, § 243 
Gefers to make 143 Su ar for Bride 
Goote to boil 45 244 
Giblets to few. |. - 46 Jelly Cals Foo’ to make 176 
Green Goofe tg roatt 46 | Colouring’ for 169 
Goofe te marinate. LU Craw-fifh in Savory 260 
7: -Sunbbie to roaft | 47 Birds in Savory 259 
Gootberries to. bortle, 343 Chickens in Savory 258 
‘to -bortle a BlackCurrant tomake 187 
. , ad Way 343 Red Currant 187 
Gootberry Pafte 216 White Currant 189 
Grapes to keep . 344 Fifh Pond ia | 169 
Gravy to draw I gilded Fifth | 174 
to. make 4] Fruitin 173 
Good Green. to make 172 Hartfhorn to make 186 
Green Gages tq dry 219 Hen and Chickens in 174 
Gruel Barley to make, = 294 Hen’s Nett | 150 
Groat 292 floating [land . 176 
‘ ago 293 ditto a fecond Way 197 
Water . 294 rocky Ilan 177 
H Moon and tars in 179 
Haddocks to broil 27 Pidgeons in favory 259 
| afecond Way 28 _ Smelts in favory 260 
Han to boil - 59 Tranfparent Pudding 175 
co roaft 101 L 
to falt 283 Lamb Bits to drefs 258 
to fmoke 283 Head and_ Parti- 
Hare Florendine 125 nance to drefs 3% 
“to hath | 66 Le bailed and Loin 
to jug 121 Tied ©. of 
_ to roatt. 8 a Quarter, ‘of forced 97 
* to ftew . 120 Stones fricafied 98 
Herrimgs to bake 26 Lampreys to an r 29 
to boil 25 to roait 23 
Larks 


a} 


¢ N! D! 


wn. Page 
Larks to roaft. | 87 
. Lemonade to ake —-393 
Lemon Drops, | 223 
kle 2 
Peel to ‘candy 225 
Loaf Drunkexi‘to’ make © " 240 
Oyfter 32 
Princes, | ‘240 
Royat "239 
Lobfiers to boil | 32 
_ ta roaft 33 
“M 
Maccaroni, with per-2 .¢, 
mafant Cheefe to drefs § * 

Macecaroons to make 251 
Mackarel to boil 24 

Malt Liquors ‘to refine 310 . 
Marmalade Apricot tomake 202, 
' Orange 200° 

Quince 20% 


Tranfparent 201 
Mead Cowflip to make 312 


Sack Zur 
Wallnut 312 
Midcalf to ‘acefs’ 88 
Mock Brawn to make 279 
Turtle ( a1 
Turtle a zd Way = 73 
Moonshine to make 178 
Mufhroom ‘Loaves 264 
‘tokeep to eat 
_ Mike freth ; 341 


Ditto a 2d'Way 342 
* ‘Powder tomake 318 


to ragoo 264 

.to ftew 263 

- -Maull’d Ale . 289 
ine 289 


ditto 4 fecond Way 290 
Mutton a Bafque to make 96 
_a Breaft to ¢ollar 279 

4 Breaft to grill 93 

Broth tomake 2901 

to hath 63 


EK’ xX, N 
Page 
Mutton to harrico’’: + - - 93 
kabob'd to make oI 
Leg to forge / fy, "94 
Le} ax drets,call’d 
Oxford: jobh ee 
Leg to-fal:.. #0 
Le Lt,. an bad 
ee Sauce bs 3 
Leg to dret{s, tavat 
like Venifon 


Neck to harrxo —s 8g 
Neck to make .?-> 
FrenchSteaks df§ 97 
Neck toeatlike‘?: ! 
Vennifon 3 99 
Shoulder bel 
Cellery Sauce 
Shoulder boil'd, 
call'd Hen ande 92 
Chickens 
Shoulder boiled, 
Onion Sauce 
Shoulder furpriz’d 91 
Steaks to broil 64 
O ° 


Obfervations on boiling and 
roafting Beéf, Mutton, > 41 
Veal, and Lamb 

on Cakes 242 
on Creams, 
Cuftards,> 226 
&e, - oy 
on Decora-) ~ 
tions for 162 
a Table . 
on Diftilling 344 
on dreffing — 
Fifth 
ondrying & 
ay ying arg 
on made Didhes 70 
on Pies and? | 
Pafte 125 


Obfervations 


vi I. N D 


_ Page 
Obfervations on Pofiets, 86 
Gruels &c. 

on Potting 
Eales § 269 
on roafting 
wild, and ¢ 43 
tame Fowls 
on roafting 
Pi aaa 43 
on Pickling 321 
on Preferving 185 
‘on Puddings 144 


on Wines, 
Cnc ee 295 
on Soups, I 
on keeping 
Garden , 
Stuff me 339 * 
' Fruit 
Orange Brandy to make 315 
Chips to Candy 222 
Jelly to make ’ 186 
Marmalade 200 
Peel to candy 225 
Ox Palets to frycandy 107 
.to fricafey 107 
Oyk te ftew 106 
crs to I 
Oyfter Soup to make 2 
to {fcolop 31 
to ftew, and all 
Kinds of Shellfith ‘ 3? 
Ozyat to make 312 
Panada favory 268 
‘Paniada fweet 294 
Pancakes Batter 144 
Clary 144 
Cream 143 
_ Water. 143 
Parfnips to boil - 69 
Pafte Apricot to make a21¢ 
Cold for Difh Pies 127 


Red & white Currants 217 
for Cuftards 
for Goole Pye 


KE X. 

Page 
Pafte Gootbery 216 
Crifp for ‘Tarts 125 
Light for Tarts 126 
Rafpberry 216 

Pafty a Venifon 13 
Partridge to hafh 65 
in Panes 11g 
to ftew 119g 
to ftewa2d Way 120 
to roaft 5§ 
Pafties common to make 141% 
to fry 140 
Patties favory to make 139 
{weet 14! 
Peas green to boil 69 
to keep -339 
tokeepa2d Way 340 
to ftew with Lettice 265 
Peaches to dry 224 
Pears to ftew 182 
Perch to fry. 29 
in Water fokey 29 
Pheafant to roatt 55 
Pickle Indian to make 337 

in imitation of 2 . 

Bamboe > 338 
Pickle Artichokes 335 
Baeberries 330 
red Beet Root 332 
red Cabbage 334 
red Cabbage ad Way 334 
white Cabbage 333 
Collyflowers 333 
Collyflowere 2d Way 333 
Cockles 38 
Codlins 325 
Cucumbers 322 
Cucumbers.2d Way 322 
Cucumbers in Slices 323 
Elder Buds 332 
Elder Shoots 332 
Grapes 334 
Kidney Beans 3257 
Mangoes 323 


I N D €E X. vik, 


mS Page Page 
| Pickle Mackarel 35 Pork Steaks to broil 2 
| Mufhrooms 336 Poffets Ale to make 288 
| ' Nafturtiuns 331 Almond to make 287 
Onions 337 Brandy 286 
Oyfters 34 Lemon 28% 
Parfley 330 ‘ ‘Orange 287 . 
Pork . 285 Sack 286 
Radifh Buds 331 Wine 288 
Salmon, Newcaf- Potatoes to {collop 263 
tle Way 33 Pot Beef to 269 
Samphire 326 Beef to eat like Venifon 270 
Shrimps 40 all kinds of {mall Birds 275 
Smelts : 37 Char 38 
Walnuts black 326 Fels 39 
Dittoa2d Way 327 Ham with Chickens 273 
Ditto green 329 Hare 273 
Ditto Olive-colour 327 Lampreys 39 
Ditto white 328 Lobfters 40 
Pigs Chaps to fale 284 Moor Game 274 
Pig to barbicue 99 Ox Cheek  27¢ 
to drefs in imitation Pigeons 276 
of Lamb 99 Salmon 36 
Feet and Ears ¥ Ditto a 2d Way 36 | 
256 Shri 
raggoo rimps 40 
Feet and Ears to foufe 282 Smelts or Sparlings 37 
Pettytoes to drefs 45 Tongues 293 
to roaft 43 '  Woodcocks . 274 ; 
- Pigeons to boil 56  —- Veal 294, ) 
to boil with Bacon 118 Marbled Veal 292 | 
to boil in Rice 116 Venifon 271 
to broil 116. Preferve Apricots 209 
comporte 114 Apricots Green 194 
to fricando 117 Barberrie3 in 
to fricafey 118 Bunches 206 
in a Hole 116 Barderries for Tarts 206 
juged 117 Bullace Cheefe 214 
to roaft 57 Cherries in Brandy 193 
in favory Jelly 25q Morello Cherries 205 
to tranfmogrify 115 Codlingstokeep 
Pike to boil, -with a Pud- all the Year "94 
ding in the Belly 21 Cucumbers. 192 
Pork to barbicue 100 Currants red in 2 
Chine to tuff _ 101 Bunches ; 199 
to pickle 285 COC Currants whitc 
to falt 285 inBunches § 19! 


Aaa Prcferve 


Vl, I N 
Page 
Preferve Black Currant Rob 215 
Currants for Tarts 191 
Damfons 207 
Elder Rob 214 
Grapes in Brandy 193 
Green Gages é 1 
Plumbs 97 
Green Goofberries 195 
Red Goofberries 203 
Goofberries in 
, Imitation of >: 195 
’ Hops 
Lemons carved 212 
Do. in Jelly 212 
Magnum Bo- 20 
num Plumbs 7 
nges 211 
Do. carved 210 
Do. in Jelly 21 
Do. with Mar- ' 
malade 2t3 
Peaches 209 
Golden Pippins 193 
Kentifh Pippins 193 
Plumbs Green- 
gage to dry aro 
Plumbs bonum 
Magnum 2079 
Pine Apples . 202 
Quinces whole = 210 
Do.in Quarter 210 
red Rafberries 205 
white ditto 205 
Sloe Cheefe 214 
Sprigs grecn 197 
Strawberrieswhole 204 
Wine Sours 208 
Walnuts black 198 
Walnuts green 199 
Walnuts white 200 
Puddings Apricot 149 
Bread 148 
Calf’s-feet 147 
little Citron 152 
153 


green Codling 


D 


E KR. 
Pag= 
Puddings boiled Cuftard 145 
Goofberry E57 
Herb 157 
Hunting 14g 
Lemon 146 
Marrow 154 
Marrow a2d Way 154 
Marrowa 3d Way 156 
boil’d Milk 156 
Orange 347 
Quaking 156 
common Rice 353 
boil’d ditto 148 
ground ditto 246 
red Sagoe 150 
Sagoe another ¢ 12 
Way 5 
Sippet 148 
Tanfey with 
Almonds r5° 
| Tanfey bak’d = 1.52 
' Tanfey boil’d 150 
Tanfey with 
ground Rice 15 
Tranfparent 149 
dittoa2d Way 175 
white in Skins 158 
Vermicelli 150 
Yorkthire un- 6 
der Meat 5 
Puffs Almond 265 
Chocolate 254 
Curd 239 
German 142 
' Lemon "254 
Pyes Beeffteak 131 
Brides 136 
Calfshead 132 
Codling 134 
Chicken aSavory  —_ 133. 
Eel : 137 
Egg and Bacon to? , 
Eat cold 32 
French 128 


Hare 


Page 
‘Pyes Herb for Lent 134 
Hottentot 135 
Mince 133 
Olive 138 
Rook 137 
Salmon 131 
| Thatthed Houfe 131 
favory Veal 139 
{weet Veal 138 
Venifon 135 
Yorkfhire Goofe 129 
Y orkfhire Giblet * 137 
Quince Marmaisde 201 
preferved 210 
: R ; 
Rabbits to boil 57 
'  florendine 122 
Fricafey brown 124 
Fricafey white. (124 
toroaft . - 58 
furprized 123 
Rafpberry Brandy 314 
| Cream 230 
red Jam . 188 
white Jam 189 
Pafte 216 
Ray, or Scate to boil 26 
Rafts and Rees to roatt 55 
'S 
Sago to make with Milk 293 
Salmon to boil Crimp 19 
to Pot 6 


3 
to Potazd Way 36 


| Sauce: ‘Apple for Goafe 4% 


Bread for roaft Furkey 52 
for Cods Head 

. forCods Head 2d Way - 
Cellery 93 
Ege for Salt Cod 18 
Egg for roafted Fowls 53 
for.Green Goofe 47 
for Stubble Goofe 47 
Onion 


Onion for boil’d Goofe4 ts 
Aa 


%a:2 


E X, ix. 
Sauce Oy fer for boil’d _ 
lurkey 
_ for roafted Pig 
for roafted Pig 2d Way 4 ag 
for Salmon 19 
‘Shrimp I 
for boil’d Turkey a 
ad Way 5° 
white for Fifh 22 
white for Fowls 52 
white forboil’dBreaft 
of Veal 78 
. Saufages to fry 266 
Scate or Ray to Boil 26 
Scotch Collops brown 84 
Collops French Way 84 
Collops white 83 
Collops to warm 63 


Sheéps Rumps and Kidneys 94 . 
Sherbert to make 


314 

Shrub Almond 315 

Currant 316 

another Way 314 

Smelts or Sparlings to fry 28 

Snipes to roaft 56 

Snow Balls to make 241 

a Dith of 181 

Soles to fry _ 279 

to Marinate 27 

Solomongundy to make 256 

a2d Way 257 

Soup Almond to make 

Hare 5 

Onion 9 

Ox Cheek 7 
common Peas 10 - 

green Peas 9 

eas for Lent 10 

Portable for Travellers 3 

Tranfparent 5 

rich Vermicelli 6 

Spinage to ftew- 67 

Stew Carp 22 

Cheefe with light Wigs 2 r 

Ducks 212 


— wll 


x. I. N .D 
Page 
Stew Ducks and green Peas 113 
Hare So 120 
fters and ali Sorts 
“ Shell-fith Bat 
Partridge 119 
a fecond Way 129 
Pears 182 
Peas with Lettices 265 
Rump of Beef 102 
Tench 22 
Turkey brown 108 
Turkey with Corre 108 
lery Sauce 
Strawberry Jam to make 189° 


to preferve 
whole 204 


Stum to make 309 
Stuffing for a marinate ¢ i 
Goofe . 
Srurgeon to drefs 23 

to Pickle 33 
Sagarto boil Candyheight 225 
Sugar to fpin Gold cotour 165 

Silver colour 164 
Spun Sugar a Defert of 166 
Swect-Breads a-la-daub 85 
to fricalty 2 9 6 
en 
to frica 

white > ¢ 6 
forced 86 
raggoo 8 
Syllabubs Lemon to make 183 

Lemon a 2d 8 
Way 104 
folid 183 
under the Cow: 3 184 
Whip 183 

| oo \ 

‘Feale to roaft 56 
‘Tench to ftew brown 22 
Toaft fryed to make 24! 
Tongues to boil — 59 
to fale 285 
Trifle to make 233 


E. & 
Page 
Tripe fouced “ 
Trout to fry 
Turkey boiled, Oyfter Sauce ~ 
to hath 64 
to roaft " 1 
fouced 281 
ftewedandCelery 2, 08 
Sauce 
ftewed brown 108 
Turbot to drefs 20 
Turtle to drefs a rodkb. 
Weight 
Turtlemock to dtefs ot 
a fecond Way ‘43 
Wafers to make 254 
Wafer Pancakes’ 143 
Water Imperial 367 
Web Silver to fpin 164 
Ditto Gold to fpin 165 
Whey Bar 292 
ney Creve of Tartar 292 
Scurvygtafs 292 
. ine 291 
Whitcings to broil 27 
Ditto afecond Way 28 
Wigs to make 25% 
Wine Balm 306 
piaeKberry gor 
Birch 3O4 
Birch a fecond Way 304 
peat A 307 
Ditto a fecond Way 295 
Red Currant wi 
Ditto a fecohd Way - 
Elder-Flower s03 
Elder Raifin 298 
299 
Pearl Goofberry 300 
Goofberry a fe- 
cond Way 30° 
Lemon to drink 6 
likeCitronWater 5 *9 
afecond Way 296 
Orange 297 


6 


I N D 

Page 

‘Wine Orange a fecond Way 297 
Ditto a third Way — 298 

Acid Raifin tocure 307 
Smyrna Raifin 298 
Raifin another Way 299 
Rafpberry gor 
Sycamore 303 
alnut 304 
‘Woodcock to hath 65 
Ditto to roaft. 56 
Veala Breaft to boil 719 


a Breaft to Collar rE} 
Ditto to Porcupine 76 
Ditto te Ragoo 7 
a Fillet bombarded 80 


to Ragog a Fillet 88° 


FoI 


‘E R R 


E xX. xi. 
. P. 
Veal to ew a Fillet 4 
to fricando 8r 
to hath 63 
to difguife a Leg é 
to Mince 


to Alaroyal a Neck of af 


Neck of Cutle 

Olives 4 R 
Venifon Patty 175 

to hath 62 
Haunch roafted 6) 
Violet Cakes 218 
Vinegar Elder-Flower 319 
Goofberry 320 
Sugar 320 
Taragon 319 


A T A 


Page 6, Line 8, for end Onion, read or Onion. 
Page 27, Line 19, for boil Haddocks or Whitings, read droll, 


ed 


