0^ 


^L.  •  •  •  v* 


V  ' 


.**% 


1 


HARRIET  HUBBARD  AYER. 


facts  for  Ladies 


BEAUTY 

DIJMING,  BY  KINSLEY'S 

HOUSE  DECORATION 

HEALTH  OF  WOJVIEJM  Aj\JD  ©HILDF^EJM 

BY   ROBERT  A.    GUNN,  A.    M.,    M.    D. 


EDITED    BY     * 

AMY    G.    AYER 

CHICAGO  : 
AMY    G.     AYER,     Publisher, 

109  and   in  Wabash  Avenue. 
1890. 


/ 


COPYRIGHT, 

AMY    G.     AYER, 
1890. 


PREFACE. 


"  A  thing  of  beauty  is  a  joy  forever  ; 
Its  loveliness  increases ;  it  will  never 
Pass  into  nothingness." 

yohn  Keats. 

THIS  book  is  designed  to  occupy  a  position  at  once 
unique  and  important.  It  is  a  book  expressly  for  ladies. 
It  deals  exhaustively  and  intelligibly  with  a  vast  number 
of  matters,  concerning  which  all  ladies  ought  to  be  thor- 
oughly informed.  In  its  comprehensive  sweep,  it  covers 
the  whole  ground  of  personal  and  domestic  life,  and, 
especially  for  ladies  just  entering  on  the  many  cares  and 
responsibilities  of  housekeeping,  it  would  be  exceedingly 
difficult  to  find,  among  the  many  books  devoted  to  these 
matters,  a  more  suitable  adviser,  friend  and  guide. 

The  wisest  of  householders  and  the  most  sagacious 
and  experienced  of  women,  will  sometimes  find  themselves 
placed  in  circumstances  where  they  are  a  little  at  a  loss  to 
know  what  is  just  the  best  thing  to  do.  But  it  is  hardly 
conceivable  that  any  exigency  could  present  itself,  or  any 
question  arise,  that  this  book  would  not  fully  meet  or 
answer. 

In  the  very  outset,  the  book  deals  boldly  with  the 
question  of  personal  beauty,  and  points  out  the  secret  of 
its  development  and  perpetuation.  Some  foolish  people 
seem  to  think  that  there  is  vanity,  and  only  vanity,  in  the 
desire  to  be  beautiful.     It  is  not  to  be  denied  that  there  is 

3 


IV  PREFACE. 

some  natural  pride  in  the  conscious  possession  of  beauty. 
But  surely  this  pride  is  not  to  be  wholly  condemned!  A 
lady  ought  to  be  as  beautiful  as  she  possibly  can.  This  is 
her  duty,  it  may  also  be  her  pride.  Great  masters  of  art 
in  the  old  world  and  the  new,  have  found  nothing  yet  in 
the  whole  realm  of  nature  more  beautiful  than  "  the 
human  form  divine."  If  this  be  so,  the  first  and 
nearest  duty  is  to  guard  and  conserve  that  beauty  by 
patient,  jealous,  constant  care.  There  is  no  virtue  in 
uncomeliness,  and  it  is  a  shame  to  neglect  that  gracious 
"  human  form  divine,"  which,  by  a  little  care,  might  be 
made  "  a  thing  of  beauty  "  through  youth  and  years,  and 
on  to  venerable  age.  The  "  temple  "  of  the  body  should 
always  be  kept  pure  and  bright  and  beautiful.  The  sug- 
gestions under  this  head,  concerning  the  complexion,  the 
hair,  the  hands,  the  teeth,  and  the  general  grace  and 
beauty  of  the  human  form,  are  as  simple  and  detailed  as 
they  are  important. 

Passing  from  this  matter  of  personal  beauty,  the 
book  then  deals  with  the  important  question  of  dining. 
It  is  not  necessary  to  be  a  pronounced  epicure  to  know 
that  dining,  properly  understood,  is  a  fine  art.  There  is 
all  the  difference  in  the  world  between  "  eating "  and 
"  dining."  Mr.  Gladstone,  the  octogenarian  statesman, 
is  said  to  have  remarked  that  the  secret  of  the  robustness 
of  his  venerable  age  was  the  fact  that  he  "  never  allowed 
himself  less  than  an  hour  for  the  pleasant  business  of 
dining."  The  hasty  lunch  of  the  city  is  one  thing,  the 
pleasant  dinner  of  the  home  is  another.  To  sit  down  to  a 
well-cooked  dinner,  gracefully  served,  with  a  few  con- 
genial spirits  round  the  board,  is  one  of  the  chief  delights 
of  life.     Fifty  pages  of  this  invaluable  book  are  devoted 


PREFACE.  V 

to  a  wise  resume  of  practical  hints  on  all  the  important 
points  connected  with  this  very  important  department  of 
social  life.  The  mode  of  arranging  the  dining-room  and 
setting  out  the  dining- table  with  a  judicious  use  of  cut- 
lery, silver,  glass  and  flowers,  is  fully  discussed  ;  and  that 
discussion  is  followed  by  the  introduction  of  a  large  variety 
of  menus,  with  recipes  for  all  kinds  of  delightful  dishes, 
the  excellence  of  which  has  been  proved,  not  by  occa- 
sional experiment,  but  by  frequent  and  long-continued 
asage. 

The  book  next  deals  with  the  subject  of  house  decora- 
tion, a  subject  that  during  the  last  ten  years  has  become 
a  matter  of  universal  interest.  The  building  of  a  house 
may  tax  the  skill  of  architect  and  builder,  but  the  furnish- 
ing and  decoration  that  change  a  mere  "  house  "  into  a 
"  beautiful  home,"  require  taste  and  skill  and  tact.  It  is 
not  wealth  only  that  goes  to  the  making  of  "  the  house 
beautiful,"  but  that  fine  sense  of  arrangement  that  knows 
what  colors  harmonize,  what  contrasts  are  desirable, 
what  forms  are  graceful,  and  where  "  a  sweet  disorder  " 
is  infinitely  better  than  mere  order.  There  is  much  more 
taste  required  than  is  commonly  thought  in  knowing 
exactly  where  to  hang  a  picture,  and  how  to  drape  it 
when  it  is  hung.  The  home  is  woman's  kingdom  ;  here 
she  reigns  a  queen  by  rights  divine,  and  here  her  genius 
and  taste  find  their  happiest  exercise.  The  drawing- 
room,  the  dining-room,  the  reception  hall,  the  parlors, 
the  library,  the  bed-rooms,  are  but  separate  estates  of  this 
one  home  realm,  each  of  which  requires  a  distinct  and 
separate  treatment.  Into  each  one  of  these  departments 
this  book  goes  with  wise  and  practical  suggestions,  and  so 
thorough,  and  exhaustive,  and  minute  are  these  sugges- 


VI  PREFACE. 

tions,  that  it  seems  a  pity  that  any  household  in  the  land 
should  be  without  "  Facts  for  Ladies." 

The  last  part  of  the  book  vies  with  all  the  rest  in 
practical  importance.  "  Man  know  thyself"  is  a  good 
motto,  but  if  the  maidens  and  mothers  of  the  world  were 
better  acquainted  with  their  physical  organism,  and  the 
simple  secrets  of  health,  they  would  spare  themselves  end- 
less and  unnecessary  suffering,  and  the  future  races  of  men 
would  be  cast  in  a  more  heroic  mold.  This  department 
covers  the  ground  of  Woman's  Physical  Structure  —  Maid- 
enhood, Womanhood  and  Wifehood ;  Motherhood,  Baby- 
hood, Childhood;  Diseases  of  Babyhood  and  Childhood; 
Diseases  of  Women  ;  General  Hygiene,  etc.  The  eleven 
chapters  of  this  medical  department  have  the  rare  advan- 
tage of  presenting  their  various  themes  in  plain,  intelligible 
terms.  Too  frequently  such  matters  are  clothed  in  tech- 
nical phraseology  to  such  an  extent  that  it  is  very  difficult 
to  clearly  apprehend  their  real  meaning. 


CONTENTS. 


BEAUTY. 

PAGE. 

A  Beautiful  Complexion  -  -  -  -  -  14 
Bathing  -  -  -  -  -.  -  -  -17 
An  Oily  Skin       -----.-19 

Blackheads 20 

Cold  Creams        -        - 20 

Wrinkles      --------22 

Pimples         --------    27 

Freckles       ----.---28 

Hair      ---------30 

A  Beautiful  Form       -        -        .        .        -        .37 

Developing  the  Bust 43 

Teeth   ------       ^        -        -    44 

Hands  -- 45 

Shoes    -.- 48 

Dress  and  Color         ------    48 

pekfumes      --------50 

DINING. 

Invitations  -.--        -        -        -        -        -53 

Art  of  Dining    -        - 55 

7 


viii  CONTENTS. 

PAGE. 

Wines — Order  of  Serving          -        -        -        -  59 

Breakfast,  Luncheon,  Tea,   and  Family  Din- 
ners       -         -        -        -        -        -        -        -  6 1 

Carving        --------  66 

Choosing  Fish,  Game  and  Vegetables      -        -  69 

Flowers        --------  75 

Thanksgiving  Day  Dinner  -        -        -        -77 

Breakfast  Menu          - 79 

Choice  Recipes 80 


HOUSE  DECORATION. 

Harmony  for  the  Eye 113 

Woman's  Kingdom        -        -        -        -        -        -  115 

The  Reception  Hall  -        -        -        -        -        -  116 

The  Drawing-Room     -        -        -        -        -        -  118 

Carpets  or  Rugs         -        -        -        -        -        -124 

The  Library         -------  ^5 

The  Dining-Room -  130 

The  Guest  Chamber   -        -        -        -        -        -  138 

The  Gentleman's  Den         -        -        -        -        -  140 

The  Bed-Room     - 142 

Shades  for  the  Window  -  -  -  -  -  151 
Elegance  for  Little  Money  -  -  -  -  153 
Pretty  Devices  for  the  Home  -        -        -  156 

An  Authority  on  Designs         -  167 


CONTENTS.  IX 

HEALTH  OF  WOMEN  AND  CHILDREN. 
CHAPTER  I. 

PAGE. 

Woman's  Physical  Structure     -  169 

CHAPTER  II. 
Maidenhood  —  Education  of  Women         -       -  177 

CHAPTER  III. 

menstruation  and  ovulation. 

Menstruation  —  Ovulation  —  Absence  of  Menses  — 
Chlorosis  —  Painful  Menstruation  —  Profuse  Men- 
struation—  Change  of  Life  -----  188 

CHAPTER  IV. 

WOMANHOOD  AND  WIFEHOOD. 
Courtship  —  Marriage  —  Celibacy  —  Sterility  -         -  204 

CHAPTER  V. 

MOTHERHOOD. 

Conception  and  Pregnancy  —  Signs  of  Pregnancy  — 
Foetal  Development  —  Maternal  Changes  During 
Pregnancy — Hygiene  of  Pregnancy — Disorders 
of  Pregnancy       -------  222 

CHAPTER  VI. 

MOTHERHOOD  —  continued. 

Painless  Childbirth  —  Natural  Labor  and  Its  Man- 
agement—  Difficult  Labor  —  Preternatural  Labor 
—  Complicated   Labor  —  Attentions  After  Labor 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE. 


—  Diseases  Following  Labor  —  Accidents  of  Labor 

—  Miscarriage  and    Premature    Labor  —  Prenatal 
Impressions   and    Mother's  Marks  -         -  259 

CHAPTER  VII. 

BABYHOOD. 

Care  of  the  New-Born  Babe  —  Infant  Feeding  — 
Baby  Hygiene  —  Physical  and  Mental  Develop- 
ment ---------  294 

CHAPTER  VIII. 

CHILDHOOD. 

Development  of  Both  Sexes  Alike  Till  Puberty  — 
Education  of  Children  —  Hygiene  of  Childhood  -  316 

CHAPTER  IX. 

DISEASES    OF   BABYHOOD   AND    CHILDHOOD. 

Disorders  of  Infancy  —  Congenital  Deformities  — 
Diarrhoea  —  Cholera  Infantum  —  Hydrocephalus  — 
Convulsions  —  Croup  —  Diphtheria  —  Eruptive 
Fevers  —  St.  Vitus'  Dance  —  Sore  Eyes  —  Ear- 
Ache  and  Discharges  from  the  Ear  —  Infantile 
Leucorrhoea — 'Phimosis  and  Paraphimosis  —  Scald 
Head  —  Itch  —  Head  Lice  —  Worms  —  Weak 
Spines  and  Spinal  Deformities       -         -         -         -  325 

CHAPTER  X. 

DISEASES   OF  WOMEN. 

Diseases  of  the  Vulva  and  Vagina  —  Inflammation  of 
and  Ulceration  of  the  Womb  — Leucorrhcea  —  Dis- 


CONTENTS.  XI 

PAGE. 

placements  of  the  Womb  —  Tumors  of  the  Womb 

—  Diseases  of  the  Ovaries  —  Cancer  —  Hysteria  -  350 

CHAPTER  XI. 

GENERAL  HYGIENE. 

Condition  of  Dwellings  —  Dress — Rest  and  Sleep  — 
Hygiene  of  the  Skin  —  Hygiene  of  the  Digestive 
Organs  —  Hygiene  of  the  Respiratory  Organs  — 
Hygiene  of  the  Eye  —  Hygiene  of  the  Ear  —  Hy- 
giene of  the  Generative  Organs    -  363 

Glossary 377 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 


PORTRAITS    OF    QUEENS    OF   BEAUTY. 

Harriet  Hubbard  Ayer      -        -  Frontispiece, 

recamier       --------14 

Mrs.  Scott  Moncrieff        -----     30 

Lillian  Russell  -        -        --        -        -        -46 

Lila  Cavanaugh  - 62 

Minna  K.  Gale 78 

Ellen  Terry        - 94 

Miss  Van  Austin 174 

Isabella   Urquart 190 

Gladys  --------  222 

Mrs.  Langtry      -        - 254 

Miss  Carrie  Daniels  - 286 

Mrs.  James  Brown  Potter  -        -        -        -  318 

Ada  Rehan  --------  334 

A  Study 350 

Mme.  Rhea  -  366 

EXAMPLES  OF  DECORATION. 

Dining-room         - 136 

Reception  Hall  - 11 1 

Reception  Hall 116 

Hall  Settle,  etc. 148 

Sitting-room -140 

Parlor  -        - 120 

Coffee  Table,  etc. 154 

Library -  125 


FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 


BEAUTY. 


Since  the  world  began  beauty  has  ruled,  and  yet 
who  can  tell  you  what  it  is?  As  "  one  star  differeth  from 
another  star  in  glory,"  so  does  one  woman  differ  from 
another  in  beauty.  One  competent  judge  will  tell  you 
golden  hair  and  blue  eyes  constitute  beauty;  another 
whose  judgment  is  equally  good  insists  there  can  be  no 
beauty  without  black  hair  and  sparkling  dark  eyes. 
Beauty,  from  this  standpoint,  being  only  a  matter  of 
individual  taste  and  opinion,  the  question  is  left  open  for 
every  woman  to  establish  a  criterion  for  herself;  for 
beauty  is  charming,  exquisite  individuality.  Regular 
features,  light  hair,  dark  hair,  brown  eyes  or  blue,  are 
only  a  small  portion  of  beauty.  A  pretty  face,  without 
its  little  details  of  dress  and  personal  care,  is  forgotten  as 
soon  as  looked  at.  On  the  other  hand,  a  woman  with 
positively  homely  features,  who  understands  detail  of 
dress,  the  secrets  of  a  fine  complexion,  sparkling  eyes, 
beautiful  form,  and  who  has  made  human  nature  enough 
of  a  study  to  know  just  when  to  say  the  right  thing  in  the 
right  place,  will  be  considered  the  beautiful  woman,  where 
perfect  features  will  pass  unnoticed. 

What  are  the  secrets  of  a  fine  complexion,  sparkling 
eyes,     beautiful    form,    etc.?     Physicians,    realizing    the 


14  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

interest,  and  trying  to  meet  the  demand  for  information, 
on  this  subject,  have  written  page  after  page,  and  book 
after  book  has  been  published.  The  purchaser,  beguiled 
by  the  catchy  title,  finds,  after  hours  of  patient  reading, 
that  there  is  nothing  more  profound  than  the  mysteries  of 
the  human  system,  unless  it  be  "  personal  beauty,"  as  set 
forth  by  these  writers.  To  understand  the  technical 
terms,  the  "  whys  and  the  wherefores,"  would  need  a 
thorough  medical  course  to  carry  out  the  suggestions, 
would  need  more  than  the  threescore  years  and  ten,  in 
which  we  are  supposed  to  finish  the  duties  of  this  mortal 
life. 

With  all  due  respect  to  the  learned  writers,  "  Profes- 
sor "  this,  and  "  Dr."  that,  personal  beauty  can  be  de- 
veloped without  studying  "Hygiene"  or  "Anatomy." 
Beauty,  summed  up  into  a  fine  complexion,  bright,  spark- 
ling eyes,  a  straight,  lithe  figure,  and  shining  hair,  is  within 
every  woman's  power  to  reach,  and  means  simply  bathing 
fresh  air  and  exercise. 

A   BEAUTIFUL    COMPLEXION. 

There  is  nothing  attracts  the  eye  sooner  than  a  clean, 
beautiful  complexion.  There  are  numerous  causes  for 
a  bad  complexion.  It  is  generally  the  result  of  not 
bathing  regularly  and  often,  an  indoor  life,  sleeping  in 
badly  ventilated  rooms,  a  fretful,  irritable  disposition,  an 
inactive  liver,  hard  water  and  impure  soaps.  Cleanli- 
ness being  the  foundation  of  health  and  beauty,  the  ques- 
tion of  bathing  should  be  the  first  considered.  Bathing  is 
a  much  discussed  question.  Of  course,  in  this  enlightened 
day,  everybody  is  supposed  to  bathe  properly, but  there 
are  so  many  different  opinions  as  to  what  is  proper.     The 


A  BEAUTIFUL  COMPLEXION.  I  5 

old  fashioned  idea  was  a  hot  bath  Saturday  night,  and 
"  high  neck  "  washes  through  the  week.  The  ideas  of  our 
grandfathers  and  grandmothers  would  have  gone  through  a 
wonderful  transformation  if  they  had  lived  to  enjoy  the 
benefits  of  the  "  black  diamonds." 

In  the  times  of  huge  fire-places  and  bright,  sparklinglogs, 
a  thorough  bath  once  or  twice  a  week  might  do  for  clean- 
liness, but  was  it  enough  for  health?  In  this  generation 
the  perfect  health  of  our  forefathers  is  often  quoted  to  us. 
It  is  possible  that  it  was  their  imperfect  health  that  is  affect- 
ing this  generation.  There  are  old  homesteads  in  the  cen- 
tral part  of  New  York  whose  inmates  have  lived  on  year 
after  year,  repeating  the  habits  and  living  the  lives  of  their 
forefathers,  and  are  they  specimens  of  health  and  hardi- 
hood ?  Not  by  any  means.  Rheumatism,  dropsy,  can- 
cers and  other  diseases  are  proverbial.  Why  is  it  not  safe 
to  conclude  that  these  blood  diseases  are  caused  by  the 
imperfect  condition  of  the  skin,  and  this  the  result  of  not 
frequent  bathing.  The  human  system  digests  daily,  or 
(should  do  so)  seven  pounds  of  food  and  drink,  five  pounds 
of  which  is  thrown  off  through  the  kidneys,  bowels  and  skin; 
from  one  to  two  pounds  through  the  perspiratory  glands  of 
the  skin  alone.  The  "  pores  "  are  the  apertures  of  the 
perspiratory  glands,  and  a  fair  estimate  of  the  number  of 
pores  on  a  person  of  ordinary  size  is  seven  millions  !  It  is 
easy  to  understand  what  the  state  of  health  or  the  con- 
dition of  the  blood  must  be  if  this  poisonous  effete  matter 
is  obstructed  in  any  way.  A  perfect  condition  of  the  skin 
can  be  obtained  by  frequent  bathing  only.  And  frequent 
bathing  means  twice  every  day  at  least. 

Upon  rising  in  the  morning  the  skin  is  in  a  moist  con- 
dition, and  covered  with  poisonous  matter  thrown  off  dur- 


1 6  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

ing  sleep.  A  quick  sponge  bath  with  cold  water,  and  a 
vigorous  rubbing  with  coarse  towels  should  not  take  more 
than  five  minutes,  and  to  relieve  the  skin  of  this  poisonous 
matter  is  certainly  necessary,  otherwise  it  will  be  reab- 
sorbed by  the  system.  Again  at  night,  before  retiring, 
the  same  quick  bath  should  be  taken,  using  hot  water 
instead  of  cold,  relieving  the  skin  of  the  dust  and  dirt  it 
has  accumulated  through  the  day.  Some  physicians  assert 
too  much  bathing  is  injurious,  and  many  ladies  claim  they 
find  frequent  baths  weakening.  Remaining  in  water  any 
length  of  time,  and  repeating  this  process  often,  undoubt- 
edly is  weakening,  but  quick  sponge  baths  and  vigorous 
rubbing  can  only  be  strengthening.  The  shock  of  the 
cold  water  against  the  warm  skin  in  the  morning  sends  the 
blood  tingling  through  the  veins,  and  the  exercise  of 
rubbing  with  flesh  brush  or  coarse  towels  prevents  one 
taking  cold,  and  is  certainly  a  better  tonic  for  an  inactive 
case  than  any  medicine  that  could  be  prescribed  by  the 
best  physician.  The  hot  water  used  at  night,  not  only 
cleanses  the  skin,  but  rests  the  tired  nerves  and  produces 
sweeter  sleep.  Every  mother  understands  the  effect  upon 
an  infant.  Why  should  it  not  be  just  as  beneficial  when 
we  are  grown  up?  Nothing  destroys  the  complexion 
sooner  than  retiring  without  every  particle  of  dust 
removed  from  the  face.  To  accomplish  this  needs  hot  water 
and  soapy  always  being  careful  to  use  pure  soap.  White 
Castile  is  always  to  be  relied  upon,  though  there  are  many 
good,  pure  soaps  in  the  market.  Most  ladies  have  their 
favorite  soap.  What  agrees  with  one  skin  does  not  always 
agree  with  another.  It  is  best  to  give  them  a  trial  and 
decide  for  yourself  which  one  is  the  most  soothing  to 
your  skin.      Colgate's  Cashmere  Bouquet,  Kirk's  fine  toilet 


A   BEAUTIFUL    COMPLEXION.  1 7 

soaps,  "  Cherry  Blossom  "  are  all  good,  though  the  latter 
might  be  considered  too  expensive  for  daily  baths.  How- 
ever, it  is  better  to  economize  on  something  else,  and  use 
good  soap.  Many  a  fine  complexion  is  ruined  by  using 
cheap  soap,  and  many  times  serious  blood  poisoning  has 
been  the  result.  While  hot  water  and  soap  are  positively 
necessary  to  remove  the  accumulation  of  dust  and  dirt, 
mixing  with  the  oil  of  the  skin  on  the  face,  it  leaves  the 
skin  in  a  dry  state,  which  is  not  particularly  pleasant  or 
beneficial.  It  is  best  to  have  on  the  toilet  table  some  kind 
of  oil,  almond  oil,  olive  oil  or  cold  cream,  with  which  to 
anoint  the  face  after  bathing.  This  is  one  of  the  essen- 
tials of  "  beauty's  toilet  table."  I  will  devote  more  space 
to  it,  and  give  some  recipes  for  making  cream  elsewhere. 
So  much  can  be  said  about  bathing  that  it  seems  as 
if  something  must  necessarily  be  left  unsaid.  It  is  really 
the  connecting  link  between  plainness  and  beauty  ;  in 
other  words,  the  starting  point.  As  intimated  in  the 
beginning,  profundity  is  left  to  the  profession,  and  those 
intent  upon  showing  off  their  learning.  What  I  am  telling 
you  is  only  the  experience  of  one  woman  to  another,  and 
my  only  object  is  to  convince  you  that  color  can  be  brought 
to  the  paled  cheek,  and  that  the  peach  bloom  that  is  there 
already  can,  by  proper  care  and  attention,  be  retained. 
The  same  treatment  will  do  both.  Bathing  being  beauty's 
foundation,  do  not  be  afraid  of  water.  It  is  nature's 
own  medicine.  It  can  only  be  weakening  when  it  is  a 
rarity.  The  cold  morning  bath  is  invigorating,  and  will 
bring  a  sparkle  to  the  eye  as  nothing  else  will,  and  the 
hot  bath  at  night  is  restful.  Ladies  living  in  the  country 
have  the  blessing  of  soft  rain  water,  which  they  should 
appreciate.      It  is  a  luxury  in  itself.     Those  deprived  of 


1 8  FACTS  FOR   LADIES. 

this  convenience  can  do  much  toward  producing  the  same 
effect  by  adding  borax  or  ammonia  to  the  bath  water. 

The  bath  water  can  be  made  delightfully  fragrant  by 
the  addition  of  toilet  water.  The  water  is  not  only  made 
fragrant,  but  the  skin  is  made  velvety  and  soft. 

An  excellent  toilet  water  for  softening  the  skin  is 
made  in  the  following  manner: 

i  lb.  Barley  Meal. 
2  lbs.  Bran. 
I  oz.  Borax. 

Dissolve  in  two  quarts  of  water,  and  add  to  the  bath 
water ;  an  ordinary  bath  is  about  thirty  gallons.  Strain 
the  above  through  cheese  cloth  when  dissolved. 

CAMPHORATED  BATH. 
This  is  fragrant  and  cosmetic. 

1  oz.  Tincture  of  Camphor. 
y2  oz.  Tincture  of  Benzoine. 

2  oz.  Cologne  Water. 

Drop  slowly  into  the  bath.  This  being  a  rather  ex- 
pensive toilet  water,  it  is  better  to  make  it  up  in  a  quan- 
tity, and  keep  it  on  the  toilet  table,  and  use  it  for  smaller 
quantities  of  water,  as  in  the  sponge  bath. 

We  are  all  aware  of  the  luxury  and  benefit  of  a  milk 
bath.  While  it  produces  a  remarkable  whiteness  and 
smoothness  of  the  skin,  unfortunately  it  is  an  expensive 
luxury.  A  very  good  substitute  is  made  from  the 
following  mixture: 

]/2  lb.  Marsh  Mallow  Flour. 
%  lb.  Hyssop  Erb. 
4    lb.  Bran  flour. 

Put  into  a  cheese-cloth  bag,  and  add  to  an  ordinary 
bath  of  thirty  gallons. 


ALKALINE   BATH. — AN   OILY   SKIN.  19 

ALKALINE    BATH. 

This  is  only  good  to  use  occasionally  if  troubled  with 
an  oily  skin.  It  is  also  cooling  and  refreshing  in  cases  of 
fever. 

6  oz.  Carbonate  of  Soda  (Crystal). 

1  oz.  Borax. 

Dissolve  in  one  quart  of  water,  and  add  to  an 
ordinary   bath. 

The  sea  salt  that  is  kept  by  all  druggists  makes  an 
excellent  bath,  and  is  very  strengthening. 

A  fine  substitute  for  an  ocean  bath  is  made  from  the 
following: 

2  lb.  Muriate  of  Soda. 
I  lb.  Sulphate  of  Soda. 
%  lb.  Chloride  of  Lime. 

%  lb.  Chloride  of  Magnesia. 

Dissolve  in  two  quarts  of  warm  water,  and  add  to  the 
ordinary  bath. 

AN    OILY   SKIN, 

Ladies  troubled  with  an  oily  skin  may  bathe  the  face 
with  this  lotion  with  benefit: 

%  oz.  Pulv.  Borax. 

1  oz.  Glycerine. 

1  quart  Camphor  Water. 

It  is  healing,  whitening  and  beneficial. 

A  few  drops  of  ammonia  added  to  the  bath  stimu- 
lates and  cleanses  the  skin.  It  is  particularly  valuable  in 
removing  odor  from  those  who  perspire  freely.  It  should 
be  used  with  care,  however.  If  used  too  freely  it  stimu- 
lates the  hair  capsules,  and  will  start  the  fine  hair  growing 
on  the  arms,  face  and  neck,  which  is  anything  but  desir- 
able. 


20  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

"  BLACKHEADS." 

Blackheads  or  comedones  are  formed  by  the  oil  in 
the  perspiratory  glands  becoming  hard  and  too  dense  to 
escape  in  the  usual  manner,  and  is  generally  the  result  of 
not  bathing  properly  (not  using  hot  water  and  soap  on 
the  face).  The  dust  and  dirt  mingling  with  the  oil  at  the 
aperture  or  "  pore  "  form  the  blackheads,  and  they  can 
only  be  removed  by  pressure.  Washing  the  face  with 
hot  water  and  soap  and  water  in  which  is  a  very  little  car- 
bolic acid  is  efficacious  in  causing  them  to  disappear.  In 
using  carbolic  acid  use  warm  water,  and  only  a  few  drops 
of  the  acid,  but  have  it  strong  enough  to  slightly  smart 
the  face,  or  that  part  of  the  face  affected  by  the  black- 
heads. It  stimulates  the  skin  or  glands  into  activity,  and 
allows  the  oil  to  escape  in  the  natural  manner. 

COLD    CREAMS. 

Every  lady  should  have  among  her  toilet  articles 
good  "  cold  cream.  "  If  made  with  the  proper  ingredients, 
it  is  indispensable  in  cases  of  pimples,  chapping  or  any 
roughness  of  the  skin. 

Thousands  of  dollars  are  expended  in  advertising  the 
innumerable  creams  in  the  market,  and,  when  you  ask  a 
druggist  which  is  preferable,  he  invariably  sets  forth  his 
own  special  make.  The  truth  of  the  matter  is,  they  are 
all  very  much  alike.  If  one  is  better  than  the  other,  the 
preference  should  be  given  to  the  one  not  advertised  ex- 
tensively. To  pay  for  advertising,  the  profits  must  neces- 
sarily be  large,  and  consequently  the  quality  of  ingredients 
inferior.  Nearly  all  creams  sold  in  stores  become  rancid, 
and  in  this  state  are  irritating  to  the  skin  instead  of  sooth- 
ing. It  is  better  to  make  your  own  creams.  It  can  be 
.done  with  very  little  trouble  and  at  small  expense. 


COLD    CREAMS.  21 

For  years  a  prominent  society  lady,  noted  for  her 
exquisite  skin  and  complexion,  has  used  a  cream  made 
from  the  following  recipe: 

I  oz.  Spermaceti. 
I  oz.  White  Wax. 

1  oz.  Benzoated  Lard. 

2  oz.  Almond  Oil. 

%  oz.  Camphor  Gum. 

Dissolve  the  camphor  gum  in  the  oil,  and  add  the 
other  ingredients,  heating  the  whole  only  to  melt.  When 
melted,  beat  with  a  fork  for  one  hour,  or  until  perfectly 
cold,  white  and  creamy.  In  using  it  the  face  must  be 
perfectly  free  from  dust  or  any  foreign  matter.  Take  a 
small  quantity  on  the  tips  of  the  fingers,  and  spread  on  the 
face  and  neck,  rubbing  until  the  cream  is  absorbed  by  the 
skin.  The  almond  oil  spreads  very  easily,  and  a  very 
little  of  the  cream  will  cover  the  face  and  neck.  The  face 
becomes  soft  and  velvety  almost  immediately.  A  very 
fine  effect  is  produced  by  rubbing  the  "  shine"  off  with  a 
soft  flannel  dipped  in  powder.  Using  powder  in  this 
manner  not  only  produces  a  better  effect,  but  the  skin  is 
not  injured  by  the  powder. 

The  recipe  for  cream  just  given,  will  cure  the  severest 
cases  of  pimples,  and  in  cases  of  sunburn,  chapping  and 
chafing,  immediate  relief  is  given. 

Another  excellent  cream  for  making  the  face  smooth 
and  satiny,  and  used  by  a  prominent  actress  for  years,  is 
made  from  the  following  ingredients: 

I  oz.  Spermaceti. 

I  oz.  White  Wax. 

I  oz.  Olive  Oil. 

i  tablespoonful  of  Honey. 

Melt  and  beat  to  a  cream.      Apply  at  night,  using 


22  FACTS  FOR   LADIES. 

a  mask.  Another  cream  used  by  the  same  actress,  to 
keep  the  flesh  of  the  face  from  becoming  flabby,  is  made 
from  the  following: 

The  White  of  one  Egg. 

One  Tablespoonful  of  Honey. 

%  oz.  Alum. 

Ground  Barley,  enough  to  make  paste. 

This  is  beaten  together  and  used  with  a  mask. 

One  of  the  finest  lotions  for  keeping  the  skin  of  the 
face,  hands  and  arms,  in  perfect  condition,  is  made  from 
this  formula: 

3  oz.  Rose  water. 

I  oz.  Glycerine. 

10  drops  Carbolic  Acid. 

After  bathing,  and  just  before  using  the  towel,  take  a 
few  drops  in  the  palm  of  the  hands,  and  rub  over  face, 
neck,  hands  and  arms.  If  there  is  too  much  glycerine, 
so  much  that  it  is  noticeable,  use  a  little  less  than  an 
ounce.  By  keeping  this  lotion  on  the  toilet  table,  and 
using  it  as  often  as  water  is  used,  the  skin  will  always 
be  smooth  as  satin.  Glycerine  should  never  be  used, 
unless  very  much  diluted.  It  darkens  the  skin,  and  is 
very  drying. 

WRINKLES. 

It  is  supposed  by  many,  that  wrinkles  are  the  una- 
voidable foot-prints  of  old  age.  This  is  a  mistake.  They 
are  the  result  of  the  tissues  being  emptied  of  their  fatty 
substance,  which  may  be  from  different  causes.  Probably 
nothing  causes  them  sooner  than  sleeping  in  badly  venti- 
lated rooms.  Worrying  and  fretting  over  the  troubles  we 
think  are  coming  to  us,  instead  of  making  the  best  of  the 
troubles  we  have;  that  solace  of  most  women  —  tears  — 


WRINKLES.  23 

whose  furrows  are  the  most  difficult  to  efface;  hard  water, 
using  too  much  soap  and  water  on  the  face,  etc.,  etc. — 
any  of  these  will  cause  the  appearance  of  "  crows-feet." 
While  wrinkles  indicate  a  failing  of  the  nervous  system,  it 
does  not  necessarily  follow,  they  are  the  inevitable  fore- 
runner of  advancing  years.  The  human  body,  like  fine 
blooded  horses,  needs  fine  grooming.  If  men  would 
insist  upon  their  wives  and  daughters  having  personal  care 
and  attention  in  proportion  to  the  care  and  attention 
given  to  their  fine  carriage  horses,  or  "  trotters  " —  "  blos- 
soms in  other  fields  "  would  not  have  the  attraction  they 
have  to  many  of  them  the  present  days.  Women  so 
soon  get  into  a  rut;  outdoor  life,  riding,  rowing,  walk- 
ing, cycling,  are  left  to  the  younger  portion  of  the  family; 
in  fact,  the  mother  insists  upon  the  daughter  having  out- 
door exercise  for  health's  sake.  If  fresh  air  is  good  for 
the  daughter,  why  not  equally  so  for  the  mother?  Out- 
door sports  are  looked  upon  in  the  light  of  amusement 
only.  I  suppose  the  charm  would  be  lessened  greatly,  if 
insisted  upon  as  a  necessity  to  keep  the  system  toned  up. 
Out-door  life  is  positively  essential  to  perfect  health  and 
beauty.  One  of  the  reigning  beauties  at  the  court  of 
three  successive  kings  of  France,  was,  at  seventy,  "  as 
charming,  as  fresh,  and  as  lovely  as  any  lady  of  thirty." 
It  was  said,  by  the  aid  of  skilled  physicians,  "  a  potion  of 
soluble  gold  had  preserved  her  beauty."  The  more  sen- 
sible conclusion  is  that  it  was  her  keeping  up  an  interest 
in  everything  that  keeps  the  heart  young,  "  five  hours  a 
day  in  the  open  air,  riding  hard  with  hawk  and  hound, 
good  meat  and  wine,  daily  baths,"  etc. 

Physical  exercise  and  out-door  life  are  just  as  essen- 
tial for  the  mother  as  the  daughter,   and  probably  more 


24  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

so  —  no  less,  anyway.  This  would  lay  a  foundation  for 
wrinkles  not  appearing.  If  the  skin  has  become  dry  and 
starved,  it  needs  nourishment,  externally  as  well  as  inter- 
nally. Much  can  be  done  to  cause  the  disappearance  of 
wrinkles,  always  providing  the  body  has  plenty  of  nour- 
ishment, good  food,  good  drink,  and  attention  is  paid  to 
the  suggestions  in  regard  to  bathing  and  massage  treat- 
ment for  the  face.  With  good  cold  cream,  almond  oil  or 
olive  oil  will  remove  deep-seated  wrinkles.  It  cannot  be 
done  with  a  few  treatments.  It  took  years  of  neglect  to 
bring  them,  and  it  must  take  patience  and  perseverance 
to  remove  them.  Any  of  the  recipes  given  for  cold 
cream  are  excellent,  and  should  be  used  in  this  manner; 
Upon  retiring  at  night,  wash  the  face  thoroughly  with  hot 
water  and  pure  soap.  While  the  face  is  still  warm  and  the 
skin  active  from  the  rubbing  with  soft  towels,  take  a  little 
cream  on  the  hands  and  rub  it  on  the  face  and  neck,  and 
rub  in  the  opposite  direction  from  which  the  wrinkles  are 
formed.  One  writer  on  the  subject  says:  "  Rub  toward 
the  scalp,  or  wrinkles  will  be  added,  instead  of  removed." 
Rub  the  face  until  the  cream  is  absorbed,  or  from  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes.  In  repeating  this  each  night  for  two 
or  three  weeks,  you  will  find  the  flesh  becoming  firmer, 
and  the  tissues  filling  out.  Rubbing  and  pressing  the 
face  starts  the  circulation,  and  keeps  the  tissues  from  be- 
coming dry  and  inactive. 

Many  Parisian  ladies,  in  the  secrecy  of  their  chambers, 
on  retiring  at  night,  or  some  part  of  the  day,  bind  their 
faces  with  thin  slices  of  raw  beef  or  veal.  For  several 
years  a  popular  lady  of  the  "  American  colony  "  in  Paris, 
has  used  this  remedy  to  feed  the  tissues  of  the  face,  with 
remarkable  results.     At  thirty-eight  she  has  the  complex- 


WRINKLES.  25 

ion  and  skin  of  a  girl  of  eighteen.  It  may  not  be  a  pleas- 
ant thing  to  contemplate,  but  it  prevents  and  removes 
wrinkles  as  nothing  else  will.  Other  ladies  noted  for  their 
fine  complexions,  sleep  in  masks  made  of  rubber  or  silk. 
It  is  a  question  whether  excluding  the  air  from  the  face  may 
not  be  injurious  eventually,  but  the  perspiration  caused 
by  the  use  of  the  mask  keeps  the  face  white  and  delicate 
looking.  The  mask  should  have  a  thin  layer  of  cold  cream 
on  its  inner  surface,  or  the  face  should  be  thoroughly 
anointed  with  oil  or  cream  before  adjusting  the  mask. 
An  excellent  remedy  for  preserving  the  skin  fair  and  ward- 
ing off  wrinkles  is  a  paste  made  from  the  following: 

4  Eggs  (the  Whites  of). 

%  pt.  Rosewater. 

%  oz.  Alum. 

^  oz.  Oil  of  Sweet  Almonds. 

Almond  Meal  or  Oatmeal  enough  to  form  paste. 

Beat  the  eggs,  rosewater,  alum  and  almond  oil 
together,  and  add  the  almond  meal  or  oatmeal  until  a 
paste  is  formed  thick  enough  to  spread  over  mask.  This 
will  give  firmness  to  the  flesh,  as  well  as  make  the  skin 
fair  and  smooth. 

A  good  remedy  for  cleaning  out  the  complexion  and 
making  the  skin  fair,  is  to  take  a  teaspoonful  of  charcoal 
in  water  or  milk,  every  morning  before  breakfast,  for  ten 
days.  Half  an  hour  after  eating,  three  times  a  day,  take 
a  wine-glass  full  of  dandelion  tea,  in  which  is  a  little  extract 
of  mandrake.  There  is  nothing  better  than  charcoal  for 
removing  organic  impurities  from  the  stomach,  but  it  never 
should  be  taken  unless  followed  with  some  kind  of  a  mild 
cathartic  afterward,  as  it  is  constipating. 

A  great  many  girls  and  women  resort  to  the  arsenic 
pills  advertised   to    beautify  the    complexion.     Without 


26  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

doubt  they  are  efficacious  in  filling  out  the  tissues  and 
making  the  skin  perfect  and  fair.  In  some  cases  they  are 
beneficial,  particularly  when  the  system  is  malarious;  but, 
if  the  pills  contain  enough  arsenic  to  produce  any  change 
whatever,  after  a  time  they  would  become  injurious,  and 
should  be  taken  only  under  the  advice  of  a  physician. 

A  fine  preparation  for  bringing  the  blood  to  the  exter- 
nal fibers  of  the  skin,  and  roses  to  cheeks  and  lips,  is  made 
from  this  recipe: 

3  oz.  Rosewater. 

1  teaspoonful  Tincture  of  Benzoin. 

It  is  also  unsurpassed  as  a  remedy  to  remove  tan  and 
sunburn  by  sponging  off  the  face  with  it  after  exposure, 
and  before  using  any  water. 

Lemon  juice  diluted  with  water  is  always  very  satis- 
factory in  removing  tan. 

Muriatic  acid  is  also  good  for  whitening  the  skin.  In 
using  it,  care  should  be  taken.  Add  only  a  few  drops  to 
the  bath  water. 

Another  lotion  for  removing  tan  or  sunburn  is  this: 

10  grains  Borax. 

2  oz.  Limewater. 

i  oz.  Finest  French  Oil  of  Jasmine. 
i  oz.  Oil  of  Sweet  Almond. 

If  the  face  has  become  sore,  or  is  peeling  off  after 
using  this  lotion,  use  every  morning,  after  washing,  a  prep- 
aration made  from  the  following: 

2  drachms  Cloride  of  Ammonia. 

I  oz.  Spirits  of  Wine. 

io  drops  Attar  of  Roses. 

I  pt.  Rosewater. 

I  oz.  Venetian  Talc  (fine  powder). 

Dissolve  the  cloride  in  the  rosewater,  and  the  attar  in 
the  spirit.     Mix  the  two  solutions  and  add  the  talc. 


W  RINKLES .  —  PIMPLES,  27 

For  those  having  tendency  to  very  red  faces,  it  is 
better  to  avoid  eating  anything  that  will  heat  the  blood, 
particularly  during  the  summer  months.  Eat  fruits,  salads, 
fresh  new  vegetables  and  light  meats,  such  as  fish  or 
poultry. 

If  the  complexion  naturally  inclines  to  sallowness, 
nothing  will  cure  it  quicker  than  exercise  in  the  open  air, 
eating  coarse  bread,  and  hunting  for  the  sunny  spots. 

If  the  skin  is  coarse,  the  coarse  bread,  oatmeal,  with 
plenty  of  bathing  and  frequent  changes  of  underclothing 
—  those  that  come  next  the  skin  —  will  produce  a  wonder- 
ful effect  m  a  short  time.  If  the  face  is  rough,  bathing, 
and  the  applications  of  cold  cream  will  smooth  out  the 
roughest  skin. 

I  pt.  White  Brandy, 
%  pt.  Rosewater, 

makes  an  excellent  wash  for  removing  roughness  of  the 
skin.  It  should  be  used  to  sponge  off  the  face  night  and 
morning.  The  brandy  keeps  up  a  circulation,  and  the 
rosewater  counteracts  the  effect  of  the  skin  becoming  too 
dry  in  using  the  brandy. 

PIMPLES. 

Any  of  the  recipes  given  for  cold  cream  will  cure 
severe  cases  of  pimples,  if  they  are  of  the  common  red 
order.  If  they  are  inclined  to  be  sore,  and  come  from 
impurities  of  the  blood,  a  cream  made  from  the  following 
will  be  found  to  be  very  drying  and  healing: 

1  oz.  White  Wax, 

1  oz.  Spermaceti, 

2  oz.  Almond  Oil, 

I  oz.  Benzoated  Lard, 
I  oz.  Oxide  of  Zinc, 

melted  and  beaten  to  a  cream.     Use  it  on  the  face,  and  at 


28  FACTS   FOR  LADIES. 

the  time  remove  the  cause  by  taking  some  simple  remedy 
for  purifying  the  blood. 

FRECKLES. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  freckles,  sun  freckles  and  liver 
freckles.  When  caused  by  exposure  to  the  sun,  they  are 
just  under  the  epidermis,  or  scarf  skin,  and  can  be  removed 
by  external  applications.  Lemon  juice,  diluted  with  water, 
proves  efficacious  sometimes,  and  any  application  that  will 
rough  up  the  skin  sufficiently  to  remove  the  scarf  skin, 
removes  the  freckles  with  it,  though  this  process  is  more 
or  less  disagreeable.  Several  years  ago  there  was  a  sen- 
sational lawsuit  in  England  over  a  cosmetic.  Three  peo- 
ple, each  claiming  to  be  the  the  inventor  of  a  popular  tonic 
for  "making  complexions  beautiful,"  called  upon  judge  and 
jury  to  decide  the  matter.  During  the  progress  of  the 
trial  the  formula  was  given,  which  was  as  follows. 

ij£  oz-  Bitter  Almonds. 

15  grains  Corrosive  Sublimate. 

1  qt.  water. 

This  preparation,  while  it  contains  deadly  poison,  does 
nothing  more  or  less  than  burn  off  the  upper  skin,  or 
scarf  skin,  and  of  course  removes  all  blemishes  with  it. 

One  of  the  most  popular  moth  and  freckle  lotions 
—  or  the  most  advertised  —  of  the  present  day,  is  made 
from  alcohol,  corrosive  sublimate  and  acetic  acid.  It 
sounds  as  if  the  parties  advertising  such  a  remedy  should 
spend  the  rest  of  their  days  behind  the  bars,  but,  as  fortunes 
have  been  made  with  it,  and  people  still  continue  to  pur- 
chase "  bleaches,"  it  must  be  the  results  are,  in  some  cases, 
satisfactory.  For  those  whose  ambitions  tempt  them 
to  "  rush  in   where  angels  fear  to  tread,"  I   will  give  a 


FRECKLES.  29 

recipe,  for  a  "  bleach  "  which  is  claimed  to  be  the  formula 
of  a  very  much  advertised  moth  and  freckle  lotion. 

^  4  oz.  Alcohol. 

12  grains  Corrosive  Sublimate. 
12  oz.  Rose  water. 
2  oz.  Glycerine. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  add,  this  preparation  should  be 
marked  "  poison  " — and,  in  using  it,  care  should  be  taken 
that  it  does  not  touch  lips  or  eyes  —  aside  from  that,  its 
effect  will  be  to  rough  up  the  scarf  skin,  in  other  words, 
it  is  intended  to  burn  4^  the  scarf  skin,  and  the  sensation 
is  the  same  as  a  severe  case  of  sunburn.  A  good  many  of 
the  professional  "  beautifiers  "  use  similar  preparations, 
and  they  claim  that  the"  bleach"  not  only  takes  off  freckles 
and  moth,  but  that  it  brings  the  impurities  of  the  blood  to 
the  surface.  I  have  known  several  ladies  that  have  gone 
through  the  "  transformation,"  and  were  satisfied  with  the 
results.  And  others,  becoming  frightened  at  the  disa- 
greeable burning  sensation,  and  the  redness  produced  by 
the  first  application,  have  rushed  to  a  physician,  and  been 
told  they  were  poisoned.  The  lotion  given  by  the  physi- 
cian to  "  counteract  the  effect  of  the  poison  "  in  one 
instance,  when  analyzed  by  a  chemist,  contained  the  same 
ingredients  as  the  "  bleach."  If  using  it  at  all,  it  is  better 
to  dilute  it  with  water,  and  allow  the  "  transformation  "  to 
be  more  gradual.  Otherwise,  dip  a  camel's-hair  brush  into 
the  solution,  and  apply  it  to  the  spots  affected  by  the  moth 
or  freckles.  In  applying  the  solution  to  the  face  for  the 
purpose  of  removing  the  scarf  skin,  use  a  sponge.  Unless 
a  smarting  is  produced,  it  will  not  have  the  desired  effect, 
but  it  is  not  necessary  to  have  the  sensation  severe.  If 
too  severe,   it  is  better  to  dilute  the  bleach   with    water, 


30  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and  take  longer  time  for  removing  the  blemishes. 
It  can  be  done  in  three  weeks  without  very  disagree- 
able results  by  using  a  weak  solution.  If  used  full  strength, 
the  skin  will  peel  off  in  a  few  days. 

Another  remedy  for  removing  freckles,  tan  and  sun- 
burn is  made  from  this  recipe: 

I  lb.  Epsom  Salts. 

1  qt.  Boiling  Water. 
i  oz.  Quince  Seed. 

2  oz.  Alcohol. 

Juice  of  two  Lemons  (strained). 

Dissolve  the  quince  seed  in  alcohol,  and  add  to  the 
other  ingredients. 

A  lady  noted  for  her  exquisite  complexion  was  at  one 
time  very  much  annoyed  by  a  mass  of  freckles,  which  she 
removed  by  using  this  preparation  : 

I  oz.  Sweet  Almonds. 

4  drachms  Bitter  Almonds. 

io  fluid  oz.  Cherry  Brandy. 

Add 
6  grains  Corrosive  Sublimate. 
6  drachms  Tincture  Benzoin. 
4  drachms  Lemon  Juice. 

Shake  well  before  using,  and  use  night  and  morning, 
applying  with  a  sponge. 

HAIR. 

Undoubtedly  "The  glory  of  a  woman  is  her  hair." 
The  most  beautiful  woman  shorn  of  her  hair  would  be 
decidedly  hideous.  While  it  is  glory's  crown,  and  beauty 
dependent  upon  it,  there  are  comparatively  few  women 
who  really  understand  the  treatment  hair  should  have.  To 
be  sure,  it  is  brushed  enough  to  straighten  out  "  tangles," 
and  combed  enough  to  get  it  up  in  apt  prevailing  style. 
Systematic  hair  baths   and   vigorous   brushing   are    not 


MRS.  SCOTT  MONCRIEFF. 


HAIR.  31 

thought  of  until  the  hair,  from  years  of  neglect,  com- 
mences to  fall  out,  and  what  little  there  is  left  becomes 
gray  and  lifeless.  How  many  women  there  are  that  never 
wash  their  hair  !  some  claiming  they  cannot  do  so  with- 
out taking  a  severe  cold,  others  that  water  is  injurious  for 
the  hair. 

Both  of  these  ideas  are  erroneous.  The  hair  should 
be  washed  thoroughly  once  a  week,  and  brushed  with 
stiff  hair  brush  twice  every  day,  morning  and  night,  for  at 
least  fifteen  minutes.  The  scalp,  to  be  in  perfect  condi- 
tion, must  be  kept  absolutely  free  from  dirt,  caused  by 
accumulations  of  dust  mingling  with  the  oil.  Brushing 
the  hair  thoroughly,  removes  this  foreign  matter  to  a  great 
extent,  but  it  is  not  sufficient  to  keep  the  scalp  clean  and 
the  pores  open.  Water  must  be  used  with  some  alkali 
strong  enough  to  cut  the  oil,  otherwise  the  hair  will  be 
left  in  a  "  gummy  "  state.  Common  bar  soap  is  better 
than  toilet  soap,  but  borax,  ammonia,  or  salts  of  tartar 
are  better. 

Borax  is  rejected  by  some  on  account  of  its  turning 
gray  hair  yellow,  which,  of  course,  destroys  its  beauty. 
There  is  nothing  more  beautiful  than  silvery  gray  hair. 
Ammonia  is  inclined  to  make  the  hair  brittle.  It  is  my 
opinion  there  is  nothing  better  than  salts  of  tartar. 
Many  years' use  of  it  and  a  luxuriant  head  of  hair  are 
proofs  of  the  assertion. 

An  excellent  hair  wash  is  made  from  the  following 
recipe: 

1  oz.  salts  of  Tartar. 

I  qt.  Water. 

The  Juice  of  three  Lemons. 

Dissolve  the  salts  of  tartar  in  the  water  (warm  water), 


32  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  (strained).  The  lemon  juice 
cuts  the  alkali,  but  still  leaves  its  cleansing  qualities. 
When  the  effervescing  caused  by  adding  the  lemon  juice 
to  the  salts  is  over,  hold  the  head  down  over  the  wash- 
bowl, and  turn  the  hair  over  carefully  into  the  wash,  wet- 
ting it  all  thoroughly.  Take  the  hands  and  wet  the  scalp 
and  roots  of  hair,  rubbing  enough  to  make  a  lather.  The 
salts  of  tartar  immediately  remove  all  dirt,  and  even  the 
lady  who  scorns  the  idea  of  dirt  on  her  person  will  be 
surprised  at  the  color  of  the  water.  Unless  the  hair  has 
had  a  very  recent  bath,  it  will  be  simply  black.  After 
thoroughly  rubbing  the  scalp,  or  until  assured  all  par- 
ticles are  loosened  up,  twist  the  hair  in  clear  water,  and 
at  least  three  times.  Have  the  first  rinsing  water  a  little 
warm,  the  rest  colder,  the  last  positively  cold.  Take 
coarse  towels  and  absorb  the  water,  then  use  dry  towels 
and  rub  the  scalp  until  the  hair  is  thoroughly  dry.  It 
is  better  to  shampoo  your  hair  yourself,  even  if  you  are 
fortunate  enough  to  possess  a  maid  competent  enough 
to  do  it  for  you;  the  exercise  will  prevent  your  taking 
cold.  In  preparing  the  hair  for  the  bath,  it  is  good  to 
take  a  fine  comb  and  loosen  up  the  accumulations  on  the 
scalp,  then  brush  it  out  perfectly  free  from  tangles.  If 
you  are  careful  in  turning  it  over  into  the  water,  it  will 
not  get  tangled,  and  there  is  no  need  of  its  being  so  at 
any  time  during  the  process  of  the  shampoo.  When  the 
hair  is  nearly  dried,  by  the  use  of  the  towels,  commence 
using  the  hair-brush  and  coarse  comb  to  get  it  into  its 
natural  position.  Allow  it  to  hang  loosely  until  it  is  per- 
fectly dry. 

Do  not  make  the  mistake  of  confining  it  with  hair- 
pins, if  there  is  even  a  suspicion   of  dampness  about  it. 


HAIR.  33 

Fresh  air  is  an  excellent  tonic  for  the  hair.  If  one  lives 
where  it  is  convenient  to  do  so,  there  is  nothing  better  for 
the  hair  than  to  let  it  down  and  go  out  into  the  sunshine. 
Each  individual  hair  will  appear  to  take  a  new  lease  of 
life.  Light  hair  is  especially  benefited  by  this  sun  and 
air  bath.  Two  hours  in  the  sun  will  bring  out  the  color 
in  the  most  wonderful  way,  making  it  three  shades  lighter. 
The  Italian  ladies  take  the  crowns  out  of  straw  hats  with 
broad  brims,  and  draw  the  hair  up  through  the  crown, 
allowing  it  to  fall  over  the  brim,  then  resort  to  the  roofs 
of  their  houses,  and  sit  in  the  sunshine  hours  at  a  time. 
In  this  way  they  bleach  their  hair,  without  the  use  of 
powerful  remedies  that  can  but  injure  the  hair  in  time. 

In  regard  to  bleaching  the  hair,  I  suppose,  until  the 
end  of  time,  there  will  be  those  interested  in  the  process, 
and  this  chapter  will  not  be  complete  without  some  infor- 
mation on  the  subject.  Hair  that  is  naturally  light,  can 
be  made  several  shades  lighter  by  simple  remedies, 
without  necessarily  injuring  it,  but  to  change  dark  hair 
to  a  golden  hue,  needs  a  powerful  bleach,  and  the  process 
will  in  time  cause  the  hair  to  fall  out.  Peroxide  of 
hydrogen  is  the  basis  of  most  hair  bleaches.  It  looks 
like  water,  and  certainly  looks  harmless,  but  there  is 
many  a  "  patent  blonde  "  can  tell  you  that  to  blondine  the 
hair  is  a  dearly  bought  beauty.  I  never  knew  of  an 
instance  where  the  hair,  by  its  use,  did  not  commence  to 
fall  out,  if  it  was  continued  any  length  of  time.  Peroxide 
of  hydrogen  is  to  be  had  at  all  drug  stores,  being  in 
common  use  for  all  purposes  of  bleaching.  The  hair 
should  be  washed  first,  and  dried  thoroughly;  add  some 
ammonia  to  the  peroxide  of  hydrogen,  and  dilute  the 
whole   with   water,    much  or   little,    according   to    your 

3 


34  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

ambition  to  become  a  "  blondy  blonde  "  or  "  half-tone. " 
Apply  to  the  hair  with  a  tooth-brush,  taking  up  a  furrow 
at  a  time,  wetting  it  thoroughly  from  the  root  to  the  end. 
It  is  the  only  way  to  get  it  bleached  evenly.  Dipping 
the  hair  into  the  solution  is  very  unsatisfactory.  If,  after 
one  application,  the  hair  is  not  light  enough,  try  it  again, 
and  so  on  until  the  desired  color  is  obtained.  After  the 
hair  is  once  bleached,  it  will  not  go  back  to  its  original 
color,  only  as  it  grows  from  the  roots.  The  bleach  should 
be  applied  to  the  roots  about  once  a  week  afterward,  or 
as  often  as  the  hair  becomes  dark  at  the  roots.  When 
your  ambition  is  satisfied,  and  hair  of  "  golden  hue"  has 
lost  its  charm,  then  is  the  time  a  full  realization  of"  he 
who  dances  must  pay  the  fiddler  "  comes  in.  If  the  hair 
has  not  commenced  to  fall  out,  and  cutting  close  to  the 
head  is  a  positive  necessity,  it  is  better  to  do  so  at  once, 
otherwise  the  colors  of  Joseph's  coat  would  be  few  in 
comparison  with  the  colors  the  hairs  of  the  head  will 
take  on  in  its  struggles  to  get  back  to  nature's  color. 

A  very  old  formula  for  bleaching  the  hair,  and  used 
by  the  Roman  ladies,  is  this: 

1  qt.  Ley  made  from  Ashes  of  Fine  Twigs. 
%  oz.   Briony. 

]/z  oz.  Celandine  Roots. 
^  oz.  Turmeric. 
4  drachms  Saffron. 

2  drachms  Lily  Roots. 

I  drachm  Flowers  of  Mullein. 
I  drachm  Yellow  Stechas. 
I  drachm  Broom. 
I  drachm  St.  John's  Root. 

Boil  these  ingredients  together  and  strain.  By  wash- 
ing the  hair  frequently  with  this  solution,  "  it  will  become 
a  beautiful  flaxen  color." 


HAIR.  35 

There  are  many  simple  remedies  that  will  lighten  the 
hair  several  shades,  such  as  exposing  the  hair  to  the  sun, 
washing  it  frequently  with  soda,  borax,  ammonia,  salts  of 
tartar,  or  common  bar  soap. 

One  of  the  finest  hair  tonics,  if  not  the  best  one 
known,  is  this: 

i  pt.  High  Wine. 

I  pt.  Water. 

I  oz.  Bear's  Oil. 

By  applying  it  to  the  scalp,  it  not  only  stops  the  hair 
falling  out,  almost  at  the  first  application,  but  it  will  restore 
gray  hair  to  its  natural  color,  and  cause  the  hair  to  thicken. 

High  wine  is  alcohol  before  it  is  distilled.  Do  not 
allow  a  druggist  to  give  you  poor  whisky  for  high  wine, 
as  a  great  many  will  do.  High  wine  can  only  be  found 
at  a  distillery,  and  cannot  be  bought,  as  it  is  not  stamped. 
Sometimes  a  distiller,  out  of  the  kindness  of  his  heart, 
will  give  it  to  you.  A  gentleman  of  my  acquaintance, 
nearly  sixty-five,  tells  me  he  was  quite  bald  at  forty,  and 
what  hair  he  had  was  gray  and  lifeless.  He  commenced 
using  this  tonic,  and  has  used  it,  more  or  less,  from  that 
time  to  this,  and  his  hair  is  so  luxuriant  that  some  mem- 
bers of  his  own  family  accuse  him  of  coloring  it. 

Another  hair  stimulant  is  made  from  this  recipe: 

I  pt.  Bay  Rum. 

I  drachm  Tincture  Cantharides. 

I  oz.  Castor  Oil. 

I  drachm  Carbonate  Ammonia. 

Mix  well,  and  rub  into  the  roots  two  or  three  times  every 
week,  until  the  hair  ceases  to  fall. 

There  is  nothing  more  beautiful,  no  more  refining  to 
the  face,  than  gray  hair.      A  woman  might  be  common- 


36  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

place  in  appearance  naturally.  Let  her  hair  turn  to  a  pure 
gray,  or  white,  and  she  at  once  becomes  elegant  and  dis- 
tinguished. And  yet  there  are  many  that  abhor  the 
thought  of  "  getting  gray."  It  is  better  to  color  the  hair 
with  some  harmless  coloring  matter,  than  it  is  to  suffocate 
the  scalp  by  wearing  false  hair.  There  are  very  few  harm- 
less hair  dyes,  if  a?zy.  Probably  the  following  is  as  free 
from  harmful  ingredients  as  any  known: 

1  drachm  Sugar  of  Lead. 

2  drachms  Lac  Sulphur. 

3  oz.  Rosewater. 

Use  every  day  once  at  least,  until  the  hair  resumes  its 
natural  color,  after  that,  once  in  two  weeks. 

Another  simple  hair  dye  is  made  from  these  ingredi- 
ents: 

2,^2  drachms  Nitrate  of  Silver. 
3^  drachms  Sulphur  Potassium. 
2%  drachms  Rosewater. 
2j4,  drachms  Water. 

Be  very  careful,  when  applying  this  solution,  not  to  get  it 
on  the  scalp.     Apply  with  a  fine-tooth  comb. 

Honey  wash  is  a  popular  lotion  for  the  hair,  and  is 
made  from  the  following: 

1  drachm  Essence  of  Ambergris. 
i  drachm  Essence  of  Musk. 

2  drachms  Essence  of  Bergamot. 
15  drops  Oil  of  Cloves. 

4  oz.  Orange  Flower  Water. 

5  oz.  Spirits  of  Wine. 
4  oz.  Distilled  Water. 

Brushing  the  hair  thoroughly  and  often  is  nature's 
restorer.  It  is  positively  necessary,  otherwise  all  washes, 
tonics  or  stimulants,  will  prove  a  dismal  failure. 


A  BEAUTIFUL  FORM.  37 

A  BEAUTIFUL  FORM. 

Nature  intended  the  "  human  form  divine  "  to  be 
very  much  the  same  in  all  women.  In  the  first  few  years 
of  every  woman's  life  there  is  a  striking  similarity.  Upon 
reaching  womanhood,  individual  tastes,  different  modes  of 
living  and  careless  habits  have  produced  some  wonderful 
transformations.  And  "  who  shall  decide  when  doctors 
disagree  "  as  to  what  is  a  beautiful  form?  It  may  be  a 
matter  of  individual  tastes;  it  may  be  a  desire  to  possess 
something  we  have  not;  possibly  the  short,  dumpy  style 
admired  so  much  by  French  gentlemen  is  the  correct 
idea,  or  the  straight,  lithe  figure  of  Italian  beauties.  But, 
whether  it  be  short  or  tall,  slender  or  plump,  it  must  be 
symmetrical. 

There  must  be  a  taper  to  the  waist,  a  taper  to  the 
wrist,  a  taper  to  the  ankle.  There  must  be  flesh  enough 
to  hide  the  foundation  of  the  human  frame,  and  muscle 
enough  to  round  out  the  hollows.  Without  doubt  the 
foundation  to  a  beautiful  form  should  be  laid  in  childhood, 
but  the  exercise  and  out-door  life  that  develops  muscle 
and  gives  firmness  to  the  flesh  in  childhood  is  just  as 
necessary  in  womanhood,  in  order  to  retain  those  charms. 
What  is,  then,  more  beautiful  than  a  straight,  lithe,  supple 
figure,  where  every  move  is  perfect  grace?  Be'auty  itself 
can  be  summed  up  in  a  slender,  graceful  figure,  knowing 
how  to  dress  it,  knowing  how  to  carry  the  head,  and  know- 
ing how  to  zvalk.  Any  exercise,  such  as  rowing,  riding 
horseback,  skating,  fencing,  cycling,  and  using  dumb- 
bells, will  improve  and  perfect  the  figure.  To  learn  how 
to  carry  the  head,  practice  walking  (in  the  secrecy  of  your 
own  chamber)  with  a  book  balanced  upon  it.  If  you  are 
observing,  you  will  notice  the  grandeur  there   is,    even  in 


38  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

the  carriage  of  an  Italian  rag-picker,  as  she  walks  along 
the  gutter,  with  her  bag  of  rags  on  her  head.  The  head 
should  be  "  well  set,"  and  this  can  be  acquired,  to  a  great 
extent.  Carry  it  at  all  times  as  if  you  were  balancing 
something  upon  it.  That  does  not  mean,  however,  to 
carry  the  neck  as  if  you  were  trying  to  digest  an  iron  rod. 
The  neck  should  be  well  hinged — that  is,  always  ready 
to  turn  the  head,  independently  of  the  body.  How  few 
there  are  that  understand  the  grace  and  strength  of  this 
movement!  One  of  the  finest  pieces  of  acting  I  ever  saw 
on  the  stage  —  sometimes  we  see  fine  acting  off  the  stage 
—  was  expressed  by  a  slow  turning  of  the  head,  with  the 
body  immovable,  as  if  carved  of  stone.  It  is  said  the 
greatest  charm  of  our  American  young  ladies  —  whose 
beauty  has  been  appreciated  and  raved  over,  more  par- 
ticularly in  London  and  Paris  society,  than  in  our  own 
country  —  is  simply  in  the  magnificent  carriage  of  the 
head.  She  is  quoted  as  having  the  "  air  of  an  hundred 
princesses."  In  walking,  the  body  should  be  inclined 
slightly  forward,  from  the  waist  up,  the  lower  stomach  or 
abdomen  drawn  in,  and,  according  to  the  "  dress 
reformers,"  this  throws  the  lower  part  of  the  back  out,  and 
forms  a  natural  bustle. 

There  is  nothing  more  admired  nor  more  desired  than  a 
fine,  symmetrically  curved  figure,  and  yet  we  are  all  such 
creatures  of  habit.  We  lounge,  we  sit  on  our  feet,  we 
stand  with  our  weight  thrown  on  one  foot,  which,  of 
course,  has  the  effect  of  making  one  hip  larger  than  the 
other  —  and  we  imagine  all  of  these  things  add  to  our 
comfort,  and  give  us  rest  !  They  not  only  cause  exhaus- 
tion, but  actually  cause  deformities,  Learn  how  to  sit, 
stand  and  walk  with  the  spine  in  a  straight  line  and  head 


A   BEAUTIFUL   FORM.  39 

up,  as  if  you  felt,  or  believed  with  Monte  Cristo,  that  the 
"  world  "  is  yours,  and  never,  at  any  time,  allow  a  limp- 
ness to  take  possession  of  you.  In  a  short  time  you  will 
discover  the  old  tired  feeling  is  a  thing  of  the  past. 

After  acquiring  an  easy,  graceful  carriage,  and  walk- 
ing with  a  stride  from  the  hip  without  swaying  the  body 
or  bending  the  knee  more  than  is  positively  necessary,  the 
next  step  toward  acquiring  a  beautiful  form  comes  in  the 
matter  of  dress.  Most  women  wear  too  much  clothing. 
The  symmetry  of  the  figure  is  destroyed  and  hidden  by 
the  many  skirts,  bands  and  gathers  surrounding  the  waist. 
Without  intending  any  particular  indorsement  of  the  differ- 
ent "  fads  "  in  dress  reform,  there  would  be  more  women 
noticeable  for  their  lovely  figures  if  they  would  dress  with 
the  idea  of  showing  off  the  curves  of  the  body.  This  can 
be  accomplished  by  wearing  Jersey  underwear,  fewer 
skirts,  or  none  at  all,  and  adopting  only  the  styles  of  drap- 
ing that  display  the  figure  to  the  best  advantage.  Jersey 
underwear  comes  in  all  materials,  from  heavy  wool  to  the 
finest  silk,  and,  being  elastic,  it  fits  to  the  skin  without  a 
wrinkle.  If  the  preconceived  idea  of  the  necessity  of 
skirts  will  not  admit  of  the  abandoning  of  these  altogether, 
wear  one  of  some  material  that  can  be  laundered  without 
starch.  (Starch,  thank  goodness,  is*  no  longer  consid- 
ered au  fait.) 

If  the  question  of  warmth  comes  up,  that  difficulty 
is  obviated  by  the  texture  of  the  close-fitting  underwear. 
In  going  without  any  skirts  at  all — the  effect  of  which  is 
very  artistic  with  the  right  style  of  dress  drapery  —  the 
question  of  modesty  sometimes  arises.  One  lecturer  on 
"  dress  reform "  said,  when  the  question  came  up  of 
how   it   would    look    when  the  wind  was  blowing:    "  It 


40  FACTS   FOR  LADIES. 

would  look  as  if  we  had  legs,  "  and  added,  "  it  is  no  more 
immodest  than  is  dressing  to  show  the  curves  of  the 
bust."  It  is  no  more  immodest,  and  certainly  it  is  more 
graceful,  and  better  for  the  health,  than  carrying  around  a 
weight  of  clothing  hanging  from  the  waist  or  shoulders. 
An  essential  part  of  dressing  to  show  the  unbroken 
lines  or  curves  of  the  figure,  is  a  well-fitting  corset.  The 
corset  should  be  soft  and  pliable,  made  of  good  material, 
and  fitted  to  the  figure.  French  ladies  are  very  particular 
about  the  matter  of  corsets.  They  consider  it  economy 
to  invest  in  the  highest  priced  corsets  at  all  times.  A 
man  dressmaker,  formerly  from  the  other  side,  says: 
"  French  women  and  American  women  dispute  the  palm 
of  being  the  best  dressers  in  the  whole  world,  but  there  is 
a  secret  which  has  not  found  its  way  across  the  broad 
Atlantic,  and,  until  it  is  mastered,  the  wreath  of  victory 
must  remain  on  the  other  side.  A  French  woman  wears 
a  fifty  dollar  dress  and  a  fifteen  dollar  corset.  An  Amer- 
ican woman  wears  a  two  hundred  dollar  dress  and  a  two 
dollar  and  a-half  corset."  It  is  better  to  spend  less  for 
the  dress,  and  more  for  the  corset.  The  higher  priced 
corsets  are  free  from  starch;  free  from  the  "  stiff  steel  " 
which  the  various  warriors  against  corsets  bring  up  as 
being  so  injurious  to  the  stomach.  The  steels  used  are 
of  the  best  quality,  and  are  soft  and  pliable.  The  other 
materials  being  of  finer  quality,  the  corset  retains  its  shape 
until  worn  out. 

If  too  much  flesh  or  not  enough  interfere  with  the 
figure,  these  defects,  with  a  little  pluck  and  energy,  can  be 
remedied.  Within  a  very  recent  date  a  popular  actress 
by  her  indomitable  will  has  reduced  her  flesh,  or  weight, 
from  197  pounds  to  135,  and  expects  to  get  to  125.     An 


A   BEAUTIFUL  FORM.  4 1 

Eastern  physician  has  been  the  lucky  discoverer  or  com- 
pounder of  a  medicine  that  has  the  effect  of  destroying 
the  appetite.  The  only  nourishment  taken  by  this  lady 
for  thirty  days  was  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  and  this 
medicine  three  times  daily.  This  method  of  reducing 
flesh  is  severe  treatment,  and  few  women  have  constitu- 
tions that  would  warrant  their  experimenting  in  this 
manner.  Fleshy  women  are  seldom  rugged  and  strong. 
Too  much  flesh  is  a  disease,  and  its  causes  can  be  traced 
easily.  In  most  instances  it  can  be  "  simmered  down  "  to 
self-indulgence,  taking  too  good  care  of  yourself,  and 
humoring  all  one's  inclinations.  It  is  pleasanter  to  sit  at 
home  in  a  comfortable  chair  than  it  is  to  go  out  and  take 
a  stirring  walk,  particularly  if  the  day  or  weather  is  not 
propitious.  It  is  gratifying  to  indulge  in  the  dishes  that 
please  the  appetite,  and  generally  dishes  that  please  the 
appetite  of  a  woman  inclined  to  rotundity  are  the  very 
things  she  ought  not  to  eat,  but  other  things  disagree 
with  her  stomach,  and  what  shall  she  do?  The  first  step 
toward  reducing  flesh  is  to  determine  fully  to  sacrifice 
yourself.  You  must  compel  yourself  to  do  certain  things 
whether  you  have  the  inclination  or  not.  It  was  petting 
yourselves  too  much  that  piled  up  the  flesh,  and  only  the 
reverse  of  such  treatment  will  scatter  the  billows.  Daily 
exercise  is  the  first  step,  a  walk  in  the  morning,  and 
again  at  night.  Do  not  make  the  mistake  of  walking  too 
far  at  first,  the  distance  must  be  gradually  increased. 
It  is  better  to  dress  very  warmly,  uncomfortably  so,  cover 
the  fleshy  parts  with  layers  of  flannel,  and  walk  until 
dripping  with  perspiration.  Upon  returning,  and  before 
the  perspiration  is  absorbed  by  the  skin,  sponge  off  in 
salt  water,  a  handful  of  rock  salt  or  sea  salt  to  a  bowl  of 


42  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

water.  Turkish  bathing  is  excellent  to  reduce  flesh  if  you 
do  not  indulge  in  drinking  water  through  the  bath.  It 
will  add  to  flesh  to  drink  water  in  the  Turkish  bath,  and 
reduces  it  when  abstaining. 

A  concoction  made  from  the  following  is  said  to  re- 
duce flesh  and  improve  the  complexion  at  the  same  time: 

I  oz.  Cream  of  Tartar. 

I  oz.  Sulphur. 

I  pt.  Holland  Gin. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  night  and  morning.  Shake 
well. 

In  reducing  flesh,  it  is  essential  to  eat  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, and  not  indulge  in  any  food  that  has  a  tendency  to 
make  flesh.  A  lady  of  my  acquaintance  reduced  her 
weight  very  materially  in  three  months  by  confining  her- 
self almost  entirely  to  bread  without  butter,  and  beefsteak 
(broiled).  Bread  is  nourishing,  and  beefsteak  makes  muscle 
instead  of  flesh.  Eating  a  few  grains  of  coffee  is  said  to 
deaden  the  appetite.  Claret  should  be  the  only  wine  or 
stimulant  used. 

Physical  exercise  should  become  a  daily  duty  to  oneself, 
even  after  the  desired  reduction  in  weight  has  gladdened 
the  heart  of  the  seeker.  Using  dumb-bells  is  probably  as 
satisfactory  an  exercise  as  any,  and  the  effect  is  soonest 
seen.  The  use  of  them  brings  every  muscle  of  the  body 
into  action,  and  makes  the  flesh  firm  and  natural.  They 
should  be  used  under  the  guidance  of  a  teacher  until  the 
difficult  motions  are  understood,  and  used  regularly  from 
five  to  fifteen  minutes  night  and  morning. 

Dumb-bells  are  just  as  beneficial  for  those  desirous  of 
adding  to  their  weight.  The  use  of  them  will  develop 
and  round  out  the  arms  as  nothing  else  will.     Exercise  is 


DEVELOPING   THE   BUST.  43 

■as  important  a  factor  in  adding  to  the  weight  as  in  redu- 
cing the  flesh,  but  different  food  should  be  eaten.  Any- 
thing that  "  grows  in  the  ground  "  makes  flesh,  and  milk 
is  particularly  excellent  in  filling  out  the  tissues.  Drink  two 
or  three  quarts  a  day,  if  possible.  Beer  is  recommended 
sometimes,  but  it  makes  poor  flesh,  and  is  injurious  to  the 
delicate  fibers  of  the  stomach. 

DEVELOPING   THE   BUST. 

Our  markets  are  full  of  so-called  wonderful  discoveries 
for  developing  the  bust.  There  is  no  medical  "  discovery" 
that  will  produce  this  result,  if  nature  has  been  retarded 
by  different  causes,  such  as  wearing  pads,  thereby  exclud- 
ing the  air,  and  compressing  the  tissues,  from  lack  of 
exercise,  a  melancholy  disposition,  ill-health  or  jealousy ', 
A  treatment  exactly  the  reverse  of  all  this  is  the  first 
thing  to  be  considered.  Drink  plenty  of  milk  and  cream, 
sleep  as  much  as  possible,  and  bathe  the  breasts  with 
cold  water,  by  throwing  it  against  them  upon  rising  in' 
the  morning,  rubbing  them  carefully  afterward  with  coarse 
towels.  It  is  necessary  to  start  the  circulation  in  the 
veins,  and  bring  the  muscles  into  action.  Great  care 
should  be  taken  that  there  is  no  harshness  in  rubbing  the 
breasts.  Serious  results  have  followed  the  slightest  bruise 
upon  this  delicate  network  of  tissues,  veins  and  channels. 
In  rubbing,  rub  upward,  never  down.  Dumb-bells  are 
particularly  beneficial  and  successful  as  "  bust  developers.  " 
They  are  safe  and  more  satisfactory  than  any  other  rem- 
edy, in  starting  the  circulation  in  the  tissues  and  channels 
that  have  been  lying  dormant.  According  to  the  state- 
ment of  some  physicians,  it  is  the  only  method  that  can 


44  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

be  guaranteed  to  produce  any  change.  A  systematic  use 
of  the  bells,  with  the  proper  motions  and  the  shower-bath 
of  cold  water,  will  repay  the  effort  in  three  weeks'  time. 
If  the  bust  has  become  flabby  through  sickness,  or  any 
other  cause,  a  wash  made  from  the  following,  and  applied 
night  and  morning,  will  prove  beneficial: 

^  oz.  Alum  Water. 

1  oz.  strong  Chamomile  Water. 

2  oz.  White  Brandy. 

TEETH. 

The  prettiest  face  loses  its  charm  without  the  addi- 
tion of  sweet,  clean  teeth,  yet  sound,  good  teeth  are  sel- 
dom appreciated  to  the  extent  of  giving  them  the  care  and 
attention  they  should  have  in  order  to  preserve  them. 
The  mouth  should  always  be  rinsed  after  eating,  and  can- 
not be  rinsed  too  often.  Too  much  brushing,  however,  is 
injurious  to  the  enamel.  The  teeth  should  onlybe  brushed 
twice  a  day,  and  then  with  a  brush  that  does  not  irritate 
the  gums.  Castile  soap,  the  pure  white  dental  soap,  is 
good  for  the  teeth,  but  there  are  very  few  tooth  powders 
but  what  are  more  or  less  injurious.  Charcoal  is  an 
excellent  thing  for  the  teeth.  It  sweetens  the  breath,  and 
removes  tartar.  Pumice  stone  (powdered)  in  a  little 
alcohol,  applied  with  a  small  pine  stick  sharpened  for  the 
purpose,  will  remove  discolorations. 

The  mouth  must  be  rinsed  thoroughly  often,  using 
pumice  stone,  or  the  gritty  substance  will  injure  the 
enamel  of  the  teeth.  A  good  wash  for  rinsing  the  mouth, 
is  made  with  one  drop  of  carbolic  acid  in  a  wine-glass  of 
water. 

In   using  the  brush,  do   not  rub  it  across  the  teeth. 


TEETH. —  HANDS.  45 

As  a  constant  dropping  will  wear  away  the  hardest  stone, 
so  will  the  frequent  rubbing  wear  away  the  enamel  and 
leave  furrows.  The  teeth  should  be  brushed  lengthwise, 
instead  of  across. 

Once  in  three  months  the  teeth  should  be  examined 
by  a  competent  physician,  and,  if  the  smallest  cavity  is 
found,  it  should  be  filled  at  once.  In  this  way  the  teeth 
can  be  preserved  to  good  old  age  —  will  probably  last  as 
long  as  we  need  them.  An  excellent  wash  for  purifying 
the  mouth  and  hardening  the  gums,  is  made  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  borax  to  a  wine-glass  of  water. 

HANDS. 

There  is  nothing  daintier,  nothing  more  "  kissable" 
than  a  delicate  white  hand,  and  it  is  particularly  so  when 
attached  to  a  small  wrist.  It'  may  not  be  within  every 
woman's  power  to  have  a  small  wrist,  but  a  white,  attract- 
ive hand  is  within  the  reach  of  every  one. 

It  is  first  necessary  that  the  skin  be  in  perfect  condi- 
tion. An  indispensable  preparation  for  keeping  the  skin 
toned  up  is  the  glycerine  and  rosewater  lotion  given  in 
the  chapter  on  bathing  and  toilet  waters. 

It  should  be  used  as  often  as  the  hands  are  washed, 
and  just  before  using  the  towel.  Care  should  be  taken 
that  the  hands  are  not  chilled  in  cold  water.  Warm  water 
has  a  tendency  to  whiten  the  hands,  because  of  the  per- 
spiration caused  by  the  heat.  This  same  effect  can  be 
produced  in  the  winter  time  by  wearing  rubber  gloves. 
Sleep  in  them,  and  wear  them  in  attending  to  household 
duties.  Another  excellent  remedy  for  producing  perspi- 
ration is  a   cream   containing    camphor.     The    following 


46  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

recipe  makes  a  cream   used   very  successfully    by    a   lady- 
noted  for  white  hands: 

I  oz.  Olive  Oil. 

^  oz.  Camphor  Gum. 

Dissolve  in  the  oil. 

Add 
I  oz.  White  Wax. 
I  oz.  Spermaceti, 
i  oz.  Nut  Oil. 

Melt  together  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Bathe  the  hands 
with  hot  water  and  pure  soap.  Dry  thoroughly.  While 
the  skin  is  active  from  the  rubbing,  take  a  little  of  the 
cream  in  the  palm  of  the  hands,  and  rub  them  thoroughly 
with  it  for  ten  minutes,  until  the  cream  is  nearly  absorbed, 
and  then  put  on  a  pair  ot  kid  gloves,  two  or  three  sizes 
too  large,  and  sleep  in  them.  Repeating  this  process  for 
one  week  will  cause  a  remarkable  transformation.  Lemon 
juice  is  also  good  for  whitening  and  making  the  hands  as 
smooth  as  satin.  In  bathing  the  hands,  take  a  few  drops 
and  rub  over  the  skin  while  they  are  wet  with  the  soap 
and  water.  The  lemon  juice  cuts  the  alkali,  and  leaves 
only  the  oil  in  the  soap,  which  softens  the  skin,  and  the 
acid  removes  stains  caused  by  exposure. 

Oatmeal  and  cornmeal  are  both  excellent, for  whiten- 
ing the  hands.  Either  one  of  these  should  be  used  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  lemon  juice.  Sleeping  in  cosmetic 
gloves  is  probably  the  most  satisfactory  way  of  making 
the  hands  white  and  delicate. 

Every  one  can  have  beautiful  finger-nails  by  paying 
a  little  attention  to  the  art  of  manicuring,  and  the  home- 
liest hand  is  made  attractive  by  clean,  polished,  well- 
shaped  finger-nails.  To  keep  the  nails  in  good  condition 
it  is  necessary  to  use  a  hand   brush  in  bathing  the  hands, 


LILIAN    RUSSELL. 


HANDS.  47 

and  always  brush  the  nails  vigorously.  Never  cut  them 
with  knife  or  scissors,  but  use  a  nail  file  instead;  cutting 
the  nails  makes  them  brittle,  and  liable  to  break  with  the 
slightest  knock.  The  skin  around  the  nail  should  be 
pushed  back  to  prevent  the  growth  of  hang-nails,  and  to 
allow  the  crescent  at  the  base  of  the  nail  to  be  seen,  which 
adds  greatly  to  its  beauty.  If  the  nails  have  been  long 
neglected,  it  will  be  well  to  soak  the  ends  of  the  fingers  in 
hot  water,  and  then  trim  up  the  ragged  edges  of  skin. 
File  the  nails  into  shape,  and  use  a  "  polisher  "  made  of 
chamois  skin.  Polishers  can  be  found  in  all  drug  stores 
if  you  are  not  the  possessor  of  a  manicure  set.  To  give 
the  nails  an  extra  polish  a  powder  should  be  used  with 
the  polisher.     A  good  powder  is  made  from  the  following: 

i  oz.  pure  Oxide  of  Zinc. 

No.  49  Carmine  (enough  to  tint). 

Perfumed  with  Jockej  Club  and  Oil  of  Orange. 

One  of  fashion's  fancies  is  to  trim  the  finger-nails  to 
a  sharp  point.  It  destroys  the  symmetry  of  the  hand, 
and  gives  the  nail  a  striking  resemblance  to  a  claw.  The 
nail  should  be  trimmed  the  shape  of  the  finger  end,  and 
it  should  be  just  the  length  of  the  finger;  if  there  is  any 
difference,  a  trifle  short  is  in  better  taste.  Well  kept  finger- 
nails are  emblematic  of  innate  refinement,  whether  seen  on 
the  queen  of  the  parlor  or  on  the  queen  of  the  kitchen. 
Another  sign  of  the  lady  is  a  well-gloved  hand. 

A  lady  should  never  go  upon  the  street  without  her 
hands  being  incased  in  well-fitting  gloves.  They  should 
be  adjusted  and  buttoned  with  the  same  care  and  attention 
as  is  given  the  bonnet  or  hat,  and  before  leaving  the  house. 
Hair  becomingly  dressed,  a  pretty  hat  or  bonnet,  hands 
encased  in  neat  gloves,  and  dainty  shoes,  constitute  an 


48  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

elegantly  dressed  woman,  almost  regardless  »f  the  style, 
or  the  cost  of  material  of  other  garments. 

SHOES. 

It  must  be  that  some  one  wishing  to  advertise  an  un- 
salable shoe  got  up  the  sensation  about  "  common  sense  " 
shoes.  The  scheme  is  laid  bare  when  it  is  asserted  that 
no  other  style  of  shoe  should  be  worn,  "  all  other  shoes 
being  injurious  to  health,  and  worn  only  by  those  careless 
alike  of  health  and  reputation."  The  "common  sense" 
shoe  is  the  style  of  shoe  that  must  necessarily  be  worn — 
when  it  is  the  only  style  that  fts  the  foot.  It  will  fit  com- 
fortably only  those  having  a  broad,  flat  foot  of  low  instep. 
A  lady  with  an  arched  foot  and  high  instep  would  suffer 
as  much  in  "  breaking  in  "  a  "  common  sense  "  shoe,  as 
would  a  lady  with  a  broad,  flat  foot  suffer  in  trying  to 
wear  a  "  Spanish  arched  "  shoe.  Comfortable  shoes  are 
those  that  fit  the  foot  perfectly.  A  shoe  perfectly  fitted, 
touches  and  supports  every  part  of  the  foot.  A  new  shoe 
is  just  as  comfortable  as  an  old  shoe,  if  it  is  fitted  as  it 
should  be.  It  is  a  mistake  to  seek  comfort  in  a  shoe 
larger  than  the  foot.  The  shoe  must  not  be  large  enough 
for  the  foot  to  slip  around,  or  corns,  nature's  enemy,  will 
be  the  result. 

DRESS   AND    COLOR. 

Ladies  dressed  in  mourning  always  have  the  appear- 
ance of  being  elegantly  dressed.  It  is  not  because  black 
is  richer,  more  harmonious,  nor  in  all  cases  more  becom- 
ing. It  is  because  of  the  unbroken  line  of  color.  In 
walking  down  a  crowded  thoroughfare  we  meet  compara- 
tively few  elegantly  dressed  women;  and  yet  one  sees  all 
the  colors  and  materials  known  to  the  manufacturer  or 


DRESS    AND    COLOR.  49 

artist.  To  be  dressed  in  perfect  taste,  a  lady  should  have 
the  same  "  tone  "  predominate  from  head  to  foot.  The 
fault  of  a  picture  is  the  atmosphere  the  artist  has  thrown 
into  it.  He  could  not  have  a  cool,  gray  morning  tint  in 
one  part  of  the  picture  and  the  colors  of  a  warm  sunset  in 
another  part.  The  same  tone  of  color  must  pervade  the 
entire  canvas,  or  it  will  be  a  failure.  And  it  should  be 
the  same  in  a  lady's  street  costume.  Individual  tastes  and 
fancies  may  be  petted  in  house  dresses,  but  on  the  street, 
hat,  dress  and  gloves  should  be  the  same  color,  regardless 
of  passing  fashions.  Colors,  unless  studied  carefully,  are 
disastrous  in  effect.  Tints  should  be.  avoided,  unless  the 
wearer  possesses  high  color.  Black,  white  and  rich  dark 
colors  are  becoming  to  all  complexions.  One  is  always 
well  dressed  in  black,  and  every  lady  should  have  a  plain 
black  silk  in  her  wardrobe.  It  is  suitable  for  "  mill  and 
meeting."  To  be  particularly  well  dressed  it  is  better  to 
have  two,  one  for  "  mill,"  and  another  for  "  meeting." 
White  is  generally  becoming.  Care  should  be  taken  in 
selecting  it,  however.  Never  wear  blue-white  near  the 
face.  A  yellow-white  has  the  effect  of  making  the  face 
look  fair,  while  blue-white  will  give  it  a  decidedly  sallow 
appearance.  A  fleshy  person  should  avoid  all  light  colors, 
and  black  that  has  a  decided  luster,  such  as  black  satin;  it 
will  magnify  the  size,  while  black  without  much  luster 
will  make  one  look  a  third  smaller  in  comparison. 

It  is  every  woman's  duty  to  have  bright,  beautiful 
house  dresses.     In  these  one's  fancy  can  run  wild. 

As  long  as  the  costume  is  artistic,  beautiful  dresses 
for  one's  home  should  be  the  study  of  every  mother,  wife 
or  sister.  In  house  dresses  there  is  great  opportunity  for 
artistic  dressing.     The  most  brilliant  colors  are  permissi- 


50  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

ble  at  home,  and  drapery  that  would  be  decidedly  bizarre 
on  the  street,  is  elegant  and  graceful  in  the  parlor.  The 
consciousness  of  being  becomingly  and  artistically  dressed 
brightens  up  the  countenance  wonderfully.  Sometimes 
changing  from  common  apparel  to  a  beautiful  tea  gown 
will  cure  actual  indisposition.  I  fancy  I  see  an  incredu- 
lous smile  —  but  a  lady  of  my  acquaintance  resorts  to  this 
as  a  never-failing  remedy.  Aside  from  all  this,  the  home 
pictures  should  be  made  the  strongest  influences  thrown 
around  husband,  brother  and  child.  The  memory  of  these 
bright  home  scenes  will  cheer  the  pathway  of  a  weary 
plodder  through  life. 

PERFUMES. 
To  use  powerful,  strong  perfumes  is  the  quintessence 
of  vulgarity  and  coarseness,  but  there  is  nothing  more 
fascinating,  refined  and  irresistible,  and  suggestive  of 
"  moonlight,  music,  love  and  flowers,"  than  a  sweet,  deli- 
cate, faint  odor,  that  is  gone  almost  as  soon  as  it  is  noticed. 
Have  your  favorite  odor,  and  never  use  but  the  one. 
Purchase  the  finest  extract  of  some  flowers,  and  use  but  a 
small  quantity.  A  better  way  is  to  have  innumerable 
sachet  bags,  filled  with  cotton  and  perfume  powder,  and 
kept  in  the  dresser,  in  the  closets,  and  in  your  trunks.  An 
elegant  perfume  for  a  sachet  bag  is  made  from  the  follow- 
ing ingredients: 

i  oz.  Heliotrope  Powder. 

20  grains  pure  Musk  (grain  musk). 

A  fine  perfume  is  made  by  mixing  Jockey  Club  and 
White  Rose  in  equal  parts,  and  adding  a  very  little  Musk 
(Lubin's).      Use  Lubin's  Jockey  Club  and  Wright's  White 

Rose. 

A  dainty  handkerchief  is  an  indispensable  accessory 


PERFUMES.  51 

to  a  lady's  toilet.  Do  not  put  perfume  directly  on  the 
handkerchief.  It  is  better  to  keep  your  handkerchiefs  in 
a  delicately  scented  case. 

Eau  de  Cologne,  Bay  Rum,  and  Florida  Water  are 
necessary  adjuncts  to  the  toilet  table.  Powder,  also,  is 
almost  an  essential.  There  are  times  when  a  lady,  in  jus- 
tice to  herself,  should  dust  a  fine  powder  over  the  face,  as 
in  cases  of  the  "  shine"  that  accompanies  an  oily  skin.  A 
flannel  cloth  and  a  little  powder  remove  the  dirt  and  dust  of 
the  street,  and  they  are  much  better  than  using  too  much 
water  upon  the  face.  Almond  meal  is  an  excelle  t  sub- 
stitute for  powder,  and  is  the  only  powder  used  by  some 
of  the  most  beautiful  women.  It  must  be  used  when  the 
face  is  perfectly  free  from  moisture,  otherwise  it  will  fill 
up  the  pores  of  the  skin,  and  cause  sallowness. 


DINING. 


By  Kinsley's,  Chicago. 


This  is  a  wonderful  age  for  advising  and  correcting. 
If  people  go  wrong  in  these  days,  it  is  not  for  want  of  plenty 
of  counsel.  We  do  things  no  longer  by  the  card,  but  by 
the  book.  But  if  the  housewife,  filled  with  a  laudable 
desire  to  be  "  correct,"  should  consult  the  books  as  to  the 
proper  number  of  invitations  to  her  next  dinner,  for 
instance,  she  would  find  herself  involved  in  a  maze  of  con- 
tradictions. 

In  this  country  fourteen  seems  to  be  the  orthodox 
number.  It  may  be  stated,  however,  that  it  will  almost 
invariably  be  found  true  that  a  party  few  in  number  is 
more  pleasant  and  agreeable  than  a  large  one.  At  an 
afternoon  tea  eight  ladies  will  be  found  more  congenial 
than  sixteen.  It  is,  of  course,  taken  for  granted  that 
quarrelsome  and  ill-natured  people  are  not  to  be  invited 
under  any  circumstances. 

Emerson  said  one  of  the  main  objects  of  all  the  dif- 
ferent modes  of  civilization  is  to  bring  a  number  of  con- 
genial and  agreeable  people  together  at  dinner,  but  he 
does  not  tell  us  how  to  dispose  of  the  other  variety,  the 
man  who  grumbles  through  a  dinner  in  a  state  of  chronic 
sulkiness,  or  the  woman  who  makes  uncomplimentary 
remarks  sotto  voce  to  the  right  and  left. 

Formal  dinner  invitations,  during  the  season,  should 


DINING.  53 

be  sent  out  from  ten  days  to  two  weeks  in  advance.  To 
send  them  out  three  or  four  weeks  in  advance  signifies  an 
excessive  formality,  which  should  be  scrupulously  avoided. 
Of  course,  in  the  great  social  centers,  necessity  compels 
the  issuance  of  invitations  long  before  the  event,  but 
there  is  no  occasion  for  it  in  most  American  cities. 

The  invitation  should  be  either  written  or  engraved. 
The  lady  who  is  a  frequent  dinner-giver  has  engraved 
invitation  cards  at  hand,  with  the  space  for  the  name  of 
the  guest  left  in  blank,  so  that  it  may  be  inserted  with 
pen  and  ink.  At  particularly  formal  affairs  the  name  of 
the  guest  is  engraved.  The  invitation  should  be  made 
in  the  name  of  both  host  and  hostess.  The  following  is 
the  usual  form: 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Arthur  Johnstone 

request  the  pleasure  of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  Barnard's  company  at  dinner,  on 

Thursday,  December  tenth,  at  seven  o'clock. 

The  answer  should  be  addressed  to  the  hostess  only. 
An  invitation  should  be  answered  as  soon  as  received. 
If  an  accident  prevents  the  attendance  of  a  guest  who 
has  already  signified  his  intention  of  being  present,  no 
time  should  be  lost  in  notifying  the  hostess,  that  she  may 
supply  the  vacancy.  No  gentleman  should  ever  be 
invited  without  his  wife  when  other  ladies  than  those  of 
the  family  are  expected. 

The  dinner  hour  should  not  be  earlier  than  six,  not 
later  than  eight.      Full  evening  costume  is  required. 

One  should  be  careful  to  not  invite  those,  whatever 
the  party  numbers,  who  are  known  not  to  be  on  good 
terms  with  each  other.  History  shows  that  a  Dr.  John- 
son and  a  Wilkes  are  not  a  joint  dinner  party  success. 
Get  "  talking   men,"     Too   much   talk   is   better  than  not 


54  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

enough,  at  a  dinner.  Cultivate  the  person  who  has  the 
splendid  audacity  to  talk  across  the  table.  Try  to  show 
people  out.  To  be  correct  is  not  necessarily  to  be  stiff. 
Study  to  make  your  guests  happy.  Encourage  uncon- 
ventionality  if  you  see  your  party  beginning  to  freeze. 

It  is  the  quiet  little  dinners  which  are  the  perfection 
of  social  life.  It  is  said  that  the  number  present  at  these 
dinners  should  not  be  less  than  the  Graces,  nor  more  than 
the  Muses.  There  is  perhaps  some  truth  in  this.  Con- 
versation cannot  be  general  or  quite  unrestrained  where 
the  company  exceeds  eight  or  ten.  In  a  party  of  twenty, 
one  is  restricted  to  the  right  and  left-hand  neighbors  and 
the  guest  opposite.  The  caution  as  to  the  selection  of 
guests  applies  with  especial  force  to  a  small  party,  in 
that  they  should  certainly  be  people  of  analogous  tastes. 
The  great  object  is  to  pair  amiable,  pleasant  and  agreeable 
men  with  pleasant  and  agreeable  women.  A  good  talker 
is  a  great  acquisition,  but  good  listeners  are  not  less  essen- 
tial. Your  good  talker  should  be  an  urbane  and  polite 
man,  not  a  bumptious,  underbred  one.  Unfortunately 
we  all  have  to  deal  with  the  latter  variety,  but  we  are 
under  no  obligations  to  invite  them  to  our  dinners. 

In  asking  people  to  dinner,  you  should  put  to  yourself 
the  question,  "Why  do  I  ask  them?"  and,  unless  the 
answer  be  satisfactory,  they  are  not  likely  to  contribute 
much  to  the  agreeability  and  sociality  of  the  entertain- 
ment. They  may  be  ornamental;  it  may  be  necessary,  in 
a  give-and-take  sense,  to  have  them  in  return  for  a  dinner 
already  long  received  and  digested,  but,  unless  they  are 
sensible,  social,  unaffected,  and  clever,  they  are  not  likely 
to  contribute  their  share  of  the  entertainment's  hilarity. 
You  may  ask  a  man  who  is  a  bon  vivant,  a  raconteur, 


DINING.  -  55 

because  he  talks  well,  is  distinguished,  or  because  he  is 
that  best  of  all  things,  a  "jolly  good  fellow."  But  ask 
no  one,  however  much  above  the  average,  who  is  a 
prig,  pretentious,  disputatious,  or  underbred. 

It  is  to  be  recommended  that  exactly  the  same  circle 
of  guests  should  not  be  ranged  about  a  dinner-table  on 
successive  occasions.  This,  of  course,  does  not  apply  to 
those  parties  of  friends  where  the  number  is  not  too  large 
to  preclude  companionship  —  in  such  cases  previous 
acquaintance  is  but  an  added  charm  —  but  to  the  regula- 
tion affairs  which  constantly  need  the  element  of  novelty. 
Variety  is  not  only  a  spice,  but  an  essential. 

If  the  object  of  dining  be  to  secure  the  greatest 
quantity  of  health  and  enjoyment,  such  results  are  more 
likely  to  be  attained  at  small  than  at  set  and  formal  affairs 
where  people  are  kept  in  "  stately  durance."  Yet  it  is  this 
dull,  comfortless,  stately  and  ostentatious  formality  that 
every  one  is  striving  for.  It  should  not  be  under- 
stood that  it  is  necessary  for  enjoyment  to  abolish 
any  of  the  true  customs  and  etiquette  of  dining,  but  they 
should  not  be  amplified  and  enlarged  upon  to  the  verge  of 
personal  discomfort.  Everything  savoring  of  too  much 
state  and  over-display  should  be  discarded. 

The  old-time  fashion  of  evincing  hospitality  by 
crowding  the  table  with  a  great  number  of  heavily  laden 
dishes,  is  rapidly  disappearing.  The  dishes  should  be 
choice  rather  than  unlimited  in  number,  and  the  wines 
remarkable  for  excellence  rather  than  variety.  It  is  the 
exquisite  quality  of  a  dinner  or  wine  that  pleases  us,  not 
the  number  of  dishes  or  number  of  vintages.  Do  not 
try  to  vie  with  your  neighbor  of  greater  means  than  your- 
self.     Modesty  is   ever  a  peerless  virtue.      Too   often  we 


56  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

see  ostentation  without  ease,  elegance,  good  breeding  or 
good  taste,  and  the  parvenu  too  frequently  appears  in  all 
his  disagreeable  hideousness  and  self-sufficiency.  It  would 
be  far  better  if  people  of  moderate  means  attempted  less. 

No  kind  of  drink  should  be  taken  just  before  eating, 
for  simple  physiological  reasons.  After  the  oysters  a 
glass  of  Chablis,  Barsac,  Sauternes  or  Hock  may  be  taken. 
The  Sauternes  are  as  good  as  any.  White  wine  taken 
with  oysters  agrees  better  than  any  red  wine.  It  is  freer 
from  essential  oils,  and  contains  little  tannin.  Spanish, 
Portuguese  and  Italian  wines  as  a  rule  contain  too  much 
alcohol  for  oysters.  With  the  soup  serve  a  Sherry  or 
Madeira.  Either  of  these  wines  stimulates  and  accelerates 
digestion.  The  best  Sherry  is  Amontillado,  very  dry  and 
light  in  color.  It  sells  for  much  more  than  any  other 
Sherry. 

With  the  fish  comes  a  Sauterne,  Hock  or  White  Bur- 
gundy. Too  much  care  cannot  be  exercised  in  procuring 
good  claret.  A  large  proportion  of  the  wine  sold  in  this 
country  is  merely  vin  ordijiaire,  or  secondary  wine.  The 
prime  growths  fall  far  short  of  the  demand  which  prevails 
for  these  wines  all  over  the  world.  The  best  red  Burgundy 
is  the  Romanee  Conti,  and  the  best  white  the  Montrachet. 
But  good  vintage  of  Pomard,  Volnay,  Nuits  and  Cham- 
bertin  are  excellent.  Burgundy,  however,  is  a  wine  of 
which  only  a  small  quantity  should  be  drank,  as  it  is  very 
heating.  The  very  best  clarets  are  Chateau  Lafitte,  Cha- 
teau Margaux,  Chateau  Latour,  and  Haut  Brion.  The 
second  class  of  claret  wines  is  composed  of  the  Mouton- 
Rothschild,  Rauzan,  Leoville,  Durfort,  Gruand-Larose, 
Brane,  Pichon-Longueville,  and  Cos  d'Estournle  Even, 
these    bring    fancy    prices.      Lower  in    the    scale  comes 


DINING.  57 

Chateau  d'Issan,  Margaux,  Ferriere,  St.  Julien.  The 
wine  of  first  quality,  when  mature,  ought  to  have  a  beau- 
tiful color,  much  firmness,  a  very  agreeable  bouquet,  and  a 
flavor  which  embalms  the  mouth,  strength  without  being 
intoxicating,  and  body  without  harshness.  The  Burgun- 
dies, contrary  to  the  generality  of  French  wines,  are  im- 
proved by  a  sea  voyage. 

With  the  roast  serve  a  claret,  Burgundy  or  Cham- 
pagne. These  wines  may  also  be  served  with  game, 
Claret  preferable.  Champagne,  unlike  Burgundy  or 
Claret,  is  a  wine  always  improved  by  ice.  The  chief  char- 
acteristic is  its  exquisite  delicacy  of  flavor.  There  is  no 
difficulty  in  securing  a  fairly  good  Champagne.  In  this 
country  one  can  choose  from  four  or  five  popular  brands, 
any  of  which  are  good.  It  should  always  be  served  very 
cold;  never  higher  than  forty  degrees.  Ice  must  never  be 
put  in  the  wine,  but  packed  around  the  bottle.  Cham- 
pagne f rappee  is  exquisite  and  refreshing.  This  is  made 
by  freezing  the  wine  in  the  bottle  with  ice  and  salt  packed 
around  it  until  it  has  the  consistency  of  snow.  Some  sort 
of  punch  may  be  served  after  the  roast,  such  as  Victoria, 
Cardinal,  Kirsch  or  Roman.  With  the  entrees  come 
Champagne,  Claret  or  Burgundy. 

Serve  a  Champagne  with  the  salad.  Wine  is  not 
essential  with  the  dessert,  though  perhaps  a  good  Hunga- 
rian might  be  given.  The  Tokay  is  exquisite.  In  France 
Malmsey  and  Malaga  wines  are  offered  usually,  and  in 
England  the  white  and  red  Constantia  and  Frontignan 
are  frequently  produced. 

Before  the  fruits,  nuts  and  raisins  are  brought  on, 
small  cups  for  coffee  should  be  passed. 

While  not  under  the  head  of  wines,  a  slight  digression 


58  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

may  be  pardoned  for  a  word  about  coffee.  For  three  cen- 
turies a  more  delightful,  innoxious,  or  exhilarating  bev- 
erage has  not  been  brought  to  light.  In  extreme  heat  or 
cold,  no  drink  for  steady  use  compares  with  it.  But  it  is 
not  justly  appreciated,  and  for  good  reason  —  nine  cases 
in  ten  it  is  improperly  made.  The  Turks,  who  easily  bear 
the  palm  as  coffee-makers,  do  not  grind  the  berry  in  a 
mill;  they  pound  it  to  a  powder  in  mortars.  Housewives 
or  careless  servants  are  prone  to  either  grind  the  coffee 
too  coarsely,  or,  worse  still,  buy  it  ready  ground,  in  which 
case  the  aroma  is  likely  to  have  totally  evaporated.  The 
fact  is,  the  finer  coffee  is  ground  the  better  it  is,  and  it 
ought  to  be  ground  immediately  before  use.  Then,  the 
berry  should  be  roasted,  not  burnt.  If  you  want  perfect 
coffee,  remove  the  berry  from  the  fire  the  moment  it 
crackles,  and  wrap  it  in  several  folds  of  flannel  to  cool. 
This  preserves  the  essential  oil.  When  it  is  cool,  place  it 
in  an  air-tight  canister.  Sufficient  for  the  day  should  be 
the  coffee  thereof.  In  France  they  usually  make  coffee 
a  Dubelloy,  which  consists  in  pouring  boiling  water  on 
coffee  placed  in  a  porcelain  or  silver  vase  pierced  with 
small  holes.  This  is  poured  off,  heated  to  boiling  point, 
and  passed  through  again.  The  result  is  coffee  as  clear 
and  exquisite  as  any  one  could  wish  for.  A  full-sized 
teaspoonful  of  coffee  should  be  allowed  for  each  guest  in 
making  the  small  after-dinner  cup  of  coffee. 

With  the  fruits  many  families  introduce  some  old 
Madeira,  but  it  is  not  an  essential.  After  which,  the  cof- 
fee, very  hot.  Any  liqueurs  may  be  served,  according  to 
one's  judgment. 

It  may  not  be  generally  known  that  there  is  no 
alcoholic  neutralizer  more  potent  than  coffee. 


DINING.  59 

The  order  in  which  wines  may  be  served  is,  like  the 
character  and  arrangement  of  the  menu,  capable  of  infinite 
variety,  but  the  directions  just  given  will  answer  under 
any  circumstances.  For  convenience  the  following  is 
subjoined: 

Raw  Oysters  —  Sauternes,  Hock,  Chablis. 
Soup  —  Sherry  or  Madeira. 
Fish — White  Burgundy,  Sauternes,  Hock. 
Roast  —  Burgundy,    Claret. 

Kirsch,  Victoria,  Cardinal  or  Roman  Punch. 
Entrees  —  Champagne  or  Claret. 
Game  —  Champagne  or  Burgundy. 
Salad  —  Champagne. 

Dessert  —  If  any  wine,  Hungarian,  Port  or  Madeira. 
Coffee,  Liqueurs,  Cognac. 

The  greatest  attention  must  be  paid  to  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  wine.  Much  depends  on  it  not  being  too 
warm  or  too  cold.  Champagne  must  always  be  served 
cold,  and  the  colder  the  better.  Never  put  ice  in  any 
wine.  If  coldness  is  desired,  pack  salt  and  ice  around  the 
bottle. 

Chablis,  Sauternes,  Chateau  Yquem,  or  other  white 
wines  with  a  body,  should  be  made  considerably  cooler 
than  the  room  where  they  are  served.  Sherry  should  be 
kept  in  a  dry,  cool  place,  and  drunk  at  the  natural  temper- 
ature, or  a  trifle  cooler.  Clarets  are  generally  served  at 
the  temperature  of  the  room,  and  Burgundy  a  trifle 
warmer.  Some  people  like  their  Burgundy  quite  warm. 
In  this  case  wrap  it  in  flannel  near  a  range.  This  also 
applies  to  the  Bordeaux.  Sherry  and  Rhine  wines  should 
be  served  cold. 

In  serving  wines  only  fill  the  glasses  about  three- 
fourths  full.  It  is  not  in  good  taste  to  exceed  this,  and 
it  will  prevent  the  soiling  of  dresses  and  the  spilling  of 
wine  on  the  table. 


60  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Remember  always  that  the  main  point  to  be  con- 
sidered in  selecting  wines,  is  their  quality.  This  is  a 
matter  not  only  important  to  the  palate  but  to  the  health 
of  the  consumer,  especially  in  these  times  of  chemical 
adulteration.  Buy  your  wines  of  a  merchant  of  position, 
one  of  acknowledged  character  and  integrity,  and  you 
will  stand  a  fair  chance  of  getting  a  good  article,  although 
you  may  pay  what  is  called  a  long  price  for  it.  The 
average  man  of  to-day  cannot  be  expected  to  devote 
himself  to  the  study  of  wines,  and  it  is  certain  that  unless 
he  gives  his  days  and  nights  to  it  he  will  have  to  rely  on 
the  honesty  of  the  merchant. 

And  now  a  word  to  those  who  are  fortunate  enough 
to  be  able  to  keep  a  considerable  quantity  of  wine  at 
home.  A  great  deal  of  wine,  good  and  middling,  is 
spoiled  beyond  redemption  by  being  deposited  in  bad  cel- 
lars. Many  people  never  give  a  thought  as  to  where  their 
wine  is  kept.  Yet  this  is  a  matter  of  essential  importance, 
if  the  master  of  a  household  consults  his  own  health  or  the 
health  of  his  guests. 

A  wine  cellar  should  be  neither  too  hot  nor  too  cold. 
It  should  not  be  near  the  kitchen  nor  the  laundry.  It 
should  not  be  exposed  to  changes  of  temperature.  The 
fine  and  more  delicate  wines  grow  ropy,  sharp  or  turbid 
when  stowed  away  in  unfitting  locations.  Light  wines 
require  a  colder  cellar  than  the  strong  wines,  but,  as  a  gen- 
eral direction,  the  temperature  of  a  cellar  ought  to  be 
about  fifty  to  sixty-five  degrees.  The  situation  should  be 
low  and  dry.  Ventilation  is  a  necessity.  All  wines, 
especially  Champagne,  should  be  closely  laid  on  laths,  and 
never  placed  on  their  bottoms,  as  from  this  cause  the  wine 
will  speedily  loose  its  effervescence. 


DINING.  6l 

BREAKFAST,  LUNCHEON,  TEA  AND  FAMILY  DINNERS. 

Air  your  dining-rooms.  The  girl  should  be  in- 
structed to  open  the  windows  and  close  the  doors  of  the 
dining-room  the  first  thing  in  the  morning.  Five  min- 
utes' contact  with  the  sweet  morning  air  will  effectually 
dissipate  all  disagreeable  odors  caused  by  the  closing  of 
the  room  during  the  night. 

The  breakfast  table  may  be  covered  with  a  white 
cloth  or  a  colored  one.  The  latter  may  be  any  one  of  a 
hundred  varieties.  But  the  dinner  table-cloth  must  always 
be  white.  For  breakfast,  dainty  colored  doilies  are  pref- 
erable, as  well  as  at  luncheon  or  tea.  The  only  napkin 
allowed  by  fashion  for  the  more  formal  dinner,  however, 
is  the  large  damask,  hemmed.  For  the  lighter  meals, 
bright  touches  of  color  are  to  be  desired.  For  luncheon, 
it  is  not  essential  that  any  table-cloth  be  used,  particularly 
if  you  have  for  a  dining  table  one  with  a  hard  polished 
top.  Large  fringed  napkins  may  be  spread  at  each 
plate. 

The  dining-room  should  always  be  curtained  with 
some  such  material  as  Swiss  muslin  or  the  more  expensive 
China  silk.  The  light  should  never  be  brilliant,  but  sub- 
dued. If  the  scene  from  the  dining-room  windows  is  a 
disagreeable  one,  care  should  be  taken  to  always  draw 
the  curtains  at  meal-time. 

There  is  much  discussion  as  to  the  changing  of  nap- 
kins. Some  decry  napkin-rings,  because  it  is  proper, 
they  say,  that  a  clean  napkin  be  served  to  each  person 
at  every  meal.  For  any  family,  however  well  to  do,  this 
is  an  entirely  unnecessary  expense.  To  say  nothing  of 
the  fearful  laundry  bills  this  entails  and  the  number  of 
napkins  necessary   to  keep   in  stock,  the  extra  trouble  is 


62  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

too  burdensome  not  to  be  avoided  if  possible.  Besides, 
it  does  not  pay  to  laundry  good  napkins  so  frequently. 
To  change  napkins  once  a  day  is  amply  often.  Sparing 
accidents,  a  napkin  may  be  used  two  or  three  times  with- 
out becoming  noticeably  soiled.  However,  the  matter  is 
purely  discretionary. 

Always  try  to  have  flowers  on  the  table.  Even  a 
little  bunch  of  nosegays  or  daisies  will  brighten  things 
wonderfully.  For  dinner  they  are  almost  a  necessity, 
created  by  fashion,  and  there  are  still  better  reasons  for 
the  morning  meal.  Most  people  come  to  the  breakfast 
table  with  listlessness  and  jaded  appetites.  They  wouldn't 
be  so  if  they  had  gotten  up  an  hour  or  two  before  and 
taken  a  brisk  two-mile  walk,  but  they  haven't.  So  the 
dining-room,  the  breakfast  table  and  its  appurtenances 
cannot  look  too  inviting. 

A  butter  plate,  goblet  or  tumbler  and  a  salt-cellar 
should  be  at  each  plate.  If  individual  salt-cellars  are  not 
used,  a  cruet  or  the  modern  "  shaker"  should  be  placed 
at  each  corner  of  the  table.  The  big,  ungainly  caster  in 
the  center  of  the  table  is  out  of  date.  Do  not  place  the 
tumblers  bottom  end  up.  It  is  an  obsolete  custom,  and 
one  which  never  had  a  foundation  in  reason.  If  it  was 
done  to  avoid  the  accumulation  of  dust,  the  same  would 
apply  with  equal  force  to  everything  on  the  table. 

The  knife  should  be  placed  at  the  right  of  each  plate, 
with  the  edge  laid  toward  it — the  fork  on  the  left  side. 
The  napkin  is  placed  on  the  left. 

The  tea  tray  is  set  in  front  of  the  mistress.  The 
butter,  ice  and  cream  should  already  be  on  the  table. 
The  same  arrangement    answers    for    the  lunch    and   tea 


LILA  CAVANAUGH. 


DINING.  63 

table,  except  that  for  tea  a  white  cloth  is  in  the  best 
taste. 

Every  housewife  should  strive  for  those  deft  touches 
which  distinguish  the  home  dining  table  from  the  board- 
ing house.  It  costs  no  more  to  make  things  bright  and 
cheery  than  otherwise. 

Would  a  wife  be  pleased  to  see  her  Benedict  saun- 
ter down  to  the  breakfast  table  with  unshaven  face,  no 
coat  or  waistcoat,  and  a  soiled  shirt  ?  But  many  a  wife 
presents  herself  in  even  less  inviting  array.  Don't  sit  at 
breakfast  with  hair  in  curling  papers  and  in  a  slatternly 
gown.     It  is  not  true  that 

"Beauty  unadorned  is  adorned  the  most," 

except  the  beauty  is  something  extraordinary,  and 
Venuses  are  rare.  All  these  things  are  to  be  considered, 
for  the  eye  plays  nearly  as  important  a  part  as  the  palate 
in  the  pleasures  of  the  table. 

The  breakfast  begins  with  fruit,  oranges,  bananas,  or 
apples,  and  in  season,  melons,  berries,  peaches,  cherries, 
etc.  All  that  is  needed  with  the  fruit  is  fruit  plates, 
doilies,  knife  and  finger  bowl.  These  are  then  removed, 
and  plates  holding  saucers  for  oatmeal,  cracked  wheat  or 
other  porridge  are  then  put  on.  Milk  and  cream  should  be 
passed  to  guests,  but  for  children  it  is  perhaps  advisable 
to  use  your  own  discretionary  powers. 

The  solid  foods  come  next,  such  as  meat  and  eggs. 
The  plates  are  again  changed,  this  time  heated.  They 
are  placed  in  a  pile  in  front  of  the  head  of  the  house,  who 
waits  on  each  person  in  turn. 

The  plates  at  luncheon  are  .usually  changed  but  once. 
This  is  when  the  transition  is  made  from  the  solid  food  to 


64  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

the  sweet.  Of  course,  this  depends  entirely  upon  the 
food. 

But  little  formality  is  practiced;  the  guests,  if  any, 
wait  on  themselves  mainly. 

A  few  directions  regarding  the  "  family  "  dinner,  to 
distinguish  it  from  the  more  formal  one  mentioned  else- 
where, may  not  be  amiss. 

The  table  cloth  should  be  immaculately  white,  always. 
Occasionally  a  freak  of  fashion  sanctions  some  color  in 
silken  center  pieces  or  sashes  gracefully  arranged,  but 
white  is  in  good  form  at  all  times.  Don't  overlook  the 
flowers.  The  brighter  they  are  the  better.  Remember 
that  the  table  should  not  be  crowded.  Where  the  meat 
platter  is  to  go  a  large  fringed  napkin  should  be  spread. 
All  the  small  silver  should  be  placed  on  the  table  at  once. 
The  knife  and  fork  for  the  second  course,  a  fork  for  the 
salad,  and  next  a  spoon  for  the  soup.  The  napkin  may 
be  laid  either  to  the  left  or  in  front  of  the  plate,  with  a 
"piece  of  bread  between  its  folds.  In  addition  to  these  are 
the  butter  plates,  the  tumblers  or  goblets,  the  salt  cellars 
and  cruets.  No  caster.  The  ice  bowl  and  water  caraffe 
are  placed  on  a  side  table.  With  oysters,  lemon  or 
vinegar  should  be  served.  Five  oysters  are  an  ample 
number  for  each  plate.  After  this  course,  the  soup  tureen, 
with  ladle  and  soup  plates,  are  set  before  the  host  or 
hostess,  who  thereupon  serves  the  soup.  This,  of  course, 
is  only  done  at  a  family  dinner.  The  soup  plates  are  set  in 
plates  which  have  already  been  placed  before  each  person. 

The  meat  comes  next.  One  roast  is  always  sufficient 
for  a  small  dinner.  If  you  have  two,  let  one  be  white,  and 
the  other  brown.  Hints  on  carving  will  be  found  else- 
where. 


DINING.  65 

The  vegetables  may  be  passed  by  the  waitress  to  each 
guest  on  either  small  plates  or  the  large  ones,  containing 
the  meat.  The  vegetables  may  be  placed  on  the  table 
after  being  passed  once,  but  the  better  form  is  to  return 
them  to  the  side  table. 

When  the  second  course  is  removed,  a  clean  plate  is 
applied  at  each  place.  The  salad  bowl  is  set  in  front  of 
the  mistress.  After  the  salad  is  served,  the  waitress  will 
pass  crackers  and  cheese. 

After  this  remove  everything  except  the  flowers, 
small  silver  and  glasses.  Take  the  principal  things  away 
jirst,  the  dishes,  plates,  then  small  pieces,  cruets,  salt 
cellars  and  the  like. 

Then  the  dessert  dishes  are  distributed,  and  the  host- 
ess supplies  to  each,  after  the  same  manner  as  the  soup. 

Don't  allow  any  unnecessary  noise.  Nothing  destroys 
the  harmony  of  a  dinner  so  much  as  the  chattering  of 
dishes.  Insist  on  the  waiter  or  waiters  wearing  light 
shoes.  Serve  the  food  daintily  and  hot.  Cut  all  cold 
meats  neat  and  thin.  It  should  go  without  saying  that 
pastry  should  not  be  given  to  children. 

Afternoon  teas.  These  are  usually  affairs  in  which 
the  dollar  mark  is  thrust  unpleasantly  near  our  faces,  and 
require  long  purses,  but  the  housewife  of  modest  means 
can  give  a  very  charming  and  pretty  entertainment  with 
little  money,  if  she  exercises  a  little  judgment,  and  avoids 
pretentiousness.  She  can  give  a  delightful  little  dinner 
with  oysters,  soup,  some  simple  entree,  such  as  croquettes 
or  patties,  a  roast,  some  salad,  dessert,  and  coffee.  No 
elaborate  menu  is  necessary.  In  these  days  table  furnish- 
ings are  both  cheap  and  pretty.  Plain  white  china  is 
always  in  good  taste.      It   is  well   to  bear  in   mind,  when 


66  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

counting  the  cost  of  entertaining,  that  a  few  women  are 
much  more  certain  to  have  a  good  time  than  a  large  num- 
ber. For  an  afternoon  tea  it  need  not  be  necessary  to 
serve  a  dinner  as  elaborate  as  the  one  just  mentioned. 
With  tea,  coffee  and  chocolate,  bread  and  butter,  sand- 
wiches (cut  thin  and  in  triangles),  and  some  light  cake, 
could  be  made  a  charming  lunch.  Some  study  and  experi- 
ence is  of  course  necessary  to  prevent  people  from  becom- 
ing bored,  but  a  little  tact  goes  a  great  ways. 

For  any  sort  of  entertainment  see  that  your  help  are 
well  trained.  Of  course,  if  you  live  in  a  city,  and  can 
afford  it,  a  caterer  may  be  employed  for  the  occasion 
who  will  leave  nothing  to  be  desired,  but  this  is  a  priv- 
ilege that  all  are  not  in  a  position  to  enjoy. 

Prepare  a  bill  of  the  dinner  or  lunch,  and  put  it  up  in 
a  convenient  place  where  it  may  be  consulted  by  the  help. 
You  might  also  get  up  a  list  of  the  tableware  needed.  In 
a  small  household,  don't  waste  the  stray  bits  of  dishes  left 
over.  Meat  left  in  this  way  may  be  used  for  salmis,  scal- 
lops and  a  dozen  things.  Stale  bread  can  go  into  pud- 
dings, desserts,  etc. ;  cold  rice  and  macaroni  go  into  soups; 
cheese  may  be  used  for  Welsh  rarebit.  Beets  make  excel- 
lent salad,  and  scraps  of  washed  potatoes  can  be  trans- 
formed into  potato  puffs  or  puree. 

CARVING. 

It  is  by  no  means  a  slight  accomplishment  to  be  able 
to  carve  properly  and  gracefully.  The  Romans  at  the 
time  of  the  empire  understood  this  matter.  It  was  taught 
in  the  schools,  and  a  high  degree  of  perfection  was  attained. 
The  French  know  more  about  it  nowadays  than  any 
other  people. 


CARVING.  67 

There  are  no  serious  difficulties  in  learning  how  to 
carve,  and,  with  a  little  study  and  patience,  any  one  may 
quickly  learn  to  perform  the  task  with  sufficient  skill  to  at 
least  avoid  remark,  and  every  head  of  a  household  ought 
to  make  it  a  study.  It  is  not  an  easy  matter  to  prepare  a 
good  dinner,  but  it  is  an  easy  matter  to  spoil  the  effect  by 
negligent  carving. 

All  exertion  is  in  very  bad  taste.  It  either  indicates 
your  lack  of  dexterity  as  a  carver,  or  toughness  of  the 
roast,  or  age  of  the  fowl.  It  is  not  difficult  to  carve  fowls, 
and  in  roasts,  loins,  breasts,  forequarters.  etc. ,  the  butcher 
should  always  separate  the  joints. 

The  platter  should  be  placed  so  that  the  carver  has 
full  control  of  it,  and  thus  avoid  ungracefulness.  Use  a 
keen,  sharp  knife. 

In  carving  a  turkey,  place  the  head  to  the  right,  cut 
off  the  drumstick,  sidebone,  next  the  wing,  then  the  sec- 
ond joint,  and  slice  down  the  breast  until  a  rounded  white 
piece  appears,  which  you  can  separate  from  the  bone  by 
sticking  the  blade  between.  This  is  one  of  the  best  parts 
of  the  fowl.  Then  turn  the  bird  the  other  way  —  the 
fork  need  not  be  removed  from  the  breast  bone  during  the 
entire  operation  —  and  perform  the  same  operation  on  the 
other  side. 

Serve  each  person  with  a  piece  of  the  dark  and  a  slice 
of  the  white  meat. 

A  capon,  partridge  or  large  chicken  may  be  carved 
the  same  way. 

Small  chickens  are  usually  served  in  halves,  either 
cut  straight  down  the  breast  bone  or  crosswise. 

As  a  rule,  only  the  breast  of  the  partridge  is  eaten, 
the  legs  being  too  bitter.      Stick   the   fork  straight  in  the 


68  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

breast  bone,  cut  a  slice  from  the  outside  breast,  then  cut 
close  along  the  breast  bone  and  around  the  wing,  pushing 
all  the  meat  from  off  both  breasts.  The  grouse  may  be 
usually  carved  in  the  same  way.  Generally,  however, 
birds  and  small  fowl  are  served  simply  in  halves. 

Only  the  breast  of  the  canvas  back  duck  is  eaten. 
Stick  the  fork  straight  and  firmly  into  the  middle  of  the 
breast  bone.  Then  carefully  cut  off  the  meat  from  the 
breast,  either  in  one  or  two  thick  slices,  or  thinner. 
Other  kinds  of  ducks,  such  as  redhead  and  mallard,  are 
carved  the  same  way.  Small  birds,  squab,  snipe,  plover, 
woodcock,  etc.,  are  usually  served  whole.  No  carving  is 
necessary. 

Roast  Beef. —  When  the  rib-beef  is  well  roasted  take 
it  from  the  oven  and  put  in  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  rib 
bones  downward.  Cut  off  just  a  little  of  the  crust  from 
the  top.  Stick  in  the  fork  slantingly  near  the  edge,  and 
hold  it  firmly  with  the  left  hand,  while  with  the  right  evenly 
cut  small  slices,  one  third  of  an  inch  thick,  down  to  the 
rib  bones.  Then  cut  underneath  to  separate  the  slices, 
and  serve. 

A  saddle  of  mutton,  lamb,  or  venison  should  be  first 
carved  lengthwise,  then,  crosswise  down.  Be  careful  to 
stick  the  fork  firmly  in  the  saddle,  and  use  a  very  sharp 
knife.  Keep  close  to  the  bone,  and  when  the  piece  is 
detached,  cut  crosswise  into  small  pieces  half  an  inch  or 
more  thick. 

In  carving  roasted  leg  of  mutton,  begin  with  small, 
thin,  even  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  diago- 
nally down  to  the  bone.  Continue  this  until  you  come  to 
the  end  bone,  then  cut  lengthwise  underneath  to  the  end. 
The  meat  is  much  thinner  on  the  under  side.      Carve  here 


CHOOSING   FISH,  GAME   AND   VEGETABLES.  6g 

diagonally,  and  serve  a  piece  from  either  side.  The 
roasted  leg  of  lamb  is  carved  in  the  same  way. 

Tongue  should  be  carved  as  thin  as  a  wafer.  It  is 
much  more  appetizing  cut  in  that  way.  In  fact,  the  same 
statement  applies  to  roast  and  boiled  meats  in  general. 
Cut  these  meats  —  except  mutton  —  too  thin  rather  than 
too  thick. 

The  center  slices  of  the  tongue  are  considered  the 
best. 

A  loin  of  veal  or  mutton  should  be  jointed  by  the 
butcher  before  cooking,  and  the  carver  can  easily  cut 
through  the  ribs. 

Some  practice  is  needful  in  serving  fish.  Lightness 
of  touch  and  dexterity  of  management  are  necessary  to 
prevent  the  flakes  from  breaking.  In  serving  shad  a  part 
of  the  roe  should  be  placed  on  each  plate.  The  turbot  is 
placed  underpart  uppermost  on  the  platter,  for  the  best 
part  of  the  fish  is  that  underneath.  The  fins  are  much 
sought  for.  In  serving  salmon  a  portion  of  both  sides 
should  be  tendered.  The  flavor  of  the  fish  nearest  the 
bone  is  not  equal  to  that  on  the  upper  part. 

CHOOSING  FISH,  GAME  AND  VEGETABLES. 

Fish  of  all  sorts  is  best  when  short,  thick,  well  made, 
bright  in  the  scales,  stiff  and  springy  to  the  touch,  not 
flabby,  and  the  gills  of  a  fresh  red.  When  the  gills  are 
not  bright  and  fresh  red-colored,  the  fish  is  not  eatable. 
Salmon,  bluefish,  pike,  lake  and  brook  trout,  bass,  red 
snapper,  kingfish,  and  fish  of  that  order  are  not  good 
when  the  eyes  are  sunken,  the  fins  hanging  and  the  gills 
grown  pale.  When  stale,  any  fish  is  exceedingly  unwhole- 
some, and  should  be  carefuly  avoided. 


JO  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Lobster  should  be  chosen  by  its  weight,  alertness, 
and  fresh  smell.  The  tail  should  be  stiff  and  springy, 
and  the  sides  firm.  Those  weighing  three  or  four 
pounds  are  the  best,  if  there  is  no  water  in  them.  When 
freshly  caught  there  is  some  muscular  action  in  their 
claws,  which  is  excited  by  pressing  the  eyes.  If  stale, 
the  lobster  has  a  heavy,  muggy  smell.  Lobsters  should 
not  be  shipped  any  distance  alive,  but  should  be  boiled 
before  being  shipped.  A  lobster  that  has  died  before 
going  into  the  boiling  pot  is  unfit  for  food.  If  the  claws 
are  drawn  up  rigidly,  it  is  a  good  indication,  but,  if  they  are 
limp  and  sprawling,  the  lobster  was  dead  before  being 
put  in  the  boiling  pot.  Crabs  and  shrimps  may  be 
chosen  in  the  same  way.  Always  choose  the  largest  and 
heaviest  crab  you  can  find.  Soft-shell  crabs  are  in  season 
from  May  to  September.  They  should  not  be  dead  when 
put  upon  the  fire.  They  should  be  killed  by  the  opera- 
tion of  cooking.  One  of  the  most  palatable  ways  in 
which  they  may  be  cooked,  is  to  roll  them  in  flour,  and 
drop  them  in  boiling  fat  —  like  a  doughnut. 

Herrings  and  mackerel  are  unfit  for  the  table  when 
faded,  wrinkled  or  pliable. 

Coming  from  cold  waters,  no  fish  keeps  better  than 
the  Lake  Superior  whitefish  and  trout,  unless  it  is  the 
salmon.  The  former  is  the  better,  being  delicate  and 
luscious  in  taste  and  having  few  bones.  It  greatly  resem- 
bles the  shad,  and  is  not  surpassed  by  any  large  fresh- 
water fish.  The  pickerel,  bass  and  wall-eyed  pike  of  the 
inland  lakes  are  also  admirable  fish,  and  can  be  shipped, 
packed  in  ice,  so  that  they  reach  the  market  as  fresh  as 
could  be  desired.  Lake  Superior  trout  is  the  best  fish  for 
boiling. 


CHOOSING   FISH,  GAME   AND    VEGETABLES.  7 1 

Fresh  fish  should  be  scaled  and  cleaned  on  a  dry  table, 
not  in  water.  No  more  water  should  be  used  in  cleaning 
them  than  is  really  necessary.  If  frozen  when  brought 
from  market,  thaw  in  ice-cold  water.  Do  not,  however, 
use  frozen  fish  at  all  if  you  can  avoid  it.  Eels  must  be 
dressed  promptly,  or  their  sweetness  disappears.  They 
are  good  except  in  the  warm  summer  months. 

If  pepper  be  sprinkled  over  meat  —  to  be  washed  off 
when  ready  for  cooking  —  it  will  prevent  it  from  tainting 
as  quickly  as  will  powdered  charcoal.  Don't  put  meats  on 
ice,  put  them  near  the  ice.  It  is  the  cold  air  formed  by 
the  ice,  not  the  ice  itself,  which  preserves. 

The  best  beef  may  be  known  by  its  smooth,  medium 
grain,  an  agreeable  carnation  color,  delicately  marbled 
with  streaks  of  fat.  The  flesh  should  look  red,  and  the 
suet  white,  and  the  fat  of  a  light  straw  color.  High-col- 
ored, coarse-grained  beef,  with  a  deep  yellow  fat,  should 
be  rejected.  Steer-beef,  not  to  exceed  three  years  old, 
will  be  found  the  best.  It  is.  more  economical,  as  well  as 
more  toothsome  and  good.  That  of  fatted  cows  and  oxen, 
while  much  used,  is  not  desirable.  Bull-beef  should  never 
be  purchased,  being  clammy,  rank  and  closely  grained. 
The  fat  is  rank,  skinny  and  hard. 

All  beef  should  be  hung  in  a  cooling  house,  not  less 
than  three  weeks  before  being  used,  and,  if  properly  cared 
for,  will  be  free  from  mold  or  any  taint. 

Formerly  the  tenderloin  was  regarded  as  the  choicest 
portion  of  the  steaks,  but  the  sirloin  in  the  best  beef  is 
now  considered  superior.  The  tenderloin  lies  under  the 
short  rib,  is  close  to  the  backbone,  and  is  generally  cut 
through  with,  and  is  part  of,  the  porterhouse.  If  a  ten- 
derloin  is  wanted,  it  may  be  secured  by  buying  an  edge- 


72  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

bone  steak.  This,  after  the  tenderloin  is  removed,  is  equal 
to  the  sirloin.  There  is  a  part  of  the  round,  known  as 
the  top  round  steak,  which  is  a  hearty  as  well  as  econom- 
ical steak,  and  is  sometimes  called  the  tender  round. 
Rump  steaks,  if  from  good  beeves,  are  excellent. 

Veal  should  never  be  from  calves  less  than  four  weeks 
old.  If  younger,  it  is  unfit,  and,  if  older  than  two  months, 
it  is  apt  to  be  poor  from  lack  of  nourishment.  Grass  diet 
changes  the  flesh,  and  it  becomes  less  juicy.  The  kidney 
will  show  the  feeding  and  condition. 

Mutton  is  at  its  best  when  one  year  old,  and  should 
be  short  and  thick,  and  weigh  fifty  to  sixty  pounds.  The 
breed  known  as  Southdown  is  best.  The  test  of  excel- 
lence is  the  color.  The  lean  portions  should  be  of  a 
bright  red,  and  the  fat  white,  and  not  yellowish.  The 
mutton  or  lamb  will  prove  the  best  the  legs  and  shoulders 
of  which  are  short-shanked.  In  the  choice  of  lamb, 
observe  the  eye.  It  should  be  bright  and  full,  not  sunk 
or  wrinkled.  The  longer  mutton  is  hung  up,  provided  it 
does  not  taint,  the  better  it  is. 

Great  care  should  be  exercised  in  buying  pork.  If 
diseased  or  ill-fed,  no  meat  is  more  injurious.  The  lean 
should  be  fine-grained  and  white.  The  fat  should  also  be 
white.  A  thin  rind  is  a  good  indication  in  all  pork,  a 
thick,  tough  one,  not  easily  impressed  by  the  finger, 
is  a  sign  of  age.  The  lean  of  young  pork  will  break  on 
being  pinched.  Measly  pork  is  easily  distinguished  by 
the  fat  being  full  of  kernels.  Rusty  bacon  has  yellow 
streaks  in  it.  Fresh  pork  is  not  much  eaten  in  warm 
weather.  As  to  bacon  and  ham,  observe  whether  the 
smell  be  fresh,  that  the  fat  and  lean  be  clear  and  not 
streaked   with   yellow.     In  buying   bacon,    observe  also 


CHOOSING   FISH,  GAME   AND   VEGETABLES.  73 

that  the  fat  feels  oily,  appears  white  and  does  not  crumble, 
and  that  the  flesh  is  of  good  color  and  adheres  to  the 
bone. 

As  to  the  poultry,  it  may  generally  be  remarked  that 
cultivated  fowls  are  the  best.  Good  fowls  are  short,  plump, 
broad  in  the  breast  and  thick  in  the  rump.  A  hen  is  old 
if  her  legs  and  comb  be  rough.  Young  poultry  may  be 
distinguished  by  the  pellucid  appearance  and  peculiar  feel 
of  the  flesh,  and  by  the  flexibility  of  the  breast  bone.  The 
feet  and  bill  of  a  young  goose  are  yellow  ;  they  turn  red  as 
the  bird  grows  old.  If  fresh  the  feet  are  supple.  If  stale 
they  are  dry  and  stiff.  Young  ducks  feel  tender  under 
the  wings,  and  the  web  of  the  foot  is  transparent  Tame 
ducks  have  yellow  legs,  wild  ducks  reddish  ones.  In 
pheasants  and  quail  yellow  legs  and  dark  bill  are  signs  of 
a  young  bird.  Pigeons  should  be  fresh,  fat  and  tender, 
and  the  feet  pliant  and  smooth.  The  eyes  of  prairie 
chickens  are  full  and  round  when  young,  and  the  breast 
bone  is  soft.  Snipe  and  plover  may  be  chosen  by  the 
same  signs.  Partridges  taint  first  in  the  crop,  and  you 
should  open  its  bill  and  notice  the  odor.  If  the  bill  is  black 
and  the  legs  yellow  the  bird  is  young  ;  if  the  bill  is  white 
and  the  legs  have  a  bluish  cast  the  bird  is  too  old  for  the 
table.  When  pigeons  grow  red-legged  they  are  old. 
The  capon  is  known  by  a  short  and  pale  comb,  a  thick 
rump  and  breast,  and  a  fat  vein  on  the  side  of  the  breast. 
When  young  the  spurs  will  be  short  and  the  legs 
smooth. 

The  choice  of  venison  should  be  governed  by  the  fat, 
which,  when  the  deer  is  young,  is  thick,  clear  and  close, 
and  the  meat  should  be  a  reddish  brown.  It  taints  first 
near  the  haunches.     The  flesh  of  a  female  deer  about  three 


74  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

years  old  is  the  best  venison.  You  can  tell  an  old  rabbit 
by  its  long,  rough  claws  and  gray  hairs.  If  young  the 
wool  and  claws  are  smooth.  If  stale,  it  is  supple  and  the 
flesh  bluish;  but,  if  fresh,  it  will  be  stiff,  and  the  flesh  white 
and  dry. 

Vegetables  are  crisp  when  they  are  fresh;  they  are 
stale  if  they  bend  and  have  a  wilted  appearance.  The 
latter  can  be  remedied  somewhat  by  putting  them  in  a 
cool,  dark  place  and  sprinkling  cold  water  on  them. 
Celery  stalks  should  be  white,  solid  and  clean.  Eggplant 
should  be  firm  rather  than  ripe.  Peas  should  be  bought 
in  pods,  and  should  be  cool  and  dry.  Those  that  are 
rusty  and  spotted  should  be  avoided. 

There  are  a  number  of  ways  to  judge  of  eggs.  One 
way  is  to  drop  the  egg  in  a  pan  of  cold  water.  The 
fresher  the  egg,  the  sooner  it  will  fall  to  the  bottom.  If 
bad  it  will  float  on  the  top.  The  best  way  to  keep  eggs 
is  in  bran  or  meal,  turning  them  frequently.  Salt  will 
preserve  them  in  any  climate,  if  properly  packed. 

In  selecting  cheese,  beware  of  too  much  swelling. 
The  test  of  good  cheese  is  its  moist,  smooth  and  cool 
feeling. 

This  country  is  better  equipped  with  raw  food 
materials  than  any  other  on  the  globe,  not  only  as  regards 
variety  but  quality,  and  there  is  no  excuse  for  monotony 
in  menus.  It  should  also  be  remembered  that  money 
alone  cannot  provide  wholesome  and  appetizing  dishes. 
Personal  care  and  good  taste  must  be  enlisted. 

Do  not  consider  the  work  of  giving  a  dinner  practi- 
cally finished  when  the  food  is  selected,  the  menu  pre- 
pared and  the  dishes  successfully  cooked.  Quite  as  many 
details  arise  and  claim  your  attention  after  you  cross  the 


CHOOSING  FISH,  GAME  AND  VEGETABLES.  7$ 

line  from  the  kitchen  to  the  dining-room  as  before.  You 
have  labored  to  please  the  palate;  now  you  must  labor  to 
please  the  eye.  Cookery,  it  is  true,  is  the  gastronomical 
branch  of  chemistry,  an  art  as  well  as  a  science,  and  worthy 
of  the  loftiest  endeavors,  but  no  amount  of  skill  in  this 
direction  can  compensate  for  an  unsightly  array  of  ill- 
arranged  dishes.  The  art  of  dining  is  not  alone  to  satisfy 
such  personages  as  that  Roman  Emperor  whose  only  desire 
was  to  see  how  much  he  could  eat,  and  how  often;  but  it 
is  to  bring  satisfaction  to  other  senses  than  that,  to  which 
it  is  the  special  mission  to  minister.  "  A  studied  attention 
to  the  room,  the  table,  and  the  serving  of  the  courses, 
adds  greatly  to  the  success  of  a  dinner." 

There  is  some  diversity  of  opinion  as  to  the  proper 
shape  of  the  dining  table.  The  English  maintain  that  it 
should  be  round  or  oval,  butthe  Americans  usually  employ 
the  rectangular  form.  A  table  for  eight  persons  should 
be  eight  feet  long.  Under  the  cloth  should  be  a  piece  of 
green  baize,  heavy  canton  flannel,  or  a  woolen  cloth.  This 
will  deaden  the  sound  of  the  dishes  and  preserve  the  surface 
of  the  table.  A  large  napkin  should  be  spread  under  the 
platter  if  any  carving  is  to  be  done.  The  table-cloth,  of 
white  linen,  should  not  be  so  large  as  to  discommode  the 
guests.  See  that  the  napkins  are  not  laundered  too  stiffly. 
Take  care  that  the  table  is  firm  on  its  legs,  and  not 
unsteady.  It  should  be  placed  directly  in  the  center  of 
the  dining  room,  under  the  chandelier. 

Flowers  should  never  be  omitted.  It  is  difficult  to 
have  too  many  of  these.  Fashion  has  set  the  limit  of 
"  good  form  "  so  high  that  it  is  seldom  overleaped.  A 
large  bouquet  or  basket  should  be  placed  in  the  center  of 
the  table,    and  a  bunch  tastily  tied  with   ribbon,  on  the 


76  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

right  of  each  cover  for  the  ladies,  and  a  boutonniere  or  bud 
for  the  gentlemen.  Another  pretty  form  is  to  place  all  the 
flowers  in  the  center  of  the  table,  to  be  distributed  to  the 
guests  after  the  dinner  has  been  served.  There  are 
innumerable  other  designs  for  the  arrangement  of  flowers 
with  or  without  ribbons.  But  this  is  a  field  in  which  the 
average  American  lady,  with  her  artistic  intention  and 
love  of  the  beautiful,  needs  no  guidance. 

The  knife  for  the  fish,  soup  spoons  and  oyster  forks 
should  be  placed  to  the  right,  and  a  fork  to  the  left. 

Don't  crowd  the  table.  Nothing  looks  as  unbecom- 
ing as  a  table  heaped  with  all  sorts  of  useless  articles.  For 
this  reason  the  monstrous  centerpiece  which  was  once  in 
vogue  has  disappeared.  Everything  on  the  table  should 
be  of  use  or  of  esthetic  worth.  All  floral  ornamentation 
should  be  low,  in  order  that  the  view  may  not  be 
obstructed.  The  decanted  wines  included  in  the  menu 
are  placed  on  either  side  of  the  flowers  in  the  center,  and 
the  small  wine-glasses  for  the  guests  are  arranged  on  the 
right  of  each  cover,  and  a  salt  cellar  is  placed  on  the  left. 

It  is  no  longer  in  the  best  taste  to  fold  the  napkins 
into  fantastic  shapes,  although  it  is  still  done  occasionally. 
The  more  becoming  way  is  to  fold  them  squarely  and 
simply. 

A  printed  menu  may  or  may  not  be  placed  at  each 
plate,  or  the  menu  may  be  written,  if  the  guests  are  few 
in  number.  It  is  more  homelike  and  quite  as  proper  not 
to  have  any  menu  cards  at  all. 

There  are,  of  course,  as  many  menus  and  manners  of 
serving  them  as  there  are  fish  in  the  sea,  but  that  the 
reader  may  form  some  idea  of  the  usual  mode  of  placing  a 
first-class  dinner  before  guests,  the  following  menu  will  be 


CHOOSING   FISH,  GAME   AND   VEGETABLES.  77 

taken   for    an    example.      This    is    a    dinner    particularly- 
appropriate  to  Thanksgiving  day: 

Blue  Points.  Montrachet. 

Celery. 


Cream  of  Terrapin.  Amontillado. 

Hors  d'oeuvres  Varies. 


Planked  White  Fish  Schloss  Johannisberger. 

Parisienne   Potatoes. 

Cucumbers. 


Timbales  of  Sweetbreads,  Champagne, 

a  la  Toulouse. 


Roast  Turkey  stuffed  with  Marrons. 
Anna  Potatoes.  Chateau  Mouton  Rothschild. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 


Kirsch  Punch. 


Canvas-back  Duck.  Romanee  Conti. 

Hominy  Fritters. 


Artichoke  and  Celery  Mayonnaise. 


English  Plum  Pudding,  Brandy  Sauce. 


Noisette  Panachee.  Cakes. 

Biscuits.  Cheese.  Fruits.  Old  Port. 

Coffee.  Cognac  Liqueurs. 


The  waiter  should  be  notified  as  soon  as  the  guests 
arrive,  in  order  that  he  may  have  time  to  prepare  the 
oysters.  These  should  be  served  on  the  shell  in  a  soup 
plate  or  other  deep  plate  filled  with  shaved  ice  and  cov- 
ered with  a  small  fancy  napkin.  Have  the  oysters  opened 
and  served  on  deep  shells,  arranged  neatly  on  the  top  of 
each  plate,  with  half  a  lemon  in  the  center.  The  oysters 
should  be  placed  on  the   table  a  few  moments  before  the 


78  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

guests  sit  down.  Serve  celery  and  Montrachet  imme- 
diately after.  The  plates  should  never  be  removed  until 
all  the  guests  have  finished.  Then  remove  the  oyster 
plates,  leaving  the  dinner  plates.  The  soup  comes  next, 
and  with  this  course  serve  Amontillado.  Stuffed  olives, 
anchovies,  radishes,  mangoes  and  similar  dishes  are  hors 
d'oenvres,  and  should  be  served  as  soon  as  the  soup  plates 
are  removed. 

A  planked  whitefish  nicely  garnished  should  now  be 
placed  on  the  table  before  the  host.  Serve  a  small  por- 
tion to  each  guest,  with  a  spoonful  of  Parisienne  boiled 
potatoes  on  one  side,  and  apiece  of  lemon  on  the  other. 
At  the  same  time  serve  cucumbers  in  individual  plates. 
Schloss  Johannisberger  is  served  with  this  course. 

Remove  the  plates,  and  serve  Timbales.  Put  a  spoon- 
ful of  sauce  on  each  plate,  then  a  timbale.  Have  both 
very  hot.     Also  serve  Champagne. 

The  turkey,  artistically  garnished,  should  now  be 
brought  in  on  a  large  platter,  and  placed  before  the  host. 
Serve  in  each  plate  a  piece  of  the  white  and  a  piece  of 
the  dark  meat,  with  gravy  over  the  dressing.  The  cran- 
berry sauce  may  be  set  before  each  guest  in  small  sauce 
plates.  Have  two  dishes  of  Anna  potatoes,  cut  in  small 
portions,  passed  about  to  the  guests.  Then  serve  the 
Chateau  Mouton  Rothschild. 

Then  remove  all  the  dishes  used  with  the  previous 
course,  and  bring  out  the  Kirsch  punch,  either  in  glasses, 
shells,  or  fancy  cups.  Arrange  them  on  cold  dessert  plates 
with  a  fancy  napkin  or  paper  underneath. 

The  canvas-back  ducks  come  next.  Serve  them  on 
hot  plates  to  each  guest,  half  of  a  breast  with  a  little 
gravy,    and    a    hominy    fritter.     This    course    should    be 


MINNA   K.   GfcLE. 


BREAKFAST.  79 

brought  to  the  table  thoroughly  hot.  Serve  Romanee 
Conti.  On  each  salad  plate  put  a  lettuce  leaf,  and  on  it 
an  artichoke  heart  dipped  in  French  dressing  and  filled 
with  celery  mayonnaise.      Serve  very  cold. 

After  this  remove  everything  from  the  table  except 
the  flowers,  bon-bons,  etc.,  and  serve  the  plum  pudding. 
Pour  brandy  around  the  pudding  on  the  platter,  spread 
powdered  sugar  on  top,  set  fire  to  the  brandy,  and,  with 
a  spoon,  keep  pouring  it  over  the  top  until  it  ceases  to 
burn.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve,  putting  some  of  the  liquid 
on  each  plate. 

Ice-cream,  "  noisette  panachee,"  should  be  served, 
with  ice-cream  forks,  after  the  pudding.  Small  assorted 
cakes  should  be  passed  at  the  same  time. 

Then  remove  the  plates,  and  place  before  each  guest 
a  dessert  plate  for  fruit,  crackers  or  cheese.  Old  port  is 
served  in  small  glasses  at  the  same  time.  While  the 
finger-bowls — with  a  little  peppermint  water,  or  water 
with  a  geranium  leaf  in  it — are  being  used,  place  on  the 
table  small  cups  for  coffee,  which  should  be  served  very 
hot.     Cognac  and  liqueurs  complete  the  dinner. 

BREAKFAST. 
Prepared  by  Kinsley's. 

MENU. 

Melon. 
Frogs  au  Beurre.  Cucumbers. 

Lamb  Chops  Broiled.  Pomme  Sara. 

Coffee.  Eggs  en  Bechamel.  Rolls. 

Frogs  au  Beurre. —  Cleanse  the  frogs'  legs  in  cold 
water,  then  in  fresh  water  with  a  little  salt  and  lemon 
juice,  wipe  dry,  roll  in  flour,  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  in 
melted  butter,  and  cover  the  pan.  Let  them  cook  for  five 
minutes  till  they  are  nicely  browned  on  both  sides. 


80  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Cucumbers. — Peel  them  deep,  and  slice  them  carefully. 
Half  an  hour  before  using  them  put  some  vinegar  and  salt 
on  them.  Stir  them  well,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place. 
Just  before  using  them  press  out  all  the  vinegar  and  water, 
add  a  little  fresh  vinegar  and  salt  if  needed,  and  dress  them 
with  oil  and  pepper.  They  should  be  well  stirred  and 
served  very  cold;  dress  with  vinegar. 

Lamb  CJiopsy  Broiled. — Cut  the  chops  from  the  loin  of 
lamb  through  the  kidney,  broil,  and  baste  with  butter  and 
salt. 

Pomme  Sara. — A  potato,  cut  with  a  peculiar  knife 
used  for  the  purpose;    can  be  fried  or  boiled. 

Eggs  en  Bechamel. —  Poach  the  required  number  of 
eggs,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish  in  Bechamel  sauce.  Garnish 
with  cress. 

Bechamel  Sauce. —  Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  an  ounce  of  flour,  and  mix  well  together,  add  an 
onion  cut  in  slices,  half  an  ounce  of  lean  raw  ham,  and  a 
small  portion  of  salt  and  pepper.  When  beginning  to 
color,  slightly  moisten  with  a  pint  of  milk,  and  stir  well 
until  boiling,  after  which  let  boil  ten  minutes  longer. 
Strain  and  serve. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 

Menu. 

Cream  of  Celery. 

Boiled  Sea  Bass.  Drawn  Butter. 

Potatoes  a  la  Duchesse. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton.  Currant  Jelly. 

White  Turnips. 

Mashed  Potatoes  Browned. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. 

Soup. —  Select  a  dozen  nice  fresh  celery,  pick  out  the 
choicest  part  for  your  table,  the  larger  outside  pieces  and 


CHOICE    RECIPES.  8l 

the  root  will  do  for  the  soup.  Remove  all  the  leaves  and 
the  green  part,  wash  well,  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and 
put  in  a  saucepan.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  a  little 
salt,  and  let  boil,  then  add  about  one  quart  of  good  beef 
stock,  and  let  boil  for  an  hour;  then  strain,  and  rub  the 
celery  through  a  fine  sieve,  keeping  the  liquor  hot.  Put 
in  another  pan  six  ounces  of  good  butter;  when  melted 
stir  in  four  ounces  of  flour,  fry  a  little,  and  then  dilute 
with  the  celery  stock,  adding  a  pint  of  cream,  and  bring 
to  a  boil.  If  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  stock;  season 
with  salt  and  white  pepper  and  a  little  ground  mace.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  one-third  of  a  cupful  of  cream , 
and  stir  rapidly  in  the  soup;  strain  again  and  serve. 
Small  pieces  of  bread,  cut  in  dice  size,  and  toasted,  may 
be  served  with  the  soup. 

Boiled  Sea  Bass  [Drawn  Butter). — Procure  two  good- 
sized  sea  bass,  cleanse  and  dress  well,  and  put  them  into  a 
fish  boiler  with  salted  water  and  a  gill  of  vinegar;  cover 
with  sheet  of  paper,  set  to  boil,  and  let  simmer  for  half  an 
hour.  Drain  and  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin,  surround 
with  parsley,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter  in  a  sauce-bowl. 
The  drawn  butter  sauce  is  made  by  melting,  slowly  and 
without  boiling,  a  half-pound  of  table  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, skimming  carefully,  and  mixing  in  thoroughly  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  a  sprinkling  of  pepper. 

Roast  Leg  of  Mutton  (with  Currant  Jelly). —  Cut 
the  shank  bone,  and  trim  the  knuckle  of  about  an  eight- 
pound  fat  leg  of  mutton,  beat  with  cleaver  to  break  the 
fibers  and  make  it  more  tender.  Roast  briskly  for  about 
an  hour  and  a  quarter;  dish  up  without  thrusting  any 
instrument  inside,  lest  the  juice  should  escape,  and,  after 
pouring  a  little  rich  gravy  (made  with  the  drippings)  over 


82  FACTS   FOR  LADIES. 

the  meat,  serve  with  a  mold  or  glass  of  currant  jelly 
turned  on  a  plate. 

White  Turnips. —  Peel  some  nice  fresh  white  turnips, 
and,  after,  cutting  them  in  quarters,  put  to  stew  in  cold 
water,  and,  when  about  done,  finish  boiling  in  milk  with 
salt,  a  little  red  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  and  serve  plain. 

Mashed  Potatoes  {Browned). — Fill  the  dish  you  intend 
to  serve  the  potatoes  in  with  mashed  potatoes,  and,  after 
smoothing  the  top  and  besprinkling  with  good  butter,  put 
on  the  shelf  of  a  hot  oven  till  browned,  and  then  serve. 

Bird's  Nest  Pudding. —  To  make  pudding  for  half  a 
dozen  persons,  pare  and  core  six  medium-sized  apples,  and 
put  them  in  a  dish  about  one  and  a  half  inches  deep,  and 
pour  in  the  dish  a  custard  very  near  to  the  top  of  the  apples, 
and  let  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  After  they  are  baked, 
fill  the  apples,  where  the  core  is  taken  from,  with  jelly,  and 
put  a  meringue  over  the  pudding  in  fancy  shape,  brown  in 
the  oven  again  for  a  minute,  and  serve.  For  the  custard, 
stir  together  four  eggs  and  four  yolks  of  eggs,  a  cup  and 
a  half  of  powdered  sugar,  a  quart  and  a  half  of  milk, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.  For  one  meringue,  beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs,  and,  when  stiff,  add  half  a  cup  of  pul- 
verized sugar. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes. —  Cut  an  onion  in  half,  trim  the 
ends  and  slice  it  finely,  and  put  the  pieces  into  a  frying-  pan 
with  two  large  spoonfuls  of  clarified  butter,  and  fry  it 
lightly.  Then  add  half  a  dozen  small  boiled  potatoes, 
cold  and  sliced,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  toss 
them  over  the  fire  until  slightly  browned.  Strain  the 
butter  off,  and  before  serving  add  a  little  finely  chopped 
parsley.  Another  manner  is  to  chop  the  onion  very  fine 
and  fry  a  little  in  butter,  cut  the  potatoes  in  dice-size  pieces, 


CHOICE    RECIPES.  83 

and  toss  until  brown,  and  add  the  chopped  parsley  before 
serving. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 
Puree  of  Green  Peas. 
Baked  Red  Snapper.  Tomato  Sauce.  Cucumbers. 

Roast  Quail  Stuffed. 
String  Beans.  Mashed  Potatoes. 

Rice  Pudding. 
Coffee. 

Puree  of  Green  Peas. —  Obtain  two  cans  of  American 
peas,  and,  after  straining,  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  adding 
a  slice  of  raw  ham,  an  onion  stuck  with  a  few  cloves,  cover 
with  a  gallon  of  good  beef  broth,  and  let  boil  for  an  hour. 
Then  remove  the  ham  and  onions  and  press  the  soup 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  put  to  boil  again,  adding  one 
half  a  pint  of  hot  cream,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  cupful  of  cream, 
and  stir  the  mixture  briskly  into  the  soup,  putting  in  also 
a  third  of  a  pound  of  good  butter,  and  stir  again  until  the 
butter  is  melted  and  thoroughly  mixed.  Sprinkle  over 
the  soup  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  it  will  be  ready  to 
serve. 

Baked  Red  Snapper.  —  Clean  a  red  snapper  of  medium 
size,  and  place  it  in  a  buttered  pan.  Cover  the  fish  with 
tomato  sauce  ;  also  put  upon  it  small  portions  of  butter, 
and  sprinkle  freely  with  bread  crumbs.  It  is  then  ready 
for  the  oven,  where  it  should  remain  forty  minutes,  or 
until  the  flesh  becomes  detached  from  the  backbone.  It 
should  be  served  with  tomato  sauce  poured  over  it. 

Tomato  Sauce. —  Put  in  a  saucepan  one  ounce  of  raw 
ham,  a  carrot,  an  onion,  very  little  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  two 
cloves,  a  small  clove   of  garlic   and    one  ounce  of  butter. 


84  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

After  these  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  add  an  ounce  of  flour 
well  mixed  in  one  quart  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  glass  of 
consomme  or  stock.  Let  all  boil  for  one-half  an  hour. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  the  least  portion  of  nut- 
meg.     Strain,  and  the  sauce  is  prepared. 

Roast  Quail,  Stuffed. —  Clean,  wash  and  wipe  dry 
the  desired  number  of  quails,  and  stuff  them  with  dry 
bread  or  meat  stuffing;  tie  them  securely  so  they  will  hold 
their  shape,  and  put  them  in  a  pan.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  pour  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  enough  to  cover 
the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  place  a  strip  of  bacon  over 
each  quail.  Cover  them  nicely  with  a  buttered  paper,  and 
let  the  quail  remain  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then 
remove  the  paper  and  return  the  pan  to  the  hot  oven,  that 
the  quails  may  be  browned,  turning  them  frequently. 
Serve  on  toast,  pouring  a  little  gravy  over  them  ;  the  re- 
mainder should  be  sent  to  the  table  in  a  sauce-bowl.  The 
gravy  is  made  by  putting  in  the  dripping-pan  in  which 
the  quails  were  roasted  one  pint  of  good  stock,  a  large 
spoonful  of  beef  bouillon,  and  letting  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Then  strain  and  remove  all  the  fat,  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Mashed  potatoes  make  a  good  dish  to  accom- 
pany birds  whose  meat  is  dry  and  not  juicy. 

String  Beans.  —  Take  a  can  of  string  beans,  strain  off 
the  liquid,  wash  again  in  cold  water.  Into  a  saucepan 
put  a  spoonful  of  butter,  and  then  put  in  the  beans. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and,  after  the  beans  are  well 
heated,  they  may  be  served. 

Rice  Pudding. —  Wash  six  ounces  of  rice,  changing 
the  water  several  times;  boil  it  in  boiling  water  for  ten 
minutes,  then  put  it  in  cold  water  for  a  moment,  drain  it 
and  put  into  a  saucepan   on   the   fire,  with   three  pints  of 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  83 

milk,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  a 
pinch  of  allspice,  and  a  very  little  nutmeg,  Let  these 
simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  and  one  by  one  four  eggs 
should  be  added,  and  stir  until  well  mixed;  pour  rice  into 
a  deep  dish,  previously  buttered,  and  place  in  an  oven 
until  well  colored,  then  remove  it  from  the  oven,  put  it 
on  ice,  and  serve  extremely  cold. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 

MENU. 

Tapioca  Soup. 
Boiled  Pickerel,  with  Melted  Butter. 

Boiled  Parisienne  Potatoes. 

Roast  Loin  of  Veal,  German  Style. 
Lettuce  Salad. 
Apple  Compote. 

Tapioca  Soup. —  Prepare  a  good,  strong  soup  stock, 
strain  it,  and  let  it  cool;  skim  off  all  fatty  substances,  and 
season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  this  stock 
a  few  stalks  of  celery,  one-half  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and 
stir  into  it  the  whites  of  six  eggs  after  beating  them,  also 
put  in  the  shells  after  crumbling  them.  Place  this  prep- 
aration on  the  range,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  it 
often,  as  it  easily  burns.  After  permitting  it  to  boil  gently 
for  five  minutes,  take  from  the  range  and  strain  the  stock 
through  a  napkin  into  a  clean  saucepan.  For  four  quarts 
of  stock  put  in  one  quarter  a  pound  of  tapioca,  and  let  it 
boil  for  forty  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 

Boiled  Pickerel. —  Procure  a  fresh-water  pickerel  or 
pike  about  five  pounds  in  weight,  clean  carefully,  and  tie 
the  head  to  the  body  with  a  string,  and  put  it  in  a  narrow 
fish  boiler  with  salted  and  acidulated  water  and  a  bunch 
of  parsley.      Put  a  sheet  of  paper  over  the  fish,andIetitcook 


86  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

slowly  for  one-half  an  hour.  Then  drain  it,  slide  the  fish 
on  a  platter,  garnish  with  lemons  and  parsley  and  serve 
with  butter  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat.  Parisienne  potatoes, 
boiled,  should  accompany  the  pickerel,  served  on  a  sepa- 
rate dish. 

Roast  Loin  of  Veal,  German  Style. —  In  the  first 
place  a  German  stuffing  should  be  prepared  as  follows: 
Parboil,  cool  and  press  the  water  out  of  two  white  chopped 
onions,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  four  ounces  of 
butter,  and  let  fry  until  they  become  soft.  Add  a  pound 
of  white  stale  bread  soaked  in  cold  water  and  well  pressed. 
Set  these  ingredients  over  the  fire,  and  stir  steadily  until 
they  assume  the  consistency  of  a  paste,  and  do  not  stick 
to  the  pan.  Add  a  couple  of  handfuls  of  boiled  ham,  cut 
in  small  squares,  four  egg  yolks,  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  nutmeg,  and  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  pepper.  Now 
bone  a  loin  of  veal,  season  it,  and  put  the  stuffing  just 
made  inside,  sew  the  opening,  roll  and  truss  lightly,  and 
place  the  veal  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  let  it  roast  for  two 
hours  to  a  brown  color.  Drain,  trim  and  put  on  a  plate. 
Add  a  little  broth  to  the  drippings  of  the  pan,  skim  off 
the  fat,  pour  over  the  veal,  and  it  can  be  sent  to  the  table. 
The  Germans  invariably  serve  lettuce  salad  with  roast 
veal. 

Apple  Compote. — Obtain  a  dozen  large  cooking  apples, 
and,  after  paring,  quartering  and  cutting  out  the  cores,  put 
the  pieces  in  a  saute  with  four  ounces  of  melted  butter, 
twelve  ounces  of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  cin- 
namon. Toss,  and  then  stir  them  on  a  brisk  fire  until 
pretty  stiff,  without  allowing  to  brown.  Let  cool,  and 
put  up  in  a  dome  form  in  a  large  compote  dish,  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  brown  all  over  with  a  red  hot  glaz- 


CHOICE    RECIPES.  87 

ing  iron,  garnish  with  cuts  of  currant  jelly,  and  the  com- 
pote is  ready  to  serve. 

CHOICE   RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley 's. 

MENU. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Broiled  Shad.         Parsley  Butter  Mangoes. 

Roast  Turkey,   Stuffed.       Cranberry  Sauce. 

Roast  Goose  Stuffed  with  Apples. 

Brown  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Mashed  White  Potatoes. 

Cardinal  Punch. 

Broiled   Quail.         Celery   Mayonnaise. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

Noisette  Panachee.         Apple,  Mince  and  Pumpkin  Pie. 

Coffee. 

Oyster  Soup. —  Two  dozen  and  a  half  of  the  largest 
fresh  shell  oysters  will  be  sufficient  for  eight  persons. 
The  oysters  should  be  stewed  in  their  own  liquor,  then 
strained,  put  in  a  soup  tureen  and  kept  warm.  Melt  in  a 
saucepan  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  good  butter,  stir  in  a 
spoonful  of  flour,  dilute  with  a  quart  and  a  half  of  hot 
milk,  adding  the  liquor  from  the  oysters.  Let  these 
ingredients  come  to  a  boil,  season  with  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne,  and,  after  mixing  one-half  a  pint  of  cold  cream 
with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  stir  the  mixture  rapidly  into 
the  soup.  Let  all  become  hot,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil. 
Strain  this  prepared  soup  over  the  oysters,  and  the  dish 
is  ready  to  be  served. 

Broiled  Shad. —  Cleanse  thoroughly,  split  open  and 
trim  a  couple  of  shad,  and  place  them  on  ice  at  least  one 
hour  before  they  should  be  broiled.  Rub  over  the  fish  a 
little  lemon  juice  and  a  little  olive  oil,  and  let  them  broil  for 
twenty  minutes  over  a  hot  fire.      Place  them  upon  a  plate, 


88  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

besprinkle  with  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and, 
after  garnishing  with  celery  leaves  and  lemon,  this  palata- 
ble dish  may  be  sent  to  the  table. 

Roast  Turkey,  Stuffed. —  Clean  and  truss  a  large  young 
turkey,  stuff  and  roast  for  2^  hours,  baste  often,  make  a 
sauce  from  the  drippings  in  pan  and  serve  in  sauce 
bowl. 

Stuffing. —  Soak  two  loaves  of  stale  bread  in  cold  water; 
chop  i  onion,  i  can  mushrooms,  i  doz.  marrons,  fine;  put 
onions  in  pan  with  butter  and  fry  light  brown;  add  mush- 
rooms, marrons,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage;  chop 
2  doz.  cooked  oysters  and  add  them;  press  soaked  bread 
dry,  and  mingle  with  this  mixture,  add  eggs,  and  stuff  the 
turkey. 

Roast  Goose,  with  Apples. —  Truss  and  singe  a  young 
fat  goose,  core  some  apples,  rub  the  inside  of  the  goose 
with  a  little  thyme,  salt  and  pepper,  fill  up  with  apples, 
and  roast  till  done.  Bake  a  few  apples  in  pan  with  goose, 
and,  when  you  are  about  to  make  the  sauce  from  drippings, 
press  apples  through  sieve  with  sauce.  Baste  goose 
often,  but  do  not  stick  fork  in  the  bird  when  turning. 

Cranberry  Sauce  — This  sauce  can  be  made  an  orna- 
ment to  the  table  also,  instead  of  being  served  in  the  old- 
fashioned  way.  After  the  cranberry  sauce  is  strained  and 
boiled  for  twenty  minutes  with  the  sugar,  put  it  in  a  mold, 
and  keep  it  in  an  ice  chest  to  cool.  When  the  turkey  is 
served,  turn  the  jelly  from  the  mold  upon  a  plate  to 
accompany  it. 

Broiled  Quail. — Great  care  should  be  taken  in  broiling 
quail,  for,  if  they  are  not  properly  cooked,  they  will 
become    dry  and    tasteless.      Let    the   quail    broil  slowly, 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  •  89 

and  baste  them  frequently  with  butter.  Serve  on 
toast  with  a  small  strip  of  bacon. 

Celery  Mayonnaise. —  Cut  some  nice  white  celery 
into  small,  regular-sized  pieces  and  mix  with  mayonnaise, 
not  too  thick. 

English  Plum  Pudding. —  Have  the  following  ingre- 
dients ready  for  use:  One  cup  each  of  small  raisins,  cur- 
rants, layer  raisins  and  chopped  beef  suet;  one-half  cup 
each  of  flour,  molasses  and  brandy;  one-half  of  a  loaf  of 
white  bread,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  allspice,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  each  of 
cloves,  mace  and  ginger,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar,  and  half  a  dozen  eggs.  Soak  the  bread  in  cold 
water  and  squeeze  it  dry.  Wash  the  fruit  and  keep  it 
moist.  Chop  the  suet  very  fine  with  flour.  Put  all  the 
ingredients  together  in  a  bowl,  mix  them  well,  and  let 
them  remain  over  night.  If  it  should  be  too  stiff  in  the 
morning,  add  a  little  milk.  Let  the  preparation  steam  for 
five  hours.  Turn  out  on  a  deep  platter,  pour  a  portion 
of  brandy  over  the  pudding,  set  it  on  fire  and  serve. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 
Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 

MENU. 

Tapioca  Soup  with  Rice. 

Fresh  Mackerel  with  Wine  Sauce. 

Stewed  Potatoes. 

Boiled  Partridge,  Celery  Sauce. 

Broiled  Potatoes. 

Asparagus  Salad. 

Neapolitan  Cream.         Cake. 

Coffee. 

Tapioca  Soup  with  Rice. —  Prepare  three  quarts  of 
good,  clear  beef  broth,  let  boil,  stir,  and  then  drop  slowly 


90  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

into  four  ounces  of  pulverized  tapioca,  and  let  boil  again 
for  one  half  an  hour.  Cook  separately  six  ounces  of  rice 
in  white  broth,  drain,  and  put  with  the  tapioca,  and  this 
mixture  should  be  boiled  a  few  minutes;  then  skim, 
season  to  taste,  and  pour  it  into  a  soup  tureen.  After 
mixing  in  a  spoonful  of  chopped  parsley  the  soup  will  be 
ready  for  the  table. 

Fresh  Mackerel.— -Cleanse,  wash  and  wipe  dry  three 
fresh  mackerel,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  chopped 
onion,  a  little  butter,  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  pepper,  a 
portion  of  parsley,  and  one-half  a  pint  of  white  wine. 
Cover  the  pan,  and  let  the  fish  cook  slowly  for  one-half  an 
hour.  Then  drain  the  fish,  and  add  one-half  a  pint  of 
white  broth  to  the  gravy.  Knead  two  ounces  of  flour 
with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  this 
mixture.  After  it  is  boiled  for  a  few  minutes  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  then  strain  this  preparation  and 
pour  it  over  the  fish.  The  top  of  the  fish  should  then  be 
covered  with  fine  breadcrumbs  and  small  portions  of  but- 
ter. Place  the  pan  in  a  warm  oven,  and  let  it  remain  till 
the  mackerel  is  baked  to  alight  brown  color.  Remove  it 
from  the  oven,  press  the  juice  of  a  lemon  over  it,  and  the 
mackerel  is  ready  to  serve  in  the  baking  dish. 

Stewed  Potatoes. — Cut  the  required  number  of  raw 
potatoes  in  small  dice-shaped  pieces,  and  let  them  stew 
in  salt  water  until  nearly  done.  Pour  off  the  water,  and 
cover  the  potatoes  with  hot  cream  or  milk  and  a  spoonful 
of  butter,  and  finish  boiling  them.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  they  may  be  served. 

Boiled  Partridge,  Celery  Sauce. — After  nicely  dress- 
ing four  fat  partridges,  cover  their  breasts  with  thin  slices 
of  larding  pork,  and   put  the   birds  in  a  stew-pan  with  a 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  9 1 

sliced  onion  and  a  carrot,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  one  quart  of 
water  and  a  little  salt.  Cover  the  pan,  and  let  boil  slowly. 
When  they  are  done,  drain  the  partridges,  and  dish  them 
up  on  dry  toast,  pouring  over  them   a  thick  celery  sauce. 

Celery  Sauce. —  Obtain  two  dozen  celery,  and  clean 
well  the  roots  and  outer  stalks,  and,  after  cutting  them  in 
small  pieces,  put  to  boil  in  cold  water,  and  let  remain  for 
an  hour.  Strain  and  press  the  celery  through  a  fine  sieve, 
and  keep  it  hot.  Put  in  a  saucepan  one-half  pound  of 
good  butter,  and,  when  it  is  melted,  stir  into  it  one  large 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  dilute  with  the  prepared  celery 
stock,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  If  too  thick,  add 
a  little  hot  milk.  Mix  three  yolks  of  eggs  with  one-half  a 
teacup  of  cream,  and  stir  rapidly  into  the  sauce.  Strain 
the  sauce  over  the  partridges,  before  sending  them  to  the 
table. 

Asparagus  Salad. —  Strain  off  all  the  juices  from  two 
cans  of  American  asparagus,  and  put  all  the  aspara- 
gus in  cold  water  for  a  minute,  and  then  arrange  it  in  a 
two-quart  brick  mold,  pour  some  French  dressing  over  it, 
and  put  the  asparagus  in  an  ice-box.  When  it  is  ready 
to  serve,  carefully  turn  it  from  the  mold  upon  a  plate, 
that  its  shape  may  be  preserved.  A  French  dressing  is 
made  of  one  part  vinegar,  four  parts  of  oil,  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 
Furnished  by  Kinsley 's. 

MENU. 

Mutton  Broth,   French  Style. 

Boiled  Halibut,   Fleurette   Sauce. 

Sliced  Potatoes,  with  Cream. 

Venison  Steaks,  with  Olives. 

Broiled  Sweet    Potatoes. 
French  Artichokes,  Dressed. 


92  FACTS    FOR   LADIES, 

Mutton  Broth,  French  Style. — Pare  a  mature  and 
not  too  fat  fore-quarter  of  mutton,  saving  the  chops  for 
an  entree,  bone  the  shoulder,  tie  it  with  a  string,  trim  the 
breast,  and  put  all  except  the  chops  in  a  soup  pot  with  a 
couple  of  pounds  of  soup  beef,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  two 
carrots,  a  turnip,  a  head  of  celery,  and  onion  with  four 
cloves  stuck  in,  and  two  gallons  of  water.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  set  the  soup  pot  over  the  fire,  skim  the 
broth  well,  and  let  boil  slowly  for  two  hours.  The  breast 
and  shoulder  can  be  taken  from  the  pot  and  used  for 
another  meal  as  cold  mutton  or  stew.  Let  the  broth  boil 
two  hours  longer,  adding  stock  or  hot  water  enough  to 
make  broth  sufficient  for  the  persons  to  be  dined.  Skim 
the  grease  from  the  broth,  and  strain  the  latter  through  a 
napkin.  Cut  thin  sippets  of  French  bread,  and  put  in  the 
tureen  with  one  pint  of  cooked  barley.  Pour  the  boiling 
broth  into  a  tureen,  and  it  may  be  served. 

Boiled  Halibut. — Boil  a  piece  of  halibut,  about  four 
pounds  in  weight  in  salted  water,  acidulated  with  a  glass 
of  boiled  white  wine  vinegar.  Remove  it  to  one  side, 
where  it  can  simmer  for  forty  minutes  on  the  range. 
Drain  the  fish,  slide  it  on  a  plate,  garnish  with  parsley,  and 
it  will  be  ready  for  the  table. 

Fleurette  Sauce. — Fleurette  is  the  first  skimming  of 
milk,  and  quickly  comes  to  a  boil.  Knead  in  saucepan 
three  ounces  of  butter  with  one  ounce  of  flour,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper;  dilute  with  one  pint  and  a  half  of  fleurette, 
hot,  stir  over  the  fire,  and  let  boil  a  moment,  and  the  sauce 
will  be  prepared. 

Venison  Steak. — Four  venison  steaks,  weighing  four- 
teen ounces  each,  will  be  sufficient  for  eight  persons. 
Flatten  them,  pare  a  little,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  93 

baste  with  oil,  and  broil  rare  over  a  brisk  fire.  Stone  and 
parboil  three  dozen  olives;  then  drain  and  put  in  one  pint 
of  Madeira  sauce.  Dish  up  the  steaks,  pour  over  them 
the  sauce  and  olives,  and  send  to  the  table. 

Broiled  Sweet  Potatoes. — Boil,  let  cool,  and  peel  the 
number  of  large  sweet  potatoes  required.  Slit  them  in 
two  or  three  slices,  dip  in  melted  butter,  and  place  them 
in  a  double  gridiron.  Broil  a  light  brown  on  both  sides, 
dish  them  up,  and,  after  pouring  some  melted  butter  over 
the  potatoes,  they  may  be  served. 

French  Artichokes.  —  Fresh  artichokes  should  be  boiled 
in  salted  water  for  about  an  hour.  They  then  should  be 
drained,  put  in  cold  water,  and  placed  in  the  ice  box. 
When  ready  to  serve,  take  from  the  water,  wipe  dry,  place 
on  a  plate  and  send  to  the  table.  Canned  artichokes 
should  be  placed  in  ice-cold  water  for  fifteen  minutes 
before  serving  them.  The  dressing  to  accompany  them 
is  made  by  mixing  two  large  spoonfuls  of  vinegar  with  one 
of  chopped  parsley,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  eight 
spoonfuls  of  good  olive  oil. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 

MENU. 

Puree  a  la  Colbert. 

Baked  Oysters  in  Shells. 

Mangoes.  Stewed  Potatoes. 

Salmi- of  Wild  Duck. 

Browned   Sweet   Potatoes. 

Vegetable  Salad,  with  Artichokes. 

Ice  Cream.  Cake. 

Coffee. 

Puree  a  la  Colbert. —  Remove  the  green  leaves  from 


94  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

five  stalks  of  celery,  and  the  same  number  of  chicory,  and 
let  the  stalks  parboil  for  five  minutes,  and,  after  draining, 
chop  them  fine  and  press  out  the  water,  and  put  them  in 
a  saucepan  with  six  ounces  of  butter;  fry  a  little,  and 
then  cover  the  dish,  and  then  let  cook  for  one-half  an  hour. 
Besprinkle  with  three  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  mix  well,  and 
dilute  with  three  and  one-half  quarts  of  light  chicken  or 
veal  stock,  add  a  little  salt,  white  pepper,  and  nutmeg, 
boil  for  five  minutes,  strain  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve, 
stir  and  boil  again,  finish  with  a  liaison  consisting  of  three 
yolks  of  eggs  mixed  with  one  pint  of  cream  and  two 
ounces  of  butter  in  small  bits.  Mingle  well  on  the  fire, 
without  boiling,  add  eight  poached  eggs,  or  one  for  each 
person,  and  serve. 

Baked  Oysters  i?i  Shells.  —  Boil  two  quarts  of  oysters 
with  their  liquor,  a  little  stock  with  a  morsel  of  butter. 
Drain  the  oysters  upon  a  cloth,  and  strain  the  liquor 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Thicken  about  one-half  of  the 
liquor  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  kneaded  with  an  ounce  of 
flour;  stir  and  let  boil  for  five  minutes,  and  finish  with  a 
sprinkling  of  salt,  white  and  red  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Then  stir  in  rapidly  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  mixed  with  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  mix  in  the 
oysters.  Butter  slightly  eight  or  more  large,  deep  and 
well  shaped  oyster  shells,  and  fill  them  with  the  prepared 
oysters.  Sprinkle  over  them  pulverized  crackers,  and 
also  put  a  few  small  bits  of  butter  on  each  shell.  Range 
them  in  a  baking-pan  and  place  them  in  a  hot  oven  for 
about  ten  minutes  until  they  are  slightly  browned.  Dish 
up  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  they  are  ready  for  the  table. 
Companion  dishes   are  cold   boiled    potatoes    cut  in  small 


ELLEN    TERRY. 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  95 

diced  pieces  and  stewed  in   cream,   and  mangoes,    which 
can  be  obtained  from  a  grocer. 

Salmis  of  Wild  Duck. —  Roast  three  wild  ducks,  cut 
them  in  pieces,  pare  nicely,  and  keep  warm  in  a  saucepan. 
But  bruise  and  put  all  the  trimmings  and  bones  into  a 
saucepan  with  two  glasses  of  sherry  wine,  two  and  one- 
half  pints  of  stock,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  bay  leaf,  two  cloves, 
a  few  pepper  leaves,  sprays  *of  parsley,  with  a  few  sliced 
shallots,  and  let  all  boil  briskly  for  twenty  minutes.  Strain 
through  a  colander,  and  afterward  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Then  add  one-half  a  jar  of  Kinsley's  condensed  beef,  and 
let  boil,  reducing  it  to  the  required  thickness.  Squeeze 
in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  stir  in  two  ounces  of  butter, 
season  with  a  little  salt,  and  pour  this  sauce  over  the 
ducks,  and  mix  in  about  thirteen  olives  stoned  and 
parboiled.  Salmis  should  be  served  upon  a  deep  platter, 
surrounded  with  fancy-shaped  croutons  fried  in  butter. 
Finish  by  sprinkling  a  little  chopped  parsley  on  top. 

Vegetable  Salad,  with  Artichokes. —  Take  the  arti- 
chokes from  two  cans  of  them,  and  put  in  cold  water  for 
ten  minutes.  Boil  one  day  previous,  two  large  carrots 
and  one  large  turnip,  keep  them  in  cold  water  over  night, 
then  slice  them  about  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  and 
with  a  tube  cutter  cut  out  small  pieces  from  these  slices, 
and  mix  these  together  with  one-half  a  can  of  French 
peas,  and  one-quarter  can  of  French  string  beans  (cut  in 
small  pieces),  and  dress  with  French  dressing.  Line  a 
salad  plate  with  lettuce  leaves,  and  put  on  these  the  arti- 
chokes, sprinkle  over  a  little  French  dressing,  fill  each 
artichoke  with  the  vegetable  salad,  and  also  put  on  each 


96  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing,  and 
serve  very  cold. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley^s. 

MENU. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 
Broiled  Shad,  with  Roe. 

Cucumbers. 

Breast  of  Mallard  Duck. 

Sweet  Potatoes.  Fresh  Mushrooms. 

Apricot  Fritters,  Brandy  Sauce. 

Coffee. 

Vermicelli  Soup. —  Prepare  a  good  beef  stock,  strain, 
skim  off  the  fat  and  let  cool.  Chop  up  one  pound  of  raw 
beef,  and  mix  with  it  an  onion  and  carrot,  sliced,  a  little 
parsley,  and  four  eggs,  shells  included.  Stir  this  mixture 
into  the  soup  stock,  and  set  the  stock  over  the  fire  to 
come  to  a  boil,  occasionally  stirring  it  that  it  may  not 
burn.  After  it  has  slowly  boiled  for  ten  minutes,  strain 
it  through  a  napkin,  and  season  to  taste.  Boil  the 
required  amount  of  vermicelli  (one-quarter  a  pound  will 
suffice  for  eight  persons)  in  salt  water,  strain,  then  mix 
with  soup  prepared,  and  serve.  The  salted  water  should 
be  boiling  before  putting  in  the  vermicelli. 

Broiled  Shad  with  Roe. — One  large  shad  will  be  suf- 
ficient for  six  persons.  After  splitting  the  fish,  removing 
the  roe,  and  cleaning  well,  spread  it  out  upon  a  pan, 
besprinkle  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  the  juice  of  one- 
half  a  lemon  and  a  little  oil  or  melted  butter.  Let  the  fish 
now  stand  in  the   ice   box  till   ready  to  broil.      Baste  well 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  97 

during  broiling;   and,    when  it  is  cooked,  put  on  a  plate, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon,  and  serve. 

Breast  of  Mallard  Duck. — Select  four  nice  mallard 
ducks  for  eight  persons,  or  so  that  one  duck  should  sup- 
ply two  persons.  Pick,  draw  and  clean  them  nicely,  cut 
out  carefully  the  two  breasts  or  fillets,  lard  them  neatly, 
and  put  them  in  a  cold  place.  Roast  the  remaining  parts 
of  the  ducks;  the  legs  and  carcases  can  be  used  for  a 
game  soup  or  salmis  of  duck.  Put  in  a  saucepan  one- 
third  of  a  jar  of  Kinsley's  or  some  other  condensed  beef, 
and  melt  with  one-half  a  pint  of  water.  Roast  the  breasts 
of  the  ducks  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven,  and  then  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  little  butter,  and  let  them  brown 
on  both  sides,  but  be  rare.  Pour  over  the  breasts  the 
melted  beef  bouillon,  and  a  jigger  of  Madeira  wine,  a  lit- 
tle red  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

Fresh  Mushrooms. — Peel  and  clean  the  mushrooms 
and  wash  th.em  in  cold  water.  Let  them  parboil  in  slightly 
acidulated  water  for  three  minutes,  drain  and  fry  in  good 
butter,  and  serve  with  the  duck  on  the  same  plate. 

Apricot  Fritters,  Braitdy  Sauce. —  Strain  off  the  liquor 
from  one  can  of  apricots,  and  boil  it  with  one  pint  of  water, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  and  one-half  a  sliced  lemon.  While 
boiling,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  mixed  with 
water,  boil  for  a  minute  longer,  strain,  add  one  jigger  of 
brandy,  and  keep  hot.  Place  the  apricots  on  a  sieve,  and 
take  them  one  by  one  and  dip  them  in  the  batter,  fry 
brown  in  plenty  of  hot  fat,  besprinkle  with  sugar,  and  this 
toothsome  dish  will  be  ready  for  the  table.  The  batter  is 
made  with  one-half  pound  of  sifted  flour,  a  little  cold  milk 


98  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.   Mingle  in  carefully  the  whites 
of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsetys. 

'MENU. 

Soup  a  la  Chevalier. 

Stewed  Lobster,  Gloucester  Style. 

Fried   Potatoes. 

Curry  of  Chicken  with  Rice. 

Baked  Macaroni. 

Broiled  Quail,  Celery  Mayonnaise. 

Coffee. 

Soup  a  la  Chevalier, —  Prepare  a  good  chicken  broth 
with  three  large,  fat  hens,  and,  when  the  fowls  are  done, 
take  them  from  the  pot  and  let  cool.  But  strain  the  broth 
and  skim  off  all  fat,  and  bring  to  a  boil  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Grate  the  rind  of  four  small 
French  rolls.  Cut  the  rolls  in  four  pieces,  soak  these 
pieces  in  cold  cream  for  an  hour,  strain  them,  and  keep 
them  on  a  wire  strainer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Then  dip 
these  pieces  in  beaten  eggs,  fry  them  brown  all  round  in 
butter,  and  when  done  put  on  a  plate  and  keep  them  hot. 
Shred  the  leaves  from  half  a  dozen  celery  very  fine,  and 
put  them  in  boiling  water  for  five  minutes.  Strain  and 
put  in  chicken  broth,  sprinkle  in  about  one-half  of  the 
gratings,  and  then  serve  the  soup.  When  dishing,  put  in 
each  plate  a  piece  of  the  fried  roll. 

Steived  Lobsters. —  Obtain  four  medium-sized  boiled 
lobsters,  and  take  the  meat  from  their  tail  claws;  cut  it 
into  slices,  and  range  on  the  serving  dish,  cover  it  over 
and  keep  the  the  meat  warm.  Knead  to  a  paste  in  a 
large   bowl    two  ounces  of  pulverized   crackers,  with  six 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  99 

ounces  of  melted  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley; 
white  and  red  pepper.  Boil  in  a  saucepan  one-half  of  a 
jar  of  Kinsley's  or  some  other  brand  of  condensed  beef, 
with  a  glass  of  sherry  wine,  and  stir  into  this  gradually 
and  steadily  the  mixed  paste,  but  it  should  not  be  allowed 
to  boil,  and  finish  with  the  creamy  substance  of  the  lob- 
sters. Press  this  preparation  through  a  sieve;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  mingle  well,  pour  over  the  lob- 
ster, and  serve  at  once.  The  sauce  should  be  thick,  but, 
if  it  curdles,  put  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  stir 
with  an  egg  beater. 

Curry  of  Chicken,  with  Rice. —  The  chickens  from 
which  the  soup  a  la  Chevalier  is  made  should  be  used  for 
this  dish;  cut  them,  and  trim  them  into  regular  pieces. 
Melt  one-half  pound  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  mix  in  a 
small  cup  of  flour,  and  after  this  mixture  has  become  hot, 
stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder;  dilute  with  one 
quart  and  a  half  of  stock,  stir  to  a  smooth  sauce,  and  let 
boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put 
in  a  cut  chicken,  and  keep  the  pan  covered.  Arrange  on 
your  platter  a  border  of  boiled  rice,  place  in  the  center 
the  chickens  taken  from  the  saucepan,  strain  the  same 
over  both  the  chickens  and  rice,  sprinkle  a  little  chopped 
parsley  over,  and  this  palatable  dish  is  ready  for  the 
table. 

Baked  Macaroni. —  Boil  water,  slightly  salted,  in  a 
saucepan,  put  in  one  pound  of  macaroni,  let  boil  for 
twenty  minutes,  strain  and  place  the  macaroni  in  cold 
water.  Prepare  one  pint  of  cream  sauce,  mingle  it  in  the 
macaroni  after  cutting  it  in  regular  sized  pieces,  and  add 
one  large  spoonful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Put  this 
preparation  in  a  baking   dish,  cover  with  grated  cheese, 


IOO  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

grated  bread  crumbs,    and  melted  butter,  and  bake  to  a 
brown  color.     This  dish  should  be  served  hot. 

Broiled  Quail. —  Carefully  pick  and  clean  the  quails, 
split  them  ready  to  broil,  and  keep  them  cold  in  an  ice 
box  until  one-half  hour  before  they  are  desired  for  the 
table.  Then  broil  them  over  a  hot  fire,  baste  frequently, 
and  serve  the  quail  on  toast,  after  placing  a  small  piece 
of  bacon  on  top. 

Celery  Mayonnaise. —  Mix  with  French  mayonnaise 

some  celery,  cut   in  small  pieces,   and    serve  on  lettuce 

leaves. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley^s. 

Bouillon. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. 

Cutlet  of  Minced  Sweetbreads.  Fresh  Mushrooms. 

Lettuce   and   Tomato    Salad. 

Glace.  Cake. 

Coffee. 

Bouillon. — Prepare  a  good  soup  stock  by  boiling 
vegetables  with  beef  and  bones;  strain,  skim  and  let  cool; 
then  chop  fine  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  mix  with  half  an 
onion  sliced,  half  a  carrot  sliced,  one  bay  leaf,  one  bunch 
of  parsley,  one  stalk  of  celery  and  eight  raw  eggs.  Mix 
all  together  thoroughly;  then  mix  in  one  gallon  of  cold 
soup  stock,  two  jiggers  of  sherry;  put  on  fire,  let  come  to 
a  boil  slowly  (stir  often,  to  prevent  burning);  if  handled 
according  to  above  directions,  you  will  have  a  clear, 
sparkling  consomme;  strain  through  a  napkin,  season 
with  salt,  and  serve  hot  in  cups. 

Lobster  a  la  Newburg. —  For  eight  persons  cut  open 
four  lobsters,  and  remove  the  meat  from  the  shells;  put 
the  meat  in  water  and  keep  cold;  chop  the  shells  and  body 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  IOI 

of  lobster;  put  in  saucepan  with  one  pint  of  water  and 
one  half  a  pound  of  butter,  put  on  fire,  cover  tight  and 
cook  for  forty  minutes,  then  strain,  and  put  the  liquid  in 
a  cool  place.  The  butter  will  now  have  the  color  and 
flavor  of  the  lobster,  and  will  come  to  the  surface  in  a  cool 
place  and  harden  again.  Take  lobster  from  water,  dry 
with  napkin,  cut  in  regular-sized  pieces,  add  two  dozen 
nice  mushrooms,  and  put  in  saucepan.  Put  in  another 
saucepan  the. butter  from  the  lobster.  When  melted  stir 
into  it  one  kitchen-spoonful  of  flour,  then  dilute  with  one 
and  a  half  pints  of  hot  cream,  let  boil,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  finish  with  a  liaison  of  three  eggs  and  two  jiggers 
of  sherry,  pour  over  the  lobster  and  mushrooms,  and 
serve  very  hot  on  toast,  or  in  paper  cases,  or  in  Romaine 
cups  . 

Cutlet  of  Sweetbreads. —  Cut  eight  large  blanched 
sweetbreads  in  small  dice  size  pieces,  and  boil  in  stock 
with  one  sliced  lemon  for  ten  minutes;  then  strain  the 
stock  off  the  sweetbreads,  remove  the  lemon,  and  mix  the 
sweetbreads  with  one  quart  of  Bechamel  sauce,  let  boil, 
etc. ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  mace;  finish  with 
a  liaison  of  six  eggs  and  one-fourth  pint  of  white  wine  and 
one-fourth  pound  of  butter;  spread  this  mixture  in  a  pan 
to  cool;  when  cold  it  should  be  firm;  then  shape  into  the 
form  of  croquettes,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten 
eggs,  and  roll  in  crumbs  again,  fry  brown  in  plenty  of  hot 
fat  and  serve. 

Fresh  Mushrooms. —  Clean  and  peel  the  mushrooms 
and  boil  them  in  salted  and  acidulated  water  for  about 
five  minutes,  if  large  ones,  then  spread  out  in  a  pan  with 
melted  butter  and  let  fry;  as  soon  as  they  show  signs  of 
browning,  cover  tightly  and  set   in  oven  for  ten   minutes; 


102  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

they  will  be  brown  and  yet  done  soft.  Dish  up  the  cro- 
quettes on  plate,  surround  with  mushrooms,  and  besprinkle 
all  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  very  hot. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley^s. 

MENU. 

Mutton  Soup  a  la  Cowley. 

Fried  Shad  Roe. 

Tomato  Sauce.  Cucumbers. 

Fillet  of  Beef,  Braised. 

Potato  Croquettes.         Fresh  Mushrooms. 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Ice  Cream.     Cake. 

Coffee. 

Mutton  Soup  a  la  Coivley. —  Select  a  fleshy  and  not 
too  fat  rack  of  mutton;  cut  the  spine,  pare  and  shorten 
the  ribs,  and  put  in  a  soup  pot  with  the  parings  and  shoul- 
der of  mutton  three  pounds  of  soup  beef,  a  little  salt  and 
two  and  a  half  gallons  of  water;  let  all  boil,  scum,  add 
two  carrots,  two  turnips  and  one  onion  with  four  cloves 
stuck  in  it,  a  piece  of  garlic,  two  heads  of  celery,  and  a 
few  peppercorns;  cover  and  let  boil  for  two  hours;  after 
taking  out  the  rack  and  shoulder  of  mufton  let  the  rest 
boil  two  hours  longer,  then  remove  all  the  fat  and  strain 
the  stock  through  a  wet  napkin;  in  the  meantime  have 
cut  in  small  squares  two  carrots,  two  turnips  and  a  head 
of  celery,  and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  two  ounces  of 
butter;  fry  slightly  brown,  add  three  quarts  of  broth,  and 
let  boil  an  hour;  divide  the  rack  into  eight  or  more  nicely 
cut  chops,  warm  in  a  little  boiling  broth,  and  put  in  a  soup 
tureen  with  one  pint  of  barley  boiled  three  hours  and  well 
drained;  take  off  the  fat  from  the  soup,  color  with  a  little 
caramel,  pour  over  the  chops,  and  serve. 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  103 

Fried  Shad  Roe,  Tomato  Sauce. —  Select  the  quantity 
of  shad  roe  wanted,  put  on  plate,  besprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil,  and  keep  in  ice 
box  till  wanted,  then  wipe  dry  and  roll  in  flour  ;  then  dip 
in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter  ; 
when  brown,  cover  pan  tightly,  and  set  in  warm  oven  for 
six  minutes;  then  arrange  on  platter,  garnish  with  parsley, 
and  serve.     Send  tomato  sauce  in  sauce-bowl. 

Fillet  of  Beefy  Braised  —  Procure  a  good  fillet  of  beef 
weighing  about  eight  pounds,  and,  after  nicely  larding  it, 
put  it  in  a  pan  with  spices  and  sliced  vegetables,  and 
moisten  with  one  pint  of  claret.  After  covering  it  with  a 
buttered  sheet  of  paper,  the  pan  should  be  placed  in  the 
oven  to  roast.  When  nearly  done  remove  the  paper  and 
glace  the  fillet  brown,  and  make  a  sauce  from  the  drippings 
and  serve  with  the  fillet. 

Fresh  Mushrooms. —  In  salad  bowl  dressed  with 
French  dressing.  Quarter  or  slice  the  tomatoes,  fill 
in  center  of  bowl,  cover  with  mayonnaise  and  serve. 

Potato  Croquette. —  After  boiling  ten  large  potatoes 
till  they  are  done,  drain  and  mash  with  three  ounces  of 
butter  and  the  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Cool  these  mashed 
potatoes  by  spreading  them  out  upon  a  plate,  after  which 
they  can  be  formed  into  the  shape  of  a  croquette  rolled 
in  cracker  meal,  and  dipped  into  beaten  eggs.  After 
rolling  these  croquettes  once  more  in  cracker  meal,  they 
should  be  fried  brown  in  plenty  of  hot  fat.  They  will  be 
then  ready  to  serve,  which  should  be  done  upon  a  folded 
napkin. 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad. —  Place  between  napkins 
in  an  ice  box  the  lettuce  required  after  it  has  been  care- 
fully picked  and  washed.      Peel  the  necessary  number  of 


104  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

tomatoes  and  keep  them  cool.     When  this  dish  is  required 
at  the  table,  dress  the  lettuce  and  arrange  it. 

'.CHOICE   RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's, 

MENU. 

Chicken  Gombo. 

Brandade  de  Morue  (Codfish). 

Cold  Slaw. 

Boiled  Potatoes. 

Spring  Lamb.  Mint  Sauce. 

French  Peas.  New  Potatoes. 

Broiled  Snipe  on  Toast. 

French  Artichokes. 

Dessert.  Coffee. 

Gombo  of  Chicken. —  Select  a  tender,  fleshy  and  not 
too  fat  chicken;  singe,  draw  and,  cut  in  small  pieces;  put 
in  a  stew-pan  three  ounces  of  butter,  with  a  chopped 
onion,  and  two  ounces  of  ham  cut  in  small  squares;  fry  a 
little,  add  the  chicken,  stir  and  fry  the  whole  slightly 
brown;  sprinkle  two  ounces  of  flour  over  well,  mingle 
well,  dilute  with  three  quarts  of  broth,  add  white  and 
sweet  Chili  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  parsley;  stir,  boil, 
cover  and  cook  slowly  for  forty  minutes,  skim  off  the  fat, 
remove  the  parsley,  let  drop  in  the  soup  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  gombo  powder,  stirring  all  the  while,  boil  no  longer, 
season  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Brandade  de  Morue. —  Have  four  pounds  of  thick 
dry  cod,  take  off  the  skin,  cut  the  fish  in  pieces  and  soak 
in  cold  water  for  four  hours,  changing  the  water  four 
or  five  times;  put  in  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  until 
very  hot,  but  not  boiling,  for  twenty  minutes;  drain, 
remove  all  the  bones,  put  the  fish  in  a  saucepan  and  crum- 
ble with   a  wooden  spoon;  then  move   to   the   side  of  the 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  105 

fire,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and,  little  by  little,  about  a 
pint  of  the  best  sweet  oil,  stirring  vigorously  all  the  while, 
and  dropping  a  little  milk  in  when  the  preparation  becomes 
too  thick;  when  this  is  done  the  brandade  should  be 
creamy  and  pretty  consistent;  finish  with  a  little  garlic 
and  chopped  parsley  (if  desirable)  fried  in  a  little  oil,  add 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  if  necessary,  and  serve  with  fresh 
boiled  potatoes  and  a  bowl  of  cold  slaw. 

Roast  Lamb. —  Procure  a  quarter  of  lamb,  trim  and 
roast  in  a  hot  oven  so  as  to  be  cooked  through  and  nicely 
browned  all  around;  make  a  gravy  from  the  drippings  in 
the  pan,  pour  the  gravy  over  the  lamb,  and  serve  with 
mint  sauce  in  separate  bowl.  Chop  one  large  bunch  of 
green  mint  very  fine,  and  mix  with  one  pint  of  white  wine 
vinegar  and  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar; 
stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  serve.  This  sauce  can 
also  be  boiled  and  cooled  again  to  make  a  stronger  mint 
flavor.  Open  two  cans  of  French  peas,  wash  in  cold 
water,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  piece  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  and  toss  over  a  fire  to  become  thoroughly  hot, 
and  serve.  New  Bermuda  potatoes  are  best  plain  boiled; 
still,  they  are  nice  in  cream  sauce,  or  roasted  a  little  and 
browned  in  good  butter. 

Broiled  Snipe  on  Toast. —  Pick,  singe  and  draw  the 
number  of  snipes  wanted,  split  open  for  broiling  and 
wash  the  birds,  season  and  broil  quickly  so  as  to  be 
brown,  still  a  little  rare,  baste  frequently  with  butter,  put 
the  snipe  on  a  piece  of  toast,  serve  a  small  piece  of  bacon 
with  it,  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

Fresh  Artichokes. —  This  plant  is  coming  to  be 
known  more  this  year  than  ever  before,  as  you  can  buy 
the  imported  or  smaller  (the  California  dwarf)  direct  from 


106  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

California.  Trim  properly,  boil  in  slightly  salted  and 
acidulated  water;  when  done,  drain  and  keep  in  cold 
water  in  ice  box.  When  ready  to  serve,  drain  and  pour 
over  a  French  dressing,  and  serve  one  for  each  person. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley  *s. 

Julienne  Puree. 

Fried  Smelts.  Cucumbers. 

Roulade  of  Spring  Lamb.  Mint  Sauce. 

Browned  Potatoes.  New  Asparagus. 

Brciled  Teal  Duck  on  Toast. 

Artichoke  Salad. 

Ice  Cream  or  Ices.  Cake.  Coffee. 

Julienne  Puree. —  Put  in  a  saucepan  one-quarter 
pound  of  butter  and  one  large  carrot,  one-half  turnip,  one 
onion,  one-quarter  head  of  cabbage,  all  sliced  very  fine, 
and  put  in  an  oven  for  about  forty  minutes,  then  cover 
with  stock  and  put  on  range  to  boil;  add  one  can  of  peas, 
and  slice  or  bone  of  ham,  a  little  chopped  celery  and  pars- 
ley, a  few  whole  peppers;  boil  for  one  hour,  then  strain 
and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve;  put  to  boil  again;  add  one 
pint  of  hot  cream;  finish  with  a  liaison  of  three  yolks  of 
eggs  and  two  jiggers  of  sherry;  season  to  taste  and  serve. 
This  is  a  good  spring  soup  if  made  with  new  vegetables. 

Fried  Smelts. —  Clean,  wash  and  wipe  dry  the  amount 
of  smelts  wanted,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in, 
melted  butter,  and  roll  in  bread  crumbs;  fry  brown  quickly 
in  hot  butter,  and  cover  the  pan  while  finishing  to  fry,  so 
as  to  keep  the  fish  moist.  Drain  off  all  fat,  and  serve  on 
folded  napkin,  garnished  with  lemons  and  parsley. 

Roulade  of  Spring  Lamb. —  Roast  in  quick  oven  so 
as  to  brown  all  over,  then  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
cook  through.  Serve  with  sauce  made  from  drippings  in 
pan  poured  over  it,  and  send  mint  sauce  separate  in  bowl. 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  107 

Boil  some  small  potatoes,  and,  when  nearly  done,  put  in 
pan  with  the  lamb  andlet  brown  by  basting  them  often. 

Roulade  of  Lamb. —  Bone  the  shoulder,  rib  and  loin 
part  of  a  lamb,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  roll  nicely,  tie 
with  string,  put  in  pan  with  sliced  vegetables  the  bones 
from  the  lamb,  one  pint  of  stock,  and  remove  the  strings 
from  the  lamb;  put  on  platter,  surround  with  browned 
potatoes,  pour  sauce  over  it,  garnish  with  mint;  send  to 
table  hot. 

New  Asparagus. —  Trim  and  scrape  the  asparagus, 
parboil  in  salted  water,  then  boil  in  slightly  acidulated 
water  till  done;  serve  on  toast  with  drawn  butter  poured 
over  or  a  cream  sauce  made  with  the  water  in  which  the 
asparagus  has  been  boiled. 

Broiled  Teal  Duck.  —  Pick,  singe  and  clean  the  number 
of  teal  ducks  wanted,  split  and  lay  open,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  broil  a  little  rare,  baste  often  with  butter, 
and  serve  very  hot  with  small  strip  of  broiled  bacon. 

Artichoke  Salad.  —  Two  cans  of  artichoke  hearts  will 
be  enough  for  eight  persons;  take  out  eight  of  the  arti- 
choke hearts,  dip  in  French  dressing,  and  arrange  on 
salad  plate;  have  under  each  artichoke  a  leaf  of  lettuce; 
take  the  remainder  of  the  artichokes,  cut  in  small  dice 
pieces,  mix  with  mayonnaise,  and  fill  each  of  the  eight 
artichokes  with  it;  keep  in  ice  box  till  wanted,  and  serve 
very  cold. 

CHOICE   RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 

Julienne  Soup. 

Whitefish  Nonpareil. 

Parisienne  Potatoes. 

Roast  Red  Head  Duck,  with  Jelly. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Steamed   Apple  Dumpling. 


108  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

Julienne  Soup. —  Prepare  a  good  consomme  soup. 
Cut  a  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  and  one-eighth  head  of  cab- 
bage in  long,  thin  shreds  ;  mix  all  together,  and  put  in  a 
copper  saucepan  with  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  cover 
with  an  oiled  paper,  and  then  with  the  cover  of  the  pan, 
and  put  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  an  hour;  then  take  out 
and  boil  in  the  consomme  for  twenty-five  minutes,  skim 
off  the  fat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one-half  can 
of  French  peas  and  ateaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

White  fish. —  Split  the  whitefish,  remove  all  the  bones, 
and  put  the  fish  in  a  buttered  pan,  slice  a  small  carrot,  a 
lemon,  and  an  onion,  and  put  over  the  fish  with  a  bay 
leaf  a  few  whole  peppers,  and  one  pint  of  white  wine  ; 
cover  with  an  oiled  paper,  and  put  in  oven  to  cook  through; 
put  in  saucepan  one-half  pound  of  butter,  and,  when 
melted,  mix  with  one-third  of  a  pound  of  flour  and  stir 
over  a  hot  fire  for  a  minute,  dilute  with  the  stock  from  the 
fish  and  enough  hot  water  to  make  a  nice  sauce  ;  stir  into 
it  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  season 
to  taste  and  strain  ;  put  the  fish  on  a  platter,  cover  with 
sliced  mushrooms,  shrimps,  and  a  few  oysters,  and  strain 
the  sauce  over  it,  besprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley 
and  serve;  surround  the  fish  with  boiled  Parisienne 
potatoes. 

Roast  Duck. —  Pick  the  required  number  of  ducks  dry, 
singe  all  the  hair  off,  draw  and  cleanse  thoroughly,  truss, 
place  in  each  duck  a  stalk  of  celery,  and  put  in  a  pan  to 
roast,  baste  often  ;  if  required  rare,  twenty  minutes  in  a 
hot  oven  is  enough;  send  to  table  as  soon  as  done,  serve 
currant  jelly  separate  and  a  dish  of  sweet  potatoes,  baked 
in  butter  so  as   to   be   brown  all  round  ;   steam  the  sweet 


CHOICE   RECIPES.  109 

potatoes  first  until  nearly  done,  then  peel,  and  roast  in 
butter. 

Dumplings. —  Make  a  paste  with  a  pound  of  flour, 
warm  milk  and  one-half  ounce  of  salt;  roll  out  on  floured 
table  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  six-inch 
square  pieces;  pare  and  core  the  amount  of  apples  wanted, 
fill  with  powdered  sugar,  and  put  the  apples  in  the  center 
of  each  piece  of  paste,  folding  the  corners  over  each  apple; 
put  in  a  steamer  and  steam  one  hour;  serve  sweetened 
cream  with  the  dumplings. 

CHOICE  RECIPES. 

Furnished  by  Kinsley's. 

Menu. 

Iced  Bouillon. 

Fillet  of  Sea  Bass.  Cucumbers. 

Roast  Spring  Chicken,  Stuffed. 

Green  Peas.  New  Potatoes  in  Cream. 

Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Red  Raspberries  and  Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 

Cake.  Coffee. 

Iced  Bouillon. —  Prepare  a  good  beef  broth;  clarify, 
and  strain  through  a  napkin,  let  become  cold  in  a  stone 
jar;  then  place  in  an  ice  box  to  cool  more  without  freez- 
ing. Serve  in  cold  cups.  This  makes  a  good  soup  for 
hot  weather. 

Fillet  of  Bass. —  Black  sea  bass  are  very  good  now. 
Cut  two  fillets  out  of  each  fish,  season,  roll  in  flour  and 
fry  slightly  brown  in  butter;  then  cover  frying-pan  and 
place  in  oven  for  ten  minutes.  The  fish  will  be  thor- 
oughly cooked,  at  the  same  time  not  as  crisp  as  fried  fish 
generally  comes  to  the  table. 

Roast  Spring  Chicken. —  Pick,  singe  and  clean  care- 
fully the  number  of  chickens  wanted;  stuff,  tie  carefully, 


IIO  FACTS   FOR  LADIES. 

and  roast  in  medium  hot  oven;  turn  often  so  as  to  brown 
all  around,  but  do  not  stick  the  fork  in  the  meat,  as  the 
juice  escapes  very  quickly;  baste  often  when  brown,  cover 
with  an  oiled  paper,  keep  in  oven  till  done;  serve  with  a 
thick  sauce  made  from  the  drippings  in  pan;  cover  and 
let  stand  for  five  minutes;  put  in  saucepan  one-third 
pound  good  butter;  when  melted,  mix  with  one-third  cup- 
ful of  flour,  dilute  with  one  and  a  half  pints  of  boiling 
cream  or  milk;  boil  for  a  moment,  season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper,  and  strain  over  potatoes;  keep  covered  and 
hot,  but  do  not  boil  any  longer. 


RECEPTION   HALL. 


HOUSE  DECORATION. 


THE  Orientals  clothed  themselves  in  colors.  Their 
garments  were  decorated  with  figures  which  recorded 
events  in  their  history,  or,  not  unlike  those  that  came 
after,  were  the  products  of  imagination.  Decoration 
came  in  with  the  creation.  Long  before  the  first  architect 
dreamed  of  a  structure,  the  inhabitants  of  the  plains  living 
in  tents,  had  the  material  for  their  shelter  "  hand-painted," 
and  the  entrances  to  them  were  hung  with  draperies  on 
which  were  symbols  and  history  and  poetry. 

We  are  given  to  speaking  of  the  progression  of  the 
age  in  which  we  live.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  this  age  has 
only  harmonized  that  which  made  the  world  beautiful 
when  its  Creator  brought  it  from  chaos  and  sent  it  revolv- 
ing in  space  to  the  music  of  the  morning  stars,  which  — 

"  Sang  o'er  the  rising  ball. " 

In  the  course  of  time,  when  the  tents  of  the  plains 
had  been  folded  and  the  peoples  of  those  ages  began  to 
build,  we  find  them  decorating  their  houses  with  material 
and  designs  similar  to  those  with  which  they  wrapped 
themselves. 

The  customs  of  the  earth  changed;  the  maps  of  the 
hemispheres  have  been  altered  by  revolutions,  and  history 
has  been  written  and  forgotten. 

"  A  thousand  years  their 
Gloomy  wings  expand," 


112  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and  we  find  the  women  of  our  civilized  era  paying  court 
to  a  carpet  weaver  to  create  something  in  colors  and  com- 
bination for  wearing  apparel,  and,  having  adorned  them- 
selves with  the  fabrics,  they  have  "  parted  their  raiment," 
and  given  parcels  of  it  to  festooning  their  homes,  making 
them  places  of  beauty  and  full  of  rest. 

Penelope  was  not  unlike  her  sex  of  the  present  genera- 
tion. She  never  finished  her  web.  That  which  she  deftly 
did  by  day  was  torn  and  destroyed  by  night.  She 
resumed  her  work  in  the  morning  with  eagerness,  and  im- 
proved upon  it  by  making  it  more  elaborate  and  beautiful. 

The  woman  of  the  present  generation  removes  to-day 
that  which  she  used  yesterday  to  make  her  home  a  picture. 
There  is  no  continuity  in  decoration,  and  there  should 
be  none.  "  The  house  beautiful  "  would  lose  its  reputa- 
tion for  artistic  interior  if  it  remained  always  the  same. 

I  want  my  home  made  beautiful;  adorn  it  lavishly 
as  you  may.  What  are  the  designs?"  was  the  remark 
and  interrogatory  of  a  woman  of  refinement  and  wealth, 
to  a  man  who  has  made  a  life-study  of  the  work. 

"  There  are  no  designs,"  he  replied.  "  Decoration," 
he  continued,  "  is  a  thing  of  personality.  No  one  road, 
though  the  thoroughfare  may  be  a  royal  one,  will  lead  to 
any  one  design,  or  school  of  decoration.  There  is  every- 
thing to  consider  —  paradoxical  as  it  may  sound,  there  is 
nothing  to  consider." 

He  was  right. 

Said  another  man  whose  study  it  is  to  make  homes 
beautiful:  "  Who  is  your  architect?  Is  he  building  for  the 
purpose  of  sheltering  you  merely?  or  is  he  building  with  a 
view  to  decoration?  Is  the  structure  to  be  modern  or 
ancient?     Is  it  of  brown  stone,  gray,   block   or   pressed 


HOUSE   DECORATION.  I  I  3 

brick?  How  are  the  rooms  to  be  arranged?  How  many 
windows  in  your  reception-room?  how  many  in  your 
parlor?  how  many  in  your  library?  What  about  the 
communications  between  them?  " 

The  gentleman  to  whom  these  queries  were  pro- 
pounded, answered,  interrogatively:  "  Don't  you  think 
you  are  going  back  pretty  far?  " 

"  Not  at  all,"  was  the  reply.  "  In  fact,  I  began  in  the 
middle  of  the  chapter.  I  should  have  asked  you  about 
the  location  of  your  lot.  Is  it  on  a  corner?  If  so,  which 
corner?  And  what  is  your  front?  What  light  will  you 
get?  Suppose,  to  come  down  to  this  first  principle,  your 
front  is  east  or  south,  your  light  will  be  strong,  will  it  not? 
Strong  light  calls  for  heavier  shades  than  a  light  which  is 
milder.  If  the  location  calls  for  heavier  shades,  it  follows 
that  you  do  not  want  your  house  to  resemble  anything 
that  is  light  or  fantastic." 

In  a  later  conversation  the  decorator  said:  "  What 
would  you  think  if  I  told  you  that  our  concern  has  in  the 
basement  a  rope  and  tackle  for  the  purpose  of  elevating 
certain  articles  of  furniture  into  houses?  The  architects 
have  built  the  house  in  such  a  manner  that  ordinary  furni- 
ture cannot  be  put  through  the  entrances.  I  do  not  say 
that  such  a  house  cannot  be  decorated  within.  You  can 
decorate  anything.  The  realm  of  decoration  is  so  wide 
that,  it  reaches  the  meanest  abode.  Why,  you  can  make 
anything  beautiful.      Did  you  ever  think  of  that?  " 

HARMONY  FOR  THE  EYE. 

Decoration  is  to  the  eye  what  music  is  to  the  ear.  If 
there  is  a  discordant  note  in  the  latter,  its  effect  is  such  as 
to  at  once  break  the  enchantment.      If  there  is  an  over- 


114  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

attempt  in  decoration  or  a  miscalculation  in  blending,  the 
eye  is  so  sensitive  in  its  organism  that  it  is  offended. 

Bear  in  mind,  there  can  be  no  decoration  where  there 
is  no  harmony. 

"  Evidently,"  says  madam,  who  is  the  high  priestess 
of  the  temple  that  is  to  be  decorated,  "  there  must  be  a 
beginning.  Granted  that  harmony  is  the  beginning,  the 
middle  and  the  terminus  of  decoration.  What  next?  I 
am  here  for  ideas,  no  matter  how  much  individuality  there 
may  be  in  decoration." 

And  madam  is  quite  right.  Let  us  begin  at  the 
beginning — conceding  that  the  lot  is  on  any  corner  or  in 
the  middle  of  the  block,  and  also  conceding  that  the  archi- 
tect has  come  up  to  the  proper  expectations. 

The  decorator  begins  where  the  woodworker  has 
left  off.  The  lord  of  the  manor,  with  the  assistance  of 
madam  and  the  architect,  have  had  the  woodwork  done 
according  to  their  own  ideas.  It  is  light  or  dark,  as  they 
may  have  decided.  It  is  of  cherry  or  oak,  or  bird's-eye 
maple  or  mahogany. 

The  decorator  sees  what  it  is,  and  he  uses  it  as  a 
basis  for  his  work.  If  he  is  master  of  his  work,  he  harmon- 
izes his  hangings  and  drapings,  and  walls  and  friezes,  and 
the  general  furnishings,  with  the  woodwork.  He  must  do 
this.  While  there  may  be  individuality  in  the  design, 
there  must  be  one  general  rule  governing  the  whole.  So 
the  musician  makes  the  score  of  his  creation.  It  has  the 
element  of  harmony  throughout;  the  movements  thrown 
into  score  are  the  little  designs  and  the  filigree — the  indi- 
viduality, so  to  express  it. 

"  There  is  one  thing,"  said  a  gentleman  who  is  au- 
thority in  the  work  of  beautifying,  "  which  I  would  like  to 


WOMAN S   KINGDOM.  115 

impress  upon  the  American  people,  and  that  is  this:  No- 
where on  the  face  of  the  earth  is  there  such  wood  as  we 
grow  in  this  country  for  decoration  and  the  finish  of  our 
houses.  There  isn't  any  of  the  wood  used  in  our  houses 
which  is  not  as  susceptible  of  high  finish  and  polish  as  any 
Parian  marble  that  was  ever  quarried.  There  is  no  deco- 
ration which  gives  a  home  the  same  effect  as  these  Ameri- 
can woods,  I  care  not  which  one  may  be  selected.  I 
fancy,"  he  continued,  "  that  no  sane  man  in  this  age  of  the 
world  would  allow  a  decorator  to  grain  his  wood.  I  must 
say  that,  so  enthusiastic  am  I  upon  the  matter  of  finishing 
homes  in  natural  wood,  that  it  seems  to  be  running  to  the 
cheap  and  gaudy  to  see  a  room  finished  in  Lincustra- 
Walton,  or  some  other  material  that  is  showy,  but  never 
possessed  of  that  beauty  which  accompanies  durability. 
Nor  would  I  advise  any  man  to  finish  in  white.  You 
know  there  was  a  time  when  the  interior  had  to  be  a  glassy 
white  or  a  dull.  There  is  no  demand  for  that  any  more. 
Good  sense,  to  say  nothing  about  taste,  has  relegated  white 
to  other  places.  Do  not  understand  me  as  saying  that  a 
white  and  gold  in  the  proper  place,  is  not  a  handsome  fin- 
ish and  an  effective  one.  You  may  have  touches  of  it  in 
your  salon,  if  the  other  decorations  are  in  harmony." 

WOMAN'S    KINGDOM. 

The  Home  of  the  Heart  —  What  Makes  It  the    Sweetest   and    Dear- 
est Place'on  Earth. 

I  come  now  to  that  kingdom  where  women  are 
queens  —  a  kingdom  which  has  no  lines  of  royalty  and 
no  crests,  and  yet  one  that  is  more  to  the  heart  of  woman 
than  any  realm  of  a  titular  dignitary. 

It  is  the  home  in  which  nations  are  educated.  If 
it  be  true,  and  surely  it    is,  that,  though  it  be  ever   so 


Il6  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

homely,  there  is  no  place  like  home,  what  shall  be  said  of 
the  homes  of  refinement  and  culture  of  the  present 
time?  Surely  there  is  a  field  in  this  decorating  of  the 
homes  in  which  women  may  have  the  proudest  distinction. 
It  is  here  where  she  may  elaborate  to  the  utter  content- 
ment of  her  own  nature;  here  she  may  bring  to  bear  the 
little  conceits,  the  pretty  things  which  creep  out  from  the 
nooks  and  corners,  the  surprises  from  the  hitherto  neg- 
lected spots.  Here  she  sits,  like  Penelope,  again  creating, 
though  the  work  be  destroyed  the  next  hour.  She  beau- 
tifies more  than  ever  after  the  destruction.  Here  there  is 
nothing  in  which  ingenuity  cannot  hold  revel.  There  is 
nothing  too  elaborate  —  there  is  nothing  too  simple  to  turn 
into  something  that  peeks  out  at  an  unexpected  moment, 
in  an  unexpected  nook. 

A  lady  in  Chicago  who  has  a  knack  of  making  an 
ensemble  of  simple  things,  took  a  cast-away  shoe  of  her 
baby,  and  bronzed  it.  Into  the  opening  she  inserted  a 
brass  bucket — a  tiny  one,  which  cost  her  three  cents  —  and 
this  was  put  on  the  writing  desk  of  her  husband,  and  into 
it  he  knocks  the  ashes  of  his  cigars. 

Let  me  enter  the  house  beautiful,  and  take  up  its 
beauties,  those  that  are  elaborate.  Come  with  me  in  the 
exploration  of  this  field,  that  has  such  limits  that  any 
woman  may  find  in  them  somewhere  a  sphere  adapted  to 
herself. 

THE   RECEPTION    HALL. 

Let  us  enter  the  house  at  once.  Here  is  the  recep- 
tion hall. 

It  is  the  same  with  your  house  as  it  is  with  your 
newly  formed  acquaintance.      The   first    impression  is  the 


RECEPTION   HALL. 


THE   RECEPTION   HALL.  117 

most  lasting.  It  is  not  always  the  most  correct.  But  the 
general  rule  governs. 

Look  to  it  that  your  guest,  as  he  crosses  the  thresh- 
old, and  enters  your  reception  hall,  feels  that  he  is  already 
at  home,  though  he  knows  further  progress  is  barred. 

There  are  opportunities  for  making  a  reception  hall 
cozy  and  inviting,  in  the  manner  of  adorning  the  walls 
and  ceilings.  There  should  always  be  a  suggestion  of 
warmth  and  cheeriness  in  this  entrance  to  a  home.  These 
effects  are  obtained  in  tones  of  color  which  we  get  in  wall 
papers,  and,  of  course,  which  can  be  produced  in  all  man- 
ner of  tinting  of  the  walls  and  frescoing.  It  is  also  pro- 
duced in  textile  goods.  The  woodwork  introduces  very 
largely  antique  oak,  birch,  red  oak,  and  red  and  white  oak. 

If  it  is  decided  to  carpet  the  reception  hall,  stair  and 
stair-landing,  moderate-sized  figures  in  body  Brussels  and 
Wilton  offer  very  strong  and  effective  furnishings  in  rug 
designs  which  are  taken  from  Oriental  rugs,  the  facsimile 
both  in  color  and  almost  in  every  particular.  There  are 
Wilton  carpets  which  are  perfect  reproductions,  in  design 
and  colorings,  of  existing  rugs  which  are  recognized  as 
very  rich  and  rare  rugs.  Outside  of  the  Oriental  designs 
offered  for  carpets,  small  figures  in  damask  effect  are  con- 
sidered particularly  desirable. 

In  hangings,  as  before  intimated,  there  is  a  wide  field, 
for  reception  hall  and  reception-room  alike.  There  is  the 
double-faced  plain  velours,  which  give  two  different  effects 
of  coloring.  We  find  antique  blue  upon  one  side  and  old 
rose  upon  the  other.  We  find  gold  and  bronze,  and 
mahogany  and  copper  tones  of  color.  In  fact,  in  the 
velour  line,  there  is  quite  a  variety  of  fashionable  tones  of 
color,  which  arrange  themselves  amongst  the  best  lines  of 


Il8  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

stuff  offered  for  this  work.  These  plain  velours,  when 
coming  single-faced,  can  be  used  to  contrast  one  with  the 
other>  and  can  be  decorated  with  French  metal  ornaments, 
which  come  in  great  variety,  and  make  strong,  rich,  pleas- 
ing furnishing  effects.  The  plain  Amure  and  satin  sheet- 
ings are  also  used  in  the  same  manner.  French  tapestries 
are  one  of  the  finest  styles  of  hangings  that  can  be  pos- 
sibly offered  for  hall  work,  and  they  come  in  rich,  beauti- 
ful tones  of  color,  and  in  designs  and  colorings  becoming 
the  situation. 

THE    DRAWING-ROOM. 

The  drawing-room  is  French.  So  is  the  salon.  With 
us,  in  general,  it  is  the  reception-room  or  the  parlor. 
There  are  houses  where  we  find  a  salon  and  a  parlor,  or  a 
parlor  and  a  reception-room,  or  a  drawing-room  and  a 
parlor. 

In  the  more  exclusive  circles  it  is,  perhaps,  safe  to 
say  "  drawing-room  "  is  proper  or  takes  precedence. 

There  is  a  recollection  about  "  drawing-room  "  which 
is  pleasing.  It  runs  back  to  the  last  days  of  the  kingdom, 
and  the  daylight  of  the  empire. 

It  is  the  room  where  there  is  an  oblivion  to  the 
"  fluctuations  and  vast  concerns  "  as  well  as  the  annoying 
perplexities  of  life.  It  is  where  the  very  best  part  of  us 
comes  to  the  surface.  It  is  the  throne  of  the  home.  It 
is  where  words  are  weighed  and  where  actions  are  com- 
plete with  harmony,  where  language,  whatever  it  may  be, 
is  gloved,  and  where  the  tout  ensemble  is,  as  our  own 
Oliver  Wendell  Holmes  would  say,  "  Rainbow-scarfed  and 
diamond-crowned. " 

Women  love  it  for  its  freedom  from  cares  and  for  the 
conquests  which  it  offers.      Men  bow  to  it,  for  it  is  where 


THE   DRAWING-ROOM.  119 

they  are  measured,  and  where  they  triumph  or  fail.  It  is 
this  place,  to  come  a  little  nearer  to  every-day  parlance, 
where  we  "  pass  master. " 

What  will  you  make  it? 

The  English  renaissance  and  the  medieval  are  too 
heavy.  They  produce  an  atmosphere  of  gloom,  and  that 
splendid  glitter  which  assembles  there  would  be  in  eclipse 
surrounded  by  either  of  the  styles  referred  to. 

To  be  explicit  and  brief,  the  drawing-room  is  deli- 
cate, intricate  and  elaborate.  There  should  be  subtle 
proportions,  "  the  daintiest  of  handiwork  and  the  fairest  of 
colors  ?  " 

It  is  for  evening  almost  exclusively —  not  necessarily; 
but  it  is  oftener  seen  under  the  chandelier's  light  than  in 
daylight.  Cream  white  and  gold  stand  the  test  of  arti- 
ficial light. 

You  will  see  to  it  that  in  this  room  there  is  nothing 
that  would  make  one  think  of  comparison.  In  a  word, 
let  it  be  as  clean  cut  as  the  masts  of  a  vessel  in  the 
face  of  a  setting  sun,  taking  care,  of  course,  that  nothing 
severe  appears.  It  can  be  and  must  be  something 
elegant. 

As  it  is  no  place  for  lounging,  it  would  seem  that  in 
the  drawing-room  proper  there  should  be  no  easy-chairs. 

The  hangings  will  be  rich  and  light.  Let  us  say  that 
the  light  from  the  window  should  be  mellowed,  restful 
and  dreamy  ;  by  night,  subdued,  not  glaring. 

You  may  rest  assured,  that,  in  forming  the  room 
where  your  company  shall  be  entertained,  nothing  will 
give  you  complete  satisfaction.  "  No  pent-up  Utica " 
contracts  you  here;  no  bank  account,  no  taste,  no  com- 
bination will  ever   rest  and  "cry  hold,   enough,"  in   the 


120  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

completion  of  this  room.  Do  not  misunderstand  this.  It 
is  not  to  be  inferred  that  splendors  are  essential. 

"  Full  many  a  gem  of  purest  ray  serene, 
The  dark,  unfathomed  caves  of  ocean  bear, " 

and  many  a  bright  and  charming  drawing-room  has 
left  a  lasting  impression  upon  the  mind  of  the  guest, 
because  of  its  simplicity  and  the  harmonious  arrangement 
of  its  contents. 

Still,  no  woman  was  ever  content  unless  she  dreamed 
of  what  she  would  like  to  have.  Is  it  out  of  place  to  say, 
between  the  lines,  that  discontent  invariably  follows  pos- 
session  ? 

I  believe  that  the  majority  of  intelligent  women 
will  admit  that  Mrs.  Cleveland  is  complete  mistress  of  all 
that  beautifies  and  makes  a  home  complete.  "  She  has 
recently  furnished  a  home  of  her  own,"  is  the  way  a  New 
York  newspaper  put  it.  And  here  is  a  description  in 
brief  of  her  drawing-room: 

"  It  is  finished  off  in  white  and  gold.  Mrs.  Cleveland 
has  made  it  an  oddly  pretty  room  by  furnishing  it  in 
colonial  style.  No  two  pieces  in  the  room  are  of  the  same 
pattern,  though  mostly  in  mahogany,  and,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  piano,  which  is  modern,  no  article  is  less 
than  a  century  old.  Even  the  rugs  on  the  polished  hard- 
wood floor  have  softened  the  steps  of  slippered  feet  for 
ten  or  fifteen  decades. " 

These  antiquated  articles,  however,  are  not  at  the 
command  of  every  one. 

There  are  other  designs  for  furnishing  and  decorating 
such  a  room  —  did  I  say  other  designs?  Where  do 
they  end  ? 


THE    DRAWING-ROOM.  121 

Let  us  proceed  at  once  to  consider  one: 

There  is  an  agreeable  effect  in  woodwork,  either 
white  or  ivory  white,  either  perfectly  plain  or  with  lines 
of  gold,  in  contrast  with  the  hard  woods  of  the  other 
rooms  in  the  house.  It  also  takes  soft  and  pleasing  tints 
of  color  for  the  side  walls  and  ceiling  of  the  room.  For 
the  side  walls  and  ceiling,  plain  papers  are  used,  with  bold 
contrasting  friezes  in  soft  tones  of  color,  and  the  ceiling  is 
done  to  harmonize;  or,  the  side  walls  may  be  frescoed  — 
also  the  ceiling  —  in  soft  tones  of  color,  cream  predomi- 
nating. Light  rose,  pale,  delicate  blues,  and  soft  ivory 
tints,  are  offered  for  the  predominating  tones  of  color  to 
be  used  in  this  work.  If  textile  goods  are  used  upon  the 
side  walls,  soft  tones  of  color  are  offered  in  French  damask 
silks  or  in  medium  weight  French  damask  goods ;  in  all 
silk,  or  silk  and  cotton,  or  silk  and  worsted  —  to  be  used 
from  the  base-board  to  the  picture-rail  —  placed  upon  the 
wall  as  paper  is,  flat  and  plain,  and,  if  a  frieze,  done  in 
colors  to  harmonize  with  that  material.  The  ceilings  are 
also  done  in  colors  to  complement  the  side  walls. 

The  window  and  door  hangings  are  made  from 
material  to  associate  with  the  wall  work,  and  must  either 
be  in  the  same  class  of  goods  in  contrasting  colors,  or  can 
be  in  solid  colors  to  contrast  with  figured  wall  work.  To 
illustrate:  If  the  figured  silk  damask  is  used  on  the  side 
walls  in  ivory  blue,  you  should  use  on  the  windows  and 
doors  the  same  figured  damask  in  contrasting  colors  with 
the  wall  work,  say  old  rose  and  ivory. 

The  portieres  on  the  doors  can  harmonize  or  can 
contrast  both  the  walls  and  the  window  curtains.  Plain 
materials   might    suggest    themselves    for    the    portieres, 


122  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

embroidered  and    arranged  to  harmonize   with  both  walls 
and  window,  making  a  rich  and  harmonious  effect. 

Regarding  the  furniture,  let  it  be  moderate,  over- 
stuffed furniture  in  the  way  of  softness;  one  or  more 
arm-chairs,  a  lady's  chair  or  two  for  the  larger  pieces  of 
furniture;  satin  damask,  silk  and  tapestry,  French  velour, 
or  in  paneled  pieces  of  tapestry,  which  come  in  soft  and 
beautiful  colors,  and  appropriate  styles  of  designs  could  be 
used  without  the  woodwork  showing. 

If  woodwork  is  used,  it  would  suggest  itself  to  be 
woodwork  to  harmonize  with  the  room. 

If  the  room  is  white  and  gold,  the  furniture  should  be 
white  and  gold,  or,  if  it  is  cream  and  gold,  the  furniture 
should  be  cream  and  gold;  or  the  woodwork  might  be  all 
gold,  in  positive  contrast  with  the  woodwork.  In  case 
white,  the  woodwork  is  cream  and  gold,  you  would  cer- 
tainly introduce  a  light  hard  wood,  such  as  bird's-eye 
maple;  and  white  mahogany  would  be  considered  a  par- 
ticularly desirable  style  of  wood  for  the  parlor. 

The  mantel  should  also  be  handled  in  the  same  man- 
ner as  the  furniture  of  the  room,  being  made  to  comple- 
ment the  woodwork  of  the  room  proper,  or  made  to 
match  the  prominent  furnishing  features  of  the  room, 
such  as  the  chairs,  and  possibly  the  piano,  if  one  is  used 
in  the  parlor. 

The  pedestal  or  center  table,  or  ornamental  side  table, 
should  also  be  in  the  same  school  of  coloring  or  design. 
Onyx  is  introduced  favorably  in  tables,  stands  and  pedes- 
tals ;  also  in  the  mantel,  which  offers  a  very  desirable 
feature  to  associate  with  this  class  of  work. 

Gold  and  silver  and  oxidized  silver  are  suggested  for 
the  chandeliers. 


THE   DRAWING-ROOM.  1 23 

There  is  a  tendency  sometimes  to  make  the  reception- 
room  a  sort  of  combination,  to  throw  into  it  a  certain 
disorder  —  to  be  a  little  plainer,  to  make  it  a  place  for 
everybody  —  bohemia,  if  you  please. 

There  are  women  who  are  social  and  literary  at  the 
same  time.  They  like  the  appearance  of  people  who  are 
making  a  stir  in  the  world,  and  love  to  bring  such  within 
the  radius  of  their  home. 

They  do  not  care  for  the  Louis  XVI.  style,  nor  for  the 
silks  and  satins,  and  the  luxurious  upholstery  which 
marks  the  ease,  elegance  and  refinement  of  the  strictly 
social  and  domestic  woman. 

I  have  a  friend  in  Paris  who  sends  me  a  description  of 
the  reception-room  of  a  woman  who  is  such  an  one  as  is 
referred  to.     She  writes: 

"  I  have  been  to  call  on ,  who  lives  in  a  small 

hotel.  I  must  tell  you  something  about  her  reception- 
room,  where  I  met  some  artists  and  poets  and  some  of 
the  literary  lights  of  Paris. 

"  The  room  hasn't  the  benefit  of  the  artificial  light  of 
your  homes  in  Chicago.  Its  principal  light  comes  through 
a  bay  window,  which  swells  into  a  court.  This  bay  win- 
dow is  draped  with  tapestries.  The  walls  of  this  room 
are  tapestried  with  scarlet  stuffs  almost  hidden  by  pictures, 
medallions,  bronzes,  enamels  and  faience.  The  furniture 
is  curious  and  antique,  of  all  styles,  and  from  all  countries. 
Some  is  in  massive  wood,  turned,  incrusted  with  mother- 
of-pearl,  ivory  and  marquetry. 

"  I  saw  some  large  blue  Japanese  vases  as  tall  as  a  man, 
and  in  these  were  palms  and  bamboos.  I  saw  some  flag- 
ons and  great  goblets  in  carved  silver  and  incrusted  gold, 
crowns  of  gold  and  silver  laurel  leaves. 


124  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

"  On  a  credence-table  was  a  collection  of  curious  little 
mechanical  dolls,  dressed  in  rags,  and  representing  popu- 
lar types.  Opposite  was  a  chest,  of  which  the  top  is 
covered  with  small  antique  bronzes,  ivory  Japanese 
objects  and  Tonagra  statuettes,  antique  enamels,  old  ivory 
hunting  horses,  and  poniards  with  engrossed  handles. 

"  Scattered  about  the  room  were  all  sorts  of  exotic 
things:  Indian  masks,  Chinese  screens  and  stuffed  birds. 
In  one  corner  was  a  gilded  cage,  in  which  were  tropical 
birds  pluming  themselves.  Fancy  that.  How  odd  that 
would  seem  in  the  reception-room  of  one  of  your  Chicago 
society  women.  There  were  some  unfinished  busts  here 
and  there,  for  the  woman  is  something  of  a  sculptress. 
On  the  floors  and  on  the  backs  of  chairs,  were  skins  of 
soft-fur  tigers,  panthers,  wild-cats,  lynx,  beavers  and 
white  fox,  and  on  a  large  divan  two  great  white  bear 
skins,  making  a  royal  couch  for  her,  who,  in  her  lonelier 
hours,  stretches  out  on  them,  amid  heliotrope-colored 
silk  curtains  embroidered  with  gold.  In  this  room  she 
receives,  and,  to  be  candid  with  you,  there  was  a  bit  of 
abandonment  about  it  which  was  delightfully  intoxicating 
at  the  time,  although  I  fancy  you  and  I  would  tire  of  it 
if  it  were  offered  every  day." 

CARPETS    OR    RUGS. 

The  debate  as  to  what  is  most  appropriate,  the  car- 
pet or  rugs,  for  the  parlor  or  drawing-room,  is  not  yet 
closed.  The  disputants  on  either  side  have  produced 
good  arguments,  and,  at  the  time  this  work  goes  to  press, 
there  has  been  no  edict  furnished  by  any  authority  as  to 
what  shall  govern.  There  is,  it  must  be  confessed,  a 
finish  about  a  room  that  is  carpeted  which  will  never  pre- 


THE   LIBRARY.  125 

sent  itself  to  the  eye  where  rugs  are  used.  Per  contra, 
there  is  a  luxury  and  Oriental  ease  and  beauty  about  an 
arrangement  of  costly  rugs,  or  even  one  rug,  which  one 
will  never  find  in  a  carpet. 

But  suppose  you  decide  that  it  shall  be  a  carpet. 
Scotch  Axminsters  offer  rich  and  effective  furnishing,  owing 
to  their  soft  and  luxurious  effect  of  color,  and  the  richness 
of  pile.  The  Wiltons  and  velvets  are  also  rich  and  beau- 
tiful. The  extra  quality  of  Moquettes  offers  soft  and  beau- 
tiful tones  of  color,  and  makes  rich  carpets. 

It  is  proper  to  cover  the  entire  floor  of  the  drawing- 
room  or  parlor  whenever  carpets  are  used.  If  there  is  a 
hard-wood  floor,  and  you  wish  to  make  a  rug  carpet  or 
introduce  an  Oriental  rug,  you  can  do  so  by  leaving  a  fair 
margin  or  edge  of  woodwork  showing  around  the  room. 

THE    LIBRARY. 

Dreams,  books,  are  each  a  world ;  and  books,  we  know, 
Are  a  substantial  world,  both,  pure  and  good; 
Round  these,  with  tendrils  strong  as  flesh  and  blood, 
Our  past  time  and  our  happiness  will  grow. 

So  wrote  Wordsworth  in  his  "  Personal  Talk."  He 
wrote  before  the  commercial  age,  but  the  sentiment  lives 
after  him.  There  is  no  complete  home  without  a  library. 
It  is  an  era  of  books,  and,  of  the  purchasing  of  them  it 
may  be  as  truthfully  said,  there  is  no  end,  as  it  was  truth- 
fully said  in  the  beginning,  "  of  the  making  of  books  there 
is  no  end." 

It  is  no  part  of  this  work  to  indicate  what  books  you 
shall  place  upon  the  shelves  in  your  library.  What  was 
said  of  Lord  Byron  is  true  of  the  present  generation, 
"  What  books  he  wished  to  read  he  read." 


126  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

I  take  it  for  granted  that  the  intelligent  man  and 
woman  of  to-day  need  no  instruction  on  this  point. 

There  is  one  thing  which  comes  to  every  one  who 
has  books  —  a  care  for  them.  You  will  learn  to  love  your 
books  as  the  frosts  fall  upon  you.  There  is  nothing  in  a 
man's  house,  after  his  wife  and  children,  about  which  his 
affections  will  cling  as  tenderly  as  his  books.  There  will 
come,  in  the  life  of  every  one,  in  spite  of  affluence,  an 
hour  when  he  will  feel  an  inclination  to  commune  with  him- 
self. A  time  when  he  will  wish  for  the  laughter  in  the  halls  to 
cease;  a  time  when  the  wit  of  the  salon  will  lose  its  effect; 
when  the  grand  piano  is  still.  A  time  when  he  will  not 
sleep,  woo  he  it  ever  so  graciously. 

In  such  an  hour  he  seeks  the  rest  which  only  the 
library  furnishes.  He  holds  communion  with  the  masters 
who  have  illuminated  the  world.  He  may  not  bend  the 
knee  at  court;  but  it  is  his  to  sit  down  and  listen  to  the 
loftiest  inspiration,  and  to  be  a  child  at  the  shrine  of  wis- 
dom. 

Here  the  mother  gathers  her  jewels  about  her  and 
instils  into  their  minds  the  thoughts  which  travel  with 
them  in  the  years  that  follow.  Here,  when  "  daylight  is 
done,"  there  is  surcease  from  care  and  the  fluctuations 
and  vast  concerns  of  life's  busy  map. 

Make  it  complete.  It  is  the  sanctuary  of  your  home. 
Let  it  have  your  tenderest  care.  It  will  come  to  you  like 
a  benediction  oftener  than  you  may  be  willing  to  admit. 
So  far  as  the  things  of  this  world  are  concerned,  "  Have 
no  other  gods  before  "  this. 

Do  not  hide  your  books.  Next  to  the  face  of  your 
wife  and  your  children,  let  the  faces  of  your  books  look 
down  upon  you,  and  do  you  look  up  to   them.     A  man 


THE   LIBRARY.  1 27 

who  would  hide  a  book  would  put  a  mask  on    his   wife's 
face. 

Let  your  book-cases  have  glass  doors.  This  not  only- 
permits  them  to  be  seen,  but  affords  them  protection. 
The  arrangement  is  a  matter  of  taste  entirely.  You 
would  hardly  put  fiction  on  the  same  shelf  with  your 
books  on  science  and  theology. 

There  ought  to  be  a  table  and  a  desk  in  this  sanctu- 
ary, of  course.  And  what  a  countless  assortment  you 
have  at  hand  from  which  to  make  your  selection.  Do  not, 
I  pray  of  you,  be  niggardly  in  the  matter  of  furnishing 
this  holy  of  holies.  It  is  the  intellectual  dome  of  the  uni- 
verse. Let  it  be  clothed  with  a  livery  that  is  stately. 
Don't,  to  use  a  homely  coinage,  put  any  ginger-bread 
work  in  this  room.  Don't  permit  anything,  not  even  the 
paper-weight  upon  the  desk,  nor  the  paper  cutter,  to  have 
the  impress  of  anything  that  is  grotesque,  or  anything  that 
would  in  the  slightest  be  suggestive  of  levity. 

Don't  go  to  the  other  extreme  and  make  it  a  cave  of 
Adullam. 

Let  the  floor  be  covered  with  something  which  will 
deaden  all  sound.  It  may  be  a  rug  or  a  carpet.  How 
did  you  furnish  the  vestibule  hall  in  this  respect?  But 
whether  rug  or  carpet,  get  the  best.  A  house-furnisher 
says:  "  A  rug  is  certainly  the  desirable  thing,  or  rug 
design  in  a  carpet  of  body  Brussels  or  Wilton." 

The  woods  which  offer  themselves  as  most  desirable 
for  the  library  are  the  natural  cherry,  birch  and  oak. 
Generally  a  wood  is  used  in  contrast  with  the  hall,  dining- 
room  and  parlor,  to  be  an  agreeable  contrast  with  the 
other  woods  of  the  house.     This  applies  to  the  wood-work 


128  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

of  the  room  proper,  the  table,  chairs  and  book-cases  which 
are  all  done  in  the  same  wood. 

The  library  is  a  particularly  desirable  place  to  introduce 
goods  in  printed  form  or  in  woven  stuffs,  for  side  walls,  also 
in  printed  velvets.  There  are  wall  papers  which  also  come 
in  soft,  beautiful  tones  of  color  and  make  an  unusually 
good  effect. 

Tapestries  which  are  in  strong,  heavy  lines  of  color, 
and  are  bold  and  effective  in  design  for  the  colorings  for 
the  hall,  make  beautiful  portieres.  There  are  embroider- 
ies which  come  on  linen,  cotton  and  silk,  also  a  plain  silk, 
for  hangings,  such  as  table-spreads,  scarfs,  and  all  forms 
and  styles  of  decoration.  Likewise,  embroidery  for  por- 
tieres and  window-hangings,  which  are  among  the  most 
beautiful  of  embroidered  curtains. 

The  writing-desk  of  Charles  Dickens  stood  in  a  bay- 
window  at  Gad's  Hill.  Only  people  who  think  when  they 
read  and  write,  can  adequately  understand  how  appro- 
priate this  is.  As  he  lifted  his  eyes  occasionally  from  his 
work,  and  looked  out  upon  the  meadows  and  the  distant 
beauties  of  the  landscape,  how  often  did  the  novelist 
catch  fresh  inspirations  and  bring  them  to  him  in  troupes, 
as  if  they  were  children — and  they  were  children,  chil- 
dren of  his  fancy;  such  creations  as  do  not  come  to  every 
one  in  this  world. 

The  desk  in  the  window  is  one  of  the  most  charm- 
ing suggestions  for  the  library.  I  find  that  the  idea  is 
becoming  what,  for  something  better,  our  best  people 
call  a  fad.  Strange  they  never  thought  of  it  before, 
Here  is  a  description  of  one  of  these  window-desks, 
which  will  show  how  the  idea  maybe  enlarged  upon,  and, 
as  the  description  is  from  the  pen  of  a  gifted  woman,  it 


THE   LIBRARY.  1 29 

will  have  a  hundred  per  cent,  value  to  the  readers  of  this 
book.  She  says:  "  I  have  recently  seen  the  most  charm- 
ing adaptation  of  the  window-desk  idea,  to  a  corner  treat- 
ment. First  of  all,  a  heavy  curtain  hangs  on  a  rod,  which 
crosses  the  corner  and  cuts  it  off  from  draughts,  and 
secures  privacy.  Then  a  triangular  board  of  medium  size, 
rounded  in  front,  is  fitted  into  the  angle,  resting  on  small, 
iron  supports.  Above  this  are  two  shelves,  also  trian- 
gular, held  in  place  by  iron  brackets,  bronzed;  on  these 
stand  handy  books  of  reference.  To  the  left,  in  such  a 
position  that  its  rays  fall  directly  on  the  desk,  is  a  wall- 
lamp  in  a  bronzed  holder,  and  right  under  it  hangs  a 
pretty  calendar.  A  comfortable  writing-chair  stands  in 
front  of  the  board;  to  the  left  a  waste-basket;  to  the  right, 
a  book-rest,  holding  an  open  cyclopaedia.  The  curtain 
may  be  looped  to  one  side,  and  a  screen  placed  so  as  to 
let  in  light  from  over  it,  while  it  secures  to  the  scrib- 
bler that  feeling  of  snugness,  without  which  the  mind 
plays  truant  with  the  task  in  hand." 

I  recently  met  a  prominent  lawyer  of  Chicago,  who 
had  spent  ten  days  at  Gad's  Hill,  the  home  of  Dickens. 
In  his  charming  description  he  said:  "  Of  course  the  chief 
interest  to  me  of  the  place  was  his  library.  In  looking  it 
over  I  was  shown  what  Dickens  had  labeled  his  '  Mock 
Library.'  What  do  you  think  it  was?  Imitations  of  books, 
on  the  backs  of  which  he  had  their  titles.  Some  were  the 
titles  of  his  own  novels.  Some  were  named  for  some  of 
the  characters  in  his  novels.  I  thought,  as  I  looked  them 
over,  what  an  amusing  pastime  this  work  must  have 
afforded  dear  old  Dickens." 

It  will  be  creditable  to  your  intelligence  to  suggest 


130  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

as  many  for  your  library,  always  remembering  that  they 
should  be  appropriate,  as  you  can  find  places  for  them. 

Where  else  would  an  inscription  be  more  appropriate? 

There  is  no  apology  necessary  for  asking  so  much 
of  your  time  to  this  essay,  if  you  may  call  it  that,  on  the 
library.  If  you  have  one,  you  will  agree  that  the  only 
criticism  to  be  made  is  that  the  essay  is  not  longer. 

THE  DINING-ROOM. 

Where  the  Master   Meets   His  Family  and   Friends  and  Makes  the 
Welcome  Double. 

You  may  have  met  your  guest  in  the  cheery  vestibule 
hall  and  given  him  the  right  hand;  you  may  have  received 
him  in  your  salon  with  its  rococo,  renaissance,  early  En- 
glish, old  Dutch  or  colonial  furnishings;  he  may  have 
enjoyed  the  subdued  richness  of  some  Persian  design,  "  or 
the  light-loving  colors  of  Arabia,"  or  the  Louis  XVI.  sets. 
The  perfume  of  your  conservatory  may  have  intoxicated 
his  senses  until  he  dreamed  of  the  tropics,  and  he  may  have 
enjoyed  the  restfulness  of  the  guest's  chamber  until  it  car- 
ried him  homeward  in  his  sleep. 

But  you  have  not  entertained  him  until  he  has  sat  at 
your  table.  The  breaking  of  bread  was  the  first  rule  of 
hospitality.  The  history  of  nations  and  feasts  are  closely 
interwoven.  Beauty  and  wit  sit  down  together  on  state 
occasions  in  the  banquet  hall. 

Some  of  the  conventionalities  of  the  salon  may  be 
broken  over  with  propriety  in  the  dining-room.  It  is  the 
neutral  ground  of  the  house.  It  is  the  dining-room,  and 
all  which  appertains  thereto,  that  tightens  up  the  cords  of 
friendship,  and  makes  good  will  among  men  and  women. 
Here  is  the   glow  of  home.     There  is  no  mistaking  the 


THE   DINING-ROOM.  131 

good  intentions  of  this  apartment  if  they  are  in  existence. 
If  a  man  is  not  at  home  here  he  will  not  be  anywhere. 
From  this  precinct  he  goes  out  and  realizes  the  full  mean- 
ing of  the  couplet: 

Fate  cannot  harm  me, 
I  have  dined  to-day. 

You  have,  in  advance,  prepared  your  menu,  and  your 
table  is  arranged.  If  these  are  not  satisfactory,  granting 
that  your  better  nature  is  at  peace  with  all  the  world,  you 
may  be  sure  that  the  reason  may  be  found  in  the  fact  that 
your  architect  and  decorator  have  not  done  their  work. 

If  there  is  anything  in  the  construction  of  your  dining- 
room  that  smacks  of  the  dainty  or  delicate,  have  it  removed. 

You  will  never  enjoy  a  dinner  there,  and  your  epicu- 
rean friend  will  go  away  from  your  presence  with  the  feel- 
ing that  "  one  thing  thou  lackest." 

A  gentleman  who  had  seen  the  world,  returned  home 
and  built  him  a  mansion.  Its  furnishing  was  complete. 
The  architect  and  the  decorator  left  the  house  just  as  the 
owner's  heart  and  taste  had  desired  it.  Some  time  after 
its  occupancy  a  friend  from  one  of  the  European  capitals 
was  his  guest.  This  guest  was  a  man  who  knew  by  intu- 
ition, education  and  observation,  precisely  what  was 
required  to  make  a  house  complete. 

On  the  termination  of  his  visit  the  host  said:  "  I  want 
your  candid  opinion  about  my  house." 

The  guest  thus  appealed  to  replied  ,  "  You  have  no 
dining-room,  therefore  you  have  no  house." 

The  dining-room,  had  been  neglected.  There  had 
been  no  proper  arrangement  for  light.  The  wood  about 
the  walls  and  ceilings  were  delicate.  It  was  a  child's  idea 
of  a  play-house.     The  owner,  in  the   first    place,   was   a 


132  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

man  who  did  not  give  much  thought  to  that  most 
delightful  enjoyment  of  lingering  at  his  table.  He  had 
never  read  the  "  Autocrat  of  the  Breakfast  Table."  He 
became  disconsolate  over  the  mistake  and  disposed  of  his 
house  at  a  sacrifice. 

There  should  be  something  rugged  in  the  character 
of  the  dining-room.  The  wood-work  overhead  should 
have  in  it  something  suggestive  of  strength  and  durability. 
It  should  be  native  wood,  and  not  light  wood  either. 
Antique  oak,  cherry,  black  walnut  or  mahogany  are  the 
ones  most  generally  selected  by  people  who  understand 
what  is  proper.  It  is  a  matter  of  taste  about  its  arrange- 
ment; that  is  to  say,  you  may  have  it  carved  into  as 
many  fantastic  shapes  as  the  carver  may  have  ideas;  or 
it  may  be  plain,  with  a  high  polish,  of  course. 

What  need  to  say  that  the  other  wood-work  in  this 
room  should  accord  with  the  ceiling? 

The  location  of  the  house  may  be  such  as  to  preclude 
the  bay-window.  But  your  good  taste  will  receive  no 
compliments  if  you  fail  to  have  such  a  window  in  this 
room.  It  is  the  basis  of  your  decoration.  We  do  not  say 
that  it  is  an  essential,  but  if  you  are  constructing  your  own 
house  you  will  see  to  it  that  this  protruding  window  is  in 
this  room. 

It  is  the  perspective  of  this  apartment.  It  is  the  foun- 
tain where  the  birds  sing;  where  the  light  is  toned  to  any 
degree,  and  the  retreat  where  the  guest  may  rest  his  eye, 
it  it  wearies  of  your  decorations. 

In  this  room  there  is  invariably  a  hard-wood  floor,  and 
it  follows  that  you  will  invariably  use  rugs.  These  are  the 
Turkish  and  Oriental ;  also  domestic  rugs,  which,  of  course, 
come  much  cheaper  than  any  of  the  foreign  or  Oriental  rugs. 


THE   DINING-ROOM.  I  33 

The  furnishing  of  the  room  pertaining  to  the  dining- 
table,  sideboard  and  chairs,  and  other  pieces  of  furniture, 
is  all  introduced  to  match  the  doors  and  wainscoting  and 
other  interior  wood-work  of  the  room.  The  woods  mostly 
used  at  the  present  time  are  the  antique  oak,  birch,  black 
walnut,  mahogany  and  other  hard  woods. 

For  portieres  and  hangings  for  the  doors,  it  would  be 
a  nice  idea  to  introduce  rug  portieres.  The  styles  most  used 
for  portieres  are  Kiss-Kalum,  Karamanie  rugs.  Regard- 
ing other  materials,  which  are  also  appropriate,  there  are 
plain  velours  and  figured  velours;  also  tapestries  and  heavy 
damask  goods,  which  come  in  strong,  rich  colorings, 
becoming  the  dining-room. 

Regarding  the  wall  work,  there  is  a  great  variety  of 
desirable  styles  offered.  There  are  printed  tapestries 
which  come  in  dull,  rich  effects,  and  which  make  beautiful 
and  effective  side  walls.  The  chairs  are  done  in  leather, 
either  plain,  illuminated  or  embossed,  in  colorings  to  match 
the  room.  Velours  and  tapestries  are  also  used  for 
upholstering  the  chairs.  The  table-cover  for  dressing  the 
table  when  not  in  use,  is  something  that  can  be  made  very 
dressy  and  effective  by  adapting  some  sort  of  Turkish  rug 
stuff,  the  margin  to  conform  to  the  size  of  the  table;  or,  a 
regular  made  velour  or  tapestry  table-cover;  and,  further, 
an  embroidered  cover  made  from  satin  sheeting  or  plain 
velour,  or  heavy  reps  goods,  which  comes  in  solid  colors, 
and  which  can  be  bought  in  the  strong,  rich  and  effective 
designs,  and  made  to  harmonize  with  the  general  effect 
already  produced  in  the  room. 

Regarding  the  side  walls,  in  case  plain  leathers  are 
used,  panel  off  with  ornamental  French  nails  in  bronze 
or  metallic  tones  of  color.      Papier-mache,  and  other  bold 


134  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

relief  stuffs  which  come  in  this  line  of  decoration,  are  also 
used. 

The  sideboard  in  your  dining-room  is  a  matter  of 
taste,  taking  it  for  granted  that,  by  this  time,  you  have 
had  the  idea  of  harmony  permanently  anchored  in  your 
mind.  Having  conformed  this  to  the  wood-work  of  your 
room,  it  is  for  you  to  say  how  elaborate  the  sideboard 
may  be.  There  is  a  wilderness  of  sideboards,  and  the 
decoration  of  them  is  endless. 

It  is  not  the  intention  of  this  work  to  make  any  indi- 
vidual citations.  There  are  myriads  of  mansions  and 
myriads  of  dining-rooms,  and  each  differs  from  the  other 
"  as  one  star  in  glory  differeth  from  another.  "  The  follow- 
ing description,  however,  of  a  dining-room  just  furnished 
by  one  who  is  universally  credited  with  great  taste  and 
refinement,  deserves  a  permanent  niche.  The  writer  says 
of  this  dining-room  : 

"  It  is  a  place  where  the  epicure  would  feel  at  home, 
and  even  the  surfeited  would  find  an  appetite.  Its  pur- 
pose can  be  gleaned  from  the  Scotch  blessing,  carved  deep 
in.  the  black  oak  chimney-piece  : 

"  Some  hae  meat  and  canna  eat, 

And  some  wad  eat  that  want  it ; 
But  we  hae  meat,  and  we  can  eat, 

And  say,  '  The  Lord  be  thankit.' 

"  The  dining-table  is  a  pre-revolutionary  relic  from 
Maryland,  and  was  imported  from  England  long  before  the 
Stamp  Act  was  passed.  The  chairs  are  also  of  mahogany, 
and  are  exact  copies  of  a  set  that  Voltaire  once  had  in  his 
house  in  Paris.  The  sideboard  —  mahogany,  inlaid  with 
light  wood  —  is  from    England,   and   has  held   the  good 


THE   DINING-ROOM.  135 

things  of  earth  for  over  a  hundred  years.     Two  fine  deer 
heads,  mounted,  hang  upon  the  walls." 

I  had  occasion  during  investigations  to  meet  a  worthy 
gentleman  to  whom  I  propounded  this  question:  "  What 
is  the  most  approved  table  for  a  dining-room?" 

The  gentleman  smiled  and  replied,  "  I  never  knew  of 
but  one  appropriate  style  of  table  for  a  dining-room — the 
round.  Of  course,  there  used  to  be  the  extension  table, 
but  it  has  gone  out  of  date,  and  the  round  table  has  taken 
its  place." 

This  is  hardly  the  place  to  provoke  any  controversy, 
but  the  gentleman  certainly  spoke  from  the  point  where 
his  observation  last  rested. 

There  has  just  been  introduced  into  the  dining-rooms 
of  those  who  insist  upon  the  latest,  the  three-cornered 
table.  And  it  is  already  voted  to  be  the  most  sensible 
table  that  ever  contributed  to  a  "  flow  of  soul." 

The  hostess  sits  at  the  angle,  and  the  host  half-way 
between  the  two  lower  corners,  facing  her.  *By  this 
arrangement  the  guests  are  evenly  divided  between  their 
entertainers,  and  close  enough  to  either  to  include  them 
in  the  conversation.  A  low-massed  floral  decoration  is 
the  appropriate  center-piece. 

At  a  dinner  recently  served  at  such  a  table,  there  was 
a  low  bank  of  violets,  edged  with  ferns,  and  at  each  plate 
an  odd-shaped  basket  of  gilded  Japanese  bamboo,  filled 
with  the  sweet  purple  blossoms.  The  cloth  was  of  the 
finest  linen,  with  an  elaborate  pattern  in  drawn  work,  the 
undercloth  being  pink  silk.  9 

The  three-cornered  table  is  destined  for  awhile  to 
succeed  the  round  table. 

On  the  mantel  in  the  dining-room  there  is  suchan  op- 


136  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

portunity  for  the  display  of  decorated  china,  or  of  a 
bronze  figure  —  something  suggestive  of  the  chase.  If 
you  wish  to  go  further,  an  archwork  of  wood  may  curve 
its  way  to  the  ceiling,  and  in  the  center  of  this,  no  design 
is  prettier,  and  at  the  same  time  more  useful,  than  a  clock. 
If  it  be  an  old  style  make,  nothing  will  be  lost.  The 
swinging  of  a  pendulum  stroking  down  the  flight  of  time, 
with  its  "  forever-never,  never-forever  "  language,  is  a 
movement  that  will  not  in  the  least  detract  from  the  inter- 
est around  the  board. 

A  suggestion  for  the  general  furnishing  of  a  dining- 
room  —  from  a  well  known  decorator  —  makes  an  appro- 
priate closing  for  this  chapter.      He  said: 

"  Let  the  velours  and  reliefs  be  rich  and  elaborate, 
thus  giving  what  such  a  room  should  have  —  dignity  and 
repose.  The  designs  may  be  in  varying  shades  of  brown 
and  gold,  with  coppery  and  iridescent  gleams.  The  chief 
section  of  the  wall  is  a  very  broad  frieze.  The  ground, 
light,  warm  brown,  shot  with  wavering  parallel  lines -of 
coppery  gold;  over  this,  a  raised  pattern  of  circling  and 
trailing  ribbons  of  brown  and  gold  sea-weed,  coiled  in  the 
round  openings  of  a  lobster  net,  and  tangled  in  its  meshes. 
Below  this,  and  separated  from  it  by  a  band  of  embossed 
sea-shells  and  sea-weeds  on  a  dull,  gold  ground,  is  the  nar- 
row wall  space,  covered  with  the  cords  of  a  fish  net,  through 
which  may  be  seen  small  fishes  and  prawns  darting  among 
golden  sea-weed.  The  dado  is  deep  brown  and  yellow  in 
color,  heavily  embossed,  and  of  a  strong,  simple  geometric 
design.  Above  the  frieze,  a  broad  border  oflarge,  brown 
fishes,  some  with  golden  scales,  leaping  through  the  swell- 
ing lines  of  conventionalized  waves.  The  velvety  velours 
are  on  both  the  walls  and  the  ceiling.      The  latter  is  cov- 


'/  i  1  M  —  —  " " w  • 


_j 


THE    DINING-ROOM.  137 

ered  with  the  twisting,  tangled  meshes  of  a  vast  fish-net, 
creamy  white  in  color,  on  a  brown  ground;  around  its 
edges  are  strong  cords  and  floats,  and  here  and  there 
shreds  of  sea-grasses  of  metallic  luster  waving  in  slender 
curves." 

We  shall  never  tire  of  the  grate  or  the  fire-place. 
Our  grandfathers  used  the  latter  as  a  necessity.  We 
adopt  it  as  a  decoration.  You  saw  it  nestling  under  the 
mantel  as  you  came  into  the  house — in  the  reception-hall. 
Do  not  make  the  mistake,  that  having  it  there,  it  should 
not  meet  the  eye  elsewhere.  Let  your  children  have  it 
in  the  dining-room.  Let  your  guest  see  it  as  he  is  the 
recipient  of  your  hospitality.  It  will  impress  itself  upon 
him  pleasantly  as  he  goes  away.  If  it  be  winterand  your 
fancy  should  suggest  a  bit  of  warmth  in  this  grate,  so  much 
the  better.  If  it  be  summer,  you  can  make  it  the 
receptacle  for  so  many  designs.  You  can  bank  it  with 
flowers;  you  can  make  it  a  retreat  for  ferns.  It  can  be 
put  behind  a  screen  of  your  own,  or  any  make.  About 
it  you  can  gather  a  colony  of  bright  things  in  brass.  The 
fender  and  the  fire-irons  and  the  scuttle  make  a  pretty 
effect  for  the  eye.  Swing  a  tea-kettle  from  a  crane,  and 
your  immagination  will  hear  the  kettle  sing;  and  ifyou  care 
to  throw  about  the  opening  something  in  the  way  of  drap- 
ings,  and  you  are  the  least  bit  inclined  to  be  poetical,  you 
may  almost  imagine  that  the  gypsies  are  camping  about. 

The  mantel  above  the  grate  may  have  a  quotation 
inscribed  upon  it.  These  quotations,  by  the  way,  are 
quite  proper  in  any  room  in  the  house.  The  idea  suggests 
familiarity  with  authors.      And  what  a  pretty  idea  it  is! 

You  have  Dickens  speaking  in  the  dinning-room ; 
Thackeray  reminds  you,  at  the  entrance  of  the  house,  that 


I3§  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

he  is  still  living;  Holmes  is  as  talkative  as  ever  in  the 
guest  chamber;  and,  Longfellow  nestles  down  before 
you  in  the  living-room,  as  he  did  in  his  own  dear  old 
home,  when  — 

The  evening  lamps  are  lighted, 
And,  like  phantoms  grim  and  tall, 
Shadows  from  the  fitful  fire-light 
Dance  upon  the  parlor  wall. 

And  so  on,  wherever  you  may  conduct  your  guests, 
you  come  in  contact  with  song  and  sentiment  of  the 
departed. 

THE   GUEST-CHAMBER. 

Every  woman  has  somebody,  who,  living  at  a  dis- 
tance, pays  her  a  visit.  She  comes  to  stay  a  fortnight  or 
a  season.  She  is  tired  when  she  arrives.  The  welcome 
at  the  lintel  of  the  vestibule  may  have  been  of  that  cor- 
dial kind  which  warms  the  blood  about  the  cockles  of  the 
heart.  But  the  visitor  can  never  feel  completely  at  home 
under  your  roof  until  she  has  been  shown  into  "  her  " 
chamber — the  room  which  you  have  prepared  for  her. 

You  leave  her  for  a  few  moments  to  arrange  her 
luggage  and  look  after  those  little  things  which  are  exclu- 
sive to  every  woman,  no  matter  how  intimate  she  may  be 
with  her  hostess.  It  is  in  that  hour,  or  piece  of  an  hour, 
that  your  guest  decides  in  her  heart  whether  she  is  really 
welcome. 

There  is  an  easy-chair  in  the  proper  place,  into  which 
she  sinks,  and  a  momentary  oblivion  envelops  her.  Then 
she  opens  her  eyes,  and  they  fall  upon  a  narrow  paneled 
space  between  the  fireplace  and  the  mantel  of  the  room  — 


THE    GUEST-CHAMBER.  I  39 

or  in  some  other  place  —  and  upon  this  she  sees  an  inscrip- 
tion: 

"  Tunm  Est." 

As  an  American  humorist  said,  "  That's  Latin,"  and 
it  means  in  English: 

"  IT   IS   YOURS." 

If  your  guest  has  been  much  of  a  traveler,  or  if  she 
has  been  much  of  a  reader,  this  simple  inscription  will 
convey  her  back  to  Spain,  and  she  will  have  her  little 
dream  of  the  proverbial  hospitality  of  that  polite  nation, 
where  the  host  always  says  to  his  guest,  "  The  house  is 
yours,  senor. " 

It  is  such  a  simple  thing,  and  means  so  much  —  this 
genuine  hospitality. 

When  Bayard  Taylor,  the  greatest  of  American  trav- 
elers in  his  day  —  though  many  since  his  time  have  trav- 
eled further  and  seen  more — was  about  to  say  adieu  to 
Sir  Walter  Scott,  who  had  entertained  him  with  such 
simplicity  and  such  hospitality,  the  historian,  novelist  and 
poet  followed  Mr.  Taylor  to  the  gate,  and,  taking  his  hand, 
said,  "  I  will  not  say  good-bye,  for  that  is  a  word  that 
always  makes  me  sad.  But  I  will  say,  come  again  and 
enjoy  my  hospitality." 

I  have  devoted  some  extra  time  in  arriving  at  a 
design  the  most  suitable  for  this  guest-chamber.  Of 
course,  in  this,  as  in  other  apartments,  there  is  a  field 
without  limit.  There  are  ideas  and  fads  without  number. 
But  from  the  whole  I  have  selected  one  which  is  at  this 
writing  unique  and  a  bit  novel,  and  at  the  same  time  it  is 
not  expensive.      Here  it  is: 

The  woodwork  is  painted  in  a  dull  olive  green,  with 


140  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

little  lines  of  gold  around  the  panels  in  the  doors,  and 
other  lines  in  the  trim  of  the  windows  and  door  casings. 
The  bed  and  dresser  are  of  malachite  finish  ;  the  rockers, 
chairs  and  table  are  in  copper  finish.  The  floor  is  covered 
with  a  dull  olive  green  carpet,  and  the  walls  painted  an 
orange  yellow,  blending,  toward  the  center  of  the  ceiling, 
where  it  fades  out  into  a  cream.  The  windows  are  draped 
with  pink  and  green  draperies  of  thin  silk,  and  tied  back 
with  ribbons  of  pink,  soft  green  and  orange.  There  are 
several  little  bows  and  knots  of  ribbons  tied  on  the  back 
of  the  chairs  made  of  the  same  combination. 

THE   GENTLEMAN'S    DEN. 

Your  grandmother  was  to  be  pitied.  It  is  no  ungrate- 
ful thing  to  say  that,  no  matter  how  lavishly  our  husbands 
permit  us  to  furnish  the  homes  which  they  give  us,  there 
are  times  when  we  don't  want  them  about.  Perhaps  it  is 
better  to  mellow  this  sentence  with  the  admission  that 
there  are  times  when  they  want  to  crawl  into  a  nook  of 
their  own  somewhere  in  the  house,  out  of  sight  of  our 
house-worry. 

Your  grandmother  could  never  get  your  grandfather 
out  of  the  way  when  house-cleaning  day  came  round. 
And  when  one  of  his  cronies  made  a  call  with  his  wife, 
they  all  sat  in  the  same  room,  and,  if  your  grandmother 
had  a  bit  of  gossip  to  tell  her  neighbor,  or  vice  versa,  they 
had  to  take  a  walk  in  order  to  get  away  from  the  men. 

Have  we  made  any  advancement?  We  may  as  well 
be  honest  about  it.  So  far  as  the  chat  is  concerned,  we 
have  not.  We  gossip  as  glibly  as  the  good  old  dears  of 
that  remote  generation.  But  we  have  made  one  improve- 
ment.    We  have — thanks  to  our  liege  lords  —  provided 


THE    GENTLEMEN'S   DEN.  141 

them  a  place  to  which  they  can  retire,  and  still  be  at  home. 
We  call  it  the  "  Gentleman's  Den."  Our  grandmothers 
had  no  room  for  such  a  place. 

The  men  of  to-day  rather  like  the  idea.  They  like  to 
have  this  retreat  labeled  as  a  den,  for  it  smacks  of  down- 
town. It  is  the  club  at  home.  Ah,  dear  madam,  do  not 
make  any  mistake.  Do  not  let  your  home  be  too  severely 
a  home.  Give  your  husband  to  feel  that,  although  his 
home  is  the  sacredest  spot  on  this  earth,  it  still  contains  a 
hole-in-the-wall  where  he  can  go  and  read  his  papers  and 
magazine  and  smoke  a  cigar,  or  a  pipe  if  he  chooses,  when 
the  other  apartments  are  undergoing  the  cleaning  process, 
or  when  your  dear  confidante  next  door  comes  in  to 
make  yoti  a  call. 

It  is  your  mission,  madam,  to  fix  up  this  den.  It 
is  not  to  be  done  elaborately.  No  man  wants  to  lounge  in 
a  palace.  It  is  to  be  quaint  and  full  of  comedy.  Never 
mind  where  you  locate  it.  I  peeped  into  one  that  was  hid 
under  a  stairway  —  of  course  the  stairway  was  a  broad 
one.      Here  is  a  description  of  it: 

The  room  was  treated  with  India  hand-printed  cot- 
tons. The  center  of  the  "  ceiling  "  was  made  from  a  large 
curtain  pattern,  upon  which  were  many  Oriental  figures  and 
hieroglyphics.  The  margin  of  the  ceiling  was  filled  in 
with  a  plain  color.  Around  the  "  room  "  was  a  frieze 
about  eighteen  inches  wide,  made  from  this  same  printed 
India  material,  the  walls  being  filled  in  with  panels  simi- 
lar to  those  on  the  ceiling;  and  the  margin  around  them 
with  plain  color.  At  a  window  was  hung  an  India  muslin 
curtain.  The  floor  was  covered  with  rugs.  And  there 
were  an  Oriental  coffee  table   and  smoker's    articles,   and 


142  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

two  or  three  large  easy-chairs  and  a  luxurious  Turkish 
couch,  covered  with  rugs. 

The  India  cottons  have  a  bit  of  history.  In  the  far 
Eastern  country  from  whence  they  came,  they  are  worn 
by  the  women.  One  of  them,  a  dress  pattern,  costs  what 
is  equivalent  to  one  dollar  of  our  money,  and  yet  the  East 
India  woman  never  has  enough  money  at  one  time  to  make 
a  purchase. 

An  American  merchant  found  some  of  these  quaint 
cottons,  and  offered  a  dollar  each  for  a  quantity.  The 
East  India  manufacturer,  not  unlike  the  manufacturer  of 
the  West,  seeing  that  his  goods  were  in  demand,  immedi- 
ately advanced  his  price  to  ten  dollars  apiece. 

The  American  merchant  was  shrewd.  In  the  next 
market  he  bought  one  pattern  at  a  time.  These  goods 
have  found  their  way  into  our  house-furnishing  establish- 
ments, and,  while  they  are  used  for  many  purposes,  they 
are  particularly  adapted  for  that  den  to  which  your  hus- 
band retires  when  there  is  an  occasion,  and,  to  be  honest 
about  it,  you  know  that  these  occasions  arise. 

You  can  find  these  materials  anywhere,  and,  if  your 
salesman  is  the  gentleman  I  have  found  him  to  be,  he 
will  rig  up  such  a  combination  as  this  for  you  in  one 
corner  of  his  salesroom,  so  that  you  can  have  an  idea  of  its 
unique  beauty. 

THE    BED-ROOM. 

It  is  still  a  question  with  many  people  who  have  mas- 
tered the  art  of  living  well  whether  the  living-room  and  the 
bed-room  should  be  one. 

There  are  reasons  for  saying  they  should,  just  as  there 
are  reasons  for  saying  that  they  should  be  distinct. 


THE   BED-ROOM.  143 

The  bed-room  is  where  we  "  wrap  the  drapery  of" 
our  "  couch  about  us  and  lie  down  to  pleasant  dreams." 

It  is  the  resting  place  where  we  lounge  when  "  darkness 
falls  from  the  wing  of  night."  If  it  be  abed-room  simply, 
it  is  more  or  less  confined,  and,  being  so,  one  is  unable  to 
place  within  its  walls  the  mementoes  and  pretty  things 
which  become  a  bed-room  more  appropriately  than  any 
other.  It  would  seem,  from  some  considerations,  that 
"  bed-room,"  or  "  sleeping  apartment,"  is  a  misnomer.  If 
this  apartment  is  the  living-room — to  use  our  grand- 
mother's name  for  it,  the  sitting-room — then  "  bed -room" 
is  a  misnomer. 

With  the  advancement  in  everything  calculated  for 
such  an  apartment,  there  is  no  reason  why  it  should  not  be 
the  living,  as  well  as  the  bed  room.  If  it  be  used  as  a  bed- 
room solely,  it  will  never  receive  the  same  attention  it 
would  otherwise  receive  if  it  were  the  living-room.  You 
may  think  differently,  and  be  honest  in  the  thought.  But 
there  will  come  days  when  it  will  be  neglected  in  spite  of 
your  good  intentions;  these  poor  natures  of  ours  are  so  apt 
to  lag  by  the  way,  at  times,  in  spite  of  the  best  resolutions. 

There  appear  to  be  more  and  better  reasons  for  throw- 
ing the  living  and  the  bed  room  into  one  than  there  are 
reasons  against  it. 

Let  me  say,  then,  that  they  are  one.  It  follows  that 
the  room  should  be  the  perfection  of  home.  The  children 
gather  about  you  there  in  all  of  the  seasons  —  they  show 
their  faces  at  the  windows  to  watch  the  flight  of  birds,  to 
see  the  world  without,  to  follow  the  patter  of  the  rain  on 
the  glass  in  summer,  to  watch  the  snow  fall  in  winter,  and, 
in  the  evenings,  to  look  into  the  sky  with  its  "  groves  of 
stars." 


144  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

It  is  the  place  where  the  family  pictures  hang;  where 
the  husband  confides  the  cares  and  pleasures  of  his  life  to 
the  wife  of  his  heart;  where  the  wife  adjusts  the  differ- 
ences of  the  household;  where  she  arranges  her  plans  for 
to-morrow;  where  she  takes  her  confidantes;  where  she 
mends  for  baby,  for,  no  matter  what  her  resources  may 
be,  the  American  mother  loves  to  do  this,  and  will  do  it. 
It  is  the  place  where  the  children  say  good  night,  and  give 
their  kisses,  and  from  which  they  are  taken  to  their  own 
couches. 

There  must  be  times  when  one's  head  will  ache,  and 
the  limbs  grow  tired,  and  what  more  appropriate  than  to 
pillow  one's  self  in  one's  own  living-room,  from  every  nook 
of  which  some  pleasant  recollection  looks  down. 

A  kindly  disposed  man  who  knew  something  of  the 
world,  said  to  his  house  decorator,  "  Be  careful  what 
paper  you  put  on  the  walls  of  my  living-room,  where  I 
sleep.  I  am  tired  sometimes,  and  sometimes  I  am  sick. 
My  eyes  do  not  close,  and  in  such  moments,  when  I  am 
on  my  bed,  and  my  eyes  wander  about  the  room,  as  they 
will,  I  want  them  to  rest  upon  something  pleasant  on  the 
walls.  Don't  select  such  patterns  as  will  get  me  puzzled 
with  their  angles.  There  is  everything  to  a  sick  man  in 
the  right  kind  of  figures  on  the  walls." 

How  shall  this  living-room  be  furnished  ? 

Carpets  offered  for  the  entire  floor  are  in  body  Brus- 
sels, Moquettes  and  Wilton,  in  unusually  soft  tones  of 
color  and  simple  in  design  to  become  the  situation ;  and, 
if  you  will  have,  as  you  must,  other  rooms  for  sleeping, 
there  should  be  a  distinct  feeling  of  color  —  blue  to  pre- 
dominate, we  will  say,  in  one  room,  old  rose  to  predomi- 
nate  in    the   other;  or    ivory  or  gray- blue  and    red,   or 


THE   BED-ROOM.  145 

maybe  moss  green.  Here  is  a  good  field  to  introduce 
printed  stuffs,  that  come  in  soft,  delicate  tones  of  color, 
and  make  a  wholesome  and  effective  class  of  stuffs  to  use 
for  the  upholstery  of  chairs  and  couches  and  window  seats 
if  cushions  are  used ;  also  the  portieres  and  window 
hangings  of  the  room,  taking  one  material  with  which  to 
do  the  entire  room. 

Brass  bedsteads  offer  themselves  as  one  of  the  most 
desirable  styles  of  bed  to  be  used,  as  they  are  not  only 
clean  and  good  in  that  way,  but  they  are  desirable  as  a 
furnishing  effect,  coming  in  all  widths  from  three  to  five 
and  six  feet,  and  in  all  prices,  ranging  in  corresponding 
values  with  all  manner  of  wood  beds.  In  later  years  they 
have  been  introduced  and  used  more  than  any  other  style 
of  bedstead  used  at  the  present  time.  Regarding  the  bed 
and  upholstery,  the  Metropolitan  spring-bed  is  one  of  the 
most  desirable  to  offer  for  brass  bedsteads.  A  light- 
weight hair  mattress,  placed  on  top  of  the  spring,  makes 
one  of  the  best. 

Regarding  the  dressing  of  the  bed,  the  French  round 
drum  bolster  is  the  style  favored,  and  is  considered  desir- 
able. A  spread  is  used;  also  a  valence  around  the  two 
sides  and  foot  of  the  bed,  all  made  of  the  same  material. 
The  bolster,  spread  and  valence  might  be  made  from  the 
same  material  as  the  window  hangings  and  furnishings  of 
the  room.  It  might  be  the  printed  Morris  stuffs.  Out- 
side of  these,  there  are  the  French  printed  cretonnes  and 
the  Scotch  madras  and  crete  goods;  also  light-weight 
silk  goods,  such  as  India  silk  and  the  different  lines  of 
light  weight  of  silk  and  cotton  stuffs. 

The  dresser  and  chairs  and  table  can  be  in  light  woods, 
mounted  on  brass  trimmings,  to  match  the  brass  bed.     The 


146  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

woods  most  used  are  maple,  natural  cherry,  white  mahog- 
any and  white  birch.  Or,  if  the  woodwork  is  done  in 
cream  and  gold,  the  woodwork  in  the  furniture  could 
match. 

The  heart  of  every  woman  runs  to  effective  window 
dressing,  just  as  the  children  run  to  this  window  to  look 
out.  And  this  is  a  good  place  to  say  something  about 
curtains,  whether  they  are  for  the  living-room  or  other 
rooms. 

There  is  an  idea  of  purity  in  white  thread  lace;  either 
the  Saxony  thread  or  the  French  thread  are  the  hand- 
somer style  of  curtain.  Coming  in  heavier  work,  it  is  a 
richer  and  more  beautiful  curtain  in  appearance.  Of 
course,  you  will  use  a  white  curtain  for  the  parlor,  for  a 
sitting-room  or  reception  hall — what  is  called  the 
Renaissance  lace,  or  the  Arabian  laces,  that  come  with 
handsome  lace  edgings  and  lace  insertions  with  a  plain 
field  or  center  of  French  gauze  or  French  grenadine. 

For  a  library,  the  Irish  point,  or  Colbert,  laces,  in  a 
cream  tone  of  color,  prove  to  be  very  effective  and  desira- 
ble curtains. 

For  the  dining-room,  generally  an  antique  lace  cur- 
tain, or  a  deep  ecru  Egyptian  lace  ;  or,  if  you  please,  an 
Irish  point,  which  is  considered  desirable  for  that  situa- 
tion. 

If  there  is  a  separate  bed-room  which  shows  con- 
spicuously to  the  street,  immediately  over  the  parlor  or 
reception-hall  windows,  use  something  in  simple  design 
and  style  becoming  the  bed-room,  and  to  be  agreeable  in 
general  effect  with  the  curtains  immediately  below,  which, 
of  course,  are  the  parlor  or  reception-hall  windows.  A 
simple  style  in  Saxony  thread-lace   and   the  Swiss  tarn- 


THE   BED-ROOM.  147 

bour,  also  the  Swiss  embroidered  muslins,  make  very 
pretty  curtains  for  such  a  room.  Figured  muslins  in 
small  or  medium-sized  patterns,  with  a  fluted  ruffle  down 
the  face  and  bottom,  or  plain  muslin  looped  back  with  a 
simple  cord  and  tassel-loops,  make  very  pretty  curtains 
for  bed-room  windows. 

Sash  curtains  are  used  generally  to  correspond  with 
the  style  of  lace  curtains  used  in  the  window,  either  to  be 
of  the  same  style  or  to  be  agreeable  to  them  in  the  point 
of  coloring  and  in  the  style  of  complement,  so  as  to  avoid 
too  great  a  variety  in  style  of  laces. 

Not  long  since  I  saw  a  bit  of  furniture  for  the  living- 
room,  unique  and  appropriately  arranged.  It  is  the  Wind- 
sor Combination  Washstand.  It  serves  a  double  purpose, 
that  of  writing  cabinet  and  washstand.  The  wash-bowl 
is  counter-mounted  in  a  Knoxville  marble  top,  and  con- 
cealed by  the  desk  lid,  the  reservoir  by  the  cabinet  beneath 
the  glass,  and  the  waste-water  jar  by  the  door  below.  By 
a  new  and  novel  patent  device,  the  cabinet  containing  the 
reservoir  is  locked,  compelling  the  removal  of  the  waste- 
water jar  in  order  to  unlock  it,  thus  preventing  an  over- 
flow of  waste  water  so  objectionable  in  similar  wash- 
stands. 

The  reservoir  contains  sufficient  water  for  ten  ordi- 
nary ablutions.  It  is  made  in  antique  oak,  imitation  of 
mahogany  and  walnut.  The  dimensions  are  5  ft.  9  in.  high, 
2  ft.  6  in.  wide,  2  ft.  2  in.  deep,  surmounted  by  a  German 
beveled  mirror  13  by  22  inches  and  40  by  45  inches. 

I  saw  a  room  where  the  woodwork  was  delicate 
in  its  carving  and  painted  an  ivory  white.  In  sum- 
mer the  floor  was  covered  with  yellow  matting,  and  in 
winter  with  wool.     The  rugs  were  numerous.     The  furni- 


148  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

ture  was  in  ivory  and  gold,  in  designs  of  the  time  of  Marie 
Antoinette.      It  was  a  dream  in  decoration. 

The  following  description  of  a  dainty  bed-room  in 
New  York  is  appropriate  in  this  connection.  The  lady 
who  gives  me  the  description,  says:  "  Economy  was 
necessary.  The  walls  are  covered  with  a  cheap  chintz, 
showing  a  graceful  flower  pattern  of  small  pink  roses  on  a 
pale  gray  ground.  This  chintz  is  tacked  on  the  walls,  and 
finished  by  a  narrow  frieze  border  of  the  chintz.  The 
floor,  of  ordinary  pine  wood,  painted  in  a  dark  maroon 
and  varnished,  is  nearly  covered  by  a  rug  of  pale  gray 
Brussels  '  filling,'  which  is  edged  all  around  with  a  worsted 
fringe  of  pink  and  gray.  The  mantel  and  hearth,  which 
were  of.black  marble,  have  been  painted  dark  maroon, 
and  there  is  a  '  manteau  de  cheminee,''  or  mantel  drapery 
of  the  chintz,  which  has  been  caught  up  gracefully  by  pink 
ribbons,  so  as  to  form  three  festoons.  The  pine  wood 
furniture  is  good  in  shape  and  design,  and  is  painted  pink 
and  varnished,  so  as  to  resemble  the  more  expensive  en- 
ameled furniture. 

"  The  dressing  table  has  hanging  brass  handles,  and  a 
wide  swinging  glass,  and  has  a  dainty  scarf  of  full  gray 
Momie  cloth,  with  fringed  ends,  and  little  pink  roses 
powdered  over  its  surfaces,  which  are  embroidered  in 
crewels. 

"  The  chairs  are  painted  gray,  and  have  rush-bottomed 
seats,  and  two  bamboo  chairs  are  painted  gray,  with  back 
and  seat  cushions  of  the  chintz,  tied  to  the  chair  with 
bows  of  pink  ribbon. 

"  The  bedspread  is  of  white  bolting  cloth,  lined  with 
pink  silesia,  and,  like  the  dressing-table  scarf,  embroidered 
with  pink  roses.      The   spread   is  large,  and   covers  the 


fin  Do^.       C 
,nj 


THE    BED-ROOM.  149 

pillows,  and  has  an  edging  of  Torchon  lace  two  inches 
wide.  A  pretty  little  cherrywood  cabinet  hangs  over  the 
mantel. 

"  The  window  curtains  are  of  bolting  cloth  —  a  cheap, 
transparent  material  —  lined  with  pink  silesia,  and  tied 
back  with  pink  ribbons. 

"  The  fireplace  is  bordered  with  gray,  glazed  ties,  and 
there  are  brass  fire-dogs  and  fender. 

"  The  doors  and  woodwork  of  this  pretty  room  are 
painted  mahogany  color,  contrasting  pleasantly  with  the 
prevailing  pink  and  gray  decorations.  The  ceiling  is 
tinted  a  pale  pink.  A  square  table  of  cherry  stands  in 
the  center  of  the  room,  and  on  this  is  a  brass  lamp,  with 
dome  shade  of  pink  porcelain. 

"  The  bedstead  is  of  iron,  painted  pink,  and  finished  at 
the  head  and  foot  with  a  brass  rail,  and  balls  at  each 
corner." 

An  authority  on  these  iron  bedsteads  submits  the 
following  :  "  They  are  now  made  on  the  lines  of  ex- 
pensive brass  bedsteads,  and  are  painted — enameled,  it  is 
called  —  in  any  color  to  match  the  room,  and  in  many 
instances  they  are  decorated  with  brass  balls  and  rods. 
The  spread  is  so  made  as  to  reach  the  floor  at  the  foot  as 
well  as  at  the  sides,  and  the  effect  is  beautiful.  They  cost 
from  twelve  to  eighteen  dollars.  " 

Some  one  has  adopted  the  idea  of  placing  an  up- 
holstered chest  at  the  foot  of  the  bed.  By  lifting  the 
top  of  the  chest,  you  have  a  receptacle  for  your  boots, 
slippers,  leggings  and  overshoes.  When  the  lid  is  shut, 
you  have  a  place  to  lounge.  These  chests  are  having  a 
run  at  the  furniture  houses.  They  are  made  in  various 
woods,  and  are  not  only  useful,    but  really  ornamental. 


150  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

We  have  seen  these  chests  in  bog  oak,  Flemish,  sixteenth 
century  oak  finish,  malachite,  Cremona  and  in  copper 
finish. 

A  young  lady  of  Chicago,  who  is  always  on  the 
alert  for  something  novel,  has  a  hammock  in  her  bed- 
room for  winter.  It  is  swung  diagonally  in  one  corner. 
A  long,  narrow  red  cushion  is  tied  to  the  meshes,  and  a 
round  pillow  for  a  head-rest  is  secured  in  place  by  long 
loops  and  ends  of  gendarme  ribbons.  There  are  also 
streamers  of  red  and  peacock  blue  ribbons  tied  to  the 
upper  ends,  falling  nearly  to  the  floor,  and  in  this  daintily 
luxurious  cradle  she  swings  herself  into  the  land  of 
dreams  and  reveries. 

Let  me  suggest  the  idea  as  worth  adopting  in  the 
living  room,  and  thus  you  have  something  tropical  to  the 
eye,,  even  though  your  latitude  is  snowbound. 

The  fact  that  you  have  decided  to  live  in  the  room 
where  you  close  your  eyelids  for  slumber,  will  not  in  the 
least  deter  you  from  making  that  apartment  what  it  would 
be  if  you  intended  it  for  sleeping  purposes  only.  A 
woman  naturally  recurs  to  her  younger  days  —  when  she 
had  her  own  sleeping  apartment  beneath  the  roof  of  the 
old  home.  She  likes  to  "  fix  things  "  as  she  used  to  have 
them  when  she  was  a  girl,  and  it  is  a  pretty  fancy. 
Indulge  yourself  in  this  to  your  heart's  content.  You 
will  find  it  better  for  wrinkles  than  cosmetics,  and  more 
inspiring  for  ennui  than  any  elixir  of  life. 

Let  this  room  have  delicacy  and  softness  of  color,  and 
tone.  Do  not  have  anything  in  it  or  about  it  that  is  rigid, 
stiff  or  suggestive  of  conventionality.  Beware  of  brilliant 
colors  and  pronounced  designs.  Let  it  make  the  impres- 
sion that  it  is  the  informal  apartment  of  your  house,  and 


SHADES   FOR   THE   WINDOWS.  I  5  I 

you  can  do  this,  albeit  you  may  furnish  it  with  a  luxurious- 
ness  that  is  Oriental.  There  should  be  light,  soft  colors, 
in  quiet  combinations;  hangings  with  large,  loose,  indis- 
tinct figures;  furniture  with  delicate  curves;  soft  fur  rugs 
and  a  plenty  of  cushions  —  nothing  to  irritate  or  excite 
the  eye. 

SHADES    FOR   THE   WINDOWS. 

It  will  not  be  information  to  those  who  are  engaged 
in  the  elevating  work  of  furnishing  and  decorating  to  know 
that  no  architect  of  to-day — we  are  living  in  1890  —  will 
ever  permit  an  inside  blind  to  a  window. 

There  is  more  than  one  reason  for  this  —  and  one  of 
them  is  a  pretty  idea.  You  are  out  for  a  drive;  your 
attention  is  directed  to  a  residence.  The  windows  —  all 
of  them  —  have  shades.  There  comes  to  you  the  thought 
—  always  restful  to  the  mind  —  "  There's  a  home.  Some- 
body lives  there." 

If  the  windows  are  blinded,  and  they  should  be 
closed,  as  they  would  be  at  a  certain  season  when  the 
occupants  of  the  house  are  on  vacation,  the  thought  pre- 
sents itself,  with  the  same  rapidity  as  the  other,  "  Unoccu- 
pied."     That  is  akin  to  desolation. 

Aside  from  these  reasons  for  shades,  there  is  another, 
and  a  more  practical  one.  The  shade  mellows  the  light  in 
the  home.  It  harmonizes.  With  shades  of  any  given 
color,  the  decorator  builds,  for  the  shade  is  susceptible  of 
being  toned.  If  this  shade  is  buff,  for  example,  and  that 
is  objectionable  because  it  admits  the  light  with  too  much 
force,  thereby  causing  the  eye  pain,  to  say  nothing  about 
injury  to  drapery,  hangings  and  carpets,  an  inner  shade, 
more  opaque,  is  added,  and  there  is  created  that  subdued 


152  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

light  which  is  so  essential  in  a  home,  and  which,  tempered 
with  that  hospitality  that  is  one  of  the  essentials  of  a  per- 
fect home,  proclaims  a  welcome  as  we  draw  near  the 
threshold. 

And  about  these  double  shades,  how  artistically  and 
fantastically  are  thrown  the  sash  curtains  —  so  pretty  in 
effect,  so  dear  to  the  heart  of  every  woman,  so  unmis- 
takably an  index  to  refinement  and  taste,  so  full  of  rest  to 
the  master  of  the  home  and  his  guests. 

Of  course  you  have  understood  in  all  this  that  the 
proper  thing  for  the  outside  shade  is  a  plain  opaque,  and 
each  window  must  be  shaded  alike.  For  the  inside  shade, 
Holland  and  plain  brown  linen,  the  latter  the  more  expen- 
sive, are  most  in  vogue. 

The  sash  curtains  are  of  Irish  point  lace,  which  may 
be  purchased  by  the  yard,  although  there  are  many  effect- 
ive patterns.  There  are  also  the  Arabian  laces,  which 
give  to  the  room  that  touch  of  the  Oriental  which  is  so 
delightful  to  a  refined  taste.  There  are  the  renaissance 
patterns,  Saxony  threads,  and  French  point  laces  in 
patterns.  It  is  impossible  to  exhaust  the  field.  Herein 
again  appears  that  individuality  of  decoration  of  which  we 
have  written. 

Wherever  there  is  a  necessity,  there  is  no  trouble  in 
arriving  at  a  solution.  Shades  are  a  necessity.  Hangings 
are  a  necessity.  Sash  curtains  are  a  luxury.  And,  when 
one  enters  the  labyrinths  of  luxury,  one  enters  into  a 
kingdom  as  vast  as  the  sea. 

Before  leaving  the  subject  of  shades,  it  may  not  be 
amiss  to  state  that  in  your  sleeping  apartment  there 
should  always  be  double  shades,  even  if  you  omit  them  in 
other  apartments.      There   is   nothing  so   beautiful  to  the 


ELEGANCE    FOR   LITTLE    MONEY.  I  53 

eye  as  sleeping  in  a  room,  through  the  windows  of  which 
the  morning  light  breaks.  For  health — and  with  health 
there  follows  always  a  brood  of  blessings  —  double  shades 
are  a  necessity  in  a  sleeping  apartment. 

One  additional  idea  on  shades  before  we  enter  that 
inimitable  domain  so  dear  to  woman's  heart  — "  the  house 
beautiful. "  If  your  house  is  of  a  somber  material,  good 
taste  will  warrant  your  return  to  the  school  of  decoration 
in  vogue  when  — 

"Venice  sate  in  state,  throned  on  her  hundred  isles," 

the  old-fashioned  Venetian  blind.  Your  grandmother 
followed  that  school,  and  you  may  be  sure,  that,  in  adopt- 
ing it  in  this  age  of  beauty,  you  will  violate  no  rule. 
Especially  true  is  this  in  any  house  which  has  on  it  the 
impress  of  stateliness. 

Need  it  be  said,  that,  if  you  are  following  out  the 
Chippendale  school  of  decoration,  you  will  not  want  the 
Venetian  blind?  About  the  Chippendale  there  was  "  a 
light,  airy  nothingness,"  in  keeping  with  many  of  the 
French  ideas  so  characteristic  of  the  year  1700. 

ELEGANCE   FOR   LITTLE    MONEY. 

How  often  in  my  rounds  have  I  been  met  with  the 
inquiry:  "  How  can  we  who  are  not  the  salt  of  the  earth, 
financially  speaking,  adorn  our  homes.  Everything  neces- 
sary for  house  decoration  is  so  expensive  that  our  tastes 
fail  to  reach  them." 

There  are  some  homely  sayings  which  come  up  now 
and  then  to  answer  what  seem  to  be  abstruse  problems. 
One  of  these  sayings  is:  "Where  there's  a  will  there's  a 
way."     A  woman  who  has  the  innate  love  of  decoration 


154  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

will  beautify  an  alcove  and  trim  an  attic  in  a  way  that 
would  make  any  mortal  content. 

Now,  here  is  a  pretty  room,  and  it  is  within  the  reach 
of  that  woman  who  has  the  love  of  home  at  heart,  and  who 
has  a  husband  who  is  just  half-way  inclined  to  humor  her 
whims.  The  decorator  who  gives  it  calls  it  "  the  pink 
room. " 

Very  appropriate,  for  the  woodwork  is  painted  a 
pale  pink  color,  the  ceiling  being  tinted  in  light  shade. 
The  walls  are  covered  with  cheese  cloth,  cream  white  in 
color,  plated  in  wide  box  pleats.  A  frieze  of  cretonne, 
eighteen  inches  deep,  with  cream  ground  nearly  covered 
with  pink  roses  and  pale  olive-green  leaves,  meets  the 
cheese  cloth,  and  is  divided  from  it  by  a  narrow  picture 
rail  in  dead  gold. 

The  floor  is  stained  a  dark  color,  and  covered  by  a 
large  Chinese  cotton  rug  of  white  ground,  with  ara- 
besque border  and  medallion  of  shaded  pinks.  These 
rugs  are  particularly  adapted  for  summer. 

The  sofas  and  chairs  show  no  woodwork  ;  they  are 
covered  with  the  same  cretonne  as  frieze,  upholstered  in, 
with  back  and  seats  tufted.  The  portieres  are  of  cream 
white  momie  cloth,  with  wide  band  of  same,  embroicfered 
in  crewels,  with  a  design  of  pink  dog-roses. 

The  window  curtains  are  of  cream  white  scrym,  with 
pink  stripes,  and  are  tied  back  by  wide  pink  satin  ribbons. 

Little  sash  curtains  of  pink  Chinese  silk  hang 
charmingly  on  rods,  with  only  a  narrow  hem  for  trim- 
mings. 

The  mantel-cover  is  a  wide  piece  of  pink  Chinese 
silk,  laid  like  a  scarf  over  the  shelf,  the  piece  hanging  over 
being  looped  up  in  the  middle  and  toward  each  end,  thus 


/r& 


ELEGANCE   FOR   LITTLE    MONEY.  I  55 

forming  two  festoons,  which  are  fastened  by  bows  of  pink 
satin  ribbon. 

Over  the  mantel,  an  oblong  mirror  framed  in  white- 
painted  wood. 

The  toilet  table,  a  simple  square  one,  with  a  glass 
hung  above  it,  is  entirely  covered  with  box-pleats  of 
cream  white  cheese-cloth,  with  a  ruffle  of  lace  at  the  top. 
The  glass  is  draped  with  cheese-cloth  curtains,  fastened 
back  with  broad  pink  satin  ribbons  tied  in  large  bows. 

In  this  pink  room  you  place  a  brass  or  iron  bedstead. 
If  iron,  it  should  be  painted  white,  with  a  brass  rail  at  the 
head  and  foot,  finished  with  a  brass  ball. 

Let  the  dressing  of  this  bedstead  be  in  harmony  with 
your  room.  The  spread  should  be  of  cretonne,  likefriezj 
and  furniture  covering,  reaching  quite  to  the  floor,  and 
finished  with  fluted  ruffle. 

There  are  bed  drapings,  hung  to  a  small  ring  in  the 
ceiling,  of  scrym,  similar  to  window  curtains.  These  are 
looped  back  by  pink  ribbons. 

A  square  table  of  pine  wood,  painted  white  and  var- 
nished, has  a  white  linen  cover,  fringed  out,  with  drawn- 
work  border,  through  which  are  run  narrow  pink  ribbons 
tied  in  a  bow  at  each  corner. 

A  pretty  white  porcelain  lamp  with  pink  globe  is  upon 
the  table,  and  one  or  two  small  rush-bottomed  chairs, 
with  frame  and  seat  painted  white,  complete  the  furni- 
ture of  this  room  —  and  where  is  the  woman  who  cannot 
duplicate  it? 


156  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 


PRETTY  DEVICES  FOR  THE  HOME. 

Put  a  night-lamp  in  your  guest's  chamber.  The  idea 
is  pretty  and  inexpensive,  and  is  one  of  the  latest.  The 
metal  lamp,  better  known  as  the  nursery  lantern,  is  tri- 
faced  and  shows  an  owl,  a  cat's  face  and  the  head  of  a 
water  spaniel,  with  mock  jewels  in  the  eyes,  through  which 
the  light  streams.  There  are  also  classic  shapes  with 
dragon  faces,  griffin  handles  and  high  chimneys  of  colored 
glass,  illustrative  of  the  German  renaissance,  while  the 
lanterns  of  blackened  iron,  with  prism  crystals,  that  swing 
from  slender  rods,  are  copied  after  the  sixteenth-century 
lamps  that  burnt  in  the  lofty  cathedrals  before  the  en- 
trance of  some  sacred  tabernacle. 

The  old-fashioned  pillow  is  not  so  much  used  as  for- 
merly. Instead,  the  French  bolster,  made  of  down.  They 
come  in  a  bunch  of  three,  and  can  be  adjusted  to  suit. 
They  are  inexpensive  and  a  luxury. 

There  are  houses  which  have  windows  long  enough 
for  a  cathedral.  A  clever  idea  for  curtaining  these,  is 
to  place  a  grill  half  way  the  length  of  the  window,  and 
from  this  hang  the  curtain.  The  upper  portion  can  be 
shaded  with  any  material  in  harmony  with  the  general 
furnishing  of  the  room. 

While  the  iron  and  brass  bedsteads  are  having  pre- 
cedence, there  comes  an  occasional  hint,  that,  when  their 
day  is  over,  we  shall  return  to  the  old  mahogany 
tester.  Do  not  permit  yourself  to  be  persuaded  into  dis- 
posing of  your  old  heavy  furniture.  It  may  be  money  in 
your  pocket  to  pay  storage  on  it. 


PRETTY   DEVICES   FOR   THE   HOME.  157 

A  young  lady  of  Chicago  has  an  iron  bedstead  in  her 
room  painted  pale  pink,  over  which  is  a  coat  of  varnish, 
giving  it  an  enamel  appearance.  A  plain  Swiss-muslin 
coverlid  and  pillow-sham  are  edged  with  narrow  lace,  and 
lined  with  pale  cambric.  The  corners  of  the  pillow-sham 
are  finished  with  a  flat  bow  of  pink  ribbon. 

In  response  to  an  oft-presented  inquiry,  we  answer 
that  the  best  authority  on  such  matters  suggests,  in  the 
construction  of  houses,  that  the  library  and  dining-room 
should  be  contiguous. 

Says  a  well-known  writer,  and  truthfully  :  "  A  house 
may  be  really  lovely,  and  yet  not  have  a  single  costly  article 
within  its  walls.  It  is  only  necessary  for  each  article  to 
harmonize  with  each  other  article,  and  to  show  thought 
and  culture." 

This  also  is  true  :  "  A  thing  is  beautiful  when  it  is  fit 
for  its  use  and  position,  and  when  it  is  true — without 
sham." 

Books  can  be  used  as  furnishings  for  all  rooms. 
They  give  your  house  an  air  of  intelligence.  Cicero  said 
of  books  :  "  They  give  strength  in  youth,  and  joy  in  old 
age  ;  adorn  prosperity,  and  are  the  support  and  consola- 
tion of  adversity  ;  at  home  they  are  delightful,  and  abroad 
they  are  easy;  at  night  they  are  company  to  us  ;  when  we 
travel  they  attend  us  ;  and  in  our  rural  retirements  they 
do  not  forsake  us." 

If  your  circumstances  do  not.  permit  you  to  make 
your  house  extensive,  and  you  are  still  a  lover  of  books, 
put  your  library  in  your  living-room,  and  have  some  of 
your  books  on  brackets  in  the  dining-room. 


158  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Copies  of  old  Florentine  silk  tapestries  with  quaint 
designs  outlined  in  gold  and  silver  thread,  or  gray,  blue, 
faded  pink  and  dull  red,  are  beautiful. 

The  rope  portiere  is  a  new  and  pretty  idea.  The 
rope  is  covered  with  any  material  which  good  taste  may 
suggest,  and  the  lower  ends  of  the  ropes  are  tied  in  knots 
which  serve  for  tassels. 

Lamps  and  rare  pieces  of  pottery  ornament  a  book- 
case; and  a  wide  sofa  of  bamboo,  stained  red,  placed 
across  the  corner  and  made  easy  by  cushions  for  back  and 
seat  of  red  plush,  makes  a  library  comfortable. 

An  idea  for  a  summer  bed-room:  Cover  the  floor  with 
cream  white  and  green  matting,  with  a  pattern  of  large- 
white  and  green  blocks  alternating.  It  can  be  bought  for 
sixty  cents  a  yard.  A  dado  of  the  same  matting,  put  on 
with  small  brass  nails,  can  be  put  on  the  walls,  which 
should  be  tinted  a  pale  green.  The  bedspread  is  of 
scrym  muslin,  lined  with  pale  green  cambric.  The  pil- 
low-shams are  the  same.  Put  scrym  curtains  at  the  win- 
dows, and  loop  them  back  with  green  satin  ribbons.  The 
window  shades  should  be  cream  white  linen,  fringed. 

One  or  two  cream-white  Japanese  goat  rugs  should 
be  spread  upon  the  matted  floor.  The  furniture,  to  har- 
monize, should  be  of  pine,  painted  a  light  green.  On 
the  tables,  scarf-like  covers  of  scrym,  lined  with  pale 
green.  A  pretty  cane  sofa,  with  a  cushion  covered  with 
green  flowered  chintz,  and  a  rocking-chair  with  similar 
cushions,  tied  by  green  satin  ribbons,,  completes  the 
picture. 


PRETTY   DEVICES   FOR   THE   HOME.  1  59 

Do  not  be  afraid  of  the  effect  of  screens.  They  are 
multitudinous  in  variety:  stormy  petrels  embroidered  in 
gold,  silver  and  copper;  storks  done  in  heavy  white  silk; 
tall  waving  grasses  in  natural  colors;  the  conventionalized 
chrysanthemum,  in  brilliant  colors;  the  peony  blossoms  in. 
all  are  exquisitely  wrought.  The  size  of  panels  varies, 
from  three  to  five  feet  in  length.  The  long  ones  are  gen- 
erally made  into  three-panel  screens,  mounted  in  bamboo 
and  brass  frames.  The  shorter  ones  are  made  into  single- 
standing  screens. 

A  pretty  ornamental  pedestal  for  a  lamp  is  a  column 
of  Mexican  onyx  in  white  and  clouded  amber,  with 
golden  ropes  twisted  about  it,  and  standing  upon  a  gilt 
pedestal.  The  lamp  upon  it  is  Worcester  royal,  with 
cream  white  ivory  finish,  and  scroll  pattern  of  raised  gold. 
The  parasol  shade  is  of  cream  white  silk,  brocaded  with 
yellow  roses,  and  bordered  by  a  face  of  rich  yellowish 
white  lace. 

The  photograph  album  is  no  longer  given  a  place  in 
a  fashionable  parlor,  if  anywhere.  There  has  been  a  good 
deal  of  romance  in  these  old  albums,  and  some  of  us, 
whose  years  run  back  further  than  we  are  willing  to  admit, 
may  lay  aside  the  old  album  with  a  sigh  of  regret.  An 
authority  on  this  subject  gives  us  the  following,  which  is 
the  correct  thing: 

"  The  most  popular  thing  for  holding  photographs  is 
a  hand-painted  or  embroidered  box.  Have  either  a 
wooden  or  tin  box  a  little  larger  each  way  than  your 
largest  pictures,  and  decorate  in  sprays  with  oils,  or  else 
cover  with  canvas,  and,  after  drawing  careless,  graceful 
clusters  of  wild  flowers,  paint  them  with  luster  paints.     If 


l60  -    FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

a  wooden  box  is  used,  it  must  be  lined  with  the  prettily- 
quilted  silk  or  satin  that  comes  by  the  yard,  and  the  out- 
side covered  to  match  or  daintily  contrasting.  The  lid 
may  be  fastened  on  with  small  brass  hinges,  or  made  to 
lift  off  by  means  of  a  ring  in  the  top. 

"  Photo-holders  also  come  in  bamboo,  little  stands  on 
feet  with  several  compartments,  and  these  are  very  gen- 
erally used  to  hold  collections  of  foreign  views,  compris- 
ing statuary,  cathedrals,  castles,  etc." 

Bamboo  racks  to  hold  books  and  newspapers  come  in 
various  sizes,  and  are  stained  in  various  colorings,  all  in 
the  natural  ecru  tint.  They  are  more  particularly  designed 
for  piazzas  in  country  houses  and  the  cottage  by  the  sea. 

White  embroidery  on  linen  is  pretty,  and  is  much 
used  for  the  small  center  cloths  which  are  placed  over  the 
damask  table-cloth,  serving  as  a  central  piece  on  which  to 
place  the  jardiniere,  basket  of  flowers,  or  lamp. 

There  is  at  present  a  fashion  for  wrought  iron,  applied 
to  objects  made  of  bronze  or  brass.  Of  all  objects  in  use 
none  rivals  in  utility  the  iron  grill,  whether  used  for  pro- 
tection or  ornament.  The  changes  of  fashion  are  not 
likely  to  affect  this.  Properly  fixed  window  guards  give 
more  security  than  shutters.  Elegant  forms  can  be  pro- 
duced, within  reach  of  every  one,  and  thus  can  there  be 
interposed  between  the  window  and  the  street,  beautiful 
objects,  that  serve  to  screen  the  interior  from  observation 
and  protect  them  by  night. 

I  recently  saw  at  Newport,  a  pretty  house,  which 
had  a  "sky  parlor."  An  awning  was  put  up  solidly, 
and  made  to  "  reef"  in  stormy  weather.     Screens  divided 


PRETTY   DEVICES    FOR   THE    HOME.  l6l 

into  spaces,  and  rugs,  arm-chairs,  work  tables  and  books 
made  up  the  furnishings.  One  part  near  a  high  chimney 
was  inclosed  in  glass,  and  in  this  cozy  nook,  a  piano,  a 
lounge  and  a  tea  table  had  been  placed.  The  usual  five 
o'clock  tea  was  served  there,  and  visitors  were  invited 
there.  It  was  a  retreat,  and  seemed  removed  from  the 
"  madding  crowd,"  and  remote  from  "  rumors  of  oppres- 
sion and  deceit." 

The  apis  deer  from  the  West  Indies  yields  a  skin  of 
rich  brown  flecked  all  over  with  white  spots,  which  may 
be  used  for  furniture  of  the  floor.  A  novelty  in  the  way 
of  decoration  is  the  half  of  a  leopard  skin,  divided  along 
the  line  of  the  spinal  column,  mounted  on  plush  or  colored 
goat  ;  this  is  hung  on  the  chimney-piece  over  the  mantel. 

Among  the  cheaper  white  rugs  is  the  skin  of  the 
Iceland  sheep  ;  this  has  no  odor,  as  most  of  the  cheap  rugs 
have,  and,  it  is  said,  will  not  shed  hairs  for  many  years  ; 
the  black  and  the  colored  ones  of  the  same  kind  are  very 
serviceable  and  remarkably  cheap. 

The  fancy  for  oxidized  and  unburnished  silver  is 
beginning  to  wane;  the  majority  of  the  new  goods  show- 
ing a  bright,  highly  polished  surface;  this  is  a  change 
which  some  housekeepers  will  decry,  as  it  necessitates  far 
more  work  in  the  care  of  silverware. 

We  have  had  Russian  teas,  Russian  pictures,  ghastly 
and  gloomy,  Russian  literature,  Russian  fancies  of  every 
kind,  but  none  has  seemed  so  eminently  appropriate  and 
altogether  delightful  as  the  Russian  fashion  of  covering 
our  divans  and  floors  with  fur  rugs.  The  woman  who  is 
the  possessor  of  half  a  dozen  fine  fur  rugs  is  the  envied  of 


1 62  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

all  her  acquaintances.  These  she  may  use  to  adorn  her 
rooms  in  a  variety  of  ways.  Some  she  will  use  for  a  divan, 
which  is  a  popular  piece  of  furniture  nowadays;  others, 
the  foxes  and  small  wolf  skins,  she  will  throw  over  the 
back  of  her  easy-chairs. 

Tiny  bronze  gongs,  hung  in  a  rustic  arbor,  are  among 
the  newest  table  bells.  Chimes  of  gongs,  from  three  to 
eight  in  number,  are  dinner-bell  novelties. 

A  good  story  is  told  of  a  bright  woman,  who,  when 
asked  by  her  husband  how  she  would  like  her  house  to 
be  built,  replied,  laconically  and  pointedly,  "  all  closets." 
"  More  closets"  is  the  daily  cry  of  all  womankind.  Occa- 
sionally, however,  there  is  a  woman  who  gets  more  than 
she  wishes,  or  gets  one  in  the  wrong  place,  and  then  she 
is  more  troubled  to  know  what  to  do  with  it  than  she 
would  have  been  to  know  how  to  do  without  it.  A 
designer  has  contrived  an  arrangement  for  one  of  these 
out-of-place  closets,  which  is  admirable.  It  opened  out 
of  a  sitting  room,  where  it  was  neither  useful  nor  orna- 
mental. The  door  was  taken  off;  the  wall  finished  with 
rough  mortar;  a  handsome  frieze  of  silver  paper  embossed 
and  perforated  —  anew  invention  which  comes  in  metallic 
colors  —  applied  onto  flock  paper.  There  was  no  dado  in 
this  room,  but  one  might  be  used  if  desired.  There  were 
three  Moorish  arches  built  out  a  foot  and  a  half  into  the 
room;  this  woodwork  was  painted  in  pale  shades  of  pink, 
blue  and  sea  green.  A  long,  wide,  old-fashioned  sofa 
was  set  back  against  the  wall;  about  eight  feet  from  the 
floor,  directly  over  the  sofa,  was  an  ornamental  shelf  with 
Moorish  designs  reaching  two-thirds  of  the  length  of  the 
closet.      Large    pieces  of  pottery  and  bric-a-brac,  which 


PRETTY   DEVICES    FOR   THE    HOME.  1 63 

could  stand  the  height,  were  ranged  along  the  shelf.  Two 
good-sized  wrought  iron  heads,  with  hooks  projecting, 
were  secured  to  the  wall  about  three  feet  above  the  sofa; 
from  these  was  suspended  a  long  Daghestan  rug,  which 
covered  the  back  and  seat  of  the  sofa,  and  stretched  out 
two  or  three  feet  on  the  floor  in  front  of  it;  luxurious 
cushions,  which  irresistibly  invited  to  repose,  were  piled 
on  either  end;  a  "  dim  religious  light"  came  from  the 
Moorish  lamp,  which  hung  within,  and  completed  one  of 
the  most  delightful  nooks. 

Mr.  Andrew  Carnegie  has  a  bed  adapted  from  a  first- 
empire  model,  in  which  the  motive  is  taken  from  cornu- 
copias. Four  of  them  meet  in  the  middle  of  the  bed,  and 
curve  upward  into  low  posts  holding  bunches  of  Easter 
lilies.      It  has  no  canopy. 

"  What,"  a  lady  asked  of  a  house  decorator,  "  is  the 
prevailing  style  of  furniture?  " 

He  replied:  "  Principally  renaissance.  But  in  enam- 
eled furniture  and  white  and  gold  there  are  the  Louis 
XIV.  and  Louis  XV.  styles,  and  Louis  XVI.,  with  its 
many  modifications,  of  which  the  Adams  is  the  favorite." 

"  Colonial  furniture  is  not  a  development;  it  is  rather 
the  result  of  the  architect's  limited  resources,  frankly 
accepted.  Therein  greatly  lies  its  charm,  perhaps.  It 
answered  the  needs  of  the  time —  nothing  more.  A  cen- 
tury ago  we  had  neither  the  workmen  nor  the  wealth  for 
anything  better.  We  could  not  have  carvings,  but  we 
could  have  fan-shaped  groovings  and  spindles.  The  ap- 
preciation of  the  fitness  of  the  furniture  of  that  epoch, 
showing  traces  of  its  mingled  English  and  Dutch  influ- 
ences, gives  it  its  creditable  place  to-day." 


1 64  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

"  What  is  the  distinction  between  the  Louis  XVI.  and 
Adams  styles?  " 

"  This  is  a  question  often  asked.  The  lines  of  the 
Adams  are  straighter  and  more  severe  than  those  in  Louis 
XVI.  furniture.  There  is  much  the  same  delicacy  and 
grace  of  form  in  the  Adams  that  we  find  in  the  latter; 
but  in  the  English  adaptation,  gilding  and  rich  brocades 
gave  place  to  simple  inlays  of  rare  woods  for  ornamenta- 
tion and  more  quiet  upholstering.  Festoons  of  flowers, 
connected  by  small  medallions,  are  a  feature  usually  intro- 
duced into  the  frieze  and  fire-place,  and  the  woodwork  is 
white  or  cream-colored,  without  gilding  or  other  decora- 
tion." 

There  are  two  pieces  of  furniture  which  are  particu- 
larly valuable  in  contributing  to  the  architectural  effect  of 
a  room,  the  sideboard,  and  the  bed.  The  sideboard 
may  fitly  be  the  efflorescence,  as  it  were,  of  the  wainscot- 
ing, carrying  the  lines  to  the  ceiling,  where  it  unites  and 
becomes  a  part  of  the  frieze  and  cove. 

Bed-rooms  have  also  become  show-rooms,  and  chiefly 
owing  to  the  architectural  importance  they  receive  by 
means  of  the  bed,  which,  in  many  houses,  is  built  in  with 
the  woodwork.  The  headposts  are  mortised  to  the  wain- 
scoting, and  afford  the  most  desirable  opportunity  for 
accenting  the  style  of  the  room  in  form,  ornament  and 
draping.  In  some  instances  the  bed  is  placed  on  a  dais, 
and  is  approached  by  a  step,  and  sometimes  two.  One 
can  easily  see  what  importance  such  an  imposing  piece  of 
furniture  so  finely  placed  might  assume  in  a  room. 

A  long-felt  want  has  been  supplied  by  the  importa- 
tion of  the  Bagdad  rug,  which  makes  it  possible  for  people 


PRETTY   DEVICES   FOR   THE   HOME.  1 65 

of  moderate  means  to  adopt  the  sanitary  method  of  hard- 
wood or  stained  floors,  without  having  to  buy  an  expen- 
sive covering.  Formerly  one  had  to  buy  a  rug  for  $80 
or  $100,  or  else  have  a  square  of  ingrain  or  brussels  made, 
which  was  anything  but  handsome.  These  Bagdad  rugs 
are  nine  feet  seven  inches  long,  five  feet  three  and  one- 
half  inches  wide,  and  are  in  two  styles,  striped  and  mixed. 
The  former  are  $8.75, and  the  latter  $10.75.  Theyare,of 
course,  not  nearly  so  thick  in  texture  nor  so  fine  in  quality 
as  the  Turkish,  but  they  are  closely  woven,  and  appar- 
ently durable. 

Turcoman  portieres  in  olive,  cinnamon  and  blue,  solid 
colors,  with  netted  fringe,  are  $14.50  a  pair;  others,  of 
lighter  weight,  are  only  $9.  A  cotton  material  in  mixed 
colors  of  red  and  blue  and  white  sells  for  $1  a  yard;  it  is 
quite  Oriental  in  effect,  and  would  prove  durable  enough 
if  the  light  upon  it  were  not  too  strong. 

Tinsel  madras  comes  more  heavily  gilt  than  ever,  at 
$1.95  a  yard.      It  will  wear  reasonably  well  with  care. 

Low  wooden  screens  in  imitation  of  oak,  twofold, 
and  ornamented  on  top  with  spindles  and  balls,  may  be 
bought  for  $2.  They  seem  to  be  strong,  and  are  marvels 
of  cheapness  when  compared  with  the  prices  asked  for  the 
simplest  screens  a  few  years  ago.  Taller  ones  are  $3  and 
$4,  and  a  threefold  one,  with  panels  of  Japanese  gold 
embroideries,  is  only  $6.  50.  These  pieces  of  furniture  are 
wonderfully  decorative  as  well  as  useful,  and  it  is  a  pleasure 
to  find  them  cheap  enough  for  every  one  to  have. 

Some  rich-looking  French  tapestry  in  dark  red,  green 
and  oil   gold   grounds   have   brocaded    figures  in    flower 


1 66  FACTS   FOR  LADIES, 

designs ;  they  sell  for  $6.75  a  yard.  They  are  very  thick 
and  heavy,  and  are  suitable  for  upholstered  furniture  or 
for  tufted  chair  cushions.  Where  heavy  portieres  are 
needed,  this  tapestry  would  be  handsome,  although  it 
would  be  necessary  to  have  a  lining,  which  would  add 
considerably  to  the  expense. 

In  the  ordinary  house  it  is  better  to  avoid  elaborate 
draperies,  unless  the  work  is  done  by  experienced  hands  ; 
many  of  the  hangings  that  are  in  the  style  of  Lous  XIV. 
are  a  snare  and  a  delusion  to  the  unwary,  looking  very 
simple  and  easy  of  construction,  but  in  reality  they  are 
most  intricate,  as  they  are  cut  and  made  by  patterns  which 
are  quite  complex,  and  without  which  it  is  impossible  to 
make  them  hang  properly.  They  are  a  pitfall  for  the  in- 
experienced, as  they  are  apt  to  imagine  that  they  are 
draped  carelessly  over  a  pole  ;  an  attempt  at  draping 
them  in  this  way  is  generally  enough  to  satisfy  one  that 
they  are  not  as  they  seem.  So  that,  unless  you  can  have 
the  work  done  by  those  who  make  it  a  business,  and  unless 
the  room  is  in  tone  with  such  hangings,  it  is  much  better 
to  use  plain  straight  hangings,  as  they  are  never  out  of 
place,  and  are  more  dignified  than  an  attempt  that  at  best 
is  but  an  attempt. 

In  this,  as  in  every  other  form  of  decoration,  the  most 
severe  simplicity  is  preferable  to  anything  that  tends 
toward  the  cheap  and  tawdry.  There  are  so  few  people 
who  possess  the  knack  of  using  cheap  and  gaudy  things 
well,  that  in  the  majority  it  is  far  safer  to  eschew  them 
entirely. 


AN   AUTHORITY   ON    DESIGNS.  167 

AN    AUTHORITY    ON    DESIGNS. 

This  is  an  interesting  study — designs  in  furniture.  I 
have  had  the  opinions  of  many  house-furnishers  and 
decorators  on  this  one  point,  and  I  adopt  the  exact  lan- 
guage of  one  who  has  charge  of  the  largest  and  decidedly 
the  richest  collections  in  the  city  of  Chicago.      He  said: 

"  In  the  new  styles  of  furniture  the  designs  are  sim- 
pler, and  the  ornamentation  less  elaborate  and  more  chaste. 
The  same  principles  are  now  followed  in  cabinet-making 
as  in  architecture.  Barring  special  cases,  which  may  be 
regarded  as  exceptions,  there  is  a  growing  disuse  of  orna- 
mentation, purely  as  such.  Designers  are  seeking  more 
and  more  the  beauty  that  results  from  simple,  even 
severe,  lines  and  fine  finish.  In  some  styles,  especially 
of  tables  and  bed-room  sets,  this  is  almost  carried  to 
excess.  The  aim,  of  course,  is  to  produce  striking  effects 
without  such  an  expenditure  of  labor  in  manufacture  as 
to  prohibit* sale,  and,  in  so  far  as  designers  now  sin  in  this 
respect,  I  think  they  sin  on  the  right  side. 

"  Taste  is  now  gravitating  toward  the  antique.  With 
the  exception  of  a  few  patent  devices,  such  as  folding- 
beds,  office  furniture,  and  revolving  book-cases,  nothing 
really  new  has  been  got  out  for  years.  The  Eastlake  pat- 
terns, so  popular  some  time  ago,  were  nothing  but  a  crude 
adaptation  of  the  Gothic.  Painted  furniture,  once  so  popu- 
lar, was  novel  only  in  its  finish.  So,  too,  with  stained 
woods,  which  are  used  only  for  cheap  goods.  All  these 
are  now  out  of  date,  and  designers  are  busy  working  over 
Romanesque,  renaissance,  Louis  IV. ,  and  colonial  patterns. 
We  adapt  and  unite  the  different  types  just  as  modern 
architects    combine    different   styles   of  architecture,   and 


1 68  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

many  of  our  most  pleasing  effects  are  obtained  in  this  way. 
The  popular  fad  keeps  us  within  the  leading-strings  of  the 
antique,  and,  so  far  as  this  requirement  is  met,  we  are  left 
free  to  make  as  many  violations  or  combinations  of  art 
principles  as  we  choose. 

"  In  the  matter  of  woods,  oak  has  precedence.  Cherry 
probably  follows  next.  Birch  and  curly  maple  are  much 
used,  since  they  give  a  pleasing,  dainty  effect  Walnut, 
which  for  some  time  has  been  out  of  favor,  is  gradually 
coming  back  again.  Oak  and  cherry  are  now  what  wal- 
nut used  to  be  —  the  staple  goods  —  and  I  presume  it  will 
not  be  long  before  they,  too,  will  yield  to  the  popular  fancy, 
and  take  the  obscure  corners  of  retail  establishments. 
Mahogany  will  always  be  popular,  but  it  is  too  expensive 
a  material  to  be  of  wide  use.  Good  oak  can  be  had  for 
$50  a  thousand,  and  the  same  quality  of  mahogany  costs 
$150,  and,  when  the  former  will  take  as  fine  a  finish,  and 
give  as  pleasing  an  effect  as  the  latter,  it  is  bound  to  catch 
the  masses." 


HEALTH  OF  WOMEN  AND  CHILDREN 


CHAPTER  I. 

woman's  physical  structure. 

The  health  of  woman  depends  upon  the  physical 
development,  not  alone  of  those  structures  that  are  com- 
mon to  both  sexes,  but  particularly  of  the  special  organs 
and  functions  that  characterize  her  own  sex.  How  impor- 
tant, then,  that  every  mother  and  every  girl  who  expects 
to  become  a  wife  and  mother  should  understand  the  struc- 
ture and  physiological  development  of  those  organs  that 
impose  on  her  special  and  ennobling  duties  in  life,  and  may 
also,  through  ignorance,  entail  life-long  disappointments, 
pain,  sickness,  premature  old  age  and  death. 

To  know  herself,  woman  must  study  the  structure  of 
the  various  organs  of  the  human  body,  and  thus  learn  that 
in  nothing  but  the  organs  of  generation  does  she  materi- 
ally differ  from  her  brother.  She  eats  the  same  food,  and 
this  is  assimilated  by  organs  exactly  the  same  as  those  of 
man.  She  breathes,  thinks,  sees,  feels,  hears  and  tastes 
in  the  same  way  as  he,  and  the  heart,  liver,  kidneys,  skin, 
and  all  other  organs  are  the  same  in  both.  As  a  rule, 
however,  woman  is  smaller  than  man,  and  the  various 
organs  are  proportionately  so,  but  we  often  see  as  much 
difference  in  the  size  of  individuals  of  the  same  sex  as 
there  is  between  men  and  women,  so  that  we  cannot  be 
certain  that  this  difference  in  size  is  not  due  to  difference 

in  environment  in  the  formative  period  of  life. 

169 


1 


170  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

It  is  only  when  we  reach  the  generative  organs  and 
parts  connected  therewith  that  the  real  difference  in  struc- 
ture and  function  is  manifest.  The  hips  of  women  are 
broader  than  those  of  men,  because  the  bones  of  the  pelvis 
(haunch  bones)  are  spread  out  more  to  afford  room  for 
child-bearing;  and  the  mammary  glands,  or  breasts,  are 
developed  in  woman  to  supply  her  offspring  with  proper 
nourishment,  while  there  is  only  a  rudimentary  nipple 
without  a  gland  in  man. 

The  special  organs  of  sex  in  women  are  divided  into 
the  external  and  internal  organs  of  generation,  a  knowl- 
edge of  which  should  be  here  acquired  in  order  to  under- 
stand the  important  questions  hereinafter  discussed. 

THE   EXTERNAL   ORGANS. 

The  external  organs  of  generation  are  situated  on  the 
exterior  of  the  bony  pelvis  or  basin,  where  they  can  be 
readily  seen,  and  are  technically  named:  1st,  the  mons 
veneris,  or  mountain  of  Venus;  2d,  the  labia  majora,  or 
greater  lips;  3d,  the  labia  minora,  or  lesser  lips;  4th,  the 
clitoris;   5th,  the  hymen;  6th,  the  perineum. 

The  Mons  Veneris. — The  mons  veneris  is  a  triangular 
eminence  formed  by  an  accumulation  of  fat  under  the  skin 
at  the  lowest  point  of  the  abdomen,  directly  over  the  bony 
arch  in  front  of  the  pelvis.  It  is  peculiar  to  the  female  sex, 
and  more  prominent  in  young  virgins  than  in  mothers  or 
aged  women.  It  is  also  said  to  be  more  developed  in 
young  women  who  are  natives  of  tropical  climates.  The 
skin  over  the  part  is  smooth  in  early  life,  but  at  puberty  it 
is  covered  with  hair. 

Its  use  has  never  been  satisfactorily  ascertained,  but 
early  writers  claimed  that  it  was  more  elevated  just  before 


THE   EXTERNAL   ORGANS.  171 

the  menstrual  periods  and  during  sexual  excitement,  and 
from  this  supposition  it  derived  the  name,  mons  veneris, 
which  means  mountain  of  Venus,  or  mountain  of  love. 

The  Labia  Majora. — The  labia  majora,  or  greater 
lips,  also  called  "  external  lips,"  are  two  rounded  folds  or 
lips,  extending  longitudinally  from  the  mons  veneris, 
downward  and  backward,  between  the  legs.  They  are 
covered  with  skin,  externally,  and,  after  puberty,  this  skin 
is  covered,  more  or  less,  with  hair.  Internally  they  are 
lined  with  a  delicate  mucous  membrane,  which  is  supplied 
with  glands,  a  fluid  to  prevent  adhesion  of  the  parts  and 
protect  them  against  irritation  from  friction. 

These  lips  cover  the  external  parts,  and  thus  protect 
them  from  external  irritation.  During  labor,  when  the 
child  is  about  to  be  born,  these  lips  elongate  so  as  to 
materially  increase  the  size  of  the  opening,  and  thus  per- 
mit the  ready  passage  of  the  child. 

The  Labia  Minora. — The  labia  minora,  or  lesser  lips, 
also  called  the  internal  lips,  are  two  folds  of  mem- 
brane situated  between  and  parallel  with  the  greater  lips. 
They  are  composed  of  connective  tissue,  contain  blood- 
vessels and  nerves,  and  are  covered  with  mucous  mem- 
brane. Anteriorly  they  unite  and  pass  around  the 
clitoris,  forming  a  hood  which  closely  resembles  the 
foreskin  in  the  male,  while  posteriorly  they  are  blended 
with  the  external  lips.  During  the  excitement  of  copula- 
tion these  lips  become  filled  with  blood  and  somewhat 
erect,  and  are  thus  supposed  to  intensify  sexual  enjoyment. 

The  Clitoris. — The  Clitoris  is  a  small,  red  body 
situated  between  the  anterior  margins  of  the  lesser  lips, 
and  is  attached  to  the  bony  arch  by  two  roots.  In  struc- 
ture and  general  appearance  it    is  like  a  miniature  penis; 


172  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and  is  said  to  be  the  principal  seat  of  sexual  pleasure. 
In  infants  it  appears  of  excessive  size,  often  protruding 
beyond  the  surrounding  parts,  but  this  is  due  to  the  lack 
of  development  of  the  lips.  Like  the  male  organ,  it  be- 
comes erect  and  increases  in  size  during  coition.  In  some 
persons  it  is  inordinately  developed,  and  this  fact  some- 
times occasions  the  belief  that  the  person  is  double  sexed. 

The  Hymen. — The  hymen  is  a  fold  of  mucous  mem- 
brane, which  closes  more  or  less  perfectly  the  orifice  of 
the  vagina.  It  is  crescent  shaped,  with  the  convexity 
directed  downward  and  attached,  while  it  is  usually 
detached  above  so  as  to  leave  a  small  aperture  for  the 
escape  of  secretions  from  the  vagina  and  womb.  It  is 
sometimes  entirely  closed,  while  again  it  may  have  sev- 
eral openings.  It  is  usually  thin  and  easily  ruptured,  but 
sometimes  it  is  found  to  be  thick  and  rigid,  and  may  require 
an  operation  for  its  removal. 

It  has  often  been  said,  and  still  believed  by  many, 
that  the  absence  or  rupture  of  the  hymen  was  an  indication 
of  loss  of  virginity,  but  such  is  not  the  case.  It  may  be 
so  easily  ruptured  by  slight  accidents,  and  even  the  use  of 
a  syringe,  that  great  injustice  must  invariably  result  from 
a  belief  in  this  idea.  Its  presence  is  a  sure  sign  of  virgin- 
ity, but  the  converse  is  not  true. 

The  longitudinal  opening  which  is  brought  to  view 
by  separating  the  lips,  and  which  leads  to  the  vagina,  is 
called  the  vulva.  This  word  is  derived  from  a  Latin  word 
which  means  "  folding  doors."  The  term  is  also  used  to 
include  all  the  external  generative  organs  of  the  female 
when  spoken  of  as  a  whole.  *  Just  inside  of  this  opening, 
posteriorly,  is  a  small  gland  which  secretes  a  liquid  to 
lubricate  the  parts. 


THE   INTERNAL   ORGANS.  1 73 

The  Perineum.  —  The  perineum  is  the  space  between 
the  back  part  of  the  vulva,  and  the  anus,  or  back  passage. 
Though  not  properly  belonging  to  the  generative  organs, 
it  plays  an  important  part  at  childbirth,  as  its  ready  dila- 
tation permits  a  speedy  expulsion  of  the  child,  while  the 
labor  is  greatly  protracted  if  it  is  hard  and  rigid.  It  is 
often  ruptured  during  labor,  and,  unless  properly  attended 
to  at  the  time,  a  serious  operation  is  required. 

All  these  parts  are  liable  to  disease  and  accident,  and 
therefore  a  general  knowledge  of  their  structure  and 
functions  is  necessary  to  an  understanding  of  what  may 
be  hereafter  said  regarding  the  health  of  the  parts. 

THE   INTERNAL   ORGANS. 

Theinternal  organs  of  generation  are:  1st,  the  vagina; 
2d,  the  uterus,  or  womb  ;  3d,  the  Fallopian  tubes  and 
ligaments  ;  4th,  the  ovaries.  They  are  all  hidden  from 
view,  and  contained  in  the  bony  cavity,  or  basin,  formed 
by  the  bones  of  the  pelvis,  or  haunch  bones.  The 
bladder  and  rectum  are  also  contained  in  this  cavity,  and, 
as  they  often  bear  important  relations  to  the  generative 
organs,  they  will  be  briefly  described  in  connection  there- 
with. 

The  Vagina. — The  vagina  is  a  cylindrical  canal  which 
connects  the  internal  with  the  external  organs.  It  is  com- 
posed of  muscular  fibers,  and  is  lined  with  a  delicate 
mucous  membrane.  At  maturity  it  is  from  five  to  six 
inches  long,  and  about  one  inch  in  width,  but  this  varies 
materially  under  different  circumstances  in  life.  It  is 
largely  supplied  with  blood-vessels  and  nerves,  and  is 
highly  sensitive,  especially  near  its  orifice,  where  the  tis- 
sue is  spongy  and  erectile.    Its  upper  extremity  is  attached  to 


174  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

the  upper  part  of  the  neck  of  the  womb,  the  womb  being 
held  by  it  like  a  cork  in  a  bottle,  except  that  the  weight  of 
the  womb  appears  to  invert  the  upper  end  in  such  a  man- 
ner as  to  form  a  circular  groove  between  the  lower  part  of 
the  neck  of  the  womb  and  the  walls  of  the  vagina.  It 
forms  an  outlet  for  the  menstrual  flow  and  for  the  passage 
of  the  child  at  birth.  It  is  also  the  organ  of  copulation. 
It  is  subject  to  inflammation  and  other  disorders  which 
will  be  hereinafter  described. 

The  Uterus. — The  uterus,  or  womb,  is  a  hollow,  pear- 
shaped  organ,  situated  above  the  vagina  and  between  the 
bladder  and  rectum.  It  is  very  small  in  early  childhood, 
but  grows  rapidly,  and  reaches  its  full  size  at  puberty,  when 
it  is  about  three  inches  long,  two  inches  broad  at  its  base, 
and  from  one  to  one  and  one-half  inch  broad  at  the  neck. 
Its  lower  part,  or  neck,  projects  into  the  vagina,  and  is  cov- 
ered by  a  mucous  membrane  which  is  continuous  with 
that  of  the  vagina.  The  mouth  of  the  womb  is  a  small 
oval  aperture  situated  in  the  center  of  the  lower  extrem- 
ity of  the  neck,  and  can  be  readily  felt  with  the  finger  in 
the  vagina.  From  this  a  narrow  canal  leads  into  the 
cavity  of  the  womb.  The  cavity  is  narrow  below,  but 
expands  toward  the  base,  and  has  an  opening  on  each 
side  which  connects  with  the  canals  of  the  Fallopian  tubes. 
The  walls  of  the  womb  are  composed  of  muscular  fibers 
about  half  an  inch  in  thickness,  and  are  lined  internally  by 
mucous  membrane.  Externally  the  womb  is  covered  by 
the  peritoneum,  a  delicate  investing  membrane  which  cov- 
ers and  holds-in  position  most  of  the  organs  of  the  abdo- 
men and  pelvis.  This  membrane,  through  sympathy  with 
the  womb ,  often  becomes  the  seat  of  inflammation,  which  is 
called  peritonitis. 


_______  .  , 


MISS  VAN   AUSTIN, 


THE    INTERNAL   ORGANS.  1 75 

The  impregnated  ovum,  or  egg,  is  retained  in  the 
womb,  and  is  nourished  through  the  period  of  develop- 
ment, and  at  maturity  is  expelled  by  muscular  contraction. 

The  Fallopian  Tubes  and  Ligaments.  —  The  Fallopian 
tubes  are  two  small  canals  which  extend  from  the  upper 
part  of  the  cavity  of  the  womb  to  the  ovaries.  They  are 
from  four  to  five  inches  long,  and  are  placed  between  two 
folds  of  peritoneum,  which  form  the  lateral  or  broad  liga- 
ments. The  external  extremities  of  these  tubes  expand 
like  a  funnel,  and  have  projecting  from  them  a  number  of 
finger-like  projections.  One  of  these  is  attached  to  the 
ovaries,  while  the  others  are  free,  and  float  around  in  a 
vibrating,  wavy  manner.  When  the  egg  ripens  in  the 
ovary,  these  finger-like  appendages  grasp  the  ovary,  and 
suck  the  egg  into  the  expanded  end  of  the  tube,  and  it 
then  passes  along  till  it  reaches  the  womb.  The  canal  is 
very  small,  and  would  with  difficulty  admit  the  passage  of 
the  finest  knitting  needle. 

The  ligaments,  with  one  exception,  are  folds  of  the 
peritoneum,  so  arranged  as  to  help  to  hold  the  womb  in 
position.  The  broad,  or  lateral  ligaments,  inclose  the 
Fallopian  tubes  and  ovaries  in  their  folds,  and  are  thus 
more  important  than  the  others.  There  are  two  lateral, 
two  anterior  and  two  posterior  ligaments  formed  by  the 
peritoneum.  The  round  ligaments  are  two  small  cords, 
six  or  seven  inches  long,  which  are  attached  to  the  sides 
of  the  womb,  and  pass  up  inside  the  pelvis,  come  out  of  an 
opening  in  the  groin  called  the  inguinal  canal,  and  then 
divide  into  a  number  of  little  branches  which  pass  into  the 
tissues  of  the  vulva.  Their  use  is  not  known,  but  they  are 
frequently  the  seat  of  inflammation  when  the  womb  is 
irritated. 


176  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

The  Ovaries. — The  ovaries,  or  egg-beds,  are  two 
small  bodies  in  a  degree  analogous  to  the  testicles  of  the 
male.  They  are  situated  one  on  each  side  of  the  womb, 
and  about  two  and  a  half  inches  distant  from  it.  Exter- 
nally they  are  covered  by  a  dense,  firm  fibrous  coat, 
which  incloses  a  soft  fibrous  tissue,  which  is  abundantly 
supplied  with  blood-vessels.  In  this  tissue  are  found 
numerous  small  round  bodies  called  Graafian  vesicles. 
These  are  the  sacs  which  contain  the  eggs,  and,  when 
ready  to  burst,  they  are  found  near  the  surface,  so  that, 
when  the  egg  escapes,  it  is  at  once  seized  by  the  finger- 
like extremities  of  the  Fallopian  tubes  and  carried  to  the 
uterus. 

The  ovaries  are  often  the  seat  of  disease,  and  it  is 
sometimes  necessary  to  remove  them  to  effect  a  cure. 


CHAPTER   II. 

MAIDENHOOD. 

MAIDENHOOD,  in  its  broadest  sense,  means  the  state 
of  being  a  virgin,  but  the  term  is  used  here  to  indicate 
the  period  between  puberty  and  maturity,  which  covers 
about  six  to  eight  years.  The  term  puberty  is  derived 
from  a  Latin  word  which  means  "  to  begin  to  have  hair," 
and  the  name  pubis  is  given  to  the  bony  prominence  at 
the  lower  boundary  of  the  abdomen,  just  above  the  gener- 
ative organs,  where  the  hair  grows.  In  its  broader  senses 
the  word  puberty  is  used  to  indicate  the  beginning  of  the 
period  when  people  are  capable  of  procreation,  or  bear- 
ing children. 

The  age  of  puberty  varies  according  to  temperament, 
climate  and  mode  of  life.  In  girls  it  usually  ranges 
from  the  twelfth  to  the  fourteenth  year,  and  in  boys  from 
the  fourteenth  to  the  sixteenth  year.  Girls  develop  more 
rapidly  in  warm  climates,  and  puberty  is  sometimes 
attained  as  early  as  the  tenth  year,  while  in  very  cold 
countries  it  is  not  reached  before  the  age  of  sixteen  or 
even  eighteen.  In  some  cases  even  in  our  own  climate 
girls  are  not  developed  till  their  sixteenth  or  seventeenth 
year. 

As  the  girl  approaches  puberty,  hair  grows  around  the 
generative  organs,  her  breasts  enlarge,  her  hips  broaden, 
her  limbs  round  out,  and  her  whole  form  takes  on  a  classic 
beauty.  Like  the  budding  flower,  she  expands  in  every 
way  till  at  last  she  blooms  forth  a  blushing  maiden.     New 


178  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

forces  are  now  at  work  in  her  organism,  and  the  romping, 
forward  girl  is  lost  in  the  retiring,  bashful,  sensitive  being 
who  has  just  crossed  the  threshhold  that  separates  her 
from  her  brother  and  leads  to  the  development  of  perfect 
womanhood. 

A  new  and  individual  functional  life  now  begins,  the 
nature  of  which  should  have  been  fully  explained  to  her 
before,  and  by  her  mother.  The  ovaries  and  uterus,  which 
have  been  undergoing  a  gradual  development  from  baby- 
hood, now  take  on  their  special  activities  and  the  period  of 
menstruation  begins.  It  is  the  appearance  of  the  menstrual 
flow  that  marks  the  sexual  development  that  is  complete 
at  the  age  of  puberty,  and,  when  this  occurs,  the  girl  is 
capable  of  becoming  a  mother. 

It  has  long  been  the  custom  of  physicians  and  parents 
to  consider  this  as  the  critical  period  in  the  life  of 
woman,  and  much  has  been  said  and  written  concerning 
the  great  care  with  which  the  girl  should  be  watched  dur- 
ing the  first  months  of  menstruation.  This  has  been 
looked  upon  as  the  period  of  sexual  development,  while 
in  fact  the  appearance  of  the  menstrual  flow  marks  the 
completeness  of  ovarian  and  uterine  development,  and 
the  commencement  of  a  health  function  which  can  only 
result  from  healthy  and  fully  developed  organs. 

Dr.  Ely  Van  de  Walker,  writing  on  "  The  Genesis  of 
Woman,"  in  the  Popular  Science  Monthly  for  July,  1 88 1 , 
touches  the  key-notes  of  this  subject  in  the  following 
words: 

"  Young  women  become  objects  of  parental  and  med- 
ical solicitude  at  a  period  when  it  will  have  but  little 
influence  on  the  perfection  or  imperfection  of  their  sexual 
life.     By  the  keenness  of  the  vision  directed  to  this  period 


MAIDENHOOD.  1 79 

of  woman's  genesis,  they  are  blinded  to  all  the  years  of 
formative  childhood.  Perfect  function  is  an  expression  of 
perfect  organs.  Women  do  not  reach  the  inception  of 
ovarian  life  with  organs  in  an  infantile  condition.  During 
the  years  of  childhood  structural  evolution  goes  on,  and 
ends  in  the  climax  of  function.  It  naturally  follows  that 
during  the  period  of  structural  development  are  sown  the 
seeds  of  ovarian  ill  health." 

Dr.  Van  de  Walker  discusses  the  subject  at  length, 
and  then  draws  the  following  conclusions: 

First. — "  That  sex,  structurally  and  functionally,  from 
infancy  to  puberty,  is  in  a  state  of  slow  and  progressive 
evolution."  ^ 

Second. — "  That  the  time  occupied  in  the  establish- 
ment of  ovulation  is  not  the  true  crisis  in  the  development 
of  women." 

Third. — "  That  under  value  has  been  given  to  sim- 
ple ovarian  growth  and  function  as  a  factor  in  the  develop- 
ment of  womanly  mental  and  structural  peculiarities." 

Fourth. —  "  That  in  a  state  of  health  the  inception  of 
the  ovarian  function  is  never  paroxysmal  or  sudden." 

Fifth. —  "  That  perfect  structural  development  is  fol- 
lowed by  perfect  function,  and  that  the  reverse  of  this 
is  true." 

Sixth. —  "  That  early  diseased  ovulation  is  mainly  the 
result  of  physical,  moral  and  hygienic  faults  of  the  true 
crisis  of  woman  —  that  of  formative  childhood  —  rather 
than  of  the  period  of  puberty." 

He  then  adds:  "  With  these  facts  before  us,  is  it  not 
legitimate  to  assume  that  the  puberic  period  in  woman's 
life  has  been  overestimated  in  its  direct  influence  upon 
her  health  at   that   and   subsequent  periods?     Instead   of 


l80  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

curtailing  her  opportunities  for  work  and  study,  by  throw- 
ing around  her  restrictions,  and,  as  it  were,  creating  a 
disability  out  of  a  natural  function,  transfer  the  attention 
and  anxiety  now  lavished  upon  her  to  a  period  when  all 
that  makes  woman  in  the  best  and  noblest  sense  is  in  the 
process  of  elaboration;  for  it  is  during  this  time  of  rapid 
structural  change  that  the  future  good  or  bad  health  is 
determined.  Let  healthy  ovulation  be  the  natural  out- 
come of  healthy  childhood,  and  the  function  will  obey  its 
law  of  periodicity  year  by  year,  and  all  this  time  the 
young  woman  is  as  able  to  sustain  uninterrupted  physical 
and  intellectual  work  as  the  young  man.  I  do  not  wish 
to  be  understood  as  saying  that  at  puberty,  or  at  any 
other  period  of  woman's  life,  the  laws  of  health  may  be 
violated  with  impunity,  but  that  a  law  of  health  is  no  more 
binding  upon  the  young  woman  than  upon  the  young 
man;  that  really  there  is  no  such  thing  as  one  law  for 
women,  and  another  for  men.  But  the  law  of  the  woman 
is  not  the  law  of  the  child.  The  woman  must  follow  those 
laws  of  health  that  keep  her  healthy;  the  child  must  be 
trained  to  obey  those  which  will  insure  health  in  the  woman. 
If  I  am  right  in  tracing  ovarian  functional  derangement 
mainly  to  the  structural  crisis,  it  is  evident  that  the  child 
must  be  an  object  of  careful  attention.  It  is  not  my 
purpose  to  mention  the  causes  which  will  vitiate  the 
development  of  the  child.  I  desire  to  direct  attention  to 
this  period  as  one  full  of  danger  to  the  future  woman. 
Lest  I  be  accused  of  ascribing  too  many  of  the  disasters 
to  which  the  functional  health  of  woman  is  liable  to  the 
period  of  childhood,  I  will  say  that  women,  and  all  the 
functions  peculiar  to  their  sex,  are  liable  to  accident  and 
disease  at  any  time;   but,  if  we  accept  the  evidence  of  the 


MAIDENHOOD.  l8l 

intelligent  people  who  have  the  opportunity  of  observing 
large  numbers  of  young  women  in  schools  and  colleges, 
the  early  period  of  sexual  function  is  not  so  liable  to 
disease  as  when  women  are  called  upon  to  perform  some 
of  the  higher  duties  of  their  being,  later  in  life.  *  * 
My  aim  has  been  to  fix,  if  possible,  the  actual  value  of 
the  puberic  age  of  woman  as  a  crisis,  so  that  there  may 
be  no  factitious  bar  to  her  progress  to  either  a  higher 
education,  or  for  her  training  for  any  of  the  skilled  labors 
suited  to  her  strength." 

This  is  the  only  rational  view  to  take  of  sexual  devel- 
opment, and  the  chapters  on  "  Babyhood,"  "  Childhood" 
and  "  Girlhood,"  will  fully  consider  the  conditions  under 
which  such  development  can  be  brought  about.  Yet 
there  are  dangers  incidental  to  puberty  which  must  not  be 
overlooked. 

I  have  already  stated  that  at  puberty  the  girl  is  capa- 
ble of  becoming  a  mother.  It  is  probable  that  in  the 
early  history  of  our  race,  before  the  stamp  of  civilization 
impressed  itself  upon  mankind,  woman  may  have  been 
sufficiently  developed  physically  to  reproduce  her  kind; 
but,  then,  the  necessities  of  providing  for  offspring  were 
not  recognized,  nor  was  there  any  intellectual  develop- 
ment to  be  considered.  Under  our  present  civilization, 
however,  the  girl  who  has  just  arrived  at  puberty  has  not 
fully  matured.  In  fact,  the  sexual  organs  alone  have 
developed  sufficiently  to  prepare  her  for  motherhood. 
Through  centuries  of  heredity  and  environment  her  body 
has  been  doomed  to  a  slow  process  of  growth  which  is 
not  complete  till  the  age  of  twenty-one  or  twenty-two 
years  at  least;  while  opportunities  of  mental  development 
have  long   been   denied   her  at   the   very  time  when  her 


1 82  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

brother  is  expected  to  make  the  most  progress,  because 
a  natural  function  has  been  looked  upon  as  a  diseased 
condition  which  disqualified  her  from  performing  either 
mental  or  physical  labor.  The  sooner  women  learn  the 
fallacy  of  this  idea  the  better  it  will  be  for  the  rising  gen- 
eration. 

Let  it  be  understood  that  maidenhood  is  the  time  to 
expand  and  develop  the  girl  into  perfect  womanhood;  let 
it  be  impressed  upon  every  maiden  that  she  is  not  yet 
fitted  for  the  duties  of  wifehood  and  motherhood,  except- 
ing in  the  sense  that  an  animal  is  so  fitted;  let  her  under- 
stand that  she  has  passed  the  days  of  girlhood,  and  that 
she  must  now  fit  herself  for  the  more  important  moral 
duties  of  life.  If  she  would  be  a  housekeeper,  this  is  the 
time  for  her  to  inform  herself  of  all  the  important  duties 
connected  therewith;  if  she  desires  to  pursue  any  special 
calling  in  life,  now  is  the  time  she  can  do  so  to  the  best 
advantage;  and,  if  she  aims  at  a  higher  education,  the 
years  of  maidenhood  are  the  ones  she  should  employ  to 
place  her  by  the  side  of  her  brother  in  the  search  for 
knowledge. 

At  the  same  time  she  must  observe  the  laws  of  health, 
she  must  take  proper  exercise  to  secure  muscular  devel- 
opment; she  must  be  clothed  so  as  to  meet  the  vicissi- 
tudes of  the  seasons,  and  at  the  same  time  not  interfere 
with  any  of  the  natural  functions  of  the  body,  and,  above 
all,  she  must  avoid  tight  lacing,  thin  and  narrow  shoes, 
and  high  heels. 

Exposure  to  cold  or  wet  at  any  time  may  result  in 
sore  throat,  bronchitis,  pneumonia,  rheumatism,  neuralgia 
etc.,  yet  people  are  often  so  exposed  without  any  bad 
results.      So  it  is  with  exposure   just  before  or  during  the 


HIGHER   EDUCATION    OF   WOMEN.  1 83 

menstrual  period.  A  person  may  be  exposed  a  hundred 
times  without  any  bad  result,  yet  at  any  time  such  ex- 
posure may  result  in  menstrual  suppression  or  other 
functional  disturbance.  It  is  therefore  especially  advis- 
able to  avoid  getting  the  feet  or  clothes  wet  during  the 
menstrual  period. 

The  injuries  of  tight  lacing  during  maidenhood  cannot 
be  overlooked.  The  organs  of  digestion,  as  well  as  the 
womb  and  ovaries,  are  displaced  by  it,  and  hence  con- 
gestion, inflammation  and  functional  disturbances  are 
sure  to  follow,  and  when  they  occur  the  cause  is  over- 
looked, and  it  is  claimed  that  they  are  due  to  the  tyranny 
of  her  organization.  Again  high-heeled  boots  change  the 
natural  axis  of  the  body  and  give  rise  to  uterine  dis- 
placements which  are  supposed  to  be  the  natural  heritage 
of  women. 

If  we  are  to  have  healthy  women  the  years  between 
puberty  and  maturity  must  be  guarded  so  far  as  the 
observance  of  the  general  laws  of  health  are  concerned 
andthe  correction  of  the  errors  of  the  past  in  everything 
that  relates  to  women. 

HIGHER    EDUCATION    OF   WOMEN. 

At  this  late  day  it  is  hardly  necessary  to  make  a  plea 
for  the  higher  education  of  women.  They  have  so  uni- 
versally demonstrated  their  fitness  to  pursue  the  higher 
education,  and  their  ability  to  compete  successfully  with 
men,  that  their  strongest  opponents  have  been  long  since 
silenced.  Yet  many  still  adhere  to  the  belief  that  the 
majority  of  girls  are  unfitted  to  pursue  the  same  course  of 
study  as  boys  on  account  of  the  peculiarities  of  their  sex. 
Dr.  Maudsley,  of  London;  Dr.  Clark,  of  Boston,  and  others, 


1 84  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

have  claimed  that  the  menstrual  function  makes  woman  an 
invalid  for  one-quarter  of  each  month,  and  thus  renders 
her  incapable  of  pursuing  her  educational  advantages  con- 
tinuously. When  such  a  condition  does  exist,  it  will 
always  be  found  to  result  from  the  tyranny  of  modern  civ- 
ilization, and  not  from  the  tyranny  of  woman's  organization. 
Perfect  organization  means  perfect  function,  and  any 
natural  function  does  not  interfere  either  with  proper 
mental  or  physical  effort.  If  it  were  true  that  woman  is 
incapacitated  for  labor  one-quarter  of  each  month,  why 
should  not  some  sympathy  be  extended  to  the  thousands 
of  girls  and  women  who  are  compelled  to  work  the  year 
round  from  early  morning  till  late  at  night  in  the  factories, 
stores,  kitchens  and  fields  all  over  the  world. 

When  this  side  of  the  question  is  touched,  many  are 
willing  to  acknowledge  that  the  menstrual  function  is 
normal,  and  may  be  perfectly  healthy,  and  that  it  is  not 
deranged  by  physical  labor;  yet  they  adhere  to  the  belief 
that  in  consequence  of  that  function  women  differ  from 
men  in  their  modes  of  thought.  They  even  say  that  this 
difference  is  noticed  in  early  childhood,  and,  as  an  instance 
of  it,  quote  the  passion  little  girls  have  for  dolls.  I  need 
not  tell  any  one  who  has  studied  the  habits  of  children 
that  this  supposed  difference  does  not  exist,  except  as  it 
has  been  developed  by  environment.  Give  a  little  girl 
her  choice  between  out-door  sports  and  the  most  beauti- 
ful dolls,  and  see  how  soon  the  dolls  are  forgotten;  observe 
how  she  deserts  her  doll  for  the  rougher  toys  of  her 
brother,  and  then  say  if, you  can  that  the  instinct  of  her 
sex  makes  her  fond  of  dolls. 

Examine  the  brain  of  woman  by  the  most  careful 
examination  to  which  it  can  be  subjected,  and  you  cannot 


HIGHER   EDUCATION   OF   WOMEN.  1 85 

detect  the  slightest  difference  between  it  and  the  brain  of 
man,  except  that  in  size  it  is  proportionate  to  the  body, 
which  is  smaller  than  man's  on  account  of  the  lack  of  phys- 
ical exercise  to  favor  development.  But  even  in  size  the 
difference  is  not  as  great  as  has  usually  been  claimed,  but 
it  is  a  well  known  fact  that  the  brains  of  our  great  men 
have  been  taken  as  a  standard,  while  those  of  women  that 
have  been  examined  have  usually  been  taken  from  the 
unfortunate  and  usually  uneducated  class  who  die  in  our 
institutions. 

Now,  if  the  brain  in  both  sexes  is  the  same,  and  is 
thought  is  a  function  of  the  brain,  as  is  now  generally 
believed  by  scientists,  the  methods  of  thought  must  in  the 
main  be  similar.  It  is  true  that  it  is  influenced  by  educa- 
tion and  the  surroundings  of  every-day  life,  but  there  is 
no  more  difference  in  the  method  of  thought  in  the  two 
sexes  than  there  is  in  those  of  two  individuals  of  the  same 
sex.  If  woman  has  not  thought  as  deeply  as  man,  it  is  not 
because  she  is  incapable  of  doing  so,  but  because,  till 
recently,  she  has  not  had  the  opportunity  of  preparing 
herself  for  so  doing.  Whenever  she  has  had  a  chance,  or 
when  she  has  had  the  courage  to  win  her  way  in  spite  of 
opposition  and  disadvantage,  she  has  proven  herself  equal 
to  her  brothers.  In  the  field  of  literature,  on  the  stage, 
on  the  rostrum  and  in  the  medical  profession,  she  has  won 
golden  opinions  from  an  exacting  world,  and  in  all  these  I 
will  defy  the  most  acute  critic  to  point  out  wherein  her 
methods,  or  the  results  obtained,  differ  from  those  of 
men. 

The  verdict  of  colleges  where  women  are  admitted 
on  an  equality  with  men,  is  that  female  students  are  as 
regular  in  attendance  and  as  proficient  in  their  studies  as 


1 86  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

males.  And  this,  too,  at  a  time  when  the  way  is  just 
beginning  to  be  opened  up  to  them,  and  when  they  have 
not  had  equal  advantages  of  an  early  physical  education. 
Carefully  collected  statistics  prove  that  there  is  no  truth 
in  the  old  notion  that,  during  the  menstrual  period,  girls 
were  unable  to  attend  college  or  to  pursue  their  studies. 
It  is  true  that  some  girls  break  down  in  health  while 
attending  school,  but  in  every  instance  the  cause  of  their 
failing  health  will  be  found  to  be  entirely  independent  of 
their  menstrual  function. 

Go  where  we  will,  examine  this  question  from  every 
possible  standpoint,  and  we  can  find  no  evidence  to  prove 
that  there  is  sex  in  mind  or  in  education.  All  the  differ- 
ences that  do  exist  result  from  false  usages  of  society, 
from  the  desire  of  our  American  mothers  to  worship  at 
the  shrine  of  fashion,  upon  whose  altars  they  have  for 
generations  placed  their  daughters  as  willing  sacrifices. 

The  dawn  of  a  new  era  has  appeared,  and  more 
rational  ideas  of  the  education  of  women  are  occupying 
the  attention  of  thinking  men  and  women  all  over  the 
world.  It  must  be  remembered  that  the  formative  period 
from  infancy  to  puberty  should  be  largely  devoted  to 
securing  a  healthy  physical  development,  without  which 
all  attempt  at  education  must  prove  a  failure.  Then  the 
threshhold  between  girlhood  and  maidenhood  is  passed  by 
the  establishment  of  healthy  sexual  function,  and  the  young 
woman  is  prepared  to  enter  the  lists  with  her  brother  and 
pursue  the  curriculum  of  college  and  university  education 
with  the  same  assurance  of  success  as  has  heretofore  been 
accorded  to  man  alone. 

Now  the  girl  is  expected  to  complete  her  education 
at  sixteen  or  eighteen,  and  to  marry   at  twenty.      Under 


HIGHER   EDUCATION   OF   WOMEN.  1 87 

the  more  enlightened  methods  just  beginning,  her  period 
of  education,  like  her  brother's,  will  extend  to  the  age  of 
twenty-one,  by  which  she  will  have  attained  a  degree  of 
intellectual  development  that  will  enable  her  to  under- 
stand the  duties  and  obligations  of  womanhood  and 
motherhood,  which  can  alone  fit  her  for  wifehood. 

Her  education  must  be  directed  primarily  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  herself,  to  the  structural  and  functional  laws  of 
her  being.  Then  she  should  be  permitted  to  select  such 
special  studies  as  her  tastes  and  inclinations  dictate;  and 
she  should  be  made  to  understand  that  marriage  for  a 
home  is  degraded  servitude,  and  that  the  self-supporting 
woman  is  sure  to  make  a  happy  marriage,  and  to  become 
a  loving  wife,  a  devoted  mother,  and  a  noble  and  re- 
spected woman. 


CHAPTER  III. 

MENSTRUATION  AND  OVULATION. 

Menstruation  -  Ovulation  —  Absence  of  Menses  —  Suppression  of 
Menses  —  Chlorosis  —  Painful  Menstruation  —  Profuse  Men- 
struation —  Change  of  Life. 

Maidenhood  is  ushered  in  by  the  establishment  of 
the  normal  ovarian  and  uterine  functions,  which  are  mani- 
fested by  a  sanguineous  discharge  from  the  vagina,  and 
for  which  every  girl  should  be  prepared  by  a  full  explana- 
tion from  her  mother  or  teacher.  This  discharge  occurs 
periodically  once  every  twenty-eight  days  from  the  time  it 
shows  itself,  excepting  during  pregnancy  and  the  nursing 
period,  for  about  thirty  years.  The  term  menstruation  is 
the  technical  name  by  which  this  flow  is  usually  desig- 
nated, and  it  means  the  flow  of  menses,  or  monthlies.  It 
it  also  designated  by  many  other  names,  as  menses,  month- 
lies, catamenia,  courses,  turns,  terms,  periods,  flowers, 
monthly  sickness,  etc.  Many  of  these  names  are  purely 
local,  and  are  therefore  unintelligible  to  women  in  other 
localities. 

This  flow  of  blood  is  always  dependent  on  ovulation, 
or  the  ripening  and  escape  of  the  ovum,  or  egg,  from  the 
ovary.  It  is  generally  supposed  that  menstruation  and 
ovulation  are  one  and  the  same  process,  but  recent  investi- 
gation  has    established   the  fact  that,  while  menstruation 


MENSTRUATION   AND    OVULATION.  1 89 

cannot  take  place  without  ovulation,  the  latter  does  often 
take  place  without  the  former. 

It  is  estimated  that  there  are  at  least  thirty-six  thou- 
sand ova,  or  eggs,  in  each  ovary;  therefore,  in  the  human 
family,  only  a  very  small  number  of  these  meet  with  the 
conditions  necessary  for  fruition.  These  eggs  exist  even 
in  foetal  life,  and  doubtless  undergo  a  gradual  development 
from  birth  to  puberty.  An  examination  of  the  ovaries 
just  before  puberty  would  show  their  surfaces  studded 
with  numerous  nodules  or  projections,  which  are  found  to 
consist  of  sacs  called  Graafian  vesicles,  after  the  anatomist 
who  first  described  them.  These  sacs  contain  the  eggs 
that  have  attained  the  greatest  development,  and  when 
puberty  is  reached  one  of  these  vesicles  becomes  con- 
gested and  the  further  development  of  the  eggs  takes 
place  more  rapidly.  The  size  of  the  egg  and  excessive 
amount  of  blood  in  the  part  cause  the  Graafian  vesicle  to 
rupture,  and  thus  the  egg  escapes  from  the  ovary.  At  this 
moment  the  finger-like  extremities  of  the  Fallopian  tube 
grasp  the  ovary  and  the  escaped  egg  is  sucked  into  the 
canal  that  leads  to  the  womb.  As  a  rule  it  takes  the  egg 
about  fourteen  days  to  pass  through  the  Fallopian  tube 
and  out  of  the  womb,  unless  it  is  impregnated  during  its 
passage,  in  which  case  it  is  lodged  in  the  womb.  After 
the  first  egg  escapes,  it  leaves  a  cavity  in  the  Graafian 
vesicle,  which  gradually  contracts  into  a  small  yellow  spot, 
called,  from  its  color,  the  corpus  luteum,  or  yellow  body. 
As  soon  as  one  egg  escapes,  another  vesicle  begins  to 
enlarge,  and  in  about  four  weeks  it  has  matured,  and 
escapes  the  same  as  before  described. 

This  process  of  the  development  of  the  egg  and  its 
escape  from  the  vesicle  is  attended   by  a   marked  conges- 


190  FACTS   FOR   LADIES 

tion,  not  only  of  the  ovary  but  also  of  the  womb,  and,  as 
that  organ  contains  a  complicated  net-work  of  blood- 
vessels, it  is  easy  for  those  vessels  to  become  distended 
with  blood  to  their  fullest  capacity. 

In  this  engorged  condition  of  the  womb  a  consider- 
able amount  of  blood  is  filtered  through  the  coats  of  the 
veins  and  through  the  mucous  lining  of  the  womb  into 
its  cavity,  and  from  there  it  escapes  by  the  neck  of  the 
womb  into  the  vagina.  It  is  this  blood,  mixed  with 
mucus  and  scales  from  the  mucous  membranes  of  the 
parts  through  which  it  passes,  that  constitutes  the  men- 
strual flow,  and  it  is  clear  that  its  appearance  is  due 
entirely  to  the  process  of  ovulation. 

Normal  menstruation  should  come  on  at  regular 
intervals,  without  pain  or  sickness  in  any  form,  and,  when 
these  are  present,  they  show  that  there  is  some  abnormal 
condition  of  the  womb  or  ovaries,  or  both.  The  flow 
lasts  from  three  to  six  days,  depending  on  the  condition 
of  the  person,  the  plethoric  or  full  blooded  usually  having 
a  greater  flow  than  the  naturally  delicate  and  nervous. 
In  many  cases,  however,  a  profuse  flow  indicates  general 
debility,  even  where  no  immediate  symptoms  of  an 
unfavorable  character  are  recognized. 

The  menstrual  blood  in  health  resembles  venous 
blood,  except  that  it  does  not  coagulate  or  clot  when  it 
comes  in  contact  with  the  air.  In  all  cases  where  the 
blood  clots,  the  flow  is  attended  with  pain,  and  is  there- 
fore unhealthy. 

As  stated  in  the  preceding  chapter,  the  age  at  which 
sexual  development  terminates  in  the  establishment  of 
healthy  function  varies  in  different  climates  and  in  different 
individuals  in  the  same  climate.      In  Persia,  Arabia,  Egypt 


':/ 


ISABELLE   URQUHART. 


MENSTRUATION   AND    OVULATION.  191 

and  other  parts  of  Africa  the  menses  appear  at  the  age  of 
nine  or  ten  years;  in  Italy,  Greece  and  Spain,  at  about 
twelve;  in  our  own  country  and  those  in  corresponding  lat- 
itude, it  commences  at  fourteen  or  fifteen;  while  in  elevated 
northern  regions  it  does  not  show  itself  till  after  the  twen- 
tieth year  of  age.  Girls  who  are  brought  up  amid  the 
excitement  and  frivolities  of  city  life,  usually  menstruate 
earlier  than  those  who  have  developed  among  the  healthy 
environments  of  the  country;  and  brunettes  menstruate 
earlier  than  blondes.  But,  when  menstruation  once  sets  in, 
it  usually  lasts  in  all  alike  for  about  thirty  years;  and,  in 
calculating  the  time  for  the  cessation  of  the  menses,  we 
have  as  a  rule  to  find  out  the  age  at  which  the  flow  began, 
and,  by  adding  thirty  to  that,  we  get  the  age  at  which  we 
may  expect  the  "  change  of  life. " 

While  healthy  menstruation  does  not  interfere  with  a 
woman's  mental  or  physical  labor,  yet  it  does  not  follow 
that  she  should  be  imprudent  and  disregard  the  laws  oi 
health  at  this  time.  Exposure  to  wet  and  rain  will  often 
result  in  an  arrest  of  the  flow,  which  may  be  followed 
by  serious  complications,  but  at  another  time  a  similar 
exposure  might  act  as  an  exciting  cause  for  an  attack  of 
rheumatism,  neuralgia,  pneumonia  or  bronchitis.  In 
either  case  it  is  always  safe  to  avoid  at  all  times  any 
unnecessary  exposure  of  this  kind.  Though  "  Cleanliness 
is  next  to  godliness,"  it  must  be  borne  in  mind  that  cold 
water  should  not  be  used  for  local  bathing  during  the 
continuance  of  the  period.  Use  warm  or  even  hot  water 
to  cleanse  the  parts,  and,  with  most  persons,  an  injection 
into  the  vagina,  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  may  be  used  with 
advantage  once  a  day  during  the  continuance  of  the 
flow. 


192  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

After  the  flow  has  ceased,  no  woman  should  neglect 
to  cleanse  the  vagina  by  a  free  injection  of  warm  water. 
For  this  purpose  a  teaspoonful  of  pure  carbolic  acid 
should  be  put  into  a  quart  of  tepid  water,  and  this  entire 
quantity  thrown  into  the  vagina  with  a  fountain  or  bulb 
syringe.  This  removes  all  particles  of  blood  and  mucus, 
which  might  otherwise  decompose  and  cause  a  disagree- 
able odor,  if  not  an  irritation  of  the  vagina. 

In  some  cases  a  girl  fourteen  or  fifteen  may  not  have 
developed  either  in  the  breasts  or  hips,  and  of  course  the 
menses  do  not  appear.  In  such  cases  no  attempt  should 
be  made  to  force  menstruation  by  any  system  of  medica- 
tion, for  the  lack  of  development  is  an  evidence  that  the 
system  is  not  yet  prepared  for  the  establishment  of  the 
sexual  function.  In  other  cases,  however,  the  physical 
development  has  gone  on  up  to  the  time  when  the  men- 
strual flow  should  appear,  but  it  fails  to  do  so.  Here  we 
have  conditions  that  require  special  attention,  which  they 
will  receive  under  the  headings  of  "  Absent  Menstrua- 
tion," and  "  Chlorosis,  or  Green  Sickness." 

ABSENT    MENSTRUATION. 

Menstruation  may  be  absent  in  consequence  of  the 
absence  of  the  ovaries  or  womb,  in  which  case  the  girl 
remains  undeveloped,  or  even  has  a  masculine  appearance. 
There  may  also  be  a  tardy  development  of  the  generative 
organs,  as  before  stated.  In  both  these  cases  we  must 
wait  so  long  as  the  general  health  does  not  suffer. 

Again,  the  development  may  be  complete,  the  general 
health  apparently  good,  and  pronounced  symptoms  of 
painful  menstruation  present,  yet  no  flow  shows  itself. 
In  such  cases  there  may  be  an  occlusion  or  complete  clos- 


ABSENT   MENSTRUATION.  1 93 

ure  of  the  mouth  of  the  womb,  of  the  vagina  or  vulva,  or 
the  hymen  may  close  the  opening  completely.  In  all 
such  cases  the  family  physician  should  be  consulted  at 
once,  and,  if  he  seems  in  doubt,  an  experienced  surgeon 
should  be  called  without  delay. 

When  the  body  and  generative  organs  are  fully  devel- 
oped and  the  menses  do  not  appear  at  the  proper  time, 
we  cannot  fail  to  recognize  a  chain  of  symptoms  that 
clearly  indicate  the  nature  of  the  trouble.  The  most  pro- 
nounced symptoms  are  a  sensation  of  fullness  in  the  head, 
with  a  beating,  throbbing  headache;  pain  in  the  back  and 
loins;  slow  pulse,  irregular  circulation,  with  hands  and 
feet  alternately  hot  and  cold;  a  florid  countenance,  and, 
at  times,  a  clammy  skin,  which  again  becomes  harsh  and 
dry. 

These  symptoms  are  usually  the  outcome  of  sedentary 
life,  and  indulgence  in  rich  and  indigestible  food,  and  are 
never  met  with  in  girls  who  have  been  properly  reared 
according  to  the  rules  laid  down  in  the  chapter  on  "  Child- 
hood. " 

Congestion  of  the  womb  and  a  sluggish  or  inactive 
condition  of  the  blood-vessels  of  that  organ  give  rise  to 
these  symptoms  by  preventing  the  menstrual  blood  from 
filtering  through  into  the  cavity  of  the  womb.  The 
result  is  that  the  womb  and  ovaries  become  enlarged,  and 
and  press  upon  the  nerves  that  supply  them,  and  the  blood 
that  should  thus  escape  is  by  degrees  returned  to  the 
the  general  circulation.  Until  the  flow  is  regularly  estab- 
lished these  symptoms  recur  every  month  with  increased 
severity,  and  in  a  short  time  the  general  health  suffers, 
and  the  victim  falls  into  a  decline. 

Sometimes   menstruation  is  established  at  the  proper 
13 


194  FACTS  FOR   LADIES. 

time,  and  is  suddenly  suppressed.  This  may  occur  at 
any  age,  and  may  result  from  exposure  to  cold  or  damp 
during  the  menstrual  period.  Girls  who  have  not  been 
instructed,  often  make  an  effort  to  hide  the  blood  on  the 
first  appearance  of  the  menses  by  bathing  the  parts  in  cold 
water,  thus  suddenly  contracting  the  blood-vessels  of  the 
womb  and  stopping  the  flow.  Severe  mental  emotion 
preceding  or  during  the   flow   may  also  cause  suppression. 

On  recovering  from  a  fever,  or  other  acute  disease,  the 
menses  may  fail  to  appear  for  some  time,  and  in  consump- 
tion and  other  wasting  diseases  they  stop  suddenly  and 
remain  permanently  absent. 

Where  the  flow  has  once  been  normally  developed 
and  then  remains  absent,  it  is  important  to  determine 
whether  the  cessation  is  due  to  pregnancy  or  not.  If  the 
symptoms  above  mentioned  are  not  present,  it  is  best  to 
withhold  judgment  till  a  careful  examination  is  made  by  a 
competent  physician  to  determine  the  true  state  of  affairs. 

Treatment. —  In  all  cases  of  the  non-appearance  of  the 
menses,  the  girl  should  take  abundant  exercise  in  the  open 
air,  the  diet  should  be  nutritious  but  plain  and  non-stimu- 
lating, a  daily  sponge  bath  should  be  taken  followed  by 
brisk  friction  with  a  coarse  towel,  and  the  bowels  should 
be  kept  regular.  When  the  fullness  of  the  head  and 
headache  begin  to  come  on,  the  feet  should  be  bathed  in 
hot  water  at  bedtime,  and  a  hip  bath,  as  hot  as  can  be 
borne,  should  be  given  two  or  three  times  a  day,  and  hot- 
water  bags  should  be  applied  over  the  lower  part  of  the 
abdomen  on  going  to  bed. 

If  the  bowels  are  constipated  they  should  be  opened 
freely  with  an  ounce  of  Rochelle  salts,  citrate  of  mag- 
nesia,  or  a  dram  of  comp.  jalap  powder.     To  relieve  the 


CHLOROSIS,  OR    GREEN    SICKNESS.  1 95 

head  and  back,  and  at  the  same  time  to  relax  the  tension 
of  the  womb,  the  following  may  be  given  with  great 
benefit:  Tincture  of  gelsemium  (fresh  root),  one  ounce; 
tincture  of  black  cohosh,  two  ounces;  simple  syrup, 
enough  to  make  six  ounces.  Dose  —  one  teaspoonful 
after  each  meal  and  at  bedtime.  This  treatment  will 
usually  bring  on  the  flow,  by  causing  a  relaxation  of  the 
tension  of  the  uterine  vessels. 

In  cases  where  the  flow  has  been  suppressed  after 
having  appeared,  the  hip  baths  and  hot  water  bags  must 
be  used,  and  the  above  mixture  given  at  the  time  the  flow 
should  appear.  If  it  fails  to  do  so,  some  aloes  and  iron 
pills  should  be  obtained,  and  one  should  be  taken  after 
each  meal  and  at  bedtime  till  the  time  for  the  next  period 
comes  round.  If  severe  inflammation  of  the  womb  is 
present,  it  may  be  relieved  by  frequent  injections  of  warm 
water  into  the  vagina,  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  carbolic 
acid  is  dissolved  in  a  quart  of  water.  If  this  fails,  a  phy- 
sician should  be  consulted. 

CHLOROSIS,  OR  GREEN  SICKNESS. 

Chlorosis,  or  green  sickness,  is  a  disorder  of  the  gen- 
eral health,  marked  by  languor,  extreme  debility  and  dis- 
ordered stomach.  It  is  generally  considered  a  disease  of 
the  blood,  in  which  there  is  a  deficiency  of  iron  and  the 
red  corpuscles.  The  skin  is  of  a  yellowish  or  dirty  cream 
color,  which  fact  gives  the  disease  its  name.  It  most  fre- 
quently occurs  at  puberty,  and,  when  it  does,  the  men- 
strual flow  is  scanty,  painful  and  irregular,  or  entirely  ab- 
sent. It  may  also  occur  later  in  life,  when  it  is  usually 
preceded  by  profuse  menstruation  and  leucorrhcea.  It  is 
characteristically  a  disease  caused  by  imperfect  nutrition, 


196  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and,  when  once  developed,  it  is  liable  to  give  rise  to   St. 
Vitus'  dance  and  other  serious  complications. 

The  symptoms  of  chlorosis  are  great  languor,  dislike 
of  exercise,  fatigue  on  the  slightest  exertion,  melancholy, 
love  of  solitude,  disposition  to  weep  without  cause,  im- 
paired or  perverted  appetite,  coated  tongue,  constipated 
bowels,  flatulence,  offensive  breath,  palpitation  of  the 
heart,  quick,  weak  pulse,  frequent  headache,  and  all  the 
symptoms  of  indigestion.  As  the  disease  advances,  the 
muscles  become  soft  and  flabby;  the  lips,  gums  and  inside 
of  mouth  become  pale  and  bloodless;  and  the  skin  takes 
on  the  characteristic  greenish-yellow  hue.  The  menses 
have  not  appeared,  or  are  very  scant  at  first,  and  then 
become  entirely  suppressed.  A  slight  cough  is  often 
present,  even  when  there  is  no  indication  of  lung  trouble. 
The  tissues  waste  rapidly,  and  it  seems  that  death  is 
inevitable. 

Treatment. — The  objects  of  treatment  in  chlorosis  are 
to  correct  any  disorder  of  the  stomach,  and  remove  any 
other  disease  that  maybe  recognized;  to  restore  the  blood 
to  a  normal  condition  by  proper  diet,  exercise,  bathing, 
and  the  use  of  iron  and  vegetable  tonics;  and  to  stimulate 
the  womb  and  ovaries  to  healthy  action.  Constipation 
should  be  overcome  by  taking  one  compound  podophyllin 
pill  every  night  till  the  bowels  move  freely  every  day  ;  all 
articles  containing  starch  or  sugar  should  be  excluded 
from  the  diet,  and  beef  and  mutton  in  various  forms,  with 
milk  and  eggs,  should  be  given  freely,  and,  to  aid  digestion, 
one  teaspoonful  of  elixir  pepsin,  bismuth  and  strychnine 
should  be  given  immediately  after  each  meal.  Fluid 
hydrastis  may  be  given  in  ten-drop  doses  in  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  water,  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  before  each  meal. 


DYSMENORRHEA,  OR   PAINFUL   MENSTRUATION.       I97 

This  will  be  found  a  valuable  stomach  tonic,  which  soon 
creates  a  normal  appetite  and  aids  digestion.  As  soon 
as  the  stomach  begins  to  perform  its  work  properly  the 
blood  may  be  enriched  by  giving  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
dialyzed  iron  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  an  hour  after 
each  meal. 

After  the  general  health  begins  to  improve,  the 
uterine  function  may  be  stimulated  by  twenty  drop  doses 
of  tincture  of  black  cohosh  before  each  meal,  and  an 
aloes  and  iron  pill  an  hour  after  each  meal. 

There  are,  however,  so  many  serious  complications 
met  within  this  disease,  that  it  is  never  well  to  depend  on 
home  treatment.  An  experienced  physician  should 
always  be  consulted,  and  the  treatment  carefully  carried 
out  under  his  directions.  In  this  way,  and  by  careful 
attention  to  proper  hygienic  surroundings  as  fresh  air, 
sunlight,  moderate  exercise,  cheerful  company,  and 
wholesome,  nutritious  food,  all  cases  of  chlorosis  can  be 
radically  cured. 

DYSMENORRHEA,  OR   PAINFUL    MENSTRUATION. 

As  previously  stated,  normal  menstruation  should 
not  be  attended  by  pain,  languor  or  inconvenience  of  any 
kind;  in  many  women  the  flow  is  so  often  preceded  or 
accompanied  by,  pains  in  the  back,  lower  part  of  the 
abdomen  and  limbs,  that  it  is  believed  that  such  pains 
are  natural  to  menstruation.  Such  pains,  though  unnatural, 
are  usually  slight  and  of  short  duration,  and  are  not  con- 
sidered as  painful  menstruation. 

When  the  pain  lasts  during  the  continuance  of  the 
flow,  and  causes  intense  suffering,  we  have  a  diseased  con- 
dition which  is  called  dysmenorrhea,  or  painful  menstrua- 


198  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

tion.  Ph3^"sicians  have  recognized  three  distinct  forms  of 
this  disease,  which  are  described  as  mechanical,  congestive 
and  neuralgic  dysmenorrhcea. 

Mechanical  dysmenorrhcea  is  caused  by  a  stricture  or 
undue  narrowness  of  the  canal  leading  from  the  cavity 
through  the  neck  of  the  womb.  In  these  cases  the  men- 
strual blood  accumulates  in  the  cavity  of  the  womb  faster 
than  it  can  pass  out  of  this  constricted  canal,  and  hence 
nature  attempts  to  force  the  blood  out  by  uterine  contrac- 
tion, thus  causing  pain  similar  to  that  of  childbirth,  which 
continues  till  all  the  blood  is  forced  out  of  the  womb. 

In  congestive  dysmenorrhcea,  the  mucous  membrane 
lining,  the  canal  and  cavity  of  the  womb,  becomes  so  filled 
with  blood  that  the  diameter  of  the  canal  is  encroached 
upon  andtemporarily  obstructed.  This  prevents  the  blood 
from  escaping  in  the  same  manner  as  the  stricture  does, 
and  the  contractions  of  the  womb  again  cause  the  pain, 
which  continues  till  all  the  blood  escapes.  If  the  conges- 
tion continues  for  some  time,  and  finally  ends  in  inflamma- 
tion, long  shreds  of  membrane  are  thrown  off  from  the 
cavity  of  the  womb,  and  the  passage  of  these  causes  still 
more  severe  pain  than  the  other  forms  of  the  disease. 
When  inflammation  is  present  the  patient  suffers  consider- 
ble  pain  during  the  interval  between  the  menstrual 
periods. 

Neuralgic  dysmenorrhcea  is  recognized  by  sharp, 
darting,  cutting  pains,  starting  in  the  region  of  the 
womb,  and  extending  to  the  ovaries,  back  and  thighs,  and 
in  some  cases  similar  pains  are  felt  in  the  breasts.  These 
pains  occur  at  intervals  for  three  or  four  days  preceding 
the  appearance  of  the  menses.  During  the  flow  there 
may  be  no  pain  part  of  the  time,  and    then  severe  ex- 


DYSMENORRHEA,  OR    PAINFUL   MENSTRUATION.      1 99 

pulsive  pains,  resembling  labor  pains,  will  come  on  at 
intervals  of  a  few  minutes  apart.  The  flow  is  very  scant 
at  first,  but  gradually  becomes  free  as  the  pain  par- 
tially or  entirely  ceases.  This  form  of  the  disorder  may 
result  from  cold,  and  only  occur  at  one  period,  or  it 
may  become  habitual,  being  very  mild  during  some 
periods,  and  greatly  aggravated  at  others. 

No  woman  requires  to  be  told  that  she  has  painful 
menstruation,  but,  with  the  exception  of  the  neuralgic 
variety,  she  cannot  tell  what  variety  she  suffers  from;  and, 
as  the  treatment  depends  on  an  accurate  knowledge  of 
the  condition  of  the  womb,  the  physician  should  make 
an  examination  before  commencing  treatment. 

It  will  be  found  that  mechanical  dysmenorrhcea  is 
most  common  among  maidens  who  have  just  begun  to 
menstruate,  and  who  have  suffered  from  the  first  period. 
Yet  cases  are  also  found  later  in  life,  especially  among 
women  whose  wombs  have  been  injured  by  different 
labors  or  criminal  abortion.  Young  girls  may  also  suffer 
from  the  congestive  form,  but  this  and  the  inflammatory 
conditions  are  more  commonly  met  with  among  married 
women.  The  neuralgic  variety  may  occur  at  any  period 
of  life,  but  is  most  commonly  met  with  among  unmarried 
women  about  the  age  of  thirty. 

Treatment. —  Mechanical  dysmenorrhcea  must  be 
treated  by  mechanical  means.  Cutting  the  canal  through 
the  neck  of  the  womb  to  make  it  larger  is  practiced  by 
many  specialists,  but  is  mentioned  here  only  to  be  con- 
demned as  a  general  practice.  In  some  cases  the  mouth 
of  the  womb  is  almost  occluded,  and  here  the  cutting  is 
necessary.  Dilatation  by  sponge  and  sea-tangle  tents  is 
also  resorted  to  for  the   purpose  of  enlarging   the  canal, 


200  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

and,  when  no  other  means  are  at  hand,  it  may  answer  the 
purpose,  though  it  is  painful  and  often  tedious.  By  the 
use  of  modern  instruments  for  dilatation,  by  skillful  hands 
all  mechanical  obstructions  can  be  removed  so  that  the 
menses  will  come  and  go  without  pain  or  suffering  of  any 
kind. 

The  pain  of  congestive  and  inflammatory  dysmen- 
orrhcea  is  best  relieved  during  the  period  by  the  free  use 
of  hot  hip-baths  and  the  administration  of  the  following: 
Tincture  of  gelsemium  (from  fresh  root)  one-half  ounce; 
tincture  skunk  cabbage  (fresh  root),  one  ounce;  viburnum 
compound  (Hayden's),  enough  to  make  six  ounces.  Mix, 
and  take  one  teaspoonful  in  one-third  goblet  of  boiling 
water  every  half-hour  till  relieved.  During  the  interim 
between  the  periods  the  congestion  or  inflammation  should 
be  cured  by  proper  local  treatment. 

Neuralgic  dysmenorrhea  may  be  relieved  by  the 
mixture  above  recommended,  and  it  should  be  given  in 
the  same  way.  Where  the  disease  is  habitual,  greatbene- 
flt  is  derived  by  continuing  to  take  one  dose  of  the  same 
mixture  after  each  meal  and  at  bedtime  during  the 
interim  between  the  periods.  Unmarried  women  over 
twenty-five  who  suffer  from  this  form  of  dysmenorrhea 
will  almost  invariably  find  permanent  relief  from  marriage, 
the  reason  for  which  will  be  given  in  a  subsequent  chap- 
ter. 

MENORRHAGIA,    OR   PROFUSE    MENSTRUATION. 

The  term  menorrhagia  means  an  increase  in  the  men- 
strual flow,  a  condition  which  is  commonly  called  profuse 
menstruation.  This  may  occur  at  any  period  of  life,  in  the 
full-blooded  and  robust,   or    in    the    feeble    and    delicate. 


CHANGE   OF   LIFE.  201 

Some  women  always  have  a  profuse  menstrual  flow,  and 
yet  appear  to  be  in  good  health,  but,  as  a  rule,  such  a  flow 
indicates  either  an  excessive  quantity  of  blood  in  the  sys- 
tem, or  a  general  weakness  which  permits  almost  an 
actual  hemorrhage  from  the  womb. 

In  some  cases  the  menstrual  flow  occurs  every  two  or 
three  weeks,  or  even  oftener,  and  again  the  periods  may 
occur  regularly,  but  the  quantity  of  blood  lost  is  very 
excessive.  In  some  cases  the  discharge  is  normal  men- 
strual blood,  while  in  others  it  seems  like  a  hemorrhage 
from  the  uterine  blood-vessels.  In  these  last-mentioned 
cases  the  blood  coagulates,  or  clots,  in  the  womb,  as  well 
as  in  the  vagina,  and  after  it  has  escaped  from  that  canal. 

The  usual  symptoms  of  menorrhagia:  General  debility, 
paleness  of  face,  cold  feet  and  hands,  severe  pain  in  lower 
part  of  the  back  and  abdomen,  severe  headache  at  times, 
and  derangement  of  the  stomach.  It  may  be  caused  by 
cold,  severe  exertion,  mental  emotions,  excessive  sexual 
indulgence,  severe  child-birth,  and  abortion.  Aside  from 
the  general  condition  of  the  system,  the  uterus  is  almost 
always  in  an  unhealthy  condition  when  profuse  menstru- 
ation occurs,  and  it  is  therefore  important  that  proper 
medical  skill  should  be  employed  at  the  earliest  possible 
moment.  During  the  profuse  flow  the  patient  should  keep 
quiet,  and  avoid  all  undue  exertion,  and  if  the  case  is 
severe  she  should  remain  in  bed  till  the  flow  stops.  As 
soon  as  it  does  so,  the  general  and  local  treatment  should 
be  commenced,  and  continued  through  the  interum. 

CHANGE    OF    LIFE. 

The  ovarian  and  uterine  functions  continue  operative 
for  a  period  of  thirty  or  thirty-two  years,  after  which  there 


0 
202  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

is  a  cessation  of  the  menstrual  flow.  This  indicates  a  ces- 
sation of  ovulation,  after  which  a  woman  is  incapable  of 
bearing  children. 

This  climacteric  period  is  called  the  menopause,  or 
"  change  of  life,"  during  which  women  have  been  taught 
to  expect  that  they  must  of  necessity  be  invalids,  and  that 
it  is  a  critical  period  through  which  they  cannot  pass 
without  great  suffering,  and  danger  to  life  and  reason. 
This  is  a  great  mistake,  and  every  effort  should  be  made 
to  make  women  understand  that  the  ailments  incident  to 
this  period  are  due  to  some  previous  disorder  of  the 
uterus  or  ovaries,  or  to  some  other  diseased  condition  of 
the  body. 

In  healthy  women  the  menses  cease  for  good  with 
no  more  inconvenience  or  suffering  than  attends  the  ces- 
sation of  each  monthy  flow,  and  it  is  absurd  to  suppose 
that  every  woman  must  be  an  invalid  for  three  or  four  of 
the  best  years  of  her  life. 

About  the  forty-fifth  year  of  age  the  menses  begin  to 
be  irregular,  and  after  a  few  months  cease  entirely.  In 
tropical  climates  the  cessation  maybe  several  years  earlier, 
while  some  women  reach  the  menopause  much  earlier 
than  others,  even  in  the  same  latitudes.  On  the  other 
hand,  many  women  menstruate  regularly  till  their  forty- 
eighth  or  fiftieth  year. 

Among  those  who  suffer  at  the  "  change  of  life," 
hot  flashes  is  the  most  common  symptom.  This  is  first 
felt  as  a  sudden  heat  of  the  body,  which  usually  rushes  to 
the  head  and  face,  sometimes  causing  dizziness.  This 
feeling  is  often  followed  by  a  perspiration,  and  then  a 
sensation  of  chilliness.  Sometimes  a  chill  precedes  the  hot 
flashes. 


CHANGE    OF    LIFE.  203 

Profuse  hemorrhage  often  sets  in  after  the  menses  have 
been  absent  for  several  months,  or  it  may  occur  every 
month  for  a  long  time  before  the  final  cessation. 

Loss  of  memory,  and  other  mental  symptoms,  are 
often  met  with,  and  for  a  time  occasion  great  anxiety. 

Indigestion,  constipation,  eruptions  on  the  skin,  and 
sleeplessness  are  also  among  the  conditions  met  with. 

Treatment. —  It  is  of  the  first  importance  to  impress 
upon  women  approaching  the  menopause,  that  the  change 
is  a  natural  one,  and  that  they  should  not  suffer  from  the 
disorders  they  have  been  taught  to  believe  to  be  insepara- 
ble from  this  period  of  life.  Out-door  exercise  should  be 
insisted  on,  and  also  the  proper  ventilation  of  the  sleeping 
apartment.  Constipation  should  be  overcome,  and  atten- 
tion should  be  paid  to  the  condition  of  the  stomach.  To 
relieve  the  hot  flashes  and  dizziness,  ten  drops  of  fluid 
extract  of  ergot,  three  or  four  times  a  day,  will  be  found 
of  great  value,  after  the  bowels  have  been  moved  freely. 
Those  who  prefer  it  can  take  a  one-grain  ergotin  pill  after 
each  meal  and  at  bedtime.  Should  this  symptom  con- 
tinue, or  hemorrhage  occur,  or  loss  of  memory  or  other 
nervous  symptom  supervene,  the  family  physician  should 
be  consulted.  He  will  certainly  find  some  cause  for  these 
disorders  other  than  the  simple  functional  change,  and, 
having  found  them,  can  usually  relieve  the  sufferer  in  a 
short  time,  and  thus  disabuse  her  mind  of  the  idea  that  the 
tyranny  of  her  organization  makes  her  an  invalid  at  this 
period  of  her  life. 


CHAPTER   IV. 

WOMANHOOD    AND    WIFEHOOD. 
Courtship  —  Marriage  —  Celibacy —  Sterility. 

At  the  age  of  twenty-one  or  twenty-two  the  maiden 
who  has  improved  her  opportunities  for  mental  and  phys- 
ical development  should  be  prepared  to  enter  upon  the 
serious  duties  of  life.  Under  a  rational  system  of  educa- 
tion, however,  she  will  not  consider  that  marriage  is  the 
only  avenue  open  to  her.  She  should  be  prepared  to 
enter  upon  such  vocation  as  her  ability  and  inclination 
qualify  her  .to  fill,  and  she  should  pursue  her  calling  with 
the  expectation  that  she  has  to  win  her  own  way  through 
life.  It  is  only  in  this  way  that  perfect  womanhood  can  be 
developed;  and,  when  women  come  to  realize  the  value  of 
independence,  they  will  learn  how  much  their  sex  will 
gain  in  everything  that  makes  life  worth  living,  over  their 
sisters  who,  in  the  past,  have  been  taught  to  believe  that 
every  woman's  aim  in  life  was  "  to  get  a  husband. " 

The  time  has  come  when  woman  should  not  be 
dependent  on  man  for  protection  and  support;  but,  pos- 
sessed of  a  healthy  physical  and  mental  organization,  she 
should  stand  by  his  side  as  an  equal  in  the  fullest  sense  of 
the  term.  Every  road  to  distinction  should  be  open  to 
her,  and  she  should  be  eligible  to  any  position  in  life  she 
is  qualified  to  fill.  There  should  be  no  such  thing  as 
man's  rights,  or  woman's  rights,  but  equal  rights  should 
be  everywhere  recognized  as  the  only  true  principle  for 
the  government  of  the  world.     What  is  right  for  man  to 


WOMANHOOD    AND    WIFEHOOD.  205 

do  should  be  right  for  woman,  and  what  is  wrong  for 
woman  to  do  should  be  equally  wrong  for  man  to  do. 
Woman  should  be  recognized  as  a  rational,  thinking  being. 
She  should  neither  be  a  toy,  a  slave,  nor  a  shrined  god- 
dess, around  whose  altar  the  idle  drones  of  society  are 
expected  to  worship;  but  a  companion,  a  friend,  a  help- 
mate and  a  safe  adviser  to  man.  There  should  be  no 
rivalry  between  the  sexes,  for  there  is  plenty  of  room  for 
both.  Under  such  a  system  all  women  would  not  aim  to 
be  lawyers  and  doctors,  any  more  than  all  men  do  now; 
but  men  and  women  would  still  be  found  for  every  posi- 
tion of  life,  and  labor  of  every  kind  should  be  paid  for  in 
proportion  as  it  is  well  or  poorly  done,  without  regard  to 
the  sex  of  the  operator. 

Every  true  woman  should  have  an  aim  in  life,  and 
this  would  enable  her  to  meet  man  on  a  social  and  intel- 
lectual plane,  where  true  and  noble  friendships  could 
exist  between  the  sexes  without  fear  of  the  imputation  of 
wrongdoing  from  slanderous  tongues;  and  every  human 
form  would  bear  the  stamp  of  that  nobility  that  comes 
from  earnest,  honest  toil.  In  such  a  life,  men  and  women 
would  have  abundant  opportunity  of  studying  each  other, 
and  similar  qualities  of  mind  would  gravitate  together, 
and  culminate  in  that  true  marriage  described  by  Theodore 
Parker  as  "  a  continually  falling  in  love." 

All  this  would  not  unsex  woman,  nor  rob  her  of  a 
single  womanly  charm.  On  the  contrary,  health,  educa- 
tion and  equality  would  add  to  her  charms  and  graces  a 
hundred  fold.  While  she  would  win  preferment,  and 
retain  it,  for  her  ability  alone,  she  would  still  be  loved  and 
cherished  as  a  mother,  sister  and  wife;  and  she  in  her  turn 


206  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

would  love  a  father,  brother,  or  husband  with  all  the 
ardor  of  her  being. 

Independent  womanhood  is  the  first  step  toward 
breaking  the  yoke  that  has  so  long  degraded  the  weaker 
sex,  and  entailed  so  much  misery,  disease  and  premature 
death  upon  mankind.  It  saves  woman  from  loveless 
marriages,  from  legalized  prostitution  and  from  unwel- 
come motherhood,  and  it  must  eventually  redeem  the  race 
from  all  the  follies  and  crime  that  beset  our  generation. 

Our  present  social  condition,  in  by  far  the  majority 
of  cases,  robs  woman  of  her  womanhood,  denies  her  the 
realization  of  her  bright  dreams  of  the  happiness  of  wedded 
life,  fades  the  bloom  of  youth  and  the  smile  of  gladness 
from  her  face,  makes  her  old  before  her  time,  and  con- 
signs her  to  a  life  of  neglect  and  drudgery,  if  not  to  an 
invalid's  bed,  long  before  she  has  reached  her  prime.  The 
causes  that  lead  to  such  conditions  are  ignorance,  unbridled 
passion,  cupidity  and  bigotry;  and,  if  we  would  bring 
about  reform,  we  must  fearlessly  expose  existing  evils,  and 
if  possible  point  out  the  better  way. 

COURTSHIP. 

It  may  seem  strange  to  some  that  the  subject  of  court- 
ship should  be  referred  to  in  a  work  such  as  this,  and  yet 
the  careful  reader  will  find  that  it  has  an  important  bearing 
on  the  health  and  general  well  being  of  women. 

The  saddest  conditions  are  apparent,  at  the  present 
day,  in  so-called  fashionable  society,  where  parents  force 
their  daughters  to  use  all  their  arts  to  catch  desirable 
husbands,  long  before  they  are  capable  of  understanding 
the  duties  of  womanhood.  With  nothing  else  to  occupy 
their  minds,  these  ignorant  children,  for  they  are  nothing 


COURTSHIP.  207 

more,  rush  headlong  into  the  frivolities  of  the  hour,  and 
are  ready  to  fall  in  love  with  the  first  man  of  supposed 
wealth  who  speaks  to  them  pleasantly.  They  dance,  take 
long  evening  walks,  and  submit  to  flattery  and  petting 
every  night  for  a  season,  and  then  find  themselves  engaged 
to  some  one  they  know  nothing  of,  or  awake  to  realize  that 
they  were  the  victims  of  a  summer  flirtation.  In  either 
case  they  are  worn  out  physically,  and  find  themselves 
complaining  of  headache,  palpitation  of  the  heart,  back- 
ache, nervous  irritability,  and  often  pronounced  hysteria. 
In  one  case  preparations  for  the  wedding  are  begun,  and 
the  little  remaining  energy  is  exhausted  by  the  never- 
ending  shopping  excursions  and  visits  to  the  dressmaker 
and  milliner,  while  the  hours  between  evening  and  midnight 
are  again  spent  in  company  with  the  aforesaid  prospective 
husband;  and  before  the  marriage  day  arrives  the  bride  is 
more  fitted  for  a  hospital  than  the  bridal  home.  In 
the  other  case  the  victim  of  the  flirtation  feels  that  she 
has  lost  an  opportunity,  and  at  once  sets  to  work  to  find 
another. 

Under  a  rational  system  of  education,  girls  would 
find  enough  to  occupy  their  minds  in  their  studies  and  the 
prosecution  of  such  duties  as  would  fit  them  for  useful 
positions  in  life.  When  they  had  developed  into  perfect 
women,  both  mentally  and  physically,  in  constant  associa- 
tion with  their  brothers  from  their  earliest  childhood,  true 
love  would  spring  up  between  men  and  women  as  the 
natural  outcome  of  our  social  natures,  and  the  unhappy 
marriages,  disappointments,  misery  and  subsequent 
divorces  now  so  common  would  be  unknown. 

I  do  not  wish  to  be  understood  as  being  opposed  to 
love,  but  I  do  protest  against  the  physical  and  selfish  mani- 


208  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

festations  of  love  which  are  usually  exhibited  during 
courtship  and  after  marriage.  Perfect  love  should  be  an 
intellectual  and  moral  attraction.  A  couple  who  begin  a 
courtship  should  differ  in  temperament  sufficiently  to  show 
a  contrast  of  complexion  and  bodily  activity,  and  a  suffi- 
cient difference  in  mental  inclinations  to  stimulate  interest 
without  direct  antagonism.  Persons  of  like  complexion, 
like  inclinations,  like  habits,  and  like  tastes,  are  sure  to  tire 
of  each  other,  and  hence  courtship  in  such  cases  should 
be  avoided.  When  personal  beauty  or  passionate  desire 
leads  to  courtship,  love  dies  on  the  threshold  of  marriage, 
and  health  and  beauty  fade  from  the  woman's  face  ;  and, 
when  wealth  or  social  position  are  the  chief  factors,  self- 
abasement  and  unending  regret  are  added  to  the  burdens 
to  be  borne. 

Women  should  ever  bear  in  mind  that  the  period  of 
courtship  has  more  to  do  with  their  future  than  marriage. 
It  is  here  that  the  pros  and  cons  should  be  weighed;  that 
the  heart  should  be  questioned  as  to  the  true  nature  of  the 
feelings  that  are  filling  their  breasts;  that  they  should 
know  if  there  lurks  within  them  a  single  wish  for  some- 
thing more  in  the  men  who  would  woo  them;  for,  when 
the  marriage  vow  is  spoken,  it  is  too  late  to  discover  the 
mistakes  that  are  so  often  made,  and  they  must  bear  all 
the  suffering  and  sorrow  that  come  to  women  who  have 
made  loveless  marriages. 

MARRIAGE. 

Marriage  is  the  basis  of  our  social  structure,  as  well 
as  a  compliance  with  the  laws  of  nature;  and,  in  spite  of 
all  the  discord  and  misery  growing  out  of  ill-assorted  mar- 
riages, it  cannot  truthfully  be  said  to  be  a  failure.     With 


MARRIAGE.  209 

love  and  adaptability  as  a  foundation,  marriage  promotes 
happiness,  stimulates  a  desire  for  mutual  improvement  of 
the  contracting  parties,  and  adds  numerous  blessings  to 
future  generations  by  giving  to  the  world  offspring  with 
perfect  mental  and  physical  development.  When  other 
and  baser  motives  prompt  to  it,  discontent,  heart-aches 
and  misery  are  sure  to  follow.  A  late  writer  on  this 
subject  places  before  his  readers  some  plain  truths  in  the 
following  brief  paragraph: 

"  '  Straight  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,'  that 
leads  to  a  true  marriage.  Selfish  motives,  that  so  easily 
obtain  supreme  control  in  the  heart,  lead  to  ill-assorted, 
wretched  marriages.  To  marry  for  money,  to  marry  for 
position,  to  marry  that  you  may  not  '  turn  brown  and  be 
an  old  maid,'  is  to  marry  in  the  spirit  of  selfishness,  ruin- 
ous selfishness,  and  not  for  love's  sake. 

"  '  Hasn't  every  woman  a  right  to  look  out  for  her- 
self ?'  indignantly  asks  one  of  the  fair.  Yes;  but,  when 
you  begin  to  talk  about  looking  out  for  yourself,  you 
venture  on  dangerous  ground.  You  should  remember 
that  your  married  life  may  call  you  to  self-sacrifice,  not  to 
self-indulgence.  The  constantly  turning  wheel  of  fortune 
may  bring  poverty  and  sickness,  and,  if  you  have  not  love 
enough  for  a  man  to  go  through  fire  and  flood  for  his  sake, 
you  had  better  never  marry  him.  If  you  marry  for  any- 
thing but  love,  you  marry  for  what  may  perish  in  a 
night.  #  #  #  There  are  two  lines,  often  sung, 
and  said  to  be  sacred,  but  we  think  they  are  not: 

"  There  is  no  union  here  of  hearts, 
That  finds  not  here  an  end." 

"  No,  a  true  union  of  hearts  not  even   death  can  end, 
and  may  your  marriage,  my  fair  friend,  be  a  true  union  of 
14 


2IO  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

hearts,  a  true  marriage,  such  as  will  be  yours  not  only 
through  life  here,  but  in  the  life  beyond,  where  souls 
rejoice  forever  in  a  perfect  union." 

Because  a  couple  may  be  unhappy  in  their  married 
life,  it  does  not  follow  that  one  is  to  blame  more  than  the 
other,  or  that  either  has  an  unamiable  disposition.  Each 
may  be  capable  of  loving  and  making  some  one  else  happy, 
but  they  have  made  a  mistake.  An  incompatibility  in 
the  marriage  relation  exists,  they  do  not  harmonize,  they 
antagonize  each  other,  and  unhappiness  and  misery  must 
result.  The  world  is  full  of  such  mismated  couples,  and 
they  are  sure  that  "  marriage  is  a  failure." 

Can  these  unhappy  marriages  be  prevented?  We 
answer,  yes!  Let  us  broaden  our  methods  of  education 
by  educating  the  sexes  together,  and  let  adaptability  be 
the  basis  of  all  courtship,  and  marriage  will  soon  be  freed 
from  the  misery  and  sorrow  it  now  so  often  entails.  A 
knowledge  of  the  temperaments  and  the  law  of  conjugal 
selection  should  be  acquired  by  all  who  contemplate  mar- 
riage, and,  with  this  as  a  guide,  it  will  be  found  that  true 
and  lasting  love  will  surely  take  root  in  its  own  proper  soil. 

The  late  S.  R.  Wells*  gives  a  brief  description  of  the 
temperaments,  and  the  law  of  conjugal  selection,  which 
we  cannot  do  better  than  reproduce  here. 

"  Prominent  among  the  conditions  affecting  the  hap- 
piness of  married  couples  is  temperament ;  and  this  is  one 
of  the  first  things  to  be  considered  by  those  contemplating 
matrimony.  To  enable  the  reader  to  fully  understand 
our  teachings  on  this  point,  we  here  give  a  brief  descrip- 
tion of  the  three  primary  temperaments. 

*  "Wedlock;  or,  the  Right  Relation  of  the  Sexes."  By  S.  R.  Wells. 
New  York:  Fowler  &  Wells  Co.      1888. 


MARRIAGE.  211 

"  Temperament  is  a  particular  state  of  the  constitu- 
tion, depending  upon  the  relative  proportion  of  its  differ- 
ent masses  or  systems  of  organs.  We  are  accustomed  to 
consider  these  constitutional  conditions  as  primarily  three 
in  number,  called,  respectively,  the  motive  temperament, 
the  vital  temperament,  and  the  mental  temperament. 

"  The  first  is  marked  by  a  superior  development  of 
the  osseous  and  muscular  systems,  forming  the  locomotive 
apparatus;  in  the  second,  the  vital  organs,  the  principal 
seat  of  which  is  in  the  trunk,  give  the  tone  to  the  organ- 
ization; while  in  the  third,  the  brain  and  nervous  system 
exert  the  controlling  power. 

I.  "  The  Motive  Temperament. — In  this  temperament 
the  bones  are  comparatively  large  and  broad  rather  than 
long,  and  the  muscles  only  moderately  full,  but  dense, 
firm,  and  tough.  The  figure  is  generally  tall,  the  face 
long,  the  cheek  bones  rather  high,  the  neck  long,  the 
shoulders  broad,  and  the  chest  moderately  full.  The 
complexion  and  eyes  are  generally,  but  not  always,  dark, 
and  the  hair  dark,  strong  and  rather  abundant.  The 
features  are  strongly  marked,  and  the  expression  striking, 
and  sometimes  harsh  or  rigid.  The  whole  system  is  char- 
acterized by  strength  and  capacity  for  endurance,  as  well 
as  for  active  labor.  Persons  in  whom  it  predominates 
possess  great  energy  and  perseverance,  and,  in  other 
respects,  are  strongly  marked  characters.  They  are  ob- 
servers rather  than  thinkers,  and  are  better  suited  to  the 
field  than  to  the  council  chamber.  They  are  firm,  self- 
reliant,  constant  in  love  and  in  friendship,  fond  of  power, 
ambitious,  and  sometimes  stern  and  severe.  This  temper- 
ament in   its  typical  form  is  not  common  among  women, 


212  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

in  whom  it  is  modified  by  a  large  proportion  of  the  vital 
element  of  the  constitution. 

2.  "  The  Vital  Temperament. — -The  vital  tempera- 
ment is  marked  by  breadth  and  thickness  of  body  rather 
than  by  length.  Its  prevailing  characteristic  is  rotundity. 
The  chest  is  full,  the  abdomen  well  developed,  the  limbs 
plump  and  generally  tapering,  and  the  hands  and  feet  rela- 
tively small.  The  neck  is  short  and  thick,  the  shoulders 
broad,  the  chest  full,  and  the  head  and  face  inclining  to 
roundness.  The  complexion  is  generally  florid,  the  eyes 
and  hair  light,  and  the  expression  of  the  countenance 
pleasing,  and  often  mirthful. 

"  Persons  in  whom  this  temperament  predominates 
are  both  physically  and  mentally  active,  and  love  fresh  air 
and  exercise,  as  well  as  lively  conversation  and  exciting 
debate,  but  are,  in  general,  less  inclined  to  close  study  or 
hard  work  than  those  in  whom  the  motive  temperament 
takes  the  lead.  They  are  ardent,  impulsive,  versatile,  and 
sometimes  fickle;  and  possess  more  diligence  than  per- 
sistence, and  more  brilliancy  than  depth.  They  are  fre- 
quently passionate  and  violent,  but  are  as  easily  calmed 
as  excited,  and  are  cheerful,  amiable  and  genial  in  their 
general  disposition.  The  vital  temperament  is  noted  for 
large  animal  propensities  generally,  and  especially  ama- 
tiveness,  alimentiveness  and  acquisitiveness.  Benevolence, 
hope  and  mirthfulness  are  generally  well  developed. 

3.  "  The  Mental  Temperament. — This  temperament 
is  characterized  by  a  rather  slight  frame;  a  head  relatively 
large;  an  oval  or  pyriform  face;  high,  pale  forehead;  deli- 
cate and  finely  cut  features;  bright  and  expressive  eyes; 
slender  neck;  and  only  a  moderate  development  of  chest. 
The  hair  is  generally  soft  and  fine,  and  neither  abundant 


MARRIAGE.  213 

nor  very  dark;   the  skin  soft  and  fine,  and  the  expression 
of  the  face  varied  and  animated. 

"  Sensitiveness,  refinement,  taste,  love  of  the  beautiful 
in  nature  and  art,  vividness  of  conception,  and  intensity 
of  emotion  mark  this  temperament  in  its  mental  manifesta- 
tions. The  thoughts  are  quick,  the  senses  acute,  the  imag- 
ination lively,  and  the  moral  sentiments  generally  active 
and  influential. 

"Balance  of  Temperaments. —  When  either  of  the 
temperaments  exists  in  excess,  the  result  is  necessarily  a 
departure  from  symmetry  and  harmony,  both  of  body  and 
mind,  the  one  always  affecting  the  character  and  action  of 
the  other.  Perfection  of  constitution  consists  in  a  proper 
balance  of  temperaments. 

"  The  Law  of  Conjugal  Selection. —  With  regard 
to  the  proper  combinations  of  temperament  in  the  mar- 
riage relation,  physiologists  have  differed,  one  contending 
that  the  constitutions  of  the  parties  should  be  similar, 
while  others,  on  the  contrary,  have  taught  that  contrast 
should  be  sought.  It  seems  to  us  that  neither  of  these  state- 
ments expresses  fully  the  true  law  of  the  selection.  The 
end  to  be  aimed  at  is  harmony.  There  can  be  no  harmony 
without  a  difference,  but  there  may  be  a  difference  without 
harmony.  It  is  not  that  a  woman  is  like  a  man  that  he  loves 
her,  but  because  she  is  unlike.  The  qualities  which  he 
lacks  are  the  ones  in  her  which  attract  him  —  the  personal 
traits  and  mental  peculiarities  which  combine  to  make  her 
womanly;  and  in  proportion  as  she  lacks  these,  or  pos- 
sesses masculine  characteristics,  will  a  woman  repel  the 
opposite  sex.  So  a  woman  admires  in  man  true  manliness, 
and  is  repelled  by  weakness  and  effeminacy.  A  woman- 
ish man  awakens  the  pity  or  contempt  of  the  fair  sex. 


214  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

"  This  law,  we  believe,  admits  of  the  widest  applica- 
tion. The  dark-haired,  swarthy  man  is  apt  to  take  for  his 
mate  some  azure-eyed  blonde;  the  lean  and  spare  choose 
the  stout  and  plump;  the  tall  and  the  short  often  unite, 
and  plain  men  generally  win  the  fairest  of  the  fair. 

"  In  temperament,  as  in  everything  else,  what  we 
should  seek  is  not  likeness,  but  a  harmonious  difference. 
The  husband  and  wife  are  not  counterparts  of  each  other, 
but  complements  —  halves  which,  joined  together,  form  a 
rounded,  symmetrical  whole.  In  music,  contiguous  notes 
are  discordant,  but,  when  we  sound  together  a  first  and  a 
third,  or  a  third  and  a  fifth,  we  produce  a  chord.  The 
same  principle  pervades  all  nature.  Two  persons  may  be 
too  much  alike  to  agree.  They  crowd  each  other,  for  two 
objects  cannot  occupy  the  same  place  and  the  same  time. 
While,  therefore,  we  do  not  wholly  agree  with  those 
who  insist  upon  the  union  of  opposites  in  the  matter  of 
temperaments,  we  believe  that  a  close  resemblance  in 
the  constitution  of  the  body  between  the  parties  should 
be  avoided,  as  not  only  inimical  to  their  harmony 
and  happiness,  but  detrimental  to  their  offspring.  If 
the  mental  temperament,  for  instance,  be  strongly 
indicated  in  both,  their  union,  instead  of  having  a  sedative 
and  healthful  influence,  will  tend  to  intensify  the  already 
too  great  mental  activity  of  each,  and  perhaps  in  the 
end  produce  nervous  prostration,  and  their  children,  if, 
unfortunately,  any  should  result  from  the  union,  will  be 
likely  to  inherit  in  still  greater  excess  the  constitutional 
tendencies  of  the  parents.  A  correspondence  of  the  vital 
element  in  one  of  the  parties  would  tend  not  only  to  a 
greater  degree  of  harmony  and  a  more  healthful  influence, 
but   to    a    more    desirable    and    systematic   development 


MARRIAGE.  21 5 

and  complete  blending  of  desirable  qualities  in  their 
offspring. 

"  A  predominance  of  the  vital  or  of  the  motive  tem- 
perament in  both  parties,  though  perhaps  less  disastrous 
in  its  results,  favors,  in  the  same  way,  connubial  discord, 
and  a  lack  of  balance  in  offspring. 

"  When  the  temperaments  are  well  balanced  in  both, 
«the  similarity  is  less  objectionable,  and  the  union,  in  such 
case,  may  result  favorably,  both  as  respects  parents  and 
children ;  but  perfect  balance  in  all  the  elements  of  tem- 
perament is  very  rare  ;  and,  wherever  there  is  a  deficiency 
in  one  party,  it  should,  if  possible,  be  balanced  by  an 
ample  development  in  the  same  direction  in  the  other, 
and  vice  versa." 

As  a  rule  the  husband  should  be  four  or  five  years 
older  than  the  wife.  In  many  cases  the  difference  may 
be  much  greater,  and  yet  the  marriage  be  a  happy  one. 
Fifteen  years  should,  however,  be  the  limit  of  the  differ- 
ence. In  spite  of  all  that  may  be  said  to  the  contrary, 
the  marriage  of  a  young  girl  to  a  man  old  enough  to  be 
her  father,  is  always  a  failure.  It  is  an  unnatural  alliance, 
and  it  is  unreasonable  to  expect  that  there  should  be  any 
love  on  the  part  of  the  wife.  It  is  simply  a  sale  of  her 
person  for  a  home  or  some  other  consideration,  which 
cannot  but  destroy  her  health  and  mar  her  whole  life. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  wife  should  not  be  older  than  the 
husband.  Though  there  are  many  instances  where  such 
marriages  proved  exceptionally  happy,  yet  as  a  rule  the 
time  comes  when  such  a  difference  causes  trouble. 

Early  marriages  are  rarely  conducive  to  happiness. 
Young  men  and  women  should  have  some  experience  with 
the  world,  as  well  as  such  mental  and  physical  development 


2l6  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

as  will  fit  them  for  the  serious  duties  of  matrimony  before 
entering  upon  it.  A  man  should  not  marry  till  the  age  of 
twenty-four  or  twenty-five,  and  a  woman  should  be  at 
least  twenty-one  years  old.  It  is  not  true  that  early  mar- 
riages protect  against  vice.  The  unmarried,  when  properly 
employed  before  the  ages  just  given,  are  not  so  apt  to 
become  passionately  aroused,  as  is  generally  claimed, 
while  the  marital  excesses  following  early  marriages  often 
sow  the  seeds  of  ill  health  in  both  husband  and  wife, 
and  bring  forth  offspring  with  deficient  vitality.  Dr.  Dio 
Lewis  writes  as  follows:  "  I  have  recently  read  a  very 
interesting  book,  published  in  England,  in  which  it  was 
shown,  that,  of  the  fifty  most  remarkable  men  in  the  his- 
tory of  that  country,  a  great  majority  were  born  of  mothers 
nearly  or  quite  forty  years  old.  When  it  is  remembered 
that  a  very  large  portion  of  the  children  born  in  England 
come  from  young  mothers,  this  testimony  is  all  the  more 
significant." 

Cousins  often  marry  without  bad  results  to  themselves 
or  their  offspring,  but  it  is  universally  conceded  that  it 
is  better  for  relatives  not  to  marry. 

On  this  subject  George  Combe,  in  his  "  Constitution 
of  Man,"  writes  as  follows:  "  Marriage  between  blood 
relations  tends  most  decidedly  to  the  deterioration  of  the 
physical  and  mental  qualities  of  the  offspring.  In  Spain, 
kings  marry  their  nieces;  and  in  England,  first  and  second 
cousins  marry  without  scruple,  although  every  philosoph- 
ical physiologist  will  declare  that  it  is  in  direct  opposition 
to  the  institutions  of  nature. 

"  If  the  first  individuals  connected  in  near  relationship, 
who  unite  in  marriage,  are  uncommonly  robust,  and  pos- 
sess very  favorably  developed  brains,  their  offspring  may 


MARRIAGE.  21 7 

not  be  so  much  deteriorated  below  the  common  standard 
of  the  country  as  to  attract  particular  attention,  and  the 
law  of  nature  is,  in  this  instance,  supposed  not  to  hold; 
but  it  does  hold,  for  to  a  law  of  nature  there  never  is  an 
exception.  The  offspring  are  uniformly  inferior  to  what 
they  would  have  been  if  the  parents  had  united  with 
strangers  in  blood  of  equal  vigor  and  cerebral  develop- 
ment. Whenever  there  is  any  remarkable  deficiency  in 
parents  who  are  related  in  blood,  these  appear  in  the  most 
marked  and  aggravated  forms  in  the  offspring.  The  fact 
is  so  well  known  that  we  forbear  to  enlarge  upon  it." 

Prof.  Wm.  B.  Carpenter,  in  his  "  Principles  of 
Human  Physiology,"  presents  the  following  startling  facts: 
"  Out  of  359  idiots,  the  condition  of  whose  progenitors 
could  be  ascertained,  seventeen  were  known  to  have  been 
the  children  of  parents  nearly  related  by  blood,  and  this 
relationship  was  suspected  to  have  existed  in  several  other 
cases,  in  which  positive  information  could  not  be  obtained. 
On  examining  into  the  history  of  the  seventeen  families,  to 
which  these  individuals  belonged,  it  was  found  that  they  had 
consisted  in  all  of  ninety-five  children;  that  of  these  no 
fewer  than  forty-four  were  idiotic,  twelve  others  were 
scrofulous  and  puny,  one  was  deaf,  and  one  was  a  dwarf. 
In  some  of  these  families  all  the  children  were  either 
idiotic  or  very  scrofulous  and  puny;  in  one  family  of  eight 
children,  five  were  idiotic.  " 

These  opinions  are  generally  sustained  by  physiolo- 
gists, and  should  be  a  sufficient  warning  to  prevent  the  fre- 
quent occurrence   of  marriages  between  blood  relations. 

Persons  afflicted  with  incurable  diseases  should  not 
marry,  as  the  disease  is  likely  to  be  communicated  to  the 
offspring. 


21 8  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

CELIBACY. 

Health  demands  that  every  organ  of  the  body  shall 
perform  its  normal  function,  and  the  sexual  organs  are  no 
exception  to  the  rule.  Celibacy,  therefore,  is  a  crime 
against  nature,  which  cannot  be  too  severely  denounced. 
Marriage  is  in  accordance  with  the  laws  of  nature,  and 
rounds  out  and  makes  perfect  the  lives  of  both  men  and 
women.  Every  woman  in  good  health  should  marry,  no 
matter  what  her  position  in  life  may  be.  As  a  rule  "  old 
maids"  grow  old  before  their  time,  and  do  not  enjoy  as 
good  health  as  married  woman.  They  frequently  suffer 
from  congestion  of  the  womb,  leucorrhoea  and  aggravated 
hysteria,  simply  because  the  sexual  part  of  their  nature  is 
not  satisfied,  and  it  too  often  happens  that  the  cause  of 
their  ill-health  is  entirely  overlooked. 

It  is  true  that  many  of  the  brightest  and  most  intel- 
lectual women  the  world  has  ever  known  never  married; 
but  we  do  not  know  how  much  more  they  might  have 
been,  had  they  known  what  it  was  to  live  perfect  lives. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  do  know  that  thousands  have  been 
doomed  to  lives  of  sickness  and  sorrow  which  might  have 
been  averted  by  marriage.  It  is  only  in  rare  cases,  how- 
ever, that  the  sufferer  has  any  knowledge  of  the  cause  of 
her  trouble,  and  would  even  deny  the  fact  after  it  had  been 
made  clear  to  her. 

STERILITY. 

Sterility,  or  barrenness,  is  a  subject  of  great  impor- 
tance to  the  medical  profession,  as  well  as  to  a  rapidly 
increasing  number  of  women.  A  healthy  woman  should 
be  capable  of  bearing  children  during  the  whole  of  her 
menstrual  life,  which  extends  over  a  period  of  thirty  years. 


STERILITY.  219 

Yet  thousands  of  married  women  go  through  life  without 
ever  being  pregnant,  a  circumstance  which  is  usually  a 
source  of  regret  both  to  themselves  and  their  husbands. 

The  causes  of  sterility  are  numerous,  and  in  the 
majority  of  cases  they  may  be  overcome  by  proper  treat- 
ment. It  most  frequently  happens  that  the  woman  is  at 
fault,  but  this  is  not  always  the  case  by  any  means. 
Whenever  married  people  are  desirous  of  offspring,  and 
they  fail  to  come  within  a  reasonable  time,  it  is  always 
best  that  the  wife  should  consult  a  competent  physician, 
with  the  view  of  ascertaining  where  the  defect  lies. 

The  causes  of  sterility  in  woman  are  usually  so  ap- 
parent that  they  can  be  easily  recognized,  and  they  may 
be  enumerated  as  follows:  Leucorrhceal  discharges,  dis- 
placement of  the  womb,  ulceration  of  the  womb,  inflam- 
mation of  the  neck  of  the  womb,  internally  or  externally, 
undue  constriction  of  the  mouth  or  neck  of  the  womb, 
occlusion  of  the  vagina  by  some  membrane  existing  from 
birth  or  developed  by  adhesive  inflammation,  and  injuries 
resulting  from  previous  criminal  abortion.  If  any  of 
these  conditions  be  found,  proper  treatment  should  be 
begun  at  once,  as  they  can  all  be  overcome.  If,  how- 
ever, the  menstrual  function  is  normal,  and  there  is  no 
appearance  of  leucorrhcea,  no  pain  in  the  back  and  loins, 
or  dragging  sensation  around  the  hips  and  lower  part  of 
the  abdomen  that  would  suggest  displacement  of  the 
womb,  and  the  marriage  is  a  happy  one,  it  maybe  inferred 
that  the  fault  is  not  with  the  woman.  In  such  cases  the 
husband  should  consult  a  physician,  and  ascertain  if  any 
lack  of  vitality  exists  that  would  render  him  sterile. 

In  some  cases  intercourse  is  impossible,  oris  attended 
with  great  pain    to  the   woman.      This   is   due  to   a  great 


220  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

thickening  of  the  hymen,  or  the  fragments  of  it,  with  con- 
traction of  the  muscles  of  the  vagina  on  the  slightest  irri- 
tation, and  is  known  to  the  profession  as  vaginismus. 
When  such  a  condition  is  present  the  woman  is  neces- 
sarily sterile  till  an  operation  is  performed  for  its  relief. 

Sterility  is  a  common  sequence  of  marriages  in  which 
the  temperaments  are  closely  similar.  In  such  cases  neither 
husband  nor  wife  is  to  blame,  as  has  ofcen  been  demonstrated 
by  both  having  children  by  second  marriages  after  being 
divorced,  or  both  having  had  children  by  previous  mar- 
riages. 

Among  the  most  common  causes  of  sterility  at  the  pres- 
ent day  are  the  disorders  developed  as  direct  sequences 
of  the  various  unnatural  methods  adopted  to  prevent 
conception  during  the  first  years  of  married  life.  In  fact, 
it  may  be  stated,  without  fear  of  contradiction,  that  in  a 
large  majority  of  cases  sterility  results  from  the  violation  of 
natural  laws,  either  during  the  formative  years  from  infancy 
to  puberty,  or  after  the  sexual  function  has  been  estab- 
lished. 

Whatever  the  cause  of  sterility,  it  is  a  mistake  to 
believe  that  it  cannot  be  overcome.  I  could  recount  scores 
of  cases  in  which  all  hope  of  offspring  had  been  given  up, 
and  yet  after  a  course  of  proper  treatment,  years  of  wait- 
ing and  longing  have  been  rewarded  by  the  birth  of  chil- 
dren. Let  it  be  understood,  then,  that  the  majority  of 
cases  of  sterility  are  due  to  removable  causes,  and  much 
longing  and  heart-ache  may  be  averted. 


CHAPTER  V. 

MOTHERHOOD. 

Conception  and  Pregnancy — Signs  of  Pregnancy — Foetal  Develop- 
ment—  Maternal  Changes  During  Pregnancy — Hygiene  of 
Pregnancy — Disorders  of  Pregnancy. 

Motherhood  is  the  crowning  glory  of  womanhood, 
and  every  true  woman  who  is  happily  married  cannot  but 
feel  a  thrill  of  pleasure  at  the  thought  of  clasping  her 
own  new-born  babe  to  her  breast.  Yet,  woman  should 
understand  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  maternity 
before  entering  upon  them,  for  the  future  well-being  of 
her  offspring  depends  not  alone  upon  her  ability  to  care 
for  it  after  birth,  but  upon  her  own  mental  and  physical 
condition  at  the  time  of  conception,  and  during  the  whole 
period  of  utero-gestation.  Motherhood  should  at  no  time 
be  the  result  of  accident,  but  of  design.  When  offspring 
is  desired,  both  husband  and  wife  should  be  in  perfect 
health,  and  free  from  all  anxiety  and  care,  and  mutual 
desire  should  prompt  the  sexual  act.  The  following  nine 
months  should  be  free  from  all  cause  of  anxiety  to  the 
expectant  mother,  and  she  should  be  surrounded  by 
everything  that  would  please  the  eye,  improve  the  mind, 
arouse  ennobling  thoughts  and  aspirations'.  Under  such 
circumstances  the  child  is  born  under  conditions  to  which 
it  is  entitled,  and  cannot  but  prove  a  blessing  to  its  parents, 
and  an  honor  to  mankind.  The  child  of  accident,  on  the 
other  hand,  may  be  puny,  nervous,  quarrelsome,  vicious, 


222  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and  even  criminal,  through  no  fault  of  its  own,  but  as  a 
result  of  the  ignorance  and  venality  of  its  parents.  There- 
fore, I  affirm  that  parents  have  no  right  to  beget  children 
unless  they  are  in  proper  condition  to  insure  them  physical 
health  and  moral  strength.  It  is  the  right,  and  should  be 
the  privilege,  of  every  woman,  to  control  her  maternal 
function,  and  to  select  the  time  when  she  desires  to  have 
a  child.  This  can  be  easily  done  by  observing  the  physio- 
logical law  stated  in  a  previous  chapter;  and,  under  a 
rational  system  of  marriage,  women  would  be  better  fitted 
to  give  birth  to  and  rear  children,  and  large  families  would 
be  the  rule,  instead  of  the  exception,  as  it  is  to-day,  among 
those  who  are  the  best  able  to  care  for  them. 

It  too  often  happens  that  the  poor  and  uneducated 
have  large  families  which  they  cannot  properly  provide 
for,  and  thus  are  furnished  the  recruits  for  the  ranks  of 
the  paupers  and  criminals;  while  the  society  women  who 
have  married  without  love,  resort  to  unnatural  methods 
of  prevention  and  abortion  to  escape  motherhood  entirely. 
These  facts  have  been  recognized  by  our  ablest  economists 
and  scientists,  and  they  have  spoken  on  the  subject  with 
no  uncertain  words.  John  Stuart  Mill  says:  "  It  is 
strange  that  intemperance  in  drink,  or  any  other  appetite, 
should  be  condemned  so  readily,  when  incontinence  in 
this  respect  should  always  meet,  not  only  with  indulgence, 
but  praise.  Little  improvement  can  be  expected  in  moral- 
ity, until  the  producing  too  large  families  is  regarded  with 
the  same  feeling  as  drunkenness,  or  any  other  physical 
excess." 

Dr.  Edward  Reich  says:  "  After  reviewing  the  mul- 
titudinous evils  which  result  to  individuals  and  society 
from  the  too  rapid  increase  of  families,  it  is  much  to  be 


GLADYS. 


MOTHERHOOD.  223 

wished  that  the  function  of  reproduction  be  placed  under 
the  dominion  of  the  will." 

Dr.  Naphey  says:  "  Men  are  very  ready  to  find  an 
excuse  for  self-indulgence,  and,  if  they  cannot  get  one 
anywhere  else,  they  seek  it  in  religion.  They  tell  woman 
it  is  her  duty  to  bear  all  the  children  she  can." 

Dr.  Pancoast  says:  "  Had  woman  the  possession  of 
herself,  and  the  control  of  her  maternal  functions  and 
duties,  instead  of  grievous  sufferings  and  privations,  she 
would  have  health  and  beauty,  not  only  of  her  own  organi- 
zation, but  she  would  become  the  mother  of  children 
equally  vigorous  and  lovely.  Surely  nothing  is  more 
wicked  than  to  bring  into  the  world  such  numbers  of 
helpless  and  innocent  beings  to  doom  them  to  poverty, 
ignorance  and  crime,  because  of  their  parents'  inability  to 
make  necessary  provision  for  them." 

Dr.  John  H.  Dye  says:  "  I  am  convinced,  from  care- 
ful study  and  extensive  research,  that  society  or  popula- 
tion would  not  suffer  if  the  act  of  generation  was  wholly 
under  the  dominion  of  the  will." 

Other  things  being  equal,  women  who  are  fully  ma- 
tured give  birth  to  better  developed  children,  both  mentally 
and  physically,  than  very  young  women.  It  is  equally  true 
that  nearly  all  of  the  great  men  the  world  has  ever  known, 
inherited  most  of  their  characteristics  from  their  mothers, 
and  owe  their  greatness,  in  a  large  measure,  to  their  teach- 
ings and  influence. 

How  important,  then,  that  women  should  understand 
the  laws  of  their  being,  that  they  should  realize  the  impor- 
tance of  the  requisites  for  a  true  marriage,  that  they  should 
conceive  and  bring  forth  their  offspring  under  proper  con- 
ditions, and  that  they  should  know  how  to  rear  their  chil- 


224  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

dren  during  their  formative  years;  for  it  is  only  through 
the  influence  of  enlightened  motherhood  that  we  can 
expect  any  advancement  in  our  social  conditions. 

CONCEPTION  AND    PREGNANCY. 

Conception  is  a  term  used  to  designate  the  bringing 
together  of  the  vital  elements  of  the  male  and  female, 
necessary  for  procreation.  It  is  the  fecundation  or  im- 
pregnation of  the  female  ovum,  or  egg,  by  the  positive 
contact  of  the  male  sperm  and  the  subsequent  attachment 
of  this  ovum  to  the  interior  of  the  womb.  It  is  a  ques- 
tion of  doubt  where  this  union  takes  place.  Some  author- 
ities claim  that  the  male  sperm  passes  through  the  uterus 
and  Fallopian  tube,  and  impregnates  the  ovum  before  it 
leaves  the  ovary,  while  others  believe  that  it  may  be  im- 
pregnated at  any  point  in  its  passage  before  it  escapes 
from  the  womb.  It  is,  however,  reasonable  to  suppose 
that  impregnation  may  take  place  at  any  point  in  the  Fal- 
lopian tube,  as  this  canal  is  so  small  that  the  sperm  could 
hardly  pass  the  egg  in  its  passage  outward.  This  contro- 
versy, however,  is  of  no  importance  to  the  general  public 
for  practical  purposes. 

As  previously  stated,  conception  is  most  likely  to 
occur  immediately  after  menstruation,  and  those  who 
desire  offspring  would  do  well  to  fix  the  connubial  act 
during  the  three  or  four  days  immediately  following 
the  cessation  of  the  flow.  After  the  lapse  of  twelve 
days  impregnation  rarely  occurs,  and  many  well-known 
authorities  even  go  so  far  as  to  say  that  it  is  impossible 
after  that  time. 

Excessive  sexual  indulgence  will  often  prevent  the 
fecundated  ovum  from   adhering  to  the  womb,  and  thus 


CONCEPTION  AND    PREGNANCY.  225 

prevent  conception  even  when  it  is  most  desired.  An 
important  lesson  should  be  learned  from  this,  and  it 
should  be  borne  in  mind  that  when  offspring  is  desired 
strict  continence  should  be  observed  for  at  least  a  month. 
This  insures  greater  virility  to  the  male  sperm  as  wrell  as  to 
the  future  offspring. 

While  it  is  generally  conceded  that  the  most  perfect 
children  are  produced  when  the  woman  enjoys  the  sexual 
act,  yet  it  is  a  well-known  fact  that  enjoyment  is  not 
necessary  for  conception.  Women  often  conceive  when 
they  submit  to  the  embraces  of  their  husbands  with 
loathing  and  disgust,  but,  when  such'  is  the  case,  the 
children  suffer  a  moral  and  physical  blight  that  follows 
them  through  life. 

Pregnancy  is  the  term  applied  to  the  condition  of  the 
woman  from  the  moment  of  conception  to  the  birth  of  the 
child,  and  it  covers  a  period  of  two  hundred  and  eighty 
days,  dating  from  the  last  menstrual  flow.  Sometimes  it 
terminates  sooner  than  this,  and  again  it  may  cover  a 
period  of  over  ten  calendar  months. 

It  is  not  an  easy  matter  to  ascertain  the  commence- 
ment of  pregnancy.  The  time  of  the  last  menstrual  flow, 
and  quickening,  are  taken  as  the  usual  guides,  but  these 
are  uncertain,  as  conception  may  take  place  during  men- 
struation, or  the  menses  may  continue  for  some  months 
during  pregnancy;  while  the  time  at  which  life  is  felt  dif- 
fers considerably  in  different  women.  In  consequence  of 
this  uncertainty,  laws  have  been  enacted  in  different  coun- 
tries fixing  the  period  within  which  the  child  is  acknowl- 
edged as  legitimate.  In  France,  the  "  Code  Napoleon  " 
fixes  three  hundred  days  after  the  absence,  divorce,  or 
death  of  the  husband  as  the  time  within  which  a  child 


226  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

must  be  born,  to  be  legitimate;  in  Prussia,  three  hundred 
and  one  days  are  allowed;  in  Scotland  ten  calendar  months 
are  considered  the  extent  of  legitimacy;  while  in  England 
and  America  the  time  is  not  determined  by  law. 

The  earliest  period  at  which  a  child  can  be  born  after 
marriage  is  also  an  important  question,  as  it  often  involves 
the  happiness  of  families,  the  reputation  of  the  mother, 
and  the  legitimacy  of  offspring.  The  seventh  month  is 
usually  considered  the  shortest  period  in  which  a  child  can 
be  born  and  live,  yet  instances  are  reported  where  the 
period  of  utero-gestation  has  not  exceeded  six  months, 
and  in  Scotland  a  child  is  considered  legitimate  when  born 
six  months  after  marriage.  Great  caution  should,  how- 
ever, be  observed  in  giving  an  opinion  on  this  subject,  as 
the  variations  of  development  are  not  fully  understood, 
even  at  this  late  day. 

We  speak  of  pregnancy  as  simple  when  there  is  one 
foetus  in  the  womb;  as  compound  or  multiple,  when  there 
are  more  than  one;  as  complex \  or  complicated,  when  there 
is  some  morbid  condition  of  the  womb  or  its  appendages 
present  besides  the  foetus,  as  a  mole,  hydatid  tumor,  polypus 
or  tumor  of  the  ovary.  When  the  ovum,  after  impregna- 
tion, fails  to  reach  the  womb,  and  becomes  partially  devel- 
oped outside  of  it,  we  have  what  is  called  extra-uterine 
pregnancy;  and,  when  accumulations  form  in  the  womb  and 
simulate  pregnancy,  when  no  conception  has  taken  place, 
we  have  false  pregnancy. 

SIGNS    OF   PREGNANCY. 

The  signs  by  which  pregnancy  is  recognized  are  far 
from  certain,  and  often  mislead  the  most  experienced  phy- 
sicians.     Women  who  have  always  menstruated  regularly, 


SIGNS   OF   PREGNANCY.  227 

and  find  a  cessation  of  the  menses  after  intercourse,  natu- 
rally infer,  however,  that  they  are  pregnant,  and  they  are 
generally  correct.  When  this  is  followed  by  abdominal 
enlargement  and  "  the  sensation  of  life,"  at  the  proper  time, 
the  inference  is  strengthened  almost  to  a  certainty,  yet  all 
these  signs  may  exist  without  pregnancy. 

Though  many  women  who  have  once  been  pregnant 
claim  to  know  when  conception  takes  place,  from  some 
peculiarsensation  which  follows  fruitful  intercourse,  yet  it  is 
impossible  to  diagnose  pregnancy  during  the  early  weeks. 

The  authorities  divide  the  signs  of  pregnancy  into 
rational  and  sensible.  The  rational  is  again  divided  into 
general,  local  and  sympathetic,  while  the  sensible  signs  are 
divided  into  the  visible,  audible  and  tangible.  Among  the 
general  signs  the  following  may  be  enumerated:  The  pulse 
is  stronger  and  more  frequent,  and  in  the  latter  months  of 
less  volume  and  intermittent;  respiration  is  more  rapid,  and 
the  heat  of  the  body  is  increased;  the  secretions  are  more 
abundant;  increased  sensitiveness  is  observed,  and  a  com- 
plete change  of  disposition  sometimes  takes  place;  if  pre- 
vious disease  exists,  its  progress  is  either  retarded  or  rapidly 
intensified,  and  the  system  becomes  more  liable  to  take  on 
disease. 

The  local  signs  are  suppression  of  the  menses  without 
other  derangement  of  the  general  health,  change  in  the 
color  of  the  vulva  from  a  pinkish  to  a  bluish  tint,  and  the 
appearance  of  brownish  or  yellowish  patches  on  the  fore- 
head, cheeks,  neck  and  breasts. 

The  sympathetic  signs  are  nausea,  morning  sickness, 
acidity  of  the  stomach,  and  heartburn  during  the  early 
months,  and  constipation,  piles  and  headache  during  the 
latter  months. 


228  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

These  signs  are  only  important  when  recognized  in 
connection  with  the  sensible  signs  given  below. 

The  visible  signs  are,  the  enlarged,  rounded  and  tense 
condition  of  the  breasts,  which  develops  in  the  early 
stages;  the  increase  in  the  size  of  the  nipples;  the  change 
from  a  natural  pink  to  a  deep  brown  in  the  color  of  the 
areola,  or  rings,  around  the  nipples,  soon  after  conception; 
the  secretion  of  milk,  gradual  enlargement  of  the  abdomen 
after  the  third  month ;  and  quickening,  or  the  fluttering 
sensation  felt  after  the  fourth  month,  which  is  supposed  to 
indicate  the  viability  of  the  foetus. 

The  audible  signs  are  those  that  can  be  heard  by 
placing  the  ear  on  the  naked  abdomen  or  by  the  use  of 
the  stethoscope.  They  are  the  placental  sound  caused 
by  the  circulation  of  the  blood  through  the  vessels  of  the 
womb  and  placenta,  or  afterbirth;  and  the  sound  of  the 
foetal  heart.  These  sounds  can  be  recognized  between 
the  fourth  and  fifth  month,  and,  when  both  are  heard,  they 
furnish  positive  evidence  of  pregnancy. 

The  tangible  signs  are  such  as  can  be  recognized  by 
touch,  and  are  among  those  upon  which  the  physician 
relies  when  making  a  careful  examination.  The  princi- 
ple ones  are  the  enlargement  and  hardness  of  the  womb, 
as  felt  over  the  surface  of  the  abdomen  and  by  vaginal 
examination;  the  passive  motion  of  the  foetus  in  the 
womb,  called  ballottement\  and  the  position  and  changes 
in  the  condition  of  the  neck  of  the  womb  during  the  dif- 
ferent stages  of  pregnancy. 

These  latter  signs  are  by  far  the  most  certain, 
especially  when  taken  in  connection  with  the  pulsation  of 
the  foetal  heart;  while  the  cessation  of  the  menses,  morn- 
ing sickness,  and  even  a  sensation  similar  to  quickening, 


FGETAL   DEVELOPMENT.  229 

may  occur  from  many  other  conditions  without  concep- 
tion. 

FCETAL   DEVELOPMENT. 

A  minute  description  of  the  development  of  the 
ovum  and  foetus  cannot  be  attempted  in  a  popular  work 
of  this  character,  and  in  fact  no  description  is  necessary 
for  the  purposes  of  the  work;  but  a  subject  of  such 
absorbing  interest  can  hardly  be  passed  over  without 
mention. 

The  human  ovum,  or  egg,  like  that  of  all  animals,  is 
primarily  a  simple  cell  consisting  of  a  nucleus  and  a  mass 
of  protoplasm.  Within  the  nucleus  is  another  small  body 
called  the  nucleolus.  In  the  egg-cell  the  protoplasm 
becomes  the  vitellus,  or  yelk,  the  nucleus  changes  to  a 
large  colorless  vesicle  called  the  germinal  vesicle,  and  the 
nucleolus  remains  as  a  dark  body  known  as  the  germinal 
point.  In  the  further  process  of  development  an  envelope 
or  covering  is  formed  around  the  cell,  which,  on  account 
of  its  perfect  transparency,  is  called  the  zona  pellucida. 
It  is  also  called  the  chorion,  from  the  Greek  word  which 
signifies  skin.  Soon  after  the  egg  is  discharged  from  the 
ovum  the  germinal  vesicle  disappears,  it  being  either 
absorbed  by  the  yelk  or  forced  through  the  investing 
membrane. 

It  is  in  this  condition  that  the  egg  is  met  by  the  sper- 
matozoa, or  vivifying  principle  of  the  male.  These  little 
bodies  were  long  regarded  as  actual  animals,  but  it  is  now 
positively  known  that  they  are  simple  cells,  and  they  are 
called  male  sperm-cells.  When  the  simple  male  cell 
comes  in  contact  with  the  female  egg-cell,  the  two  coalesce 
and  form  a  new  cell,  entirely  different  from  either,  which 
Haeckel  calls  the  parent-cell. 


230  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

In  speaking  of  this  coalescence  of  the  male  and  female 
cells,  Haeckel  says: 

"  The  result  of  this  is,  that,  in  the  first  place,  the  egg- 
cell  is  rendered  capable  of  further  evolution;  and,  secondly, 
that  the  hereditary  qualities  of  both  parents  are  trans- 
mitted to  the  child. 

"  The.  fertilized  egg-cell  is,  therefore,  of  a  nature 
entirely  different  from  that  of  the  unfertilized  egg-cell. 
For,  since  we  regard  the  sperm-cell  as  well  as  the  egg-cell 
as  true  cells,  and  since  fertilization  essentially  consists  in 
the  amalgamation  of  the  former  with  the  latter,  therefore 
the  cell  which  results  from  this  amalgamation  must  be 
regarded  as  an  entirely  new,  independent  organism.  It 
contains,  in  the  protoplasm  of  the  sperm-cell,  a  portion  of 
the  paternal,  male  body,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  in  the 
protoplasm  of  the  original  egg-cell,  a  portion  of  the  mater- 
nal, female  body.  #  #  #  T\iz  new 
cell,  which  is  the  rudiment  of  the  child,  the  newly  gener- 
ated organism,  originates  in  an  actual  amalgamation,  or 
coalescence,  of  the  two  cells." 

In  from  twenty-four  to  thirty  hours  after  the  forma- 
tion of  this  parent-cell  a  single  nucleus  is  formed  near  its 
center,  and,  by  a  process  known  as  egg-cleavage  or  seg- 
mentation, this  nucleus  divides  into  two  nuclei,  and  those 
again  divide  until  by  repeated  cleavage  an  infinite  number 
of  cells  are  generated,  which  are  closely  pressed  together 
so  as  to  present  a  mulberry  appearance.  A  clear,  watery 
fluid  collects  in  the  center,  and  presses  the  cells  to  the 
surface,  and  by  degrees  a  layer  of  cells  is  formed  and  is 
called  the  blastodermic  membrane.  This  membrane  next 
divides  into  two  layers  of  cells,  the  outer  layer  being 
called  the  ectoderm ,  and  the  inner  layer  the  endoderm.     A 


FCETAL   DEVELOPMENT.  23 1 

third  layer  is  developed  later,  between  these  two,  which 
is  called  the  mesoderm,  and  this  is  finally  divided  into  an 
outer  and  inner  layer.  It  will  thus  be  seen  that  at  one 
stage  of  development  the  embryo  is  composed  of  four  dis- 
tinct layers. 

It  is  claimed,  that,  in  the  further  development,  the 
brain,  spinal  cord,  organs  of  special  sense,  the  genito- 
urinary system,  the  glandular  structures,  the  skin,  hair, 
nails  and  epidermis  are  all  formed  from  the  outer  cell- 
layer,  or  ectoderm,  the  muscles  of  the  trunk  and  the  bones 
are  formed  from  the  second  layer,  or  outer  layer  of  the 
mesoderm',  the  blood-vessels,  blood,  heart,  and  the 
muscular  and  fibrous  tissues  of  the  alimentary  canal  come 
from  the  third  layer,  or  inner  layer  of  the  mesoderm; 
while  the  fourth  layer,  or  endoderm,  forms  the  epithelium 
that  lines  the  walls  and  glands  of  the  stomach  and 
intestines. 

Immediately  after  the  blastodermic  membrane  has 
divided  into  the  two  layers,  an  opaque  collection  of  small 
cells  is  formed,  which  is  called  the  embryonic  spot.  This 
spot  soon  becomes  elongated  into  a  faint  line,  which  is  the 
first  trace  of  the  embryo,  and  is  called  the  primitive  trace. 
In  front  of  this  line  two  folds  are  formed,  and  these  form 
a  groove  in  a  line  with  the  primitive  trace.  These  folds 
extend  above  the  groove,  and  form  two  dorsal  plates,  which 
gradually  unite,  and  inclose  a  canal,  which  afterward  con- 
tains the  brain  and  spinal  cord.  In  the  same  way  similar 
layers  are  given  off  from  the  under  surface  of  the  blasto- 
derm, which  coalesce  and  form  the  abdominal  cavity.  In 
the  meantime  the  points  for  the  development  of  the  head 
and  lower  extremities  have  become  located  and  curved  in 
the  form  of  a  crescent,  with  a  prolongation  of  the  vitelline 


232  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

mass  extending  from  the  concave  surface  of  the  body  of 
the  embryo,  and  connected  to  it  by  a  small  duct.  This 
prolongation  is  called  the  umbilical  vesicle.  Blood-vessels 
appear  on  this  vesicle,  the  object  of  which  is  to  supply 
nutritive  material  to  the  embryo,  till  it  can  derive  its 
nourishment  from  the  uterus,  after  which  the  vesicle  dis- 
appears. Soon  after  the  formation  of  the  umbilical  vesi- 
cle, double  folds  formed  from  the  external  layer  are  thrown 
off  from  the  extremities  of  the  body  of  the  embryo,  and, 
when  they  meet  and  coalesce,  they  form  what  is  called  the 
amniotic  cavity  or  sac.  This  cavity  fills  with  a  fluid,  called 
the  liquor  amnii,  in  which  the  foetus  floats  till  the  time  of 
labor.  This  sac  or  membrane  breaks  during  the  first  stage 
of  labor,  and  the  liquor  amnii  escapes.  It  is  commonly 
called  the  "  bag  of  waters,"  and  the  escape  of  the  fluid  is 
spoken  of  as  the  "  breaking  of  the  waters.  " 

During  the  development  of  the  amniori  another  body, 
called  the  allantois,  appears,  and  it  derives  its  name  from 
the  Greek,  and  means  "  sausage-shaped."  It  grows  rap- 
idly, and  divides  into  three  parts,  one  of  which  forms  the 
urinary  bladder;  another,  the  umbilical  cord;  and  the 
third  surrounds  and  replaces  the  old  chorion  or  investing 
membrane,  and  becomes  the  true  chorion,  or  inclosing 
membrane. 

While  these  changes  are  going  on  in  the  ovum, 
correlative  changes  are  taking  place  in  the  uterus. 
The  mucous  membrane  becomes  congested,  and,  by  a 
rapid  throwing  off  and  organization  of  epithelial  cells,  a 
new  membrane  is  formed,  which  lines  the  entire  uterine 
cavity.  This  membrane  is  called  the  decidua,  or  deciduous 
membrane,  because  it  is  only  temporary,  and  is  thrown  off 
when  it  has  served  its  purpose. 


FOETAL   DEVELOPMENT.  233 

On  its  descent  from  the  Fallopian  tube,  the  parent- 
cell,  which  has  undergone  development,  at  least  so  far  as 
the  formation  and  division  of  the  blastodermic  membrane, 
is  lodged  in  one  of  the  folds  of  this  deciduous  membrane, 
by  which  it  soon  becomes  surrounded.  As  the  ovum 
increases  in  size,  it  crowds  into  the  cavity  of  the  womb, 
and  carries  with  it  the  portion  of  the  decidua  by  which  it 
is  surrounded.  The  decidua  is  now  well  developed,  and 
the  part  inclosing  the  ovum  is  called  the  decidua  reflexa,  or 
reflexed  decidua,  and  the  part  that  lines  the  cavity  of  the 
womb  is  called  the  decidua  vera,  or  true  decidua.  The  part 
thatlies  between  the  ovum  and  the  nearest  point  of  the  uter- 
ine wall  is  called  the  decidua  serotina,  or  late  decidua, 
because  it  was  the  latest  developed.  At  about  the  end  of 
the  third  month  these  two  layers  of  decidua  come  together 
and  are  completely  blended  into  one.  At  the  point  called 
the  late  decidua,  the  blood-vessels  of  the  allantois,  which 
form  the  umbilical  cord,  develop  the  placenta,  or  after- 
birth. 

The  plastic  material  known  as  protoplasm,  at  first 
supplies  nourishment  to  the  parent-cell;  then  the  blasto- 
dermic membrane  must  effect  oxidation  in  the  struc- 
tures of  the  embryo  till  the  umbilical  vesicle  is  formed 
and  supplies  the  nutrition.  In  the  uterus  the  allantois  sup- 
plies the  nutrition  by  absorption  from  the  decidua  ;  and, 
finally,  upon  the  development  of  the  placenta,  with  its 
numerous  blood-vessels,  intimately  connected  with  the 
blood-vessels  of  the  womb,  the  nutrition  is  derived  directly 
from  the  mother,  in  the  same  way  as  are  the  several  organs 
of  her  body  supplied. 

For  a  more  concise  account  of  the  development  of  the 
fcetus  in  the  successive  months  of  pregnancy,  I  condense 


2  34  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

the  following  paragraphs  from  Prof.  Wm.  T.  Lusk's 
"  Science  and  Art  of  Midwifery,"  which  will  be  seen  to 
cover  ten  lunar  months  of  twenty-eight  days  each: 

First  Month. —  At  the  end  of  the  second  week,  the 
embryonic  spot  is  seen,  with  the  two  dorsal  plates.  The 
embryo  is  one-twelfth  of  an  inch  in  length.  In  three 
weeks  the  embryo  is  one-sixth  of  an  inch  long,  the  cephalic 
or  head  extremity  is  enlarged,  and  the  back  is  curved  like 
a  crescent.  At  four  weeks  the  length  is  one-third  of  an 
inch,  the  eyes  at  the  side  of  the  head,  and  the  ears 
behind  them.  The  extremities  are  indicated  by  four  small, 
bud-like  processes.  The  intestinal  canal  is  formed,  also 
the  beginning  of  the  spinal  cord. 

Second  Month. —  From  the  sixth  to  the  seventh  week 
the  embryo  measures  about  one  inch  along  the  curve  of 
the  back,  bony  material  begins  to  form  in  the  lower  jaw 
and  collar  bone,  and  the  extremities  are  clearly  indicated. 

Third  Month. —  The  embryo  is  between  three  and 
three  and  one-half  inches  in  length  toward  the  end  of  the 
third  month.  The  placenta  is  formed,  though  small,  the 
cord  is  quite  long  and  twisted,  the  ribs  are  formed,  all  the 
bones  have  begun  to  harden,  and  all  the  parts  are  recog- 
nizable, but  the  head  is  much  larger  in  proportion,  and 
separated  from  the  trunk  by  a  well-defined  neck. 

Fourth  Month. —  Toward  the  end  of  the  fourth  the 
placenta  has  increased  in  size  and  thickness,  the  cord  is 
three  times  as  long  as  the  foetus.  The  foetus  measures 
from  four  to  six  inches,  and  the  head  is  one-fourth  the 
length  of  the  entire  body.  The  bones  of  the  head  are 
partly  hardened,  but  the  sutures  are  widely  separated. 
The  mouth,  eyes  and  ears  are  in  their  proper  places.  The 
skin   is   firm,  and  the  hair  begins  to  form   on  the  scalp. 


FCETAL    DEVELOPMENT.  235 

The  sex  is  distinguishable,  and  toward  the  end  of  the 
month  slight  movement  of  the  limbs  takes  place. 

Fifth  Month. —  The  foetus  measures  from  seven  to 
ten  inches,  and  weighs  nearly  ten  ounces.  The  head  is 
still  unduly  large,  and  the  face  has  an  old  look,  and  fine 
hair  covers  the  whole  surface  of  the  body.  The  foetal 
movements  are  now  distinctly  felt  by  the  mother,  a  sen- 
sation that  is  called  "  quickening,"  or  "  feeling  life." 

Sixth  Month.—  At  the  end  of  the  sixth  month  the 
length  is  from  eleven  to  thirteen  inches,  and  the  weight 
about  twenty-three  ounces.  The  eyelids  separate,  and  fat 
begins  to  be  deposited.  A  foetus  born  at  this  time  breathes 
feebly,  but  dies  in  a  very  short  time. 

Seventh  Month.  —  The  length  is  now  fourteen  or  fifteen 
inches,  and  the  weight  about  thirty-nine  ounces.  The  skin 
is  wrinkled,  red,  and  covered  with  a  white,  sticky  substance. 
Children  born  between  the  twenty-fourth  and  twenty- 
eighth  weeks  move  their  limbs  and  cry  feebly  at  birth,  but 
cannot  live  more  than  a  fewhours,  or  a  day  or  two  at  most. 

Eighth  Month.  —  The  foetus  now  measures  sixteen  or 
seventeen  inches,  and  weighs  on  an  average  a  little  over 
three  pounds.  The  hair  increases  in  thickness,  the  skin  is 
smoother,  and  the  navel  is  near  the  center  of  the  body.  A 
child  born  during  this  period  will  often  live  when  properly 
cared  for. 

Ninth  Month. —  The  length  at  this  time  does  not  vary 
more  than  half  an  inch  from  the  last,  and  the  weight  is 
about  four  pounds.  The  face  is  rounded,  wrinkles  are 
nearly  all  gone,  the  hair  disappears  from  the  body,  and 
the  head  is  well  formed,  though  the  bones  bend  easily. 
Children  born  at  this  period  are  less  energetic  than  at  full 
time,  but  are  likely  to  die  from  lack  of  care. 


236  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Tenth  Month. —  During  the  first  two  weeks  of  this 
month  the  length  is  about  eighteen  or  nineteen  inches,  and 
the  weight  about  five  pounds. 

The  Foetus  at  Term. — At  the  end  of  the  full  term 
the  child  at  birth  is  plump  and  well  rounded,  the  skin  has 
lost  its  deep  red  color,  and  the  hair  as  a  rule  has  entirely- 
disappeared  from  the  body.  It  cries  lustily  soon  after 
birth,  moves  the  limbs  freely,  and  nurses  when  put  to  the 
breast.  In  the  first  few  hours  it  should  pass  urine,  as  well 
as  a  black  or  brownish-green  substance  from  the  bowels. 

The  average  length  at  birth  is  from  twenty  to  twenty- 
one  inches,  and  the  weight  ranges  from  five  to  fourteen 
pounds,  but  the  average  weight  is  about  seven  pounds. 
Cases  do  occur  where  the  weight  is  sixteen  or  eighteen 
pounds,  but  they  are  very  rare. 

The  term  ovum  properly  means  the  unimpregnated 
egg,  though  it  is  often  applied  to  the  impregnated  egg  till 
it  is  lodged  in  the  womb  and  surrounded  by  the  decidua. 
Embryo  is  the  term  applied  to  the  impregnated  ovum  in 
the  early  stages  of  its  development,  which  properly  begins 
the  first  day  of  fecundation,  and  extends  till  the  end  of 
the  third  month,  though  some  say  it  should  extend  to  the 
period  of"  quickening."  After  life  is  felt,  the  term  fcettts 
is  used  till  the  time  of  birth,  when  child  or  infant  is  the 
proper  term.  These  words  are,  however,  often  used 
synonymously. 

MATERNAL  CHANGES  DURING  PREGNANCY. 

From  the  very  beginning  of  pregnancy,  the  womb 
becomes  engorged  with  blood,  and  a  gradual  increase  in 
the  size  of  the  organ  takes  place.  This  increase  of  size  is 
not  due  to  stretching,  but  is  an  actual  growth  of  the  mus- 


MATERNAL   CHANGES   DURING   PREGNANCY.  237 

cular  fibers  of  which  the  womb  is  composed.  The  walls 
of  the  abdomen  are  put  upon  the  stretch  by  the  growth  of 
the  womb,  and  by  the  fifth  month  the  depression  of  the 
navel  begins  to  diminish,  by  the  seventh  month  it  is  level 
with  the  surrounding  skin,  and  during  the  last  two  months 
it  often  protrudes.  During  the  last  three  months  the  skin 
of  the  abdomen  is  marked  by  reddish,  bluish,  or  glisten- 
ing, white  streaks,  which  do  not  disappear  after  delivery. 

The  abdomen  gradually  increases  in  size  till  the  end 
of  the  eighth  month,  when  the  uterus  has  reached  its 
highest  point  in  the  abdomen,  and  the  greatest  prominence 
is  above  the  navel.  About  two  weeks  before  the  full  term 
the  womb  sinks  into  the  pelvic  cavity,  and  the  prominence 
above  the  navel  is  greatly  diminished,  and  the  greatest 
protrusion  is  seen  at  the  lowest  point  of  the  abdomen. 

Previous  to  pregnancy  the  breasts  are  firm  and 
rounded.  About  the  second  month  they  begin  to  enlarge, 
and  they  seem  uneven  and  knotty  to  the  touch.  The 
veins  enlarge,  and  are  plainly  seen  under  the  skin,  while  a 
darting,  shooting  pain  is  sometimes  felt.  The  nipples 
become  lengthened,  and  often  sensitive  to  the  slightest 
touch,  and,  as  before  mentioned,  the  dark  circle  surround- 
ing them  takes  on  a  darker  hue,  and  the  sweat  follicles 
become  considerably  enlarged. 

Quickening,  or  the  feeling  of  the  motion  of  the  foetus 
that  indicates  life,  is  a  peculiar  sensation  to  the  expectant 
mother.  When  first  felt,  it  is  more  a  nervous  thrill  than 
a  motion,  and,  when  once  felt,  it  is  never  forgotten. 

The  appetite  is  often  capricious,  and  there  is  fre- 
quently a  longing  for  some  article  of  food  that  is  disliked 
at  other  times;  and  in  some  cases  women  who  are  gen- 
erally   healthy   are     invalids  during    the    whole    term    of 


238  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

pregnancy.  On  the  other  hand,  women  who  are  puny 
and  sickly  as  a  rule,  frequently  enjoy  the  best  of  health 
while  pregnant,  but  relapse  into  chronic  ill-health  soon 
after  confinement.  The  nervous  system  is  more  sensitive 
during  pregnancy,  and  for  this  reason  it  is  important  that 
pregnant  women  should  avoid  everything  calculated  to 
make  any  unpleasant  impressions  upon  them. 

It  often  happens  that  women  who  have  suffered  from 
uterine  diseases  and  displacements  for  years,  are  entirely 
cured  after  giving  birth  to  a  child,  and  being  properly 
cared  for  afterward.  This  is  due  to  the  entire  change 
which  takes  place  in  the  womb  during  gestation,  which 
practically  amounts  to  the  production  of  a  new  organ. 

HYGIENE   OF   PREGNANCY. 

As  the  pregnant  woman  is  required  to  supply  nutri- 
tive material,  not  only  for  repairing  the  waste  in  her  own 
body,  but  also  for  the  development  of  another  human 
being,  it  is  necessary  that  she  should  observe  such  laws  of 
health  as  will  favor  the  most  perfect  nutrition. 

The  pregnant  woman  requires  an  increased  amount  of 
oxygen,  as  is  demonstrated  by  the  fact  that  an  increased 
amount  of  carbonic  acid  gas  is  thrown  off  by  the  lungs. 
To  supply  this  oxygen  an  abundance  of  fresh,  pure  air  is 
requisite,  and  this  can  only  be  had  by  spending  considera- 
ble time  in  the  open  air,  and  having  the  living-rooms  and 
sleeping-rooms  well  ventilated.  The  living-rooms,  during 
winter,  should  be  kept  at  a  temperature  of  700,  or  very 
little  over,  and  a  window  in  the  sleeping-room  should  always 
be  kept  open  all  night,  even  in  very  cold  weather. 

Regular  and  systematic  out-door  exercise  should  be 
persisted  in  from   the  time  of  conception,  and  nothing  is 


HYGIENE   OF    PREGNANCY.  239 

more  conducive  to  health  than  walking.  It  is  not  the 
thing  to  take  a  walk  one  day,  and  remain  in  the  house  the 
rest  of  the  week.  A  brisk  morning  walk  of  half  an  hour 
and  an  afternoon  walk  of  an  hour  will  be  found  of  great 
benefit.  Such  walks  will  expand  the  lungs,  strengthen  the 
muscles,  aid  digestion,  overcome  constipation,  and  drive 
away  the  "  blues."  Delicate  women  should  begin  with 
short  walks,  which  can  be  gradually  increased  as  they 
increase  in  strength,  which  they  are  sure  to  do  in  a  very 
short  time, 

Every  article  of  dress  should  be  loose  and  comfort- 
able. Skirts  should  be  suspended  from  the  shoulders, 
and  the  stockings  supported  by  side  elastics,  instead  of 
garters.  Corsets  should  not  be  worn,  or  made  so  loose  as 
to  admit  of  no  possible  pressure.  Flannel  should  be  worn 
next  the  skin,  and  the  feet  and  legs  should  be  warmlv 
clad. 

Bathing  is  of  great  importance  to  keep  the  skin 
active,  for  in  this  way  the  kidneys  are  relieved  of  a  por- 
tion of  their  work,  which  is  often  rendered  difficult  by 
direct  pressure.  A  good  warm  bath,  of  the  temperature 
of  100°,  should  be  taken  about  twice  a  week,  before  retir- 
ing, and  the  tepid  or  cold  sponge-bath  every  morning 
immediately  after  arising,  will  be  found  healthful  and 
invigorating.  Hot  foot-baths  are  also  serviceable  to  relieve 
cold  feet  and  to  quiet  nervousness  before  retiring.  Brisk 
friction,  with  a  Turkish  towel,  should  be  applied  after  all 
baths,  as  it  draws  the  blood  to  the  surface,  and  thus  brings 
about  a  pleasant  reaction. 

A  vaginal  douche  usually  proves  a  source  of  comfort. 
It  is  best  applied  with  a  fountain  syringe,  and  no  more 
than  a  pint  of  tepid  water  should  be  used   at  a  time.      It 


240  FACTS  FOR    LADIES. 

should  be  introduced  slowly,  and  allowed  to  pass  out  of 
the  vagina  readily.  It  can  be  used  with  advantage  night 
and  morning. 

Eight  hours'  sleep  should  be  the  minimum  for  the 
pregnant  woman,  and  this  she  can  generally  secure  by 
proper  attention  to  her  general  condition  of  health. 

The  diet  should  be  selected  from  the  most  nutritious 
and  easily  digested  articles  of  food,  and  should  be  suffi- 
ciently varied  to  suit  the  palate.  As  the  stomach  requires 
rest  as  well  as  any  other  part  of  the  body,  it  is  a  great  mis- 
take to  be  constantly  putting  food  into  the  stomach  at  short 
intervals.  Three  meals  a  day  at  fixed  hours  is  much  bet- 
ter than  the  "  little  and  often"  theory.  A  very  large 
appetite  in  pregnant  women  is  not  natural,  and,  therefore, 
when  present,  it  should  be  restrained.  A  mixed  diet  of 
meat  and  vegetables  is  the  best,  but  care  should  be  taken 
to  avoid  pastries  and  confectioneries,  while  pure  sugars 
and  starches  should  be  used  with  great  moderation.  These 
articles  tend  to  produce  acidity  of  the  stomach,  heart- 
burn and  colic.  The  food  should  always  be  thoroughly 
masticated  before  swallowing,  therefore  plenty  of  time 
should  be  taken  at  meals. 

DISORDERS    OF   PREGNANCY. 

The  nervous  system  is  made  up  of  two  systems  of 
nerves.  One  originates  from  the  brain  and  the  spinal 
cord,  and  supplies  the  nerves  of  motion  and  sensation,  as 
well  as  those  of  the  special  senses,  and  is  called  the  cere- 
brospinal system  of  nerves.  The  other  is  composed  of 
ganglia,  or  knots  of  nerve-cells,  connected  by  nerve  bands 
with  each  other,  with  the  several  internal  organs  and  with 
branches  of  the  cerebro-spinal  system,  and  they  are  situ- 


DISORDERS   OF    PREGNANCY.  24 1 

ated  in  the  large  cavities  of  the  body.  This  system  is  called 
the  great  sympathetic  nerve,  because  it  forms  the  intimate 
connection  between  the  several  organs,  and  it  is  through 
this  connection  that  the  womb  is  brought  in  strong  ner- 
vous sympathy  with  every  part  of  the  body. 

When  the  womb  is  aroused  to  a  state  of  activity  by 
pregnancy,  its  muscles,  absorbents  and  blood-vessels 
become  enlarged,  and,  by  pressure  or  change  of  position, 
some  irritation  or  stimulus  is  applied  to  the  uterine  nerves, 
which,  through  the  great  sympathetic,  gives  rise  to  condi- 
tions that  are  regarded  as  indications  of  pregnancy.  In 
many  cases,  however,  this  irritation  is  so  severe  and  pro- 
tracted as  to  cause  disturbances  of  a  serious  character, 
which  are  usually  classed  as  "  disorders  of  pregnancy," 
the  most  common  of  which  are  here  described. 

Morning  Sickness.  —  Nausea  and  vomiting,  or 
morning  sickness,  as  it  is  generally  called,  is  the  first  sign 
of  pregnancy  after  the  cessation  of  the  menses.  It  some- 
times commences  immediately  after  conception,  but  in  the 
majority  of  cases  it  is  first  felt  from  the  fourth  to  the  sixth 
week.  The  nausea  is  usually  felt  on  rising  in  the  morn- 
ing, and  is  sometimes  relieved  by  eating  breakfast,  but  is 
more  frequently  followed  by  vomiting.  It  lasts  from  ten 
minutes  to  two  hours,  and  generally  ceases  after  the  third 
or  fourth  month.  This  form  of  nausea  is  due  to  the  sym- 
pathy between  the  stomach  and  uterus,  and  is  almost  uni- 
versally present  in  pregnant  women.  As  a  rule  it  is  not 
considered  of  sufficient  importance  to  require  any  special 
treatment,  but  in  some  cases  it  is  so  violent  and  obstinate 
that  no  food  can  be  retained  on  the  stomach,  and  the 
patient  may  become  exhausted  from  actual  starvation,  or 
premature  labor  may  be  brought  on  by  the  violent  retching. 

16 


242  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

When  the  vomiting  continues  after  the  fourth  month, 
it  is  due  to  the  pressure  of  the  enlarged  womb  upon  the 
stomach,  and  is  as  a  rule  difficult  to  relieve. 

Treatment. —  It  is  always  important  that  the  bowels 
should  be  kept  regular  and  all  acidity  of  the  stomach  cor- 
rected. Both  these  can  be  accomplished  by  taking  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  Husband's  magnesia,  stirred  into 
half  a  goblet  of  water,  on  first  awaking  in  the  morning. 
Then  a  cup  of  strong  coffee  and  a  slice  of  toast  should  be 
taken  by  the  patient  while  in  bed,  after  which  she  should 
remain  in  bed  for  an  hour,  and  sleep,  if  possible.  Such 
management  will  prevent  subsequent  nausea  or  vomiting 
in  mild  cases. 

When  the  nausea  is  more  persistent,  I  find  good  re- 
sults from  the  use  of  five  grains  of  ingluvin,  after  the  cof- 
fee and  toast  taken  in  bed,  and  immediately  after  each 
meal.  This  not  only  corrects  the  nausea  and  vomiting, 
but  is  also  a  great  aid  to  digestion.  It  can  be  put  up  by 
the  druggist  in  five  grain  powders,  or  in  capsules,  ready  for 
use.  For  those  who  can  swallow  the  capsules,  it  is  the 
pleasantest  way  to  take  the  medicine. 

In  the  more  obstinate  cases  the  tincture  of  gelsemium, 
or  yellow  jessamine,  may  be  given  in  doses  of  five  drops 
every  half-hour  till  four  or  five  doses  are  taken,  and  no 
food  should  be  taken  for  an  hour  after  the  last  dose.  In 
procuring  this  medicine,  ask  for  the  tincture  of  the  fresh 
root  of gelsemium ,  and  use  no  other.  The  i ngluvin  should 
be  continued  after  meals,  in  all  cases.  Minute  quantities 
of  food  given  every  hour,  is  the  plan  recommended  by  some 
writers,  but  my  experience  leads  me  to  the  very  opposite 
plan.  I  have  often  found  that  a  pint  of  milk,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  lime-water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  good 


DISORDERS    OF    PREGNANCY.  243 

whisky,  would  be  retained  when  small  quantities  would  be 
immediately  rejected.  The  larger  quantity  separates  the 
walls  of  the  stomach,  and  gives  the  organ  something  to 
work  on. 

Too  much  stress  cannot  be  laid  on  the  importance 
of  exercise  and  the  proper  methods  of  dress.  Perfect 
freedom  from  pressure  around  the  waist  and  over  the 
stomach  and  abdomen,  and  long  walks  in  the  open  airr 
will  not  only  relieve  morning  sickness,  but  will,  I  believe, 
prevent  it  entirely.  It  is  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  the 
pregnant  woman  is  an  invalid  of  necessity,  and  I  firmly 
believe  that  morning  sickness  would  soon  be  unknown  if 
women  were  taught  how  to  dress,  took  proper  exercise, 
and  did  not  look  for  nausea  and  vomiting  to  occur  as  a 
natural  sequence  of  pregnancy. 

HEARTBURN. — Heartburn  is  a  distressing  symptom 
that  may  occur  at  any  stage  of  pregnancy.  It  is  a  heat  or 
burning  sensation  in  the  stomach,  which  extends  upward 
along  the  oesophagus,*  and  occasions  eructations  into  the 
mouth  of  a  scalding,  sour  and  bitter  fluid.  It  arises  from 
an  acid  condition  of  the  stomach,  and  is  known  to  be 
most  severe  in  persons  subjected  to  mental  emotions.  It 
is  properly  only  a  symptom  of  indigestion,  and  is  never 
present  except  when  the  food  is  not  properly  digested. 
The  term  is  a  popular  one,  and,  as  it  has  no  connection 
with  the  heart,  it  is  clearly  a  misnomer,  which  has  been 
retained  because  of  its  widespread  use. 

Treatment. — Temporary  relief  can  be  obtained  by 
half-teaspoonful  doses  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia, 
taken  in  a  wineglassful  of  water,  or  ten  grains  of  bicarbon- 
ate of  potash,  in  the  same  quantity  of  water.      If  the   pot- 

*  The  canal  leading  from  the  mouth  to  the  stomach. 


244  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

ash  be  taken  half  an  hour  before  each  meal,  it  will,  in  a 
great  measure,  correct  the  acidity  that  causes  the  heart- 
burn Care  must  also  be  taken  to  keep  the  bowels  regu- 
lar, and,  with  the  view  of  overcoming  the  dyspepsia,  the 
following  should  be  used:  Elixir  pepsin,  bismuth  and 
strychnine,  six  ounces.  Dose:  A  teaspoonful  immedi- 
ately after  each  meal. 

Salivation.  —  Salivation,  or  an  excessive  flow  of 
saliva,  frequently  occurs  during  the  early  months  of  preg- 
nancy. It  is  free  from  the  fetor  of  the  breath  and  ten- 
derness of  the  gums  which  is  present  in  salivation  from 
the  use  of  mercury.  It,  however,  leaves  an  unpleasant 
taste  in  the  mouth,  which  often  causes  vomiting.  It  is 
also  due  to  acidity  of  the  stomach,  and  is  only  a  symptom 
of  indigestion  which  is  only  occasionally  met  with  in  preg- 
nancy. 

Treatment. — The  same  general  treatment  as  above 
recommended  for  heartburn,  should  be  resorted  to;  and, 
in  addition,  the  mouth  should  be  washed  several  times  a 
day  with  an  infusion  of  goldenseal.  To  make  this  infu- 
sion, procure  an  ounce  of  crushed  goldenseal  root,  and 
pour  on  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cover  it  up  well,  and 
allow  it  to  simmer  on  the  stove  for  half  an  hour;  then 
strain,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  In  obstinate  cases,  one 
drachm  of  powdered  borax  may  be  added  before  using  it 
to  wash  the  mouth. 

Spasms  or  Cramp  of  the  Stomach. —  Sudden 
spasms  or  cramp  of  the  stomach  are  often  due  to  the  pres- 
ence in  the  stomach  of  some  undigested  food,  or  may  come 
on  after  great  mental  emotion  or  exposure  to  cold.  An 
attack  may  come  on  suddenly,  last  for  a  short  time,  and 
then  pass  off  and  never  recur.      On  the  other  hand,  they 


DISORDERS    OF   PREGNANCY.  245 

sometimes  come  on  frequently;  violent  neuralgic  pains 
dart  from  the  stomach  through  to  the  back;  and  disten- 
tion of  the  stomach  and  flatulence  occur. 

Treatment. — For  a  transient  attack,  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  good  brandy  or  whisky  will  usually  stimu- 
late the  stomach  sufficiently  to  carry  the  undigested  food 
out  of  the  stomach.  Hot  fomentations  of  hops,  a  hot- 
water  bag,  or  a  mustard  plaster,  applied  over  the  stomach, 
will  be  of  great  service,  and  sometimes  relief  can  be  has- 
tened by  moving  the  bowels  by  an  enema  of  soap-suds. 

When  these  attacks  occur  frequently,  they  indicate 
confirmed  dyspepsia,  and  should  be  treated  accordingly. 
The  diet  should  be  light  and  nutritious,  stimulants  should 
be  avoided,  and  the  bowels  should  be  kept  regular.  One 
compound podophyllin  pill  should  be  given  every  night  at 
bedtime  till  the  bowels  are  inclined  to  move  more  than 
once  a  day,  and  the  elixir  pepsin,  bismuth  and  strychnine 
should  be  given  in  teaspoonful  doses,  immediately  after 
each  meal.  When  the  neuralgic  pains  are  severe,  they 
may  be  relieved  by  five  drops  of  tincture  of  yellozv  jessa- 
mine, repeated  every  half-hour,  till  relieved,  or  till  five  or 
six  doses  are  taken. 

Constipation. —  Constipation  is  one  of  the  most  fre- 
quent and  troublesome  disorders  of  pregnancy,  and  is 
always  to  be  dreaded,  because  it  is  liable  to  occasion  piles 
and  to  produce  miscarriage.  It  is  due  to  sedentary  habits, 
derangements  of  digestion  and  the  compression  of  the 
rectum  by  the  enlarged  womb.  It  gives  rise  to  dizziness 
and  a  sense  of  fullness  of  the  head,  headache,  colicky 
pains,  nausea,  discharges  of  bloody  mucus  from  the 
womb,  nervous  irritability,  sleeplessness,  and,  during  the 
last  two  months   of  pregnancy,  false  pains  that  resemble 


246  •  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

those  of  labor.     If  the  bowels  do  not  move  once  in  twenty- 
four  hours,  they  should  be  attended  to  without  delay. 

Treatment. —  Here,  again,  the  importance  of  exercise 
must  be  insisted  on.  A  good  walk  once  or  twice  a  day, 
with  proper  attention  to  diet,  will  almost  invariably  insure 
against  constipation,  and  this  can  be  continued  till  labor- 
pains  begin,  except  in  cases  of  threatened  miscarriage. 
Persons  of  a  constipated  habit  should  not  eat  pastry,  pud- 
dings, dried  or  salted  meats  or  fish,  potatoes,  white  bread, 
rice,  corn,  spices,  pickles  or  poultry;  while  cracked 
wheat,  oatmeal,  graham  bread,  gluten  bread,  ripe  fruits 
in  season,  stewed  dried  fruits,  dried  figs,  onions,  tomatoes, 
spinach,  celery,  raw  oysters,  and  game,  together  with  milk, 
eggs,  fresh  fish  and  fresh  meats,  will  tend  to  keep  the 
bowels  regular.  A  habit  of  going  to  stool  at  a  fixed  time, 
immediately  after  breakfast  being  the  best  time,  will  often 
prove  of  great  advantage  in  preventing  constipation.  If 
exercise  and  attention  to  diet  fail  to  give  relief,  the  best 
medicine  that  can  be  used  is  compound  syrup  of  rhubarb 
and  potash,  or  neutralizing  cordial ',  as  it  is  commonly' 
called.  This  compound  is  laxative,  antacid  and  tonic,  and 
is  therefore  specially  applicable  to  the  treatment  of  the 
constipation  of  pregnancy.  It  can  be  given  in  table- 
spoonful  doses  every  hour  till  the  desired  effect  is  pro- 
duced. When  the  tongue  is  coated  with  a  dirty  white  or 
brownish  coating,  it  indicates  a  torpid  liver,  which  is 
best  relieved  by  the  following:  Podophyllin,  3  grains; 
aloin,  2  grains;  extract  hyoscyamus,  3  grains;  extract 
nux  vomica,  2  grains.  Mix,  and  make  twelve  pills. 
Dose:  One  pill  at  bedtime.  This  pill  stimulates  the 
action  of  the  liver,  and  throws  the  bile  into  the  intestine, 
and  the  bile  causes  the  natural  action  of  the  bowels.      One 


DISORDERS   OF    PREGNANCY.  247 

pill  should  be  taken  every  night  till  the  constipation  is 
relieved,  and  then  every  second  or  third  night,  as  required. 
This  pill  does  not  gripe  or  act  as  a  physic,  nor  is  its  use 
followed  by  increased  constipation,  as  is  usually  the  case 
with  ordinary  cathartics,  and  it  can  be  taken  with  perfect 
safety.  When  the  rectum  is  filled  with  impacted  fecal 
matter,  an  enema  should  be  used.  For  this  purpose  a 
pint  of  tepid  soap-suds,  to  which  is  added  an  ounce 
of  castor  oil,  should  be  slowly  forced  into  the  rectum, 
and  held  as  long  as  possible.  If  the  feces  be  not  dis- 
charged with  the  water,  the  enema  should  be  repeated, 
and,  should  this  fail  to  give  relief,  a  physician  should  be 
consulted,  as  the  impacted  mass  sometimes  requires  to  be 
removed  by  mechanical  means.  In  no  case«  should  pow- 
erful cathartics  be  taken,  as  they  are  apt  to  cause  mis- 
carriage. 

After  the  seventh  month  diet,  exercise  and  enemas 
should  be  depended  on,  as  medicines  may  tend  to  produce 
premature  labor. 

DiARRHCEA. —  Diarrhoea  may  result  from  the  pressure 
of  the  uterus  on  the  intestines,  from  intestinal  irritation 
resulting  from  impaired  digestion  or  errors  in  diet,  or  from 
previous  constipation. 

Treatment. —  The  diet  should  be  light,  and  should  be 
the  oppositeof  that  recommended  forconstipation.  Boiled 
milk,  boiled  rice,  arrowroot,  etc.,  will  be  found  grateful 
and  beneficial.  The  compound  syrup  of  rhubarb  and  pot- 
ash should  be  given  in  tablespoonful  doses  till  the  intes- 
tines are  cleared  of  all  undigested  food,  and  then  the  fol- 
lowing will  be  found  almost  a  specific:  Fluid  extract  of 
prickly  ash  berries,  y2  ounce;  sirup  wild  cherry  bark,  2^ 
ounces.      Mix,  and  take  one  teaspoonful  every  half-hour  till 


248  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

relieved.  If  the  case  becomes  severe,  and  is  attended  with 
much  pain,  a  physician  should  be  sent  for  without  delay, 
and  opium  or  morphine  should  never  be  taken  without  the 
advice  of  a  physician,  and  even  then  its  use  should  not  be 
continued  long.  In  all  cases  quiet  should  be  observed  dur- 
ing the  attack. 

Hemorrhoids,  or  Piles. — Piles  are  often  present 
during  pregnancy,  and  may  be  caused  by  the  pressure  of 
the  enlarged  womb,  by  constipation,  by  torpid  liver,  or  they 
may  result  from  a  constitutional  weakness  of  the  veins. 

Treatment. — The  constipation  and  torpid  liver  should 
be  relieved  as  before  described,  and  warm  sitz-baths  should 
be  used  twice  a  day.  Sometimes  great  relief  is  obtained 
by  pouring  boiling  water  on  tarred  oakum,  and  sitting  over 
the  steam  for  half  an  hour.  As  a  local  application  the  fol- 
lowing will  give  temporary  relief  in  even  the  worst  cases: 
Extract  of  conium,  10  grains;  tannic  acid,  12  grains; 
extract  of  belladonna,  6  grains;  vaseline,  1  ounce.  Mix 
thoroughly,  and  apply  to  the  piles  as  far  in  as  possible,  two 
or  three  times  a  day. 

All  treatments  are  only  palliative  during  pregnancy, 
and  after  delivery  the  trouble  will  frequently  disappear. 
If  it  should  still  remain,  it  will  be  a  source  of  continual 
annoyance,  and,  if  neglected,  will  become  serious.  All  such 
cases  should  be  operated  on  for  a  radical  cure.  The  opera- 
tion is  both  simple  and  harmless,  and  will  insure  against 
further  annoyance  and  suffering,  even  during  subsequent 
pregnancies. 

Pruritus,  or  Itching.  —  An  intense  itching  of  the 
genitals,  which  often  extends  over  the  integument  of  the 
abdomen,  occurs  in  some  women  during  the  early  stages 
of  pregnancy,  and  is  usually  very  distressing.      It  may  be 


DISORDERS    OF   PREGNANCY.  249 

caused  by  acrid  discharges  from  the  vagina,  or  from  the 
lack  of  frequent  bathings,  but  its  cause  is  often  un- 
known. 

Treatment.  —  Frequent  bathing  of  the  parts  is  of  the 
first  importance  in  the  treatment  of  pruritus.  If  an  acrid 
discharge  from  the  vagina  exist,  an  injection  of  the  infu- 
sion of  goldenseal  (one  ounce  to  a  pint  of  boiling  water),  in 
which  one  drachm  of  powdered  borax  is  dissolved,  should 
be  used  night  and  morning,  and  the  surrounding  skin  should 
be  bathed  with  a  saturated  solution  of  borax.  If  the 
parts  are  red  and  chafed,  the  following  should  be  used: 
Salicylic  acid,  10  grains;  vaseline,  1  ounce.  Mix,  and 
apply  as  an  ointment  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

Vertigo  and  Fainting.  —  Vertigo  and  fainting  are 
not  infrequently  met  with  in  the  pregnant  state.  The 
vertigo,  or  dizziness,  may  only  last  a  few  moments,  it  may 
occasion  dimness  of  vision  for  a  short  time,  or  it  may 
extend  to  complete  syncope,  or  fainting.  These  condi- 
tions may  result  from  debility,  extreme  nervousness,  or  a 
determination  of  blood  to  the  brain,  with  stoppage  of  the 
circulation.  Both  vertigo  and  fainting  usually  come  on 
while  standing,  or  on  rising  suddenly,  but  do  not  last  long, 
and  are  seldom  serious. 

Treatment.  —  The  recumbent  position  should  be  taken 
at  once,  and  a  current  of  cool  air  should  be  secured  by 
opening  a  door  or  window,  or  by  the  use  of  a  fan.  Cold 
water  should  be  dashed  in  the  face,  and  ammonia  applied 
to  the  nose.  If  the  extremities  are  cold,  friction  should 
be  applied  to  them,  and  along  the  spine.  As  soon  as  the 
patient  can  swallow,  give  half  a  teaspoonful  of  aromatic 
spirits  of  ammonia,  in  a  mouthful  of  water,  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  good  brandy  or  whisky.      When   these  condi- 


250  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

tions  recur  frequently,  a  physician  should  be  consulted,  as 
they  are  apt  to  cause  premature  labor. 

Palpitation  of  the  Heart. —  Palpitation  of  the 
heart,  though  not  a  dangerous  symptom,  is  distressing, 
and  often  occasions  much  alarm.  It  may  occur  during 
any  stage  of  pregnancy,  and  is  caused  by  dyspepsia,  flatu- 
lence, mental  excitement,  or  sympathetic  nervous  irrita- 
tion, and  obstinate  constipation. 

Treatment. —  During  an  attack  of  palpitation,  quiet  in 
the  sitting  posture  should  be  observed,  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  aromatic  spirits  of  ammonia,  in  half  a  wine- 
glassful  of  water,  should  be  taken.  Neutralizing  cordial 
should  be  taken  in  tablespoonful  doses,  repeated  every 
hour,  to  relieve  constipation  and  correct  acidity.  When 
the  trouble  is  not  associated  with  constipation  or  dis- 
ordered digestion,  the  compound  syrup  of  partridge  berry 
will  be  found  valuable  in  relieving  nervous  irritation,  and 
preventing  the  recurrence  of  the  trouble.  It  should  be 
given  in  doses  of  four  tablespoonfuls  three  or  four  times  a 
day.  If  the  patient  is  weak  and  debilitated,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  dialyzed  iron,  in  a  little  water,  should  be  taken 
after  each  meal.  When  the  palpitation  is  persistent,  a 
physician  should  always  be  called. 

Swelling  of  the  Feet  and  Legs.— Bloating  or 
swelling  of  the  feet  and  legs  may  be  due  to  a  sluggish  cir- 
culation caused  by  pressure  of  the  enlarged  womb  upon 
the  veins  of  the  abdomen,  and  is  met  with  most  generally 
in  the  latter  months  of  pregnancy.  In  severe  cases  the 
serum,  or  watery  portion  of  the  blood,  oozes  through  the 
blood-vessels  and  is  deposited  in  the  tissues,  thus  causing 
dropsy  of  the  extremities.  When  this  bloated  condition 
extends  to  the   abdomen,   the   upper  extremities   and  the 


DISORDERS    OF    PREGNANCY.  25 1 

face,  it  indicates  a  congestion  of  the  kidneys  which  may 
develop  into  Bright's  disease. 

Treatment. — When  proper  exercise  and  plenty  of  fresh 
air  are  enjoyed,  together  with  correct  digestion  and  regu- 
larity of  the  bowels,  simple  bloating  is  not  likely  to  occur. 
Rest  in  the  recumbent  position  with  the  feet  elevated  some- 
what, will  promptly  relieve  the  swelling.  When  the  bloat- 
ing becomes  general,  the  urine  should  be  examined  for 
albumen,  and,  if  found,  the  physician  should  at  once  direct 
his  attention  to  the  proper  treatment  of  the  kidneys,  so  as 
to  prevent  general  dropsy,  convulsions,  death  of  the  foetus, 
and  possibly  death  of  the  mother.  An  experienced  phy- 
sician, when  consulted  in  time,  can  prevent  these  serious 
results  by  proper  treatment. 

Varicose  Veins.  —  Varicose  veins  consist  of  a 
marked  enlargement  of  the  veins  of  the  legs,  which 
become  twisted  in  their  course  as  a  result  of  the  enlarge- 
ment. They  are  caused  by  pressure  of  the  enlarged  womb, 
and  are  more  commonly  met  with  in  women  who  have  had 
a  number  of  children.  When  only  the  small  veins  are 
involved,  they  occasion  little  or  no  trouble;  but,  when  the 
condition  extends  to  the  large  veins,  they  become  very 
painful. 

Treatment. —  The  treatment  in  these  cases  can  only 
be  palliative.  After  exercise  the  patient  should  assume 
the  recumbent  position,  with  the  hips  and  feet  elevated 
higher  than  the  shoulders.  The  legs  should  then  be  gently 
rubbed  upward  to  favor  the  return  of  the  blood  to  the 
trunk.  The  bowels  should  be  kept  regular,  and  properly 
fitting  elastic  stockings  should  be  worn  to  keep  the  veins 
from  further  enlargement,  and  to  prevent  them  from  rup- 
turing.     No  surgical  interference  should  be  attempted  till 


252  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

after  confinement,  and  should  they  still  continue  trouble- 
some, a  surgeon  should  be  consulted. 

Burning  of  the  Feet. —  Many  women  of  extremely 
nervous  temperaments  suffer  from  an  intense  burning  sen- 
sation of  the  feet,  which  is  often  relieved  by  bathing  them 
several  times  a  day  in  water  as  hot  as  ,can  be  borne. 
When  this  fails  to  give  relief,  they  should  be  bathed  in 
strong  peppermint  water. 

Muscular  Cramps. —  Cramps  of  the  legs  are  caused 
by  the  pressure  of  the  enlarged  womb  upon  the  nerves 
that  supply  the  lower  extremities.  They  occur  most  fre- 
quently in  women  who  take  no  exercise. 

Treatment. —  Plenty  of  fresh  air  and  exercise  are  of 
the  first  importance  to  prevent  muscular  cramps.  The 
bowels  should  be  kept  regular,  and  only  easily  digested 
food  should  be  used.  Friction  should  be  applied  over 
the  part  affected,  and  frequent  change  of  position  should 
be  secured.  After  walking,  the  recumbent  position,  with 
the  hips  and  legs  elevated,  will  often  prevent  the  recurrence 
of  the  cramps.  Camphor  liniment  may  be  freely  rubbed 
on  the  parts  with  advantage.  Persons  who  suffer  from 
frequent  recurrences  of  cramps,  will  find  great  relief  from 
the  following  mixture,  recommended  by  Prof.  John  King, 
M.  D.  High  cranberry  bark,  I  ounce;  skullcap  leaves 
and  skunk  cabbage  root,  each  )/2  ounce;  capsicum  and 
cardamom  seeds,  each  2  drachms.  Crush  the  articles, 
and  macerate  for  two  or  three  days  in  a  quart  of  Angelica 
wine.     The  dose  is  a  teaspoonful  three  or  four  times  a  day. 

Headache. — Headache  is  of  frequent  occurrence 
during  all  stages  of  pregnancy  and  among  all  classes  of 
women.  The  pain  may  be  located  in  the  back  of  the 
head,  on  the  top,  through  the  temples,  over  one  eye,  or 


DISORDERS    OF   PREGNANCY.  253 

through  the  eyeball,  or  it  may  extend  generally  over  the 
whole  head.  It  may  be  acute,  and  sometimes  of  a  beat- 
ing, throbbing  character,  or  it  may  be  dull  and  heavy.  It 
is  usually  due  to  some  derangement  of  the  digestion,  but 
mental  emotion,  exhaustion  from  fatigue,  the  excessive 
use  of  stimulants  and  coitus  may  also  produce  it.  A 
minute  description  of  the  various  kinds  of  headache  would 
take  up  much  space,  and  yet  serve  no  practical  purpose  in 
a  popular  work.  It  is  sufficient  to  suggest  the  treatment 
best  adapted  for  the  relief  of  the  different  kinds  of  pain  in 
the  head  that  receive  the  name  of  headache.  The  differ- 
ent forms  of  headache  are  simply  symptoms  of  a  variety  of 
diseases,  and  can  only  be  properly  understood  in  connec- 
tion with  the  derangements  that  give  rise  to  them.  When 
met  with  during  pregnancy,  the  sufferer  can  often  relieve 
the  symptom,  though  the  condition  that  gives  rise  to  it 
may  continue  till  after  parturition. 

Treatment.  —  No  simple  and  uniform  treatment  can 
be  laid  down  for  the  relief  of  all  kinds  of  headache,  but 
experience  has  demonstrated  that  antipyrine  will  relieve 
more  headaches  than  any  other  remedy;  so  that,  in  the 
absence  of  positive  knowledge  as  to  the  cause  of  the  head- 
ache, ten  grains  of  antipyrine  may  be  taken  in  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and  repeated  at  intervals  of  half, 
an  hour  till  three  or  four  doses  are  taken,  if  required.  As 
a  rule,  two  or  three  doses  will  relieve  the  severest  head- 
ache, and  one  dose  will  frequently  do  so.  This  remedy 
is  specially  useful  in  the  headaches  that  occur  during  the 
early  months  of  pregnancy.  After  taking  the  medicine, 
it  is  best  to  lie  down  and  sleep,  if  possible.  Should  con- 
stipation exist,  it  should  be  overcome  by  the  remedies 
heretofore  recommended.      Plethoric  or  full-blooded  per- 


254  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

sons  are  most  likely  to  have  headaches  during  the  latter 
months  of  pregnancy,  and,  when  such  persons  are  afflicted, 
the  antipyrine  will  not  always  give  relief.  Here  the  blood- 
vessels of  the  brain  become  congested,  the  face  flushed, 
and  the  pain  increased  by  the  recumbent  position.  A  hot 
foot-bath  should  be  taken,  mustard  should  be  applied  at  the 
nape  of  the  neck,  and  tincture  of  yellow  jessamine  should 
be  given,  in  five-drop  doses,  every  half-hour  till  relieved,  or 
till  five  or  six  doses  are  taken.  If  these  headaches  are 
recurrent  a  one-grain  ergotin  pill  should  be  given  three  or 
four  times  a  day  during  the  interim.  This  contracts  the 
small  vessels  of  the  brain,  and  forces  out  the  sluggish  blood 
lodged  therein. 

Those  who  are  much  debilitated  from  any  cause  will 
find  that  their  headaches  are  promptly  relieved  by  an 
ounce  of  good  whisky,  taken  when  the  stomach  is  empty. 
If  one  dose  does  not  relieve  it,  it  is  useless  to  repeat  it. 
Whisky  is  also  good  in  cases  of  neuralgic  headache. 

If  the  headaches  are  not  relieved  by  the  above  treat- 
ment, a  physician  should  be  consulted,  as  other  conditions 
may  be  present  to  give  rise  to  the  headache,  that  might 
become  serious  if  neglected. 

TOOTHACHE. — Toothache  is  often  an  annoying  condi- 
tion with  pregnant  women,  and  generally  occasions  intense 
suffering.  The  woman  who  desires  to  be  a  mother,  should 
see  to  it  that  all  her  teeth  are  in  good  condition  before 
conception.  Carious  or  decayed  teeth  should  be  extracted 
unless  they  can  be  properly  filled.  After  conception, 
however,  it  is  not  safe  to  attempt  extraction  of  the  teeth, 
and  it  should  not  be  done  except  in  extreme  cases. 

Treatment. —  When  cavities  are  found  in  aching  teeth, 
they  should  be  cleansed  with  a  piece  of  absorbent  cotton, 


MRS.   LANGTRY. 


DISORDERS    OF   PREGNANCY.  255 

and  then  filled  as  follows:  Take  a  small  piece  of  absorbent 
cotton,  saturate  it  in  tincture  of  aconite  root,  squeeze  it 
till  the  tincture  does  not  run  from  it,  and  then  pack  it  into 
the  cavity  of  the  tooth,  so  that  it  comes  in  contact  with 
the  exposed  nerve.  The  aconite  benumbs  the  nerve,  and 
thus  eases  the  pain.  Now,  to  effectually  exclude  the  air, 
fill  the  remainder  of  the  cavity,  to  a  level  with  the  surface 
of  the  tooth,  with  white  wax.  This  can  be  packed  in  so 
closely  that  it  will  remain  for  days,  or  even  weeks,  and, 
when  the  air  is  thus  excluded,  the  tooth  will  not  ache. 
Should  the  aching  begin  again,  this  packing  should  be 
removed,  the  cavity  cleansed  and  refilled  the  same  as 
before.  Should  the  pain  continue,  or  affect  all  the  teeth 
on  one  side  of  the  face,  the  treatment  given  below  for 
face-ache  will  give  relief. 

Face-ache,  or  Facial  Neuralgia. — The  fifth  pair 
of  cranial  nerves  spread  out  into  numerous  branches,  and 
supply  the  teeth,  as  well  as  the  muscles  and  skin  of  the 
face.  Neuralgia  of  this  nerve  is  a  common  affection  in 
pregnancy,  and  is  spoken  of  as  face-ache,  facial  neuralgia, 
and  tic-donlonreux.  It  may  commence  in  a  decayed  tooth 
and  then  spread  to  all  the  teeth  and  nerves  of  one-side  of 
the  face.  It  may  also  be  excited  by  exposure  to  cold, 
may  develop  as  one  of  the  results  of  malaria,  or  it  may 
occur  through  sympathetic  nervous  action,  from  pressure  of 
the  enlarged  womb  on  the  great  sympathetic  nerve. 

Treatment. —  As  a  rule  a  five-grain  quinine  pill  should 
be  taken  three  times  a  day,  after  eating,  and  five  drops  of 
the  tincture  of  yellow  jessamine  every  half-hour  till  the  pain 
is  relieved.  This  can  be  repeated  till  the  eyelids  feel  heavy, 
when  it  should  be  discontinued.  If  the  bowels  are  consti- 
pated, they  should  be   relieved,   and  attention  should  be 


2-56  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

paid  to  the  diet.  Sometimes,  if  the  patient  is  weak,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  good  whisky  in  half  a  goblet  of  milk  will 
promptly  relieve  the  pain.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  use 
morphine  or  opium  in  any  form.  Though  it  will  promptly 
relieve  the  pain,  it  does  not  cure,  and  it  is  sure  to  injure 
both  the  foetus  and  the  patient. 

Insomnia. —  Insomnia,  or  sleeplessness,  is  often  a 
troublesome  complication  during  the  last  months  of  preg- 
nancy, and,  when  not  relieved,  it  renders  a  woman  less  able 
to  withstand  the  pains  of  labor  than  if  she  enjoys  natural 
sleep  to  the  last. 

Treatment. — Exercise  in  the  open  air,  simple  and 
nutritious  diet,  and  regularity  of  the  bowels  should  be 
looked  to  from  the  first.  Bathing  the  feet  in  hot  water, 
and  eating  a  light  supper  before  going  to  bed,  will  often 
determine  the  blood  from  the  head  and  thus  insure  sleep. 
Massage  or  magnetism  may  also  be  employed  with  advan- 
tage. All  such  means  should  be  tried  before  resorting 
to  the  use  of  drugs. 

Opiates  should  never  be  used,  but  bromide  of  soda 
may  be  given  in  doses  of  twenty  grains,  in  water,  after 
each  meal  and  at  bedtime,  for  two  or  three  days.  As 
soon  as  sleep  is  secured,  the  medicine  should  be  discon- 
tinued. A  pill  of  one  grain  of  extract  of  hyoscyamus 
every  night  at  bedtime,  is  harmless  andean  often  be  used 
with  advantage. 

Mania,  or  Insanity. — Women  of  a  nervous  temper- 
ament, who  are  subject  to  hysterical  attacks,  and  those 
predisposed  to  insanity,  often  manifest  symptoms  of 
mania  during  pregnancy.  These  symptoms  may  come  on 
immediately  after  conception,  or  at  any  period  during 
pregnancy.     They   manifest  themselves  in    a    variety  of 


DISORDERS    OF    PREGNANCY.  257 

ways,  which  cannot  fail  to  attract  attention.  Sometimes 
the  patient  becomes  very  melancholy,  seeks  solitude, 
thinks  she  is  going  to  die,  will  not  eat,  and  even  neglects 
her  personal  appearance.  She  will  often  take  an  unreason- 
able dislike  to  her  husband,  mother,  children  or  other 
friend,  and  consider  herself  badly  treated,  and  declare 
they  want  to  poison  her  or  drive  her  from  the  house. 
After  these  symptoms  are  noticed,  a  physician  should  be 
consulted  at  once,  as  she  may  become  violent  at  any 
moment,  and  do  herself  or  others  bodily  harm.  She 
will  often  be  entirely  "  out  of  her  mind,"  and  after  con- 
finement will  have  no  recollection  of  what  has  happened. 

It  is  useless  to  lay  down  any  line  of  treatment  for 
this  condition,  as  the  experienced  physician  must  deter- 
mine that  in  each  individual  case.  The  mania  that  develops 
just  before  or  immediately  after  confinement,  and  known 
as  puerperal  mania,  will  be  described  in  full  in  a  subse- 
quent chapter. 

Disorders  of  the  Bladder. — Sometimes  there  is 
an  irritation  of  the  neck  of  the  bladder  from  pressure, 
which  causes  a  frequent  desire  to  urinate  that  may  become 
annoying.  This  occurs  during  the  early  stages  of  preg- 
nancy, and  again  during  the  last  two  weeks. 

Sometimes  the  kidneys  and  the  ureters  *  are  affected 
by  a  spasmodic  action,  due  to  nervous  sympathy,  which 
occasions  severe  pain  along  the  groin,  and  a  suppression  of 
the  urine,  though  the  desire  to  pass  it  is  increased. 

Again,  the  quantity  of  urine  passed,  gradually 
decreases,  and  it  is  filled  with  a  whitish  substance  that  set- 
tles to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel  upon  standing.  This  indi- 
cates the  presence   of  albumen,    which  is    almost  always 

*  Canals  leading  from  the  kidneys  to  the  bladder. 


258  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

present  in  the  urine  of  pregnant  women ;  but,  when  it 
becomes  excessive,  it  becomes  a  serious  matter.  This 
condition  is  always  present  before  mania  develops,  and,  if 
not  the  cause,  it  aggravates  puerperal  mania  and  puerperal 
convulsions,  and  may  result  in  Bright's  disease,  and  cause 
death  by  ursemic  poisoning  and  the  resulting  coma. 

Treatment.  —  The  frequent  desire  to  urinate  is  relieved 
by  the  recumbent  position  on  the  back,  and  the  use  of  the 
sitz-bath.  The  flow  of  urine  can  be  increased  by  making 
a  strong  tea  of  marsh-mallow  root,  and  drinking  ateacup- 
ful  with  10  grains  of  acetate  of  potash  added  every  two  or 
three  hours.  The  irritation  may  be  relieved  by  the  follow- 
ing: Fluid  extract  of  bearberry,  2  ounces;  fluid  extract  of 
black  cohosh,  I  ounce;  glycerine,  enough  to  make  6 
ounces.  Mix,  and  take  a  teaspoonful  after  each  meal 
and  at  bedtime. 

For  the  pain  in  the  groin  and  the  suppression  of  the 
urine,  add  five  drops  of  tincture  of  yellow  jessamine  to  each 
teacupful  of  the  marsh  mallow  tea,  recommended  above, 
and  repeat  the  dose  every  half-hour  till  five  or  six  doses 
are  taken. 

When  the  quantity  of  the  urine  has  gradually  increased 
and  a  white  sediment  is  noticed,  it  should  be  sent  to  the 
physician  to  be  examined  for  albumen.  The  quantity  of 
albumen  present,  and  its  appearance  under  the  microscope, 
will  determine  the  treatment  to  be  followed,  and  the  direc- 
tions of  the  physician  should  be  implicitly  obeyed. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

MOTHERHOOD  —  Continued. 

Painless  Childbirth  —  Natural  Labor  and  Its  Management  —  Difficult 
Labor  —  Preternatural  Labor — Complicated  Labor — Attentions 
After  Labor — Diseases  Following  Labor — Accidents  of  Labor 
—  Miscarriage  and  Premature  Labor — Pre-natal  Impressions  and 
Mother's  Marks. 

WHILE  many  of  the  disorders  described  in  the  pre- 
ceding chapter  are  frequently  met  with  during  the  period 
of  pregnancy,  yet  no  woman  suffers  from  all;  and,  in 
many  cases,  they  are  escaped  altogether.  As  before 
stated,  some  women  enjoy  the  most  perfect  health  during 
the  whole  period  of  pregnancy,  but  this  is  the  exception, 
and  not  the  rule,  under  our  present  civilization.  So  com- 
mon have  become  the  disorders  of  pregnancy,  and  so 
severe  the  pains  of  childbirth,  as  a  rule,  that  young  wives 
have  come  to  look  upon  the  possibilities  of  motherhood 
with  dread.  Is  this  natural?  and,  if  not,  how  is  it  so  uni- 
versal?    Let  us  inquire  and  find  an  answer  if  possible. 

PAINLESS    CHILDBIRTH. 

Is  pain  during  childbirth  necessary?  I  answer  that 
child-bearing  is  as  much  a  natural  function  as  any  func- 
tion of  the  body,  and,  when  healthy,  it  should  be  free 
from  pain  and  sickness.  Physiologists  tell  us  that  healthy 
function  is  unattended  with  pain,  and  that  all  pain  is  the 
result  of  some  violation  of  natural  law;  consequently,  if 
the  perpetuation  of  our  race  is  the  natural  function  of 
women,  childbirth  should  be  free  from  pain  and  danger. 


260  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  the  lower  animals  suffer 
very  little  in  bringing  forth  their  young,  and  that  among 
savages  comparatively  no  pain  is  experienced.  It  is  also 
the  verdict  of  those  who  have  had  opportunities  for  observa- 
tion, that  in  the  days  of  slavery  in  America  the  slave-women 
had  but  little  pain,  required  little  or  no  attention  during 
confinement,  and  were  only  detained  from  their  work  a 
few  hours  thereby.  The  same  is  true  of  the  peasant 
women  of  Germany,  France  and  Italy. 

Dr.  John  H.  Dye,  in  his  valuable  little  book,  "  Pain- 
less Childbirth,"  writes  as  follows: 

"Among  the  poorer  classes,  i.  e.y  those  who  are 
robust,  but  compelled  to  depend  upon  their  daily  toil  for 
the  necessaries  of  life  —  the  plainest  food — to  whom 
luxury  is  a  stranger,  we  often  find  the  labor  easy  and 
speedy,  and  often  with  no  attendant,  except  perhaps  the 
husband  or  a  little  girl —  not  even  a  midwife — the  woman 
gives  birth,  and  in  a  few  hours  resumes  her  usual  duties. 

"  It  is  generally  known  among  the  American  Indians 
that  the  avocations  of  the  squaw  are  seldom,  if  ever,  inter- 
rupted by  an  inconvenience  from  pregnancy  or  labor. 
My  brother-in-law,  Dr.  S.  T.  Baker,  who  has  spent  many 
years  on  the  western  frontier  among  the  Indians,  where  he 
had  excellent  opportunities  to  observe  and  acquaint  him- 
self with  their  habits,  informs  me  that  a  pregnant  squaw 
does  not  occasion  any  concern  to  her  companions.  She 
performs  the  usual  drudgery  of  her  life  up  to  the  very  hour 
of  her  labor,  making  no  preparation  for  the  coming  '  pa- 
poose.' When  she  realizes  that  the  hour  for  delivery  is  at 
hand,  she  enters  her  cabin,  or  betakes  herself  to  some 
stream  or  spring,  gives  birth,  washes  the  young  '  Injun  ' 
in  the  cold  water,  straps  it  upon  her  back,  and  before  she 


PAINLESS    CHILDBIRTH,  26 1 

has  been  scarcely  missed  at  all,  has  returned  a  full-fledged 
mother,  and  resumes  her  labors  unconscious  of  having  un- 
dergone any  wonderful  ordeal.  If  the  band  to  which  she 
belongs  is  on  a  march  when  she  feels  that  labor  is  upon 
her,  she  leaves  the  trail,  and,  beside  some  brook  or  spring, 
spreads  her  blanket,  is  delivered,  washes  the  infant,  straps 
it  upon  her  back,  mounts  her  pony,  gallops  on  after  the 
rest,  whom  she  overtakes  after  one  or  two  hours' absence. 
If  they  experience  any  of  the  annoyances  of  pregnancy 
that  afflict  the  daughters  of  artificial  life,  they  pay  so  little 
attention  to  them  as  to  attract  no  notice  whatever." 

Prof.  Huxley  says,  "  We  are,  indeed,  fully  prepared  to 
believe  that  the  bearing  of  children  may,  and  ought  to  be- 
come, as  free  from  danger  and  disability  to  the  civilized 
woman  as  to  the  savage." 

Dr.  Devvees  concludes,  "  that  pain  in  childbirth  is  a 
morbid  symptom;  that  it  is  a  perversion  of  nature,  caused 
by  modes  of  living  not  consistent  with  the  most  healthy 
condition  of  the  system;  and  that  such  a  regimen  as  should 
insure  such  a  completely  healthy  condition  might  be 
counted  on  with  certainty  to  do  away  with  such  pain." 

Prof.  Pancoast,  in  his  "  Ladies'  Medical  Guide,"  says: 
"  It  is  a  common  belief  that  gestation  is  a  period  of 
disease  and  suffering,  and  that  parturition  is  inevitably  a 
painful  and  dangerous  process.  Now,  the  great  truth  to 
be  learned  is,  the  reverse  of  such  impressions.  It  is 
just  as  natural  for  a  woman  to  bring  forth  children  as  for  a 
shrub  to  produce  flowers  and  fruit.  In  a  state  of  health 
no  natural  process  is  painful.  Pain,  in  all  cases,  is  a  sign 
of  disease  —  it  has  no  other  significance.  In  its  healthy 
condition,  the  uterus  receives  the  germ  of  a  new  being, 
provides  it  with  proper   nourishment,  expands  to   make 


262  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

room  for  its  development,  and,  at  the  time  appointed  by- 
nature,  dilates  its  opening  and  contracts  —  a  series  of 
involuntary  and  painless  muscular  efforts  —  so  as  to  throw 
the  infant  into  the  new  existence  which  its  growth 
demands.  It  performs  its  own  proper  functions,  just  as 
the  lungs,  the  heart,  or  the  stomach  perform  theirs." 

I  could  quote  many  other  authorities  to  sustain  the 
declaration  that  childbirth  should  be  painless,  but  those 
already  quoted  are  sufficient  to  show  the  character  of  the 
testimony  in  its  favor.  But  the  question  is  often  asked, 
"  Why,  then,  are  pain  and  suffering  so  universally  pres- 
ent? "  I  answer,  because  of  a  false  system  of  education; 
because  of  the  errors  so  common  in  developing  the  child 
during  the  formative  years  of  its  life,  from  infancy  to 
puberty;  because  of  the  lack  of  outdoor  exercise,  which 
can  alone  secure  proper  physical  development;  because  of 
improper  modes  of  dress  from  girlhood,  by  which  the 
ribs  become  compressed  and  deformed,  and  the  various 
organs  crowded  out  of  their  normal  positions;  because  of 
the  excitement  and  frivolities  of  fashionable  life  to  which 
girls  are  subjected  before  they  are  properly  developed,  and 
which  prostrate  their  nervous  energies  and  lay  the  foun- 
dations for  a  series  of  nervous  disorders;  and  because  of 
the  outrages  and  violence  young  married  women  inflict  upon 
themselves,  in  their  desire  to  escape  "  for  a  time  "  the 
duties  of  motherhood. 

For  generations  women  have  deformed  themselves  by 
tight  lacing  and  wearing  heavy  skirts  suspended  from  the 
waists,  till  now,  by  heredity  and  a  gradual  process  of  evo 
lution,  most  women  have  deformed  ribs.  This  naturally 
contracts  the  space  requisite  for  the  full  development  of 
the  pregnant  womb,  and  pressure  must  result.      Again,  the 


PAINLESS     CHILDBIRTH.  263 

dress,  even  when  tight  lacing  is  not  resorted  to,  is  such, 
as  a  rule,  as  to  interfere  with  the  elevation  of  the  ribs, 
which  is  necessary  for  full  respiration,  as  well  as  to  enlarge 
the  abdominal  cavity  for  the  accommodation  of  the 
enlarged  pregnant  womb.  This  adds  to  the  undue  pres- 
sure on  the  womb,  besides  preventing  a  full  supply  of 
oxygen,  so  essential  to  the  development  of  the  fcetus,  and 
the  healthy  growth  of  the  uterus.  Again,  many  pregnant 
women  try  to  hide  their  condition  by  tight  lacing,  as  long 
as  possible,  and  thus  add  to  their  suffering,  not  only  dur- 
ing pregnancy,  but  at  childbirth. 

To  insure  painless  childbirth,  mothers  must  begin 
with  the  babyhood  of  their  daughters,  in  order  that 
women  may  have  perfectly  healthy  organs,  capable  of 
performing  their  normal  functions,  which  must  always  be 
painless.  The  reader  is  referred  to  the  chapters  on 
(i  Babyhood  "  and  "  Childhood  "  for  information  regarding 
normal  physical  development. 

The  women  of  to-day,  however,  can  do  much  to 
prevent  the  disorders  of  pregnancy  and  to  diminish  the 
pangs  of  childbirth.  They  must  begin  by  abandoning 
tight  lacing  and  by  suspending  the  skirts  from  the  shoul- 
ders, so  as  to  relieve  all  pressure  from  the  abdomen  and 
all  constriction  from  the  waist.  This  is  not  incompatible 
with  comfortable  and  stylish  dressing,  and  it  is  a  pleasing 
sign  of  the  times  that  many  women  have  already  begun 
to  move  in  this  reform. 

Young  women  should  live  more  in  the  open  air, 
should  take  regular  and  systematic  exercise,  which  should 
include  walking  and  running.  The  lungs  should  be  fully 
expanded  so  frequently  that  the  largest  possible  lung 
capacity  may  be  secured.     Late  hours  should  be  avoided, 


ft 
264  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

and  the  sleeping  apartment  should  always  be  well  filled 
with  fresh  air.  The  old  idea  that  night  air  is  unhealthy 
and  must  therefore  be  excluded,  is  a  fallacy  that  is  now 
completely  exploded.  Stimulants  of  all  kinds  should 
always  be  avoided,  except  as  a  medicine,  as  they  are 
never  needed,  and  always  do  harm  during  the  period  of 
physical  development. 

After  marriage,  sexual  excess  should  be  carefully 
guarded  against,  and  all  means  of  preventing  conception, 
excepting  the  physiological  one  previously  described,  must 
be  avoided.  A  single  attempt  at  abortion,  even  when 
unsuccessful,  entails  lifelong  suffering  on  the  woman; 
and  those  who  wish  to  be  healthy,  and  free  from  suffering 
during  subsequent  pregnancies,  must  shun  this  vice  as 
they  would  a  viper. 

The  unsought-for  and  unwelcome  child  entails  more 
suffering  on  the  mother  than  the  one  that  is  desired  and 
is  the  result  of  design.  This  is  true  because  conception 
in  one  case  results  from  a  violation  of  the  mother  instinct 
in  woman,  while  in  the  other  it  is  the  result  of  a  natural 
expression  of  healthy  function. 

The  pregnant  woman  should  be  free  from  anxiety  and 
pressing  cares;  should  continue  her  regular  exercise  in  the 
open  air;  should  attend  to  her  usual  duties  in  life,  and  not 
sit  with  folded  hands,  and  feel  that  she  must  of  necessity 
be  an  invalid.  Her  dress  must  be  loose  and  comfortable, 
her  diet  should  be  simple  and  nutritious,  her  bowels  should 
be  kept  regular,  and  she  should  take  a  tepid  sponge-bath 
every  morning,  and  a  warm  bath  once  or  twice  a  week 
before  retiring. 

Coitus  during  pregnancy  should  be  entirely  avoided, 
or  very  rarely  indulged   in,  and  then  only  when  strongly 


PAINLESS    CHILDBIRTH.  265 

desired  by  the  woman.  This  is  much  more  important  than 
is  usually  admitted,  and  man,  with  his  superior  wisdom, 
needs  to  learn  a  lesson  from  the  lower  animals.  To  insure  the 
observance  of  this  rule  the  husband  and  wife  should  occupy 
separate  rooms,  or  at  least  separate  beds.  Some  will  say 
that  this  deprives  man  of  his  marital  rights.  This  is  true, 
if  marriage  is  intended  simply  to  gratify  passion;  but,  if 
its  aim  be  the  perpetuation  of  the  species,  is  not  that  end 
accomplished  at  conception?  and  those  who  would  avoid 
the  pains  of  childbirth  will  find  that  this  is  one  of  the  most 
important  rules  to  follow. 

The  diet  of  the  pregnant  woman  has  an  important 
bearing  on  the  development  of  the  bony  structure  of  the 
foetus,  as  the  calcareous  or  earthy  matters  necessary  for 
hardening  the  bones  must  be  supplied  through  the  food 
of  the  mother.  The  framework  of  the  foetus  is  at  first 
made  up  of  soft  material  called  cartilage,  or  gristle,  but 
prior  to  birth  some  of  the  bones  have  developed  into  true 
bony  tissue,  which  is  much  harder  and  more  unyielding 
than  cartilage.  Now,  it  is  claimed  that  by  abstaining  from 
such  articles  of  food  as  contain  large  quantities  of  earthy 
matter,  the  ossification  or  solidifying  of  the  bones  may 
be  retarded,  so  that  at  birth  the  structure  of  the 
foetus  will  yield  readily,  thus  rendering  the  childbirth 
easier  than  when  the  bones  have  hardened  before  birth. 
Upon  this  theory  a  diet  can  be  selected  that  contains  little 
earthy  matter,  and  thus  immunity  from  pain  is  in  a  meas- 
ure secured. 

To  insure  a  diminution  of  pain  in  childbirth,  the 
pregnant  woman  should  live  largely  on  a  fruit  diet,  as 
fruits  contain  a  very  small  percentage  of  earthy  salts. 
Wheat,  beans,  rye,  oats,  barley,  potatoes,  beef  and  mut- 


266  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

ton  contain  the  largest  percentage  of  these  salts,  and 
hence  all  these  should  be  avoided  as  articles  of  diet.  The 
flesh  of  young  animals,  as  veal  and  lamb,  fowls,  fish,  eggs, 
milk  and  fresh  vegetables  generally,  contain  but  little  of 
these  salts,  and  can  be  added  to  the  fruit  diet.  Water 
contains  considerable  limy  material,  and  should  not  be 
used  without  boiling. 

If  this  course  of  diet  is  generally  followed  from  the 
third  month  of  pregnancy,  there  can  be  no  question  but 
that  the  bones  of  the  child  will  be  undeveloped  and  soft  at 
birth,  and  that  fact  will  render  labor  less  painful  than  it 
would  otherwise  be,  all  else  being  equal.  This  fact,  how- 
ever, is  no  reason  why  women  should  not  aim  to  so  per- 
fect their  own  organizations  as  to  make  it  unnecessary  to 
deprive  their  offspring  of  a  single  element  that  is  essential 
for  the  most  perfect  development. 

Women  who  suffer  much  from  the  disorders  of  preg- 
nancy are  almost  certain  to  have  a  difficult  labor.  All 
such  will  find  great  benefit,  and  many  complete  relief, 
from  the  continued  use  of  the  compound  sirup  of  part- 
ridge berry,  or  mother's  cordial,  taken  in  doses  of  from 
four  to  six  tablespoonfuls,  twice  a  day.  It  is  composed  of 
partridge  berry  vine,  false  unicorn  root,  high  cranberry 
bark,  and  blue  cohosh  root.  The  process  of  preparing  it 
is  somewhat  troublesome,  and  therefore  it  should  be 
made  by  your  druggist.  Be  sure  and  ask  for  mother's 
cordial,  prepared  after  the  formula  in  "  King's  American 
Dispensatory." 

NATURAL    LABOR   AND    ITS   MANAGEMENT. 

When  the  foetus  has  attained  such  a  degree  of  develop- 
ment as  to  render  it  capable   of  independent  life,  which  it 


NATURAL  LABOR  AND  ITS  MANAGEMENT.     267 

does  in  about  two  hundred  and  eighty  days,  the  muscles 
of  the  body  of  the  womb  take  on  contractile  action  and 
force  its  contents  against  the  circular  muscles  that  form 
the  mouth  of  the  womb.  The  mouth  of  the  womb  thus 
becomes  dilated,  while  the  continued  muscular  contraction 
expels  the  fcetus  and  its  secundines.*  This  action  is 
part  of  a  normal  function,  and  is  called  labor,  or  parturi- 
tion. The  muscular  contractions  are  attended  with  pain, 
and  have,  consequently,  been  called  labor  pains.  The 
average  duration  of  a  natural  labor  is  from  four  to  six 
hours.  In  many  cases  it  does  not  last  more  than  fifteen 
or  twenty  minutes,  and,  if  women  observed  the  laws  of 
nature,  this  would  be  the  rule;  but  it  often  occupies  many 
hours. 

Among  the  premonitory  signs  of  labor,  the  sinking 
of  the  abdomen  is  the  first  noticed.  This  frequently 
occurs  two  weeks  before  the  labor,  but  it  may  not  do  so 
till  three  or  four  days  before.  Sometimes  a  squeezing  sen- 
sation is  felt  in  the  abdomen,  which  recurs  at  intervals, 
and  which  is,  doubtless,  painless  uterine  contractions. 
They  may  be  felt  two  or  three  weeks  previous  to  labor, 
and  they  certainly  produce  changes  in  the  mouth  and  neck 
of  the  womb  before  the  commencement  of  actual  labor. 

The  parts  become  somewhat  softened,  and  about 
twenty-four  hours  previous  to  labor  a  copious  mucous  dis- 
charge takes  place,  which  is  commonly  called  "  the  show." 
This  discharge,  however,  is  not  always  present. 

Labor  proper  commences  with  intermittent  pains, 
weak  at  first,  but  which  become  gradually  stronger  and 
more  frequent.  These  are  called  true  pains,  in  distinction 
from  the  irregular  pains,  which  come  and  go  at  irregular 

*  The  membranes  and  afterbirth. 


268  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

intervals  for  several  days,  without  having  any  effect  on 
the  womb,  and  which  are  called  false  pains. 

Labor  has  been  variously  classified  by  authors,  but 
Prof.  John  King  and  other  writers  divide  it  into  four 
classes,  as  follows: 

i.  "  Natural  labor,  in  which  the  fcetal  head  presents, 
and  where  delivery  is  effected  within  twenty-four  hours, 
without  the  aid  of  any  artificial  power. 

~.  "  Difficult  labor,  also  called  lingering,  tedious  and 
protracted,  in  which  the  fcetal  head  presents,  but  where 
labor  continues  beyond  twenty-four  hours,  and  may 
require  some  medicinal,  manual  or  instrumental  assistance. 

3  "  Preternatural  labor,  in  which  some  other  part 
than  the  head  presents,  where  there  is  a  prolapsus  of  the 
umbilical  cord,  or  a  plurality  of  children. 

4  "  Complicated  labor,  in  which  some  accident 
occurs,  not  connected  with  the  presentation  of  the  foetus. " 

For  the  sake  of  convenience,  labor  is  divided  into 
three  stages.  The  first  stage  begins  with  the  first  symp- 
toms of  labor,  and  ends  with  the  complete  dilation  of  the 
mouth  of  the  womb;  the  second  stage  extends  from  the 
completion  of  the  first  to  the  birth  of  the  child,  and  the 
third  includes  the  expulsion  of  the  placenta,  or  afterbirth. 

In  the  first  stage  the  pains  are  felt  low  down  in  the 
back  and  abdomen,  and  in  the  groins  and  thighs.  No 
bearing-down  is  felt  with  these  pains,  and  the  patient 
should  not  make  any  effort  in  that  direction.  Nausea  and 
vomiting  sometimes  occur,  but  should  not  occasion  any 
alarm.  As  these  pains  continue  the  "  bag  of  waters :' 
crowds  into  the  mouth  of  the  womb  and  helps  the  dilation. 
As  a  rule,  it  does  not  break  till  near  the  end  of  the  first 
Stage,  though  it   may   do   so  at  any   time.      No  officious 


NATURAL   LABOR   AND   ITS    MANAGEMENT.  269 

attempt  should  be  made  to  rupture  this  membrane  till  the 
full  dilatation  of  the  womb,  for,  when  the  waters  escape 
early,  the  labor  is  more  difficult,  and  constitutes  what  is 
called  a  dry  labor. 

Among  savages  and  women  who  have  a  normal  physi- 
cal development  this  stage  of  labor  is  completed  without 
pain,  as  they  only  experience  the  grasping  feeling  of  the 
painless  uterine  contractions,  a  condition  analogous  to  the 
contractions  which  take  place  under  the  influence  of  chlo- 
roform. 

In  the  second  stage  the  pains  become  stronger,  of 
longer  duration,  and  with  shorter  intervals  between  them. 
The  patient  now  feels  like  making  an  effort  to  help,  and 
she  distinctly  feels  the  head  moving  downward.  As  the 
child's  head  passes  through  the  bony  pelvis  and  presses  on 
the  soft  parts,  these  yield,  and  finally,  with  one  long  con- 
traction, the  head  is  born.  In  a  few  moments  another  pain 
expels  the  body.  This  stage  lasts  from  five  minutes  to 
half  an  hour,  as  a  rule. 

The  womb  is  prepared  for  the  third  stage  by  a  short 
period  of  rest,  when  one  or  two  pains  come  and  the  mem- 
branes and  placenta  are  expelled.  This  occupies  a  few 
moments,  as  a  rule. 

In  natural  labor  these  stages  follow  each  other  in 
rapid  succession,  without  difficulty  or  complications. 
Labor  being  a  normal  function,  nothing  is  to  be  done  in 
the  majority  of  cases  but  to  await  the  advent  of  the  child. 

When  the  first  symptoms  of  labor  arc  manifest,  the 
nurse  should  be  sent  for,  if  she  is  not  already  at  hand. 
The  bed  should  be  prepared  by  covering  it  with  a  rubber 
sheet,  over  which  a  folded  sheet  may  be  placed;  and 
another  sheet  should  be  folded  and  fastened  loosely  around 


270  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

the  patient's  waist,  so  that  it  can  be  removed  when  the 
labor  is  over. 

As  soon  as  the  pains  become  regular  the  physician 
or  midwife  should  be  sent  for,  and,  on  arriving,  he  or  she 
should  make  an  examination  to  ascertain  the  condition 
of  the  mouth  of  the  womb  and  the  position  of  the  child. 

If  the  bowels  are  constipated,  they  should  be  relieved 
by  an  enema  of  warm  water  and  soap-suds,  and  the 
bladder  should  be  emptied  as  often  as  desired.  Should 
the  urine  not  pass,  it  should  be  drawn  off  with  a  catheter 
before  the  second  stage  begins. 

During  the  first  stage  and  the  beginning  of  the  sec- 
ond, the  woman  need  not  remain  in  bed,  but  can  assume 
any  position  in  which  she  can  feel  the  most  comfortable; 
but,  as  soon  as  the  head  begins  to  press  on  the  soft  parts, 
it  is  best  to  remain  in  bed.  At  the  time  of  delivery  she 
may  lie  on  her  back  or  left  side,  with  the  legs  drawn  up, 
though  the  back  position  is,  as  a  rule,  the  most  com- 
fortable. 

No  effort  at  bearing-down  should  be  made  till  that 
inclination  is  distinctly  felt  of  itself,  as  if  thefcetus  was  being 
crowded  down  into  the  pelvis.  Then  voluntary  efforts 
will  help  materially,  but  no  such  effort  should  be  made 
except  during  the  continuance  of  a  pain.  At  this  time 
the  feet  should  rest  against  the  foot-board  of  the  bed,  or 
against  some  solid  body  placed  at  the  feet,  and  a  sheet  or 
towel  maybe  fastened  to  the  foot  of  the  bed,  on  which  the 
patient  can  pull  while  she  presses  with  her  feet,  as  each 
pain  comes  on.  The  nurse  and  midwife  may  allow  her  to 
pull  on  their  hands,  instead,  if  they  prefer. 

The  lying-in  chamber  should  be  comfortably  warm, 
but  not  hot,  and  provision  should  be   made  for  proper 


NATURAL   LABOR   AND   ITS   MANAGEMENT.  2J I 

ventilation.  The  expectant  mother  should  be  made  to 
understand  that  the  coming  ordeal  is  the  completion  of  a 
natural  function,  and  there  is  no  occasion  to  look  upon  it 
with  dread.  The  room  should  be  free  from  company,  and 
the  attendant  should  endeavor  to  quiet  all  fear,  instead  of 
recounting  his  experience  with  "  terrible  "  cases. 

No  instructions  are  necessary  for  a  skilled  physician 
or  midwife  as  to  what  should  be  done  at  the  time  of  deliv- 
ery; but  any  woman  is  liable  to  find  herself  alone  with  a 
friend  at  such  a  time,  and  the  child  may  be  born  before 
the  attendant  arrives.  In  such  a  case  there  is  no  cause  for 
alarm,  for  the  speedy  delivery  is  a  sure  sign  of  a  natural 
and  simple  labor.  It  is  only  necessary  to  "  keep  cool,"  and 
render  such  assistance  as  is  necessary. 

The  mother  can  always  tell  when  the  head  is  born, 
even  if  the  child  does  not  cry,  which  it  usually  does  as 
soon  as  the  head  reaches  the  world.  Whoever  is  present 
at  such  a  time  should  immediately  pass  the  finger  around 
the  neck  to  see  that  the  cord  is  not  wound  around  it.  If 
this  is  the  case,  it  should  be  carefully  slipped  over  the  head 
before  the  next  pain  comes.  The  neck  being  free  from 
the  cord,  if  the  child  has  not  cried  a  finger  should  be 
inserted  into  the  mouth  to  remove  any  accumulation. 
Then  wait  a  few  moments  for  the  expulsion  of  the  body. 
If  this  does  not  occur  in  a  minute  or  two,  the  index  finger 
should  be  inserted  at  the  back  part  of  the  vagina,  so  as  to 
get  it  under  the  shoulder,  in  the  axilla,  and  gentle  outward 
traction  should  be  made  while  a  downward  pressure  over 
the  abdomen  should  be  made  with  the  other  hand.  This 
will  always  complete  the  delivery,  and  the  mother  will 
experience  a  period  of  rest,  which  may  range  from  five 
minutes  to  half  an  hour. 


272  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

» 

Cutting  the  Cord. —  Attention  must  now  be 
directed  to  the  infant.  If  it  cries,  it  is  sure  to  be  all  right, 
and  the  cord  can  be  cut  at  once.  If  the  child  does  not 
show  signs  of  life,  it  should  be  turned  from  side  to  side, 
and  slight  pressure  made  on  the  ribs,  sprinkled  with  hot 
or  cold  water,  held  by  the  feet  with  its  head  down  for  a 
moment.  When  breathing  begins  the  cord  should  be  felt, 
and,  when  its  pulsation  stops,  it  should  be  cut  with  a  pair 
of  scissors  previously  provided  for  the  purpose. 

It  has  been  the  custom  from  time  immemorial  to  tie 
the  cord  about  two  and  one-half  or  three  inches  from  the 
abdomen  before  cutting  it,  with  the  view  of  preventing 
the  child  from  bleeding  to  death.  Some  apply  the  second 
ligature  and  cut  between  the  two.  It  is  now  demonstrated 
that  tying  the  cord  is  entirely  unnecessary,  as  the  direc- 
tion of  the  current  of  blood  changes  as  soon  as  the  infant 
begins  to  breathe,  and  then  no  blood  can  escape  from  the 
vessels  of  the  cord,  except  what  may  remain  in  them  when 
the  change  in  circulation  takes  place,  and  it  is  better  that 
it  should  escape.  It  is  true  that  few  physicians  are  yet 
willing  to  leave  the  cord  untied,  and,  as  the  tying  does  no 
special  harm,  it  may  be  done  to  allay  any  fears  of  the 
mother.  When  the  cord  is  cut,  the  child  can  be  wrapped 
up  in  a  warm  blanket,  and  left  in  some  comfortable  place 
till  the  mother  is  cared  for. 

The  placenta,  or  afterbirth,  is  usually  expelled  with 
one  pain,  in  from  five  to  thirty  minutes.  It  may  be  has- 
tened by  placing  one  hand  over  the  abdomen,  and  knead- 
ing the  womb  with  gentle  pressure,  at  the  same  time 
making  slight  traction  on  the  cord.  The  cord  should 
never  be  forcibly  pulled,  as  such  traction  is  liable  to  invert 
the  womb. 


NATURAL   LABOR   AND    ITS    MANAGEMENT.  273 

Should  there  be  much  flooding,  the  hand  should  be 
held  on  the  abdomen,  pressing  over  the  womb  till  con- 
tractions take  place.  The  head  should  be  lowered,  the 
abdomen  sprinkled  with  cold  water,  and  a  cold  compress 
applied  against  the  vulva. 

The  soiled  sheets  should  be  removed  at  once,  the 
patient  bathed  with  a  tepid  sponge  bath,  her  clothing 
changed  if  soiled,  and  everything  done  to  make  her  clean 
and  comfortable  without  delay.  An  extra  blanket  or 
quilt  should  be  spread  over  her  to  prevent  a  chill,  and  she 
should  then  be  left  to  rest.  If  she  feels  chilly,  a  little 
good  whisky  or  brandy  may  be  given. 

The  Bandage. —  It  is  still  the  rule  with  many  to 
apply  a  bandage  tightly  around  the  abdomen,  under  the 
supposition  that  it  aids  in  contracting  the  womb,  and 
insures  a  "  good  form  "  after  childbirth.  This  is  a  great 
mistake,  for  such  pressure  only  crowds  the  womb  down 
into  the  pelvis,  and,  when  it  should  have  regained  its 
natural  condition,  it  is  found  to  be  enlarged  and  out  of 
place.  It  also  prevents  the  natural  action  of  the  abdomi- 
nal muscles,  and  injures  rather  than  benefits  the  shape. 
No  progressive  physician  applies  the  post-part lem  bandage 
at  the  present  day,  and  the  woman  who  still  adheres  to  it 
should  lay  aside  her  old  ideas  and  be  guided  by  the 
enlightened  experience  of  the  present  day.  I  have  fre- 
quently been  obliged  to  fight  against  this  prejudice  in 
favor  of  the  bandage,  but,  having  carried  the  point  by 
discarding  it,  women  who  have  borne  many  children  have 
invariably  admitted  that  they  have  felt  better  than  they 
ever  had  done  before'  after  childbirth. 


274  FACTS    FOR     LADIES. 

DIFFICULT   LABOR. 

Difficult  or  protracted  labor  embraces  all  cases  when 
the  head  presents,  but  which  continue  longer  than  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  may  require  mechanical  or  medical  aid. 
In  such  cases  the  physician  is  sure  to  be  on  hand,  and  he 
can  determine  the  exact  state  of  affairs.  A  difficult  labor 
is  not  by  any  means  a  serious  matter,  and  the  patient  has 
no  occasion  to  be  alarmed.  The  first  labor,  as  a  rule,  is 
the  most  likely  to  be  difficult.  You  should  have  suffi- 
cient confidence  in  the  skill  and  experience  of  your  physi- 
cian to  do  whatever  he  deems  best,  after  twenty-four 
hours.  He  may  decide  to  give  ergot  to  increase  the  power 
of  the  womb,  or,  if  he  finds  the  patient  temporarily 
exhausted,  he  will  insure  her  a  few  hours'  rest  by  adminis- 
tering such  sleeping  potion  as  he  thinks  best  suited  to  her 
condition.  Should  he  decide  to  use  the  forceps,  it  should 
occasion  no  alarm.  When  properly  used,  they  do  not 
injure  the  child,  and  give  immediate  relief  to  the  mother. 
With  a  good  nurse  and  one  lady  friend  present,  no  other 
physician  need  be  called  in  to  assist  in  an  instrumental 
delivery.  When  consultation  is  asked  for  in  such  cases,  it 
is  only  for  the  assistance,  and  the  patient  is  unnecessarily 
alarmed.  Of  course,  should  delivery  with  the  forceps  be 
thought  impossible,  consultation  should  be  had  before  any 
other  method  is  decided  on. 

Craniotomy.  —  If  the  child  cannot  be  born,  the  rule  is 
to  sacrifice  the  child  for  the  safety  of  the  mother.  This  is 
done  by  cutting  and  crushing  the  head  of  the  child,  and 
removing  it  in  pieces.  Fortunately  this  is  rarely  necessary, 
and,  by  observing  the  rules  laid  down  under  the  heading 
of"  Painless  Childbirth,"  it  would  never  have  to  be  per- 
formed. 


COMPLICATED   LABOR.  2/5 

Cesarean  Section. — When  it  is  thought  that  the 
mother  cannot  live,  and  it  is  desirable  to  save  the  child, 
an  incision  is  made  through  the  abdomen,  the  womb  is  cut 
open,  and  the  child  is  removed  in  that  way.  Julius  Caesar 
was  born  in  this  way,  and  hence  the  name  of  the  opera- 
tion. It  is  rarely  necessary,  and  should  never  be  thought 
of  as  long  as  there  is  a  possible  chance  for  the  life  of  the 
mother. 

PRETERNATURAL    LABOR. 

When  some  other  part  than  the  head  presents  at  the 
mouth  of  the  womb,  as  the  shoulder,  breech,  feet  or  knees, 
it  is  called  a  preternatural  labor.  The  birth  of  monstrosi- 
ties, a  plurality  of  children,  and  the  falling  of  the  cord 
before  any  other  part  of  the  child,  are  also  classed  under 
this  head.  Feet,  knee  and  breech  presentations  may  be 
followed  by  a  speedy  labor,  the  only  care  being  required 
while  the  head  is  being  born.  When  the  head,  shoulder 
or  arm  presents,  the  physician  is  obliged  to  introduce  his 
hand  and  turn.  This  consists  in  grasping  one  or  both 
feet,  and  bringing  them  down  so  that  the  feet  are  born 
first.  When  there  are  more  than  one  child,  the  labor  may 
be  uncomplicated  except  in  the  fact  of  plurality,  and  mon- 
strosities may  be  born  the  same  as  a  naturally  developed 
child.  Here  again  the  physician  must  be  the  judge  as  to 
the  course  to  pursue,  and  his  advice  must  be  followed,  and 
his  decisions  acquiesced  in.  Even  in  these  cases,  when 
in  skillful  hands,  there  is  no  cause  ol  alarm,  as  the  large 
majority  terminate  favorably  to  both  mother  and  child. 

COMPLICATED  LABOR. 

Complicated  labor  embraces  all  conditions  that  are 
likely  to  interfere  with  the  natural  progress   of  the  labor. 


276  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

Among  the  most  common  complications  are  placenta 
prsevia,  hemorrhage,  or  flooding,  retained  placenta,  rup- 
ture of  the  womb,  inversion  of  the  womb,  and  puerperal 
convulsions. 

Placenta  Previa. —  When  a  pregnant  woman  has 
a  flow  of  blood  every  three  or  four  weeks,  after  the  fourth 
month,  it  indicates  that  the  afterbirth  is  attached  near  the 
mouth  of  the  womb,  and  it  becomes  partially  detached 
from  time  to  time  as  the  womb  enlarges.  When  such 
a  condition  is  present,  perfect  quiet  should  be  observed 
at  each  period  of  flooding,  and  the  physician  should  be 
sent  for  on  the  appearance  of  the  first  sign  of  labor,  as 
it  is  necessary  to  hasten  the  delivery  to  prevent  serious 
trouble. 

Hemorrhage,  or  Flooding. — Serious  flooding  may 
come  on  during  the  progress  of  labor  or  immediately  after 
delivery,  and  it  always  requires  prompt  attention.  If 
during  labor,  it  may  require  prompt  action  to  hasten 
delivery;  and,  should  it  occur  after  delivery,  the  head 
must  be  lowered,  the  foot  of  the  bed  raised  at  least  a 
foot,  cold  water  should  be  applied  to  the  vulva  and 
abdomen,  and  the  hand  should  be  applied  over  the 
abdomen  so  as  to  grasp  the  womb  and  thus  promote  con- 
traction. Ergot  should  be  given  in  full  doses,  and  in 
some  cases  a  piece  of  ice  maybe  crowded  into  the  vagina. 
These  are  the  measures  to  be  adopted  in  case  of  an  emerg- 
ency, but,  if  no  physician  is  present,  one  should  be  sent 
for  as  soon  as  possible.  Should  fainting  occur  before  the 
physician  arrives,  ammonia  should  be  held  to  the  nose, 
and,  as  soon  as  the  patient  can  swallow,  an  ounce  of  good 
whisky  or  brandy,  diluted  with  the  same  quantity  of  water, 
should  be  given. 


COMPLICATED    LABOR.  277 

Retained  Placenta. —  When  the  placenta,  or  after- 
birth, is  not  expelled  within  an  hour,  the  physician  should 
take  means  for  its  removal,  and  the  sooner  this  is  done 
the  better.  Should  this  be  neglected,  the  friends  should 
insist  on  having  counsel,  as  serious  consequences  are  sure 
to  follow  any  neglect. 

Rupture  of  the  Womb  and  Inversion. —  These 
are  very  rare  conditions,  and  can  only  be  recognized  by 
the  physician.  Should  rupture  occur,  delivery  should  be 
hastened  ;  but  such  cases  are  likely  to  prove  fatal.  An 
inverted  womb  should  be  restored  to  its  normal  position 
as  soon  as  possible. 

Puerperal  Convulsions. — Puerperal  convulsions 
is  the  term  applied  to  a  malady  that  attacks  women  just 
before,  during,  or  immediately  after  labor.  Headache, 
dizziness,  constriction  of  the  forehead,  loss  of  sight,  ring- 
ing in  the  ears,  flushed  countenance  and  confusion  of 
thoughts  are  the  common  premonitory  symptoms.  The 
convulsions  are  violent  and  irregular,  and  may  last  from  a 
few  seconds  to  many  minutes  An  intermission  then  occurs, 
only  to  be  followed  by  renewed  convulsions,  each  one  being 
more  severe  than  its  predecessor. 

An  examination  of  the  urine  shows  the  presence  of  a 
large  amount  of  albumen,  and  it  is  generally  believed  that 
the  primary  cause  of  the  convulsions  is  uremic  poisoning. 

Treatment. —  Such  cases  as  this  should  be  under  the 
constant  care  of  the  physician,  but  should  the  convulsions 
occur  before  his  arrival,  Norzvood's  tincture  of  veratrum 
viride  (American  hellebore)  should  be  given  —  thirty  drops 
at  a  dose,  in  water  —  and  repeated  every  half  an  hour  till 
the  convulsions  are  controlled.  Under  ordinary  circum- 
stances this  would  be   an   enormous  dose,  but  only  good 


278  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

results  will  follow  its  use  in  this  condition.  It  is  about 
the  only  remedy  that  promises  any  certainty  of  relief. 
Should  the  convulsions  once  be  controlled,  attention  should 
at  once  be  directed  to  the  kidneys. 

If  the  convulsions  occur  at  the  sixth  month  of  preg- 
nancy, the  foetus  is  sure  to  die,  and  miscarriage  is  sure  to 
follow.  When  it  occurs  after  the  seventh  month,  it  is 
always  best  to  bring  on  premature  labor. 

ATTENTIONS  AFTER  LABOR. 

As  soon  as  the  labor  is  over,  and  the  patient  made 
comfortable  in  bed,  care  should  be  taken  to  ventilate  the 
room.  The  patient  should  then  be  directed  to  keep  quiet 
so  as  to  secure  some  sleep,  if  possible,  and  for  this  pur- 
pose it  is  best  to  darken  the  room.  Of  course,  no  one 
should  remain  in  the  room  but  the  nurse.  Even  the  babe 
should  be  removed  so  that  the  mother  may  not  be  dis- 
turbed by  its  cries. 

On  awaking,  the  patient  may  feel  thirsty  or  even 
hungry.  A  little  toast  and  tea,  gruel,  or  some  good 
animal  broth  may  be  given,  and  this  light  diet  should  be 
continued  for  two  or  three  days.  After  that  the  most 
nutritious  diet  should  be  supplied.  Soups,  broths,  roast 
beef,  steaks,  chops,  milk  and  eggs  should  be  used  in  suc- 
cession. It  is  a  great  mistake  to  starve  a  woman  for 
nine  days  after  confinement,  as  was  the  old  custom.  She 
needs  good  food  now,  if  ever,  and  under  no  pretext 
should  it  be  withheld. 

Sometimes  the  urine  cannot  be  voided,  and  this  soon 
causes  great  distress.  Hot  applications  to  the  lower  part 
of  the  abdomen,  over  the  bladder,  will  sometimes  cause  the 
bladder  to  act;  but,  if  it  does  not  doso,it  should  be  drawn 
off  with  a  catheter.      If  once   necessary,  this  may  have  to 


ATTENTIONS  AFTER  LABOR.  279 

be  continued  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  and,  as  it  must  be 
drawn  at  least  three  times  in  twenty-four  hours,  the  nurse 
should  be  able  to  do  it. 

The  bowels  are  generally  constipated  after  labor,  and, 
if  they  do  not  move  for  three  or  four  days,  it  is  all  the 
better.  Should  they  occasion  any  distress,  they  should  be 
moved  by  enema;  but,  instead  of  getting  up,  the  patient 
should  use  a  bed-pan. 

About  twelve  hours  after  confinement  the  vagina 
should  be  thoroughly  cleansed  by  an  injection  of  warm 
carbolized  water.  To  a  quart  of  warm  water  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  pure  95  per  cent,  carbolic  acid  should  be 
added,  and,  after  being  thoroughly  mixed,  it  should  be 
poured  into  a  fountain  syringe,  and  used  to  wash  out  the 
vagina.  Here  again  the  bed-pan  should  be  used  to  pre- 
vent soiling  the  bed.  This  injection  should  be  used  two 
or  three  times  a  day  till  the  bleeding  and  subsequent  dis- 
charge (the  lochia)  have  ceased.  This  cleansing  and  anti- 
septic wash  prevents  the  development  of  childbed  fever, 
and  the  woman  is  sure  to  progress  rapidly  under  this  man- 
agement. Even  the  so-called  milk  fever,  which  was  sup- 
posed to  be  a  natural  sequence  of  the  secretion  of  milk,  is 
prevented  by  these  injections,  because  it  is  now  recognized 
that  absorption  of  the  decomposing  blood  was  the  cause 
of  the  fever  known  as  milk  fever. 

A  daily  sponge  bath,  with  the  frequent  changing  of 
the  napkins,  should  also  be  insisted  on,  because  a  free 
action  of  the  skin  admits  of  the  throwing  off  impurities 
from  the  system,  while  the  cleansing  makes  it  impossible 
for  other  impurities  to  be  absorbed  into  the  blood. 

Care  of  the  Breasts,  and  Lactation. —  For 
two  months  before  confinement  some  attention  should  be 


280  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

paid  to  the  nipples.  If  they  are  small,  they  should  be 
drawn  out  with  a  small  breast-pump,  and  an  effort  should 
be  made  to  harden  them.  The  following  will  be  found 
a  valuable  application  for  that  purpose:  Tannin,  10  grains; 
good  brandy,  i  ounce.  Mix,  and  apply  to  the  nipple 
night  and  morning. 

After  the  mother's  first  sleep  the  child  should  be 
applied  to  the  breast.  Though  there  is  no  milk  at  first, 
there  is  a  watery  secretion  present,  which  satisfies  the 
child,  and  is  beneficial  to  it.  The  child  should  be  applied 
to  the  breasts  alternately. 

About  the  third  day  the  veins  of  the  breast  begin  to 
enlarge,  as  do  also  the  sections  of  the  glands  themselves. 
The  milk  ducts  speedily  fill  up,  and  the  breast  frequently 
becomes  very  large  and  intensely  painful.  As  soon  as  the 
slightest  enlargement  is  observed,  the  breast  should  be 
gently  rubbed  from  the  outer  margin  toward  the  nipple, 
and,  if  any  lumps  or  bunches  are  discovered,  they  should 
be  rubbed  till  they  become  perfectly  soft.  As  soon  as 
the  milk  is  secreted,  it  should  be  made  to  flow  by  slightly 
squeezing  the  nipples  a  few  times,  and  then  the  child 
should  be  applied. 

It  was  formerly  a  common  thing  for  mothers  to  lack 
sufficient  milk  to  nourish  the  child,  but  this  was  largely 
due  to  the  starvation  diet  on  which  they  were  kept.  To 
insure  a  good  supply  of  milk,  a  healthy  woman  has  only 
to  be  well  nourished.  If  at  first  the  supply  is  scanty,  the 
breasts  should  be  kept  warm  with  flannel,  gentle  rubbing 
should  be  kept  up,  and  the  diet  must  be  as  before  recom- 
mended. It  is  not  a  wise  thing  to  attempt  to  force  the 
milk  by  drinking  ale  and  porter. 

Under   their   present    physical    disabilities,    women 


DISEASES   FOLLOWING    LABOR.  28 1 

should  remain  in  bed  at  least  ten  days  or  two  weeks  ;  but, 
if  women  were  physically  perfect,  this  would  be  as  unne- 
cessary as  it  is  among  savage  tribes. 

DISEASES  FOLLOWING  LABOR. 

The  diseases  that  follow  childbirth  are  much  less  fre- 
qently  met  with  now  than  formerly.  This  favorable  result 
is  due  to  the  antiseptic  methods  that  have  been  intro- 
duced into  modern  midwifery.  In  fact,  when  any  of  the 
diseases  incident  to  childbirth  follow  a  natural  labor,  it 
may  be  said  that  they  are  due  principally  to  the  lack  of 
proper  care.  Among  the  conditions  liable  to  be  met  with 
are  peritonitis,  puerperal  fever,  phlegmasia  dolens,  puer- 
peral mania,  sore  nipples,  inflamed  and  gathered  breasts 
and  sore  mouth. 

Peritonitis. — The  peritoneum  is  a  thin  serous  mem- 
brane that  lines  the  inner  walls  of  the  abdomen,  holds  the 
viscera  in  their  proper  places,  covers  the  bowels  in  front 
like  an  apron,  forms  the  ligaments  of  the  womb,  and  invests 
that  organ  with  a  thin  external  covering.  This  membrane 
becomes  inflamed  by  extension  of  inflammation  from  the 
womb  and  ovaries;  and  the  inflammation  may  be  confined 
to  the  parts  immediately  connected  with  the  womb,  or  it 
may  extend  so  as  to  involve  the  entire  membrane. 

It  is  likely  to  occur  two  or  three  days  after  confine- 
ment, and  is  ushered  in  by  a  sudden  and  severe  chill,  fol- 
lowed by  fever,  with  severe  pain  and  tenderness  over  the 
abdomen.  The  pain  is  of  a  boring,  cutting  character,  and 
is  aggravated  by  the  slightest  touch.  The  patient  draws 
up  the  legs,  lies  on  the  back,  and  breathes  short  and 
quick.  The  bowels  are  constipated,  the  abdomen  is 
greatly  distended  with  gas,  after  the  third  day,  the  tongue 


282  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

is    coated,  and  vomiting    usually  ensues.      Sometimes    a 
diarrhcea  sets  in. 

As  soon  as  any  of  these  symptoms  are  observed  the 
physician  should  be  notified  at  once. 

This  disease  may  occur  from  other  causes,  as  a  blow 
on  the  abdomen,  inflammation  of  the  womb  or  ovaries, 
and  exposure  to  cold  and  damp. 

Treatment. —  As  soon  as  any  tenderness  is  felt  over 
the  abdomen,  and  especially  if  this  should  be  followed  by 
a  chill,  a  hot  fomentation  of  hops  should  be  applied  over 
the  entire  abdomen,  and  this  should  be  covered  with  oiled 
silk  to  retain  the  heat,  and  it  should  be  renewed  every  two 
hours.  Spirits  of  turpentine  rubbed  well  into  the  skin  of 
the  abdomen  once  or  twice  a  day,  will  also  be  found  of 
great  service. 

The  fever  is  best  controlled  by  the  following :  Tincture 
of  aconite  root,  20  drops;  tincture  of  veratrum  viride 
(Norwood's)  30  drops;  water,  4  ounces.  Mix,  and  give 
a  teaspoonful  every  half-hour  till  the  skin  becomes  cool  and 
moist.  Opium  is  a  valuable  remedy  in  these  cases,  and  is 
best  given  in  Dover  s  powder,  10  grains  of  which  may  be 
given  as  soon  as  the  fever  abates,  and  repeated  in  six 
hours.  This  allays  the  pain,  causes  sleep,  and  promotes 
free  perspiration.  The  vaginal  injection  should  be  used 
as  previously  recommended,  but  the  water  should  be  as 
hot  as  can  be  borne  with  comfort.  To  relieve  the  disten- 
tion of  the  abdomen,  by  preventing  the  accumulation  of 
gas,  and  to  keep  up  the  action  of  the  skin,  the  following 
will  be  found  useful:  Fluid  extract  of  prickly  ash  ber- 
ries, y2  ounce;  fluid  extract  of  pleurisy  root,  I  ounce; 
glycerine,  enough  to  make  4  ounces.  Mix,  and  give 
a  teaspoonful  in  a  teacupful  of  hot  water  every  two  or  three 


DISEASES    FOLLOWING   LABOR.  283 

hours.  The  bowels  need  not  be  disturbed  for  a  few  days, 
but  as  the  fever  subsides  the  bowels  can  be  moved  by  an 
enema. 

Should  there  be  any  obstruction  of  the  kidneys,  20 
grains  of  acetate  of  potash  may  be  given  in  a  wineglassful 
of  water  three  times  a  day.  Soups,  broths,  gruel  and  milk 
should  constitute  the  diet  for  a  few  days,  and  the  patient 
should  be  kept  absolutely  quiet  till  all  symptoms  of  the 
disease  have  disappeared. 

Puerperal  or  Child-bed  Fever.  —  Puerperal  or 
child-bed  fever  usually  results  from  absorption  of  the 
poisonous  matter  that  lies  in  contact  with  the  womb  and 
vagina.  This  blood  and  matter  soon  receives  air  germs 
from  without,  which  cause  putrefaction,  and  the  absorp- 
tion of  the  putrefied  fluids  causes  blood-poisoning. 

This  fever  is  also  preceded  by  a  chill  and  great  ten- 
derness over  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen,  the  fever 
runs  high,  and  the  tongue  is  fiery  red,  dry  and  slimy  in 
appearance. 

Treatment.  —  When  the  parts  are  properly  cleansed 
with  the  carbolized  injections  two  or  three  times  a  day, 
as  previously  advised,  there  is  rarely  any  danger  of  this 
fever  developing.  If  it  does  show  itself,  the  parts  should 
be  thoroughly  cleansed  at  once,  and  an  examination 
should  be  made  to  ascertain  if  any  part  of  the  afterbirth 
has  been  retained,  and,  if  so,  this  should  be  removed. 
Norwood's  tincture  of  veratrum  viride  should  be  given  in 
doses  of  3  drops  every  half-hour  till  the  fever  subsides. 
As  this  fever  may  be  preceded  or  followed  by  puerperal 
convulsions  or  general  peritonitis,  the  physician  must  be 
depended  on  to  treat  each  case  according  to  the  special 
developments  manifested. 


284  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

Phlegmasia  Dolens,  or  Milk -Leg. — Phlegmasia 
dolens  is  the  technical  name  applied  to  an  inflammation 
and  swelling  of  the  leg,  which  sometimes  occurs  after 
childbirth.  The  condition  was  long  called  milk-leg, 
because  it  was  supposed  that  the  milk  left  the  breasts  and 
settled  in  the  leg.  This  mistake  no  doubt  arose  from  the 
fact  of  the  skin  looking  white  and  shiny,  and  there  being 
an  absence  of  milk  in  the  breasts.  The  disease  is  now 
generally  recognized  as  an  inflammation  of  the  veins,  due 
to  a  vitiated  or  poisoned  condition  of  the  blood. 

The  disease  may  appear  as  early  as  the  fourth  day 
after  confinement,  but  it  most  generally  develops  between 
the  tenth  and  fifteenth  days.  It  usually  begins  with  severe 
rigors,  which  are  followed  by  deep-seated  pains  in  the 
groin  and  thigh,  and  an  increase  in  the  temperature  of  the 
skin.  In  a  few  hours  a  swelling  is  noticed  in  the  calf  of 
the  leg,  which  gradually  extends  upward,  involving  the 
entire  thigh.  Sometimes  the  swelling  begins  in  the  thigh, 
and  extends  downward.  The  pain  is  very  severe,  and  is 
greatly  increased  by  motion.  The  limb  is  heavy  and  stiff, 
and  it  is  so  powerless  that  the  patient  finds  it  impossible 
to  move  it.  The  swelling  rarely  attacks  both  legs  at  once, 
though,  when  it  subsides  in  one,  it  may  develop  in  the 
other  leg. 

The  swelling  leaves  the  parts  hard  and  elastic,  with  the 
skin  stretched  so  that  it  is  smooth  and  tense.  It  presents 
a  shining,  white  appearance,  and  is  extremely  sensitive  to 
the  touch. 

Sometimes  abscesses  may  form  in  different  parts  of 
the  leg,  but  this  is  a  rare  complication.  It  seldom  proves 
fatal,  but,  as  the  swelling  and  pain  subside,  a  numbness  of 
the  leg  remains  for  some  time. 


DISEASES   FOLLOWING   LABOR.  285 

Treatment. —  If  the  bowels  are  constipated,  they 
should  be  moved  freely  by  1  ounce  of  Rochelle  salts.  To 
allay  the  fever,  3  drops  of  Norwood's  tincture  of  veratrum 
viride  should  be  given  every  hour,  till  the  skin  becomes 
moist,  or  nausea  is  produced.  For  the  purpose  of  control- 
ling the  morbid  action  and  relieving  the  pain,  the  following 
should  be  given:  Tincture  of  yellow  jessamine,  ]/2 
ounce;  tincture  of  black  cohosh,  and  tincture  of  colchicum, 
of  each  1^  ounce;  compound  syrup  of  stillingia,  enough 
to  make  6  ounces.  Mix,  and  take  a  teaspoonful  every 
three  hours.  After  the  pain  has  subsided,  y2  an  ounce  of 
iodide  of  potash  should  be  added  to  this  mixture,  and  this 
should  be  continued  till  the  swelling  goes  down. 

The  best  local  treatment  consists  in  wrapping  the  leg 
in  sheets  of  cotton  batting,  and  then  with  oiled  silk.  This 
will  cause  free  perspiration,  which  is  the  thing  most 
desired.  After  the  fever  subsides  the  leg  should  be 
bandaged  snugly  but  tightly  from  the  toes  up,  to  pro- 
mote absorption,  and  thus  reduce  the  leg  to  its  natural 
size. 

Puerperal  Mania.  —  Puerperal  mania  is  a  form  of 
acute  insanity  that  is  sometimes  developed  after  confine- 
ment. It  occurs  in  persons  of  an  excitable,  nervous  tem- 
perament, and  in  those  who  dread  insanity  because 
members  of  their  families  have  been  insane.  In  most 
cases  a  condition  of  melancholy  is  present  during  the  last 
weeks  of  pregnancy,  and  an  examination  of  the  urine  will 
usually  show  a  large  percentage  of  albumen. 

The  mind  becomes  unbalanced  suddenly,  as  a  rule, 
and  the  patient  becomes  so  violent  that  injury  to  herself 
or  others  must  be  carefully  guarded  against.  After  the 
violent  paroxysms   subside,  the   patient  is  apt  to   settle 


286  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

down  into  a  condition  of  melancholia.  During  the  stage 
of  mania,  death  may  occur  at  any  moment,  but,  when 
melancholia  sets  in,  reason  is  lost. 

Such  cases  must  be  managed  by  the  experienced 
physician  according  to  the  symptoms  presented,  and,  when 
any  indications  of  violence  or  loss  of  mind  are  observed, 
he  should  be  immediately  notified. 

Sore  Nipples. — The  nipples  often  become  so  sore 
that  the  mother  cannot  endure  the  pain  occasioned  by  the 
child  nursing.  Sometimes  the  nipple  will  even  be  seen  to 
crack  and  bleed  after  each  application  of  the  child. 

Treatment. —  To  guard  against  this  trouble,  the 
nipple  should  be  prepared  by  bathing  it  twice  a  day  for  a 
couple  of  months  before  the  time  of  confinement,  with  a 
mixture  of  10  grains  of  tannin  and  an  ounce  of  brandy. 
The  nipple  should  be  washed  with  tepid  water,  and  care- 
fully dried  immediately  after  each  nursing. 

When  soreness  and  cracking  of  the  nipples  have 
already  taken  place,  a  hot  flaxseed-meal  poultice  should 
be  applied,  and  changed  every  hour  or  two  till  the  inflam- 
mation and  soreness  are  relieved.  Then  wash  the  nipple 
with  a  solution  of  five  drops  of  carbolic  acid  (95  per  cent.) 
to  the  ounce  of  water,  and  afterward  apply  over  it  a  piece 
of  lint  saturated  in  the  same  solution.  This  dressing 
should  be  applied  after  each  nursing.  During  the  treat- 
ment it  is  best  to  protect  the  nipple  by  a  nipple-shield  when 
the  child  is  nursing.  After  the  part  is  healed,  the  nipple 
should  be  washed  immediately  after  each  nursing,  and  then 
the  solution  of  tannin  and  brandy  should  be  applied.  Of 
course  this  should  be  washed  off  before  the  child  is  again 
applied  to  the  breast.  This  will  harden  the  skin,  and 
prevent  a  recurrence  of  the  soreness. 


MISS  CARRIE  DANIELS. 


DISEASES   FOLLOWING    LABOR.  287 

Gathered  Breasts.  —  When  the  secretion  of  milk 
begins,  it  often  happens  that  the  glands  of  the  breasts 
become  so  distended  that  they  become  hard  and  tender 
from  the  pressure  of  the  milk.  If  care  is  not  taken 
to  rub  the  breasts  while  in  this  condition,  so  as 
to  cause  the  milk  to  flow  from  the  nipples,  the  pressure 
will  increase  till  inflammation  sets  in.  The  veins  of 
the  breasts  first  become  distended,  and  the  skin  becomes 
discolored;  the  pain  is  of  a  heavy,  crushing  character  at 
first,  but  finally  assumes  a  beating,  throbbing  character, 
which  is  always  indicative  of  the  formation  of  pus,  or 
matter,  and  the  development  of  abscess. 

Treatment.  —  When  the  least  tenderness  or  hardness  is 
felt,  the  breasts  should  be  rubbed  gently  till  they  become 
soft  and  milk  is  got  from  the  nipples.  A  breast-pump 
should  then  be  used  to  draw  off  the  milk.  If  this  does  not 
give  relief,  apply  to  the  breasts  cloths  saturated  in  the  fol- 
lowing mixture:  Muriate  of  ammonia,  2  drachms;  fluid 
extract  of  poke  root,  2  ounces;  alcohol,  4  ounces;  water, 
enough  to  make  1  pint.  The  cloths  should  be  kept  wet 
and  covered  with  dry  flannel  till  the  pain  is  relieved.  In 
addition  to  this,  10  drops  of  fluid  extract  of  poke  root 
should  be  taken,  in  water,  after  each  meal  and  at  bed- 
time. 

If  a  deep-seated  throbbing  pain  is  felt,  the  surgeon 
should  be  consulted  at  once,  as  much  suffering  and 
destruction  of  tissue  will  be  saved  by  making  an  early 
and  free  incision  into  the  center  of  the  inflamed  part. 
After  the  use  of  the  knife,  a  hot  flaxseed-meal  poultice 
should  be  applied  every  two  or  three  hours  for  a  day  or 
two.  Those  who  dread  the  use  of  the  knife  and  leave 
these  cases  till  they  open  themselves,    suffer   much   more 


288  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

than  is  necessary,  and,  as  a  rule,  the  breast  will  be 
deformed. 

SORE  Mouth. — It  sometimes  happens  that  nursing 
women  suffer  from  a  peculiar  form  of  sore  mouth,  which 
is  called  the  sore  -mouth  of  7iursing  women.  It  manifests 
itself  by  a  severe  scalding  of  the  tongue  and  mouth,  and 
a  pink  color  of  the  membrane.  It  is  generally  a  condi- 
tion resulting  from  debility  and  constipation. 

Treatment.  —  The  bowels  should  be  regulated  and  30 

drops  of  dialyzed  iron  should  be  given  in  half  a  wineglass- 

ful  of  water  three  or  four  times  a  day.      As  a  wash  an 

infusion,  or  tea,  made  by  adding   a  pint  of  boiling  water 

to   one  ounce  of  crushed   root  of  golden  seal.     To  this  an 

even  teaspoonful  of  powdered  borax  should  be  added,  and 

then  the  mouth   should  be  washed  with  it  two  or  three 

times  a  day. 

ACCIDENTS    OF   LABOR. 

During  the  progress  of  labor,  the  neck  of  the  womb 
or  the  perineum  may  be  torn,  either  from  the  pressure  of 
a  large  head  or  from  the  use  of  instruments.  These  cases 
require  to  be  properly  treated  to  prevent  serious  troubles 
in  after  years. 

Laceration  of  the  Perineum. — The  perineum  is 
the  name  applied  to  the  space  between  the  back  part  of 
the  vagina  and  the  rectum.  The  pressure  of  the  child's 
head,  or  the  use  of  instruments,  may  tear  through  all 
these  tissues  so  as  to  connect  the  vagina  and  rectum,  or 
the  tear  may  only  extend  partly  through  the  tissues. 
These  parts  should  be  carefully  examined  as  soon  as  the 
labor  is  over,  and,  if  there  is  any  tear,  it  should  be 
attended  to  at  once,  by  the  insertion  of  two  or  more 
stitches.      To    insure    the    success    of  the    operation,   the 


MISCARRIAGE    AND    HEMORRHAGE.  289 

urine  should  be  drawn  off  with  a  catheter  for  a  week  or 
ten  days,  after  which  the  stitches  may  be  removed. 

When  such  lacerations  are  not  attended  to  at  once, 
much  suffering  and  inconvenience  are  produced,  and  after 
a  time  an  operation  must  be  performed  which  will  confine 
the  patient  to  bed  for  at  least  five  or  six  weeks.  Many 
cases  of  chronic  invalidism  in  women  result  from  neglect 
in  operating  on  lacerated  perineum;  and,  when  an  opera- 
tion is  properly  performed,  prompt  and  complete  relief  is 
secured.  No  woman  should  allow  even  a  slight  rupture 
of  the  perineum  to  go  without  being  operated  on. 

Laceration  of  the  Neck  of  the  Womb.  —  Some- 
times the  neck  of  the  womb  is  torn  during  the  progress  of 
the  labor,  but  is  not  reorganized  till  symptoms  of  inflam- 
mation are  subsequently  developed.  If  not  relieved  by  a 
proper  operation,  it  is  sure  to  occasion  much  suffering,  and 
will  usually  prevent  the  possibility  of  subsequent  preg- 
nancy. An  experienced  surgeon  should  always  be  con- 
sulted, and  an  operation  should  be  performed  as  soon  as 
the  parts  are  in  proper  condition  from  local  treatment. 

MISCARRIAGE   AND    HEMORRHAGE. 

When  the  foetus  is  expelled  from  the  womb  before 
the  seventh  month  of  pregnancy,  it  is  called  abortion,  or 
miscarriage.  These  terms  are  synonymous,  though  the 
term  abortion  has  by  usage  come  to  mean,  with  many, 
the  expulsion  of  the  foetus  caused  by  criminal  interference; 
while  miscarriage  is  the  term  applied  to  its  accidental 
expulsion. 

Miscarriage  may  be  caused  by  a  debilitated  condition 
of  the  mother,  by  the  death  of  the  foetus  from  any  cause, 
by  any  severe  mental  shock  or  injury,  and  by  criminal 
interference.      When   it  once    occurs,  it   is   likely  to  take 


290  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

place  again  about  the  same  time  at  each  succeeding  preg- 
nancy. It  may  occur  at  any  time  prior  to  the  seventh 
month,  but  is  most  frequent  between  the  eighth  and 
twelfth  weeks. 

The  symptoms  are  intermittent  pains  resembling 
those  of  labor,  and  a  sudden  and  profuse  hemorrhage 
from  the  womb.  Sometimes  it  is  ushered  in  by  a  severe 
chill  which  is  followed  by  high  fever. 

Treatment. —  The  patient  should  assume  the  recum- 
bent position  as  soon  as  the  first  symptoms  appear.  A 
quarter-grain  morphine  pill  should  be  given  at  once  to 
relieve  the  pain;  and  to  prevent  the  uterine  action,  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  fluid  extract  of  black  haw  should  be  given 
in  water,  three  or  four  times  a  day.  This  remedy  is 
almost  a  specific  for  the  prevention  of  miscarriage,  and 
women  who  habitually  miscarry  should  begin  taking  it 
several  days  before  the  usual  time  that  the  miscarriage 
takes  place,  and  it  should  be  continued  for  a  week  or  ten 
days  after  it  has  passed. 

When  severe  hemorrhage  occurs,  the  physician  should 
be  sent  for  as  soon  as  possible,  as  he  needs  to  resort  to 
mechanical  means  to  control  it.  Before  the  physician 
arrives,  it  may  be  necessary  to  lower  the  head  and  elevate 
the  hips,  to  apply  cloths  wet  in  cold  water  to  the  vulva 
and  over  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen.  As  the  hem- 
orrhage cannot  be  relieved  till  the  fcetus  is  expelled,  the 
physician  must  be  allowed  to  make  an  examination  imme- 
diately on  arriving,  so  as  to  be  able  to  render  assistance 
at  the  first  possible  moment. 

PREMATURE    LABOR. 

By  premature  labor  is  meant  the  expulsion  of  the 
fcetus  before  the  full  period,  and  after  the   seventh  month 


MOTHER'S   MARKS.  291 

of  pregnancy,  when  the  child  may  live,  though  not  fully 
developed.  These  labors  come  on  the  same  as  a  natural 
labor,  but,  as  a  rule,  are  not  so  severe.  The  same  general 
management  of  the  mother  is  required,  but  much  more 
care  is  necessary  to  establish  and  sustain  the  vitality  of  the 
child.  Some  women  habitually  begin  labor  at  the  seventh 
month,  and,  as  before  stated,  a  living  child  born  at  that 
time  is  recognized,  the  world  over,  as  legitimate. 

STILL-BIRTH. 

When  a  child  is  born  dead,  it  is  said  to  be  still-born. 
To  be  still-born,  it  must  never  have  breathed.  If  it 
breathes,  it  is  not  still-born,  and  it  is  often  very  important 
that  this  matter  should  be  carefully  noted.  Circumstances 
may  arise  when  the  breathing  of  a  child  involves  very 
important  issues.  If  a  will  is  made  leaving  property  to 
the  children  of  a  certain  man  or  woman,  the  still-born 
child  could  not  inherit,  but,  should  the  child  breathe  and 
die  the  next  minute,  that  child  would  be  the  heir,  and 
must  inherit  the  property,  which  would  go  to  its  parents, 
as  its  natural  heirs.  Any  other  provision  of  the  will 
would  be  annulled  by  the  fact  that  the  child  had  breathed. 

Still-births  are  often  more  difficult  than  natural  labor, 
but  the  general  management  of  the  matter  is  the  same  as 
before  described.  Strict  attention  must  be  paid  to  the 
condition  of  the  breasts,  as  they  will  cake  and  become 
inflamed  if  not  managed  as  described  under  the  article  on 
"  Gathered  Breasts." 

PRE-NATAL   IMPRESSIONS   AND    MOTHER'S   MARKS. 

The  influence  upon  the  child  of  impressions  received 
by  the  mother  during  the  period  of  gestation  is  now  so 
fully  recognized  that   it  is  unnecessary  to  discuss  it.     All 


292  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

who  have  studied  the  subject  admit  that  the  future  well- 
being  of  the  child  depends,  in  a  great  measure,  upon  the 
condition  and  surroundings  of  the  mother  before  its  birth. 
A  delicate,  sickly  mother  cannot  impart  a  healthy  physical 
structure  to  her  child;  nor  can  a  mother  who  is  worried 
and  fretted  by  the  cares  of  life,  who  is  forced  to  live  in  an 
atmosphere  of  discord,  drunkenness  or  debauch,  who 
suffers  from  some  overpowering  grief,  or  who  lives  in  con- 
stant dread  of  poverty  or  abuse,  impart  to  he"r  child  a 
mental  organization  of  healthy,  vigorous  equipoise.  The 
child's  mental  and  physical  conditions  correspond  with  the 
conditions  of  the  mother  during  the  period  of  pregnancy. 
If  the  mother  is  happy,  contented  and  healthy,  her  child 
will  have  an  evenly  balanced  mind  and  body,  and  the 
reverse  is  equally  true. 

How  important,  then,  that  the  pregnant  woman 
should  be  surrounded  by  all  that  makes  life  pleasant  and 
beautiful,  that  promotes  her  own  health  and  satisfies  all 
the  higher  aspirations  of  her  nature;  for  in  this  way  only 
is  the  impress  left  upon  the  fcetus  that  insures  a  perfect 
child. 

A  great  variety  of  marks  and  deformities  which  are 
present  at  birth  are  distinctly  traceable  to  frights  and 
impressions  received  by  the  mother  while  carrying  the 
child.  To  adduce  the  testimony  in  support  of  this  would 
occupy  too  much  space;  but  every  woman  can  find  some 
evidence  on  the  subject  among  her  own  friends.  It  can 
be  laid  down  as  a  rule  that  should  never  be  violated,  that 
a  pregnant  woman  should  not  expose  herself  where  she 
would  be  likely  to  see  any  disgusting  or  horrible  sight, 
where  she  could  be  frightened  in  any  way,  or  where  her 
emotions  were  likely  to  be  strongly  wrought   upon.     All 


mother's  marks.  293 

such  impressions  are  liable  to  leave  their  impress  upon  the 
child,  and  many  of  them  will  mar  its  whole  life. 

Mother's  marks  thus  caused  may  affect  the  habits  and 
disposition  of  the  child,  or  may  cause  deformities  such  as 
discoloration  of  the  skin,  large  moles,  vascular  tumors, 
hare-lip  and  cleft  palate,  deformities  of  the  head,  back 
and  legs,  redundant  fingers  and  toes,  or  abnormal  devel- 
opments in  the  form  of  monstrosities. 

Many  of  these  physical  defects  can  be  remedied  by 
surgical  interference,  but  the  mental  and  moral  remain  as 
a  heritage  from  the  mother  which  the  child  must  carry 
through  life. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

BABYHOOD. 

Care   of  the   New-Born  Babe  —  Infant   Feeding — Baby  Hygiene  — 
Physical  and    Mental   Development. 

BABYHOOD  embraces  the  first  two  years  of  life,  and 
is  in  many  respects  the  most  important  period  of  human 
existence.  We  cannot  conceive  of  a  more  helpless  thing 
than  a  new-born  babe.  It  can  breathe,  utter  a  feeble 
cry,  and  is  possessed  of  a  degree  of  automatic  motion, 
but,  morally  and  intellectually,  it  has  not  commenced  to 
live.  With  proper  nourishment  and  care,  it  begins  to 
grow,  but  it  is  not  till  about  the  third  month  that  we 
notice  the  gradual  dawning  of  intellectual  life. 

During  the  whole  period  of  babyhood  the  child  is 
often  at  the  mercy  of  persons  who  know  nothing  about 
the  care  of  infants,  and  thus  ignorance  and  officious 
interference  not  only  render  it  uncomfortable,  but  also 
lay  the  foundation  for  disease,  and  swell  the  lists  of  infant 
mortality. 

When  it  is  remembered  that  nearly  one-sixth  of  all 
the  children  born  die  before  the  completion  of  their  first 
year,  the  importance  of  a  more  general  knowledge  of  the 
care  of  infants  becomes  apparent.  This  great  mortality 
does  not  result  from  necessity,  but  is  the  natural  sequence 
of  violated  laws.  How,  then,  shall  we  secure  the  health 
of  our  babes  and  diminish  our  yearly  death-rate  of  the 
innocents.  The  essentials  are  few  and  simple,  and  con- 
sist in  securing  for  them   cleanliness,   pure  air,  suitable 

2Q4 


BABYHOOD.  295 

clothing,  proper  food  and   rational   physical,   moral  and 
mental  development. 

CARE   OF   THE    NEW-BORN   BABE. 

As  previously  stated,  the  first  care  of  the  attendant, 
after  the  birth  of  the  child,  should  be  to  see  that  it  breathes 
properly.  If  it  does  not,  the  chest  and  abdomen  should 
be  sprinkled  with  hot  water,  and  the  lower  ribs  should  be 
gently  pressed  upon  with  a  hand  on  each  side,  so  as  to 
promote  artificial  breathing.  After  pressing  in  the  ribs 
for  a  moment,  the  pressure  should  be  removed,  when  air 
will  be  drawn  into  the  lungs,  when  the  pressure  is  again 
applied  and  relaxed,  alternately,  till  the  breathing  is 
established.  Should  this  fail,  a  thin  handkerchief  should 
be  placed  over  the  open  mouth  of  the  child,  when  the 
attendant  places  his  mouth  over  it  and  blows,  so  as  to 
force  air  into  the  lungs.  By  repeating  this  a  few  times, 
and  keeping  up  the  artificial  respiration,  animation  will  be 
established  even  in  cases  where  it  would  seem  to  be 
impossible. 

As  soon  as  the  babe  cries  and  the  cord  is  severed,  it 
should  be  placed  in  a  warm  blanket,  and  left  in  a  safe 
place  till  the  mother  is  cared  for. 

Washing  the  Babe. —  At  birth  the  skin  of  the  child 
is  covered  with  a  white,  tenacious  substance,  called  vernix 
caseosa,  or  cheesy  varnish,  that  is  often  difficult  to  remove. 
To  render  its  removal  easy,  the  entire  body,  including  the 
scalp,  should  be  gently  rubbed  with  vaseline  or  sweet  olive 
oil,  and  this  should  be  left  on  for  about  an  hour.  Then 
the  child  should  be  wiped  with  a  piece  of  soft  flannel, 
which  removes  this  secretion.  The  room  should  be  warm, 
and  the  water  for  washing  the  child  should  feel  quite  warm 


296  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

to  the  hand  of  the  nurse,  or,  if  tested  by  the  thermometer, 
it  should  register  from  920  to  950.  Castile  or  fine  toilet 
soap,  and  a  soft  linen  cloth  should  be  used.  The  greatest 
care  must  be  taken  to  get  the  skin  thoroughly  clean, 
especially  about  the  head,  arm-pits,  groins,  vulva  and 
between  the  buttocks,  but  the  skin  must  not  be  irritated 
by  hard  rubbing.  The  eyes  and  mouth  must  be  thor- 
oughly cleaned  with  clear  water,  and  care  must  be  taken 
to  prevent  the  soap  from  getting  into  the  eyes.  Soft 
towels  should  be  used  for  drying,  which  should  be  done 
by  gently  patting  the  skin,  instead  of  rubbing.  After  the 
skin  is  thoroughly  dried,  it  should  be  powdered  with  fine 
rice-powder,  especially  about  the  neck,  arm-pits,  groins, 
knees  and  vulva. 

Dressing  the  Child.  — Attention  should  next  be 
directed  to  dressing  the  navel.  If  at  hand,  the  stump  of 
the  cord  can  be  wrapped  in  a  thin  layer  of  prepared  ab- 
sorbent cotton,  but  a  piece  of  soft  old  linen  will  answer 
equally  well.  The  linen  should  be  smeared  with  sweet  oil 
or  vaseline  and  wrapped  around  the  cord  so  as  to  cover 
the  cut  end  and  keep  the  whole  from  coming  in  contact 
with  the  skin.  The  cord,  thus  dressed,  is  laid  to  one  side, 
flat  on  the  abdomen,  and  is  retained  in  position  by  a  thin 
flannel  bandage,  about  four  inches  wide,  applied  snugly 
around  the  body,  but  care  must  betaken  not  to  have  it  too 
tight. 

The  babe  is  then  dressed  with  long  skirts,  petticoats 
and  gowns,  made  of  soft,  warm  materials,  all  of  which 
should  be  fastened  by  strings  or  safety-pins.  The  long 
skirts  are  necessary  to  keep  the  feet  and  legs  warm. 

The  diapers  should  be  made  of  canton-flannel  or  soft 
old  linen,  to  prevent  unnecessary  chafing. 


INFANT    FEEDING.  2gj 

A  soft  flannel  shawl  should  be  wrapped  around  the 
shoulders  and  arms  to  complete  the  dressing. 

What  Shall  the  Babe  Eat?  —  Many  people  imag- 
ine that  the  child  must  be  hungry,  and,  as  the  mother  has 
no  milk  at  first,  they  commence  to  feed  it  sugar  and  water, 
catnip  tea,  and  other  old  woman's  decoctions.  Others 
again  administer  a  purgative,  as  manna,  or  castor-oil. 
These  practices  cannot  be  too  strongly  condemned,  as 
they  are  sure  to  derange  the  child's  digestion  from  the 
start,  and  leave  it  a  victim  of  colic  and  wakefulness. 

After  the  child  is  dressed,  it  should  be  given  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cold  water,  but  nothing  else.  It  should  be 
applied  to  the  breast  as  soon  as  the  mother  has  had  a  rest, 
after  the  confinement.  The  mother's  breasts,  from  the  first, 
contain  a  watery  fluid  called  colostrum,  that  not  only  nour- 
ishes the  child,  but  also  acts  as  a  purgative  which  clears 
the  bowels  of  the  dark  excrement  called  the  meconium, 
that  constitutes  the  first  discharge  from  the  bowels.  The 
prompt  removal  of  the  colostrum  by  the  child  makes  room 
for  the  milk,  and  prevents  the  possibility  of  caking  of  the 
breasts. 

INFANT   FEEDING. 

Infant  feeding  is  a  subject  that  has  demanded  and 
received  a  large  share  of  popular  as  well  as  professional 
attention  during  the  past  decade.  A  lengthy  discussion 
of  the  question,  however,  would  occupy  more  space  than 
I  have  at  command,  so  that  I  can  do  no  more  than  state 
the  established  facts  in  brief,  with  the  hope  that  my 
readers  will  be  guided  by  them  in  the  future. 

Human  life  is  divided  into  three  periods,  viz.:  1st, 
the  period  of  growth  ;  2d,  the  period  of  interchange  ;  and 
3d,  the  period  of  decay. 


298  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

The  period  of  growth  begins  with  birth,  and  ends 
with  the  full  development  of  all  the  organs  and  tissues  of 
the  body,  which  usually  includes  twenty  or  twenty-one 
years.  Several  changes  of  food  are  necessary  during  this 
time,  but  articles  containing  nitrogen  must  always  be  sup- 
plied in  greater  quantities  that  at  any  other  period  of  life, 
as  this  class  of  foods  is  essential  for  the  growth  of 
organized  tissues.  The  natural  food  of  infants — mother's 
milk  —  contains  a  proportionately  large  excess  of  nitrog- 
enous matter  over  the  amount  necessary  for  the  food  of 
the  adult,  and  hence  the  growth  of  the  babe  is  very  rapid. 
Analysis  shows  human  milk  to  contain  about  four  per  cent, 
of  nitrogenous  matter,  less  than  three  per  cent,  of  fatty 
matter,  and  about  four  and  one  fourth  per  cent,  of 
sugar. 

Nursing. — A  child  should  have  no  other  kind  of  food 
but  its  mother's  milk  for  at  least  six  months.  As  before 
stated,  it  should  be  applied  to  the  breasts  as  soon  as  the 
mother  has  had  a  few  hours'  rest.  For  the  first  six  or 
eight  weeks  the  child  should  be  nursed  every  two  hours 
during  the  day,  and  every  three  hours  during  the  night. 
After  the  second  month  the  intervals  should  be  gradually 
increased  until  they  reach  three  or  four  hours  during  the 
day,  and  six  or  eight  hours  during  the  night.  The  child 
should  nurse  from  each  breast  alternately. 

The  mother  should  pay  sufficient  attention  to  her  own 
diet  to  be  able  to  furnish  wholesome  food  for  her  child. 
She  should  avoid  all  articles  of  food  that  disagree  with  her, 
should  eat  wholesome  and  nutritious  food  at  all  times,  and 
drink  water  and  milk  in  preference  to  other  fluids.  It 
is  a  mistake  for  a  nursing  mother  to  drink  ale  and  other 
stimulants  to    increase   the  flow   of  milk.      If  she  cannot 


INFANT    FEEDING.  299 

supply  enough    milk    without    these    expedients,  she  had 
better  wean  her  child  at  once. 

The  nursing  mother  should  also  avoid  being  over- 
heated from  any  cause,  as  it  is  sure  to  affect  the  milk. 
She  should  also  avoid  getting  into  a  passion  or  showing 
any  degree  of  temper,  as  all  such  things  influence  the  con- 
dition of  the  child. 

After  the  sixth  month,  the  child  may  be  fed  once  or 
twice  a  day  with  broth  or  beef  tea,  pure  at  first,  but  after- 
ward thickened  with  tapioca,  baked  flour,  biscuit,  etc. ; 
or  it  may  suck  the  juice  from  a  piece  of  steak,  roast  beef, 
or  roast  mutton.  It  is  a  mistake  to  commence  feeding  a 
child'  with  potatoes  and  bread,  at  least  until  after  its  eye 
teeth  are  cut,  as  it  cannot  yet  properly  digest  much  starchy 
food. 

Weaning. — If  the  mother  is  strong  and  has  sufficient 
milk,  a  child  may  be  nursed  till  it  is  a  year  old;  but 
there  are  ma  ay  conditions  that  often  make  it  necessary 
to  wean  it  long  before  that  time. 

If  the  mother's  milk  disagrees  with  the  child,  it  should 
be  weaned  as  soon  as  this  fact  is  apparent.  Should  the 
mother  be  weak  or  debilitated  from  any  cause,  or  be  suf- 
fering from  any  disease,  the  child  should  not  be  allowed 
to  nurse  even  if  there  appears  to  be  an  abundant  supply  of 
milk.  The  child  should  not  nurse  after  the  re-appearance 
of  the  menstrual  flow,  or  after  the  mother  becomes  preg- 
nant. If  the  mother  is  well  and  strong,  it  is  best  to  carry 
a  child  through  an  approaching  summer,  especially  if  the 
child  is  delicate.  In  such  cases  the  child  may  be  nursed 
eighteen  months  or  even  longer.  With  our  better  knowl- 
edge of  artificial  feeding,  however,  the  question  of  weaning 
is  not  so  serious  a  matter  as  it  was  formerly,  as  the  change 


300  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

can   be  effected  without  danger  to  the  digestion  of  the 
child. 

The  proper  way  to  wean  a  child  is  to  stop  giving  it 
the  breast  at  once.  The  child  will  be  satisfied  in  the  day- 
time, but  at  night  it  should  sleep  away  from  its  mother  for 
a  few  nights.  Even  the  child  can  be  made  to  feel  that  this 
is  the  best  way,  and  the  effect  is  much  better  than  when 
bitter  applications  are  made  to  the  nipples. 

Artificial  Feeding. — When  a  mother  finds  herself 
unable  to  nurse  her  child,  a  wet-nurse  is,  of  course,  the 
next  best  thing.  The  selection  of  a  wet-nurse,  however, 
is  a  matter  that  requires  the  utmost  care,  as  it  is  necessary 
that  she  should  be  perfectly  healthy  and  of  a  good  disposition. 
No  nurse  can  care  for  two  children  and  supply  them  with 
sufficient  food,  and,  when  it  is  attempted,  both  children 
suffer.  It,  therefore,  goes  without  saying,  that  a  woman 
who  has  a  living  child  should  not  be  engaged  to  wet-nurse 
another.  The  wet-nurse  should  also  be  selected  with 
reference  to  the  age  of  her  milk,  and  her  own  confine- 
ment should  have  been  as  near  as  possible  to  the  birth  of 
the  child  she  is  to  nurse. 

It  is  not  always  possible  to  procure  a  wet-nurse,  and, 
therefore,'  we  must  have  recourse  to  such  artificial  foods  as 
can  be  best  provided. 

The  common  custom  is  to  substitute  cow's  milk  by 
reducing  it  one-half  or  two-thirds  with  water,  which  so 
reduces  the  quantity  of  the  nutritious  elements  that  the 
child  is  not  half  nourished.  The  proper  method  of 
preparing  cow's  milk  for  infant  feeding  is  best  shown 
by  a  comparison  of  the  analysis  of  cow's  and  human 
milk. 


INFANT    FEEDING.  301 

The  subjoined  table  shows  the  quantities  of  the  dif- 
ferent ingredients  contained  in  1,000  parts  of  milk; 

Nitrog- 
Water.         enous      Butter.      Sugar.       Salts.      Total. 
Matters. 

Woman's  milk 889.08         39.24         26.66         43.64         1.34         1,000 

Cow's  milk 864.06         55-15         36.00         38.00         6.64         1,000 

It  will  thus  be  seen  that  the  cow's  milk  contains  more 
nitrogenous  matter  (caseine)  and  more  fat  (butter)  and  less 
sugar  and  water,  than  woman's  milk.  Without  an  accu- 
rate chemical  test,  then,  we  can  say  that  cow's  milk  should 
only  be  reduced  by  mixing  four-fifths  milk  and  one-fifth 
water;  that  is,  by  adding  one  ounce  of  water  to  four 
ounces  of  milk,  and  then  adding  a  few  grains  of  sugar  of 
milk.      After  the  third  month  the  milk  can  be  given  pure. 

Many  people  recommend  the  use  of  condensed  milk, 
but  my  experience  in  its  use  has  been  anything  but  favor- 
able. 

In  fact,  the  unfavorable  conditions  that  so  often  fol- 
low even  the  use  of  cow's  milk,  carefully  prepared,  has 
caused  much  attention  to  be  devoted  to  the  preparation 
of  infants'  foods,  and  a  large  number  have  been  given  to 
the  public,  each  of  which  has  been  recommended  as  supe- 
rior to  any  other  food  for  infants.  For  a  long  time  I  was 
disposed  to  stick  to  the  cow's  milk,  prepared  as  above, 
but  I  found  so  much  difficulty  in  the  digestion  of  the 
caseine,  or  cheese,  that  I  was  forced  to  look  around  for 
some  food  that  would  be  free  from  this  objection,  and  I 
have  found  one  in  — 

Carnrick's  Soluble  Food. — This  food  is  composed 
of  the  solid  constituents  of  milk,  sugar-of-milk  and  the 
finest  quality  of  wheat.  The  starch  in  the  wheat  is  con- 
verted into  dextrine   and   soluble   starch,   by  being  kept 


302  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

for  eight  hours  at  a  temperature  of  nearly  300  degrees 
Fahrenheit.  To  make  the  caseine,  or  cheesy  part,  of  the 
cow's  milk  as  easily  digestible  as  that  of  human  milk,  it  is 
sufficiently  predigested  with  pancreatine  to  render  it 
impossible  to  be  formed  into  hard  and  indigestible  curds 
in  the  child's  stomach. 

This  food  is  put  up  in  one  and  five  pound  cans,  and 
each  can  contains  a  scoop  or  measure,  with  which  to 
measure  out  the  quantity  of  food  required  for  a  meal. 
Full  directions  for  preparing  will  be  found  on  each  can, 
but  the  nurse  should  always  prepare  enough  portions  to 
last  the  child  through  the  night.  This  food  will  keep  any 
length  of  time,  it  requires  no  addition  of  milk,  is  always 
ready  for  use,  and  can  be  prepared  for  the  child  in  a  few 
moments.  It  is  also  free  from  the  fermentations  that 
occur  in  milk,  and  from  the  development  of  poisons,  such 
as  tyrotoxicon,  which  often  causes  cholera  infantum  and 
other  intestinal  disorders. 

Personal  experience  in  the  use  of  this  food  in  my  own 
family  has  led  me  to  adopt  it,  and  since  then  I  have  used 
and  recommended  no  other.  Not  only  does  the  child 
thrive,  but  the  flesh  is  hard  and  firm,  the  skin  has  a  healthy 
glow,  and  every  function  of  the  body  seems  to  be  perfectly 
performed.  I  have  recommended  it  in  a  great  many  cases, 
and  always  with  the  same  good  results. 

Another  preparation  called  Lacto-Prefiarata,  which  is 
prepared  wholly  from  milk,  with  the  caseine  digested  as  in 
the  Soluble  Food,  and  part  of  the  butter  replaced  by  cocoa 
butter,  is  recommended  to  be  used  during  the  first  six 
months.  For  delicate  children  this  is  certainly  the  best 
food  that  can  be  used,  but  after  the  sixth  month  the 
Soluble  Food  should  be  substituted  for  it. 


INFANT    FEEDING.  303 

The  Soluble  Food  is  all  the  child  requires  till  about  the 
twelfth  month,  after  which  the  soups,  broths,  etc.,  can  be 
given,  as  previously  recommended.  Until  teething  is 
completed,  however,  the  Soluble  Food  should  constitute 
the  principal  diet  of  the  child  ;  and  even  in  the  earlier 
years  of  childhood  it  will  be  found  valuable  in  all  cases  of 
sickness  where  other  foods  cannot  be  tolerated. 

Milk  can  be  mixed  with  this  food,  but  experience  has 
taught  me  that  the  child  thrives  best  when  it  is  prepared 
with  water  alone. 

Nursing  Bottles. — Nursing  bottles  with  long  tubes 
should  never  be  used,  for  it  is  impossible  to  keep  them 
clean,  and,  when  particles  of  food  remaining  in  the  tube 
sour,  serious  troubles  of  the  stomach  and  bowels  are  sure 
to  follow.  The  plain  black-rubber  nipple  is  the  best,  and 
can  be  used  on  any  narrow-necked  bottle  that  has  a  rim  at 
its  edge.  Several  of  these  should  always  be  on  hand, 
and  they,  as  well  as  the  bottles,  should  be  thoroughly 
cleansed  after  using. 

Temperature  of  Food. —  In  artificial  feeding  the 
temperature  of  the  food  is  an  important  matter.  If  it 
could  always  be  given  at  a  uniformly  tepid  temperature, 
no  doubt  that  would  be  the  best;  but,  as  the  food  is  apt  to 
be  too  hot  at  one  time  and  cold  at  another,  it  is  best  that 
it  should  be  allowed  to  stand  for  an  hour  in  the  living 
room  before  using,  and  then  given  to  the  child  without 
heating.  This  insures  a  uniformity  of  temperature  that 
will  always  be  found  to  agree  with  the  child.  In  cold 
weather  the  bottle  should  be  placed  in  a  kettle  of  water  of 
ioo°  temperature  for  ten  minutes,  which  will  take  the 
chill  off  the  milk  before  the  child  takes  it. 


304  FACTS    FOR   LADIES. 

Thirst  of  Infants. —  Infants  often  fret  and  cry, 
and  yet  refuse  to  take  food.  In  such  cases  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cold  water  should  be  given  from  a  nursing- 
bottle,  when  it  will  be  found  that  the  child  takes  it  eagerly, 
and  is  quieted  at  once.  In  fact,  a  child  should  always 
be  given  a  drink  of  water  when  it  is  fretful  between  the 
regular  hours  for  feeding.  If  the  child  is  constipated,  a 
drink  of  cold  water  should  be  given  three  or  four  times 
a  day. 

Food  for  Second  Year. — After  the  twelfth  month, 
it  is  usual  to  feed  the  babe  on  more  substantial  food.  It 
is  seated  at  the  table,  and  is  too  often  supplied  with  all 
that  is  before  it  at  each  meal.  This  is  a  serious  mistake, 
and  often  leads  to  fatal  results.  Soluble  Food,  when  used, 
can  be  continued  as  the  principal  article  of  diet  during  the 
second  year  of  babyhood,  and  should  be  substituted  for 
the  mother's  milk  when  the  baby  is  weaned  In  addition 
to  this,  animal  broths  may  be  given  once  or  twice  a  day, 
or  a  piece  of  steak  or  roast  beef  may  be  given  for  the 
child  to  suck,  but  solid  meats,  potatoes,  sweet  cakes,,  and 
large  quantities  of  bread  should  be  avoided,  as  the 
stomach  is  not  yet  ready  to  digest  such  solid  foods.  Of 
course  all  foods  should  now  be  given  with  a  spoon,  even 
when  the  bottle  has  been  previously  used. 

BABY    HYGIENE. 

The  health  of  the  baby  is  the  first  requisite  for  health 
in  after  life,  and  every  woman  should  understand  how  to 
care  for  a  babe,  so  as  to  insure  its  good  health  as  years  go 
by.     Everything  should  be  done  for  the  child  in  a  sys- 


BABY   HYGIENE.  305 

tematic  way,  and  thus  the  foundation  for  regular  habits  is 
laid  that  will  usually  prove  serviceable  through  life. 

Aside  from  the  feeding  of  the  infant,  the  daily 
observance  of  hygienic  laws  must  be  insisted  upon. 
These  are  best  considered  under  the  following  heads;  viz. : 
bathing,  clothing,  sleep,  exercise,  and  fresh  air. 

Bathing. — The  babe  should  be  washed  every  morn- 
ing, but  the  bathing  should  be  done  as  quickly  as  pos- 
sible. After  the  child  is  stripped,  it  should  be  wrapped 
in  a  woolen  blanket  or  shawl,  when  its  head  and  face 
should  be  carefully  washed,  special  care  being  taken  to 
thoroughly  cleanse  the  eyes,  nose,  ears  and  neck.  The 
eyes  and  face  should  be  washed  first  without  soap,  after 
which  soap  may  be  used.  The  mouth,  tongue  and  gums 
should  then  be  cleansed  with  a  fine  piece  of  old  linen 
cloth  and  clean  water,  and  then  a  couple  of  spoon- 
fuls of  water  should  be  given  as  a  drink.  Then,  with 
enough  of  water  to  cover  the  body  and  shoulders,  the 
child  should  be  placed  in  the  baby's  bath-tub,  and  gently, 
but  quickly  washed  from  neck  to  feet,  care  being  taken  to 
thoroughly  cleanse  the  arm-pits,  groins,  between  the  but- 
tocks and  between  the  thighs.  The  water  should  be  luke- 
warm (from  92  to  94  degrees),  and  a  very  fine  sponge  or  a 
fine  piece  of  old  flannel,  with  castile  or  fine  toilet  soap, 
should  be  used.  As  soon  as  the  child  is  properly  washed, 
it  should  be  wrapped  in  the  blanket,  and  dried  quickly 
with  soft  towels  pressed  and  gently  patted  on  the  skin. 
Scrubbing  and  rubbing  with  cloths  and  sponges  must  be 
avoided,  but  every  part  must  be  thoroughly  dried. 

All    parts    that   are  likely   to  chafe    should  be   well 


306  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

powdered  as  soon  as  the  skin  is  dried.  The  arms,  legs, 
back,  chest  and  abdomen  should  then  be  gently  rubbed 
with  the  palm  of  the  hand,  thus  giving  a  healthy  glow  to 
the  skin,  which  prevents  the  taking  of  cold.  During  this 
rubbing,  however,  the  body  must  not  be  unnecessarily 
exposed. 

A  sponge,  with  a  little  warm  water,  should  be  used  to 
thoroughly  cleanse  the  child  after  each  action  of  the 
bowels  or  bladder,  and  it  should  always  be  changed  as  soon 
as  soiled,  in  order  to  keep  the  child  comfortable  and  to 
prevent  chafing. 

The  abdomen,  around  the  stump  of  the  cord,  should 
be  carefully  cleansed,  but  the  dressing  of  the  cord  should 
not  be  removed  till  a  natural  separation  takes  place.  If 
the  dressing  becomes  hard,  a  little  vaseline  or  sweet  oil 
should  be  applied  to  it,  but  the  cord  should  never  be 
pulled  till  it  drops  off  itself.  After  it  has  separated,  a  soft 
piece  of  cotton  cloth  should  be  placed  over  the  navel 
before  applying  the  roller.  If  this  should  stick  to  the 
surface,  it  should  not  be  forcibly  removed,  and,  if  it 
should  still  adhere  after  the  bath,  a  drop  or  two  of  oil 
may  be  applied,  and  a  fresh  piece  of  cloth  applied  over  it. 

Chafing  and  Excoriation. —  The  skin  around  the 
anus  and  genitals,  and  between  the  thighs,  often  becomes 
chafed  or  reddened,  and  in  some  cases  it  becomes  so 
excoriated  as  to  become  very  painful.  To  overcome 
this  condition,  the  parts  must  be  scrupulously  cleansed, 
and  should  then  be  bathed  with  a  carbolic  acid  wash,  about 
the  strength  of  fifteen  drops  of  carbolic  acid  to  a  goblet  of 
water.     The  parts  must  then   be  thoroughly  dried,  and 


BABY    HYGIENE.  307 

dusted  with  finely  powdered  subnitrate  of  bismuth.  This 
should  be  done  every  time  the  diaper  is  changed.  Oint- 
ments and  grease  of  all  kinds  should  be  avoided. 

CLOTHING. — The  errors  in  infant  clothing  are  often 
productive  of  much  harm,  and  a  careful  consideration  of 
the  different  articles  is  not  out  of  place  here. 

The  bandage  is,  as  a  rule,  applied  too  tightly,  and 
therefore  gives  rise  to  colic,  constipation,  difficult  breath- 
ing, and  the  beginning  of  compression  of  the  ribs,  that 
usually  interferes  with  natural  development  of  the  thoracic 
and  abdominal  viscera.  The  only  use  of  the  bandage  is 
to  hold  the  dressings  of  the  cord,  and  even  for  this  it 
should  be  loosely  applied.  As  soon  as  the  cord  separates, 
and  the  navel  has  healed,  the  bandage  should  be  discarded. 
This  allows  a  natural  expansion  of  the  lungs  and  a  devel- 
opment of  the  abdominal  muscles,  without  the  danger  of 
displacement  of  any  of  the  organs. 

The  diapers  should  not  be  of  new,  harsh  linen,  but  of 
old,  well-worn  linen,  or  canton  flannel.  They  should  be 
washed  and  thoroughly  dried,  even  after  each  discharge 
of  urine,  as  it  insures  against  the  chafing  so  common 
where  the  diapers  are  dried  after  being  wet,  without  wash- 
ing. 

A  fine,  seamless  knitted  shirt  should  be  worn  next 
the  skin,  and  the  sleeves  should  extend  to  the  wrist. 

The  petticoats  should  be  of  fine  flannel,  and  their 
waists  should  be  of  canton  flannel,  instead  of  the  harsh, 
stiff  cotton  material  of  which  they  are  usually  made.  The 
waist  should  not  be  more  than  four  inches  wide,  and 
should  never  be  pinned  too  tightly. 


308  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

The  dress  should  also  be  of  fine  texture  and  of  white 
material. 

The  dresses  and  petticoats  should  be  sufficiently  long 
to  wrap  up  the  feet  so  as  to  keep  them  warm,  but  the 
extreme  length  adopted  by  many  mothers  is  a  burden  for 
the  child  and  an  unnecessary  inconvenience  for  those  tak- 
ing care  of  it.  After  the  second  or  third  month,  if  the 
child  is  healthy,  the  skirts  should  be  shortened  to  a  few 
inches  below  the  feet,  and  fine  woolen  socks  should  be 
worn.  At  about  the  eighth  month  they  should  be  further 
shortened,  so  as  to  extend  no  further  than  the  ankles. 
This  gives  opportunity  for  the  free  motion  of  the  feet  and 
legs,  which  should  not  be  restrained  under  any  circum- 
stances. The  clothing  worn  during  the  day  should  not  be 
worn  at  night,  and  it  is  always  best  to  use  fine  flannels  for 
the  baby's  nightgown. 

All  the  clothing  should  be  loose,  so  as  not  to  make 
undue  pressure  about  the  stomach,  chest,  neck  or  arms, 
and  tapes  or  safety-pins  should  always  be  used. 

The  clothes  should  be  well  dried,  and  should  never  be 
pu.t  on  while  damp,  nor  should  they  be  put  on  when  taken 
hot  from  before  the  fire. 

The  custom  of  putting  caps  on  infants,  which  is  still 
followed  by  many,  is  sure  to  keep  the  head  too  warm  and 
cause  undue  perspiration,  which  renders  the  child  liable  to 
catch  cold.  Under  all  circumstances  the  child  is  better 
without  caps,  either  day  or  night. 

When  a  child  is  taken  out,  a  knitted  worsted  sack 
should  be  put  on,  and  over  this  a  long  warm  cloak  should 
be  worn.  A  knitted  worsted  hood  and  a  veil  of  the  same 
material  should  be  worn  in  cold  weather,  but  in  mild 
weather  the  veil  should  not  be  worn.     When  the  weather 


BABY    HYGIENE.  .  309 

is  real  cold,  a  warm  shawl  should  be  wrapped  around  the 
other  wraps  so  as  to  cover  all  but  the  face. 

Exercise  and  Fresh  Air.  —  After  the  first  wash- 
ing of  the  babe,  a  system  of  exercise  should  be  adopted. 
The  arms,  legs,  abdomen,  and  back  should  be  gently 
rubbed  with  the  palm  of  the  hand  after  the  morning  bath, 
and  the  arms  and  legs  freely  moved  before  it  is  dressed. 

In  summer  time  the  child  should  be  carried  in  the 
open  air  daily,  after  it  is  a  week  old,  excepting  in  damp 
weather;  but  in  winter  it  should  not  be  taken  out  till  it  is 
six  or  eight  weeks  old,  and  then  not  when  it  is  very  cold. 
After  the  fourth  month,  the  child  should  be  kept  out  for 
an  hour  at  least  every  day  when  it  is  clear  overhead. 
The  face  should  not  be  covered  except  in  very  cold 
weather. 

A  good  exercise  for  a  child  after  the  fourth  month  is 
to  lay  it  on  its  back,  on  a  couch  or  rug,  with  the  diaper 
removed,  and  allow  it  to  kick  and  stretch  its  arms  and  legs. 
The  arms  may  be  gently  pulled  upward  and  sideways,  and 
the  legs  downward  and  slightly  outward,  a  few  times. 

The  child  may  be  gently  moved  up  and  down,  but 
should  never  be  violently  tossed,  as  is  so  often  done. 
This  violent  motion  frightens  the  child,  interferes  with  its 
digestion,  and  sometimes  even  brings  on  convulsions. 

Perfect  quiet  directly  after  feeding  should  always  be 
imperative,  as  motion  within  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 
causes  the  child  to  eject  part  of  its  food  and  gives  rise  to 
indigestion 

It  is  a  bad  plan  to  urge  a  child  to  stand  alone  and 
walk  too  soon.  It  is  equally  unwise  to  urge  it  to  creep. 
Let  it  sit  on  the  floor,  and,  if  it  creeps  of  its  own  accord,  it 
will  secure  muscular  development  without  any  injury.     -A 


3IO  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

child  attempts  to  stand  and  walk  as  soon  as  its  bones  and 
muscles  are  prepared  for  doing  so.  Before  this  every 
attempt  weakens  the  muscles  and  causes  the  bones  to  bend, 
thus  producing  the  deformities  known  as  bow-legs  and 
knock-knees. 

Sleep. —  A  healthy  babe  sleeps  the  greater  part  of 
the  time  during  the  first  two  months,  only  awaking  for  its 
food,  and  then  going  to  sleep  again.  Its  face  should 
never  be  covered  while  asleep,  but  it  should  be  shaded 
from  strong  light.  It  should  be  warmly  covered  during 
the  day,  and  should  sleep  with  its  mother  or  nurse  at  night 
for  the  first  two  months.  This  is  essential  to  supply  the 
animalheat  in  which  it  is  deficient  during  the  first  weeks 
of  life.  After  the  second  month  it  is  best  for  the  child 
that  it  should  sleep  alone,  especially  if  it  is  healthy,  and 
its  extremities  keep  warm.  It  should  be  left  alone  on 
awaking,  if  it  is  quiet,  as  talking  to  it  and  taking  it  up  at 
once  excites  it,  and  prevents  it  from  acquiring  the 
habit  of  going  to  sleep  quietly. 

We  are  often  asked,  "  Should  a  child  be  rocked  to 
sleep,  in  arms,  or  in  a  cradle?  "  At  the  present  time 
many  claim  that  rocking  is  injurious,  and  should  never  be 
practiced;  but  I  can  see  no  special  harm  in  moderate 
rocking,  and  certainly  the  monotonous  motion  often  lulls 
to  sleep  when  nothing  else  will. 

After  the  second  month  the  child  sleeps  less,  and,  as 
soon  as  it  begins  to  notice,  it  will  not  be  content  to 
remain  quiet  as  before.  If  an  attempt  is  made  to  put  it  to 
sleep,  it  will  fret  and  worry,  and  will  be  quiet  as  soon  as 
taken  up.  Under  such  circumstances  the  child  should  be 
held  by  the  nurse  till  it  becomes  sleepy,  when  it  will  drop 
to  sleep  as  soon  as  it  is  laid  down. 


TEETHING.  311 

The  living-room  of  the  child  should  be  kept  comfort- 
ably warm  (about  70  degrees),  and  should  be  frequently 
ventilated  to  keep  the  air  pure. 

When  a  child  cries  and  is  fretful  and  restless,  it  is 
either  hungry  or  in  pain,  and  the  cause  of  its  distress 
should  be  sought  at  once.  If  it  has  been  fed  at  regular 
intervals  and  the  feeding-time  has  not  come  around,  atten- 
tion must  be  directed  to  the  teething  and  such  conditions 
as  are  described  in  Chapter  IX.,  in  order  to  give  prompt 
relief. 

The  practice  of  giving  infants  soothing  sirups,  pare- 
goric and  other  sleeping  mixtures,  cannot  be  too  strongly 
condemned.  They  doubtless  insure  long  periods  of  sleep, 
but  are  sure  to  ruin  the  digestion  and  the  nervous  system  of 
the  child,  and  lay  the  foundation  for  a  chain  of  disorders 
that  will  surely  terminate  in  death.  There  is  no  question 
that  the  use  of  such  drugs,  to  produce  sleep,  contributes 
largely  to  the  high  percentage  of  infant  mortality  we  are 
yearly  obliged  to  record,  and  greatly  increases  the  num- 
ber of  puny,  sickly  children  we  see  all  around  us. 

TEETHING. 

The  period  of  dentition,  or  teething,  is  generally 
looked  upon  as  a  critical  one  in  the  life  of  the  infant,  and 
the  cutting  of  teeth  is  usually  regarded  as  an  abnormal 
process.  On  the  contrary,  it  is  a  natural  physiological 
development  which  is  essential  to  prepare  the  child  for  a 
change  of  diet.  The  teething  period  so  often  commences 
or  extends  into  the  summer,  when  so  many  causes  are 
operative  in  producing  disturbances  of  the  digestive 
organs,  that  it  has  come  to  be  popularly  regarded  as  the 
primary  causes  of  these  disorders.      A  more  careful  exam- 


312  FACTS   FOR  LADIES. 

ination,  however,  will  readily  disprove  this  fallacy,  and 
thus  allow  us  to  look  upon  teething  in  a  rational  way,  and 
to  more  carefully  examine  into  the  causes  that  give  rise  to 
the  disorders  associated  with  this  process. 

It  is  not  easy  to  fix  the  time  at  which  teething  begins. 
As  a  rule,  infants  begin  to  cut  their  teeth  about  the  seventh 
month,  though  some  have  teeth  at  three  months,  and  others 
do  not  have  any  at  nine  months.  Usually  the  child  begins 
to  slobber  about  the  fourth  month,  thus  showing  an 
increased  action  of  the  salivary  glands.  After  this,  there 
is  an  irritation  of  the  gums,  and  the  child  has  the  desire  to 
bite  on  anything  it  can  get  hold  of.  At  times  the  child  is 
fretful  and  restless,  and  slight  fever  may  be  noticed/  The 
tenderness  of  the  gums  prevents  it  from  taking  its  food 
regularly,  and  thus  derangement  of  digestion  or  looseness 
of  the  bowels  may  come  on.  This  excitement  is  allayed 
after  the  first  tooth  appears,  and  is  seldom  as  marked  during 
the  remainder  of  the  period  of  teething.  If,  however, 
there  is  much  intestinal  disturbance,  especially  in  feeble 
children,  the  cutting  of  the  molars  and  canine  teeth  is 
attended  with  more  irritation  than  the  first. 

The  first,  or  temporary,  teeth  are  twenty  in  number, 
and  are  developed  during  the  first  two  years.  Of  these 
eight  are  incisors,  or  cutting  teeth ;  four  canine ,  or  dog 
teeth,  and  eight  molars,  or  grinders.  The  first  teeth  are 
cut  in  pairs,  and  the  lower  front  incisors  are  usually  the 
first  to  make  their  appearance;  then  the  two  upper  front 
incisors  come  through  the  gum.  Next  in  order  come  the 
upper  two  lateral  incisors,  one  on  each  side,  and  after  these 
the  lower  two  lateral  incisors.  Then  come  the  first  molars 
in  the  lower  jaw,  followed  by  the  first  molars  in  the  upper 
jaw,  after  which  the  lower  canine  or  eye  teeth,  and  then 


TEETHING.  313 

the  upper  canine,  appear.  The  second  molars  in  the  lower 
and  upper  jaws  are  the  last,  and  these  are  not  cut  till  the 
child  is  about  two  years  old.  While  this  is  the  order  in 
which  the  teeth  usually  appear,  yet  they  may  show  them- 
selves in  an  entirely  different  rotation. 

Gum-sticks  and  rings  made  of  bone,  when  given  to  a 
child  to  bite  on,  often  harden  the  gums,  and  thus  the  cut- 
ting of  the  teeth  is  made  more  difficult.  If  anything  of 
the  kind  is  used,  a  soft  rubber  ring  will  be  found  the  most 
serviceable.  As  a  rule,  the  child  prefers  its  own  thumbs 
and  fingers,  and  it  is  a  mistaken  idea  to  suppose  that  it 
should  be  prevented  from  sucking  them.  It  is  a  comfort 
to  the  babe  to  bite  and  suck  its  thumbs,  which  it  has 
always  at  hand,  and  doing  so  causes  an  increased  flow  of 
saliva,  which  allays  the  heat  of  the  gums  during  teething. 

If  the  gum  is  swollen  and  red,  and  the  tooth  appears 
to  be  under  the  skin  forseveral  days,  the  physician  should 
be  called  in  to  lance  it;  but  it  is  never  wise  to  lance  the 
gums  when  the  teeth  are  not  near  the  surface.  In  such 
cases  the  wound  heals  before  (the  tooth  comes  through, 
and  this  forms  a  hard  scar  which  the  tooth  cannot  pene- 
trate, thus  rendering  the  second,  or  even  the  third,  lan- 
cing necessary. 

The  child's  neck  and  chest  should  be  protected  by 
soft  bibs,  so  that  it  will  not  be  kept  constantly  wet  by  the 
dribbling  saliva,  and  for  the  better  protection  an  oiled-silk 
bib  may  be  used  under  the  muslin  or  flannel  ones. 

Treatment. — In  uncomplicated  teething,  very  little 
treatment  is  required.  In  addition  to  its  daily  bath,  a  hot 
foot-bath  may  be  given  once  or  twice  a  day.  If  the  bowels 
are  constipated,  a  teaspoonful  of  compound  sirup  of  rhu- 
barb and  potash  should  be  given  every  hour  till  the  bowels 


314  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

are  moved.  If  the  child  is  feverish  and  restless  the  follow- 
ing will  be  found  serviceable:  Tincture  aconite  root,  5 
drops;  tincture  gelsemium  (fresh  root),  10  drops;  water,  4 
ounces.  Mix,  and  give  a  teaspoonful  every  half-hour  till 
quieted.  Other  complications  will  be  treated  of  in  Chap- 
ter IX. 

PHYSICAL  AND  MENTAL  DEVELOPMENT. 

It  is  not  enough  that  a  babe's  physical  wants  should 
be  supplied.  We  know  that,  as  helpless  as  a  newly  born 
babe  is,  with  proper  nourishment  and  care  it  immediately 
begins  to  grow;  that  proper  attention  to  the  hygienic 
rules  heretofore  laid  down,  is  essential  to  its  physical 
comfort;  but  we  do  not  know  how  soon  the  intellectual 
life  begins  to  dawn.  Close  observation  will  prove  that 
there  is  some  mental  activity  after  a  few  weeks.  Though 
feeble  at  first,  this  activity  is  strengthened  day  by  day, 
and  soon  every  word  and  action  of  those  around  are 
impressed  upon  the  infant  mind,  which  cannot  but  be 
influenced  to  a  great  extent  by  these  first  impressions. 

How  important,  then,  that  parents  should  guard  well 
this  formative  period  of  mental  life,  and  surround  their 
baby  with  such  things  as  will  produce  good  impressions. 
Wrangling  and  contention,  and  the  slightest  show  of 
temper,  should  be  carefully  guarded  against  even  before 
very  young  children,  and,  when  they  begin  to  talk  and  ask 
innocent  questions,  they  should  never  be  put  off  with  a 
cross  word  or  with  an  untruthful  answer.  Never  tell  a  lie 
to  a  child  if  you  do  not  wish  to  make  it  a  liar  ;  do  not 
teach  it  to  do  right  for  the  sake  of  reward  or  fear  of  punish- 
ment, and  do  not  punish  it  for  imitating  even  the  vices 
of  others,  but  rather  remember  that  a  child  develops  by 
imitation,  and,  if  you  would  lay  the  proper  foundation  for 


PHYSICAL    AND     MENTAL    DEVELOPMENT.  3 1 5 

its  moral  education,  your  own  lives  must  be  above  re- 
proach. In  short,  you  must  yourselves  be  everything 
you  would  have  your  child  be,  for  every  child  derives  the 
bent  of  its  moral  life  from  the  example  of  those  around  it. 

After  the  third  month  the  mother  or  nurse,  with 
patience  and  kindness,  can  impress  the  infant  mind  so  as 
to  direct  its  action  and  form  its  habits.  It  can  soon  be 
taught  to  have  an  action  of  the  bowels  and  pass  its  urine 
when  held  out  for  that  purpose,  and  to  wait  for  stated 
intervals  for  its  food.  So,  too,  can  it  be  impressed  to  lie 
down  to  sleep  after  feeding. 

As  soon  as  it  begins  to  follow  a  bright  light  with  its 
eyes,  it  should  be  surrounded  by  beautiful  and  pleasing 
objects,  and  thus  a  taste  for  the  beautiful  is  developed  ; 
and,  if  it  frequently  hears  good  music,  it  will  soon  show  a 
fondness  for  it. 

The  utmost  care  should  be  taken  to  speak  correctly 
in  the  hearing  of  children  even  from  birth,  and  the  habit 
of  using  baby-talk  cannot  be  too  strongly  condemned. 
If  the  same  effort  is  made  to  make  children  speak  correctly 
at  first,  as  is  required  to  correct  their  errors  of- speech  a 
little  later,  we  would  soon  notice  a  great  improvement  in 
the  use  of  our  language. 

In  short,  if  we  desire  to  have  perfectly  developed 
children,  both  physically  and  mentally,  they  should  be  the 
objects  of  our  greatest  solicitude  from  the  moment  of  con- 
ception to  maturity.  The  prenatal  condition  of  the  child 
must  be  first  considered,  and  then  we  must  see  to  it,  that, 
during  the  period  of  babyhood,  while  physical  develop- 
ment goes  on,  the  moral  and  intellectual  growth  is  so 
guarded  and  directed  as  to  insure  a  mental  development 
that  will  fit  the  child  for  a  noble  and  useful  life. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

CHILDHOOD. 

Development  of  Both  Sexes  Alike  Till  Puberty — Education  of  Chil- 
dren—  Hygiene  of  Childhood. 

Childhood  begins  with  the  end  of  the  second  year, 
and  extends  to  the  age  of  puberty.  This  is  a  period  of 
growth  and  development  to  which  too  little  attention  has 
heretofore  been  given.  Under  our  present  system,  baby- 
hood is  scarcely  passed  before  the  question  of  sex  enters 
into  every  thought  for  the  future  training  of  the  child. 
Perchance,  a  boy  is  allowed  to  romp  and  play,  in  the  fields, 
garden,  streets,  or  any  place  where  he  can  find  room  to 
run  and  jump,  to  laugh  and  shout,  to  roll  and  tumble 
with  the  natural  freedom  of  childhood,  but  the  girl  is 
decked  out  with  white  dresses  and  a  profusion  of  ribbons 
from  the  time  she  is  two  or  three  years  of  age,  and  every 
childish  impulse  of  her  nature  is  dampened  by  being  con- 
stantly reminded  that  she  will  soil  her  dress,  or  that  it  is 
unladylike  to  follow  the  example  of  her  brother. 

This  is  all  wrong.  Girls  as  well  as  boys  require 
a  perfect  physical  development,  and  in  early  childhood 
we  cannot  do  better  than  to  allow  children  to  follow  their 
own  instincts  in  this  direction.  It  is  as  natural  for  a  child 
to  play  as  for  a  lamb  to  frisk  in  the  field,  and  this  play  is 
necessary  for  the  proper  physical  development  of  girls 
and  boys  alike.  Then,  leave  them  to  play  together  from 
their  earliest  childhood,  impose   no    restraints    upon    one 

that  you  would  not   upon  the   other,  let  them  obey  the 

3i6 


EDUCATION   OF    CHILDREN.  317 

same  hygienic  laws  regarding  food,  sleep,  exercise  and 
clothing,  and,  above  all,  do  not  subject  them  to  school 
discipline  too  soon. 

The  observance  of  rules  herein  laid  down  will  insure 
a  gradual  normal  development  of  all  the  organs  of  the  body, 
and,  when  the  period  of  maidenhood  arrives,  normal  func- 
tion will  be  the  outcome  of  perfect  structural  development. 
The  maiden  is  then  prepared  to  fit  herself  for  her  higher 
duties  of  life  without  being  held  back  by  any  tyranny  of 
organization,  as  explained  in  the  chapter  on "  Maiden- 
hood." 

EDUCATION   07   CHILDREN. 

It  is  a  mistaken  idea  that  children  should  be  well 
advanced  in  school  before  the  age  of  ten,  for  such  ad- 
vancement is  sure  to  be  at  the  expense  of  their  physical 
development.  Most  of  a  child's  early  education  results 
from  observation.  Every  new  object  it  sees  has  special 
interest  for  it,  and  every  answer  given  to  its  childish  ques- 
tions forms  a  part  of  its  education.  Thus,  while  attaining 
a  physical  development,  mental  growth  goes  on  through 
the  perceptive  faculties,  and  a  child  often  learns  more  in 
this  way  than  in  the  school-room. 

When  school  life  begins,  there  should  be  more  time 
for  play  than  for  study,  and  for  this  reason  a  well  regulated 
kindergarten,  where  object  teaching  and  amusements  are 
associated,  is  the  best  for  young  children.  I  would  always 
insist  on  co-education,  and,  as  soon  as  the  children  are 
capable  of  understanding,  they  should  be  instructed  in 
anatomy  and  physiology.  Let  them  be  thoroughly  in- 
formed regarding  the  structure  of  their  own  bodies,  the 
functions  of  their  various   organs   and  the  hygienic  laws 


31  8  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

that  will  enable  them  to  preserve  health  and  prevent  dis- 
ease, and  let  them  enter  the  lists  for  a  higher  education 
side  by  side. 

Children  should  not  be  subjected  to  rigid  routine,  and 
for  this  reason  competent  teachers  should  be  selected,  who, 
from  their  knowledge  of  the  ways  and  peculiarities  of  chil- 
dren, would  understand  how  to  direct  their  fancies  and  to 
regulate  their  discipline.  A  child  who  has  no  taste  for 
music  should  never  be  forced  to  sit  for  hours  practicing  on 
the  piano,  nor  should  she  be  punished  for  failing  to  do  so. 
It  is  always  best  to  ascertain  the  inclinations  of  the  child, 
and  then  direct  its  studies  accordingly,  for  in  this  way 
education  aids  natural  ability  and  insures  the  future  suc- 
cess of  the  man  or  woman. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  plan  what  calling  each  child 
is  to  have  before  it  is  old  enough  to  choose  for  itself.  Let 
the  education  be  a  liberal  one,  and  the  proper  thing  will 
present  itself  in  due  time. 

HYGIENE   OF    CHILDHOOD. 

The    hygienic    conditions    of    childhood    have    not 

received  that  attention   that  their    importance  demands, 

and  it  is  the  special   duty  of  the    mother  to   guard  these 

formative   years    of  her    offspring  so  that  their  physical 

organizations    may    be    perfectly    developed,    and    thus 

healthy  functions  insured.     To  this  end  plenty  of  exercise, 

fresh  air,  wholesome  food,  cleanliness,  rational  modes  of 

i  dress  and  proper  rest  must  be  insisted  on.     With  these 

i  and  the    moral  training  before  mentioned,  the  child  will 

J  certainly  have  a  good  foundation  laid,  that  will  prove  of 

great  value  in  after  life. 


MRS.  JAMES  BROWN    POTTER. 


HYGIENE    OF   CHILDHOOD.  319 

Exercise  and  Fresh  Air. —  Healthful  exercise  is 
best  secured  in  the  open  air,  and,  when  the  weather  is  fine, 
boys  and  girls  should  be  out  of  doors  as  much  as  possible. 
When  children  get  up  early,  a  walk  before  breakfast  is 
always  desirable,  even  in  cold  weather,  if  they  are  well 
wrapped  up.  Walking,  running  and  the  usual  out-door 
sports  of  children  constitute  the  best  kind  of  exercise,  and, 
when  bad  weather  prevents  their  going  out,  they  should 
be  allowed  to  romp  and  tumble  about  in  the  house. 
Girls  should  not  be  restrained  from  the  rougher  sports  of 
the  boys,  but  should  be  encouraged  to  take  part  in  them 
at  all  times. 

For  in-door  exercise  a  system  of  home  gymnastics 
should  be  devised,  and  should  be  used  by  children  of  both 
sexes.  The  "Goodyear  Pocket  Gymnasium"  is  one  of 
the  simplest  devices  for  home  exercise  that  can  be  pro- 
cured. It  consists  of  rubber  tubes  of  various  sizes, 
arranged  with  handles.  A  sheet  of  illustrations  shows 
the  various  movements,  which  are  many  and  graceful,  and 
which  provide  for  every  degree  of  muscular  development. 
A  cross-bar  fastened  in  the  doorway,  at  a  proper  height 
to  allow  the  child  to  reach  it  with  the  hands,  will  also  be 
found  advantageous  as  a  swinging  exercise. 

Until  the  body  has  attained  its  full  growth,  such  exer- 
cises should  be  imperative,  especially  for  girls,  so  as  to 
insure  perfect  motion  of  all  the  muscles  of  the  body.  The 
importance  of  such  motion  is  readily  explained.  Every 
muscular  contraction  increases  the  circulation  of  blood  in 
the  part,  so  that  a  fuller  supply  of  pure  blood  is  carried  to 
it,  and  the  impure  blood  is  rapidly  removed.  This 
increased  amount  of  blood  causes  the  muscles  to  grow, 
and  thus  adds  to  their  strength.     When  exercise  is  gen- 


320  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

eral,  and  not  too  violent,  the  same  result  follows  in  all  the 
muscles  and  organs.  Thus  general  growth  is  favored  by- 
proper  exercise,  and  hence  the  necessity  of  providing 
means  for  securing  it  for  growing  children.  Under  our 
present  system,  girls  are  denied  the  advantages  derived 
from  systematic  exercise,  and  thus  fail  to  secure  the  physi- 
cal development  essential  to  perfect  health.  This  is  all 
wrong,  and  the  only  way  to  remedy  it  is  to  give  them  the 
same  chances  for  physical  exercise  as  are   given  to  boys. 

FOOD.  —  The  child  is  an  omnivorous  animal,  and,  if 
left  to  itself,  will  eat  anything  it  can  get  its  hands  on. 
Care  must,  therefore,  be  taken  to  provide  such  foods  as  are 
the  most  wholesome  and  the  most  likely  to  favor  growth. 
After  the  second  year  more  starchy  foods  are  required, 
but  still  the  nitrogenous  foods  must  predominate. 

For  breakfast  oatmeal  porridge  and  milk,  or  bread 
and  milk,  is  the  best  food  that  can  be  used.  After  a  time 
soft-boiled  eggs,  and  possibly  a  small  piece  of  chop  or 
steak,  may  also  be  given,  but  this  is  not  necessary  till  the 
child  is  seven  or  eight  years  old. 

For  dinner,  nourishing  broths,  a  little  beef  or  mutton 
cut  up  very  fine,  roast,  boiled  or  stewed  chicken  and  bread 
and  butter  should  constitute  the  diet  till  the  seventh  or 
eighth  year.  After  that  fish,  raw  oysters,  well  cooked 
vegetables,  light  puddings,  cooked  and  raw  ripe  fruits  can 
be  added. 

The  supper  should  be  much  the  same  as  breakfast, 
and  should  be  eaten  at  least  an  hour  before  bed-time. 

The  principal  meal  should  be  in  the  middle  of  the  day, 
and  regularity  of  meal-times  must  be  enforced.  A  child 
should  never  be  allowed  to  eat  between  meals,  as  such 
a  habit  ruins  the  digestion  in  a  short  time. 


HYGIENE   OF   CHILDHOOD.  32 1 

The  excessive  use  of  potatoes,  so  commonly  fed  to 
children,  is  very  injurious,  especially  before  the  seventh 
year.  If  eaten  at  all,  it  should  be  seldom,  little  at  a  time, 
and  only  at  dinner.  They  are  not  easy  to  digest,  and,  being 
composed  almost  entirely  of  starch,  they  ferment,  thus 
causing  colic  and  flatulence.  Candies  are  injurious  for 
the  same  reason,  and  many  children  suffer  greatly  from 
indigestion  as  a  consequence  of  eating  confectioneries  and 
sugar.      It  is  clear,  then,  that  they  should  be  avoided. 

Tea,  coffee,  wine  and  beer  should  never  be  used  by 
children.  After  maturity  they  may  be  used  if  required. 
Water  or  milk  should  be  the  only  drink. 

Cleanliness  and  Bathing.  —  The  importance  of 
cleanliness  cannot  be  overestimated,  and  children  should 
be  early  taught  to  understand  the  observance  of  this  law 
of  health. 

The  excretions  from  the  skin,  if  not  removed  by  fre- 
quent bathings,  will  soon  become  uncomfortable  to  the 
child  and  offensive  to  those  around  it.  Till  the  child  is 
seven  or  eight  years  of  age,  it  should  be  put  in  the  bath- 
tub and  thoroughly  washed  every  morning.  After  that  the 
child  should  be  taught  to  bathe  itself,  and,  if  it  is  rugged 
and  healthy,  it  can  get  into  the  tub  as  before  every  morn- 
ing, and  the  water  should  only  have  the  chill  taken  off. 
The  skin  is  then  briskly  rubbed  with  a  coarse  towel  till 
thoroughly  dried. 

A  morning  sponge  bath  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
tub  bath,  in  which  case  one  part  of  the  body  can  be 
washed  with  a  soft  sponge  and  soap  —  the  chill  being  taken 
off  the  water  —  and  dried  before  any  other  part  is  wet. 
When  the  sponge  bath  is  used,  a  hot  water-bath  should  be 
used  about  once  a  week  immediately  before  bed-time. 


322  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

Sea  bathing  is  a  healthful  and  invigorating  luxury, 
which  can  be  enjoyed  during  the  season  by  boys  and  girls 
over  eight  years  without  anything  but  good  resulting. 

Care  of  the  Teeth. — The  teeth  and  gums  should  be 
washed  every  day  from  the  time  the  first  tooth  appears, 
and  the  child  should  be  early  taught  to  clean  them  with  a 
soft  brush  night  and  morning.  This  will  prevent  the  first 
or  temporary  teeth  from  decaying,  and  thus  a  good 
permanent  set  of  teeth  is  insured. 

The  permanent  teeth  come  in  gradually,  and  seldom 
occasion  much  disturbance.  If  the  primary  teeth  are 
decayed,  they  should  be  extracted,  and  thus  the  permanent 
ones  are  saved  from  the  same  condition.  If  a  permanent 
tooth  appears  before  the  first  tooth  becomes  loose,  the 
latter  should  be  extracted  at  once  so  as  to  make  room  for 
the  permanent  one.  After  the  permanent  teeth  come 
through,  they  must  also  be  cleaned  twice  a  day,  and  they 
should  be  frequently  examined  to  ascertain  if  any  of  them 
are  decaying,  and,  if  so,  the  tooth  should  saved  by  filling 
it  early. 

Clothing. —  Children  should  be  well  protected  by 
warm  and  comfortable  clothing,  but  care  should  be  taken 
not  to  dress  them  too  warm  during  the  summer  months. 
Fine  woolen  underclothing  should  be  worn  next  the  skin, 
and  nothing  should  be  worn  at  night  that  has  been  used 
during  the  day. 

At  the  present  time  boys  are  dressed  so  as  to  afford 
both  comfort  and  health,  while  all  the  errors  and  follies  of 
dress  have  found  a  place  in  the  dressing  of  girls  and 
women. 

The  proper  dress  for  girls  should  give  as  much  free- 
dom of  action  as  boys  enjoy,  and  therefore  nothing  should 


HYGIENE   OF    CHILDHOOD.  323 

be  worn  around  the  chest  or  waist  that  can  make  the 
slightest  pressure.  Corsets  should  never  be  used  under 
any  circumstances,  the  skirts  should  not  be  fastened  around 
the  waist,  and  the  legs  should  be  well  protected.  Instead 
of  the  corset,  girls  should  wear  a  snugly  fitting  waist,  with- 
out bones,  such  as  is  commonly  called  a  corset  cover. 
Buttons  should  be  sewed  on  this  waist  at  proper  distances, 
to  which  the  skirts  can  be  fastened,  and  thus  the  weight 
of  their  support  is  taken  from  the  waist  and  abdomen,  and 
distributed  evenly  over  the  shoulders. 

Thick-soled  boots  and  worsted  leggings,  extending 
from  the  top  of  the  boot  to  the  upper  part  of  the  thigh, 
should  be  worn  to  protect  the  lower  extremities  in  cold 
weather. 

This  mode  of  dress  protects  from  cold,  does  not  cause 
deformities  of  the  chest  and  displacement  of  the  impor- 
tant organs,  and  gives  perfect  freedom  of  motion,  while  it 
in  no  way  detracts  from  the  personal  appearance.  It 
allows  for  a  natural  development  of  the  heart,  lungs  and 
uterus,  and  prevents  displacements  of  the  stomach,  liver, 
intestines  and  ovaries,  which  always  result  from  constricted 
waists  and  chests. 

When  these  errors  of  dress  are  corrected,  and  our 
girls  have  the  same  chance  of  physical  development  as 
boys,  perfect  development  will  be  followed  by  perfect 
function,  and  woman  will  be  freed  from  many  of  the  bur- 
dens forced  upon  her  by  the  false  usages  of  society. 

SLEEP. —  Children  require  a  large  amount  of  sleep, 
and  under  fourteen  years  of  age  they  should  have  not  less 
than  ten  hours.  They  should  go  to  bed  early,  and  rise 
early. 

The    child's    bed  and  pillow  should  be  of  hair,  and 


324 


FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 


feathers  should  never  be  used.  It  should  sleep  in  a  crib 
by  itself,  and,  when  there  are  two  or  more  children,  each 
should  have  a  crib  of  its  own.  The  sleeping-room  should 
be  well  ventilated,  but  no  draft  should  be  allowed  to  blow 
on  the  child. 

Until  a  child  is  five  or  six  years  old  it  should  be 
encouraged  to  sleep  a  couple  of  hours  during  the  day. 
This  sleep  rests  an  active  child,  and  also  favors  its 
growth. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

DISEASES  OF  BABYHOOD  AND  CHILDHOOD. 

Disorders  of  Infancy — Congenital  Deformities  —  Diarrhoea — Cholera 
Infantum  —  Hydrocephalus  —  Convulsions  —  Croup  —  Diphtheria 
—  Eruptive  Fevers  —  St.  Vitus'  Dance — Sore  Eyes — Ear-ache 
and  Discharges  from  the  Ears  —  Infantile  Leucorrhcea — Phymo- 
sis  and  Paraphymosis — Scald  Head  —  Itch  —  Head  Lice  — 
Worms  —  Weak  Spines  and  Spinal  Deformities. 

Many  of  the  diseases  of  childhood  do  not  differ  from 
those  of  the  adult,  and  the  reader  is  referred  to  general 
works  on  "Family  Medicine"  for  descriptions  of  them. 
I  have  only  space  here  for  a  brief  mention  of  a  few  of  the 
most  common  disorders  of  early  life,  which  require  prompt 
treatment  and  careful  nursing. 

Those  who  undertake  the  care  of  children,  should 
understand  that  the  pulse  and  respiration  are  much  more 
rapid  in  childhood  than  in  adult  life.  At  birth  the  pulse 
beats  at  the  rate  of  120  to  150  pulsations  to  the  minute, 
and  the  respiration  varies  from  40  to  60;  from  the  first  to 
the  fifth  month,  the  pulse  is,  as  a  rule,  120,  and  the  respira- 
tions 40  per  minute;  during  the  first  year,  the  pulse 
varies  from  105  to  120,  and  the  respirations  from  30  to  40, 
and  for  several  years  they  range  a  little  below  these  figures. 
Even  at  puberty,  the  pulse  is  above  75,  and  the  respira- 
tions above  20;  while  after  maturity,  the  normal  pulse 
may  average  from  70  to  75,  while  the  respirations  range 
between  16  and  18  per  minute.  It  sometimes  happens, 
however,  that  the  pulse  may  be  unusually  slow,  in  which 

325 


326  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

case  the  general  condition   of  the   patient   must  be   con- 
sidered. 

DISORDERS    OF    INFANCY. 

Of  the  simple  disorders  of  infancy  which  demand  the 
attention  of  the  mother  the  most  common  are  flatulence, 
colic,  hiccough,  thrush,  sprue  and  constipation. 

Flatulence. — Flatulence  is  sirnply  an  accumulation 
of  wind  in  the  stomach  and  bowels,  and  is  not  a  disease  of 
itself,  but  only  a  sympton  of  indigestion.  When  present, 
the  child  is  restless  and  uneasy,  the  stomach  and  abdomen 
seem  distended,  and  the  wind  is  belched  from  the  stomach 
or  passed  by  the  anus. 

Treatment. —  To  correct  the  difficulty,  proper  atten- 
tion should  be  paid  to  feeding  the  child.  It  should  not  be 
allowed  to  distend  the  stomach  by  overfeeding,  the  diet 
of  the  mother  should  be  regulated  if  the  child  is  nursing 
and  the  mother's  milk  continues  to  distress  the  child, 
Camrick's  soluble  food  should  be  substituted  for  the 
mother's  milk.  To  correct  the  fermentation  that  produces 
the  gas  or  wind,  three  or  four  grains  of  bicarbonate  of 
potash  dissolved  in  water  should  be  given  three  or  four 
times  a  day.  To  give  tone  to  the  stomach  use  the  fol- 
lowing :  Tincture  of  nux  vomica,  10  drops;  water,  4 
ounces.  Mix,  and  give  one  teaspoonful  every  three  hours. 
If  the  tongue  is  coated  or  the  bowels  constipated,  the 
following  will  be  found  serviceable :  Podophyllin,  1 
grain  ;  sugar  of  milk,  10  grains.  Mix,  and  divide  into 
twenty  powders,  of  which  one  should  be  given  about  four 
times  a  day. 

Colic. — Colic  is  properly  a  neuralgia  of  the  intes- 
tines, though  the  term  is  applied  to  all  spasmodic  pains 
of  the  stomach  and  bowels  in  infants.      It  is  divided  into 


DISORDERS   OF   INFANCY.  327 

wind  colic  and  bilious  colic;  the  first  mentioned  being  the 
form  from  which  infants  suffer  so  much  during  the  first 
three  or  four  months  of  life. 

Wind  colic  is  only  a  symptom  of  indigestion,  and  the 
pain  is  caused  by  the  pressure  upon  the  nerves  of  the 
intestines  by  the  distention  of  the  bowels  with  wind. 

A  child  suffering  from  colic  draws  up  its  legs  and 
screams  violently,  the  abdomen  is  distended  and  hard, 
the  bowels  are  usually  constipated,  and,  as  a  rule,  pressure 
on  the  abdomen  relieves  the  pain.  In  cases  where  pres- 
sure increases  the  pain,  the  tongue  will  be  coated,  the 
child  is  continually  cross,  the  extremities  are  cold,  and 
nausea  and  vomiting  frequently  occur.  The  matter  vom- 
ited consists  of  the  undigested  contents  of  the  stomach 
mixed  with  bile,  and  for  this  reason  the  condition  is  called 
bilious  colic. 

Treatment.  —  For  temporary  relief,  five  or  ten 
drops  of  essence  of  aniseed  may  be  given  in  about  one 
ounce  of  sweetened  catnip  tea.  To  overcome  the  trouble, 
there  is  nothing  better  than  a  teaspoonful  of  castor  oil. 
As  soon  as  the  oil  moves  the  bowels,  the  treatment  rec- 
ommended above  for  flatulence  will  be  certain  to  overcome 
the  conditions  that  produce  the  colic.  Opiates  and  sooth- 
ing sirups  should  never  be  given,  as  they  will  only  injure 
the  system  without  curing  the  trouble. 

HICCOUGH. —  Hiccough  is  too  well  known  to  require 
description.  The  peculiar  noise  is  produced  by  inter- 
mittent contractions  of  the  diaphragm  and  the  larynx.  It 
frequently  attends  diseases  of  the  liver  and  other  organs, 
but  in  young  children  is  most  generally  a  symptom  of  in- 
digestion. As  a  rule,  it  is  of  short  duration,  and  passes  off 
without  any  attempt   at  treatment.      At  times,  however, 


328  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

it  is  quite  persistent  and  becomes  a  source  of  annoy- 
ance. 

Treatment. —  A  dash  of  cold  water  in  the  face  will 
frequently  stop  a  paroxysm  of  hiccough  for  the  time  being. 
A  teaspoonful  of  cold  water  to  drink  will  also  do  the  same. 
A  change  of  position  of  the  child  is  also  desirable,  and 
often  the  hiccough  will  cease  as  soon  as  the  child  is  laid 
on  its  abdomen  across  the  knees  of  the  nurse.  The  treat- 
ment recommended  for  flatulence  must  be  followed  to  cor- 
rect the  indigestion  if  this  symptom  recurs  frequently. 

Constipation.  —  Constipation  is  one  of  the  most 
annoying  conditions  of  infancy,  as  no  child  can  be  com- 
fortable without  having  regular  motions  of  its  bowels. 

Treatment.  —  When  symptoms  of  indigestion  are 
present,  that  condition  must  be  corrected.  If  the  child 
nurses,  the  mother  must  regulate  her  diet,  and  take  such 
mild  medicines  as  will  keep  her  bowels  regular.  If  a 
child  under  six  months  old  does  not  have  the  bowels 
moved  twice  a  day,  something  must  be  done  to  aid  it. 
Rubbing  the  abdomen  with  gentle  pressure  is  always  ben- 
eficial; and  if  the  constipation  is  not  habitual,  an  injection 
of  about  two  ounces  of  tepid  water  into  the  rectum  with 
a  very  small-pointed  syringe,  will  secure  a  good  motion. 
The  compound  sirup  of  rhubarb  and  potash  in  teaspoon- 
ful doses  every  half-hour  till  the  bowels  move,  not  only 
overcomes  the  constipation,  but  corrects  any  acid  condi- 
tion of  the  stomach.  If  the  tongue  is  coated,  and  the 
skin  and  eyes  sallow,  podophyllin  is  the  best  remedy. 
It  is  best  given  in  the  following  combination:  Podo- 
phyllin, I  grain;  powdered  nux  vomica,  I  grain;  sugar 
of  milk.  10  grains.  Mix,  divide  into  twelve  pow- 
ders, and    give  one  powder  three    or   four  times    a    day 


DISORDERS    OF   INFANCY.  329 

till  the  desired  effect  is  produced.  To  give  tone  to 
the  stomach  and  bowels,  add  ten  drops  of  tincture 
of  nux  vomica  to  one-half  a  goblet  of  water,  and  of  this, 
give  a  teaspoonful  every  one  or  two  hours.  An  occa- 
sional dose  of  castor  oil  may  sometimes  do  good,  but,  if 
given  often,  it  tends  to  make  the  constipation  worse  after 
its  action  has  once  been  produced. 

Thrush  and  Sprue. — Thrush  is  a  term  applied  to 
an  inflammation  of  the  mucous  membrane  of  the  mouth 
in  infants.  It  is  characterized  by  the  appearance  of  small 
round  or  oval  patches,  of  a  grayish  or  yellowish  white 
color,  on  the  inside  of  the  cheeks  and  lips,  and  on  the 
roof  of  the  mouth  and  palate.  After  two  or  three  days 
the  grayish  mass  is  thrown  off,  leaving  a  raw  or  ulcerated 
surface  underneath,  which  takes  several  days  to  heal. 
The  pain  is  often  severe,  there  is  marked  fever  present, 
and  digestion  is  impaired.  In  fact,  the  condition  is  only 
present  when  the  stomach  and  bowels  are  disordered  and 
in  feeble  and  delicate  children. 

In  some  cases  air  germs,  or  parasites,  are  deposited  on 
the  inflamed  surfaces,  and  form  whitish,  curd-like  masses 
on  the  tongue,  cheeks,  lips  and  palate.  When  these 
masses  are  detached  they  are  usually  swallowed,  and  thus 
the  disease  extends  along  the  entire  alimentary  canal. 
Now  diarrhoea  sets  in,  and  the  curd-like  masses  are  seen 
in  the  passages,  and  the  verge  of  the  anus  presents  the 
same  condition  as  the  mouth.  No  doubt  the  entire  canal 
is  affected  the  same  way.  This  form  of  the  disease  is 
commonly  called  sprue. 

Treatme?it.  —  When  care  is  taken  to  clean  the  child's 
mouth  every  day,  there  is  little  danger  of  inflammation 
developing.     When   it  does,  the   mouth  should  be  thor- 


330  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

oughly  cleansed  at  least  twice  a  day  with  a  carbolic  acid 
wash,  made  by  adding  twenty  drops  of  carbolic  acid  to  a 
gobletful  of  water.  Then  the  sore  parts  can  be  gently 
bathed  with  a  mixture  of  borax  and  honey,  made  by  mix- 
ing a  dram  of  powdered  borax  with  a  teacupful  of  strained 
honey.  If  the  stomach  is  out  of  order,  that  must  be  cor- 
rected as  heretofore  directed.  This  is  all  the  treatment 
required  for  a  simple  case  of  thrush. 

If  the  sprue  has  developed,  the  alimentary  canal  should 
first  be  cleansed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  castor  oil.  If  this 
does  not  move  the  bowels  in  two  hours  the  dose  should  be 
repeated.  Then  one  drop  of  carbolic  acid  in  a  little  gly- 
cerine and  water  should  be  given  internally,  and  repeated 
three  or  four  times  a  day.  All  food  should  be  withheld  for 
at  least  twenty-four  hours,  and  instead  the  child  should 
drink  freely  of  hot  catnip  tea,  to  each  ounce  of  which 
should  be  added  about  five  grains  of  chlorate  of  potash  and 
five  drops  of  fluid  hydrastis.  The  anus  should  be  washed 
with  the  carbolic  wash  above  mentioned.  Should  the 
child  be  feeble  and  sickly,  and  this  treatment  fail  to  give 
relief,  a  physician  should  be  consulted. 

CONGENITAL   DEFORMITIES. 

Children  are  frequently  born  with  some  kind  of 
deformity,  such  as  hare-lip,  cleft  palate,  redundant  fingers 
or  toes,  club-feet,  adhesion  of  the  eyelids,  and  red  marks 
on  the  face,  and  parents,  sometimes  through  ignorance 
and  sometimes  through  the  advice  of  physicians  who  have 
had  no  experience  with  such  cases,  often  allow  them  to 
remain  for  years  before  any  attempt  is  made  to  correct 
them. 


DIARRHCEA.  331 

Whenever  any  of  these  deformities  are  recognized  at 
birth,  an  experienced  surgeon  should  be  consulted  with- 
out delay,  and  his  advice  followed. 

As  a  rule,  cleft  palate  and  hare-lip  can  be  most  suc- 
cessfully operated  on  at  the  age  of  four  or  five  years  ; 
redundant  fingers  and  toes  should  be  removed  after  a  few 
months  ;  all  deformities  of  the  feet  should  be  corrected 
before  the  child  begins  to  walk  ;  adhesions  of  the  eyelids 
should  be  corrected  immediately  after  birth,  and  moles  and 
discolorations  of  the  skin  should  be  removed,  if  possible, 
before  the  blood-vessels  become  enlarged. 

All  of  these  deformities  can  be  overcome  by  proper 
treatment,  but  parents  should  be  careful  not  to  trust  such 
cases  with  inexperienced  physicians.  They  belong  to  the 
domain  of  surgery,  and  no  absurd  prejudice  against  the 
use  of  the  knife  should  deter  them  from  making  the  attempt 
to  have  such  deformities  corrected  in  their  children. 

DIARRHOEA. 

Diarrhoea  is  of  frequent  occurrence  with  children  of 
all  ages.  It  may  be  so  slight  as  to  constitute  a  simple 
looseness  of  the  bowels  for  a  day,  or  so  severe  as  to  seri- 
ously prostrate  the  child  in  a  few  hours.  It  often  results 
from  cold,  but  derangement  of  digestion  is  by  far  the  most 
common  cause.  The  ordinary  diarrhoea  of  childhood  is 
almost  invariably  due  to  some  error  of  diet,  in  which  a 
mechanical  irritation  is  produced  by  some  undigested  food. 
During  the  first  two  years  of  life  a  simple  diarrhoea  often 
runs  into  a  pronounced  cholera  infantum  or  summer  com- 
plaint. 

If  an  infant  has  more  than  three  passages  a  day,  or  a 
child  over  three  years  has  more  than  two  passages,  some 
attention  should  be  given  to  the  fact. 


332  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Treatment. —  If  we  have  any  reason  to  believe  that 
the  child  has  eaten  something  that  has  not  digested,  a  dose 
of  castor  oil  is  about  the  best  thing  that  can  be  given.  It 
removes  the  irritating  mass,  and  allays  the  irritation  already 
begun,  and  thus,  as  a  rule,  the  trouble  is  at  once  over- 
come. 

If  the  diarrhoea  continues,  and  the  passages  are  green 
and  curdled,  the  compound  sirup  of  rhubarb  and  potash 
should  be  given  in  half-teaspoonful  doses  three  times  a 
day  to  children  under  two  years  old,  and  to  those  over 
that  age  a  teaspoonful  can  be  given,  and  this  should  be 
continued  till  the  character  of  the  passages  is  changed. 
If  the  tongue  is  coated  with  a  whitish  fur,  five  grains  of 
bicarbonate  of  soda  should  be  given  in  a  little  water,  and 
repeated  every  few  hours  till  the  apparance  of  the  tongue 
changes,  and,  if  the  tongue  is  red,  a  drop  of  dilute  muriatic 
acid,  largely  diluted  in  water,  should  be  given  every  two 
hours. 

If  the  child  is  weak,  put  ten  drops  of  tincture  of  nux 
vomica  into  half  a  goblet  of  water,  and  give  one  teaspoon- 
ful from  the  goblet  every  hour. 

If  considerable  pain  and  tenesmus  are  present,  from 
five  to  fifteen  drops  of  paregoric  may  be  given,  but  it 
should  not  be  repeated  more  than  once  or  twice  without 
the  advice  of  a  physician. 

CHOLERA   INFANTUM. 

Cholera  infantum,  or  summer  complaint,  is  an  acute 
inflammation  of  the  stomach  and  intestines  occurring  in 
infancy.  It  usually  begins  with  a  loosening  of  the  bowels,, 
which,  after  several  days,  may  be  followed  by  vomiting, 
with  more  or  less  febrile  excitement.     In  some  cases  the 


CHOLERA   INFANTUM.  333 

infant  is  irritable,  restless  and  feverish  for  several  days 
before  the  diarrhoea  sets  in  ;  while  at  other  times  vomiting 
and  purging  come  on  suddenly,  without  any  premonitory 
symptoms.  The  stools  soon  become  watery,  though 
they  often  contain  curds  or  particles  of  undigested  food, 
and  they  present  a  greenish  or  greenish  yellow  color. 
Pain  accompanies  each  action,  and  there  is  tenderness  on 
pressure  of  the  abdomen.  Vomiting  occurs  with  every 
attempt  to  take  food  ;  and,  in  a  few  hours,  the  eyes  become 
sunken  and  partially  closed,  the  face  pallid,  the  skin  hot 
and  dry,  the  pulse  rapid,  the  mind  torpid,  the  body  much 
wasted,  and  the  child  lies  in  a  stupor. 

This  disease  usually  occurs  about  the  time  when 
people  begin  to  feed  infants  with  pther  than  mother's 
milk,  and  may  properly  be  considered  as  resulting  from 
errors  in  infant  feeding.  The  common  practice  of  feeding 
infants  potatoes,  bread,  rice  and  other  starchy  food,  before 
the  child's  stomach  and  intestines  are  capable  of  digest- 
ing them,  are  among  the  most  common  causes  of  the 
disease;  while  bad  ventilation,  imperfect  drainage,  and 
the  intense  heat  of  crowded  cities  are  prominent  factors 
in  its  development.  These  conditions  are  often  present 
during  the  teething  period,  and  consequently  many  have 
come  to  look  upon  the  disease  as  a  necessary  sequence  of 
cutting  teeth.  This  is  a  mistake,  however,  as  the  teething 
and  cholera  infantum  are  both  incidental  to  the  same 
period  of  life,  and  in  fact  have  no  other  connection. 

Treatment. —  Attention  to  the  diet  and  the  hygienic 
conditions  of  the  child  are  the  first  things  to  be  looked  to 
in  the  treatment  of  this  disease.  If  the  child  is  nursing,  all 
other  food  should  be  withheld.  If  not,  Carnrick's  Soluble 
Food,  and  nothing  else,  should  be  used,  especially  during 


334  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

the  heated  summer  term.     With  this  food,  it  is  a  rare  thing 
to  meet  a  case  of  cholera  infantum. 

The  thirst  may  be  allayed  by  putting  small  pieces  of 
ice  in  the  child's  mouth  from  time  to  time;  and  bathing 
the  surface  of  the  body  with  a  cold  sponge-bath  two  or 
three  times  a  day  will  diminish  the  fever,  and  prove 
extremely  grateful  to  the  child.  Pure  air  is  very  essential, 
and  must  be  secured  by  thorough  ventilation.  City  chil- 
dren should,  if  possible,  be  removed  to  the  country  as 
soon  as  any  symptoms  of  the  disease  show  themselves, 
and  this  change  often  arrests  the  disease  in  its  first  stages. 

In  giving  medicines  the  old  chaik-mixtures  and  prep- 
arations of  opium  must  be  discarded.  Instead,  aconite 
and  ipecac,  given  in  small  alternated  doses,  will  prove  of 
great  benefit.  For  convenience,  take  two  goblets,  each 
containing  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  In  one  of  these 
put  six  drops  tincture  of  aconite  root,  and,  in  the  other,  ten 
drops  of  tincture  of  ipecac.  Give  a  teaspoonful  from  one 
glass  on  the  even  hour,  and  fifteen  minutes  afterward  a 
teaspoonful  from  the  other,  and  continue  giving  them 
alternately  with  the  fifteen-minutes  intervals  till  the 
fever  subsides  and  the  nausea  diminishes.  Then  extend  the 
interval  to  half  an  hour.  If  the  face  is  pale  and  the  child 
generally  prostrated,  five  drops  of  tincture  nux  vomica 
should  be  added  to  the  ipecac.  If  there  is  marked  irrita- 
tion of  the  brain,  with  great  heat  in  the  back  of  the  head, 
and  a  constant  rolling  of  the  head  from  side  to  side,  ten 
drops  oi tincture  gelsemium  should  be  put  into  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  and,  of  this,  a  teaspoonful  should  be 
given  every  half-hour  till  these  symptoms  are  relieved. 

Compound  sirup  of  rhubarb  and  potash,  given  in  tea- 
spoonful doses  every  hour  or  two,  in  the  early  stage,  will 


ADA   REHAN. 


convulsions.  335 

change  the    character  of  the  passages,  and  cut  short  the 
disease. 

If  this  treatment  does  not  control  the  disorder,  a  phy- 
sician should  be  called,  but  in  none  but  the  most  extreme 
cases  should  opiates  in  any  form  be  administered,  and 
the  physician  who  adheres   to  such  practice  is  not  to  be 

trusted. 

HYDROCEPHALUS. 

Hydrocephalus,  commonly  called  water  on  the  brain, 
isaname  applied  to  inflammation  of  the  membranes  of  the 
brain  in  infancy  and  early  childhood,  which  is  character- 
ized by  a  watery  effusion  which  separates  the  bones  of  the 
skull  and  gives  the  head  an  abnormal  and  enlarged  ap- 
pearance. It  is  sometimes  developed  as  a  sequence  of 
cholera  infantum,  but  often  shows  itself  as  an  independent 
disorder.  When  a  child  lives  through  the  disease,  the 
head  remains  unusually  large  and  deformed. 

When  such  a  condition  shows  itself  a  physician  should 
always  be  sent  for  at  once. 

CONVULSIONS. 

Convulsions  are  frequently  met  with  during  all  periods 
of  infancy  and  childhood,  and  some  forms  occur  in  all 
periods  of  life.  They  are  due  to  structural  lesions  of  the 
brain  and  spinal  cord,  or  to  the  irritation  of  some  organ 
or  part  of  the  body,  which  is  carried  to  the  spinal  cord  by 
connecting  spinal  nerves.  Irritation  of  the  stomach  and 
bowels  from  any  cause,  inflammation  of  internal  organs, 
and  diseases  and  injuries  of  the  surfaces  of  the  body,  may 
give  rise  to  convulsions. 

Treatment. —  In  most  cases  of  convulsions  a  hot  foot- 
bath, and  clothes  wrung  out  of  hot  mustard-water,  should 


336  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

be  used,  and  a  physician  sent  for  at  once.  If  the  child 
has  teeth,  something  soft  should  be  placed  between  them, 
to  prevent  biting  the  tongue  and  cheeks.  The  physician 
should  be  given  a  full  account  of  the  actions  and  diet  of 
the  child,  so  as  to  be  able  to  determine  the  cause  of  the 
convulsions.  This  is  necessary  to  enable  him  to  decide 
on  the  proper  treatment  to  adopt. 

CROUP. 

Croup  is  so  well  known  to  mothers  as  to  require  no 
special  description.  It  is  an  inflammation  of  the  mucous 
membrane  of  the  larynx,  which  is  accompanied  by  a 
peculiar  hoarse,  spasmodic  cough,  which  can  never  be 
mistaken  after  it  is  once  heard. 

There  are  three  forms  of  the  disease,  called,  respect- 
ively, mucous,  membranous  and  spasmodic  croup. 

Mucous  croup  is  the  common  form  of  the  disease 
which  comes  on  suddenly  during  the  night,  and  which 
recurs  frequently  in  croupy  children.  It  sometimes 
assumes  a  spasmodic  form,  in  which  a  paroxysm  comes  on 
suddenly,  lasts  for  a  few  minutes,  and  then  stops  for  a 
time,  but,  after  an  intermission  of  variable  duration,  again 
recurs.  These  paroxysms  may  continue  to  recur  for 
several  hours,  and  then  disappear.  Membranous  crop  is 
happily  rare,  for  it  is  a  very  serious  disease.  A  dense 
membrane  forms  in  the  larynx,  which  soon  completely 
stops  the  passage  of  air  into  the  lungs,  and  death  must 
result. 

Treatment. — The  first  attack  of  croup  should  never 
be  neglected.  No  one  can  tell  how  serious  it  may  prove, 
and  for  that  reason  a  physician  should  be  sent  for  as  soon 
as   the   peculiar   cough    and  breathing    are    recognized. 


DIPHTHERIA.  337 

Children  who  are  subject  to  croup  can  always  be  greatly 
relieved  by  the  following,  which  should  be  kept  in  the 
house  for  use  as  soon  as  the  first  symptom  shows  itself: 
Tincture  aconite  root,  5  drops;  sirup  lobelia  and  simple 
sirup,  of  each,  2  ounces;  mix,  and  give  from  one-half  to 
one  teaspoonful  every  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  till  nausea 
or  even  vomiting  is  produced.  A  child  between  two  and 
three  years  of  age  should  take  half  a  teaspoonful,  while 
a  teaspoonful  should  be  given  to  one  over  three.  Inhala- 
tion of  the  steam  of  hot  vinegar  will  also  give  relief  in  a 
few  minutes  in  many  cases.  Great  benefit  is  also  derived 
from  rubbing  the  throat  well,  three  or  four  times  a  day, 
with  the  following  liniment:  oil  of  stillingia  J^  ounce;  oil 
of  cajeput,  2  drams;  oil  of  lobelia,  2  drams;  alcohol,  3 
ounces.  This  should  be  kept  in  the  house  for  use  as  soon 
as  the  first  croupy  symptoms  show  themselves. 

In  cases  of  membranous  croup,  the  physician  often 
deems  it  advisable  to  perform  the  operation  of  tracheot- 
omy, and,  as  this  is  often  the  only  hope  to  save  the  life 
of  the  child,  the  parents  should  give  their  consent  at  once, 
as  no  time  is  to  be  lost  in  performing  the  operation. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

Diphtheria  is  a  specific  blood  disease,  which  owes  its 
origin  to  microbes,  or  disease  germs.  It  is  contagious, 
and  often  prevails  as  an  extensive  epidemic,  though  it  is 
most  frequently  endemic  in  character,  arising  from  imper- 
fect sewerage  and  drainage. 

For  three  or  four  days  the  patient  is  dull,  languid  and 
fretful;  the  appetite  is  impaired,  and  there  is  a  great  desire 
for  drink.  Then  a  feeling  of  chilliness,  or  a  decided  chill 
is  felt,  followed  by  headache,  backache,  and   severe  pain 


33^  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

in  the  muscles.  These  symptoms  are  followed  by  fever, 
which  is  well  developed  before  any  soreness  of  the  throat 
is  felt,  which  even  then  is  not  severe.  An  examination 
of  the  throat  now  shows  inflamed  patches,  or  it  may  even 
be  covered  with  an  ashen-gray  exudation.  This  condition 
of  the  throat  spreads  rapidly,  and  sometimes  fills  up  the 
air  passages,  like  membranous  croup,  and  causes  death  by 
strangulation.  In  other  cases  death  results  from  exhaus- 
tion. 

When  severe  pain  is  felt  in  the  throat  as  the  first 
symptom,  the  disease  is  some  other  form  of  ulceration, 
and  not  diphtheria,  for  in  true  diphtheria  the  exudation  is 
present  before  any  severe  pain  is  developed. 

Treatment. — As  soon  as  the  exudation  is  recognized, 
the  throat  should  be  thoroughly  swabbed  out  with  car- 
bolic acid  and  glycerine,  10  drops  of  the  former  to  an 
ounce  of  the  latter.  Then  the  raw  surfaces  should  be 
touched  with  the  end  of  a  pine  stick  saturated  in  pure 
carbolic  acid.  This  burns  the  surface  of  the  ulcers,  and 
destroys  the  microbes,  and  thus  prevents  the  further 
spread  of  the  disease.  This  application  must  be  carefully 
made  so  as  not  to  touch  healthy  parts  with  the  acid. 

To  control  the  fever  and  help  the  elimination  of  the 
poison,  the  following  should  be  given:  Tincture  veratrum 
Viride  {Norwood's),  15  drops;  water,  4  ounces.  Mix,  and 
give  3^  teaspoonful  every  half-hour  to  children  under 
three  years  of  age,  and  a  teaspoonful  every  half-hour  to 
those  over  three.  This  should  be  continued  until  the 
skin  becomes  moist,  or  slight  nausea  is  produced.  The 
throat  must  be  swabbed  out  at  least  twice  a  day  with  the 
carbolic  acid  and  glycerine  until  it  looks  clean.  This 
treatment  will  relieve  the  wrorst  symptoms  in  a  few  days. 


ERUPTIVE   FEVERS.  339 

After  the  fever  has  subsided  one  drop    of  tincture  of  nux 

vomica   may  be  given  to  a  child  under  five  years  of  age, 

every  three  hours,  and  from  two  to  three  drops  to  a  child 

over  five  years.     This  gives   tone   to   the  nervous  system 

after  the  prostration  of  the  disease. 

A  physician  should    always  direct  the   treatment   of 

diphtheria,  so  as  to  be  able  to  meet  any  complications  that 

may  arise. 

ERUPTIVE    FEVERS. 

Eruptive  fevers  constitute  a  class  of  fevers  caused  by 
certain  specific  contagion,  and  attended  with  cutaneous 
eruptions.  They  are  all  contagious,  and  occur  either  as 
widespread  epidemics  or  as  endemics.  It  is  claimed  that 
one  attack  of  these  fevers  gives  immunity  against  a  second. 
That  this  seems  to  be  the  rule  we  cannot  but  acknowledge, 
yet  there  are  many  exceptions  to  it,  as  people  frequently 
have  these  diseases  more  than  once.  Of  these  fevers 
measles  and  scarlet  fever  are  particularly  diseases  of 
childhood,  while  vaccination  causes  a  fever  which  requires 
a  passing  notice. 

Measles. — Measles  is  the  most  common  of  the 
eruptive  fevers  of  childhood.  It  is  contagious,  and  runs 
its  course  in  about  two  weeks.  It  comes  on  a  week  or  ten 
days  after  exposure,  and  a  feeling  of  languor  and  depres- 
sion is  first  felt  for  three  or  four  days.  This  is  followed 
by  a  chill  and  fever,  with  intense  pain  in  the  back  and  head. 
Redness  and  watering  of  the  eyes  and  obstruction  of  the 
nose,  or  increased  secretion  of  the  nose  with  sneezing,  are 
also  common  symptoms  of  the  disease. 

The  eruption  shows  itself  about  the  second  or  third 
day  after  the  fever  sets  in,  and  first  appears  on  the  face, 
neck  and  breast,  and  finally  on  the  trunk  and  extremities. 


340  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

From  one  to  three  days  are  necessary  for  the  eruption  to 
fully  appear,  when  it  remains  red  for  a  couple  of  days,  and 
then  gradually  disappears,  and  is  entirely  gone  by  the  ninth 
day.  The  eruption  is  irregularly  oval  in  shape,  of  red 
color,  raised  above  the  surrounding  skin,  and  is  rough  to 
the  feel.     The  fever  subsides  after  the  eruption  is  well  out. 

Treatment. —  Little  treatment  is  required  in  measles, 
as  a  rule.  It  is  necessary  to  prevent  the  patients  from 
taking  cold,  by  keeping  them  in  bed,  and  well  covered. 
Hot  drinks  should  be  freely  given  to  promote  the  coming 
out  of  the  eruption,  and  a  tepid  sponge-bath  should  be 
given  twice  a  day,  and  a  foot-bath  in  the  evening.  If 
the  fever  is  severe,  the  following  should  be  given:  Tincture 
veratrum  viride,  10  drops  ;  water,  4  ounces.  Mix, 
and  give  a  teaspoonful  every  hour  till  the  skin  becomes 
moist,  or  nausea  is  produced. 

In  severe  forms  of  the  disease,  a  physician  must  be 
called. 

SCARLET  FEVER. — Scarlet  fever  is  an  acute,  infectious 
disease,  which  shows  itself  by  a  chill  six  or  eight  days 
after  exposure.  After  the  chill  the  skin  is  hot  and  dry, 
and  the  throat  feels  dry  and  burning.  The  eruption  shows 
itself  in  from  twelve  to  thirty-six  hours  after  the  fever 
begins,  and  first  makes  it  appearance  on  the  neck  and 
upper  part  of  the  chest,  and  within  a  few  hours  it  spreads 
over  the  entire  body.  The  whole  surface  becomes  of  an 
intense  scarlet  color.  The  throat  is  generally  inflamed 
and  sore,  and,  in  severe  cases,  the  throat  symptoms 
assume  serious  proportions. 

Treatment. — The  same  general  management  as 
recommended  for  measles  should  be  followed,  but  a 
physician  should  always  be  called  to  treat  the  case. 


CHOREA,    OR   ST.    VITUS'  DANCE.  341 

VACCINATION.  —  I  only  speak  of  vaccination  here  to 
condemn  it.  Though  so  universallypracticed,  the  leading 
men  of  Europe  and  America  are  beginning  to  acknowledge 
that  it  never  protected  against  small-pox,  while  it  has 
brought  death  and  suffering  to  thousands  of  innocent  and 
helpless  children.  Parents  should  study  this  subject 
before  subjecting  their  children  to  the  old  fetich  of 
vaccination.* 

Small-Pox. —  Small-pox  rarely  occurs  except  as  an 

epidemic,  and  then  children  usually  suffer  terribly  from  its 

ravages.      Strict  isolation  and  proper  hygienic  conditions 

are   the   only  scientific    means    of   prevention,    and    the 

treatment  must  be   intrusted    to    physicians   and    skilled 

nurses. 

CHOREA,  OR  ST.  VITUS'  DANCE. 

Chorea,  or  St.  Vitus'  dance,  is  essentially  a  disease  of 
childhood,  just  prior  to  the  age  of  puberty,  which  is  marked 
by  the  loss  of  control  over  the  voluntary  muscles,  and  by 
irregular  spasmodic  muscular  action.  Disorders  of  diges- 
tion, diseases  of  the  heart,  intestinal  worms,  homesickness, 
and  general  debility  from  previous  disease  may  give  rise 
to  it. 

The  most  pronounced  symptoms  are  continual  and 
unconscious  movement  of  the  hands  and  feet,  sudden  jerk- 
ing of  the  arms  and  legs,  difficult  and  jerky  breathing, 
swollen  face,  tenderness  over  the  spine  and  irregular  heart 
action  ;  while  in  protracted  cases  irritability,  loss  of  mem- 
ory and  mental  dullness  come  on. 

Treatment. —  Entire  freedom  from  excitement  is  the 

*  For  information  the  reader  is  referred  to  "  Vaccination —  Its  Fallacies  and 
Evils,"  by  Robert  A.  Gunn,  M.  D.,  New  York;  and  Encyclopedia  Britannica, 
ninth  edition  ;  article,  "Vaccination." 


342  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

first  consideration  in  the  treatment  of  this  disorder. 
Absolute  rest  in  bed  in  a  darkened  room  should  be  insisted 
on  for  a  time.  Milk,  beef  tea,  soft  boiled  eggs,  clam 
broth  and  raw  oysters  should  constitute  the  diet,  and  good 
ventilation  should  be  secured.  The  bowels  should  be 
kept  regular,  as  advised  in  the  treatment  of  constipation, 
and,  when  the  patient  is  pale  and  weak,  the  elixir  calisaya, 
iron  and  strychnine  should  be  given  in  teaspoonful  doses 
after  each  meal. 

To  control  the  spasm,  the  following  should  be  given: 
Tincture  gelsemium,  2  drams;  tincture  of  black  cohosh,  4 
drams;  Fowler's  solution  of  arsenic,  30  drops;  water,  enough 
to  make  4  ounces.  Mix,  and  give  a  teaspoonful  every 
three  or  four  hours.  The  gelsemium  must  be  left  out  of 
this  mixture  as  soon  as  the  twitchings  subside,  and  the 
other  ingredients  should  be  taken  as  before. 

In  some  cases,  of  both  boys  and  girls,  an  irritation  of 
the  genital  organs  gives  rise  to  the  disorder,  and  this  should 
never  be  lost  sight  of  in  examining  a  case,  as  an  operation 
may  be  required  to  cure  such  cases. 

SORE   EYES. 

Sore  eyes  may  come  on  a  few  days  after  birth,  either 
from  carelessness  in  not  cleansing  them,  or  from  poisonous 
inoculation  from  the  mother  at  birth.  They  may  also 
develop  at  any  time  during  infancy  from  catching  cold  or 
improper  bathing.  Scarlet  fever,  measles,  and  small-pox 
often  leave  children  with  sore  eyes,  and  they  are  liable  at 
any  time  to  accidents  that  seriously  injure  the  eyes. 

No  matter  how  slight  an  inflammation  or  trouble  of 
the  eyes  in  a  child,  it  should  never  be  neglected,  as  such 
troubles  too  often  destroy  the  sight;  nor  should  severe  cases 


EAR-ACHE.  343 

be  intrusted  to  the  general  practitioner.  An  oculist  or  some 
good  surgeon  should  be  consulted  at  the  earliest  possible 
moment,  and  the  treatment  should  be  regularly  continued 
till  the  eyes  are  restored  to  their  normal  condition. 

EAR-ACHE   AXD    DISCHARGES    FROM    THE   EARS. 

Ear-ache  frequently  occurs  among  children  of  all 
ages,  and  it  may  be  produced  by  a  variety  of  causes. 
Cold,  the  irritation  of  teething,  foreign  substances  in  the 
ears,  and  the  inflammation  incident  to  measles  and  scarlet 
fever  are  among  the  most  common  causes.  Even  in  young 
babes  the  restlessness  of  the  child,  the  constant  motion  of 
the  head  and  the  disposition  to  rub  the  ear,  clearly  point 
to  the  ear  as  the  seat  of  the  pain. 

Discharges  from  the  ear  frequently  follow  ear-ache, 
and,  when  present,  they  indicate  that  an  abscess  has  formed 
and  broke,  or  that  a  condition  of  ulceration  of  some  of 
the  structures  of  the  ear  has  developed.  In  either  case 
neglect  to  have  the  ears  properly  cared  for  without  delay, 
often  results  in  total  deafness.  This  is  particularly  true  in 
cases   resulting  as  a  sequence  of  scarlet  fever,  or  measles. 

Treatment. — As  soon  as  a  pain  in  the  ear  is  recog- 
nized, the  ear  should  be  syringed  with  water  that  feels 
quite  warm  to  the  finger.  This  will  remove  any  foreign 
body  or  accumulation  of  wax  that  may  be  lodged  there, 
and  the  heat  will  ease  the  pain.  A  little  bag  of  hot  salt 
held  against  the  ear  will  also  prove  serviceable.  If  these 
means  fail  to  give  relief,  heat  a  little  laudanum  in  a  tea- 
spoon, and,  when  it  feels  warm  to  the  finger,  drop  fifteen  or 
twenty  drops  into  the  ear,  and  then  fill  the  orifice  with 
absorbent  cotton.  If  this  still  fails  to  give  relief,  a  physi- 
cian must  be  consulted. 


344  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

In  no  case  of  discharge  from  the  ear  should  a  child  be 
allowed  to  go  without  proper  surgical  treatment,  and  this 
should  be  continued  till  the  ear  is  restored  to  its  normal 
condition.  Thousands  of  deaf  mutes  owe  their  affliction 
to  neglect  of  disorders  of  the  ear  during  infancy,  in  which 
the  deafness  results  from  a  destruction  of  the  mechanism 
of  the  ear  by  inflammation  and  ulceration  that  might  have 
been  prevented  by  skillful  treatment. 

INFANTILE    LEUCORRHCEA. 

Girls  from  one  to  twelve  years  of  age  frequently 
suffer  from  a  slight  discharge  from  the  vulva,  and  some- 
times the  discharge  is  excessive  and  an  active  inflamma- 
tion is  present.  It  may  result  from  neglect  in  properly 
cleaning  the  parts  while  bathing  the  child,  exposure  to 
cold,  or  from  an  acrid  condition  of  the  urine.  It  often 
occasions  great  suffering  for  a  considerable  time  before  it 
is  discovered. 

Treatment. —  If  the  urine  smells  strong  and  the  sur- 
rounding parts  are  chapped,  two  or  three  grains  of  bicar- 
bonate of  potash  should  be  given  in  a  little  water  three  or 
four  times  a  day.  The  parts  should  be  thoroughly  cleansed, 
and  then  bathed  with  a  carbolic  acid  wash,  of  the  strength 
of  20  drops  of  carbolic  acid  to  a  gobletful  of  tepid 
water.  If  the  discharge  comes  from  inside  the  vagina  the 
following  should  be  used:  Fluid  hydrastis,  I  dram;  tepid 
water,  8  ounces.  Mix,  and  inject  gently  into  the  vagina 
with  a  small-nozzled  bulb  syringe.  The  entire  quantity 
should  be  used  at  once,  and  repeated  two  or  three  times  a 
day. 

PHIMOSIS   AND    PARAPHIMOSIS. 
Male  infants  often  suffer  much  annoyance    from  an 
unusually  long  prepuce  or  foreskin.     When  it  cannot  be 


SCALD-HEAD.  345 

drawn  back  so  as  to  expose  the  glans  penis,  or  head  of 
the  penis,  it  frequently  becomes  the  seat  of  inflamma- 
tion, and  the  condition  is  called  phimosis.  In  some  cases 
it  may  be  drawn  back  with  difficulty,  but  cannot  be  drawn 
forward  again.  In  this  condition  the  parts  become 
inflamed,  and  the  head  of  the  penis  is  constricted  and 
becomes  very  painful.  These  conditions  render  the  child 
uncomfortable  and  fretful,  and  sometimes  gives  rise  to 
marasmus,  or  a  general  wasting  of  the  body.  The  condi- 
tion of  phimosis  often  renders  urination  difficult,  and 
makes  the  child  very  irritable  and  restless. 

Treatment. — The  prepuce  should  be  examined  by  the 
physician  soon  after  birth,  and,  if  the  child  has  any  trouble 
in  making  water,  the  nurse  should  be  instructed  how  to 
draw  the  foreskin  back  so  as  to  cleanse  the  g/ans  penis. 
If  this  can't  be  done,  and  any  signs  of  inflammation  are 
present,  it  is  always  advisable  to  perform  the  operation  of 
circumcision.  This  not  only  relieves  the  child,  but  saves 
him  much  trouble  in  after  life. 

SCALD-HEAD. 

Scald-head  is  a  disease  of  the  scalp  caused  by  the 
presence  of  parasites.  It  is  contagious,  and  is  often  com- 
municated from  one  child  to  another  in  school.  It  devel- 
ops a  pale  yellow  crust  which  forms  in  patches  or  may 
extend  over  the  entire  scalp.  It  is  usually  due  to  the  lack 
of  proper  cleansing  of  the  scalp,  but  most  frequently 
attacks  puny  and  delicate  children. 

Treatment. — The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  cut  the 
hair  as  close  as  possible.  Then  a  lage  flaxseed  meal 
poultice  should  be  applied,  as  hot  as  can  be  borne,  over 
the  entire  scalp,  and  removed  every  hour   or  two  till  the 


34^  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

crusts    are    all   loosened.     They  should  then  be  carefully 

removed,  and  the  following  ointment  should  be  applied  to 

the    raw  surfaces  :   Salicylic  acid,    10  grains  ;   vaseline,  I 

ounce.      Mix,  and  apply  to  the  scalp  two  or  three   times  a 

day.     The    scalp    should    be    washed    every    night    and 

morning  with  twenty  drops  of  carbolic  acid  dissolved  in  a 

goblet  of  tepid  water.     If  the  scales   begin  to  form    again 

the  poultice  should  be  again  used. 

In  feeble  children  ten  drops  of  dialyzed  iron  should 

be  given  in  a  mouthful  of  water  three  or  four  times  a 

day. 

SCABIES,    OR   ITCH. 

Itch  is  a  parasitic  disease,  which  usually  makes  its 
appearance  between  the  fingers  and  on  the  wrists,  in  the 
form  of  little  blisters  containing  a  clear  fluid.  Intense 
itching  is  always  present,  and  scratching  always  aggravates 
this  symptom.  The  disease  is  often  communicated  from 
one  child  to  another  in  school  and  at  play. 

Treatment.  — The  object  of  treatment  in  this  disease 
is  to  destroy  the  parasite.  This  is  best  done  with  95  per 
cent,  carbolic  acid  in  the  following  manner:  Take  the 
plain  end  of  a  match,  or  any  small  piece  of  pine,  and  sat- 
urate it  in  pure  carbolic  acid.  Then  break  the  blister  and 
press  the  end  of  the  match  into  the  center  of  the  blister. 
By  repeating  this  with  each  blister  the  parasite  will  certainly 
be  destroyed.  After  this,  the  following  will  almost  inva- 
riably effect  a  cure:  Acid  salicylic,  20  grains;  vaseline,  I 
ounce.     Mix,  and  apply  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

HEAD   LICE. 

Head  lice  are  commonly  found  in  the  heads  of  chil- 
dren while  attending  school,  no  matter  how  much  care  is 
taken  with  the  child  at  home. 


worms.  347 

Treatment. — The  lice  should  be  removed  as  thor- 
oughly as  possible  with  a  fine-toothed  comb,  and  then  the 
head  bathed  with  an  infusion  of  larkspur  seeds.  To  make 
this  infusion  take  one  ounce  of  powdered  larkspur  seeds,  and 
pour  on  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cover  the  vessel  in 
which  it  is  made,  and  allow  it  to  stand  till  it  becomes 
tepid.  If  the  hair  and  scalp  are  once  thoroughly  washed 
with  this  preparation,  a  single  treatment  is  all  that  is  ne- 
cessary to  destroy  the  lice.  In  some  cases  it  may  be 
necessary  to  repeat  the  treatment  two  or  three  times. 

WORMS. 

Various  kinds  of  parasites  are  found  in  the  intestinal 
canal,  but  the  most  common  among  children  are  the 
round  or  stomach  worms,  and  thread  or  pin  worms. 
A  child  who  has  stomach  worms  has  a  ravenous  appetite 
at  one  time,  and  has  no  desire  for  food  at  another  ;  the 
abdomen  is  distended  ;  colicky  pains  are  felt  about  the 
navel  ;  there  is  an  itching  of  the  nose  and  anus  ;  sleep  is 
disturbed  by  unpleasant  dreams  and  grinding  of  the  teeth; 
the  breath  has  a  peculiar  fetid  odor  ;  diarrhoea  is  often 
present  with  mucus  and  blood  mixed  with  the  stool ;  the 
face  is  drawn,  dark  lines  appear  under  the  eyes,  and  the 
child  becomes  greatly  emaciated  in  spite  of  a  usually  good 
appetite.  Sometimes  an  examination  of  the  stool  will 
lead  to  finding  that  worms  have  been  passed. 

Pin-worms  are  small,  not  being  more  than  from  a 
quarter  to  half  an  inch  in  length.  They  are  usually 
located  in  the  rectum  and  in  the  folds  at  the  verge 
of  the  anus.  There  is  a  severe  itching  and  pain  of  the 
rectum  and  around  the  anus,  which  is  usually  followed  by 
tenesmus,    or   spasmodic    action    of  the   muscles    of    the 


348  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

rectum.  The  bowels  are  relaxed,  and  the  stool  fetid,  and 
a  careful  examination  will  result  in  finding  these  worms 
around  the  verge  of  the  anus.  In  girls  they  often  crawl 
into  the  vagina,  and  gave  rise  to  leucorrhcea. 

Treatment. — The  child  should  fast  for  about  twelve 
hours,  and  then  the  following  should  be  given:  Santo- 
nine,  5  grains;  powdered  sugar,  i  teaspoonful.  Rub 
together  thoroughly,  and  give  the  entire  quantity  at  bed- 
time, after  fasting.  A  full  dose  of  castor  oil  should  be 
given  the  next  morning  before  breakfast,  and  usually  the 
worms  are  expelled  as  soon  as  the  oil  operates.  If  not, 
the  dose  may  be  repeated  several  days  in  succession. 

For  pin-worms,  in  addition  to  the  above,  15  drops 
of  carbolic  acid  should  be  added  to  a  goblet  of  tepid 
water,  and  the  whole  quantity  injected  into  the  rectum 
after  the  oil  has  acted,  and  the  parts  adjacent  to  the  anus 
should  be  bathed  with  the  same  carbolic  wash. 

WEAK   SPINES   AND  SPINAL   DEFORMITIES. 

Children  who  lack  physical  development  often  have  a 
feeling  of  weakness  of  the  muscles  of  the  back,  and  a 
desire  for  support,  which  soon  results  inthe  habit  of  sink- 
ing down  while  sitting,  so  as  to  cause  a  roundness  of  the 
back  or  leaning  to  one  side.  Children  who  sit  sideways 
at  school  with  one  arm  resting  on  the  slanting  desk,  also 
develop  a  tendency  to  weak  spines  and  curvatures.  If 
these  conditions  continue,  serious  deformity  must  develop, 
and  thus  impair  the  health,  as  well  as  make  the  sufferer 
an  object  of  pity  through  his  deformities. 

Spinal  deformities  may  be  either  in  the  form  of 
lateral  curvature  or  posterior  curvature.  The  first  is 
caused  by  weak  spines  and  assuming  unnatural  positions 


WEAK   SPINES   AND    SPINAL   DEFORMITIES.  349 

during  the  development  of  the  bones  and  muscles;  while 
the  last  is  caused  by  direct  local  injury,  or  a  bad  condition 
of  the  system. 

As  soon  as  the  slightest  deformity  is  recognized,  or 
if  a  child  shows  a  desire  to  support  the  head  with  his 
hands,  or  catches  the  articles  of  furniture  to  lean  on,  and 
thus  relieve  the  pressure  on  the  spine,  a  surgeon  who  has 
had  experience  in  such  cases  should  be  consulted. 
The  Plaster-of-Paris  jacket  is  the  only  method  of  treat- 
ment that  can  be  relied  upon  in  such  cases,  and  the 
sooner  it  is  applied  the  better  it  will  be.  The  treatment 
usually  extends  over  a  period  of  years,  but,  in  the  end, 
the  deformity  is  entirely  cured. 


I 


CHAPTER  X. 

DISEASES  OF  WOMEN. 

Diseases  of  the  Vulva  and  Vagina  —  Inflammation  and  Ulceration  of 
the  Womb  —  Leucorrhcea  —  Displacements  of  the  Womb  — 
Tumors  of  the  Womb  —  Diseases  of  the  Ovaries — Cancer — 
Hysteria. 

The  structural  and  functional  differences  of  the  sexes 
render  each  liable  to.  special  diseases,  which  require  to 
be  separately  considered.  Those  peculiar  to  women  have 
received  a  large  share  of  attention,  and  much  injury  has 
been  done  by  ignorant  physicians  undertaking  to  treat 
female  diseases.  It  is,  therefore,  very  important,  that 
women  should  make  themselves  sufficiently  familiar  with 
the  symptoms  of  the  various  diseases  to  which  they  are 
specially  liable,  to  enable  them  to  know  something  of  their 
own  condition  and  the  treatment  necessary  for  their  relief. 
This  knowledge  would  often  save  them  from  the  imposi- 
tion and  ignorance  of  self-styled  specialists,  and  always 
enable  them  to  avert  the  evil  consequences  that  are  sure 
to  follow  neglect  of  proper  treatment  at  the  outset  of  the 
trouble.  As  but  few  of  these  diseases  can  be  treated  at 
home,  I  shall  only  consider  each  subject  in  brief,  and 
point  out  such  leading  facts  and  symptoms,  as  will  prove 
of  the  greatest  benefit  to  the  women  of  every  household. 

In  studying  these  subjects  the  reader  will  find  it  a 
great  advantage  to  refer  to  Chapter  L,  when  at  a  loss  to 
understand  the  exact  nature  and  location  of  the  disease 
under  discussion. 

350 


A  STUDY. 


DISEASES    OF   THE   VULVA   AND    VAGINA.  35 1 

The  vulva,  or  external  organs  of  generation,  may  be 
the  seat  of  inflammation,  tumors  and  deformities  of  various 
kinds;  while  the  vagina,  or  canal  leading  to  the  womb, 
may  be  similarly  affected,  The  most  common  of  these 
disorders  are  inflammation,  ulceration,  abscess  and  tumors 
of  the  vulva  ;  occlusion  of  the  vulva  ;  tumors  of  the  uri- 
nary passage  ;  hypertrophied  clitoris  ;  and  itching  of  the 
vulva ;  inflammation,  ulceration  and  occlusion  of  the 
vagina  ;   and  vaginismus. 

Inflammation  of  The  Vulva.  — The  female  exter- 
nal generative  organs  are  liable  to  inflammation  the  same 
as  any  other  part  of  the  body.  It  may  result  from  cold, 
or  from  inflammation  of  the  vagina  extending  outward  to 
the  vulva.  The  parts  are  hot,  painful  and  swollen,  and  some- 
times there  may  be  a  discharge  from  the  mucous  surfaces. 

When  the  inflammation  is  severe,  sometimes  the  mu- 
cous membrane  is  destroyed,  thus  leaving  a  small  raw  sore, 
which  often  spreads  rapidly  and  eats  into  the  underlying 
tissue.  This  condition  is  called  an  ulcer,  and  is  always  a 
sequence  of  inflammation.  Sometimes  there  is  a  deep- 
seated,  beating,  throbbing  pain  on  the  lips  of  the  vulva, 
which  continues  for  a  few  days.  An  examination  will 
show  a  hard  lump  at  the  seat  of  the  pain,  which  gradually 
softens,  and  finally  comes  to  the  surface,  breaks  and  dis- 
charges matter  or  pus.  This  condition  is  another  sequence 
of  inflammation,  and  is  called  an  abscess. 

Treatment. —  In  ordinary  inflammation  hot  applica- 
tions should  be  made  to  the  part,  a  bag  of  hops  wrung 
out  of  hot  water  being  the  best,  and  the  surface  should  be 
freely  bathed  with  the  following  wash:  Fluid  hydrastis, 
1^  ounce;  laudanum,  y2  ounce;  hot  water,  1  pint.  Mix, 
and  apply  to  the  part  every  hour  or  two. 


352  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

If  there  is  an  ulcer  present,  it  should  be  dried  with  a 
piece  of  absorbent  cotton,  and  touched  with  a  small  piece 
of  pine  stick  saturated  in  pure  carbolic  acid.  As  soon  as 
the  surface  touched  turns  white,  apply  the  cotton  again  to 
prevent  the  acid  from  spreading.  Then  apply  the  follow- 
ing ointment:  Salicylic  acid,  10  grains;  vaseline,  I  ounce. 
Mix,  and  apply  to  the  sore  two  or  three  times  a  day.  A 
piece  of  absorbent  cotton  should  be  applied  over  the  oint- 
ment, and  the  patient  should  keep  the  recumbent  position 
till  the  ulcer  heals.  If  there  is  any  reason  to  suspect  a 
venereal  ulcer,  a  physician  should  be  consulted. 

In  case  of  the  deep-seated  throbbing  pain  being  felt, 
a  physician  should  be  called  at  once,  and  he  should  be  al- 
lowed to  open  into  the  hard  lump  with  a  knife.  This 
stops  the  pain  and  aborts  the  abscess,  thus  saving  much 
suffering  and  destruction  of  tissue. 

Tumors  of  the  Vulva.  —  Small  tumors  are  often  dis- 
covered on  either  side  of  the  orifice  of  the  vulva,  imbedded 
in  the  greater  lips.  They  may  be  simple  and  occasion  no 
inconvenience,  or  they  may  be  attended  with  pain,  and 
obstruct  the  entrance  to  the  vagina.  In  any  case,  when 
such  tumors  are  discovered,  a  surgeon  should  be  consulted, 
and  the  tumor  should  be  removed,  for  we  can  never  know 
how  soon  it  may  occasion  serious  trouble. 

Occlusion  of  the  Vulva. —  Sometimes  the  edges 
of  the  vulva  are  grown  together  at  birth,  so  as  to  com- 
pletely occlude  the  opening  into  the  vagina.  This  should 
be  rectified  at  once  by  the  attending  physician.  Some- 
times, however,  the  closure  is  only  partial,  and  may  escape 
notice  till  puberty,  even  till  marriage,  when  it  is  found  that 
the  marital  act  cannot  be  accomplished. 

When  such  a  condition   is   discovered,  a  competent 


DISEASES    OF   THE   VULVA   AND   VAGINA.  353 

surgeon  should  be  consulted  at  once,  as  it  can  be  fully- 
corrected  by  the  proper  operation. 

Tumors  of  the  Urinary  Passage. — The  orifice 
of  the  vagina  is  sometimes  very  sensitive  to  the  touch, 
and  there  is  a  frequent  desire  to  urinate,  with  severe  pain 
attending  the  passage  of  the  urine.  These  symptoms 
indicate  an  irritation  of  the  orifice  of  the  urethra,  and  a 
careful  examination  will  reveal  the  presence  of  one  or 
more  little  growths  in  the  meatus,  commonly  called 
caruncles. 

When  these  growths  are  present  no  treatment  but 
their  removal  will  afford  the  slightest  relief,  and  this  should 
be  done  as  soon  as  possible,  to  prevent  an  inflammation 
extending  along  the  urethra  into  the  bladder. 

Hypertrophied  Clitoris. — The  clitoris  in  some 
women  is  extremely  long,  and  is  liable  to  erections  similar 
to  those  of  the  male  organ.  This  condition  sometimes 
gives  rise  to  the  idea  of  double  sex.  When  a  source 
of  annoyance  a  surgeon  should  be  consulted. 

Itching  of  the  Vulva. —  An  intolerable  itching 
is  experienced  around  the  external  organs  of  generation, 
sometimes  as  a  result  of  disease  of  the  vagina,  womb, 
rectum  or  bladder,  and  sometimes  during  pregnancy. 
The  itching  is  increased  by  warmth,  and  by  the  use  of 
stimulants,  and  is  often  worse  at  night  than  any  other 
time.  Sometimes  there  is  no  local  evidence  of  irritation, 
while,  again,  little  pimples  or  a  redness  of  the  skin  may  be 
seen. 

Treatment.  —  Frequent  bathing  of  the  part  with  a 
strong  borax  water  is  always  desirable,  but  the  condition 
of  the  surrounding  organs  must  be  looked  to  to  effect  a 
cure  of  the  trouble.     A  solution  of  a  teaspoonful  of  car- 


354  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

bolic  acid  to  half  a  pint  of  water,  used  as  a  wash  five  or 
six  times  a  day,  will  always  afford  relief  till  the  conditions 
causing  it  can  be  reached. 

Inflammation  of  the  Vagina. —  Inflammation  of 
the  vagina  may  be  brought  on  by  exposure  to  cold,  injury 
from  the  use  of  improper  pessaries,  the  use  of  astringent 
or  cold  injections  to  prevent  conception,  lack  of  cleanli- 
ness, childbirth,  sexual  abuse  and  specific  venereal  poison. 

The  symptoms  are  itching  in  the  vagina,  followed  by 
great  heat  and  burning,  a  frequent  desire  to  urinate,  with 
a  sensation  of  scalding  when  the  urine  is  passed,  an  aching 
and  dragging  of  the  vagina  and  around  the  anus,  pain  in 
the  pelvis  and  lower  part  of  the  back,  a  free  discharge  of 
yellowish  matter,  and  excoriation  of  the  external  parts 
from  contact  with  the  acrid  discharges. 

Treatment. — The  patient  should  keep  in  bed,  and 
apply  hot  fomentations  of  hops  on  the  vulva  and  lower 
part  of  the  abdomen,  and  change  them  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  cool.  A  quart  of  hot  water  should  be  used  with 
a  fountain  syringe  to  wash  out  the  bladder  every  three 
hours,  and,  if  the  pain  is  severe,  an  ounce  of  laudanum 
may  be  mixed  with  the  water  each  time.  The  patient 
should  be  kept  on  her  back  in  the  recumbent  posture,  and 
a  bed-pan  used.  When  the  acute  symptons  have  sub- 
sided, the  following  will  be  found  of  great  service  : 
Acetate  of  lead  and  sulphate  of  zinc,  of  each,  3  drams; 
tincture  of  catechu  and  laudanum,  of  each,  1  ounce  ;  water, 
enough  to  make  6  ounces.  Mix,  shake  well  before  using, 
and  put  two  teaspoonfuls  into  half  a  pint  of  tepid  water, 
and  use  as  an  injection.  Repeat  the  injection  three  or 
four  times  a  day. 

If  the   patient  is  irritable,  and  suffering  much  pain, 


DISEASES   OF   THE   VULVA   AND    VAGINA.  355 

five  drops  of  the  tincture  of  gelsemium  may  be  given  every 
half-hour  till  relieved,  but  only  six  or  eight  doses  should 
be  given  at  the  half-hour  intervals.  The  bowels  should 
be  kept  regular  by  taking  one  compound  podophyllin  pill 
at  bed-time,  as  required.  Sometimes  an  ounce  of  castor 
oil  will  answer  better. 

If  there  is  any  reason  to  suspect  that  the  inflamma- 
tion is  caused  by  a  specific  poison  communicated  by  the 
male,  a  physician  should  be  consulted. 

Ulceration  of  the  Vagina. —  Sometimes  an 
inflammation  of  the  vagina  results  in  the  formation  of 
one  or  more  ulcers  or  sores,  which  have  a  great  tendency 
to  spread,  and  occasion  much  suffering.  In  such  cases 
treatment  directly  to  the  ulcerated  surface  is  necessary, 
and  this  can  only  be  done  by  the  physician. 

Occlusion  of  the  Vagina. — The  vagina  is  some- 
times found  with  a  band  or  partition  stretching  across  the 
entrance  or  along  its  canal,  with  only  a  small  opening 
through  it.  This  is  rarely  discovered  till  after  marriage, 
and  then  it  is  supposed  that  the  woman  has  some  defect 
that  cannot  be  corrected.  This  is  a  great  mistake.  When 
such  a  condition  is  discovered,  a  surgeon  can  almost  inva- 
riably remedy  it  by  an  operation. 

VAGINISMUS.  — The  term  vaginismus  is  the  name 
given  to  a  painful  contraction  of  the  vagina,  which  ren- 
ders coitus  impossible.  It  is  associated  with  a  thickening 
of  the  hymen,  and  the  contraction  is  due  to  the  extreme 
sensitiveness  of  the  hymen  and  the  membrane  lining  the 
vulva.  It  is  rarely  discovered  till  after  marriage,  and  then 
it  often  leads  to  great  unhappiness,  and  often  to  separation. 

An  operation  will  completely  relieve  the  trouble,  and 
secure  a  natural  accomplishment  of  the  marital  relation. 


356  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

INFLAMMATION   AND    ULCERATION   OF   THE   WOMB. 

The  several  tissues  of  the  womb  are  liable  to  inflam- 
mation, and  the  sequences  resulting  therefrom.  We  may- 
have  congestion  or  inflammation  of  the  neck  of  the  womb, 
or  ulceration  of  the  neck.  The  inflammation  may  extend 
inside  the  neck,  and  into  the  cavity  of  the  womb,  and,  if 
treatment  is  neglected,  it  usually  assumes  a  chronic  form, 
which  is  much  harder  to  cure  than  the  acute. 

The  patient  has  more  or  less  pain,  with  a  dragging  or 
bearing-down  sensation  in  the  region  of  the  womb;  pain 
in  the  small  of  the  back  and  the  very  end  of  the  spine, 
which  often  extends  down  through  the  hips  and  thighs; 
severe  headaches,  especially  on  top  of  the  head,  are  also 
common;  and  there  is  always  more  or  less  discharge  from 
the  vagina. 

These  symptoms  clearly  indicate  some  disease  of  the 
womb,  and  no  time  should  be  lost  in  consulting  a  physician 
for  examination  and  treatment. 

LEUCORRIKEA. 

Leucorrhcea,  which  means  a  "  white  flow,"  is  the 
term  generally  applied  to  all  whitish  or  yellowish  dis- 
charges escaping  from  the  vagina.  It  is  popularly  called 
"  the  whites."  It  is  only  a  symptom  of  some  disease  of 
the  vagina  or  womb,  and  as  such  should  direct  attention 
to  the  necessity  of  resorting  to  proper  treatment.  Even 
when  no  other  symptom  is  present,  it  indicates  a  chronic 
inflammation  that  should  not  be  neglected. 

Treatment. —  To  control  the  discharge  a  pint  of  tepid 
water,  in  which  is  dissolved  an  even  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  borax  and  a  teaspoonful  of  fluid  Hydrastis  should 
be  used  as  an  injection  two  or  three  times  a  day.  If  there 
is  tenderness  of  the  vagina  or  womb,  a  tablespoonful  of 


DISPLACEMENTS    OF   THE   WOMB.  357 

laudanum  and  30  grains  of  acetate  of  lead  should  be 
added  to  the  pint  of  tepid  water,  and  used  as  an  injection, 
and  repeated  three  or  four  times  a  day. 

Attention  should  be  paid  to  securing  a  nutritious  diet, 
long  walks  and  standing  long  at  a  time  should  be  avoided, 
and,  if  the  patient  is  debilitated,  as  is  usually  the  case,  the 
elixir  of  calisaya,  iron  and  strychnine  should  be  taken  in 
teaspoonful  doses  after  each  meal.  This  treatment,  how- 
ever, is  only  palliative.  An  examination  should  be  made 
by  a  competent  physician,  and  such  local  treatment  as 
may  be  deemed  necessary  should  be  begun  at  once,  and 
continued  till  a  cure  is  effected. 

DISPLACEMENTS   OF   THE   WOMB. 

The  womb,  when  once  affected  by  disease  or  injured 
during  childbirth,  is  liable  to  a  number  of  displacements, 
which  become  very  annoying,  and  frequently  result  in 
permanent  invalidism.  When  it  falls  down  into  the  vagina, 
and  is  felt  close  to  the  orifice  of  the  vulva,  it  is  called 
prolapsus  or  falling  of  the  womb;  when  the  body  falls  for- 
ward against  the  bladder,  it  is  called  anteversion,  and, 
when  the  body  is  tilted  backward  against  the  rectum,  it  is 
called  retroversion.  It  is  sometimes  bent  forward  on  itself, 
a  condition  that  is  called  anteflexion,  and,  when  bent 
backward,  it  is  called  retroflexion. 

All  these  conditions  cause  a  dragging  sensation  and 
weight  in  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen,  pain  in  the  back 
and  loins,  irritation  of  the  bladder  and  rectum,  fatigue 
after  slight  exertions,  and  the  presence  of  leucorrhcea,  or 
whites.  The  patient  can  often  put  her  finger  into  the 
vagina  and  feel  the  womb  out  of  place. 


35^  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

These  conditions  usually  render  coitus  painful  or 
impossible,  and  prevent  conception. 

The  treatment  in  these  displacements  must  first  be 
directed  to  relieving  any  chronic  inflammation  of  the 
womb,  and  then  to  restoring  its  position  and  retaining  it 
there. 

The  physician  who  has  kept  pace  with  the  progress 
of  his  profession,  will  not  use  instruments  that  do  harm, 
as  used  to  be  the  case,  but  will  use  such  as  are  constructed 
on  scientific  principles.  You  must  have  confidence  in  the 
physician  you  employ,  and  use  any  support  he  sees  fit  to 
apply.  Delay  in  having  these  displacements  corrected 
often  leads  to  serious  results. 

TUMORS    OF    THE   WOMB. 

The  v/omb  is  liable  to  be  the  seat  of  different  varie- 
ties of  tumors,  which  may  sometimes  be  mistaken  for 
pregnancy.  The  most  common  of  these  are  the  fibrous, 
or  uterine  fibroids,  uterine  polypus,  and  hydatid. 

Uterine  fibroids  develop  in  the  substance  of  the  walls 
of  the  womb,  or  grow  from  the  outside  of  the  body,  but 
those  that  grow  in  the  walls  are  the  most  common.  The 
menstrual  periods  become  very  profuse  when  a  fibroid 
begins  to  form,  the  womb  becomes  very  large,  dense  and 
hard,  and  its  weight  soon  becomes  a  source  of  great 
annoyance. 

The  polypoid  tumor  grows  inside  the  womb,  and  is 
usually  attached  by  a  small  neck.  It  is  also  attended  with 
profuse  menstruation,  sometimes  with  a  regular  hemor- 
rhage, and  with  pains  resembling  labor-pains.  These 
pains  are  caused  by  the  efforts  of  nature  to  expel  the 
tumor.  The  womb  often  attains  an  enormous  size  as  these 
tumors  develop. 


DISEASES    OF   THE    OVARIES.  359 

The  hydatid  tumor  is  in  the  form  of  a  cyst  or  sac, 
which  contains  other  little  cysts  that  contain  a  vesicular 
worm.  It  sometimes  attains  considerable  size,  and  is  fre- 
quently mistaken  for  pregnancy.  Uterine  contractions 
break  the  sac,  and  a  large  quantity  of  fluid  containing 
the  little  cysts  escapes. 

The  polypoid  and  hydatid  tumors  can  be  success- 
fully removed  by  operation,  but  uterine  fibroids,  when 
operated  on,  most  invariably  prove  fatal.  These  latter 
decrease  in  size  after  the  "  change  of  life,"  and  are  often 
greatly  benefited  by  the  continuous  current  of  electricity, 
or  galvanism.  No  woman  should  submit  to  an  operation 
for  the  removal  of  a  uterine  fibroid  without  considering 
that  ninety-nine  chances  in    a  hundred    are  against  her 

recovery. 

DISEASES    OF   THE    OVARIES. 

The  ovaries  are  liable  to  inflammation  and  various 
kinds  of  enlargements,  that  interfere  with  the  natural 
appearance  of  the  menstrual  flow. 

Inflammation  of  the  Ovaries. —  Inflammation  of 
the  ovaries  may  result  from  cold,  may  follow  confinement 
or  miscarriage,  or  may  be  caused  by  inflammation  of  the 
womb  or  peritoneum.  The  symptoms  are  tenderness  and 
pain  just  above  the  groin,  tenderness  on  pressure  at 
the  same  point,  a  burning  sensation  of  heat,  scanty  or 
absent  menstruation,  with  great  pain  at  the  time  the 
menses  should  appear,  and  more  or  less  febrile  disturbance 
with  local  increase  of  heat. 

Treatment.  — The  immediate  attention  of  the  physi- 
cian is  requisite,  to  give  the  necessary  remedies  to  afford 
relief.  There  are  different  conditions  which  require  dif- 
ferent treatment,  and  this  fact  should  be  early  recognized. 


2>6o  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

In  extreme  cases  the  ovaries  may  be  removed,  but  this 
operation  should  only  be  consented  to  as  a  last  resort,  and 
then  only  after  careful  consideration,  and  a  full  under- 
standing of  its  dangers. 

Ovarian  Tumors.  — As  a  rule,  little  is  known  as  to 
the  cause  of  ovarian  tumors.  They  differ  in  character 
and  size.  Usually  they  attain  enormous  size,  and  after  a 
time  become  dangerous  to  life  from  their  pressure  on 
vital  organs.  When  they  begin  to  develop  rapidly  they 
seriously  endanger  life  in  a  few  months,  and  the  longer 
they  remain  the  more  difficult  is  the  operation  for  their 
removal. 

Modern  surgery  has  made  it  possible  to  operate  on 
these  tumors,  and  to  be  successful  in  90  per  cent,  of  the 
cases.  It  is  wise,  however,  to  have  the  operation  per- 
formed as  early  as  possible  after  a  correct  diagnosis  has 
been  arrived  at.  The  surgeon  who  operates,  should 
follow  the  treatment  of  the  case  throughout,  instead  of 
leaving  it  to  his  assistants,  as  is  too  often  the  case  in  large 

institutions. 

CANCER. 

Malignant  tumors,  commonly  called  cancers,  constitute 
one  of  the  most  distressing  afflictions  known  to  science, 
and  more  erroneous  ideas  prevail  concerning  them  than 
about  any  other  disorder. 

Cancer,  when  left  to  itself,  is  certain  to  terminate 
fatally  in  from  six  months  to  two  years.  So-called  cancers 
that  people  are  said  to  have  suffered  from  for  years  are  not 
cancers,  but  some  other  form  of  tumor  which  may  have 
latterly  assumed  a  cancerous  condition.  They  occur  in 
some  form  at  all  stages  of  life  and  in  every  organ  of  the 
body,  but  in  women  they  most  frequently  appear  in  the 


CANCER.  361 

breast  and  in  the  womb.  Any  permanent  lump  in  the 
breast  should  be  regarded  with  suspicion,  and,  when  a 
darting,  shooting  pain  is  felt,  and  there  appears  the  slight- 
est retraction  of  the  nipple,  it  is  certain  that  a  cancer  is 
developing.  When  the  womb  remains  tender  and  sore, 
when  it  is  hard  to  the  touch,  or  has  a  cauliflower  appear- 
ance, or  bleeds  whenever  it  is  slightly  touched,  and  when 
there  is  a  very  fetid  discharge,  a  cancer  of  the  womb 
may  be  safely  diagnosed. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  put  off  consulting  a  surgeon 
about  a  suspected  cancer  It  should  be  done  at  once,  and 
the  safest  treatment  is  an  early  and  free  extirpation  with 
the  surgeon's  knife.  The  use  of  plasters  and  salves  often 
hastens  the  fatal  termination  of  a  genuine  cancer,  while 
hundreds  of  simple  tumors  are  "drawn  out  "and  advertised 
as  cancers. 

I  have  operated  on  a  large  number  of  cases,  and  I 
have  always  been  successful  when  the  operation  was  per- 
formed before  the  tissue  broke  down  or  became  adherent 
to  the  surrounding  parts. 

The  reason  so  many  bad  results  have  been  reported 
after  the  use  of  the  knife,  is  that  the  operations  have  not 
been  performed  till  the  system  was  thoroughly  saturated 
with  the  poison,  and  the  reason  so  many  good  results  are 
claimed  for  the  plasters  is  that  the  large  majority  of  cases 
so  treated  are  not  cancers,  but  different  forms  of  simple 
tumors.  Let  all  cancers  be  removed  early  by  the  knife, 
and,  if  the  operation  is  properly  performed,  they  will  rarely 
return. 

HYSTERIA. 

Hysteria,  or  hysterics,  though  classed  with  diseases 
of  women,  is  a  nervous  disorder  common  to  both  sexes. 


362  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

It  is  marked  by  extreme  irritability  and  excitability  of  the 
nervous  system,  and  often  takes  on  convulsive  paroxysms, 
or  short  attacks  of  acute  mania.  It  is  not  of  itself  a 
disease,  but  a  symptom  which  attends  many  forms  of 
organic  or  functional  disorders.  An  hysterical  patient 
should  not  be  looked  upon  with  reproach,  as  is  often  the 
case,  for  they  usually  suffer  more  than  any  one  has  any 
idea  of. 

A  person  suffering  from  these  paroxysms  should  at 
once  place  herself  under  the  care  of  a  physician,  who  will 
ascertain  the  cause  of  the  trouble,  and  attempt  to  relieve 
that,  instead  of  giving  palliative  remedies  that  simply  quiet 
for  the  time  being. 


CHAPTER  XI. 

GENERAL    HYGIENE. 

Condition  of  Dwellings  —  Dress  —  Rest  and  Sleep — Hygiene  of  the 
Skin  —  Hygiene  of  the  Digestive  Organs  —  Hygiene  of  the 
Respiratory  Organs — Hygiene  of  the  Eye  —  Hygiene  of  the  Ear 
—  Hygiene  of  the  Generative  Organs. 

It  is  necessary  that  we  should  live  in  conformity  with 
the  laws  of  nature  if  we  expect  to  enjoy  good  health,  or 
impart  it  to  our  offspring.  In  fact,  diseases  of  all  kinds  are 
but  so  many  protests  against  the  violation  of  law,  and,  if 
the  first  warnings  are  heeded,  much  suffering  and  death 
may  be  avoided.  To  insure  a  healthy  physical  structure, 
and  the  performance  of  healthy  functions,  parents  should 
carefully  follow  the  advice  given  in  the  preceding 
chapters  relative  to  the  hygiene  of  infancy,  childhood  and 
maidenhood,  as  well  as  the  directions  for  the  care  of  women 
during  pregnancy  and  parturition.  But  this  is  not  all. 
It  matters  not  how  perfect  the  physical  development  may 
be,  we  cannot  violate  nature's  law  with  impunity  at  any 
period  of  life. 

Much  of  the  ill  health  of  women  is  due  to  preventable 
causes,  and,  if  they  would  preserve  their  health  and  beauty 
and  give  birth  to  healthy  children,  they  must  conform  to 
the  general  laws  of  hygiene,  a  synopsis  of  which  is  here- 
in given. 

CONDITION    OF   DWELLINGS. 

The  condition  of  dwellings  has  much  to  do  with  the 
health  of  the  family,  and  every  home  should  be  provided 

363 


364  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

with  proper  sewerage  and  drainage,  good  ventilation  and 
an  abundant  supply  of  sunlight. 

When  the  location  and  construction  of  the  house  can 
be  regulated,  as  is  usually  the  case  in  country  towns,  the 
building  should  be  surrounded  by  a  plat  of  ground  so 
that  windows  open  directly  into  every  room.  As  far  as 
possible  the  sleeping-rooms  and  sitting-rooms,  where 
women  spend  most  of  their  time,  should  have  a  sunny 
exposure. 

Sewerage  and  Drainage. — The  disposal  of  the 
sewage  is  an  important  matter,  which,  as  a  rule,  is  bet- 
ter provided  for  in  large  cities  than  in  country  districts 
and  villages.  Waste-pipes  and  closets  should  be  examined 
frequently,  so  as  to  be  sure  there  is  no  leakage,  which 
might  otherwise  escape  notice  till  serious  mischief  is 
done. 

In  country  districts  where  there  is  no  regular  system  of 
sewerage,  care  is  necessary  to  prevent  the  accumulation  of 
sewage,  the  decomposition  of  which  so  often  gives  rise  to 
disease.  Earth-closets  should  be  used  instead  of  privies, 
and  all  sewage  material  should  be  collected  in  metal  tanks, 
and  removed  during  the  night  and  used  for  fertilizing  pur- 
poses. It  should,  however,  be  covered  at  once  with  a 
layer  of  earth.  Open  drains  should  be  watched  carefully, 
so  as  to  prevent  stagnation  even  of  water  in  them. 

Air  and  Ventilation. — Fresh  air  is  one  of  the 
essentials  of  health,  for  without  it  the  blood  cannot  be 
properly  oxidized,  and  hence  perfect  nutrition  becomes 
impossible.  The  evil  effects  of  breathing  vitiated  air  are 
too  well  known  to  require  mention  here,  and  it  is  only 
necessary  to  urge  the  importance  of  securing  proper  ven- 
tilation for  living-rooms  and  places  of  public  resort. 


CONDITION    OF    DWELLINGS  365 

The  proper  heating  of  houses  constitutes  an  important 
part  of  ventilation,  and  the  most  perfect  heating  apparatus 
is  that  which  carries  pure  heated  air  into  the  room.  A 
hot-air  furnace  should  always  have  an  air  shaft  from  out- 
doors to  carry  pure  fresh  air  to  the  furnace,  but  the  registers 
through  which  the  hot  air  enters  the  rooms  should  be 
above  the  heads  of  the  occupants,  instead  of  being  on  or 
near  the  floor,  as  is  the  usual  custom.  The  reason  for  this 
is  plain  when  it  is  remembered  that  the  carbonic  acid  gas, 
which  is  the  principal  impurity  in  the  air  of  rooms  where 
people  congregate,  sinks  to  the  floor  at  ordinary  tempera- 
ture, and  expands  and  rises  to  the  ceiling  when  heated. 
Now,  with  proper  ventilators  on  a  level  with  the  floor  and 
close  to  the  ceiling,  the  current  of  hot  air,  entering  midway 
between  these  points,  forces  the  impure  air  out  of  both 
these  openings.  When  the  heat  is  supplied  by  stoves  or 
heaters,  the  air  is  heated  by  radiation,  and  a  supply  of 
fresh  air  from  without  must  be  furnished  so  as  to  keep  the 
air  circulating  and  force  out  the  impure  air.  When  an 
open  fire-place  is  made  large  enough  to  throw  off  sufficient 
heat  for  warming  the  room,  it  is  the  best  method  of  heat- 
ing and  ventilating  that  can  be  employed.  While  the 
heat  is  radiating  from  the  fire,  the  draft  draws  the  impure 
air  up  the  chimney,  and  creates  a  vacuum  for  fresh  air, 
thus  keeping  the  air  in  continuous  circulation. 

The  doors  and  windows  of  ordinary  dwellings  afford 
sufficient  means  for  ventilation.  Impure  air  is  carried  out 
under  the  doors,  while  the  frequent  opening  of  the  outer 
doors  admits  fresh  air.  The  lowering  of  the  upper  sash 
of  the  window  also  aids  the  proper  ventilation. 

Sleeping-rooms  should  always  be  well  ventilated. 
Before  retiring  the  upper  sash  of  the  window  should  be 


366  FACTS   FOR    LADIES. 

lowered  a  few  inches,  and  the  door  left  slighly  ajar.  The 
bed  should  be  so  situated  that  the  current  of  air  passing 
between  the  window  and  the  door  cannot  pass  over  it. 
This  is  of  great  importance,  for  much  of  the  ill  health  of 
both  man  and  woman  comes  from  breething  vitiated  air  in 
a  close  room  during  sleep. 

Electric  lights  should  be  adopted  in  all  public  halls,  as 
they  do  not  consume  the  oxygen,  and,  when  these  cannot 
be  had,  the  lights  should  burn  in  adjoining  rooms,  and  be 
transmitted  through  plates  of  glass. 

DRESS. 

The  errors  of  dress  have  been  previously  spoken  of, 
and  are  again  mentioned  here  to  impress  upon  the  reader 
that  women  have  as  much  need  to  dress  hygienically  as 
girls  and  maidens.  A  stifTcorset,  even  if  not  tightly  laced, 
constricts  the  ribs,  and  thus  interferes  with  natural  breath- 
ing, and  at  the  same  time  keeps  up  a  constant  pressure  on 
the  liver  and  stomach,  which  cannot  but  do  harm.  A 
snugly  fitted  waist,  without  steels  or  bones,  will  insure  a 
more  natural  shape  than  any  corset  can,  and  the  women 
who  adopt  this  method  of  dress  will  soon  observe  a  feeling 
of  ease  and  comfort  they  had  not  before  known.  All 
skirts  should  be  loose  around  the  waist,  and  supported  by 
shoulder  straps  from  the  shoulders. 

The  custom,  still  adhered  to  by  so  many,  of  wearing 
long  skirts  on  the  street,  cannot  be  too  strongly  condemned. 
In  wet  weather  the  ankles  and  legs  are  kept  wet  with  slush 
and  water,  and  thus  serious  colds  are  frequently  developed. 
Street  dresses  should  not  come  below  the  ankles,  and  even 
in  the  house,  long  skirts  unnecessarily  drag  on  a  woman's 
hips  and  abdomen,  and,  sooner  or  later,  she  must  feel  the 
bad  effects  of  such  torture. 


RHEA. 


DRESS.  367 

We  frequently  hear  women  say  that  they  wish  they 
could  dress  as  comfortably  as  men  do.  They  could  do  so 
if  they  wished,  and  without  in  the  least  unsexing  them- 
selves, or  making  themselves  appear  less  attractive  than 
they  are  now. 

Underclothing  appropriate  for  the  season  of  the  year 
should  always  be  worn,  and  changes  from  heavy  to  light 
or  light  to  heavy  underwear  should  not  be  made  too  soon, 
and,  when  once  made  for  the  season,  they  should  not  be 
changed  with  every  slight  change  of  temperature. 

High-heeled  boots,  so  universally  worn  by  women, 
change  the  natural  position  of  the  body,  and  thus  not  unfre- 
quently  become  the  first  cause  ofdisplacementsofthewomb. 
Heels  should  be  low,  and  the  soles  thick  enough  to  keep 
the  feet  well  up  from  the  walks.  This  protects  the  feet 
from  damp,  and  also  from  becoming  tender  and  sore  after 
long  walks.  The  shoe  should  be  broad  enough  to  prevent 
cramping  the  foot,  and  the  sole  should  be  broader  than  the 
upper.  It  is  also  best  that  shoes  should  be  made  to  order, 
and  thus  prevent  any  undue  pressure  on  any  prominent 
part  of  the  foot. 

Women  must  remember  that  a  distorted  foot  and  a 
slender  waist  that  is  out  of  proportion  to  the  rest  of  the 
body,  are  not  looked  upon  as  beautiful.  A  full,  broad 
breast  and  still  broader  hips,  with  a  slender  waist,  con- 
stitutes a  hideous  deformity,  for  which  the  owner  must  pay 
the  penalty  sooner  or  later.  These  defects  can  be  cor- 
rected by  a  style  of  dress  that  does  not  necessitate  any 
departure  from  the  usual  forms  of  the  garments,  and  the 
body  is  developed  in  harmony  with  nature,  so  as  to  rival 
the  models  of  the  old  masters  in  their  symmetrical  beauty. 


368  FACTS    FOR    LADIES, 

REST   AND    SLEEP. 

Proper  rest  and  sleep  are  necessary  to  perfect  health. 
All  the  wasted  energies  are  restored,  and  body  and  mind 
equally  prepared  for  renewed  effort  by  the  rest  that  comes 
with  a  tranquil  sleep. 

Women  who  desire  to  preserve  their  health  should 
make  it  a  rule  to  go  to  bed  at  a  regular  hour,  and  they 
should  sleep,  as  a  rule,  eight  hours.  Those  who  retire 
early  should  arise  early,  while  those  who  retire  late 
should  sleep  in  the  morning  to  make  up  the  eight  hours. 
The  point  is  to  sleep  enough  to  completely  recuperate  the 
exhausted  energies  of  the  system.  If  the  sleep  is  broken 
by  the  care  of  children,  it  should  be  made  up  by  an  after- 
noon nap. 

A  short  rest  after  a  meal  is  always  desirable,  and 
especially  after  a  hearty  dinner. 

A  person  should  not  go  to  bed  hungry.  A  little  food 
taken  before  resting,  if  desired,  will  carry  the  blood  from 
the  head  to  the  stomach,  and  thus  insure  a  good  sleep. 
In  cases  of  insomnia,  a  light  meal  at  bed-time  will  insure 
sleep  when  everything  else  fails. 

Tea  and  coffee,  when  taken  at  the  evening  meal,  or 
before  bed-time,  produce  sufficient  brain  stimulation  in 
most  persons  to  prevent  sleep,  and  for  that  reason  should 
not  be  taken  at  night.  It  is  never  wise  to  resort  to  any 
kind  of  stimulants  or  medicine  to  produce  sleep,  but,  when 
anything  of  the  kind  seems  necessary,  a  physician  should 
be  consulted. 

A  good  supply  of  fresh  air  should  always  be  admit- 
ted to  the  room  during  sleep,  even  in  cold  weather.  The 
normal  temperature  of  the  body  can  be  maintained  by 
sufficient  bedclothing  in  cold  weather. 


HYGIENE    OF   THE   SKIN.  369 

Young  persons  should  not  sleep  with  old  people,  nor 
healthy  persons  with  those  who  are  suffering  from  any  form 
of  disease.  In  fact,  the  general  tone  and  vigor  of  the 
system  is  best  maintained  by  sleeping  alone,  and  this 
applies  to  husband  and  wife,  as  well  as  to  any  others. 

HYGIENE    OF   THE    SKIN. 

The  insensible  perspiration  constantly  carries  off  from 
the  skin  a  considerable  amount  of  material  that  would  be 
injurious  to  health  if  retained  in  the  system.  Under  the 
influence  of  exertion  and  extreme  heat  a  sensible  perspira- 
tion is  produced.  This  perspiration  is  an  excretion  from 
the  sweat  glands,  while  the  sebaceous  follicles  secrete  a 
substance  that  acts  as  natural  oil  for  the  hair  and  skin. 
Both  these  open  into  the  pores  on  the  surface  of  the  skin. 
When  the  action  of  the  skin  is  impaired,  the  lungs,  intes- 
tines and  kidneys  are  called  upon  to  do  extra  work  in 
carrying  off  the  waste  products  of  the  body,  and,  if  they 
fail  to  do  so,  disease  must  result.  Then  pimples  and  erup- 
tions appear  upon  the  skin  that  often  cause  great  annoy- 
ance. 

To  prevent  these  conditions,  the  functions  of  the  skin 
must  be  kept  active  by  frequent  bathing. 

A  tepid  or  cold  bath  should  be  taken  every  morning 
before  dressing,  but  the  water  must  never  be  so  cold  as  to 
cause  a  shock.  A  warm  bath  should  be  taken  at  least 
once  a  week  on  retiring,  and  after  either  form  of  bath  the 
skin  should  be  freely  rubbed  with  a  coarse  towel. 

A  Turkish  bath,  when  available,  is  always  a  luxury, 
and  it  is  sure  to  keep  the  skin  soft  and  velvety;  and,  when 
there  is  any  eruption  on  the  skin,  these  should  be  taken 
regularly  till  it  disappears. 


370  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Sea-bathing  is  also  a  great  luxury  to  most  people,  and 
it  frequently  acts  as  a  tonic  to  those  who  have  been  debil- 
itated from  any  cause.  If  a  delicate  person  feels  chilly 
on  going  into  the  ocean,  she  should  come  out  at  once,  and 
be  thoroughly  rubbed  with  a  coarse  towel  till  a  reaction  is 
produced.  After  one  or  two  attempts  she  will  usually  be 
able  to  take  a  reasonably  long  bath.  The  following  rules 
should  be  observed  by  sea  bathers: 

ist.    Do  not  bathe  for  two  or  three  hours  after  eating. 

2d.      Never  go  into  the  water  while  perspiring. 

3d.      Never  go  in  bathing  feeling  cold. 

4th.  Always  leave  the  water  while  you  feel  invigor- 
ated. 

5th.  Delicate  persons  should  not  bathe  longer  than 
five  minutes. 

6th.  Fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  is  long  enough  for 
any  person  to  remain  in  the  water. 

7th.  The  body  should  be  rubbed  thoroughly  with  a 
coarse  towel,  as  soon  as  leaving  the  water. 

HYGIENE    OF   THE   DIGESTIVE    ORGANS. 

Impaired  digestion  entails  much  suffering  upon  man- 
kind, and,  from  their  mode  of  life,  women  always  seem  to 
be  the  greatest  sufferers  from  this  cause. 

Walking  and  other  exercise  in  the  open  air  will 
alwrays  aid  digestion,  and  this  should  be  insisted  upon  for 
all  women.  Those  who  have  no  work  to  do  indoors  will 
find  the  use  of  Indian  clubs  or  dumb-bells  of  great  advan- 
tage. 

When  there  is  the  least  tendency  to  constipation,  it 
should  be  corrected.  If  this  can  be  done  by  eating  fruit, 
oatmeal,  etc.,  and  by  proper  exercise,  it  is  best  to  take  no 


HYGIENE   OF   THE  DIGESTIVE   ORGANS.  37 1 

medicine.  Violent  cathartics  should  always  be  avoided, 
as  they  make  the  constipation  worse.  One  drop  of  tinc- 
ture of  nux  vomica,  three  or  four  times  a  day,  will  often 
regulate  the  bowels  better  than  anything  else.  If  these 
methods  fail,  a  compound  podophyllin  pill  should  be  taken 
every  night  till  the  bowels  move  more  than  once  a  day. 

If  the  stomach  and  bowels  are  distended  after  eating, 
and  there  is  a  tendency  to  flatulence,  all  starches  and  su- 
gars should  be  excluded  from  the  diet.  These  would 
include  potatoes,  corn,  rice,  puddings  and  pastry,  sweet- 
meats, beets,  white  bread,  hominy,  and  even  oat-meal, 
among  the  articles  that  should  not  be  eaten;  while  those 
that  can  be  eaten  include  all  the  meats,  fish,  oysters,  eggs, 
milk,  beans,  peas,  tomatoes,  cauliflower,  turnips,  celery, 
lettuce  and  graham  bread  or  gluten  bread. 

The  same  diet  should  be  carefully  followed  by  those 
who  desire  to  reduce  their  flesh. 

It  is  a  great  mistake  to  load  the  stomach  when  there 
is  no  feeling  of  hunger,  and  the  practice  of  taking  cake 
or  tea  at  afternoon  or  evening  receptions  cannot  fail  to 
derange  the  stomach  if  persisted  in. 

If  any  article  of  food  is  known  to  disagree  with  a 
person,  it  should  not  be  eaten. 

Persons  who  are  rheumatic  will  do  well  to  avoid  eat- 
ing beef  and  mutton  for  a  time. 

Soup  should  always  be  taken  in  small  quantities  at 
the  beginning  of  a  meal,  and  wine  should  never  be  drank 
till  after  the  soup.  As  little  fluid  as  possible  should  be 
taken  with  a  meal,  and  the  food  should  always  be 
thoroughly  masticated  before  swallowing  it. 

Neither  mental  nor  physical  effort  should  be  made  for 
at  least  half  an  hour  after  a   meal,  as  in  either  case  the 


372  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

blood  is  drawn  from  the  stomach,  and  the  digestion  is 
arrested. 

Light  wines  may  be  used  at  dinner  with  advantage, 
but  strong  alcoholic  liquors,  as  brandy  or  whisky,  should 
never  be  used  within  an  hour  before  or  after  a  meal,  as 
the  alcohol  precipitates  the  pepsin  from  the  gastric  juice, 
and  thus  arrests  digestion. 

When  the  stomach  is  acid,  it  is  always  best  to  abstain 
entirely  from  eating  for  twenty-four  hours,  when  as  a  rule, 
it  will  correct  itself. 

It  is  always  better  to  stop  eating  before  you  feel  that 
the  stomach  is  full,  than  to  continue  till  the  stomach  feels 
uncomfortably  distended. 

As  soon  as  any   disturbance   of  the  stomach  shows  a 

tendency  to  continue,   a  physician   should   be    called    at 

once. 

HYGIENE   OF   THE   RESPIRATORY   ORGANS. 

An  abundant  supply  of  fresh  air  must  always  be  had 
to  keep  the  respiratory  organs  in  a  healthy  condition. 
Exercise  in  the  open  air  is  always  essential. 

If  the  breathing  is  short  and  the  chest  flat,  regular 
breathing  exercises  should  be  practiced  several  times  a 
day.  The  lungs  must  be  expanded  to  their  fullest  by 
taking  long  inhalations,  holding  the  air  in  the  lungs  as 
long  as  possible,  and  then  expiring  slowly.  It  is  also 
important  to  health  to  keep  the  mouth  closed  and  breathe 
through  the  nose.  This  would  prevent  much  of  the 
catarrh  and  bronchitis  so  common  in  northern  latitudes. 
The  air,  in  its  passage  through  the  nose,  is  warmed,  and 
all  particles  of  dust  and  air  germs  are  filtered  out  of  it, 
thus  protecting  the  throat,  bronchial  tubes  and  lungs  from 
irritation  that  frequently  causes  disease. 


HYGIENE    OF   THE   EYE.  373 

When  any  symptoms  of  catarrh  or  bronchitis  appear, 
they  should  be  promptly  treated  by  some  good  physician, 
before  they  become  chronic ;  and  it  should  be  remem- 
bered that  the  summer  season  is  the  only  time  in  which 
chronic  inflammation  of  the  air  passages  can  be  success- 
fully treated. 

HYGIENE    OF   THE    EYE. 

Diseases  of  the  eye  and  impaired  vision  often  result 
from  ignorance  or  carelessness  ;  while  an  inclination  to 
avoid  wearing  glasses  so  strains  the  eyes  as  to  injure  not 
only  the  eyes  themselves,  but  also  to  produce  headache 
and  a  series  of  other  nervous  disorders. 

While  reading,  the  print  should  be  held  steady  at  the 
proper  focal  distance  from  the  eyes.  If  this  is  not  done,, 
the  eye  is  weakened  by  the  constant  effort  to  retain  the 
focus.  For  this  reason  reading  on  cars  should  be  avoided, 
as  the  constant  jarring  of  the  cars  makes  it  impossible  to 
retain  the  proper  focus. 

Whenever  it  is  possible,  the  light  should  fall  on  the 
print  or  work  from  the  back  or  side.  When  we  face  a 
strong  light  the  pupils  contract,  and  shut  out  part  of  the 
light.  This  renders  vision  less  distinct,  and  the  eyes  are 
irritated  and  weakened  by  the  strong  light. 

When  particles  of  dust  or  cinders  get  into  the  eye, 
rubbing  should  be  carefully  avoided.  Close  the  lids  for  a 
few  moments,  and  the  increased  flow  of  tears  will  often 
wash  the  foreign  particles  toward  the  inner  corner  of  the 
eye,  where  they  can  be  easily  removed  with  a  soft  hand- 
kerchief. If  this  does  not  give  relief,  seize  the  lashes  of 
the  upper  lid  with  the  finger  and  thumb,  and  pull  the  lid 
forward  and  downward,  while,  with  the  index  finger  of  the 
other  hand,  the  lower  lid   is  pushed  up    under  the    upper 


374  FACTS    FOR    LADIES. 

lid.  The  lashes  of  the  lower  lid  thus  sweep  the  under 
surface  of  the  upper  lid,  and  thus  the  foreign  body  is  often 
removed. 

If  a  piece  of  steel,  iron  or  glass,  lime  or  any  other 
caustic,  gets  into  the  eye,  or  if  any  other  injury  is  inflicted 
upon  it,  surgical  aid  should  be  sought  at  once.  When 
caustic  of  any  kind  gets  into  the  eye,  some  sweet  oil  may 
be  poured  into  it  at  once.  In  all  other  cases  the  eye 
should  be  loosely  bandaged,  to  keep  it  quiet  till  the 
surgeon  arrives. 

As  soon  as  the  print  has  to  be  carried  farther  from 
the  eyes  than  usual,  it  indicates  the  necessity  of  wearing 
glasses,  and,  if  the  eyes  are  tested  and  the  proper  glasses 
used  at  once,  much  annoyance  and  injury  to  the  eye  can 
be  avoided. 

When  children  can't  see  without  getting  close  to  an 
object,  they  should  be  examined  for  near-sighted  glasses. 
Whenever  any  other  defect  of  vision  or  soreness  of  the 
eyes  shows  itself  a  competent  surgeon  or  oculist  should 
be  consulted  at  once. 

No  person  should  begin  to  use  glasses  without  having 
their  eyes  carefully  tested,  for,  when  a  glass  is  too  strong 
or  too  weak,  it  does  more  harm  than  good. 

HYGIENE    OF   THE    EAR. 

Deafness  is  often  produced  by  attempts  to  clean  the 
ears.  The  use  of  sponges,  brushes,  etc.,  in  the  ear,  usu- 
ally packs  the  natural  wax  against  the  drum  of  the  ear, 
where  it  hardens  and  causes  deafness. 

The  ear  should  not  be  washed  farther  than  can  be 
reached  with  the  end  of  the  finger. 

The   ear  should  not  be   washed  out   with  soap   and 


HYGIENE  OF  THE  GENERATIVE  ORGANS.     375 

water,  as  it  keeps  the  wax  soft,  unduly  increases  its  quan- 
tity, and  makes  it  collect  the  dust  from  the  atmosphere, 
instead  of  allowing  it  to  become  dry  and  scaly  so  that  it 
can  drop  out  naturally. 

Ear  picks  should  never  be  used,  as  they  keep  up  an 
unnatural  irritation. 

Do  not  cover  the  ears  in  cold  weather,  except  when 
exposed  to  unusually  severe  storms,  and  do  not  ride 
exposed  to  a  severe  side  wind. 

Strong  medicines  or  oils  should  never  be  dropped  in 
the  ears  except  on  the  advice  of  a  competent  surgeon. 

Cold  water  should  never  be  introduced  into  the  ear, 
as  it  produces  intense  dizziness,  and  is  sure  to  injure  the 
hearing. 

When  any  defect  of  hearing  is  recognized,  no  time 
should  be  lost  in  consulting  a  surgeon,  and  conditions  that 
may  be  easily  corrected  at  first,  may  soon  destroy  the 
hearing  if  neglected. 

HYGIENE  OF  THE  GENERATIVE  ORGANS. 

Unmarried  women  should  use  a  pint  of  tepid  water, 
in  which  is  dissolved  a  teaspoonful  of  pure  carbolic  acid, 
as  an  injection,  after  each  menstrual  period.  This  removes 
any  blood  that  has  lodged  in  the  folds  of  the  vagina,  and 
prevents  irritation  of  the  parts.  It  need  not  be  repeated 
unless  there  is  a  leucorrhceal  discharge,  in  which  case  this 
injection  should  be  used  night  and  morning  till  the  dis- 
charge disappears. 

Married  women  should  use  a  pint  of  tepid  water  to 
cleanse  out  the  vagina  every  second  or  third  day,  and  the 
above  carbolic  solution  after  menstruation. 

Cold  water  should  never  be  used,  and  extremely  hot 


376  FACTS  FOR  LADIES. 

water  is  injurious,  except  at  the  beginning  of  an  acute 
inflammation. 

The  use  of  various  medicated  waters  for  the  preven- 
tion of  conception,  serves  no  other  purpose  than  to  bring 
on  disease,  and  should,  therefore,  never  be  used,  as  they 
are  sure  to  lead  to  permanent  ill  health. 

As  soon  as  the  first  symptom  of  dragging  at  the  lower 
part  of  the  abdomen  and  about  the  hips,  pain  in  the  small 
of  the  back  and  at  the  lower  end  of  the  spine,  or  any 
persistent  discharge  from  the  vagina  is  recognized,  a 
physician  should  be  consulted,  with  the  view  of  under- 
going immediate  treatment  to  correct  the  trouble  before 
it  takes  on  a  chronic  form. 


GLOSSARY. 


Abdomen,  The  belly. 

ABORTION,  Miscarriage;  premature  labor. 

ABSCESS,  A  sequence  of  inflammation;  a  cavity  contain- 
ing pus. 

Amenorrhcea,  Absence  of  the  menses. 

Amnion,  The  internal  sac  containing  the  waters  and  fcetus. 

Antiseptic,  Against  septic  poison;  an  agent  that  pre- 
vents putrefaction. 

ANUS,  The  termination  of  the  bowel;  the  outlet  of  the 
back  passage. 

Areola,  A  colored  circle;  the  colored  circle  that  sur- 
rounds the  nipple. 

Ballottement,  The  motion  of  the  fcetus  in  the  womb, 
produced  by  alternately  pressing  on  the  abdomen 
and  against  the  womb  with  the  finger  in  the  vagina. 

Caruncles,  Small  fleshy  excrescences. 

Cholera  Infantum,  Summer  complaint;  an  inflammation 
of  the  intestines  common  to  infancy,  attended  with 
purging  and  vomiting. 

Chorea,  A  spasmodic  nervous  disorder;  St.  Vitus'  dance. 

CUTANEOUS,  Of  or  belonging  to  the  skin. 

CHLOROSIS,  Green  sickness;  an  anaemic  condition  with 
greenish  yellow  condition  of  skin,  met  with  in 
maidens. 

CHORION,  A  skin,  or  investing  membrane;  a  sac  sur- 
rounding the  fcetus  in  the  womb. 

377 


378  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Climacteric,  A  critical  period  in  life;  a  period  of  change. 
CLITORIS,  The  erectile  body  of  the  female  sexual  organs, 
situated  at  the  upper  entrance  of  the  vulva. 

col™!'  i The  sexual  act- 

Colostrum,  The  first  secretion  of  the  breasts  after  child- 
birth. 
Conception,  The  act  of  becoming  pregnant. 
Congestion,  A  determination  of  blood  to  a  part. 
Copulation,  The  sexual  act. 
CORPUS  Luteum,  A  yellow  body  left  after  the  egg  has 

escaped  from  the  ovary. 
Dentition,  The  act  of  cutting  teeth;  teething. 
Diagnosis,  The  act   of   deciding   the   character  of   the 

disease  from  the  symptoms. 
Diarrhcea,  An  unnatural  looseness  of  the  bowels. 
Digestion,  The  act  of  changing  food  into  material  for 

nutrition. 
Dysmenorrhea,  Painful  menstruation. 
Dyspepsia,  Indigestion. 
Elixir,  A   flavored   preparation  of   alcohol,  sirup    and 

water,  in  which  medicines  are  dissolved. 
Embryo,  The  impregnated  ovum,  or  egg,  in   the    early 

stages;  the  foetus  before  the  fifth  month. 
Endemic,  A   disease   confined   to    a   certain    district    or 

locality. 
Enema,  An  injection  into  the  back  passage  to  move  the 

bowels. 
Epidemic,  Upon  the  people  ;  a  disease  extending  over  the 

entire  country. 
Excretion,  That  which  is  thrown  off. 


GLOSSARY.  379 

FECUNDATION,  The  act  of  becoming  pregnant;  impreg- 
nation. 
Flatulence,  An  accumulation  of  wind  on  the  stomach 

and  bowels. 
FcETUS,  The  child  in  the  womb. 
Gestation,  The  period  of  pregnancy. 
Glans  Penis,  The  head  of  the  penis. 
Hemorrhoids,   A  disease  of  the  veins  of  the  rectum; 

piles. 
Hernia,  A  rupture;  a  breach. 
HYDROCEPHALUS,  Water  on  the   brain;   an  inflammation 

of  the  serous  membrane   of  the  brain,  followed  by  a 

watery  effusion  or  dropsy. 
Hygiene,  The  science  of  preserving  health. 
Hymen,  A  membrane  that  partially  closes  the   opening 

into  the  vagina;  the  maidenhead. 
Hysteria,  A  spasmodic  disease  of  the  nervous  system; 

hysterics. 
Impregnation,  Condition  of  being   pregnant,  or   in  the 

family- way. 
INFUSION,   A    tea;    medicine    prepared    by   steeping   the 

crude  drug  in  boiling  water. 
INSOMNIA,  Sleeplessness;   inability  to  sleep. 
LEUCORRHOZA,  A  whitish  or  yellowish  discharge  from  the 

vagina;  the  whites. 
LOCHIA,  The  discharge  that  follows  childbirth  when  the 

flow  of  blood  ceases. 
Mammary  Glands,  The  female  breasts. 
MARASMUS,  Wasting  of  flesh;   emaciation. 
Meatus,  The  mouth   of  the   urethra;  the  opening  from 

which  the  urine  passes. 


3 BO  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Meconium,  The  black  mass  first  discharged  from  a  new- 
born babe's  bowels. 

Membrane,  A  thin  layer  of  tissue. 

Menopause,  The  period  when  menstruation  ceases;  the 
"  change  of  life." 

Menorrhagia,  Profuse  menstruation. 

Menstruation,  The  monthly  flow  of  blood  from  the 
womb;  the  turns;  the  courses;  the  monthly  periods. 

NAUSEA,  Sickness  of  the  stomach  without  vomiting. 

Nitrogen,  One  of  the  elemental  gases. 

Nitrogenous,  Containing  nitrogen. 

OCCLUSION,  A  condition  of  being  shut;  closed  up. 

(Esophagus,  The  canal  leading  from  the  mouth  to  the 
stomach  ;  the  gullet. 

Osseous,  Bony. 

Ovary,  The  egg  bed;  the  organ  that  develops  the  egg. 

Ovulation,  The  process  of  t  throwing  off  the  egg  from 
the  ovary. 

OVUM,  The  egg;  the  germinal  cell  of  the  female. 

Parturition,  Childbirth;  labor;  the  act  of  giving  birth  to 
a  child. 

Parasite,  An  animal  that  lives  on  another  living  animal; 
a  minute  organism  that  exists  in  the  human  body. 

PELVIS,  The  bony  basin  that  connects  the  body  with  the 
thighs,  and  holds  the  female  generative  organs,  rec- 
tum and  bladder. 

Penis,  The  male  organ  of  copulation. 

Perineum,  The  space  between  the  vagina  and  anus. 

PERITONEUM,  A  membrane  that  lines  the  abdominal 
cavity,  and  covers  the  womb  and  ovaries  as  well  as  the 
abdominal  organs. 

Peritonitis,  Inflammation  of  the  peritoneum. 


GLOSSARY.  381 

Phlegmasia  Dolens,  Inflammation  of  the  veins  of  the 

leg  ;  milk-leg. 
Placenta,  The  afterbirth. 
POLYPUS,  A  pear-shaped  tumor  that  grows   from  mucous 

surfaces,  as  inside  the  womb. 
Pregnancy,  Being  with  child. 
Puberty,  The  age  when  menstruation  begins. 
Rectum,  The  lower  portion  of  the  bowels. 
Reproduction,  Producing  or  bringing  forth  anew. 
Respiration,  Breathing. 
Retroflexion,  Bending  backward. 
Retroversion,  Falling  backward. 
Saliva,  The  spittle. 

Scabies,  A  parasitic  disease  of  the  skin;  itch. 
Sebaceous  Glands,  small  glands  in  the  skin  that  produce 

an  oily  secretion. 
SECUNDINES,    The  afterbirth,   cord  and  membranes  that 

remain  in  the  womb  after  the  birth  of  the  child. 
SPERMATOZOA,  The  germinal  cells  of  the  male;  the  impreg- 
nating principle. 
STERILITY,  Barrenness;   being  unable  to  have  children. 
Temperament,  A  name  used  to  denote  the- differences  in 

organization  of  individuals. 
TENESMUS,  Spasm  of  the  muscles  of  the  anus. 
TONIC,  A  strength-giving  medicine. 
Tracheotomy,  Cutting  into  the  windpipe. 
TYROTOXICON,  A  poisonous  ferment  found  in  milk. 
Ureter,  The  canal  leading  from  the  kidney  to  the  blad^ 

der. 
Urethra,  The  outlet  of  the  bladder,  through  which  the 

urine  passes. 
Uterine,  Belonging  to  the  womb. 


382  FACTS   FOR   LADIES. 

Uterus,  The  womb. 

Vagina,  The  canal  leading  from  the  vulva  to  the  womb. 

Vaginal,  Belonging  to  the  vagina. 

Vaginismus,  A  spasmodic  contraction  of  the  vagina,  with 
thickened  hymen. 

Venereal,  Belonging  to  or  connected  with  sexual  inter- 
course. 

Viability,  Being  able  to  live;  having  life  manifested. 

VISCERA,  The  organs  contained  in  the  cavities  of  the 
body. 

VlTELLUS,  The  yolk. 

VULVA,  The  external  sexual  organs  of  the  female;  the 
opening  between  the  lips  of  the  female  genitals. 


INDEX 


BEAUTY. 


Alkaline  Bath 19 

Analysis  of  a  Graceful  Figure 37 

A  Beautiful  Complexion 14 

A  Graceful  Carriage 38 

An  Excellent  Hair  Wash 31 

An  Oily  Skin 19 

Beauty  of  Form 37 

Beautiful  Gray  Hair 35 

Best  Kinds  of  Soap 17 

Beware  of  Arsenic  in  Any  Form .  26 

Blackheads 20 

"Bleaches" 28 

Brushing   and  Washing  the  Hair  31 

Camphorated   Bath 18 

Care  of  the  Finger- Nails 47 

Cleanliness     the     Foundation     of 

Health 14 

Cold  Creams 20 

Cream  for  the  Hands 46 

Cure  for  Pimples 21 

Dandelion  Tea  and  Charcoal. ...  25 

Dearly  Bought  Beauty 33 

Developing  the  Bust 43 

Diet  for   Reducing  Flesh 42 

Dress  and  Color 48 

Evil  Effects  of  Glycerine 22 

Florid  and  Sallow  Complexions. .  27 

Freckles 28 

French  and  American  Corsets.  ...  40 

Hair  Dyes 36 

Health  of  Our  Forefathers 15 

How    an   Actress    Reduced    Her 

Flesh    41 

House  Dresses  Should  Be  Bright  49 
How  Italian  Ladies  Bleach  Their 

Hair 33 


How  to  Whiten  the  Hands 46 

Importance  of  Bathing 16 

Importance  of  Physical  Exercise. .  23 

Lotion  for  the  Skin 22 

Milk  Bath 18 

Outdoor  Life  Essential  to  Beauty  23 

Parisian   Habits 24 

Periodic  Examination  of  the  Teeth  45 

Perfumes 50 

Perspiratory   Glands 15 

Pimples 27 

Powders 51 

Recipe  for  Cream 21 

Recipe  for  a  Fine  Perfume 50 

Recipes    for    Removing  Tan   and 

Sunburn 26 

Remedies  for  Removing  Freckles  30 

Remedies  for  Lightening  the  Hair  35 

Remedy  for  Warding  Off  Wrinkles  25 

Roman  Methods  of  Bleaching.  . .  34 

Substitute  for  Ocean  Bath 19 

The  Hair 30 

The  Hands 45 

The  Philosophy  of  Beauty. 13 

The  Teeth 44 

The   Turkish    Bath,  a   Flesh    Re- 
ducer   42 

Toilet  Water  for  the  Bath 18 

Too  Much  Clothing  Worn 39 

Uses  of  Ammonia 19 

Use   of  Dumb-bells 37 

Value  of  Oil  and  Cold  Cream.  . .  17 

•Well-fitting    Shoes 48 

Well-gloved    I  lands 47 

Wrinkles 22 


(383) 


334 


INDEX. 


DINING. 


PAGE. 

Afternoon  Teas. 65 

Arrangement  of  the   Table 62 

Answers  to  Invitations 53 

A  Model  Dinner  Table 64 

A  Slattern  at  the  Breakfast  Table  63 

Beef,  Veal,   Mutton 72 

Carving 66 

Choice  of  Venison 73 

Choosing  Fish 69 

Concerning    Invitations 53 

Concerning    Poultry 73 

Eggs  and  Cheese 74 

Eight    Ladies  for   an    Afternoon 

Tea 52 

Flowers   Always  on  the  Table ...  62 
Flowers  Everywhere  and  in  Every 

Form 76 

Fourteen  the  Orthodox   Number  52 

Fresh  Fish 71 

General  Surroundings  of  the  Din- 
ing-room    61 

How  to  Carve  Mutton,  Lamb  or 

Venison 68 

How  to  Carve  Roast  Beef 68 

How  to  Carve  a  Tongue 69 

How  to  Carve  a  Turkey 67 

How  to  Choose    Meat 71 

How  to  Make  Dining  a  Charm. .  54 

How  to  Make  Perfect  Coffee 58 

Importance  of  Care   in  Choosing 

Pork 72 

Lake  Superior  Fish 70 

Let    the    Dming-room    be    Well 

Aired 61 

Liqueurs 58 

Lobsters  and  Crabs 70 

Luncheon 64 

Menu  for  Breakfast 79 

Menu  for  Thanksgiving  Day.  ...  77 
Menus,  with  Choice  Recipes — 

I. 

Frogs  au  Beurre — Melon — 
Cucumbers  —  Lamb  Chops 
Broiled,  Pomme  Sara  —  Cof- 
fee —  Eggs    en     Bechamel — 

Rolls 79 

II. 

Cream  of  Celery — Boiled  Sea 
Bass — Drawn  Butter — Pota- 
toes   a   la    Duchesse — Roast 


PAGE. 

Leg  of  Mutton  —  Currant 
Jelly  —  White  Turnips  — 
Mashed  Potatoes,  Browned — 
Bird's-Nest  Pudding 80 

III. 

Puree  of  Green  Peas — Baked 
Red  Snapper — Tomato  Sauce 
— Cucumbers — Roast  Quail, 
Stuffed  —  String  Beans  — 
Mashed  Potatoes — Rice  Pud- 
ding— Coffee 83 

IV. 

Tapioca  Soup — Boiled  Pick- 
erel with  Melted  Butter  — 
Boiled  Parisienne  Potatoes — 
Roast  Loin  of  Veal,  German 
Style — Lettuce  Salad — Apple 
Compote 85 


Oyster  Soup — Broiled  Shad 
Parsley  Butter  —  Mangoes 
—Roast  Turkey,  Stuffed- 
Cranberry  Sauce  —  Roast 
Goose,  Stuffed  with  Apples — 
Brown  Sweet  Potatoes — Car- 
dinal Punch — Broiled  Quail — 
Celery  Mayonnaise — English 
Plum  Puddings  —  Noisette 
Panachee  —  Apple,  Mince, 
and  Pumpkin  Pie — Coffee. . .     87 

VI. 

Tapioca  Soup  with  Rice — 
Fresh  Mackerel  with  Wine 
Sauce  —  Stewed  Potatoes  — 
Boiled  Partridge  —  Celery 
Sauce  —  Broiled  Potatoes  — 
Asparagus  Salad — Neapolitan 
Cream— Cake— Coffee 89 

VII. 

Mutton  Broth,  French  Style — 
Boiled  Halibut  —  Fleurette 
Savce — Sliced  Potatoes  with 
Cream — Venison  Steaks  with 
Olives— Boiled  Sweet  Pota- 
toes —  French  Artichokes, 
Dressed 91 


INDEX. 


385 


VIII. 

PurSe  a  la  Colbert— Baked 
Oysters  in  Shells — Mangoes 
— Stewed  Potatoes — Salmi  of 
Wild  Ducks — Browned  Sweet 
Potatoes  —  Vegetable  Salad 
with  Artichokes — Ice  Cream 
— Cake — Coffee 93 

IX. 

Vermicelli  Soup  —  Broiled 
Shad  with  Roe — Cucumbers — 
Breast  of  Mallard  Duck — 
Sweet  Potatoes — Fresh  Mush- 
rooms —  Apricot  Fritters, 
Brandy  Sauce — Coffee 96 

X. 

Soup  a  la  Chevalier — Stewed 
Lobster,  Gloucester  Style — 
Fried  Potatoes  —  Curry  of 
Chicken  with  Rice — Baked 
Macaroni — Broiled  Quail,Cel- 
ery    Mayonnaise — Coffee ....     98 

XI. 

Bouillon — Lobster  a  la  New- 
burg  —  Cutlet  of  Minced 
Sweetbreads  —  Fresh  Mush- 
rooms— Lettuce  and  Tomato 
Salad — Glace — Cake —  Coffee  100 

XII. 

Mutton  Soup  a  la  Cowley — 
Fried  Shad  Roe — Tomato 
Sauce — Cucumbers — Fillet  of 
Beef  Braised — Potato  Cro- 
quettes— Fresh  Mushrooms — 
Lettuce  and  Tomato  Salad — 
Ice  Cream — Cake — Coffee. . .   102 

XIII. 

Chicken  Gombo  —  Brandade 
de  Morue  (Codfish)  —  Cold- 
slaw  —  Boiled  Potatoes  — 
Spring  Lamb — Mint  Sauce — 
French  Peas — New  Potatoes 
— Broiled  Snipe  on  Toast — 
French  Artichokes — Dessert 
—  Coffee 104 


PAGE. 

XIV. 

Julienne  Puree — Fried  Smelts 
—  Cucumbers  —  Roulade  of 
Spring  Lamb — Mint  Sauce — 
Browned  Potatoes-  -New  As- 
paragus— Broiled  Teal  Duck 
on  Toast — Artichoke  Salad 
— Ice  Cream — Cake — Coffee.   106 

XV. 

Julienne  Soup  —  Whitefish 
Nonpareil — Parisienne  Pota- 
toes— Roast  Red  Head  Duck 
with  Jelly — Baked  Sweet  Po- 
tatoes —  Steamed  Apple 
Dumpling  —  Coffee 107 

XVI. 

Iced  Bouillon — Fillet  of  Sea 
Bass  —  Cucumbers  —  Roast 
Spring  Chicken,  Stuffed — 
Green  Peas — NewPotatoes  in 
Cream — Lettuce  and  Tomato 
Salad — Red  Raspberries  and 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream — Cake — 
Coffee 109 

Napkins  and  Napkin  Rings 61 

Never  Crowd  the  Table 76 

No  Pastry  for  the  Children 65 

Order  of  Breakfast 63 

Order  of  Dinner 64 

Order  of  Service  of  Dinner 79 

Preparation  of  the  Menu 76 

Quality  Rather  than  Quantity. . .  55 

Schedule  of  Wines  in  Order 59 

Selecting  and  Buying  Wine 60 

Temperature  of  Wine  Important.  59 

The  Breakfast  Table 61 

The  Dinner  Table  a   Study 75 

The  "  Family  "  Dinner 64 

The  Order  in  Which  Wine  Should 

Be  Served 56 

The  Secret  of  Judicious  Invitation  54 

The  Time  to  Dine 53 

The  Wine  Cellar 60 

Various  Kinds  of  Wine 57 

Vegetables 74 

Well  Trained  Help 66 


386 


INDEX. 


DECORATION. 


PAGE. 

Andrew  Carnegie's  Bed 163 

A  Dainty  New  York  Bed-room. .    148 

A  Drawing-room  Described 119 

A  Model  Gentleman's  Den 141 

A  Parisian  Drawing-room 123 

Bamboo  Racks 160 

Beauty  of  American  Wood 115 

Bed-room  Hammocks 150 

Bed-rooms  Made  Into  Show-rooms  164 

Books  Used  in  Furnishing 157 

Brass   Bedsteads 145 

Carpets  or  Rugs 124 

Chippendale  School  of  Decoration  153 
Decoration  a  Thing  of  Personality  112 
Decoration  as  Old  as  Creation ...    1 1 1 

Decoration  Woman's  Work 116 

Design  for  Dining-room 136 

Design  for  Drawing-room 121 

Design  for  Guest  Chamber 140 

Dickens  in    His   Study   at   Gad's 

Hill 128 

Dining-room  Amenities 130 

Dining-room  Furniture 135 

Dining-room  Tables 135 

Do  Not  Hide  Books 126 

Elegance  Is  Cheap 153 

Everything  Capable  of  Decoration  113 

Fitness  Is  Beauty •  157 

French  Tapestries 118 

Hangings 117 

Hangings  and  Sash  Curtains 152 

Harmony  for  the  Eye 1 13 

Harmony  the  Soul  of  Decoration  1 14 
How  to  Furnish  the  Bed-room. ...  144 
Importance  of  a  Mellow  Light .. .    151 

Lamps  of  Various  Shapes 156 

Location  of  Dining-room 132 

Low  Wooden  Screens 165 

Make   the   Bed-room  Bright  and 

Cheerful 144 

Make  the  Gentleman's  Den  Pleas- 
ant   141 

Many  uses  of  the  Bed-room 144 

Modern  Taste  a  Combination. . . .  168 


PAGE. 

Mrs.  Cleveland's  Home 121 

No  Dining-room,  no  Home 131 

No    Home    Complete    without  a 

Library 125 

Oriental  Rugs. , 117 

Ornamental  Pedestals  for  Lamps  159 
Penelope's  Unfinished  Web ..... .  112 

Portieres  and  Tapestries 158 

Pretty  Devices  for  the  Home 156 

Reception  Halls  should  be  Cozy. .   117 
Roomy  Closets  Indispensable. ...  163 

Russian  Rugs 161 

Shades  for  Windows 151 

Should  the  Bed-room  and  the  Living 
Room  be  thrown  Into  One  ? . .    143 

Sideboards 164 

Suggestions  Concerning  the  Dining- 
room  132 

Taste     Gravitating    Toward    the 

Antique 167 

The  Bagdad  Rug 164 

The  Bed-room 142 

The  Dining-room 130 

The  Drawing-room 118 

The  Drawing-room  the  Throne  of 

the  Home 118 

The  Gentleman's  Den 140 

The  Guest  Chamber 138 

The  Home  Educates  the  Nation. .    115 

The  House  Beautiful 116 

The  Library 125 

The    Library    the    Sanctuary   of 

Home 127 

The  Open  Fire-place 137 

1'he  Pink  Room 154 

The  Reception  Hall 116 

The  Window-desk  Idea 129 

Tinsel  Madras 165 

Turcoman  Portieres 165 

Welcome  the  Coming  Guest 139 

Window  Dressing 146 

Windsor  Combination  Wash  Stand  147 

Wilton  Carpets 117 

Woman's  Kingdom 115 


INDEX. 


387 


HEALTH    OF    WOMEN  AND    CHILDREN 


PAGE. 

Absent  Menstruation 192 

Accidents  of  Labor 288 

Attentions  After  Labor 278 

A   Child's   Physical    and   Mental 

Development 314 

A  Woman  Should  Know  Herself.   187 

Babyhood 294 

Baby  Hygiene 3°4 

Can  Unhappy  Marriages  Be  Pre- 
vented  210 

Cancer 360 

Care  of  the  New-born  Babe 295 

Celibacy 218 

Change  of  Life 201 

Childhood 316 

Chlorosis,  or  Green  Sickness 195 

Cholera  Infantum 332 

Chorea,  or  St.  Vitus'  Dance 341 

Conception  and  Pregnancy 224 

Complicated  Labor 275 

Congenital    Deformities 330 

Congestion  of  the  Womb 193 

Convulsions 335 

Courtship 206 

Courting  Days  Important  Days. .  208 

Croup '.  ...  336 

Dawn  of  a  New  Era  on  Female 

Education 186 

Diseases  of  Babyhood  and  Child- 
hood   325 

Diseases  of  Women 350 

Disorders  of  Infancy 326 

Disorders  of  Pregnancy 240 

Diseases  of  the  Ovaries 359 

Diseases  Following  Labor 281 

Difficult  Labor 274 

Displacements  of  the  Womb 357 

Diphtheria 337 

Dr.  Van  de  Walker  on  Structural 

Development    179 

Dysmenorrhcea,  or  Painful  Men- 
struation    197 

Dress 366 

Ear-ache  and  Discharges  from  the 

Ear 343 

Early  Marriages 215 

Early  Womanhood    the   Crisis  of 

Being 182 

Education  of  Children 317 

Eruptive  Fevers 339 

Every   Woman  Should  Have  an 
Aim  in  Life 205 


Evolution  of  the  Child 234 

Formative  Years  of  Woman's  Life  182 

Foetal  Development 229 

General  Hygiene 363 

Head  Lice 34^ 

Higher  Education  of  Women.  ...   184 

High-heeled  Boots 183 

Hydrocephalus 335 

Hygiene  of  Childhood • " "  •   318 

Hygiene  of  the  Digestive  Organs   370 

Hygiene  of  the  Ear 374 

Hygiene  of  the  Eye 373 

Hygiene  of  the  Generative  Organs.  375 

Hygiene  of  Pregnancy 238 

Hygiene   of  the   Respiratory  Or- 
gans   372 

Hygiene  of  the  Skin 369 

Hysteria 361 

Infant  Feeding 297 

Infantile  Leucorrhcea 344 

Inflammation   and   Ulceration   of 

the  Womb 356 

Law  of  Conjugal  Selection 213 

Leucorrhoea 356 

Maidenhood 177 

Maidenhood  a  Time  of  Solicitude.   178 

Marriage 208 

Maternal   Changes    During  Preg- 
nancy   236 

Medical  Glossary 377 

Menorrhagia,  or  Profuse  Menstru- 
ation   200 

Menstruation 188 

Miscarriage  and  Hemorrhage 289 

Motherhood 221 

Natural   Labor  and  Its  Manage- 
ment   266 

Ovulation 189 

Painless  Childbirth 259 

Phimosis  and  Paraphimosis 344 

Premature  Labor 290 

Pre-Natal  impressions  and  Moth- 
ers' Marks 291 

Preternatural  Labor   275 

Proper  Ages  for  Marriage 215 

Question   of   Temperament    Dis- 
cussed  211 

Rest  and  Sleep 368 

I  Scabies,  or  Itch 346 

\  Scaldhead 345 

Signs  of  Pregnancy 226 

I  Sterility 218 


*>n 


388 


INDEX, 


^    0 


PAGE. 

Sterility  May  Be  Overcome 220 

Still-Birth 291 

Sore  Eyes 342 

Teething 311 

The  Capacity  of  Women  for  Study.  185 
The  Crowning  Glory  of  Woman- 
hood  221 

The  External  Organs 170 

The  Internal  Organs 173 

The  Verdict  of  Colleges 185 


PAGE. 

The  Period  of  Structural  Devel- 
opment    179 

Tight  Lacing 183 

Tumors  of  the  Womb 358 

Various  Forms  of  Labor. . . 268 

Weak  Spines  and  Spinal  Deformi- 
ties    348 

Woman's  Physical  Structure 169 

Womanhood  and  Wifehood 204 

Worms ,....  347 


H   93      83  <4 


-r*  ••  «.* 


h* 


-    *fe  >♦    : 


SP** 


«>..     • .  .  «  "     .0 


*.   *+<?'   :. 


<p°* 


»>..  •*>. 


*°*<K    V 


,5°^     .i 


A' 


•T?»F  rf>      v^'V      V'-^V      %Wfl 


<?\  '. 


^  :M 


°t't  ■** 


<>  *Trr«  -.& 


V     4? 


>,*  .«?   * 


•w 


■»      o 


roV 


vO 


.<?     >» 


%^ 


rb  ^    r 


>•••  *o.       aT  o»:%  ** 


<£»  **»..*  A 


•  *o°        JO 


%>     *•-•      <* 


V     **<i*&k°»     **t£s£kS,     ***££k°* 


*0^ 


V  *^V 


8? 


v- 


r     ^   %'v^v^*    **    ^     *-\JE^/  ^     ^   *.VVV    ^v    ^    #-N 


»      o 


•     '*o« 


,     °o 


