%'mmiim 


I  mmu  OF  CONGRESS,  li 


|LI\1TE!)  STATES  OF  AMERICA. | 


y        FAMILY    DIRECTORY: 


OR, 


FORTY  YEARS'  EXPERIENCE 

OF  A 


PRACTICAL  HOUSEKEEPER; 


WITH 


MANY   VALUABLE   HINTS 


ON 


HEALTH,  FARMING,  GARDENIN(},  FRUITS  AND  FLOWERS, 


jiuj 


SELECTED  FROM  THE  BEST   AUTHORS, 


BY 


Mes.    AIS^    0.    OOX. 


-'' Vv^smnfi^^^ 


-       COLUMBUS,  O. 
FEINTED  FOR  THE  AUTHOR. 
1867. 


^t'^^ 

^\<\ 


c 


• 


Entered  according  to  act  of  Congress  in  the  year  1867, 

By  Mrs.  ANN  C.  COX, 

In  the  Clerk's  Office  of  the  District  Court  of  the  United  States  for 
the  Southern  District  of  Ohio. 


KEVINS  &  MYEES,  PRINTEES,  COLUMBUS,  O. 


TO    THE 

YOUNG  LADIES  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

THIS    WORK    IS    RESPECTFULLY    DEDICATED, 
WITH  THE  SINCERE  WISH  THAT  ITS  CONTENTS  MAT  ENABLE    THEM 

"  To  guide  the  House  witli  prudent  care, 
"With  judgment  wise  to  spend,  and  spare ; 
And  make  their  husbands  bless  the  day, 
They  gave  their  liberty  away." 


ISTTRODUOTIOlf. 


Having  from  my  youth  a  disposition  to  experiment  and 
test  whatever  seemed  desirable  and  plausible  in  house- 
keeping, I  accumulated  a  large  number  of  receipts,  which, 
after  testing,  I  preserved  for  future  reference. 

The  health  and  comfort  of  a  family  depend  greatly  on 
well-cooked  and  properly  seasoned  food,  and  regularity 
in  eating,  and  are  often  destroyed  for  the  want  of  it. 

There  are  already  many  books  on  the  subject  of  cookery 
and  house-keeping,  yet  few,  if  any  of  them,  have  been 
prepared  and  published  from  the  experience  of  practical 
house-keepers;  and  many  of  them  contain  so  many  things 
not  within  the  reach  of  persons  in  moderate  circumstances, 
that  they  are  laid  aside  as  useless. 

Another  objection  to  most  cook  books  is  the  vast  num- 
her  of  receipts  given  in  one  department:  for  instance, 
cakes  and  puddings,  (some  having  over  fifty)  that  it  per- 
plexes young  house-keepers,  and  they  do  not  know  which 
to  choose.  This  I  have  avoided,  giving  only  a  few  rich 
and  a  few  plain,  varying  the  material  of  which  they  are 
made  as  much  as  possible. 

This  DiKECTORY  contains  the  best  known  receipts  for 
curing  hams,  beef  and  tongues,  articles  often  rendered 
unwholesome  and  unpalatable  for  the  want  of  this  knowl- 
edge. It  also  contains  reliable  receipts  for  making  grape, 
currant,  blackberry  and  elderberry  wines,  the  latter  being 
'  considered  one  of  the  most  desirable  medicinal  stimulants. 


VI  INTRODUCTORY. 

It  also  contains  a  number  of  cheap  receipts  for  coloring, 
whereby  a  handy  house-keeper  can  color  faded  worsted 
curtains,  curtain  linings,  lawns  and  ribbons,  and  make 
them  look  new. 

This  DmECTORY  will  be  found  of  great  service  to  ama- 
teur farmers  and  gardeners,  and  persons  improving  subur- 
ban residences,  showing  them  how  and  when  to  plant 
fruit  trees,  shrubbery  and  flowers ;  how  much  can  be 
planted  on  an  acre,  what  kind  of  soil  is  adapted  to  the 
various  kinds  of  fruit,  the  proper  location  for  an  orchard 
and  vineyard,  and  how  to  prepare  the  ground  for  plant- 
ing ;  also,  how  and  when  to  bud  and  graft ;  how  old  trees 
can  be  made  fruitful,  and  how  large  trees  can  be  removed 
with  safety;  also,  directions  for  planting  gooseberries, 
currants,  strawberries,  raspberries  and  blackberries. 

The  directions  and  receipts  given  under  the  Medical 
head,  for  the  treatment  and  cure  of  many  diseases  com- 
mon in  this  country,  (particularly  of  children)  will  be 
found  of  great  value  to  persons  living  in  the  country  re- 
mote from  a  physician,  and  often  save  life  if  promptly 
attended  to.  It  will  also  direct  how-to  prevent,  and  how 
to  treat  cholera,  and  the  best  known  remedies  for  it; 
selected  carefully  from  the  experience  and  directions  of 
the  best  physicians  in  our  own  and  in  foreign  countries. 
Every  family  should  possess  these  directions  and  reme- 
dies, as  it  is  neglect  of  first  symptoms  that  makes  this 
disease  so  fatal. 

It  also  tells  you  how  to  treat  persons  drowned,  stunned 
by  lightning,  frozen,  cutting  an  artery,  bleeding  at  the 
nose  or  lungs,  burns,  swallowing  of  poison,  or  an  overdose 
of  laudanum ;  besides  many  other  things  too  numerous 
to  mention,  but  very  important  to  the  welfare  of  a  family. 

It  shows,  also,  every  citizen  or  farmer,  how  they  can 
have  a  house  or  barn  at  a  cost  of  from  three  to  six  hundred 


'  INTRODUCTORY.  Vli 

dollars,  (according  to  size).  It  is  a  stigma  upon  the 
American  character,  that  so  many  of  our  citizens  are 
without  a  homestead.  In  some  of  our  States  it  has  been 
necessary  to  possess  a  certain  amount  of  property  in  order 
to  have  the  privilege  of  the  elective  franchise,  and  were 
I  a  legislator,  I  would  favor  the  passage  of  such  a  law,  as 
a  stimulus  to  industry  and  economy.  There  are  but  few 
who,  with  these  qualities,  could  not  soon  have  a  dwelling 
of  their  own,  such  as  is  described  in  this  Directory.  Any 
mechanic  or  laboring  man  could  build  himself  a  home  for 
the  rent  he  pays  yearly.  And  an  acre  of  ground,  judi- 
ciously planted,  will  furnish  all  the  fruit,  vegetables  and 
berries  any  family  could  consume. 

I  do  not  presume,  in  this  brief  Directory,  to  teach  old 
and  experienced  house-keepers,  or  to  tell  all  I  know  my- 
self, or  all  I  deem  worthy  of  being  known,  about  house- 
keeping. My  object  is  to  give  to  the  uninitiated  a  simple 
foundation  to  build  on  in  the  outset  of  life,  leaving  them 
ample  scope  to  learn  and  experiment  for  themselves.  And 
I  trust  they  will  carefully  preserve  all  valuable  informa- 
tion gained;  and  then,  after  forty  years,  should  they 
meet  with  a  reverse  of  fortune,  by  publishing  their  expe- 
rience, they  may  benefit  the  young,  and  secure  for  them- 
selves a  competence. 

The  contents  of  this  Directory  will  not  be  arranged  in 
alphabetical  order,  but  for  convenience«and  saving  of  time, 
each  department  will  be  arranged  under  its  appropriate 
heading,  and  everything  pertaining  to  that  department 
given  in  its  proper  connection.  It  would  be  well  for  each 
member  of  the  family,  while  resting  or  waiting  for  their 
meals,  to  make  themselves  familiar  with  the  information 
given,  and  be  reaSy  to  act  promptly  in  case  of  accidents. 

It  will  be  readily  perceived,  that  the  receipts  given  in 
the  "Cooks'  Department"  are  intended  for  a  good  sized 


Vlll  INTRODUCTORY. 

family.    House-keepers  can  regulate  tlie  quantity  to  suit 
the  size  and  appetites  of  their  families. 

[Having  a  good  appetite  myself,  and  not  having  been 
educated  in  a  French  school^  I  have  no  receipts  for  prepar- 
ing dishes  from  "  pigeon's  wings."] 

I  may  have  erred  in  giving  receipts  that  are  too  econom- 
ical to  suit  the  taste  of  some,  but  it  is  easy  to  add  to  them, 
if  desired  richer,  without  injury. 

The  earnest  solicitation  of  many  inexperienced  house- 
keepers has  induced  me  to  publish  that  which  was  orig- 
inally intended  only  for  the  benefit  of  my  own  family ; 
and  I  feel  confident  that  if  the  instruction  given  is  judi- 
ciously carried  out,  this  Directory  will  be  regarded  as  a 
family  blessing,  and  save  many  a  family  jar, 

A.  C.  C. 


CONTENTS. 


Bread  and  Cakes —  page. 

Yeast,  to  make 1 

Bread 1 

Brown  bread 1 

Soda  biscuit 2 

Hard      " 2 

Sponge"        .' 2 

Cream  cakes 2 

Waffles,  or  griddle  cakes 3 

Buckwheat  cakes ^ 3 

Corn  cake 3 

Corn  griddle  cakes 3 

Dry  bread 3 

White,  or  Bride's  Cake 3 

White  Mountain  Cake 4 

Surprise  Cake 4 

Sponge       '*     4 

Fruit          "     4 

Cake  without  eggs 4 

Bachelor's  Loaf 4 

Doughnuts 5 

Cymbals 5 

Ginger-snaps 5 

Sponge  ginger-bread 5 

Icing  for  cakes 5 

Meringues 6 

Beautiful  ornament  for  summer  parties 6 

Good  pastry 7 

Paste  puffs 7 

Pees— 

Mince 7 

Pumpkin 7 

Lemon 7 

Tomato,  green 8 

Elderberry ^ 8 

Puddings — 

Rose-colored,  or  Sunday  pudding 8 

Delightful 9 

Custard 9 

Suet,  or  plum 9 

Corn-starch 9 

Prince  Albert,  or  Jbread 9 

Boiled  custard 9 

Apple  custard 10 

Sauces  for  Puddings — 

Nos.  J,2,3,4 10 


X  CONTENTS. 

Desserts  for  Tea  or  Dinner — 

Blanc  mange 10 

Rice  jelly 11 

Ice  cream 11 

Italian  cream Jl 

Custard,  frozen 11 

Meats — 

Boiled  fowls 12 

ham 12 

tongue 12 

salmon 12 

Corned  beef 12 

impromptu 12 

Beef  steak,  to  broil 13 

Pork  steak,  fry 13 

Veal  cutlet 13 

Salt  ham,  to  fry 13 

Hash 13 

Meat  cakes 13 

Chicken  salad 13 

Oysters — 

Fried,  scolloped,  stewed 14 

Chicken  Pie 15 

Soups— 

Bean 15 

Beef 15 

Chicken,  or  noodle 16 

Vegetables — to  cook — 

Corn 16 

Tomatoes 16 

Asparagus 16 

Salsify ..'.'.'...'.'.'...'.'....  17 

Corn  oysters 17 

Cold  slaw 17 

Hominy 17 

Eggs— 

To  fry 18 

To  poach 18 

Sausage— 

To  make 1° 

Lard- 
To  render 1° 

Coffee — 

Best  substitute 18 

Pickle— 

For  hams 1^ 

beef 19 

tongues • 1^ 

butter j^ 

cucumbers - - 1" 


CONTENTS.  XI 

Corn—  ' 

To  dry 19 

To  cook 20 

Lima  Beans — 

To  dry 20 

Canning  Fruits,  etc. — 

Peaches 20 

Fruit  canners'  receipt 20 

Spiced  peaches 20 

Quinces —  . 21 

Jellies — 

Apple 21 

Quince 21 

Currant 21 

Jams 22 

Citron  preserves « 22 

To  clarify  sugar  for  preserving -  22 

Apple  Butter 22 

Tomato  Butter 23 

Peach  Marmalade 23 

To  Seal  Large  Jars 23 

Catsups — 

Tomato 23 

Cucumber 23 

Tomato,  canned 24 

Pickles — 

Tomato 24 

Onion 24 

Damson 24 

Pepper 24 

Cabbage 25 

Cucumber 25 

Vinegar — 

Family 25 

Cider 25 

Summer  Drinks — 

Cherry  vinegar 25 

Raspberry  vinegar 26 

Ginger  beer 26 

Domestic  Wines — 

Elderberry 26 

Currant 26 

Blackberry 27 

Grape 27 

HOUSE-KEEPERS'  DEPARTMENT. 
Coloring — 

Yellow,  green,  scarlet,  pink 28 

Orange,  black,  chemic-blue 29 

Family  dyes 29 


Xll  CONTENTS. 

Miscellaneous — 

Paint,  to  clean 30 

Carpets,  to  clean 30 

Oil  paintings,  to  clean 30 

Oil  blinds,  to  clean 30 

To  preserve  eggs 30 

To  remove  panes  of  glass 30 

To  drive  nails  in  hardwood 30 

To  extract  paint  from  cloth 30 

To  examine  w  ells 30 

Black  calico 31 

To  wash  calico 31 

To  soften  hard  water 31 

To  make  soap 31 

Furniture  polish 31 

Ants 31 

Flower  Garden — 

Mildew  on  roses 32 

Plants  in  winter 32 

Tulips 32 

Pruning  trees 32 

Farmers'  and  gardeners'  table 33 

Gardening — 

To  plant  tomatoes 33 

peas 33 

melons 33 

extra  early  peas 34 

sweet  potatoes 34 

Irish         "         34 

sun-flowers 34 

A  Piece  of  Land — 

An  acre  of  ground 34 

Insects  on  vegetables 34 

Coal  tar 34 

To  dry  fruit 35 

Cider,  to  keep  sweet 35 

How  TO  Plant  Fruit  Trees— 

Apple,  pear,  cherry 36 

Peach,  plum,  quince,  grapes 37 

Gooseberries  and  currants 37 

Raspberries 38 

Strawberries 33 

Blackberries 39 

Grafting  and  Budding — 

Grafting  wax 39 

Old  fruit  trees 39 

Curculio 40 

Peach  borer 40 

Mulching 40 

Worth  knowing 40 

Farming — 

Grass  and  grain 41 

Clover  as  manure 41 


CONTENTS.  Xii/ 

Farming —  Continued. 

Manuring  wheat - 41 

Kelative  value  of  pork  and  corn 41 

Cooked  food  for  cows 42 

Root  crops 42 

Butter 42 

Hay  for  cows  in  summer 42 

Fattening  fowls 42 

Poultry  for  market 43 

Fattening  cattle  on  hay 43 

Time  to  cut  timber 43 

Scratching  up  corn 43 

To  measure  corn  in  crib 43 

Buckwheat,  to  raise 43 

What  makes  a  bushel 44 

Diseases  of  Animals — 

Trembles  in  cattle 44 

Horses,  fatigued 44 

Hog  cholera 44 

Bots  in  horses 44 

Colic  in  horses 44 

Scratches  in  horses 44 

Heaves            "         45 

Houses  and  Barns — 

Whitewash  for  out-buildings 45 

MEDICAL  DEPARTMENT. 

Cholera — 

How  to  prevent 46 

How  to  treat 47 

Remedies 51-52 

Accidents — 

Drowned  persons 52 

Swimming 53 

Frozen  or  stupified  with  cold 53 

Stunned  by  lightning 53 

Persons  on  fire 53 

Burns  or  scalds 54 

Cutting  an  artery 54 

Antidotes  for  poison 54 

Hydrophobia  and  snake  bites 54 

Sprains ,- 54 

Ear  ache,  cancer,  erysipelas,  tetter,  coughs 55 

Rheumatism,  etc. — 

Cough  Syrup  No.  1 --. 55 

"      No.2 55 

Bronchitis 56 

Asthma - 56 

Bleeding  at  the  lungs - 56 

Bleeding  at  the  nose 56 

Scrofula - - - 56 

Consumption 56 

Inflammations 56 


xiv  CONTENTS. 

Medical  Miscellany. 

Croup - 57 

Diptheria - 57 

Scarlet  fever 57 

Measles 57 

Whooping  cough 58 

Sciatica,  or  gout  of  tlie  hip 58 

Inflammatory  rheumatism 58 

Liniment  for  rheumatism  and  neuralgia 58 

Toe-nails 59 

Cramp 59 

Ringworm 59 

Constipation  of  bowels 59  • 

Nervous  chills - 59 

Dispepsia 59  - 

Coal  oil  for  sores 59 

Dysentery,  or  flux 59-60 

Felons 60 

Small-pox 60 

Tape-worm '. 61 

Warts  and  corns 61 

Freckles 61 

Night-mare 61 

Frosted  feet 61 

Pile  salve 61 

Gy mpson  salve 61 

Elder  blossom  salve 62 

Sore  or  weak  eyes 62 

Miasma : 62 

Debility 62 

Bathing 62, 

Fresh  air 62' 

Children 62 

Biting  the  nails 63 

Teeth 63 

To  whiten  teeth 63 

Inflammation  of  throat  and  lungs 63 

Night  sweats 63 

Hiccups - - 63 

Food  for  the  Sick — 

Beef  tea - 64 

Panada 64 

Barley  water 64 

Apple  water 64 

Isinglass  jelly , 64 

Toast • 64 

Baked  rice 64 

Pickled  pork - -.  65 

Farina 65 

Diet 65 


CONTENTS.  XV 

ADDENDA. 

Marbled  cake 66 

Jelly  cake 66 

Coffee  cake .•..  66 

Floating  island 67 

To  preserve  strawberries 67 

Wheat  flour  blanc  mange 67 

Philadelphia  ice  cream 67 

Lemon  sherbert 67 

French  rolls 68 

Sour  dough 68 

Boiled  Indian  pudding 68 

Loaf  pudding .>-.. 68 

Pudding  bag 68 

Bursted  apple 69 

Apples  whole 69 

Apple  meringue 69 

Apple  pudding,  in  crust 69 

To  stew  pears 69 

Cranberry  sauce 70 

Baked  custard 70 

Cinnamon  rolls 70 

Cobblers 70 

Boiled  rice 70 

Arrowroot  for  children 70 

Blackberry  syrup 71 

Omelet 71 

Codfish  balls 71 

Sandwiches 71 

To  fry  fresh  fish 72 

•       boiledfish 72 

bakefish 72 

saltfish 72 

smoked  halibut 72 

To  stew  chicken 72 

fry  chicken •. 73 

cook  liver  73 

stew  a  beef  heart *. 73 

Oyster  sauce -.  73 

To  make  and  fry  mush 73 

Potatoes — To  fry,  mash,  boil  or  bake 74 

Drawn  butter. .' 74 

Parsley 74 

Celery  sauce ~ 74 

Stuffing  or  dressing 74 

Piccalilla,  or  mixed  pickle 75 

Pepper  sauce 75 

Universal  pickle - - 75 

Pickle  tomatoes 76 

Keep  apples  or  pears 76 

Sweet  potatoes .-. 76 

Straw  matting - 77 

Silver  and  plated  ware  ..*. 77 

Fainting 77 

Croup 77 


XVI  CONTENTS. 

Bug  poison - 77 

Remove  marks  from  a  table 77 

Ink  stains 78 

Keep  hams  in  summer 78 

Renovate  black  silk 78 

velvet 78 

Cement  for  tops  of  bottles  or  jars 78 

Economical  paint - 78 

Painting  a  room - 79 

Hair  renewer 79 

Beds  and  bedding 79 

Directions  about  coloring 79 

To  prepare  cotton  goods  for  coloring 80 

How  to  have  good  servants 80 


COOK'S    DEPARTMENT. 


BREAD,  CAKES,  Etc. 

To  Make  Yeast. — Tie  a  pint  of  hops  in  a  thin  cloth, 
put  it  in  a  gallon  of  water,  with  a  quart  of  pared  pota- 
toes, and  boil  one  hour  j  strain  it  on  a  quart  of  flour, 
squeezing  the  hops  well  j  then  add  and  mash  the  potatoes, 
adding  one  cup  each,  of  sugar  and  salt,  and  two  table- 
, spoons  of  gingery  when  milk- warm,  add  one  cup  of  good 
yeast — let  it  rise — stir  it  down  several  times,  then  cork  it 
up  tight,  put  it  in  a  cool  place,  and  you  will  have  good 
yeast  for  a  month.  The  same  kind  of  yeast  is  best  to 
raise  a  new  lot. 

To  MAKE  THE  BEST  BREAD. — For  six  loavcs  of  bread, 
scald  two  quarts  of  flour,  (beating  out  all  lumps,)  when 
milk- warm  add  one  cup  of  yeast,  (from  above  receipt) 
and  let  it  rise  5  make  into  thin  mush,  two  quarts  of  corn 
meal  ("white  is  best,)  boil  it  well  and  have  no  lumps; 
when  the  yeast  has  risen,  add  the  mush,  (also  milk-warm) 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough ;  work  well  and  bake 
well,  and  you  will  have  the  best  of  bread.  Boiled  mashed 
potatoes  may  be  substituted  for  the  mush,  and  the  bread 
is  as  good.  Add  a  little  shortening  to  a  piece  of  this 
dough,  let  it  rise,  and  you  have  excellent  light  rolls.  • 

Brown  Bread. — ^For  four  loaves  of  bread,  scald  one 
quart  of  white  flour,  when  nearly  cold,  add  "one  cup  of 

2 


2  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

yeast,  when  raised,  add  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  a  half 
pint  of  molasses,  adding  brown  flour  and  warm  water 
sufficient  to  make  the  quantity  you  want  into  a  stiff  bat- 
ter, well  beaten  with  a  spoon ;  when  light,  pour  into  but- 
tered pans  and  bake  well. 

Soda  Biscuit. — To  three  pints  of  flour,  take  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  pulverize  and 
stir  well  through  the  flour,  then  take  a  piece  of  butter  or 
lard,  size  of  an  egg,  and  rub  it  well  through  the  flour  5 
wet  with  sweet  milk  until  soft  as  can  be  rolled  out ;  bake 
quick.  They  can  be  made  with  half  milk  and  half  water, 
or  wholly  of  water. 

Hard  Biscuit. — Take  four  pounds  of  flour  and  rub 
three  and  a  half  pounds  of  it  with  four  ounces  of  butter 
and  two  teaspoons  of  salt ;  moisten  it  with  milk,  pound 
it  out  thin  with  a  rolling-pin,  sprinkle  a  little  of  the  re- 
served flour  over  it  lightly,  roll  it  up  and  pound  it  out 
again,  sprinkle  on  more  of  the  flour  5  repeat  this  opera- 
tion till  you  get  in  all  the  reserved  flour ;  then  roll  it  out 
thin,  cut  into  cakes  with  a  tumbler,  lay  them  on  flat,  but- 
tered tins  5  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sponge  Biscuit. — Stir  into  a  pint  of  luke-warm  milk 
half  a  tea  cup  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half 
a  tea  cup  of  family,  or  a  tablespoonful  of  brewer's  yeast, 
(the  latter  is  the  best ;)  add  flour  till  it  is  a  very  stiff  bat- 
ter. When  light,  drop  this  mixture  by  the  large  spoon- 
ful on  to  flat,  buttered  tins,  several  inches  apart.  Let 
them  remain  a  few  minutes  before  baking.  Bake  them 
in  a  quick  oven  till  they  are  a  light  brown. 

Cream  Cakes. — ^Mix  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream  with 
the  same  quantity  of  milk,  four  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  flour  to  render  them  just  stiff  enough  to  drop  on  but- 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  3 

tered  tins.    They  should  be  dropped  by  the  large  spoon- 
ftd,  several  inches  apart,  and  baked  in  a  quick  oven. 

Wapfles  or  Griddle  Cakes. — One  quart  flour,  one 
quart  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  melt- 
ed butter,  one  teafepoon  soda,  and  four  eggs  well  beaten. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. — Mix  to  a  stiff  paste,  or  batter, 
with  warm  water  or  milk,  adding  a  desert  spoon  of  salt 
and  a  cup  of  fresh  yeast :  beat  thoroughly  and  set  in  warm 
place  to  rise.  They  can  be  made  without  yeast,  by  add- 
ing two  teaspoons  of  cream  tartar  or  half  a  cup  of  vine- 
gar and  one  teaspoon  soda,  and  baked  immediately. 

Corn  Cakes. — One  quart  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  sali, 
one  tablespoon  lard,  one  large  teaspoon  soda,  one  egg  5 
beat  well  and  bake  in  shallow  pans. 

Corn  Griddle  Cakes. — ^Pour  one  pint  of  boiling 
water  on  one  quart  of  meal,  stir  well  5  when  nearly  cold, 
add  four  well  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  one 
of  soda ;  one  large  spoon  of  flour  and  one  of  melted  lard, 
add  milk  enough  to  make  into  batter ;  bake  on  a  hot  grid- 
dle. 

Dry  Bread. — Soak  stale  or  sour  bread  in  cold  water, 
if  sour,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  soda  5  when  soft,  pare  off 
the  dark  crust,  squeeze  dry  and  mash  fine  with  your 
hands ;  then  take  a  pint  of  fresh  yeast,  and  flour  enough 
to  work  into  dough  5  work  well  and  let  it  rise  j  bake  well 
and  you  have  a  good  brown  bread.  Bread  prepared  in 
this  way  is  nice  for  bre^d  puddings,  or  griddle  cakes. 

White,  or  Brides'  Cake. — Four  cups  white  sugar, 
one  teaspoonfiil  soda,  four  cups  flour,  four  teaspoonsful 
cream  tartar,  two  cups  butter,  whites  of  thirteen  eggs, 
one  cup  sweet  milk.    Flavor  with  lemon. 


4  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

White  Mountain  Cake. — Two  and  a  half  cups  flour, 
one  cup  white  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  and  half  tea- 
spoon soda  5  beat  well  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  (Best 
cake  for  material  used.) 

Surprise  Cake  — One  eggj  one  cup  sugar,  half  cup 
butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  tea- 
spoons cream  tartar.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  use  sufficient 
sifted  flour  to  make  the  proper  consistence,  and  you  will 
really  be  surprised  to  see  its  bulk  and  beauty. 

Sponge  Cake. — Beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs  with  one 
pound  of  white  sugar  5  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  stir  them  into  the  yolks  and  sugar,  beat 
the  whole  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  stir  in  gradually 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sifted  flour,  with  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon — bake. 

Fruit  Cake. — One  coffee  cup  butter,  one  of  milk, 
three  of  sugar,  five  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  currants  and 
raisins,  mixed,  half  pound  citron,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
soda  and  one  of  salt  5  add  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and 
nutmegs  to  suit  taste.     Let  all  be  well  beaten. 

Cake  without  Eggs. — One'  cup  sugar,  one  of  butter, 
one  of  milk,  two  ounces  currants,  (or  not)  one  teaspoon 
dry  cream  tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  milk, 
nutmeg  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter,  stiff  as  pound 
cake. 

Bachelors'  Loaf. — One  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  but- 
ter, two  cups  sugar,  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter,  one  cup  yeast,  well  stirred  in,  put 
at  once  in  a  buttered  pan,  let  it  rise  three  hours,  bake  as 
bread,  serve  hot,  eat  with  butter. 


FAMILY     DIRECTOEY.  5 

Doughnuts. — One  cup  sour  cream  or  milk,  two  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  one  nutmeg,  two  tea- 
spoons soda,  flour  enough  to  roll,  cut  into  any  shape  you 
please,  and  boil  in  hot  lard.  i 

Cymbals. — Take  one-half  pound  sugar,  one-fourth 
pound  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  half  cup  milk,  stir  the  butter  and  sugar  together, 
then  add  the  eggs  and  a  little  flour,  stir  in  the  milk  and 
soda,  add  sufficient  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll 
out ;  roll  it  out  (in  pounded  white  sugar)  one-half  an  inch 
thick  J  cut  with  a  tumbler  into  cakes,  and  bake  them  in 
flat  buttered  tins. 

Ginger  Snaps. — One  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  each  of 
sugar,  butter  and  warm  water,  (the  butter  melted  with 
the  water,)  one  small  teaspoon  soda,  (dissolved  in  water), 
two  tablespoons  ginger.  The  dough  should  be  stiff;  knead 
it  well,  and  roll  into  sheets ;  cut  into  round  cakes,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Sponge  Ginger  Bread." — One  cup  sour  milk,  one  of 
molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  and  a  half 
teaspoons  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  it  stiff  as  pound  cake ;  put  the  butter,  molasses 
and  ginger  together,  and  make  them  quite  warm;  then 
add  the  milk,  flour  and  soda,  and  bake  immediately- 

IciNG  FOR  Cakes. — Take  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beat 
to  a  perfect  froth,  and  stiff,  one  pound  of  pulverized  white 
sugar,  one-half  tablespoon  starch,  and  juice  of  half  a 
lemon ;  sift  the  sugar  and  starch  into  the  beaten  egg,  and 
stir  well  and  long ;  when  the  cake  is  cold  lay  on  a  coat  of 
the  frostiog;  it  is  best  not  to  take  much  pains  in  putting 
on  the  first  coat,  as  little  bits  of  the  cake  mix  up  with  it, 
and  give  it  a  yellow  appearance;  but  on  the  next  day 


6  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

make  more  frosting,  tlie  same  as  the  first,  and  apply  a 
second  coat,  and  it  will  be  white,  clear  and  beautiful ;  by 
dipping  the  knife  into  cold  water  as  applying,  you  can 
smooth  the  frosting  very  nicely.  . 

Meringues. — Take  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  and  one 
pound  of  sifted  pounded  white  sugar  j  procure  a  board 
about  an  inch  in  thickness,  the  size  of  your  stove  oven ; 
cover  this  with  foolscap  or  thin  cartridge  paper  j  beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  j  stir  the  sugar  in  lightly 
with  a  spoon ;  do  not  stir  it  too  much,  as  it  would  lose  its 
firmness  j  with  a  dessert  spoon  drop  the  mixture  on  the 
papered  board,  in  masses  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
half  an  inch  apart  j  in  dropping  them  turn  the  spoon  over 
as  they  fall,  so  as  to  produce  as  round  an  appearance  as 
possible  j  then  dust  them  over  with  sifted  sugar,  and  blow 
off  the  loose  sugar  from  the  paper  j  put  them  in  a  moder- 
ately heated  oven,  and  bake  a  very  light  brown ;  when 
done  each  piece  must  be  carefully  removed  from  the  paper, 
the  inside  scraped  out  with  a  dessert  spoon,  leaving  the 
shell  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick ;  place  them  in  order 
on  a  papered  baking  tin,  the  hollow  side  upwards,  and 
put  again  in  the  oven,  taking  care  they  do  not  acquire  any 
more  color ;  they  should  be  dried  so  as  to  be  quite  crisp ; 
they  may  be  put  in  the  oven  at  night,  when  the  fire  is 
out  and  the  heat  subsided,  and  remain  until  morning, 
when  they  may  be  packed  in  a  tin  box  and  used  when 
required. 

Beautiful  Ornament  for  Summer  Parties. — Take 
a  square  block  of  clear  ice,  as  large  as  you  have  a  dish  to 
hold  it,  then  place  four  glass  salts  in  the  dish,  lay  the 
ice  upon  these  salts,  fill  the  sides  of  the  dish  with  ever- 
greens and  flowers,  wrap  a  wire  or  piece  of  cane  with 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  7 

flowers  and  evergreens,  make  an  arch  over  the  dish  each 
way ;  this  is  beautiful,  and  cooling  to  the  air. 

Good  Pastry. — Take  one-half  a  pound  of  butter  and 
one-half  a  pound  of  nice  lard,  rub  them  into  two  pounds 
of  flour,  and  mix  with  cold  water  to  a  stiff  dough.  Pie 
crust  can  be  made  cheaper  and  more  wholesome  by  using 
the  receipt  for  soda  biscuit. 

To  prevent  juicy  fruit  from  soaking  into  the  under  crust 
spread  over  it  a  coating  of  beaten  egg. 

Paste  Puffs. — Eoll  out  a  rich  paste,  and  cut  them 
with  a  biscuit  cutter ;  lay  them  on  a  tin  sheet ;  cut  a  rich 
puff  paste  the  same  size ;  cut  a  hole  with  a  small  wine 
glass,  making  a  rim  half  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  them 
until  quite  done.  When  sending  them  to  the  table  fill 
them  with  preserves  of  any  kind. 


PIES. 

Mince. — A  shank,  or  any  part  of  the  beef,  well  boiled, 
and  gristle  removed,  will  make  good  pies.  To  every  pound 
of  chopped  beef  add  one-fourth  pound  suet,  one-fourth 
peck  apples,  one-half  pound  raisins,  one- fourth  pound  cur- 
rants, one  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  and 
two  pounds  of  sugar ;  add  sweet  cider  to  moisten ;  vinegar 
and  water  sweetened  will  answer;  bake  with  good  pastry. 

Pumpkin. — Take  two  quarts  of  fine  cooked  pumpkin, 
(winter  squash  or  long-necked  cushaw  are  best,)  add  one 
quart  milk,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  ginger  and 
one  of  ground  cinnamon  or  allspice,  add  eight  well  beaten 
eggs,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  bake  with  bottom  crust  till 
well  done. 

Lemon. — Three  lemons,  three  cups  sugar,  six  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  and  whites  added 


8  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

last,  a  small  lump  of  butter,  and  about  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  corn-starch  thickening ;  bake  with  bottom  crust, 
(enough  for  three  pies.) 

Tomato. — Pour  boiling  water  on  green  tomatoes  until 
you  can  just  strip  off  the  skin,  then  cut  in  slices  and  put 
in  deep  pie-plates,  sprinkle  sugar  over  each  layer  and  a 
little  ginger,  or  grated  lemon  peel  and  the  juice  of  lemon 
improves  it ;  cover  with  crust,  and  bake  slowly  for  about 
one  hour. 

Elderberry. — ^When  fruit  is  scarce  these  make  a  nice 
pie,  flavored  with  a  few  slices  of  lemon  or  a  few  spoonsful 
of  vinegar  and  nutmeg.  They  can  be  canned  and  kept  as 
other  fruit  through  the  winter. 

I  have  given  only  a  few  of  such  pies  as  are  not  in  general 
use,  deeming  the  making  of  fruit  pies  so  simple  as  not  to 
require  any  receipt  for  their  making.  All  that  is  neces- 
sary is  to  have  good  pastry,  good  fruit,  and  well  sweetened 
and  well  baked. 


PUDDINGS. 

EosE  Colored  or  Sunday  Pudding. — Take  a  large 
cup  of  sago,  pour  over  it  three  pints  of  warm  water,  let  it 
stand  three  hours  in  a  warm  place ;  then  take  a  dozen 
sweet  or  good  cooking  apples,  pare  and  core  them,  put  in 
an  earthen  dish  large  enough  for  your  pudding,  add  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  a  few  sticks  of  cinnamon  or 
bits  of  lemon  peel,  and  sugar  enough  to  make  a  thin  syrup. 
Boil  llie  apples  till  tender  and  transparent,  keeping  them 
whole  as  possible.  When  done  set  away  to  cool ;  when 
cold  pour  the  sago  over  them,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour.  Set  away  to  cool.  Eat  cold  with 
sweetened  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  This 
pudding  should  be  made  the  day  before  using. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  9 

Delightful  PuDDnsra. — Take  one  quart  of  boiling 
milk,  quarter  pound  each  of  flour  and  maslied  potatoes, 
and  a  small  lump  of  butter,  and  wlien  cold  add  three  eggs 
well  beaten ;  bake  half  an  hour ;  eat  with  sauce  No.  3. 

Custard  Pudding. — Stir  a  quart  of  milk  gradually 
into  half  a  pint  of  flour,  mix  free  from  lumps,  add  the 
yolks  of  seven  eggs,  well  beaten,  separately,  with  three 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  grated  nut- 
meg, add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  just 
before  putting  in  the  oven ;  bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour 3 
eat  with  cream  flavored  with  lemon,  or  No.  2. 

Suet  or  Plum  Pudding. — Take  one  cup  each  of 
molasses,  milk,  and  suet  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
dissolved  in  milk,  three  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one 
cup  chopped  raisins,  and  one  cup  currants,  one  half  tea- 
spoon salt.  Put  in  a  tin  bucket  with  tight  cover ;  set  it 
in  a  kettle  of  water,  and  boil  hard  five  hours.  It  makes 
a  good  pudding  without  any  fruit. 

Corn  Starch  Pudding. — Take  four  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  one  quart  sweet  milk,  and  three  eggs,  mix  the  corn 
starch  in  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter  5  boil  the  milk, 
and  when  scalding  hot  add  the  beaten  eggs;  when  it 
thickens  add  the  batter;  stir  till  done;  put  in  moulds. 
Eat  with  sweet  cream,  flavored  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Prince  Albert  or  Bread  Pudding. — Take  half  a 
pound  each  of  bread  crumbs,  sugar  and  butter,  six  eggs, 
beaten  separately,  add  a  pint  of  milk,  and  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  four  tablespoons  of  any  kind  of  pre- 
serves; boil  one  hour  in  a  tin  bucket  tightly  covered, 
immersed  in  boiling  water. 

Boiled  Custard. — Take  four  eggs  to  one  quart  of 
milk ;  let  the  milk  come  to  a  scald ;  then  stir  in  the  eggs, 


10  FAMILY     DIRECTOllY. 

well  beaten,  with  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  stirring  till  it  be- 
gins to  thicken  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  vanilla.  If  liked 
richer,  add  two  more  eggs.  This  poured  over  stale  cake 
or  crumbed  crackers  makes  a  nice  dessert. 

Apple  Custaed. — Custard  made  as  the  above,  with 
a  few  spoonsful  of  grated  or  stewed  apple  added,  and 
baked  with  under-crust,  is  very  nice. 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

Ko.  1. — Cream  Sauce. — Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
thicken  very  little,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter.  Sweeten 
to  taste,  and  when  cold  add  one  lemon  rind  and  juice, 
grated  or  sliced,  or  nutmeg. 

No.  2. — Stir  together  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of 
sugar,  yolk  of  ,one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  flour  j  slice  a 
lemon,  and  put  all  into  a  bowl  or  pitcher,  and  add  half  a 
pint  of  boiling  water. 

^0.  3. — Beat  equal  quantities  of  white  sugar  and  but- 
ter to  a  cream,  adding  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  beat 
all  well  together  j  put  it  in  a  cool  place  to  harden,  before 
using. 

]S^o.  4. — Take  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  vinegar, 
and  half  a  cup  of  butter  j  simmer  together  and  flavor 
with  nutmeg. 

DESSERTS  FOR  TEA  OR  DINNER. 

Blanc  Mange. — Take  one  tea-cup  of  Irish  moss,  care- 
fully picked  and  washed  j  add  to  it  half  a  gallon  of  sweet 
milk  5  let  it  simmer  one  hour  in^a  porcelain  vessel,  stir- 
ring often  while  boiling ;  add  a  stick  of  cinnamon  or  a 
little  lemon  or  orange-peel ;  strain  through  fine  sieve  or 
mosquito-bar  j  put  in  moulds  or  cups  to  cool  j  let  it  stand 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  11 

six  or  eight  hours  (better  if  made  evening  before  using) ; 
turn  out  of  the  moulds  into  a  large  dish  or  preserve 
glass.  Eat  with  sweetened  cream,  flavored  with  vanilla, 
lemon  or  nutmeg.  This  is  a  nice  dessert  for  dinner,  and 
bjptter  than  preserves  for  tea. 

EiCE  Jelly. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  flour 
with  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  quart  of  water  till 
the  Fhole  becomes  a  glutinous  mass;  pour  in  cups  to 
harden.  Eat  with  sweetened  cream,  flavored  with  van- 
illa. 

Ice  Cream. — To  one  gallon  of  cream  take  two  and  a 
half  pounds  of  white  sugar,  adding  a  tablespoon  of  van- 
illa, or  any  other  flavoring  extract.  About  five  pounds 
of  ice  mixed  with  two  pounds  of  coarse  salt  to  freeze 
this  quantity. 

Italian  Cream. — Take  three  pints  of  milk,  one  pack- 
age of  Coxe's  gelatine,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  six  table- 
spoons of  sugar  'j  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  milk,  and 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  stir  in  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugary 
remove  it  from  the  fire,  and  add  extract  of  vanilla  to 
flavor,  stirring  until  cool ;  pour  into  moulds  which  have 
been  dipped  in  cold  water. 

Custard,  frozen,  is  a  good  substitute  for  ice  cream. 


MEATS. 

To  Stuff  and  Eoast  Fowls,  Fish,  &c. — Take  fine 
bread-crumbs — the  quantity  required — melt  a  lump  of 
butter  in  a  little  water,  and  mix  well,  seasoning  well  with 
pepper,  salt  and  sage,  summer  savory,  or  finely  chopped 
onions.  Examine  your  fowls  to  see  that  nothing  im- 
proper is  left  inside ;  wash  weU  and  drain ;  fill  the  breast 
with  the  stuffing  and  sew  it  up ;  put  the  remainder  in  the 


12  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

body  of  the  fowl,  sew  up,  and  tie  down  legs  and  wings. 
If  tough,  boil  two  hours  in  a  small  quantity  of  water ;  then 
take  it  out,  put  in  a  pan,  roast  and  baste  well ;  taste  to 
see  that  it  is  properly  seasoned.  Stuffing  prepared  in 
this  way  will  answer  for  veal,  fish,  mutton,  &c. 

Boiled  Fowls. — Old  fowls  are  best  boiled,  after  being 
stuffed.  Great  care  should  be  used  in  cooking,  not  to 
put  in  too  much  water ;  add,  as  you  need,  from  a  boiling 
kettle.  Too  much  water  makes  fowls  and  meats  insipid. 
Slice  hard-boiled  eggs  in  the  gravy  and  spread  over  them 
when  taken  up. 

To  Boil  Ham. — A  ham  weighing  ten  pounds  should 
boil  five  hours  5  larger  ones  in  same  proportion.  If  very 
salt,  soak  from  fifteen  to  twenty  hours,  changing  water. 

To  Boil  Tonoue. — K  very  dry  and  salt,  soak  six  or 
eight  hours  before  boiling.  Boil  from  two  and  a  half 
to  four  hours. 

To  Boil  Salt  Salmon. — Let  it  soak  over  night  5  boil 
slowly  two  hours.    Eat  with  drawn  butter. 

Corned  Beef  Eolled. — Take  the  flank  part  of  a 
quarter  of  beef;  wash  it  clean ;  roll  it  up  close  and  tie  it 
with  wrapping-yarn  tight;  boil  till  quite  tender;  when 
cold,  remove  the  string  and  cut  thin,  like  tongue.  Bony 
pieces  or  ribs  boiled  till  the  bones  will  pull  out,  and  press- 
ed into  good  shape,  cut  thin  when  cold,  is  as  good  as 
tongue,  for  evening  parties,  and  much  cheaper. 

Impromptu  Corned  Beef. — To  two  gallons  of  water 
add  one  pint  of  salt,  and  boil  your  beef  in  it  till  tender, 
or  till  the  bones  will  pull  out ;  put  in  a  pan  and  press 
with  a  weight ;  when  cold,  slice  thin.  This  is  very  good, 
but  does  not  look  so  handsome  as  the  corned  beef. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  1^ 

To  Broil  Beef  Steak. — Have  a  clear  fire.  Have  a 
pan  by  your  side  containing  some  melted  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  into  which  dip  your  steak  occasionally,  sticking 
it  through  with  a  knife  j  turn  often.  Any  steak  or  chop, 
fowl  or  bird,  should  be  broiled  in  the  same  way. 

To  Fry  Pork  Steak.— Fry  in  lard,  seasoned  well 
with  salt,  pepper  and  powdered  sage.  This  is  the  best 
substitute  for  sausage. 

To  Cook  a  Yeal  Cutlet. — Beat  two  large  eggs  5 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter ;  salt  and  pepper  the 
meat  well  5  dip  both  sides  into  the  batter  5  lay  into  a  pan 
with  plenty  of  hot  butter  or  lard,  pouring  the  balance  of 
the  batter  over  it ;  let  it  cook  slowly  filteen  or  twenty 
minutes  5  when  well  browned,  turn  over  carefully,  and 
cook  till  thoroughly  done.  Then  add  a  cup  of  cream,  and 
simmer  a  few  minutes. 

To  Fry  Salt  Ham. — Parboil  ten  minutes,  then  fry  in 
fresh  lard. 

Hashes — Can  be  made  of  any  kind  of  cold  fresh  meats, 
chopped  fine,  with  a  few  slices  of  potatoes  and  onions  5 
stew  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  with  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  flour  dredged  over  to  thicken  the  gravy. 

Meat  Cakes. — Take  any  kind  of  fresh  cold  meat,  chop 
fine,  beat  two  eggs  in  half  a  cup  of  milk,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thick  batter  5  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  stir 
in  the  meat,  and  bake  on  the  griddle  as  you  would  griddle 
cakes. 

Chicken  Salad. — ^Boil  tender  a  pair  of  fowls,  skin  and 
remove  the  fat,  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  in  small 
pieces,  split  two  heads  of  clean  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces, 


14  FAMILY     DIRECTNRY. 

put  chickens  and  celery  together  in  a  deep  dish,  cover, 
and  set  away ;  just  before  it  is  to  be  eaten  mash  the  yolks 
of  eight  hard  boiled  eggs,  to  which  S;dd  a  small  teaspoon 
each  of  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  gill  of  mixed 
mustard,  and  half  teacup  of  good  vinegar,  and  a  small  cup 
of  melted  butter,  and  yolk  of  a  raw  egg,  well  beaten ;  mix 
these  ingredients  thoroughly,  stirring  till  quite  smooth ; 
pour  this  on  the  chickens  and  celery,  and  mix  well  with 
a  silver  fork  or  spoon. 

Fried  Oysters. — Put  the  oysters  into  a  stew-pan  with 
the  liquor,  let  them  stew  a  few  minutes,  then  put  them  in 
a  cullender  and  drain ;  beat  well  four  eggs,  and  dip  the 
oysters,  one  by  one,  into  the  egg,  and  then  into  rolled 
crackers  or  corn  meal ;  fry  in  equal  parts  of  butter  and 
lard  till  light  brown.  K  required  for  a  large  company 
fry  them  through  the  day ;  spread  on  a  large  dish  and 
heat  in  a  stove  when  served ;  can  be  fried  without  stewing* 

Scolloped  Oysters. — Pour  the  oysters  from  the  cans 
into  a  cullender  over  a  pan  to  catch  the  juice,  then  take 
the  dish  you  intend  to  cook  them  in  and  cover  the  bottom 
half  an  inch  thick  with  fine,  dry  bread  crumbs  or  rolled 
crackers  j  then  with  a  fork  spread  the  oysters  regularly 
over  this,  then  another  half  inch  of  crackers,  then  another 
layer  of  oysters,  and  so  on  till  you  have  used  all  your 
material,  finishing  with  crackers  on  top ,  add  to  the  oyster 
juice  half  a  cup  of  water,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  moisten 
well  the  crackers  with  this  liquor,  adding  two  or  three 
little  lumps  of  butter  to  each  layer,  spreading  all  the 
liquor  over  it ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour ;  serve 
in  dish  in  which  they  were  cooked,  hot. 

Stewed  Oysters. — ^To  a  whole  can  take  three  quarts 
boiling  water,  add  half  a  pound  of  butter,  a  dessert  spoon 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  15 

of  salt,  a  quarter  of  teaspoon  of  pepper,  two  tablespoons 
of  flour,  reduced  to  a  fine  paste  in  a  pint  of  cream ;  simmer 
five  minutes. 

Chicken  Pie. — Cut  in  small  pieces  two  chickens,  put 
them  to  stew  in  three  quarts  of  water,  and  add  half  a 
dozen  slices  of  fresh  pork  or  ribs,  (or  pickled  pork  par- 
boiled a  few  minutes;)  when  about  half  done  add  a  dozen 
pared  potatoes,  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  one  teaspoon  of 
pepper ;  when  the  potatoes  are  about  done  take  off  the 
fire.  In  the  meantime  have  ready  enough  good  crust  to 
cover  the  top  and  bottom  of  a  large,  deep  pan,  the  bottom 
crust  about  twice  as  thick  as  pie-crust,  with  a  cross-cut  in 
the  bottom ;  then  place  alternately  a  layer  of  chickens, 
pork  and  potatoes,  till  all  are  in  the  pan ;  pour  on  the 
liquor ;  have  enough  to  fill  nearly  to  the  top ;  add  a  little 
more  pepper  and  salt,  if  not  well  seasoned,  and  a  large 
lump  of  butter  ;  dredge  on  a  little  flour ;  slit  and  put  on 
top  crust ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour  and  a  half, 
keeping  the  pan  filled  with  hot  water. 


;  SOUPS. 

Bean  Soup — Can  be  made  with  either  beef  or  pork ; 
pickled  pork  is  best ;  pick  and  wash  the  beans  early  in 
the  morning  J  put  on  the  fire  in  cold  water;  let  them  sim- 
mer two  hours ;  then  boil  hard  half  an  hour ;  then  skim 
out  and  add  to  your  meat,  which  should  be  boiling  in  the 
meantime  in  as  much  water  as  you  wish  soup ;  cook  till 
thoroughly  done,  adding  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  thick- 
ening. 

Beef  Soup. — Take  a  shank  of  beef,  cut  in  pieces,  break- 
ing the  bone  to  let  out  the  marrow,  boil  very  tender; 
when  half  done  add  salt,  pepper,  sliced  onions,  chopped 
cabbage,  a  few  sliced  turnips  and  potatoes ;  lastly,  some 


I 

16  FAMILY     DIRECTOEY. 

dropped  dumplings,  made  by  beating  two  eggs  in  half  a 
pint  of  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  drop 
in  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  and  boil  half  an  hour. 

Chicken  or  Noodle  Soup. — Cut  in  small  pieces  your 
chicken,  and  add  as  much  water  as  you  wish  soup ;  add 
one  tablespoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper ;  while  this  is  boil- 
ing beat  two  eggs  and  add  flour  enough  to  make  it  into  a 
stiff  dough,  and  roll  it  out  in  flour  as  thin  as  possible; 
roll  up  and  cut  in  strips  as  fine  as  twine  and  two  inches 
long,  and  shake  out  to  dry  a  little ;  add  these  and  a  lump 
of  butter  to  the  soup,  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Soups  should 
never  be  boiled  rapidly,  and  all  superfluous  fat  should  be 
skimmed  off.  If  the  soup  is  not  as  rich  as  you  wish,  add 
a  little  thickening  made  of  flour  and  water. 

To  Cook  Corn. — Cut  from  the  cob ;  avoid  cutting  too 
near  it ;  then  scrape  to  get  the  balance  of  the  juice ;  add 
to  the  corn  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  a  large  lump  of  but- 
ter, pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  stew  slowly  three  quarters  of 
an  hour,  and  you  have  the  best  corn  ever  eaten. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. — Pour  on  them  boiling  water  andr 
let  them  remain  in  it  two  minutes  to  loosen  the  skins,  peel 
and  put  them  in  a  stew  pan,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and 
butter ;  let  them  stew  half  an  hour,  then  pour  upon  but- 
tered toast  and  serve  them. 

Asparagus  on  Toast. — Cut  in  two  parts,  putting  the 
green  ends  by  themselves ;  cook  the  white  end  half  an 
hour  before  putting  in  the  green  j  when  well  done  take 
half  a  pint  of  water  from  the  asparagus,  add  to  it  a  little 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  without 
lumps;  have  ready  a  dish  with  several  slices  of  toast, 
skim  out  the  asparagus  and  pour  the  gravy  boiling  over  it. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  17 

VEGETABLES,  EGGS,  SAUSAGE,  LARD,  BRINES. 

Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant. — Wash  and  scrape  the 
salsify,  boil  it  tender,  then  drain  it  dry  and  mash  it  j  have 
ready  bread  crumbs,  make  the  oyster  plant  into  cakes, 
roll  it  in  the  crumbs,  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown.  It  is 
also  very  nice  stewed  tender  and  a  gravy  made  with  a 
little  butter,  cream  and  flour. 

Corn  Oysters. — Grate  young,  sweet  corn  into  a  dish, 
and  to  one  pint  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  a  teacup  of  flour, 
half  a  gill  of  cream,  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  mix  well  to- 
gether. Fry  it  exactly  like  oysters,  dropping  it  into  the 
fat  by  spoonsful  about  the  size  of  an  oyster. 

Cold  Slaw. — Select  a  white,  hard  head  of  cabbage, 
cut  it  in  half  and  lay  it  in  water  for  an  hour ;  when  ready 
shave  it  with  a  cutter  or  sharp  knife  very  fine  5  put  half 
a  pint  of  vinegar  on  to  boil,  beat  up  the  yolk  of  an  egg 
with  a  little  salt  and  cayenne,  pour  the  boiling  vinegar 
on  the  yolk,  stir  it  well  and  pour  it  over  the  shaved  cab- 
bage.   This  is  nice  with  roast  beef. 

To  Boil  Hominy. — To  be  wholesome  it  should  boil 
slowly  from  eight  to  ten  hours ;  care  should  be  taken  not 
to  scorch  it,  as  that  spoils  both  color  and  flavor ;  should 
be  boiled  in  a  large  vessel,  with  plenty  of  water,  and  re- 
plenished with  boiling  water  as  is  needful.  No  cold  water 
should  be  put  into  it.  When  done,  put  in  an  earthen 
vessel,  warming  what  you  need,  adding  a  little  butter, 
pepper  and  salt. 

I  deem  the  cooking  of  most  vegetables  so  simple  that 
they  need  no  directions,  except  that  they  be  well  cooked 
and  not  over-salted. 
3 


18  FAMILY     DIRECTOEY. 

To  Fry  Eggs. — ^You  should  always  pour  the  fat  from 
the  pan  after  ham  is  fried,  and  wash  it  out,  then  return 
the  clear  fat  and  fry  in  that. 

To  Poach  Eggs. — Break  eggs,  one  by  one,  in  a  cup, 
when  doubtful,  till  you  have  enough ;  pour  gently  into  a 
shallow  pan  of  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt,  let  the 
whites  cook  till  they  can  be  lifted  with  a  spoon,  put  a 
lump  of  butter  on  your  dish  and  take  them  up. 

To  MAKE  Sausages. — To  twenty-five  pounds  of  chop- 
ped meat,  which  should  be  one-third  fat  and  two  thirds 
lean,  put  twenty  spoonfuls  of  sage,  twenty-five  of  salt, 
ten  of  pepper,  and  four  of  summer  savory. 

Eender  Lard. — If  you  intend  to  render  some  of  the 
side  meat  into  lard,  do  it  separate  from  the  leaf  lard,  as 
it  is  harder  to  render,  and  should  be  cut  finer;  add  a 
pint  of  water  to  begin,  stir  occasionally  till  thoroughly 
cooked,  squeeze  through  a  cullender  or  coarse  flannel  bag 
— be  careful  not  to  scorch  5  if  put  in  jars,  they  should  be 
sound,  and  heated  in  hot  water  before  putting  in  the  lard, 
or  they  will  crack. 

Best  Substitute  for  Coffee. — Take  one  pint  of 
good  molasses  and  one  pint  of  water,  and  as  much  ship- 
stuff  as  this  can  possibly  moisten,  stir  well  and  have  no 
lumps  5  put  in  moderately  heated  stove  and  stir  while 
drying,  then  burn  as  you  would  coffee,  a  dark  brown, 
without  scorching  5  take  equal  quantities  of  coffee  and 
bran,  make  as  usual,  and  you  need  no  better  coffee,  if  you 
have  good  cream.  The  whites  of  two  eggs  stirred  well 
into  the  bran  when  nearly  cold  will  make  your  coffee  clear. 

Pickle  for  Haivis. — For  every  hundred  pounds  of 
ham,  take  eight  pounds  of  salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre, 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY,  19 

two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  a  quarter  ounces  of 
potash,  and  four  gallons  of  water  5  rub  tbe  hams  well  with 
fine  salt  before  packing,  and  let  them  remain  twenty -four 
hours,  then  put  them  in  the  pickle  and  let  them  remain 
well  covered  with  brine  six  weeks  j  let  the  meat  be  thor- 
oughly cool  before  salting. 

PiCEXE  FOR  Beef. — To  eight  gallons  of  water,  add 
one  quart  of  molasses,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  four  ounces 
salt-petre  and  salt  enough  to  make  it  bear  an  egg  well. 
This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  two  quarters  of  beef  For 
small  quantities,  take  a  stone  jar  with  about  one  gallon 
of  water,  made  salt  enough  to  bear  an  egg,  add  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  one  teaspoon  salt-petre ;  keep  well  under  the 
brine — will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  week,  and  will  keep  three 
weeks.    Tongues  must  be  cured  in  the  same  way. 

Pickle  or  Brine  for  Butter. — ^Dissolve  one  quart 
fine  salt,  one  pound  white  sugar,  one  teaspoon  saltpetre, 
in  five  quarts  water,  strain  it  on  the  butter  if  packed  in 
crocks;  if  in  rolls,  wrap  in  cloths.  Keep  well  under 
brine  and  it  will  keep  sweet  for  a  year. 

Brine  for  Cucumber  Pickles. — ^Wash  the  cucum- 
bers carefully,  place  them  in  a  clean  tub,  barrel  or  jar, 
cover  them  with  salt  as  they  are  packed;  cover  with 
coarse  cloth  or  cabbage  leaves,  and  place  a  weight  upon 
them  to  keep  them  under  the  brine.  If  you  wish  to  add 
more  pickles,  wash  as  before,  and  wash  the  cloth  or  leaves 
before  replacing  them,  using  more  salt.  They  will  keep 
in  this  way  a  year,  or  will  be  fit  for  use  in  a  week  by  soak- 
ing in  water  till  fresh. 

To  Dry  Corn. — Select  corn  when  just  fit  for  the  table, 
throw  it  in  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes,  take  from  the 
water,  drain  and  cut  from  the  cob ;  spread  on  large  tin 


20  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

pans  and  set  in  the  sun,  or  moderately  heated  stove  to 
dry.  When  thoroughly  dry,  put  in  bags  and  hang  it  in  a 
dry  place. 

To  Cook. — Wash  and  put  in  cold  water,  (not  too  much) 
let  it  simmer  slowly  for  three-quarters  of  an^'hour,  boil 
half  an  hour ;  dress  with  butter,  cream,  pepper,  flour  and 
salt.  Lima  beans  soaked  over  night  and  added  to  this 
make  a  fine  succotash. 

To  Dry  Lima  Beans. — Select  when  fit  for  table,  spread 
in  the  pod  in  sunny,  airy  place,  till  perfectly  dry,  shell 
and  bag  j  keep  in  a  dry  place.  To  cooTc,  soak  over  night, 
pour  off  the  water,  cook  till  done,  and  season  with  butter, 
cream,  pepper  and  salt. 


CANNING  FRUITS,  &C. 

Peaches. — ^Pare  and  seed  good  ripe  peaches  (not  too 
soft) ;  have  ready  good,  sweet  cans  j  fill  them  as  full  as 
possible  without  mashing  the  fruit.  To  each  quart  of 
fruit  add  a  tea-cup  of  sugar  j  set  the  cans  in  a  vessel  of 
cold  water  5  place  the  vessel  on  the  fire  and  let  it  remain 
till  the  water  boils;  seal  air  tight  while  hot.  Peaches 
canned  in  this  way  have  kept  good  two  years.  All  fruit 
may  be  canned  in  this  way. 

Fruit-cakners'  Eeceipt. — Take  three  and  a  half 
pounds  of  sugar  to  one  gallon  of  water ;  make  it  a  syrup, 
and  let  it  become  cold ;  fill  the  cans  with  fruit  and  pour 
over  it  the  cold  syrup ;  set  the  cans  in  water  and  let  it 
come  to  a  boil ;  boil  briskly  three  minutes,  and  then  seal. 

Spiced  Peaches. — Take  large  clings  (not  soft),  pare, 
and  slit  on  one  side ;  take  as  much  of  the  best  vinegar  as 
will  barely  cover  them.  To  every  pound  of  peaches  add 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  add  also,  cloves,  cinna- 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  21 

mon,  nutmegs,  &c.,  to  your  taste ;  boil  the  vinegar  and 
spices  half  an  hour ;  pour  the  hot  vinegar  on  the  fruit, 
and  let  it  stand  covered  till  the  next  day  ;  then  pour  off 
and  boil  again  same  as  before,  for  four  days ;  then  put 
all  into  a  vessel  and  simmer  half  an  hour  ;  take  out  the 
fruit  and  let  the  syrup  boil  half  an  hour  longer  ;  pour  it 
on  the  fruit  and  it  is  done.  Cherries,  gooseberries,  plums, 
apples,  melon-rinds,  &c.,  &c.,  can  be  spiced  in  the  same 
way,  adding  a  little  more  sugar  to  the  more  acid  fruits. 
Look  at  your  canned  fruit  every  day  for  a  week,  to  see 
that  your  corks  are  tight. 

CAimED  Quinces. — Pare,  quarter  and  core  them ;  then 
take  the  parings  and  cores,  free  from  rotten  specks,  and 
boil  in  water  enough  to  cover  them,  one  hour ;  strain 
through  a  jelly-bag,  and  add  to  this  liquor  half  a  pound 
of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit ;  put  in  your  quinces  and 
cook  till  quite  soft ;  seal  in  glass  jars. 

Apple  Jelly. — ^Wash  tart  apples,  take  out  the  stem 
and  blossom  5  slice,  and  add  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them ;  let  them  boil  tender  j  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  5 
add  one  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  juice ;  boil  briskly 
till  it  jellies,  stirring  all  the  time ;  put  in  glasses  and 
cover  with  thick  white  paper.  If  not  as  thick  as  wished, 
set  the  glasses  in  the  sun  for  a  few  days. 

Quince  Jelly. — Prepare  the  quinces  just  like  the 
apple. 

Currant  Jelly. — Pick  over  the  currants  with  care, 
put  them  in  a  stone  jar,  and  set  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water ;  let  it  boil  till  the  fruit  is  very  soft  5  strain  through 
a  sieve,  then  through  a  jelly -bag  5  add  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice,  and  boil  all  together  five 
minutes  5  put  in  glasses  and  set  in  the  sun  a  few  days. 


22  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Jams. — ^Blackberries,  currants,  raspberries,  gooseber- 
ries, &c.,  can  be  made  into  jams  by  adding  tliree-fourths 
of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit,  and  boiling  till 
stiff. 

Citron  Melon  Preserve. — Cut  in  pieces  the  size 
you  wish,  take  out  the  soft  center  and  seeds,  pare  off  the 
green  rind  and  throw  the  pieces  in  cold  water ;  let  it 
stand  over  night.  On  the  following  day,  boil  in  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  twenty  minutes,  adding  alum  the 
size  of  a  walnut  to  each  gallon  of  water,  to  green  them. 
Then  soak  four  hours  in  cold  water,  pour  off  and  drain ; 
then  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound 
of  fruit ;  add  sliced  lemon  and  race  ginger  to  taste ; 
boil  till  clear.  By  using  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
fruit,  cooking  well  and  drying,  you  can  have  good  dried 
citron  for  cake. 

To  Clarify  Sugar  for  Preserving. — For  each 
pound  of  sugar  allow  half  a  pint  of  water ;  for  every 
three  pounds  of  sugar  the  white  of  one  egg.  Mix  when 
cold ;  boil  a  few  minutes  and  skim  it  j  let  it  stand  ten 
minutes,  skim  again,  and  strain  it. 

Apple-Butter — ^To  keep  without  sealing,  must  be 
made  of  sweet  cider,  boiled  down  one-half.  This  is  too 
strong  to  be  palatable,  and  a  better  way  is  to  boil  the 
cider  down  one-third,  and  seal  in  half-gallon  jugs.  If 
cider  is  scarce,  a  fine  apple-butter  can  be  made  by  boiling 
ten  gallons  of  cider  one-half;  then  add  one  gallon  of  best 
molasses.  A  mellow,  sweet  apple  that  will  cook  is  best.  To 
save  time  in  making,  stew  your  apples  in  cider,  and  skim 
out  as  fast  as  done,  while  your,  cider  is  boiling  down ; 
commence  stirring  as  soon  as  you  put  in  the  apples  j  boil 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  23 

to  a  thick  jelly,  and  put  in  spices,  half  an  ounce  to  the 
gallon,  to  suit  taste,  half  an  hour  before  done. 

Tomato-Butter. — Take  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  wash 
clean,  drain  and  slice  j  stew  till  quite  tender,  and  strain 
through  sieve ;  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint 
of  pulp ;  boil,  stir,  and  spice  as  apple  butter.  (Many  per- 
sons think  it  better.) 

Peach  Marmalade. — Pare  and  seed  your  peaches  ;  to 
every  pound  of  fruit  add  half  a  pound  of  sugar ;  boil  till 
quite  stiff,  stirring  like  apple-butter;  seal  in  half  gallon 
jars. 

To  Seal  Large  Jars. — Take  a  piece  of  white  writing 
paper  and  place  it  over  the  top  of  the  jar,  and  allow  two 
inches  more  than  covers  it.  Then  cut  four  pieces  of  the 
same  size ;  make  a  good  paste  with  flour;  have  your  jars 
scalded  with  hot  water ;  fill  in  your  apple  butter  or  mar- 
malade hot ;  paste  round  the  first  piece  of  paper  where 
it  touches  the  jar,  then  paste  the  paper  all  over,  top  and 
sides  j  then  paste  again,  until  you  have  put  on  four  pieces 
of  paper,  leaving  the  outside  of  the  top  piece  unpasted. 
If  done  right  it  will  be  effectually  sealed. 

Tomato  Catsup. — Take  one  bushel  of  tomatoes,  wash, 
slice  and  stew  them  till  they  are  soft;  squeeze  them 
through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  add  half  a  gallon  of  the 
best  vinegar,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  salt,  two  ounces  of 
cloves,  four  ounces  of  allspice,  three  tablespoons  of  black 
pepper ;  mix  all  together  and  boil  about  three  hours,  or 
till  it  is  reduced  about  one-half,  then  bottle  without 
straining,  and  seal. 

Cucumber  Catsup. — Take  half  a  peck  of  young  cu- 
cumbers (long  pickling  the  bestj,  pare  and  chop  fine ;  to 


24  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

every  pint  add  a  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  let  it  stand  over 
night ;  in  the  morning  drain  through  a  coarse  cloth,  and 
add  six  finely  chopped  onions,  a  dessert-spoon  of  pepper, 
and  as  much  best  cider  vinegar  as  will  make  it  quite 
moist ;  bottle  and  seal  in  half-pint  jars. 

Canned  Toimatoes. — Scald  just  enough  to  skin ;  when 
skinned,  put  in  a  cullender  and  drain  5  put  in  a  kettle 
and  let  them  boil  half  an  hour ;  then  i)ut  into  hot  cans 
or  jars  and  seal  tight.  All  kinds  of  fruit,  stewed  and 
sweetened  as  for  the  table,  and  sealed  up  hot,  may  be 
kept  as  well  as  preserves. 


PICKLES. 

Pickle  Toiviatoes. — As  they  are  gathered  throw  them 
into  cold  vinegar ;  when  you  have  enough  take  them  out 
and  scald  some  spices  tied  in  a  bag,  in  good  vinegar,  and 
pour  it  hot  over  them ;  a  few  slices  of  onions  will  improve 
them. 

Pickle  Onions. — Peel  and  boil  in  milk  and  water  ten 
minutes,  then  drain  off  and  pour  scalding  spiced  vinegar 
over  them. 

Pickle  Damsons. — To  one  gallon  of  damsons  take  one 
quart  of  strong  vinegar  and  three  pounds  of  sugar,  some 
cloves  and  mace;  place  the  damsons  in  a  jar;  boil  the 
sugar,  spices  and  vinegar  together,  and  while  boiling  hot 
pour  it  over  them ;  do  this  four  successive  mornings, 
and  on  the  fifth  boil  all  together  and  they  are  ready  for 
use. 

Pickle  Peppers. — Carefully  remove  the  seeds  from 
green  peppers,  so  as  not  to  mangle  them,  soak  them  four 
days  in  salt  and  water  j  before  pickling  soak  them  well  in 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  25 

fresh  water,  stuff  tliem  with  chopped  cabbage,  seasoned 
with  cloves,  cinnamon  and  mace ;  let  the  vinegar  come  to 
a  boil  and  pour  it  over  them. 

Pickle  Eed  Cabbage. — Take  two  firm  heads,  remove 
outside  leaves,  cut  very  fine  and  mix  in  half  a  cup  of  salt, 
tie  up  in  a  thin  cloth  and  let  it  hang  three  hours  to  drain ; 
then  put  in  a  jar ;  boil  in  a  quart  of  good  vinegar,  three 
bits  of  race  ginger,  one  pod  red  pepper,  one  onion,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  pour  on  hot. 

PiCEXE  Cucumbers. — Have  the  salt  soaked  out  by- 
changing  the  water  frequently ;  to  every  gallon  of  good 
cider  vinegar  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  alum  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut,  some  cayenne  pepper,  one  ounce  of  cloves  j  let  them 
come  to  a  scald ;  bottle,  or  put  in  stone  jars. 

Family  Yinegar. — Take  five  gallons  of  warm  rain 
water,  one  gallon  of  molasses  and  two  quarts  of  good 
yeast ;  keep  in  open  vessel,  and  in  four  weeks  you  will 
have  good  vinegar :  add,  to  keep  your  supply,  in  the  same 
proportion,  water  and  molasses. 

Cider  Yinegar. — To  make  cider  into  vinegar  never 
have  your  barrel  more  than  half  full,  and  add  to  it  one- 
fourth  part  of  soft  water  j  leave  the  bung  open  for  free  air, 
covered  with  gauze ;  keep  in  a  warm  place,  and  where  it 
will  not  freeze :  two  quarts  of  good  yeast  should  be  added 
to  a  barrel. 

Cherry  Yinegar  for  Sumiher  Drinks. — ^To  six 
quarts  of  cherries  (broken  up)  add  two  quarts  of  vinegar; 
let  it  stand  three  days ;  then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag, 
and  to  one  pint  of  juice  add  three-quarters  of  a  pound 
of  white  sugar ;  boil  twelve  minutes  and  skim ;  one  gill  of 
the  above,  added  to  a  tumbler  of  water,  makes  a  very 
pleasant  drink  for  summer. 


26  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Easpberry  YmEGAR. — ^Pour  one  quart  of  vinegar  on 
one  quart  of  raspberries ;  the  next  day  strain  it  through 
a  sieve  on  another  quart  of  berries ;  continue  this  process 
for  five  or  six  days.  Then  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  one 
pound  of  white  sugar;  put  it  in  a  jar  and  set  it  in  a  vessel 
of  boiling  water  until  it  is  thoroughly  scalded ;  then  bottle 
for  use.  Blackberries,  or  any  other  acid  fruit,  can  be 
used  in  the  same  way. 

Ginger  Beer. — Take  two  gallons  of  water,  two  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  two  ounces  of  ginger ;  boil  one  hour  and 
skim ;  pour  into  a  vessel  and  add  one  sliced  lemon  and 
half  an  ounce  of  cream  tartar ;  when  nearly  cold  add  a  cup 
of  yeast ;  when  fermentation  ceases  bottle  tight  and  tie 
down  the  corks. 


DOMESTIC  WINES. 

Elderberry  Wine. — To  every  gallon  of  ripe  berries 
add  one  gallon  of  water ;  let  it  stand  one  day,  often  stir- 
ring ;  then  put  them  in  a  copper  kettle  and  boil  well  half 
an  hour  j  take  off  and  strain ;  put  the  juice  into  the  kettle 
a  second  time,  and  to  each  gallon  add  three  and  a  half 
pounds  of  moist  sugar ;  boil  it  half  an  hour,  and,  within 
the  last  five  minutes,  add,  tied  in  muslin,  four  ounces  each 
of  bruised  or  race  ginger  and  allspice  to  every  ten  gallons ; 
then  take  out  the  spice,  and  when  cool  add  a  gill  of  good 
yeast  to  each  gallon :  when  fermentation  ceases  put  it  into 
a  cask  or  jugs,  bung  it  down  closely,  and  let  it  stand  three 
or  four  months,  and  it  is  fit  for  bottling  and  use.  A  few 
damsons  added  give  the  wine  the  roughness  of  Port. 
This  is  an  excellent  wine  for  invalids. 

Currant  Wine. — Take  one  part  of  currant  juice  to 
three  parts  of  water,  and  stir  in  sugar  until  it  wiU  float  an 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  27 

egg ;  put  it  in  a  cask  and  keep  the  vessel  full  until  fer- 
mentation ceases ;  then  bung  it  down  closely  5  rack  it  off 
in  February  or  March. 

Blackberry  Wine. — To  every  gallon  of  fruit  add  three 
quarts  of  boiling  water  5  let  it  stand  twenty -four  hours, 
stirring  occasionally ;  strain  off  the  liquor  into  a  cask,  first 
adding  two  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  of  juice ;  cork 
tight  and  let  it  stand  until  the  following  October. 

Grape  WrN:E. — To  each  gallon  of  bruised  grapes,  per- 
fectly ripe,  add  one  gallon  of  water,  and  let  it  remain  a 
week  without  stirring ;  then  draw  off  the  liquor  carefully, 
and  to  each  gallon  add  three  pounds  of  lump  sugar  j  when 
fermentation  ceases  cork  it  down  tight,  and  in  six  months 
it  will  be  fit  to  bottle. 


HOUSEKEEPERS'  DEPARTMENT. 


COLORING. 


The  quantity  of  coloring  material  given  below  is  cal- 
culated for  two  pounds  of  goods,  except  the  pink,  which 
is  intended  for  ribbons,  &c. 

Yellow. — Boil  water  enough  to  cover  the  goods,  put 
in  a  half  pound  of  curcuma,  one  ounce  cream-tartar  and 
three  table  spoons  of  muriate  of  tin.  Boil  the  goods  in 
this  five  minutes  and  it  is  done.  To  make  orange  color, 
boil  ten  minutes. 

Green. — Use  the  yellow  dye  5  rinse  out  the  yellow 
goods,  put  back  the  rinsing  water  into  the  dye-kettle  and 
add  half  pound  fustic,  and  three  ounces  alum.  Boil 
thirty  minutes  j  then  put  in  two  tablespoons  of  chemic 
blue ;  put  in  the  goods  and  let  them  boil  five  minutes. 
To  make  the  goods  bottle  green,  boil  ten  minutes. 

Scarlet. — Boil  water  enough  to  cover  the  goods,  put 
in  five  ounces  lac-dye,  two  ounces  cream-tartar,  six  table- 
spoons of  muriate  of  tin.  Boil  the  goods  from  five  to 
twenty-five  minutes,  till  the  color  suits  your  fancy.  Brass 
or  tin  kettles  should  be  used. 

Pink,  or  Light  Silks. — Boil  water  enough  to  cover  the 
goods,  then  put  in  one  teaspoonful  of  cochineal,  pulver- 
ized, one  teaspoon  cream-tartar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  mu- 
riate of  tin.    Boil  the  goods  from  one  to  ten  minutes, 
n  til  the  color  suits. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  29 

Orange. — Take  three  ounces  of  annatto,  tie  in  a  strong 
muslin  bag,  wash  out  the  color,  as  you  would  indigo,  into 
a  kettle  of  strong  soap  suds  or  weak  pearlash  water,  put 
in  the  goods,  simmer  and  stir  half  an  hour,  rinse  well 
and  starch  if  needed ;  dry  in  the  shade.  This  process 
can  be  repeated  every  time  the  garment  needs  washing ; 
wash  out  a  little  at  a  time  and  save  the  bag  for  future 
use.  Old  sheets  or  faded  muslins  colored  in  this  way 
make  good  curtain  linings.  Faded  lawns  and  ribbons, 
colored  in  this  way,  look  well. 

Black. — For  three  pounds  of  yarn  or  goods,  take  two 
ounces  of  extract  of  logwood,  two  ounces  of  vitriol  and 
two  ounces  of  madder  j  put  the  madder  and  logwood  in 
a  brass  or  copper  kettle,  with  sufficient  soft  water  to 
cover  the  goods  well,  then  add  to  the  vitriol  in  another 
vessel,  sufiicient  water  to  cover  the  goods  j  simmer  and 
stir  in  the*  vitriol  water  half  an  hour  5  then  hang  out  and 
drain  well.  ^Tien  your  logwood  and  madder  are  thor- 
oughly dissolved  and  hot,  put  in  your  goods,  stirring  and 
lifting  frequently  for  the  air ;  hang  out  over  night  in  the 
dye,  then  rinse  them  in  hard  water  and  dry  again  j  then 
scour  in  warm  suds. 

Chemic  Blue — how  to  make. — Take  one  ounce  best 
pulverized  indigo,  put  eight  ounces  of  sulphuric  acid  in 
a  pitcher,  add  the  indigo  to  the  acid  slowly,  stirring  with 
a  stick  5  let  it  stand  two  days,  then  bottle  and  it  is  ready 
for  use.    Don't  get  it  on  your  clothing. 

Family  Dyes,  to  be  had  at  the  drug  stores,  are  valu- 
able for  coloring  ribbons  and  small  pieces  of  silk.  Rib-' 
bons  should  be  washed  in  clean  suds  and  not  rinsed.  You 
cannot  color  a  dark  color  light. 


30  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

To  Clean  Paint. — Take  common  whiting  and  mix 
with  warm  water  to  a  paste — dip  a  flannel  cloth  in  this 
and  rub  the  paint  briskly,  then  wash  off  with  clean,  cold 
water,  and  your  paint  will  retain  its  beauty  unimpaired. 

To  Clean  Carpets. — Two  tablespoonsfiil  of  ammonia 
added  to  a  half  gallon  of  warm  water,  rubbed  on  with  a 
sponge,  will  often  restore  the  color  of  carpets  when  taken 
out  by  acids  or  alkalies.  Another  way  is  to  add  a  pint  of 
ox-gall  to  two  gallons  of  water,  and  use  in  the  same  way. 
This  is  enough  for  a  large  carpet,  and  gives  it  a  bright, 
fresh  look. 

Oil  Paintings  may  be  wiped  with  luke-warm  water 
and  a  soft  sponge,  and  dried  with  a  soft  cloth. 

Oil  Blinds  must  be  stretched  out  on  a  table,  held 
firmly  and  washed  quickly  with  mild,  tepid  soapsuds 
and  wiped  dry. 

A  FRESH  EGa  will  siuk  in  water.  To  preserve  eggs 
in  winter,  grease  them  well,  and  pack  them  in  salt,  small 
end  down. 

To  REMOVE  PANES  OF  GLASS,  without  injuring  the  sash, 
apply  soft  soap  to  the  putty.  In  a  short  time  it  will  be- 
come so  softened  as  to  be  easily  removed. 

To  DRIVE  NAILS  in  hard  wood,  dip  the  points  in  oil  or 
grease. 

To  EXTRACT  PAINT  FROM  CLOTH. — When  it  is  dried  on, 
saturate  the  spot  with  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  let  it  re- 
main several  hours,  then  rub  it  between  the  hands. 

How  TO  EXAMINE  Wells. — Placc  a  looking-glass  over 
the  well  in  such  a  manner  as  to  throw  the  rays  of  the 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  31 

sun  to  the  bottom  of  the  well,  and  you  can  see  the  smallest 
pebble.  Morning  and  afternoon  are  the  best  times  for 
this  purpose. 

Neyer  go  into  a  well  to  clean  until  you  have  let  down 
a  lighted  torch  or  candle.  If  it  goes  out  it  is  unsafe. 
Throw  in  burning  chunks  or  fresh  lime,  to  expel  the  foul 
air. 

Black  Calicoes,  when  rusty,  may  be  restored  by 
dipping  in  a  weak  solution  of  copperas-water. 

To  WASH  CALICO  WITHOUT  FADiNO. — lufuse  three  gills 
of  salt  in  a  gallon  of  water  j  put  the  calico  in  while  hot, 
and  leave  it  until  cold,  and  in  this  way  the  colors  are 
rendered  permanent,  and  will  not  fade  by  subsequent 
washing. 

To  SOFTEN  HARD  WATER. — Add  <me  tables^oonful  of 
borax  to  every  gallon  of  water,  and  it  will  render  it  soft 
as  rainwater. 

To  MAKE  Soap. — Dissolve  in  one  gallon  of  hot  water 
six  pounds  of  potash,  four  pounds  of  lard  or  tallow,  one- 
fourth  pound  rosin  j  let  it  stand  four  days.  When  well 
dissolved,  add  ten  gallons  of  warm,  soft  water,  and  you 
have  one  hundred  pounds  of  the  best  soap. 

Furniture  Polish. — An  ounce  of  Yenice  turpentine 
dissolved  in  half  a  pint  of  alcohol,  applied  with  a  brush 
or  woolen  rag. 

Ants. — Coal  oil  spread  round  their  nests  with  a  feather 
will  soon  scatter  them. 


32  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 


FLOWER  GARDEN. 

All  lovers  of  flowers  should  have  a  small  hot-bed  in 
which  to  plant  the  seeds  of  Annuals  and  Dahlias,  Tube 
Eose  and  Gladiolus,  as  the  season  is  too  short  to  enjoy 
them  without. 

There  is  nothing  more  beautiful  for  the  yard  or  garden 
than  the  Fish  Geranium.  They  are  easily  propagated 
from  seed  and  slips,  and  easily  kept  in  winter  by  taking 
up  in  the  fall,  before  frost,  and  hanging  them  in  the  cellar, 
root  upward,  till  spring. 

Mildew  on  Roses — Can  be  effectually  cured  by  apply- 
ing soap  suds  or  old  brine  with  a  brush.  The  Green  Bug 
or  Rose  Pest  may  be  destroyed  by  sprinkling  the  plant 
with  Scotch  snuff  from  a  fine  pepper-box,  and  showering 
the  bushes  an  hour  after. 

Plants  in  Winter — Should  be  watered  with  warm 
water,  almost  hot  to  the  touch,  through  a  fine  nosed  water- 
ing pot,  held  high  above  the  plants  j  this  will  keep  them 
looking  green  and  fresh. 

Tulips. — If  you  want  them  to  bloom  in  the  spring, 
plant  in  the  fall,  in  a  rich  bed,  and  cover  with  manure  j 
to  increase  your  beds  take  up  the  bulbs  every  other  year, 
plant  the  small  bulbs  in  new  beds  about  one  foot  apart, 
set  pretty  deep  and  cover  with  manure.  All  tuberous  and 
fibrous  roots  can  be  increased  by  taking  up  in  the  fall  and 
dividing  the  roots  j  shoots  fr^om  roses  can  be  done  in  the 
same  way. 

PRUNiNa  Trees. — The  last  of  February  is  the  best  time 
for  pruning  trees,  vines  and  shrubbery. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 


33 


Farmers'  and  Gardeners'  Table. — Showing  the 
number  of  hills,  plants,  or  trees  contained  in  an  acre  of 
ground,  at  any  given  distance,  from  one  to  forty  feet  apart : 


40  feet  apart  will  take 27 


33 

25 

20 

15 

12 

10 

27 

8  feet 

apart  will  take 

40 

6    " 

((        ((      (( 

69 

4    " 

((        ((      <( 

108 

3    " 

((        11      li 

193 

2    " 

n            (<          « 

302 

H" 

<l            l(          (( 

435 

]    " 

«           (<         <( 

680 

1,208 

2,720 

4,840 

10,890 

19,360 

43,560 


GARDENING. 

Early  GardeninGt. — To  have  an  early  garden,  cover 
your  ground  with  well  rotted  manure,  and  plough  deep  in 
the  fallj  and  throw  up  in  ridges ;  at  the  same  time,  in  the 
sunniest  part  of  the  ground  sow  some  radish  and  lettuce 
seed,  and  plant  a  few  onion  setts ;  also  a  few  rows  of  pota- 
toes, protected  with  straw  and  manure. 

Plant  Tomatoes  in  hills,  and  tie  up  to  stakes,  pinch- 
ing off  the  top  branches.  The  Tilden  is  a  new  variety, 
smooth  and  solid,  and  said  to  be  very  good.  Tomato 
plants  are  not  safe  from  frost  unless  protected,  if  set  before 
the  20th  of  May. 

Peas. — If  you  have  no  means  to  stick  them,  plant  the 
Tom  Thumb  variety  j  they  are  very  productive,  and  need 
no  sticking  j  they  should  be  planted  as  soon  as  the  ground 
can  be  worked. 

Melons. — To  raise  fine  melons,  dig  holes  two  feet  deep 
and  five  feet  in  circumference  j  half  fill  the  holes  with  well 
rotted  manure,  make  the  hills  pretty  high  with  rich  leaf- 
mould  j  leave  but  two  or  three  plants  in  a  hill.  The  hills 
should  be  seven  or  eight  feet  apart. 


34  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Extra  Early  Peas — Planted  the  first  of  August  will 
give  you  fine  peas  late  in  the  fall.  If  you  wish  fresh  veget- 
ables till  late  in  the  fall,  plant  every  two  weeks  till  the 
middle  of  July ;  the  first  of  July  is  early  enough  to  plant 
cucumbers  and  melons  for  mangoes  or  pickles. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — Sprout  in  hot-bed  5  half  a  peck, 
well  sprouted,  will  raise  twelve  bushels.  The  first  of  June 
is  early  enough  to  set  out  the  plants  5  soil  should  be  deep 
and  mellow ;  plant  in  rows,  one  foot  apart,  a  little  deeper 
than  they  stood  in  the  hQt-bed :  water,  if  dry. 

Irish  Potatoes. — Plant  early  (to  raise  a  good  crop); 
select  large  potatoes  and  cut  in  pieces ;  if  scarce,  cut  the 
eyes  out  deep,  and  save  the  balance  for  family  use ;  plant 
the  eyes  ten  inches  apart.  Never  hoe  them  when  wet 
with  rain  or  dew ;  it  kills  the  vines  before  the  crop  matures. 

Sun  Flowers. — If  you  wish  to  keep  off  fever  and  ague, 
plant  sun  flowers  around  your  house ;  the  seed  is  good  for 
birds  and  chickens.  If  you  want  the  fragrance  of  "  Cey- 
lon^s  Isle,"  plant  the  wild  plum  and  crab  apple. 

A  piece  of  land,  220  feet  long  and  198  feet  wide,  contains 
an  acre ;  a  square  acre  is  a  fraction  less  than  209  feet  each 
way. 

An  acre  of  ground,  judiciously  planted,  will  raise  all 
the  fruit,  berries  and  vegetables  any  family  can  use. 

Insects  on  Veoetables. — A  gardener  says,  a  giU  of 
coal  oil,  stirred  through  a  gallon  of  water,  and  showered 
on  plants  through  a  watering  pot,  will  soon  cause  them  to 
travel.  This  may  be  a  remedy  for  that  great  pest,  the 
potato  bug.    It  is  worth  trying. 

Coal  Tar — Applied  to  the  bottom  of  posts,  hot,  when 
set  in  the  ground,  renders  them  almost  imperishable. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  35 

To  Dry  Fruit  well  you  should  have  a  small  room, 
surrounded  with  shelves,  and  furnished  with  a  stove  or 
fiimace. 

Cider — To  keep  sweet  all  the  year,  must  be  made  from 
sound  apples  j  let  it  stand  until  well  settled,  but  don't  let 
it  ferment.  Draw  off  into  gallon  jugs  or  bottles,  put  to 
each  gallon  a  dozen  raisins  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard 
seed  J  cork  tight  and  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 


FRUIT  DEPARTMENT. 


HOW  TO  PLANT  FRUIT  TREES. 

Select  a  sheltered  position  for  an  orchard.  The  best 
months  for  transplanting  ftnit  and  ornamental  trees  are 
October  and  ISTovember  in  the  fall,  and  March  and  April 
in  the  spring.  Peach  orchards,  while  young,  should  be 
kept  in  crops  of  corn  or  potatoes  until  the  trees  are  so 
large  that  the  raising  of  crops  is  unprofitable  j  after  that 
the  orchard  should  be  plowed  at  least  once  a  year,  (better 
twice),  so  as  to  keep  it  entirely  free  from  weeds  and  grass. 
For  transplanting  trees  the  earth  should  be  mellow  and 
dry ;  for  a  moderate  sized  tree  the  hole  should  be  three 
and  a  half  feet  in  diameter  and  eighteen  inches  deep ; 
always  large  enough  to  receive  all  the  roots  without  bend- 
ing. All  bruised  and  broken  roots  should  be  removed 
(before  planting)  with  a  sharp  knife,  by  cutting  clean  from 
the  under  side.  Care  should  be  taken  to  have  the  earth 
as  fine  as  possible,  and  to  fill  up  vacancies  about  the  roots. 
Shake  the  tree  gently,  but  do  not  draw  it  up  while  the 
earth  is  being  thrown  in. 

Apples  thrive  best  upon  rich  loamy  soil,  forty  feet  apart, 
but  will  grow  upon  almost  any  soil. 

Pears  thrive  in  a  clayey  soil,  with  deep  and  thorough 
stirring. 

Cherry. — ^Plant  only  upon  dry,  warm  situations, 
sandy,  gravelly,  stony  or  loamy. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  i7 

Peaches  do  best  in  sandy  loam,  gravelly  or  stony  land, 
twenty  feet  apart,  and  even  upon  quite  poor  land,  fifteen 
feet  apart. 

Plums  do  best  on  clayey  loam. 

Quinces,  also,  do  best  on  ricb  clayey  loam,  and  kept 
well  stirred. 

Grapes  delight  in  being  well  manured,  and  do  best,  as 
do  likewise  all  berries  and  small  fruits,  on  a  strong  loam, 
dry  and  rich.  A  south-east  exposure  is  considered  best. 
Grapes  should  have  an  annual  dressing  of  dried  muck, 
wood  ashes  and  lime,  well  mixed.  In  February  the  new 
growth  should  be  cut  back  to  three  or  four  eyes.  Among 
the  most  desirable  varieties  are  the  Concord,  Hartford, 
Catawba,  Prolific,  Diana  and  Delaware. 

Grapes  are  easily  propagated  from  cuttings  of  the  last 
yearns  growth.  They  should  be  cut  off  in  February,  two 
feet  in  length,  and  put  in  bundles,  and  buried  immediately 
six  inches  deep.  For  this  purpose  select  the  warmest 
weather  in  the  month.  Let  them  remain  in  the  ground 
until  the  first  of  May ;  then  take  them  up  and  plant  in 
rows,  in  a  sloping  position,  in  a  rather  shady  situation, 
leaving  the  upper  bud  a  few  inches  above  ground.  In 
this  way  nearly  every  cutting  will  grow.  After  a  year  or 
two,  transplant  carefully  where  you  want  them. 

For  small  vineyards  there  should  be  trenches,  two  or 
three  feet  deepj  for  large  ones,  subsoiling  will  answer-. 
Plant  cuttings  ten  feet  apart,  set  in  the  vineyard,  staking 
first  5  and,  to  insure  success  from  cuttings,  plant  two  at 
each  stake  5  remove  one,  if  both  grow. 

Gooseberries  and  Currants  should  be  planted  five 
feet  apart,  in  the  spring,  pinching  off  the  eyes  below  the 


38  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

ground.  Keep  free  from  weeds,  and  wet  frequently  with 
soap-suds ;  they  should  not  be  planted  in  the  shade.  To 
propagate,  cut  slips  and  plant  early  in  the  spring. 

Easpberries  require  a  strong,  deep  loam,  with  but 
little  sand,  in  a  moist,  cool,  situation,  or  shade  of  a  fence. 
The  plants,  when  set  out,  should  be  trimmed  at  the  top, 
and  planted  early  in  the  spring,  three  feet  apart,  and  not 
very  deep.  Best  varieties  are  Eed  Antwerp,  Fastolf, 
Franconi,  Ejievett's  Giant,  American  Black  Cap. 

Strawberries. — ^Make  your  beds  deep  and  mellow 
with  leaf-mould  or  vegetable  compost,  take  the  first  run- 
ners from  the  old  plant,  when  well  set ;  plant  in  rows  three 
feet  apart,  setting  the  plants  about  eighteen  inches  from 
each  other.  April  is  the  best  time  for  transplanting,  but 
any  time  will  do,  if  the  ground  and  weather  are  wet  5  some 
gardeners  prefer  July.  Keep  the  ground  free  from  weeds 
by  covering  about  the  plants  with  tan  or  leached  ashes, 
and  protect  in  winter  with  straw  or  corn-fodder.  New 
land,  just  cleared,  will  produce  the  largest  crop,  but  they 
can  be  grown  on  any  land,  if  deep,  rich  and  well  drained. 
When  making  new  beds,  if  the  plants  are  in  your  garden, 
lift  carefully  with  a  trowel,  taking  as  much  earth  up  with 
them  as  you  can.  When  in  bloom,  if  the  weather  is  dry, 
water  freely — a  slight  sprinkle  will  not  do. 

The  newest  and  best  varieties  are  Wilson's  Albany, 
Agriculturist,  Jucunda  or  Knox's  700. 

N.  B. — There  has  been  a  strawberry  called  the  BoUD- 
NOT,  experimented  upon  and  brought  to  perfection  this 
season,  (1867)  by  Mr.  Merryman,  of  Granville,  Licking 
county,  Ohio,  which  promises,  for  productiveness,  size 
and  flavor,  to  be  the  most  desirable  yet  cultivated  in  the 
United  States. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  39 

Blackberries. — This  is  a  very  desirable  fruit ;  every 
one  who  owns  an  acre  of  land  might  raise  their  own.  The 
Lawton  is  a  new  variety,  and  very  productive,  and  de- 
lights in  a  deep,  rich  soil.  The  ground  should  be  sub- 
soiled  before  planting.  It  should  be  manured  well  in  the 
fall,  and  forked  in  between  the  rows  in  the  spring.  The 
rows  should  be  six  feet  apart,  and  the  plants  should  not 
be  allowed  to  grow  more  than  four  feet  high.  When  well 
cultivated,  they  will  produce  two  hundred  bushels  to  the 
acre. 

Grafting  and  Budding. — Select  your  grafts  from 
branches  which  have  borne  fruit  the  previous  season  5  for 
budding,  select  from  those  which  have  fruit  on  themj  put 
the  bud  on  the  north  side  of  the  tree,  removing  the  wood 
from  the  bud ;  bud  in  damp  weather,  evening  and  morning. 
The  pear  may  be  budded  in  June,  the  peach  in  September ; 
^  grafts  lor  cherry  or  plum  should  not  be  cutlater  than  the 
middle  of  February. 

Grafting  Wax. — Take  one  pound  of  tallow,  four  pounds 
of  rosin,  and  two  pounds  of  beeswax,  (all  clean  articles), 
melt  them  all  together,  and  when  they  come  to  a  foam 
pour  the  whole  into  a  tub  of  water  5  then,  with  greased 
hands,  work  it  like  shoemaker's  wax. 

Old  Fruit  Trees. — Kever  cut  them  down  j  trim  the 
tops  well,  and  cultivate,  and  enrich  the  roots  j  graft,  and 
they  will  be  as  productive  as  in  youth.  The  peach  will 
last  many  years  if  kept  closely  pruned ;  any  sized  tree  can 
be  removed  by  taking  pains,  and  making  the  holes  large 
and  deep,  and  putting  in  rich  soil ;  the  holes  should  be  as 
large  in  circumference  as  the  roots  of  the  tree,  and  two 
feet  deep.  Instead  of  staking,  a  better  plan  is  to  ballast 
with  stone,  even  quite  large  ones;  never  plant  a  tree 
deeper  than  it  stopd  in  the  ground  before. 


40  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

CuRCULio. — To  be  successful  in  raising  plums,  keep  tlie 
ground  loose  and  free  from  weeds  until  the  tree  is  ready 
to  bear  -,  then  pound  the  earth  hard  round  the  tree,  and 
admit,  during  the  fruit  season,  hogs  and  poultry. 

Peach  BoRER.^In  May  remove  the  earth  from  the 
tree  and  hunt  out  and  kill  the  borer  j  then  apply  ashes  or 
slaked  lime,  and  replace  the  earth.  Wash  the  trunk  of 
the  tree  in  May  and.  Septem-ber  in  strong  soap-suds. 
Garlick  or  tansy  planted  at  the  root  of  the  tree  is  said  to 
13revent  the  borer. 

MuLCHiNGr  is  covering  the  earth  around  the  roots  of 
trees  or  plants  with  tan,  sawdust,  straw,  or  sods  turned 
upside  down.   Trees  just  planted  should  always  be  mulched. 

It  is  worth  knowing  that  in  England  many  farmers 
more  than  support  their  families  on  six  acres  of  land, 
beside  i^aying  heavy  rents;  and  in  Germany  on  five  acres, 
beside  laying  up  money. 


FARMERS'  DEPARTMENT. 


Grass  and  Grain. — ^Farmers  lose  a  great  deal  of  nutri- 
ment by  allowing  their  grass  and  grain  to  get  too  ripe 
before  cutting. 

]VlANURES. — Their  value  consists  in  their  divisibility 
through  the  soil.  Small  quantities  of  manure,  thoroughly 
intermingled  with  the  soil,  should  be  the  farmer's  rule. 

Clover  as  a  Manure. — 'No  green  crop  is  so  serviceable 
as  a  manure.  The  second  crop  of  the  early  variety  should 
be  saved  for  seed. 

Manuring  Wheat. — When  manure  or  lime  is  applied 
to  wheat-land,  it  should  not  be  plowed  in,  but  spread 
upon  the  surface,  and  harrowed  in. 

Eelative  Value  of  Pork  and  Corn. — Assuming 
that  it  takes  six  and  two-thirds  pounds  of  com  to  make 
one  pound  of  pork,  the  cost  of  its  production  will  be  seen 
by  the  following  estimate.  The  labor  and  trouble  of  feed- 
ing and  taking  care  of  the  hogs  is  not  included : 

When  corn  costs  12^  cents  per  bushel,  pork  costs  1:^  cents  per  pound. 

((  (<  Q;-  ((  U  ((  <(  O  <(  (( 

((  «  OO  ((  ((  <(  ''  4        '  <'  " 

«  (<  An  ((  ((  ((  <<         K  ((  (( 

Three  and  a  half  pounds  of  cooked  meal  make  one 
pound  of  pork.  Five  pounds  of  corn  will  make  one  pound 
of  beef. 


42  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Cooked  Food  for  Cows. — If  you  want  your  cows  to 
give  rich  milk  and  make  yellow  butter  in  winter,  coolc  their 
food.  Pumpkins  and  carrots  are  said  to  be  tlie  best  food 
for  butter  and  cheese.  K  a  cow  is  allowed  to  go  dry  too 
long,  with  her  first  calf,  the  evil  can  never  be  remedied. 


ROOT  CROPS. 

Turnips  fed  directly  after  milking  will  not  effect 
the  milk;  the  rutabaga  turnips,  carrots  and  pumpkins 
are  good  for  all  kinds  of  stock.  Farmers  pay  too  little 
attention  to  this  crop )  a  great  deal  of  hay,  corn  and  money 
may  be  saved  by  attention  to  it.  There  is  nothing  better 
for  milk  cows  than  sugar  beets.  Professor  Mapes  says : 
"  Eoot  crops  are  valuable  mixed  with  cut  straw  or  hay, 
rendering  them  soluble.'' 

Butter. — A  farmer  says  he  has  experimented  for  six- 
teen years  to  ascertain  the  best  method  of  feeding  to  pro- 
duce the  greatest  quantity  of  butter,  and  has  found  it  to 
be  in  the  winter,  when  the  cows  were  fed  on  meal  and 
roots,  and  least  when  the  cows  have  been  turned  on  grass 
in  the  spring. 

Hay  for  Cows  in  Sumjvier. — When  cows  become 
bloated  on  grass  in  warm,  wet  weather,  they  should  be  fed 
once  a  day  with  dry  hay,  as  it  absorbs  the  fluids  and 
benefits  the  cows. 

Fattening  Fowls. — One-half  the  quantity  of  food  can 
be  saved  by  giving  plenty  of  charcoal.  Boiled  potatoes, 
cracked  corn,  scraps  of  fresh  meat,  and  plenty  of  tresh 
water,  will  make  them  lay  eggs  in  winter.  Lime  should 
occasionally  be  scattered  about  the  poultry  house  and 
yard  J  it  will  keep  your  fowls  clear  of  vermin  and  in  a 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  43 

healthy  condition  j  on  the  droppings,  however,  sulphate  of 
lime,  (common  plaster),  ashes  or  dried  muck  should  be 
thrown. 

Poultry  for  Market. — Leave  the  entrails  in ;  after 
taking  off  the  feathers,  dip  alternately  into  hot  and  cold 
water  j  this  done  several  times  gives  them  a  plump  ap- 
pearance. 

Eggs  which  approach  the  nearest  to  roundness  are  said 
to  produce  females  j  those  more  pointed  produce  males. 

Fattening  Cattle  on  Hay. — Grass,  cut  while  it  is  in 
blossom  and  carefully  made,  will  fatten  cattle  nearly  as 
well  in  a  dry  as  in  a  green  state ;  some  of  the  best  farmers 
are  particular  in  making  their  hay  for  this  purpose. 

Time  to  Cut  Timber. — Cut  timber  from  the  middle  of 
September  to  the  middle  of  December,  and  you  cannot  get 
a  worm  into  it ;  October  and  November  perhaps  the  best 
months ;  and  you  will  avoid  worms  and  powder-post  (as 
it  is  called). 

Scratching  UP  Corn. — Soak  your  seed  corn  in  soft 
soap,  then  roll  it  in  plaster  Paris,  or  ashes,  to  facilitate 
'planting  J  crows  will  not  touch  it. 

To  Measure  Corn  in  the  Crib. — ^Two  cubic  feet  of 
good  sound  dry  corn  in  the  ear  will  make  a  bushel  of 
shelled  corn  j  hence,  multiply  the  length  and  breadth  to- 
gether, and  that  product  by  the  height,  gives  the  number 
of  cubic  feet  in  the  crib,  and  this  last  product,  divided  by 
two,  gives  the  number  of  bushels  of  shelled  corn  contained 
in  the  crib. 

To  Eaise  Buckwheat.--Sow  from  the  20th  of  June 
to  the  4th  of  July ;  (good  crops  have  been  raised  sown  the 


44  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

12th) ;  best  ground,  a  light  loam,  half  a  bushel  of  seed  to 
the  acre ;  average  yield,  twenty-five  bushels  to  the  acre. 
If  cut  before  frost  the  straw  is  fijie  for  sheep. 

What  makes  a  Bushel. — The  following  table  of  the 
number  of  pounds  of  various  articles  to  a  bushel  may  be 
of  interest : 


lbs.  lbs. 


Wheat 60 

Corn,  shelled 56 

"      uusheUed 70 

Rye 56 

Oats 36 

Barley 46 

Buckwheat 56 

Onions 57 


Irisli  potatoes 60 

Sweet      "        50 

Bran 20 

Clover-seed 60 

Timothy-seed 45 

Blue  grass 14 

Dried  peaches 33 

Dried  apples 24 


Trembles  est  Cattle  is  supposed  to  proceed  from 
eating  a  poisonous  weed.  Drench  with  whisky  and  sweet 
oil  or  melted  lard. 

Horses  so  fatigued  that  they  will  not  eat  may  be  re- 
vived by  giving  a  pint  of  whisky  in  a  gallon  or  two  of 
water. 

Hoa  Cholera. — It  is  believed  that  free  access  to  char- 
coal and  wood  ashes  will  prevent  this  disease.  Every 
farmer  should  occasionally  burn  a  pile  of  logs  where  the 
hogs  can  get  at  it,  or  throw  it  in  their  pens. 

BoTTS  IN  Horses. — ^Dissolve  two  tablespoons  of  copper- 
as in  one  quart  of  warm  water ;  drench,  and  if  not  relieved 
in  fifteen  minutes  repeat  the  dose ;  in  fifteen  minutes  more 
dose  with  one  pint  of  molasses  and  one  pint  of  soft  soap, 
diluted  with  water.    This  is  said  never  to  have  failed. 

Colic  in  Horses. — One  pint  of  whisky,  one  ounce  of 
peppermint,  half  a  pint  of  warm  water. 

Scratches  in  Horses  may  be  cured  by  using  the  oil 
oft  white  lead. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  45 

Heayes  in  Horses  may  be  cured  by  feeding  them  with 
cornstalks. 

Houses  and  Barns. — Every  farmer  can  have  a  good 
house  and  barn,  at  a  trifling  cost,  by  purchasing  a  book 
published  by  Fowler  and  Wells,  entitled  "  A  Home  for 
All,"  or  by  inquiries  addressed  to  Wm.  G.  Barnard,  Bell- 
aire,  Ohio,  learning  how  to  build  the  concrete  or  gravel 
houses.  Mr.  B.  has  a  barn  fifty-two  by  thirty-eight  feet, 
twenty  feet  to  the  eaves  and  thirty-two  to  main  gable, 
containing  horse  and  cow  stables,  carriage  and  wagon 
houses,  harness,  tools,  cribs,  chicken  houses,  and  storage 
for  any  amount  of  hay  and  grainy  is  rat  proof  j  has  been 
built  seven  years  ^  is  hard  as  stone,  and  cost  six  hundred 
dollars. 

White-wash  for  OuT-BuiLDiNas  or  Fences. — Put 
in  a  large  iron  kettle  ten  pounds  fresh  slaked  lime ;  add 
as  much  boiling  water  as  will  make  into  a  thick  batter  j 
then  add  four  pounds  of  clean  tallow;  boil  one  hour, 
stirring  often.    For  use,  thin  with  hot  water. 


MEDICAL. 


CHOLERA— ITS  PREVENTIVES  AND  REMEDIES. 

This  disease  is  supposed  to  have  originated  among  pil- 
grims, making  long  and  wearisome  journeys  through 
a  desert  country,  without  sufficient  food,  or  water  to  satisfy 
thirst  or  purify  their  bodies  or  clothing.  It  has  now 
become  a  periodical  scourge ;  and^ntemperance,  filth,  and 
irregularity  of  life  still  invite  it,  as  it  is  that  class  of 
people  which  it  generally  attacks  first  j  then  it  becomes 
epidemic,  and  the  innocent  suffer  with  the  guilty. 

The  following  directions  are  given  by  the  Eev.  Cyrus 
Hamlin,  long  a  resident  missionary  at  Constantinople, 
where  the  cholera  has  prevailed  extensively;  also  the 
experience  and  directions  of  many  distinguished  physi- 
cians in  our  own  country. 

How  TO  PREVENT  IT. — When  the  season  for  its  preva- 
lence arrives,  remove  from  your  house  and  premises  every 
thing  impure,  and  scatter  fresh  slaked  lime  wherever  there 
is  any  foul  or  decomposing  substance.  White-wash  cellars 
and  every  place  practicable.  Where  it  would  be  incon- 
venient to  use  lime,  dissolve  one  pound  of  copperas  in 
three  gallons  of  water,  and  sprinkle  in  sinks,  chamber 
buckets,  and  every  thing  in  need  of  purification.  Admit 
the  sun  and  air  freely  in  your  houses;  air  thoroughly 
your  beds  and  bedding  every  morning ;  and,  above  all, 
attend  to  personal  cleanliness.  A  physician  says  cleanli- 
ness repels  the  disease,  while  filth  invites  it.  Sponge  or 
wash  the  body,  on  rising  in  the  morning,  at  least  three 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  47 

times  a  week,  in  cold  or  tepid  water,  rubbing  dry  with  a 
coarse  towel  until  the  skin  reddens. 

Diet. — If  tbe  disease  should  make  its  appearance  sud- 
denly, change  your  diet  as  little  as  possible,  as  too  much 
abstemiousness  is  as  bad  as  excess.  Quit  those  things 
which  are  indigestible,  and  substitute  those  which  are  not. 
A  physician  of  large  experience  says  he  never  knew  an 
habitual  good  liver  to  have  cholera  j  which  does  not  mean 
you  should  overload  the  stomach,  and  then  endeavor  to 
promote  digestion  by  drinking  beer  and  poisonous  whisky, 
which  is  certain  to  bring  it  on. 

Regularity  in  eating  enough  nutritious,  well-cooked  food 
to  satisfy  the  appetite,  may  be  called  good  living.  A 
judicious  cook  could  devise  a  great  variety  of  soups,  rice 
in  various  forms,  farina,  corn  starch,  and  bread  puddings ; 
besides  meats  of  desirable  kinds,  and  many  vegetables. 
During  its  prevalence  there  should  not  be  a  free  use  of 
fruits,  particularly  green  or  over-ripe  fruit.  Cabbage, 
onions  and  cucumbers  should  be  avoided. 

How  TO  TREAT  IT. — Dr.  Hamlin  says :  "  On  its  ap- 
proach, every  family  should  be  prepared  to  treat  them- 
selves, as  the  delay  in  waiting  for  a  physician  may  prove 
fatal.  If  you  prepare  for  it  it  will  not  come.  I  think 
there  is  no  disease  which  may  be  avoided  with  so  much 
certainty.  At  the  same  time,  the  imprudence  of  one  mem- 
ber of  a  family  may  invite  an  attack,  and  the  challenge 
wiU  never  be  refused.  The  attack  will  probably  be  made 
in  the  night,  and  if  not  prepared  to  treat  the  case  your- 
selves, it  may  prove  fatal  before  a  physician  can  be  had." 

Causes  of  attack.—'^  In  three-fourths  of  the  cases  it 
is  traced  directly  to  improper  diet  or  intoxicating  drinks, 
or  both  united  j  also,  to  a  sudden  check  of  perspiration, 
by  sitting  or  sleeping  in  a  current  of  air,  and  drinking  too 
freely  of  cold  water  when  hot  or  thirsty,  and  to  great 


4:8  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

fatigue,  anxiety  and  fear.  To  allay  this  unnecessary  fear, 
every  one  should  remember  that  it  is  not  an  incurable 
disease,  nor  the  only  one  that  destroys  life,  and  should 
endeavor  to  cultivate  a  calm,  resolute  spirit  and  a  firm 
trust  in  the  wisdom  and  goodness  of  God." 

He  also  says ;  "  Where  cholera  prevails,  nearly  every 
one  feels  more  or  less  disturbance  of  digestion,  part  of 
which  is  imaginary,  as  many  having  these  symi:>toms  do 
not  have  an  attack  j  but  when  diarrhea  does  set  in,  no 
matter  how  slight  or  painless,  attend  to  it  promptly,  for 
it  is  in  reality  the  skirmishing  party,  and  will  prove  fatal 
if  not  attended  to.  Many  have  committed  suicide  by  such 
neglect.  The  attack  seldom  commences  with  vomiting; 
but  no  matter  how  it  commences,  it  is  sure  to  hold  on. 

How  TO  ACT. — In  case  of  an  attack,  give  immediately, 
according  to  directions,  the  remedy  you  have  decided  to 
use ;  then  place  the  patient  in  bed,  with  sufficient  blankets 
to  induce  gentle  perspiration.  If  warm,  it  is  a  favorable 
symptom ;  if  not,  jugs  or  bottles  of  hot  water,  wrapped  in 
Hannel,  must  be  put  to  the  feet  and  sides.  Eepeat  and 
increase  the  dose,  according  to  direction,  every  time  the 
bowels  are  moved,  as  there  is  no  danger  of  giving  too 
much  while  they  are  moved.  By  no  means  allow  the  pa- 
tient to  rise  from  the  bed  to  attend  to  the  calls  of  nature ; 
use  bed  pan  or  other  appliances,  as  their  lives  may  depend 
on  the  observance  of  this  rule.  They  should  lie  as  much 
as  possible  calmly  and  quietly  on  the  back.  Admit  fresh 
air  freely,  but  not  on  the  patient,  and  fumigate  the  room 
frequently  by  a  few  grains  of  coffee  on  a  hot  shovel. 

If  the  diarrhea  is  not  soon  checked  resort  must  be  had 
to  injections.  Take  a  teacup  of  starch,  as  for  starching 
linen,  add  to  this  a  large  teaspoonful  of  laudaiium ;  give 
one-third  of  this  every  time  the  bowels  are  moved.  If 
this  does  not  check  it  add  half  a  teaspoonful  to  each 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  49 

injection  every  time  they  are  moved.  Dr.  Hamlin  says 
he  has  saved  patients  after  resorting  to  the  seventh  injec- 
tion. The  diarrhea  must  be  stopped,  or  the  patient  is 
lost.  If  there  is,  in  addition,  vomiting  and  cramps,  there 
must  be  large  mustard  plasters  applied  to  the  stomach, 
bowels,  calves  of  the  legs  and  feet,  and  the  jugs  of  hot 
water  kept  constantly  renewed.  Now  is  the  time  to  give 
Dr.  Hamlin's  No.  2. 

Thirst. — There  is  gTeat  thirst  attending  this  disease, 
which  must  in  no  case  be  gratified  to  any  extent.  If  ice 
cannot  be  had,  you  may  allow  them  to  rinse  the  mouth  or 
gargle  the  throat  with  cold  water.  A  spoonful  at  a  time 
of  gum  arable  water,  or  chamomile  tea,  as  cold  as  it  can 
be  made,  may  be  given.  If  possible,  procure  ice,  break 
in  small  pieces,  lay  in  a  saucer,  and  pour  over  it  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  essence  of  cinnamon  or  peppermint  5  lift  the 
ice  with  a  spoon,  taking  up  some  of  the  water,  and  let  it 
dissolve  in  the  mouth  without  chewing.  In  this  way  you 
may  give  them  all  they  want.  Dr.  Hall,  in  his  Journal  of 
Health,  says  he  has  known  Asiatic  cholera  to  be  cured  by 
using  ice  in  this  way. 

Collapse  is  simply  an  advanced  stage  of  the  disease, 
and  indicates  the  failing  of  the  powers  of  lifej  but  the 
blue  color,  the  sunken  eye,  or  the  vanishing  pulse,  are  no 
signs  that  the  case  is  hopeless.  Scores  of  such  cases 
have  recovered,  and  now  is  the  time  to  double  your  dili- 
gence. In  addition  to  No.  2,  give  a  tablespoonful  of 
brandy  every  half  hour,  rubbing  the  extremities  briskly 
with  hot  spirits  or  hot  flannels.  These  remedies  will  often, 
in  an  hour  or  two,  work  wonders. 

Diet. — ^Eice  water,  arrowroot,  toast  water,  and  chamo- 
mile tea,  are  the  best  articles  for  a  day  or  two  after  the 
attack  is  controlled.     The  chamomile  tea  is  valuable 
5 


50  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

in  restoring  the  tone  of  the  stomach.  After  this,  rice 
browned  and  well  boiled  and  eaten  with  sugar  and  nut- 
meg, or  cream  and  sugar,  is  a  palatable  and  safe  diet  in 
any  bowel  complaint.  A  typhoid  state  will,  for  a  few 
days,  often  follow  severe  cases,  but  seldom  proves  fatal. 
Patience  and  careful  nursing  will  soon  bring  all  right. 
The  greatest  danger  arises  from  drinking  too  freely,  as 
thirst  is  often  intense  for  twenty-four  hours  after  the 
diarrhea  is  checked.  Diminishing  doses  of  'No.  1  should 
be  given  every  four  hours — say  25,  20,  15  and  10  drops, 
to  prevent  a  return.  A  spoonful  of  arrowroot  added  to 
the  brandy,  when  the  patient  seems  weak  or  sinking,  is 
very  beneficial. 

Contagion. — Dr.  Hamlin  says,  those  who  are  most 
with  it  are  fully  convinced  that  it  is  not  contagious.  A 
physician  in  New  York,  of  large  experience,  says  it  is  his 
opinion  you  may  sleep  with  impunity  beside  an  expiring 
patient.  Another  says:  Let  no  one  be  deterred  from 
doing  their  duty  by  the  silly  and  cowardly  idea  that  it  is 
contagious ;  that  it  is  always  safe  to  do  your  duty,  and  it 
is  always  your  duty  to  aid  your  fellows  to  the  utmost  ex- 
tent of  your  ability. 

Dr.  Hamlin  says,  with  a  hand-bag  containing  mixture 
No.  1,  mixture  No.  2,  (for  vomiting,  etc.,)  a  few  pounds  of 
ground  mustard,  a  bottle  of  brandy,  a  paper  of  chamo- 
mile flowers,  and  a  paper  of  gum  arable,  you  are  perfect- 
ly armed  and  equipped  to  fight  this  disease. 

Those  whose  business  calls  them  from  home  should 
carry  a  phial  of  these  remedies  or  spirits  of  camphor,  and 
a  few  lumps  of  sugar  in  their  pocket,  and  when  any  un- 
pleasant feeling  arises,  take  six  drops  on  a  lump  of  sugar. 
This  will  generally  afford  great  relief,  and  may  prevent 
an  attack. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  "         51 

Persons  nervous  about  this  disease  should  neither  read 
nor  talk  about  it,  or  allow  any  one  to  do  so  in  their  pres- 
ence, as  they  often  imagine  themselves  sick  after  hearing 
anything  on  the  subject. 

]!!>[.  B.  Dr.  Hamlin's  remedies  are  worthy  the  highest 
confidence;  he  having  witnessed  their  beneficial  effects 
for  many  years.  The  compiler  of  this  directory  has  im- 
plicit confidence  in  "  New  Orleans  Remedy,"  from  expe- 
rience where  cholera  has  prevailed  j  and  as  it  is  very 
similar  to  Dr.  Hamlin's  No.  2,  for  severe  cases,  I  have  no 
hesitation  in  recommending  it  to  the  public  as  one  of  the 
very  best  remedies.  But  as  I  have  no  interest  in  either, 
except  to  do  good,  I  leave  every  one  to  choose  for  them- 
selves 5  but  would  urge  every  family  to  have  one  or  the 
other,  or  both,  constantly  on  hand,  and  be  ready  for  first 
symptoms,  as  in  this  depends  your  safety. 

Dr.  Hamlin's  No.  1  remedy  for  the  incipient  stages  of 
cholera.  Take  equal  parts  of  laudanum,  spirits  of  camphor 
and  tincture  of  rhubarb — thirty  drops  for  an  adult  on  a 
lump  of  sugar — ^repeat  and  increase  the  dose  to  35,  40, 
45  and  60  drops  at  every  movement  of  the  bowels.  When 
the  diarrhea  is  checked,  to  prevent  a  return,  diminishing 
doses  should  be  given  every  four  hours  of  25, 20, 15  and 
10  drops. 

Dr.  Hamlin's  No.  2,  (for  vomiting,  etc.) — ^Equal  parts 
of  laudanum,  capsicum,  tincture  of  ginger  and  tincture  of 
cardamon  seeds.  Dose,  30  to  40  drops,  or  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful,  to  be  increased  according  to  the  urgency  of  the  case. 
In  case  the  first  dose  should  be  thrown  up,  the  second 
should  stand  ready  to  be  given  as  soon  as  the  vomiting 
has  ceased. 

New  Orleans  Remedy. — Half  ounce  spirits  camphor, 
half  ounce  oil  cloves,  half  ounce  pulverized  red  pepper, 
half  ounce  rhubarb,  one  drachm  gum  opium.    Dissolve  in 


52  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

four  ounces  HofQnan's  Anodyne  tincture.  Dose — One 
teaspoonful  in  three  tablespoonsM  of  sweetened  water 
— repeat  every  time  the  bowels  are  moved. 

Dr.  Eubini^s  Camphor  Eemedy. — It  is  credibly  certi- 
fied that  Dr.  Eubini  of  Naples,  has  cured  over  five  hun- 
dred cases  of  Asiatic  cholera,  without  the  loss  of  a  single 
patient,  in  the  following  manner :  Put  the  patient  to  bed 
and  treat  according  to  directions  before  given — adminis- 
tering nothing  but  the  strongest  spirits  of  camphor  on  a 
lump  of  sugar,  as  he  says  water  destroys  the  effect  of 
camphor. 

To  an  adult  give  four  drops  on  a  lump  of  sugar  every 
five  minutes.  If  the  case  is  severe,  give  twenty  drops 
every  five  minutes.  If  the  patient  is  aged  and  accus- 
tomed to  spirits,  half  a  teaspoonfal  every  five  minutes. 

As  a  preventive,  he  says:  "Let  those  in  health,  living 
in  the  usual  way,  take  five  drops  on  a  lump  of  sugar  three 
times  a  day." 

!tir.  B.  While  there  is  no  cholera  prevailing,  and  may 
be  none,  acquaint  yourselves  thoroughly  with  the  mode 
of  treating  it. 


ACCIDENTS,  Etc. 

Drowned  Persons. — In  taking  them  from  the  water, 
handle  as  gently  as  possible.  Never  roll  on  a  barrel  or 
hold  up  by  the  feet.  This  practice  will  destroy  instead 
of  restore  life.  If  a  house  is  near,  carry  immediately  to 
it,  and  cut  the  clothing  from  the  body,  and  wrap  in  warm 
blankets,  and  lay  them  on  the  right  side,  with  the  head 
slightly  elevated.  Then  put  warm  bricks  or  jugs  of  hot 
water  to  the  feet  and  back.  Place  the  stem  of  a  pipe  or 
tube  into  one  nostril,  closing  the  other  and  the  mouth 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.,  53 

tight;  blow  vigorously  into  the  pipe,  and  endeavor  to 
inflate  the  lungs — rub  the  body  at  the  same  time  with  hot 
spirits  or  hot  water,  or  with  the  hand.  Place  flannels 
wrung  from  hot  water  on  the  stomach.  Admit  plenty  of 
fresh  air.  If  possible,  give  a  warm  injection.  These 
efforts  should  be  continued  for  four  or  five  hours,  as  per- 
sons have  been  restored  after  this  length  of  time.  When 
they  revive,  give  a  little  warm  brandy  and  water. 

SwiMMma. — Be  careful  where  you  bathe,  as  weeds  or 
roots  may  entangle  your  feet,  and  cramp  overtake  the 
best  swimmers.  To  save  yourself  from  being  drowned 
when  trying  to  save  others,  get  behind  them  and  catch 
them  between  the  shoulder  and  elbow. 

Frozen,  or  Stupieied  with  Cold. — Take  the  person 
into  a  cold  room,  admit  plenty  of  fresh  air,  rub  with  snow, 
or  sponge  the  body  with  cold  water,  then  rub  with  the 
hand  or  hot  flannel  until  warmth  is  restored.  Frozen 
ears  and  limbs^  should  be  handled  gently,  and  the  cold 
bathing  continued  longer  than  when  the  whole  body  is 
affected.  Give  warm  spirits  to  revive,  and  approach  the 
heat  gradually. 

LiGrHTNiNG. — 'Neyev  stand,  during  a  thunder-storm,  un- 
der a  tree,  near  a  leaden  spout,  iron  gate  or  pallisade. 
When  stunned  by  lightning,  shower  the  head  freely  and 
use  friction  over  the  whole  body. 

Persons  on  Fire. — To  save  yourself  and  extinguish 
as  soon  as  possible,  catch  up  the  first  thing  you  can  find, 
woolen  rug  or  piece  of  carpet,  stretch  wide,  hold  high 
before  you,  and  place  it  round  the  neck  in  front  of  the 
person  on  fire,  lay  them  down  immediately  and  put  out 
with  water,  if  near,  or  more  clothing. 


54  FAMILY     DIRECTOEY. 

BuENS  on  Scalds. — Cover  tlie  parts  burned  with  flour 
or  thick  batter,  spread  on  a  cloth ;  keep  the  outside  wet 
with  cold  water  until  the  pain  ceases,  then  dress  with 
simple  cerate,  linseed  oil  or  gympson  salve.  If  there  is 
much  inflammation,  apply  slippery-elm  poultices. 

Cutting  an  Aetery. — ^Bandage  tightly  ahove  the 
wound,  to  stop  bleeding,  close  the  wound  and  apply  stick- 
ing plaster,  or  a  piece  of  soft,  wet  leather,  or  a  piece  of 
stiff  dough,  and  bandage  tightly ;  procure  a  physician  as 
soon  as  possible.  These  directions  attended  to  may  save 
life. 

Antidotes  foe  Poisons. — ^If  you  have  swallowed 
poison  by  mistake,  or  taken  an  over-dose  of  laudanum,  or 
anything  dangerous,  mix  and  swallow  immediately  a  des- 
sert spoonful  of  good  mustard,  in  a  tumbler  of  warm 
water.  It  acts  speedily  as  an  emetic,  is  always  at  hand, 
and  may  be  used  in  any  case  with  safety.  No  family 
should  be  without  it,  especially  those  living  in  the  country. 
Sweet  oil,  melted  butter  or  lard,  or  milk,  or  white  of  an 
eggj  may  also  be  taken  with  good  effect. 

Hydeophobia  and  Snake  Bites. — Bathe  the  wound 
constantly  with  spirits  of  hartshorn  and  take  three  or 
four  doses  a  day  inwardly,  diluted.  The  hartshorn  de- 
composes chemically,  the  virus,  and  destroys  its  deleteri- 
ous effects.  Yarrow,  or  any  bitter  herb  applied  to  the 
wound,  and  the  free  use  of  whisky,  is  the  Indian  remedy 
for  snake  bites. 

Hydeophobia. — ^Bathe  the  wound  with  warm  vinegar 
and  wipe  dry,  and  pour  on  hydra-chloric  acid. 

Speains. — Hops  stewed  in  vinegar  and  thickened  with 
bran  or  Indian  meal,  applied  hot. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  55 

Ear  Ache. — Drop  a  few  drops  of  laudanum  and  sweet 
oil  in  the  ear,  and  close  with  a  piece  of  wool  or  cotton. 
If  very  severe,  wring  a  flannel  cloth  from  hot  water  and 
apply  over  the  ear. 

Sick  Head-Ache,  or  sick  stomach,  is  often  relieved 
by  the  use  of  hot  lemonade.  Soda  and  magnesia  are  both 
valuable  for  sick  or  acid  stomach. 

Cancer. — A  valuable  medical  work  says :  '^  one  of  the 
best  applications  in  this  disease,  is  a  cranberry  poultice. 
Sheep-sorrel  made  into  a  soft  pulp  is  considered  a  good 
substitute." 

Erysipelas. — Purge  the  bowels  freely,  then  give  twen- 
ty drops  tincture  of  iron  every  three  hours,  and  apply 
cranberry  poultice  as  soon  as  the  disease  appears. 

Tetter  has  been  cured  by  the  clear  oil  off  of  white 
lead.  Crude  petroleum  from  the  well,  has  also  cured  se- 
vere cases. 


COUGHS,  DIPTHERIA,  RHEUMATISM,  Etc. 

Couan  Syrup  i^o.  1. — One  ounce  boneset,  one  ounce 
slippery  elm,  one  ounce  stick  liquorice,  one  ounce  flax-seed ; 
simmer  together  in  three  pints  of  water  until  the  strength 
is  all  out ;  strain  carefully,  and  add  one  pint  of  best  mo- 
lasses and  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar ;  simmer  them  well 
together  until  quite  thick,  and  when  cold  bottle  tight. 
Dose  for  grown  person,  one  tablespoonful  three  times  a 
day,  or  oftener,  if  required.     Children  less. 

Cough  Syrup  Ko.  2. — Take  equal  parts  of  spignet, 
comfrey,  elecampane,  wild  cherry  bark,  and  hoarhound ; 
boil  in  three  pints  of  water  for  one  hour ;  strain,  and  add 
two  ounces  of  liquorice  and  honey,  or  white  sugar,  to  make 


56  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

a  thick  syrup ;  boil  again  half  an  hour,  and  bottle  for  use. 
This  has  cured  persons  supposed  to  be  in  consumptictn. 
Use  morning  and  evening,  a  glass  of  milk  warm  from  the 
cow.  A  gentleman  who  has  suffered  from  a  cough  at 
night  has  experienced  great  relief  from  eating  a  piece  of 
raw  onion  before  going  to  bed. 

Bronchitis. — Mullen  leaves,  dried  and  smoked  in  a 
pipe,  have  cured  severe  cases.  For  hoarseness  and  op- 
pression of  the  lungs  a  few  drops  of  tar  dropped  on  these 
leaves,  or  on  a  coal  and  smoked,  afford  great  relief. 

Asthma. — Take  printing  jpaper,  saturate  it  with  strong 
saltpetre  water  ,•  when  dry,  burn  slowly  in  your  room,  with 
doors  shut,  inhaling  as  much  of  the  fumes  as  possible. 
This  often  affords  great  relief. 

Bleeding  of  the  Lungs. — Eat  salt  or  dissolve  alum 
in  the  mouth. 

Bleeding  at  the  IsTose. — A  piece  of  ice  laid  upon  the 
wrist,  or  cold  water  showered  on  the  same. 

Scrofula. — Put  one  ounce  of  aquafortis  in  a  bowl  or 
saucer,  drop  into  it  two  copper  cents ;  when  the  efferves- 
cence ceases  add  two  ounces  of  strong  vinegar ;  the  fluid 
will  be  a  dark  green  color.  Apply  morning  and  evening 
with  a  soft  brush.  It  should  and  will  smart ;  if  too  severe, 
add  a  little  rain  water. 

Consumption. — Persons  inclined  to  this  disease  should 
eat  as  much  fat  meat  as  possible ;  also  use  all  the  cream 
they  can ;  if  spirits  are  used  put  them  in  sweetened  cream. 

Inflammations  are  more  readily  and  agreeably  sub- 
dued with  hot  than  with  cold  applications. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  57 

Croup. — Every  family  should  keep  syrup  of  ipecac,  or 
hive  syrup,  with  proper  directions  as  to  quantity  to  pro- 
duce vomiting;  sponge  the  breast  and  throat  with  cold 
water;  then  wrap  in  flannel.  Whatever  remedies  are 
used  must  be  promptly  applied,  as  it  admits  of  no  delay. 

DiPTHERiA. — The  following  recipe  is  from  a  physician 
who  says  that  out  of  one  thousand  cases  in  which  it  has 
been  used,  not  a  single  patient  has  been  lost.  The  treat- 
ment consists  in  thoroughly  swabbing  the  back  of  the 
mouth  and  throat  with  a  wash  made  thus  :  Table  salt, 
two  drachms ;  black  pepper,  golden  seal,  nitrate  of  potash, 
alum,  one  drachm  each ;  mix  and  pulverize ;  put  into  a 
teacup,  which  half  fill  with  boiling  water ;  stir  well ;  then 
fill  up  with  good  vinegar ;  use  every  half  hour  j  then,  one, 
two  and  four  hours,  as  recovery  progresses.  The  patient 
may  swallow  a  little  each  time.  Apply  one  ounce  each  of 
spirits  of  turpentine,  sweet  oil,  and  aqua  ammonia,  mixed, 
to  the  whole  of  the  throat,  and  to  the  breast  bone,  every 
four  hours,  keeping  flannel  to  the  parts. 

Scarlet  Fever. — As  soon  as  you  know  it  to  be  this, 
rub  the  whole  body  morning  and  evening  with  fat  bacon, 
slowly  and  thoroughly ;  apply  to  the  throat  a  poultice  of 
onions,  fried  in  fat;  sweet  oil  and  honey  simmered  to- 
gether, a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  is  also  good ;  gargle  the 
throat,  or  swab  with  strong  sage  tea,  with  a  little  sal- 
ammonia  and  honey. 

Measles. — This  disease  can  generally  be  detected  by 
redness  of  the  eyes,  running  at  the  nose,  and  a  hacking 
cough.  Care  should  be  taken  that  persons  with  these 
symptoms  should  not  take  cold.  Bathe  the  feet,  avoid  a 
current  of  air,  give  warm  toddy  or  saffron  tea.  If  there 
is  much  cough  give  freely  Cough  Syrup  No.  1  or  Jayne's 
Expectorant. 


58  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

WHOOPma  Cough.— Clothe  your  children  well,  and,  if 
in  winter,  put  flannel  next  the  skin ;  rub  the  throat,  breast 
and  spine  with  equal  parts  of  sweet  oil  and  turpentine  5 
give,  three  or  four  times  a  day,  a  teaspoonful  of  cough 
mixture  No.  1,  or  Jayne's  Expectorant. 

Sciatica,  or  Gout  of  the  Hip. — This  distressing 
disease  can  be  cured  in  the  following  manner :  Make  a 
bag,  a  quarter  of  a  yard  quare,  of  double  flannel,  fill  it 
half  full  of  hops,  then  throw  a  gill  of  ground  mustard  into 
a  gallon  of  boiliug  water ;  wring  from  this  water  the  hop 
bag  as  hot  as  possible  and  apply  to  the  part  affected, 
covering  with  thick  flannel  to  keep  in  the  heat  and  to  pre- 
vent the  clothing  from  getting  wet.  Do  this  as  often  as 
it  cools,  until  relieved ;  then  apply  the  liniment  for  neural- 
gia and  rheumatism  (on  this  page)  three  times  a  day, 
rubbing  in  well.  Then  take  as  much  quinine  as  the  sys- 
tem will  bear,  which  should  be  directed  by  a  physician ; 
keep  the  bowels  gently  open  with  Eochelle  salts ;  take  a 
nervine  to  induce  sleep ;  avoid  opiates  as  much  as  possi- 
ble ;  time  and  patience  will  accomplish  the  work. 

Inflammatory  Eheumatism. — A  poultice  of  stewed 
pumpkin  is  said  to  be  an  infallible  remedy  for  this  disease. 
Change  the  poultice  every  half  hour.  A  physician  says 
there  may  possibly  be  some  virtue  in  the  pumpkin,  but 
thinks  any  thing  that  will  hold  hot  water  will  do  as  well. 
The  hop  bag  prescribed  for  sciatica,  when  no  pumpkins 
can  be  had,  will  be  found  a  good  substitute. 

Liniment  for  Eheumatism  and  Neuralgia. — Take 
two  ounces  each  of  organum,  spirits  turpentine  and  spirits 
of  ammonia  5  one  ounce  each  of  olive  oil  and  laudanum, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  pulverized  gum  camphor ;  mix  thor- 
oughly, and  apply  two  or  three  times  a  day.  This  is  also 
an  excellent  remedy  for  sprains,  etc.,  in  horses. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  59 

Toe  Kails. — To  prevent  them  from  growing  into  the 
flesh,  drop  three  or  four  drops  of  hot  tallow  on  the  nail, 
close  to  the  part  effected ;  in  paring  the  nails  curve  them 
in  the  centre. 

Cramp. — Get  upon  your  feet  as  soon  as  possible;  if 
this  does  not  relieve,  wrap  the  limb  with  a  cold  wet  cloth. 

Ringworm. — Citron  ointment  is  the  best  remedy  for 
ringworm  or  any  watery  humour. 

Constipation  of  the  Bowels. — Instead  of  active 
purgatives,  take  a  dessert  spoonful  of  flax  seed  in  half  a 
tumbler  of  water,  three  times  a  day,  and  use  a  syringe 
with  cold  water.    This  treatment  will  relieve  piles. 

IiTervous  Chills. — ^A  jug  of  hot  water,  wrapped  in  a 
blanket,  applied  to  the  feet  at  night. 

Dyspepsia. — One  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  cinnamon 
before  each  meal  has  been  known  to  cure.  Hard  cider  is 
also  a  valuable  remedy. 

Coal  Oil. — ^A  surgeon  in  the  army  says  that  what  water 
is  to  a  wound  in  an  inflamed  state,  coal  oil  is  in  a  sup- 
purating state ;  it  dispels  flies,  expels  vermin,  sweetens 
the  wound,  and  promotes  a  healthy  granulation.  It  is 
also  said  to  be  a  good  exterminator  of  bed-bugs. 

Dysentery  or  Flux. — ^This  disease  requires  different 
treatment  from  common  diarrhea,  and  is  easily  distin- 
guished, as  the  passages  are  smaller  and  composed  of 
mucous  and  blood.  Small  doses  of  calomel  and  opium, 
every  three  or  four  hours,  as  the  case  indicates,  using  at 
the  same  time  injections  of  flax-seed  or  slippery  elm  water, 
cold,  with  from  six  to  ten  drops  of  laudanum  added,  ac- 
cording to  age.    At  the  same  time  apply  to  the  bowels 


60  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

flannel  cloths  wrung  from  hot  water,  covering  with  dry 
cloths  to  keep  in  the  heat  and  prevent  the  clothing  from 
getting  wet.  To  allay  thirst,  allow  them  to  dissolve  ice 
gradually  in  the  mouth.  No  solid  food  should  be  eaten. 
Browned  rice,  well  boiled,  thickened  milk,  or  farina  eaten 
with  cream  and  sugar,  is  the  best  food. 

The  following  recipe  has  been  effectual  in  advanced  and 
severe  cases : 

Flux  or  Dysentery. — Take  one  ounce  each  of  cara- 
way seed,  orange  peel  and  rhubarb,  one  pint  brandy, 
shake  well  and  let  stand  twelve  hours.  Dose  for  child  two 
years  old,  one  teaspoonful  every  two  hours  till  relieved ; 
adult,  dessert  spoonful. 

Cure  for  Felon. — Take  half  a  pint  of  common  soft 
soap,  and  stir  into  it  air  slaked  lime  till  it  is  of  the 
consistency  of  putty ;  make  a  muslin  bag,  fill  it  with  this 
composition,  and  insert  the  finger,  and  a  cure  is  certain. 
This  is  a  domestic  application  that  any  house-keeper  can 
apply  promptly. 

The  "  Journal  of  Medicine''  gives  the  following  remedy 
for  felons :  As  soon  as  the  parts  begin  to  swell  get  the 
tincture  of  lobelia,  and  wrap  the  part  affected  with  a  cloth 
saturated  thoroughly  with  the  tincture,  and  the  felon  is 
dead.  An  old  physician  says  he  has  known  it  to  cure  in 
scores  of  cases,  and  it  never  fails  if  applied  in  season. 
The  remedy  is  easy  of  access,  and  the  cost  is  trifling.  Try 
it,  ye  sufferers. 

Small  Pox. — To  prevent  the  face  from  being  marked, 
just  before  the  eruption  appears,  rub  three  or  four  drops 
of  croton  oil  on  the  chest ;  this  attracts  the  eruption,  and 
prevents  it  from  injuring  the  face  and  eyes. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  61 

Tapeworm. — ^Eat  freely  of  slippery  elm  bark.  Pumpkin 
seeds  are  saved  and  sold  in  Syria  on  account  -of  their 
value  in  exterminating  all  kinds  of  worms. 

Warts  and  Corns  can  be  cured  by  making  a  salve  of 
gum  arable  and  potasb ;  soak  and  pare  them ;  apply  the 
salve  several  nights,  and  they  will  soon  pull  out. 

To  Eemove  Freckles. — Take  powdered  saltpetre  and 
apply  it  to  the  parts  affected,  by  the  finger,  moistened  and 
fepped  into  the  powder.  This  is  the  whole  proceeding. 
When  properly  done  and  judiciously  repeated,  it  will  re- 
move all  the  freckles  from  the  face. 

Nightmare  can  be  much  relieved  by  going  to  bed 
supperless,  or  by  taking  half  a  Dover's  powder  on  going 
to  bed,  with  a  jug  of  hot  water  to  the  feet. 

Frosted  Feet. — Bathe  with  spirits  of  turpentine  be- 
fore the  fire ;  then  rub  with  honey. 

Pile  Salve. — Carbonate  of  lead,  half  ounce  j  sulphate 
of  morphia,  fifteen  grains  j  stramonium  ointment,  one 
ounce;  olive  oil,  twenty  drops.  Mix  and  apply  three 
times  a  day,  or  as  occasion  and  pain  may  require. 

Gympson  Salve. — This  is  valuable  for  sores  and  burns. 
The  leaves,  when  green,  are  the  best  application  that  can 
be  made  to  old,  angry  sores,  producing  suppuration  and 
restoring  a  healthy  condition.  The  leaves  should  be  rolled 
and  thrown  into  scalding  water,  and  squeezed  out  like 
cabbage  leaves,  for  a  blister.  Put  them  on  thick  and 
change  three  times  a  day. 

To  make  the  Salve. — Gather  half  a  peck  of  leaves 
before  frost,  chop  fine,  add  to  this  a  pound  of  fresh  lard, 


62  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

stew  in  an  earthen  crock,  strain  and  put  away  for  use. 
Throw  the  crock  away. 

Elder-Blossom  Sal  ye. — Stew  the  flowers  in  butter 
before  it  has  been  salted.  This  is  a  delicate  healing  salve 
for  the  lips,  nose  or  hands. 

Sore  or  Weak  Eyes. — Pure  salt  and  water  is  a  good 
remedy  in  this  disease,  for  men,  women  and  animals. 

Miasma. — To  prevent  fevers  and  ague  in  miasmatic 
localities,  build  a  fire  in  the  common  sitting  room  morn- 
ing and  evening  j  also  avoid  going  out  to  work  before 
breakfast. 

Debility. — There  is  nothing  better  as  a  tonic  than 
pure  spirits  made  very  bitter  with  chamomile  flowers. 

BATHTNa. — ^There  is  nothing  more  invigorating  than 
sponging  the  body  every  morning,  on  rising,  summer  and 
winter,  with  cold  or  tepid  water,  rubbing  the  body  dry 
with  a  coarse  towel.  This  will  effectually  prevent  colds. 
Sponging  the  body  with  tepid  salt  water,  and  rubbing 
dry  has  been  known  to  cure  the  dropsy,  after  tapping  had 
failed.  "No  one  should  take  a  cold  bath  when  very  warm, 
or  in  the  heat  of  the  day. 

Fresh  Air. — There  is  nothing  more  conducive  to  health 
than  pure  air  and  exercise.  Food  does  not  become  nutri- 
tive until  the  lungs  are  filled  with  fresh  air.  Contagious 
diseases  lose  half  their  virulence  by  well  cleaned  and  ven- 
tilated rooms. 

Children. — If  you  would  have  them  healthy,  give 
them  plenty  of  clothing,  plenty  of  milk,  plenty  of  sleep, 
plenty  of  air  and  exercise }  put  them  to  bed  early  and  let 
them  wake  themselves.  Never  urge  them  to  eat  what 
they  don't  relish. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  63 

BiTiNa  THE  ^AiLS. — Tliis  habit  in  children  should  be 
broken  up  immediately,  by  dipping  the  fingers  in  a  solu- 
tion of  aloes,  or  some  other  disagreeable  substance,  as  it 
spoils  the  nails  and  injures  their  health. 

Teeth. — Parents  should  see  that  their  children's  teeth 
are  removed  as  soon  as  loose,  to  prevent  their  permanent 
teeth  from  coming  in  crooked. 

To  Whiten  the  Teeth — Pure  charcoal  and  honey 
whiten  and  preserve  the  teeth  from  decay,  and  purify 
the  breath.  «^ 

Inflammation  of  Throat  and  Lungs. — There  is  noth- 
ing more  soothing  than  slippery  elm  water,  sweetened 
with  honey  or  white  sugar.  Add  a  small  piece  of  ice  and 
lemon. 

Night  Sweats. — Drink  cold  sage  tea,  and  rub  the 
body  with  whisky  and  alum — an  ounce  to  a  quart. 

Hiccups. — This  distressing,  and  sometimes  dangerous, 
affection  has  been  cured  by  taking  occasionally  a  spoonful 
of  vinegar  with  as  much  salt  as  it  would  dissolve. 


FOOD  FOR^THE  SICK. 

There  is  one  thing  that  should  never  be  forgotten  by 
those  who  have  charge  of  the  sick,  that  life  (and  the  hor- 
rible suffering  of  death  by  starvation)  may  be  saved  by 
injections  of  beef  tea,  rice  soup,  or  thickened  milk.  This 
subject  is  too  often  overlooked  by  the  medical  faculty. 
Where  there  is  swelling  or  paralysis  of  the  throat,  or  in 
severe  cases  of  diptheria,  this  should  never  be  neglected. 
Stimulating  applications  to  the  stomach  often  afford  great 
relief  where  there  has  been  long  fasting. 


64  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Beef  Tea. — Lean  beef,  sliced.  Put  a  sufficient  quan- 
tity into  a  porter-bottle  to  fill  up  its  body,  cork  it  loosely, 
and  place  it  in  a  pot  of  cold  water,  attaching  the  neck  by 
means  of  a  string  to  the  handle  of  the  vessel.  Boil  this 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours  j  then  i30ur  off  the 
liquor  and  skim  it. 

;pANADA. — White  bread,  one  ounce  j  ground  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  j  water,  one  pint.  Boil  them  until  well 
mixed,  and  add  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg.  Wine  or  but- 
ter may  be  added  if  desirable. 

Barley  Water. — Pearl  barley,  two  ounces  5  boiling 
water,  two  quarts.  Boil  to  one  half,  and  strain.  A  little 
lemon-juice  and  sugar  may  be  added  to  give  the  beverage 
a  pleasant  flavor.    To  be  freely  taken  in  febrile  disorders. 

Apple  W^ater. — Cut  two  large  apples  in  slices,  and 
l)Our  a  quart  of  boiling  water  on  them ;  or,  pour  the  same 
amount  of  water  on  roasted  apples.  In  two  or  three  hours 
strain,  and  sweeten  slightly. 

Isinglass  Jelly. — Isinglass,  one  roll.  Boil  in  one 
pint  of  water  until  it  is  dissolved.  Strain,  and  add  one 
l)int  of  sweet  milk.  Put  it  again  over  the  fire,  and  let  it 
boil  up. 

Toast. — Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
and  a  tablespoontul  of  white  sugar  5  let  it  come  to  a  boil ; 
toast  two  or  three  slices  of  dry  bread,  and  pour  the  cream 
over  it.    If  sweetening  is  not  liked,  omit  the  sugar. 

Baked  Eice. — Take  half  a  cup  of  rice  well  washed, 
add  to  this  three  pints  of  new  or  sweet  milk,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg  5  put  in  a  deep  dish 
and  set  in  the  oven  to  bake,  stirring  occasionally  until  the 
rice  is  thoroughly  cooked.    Eat  cold. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  65 

Eice  browned  thoroughly,  without  scorching,  and  then 
well  boiled,  and  eaten  with  nutmeg  and  sugar,  or  cream 
and  sugar,  is  a  very  palatable  and  safe  food  in  case  of 
bowel  complaint,  and  is  of  itself  a  remedy. 

ToinATOES  sliced  in  vinegar,  with  a  little  onion,  pepper 
and  salt,  are  often  much  relished  by  sick  persons. 

Pickled  Pork,  parboiled  and  well  broiled,  is  also  palat- 
able to  the  sick. 

Farina,  boiled  in  milk  and  eaten  cold  with  sweetened 
cream,  flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon,  is  good  for  sick  or 
well  persons. 

Diet. — A  change  of  diet  is  desirable  for  men  and  ani- 
mals, in  order  to  give  a  relish  to  what  they  eat.  Every 
house-keeper  should  vary  her  cooking  as  much  as  possible, 
as  sameness  destroys  the  appetite.  Good  living  is  as 
important  for  the  growth  of  children  as  for  animals ;  and 
every  farmer  knows  that  animals  starved  when  young 
seldom  recover  from  it.  Chemistry  demonstrates  that  we 
should  make  our  bread  of  unbolted  flour,  as  the  hull  ot 
the  wheat  alone,  furnishes  phosphorous  for  the  develop- 
ment of  brain,  and  obviates  the  necessity  of  using  cathar- 
tics. 

6 


ADDEI^DA. 


Marbled  Cake. — For  the  white  part,  take  ten  eggs, 
one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  white  sugar,  and  one  cup  of 
milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar 
mixed  in  the  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  two 
tablespoon  sful  of  warm  water.  For  the  dark  part,  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cuj)s  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  two  tablespoousful  cinnamon, 
two  tablespoousful  of  allspice,  and  two  tablespoonsfal  of 
cloves,  one  teasi30onful  black  pepper,  one  nutmeg,  four 
cu|)S  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar  mixed  in  the 
flour,  half  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoous- 
ful of  warm  water.  Beat  each  of  these  parts  until  thor- 
oughly mixed  j  then  drop  in  your  pan  alternate  spoons- 
ful of  black  and  white  in  stripes  or  rings.  Bake  care- 
fully. 

Jelly  Cake  is  made  of  any  kind  of  cake,  cup  or  sponge, 
baked  very  thin  in  pans  of  equal  size,  and  jelly  spread 
between  them.  You  can  add  as  many  layers  as  you 
choose. 

Coffee  Cake — yery  fine. — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
one  of  butter,  four  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup 
of  strong  cofl'ee;  beat  well  together,  then  add  half  a 
pound  of  raisins,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  well  washed 
and  dried,  one  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon, 
two  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  citron,  cut  fine;  two  large 
teaspoonsful  of  cream  tartar,  one  large  teasi)oonful  soda, 
dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Mix  thoroughly — bake 
well,  and  you  have  a  splendid  rich  cake. 


FAMILY     DIRECTOEY.  67 

Floating  Island. — Beat  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  with 
the  juice  of  four  lemons — sweeten  to  your  taste ;  stir  into 
a  quart  of  boiling  milk ;  then  pour  into  a  dish.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  put  on  the  top. 

To  Preserve  Strawberries. — This  fruit  is  too  ten- 
der to  can  and  look  well.  The  best  way  to  keep  them  is 
to  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pound  of 
fruit.  Weigh  your  fruit,  then  select  all  the  larger  berries 
from  the  smaller  and  imperfect  ones — mash  the  small  ber- 
ries and  add  the  sugar.  Let  them  boil  half  an  hour,  then 
squeeze  through  a  jelly  bag,  then  boil  again,  for  a  few 
minutes  and  take  off  the  scum;  then  add  the  large  ber- 
ries, being  careful  not  to  mash  them.  Let  them  boil 
slowly  thirty  minutes,  skim  out  carefully  and  spread  on 
a  large,  flat  dish,  pouring  back  all  the  juice ;  then  boil 
the  syrup  and  skim  till  reduced  to  a  thick  syrup.  Put  in 
cans  or  glass  jars  heated — pour  on  the  hot  syrup  and  seal. 

Wheat  Flour  Blanc  Mange. — Beat  up  six  table- 
spoonsful  to  a  thin  paste,  with  cold  milk,  and  stir  it  into 

* 

a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Flavor  with  lemon  peel  or  peach 
leaves,  boil  in  the  milk ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  cool  it 
in  a  mould. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream. — Two  quarts  of  milk  (cream 
when  you  have  it ;  j  three  tablespoonsful  of  arrowroot,  the 
whites  of  eight  eggs  well  beaten,  one  pound  of  powdered 
sugar.  Boil  the  milk,  thicken  it  with  the  arrowroot,  add 
the  sugar  and  pour  the  whole  ui)on  the  eggs.  If  you  wish 
it  flavored  with  vanilla,  split  half  a  bean,  and  boil  it  in 
the  milk. 

Lemon  Sherbet. — Dissolve  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar 
in  half  a  gallon  of  water ;  add  the  juice  of  ten  lemons  ; 
press  the  lemons  so  as  to  extract  not  only  the  juice  but 


68  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

the  oil  of  the  rind,  and  let  the  skins  remain  a  Trhile  in 
the  water  and  sugar ;  strain  through  a  sieve  and  freeze. 

French  Eolls,  or  Twists. — One  quart  of  luke-warHi 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  large  teacup  of  home- 
made yeast,  or  half  as  much  brewer's  yeast,  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  set  it  to  rise,  and  when  very  light 
work  in  one  egg  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Add 
flour  till  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Let  it  rise  again,  and  when 
very  light,  roll  out,  cut  in  strips  and  braid  it.  Bake 
thirty  minutes  on  buttered  tins. 

Sour  Dough. — When  a  batch  of  bread  is  sour,  let  it 
stand  until  it  is  very  light,  then  work  into  a  portion  of  it 
saleratus  dissolved  in  warm  water,  enough  to  sweeten  it, 
and  a  little  shortening,  and  mould  it  into  small  biscuits 
and  bake.  This  is  very  good,  and  many  persons  allow 
their  bread  to  turn  sour  for  this  pur^DOse. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. — Three  pints  of  milk,  ten 
heaping  table  spoonsful  of  sifted  Indian  meal,  half  a  pint 
of  molasses,  two  eggs ;  scald  the  meal  with  the  milk,  add 
the  molasses  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  in  the  eggs 
when  it  is  cool  enough  not  to  scald  them.  Put  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  ginger.  Tie  in  a  well-floured  pudding-bag, 
allowing  three  inches  room  for  the  swelling  of  the  pud- 
ding. Some  like  a  little  chopped  suet  added  to  the  above. 
Boil  from  four  to  five  hours. 

Loaf  Pudding.— When  bread  is  too  stale  to  eat,  put  a 
loaf  in  a  pudding  bag  and  boil  it  in  salted  water  an  hour  and 
a  half,  and  eat  it  with  pudding  sauce.    (No.  2,  on  page  10.) 

Pudding  Bag. — K  puddings  are  boiled  in  bags,  they 
should  be  dipped  in  boiling  water  and  rubbed  over  with 
flour  while  hot,  before  putting  in  the  pudding.  A  better 
way  is  to  have  a  tin  bucket  with  a  tight  fitting  lid,  put- 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  69 

ting  a  cloth  over  the  bucket  before  putting  on  the  lid,  to 
absorb  the  steam. 

BuRSTED  Apple. — Take  tart,  tender  apples,  pare,  core, 
and  quarter,  throw  them  in  cold  water.  If  nearly  ready 
for  tea,  put  a  clean  skillet  with  a  lid  on  the  fire,  with  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  let  it  get  as  hot  as 
possible  without  scorching;  lift  the  apples  from  the 
water  quickly,  and  put  on  the  lid ;  let  them  remain  on  a 
moderate  fire  until  done,  stirring  them  occasionally.  Take 
up  and  cover  with  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg. 

Apples  Whole. — Pare  and  take  out  the  core  with  an 
apple  corer ;  fill  the  space  with  sugar  and  butter,  adding 
a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon ;  bake  in  an  earthen  dish. 
This  is  very  nice  for  tea. 

Apple  MerinGtUE.— Pare,  core  and  stew  10  tart  apples 
in  a  very  little  water ;  season  as  for  a  pie,  and  put  in  a 
fruit  pie  dish,  into  a  cool  oven.  Beat  up,  meanwhile,  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  as  you  would  for  icing,  piling  it  on 
the  apple  like  rocks,  or  irregular,  avoiding  the  edge  of 
the  dish.  Return  it  to  a  warm  oven,  and  brown  macaroni 
color.  Slip  all  out  carefully,  by  aid  of  knife  or  spoon, 
into  a  China  dish,  and  serve  with  cream,  which,  if  you 
have  not,  make  a  custard  of  the  yellows,  flavored  with 
essence  of  Vanilla,  &c. 

Apple  Pudding,  in  Crust. — One  and  a  half  pints 
stewed  apples,  one  tea-cup  rich  cream,  quarter  pound  but- 
ter, four  eggs,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon  skin,  sugar  to  taste. 
Put  in  the  butter  while  the  apples  are  hot,  the  remainder 
when  cool.    Dried  apples  will  do. 

To  Stew  Pears. — Wash  and  leave  them  whole ;  add 
just  enough  water  to  cook  them  tender;  when  nearly 
done,  add  sugar  enough  to  make  a  rich  syrup. 


70^  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Cranberry  Sauce. — Pick  over  carefully,  and  wash ; 
add  a  very  little  water,  and  let  them  get  half  cooked  be- 
fore putting  in  the  sugar,  which  should  be  pound  for 
pound.  If  wanted  to  take  the  place  of  preserves,  put, 
while  hot,  in  tea-cups  or  bowls.  When  needed,  turn  out 
on  a  jelly  dish. 

Baked  Custard. — Whites  and  yolks  of  five  eggs,  four 
tablespoonsful  flour,  one  pint  milk,  salt  j  beat  this  light, 
then  bake. 

Cinnamon  Eolls. — rif  you  have  some  pastry  left  when 
making  x)ies,  take  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut,  roll  out 
thin,  and  put  a  teasi^oonful  of  cinnamon,  butter  and  sugar, 
well  mixed,  in  the  centre ;  roll  up  and  turn  up  the  end 
slightly  to  keep  the  syrup  from  running  out ;  then  bake 
a  light  brown. 

Cobblers  are  made  of  peaches,  apples,  or  any  kind  of 
fruit,  and  are  very  nice.  They  are  made  by  putting  in 
twice  as  much  fruit  as  for  ordinary  pies,  the  crust  also  a 
little  thicker,  adding  a  good  sized  lump  of  butter  and 
plenty  of  sugar,  spice  to  your  taste,  and  bake  in  a  deep 
dish,  to  keep  from  losing  the  juice. 

Boiled  Rice. — Soak  a  few  hours  in  salt  and  water, 
then  boil  or  steam  till  thoroughly  done.  Eat  with  pud- 
ding sauce  No.  2.  Eice  is  not  wholesome  unless  well 
cooked. 

Arrowroot  for  Children. — A  teaspoonful  added 
to  a  pint  of  milk,  is  of  great  value  when  children  are 
raised  by  hand.  It  will  often  check  diarrhea.  Soften 
the  arrowroot  with  a  little  water,  and  stir  into  the  milk 
when  boiling. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  71 

Blackberry  Syrup. — The  follo\Ying  is  the  recipe  for 
makiug  the  famous  blackberry  syrup.  !N"o  family  should 
be  Nvithout  it.  All  who  try  it  will  find  it  a  sovereign 
remedy  for  bowel  complaints :  "To  two  quarts  blackber- 
ry juice  add  half  ounce  each  of  powdered  nutmeg,  cinna- 
mon and  allspice,  and  quarter  ounce  powdered  cloves. 
Boil  these  together  to  get  the  strength  of  the  spices,  and 
to  preserve  the  berry  juice.  While  hot,  add  a  pint  of 
fourth  proof  pure  French  brandy,  and  sweeten  with  loaf 
sugar.  Give  a  child  two  teaspoonsful  three  times  a  day, 
and  if  the  disorder  is  not  checked,  add  to  the  quantity." 

Omelet. — Breiik  eight  or  ten  eggs  into  a  pan;  add 
pepper,  salt,  and  one  spoonful  cold  water ;  beat  them  up 
to  a  stiff  froth ;  meanwhile,  put  some  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  when  it  nearly  boils  put  in  the  eggs.  As  it 
fries,  take  up  the  edges,  that  all  may  be  properly  done. 
When  cooked,  double  it ;  serve  hot. 

Codfish  Balls. — Pick  up  as  fine  as  possible  a  tea- 
cup of  nice  white  codfish.  Freshen  all  night,  or  if  want- 
ed for  any  other  meal  than  breakfast,  from  the  morning ; 
scald  it  once,  and  drain  off  the  water ;  chop  and  work  it 
until  entirely  fine ;  put  it  in  a  basin  with  water,  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  eggs ;  beat  it  thorough- 
ly, and  heat  it  until  it  thickens,  without  boiling.  It  should, 
when  all  is  mixed,  be  about  a  quart.  Have  some  potatoes 
ready  j)repared  and  nicely  mashed;  work  the  fish  and 
potatoes  thoroughly  together  as  above,  make  it  in  flat 
cakes,  and  brown  both  sides.  This  is  a  very  nice  dish, 
as  all  who  have  tried  it  allow. 

Sandwiches. — Spread  nice  butter  over  a  loaf  of  fresh 
bread,  then  cut  it  with  a  sharp  knife  very  thin  indeed ; 
cut  a  slice  of  ham  or  dried  beef,  put  it  in  the  middle,  roll 


72  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

the  bread  over  it,  and  send  to  tlie  tea-table.    These  are 
delicate  and  convenient  for  lunch  or  a  pic-nic. 

To  Fry  Fresh  Fish.— They  should  never  be  cooked 
until  well  salted  for  several  hours — better  over  night. 
When  read}'  to  cook,  wash  well  and  wipe  dry ;  pepper 
and  roll  in  flour  or  corn  meal;  have  i)lenty  of  hot  fat; 
fry  slowly  a  dark  brown.  Fish  should  be  thoroughly 
cooked. 

Fish  to  Boil. — Prepare  as  for  frying;  stuff  according 
to  directions  given  for  stuffing ;  scav  up  carefully  in  a 
cloth ;  boil  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  accord- 
ing to  size,  adding  salt  to  the  water  if  not  previously  well 
salted.  Dress  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced  in  drawn 
butter,  or  celery  sauce. 

Baked  Fish. — Prepare  as  for  frying ;  stuff  as  for  boil- 
ing ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  in  the  pan,  flour  your 
fish  and  bake  moderately  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
Eat  with  drawn  butter  flavored  with  parsley. 

Salt  Fish. — Wash  well ;  then  soak  several  hours  in 
fresh  water — if  not  liked  very  salt,  soak  over  night. 
Mackerel  soaked  over  night,  then  hung  up  to  dry  a  few 
hours  and  -broiled,  and  dressed  with  melted  butter,  is 
very  nice. 

Smoked  Halibut,  sliced  like  dried  beef  is  very  nice 
for  tea,  breakfast  or  lunch. 

To  Stew  Chicken. — Cut  in  small  pieces,  chopping 
the  breast  in  two  ;  add  just  enough  water  to  cook  tender 
— add  pepper,  salt,  and  a  lump  of  butter.  When  nearly 
dry,  make  into  a  smooth  paste  a  large  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  stirred  into  a  tea-cup  of  cream  or  milk,  adding  a 
few  sprigs  of  parsley. 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  73 

To  Fry  Chicken. — If  your  chickens  are  not  very  ten- 
der, stew  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  twenty  minutes, 
adding  salt  and  pepper ;  when  about  dry,  take  up  your 
chicken  and  roll  it  in  flour,  then  put  a  cup  of  butter  or 
lard  on  a  shallow  pan  and  let  it  get  hot ;  then  put  in  your 
floured  chicken,  turn  and  brown  nicely.  When  ready  to 
serve,  take  up  the  chicken,  dredge  a  little  flour  in  the 
pan,  adding  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream.  Let  it  simmer  a 
few  minutes  and  take  up  in  a  gravy  bowl. 

To  Cook  Liver. — Slice  half  an  inch  thick ;  wash  and 
throw  into  scalding  water  a  few  moments  ;  drain,  add 
pepper  and  salt  and  roll  in  flour ;  have  a  pan  ready  with 
hot  lard;  fry  slowly  till  well  done,  and  brown;  if  liked 
with  gravy,  add  a  little  milk  and  flour. 

To  Stew  a  Beef  Heart. — Cut  in  thin  slices  across 
the  grain — add  just  enough  water  to  cook  done,  wi.th  half 
a  dozen  sliced  onions,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  to  season 
well.  Let  it  get  nearly  dry,  so  that  it  will  brown  a  little 
in  the  gravy.  Mutton,  pork  or  veal  chops  are  very  nice 
cooked  in  this  way. 

Oyster  Sauce. — Add  a  dozen  oysters  and  a  large 
lump  of  butter  to  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  and  a  few 
slices  of  choj)ped  celery  ,*  make  into  a  smooth  i)aste,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  flour ;  add  this  to  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
stir  in  and  simmer  twenty  minutes. 

To  Make  and  Fry  Mush. — Take  one  gallon  of  boiling 
water  and  a  wooden  spoon  or  stick,  stir  a  handful  of  meal 
at  a  time  into  it,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  beating 
out  all  the  lumps.  Mush  to  fry  should  be  made  quite 
stiff;  boil  over  a  slow  fire  for  an  hour.  When  thorough- 
ly cold,  cut  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  fry  brown  in 
a  few  spoonsful  of  sweet  lard.    Serve  hot. 


74  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Potatoes  to  Fry. — Slice  potatoes,  either  cooked  or 
uncooked,  very  thin ;  put  a  lump  of  butter,  or  fresh  lard 
into  a  hot  skillet ;  if  the  potatoes  are  uncooked,  let  the 
fat  get  quite  hot ;  lift  the  potatoes  from  clean  water ;  add 
salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  quickly  with  a  lid  5  stir  and 
cook  till  well  done.  If  the  potatoes  are  cooked,  add  a 
cup  of  milk  or  cream.     Serve  hot. 

]\Iashed  Potatoes. — Pare  and  boil  tender,  with  salt 
epough  to  season  them  j  when  done,  pour  off  the  water. 
Add  a  lump  of  butter,  mash  well,  then  add  a  cup  of  cream 

well  stirred  through. 

i 

Bakino  or  Boiling  Potatoes. — Their  quality  de- 
pends greatly  upon  not  being  over  cooked.  In  boiling, 
they  should  be  taken  from  the  water  as  soon  as  they  can 
be  penetrated  by  a  fork  5  steam  dry. 

Drawn  Butter. — Stir  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour  into 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter ;  add  five  tablespoonsful 
of  cold  water,  set  it  into  boiling  water  and  let  it  melt 
until  it  begins  to  simmer,  and  it  is  done.  Be  careful  to 
have  the  flour  well  mashed  in  the  butter.  This  is  a  nice 
dressing  for  fish,  with  hard  eggs  chopped  fine,  in  it.  It 
is  also  fine  for  boiled  fowls. 

Parsley  gives  a  fine  flavor  to  soups,  stewed  chicken, 
or  hashed  in  gravy  for  steaks  or  fish. 

Celery  Sauce. — Take  a  large  bunch  of  celery,  cut  it 
fine,  and  boil  it  till  soft,  in  a  pint  of  water ;  thicken  it 
with  butter  and  flour,  and  season  it  with  salt,  pepper  and 
mace. 

Stuffing  or  Dressing. — Stuffing  for  poultry  is  made 
of  bread  and  butter,  an  egg,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley 
or  thyme,  mixed  together;  if  the  bread  is  dry,  it  should 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  75 

have  a  little  boiling  water  poured  on  it.  This  dressing  is 
suitable  for  fowls,  fish,  veal  or  lamb,  varying  the  season- 
ing to  suit  the  taste. 

Piccalilli,  or  Mixed  Pickle. — Take  anything  that 
can  be  jDickled,  such  as  onions,  sliced  cucumbers,  cab- 
bage, mangoes,  peppers,  squashes,  small  green  tomatoes, 
cauliflowers,  martenoes,  celery,  green  beans,  nasturtiums, 
radish-pods,  watermelon  rinds,  small  green  cucumbers, 
and  Chili  peppers.  Lay  them  in  salt  and  water,  with 
enough  turmeric  to  turn  them  yellow.  Let  them  stand 
twenty -four  hours,  stirring  frequently;  then  drain  and 
dry  them,  and  put  them  into  the  jars.  To  every  quart  of 
vinegar,  allow  a  tablespoonful  of  mustard- seed,  one  of 
turmeric,  a  handful  of  whole  black  pepper,  and  one  clove 
of  garlic.  Spice  to  your  taste  with  mace,  ginger,  cloves, 
red  pepper,  and  horseradish.  Boil  all  but  the  mustard- 
seed  in  a  bag  in  the  vinegar.  Let  the  vinegar  stand  till 
cold.  Boil  one  dozen  eggs  quite  hard ;  mash  them  in 
enough  sweet  oil  to  make  a  paste;  then  stir  it  in  the 
vinegar,  which  pour  over  the  pickles.  Put  one  handful 
of  salt  in  every  jar.  They  should  stand  three  days,  well 
tied  up,  when  they  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Pepper  Sauce. — Take  twenty-five  peppers  without 
seeds ;  cut  them  pretty  fine  ;  then  take  more  than  double 
the  quantity  of  cabbage,  cut  like  slaw ;  one  root  horse- 
radish grated,  one  handful  of  salt,  a  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful each  of  mustard-seed,  ground  cloves  and  allspice. 
Boil  enough  vinegar  to  cover  it,  and  pour  over  boiling 
hot,  mixing  it  well  through. 

Universal  Picexe. — To  three  quarts  of  vinegar,  half 
a  pound  of  salt,  one-eighth  pound  of  ginger,  half  an  ounce 
of  mace,  one  teaspoonful  of  Cayenne  pepper,  one  ounce  of 


76  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

mustard  seed  5  boil  these  witli  the  vinegar,  and  when  cold 
put  into  a  jar.  You  may  put  in  whatever  green  fruit  or 
vegetables  you  choose,  from  time  to  time. 

EaG  OR  Plum  Tomatoes. — To  one  gallon  jar  take  two 
tablespoonfuls  salt,  one  black  pepper  (whole),  one  cloves 
do.,  one  of  mustard,  one  red  pepper  the  size  of  an  egg ; 
mix  these  together  and  sprinkle  over  them,  layer  by  layer, 
in  the  jars ;  let  them  stand  three  or  four  days,  and  then 
pour  over  boiling  vinegar. 

To  Pickle  Green  Tomatoes.-^ Slice  one  peck  of 
green  tomatoes ;  take  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  six  table- 
spoonfuls  of  whole  cloves,  four  of  allspice,  two  of  salt, 
one  of  mace,  one  of  Cayenne  pepper  j  boil  the  vinegar 
and  spices  ten  minutes  ;  put  in  the  tomatoes  and  boil  all 
together  a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer  ;  when  cold,  put  in 
jars.    There  is  no  nicer  pickle. 

To  Keep  Apples  and  Pears. — Put  them  in  air-tight 
vessels,  and  place  them  in  the  cellar  in  a  temperature  be- 
tween 32  and  40.  In  this  way,  says  the  "  Horticulturist," 
these  fruits  may  be  preserved,  in  perfect  order  for  eating, 
all  winter. 

Another  ^Yay. — Wrapping  each  apple  or  pear  in  paper, 
answers  well  also. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — These  are  the  greatest  luxury  in 
the  way  of  vegetables  our  tables  can  offer  in  winter.  En- 
gage a  gardener,  in  whom  you  have  confidence,  to  bring 
them  at  the  proper  time  in  a  proper  state.  Let  them  be 
put  in  the  garret  of  a  house  which  has  a  furnace,  in  bar- 
rels or  boxes ;  let  them  be  uncovered  for  several  days, 
with  a  circulation  of  air  constantly  kept  up.  At.  the  end 
of  four  or  five  days  cover  them  with  newspapers,  if  the 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  77 

boxes  have  no  covers.  I  find  the  temperature  best 
adapted  to  them  is  60.  We  have  them  till  they  come 
again. 

Straw-MattinGt  may  be  cleaned  with  a  large  coarse 
cloth  dipped  in  salt  and  water,  and  then  wiped  dry  5  the 
salt  prevents  the  matting  from  turning  yellow. 

Silver  and  Plated  Ware  should  be  washed  with 
a  sponge  and  warm  soapsuds  every  day  after  using,  and 
wiped  dry  with  a  clean  soft  towel. 

•  Fainting. — Keep  the  head  low — apply  camphor  or 
volatile  salts  to  the  nose  ;  sprinkle  water  in  the  face. 
Give  a  little  brandy  and  water.  .  ' 

Croup. — Wring  a  linen  cloth — cotton  will  do,  but  linen 
is  preferable — out  of  cold  water,  fold  it  so  as  to  make 
several  thicknesses,  and  place  it  upon  the  child's  throat 
and  chest,  then  fold  a  dry  flannel  and  wrap  carefully  over 
it.  Warm  the  child's  feet — with  hot  stones  if  necessary 
— and  cover  with  plenty  of  bed  clothes  and  let  it  go  to 
sleep ;  you  cannot  i)erceive  when  it  wakes  that  it  has 
even  a  cold.    It  acts  like  a  charm. 

Bug  Poison. — Proof  spirit  one  pint,  camphor  two 
ounces,  oil  of  turpentine  four  ounces,  corrosive  sublimate 
one  ounce ;  mix. 

To  Eemove  Marks  from  a  Table. — K  a  whitish 
mark  is  left  on  a  table. by  carelessly  setting  on  a  pitcher 
of  boiling  water  or  hot  dish,  pour  some  lamp  oil  on  the 
spot,  and  rub  it  hard  with  a  soft  cloth  5  then  pour  on  a 
little  spirits  of  wine  or  cologne  water,  and  rub  it  dry  with 
another  cloth.  The  white  mark  will  thus  disappear,  and 
the  table  look  as  well  as  ever. 


78  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

Ink  Stains. — Oxalic  acid,  or  iodide  of  potassium  will 
remove  them.  Wash  immediately  to  prevent  rotting  the 
goods. 

To  Keep  Hams  in  Summer. — Take  down  in  the  spring 
before  flifes  appear  ;  wrap  in  thick  brown  paper  ;  put  in 
boxes  or  barrels  in  a  cool,  dry  place,  or  hang  up  in  a 
dark,  airy  cellar.    Watch  out  for  rats. 

To  Eenovate  Black  Silk. — Sponge  on  the  right 
side  with  warm  soapsuds  and  a  soft  black  cloth,  and  iron 
on  the  wrong  side  while  damp. 

To  Eestore  Yelyet. — Hold  the  wrong  side  over  boil- 
ing water  till  the  nap  rises,  then  turn  a  hot  iron  upside 
down  and  draw  the  wrong  side  over  till  perfectly  dry 
and  smooth. 

Ceiment  for  the  Tops  of  Bottles  or  Jars. — Take 
equal  parts  of  rosin  and  brick-dust  pounded  fine,  a  lump 
of  beeswax.  Stew  them  together,  and  keep  in  an  old  tin, 
melting  it  when  you  want  to  seal  your  bottles  or  jars. 

To  Stop  Cracks  in  Iron  Vessels. — Mix  wood  ashes 
and  salt  into  a  paste,  with  a  little  water  j  apply  them, 
whether  the  vessels  are  cold  or  hot. 

Cement. — Three  parts  ashes,  three  parts  clay,  and  one 
part  sand,  is  said  to  make  a  cement  as  hard  as  marble, 
and  impervious  to  water. 

EcoNOi^ncAL  Paint. — Skim  milk  two  quarts,  fresh 
slacked  lime  eight  ounces,  linseed  oil  six  ounces,  white 
Burgundy  pitch  two  ounces,  Spanish  white  three  pounds. 
The  lime  to  be  slacked  in  water,  exposed  to  the  air,  mix- 
i  ed  in  one-fourth  of  the  milk  ;  the  oil  in  which  the  pitch 
is  previously  dissolved,  to  be  added  a  little  at  a  time  5 


FAMILY     DIRECTORY.  79 

then  the  rest  of  the  milk,  and  afterwards  the  Spanish 
white.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  27  square  yards, 
two  coats,  and  the  expense  not  more  than  25  cents. 

PAiNTma  A  EooM. — Get  a  painter  to  mix  the  quantity 
of  paint  required.  Have  the  surface  you  intend  painting 
thoroughly  cleansed  from  grease  or  spots  j  stir  the  paint 
well,  and  you  can  proceed.  There  is  very  little  labor  in 
this,  and  often  may  be  done  to  advantage  by  a  woman. 
If  much  of  a  job  is  undertaken,  it  is  needful  to  have  oil 
and  turpentine  added. 

Hair  Eene^ver. — Everybody  should  know  that  the 
best  thing  yet  discovered  for  restoring  gray  hair  to  its 
original  color,  rendering  it  soft  and  pliable,  is  Hall's 
Sicilian  Vegetable  Hair  Eenewer. 

Beds  and  Bedding. — I  have  seen  families  who  seem 
to  have  most  of  the  comforts  of  life,  who  had  meager, 
sunken,  uncomfortable  beds.  If  straw  was  expensive  it 
might  be  excused.  Any  kind  of  a  tick,  if  clean,  weU 
filled  with  good  oat  straw,  makes  a  good  bed  for  summer, 
and  a  fine  foundation  for  a  feather  bed  in  winter.  Many 
families  are  scant  of  bed-clothing  because  the;y  sit  idle 
and  say  it  don't  pay  to  piece  up  old  calico  into  comforts ; 
while  the  good  housewife  does  it,  and  finds  these  old  com- 
forts lasting  six  or  eight  years. 

Directions  about  Coloring. — ^Always  use  clean  por- 
celain, tin,  brass  or  copper  kettles ;  goods  always  appear 
darker  when  wet.  Hold  up  to  the  light  and  look  through 
them.  That  will  generally  give  you  the  true  color.  To 
be  certain,  you  had  better  dry  a  snjall  piece  with  a  hot 
iron.  Always  try  a* small  piece  of  the  same  goods  before 
you  put  in  your  garment.    Have  plenty  of  water  to  stir 


80  FAMILY     DIRECTORY. 

your  goods  in,  as  that  will  not  affect  the  color.  The 
goods  will  absorb  all  the  dye  if  left  in  long  enough. 
ISTever  have  your  kettle  over  a  very  hot  fire.  No  goods 
should  be  boiled  hard ;  lift  and  stir  often  with  a  smooth 
stick.  Cotton  goods  will  not  color  any  shade  of  red  well. 
Yellow,  orange,  brown  and  black  are  best  for  cottons — 
using  the  following  preparation  for  all  excepting  that 
colored  with  annatto,  which  does  not  need  any  prepara- 
tion. 

To  Prepare  Cotton  Goods  for  Coloring.— Take 
a  handful  of  slacked  lime,  add  this  to  two  or  three  pails- 
ful  of  water,  stir,  put  in  the  goods,  handle  occasionally, 
and  in  about  two  hours  take  out  the  goods,  pour  off  the 
clear  liquor  from  the  lime  into  another  vessel,  add  to 
this  clear  liquor  two  quarts  of  milk  (if  for  a  Ml  dress), 
put  back  the  goods  into  this  lime  water  and  milk,  heat 
to  hand  heat,  handle  the  goods  in  this  one  half  hour, 
take  off  the  fire,  and  let  the  goods  steep  in  this  one  night, 
or  four  or  five  hours  during  the  day,  handling  occasion- 
ally J  take  out,  rinse  lightly,  hang  up  to  dry,  and  when 
dry  they  are  ready  to  dye. 

How  TO  HAVE  Good  Servants. — K  you  want  attach- 
ed servants,  be  an  attached  mistress.  Let  your  thought- 
fulness  show  itself  in  little  things.  Speak  courteously, 
not  curtly.  Spare  them  trouble,  and  thank  them  for  the 
courtesy  they  show  to  you.  Be  considerate,  but  not  in- 
trusive. Recognize  the  fact  that  servants  must  have  in- 
terests of  their  own,  some  occupation  which  affords  a 
relief  from  the  constant  strain  of  service  j  and  do  not 
pry  too  closely  into  their  concerns,  or  arrange  too  mi- 
nutely the  order  in  which  they  are  to  get  through  their 
business. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  184  165  8    ^ 


