J 


The 


Faulkner 
Cook  Book 


The 


Faulkner  Cook  Book 


I  consider  the  discovery  of  a  dish  vohich 
sustains  our  appetite  and  prolongs  our 
pleasures  as  afar  more  interesting  event 
than  the  discovery  of  a  star,  for  voe 
always  have  stars  enough. 

—  Henrion  de  Pensey. 


Published  for  the  Benefit  of 

The  Faulkner  Hospital  Aid  Association 

jamaica  plain,  mass. 

1914 


THE   UNIVERSITY    PRESS,    CAMBRIDGE,    U.  S.  A. 


CONTENTS 

Soups 1 

Fish 8 

Meats ■ .  13 

Vegetables 28 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings 32 

Eggs  and  Cheese 41 

Desserts :  • . .  49 

Pudding  and  Ice  Cream  Sauces 71 

Frozen  Desserts 73 

Breads  and  Muffins 77 

Cakes,  Cookies,  and  Gingerbreads     .........  90 

Chafing-Dish  Recipes 116 

Fruits,  Pickles,  and  Preserves 122 

Confectionery 136 

Beverages 139 

Sandwiches 142 

Miscellaneous 145 

Memoranda 146 

Index 153 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 

2  cups  of  butter,  packed  solidly  =  1  pound. 

4  cups  of  pastry  flour  =  1  pound. 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  =  1  pound. 

2%  cups  of  |P(^0^    |  sugar  =  1  pound. 

2  cups  of  finely  chopped  meat  "=  1  pound. 

1  square  of  Baker's  chocolate  =  1  ounce. 

3  teaspoons  =  1  tablespoon. 
16  tablespoons  =  1  cup. 

4  tablespoons  =  J^  cup. 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  =  1  ounce. 
4  tablespoons  of  flour  =  1  ounce. 

All  measurements  should  be  made  level  unless  otherwise  stated. 

"  No  rule  is  so  general,  which  admits  not  some  exception." 

—  Robert  Burton. 


THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


"Thirteen  at  table  is  a  number  to  be  dreaded  only  when  there  is  just  enough 
to  go  round  for  twelve." 

—  L'Almanach  des  Gourmands. 


SOUPS 

BAKED   BEAN   SOUP 

MISS    HELEN   T.    COMINS 

Boil  in  one  quart  of  milk  one  and  one-half  cups  of  mashed 
baked  beans  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  if  necessary  thicken  with  a  little  braided  flour.  Strain 
well  and  serve. 

SQUASH  SOUP 

MISS   HELEN   T.    COMINS 

One  cup  of  boiled  squash,  boiled  about  twenty  minutes  with 
one  quart  of  milk.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  dash  of 
nutmeg.  Braid  butter  the  size  of  a  nut  with  a  little  flour  to 
thicken.    Strain  well  and  serve. 

LENTEN  BROTH 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

Cook  for  two  hours  two  pounds  of  flounder  or  any  white  fish 
cut  up,  with  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  two  pieces  of  celery,  a 
bunch  of  herbs,  and  two  quarts  of  water.  Take  out  the  fish,  re- 
move the  bones  and  skin,  put  fish  back  again,  and  add  one  pint 
of  boiling  milk  mixed  with  flour  and  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
and  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Press 
through  strainer  and  serve  hot. 

i 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


NELLIE'S  TOMATO  BISQUE 

MRS.    NELSON   HOWARD 

Scald  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  one  heaping 
tablespoon  of  flour  wet  with  water,  and  one  sliced  onion,  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes.  Put  one  can  of  Campbell's  tomato  soup 
into  the  milk  about  five  minutes  before  serving  and  add  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper.    If  it  curdles  use  the  egg  beater. 

If  canned  tomato  is  used  cook  one-half  can  with  a  pinch  of 
soda  and  sugar  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain  and  add  to 
milk. 

WHITE  SOUP 

MRS.   WILLIAM  PRATT 

Scald  two  cups  of  milk  and  add  four  cups  of  chicken  broth  or 
veal  stock;  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour;  add  salt,  pepper, 
and  celery  salt  to  taste. 

WHITE  SOUP 

MRS.  HENRY   B.  CHAPIN 

Take  a  knuckle  of  veal  weighing  from  four  to  six  pounds,  six 
quarts  of  water,  a  pint  bowl  of  macaroni,  one  onion,  one  turnip, 
a  little  mace,  salt,  and  white  pepper,  and  boil  six  hours  in  a  closely 
covered  pot.  Strain.  Beat  three  eggs  very  light  and  stir  with 
one-half  cup  of  cream  into  the  soup  when  scalding  hot. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

MRS*  WINTHROP   C.    DURFEE 

Fry  to  a  light  brown  one  slice  of  finely  chopped  pork,  stirring 
to  prevent  burning.  Fry  light  brown  one  medium-sized  onion, 
chopped;  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Have  boiling  two 
large  potatoes,  sliced  very  thin,  and  when  tender  drain  well  and 
add  to  fried  onion  with  one  quart  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  one  can  of  corn.  Boil  five  minutes.  Add  four  crackers  which 
have  been  split  and  soaked  in  cold  milk,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
butter.    When  heated  again,  serve. 


SOUPS  3 

CREAM   OF  BEET  SOUP 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

« 

Scrub  well  and  cook  without  cutting  two  dark-red  beets.  When 
tender  drop  into  cold  water  for  two  or  three  minutes,  then  remove 
skin  and  rub  through  strainer.  Cook  one  tablespoon  of  butter 
with  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion  for  five  minutes;  add  one 
tablespoon  of  flour  and,  when  boiling,  pour  on  slowly  one  pint  of 
hot  white  stock;  add  four  pepper  corns,  one  blade  of  mace,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  simmer  ten  minutes.  Add  one  pint  of  hot 
milk,  strained  beet,  and  one  cup  of  cream. 

PEA  SOUP 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Cover  two  cups  of  split  peas  well  and  cook  at  least  four  hours. 
Put  two  slices  of  bacon  and  one  onion  through  the  meat  chopper 
and  add  to  peas  when  put  on  stove,  also  one  bay  leaf.  Cook 
until  half  an  hour  before  serving,  then  strain  through  sieve. 
Heat  one  pint  of  milk  and  add  just  *bef ore  serving,  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

BLACK  BEAN   SOUP 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Soak  one  quart  of  black  beans  over  night  in  six  quarts  of  water, 
and  boil  in  same  water  for  six  hours.  After  boiling  two  hours  add 
beef  bones  or  any  meat,  one  onion,  one-half  carrot,  and  a  large 
cup  of  rice.  Just  before  serving  add  one-half  pint  of  claret,  one- 
half  lemon,  sliced,  and  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs. 

BLACK  BEAN   SOUP 

MISS   KATHARINE    R.    WENDELL 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  beans  if  you  do  not  soak  them  over 
night,  one  pint  if  you  do.  One  teaspoon  of  summer  savory,  one 
onion,  a  small  bit  of  pork.  Boil  with  a  beef  bone,  turkey  or  chicken 
bones.  Put  in  soup  dish  one  sliced  lemon,  four  eggs,  boiled  hard 
and  sliced,  one-half  tumbler  of  wine,  and  one-half  large  cup  of 
tomato  catsup. 


THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


CLAM  SOUP 

MRS.    WILLIAM   D.    HOWLAND 

Get  three  pints  of  clams  with  all  the  liquor  the  fishman  will 
give.  Remove  the  soft  parts  and  keep  them  intact.  Take  the 
snouts  and  chop  them,  then  put  them  on  to  boil  with  the  soft 
parts  and  liquor.  As  soon  as  any  scum  rises  skim  it  off.  First  let 
it  boil  hard,  then  put  it  back  on  the  stove  and  let  simmer  about 
half  an  hour,  taking  care  that  the  soft  parts  do  not  break.  Put 
in  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

In  a  double  boiler  heat  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  milk.  Take  a 
little  of  the  cold  milk  in  a  cup  and  stir  in  slowly  a  tablespoon  of 
flour,  making  a  smooth  paste.  Pour  this  into  the  milk  and  let 
simmer.  Just  before  serving  strain  the  clams  and  put  the  liquor 
on  to  come  to  a  boil  again.  Then  pour  the  liquor  into  a  hot 
tureen,  and  just  before  serving  pour  in  the  hot  milk. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

MRS.    H.    O.    HOFMAN 

4  quarts  of  water  13^  carrots 
3  or  4  turnips                                   2  onions 

5  or  6  leeks,  if  you  have  them      5  or  6  large  potatoes 

Cook  for  four  hours,  then  pass  through  a  colander.  Thicken 
with  tapioca. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

MRS.    H.    DE   FOREST    LOCKWOOD 

3  pints  of  skinned  tomatoes  3  pints  of  sliced  okras 

1  gallon  of  water  1  onion,  sliced  very  fine 

Irish  potatoes,  sliced  Corn  cut  from  the  cob 

Handful  of  parsley  Thyme,  celery,  rice,  pepper,  and 

salt 

Thicken  with  brown  flour  rubbed  with  butter. 

Be  sure  to  salt  while  it  is  boiling. 

Put  the  water,  okra,  and  tomatoes  on  to  boil  two  and  a  half 
hours  before  needed,  and  add  the  other  vegetables  according  to 
the  time  they  require  to  cook. 


SOUPS  5 

MUSHROOM   SOUP 

MRS.    ANDREW   J.    PETERS 

One  pound  of  mushrooms,  peeled  and  fried  in  butter  until 
brown.  Take  the  parings  and  boil  in  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
water  for  half  an  hour,  then  strain  and  add  two  tablespoons  of 
butter,  rubbed  with  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  one 
quart  of  hot  milk.  Boil  together  and  add  the  mushrooms,  chopped 
to  about  the  size  of  small  peas.    Season  to  taste. 

Whip  one  cup  of  cream,  and  after  putting  the  very  hot  soup 
into  very  hot  soup  plates,  put  some  cream  on  top  of  each  and 
serve. 

MUSHROOM   SOUP 

MRS.    CHARLES    HILL 

x/2  pound  of  mushrooms  1  quart  of  milk,  heated 

Small  piece  of  butter  A  little  cream 

Salt  and  pepper  to  season  well 

Cook  mushrooms  in  a  little  water  until  all  the  juice  is  out  of 
them.  Strain  and  add  to  the  hot  milk.  Just  before  serving  season, 
and  thicken  soup  with  a  little  flour  and  butter.  Add  a  few  whole 
small  mushrooms  and  serve. 


CREAM   OF   OATMEAL   SOUP 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Put  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  tablespoon  of  chopped 
onion  in  soup  kettle  and  shake  until  onion  is  slightly  browned. 
Draw  kettle  back  and  let  the  onion  soften.  Add  one  pint  of  cold 
cooked  oatmeal,  one  quart  of  milk,  one  bay  leaf,  two  whole  cloves, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Stir  until 
boiling  point  is  reached,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  reheat,  and 
pour  hot  into  tureen  over  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg. 

VELVET   SOUP 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Cook  one  quart  of  any  good  stock  with  one  cup  of  cream  and 
seasonings  to  taste.    Pour  boiling  hot  onto  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 


THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


beaten  with  one-half  cup  of  cream;  reheat  and  serve  as  soon  as  it 
reaches  boiling  point. 

CREAM   OF  CAULIFLOWER  SOUP 

BARONESS  VON   SCHOLLEY 

Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  three  tablespoons  of 
flour,  stir  well,  and  add  three  pints  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  cauli- 
flower has  been  boiled,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  twelve  whole  pepper 
corns,  and  several  sprigs  of  parsley.  Boil  half  an  hour,  then  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  add  the  half  head  of  cauliflower  which 
has  been  cooked  and  separated  into  small  flowerets.  Just  before 
serving  stir  in  one-half  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream. 

PALESTINE  SOUP 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Take  two  quarts  of  any  white  stock  or  liquor  in  which  fowl  or 
mutton  has  been  boiled,  and  boil  in  it  two  pounds  of  Jerusalem 
artichokes,  weighed  after  they  are  peeled,  four  large  onions,  a 
small  stick  of  celery,  and  two  lumps  of  sugar.  When  the  vegeta- 
bles are  perfectly  tender  rub  them  through  a  sieve,  let  the  soup 
boil  up,  and  stir  in  one-half  pint  of  cream,  or  milk,  and  an 
ounce  of  best  butter.  If  the  soup  is  not  thick  enough  mix  a 
little  corn  flour  with  the  milk  before  stirring  it  into  the  soup. 
Serve  with  bread  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  a  light  brown  in 
butter. 

CREAM   OF  CHEESE  SOUP 

MISS   E.    P.    RICE 

Bring  to  a  boil  two  cups  of  milk,  two  cups  of  white  stock,  and 
one  onion.  Strain;  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one 
tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed  together.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Add  one-half  cup  of  grated  country  cheese  and  one  egg,  well  beaten. 
Serve  at  once. 

CREAM   OF  LETTUCE   SOUP 

MISS   E.    P.    RICE 

Wash  two  heads  of  lettuce  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until 
hardest  part  is  soft.     Drain  and  cool.     Squeeze  out  water  and 


SOUPS 


chop  coarsely.  Saute  in  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  and  add  one 
quart  of  white  stock.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Boil  five  minutes  and 
add  one  cup  of  thick  cream.  Just  before  serving  add  shredded 
lettuce. 


FISH 

FINNAN  HADDIE 

MISS   KATHARINE    R.    WENDELL 

1  finnan  haddie  3^  pint  of  cream 

J4  pint  of  milk  Y%  teaspoon  of  grated  onion 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  and    A  little  paprika 

1  teaspoon  of  butter,  braided    J4  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard 
together  1  cup  of  grated  fresh  dairy  cheese 

Make  the  cream  sauce,  and  when  well  mixed  stir  in  the  cheese. 

Flake  the  finnan  haddie,  put  into  the  cream  sauce,  and  let  all 

come  to  a  boil.    Serve  on  thin  toast. 
This  is  a  delicious  chafing-dish  recipe. 

FINNAN  HADDIE.    New  York  Style 

S.    S.    B . 

Soak  fish  for  one  hour  in  milk  and  water  to  cover,  using  equal 
parts.  Drain,  rinse  thoroughly,  and  separate  into  flakes;  there 
should  be  two  cupfuls.  Cook  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  with  one 
tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  onion  for  five  minutes;  add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  each  of  milk  and  cream,  a  little  salt, 
and  one-third  teaspoon  of  paprika.  When  the  mixture  thickens 
add  the  flaked  fish  and  one-third  cup  of  canned  red  peppers,  cut 
in  strips.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  copper  platter,  or  any  baking 
dish,  With  cooked  macaroni,  pour  over  the  fish,  and  set  in  oven  for 
five  minutes.  Sprinkle  grated  cheese  over  the  top  and  put  platter 
under  gas  flame  until  cheese  is  melted. 

SALT  COD  FISH 

MRS.    EDWARD    L.    YOUNG,   JR. 

2  cups  of  picked  salt  fish  2  cups  of  potato 
2  beaten  eggs                                    Salt  and  pepper 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter        Cream  and  milk  to  moisten 
1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Mix  and  put  in  baking  dish  with  pieces  of  butter  on  top,  and 
bake  until  nicely  browned. 

8 


FISH 


ESCALLOPED  FISH 

MRS.    G.   E.   BRIGHAM 

Boil  a  four  or  five  pound  haddock  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Separate  fish  from  bones  and  break  into  very  small  pieces.  Put 
in  a  double  boiler  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  whole  onion.  When 
milk  boils  take  out  onion ;  thicken  milk  with  scant  one-half  cup  of 
flour  wet  with  extra  milk.  When  nearly  done  put  in  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  an  egg.  Cook  in  all  about  twenty  minutes.  When 
taken  from  stove  add  one  beaten  egg  to  sauce;  cool  sauce  slightly 
and  add  one-half  pint  of  cream;  add  fish,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Butter  baking  dish  well  and  put  in  layer  of  crumbs;  then  put  in 
fish  and  put  layer  of  crumbs,  moistened  with  melted  butter,  over 
the  top.    Bake  half  an  hour. 

MORUE  BISCAYENNE 

C.    M.    R. 

1  pint  of  salt  fish  1  cup  of  potatoes 

1  cup  of  tomato  sauce  1  small  onion,  sliced 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  1  tablespoon  of  flour 
1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley 

Cut  fish  and  potatoes  into  small  dice.  Fry  out  the  onion  in  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  then  the  tomato,  and  when  smooth  add  the 
fish  and  potato,  then  the  parsley.  Let  simmer  in  a  casserole  for 
one  hour  or  more. 


COD  ROE  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Mash  the  roe  and  boil  for  fifteen  minutes.  When  perfectly  firm 
put  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  over  it  the  following 

Dutch  Sauce 

Mix  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  fine  flour  with  two  tablespoons  of 
cold  water;  stir  it  into  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  (or  liquor  in 
which  the  roe  was  cooked)  in  a  clean  saucepan.  Stir  over  the  fire 
until  properly  thickened,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  broken  in  bits,  and,  when  well  mixed,  the  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon  or  one  teaspoon  of  vinegar.     Stir  in  carefully  the 


io  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

beaten  yolk  of  one  or  two  eggs  and,  having  stirred  quickly  for 
five  minutes  over  a  slow  fire,  pour  over  the  roe  and  serve.  Parsley 
sauce  may  be  used  instead  of  the  above.  Make  it  the  same  way, 
substituting  chopped  parsley  for  eggs. 

FILLETS   OF  COD.    "Very  Good" 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Have  slices  nearly  an  inch  thick  cut  from  the  middle  of  the  fish. 
Sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  let  stand  for  one  hour,  then 
dry  in  a  cloth,  dip  in  egg  and  then  in  finely  sifted  bread  crumbs, 
with  plenty  of  pepper  and  salt  and  a  pinch  of  dried  and  sifted 
parsley.  Have  ready  some  good  frying  fat,  boiling  hot,  and  fry 
the  fillets  in  a  wire  basket,  as  they  require  to  be  done  quickly  and 
to  be  covered  with  fat. 

FRIED   FILLETS   OF  FISH 

MISS    H.   J.    PEARCE 

Marinate  the  fillets  by  letting  them  lie  in  a  mixture  of  oil, 
salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  and  chopped  parsley.  Take  the  fillets 
from  the  marinade;  roll  them  first  in  flour,  then  in  egg,  then  in 
white  bread  crumbs.  Fry  them  to  a  lemon  color  in  smoking-hot 
fat.  Serve  with  pieces  of  lemon  or  with  tartar  sauce.  Prepare 
the  fillets  just  before  frying.  Pieces  of  halibut  may  be  used  about 
an  inch  thick,  but  will  of  course  take  longer  to  cook. 

TOMATO   SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  HALIBUT 

MISS   H.   J.    PEARCE 

Make  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  one  slice  of  onion,  one- 
half  cup  of  water,  cloves,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  pour  on  one 
teaspoon  of  butter  and  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  stirred  to- 
gether. Keep  hot.  Pour  part  of  finished  sauce  on  fish  and  bake 
half  an  hour.    Take  skin  off  fish,  pour  on  rest  of  sauce,  and  serve. 

FILLETS   OF  HALIBUT 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

Cover  fillets  with  French  dressing  and  allow  to  stand.  Drain 
and  spread  with  well-seasoned  hot  mashed  potatoes.     Put  to- 


FISH  1 1 

gether  in  pairs,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Serve  with  the  following 

Sauce 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour 
and  one-half  cup  each  of  stock  (made  from  fish  bones)  and  cream. 
Boil  for  one  minute  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one-half  tablespoon 
of  finely  chopped  onion,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  add 
with  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  olives. 

BOUILLABAISSE 

C.    M.    R. 

1  pound  of  boiled  cod  fish,  cut  in  1  cup  of  strong  stock 

small  pieces  1  cup  of  canned  tomato 

1  pint  of  oysters  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley 

1  slice  of  onion  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

2  slices  of  lemon  1  tablespoon  of  flour 

1  glass  of  Sherry  wine 

Put  butter  in  deep  frying  pan  and  add  onion,  flour,  and  stock, 
then  fish  and  soft  part  of  oysters.  Add  lemon,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Cook  hard  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  just  before  serving  add  parsley 
and  wine. 

MOLDED   SALMON 

MRS.    C.    L.    D.    YOUNKIN 

1  can  of  salmon ;  drain,  wash,  flake     2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
Yz  tablespoon  each  of  mustard    Yolks  of  3  eggs 
and  salt  1  cup  of  thin  cream 

J4  cup  of  vinegar 

Cook  until  it  thickens  and  add  two-thirds  tablespoon  of  gran- 
ulated gelatine,  soaked  in  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water.  Mix  in 
salmon  and  mold.    Serve  with  the  following 

Dressing 

Yl  pint  of  cream,  whipped  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar 

Yl  teaspoon  of  salt  A  little  paprika 

Mix,  and  fold  in  one  cucumber,  pared  and  chopped. 


12  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

SCALLOPED   OYSTERS 

MRS.    WINTHROP    C.    DURFEE 

One  pint  of  oysters,  drained.  Strain  the  liquor  and  add  enough 
water  to  make  one-half  pint.  Salt  to  a  sea  flavor  and  set  where 
it  will  heat.  Mix  dry  one  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  one  saltspoon 
of  mace  with  a  heaping  half  pint  of  finely  rolled  cracker  crumbs. 
Melt  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  stir  into  the  crumbs.  Put  the 
crumbs  and  oysters  in  layers  in  a  shallow  buttered  baking  dish, 
having  crumbs  on  top ;  pour  over  the  liquor  and  bake  until  brown. 

VOL-AU-VENT   OYSTERS 

MISS    KATHARINE    R.    WENDELL 

1  solid  quart  of  picked  oysters       1  quart  of  cream 

1  bay  leaf  Small  piece  of  butter 

Paprika  and  salt  to  taste 
Parboil  oysters  and  drain  in  colander.  Put  cream  in  double 
boiler  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  grated  onion.  Mix  with  the 
butter  one  large  dessertspoon  of  arrowroot,  to  thicken.  Let  all 
come  to  a  boil  and  put  in  pastry  mold.  Be  sure  the  pastry  mold 
is  very  hot. 

DEVILED   SAUCE  FOR  SARDINES 

MRS.    H.    B.    CHAPIN 

Put  in  saucepan: 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  mus- 
4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  tard 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar 

Pinch  of  salt 
Mix  well  over  fire,  beating  all  the  time  for  ten  minutes,  when  it 
will  be  of  the  consistency  of  Mayonnaise;  then  add  a  dash  of 
boiling  water,  making  it  like  thick  cream.    Put  sardines  on  toast 
and  pour  sauce  over  them. 

See  also  recipes  for  Chafing  Dish  and  Croquettes. 


MEATS 

11 A  man  is,  in  general,  better  pleased  when  he  has  a  good  dinner  than  when 
his  wife  speaks  Greek." 

MARYLAND   CHICKEN 

MRS.    ANDREW   J.    PETERS 

1  chicken  or  a  parboiled  fowl         4  good-sized  slices  of  fat  bacon 

1  tablespoon  of  flour  1  gill  of  hot  water 

3/2  pint  of  rich  cream  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Prepare  chicken  cut  for  frying.  Heat  frying  pan  and  put  into  it 
the  bacon.  When  essence  is  all  extracted  add  chicken,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  pepper  only.  When  chicken  is  browned  and  done 
as  it  should  be,  remove  from  pan,  then  add  hot  water  and  sift  in 
flour,  stirring  all  the  time.  Add  cream,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  allow  to  boil  a  few  minutes.    Serve  with  the  following 

Mush 

Take  about  one-half  pint  of  meal  and  thin  with  water  to  the 
consistency  of  batter  cakes,  adding  a  little  salt  and  frying  brown 
on  the  griddle  with  a  generous  quantity  of  lard.  The  cakes  should 
be  put  on  the  platter,  the  fried  chicken  laid  upon  them,  and  the 
gravy  served  in  a  gravy  boat.  The  mush  cakes  and  cream  gravy 
may  or  may  not  be  used,  as  desired. 

BRAISED   FOWL 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Truss  a  fowl  as  for  roasting.  Stuff  the  crop  with  good  sausage 
meat.  Lay  slices  of  bacon  over  the  breast  and  put  in  a  braising 
pan  with  as  much  good  stock  as  will  reach  halfway  up  the  legs, 
two  onions,  and  a  small  bundle  of  sweet  herbs.  Let  it  stew  very 
gently  until  perfectly  tender,  then  take  it  up,  remove  bacon  from 
the  breast,  and  keep  warm  while  removing  the  fat  from  the  gravy. 
Reduce  the  gravy  about  one-half  by  boiling  without  the  lid  of  pan. 
Brush  over  the  breast  of  the  fowl  with  good  glaze ;  pour  the  gravy 
round  and  serve. 

13 


14  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

DEVILED  FOWL 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

The  legs  of  either  roasted  or  boiled  fowl  are  suitable.  Score  the 
flesh  deeply  and  coat  thickly  with  the  following 

Mixture 

Melt  one  ounce  of  butter;  mix  with  it  one  teaspoon  of  chutney, 
a  little  cayenne,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Put  the  legs  on  the  grid- 
iron over  a  slow  fire,  taking  great  care  that  they  do  not  burn. 
Cook  slowly  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  turning  them  very  often. 
Remove  from  gridiron  and  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  each. 
If  desired  very  hot  a  little  cayenne  should  be  shaken  over  them. 

CROQUETTES 

MRS.  H.  DE   FOREST   LOCKWOOD 

One  cup  of  veal,  chicken,  halibut,  or  salmon.  One  tablespoon 
of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour  cooked  together  in  a  sauce- 
pan. When  smooth  add  one  cup  of  fresh  milk  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Then  add  one  teaspoon  of 
butter  and  stir  until  like  cream.  When  it  boils  add  meat.  When 
cold  drop  from  a  spoon  into  sifted  cracker  crumbs  and  form  with 
a  knife  into  croquettes ;  dip  into  beaten  egg  (two  for  this  amount) 
and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  again,  being  sure  that  every  part  is 
covered  or  they  will  burst.  Fry  in  hot  lard.  Can  be  kept  several 
hours  before  frying. 

JAMHALAYA  FOWL 

MRS.    T.   W.    TUCKER 

1  fowl  }/i  pound  of  lean  ham  y%  pint  of  rice 

1  level  teaspoon  of  salt  1  saltspoon  of  pepper 

Have  fowl  prepared  as  for  fricassee,  put  it  into  a  stew  pan,  and 
add  one  quart  of  boiling  water;  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  three 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Wash  the  rice,  sprinkle  it  over  the  chicken, 
add  the  salt  and  the  ham,  chopped  fine,  and  cover  the  pan,  cook- 
ing slowly  until  the  rice  swells  and  absorbs  the  water,  about  half 
an  hour.  Put  the  chicken  in  the  middle  of  the  platter,  covering 
carefully  with  the  rice,  and  serve. 


MEATS  1 5 


CHICKEN  EN   CASSEROLE 

MRS.    CHARLES   H.    SWAN 

Cut  two  small  young  chickens  in  pieces  for  serving,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  brush  with  melted  butter.  Bake  in  casserole 
dish  twelve  minutes.  Parboil  one-half  cup  of  carrots,  cut  in  strips ; 
drain  and  fry  with  one  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  onion  and 
four  thin  slices  of  bacon,  cut  in  narrow  strips.  Add  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  brown  sauce  and  two-thirds  cup  of  potato  balls.  Add 
to  chicken  with  three  tablespoons  of  Sherry;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.    Cook  in  moderate  oven  until  chicken  is  tender. 

CHICKEN  AND   PINEAPPLE   GLACE 

MISS   MARGARET   MORSE 

Take  the  breasts  of  young  chicken  and  fry  in  butter  twenty 
minutes.  Slice  Dole's  Hawaiian  pineapple  in  halves  and  fry  in 
butter.  Add  a  little  chicken  soup  to  the  pan  gravy  and  boil  five 
minutes.  Cut  the  chicken  breasts  in  three  parts  and  serve  each 
on  a  half  slice  of  pineapple  in  deep  platter  with  the  syrup  poured 
over  it. 

CHICKEN  A  LA   GAINSBOROUGH 

MISS   ELIZABETH   B.    COMINS 

Place  the  pieces  of  a  cut  fowl  in  a  large  frying  pan  or  the  bot- 
tom of  a  kettle ;  cover  with  water  in  which  is  a  small  sliced  onion, 
a  number  of  bay  leaves,  and  salt.  Let  the  meat  cook  slowly  until 
tender,  about  two  hours.  Take  care  that  it  is  always  covered  with 
water.  When  tender  remove  the  skin  from  all  the  pieces  except 
the  drumsticks,  discarding  these  if  an  especially  dainty  dish  is 
desired.  Remove  the  breasts  from  the  bones,  cut  them  into 
large,  solid  pieces,  and  spread  all  the  portions  with  butter;  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs  and  broil  until  brown.  Place  symmetri- 
cally on  a  platter  and  pour  carefully  around,  not  over  them,  a 
rich  brown  sauce  made  from  the  water  in  which  the  fowl  has 
been  boiled,  adding,  after  it  is  strained,  a  wineglass  of  Sherry. 
Garnish  with  parsley  or  delicate  celery  tips. 


1 6  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

MOLDED  CHICKEN 

L.    C. 

1  medium-sized  can  of  chicken  or  1  pound  of  cold  cooked  chicken 

1  cup  of  cold  water  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Dissolve  one  tablespoon  of  gelatine  and  heat  with  the  above  in- 
gredients. Slice  one  hard-boiled  egg  and  one  lemon,  and  garnish 
mold.  Put  chicken  into  mold  and  chill.  Serve  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing  or  any  other  sauce. 

SPICED   BEEF 

L.    C. 

3  pounds  of  beef  2  quarts  of  water 

2  medium-sized  onions  4  bay  leaves 

1  tablespoon  of  salt  4  or  5  whole  white  peppers 

Boil  slowly  about  four  hours.  Remove  and  chop  meat  fine  in 
chopping  tray.  Add  one  teaspoon  each  of  clove,  cinnamon,  mace, 
allspice,  and  nutmeg,  a  dash  of  pepper,  three  cups  of  the  liquid, 
and  salt  to  taste.    Put  into  a  quart  mold,  chill,  and  serve. 

BEEF  LOAF 

MISS   B.    S.    FORBES 

1  pound  of  raw  beef  and  M  pound     3^  teaspoon  of  onion  salt 
of  fat  salt  pork,  put  through     1  egg,  well  beaten 
the  chopper  Few  grains  of  pepper 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  J4  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 

J4  cup  of  cold  water 
Mix  thoroughly.    Pack  into  small  buttered  bread  pan  and  bake 

two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 
This  serves  six  people. 

BEEF  JELLY 

Two  pounds  of  beef,  also  a  small  piece  of  shin  bone.  Cover 
with  boiling  water  and  simmer  gently  for  three  hours.  An  hour 
before  meat  is  done  add  one  sliced  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  celery  seed.  When  meat  is  done  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  cold  chop  fine. 


MEATS  17 


Cover  one  box  of  gelatine  with  one-half  cup  of  cold  water,  let 
soak,  and  then  add  one  quart  of  meat  liquor.  Beat  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  add  to  this  cold  mixture.  Bring  the  whole  to  boiling 
point  and  boil  five  minutes,  then  strain  through  cloth.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  one  lemon  if  desired.  Cover  the  bottom 
of  mold  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  sprinkle  over  and  around 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  put  in  the  meat,  and  pour  over  just  suffi- 
cient jelly  to  moisten  and  come  to  the  top.    Let  stand  over  night. 

This  will  keep  for  several  days.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  serve 
with  water  cress,  Bearnaise  or  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

ROAST  BEEF  AU  CLAIR 

MRS.  C.  S.  PENHALLOW 

Cut  cold  roast  beef  in  thin  slices  and  arrange  on  platter  for 
serving.    Pour  over  beef  the  following 

Dressing 

6  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  34  teaspoon  of  pepper 

Yl  teaspoon  of  paprika  3^  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard 

1  tablespoon  each  finely  chopped  challot,  parsley,  and  red  pepper 

Garnish  with  pimolas,  curled  celery,  and  lettuce. 

MEAT   SOUFFLE 

MISS   E.    P.    RICE 

Make  one  cup  of  cream  sauce  and  season  with  onion  and 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Stir  one  cup  of  chopped  meat  (chicken, 
lamb,  veal,  or  tongue)  into  the  sauce.  When  hot  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs.  Cook  one  minute  and  set  to  cool.  When  cool 
stir  in  the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  dish  for 
twenty  minutes. 

SWEETBREADS.    As  an  Entree 

BARONESS   VON    SCHOLLEY 

Blanch  two  pounds  of  broken  sweetbreads,  remove  the  skins 
and  chop  fine.  Add  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  one 
teaspoon  of  onion.     Soak  two  French  rolls  in  very  little  water, 


1 8  THE  FAULKNER   COOK  BOOK 

squeeze  dry,  and  pick  apart,  making  very  fine,  and  add  to  the 
sweetbreads.  Cream  one-fourth  pound  of  unsalted  butter,  add 
yolks  of  five  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  to  mixture  with 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs.  Fill  a  well-buttered  pudding 
mold,  close  tightly,  and  steam  one  and  a  half  hours.  Serve  with 
a  Hollandaise  sauce. 

BRAINS 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Sheep's  or  calf's  brains. 

Having  carefully  washed  the  brains,  boil  them  very  fast,  in 
order  to  harden  them,  in  well-seasoned  gravy.  When  they  are 
done  remove  from  gravy  and  allow  to  cool.  Cut  them  in  slices  or 
in  halves,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  well  seasoned  with 
dried  and  sifted  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter 
until  brown.  The  gravy  having  become  cold,  take  off  the  fat  and 
boil  in  an  uncovered  stew  pan  until  it  is  reduced  to  a  small  quan- 
tity.   Pour  it  around  the  brains  and  serve. 

A  slice  of  tomato,  prepared  as  for  salad,  may  be  placed  between 
or  under  each  piece  of  brain,  or  a  little  pickled  cucumber  may  be 
served  in  the  gravy. 

LIVER  PATE 

MRS.    BARNUM   W.    FIELD 

1  calf's  liver  and  1  calf's  tongue,    2  tablespoons  of  Worcestershire 
boiled  hard  sauce 

2  cups  of  melted  butter  Y%  teaspoon  of  red  pepper 
1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper             ~j/£  teaspoon  of  allspice 

3^2  teaspoon  of  ground  clove  Little  chopped  onion 

%  nutmeg,  grated  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice 

Yi  to  1  cup  of  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  of  Brandy 

1  cup  of  chopped  French  mush-  Salt,  paprika,  tabasco,  or  other 
rooms  spices  to  taste 

Have  liver  grated  fine  and  mushrooms  and  tongue  chopped  in 
very  small  pieces.  To  these  add  melted  butter,  hot  water,  Brandy, 
etc.  The  mixture  will  have  the  consistency  of  unbaked  cake 
dough.  Put  in  molds  in  a  very  cold  place  to  harden,  and  it  will 
resemble  pate  de  foie  gras  and  will  keep  some  weeks  if  covered 
from  the  air. 


MEATS  19 


LIVER  PATE 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

1  calf's  liver,  boiled  until  tender     1  box  of  mushrooms 

1  can  of  truffles  1  large  onion,  grated 

2  cups  of  melted  butter  Paprika,  celery  salt 

When  the  liver  is  cold,  grate  and  add  melted  butter  first,  then 
other  ingredients,  stirring  briskly  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Fresh 
mushrooms  are  better  than  the  tinned  ones,  but  they  must  be 
cooked  first,  and  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  they  are  simmered 
may  be  added  to  advantage,  also  the  liquid  in  the  truffle  can. 
When  the  pate  is  mixed  it  should  be  molded  in  a  well-buttered 
dish  and  served  cold.  Will  keep  for  a  week  in  the  ice  chest,  and 
is  excellent  served  with  lettuce  as  a  salad. 

LIVER  RECHAUFFE 

MRS.    CHARLES    HARRINGTON 

To  about  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cooked  liver,  chopped  rather 
fine,  take  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  one-half  teaspoon  of  mixed 
mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  and  one  hard-boiled  egg.  Dredge  the  liver  thickly  with 
flour,  pour  water  over  it,  and  put  on  stove  with  other  ingredients, 
excepting  the  egg.  Let  cook  until  thick,  adding  water  if  neces- 
sary.   Add  egg,  chopped  fine,  just  before  serving,  and  a  little  wine. 

BEEF  LOAF 

MRS.    F.    E.    BRIDGMAN 

13^  pounds  of  Hamburg  steak       1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 
1  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

Y2  teaspoon  of  pepper  1  teaspoon  of  poultry  seasoning 

1  beaten  egg 

Bake  in  buttered  bread  tin  one  and  a  half  hours,  with  pan  set  in 
hot  water. 

CHIPPED  BEEF  WITH  TOMATO 

MRS.    T.    W.    TUCKER 

One-half  pound  of  chipped  beef  put  in  cold  water  and  simmered 
a  few  minutes,  two  cups  of  thick  tomato,  one  rounding  tablespoon 


20  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

of  butter  put  in  a  saucepan  and  heated,  not  browned.  Add  the 
tomato  to  butter,  sprinkle  with  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  flour; 
then  drain  the  beef  and  add  to  tomato. 

■ 

SPANISH  BEEF   OR  TONGUE.    A  Calif ornia  Dish 

MRS.    CHARLES    H.    SOUTHER 

Buy  a  two-rib  roast  of  beef,  remove  bones,  roll  up  and  tie  se- 
curely with  a  string.  Put  in  deep  granite  pan,  cover  with  sliced 
tomatoes,  pepper,  and  onions,  and  bake  slowly  three  hours.  Serve 
on  platter  with  vegetables  around. 

Tongue 

Boil  a  tongue  and  remove  the  skin.  Cover  like  beef  and  roast 
long  enough  for  vegetables  to  be  well  cooked. 

Beef  Steak 

Take  two  thick  slices  of  steak,  put  vegetables  between,  also 
tomato  ketchup,  and  cook  like  beef. 

FRICANDEAU   OF  VEAL 

MRS.    H.    DE   FOREST   LOCKWOOD 

Take  a  piece  of  veal  from  the  leg,  loin,  or  cutlet  piece,  about 
one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  and  lard  one  side  the  same  as  for 
fillet  of  beef.  For  two  pounds  of  meat  put  in  a  saucepan  one 
ounce  of  butter,  one-half  onion  and  one-half  carrot  sliced,  and 
six  or  eight  whole  pepper  corns.  Spread  all  these  on  bottom  of  pan 
and  lay  veal  on  them,  larded  side  up.  Set  on  a  good  fire  for 
fifteen  minutes,  or  until  under  side  is  well  browned.  Then  add 
one  gill  of  broth  or  stock  and  put  in  oven.  Baste  often  and  cook 
until  well  done.    Serve  with  gravy  strained  over  it. 

ROASTED   STEAK.     "Very  Good" 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Ask  the  butcher,  when  the  rump  is  cut  out  to  within  two  or 
three  pounds,  to  take  the  remainder  off  the  bone  in  one  piece. 
Tie  the  piece  of  meat  into  a  neat  round  shape,  lightly  pepper, 


MEATS  21 


f 
salt,  and  flour  it,  and  put  m  oven.     Baste  and  turn  frequently. 

It  will  take  about  one  and  a  quarter  hours.     Serve  with  plain 

beef  gravy  in  the  dish. 

BEEFSTEAK  EN   CASSEROLE 

S.    S.    B . 

Broil  about  fifteen  minutes  a  club  steak  weighing  four  pounds; 
put  in  a  pan  and  spread  with  plenty  of  butter  or  marrow.  Place 
on  top  one-half  green  pepper,  cut  in  small  pieces,  a  few  slices  of 
fresh  tomatoes,  or  one  cup  of  canned  tomatoes,  and  cook  in  oven 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  remove  to 
hot  platter,  and  arrange  around  it  a  border  consisting  of  fried 
potato  balls,  sauted  fresh  mushrooms,  small  fried  onions,  and,  if 
desired,  other  vegetables  (carrots  cut  into  dice  and  cooked  string 
beans  or  peas) .  Add  to  steak  gravy  one  tablespoon  of  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  two  tablespoons  of  catsup,  two  tablespoons  of  Sherry 
wine,  a  little  chopped  celery  and  parsley,  and  pour  over  steak. 

BAKED   TONGUE 

MRS.    CHARLES   HARRINGTON 

Boil  a  fresh  tongue  until  tender,  skin,  and  set  away  to  cool  in 
the  same  water.  Take  out  and  put  in  baking  dish  and  bake  until 
brown,  about  half  an  hour,  basting  with  the  following 

Sauce 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  vinegar 

2  dozen  cloves  1  lemon,  cut  fine 

1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  fine 

Serve  with  sauce  around  tongue. 

COTTAGE  PIE 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Cut  into  dice  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  any  coarse  lean  part 
of  beef  (from  the  sticking  piece  is  best)  and  put  it  into  a  stew  pan 
with  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  salt,  and  four 
minced  onions.    Let  this  simmer  in  its  own  juices  until  perfectly 


22  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

tender.  If  not  allowed  to  cook  too  fast  there  will  be  nearly  one- 
half  pint  of  gravy  from  fine  fresh  meat.  It  will  take  nearly  two 
hours  to  cook  properly.  When  ready,  put  the  meat  and  onions 
into  a  pie  dish,  mix  the  gravy  with  sufficient  plain  butter  sauce 
to  fill  the  dish,  and  cover  it  with  nicely  mashed  potatoes.  Mark 
the  cover  on  top  by  crossing  in  squares  with  a  knife.  Bake  for 
twenty  minutes.  The  potato  crust  should  be  nicely  browned. 
A  little  milk  or  butter  should  be  mixed  with  the  potatoes.  This 
pie  may  also  be  made  of  cold  meat  and  will  not  require  stewing. 

A  BAKED  STEW 

MRS.    NATHANIEL  WALES 

Left-over  lamb  is  the  best  for  this.  Cut  the  lamb  in  cubes;  add 
one  cup  of  cooked  rice,  one-half  can  of  tomatoes,  potatoes,  onions, 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  casserole,  or  any  deep  dish  that  has  a 
tight  cover,  with  plenty  of  hot  water  and  bake  about  one  and  a 
half  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  The  time  depends  on  the  quantity. 
Serve  in  same  dish. 

Water  may  have  to  be  added  when  partly  baked. 

GARNISHED  LAMB   CHOPS 

BARONESS  VON   SCHOLLEY 

Garnishing 

Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  and  saute  in  it  two  finely  minced 
onions  and  one  tablespoon  of  fine  parsley;  add  two  tablespoons  of 
minced  mushrooms,  one  tablespoon  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  one-fourth  cup  of  white  sauce.  If  too  thick  add  a  little  mush- 
room liquor.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  boil  up  once,  then 
put  away  to  cool. 

Pare  and  flatten  twelve  lamb  chops;  season  each  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  brush  with  olive  oil.  Broil,  or  cook  them  in  a  sautoire 
for  two  minutes,  on  one  side  only.  Divide  garnishing  into  twelve 
parts  and  spread  evenly  over  cooked  side  of  chops;  sprinkle  with 
fresh  bread  crumbs  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour  a  little 
melted  butter  over  each.    Lay  them  carefully  in  a  well-buttered 


MEATS  23 


roasting  pan  and  place  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  five  minutes,  or 
until  of  a  good  color.    Serve  with  a  pint  of  hot  tomato  sauce. 

BONED   SHOULDER  OF  LAMB 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Saw  off  the  shank  and  carefully  remove  the  blade-bone  of  the 
shoulder;  chop  a  few  mushrooms,  previously  stewed  in  butter, 
and  put  them  in  the  cavity.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
roll  the  shoulder  up  tightly,  securing  it  with  string.  Roast,  and 
when  done  serve  with  mushrooms,  stewed  either  in  butter  or 
gravy. 

SHOULDER  OF  LAMB 

MRS.    B.    W.    MUNROE 

Put  the  shoulder  into  a  deep  iron  pan,  slice  three  or  four  onions 
over  it,  and  put  into  the  oven.  Baste  it  after  it  is  brown.  A 
quarter  of  an  hour  before  serving,  turn  in  one  tablespoon  of  Soy, 
three  tablespoons  of  tomato  catsup,  and  one-half  cup  of  wine. 

Should  the  gravy  not  be  thick  enough,  add  flour  with  the  wine 
and  boil  up  well. 

The  time  depends  on  the  size  of  the  shoulder. 

In  season  use  fresh  tomatoes  boiled  and  strained  over  it.  A 
shoulder  of  veal  is  also  excellent. 

HAMPTON  LAMB 

"  PLYMOUTH."     MRS.  B.  W.  MUNROE 

2  large  cups  of  lamb,  cut  in  dice     1  large  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
Y2  pint  of  cream  (less  will  do     1  tablespoon  of  chopped  capers 
with  a  little  milk)  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  or  not, 

1  tablespoon  of  jelly  as  desired 

J/2  saltspoon  of  cayenne,  or  less 

Stir  all  together  and  cook,  then  put  in  the  lamb  just  long  enough 
to  heat. 

LAMB   TERRAPIN 

MISS    SUSAN    L.    MERRIAM 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
the  mashed  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  mus- 


24  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

tard,  one  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  one  cup  of  stock.  When  boiling  add  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  lamb,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs, 
finely  chopped.    Season  with  Sherry. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN 

MISS   ROSAMOND   HILL   SMITH 

13^2  cups  of  cold  cooked  chicken  Yolks   and  whites   of   2   hard- 

or  veal,  chopped  into  dice  boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped 

1  cup  of  white  sauce  3  tablespoons  of  Sherry  wine 

J4  teaspoon  of  salt  Cayenne  pepper 

Add  chicken,  eggs,  salt,  etc.,  to  sauce  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Add  wine.    Put  on  platter  and  serve. 

HASHED  LAMB   WITH  ENGLISH  WALNUTS 

MRS.  EDWARD   L.  YOUNG,  JR. 

To  one  pint  of  cold  chopped  lamb  add  one  cup  of  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  diced,  and  one-half  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts. 
Heat  in  one  pint  of  cream  sauce,  made  with  four  tablespoons  each 
of  butter  and  flour  and  two  cups  of  brown  stock  or  milk.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  chopped  parsley. 

BELGIAN  ROAST 

MRS.    CHARLES   HARRINGTON 

1  pound  of  veal,  1  pound  of  beef,     1  cup  of  crumbs 
and  1  pound  of  fresh  pork,  all     1  cup  of  Cold  water 
put  twice  through  the  chopper     1  level  tablespoon  of  salt 

3  eggs  Y%  teaspoon  of  pepper 

1  small  onion,  chopped 

Form  into  a  loaf  and  roast  one  and  a  quarter  hours,  covered 
with  strips  of  salt  pork.    Serve  with  the  following 

Gravy 

Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  browned,  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one-half  pint  of  stock  or  water,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little 
pepper. 


MEATS  25 


MELTON  VEAL 

MRS.    GEORGE    HARRINGTON 

2  pounds  of  lean  veal,  cut  while         1  slice  of  ham,   boiled  and 
raw  into  small  pieces  chopped  fine 

Line  a  quart  bowl  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mix  two  tea- 
spoons of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  sweet 
marjoram,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  sage.  Put  in  bowl  a  layer  of 
each  kind  of  meat,  sprinkling  with  seasonings  and  adding  a  few 
bits  of  sliced  lemon  with  the  veal,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Cover 
with  a  plate  and  steam  four  hours,  then  put  a  flatiron  on  plate 
and  put  away  to  stand  over  night.    Turn  out  and  serve. 

FORCEMEAT  RISSOLES 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Roll  out  some  puff  paste  (one-fourth  pound  will  make  a  good 
many  rissoles)  to  one-fourth  inch  thickness.  Cut  in  rounds  with 
a  paste  cutter  or  the  top  of  a  cup.  Pound  sausage  meat  in  a  mor- 
tar and  put  a  teaspoonful  on  each  paste  round;  wet  the  edges 
and  fold  over  to  the  shape  of  a  puff,  press  well  together,  and  mark 
with  a  paste  cutter.  Fry  them  in  hot  fat,  garnish  with  fried  pars- 
ley, and  serve  in  a  napkin. 

RICE   CASE  WITH  FORCEMEAT 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Boil  one-half  pound  of  Carolina  rice  in  a  quart  of  water  with 
one  ounce  of  bacon  fat  or  butter;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When 
it  is  done  and  dry  enough  pound  it  in  a  mortar,  then  roll  into  a 
ball,  put  it  on  a  baking  sheet,  and  mold  it  with  the  hands  into 
the  shape  of  a  raised  pie.  Brush  it  over  with  melted  butter,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  until  it  colors  nicely.  Put  into  it  as  many  fried 
sausage  balls  as  it  will  contain,  and  pour  over  them  a  thick  brown 
gravy. 

BONELESS   HAM 

MRS.    F.    C.    JILLSON 

Put  ham  to  soak  in  cold  water  for  eighteen  hours.  Pour  off  water 
and  cover  again  with  cold  water  and  a  quart  of  milk.    Soak  about 


26  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

six  hours  and  put  on  fire  in  same  liquor.  Boil  slowly  about  six 
hours,  or  until  the  bone  will  twist  out.  Remove  bone  and  skin, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  add  whole  cloves,  tie  with  string  if  necessary, 
and  bake  one  hour.    Slice  when  cold. 

HAM  TIMBALES 

MRS.    ARTHUR   N.    BROUGHTON 

1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  1  cup  of  milk 

4  tablespoons  of  butter  1  cup  of  chopped  ham 

}/$  teaspoon  of  pepper  3^  teaspoon  of  salt 

Whites  of  2  eggs  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

Cook  bread  crumbs  and  milk  until  smooth;  add  butter,  ham, 
salt,  and  pepper;  then  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Fill  but- 
tered individual  molds  two-thirds  full,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water, 
and  bake  until  firm,  about  twenty  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley 
and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

HAM  CANAPES 

MRS.    ARTHUR   N.    BROUGHTON 

Cut  six  slices  of  bread  with  a  circular  cutter  and  toast  to  a  golden 
brown.  Place  on  a  platter  with  a  slice  of  cooked  ham  and  a  dropped 
egg  on  each. 

BAKED  HAM 

MRS.    H.    O.    HOFMAN 

Put  one  slice  of  ham  in  a  baking  dish ;  cover  all  except  fat  with 
a  paste  made  of  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one-half  cup 
of  flour,  and  water  to  mix.  Then  put  in  the  dish  milk  enough  to 
come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  ham  and  bake  one  hour. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  WITH  WHITE  GRAVY 

MRS.    H.    B.    CHAPIN 

Cut  sliced  veal  into  cutlets  and  dip  each  piece  in  fine  cracker 
crumbs  and  then  in  egg.  Fry  brown  some  slices  of  pork.  Take 
out  the  pieces  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  nice  lard.  When  very 
hot  put  in  the  veal  and  cook  thoroughly  an  even  light  brown. 
Put  in  dish.    Add  to  the  fat  in  the  pan  a  little  dust  of  flour,  salt 


MEATS  2  7 


and  pepper,  a  little  boiling  water,  and  enough  cream  to  make  it  a 
smooth  rich  consistency.  Stir  constantly  while  cooking  and  pour 
over  cutlets.    A  little  wine  may  be  added. 

POTTED  PIGEONS 

MISS   E.    P.    RICE 

Stuff  the  pigeons  with  a  nice  dressing,  made  with  onion,  clove, 
bread,  etc.  Try  out  a  little  salt  pork,  put  the  pigeons  in  the  hot 
fat,  and  fry  to  a  brown.  Take  out,  put  into  a  kettle  with  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  and  let  them  simmer  three  hours.  Take 
out,  thicken  gravy,  and  add  Sherry  wine. 

See  also  Chqfing-Dish  Recipes. 


VEGETABLES 
SPAGHETTI  A  L'lTALIENNE 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Bring  water  to  a  boil  in  a  large  pot,  with  salt  to  taste,  and  put 
in  the  spaghetti  gently  without  breaking.  Boil  with  occasional 
stirring  until  raw  taste  disappears,  about  twelve  or  fourteen 
minutes.  Strain  and  serve  at  once  with  grated  Roman  or  Par- 
mesan cheese  and  tomato  sauce. 

SOUTHERN  SWEET  POTATOES 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Boil  until  tender  six  good-sized  sweet  potatoes.  Peel  and  mash 
in  a  hot  basin;  season  with  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  two 
tablespoons  of  white  sugar.  Beat  very  light  with  a  fork,  pour 
into  baking  dish,  smooth,  and  spread  a  little  butter  on  top  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

CANDIED   SWEET  POTATOES 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  without  peeling.  When  soft  enough  for  a 
fork  to  penetrate  them  easily,  take  from  water,  skin,  and  cut  into 
medium  thick  slices,  putting  a  layer  in  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish  and  covering  thickly  with  light-brown  sugar  dotted  with 
small  bits  of  butter.  Repeat  the  layers  until  all  the  potatoes  are 
used,  having  sugar  and  butter  on  top.  Put  in  a  hot  oven  until 
sugar  and  butter  melt  together  and  the  top  is  a  delicate  brown. 

BEETS 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Make  a  sauce  of  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  one  saltspoon  of  mustard,  one  egg,  and  one-half  teaspoon 
of  vinegar.  Add  six  beets,  boiled  tender  and  chopped  rather  fine. 
Beat  all  together  and  heat  until  creamy.' 

28 


VEGETABLES  29 

JAPANESE  RICE 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Wash  one  cup  of  rice  thoroughly  and  put  over  fire  with  five  cups 
of  fast-boiling  water.  Add  salt,  and  when  it  has  boiled  fast  for 
fifteen  minutes  set  the  saucepan,  uncovered,  in  a  moderate  oven. 
In  fifteen  minutes  the  water  will  have  completely  evaporated  and 
every  grain  will  be  distinct  and  fluffy. 

A  DIFFERENT  WAY  OF  BAKING  BEANS 

MRS.    NATHANIEL  WALES 

Two  cups  of  medium-sized  pea  beans,  soaked  over  night.  In 
the  morning  put  in  fresh  water  with  a  little  salt  and  boil  until 
very  soft,  almost  mushy.  There  should  be  enough  water,  to  begin 
with,  not  to  have  to  add  any,  but  the  beans  must  be  very  moist 
when  boiled.  Try  out  eight  or  ten  slices  of  salt  pork  in  a  spider, 
put  the  beans  into  the  pork  fat,  and  put  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
until  a  crispy  brown  on  top.  Serve  on  platter,  taking  out  carefully, 
so  that  crispy  part  is  up.  Garnish  with  the  crisp  pieces  of  pork. 
When  reheated  for  the  following  day  sprinkle  with  a  little  water 
and  put  in  oven. 

CARAMELED   CARROTS 

MISS    ROSAMOND   HILL   SMITH 

Cut  one  or  two  large  carrots  into  very  thin  pieces,  about  two 
inches  long.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar, 
and  add  one  good  tablespoon  of  butter.  Pour  on  water  enough 
to  cover  them  and  let  them  simmer  until  all  but  one  tablespoon 
of  the  water  has  boiled  away.  Then  sift  a  little  flour  over  them 
and  stir  until  it  is  all  absorbed.  This  requires  about  two  hours 
for  cooking  the  carrots. 

TOMATO   CROUTES 

MRS.    A.    N.    BROUGHTON 

Scald  and  peel  small  tomatoes,  then  cut  a  slice  from  the  stem 
end.  Place  them,  the  cut  side  down,  on  slices  of  buttered  bread, 
put  them  in  a  buttered  baking  tin,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  bake  half  an  hour.    Serve  with  cold  roast  beef. 


3©  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

CORN  PUDDING.    Served  as  a  Vegetable 

MRS.    WINTHROP    C.    DURFEE 

1  can  of  corn,  chopped,  or  an     1  teaspoon  of  salt 

equal  amount  of  fresh  corn        1  pint  of  milk 
1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter      1  teaspoon  of  sugar 
1  teaspoon  of  flour  2  eggs,  beaten 

}/i  teaspoon  of  pepper 

Bake  in  a  shallow  buttered  pan  for  twenty  minutes. 
BAKED   STUFFED   CUCUMBERS.     "Very  good" 

MRS.   WILLIAM   F.    HASTINGS 

Wipe  and  peel  cucumbers,  cut  in  two-inch  pieces,  crosswise,  re- 
moving the  seeds.  Mix  four  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs  and  two 
tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  moisten  with  tomato  sauce,  and  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Put  cucumber  cups  in  shallow 
pans,  fill  with  mixture,  surround  with  chicken  stock,  and  bake 
thirty  minutes.  Remove,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  and 
bake  again  until  crumbs  brown. 

TOMATOES  WITH   CHEESE 

MISS   KATHARINE    R.    WENDELL 

Cut  pieces  of  bread  round,  like  cookies,  and  fry  in  batter  a  light 
brown.  Slice  firm  ripe  tomatoes  and  broil  slightly;  then  put  a 
piece  on  bread,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  scatter  Parmesan 
cheese  over  them  and  a  layer  of  fine  bread  crumbs  moistened  with 
melted  butter.    Brown  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  piping  hot. 

STUFFED   MUSHROOMS 

MR.    W.    CLIFTON  JONES 

Chop  one  shallot  and  saute  in  one-half  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Remove  the  insides  of  mushrooms,  chop  with  half  the  stalks,  and 
add  to  the  shallot;  add  a  glass  of  white  wine  and  a  little  good 
broth.  (Steep  the  remaining  stalks  in  one^-third  cup  of  water  for 
mushroom  broth  or  gravy.)  Cook  for  half  an  hour,  then  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.     Add  chopped  parsley,  butter, 


VEGETABLES  3 1 

yolks  of  two  eggs,  fresh  crumbs ,  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Fill  the 
mushrooms,  place  in  a  well-buttered  pan,  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 
Moisten  with  the  gravy  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Recipe  of  Somerset  Club  Chef  de  Cuisine 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  MIEUSSET 

MR.    W.    CLIFTON  JONES 

Peel  and  wash  one-half  pound  of  mushrooms  and  place  on  but- 
tered toast  in  a  baking  dish  with  a  glass  cover.  Mix  two  ounces 
of  butter  with  chopped  parsley;  add  four  drops  of  lemon  juice,  salt 
and  pepper.  Fill  the  mushrooms  with  the  mixture  and  pour  a 
glass  of  sweet  cream  over  them.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes.  If 
too  dry  when  cooked  add  more  cream. 

Recipe  of  Somerset  Club  Chef 

FRIED   TOMATOES 

MRS.    JOSEPH   WILLIAMS 

Cut  tomatoes  in  halves,  sprinkle  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  one 
teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  fry  in  butter,  turning  both  sides.  Remove 
tomatoes,  add  one-half  cup  of  cream,  thicken  with  flour,  and  add 
a  little  Sherry.    Pour  over  tomatoes  and  serve. 

GREEN  PEPPERS 

MRS.    CHANNING   WILLIAMS 

Cut  sweet  green  peppers  in  thin  slices  and  boil  ten  minutes. 
Brown  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  the  peppers  in  this  until 
tender.    Little  or  no  seasoning  will  be  necessary. 

STUFFED   PEPPERS 

MRS.    A.    J.    PETERS 

Cut  off  the  stem  end  of  green  or  red  peppers,  remove  seeds,  and 
parboil  for  a  few  minutes.  Stuff  with  creamed  sweetbreads  and 
mushrooms  and  serve  hot. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS 

HOW  TO   MIX  A   SALAD.    A  Recipe  in  Rhyme 

REV.    SIDNEY    SMITH  ' 

"  Two  large  potatoes  passed  thro'  kitchen  sieve 
Smoothness  and  softness  to  the  salad  give; 
Of  mordant  mustard  add  a  single  spoon  — 
Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon; 
But  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  herbs,  a  fault 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 
Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  olives  crown, 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 
True  flavour  needs  it  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well  boiled  eggs. 
Let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 
And  scarce  suspected  animate  the  whole: 
And,  lastly,  on  the  flavour'd  compound  toss 
A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 
Oh !  great  and  glorious  and  herbaceous  treat, 
'T  would  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat, 
Back  to  the  world  he  'd  turn  his  weary  soul 
And  plunge  his  ringers  in  the  salad  bowl." 

SALAD   DRESSING 

MISS    EMILY   KNIGHT 

1  teaspoon  of  mustard  Yolks  of  3  eggs 

Y2  teaspoon  of  salt  Juice  of  1  lemon,  to  be  added 

Pinch  of  cayenne  last 

Add  oil  slowly,  stirring  always  in  one  direction,  until  thick. 
Thin  with  vinegar. 

CREAM   SALAD   DRESSING 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

Beat  one  egg  thoroughly.     Mix  one-half  tablespoon  of  mixed 
mustard,  a  little  salt,  paprika,  red  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  an 

32 


SALADS  AND   SALAD   DRESSINGS  33 

egg,  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  vinegar  and  add  to  the 
egg.  Put  in  saucepan  over  teakettle  and  stir  until  like  soft  cus- 
tard. Cool,  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  one-half  pint  of  whipped 
cream. 

Delicious  on  salad  made  of  Taka  pears  and  English  walnuts. 

ROQUEFORT   CHEESE   SALAD   DRESSING 

MISS    LAURA   KELSEY 

}4  teaspoon  of  salt,  covered  with  3^  teaspoon  of  sugar 

pepper  2  dessertspoons  of  Heinz'  tomato 

Roquefort  cheese,  size  of  an  egg  catsup 

6  tablespoons  of  salad  oil  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar 

Mix  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  oil  together  and  rub  in  cheese 
thoroughly  until  smooth.  Add  catsup  and  then  vinegar  and  beat 
with  egg  beater.    Pour  over  lettuce  leaves. 

This  amount  is  enough  for  a  medium-sized  head  of  lettuce. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD   SLAW 

MRS.    WILLIAM   D.    HOWLAND 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  1  teaspoon  of  mustard 

2  teaspoons  of  salt  34  saltspoon  of  cayenne 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar  2  tablespoons  of  oil 

1  cup  of  milk  }/2  cup  of  hot  vinegar 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff 

Cook  in  double  boiler  seven  or  eight  minutes,  until  it  is  of  right 
consistency. 

DRESSING  FOR   CABBAGE   SALAD 

MISS    S.    L.    EDWARDS 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  1  tablespoon  of  mustard 
1  teaspoon  of  black  pepper             2  teaspoons  of  salt 

3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter      6  tablespoons  of  cream 

1  cup  of  vinegar 

Set  on  stove  and  stir  until  it  thickens  like  custard. 
This  is  for  half  a  medium-sized  cabbage. 


34  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

DRESSING  FOR   CABBAGE   SALAD 

MRS.    HENRY   B.    CHAPIN 

Y2  cup  of  butter  J/£  cup  of  sugar 

Yl  cup  of  cream  1  tablespoon  of  dry  mustard 

Yolks   and   whites   of  3   eggs,     1  teaspoon  of  salt,  pepper 
beaten  separately 

Beat  all  together,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  and  cook 
like  custard  in  a  double  boiler. 

WHIPPED   CREAM  DRESSING 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Chill  and  whip  one-half  pint  of  cream  until  stiff.  Add  gradually 
three  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  salt- 
spoon  each  of  paprika  and  black  pepper,  and  three  tablespoons  of 
grated  horse  radish. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING,  Which  Never  Separates 

MRS.    EDWARD   B.    LANE 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  V/2  pints  of  olive  oil 

2  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar  1  tablespoon  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice 

Small  pinch  of  red  pepper  1  tablespoon  of  hot  water 

Add  about  a  tablespoon  of  the  oil  to  the  egg  yolks  and  beat, 
then  add  the  remainder  of  the  oil  and  all  the  vinegar,  and  beat 
together.  Add  the  salt,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  pepper,  and 
finally  the  hot  water.    This  can  be  made  in  five  minutes. 

FRUIT  SALAD   DRESSING 

M.    C.    L. 

4  egg  yolks  or  2  whole  eggs  4  tablespoons  of  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar  Y  teaspoon  of  mustard 

Salt,  paprika  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  When  cold  add  three-fourths 
of  a  cup  of  cream,  stiffly  whipped.  A  little  "  Marshmallow 
Cream  "  may  be  added  if  desired. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  35 

RUSSIAN   SAUCE 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

M  cup  of  Mayonnaise  3  tablespoons  of  chili  sauce 

2  tablespoons  of  pimentos,  cut  1  tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar 

small  1  teaspoon  of  chives,  chopped  fine 

M  teaspoon  of  Escoffier  Diable  Enough  dried  tarragon  leaves  to 

sauce  *  taste,  finely  pounded 

RUSSIAN  SALAD  DRESSING 

MISS   J.    L.    BARRY 

1  cup  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing  1  teaspoon  of  pimentos,  chopped 
1  teaspoon  of  green  peppers,  fine 

chopped  fine  3^2  teaspoon  of  paprika 

1  teaspoon  of  tarragon  vinegar  3^  cup  of  olive  oil 

34  teaspoon  of  salt  3^  cup  of  chili  sauce 

Prepare  the  Mayonnaise  in  the  usual  way ;  then  to  a  cup  of  the 
dressing  gradually  beat  in  an  extra  half  cup  of  oil,  then  the  chili 
sauce,  seasonings,  vinegar,  peppers,  and  pimentos. 

COPLEY   SALAD   DRESSING 

S.  S.  B . 

6   tablespoons   of   Mayonnaise     2  tablespoons  of  Escoffier  Diable 

Dressing  sauce 1 

1  tablespoon  of  chili  sauce  A  very  little  chopped  chives 

FROZEN  FRUIT   SALAD 

M.    C.    L. 

Cut  up  a  variety  of  fruits  and  pack  into  a  one-pound  baking 
powder  tin,  reserving  the  juice.  To  the  juice  add  sugar  and  a 
little  gelatine.  Pour  this  into  the  can  of  fruit.  Pack  can  in  ice 
and  salt  for  two  hours,  taking  it  out  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 
To  serve,  slice  the  roll  of  fruit  and  place  the  slices  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

1  Escoffier  Diable  sauce  is  to  be  had  at  S.  S.  Pierce's. 


36  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

FRUIT  SALAD 

M.  C.  L. 

Cut  up  five  oranges,  one  banana,  one  cup  of  pineapple,  one- 
fourth  pound  of  white  grapes,  seeded  and  skinned,  or  one  cup  of 
cherries,  stoned,  six  or  eight  marshmallows,  cut  into  fine  pieces. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  shredded  almonds  and  Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

NECTAR   SALAD 

MRS.    JOHN   B.    R.    LYONS 

10  cents'  worth  of  marshmal-  5  slices  of  pineapple,  cut  the  same 
lows,  cut  in  small  pieces  with  1  pound  of  white  grapes,  seeded 
scissors  and  cut 

}/2  cup  of  pecan  nuts  chopped 

Mix  these  together  and  pour  over  the  following 

Dressing 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  Juice  of  2  lemons  Y%  cup  of  milk 

Mix  lemon  and  eggs  with  egg  beater,  then  add  milk,  and  cook 
in  double  boiler. 

Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.    Enough  for  twelve  persons. 

PINEAPPLE   SALAD 

MRS.    CHARLES   F.    DOLE 

Drain  the  sliced  pineapple,  cut  in  cubes  with  silver  fork,  and 
dress  with  Mayonnaise  on  lettuce  leaves. 

The  juice  may  be  made  into  a  delicious  jelly  by  proceeding  as 
for  any  plain  jelly.  —  a.  d.  weld. 

JELLY  CELERY  SALAD 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Soak  two  tablespoons  of  gelatine  in  two-thirds  cup  of  cold  water 
and  dissolve  by  adding  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Add  five  table- 
spoons of  lemon  juice,  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  table- 
spoon of  fresh  grated  horse-radish  root,  pepper  and  cayenne  to 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  37 

taste.  Color  a  light  green,  and  when  mixture  begins  to  thicken 
add  one  cup  of  finely  chopped  celery.  Mold,  chill,  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  Russian  Sauce. 

FRUIT   SALAD 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Boil  four  tablespoons  of  water  and  eight  tablespoons  of  sugar 
until  it  drops  thick;  pour  this  over  the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten 
stiff  and  flavored  with  lemon.  Have  bananas  and  oranges  sliced, 
and  while  the  dressing  is  hot  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

ORANGE   SALAD 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Make  a  dressing  of  equal  parts  of  brandy,  tarragon  vinegar, 
and  olive  oil,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  sliced 
oranges. 

CELERY   SALAD 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Cut  celery  into  inch-long  pieces,  squeeze  a  little  lemon  juice 
over  it,  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  before  putting  into  salad 
bowl.  After  it  is  in  the  bowl,  cover  with  green  Mayonnaise  and 
sprinkle  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  over  top. 

TOMATO   AND   CHICKEN   SALAD 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Remove  skins  of  tomatoes  by  pouring  boiling  water  over  them, 
and  dip  into  iced  water  to  harden.  Then  cut  a  piece  out  of  the 
stem  end,  remove  seeds  from  inside,  and  fill  with  chicken  salad. 
Place  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

APPLE   AND   CUMQUAT   SALAD 

MRS.    CLIFFORD    DEVENS 

Cut  apples  and  cumquats  in  very  small  pieces,  cover  with  a 
French  dressing  made  with  lemon  juice,  mix  gently,  and  serve  on 
lettuce. 


38  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

DELICIOUS  BANANA  SALAD 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Take  short  thick  bananas,  either  red  or  yellow,  and  turn  back 
a  strip  of  the  peel  and  scoop  out  the  pulp.  Then  fill  the  space  with 
a  mixture  of  thinly  sliced  banana,  shredded  orange  or  grape 
fruit,  white  grapes,  and  a  few  kernels  of  English  walnuts  or  pecans 
in  small  pieces.  In  season,  stoned  cherries  may  be  added.  Mix 
with  a  generous  supply  of  dressing  and  fill  the  cases,  putting  each 
one  on  lettuce  leaves.    These  cannot  stand  iong. 

CONTINENTAL  SALAD 

MRS.    S.   W.    ANDREW 

Take  small  smooth  tomatoes,  cut  from  center  of  top  down 
through  the  skin  and  thick  part  nearly  to  the  stem,  dividing  into 
six  equal  parts ;  then  cut  each  of  these  points  halfway  down  away 
from  center,  leaving  that  like  a  ball  of  juicy  pulp  and  seeds  with 
the  points  opening  out  like  petals.  Arrange  two  or  three  lettuce 
leaves  in  a  circle.  Spread  two  tablespoons  of  Whipped  Cream 
Dressing  in  the  middle,  lay  a  tomato  on  the  cream,  and  put  a 
triangle  of  cucumbers  between  the  petals.  Mayonnaise  or  French 
dressing  is  good  if  preferred. 

SHREDDED  WHEAT  SALAD 

MRS.    CHARLES   H.    SOUTHER 

Soak  as  many  halves  of  shredded  wheat  as  desired,  in  good 
rich  milk,  and  brown  in  oven.  When  cool  and  ready  to  serve  place 
two  or  three  slices  of  ripe  tomato  on  top,  overlapping  each  other. 
Cover  with  Mayonnaise  and  serve  on  water  cress. 

SAVORY  TAPIOCA.    To  Serve  with  Salads 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Put  two  ounces  of  tapioca  into  a  slow  oven  with  one  pint  of  stock 
and  let  it  swell  for  an  hour;  then  mix  with  it  two  onions,  boiled 
and  rubbed  to  a  puree,  and  one-half  pint  of  any  kind  of  soup  or 
gravy.  Let  it  bake  slowly  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  pieces  of  fried 
bread  placed  around  dish. 


SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSINGS  39 

CABBAGE   SALAD 

MISS   BREWER 

Remove  outside  leaves  of  cabbage.  Cut  out  center  and  chop. 
Mix  equal  parts  of  cabbage,  apple,  and  celery,  the  last  two  cut 
fine ;  moisten  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  place  in  the  cabbage 
shell.  Slit  the  shell  and  place  in  the  slits  quarters  of  red  apples, 
skin-side  out. 

SALAD  FRANCONIA 

MRS.    ARTHUR   N.    BROUGHTON 

Cover  green  peppers  with  ice  water  after  removing  seeds,  and 
chill.  Drain  and  wipe  as  dry  as  possible.  Fill  with  cream  cheese, 
mashed  and  moistened  with  cream.  Arrange  lettuce  leaves  in 
salad  bowl  and  put  on  the  leaves  small  slices  of  canned  pineapple, 
and  on  the  pineapple  the  pepper,  cut  in  one-third-inch  slices. 
Serve  with  French  dressing. 

CORN   SALAD 

MRS.    B.    W.    FIELD 

18  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  from  cob    4  medium-sized  onions,   3  red 
J^  cup  of  salt  peppers,   1  small  white  cab- 

2  cups  of  sugar  bage,  all  chopped  fine 

Y%  pound  of  ground  mustard  1  quart  of  cider  vinegar 

Mix  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Seal  in  jars.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves. 

TOMATOES  IN  ASPIC 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

From  the  stem  end  of  small  round  tomatoes  scoop  out  a  bit  of 
the  fruit  and  fill  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  chopped  hard- 
boiled  egg.  Do  not  let  the  filling  stand  out  beyond  the  fruit.  Put 
small  molds  or  cups  on  ice  and  pour  in  one-eighth  inch  of  clear 
aspic  jelly.  When  set  place  a  tomato  in  each,  the  filled  side  upper- 
most, and  pour  more  jelly  around  and  over  it.  Ice  well,  then  turn 
onto  a  dish,  garnish  with  lettuce  or  water  cress,  and  serve  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing. 


40  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

TOMATO  JELLY 

C.    H. 

To  make  tomato  jelly,  put  ripe  tomatoes  into  a  saucepan  and 
simmer  gently  until  they  are  reduced  to  a  pulp,  stirring  all  the 
time.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  warm  the  juice,  and  add  to  each 
pint  one-half  pound  of  fine  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon. 
Boil  all  together  until  it  jells. 

TOMATO  JELLY 

MRS.    A.    F.    NAZRO 

Set  three-fourths  box  of  gelatine  to  soak  in  one-half  cup  of  cold 
water.  Cook  for  ten  minutes  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one-half  onion, 
one  stalk  of  celery,  one  bay  leaf,  two  cloves,  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar 
and  the  gelatine.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Strain  and  turn  into  small 
cups  or  molds.    Serve  on  lettuce  with  Mayonnaise. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE 

"  The  turnpike  road  to  people's  hearts  I  find 
Lies  through  their  mouths, 
Or  I  mistake  mankind." 

—  Dr.  Walcot. 

MIXED    CHEESE 

MRS.    C.    E.    KENDRICK 

1  cream  cheese  1  hard-boiled  egg 

Yi  bottle  of  stuffed  olives,  chopped      3^2  cup  of  chopped  nuts 

Salt  and  paprika 
Serve  with  crackers. 

CHEESE  BALLS.    To  Serve  with  Salad 

MRS.    ARTHUR   N.    BROUGHTON 

Mash  one  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  orange  juice,  adding  a 
few  drops  at  a  time.  Form  into  balls  and  roll  in  grated  orange 
rind.    Serve  on  small  toasted  crackers  and  garnish  with  cress. 

REAL  SWEDISH   CHEESE 

MRS.    CHARLES    F.    DOLE 

1  quart  of  sweet  milk  1  quart  of  sour  milk 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Heat  sweet  milk  to  boiling  point,  add  sour  milk,  and  let  it 
stand  until  the  whey  comes.  Take  out  part  of  whey  and  boil 
slowly  until  all  the  whey  is  boiled  away. 

CHEESE   CROQUETTES.     "  Extra  Good  " 

MISS    H.    J.    PEARCE 

Yl  pound  of  cheese  3^  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  scant  tablespoon  of  butter  1  tablespoon  of  milk 

1  egg,  beaten  enough  to  break  it     Dash  of  paprika 

Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  and  mold  into  small  croquettes  (eight 
in  all).    Add  a  little  milk  to  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  roll  the  cro- 

4i 


42  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

quettes  in  this  and  then  in  cracker  dust.    Fry  for  one  minute  in 
smoking-hot  fat  and  serve  immediately. 

ROMAN   GNOCCHI 

M.    C.    L. 

Yz  cup  of  cream  of  wheat  }/i  cup  of  butter 

2  egg  yolks  2  cups  of  milk 

%  cup  of  cheese 

Cook  the  cream  of  wheat  with  the  milk,  butter,  and  a  little  salt 
for  half  an  hour  in  a  double  boiler.  Stir  in  the  egg  yolks  and  half 
the  cheese  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered 
dish.  When  cool  sprinkle  with  remaining  cheese,  grated,  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

CHEESE  TOAST 

MISS   ROSAMOND   HILL   SMITH 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  2  teaspoons  of  cornstarch 

1  cup  of  thin  cream  Salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  and  mus- 

%  cup  of  grated  American  cheese        tard  to  taste 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  the  cornstarch,  salt, 
pepper,  and  mustard,  then  the  cream,  stirring  carefully  all  the 
time.  Add  cheese  last,  when  all  is  smooth  and  well  mixed,  and 
stir  until  it  is  thick  and  creamy.  Serve  poured  over  thin  pieces 
of  hot  toast. 

This  recipe  is  also  delicious  as  a*  sauce  poured  over  eggs  dropped 
on  toast. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

C.    M.    R. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  with  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  one 
heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  cup  of  milk,  slightly  warmed, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  few  grains  of  paprika  or  cayenne.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  add  one  cup  of  grated  cheese  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  not  beaten,  but  stirred  into  the  mixture.  When  cool 
add  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  fifteen 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve  immediately. 

Use  plain  mild  American  cheese.  If  soft  enough  put  it  through 
the  masher;  if  dry,  grate  it. 


EGGS  AND  CHEESE  43 


WELSH  RABBIT 

MISS    ISABELLE    H.    EARNSHAW 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  add  one  level  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  level  teaspoon  of  mustard,  and  one  level  teaspoon  of  corn- 
starch. Add  gradually  one  cup  of  cream  and  lastly  one  pound  of 
cheese,  ground  in  the  meat  chopper.    Add  a  little  paprika. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

MRS.    ARTHUR   N.    BROUGHTON 

Beat  together  five  eggs  until  light  and  add  one  cup  of  grated 
Swiss  or  mild  cheese,  one-half  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  and  three 
tablespoons  of  butter,  cut  into  bits.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  cheese  is  melted  and  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Pour  over 
hot  buttered  toast  and  serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

MRS.     E.  H.  PORTER 

Soak  one  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  in  two  scant  cups  of  milk; 
beat  three  eggs ;  add  to  milk  with  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter, 
one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  and  lastly 
one-half  pound  of  mild  cheese,  grated.  Pour  into  a  pudding  dish 
and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown 
and  serve  at  once. 

CHEESE   STRAWS 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

1  cup  of  grated  cheese  1  cup  of  flour 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  Cold  water 

Mix  together  and  add  enough  cold  water  to  roll  very  thin.  Cut 
in  narrow  strips  about  four  inches  long  and  bake  a  light  brown  in 
shallow  buttered  pans. 

CHEESE  DISH 

MRS.    CHARLES    HARRINGTON 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted  in  double  boiler.  Add  one 
cup  of  cut  cheese  and,  when  melted,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs  pre- 


44  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

viously  soaked  in  one  cup  of  milk.     Stir  well;  add  salt,  pepper, 
and  lastly  one  beaten  egg.    Serve  on  slices  of  toast  or  crackers. 

SAVORY  CHEESE 

MRS.    CHARLES    S.    PENHALLOW 

34  pound  of  Roquefort,  and  one     1  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped 
cream  cheese,  put  through  the        onion  or  chives 
ricer  1  tablespoon  of  parsley 

2  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  1  pimento,  put  through  sieve 

34  teaspoon  of  salt 

Mold  in  patty  pan  and  chill. 


CRACKER  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

E.    G.    W. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  split  cooking  crackers, 
well  buttered;  grate  American  cheese  over  them  and  season  well 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Repeat  layers  of  but- 
tered crackers,  cheese,  and  seasonings  until  dish  is  nearly  full; 
then  pour  milk  over  the  whole,  letting  it  soak  in  well.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes.  This  puffs  way  up  and  should  be  served 
immediately. 

An  egg  may  be  added  with  the  milk  if  desired. 


EGGS  AU  GRATIN 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,   JR. 

4  hard-boiled  eggs  3^  CUP  of  milk 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  ^  teaspoon  of  salt 

1)^  tablespoons  of  flour  f/g  cup  of  white  stock 

%  cup  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs   Grated  cheese 

Few  grains  of  cayenne 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  stock,  and  milk ;  add  eggs, 
finely  chopped,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Fill  buttered  ramekin  dishes 
with  tjie  mixture,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  cover  with  cracker 
crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown.  . 


EGGS  AND   CHEESE  45 


SWISS  EGGS 

S.    G.    C. 

6  eggs  34  pound  of  cheese 

1  cup  of  rich  milk  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

1  saltspoon  of  mustard  Pinch  of  cayenne  pepper 

Grate  the  cheese  and  mix  with  other  ingredients,  reserving 
enough  to  scatter  over  the  top.  Bake  in  quick  oven  in  one  large 
dish  or  in  individual  dishes. 

SPANISH   OMELET 

C.    M.    R. 

2  small  onions  4  tomatoes 

1  teaspoon  of  sugar  1  saltspoon  of  salt 

3^2  cup  of  strong  stock  (beef  juice)     2  tablespoons  of  butter 

2  small  teaspoons  of  flour  1   jar  of  mushrooms  (cut  the 

mushrooms  if  large) 

Put  on  frying  pan,  and  when  hot  put  in  the  butter.  Add  the 
flour,  then  the  onions,  cut  in  fine  slices,  the  sugar,  tomatoes,  stock, 
and  mushrooms.  Make  a  plain  omelet  and  put  this  filling  on  it, 
double  over,  and  serve. 

EGGS  A  LA  MARTIN 

C.    M.    R. 

1  cup  of  Gruyere  cheese,  grated     1  pint  of  cream  sauce,  not  too 

stiff 

Add  cheese  when  a  little  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  as  many  eggs 
as  desired  until  stiff,  then  stir  into  cream  sauce,  and  pour  into  pie 
dish.  Drop  yolks  carefully  (so  as  not  to  break)  into  mixture  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  brown.  Eggs  should  not  be  cooked  too 
hard. 

ALPINE  EGGS 

MRS.    A.    N.    BROUGHTON 

Butter  a  shallow  baking  dish  and  line  it  with  thin  slices  of 
cheese.  Break  over  this  as  many  eggs  as  desired,  being  careful 
not  to  break  the  yolks,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Chop 
fine  a  little  parsley  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ten  minutes. 


46  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

SCRAMBLED   EGGS 

M.    C.    H. 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly  with  half  a  cup  of  milk.  Melt  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  pour  in  the  eggy  and 
allow  to  scramble  with  as  little  stirring  as  possible. 

EGG  TIMBALES 

MRS.   WILLIAM    PRATT 

4  eggs  1  cup  of  cream 

}/2  dessertspoon  of  mushroom     3^2  dessertspoon  of  wine 
catsup  , 

Beat  eggs  separately;  add  catsup,  cream,  and  wine.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  timbale  molds  set  in  hot  water.  Cover  with 
paper  while  baking. 

ALEXANDRA'S  EGG  PUFFS 

MRS.    CHARLES   F.    DOLE 

Take  as  many  eggs  as  you  have  people,  and  separate  whites 
from  yolks,  keeping  yolks  whole.  Beat  whites  with  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  spoonfuls  of  white  on  a  buttered  tin,*  make 
in  each  a  hole  large  enough  to  slip  a  whole  yolk,  cover  with  beaten 
white,  and  bake  quickly.  Serve  with  cheese  sauce  or  any  sauce 
preferred. 

EGG  CUTLETS 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  5  tablespoons  of  flour 

1  cup  of  scalded  milk  1   teaspoon    of    finely   chopped 

}/2  teaspoon  of  paprika  parsley 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  %  teaspoon  of  finely  grated  onion 

8  hard-boiled  eggs  •       A  little  mustard 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  pour  on  milk  gradually,  and 
bring  to  boiling  point.    Cook  five  minutes  in  a  double  boiler. 

Cut  eggs  in  coarse  pieces  and  add  with  remaining  ingredients. 
When  cool  form  in  cutlets,  dip  in  flour,  egg,  and  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  deep  fat. 


EGGS  AND   CHEESE  47 


POACHED  EGGS 

MRS.    H.    O.    HOFMAN 

Cut  and  fry  one  onion  in  oil.  Cook  two  tablespoons  of  tomato 
in  that,  add  a  little  water,  and  poach  eggs,  without  breaking  the 
yolks. 

POTS  A  LA  CREME 

MRS.    H.    O.    HOFMAN 

1  cup  of  cream  4  egg  yolks,  beaten  in  the  cream 

Add  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  beat  all  together;  add 
one-eighth  of  a  pound  of  grated  Swiss  cheese  and  one-half  a  glass 
of  light  white  wine.  Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  ramekins,  set 
in  hot  water,  for  twenty  minutes. 

DROPPED  EGGS  IN  PASTRY  SQUARES 

MISS    R.    H.    SMITH 

Drop  eggs  as  for  poaching  and  take  them  out  before  they  are 
thoroughly  cooked.  Cut  little  squares  of  very  thin  puff  paste, 
put  eggs  in  the  center,  turn  the  four  corners  to  the  center,  and 
fry  in  a  frying  basket  until  pastry  is  a  light  brown;  then  serve. 

TOMATO   SAUCE  FOR  OMELETS 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

Cook  three  tablespoons  of  butter  with  one  tablespoon  each  of 
chopped  onion  and  chopped  pepper;  add  one-half  can  of  toma- 
toes and  simmer  until  thick.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  one  tablespoon  each  of  vinegar  and  chopped  olives. 

CORN    OMELET 

MISS   MARGARET   MORSE 

4  eggs  4  tablespoons  of  grated  green  corn 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  Add  corn  to  yolks 
and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Add  whites,  beaten  stiff,  and 
bake  in  omelet  pan  until  set. 


48  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

Make  cream  sauce  separately;  add  one  tablespoon  of  grated 
corn  to  one  pint  of  sauce,  and  seasonings.  Cook  together  for 
three  or  four  minutes  and  pour  around  omelet  in  a  deep  platter. 

If  desired  add  one  tablespoon  of  chopped  green  peppers  to  one 
pint  of  sauce. 

EGG   TOMATOES 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

Choose  good-sized  tomatoes  and  slice  off  the  stem  end,  scoop 
out  some  of  the  inside,  and  drop  a  raw  egg  into  each.  Cover  with 
butter,  seasonings,  and  crumbs  and  bake  until  egg  is  set.  Gar- 
nish with  small  piece  of  parsley. 


DESSERTS 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING 

MRS.   J.    SIDNEY   STONE 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  and  one  and  one-half  squares  of  un- 
sweetened chocolate  in  a  double  boiler.  When  milk  has  reached 
scalding  point  beat  the  mixture  with  a  wire  whisk  until  smooth; 
then  add  one-third  cup  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
two  tablespoons  of  granulated  gelatine  which  has  been  soaked  ten 
minutes  in  three  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  As  soon  as  gelatine  has 
dissolved  strain  mixture  into  a  mold  first  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Chill,  remove  from  mold,  and  pour  around  it  the  following  sauce: 

Mint  Marshmallow  Sauce 

Put  one-fourth  cup  of  boiling  water  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
into  a  small  saucepan  and  boil  until  it  has  reached  consistency 
of  a  thin  syrup.  Add  eight  marshmallows,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and 
pour  mixture  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  the  white  of 
one  egg,  beaten  stiff,  but  not  dry.  Color  light  green,  using  vege- 
table coloring,  and  add  one  drop  of  oil  of  peppermint. 

CHOCOLATE    PUDDING 

MISS    MARY    R.    JOSLIN 

2Yi  cups  of  milk  2  cups  of  bread  crumbs 

2  squares  of  chocolate  3^2  CUP  of  sugar 

3  eggs 

Scald  the  milk,  add  chocolate,  grated,  and  bread  crumbs.  Take 
from  fire  and  add  the  sugar  and  beaten  egg  yolks.  Bake  in  pud- 
ding dish  fifteen  minutes. 

Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  three  tablespoons 
of  sugar;  spread  over  the  pudding  and  brown. 

Serve  hot  with  Hard  Sauce. 

49 


50  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

%  cup  of  sugar  %  CUP  of  milk 

1  cup  of  flour  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  of  butter  1 J^  squares  of  chocolate,  melted 

}4  teaspoon  of  soda 

Beat  egg  and  add  sugar.  Sift  soda  with  flour,  add  to  egg  and 
sugar  alternately  with  the  milk;  then  add  melted  chocolate,  and 
last  the  melted  butter.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Steam  one  hour  and  serve  with  Hard  or  Egg  Sauce. 


CHOCOLATE  TART 

MRS.    F.    C.   JILLSON 

Y2  pound  cake  of  Maillard's  un-     53^   tablespoons   of    powdered 
sweetened  chocolate   (use  no        sugar 
other)  3  eggs 

To  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  add  the  sugar,  then  the  chocolate, 
grated,  and  then  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  (No  other  in- 
gredients.) Bake  in  two  large  cake  tins  in  a  fairly  hot  oven.  Serve 
with  one-half  pint  of  whipped  cream  between  the  layers. 


APPLE  DOWDY 

MISS    H.    J.    PEARCE 

1  cup  of  rye  meal  1  cup  of  graham  meal 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 

Y2  teaspoon  of  soda  3^2  peck  of  apples 

Mix  with  enough  milk  to  make  a  dough  which  can  be  rolled. 
Cut  apples  in  quarters  and  bake  in  a  deep  dish,  rounded  full  and 
covered  with  dough.    Sweeten  apples  either  before  or  after  baking. 

Bake  from  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  Take 
off  crust  at  once,  break  in  pieces,  and  press  into  the  hot  apple; 
then  cover  and  allow  to  steam  and  cool. 

If  made  in  the  morning  it  may  be  used  at  night  for  dessert,  or 
it  will  make  a  fine  breakfast  dish.    Will  keep  for  days. 

Serve  with  the  richest  cream  possible  to  procure. 


DESSERTS  5 1 

DULING  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

MRS.    CHARLES    H.    CURTIS 

2  cups  of  flour  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

1  tablespoon  of  lard  %  cup  of  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  2  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar 

3  tart  apples,  chopped 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  and  work  into  these  the 
lard  and  butter.  Make  a  dough,  using  the  milk,  and  roll  out  into  a 
sheet  one-half  inch  thick.  Brush  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Spread  with  chopped  apple, 
roll  as  for  jelly  roll,  and  cut  across  into  twelve  slices.  Place  these 
on  end  in  buttered  baking  pan  and  pour  over  them  the  following 
sauce : 

Sauce  for  Duling  Dumplings 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

1  tablespoon  of  flour  Yi  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  cup  of  hot  water  34  lemon,  sliced  thin 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  and  salt.  Add  butter,  lemon,  and  hot  water. 
Mix  thoroughly,  cook  three  minutes,  and  pour  over  raw  dumplings. 


APPLE  PUDDING 

S .    S .    B . 

Pare  and  core  six  apples.  Scrape  out  some  of  the  inside  from 
each  apple  and  mix  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  some  grated  lemon  peel, 
chopped  seedless  raisins,  and  chopped  nuts.  Fill  cavities  with  mix- 
ture ;  place  in  well-buttered  dish ;  pour  over  one-half  glass  of  water, 
one-half  glass  of  Sherry,  and  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  and  bake 
until  partly  tender,  basting  frequently. 

Cream  together  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar ; 
add  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one-third  of  a  small  loaf  of  bread 
which  has  been  soaked  in  milk,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon, 
and  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Pour  this  over  apples 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  about  forty-five  minutes. 


52  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

INDIVIDUAL  APPLE  PUDDING 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Line  individual  molds  with  very  thin  bread  and  butter  cut  in 
lady  fingers,  fill  with  apples,  sweeten  and  flavor,  cover  with 
bread,  and  bake  in  oven.    Serve  with  liquid  sauce. 

APPLE   CHARLOTTE 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

Pare  and  chop  six  or  eight  large  sour  apples.  Butter  a  pudding 
dish  and  cover  bottom  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  small  bits  of 
butter.  Then  put  in  a  layer  of  apple  with  sprinkling  of  sugar  and 
nutmeg.  Repeat  layers  of  crumbs,  etc.,  until  all  apple  is  used, 
ending  with  crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Pour  over  the  whole  one 
cup  of  cold  water  and  bake  half  an  hour,  or  until  apple  is  soft. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

APPLE  PUDDING      . 

MRS.    CAMPBELL 

.  One  quart  of  apples,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  in  pudding  dish  with 
one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  and  flavoring  of  nutmeg. 
Bake  twenty  minutes,  remove  from  oven,  and  cover  with  the 
following 

Batter 

1  egg  1  large  tablespoon  of  melted  butter 

}/2  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 

Y<L  teaspoon  of  soda  1  cup  of  flour 
Salt 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven  and  serve  with  Hard  Sauce. 

APPLE  SOUFFLE 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter  and  one  cup  of  sugar  creamed  to- 
gether as  for  cake.  Beat  into  this  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs.  Add  six  large  apples  or  eight  small  apples, 
pared  and  grated,  and  mix  well.     Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs 


DESSERTS  S3 

very  stiff  and  fold  into  mixture.  Bake  slowly  about  three  quarters 
of  an  hour,  or  until,  when  tested  with  a  clean  straw,  the  straw 
will  come  out  without  sticking. 

CUSTARD   SOUFFLE 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

3  tablespoons  of  butter  }/i  cup  of  flour 

1  cup  of  scalded  milk  4  eggs 

34  cup  of  sugar 

Melt  butter;  add  flour  and  gradually  hot  milk.  When  well 
thickened  pour  onto  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored,  and  mixed  with  sugar.  Cool,  then  cut  and  fold  in  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into  buttered  pudding 
dish  and  bake  from  thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Take  from  oven  and  serve  at  once.  Serve  with  Creamy  or  Foamy 
Sauce. 

Foamy  Sauce 

Yi  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  of  wine 

Cream  the  butter;  add  sugar  gradually,  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
wine.     Beat  while  heating  over  hot  water. 

WASHINGTON  PIE 

MRS.    WILLIAM    O.    WITHERELL 

Two  eggs,  beaten  very  light;  one  cup  of  sugar,  added  gradually; 
one  cup  of  flour,  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  one 
teaspoon  of  vanilla;  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  one  teaspoon  of 
butter,  boiled  together  and  added  last. 

RICE  PUDDING 

MRS.    BALDERSTON 

Take  one  even  tablespoon  of  uncooked  rice  to  one  pint  of  milk. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  dark-brown  sugar.  Grate  nutmeg  over  the 
top.  Cook  slowly  in  not  too  hot  an  oven,  and  when  skin  forms 
stir  in  well  two  or  three  times  until  rice  is  well  cooked.  Then  allow 
the  pudding  to  finish  cooking,  keeping  the  skin  on  top  at  the  last. 


54  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

COFFEE    SOUFFLfi 

MRS.   A.   N.   BROUGHTON 

1  cup  of  coffee  %  cup  of  scalded  milk 

Yi  cup  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  Knox's  gelatine 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately 

Soak  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
hot  milk  and  coffee  and  cook  in  double  boiler  for  a  few  minutes. 
Add  sugar  and  egg  yolks,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Beat  thoroughly  and  turn  into  mold. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 


LEMON  RICE  PUDDING 

MISS    CAROLINE   B.    CLARK 

One  cup  of  rice,  boiled  in  water  with  a  little  salt.  When  boiled 
add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  and  the  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon.  Put  all  in  baking  dish.  To  the  whites  of  eggs 
add  juice  of  the  lemon  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  beat 
to  a  froth,  spread  over  the  rice,  and  bake  ten  minutes,  or  until 
brown. 

DELICIOUS  RICE  PUDDING 

MRS.    HENRY   E.    BELLEW 

To  one  quart  of  boiling  salted  water  add  three-fourths  cup  of 
rice  and  boil  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Drain,  place  in  shallow 
pan,  and  set  in  oven  for  a  very  few  minutes.  Heat  two  cups  of 
milk  and  add  to  this  one-fourth  cup  of  sugar,  melted  to  a  light- 
brown  syrup  by  placing  in  omelet  pan  over  hot  fire  and  stirring 
constantly.  Add  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  strain  into  baking  dish, 
add  rice,  and  bake  as  you  would  cup  custard.  Serve  cold,  cut 
into  neat  squares,  with  Foamy  Sauce, 

Foamy  Sauce 

Generous  J/£  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Beat  all  while  heating  over  hot  water.  Add  two  tablespoons  of 
Port  or  Sherry  wine. 


DESSERTS  55 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  pint  of  rich  cream  3^  cup  of  sugar 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  Sponge  cake 

Mix  the  cream,  vanilla,  and  sugar.  Place  the  bowl  in  ice  water, 
and  when  chilled  whip  to  a  stiff  froth  and  skim  off  the  froth  into 
a  sieve.  Drain  and  whip  again  that  which  has  drained  through. 
When  nearly  all  whipped  line  a  glass  dish  with  lady  fingers  or 
sponge  cake,  fill  with  the  cream,  put  cubes  of  wine  jelly  or  any 
bright  jelly  on  the  cream,  and  keep  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

INDIAN  PUDDING.     "Good" 

S.    G.    C. 

3  tablespoons  of  tapioca  1  pint  of  hot  milk 

3  level  tablespoons  of  Indian  meal     3^  CUP  of  sugar 

J£  cup  of  molasses  1  pint  of  cold  milk 

Small  piece  of  butter  Saltspoon  of  salt 

Soak  tapioca  in  one  cup  of  water  for  two  hours.  Heat  one  pint 
of  milk,  add  salt,  and  add  slowly  the  Indian  meal.  Boil  a  few 
seconds  and  pour  over  the  tapioca.  Add  other  ingredients  and 
bake  slowly  four  hours. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE  PUDDING 

MISS    LAURA    KELSEY 

4  slices  of  stale  chocolate  cake     3  cups  of  milk 

Yi  cup  of  sugar  }/±  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  egg  3  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 

2  tablespoons  of  Baker's  cocoa  1  tablespoon  of  Bensdorp's  cocoa 
Yi  teaspoon  of  vanilla  3^  pint  of  whipping  cream 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  cocoa  and  sugar  together,  dis- 
solve in  some  of  the  scalded  milk,  and  add  to  the  rest.  Moisten 
cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  thicken  boiling  liquid,  adding 
the  salt.  Beat  the  egg  very  light  and  stir  into  the  mixture,  tak- 
ing care  not  to  let  the  egg  touch  the  side  of  the  kettle.  Remove 
from  fire  and  add  vanilla.  Break  cake  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
pour  the  hot  custard  over  it,  stirring  it  well  together.  When  cold 
cover  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste. 


56  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  one-half  cup  of 
sugar;  six  prunes,  chopped  fine.  Beat  all  together  and  put  in 
mold.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes. 
Serve  cold,  surrounded  with  whipped  cream. 

LEMON  BREAD  PUDDING 

MRS.    T.    G.    REES 

1  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  soaked     Yolks  of  2  eggs 

10  minutes  in  1  pint  of  milk  J/£  CUP  of  sugar,  beaten  with  eggs 
Pinch  of  salt  1  teaspoon  of  butter 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

Bake  until  firm,  then  partly  cool.  Mix  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  stiff,  with  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  and  put  on  top.    Brown  in  oven. 

SIMPLE  PUDDING 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

2  cups  of  milk  %  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar  1  eggf  well  beaten 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon     2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 

Put  a  little  jam  or  stewed  apple  in  dish,  pour  in  the  well-beaten 
mixture,  and  bake. 

ENGLISH   MARMALADE  PUDDING 

M.    C. 

4  ounces  of  bread  crumbs  4  ounces  of  finely  chopped  suet 

4  ounces  of  orange  marmalade       2  ounces  of  sugar 
2  eggs  Milk     Salt 

Mix  well  together  the  bread  crumbs,  suet,  sugar,  and  a  good 
pinch  of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the  marmalade  and  milk, 
and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients.  When  well  mixed  turn  into  a 
greased  mold  or  basin,  cover  with  a  greased  paper,  and  steam 
from  two  to  two  and  a  quarter  hours.  Serve  with  cornflour, 
marmalade,  or  other  suitable  sauce. 


DESSERTS  57 

BREAD   AND   BUTTER  PUDDING 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

Two  large  slices  of  bread,  buttered  on  both  sides.  Pour  over 
this  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes; 
then  add  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  molasses,  and  one  quart  of  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  pour  into 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MARLBOROUGH  PUDDING 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

Y  cup  of  butter  1  grated  lemon  peel  and  pulp 

Y  cup  of  sugar  6    large    apples,    stewed    and 
3  eggs  strained 

Mix  and  bake  with  or  without  a  crust. 

COLLEGE  DUMPLINGS 

MISS    S.    L.    EDWARDS 

Y2  loaf  of  bread  1  pint  of  milk 

Y2  cup  of  butter  %  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  currants  1   cup   of  raisins,   stoned    and 

Y  cup  of  citron  chopped 

3  eggs  Rind  of  1  lemon 

Y  teaspoon  of  clove  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

Break  bread  in  pieces  and  soak  in  two-thirds  of  milk.  Melt 
butter  in  rest  of  milk;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  and  add  all 
to  the  soaked  bread  with  spices  and  fruit.    Bake  in  cups. 

ANNIES   STEAMED   PUDDING 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

Stir  four  ounces  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  two  ounces  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  then  add  four  ounces  of  sifted  flour.  Beat  all  together, 
adding  two  well-beaten  eggs.  Add  two  large  tablespoons  of  orange 
marmalade  and  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract.  Mix  all  well  to- 
gether and  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one 
teaspoon  of  cold  water.  Put  in  a  well-buttered  mold  and  steam 
two  hours.    Serve  with  Grandmother's  Pudding  Sauce. 


58  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

CHRISTMAS  PUDDING 

MRS.    CAMPBELL 

1  cup  of  molasses  34  cup  of  suct  or  butter 

%  cup  of  sour  milk  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract 

1  cup  of  raisins  34  cup  of  currants 
34  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  34  teaspoon  of  clove 
4  cups  of  flour  Nutmeg  and  citron 

Steam  four  hours. 

FRUIT  PUDDING 

MRS.    C.    FRANK   ALLEN 

4  cups  of  bread  crumbs  134  cups  of  flour 

34  cup  of  butter  1  small  cup  of  sugar 

34  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

34  teaspoon  of  salt  334  cups  of  milk 

2  cups  of  raisins  1  cup  of  currants  and  citron   » 

Mix  thoroughly,  steam  about  three  hours,  then  take  off  lid 
and  set  in  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  hot,  with  Hard 
Sauce. 

Hard  Sauce 

Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter;  add  one  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  two  tablespoons  of  cream. 


PLUM   PUDDING 

MRS.    H.    DE   FOREST   LOCKWOOD 

134  pounds  of  bread  1  pound  of  sugar 

1  pound  of  butter  3  pints  of  milk 

2  pounds  of  seeded  raisins  1  pound  of  currants 
1  pound  of  citron  9  eggs 

1  wineglass  of  brandy  Salt,  mace,  clove,  cinnamon, 

34  teaspoon  of  soda  and  nutmeg  to  taste 

Bake  in  pudding  crock  four  hours  in  slow  oven. 
This  will  keep  months  and  is  good  sliced  and  warmed  on  spider 
or  in  oven.     Half  the  quantity,  using  fr<re  eggs,  is  enough  for  a 


DESSERTS  59 

medium-sized  pudding.    The  whole  rule  makes  one  large  and  one 
small  pudding. 

SUET  PUDDING 

S.    G.    C. 

1  cup  of  suet,  chopped  fine  1  cup  of  molasses 

1  cup  of  milk  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  1  cup  of  raisins 

V/2  cups  of  flour 

Steam  three  or  four  hours. 

Currants  and  nuts,  also  candied  lemon  or  orange  peel,  may  be 
added. 

SUET    PUDDING 

MRS.    H.    M.    PARSHLEY 

1  cup  of  raisins  1  cup  of  flour,  sifted  with  Y2 

1  cup  of  crumbs  teaspoon  of    ginger   and    % 

1  cup  of  finely  chopped  suet  level  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  milk 

1  egg>  well  beaten  2  juicy  apples 

Citron 

Mix  well  and  steam  three  hours  in  a  greased  double  boiler. 
Serve  with  Hard  Sauce. 

RICH  PASTRY 

L.    C. 

1  cup  of  butter  2  cups  of  pastry  flour 

Chop  until  it  is  like  sawdust,  then  turn  in  one  tumbler  of  ice 
water,  and  roll  out. 

MOCK   CHERRY  PIE 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

1  cup  of  cranberries  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  of  flour 

}/2  cup  of  seeded  raisins 

Cook  cranberries,  water,  and  raisins  until  soft,  and  add  sugar 
and  flour  while  hot.  Cool  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  one 
teaspoon  of  soda.    Stir  well  and  bake  with  two  crusts. 


60  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

MARLBOROUGH  FILLING.     For  Pies  and  Patties 

MISS   ROSAMOND   MAY 

12  apples  12  eggs 

%  pound  of  butter,  washed  %  pound  of  sugar 

Grated  rind  of  2  lemons  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Steam  apples  and  rub  through  sieve  on  butter  and  sugar.  Mix 
warm ;  then  stir  in  eggs.  Put  in  pastry  as  for  custard  pies  and  small 
patties.    Brown  in  oven. 

To  be  made  in  the  fall,  when  apples  are  at  their  best. 

MINCE  MEAT 

L.    C. 

6  pounds  of  round  of  beef,  mak-     2  pounds  of  chopped  raisins 
ing  3  pounds  when  minced  2  pounds  of  chopped  apples 

2  pounds  of  currants  3^2  pint  of  cider 

1  pound  of  suet,  chopped  very  fine  4  teaspoons  of  cloves 

1  pint  of  brandy  Sugar,  salt,  cinnamon,  and  mace 

1  pint  of  wine  to  taste 

3  nutmegs 

MINCE  MEAT 

MRS.    B.    W.    MUNROE 

lYl  pounds  of  tongue  2  pounds  of  suet 

2  pounds  of  chopped  apple  2  pounds  of  sugar 

3  pounds  of  chopped  raisins  2  pounds  of  currants 
34  ounce  of  cloves  1  ounce  of  cinnamon 
1  ounce  of  mace  1  nutmeg 

1  full  quart  of  wine  1  full  glass  of  good  brandy 

Citron  to  taste  Salt,  "  and  a  good  deal  of  it! " 

More  sugar  if  desired 

This  is  an  old  Plymouth  recipe. 

Do  not  cook  it  again  after  it  is  put  together. 

NUT  PUDDING 

MRS.    SAMUEL   B.    CAPEN 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  one  cup  of  water 
boiled  together.    Soak  one-half  box  of  gelatine  in  one  cup  of  cold 


DESSERTS  6 1 

water  and  pour  boiling  syrup  over  it.  Strain  and  set  away  to 
cool.  When  nearly  hardened  add  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs 
and  the  chopped  meats  of  twelve  English  walnuts.  Pour  in  large 
or  in  individual  molds  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

IMPERIAL  PUDDING 

MRS.    G.    T.    REES 

Cut  plain  white  cake  in  slices.  Toss  on  the  slices  one-half  pint 
of  cream,  whipped,  sweetened,  and  slightly  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Set  in  refrigerator.  When  time  to  serve  pour  over  it  warm  Choc- 
olate Sauce. 

Chocolate  Sauce 

Two  squares  of  chocolate  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  boiling  water; 
one  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Cook  five  minutes  and  flavor  with 
one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

LEMON   CUSTARD   PIE 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour 
Piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wal-    1  cup  of  milk 

nut  2  eggs 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon     Pinch  of  salt 

Rub  together  butter,  sugar,  and  flour;  add  egg  yolks,  lemon,  and 
milk;  and  lastly  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  one  hour 
in  moderate  oven,  using  no  top  crust. 

LEMON  PIE 

MRS.    T.    W.    TUCKER 

V/2  cups  of  sugar  1  rounded  tablespoon  of  corn- 
3^2  cup  of  lemon  juice  starch 

2  cups  of  boiling  water  1  good  tablespoon  of  butter 
Yolks  of  2  eggs  Grated  peel  of  13^  lemons 

Boil  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  hot  water  for  five  minutes.  Remove 
from  stove;  add  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  peel,  and  last  the  egg 
yolks,  beaten  very  light.  Cool  before  putting  into  crust.  Use 
whites  of  eggs  for  top. 


62  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

GREEN  TOMATO   PIE 

MRS.    M.    W.    SHORE 

Lay  pastry  in  pie  dish  and  fill  with  sliced  green  tomatoes. 
Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  pinch  of  salt.  Add  one  tablespoon 
of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Cover  and 
bake  thoroughly. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  PIE 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

2  eggs  1  cup  of  sugar 

J/2  cup  of  milk  Piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

V/l  teaspoons  of  baking  powder     2  cups  of  flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  egg  yolks,  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder,  and  milk. 

Cream  for  Filling 

}/2  pint  of  milk  1  level  tablespoon  of  cornstarch 

Y2  CUP  of  sugar  2  large  tablespoons  of  shredded 

1  egg  cocoanut 

Put  milk  in  double  boiler  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Beat  egg  and 
sugar  together,  add  cornstarch,  and  add  to  boiling  milk;  then  add 
cocoanut  and  boil  five  minutes. 

Frosting 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  for 
stiff  frosting.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  cocoanut  and,  after  it  is  on 
the  pie,  set  a  moment  in  oven  to  brown. 

CRANBERRY  PIE 

MRS.    H.    O.    HOFMAN 

1  cup  of  cranberries,  chopped  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  raisins 

2  tablespoons  of  water  2  Uneeda  biscuits  or  2  round 
3^2  teaspoon  of  vanilla  crackers,  rolled 

Few  drops  of  almond  extract 


DESSERTS  63 

RAISIN   PUFFS 

MRS.    G.    W.    ROLLINS 

1  egg  }/2  cup  of  milk 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 

3  even  teaspoons  of  baking  powder    %  cup  of  raisins 
}/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla  1  cup  of  flour 

Steam  forty-five  minutes  in  buttered  cups.    Serve  with  sauce. 

ORANGE  PUFFS 

MRS.    W.    B.    RUSSELL 

Y2  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  sugar 

2  cups  of  flour  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
2  eggs  %  cup  of  milk 

3^2  teaspoon  of  orange  extract 
Serve  hot  with  the  following 

Orange  Sauce 

Mix  one-half  cup  of  sugar  with  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of 
cornstarch  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  one  cup  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  five  minutes.  Add  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  two  oranges  and  two  tablespoons  of  butter. 

MOCHA  TART 

MRS.    F.    C.    JILLSON 

4  eggs  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar 

1  scant  cup  of  flour  2  tablespoons  of  coffee  extract 

1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Stir  yolks  of  eggs  with  sugar;  add  flour  mixed  with  baking 
powder  and  then  the  extract.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  add  last.    Bake  in  two  or  three  layer  cake  pans. 

Filling 

One-half  pint  of  cream  and  two  teaspoons  of  coffee  extract. 
Sweeten  to  taste,  with  powdered  sugar. 


64  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

MARIA'S  STRAWBERRY   SHORT   CAKE 

M.    C.    H. 

2  cups  of  flour  Yi  cup  of  milk 

2  tablespoons  of  lard  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  V/2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Bake  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  in  a  good  hot  oven.  Split  and  fill 
with  mashed  and  sweetened  berries.  Cover  with  whipped  cream 
and  garnish  with  whole  berries. 

SHORT  CAKE 

MRS.    EVERIT 

1  heaping  pint  of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder        2  tablespoons  of  sugar 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  tablespoon  of  lard 

1  cup  of  milk  1  egg 

Mix  dry  ingredients  and  sift  thoroughly.  Rub  in  butter  and 
lard.  Mix  milk  and  egg  together  and  mix  lightly  into  dry  mix- 
ture. Spread  in  shallow  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Split  and  fill  with  mashed  and  sweetened  berries 
or  fruit.    Cover  top  with  whipped  cream. 

ITALIAN   CREAM 

MISS    S.    L.    EDWARDS 

1  box  of  gelatine  1  quart  of  milk 

1  pint  of  cream,  whipped  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  wine 

Soak  gelatine  in  milk  and  add  sugar,  wine,  and  cream. 

COFFEE   CREAM 

MRS.    HENRY   L.    RAND 
A  delicious  dessert  and  simple  to  make. 

}/%  box  of  gelatine  1  cup  of  sugar 

}/2  pint  of  milk  1  cup  of  strong  hot  coffee 

1  pint  of  cream  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 


DESSERTS  65 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  cold  water  and  soak  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  pour  over  it  the  boiling  coffee  and  add  the  sugar,  stirring 
until  dissolved.  Let  it  stand  until  it  is  cool.  While  it  is  cooling 
whip  the  cream.  Add  first  the  milk  and  then  the  cream. 
Stir  carefully  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  last  add  the  vanilla. 
Turn  into  a  mold  and  put  it  in  the  ice  chest  to  harden.  If  made 
early  in  the  day  it  will  be  ready  to  serve  by  six  o'clock. 

EGG   CREAM 

MRS.    J.    SIDNEY    STONE 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  Y2  lemon 
Separate  yolks  and  beat  with  sugar  until  well  mixed;  then  put 
in  lemon  juice  and  rind  and  place  the  bowl  over  the  fire  in  a  dish 
of  boiling  water.  Stir  slowly  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  stir  until  the  whole  resembles 
a  very  thick  cream.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  into  glass  dish 
and  set  away  to  cool. 

PINEAPPLE   CREAM 

MRS.    E.    P.    GERRY 

One  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  chopped.  Boil  the  juice  with  one 
cup  of  sugar.  Dissolve  one-half  package  of  Knox's  gelatine,  add 
to  syrup,  and  then  add  pineapple.  When  beginning  to  jell  add 
one  pint  of  cream. 

One-half  can  and  one-half  pint  of  cream  will  make  one  mold. 
If  more  fruit  is  liked  use  full-sized  can  to  one-half  pint  of  cream. 

Peach,  with  the  addition  of  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  makes  a 
good  variation. 

LEMON   CREAM 

MISS    L.    M.    HEWINS 

Juice  and  pulp  of  3  lemons  3^  pint  of  cold  water 

6  eggs,  beaten  separately  Yi  pound  of  sugar 

Strain  the  mixture  into  a  farina  kettle  and  stir  until  it  thickens. 
Serve  cold  in  glass  cups. 


66  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

STRAWBERRY  SPONGE 

MRS.    T.    G.    REES 

Hull  one  quart  of  strawberries,  sprinkle  with  one  cup  of  sugar, 
and  let  stand  for  an  hour.  Cover  one-half  box  of  gelatine  with 
one-half  cup  of  cold  water.  Mash  berries  and  press  out  all  the 
juice.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  with  one  cup  of  boiling  water;  add 
the  juice  of  one  lemon,  the  strawberry  juice,  with  more  sugar  if 
desirable,  and  enough  water  to  make  fully  three  cups  of  liquid 
in  all.  When  cold  and  beginning  to  jell  beat  in  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  stiffly  beaten.    Mold  and  serve  with  boiled  custard. 

BLANC  MANGE 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

1  quart  of  milk  4  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  dis- 

}/2  cup  of  sugar  solved  in  milk 

Y2  teaspoon  of  salt  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Cook  very  thoroughly  and  mold.  Serve  with  stewed  or  preserved 
fruit,  or  with  chopped  Canton  ginger. 

"THE   CLERGY'S  DELIGHT" 

MISS    ELIZABETH   B.    COMINS 

To  the  juice  of  one  orange  add  an  equal  amount  of  Sherry  wine 
and  sweeten  to  taste.  Shred  two  oranges  with  a  silver  fork.  Take 
twelve  lady  fingers,  separate  them,  dip  each  half  in  the  orange 
juice,  and  place  two  rows  of  four  each  in  a  shallow  glass  dish; 
cover  them  with  the  shredded  orange  and  sprinkle  lightly  with 
sugar.  Repeat  the  process  with  the  rest  of  the  lady  fingers,  re- 
versing the  direction  of  the  alternate  layers.  Place  in  ice  chest, 
and  just  before  serving  cover  with  one-half  pint  of  whipped  cream, 
flavored  with  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste,  or  with  one  pint  of  vanilla 
ice  cream. 

WINE  JELLY 

MRS.    C.    L.    RIDDLE 

One-half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  boiling 
water.  Stir  until  dissolved  and  add  one  cup  of  boiling  water,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  wine,  and  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon. 


DESSERTS  67 

ORANGE  JELLY 

MRS.    C.    L.    RIDDLE 

2  cups  of  orange  juice  (no  more)     Y2  paper  of  Cox's  gelatine,  dis- 
Juice  of  Y2  lemon  solved  vnV/i  cups  of  water 

13^2  cups  of  sugar 
When  gelatine  is  dissolved  add  the  juice  and  sugar.    Place  over 
the  fire  in  porcelain-lined  stew  pan  and  bring  to  boiling  point,  no 
more.    Remove  at  once,  pour  into  mold,  and  set  away  to  cool. 

COFFEE  JELLY 

MRS.    C.    L.    RIDDLE 

Two  cups  of  good  hot  coffee;  one-half  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
soaked  in  enough  water  to  soften;  one  cup  of  sugar.  Pour  coffee, 
while  hot,  onto  the  soaked  gelatine,  stir  in  the  sugar,  and  let 
come  to  a  boil. 

MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING 

MRS.    C.    H.    SOUTHER 

Y  pint  of  cream,  whipped  Y  pound  of  marshmallows,  cut 

1  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts        in  pieces 

Mix  all  together  and  put  away  to  cool,  in  mold  if  preferred. 
Serve  with  the  following 

Sauce 

Boil  one  cup  of  water  and  two  cups  of  sugar;  cool  and  add  one 
cup  of  Claret. 

Pour  around  the  pudding  or  serve  separately. 

MARSHMALLOW  DESSERT 

MRS.    PAUL   FOLSOM 

Y2  pint  of  heavy  cream,  whipped  Y  pound  of  marshmallows 

stiff  1  can  of  Hawaiian  sliced  pine- 
Sweetening  to  taste  apple 
Y2  pound  of  English  walnuts  Maraschino  cherries 

2  teaspoons  of  Sherry 

Cut  marshmallows  and  nuts,  not  very  fine.  Mix  first  five  in- 
gredients, place  portions  on  slices  of  pineapple,  and  arrange 
cherries  on  top. 


68  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

A  WHITE  DESSERT 

MRS.    CHARLES    H.    SOUTHER 

Turn  a  glass  of  raspberry  jam  into  the  center  of  a  chop  dish 
and  cover  with  whipped  cream.  Then  heap  spoonfuls  of  hot  or 
cold  well-seasoned  rice  around  it. 

TRILBY  PUDDING 

MRS.    A.    J.    PETERS 

Cut  one-fourth  pound  of  marshmallows  in  quarters  and  soak 
in  one-half  pint  of  cream,  whipped.  Place  on  ice  for  two  or  three 
hours  and  just  before  serving  stir  in  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts, 
a  small  bottle  of  Maraschino  cherries,  drained  and  cut,  and  one 
wineglass  of  (Somerset)  Sherry.  Serve  in  glass  cups  and  decorate 
with  cherry. 

"SPIFF!!" 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

In  the  bottom  of  a  quart  bowl  place  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread 
(baker's  bread  is  best)  from  which  the  crusts  have  been  cut. 
Have  ready  crushed  berries,  hot  and  sweetened,  with  plenty  of 
juice ;  pour  over  bread,  add  another  layer,  and  repeat  until  bowl  is 
full,  having  bread  on  top.  There  should  be  enough  juice  to 
moisten  all  the  bread.    Put  on  ice.    Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Especially  good  with  raspberries  or  blueberries. 

Raspberries,  currants,  blueberries,  and  blackberries  combine 
well.    Add  currant  jelly  if  currants  cannot  be  obtained. 

MERINGUES 

MRS.    H.    DE    FOREST    LOCKWOOD 

Two  ounces  of  granulated  sugar  to  the  white  of  one  absolutely 
fresh  egg.  Beat  egg  very  light  and  add  sugar  after  beating,  barely 
stirring  it  in.  Drop  on  buttered  paper  on  tin  sheets  and  bake 
in  slow  oven  until  done.  Break  in  the  under  side  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream. 

JELLIED   APPLES 

MRS.    E.    U.    HARRINGTON 

Pare,  quarter,  core,  and  slice  enough  apples  to  make  a  generous 
quart,  and  put  in  an  earthen  baking  dish  with  sugar  in  alternate 


DESSERTS  69 

layers.  Use  about  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  sugar.  Pour  in 
one-half  cup  of  water,  cover  close,  and  bake  three  hours  in  a  slow 
oven.  Have  ready  one-fourth  package  of  gelatine,  softened  in 
one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  of 
boiling  water  or  hot  juice  poured  from  apples.  Mix  the  dissolved 
gelatine  through  the  apple  and  turn  into  a  mold.  Chill  and  serve 
with  cream  about  half  whipped. 


STEWED  PEARS  WITH  RICE 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Put  four  large  pears,  cut  in  halves,  into  a  stew  pan  with  a  pint 
of  Claret  and  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  and  simmer  until  perfectly 
tender.  Take  out  the  pears,  let  the  syrup  boil  down  to  half, 
and  flavor  it  with  vanilla.  Have  ready  one  cup  of  rice,  nicely 
boiled  in  milk  and  sweetened.  Spread  it  on  dish,  lay  the  pears  on 
it,  and  pour  the  syrup  over.    Serve  cold. 


BAKED  BANANAS 

L.    C. 

Peel  six  bananas  and  scrape  off  the  shreds  next  the  skin.  Place 
on  a  buttered  plate  and  cook  half  an  hour,  basting  with  the 
following 

Sauce 

2  teaspoons  of  water  2  teaspoons  of  butter 

2  teaspoons  of  sugar  Juice  of  2  lemons 

Cook  this  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  double  boiler,  then  pour  over 
bananas,  put  in  oven,  and  baste  often. 


SCALLOPED    BANANAS 

MRS.    NELSON    CURTIS 

2  cups   of    soft    bread   crumbs  Grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

(baker's   bread   is   best)  A  little  cold  water 

Yi  cup  of  butter  Nutmeg 

6  bananas  Sugar  to  taste 


7o  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


Melt  the  butter  and  stir  into  the  crumbs;  mix  lemon  rind, 
nutmeg,  and  sugar.  Butter  a  pudding  dish;  put  in  alternate  layers 
Of  crumbs  and  fruit,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  until  the  dish  is  full. 
Have  a  thick  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  slowly  and  serve  with 
cream. 

See  also  recipes  for  Popovers,  Apple  Cake,  Moist  Cake,  and 
Gingerbread, 


PUDDING  AND    ICE   CREAM   SAUCES 

CREAM   SAUCE 

MISS    EMILY   KNIGHT 

1  egg  Yl  cup  of  powdered  sugar 

3  tablespoons  of  milk  J^  teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  lemon 

Beat  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar,  the 
egg  yolk,  and  flavoring,  and  lastly  the  milk. 

CHOCOLATE   SAUCE 

MRS.    CHARLES    H.    CURTIS 

One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
flour,  creamed  together.  Add  one  cup  of  boiling  water.  Dissolve 
one  square  of  Baker's  chocolate  in  one  cup  of  boiling  water  and 
add.    Boil  five  minutes. 

Good  either  hot  or  cold. 

GRANDMOTHER'S   SAUCE 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

One  egg,  white  and  yolk  beaten  together.  Add  one  cup  of 
fine  granulated  sugar  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  of  Sherry. 
Just  before  serving  add  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water. 

STRAWBERRY  SAUCE 

MRS.    NELSON   CURTIS 

Beat  two  tablespoons  of  butter  to  a  cream,  adding  gradually 
one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar;  then  add  twelve  strawberries, 
one  at  a  time,  mashing  and  beating  until  the  whole  is  light.  If 
it  has  a  curdled  appearance  add  a  little  more  sugar  and  stand  in 
a  cold  place  until  served. 

7i 


72  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

SAUCE  FOR   CHOCOLATE  ICE   CREAM 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Heat  one  cup  of  orange  marmalade  with  a  wineglass  of  any- 
white  wine.  (A  tablespoon  of  Sherry  or  a  few  drops  only  of  brandy 
will  do.)     Chill  thoroughly. 

APRICOT   SAUCE  FOR  ICE   CREAM 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Peel  apricots  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  with  three  or  four  of  the 
kernels  and  sugar  to  taste.  Press  through  sieve,  and  to  one  cupful 
add  one  tablespoon  of  Madeira.    Chill  thoroughly. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI.    To  serve  with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

MISS    HELEN   T.    COMINS 

Put  into  an  earthen  crock  and  keep  well  covered  one  quart  of 
whisky  or  brandy  and  add  fresh  fruits  through  the  summer: 
pineapple,  seeded  grapes,  peeled  peaches,  peeled  plums,  canta- 
loupe, melon,  orange,  stoned  cherries,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add 
a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  each  time  fruit  is  put  into  the  crock 
until  it  is  filled.    Do  not  use  bananas,  apples,  pears,  or  watermelon. 

See  also 

Chocolate  Sauce,  page  61. 
Foamy  Sauce,  pages  53-54. 
Hard  Sauce,  page  58. 
Mint  Marshmallow  Sauce,  page  49. 


FROZEN    DESSERTS 
ICE  CREAM 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

Mix  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour. 
Pour  slowly  onto  this  mixture  one  pint  of  scalded  milk.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  often,  then  add  two  beaten  eggs,  and 
cook  a  few  minutes.  When  cool  add  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar, 
one  quart  of  milk,  and  one-half  pint  of  cream.  Add  chocolate  or 
fruit  juices  or  any  desired  flavoring. 

MARSHMALLOW  MOUSSE 

S.    S.    B . 

Whip  one  quart  of  cream;  add  one-half  pound  of  marshmallows, 
cut  in  quarters,  three-fourths  cup  of  Maraschino  cherries,  and  one- 
half  cup  of  pecan  nuts,  chopped.  Mix  well  together,  fill  mold, 
cover,  pack  in  ice  and  salt,  and  let  stand  four  hours.  Garnish  with 
marshmallows. 

PINEAPPLE  MOUSSE 

M.  C.  L. 

1  can  of  shredded  pineapple  J4  box  of  gelatine 

1  pint  of  cream  %  cup  of  sugar 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  one  tablespoon  of  water ;  add  pineapple  and 
then  sugar.  Whip  the  cream  very  stiff  and  fold  into  pineapple 
mixture.  Place  in  closely  sealed  mold  and  let  stand  four  hours 
in  ice  and  salt. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

L.    C. 

Whip  one-half  pint  of  cream  very  stiff,  then  add  enough  maple 
syrup  to  color  and  flavor  the  cream.  Put  into  a  quart  jar  and  pack 
in  ice.    This  makes  a  quart  of  delicious  cream. 

73 


74  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

6  eggs  %  cup  of  maple  syrup,  heated  Yi  pint  of  cream 

Beat  yolks  smooth  and  light,  then  pour  over  them  the  hot 
maple  syrup,  stirring  constantly.  Put  over  fire  in  double  boiler 
and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Take  from  fire  and  beat  until  it  cools. 
Whip  cream  to  a  froth,  beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  and  stir  all 
lightly  into  the  custard.  Turn  into  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt 
for  at  least  four  hours. 

CAFE  FRAPPE 

MRS.    F.    C.   JILLSON 

Make  one  quart  of  strong  coffee,  and  when  cold  add  one  pint 
of  rich  cream  and  one  large  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  all  together  until 
it  is  foamy,  then  put  in  a  tightly  covered  mold,  and  pack  in 
chipped  ice.  Let  stand  in  coldest  part  of  refrigerator  until  ready 
to  serve. 

MACAROON  MOUSSE 

L.    C. 

3^  cup  of  granulated  sugar  }/i  cup  of  water 

Whites  of  3  eggs  6  stale  macaroons,  pounded 

Y2  pint  of  cream  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

3^  teaspoon  of  almond 

Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  syrup  and  pour  onto  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Cut  in  well-beaten  yolks,  the  cream,  and 
macaroons.    Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours. 

This  makes  a  quart  mold.  Four  eggs  and  one  pint  of  cream 
will  make  three  pints. 

MILK  SHERBET 

E.    G.   W. 

4  cups  of  milk  lj^  cups  of  sugar  Juice  of  3  lemons 

Mix  juice  and  sugar,  stirring  constantly,  and  add  milk  very 
slowly.    Freeze  and  serve. 

If  milk  is  added  too  rapidly  the  mixture  will  appear  curdled. 


FROZEN   DESSERTS  75 


FRUIT   CHARTREUSE 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Peel  four  bananas  and  rub  through  a  sieve ;  add  pulp  and  juice 
of  two  oranges,  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  one  tablespoon  of 
Sherry,  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  and  one  and 
one-fourth  tablespoons  of  granulated  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one- 
fourth  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cool  in  iced  water,  stirring  constantly, 
and  fold  in  two  cups  of  whipped  cream.  When  almost  firm  fill  a 
large  mold  with  the  mixture  and  place  a  small  mold  in  the  center. 
When  firm  enough  fill  center  mold  with  ice.  When  perfectly 
firm  remove  small  mold  and  fill  center  with  fresh,  sweetened 
pineapple. 

GRAPE   SHERBET 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

Stew  about  one  quart  of  grapes  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
third  cup  of  water.  Mash  through  a  strainer.  Make  a  syrup  of 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  four  cups  of  boiling  water,  boiling  it  for  twenty 
minutes.    Combine  mixtures,  cool,  and  freeze. 

BISQUE  WITH  APRICOTS 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

Bring  one  pint  of  milk  to  boiling  point  and  add  six  large  table- 
spoons of  sugar.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream  until  stiff  and  chop  very 
fine  one  dozen  macaroons.  Add  the  juice  of  half  a  quart  can  of 
apricots  to  the  milk  and  freeze.  When  partly  frozen  add  the 
whipped  cream,  the  powdered  macaroons,  the  well-beaten  white 
of  one  egg,  and  one  wineglass  of  brandy.  When  this  is  frozen 
almost  hard  put  in  the  apricots,  cut  in  small  pieces;  turn  a  few 
times  to  mix  apricots  with  the  cream,  and  pack. 

This  should  be  made  an  hour  or  two  before  serving. 

TORTONI 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Boil  together  one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  cold 
water  until  it  slightly  strings  from  the  spoon.  Beat  three  eggs 
thoroughly;  add  the  boiling  sugar  slowly,,  beating  all  the  while, 


76  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

about  twenty-five  minutes.  Mix  one-half  pint-  of  cream  with  one 
cup  of  milk  and  whip  stiff.  Mix  all  together;  add  one  teaspoon 
of  vanilla  and  ten  powdered  macaroons.  Put  in  mold  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  six  hours  or  longer. 

CAFE   PARFAIT 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

1  pint  of  cream  3^2  CUP  of  strong  coffee  Y2  CUP  of  sugar 

Whip  the  cream  until  very  stiff,  then  stir  in  the   sugar  and 

lastly  the  cold  coffee.     Pack  in  mold,  or  freeze,  letting  it  stand 

four  hours  well  packed  in  ice  and  salt. 

To  pack,  use  one  bowl  of  salt  to  four  bowls  of  cracked  ice. 


BREADS  AND    MUFFINS 

"Man  cannot  live  by  bread  alone." 

—  W.    B.    W. 

MILK  BREAD 

MRS.    N.    J.    MARSHALL 

1  pint  of  milk,  scalded  and  cold     1  teaspoon  of  butter,  melted  in 
}/2  yeast  cake  the  hot  milk 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

Measure  the  milk  after  scalding,  and  put  in  mixing  bowl;  add 
the  butter,  sugar,  and  salt.  When  cool  add  the  yeast,  and  then 
stir  in  the  flour,  adding  it  gradually  after  five  cups  are  in,  so  that 
it  may  not  be  too  stiff.  Use  just  enough  to  knead  it,  and  knead 
until  smooth  and  elastic.  Cover,  let  it  rise  until  light,  cut  it  down, 
divide  into  four  parts,  shape  into  loaves  or  biscuits,  and  let  it 
rise  again  in  the  pans.    Bake  forty  or  fifty  minutes. 

GRAHAM   BREAD 

MRS.    E.    U.    HARRINGTON 

2  cups  of  water  J^  yeast  cake 

Y2  cup  of  molasses  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  of  shortening  Graham  flour 

Stir  in  flour  with  a  spoon  until  very  thick  and  let  it  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  put  in  pan  and  let  rise  a  few  minutes. 
Bake  one  hour. 

GRAHAM   BREAD 

G.    G.    N. 

1/4  cups  of  graham  flour  1  cup  of  white  flour 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  %  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  cup  of  sour  milk  }/%  CUP  of  molasses 

.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  to  molasses,  and  combine 
mixtures. 

77 


78  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

SWEET  LOAF 

H.    J.    D.  MISS    S.    L.    EDWARDS 

1  cup  of  dough  1  cup  of  sugar 

Y2  CUP  of  butter  %  cup  of  milk 

1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  Y2  nutmeg 

Y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  Less  than  1  cup  of  flour 
milk 

Beat  together  dough,  butter  (slightly  softened) ,  sugar,  and  eggs, 
unbeaten.  Then  add  milk,  raisins,  nutmeg,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  brandy.  Raise  like  bread  and  bake  accordingly,  the  same  heat 
and  time. 

SHREDDED   WHEAT  BREAD 

MISS    B.    S.    FORBES 

Break  into  a  bowl  one  shredded  wheat  biscuit  and  pour  over  it 
one  cup  of  scalded  milk.    Add: 

2  tablespoons  of  molasses  Yi  tablespoon  of  lard 

Y%  teaspoon  of  salt 

When  mixture  is  lukewarm  add  one-half  yeast  cake,  dissolved 
in  two  tablespoons  of  warm  water.  Add  three  to  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  bread  flour  and  knead  thoroughly.  Finish  like  white 
loaf  bread. 

This  makes  one  loaf. 

CORN  BREAD 

MISS    MARGARET   MORSE 

1~Y  cups  of  bolted  corn  meal  Yi  CUP  of  flour 

1  large  egg  or  2  small  eggs  2  cups  of  milk 

Y  cup  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
Pinch  of  salt                                     3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 

Bake  in  shallow  pan. 

CORN   BREAD 

S.    G.    C. 

2  cups  of  Indian  meal  2  cups  of  flour 

Y  CUP  of  sugar  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  1  pint  of  milk 

3  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 


BREADS  AND   MUFFINS  79 


OATMEAL  BREAD 

MRS.  F.  G.,  WABAN.      MRS.  C.  FRANK  ALLEN 

1  cup  of  rolled  oats  2  cups  of  boiling  water 

J^  cup  of  molasses  3^  yeast  cake 

43^  cups  of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  butter 

1  teaspoon  of  salt 

Pour  boiling  water  on  oatmeal  and  let  stand  one  hour;  add 
molasses,  and  yeast,  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  of  water.  Add 
butter,  flour,  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  let. stand  over  night.  In 
the  morning  put  in  two  pans  and  let  rise  one  and  a  half  hours; 
then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


BROWN  BREAD 

MRS.   WINTHROP    C.    DURFEE 

One  cup  of  molasses  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  beaten  together. 
Add: 

1  cup  of  boiling  water  1  cup  of  cold  water 

1  cup  of  yellow  meal  1  cup  of  rye  meal 

1  cup  of  white  flour  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

Sift  together,  mix,  and  beat  thoroughly;  then  add  one  cup  of 
raisins  if  desired.  Put  in  mold,  immerse  in  boiling  water,  and  boil 
four  hours. 

TITUSVILLE  BROWN  BREAD 

M.    C.    L. 

4  cups  of  graham  flour  2  cups  of  sweet  milk 

Y2  cup  of  molasses  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  3^2  teaspoon  of  soda 

3^  cup  of  raisins 

Bake  thirty  minutes.  The  last  eight  or  ten  minutes  lay  the 
tins  on  their  sides. 

This  makes  four  loaves  if  baked  in  one-pound  baking  powder 
tins.    It  is  very  good  for  sandwiches. 


80  THE   FAULKNER   COOK  BOOK 

BROWN   BREAD 

MRS.    JOSEPH    E.    BARRY 

Pour  three-fourths  pint  of  hot  water  on  one  pint  of  bread 
crumbs.  Add  one  cup  of  corn  meal,  one-half  cup  of  molasses, 
two-thirds  cup  of  flour,  one  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  raisins  to  taste.     Steam  four  hours. 

NUT  BREAD 

MRS.    F.    C.    JILLSON.       MRS.    C.    L.    D.    YOUNKIN 

Y2  cup  of  sugar  2  eggs 

2  cups  of  milk  4  cups  of  flour 

4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder        1  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  1  cup  of  raisins  or  dates  if  desired 

Let  rise  twenty  minutes  in  two  pans,  then  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

NUT  BREAD 

MRS.    T.    G.    REES 

3  cups  of  Franklin  Mills  whole     3  rounded  teaspoons  of  baking 
wheat  flour  powder 

Y2  CUP  of  white  sugar  Yi  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  V/2  cups  of  cold  milk 

Let  stand  in  greased  pan  twenty  minutes,  then  bake  in  rather 
slow  oven  for  nearly  an  hour. 

RAISED   MUFFINS 

MRS.    CHANNING   WILLIAMS 

1  pint  of  scalded  milk  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

Y  yeast  cake  Y2  teaspoon  of  sugar 

Salt  Flour  to  make  a  very  light  batter 

Bake  in  rings  in  oven. . 

NEW  ENGLAND   BLUEBERRY  MUFFINS 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Beat  one  egg  very  light;  add  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  then 
one  pint  of  flour,  sifted  with  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking 


BREADS  AND   MUFFINS  81 

powder,  and  two  scant  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
two  teaspoons  of  melted  butter,  and  last  the  berries,  rubbed  first 
through  the  flour.    Bake  thirty  minutes  in  gem  pans. 

DATE   MUFFINS 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Remove  stones  and  chop  one-half  pound  of  dates;  beat  them 
gradually  into  one-fourth  cup  of  butter,  creamed,  and  mix  with 
a  well-beaten  egg.  Add  one  cup  of  milk  alternately  with  one 
pint  of  flour,  sifted  with  three  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  nearly  thirty  minutes  in  well-buttered 
muffin  pans  or  shallow  tin. 

ENTIRE  WHEAT  MUFFINS 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

8  tablespoons  of  entire  wheat  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

flour  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  Milk  enough  to  make  stiff  batter 
2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  to  drop  from  spoon 

WESTERN   MUFFINS 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Sift  together  three  small  cups  of  white  flour  and  one  cup  of  corn 
meal,  one  level  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  one 
tablespoon  of  sugar.  Work  into  this  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  soft 
butter;  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  either  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 
to  make  a  batter  that  is  firm,  but  not  too  stiff.  Beat  hard  and  cook 
in  muffin  rings  on  top  of  range.  Fill  rings  half  full  and  turn  when 
batter  has  risen  to  the  top.  They  may  be  baked  in  gem  pans  in 
the  oven. 

LUNCH  ROLLS 

MRS.    W.    B.    RUSSELL 

1  yeast  cake  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

134  cups  of  milk,  scalded  and     1  egg 

cooled  2  tablespoons  of  lard  or  butter 

4  cups  of  sifted  flour  1  teaspoon  of  salt 


82  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  milk.  Add  shortening 
and  two  cups  of  flour  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  egg,  well  beaten, 
and  gradually  the  rest  of  the  flour  and  the  salt.  Let  rise  about 
two  hours.  When  light,  form  into  small  biscuits,  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  place  one  inch  apart  in  shallow  pans.  Let  rise  until 
double  in  bulk,  brush  with  egg  and  milk,  and  bake  ten  minutes  in 
hot  oven. 

COFFEE   CAKE 

MRS.    F.    C.   JILLSON 

8  cups  of  flour  3  eggs 

}/s  cup  of  butter  Juice  and  rind  of  }/2  lemon 

1  yeast  cake  Milk  enough  to  make   a  stiff 

1  cup  of  sugar  batter 

Melt  the  butter,  add  sugar,  and  add  to  milk  when  warm;  also 
the  beaten  eggs.  Set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  place 
in  pans,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  bits  of  butter,  and 
let  rise  again.    Bake  fifteen  minutes.    This  makes  three  loaves. 


COFFEE   MUFFINS 

MISS    SUSAN   L.    MERRIAM 

2  cups  of  flour  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  butter 
4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  1J^  cups  of  cold  coffee 
Salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  then  add  eggs  and  coffee,  and  last 
the  butter,  melted. 

APPLE  GEMS 

MRS.    S.    B.    CAPEN 

3  large  sour  apples,  chopped  fine     2  eggs 

1  cup  of  milk  Salt 

2  cups  of  flour  }/2  cup  of  sugar 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking 


Bake  in  hot  gem  pans. 


powder 


BREADS   AND   MUFFINS  83 

BEATEN  BISCUITS.     Southern  Recipe 

L.    C. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour  1  large  tablespoon  of  shortening 

Pinch  of  soda  (butter  and  lard,  or  all  butter) 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  Moisten   with  milk   to   a   stiff 

dough 

Beat  until  smooth,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  slow 
oven  about  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 


BANNOCKS 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

1  pint  of  milk  %  cup  of  white  corn  meal 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
Salt 

Scald  the  milk  with  the  butter,  stir  in  the  corn  meal,  and  boil 
all  well.  Cool,  then  stir  in  the  eggs,  and  bake  about  thirty  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven. 

BATTER  BREAD 

MRS.    WILLIAM    PRATT 

Boil  two  cups  of  hominy,  or  one  cup  of  rice,  until  very  soft. 
Add  an  equal  quantity  of  white  corn  meal,  also  salt  and  a  large 
spoon  of  butter.  Add  three  eggs  and  milk,  making  into  a  thin 
batter.  Beat  all  together  thoroughly  and  bake  in  round  or 
square  tins. 

RICE   MUFFINS 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  with  two  tablespoons  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  one  egg  very 
light ;  add  one  cup  of  milk  and  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted  in 
one  tablespoon  of  hot  water.  Stir  these  into  flour  mixture,  beating 
well,  then  add  one  cup  of  hot  cooked  rice,  and  bake  in  gem  pans. 


84  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

LUNCH   MUFFINS 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  Yi  CUP  of  sugar 

A  little  salt  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

1  cup  of  milk  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

2  scant  cups  of  flour 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  together,  then  add  eggs,  milk,  etc.    Can 
be  baked  in  tins  or  fried  in  rings. 

Graham 

Same  as  above,  using  three  cups  of  graham  flour. 

Rye 

As  above,  using  four  cups  of  rye. 

SARATOGA  CORN   CAKES 

MRS.    N.    J.    MARSHALL 

1  cup  of  corn  flour  1  cup  of  wheat  flour 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

Pinch  of  salt  Milk 

Mix  with  milk  to  the  thickness  of  cake  dough. 
This  makes  about  twelve  cakes. 

CORN   CAKES 

MRS.    N.    J.    MARSHALL 

1  egg  3  tablespoons  of  sugar 

%  cup  of  Indian  meal  2  cups  of  flour 

1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar         1  teaspoon  of  soda 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  to  the  thickness  of  cake  dough. 

This  makes  about  fifteen  cakes. 


BREADS   AND   MUFFINS  85 

RYE   MUFFINS 

F.    E.    R. 

1  cup  of  milk  3^5  tablespoon  of  sugar 

Pinch  of  salt  1  egg 

1  cup  of  rye  meal  %  cup  of  flour 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter 
Bake  in  rounds  or  muffin  pans. 

FRIED   RYE   MUFFINS 

MISSES    P. 

13^2  CUPS  of  rye  meal  V/2  CUPS  of  flour 

1  cup  of  milk  2  eggs 

3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder        2  heaping  tablespoons  of  sugar 

}/2  teaspoon  of  salt 
Mix  dry  ingredients  together.     Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the 
milk,  and  stir  all  together  thoroughly.    Drop  from  spoon  into  deep 
fat  and  cook  ten  minutes. 

GRAHAM   PUFFS 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

One  pint  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  graham  flour  to  make  a  batter 
like  griddle  cakes.  Half  fill  very  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  in  very 
hot  oven. 

WATER  GEMS 

MRS.    HENRY    L.    RAND 

One  cup  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of 
ice  water  stirred  into  the  flour  and  salt  gradually.  Heat  the 
gem  pans,  put  in  each  one  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  and  place 
on  stove  until  sizzling.  Then  drop  in  each  two  teaspoons  of  the 
batter  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  very  hot  oven.  They  should 
puff  up  and  brown. 

BRAN  CRACKERS 

MRS.    C.    F.    DOLE 

1  cup  of  white  flour  2  cups  of  bran  flour 

Yi  teaspoon  of  salt  1  egg 

Enough  water  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

Roll  as  thin  as  possible  and  cut.    Bake  slowly  on  tins. 


86  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

BRAN   MUFFINS 

MISS    MARGARET   MORSE 

1J/2  cups  of  Gilman's  bran  Y  cup  of  flour 

Y  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  milk 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  Pinch  of  salt 


Bake  in  hot  oven. 


BRAN   MUFFINS 

MISS    C.    B.    CLARK 


1  egg  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
Y2  cup  of  milk  sifted  in  Y2  cup  of  Educator 

2  teaspoons  of  sugar  bran 

YL  cup  of  flour  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter 
Bake  fifteen  minutes. 

BRAN  BISCUIT 

H.  L.  P. 

2  cups  of  bran  1  cup  of  white  flour 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  1Y  cups  of  sour  milk 

Y  cup  of  butter  3  tablespoons  of  molasses 
Bake  in  gem  pans  in  moderate  oven. 

OATMEAL  GEMS 

L.    C. 

1  egg,  beaten  light  Y  cup  of  cold  cooked  oatmeal 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar  Y  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter        \Y  cups  of  pastry  flour 

\Y  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
Mix  thoroughly. 

SQUASH  MUFFINS 

MRS.    B.    H.    BAILEY 

1  pint  of  sifted  squash  1  cup  of  milk 

Y  yeast  cake  Y  cup  of  sugar 

2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter      6  cups  of  flour 

Let  rise  over  night,  and  in  the  morning  stir  in  thoroughly  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of  warm  water. 


BREADS   AND   MUFFINS  87 


ENGLISH   MUFFINS 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Take  one  cup  of  bread  dough  when  molding  it  for  the  last 
time,  add  one  egg,  beaten  separately,  enough  milk  for  a  soft 
batter,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Let  them  rise,  and  cook  in 
muffin  rings  on  griddle  on  top  of  stove.  Cook  five  minutes,  turn 
and  cook  five  minutes  on  other  side. 


OATMEAL  CAKES 

MRS.   W.    D.    HOWLAND 

2  scant  cups  of  cold  oatmeal  1  cup  of  flour 

1  cup  of  milk  4  eggs 

4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  and  oatmeal  together  until  very  light. 

SCONES 

C.    M.    R. 

1  pound  of  flour  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

V/2  tablespoons  of  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cream  of  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda 
tartar 

Rub  together  until  very  fine  and  smooth.  Add  enough  milk  to 
be  able  to  roll  it.  Flour  board  and  pin,  and  roll  lightly,  always 
in  the  same  direction.  Bake  on  a  greased  griddle  and  turn  con- 
stantly until  brown  on  all  sides.    Split,  butter,  and  serve. 


CREAM    WAFFLES 

C.    M.    R. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  one  teaspoon  of 
soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  pint  of  sour  cream,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  Add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  very 
stiff,  and  fold  in  very  carefully.  Do  not  beat.  Cook  on  a  waffle 
iron  until  a  light  brown. 


88  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

RICE  WAFFLES 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  butter         1  egg 
3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder        1  pint  of  milk 
2Y2  cups  of  flour  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice 

3^2  teaspoon  of  salt 
Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  work  in  rice  with  fingers;  add 
milk  and  egg  yolk,  well  beaten,  and  butter.    Fold  in  stiffly  beaten 
white  and  cook  on  waffle  iron. 

POPOVERS 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  cup  of  milk  1  cup  of  flour 

1  egg  Pinch  of  salt 

Bake  in  very  hot  buttered  iron  gem  pans,  or  in  buttered  earthen 
cups,  in  very  hot  quick  oven. 

Serve  as  muffins,  or  with  a  sweet  or  chocolate  sauce  as  a  dessert. 

SQUASH    GRIDDLE  CAKES 

MRS.    EDWARD   B.    LANE 

1  cup  of  boiling  milk  1  cup  of  sifted  squash 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  3^  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

1  cup  of  flour  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

Pour  the  hot  milk  into  the  squash;  add  the  butter,  sugar,  and 
salt.  When  cool  add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  and  the  baking  powder, 
mixed  with  the  flour.  If  too  thick  add  more  milk ;  if  too  thin  add 
more  flour. 

FLOUR  AND   INDIAN    GRIDDLE  CAKES 

MRS.    WILLIAM    D.    HOWLAND 

2  cups  of  pastry  flour  1  cup  of  Indian  meal 
2    even  teaspoons  of   baking       2  eggs 

powder  Salt 

Sugar 

Put  the  baking  powder  dry  into  the  flour  and  sift.  Stir  all  well 
together  and  thin  with  cold  milk.    Fry  with  salt  pork. 


BREADS   AND   MUFFINS  89 

BUCKWHEAT   CAKES 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

V/2  cups  of  buckwheat  flour  V/2  cups  of  pastry  flour 

Molasses,  salt,  warm  water  }/$  yeast  cake 

Let  rise  over  night  or  from  breakfast  until  lunch.  Fry  in  salt 
pork. 

INDIAN   GRIDDLE   CAKES 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

One  cup  of  Indian  meal,  scalded  with  boiling  water  and  thinned 
with  cold  milk;  two  or  three  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt.  Fry  with  salt 
pork. 

RYE   GRIDDLE   CAKES 

MRS.    W.    D.    HOWLAND 

2  cups  of  rye  meal  Y2  teaspoon  of  saleratus,  mixed 

2  eggs  with  enough  sweet  milk  to 

1  cup  of  flour  make  a  batter  thick  enough 
Y2  CUP  of  molasses  to  fry  well 

SHROVE  TUESDAY  PANCAKES 

E.    G.    W. 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  1  salt  spoon  of  salt 
1  pint  of  milk                                    1  pint  of  flour 

Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  until  smooth. 

Sauce 

One-half  cup  of  water  and  one  cup  of  sugar  heated  together ;  add 
a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  one  butter  ball,  one-fourth  nutmeg, 
grated,  and  one-half  cup  of  Sherry. 


CAKES,  COOKIES,  AND   GINGERBREADS 

"  Wouldst  thou  both  eat  thy  cake  and  have  it?  " 

—  George  Herbert. 

The  usual  method  for  mixing  cake  is  to  work  the  butter  to  a 
cream,  adding  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the 
flavoring,  and  then  the  flour  alternately  with  the  milk  until  both 
are  used.  Last  of  all  fold  in  lightly  the  whites,  beaten  stiff  and 
dry.  Do  not  beat  these  in  and  do  not  beat  the  cake  hard  after 
they  are  added.  Put  it  at  once  into  the  pan  and  set  in  the  oven. 
Close  the  door  gently  and  do  not  allow  any  jar  in  the  kitchen  while 
the  cake  is  baking. 

The  bottom  and  sides  of  the  pan  should  be  well  greased.  For 
a  fruit  cake  or  any  other  which  requires  long  baking,  the  pan  should 
be  lined  with  well-greased  paper. 

Cake  must  not  be  put  into  an  oven  which  is  very  hot  at  first 
and  cools  later.  This  cooks  the  outside  of  the  batter  and  pre- 
vents it  rising  as  it  should;  then  as  the  heat  declines,  the  baked 
crust  pressing  on  the  unbaked  interior  makes  it  fall. 

Do  not  open  the  oven  until  you  think  the  cake  has  "  set,"  or 
is  partly  baked  all  through,  and  not  then  unless  there  is  reason 
to  think  that  one  side  of  the  oven  is  hotter  than  the  other.  Never 
move  the  cake  until  the  crust  has  formed.  When  a  loaf  must 
bake  for  a  long  time  it  is  well  to  cover  for  the  first  half  hour  with 
brown  paper.  When  done  the  cake  will  shrink  slightly  from  the 
sides  of  the  pan.  A  clean  straw  run  into  the  thickest  part  of  the 
cake  should  come  out  dry  and  free  from  dough. 

EGGLESS,  BUTTERLESS,  MILKLESS   CAKE! 

M.    C.    L. 

2  cups  of  sugar  2  cups  of  water 

2  tablespoons  of  lard  or  Crisco      3  teaspoons  of  cinnamon 
1J/2  teaspoons  of  salt  *  ,    1  pound  of  raisins 

90 


CAKES,    COOKIES,    AND    GINGERBREADS  Qi 

Cook  these  for  five  minutes,  let  cool,  and  add  three  cups  of 
flour,  sifted  with  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda.  Bake  about  one 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Two  loaves. 

EGGLESS   CHOCOLATE   CAKE 

MRS.    F.    E.    BRIDGMAN 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  large  tablespoon  of  shortening 

1  cup  of  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

2  tablespoons  of  cocoa  2  cups  of  flour 

Yi  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  Y2  teaspoon  of  clove 

Y  teaspoon  of  salt 


FRUIT   CAKE.    Without  Eggs  or  Butter 

MRS.    CLIFFORD   DEVENS 

1  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved    1  cup  of  thick  sour  cream 
in  1  tablespoon  of  warm  water     1  cup  of  brown  sugar 

Y  CUP  of  molasses 
Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved  and  add: 
3  cups  of  sugar  1  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon 

Y  nutmeg,  grated  Saltspoon  of  ginger 

Beat  until  smooth  and  stir  in  one  pound  of  raisins  that  have 
been  floured  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour.  Turn  into  a  square 
bread  pan  and  bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

This  cake  should  be  kept  in  a  tin  box  for  three  or  four  days 
before  cutting. 


FRUIT   CAKE.  Without  Eggs 

MRS.    H.    DE    FOREST    LOCKWOOD 

Yi  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  sugar 

V/2  cups  of  flour  1  cup  of  apple  sauce  with  1  tea- 

Y2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  spoon  of  soda 

Y  teaspoon  of  clove  Y  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

Y  CUP  of  raisins 


92  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

EGGLESS   CAKE 

MRS.    C.    FRANK   ALLEN 

Y2  cup  of  butter,  melted  V/2  cups  of  sugar 

3  cups  of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

1  whole  nutmeg,  grated  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  V/2  cups  of  sour  milk 

Mix  thoroughly,  adding  raisins  last.  Bake  slowly  one  hour  or 
more. 

ONE  EGG   CAKE 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

34  cup  of  butter,  creamed  1  egg  1  cup  of  sugar 

Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff;  add  yolk  and  beat  again;  then  add 
to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  three-fourths  cup  of  milk  alter- 
nately with  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  and  last  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

LIGHTNING  CAKE 

MRS.  W.  O.  WITHERELL 

1  heaping  cup  of  flour  1  level  cup  of  sugar 

1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Sift  all  together  three  times.  Into  one-fourth  cup  of  melted 
butter  drop  two  eggs  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Stir  this  into  dry 
mixture  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  to  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

VARIETY  CAKE 

MRS.    S.    B.    CAPEN 

V/2  cups  of  sugar  %  cup  of  butter 

%  cup  of  milk  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar         2  full  cups  of  flour 
Y2  teaspoon  of  saleratus 

Bake  two-thirds  of  this  in  two  shallow  cake  pans.  Spice  the 
rest  with  one  teaspoon  of  mixed  spices ;  add  one-half  cup  of  raisins, 
one-half  cup  of  currants,  and  a  little  more  flour,  and  bake  in  pan 
the  size  of  the  others.    When  cold  put  the  three  together  with  jelly. 


CAKES,   COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  93 

BIRTHDAY  CAKE 

MRS.    EDWARD    B.    LANE 

Y2  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  sugar 

4  egg  yolks  Y  cup  of  milk 

Y  cup  of  cornstarch  1  cup  of  flour 

Y2  teaspoon  of  flavoring  YL  teaspoon  of  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  egg  yolks,  beaten  well,  flavor- 
ing, and  milk;  sift  in  dry  ingredients. 

WARREN'S   CAKE 

MRS.    A.    N.    BROUGHTON 

2  eggs  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  flour  Y  CUP  of  n°t  water 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Beat  the  eggs  well  together;  add  the  sugar,  then  the  flour,  sifted 
with  baking  powder,  and  last  the  water.    Bake  at  once. 

WELLESLEY  FUDGE   CAKE 

MRS.    EDWARD    B.    LANE 

1  cup  of  sugar  %  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  milk  2Y  cups  of  flour 

Y  CUP  °f  chocolate,  melted  over  Y2  cup  of  English  walnuts, 
hot  water  broken  coarsely 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking     3  eggs 

powder 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  milk,  and  stir  in  lightly  the  flour, 
sifted  with  baking  powder.  Stir  in  the  chocolate,  add  nuts,  and 
eggs,  beaten  separately. 

Fudge  Frosting 

\Yi  tablespoons  of  butter  Y  cup  of  cocoa 

\Y  cups  of  confectioner's  sugar     Y  CUP  of  milk 
Yi  teaspoon  of  vanilla  Few  grains  of  salt 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  cocoa,  sugar,  salt,  and  milk;  bring 
to  boiling  point  and  boil  about  eight  minutes.  Remove  from 
fire  and  beat  quickly  until  creamy.  Add  vanilla  and  pour  over 
the  cake  about  one-fourth  inch  thick. 


94  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE 

MRS.    N.   J.    MARSHALL 

Dissolve  two  squares  of  chocolate  in  five  tablespoons  of  boiling 
water.  Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter,  adding  gradually  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat 
thoroughly,  and  add  the  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  cream  or 
.milk,  one  and  three-fourth  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  rounding 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Stir  in 
carefully  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  bake,  either  in  a  loaf  or 
thin  layer  cake  pans. 

Icing 

Melt  two  squares  of  chocolate  (put  no  water  to  it) ;  add  one  cup 
of  sugar  and  white  of  one  egg. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKES 

MRS.    M.    W.    RICHARDSON 

\}/2  cups  of  sugar  J^  cup  of  butter 

2  eggs  2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate, 
1  cup  of  thick  sour  milk  melted  over  hot  water 

3^2  teaspoon  of  soda  2  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  2  tea- 

1  cup  of  broken  walnut  meats  spoons  of  baking  powder  and 

a  pinch  of  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  beat  in 
melted  chocolate.  Dissolve  soda  in  one-fourth  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  add  to  sour  milk,  stirring  briskly;  add  to  mixture  with  flour 
and  baking  powder.  When  well  beaten  stir  in  nuts  which  have 
been  floured.  Put  a  walnut  meat  on  top  of  each  cake  before 
baking. 

One-half  this  rule  makes  sixteen  cakes.  Can  be  made  as  loaf 
cake  if  desired. 

CHOCOLATE   CAKE 

MRS.    EATON 

3  squares  of  chocolate       Y^  cup  of  sugar        Y%  CUP  of  sweet  milk 
Boil  until  thick  and  set  to  cool.    Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter 

and  one  cup  of  sugar  and  break  two  eggs  into  this.  Add  one-half 
cup  of  sour  milk,  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two  cups  of 
sifted  pastry  flour.    Beat  well  and  add  to  chocolate  mixture. 


CAKES,    COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  95 


SPONGE   CAKE  PUFFS 

MISS    HELEN   T.    COMINS 

Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  very  light  and  add  the  beaten  yolks. 
Sift  in  carefully  one-half  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Mix  in  thoroughly  one-half  cup  of  sifted  flour 
and  bake  in  custard  cups. 


SPONGE   CAKE.     "Good" 

S.    G.    C. 

1  cup  of  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cup  of  flour  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately  and  add  whites  just  before 
putting  in  the  oven.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


SPONGE   CAKE 

MRS.    C.    E.    KENDRICK 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  1  cup  of  sugar 

3  tablespoons  of  cold  water  V/2  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  in 

13^2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder        a  cup.    Fill  cup  with  flour 
J4  teaspoon  of  salt  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiff 


SPONGE   CAKE 

C.    M.    R. 

5  eggs  1  cup  of  sugar 

Scant  3^2  cup  of  potato  flour  3^2  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Juice  of  Y2  lemon 
Beat  yolks  separately  five  minutes;  add  sugar  and  beat  five 
minutes  more.     Add  lemon  juice;  mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  beat  in  with  spoon.    Beat  whites  very  stiff  with  pinch 
of  salt  and  stir  in  last.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  half  an  hour. 


g6  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

SPONGE  CAKE 

A.    N.   W. 

1  cup  of  sugar  5  eggs 
Juice  and  grated  rind  of  J/£  lemon     1  cup  of  flour 

Beat  sugar,  lemon,  and  yolks  of  eggs  together  and  add  stiffly 
beaten  whites.  Add  the  flour  and  fold  all  together  lightly  with  a 
wooden  spoon.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  one  hour. 

SPONGE   CAKE.    "Excellent" 

"north  billerica" 

Six  eggs,  whites  beaten  separately;  juice  of  one  lemon  put  into 
the  egg  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar;  two  cups  of  flour. 

ORANGE  CAKE 

MISS    ROSAMOND   MAY 

\}/2  cups  of  sugar  and  %  cup  of    Juice  and  rind  of  1  orange 

butter,  creamed  together  lj^  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  beaten  sifted  in  the  flour 

%  cup  of  milk  2  scant  cups  of  flour 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff 

Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  two  pans. 

Frosting 

White  of  one  egg,  saved  from  cake,  beaten  stiff;  add  juice  and 
rind  of  orange  (if  orange  is  large  take  out  one  tablespoon  of  juice 
and  some  rind  from  orange  used  for  cake).  Add  enough  confec- 
tioner's sugar  to  make  stiff.  Put  two  cakes  together  with  frosting 
between  and  on  top. 

SPICE  CAKE 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

2  cups  of  sugar  2  cups  of  sour  milk 
2  cups  of  raisins,  chopped               4  cups  of  flour 

2  teaspoons  of  soda  1  egg 

1  cup  of  butter  1  teaspoon  of  all  kinds  of  spices, 

mixed 


CAKES,   COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS 


97 


Mix  spices  with  sugar  and  then  cream  with  butter;  add  soda  to 
milk  and  then  to  first  mixture,  with  beaten  egg.  Add  flour  and 
last  the  fruit. 


SPICED   FRUIT  CAKE 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 


lj^  cups  of  brown  sugar 
1  cup  of  sour  milk 
3  eggs 

Y2  teaspoon  of  clove 
1   cup   each  of  currants   and 
raisins 


1  cup  of  butter 
2}/2  cups  of  flour 
1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,   cinna- 
mon, and  allspice 
1  teaspoon  of  soda 
A  little  citron 


FRENCH  SPICE  CAKE 


MRS.    CAMPBELL 

Y2  cup  of  butter 
1  cup  of  chopped  raisins 
34  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
}/2  teaspoon  of  clove 


1  cup  of  sugar 

3  eggs,  beaten  stiff 

1  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract 

J4  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

}/&  teaspoon  of  allspice 

Mix  well  and  add : 
3^j  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 

1%  cup  of  pastry  flour  3^  teaspoon  of  soda 

Bake  about  forty-five  minutes. 


13^  cups  of  butter 
V/2  CUPS  of  molasses 

4  eggs 

5  cups  of  flour 

1  pound  of  raisins 
134  pounds  of  citron 
A  little  lemon  juice 


HARRISON  CAKE 

MISS   EMILY   KNIGHT 


V/2  cups  of  sugar 
1  cup  of  milk 
1  teaspoon  of  soda 
1  pound  of  currants 
All  kinds  of  spices 
A  little  wine 


98  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

ANGEL  CAKE 

MISS   EMILY   KNIGHT 

Whites  of  11  eggs  13^  cups  of  granulated  sugar 

1  cup  of  pastry  flour,  measured     1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar, 

after  being  sifted  4  times  sifted  in  flour 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  sugar  into  the  egg,  and 
add  the  seasoning  and  flour,  stirring  quickly  and  lightly.  Beat 
until  ready  to  put  the  mixture  in  the  oven.  Do  not  grease  the 
pan.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  After  baking  turn 
the  pan  upside  down  on  the  table,  so  that  a  current  of  air  will 
pass  under  and  over  it. 

ANGEL   CAKE 

MRS.    H.    M.    PARSHLEY 

Heat  one  cup  of  milk  to  boiling  point.    Sift  together  four  times : 
1  cup  of  flour  1  cup  of  sugar 

3  good  teaspoons  of  baking  Pinch  of  salt 

powder 
Pour  boiling  milk  into  this  mixture  and  stir  until  smooth;  then 
without  stirring  fold  in  carefully  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs.    Bake  in  an  ungreased  tin  in  a  moderate  oven. 

REAL   SCOTCH   SHORT   CAKE 

;  J    j  "  MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar  and  two  cups  of  butter,  creamed  to- 
gether; then  work  in  four  cups  of  flour.  It  should  be  very  stiff. 
Roll  out,  on  brown  paper,  about  an  inch  thick.  Mark  into  squares, 
put  paper  and  all  into  shallow  pan,  and  bake  slowly  until  done. 

RAISIN   CAKE 

L.    C. 

1  cup  of  butter  4  eggs 

3  cups  of  sugar  4  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  milk 

1  pound  of  raisins  1  tablespoon  of  brandy  or  wine  (if 

Clove  and  cinnamon  put  in  add  a  little  more  flour) 

A  little  citron  if  desired 


CAKES,    COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  99 

LADY  GLADYS   CAKE 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

2  cups  of  brown  sugar  1  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  cold  water  3  cups  of  flour 

3  eggs  %  teaspoon  each  of  clove,  cin- 

2  heaping  cups  of  raisins,  seeded         namon,  and  nutmeg 

and  chopped  very  fine  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 


APPLE   CAKE 

MRS.    BENJAMIN   H.    BAILEY 

1  cup  of  sugar  Y2  cup  of  butter 

Y2  cup  of  milk  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  and  2  tea-  3  apples,  sliced  thin  and  stirred 

spoons  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  in  last 

with  23^2  cups  of  flour 

Good  eaten  warm. 

NUT   CAKE 

MRS.    C.    E.    KENDRICK 

Y  cup  of  butter  %  cup  of  milk,  added  alternately 

V/2  cups  of  sugar,  added  grad-  with  2  cups   of  flour,    sifted 

ually  with  2  level  teaspoons  of  bak- 

1  cup  of  nut  meats,  chopped  ing  powder 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  dry 

Bake  in  shallow  pan  thirty  or  forty  minutes. 

DEVIL   CAKE 

MRS.    F.    C.    JILLSON 

2  squares  of  chocolate  1  egg  Y  cup  of  milk 
Boil  until  like  custard,  then  add: 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

Yi  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

XYi  cups  of  bread  flour  milk 

Vanilla 

Bake  in  slow  oven  and  cover  with  boiled  frosting. 


ioo  THE  FAULKNER   COOK  BOOK 

MEDWAY   GINGER  CAKE 

MRS.    EVERIT 

\}/2  cups  of  black  molasses  1  cup  of  sugar 

}/2  cup  of  butter  3^  CUP  of  lard 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  3  cups  of  flour 

1  dessertspoon  of  ginger  %  dessertspoon  of  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  1  cup  of  water 

Spread  thin  and  bake  in  quick  oven.    When  done  sprinkle  with 
sugar. 

LACE   CAKES, 

MRS.    GEORGE   W.    ROLLINS 

1  scant  cup  of  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  of   baking 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  powder 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter        Pinch  of  salt 
$*    &AJ&2  2  Y2  cups  of  Quaker  oats 

\     0 
IRISH  POUND  CAKE 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

2  cups  of  sugar  1J/2  CUPS  of  butter 

1  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  coffee  or  milk 
4  eggs                                                 4J^  cups  of  flour 

2  teaspoons  each  of  clove,  all-     1  teaspoon  of  soda 
spice,  nutmeg,  and  cinnamon     1  pound  of  currants 

1  pound  of  raisins  1  pound  of  citron 

Bake  two  hours. 

BLUEBERRY  CAKE 

MRS.    EVERIT 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  scant  cup  of  milk 

2  cups  of  sugar  Whites  of  3  eggs 

3  cups  of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  salt 
3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  1  quart  of  berries 

Sift  salt  and  baking  powder  through  stiff  batter,  made  of  pre- 
ceding ingredients,  and  add  berries  last. 


CAKES,    COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  101 

BLUEBERRY   CAKE 

MRS.    CAMPBELL 

1  egg  1  cup  of  sugar 

2  cups  of  pastry  flour  Y  cup  of  melted  butter 

Yi  cup  of  milk  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

V/<L  cups  of  berries  3^2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

SOUR  MILK  CAKE 

MRS.    PAUL   A.    PETERS 

Beat  to  a  cream  four  tablespoons  of  butter  and  one  cup  of 
sugar.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  clove,  a  little 
nutmeg,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  raisins,  and  one-fourth 
cup  of  citron.    Bake  thirty  minutes. 

MOIST   CAKE 

MRS.    ANDREW   J.    PETERS 

\}/2  cups  of  sugar  3^2  CUP  of  butter 

3  eggs  %  cup  of  water 
V/2  teaspoons  of  vanilla                  2  cups  of  flour 

Good  for  dessert,  hot,  with  cream. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE 

MRS.    THOMAS    G.    REES 

Filling 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon  Y2  CUP  of  sugar 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  of  butter 

Scant  half  cup  of  cold  water  1  tablespoon  of  flour 
Mix  and  boil  until  it  thickens. 

Cake 

1  scant  cup  of  sugar  Good  Y  CUP  of  butter 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Y  cup  of  milk,  put  in  gradually 

1%  cups  of  flour,  put  in  gradually  13^  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
J/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla  Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a 

stiff  froth  and  added  last 
Bake  in  shallow  pans  and  put  together  with  the  above  filling. 


ro^ 


THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


A  GOOD   DARK  CAKE 

MRS.    T.    W.    TUCKER 


1  cup  of  sugar 
3^2  cup  of  butter 
23^  cups  of  flour 

1  cup  of  raisins 
Pinch  of  salt 

2  eggs 


1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
1  cup  of  molasses 

Y2  CUP  of  thick  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  each  of  clove,  cinna- 
mon, and  mace 

1  cup  of  currants 


JELLY  ROLLS 

BARONESS  VON   SCHOLLEY 

1  ounce  of  sugar  2  eggs  1  ounce  of  flour 

Mix  sugar  and  egg  yolks,  then  flour,  and  add  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  dry.  Spread  on  tin,  bake  ten  minutes  in  moderate  oven, 
spread  with  jelly,  roll,  turn  edges,  and  roll  in  sugar  while  warm. 

APPLE   SAUCE  CAKE 

MRS.    F.    E.    BRIDGMAN 

1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
1  teaspoon  of  water 

1  cup  of  unsweetened  apple 
sauce 

A  little  nutmeg 


Y<L  cup  of  butter 
2  scant  cups  of  flour 
}/2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
}/2  teaspoon  of  clove 
1  cup  of  raisins 


1  cup  of  sugar 

After  dissolving  soda  put  into  apple  sauce  and  stir  well  before 
adding  it  to  other  mixture. 


ALMOND   CAKE 

MRS.    CAMPBELL 


1  cup  of  sugar  and  }/2  cup  of 

butter,  creamed  together 
Yolks  of  5  eggs 
\%  cups  of  pastry  flour 
Y2  teaspoon  of  soda 
}/2  cup  of  milk 


1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 
1  teaspoon  of  almond  extract 
1  cup  of  blanched  almonds,  cut 

in  strips  and  put  on  top  of 

cake 


Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  about  forty  minutes. 


CAKES,    COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  103 

CUP   CAKES 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

1  cup  of  butter  3  cups  of  pastry  flour,  sifted  with 

3  eggs  3  level  teaspoons  of   baking 
13^2  cups  of  sugar                                 powder 

Y2  CUP  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring 

After  baking  in  small  cups  dust  the  top  of  each  cake  with 
powdered  sugar. 

GINGERBREAD 

MRS.    ANDREW   J.    PETERS 

3^  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  sugar 

Y2  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  milk 

1  teaspoon  of  ginger  1  teaspoon  of  clove 

1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  %  teaspoon  of  soda 
Pinch  of  salt  2  x/i  cups  of  flour 

GINGERBREAD 

MRS.    W.    B.    RUSSELL 

2  cups  of  molasses  J/2  cup  of  butter 

4  cups  of  flour  1  cup  of  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  2  teaspoons  of  ginger 

Pinch  of  salt  Pinch  of  cinnamon 

Dissolve  soda  in  milk  and  put  half  of  flour  in  molasses  and 
butter  before  putting  in  soda  and  milk. 

Serve  hot  with  whipped  cream  or  frost  with  a  cocoanut  icing. 

FAIRY   GINGERBREAD 

MRS.    GEORGE    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Rub  one  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  two  cups  of 
sugar,  and  beat  very  light.  Then  add  one  teaspoon  of  ginger,  one 
cup  of  milk  in  which  three-fourths  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved, and  finally  four  or  four  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Spread 
very  thin  on  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
brown. 


104  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

GINGERBREAD 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

1  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  sour  milk 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  %  cup  of  butter 

2  }/2  CUPS  of  flour  1H  teaspoons  of  ginger 
%  cup  of  sugar 

HELEN'S   GINGERBREAD 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

1  egg,  well  beaten  2  tablespoons  of  sugar 

}/2  pint  of  sour  cream  1J4  CUPS  of  flour 

%  cup  of  darkest  molasses  3^2  teaspoon  of  ginger 

]/2  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

DOUGHNUTS.    "Good" 

MRS.    F.    E.    BRIDGMAN 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  teaspoon  of  butter 

1  egg  1  cup  of  sour  milk 

Nutmeg  Pinch  of  mustard    (prevents 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  soaking  of  fat) 

13^  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar  Flour  to  roll 

DOUGHNUTS 

MRS.    GEORGE   W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

13^  cups  of  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  of  milk  A  little  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  of  butter  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

3  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  Flour  to  roll 
powder 

BUTTER  CAKES 

MRS.   W.    B.    RUSSELL 

1  cup  of  butter  2  cups  of  brown  sugar 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon 

3  cups  of  flour 

Roll  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 
"  Delicious  with  afternoon  tea." 


CAKES,    COOKIES,    AND   GINGERBREADS  105 

DEVIL'S  FOOD.     "BROWNIES" 

MRS.    CAMPBELL 

1  cup  of  sugar  3^  cup  of  melted  butter 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  2  squares  of  chocolate 

1  cup  of  walnuts  1  cup  of  flour  (generous) 

Spread  one-half  inch  thick  in  two  pans  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Do  not  bake  it  hard.  Should  be  soft  when  done.  Can  be 
made  as  "Brownies." 

BROWNIES 

MISS    ROSAMOND   MAY 

1  c\ip  of  sugar  J^  cup  of  butter 

2  eggs,  not  beaten  separately  2  squares  of  melted  chocolate 
}/2  cup  of  English  walnuts  or     %  cup  of  flour 

pecans,  chopped  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Pour  into  shallow  pan  to  about  one-half  inch  thickness,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Cut  when  cool  into 
finger-shaped  pieces. 

JUMBLES 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

Y%  CUP  of  butter  and  1  cup  of     34  cup  of  milk 

sugar,  creamed  together  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  4  tea- 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  spoons  of  baking  powder,  and 

%  teaspoon  of  nutmeg 

Roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  brush  with  egg,  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Bake  on  buttered  sheets,  about  ten  minutes,  in 
hot  oven. 

GINGER  SNAPS.    "Good" 

S.    G.    C. 

1  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  butter  or  other  short-  1  egg 

ening  1  teaspoon  of  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  of  ginger  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  Flour  enough  to  roll  out 


io6 


THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


HERMITS 


s. 


1J^  cups  of  sugar 
Y%  cup  of  soUr  milk 
2  eggs 
Y2  cup  of  butter 


G.    C. 

Y  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

clove,  and  nutmeg 
Y2  teaspoon  of  soda 
%  cup  of  raisins 
3  scant  cups  of  flour 

If  sweet  milk  is  used  substitute  two  even  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder. 

HERMITS 

L.    C. 

J^cup  of  butter  2  eggs 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  heaping  teaspoon  of   baking 

1  tablespoon  of  milk  powder 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins  Flour  to  roll  out 

Roll  out  thin  and  bake  ten  minutes. 


HERMITS 

G.    G.    N. 


Yl  cup  of  sugar 

Y  cup  of  butter 
4  egg 

Y  cup  of  dried  currants 

Y  cup  of  chopped  raisins 
Chill  dough, before  using. 


Y  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
nutmeg,  allspice,  and  soda 

^teaspoon  each  of  clove  and 
mace 

Flour  to  roll  out 


2  cups  of  sugar 
1  cup  of  raisins 

3  cups  of  flour 
1  cup  of  butter 
1  nutmeg 


HERMITS 

HELEN   TREAD  WELL 


Y  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

3  tablespoons  of  milk 
3  eggs 
1  teaspoon  each  of  clove  and 

cinnamon 


Roll  one-fourth  inch  thick  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 


CAKES,   COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  107 


CHOCOLATE   COOKIES 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

y<L  cup  of  butter  2  squares  of  chocolate  (Baker's), 

1  cup  of  sugar  melted  with  4  tablespoons  of 

1  tablespoon  of  milk  sugar  and  a  little  water 

2  eggs  Flour  to  spread  and  a  little  cin- 

namon 
Mix  in  order  given.    Spread  on  sheets  of  tin  and  bake  in  slow 
oven.    Cut  in  squares  while  hot. 

CHOCOLATE  KISSES 

M.    C    H. 

White  of  1  egg,  beaten  stiff,  not     1  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
dry  J/£  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Y2  teaspoon  of  flour  2  squares  of  chocolate,  melted 

Mix  chocolate  with  sugar  and  flour;  add  vanilla  and  egg.    Form 

with  fingers  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  PUFFS 

MISS    L.    M.    HEWINS 

Beat  well  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  add  one-half  pound  of 
sugar.  Scrape  very  fine  one  and  one-half  ounces  of  chocolate, 
dredge  with  flour,  mix  well,  and  add  to  eggs  and  sugar. 

Place  on  buttered  tins  thin  spots  of  sugar  about  the  size  of  a 
half  dollar.  Pile  a  portion  of  the  mixture  upon  each  spot,  sift 
over  them  fine  white  sugar,  and  bake  a  few  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven. 

CHOCOLATE  DROP  WAFERS 

MRS.    B.    L.    PRATT 

2  squares  of  chocolate  1  rounded  tablespoon  of  butter 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  flour 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  }/%  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

Melt  the  chocolate  and  butter  together  and  break  the  eggs  into 
this  mixture.  Add  other  ingredients.  Drop  on  buttered  tins 
with  teaspoon,  making  wafers  about  the  size  of  macaroons.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven. 


108  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

COOKIES.    Plain  or  Fruit 

MARY   IRVING 

2  pounds  of  flour  1  pound  of  butter 
%  pound  of  brown  sugar                4  eggs 

3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder        1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Rub  well  together  the  butter,  sugar,  and  flour,  sifted  with  bak- 
ing powder,  and  mix  with  eggs  and  vanilla.  To  put  in  fruit,  roll 
half  the  dough  fairly  thin,  sprinkle  with  currants,  then  roll  again 
until  as  thin  as  desired. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHERELL 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  creamed  with  one  cup  of  sugar.  Add  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
three  tablespoons  of  milk.    Flour  to  roll  thin. 

DROP  CAKES 

MRS.    F.    C.   JILLSON 

Y2  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  tablespoon  of  molasses  J^  cup  of  milk 

1  egg  }/2  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
1%  cups  of  flour  nutmeg,  and  allspice 

1  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  or  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
raisins 

MOLASSES  DROP  CAKES 

MISS   ROSAMOND   MAY 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  butter 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten     1  cup  of  boiling  water 
together  2  teaspoons  each  of  soda,  ginger, 

2  cups  of  dark  molasses  salt,  and  cinnamon 

6  cups  of  sifted  flour  1  tablespoon  of  cooking  Sherry 

Mix  well  and  drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins.  Bake  only 
enough  for  one  serving.  Save  dough  in  ice  chest  and  bake  fresh 
another  time. 


CAKES,   COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  109 

DROP  MOLASSES   COOKIES 

MRS.    C.    H.    SOUTHER 

Boil  together  for  one  minute  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, and  one  cup  of  sugar.  When  cool  add  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour. 
Drop  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  far  apart,  on  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

DROP   MOLASSES   COOKIES 

MISS   MARGARET   MORSE 

V/2  cups  of  molasses  1  cup  of  flour 

2  scant  tablespoons  of  butter         1  teaspoon  of  ginger 

1  teaspoon  of  soda 

Boil  molasses  ten  minutes,  then  add  other  ingredients  and 
beat.  Drop  on  tins  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  two  inches  apart,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

SPICE  DROP  CAKES 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

^  cup  of  butter  %  salt  spoon  each  of  clove,  nut- 

^  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  fine  meg,  mace,  and  allspice 

cup  of  flour  1  egg,  well  beaten 

^  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

^  cup  of  sugar  4  tablespoons  of  milk 

}/%  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar  gradually  and  raisins,  then  egg.  Mix 
and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  fruit  mixture  with  milk. 
Drop  small  spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  twelve  or  fifteen 
minutes  in  slow  oven. 

PEANUT   COOKIES 

H.  L.  P. 

Cream  together  three  tablespoons  of  peanut  butter,  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar.  Mix  well  with 
two  unbeaten  eggs;  add  three  tablespoons  of  sour  milk  in  which 
one-half  teaspoon  of  soda  is  dissolved.  Beat  in  flour  enough  to 
roll.    Bake  in  hot  oven. 


no  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

BROWN   SUGAR  DROP   CAKES 

MRS.    F.    C.    JILLSON 

2  cups  of  brown  sugar  Y%  cup  of  butter 

1  egg  Y^  cup  of  hot  water 

1  level  teaspoon  of  soda  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

3  cups  of  flour  1  cup  of  chopped  nut  meats 

Drop  from  teaspoon  on  tins  and  bake  in  oven. 

PEANUT  WAFERS 

L.    C. 

1  cup  of  sugar  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  of  milk 

Y2  teaspoon  of  soda  1  cup  of  flour 

1  cup  of  chopped  peanuts  Pinch  of  salt 

Drop  from  teaspoon  on  a  greased  pan  and  bake  a  few  minutes. 

The  flour  should  make  a  stiff  paste. 

One  quart  of  peanuts  makes  one  cup,  shelled  and  chopped. 

PEANUT  CRACKERS 

MRS.    EDWARD    B.    LANE 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff         1  cup  of  peanuts,  chopped  fine 

1  cup  of  powdered  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly,  spread  on  saltine  crackers,  and  brown  in  oven. 
This  quantity  makes  about  three  dozen. 

SPICE  COOKIES 

M.    C.    L. 

1  cup  of  butter  2  cups  of  dark-brown  sugar 

2  egg  yolks  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  of  cloves  3  cups  of  flour 

}/i  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  nut-  %  cup  of  milk 

meg,  and  salt  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the  milk 

1   cup  each  of  nuts  and  raisins,  2  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff  and 
chopped  added  last 


CAKES,    COOKIES,   AND    GINGERBREADS 


in 


"EXTRA  FINE"   MOLASSES   COOKIES 


MRS.    ANDREW   J.    PETERS 

3  tablespoons  of  lard 
Pinch  of  salt 

3  tablespoons  of  hot  water 
1  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 
3^2  teaspoon  each  of  clove  and 
cinnamon 


2  full  cups  of  butter 

1  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  molasses 

1  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  teaspoon  of  ginger 

7  scant  cups  of  sifted  flour 

Put  part  of  butter  and  lard  into  molasses  and  bring  to  boiling 
point.  Mix  the  rest  of  butter  with  the  sugar  and  turn  boiling 
molasses  onto  it.  Mix  the  soda  with  the  hot  water,  rinse  out  the 
molasses  pan,  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  enough  flour  to  mix,  and 
put  on  ice  for  one  or  two  days  before  using.  Pound  out  and  roll 
very  thin.    Bake  on  tins  and  cut  after  cooking. 

These  cookies  will  keep  crisp  a  long  time. 


%  pound  of  butter 
2  eggs 

Flour  to  roll  out 
Peel  of  1  lemon 


ALMOND    COOKIES 

MISS    SCHIRMER 


1  pound  of  sugar 

J^  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  cut 

fine 
Y2  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  beat,  then  add 
almonds  and  lemon.  Add  baking  powder  to  flour  and  roll.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


SAND   TARTS 


1  pound  of  sugar 

x/i  pound  of  blanched  almonds 

Cinnamon 


MRS.    BALDERSTON 

34  pound  of  butter 

1  pound  of  flour 

2  eggs 

Leave  out  the  white  of  one  egg.  Mix  sugar  and  butter,  then 
eggs  and  flour.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut.  Brush  over  each  cake 
with  white  of  egg.  Bake  on  iron  sheet.  Take  out  of  oven  and 
sprinkle  each  piece  with  granulated  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and 
cover  with  chopped  almonds  the  last  thing. 


H2  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

M.    C.    L. 

1  cup  of  peanut  butter  1  cup  of  sugar 

2  tablespoons  of  milk  3^2  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar 
34  teaspoon  of  soda                         Flour  to  stiffen 

Roll  thin,  place  a  half  peanut  on  each  cookie,  and  bake  on  but- 
tered tins. 

THIN  ALMOND   COOKIES 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

Y<l  cup  of  butter  1  cup  of  flour 

1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  Not  quite  3^2  CUP  of  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  milk  and  flour.  Spread 
the  mixture  on  sheets,  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds  (or  shredded 
cocoanut),  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.    While  hot  cut  into  squares. 


DATE  MACAROONS 

S.    S.    B, 

Beat  whites  of  four  eggs  very  stiff;  add  one  pound  of  sifted 
powdered  sugar,  one  pound  of  chopped  dates,  and  one-half  pound 
of  chopped  almonds.  Stir  well,  then  drop  by  teaspoonfuls,  one 
and  one-half  inches  apart,  on  buttered  and  floured  pans  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 

BROWN  BETTIES 

MARY   IRVING 

1  cup  of  butter  1  cup  or  more  of  chopped  nuts 

2  eggs  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 


1  eggs  o  teaspoons  oi  uanii 

2  cups  of  raisins  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
2  tablespoons  of  milk  Enough  sifted  flour 
4  tablespoons  of  molasses  very  stiff  batter  ( 
1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  any  drop  cakes  rec 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar 

2  cups  of  currants 

RqItp  in   nanc     a   toe 


Enough  sifted  flour  to  make  a 
very  stiff  batter  (as  thick  as 
any  drop  cakes  require) .  Test 
one  first 


Bake  in  pans,  a  teaspoonful  to  each  cookie. 


CAKES,   COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  113 

TEA  KISSES 

MRS.    ANDREW   J.    PETERS 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  level  teaspoon  of    cream   of 

2  tablespoons  of  milk  tartar 

Yl  level  teaspoon  of  soda  1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  extract 

2  eggs,  beaten  lightly  2  cups  of  flour  or  a  little  more 

3^2  cup  of  butter 

Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  flat  tin,  put  a  raisin  on  top  of  each 
and  a  little  granulated  sugar.    Have  a  quick  oven  and  watch  them. 

SOUR  MILK  COOKIES 

E.    B.    G. 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  molasses 

%  cup  of  shortening  1  egg 

%  cup  of  sour  cream  or  milk  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  ginger  milk 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  salt  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

Flour  to  roll  out 

CRY  BABIES 

MRS.    PAUL   A.    PETERS 

1  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  egg  Y2  CUP  of  butter 

3/2  cup  of  lard  or  drippings  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

3/£  teaspoon  of  cloves  Y  teaspoon  of  salt 

2  teaspoons  of  soda  1  cup  of  milk 

1  cup  of  raisins  4J^  cups  of  flour 

Drop  from  teaspoon. 

COFFEE   COOKIES 

MRS.    C.    E.    KENDRICK 

1  cup  of  coffee  Yi  CUP  each  of  butter  and  lard 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  molasses 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  Y  teaspoon  of  ginger 

Pinch  of  salt  Flour  to  roll 

Sprinkle  with  sugar  before  baking. 


H4  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

CINCINNATI   COOKIES 

MRS.    H.    B.    CHAPIN 

1  cup  of  butter  2  cups  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

Cinnamon  to  taste  Flour  enough  to  roll  very  thin 

LEMON   CHEESE   CAKES 

MISS    KATHARINE    R.    WENDELL 

1  pound  of  sugar  6  eggs 

J4  pound  of  butter  Juice  and  finely  grated  rind  of  3 

lemons 

Stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Bake  in  a 
puff  paste,  adding  at  the  time  about  six  finely  powdered  crackers. 
After  baking,  lay  over  the  top  some  finely  cut  pieces  of  citron  or 
preserved  lemon  rind. 

H.  O.  MACAROONS 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

Cream  two  level  tablespoons  of  butter  and  add  one-half  cup 
of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
and  add  to  first  mixture.  Stir  in  two  and  one-half  cups  of  H.  O., 
mixed  with  two  and  one-half  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla 
and  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very  dry.  Drop  with 
teaspoon  half  full  on  buttered  tins,  three  inches  apart,  and  bake 
in  slow  oven.    Do  not  stir  much  after  whites  are  in. 


MARGUERITES 

MRS.    WILLIAM   E.    CHAMBERLIN 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  water  cooked  to  a  thick 
syrup.  Melt  in  it  five  marshmallows.  Have  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  stiff  and  pour  the  liquid  into  them.  Add  two  table- 
spoons of  cocoanut,  one  cup  of  walnut  meats,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.     Spread  on  saltines  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 

This  makes  about  forty. 


CAKES,   COOKIES,   AND   GINGERBREADS  115 

MARGURIETS 

MRS.    J.    SIDNEY    STONE 

Cook  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-half  cup  of  water  without  stirring 
until  it  strings  from  spoon.  Pour  over  well-beaten  white  of  one 
egg.  Add  one  cup  of  chopped  pecans.  Spread  on  Saratoga  Flake 
crackers  and  brown  in  oven. 

MARGUERITES 

MISS    HELEN   O.    PENHALLOW 

2  eggs  1  cup  of  brown  sugar 

Y2  cup  of  flour  J4  teaspoon  of  baking  powder 

3^  teaspoon  of  salt  1  cup  of  nut  meats 

Beat  eggs  slightly  and  add  remaining  ingredients  in  order 
given.  Fill  small  buttered  tins  two-thirds  full  of  mixture  and 
place  nut  on  each.    Bake  in  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

COCOANUT   CAKES 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

Whites  of  6  eggs  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar 

1  pound  of  shredded  cocoanut 

Beat  eggs  stiff,  then  add  slowly  sugar  and  cocoanut.  Drop 
with  teaspoon  on  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 


CHAFING-DISH  RECIPES 
MOCK  CRAB 

G.    G.    N. 

Cook  one  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  onion  in  two  and  one-half 
tablespoons  of  butter  for  five  minutes.  Add  three  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  when  well  mixed  stir  in  three-fourths  cup  of  milk. 
When  thick  add: 

1  cup  of  corn  1Y  teaspoons  of  Worcestershire 

Y  teaspoon  of  mustard  sauce 

Y  teaspoon  of  pepper  Y2  teaspoon  of  salt 

Few  grains  of  cayenne 

When  boiling  add  one  beaten  egg.    Serve  on  thin  crackers. 

EGGS  WITH  MACARONI 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,   JR. 

Y  CUP  of  milk  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

Yi  cup  of  canned  mushrooms         1  cup  of  cold  boiled  macaroni 

2  eggs  Y^  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  saltspoon  of  pepper 

Heat  the  milk;  add  the  butter,  the  mushrooms,  cut  fine,  and 
the  macaroni,  then  the  beaten  eggs.  Stir  over  boiling  water  for 
ten  minutes  and  season. 

CHEESE   OMELET 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,   JR. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  6  eggs 

Yl  teaspoon  of  salt  1  saltspoon  of  pepper 

2  tablespoons  of  grated  Swiss     Parmesan  cheese 
cheese 

Melt  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  adding  the  Swiss 
cheese,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  pour  into  the  chafing  dish.  When 
the  edges  are  set  lift  the  edge  with  a  flexible  knife  and  let  the  un- 
cooked egg  run  under.  When  firm  let  it  brown  on  the  bottom. 
Sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  the  top,  fold  over,  and  turn  gently 

116 


CHAFING-DISH   RECIPES  117 

onto  a  hot  dish.    Sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  a  little  Parmesan 
cheese. 

CREAMED   MUSHROOMS 

MR.    W.    CLIFTON  JONES 

Remove  the  stems  and  peel  the  mushrooms.  Melt  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg  and  place  the  mushrooms  in  the  chafing  dish  with 
the  gills  up.  Simmer  until  heated  through;  add  salt  and  pepper, 
then  one  pint  of  milk  with  one  teaspoon  of  flour  stirred  in  it. 
Stir  gently  until  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  serve  on  toast. 

Recipe  of  Somerset  Club  Chef 

MEXICAN  EGGS 

MRS.    E.    L.    YOUNG,    JR. 

1  can  of  tomatoes  7  large  eggs  beaten  with  2  table- 

1  onion,  chopped  fine  spoons  of  flour 

Y2  pound  of  butter  Salt  and  red  pepper 

Cook  over  open  fire  in  hot  water  pan.  Fry  the  onion  brown  in 
a  little  butter,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  butter  and  the  tomatoes. 
Cook  hard  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  put  in  the  beaten  eggs,  stirring 
fast  all  the  time.    Serve  on  crisped  saltines. 

This  is  enough  for  twelve  helpings. 

RINCTUM  DIDDIE 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,        1  cup  of  tomato 

add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  salt 

%  cup  of  cream  3^  teaspoon  of  soda 

Speck  of  cayenne 

Stir  until  smooth  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  cheese,  cut 
fine.  When  melted  shut  off  heat  and  add  two  eggs,  slightly 
beaten. 

CREAMED   SARDINES 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  small  box  of  sardines  13^  cups  of  milk  or  cream 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  large  tablespoon  of  flour 

2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  Speck  of  cayenne 


n8  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  add  the  cream  gradually. 
When  smooth  add  the  sardines,  previously  skinned,  boned,  and 
flaked  with  a  fork.  Heat,  add  cayenne  and  lemon  juice  and,  if 
desired,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

SHAD   ROE 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  pair  of  shad  roe  3  tablespoons  of  butter 

Salt  and  pepper  Juice  of  %  lemon 

Flour  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley 

Before  cooking  in  the  chafing  dish  cook  the  roe  in  boiling  water 
for  twenty  minutes,  drain,  dredge  well  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Melt  the  butter  and  when  hot  saute  the  roe  in  the  butter;  just 
before  serving  add  the  lemon  juice  and  parsley. 

CREAMED   OYSTERS 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  pint  of  oysters  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

1  pint  of  cream  or  milk  2  tablespoons  of  flour 

Yz  teaspoon  of  salt  J^  teaspoon  of  celery  salt 

Yi  saltspoon  of  white  pepper  Dash  of  cayenne 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  when  smooth  add  the  cream 
gradually,  stirring  constantly.  When  smooth  add  the  oysters, 
which  have  been  cleaned,  and  cook  until  the  edges  curl.  Add  the 
seasoning  and  serve  at  once. 

OYSTERS  IN   CHAFING  DISH 

MRS.    S.    W.    ANDREW 

Put  one  quart  of  large  oysters  in  the  chafing  dish  without  the 
hot  water  pan.  When  hot  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  shake  of  pepper.  When  oysters  are  plump 
put  hot  water  pan  underneath.  Take  out  a  little  of  the  hot 
liquor  and  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Add  this  to  the 
oysters  with  two  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice.  Serve  on  hot 
crackers  or  toast. 


CHAFING-DISH  RECIPES  119 

FRIED   OYSTERS 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Clean  and  drain  large  oysters  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Roll  them  in  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg  mixed  with  two  table- 
spoons of  milk,  and  roll  in  crumbs  again.  Cover  the  bottom  of 
chafing  dish  with  olive  oil  and  when  hot  put  in  the  oysters.  Brown 
them  carefully  on  each  side  and  drain  on  paper. 

CREAMED   LOBSTER 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Melt  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  flour, 
add  gradually  one  cup  of  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  cream,  and 
when  smooth  put  in  two  pounds  of  lobster,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Stir  until  heated 
through,  add  one  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  and  serve. 

For  Curried  Lobster  add  one  teaspoon  of  curry  powder  to  the 
flour. 

DEVILED   ROAST  BEEF 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  pint  of  cold  roast  beef,  cut  in     2  teaspoons  of  dry  mustard 

pieces  1  inch  square  J^  saltspoon  of  cayenne 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  Juice  of  J^  lemon 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  Nutmeg 

Y2  cup  of  water  3^  cup  of  Madeira 

Cook  together  the  butter,  salt,  cayenne,  mustard,  and  lemon 
juice.  Mix  well,  add  the  water  and  wine  gradually  and  stir  until 
smooth,  then  add  the  beef.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top 
and  cook  until  the  meat  is  heated  through.  Add  more  seasoning 
if  desired. 

VEAL  AND   ONIONS 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
and  add  two  cups  of  hot  milk,  gradually.  When  smooth  add  six 
small  parboiled  onions  and  stew  five  minutes  with  the  cover  on. 
Add  one-half  cup  of  chopped  celery,  thin  slices  of  cold  cooked  veal, 


120  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

one  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  one  saltspoon  of  white  pepper.    Cook 
five  minutes  and  serve. 

MOCK  VENISON 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

1  slice  of  raw  mutton  1  tablespoon  of  currant  jelly 

}/2  tablespoon  of  butter  J4  CUP  of  Madeira  or  Port  wine 

Salt  Cayenne 

Melt  the.  butter  and  when  hot  put  in  the  mutton  and  cook  a 
few  minutes;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Add  the  jelly  and 
wine.    Simmer  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

VENISON 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

No.  i 

V/2  pounds  of  venison  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

Y2  tumbler  of  jelly  Wineglass  of  Madeira  wine 

Salt  Pepper 

No.  2 

Remove  meat  from  one  can  of  mock  turtle  soup,  heat  the  liquor 
and  cook  the  venison  in  it,  adding  seasonings,  wine,  and  jelly  as 
above. 

CURRIED  TOMATOES 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  one  teaspoon  of  chopped 
onion  and  one  teaspoon  of  curry  powder.  When  well  mixed  add 
tomatoes,  turn  them  often,  and  cook  until  tender.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  serve. 

OYSTER  RABBIT 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

3^  pint  of  oysters  3^  pound  of  cheese,  broken  in 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  bits 

Y2  teaspoon  of  mustard  1  saltspoon  of  salt 

2  eggs  }/2  teaspoon  of  paprika 


CHAFING-DISH   RECIPES  12 1 

Clean  and  remove  the  hard  muscle  from  the  oysters,  parboil 
them  in  their  own  liquor  until  their  edges  curl,  and  remove  to  a 
hot  bowl.  Put  the  butter,  cheese,  salt,  mustard,  and  paprika  in 
the  chafing  dish.  While  the  cheese  is  melting  beat  the  eggs  slightly 
and  add  them  to  the  oyster  liquor.  Mix  this  gradually  with  the 
melted  cheese,  add  the  oysters,  and  turn  onto  hot  toast. 

See  also  recipes  for  Finnan  Haddie  and  Welsh  Rabbit. 


FRUITS,  PICKLES,  AND  PRESERVES 

BOTTLING  FRUIT 

Choose  wide-mouthed  bottles  and  clean  them  thoroughly. 
Pick  just  ripe  fruit,  clean,  and  dry.  Place  in  bottles.  Apples  and 
pears  should  be  sliced  in  quarters,  plums  and  damsons  put  in 
whole.  Fill  the  bottles  with  clean  water  and  stand  them  up  to 
their  necks  in  a  fish  kettle  or  open  boiler.  The  bottles  must  be 
open.  Slowly  bring  the  water  to  a  boil  and  boil  for  twenty  min- 
utes or  half  an  hour.  Take  out  the  bottles  singly,  and  without 
the  smallest  delay  tie  the  mouths  with  clean  bladder  while  the 
water  in  the  bottles  is  at  boiling  heat.  If  corks  are  used  instead  of 
bladders,  scald  them  first.  Insert  them  and  seal  the  tops  with 
sealing  or  bottle  wax. 

Remember  to  boil  the  water  gradually. 

Store  the  bottles  in  any  cool  place. 

Blackberries  can  be  preserved  with  a  smaller  quantity  of  sugar 
than  other  fruit. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

4  quarts  of  small  pickles  3  large  cucumbers,  sliced 

1    quart    of    green    tomatoes,     1  quart  of  small  onions 

chopped  1  cauliflower,  broken  in  pieces 

4  green  peppers,  chopped  1  bunch  of  celery,  cut  in  y%  inch 

1  pint  of  salt  in  1  gallon  of  boil-        pieces 

ing  water 

Let  all  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  boil  until  tender 
and  drain. 

Sauce 

1  cup  of  flour  1  cup  of  sugar 

6  tablespoons  of  mustard  1  tablespoon  of  turmeric 

2  quarts  of  vinegar  2  tablespoons  of  celery  seed 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  mustard,  and  turmeric,  then  add  slowly  vinegar 
enough  to  make  smooth  paste.     Put  paste  in  two  quarts  of  hot 

122 


FRUITS,    PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  123 

vinegar  and  bring  to  boil,  then  add  pickle  and  celery  seed  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes.    Put  in  jars  and  seal  when  cold. 

CHOW-CHOW 

MRS.    G.    E.    BRIGHAM 

1  peck  of  green  peppers  6  onions 

6  red  peppers  3  bunches  of  celery 

6  cucumbers 

Wash  all  and  prepare  for  meat  chopper.  Mix  in  kettle,  cover 
with  salt  (about  one  cup),  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  morning 
drain  well. 

1  cup  of  sugar  Whole  mixed  spices  sewed  in  5 

1  gallon  of  vinegar  lace  bags 

(Ask  for  whole  mixed  spices) 

Bring  vinegar,  spices,  and  sugar  to  boiling  point,  then  add 
chopped  pickle,  and  boil  until  tender.  Add  more  sugar  and  salt 
later  if  necessary. 

PICCALILLI 

MISS   A.    E.    MAYO  r 

1  peck  of  green  tomatoes  2  quarts  of  onions 

4  quarts  of  vinegar  J4  tablespoon  of  cayenne 

34  tablespoon  of  ground  mustard  1  teaspoon  of  turmeric 

2  pounds  of  brown  sugar  }/±  pound  of  white  mustard  seed 
1  tablespoon  of  celery  seed  1  tablespoon  of  ground  cloves 
Y2  ounce  of  ground  mace  3^  CUP  of  olive  oil 

Slice  tomatoes  and  onions  very  thin,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  be- 
tween each  layer  (one  cup  in  all),  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain 
through  a  colander  and  put  on  to  boil  with  enough  vinegar  to 
cover.  Boil  slowly  until  clear  and  tender,  then  drain  from  the 
vinegar. 

In  two  quarts  of  fresh  vinegar  put  the  sugar,  mustard  seed, 
mace,  celery  seed,  and  clove,  let  them  boil  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  pour  over  drained  tomatoes,  which  have  been  mixed  with 
the  cayenne,  ground  mustard,  and  turmeric.  Mix  them  well 
together  and  add  the  olive  oil.    Put  in  jars  when  cold. 

This  makes  a  little  over  eight  pint  jars. 


124  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

MIXED   MUSTARD   PICKLE 

MRS.    LILLIAN   SHAW 

Separate  two  cauliflowers  into  tiny  flowerets.  Remove  the 
seeds  from  one  red  and  four  green  peppers  and  chop  the  pulp 
fine.  Slice  enough  green  tomatoes  and  large  cucumbers  to  make 
one  quart  of  each.  Add  one  quart  each  of  small  whole  cucumbers 
and  small  button  onions. 

Mix  the  vegetables  in  a  large  granite  or  aluminum  kettle  and 
pour  over  them  a  brine  made  of  four  quarts  of  water  and  one 
pint  of  salt.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  bring  to  scalding 
point,  and  drain  through  a  colander. 

Mix  one  cup  of  flour,  six  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard,  and 
one  level  tablespoon  of  turmeric ;  stir  to  a  paste  with  cold  vinegar. 
Add  sugar  (about  two  cups  of  brown  and  one  cup  of  white)  and 
stir,  as  it  thickens,  until  smooth.  Add  the  vegetables  and  cook 
until  well  heated  through  and  soft.  Turn  into  glass  jars  and  seal 
as  usual. 

This  can  be  made  of  cauliflower,  or  string  beans,  celery,  and 
cabbage  may  be  used. 

SLICED   CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

MRS.    B.    H.    BAILEY 

Slice  three  or  four  hundred  medium-sized  pickle  cucumbers, 
sprinkle  salt  over  each  layer,  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours; 
then  drain.    To  one  gallon  of  vinegar  allow: 
1  cup  of  olive  oil  1  gill  each  of  black  and  white 

34  pound  of  celery  seed  mustard  seed 

Put  sliced  cucumbers  in  glass  jars  in  layers,  sprinkling  black 
pepper  and  the  mixed  seed  between.  Over  all,  when  the  jar  is 
nearly  full,  pour  the  mixed  oil  and  vinegar  to  fill  the  jar.  It 
should  stand  two  or  three  months  before  using. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

MRS.    E.    U.    HARRINGTON 

Slice  thirty  cucumbers  very  thin  (not  peeled)  and  soak  in  weak 
brine  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  but  do  not  wash.  Let 
drain  a  half  day. 


FRUITS,   PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  125 

Mix  one  cup,  very  full,  of  olive  oil,  one-fourth  cup  each  of  black 
and  white  mustard  seed,  and  two  tablespoons  of  celery  seed. 
Pour  over  drained  cucumbers  and  stir  hard,  mixing  well.  Keep 
in  a  covered  stone  crock.  Put  in  the  pickle  a  piece  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  cherry. 

Fifteen  cucumbers  make  about  one  gallon. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

MRS.    M.    W.    SHORE 

6  ripe  tomatoes  2  large  green  peppers 

2  onions  4  tablespoons  of  white  sugar 

2  cups  of  cider  vinegar  1  tablespoon  of  salt 

Chop  well  and  boil  one  hour.    Bottle  and  seal  tight. 

CHILI   SAUCE 

MRS.    CHARLES    HILL 

24  large  ripe  tomatoes  6  green  peppers 

4  large  onions  3  tablespoons  of  salt 

8  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar         4  cups  of  vinegar 

Chop  pepper  and  onions  very  fine  and  add  tomatoes  cut  up. 
Add  one  teaspoon  of  each  kind  of  spice  and  boil  gently  one  or  two 
hours. 

CHILI   SAUCE 

MISS   KATHARINE    R.    WENDELL 

6  large  ripe  tomatoes  4  green  peppers 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar  1  onion 

\]/2  cups  of  strong  vinegar  1  tablespoon  of  salt 

Chop  peppers  and  onion  and  boil  all  together  for  one  hour. 

SWEET  PICKLED   PEARS 

MRS.    HENRY    L.    RAND 

Peel  the  pears  first  and  (unless  very  small  ones)  cut  in  thirds, 
leaving  out  cores.  If  very  small  pears  they  can  be  pickled  whole. 
6  pounds  of  fruit  (3  quarts)  8  dozen  cloves 

3  pounds  of  sugar  1  quart  of  vinegar 


126  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

Put  the  vinegar,  sugar,  and  cloves  on  the  stove  in  large  kettle ; 
when  hot  add  the  pears  and  cook  until  tender. 

SWEET  PICKLED  TOMATOES 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

1  peck  of  green  tomatoes  6  large  onions 

1  cup  of  salt  4  quarts  of  cider  vinegar 

V/2  pounds  of  sugar  3^  pound  of  mustard  seed 

1  tablespoon  each  of  cloves,  all-  1   teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper 
spice,   ginger,    and  mustard,         if  desired  hot 

ground  1  quart  of  vinegar 

2  quarts  of  water 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Drain  off  the  water,  boil  them  in  vinegar  and  water 
fifteen  minutes,  then  drain  well.  Boil  the  four  quarts  of  cider 
vinegar  with  the  sugar  and  spices,  add  the  pickles,  and  cook 
slowly  twenty  minutes. 

GREEN  TOMATO   PICKL# 

MRS.    EDWARD    B.    LANE 

8  pounds  of  tomatoes  3  onions 

4  pounds  of  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  salt 

1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon  1  tablespoon  of  clove 

1  nutmeg,  grated  1  gallon  of  cider  vinegar 

Slice  the  tomatoes  and  onions  rather  thin.  Boil  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  together  and  skim.  Add  the  spices  and  last  the  tomatoes. 
Boil  five  minutes. 

VIRGINIA  SWEETMEATS 

MRS.    E.    U.    HARRINGTON 

Slice  the  watermelon  rind  and  peel  off  the  green.  Put  in  brine 
strong  enough  to  float  an  egg,  and  let  stand  a  week  or  more. 
Take, out  and  put  in  fresh  water,  and  change  the  water  for  three 
days  until  the  brine  is  all  out.  Scald  in  alum  water,  using  just 
alum  enough  to  taste  in  water.  Drop  in  cold  water  and  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours.     Boil  in  ginger  tea  and  drop  in  cold  water 


FRUITS,   PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  127 

again.    Make  a  syrup  of  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water 
to  every  pound  of  rind.    Season  with  mace  and  cinnamon.    Slice 
two  lemons  and  boil  in  syrup.     Cook  until  clear. 
Use  white  ginger  root  for  the  ginger  tea. 

WATERMELON  PICKLE 

MRS.   EDGAR  O.   ACHORN 

Peel  the  green  skin  from  watermelon  rind  and  cut  rind  in  pieces 
about  an  inch  square.  Soak  over  night  in  alum  water  to  cover, 
using  one  tablespoon  of  powdered  alum  to  one  quart  of  water. 
In  the  morning  pour  off  alum  water  and  cover  with  clear  water  for 
two  hours.  Remove  from  water,  put  in  preserving  kettle,  and 
cover  with  vinegar.  Add  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar  to  each 
quart  of  vinegar,  and  one-half  package  of  whole  mixed  spices,  tied 
in  cheesecloth  bag.    Cook  until  watermelon  is  clear. 

This  keeps  well  in  a  stone  jar. 

In  making  a  large  quantity  leave  the  spice  bag  in  the  pickle, 
but  with  a  small  quantity  it  is  best  to  remove  it. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

MRS.   WILLIAM   F.    HASTINGS 

1  large  grapefruit  1  large  lemon  1  large  orange  (Florida) 

Pare  the  fruit  and  put  the  peel  through  the  coarse  part  of  the 
meat  chopper.  Slice  the  orange  and  lemon  very  thin  and  fine 
and  remove  the  pulp  from  the  grapefruit.  Mix  all  together  with 
the  peel  and  to  every  cup  of  the  mixture  add  three  cups  of  water. 
Let  it  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 
Let  it  stand  another  night.  The  next  morning  add  one  cup  of 
sugar  to  every  cup  of  the  mixture  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  about 
two  hours.    This  should  make  about  one  dozen  glasses. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

MRS.    C.    E.    KENDRICK 

Five  oranges  and  one  lemon.  Allow  three  pints  of  water  to 
one  pound  of  fruit.  Slice  fruit  thin  in  the  evening;  put  water  over 
fruit  and  let  stand  over  night.    In  the  morning  boil  three-quarters 


128  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

of  an  hour  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Let  stand  over  night  again. '  In 
the  morning  allow  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  to  each  pound 
of  fruit  and  juice.    Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  it  jells. 

PEACH  AND   ORANGE   MARMALADE 

s.  s.  b. 

To  twenty-five  peaches,  pared  and  sliced,  add  six  seedless 
oranges,  cut  in  halves  and  sliced  in  round  pieces.  Add  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Cook  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  the  morning 
and  put  in  glasses. 

PICKLED   LIME   MARMALADE 

MISS   A.    E.    MAYO 

Wipe  one  dozen  medium-sized  green  tomatoes  and  drain  one 
dozen  selected  pickled  limes.  Force  through  a  meat  grinder,  put 
in  a  saucepan,  add  six  cups  of  sugar,  bring  to  boiling  point,  and 
let  simmer  three  hours.  Fill  jelly  glasses  with  the  mixture,  cool, 
and  seal. 

This  makes  about  eleven  glasses. 

GRAPEFRUIT  MARMALADE 

MRS.  EDGAR  O.  ACHORN 

To  one  medium-sized  grapefruit,  cut  in  thin  slices,  add  one  quart 
of  cold  water  and  let  stand  over  night.  Cook  for  half  an  hour, 
then  add  juice  of  two  lemons  and  one  scant  quart  of  sugar.  Cook 
for  one  hour  or  more. 

CRANBERRY  MARMALADE 

MRS.    CHARLES    H.    SOUTHER 

Wash  three  quarts  of  cranberries,  barely  cover  with  hot  water, 
and  cook  until  tender.  Squeeze  through  strainer;  add  six  pounds 
of  warmed  granulated  sugar,  two  pounds  of  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins,  juice  and  chopped  rind  of  four  large  ripe  oranges.  Cook 
until  rather  thick  and  put  in  jelly  glasses.    Cover. 


FRUITS,   PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  129 

GRAPE  AND   ORANGE   MARMALADE 

MISS   A.    E.    MAYO 

Four  pounds  of  grapes,  pulped.  Cook  pulp  until  soft,  then  put 
through  colander  to  remove  seeds.  One  pound  of  seedless 
raisins;  two  oranges,  chopped  fine,  skin  and  all;  three  pounds  of 
sugar.    Add  skins  and  pulp  and  cook  half  an  hour. 

This  makes  thirteen  glasses. 

APPLE   CHUTNEY 

MRS.    M.    W.    RICHARDSON 

Chop  very  fine  twenty-four  sour  apples,  two  onions,  and  five 
peppers.  Add  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  one  cup  of  currant  jelly 
and  cook  one  hour.  Add  one  package  of  chopped  raisins,  four 
cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  ginger,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
cayenne,  two  tablespoons  of  salt,  and  five  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice.    Cook  together  one  hour,  stirring  often.    Seal. 

HEAVENLY  HASH 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

1  box  of  currants  1  large  orange 

1  cup  of  raisins  3  scant  cups  of  sugar 

Boil  slowly  one  hour  or  more. 

This  makes  about  one  quart. 

SPICED   GRAPES 

MISS    H.    J.    PEARCE 

8  pounds  of  pulped  grapes  4  pounds  of  brown  sugar 

1  cup  of  vinegar  Cinnamon,  mace,  and  cloves 

Scald  the  pulp  and  strain  through  a  colander.  Add  the  skins, 
sugar,  and  spices.  Boil  until  thick;  add  vinegar  and  boil  gently, 
stirring  often  until  it  thickens.     (This  scorches  very  easily.) 

PRESERVED   STRAWBERRIES 

MRS.    C    HARRINGTON 

Weigh  one  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Put  sugar  in 
kettle  with  just  water  enough  to  prevent  burning.    Boil  to  a  syrup 


13  o  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

and  put  in  as  many  berries  at  a  time  as  will  cover  the  top  of  the 
syrup  without  crowding.  Let  them  boil  twenty  minutes  and  take 
them  out  separately,  so  as  not  to  break  them.  Put  them  in  a  dish 
to  cool  separately. 

GINGER  PEARS 

"north  billerica" 

8  pounds   of   pears,    quartered     34  pound  of  Canton  ginger 
and  cut  in  small  pieces  2  lemons,  cut  in  small  pieces  and 

4  pounds  of  sugar  .     seeded 

1  quart  of  water 
Cook  slowly  three  hours. 


GINGER  PEARS 

MRS.    GEORGE   W.    ROLLINS 

8  pounds  of  pears  6  pounds  of  sugar 

2  ounces  of  white  ginger  root 

Pare  the  fruit  and  cut  it  in  halves.  Make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and 
water,  using  as  little  water  as  possible.  Add  ginger  and  pears  and 
cook  several  hours,  slowly. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE 

S.    S.    B . 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  quart  of  cranberries,  put  in  a  kettle 
with  two-thirds  cup  of  water,  and  boil  until  skins  break.  Strain 
and  add  one-fourth  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  two-thirds  cup  of 
water,  one-half  pound  of  walnut  meats,  broken  into  fine  pieces, 
one  orange,  cut  fine,  and  one  pound  of  sugar.    Boil  twenty  minutes. 

BEACH  PLUM   MARMALADE 

M.    C.    L. 

Boil  beach  plums  until  soft  and  rub  through  a  coarse  strainer. 
To  three  cups  of  juice  add  four  cups  of  sugar.  Boil  until  ready  to 
jell. 


FRUITS,   PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  131 

PLUM   CONSERVE 

M.    C.    L. 

3  pounds  of  plums,  stoned  before     3  pounds  of  sugar 
weighing  1  pound  of  English  walnuts,  cut 

3  oranges,  ground,  rind  and  all  rather  fine 

Juice  of  3  lemons 
Cook  for  one  hour  without  the  sugar.     Add  sugar  and  cook 
slowly  about  two  hours. 

One  peck  of  plums  weighs  about  ten  pounds  after  being  stoned. 

GRAPE   CONSERVE 

MISS    SCHIRMER 

5  pounds  of  Concord  grapes  5  pounds  of  sugar 

2  pounds  of  seeded  raisins  2  pounds  of  walnuts 

2  oranges 

Pulp  grapes  and  boil  pulps  until  soft;  then  strain  and  remove 
seeds.  Add  juice  to  skins;  add  raisins,  orange  pulp,  and  peel  of 
orange,  chopped  fine.  When  boiling  add  the  sugar  and  boil  ten 
minutes;  add  walnuts,  chopped  fine,  and  boil  five  minutes  more. 
Seal  when  cold. 

GRAPE  JIM-JAM 

MRS.    C.    H.    SOUTHER 

Crush  five  quarts  of  grapes  in  a  preserving  kettle,  add  two  cups 
of  water,  and  boil  until  fruit  is  well  cooked;  then  strain.  To 
two  quarts  of  this  juice  add  juice  and  finely  chopped  rind  of  two 
oranges  and  one  pound  of  large  seeded  raisins ;  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Add  five  and  one-half  pounds  of  white  sugar,  warmed  in  the 
oven,  and  boil  five  minutes.  Turn  into  jelly  glasses  and  when 
cool  cover  with  paraffin. 

This  served  with  game  is  especially  fine. 

APPLE   GINGER 

MRS.    GEORGE    HARRINGTON 

4  pounds  of  apples,  cored,  pared,     Grated  rind  and  juice  of  3  lemons 

and  cut  in  pieces  1  ounce  of  ginger  root 

4  pounds  of  light-brown  sugar       Water  to  cover  bottom  of  pan 
Cook  slowly  four  hours,  or  until  light  and  clear. 


i3 2  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

RHUBARB   CONSERVE 

"north  billerica" 

Six  pounds  of  rhubarb,  cut  as  for  sauce.  Sprinkle  over  it  five 
pounds  of  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  Add  two  lemons,  sliced 
and  cut  fine,  and  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins.  Boil  slowly  four 
hours. 

JAPANESE  KOTO 

MRS.    M.    W.    RICHARDSON 

Cut  five  pounds  of  rhubarb  stalks  in  inch  pieces,  add  five 
pounds  of  sugar,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour 
boiling  water  over  1}4  pounds  of  figs,  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  add 
to  the  rhubarb,  with  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons.  Boil 
until  thick. 

MACEDOINE 

A.    I.    FISKE 

2  boxes  of  currants  2  boxes  of  raspberries 

2  oranges  2  lemons 

%  pound  of  raisins 

Mash  the  currants,  after  having  washed  and  drained  well,  and 
extract  the  juice.  Boil  the  refuse  in  about  one  pint  of  water  until 
it  becomes  red.  Strain  and  boil  in  this  water  the.  orange  and 
lemon  skins,  cleansed  and  ground,  and  the  raisins,  also  ground. 
Add  the  lemon  and  orange  juice.  Clean  the  raspberries  and  boil 
until  soft  in  a  little  water.  Put  all  ingredients  together  and  boil 
until  there  is  not  much  liquid;  then  add  an  equal  bulk  of  sugar 
and  boil  gently  thirty  minutes. 

COLD  TOMATO   RELISH 

M.    C.    L. 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes.  Peel,  chop,  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Add  four  green  peppers,  seeded  and  chopped,  two  cups  of 
chopped  celery,  five  ounces  of  white  mustard  seed,  five  onions, 
chopped  very  fine,  one-half  cup  of  salt,  four  cups  of  brown  sugar, 
and  five  cups  of  vinegar.  Stir  all  together  thoroughly  and  put  up 
cold.    No  cooking. 


FRUITS,    PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  133 

BORDEAUX  SAUCE 

MRS.    E.    PEABODY     GERRY 

1  peck  of  green  tomatoes  6  onions 

1  red  and  2  green  peppers  1  head  of  cabbage  (2  pounds) 

Y2  cup  of  salt 

Boil  until  tender,  drain,  and  add: 

3  pounds  of  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  whole  allspice 

1  tablespoon  of  whole  cloves  2  tablespoons  of  mustard  seed 

1  bunch  of  celery  1}^  quarts  of  vinegar 

Cook  until  tender. 

PLUM   CONSERVE 

MRS.    CHARLES    S.    PENHALLOW 

Five  pounds  of  eating  plums;  grated  rind  and  juice  of  five 
oranges  and  one  lemon ;  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  small  seedless 
raisins  (if  large  ones  are  used  chop  them) .  Cut  plums  in  halves  and 
remove  stones.  Add  raisins  and  grated  rind  and  juice  of  oranges 
and  lemon.  Place  on  stove  and  cook  slowly  for  one  hour;  then 
add  three  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  and  cook  slowly  about 
two  hours  longer. 

MINT  JELLY 

M.    C.    H. 

Soak  one  tablespoon  of  granulated  gelatine  in  cold  water 
enough  to  cover.  Boil  one  cup  of  vinegar  with  one  cup  of  sugar 
until  it  thickens  slightly  (about  five  minutes  after  it  begins  to 
boil).  Add  softened  gelatine,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  salt 
and  paprika,  and  stir  until  gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add  three-fourths 
cup  of  fresh  mint  leaves,  finely  chopped,  set  dish  in  iced  water, 
and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  well;  then  pour  into  small  molds. 
Serve  with  roast  lamb. 

MINT  JELLY 

MRS.    A.    N.    BROUGHTON 

Wipe  one  peck  of  Porter  apples,  remove  stems  and  blossom  ends, 
and  cut  in  eighths.  Put  in  kettle,  add  two  quarts  of  cold  water, 
cover,  and  simmer  until  apples  are  soft.  Mash,  using  a  wooden 
potato  masher,  and  drain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Allow  juice  to 
drip  through  several  thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  Return  juice  to 
kettle  and  boil  twenty  minutes;  then  add  an  equal  amount  of 


134  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

heated  sugar.  Bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  for  five  minutes. 
Take  a  large  bunch  of  fresh  mint;  wash  and  bruise  some  of  the 
leaves  slightly  by  pressing  between  the  fingers.  Hold  bunch  by 
string  and  pass  through  and  through  the  syrup  until  the  desired 
strength  of  mint  flavor  is  obtained.  This  process  takes  the  last 
three  minutes  of  the  cooking.  Add  two  tablespoons  of  lemon 
juice  and  color  green,  using  vegetable  green  paste.  Strain  and 
turn  into  jelly  glasses.  Put  in  a  sunny  window  and  let  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours. 

QUINCE  JELLY 

J  J I  G.    G.    N. 

8  quinces ;  use  skin  and  cores  as     2  quarts  of  cranberries 
well  as  flesh  A  little  over  3  quarts  of  water 

Boil  together,  strain,  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 

CURRANT  JELLY     ^^J^^^         y 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

To  four  quarts  of  currants  on  the  stem  add  one  quart  of  water 
and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Drain  through  muslin  over  colander 
without  squeezing.  Measure  one  pint  of  juice  to  one  pound  of 
sugar.  Boil  juice  fifteen  minutes.  Heat  the  sugar,  add  to  juice, 
and  boil  five  minutes.    Strain  into  tumblers. 

TOMATO   BUTTER 

MRS.    T.    G.    REES 

7  pounds  of  pared  ripe  tomatoes   3  pounds  of  brown  sugar 
1  pint  of  vinegar  1  ounce  of  powdered  cinnamon 

3^2  ounce  of  whole  cloves 
Simmer  three  hours.    Keeps  without  sealing. 

TO   COOK  CRANBERRIES 

MRS.    B.    W.    MUNROE 

Wash  and  drain  the  cranberries.  Put  them  in  a  deep  dish,  pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  let  stand  until  sugar  is  boiled.  Use 
one  quart  of  sugar  to  three  pints  of  cranberries.  Boil  the  sugar, 
with  quite  a  little  water,  to  a  syrup,  not  more  than  ten  minutes. 
Drain  the  cranberries  and  pour  them  into  the  sugar;  let  them  boil 


FRUITS,   PICKLES,   AND   PRESERVES  135 

up  once  all  over,  then  put  into  glass  jars  like  any  other  preserve. 
Do  not  stir  any  more  than  is  necessary.  This  is  a  quick  way 
and  keeps  fruit  from  being  mashed. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY 

E.    G.    W. 

4  quarts  of  cranberries        1  quart  of  water  2  quarts  of  sugar 

Wash  and  pick  over  cranberries,  put  in  kettle  with  water,  and 
boil  for  ten  minutes;  then  add  sugar  and  boil  six  minutes  more. 
Strain  or  not,  as  desired,  and  put  in  glasses.  This  will  harden  in  a 
short  time  and  turn  out  of  mold  in  perfect  shape. 

HORSE  RADISH  SAUCE 

MRS.    WILLIAM   PRATT 

Beat  one-fourth  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream  and  mix  with  it  one- 
fourth  pint  of  cream,  half  a  stick  of  horse  radish,  grated  fine, 
pepper,  salt,  and  white  vinegar  to  taste.  The  sauce  should  be 
as  thick  as  good  cream  and  should  be  kept  cool. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

See  Pudding  and  Ice  Cream  Sauces. 

GRAPEFRUIT 

MRS.    A.   J.    PETERS 

Prepare  grapefruit.  Cut  out  the  fruit,  sweeten,  put  back  with 
white  grapes  and  Maraschino  cherries,  and  pour  over  a  little 
cordial. 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

To  Serve  as  First  Course  at  Luncheon 

From  the  red  part  of  a  watermelon,  the  yellow  part  of  a  cante- 
loupe,  and  the  white  or  light  green  part  of  an  ordinary  melon 
scoop  out  balls  with  a  potato-ball  cutter.  Add  Maraschino  cher- 
ries, chill  on  the  ice,  heap  in  tall  grapefruit  glasses,  and  before 
serving  pour  over  some  of  the  Maraschino  liquor  or  a  little  rum 
or  Sherry.    Decorate  with  a  small  sprig  of  mint. 


CONFECTIONERY 
CANDY  PASTE 

MISS    RITA   BRIGHAM 

Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and  three-fourths  cup  of  hot 
water,  boiled  with  the  red  tablet  of  Knox's  gelatine.  Dissolve 
two  envelopes  of  Knox's  gelatine  in  three-fourths  cup  of  cold  water. 
When  sugar  boils  put  in  gelatine  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 
Take  from  stove  and  add  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange, 
two  tablespoons  of  Sherry,  one-half  cup  of  cherries,  and  one  cup 
of  English  walnuts,  chopped.  Turn  into  a  cooled  pan  and  let 
stand  five  or  six  hours;  then  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

TURKISH  DELIGHT 

M.    C.    L. 

1  package  of  gelatine,  soaked  in     4  cups  of  sugar 
1  cup  of  lukewarm  water  3^  CUP  o£  'hot  water 

Boil  ten  minutes.     Add  five  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice,  nine 

tablespoons  of  orange  juice,  and  the  grated  rind  of  one  orange. 

Cook  ten  minutes  longer.     Add  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts, 

pour  into  a  buttered  pan,  and  let  stand  over  night.     Cut  into 

squares  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

MRS.    WINTHROP    C.    DURFEE 

1  cup  of  brown  sugar  1  cup  of  white  sugar 

%  cup  of  molasses  1  cup  of  milk 

%  cake  of  Baker's  chocolate,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch 
grated 

Stir  together  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
pour  on  buttered  tins,  and  cut  in  squares  when  nearly  cold. 

It  is  best  to  try  before  taking  it  off,  by  dropping  a  little  on  a 
buttered  plate.  It  will  show  plainly  by  its  hardness  if  it  has  been 
cooked  long  enough. 

136 


CONFECTIONERY  137 


CARAMELS 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

V/i  cups  of  molasses  V/±  cups  of  sugar 


1  cup  of  grated  chocolate  J^  cup  of  milk 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg  Pinch  of  salt 


BUTTER  SCOTCH 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 

}/2  cup  of  butter  }/%  cup  of  milk 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  of  molasses 

When  boiled  enough  add  a  little  soda,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
and  one  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts  or  any  other  nut  pre- 
ferred. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE 

ADA   M.    ELDREDGE 

2  cups  of  white  sugar  %  cup  of  Karo  Corn  syrup 

~j/s  cup  of  cold  water 

Boil  together  until  it  hardens  quickly  in  cold  water.  Have 
ready  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  chopped  wal- 
nuts. Add  syrup  to  whites,  slowly,  beating  all  the  time.  When 
nearly  stiff  add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  the  nuts  and  beat 
until  as  white  and  stiff  as  possible.  Pour  on  buttered  pans  and 
cut  like  fudge. 

A  dry  day  and  cooking  the  syrup  until  it  hardens  quickly  will 
give  success. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

MRS.    W.    O.    WITHE  RE  LL 

2  cups  of  sugar  34  CUP  oi  butter 

}/2  cup  of  milk  13^2  squares  of  chocolate  or  2 

tablespoons  of  cocoa 

Boil  all  together  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  it  will  form  a 
soft  ball.  Take  from  fire,  add  a  little  vanilla,  one  cup  of  nuts  or 
raisins  if  desired,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into  buttered  pans 
and  cut  in  squares. 


138  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

MRS.    FREDERICK   SWAN 

}/$  cup  of  cream  1^  CUP  of  cold  water 

2  cups  of  granulated  sugar  6  tablespoons   of   cocoa   or    2 
%  cup  of  milk  squares  of  chocolate 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  2  teaspoons  of  vanilla 

Bring  to  a  boil  the  sugar,  cream,  and  water;  add  cocoa  and  boil 
six  minutes ;  add  butter  and  boil  three  minutes.  Take  off  and  beat 
until  cold. 

MARSHMALLOW  FUDGE 

L.    C. 

3  squares  of  chocolate  2  scant  cups  of  sugar 
%  cup  of  milk 

Boil  about  three  minutes  and  add  one  tablespoon  of  butter. 
When  dissolved  add  one  tablespoon  of  marshmallow  cream. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  beat.  Pour 
into  pan  dotted  with  bits  of  marshmallow  cream. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CANDY 

M.    C.    L. 

One-half  cup  of  cream  and  four  teaspoons  of  peanut  butter, 
creamed  over  the  fire  until  smooth.  Add  one-half  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  one-half  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  butter.  Cook  the  same  as  any  fudge. 
Take  off  and  beat  in  one  dozen  marshmallows,  cut  in  quarters, 
and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

COCOANUT  CANDY 

L.    C. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted  in  milk.  Add 
three  cups  of  sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  one  cup  of 
shredded  cocoanut  and  boil  two  minutes.  Beat  hard  and  add 
a  little  vanilla. 


BEVERAGES 

"Flow  wine,  smile  woman 

And  the  universe  is  consoled" 

—  Old  Proverb. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

MRS.    C.    FRANK  ALLEN.      MRS.    SAMUEL  B.    CAPEN 

Wash  and  stem  ripe  Concord  grapes.  Mash  and  put  into  pre- 
serving kettle.  Cook  slowly  until  well  broken  open,  then  strain 
and  to  each  quart  of  juice  add  one  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  five  minutes, 
skim,  and  seal  in  glass  bottles  or  jars. 

One  cup  of  this  juice  to  three  cups  of  cold  water  makes  an 
agreeable  drink. 

PINEAPPLE  WINE 

MRS.   J.    S.    STONE 

Cut  up  a  whole  pineapple  and  put  in  pitcher  with  two  quarts 
of  water,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  ground 
ginger.  Let  ferment  over  night,  strain,  and  serve  with  cracked 
ice. 

If  preferred  the  cores  and  rinds  of  two  pineapples  may  be  used. 

DANDELION  WINE 

MRS.   J.    S.    STONE 

Four  quarts  of  boiling  water  poured  on  one  quart  of  dandelion 
blossoms.    Let  stand  twenty-four  hours  in  a  crock. 

Cut  up  four  oranges  and  four  lemons,  not  peeled,  and  cover  with 
four  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.    Let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 

Combine  two  mixtures  and  add  one-half  yeast  cake.  Let  stand 
four  or  five  days,  then  strain  through  cheesecloth,  and  put  in 
bottles.    Cork  lightly  for  three  or  four  weeks,  then  seal. 

This  makes  a  dozen  bottles. 

139 


140 


THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 


PUNCH 

MRS.    F.    C.   JILLSON 

3  dozen  lemons  2  dozen  oranges 

Y2  dozen  bananas  1   large   bottle   of   Maraschino 

3  siphons  of  Vichy  cherries 

4  pounds  of  sugar  1  pineapple,  shredded 

Squeeze  the  oranges  and  lemons  and  boil  the  skins  with  about 
one  pint  of  water  and  half  the  sugar.  Mash  the  bananas  and  mix 
with  the  pineapple  and  cherries  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar. 

The  punch  is  better  if  fruit  and  sugar  are  prepared  the  day  be- 
fore using.    A  quart  of  weak  tea  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Just  before  serving  add  the  Vichy  and  ice. 

CLARET  PUNCH 

MRS.    F.    C.   JILLSON 

To  make  one-half  gallon:  Over  a  large  piece  of  ice  pour  three 
pints  of  claret,  one  quart  of  lemonade,  made  with  three  lemons, 
and  six  tablespoons  of  Jamaica  rum.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  let 
stand  half  an  hour  or  more.  Serve  in  each  glass  mint,  straw- 
berries, pineapple,  and  orange. 


AFTERNOON  TEA  PUNCH 

MRS.    W.    E.    CHAMBERLIN 


1  quart  of  pure  grape  juice 
4  lemons 

2  bananas 
2  oranges 

Any  fruit  can  be  added. 


3  cups  of  sugar 

Water,  to  taste  (1  quart  water 
to  1  quart  juice) 


*        WHITE  WINE  CUP.    For  Receptions,  etc. 

MISS    CAROLINE    B.    CLARK 

3  bottles  of  white  wine  1    bottle    of    American   cham- 

1  bottle  of  Apollinaris  pagne 

This  makes  one  gallon.  Yi  tumbler  of  Maraschino 


BEVERAGES  141 

MULLED   WINE.     Old  Porter  House  Recipe 

MRS.    GEORGE    W.    ABBOT 

Eight  eggs  to  one  quart  (one  pint  of  Sherry  wine  and  one  pint 
of  water) .  Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  beating  eight  table- 
spoons of  sugar  with  the  yolks.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  and 
mix  all  together.  Have  the  wine  and  water  boiling  and  pour 
over  the  egg,  stirring  always.    Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

PILGRIM  PUNCH 

MRS.    J.    S.    STONE 

To  one  part  of  grape  juice  and  two  parts  of  ginger  ale  add  iced 
tea,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  sugar  to  taste.    Serve  ice  cold. 


SANDWICHES 

CHICKEN   SANDWICHES 

MRS.    CHARLES    S.    PENHALLOW 

Equal  parts  of  chicken  and  celery,  chopped.  Moisten  with 
rich  chicken  stock  and  cover  with  broken  bits  of  crisp  sliced 
bacon. 

NUT  AND    CHEESE   SANDWICHES 

MRS.    G.    W.    WHEELWRIGHT,    JR. 

Mix  equal  parts  of  grated  Gruyere  cheese  and  chopped  English 
walnuts,  then  season  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

CHEESE   FILLINGS 

G.    G.    N. 

Cream  cheese  mixed  with  chutney. 
Cream  cheese  mixed  with  mustard. 
Cream  cheese  mixed  with  pimento. 

SALMON   SANDWICHES 

G.    G.    N. 

Boiled  and  finely  shredded  smoked  salmon.  Put  between 
pieces  of  bread,  toasted  and  served  hot. 

HORSE  RADISH   FILLING 

MRS.    EDWARD    L.    YOUNG,    JR. 

6  tablespoons  of  butter  5  tablespoons  of  grated  horse- 

1  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice  radish  root 

Few  grains  of  salt 

Cream  butter;  add  gradually  horse  radish,  lemon  juice,  and  salt. 
Spread  on  thin  slices  of  bread,  shaped  with  a  cutter.  Serve  with 
ginger  ale. 

142 


SANDWICHES  143 


DATE  FILLING 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

Wash  the  dates  and  remove  the  stones.  To  one  pound  of  dates 
allow  one-half  pound  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one  level  teaspoon 
of  butter,  and  the  grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon.  Simmer  until 
thick.    Pour  into  jelly  glasses  any  that  is  not  used. 

DATE  AND   NUT  FILLING 

M.    C.    L. 

Mash  together  dates  and  chopped  nuts.  Spread  between  slices 
of  whole  wheat  bread. 

CHEESE  FILLING 

H.  L.  P. 

Mix  together  cottage  cheese  and  pineapple. 

SALMON   SANDWICHES 

MRS.    A.    J.    PETERS 

Cut  thin  slices  of  graham  bread  and  fill  with  cold  boiled  salmon, 
picked  fine  and  rubbed  to  a  soft  paste  with  salad  oil,  the  yolk  of 
an  egg  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  a  few 
chopped  olives. 


144  THE  FAULKNER  COOK  BOOK 

TO   SERVE  WITH  AFTERNOON  TEA 

Spread  saltines  with  cream  cheese  and  put  candied  cherry  in 
center. 

Spread  thin  small  rounds  of  white  bread  with  cream  cheese  and 
sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  green  pepper. 

Dip  small  squares  of  white  bread  in  melted  butter,  heap  with 
soft  factory  cheese  flakes,  dust  with  paprika,  put  in  oven  to  melt 
cheese,  and  brown  slightly.  —  g.  g.  n. 

SOUFFLE  CRACKERS 

MRS.    NATHANIEL  WALES 

Split  common  cooking  crackers  in  halves  and  soak  in  ice  water 
about  twenty  minutes.  Put  them  on  a  tin  sheet  some  distance 
apart  and  drain  off  as  much  water  as  possible.  Spread  evenly  with 
melted  butter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  delicate 
brown.    To  be  served  with  cheese  or  at  afternoon  tea. 


CANAPE 

MRS.    PAUL  FOLSOM 

Cut  round  thin  slices  of  bread,  spread  with  bloater  paste,  and 
put  a  very  thin  slice  of  Spanish  onion  on  top. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

LOTION  FOR  CHAPPED  HANDS 

MRS.    M.    W.    RICHARDSON 

Yl  pound  of  unground  flaxseed      J/£  pint  of  alcohol 

}/2  pint  of  glycerine 

Put  flaxseed  in  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  water  and  simmer 
all  day.  Strain  out  seeds  and  add  the  other  ingredients  to  the 
liquor.    Bottle. 

CLEANING  FLUID 

MRS.    HENRY   L.    RAND 

Y%  pound  of  Castile  soap  1  ounce  of  sulphuric  ether 

Y2  pound  of  aqua  ammonia  1  ounce  of  glycerine 

Dissolve  soap  in  one  quart  of  soft  water.  Add  four  quarts  more 
of  water  and  then  the  ether,  ammonia,  and  glycerine.  Bottle 
and  shake  before  using. 

This  will  take  out  almost  any  spot.    An  old-fashioned  recipe. 

SOAP 

MRS.    C.    HARRINGTON 

5  pounds  of  grease  1  can  of  Babbitt's  potash 

2  tablespoons  of  borax 

Melt  the  grease,  being  sure  there  is  no  gravy  in  it,  then  let  it 
cool.  Dissolve  the  potash  in  three  pints  of  cold  water;  then  pour 
in  slowly  the  cooled  grease,  add  the  borax,  and  stir  well  for  fifteen 
minutes.    Cut  before  it  sets  hard. 

RECIPE  FOR  PRESERVING  EGGS 

L.    C 

10  pounds  of  unslacked  lime  9  pounds  of  rock  salt 

15  gallons  of  water 

When  dissolved  and  cold  put  in  the  eggs  very  carefully. 

145 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


MEMORANDA 


INDEX 


Apple  Cake,  99 

Charlotte,  52 

Chutney,  129 

and  Cumquat  Salad,  37 

Dowdy,  50 

Dumplings,  51 

Gems,  82 

Ginger,  131 

Pudding  (2),  51,  52 

Pudding,  individual,  52 

Sauce  Cake,  102 

Souffle,  52 
Apples,  Jellied,  69 
Apricot  Bisque,  75 

Sauce,  72 


B 


Banana  Salad,  38 
Bananas,  Baked,  69 

Scalloped,  69 
Bannocks,  83 

Beach  Plum  Marmalade,  130 
Beaten  Biscuit,  83 
Beef,  Chipped,  19 

Jelly,  16 

Loaf  (2),  16,  19 

Roast,  au  Clair,  17 
Deviled,  119 

Spanish,  20 

Spiced,  16 

Steak  en  Casserole,  21 
Beets,  28 
Belgian  Roast,  24 
Blanc  Mange,  66 
Bloater  Canap6,  144 
Bordeaux  Sauce,  133 
Bouillabaisse,  11 
Brains,  18 


Bran  Crackers,  85 

Muffins,  86 
Bread  Batter,  83 

Brown  (2),  79,  80 
Titusville,  79 

Coffee  Cake,  82 

Corn  (2),  78 

Graham,  77 

Milk,  77 

Nut  (2),  80 

Oatmeal,  79 

Shredded  Wheat,  78 

Sweet  Loaf,  78 
Brown  Betties,  112 
Brownies,  105 

Buckwheat  Griddle  Cakes,  89 
Butter  Cakes,  104 

Scotch,  137 


Cafe  Frappe,  74 

Parfait,  76 
Cake,  Method  of  Mixing,  90 
Cake,  Almond,  102 

Angel  (2),  98 

Apple,  99 

Apple  Sauce,  102 

Birthday,  93 

Blueberry  (2),  100,  101 

Chocolate,  94 
Layer,  94 

Dark,  102 

Devil,  99 

Devil's  Food,  105 

Eggless,  92 

Butterless,  Milkless,  90 
Chocolate,  91 

Fruit  (2),  91 

Harrison,  97 

Irish  Pound,  100 


153 


154 


INDEX 


Cake,  Jelly  Roll,  102 

Lace,  100 

Lady  Gladys,  99 

Lemon  Jelly,  101 

Lightning,  92 

Medway  Ginger,  100 

Moist,  101 

Nut,  99 

One  Egg,  92 

Orange,  96 

Raisin,  98 

Short,  Real  Scotch,  98 
Strawberry  (2),  64 

Sour  Milk,  101 

Spice,  96 

French,  97 
Fruit,  97 

Sponge  (5),  95,  96 

Variety,  92 

Warren's,  93 

Wellesley  Fudge,  93 
Cakes,  Butter,  104 

Chocolate,  94 

Cocoanut,  115 

Cup,  103 

Drop,  Brown  Sugar,  110 
Chocolate,  107 
Molasses  (3),  108,  109 
Spice,  109 

Lemon  Cheese,  114 

Oatmeal,  87 

Sponge  Cake  Puffs,  95 
Candy,  Butter  Scotch,  137 

Chocolate  Caramels  (2),  136,  137 
Fudge,  137,  138 

Cocoanut,  138 

Divinity  Fudge,  137 

Marshmallow  Fudge,  138 

Paste,  136 

Peanut  Butter,  138 

Turkish  Delight,  136 
Carrots,  Carameled,  29 
Cauliflower,  Cream  of,  6 
Celery  Salad,  37 

Jelly  Salad,  36 
Chapped  Hands,  Lotion  for,  145 
Charlotte  Russe,  55 


Cheese  Balls,  41 

and  Cracker  Souffle,  44 

Croquettes,  41 

Dish,  43 

Fondue  (2),  43 

Mixed,  41 

Omelet,  116 

Sandwiches,  142,  143 

Savory,  44 

Souffle,  42 

Soup,  6 

Straws,  43 

Swedish,  41 

Toast,  42 
Chicken  en  Casserole,  15 

Croquettes,  14 

a.  la  Gainsborough,  15 

Maryland,  13 

Molded,  16 

and  Pineapple  Glace,  15 

Sandwiches,  142 
Chili  Sauce  (3),  125 
Chocolate  Cake,  94 

Cake  Pudding,  55 

Cakes,  94 

Caramels,  136,  137 

Cookies,  107 

Drop  Wafers,  107 

Fudge,  137-138 

Ice  Cream,  Sauce  for,  72 

Kisses,  107 

Pudding  (2),  49 
Steamed,  50 

Puffs,  107 

Sauce  (2),  61,  71 

Tart,  50 
Chow-Chow,  123 
Christmas  Pudding,  58 
Claret  Punch,  140 
Cleaning  Fluid,  145 
"Clergy's  Delight,"  66 
Cocoanut  Cakes,  115 

Candy,  138 

Cream  Pie,  62 
Cod,  Fillets  of,  10 

Fish,  Salt,  8 

Roe,  9 


INDEX 


155 


Coffee  Cake,  82 

Cookies,  113 

Cream,  64 

Jelly,  67 

Muffins,  82 

Souffle,  54 
Corn  Bread,  78 

Cakes  (2),  84 

Chowder,  2 

Omelet,  47 

Pudding,  30 

Salad,  39 
Cottage  Pie,  21 
Crab,  Mock,  116 
Cranberry  Conserve,  130 

Jelly,  135 

Marmalade,  128 

Pie,  62 
Cranberries,  To  Cook,  134 
Croquettes,  14 
Cucumbers,  Baked,  Stuffed,  30 

Pickled,  124 
Custard  Souffle,  53 
Cookies,  Almond,  111 
Thin,  112 

Brownies,  105 

Chocolate,  107 

Cincinnati,  114 

Coffee,  113 

Cry  Babies,  113 

Fruit,  108 

Hermits,  106 

Jumbles,  105 

Molasses,  111 

Peanut  (3),  109-110 
Butter,  112 

Plain,  108 

Sour  Milk,  113 

Spice,  110 

Sugar,  108 

D 

Date  Macaroons,  112 

Muffins,  81 

Sandwiches  (2),  143 
Doughnuts  (2),  104 


Dumplings,  Apple,  51 
College,  57 

♦ 

E 

Eggs,  Alpine,  45 

Dropped,  47 

au  Gratin,  44 

with  Macaroni,  116 

a  la  Martin,  45 

Mexican,  117 

Poached,  47 

Preserved,  145 

Scrambled,  46 

Swiss,  45 
Egg  Cream,  65 

Cutlets,  46 

Omelets  (3),  45,  47,  116 

Puffs,  46 

Timbales,  46 

Tomatoes,  48 


Fish,  Bouillabaisse,  11 
Cod,  Fillets,  10 

Roe,  9 
Codfish,  Salt,  8 
Croquettes,  14 
Escalloped,  9 
Fillets,  Fried,  10 
Finnan  Haddie  (2),  8 
Hallibut  Fillets,  10 
Lobster,  Creamed,  119 
Morue  Biscayenne,  9 
Oysters,  Creamed,  118 
Fried,  119 
Scalloped,  12 
Vol-au-vent,  12 
Salmon,  Molded,  11 
Shad  Roe,  118 

Forcemeat,  Rice  Case  with,  25 
Rissoles,  25 

Fowl,  Braised,  13 
Deviled,  14 
Jamhalaya,  14 

Fruit  Chartreuse,  75 


156 


INDEX 


Fruit  Cocktail,  135 

Directions  for  Bottling,  122 
Pudding,  58 
Salad  (2),  36,  37 
Dressing,  34 
Frozen,  35 
Fudge,  Chocolate,  137,  138 
Divinity,  137 
Marshmallow,  138 


Gingerbread,  103,  104 

Fairy,  103 
Gingersnaps,  105 
Graham  Bread,  77 

Puffs,  85 
Grape  Conserve,  131 

Jim- Jam,  131 

Juice,  139 

and  Orange  Marmalade,  129 

Sherbet,  75 
Grapes,  Spiced,  129 
Grapefruit,  135 

Marmalade,  128 
Griddle  Cakes,  Buckwheat,  89 

Flour  and  Indian,  88 

Indian,  89 

Rye,  89 

Shrove  Tuesday,  89 

Squash,  88 

H 

Ham,  Baked,  26 

Boneless,  25 

Canapes,  26 

Timbales,  26 
Heavenly  Hash,  129 
Hermits  (4),  106 
Horse  Radish  Sandwiches,  142 

Sauce,  135 


Ice  Cream,  73 

Indian  Griddle  Cakes,  89 

Pudding,  55 
Italian  Cream,  64 


Japanese  Koto,  132 
Japanese  Rice,  29 
Jelly,  Coffee,  67 

Cranberry,  135 

Mint  (2),  133 

Orange,  67 

Quince,  134 

Tomato  (2),  40 

Wine,  66 
Jelly  Roll,  102 
Jumbles,  105 

K 

Kisses,  Chocolate,  107 
Tea,  113 

L 

Lamb  Chops,  Garnished,  22 

Hampton,  23 

Hashed,  with  Walnuts,  24 

Shoulder,  23 
Boned,  23 

Terrapin,  23 
Lemon  Cream,  65 

Custard  Pie,  61 

Pie,  61 
Lenten  Broth,  1 
Liver  Pate  (2),  18,  19 

Rechauffe,  19 
Lobster,  Creamed,  119 

M 

Macaroon  Mousse,  74 
Macaroons,  Date,  112 

H.  O.,  114 
Macedoine,  132 
Maple  Mousse  (2),  73,  74 
Marguerites  (3),  114,  115 
Marmalade,  Beach  Plum,  130 

Cranberry,  128 

Grape  and  Orange,  129 

Grapefruit,  128 

Orange  (2),  127 

Orange  and  Peach,  128 


INDEX 


157 


Marmalade,  Pickled  Lime,  128 
Marmalade  Pudding,  56 
Marlborough  Pudding,  57 

Filling,  60 
Marshmallow  Dessert,  67 

Fudge,  138 

Mousse,  73 

Pudding,  67 
Meat  Souffle,  17 
Meringues,  68 
Milk  Sherbet,  74 
Mince  Meat  (2),  60 
Mint  Jelly  (2),  133 
Mocha  Tart,  63 
Morue  Biscayenne,  9 
Muffins,  Blueberry,  80 

Bran  (3),  86  " 

Coffee,  82 

Date,  81 

English,  87 

Entire  Wheat,  81 

Lunch,  84 

Raised,  80 

Rice,  83 

Rye,  84,  85 

Squash,  86 

Western,  81 
Mulled  Wine,  141 
Mushroom  Soup  (2),  5 
Mushrooms,  Creamed,  117 

a  la  Mieusset,  31 

Stuffed,  30 
Mustard  Pickle  (2),  122,  124 

N 

Xectar  Salad,  36 
Nut  Bread  (2),  80 
Xut  Cake,  99 
Xut  Pudding,  60 

O 

Oatmeal  Bread,  79 
Cakes,  87 
Gems,  86 
Soup,  5 


Omelets,  Cheese,  116 

Corn,  47 

Spanish,  45 
Orange  Cake,  96 

Jelly,  67 

Marmalade,  127 

and  Peach  Marmalade,  128 

Puffs,  63 

Salad,  37 

Sauce,  63 
Oyster  Rabbit,  120 
Oysters,  in  Chafing  Dish,  118 

Creamed,  118 

Fried,  119 

Scalloped,  12 

Vol-au-vent,  12 


Pancakes,  Shrove  Tuesday,  89 
Pastry,  Rich,  59 

Peach  and  Orange  Marmalade,  128 
Pears,  Ginger  (2),  130 

Stewed,  with  Rice,  69 

Sweet  Pickled,  125 
Peppers,  Green,  31 

Stuffed,  31 
Piccalilli,  123 
Pickles,  Cucumber,  124 

Mustard  (2),  122,  124 

Pears,  125 

Tomatoes  (2),  126 

Watermelon  (2),  126,  127 
Pies,  Cherry,  Mock,  59 

Cocoanut  Cream,  62 

Cottage,  21 

Cranberry,  62 

Green  Tomato,  62 

Lemon,  61 

Custard,  61 

Washington,  53 
Pigeons,  Potted,  27 
Pineapple  Cream,  65 

Mousse,  73 

Salad,  36 

Wine,  139 
Plum  Conserve  (2),  131,  133 


158 


INDEX 


Popovers,  88 

Potatoes,  Sweet  (2),  28 

Pots  a  la  Creme,  47 

Preserved  Eggs,  145 

Puddings,  Bread  and  Butter,  57 

Chocolate  (2),  49 
Cake,  55 
Steamed,  50 

Christmas,  58 

Corn,  30 

Fruit,  58 

Imperial,  61 

Indian,  55 

Lemon  Bread,  56 

Marlborough,  57 

Marmalade,  56 

Marshmallow,  67 

Nut,  60 

Plum,  58 

Prune,  56 

Rice  (2),  53,54 
Lemon,  54 

Simple,  56 

Steamed,  Annie's,  57 

Suet  (2),  59 

Trilby,  68 
Puffs,  Egg,  46 

Graham,  85 

Orange,  63 

Raisin,  63 
Punch,  140 

Afternoon  Tea,  140 

Claret,  140 

Pilgrim,  141 


Q 


Quince  Jelly,  134 

R 

Rhubarb  Conserve,  132 
Rice  Case,  25 
Rice,  Japanese,  29 
Muffins,  83 
Pudding,  53,  54 
Waffles,  88 


Rinctum  Diddie,  117 
Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing,  33 
Rolls,  Lunch,  81 
Roman  Gnocchi,  42 
Russian  Dressing,  35 

Sauce,  35 
Rye  Griddle  Cakes,  89 

Muffins,  84,  85 


Salads,  Apple  and  Cumquat,  37 

Banana,  38 

Cabbage,  39 

Celery,  37 
Jelly,  36 

Continental,  38 

Corn,  39 

Franconia,  39 

Fruit,  36,  37 
Frozen,  35 

Nectar,  36 

Orange,  37 

Pineapple,  36 

Shredded  Wheat,  38 

Tomato  and  Chicken,  37 
Salad  Dressing,  Cabbage  (2),  33,  34 

Cold  Slaw,  33 

Copley,  35 

Cream,  32 

Whipped,  34 

Fruit,  34 

Mayonnaise,  32,  34 

Nectar,  36 

Roquefort  Cheese,  33 

Russian,  35 
Sauce,  35 
Sandwiches,  Cheese,  142,  143 

Chicken  and  Celery,  142 

Date  (2),  143 

Horseradish,  142 

Nut  and  Cheese,  142 

Salmon  (2),  142,  143 
Sardines,  Creamed,  117 

Sauce  for,  12 
Sauces,  Apricot,  72 

Bordeaux,  133 


INDEX 


159 


Sauces,  Chili,  125 

Chocolate  (2),  61,  71 
Ice  Cream,  For,  72 

Cream,  71 

Devilled,  12 

Foamy  (2),  53,  54 

Grandmother's,  71 

Hard,  58 

Horseradish,  135 

Mint  Marshmallow,  49 

Orange,  62 

Russian,  35 

Strawberry,  71 

Tomato,  for  Fish,  10 
for  Omelets,  47 
Scones,  87 
Shad  Roe,  118 
Sherbet,  Grape,  75 

Milk,  74 
Short  Cake,  Scotch,  98 

Strawberry  (2),  64 
Shredded  Wheat  Bread,  78 

Salad-,  38 
Soap,  145 

Souffle  Crackers,  144 
Souffle,  Apple,  52 

.    Cheese  and  Cracker,  44 

Coffee,  54 

Custard,  53 

Meat,  17 
Soups,  Baked  Bean,  1 

Beet,  3 

Black  Bean  (2),  3 

Cauliflower,  6 

Cheese,  6 

Clam,  4 

Corn  Chowder,  2 

Lenten  Broth,  1 

Lettuce,  6 

Mushroom  (2),  5 

Oatmeal,  5 

Palestine,  6 

Pea,  3 

Squash,  1 

Tomato  Bisque,  2 

Vegetable  (2),  4 

Velvet,  5 


Soups,  White  (2),  2 

Spaghetti,  28 

Spanish  Omelet,  45 

Spiff,  68 

Squash  Griddle  Cakes,  88 

Muffins,  86 

Soup,  1 
Steak,  Roasted,  20 
Stew,  Baked,  22 
Strawberries,  Preserved,  129 
Strawberry  Sauce,  71 

Short  Cake  (2),  64 

Sponge,  66 
Sweet  Breads,  17 


Tapioca,  Savory,  38 
Tart,  Chocolate,  50 

Mocha,  63 
Tarts,  Sand 
Tea  Kisses,  113 
Tomato  Butter,  134 

and  Chicken  Salad,  37 

Croutes,  29 

Eggs,  48 

Jelly  (2),  40 

Pie,  Green,  62 

Relish,  Cold,  132 

Sauce,  for  Fish,  10 

Sauce  for  Omelets,  47 
Tomatoes  in  Aspic,  39 

with  Cheese,  30 

Curried,  120 

Fried,  31 

Green,  Pickled,  126 

Sweet,  Pickled,  126 
Tongue,  Baked,  21 
Tortoni,  75 
Trilby  Pudding,  68 
Turkish  Delight,  136 
Tutti  Frutti,  72 

V 

Veal  Cutlets,  26 
Fricandeau,  20 


i6o 


INDEX 


Veal,  Melton,  25 

and  Onions,  119 
Vegetables,  Beans,  Baked,  29 

Beets,  28 

Carrots,  Carameled,  29 

Corn  Pudding,  30 
Omelet,  47 

Cucumbers,  Baked,  Stuffed,  30 

Mushrooms,  30,  31 

Peppers  (2),  31 

Potatoes,  Sweet  (2),  28 

Rice,  29 

Spaghetti,  28 

Tomatoes,  29,  31 
Venison,  120 


Venison,  Mock,  120 
Virginia  Sweetmeats,  126 

W 

Waffles,  Cream,  87 
Rice,  88 

Washington  Pie,  53 

Welsh  Rabbit,  43 

White  Dessert,  68 

White  Wine  Cup,  140 

Wine,  Dandelion,  139 
Mulled,  141 
Pineapple,  139 

Wine  Jelly,  66 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


CC 


Choisa"  Ceylon  Tea 


lib. 

Canisters 

60  cents 


PURE 

FRAGRANT 

RICH 


1-2  lb. 

Canisters 

35  cents 


Packed  in 
parchment-lined 
one-pound 
and  half-pound 
canisters 


We  invite  comparisons  with  other  Teas 
of  the  same  or  higher  price 

BOSTON         S.    S.    PIERCE     CO.         BROOKLINE 


M.  T.  WALLACE 

GROCERIES 

and 

PROVISIONS 

Cor.  Centre  and  Myrtle  Sts. 
Jamaica  Plain,  Mass. 


Compliments  of 

MALONE  &  KEANE 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


Decorative  Linens 

Embroidery  Linens 

Housekeeping  Linens 


T.  D.  WHITNEY  &  CO. 

Temple  Place  and  West  Street 
BOSTON,  MASS. 


Mr.  Edison's  thirty-seven 
years  of  effort  is  represented 

in  his 

Diamond 
Disc  Phonograph 


Demonstration  Rooms 
THE  EDISON  SHOP 

F.H.THOMAS  CO. 

691  Boylston  Stieet 
Boston,  Mass. 


Gowns,  Tailored  Costumes,  Coats  and  Waists 


Dancing  Dresses  a  Specialty 


717  BOYLSTON  STREET,  BOSTON 


Telephone,  5818  B.  B. 


Telephone,  Jamaica  645-W 

MRS.  FLORENCE  A.  RICE 

Ladies'  Hairdresser 

Backward  Shampooing,  Facial  and  Scalp 

Treatment,  Manicuring,  Pedicuring,  Chiropody 

Switches,  Puffs  and  Transformations 

from  Combings 

Hair  Goods    Toilet  Preparations 

713  CENTRE  ST.,  JAMAICA  PLAIN 

Between  Burroughs  and  Eliot  Streets 


Compliments 

of 
A  FRIEND 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


Telephone,  Jamaica  428-W 

F.  COOPER 

Manufacturer  of 

Window  and  Door  Screens 

WINDOW  SHADES 
18  Bartlett  Square               -DncTWivr 

Jamaica  Plain  Station                   rSUOHJlN 

Langdon's  Art  Store 
Post  Cards 

Developing,  Printing  and   Enlarging,    Picture 

Framing  and  Tinting.    Special  Attention 

given  to  Amateur  Work 

751  Centre  Street     JAMAICA  PLAIN 

Thomas  Mayo  &  Co. 

HARDWARE,  CUTLERY 

Ranges,  Furnaces,  Plumbing,  Painters' 
Supplies,  etc. 

149  Green  Street 
JAMAICA  PLAIN,  MASS. 

Charles  F.  Smith 

Painting  and  Decorating 

2  Myrtle  St.,  Jamaica  Plain 

Telephone 

Sanning's  Pharmacy 

the  Rexall  STORE 
109  Green  Street    JAMAICA  PLAIN 

B.  F.  Godfrey  &  Co. 

PLUMBERS  and  GASFITTERS 

Metal  Conductors  and  Gutters 

769  Centre  Street,  opp.  Greenough  Ave. 

Telephone 

Connection     JAMAICA  PLAIN,  MASS. 

McFARLAND  &  COE 

Dealers  in 

Fish  and  Oysters 

113  Green  Street      JAMAICA  PLAIN 

G.  F.  Stodder 

Wholesale  and  Retail 
Dealer  in 

Jamaica  Floral  Co. 

Jf  resty  Cut  Jf  lotoer* 

Floral  Designs  and  Decorations 

707  Centre  Street 
JAMAICA   PLAIN 

Tels.  Jamaica  398-W;  Res.  1945-W 

Ocean,  Lake  and 
River 

FISH 

Pining  with  pain  and  pensive  with  fear, 
Suing  for  kind  hands,  most  gentle  and  dear, 
Come  where  you  '11  find  them,  by  night  and  by  day, 
And  bring  back  to  health,  then  send  thee  away. 

Compliments  of 

JOHN  T.  GRUNDY 

TAILOR 

174  Friend  Street 
BOSTON 

THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


CYRUS  BREWER  &  CO. 


EVERY  KNOWN  KIND   OF 


INSURANCE 


44  KILBY  STREET 

(Entire  Building) 


ALFRED  M.  BULLARD 
ARTHUR  K.  POPE 


ARTHUR  B.  GILMORE 
WILLIAM  T.  ULMAN 


Jfe 

"  Connoisseurs  " 

Compliments  of 

T.  W.  NORMAN  CO. 

E.  C.  BURKE 

Pictures  &  Frames 

Printing  &  Developing 

Greeting  Cards 

55  Bromfield  Street 

BOSTON,   MASS. 

THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


TWAOC   jM^HK. 


Hood's  Milk  Wins 


—  But  the  awards  mean  as  much  to  you  as  they  do  to  us.  In  the  Milk  and  Cream 
Exhibits  held  throughout  New  England,  under  the  supervision  of  Agricultural  Col- 
leges and  State  Dairymen's  Associations,  H.  P.  HOOD  &  SONS  are  repeatedly 
awarded  the  HIGHEST  SCORE.  Keen  competition  with  other  New  England  brands 
of  milk  is  the  rule,  but  HOOD'S  WINS  OUT.  HOOD'S  MILK  is  always  the  same. 
The  same  verdict.  The  same  award.  Can  you  afford  to  use  milk,  or  to  recommend 
milk,  that  is,  by  actual  test,  less  perfect  than  HOOD'S  ? 

H.  P.  HOOD  &  SONS,  Dairy  Experts 

Order  of  our  salesmen,  write  or  telephone 


THE  BABY 

A  Book  for  Mothers  and 
Nurses 

By 

DANIEL  ROLLINS  BROWN,  M.D. 

Cloth,  pp.  200.    $1.00  net 


"An  excellent  book  of  practical  in- 
struction." —  Springfield  Republican. 

"In  reading  one  constantly  loses  sight 
of  the  fact  of  being  under  the  doctor's 
orders,  although  the  conviction  grows 
stronger  that  the  writer  knows  all  that 
is  to  be  known  about  babies.  —  American 
Journal  of  Nursing. 


WHITCOMB  &  BARROWS 

Publishers 

Huntington  Chambers 

BOSTON,  MASSACHUSETTS 


CATS  PAV 

CUSHION 

RUBBER  HEELS 

are  the  heels  for  you,  because 
they  make  walking  safe  as 
well  as  comfortable. 

"Worn  regularly bythousands 
whohave  tried  other  kindsfirst. 
50c.  attached.    All  dealers. 

Foster  Rubber  Co.,  Boston,  Mass. 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


MACDUFF 

Linen  Specialty  Co. 

453  Washington  St.,  Boston,  Mass. 

Telephone,  Oxford  6293 

Boston's  Newest  Specialty 
Shop 

\\  7E  are  direct  agents  for 
▼  V  leading  Scotch  and  Irish 
manufacturers  of  household  lin- 
ens, also  distributers  of  blankets, 
spreads,  sheets,  and  pillow  cases 
direct  from  the  mills.    Retailed 
at  wholesale  prices. 

We  solicit  a  share  of  your  patronage 

Compliments  of 

The 

State  Street 

Trust  Co. 

Telephone,  Jamaica  1079-M 

Whiting  &  McLean 

CARPENTERS  and  BUILDERS 

Jobbing  and  Remodeling 
Asbestos  Shingles  Applied 
Plans  and  Estimates  Given 

653  Centre  St.,  Jamaica  Plain,  Mass. 

J.  ESSELEN 

Successor  to 

MRS.  J.  C.  WHITE 

Artists'    Materials,    School    Supplies, 
Kindergarten  Goods,  Children's  Nov- 
elties, Souvenir  Post  Cards  and  Albums 
Greeting  Cards  for  all  occasions. 

Telephone,  Jamaica  1939-W           Residence,  1366-M 

George  S.Jacobs 

Real  Estate,  Mortgages 
Insurance 

650  Centre  St.,  Jamaica  Plain,  Mass. 

Corner  Green  Street 

19  Bromfield  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 

Charles  E.  Moody  &  Co. 

WHOLESALE  GROCERS 

Telephone,  Jf8j  Jamaica 

Edward  McCarthy 

Trunk  &  Bag  Repairing 

644  Centre  St.,  Jamaica  Plain,  Mass. 

Matchless  Brand 
FOOD  PRODUCTS 

229-231  State  St.             Boston,  Mass. 

THE    FAULKNER    COOK   BOOK 

Tel.  Richmond  540 

Weston  -  Thurston 
Company 

DEALERS  IN 

ESTABLISHED  1834 

E.  &  F.  King  &  Co. 

INCORPORATED 

Importers  of  and  Dealers  in 

Drugs  and  Chemicals 

Bleaching  Powders         Saltpetre 
Sal  Soda                          Soda  Ash 

Beef,  Lamb,  Mutton 
Veal,  Pork,  Poultry 
Butter,  Cheese,  Eggs 

STALLS  20-22-24 

New  Faneuil  Hall  Market 

BOSTON,  MASS. 


Compliments 

of 

A  Friend 


Sal  Glauber 
Sulphur 
Sal  Epsom 
Caustic  Soda 
Crystal  Carbonate 

Soda 
Borax 
Copperas 


Bichromate  Potash 

Alum 

Dextrine 

Flaxseed 

58%  Alkali 

Blue  Vitriol 

Brimstone 

Bicarb.  Soda,  Etc. 


367-369  Atlantic  Avenue 

BOSTON 


Hoarseness,  Coughs 

inflammation  of  the  throat,  bronchial  and 
asthmatic  troubles  are  relieved  promptly 
by  the  use  of 

BROWN'S 
Bronchial  Troches 

Safe  to  use  whenever  required  to  check  a 
cough  and  clear  the  voice  in  singing  or 
speaking.  Entirely  free  from  opiates  in 
any  form. 

Sold  everywhere  in  boxes  —  never  in  bulk 

Prices,  25c,  50c,  and  $1.00 

Sample  sent  on  request 

JOHN  I.  BROWN  &  SON,  BOSTON 

TD-D/^-XTT-lvpC    SAPONACEOUS 
JD  1S.KJ  WIN    O    CAMPHORATED 

DENTIFRICE 

Keeps  the  teeth  and  gums  in  healthy  con- 
dition. Leaves  a  particularly  clean  and 
pleasant  feeling  in  the  mouth. 

Price,  25  cents.   Sample  sent  on  request 

Manf  d  by  John  I.  Brown  &  Son,  Boston 

Curtis  &  Brown  Mfg.  Co.,  Ltd.,  New  York 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 

JOHN  A. 

WHITTEMORE'S 

SONS 

Gerry 

Coal 

&  Northrup  Co. 

and 

Wood 

BUILDERS 

TELEPHONES 

458  Harrison  Avenue 

Jamaica  Plain      .     .     .     273  Jamaica 
WestRoxbury      ...     170  Bellevue 

Eventually 

GOLD  MEDAL 

CALL  US  UP 

The  next  time  you  have  a  Printing  order 
and  we'll  do  the  work  so  promptly  and 
reasonably  that  you  won't  have  to  call 
us  down 

Book,  Catalogue,  Law 
and 

FLOUR 


,  Why  Not  Now  ? 


Commercial  Printing 

in  fact  anything  that  you  may  need  in  the 
printing  line  can  be  secured  at  reasonable 
prices  at  the 

Jamaica  Printing  Co. 

66-68  Seaverns  Avenue,  Jamaica  Plain 

Telephones,  Jamaica  1300, 1301 
LINOTYPE    COMPOSITION    FOR    THE    TRADE 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


$weeper~)/a& 


INSIST  ON  THE  NAME  IN  GOLD  ON  THE  TOP 

The  original  and  positively  the  only  3  in  1 

COMBINATION  BRUSH  AND 
VACUUM  CARPET  SWEEPER 

$6.50  $8.50  $10.50 

Combining  a  complete  brush  carpet-sweeper 
and  a  complete  vacuum  carpet-sweeper. 
Either  member  used  separately  or  in  com 
bination.    Over  300,000  Sweeper-  Vacs  in  use. 

Officially  chosen  for  the  Model  Kitchen 
World's  Panama-Pacific  Exposition 
San  Francisco,  1915 

PNEUVAC   COMPANY 

59  Temple  Place 
BOSTON,  MASS. 


This  3  in  I. Combination  Sweeper-Vac:  Modef'S'j 


Telephone  4985  Fort  Hill 


M.  S.  Kirshen 


THE  ALPINE  PRESS 

BOOK  AND  COMMERCIAL 

Printers 

"  The  So  Different  Kind  " 

32  Oliver  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


Patronize  a  High-Class  Laundry 

Our  Work  is  the  Best  in  the  City 

Flat  work  30  cents  per  doz.  One-half 
doz.  15  cents;  over  one-half  doz.  25  cents. 
Rough  dry  pieces  3  cents  each.  Plain 
shirts  12  cents,  collars  2  cents  each.  No 
package  received  less  than  10  cents. 

The  Booker  Custom  Laundry 

INC. 

31  Corey  Street,  West  Roxbury 

Telephone,  474  Bellevue 


We  Use 


STAPLES 
FLOOR  WAX 


FAULKNER  HOSPITAL 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


Wfuttemom 

It  Shoe  Polishes 


Fl N EST  QUALITY 


LARGEST  VARIETY 


U  EDC# 

DRESSINC 

l>sch>*ms 
BLACKSHQE5 


SOFTENS 

PRESERVES 

LEATHER 

""RESTORES.'" 
COLOR 

LUSTRE 


"GILT  EDGE,"  the  only  ladies'  shoe  dressing-  that 
positively  contains  Oil.  Blacks,  Polishes  and  Pre- 
serves ladies'  and  children's  shoes,  shines  without 
rubbing,  25c.    "FRENCH  GLOSS,"  10c. 

"STAR"  combination  for  cleaning  and  polishing  all 
kinds  of  russet  or  tan  shoes,  10c.  "DANDY"  size,  25c. 

"OIL  PASTE"  Blacks,  Polishes  and  Preserves.  I,arge 
tin  boxes  with  easy  cover  remover  attached. 

Also  Russet  'Oil  Paste"  same  size  box,  each  10c. 

"BABY  ELITE"  combination  for  grentlemen  who 
take  pride  in  having-  their  shoes  look  Al.  Restores 
color  and  lustre  to  all  black  shoes.  Polish  with  a 
brush  or  cloth,  10  cents.    "ELITE"  size,  25  cents. 

If  your  dealer  does  not  keep  the  kind  you  want,  send  us 
the  price  in  stamps  for  full  size  package,  charg-es  paid. 

WHITTEMORE  BROS.  &  CO., 

20-26  Albany  Street,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

The  Oldest  and  Largest  Manufacturers  of 

Shoe  Polishes  in  the.  World. 


THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


Crockery 
£hina  and  Glass 


Newest  shapes  and  decorations  of  China  Table 
Ware  and  ornamental  Pieces  from  the  best  Potter- 
ies and  Glass  Factories  of  England,  France,  Ger- 
many, Japan,  and  America. 

Extensive  exhibits  in  the 

DINNER  SET  DEPARTMENT 
ART  POTTERY  ROOMS 

GLASSWARE  DEPARTMENT 
LAMP  DEPARTMENT 

STOCK  PATTERN  DEPARTMENT 
KITCHEN  DEPARTMENT 
HOTEL  AND  CLUB  DEPARTMENT 

Inbiief,  ten  floors  of  China,  Glass  and  Lamps,  from 
the  low  cost  to  the  most  expensive  specimens,  in- 
cluding the  newest  and  best  things  on  sale  in  the  best 
China  Shops  in  London,  Paris,  Berlin  and  Vienna. 


Jones,  McDuffee  &  Stratton  Co. 

China  and  Glass  Merchants 

(Ten  Floors)  Wholesale  and  Retail 

33  FRANKLIN  STREET,  BOSTON 

Near  Washington  and  Summer  Sts. 


Compliments  of 
WEBSTER  &  ATLAS  NATIONAL 

OF  BOSTON 

SEARS  BUILDING 


PUREOXIA 

THE  MUTUAL 
NATIONAL  BANK 

40  State  Street 

GINGER  ALE 

MADE  WITH  DISTILLED  WATER 

BOSTON,  MASS. 

Compliments  of 
E.  W.  CLARK  CO. 

THE  SQUARE  STORE  ON  A 
ROUND  CORNER 

THE    FAULKNER    COOK    BOOK 


Frederick  Bullock 

J.  W.  PATTERSON  &  t 

HOUSE  PAINTER  AND 

Groceries  and  Provisions 

INTERIOR  DECORATOR 

Choice  Family  Wines  and  Liquors 

718  Centre  Street 

134-136  South  Street,  cor.  Bovnton 

JAMAICA  PLAIN,  MASS. 

JAMAICA  PLAIN 

Compliments  of 

JWnutllt&^ucr 

Compliments  of 

0       3fetoelers 

WALDO  J.  STOKES 

24  Winter  Street 

• 

N.  T.  CROWELL 

Bureau   of   Social  Wants 

House  Painting 

Dealer  in  Wall  Papers  and  Painters' 
Supplies 

Where  every  Practical  Social  Want 

of  Modern  Household  may 

be  supplied 

107  Park  Street 
WEST  ROXBURY,  MASS. 

59  TEMPLE  PLACE              BOSTON 

Telephone,  492-W.  Bel. 

Room  702.    Telephone  Connection 

Neighborhood  Kitchen 

and  Exchange 

Homemade  Preserves         Order  Cooking 
Handicraft  Articles 

MRS.  A.  R.  JOHNSTON 

GEORGE  W.  KENYON 

INSURANCE 

88  Seaverns  Avenue             JAMAICA  PLAIN 

Telephone,  Jamaica  2031-W 

O.  S.WELSH 

Upholstering 

Furniture  Repairing  and  Refinishing 
Dining  Tables  Finished  in  Oil 

P.  F.  DRESSER 

Newsdealer 

1926  Centre  Street 

731  CENTRE  STREET 

WEST  ROXBURY,   MASS. 

Telephone  Connection 

JAMAICA  PLAIN 

CRANBERRY  JEWEL  SALAD 

A  gem  for  the  turkey  dinner 

1  package  raspberry 
flavored  gelatine 

V/2  cups  boiling  water 

1  can  Ocean  Spray 
Cranberry  Sauce  (Jel- 
lied or  Whole) 

1   orange 

Dissolve  raspberry 
gelatine  in  boiling  wa- 
ter. Chill  until  mixture 
begins  to  thicken.  If 
jellied  cranberry  sauce 
is  used,  crush  with  a  fork.  Quarter  orange,  remove  seeds,  put 
rind  and  pulp  through  food  chopper.  Fold  cranberry  sauce  and 
orange  into  raspberry  jello.    Chill  until  firm.    Serves  6. 

CRANBERRY  APPLE  SALADS 

1  envelope    unflavored    gelatine  V*  lemon 
V4  cup  cold  water  1    apple 

1    pound   can    Ocean    Spray   Jellied    Cranberry    Sauce 

Place   gelatine   in    custard   cup.     Add   cold   water.     Let   stand 

2  minutes.  Place  custard  cup  in  pan  of  boiling  water  until 
gelatine  dissolves.  Crush  canned  jellied  cranberry  sauce  with 
fork  and  add  dissolved  gelatine.  Chill.  Coarsely  grind  lemon, 
apple  in  food  grinder.  When  gelatine  mixture  begins  to  jell, 
stir  in  lemon,  apple.  Turn  into  rectangular  pan  and  chill  until 
firm.    Cut  in  squares  and  serve  in  lettuce  cups  with  mayonnaise. 

Page  Five 


CRANBERRY  TURKEYS  .  .  . 

Will  Steal  the  Limelight  on  Your  Table! 

You'll  have  compliments  galore  if  you  serve  cranberry  sauce 
cut  in  the  shape  of  plump  little  turkeys!  They're  easy  to  make. 
Just    cut    Ocean    Spray 

Jellied      Cranberry      ^KBj%&!~*~  .■  ~  ~  *>f"",*--_ 

Sauce  into  half- inch 
slices,  then  using  a  tur- 
key-shaped cutter,  cut 
one  turkey  from  each 
slice.  Serve  on  a  festive 
platter  alongside  the 
turkey  platter  ...  OR 
mount  cranberry  tur- 
keys on  apple  or 
orange  slices. 


For  your  convenience,  the  Ocean  Spray 
people  have  made  a  bright  red  plastic 
turkey  cutter  just  the  right  size  to  cut 
one  turkey  from  each  slice  of  cranberry 
sauce.  It  may  be  had  for  1  Ocean  Spray 
Cranberry  Sauce  label  and  104  sent  to 
i(Ocean  Spray",  Hanson,  Mass. 


Ocean  Spray  Cranberry  Sauce  is 
packed  by  the  cranberry  growers 
of  Massachusetts,  New  Jersey,  Wis- 
consin, Washington,  and  Oregon 
and  comes  two  ways: 

Jellied  Cranberry  Sauce  to  cut  in 
plump  slices  or  fancy  shapes  .  .  . 
Whole  Cranberry  Sauce  with  plump 
berries  in  sweetened   syrup. 

Carries  Good  Housekeeping  and 
Parents'  Magazines  seals  of  ap- 
proval. 


§cean(if^^B^ 


&tht»ritrJr*f 


JNkbryu 


HOW  TO  ROAST  TURKEY  AND 
WHAT  TO  SERVE  WITH  IT! 

(To  prepare  turkey  for  the  oven  see  center  pages) 


ROASTING  TABLE 

Total 

Ready-to-cook 

Oven            Cooking  time 

Cooking  time 

Weight 

Temperature     Minutes  per  lb. 

Hours 

8  to  10 

325°  F.             20  to  25 

3  to  zy2 

10  to  14 

325°  F.              18  to  20 

Z]/2  to  4 

14  to  18 

300°  F.             15  to  18 

4  to  4J4 

18  to  20 

300°  F.             13  to  15 

AV2  to  5 

TO  ROAST: 

Place  breast-side  down  on  rack  in  shallow  pan.  Cover  top 
and  sides  with  fat-moistened  cloth  or  aluminum  foil. 

Do  not  sear.    Do  not  cover.    Do  not  add  water. 

Place  in  pre-heated  oven  set  at  proper  temperature  and  bake 
according  to  time  chart. 

When  the  turkey  is  done,  the  fleshy  part  of  the  drumstick 
will  feel  soft  when  pressed  with  the  fingers  (use  paper  or 
cloth  when  touching  the  hot  turkey).  Then  try  moving  the  drum- 
stick up  and  down.  When  the  leg  joint  moves  readily,  the 
turkey  is  done. 

TO  SERVE: 

Serve  with  Cranberry  Sauce,  Cranberry  Relish,  or  Cranberry 
Salad  (see  pages  4,  5,  and  6). 


Page  She 


1.  Rub  cavity  with  salt. 
Fill  neck  with  stuff- 
ing to  give  a  well- 
rounded  appear- 
ance. 


2.  Fasten     neck     skin 
back  with  skewer.  L 


IT'S  EASY  TO  TRUSS  AND  ROAST 
A  TURKEY 

To  truss  a  turkey  means  to  bind  legs  and  wings 
to  the  body  for  roasting.  The  turkey  cooks  unu 
formly.  It  browns  more  evenly  and  carving  is 
simplified. 

To  stuff  and  truss:  Follow  directions  given  with  each 
illustration. 


3.  Lift  wing  up  and 
out  forcing  tip  back 

A  to  rest  against  neck 
skin. 


6.  Turkey,  breast  down, 
to  roast.  m 


Stuff  cavity  well,  but 
do  no  pack.  (Allow 
1  to  XVt  cups  dress- 
ing per  pound  of 
turkey).  Lace  open- 
ing to  hold  stuffing. 


5.  Tie     legs     together 
A  and  fasten  to  tail. 


Page  Two 


Page  Three 


WHAT   TO    SERVE    WITH   TURKEY 

Cranberry  sauce,  of  coursel  Turkey  and  cranberry  sauce  have 
been  partners  since  the  days  of  the  Pilgrims.  Easiest  way  to 
serve  cranberry  sauce  with  turkey  is  to  open  a  can  of  Ocean 
Spray,  but  for  variety,  try  these  delicious  relishes  and  salads. 


CRANBERRY-ORANGE  RELISH 

A  Favorite  Relish  with  Turkey 
1   orange 
1   can  Ocean  Spray  Cranberry  Sauce  (Jellied  or  Whole) 

Put  orange  through  food  chopper,  rind  and  all.  If  jellied 
cranberry  sauce  is  used,  crush  with  a  fork.  Stir  in  chopped 
orange.  Chill  in  re- 
frigerator several 
hours  to  permit  fla- 
vors to  blend.  Makes 
approximately  2  cups 
relish. 


CRANBERRY-APPLE-LEMON  RELISH 

Crisp,  tangyf  and  delicious 
1   large  apple 
%  lemon 
1   can  Ocean  Spray  Cranberry  Sauce  (Jellied  or  Whole) 

Put  apple  and  lemon  (including  rind  and  pulp)  through  food 
chopper.  If  jellied  cranberry  sauce  is  used,  crush  with  a  fork. 
Stir  in  chopped  apple  and  lemon.    Chill  in  refrigerator  several 

hours  to  permit  flavors  to  blend. 

Page  Four 


