Historic,  archived  document 

Do  not  assume  content  reflects  current 
scientific  knowledge,  policies,  or  practices. 


By  Southern  RuraJ/sf  Readers 


COLLECTED  BY 


LIBRARY 

OF  THE 

UNITED  STATES 
DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

c&«~..3.<3  9.2,5 

Booh  5c? 


8—1577 


SOUPS 


THIN  WHITE  SAUCE 
Two  cups  of  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
butter.  Scald  milk,  melt  the  butter,  stir  the  flour  in  the  melted  butter ; 
do  not  cook.  Gradually  add  part  of  hot  milk,  stirring  well ;  add  remain- 
der of  milk,  cook  over  hot  water.  This  sauce  may  be  used  as  the  foun- 
dation of  soups. — Mrs.  A.  Johnson,  Lyons,  Texas. 

MUTTON  BROTH 
Put  two  pounds  of  mutton  and  two  quarts  of  cold  water  to  boil,  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  rice,  washed  carefully  through  several  waters.  Let 
it  boil  till  the  meat  will  leave  the  bone  and  the  rice  is  cooked  to  a  liquid 
mass.  Take  from  the  fire,  season  with  a  little  salt,  and  skim  if  preferred. 
If  for  a  patient,  leave  on  all  the  fat  (the  more  fat,  the  better). — Jewel 
Taylor,  Winnsboro,  Louisiana. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 
After  boiling  a  soup  bone  or  a  piece  of  beef  until  done,  add  to  the 
broth  boiling  water  to  make  the  amount  of  soup  wanted,  and  when  boil- 
ing again,  add  a  large  handful  of  cabbage  cut  fine  as  for  slaw,  a  half 
pint  of  tomatoes  and  three  good-sized  onions,  cut  fine,  and  three  Irish 
potatoes  sliced  very  thin,  and  a  half  pint  of  corn.  Let  boil  about  a  half 
hour.  If  the  soup  is  liked  a  little  thick,  beat  one  egg  with  two  table- 
spoonsful of  sweet  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  put  in  five  or  ten 
minutes  before  taking  off.  This  makes  it  very  rich.  Serve  with  crack- 
ers. Try  this  straight,  then  sweeten  to  taste.  Also  add  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  butter. — Miss  Rosa  Fekrell,  Durham,  N.  G. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 
One  quart  of  okra  after  cut,  several  large  tomatoes,  two  carrots,  one 
ear  of  corn,  one  onion,  all  cut  in  small  pieces  and  allowed  to  steam  in 
vessel  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  sufficient  hot  water  to  cook  thoroughly.  Season  to  suit  taste 
and  serve  with  toasted  bread. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Burch,  Port  Gibson,  Miss. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 
Wash,  peel  and  slice  six  medium-sized  rutabaga  turnips,  place  in  a 
boiler,  add  a  small  piece  of  lean  pork,  and  boil  until  both  turnips  and 
pork  are  tender.  Remove  from  boiler  and  mash  turnips  fine,  and  place 
on  a  dish  for  dinner ;  cut  the  pork  in  small  pieces  and  put  back  in  turnip 
stock,  add  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  cooked  rice,  one  large  onion, 
chopped  fine.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Warmack, 
Alachua,  Fla. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 
Take  eight  potatoes  (Irish),  peel  and  slice  very  thin  two  small  tur- 
nips, one  onion,  one  large  or  two  medium-sized  tomatoes  (five-cent  can 
will  do,  if  no  fresh  ones  are  at  band),  one-third  cupful  of  good  rice,  one 
•mall  can  of  peas — frssh  ones  if  you  have  them  (one  small  cupful)  :  put 


2 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


til  these  in  about  one  quart  of  good  beef  broth  made  by  boiling  a  soup 
bone  or  soup  meat,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste,  set  on  back  part  of 
stove  to  simmer,  stir  often  so  it  will  not  scorch ;  serve  with  crackers  or 
bread  sticks,  made  by  frying  bread  cut  in  strips  brown.  This  is  a  deli- 
cious soup,  easily  prepared  and  not  at  all  expensive. — E.  H.,  Slidell,  La. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Take  one-half  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes  (or  more,  according  to  the 
quantity  of  soup  needed),  place  them  carefully  in  a  pan  or  bucket,  have 
ready  a  kettle  of  scalding  water,  pour  over  and  let  stand  ten  minutes. 
By  this  process  they  are  much  easier  peeled.  Slice  very  thin.  Have 
your  pot  or  vessel  of  any  kind  on  stove  with  about  two  or  three  pints  of 
water,  and  three  or  four  slices  of  fat  meat  in  the  water.  Let  come  to  a 
boil,  put  the  tomatoes  in,  let  cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  season  with 
salt  after  it  has  cooked,  as  the  salt  prevents  the  scum  from  rising ;  also 
a  little  black  pepper.  Take  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  thicken  with 
flour,  stir  this  constantly  into  the  soup  until  cooked;  add  one-fourth 
pound  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Serve  hot  in  deep  soup 
bowls  with  crackers. — Mrs.  F.  M.  McGuckin,  Sharon,  S.  C. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
One  can  tomatoes,  one  can  corned  beef,  one  teacupful  of  cold  rice, 
one  common-sized  Irish  potato,  one  common-sized  onion ;  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  First  put  one  pint  of  water  in  kettle,  then  tomatoes,  beef 
and  onion.  Let  your  potato  and  rice  be  previously  cooked,  and  stir  all ; 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve  hot.  This  soup  can  be  made  of  fresh  beef 
instead  of  canned  beef. — Mes.  Boyd  Bryan,  Harlem,  Fla. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
To  one  quart  of  canned  tomatoes  add  an  equal  part  of  water ;  let  this 
come  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  pinch  of  soda,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  season  with  butter  or  meat  gravy  and  thicken  by 
putting  a  little  flour  in  a  cup  and  mixing  well  with  water,  adding  a  little 
at  a  time  till  smooth,  then  fill  the  cup  with  sweet  milk  and  stir  into  the 
soup. — Mrs.  F.  G.  Vaughn,  Falls  City,  Ala. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Take  a  slice  of  ham  and  add  a  quart  and  a  half  of  water.  Let  boil 
about  thirty  minutes,  then  add  about  one-third  package  of  macaroni  and 
five  to  six  fresh  tomatoes,  or  one  pint  of  canned  tomatoes.  Season  with 
sweet  or  evaporated  cream  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  in 
soup  plates  while  hot. — Emma  L.  Hollow  ay,  Plant  City,  Fla. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
To  one-half  gallon  of  cold  water  add  a  small  piece  of  meat  chopped 
fine,  preferably  ham  or  beef,  and  let  cook  slowly  thirty  minutes,  adding 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  also  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  pint  of 
tomatoes,  canned,  or  three  or  four  medium-sized  ones,  peeled,  if  in  to- 
mato season.  Thicken  soup  slightly  by  mixing  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
or  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water,  adding  slowly  to  the  boiling  soup. 
Serve  hot  with  crackers. — Louise  E.  Jones,  Pocahontas,  Tenn. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Place  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  over  fire  and  cook  to  pieces,  then 
rub  through  colander,  using  wooden  potato  masher.  Return  to  fire,  add 
soda  the  size  of  a  pea,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  generous  lump  of  butter 
and  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  milk.  Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  a 
thin  paste  with  cold  water  and  add  to  the  other  ingredients.    Let  boil 


SOUPS 


3 


Up,  and  serve  with  small  squares  or  fingers  of  toasted  bread. — Mrs. 
E.  B.  Holland,  Pecan,  Miss. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Put  one  pint  of  canned  tomatoes  into  an  enameled  kettle,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Cook  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  in  about  one- 
sixth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  add  one  pint  of  good  sweet  milk  and  let 
it  come  to  the  boiling  point  slowly,  but  not  boil.  Serve  hot  with  crackers 
or  light  bread. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Stratton,  Bagwell,  Texas. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Put  one  small  piece  of  joint  meat  in  pot  with  water;  in  this  slice 
a  small  onion  fine,  add  one  can  of  tomatoes.  Boil  until  meat  is  done. 
Slice  two  biscuits  and  brown  in  oven,  beat  four  eggs  to  froth ;  add  the 
b.scuit  crumbs  and  eggs  to  the  soup  and  remove  from  stove.  Serve  hot. 
Mrs.  F.  T.  Hudson,  Dexter,  Ga. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Stew  and  run  through  a  sieve  enough  tomatoes  to  make  one  quart, 
set  back  on  stove  and  put  into  the  pulp  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
then  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  (always  put  in  the  soda  before  the 
milk)  ;  also  add  two  or  three  slices  of  onions  and  leave  in  the  stew  just 
long  enough  for  the  onion  flavor  to  taste,  then  take  out ;  also  add  celery 
in  some  form,  enough  to  flavor,  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Serve 
with  oyster  crackers. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Ceerze,  Knoxville,  Tenn. 

TOMATO  SOUP 
Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk  scalded  to  boiling  point  in  double  boiler, 
salt  to  taste,  and  add  a  little  black  pepper.  Heat  one  can  of  tomatoes 
and  use  a  light  spoonful  of  soda,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and 
milk  and  tomatoes  mixed  just  before  serving.  This  keeps  milk  from 
curdling.   Serve  with  crackers. — Mrs.  C.  O.  Kagg,  Perry,  Ga. 

SALMON  SOUP 
One  can  of  salmon,  mashed,  to  one  or  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  salt, 
pepper  and  butter  to  suit  taste.    Let  it  come  to  a  boil.    Serve  hot  with 
good  oyster  crackers.   Water  can  be  added  if  desired. — Amy  E.  Spare, 
Cantonment,  Florida. 

POTATO  SOUP 
Two  tablespoonsful  of  cottolene,  or  any  good  grease,  in  a  fryer.  Peel 
and  slice  five  or  six  large  Irish  potatoes,  drop  in  hot  cottolene,  brown  on 
both  sides ;  sprinkle  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  poured  over  this.  You  may  add  a  small  piece 
of  butter.   Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Mallot,  Smith's  Station,  Ala. 

POTATO  SOUP 
Take  one-half  teacupful  of  salt  pork,  cut  in  cubes ;  two  pints  of  Irish 
potatoes,  cut  in  cubes  ;  one  small  onion,  chopped  fine  ;  three  pints  of  boil- 
ing water;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    This  makes  a  cheap,  nourishing 
dish. — Mrs.  Emma  Pettit,  Traskioood,  Ark. 

RABBIT  SOUP 
Unjoint  a  fat  rabbit  and  put  to  cook  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water ; 
when  it  begins  to  boil,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  set  on  back  of  the  stove, 
where  it  will  cook  slowly  till  the  mert  is  very  tender.  Take  out  the  meat 
and  add  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Serve 
with  squares  of  toasted  bread  or  crackers.  Roll  the  meat  in  flour  and 
fry  a  light  brown  in  butter.   Take  up  the  meat  and  add  a  small  spoonful 


4 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  flour  to  the  butter  in  frying  pan ;  when  browned,  add  a  little  of  the 
soup,  let  boil  up  and  pour  over  meat — Mrs.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

PORK  BONE  SOUP 
Put  soup  bone  in  a  gallon  of  water,  boil  perfectly  tender  until  meat 
falls  off  the  bone.  Leave  half  gallon  of  water  in  boiler  with  meat,  then 
take  one  pint  of  cold  water,  one  teacupful  of  flour,  and  mix  well  in  a 
vessel.  Put  this  in  with  meat  and  boil  well  together.  Add  black  pepper 
and  onion  if  desired. — Martha  L.  McCracken,  Ralph,  Ala. 

JUMBO  SOUP 

Wash  one  cupful  of  navy  beans  and  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  when  just  at  the  boiling  point  drain  in 
a  colander.  Pour  cold  water  over  them ;  drain.  Put  beans  in  soup 
kettle  and  nearly  fill  with  cold  water.  Add  a  slice  of  salt  pork  or  bacon ; 
add  turnip,  cabbage,  onion,  potato,  all  cut  up  fine.  Boil  slowly  several 
hours ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt.  A  handful  of  barley 
is  a  nice  addition ;  also  tomatoes.  If  tomatoes  are  used,  heat  them  and 
add  a  bit  of  soda  to  them,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  before  adding  to  the 
soup.  On  a  busy  day  this  makes  almost  a  meal  of  itself. — Mbs.  Frank 
Borland,  Anona,  Fla. 

MACARONI  SOUP 
Cut  two  pounds  of  soup  beef,  or  one  chicken,  and  simmer  until  almost 
done,  in  enough  water  to  have  about  one  gallon  when  done.   An  hour  be- 
fore time  to  serve  add  one-half  package  of  macaroni,  in  small  pieces,  one- 
half  teacupful  of  rice ;  season. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Urmey,  South  Hill,  Va. 

NOODLE  SOUP 
Boil  a  full  grown  and  pretty  fat  hen  until  tender,  take  the  meat  out 
of  the  broth  and  add  noodles,  which  prepare  three  hours  before,  by  tak- 
ing one  egg  and  beat  till  quite  foamy,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  just  right  to  roll  as  thin  as  thick  paper,  then 
let  lay  on  moulding  board  until  dry ;  cut  in  halves,  roll  two  parts  to- 
gether and  cut  as  fine  as  possible.  Some  boil  them  tender  in  salt  water 
(be  sure  and  have  water  boiling  when  adding  noodles).  I  often  boil 
them  right  in  the  broth,  which  I  season  with  salt,  pepper,  ground  nutmeg 
or  onion. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Bernhardt,  Olney,  Texas. 

NOODLE  SOUP 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  eggs  and  flour ;  work  the  flour  into 
the  butter  and  eggs,  until  you  can  handle  on  a  pastry  board,  without 
sticking  to  the  hands.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  you  can,  add  more  flour  if  the 
dough  sticks  to  the  board,  and  then  cut  it  in  fine  strips,  and  then  put 
them  in  a  kettle  with  boiling  chicken  or  beef  broth,  well  seasoned. — 
Mrs.  M.  T.  Skode,  Copeland,  Ala. 

OYSTER  SOUP 
One  quart  of  milk,  one  quart  of  oysters,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Crush  a  dozen  crack- 
ers and  pour  the  soup  over  them ;  just  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  serve  immediately. — Leora  Newton,  Barnes- 
ville,  Georgia. 

A  GOOD  SOUP  FOR  POOR  FOLKS 
Take  some  meat  grease,  put  in  your  boiler  some  chips  of  Irish  pota- 
toes, onions,  some  rice,  macaroni — if  you  have  it — ham,  or  just  lean 
shoulder,  or  any  kind  of  salt  meat,  some  tomatoes,  pepper  to  taste.  Put 
all  in  pot  to  steam,  stir  to  keep  from  burning,  fill  with  hot  water ;  serve 


SOUPS 


with  crackers  or  baker's  bread  browned  in  oven. — Mrs.  N.  Conn,  Lo*a 
Bcaoh,  Mississippi. 

CREAM  OF  BEET  SOUP 
Six  small  new  red  beets ;  boil  till  tender  and  wash  fine ;  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  round  teaspoonful  of  salt,  with  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  pepper  and  a  scraped  onion.  Put  one  quart  of  milk  in  a 
kettle,  add  to  it  one-half  cupful  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  two  whole  cloves 
and  a  bay  leaf.  Cook  gently  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  beets. 
Press  all  through  a  fine  sieve  and  serve  with  squares  oi  toasted  bread. 
Cold  "left-over"  beets  may  be  used. — M.  M.  Taylob,  Louisiana. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 
One  quart  of  strained  tomatoes,  two  slices  of  onion,  five  cloves,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  thoroughly,  strain 
and  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour, 
worked  together  and  well  cooked  in  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Then  cook 
all  together  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  into  cups  or  small  bowls, 
add  a  dash  of  paprika  and  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  to  each  dish. 
Serve  with  salted  wafers. — Mes.  L.  D.  Robinson,  Velasco,  Texas. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP 
Stew  tomatoes,  canned  or  fresh,  with  a  bit  of  pepper,  corn,  bay  leaf, 
mace,  parsley,  etc.,  for  one-half  hour ;  then  strain,  add  one-eighth  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  for  each^pint.   Combine  with  an  equal  quantity  of  thin 
white  sauce.   Serve  immediately. — Mbs.  A.  Johnson,  Lyons,  Texas. 

FAVORITE  SOUP 
Boil  a  fresh  beef  bone,  take  out  and  put  in  one  can  of  tomatoes,  about 
one  dozen  sticks  of  macaroni,  three  onions,  one  pod  of  red  pepper ;  boil 
a  piece  of  fat  bacon  in  it ;  one  tablespoonful  of  rice,  one  ear  of  green 
corn,  if  convenient ;  add  one  or  two  carrots  if  you  can,  season  to  taste. 
Boil  at  least  an  hour. — Mbs.  Ethel  Raynob,  Cottondale,  Ala. 

RICE  SOUP 

Boil  part  of  one  ham  until  tender,  put  in  two  cupsful  of  rice,  one 
onion  chopped  fine,  salt  to  taste. — Miss  Esie  Joineb,  Pavo.  Texas. 

BEAN  SOUP 

Cook  one  pint  of  lima  beans  in  slightly  salted  water,  until  tender,  rub 
through  a  colander  and  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk.  Peel  two  onions, 
run  through  a  food  chopper,  and  add  to  your  beans.  Let  cook,  then 
thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted,  and  well  stirred  with 
two  tablespoonsful  of  flour.  Stir  constantly  until  smooth  and  creamy. 
Season  with  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  very  hot  with  crackers, 
croutons,  or  tiny  dinner  biscuits,  on  cold  days. — Mbs.  J.  A.  Gabrick. 
Dickinson,  Ala. 

BEEF  SOUP 

Take  a  nice  beef  bone  and  cook  until  tender ;  lift  out  bone,  then  cut 
up  fine  one  onion,  one  can  of  corn,  one-half  box  of  macaroni,  one  can  of 
tomatoes ;  salt  to  taste,  and  flavor  with  one  tablespoonful  of  chili  pow- 
der ;  cook  till  thick  and  serve. — Mrs.  Lottie  Rhodes,  Gibsland,  La. 

BISQUE  SOUP 
Boil  one  can  of  tomatoes  twenty  minutes,  add  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a 
little  pepper.    Heat  one  quart  of  skimmed  milk  (not  quite  boiling),  to 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


which  add  tomatoes.  Serve  with  crackers  or  browned  bread. — Mbs.  T. 
B.  Reeves,  Lorane,  Ga. 

CHICKEN  SOUP 
One  young  chicken,  jointed,  one  stalk  of  celery,  cut  fine,  one  dozen 
oysters,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  sweet 
milk  to  equal  soup  stock  in  quantity  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  the 
chicken  until  tender  in  three  pints  of  water,  remove  the  chicken,  strain 
the  stock,  add  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  then  the  celery  cut  fine,  the  butter 
and  the  corn  starch,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Just 
before  serving,  add  to  the  boiling  soup  the  oysters  and  remove  at  once 
from  the  fire. — Mbs.  Maida  Johnson,  El  Campo,  Texas. 

SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT 
One  pint  of  sliced  okra  and  one  pint  of  tomatoes ;  put  okra  in  boiler 
and  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender ;  then  add  the  toma- 
toes and  an  even  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Add  a  quart 
of  boiling  water,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little  cracked 
black  pepper.  Boil  half  an  hour  longer  and  it  is  ready  to  serve.  I  can 
okra  and  tomatoes  prepared  thus  for  winter  use,  adding  the  boiling 
water,  butter  and  pepper  when  I  open  the  can.  This  is  a  fine  soup  for 
summer  or  winter. — Miss  Lula  G.  Holland,  Ninety-Six,  S.  0. 

SOUP 

Two  cupsful  of  tomatoes,  either  fresh  or  canned.  Put  on  in  water 
and  cook  until  done,  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  adding  water  as  needed. 
When  done,  put  in  a  small  lump  of  soda.  Have  prepared  two  cups  of 
boiling  sweet  milk  in  which  you  have  already  put  salt,  black  pepper, 
and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Put  all  together,  then  crumble 
in  it  a  cold  biscuit  or  two  or  three  crackers.  Serve  while  warm  with 
crackers  or  egg-bread. — Mbs.  Claudia  Ozley,  Arcadia,  La. 

SOUP 

To  one  gallon  of  water  add  a  piece  of  bacon,  two  by  three  inches, 
sliced,  six  large  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  one  medium-sized  sliced  onion 
and  eight  or  ten  roasting  ear  cobs,  after  the  corn  has  been  scraped  from 
them.  After  cooking  an  hour,  the  cobs  can  be  taken  out  and  as  much 
corn  put  in  as  was  scraped  from  the  three  large  roasting  ears,  or  more, 
if  very  tender.  When  cooked  sufficiently,  add  half  gallon  of  sweet  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  when  it  boils  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Replenish 
water  as  it  boils  away. — Mbs.  M.  A.  Taylob,  Anderson,  Texas. 

SOUP 

Some  kind  of  fresh  meat  bone,  one  cup  of  rice,  one  cup  of  tomatoes, 
two  onions,  one-half  box  of  macaroni,  one  cup  of  milk,  pepper  and  salt  to 
suit  taste. — Mbs.  Maby  Bbistes,  Cole,  Miss. 

SOUP 

Slice  three  medium-sized  onions  fine,  put  them  in  a  graniteware 
saucepan  with  three  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Stir  until  onions  are 
slightly  browned,  then  add  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  which  have  been 
pressed  through  a  sieve.  Season  with  cayenne  or  black  pepper  and  salt ; 
add  one  pint  of  soup  stock.  Just  before  ready  to  serve,  add  one  scant 
pint  of  sweet  milk.  This  is  very  nice  served  hot  with  toasted  bread  or 
small  crackers. — Miss  Cablie  I.  Walkeb,  Sugar  Tree,  Tenn. 

SOUP 

Put  on  two  pints  of  small  white  beans  or  butter  beans,  let  boil  fifteen 
er  twenty  minutes,  then  drain  and  put  on  again  with  a  generous  piece 


SOUPS 


1 


of  pork  to  season.  Boil  until  tender,  keeping  plenty  of  water  over  them. 
One  hour  before  meal-time  peel  two  large  potatoes,  chop  fine,  add  one 
large  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  boil  in  a  separate  kettle  until  tender. 
When  beans  are  done,  drain  off  all  the  soup  (about  two  quarts)  and  add 
to  the  potatoes  and  onions,  also  add  a  small  cupful  of  tomatoes ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  wee  bit  of  sugar,  and  serve  with  crackers. 
Take  the  remainder  of  beans,  add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  or  molasses, 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Set  in  oven  to 
brown,  and  serve  hot. — Mrs.  Minnie  Owens,  Almyra,  Ark. 

SOUP 

Put  a  fresh  soup  bone  in  a  boiler,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  grad- 
ually come  to  a  boil ;  never  allow  to  boil  hard,  but  slowly  until  meat  of 
bone  is  tender.  Salt  has  a  tendency  to  harden  the  fibres  and  check  the 
flow  of  the  juices,  so  this  should  not  be  added  until  meat  is  done.  When 
meat  is  tender,  strain  water  through  a  muslin  cloth.  For  vegetable  soup, 
to  one  quart  of  this  water  take  one  medium-sized  Irish  potato,  peel,  cut 
in  small  squares,  one-half  cupful  of  rice,  or  omit  rice  and  use  okra  in- 
stead ;  when  rice  and  potatoes  are  soft,  add  one  can  of  tomatoes  chopped 
fine,  and  let  come  to  a  boil ;  then  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  in  smoothly;  let  boil  five  minutes,  re- 
move from  fire  and  serve  while  hot,  adding  black  pepper  to  suit  taste. — 
Mbs.  W.  P.  Howell,  Mendenhall,  Miss. 

EXCELLENT  SOUP 
Beef  stock  or  a  good  shank  bone  boiled  until  done.  To  one-half  gal- 
Ian  of  stock  add  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  one-half  pint  of  corn,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  rice,  one  cupful  of  Irish  potatoes,  cut  fine,  onion,  celery,  pepper, 
and  salt  to  taste ;  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  mixed  spices. 
Cook  well  done,  adding  more  water  if  necessary. — Mbs.  M.  J.  Maddox, 
Elierton,  Ga. 


3 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN 


MEATS 


COLD  ROAST  BEEF 
Cut  the  beef  in  thin  slices.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  cover  the  bottom 
with  the  slices  of  beef,  add  salt  and  pepper,  bits  of  butter  and  a  few  very 
thin  slices  of  onion.  Pour  over  it  one-half  cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes. 
Repeat  the  seasoned  beef  and  tomatoes  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  then 
add  one-half  cupful  of  gravy,  sprinkle  with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 
which  have  been  soaked  in  melted  butter.  Bake  one-half  hour  in  a  hot 
oven. — Mks.  J.  S.  Padgett,  White  City,  Fla. 

MEAT  ROAST 

Take  a  joint  of  beef  or  pork,  wipe  dry  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  flour, 
and  salt,  if  not  already  salted.  Place  in  baking  pan,  in  bottom  of  stove, 
with  about  one-half  cupful  of  grease.  Bake  for  about  fifteen  minutes, 
then  pour  a  cupful  of  water  in  pan  and  let  steam.  Repeat  this  at  inter- 
vals until  meat  is  tender  enough  to  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  then  place  on 
platter,  sprinkle  flour  in  gravy  until  thick,  stirring  until  brown ;  thin 
with  sweet  milk  or  water  and  serve  with  the  roast. — Miss  Nettie 
Ethesidge,  Sweetwater,  Ala. 

POT  ROAST 

Put  one  cupful  of  lard  or  drippings  in  a  pot — an  iron  kettle  is  best. 
When  quite  hot,  lay  in  a  nice  size  loin  or  brisket  roast  Any  nice  piece 
of  beef  or  mutton  will  do.  Let  fry,  with  an  onion  chopped  and  added, 
till  brown.  This  holds  the  juice.  Then  pour  boiling  water  to  half  the 
height  of  meat.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  pot  closely,  simmer  two 
or  three  hours ;  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  few  spoonsful  of  flour.  When 
done,  take  up  on  a  broad  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it.  Serve  hot  with 
corn  bread,  rice,  sweet  potatoes,  or  bread,  as  you  like. — Mrs.  Susie  P. 
Wheat,  Wheat,  Miss. 

ROAST 

Take  a  medium  roast,  say  for  a  family  of  six,  and  put  it  in  the  pot 
with  about  two  cupsful  of  water,  and  let  cook  until  perfectly  tender. 
While  meat  is  cooking,  prepare  sauce  to  baste  it  with  as  follows :  Take 
two  lemons  and  slice  thin,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  one  cupful  of  good 
vinegar,  two  tablespoonsf  ul  of  butter,  and  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  black  pepper. 
Let  come  to  a  boil  and  when  the  meat  is  tender  put  in  roaster,  stock  and 
all,  and  baste  with  sauce  and  brown  nicely  in  oven,  basting  and  turning 
until  all  of  the  sauce  is  used.  When  browned  nicely,  carve  it  and  put 
on  a  platter  and  pour  the  sauce,  or  gravy,  over  it,  and  garnish  with  lem- 
ons. Beef,  pork,  mutton  or  kid  are  nice  cooked  in  this  way. — MBS.  G.  F. 
Kinabd,  Lumlerton,  Miss. 

BEEF  STEAK 

Beat  or  crush  slices  after  they  are  cut  thin ;  have  ready  hot  lard 
and  dip  beef  in  dry  flour,  put  in  lard  and  fry  until  a  light  brown  with 
top  lid  on.   Then  cover  with  hot  water  and  simmer  for  one-half  hour,  or 


MEATS 


until  tender.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onions  when  liked  S«rv« 
with  hot  biscuit  or  bread. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Johnson,  Lloyd,  Flo, 

ROAST  BEEF 

Select  a  nice  piece  of  beef,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  roll  in  flour,  put 
in  the  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  Serve  with  gravy  made  from 
the  beef  and  tomato  catsup. — Miss  Annie  Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla. 

BEEF  STEAK 

Pound  your  steak  as  usual.  To  a  half  gallon  of  water  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  soda,  three  tablespoonsful  of  salt.  Let' dissolve,  and  then 
put  steak  in ;  soak  for  three  hours,  then  rinse  steak  in  clean  water. 
Have  egg  well  beaten,  dip  steak  in  egg,  then  roll  in  flour.  Have  grease 
hot  and  when  fried  it  will  be  tender. — Joe  Crap,  Peach,  Texas. 

STUFFED  STEAK 
Take  a  nice,  large  round  steak,  free  from  bone  or  gristle,  make  a 
dressing  same  as  for  turkey,  spread  on  the  steak.  Roll  up  in  a  clean 
white  cloth ;  tie  or  ew  up  to  prevent  dressing  coming  out.  Boil  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  for  one  hour,  then  brown  in  oven  ;  make  a  gravy 
of  the  liquid.  Steak  treated  this  way  will  be  nice  and  tender,  and  will 
go  much  further  than  when  prepared  the  usual  way.  —  Mrs.  Ethel 
Raynor,  Cottondale,  Ala. 

TLNDER  STEAK 
Salt  and  pepper  the  steak,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  as  usual.   When  well 
browned  draw  to  back  oi'  the  stove  and  pour  over  meat  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  rich  milk,  seasoned  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Simmer 
twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Martin,  Marshall,  Texas. 

BEEF  STEAK 

Cut  steak  in  slices,  beat  to  a  pulp,  season  with  salt  and  black  peppei 
to  taste,  roll  in  flour,  put  in  hot  lard  or  anything  you  have  to  fry  in. 
Fry  without  cover  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Pour  in  one-half  cupful 
of  water,  put  tight  cover  on  and  steam  a  few  minutes.  Take  steak  up 
and  you  have  a  delightful  brown  gravy  to  serve  with  steak.— Mas. 
E.  M.  Hines,  Franklin,  Qa. 

TO  MAKE  STEAK  TENDER 
Beat  into  a  two-pound  round  steak  one  cupful  of  flour ;  have  ready 
hot  skillet  with  grease ;  brown  on  each  side,  then  pepper  and  salt ;  add 
hot  water  enough  to  cover  meat ;  cover  skillet  and  set  in  moderate  oven. 
Bake  two  hours,  adding  more  water,  if  necessary,  while  cooking.  Serve 
in  platter  with  broth. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Wheeler,  Union  Springs,  Ala. 

CREOLE  STEAK 

Two  pounds  of  round  steak  and  one  onion,  chopped  fine.  Yolk  of 
two  eggs,  a  cupful  of  cracker  crumbs,  a  cupful  of  tomato  pulp,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  and  form  in  loaf ;  bake  thirty  minutes  in  covered 
pan.  Remove  cover  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Serve  with  tomatc 
sauce. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Wheeler,  Union  Springs,  Ala. 

BEEF  LOAF 

A  left-over  piece  of  roast,  a  cheap  cut  of  beef,  even  a  large  soup  bone, 
may  furnish  the  foundation.  Run  the  cooked  meat  through  the  meat 
chopper,  or  cut  it  coarsely  with  knife ;  crumble  as  much  stale  bread  as 
you  have  meat.   Chop  a  medium-sized  onion,  season  all  with  salt,  pepper 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  sage,  and  moisten  with  liquor  in  which  meat  was  boiled,  or  left-over 

gravy.  Mix  well,  put  in  greased  pan  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes,  or 
longer  if  loaf  is  large.  May  be  eaten  hot,  or  sliced  and  served  cold, 
which  makes  it  nice  for  the  Sunday  dinner  if  prepared  the  day  before. 
— Mrs.  J.  M.  S.  Myebs,  Lafayette,  Ga. 

HAMBURGER  FOR  LUNCH 
Chop  cold  boiled  ham  very  fine  and  put  on  stove  with  a  little  fried 
meat  grease.    To  every  pint  of  meat,  add  two  eggs.    Stir  till  the  eggs 
are  cooked.    Put  a  thin  layer  of  this  on  thin  pieces  of  bread,  with  a 
layer  of  chow-chow  between. — Mbs.  Belle  Whitakeb,  Giotown,  Texan. 

LEFT-OVER  MEATS 
A  good  way  and  easy  method  is  to  take  left-over  meat,  chop  fine,  add 
two  large  onions,  also  a  little  water.    Boil  twenty  minutes,  and  serve 
while  hot. — Mbs.  S.  M.  Upshaw,  Dexter,  Ga. 

BEEF  LOAF 

Three  pounds  of  beef,  or  beef  and  pork  mixed,  one  cupful  of  crack- 
ers, or  bread  crumbs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  if  all  beef  is  used.  Have  meat 
ground  and  crackers  rolled ;  mix  all  ingredients,  form  into  loaves,  place 
in  roasting  pan,  bake  one  hour. — Mbs.  E.  E.  Heibneb,  Yellow  Pine,  Ala. 

BEEF  MELT 

Get  a  smooth  melt,  see  that  it  has  no  cuts  on  it.  Begin  at  large  end 
and  with  long,  sharp  knife  split  it  as  though  it  were  to  be  used  as  a 
pudding  bag.  Chip  fine  three  cupsful  of  leaf  fat,  one  onion,  red  and 
black  pepper,  and  salt.  Stuff  melt  and  pin  up  opening  with  sharp  stick. 
Place  in  long  pan,  pour  in  boiling  water.  Let  L oil  for  a  few  minutes; 
turn.  Pour  off  the  water,  add  just  a  little  clear  water  and  bake  slowly 
until  done. — Mbs.  M.  M.  Smith,  Union,  Texas. 

MEAT  PIE 

Stew  till  very  tender  one  or  two  pounds  of  round  steak,  with  cold 
water,  pepper,  salt  and  onion,  also  a  little  Irish  potato,  then  thicken 
with  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour.  (Be  sure  there  is  plenty  of  gravy.) 
Then  place  this  stew  in  a  bake  dish.  Now,  for  the  one  crust  on  top  :  Mix 
with  hands,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  full  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  (  sometimes 
I  use  lard)  ;  with  a  spoon  mix  this,  with  the  following  :  One  well-beaten 
egg,  to  which  has  been  added  one-half  cupful  or  more  of  milk ;  then  roll 
with  the  hands,  adding  a  little  flour  and  place  carefully  over  the  meat  in 
bake  dish.  Bake  till  a  rich  brown  on  top ;  I  then  slip  the  dish  on  a  sil- 
ver tray  and  send  it  to  the  table. — Mbs.  F.  S.  Whitney,  Elkton,  Fla. 

BEEF  STEAK  AND  OYSTER  PIE 
Cut  three  pounds  of  fillet  of  beef  or  rump  steak  into  large  scallops. 
Fry  them  quickly  over  a  very  brisk  fire,  so  as  to  brown  them  before  they 
are  half  done ;  then  place  them  on  the  bottom  of  dish,  leaving  the  center 
open,  in  two  successive  layers.  Fill  the  center  with  four  dozen  oysters, 
previously  parboiled  and  breaded ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
pour  the  following  preparation  over  the  whole:  When  the  scallops  of 
beef  have  been  fried  in  a  sauce  or  frying  pan,  pour  nearly  all  the  grease 
out,  and  shake  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  it  Stir  this  over  the  fire 
for  one  minute,  and  then  add  a  pint  of  good  gravy  or  broth,  two  table- 
■poonsful  of  mushroom  catsup,  an  equal  quantity  of  sauce,  and  the 


11 


liquor  of  the  oyster*.  Stir  the  whole  over  the  fire,  and  keep  it  boil- 
ing for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Half  an  hour  after  this  sauce  has  been 
poured  into  the  pie,  cover  it  with  puff  paste  in  the  usual  way.  Bake  for 
an  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve. — Jewel  Taylor,  Winnsboro,  La. 

FARMER'S  DAINTY  DISH  — MEAT  PIE 
Peel  and  slice  thin  Irish  potatoes  and  onions  (five  potatoes  to  one 
small  onion),  take  half  a  pound  of  sweet  salt  pork  to  a  pound  of  beef, 
mutton  or  veal,  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces.  Take  some  nice  bread 
dough  and  shorten  a  little,  and  line  the  bottom  of  pan  with  slices  of 
pork,  then  a  layer  of  meat,  potatoes  and  onions.  Dust  over  a  little 
pepper,  and  cover  with  a  crust ;  repeat  this  until  the  pan  is  full — the 
size  of  the  pan  will  depend  on  the  number  in  the  family  ;  pour  in  suffi- 
cient water  to  cover  and  finish  with  crust  Let  it  simmer  till  meat,  veg- 
etables, etc.,  are  done,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  hard.  Serve  hot. — Mbs. 
H.  O.  Kibton,  Rome,  Ga. 

HAMBURGER  PUDDING 
Fifteen  cents'  worth  of  round  steak,  piece  of  suet,  three  good-sized 
onions,  cut  fine,  five  eggs,  three  slices  of  stale  bread  soaked  in  cold 
water,  then  squeeze  out ;  salt,  pepper  and  sage  to  suit  taste.  Make  in  big 
pone  and  put  in  pan  with  half  cupful  of  hot  lard  ;  set  in  oven  and  brown, 
then  pour  water  over  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. — Mbs.  W.  H. 
Dun  lap,  Van  Buren,  Ark. 

MEAT  PUDDING 
One  can  of  roast  beef,  two  boiled  Irish  potatoes,  two  onions ;  run 
through  food  chopper,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  season  to  taste 
and  bake  in  hot  oven.    Serve  with  poached  eggs. — Mbs.  O.  E.  Mabtin, 
Oxford,  Fla. 

SPANISH  MEAT  BALLS 
One  can  of  tomatoes,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  cayenne  to  taste — this 
forms  the  Spanish ;  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  Hamburg  steak,  or  cold 
boiled  beef,  ground  fine.  Soak  half  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  drain  off  all 
water ;  one  egg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  mix  together,  roll  into  balls 
the  size  of  an  egg  and  cook  in  the  Spanish  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
—Mbs.  P.  L.  Moblet,  Billiard,  Fla. 

PILLAU 

To  make  a  good  pilL  j,  take  six  or  seven  force  meat  balls  after  they 
are  fried,  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  them  and  mash  well,  add 
a  little  salt  and  one-half  pint  of  rice  ;  cook  in  double  boiler.  Onions  can 
be  added  if  liked. — Mbs.  D.  G.  Caldwell,  Kingsland,  Ga. 

MEAT  LOAF 

One  pound  of  round  steak,  one  pound  of  pork,  two  eggs,  two  small 
onions,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  chili  powder,  one 
cup  of  juice  from  a  can  of  tomatoes,  two  cupsful  of  crackers  or  stale 
bread  crumbs,  salt  an.  pepper  to  taste ;  grind  the  meat,  roll  the  bread 
crumbs,  mince  the  onions,  mix  all  ingredients  well ;  form  into  loaves 
and  bake  half-hour. — Mbs.  Maby  Sams,  Rockwall,  Texas. 

VEAL  LOAF 

Three  pounds  of  veal  knuckle,  boiled  until  it  will  fall  from  the  bone. 
When  done,  there  should  be  about  one  pint  of  broth.  Take  out  the  meat, 
chop  while  hot  and  pick  out  all  bones  and  gristle.  After  chopping  fine, 
season  well  with  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg.    Add  two  Ublespoonsful  «f 


12 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


vinegar,  then  pour  in  the  broth  and  mix  well.  Line  a  deep  dish  with 
hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  slices  and  place  the  chopped  meat  in  the  dish ; 
when  cold,  cut  in  nice  slices. — Mes.  C.  L.  Heath,  Loughman,  Fla. 

MEAT  OMELET 
One  cup  of  stewed  meat,  any  kind,  chopped  fine ;  put  in  pan  with 
enough  lard  to  fry  the  eggs,  beat  five  eggs  well,  add  one-half  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  pour  in  pan  with  meat  and  scramble ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. — Mes.  Annie  M.  Floyd,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

VEAL  OR  BEEF  LOAF 
Two  pounds  of  lean  beef  or  veal  (raw),  one-fourth  pound  of  salt 
pork,  one  and  three-quarters  cupsful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  crackers, 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  pepper,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  sprinkle  of  thyme. 
Put  beef  or  veal,  pork  and  crackers  through  food  chopper,  mix  well  and 
mould  into  loaf  and  bake  from  one  and  a  half  to  two  hours,  basting  with 
water.  This  is  very  good  when  cold  for  lunches  and  sandwiches. — Mes. 
Willie  L.  Lyon,  Wh'.tehouse,  Fla. 

PORK  AND  POTATOES 
Peel  Irish  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  pan,  adding  a  teacupful  of  water, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  and  one 
spoonful  of  salt.  Slice  fat  pork  and  lay  on  top  of  potatoes.  Cover  pan 
ana  put  in  the  stove  and  bake  until  the  meat  and  potatoes  are  brown. — 
Mes.  Minnie  Lambebt,  Manistee,  Ala. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 
One  dozen  large  oysters,  one  dozen  thin  slices  of  bacon ;  seasoning. 
Pick  over  the  oysters  carefully,  roll  each  in  a  slice  of  bacon  and  fasten 
the  ends  with  a  skewer.  Put  in  a  hot  spider  or  chafing  dish.  Cook  until 
the  bacon  is  crisp.  Season  and  serve  very  hot. — Miss  Eula  Milleb, 
Cantonment,  Fla. 

ROAST  PIG 

Prepare  a  bread  dressing  as  for  poultry,  adding  a  little  onion,  and 
set  it  aside.  Select  a  pig  about  six  weeks  old.  Wash  it  thoroughly,  in- 
side and  outside.  Salt  the  inside  and  stuff  it  with  the  prepared  dress- 
ing ;  make  it  full  and  plump,  its  original  size  and  shape.  Sew  the  pig 
up,  place  it  in  a  kneeling  position  in  the  dripping  pan,  tying  the  legs  in 
proper  position  ;  pour  a  little  hot  salted  water  in  the  dripping  pan. 
Baste  with  butter  and  water  a  few  times,  as  the  pig  warms,  afterwards 
with  gravy  from  dripping  pan,  when  it  begins  to  smoke.  Skim  off  most 
of  the  grease ;  stir  into  that  remaining  in  the  pan  a  good  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  adding  enough  water  to  make  it  the  right  consistency. — Mes. 
Maida  Johnson,  El  Campo,  Texas. 

BAKED  HAM 

Enclose  the  ham  in  a  dough  made  of  flour  and  water,  put  in  a  drip- 
ping pan,  place  in  a  heated  oven  and  cook  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the 
dough  is  of  a  good  brown.  Reduce  heat  to  a  low  temperature.  Allow 
to  bake  four  or  five  hours.  It  is  a  slow  process,  tut  there  is  no  basting, 
and  when  the  ham  is  done  the  flavor  is  perfect,  and  it  has  been  cooked 
in  its  own  juices. — Mes.  J.  F.  E.,  Panama  City,  Fla. 

BOILED  HAM 

Soak  a  small  ham  over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning,  take  it 
out,  wipe  it,  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  covering  it  with  fresh 
cftld  water.    Let  it  boil  ilowly  for  about  three  hours,  then  rem«r»  the 


MEATS 


IS 


skin  and  sprinkle  it  with  a  little  sugar.  Make  a  few  incisions  on  the 
surface  and  cover  it  lightly  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  sprinkling  a  little 
white  pepper  over  it  Then  set  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  till  well  browned. 
It  may  be  served  at  once,  but  is  considered  prime  delicately  sliced  when 
it  is  thoroughly  cold. — Cecil  Rust,  Pelican,  La. 

FRIED  HAM 

Cut  the  ham  in  thin  slices,  put  it  in  frying  pan  with  a  half  cupful  of 
water.  Turn  occasionally  and  when  moisture  dries  out,  add  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lard.  Let  brown  a  little,  take  up  the  ham  and  make  gravy. 
If  the  ham  is  fat  enough,  grease  will  boil  out  to  make  gravy.  In  pre- 
paring it  this  way  you  will  find  it  much  better  than  the  ordinary  hard 
fried  ham. — Miss  Maggie  L.  Hendeick,  Roberta,  Oa. 

HAM  PIE 

Take  a  small  ham,  or  part  of  a  large  one,  wash  with  soda  and  hot 
water,  scraping  it  well.  Have  ready  some  hot  water  in  a  dinner  pot, 
put  the  ham  in  this  and  cook  until  meat  falls  from  the  bone ;  mince  very 
fine.  Now  wash  about  two  cupsful  of  rice,  cooking  it  in  the  ham  liquor 
a  short  while,  or  until  tender.  Take  the  minced  ham  and  rice,  stirring 
well  together,  seasoning  nicely  with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  into  a  pan, 
putting  a  layer  of  ham  on  top.  Set  this  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake 
a  light  brown. — Mrs.  Z.  D.  Duke,  Gushing,  Texas. 

BAKED  LIVER  LOAF 
Boil  one  hog's  liver  thoroughly,  then  grate  through  a  grater  or  mash 
with  a  fork ;  put  the  liver  in  one  pint  of  the  soup  in  which  it  has  been 
boiled,  or  one  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  cut  fine  one  pound  of  fresh  pork,  two 
eggs,  two  large  onions,  chopped  fine,  one  small  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  mix.  Bake  in  oven  one  and  a  half  hours. — Edith  Jebsild, 
Oak,  Ala. 

LIVER  PUDDING 
Take  the  lean  part  of  head,  also  heart  and  liver,  mash  very  fine ;  add 
three  cups  of  rice,  well  cooked.   Mash  all  together,  season  well  with  salt, 
pepper  and  sage.   Make  into  balls,  flour  and  fry. — Mbs.  C.  J.  Goolsby, 
Monticello,  Oa. 

LIVER  PUDDING 
Boil  hog  liver  and  kidneys  until  done.  Boil  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  rice,  mash  liver  and  rice  together  and  season  with  black  pepper  and 
red  pepper,  salt  to  taste  (onions  may  be  added  if  you  like),  and  one 
small  handful  of  dried  sage  mashed  through  a  sieve.  Make  out  in  small 
cakes  and  fry. — Mrs.  E.  W.  De  Medicis,  Eden,  Ala. 

CRIPPLE 

Boil  the  head  and  haslet  of  a  hog  until  well  done.  Take  out  and 
leave  liquor  boiling.  Into  this  add  meal,  stirring  all  the  while,  until 
thick ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Pour  into  pan  and  when  cold 
8lice  and  fry  in  hot  fat. — Mbs.  C.  J.  Goolsby,  Monticello,  Ga. 

LIVER  PUDDING 
Cook  half  of  hog's  head  until  very  tender,  take  out  of  the  pot  and 
remove  all  bones,  then  mash  fine.  Cook  half  of  liver  in  another  vessel 
and  mash  it  fine  when  done.  Add  water  to  the  broth  in  which  the  head 
was  cooked  until  there  is  half  a  gallon  or  more,  season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper,  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  enough  meal  to  make  a  thick 
mush.  When  it  has  cooked  a  few  minutes  stir  in  the  liver  and  head, 
then  empty  into  a  jar  or  pan  to  cool.    When  cold,  cut  in  thin  slices  and 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


fry  in  hot,  greased  skillet,  being  sure  that  it  is  brown  on  the  under  side 
before  you  attempt  to  turn  it  over  or  it  will  tear  up  in  the  turning. — 
liss.  R.  B.  England,  Rocky  Face,  Ga. 

CHITTERLINGS 
Wash  them  in  real  -warm  water  and  let  soak  orer  night  in  strong  salt 
water.  Then  wash  again,  put  on  to  boil,  boiling  until  real  tender.  Grind 
through  sausage  mill,  season  with  black  pepper,  add  more  salt,  if  needed, 
put  in  stone  bowl  and  press.  When  ready  to  fry,  slice  real  thin  and 
have  an  egg  beaten  very  lightly.  Dip  in  this  and  then  fry  in  hot  lard 
until  brown. — Mbs.  C.  R  Whatlet,  Towns,  Ga. 

HOG'S  HEAD  CHEESE  (SOUSE) 
Boil  hog's  head  and  feet  until  meat  falls  off  the  bone ;  cut  up  fine, 
put  on  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste,  add  one  small  red  pepper,  two-thirds 
cupful  of  vinegar,  and  small  handful  of  sage.  Mash  sage  through  sieve. 
Mix  all  well  together  and  put  in  earthen  bowl,  mould  and  serve  cold. 
Never  mould  in  tinware.  This  is  excellent  for  lunches. — Mbs.  E.  W. 
De  Medicis,  Eden,  Ala. 

PICKLED  MEAT 
Boil  together  seven  pounds  of  salt,  one-half  gallon  of  syrup,  or  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  in  eight  gallons  of  water.  Pack  meat  in  layers,  and 
when  water  is  perfectly  cool,  pour  over  the  meat,  and  be  sure  to  keep 
well  under  water  by  weights.  This  proportion  is  for  one  hundred 
pounds.  It  is  fine  to  keep  back-bone  and  spare-ribs  fresh. — Mbs.  J.  C. 
Goolsby,  Graham,  Ga. 

PRESSED  MEAT 

Take  the  head  and  feet  of  one  hog,  perfectly  free  from  the  least  par- 
ticle of  hair,  place  them  in  pot  with  water  to  cover  well.  Salt  and  cook 
slowly  until  meat  drops  from  the  bone.  Place  a  colander  over  a  large 
mixing  bowl,  and  pour  meat  and  liquid  into  it.  Let  it  drip  until  cool, 
then  with  the  hands  mash  the  meat  until  every  bone  or  piece  of  one  is 
removed.  Then  run  the  meat  through  a  meat  chopper  and  put  away 
until  the  following  day.  Lift  the  lard  off  of  the  jelly  now  formed  in  the 
mixing  bowl  until  it  is  free  of  grease.  Heat  jelly  and  mix  ground  meat 
and  any  desired  seasoning  together  and  set  away  to  harden  in  a  mould. 
Add  vinegar,  if  desired. — Mbs.  Judson  McConnell,  Mt.  Airy,  Ga. 

SCRAPPLE 

Take  the  head,  heart,  liver,  feet  and  other  meat  scraps,  and  trim  fat 
off.  Meat  must  be  lean.  Add  water  and  cook  until  the  meat  falls  from 
the  bones,  take  all  the  bones  out  and  cut  meat  in  small  pieces.  Take 
the  water  it  was  cooked  in  and  cool  it  Take  the  fat  off,  then  put  it 
back  on  the  fire.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil,  put  the  chopped  meat 
into  it,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  this  cooks,  stir  in  enough 
corn  meal  to  make  a  thick  mush — let  the  meal  go  through  your  fingers 
slowly  to  prevent  it  from  lumping.  Let  this  boil  slowly  for  one  hour, 
stirring  constantly,  then  set  it  back  and  let  simmer  for  another  hour. 
Then  pour  it  in  a  square  pan  two  or  three  inches  deep  to  give  it  form. 
— Mbs.  Kate  Stickle,  Bridgeport,  Ala. 

SCRAPPLE 

Take  a  fresh  hog's  head  and  wash  clean,  one  hog's  liver,  cleaned,  and 
cut  in  small  pieces ;  put  both  head  and  liver  in  a  large  kettle  and  cover 
with  water,  then  boil  until  thoroughly  tender ;  remove  from  head  all 
bones.  Chop  the  meat  and  liver  very  fine,  put  back  in  the  kettle  again, 
in  which  the  steck  meat  was  boiled  and  l*t  boil  again,  add  corn  meal 


MEATS 


15 


slowly,  stirring  continually,  adding  meal  enough  to  make  the  mass  very 
hard  when  cold.  While  stirring,  add  sage,  pepper  and  salt ;  when  done 
pour  into  a  large,  shallow  pan  to  cool.  Slice  and  fry  brown  in  hot  fat. 
Serve  hot. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Warmack,  Alachua,  Fla. 

SCRAPPLE 

When  making  cheese  of  hog  heads,  save  the  water  they  are  boiled 
in,  skim  off  most  of  the  grease,  add  a  little  of  the  chopped  meat,  season 
with  onions,  sage,  thyme  and  pepper;  bring  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  dry 
meal  until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  hold  the  spoon  up ;  then  set  away  until 
cold ;  slice,  dip  in  meal  and  fry  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  D.  G.  Caldwell, 
Kingsland,  Ga. 

SCRAPPLE 

At  butchering  time  take  the  bony  pieces,  head,  backbone,  etc.,  of  the 
hog  and  boil  until  the  meat  will  leave  the  bones ;  run  the  meat  through 
a  cutter  and  return  to  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  from  which 
the  grease  has  been  skimmed ;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  finely  pow- 
dered sage.  When  the  mass  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in  corn  meal  until  as 
thick  as  mush ;  stir  constantly  until  well  cooked.  When  cold,  slice  and 
fry  brown.— Miss  Margaret  S.  Graham,  Jasper,  Fla. 

SAUSAGE 

Add  to  a  heaping  two-gallon  dishpan  of  meat,  cut  up,  one  cupful  of 
salt  and  one  tablespoonful  each  of  red  and  black  pepper  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sage ;  add  the  seasoning  before  grinding  and  it  will  save  the 
trouble  of  working  it  in  afterwards.  If  you  want  to  keep  it  fresh  for 
some  length  of  time  pack  closely  in  one-half  gallon  fruit  jars,  or  better 
still,  small  crocks,  and  cover  with  melted  lard  just  warm  enough  to  run. 
— Mrs.  F.  G.  Vaughn,  Falls  City,  Ala. 

LIVER  SAUSAGE 
To  make  this,  use  hog  livers,  hearts,  melts,  sweetbreads,  in  fact,  all 
eatable  scraps  that  are  often  thrown  away.  Put  them  on  and  cook  real 
tender.  In  another  vessel  cook  your  hog's  head  until  it  falls  to  pieces. 
Run  all  through  a  meat  chopper,  mix  together  and  run  through  a  meat 
chopper  again.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage.  Sack  in  clean,  white 
sacks  as  you  would  sausage.  It  will  keep  for  weeks. — Mrs.  T.  E.  El- 
liott, Vincent,  Ala. 

SCRAMBLED  SAUSAGE 
To  one  pound  of  sausage  use  five  eggs ;  have  the  pan  hot  and  well 
greased,  break  the  sausage  in  small  bits,  keep  turning  until  done,  then 
turn  in  the  five  beaten  eggs ;  scramble  till  done. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Martin, 
Marshall,  Terns. 

PORK  SAUSAGE 
Four  pounds  of  chopped  meat,  two  level  tablespoonsful  of  table  salt, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  powdered  sage,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  red  pep- 
per, and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper. — Mrs.  E.  Frazier,  Hal- 
letsville,  Texas. 

SAUSAGE 

After  trying  many  recipes  and  often  getting  my  sausage  either  too 
hot,  too  salty  or  too  fresh,  I  have  evolved  the  following,  which  is  always 
a  success :  If  pork  is  very  fat,  use  some  beef,  a  fourth  is  a  good  propor- 
tion, and  to  every  nine  pounds  of  meat  use  six  level  teaspoonsful  of  salt, 
six  level  teaspoonsful  of  sage  (three  if  home-grown),  four  level  tea- 
spoonsful  of  black  pepper,  half  teaspoonful  of  red  pepper.  Weigh  this 
amount  aach  tima,  season  and  work  thoroughly  and  you  will  find  it  much 


16 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


more  satisfactory  than  the  old  guess-work  way.  Stuff  in  muslin  ^ags, 
holding  two  pounds  each,  or  in  casings  bought  at  the  market.  They  are 
fine  and  so  much  nicer  than  the  home-cleaned  casings. — Mbs.  J.  J. 
Matheson,  Bennettsville,  S.  C. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 
Dress  a  good-sized  young  chicken,  split  open  on  back,  salt  all  over 
and  place  skin  side  up  in  a  pan  covered  with  water.  Cut  thin  slices  of 
fat  meat  and  onions,  if  onion  flavor  is  liked.  Turn  another  pan  over  it 
and  cook  in  hot  oven,  basting  and  keeping  enough  water  in  pan  to  make 
gravy  when  done.  Cook  a  nice  brown. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Rhodes,  Lincoln- 
ton,  N.  C. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 
Dress  chicken  day  before,  salt  well  and  leave  whole.  Two  hours  be- 
fore ready  to  serve,  rinse  off  all  salt  and  while  «till  wet  roll  in  flour; 
lay  in  broiler,  place  one-half  pound  of  butter  on  top,  and  pour  two  cups- 
ful  of  boiling  water  over,  and  cover  so  no  steam  can  escape.  Let  simmer 
until  thoroughly  tender,  lay  on  platter  and  garnish  with  celery  or  pars- 
ley.— Mbs.  A.  Wheeler,  Summerville,  Ga. 

SMOTHERED  BAKED  CHICKEN 
Dress  and  joint  a  chicken,  then  salt,  pepper  and  flour  each  piece. 
Put  in  a  bean  pot,  pour  one-half  pint  of  boiling  water  over  it  and  bake 
for  one  and  a  half  hours,  if  a  young  chicken  ;  three  and  a  half  hours  if  an 
old  one ;  then  add  one  cupful  of  creamy  milk  and  a  lump  of  butter. — 
Mrs.  Annie  Kibby,  Mentone,  Ala. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN  WITH  RICE 
Cut  chicken  down  back,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  put  chicken  in  roaster  with  sufficient  water 
to  cover.  Add  one  slice  of  fat  pork,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  bake  until 
very  tender  and  nice  brown.  Cook  one-half  pint  of  rice  until  done  and 
every  grain  stands  by  itself,  place  chicken  in  center  of  dish  with  rice 
around  edges,  pour  over  this  a  brown  gravy  made  from  the  water  in 
which  chicken  was  cooked,  add  a  little  browned  flour  and  minced  giblets, 
garnish  with  bits  of  parsley. — Mrs.  J.  D.  Porter,  Senatobia,  Miss. 

SMOTHERED  FRIED  CHICKEN 
Take  a  plump  young  chicken,  dress,  salt  slightly,  season  with  black 
pepper,  dip  in  dry  flour  and, drop  in  hot  lard  or  butter,  and  fry  with  lid 
on  until  light  brown.    Then  cover  with  hot  water  and  simmer  a  few 
minutes. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Johnson,  Lloyd,  Fla. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 
Clean  a  large,  young  chicken,  split  down  the  back,  remove  entrails, 
break  breast  bone  so  it  will  lay  flat.  Salt  and  lay  skin  side  down.  When 
ready  to  cook,  put  in  pan,  skin  side  up,  dredge  with  a  little  flour,  dot 
generously  with  butter,  pour  over  two  cups  of  hot  water,  cover  tight  and 
put  in  oven.  When  the  chicken  begins  to  get  tender,  leave  the  cover  off 
and  baste  often,  while  browning.  When  done,  which  will  take  an  hour 
or  more  (depends  on  age  of  chicken),  take  up,  thicken  liquor  in  pan  with 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  adding  salt  if  needed. — 
Mbs.  J.  C.  McDonald,  Rockwall,  Texas. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN 
Dress  and  joint  a  young  chicken,  place  in  a  roasting  pan,  cover  with 
sweet  cream,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  butter.    Bake  in  the 


MEATS 


17 


oven ;  when  there  is  just  enough  cream  left  to  make  a  bowl  of  gravy,  the 
chicken  will  be  done. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Hughey,  Calhoun,  Oa. 

CURRIED  CHICKEN,  VEAL  OR  MUTTON 
Fry  about  a  cupful  of  onions  a  rich  brown,  add  to  it  a  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water  and  a  cupful  of  bits  of  meat.  If  the  meat  is  raw,  let  it  cook 
until  done.  If  cold,  merely  bring  to  a  boil.  Mix  together  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  curry  powder,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
and  a  little  water  or  milk  ;  stir  this  into  the  boiling  meat,  cook  till  done. 
Serve  with  rice  or  other  vegetables. — Kate  H.  Evans,  Milton,  Fla. 

SHELL  CHICKEN  FRICASSEE 
Boil  a  tender  chicken  and  one  calf's  tongue,  with  a  few  carrots,  some 
onions,  celery  and  salt.  Take  out  of  gravy,  skin  calf  tongue  and  let  cool. 
Then  cut  in  small  pieces,  melt  one-half  a  cupful  of  butter,  stir  in  about 
one-half  cupful  of  flour,  pour  in  the  chicken  gravy  hot,  to  make  a  thick, 
smooth  gravy,  salt  to  taste,  add  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  capers,  a  cupful  of  cut  champignons.  Mix  the  cut  chicken  and 
tongue  with  the  hot  gravy,  fill  in  shells,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 
Bake  about  twenty  minutes  to  a  golden  brown  color.  Take  out  of  the 
oven  and  place  a  slice  of  lemon  to  each  shell  and  serve  with  rolls  after 
soup  in  course  of  dinner. — Miss  Minna  Andreae,  Mathis,  Oa. 

FRIED  CHICKEN 
When  chicken  is  dressed  and  cut  up,  add  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  rub  it  on  well,  dredge  with  flour,  after  a  generous  sprinkle  of  black 
pepper.  Put  on  in  hot  grease  ;  cover ;  turn  as  it  browns.  When  all  is 
brown,  add  one  cupful  of  water  in  which  has  been  mixed  two  level  tea- 
spoonsful  of  flour.  Steam  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  W.  Parkman,  Green- 
ville, Ala. 

SOUTHERN  FRIED  CHICKEN 
Dress  a  frying-size  chicken  in  the  usual  way,  dip  into  well-beaten 
egg,  then  into  seasoned  flour.  Fry  over  a  quick  fire,  keeping  just  enough 
lard  in  the  pan  to  keep  it  from  burning.  Cover  the  pan  as  soon  as  you 
put  the  chicken  in,  as  the  steam  makes  it  tender ;  turn  quickly  every 
three  or  four  minutes ;  it  requires  but  twenty  minutes  to  fry  a  panful 
when  the  chicken  weighs  about  two  pounds.  When  tender,  remove  to 
platter,  but  keep  warm  until  time  to  serve  it.  Now  add  to  the  lard  left 
in  pan  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  paste ;  let  brown,  then  add  water  to 
right  consistency ;  when  boiling,  add  to  it  the  well-mashed  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs  and  one  whole  sliced  hard-boiled  egg ;  season  to  taste 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  separately  and  do  not  pour  over  the  nice, 
crisp,  brown  chicken. — Mrs.  Charley  Dean,  Evergreen,  Ala. 

ROAST  CHICKEN 

Take  a  fat  chicken  and  dress  nicely.  Make  a  dressing  as  follows : 
Two  loaves  of  corn  bread,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  sage  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  one  onion.  Mix  well,  fill  the  chicken  with  this  dressing,  sew 
up  and  place  in  baker.  Place  dressing  all  around  it.  Bake  for  two 
hours,  serving  with  gravy  made  from  the  chicken  and  potato  salad. — 
Virginia  Nelson,  Harlor  View,  Fla. 

FRENCH  BAKED  CHICKEN 
Joint  one  large  chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour, 
and  brown  quickly  in  hot  lard.  When  browned,  place  in  a  granite  pan 
or  baking  dish.  Use  part  of  the  lard  in  which  the  chicken  was  browned 
to  make  a  thin  gravy,  using  flour  and  water.  Season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper;  a  little  bay  leaf  added  gives  a  delicious  flavor.   Make  enough 


13 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  the  gravy  to  cover  the  chicken  in  the  pan.  Cover  the  pan  closely  with 
a  lid  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  two  hours.  This  is  fine  for  Sunday 
dinner,  as  it  can  be  fixed  before  going  to  church  and  will  be  ready  to 
serve  when  you  get  home. — Mes.  S.  B.  Laeimoee,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 
Boil  two  chickens  until  so  tender  that  meat  can  easily  be  removed 
from  the  bones.  Place  the  meat  in  an  earthen  dish  in  alternate  layers 
of  dark  and  white  meat,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  and  pepper  over  each 
layer.  Allow  the  water,  in  which  the  chickens  have  been  boiled,  to  boil 
until  it  measures  only  a  pint.  Let  this  cool  and  just  before  it  begins 
to  jelly,  pour  it  over  the  meat. — Mes.  W.  M.  Watkins,  Fitzgerald,  Ga. 

CHICKEN  AND  MACARONI 
Disjoint  chicken  as  for  frying,  put  on  in  boiling  water  enough  to 
cover  and  cook  slowly  until  almost  done.  Cook  macaroni  in  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and  add  to  the  chicken ;  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Turn  all  in  a  pan,  set  in  stove  and  finish  cook- 
ing. If  gravy  is  not  thick  enough,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  stirred  in 
sweet  milk. — Mes.  G.  T.  Penney,  Independence,  Texas. 

TO  COOK  AN  OLD  HEN  THAT  IS  TOUGH 
Cut  the  chicken  in  small  pieces  as  for  frying.  Put  in  a  covered  pot 
with  just  enough  hot  water  to  cover.  Salt  to  taste ;  cook  slowly  until 
tender.  While  chicken  is  cooking,  cut  two  onions,  one  garlic,  six  car- 
rots, three  tomatoes  (canned  tomatoes  will  do).  Put  one  large  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  in  frying  pan  and  when  hot  put  in  onions,  garlic,  car- 
rots and  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour.  Let  brown  and  then  put  in  the 
tomatoes,  cook  two  or  three  minutes,  and  then  add  a  cup  of  hot  water. 
Be  sure  to  have  it  well  browned  before  adding  water.  Stir  well  and  then 
pour  in  pot  with  chicken.  Add  water  enough  to  make  gravy.  Cook 
half  an  hour  longer,  and  you  will  have  a  very  delicious  dish. — Miss 
Eloise  Tisdale,  Chatawa,  Miss. 

BAKED  CHICKEN 
Dress  the  fowl  and  cut  up  as  if  it  were  to  be  fried ;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  place  in  a  granite  pudding  pan,  and  cover  with  sweet  milk, 
to  which  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  put  in  oven  and  let  bake  and 
boil  until  tender,  then  put  in  a  deep  dish  and  pour  the  gravy  over  it,  and 
serve  hot. — Louise  E.  Jones,  Pocahontas.  Tenn. 

BAKED  CHICKEN  AND  DRESSING  SERVED  WITH 
CRANBERRIES 
Select  a  grown  fowl  and  fatten  for,  at  least,  two  weeks.  Dress  two 
or  three  days  before  cooking,  put  in  a  flour  sack  and  hang  up  to  drain. 
In  cold  weather  put  very  little  salt,  as  it  toughens  the  meat.  To  cook, 
get  a  lard  can  with  top  and  steam  in  as  little  water  as  possible.  Two 
or  three  tablespoonsful  of  cream  add  to  the  flavor.  When  the  fowl  is 
very  tender,  which  it  will  be  in  two  hours,  take  from  the  can,  place  in  a 
large  stove  pan,  and  pack  your  dressing  around  it. — Mes.  LeVebt 
Shivees,  Norwood,  Ga. 

BAKED  CHICKEN 
When  you  are  hungry  for  fried  chicken  and  all  your  chickens  are  too 
large  to  fry,  try  this :  Dress  and  joint  your  chicken  as  usual,  place  in 
salt  water  for  one-half  hour ;  place  a  baking  pan  on  the  stove  and  put 
about  one  teacupful  of  lard  (butter  is  better)  in  pan.  Season  your 
chicken  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  when  grease  is 


MEATS 


19 


smoking  hot.  place  chicken  in  pan  and  let  stay  until  brown ;  turn  and 
brown  the  other  side.  Then  pour  in  sweet  milk  enough  to  cover  well. 
Place  in  oven  and  cook  one  hour.  If  the  milk  boils  low  and  gravy  be- 
comes too  thick,  add  boiling  water.  I  sometimes  add  a  sliced  onion  just 
before  putting  the  milk  in. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Spalding,  Blum,  Texas. 

STEWED  CHICKEN 
To  one  chicken  add  three-fourths  pound  of  pork  (unless  chicken  is 
very  fat;  if  so,  one-half  pound  of  pork  will  do),  put  on  to  cook  in  cold 
water ;  boil  until  very  tender.  Arrange  so  as  to  have  all  the  water 
boiled  out,  being  careful  not  to  use  too  much  salt.  Rabbit  may  be  cooked 
in  the  same  way. — Mes.  R.  P.  Ubseey,  Starr,  S.  C. 

FRENCH  STYLE  CHICKEN 
Almost  any  sized  chicken  can  be  used,  cut  as  for  frying ;  put  in  a 
pot  or  skillet  in  nearly  enough  fat  to  cover.  Keep  it  turning  until  every 
piece  is  nicely  browned.  Now  cut  up  an  onion,  a  small  potato,  and  add  a 
can  of  tomatoes  and  one  bay  leaf ;  add  enough  flour  after  the  chicken  is 
browned  to  slightly  thicken  the  gravy,  set  where  it  will  slowly  simmer 
until  tender.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mes.  G.  W.  Gleason, 
Oahagan,  La. 

CHICKEN  AND  DUMPLINGS 
Make  dumplings,  kneading  dough  just  as  for  biscuit ;  roll  thin,  cut 
in  strips  and  bake  them  a  very  light  brown.  Next  day,  boil  chicken  ten- 
der, but  not  all  to  pieces ;  while  it  is  boiling  put  in  seasoning,  salt,  pep- 
per and  butter.  When  tender,  take  it  up,  then  pour  in  one  cup  of  rich 
sweet  milk ;  let  come  to  boil,  then  put  in  your  baked  dumplings.  Stir 
one  time,  then  put  in  the  chicken.  Put  the  lid  on  and  set  off. — Mes. 
M.  E.  Chesseb,  Andalusia,  Ala. 

CHICKEN  PIE 
Pastry :  One  quart  of  good  flour,  two  tablespoonsful  of  lard,  salt  and 
cold  water.  Rub  lard  into  flour,  add  salt  and  wet  with  cold  or  ice  water 
into  a  stiff  dough.  Handle  lightly.  Roll  thin  and  line  a  deep  pan,  and 
bake  a  light  brown  (the  same  as  you  would  tart  shells).  Prepare  your 
chicken  as  for  fried  chicken,  unjoint,  salt,  pepper  and  flour,  and  fry  in 
lard  to  a  good  brown  color,  add  hot  water  to  cover  chicken  and  let  boil 
several  minutes,  also  add  a  chopped  onion  and  a  sprig  or  two  of  thyme. 
Pour  your  chicken  into  the  baked  crust  and  cover  with  a  thin  crust  and 
bake  the  top. — Anonymous. 

CHICKEN  PIE 
Prepare  three  chickens  as  for  frying,  then  boil  until  tender.  Have 
eight  boiled  eggs  ready,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  chicken,  a  layer  of  sliced 
eggs,  then  a  thin  crust,  butter,  pepper,  salt,  more  chicken  and  eggs  until 
the  entire  preparation  is  in  the  pan ;  then  put  on  top  crust.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  middle  and  pour  the  juice  of  the  chicken  in.  If  not  covered 
well,  add  sweet  milk  until  it  is  covered.  Put  in  hot  oven  and  bake  thirty 
minutes. — Mes.  W.  E.  Hamilton,  Parkville,  8.  C. 

CHICKEN  PIE 
Take  one  young  fowl,  dress,  cut  in  pieces  and  salt.  Take  a  deep  pan 
and  line  the  sides  with  pastry,  put  a  layer  of  the  chicken  on  the  bottom 
of  the  pan,  then  a  layer  of  pastry,  rolled  thin  and  cut  in  strips  one  by 
four  inches.  Next  a  layer  of  chicken,  then  another  of  pastry,  then 
chicken.  Sprinkle  each  layer  with  pepper  and  butter  cut  into  bits  until 
you  have  used  one-half  pound  of  butter.  Now  cover  well  with  boiling 
water,  then  put  on  crust  of  pastry  rolled  thin,  cut  two  or  three  slits  in 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


middle,  and  put  on  top  of  the  stove  until  you  think  the  chicken  is  done, 
then  put  inside  the  stove  and  let  brown.  "When  taken  out,  if  it  seems  too 
dry,  add  more  boiling  water. — Mss.  J.  R.  Hogg.  LaGrange,  Ga. 

CHICKEN  PIE— NORTHERN  STYLE 
Begin  to  fatten  the  nice,  plump  fowl  one  year  in  advance ;  then, 
after  dressing  and  cooking  very  tender,  season  as  though  for  the  table. 
Place  in  the  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked,  after  removing  all  large 
bones,  and  add  one  quart  of  the  drippings.  Thoroughly  dredge  with 
flour.  Line  the  sides  of  pan  and  cover  with  rich,  thick  pie  crust  Bake 
one  hour. — Louise  S.  Royce,  Camp  Walton,  Fla. 

CHICKEN  PIE 
Take  a  young  frying-size  chicken,  or  smaller  if  preferred,  and  after 
dressing  in  the  usually  approved  way.  put  the  disjointed  parts  in  cold 
water,  sufficient  to  cover  well.  While  this  is  boiling,  the  water  having 
been  well  salted,  make  up  a  rich  dough  with  salt  and  water,  using  about 
one-half  as  much  lard  as  for  pastry.  Line  a  deep  pie  pan,  that  is,  the 
sides,  and  pour  your  chicken  and  dumplings  in ;  season  with  more  salt, 
pepper  to  taste,  and  cover  the  whole  with  a  top  crust,  which  may  be  put 
on  whole  or  in  strips.  Put  a  liberal  amount  of  butter  on  top  and  brown 
in  the  oven.  Be  sure  that  the  pie  has  plenty  of  juice  before  putting  on 
the  top  crust.  Back-bone  is  splendid  prepared  the  same  way. — Miss 
Obie  Manky,  Hogansville,  Gc. 

CHICKEN-OYSTER  PIE 
Select  a  year-old  chicken,  prepare  it  for  cooking  and  let  it  simmer 
until  tender,  in  just  enough  salted  water  to  cover  it  Add  an  onion,  a 
bay  leaf,  a  small  carrot  and  a  stalk  of  celery  to  the  water.  Drain  off  the 
liquor  from  a  quart  of  oysters.  When  the  chicken  is  done,  put  a  layer 
of  it  in  a  deep  dish  which  has  been  lined  around  the  sides  with  a  rich 
crust.  Add  a  layer  of  oysters  and  repeat  until  the  dish  is  full,  seasoning 
each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  oyster  liquor  and  some  of  the 
strained  chicken  gravy  until  the  liquor  is  even  with  the  top  of  the  dish. 
Then  cover  loosely  with  the  crust ;  leave  an  opening  in  the  center  to 
permit  the  steam  to  escape.  Bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Thicken  the  chicken  liquor  with  flour,  rubbed  smoothly  into  an  equal 
amount  of  butter :  add  salt  and  pepper,  if  needed.  Let  boil  five  min- 
utes or  longer,  stirring  all  the  time.  Serve  with  the  pie. — Mbs.  Z.  D. 
Duke,  Cashing,  Texas. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES 
Scald  one  cupful  of  milk,  rub  together  two  teaspoonsful  of  flour  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Stir  in  milk  until  thick.  Take  from  fire  and 
add  one  beaten  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  onion  juice,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Place  on  fire  long  enough  to 
cook  the  egg.  then  take  from  fire  and  add  two  cupsful  of  finely  chopped, 
cooked  chicken.  Put  on  plate  and  let  stand  for  two  hours.  Make  into 
croquettes.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Miss  Katie 
Barks,  Pinola,  Miss. 

JAMBALAYA 

Boil  one  cupful  of  rice  in  four  cupsful  of  water  until  tender,  drain 
and  set  over  boiling  water  fifteen  minutes  ;  put  one  tablespoonful  of  lard 
in  hot  skillet,  sift  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  stir  until  a  deep 
brown ;  add  one  onion,  chopped  fine :  when  onion  is  brown,  add  two 
cupsful  of  cold  chicken,  chopped  fine ;  pour  in  enough  hot  water  to  make 
a  thick  gravy,  stir  in  the  rice,  salt,  pepper  and  remove  from  the  stove  and 


MEATS 


21 


serve  hot.  This  is  a  favorite  Creole  dish  aud  it  really  delicious. — Mbs. 
C.  N.  Kendall,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

A  GOOD  BASIS  FOR  CROQUETTES 
Melt  two  and  a  half  tablespoousful  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan,  add  one- 
third  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  few  grains  of  pepper  mixed  in  five  and 
a  half  tablespoousful  of  flour.  Stir  to  a  snioooth  paste,  add  one  cupful 
of  scalded  milk  and  beat  until  smooth.  Just  bring  to  boiling  point.  This 
is  good  for  any  kind  of  meat  croquettes. — Mrs.  S.  L.  Culvee,  Deats- 
villc,  Ala. 

HOT  TAMALES 
Boil  a  fowl  until  tender,  adding  salt  to  the  water  at  the  end  of  fifteen 
minutes.  When  done  strip  the  meat  from  the  bones,  chop  it  very  fine 
and  season  with  cayenne  and  salt,  adding  a  little  garlic.  Have  ready 
made,  a  thick  paste  of  corn  meal  mush.  Make  the  meat  into  rolls  or 
balls,  encase  each  one  of  them  in  the  corn  meal  paste  and  pack  into  the 
inner  husks  of  Indian  corn,  first  washing  these  in  very  hot  water.  Tie 
the  husk  securely  around  each  ball  and  drop  all  into  the  boiling  liquor 
in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  and  serve  very 
hot. — Mrs.  Z.  D.  Duke,  Cashing,  Texas. 

RICE  PILLAU 

Boil  your  chicken,  beef,  pork,  veal  or  whatever  meat  is  desired,  until 
almost  done,  then  add  the  rice  and  set  on  back  of  stove,  letting  it  simmer 
for  one  hour.  Season  with  salt  and  black  pepper. — Agnes  Adams, 
Auburndale,  Fla. 

GUMBO 

One  chicken,  fried,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  browned  in  lard,  one 
onion  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried,  one  can  of  tomatoes,  twelve  pods  of 
okra,  or  one  can  of  okra.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  A  little  cayenne 
pepper,  not  too  much,  is  good  in  it.  Put  about  two  quarts  of  boiling 
water  in  your  soup  pot  and  add  the  ingredients.  Let  boil  until  chicken  is 
perfectly  tender  and  falls  apart.  Add  more  water  if  necessary.  Serve 
with  rice,  a  tablespoonful  to  each  soup  plate. — Mbs.  J.  M.  Cook,  Ever- 
green, Ala. 

GUMBO 

Any  kind  of  fresh  meat,  though  a  hen  or  turkey  is  best.  Chop  the 
meat  fine ;  if  a  chicken,  break  all  the  bones,  place  the  meat  on  back  of 
the  stove  in  cold  water,  let  it  come  to  boil  slowly.  While  it  is  boiling, 
take  a  cupful  of  lard,  put  it  in  a  pan  and  add  one  cupful  of  flour ;  stir 
constantly  till  flour  is  a  dark  brown,  then  add  water  to  this  and  stir  till 
the  chicken  is  tender,  then  add  a  large  onion,  chopped  fine,  one  can  of 
tomatoes,  or  one  quart  of  fresh  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped  fine.  Let 
all  boil  a  few  minutes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  you  like,  you  may 
add  one  can  of  oysters  or  a  few  fresh  ones.  Use  as  much  water  in  gumbo 
as  you  think  you  will  need. — Mrs.  Susie  P.  Wheat,  Wheat,  Miss. 

CREOLE  GUMBO 
One  small  chicken,  or  four  or  five  birds,  one  onion,  one  tablespoonful 
of  "gumbo  fila,"  or  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  tender  okra  may  be  substi- 
tuted, and  a  tablespoonful  of  bacon  grease.  Fairly  parch  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  in  the  bacon  fat.  Add  chopped  onion,  and  chicken,  cut  up,  with 
a  few  spoonsful  of  boiling  water.  Cover  closely  and  let  steam,  stirring 
and  adding  a  few  spoonsful  of  boiling  water  occasionally  until  meat  is 
ready  to  fall  off  of  bone.  Then  add  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  salt  to  taste,  and  sprinkle  in  "fila,"  stirring  to  prevent  lumping. 
A  little  catsup  is  an  improvement.  Remove  from  fire  as  soon  as  it  boils 
up  well.    If  okra  is  used  it  must  be  added  with  the  chicken.  Oyster 


22 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


gumbo  is  made  by  adding  one  quart  or  a  can  of  canned  oysters  just  be- 
fore "fila."  Cook  in  iron  pot  with  cover. — Mes.  Alex  Scaebobough, 
Biloxi,  Miss. 

SOUTHERN  GUMBO 
For  a  small  family,  take  a  fine  fat  chicken,  dress  and  cut  up  fine ; 
put  in  a  pot  and  let  it  fry  a  light  brown,  put  on  a  handful  of  flour  and 
let  it  brown,  then  add  boiling  water.  Take  dried  sassafras  leaves  and 
grind  them  fine  (if  strong,  one  tablespoonful  is  enough),  add  it  last  all 
together.— Mes.  E.  Thompson,  Bayou  Chicot,  La. 

TO  USE  AN  OLD  FOWL 
Unjoint  and  cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  then  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  put  through  the  food  chopper  as  you  would  sausage  meat 
Make  in  small  cakes  and  fry  in  a  little  lard.  When  browned,  set  skillet 
where  they  will  fry  slowly  till  done.  Keep  closely  covered.  Cook  the 
bones  for  soup  or  stew. — Mes.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

BAKED  TURKEY 
Select  a  nice  fat  turkey  and  dry -pick ;  if  necessary,  singe  by  holding 
over  burning  wrapping  paper.  Take  out  entrails  very  carefully  and  with 
a  damp  cloth  wipe  good  inside  and  out  Put  just  as  little  water  on  it 
as  you  can.  Rub  well  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  black  pepper.  Put 
in  a  cool,  dry  place  for  two  days  before  cooking.  When  ready  to  cook, 
wash  off  salt  with  cold  water,  put  in  baking  pan  or  roaster,  breast  down, 
and  put  roaster  in  hot  oven  with  brisk  fire  and  let  brown  all  over.  Take 
a  half  cupful  of  melted  butter  and  flour  enough  to  make  thin  batter ;  tie 
clean  rag  on  a  stick  and  rub  turkey  all  over.  Pour  a  quart  of  boiling 
water  in  roaster  and  put  on  lid  and  cook  slowly  for  five  or  six  hours, 
basting  with  the  butter  and  flour.  You  will  have  the  true  turkey  flavor. 
— Mes.  W.  H.  Beason,  Gurley.  Ala. 

ROAST  TURKEY 
If  the  weather  is  cold  enough,  dress  the  turkey  a  week  before  time ; 
let  it  hang  on  the  north  side  of  the  house  to  freeze.  To  cook,  place  it  on 
blocks  above  three  inches  of  water  in  a  covered  boiler  and  let  steam  until 
tender.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  stuff  with  dressing.  Lay 
several  pieces  of  pork  on  the  turkey,  place  in  a  roaster  and  bake  brown. 
— Miss  May  Walkeb,  Sugar  Valley,  Ga. 

ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  CHESTNUT  DRESSING 
Make  a  dressing  of  six  cupsful  of  French  chestnuts  which  have  been 
shelled  and  blanched  and  boiled  in  salted  water  until  tender ;  drain  and 
force  through  potato  slicer,  seasoned  with  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one- 
half  cupful  of  cream ;  then  melt  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  mix  with  two 
cupsful  of  cracker  crumbs,  then  combine  the  two  mixtures  together. 
After  stuffing  the  turkey  with  the  above  mixture  make  a  butter  paste  of 
one-third  cupful  of  butter,  one-fourth  cupful  of  flour,  spread  over  the 
body  and  wings.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  until  a  delicate  brown.  Add  two 
cupsful  of  water  to  the  fat  in  the  pan,  basting  every  fifteen  minutes  until 
done. — Mes.  J.  F.  E.,  Panama  City,  Fla. 

MOCK  DUCK 

Soak  stale  bread  in  milk,  squeeze  dry,  add  a  chopped  onion,  which 
has  been  browned  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  diced  celery 
and  two  diced  potatoes,  an  egg  and  a  little  parsley.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
season  to  taste.  Roll  this  mixture  in  a  piece  of  steak,  tie,  and  bake  in 
slow  oven,  basting  from  time  to  time  with  water  and  butter.   If  you  do 


MEATS 


not  wish  to  use  the  steak,  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  pecan  meats  to  the 
above  mixture,  and  place  all  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  cover  and 
bake  slowly.  Add  a  little  milk  from  time  to  time  so  it  will  not  be  too 
dry. — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Lindey,  Whistler,  Ala. 

ROAST  DUCK 

Dress  two  fat  ducks  for  roasting.  Make  dressing  as  follows :  Four 
cupsful  of  stale  light-bread,  over  which  pour  hot  water;  one  onion  and 
the  giblets,  chopped  fine,  one  lump  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
mix  well,  stuff  ducks,  and  sew  up.  Put  in  roaster  with  two  cupsful  of 
hot  water,  let  roast  for  two  hours,  serve  with  mashed  potatoes  and  gravy. 
— Mrs.  Theo.  Jockesch,  Greensboro,  Ala. 

BAKED  RABBIT 
Take  a  nice  young  rabbit,  clean  and  soak  in  salt  water  for  one  hour, 
then  rinse.    Salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  put  in  bread  pan,  spread  with 
butter  and  sprinkle  more  flour  over  it.    Have  enough  hot  sweet  milk  to 
fill  pan  half  full.  Bake  until  tender. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Irby,  Pidcoke,  Texas. 

RABBIT  HAMBURGER 
Boil  a  good-sized  rabbit  until  it  is  tender  enough  to  pull  all  the  meat 
off  the  bones,  and  grind  it  through  a  meat  chopper.  Season  with  salt, 
black  pepper  and  onions.  Put  a  little  water  and  enough  flour  to  make  it 
out  into  fritters  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Brown  on  both  sides,  and  serve  with 
rice  or  bread  and  gravy. — Miss  Arra  Bond,  Dead  Lake,  Miss. 

ROAST  O'POSSUM 
Dress  the  o'possum  by  scalding  and  scraping  like  a  young  pig;  re- 
move the  entrails  and  wash  well,  then  soak  over  night  in  salt  water. 
Parboil  for  fifteen  minutes  in  fresh  salted  water,  then  put  in  roasting 
pan  with  a  cupful  of  water,  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  if  needed.  Place  in 
oven  and  roast  till  tender,  basting  often  with  the  gravy  in  the  pan. 
Serve  with  baked,  sliced  sweet  potatoes,  or  candied  potatoes. — Mrs. 
C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

O'POSSUM— HOW  TO  COOK 
To  one  o'possum  add  a  half  pound  of  pork  and  two  pods  of  red  pep- 
per, boil  until  very  tender,  take  out  of  water,  put  into  pan ;  lay  meat 
on  top  and  sprinkle  with  black  pepper  and  bake  until  brown. — Mrs. 
R.  P.  Ursery,  Starr,  S.  C. 

ROASTED  FISH 
Remove  the  scales  from  a  trout  weighing  four  pounds,  split  the  fish 
in  halves  and  gash  on  each  side.  Have  the  roast  pan  well  cleaned  and 
greased,  put  the  fish  in,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one-half  pound 
of  butter  and  a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon.  Cook  one  hour,  turn  once  or 
twice  during  the  time.  Take  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  or  flour,  one  medium-sized  onion,  chopped 
fine.  Pour  this  over  the  fish  while  hot  and  steam  five  minutes.  Serve 
while  hot.  Most  any  scale  fish  are  good  cooked  this  way. — Mrs.  A.  J. 
McMiciiael,  Hickman,  Miss. 

BAKED  FISH 

Skin  a  large  or  several  medium-sized  fish,  wash,  dry  with  a  clean 
cloth,  and  salt.  Be  sure  that  fish  is  fresh.  Beat  one  or  two  eggs.  Dip 
fish  in  them.  Strew  fish  thick  with  grated  cheese.  Dissolve  one-half 
pound  of  butter  in  a  large  broiling  pan.  put  in  a  few  slices  of  raw  ham. 
Lay  the  fish  in  this,  belly-side  down.    Place  in  baking  compartment  of 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


stove,  bake  about  one  hour  in  moderate  heat,  depending  upon  the  size  of 
fish.  Pour  juice  over  fish  from  time  to  time  while  baking.  Before  you 
take  fish  out  of  baking  pan.  pour  a  cupful  of  sour  cream  over  it.  Leave 
it  to  bake  a  few  minutes  longer.  Take  fish  out  of  the  pan,  being  careful 
not  to  break  it.  Stir  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  in  half  a  cupful  of  beef 
or  chicken  broth.  Stir  this  in  the  fish  juice  for  a  gravy.  Serve  hot  with 
lettuce  and  rolls. — Mrs.  Minna  Andbeae,  Mathis,  Ga. 

BOILED  SALMON 
Take  one  can  of  salmon,  drain  off  oil,  pick  out  the  bones,  and  with  a 
fork  tear  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  pan  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs, 
butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  salmon,  until  all  are  used  up. 
Then  take  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  bits  of  butter,  stir  together, 
pour  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Simmons,  Mathis, 
Texas. 

FISH  CHOWDER 
First,  peel  sis  medium-sized  potatoes  (Irish),  cut  in  dice-shaped 
pieces,  also  one  large  onion.  Cut  your  fish  (which  should  be  fresh  red 
snapper,  though  any  large  fish  may  be  used),  into  convenient  pieces. 
Have  ready  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  cut  two  or  three  slices  of  salt  pork 
into  dice-shaped  pieces,  fry  to  a  crisp,  turn  the  whole  into  a  chowder 
kettle  (or  boiler),  add  one-half  cupful  of  flour,  allow  it  to  brown  well, 
then  add  tomatoes,  potatoes,  onions  and  fish ;  add  one  and  a  half  quarts 
of  boiling  water,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper  (both  black  and  cayenne), 
let  boil  long  enough  to  cook  the  potatoes.  Serve  with  crisp  crackers. — 
Mbs.  H.  A.  Woodruff,  Century,  Fla. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES 
One  bos  of  salmon,  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  sprinkle  of  black  pep- 
per, one  grated  cold  biscuit.   Knead  all  well  together,  make  out  in  small 
biscuit  shape  and  fry  brown  in  very  hot  grease. — Mrs.  Ethel  Ray^or, 
Cottondale,  Ala. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES 
Drain  all  the  water  from  cold  biscuits  which  have  been  soaked  over 
night.    Mix  with  this  a  pint  of  canned  salmon.    Season  with  several 
chopped  onions,  peppers  and  salt.    Make  out  into  balls  and  fry  in  hot 
lard,  mixed  with  butter. — Maggie  Squyres,  Sicily  Island,  La. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES 
One  can  of  salmon,  turned  into  a  vessel  a  little  while  to  air  before 
using.  Use  two-thirds  as  much  rolled  cracker  meal  as  you  have  salmon, 
butter  the  size  of  yolk  of  egg,  melted  in  a  half  cupful  of  water,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Sift  the  rolled  crackers,  mix  the  coarsest  part 
with  the  salmon  and  use  the  fine  part  to  roll  the  croquettes  in.  After 
mixing  thoroughly,  mold  and  roll  in  the  cracker  meal.  Fry  in  hot  lard 
and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Hardy,  Clyde,  Texas. 

FISH  CROQUETTES 
Take  cold  cooked  fish  and  flake  into  very  fine  bits.  To  the  fish  add 
one-half  its  quantity  of  very  fine  bread  crumbs.  Add  a  beaten  egg,  or 
two,  according  to  quantity.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper.  Moisten 
to  the  right  consistency  with  cream,  and  shape  into  croquettes.  Fry  in 
deep  fat.    Serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. — Lula  Howaed,  Canton,  Ga. 

SALMON  CAKES 
Take  a  can  of  salmon,  remove  all  the  bones,  break  the  meat  up  in 
small  pieces,  add  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  or  water,  if  you  have  no  milk ; 


MEATS 


2S 


one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  one  egg,  and  add 
enough  cracker  crumbs  to  make  stiff  enough  so  as  to  make  in  cakes. 
Mix  all  well  together,  fry  the  cakes  a  light  brown  in  part  butter  and  part 
lard. — Miss  Mabtha  Edmundson,  Bay  Minette,  Ala. 

JIMBELLI 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  rice,  picked  and  washed,  one  can  of  salmon 
a  half  cupful  of  bacon  fat,  one  onion.  Add  chopped  onion  to  boiling  fat. 
Let  simmer  and  add  wet  rice.  Cover  closely  and  let  steam  till  tender, 
adding  a  spoonful  of  water  as  it  dries  away,  and  stirring  often.  Salt  and 
add  salmon  ;  cover  again  and  steam  slowly  on  back  of  stove.  When 
cooked  carefully,  rice  grains  should  be  light  and  flaky.  Any  fish,  crabs, 
birds  or  oysters  may  be  steamed  and  substituted  for  salmon.  Cook  in 
iron  pot  with  cover. — Mrs.  Alex  Scarborough,  Biloxi,  Miss. 

CRAB  MEATS  IN  SHELLS 
Select  one  dozen  heavy  crabs,  boil  fifteen  minutes.  When  cool,  pick 
out  the  meat.  Rub  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  with 
three  tablespoonsful  of  soft  butter,  add  juice  of  a  lemon,  salt  to  taste,  a 
little  mustard,  one  easpoonful  of  "kitchen  bouquet,"  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  black  pepper,  and  blend  with  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  crab  meat. 
Add  chopped  whites  of  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  cream  and  two  beaten  eggs. 
Place  in  shells  and  cover  with  cracker  crumbs  with  bits  of  butter  on  top. 
Brown  in  hot  oven  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Frank  Lindsey,  Long 
Beach,  Miss. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL 
To  each  glass  take  six  or  more  fat  oysters.  Add  one  tablespoonful 
of  tomato  catsup,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a 
dash  of  celery  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  horse-radish.  Stir  well  with  a  fork. 
Decorate  top  of  glass  with  lemon  quarters,  sprigs  of  parsley  tops,  and 
chill.— Mas.  W.  D.  Brown,  Hilton  Head,  S.  C. 

FRIED  OYSTERS 
Pick  them  free  from  little  particles  of  shell  which  may  have  adhered 
to  them.  Drain  free  of  liquor,  roll  in  corn  meal  which  has  been  salted 
and  peppered.  Fry  quickly  in  smoking  hot  fat,  deep  enough  to  cover 
them ;  turn  them  once  with  a  spoon  and  lift  into  a  wire  basket  to  drip 
oft  the  fat,  and  serve  hot  with  crackers  and  pepper  sauce. — Mrs.  J.  W 
Allen,  Long  Beach,  Miss. 

TO  STEW  OYSTERS 
Take  a  quart  of  fresh  milk,  put  in  a  sauce  pan  to  come  to  a  boiling 
point.  Drain  a  quart  of  oysters  dry.  Put  a  large  spoon  of  butter  into 
a  frying  pan  and  as  soon  as  this  is  hot,  turn  in  the  oysters.  Lift  them 
around  with  a  spoon  so  the  hot  butter  will  go  through  them.  Season 
with  salt,  black  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  As  soon  as  they  scallop 
turn  them  into  the  hot  milk,  put  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  keep  hot, 
but  not  boil,  and  serve  while  hot.  Into  each  soup  plate  put  a  spoonful 
of  rolled  crackers,  before  dishing  the  oysters. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Allen,  Long 
Beach,  Miss. 

STEWED  OYSTER 
Take  one  quart  of  oysters,  put  the  liquor  in  a  stew  pan,  and  add  half 
as  much  more  water.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  let  it  boil.  Have  the 
oysters  ready  in  a  bowl,  and  the  minute  the  liquor  boils,  pour  in  all  the 
oysters,  say  ten  for  each  person,  or  six  will  do.  Now  wTatch  carefully, 
and  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  boil,  count  just  thirty  seconds,  and  take  oys- 
ters from  the  stove.   Have  dish  ready  with  one  and  a  half  tablespoons- 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


ful  of  cream  or  milk  for  each  person.  Pour  stew  on  this  and  serve  im- 
mediately.—Miss  Daisy  Bell  McMattan,  Loicndesville,  S.  C. 

OYSTER  SHORT-CAKE 
Make  a  good  short-cake,  roll  in  two  pieces,  rather  thin,  bake  in  pie 
tins.  Put  a  quart  of  large  oysters  on  stove  with  a  cupful  or  more  of 
liquor,  a  half  cupful  of  cream  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  When  hot.  stir  in  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  the  cream.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  set  on  back  of  the 
stove  ;  put  in  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  green  onion.  When  cakes  are 
baked,  split  and  spread  oysters  between  and  on  top  as  you  do  for  layer 
cake. — Mes.  Fbaxk  Lindsey,  Long  Beach,  Miss 

BAKED  HASH 

Three  cupsful  of  bread  crumbs  well  mixed  with  one  and  a  half  cups- 
ful  of  cold  meat,  any  kind ;  small  onion,  one  egg.  season  to  taste.  Put 
meat  through  food  cutter  and  mix  all  ingredients  well.  Bake  in  oven 
until  brown. — Mbs.  W.  H.  Holland.  Ninetp-8is,  8.  C. 

BAKED  HASH 

To  two  cupsful  of  cold  boiled  or  baked  beef  that  has  been  ground  in 
food  chopper  or  sausage  mill,  take  one  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  and 
one  onion  the  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  all  together  well,  with  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter,  one  small  cupful  of  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes. — 
Mbs.  J.  T.  Cothan.  league.  Texas. 

BEEF  HASH 

To  three  cupsful  of  beef  add  one  cupful  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  and 
two  onions,  chopped  fine  or  run  through  the  food  chopper ;  sage  and 
pepper  to  taste,  a  large  spoonful  of  lard  and  a  little  suet — not  the  tallow. 
— Mbs.  J.  J.  Woobleb.  Toicnley,  Ala. 

LIVER  HASH 

Cook  until  tender,  hog  or  beef  liver  :  mash  it  up  fine  and  add  two 
tablespoonsful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sage,  pepper  to  suit  taste,  two 
cupsful  of  the  water  where  liver  was  boiled,  and  add  corn  meal  enough 
to  thicken.  Put  it  in  a  pan  and  bake  until  brown. — Mbs.  Minnie  Lam- 
beet.  Manistee,  Ala. 

SOUTHERN  HASH 
Put  through  chopper  six  raw  potatoes,  two  onions,  three  or  four 

green  peppers  and  two  large  tomatoes.  Melt  four  tablespoonsful  of  but- 
ter or  drippings  in  pan  and  add  vegetables  with  one  cupful  of  stock  and 
cook  until  the  potatoes  are  done;  keep  covered  and  stir  occasionally  to 
prevent  burning.  Add  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  chopped  meat,  season 
with  salt,  a  little  black  pepper  and  serve  very  hot  with  toast — Mbs. 
Fbank  Lindsey,  Lona  Beach,  Miss. 

BROWN  STEW 
Put  on  in  water,  beef,  flesh  or  bones  ;  if  bones,  reserve  enough  smooth 
pieces  or  slices  for  a  good  panful,  and  fry  in  lard  as  steak ;  brown  well 
on  each  side,  adding  this  to  bones  in  pot  immediately  after  frying.  Make 
a  cream  gravy  by  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  scirred  smooth  in  a  half 
cupful  of  milk  or  water  to  gravy  in  pan  ;  let  boil  until  brown  and  thick. 
Add  this  also  to  the  meat  in  pot.  Season  with  salt  and  black  pepper  to 
taste,  also  a  bit  of  onion  if  liked ;  let  all  stew  until  tender,  having  only 


MEATS 


27 


water  or  liquor  enough  for  gravy  when  done. — Miss  Sallie  Seaty, 
Barwick,  Oa. 

BEEF  STEW 

Take  two  or  three  pounds  of  beef  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cook  until 
tender,  then  add  six  or  eight  Irish  potatoes,  sliced,  and  half  as  many 
onions.  Cook  twenty-five  minutes  longer.  There  should  be  two  cupsful 
of  gravy  or  stock  when  it  is  done,  which  may  be  thickened  with  a  little 
browned  flour,  if  desired.  Season  to  taste,  when  vegetables  are  added. 
— Mbs.  E.  Sanders,  Scottdale,  Oa. 

BEEF  STEW 

Take  three  or  four  pounds  of  beef,  and  cut  into  small  pieces ;  then 
put  on  in  cold  water.  When  nearly  done,  put  in  a  half  cupful  of  rice, 
six  Irish  potatoes,  an  onion  cut  up  fine,  one  can  of  tomatoes,  and  a  few 
dumplings.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  chili,  and  black  pepper.  Chicken 
dressed  and  cut  up  as  for  frying  may  be  used  in  place  of  beef. — Mks. 
Ed.  Richardson,  Tenaha,  Texas. 

BEEF  STEW 

Take  a  small  onion,  cut  fine,  four  medium-sized  potatoes,  cut  in  dice- 
like pieces,  cook  until  nearly  done  in  the  water  where  you  cooked  the 
beef,  then  add  one  full  pint  of  cooked  beef  scraps  and  one  pint  of  toma- 
toes, pepper  and  salt.  Cook  about  ten  minutes  longer  and  serve  in  small 
dishes  with  crackers. — Mrs.  A.  C.  Cole,  Mountain  City,  Tenn. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 
Put  into  cold  water  about  one  pound  each  of  beef  and  pork,  season 
to  taste  with  red  pepper  and  salt,  boil  until  very  tender,  then  add  about 
one  pound  of  cabbage  (cut  fine),  one  can  each  of  tomatoes,  corn  and 
okra  ;  cook  until  it  begins  to  get  quite  thick,  add  good-sized  piece  of  but- 
ter and  serve  quite  hot.  This  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  scraps  of  meat 
and  vegetables  ;  the  quantity  varying  to  suit  what  you  have  on  hand.  A 
fried  chicken,  with  rich,  brown  gravy,  stirred  into  this,  when  all  is  quite 
done,  makes  a  fine  addition  to  it  and  a  dinner  "fit  for  a  king." — Mrs. 
J.  J.  Pluss,  Laurens,  8.  C. 

IRISH  STEW 

Take  three  slices  of  salt  pork,  put  in  iron  pot  and  brown,  then  add 
one  quart  of  sliced  potatoes  and  three  pints  of  water ;  salt  and  pepper ; 
boil  until  potatoes  fall  to  pieces,  then  add  flavoring,  butter  the  size  of  a 
hickory  nut,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  of  lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  water  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff 
batter.  As  soon  as  done  (fifteen  minutes),  prick  each  dumpling  with  a 
fork  to  keep  from  falling. — Miss  Emma  Pettit,  Traskwood,  Ark. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well,  add  four  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar. 
Mix  thoroughly  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  salt 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Add  this  to  eggs  and  vinegar;  then 
butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  mixture 
is  thick.  Let  cool  and  when  ready  to  use,  you  can  thin  it  with  a  half 
cupful  of  whipped  cream. — Anonymous. 

DRESSING 

Mix  together  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  dash  of 
red  pepper;  stir  in  a  half  cupful  or  vinegar  and  three-fourths  cupful  of 
water.    Then  boil  until  creamy.    Pour  while  hot  over  the  beaten  yolks 


2$ 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  three  eggs,  stirring  hard  all  the  time.  Last,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  little  bits  at  a  time. — Mbs.  E.  B.  Holland.  Pecan,  Miss. 

MUSTARD  DRESSING 
Mix  •well  the  yellow  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  cup  of  vinegar.    Cook  until  thick. — Mbs.  J.  E.  Bbowxlee. 
BrownJee,  S.  C. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 
Use  two-thirds  oil  to  one-third  vinegar.  For  every  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  and  two  of  oil,  take  a  half  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Mix  the  salt  and  pepper  with  the  oil  and 
add  the  vinegar  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while,  until  it  becomes  white  and 
a  little  thickened.  The  dressing  must  be  used  or  served  at  once  or  it  will 
separate. — Mbs.  Fbank  Abnold,  Iva,  S.  G. 

SAUCE  FOR  MEAT 
One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  fat  taken  from  soup, 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stir  in  frying  pan  over  fire  till  quite 
brown,  add  broth  or  water,  slowly  stir  all  the  while  to  make  it  smooth, 
then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  onion,  nutmeg  or  anything  desired. — 
Mbs.  W.  F.  Bebnhabdt,  Olney,  Texas. 

CHICKEN  DRESSING 
Bake  a  small  hoecake  of  corn  meal,  using  two  tablespoonsful  of  lard 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  When  this  is  cooked,  crumble  it  finely  into  a  bowl, 
and  add  one  cupful  of  cold  cooked  rice  or  cold  biscuit  crumbs.  Then  stir 
into  this  four  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  goose  egg,  one  small 
onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and 
enough  of  the  stock  where  the  fowl  has  been  cooked  to  make  a  mass  of 
thin  batter.  Lay  fowl  in  a  well  greased  pan,  and  pour  dressing  around 
it,  and  bake  a  nice,  rich  brown,  turning  fowl  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning.  When  it  is  served,  slice  two  or  more  boiled  eggs  and  place  on 
top  of  dish,  and  if  possible,  serve  while  warm.  This  is  very  delicious 
and  very  easy  to  prepare.  Can  be  used  in  cooking  pork  if  desired. — 
Mbs.  C.  C.  Bakeb,  Ozark,  Ala. 

CHICKEN  DRESSING 
Take  one  quart  of  crumbled  cold  biscuit,  one  teacupful  of  crumbled 
muffin  bread,  or  if  none  on  hand,  make  a  batter  bread  with  buttermilk 
and  soda  of  four  to  one  parts  flour  and  meal,  well  shortened ;  when 
cooked  done,  crumble  this,  add  a  small  onion,  and  several  sprigs  of  pars- 
ley, minced.  Pour  over  this  enough  of  the  rich  top  of  water  in  which 
fowl  has  been  boiled  to  soften.  Add  now  from  two  to  six  eggs,  black 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste  and  butter  as  desired.  Have  stiff  enough  to 
drop  from  spoon.  Spread  over  the  well-browned  fowl  after  filling  the 
cavity. — Mbs.  G.  A.  Taylob.  Bolingbroke,  Ga. 

MUSH  DRESSING 
One  quart  of  turkey  or  chicken  broth,  thicken  with  equal  parts  of 
corn  meal  and  shorts,  cook  for  thirty  minutes  before  taking  off  the  stove  ; 
add  a  little  sage  and  onion,  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  a  piece  of  butter 
and  three  or  four  well-beaten  eggs.  Serve  hot  with  gravy  over  it — 
Mbs.  L.  O.  Ashley,  Honea  Path,S.  G. 

WILD  GOOSE  DRESSING 
This  recipe  may  be  used  for  any  large  fowl :  One  tablespoonful  each 
of  butter,  sage  and  chopped  onion,  one  egg,  giblets,  well-cooked  and 


MEATS 


20 


chopped,  with  the  soup  from  theui ;  three  medium-sized  cakes  of  corn 
bread,  and  three  cupsful  of  rice,  cooked ;  moisten  well  with  liquor  from 
baked  goose,  stir  in  other  ingredients,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  stuff  in 
the  hot  goose,  and  bake  in  oven  one-half  hour.  Set  on  platter  and  put 
on  the  table.  It  is  perfectly  delicious. — Mrs.  E.  H.  Mackenzie,  Lake 
Charles,  La. 

CHICKEN  DRESSING 
The  bread  is  to  be  two  or  three  days  old,  two-thirds  cold  biscuit,  one- 
third  corn  bread  or  corn  meal  muffins ;  grind  in  the  food  chopper,  sea- 
son with  black  pepper,  salt,  and  add  two  cans  of  oysters,  fresh  ones  will 
do  if  you  have  them.  If  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  is  not  sufficient  to 
moisten,  sweet  milk  or  warm  water  will  do.  I  always  just  have  enough 
water  left  in  the  steamer  for  gravy.  Brown  on  both  sides  and  make  the 
gravy.  Boil  two  eggs  for  it.  Mash  the  yolks  smooth  and  add  the  whites, 
cut  in  rings.  If  eggs  are  plentiful,  boil  hard  one  dozen  and  cut  in  halves 
to  place  around  the  chicken  after  it  is  put  in  a  large  flat  dish  for  the 
table. — Mrs.  LeVert  Shivers,  Norwood,  Ga. 

CHICKEN  DRESSING 
To  two  cupsful  of  corn  bread  crumbs  add  one  cupful  of  biscuit 
crumbs,  and  one-half  cupful  of  pecans,  a  little  onion,  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  over  this  enough  of  chicken  stock  to  make  soft.  Add  the  yolk  of 
one  egg  and  stir  in  well  and  then  the  well-beaten  white.  Bake  quickly 
a  nice  brown  in  hot  oven  and  you  will  have  a  light,  delicious  dressing. 
Stuff  chicken  with  the  same. — Mrs.  J.  B.  E.  Erwin,  Fairmount,  Ga. 

EGG  GRAVY 

Beat  up  two  eggs,  add  a  little  cold  water  and  beat  in  enough  flour  to 
make  a  smooth  paste,  put  a  quart  of  hot  water  in  a  pan  on  the  stove  and 
stir  the  above  in  it.  Then  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  butter  ana*  cream. — 
Miss  Eva  Eldred,  Foley,  Ala. 

FLOUR  GRAVY 
Put  two  tablespoonsful  of  pork  grease  in  a  frying  pan  and  stir  in 
enough  flour  to  soak  up  the  grease.   Cook  until  a  dark  brown.   Then  add 
cold  water,  and  stir  until  thick.    Add  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste. — 
Miss  Eva  E.  Eldred,  Foley,  Ala. 

SARDINE  GRAVY 
Get  two  cans  of  sardines,  put  them  in  a  skillet  and  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  lard ;  let  the  sardines  get  hot  in  this,  and  then  add  enough 
hot  water  to  make  the  amount  desired.    Thicken  with  flour  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper. — Mrs.  M.  T.  Skoden,  Gopeland,  Ala. 


30 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


VEGETABLES 


BROWNED  IRISH  POTATOES 
Boil  six  or  eight  nice-sized  potatoes  until  tender,  peel  and  place  in  a 
fryer  that  contains  a  little  hot  grease,  cover  them  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Mitchell,  Slate 
Spring,  Miss. 

BAKED  IRISH  POTATOES 
Take  eight  or  more  good-sized  boiled  potatoes,  mash  up  fine,  season 
to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  and  add  four  or  five  eggs.   Put  in 
stove  and  bake. — Mrs.  W.  C.  McMurry,  Canon,  Ga. 

POTATOES  AU  GRATIN 
Sliced  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  a  greased  baking  dish.    Sprinkle  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  generous  amount  of  grated  cheese ;  add  another  layer 
of  potatoes,  then  the  grated  cheese.    Pour  milk  over  all  and  cover  with 
chunks  of  butter.   Bake. — Mrs.  Frank  Doeland,  Anona,  Fla. 

IRISH  POTATOES  IN  TWO  WAYS 
Take  a  quart  of  mashed  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  one  or  more  eggs.  Mix,  put  in 
basing  pan,  mark  across  with  fork,  and  bake.  Season  the  potatoes  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  make  into  balls,  beat  two  eggs  and  add  a  little  water. 
Dip  balls  in  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Tyner,  Williston,  Fla. 

IRISH  POTATOES  AND  CHEESE 
Boil  Irish  potatoes  in  the  jacket,  peel,  slice  thin  on  dish  you  wish 
to  serve  potatoes  at  table ;  sprinkle  grated  cheese  thickly  over  potatoes, 
with  a  dash  of  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  ;  pour  over  this  enough  of  sweet 
milk  to  moisten  potatoes  well.  Place  in  oven  until  cheese  melts.  Serve 
hot — Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  S.  C. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

Slice  about  eight  medium-sized  potatoes,  add  water  and  boil  until 
done ;  mash  well,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  a  small  onion,  chopped  fine.  Now  put  in  enough  cream  or 
sweet  milk  to  make  thin  enough  to  beat  well.  Beat  until  light  and 
creamy. — Mrs.  Claudia  Ozley,  Arcadia,  La. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 
Take  four  large  potatoes,  boil  until  real  tender,  mash  fine  through 
a  grape  seeder,  take  one  small  cup  of  cream,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  a  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  put  on 
the  stove  to  boil,  then  add  to  the  potatoes  while  hot,  beating  hard,  and 
serve  hot. — Mrs.  L.  O.  Ashley,  Honea  Path,  S.  C. 

PANNED  POTATOES 
Pare  and  slica  Irish  potatoes  lengthwise,  one-fourth  ineh  tbiek ;  put 
some  melted  lard  or  drippings  in  a  large  baking  pan,  put  In  the  potatoes, 


VEGETABLES 


sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  so  that  each  piece  receires  a  little 
of  the  grease ;  then  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  till  done  and  well 
browned. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

POTATO  PUFF 
One  cupful  of  either  cold  boiled  or  mashed  potatoes,  mix  thoroughly 
with  a  lump  of  butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  very  thin  batter.    Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.   Bake  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Williams,  Whitehouse,  Fla. 

IRISH  POTATO  PUFF 
Pare  and  boil  four  potatoes  the  size  of  a  goose  egg ;  while  they  boil 
put  into  another  vessel  a  half  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  good  butter ;  let  it  just  come  to  the  boiling  point,  then  take 
off  the  stove  to  cool.  When  potatoes  are  soft,  drain  off  water  and  mash 
as  fine  as  possible,  then  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  sprinkle  of 
black  pepper  and  the  scalded  milk,  and  beat  five  minutes.  Then  add, 
one  at  a  time,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beating  all  the  time  until  each 
one  is  beaten  in.  Then  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  and  beat  to  a 
stiff  foam  all  together.  Fold  them  into  the  mixture,  pour  into  a  well- 
greased  baking  dish  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve 
in  same  dish  as  a  vegetable. — Mrs.  D.  D.  McCall,  Pushmataha,  Ala. 

SCALLOPED  POTATO 
Line  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  cracker  crumbs.  Put  in  a  layer  of 
sliced  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  onions,  and  lastly  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  small  piece  of  butter. 
Continue  in  this  way  until  dish  is  nearly  full,  having  cracker  crumbs 
on  the  top.  Pour  over  enough  milk  to  cover  and  bake  one  hour.  Have 
the  top  well  browned. — Mrs.  Mabelle  A.  Warden,  Elkton,  Fla. 

IRISH  POTATO  CAKES 
Boil  and  mash  one  large  potato,  add  a  half  cupful  of  fresh  milk,  one 
egg,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter,  salt  to  taste,  and  fry  in  hot 
grease. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Donaldson,  Charlotte,  N.  C. 

POTATO  BALLS 
Take  mashed  potatoes,  one  pint,  two  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  swett 
milk,  pepper,  a  half  pint  of  flour ;  mix  and  fry  in  hot  lard  in  spoonful 
drops. — Mrs.  Theo.  Jockesch,  Greensboro,  Ala. 

IRISH  POTATO  PIE 
Peel  and  slice  potatoes  and  cover  with  salt  water.  Let  cook  until 
nearly  done  on  stove.  Line  a  deep  pan  with  rolled  dough,  put  in  a  layer 
of  potatoes,  sprinkle  pepper  over  them  and  put  pieces  of  butter  about 
over  it;  then  a  layer  of  dumplings,  another  layer  of  potatoes,  pepper 
and  butter ;  lastly,  a  crust  over  top  as  for  any  pot  pie.  Put  water  in  it, 
and  when  nearly  done  add  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  through  hole  in  top. 
— Mrs.  J.  B.  Tynee,  Williston,  Fla. 

IRISH  POT  PIE 
Slice  sweet  bacon  or  pork  very  thin  and  put  on  in  a  small  amount  of 
water  to  boil.  Cook  until  tender.  Have  pared  and  sliced  equal  amounts 
of  potatoes  and  onions ;  when  meat  is  nearly  done,  add  potatoes,  then 
onions  on  top;  cover  and  simmer  until  oniona  are  nearly  done.  Season 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.   Put  about  two  layers  of  dumplings  on  toy 


32 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  let  in  stove  and  brown,  or  cover  tightly  and  simmer  until  done. — 

Mbs.  G.  T.  Penny,  Independence,  Texas. 

SWEET  POTATOES  FRIED 
Boil  sweet  potatoes,  not  enough  to  mash ;  peel  and  slice,  put  in  dish 
and  sprinkle  each  layer  generously  with  sugar ;  put  a  little  lard  in  pan 
when  hot.   Fry  a  nice  brown. — Mbs.  J.  B.  Tyneb,  Williston,  Fla. 

MASHED  BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES 
Peel  and  wash  four  nice-sized  potatoes,  slice  thin  as  for  frying,  put 
in  stew  pan  and  cover  well  with  boiling  water.  Let  boil  until  tender, 
then  drain  and  mash  very  fine.  Add  two  tablespoonsful  of  cream,  one- 
half  cupful  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Beat  hard  for  about  five  minutes,  then  put  in  a  tin  pie  plate  and 
smooth  in  a  nice  mound.  Make  a  hole  in  center  of  mound  and  put  in 
another  piece  of  butter,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  sugar.  Place  in  oven 
and  bake  until  outside  is  a  nice  brown. — Mbs.  T.  B.  Gbaves,  Oold- 
thwaite,  Texas. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES 
Pare  and  slice  potatoes,  slicing  a  little  thicker  than  for  dressed  pota- 
toes. If  wanted  brown  and  crisp,  have  lard  or  cooking  oil  hot  enough 
to  fry  when  laid  in.  If  potatoes  are  wanted  soft,  have  lard  not  so  hot. 
Cover  and  let  fry,  turning  so  as  to  fry  on  both  sides.  Remove  from  lard 
as  soon  as  done. — Sallie  J.  Cabmical,  Turin,  Oa. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 
My  favorite  way  of  cooking  sweet  potatoes  is  to  "candy"  them.  Se- 
lect average-sized  potatoes,  wash  clean  and  peel  as  many  as  you  desire, 
then  cut  in  narrow  strips,  two  inches  long  and  one-fourth  inch  thick. 
Boil  slowly  with  a  little  water,  sugar,  and  the  desired  flavoring,  until 
tender.  Always  put  in  enough  sugar  to  make  the  pieces  of  potatoes  have 
a  sticky,  candied  appearance  when  done.  Cook  slowly,  and  with  enough 
water  to  prevent  scorching. — Mbs.  Sidney  Haebison,  Marietta,  S.  C. 

HOW  TO  COOK  RICE 
Put  three  teacupsful  of  water  on  stove,  with  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  half  as  much  lard.    Then  wash  one  cupful  of  rice,  rubbing 
briskly  through  the  hands  until  the  water  is  clouded.    Put  in  the  hot 
water.    Never  stir. — Mbs.  T.  E.  Nobris,  Tuscaloosa,  Ala. 

FRIED  RICE 

Wash  one  cupful  of  rice;  put  in  frying  pan  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard.  When  hot,  add  rice,  stirring  constantly  until  slightly  browned, 
then  add  one-fourth  can  of  tomatoes,  one  small  sliced  onion,  two  cloves, 
garlic,  mashed  to  a  pulp  with  a  little  water,  adding  one  quart  of  water, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  without  stirring  until  dry.  Cook  thirty 
minutes. — Mbs.  J.  R.  Simmons,  Mathis,  Texas. 

RICE  AND  ONIONS 
Wash  one  cupful  of  rice,  put  in  an  enamel  ware  pan,  add  enough 
water  to  cook  rice  tender.   Take  one  onion,  size  of  an  egg,  and  slice  and 
add  to  rice,  season  with  butter  or  lard  size  of  walnut,  salt  to  suit  taste 
and  add  some  black  pepper. — Mbs.  Annie  Butleb,  Helmic,  Texas. 

RICE  AND  TOMATOES 
Take  one  cupful  of  rice,  cook  until  tender,  and  add  one  ean  of  toma- 
toes, or  two  »r  three  ripe  «nes,  let  e*ek  till  tcm&ttes  are  deae,  aid  sre*- 


VEGETABLES 


33 


sou  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  in  either  butter  or  lard,  about  one  table- 
spoonful. — Mbs.  M.  T.  Skoden,  Copelayid,  Ala. 

RICE  (SOUTHERN  STYLE) 
For  six  rice  eaters,  take  one  teacupful  of  whole  grain  rice,  wash  thor- 
oughly, rubbing  it  between  the  hands ;  rinse  and  cover  it  with  water. 
Let  stand  for  half  an  hour.  An  hour  before  it  is  to  be  served,  put  two 
cupsful  of  water  into  a  sauce  pan,  having  a  close-fitting  lid,  add  a  round- 
ed teaspoonful  of  salt  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Drain  your  rice,  add 
it  to  the  salted  boiling  water,  boil  violently  with  lid  on  for  fifteen  min- 
utes. Remove  lid,  and  with  a  fork  gently  mound  the  rice  in  the  center 
of  the  sauce  pan,  leave  the  lid  off  for  fifteen  minutes  with  the  sauce  pan 
on  the  back  of  stove.  With  the  fork  tear  down  your  mound,  replace  the 
lid,  and  put  the  sauce  pan  as  far  back  on  the  stove  as  possible.  The  rice 
will  be  grainy  and  delicious  and  will  contain  every  bit  of  its  food  value. 
Never  use  a  spoon. — Mrs.  E.  T.  C,  South  Carolina. 

RICE  WITH  TOMATOES 
Cook  one  cupful  of  rice  until  tender.   Add  an  equal  amount  of  stewed 
tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  black  pepper,  and  butter  or  bacon  gravy, 
if  liked.    You  can  vary  this  with  chopped  onion  and  celery  flavoring ; 
also  use  cooked  okra. — Mbs.  L.  O.  Bbowne,  Tuscaloosa,  Ala. 

RICE  PIE 

Boil  a  chicken  several  hours  in  enough  water  to  make  one  pint  of 
rich  stock,  seasoning  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  onion.  Take  a  pint 
of  rice  and  boil  as  for  the  table.  Mix  while  hot  with  the  chicken  stock, 
beat  in  three  or  four  eggs,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  half  an  hour  or  more 
in  a  quick  oven  and  serve  in  the  same  pan  in  which  it  is  baked.  Garnish 
with  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  The  meat  of  the 
chicken  may  be  used  for  salad,  croquettes,  etc.,  or  if  an  especially  nice 
pie  is  wanted,  chop  the  meat  and  add  to  the  rice  pie  before  baking. — 
Jennie  H.  Holman,  St.  Matthews,  S.  C. 

CORN  PUDDING 
Take  two  cupsful  of  canned  corn,  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  two  cups- 
ful of  milk,  mixed  with  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  pudding  pan  and  bake  about 
twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  as  a  vegetable.  This  is  a  great  favorite  with 
the  Scandinavians. — Mrs.  E.  C.  Cedarholm,  Marine  Mills,  Minn. 

CORN  CHOWDER 
Brown  together  one-half  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  into  dice,  and  two 
chopped  onions,  then  place  in  kettle  with  two  diced  Irish  potatoes  and 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  tender,  then  add  cup- 
ful of  milk  and  a  can  of  corn,  seasoning,  and  a  slice  of  butter.  Have 
some  crackers  in  a  dish  and  pour  the  chowder  over  them  and  serve  hot. 
— Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Lindey,  Whistler,  Ala. 

STEWED  CORN 
Husk  corn,  draw  sharp  knife  down  each  row  of  grains,  press  out  the 
pulp  with  the  back  of  the  knife.  To  one  pint  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  dash  of  pepper,  a  half  cupful  of 
cream  or  rich  milk.  Heat  and  simmer  ten  minutes. — Mrs.  F.  M.  Pitts, 
Anniston,  AU. 

FRIED  RIPE  TOMATOES 
Select  firm  tomatoes,  wash  well  and  core.   Cut  in  slices  about  one- 
fourth  inch  thick.    Cover  both  aides  with  flour  or  corn  meal-    Put  ou« 


34 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


layer  in  the  frying  pan,  when  lard  is  real  hot.  Keep  a  steady  heat  or  the 
tomatoes  will  stew  instead  of  fry.  When  the  tomatoes  get  brown,  turn 
over  on  the  other  side  to  brown.  When  done,  take  out  and  lay  on  a  long 
flat  dish.  Then  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  pan  and  about  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour ;  stir  well.  When  it  begins  to  brown,  salt  and  stir  in  sweet 
milk  until  it  becomes  thick  as  cream.  Then  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes. 
— Maude  McMichael,  Charlotte,  N.  C. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 
Take  four  large  green  tomatoes,  slice  very  thin,  sprinkle  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  salt  over  tomatoes,  and  let  stand  one  hour ;  then  sprinkle 
with  corn  meal  and  fry  brown. — Mbs.  J.  S.  Briscoe,  Haleyville,  Ala. 

GREEN  TOMATOES 
Wash  and  peel  two  dozen  tomatoes,  chop ;  pour  in  skillet  that  has 
had  two  tablespoonsful  of  grease  put  in  it  and  is  now  hot.  Cover  tightly, 
stir  occasionally ;  when  the  water  is  almost  fried  out,  add  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  and  set  on  back  of  the  stove  to  simmer  a  few 
minutes.    Serve  hot. — Miss  Eula  Wilder,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

TOMATO  HOTS 
Mince  one  or  two  onions  very  fine  and  put  on  in  a  sauce  pan  with  a 
half  cupful  of  good  vinegar  to  cook  for  a  few  minutes.    Let  cool,  and 
add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  sweet  pepper  and  two  large  tomatoes, 
minced  fine. — Mrs.  L.  M.  Yarbsough,  Cartersville,  Ga. 

STEWED  TOMATOES 
To  one-half  gallon  of  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes,  add  sugar  to  make 
quite  sweet,  season  with  a  small  quantity  of  black  pepper,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  prepared  bread  erurnbs  or  crackers ;  stir  all  well  together,  pour 
into  a  porcelain  pudding  pan  and  stew  or  cook  down  quite  low  near  the 
preserving  point.  Place  in  the  oven  a  short  while  before  serving. — MBS. 
Z.  D.  Duke,  Cushing,  Texas. 

STEWED  TOMATOES 
Scald  some  firm  tomatoes  and  peel  of?  the  skin,  place  in  a  stew  pan 
and  cook  slowly  with  a  little  water.    When  tender  whip  them  fine  and 
season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  flour  or  corn-starch  to  thick- 
en.  Serve  while  hot. — Mrs.  A.  J.  McMichael,  Hickman,  Miss. 

COOKED  TOMATOES 
To  a  pint  of  tomatoes,  add  one  cupful  of  water  and  one  small  onion. 
Let  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then  mix  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  thick- 
ened with  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour.    Season  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt  Let  boil  until  thick. — Nettie  Boyd,  Flotcery  Branch,  Ga. 

CREAMED  TOMATOES 
Let  one  quart  of  canned  or  fresh  tomatoes  come  to  a  boil,  then  add 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  soda.  Mix  all  together  well  with  a  little  cold  milk 
to  a  smooth  paste.  Let  boil  up  once,  then  add  one  cupful  of  thick,  sweet 
cream,  and  when  heated  through,  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Lough- 
bidge,  LaFayette,  Ga. 

TOMATO  NUTORA 
Two  cupsful  of  strained  tomato  juice,  one  cupful  of  flour,  two  cups- 
ful  of  peanut  butter;  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  grated  onion  may  be 
added.    Mix  well  and  pour  in  a  large  tomato  can  and  place  can  in  a 


Vegetables 


35 


larger  vessel  of  water,  and  steam  ihree  01  four  hours,  or  until  firmly  set. 
When  done  remove  from  the  can  and  you  have  a  delicious  vegetable 
cheese. — Mrs.  A.  IT.  Robertson,  Griffin,  Fla. 

BAKED  BEANS 
Soak  beans  over  night ;  drain,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  pinch 
of  soda,  parboil,  and  drain  again.  Place  two  tomatoes  (or  half  a  can), 
a  chopped  onion,  a  few  cloves,  a  few  celery  seed,  a  tablespoonful  of 
molasses  in  a  stew  pan  to  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  then  strain  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Now  put  some  bacon  or  pork  chops  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish  (stone),  and  then  the  beans.  Over  all  pour  the  prepared 
liquid,  enough  to  cover.  Bake  about  two  hours,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  beans  used. — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Lindey,  Whistler,  Ala. 

BAKED  BEANS 
Soak  one  quart  of  navy  beans  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  parboil.  Pour  off  this  water  and 
rinse  well ;  then  put  on  more  water,  and  boil  for  an  hour;  then  add  one 
teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  four  tablespoonsful  of 
molasses,  and  boil  ror  half  an  hour  longer,  or  until  quite  tender.  Cut 
three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  bacon  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  until  done, 
but  not  crisp.  Make  a  sauce  of  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  and  two 
tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  worked  smooth ;  then 
add  it  to  one  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  cook  until  thickened.  Put  into  the 
bean  crock,  first,  a  layer  of  beans,  then  a  layer  of  bacon,  then  a  layer  of 
sauce,  and  repeat  the  layers  until  all  have  been  used,  having  a  layer  of 
sauce  on  top.  Lastly,  pour  over  all  the  fat  from  the  bacon,  or  part  of 
it,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. — Mrs.  L.  D.  Robin- 
son, Velasco,  Texas. 

BAKED  BEANS 
Soak  one  quart  of  white  beans  over  night;  while  getting  breakfast 
parboil  until  skin  breaks  when  taken  from  the  water.  Place  in  bean 
pot  or  closely  covered  vessel ;  put  about  a  half  pound  of  bacon  in 
middle  of  pot,  so  that  meat  will  be  level  with  beans.  Add  two  table- 
spoonsful of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  cover  witu  boiling  water.  Bake  in 
slow  oven  six  to  eight  hours,  adding  hot  water  if  they  become  too  dry. 
Serve  with  brown  bread  and  tomato  sauce,  or,  when  beans  are  about  half 
cooked,  add  one  cupful  of  tomatoes  and  let  bake  into  beans. — Mrs.  Chap. 
G.  Medlin,  Salisbury,  N.  C. 

BAKED  BEANS 
Wash  and  soak  one  quart  of  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning  put 
on  to  boil  in  cold  water;  let  them  boil  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  then 
dip  them  out  of  the  water  they  were  boiled  in  and  put  them  in  a  pan  or 
bean  pot  Put  a  half  cupful  of  molasses,  a  spoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch 
of  ginger,  and  about  a  half  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  on  the  top  of  the 
beans ;  then  fill  the  pan  with  boiling  water,  put  in  the  oven,  cover 
tight,  and  let  them  bake  all  day,  occasionally  adding  hot  water  so  they 
do  not  get  too  dry,  although  they  should  not  be  very  juicy  when  done. — 
Mrs.  W.  R.  Parker,  Woodruff,  S.  C. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 
Soak  five  cupsful  of  white  beans  over  night.  In  the  morning  wash 
thoroughly,  put  in  the  bean  jar,  then  add  about  a  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
bacon,  sliced,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  tablespoonful  of  syrup,  a 
dash  of  black  pepper;  add  cold  water  until  't  stands  about  two  inches 
above  the  beans.   After  they  begin  cooking,  keep  them  just  covered  with 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


water  until  done ;  bake  eight  hours.  Do  not  stir  while  cooking,  and  let 
the  water  cook  down  when  they  are  nearly  ready  to  remove  from  the 
oven. — Mks.  Cabl  O.  Svendsen,  Brunswick,  Oa. 

BEAN  STEW 

String  and  snap  about  two  quarts  of  wax  beans.  Wash  and  put  them 
on  to  boil  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork.  Cut  one  pod  of  okra  up  fine  and 
put  in  before  they  begin  to  boil.  Cook  down  until  nearly  all  the  liquor 
is  out,  when  they  should  be  ready  for  eating. — Miss  Abba  Bond,  Dead 
Lake,  Miss. 

BROWN  OR  MEXICAN  BEANS 
Soak  two  cupsful  of  beans  over  night,  boil  tender  with  bacon ;  add 
salt,  a  little  sugar,  pinch  of  soda,  two  large  pods  of  chili  pepper,  one 
teaspoonful  of  chili  powder,  enough  cayenne  pepper  to  make  real  hot. 
Beans  prepared  like  this  take  the  place  of  chili  in  a  most  substantial 
way.  This  is  good  on  cold  days,  served  with  hot  skillet  bread  and  home- 
made pickled  beets. — Mbs.  J.  Edna  White,  Eempner,  Texas. 

CABBAGE  (FRIED) 
Take  a  fresh  head  of  cabbage,  cut  it  fine  in  a  large  pan  ;  sprinkle  one 
tablespoonful  of  salt  over  cabbage,  take  both  hands  and  knead  down.  If 
cabbage  is  fresh,  there  will  be  enough  water  to  cook  it.  Have  ready 
some  fat  where  meat  has  been  cooked,  or  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
Stir  often  to  keep  from  burning. — Mbs.  H.  J.  Gbaulee,  Dora,  Ala. 

BAKED  CABBAGE 
Chop  one-half  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  boil  until  tender  in  salted 
water.  When  done,  drain  and  put  in  alternate  layers  of  cabbage  and 
cracker  crumbs,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  butter.  When  baking  dish  is 
almost  full,  pour  over  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream  and  bake  until  brown. 
— Miss  Blaib  Allen,  Bryant,  Ark. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE 
One  head  of  cabbage,  cut  fine  as  for  slaw ;  place  in  pan  and  set  on 
stove ;  let  it  get  hot  and  then  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  rapidly 
twenty  minutes,  if  young  and  tender ;  otherwise,  thirty  minutes.  Drain 
dry  and  pour  over  it  a  cupful  of  rich  milk  or  cream  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  flour,  rubbed  smooth,  in  it,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  boil  up  and  serve.  This  will  not  disagree  with 
a  weak  stomach  and  is  especially  nice  in  the  spring  with  young  cabbage, 
as  it  tastes  very  much  like  asparagus. — Mks.  E.  Sandebs,  Scottdale,  Ga. 

CREOLE  CABBAGE 
Take  one  medium-sized  cabbage,  five  large  tomatoes,  seed  removed, 
and  three  small  onions,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Then  take  four  or 
five  good  slices  of  fat  bacon  and  fry  till  brown  and  crisp ;  after  the  pieces 
of  bacon  are  taken  out,  drop  above  ingredients  into  the  boiling  grease, 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  boiling  water.  Cover  and 
steam  till  done. — Mbs.  D.  D.  McCall,  Pushmataha,  Ala. 

GERMAN  CABBAGE 
An  easy  and  simple  way  of  preparing  cabbage  is  to  take  a  small  head 
and  cut  fine.  Put  on  the  stove  in  a  granite  kettle  one  tablespoonful  of 
lard  and  one  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  hot  water ;  salt  to  taste.  Then 
put  cabbage  in  kettle  and  cook  slowly  until  cabbage  is  soft;  then  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one  of  flour.    Set  cabbage  back  when  stirring 


VEGETABLES 


ST 


in  sugar  and  flour  so  as  not  to  scorch.  When  this  is  done,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  vinegar. — B.  H.,  Wahoo,  Neb. 

HOT  SLAW 

Select  very  firm  cabbage,  quarter  it,  cut  it  in  very  thin,  long  strips. 
Turn  in  small  quantities,  cutting  across  equally  as  fine.  Handle  lightly 
to  keep  crisp.  Place  prepared  cabbage  in  cold  water  on  stove,  heating 
slightly,  drain  off  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready  two  level  tablespoons- 
ful  of  best  mustard,  into  which  break  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  working 
each  smoothly ;  add  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  stir- 
ring it  in.  Pour  into  saucepan  on  stove,  stirring  constantly  until  quite 
thick.  Stir  into  this  prepared  cabbage  and  serve. — Mrs.  M.  A.  Pear- 
son, St.  Augustine,  Fla. 

PICKLED  CABBAGE 
Chop  cabbage  as  fine  as  slaw,  put  a  little  salt  in  stone  jar,  then  a 
layer  of  cabbage  with  black  pepper,  mustard,  horse-radish  and  celery 
seed.  Fill  the  jar  with  layers,  first  cabbage,  then  salt,  cabbage  with  sea- 
soning, until  jar  is  full ;  pour  over  all  good  cider  vinegar  until  when 
weighted  the  vinegar  will  cover  top.  Put  on  top  a  plate  with  stone  to 
weight  it  down. — Lifts.  J.  H.  Jenkins,  Dahlonega,  Oa. 

SCALLOPED  CABBAGE 
One  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  whole 
milk,  a  pint  of  cooked  cabbage  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  taste  ;  butter  the 
size  of  walnut ;  mix  bread  and  milk  until  smooth.  Then  add  beaten 
eggs  and  cabbage.  Thoroughly  mix  together,  add  butter  and  pour  in 
pudding  pan,  cover  top  with  cracker  crumbs.  Bake  until  done. — Mrs. 
O.  W.  Hines,  McLeansville,  N.  G. 

COLD  SLAW 

Cut  very  fine  one  quart  of  good  white  cabbage,  mix  two  tablespoonsful 
of  salt  with  this  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Put  on  stove  to  boil,  one  cup- 
ful of  vinegar,  not  very  strong.  It  depends  on  one's  taste  in  this  mat- 
ter. Add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  ground  mustard  and  a  pinch  each  of  black  pepper  and  white  pep- 
per. Squeeze  every  bit  of  brine  out  of  the  cabbage  and  boil  in  the  above 
mixture  ten  minutes.  Add  a  half  cupful  of  sour,  thick  cream  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  let  boil  and  cool  before  using  it. — Mrs.  J.  F. 
Sigmon,  Weirsville,  Fla. 

CABBAGE  SLAW 
One  cabbage  and  one  onion  finely  minced,  salt,  and  let  stand  until 
salt  is  melted  ;  press  out  all  brine  and  add  dressing  as  follows :  One-half 
cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  three 
tablespoonsful  of  vinegar  ;  put  in  double  boiler  and  boil  until  it  thickens. 
Pour  over  the  cabbage  and  mix  well. — Mrs.  Theo.  A.  Jockesch,  Greens- 
boro, Ala. 

SMOTHERED  CABBAGE 
Take  two  quarts  of  finely  shredded  cabbage,  place  in  a  kettle  with  a 
close-fitting  cover  in  which  has  been  melted  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as 
an  egg.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  till  tender,  stirring  of- 
ten to  prevent  browning.  When  tender,  pour  on  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream 
and  a  little  viuegar,  if  liked,  or  the  vinegar  may  be  added  at  the  table. 
— Mrs.  O.  E.  Pleas,  Chiplcy,  Fla. 

BAKED  KRAUT 
Drain  the  liquor  from  one  quart  of  kraut,  grate  six  good-sized  pota- 
toes into  the  liquor,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  the  drippings  from 


m 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


seves  slices  of  smoked  bacon.  Add  tb«  kra«t  and  mix  well,  Bake  one 
kour,-**Mi3S  Blaib  Allen,  Bryant,  Aria, 

CABBAGE  PIE 
Take  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  cut  into  small  bits,  put  into  kettle 
containing  a  very  little  water,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  (this  should 
be  boiling).  Let  cook  until  cabbage  is  done.  Make  a  nice  light  biscuit 
dough,  roll  very  thin  and  cut  into  small  pieces  and  add  to  cabbage. 
Let  steam  five  minutes,  or  until  dumplings  are  nearly  done.  Add  one 
cupful  of  cream,  and  if  too  dry,  add  milk  enough  to  make  it  right ;  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Salt  should  be  put  in  water  before  cabbage  is  put 
in. — Maude  Cboss,  Gaiter,  Fla. 

BAKED  PEPPERS 
Cut  sweet  peppers,  near  the  stem,  nearly  of?u  Leave  top  on  like  a 
cap.  Scrape  out  seed.  Soak  awhile  in  salty  water.  Prepare  a  dressing 
as  for  turkey  or  chicken — bread  crumbs,  egg,  tomatoes  and  cold  boiled 
meat — and  stuff  peppers,  pulling  the  cap  down.  Place  in  baking  pan, 
half  cover  with  water.  Bake  for  an  hour,  keeping  them  basted  all  the 
while. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Myess,  Byhalia,  Miss. 

CREAMED  BEETS 
Boil  young  beets  till  tender,  then  peel  and  slice  them  into  a  frying 
pan  in  which  has  been  melted  a  good-sized  lump  of  butter.  Fry  till  a 
light  brown  and  pour  over  them  a  cupful  of  thick  sweet  cream  and  cook 
for  a  few  minutes.  If  the  cream  is  not  very  thick,  a  very  little  flour 
may  be  added  to  the  butter  before  pouring  in  the  cream.— Mbs.  C.  E. 
Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

EGG  PLANT 

Peel  and  cut  up,  put  in  boiler,  adding  enough  water  to  cook  until 
perfectly  done,  then  drain  off  water  and  mash  them  well ;  add  two  cups- 
ful  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Use 
the  beaten  crumbs  of  about  three  biscuits,  or  a  half  boxful  of  crackers. 
Put  in  a  well-greased  pan,  bake  until  brown.  Serve  hot. — Mbs.  Bessie 
Pboctoe,  Keysville,  Fla. 

EGG  PLANT 

After  paring,  cut  them  in  slices  as  thin  as  possible,  let  them  lay  an 
hour  in  salt  water,  then  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge  finely  pow- 
dered cracker  or  stale  bread  crumbs  over  each  piece,  beat  up  an  egg  as 
for  veal  cutlet,  dip  in  each  alternately,  and  put  in  a  pan  with  some  hot 
butter  or  beef  drippings.  Fry  slowly  until  quite  soft  and  a  dark  brown 
on  both  sides. — Ruby  Taylob,  Winnsboro,  La. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT 
Peel  and  cut  egg  plant  in  thin  slices,  not  over  a  quarter  @f  an  inch 
thick.  Lay  the  slices  in  strong  salt  water  for  half  an  hour.  Something 
heavy  must  be  placed  on  the  egg  plant  to  keep  it  from  floating.  Take 
egg  plant  out  of  water  and  either  dry  with  soft  cloth,  or  let  drain  through 
a  colander  for  a  few  minutes,  then  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  just 
as  you  would  oysters,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  cottolene.  Have  enough 
grease  to  cover,  same  as  in  frying  oysters  or  potato  chips.  Serve  hot. — 
Mbs.  H.  H.  Chappell,  San  ford,  Fla. 

SCALLOPED  EGG  PLANT 
Pare,  slice  and  soak  in  salt  water  as  for  frying.    Then  put  in  a 
layer  of  egg  plant  in  a  baking  dish  with  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and 
bits  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of  egg  plant,  crumbs  and  butter  till 


VEGETABLES 


at* 


dish  is  fall.   Moisten  crumbs  a  little  with  milk  or  water.    Place  dish  in 

roasting  compartment  of  tireless  cooker  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  If 
baked  in  oven  add  a  little  more  moisture  and  bake  slowly  with  cover  on. 
—Mrs.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

SCALLOPED  EGG  PLANT 
One  egg  plant,  ordinary  size ;  one  box  of  crackers,  oysterettes  pre- 
ferred ;  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
salt  and  pepper.  Boil  egg  plant  whole,  unpeeled,  in  water  enough  to 
cover,  till  you  can  stick  a  straw  to  the  center.  Take  out  of  the  water, 
remove  the  skin.  Next,  put  a  layer  of  egg  plant  in  a  rather  fleep  vege- 
table dish,  using  a  tablespoon  to  scoop  it  up.  Salt  and  pepper  the  layer 
of  egg  plant,  then  put  a  layer  of  crackers,  another  of  egg  plant,  not  for- 
getting the  salt  and  pepper,  and  last,  another  layer  of  crackers.  Over 
this  pour  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  scalding  hot  milk  in  which  the  butter 
has  been  melted.  After  so  doing,  set  the  dish  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  until  crackers  are  brown.  Serve  hot  in  the  same  dish  in  which 
it  is  cooked.  This  is  very  nice  and  tastes  very  much  like  oysters  pre- 
pared in  like  manner. — Mrs.  H.  H.  Ciiappell,  Sanford,  Fla. 

TURNIPS 

Prepare  turnips  by  slicing,  add  a  few  greens  if  you  like.  Put  in  pot 
with  just  enough  water  to  cook  them  done.  Put  in  shortening ;  when 
done  put  in  a  small  handful  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  sprinkle  of 
pepper  if  you  like ;  mash  well  the  turnips  and  greens  together. — Mrs. 
Claudia  Ozley,  Arcadia,  La. 

TURNIP  SLAW 
Pare  turnips  and  cut  fine  on  slaw  cutter ;  put  into  wooden  dish  and 
pound  with  potato  masher  or  a  cup  till  juicy ;  mix  with  salt,  pepper 
and  a  little  sugar,  pour  over  it  hot  bacon  grease  and  a  cupful  of  vinegar; 
hard  boiled  eggs  mixed  with  the  salad  improve  it— Agnes  Adams, 
Auburndale,  Fla. 

BAKED  SQUASH 
Fordhook  is  best,  but  if  crookneck  is  used,  let  them  be  rather  mature. 
Peel,  seed  and  boil.  To  one  pint  mashed,  drained  squash  adfl  one  cupful 
of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  milk,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  beaten  very  light.  Salt  anTl  pep- 
per. Stir  all  together  and  place  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  about  two 
inches  thick.  Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  F.  D.  Rood,  Montreat,  N.  C. 

COOKED  SQUASH 
Boil  squash  until  tender,  peel  four  or  five  ripe  tomatoes,  mash  squash 
and  tomatoes  together  ana1  drop  by  spoonsful  in  hot  lard  and  fry  brown ; 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Mrs.  Eva  Cloer,  EtJielsville,  Ala. 

TO  COOK  SUMMER  SQUASH 
Gather  the  tender  ones,  wash  and  slice  in  pan.    Put  enough  water  in 
to  start  them  cooking ;  when  done,  drain  well,  and  season  with  cream 
or  butter,  and  salt  to  taste. — Mrs.  G.  N.  Cloer,  Falkville,  Ala. 

SUMMER  SQUASH,  FRIED 
Slice  the  squash,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  season  with  pepper  and  salt; 
roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or  lard. — Mrs  W.  Dickerson, 
Lyons,  Ga. 

SQUASH  PIE 

Select  squashes,  wash,  peel  and  slice;  place  a  pan  on  the  stove  with 
enough  water  to  cover,  then,  when  sliced,  let  boil  until  done.  Mean- 


40 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


while  hare  a  pan  of  batter  prepared,  flour,  soda  and  mere  than  enough 
salt  to  season  bread,  plenty  of  black  pepper.  Mix  stiffly  with  sour  milk ; 
have  about  as  much  dough  as  squash,  pour  squash  into  the  batter,  mix 
well.  Place  batter  in  cakes  in  a  pan  of  hot  grease  and  let  fry  until  a 
light  brown.    It  is  ready  to  serve  and  is  excellent. — Anonymous. 

MACARONI 

Boil  a  small  box  of  macaroni  or  spaghetti  in  salted  water  until  thor- 
oughly tender.  Slice  three  or  four  large  onions  and  fry  in  butter,  then 
add  a  can  of  drained  tomatoes,  cover  and  allow  to  cook  about  twenty  or 
twenty-five  minutes.  Stir  into  this  the  macaroni  and  thinly  sliced  cheese 
and  serve  as  soon  as  cheese  has  melted. — Mrs.  K.  M.  Cook,  Bovina,  Miss. 

MACARONI 

Have  a  sauce  pan  on  the  fire,  half  full  of  boiling  water,  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Add  a  small  package  of  macaroni  and  boil  till  tender ; 
drain  and  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  till  cold.  Chop  two 
slices  of  bacon,  put  in  a  hot  spider  with  one  onion,  sliced ;  stir  constantly 
till  bacon  is  thoroughly  cooked  and  onion  a  nice  brown.  Then  add  a 
small  can  of  tomatoes,  and  last,  after  draining  the  water  from  macaroni, 
add  it  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Move  to  back 
of  stove  and  simmer  about  twenty  minutes,  then  serve. — Mbs.  Geobge 
W.  Wiley,  Robertsdale,  Ala. 

BAKED  MACARONI 
Break  in  one-inch  pieces,  boil  until  soft,  then  put  in  a  pudding  pan  in 
layers  an  inch  thick  and  separate  these  by  layers  of  cheese,  sprink- 
ling with  salt  and  butter :  grate  cheese  over  the  macaroni  and  add  from 
time  to  time,  until  the  cheese  has  melted,  a  mixture  of  hot  sweet  milk 
and  melted  butter. — Miss  Annie  Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla. 

ONIONS  BAKED  WITH  MACARONI 
Butter  a  pudding  dish  and  line  with  cracker. crumbs,  lay  on  a  layer 
of  onions  cut  in  rings,  then  a  layer  of  parboiled  macaroni  and  a  grating 
of  cheese,  salt  and  pepper ;  then  add  more  cheese  and  cracker  crumbs ; 
dot  with  butter  and  cover  with  hot  milk.  Bake  forty-five  minutes.  Re- 
move from  oven,  cut  in  squares,  serve  on  hot  platter,  garnished  with 
parsley  and  rings  of  raw  onion. — Geace  Shull,  Goodland,  Kans. 

MACARONI  WITH  TOMATOES  AND  CHEESE 
Half  package  of  macaroni  cooked  until  tender  in  salted  water,  two 
cupsf ul  of  cooked  tomatoes,  one  cupful  of  cheese ;  put  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  cooking  oil  in  pan  with  one  heaping  spoonful  of  flour.  Let  it  get 
very  hot,  then  put  in  tomatoes  and  cook  for  five  minutes.  Stir  in  cheese 
and  keep  stirring  until  cheese  is  melted.  Pour  on  macaroni  while  hot. 
Season  well.  A  small  onion  and  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley  cooked  with 
tomatoes  add  greatly  to  the  dish,  provided  one  is  fond  of  onion  flavor. 
Serve  very  hot. — Mes.  W.  H.  Holland,  Ninety-Six,  8.  C. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS 
Peel  and  cut  lengthwise  four  large  cucumbers  and  if  the  seeds  are 
very  large,  remove  them.  Boil  in  water  until  tender,  pour  off  surplus 
water,  add  one  egg.  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  black  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  then  stir  and  beat  until  well  mixed  and  light,  thicken 
with  bread  crumbs  and  make  into  cakes  and  fry  in  a  hot  greased  skillet 
— Mes.  R.  B.  England,  Rocky  Face,  Ga. 

WILTED  GREEN  ONIONS 
Cut  young  onions  into  quarter-inch  pieces,  using  both  tops  and  roots ; 
fry  some  smoked  ham,  take  up  and  pour  out  the  fat.  then  put  in  the 


VEGETABLES 


41 


onions,  cover  close  and  cook  until  all  are  thoroughly  wilted,  stirring  of- 
ten. Just  before  taking  up,  add  a  little  vinegar. — Mes.  0.  E.  Pleab, 
Chipley,  Fla. 

VEGETABLE  SMOLLOX 
One  quart  of  green  beans,  sliced  fine  as  possible,  two  large  carrots, 
diced  ;  four  medium-sized  potatoes,  diced  ;  one  onion,  minced  fine  ;  two 
tomatoes,  chopped  fine ;  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  bit  of  celery  and  a  pod  of 
red  or  green  pepper.  Cook  all  together  for  one  hour ;  season  with  salt, 
cream  and  butter  and  thicken  the  broth  with  a  little  flour. — Agnes  Ad- 
ams, Auburndale,  Fla. 

VEGETABLE  POTS 
One  cupful  of  cooked  rice,  a  half  cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  two 
cupsful  of  baked  beans  without  juice,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  flour,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  a  half  cupful  of  toma- 
toes. Melt  the  butter,  add  flour,  make  smooth,  add  tomato.  Cook  five 
or  six  minutes,  add  other  ingredients,  mix  all  together,  and  when  cold 
shape  and  fry  in  deep  fat. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Jenkins,  Dahlonega,  Ga. 

CHILI  GUMBO 
One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  okra,  sliced ;  one  onion,  chopped 
fine ;  as  much  green  pepper  as  you  like.    Stew  all  in  juice  of  tomatoes 
until  rather  thick.    Season  with  butter  or  fried  meat  grease  and  salt. 
— Mbs.  M.  M.  Smith,  Union,  Texas. 


FAYOEITH  8QUTHBRN  RECIPES 


SALADS 


IRISH  POTATO  SALAD 
Boil  four  large  potatoes ;  when  done,  peel,  cut  or  mash  into  pieces 
as  large  as  the  end  of  little  finger.  Now  peel  and  cut  the  same  size  as 
potatoes,  two  large  mellow  apples  and  put  with  potatoes.  Then  cook  to- 
gether, in  double  boiler,  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  half  cupful  of  water, 
a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  and  one  egg.  Cook 
this  until  as  thick  as  cream,  pour  over  potatoes  and  apples,  and  mis 
thoroughly  with  fork,  and  allow  to  cool  before  serving.  Add  salt  to 
taste. — Mbs.  W.  E.  Sweabingen,  Vienna,  Ga. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Take  nice,  smooth  potatoes,  wash  clean  and  boil  with  jackets  on; 
then  drain  and  let  get  cold,  then  peel,  slice  round,  or  dice  them.  Have 
ready  two  or  three  fresh  eggs  hard  boiled.  Dressing  for  potato  salad : 
Four  eggs  (yolks)  beaten  light,  four  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  one  ta- 
blespoonful of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  dash  of  celery — salt  or  celery  seed — butter 
size  of  walnut.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth,  thin  when  cool  with 
sweet  milk.  Take  the  hard-boiled  eggs  and  slice  and  mix  with  potatoes, 
then  pour  over  dressing. — Mbs.  Willis  L.  Lyon,  Whitehouse,  Fla. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Boil,  peel  and  chop  potatoes  fine,  two  onions,  two  eggs,  a  half  cupful 
of  vinegar,  two  teaspoonsful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonsful  of  black  pepper, 
one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonsful  of  butter.  Mix  together,  put 
on  and  cook  until  it  thickens.  Pour  over  the  potatoes.  Mix  in  a  large 
dish  before  you  put  it  in  a  dish  for  the  table. — Mbs.  John  Pubvis,  Ste- 
phen ville,  Texas. 

POTATO  SALAD 
One  dozen  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and  mashed,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  one  onion,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  celery  seed  and  mustard ;  add 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  six  hard- 
boiled  eggs.    Stir  well  together. — Mbs.  L.  C.  Hine,  Old  Town,  N.  G. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Boil  four  large  potatoes,  peel  and  mash.  Chop  one  good-sized  onion, 
two  cucumber  pickles,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  mix  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar,  salt,  add  pepper  to  taste.  Mould  in  a  cake  and  garnish  with 
a  hard-boiled  egg. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Thompson,  Pisgah,  Ala. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Boil  several  large  potatoes  until  very  tender,  cut  six  small  onions  in 
with  the  potatoes,  adding  the  following  dressing :  Put  two-thirds  cupful 
of  vinegar  in  a  pan  and  let  boil,  then  add  one  egg.  beaten  in  a  large  cup  ; 
add  enough  cream  to  finish  filling  the  cup,  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper ;  stir  this  in  the  vinegar,  let  cook  for  about  five 


SALADS 


4* 


minutes,  then  pour  over  the  potatoes  and  onions  and  mix  well.  Put  in  a 
dish,  serving  cold. — Miss  Martha  Edmundson,  Bay  Minette,  Ala. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Put  about  an  inch  layer  of  diced  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  dish,  sprinkle 
over  them  one  teaspoonful  of  minced  onions,  two  teaspoonsful  of  minced 
beet  and  one  teaspoonful  of  minced  parsley,  then  cover  thickly  with 
salad  dressing.  Repeat.  On  the  top  layer  place  the  beet  and  parsley  on 
top  of  the  dressing  for  garnish. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Holland,  Pecan,  Miss. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Twelve  large  potatoes,  boiled  in  water  and  salt  until  very  tender; 
drain,  mash,  add  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  four  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper ;  mix  all  together,  place  in  salad  di?h 
on  lettuce  leaves ;  cut  six  hard-boiled  eggs  in  rings  and  place  on  top, 
and  one  onion  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Archer,  Glenwood,  Ala. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Boil  six  potatoes  until  very  soft,  peel  and  mash  them  while  hot,  sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  spice,  adding  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Boil  two  eggs  hard  and  dissolve  the  yolks  in  two  tablespoonsful 
of  vinegar;  pour  it  over  potatoes  and  mix  well.  Put  on  plate  or  small 
platter  with  the  whites  cut  in  circles,  or  arranged  on  the  potatoes. — 
Miss  Vivian  Hodges,  Gillis,  La. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD 
Put  four  common-sized  potatoes  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  to  which 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt  has  been  added.  When  done,  remove  and  take  the 
skins  off,  mash,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  onion  cut  fine,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard,  two  of  vinegar ;  mix  well  and  put 
into  a  salad  dish.  Garnish  with  lettuce. — Mrs.  Emmett  Willis,  Boca 
Grande,  Fla. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Beat  yolks  of  two  eggs  very  light,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  ground  mustard,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  one-third 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  cupful 
of  sweet  milk  ;  boil  till  thick  ;  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Let  get  hot  and  stir  into  above.  Put 
on  again  and  boil  until  thick.  Let  cool  and  mix  with  potatoes  and  onions. 
— Mrs.  Mary  Sams,  Rockwall,  Texas. 

POTATO  SALAD 
Of  plain,  boiled,  dried  Irish  potatoes,  measure  a  quart.  Add  a  hard- 
boiled  egg  and  onion,  chopped  fine,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  pep- 
per, salt  and  celery  seed  to  taste.  Just  before  serving,  add  slowly,  mix- 
ing thoroughly,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream. — Mrs.  Wm.  Lea, 
Selmer,  Tenn. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD 
Boil  potatoes  in  salted  water  till  done.    Drain  off  water,  let  steam 
in  boiler  till  mealy;  skin,  mash  and  mix  with  two' eggs,  well  beaten; 
add  salt,  pepper,  onion  cut  fine,  mustard,  vinegar  to  taste ;  let  stand  till 
cool.   Nice  with  any  kind  of  meat. — Mrs.  N.  Conn,  Long  Beach,  Miss. 

POTATO  SALAD 
One  pint  of  cold  sliced  potatoes,  one  large  onion  sliced  into  slivers,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  three  table- 
spoonsful of  pure  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar.   Let  stand  and 


44 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


ripen.  Serve  in  a  border  of  lettuce  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggt, 
— Miss  Feed  a  Neabing,  Chipley,  Fla. 

IRISH  POTATO  SALAD 
Peel  a  half  gallon  of  Irish  potatoes,  boil  in  clear  water  until  tender, 
put  them  in  a  pan,  mash  fine,  then  add  a  half  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 
two  medium-sized  onions  that  have  been  well  cut  up,  six  boiled  eggs  cut 
in  small  pieces,  butter  the  size  of  a  guinea  egg,  black  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Mix  all  together,  put  in  a  bowl  or  meat  platter,  peel  some  boiled 
eggs,  cut  half  in  two,  place  about  over  the  salad.  Serve  while  warm  with 
biscuit  or  corn  bread. — Mes.  L.  E.  Hawkins,  Lingle,  Miss. 

TOMATO  SALAD 
Take  one  medium-sized  smooth  tomato  for  each  person  to  be  served ; 
peel  carefully  and  core  as  you  would  an  apple,  and  put  each  tomato  in  a 
small  dessert  dish  and  fill  the  center  of  each  with  a  dressing  made  as 
follows  :  Beat  two  eggs  and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  until  smooth ; 
add  two  teaspoonsful  of  made-mustard,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  cream, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  this  to  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  place  inside  a 
vessel  containing  boiling  water  and  cook  and  stir  until  the  mixture  is 
thick  and  smooth. — Mes.  Minnie  Owens,  Almyra,  Ark. 

VEGETABLE  SALAD 
One  quart  of  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  one  dozen  small  cucumbers,  peeled 
and  sliced,  a  half  dozen  large  tomatoes,  cut  into  dice.  Mix  and  place  on 
ice  while  preparing  the  following  dressing :  One-half  cupful  of  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  three 
tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  salad  oil  or  butter,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  prepared  mustard.  Heat  cream,  add  corn-starch,  wet  with  a  little 
milk  ;  add  sugar.  Let  it  boil.  Cool,  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs  and  other 
ingredients,  pour  over  salad  and  serve. — Mes.  Maida  Johnson,  El 
Campo,  Texas. 

SURPRISE  SALAD 
For  this  salad  use  any  kind  of  cold  vegetables,  mix  dressing  with 
vegetables  while  hot  and  serve  very  cold.  Dressing :  Boil  a  half  cupful 
of  vinegar,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
sugar,  white  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Wet  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  in  a 
little  vinegar  with  a  half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard.  Stir  this  into  the 
hot  vinegar,  stirring  all  the  while  till  thick  as  cream.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  one  well  beaten  egg.  The  hot  mixture  will  cook  the  egg  suffi- 
ciently. Put  your  vegetables  in  a  bowl  of  potatoes  in  dices,  peas,  corn, 
asparagus,  celery,  walnuts  and  apples.  Mix  well  with  the  hot  dressing. 
Arrange  tastily  on  lettuce  or  cabbage  leaves.  Garnish  with  beets,  eggs, 
olives,  or  anything  you  have. — Mes.  W.  D.  Bbown,  Hilton  Head,  S.  C. 

SWEET  POTATO  SALAD 
Boil  a  dozen  large  potatoes,  peel  and  dice.    Cut  fine,  onions  and  bits 
of  celery.    Have  two  or  three  eggs  boiled  hard  and  cut  in  it.  Sprinkle 
over  with  cinnamon.   Pour  over  it  good  cider  vinegar. — Mes.  Henby  J. 
Reed,  Hilliard,  Fla. 

ONION  SALAD 
Take  stale  biscuit  and  grate;  then  brown,  chop  enough  onions  to 
make  layers  with  the  crumbs.  Place  a  layer  of  crumbs  in  a  dish,  moisten 
with  vinegar,  add  a  dash  of  mustard,  black  pepper,  spice,  sugar  and  salt, 
then  a  layer  of  onions.  Fill  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and 
omiona,  etc, ;  use  plenty  ef  vinegar,  chop  boiled  eggs  and  place  ea  top.  It 


SALADS 


4* 


is  good  to  use  with  any  vegetable,  especially  beans. — Mbs.  S.  A.  Wil- 
liams, Ohatchee,  Ala. 

EGG  SALAD 

Boil  as  mpny  eggs  as  you  wish  to  have.  Be  sure  they  are  thor- 
oughly done,  take  off  the  shell,  cut.  half  in  two  crosswise,  separate  the 
yolks  from  the  whites,  mix  the  yolks  with  vinegar,  black  pepper,  and 
salt,  put  back  the  mixture  in  the  whites. — Mrs.  M.  R.  Shields,  Fin- 
gerville.  &.  C. 

CORN  SALAD 

Two  dozen  ears  of  green  corn,  boiled  on  cob  twenty  minutes,  then  cut 
off,  making  two  cuts,  so  it  will  not  be  too  coarse ;  one  head  of  cabbage 
cut  fine,  eight  sweet  peppers  (four  red,  four  green),  six  hot  peppers; 
cut  all  fine ;  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  half  gallon  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoonful  of  celery  seed,  salt  to  taste.  Mix 
all  together,  boil  twenty  minutes  and  seal.  If  vinegar  boils  away  much, 
add  more,  as  pickles  should  not  be  too  stiff. — Mrs.  J.  M.  C.  Myers, 
LaFayette,  Oa. 

CORN  SALAD 

Twelve  roasting  ears,  one  pint  of  sugar,  four  sweet  peppers,  four 
stalks  of  celery,  one  head  of  cabbage,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonsful  of 
mustard  seed,  one  and  a  half  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  three  pints  of  water. 
Cook  corn  and  cut  from  the  cobs,  grind  or  chop  other  ingredients.  Mix 
and  boil  one-half  hour,  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Jar  while  hot  and  seal. — 
Mrs.  F.  McFarland,  Pinellas  Park,  Fla. 

OYSTER  SALAD 
One  can  of  oysters,  chopped  fine,  drain  off  the  liquor ;  eight  crackers 
grated,  five  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine ;  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
cucumber  pickles.  Mix  all  this,  then  add  a  dressing  made  of  two  table- 
spoonsful of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  uncooked  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  three-fourths  cupful  of 
vinegar;  place  this  dressing  in  a  double  boiler.  Cook  till  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Cool  and  pour  over  the  salad. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Brownlee,  Brown- 
lee,  8.  C. 

GREEN  BEAN  SALAD 
Take  tender,  green  beans,  string  and  split  them,  boil  tender  in  salt 
water ;  when  well  done,  drain  and  add  to  the  following  :  Dice  up  several 
slices  of  fat  meat,  fry  brown  with  two  sliced  onions,  then  add  one  cupful 
of  vinegar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  in  which  pour  beans 
and  let  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  Theo.  Jockesch,  Greensboro,  Ala. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

Shave  a  medium-sized  cabbage  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  it  the  following  dressing  :  Heat  a  half  cupful  of  milk  to  a  boil, 
beat  two  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  and 
sti  all  in  the  boiling  milk.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  a  half  cup- 
ful of  vinegar  and  pour  over  cabbage  and  let  cool,  stirring  occasionally. 
— Mrs.  Dave  0.»tts.  Rankin,  Ky. 

CANNED  SALAD 
Eighteen  ears  of  sweet  corn,  four  large  onions,  one  large  head  of 
cabbage,  one  green  pepper,  one  red  pepper,  two  quarts  of  vinegar.  Chop 
onions  and  cabbage,  put  them  on  in  the  vinegar  and  cook  fifteen  minutes, 
then  add  corn,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  fourth  cupful  of  salt,  scant.  Mix 
together  two  tablespoonsful  of  ground  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of 
tumeric  p«wdw,  oae  oupful  of  siftad  flour  and  same  quamtity  of  water. 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  REGIPES 


Stir  until  there  are  no  lumps,  add  to  the  vinegar  and  other  ingredients. 
Cook  all  together  a  half  hour  and  put  in  cans  and  seal.  In  cutting  corn 
from  cob,  take  care  not  to  get  any  of  the  hulls, — Mas.  L.  J.  Abel,  Pkoe- 
nim,  Miss. 

LETTUCE  SALAD 
One  small  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  fourth  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mus- 
tard, or  small  half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  water, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ; 
use  one  egg  beaten  well.  Take  off  of  the  stove  and  beat  in  the  egg.  If 
it  boils  with  the  egg  in,  it  will  curdle.  After  the  egg  has  been  beaten  in, 
let  it  stand  and  cool.  Before  using,  put  in  a  half  cupful  of  milk  or 
cream  and  mix  in  the  lettuce. — Miss  Maegueeite  Shaveb.  Fsrt  Meade, 
Florida. 

LETTUCE  SALAD 
Cut  enough  lettuce  into  small  pieces  to  fill  dessert  aish,  and  add  two 
small  onions,  cut  fine.  Beat  together  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  one  egg, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Heat,  pour  over  the  lettuce,  stir  well  and  set  aside  to  cool. — Mbs.  Ma- 
belle  A.  Wabden,  Elkton,  Fla. 

LETTUCE  SALAD  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING 
One  large  solid  head  of  lettuce,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  tablespoonsful  of  thick  cream.  Remove  th? 
outer  leaves,  leaving  only  crisp,  blanched  leaves,  and  if  clean,  put  in  a 
towel  and  place  on  ice.  At  serving  time,  put  in  salad  bowl ;  mix  the  salt, 
pepper  and  vinegar  and  sprinkle  over  lettuce,  stir,  then  add  cream, 
spoonful  at  a  time.  Mix  by  tossing  the  lettuce  lightly  with  spoon  or  fork 
Mbs.  Bebta  Bbooks,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

SALAD 

Take  crisp  lettuce,  about  three  large  bunches,  wash  in  cold  water 
and  drain ;  four  large  boiled  potatoes,  one  onion,  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful 
of  prepared  mustard,  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Line 
the  salad  bowl  with  the  lettuce  leaves,  having  the  curly  part  for  edge. 
Dice  the  potatoes,  cut  balance  of  lettuce  in  small  pieces,  also  onion,  and 
two  of  the  eggs.  Mix  all  well  together  with  vinegar  and  put  in  bowl ; 
then  cut  balance  of  eggs  and  lay  around  on  top.  Also  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  sugar. — Mbs.  E.  H.  Mason,  Casco,  Va. 

SALAD 

One  cupful  of  chopped  apples,  one  cupful  of  celery,  one  cupful  of 
nut  meats,  one  cupful  of  raisins  ;  mix  well  and  pour  over  salad  dressing. 
Mbs.  H.  P.  S alley,  Antreville,  S.  G. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD 
Take  the  small  tender  tips,  wash  and  boil  in  salt  water  until  they 
are  tender,  set  on  the  ice  to  chili.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves.  Pour  over 
them  this  dressing :  Chop  one  onion  and  one  tomato  fine,  mix  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  olive  oil,  two  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pap- 
rika.— Mbs.  C.  H.  Hudson,  Bay  Minette,  Ala. 

SALAD 

Six  tablespoonsful  of  melted  butter,  six  tablespoonsful  of  sweet 
cream,  one  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  a  half  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  a 
half  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one  cup  of  vinegar.    Boil  well,  thin,  add 


SALAD 


47 


three  raw  eggs,  beaten  to  a  foam,  remove  from  fire  and  stir  five  minutes. 
Take  six  boiled  potatoes  and  one  onion  (cut  up  fine)  and  mash  up  and 
pour  the  dressing  over  them. — Mrs.  O.  E.  Martin,  Oxford,  Fla. 

NUT  SALAD 

Chip  fine  a  fourth  of  a  small  cabbage,  two  green  apples  and  one  cup- 
ful of  pecans,  all  together,  and  you  may  use  other  nuts  if  you  like.  For 
the  dressing,  use  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  mustard  to  taste,  and  black  pepper 
a  pinch,  a  lum;)  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  or  water  as  preferred. 
Cook  this  till  thick,  as  desired,  and  then  pour  over  the  cabbage  and  nuts, 
an  i  serve. — Mrs.  Willie  Morgan,  Lockhart,  Texas. 

NUT  SALAD 

Take  equal  parts  of  celery,  apples,  nuts,  chopped  not  too  fine.  You 
may  use  either  walnuts,  hickorynuts  or  pecans.  Dressing  :  Yolks  of  two 
eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  fourth  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  mustard,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour  or  corn-starch,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Beat  well  the  eggs, 
sugar,  salt,  mustard  a  ad  flour  together,  then  stir  in  vinegar.  Cook  until 
it  begins  to  thicken.  Then  stir  in  milk.  Keep  stirring  until  thick,  then 
cool.  Put  in  chopped  celery,  apples  and  nuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  or  cab- 
bage leaves  in  individual  dishes. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Gable,  Sharpsburg,  Qa. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
One-half  dozen  bananas,  a  half  dozen  oranges,  one  pint  can  of  pine- 
apple, one  pint  of  fruit,  canned  or  fresh,  a  half  box  of  gelatine  dissolved 
in  one  pint  of  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  fifty-four  English  walnuts. 
Mix  and  let  stand  over  night.  Peel  and  chop  oranges,  and  slice  bananas. 
— Mrs.  Y.  S.  Staneart,  Grand  Cane,  La. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
One  dozen  apples,  cut  fine ;  put  juice  of  three  lemons  over  them ; 
sweeten  to  taste.   Add  one  or  two  cupsf ul  of  nuts ;  flavor  with  celery, 
and  serve  with  salad  dressing. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Barwick,  Pace,  Miss. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
One  box  of  acidulated  gelatine,  soak  five  minutes  in  one  pint  of  cold 
water ;  add  two  pints  of  boiling  water,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  and  set  to 
cool.  In  large  salad  dish,  have  ready  one  can  of  pineapple,  a  half  dozen 
oranges,  a  half  dozen  bananas,  a  half  pint  of  pecan  or  English  wainut 
meats,  all  cut  in  small  pieces.  When  gelatine  is  cool,  pour  over  fruit, 
arranged  in  salad  dish.  Set  away  to  get  firm.  Grated  cocoanut  may  be 
sprinkled  over  top,  if  desired. — M.  O.  S.  W.,  Katy,  Texas. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
Peel  and  slice  three  oranges  and  four  bananas,  wash  and  hull  one 
pint  of  ripe  berries  (any  kind),  add  one  cupful  of  nut  meats,  twelve 
dates  (stoned)  and  one  apple  minced  fine.  Arrange  fruit  in  layers  in  glass 
dish,  pour  a  fruit  salad  dressing  over  whole  and  chill  thoroughly  before 
serving.  Dressing :  Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  one  package 
of  fruit  jello,  pour  over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  whip  two  min- 
utes, chill  and  pour  over  fruit. — Mrs.  Grace  Shull,  Ooodland,  Kans. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
Cut  in  one-half  cubes  four  or  six  oranges,  two  lemons,  three  large 
bananas,  grate  one  small  cocoanut  and  add  a  can  of  pineapple.    Put  in 
a  glass  dish  a  layer  of  the  mixed  fruit,  a  sprinkle  of  sugar,  until  fruit  is 


48 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


all  in,  putting  sugar  on  top.  Let  stand  four  to  six  hours  until  the  flavors 
blend. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Maddox,  Elberton,  Ga. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
Cut  up  three  bananas,  three  oranges,  three  apples,  and  almost  any 
amount  of  pecans.    Stir  these  together  with  any  desired  amount  of 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  F.  D.  May,  Brandon,  Miss. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
Chop  fine  one  cupful  of  nuts,  four  ripe  apples,  four  bananas,  a  half 
cupful  of  celery.  Make  a  dressing  of  a  half  teaspoonful  of  butter,  melt- 
ed, add  a  half  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  into  a  smooth  paste,  add  a 
half  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  let  thicken.  Have  mixed  one  egg  beaten,  a 
fourth  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  fourth  teaspoonful  of 
mustard.  Add  this  to  the  thickened  milk,  stirring  constantly  until 
smooth.  Pour  over  chopped  fruits  and  serve  at  once  with  meats. — Mrs. 
F.  M.  Davexpoet,  Valley  Head,  Ala. 

MIXED  FRUIT  SALAD 
Select  a  pineapple  with  a  graceful  top,  peel  and  slice  it  and  pile  one 
slice  on  the  other  in  the  center  of  the  dish  in  the  form  of  the  fruit. 
Sprinkle  each  slice,  as  placed,  with  powdered  sugar  and  add  at  last  the 
leafy  top  of  the  fruit ;  then  peel  and  divide  four  oranges  into  sections,  re- 
move seeds  and  arrange  pieces  about  the  pineapple.  After  that,  put  the 
lengthwise  slices  of  four  peeled  bananas  on  the  dish  to  form  all  around 
an  effect  like  the  spokes  of  a  wheel.  Fill  the  spaces  that  remain  on  the 
dish  with  any  attractive  fruit  in  season,  strawberries,  raspberries,  and 
pomegranate  seeds  make  a  pretty  effect,  and  when  serving,  add  sugar 
and  cream  and  a  glass  of  sherry  or  brandy  if  liked.  This  dressing  is  put 
on  at  the  last  moment,  so  as  to  preserve  the  natural  crispness  of  the 
fruit  as  long  as  possible. — Amy  E.  Spabe,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

FRUIT  SALAD 
Take  equal  parts  of  celery,  apples  and  white  grapes.  Cut  the  celery 
up  fine,  and  pare  and  cut  up  apples.  Cut  grapes  in  two  and  take  out 
seeds.  Mix  well.  Dressing :  Take  yolks  of  two  eggs,  whites  of  one, 
about  three  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  two  of  sugar,  and  one  spoonful  of 
butter ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  and  put  sugar  and  other  in- 
gredients in.  and  mix  with  a  half  cupful  of  water,  put  on  stove  and  boil 
till  thick ;  if  not  thick  enough,  add  flour.  Let  cool  well  before  mixing 
with  fruit. — Mrs.  Noah  H.  Davis,  Lakeland,  Texas. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

One  large  cocoanut,  grated ;  a  half  dozen  oranges,  peeled  and  cut  fine, 
all  seeds  and  white  skin  removed ;  six  bananas,  peeled  and  sliced  cross- 
ways  in  small  pieces,  one  ten-cent  can  of  grated  pineapple.  Put  a  layer 
of  cocoanut,  then  one  of  oranges,  and  one  of  bananas,  and  one  of  pine- 
apple in  a  dish,  sprinkling  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  between  each  layer. 
Repeat  until  all  are  used,  pour  the  milk  from  the  cocoanut  over  the  top 
and  sprinkle  cocoanut  and  a  little  sugar  on  top. — Miss  Eloise  Tisdale, 
Chatana,  Miss. 

FRUIT  SALAD  IN  APPLE  CUPS 
Select  large  red  apples,  hollow  out  the  core  and  some  of  the  inner 
meat  of  the  apples,  and  slice  a  piece  from  the  bottom  so  they  will  stand 
up  as  cups.  Make  the  salad  thus :  One  orange,  one  cupful  of  grated  co- 
eoamut.  the  inner  part  of  the  apples,  and  one  banana.   Mix  well,  and  fill 


SALADS 


49 


apple  cups.  When  ready  to  serve  spread  whipped  cream  over  this,  and 
into  it  drop  raisins. — Pearl  L.  Hammond,  Evatt,  8.  C. 

F&TJIT  SALAD 
Take  a  half  dozen  each  of  apples  and  oranges,  a  can  of  shredded  pine- 
apple and  one  cocoanut.    Pare  and  chip  fine  the  fruit,  grate  the  cocoa- 
nut  and  add  the  pineapple.    Mix  in  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  serve  on 
dessert  dishes. — Miss  Nettie  Etheeedge,  Sweetwater,  Ala. 

APPLE  SALAD,  OR  HEAVENLY  HASH 

To  two  cupsful  of  chopped  apples  add  one  cupful  of  walnut  meats, 
chopped  fine,  and  add  to  the  above  ingredients  the  following  dressing : 
Put  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  a  bowl  and  beat  well,  add  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  stir  ;  add,  drop  by  drop,  four  tablespoonsful 
of  melted  butter  and  one  and  a  half  tablespoonsful  of  lemon  juice,  grad- 
ually. Just  before  serving  add  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream  to  the  dress- 
ing and  toss  all  lightly  together.  A  little  lemon  juice  squeezed  over  the 
apples  after  they  an-  chopped  prevents  them  discoloring. — Nona  Law- 
let,  Oakville,  Texas. 

APPLE  SALAD 

Pare  and  cut  into  quarter  inch  dice  two  rich  tart  apples,  mix  with 
two  cupsful  of  nuts,  pecans  or  English  walnuts.  Use  the  following 
dressing :  Two  eggs,  the  juice  of  three  oranges  and  two  lemons,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar.  Mix  juices  and  sugar,  pour  into  the  well-beaten  eggs,  cook 
until  thick  ;  let  cool  and  pour  over  salad. — Mes.  W.  J.  Mankin,  Whitt, 
Texas. 

BANANA  SALAD 

Slice  one  dozen  bananas,  add  peanuts,  rolled  fine,  and  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  mix  together  and  over  this  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  made  as  fol- 
lows :  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch. Boil  until  the  mixture  is  thick. — Mrs.  Frank  Koop,  Vander- 
bilt,  Texas. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Mince  the  white  meat  of  a  cold  boiled  or  roasted  chicken ;  set  aside 
and  prepare  dressing  as  follows :  Run  through  sieve  the  yolks  of  two 
hard-boiled  eggs,  add  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  one  of  mustard, 
and  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar ;  heat  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  the 
chicken.  Mix  well  and  garnish  with  eggs  and  celery. — Mrs.  W.  P. 
Howell,  Mendenliall,  Miss. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Cook  one  chicken  until  meat  falls  from  the  bones,  use  three  cupsful 
of  Irish  potatoes,  two  cupsful  of  chopped  celery,  one  cupful  of  nut 
meats.  Pour  over  this  a  good  mustard  dressing,  with  one  cupful  of 
sherry  wine ;  use  as  much  dressing  as  you  like,  but  do  not  have  salad 
stiff.— Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  S.  C. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

The  salad,  par  excellence,  is  made  of  chicken.  Everything  used  in 
preparing  salad  should  be  cold — the  fowl,  eggs  and  oil — and  should  al- 
ways be  chilled  before  serving.  Boil  the  fowl  until  tender,  letting  it 
cool  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  cooked ;  when  cold  cut  into  small  pieces 
and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  c«lery  to  each  chicktn.   Chop  three  hard- 


50 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


boiled  eggs  and  two  cucumber  pickles.  Chill,  mix  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Anonymous. 

SALMON  SALAD 
One  can  of  salmon,  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  half  of  a  small  head  of 
cabbage,  chopped  fine,  one  minced  pickle,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little 
vinegar ;  mix. — Mbs.  T.  A.  Lawhon,  Taylor,  Texas. 

SALMON  SALAD 
One  can  of  salmon  well  picked  and  boned,  a  half  pint  of  cracker 
crumbs,  then  cream  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  small 
onion,  chopped  fine,  two  boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful of  black  pepper,  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  half  cupful  of  hot  water ;  stir 
all  together  and  serve  at  once. — Mbs.  A.  Lewis,  Hazlehurst,  Miss. 

SALMON  SALAD 
Thoroughly  mash  one  good  salmon  immediately  upon  opening.  Stir 
a  mixture  of  one-half  teacupful  of  vinegar  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard. Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  several  sour  cucumber  pickles 
minced.  Garnish  dish  with  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced,  and  several 
sprigs  of  parsley. — Mbs.  G.  A.  Taylob,  BoUngbroke,  Ga. 

SALMON  SALAD 
Two  cans  of  salmon,  ten  eggs  (hard  boiled),  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  celery 
and  white  mustard  seed,  and  one  or  two  medium-sized  cucumber  pickles, 
chopped  fine.  Place  a  salmon  in  a  stone  crock,  boil  the  eggs,  shell  them, 
and  cut  in  halves ;  put  all  the  yolks  and  half  the  whites  into  the  crock ; 
add  the  seasoning  and  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar.  Mix  all  well  together. 
Garnish  with  the  remaining  whites. — Mbs.  G.  E.  Addison,  Spider,  La. 

SALMON  SALAD 
One  cupful  of  salmon,  free  from  bones  and  skin,  picked  fine,  one 
cupful  of  finely  chopped  cabbage,  one  cupful  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
one  tablespoonful  of  minced  onion,  two  crackers,  rolled  fine ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  add  vinegar  to  suit  taste,  the  amount  depending  on 
the  strength.  If  celery  is  out  of  season,  use  raw  apple  and  a  good  pinch 
of  celery  seed.  English  peas,  either  canned  or  freshly  cooked,  are  quite 
an  addition,  also  a  hard-boiled  egg. — Mbs.  J.  C.  McDonald,  Rockwall, 
Texas. 

FISH  SALAD 

Take  cold  left-over  fish  or  canned  salmon,  two  cupsful,  one  large  or 
two  small  Irish  potatoes,  boil  till  tender ;  mash  and  mix  wfth  fish  while 
warm,  using  a  fork.  Cut  into  small  pieces  two  sour  cucumber  pickles, 
mix  with  above  and  pour  over  the  following  dressing  and  stir  in  thor- 
oughly :  The  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  dash 
of  black  pepper.  Mix  well  together  and  add  one  cupful  of  vinegar ;  stir 
well,  then  pour  over  fish. — Mbs.  Nellie  C.  Bbadshaw,  Fairmont,  Tenn. 


DRESSINGS 


53 


DRESSINGS 


POTATO  SALAD  DRESSING 
Beat  one  egg  in  a  large  coffee  cup,  fill  this  with  sour  cream.  Put  a 
naif  cupful  of  vinegar  into  a  granite  pan,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Set  on  stove,  add  the  cream  and  egg.  Stir  until  thick.  Pour  over 
potatoes  and  onions  finely  chopped.  This  is  equally  good  for  cabbage 
salad. — Mrs.  J.  N.  Potter,  Billiard,  Fla. 

SALAD  DRESSING 
Mix  well  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt ; 
add  one  cupful  of  vinegar ;  cook  till  thick.    Bottle  for  use ;  will  keep 
indefinitely. — Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  S.  C. 

SALAD  DRESSING 
Two  eggs,  or  three  yolks  are  better,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half 
cupful  of  vinegar,  a  half  cupful  of  water,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  dry  mustard.  Beat 
the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  vinegar  and  water  and  stir  well.  Set 
on  stove  and  stir  constantly  for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  then  thicken 
to  a  stiff  paste  with  flour.  Be  sure  to  stir  all  the  while  to  keep  from 
lumping.  After  it  is  cool,  mix  the  salt  and  mustard  together  and  put  in 
salad  dressing.  When  ready  to  use,  thin  to  the  consistency  of  good 
cream,  with  cream,  if  you  have  it ;  if  not,  milk  will  do.  This  is  fine  for 
fruit,  meat  or  vegetables.  With  fruit  whip  the  cream  before  using,  add- 
ing a  few  finely  chopped  nuts.  This  is  a  delicacy  at  any  meal  either  as  a 
salad  or  last  course  for  dinner. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Ceerze,  Knoxville,  Term. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING 
Into  two  well-beaten  eggs  beat  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  English  mustard,  a  half  pint  of  vinegar,  and  cayenne  and 
salt  to  taste.  Put  in  a  sauce  pan  and  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  steadily. 
When  it  bubbles,  stir  in  a  spoonful  of  butter,  and  as  soon  as  this  is 
melted,  take  from  fire.  Set  aside  until  very  cold. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Kohn, 
Wade,  Fla. 

SALAD  DRESSING 
Place  on  stove  one  tumblerful  of  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut ; 
cool.    Add  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  boil.   Cool  again,  adding  one 
tumblerful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt. — Mrs.  Starke  Willis,  Gray's  Port,  Miss. 

SALAD  DRESSING 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  egg 
beaten  with  sugar,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch,  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cupful  of  water.  Mix  all  to- 
gether.   Let  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.    This  dressing  is  fine 


52 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


for  salads  or  fresh  meat  and  will  keep  several  daye. — Mies  Maggie  L. 
Hendbick,  Roberta,  Ga. 

DRESSING  FOR  SALAD 
Cream  together  one  potato  while  hot.  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  tw©  table- 
spoonsful  of  thick  cream  and  one  teaspoonful  of  celery  extract,  then  add 
vinegar  until  acid  enough. — Mes.  H.  H.  Keys,  Ingleside,  Texas. 

SALAD  OR  FRENCH  DRESSING 
Beat  two  whole  eggs  or  four  yolks,  adding  four  tablespoonsful  of  hot 
vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  and  creamy,  stirring  con- 
stantly so  it  will  not  lump.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  gradually  four 
tablespoonsful  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter.  Season  with  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  of  ground  mustard,  one  quarter  teaspoonful  of  two  kinds  of 
pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of  fine  sugar. — Mes.  G.  M.  Parkee,  Rob- 
ets,  Ala. 

DRESSING  FOR  SLAW 
Tolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  one-third  teacupful  of  new  milk,  and 
a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.    Stir  over  the  fire  until  thick  and  then  pour  over  the  slaw. — 
Mes.  W.  Dickebson,  Lyons,  Ga. 

SANDWICH  FILLING 
Three  pounds  of  ham.  chopped  fine,  three  pounds  of  chopped  cucum- 
ber pickles ;  heat  one  pint  of  vinegar,  then  beat  three  eggs  well,  and  to 
the  eggs  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard, 
and  one  tablesponful  of  butter.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  this 
together  and  pour  into  hot  vinegar,  but  do  not  boil.  Pour  this  dressing 
over  chopped  ham  and  pickles  and  mix  well. — Mes.  A.  J.  Beye,  Hil- 
Umrd,  Wta. 

GOLDEN  SALAD  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALADS 
Two  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  lemon  juice,  one-fourth  cupful  of  orange, 
pineapple  or  grapefruit  juice,  and  cook,  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
from  fire  as  soon  as  lightly  thickened  and  cool  quickly  as  possible. — Msa 
P.  H.  Roets,  Gainesville,  Fla. 


BREAD 


BREAD 


EGG  BISCUIT 

Sift  together  two  eupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  teasponful  of  salt,  aud  add  slowly  one-third  cupful  of  butter, 
two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  three-fourths  cupful  of  milk.  Stir  well,  drop 
by  spoonsful  on  greased  pan  and  bake  ten  minutes  in  hot  oven. — Mbs. 
Mabelle  A.  Warden,  Elkton,  Fla. 

SWEET  BISCUITS 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  warmed,  a  half  pint  of  lard  melted,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  white  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  a  half  pint  of  yeast.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff 
batter.  Mix  this  up  early  in  the  morning  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  get 
light  Then  add  enough  flour  to  knead  smooth.  Now  let  rise  again,  then 
pinch  off  in  little  biscuits,  and  when  light,  bake  the  same  as  light  bread. 
— Mbs.  Kellab  Maxwell,  St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

DROPPED  BISCUITS 
To  a  pint  of  flour  add  sweet  milk  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter,  add 
salt  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  and  a  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter or  lard,  melted.  Drop  by  spoonsful  on  a  greased  tin  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven.  If  the  spoon  is  dipped  each  time  in  sweet  milk  the  biscuits 
will  look  neater.  This  is  a  delicate  hot  bread  which  is  easily  digested. — 
Jennie  H.  Holman,  St.  Matthews,  S.  C. 

BISCUIT 

Biscuit  raised  with  baking  powder,  or  soda  and  sour  milk,  are  lighter 
if  made  quickly  and  baked  at  once,  as  the  gas  formed  by  the  acid  and 
alkali  escapes  rapidly  after  the  liquid  is  added  to  the  flour.  The  follow- 
ing is  a  quick  way  to  make  them  and  saves  unnecessary  handling :  Have 
everything  needed  at  hand  before  mixing.  To  a  quart  of  flour  use  a 
scant  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Sift  all  to- 
gether and  rub  in  a  half  cupful  of  lard.  Mix  with  sour  buttermilk  to 
make  a  moderately  soft  dough,  kneading  lightly  and  quickly  until  smooth. 
Then  turn  into  a  goodsized  baking  pan,  which  has  been  dusted  with  flour, 
roll  into  a  sheet  and  prick  with  a  fork  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  gath- 
ering up  the  bits  of  dough  between,  and  leaving  the  biscuit  evenly  placed 
on  the  pan  where  cut.  Bake  at  once.  The  fragments  of  dough  may  be 
saved  in  a  small  quantity  of  milk  and  added  to  the  next  dough. — Mrs. 
R.  T.  Steele,  Wagram,  N.  C. 

BISCUIT 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  in  bread  tray,  next  add  salt,  about  one  level 
teaspoonful,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Mix  thoroughly  with  part  of  the  flour  at  one  side  of  tray,  then 
add  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Take  one  cupful  of  good,  thick  buttermilk, 
add  a  little  and  then  mix.  Use  a  large-sized  fork  to  mix  dough.  Add  all 
the  milk  and  keep  mixing  as  you  add  it,  until  you  have  the  dough  so  it 


54 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


wont  stick  to  your  hands.  Then  take  your  hands  and  finish.  Make  a 
smooth  soft  dough,  knead  it  about  three  minutes ;  have  dough  board 
sprinkled  with  flour  so  that  dough  wont  stick.  Roll  dough  out  thin — the 
thickness  of  half  a  biscuit — then  fold  one  side  back  and  roll  lightly  again 
so  the  two  layers  will  stick  together.  Cut  out  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
They  will  be  light  and  nice  and  will  break  open  in  halves  without  the 
use  of  a  knife. — Mbs.  T.  B.  Gbaves,  Goldthwaite,  Texas. 

BISCUIT 

To  one  quart  of  flour  take  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  level  tablespoonfuJ  of  salt,  two  teacups- 
f ul  of  sour  milk,  and  lard  the  size  of  an  egg ;  work  into  a  soft  dough ; 
roll,  cut  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  This  measure  will  make 
plenty  for  four  people. — Lizzie  Joxes,  Springville,  Ala. 

SOUTHERN  BISCUIT 
One  quart  of  sweet  cream,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  white  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar ;  add  flour  sufficient  to 
make  a  stiff  dough,  knead  well  and  mold  into  neat,  small  biscuit  with  the 
hands. — Mbs.  Wm.  Lea,  Selmer,  Tenn. 

BEATEN  BISCUIT 
Beaten  biscuit  are  so  delightful  for  the  sick  and  for  travelers  that  I 
give  my  recipe :  Into  a  pound  of  sifted  flour  mix  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
and  one  of  salt,  a  bit  of  soda  the  size  of  a  pea.  Rub  into  this  five  ounces 
of  lard.  When  thoroughly  blended,  add  sweet  milk  to  make  rather  stiff 
dough.  Beat  twenty  minutes,  cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter  (I  use  a 
talcum  powder  box),  bake  very  slowly  to  a  light  orown.  These  will  keep 
for  months. — Mbs.  Ebxest  Cochban,  Anderson,  8.  C. 

SPOON  CORN  BREAD 
Two  pints  of  buttermilk,  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda  and  a  pinch  of  salt.   Stir  all  together,  pour  in  dish  and 
bake  until  done.   The  bread  should  be  soft  and  light   Use  plenty  of  but- 
ter.— Miss  Maude  Woodwabd,  Jonesville,  Ta. 

STEAMED  CORN  BREAD 
Four  cupsful  of  yellow  meal,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoonful Gf  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Steam  three  and  a  half  hours 
or  longer.  This  may  be  eaten  with  butter  or  rich  milk,  sweetened.—- 
Emma  Akebs,  EiUiard,  Fla. 

SWEET  CORN  BREAD 
Two  cupsful  of  sifted  corn  meal,  a  half  cupful  of  flour,  two  cupsful 
of  buttermilk,  two  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  molasses  or  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  two  tablespoonsful  of  melted  butter  or  lard.  Put  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  in  the  buttermilk,  mix  the  whole  thor- 
oughly, and  bake  in  two  paus  not  too  shallow.  Sweet  milk  may  be  used 
instead  of  buttermilk,  and  baking  powder  instead  of  soda. — Mbs.  Kate 
Stickle,  Bridgeport,  Ala. 

CORN  BREAD 

Beat  two  eggs,  white  and  yolks  together ;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  teasponful  of  salt,  a  half  pint  of  buttermilk,  a  half  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  nine  tablespoonsful  of  sifted  corn  meal.  Put  a  piece  of  lard, 
size  of  an  egg,  in  pan  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked  ;  when  melted  (not  hot) 


BREAD 


55 


pour  in  batter ;  beat  it  well.  Allow  three-fourths  of  an  hour  for  making 
batter  and  baking  it.  When  a  nice  brown,  remove  from  oven,  turn  a 
cover  over  it,  and  steam  a  few  minutes,  then  it  will  come  out  of  pan 
nicely.  Use  cotton  seed  oil  instead  of  lard,  when  you  have  it. — Sallie 
J.  Carmical,  Turin,  Qa. 

CORN  BREAD 

Have  ready  the  steamer  filled  with  one-pound  baking  powder  cans, 
about  seven  in  number,  well  greased.  Take  of  syrup,  two  cupsful,  in 
which  is  dissolved  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda.  In  the  absence  of  sour 
milk,  use  three  cupsful  of  sweet  milk  with  three  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  four  cupsful  of  corn  meal,  one 
cupful  of  flour.  Fill  cans  two-thirds  full,  steam  over  boiling  water  forty- 
five  minutes,  then  bake  fifteen  minutes. — Louise  S.  Boyce,  Camp  Wal- 
ton, Fla. 

CORN  LIGHT  BREAD 
Boil  a  pint  of  water,  stir  in  a  pint  of  meal  already  mixed  with  water. 
Let  it  boil  to  mush  and  then  add  a  half  gallon  of  warm  water.  Add  two 
teaspoonsful  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  then  stir  in  meal 
enough  to  make  the  mixture  thick.  Dust  a  layer  of  meal  over  the  top 
and  set  in  a  warm  place.  Stir  in  an  hour'or  two,  and  when  risen,  add 
two  or  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonsful  of  lard,  and  enough  meal  to 
thicken.  Grease  pan  well  and  bake  slowly. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Walker,  Du- 
luth,  Qa. 

BATTER  BREAD 
One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  fourth  cupful  of  lard,  one  egg,  one  and  a 
fourth  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  cup- 
ful of  corn  meal,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt. — 
Mrs.  Reed,  Sr.,  Hilliard,  Fla. 

CORN  BREAD 

One  well-beaten  egg,  two  cupsful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  cupsful  of  meal,  and  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  flour ;  that  is,  when  using  bolted  meal.  Where  coarse  meal  is 
used,  leave  out  flour. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Man  kin,  Whitt,  Texas. 

YANKEE  CORN  BREAD 
Beat  well  one  egg  and  a  large  pinch  of  salt,  add  one  large  tablespoon- 
ful of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk  (scant),  nutmeg,  a  half  cupful  of  corn 
meal,  one  rounding  cupful  of  flour  (white),  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  (or  lard)  melted.  I  take 
all  sorts  of  liberties  with  this  recipe — sometimes  using  two  eggs  or  leav- 
ing them  out  entirely,  using  buttermilk  and  soda  instead  of  sweet  milk, 
using  more  of  one  kind  of  flour  and  less  of  the  other.  I  always  melt  my 
butter  or  lard  in  the  pan  I  am  going  to  use,  as  I  prefer  a  warm,  well- 
greased  pan. — Mrs.  F.  S.  Yv^hitney,  Elkton,  Fla. 

EGG  BREAD 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  two  cupsful  of  sour  milk,  one  smooth  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  one  small  handful  of  corn  meal,  lard  the  size  of  small 
eggs,  melted,  and  added  to  batter.  A  little  salt.  Bake  in  hot  oven. — 
Miss  Ida  Tidwell,  Oneonta,  Ala. 

GOOD  EGG  BREAD 
One  well-beaten  egg,  one  cupful  of  good  sour  milk,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  and  a  little  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.    Add  enough  meal 
to  make  a  soft  batter.    Put  two  tablespoonsful  of  lard  in  a  pan  and  let 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPE* 


it  get  smoking  hot,  then  pour  into  your  batter.   Serve  while  hot. — Mbs. 

N.  B.  Stone,  Wewahitchka,  Fla. 

CORN  LIGHT  BREAD 
Put  a  half  gallon  of  water  in  boiler ;  let  it  almost  boil,  stir  in  corn 
meal  enough  to  make  thin.  Mash,  cook  almost  done,  set  off  to  cool,  but 
not  cold.  Then  put  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  two  teacupsful  of  flour,  one 
heaping  tablespoonfnl  of  sugar,  or  good  molasses,  one-half  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  and  salt  to  taste ;  then  more  corn  meal,  enough  to 
make  stiff  dough;  work  well,  then  put  in  a  quart  of  dry  meal  on  top. 
Set  by  fire  or  keep  in  a  warm  place.  Between  11  or  12  o'clock  work  well 
again,  let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place,  then  put  in  pie  pan,  set  in  stove  and 
cook  slowly  until  done. — Mabtha  L.  McCbacken,  Ralph,  Ala. 

SALT  RISING  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  mashed  potateos  (hot),  four  level  tablespoonsful  of 
corn  meal,  two  level  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  one  teasponful  of  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly  in  deep  vessel,  pour  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  stirring  to 
prevent  lumps.  Cover  and  keep  all  afternoon  in  pan  of  water,  uncom- 
fortably warm  for  the  hand.  Keep  in  warm  place  over  night  and  if 
there  are  bubbles — even  a  patch  not  larger  than  a  dime — warm  up. 
Then  pour  off  the  liquid  and  blend  it  with  a  pint  of  milk  heated  and 
cooled  to  lukewarm.  Add  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  salt,  two  table- 
spoonsful of  shortening,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  stiffer  than 
ordinary  cake  batter.  Keep  in  warm  place  until  it  has  risen  to  double 
its  bulk.  Mould  into  loaves,  by  working  in  flour,  and  keep  warm  until 
it  has  risen  double  its  bulk,  then  bake  in  hot  oven  forty-five  minutes. 
This  bread  requires  a  much  greater  degree  of  heat  than  can  be  used  in 
ordinary  bread. — Kabon  M.  Smith,  Union,  Terns. 

CORN  MUFFINS 
One  pint  of  buttermilk,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  smooth,  thick  batter. 
Add  the  soda  to  the  buttermilk,  beat  the  eggs,  white  and  yolks  together, 
until  light ;  pour  the  milk  on  the  eggs  and  add  the  sifted  meal.  Bake  in 
gem  pans  in  a  very  hot  oven.  It  is  better  to  try  a  little  of  the  batter  be- 
fore baking  the  muffins,  because  sour  milk  has  different  degrees  of 
acidity,  and  if  there  is  not  soda  enough,  a  little  more  may  be  added  by 
dissolving  it  in  water. — Miss  Mabgaeet  S.  Gbaham,  Jasper,  Fla. 

CORN  MUFFINS 
To  one  well-beaten  egg  add  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of 
corn  meal,  a  third  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  soda.    Mix  thor- 
oughly, pour  into  a  hot,  well-greased  pan,  and  bake  with  a  quick  heat 
— Mbs.  M.  J.  Gaskin,  Neicton,  Texas. 

ROASTING-EAR  BREAD 
Prepare  one  dozen  good  ears  of  corn.  With  a  sharp  knife  split  the 
grains  lengthwise  from  the  cob ;  cut  edge  very  thin  and  scrape.  To  this 
add  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  salt,  a  little  flour.  Have  batter 
thin.  Pour  into  hot,  well-greased  pan  ;  bake  quickly  and  serve  hot  with 
butter. — Mbs.  M.  M.  Smith,  Union,  Texas. 

PONE  CORN  BREAD  WITHOUT  SHORTENING 
Three  cupsful  of  sifted  meal,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  pour  in  boil- 
ing water,  stirring  all  the  time,  until  you  get  the  meal  wet ;  then  take  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  mix  well  with  milk.   Make  into  pones,  putting 


BREAD 


51 


on  a  hot,  greased  pan.  Cook  in  top  of  stove  until  a  light  brown,  then  re- 
move to  bottom  of  stove  and  cook  a  half  hour. — Mrs.  Arthub  Dennosb, 
Plain  Dealing,  La. 

SPOON  BREAD 
Scald  one  cupful  of  meal  with  three  cupsful  of  boiling  water,  stir  in 
three  cupsful  of  buttermilk  in  which  you  have  dissolved  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda ;  add  two  eggs,  salt  to  taste.  Have  your  bread  pan  piping  hot 
with  one  tablesponful  of  lard,  pour  over  bread.  Then  pour  all  into 
bread-pan  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs.  Lucy  M.  Perry,  Byhalia,  Miss. 

RAISED  BREAD 
First,  make  a  sponge  at  night  by  dissolving  two  yeast  cakes  in  one 
pint  of  warm  water,  then  thicken  with  flour  to  a  stiff  batter,  set  in  a 
warm  place  till  morning,  when  it  will  be  light.  Put  flour  in  large  deep 
pan,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  mix  through  flour,  make  large  hole 
in  center  of  flour  and  pour  in  yeast-sponge ;  add  handful  of  sugar  and 
tablespoonful  of  lard,  and  one  pint  of  warm  water.  Pour  the  water  in 
yeast  jar  and  rinse,  then  pour  in  bread  pan,  mixing  all  to  a  stiff  dough. 
Then  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  in  a  pan  that  has  been  greased.  Let 
rise  to  twice  its  size,  mould  out  in  loaves,  put  in  pans,  let  rise  again  and 
bake.  Have  oven  hot  when  bread  is  put  in  to  bake. — Mrs.  L.  R.  Mc- 
Queen, Egans,  Texas. 

BREAD  —  MILK-RAISED 
The  night  before  the  bread  is  to  be  made,  take  two  spoonsful  of  corn 
meal  and  pour  over  it  enough  boiling  milk,  fresh  from  the  cow,  to  wet 
the  meal  and  make  it  fpongy.  Beat  until  smooth  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
till  morning.  In  the  morning,  take  a  larg-e  pitcher,  into  which  pour 
three  cupsful  of  fresh  milk,  one  spoonful  each  of  sugar  and  salt ;  over 
this  pour  three  cupsful  of  boiling  water.  Let  the  mixture  cool  to  milk 
warm,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter  and  beat  until  perfectly 
smooth  and  free  from  all  lumps ;  lastly,  add  the  meal  sponge  of  the 
night  before.  Set  the  pitcher  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water  and  stir  the 
batter  several  times  before  rising.  If  the  day  is  a  warm,  summer  day, 
the  yeast  will  rise  in  about  two  hours  and  be  ready  to  make  into  dough. 
Add  nothing  to  the  flour  except  the  yeast  and  a  small  spoonful  of  lard ; 
have  the  stove  just  warm  enough  to  make  the  bread  rise,  then  make  a 
quick  fire  and  bake. — Miss  Margaret  S.  Graham,  Jasper,  Fla. 

SPOON  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  corn  meal,  two  cupsful  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  three  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter- 
milk, one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Stir  salted  meal  into  boiling 
water,  add  milk  and  soda.  Brown  in  moderate  oven.  —  Elizabeth 
Booth  Parnell,  Browns,  Ala. 

SPOON  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  meal,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  but- 
termilk, one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  a  half  teasponful  of  soda,  a 
little  salt.    Cook  till  it  is  well  set. — Mrs.  S.  H.  Marshall,  Carroll- 
ton,  Miss. 

SOUTHERN  STYLE  CORN  PONE 
Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  meal,  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  heaping  ta- 
blespoonful of  lard,  a  heaping  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  one 
level  teasponful  of  soda,  two  cupsful  of  buttermilk  ;  in  sifting  meal,  add 
the  soda,  salt  and  sugar ;  rub  lard  in  well ;  add  buttermilk,  stir  quickly, 


m 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


mold  into  pones,  put  in  well-greased  pans.  Bake  in  hot  oven  ;  serve  hot. 
Mrs.  E.  H.  Mackenzie,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

GINGER  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  each  of  sugar  and  butter,  one 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of 
soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  egg.  Stir  molasses,  sugar  and  but- 
ter together,  put  soda  in  boiling  water ;  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  stir 
thoroughly,  add  flour  and  ginger,  and  last,  beat  in  the  egg.  In  a  shallow 
pan,  this  will  bake  in  about  one-half  hour. — Mrs  G.  T.  Penney,  Inde- 
pendence, Texas. 

HARD  GINGER  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  in  three  tablespoonsful  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  gin- 
ger, and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  flour.  Use  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  in  sheets  and  mark  off  into  checks. 
Bake  quickly.  Glaze  with  a  spoonful  of  molasses  and  milk  after  baking. 
— Thornton  Pearl  Hall,  Acworth,  Ga. 

MOLASSES  GINGER  BREAD 
Two  cupsful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sour  buttermilk,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger  and  a  pinch  of  black 
pepper.   Butter  or  cottolene  about  the  size  of  an  egg  and  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  dough.   Bake. — Mrs.  Lena  Hatton,  Sarah,  Miss. 

MOTHER'S  GINGER  BREAD 
Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  finish  filling  cup  with  syrup,  a  half 
teaspoonful  each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon,  two  even  teaspoonsful  of 
soda,  a  half  cupful  of  water,  two  tablespoonsful  of  lard.  Work  out  with 
just  enough  flour  to  handle  easily.  Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. — Mrs. 
Alue  Patterson,  Santo,  Texas. 

OLD-FASHIONED  GINGER  BREAD 
Two  cupsful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  buttermilk, 
one  cupful  of  lard  or  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  pulverized  ginger,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Flour  to  make  stiff 
dough,  roll  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Jennison,  Alex- 
ton,  La. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 
Two  cupsful  of  black  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  six  rounded  cups  of  flour.  Raisins 
and  nuts  make  a  nice  addition  to  this. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Burdick,  Trout,  La. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  and  a  fourth  cups- 
ful of  shortening,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  four  cupsful  of 
flour,  spice  to  suit  taste,  and  last  of  all,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
Batter  will  be  thin,  but  bake  as  directed.— Mrs.  F.  McFarland,  Pinel- 
las Park,  Fla. 

GINGER  BREAD 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  water,  one 
egg,  a  half  cupful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  the  water, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  one  quart  of  flour,  and 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon,  cloves,  spices  and  ginger  and 
a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.   Part  of  the  spices  may  be  omitted  and  ex- 


BREAD 


59 


tract  used.  May  be  made  without  eggs. — Mrs.  M.  T.  Wiley,  Mission, 
Texas. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 
One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  but- 
ter, one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
flour.  Add  two  well-beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before  baking. — Miss 
Mabtha  Edmundson,  Bay  Minette,  Ala. 

LIGHT  BREAD 

One  yeast  cake  to  a  quart  of  warm  water,  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
salt  and  sugar.  Make  the  batter  in  the  morning  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
till  evening,  or  make  in  evening  and  let  stand  till  morning ;  pour  the  bat- 
ter in  flour  with  same  amount  of  sugar  and  salt  as  before,  and  lard  as  for 
biscuits.  Let  rise  in  pan,  then  work  and  beat ;  the  more  it  is  beaten  the 
better  it  is.  Make  into  loaves  or  rolls  and  let  rise.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  as  for  bread. — Mrs.  J.  H.  McAnn,  Jaclcsboro,  Texas. 

LIGHT  BREAD  (WITH  RICE) 
Set  yeast  to  rise  overnight  in  the  usual  way.  In  the  morning  put  one 
cupful  of  rice  and  three  pints  of  water  on  to  boil.  When  rice  is  well 
done,  drain  off  the  water  and  let  cool.  When  cool,  add  one  quart  of  fresh 
sweet  milk  that  has  been  scalded  and  cooled,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  lard,  and  enough  of  warm  flour, 
in  which  one  pint  of  corn  starch  has  been  sifted,  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Knead  well  and  let  rise  twice  before  baking.  This  makes  four  loaves. — 
Miss  Blaib  Allen,  Bryant,  Ark. 

LIGHT  BREAD  (WHEAT  BRAN  USED) 
Scald  three  cupsful  of  sweet  milk  with  three  cupsful  of  hot  water, 
and  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonsful  of  salt, 
and  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  meal.  When  cool  enough  to  bear  the 
hand  in,  thicken  with  wheat  bran  and  set  out  in  sun  to  rise.  When  risen 
and  cracked  on  top,  take  in  and  strain,  and  make  up  dough  with  the 
yeast,  adding  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  little 
shortening.  Put  dough  in  sun,  and  when  risen  to  twice  its  thickness, 
put  in  stove  and  bake.  I  make  it  in  winter  by  keeping  the  vessel  con- 
taining the  yeast  in  warm  water,  just  hot  enough  to  bear  the  hand  in, 
and  raising  the  bread  in  the  stove.  This  recipe  makes  a  large  loaf.— 
Mbs.  W.  C.  McMubey,  Canon,  Ga. 

LIGHT  BREAD 
At  night,  after  supper,  take  one  quart  of  luke-warm  water  and  dis- 
solve a  yeast  cake  in  it ;  put  in  about  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and 
one  of  salt ;  thicken  with  flour  to  a  stiff  batter  and  set  away  until  next 
morning.  It  will  not  rise  much  but  will  be  full  of  little  bubbles.  Sift 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  put  in  one  and  a  half  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar  and  a  lump  of  lard  the  size  of  an  egg ;  then  mix  to  a  stiff  dough. 
Set  it  to  rise ;  let  rise  till  it  doubles  its  size,  then  work  down  in  a  little 
flour.  Work  it  a  good  while,  then  loaf  it  and  put  in  baking  pan  and  let 
rise  again  until  it  doubles  its  size,  and  then  bake.  When  done,  grease  the 
nice  brown  top  with  butter  to  prevent  its  being  tough. — Mbs.  Chas. 
Callahan,  Pisgah,  Ala. 

LIGHT  BREAD 
Take  one  cup  of  fresh  milk,  in  the  morning,  add  two  cupsful  of  hot 
water,  a  little  salt,  a  small  handful  of  meal  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.   Put  in  a  vessel  and  then  set  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water 


GO 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  keep  just  warm  enough  to  bear  your  hand  in.  In  about  four  hours 
put  in  a  pinch  of  soda  and  a  little  meal.  When  it  rises,  make  your  dough, 
adding  lard  and  a  little  warm  water  and  salt.  Set  to  rise  in  a  warm 
place.  When  it  rises  put  it  to  bake  in  hot  stove. — Mks.  Lena  Hatton, 
Sarah,  Miss. 

SALT-RISING  LIGHT  BREAD 
One  pint  of  fresh  sweet  milk,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  beat  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  let  stand  till  about  9  o'clock,  then  beat  again 
and  set  in  the  warm  sunshine,  or  in  a  vessel  of  warm  water.  Let  rise, 
sift  what  flour  you  want,  add  salt  and  butter  about  the  size  of  a  hen's 
egg,  and  make  up.  Make  into  a  loaf,  let  rise,  then  bake,  being  careful 
not  to  shake  either  yeast  or  bread. — Mary  Webb,  Fulton,  Miss. 

OLD-FASHIONED  LIGHT  BREAD 
Pour  three  cupsful  of  boiling  water  over  three  cupsful  of  sweet  milk. 
Let  stand  till  warm  enough  to  allow  finger  in  without  burning.  Add  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  soda,  salt ;  stir  in  two  tablespoonsful  of 
corn  meal,  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  stand  till  it  rises. 
Then  add  lard  and  work  in  flour  and  make  into  loaves  and  bake  in  mod- 
erately warm  oven. — Miss  Sara  Henderson,  Griffin,  Qa. 

OLD-TIME  LIGHT  BREAD 
Take  one  cup  of  boiled  sweet  milk,  skim  while  boiling  and  add  corn 
meal  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Let  set  overnight  in  a  warm  place.  Next 
morning  add  a  cup  of  warm  water  and  a  cup  of  fresh  milk ;  stir  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  set  in  warm  place,  let  it  rise,  then  sift  flour 
in  tray,  pour  in  the  batter.  Take  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  make  a  itiff  dough, 
then  put  in  baking  pans  and  set  in  warm  place  and  let  rise.  Put  in  the 
•ven  and  bake,  and  as  soon  as  it  starts  to  brown,  rub  butter  over  the  top 
of  it,  which  will  make  it  moist. — Mrs.  Eva  Cloer,  Ethelsville,  Ala. 

LIGHT  BREAD 
After  mixing  the  sponge  for  light  bread,  before  setting  it  to  rise,  try 
grinding  it  several  times  through  the  meat  or  food  chopper,  using  the 
coarse  plate  and  leaving  out  the  cutter ;  it  makes  the  bread  finer-grained 
and  the  dough  may  be  shaped  into  loaves  at  once,  and  when  light  it  is 
ready  for  the  oven  without  a  second  kneading. — Mrs.  R.  T.  Steele, 
Wagram,  N.  C. 

TOAST 

Use  a  loaf  of  bread  sliced  three-fourths  of  an  inch  thick.  Take  one 
egg,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk  or  thin  cream,  one  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  and  beat  together  until  light,  dip  slices  of  bread  in,  turn  on 
both  sides,  then  drop  in  hot  butter  and  fry  light  brown,  add  sprinkle  of 
cinnamon  before  serving — Mrs.  A.  M.  Adams,  Macon,  Miss. 

FRENCH  TOAST 
Break  four  eggs  in  a  dish,  salt,  pepper  and  beat  well.    Slice  bread 
thin  and  dip  quickly  in  the  egg ;  fry  a  deep  brown  in  hot  butter.  Serve 
hot  for  breakfast. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Kendall,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

TOMATO  TOAST 
Put  in  a  shallow  baking  pan,  one  inch  layer  of  biscuit  crumbs,  with 
a  liberal  amount  of  sugar  stirred  through  it,  and  dot  on  top  with  bits  of 
butter  and  a  light  sprinkle  of  nutmeg.    Set  in  stove  to  brown  nicely ; 
take  out,  cover  the  toast  with  well-sweetened  stewed  tomatoes  and  put 


BREAD 


(Jl 


on  more  bits  of  butter.  Set  back  in  stove  to  bake  awhile. — Mrs.  J.  G. 
Pattillo,  LaOrange,  Oa. 

GERMAN  TOAST 
To  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  add  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  three 
eggs  (well  beaten),  and  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.    Slice  stale  bread 
and  dip  in  this  mixture  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  Jas.  McNab,  Doug- 
las, Oa. 

YEAST  FOR  BREAD 
Dissolve  one  cake  in  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  lukewarm  water. 
Sift  flour  and  add  one  and  a  half  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  salt  and  lard, 
then  knead  well.  Grease  a  gallon  vessel,  into  which  put  dough,  then 
wrap  and  set  in  sun  to  rise.  In  hot  weather  it  will  be  ready  to  bake  in 
seven  hours. — Mrs.  T.  B.  Reeves,  Loranc,  Oa. 

YEAST  CAKES 
Let  one  cupful  of  buttermilk  come  to  a  boil,  when  luke-warm  dis- 
solve Magic  yeast  cake,  add  meal  for  stiff  batter,  then  set  to  rise  over- 
night.   In  the  morning,  add  meal  and  make  cakes.    You  can  use  one  of 
these  cakes  for  a  fresh  start  next  time. — Mrs.  T.  B.  Reeves,  Lorane,  Oa. 

NEVER-FAIL  YEAST 
Boil  thi'ee  good-sized  Irish  potatoes.  When  tender  mash  fine  and  add 
enough  water  to  make  one  quart.  When  luke-warm  add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mixed  together;  lastly,  add 
•ne-half  of  a  Magic  yeast  cake  (mashed  fine).  Set  away  in  covered  ves- 
sel and  when  the  potato  rises  to  the  top  it  is  ready  for  use  and  will  keep 
for  weeks  in  a  cool  place, — Mrs,  W.  R.  Shannon,  Jefferson,  8.  C. 


62 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


MUFFINS 


FLOUR  MUFFINS 
Sift  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  sugar,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Beat  one  egg,  add 
nearly  one  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  two  tablespoonsf ul  of  melted  butter ; 
mix  with  flour  and  pour  in  hot  gem  pans.  Cook  in  hot  stove. — Mes. 
A.  R.  Waee,  Greenville,  8.  C. 

FLOUR  MUFFINS 
Three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  (the  sugar  is  not  absolutely 
necessary),  three  tablespoonsf  ul  of  melted  butter  or  lard,  a  little  salt. — 
Mbs.  Glenn  Baxteb,  Louisville,  Ala. 

PUFF  MUFFINS 
One  pint  of  flour,  one  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs.  Break  the  eggs  in  a 
bowl.  Beat  very  lightly ;  add  flour  with  a  little  salt  and  then  milk  and 
flour,  alternately,  until  batter  is  light  and  well-mixed.  It  should  not  be 
thicker  than  buttermilk.  Have  muffin  pan  heated  on  top  of  stove  ;  grease 
well  with  sweet  lard,  and  half  fill  with  the  batter.  Cook  quickly  in  a 
well-heated  oven.  Do  not  put  lard  in  them. — Miss  iJell  Cook,  Vicks- 
ourg,  Miss. 

RICE  MUFFINS 
Beat  together  two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  cold,  cooked,  seasoned  rice. 
Add  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Stir  thoroughly  and  put  into  hot  gem  pans,  filling  them  full.    Bake  in 
moderate  oven  for  a  half  hour. — Mbs.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 


ROLLS 


ft3 


ROLLS 


ROLLS 

Mix  two  scant  teacups  of  warm  iniJk  and  a  half  cupful  of  liquid 
yeast,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  oue  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  lard  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Mix  into  a  rather  stiff  dough  and  knead  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Grease  a  deep  pan  or  bowl,  and  also  grease  dough  all 
over.  Put  in  greased  vessel  and  place  in  warm  place ;  let  rise  to  double 
its  size,  knead  down  and  make  into  rolls ;  set  aside  to  rise,  and  when 
risen,  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Shannon,  Jefferson,  8.  C. 

BUTTER  ROLLS 
Three  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Boil 
five  minutes.  Take  a  piece  of  biscuit  dough  the  size  of  a  large  cocoanut 
and  roll  thin,  cut  in  strips  two  inches  wide,  dot  with  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  then  roll  up  strips,  set  in  deep  pie  pan  with  one  cupful  of 
boiled  milk ;  brown  nicely  and  serve  with  rest  of  the  milk. — Mrs.  T.  W. 
Cantrell,  Liberty,  8.  G. 

BUTTER  ROLLS 
Take  a  small  bit  of  pastry  or  biscuit  dough.  Roll  thin  and  spread 
thickly  with  butter,  then  sprinkle  thickly  over  one-half  of  the  dough 
some  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg,  or  any  desired  flavor,  then  fold  over  other 
half  of  dough.  Pinch  edges  tightly  together  and  bake  quickly  in  a  hot 
oven.  When  done,  spread  butter  over  tops  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
serve. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Baker,  Ozark,  Ala. 

LIGHT  ROLLS 

The  day  before  making  the  rolls,  about  10  o'clock,  make  the  yeast 
as  follows :  One-half  cake  of  yeast  foam  dissolved  in  two  cupsful  of 
warm  water,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter;  keep  in  warm  place  to  rise. 
About  10  o'clock  the  following  morning  sift  flour  in  pan  or  tray  as  for 
biscuits,  use  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  add  the  yeast  and  knead 
fifteen  minutes,  put  in  a  warm  place  and  let  rise  for  three  hours,  then 
knead  down  and  let  rise  to  double  its  size,  knead  again  and  make  into 
rolls,  or  use  part  in  a  loaf ;  let  rise  one  hour  and  bake  in  slow  oven  at 
first,  increasing  heat. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Adams,  Macon,  Miss. 

LIGHT  ROLLS 
To  make  these  for  the  evening  meal  begin  about  10  o'clock  in  the 
morning  by  dissolving  one  cake  of  dry  yeast  in  one  quart  of  luke-warm 
milk,  stir  in  one  cupful  of  flour,  let  rise  a  half  hour ;  add  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter  and  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  the 
same  of  sugar,  and  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  you  can.  Stir,  let  rise  until 
after  dinner;  flour  your  bread-board  well ;  turn  out  your  dough  and  roll 
out,  handling  as  little  as  possible.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  dip  in  melted 
butter  and  fold  over,  let  rise  until  tea  time.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 


% 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


about  twenty  minutes.  This  recipe  will  make  over  100  rolls,  which  are 
delicious  to  the  taste. — Yiyiax  Beastly,  ILinden,  La. 

LIGHT  AND  DELICIOUS  ROLLS 
Dissolve  one  yeast  cake  in  a  teacupful  of  luke-warm  water.  In  an- 
other vessel  make  a  paste  of  one  cupful  of  water  and  flour  sufficient  to 
make  it  the  thickness  of  cream.  In  this,  beat  two  eggs  as  light  as  can 
be,  and  add  one  tabiespoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  and  one  of  lard ; 
mix  with  the  dissolved  yeast  and  let  stand  overnight.  Thy  next  morn- 
ing, sift  any  quantity  of  flour  desired  and  make  up  with  the  yeast  and 
luke-warm  water.  Knead  and  beat  with  rolling  pin  until  the  dough 
"blisters"  in  places  as  it  is  kneaded.  Set  aside  until  it  rises,  then  knead 
once  more,  make  into  rolls,  grease  each  one  well  as  it  is  placed  in  the 
pan  and  set  aside  to  rise  before  baking.  This  is  the  finest  bread  I  ever 
tasted. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Rust,  Pelican,  La. 

FRESH  ROLLS  • 
Put  into  one  pint  of  scalded  milk,  while  hot,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  tabiespoonful  of  butter  ;  when  cool  add  a  little  salt,  one  cake  of  yeast 
(dissolved)  in  a  little  warm  water,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  sponge. 
Let  it  rise  as  for  bread,  then  punch  it  down  with  the  hand.  Repeat 
this  two  or  three  times.  Then  turn  it  out  on  a  bread  board  and  pound 
with  a  rolling  pin  thin  enough  to  cut  out  with  a  tumbler.  Brush  with 
melted  butter  and  let  rise  in  pan.  Bake  and  while  warm  brush  again 
with  melted  butter  to  make  crust  tender. — Mes.  Mamie  Cumming, 
Albany,  Ky. 

CINNAMON  ROLLS 
When  making  pies,  I  take  what  pie  crust  is  left,  roll  out,  spread 
with  butter,  then  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.    Roll  up  in  a  roll, 
cut  with  a  knife,  and  bake  the  rolls  with  the  cut  side  placed  vertically  in 
the  pan. — Mes.  J.  B.  Tyneb,  Williston,  Fla. 

CHERRY  ROLL 
Stone  one  quart  of  cherries  and  set  aside  until  pastry  is  made.  For 
this,  use  one  quart  of  flour,  one  cooking  spoonful  of  unmelted  lard,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Save 
enough  of  the  flour  to  roll  the  dough.  Roll  very  thin ;  then  spread  the 
cherries  over  the  surface.  Over  them  sprinkle  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  sugar,  small  bits  of  butter  until  a  piece  the  size  of  an  egg  has  been 
used.  Commence  at  edge  nearest  you  and  roll,  keeping  the  ends  pinched 
together  to  prevent  cherries  from  falling  out.  Place  roll  in  pan,  sprinkle 
generously  with  sugar  and  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  the 
same.  Bake  in  hot  oven  and  baste  often  with  the  liquid  while  cooking. 
If  preferred,  this  quantity  may  be  separated  into  two  rolls,  which  are 
easier  to  handle.  About^  45  minutes  are  required  for  baking. — Mrs. 
Saelie  M.  R.  Lakg,  Sandersville,  Ga. 

JELLY  ROLL 

Sift  one  cup  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful 
of  baking  powder.  Break  two  eggs  in  bowl  and  beat  until  light,  add  a 
half  cup  of  cold  water,  flavor  with  lemon.  Add  flour,  baking  powder, 
and  sugar,  then  beat.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  When  done,  turn  out  in 
sugared  cloth:  spread  with  jelly,  roll  at  once  in  the  cloth  around  it  to 
allow  it  to  steam. — Mes.  L.  C.  Alexaxdeu,  Greenville,  S.  C. 

JELLY  ROLL 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  add  one  and  a  half  teacupsful  of  sugar, 
one-half  teacupful  of  water,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  «f  salt  tad  ane  taa- 


9 


ROLLS 


65 


spoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly  and  stir  in  two  teacupsful  of  flour 
in  which  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  have  been  sifted,  and  lastly, 
mix  in  the  frothed  whites  of  three  eggs.  Pour  into  a  square  pan  to  the 
depth  of  an  inch  and  a  half.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  turn  out  on  a  wet  cloth,  spread  with  warm  jelly,  roll  and  put 
aside  to  cool. — Mrs-  J.  R.  Pittman,  Sandersville,  Ga. 

JELLY  ROLL 

Four  eggs  (beaten  light),  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  spread  thin  in  biscuit  pan 
(well  greased)  ;  cook  in  hot  oven;  spread  with  jelly  or  icing  and  roll 
quickly.  This  is  good  to  use  when  you  want  a  quick  cake. — Mbs.  H.  P. 
Salt, ft,  Antreville,  8.  C. 

JELLY  ROLL 

Two  eggs  and  one  cup  of  sugar  (beaten  together),  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  flour  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  water.  Cook  in  a  long  bread  pan  on  greased  paper. 
Turn  out  while  hot  on  a  sugared  paper.  Spread  on  the  jelly  and  roll 
thickly  while  hot — Mas.  O.  C.  Jennison,  Alexton,  La. 

ORANGE  ROLL 
Make  a  good,  rich  pastry,  roll  out  in  a  thin  sheet;  sprinkle  with 
oranges  prepared  as  follows :  Peel  six  or  more  oranges,  split  open  each 
section,  with  knife  or  fork  loosen  meat  from  the  white  part  or  it  will 
be  bitter.  After  getting  the  meat  out,  drain  off  juice,  in  a  separate 
bowl,  discarding  seeds.  Take  the  meat  of  oranges,  spread  on  pastry, 
with  generous  amount  of  butter  and  sugar  over  the  oranges,  then 
sprinkle  or  sift  with  flour;  roll  up  and  put  in  a  well-greased  pan.  Place 
in  stove  to  dry  out  pastry ;  pour  the  juice  over  the  roll  and  a  sprinkle 
of  sugar  and  butter  over  the  top,  add  a  small  quantity  of  water  to  the 
juice.  Leave  in  stove  until  a  nice  brown.  If  not  juice  enough  to  make 
its  own  sauce,  make  a  rich  sauce  of  sugar  and  butter.  Serve  hot — Mrs- 
Nellie  Craig  Bradshaw,  Fairmount,  Tenn. 

PEACH  ROLL 

Cook  dried  peaches  and  mash  fine.  To  one  teacupful  of  fruit  put 
one  cup  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  spice.  Have  smooth 
dough,  roll  it  thin,  and  spread  the  peaches  on  and  make  rolls.  Place 
in  pan,  adding  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk 
and  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water.  Place  in  stove  and  bake. — Mrs. 
J.  W.  Hamilton,  Choudrant,  La. 

PINEAPPLE  ROLL 
Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Mix  and  bake  as  for  jelly  roll  and  spread  on  the  following : 
one  pint  can  or  one  cupful  of  grated  fresh  pineapple,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Heat  the  fruit  and  add 
sugar  to  taste.  When  boiling  add  cornstarch  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Cool  a  little.  Spread  on  cake  and  roll  quickly. — Mrs.  P.  H.  Roefs, 
Gainesville,  Fla. 


66 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


BUNS 


TEA  BUNS 

One  cupful  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of 

butter,  one  cupful  of  light  bread  sponge.  Mix  well  and  let  stand  until 
very  light  knead  thoroughly ;  again  set  to  rise  before  forming  into  bis- 
cuit. When  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Miss  Eva  Eldeed, 
Foley,  Ala. 

BUNS 

Beat  two  eggs  (light),  add  a  spoonful  of  lard  and  beat  again,  add 
three  gills  of  fresh  milk,  a  little  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar ;  beat 
in  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  add  a  good  half  teacupful  of  leaven  and 
beat  light  and  smooth ;  put  in  greased  pan  and  let  rise  to  twice  the 
original  size.   Bake. — Mbs.  A.  B.  Andrews,  Wellington,  8.  G. 

LONDON  BUNS 
Three  cupsful  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
salt,  five  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and  grated  orange  rind,  add  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  to  the  flour,  mix  in  the  sugar,  and 
salt,  and  sift  three  times.  Rub  in  butter,  then  add  eggs  after  beating 
yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  reserving  one  tablespoonful  of  white  to 
be  mixed  with  milk  for  rubbing  over  buns  before  cooking.  Add  milk 
and  grated  orange  rind,  cutting  it  in  with  heavy  knife.  Place  dough  on 
bread  board  and  continue  the  chopping  with  knife  until  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  having  them  rather  thick. 
Place  in  buttered  pan,  rub  over  with  egg  and  milk  mixture  and  bake 
about  fifteen  minutes  in  hot  oven. — Mbs.  K.  M.  Cook,  Bovina,  Miss. 


OEMS 


07 


GEMS 


GRAHAM  GEMS 
Take  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  that  has  not  been  skimmed,  and  beat 
in  enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  salt.  Bake  in  cast-iron 
gem  pans,  and  have  the  pans  hot  before  putting  in  a  hot  oven.  Have 
the  milk  cold,  and  beat  hard,  to  get  in  as  much  air  as  possible  while 
adding  the  flour,  and  they  will  be  as  light  as  though  raised  with  baking 
powder. — Mbs.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

BREAKFAST  GEMS 
Soak  a  half  yeast  cake  in  warm  water  until  soft,  take  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  heat  until  scalding  hot,  thicken  with  flour.  Beat  in  yeast 
cake,  one  egg,  one  tabiespoonful  of  sugar,  add  water  to  make  the  quan- 
tity desired,  then  stir  in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  let  stand 
overnight  in  a  warm  place.  Knead  flour  until  ready  to  roll ;  roll  thin, 
cut  and  sprinkle  over  with  sugar ;  let  stand  15  or  20  minutes.  Fry  in 
hot  grease  and  serve. — Mbs.  L.  Helm,  Oklaunion,  Texas. 


$8 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


CRULLERS 


FARMERS'  CRULLERS 
One-half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  two  cups  of  sour  milk,  three  cnps- 
ful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  nutmeg  or  lemon  flavor,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
in  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough ;  roll  thin  and  fry  in  a  kettle  of 
hot  grease.  Powder  with  sugar  while  hot — Mbs.  J.  Beaty,  Lament, 
Fla. 

CRULLERS 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  or 
lard,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  One  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  ground  cinnamon  to  taste. 
Mix  to  a  soft  dough.  Roll  and  cut  and  fry  in  deep,  hot  lard. — Anony- 
mous. 


SALLY  LUNN 


SALLY  LUNN 


SALLY  LUNN 

In  warm  weather  this  should  be  started  at  about  10  or  11  o'clock 
in  the  morning  to  be  ready  for  tea.  Use  a  half  cake  of  good  yeast,  soft- 
ened in  warm  water,  and  make  a  yeast,  not  too  thin,  of  a  pint  of  flour 
and  warm  water,  or  half  sweet  milk  and  water.  A  freshly  boiled  Irish 
potato  is  always  an  improvement  to  this,  or  any  kind  of  yeast  bread, 
and  must  be  well  mashed.  Beat  the  batter  thoroughly  and  set  to  rise 
in  a  warm  place  until  3  or  4  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  when  it  should  be 
well  risen.  Then  beat  in  a  half  cupful  of  creamed  butter,  two  eggs  and 
another  pint  of  flour,  with  salt  and  a  large  spoonful  of  sugar.  The 
batter  should  be  Very  stiff  and  after  beating  thoroughly  place  in  a  deep 
pan,  well  greased,  and  let  rise  until  light. — Mbs.  K.  M.  Cook,  Bovina, 
Mitt. 

SALLY  LUNN 

Sift  in  a  pan  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  add  two  ounces  of  but- 
ter, warmed  in  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  saltspoonful  of  salt,  three 
eggs  (well  beaten),  two  tablespoonsful  of  good  yeast.  Mix  well  to- 
gether, pour  in  a  greased  pan  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When 
fuite  light,  bake. — Miss  Lauba  Pickett,  Fitzpatriek,  Ala. 

SALLY  LUNN 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  three  leyel 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  as  thick  as  cake 
dough.  Bake  in  shallow  pans  or  muffin  rings.  Serve  hot  with  good  but- 
ter.— Mbs.  James  Wyly,  Dickson,  Tenn, 


TO 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


MARVELS 


MARVELS 

Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  flavoring,  lard  as 
for  biscuits.  Cream  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  milk,  then  put  lard 
in  flour  enough  to  mix  as  you  would  for  biscuits.  Roll  thin,  cut  in 
squares,  slice  nearly  all  the  way  through ;  twist  the  three  pieces  and 
press  the  ends  together.  Have  a  pan  of  boiling  lard  and  fry. — Fannie 
Cookrey,  Lamont,  Fla. 

MARVELS 

One  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  one  egg,  mix  in  enough  flour  to  roll 
out  very  thin,  cut  in  squares  with  slashes  across,  drop  in  boiling  lard ; 
drain  in  colander. — Mbs.  A.  B.  Andrews,  Willington,  8.  O. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 
One-half  cupful  of  lard,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  one  pound  of  grated 
cheese,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  papper,  flour  for  stiff  dough.    Roll  thin.    Cut  in  tiny 
strips  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jr.,  Teddy,  Ala. 


CRUSTS 


7J 


CRUSTS 


PASTRY  CRUST 
To  four  cupsful  of  flour  add  two  cupsful  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed 
one  cup  of  ice  water,  a  pinch  of  salt.   This  makes  four  pies. — Mrs.  C.  J. 
Goolsby,  Monticello,  Ga. 

PIE  CRUST 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  lard,  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  a  little  soda  and  salt.  Mix  baking  powder  and  soda 
in  the  flour.  Add  enough  cold  water  to  hold  together. — Miss  Eva  E. 
Eldred,  Foley,  Ala. 

PIE  CRUST 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  cupful  of  cold  water.  No  soda  nor  baking  pow- 
der.— Mrs.  Lottie  Porter,  St.  George,  8.  C. 

PIE  CRUST 

Put  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  into  five  cupsful  of  sifted  flour ;  add 
one  cupful  of  lard  or  butter,  then  mix  lightly  with  your  hands  until 
thoroughly  mixed.  It  will  be  mealy ;  add  one  cupful  of  water,  knead  as 
little  as  possible.  For  the  benefit  of  housekeepers  with  small  families, 
you  can  bring  this  recipe  down  to  five  or  ten  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one 
or  two  tablespoonsful  of  shortening  (spoons  to  be  heaping  full),  with 
water  enough  to  mix ;  enough  for  two  custards  or  one  plate  pie  with 
two  crusts. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Dean,  Gause,  Texas. 


n 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


STICKERS 


STICKERS 

Take  a  piece  of  biscuit  dough  and  roll  thin,  spread  on  after  creaming 
together  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter.  Roll  up  and 
cut  with  a  knife,  about  one  inch  thick.  Set  around  in  a  deep  pan  ;  grate 
nutmeg  over  them.  Cover  with  water  and  bake  a  nice  brown. — Mrs. 
T.  E.  Noeris,  Tuscaloos*,  Ala. 

STICKERS 

When  baking  pies,  there  is  usually  a  small  piece  of  dough  left.  Roll 
this  out  in  a  sheet  of  medium  thickness,  spread  some  baking  powder 
on  this  and  roll  in.  Next  put  in  some  butter,  sugar  and  ground  spice 
on  this  sheet  and  roll  up.  Then  cut  off  one  and  a  half  inch  cubes,  put 
in  a  well-buttered  pan  and  bake  brown. — Mbs.  J.  F.  SiGMON,  Weirt- 
dmle,  Fla. 


CEREALS 


78 


CEREALS 


BREAKFAST  DISH 
Into  two  quarts  of  rapidly  boiling  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt  stir  one  cup  of  Quaker  rolled  oats  and  one  cupful  of  corn  meal.  Let 
boil  thoroughly  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  burning ; 
then  add  one  cupful  of  Graham  flour,  stir  all  well  together  and  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes  longer.  When  ready  to  remove  from  the  fire,  drop  in 
two  eggs  and  stir  them  well  into  the  mixture.  Serve  with  cream  and 
sugar.  Thi»  will  be  enough  for  six  dishes. — Mbs.  L.  D.  Robinson, 
Yelatco,  Texas. 

LYE  HOMINY 

Put  a  third  as  much  corn  as  you  want  hominy  (as  it  swells  two- 
thirds  its  quantity  when  done)  in  a  pot  Put  hard  wood  ashes  into  a 
little  sack  made  of  cloth ;  put  in  the  corn  and  boil  until  the  skins  will 
slip.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  wash  until  the  water  is  clear.  Return 
to  the  fire  and  boil  until  tender.  Beat  fine  with  a  hominy  beater.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  butter  or  fat  fried  from  bacon. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Abeb- 
cbombii,  Douglaaville,  Ga. 


n 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


WAFFLES  AND  PANCAKES 


CREAM  WAFFLES 
One  pint  of  sour  cream,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoonfui 
of  corn  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  Beat 
it  all  together  until  very  light  Have  your  waffle  iron  very  hot  and  well 
greased ;  drop  in  a  big  tablespoonfui  of  batter.  When  a  rich  brown, 
turn  over  and  brown  on  the  other  side.  Serve  immediately  with  butter 
and  molasses. — Mbs.  John  McDowell,  Vernon,  La. 

WAFFLES 

One  tablespoonfui  of  lard,  one  quart  of  flour,  enough  milk  to  make 
a  rather  stiff  batter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  scald  a  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  and  beat  till  it  bubbles  and  is  thin  enough  to  spread. 
It  is  advisable  to  try  a  little  in  a  skillet  to  see  if  it  has  enough  soda,  as 
the  amount  of  soda  depends  on  how  sour  the  milk  is.  Cook  in  waffle 
irons. — Mbs.  C.  O.  Kagg,  Perry,  Ga. 

WAFFLES 

Melt  one  tablespoonfui  of  butter  in  mixing  bowl,  add  one  egg  and 
beat  lightly,  then  add  one  small  cup  of  milk.  Sift  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  in  one  cup  of  flour  and  stir  in  the  mixture.  Bake  on  hot, 
greased  waffle  irons. — Mbs.  Annie  M.  Floyd,  Asheville,  N.  C. 

OLD  VIRGINIA  PANCAKES 
One  pint  of  sifted  flour,  four  eggs  (beaten  very  light),  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  same  quantity  of  soda,  the  latter  mixed  just  before 
it  goes  into  the  buttermilk,  a  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  two  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  milk.  Beat  the  yolks  very  smooth,  stir  into  the  milk ;  then 
the  salt  and  soda  finally  with  a  few  swift  strokes,  the  flour  and  stiffened 
whites,  alternately.  Cook  in  large  cakes,  butter,  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar  or  spread  with  jelly  or  jam ;  roll  upon  itself  and  serve  at  once. — 
Miss  Olive  R.  Pickett,  FitzpatricJc.  Ala. 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


75 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 
One  cupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate,  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Heat  chocolate  and 
milk  together ;  add  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  cream ; 
flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  with  under  crust ;  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  of  whites  of  eggs  (beaten  stiff),  and  brown  deli- 
cately in  the  oven. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Prater,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  cupful  of  chocolate,  dissolved  in  a  little  boiling  water: 
four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.   Bake  in  one  crust.    Use  a  small 
cup. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Harris,  Camden,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
Three  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate,  stirred  into  one  cupful  of 
milk ;  heat  to  the  boiling  point ;  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch, 
dissolved  in  a  very  little  cold  milk.  Cook  until  the  milk  thickens,  re- 
move from  the  fire  and  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  with  four 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar;  add  a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla  extract.  Stir  all  together  until  light  and  bake  with  one 
crust — Mrs.  A.  C.  Cole,  Mountain  City,  Tenn. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
Yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  cold  water, 
six  teaspoonsfui  of  flour,  four  to  six  teaspoonsful  of  chocolate,  a  pinch 
of  salt  Flavor  with  vanilla;  stir  yolks  and  one  cup  of  water  together, 
add  sugar ;  stir  in  flour  and  another  cup  of  water  and  salt ;  put  on  stove 
and  boil  while  stirring  constantly.  Have  baked  crusts  and  pour  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  with  a  little  sugar.  Sprinkle  over  the 
top. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Wallis,  Gainesville,  Texas. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
Put  in  double  boiler,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate,  or  cocoa,  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  dash  of  salt,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch,  mixed  until  well  thickened.  While  the  filling  is  cooking, 
bake  the  pie  crust,  then  put  filling  in  crust  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
until  stiff,  adding  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Spread  over  the  top  of 
pie  and  place  in  oven  until  nicely  browned. — Mrs.  Arthur  Smithers, 
Bunnell,  Fla. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
A  delicious  chocolate  pie  is  made  with  one  pint  of  milk,  two  table- 
spoonsful of  grated  chocolate,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  Heat  the  milk  and  chocolate  together,  add  the  sugar 
and  yolks  and  beat  to  a  cream ;  flavor  and  bake  with  an  under-crust. 
Whip  the  whites  and  spread  on  top  and  brown  in  the  oven,  or  if  pre- 


76 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


ferred,  spread  whipped  cream  on  top  instead  of  the  whites  of  eggs. — 
Amy  E.  Spaee,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
Three  cupsful  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  flour,  three  tablespoonsful  of  chocolate.   Bake  in  one  crust. 
— Mrs.  V.  S.  Staneart,  Grand  Cane,  La. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 
One  pint  of  good,  rich,  sweet  milk,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  square  of  chocolate,  one  large  tablespoon- 
f  ul  of  corn  starch.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick ;  stir  to  keep 
from  lumping  while  cooking.  Bake  crust  before  you  make  the  filling, 
using  the  whites  on  top. — Mbs.  W.  H.  Dunlap,  Van  Buren,  Ark. 

COCOANUT  PIE 
Five  eggs,  leaving  out  four  whites  for  frosting ;  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  cream,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
cocoanut,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.    Bake  in  rich  crusts.   This  makes 
two  pies. — Mbs.  F.  E.  Wallis,  Gainesville,  Texas. 

COCOANUT  PIE 
Take  a  coffee  cup  of  cocoanut,  fill  with  sweet  milk  and  let  soak  a 
few  hours.  Mix  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  with  milk,  stir  in  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  milk  or  water ;  cook  slowly,  stirring  always,  until 
it  thickens  some,  but  not  too  thick ;  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
while  warm.  When  cool,  add  a  little  salt,  two  eggs,  saving  the  white 
of  one  for  top.  Sweeten  to  taste,  add  the  cocoanut,  beating  well.  Bake, 
and  when  done,  add  the  white,  beaten  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
Brown  slightly. — Mbs.  M.  J.  Beabd,  Brierfield,  Miss. 

COCOANUT  PIE 
Boil  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  stir  in  one  cup  of  grated  cocoanut; 
boil  ten  minutes,  take  from  the  fire  and  add  four  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  have  ready  a  pie  tin,  lined  with  rich 
pastry.  Pour  in  the  filling  and  add  a  few  lumps  of  butter  and  bake  till 
done.  Use  the  whites  of  eggs  for  the  frosting. — Mbs.  W.  P.  Ibby,  Pid- 
coke,  Texas. 

COCOANUT  PIE 
Two  eggs,  whites  and  yellow,  beaten  separately,  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk.    Beat  all  to- 
gether and  add  a  half  of  a  grated  cocoanut,  and  bake  with  one  crust — 
Mbs.  A.  Wheeler,  Summerville,  Ga. 

COCOANUT  PIE 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  pastry.  Fill  with  the  following  mixture : 
Mix  together  two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch  with  three- 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar;  then  add  two  cupsful  of  milk,  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  cocoanut,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  almond  extract,  the  grated 
rind  and  strained  juice  of  one  lemon.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  set 
— Lula  Howard,  Canton,  Ga. 

GOCOANUT  PIE 
Take  four  teaspoonsful  of  flour,  the  same  of  sugar,  stir  smoothly 
with  a  little  milk,  add  one  cupful  of  milk  to  this,  and  <*ok  in  a  foreaUio 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


77 


boiler  until  thick  ;  set  off  to  cool.  Add  to  this,  three  eggs  and  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  beaten  well :  add  enough  milk  to  make  three  cupsful. 
Flavor  with  lemon  and  one  cup  of  cocoanut.  Bake  in  one  crust.  This 
is  for  two  pies. — Miss  Sallie  Beaty,  Bartoick,  Oa. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD  PIE 
One  quart  of  milk,  six  eggs  (beaten  to  a  froth),  one-half  pound  of 
sugar,  one  cocoanut  (grated).   Cook  on  top  of  stove  until  it  boils.  Bake 
in  pie  pans  lined  with  pastry,  or  cook  as  a  custard.  Bake  in  oven. — Mrs. 
E.  Thompson,  Bayou  Chicot,  La. 

LEMON  P1H 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of 
a  cupful  of  water ;  two  tablespoonsf ul  of  flour,  one  grated  lemon.  Beat 
yolks  and  sugar  together  until  smooth.  Add  the  grated  lemon,  then  the 
flour,  and  lastly,  the  water.  Stir  well,  and  pour  in  pie  pans  lined  with 
pastry.  When  baked,  take  from  the  stove  and  spread  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth  with  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Return  to 
the  stove  and  brown.  This  will  make  two  pie3. — Miss  Rosa  Ferrill, 
Durham,  N.  C. 

LEMON  PIE 

Beat  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  to  a  cream.  Add  the 
grated  rind  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  then  one  cup  of  milk,  gradually. 
Then  fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake  in  one 
crust. — Mrs.  K.  A.  Leitneb,  Survey,  Fla. 

LEMON  PIE 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar;  beat  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether well,  then  add  two  cups  of  sweet  cream,  or  fresh  sweet  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  or  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  two  table- 
spoonsful of  melted  butter  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
and  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  and  put  on  top  of  pie  after  baking  and  brown 
lightly. — Mrs.  Peyton  H.  Colquitt,  Mira,  Le. 

LEMON  PIE 

One  lemon,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  but- 
ter half  the  size  of  an  egg,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  cream. — Mrs.  Clint 
Simmons,  Star  Hill,  La. 

LEMON  PIE 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  three  lemons,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar  to  each  lemon.    No  top  crust. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Kohn,  Wade,  Fla. 

LEMON  PIE 

Three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  boiling  water,  one  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  lemons  and 
a  little  cream  of  tartar  to  thicken ;  a  little  grated  lemon  peel  is  nice. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar ; 
spread  on  pie,  and  cook  to  a  light  brown  and  serve.  —  Mrs.  Willie 
Morgan,  Lockhart,  Texas. 

LEMON  PIE 

Into  a  deep  bowl,  grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  squeeze  the  juice 
ot  two.  Break  in,  gradually,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  and  add  one  level 
cup  of  sugar,  also  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  (flour  will  do  as 
well)  ;  after  this  is  well  mixed,  add  slowly,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Bake 
in  custard  pans  that  have  been  lined  with  rich  pastry.  While  cooking, 
t**t  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  half  cwpfal  of  sugar. 


7S 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  lemon  flavoring.  When  the  custard  has  cooked  sufficiently,  spread 
whites  on  and  brown  in  the  top  of  the  stove  with  door  open.  —  Miss 
Obie  Man-by,  Hogansville,  Ga- 

LEMON  PIE 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  cold  water,  four  eggs  (yolks),  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
sugar.  This  makes  two  pies ;  whip  the  whites,  add  three  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar.  Spread  over  top  of  pies  after  they  are  cooked ;  bake  a  deli- 
cate brown. — Mbs.  S.  H.  Mabshall,  Carrollton,  Miss. 

LEMON  PIE 

The  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  with  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  one- 
half  of  a  cupful  of  melted  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Put  mix- 
ture in  two  pie  pans,  lined  with  rich  pastry,  and  bake.  Then  add 
meringue  of  four  whites  of  eggs  (well  beaten),  and  four  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar,  flavored  with  lemon.  Bake  a  nice  brown. — Mbs.  C.  W. 
Bubch,  Port  Gibson,  Miss. 

LEMON  PIE 

Two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  rich  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  three  eggs,  save  the  whites  of  two  for  top  of  pie ;  two  crackers, 
pulverized  for  thickening;  one  good-sized  lemon. — Mbs.  W.  H.  Dun- 
lap,  Van  Bur  en,  Ark. 

LEMON  PIE  WITH  MERINGUE 
Mix  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  or  slightly  less  of  corn 
starch,  with  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  and  add  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  white  of  one,  the  grated  rind  of  half  and 
juice  of  one  large  lemon,  one  cupful  of  water.  Bake  it  in  plate  lined 
with  rich  crust  in  a  moderate  oven.  Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  with  one- 
half  of  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  till  very  stiff ;  pile  it  on  the  pie  and 
brown  it  slightly  in  oven. — Anonymous. 

LEMON  PIE 

First,  we  must  have  good  pastry  to  have  a  good  pie.  Pastry  for  Two 
Pies — Sift  two  cupsful  of  flour,  add  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  equal 
parts  of  lard  and  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  cupful 
of  ice  water.  Mix  rapidly  and  put  in  pie  pans  and  bake,  pricking  to 
prevent  air  blisters.  This  baking  before  putting  in  the  filling  will  in- 
sure a  crisp  pie.  Filling — Dissolve  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn 
starch  in  a  little  cold  water  and  stir  into  one  cupful  of  boiling  water, 
cook  until  clear,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  cupful 
of  sugar.  When  creamy,  take  from  the  fire,  and  when  it  cools  a  little, 
add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs.  Fill  the  crust  and  cover  with  the  meringue,  made  of  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff,  and  three  tablespoonsful  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Put  in  a  slow  oven 
and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. — Nona  Lawley,  Oakville,  Texas. 

LEMON  PIE 

To  three  cupsful  of  water  add  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  four 
heaping  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Put  on  the  stove  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  thickens.  Then  remove  and  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
four  lemons.  The  custard  is  now  ready  for  the  crusts,  which  I  make  up 
with  cold  water,  and  lard  enough  to  shorten.  Also  add  one  tablespoonful 
of  sour  cream,  roll  very  thin,  and  put  in  well-buttered  pie  plates,  and 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


7!) 


bake  a  light  brown.  If  the  crust  should  puff  up,  take  a  wet  cloth  and 
gently  press  down ;  remove  from  oven  when  light  brown  and  put  the 
custard  on  crusts,  then  bake  about  five  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of 
tho  four  esga  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Spread 
this  thickly  over  pies  and  bake  a  light  brown.  This  amount  is  sufficient 
for  three  small  or  two  large  pies. — Mrs.  Bessie  Proctor,  Keysvllle,  Fla. 

LEMON  PIE 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  large  lemon,  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
well  beaten,  separately,  using  the  yolks  and  saving  the  whites  for  frost- 
ing; one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  water  and  three  tablespoons- 
ful  of  flour.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  water,  yolks  of  eggs  and  lemon,  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  Have  crust  baked,  pour  in  the  filling, 
cover  with  the  whites,  whipped  stiff,  with  two  or  three  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar  and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Childers,  Wil- 
liston,  Fla. 

LEMON  PIE 

Cook  four  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch  in  one  pint  of  water.  Rub 
one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  in  one  teacupful  of  sugar;  add  two 
well-beaten  eggs,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  in  the  cooked  corn  starch. 
Bake  with  one  crust  This  is  enough  for  two  pies. — Mrs.  S.  E.  Man- 
sell,  Sydney,  Fla. 

LEMON  PIE 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  two  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch,  one  cup  of 
water ;  cook  corn-starch  in  the  water,  add  sugar  and  eggs,  reserving  the 
white  of  one  egg  (well  beaten)  for  meringue.  Have  a  nice  crust  baked, 
fill  with  mixture  cooked  till  thick,  put  on  meringue  and  brown  lightly. — 
Mrs.  L.  J.  Abel,  Phoenix,  Miss. 

LEMON  PIE 

Five  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful of  flour,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons.  Beat  eggs 
and  sugar  together,  add  flour  and  butter,  then  the  lemon.  Bake  in  one- 
crust — Mrs.  J.  F.  Harris,  Camden,  Ale. 

LEMON  PIE 

One  grated  lemon,  and  the  juice ;  into  this  put  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour  (mixed 
with  cold  water),  and  one  cupful  of  hot  water.  Cook  this  till  it  thick- 
ens, stirring  all  the  time  to  keep  from  scorching.  Have  a  nice  pie 
crust  ready  baked ;  fill  with  this  mixture,  cover  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  tw7o  eggs  and  a  little  sugar.  Place  in  oven 
just  long  enough  to  get  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  cold. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Ed- 
wards, Knoaville,  Oa. 

LEMON  PIE 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  two  large  lemons ;  six  eggs :  reserve  the  whites  of  three, 
and  add  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Beat  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Spread 
on  the  top  of  the  pies  when  done ;  brown  again. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Hoobler, 
Townley,  Ala. 

LEMON  PIE 

Put  the  crust  intended  for  the  pie  into  a  deep  plate.  Stir  one  table- 
spoonful of  corn  starch  into  a  littl*  cold  water,  add  a  cup  of  boiling 


so 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


water,  let  all  boil,  then  add  seven  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  the  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons, 
and  bake.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth;  when  the  pie  is  baked,  spread  this  smoothly 
over  the  top,  then  set  in  the  oven  for  two  or  three  minutes.  This  is  long 
enough  to  give  it  the  desired  golden  brown  color. — Mes.  B.  F.  Sattee- 
white,  Oakhurst,  Texas. 

LEMON  PIE 

Five  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  eupsful 
of  water,  one-half  cupful  of  flour,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  juice  of 
two  large  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  one.  Reserve  three  whites  of 
eggs  and  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  for  meringue ;  beat  eggs,  sugar  and  but- 
ter to  a  cream.  Add  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  water  and  lemon  juice 
and  rind;  this  makes  two  large  or  three  small  pies.  Bake  in  plates 
lined  with  pie  crust  When  pies  are  set  and  light  brown,  spread  me- 
ringue over  them  and  leave  in  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  when  meringue 
should  be  a  delicate  brown. — Mes.  M.  H.  Ovebstbeet,  Attapulgus,  Ga. 

LEMON  PIE 

Grate  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  add  two  cupsful 
of  sugar,  yolks  of  five  eggs  (well  beaten),  and  four  tablespoonsful  of 
flour;  then  two  tablespoonsful  of  melted  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  one  cupful  of  water.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  dry  and  to  each 
white  use  one  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  Spread  on  pies  and 
brown  lightly. — Mbs.  O.  C.  Jenotson,  Alexton,  La. 

LEMON  CREAM  PIE 
For  crust,  rub  together  four  ounces  of  flour  and  two  ounces  of  lard ; 
mix  with  cold  water  and  bake  before  putting  in  filling.  Cream  Filling — 
Mix  three  ounces  «f  sugar,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  flour  with  two  eggs 
(beaten),  then  add  one  pint  of  hot  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  adding  the 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Frosting — Whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  sugar.  After  pie  has  cooled,  put  frosting  on  and  brown. — Mes. 
H.  H.  Keys,  Ingleside,  Texas. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  very  lightly  ;  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  one- 
half  teacupful  of  flour  mixed  with  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pint  of  buttermilk  ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  va- 
nilla. This  makes  three  pies.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  with  four  table- 
spoonsful of  white  sugar ;  a  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder  added  will 
keep  the  meringue  from  falling.  Spread  over  pies  when  done  and  bake  a 
delicate  brown. — Mbs.  A.  W.  Passman,  Greenville,  Ala. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE 
Six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  six  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  four  cups- 
ful of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  buttermilk,  just  after  churning,  while  the 
buttermilk  is  thick  and  fresh.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  separately ;  then  cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  yolks  of  eggs, 
still  beating,  flour,  milk,  and,  last,  the  whites  of  eggs ;  flavor  with 
lemon  juice  or  extract.  Bake  in  plates  on  rich  pie  crust ;  is  best  mixed 
with  lard  and  two  or  three  eggs  instead  of  water  or  milk.  A  very  little 
soda  or  baking  powder  is  used.  This  will  make  six  pies. — Mbs.  Susie 
P.  Wheat,  Wheat,  Miss. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE 
Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  butter- 
milk, two.  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


81 


tablespoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Bake  with  an  under-crust  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  rub  butter  aud  flour  together,  then  add  the  eggs 
and  sugar,  then  the  buttermilk,  last,  the  extract ;  frost  with  whites  of 
eggs  and  a  little  sugar  added. — Mrs.  Lenix  Swango,  Alaytoicn,  Ky. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE 
Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  butter,  two  spoonsfuls  of  flour.   Flavor  to  suit  taste.   Bake  on 
crust. — Mrs.  Emily  H.  Livingston,  McComb,  Miss. 

BUTTERMILK  PIE 
One  cupful  each  of  buttermilk  and  sugar,  three  eggs,  reserving  white 
of  one  for  frosting.  Beat  egg  and  sugar,  add  buttermilk  and  any  flavor- 
ing that  is  liked.  Bake  in  one  crust,  the  same  as  for  custard  pie.  Beat 
the  white  of  one  egg  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar ;  spread  on  pie 
when  done  and  brown  slightly. — Miss  Vivian  Hodges,  Gillis,  La- 

CARAMEL  PIE 
Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Mix  this 
with  a  little  water  and  boil  until  a  thick  syrup.  Then  mix  the  yellows 
of  three  eggs,  after  beating  them  awhile,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of 
flour  and  one  cup  of  rweet  milk  ;  beat  well  and  pour  into  the  syrup.  Let 
all  boil  again  as  thickly  as  custard  and  pour  in  crust  and  bake.  Save 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  go  on  top  of  pies.  This  makes  two  pies. — Mrs. 
Dave  Oatts,  Rankin,  Ky. 

CARAMEL  PIE 
Put  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  skillet 
to  brown,  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Let  cook  until  sugar  dis- 
solves ;  as  you  take  from  stove,  add  vanilla,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  and  bake  in  crust.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  well  and  add  five 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  return  to  oven  for  two  min- 
utes.— Mrs.  Emily  Easley,  Guntersville,  Ala. 

BLACKBERRY  PIE 
Gather,  pick  over,  and  wash  wild  berries  ;  then  prepare  the  dumplings 
in  the  following  manner :  Sift  flour,  add  salt  and  a  generous  amount 
of  shortening.  Put  your  soda  in  a  half  cupful  of  clabber  and  beat  well. 
Add  to  the  flour  and  shortening,  then  finish  making  up  with  clabber. 
Roll  the  dough  thin  and  cut  in  squares  or  strips,  line  the  pie  pan,  sides 
and  bottom,  with  the  dough.  Pour  in  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then 
a  layer  of  the  strips,  more  berries  and  sugar  till  the  pan  is  nearly  full, 
only  allowing  for  the  pie  to  rise.  Cover  with  the  strips  and  fill  with 
cold  water  till  you  can  see  water.  Bake  and  serve  with  plenty  of  rich 
cream. — Nancy  J.  Haven,  Bear,  La. 

CUSTARD  PIE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  flour ;  flavor  to  taste.  Stir  all  together  and  bake 
with  one  crust.  Take  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  well,  add  two  table- 
spoonsful of  sugar,  spread  over  pies  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown. 
This  makes  two  pies. — Mrs.  Allie  Patterson,  Santo,  Texas. 

CREAM  PIE 

Beat  pure  cream  till  very  stiff,  using  the  white  of  an  egg  if  it  fails 
to  whip  well.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Line 
your  custard  pans  with  rich  pastry  and  bake  them  in  the  oven  a  gol- 
den brown.   Reny-ve  from  the  oven,  place  on  plates,  and  when  cold,  put 


82 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


the  whipped  cream  on  the  pastry  shells  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden. 
When  ready,  serve  these  pies  like  any  other.— Miss  Obie  Manry, 
Eogansville,  Ga. 

CREAM  PIE 

Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  tea« 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk. — Maude  Barker, 
Davilla,  Texas. 

CREAM  PIE 

Sweet  cream,  one  cupful;  sugar,  eight  tablespoonsful ;  flour,  one 
tablespoonful ;  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  all 
creamed  together.  Bake  like  a  custard  or  put  strips  of  crust  across  the 
top. — Mary  B.  Zittranes,  Marlow,  Ga. 

CREAM  PIE 

Four  eggs,  one  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonsful  of  flour 
or  corn  starch,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  Mix  smooth  with  one  pint 
of  milk,  pour  into  two  pints  of  boiling  milk.  Use  flavoring.  Save  whites 
of  two  eggs  for  meringue.  This  makes  two  pies. — -Mrs.  Frank  Reed, 
Hilliard,  Fla. 

YELLOW  PIE 

lolks  of  five  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Season  with  extract  of  lemon.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  and  put 
on  top.  Bake  in  two  crusts. — Mrs.  L.  B.  Roberts,  Magnolia,  Miss. 

SORGHUM  CHESS  PIE 
One  large  cupful  of  sorghum,  one-half  cupful  of  butter  (or  more  if 
you  have  it),  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Beat  together  and  put  in  pie  pans 
lined  with  biscuit  dough  rolled  very  thin.  Bake  slowly  till  set,  then 
make  a  meringue  of  the  three  whites  of  eggs  and  use  as  usual. — Mrs. 
L.  M.  Yarbbough,  Cartersville,  Ga. 

CHESS  PIE 

Mix  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  with  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
sugar,  add  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  beat  well,  then  add  a  half  cupful  of  but- 
ter and  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  spread  on  top,  place  in  oven 
until  brown.  This  makes  two  pies. — Mrs.  Carrie  Bonds,  Blevins,  Ark. 

CHESS  PIE 

Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  oream  or  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Mix  the 
Sour  and  sugar,  add  the  butter  and  when  mixed  well,  add  the  yolks 
(beaten) ,  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Beat  well  and  then  add  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust  and 
pour  in  the  custard.  Bake  slowly  until  set  This  is  enough  for  two 
pies — Miss  Eloise  Tisdale,  Ohatawa,  Miss. 

EGG  PIE  WITHOUT  MILK 

Two  eggs,  one  spoonful  of  flour,  on  spoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg, 
one  cupful  of  cbld  water.  Save  whites  and  beat  stiff  with  two  spoonsful 
of  sugar  to  put  on  top  after  it  has  set,  and  brown. — Mrs.  Lottie  Por- 
ter, St.  George,  S.  C. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 
To  one  large  oupfuj  of  cranberries,  cut  in  halves,  add  one  cupful  of 
sugar*  a  half  cupful  of  water;  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  half  tm- 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


88 


spoonful  each  of  almond  and  vanilla  extract  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  with 
two  crusts,  or  one  crust  with  strips  on  top.  I  often  omit  the  flavoring. 
— Mrs.  F.  S.  Whitney,  Elkton,  Fla. 

EGG  PIE 

Fry  the  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  them.  Fry  enough  ham  or  some  lean 
meat  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Put  meat  in  bottom  of  the  pan, 
a  layer  of  dumplings  and  a  layer  of  eggs,  and  so  on,  until  you  have  the 
pan  filled ;  add  some  grease,  and  then  the  crust,  and  bake  as  you  would 
chicken  pie. — Mrs.  Lena  Bryan,  Osyka,  Miss. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE 
The  well-beaten  yolks  of  live  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar, 
three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter.  Beat  well  together  and  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Spread  this  mixture  on  a  nice,  light  paste,  rolled 
thin  ;  use  only  one  crust.  When  they  are  baked  brown,  have  the  whites 
well  beaten,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  flavored ;  spread  this  over  the 
pie,  and  bake  to  a  very  light  brown.  Cut  while  hot  to  prevent  falling 
This  will  make  two  pies. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Thompson,  Altoona,  Ala. 

TRANSPARENT  PIE 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  syrup ;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  lemon.    Make  a  short  pie 
crust. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Davis,  Irvine,  Fla. 

VINEGAR  PIE 

One  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  vinegar, 
one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  three  cupsful  of  water.  Flavor  with 
lemon  and  boil  all  together,  stir  almost  constantly  to  prevent  burning. 
Let  cool,  and  make  crust,  baking  like  custard  pie. — Mrs.  Kellar  Max- 
well, St,  Petersburg,  Fla. 

VINEGAR  PIE 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  flour.  Cream  this  together  and  add  one-third  of  a  cupful 
of  good  vinegar  and  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  boiling  water.  Flavor 
with  nutmeg  and  bake  in  three  crusts.  When  the  mixture  boils  up 
clear  in  the  crust,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  and  return  to  the 
oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Allen,  Lexington,  Texas. 

VINEGAR  PIE 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  boiling 
water,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three 
tablespoonsful  of  good  vinegar,  two  teaspoonsful  of  butter ;  flavor  with 
lemon.  Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  frost  the  tops  and  bake  with  one 
crust.  Flour  may  be  used  instead  of  corn  starch. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Hughey, 
Calhoun,  Oa. 

VINEGAR  PIE 

Make  dough  as  for  biscuits,  roll  thin,  cut  in  strips,  take  one-half  of 
a  cupful  of  good  vinegar,  two  cupsful  of  water,  one  pint  of  sugar.  Mix, 
put  a  layer  of  dough,  then  some  of  the  vinegar  water,  then  more  dough 
until  all  the  vinegar  has  been  used,  flavor  with  spice,  then  pour  boiling 
water  to  cover.  Set  in  the  oven  as  for  other  pies.  Serve  with  sweet 
cream. — Miss  C.  L.  Hodnett,  Colfax,  La. 

FRUIT  CUSTARD  PIE 
Make  a  rich  short  crust  and  line  your  pie  plate.    Have  ready  a  nice 
apple  sauce  of  either  green  or  evaporated  apples.   Do  not  have  the  sauce 


S4 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


too  sweet  Spread  the  sauee  in  pie  plate  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch. 
Make  a  custard  of  one  whole  egg,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a 
cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  small  bit  of  but- 
ter, a  pinch  of  baking  powder.  Beat  until  very  light,  pour  over  the 
apple  sauce  and  place  in  oven  to  bake.  For  meringue,  beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  add  two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of 
one  juicy  lemon.  When  the  pie  is  done,  spread  the  meringue  over  the 
pie  and  return  to  stove  and  bake  a  light  brown. — Mes.  Dora  McCob- 
mick,  Pine  Grove,  La. 

GRAPEFRUIT  PIE 
Cut  the  grapefruit  in  half,  crosswise,  and  scoop  out  the  pulp,  being 
careful  not  to  get  any  of  the  white,  as  that  is  bitter.  Mix  with  the  pulp 
and  juice  of  six  large  ones,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  water,  two  cupsful 
of  sugar  (or  more  if  desired),  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg  or 
other  spices  to  taste.  Thicken  with  a  half  cupful  of  corn  starch  or 
flour  and  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  Bake  with  two  crusts,  slowly,  until 
brown. — Agnes  Adams,  Auburndale,  Fla. 

CUSTARD  PIE 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  very  stiff ;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs 
and  beat  thoroughly  again.  Add  four  level  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and 
a  generous-sized  pint  bowl  of  good,  rich  milk.  Flavor  to  taste,  nutmeg 
preferred.  Care  in  cooking  is  the  key  to  success.  The  oven  must  be 
sufficiently  hot  to  bake  the  crust  quickly  and  to  set,  but  not  boil  the 
custard.  Boiled  custard  will  invariably  curdle  and  whey. — Mrs.  G.  W« 
Dean,  Gause,  Texas. 

FLAKY  PIE  CRUST 
Three  cupsful  of  flour;  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  cupful  of  water 
(scant),  a  pinch  of  salt;  put  lard  into  flour  with  stout  spoon  until  it 
will  crumble  up  fine,  add  water,  a  little  at  a  time,  but  don't  get  it  too 
soft.  Place  on  floured  board  and  put  in  shape  with  spoon,  using  hands 
as  little  as  possible.  Roll  thin  and  cut  in  rounds  with  small  saucer  to 
fit  bottom  of  muffin  pans.  Bake  till  a  rich  brown.  It  is  much  easier  to 
press  over  bottom  of  pan  than  in  the  cups.  Fill  with  prepared  pumpkin 
or  other  custard,  and  bake  until  firm. — Mes.  Annie  Kibby,  Men- 
tone,  Ala. 

FRUIT  PIE 

Take  a  half  pint  of  flour,  add  soda  and  salt,  mix  with  one-third  of 
sour  cream  and  two-thirds  of  sour  milk,  using  enough  to  make  a  thick 
dough,  but  not  stiff  enough  to  mold.  With  a  spoon  spread  the  dough 
on  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  deep  pie  tin,  which  has  been  greased.  Fill 
with  any  well-sweetened  fruit.  Bake  a  nice  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold.  If  no  cream  is  at  hand,  lard  may  be  used. 
Make  the  dough  quite  short — Mbs.  R.  B.  Stratton,  Bagwell,  Texas. 

PEACH  PIE 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  crust,  fill  half  full  of  peaches  and  cover 
them  with  boiling  water ;  add  a  cupful  and  a  half  of  sugar.  Put  on  top 
crust  and  cover  it  with  bits  of  butter,  browning  slowly.  Serve  with  sweet 
milk  or  cream. — Minnie  E.  Bbamblett,  Gumming,  Ga. 

ORANGE  PIE 

Three  eggs,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  butter,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  half  an  orange,  juice  and  rind  of  half 
a  lemon,  nutmeg  to  taste ;  beat  butter  and  sugar  together  well,  then 
beat  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  orange  and  lemon.   Put  into  pastry 


J 'IKS  AND  CUSTARDS 


without  top  crust  and  bake.  When  done,  spread  over  them  the  whites 
of  the  eggs,  beaten  with  powdered  sugar  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown. — Miss  Annie  Nelson,  Harbor  Vieio,  Fkt. 

ORANGE  TIE 

Fill  a  tin  with  crust,  crimp  the  edges  and  bake  lightly  in  a  quick 
oven.  Grate  the  rind  of  one  orange,  add  the  juice  of  two,  one  cupful 
of  sugar,  a  small  lump  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  water  and  five  drops  of 
vanilla.  Bring  it  to  a  boil  and  thicken  with  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a 
little  water.  Pour  it  over  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  beat 
quickly  together.  Pour  into  the  crust.  Beat  the  two  whites  stiff  with  a 
little  sugar,  place  it  upon  the  pie  and  brown  in  the  oven  to  a  golden 
shade. — Miss  Eva  Eldked,  Foley,  Ala. 

ORANGE  PIE 

Make  a  rich  pie  crust,  line  pie  pan.  Pare  three  nice,  large  oranges, 
be  careful  not  to  get  any  of  rind ;  slice  thin ;  cover  bottom  of  the  pan ; 
cut  thin  slices  of  butter,  lay  over  the  orange  and  then  sprinkle  with 
sugar.  Lay  strips  of  dough,  diamond-shaped,  over  top ;  sprinkle  again 
with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Nora  Jones,  Piedmont,  S.  C. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE 
Fix  your  berries  as  usual  and  prepare  with  the  usual  accompani- 
ment— cream  and  sugar.  Have  a  crisp,  thin  and  tender  pie  crust  and 
spread  thickly  with  the  berries,  cream  and  sugar.  On  top  add  a  good- 
sized  piece  of  butter  and  lattice  your  pie  with  strips  of  the  pastry. — 
Daisy  Keyton,  Waycross,  Qa. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 
One  cupful  of  sweet  potatoes,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  rich 
milk,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg, a  little  salt  and  ginger.  Have  the  potatoes  cooked  and  rubbed  fine. 
Bake  in  crust  like  pumpkin  pie.  This  is  enough  for  two  pies. — Mrs. 
Frank  Gebhart,  Seminole,  Ala. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 
Peel  and  boil  three  large  potatoes,  add  a  cupful  of  butter  and  two 
cupsful  of  sugar,  and  any  flavoring  desired.  Mash  the  potatoes,  mix 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  one  crust.  This  makes  six  pies.  They  are  bet- 
ter with  an  egg  for  every  pie,  added,  but  are  fine  without  eggs. — Nettie 
McPhearson,  Sardis,  La. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 
Peel  and  slice  a  half  dozen  baked  potatoes.  Place  a  layer  in  pan, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  about  a  teaspoonful  of  ground  spice; 
another  layer  of  potatoes,  and  so  on,  until  pan  is  full ;  two  cupsful  of 
rich  milk  ;  beat  into  this  two  eggs,  pour  over  potatoes.  Bake  a  golden 
brown. — Mrs.  Lucile  Davis,  Bonwier,  Texas. 

POTATO  CUSTARD  PIE 
Sweet  potatoes,  either  roasted  or  baked  slowly,  retain  their  natural 
sweetness  much  better  than  when  boiled.  One  should  be  careful  and 
bake  them  with  as  little  heat  as  possible.  They  should  be  put  in  the 
oven  with  a  moderate  temperature ;  then  gradually  increased  until  hot 
enough  to  bake  them  nicely.  If  placed  in  a  hot  oven,  the  peeling  will 
crack  and  part  of  the  natural  sugar  will  escape.  Here  is  my  recipe  for 
custard :  Bake  the  potatoes  until  tender ;  then  peel  and  mash ;  add 
sugar  to  taste,  and  flavor  with  grated  nutmeg-   Add  an  egg  to  every  tea- 


86 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


cupful  of  the  mixture  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  the  right  thick- 
ness. A  tiny  pinch  of  ginger  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  extract  can  be 
added  for  those  who  like  highly-flavored  casta  id.  If  the  potatoes  are  a 
large,  coarse  variety  it  is  best  to  strain  the  filling  through  a  colander 
or  cheesecloth.  All  the  stringy,  coarse  particles  are  thus  left  out.  The 
filling  should  be  thoroughly  mixed  before  baking.  To  be  thorough. 
I  will  also  give  my  method  of  making-  custard  and  pie  crust.  The  crust 
must  be  crisp,  of  course ;  but  many  cooks  overdo  this  by  putting  in  en- 
tirely too  much  lard.  First,  mix  together  one  cupful  of  flour  and  two 
tablespoonsful  of  lard  ;  stir  in  three  tablespoonsful  of  water  and  a  pinch 
of  salt  Roll  thin  and  you  have  the  crust  for  one  custard  or  pie. — Mbs. 
Sidney  Habbison,  Marietta,  8.  C. 

POTATO  PIE 

Take  sliced  sweet  potatoes,  put  in  pan,  cover  with  water,  cook  until 
tender,  add  enough  sweet  milk  to  cover,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  and 
then  put  in  dumplings  and  a  top  crust  Cook  until  brown.— Mbs.  W. 
Tttbnipseed,  BlytJieioood,  S.  C. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 
Take  one  large  sweet  potato  and  grate  or  grind  it  fine ;  add  a  half 
cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  keeping  the  whites  for  meringue ; 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon  and  one  cupful  of  milk.  Beat 
potato,  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light,  then  add  the  milk  and  cinna- 
mon. Line  pie  plate  with  light  crust  and  add  this  as  filling.  When 
brown,  take  out  and  cover  with  meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  in  oven  until  baked  to  a  light  brown  and  you 
will  have  a  most  delicious  pie. — Miss  Claba  Schbiefeb,  Perry,  La. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 
Slice  four  good-sized  potatoes,  put  in  baking  pan  one  layer  of  each, 
pastry,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  a  half  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  pour  in  enough  hot  water  to  cover,  grate  a  fourth  of  an 
orange  peel ;  cover  with  pastry  and  bake  one  hour. — Miss  Esie  Joineb, 
Pavo.  Qa. 

SYRUP  PIE 

One  quart  of  syrup,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  flavor,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one-half  teacupful  of  flour,  one-half 
pint  of  water.  Stir  well,  then  make  crust,  just  as  for  potato  custard 
and  spread  mixture  on  and  bake. — Mbs.  Boyd  Bbyan,  Harlem,  Fla. 

SYRUP  PIE 

To  eight  well  beaten  eggs  add  three  cupsful  of  good  syrup.  Line 
four  pie  tins  with  good  pastry  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mbs.  J. 
Beaty,  Lamont,  Fla. 

APPLE  PIE 

One  cupful  of  flour,  not  quite  half  a  cupful  of  lard  (never  use  but- 
ter alone),  and  one-fourth  cupful  of  water.  Mix  flour  and  lard  with 
spoon  or  knife,  then  add  water  and  roll  thin.  This  is  a  very  nice  and 
flaky  crust  Now,  peel  and  slice  six  or  seven  good-sized  apples,  put 
into  a  plate  lined  with  crust ;  put  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon,  little  dots  of 
butter  and  some  currants  over  the  apples  and  cover  with  upper  crust  a 
little  larger  than  the  tin.  Tuck  this  edge  under  the  edge  of  the  lower 
crust  to  keep  the  juice  from  running  out  while  baking.  Don't  forget  to 
prick  or  cut  slits  into  the  top  for  air  holes.  If  the  oven  should  be  too 
hot  during  time  of  baking,  let  pie  get  a  nice  brown,  then  cover  with  an- 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


S7 


other  pie  plate.  It  takes  about  three-quarters  of  ar  hour  to  bake. — Mrs. 
Martha  Young,  East  Lake,  Fla. 

DRIED  APPLE  PIE 
Cook  and  press  through  a  sieve  one  pound  of  apples;  to  one  cupful 
of  apples  mix  two  cupsful  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour.  Beat 
well ;  add  one  cupful  of  cream  and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs. 
Hake  in  one  crust.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with 
two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Spread  on  the  pies  after  they  have  baked. 
Set  back  in  the  oven  and  brown  lightly.  This  makes  two  pies. — Mrs. 
Florence  McDuff,  ^Yinnshoro,  La. 

APPLE  CUSTARD  PIE 
To  one  pint  of  stewed  apples,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  two  well-beaten  eggs  and  a  half  cupful  of  cream.  Line 
a  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust,  rolled  thin,  and  fill  the  plate  with  the  mix- 
ture.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Z.  D.  Duke,  Gushing,  Texas. 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  a  crust  and  fill  with  thin  slices  of  bananas. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  granulated  sugar ; 
add  three  tablespoonsful  of  orange  juice  and  one  cupful  of  rich  milk ; 
pour  over  the  bananas.  Bake  like  custard.  Make  a  meringue  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  with  two  heaping  teaspoonsful  of  granulated  sugar. 
Brown  lightly  in  oven. — Emma  Akers,  Billiard,  Fla. 

BANANA  MERINGUE  PIE 
Have  a  pie  crust  ready-baked ;  place  bananas,  sliced  across,  over  the 
bottom ;  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 
with  three  tablespoonsful  of  powdered  sugar.   Place  in  a  slow  oven  and 
bake  a  delicate  brown. — Miss  Laura  Ward,  Edwards,  Miss. 

BANANA  PIE 

Make  a  pie  shell  of  rich  crust,  the  same  ns  for  lemon  or  custard  pie. 
Bake  them  on  the  outside  of  pie  tin,  which  is  turned  upside  down,  and 
prick  with  a  fork.  When  done  and  cool,  cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer 
of  nice  bananas,  sliced,  with  a  little  orange  juice ;  add  a  layer  of  sweet- 
ened, whipped  cream,  on  the  top  of  that  put  another  layer  of  bananas 
and  a  thick  layer  of  cream.  Strawberries  may  be  used  with  the  bananas. 
— Mrs.  J.  A.  Garrick,  Dickinson,  Ala. 

BANANA  PIE 

Line  pie  pan  with  pastry,  slice  bananas  across,  very  thin,  and  place 
in  pan.  Make  egg  custard  of  two  eggs  (beaten  light),  four  table- 
spoonsful of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one  cupful  of  milk.  Flavor  with  nutmeg  and  pour  over  bananas. 
Bake  slowly.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  using  two 
heaping  tablespoonsful  of  powdered  sugar.  Pour  over  pie.  Set  in 
stove  to  brown. — Miss  Laura  Ward,  Edwards,  Miss. 

BANANA  PIE 

One  egg  and  yolk  of  another,  one  cupful  -if  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  flour,  one  scant  cupful  of  milk,  one  banana  (mashed  fine),  little  but- 
ter. Bake  with  only  one  crust,  using  white  of  egg  for  frosting  top. — 
May  Little,  Kennedale,  Texas. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 
Cook  pumpkin  until  very  dry  and  it  begins  to  brown,  stirring  often 
to  keep  from  scorching.    To  one  quart  of  pumpkin  add  a  half  pint  of 


38 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


molasses,  one-fourth  pint  of  sugar  and  two  teagpoonsful  of  ginger, 
one  teaspoonful  of  grated  orange  peel,  one  of  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Cook  all  together  until  thick  enough  to  slice 
with  a  knife,  pack  in  jelly  glasses.  This  will  keep  a  long  time  in  cold 
weather.  Take  one  glassful  to  each  pie,  add  one  pint  of  rich  milk  and 
heat  then  add  two  eggs  (well  beaten),  and  more  sugar  if  necessary. — 
Mbs.  Anxte  Kieby,  llenione,  Ala. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 
The  following  recipe  is  sufficient  quantity  for  three  pies :  Take  one 
quart  of  rich  milk — a  little  cream  is  an  improvement — three  cupsful  of 
boiled  and  strained  pumpkin,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  little  piece  of 
butter,  four  eggs,  the  yolks  beaten  thoroughly  and  stirred  in.  and  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  froth  and  added  just  before  putting  the  pie  into  the 
oven ;  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Have  a  rich  crust 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Miss  Eva  Eldsed,  Foley.  Ala. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 
Peel  and  cut  into  small  pieces  half  of  a  medium-sized  pumpkin. 
Put  into  a  granite  sauce  pan ;  add  two  cupsful  of  good,  home-made  mo- 
lasses. Cook  slowly  until  perfectly  done  and  of  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream :  make  a  good  biscuit  dough,  pinch  off  pieces  the  size  of  a  bis- 
cuit, roll  out  thin,  spread  pumpkin  on  ha]f ;  fold  the  other  half  over, 
pinch  the  edges  together.  Fry  in  hot  lard. — Mbs.  Floeexce  McDuff, 
Winnsboro,  La. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

Prepare  and  cook  a  large-sized  pumpkin  until  it  is  soft.  Salt  and 
sweeten  to  suit  taste,  and  beat  four  eggs  and  mix  with  the  cooked  pump- 
kin and  flavor  with  nutmeg.  Bake  on  a  crust  as  for  any  other  pie. — 
Miss  Abba  Boxd,  Dead  Lake,  Miss. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

One  quart  of  stewed  pumpkin,  strained  through  a  sieve ;  nine  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  ;  two  quarts  of  milk,  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  and  mace.  Beat  well 
and  bake  without  top  crust — Mbs.  Fbaxk  Abnold.  Iva,  S.  C. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

Two  quarts  of  pumpkin,  three  quarts  of  milk,  one  dozen  eggs,  two 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonsful  of  ground  cinnamon,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  ground  cloves.  Rub  pumpkin  through  a  sieve,  add 
sugar,  spice,  then  the  well-beaten  eggs  and,  lastly,  the  milk. — Mbs.  H. 
E.  Pabtbidge,  Loxley,  Ala. 

PUMPKIN  PIE  AND  CUSTARD 
For  pumpkin  pies  and  custards,  I  use  the  same  filling  and  flavoring 
as  for  apples  and  potatoes,  although  I  thi.  k  pumpkin  custards  are  best 
when  flavored  with  either  cinnamon  or  vanilla  alone. — Mbs.  S.  Hab- 
bison,  Harietta,  S.  G. 

RAISIN  PIE 

Two  cupsful  of  seeded  raisins  (10c  package),  cut  fine  with  scissors 
or  food  chopper,  pour  over  them  two  teacupsful  of  hot  water,  add  two 
cupsful  of  sugar  (brown  is  best)  put  on  stove,  cook  a  few  minutes, 
thicken  with  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  mixed  with  water  (flour  will 
do) .  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  and  a  little  butter  is  nice  to  add  for  those 
who  do  not  like  such  a  sweet  pie.  Cook  in  double  crust  made  as  fol- 
lows :    One  cupful  of  flour  to  one  helping  spoonful  of  shortening. 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


81) 


mixtd  with  cold  water  and  about  one  saltspoonful  of  salt. — E.  H., 
SlideU,  La. 

RAISIN  PIE 

Put  one  cupful  of  raisins  into  a  stew  pan  with  one  cupful  of  cold 
water  and  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Have  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  stirred  smooth  in  five  tablespoonsful  of  water.  Stir 
this  into  raisins,  stirring  them  constantly.  Add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter 
and  three  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar.  Cook  two  or  three  minutes  and 
bake  between  two  crusts. — Tinnie  Williams,  Florence,  Miss. 

RAISIN  PIE 

Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  seeded  raisins,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook 
raisins  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover;  then  add  other  ingredients  and 
bake  in  two  crusts.  This  is  enough  for  two  pies.  —  Mrs.  E.  Frazier, 
Halletsville,  Texas. 

RAISIN  PIE 

Six  eggs  (reserve  four  whites  for  the  top),  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  sugar,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
flour,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins. — Mrs. 
O.  C.  Jennison,  Ale^ton,  La, 

RAISIN  PIE 

Mix  with  one  cupful  of  raisins,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonsful  of  water,  two  cupsful  of  sugar. 
Bake  in  rather  rich  raste.  Meringue  the  whites  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
— Olivia  V.  Smith,  Waynesboro,  Miss. 

RAISIN  PIE 

One  package  of  raisins,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  water, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch  or  flour.  Mix  flour  with  sugar,  pour 
into  boiling  water,  add  raisins.  Let  boil  five  or  ten  minutes. — Mrs. 
J.  A.  St.  Dizieb,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

SQUASH  PIE 

Split  the  squash  open  and  scrape  out  seeds  and  stringy  pulp.  Bake 
with  split  side  up,  inside  the  oven,  until  tender.  Then  scrape  all  the 
pulp  from  the  shell.  To  each  quart  of  dry  squash  add  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch,  one  cupful 
of  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Flavor  with  nutmeg,  or  any 
spice  you  prefer.  Bake  with  one  crust.  This  makes  two  pies. — Mrs. 
Chas.  G.  Medlin,  Salisbury,  JSf.  C. 

RHUBARB  MERINGUE  PIE 
Two  cupsful  of  stewed  rhubarb  (canned  or  fresh)  ;  stir  into  this 
while  boiling,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  mixed  with  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  a 
generous  dash  of  nutmeg.  Have  a  nice  pie  crust  ready  baked,  fill  with 
this  mixture,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten 
with  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Place  in  slow  oven  and  bake  a  deli- 
cate brown.    Serve  cold. — Mrs.  E.  Cedarholm,  Lands'  End,  Minn. 

CITRON  PIE 

Peel  and  slice  citron  in  any  quantity  desired.  Put  in  agate  vessel 
and  stew  down  until  thoroughly  tender,  removing  juice  as  it  cooks  out. 
When  done,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  sweeten  to 


90 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


taste,  and  stir  in  a  little  flour  or  corn  starch  to  thicken.  Put  in  pans 
lined  with  good  pie  crust  and  bake.  The  citron  will  not  brown  much, 
but  when  crust  is  done,  spread  pie  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar  and 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Put  in  oven  and  cook  to  a  delicate 
brown.— Mrs.  G.  C.  Stoby,  Ellaoell,  Ga. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE 
One  cup  of  grated,  raw  Irish  potato,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of 
sugar,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  one-half  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  cupful  of 
seeded  raisins,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Bake  with  an  upper  crust. — 
Mbs.  James  Wyly,  Dickson,  Tenn. 

MOLASSES  PIE 
Two  eggs,  six  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
flour,  one  cupful  of  molasses ;  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.    This  makes  two  pies. — 
Irene  Ceownoveb,  Bridgeport,  Ala. 

MOLASSES  PIE 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses.  Cream  eggs  and  sugar.  Add 
milk,  then  molasses,  then  melted  butter,  one  rounded  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch  stirred  in  the  sugar.  Flavor  with  a  little  ginger  and  cinna- 
mon, and  bake  in  two  lower  crusts. — Abigail  M.  Henby,  Qunters- 
ville,  Ala. 

CRACKER  PIE 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  warm  water,  one-half  cupful  of  vin- 
egar, two  eggs  (well  beaten),  five  crackers  (rolled  fine).  Season  to 
taste  with  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  bake  in  rich  crusts. — 
Mbs.  J.  C.  McDonald,  Rockwall,  Texas. 

JAM  PIE 

Three  eggs  (beat  the  eggs  separately),  one-half  cupful  of  jam,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour ; 
add  whites  last  (well  beaten).  Stir  all  together.  This  makes  two  pies. 
— Mbs.  Coba  Moobe,  Harden,  Tenn. 

JAM  PIE 

Have  pan  of  paste  ready,  fill  with  jam  which  has  been  warmed. 
Bake  without  upper  crust,  then  spread  with  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs,  to  which  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  has  been  added.  Set  in  stove 
to  brown  lightly. — Mbs.  Mamie  Gumming,  Albany,  Ky. 

JELLY  PIES 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter, 
one-half  cupful  of  jelly,  one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour.  Beat  whites  and  put  on  top. — Mbs.  C.  M.  Langfobd, 
Lena,  Miss. 

SHOO-FLY  PIE 
One  large  cupful  of  black  molasses  put  into  dish  which  will  hold 
three  cupsful.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  into  a  cup,  fill  this  with 
boiling  water  and  stir,  and  then  pour  immediately  over  molasses.  Add 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  allspice.  Stir.  Divide  this  filling  into  three 
pie  crusts.   Take  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cup- 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


91 


ful  of  shortening.  Mix  these  into  fine  crumbs  and  divide  equally  into 
the  three  pies.   Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  J.  N.  Potter,  Hilliard,  Fla. 

IRISH  POTATO  PIE 

Two  large  or  four  small  potatoes,  two  cupsful  of  hot  water,  sugar 
to  suit  taste,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  nutmeg.  Bake  with  two  crusts. 
— Mrs.  Eugene  Hentz,  Pomaria,  S.  C. 

TOMATO  PIE 

Take  sound,  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  and  slice;  set  on  stove  where  they 
will  heat,  but  not  boil ;  put  one  cupful  of  water  and  one  cupful  of  sugar 
in  pie  pan,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  set  on  stove  to  boil.  With  a  fork 
lift  out  tomatoes  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  pan,  then  put  in  baked 
dumplings.  Finish  the  pie  that  way,  all  but  a  top  crust,  which  should  be 
rolled  thin.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  M.  E.  Chesser,  Andalusia,  Ala. 

BAKED  TOMATO  PIE 

Take  a  pie  pan,  put  in  layer  of  tomatoes  and  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
then  sprinkle  sugar  and  pepper  and  then  more  tomatoes  and  crumbs,  and 
so  on,  until  enough,  put  sugar  and  butter  on  top ;  cook  slowly  until 
brown.  It  is  nice  with  vegetables  or  meat — Mrs.  W.  Turnipseed, 
Blythexoood,  8.  O. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE 

Line  a  pie  dish  with  rich  pastry.  Slice  into  it  enough  green  toma- 
toes, very  thin,  to  fill  it  Sprinkle  with  a  little  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
two  or  more  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice 
or  vinegar.  Bake  between  two  crusts. — Mrs  W.  D.  Loughridge,  La- 
Fayette,  Oa. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE 

Peel  and  slice  green  tomatoes,  add  four  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar, 
one  of  butter,  three  of  sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg ;  bake  with  two  crusts 
slowly ;  tastes  like  green  apple  pie.  —  Mrs.  W.  G.  Herrington,  Her* 
manville,  Miss. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PIE 

Line  a  baking  dish  with  pie  crust.  Pill  two-thirds  full  with  thin 
slices  of  green  tomatoes,  add  two  cupsful  of  milk  or  water,  and  one 
cupful  of  sugar.  Flavor  to  suit  taste  with  nutmeg.  Place  on  top  of 
the  range  and  cook  until  tomatoes  are  done,  then  cover  with  top  crust 
and  bake  in  oven  until  light  brown.  Serve  with  or  without  sauce. — 
Lena  Gaskin,  Newton,  Texas. 

PIE  FOR  DYSPEPTICS 
Four  tablespoonsful  of  oatmeal  and  one  pint  of  water.  Let  stand 
a  few  hours,  or  till  the  oats  are  swelled.  Then  add  two  large  apples, 
pared  and  sliced,  a  little  salt,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour.  Mix  all  well  together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pie  dish,  and  you 
have  a  most  delicious  pie. — Mrs.  H.  O.  Kirton,  Rome,  Ga. 

OSGOOD  PIE 

Four  eggs,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three 
tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoenful  each  of  powdered  cloves, 
spic^  and  cinnamon,  oDe  cupful  of  chopped  raising  or  preserves.  Ro 


92 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


serve  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue  if  desired.— Miss  Maude  Wood- 
ward, Jonesville,  Va. 

PASTRY  FOR  PIES 
Three  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  of  salt, 
one  cupful  of  lard  and  half  cupful  of  cold  water.  Stir  with  a  spoon 
and  roll  out  for  pies.  This  will  make  crust  for  three  pies.  Do  not  put 
your  hands  in  it  if  you  want  it  short  and  crisp. — Mbs.  N.  B.  Stone, 
Wewahitchka,  Fla. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD  WITHOUT  EGGS 
Peel  and  slice  potatoes,  cross-wise,  and  put  in  steamer  with  enough 
water  to  cook.   When  done,  mash,  sweeten  and  use  plenty  of  butter  and 
sweet  milk  with  just  a  little  flour. — Mbs.  W.  E.  Ballabd,  Hance- 
ville,  Ala. 

POTATO  CUSTARD 
Boil  sweet  potatoes  tender.  Take  six  small  ones,  mash  fine ;  four 
eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  pinch 
of  salt,  add  sweet  milk  or  cream  to  make  as  thin  as  desired.  Bake  with 
one  crust.  Flavor  to  suit  taste.  This  is  enough  to  make  two  custards. 
— Mbs.  John  Blackwood,  Weir,  Miss. 

SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD 
One  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  yolks 
until  light,  add  milk  and  sugar ;  press  steamed  potatoes  through  a  sieve 
and  stir  into  custard  until  it  is  thick.  Season  with  cinnamon  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter-  Bake  in  an  under  crust.  Make  a  meringue  of  the 
whites  and  spread  over  the  top  and  set  in  oven  until  brown.  Irish  pota- 
toes may  be  used  in  same  way. — Mbs.  Cabbie  Bonds,  Blevins,  Ark. 

GRATED  SWEET  POTATO  CUSTARD 
One  cupful  of  grated  sweet  potato,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  three  eggs.    Flavor  with  nutmeg.    Scald  milk  and  stir 
in  the  potato.  When  cold,  add  the  eggs  (well  beaten,  with  sugar  mixed), 
and  flavor.  Bake  in  one  crust. — Mbs.  A.  H.  Robertson,  Griffin,  Fla, 

IRISH  POTATO  CUSTARD 
Mash  very  smoothly  a  pound  of  Irish  potatoes,  cream  with  them 
half  a  pound  of  butter;  beat  three  eggs  with  half  a  pound  of  sugar; 
mix  well,  flavoring  with  wine  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  puff  paste,  and 
sprinkle  with  loaf  sugar  when  done.  Excellent  either  hot  or  cold. — 
Bebtha  Z.  Nease,  Marlow,  Ga. 

IRISH  POTATO  CUSTARD 
To  a  pint  of  potatoes  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a  colander  I 
add  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  little  salt, 
and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  I  mix  all  well  together  and  bake  in  a  crust 
made  with  a  pint  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  lard,  a  little  salt  and  cold 
water,  and  roll  it  very  thin.  When  done  I  put  a  meringue  on  top  made 
of  the  two  whites  (beaten  stiff),  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  I 
flavor  the  custards  with  vanilla. — Alice  Taylob,  Bolingbroke,  Ga. 

MOLASSES  CUSTARD 
Boil  cne  cupful  of  molasses  until  thick,  set  off  and  when  cool,  add  the 
yolks  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  cream, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  orange  peel.    Line  pie  plate  with  crust, 
^lightly  brown,  then  fill  with  the  ingredients  and  bake.    When  done, 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


93 


beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar,  spread  over  top  and  return  to  oven  and  let  brown.  This  makes 
two  custards. — F.  O.  Jones,  McCall  Creek,  Miss. 

MOLASSES  CUSTARD 
Five  eggs,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of 
butter,  a  half  cupful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk ; 
flavor  with  ginger.   Bake. — Mrs.  C.  J.  Goolsby,  MonticeUo,  Ga. 

MOLASSES  CUSTARD 
Six  eggs  (yolks),  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
good  molasses,  one  spoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Mix  all  together  well 
and  put  in  rich  crust  made  of  one  part  flour  and  one-half  part  lard, 
mixed  with  water,  salt  added  to  flour;  beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  sugar 
and  put  on  top  of  pies  after  they  have  been  cooked.  Brown  the  meringue 
a  golden  brown. — Anonymous. 

MOLASSES  CUSTARD 
For  six  custards  or  pies,  take  five  cupsful  of  molasses,  six  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  butter  aud  two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of  flour.  Put  the 
molasses  in  something  that  will  heat  quickly  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Cook 
until  it  is  nearly  candy,  then  add  the  butter  and  set  off  the  stove  to  cool. 
As  soon  as  it  is  cool  enough  not  to  cook  the  eggs,  add  them  (well 
beaten),  then  the  flour,  stirring  it  well  together.  Bake  in  one  crust. — 
Nettie  McPherson,  Sardis,  La. 

RICE  CUSTARD 
Two  cupsful  of  cold,  boiled  rice,  softened  with  very  little  hot  water 
if  lumpy ;  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  seven  eggs,  two  cupsful 
of  sugar  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  it  thin.  Bake  in  a  deep  pan 
until  thick.  Season  with  lemon  to  taste. — Bertha  Z.  Nease,  Mar- 
low,  Ga. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
Two  lemons,  grated  rind  and  juice  (grate  only  the  outside  yellow 
part),  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  two  whole 
eggs,  which  reserves  two  whites  for  the  meringue ;  mix  and  add  three 
tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch  (or  flour  may  be  used),  and  two  cupsful 
of  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  After  boiling  until  thick,  watch- 
ing carefully  to  prevent  sticking,  put  in  crusts  that  are  already  baked, 
and  add  the  meringue,  made  by  whipping  the  two  whites  with  three 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Place  in  oven  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  J.  M. 
C.  Myers,  LaFayette,  Ga. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour 
mixed  in  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  of  a  grated 
lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Make  a  nice,  rich  crust,  beat  whites 
for  top ;  use  double  the  amount  for  two  pies  and  only  five  eggs. — Mrs. 
E.  H.  Nivens,  Rockdale,  Texas. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths 
pound  of  sugar,  two  lemons.    Grate  all  the  yellow  in  and  then  add  the 
juice.   Bake  in  rich  paste. — Bertha  Z,  Nease,  Marlow,  Ga. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
Grate  one  lemon,  rind  and  all  :  acid  two  cupsful  of  hot  water,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs  (beaten  well),  two  tablespoonsful 


94 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  com  starch.  Divide  for  two  custards.  Bake  until  set,  then  cover 
with  the  beaten  whites  slightly  sweetened.  Return  to  the  oven  and 
brown. — Mus.  Theo.  Jockisch,  Greensboro,  Ala. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
Put  into  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  grated  peel  and  juice  of  one  lemon  ; 
cream  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  fiour,  yolks  of  five  eggs ;  add  the  cup  of  water  and  juice ; 
bake  in  a  crust.  This  will  make  three  small  or  two  large  custards. 
Meringue  the  whites  with  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar.— Olivia 
V.  Smith,  Waynesboro,  Miss. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
Yolks  of  six  eggs,  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cup- 
ful of  butter,  two  lemons  with  a  little  of  the  rind  (grated).  Mix  well 
and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  enough  to  spread  on  crust.  Bake 
the  crust  before  spreading  custard  on.  Whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and  a  few  drops 
of  lemon ;  spread  on  top  of  custard ;  place  in  oven  and  brown  lightly. 
This  quantity  makes  three  medium-sized  pies. — Mks.  J.  W.  Hawkins, 
Crawford,  Ota. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  mixed  well  with  one-half  cupful  of  flour; 
juice  of  one  lemon,  yolks  of  two  eggs  (beaten  light),  and  one  and  a 
half  cupsful  of  boiling  water.  Cook  custard  until  thick,  beating  to 
prevent  lumps  forming.  Fill  a  baked  crust  with  the  custard,  cover 
with  a  meringue  made  by  beating  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff,  with  a 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  brown  lightly  in  the  even. — Mbs.  W.  D.  Lough- 
eidge,  LaFcyette,  Ga. 

LEMON  CUSTARD 
Six  eggs  (less  two  whites),  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  three  lemons.  Sufficient  for  three  custards  made  with  an  under- 
crust.  Use  more  lard  or  fried  meat  grease  than  water  by  measure, 
and  work  into  a  stiff  dough,  with  flour.  Mix  first  flour  and  sugar,  then 
the  well-beaten  eggs ;  then  the  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  lastly,  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemons.  When  the  custards  are  cooked,  draw 
to  the  front  of  stove  and  spread  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  reserved 
whites  beaten  with  six  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Keep  in  stove  until 
brown. — Mrs.  M.  A.  Tayloe,  Anderson,  Texas, 

MILK  CUSTARD  WITH  RAISINS 
Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins, 
four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  (one  heaping  tablespoonful  to  each  egg), 
one  teaspoonfu!  of  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs  well  together,  add  sugar, 
butter  and  raisins  and  then  the  milk  and  vanilla.  Beat  for  a  minute 
and  pour  in  a  baking  pan  and  bake  slowly,  as  it  will  whey  if  left  too 
long  in  stove.  Leave  out  butter  and  raisins  and  you  will  have  a  light, 
nutritious  dessert  for  invalids  and  children.— Miss  Eloise  Tisdale 
Chat  aw  a,  Miss. 

CREAM  CUSTARD 
The  yellow  of  three  eggs,  three  teacupsful  of  milk,  three  table- 
spoonsful of  flour,  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste,  with  the  milk ;  ■  three 
heaping  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Boil  to  a  thick  custard ;  let  cook  and 
flavor  with  lemon.  Pour  into  cruets  after  the  crust*  have  been  baked 
a  fevc  minutes,  then  set  custard  in  oven  and  cook  till  firm  and  until 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


95 


thick.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  white*  of  eggs  and  thread  ou  custards 
and  brown  lightly.  This  makes  two  large  custards.— Mrs.  Lottie 
Rhodes,  Gxbsland.,  La. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one  heaping  cupful  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring,  two  cupsful  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut.  Beat  egg  and  sugar  until  light,  then  add  flavoring,  milk  and 
cocoanut.  Line  custard  pan  with  crust,  put  in  mixture  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  Edith  Tubneb,  Cowpens,  S.  C. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
One  cupful  of  cocoanut,  one  pint  of  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-half  of  a  grated  nutmeg.    Bake  on  crusts. — Mrs.  L.  G. 
Tipton,  Andalusia,  Ala. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
Take  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  fresh 
buttermilk,  one-third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  pinch  of  salt  and  one 
small  package  of  shredded  cocoanut  This  will  make  two  custards. — 
Miss  Janie  Habbington,  Coles  Mill,  N.  O. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
Grate  one  cocoanut;  a  well-beaten  egg,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a 
lump  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  cupful  of  flour,  stirred 
in  water ;  now  add  the  cocoanut  and  flavor  with  pineapple. — Loreanna 
Allen,  Gaston,  Ala. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD 
Eight  eggs,  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonsful  of  butter, 
one  grated  cocoanut.  Beat  the  yolks,  sugar  and  butter  together,  add 
well-beaten  whites  and  grated  nut  Mix  well,  add  any  flavoring  desired. 
Bake  in  four  pie  pans  lined  with  smooth  dough. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Hamil- 
ton, Clwudrant,  La. 

CUP  CUSTARD 
To  four  well-beaten  eggs  add  six  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful 
of  sugar;  flavor  with  lemon.    Place  custard  cups  in  pan  of  boiling 
water,  put  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  and  bake  until  custard  is  set 
— Mrs.  M.  J.  Gaskin,  Newton,  Texas. 

EGG  CUSTARD 
Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  ;  one  cup  of  sugar, 
a  little  flour  (about  three  teaspoonsf ul ) ,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
rich,  creamy  sweet  milk ;  flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  two  crusts. — Mbs. 
R.  A.  Allen,  Lexington,  Texas. 

EGG  CUSTARD 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. — Mrs.  A.  Penn, 
Bolton,  Miss. 

EGG  CUSTARD 
First  separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs ;  put  the  yolks  in  a 
bowl ;  then  add  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour ;  beat 
together  to  keep  from  lumping ;  then  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter.    Flavor  to  suit  taste.   This  will  make  two 


96 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


custards.  When  the  custards  are  a  nice  brown,  beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth ;  then  add  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and  spread 
over  the  custards ;  put  back  in  stove  and  cook  until  a  delicate  brown. 
— Lizzie  Jones,  Springville,  Ala. 

EGG  CUSTARD 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a 
tablespoonful  of  buttermilk  and,  last,  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten 
stiff,  and  flavor  to  suit  taste. — Mbs.  O.  J.  Rhyme,  Dallas,  N.  G. 

EGG  CUSTARD 
To  two  eggs  add  a  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
one-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  nutmeg  to  taste 
(or  whatever  flavor  liked),  beat  all  thoroughly  in  a  mixing  bowl.  Place 
on  the  stove  and  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to  curdle.  Have  ready 
two  pie  tins  lined  with  crust  pour  on  the  batter  and  bake  immediately 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Mbs.  F.  M.  Bishop,  Holly  Springs,  Ga. 

EGG  CUSTARD 
Six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half 
cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  pineapple  or  some  good  flavoring. 
Reserve  the  whites  of  four  eggs  for  icing,  to  which  add  a  little  more 
flavoring.  This  will  make  four  nice,  delicious  custards. — Minnie  E. 
Bbamblett,  Gumming,  Ga. 

CHESS  CUSTARD 
For  two  custards,  take  three  eggs,  beat  well  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  butter ;  beat  all  together ;  cook 
slowly.  This  is  fine.— Mbs.  F.  R.  Knight,  Peoples,  N.  G. 

CHESS  CUSTARD 
Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  flavor  to 
taste.   Enough  for  two  custards. — Mbs.  S-  L.  Hudson,  Rusk,  Texas. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD 
One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  cup- 
ful of  butter,  three-fourths  cupful  of  chocolate,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
corn  starch,  four  eggs  (yolks),  use  whites  for  meringue.  Put  butter  and 
sugar  on  the  stove  and  add  grated  chocolate,  dissolve  starch  in  sweet 
milk,  stir  in  with  the  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs 
and  one  spoonful  of  vanilla.  Let  cook  a  few  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Line  a  pie  pan  with  good,  rich  crust,  and  pour  in  desired 
filling ;  bake,  then  cover  with  meringue  made  of  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
with  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Brown.  —  Minnie  H.  Fbancis, 
Ohatchee,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD 
Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cupful  of  butter, 
six  teaspoonsful  of  flour  or  corn  starch,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk, 
six  teaspoonsful  of  chocolate. — Miss  Saba  Hendebson,  Griffin,  Ga. 

CHESS  CUSTARD 
Take  six  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter ; 
beat  eggs  separately,  take  one-half  of  the  whites  and  a  half  cupful  of 
sugar  and  beat  stiff.  Take  the  remaining  whites,  beat  well,  add  to  the 
yolks  (well  beaten),  the  remaining  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  adding  butter. 
Stir  all  well  together,  put  in  crust  and  bake  slowly.    Take  out  of  the 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


97 


oven  and  put  whites  cm  top.  Put  back  aud  brown.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg.— Mrs.  Lena  Bbyan,  Osyka,  Miss. 

CLABBER  CUSTARD 
Beat  six  eggs  light,  add  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful 
of  clabber,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter; 
flavor  with  a  little  grated  nutmeg.    Pour  in  greased  pan.    Cook  slowly 
until  firm. — Miss  Laura  Warj>,  Edwards,  Miss. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD 
One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  Damson 
preserves,  five  eggs  (beaten  separately),  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla. 
Add  whites  of  eggs  last    Bake  in  crust  of  rich  pastry. — Mrs.  J.  E. 
Bbownlbe,  Brownlee,  8.  C. 

JEFF  DAVIS  CUSTARD 
Four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  oue  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  ;  cream 
butter,  sugar,  milk  and  the  yolks  together,  adding  the  flavoring  and 
stiffly-beaten  whites  last,  bake  on  rich  crust ;  two  custards. — Mrs.  J.  J. 
Hoobleb,  Townley,  Ala. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
Take  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Separate  eggs ; 
beat  the  yolks  lightly,  add  the  flour ;  stir  well  and  then  add  the  melted 
butter,  and  then  the  milk ;  flavor  with  nutmeg.  After  mixing  this  well, 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Cook  in  a  nice,  rich  pastry.  This  makes 
two  custards. — Mbs.  C.  T.  Murphy,  Union,  S.  G. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
Jour,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
pint  of  buttermilk.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  four 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the 
whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sugar,  and  last,  the  baking  powder; 
spread  on  the  custard  and  bake  to  a  delicate  brown. — Mrs.  A.  Penn, 
Bolton,  Miss. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
Seven  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  mixed 
with  sugar  to  prevent  lumping ;  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  cup- 
ful of  buttermilk.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Reserve  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  for  the  meringue.  This  makes  three  custards. — Mrs.  Iva 
Mitchell,  Borom,  Ala. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
The  well-beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  thick  buttermilk,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour ;  mix  flour  with 
sugar ;  add  one  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract  This  will  make  two  good  custards.  Line  pans  with 
good  rich  pie  paste.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done.  Beat  whites  of 
eggs  until  stiff.  Beat  in  one-half  cupful  of  sugar  and  spread  over  top. 
Return  to  oven  and  brown. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Bell,  Purdy,  Okla. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
Make  up  dough  as  for  biscuit ;  roll  out  thin  and  line  a  pie  plate  with 
same.    Cut  up  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  and  put  on  the  crust 


98 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


Sprinkle  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  over  the  butter,  grate  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg into  it,  take  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  stir  two  spoonsful  of  flour 
into  the  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  butter.  Set  in  the  stove  and  bake. — 
Mrs.  Minnie  Lambert,  Manistee,  Ala. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour.   Extract  to  taste. — Mrs.  W.  A. 
Wright,  Varnqll  Station,  Oa. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
For  two  custards  use  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  and  a 
fourth  cupsful  of  buttermilk.  Then  take  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter- 
milk and  the  same  amount  of  flour,  stir  together  until  perfectly 
smooth  and  add  to  the  custard  mixture.  Then  bake  in  shallow  custard 
pans  lined  with  a  crust  until  custard  is  firm,  which  will  require  only  a 
few  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Baker,  Ozark,  Ala. 

BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD 
One  quart  of  fresh  buttermilk,  four  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
sugar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  cupful  of  flour  stirred  in 
water,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  to  taste.  This 
makes  five  delicious  pies. — Loreanna  Allen,  Gasto-.i,  Ala. 

SYRUP  CUSTARD 
Beat  five  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  three  cupsful  of  good,  thick 
syrup.  Stir  together,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  part  of  a  nut- 
meg, a  pinch  of  allspice  and  a  pinch  of  cinnamon.  Make  the  pastry  very 
short,  roll  thin  and  place  in  deep  pie  plates ;  then  pour  custard  on  the 
crust  and  bake. — MRS.  J.  B.  Warmack,  Alachua,  Fla. 

SYRUP  CUSTARD 
For  each  custard  use  one-half  cupful  of  syrup,  one-third  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  flour  and 
one  egg.  Put  syrup  and  butter  on  together  and  let  cook  until  real  thick. 
Beat  egg,  flour  and  milk  together,  and  add  syrup  after  it  has  cooled  a 
little.  Put  in  a  pan  lined  with  rich  pastry  and  bake.  If  the  syrup  is 
not  very  sweet,  use  one-half  cupful  of  sugar. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Hogg,  La- 
Grange,  Ga. 

SYRUP  CUSTARD 
Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  ribbon  syrup,  one-half  cupful  of  sugar,  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  nutmeg  to  taste.    Brown  the  butter, 
as  it  adds  to  the  flavor.    Add  more  syrup  if  you  want  your  custard 
thicker.  This  is  for  two  custards. — Mrs.  S.  L.  Hudson,  Rusk,  Texas. 

SNOWBALL  CUSTARD 
Beat  whites  of  three  eggs  stiff  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Drop  by  table 
spoonsful  into  boiling  milk,  and  as  they  harden  on  under  side  turn  over. 
When  done  put  into  glass  dish.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  to  the  boiling 
milk,  sweeten  to  taste,  stir  until  it  thickens,  remove  from  fire  and  flavor. 
Pour  this  custard  around  the  white  balls  in  the  glass  dish, — Mrs.  W.  P. 
Strickland,  Shady  Grove,  Fla. 

TAPIOCA  CUSTARD 
Soak  five  tablespoonsful  of  tapioca  in  one  teacupful  of  water  over 
night.   Place  over  the  fire  one  quart  of  milk,  let  come  to  boil,  then  stir 
in  tapioca.   Keep  stirring  until  it  thickens.    Then  add  beaten  yolks  of 
three  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt    If  not  thick 


PIES  AND  CUSTARDS 


enough,  stir  up  a  little  corn-starch  or  flour  and  water  and  add.  After 
removing  from  the  fire,  add  flavoring.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff, 
then  add  little  sugar  and  beat  again.  Spread  over  top  of  custard  and 
put  in  oven  to  slightly  brown. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Curry,  Venice,  Fla. 

TRANSPARENT  CUSTARD 
Five  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  four ;  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  butter.  Beat  well,  then  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  sweet 
milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  extract.  Pour  this  into 
the  custard  pans,  lined  with  a  very  rich  crust.  While  baking,  take  the 
four  whites  and  beat  thoroughly,  and  add  a  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  grad- 
ually, to  this.  When  custards  are  done,  spread  this  on  and  let  brown 
slightly.  This  will  make  two  custards. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Mitchell,  Slate 
Spring,  Miss. 

TRANSPARENT  CUSTARD 
Six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  sweet  milk  ;  flavor  to  taste.    This  makes  three  custards. 
— Mrs.  J.  H.  McAnn,  Jacksboro,  Texas. 

CUSTARD 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  beat  together  until  light ;  add  a 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  ^lice  of  butter,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and 
thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Have  pie  pan  greased  and  hot ;  place  a  nice 
thick  crust,  pour  batter  in,  take  a  cocoanut,  grate  very  fine,  cover  the 
custard  with  it  and  let  cook. — Mrs.  F.  M.  McGuckin,  Sharon,  S.  O. 

CUSTARD 

Three  eggs  beaten  together  with  six  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  one 
neaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  corn-starch,  a  small  piece  of  butter, 
three  cupsful  of  buttermilk.  Flavor  to  suit  taste. — Mrs.  Flossie  Cas- 
tle, New  Hope,  Ala. 

CUSTARD 

Juice  of  three  oranges,  one  whole  egg  and  yolk  of  two  eggs,  three 
cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Use 
white  of  two  eggs  for  frosting.  This  is  for  three  custards. — Mrs.  O.  E. 
Martin,  Oxford,  Fla. 

APPLE  CUSTARD 
One  heaping  pint  of  apples,  mashed  fine  or  rubbed  through  a  colan- 
der, one  scant  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  cold  water,  two  rounded  table- 
spoonsful of  flour,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg;  flavor  with  lemon  and  bake  with  the  crust.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs,  stiff,  and  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  W^hen  pies  are 
done,  spread  on  top  and  set  in  oven  to  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  Bettie 
Bonds,  Blevins,  Ark. 

APPLE  CUSTARD 
Four  tart  apples,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
two  eggs.  Peel,  cover  and  slice  the  apples  in  rings.  Place  in  baking 
dish  alternately  a  layer  of  apples  and  one  of  sugar  until  all  the  apples 
and  half  the  sugar  are  in  the  baking  dish.  Set  in  hot  oven  for  ten 
minutes  to  bake.  Then  pour  over  it  a  custard  made  of  the  beaten 
eggs,  sweet  milk  and  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  and 
bake  until  the  custard  sets. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Payne,  Tag,  Ark. 

APPLE  CUSTARD 
For  two  custards,  use  six  or  seven  large  apples.    Pare  and  core, 
steam  until  tender,  and  press  through  sieve.    Add  two  tablespoonsful 


100 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  butter,  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Flavof 
with  nutmeg.  Turn  into  pastry-lined  pie  plates,  and  bake  until  sat 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff ;  add  three  tabiespoonsful  of  sugar  while  beat- 
ing. Spread  over  custards  and  set  in  oven  until  tinted  brown.  Serva 
cold. — Mbs.  Stella  Coleman,  Edison,  Oa. 

APPLE  CUSTARD 
Twelve  large  apples,  grated  ;  one  pound  of  white  sugar,  a  half  pound 
of  butter,  six  eggs,  beaten  well ;  one  lemon,  grate  the  rind ;  flavor  with 
nutmeg.   Cook  with  one  crust — Mbs.  S.  A.  McGough,  Townley,  Ala. 

GREEN  APPLE  CUSTARD 
Steam  the  apples  and  pour  them  through  a  colander.    Take  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  beat 
them  well  together,  then  add  one  pint  of  apples,  and  bake  in  rich  pas- 
try.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites. — Mbs.  R.  N.  Lightfoot. 

PEACH  CUSTARD 
Mash  peaches  very  fine ;  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  but- 
ter, scant ;  stir  all  together,  pour  in  custard  pan.  Beat  whites  of  two 
eggs  stiff ;  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  slowly,  beating  all  the  while.  Put 
this  on  peaches  and  bake  slightly  brown. — Mbs.  John  Blackwood, 
Weir,  Miss. 

BANANA  CUSTARD 
Mash  four  bananas,  pour  over  them  one-third  cupful  of  cream  and 
one  and  a  half  tabiespoonsful  of  sugar.   Cook  the  custard  and  beat  the 
white  of  one  egg,  then  brown. — Mbs.  T.  L.  McDaniel,  King's  Moun- 
tain, N.  C. 

AUNT  JANE'S  CUSTARD 
One  egg,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  tabiespoonsful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  corn 
starch ;  flavor  with  any  prepared  flavoring.  This  quantity  will  serve 
three  persons.  Break  an  egg  in  pan  you  wish  to  cook  in.  Stir  in 
sugar,  butter,  flour  or  corn-starch,  and  flavoring,  and  lastly,  milk.  Set 
in  stove ;  bake  in  moderate  oven.  This  may  be  varied  by  dropping  in 
raisins  or  currants  rolled  in  flour,  cocoanmt,  etc. — Mbs.  J.  R.  Gable, 
Sharp 8 our g,  Ga. 

TARTS 

Roll  the  crust  very  thin,  cut  round  with  biscuit  cutter.  Then  take 
one-half  of  these  crusts  and  cut  out  four  holes  in  each  with  your  thim- 
ble ;  prick  with  a  fork  the  other  half,  and  after  baking,  press  the  two 
together  after  having  them  filled  with  a  little  bright  jelly. — LOUISE  S. 
Boyce,  Camp  Walton,  Fla. 

CHESS  TARTS 
Make  a  rich  pie  crust  and  line  twelve  patty  tins  and  fill  with  the 
following  mixture :  One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  English  cur- 
rants, three  eggs,  one  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  pinch  of 
salt   Bake. — Mbs.  C.  L.  Heath,  Loughman,  Fla. 

ORANGE  TARTS 
Peel  and  pull  apart  in  sections  as  many  oranges  as  desired.  Make 
a  rich  pie  crust,  roll  thin  and  cut  in  squares.  Lay  four  pieces  of 
orange  on  a  square,  sprinkle  over  them  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter ;  put  another  square  over  and  fasten  the  edges 
securely  with  a  fork.  Bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven. — Agnes  Ad- 
ams, Auc  urn  dale,  Fla. 


FRITTERS 


101 


FRITTERS 


APPLE  FRITTERS 
Pare  large,  hard  apples ;  core  them  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Boil 
until  done.  Make  up  a  stiff  dough.  Break  off  a  piece  of  dough  a  size 
smaller  than  a  biscuit.  Roll  out  this  like  dumplings.  Place  apples, 
after  sweetening,  in  the  dough.  Double  it  back  and  fry. — Mrs.  S.  M. 
Upshaw,  Dexter,  Ga. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS 
Make  a  batter  as  for  apple  fritters,  then  pare  one  large  pineapple, 
cut  it  in  slices  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  the  slices  in  halves,  dip 
them  into  the  batter  and  then  fry. — Miss  Nellie  Rumley,  El  Campo, 
Texas. 

CORN  FRITTERS 
Grate  sir  ears  of  corn  and  mix  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  two 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  drop  by  spoonsful  in  hot  lard  and  fry 
brown. — Mrs.  W.  Dickerson,  Lyons,  Ga. 

OKRA  FRITTERS 
To  every  cupful  of  cold  boiled  okra,  allow  one  egg  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt ;  beat  well-  Drop  in  spoonsful  on  a  hot,  greasy  griddle. 
— Mrs.  A.  B.  Andrews,  WiUington,  8.  C. 

POP-OVERS 

For  these,  one  must  have  iron  gem  cups,  as  they  retain  the  heat 
most  nearly  perfect.  Set  them  on  top  of  stove  while  oven  is  heating, 
and  by  the  time  your  pop-overs  are  ready  for  the  gem  irons  the  oven 
should  be  hot.  Now  for  recipe :  Two  eggs  beaten  till  creamy,  add  one 
cupful  of  milk,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  In  another  dish  place  one 
cupful  of  sifted  flour  and  pour  the  mixture  gradually  into  this,  beat- 
ing until  smooth ;  strain  this  batter  if  you  wish,  then  fill  the  hot  oiled 
cups  half  full  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Miller,  Fruitdale,  Ala. 


102 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


PUDDINGS 


TAPIOCA  PUDDING 
One  pint  of  sweet  Milk,  three  tablespoonsful  of  tapioca,  three  eggs, 
a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  sugar,  beaten 
together.  Put  pinch  of  salt  in  milk,  let  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the 
tapioca.  Let  boil  three  minutes,  then  stir  in  yolks  of  eggs,  and  sugar. 
Boil  until  a  thick  cream,  take  off  the  fire,  stir  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  ;  add  a  few  raisins ;  flavor. — Miss  Saba  Henderson,  Griffin,  Oa. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  tapioca,  two  eggs,  four 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt, 
nutmeg  to  taste.  Put  a  part  of  the  milk  upon  the  tapioca  for  one  hour, 
beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  mix  all,  and  bake  it — Maey  B.  Zit- 
tbanes,  Marloic,  Oa. 

CREAM  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 
Soak  three  tablespoonsful  of  tapioca  in  water  overnight  Put  the 
tapioca  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  and  boil  one-half  hour ;  beat  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  with  a  cupful  of  sugar,  add  three  tablespoonsful  of 
prepared  cocoanut  Stir  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer ;  pour  into  a  pud- 
ding pan,  beat  the  whites  of  the  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  three 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Put  this  over  the  top  and  brown  for  five 
minute  — Miss  Annie  Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla. 

APPLE  TAPIOCA 

Four  apples,  two  tablespoonsful  of  tapioca,  one  quart  of  water, 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Wash,  pare  and  core  the  apples,  fill  in  the  centers 
with  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on 
each  apple.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  tender.  Put  the  two  table- 
spoonsful of  tapioca  on  in  the  water,  add  the  salt  and  balance  of  sugar. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes,  pour  over  the  baked  apples,  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  ten  minutes.  The  tapioca  can  be  flavored  with  vanilla  or 
lemon,  or  you  can  dust  the  top  of  the  dish  with  a  little  ground  cinna- 
mon.— Miss  C.  L.  Hodnett,  Colfax,  La. 

BROWN  BETTY 
Cut  into  thin  slices  several  apples ;  have  ready  a  buttered  pudding 
pan.  Put  into  this  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  ap- 
ples ;  over  this  sprinkle  sugar  and  so  on,  alternately,  bread,  apples, 
sugar,  until  pudding  pan  is  full.  Let  bread  crumbs  be  the  top  layer. 
On  this  put  three  lumps  of  butter  and  set  in  oven  and  bake  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  sauce. — Mbs.  Annie  McDonald,  Dry  Creek,  N.  C. 

STEAM  PUDDING 
One  pound  of  bread  crumbs  scalded  in  one  quart  of  sweet  milk ;  add 
eight  eggs,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  a  half  pound  of 


PUDDINGS 


108 


citron.  Boil  three  hours  in  steamtr ;  a  half  gallon  tin  bucket  will  do  for 
a  steamer.  Butter  sauce  for  pudding :  One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cups- 
ful  of  brown  sugar,  creamed  to  the  consistency  of  honey.  Serve  while 
pudding  is  hot. — Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  8.  G. 

SUET  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  suet,  chopped  fine  ;  one  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  three  and  a 
half  hours. — Mrs.  Nellie  Fuller. 

SUET  PUDDING 
One  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  six  ounces  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine ; 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  a  half  pound  of  raisins.  Mix  this 
together  with  water,  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  Put  into  a 
bag,  tie  securely,  put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water;  boil  one  and  one- 
fourth  hours.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  with  any  sauce  desired. 
— Mrs.  J.  L.  Smith,  Webster,  Texas. 

RAISIN  PUDDING 
Take  four  medium-sized  biscuits,  crumbled  fine.  Put  in  boiling 
water  to  soak.  Put  one  cupful  of  sugar  into  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
Stir  briskly  for  two  minutes.  Add  a  half  cupful  of  melted  butter  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  Mash  biscuit  with  potato  masher.  Mix  all  together. 
Drop  in  one  cupful  of  raisins  (seedless  preferred),  and  bake  brown. 
Pour  one  pint  of  sweet  cream  on  pudding.  Serve  hot. — Mrs.  John 
Blackwood,  Weir,  Miss. 

RAISIN  PUDDING 
Pour  one  quart  of  boiling  water  over  six  or  eight  soda  crackers ; 
when  cool,  stir  in  three  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  teacupful 
of  raisins  (floured),  sweeten  to  taste;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in 
greased  pan  until  firm. — Mrs.  D.  G.  Caldwell,  Kingsland,  Oa. 

RICE  PUDDING 
One  teacupful  of  nee,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  I^mon.    Bake  slowly  one  and  a  half  hours. — Mrs.  Rosa 
Caughran,  Philadelphia,  Miss. 

RICE  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  rice,  boiled  soft  in  water ;  add  one  pint  of  cold  sweet 
milk,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Mix  and  bake  a  half  hour.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs,  stir  in  one  pint  of  sugar,  juice  of  lemon  ;  after  the  pudding 
is  baked  and  cooled  a  little,  pour  this  over  and  brown.  Serve  cold. — 
Mrs.  H.  O.  Lacy.  Oxford,  La. 

SOUTHERN  SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Grate  one  quart  of  potatoes,  add  two  beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  one  hour. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Fowler. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Wash  and  peel  three  good-sized  potatoes,  or  enough  to  make  three 
cupsful  of  potato  when  grated.    Grate  on  a  common  grater  into  .1  mix- 
ing bowl.    To  three  cupsful  of  the  raw  grated  potato,  add  one  well- 
beaten  egg,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice.    Mix  well 


104 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  put  into  a  well-buttered  baking  pan.  Set  this  into  a  warm  oven, 
and  when  it  begins  to  get  dark  stir  with  a  spoon  and  set  back  into  oven, 
Continue  this  until  it  has  been  stirred  three  or  four  times,  then  let  bake 
until  the  top  is  a  nice  brown.  It  may  be  served  hot,  but  is  better  if  let 
stand  until  cold. — Mrs.  Emmett  "Willis,  Boca  Grands,  Fla. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
One  pint  of  sweet  potatoes,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  rich  milk,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  raisins,  one 
teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.   Beat  all  together  until  light  and  bake  in  a  but- 
tered pan. — Mrs.  Frank  Gebhart,  Seminole.  Ala. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Take  five  eggs,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  one-fourth  pound  of  sugar: 
add  as  much  sweet  potato  as  will  thicken  it,  the  juice  and  grated  peel  of 
one  lemon ;  beat  it  very  lightly — Jewel  Taylor,  Winnsboro,  La. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Pare  and  grate  two  large  sweet  potatoes ;  cream  one  cupful  of  sugar 
and  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  potatoes  in  by  degrees  till  all  are 
light,  then  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
four  eggs.  Bake  in  a  well-greased  baking  dish.  Serve  with  sweet  cream. 
—Mrs.  T.  N.  Pearson,  Webster,  Texas. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Grate  potatoes,  and  to  each  half  gallon  of  potatoes  add  three  tea- 
cupsful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teacupful 
of  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  spice,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  Put  in  a 
well-greased  pan.  place  in  the  stove.  Keep  well  stirred  and  bake  about 
one  and  a  half  hours  until  thoroughly  done. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Hamilton, 
Choudrant.  La. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Three  large  sweet  potatoes  grated  fine,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  or  more  if  desired  ;  small  lump  of  butter :  flavor  to  suit  taste,  and 
add  a  little  salt.   Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  S.  L.  Hudson,  Rusk,  Texas. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 
Take  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  peel  and  grate  them  well,  then  add 
sweet  milk  to  make  it  into  a  batter;  six  eggs,  well  beaten;  one  tea- 
spoonful of  spice,  a  dash  of  salt,  and  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  butter ;  mix  well  and  put  into  a  well-greased  pan  and  bake  in  a  me- 
dium-hot oven. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Hamilton,  Parksville,  S.  C. 

SUNDERLAND  PUDDING 
Ten  eggs,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  every  egg.  one  quart  of 
milk,  and  a  little  salt.  Cream  the  eggs  and  flour  together  and  add  milk. 
Make  a  bag  that  will  hold  about  two  and  a  half  quarts.  Wet  bag  in 
boiling  water,  turn  wrong  side  out  and  rub  good  with  flour,  turn  back 
and  pour  pudding  in ;  tie  well  and  place  in  boiling  water.  Cook  two 
hours.  Turn  in  fifteen  minutes,  after  putting  in  pot,  to  prevent  sticking. 
When  done,  dip  bag  in  bucket  of  cold  water,  and  turn  pudding  out.  Serve 
hot  with  butter  sauce. — Fannie  Cookrey,  Lamont,  Fla. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 
One  pou*d  of  prunes,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  four  eggs. 
Stew  the  prunes,  drain  off  the  juice,  remove  the  stones  and  chop.  Beat 


PUDDINGS 


the  whites,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  stir  in  the  chopped  prunes,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  L.  O. 
Alexander,  Greenville,  S.  C. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 
Cook  one  quart  of  dried  prunes  till  done,  seed  and  mash  very  fine, 
add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth 
and  mix  sugar  and  eggs,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring,  thor- 
oughly, with  prunes ;  bake  in  moderate  oven  five  minutes,  or  till  browu. 
Serve  as  dessert  with  whipped  cream  and  cake. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Hardy, 
Clyde,  Texa*. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 
Stew  a  half  pound  of  prunes,  and  stone,  add  one  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  egg,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  one  cupful  of 
sugar.  Mash  with  potato  masher,  stir  in  milk,  to  thin  batter,  bake  in 
buttered  dish  for  one  hour,  covered ;  uncover  and  brown. — Mrs.  R.  H. 
Hall,  Webster.  Fla. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 
Wash  and  cook  twenty  prunes  until  tender.  Remove  seed  and  chop 
fine.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  To  this,  add  five 
scant  tablespoonsfu'  of  sugar.  Then  stir  in  prunes  and  boil  this  mixture 
twenty  minutes  in  double  boiler.  Serve  cold. — Mrs.  N.  B.  Stone,  We- 
wahitchka,  Fla. 

QUEEN  PUDDING 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  grated  biscuit  crumbs, 
four  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  cup- 
ful of  dried  or  fresh  apples,  well  cooked  and  mashed.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  the  milk,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  the  four  eggs  and  whites 
of  one,  mix  thoroughly  and  pour  over  the  bread  crumbs,  using  either 
lemon  or  vanilla  flavor.  Bake  in  buttered  pudding  dish  until  well  set, 
draw  to  door  of  oven  and  spread  the  apples  over  it,  which,  according 
to  season,  may  be  dried  or  fresh.  Cover  this  with  a  meringue  made  of 
whipped  whites  of  eggs  and  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar.  If  eaten  cold, 
serve  with  cream. — Louise  E.  Jones,  Pocahontas,  Tenn. 

QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS 
Yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one 
pint  of  bread  crumbs,  soaked  in  a  quart  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  one  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven,  spread  with  jelly  or  jam.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  egg,  flavor 
with  lemon,  spread  over  jelly  and  let  brown.  Flavor  pudding  with  nut- 
meg or  vanilla. — Mrs.  Lucy  M.  Perry,  Byhalia,  Miss. 

PLUM  PUDDING 
Six  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  a  half  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  a  pint  of  grated  biscuit  crumbs,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
a  half  pint  of  raisins,  a  half  pint  of  currants,  a  half  pint  of  citron,  a 
teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices,  one  of  nutmeg  and  a  tablespoonful  of  cin- 
namon. Beat  the  eggs  separately,  mix  all  together,  pour  into  a  ten- 
pound  lard  bucket,  place  it  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  four  hours. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  butter  sauce.  This  size  will  serve  sixteen 
people  bountifully,  and  is  better  when  warmed  over  than  at  first. — Mrs. 
Ernest  F.  Cochran,  Anderson,  8.  C. 

PLUM  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  one  cupful  of  grated  bread 
crumbs,  one  scant  cupful  of  molasses,  and  one  scant  cupful  of  milk.  Stir 


106 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


together  one  cupful  of  raisins,  one  cupful  of  currants,  a  little  citron,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice 
and  soda,  two  scant  cupsful  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Put  into  a  well  greased  pudding  mold  or  pail  and  cover 
closely.  Set  this  pail  into  a  larger  kettle,  half  full  of  water.  Add  boil- 
ing water  as  it  evaporates,  steaming  no  less  than  four  hours.  Put  away 
to  ripen.  When  ready  for  use,  cut  off  as  much  as  necessary,  put  in  the 
bucket  and  steam  for  one  hour.  Serve  with  hard  sauce,  made  as  follows  : 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter ;  stir  together  until  it 
creams  ;  flavor  with  brandy,  whiskey  or  vanilla. — Anonymous. 

PLUM  PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS 
One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  beef  suet,  two  cupsful  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup- 
ful of  currants,  one  spoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cin- 
namon, allspice  and  soda,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Pour  into  a  well-greased  pudding  mould,  or  three- 
quart  pail,  cover  closely,  set  pail  into  a  larger  kettle,  closely  covered  and 
half  full  of  boiling  water.  Add  boiling  water  as  it  evaporates,  steaming 
not  less  than  four  hours.  One-half  of  this  recipe  is  enough  for  eight  per- 
sons. It  will  keep  two  or  three  months.  Steam  one  hour  and  keep 
closely  covered  when  you  wish  to  warm  it — Mbs.  S.  B.  Labimore,  At- 
lanta. Ga. 

PLUM  PUDDING 
Four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cupful  of  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  rai- 
sins, two  cupsful  of  currants,  one  cupful  of  citron,  one  cupful  of  candied 
orange  peel,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  and  any  kind  of  spices 
desired.  Add  flour  until  stiff  as  can  be  beaten.  Boil  four  hours  in  mold 
or  pudding  bag. — Mes.  H.  H.  Keys,  Ingleside,  Texas. 

PEACH  OR  APPLE  PUDDING 
One  pint  of  flour,  two  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-third  cupful  of  sugar.  Roll  through  a  sieve 
and  add  three-fourths  cupful  of  milk,  one  well-beaten  egg,  and  three 
tablespoonsful  of  soft  cottolene.  Spread  this  in  a  shallow  cake  pan  that 
has  been  greased.  Cover  the  top  of  the  dough  with  canned  fruit,  sprinkle 
two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  over  this  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
for  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot,  with  sugar  and  cream,  or  egg  sauce. — Miss 
Olive  Pickett,  Fitzpatrick,  Ala. 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING 
Beat  together  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and 
three  eggs ;  then  add  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a 
little  salt  and  two  cupsful  of  persimmons  that  have  been  rubbed  through 
a  colander ;  now  add  three  rounded  cupsful  of  sifted  flour  and  beat  well. 
Bake  in  a  well-buttered  pan  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Test  with  a 
straw  the  same  as  cake  to  tell  when  done.  Sauce :  Beat  together  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  and  one  egg.  Set  vessel  contain- 
ing sauce  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  cook,  stirring  often.  A  few  min- 
utes before  taking  from  fire,  stir  in  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream. — Mrs. 
C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley.  Fla. 

PERSIMMON  PUDDING 
Four  cupsful  of  grated  sweet  potato,  two  cupsful  of  persimmons  af- 
ter they  are  seeded,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  cupful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk  or  water. 
Flavor  with  nutmeg.   Bake  in  hot  oven.  Work  the  persimmons  up  with 


PUDDINGS 


107 


warm  water  und  mash  through  colander  to  get  the  seed  and  skins  out. — 
Miss  Janie  Harrington,  Cole»  Mill,  N.  C. 

MOUNTAIN  DEW  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  rolled  crackers,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonsful  of  cocoanut,  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Bake  one-half  hour,  then  spread  with  frosting  made  of  whites 
of  four  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon.  Set  in  oven 
to  brown. — Miss  Mat  Walkek,  Sugar  Valley,  Oa. 

OATMEAL  PUDDING 
Three  cupsful  of  water,  two  cupsf ul  of  oatmeal,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  square  of  chocolate,  one  large  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Let  the  water  come  nearly  to  a  boil,  stir 
oatmeal  in  and  let  boil  until  done  (about  twenty  minutes)  ;  beat  three 
yolks  and  one  white  of  eggs  very  lightly  together,  add  a  little  water  or 
milk  (about  three  tablespoonsful),  add  sugar,  chocolate  and  eggs,  and 
let  cook  a  few  minutes-  Move  from  stove,  add  baking  powder  and  whip 
a  few  seconds,  and  then  set  in  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Take  the  two  eggs 
remaining  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth ;  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and  pile  in  a  careless  way  on  pud- 
ding. Set  back  in  oven  until  a  light  brown.  Serve  pudding  with  sweet 
cream  or  milk. — Maud  Cross,  Gaiter,  Fla. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 
Three  oranges,  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Cut  oranges  into  pieces,  half  size  of  nutmeg.  Place  in 
a  pudding  dish,  squeeze  iemon  juice  over  them,  add  a  half  cupful  of  the 
sugar,  stir  and  set  aside  while  preparing  the  rest.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  stir  in  two  teaspoonsful  of  milk,  add  the  same  quantity  of  milk  to 
the  corn-starch,  and  beat  the  two  mixtures  together.  Heat  the  rest  of 
the  milk,  and  when  boiling,  add  the  egg  and  corn-starch  mixture.  Cook 
for  five  minutes.  Add  salt  and  rest  of  sugar.  Remove  from  fire,  and  lay 
the  preparation,  one  spoonful  at  a  time,  upon  the  oranges  in  the  dish. 
Beat  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  spread  on  top 
of  pudding,  and  brown  in  stove. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Walker,  Duluth,  Oa. 

ORANGE  PUDDING 
Four  large  oranges,  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  sprinkle  over 
them  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Take  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  let  come  to  a 
boil.  Have  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten ;  three  tablespoonsful  of  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Add  egg  yolks  to  this,  also  pinch  of  salt 
Stir  this  into  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  ten  minutes,  cool  and  pour  over 
the  oranges.  Have  the  whites  beaten  very  stiff  with  two  tablespoonsful 
of  sugar.  Place  on  top  of  pudding,  and  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  very 
cold. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Heibner,  Yellow  Pine,  Ala. 

LEMON  PUDDING 
Put  on  stove  in  double  boiler  one  quart  of  rich  sweet  milk.  When 
at  the  boiling  point  add  a  mixture  made  of  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  with  milk 
or  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon  extract,  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter.   It  is  best  when  cold. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Sigmon,  Weirsdale,  Fla. 

LEMON  PUDDING 
The  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  three  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  a  pint  of  rich  milk ;  mix  to  a 


108 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


smooth  paste.  Add  the  juice  and  rind  of  the  lemon,  the  sugar  and  yolks 
well  beaten,  and  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Line  the  pan  with  paste,  one- 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick  ;  pour  in  the  custard  and  bake.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  and  brown.  Serve  with 
cream  or  whipped  cream. — Miss  Maggie  Squtbes,  Sicily  Island,  La. 

FROSTED  LEMON  PUDDING 
Take  a  pint  of  bread  or  cake  crumbs,  a  quart  of  milk,  the  juice  and 
grated  peel  of  a  lemon,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  and  sweeten  to  taste.  When 
baked,  cover  with  jelly,  make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
sugar,  pour  over  the  top,  and  set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. — 
Cecil  Rust,  Pelican,  La. 

FROSTED  LEMON  PUDDING 
Take  a  pint  of  bread  or  cake  crumbs,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  the 
juice  of  two  lemons,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  then  sweeten  to  taste. 
Bake  in  quick  oven.  When  baked  make  a  frosting  of  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  sugar  and  pour  over  the  top  and  put  in  the  oven  and  brown. — 
Maey  Hagae,  Bear,  La. 

APPLE  PUDDING 
Stew  one  quart  of  sun-dried  apples  until  very  soft.  Let  the  water 
boil  nearly  all  away.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  to  a 
cream  and  mix  it  with  the  apples.  Place  in  a  shallow  dish  and  frost 
with  hard  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  stirred 
in.  Place  in  oven  two  or  three  minutes.  Serve  cold  with  warm,  crisp 
biscuits. — Leona  Pace,  Daleville,  Miss. 

APPLE  PUDDING 
Stew  eight  or  ten  apples,  according  to  size,  and  mash  through  a  sieve. 
Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  cupful  of 
sugar.  Set  on  fire  for  five  minutes,  then  take  off,  and  let  cool.  Beat 
five  eggs  well,  then  beat  eggs  and  apples  well  together.  Place  the  mix- 
ture in  a  buttered  pan.  Place  this  in  another  pan  of  hot  water,  and  put 
into  oven  and  bake  half  hour.  When  it  is  firm,  turn  out  on  dish  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mes.  J.  A.  Gaeeick,  Dickinson,  Ala. 

APPLE  PUDDING 
One  quart  of  milk,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  three  eggs, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  melted  butter,  enough  flour  to  make  a  griddle  cake 
batter.  Fill  the  pan  half  full  of  sliced  apples.  Pour  the  batter  over 
them.  Bake  two  hours.  Eat  with  sweet  sauce. — Nabe  Jones,  New 
Lexington,  Ala. 

BAKED  PUDDING 
Take  a  quart  of  fruit  of  any  kind,  stewed  peaches  and  pears  are  good. 
Make  pastry  as  for  pies,  with  plenty  of  lard.  Roll  in  circles.  Put  one 
or  two  spoonsful  of  fruit  in  center,  a  big  drop  of  butter,  sugar  to  sweeten, 
and  roll  edges  over ;  press  together.  Put  rolls  in  pan,  place  a  little  but- 
ter and  water  over  them  and  put  in  stove  to  bake.  Serve  with  butter 
sauce. — Fannie  Cookeey,  Lamont,  Fla. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 
Stir  four  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate  into  a  quart  of  boiling 
milk.  When  it  is  beaten  smooth,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  two 
tablespoonsful  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Then  add  one 
cupful  of  sugar ;  stir  until  it  thickens  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour 
into  a  pudding  dish  and  bake  until  well  set.    Beat  the  whites  of  five 


PUDDINGS 


eggB  very  light,  add  five  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and  spread  over  the  top. 
Bake  a  delicate  brown. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Abercrombie,  Douglasville,  Oa. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 
One  egg,  a  half  teacupful  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  one  and 
a  half  teacupsful  of  flour,  a  teacupful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  two  tablespoonsful  of  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. — Mrs.  Chas.  Callaham,  Pisgah,  Ala. 

OOCOANUT  PUDDING 
Take  two  teacupsful  of  grated  cocoanut,  two  teacupsful  of  sugar, 
one  teacupful  of  sweet  cream,  one-third  cupful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of 
six  well-beaten  eggs ;  then  stir  for  a  few  minutes,  put  into  a  buttered 
pan,  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  dry ;  add 
one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon,  mix  together,  spread 
over  the  pudding,  set  in  stove,  bake  a  light  brown.  Serve  with  biscuit 
while  warm. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Hawkins,  Lingle,  Miss. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING 
One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a 
half  cupful  of  grated  cocoanut,  a  half  cupful  of  crackers,  rolled  fine,  one 
teaspoonful  of  lemor  extract ;  bake  half  an  hour.  Frosting :  Whites  of 
two  eggs,  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar ;  put  in  stove  and  brown  slightly. 
— Mbs.  F.  R.  Knight,  Peoples,  N.  C. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING 
To  one  large  cocoanut,  grated,  add  the  whites  of  eight  eggs,  one- 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  rose  water.    Bake  it  in  a  paste. — Ruby  Taylor,  Winns- 
boro,  La. 

DELMONICO  PUDDING 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  a  half  teacupful  of  sugar,  one 
heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch.  Put  milk  on  to  boil.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eggs  light,  and  add  sugar.  Stir  corn-starch  into  a  half  cupful 
of  milk.  Add  all  to  the  boiling  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  thick. 
Flavor  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  stiffly  and  add  a  half  teacup- 
ful of  sugar.  Spread  on  the  pudding  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Serve 
cold. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Frazier,  Hendersonville,  N.  C. 

CARROT  PUDDING 
A  cupful  of  grated  raw  carrots,  one  cupful  of  grated  raw  potatoes,  a 
half  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  a  half  cupful  of  currants,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  ground  cloves,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  ground  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  stirred  into  grated  potatoes, 
five  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  five  tablespoonsful  of  brown  sugar,  two 
tablespoonsfui  of  butter;  flour  fruit  well.  Sauce :  Two  cupsful  or  pow- 
dered sugar,  two  eggs,  beaten,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  beat  until 
smooth  and  flavor  with  sherry,  or  anything  one  likes  best. — Mrs.  E.  Y. 
Dieterich,  Sanford,  Fla. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 
One  quart  of  fresh  milk,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  four  table- 
spoonsful of  flour  mixed  with  water,  four  eggs,  vanilla  to  taste.  H^at 
milk  in  a  stewpan  and  brown  the  sugar  in  a  skillet  at  the  same  time. 
When  the  milk  gets  to  the  boiling  point  and  the  sugar  is  dark  ir  color, 
mix  them  together.  When  well  mixed,  add  flour  and  water  to  thicken, 
then  remove  from  the  fire.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  add  to  above 
when  it  cools  a  little.   Bake  until  thick  and  cover  with  meringue  made 


110 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


from  the  whites.  Brown  quickly  and  serve  hot  or  cold,  with  whipped 
cream. — Mbs.  H.  J.  Rogebs,  Jb.,  Rockingham,  N.  C. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 
Heat  one  pint  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point;  melt  a  half  cupful  of 
sugar ;  when  melted,  add  a  half  cupful  of  water.  Allow  the  mixture  to 
boil  for  a  minute,  then  add  to  the  milk.  Take  from  the  fire  and  let  cool 
a  little.  Beat  four  eggs,  without  separating,  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar 
and  one  spoonful  of  vanilla.  Add  the  milk,  placing  the  mixture  in  bak- 
ing dish.  Set  dish  in  pan  of  boiling  water.  Bake  until  jelly-like.  — 
Miss  Sue  B.  Somebville,  Aliceville,  Ala. 

DATE  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  chopped  dates,  one  cupful  of  chopped  English  walnuts, 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder.   Bake  in  a  slow  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 
It  is  almost  as  good  as  candy. — Mbs.  H.  Y.  Dietebich,  Sanford,  Fla. 

FRUIT  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  canned  fruit,  one  cupful  of  water,  one  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch  for  each  cupful  of  the  above.    Cook  in  a  double  boiler. 
Put  in  molds,  and  when  cold  serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with 
vanilla. — Emma  Akebs,  Billiard,  Fla. 

DRIED  FRUIT  PUDDING 
Make  an  ordinary  biscuit  dough.  Have  prepared  some  well-cooked 
fruit,  apples  and  prunes,  half  and  half,  or  peaches,  sweetened  and  fla- 
vored with  cinnamon  and  allspice.  Roll  the  dough  just  the  length  of  the 
bread  pan,  and  not  too  thin.  Spread  the  fruit  on  this,  roll  and  put  in 
pan.  Have  cooking  sauce  made  of  a  quart  of  water  into  which  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  has  been  combined  with  a  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  or  a 
good  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  cottolene.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  half  an 
hour. — Mbs.  A.  P.  Cubby,  Miami,  Fla. 

GINGER  PUDDING 
Four  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one.  cupful  of  molasses, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  buttermilk,  five  eggs, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  one-fourth  cupful  of  ginger. — Mbs.  J.  A. 
Fbazieb,  Hendersonville,  2VT.  C. 

GINGER  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Mix  well,  add  one  egg,  a  half  cupful  of 
buttermilk,  beat  in  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  beat 
until  smooth ;  dissolve  soda  in  the  buttermilk ;  bake  slowly  in  a  moder- 
ate oven.   Serve  hot  with  sauce. — Mbs.  Lucy  M.  Pebby,  Byhalia,  Miss. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING 
Sift  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  graham  flour  to  make  it  light,  add  one 
eupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  currants  or  raisins,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt,  a  half  cupf u:'  of  molasses,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  steam 
three  hours. — Mbs.  E.  B.  Holland,  Pecan,  Miss. 

INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING 
Pour  a  pint  of  scalding  milk  on  a  cupful  of  coarse  Indian  meal ;  add 
two  beaten  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  dark  molasses,  salt  and  cin- 
namon to  taste ;  add  one  pint  of  cold  milk  and  bake  two  hours,  stirring 
several  times  to  make  it  whey.   Make  a  sauce  of  one  cupful  of  powdered 


PUDDINGS 


111 


sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  beaten  to  a  creaui.  Flavor  with  nut- 
meg or  wine. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Thompson,  Pisgah,  Ala. 

INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  lard  and  one  cupful  of  syrup  (mixed),  one  cupful  of 
hot  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda  in  the  hot  water  and  stirred  in  the 
syrup,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  Hour,  sifted  in  slowly  and  well  beaten. 
Add  cooked  grapes,  rolled  in  flour,  and  any  flavor  liked.  Grapes  may  be 
left  out,  if  desired. — Mrs.  F.  D.  Talbert,  Ruston,  La. 

JAM  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  thiee-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
jam,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk ;  flavor  with  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  sweet 
milk  and  jam  ;  dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk,  add  spices  and  flour.  Grease 
a  deep  pie  pan  and  pour  in  the  above  and  bake ;  then  cover  with  me- 
ringue, and  brown.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  egg ;  cream  thoroughly,  adding  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. — Mrs.  S.  A.  Williams,  Ohatchee,  Ala. 

TRANSPARENT  PUDDING 
Beat  eight  eggs,  very  light,  add  a  half  pound  of  sugar,  the  same  of 
fresh  butter,  add  half  of  a  nutmeg,  grated.  Put  a  puff  paste  in  a  shal- 
low pan,  pour  in  the  ingredients,  sift  sugar  over  it,  and  bake  one-half 
hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  hot — Miss  Laure  Pickett,  Fitzpat- 
rick,  Ala. 

BUCKEYE  PUDDING 
Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  and  a  fourth  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  raisins,  a  half  cupful  of  warm  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  a  half  cupful  of  baking  powder.  Steam  in  greased 
mold  one  hour.  Take  from  the  mold  with  fork  and  place  on  warm  des- 
sert plates,  on  which  it  is  served  with  butter  and  sugar  sauce,  to  which 
the  beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs  have  been  added. — Abigail  M.  Henry, 
Guntersville,  Ala. 

BUCKEYE  PUDDING 
One  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  molasses,  one 
cupful  of  warm  water,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  dessertspoonful 
of  soda,  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  dissolve  soda  in  water,  steam  two  hours. 
Sauce  for  pudding :  Cream  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter, 
with  one  tablespoonful  of  warm  water.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  beat  all  together. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Palmer,  Grand  Bay.  Ala. 

CAKE  PUDDING 
Take  a  thin  layer  cake,  or  if  you  use  a  thick  cake,  slice  it  in  about 
one-inch  thick  slices ;  put  a  layer  of  the  cake  in  a  buttered  mold,  then  a 
layer  of  cocoanut,  more  cake  and  cocoanut  until  you  have  as  much  as 
wished,  then  pour  in  a  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint 
of  rich  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
extract ;  cook  until  done.  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  perfectly  stiff, 
and  add  six  tablespoonsful  of  sugar.  Spread  a  layer  of  cocoanut  on  the 
pudding,  then  spread  the  white  of  the  eggs  on,  and  let  it  brown  in  the 
stove  just  a  bit. — Mrs.  S.  L.  Phillips,  Fairburn,  Ga. 

BREAD  PUDDING 
Two  cupsful  of  grated  bread  crumbi,  three  eggs,  sugar  to  taste.  Add 
swest  milk  anough  to  make  vary  thin,  flavor  with  nutmeg.   A  little  lemon 


112 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


extract  and  soine  butter  make  this  nicer.  Save  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
i^-eat  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  and  when  pudding 
is  done,  spread  on  top  and  brown. — Miss  Norma  Davis,  North,  S.  C. 

BREAD  PUDDING 
Two  cupsful  of  bread  crumbs,  fine  as  meal,  nvo  tablespooasful  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  melted  butter,  poured  over  the  bread 
crumbs ;  two  eggs,  well  beaten  ;  one  cupful  of  raisins,  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  nutmeg  or  allspice,  two  cupsful  of  milk.  If  milk  is  sour,  put  in 
one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  if  milk  is  sweet,  put  in  a  half  teaspoon- 
f ul  of  baking  powder ;  scant  one-half  cupful  of  flour.  Put  in  mold  and 
steam  one  hour  or  more: — Miss  Marguerite  Shaves.  Fort  Meade,  Fla. 

BREAD  PUDDING 
Grease  a  deep  pie  pan  and  crumble  nearly  full  of  bread ;  make  a 
rich  custard  as  follows :  Three  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  or  sugar,  four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  flavor  as  liked.  Mix 
well  and  pour  over  crumbs.  This  should  more  than  cover  them ;  do  not 
stir ;  let  stand  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven 
till  brown. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Ballard,  Hanceville,  Ala. 

BREAD  AND  APPLE  PUDDING 
Butter  an  earthen  baking  dish,  put  a  layer  of  chopped  apples  (juicy, 
sour  ones  preferred),  at  the  bottom,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  cinnamon,  and 
a  few  bits  of  butter  ;  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs.  Proceed  in  this 
manner  until  the  dish  is  full,  having  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  the  top. 
Cover  closely  and  bake  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour,  then  remove 
cover  and  allow  to  become  a  nice  brown.  To  be  eaten  warm,  with  a  hard 
sauce  of  butter  and  sugar,  or  a  sweet  liquid  sauce. — Miss  Ethel  Pate. 
Ashville.  Ala. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING 
Take  a  deep  baking  pan  and  fit  into  it  enough  sliced  bread  for  two 
layers.  This  gives  the  right  amount  of  bread  to  cut.  Turn  out  and 
toast  each  piece  brown  on  both  sides  and  butter  generously  while  hot 
and  lay  back  in  pan,  having  the  top  layer  at  different  angles  to  the 
lower.  Prepare  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  scalded  milk,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  three  eggs,  with  a  scant  tablespoonful  of  flour  blended.  Some  ad- 
ditional butter  may  be  added  or  one-half  cottolene.  Pour  over  the  bread. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  just  before  putting  in  oven,  and  sprinkle 
sugar  over  the  whole.   Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  A.  P.  Curry,  Miami,  Fla. 

BAKE-WELL  PUDDING 
Make  rich  pie  crust  in  usual  way  and  line  two  pie  plates.  Into  a  pan 
empty  one  quart  of  quince  preserves  (apple  will  do  if  you  have  no 
quince),  and  chop  fine.  In  another  vessel,  beat  five  eggs,  leaving  out 
whites  of  three,  with  six  ounces  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Now  put  layer  of  preserves  on  each  crust  and 
cover  them  with  beaten  eggs.  Place  in  stove  and  cook  until  set.  and  then 
put  on  the  meringue,  made  out  of  whites,  beaten  stiff,  with  four  table- 
spoonsful of  sugar.  Put  back  in  stove  until  rich  brown. — Mrs.-  W.  H. 
Winters,  Union  Church,  Miss. 

BISCUIT  PUDDING 
Take  six  biscuits,  cut  in  halves,  put  in  pudding  pan,  pour  one  cupful 
of  boiling  water  over  them.  Set  in  stove  until  hot  through.  Put  in  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter, 
and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  ground  ctanamon.    Bake  light  brown  aDd 


PUDDINGS 


113 


*orve  at  ones.  This  far  surpasses  the  old-timo  bread  pudding  and  is 
quickly  made.— Mfts.  J.  Edna  Whitk,  Kempner,  Texas. 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING 
Cut  up  some  cold  biscuits,  pour  enough  of  hot  water  over  them  to  dis- 
solve them;  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  stir  in  enough  sugar  to  thicken 
the  yolks,  pour  a  cupful  of  milk  and  a  slice  of  butter  over  the  biscuits, 
and  brown.  Sweeten  the  berries,  spread  them  over  the  browned  pudding 
and  let  them  come  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  white  of  the  eggs,  spread  over  it 
and  brown. — Mrs.  T.  L.  McDanikl,  King's  Mountain,  N.  C. 

DELICIOUS  PUDDLNCi 
Mix  two  tablespoonsful  of  corn-starch  in  one  pint  of  cold  sweet  milk  ; 
stir  until  it  boils.  When  cool,  stir  in  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  beaten 
separately,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Put  in  pudding  dish  and  place  in 
pan  of  water.  Bake  one  and  one-half  hours.  Sauce  for  pudding  :  One 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  glass  of  wine.  Rub 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream  ;  add  egg  and  half  of  wine ;  put  the  dish 
in  boiling  water  and  stir  ton  minutes ;  add  rest  of  the  wine  and  serve. 
— Miss  Sue  B.  Somerville,  Aliceville,  Ala. 

PUDDING 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
seeded  raisins,  chopped  fine,  a  half  cupful  of  nuts,  chopped  fine ;  soak 
the  raisins  over  night  in  wine  before  making  the  dessert.  About  half  an 
hour  before  dinner,  beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  put  in  the  sugar, 
drain  the  wine  from  the  raisins  and  stir  them  in,  throwing  the  wine 
away :  then  add  the  nuts.  Set  in  the  stove  and  bake  a  delicate  brown 
for  a  few  moments.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  flavored  with  sherry. 
— Miss  May  E.  Salley,  tialley,  S.  C. 

PUDDING 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  flour,  a  cupful  of  jam  or  preserves,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  three 
teaspoonsful  of  sour  milk  ;  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Beat  yolks 
light,  add  sugar  and  butter,  then  sour  milk  and  soda,  creaming  together. 
Add  jam  and  flour,  beating  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  adding  last.  Bake 
slowly  in  pudding  pan  in  oven.  It  is  to  be  served  cold  with  whipped  or 
plain  cream. — Mrs.  Wm.  Lea,  Selmer,  Tenn. 

PUDDING 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  tablespoonful  of 
lard  and  one  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  buttermilk,  with  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  milk.  Half  a  cupful  of  good  syrup,  two  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  spice,  and  a  pinch  of  ginger.  Cook  in  a 
moderate  oven.  You  may  add  a  cupful  of  preserves,  or  stewed  fruit  can 
be  used  the  same  way.  Serve  this  pudding  with  a  sauce  of  sweet  milk 
and  sugar. — Miss  Maggie  L.  Hendrick,  Roberta,  Ga. 

PUDDING 

Soak  one  pint  of  fine  white  bread  crumbs  in  one  quart  of  milk  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Beat  together  until  light  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  a 
half  pint  of  sugar ;  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  softened  butter,  add  just  a 
bit  of  grated  rind  of  lemon,  two  tablespoonsful  of  lemon  juice  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Add  this  to  the  milk  and  bread,  mix,  and  add  a 
half  pint  of  cocoanut.  Bake  in  the  pudding  dish  until  the  custard  is  set 
in  the  middle.  Baat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  fire  table- 
spoonsful of  pondered  sug'ar,  beat  until  white  and  fine.   When  the  pud- 


114 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


ding  is  done,  cover  thickly  with  cocoanut,  heap  over  the  meringue,  dust 
thickly  with  powdered  sugar,  put  back  in  oven  and  brown.  Serve  cold. 
— Amy  E.  Spabe,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

PUDDING 

Six  cold  biscuits  run  through  food  chopper,  moisten  with  sweet  milk, 
add  three  well-beaten  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  bake  until  light  brown,  spread 
over  top  a  layer  of  jelly  one  inch  thick.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. — Mrs. 
J.  D.  Porter,  Senatobia,  Miss. 

PUDDING 

Take  three  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  beat  together  well,  and  add 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der or  soda.  Add  two  cupsful  of  flour,  beat  all  together  well,  pour  in  a 
deep,  hot  pan,  and  cook  very  slowly.  Sauce :  One  cupful  of  sugar  and 
enough  water  to  moisten ;  let  it  boil  a  little,  take  it  from  stove,  flavor 
with  vanilla.  In  v.  '  ing,  cut  a  slice,  place  in  a  dessert  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  over  until  ve:  juicy,  and  place  at  each  plate. — Mks.  F.  M.  Mc- 
Guckix,  Sharon,  *S  C. 

DANDY  PUDDING 
Yolks  of  five  eggs,  beaten,  four  tablespoonsful  of  corn  starch,  five 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  lemon  to  flavor,  one  quart  of 
sweet  milk.  Boil  till  it  thickens,  in  a  double  boiler ;  pour  into  dish  and 
spread  over  it  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  five  eggs,  with 
enough  sugar  to  sweeten  it  nicely,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  extract 
beaten  into  it.  Set  in  hot  oven  until  the  meringue  is  slightly  brown.  To 
be  eaten  cold. — Mrs.  L.  D.  Baldwin,  Denaud,  Fla. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  pinch  of  salt; 
flavor  with  vanilla,  sprinkle  a  salt  spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  over  the 
top  and  fold  in  three  teaspoonsful  of  sugar.  Stone  six  or  eight  prunes 
which  have  been  cocked  tender  and  sweetened.  Drain  and  cho-  fine,  care- 
fully fold  in  prunes  and  turn  into  baking  dish,  which  should  be  set  in  a 
pan  of  warm  water.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  Serve  hot  with  cream.— Mxss 
Maude  Woodward,  JoncsuUlc,  Va. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

One  pound  of  stewed  prunes,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  su- 
gar. After  prunes  are  stewed,  drain  off  juice,  remove  stones  and  chop. 
Beat  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar,  then  stir  in  prunes.  Bake  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  cold  with  whipped  cream,  flavoring  with  wine. — Mrs.  L.  H. 
Walker,  Madison,  Ga. 

ORANGE  SOUFFLE 
Take  stale  sponge  cake  and  about  six  oranges.  Peel  oranges,  slice 
them,  and  get  out  seed ;  have  ready  a  large  glass  bowl,  put  in  layer  of 
cake  (sliced  thin),  then  layer  of  oranges;  sprinkle  with  sugar;  repeat 
untiLbowl  is  nearly  full.  Over  this  pour  one  quart  of  rich  boiled  custard. 
Let  stand  one  hour  or  longer  before  serving.  Have  custard  cold  before 
pouring  over  cake.  Other  fruit  or  berries  can  be  substituted. — Mbs. 
Nellie  Craig  Bradshaw,  Fainnount,  Term. 

COBBLER 

Two  quarts  of  berries  cr  peaches,  one.  quart  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  large  .tablespoontful  of- lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt    Sift  flour  and  baking  powder,  salt. 


PtJDDINGS  —  SAUCES  —  SHORT  CAKES 


work  in  lard,  mix  with  milk  to  soft  dough.  Roll  rather  thin  and  cut  in 
strips  four  by  six  inches ;  line  the  sides  of  pan  or  baking  dish,  put  in  a 
layer  of  fruit,  sweeten,  dust  flour  over  it  and  small  bits  of  butter  about, 
cover  with  strips  of  dough,  add  another  layer  of  fruit  in  same  manner  as 
first,  and  cover;  add  boiling  water  until  dish  is  half-full ;  bake  in  slow 
oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  serve  in  its  own  juice  or  with  sauce  pre- 
pared as  follows :  Mix  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  cupful  of  sugar,  pour 
over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  let  boil  up.  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  Mary 
B.  Davis,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

CARAMELED  SWEET  POTATOES 
Pare  enough  sweet  potatoes  to  fill  a  half  gallon  measure ;  if  large, 
cut  strips  about  two  inches  thick.  Put  into  saucepan,  add  one  pint  of 
boiling  water,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter. 
Boil  until  tender  and  the  dressing  is  thick  and  like  syrup. — Mrs.  T.  S. 
Howard,  Childress,  Va. 

POTATO  PONE 
Peel  a  half  dozen  sweet  potatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  run  through 
a  food  chopper ;  add  to  this  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  pulverized  cloves,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful 
of  lard  or  butter,  two  teacupsful  of  molasses,  water  enough  to  make  it 
as  thin  as  fritter  batter.  Beat  well.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  stir  fre- 
quently until  done. — Lena  Gaskin,  Newton,  Texas. 

CREAM  SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING 
Cream  together  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  add 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  stir  into  this  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  one  large  cupful  of  hot  cream.  Beat  well,  put  into  a  saucepan 
over  the  fire  and  stir  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  but  do  not  boil. — Mrs. 
S.  B.  Larimore,  Atlanta,  Oa. 

PUDDING  SAUCE 
Cook  together  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  well- 
beaten  egg,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  a  half  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water.  Cook  until  thick.   Use  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  Nellie  Fuller. 

PUDDING  SAUCE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  water. 
Let  come  to  a  boil  and  thicken  with  a  half  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
or  flour  dissolved  in  water,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar ;  one  table- 
spoonful of  vanilla  to  be  added  just  before  taking  up. — Miss  Marguer- 
ite Shaver,  Fort  Meade,  Fla. 

GUAVA  SAUCE 
One  cupful  of  strained  guava  pulp,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful of  corn-starch  or  flour.   Boil  pulp  and  sugar,  adding  thickening, 
two  minutes.   This  can  also  be  made  with  pineapple  or  grapefruit,  and  is 
excellent  on  cottage  pudding. — Mrs.  P.  H.  Roefs,  Gainesville,  Fla. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 
One  pint  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar,  two  of  lard,  two  of  butter,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder.  Mix  into  a  stiff  dough  with  buttermilk  ;  di- 
vide in  half,  roll  thin  and  bake  on  two  griddles.  When  done,  spread  but- 
ter over  the  top  of  each  cake  and  prop  against  a  cup  to  cool.  Cap  and 
split  a  quart  of  berries,  spread  over  them  a  large  cupful  of  sugar,  put 
away  for  several  hours.  When  ready  to  serve,  spread  half  the  berries  on 
one  cake,  place  the  other  cake  on  top  and  spread  the  rest  of  the  berries 


116 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


<?T#r  it  This  will  serve  twelve  persons.  We  prefer  plain  cream  with  it 
bat  if  cream  it  scarce,  whip  it  and  spread  it  over  th«  cafca  before  serving. 
—Mis,  EE3rrST     Cc-chbaj-,  Anderscm,  8,  C, 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed 
into  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  flour,  two  even  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cream ;  bake  in  three  jelly-cake  tins ; 
when  cold  lay  between  the  cakes  nearly  one  quart  of  ripe  strawberries. — 
Mbs.  A.  J.  Kohn.  Wade.  Flo. 

ORANGE  SHORT  CAKE 
Sift  together  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  Mix  with  a  cupful  of  rich  cream,  and 
roll  out  into  two  sheets.  Brush  over  one  layer  with  melted  butter;  lay 
the  other  on  top  and  bake  a  delicate  brown.  Peel  the  oranges,  being 
very  careful  to  remove  every  seed.  Chop  fine  and  sweeten  generously. 
Divide  the  cake,  put  a  layer  of  the  orange  filling  in  the  middles,  replace 
the  top.  and  cover  with  the  filling.  Over  all  spread  a  meringue  made 
from  the  stiffly  whipped  whites  of  two  eggs  and  two  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar.    Six  oranges  will  be  required. — Lula  Howard,  Canton,  Ga. 

PEACH  SHORT  CAKE 
Make  a  dough  a  little  shorter  than  biscuit  dough.  Bake  in  hoe-cake 
style  to  a  crisp  brown.  When  done,  slice  through  and  butter  well ;  then 
cut  so  as  to  have  four  layers.  Have  ready  some  canned  peaches  that 
have  been  cooked  and  sweetened  to  taste.  Put  a  layer  of  the  hoe-cake 
in  a  flat  dish,  cover  with  the  peaches,  lay  on  this  another  slice  of  hoe- 
cake  and  cover  with  peaches  until  you  have  covered  the  four  pieces  of 
hoe-cake.  Pour  the  remaining  peaches  and  juice  over  this  and  serve  at 
once. — Mbs.  C.  T.  Mubphy.  Union,  8.  C. 

PEACH  SHORT  CAKE 
Tv  o  heaping  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  sifted  into  one  quart 
jf  flour,  a  half  teacupful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  a  little 
salt  and  enough  sweet  milk,  or  water,  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  roll  out 
almost  as  thin  as  pie  crust.  Place  one  layer  in  baking  pan,  and  spread 
with  a  little  butter,  upon  which  sprinkle  some  flour,  then  add  another 
layer  of  crust,  and  spread  as  before,  and  so  on,  until  crust  is  all  used. 
This  makes  four  layers  in  a  pan  fourteen  inches  by  seven.  Bake  about 
fifteen  minutes,  and  turn  out  upside-down.  Take  the  crusts  and  spread 
with  peaches  sweetened  with  sugar  to  taste.  Place  layer  upon  layer- 
treating  each  in  the  same  manner.  When  done  you  will  have  a  delicious 
cake  to  be  served  with  sugar  and  cream.  The  secret  of  having  light 
dough  is  to  handle  as  little  and  quickly  as  possible.  Short  cake  is  de- 
licious served  with  charlotte  russe  or  whipped  cream.  Strawberry  and 
raspberry  short  cake  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. — Miss  Rosa 
Febbetx,  Durham.  N.  C. 

FIG  SHORT  CAKE 
Make  light  biscuit  dough,  and  bake  in  a  hoe-cake.  Peel  and  boil 
until  in  pieces,  one  cupful  of  figs.  Add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Split  hoe-cake  in 
half,  place  mixture  between  :  slice  and  serve. — Miss  Nettie  Etheb- 
EDGE.  $irpetica+cr.  Ala. 


DUMPLINGS 


117 


DUMPLINGS 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS 
Place  four  pared  and  cored  tart  apples  in  cooker,  cover  with  a  rich 
biscuit  dough  and  steam  twenty  minutes.    Serve  with  cream,  sugar  and 
nutmeg  as  sauce. — Mrs.  Chas.  A.  Lindey,  Whistler,  Ala. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 
Pare  and  quarter  enough  good  cooking  apples  to  cover  well  the  bot- 
tom of  a  granite  pan  ;  size  of  pan  depends  on  number  to  be  served.  Make 
a  batter  as  for  pancakes,  using  buttermilk,  flour,  salt  and  soda.  Mix 
batter  a  trifle  thicker  than  desired  before  adding  soda,  as  the  lumps  can 
be  more  easily  beaten  out,  and  the  addition  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
water  thins  it.  Pour  this  batter  over  the  apples  in  pan  having  enough 
to  cover  the  apples  nicely.  Bake,  and  serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar. 
— Mrs.  J.  H.  Miller,  Fruit  dale,  Ala. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 
Peel  and  pare  six  apples ;  make  a  dough  as  for  biscuit,  roll  thin ; 
lay  a  small  plate  or  saucer  on  the  dough  and  cut  around  with  a  sharp 
knife.  Fill  your  rounds  with  apples,  leaving  enough  dough  to  lap  nicely. 
If  apples  are  mellow,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  if  they  are  acid, 
add  two.  Put  them  in  a  deep  pie  pan  and  bake  a  nice  brown.  Take 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  rub  over  them,  then  sprinkle  on  one  tea- 
cupful  of  sugar,  pour  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  over  them  while  hot, 
and  let  boil  over  them.  This  will  make  them  juicy. — Mrs.  EL  J.  Gbau- 
i.ee,  Dora,  Ala. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS 
Peel  six  medium-sized  apples,  cut  in  small  dice  pieces,  make  a  dough 
as  for  biscuits,  only  use  more  lard  (butter  is  better),  roll  real  thin,  cut  in 
rounds  (by  laying  a  saucer  on  the  dough  and  cutting  around  with  a 
knife)  ;  in  each  round  put  two  or  three  tablespoonsful  of  the  apples, 
and  two  teaspoonsful  of  sugar,  fasten  the  edges  of  the  dough  together 
on  top  and  in  the  center  of  each  dumpling  put  a  half  teaspoonful  of  but- 
ter. Place  all  in  good-sized  granite  pan,  sprinkle  one  cupful  of  sugar 
and  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  whole ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce  :  One 
cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful 
of  corn-starch  (or  flour),  mixed,  add  boiling  water  and  cook  until  it  be- 
gins to  thicken ;  flavor  with  grated  nutmeg. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Woodruff, 
Century,  Fla. 

OLD-FASHIONED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 
One  quart  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  salt,  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  lard;  mix  to  a  stiff  dough  with  buttermilk.  Pare  and  quarter 
ripe  tart  apples.  Take  a  piece  of  the  dough  about  the  size  of  a  biscuit, 
roll  out,  and  fill  with  the  apples,  or  enough  to  fill  the  small  piece  of 
dough  ;  close  into  a  ball.  Make  as  many  as  desired.  Have  a  6aucepan 
of  boiling  water,  put  in  the  balls  and  boil  without  covering  until  done; 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


serve  with  the  following  sauce;  Rub  butter  and  sugar  together  until 
like  cream,  add  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water  and  essence  of  lemon  to 
taste. — A  nonym  ova 

FRUIT  DUMPLINGS 
Take  an  enameled  pan  that  is  large  enough  to  hold  sufficient  for  the 
number  of  persons  to  be  served.  Put  into  it  plenty  of  any  good,  juicy 
fruit.  Add  sugar  to  make  quite  sweet.  Place  on  the  stove  till  the  fruit 
boils.  Prepare  dough  as  for  fruit  pie,  making  as  much  as  needed.  When 
the  fruit  boils,  drop  the  dough  in  from  a  spoon.  Place  in  a  moderate 
oven  and  bake  a  light  brown.  Use  plenty  of  fruit  and  sugar;  have 
dumpling  rich  and  light. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Stratton,  Bagioell,  Terns. 

GUAVA  DUMPLINGS 
One  cupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lard,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  sift  flour,  baking  powder 
and  salt ;  rub  in  lard  and  add  milk  to  make  dough  as  for  biscuit.  Roll 
and  cut  in  four  squares.  In  center  of  each  place  a  handful  of  guavas 
from  which  seeds  and  pulp  have  been  removed,  and  place  to  cook.  Roll 
the  dumplings  and  put  in  pan  where  juice  was  strained  from  seeds  and 
pulp,  adding  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes,  basting  frequently.  Serve  with  sugar  and  cream, 
guava  sauce  or  mock  cream. — Mrs.  P.  H.  Roefs,  Gainesville,  Fla. 

CHICKEN  DUMPLINGS 
Two  eggs,  beaten  thoroughly ;  add  one  pint  of  buttermilk  and  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  lump  of  butter  or  lard,  size  of  hickory  nut, 
salt.  Sift  flour  to  make  very  stiff  dough,  using  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Have  plenty  of  water  in  kettle,  and  drop  bits  of  dough 
size  of  walnut  into  the  kettle  on  and  around  the  chicken.  Dip  the  spoon 
after  each  one  in  the  liquid  to  make  dough  slide  off  easily.  Let  boil  for 
about  fifteen  minutes  without  cover,  then  put  on  cover  and  let  steam  for 
five  minutes.  They  should  be  light  and  dry  inside  and  can  be  eaten 
when  the  harder  kinds  are  considered  indigestible ;  they  are  delicious. 
Serve  on  large  platter  with  the  chicken  and  thickened  gravy. — Mbs. 
J.  W.  Ceebze,  Knowville,  Term. 

CHICKEN  DUMPLINGS 
Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
three  or  four  tablespoonsful  of  water  or  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  very 
stiff  batter.  Drop  into  chicken  broth  while  broth  is  boiling.  Let  boi! 
with  cover  on  only  a  few  minutes.  A  pinch  of  thyme  added  to  dumplings 
makes  a  fine  improvement. — Mrs.  Willis  L.  Lyon,  White  House,  Fla. 

DUMPLINGS 

Stew  chicken  or  beef  until  tender,  but  have  plenty  of  broth.  If  not 
rich  enough,  add  some  butter,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
basing  powder  and  a  little  less  than  one  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Mix  well, 
add  some  boiling  broth  until  mixture  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Drop 
into  the  stew  and  allow  to  cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Just  before  re- 
moving from  the  fire,  stir  in  a  little  flour  moistened  with  water  to  thicken 
the  gravy. — Mrs.  N.  K.  Williams,  Galbis,  Cuba. 

MEAT  DUMPLINGS 
Three  eggs,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  to  roll  out  thin  like 
noodles.  Cut  in  squares  about  four  by  five  inches,  and  fill  each  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  the  following:  One  pound  of  hamburger  steak,  four 
onions,  a  half  loaf  of  home-made  bread,  two  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  nut- 
meg to  taste.   Slice  onions  and  fry  a  light  brown,  in  butter.    Soak  the 


DUMPLINGS 


bread  in  cold  water,  squeeze  out  dry  and  put  in  with  the  onions  and 
steam  a  few  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  mix  all  ingredients. 
Moisten  edges  of  dumplings  and  lap  together  and  cook  in  stock  about 
fifteen  minutes  and  serve  as  soup.  A  little  parsley  may  be  added  if  de- 
sired. If  any  filling  is  left,  make  iuto  small  balls  and  cook  in  stock  or 
salted  water. — Mrs.  J.  G.  Schmidt,  Fort  Myers,  Fla. 

CORN  MEAL  DUMPLINGS 
Scald  a  small  quantity  of  meal ;  leave  dough  very  stiff.  Add  small 
quantity  of  buttermilk,  with  a  pinch  of  soda,  a  spoonful  of  lard,  chopped 
onions,  black  and  red  pepper  to  taste,  and  salt.  Cook  in  flat  vessel  in 
boiling  water,  with  more  lard  added.  Lard  must  be  very  nice  and  sweet, 
or  liquor  from  nice,  fat  piece  of  boiled  pork  may  be  used. — Mbs.  Starke 
Willis.  Grays  Port.  Miss. 

HARD  SAUCE  FOR  FRUIT  DUMPLINGS 
Cream  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter. 
Just  before  serving  add  a  fourth  cupful  of  boiling  water,  the  stifflv 
beaten  white  of  one  egg,  and  vanilla  to  taste. — Mrs.  E.  B.  Holland. 
Pecan,  Miss. 


120 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


CAKES 


SPONGE  CAKE 
Good  sponge  cake  should  be  as  yellow  as  gold,  of  velvety  softness,  and 
tender  as  marshmallow.  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  eggs ; 
when  the  whites  are  stiff  enough  to  remain  in  the  bowl  when  it  is  in- 
verted, beat  into  them  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  which  must  be  granulated. 
Powdered  sugar  makes  tough  cake.  Proper  beating  does  away  with  the 
grains.  After  the  yolks  are  beaten,  add  to  them  another  half  cupful  of 
sugar,  beating  for  five  minutes  by  the  clock,  the  latter  being  important, 
as  the  delicate  texture  of  the  cake  depends  upon  it.  Add  to  the  yolks 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon ;  now  beat  well  together  the  yolks 
and  whites.  At  this  stage  beating  is  in  order,  but  must  be  absolutely 
avoided  after  adding  the  flour,  of  which  use  one  cup.  The  mixture 
should  now  look  like  a  puff  ball  and  the  flour  should  be  tossed  or  stirred 
into  it  with  a  light  turn  of  a  wooden  spoon.  Stirring  is  quite  different 
from  beating.  The  cup  of  sugar  must  be  generous,  the  flour  scanty. 
Bake  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Just  before  putting 
in  oven,  sprinkle  on  top  through  a  sifter  about  a  tablespoonful  of  granu- 
lated sugar.  This  gives  the  crackly  top  crust  so  desirable. — Miss 
Vivian  Hodges,  Oillis,  La. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  water,  two  cups- 
ful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  any  desired 
extract.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  three  times;  after  measuring, 
beat  eggs  three  minutes ;  add  sugar,  beat  three  minutes  more ;  add 
water,  with  little  flour  to  keep  from  separating,  beat  three  minutes ; 
add  flour  and  baking  powder,  and  beat  three  minutes ;  then  add  extract 
and  beat  again. — Mbs.  J.  H.  Miller,  Fruita'ue,  Ala. 

SPONGE  CAI<  E 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla  extract, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of  boiling  water. 
Bake  in  layers.  When  cool,  fill  with  whipped  cream,  add  a  little  vanilla 
extract  to  cream.  No  lard  nor  butter  is  used. — Mrs.  Willis  L.  Lyon, 
White  House,  Fla. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Grease  pan,  then  sift  together,  five  times,  two  cupsful  of  flour  and 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  then  take  four  eggs,  all  together, 
beat  until  real  light;  then  add,  gradually,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  then 
the  flour ;  last,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  stir  well,  and  put  in  oven  to 
bake  quickly. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Dunlap,  Van  Bvren,  Ark. 

SPONGE  OAKB 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  a  half  cupful  of  water.    Mix  sugar  and  flour,  then  water,  then 
eggs.    Beat  well  and  Lake  in  three  layers.    Most  any  filling  preferred 


CAKES 


121 


trill  do,  but  the  one  I  use  is  this  :  One  cupful  of  milk,  three  or  four  tea 
spoonsful  of  sugar,  three  or  four  teaspoonsful  of  flour,  Flavor  to  taste. 
Mix  sugar  and  flour  first,  as  that  prevents  lumps  in  cream.  Stir  while 
cooking,  and  cook  till  thick.  Put  on  cake  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  from 
oven,  as  it  so  hardens  that  layer  will  not  ft  on  ntppr  when  rnnl.  Mrk. 
Glenn  Baxter,  Louisville,  Ala. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  flour  before  sifting,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der, six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  together 
very  lightly,  add  six  tablespoonsful  of  cold  water,  and  one-half  the  flour 
and  whites  a  t  a  time.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  biscuit  pan. — Mrs.  H.  S. 
Dale. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  stir  in  gradually 
one  cupful  of  sifted  flour  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  then 
one  cupful  of  sifted  flour  into  which  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder 
have  been  stirred,  and  lastly,  a  scant  teacupful  of  boiling  water ;  stir  in 
a  little  at  a  time.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flavor.  However  thin  the 
mixture  may  seem,  do  not  add  any  more  flour. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jr., 
Teddy,  Ala. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Five  eggs,  three  teacupsful  of  flour,  two  teacupsful  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together  fifteen  minutes ;  beat  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  stir  them  in,  then  the  boiling  water,  and  last,  the  flour,  into 
which  has  been  sifted  the  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  biscuit  pan,  and 
when  cool,  put  on  the  icing.  Cut  in  squares  to  serve. — Mrs.  W.  H. 
Walker,  WUlard,  Oa. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Beat  three  eggs  very  light,  add  a  half  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  beat  again.  Stir 
in  one  cupful  of  fine  white  sugar,  one  heaping  cupful  of  flour  ;  with  flour 
sift  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  bake  quickly ;  cut  in 
squares.  This  is  fine  for  jelly  roll,  also  for  tea  cakes,  baked  in  muffin 
rings. — Mrs.  F.  D.  Rood,  Montreat,  N.  C. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Beat  six  eggs  for  three  minutes,  add  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar, 
beat  five  minutes,  add  two  teacupsful  of  well-sifted  flour  and  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  well,  add  a  cupful  of  cold  water 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  then  a  half  lemon,  grated.  Beat  well,  add 
two  more  cupsful  of  flour.  Beat  one  minute,  put  in  a  large  square  pan 
which  is  well-greased  and  lightly  sifted  with  flour.  Cook  quickly. — 
Miss  Norma  Davis,  North,  S.  C. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  flour.   Beat  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately.    Mix  sugar  and  yolks  and  one-half  of  the 
whites,  add  flour.   Mix  lightly,  then  the  rest  of  the  whites.    Flavor  with 
vanilla  or  lemon. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jr.,  Teddy,  Ala. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Four  eggs,  two  even  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cupful  of  hot 
water,  one  and  three-fourths  cupsful  of  flour,  even  measure,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder,  salt :  flavor  with  lemon.    Beat  the  eggs 
separately.    To  the  yolks  gradually  add  the  sugar;   mix  well.  Then 


122 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


add  hot  water.  Mix  the  baking  powder  with  the  flour  and  add  part  of 
the  flour,  then  part  of  the  well-beaten  whites,  and  so  on  until  all  is 
used.  Flavor.  It  will  be  thin,  but  do  not  add  any  more  flour.  Bake  in 
a  moderately  quick  oven. — Leona  Pace,  Daleville,  Miss. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  stir  as 
stiffly  as  possible  with  flour,  then  add  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  soda  and  nutmeg,  or  any  flavoring  desired.   The  bat- 
ter will  seem  thin,  but  will  turn  out  right. — Maby  Webb.  Fulton,  Miss. 

,  SPONGE  CAKE 
Balance  the  sugar  with  fourteen  eggs  and  flour  with  seven.  Beat 
eggs  perfectly  light,  then  add  flour  and  pinch  of  salt.    Bake  in  loaf  or 
muffin  rings  or  layers,  with  grape  jelly  between. — Miss  Olive  R.  Pick- 
ett, Fitzpatrick,  Ala. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
A  sponge  cake  which  can  be  used  for  the  foundation  of  any  layer 
cake  with  perfect  success  :  Three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
two  heaping  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
milk  or  thin  cream.  Mix  the  flour,  sugar  and  baking  powder,  add  the 
eggs,  unbeaten,  and  the  milk ;  flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  four  layers. 
— Mbs.  A.  M.  Adams,  Macon,  Miss. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one 
cupful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Pour 
into  a  baking  pan ;  bake  slowly,  and  wb^n  done,  rpread  jelly  or  jam  over 
it.  Roll  up  and  wrap  in  cloth. — Mas.  W.  W.  Gbay,  Clanton,  Ala. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
sugar,  a  Jialf  cupful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Beat  eggs  and  add  sugar,  then  half  of  the  water,  and  flour  with 
baking  powder  sifted  in  it ;  add  other  half  of  water  last  Use  any  fla- 
voring you  prefer. — Mbs.  J.  B.  Tyneb,  Williston,  Flu. 

HOT  WATER  SPONGE  CAKE 
Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  three-fourths 
cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  lemon. — Mbs.  A.  J.  Bbye,  Hilliard,  Fla. 

A  CHEAP  SPONGE  CAKE 
Into  a  bowl  put  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  sifted,  and  break 
into  it  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Beat  to  a  cream,  then  add,  stirring  steadily, 
a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour  sifted  with 
a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  ;  lastly, 
fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a  loaf  tin. — Mbs. 
Lenix  Swango,  Maytoicn,  Ky. 

CHOCOLATE  SPONGE  CAKE 
Six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Separate  the  eggs,  beat  whites  to  stiff  froth,  beat  yolks  until 
lemon  color,  add  sugar,  and  beat  until  very  creamy;  add  whites  and 
fold  in  flour  in  which  baking  powtter  has  been  sifted,  lightly ;  much  stir- 
ring after  flour  has  been  added  will  render  cake  tough.    Bake  in  two 


CAKES 


128 


medium-sized  oblong  pans.  While  cakes  are  still  warm,  spread  choco- 
late, roll  up  and  wrap  in  napkin  until  cold.  Filling :  One-fourth  of  a 
pound  of  bitter  chocolate,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  one-half  cupful  of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Put  chocolate,  sugar,  butter  and  water  in  saucepan  and  cook  until  thick. 
Remove  pan  from  the  fire  and  stir  until  cool ;  add  vanilla  and  spread 
on  cake. — Mrs.  M.  H,  Ovebstreet,  Attapulgus,  Oa. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE 
Six  eggs  (leaving  out  the  whites  of  three),  two  and  a  half  teacupsful 
of  flour,  two  teacupsful  of  sugar,  one  teacupful  of  boiling  water,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  to  taste.  Icing :  Three  cupsful  of 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  whites  of  three  eggs.  Boil  sugar  until  when 
dripping  from  spoon  it  will  spin  a  thread.  Add  to  the  whites,  beaten 
stiff  and  dry. — Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  8.  C. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  six  eggs  (less  the  whites  of  three),  one  cupful 
of  boiling  water,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of 
baking  powder  in  flour.  Beat  yolks  a  little,  add  sugar  and  beat  fifteen 
minutes,  add  beaten  whites  and  cupful  of  boiling  water  just  before  the 
flour.  Flavor  to  suit.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.  Extra  whites  may  be 
used  for  frosting. — Mrs.  H.  Y.  Dieterich,  Sanford,  Fla. 

VELVET  CAKE 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  one-fourth  cupful  of  sugar,  four  eggs, 
two  and  a  half'cupsful  of  flour,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  sifted  in  the  white 
of  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  square  pan,  and  when  cold,  cut 
in  squares. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Cook,  Evergreen,  Ala. 

SPICE  CAKE 

White  part :  Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful 
of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  scant  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Dark 
part :  Yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups- 
ful of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground 
cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  ginger,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg, 
and  two  cupsful  of  flour.  Dissolve  soda  in  tablespoonful  of  boiling 
water,  and  add  last  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing. 
Icing :  Whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  one  large  cupful  of 
granulated  sugar  moistened  with  four  tablespoonsful  of  hot  water.  Boil 
sugar  briskly  for  five  minutes,  or  till  it  jingles  on  the  bottom  of  the  cup 
when  dropped  into  cold  water,  or  ropes  or  threads  when  dropped  from 
the  end  of  a  spoou.  Then  with  the  lef,:  hand  pour  the  boiling  syrup 
upon  the  beaten  eggs  in  a  small  stream,  while  beating  hard  with  the  right 
hand. — Mrs.  V.  M.  Crlisinger,  Victoria,  Texas. 

CHEAP  SPICE  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  sifted 
pastry  flour,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a  half  teaspoou- 
ful  each  of  nutmeg,  spice,  cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  and  salt ;  three- 
fourths  cupful  of  milk  or  water.  Use  vanilla  and  lemon  extract,  about 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  each,  yolks  of  four  eggs  or  two  whole  ones.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  thoroughly  and  add  eggs.  Sift  together  three  times, 
flour,  baking  powder,  spices  and  salt,  and  add  alternately  with  milk. 
Bake  in  thin  layers.    Make  a  sauce  of  one  cupful  of  grated  chocolate. 


124 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


two  cupsful  each  of  sugar  and  milk,  boil  until  it  hardens  enough  for 
icing,  remove  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  vanilla  extract  to 
suit  taste.  Beat  until  thoroughly  smooth  and  put  between  layers,  also 
ice  cakes  with  the  same.  Then  wrap  and  let  set  for  a  few  days.  If  you 
should  let  cakes  get  too  dry,  dampen  a  little  with  warm  water  before  ap- 
plying chocolate, — Mrs.  Sam  W.  Flournot,  Elk  City,  Okla. 

SPICE  CAKE 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  When  baking  in  a  mold,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  chocolate,  nutmeg,,cloves,  cinnamon.  Put  in  after  the  batter 
is  in  the  mold ;  stir  a  little  bit. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Hine,  Old  Town,  N.  C. 

SPICE  CAKE 

Six  eggs,  save  two  whites  for  icing,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  nutmeg,  spice,  cloves,  cinnamon.  Make  a  very  thin  batter. 
— Mrs.  Jko.  Purvis,  Stephenville,  Texas. 

SPICE  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  four 
eggs,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after 
each  ;  sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  spices  together,  and  add  alternately 
with  milk.  Bake  in  a  loaf  for  one  hour. — Mrs.  Julius  Whittixoton, 
Roxie,  Miss. 

SPICE  CAKE 

Take  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  two  cupsful  of  sifted  flour. — Mrs. 
Clint  Simmons,  Star  Hill,  La. 

CINNAMON  CAKE 
Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  foui 
cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together,  then  add  whites  of  eggs, 
well  beaten ;  flour  and  milk  alternately  until  ali  are  in.  Have  a  deep 
pan  well  greased,  and  put  in  one-fourth  of  batter.  Then  put  in  a  bowl 
one-third  of  remaining  batter,  and  stir  in  enough  cinnamon  to  make  it 
look  dark ;  put  in  the  pan  on  the  white  batter  and  then  add  the  remain- 
ing white  batter.  Bake  about  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
J.  R.  Hogg,  LaGravge,  Ga. 

CINNAMON  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  a  half  cupful  of  butter, 
yolks  of'three  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  two  cupsful  of  flour, 
two  spoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  mix  all  together.  Maco  icing :  Two 
cupsful  of  powdered  sugar,  a  fourth  cupful  of  butter ;  cream  together 
and  thin  with  cold  coffee. — Mrs.  Noah  H.  Davis,  Lakeland,  Fla. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 
Whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  rounded  teaspoons- 
ful of  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  and  milk  alter- 
nately, the  baking  powder  first  having  bsen  sifted  with  flour.  Wbe-a 
thoroughly  mixed,  lightly  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.    Bake  in  a 


CAKES 


125 


loaf.  When  cold,  slice  into  four  layers.  Icing: :  Grate  (or  scrape)  two 
cocoanuts.  Beat  stiffly  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  add  powdered  sugar  till 
thick  enough  to  spread  nicely.  Ice  bottom  layer  and  sprinkle  thickly 
with  cocoanut.  Ice  bottom  of  next  layer  and  olace  on  first,  and  so  on, 
till  all  is  iced.  Ice  top  and  sides  of  cover  with  cocoanut. — Mrs.  R.  H. 
PALMER,  Jr.,  Lebanon,  Tenn. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 
To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs,  add  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar, 
three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  five  eggs, 
beaten  stiff.  Icing :  Beat  well  the  white  of  one  egg,  mix  with  one  cupful 
of  white  sugar,  spread  between  layers,  then  sprinkle  with  cocoanut. — 
Mrs.  S.  A.  McGough,  T  ok  nicy,  Ala. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 
Cream  together  one  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupsful  of  sugar ;  add 
the  whites  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  This  cake  is  to  be 
cooked  in  tins-  The  more  it  is  beaten  the  better  it  will  be.  Filling : 
Grate  one  ten-cent  cocoanut ;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff: 
froth  ;  put  a  cupful  of  sugar  in  a  double  boiler  and  pour  the  whites  of 
eggs  in,  stirring  constantly,  for  ten  minutes.  Then  add  the  grated  cocoa- 
nut.  Spread  between  cakes  while  hot. — Mrs.  Peyton  H.  Colquitt, 
Miro,  La. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  four  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  four  eggs,  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
grated  cocoanut ;  cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  the  eggs, 
then  the  milk  and  cocoanut.  Sift  the  flour,  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  to- 
gether. Mix  well. — Mrs.  H.  O.  Lacy,  Oxford,  La. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  flour,  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one 
cupful  of  milk.  Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  light  cream,  add  the  eggs 
two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  after  each  addition.  Sift  the  flour 
and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to  the  butter,  etc.  Add  milk  last. 
Bake  in  layers.  When  cold,  put  together  with  the  following  filling : 
Boil  two  cupsful  of  sugar  until  it  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water, 
take  from  fire,  pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  add  one 
grated  cocoanut  and  beat  with  fork  until  creamy. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Wood- 
ruff, Century,  Fla. 

COCOANUT  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and 
whites  of  three,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  added  the  last  thing.  Bake  in  four 
layers.  Filling :  Make  a  boiled  frosting  by  adding  the  juice  of  orange 
to  one  cupful  of  sugar,  boil  until  it  threads,  add  to  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs,  then  ona-fourth  pound  of  cocoanut. — Mrs.  H.  H.  Keys,  Ingle- 
side,  Texas. 

COCOANUT  LAYER  CAKE 
Take  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  and  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three- 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  ;  work  them  together  until  light  and  creamy. 
Take  two  cupsful  of  flour,  nearly  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  add  a  little 
flour  and  a  little  milk,  until  you  have  it  all  in.  Put  in  one  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  extract,  one  hearting  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.    Add  the 


126 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  cocoanut,  and  bake  in  layers. 
Frosting :  Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  stiff,  add  three-fourths  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Spread  on  layers  and 
top  of  cake  and  sprinkle  with  cocoanut — Mbs.  Edith  Turner,  Cow- 
pens,  8.  C. 

COCOANUT  LAYER  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  six  eggs  (saving  whites 
of  two  for  filling),  four  cupsful  of  flour,  into  which  is  sifted  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  vanilla  extract.  First,  beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream, 
beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately,  add  yolks  to  sugar  and  butter, 
and  beat  thoroughly ;  add  a  little  of  whites,  and  beat ;  add  a  little  flour, 
and  beat ;  add  some  milk,  and  beat ;  add  whites,  and  beat ;  add  flour, 
and  so  on,  until  all  are  added  and  beaten  thoroughly ;  add  vanilla  and 
bake  in  thin  layers.  Filling  :  One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  water.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick  and  creamy.  Cool,  add  shredded  cocoanut,  and  put  on  thickly  be- 
tween layers. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Jenkins,  Putney,  Oa. 

COCOANUT  LOAF  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  flour, 
tour  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der.  Beat  eggs  separately. — Mrs.  L.  G.  Tipton,  Andalusia,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  a  half 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Filling :  One  cupful 
of  sugar,  six  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  milk,  three  heaping  tablespoonsful 
of  grated  chocolate.  Place  all  in  a  pan,  boil  briskly  for  six  minutes ; 
after  boiling,  stir  in  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  between  layers 
and  on  top  of  cake  while  warm. — Mrs.  S.  A.  McGough,  Townley,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Beat  two  eggs  until  thick.  Then  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar.  Cream 
one-fourth  cupful  of  butter  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  combine  the 
two  mixtures.  Then  alternately  a  half  cupful  of  milk  and  one  and  a 
half  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  with  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  pow- 
der. Add  three  ounces  of  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water.  Flavor  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Put  together 
with  boiled  icing  and  spread  on  top.  Boiled  icing  for  cake :  Make  icing 
of  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  with 
enough  hot  water  to  dissolve.  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  forms  a  soft 
ball  when  tested  in  cold  water,  then  pour  in  slowly  over  the  beaten  white 
of  one  egg.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  between 
layers  and  on  top. — Miss  Laura  Ward,  Edwards  Miss. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Part  one :  One  cupful  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar, 
a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk ;  set  on  stove  until  dissolved,  but  do  not  boil. 
Part  two  :  One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half 
cupful  of  shortening,  two  cupsfui  of  flour,  three  eggs,  yolks  only,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder-  Bake  in  layers. — 
Mrs.  F.  McFarland,  Pinellas  Perk,  Fla. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Cream  together  one  heaping  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of 
butter,  add  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  hali  cupful  of  fresT*  buttermilk*  In 


CAKES 


which  dissolve  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  ©ne  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour  and 
one  square  of  melted  chocolate.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling  :  Boil  together 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  fresh  buttermilk,  add  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  When  the  syrup  threads  or  will  form  a  soft 
ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  remove  from  the  fire ;  stir  until  cool. 
It  should  be  thick  enough  so  it  will  not  run  off  the  spoon,  but  not  too 
hard. — Mbs.  R.  P.  Ubsery,  Starr,  S.  0. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Cream  together  one  cupful  of  butter 
and  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar.  Add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  sift 
one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  with  enough  flour  to  make  a 
soft  batter ;  bake  in  three  layers.  For  the  filling,  dissolve  half  a  block 
of  chocolate  (after  shaving  up  fine  with  knife)  in  one-half  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  add  this  to  beaten  whites  of  egg,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
spread  between  and  on  top  of  layers. — Minnie  E.  Bbamblett,  Cum- 
wing,  Oa. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of 
sour  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  chocolate,  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water  (to 
dissolve  the  chocolate),  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  stir  in 
flour  last.  Filling :  Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  but- 
ter, one-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk ;  boil  till  it  threads.  Let  all  cool. — 
Mbs.  H.  J.  Rogers,  Jb.,  Rockingham,  y.  0. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Four  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful 
of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Filling :  One  cupful  of 
sugar,  small  piece  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Put  on  stove, 
boil  slowly  five  minutes.  Add  a  little  hot  water  and  chocolate  until  it 
thickens.  This  is  also  nice  for  the  top  of  a  loaf  cake. — Mbs.  L.  C.  Tip- 
ton, Andalusia.  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  and  not  quite  two- 
thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  small  teaspoons- 
ful of  baking  powder,  thoroughly  sifted  with  three  cupsful  of  flour.  Stir 
sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk  and  flour,  and  last,  whites  of  eggs. 
Filling  :  Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful 
of  butter,  a  scant  half  cupful  of  chocolate  or  cocoa.  Let  come  to  a  boil 
quickly,  stir  constantly ;  take  off ;  beat  till  cool  enough  to  spread. — TlJf- 
HIE  Williams.  Florence,  Miss. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  yolks  of  five  eggs  and 
whites  of  two,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour.  Bake  in  jelly  tins.  Fill- 
ing :  Whites  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  pulverized  sugar  to  make  thick  enough  to  spread. 
— Mbs.  Annie  M.  Floyd,  Asheville.  N.  C. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of 
unsifted  flour,  six  eggs  (save  whites  of  three),  one  cupful  of  cold  water, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  sifted  two  or  three  times  with  flour. 
Cream  butter,  or  if  lard  is  used,  put  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt  in 


128  FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  beat  well.  Then  put  in  sugar  and  proceed  as  for  any  cake.  Bake  in 
layers.  Filling :  Whites  of  three  eggs,  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  ounces 
of  chocolate,  butter  the  size  of  a  large  marble.  Boil  sugar  with  one  and 
a  half  cupsful  of  water  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball,  have  eggs  beaten  stiff, 
and  put  chocolate  broken  in  pieces  and  butter  on  end  of  dish  with  egg ; 
pour  hot  syrup  on  and  beat  until  chocolate  is  dissolved  and  icing  is 
creamy.  The  butter  will  make  it  smooth,  and  keep  it  from  getting  hard 
and  brittle. — Mbs.  W.  H.  Holland,  Ninety-Six,  S.  O. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  four  eggs, 
one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  three-fourths  cupful  of  chocolate, 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Cream  filling  for  same :  Two  and  two- 
thirds  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  one  tablespoonf ul  of  flour,  juice  and  rind,  grated,  of  one  lemon ; 
stir  frequently  while  cooking;  as  soon  as  it  boils  thick  like  syrup,  or 
strings,  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  for  fifteen  minutes  or  longer; 
spread  on  cake  quickly  or  it  will  get  too  hard.— Olivia  V.  Smith, 
Waynesboro,  Miss. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Cream  together  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  eight 
egg-yolks  and  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Add  the  well-beaten  eggs  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  one  cupful  of 
flour ;  add  sweet  milk  and  balance  of  flour  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
five  agate  layer  pans.  Chocolate  filling :  A  half  cupful  of  grated  choco- 
late, a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  vanilla,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Boil  milk  and  choco- 
late together  until  thick  and  creamy,  then  add  sugar ;  stir  until  smooth. 
Cook  two  minutes,  and  add  butter  and  vanilla.  Beat  until  cool  and 
spread  on  all  the  layers.  Decorate  the  top  of  the  cake  with  English  wal- 
nut meats  sliced  in  half. — Mbs.  J.  L.  Sinclaib,  Tyler,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  four  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  gradually  add  flavor  and 
sweet  milk ;  lastly,  fold  the  beaten  whites  in.  Bake  in  layers. — Mbs. 
H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  S.  G. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter.  Cream  well,  add  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  Now  add  the  fudge,  which  has  been  allowed  to  cool  a 
little,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  nuts,  cut  fine,  three  cupsful  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder;  add  last,  stiff-beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Use  either  white  or  chocolate  icing. 
Chocolate  fudge :  One  heaping  cupful  of  grated  unsweetened  or  bitter 
chocolate,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Boil  until 
it  thickens,  then  add  to  batter. — Mbs.  Sat.t.te  M.  R.  Lano,  Sanders- 
mile,  Oa. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  whole 
eggs  and  two  yolks,  three  of  flour,  sifted  twice,  with  one  heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  bake  in  layers  and  put 
together  with  filling  made  as  follows :  Boil  two  cupsful  of  sugar  with  a 
half  cupful  of  water  until  the  syrup  hardens  when  dropped  into  cold 
water ;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour  over  them  the 
boiling  syrup,  beating  all  the  time.    Add  to  this  two-thirds  cupful  of 


CAKES 


129 


prated  chocolate.  Beat  till  stiff  enough,  flavor  with  vanilla,  one  tea- 
spoonful,  and  spread  thickly  between  layers  and  over  top.  This  makes 
a  large  cake.  Five  eggs  will  be  enough  for  batter  and  filling,  by  keeping 
out  two  whites  for  icing. — Mrs.  Lessie  H.  Fort,  Pelion,  S.  C. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE 
Cream  together  six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  and  one  cupful  of  but- 
ter, then  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour  in  which 
have  been  sifted  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder;  bake  in 
thin  layers.  Filling :  Put  in  a  saucepan  one  cupful  of  water  and  one 
cupful  of  milk ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  one  square  of  grated 
chocolate  and  a  half  cupful  of  sugar.  Let  thicken,  then  pour  in  a  dish. 
Let  cool  and  spread  between  layers. — Miss  Agnes  Hiers,  Clito,  Oa.  . 

CALEDONIA  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Two  squares  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  halt* 
cupful  of  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Boil  this  mixture  until  it  thickens,  then 
remove  and  .cook.  Set  this  aside.  Next,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a 
half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
egg  and  one  yolk,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved'in  hot  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  soda,  milk  and 
one  cupful  of  flour,  then  add  cooked  chocolate,  after  which  add  the  last 
cupful  of  flour.  Bake  in  two  deep  tins  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing 
made  as  follows :  Two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  cold  water ; 
put  in  vessel  on  the  stove  and  boil  until  it  threads.  Have  ready  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  pour  your  cooked  sugar  in 
egg  as  slowly  as  possible. — Mrs.  M.  P.  Carroll,  Apex,  N.  O. 

LITTLE  CHOCOLATE  CAKES 
Two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
water,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
two  eggs,  four  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water, 
one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  together  as 
for  cake  with  batter;  bake  in  patty  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
R.  E.  Brooker,  Switzerland,  Fla. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  with  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  add  a  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour  in  which  two  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder  have  been  sifted,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  well 
together  and  divide  into  two  equal  parts.  To  the  white  or  silver  part 
add  the  well-beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  bake  in  three  layers.  To  the 
yellow  or  gold  part,  add  the  yolk  of  six  eggs  and  bake  in  three  layers. 
Filling :  Dissolve  two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate  in  one- 
third  cupful  of  water,  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  boil  till  the  water 
cooks  out,  then  put  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Put  cake  to- 
gether in  alternate  layers  with  filling  between. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Strick- 
land, Shady  Grove,  Fla. 

HOT  WATER  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 
Two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  yolk  of  one  egg. 
two  squares  of  chocolate,  dissolved  in  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  half  cupful  more  of  boiling  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour, 
and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  in  order  given  and  bake  in  a  square 
loaf  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Cover  with  boiled  frosting, 
using  the  white  of  the  egg  left  from  the  cake  for  the  frosting.  It  is 
rather  unsual  to  have  both  soda  and  baking  powder  as  called  for  in  this 


130 


FAYORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


redpc,  but  it  is  impossible  to  get  light,  spongy  cake  if  a  larger  amount 
of  on«  alone  is  used.— Miss  Marguerite  Seaveb,  Fort  Meade,  Fla. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
milk,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two 
and  a  half  to  three  cupsful  or  flour ;  chocolate  enough  to  color  dark. 
When  cold,  slice  and  line  cups ;  into  the  center  pile  whipped  cream. 
Fresh  fruit  of  some  kind  is  fine. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Hudson,  Bay  Minette,  Ala. 

CHECKERBOARD  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful 
of  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder ;  beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  to  a  cream,  saving  the 
white  of  one  egg  for  icing ;  add  other  ingredients  and  divide  the  batter 
into  two  equal  parts ;  into  one  part  stir  a  tablespoonful  of  melted  choco- 
late, making  it  dark-colored.  Bake  in  three  layers.  In  two  of  the  tins 
put  a  teasponful  of  the  dark  dough  in  the  center,  and  in  the  third  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  light  dough ;  put  four  rows  around,  alternating  first  white 
around  dark,  then  dark  around  white.  Put  the  layer  with  the  white 
center  in  the  middle  of  the  cake,  and  when  it  is  cut,  you  have  a  good  rep- 
resentation of  a  checkerboard. — Loeeanne  Allen,  Gaston,  Ala. 

CHECKERED  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  creamed,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  sifted  with 
three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Divide 
in  two  equal  parts ;  to  one  part  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  molasses, 
one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  powdered  coffee,  one-half  cupful  of  currants,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful of  black  pepper.  Place  in  a  square  pan,  one  strip  light,  one 
dark  cover  dark  with  light,  light  with  dark,  until  pan  is  half  full.  Cut 
crosswise  in  serving. — Miss  Mat  Walker,  Sugar  Valley,  Oa. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
Beat  three  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of 
butter  and  lard,  two  cupsful  of  milk,  flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  sifted 
with  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  spoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake 
in  layers.  Filling :  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  half  cupful  of  milk, 
one  cupful  of  sugar.  Boil  until  it  begins  to  get  thick  ;  set  off,  and  when 
it  begins  to  get  cool,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  beat  a  few  minutes. — -Mrs. 
Flossie  Castle,  New  Mope,  Ala. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
Cream  together  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter ;  to  this 
add  four  eggs,  wel/  beaten,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  heaping  teaspoons- 
ful of  baking  powder  and  four  cupsful  of  flour.  Flavor  to  taste  with 
vanilla  or  nutmeg.  Filling  :  Take  two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar  and 
place  over  fire,  stirring  well  until  hard  and  lumpy.  Let  this  cool  thor- 
oughly, then  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Put  this  in  a  double  boiler 
and  let  it  -cook  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  nutmeg, 
and  spread  between  layers. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Allen,  Lexington,  Texas. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  five  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
milk — half  sweet  and  half  sour — three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder ;  bake  in  layers.   Filling  :  A  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  boil  till  it  thickens, 


CAKES 


131 


add  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla ;  spread,  when  cool,  between  cakes 
and  on  top  and  sides. — Mrs.  F.  R.  Knight,  Peoples,  N.  C. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
• 

Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  with  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar, 
add  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  three  cupsful 
of  flour,  and  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  stiff,  add  flour 
and  water  last,  alternately.  Bake  in  shallow  pan,  cut  in  squares,  and 
ice. — Miss  Sara  Henderson,  Orifpn,  Oa. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  flour,  one  cupful  of  inilk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites 
of  six  eggs.  Caramel :  One  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  lump 
of  butter.  Boil  until  it  thickens.  When  cool  enough  spread  between  lay- 
ers.— Mrs.  Jennie  Cary,  Marshall,  Texas. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
The  yellows  of  five  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  three  cupsful  of 
flour,  one  cupful  of  butter.  Flavor  with  banana.  Filling  :  One  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  one  cupiul  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil 
until  it  will  thread  and  beat  till  cold. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Briscoe,  Haleyville, 
Ala. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  scant  cupful  of  milk,  one 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  cupful  of  corn  starch,  whites  of  seven  eggs, 
three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  in  the  flour ;  a  half  pound  of  brown 
sugar,  scant  quarter  pound  of  chocolate,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla ;  mix  well  and  cook  as  syrup 
until  stiff  enough  to  spread ;  spread  on  the  cake  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
dry. — Nena  Irene  Brandon,  Keener,  Ala. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  whole  eggs  or  the  whites 
of  three,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Caramel  for  cake :  One 
cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk.  Cook  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread  between  and 
on  the  cake.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — MBS.  E.  E.  Heibner,  Yellow  Pine, 
Ala. 

CARAMEL  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  scant  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt, 
enough  flour  to  make  not  very  stiff.  Filling :  One  cupful  of  sugar,  half 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg ;  let  it  boil,  stirring  it  all  the 
time. — Miss  Esie  Joineb,  Pavo,  Ga. 

BURNT  CARAMEL  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
four  eggs,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  layer  filling.  Put  two 
tablespoonsful  of  sugar  in  a  saucepan  and  let  it  melt  and  brown.  Pour 
la  a.  half  cupful  of  boiling  wafer..  Add  two  cupsfu!  of  sugar  and  bci! 
pnft!  h  $syfar&\  at  'springy,  raJfrve  fci&m  t€»VSr»,  a«ff  ad3_vkn£la  j^baat 
»..-„        •  .  '   "£<  ■* 


132 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


until  stiff.  Spread  between  layers  of  the  cake. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Abes 
crombie,  Douglasville,  Go, 

CARAMEL  LAYER  CAKE 
Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating  con- 
stantly, two  cupsful  of  sugar.  Mix  and  sift  three  cupsful  of  pastry 
flour  with  four  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  and  add  the  mixture, 
with  one  cupful  of  milk.  Beat  three  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  four 
eggs  until  stiff  and  add  to  mixture  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, — 
Miss  Maude  Woodward,  Jonesville,  Ya, 

BRIDE'S  CAKE 
Sift  with  six  teacupsful  of  flour  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder. 
Beat  very  light  the  whites  of  two  dozen  eggs  and  cream  four  teacupsful 
of  butter.  Add  to  the  butter  and  sugar  a  portion  of  flour,  using  a  tea- 
cupful  of  milk,  then  a  portion  of  the  egg,  alternating  until  all  is  well 
mixed.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  half. — Mbs.  John 
Snyder,  Athens,  Tenn. 

BRIDE'S  CAKE 
Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  a  half 
cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
and  a  half  teasponful  of  soda.   The  four  yolks  make  a  nice  gold  cake, 
using  same  amount  as  for  white. — Salue  J,  Oarmichael,  Turin, 

WEDDING  CAKE 
Three  pounds  of  flour,  three  pounds  of  butter,  three  pounds  of  sugar,- 
two  dozen  eggs,  three  pounds  of  raisins,  six  pounds  of  currants,  one 
pound  of  citron,  one  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of 
nutmeg,  one-half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-half  pint  of  brandy.  Beat  the  but- 
ter with  your  hand  to  cream,  then  beat  the  sugar  into  the  butter  and  the 
froth  of  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  after  being  well  beaten,  then  the  froth  of 
the  whites ;  mix  fruit,  spice  and  flour  together;  then  add  them  in  with 
beating.  Five  or  six  hours'  baking  will  answer  for  a  large  loaf. — Ruby 
Taylor,  Winnshoro,  La. 

WHITE  CAKE 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons- 
ful of  baking  powder,  whites  of  nine  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  two 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar ;  beat  light, 
put  milk  into  this.  Beat  the  eggs  stiff,  put  in  one  cupful  of  flour  and 
half  the  eggs ;  put  the  baking  powder  in  the  remaining  half  cupful  of 
flour,  stirring  in  last  Beat  well  for  some  minutes  to  make  smooth  cake.. 
—Nabs  Jones,  New  LeaUtgton,  Ala. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter;  mix  well;  seven  eggs 
(whites),  four  cupsful  of  flour,  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter  a  little  egg 
and  a  little  flour  until  all  have  been  added ;  now  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk.  Bake  slowly  for  one  and  a  half  hours. — Leoba  Newton,  Barnes- 
ville,  Ga. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Cream  two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter 
together ;  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  sift  in  three  cupsful  of  flour  with 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  well  mixed,  and  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  eight  eggs.  Flavor  with  extract  *of  lemon  or  orange.  Turn 
into  a  greased  cake  mold  and  bake  for  one  hour.   Ice  when  cold.  BeVe 


CAKES 


133 


in  layers,  if  preferred,  with  caramel  between.  Caramel  filling  No.  1 : 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one-third  cupful  of  boiling 
water.  When  done,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Cream  and  spread  between 
layers.  Caramel  filling  No.  2 :  Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
sweet  milk  or  cream,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  or  piece  size  of  turkey 
egg. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jr.,  Teddy,  Ala. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Nine  eggs  (the  whites  only),  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  fourth 
cupsful  of  butter,  four  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  lemon 
or  rose  water;  bake  moderately. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Brownlee,  Brownlce,  S.  C. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  butter,  two  teacupsful  of  sugar, 
four  teacupsful  of  sifted  flour,  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoonful  of  extract.  Stir  the  butter 
and  sugar  to  a  smooth  cream  and  add  half  the  milk.  Stir  in  the  flour,  a 
cupful  at  a  time,  and  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  with  baking  powder  dis- 
solved in  milk.  Beat  this  smooth,  and  fold  in  the  stiff  whites  Inst.  Put 
the  cake  in  cold  stove  in  which  the  fire  is  just  kindled  and  bake  with 
moderate  heat — Miss  Lula  G.  Holland,  Ninety-Six,  S.  O. 

WHITE  CAF^ 

One  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  five  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
cupful  of  water,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  rose  water.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
until  light,  sift  flour  twice  and  add  the  ingredients  alternate]."".  Bake 
slowly  one  and  a  fourth  hours — Mrs.  L.  H.  Walker,  Madison,  Go. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Cream  together  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter; 
add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour  sifted  with  two  level 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  all  well  and  add  beaten  whites  of 
seven  eggs. — Mrs.  A.  S.  Whitener,  Burton,  Texas. 

WHITE  CAKE 

One  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar, 
whites  of  five  eggs,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  flour,  in  which  sift  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Mix  in  the  usual  way  and  ice  with  any  kind  of  icing  pre- 
ferred.— Miss  Freda  Nearing,  Ohipley,  Fla. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  three  and  a  half  cups- 
ful of  flour,  a  half  cupful  of  corn-starch,  one  cupful  of  lukewarm  water, 
five  whites  of  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Flavor 
to  taste,  cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  water  and  flour,  then  beaten  whites 
of  eggs ;  beat  until  light  before  adding  oaking  powder  and  flavoring.  Fill- 
ing: Boil  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  fourth  cupful  of  water  until  it 
strings  from  spoon,  pour  over  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg ;  beat  vigor- 
ously until  almost  cold.  Flavor  to  taste  and  spread  between  layers  of 
cake. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Wheeler,  Union  Springs,  Ala. 

WHITE  CAKE 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  cupful  of  cream  (or  milk),  two  cupsful  o: 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoons- 
ful of  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar :  add  milk,  then  tbe  fktor , 


134 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


which  has  been  sifted  with  baking  powder  four  times.  Stir  in  the  beaten 
whites  last.  Bake  as  a  loaf  cake. — Miss  Cablie  I.  Walker,  Sugar 
Tree,  Ten. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  butter,  four  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  milk, 
four  scant  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  six  cupsful  of  flour,  whites  of 
twelve  eggs. — Mbs.  Coba  Moobe,  Darden,  Tenn. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 
Six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  three-fourths  cup- 
ful of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
The  yellow  cake  is  the  same  as  white,  only  use  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
milk  and  yolks  of  six  eggs. — Mbs.  J.  H.  McAnn,  Jacksboro,  Texas. 

PERFECTION  WHITE  CAKE 
Three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three 
cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  corn-starch,  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  or  lemon.  Bake  either  in  loaf  or  layers. — Mbs.  A.  J.  Pbater, 
Lake  Charles,  La. 

PLAIN  WHITE  CAKE 
Whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  ; 
flavor  to  suit  taste, — Mbs.  Clint  Simmons,  Star  Hill,  La. 

DELICATE  WHITE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of 
fite  eggs.   Bake  in  layers. — Mbs.  A.  Penn,  Bolton,  Miss. 

DELICATE  WHITE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter  and  three  cupsful  of  white  sugar  well  creamed, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  five  cupsful  of  flour  and  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder  sifted  three  times.  Flavor  to  taste. — Mbs.  C. 
W.  Bubch,  Port  Gibson,  Miss. 

FAVORITE  WHITE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  flour,  whites  of  ten  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mbs.  J.  B.  Jenmson, 
Alexton,  La. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 
One-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
milk,  one  and  two-thirds  cupsful  of  flour,  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder,  vanilla  or  other  flavoring,  After  the  cake 
has  been  well  beaten,  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs  to  stiff  froth 
and  fold  them  in  last  Bake  in  two  oblong  pans  and  when  cool  put  to- 
gether with  boiled  icing,  flavored  with  lemon,  vanilla,  chopped  raisins, 
chocolate,  or  anything  desired— M.  M.  Taylob,  Louisiana. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cupful  cf 
water,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  eight  eggs,  using  whites  only, 
t"3rc  tfi4spoonsfu!  cf  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt  'Flavor  to  taste. 
OboGclal*  filling  :'_C*ne  cupful  of  mil&"T*ut*er  the"  sot*  of  a  w&!mit~  V&az 


CAKES 


milk  slowly  on  tmgar  and  chocolate  while  on  the  fire,  then  add  the  butter 
and  boil  until  thick  enough  to  spread. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Burdick,  Trout,  La. 

PLAIN  WHITE  CAKE 
The  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  flour  before  sifting,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  Rosa  Caugii- 
bax,  Philadelphia,  Miss. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  a 
half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  whites  of 
ten  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff  (or  the  whole  of  five  eggs  if  the  shade  from 
the  yolks  is  no  objection).  Bake  in  three  deep  jelly  tins  or  six  thin  lay- 
ers. If  iced,  take  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  sixteen  tablespoonsful  of 
white  powdered  sugar.  Flavor  to  suit  taste. — Miss  Clara  Schriefer, 
Perry,  La. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  a  half  cupful 
of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  fla- 
vor to  taste. — Miss  Rubie  M.  Corser,  Grand  Saline,  Texas. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  fine  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  sifted  into 
the  flour.  Wash  and  cream  the  butter  until  rather  soft,  beat  the  flour 
into  it,  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time.  Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  the 
sugar  into  them.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  into  the  flour  and  butter,  a 
spoonful  at  a  time-  Beat  into  this  a  half  teacupful  of  cream  and,  lastly, 
beat  the  whole  ten  minutes  by  the  clock.  Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans.  Icing  : 
Whites  of  five  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  with  eight  teaspoonsful  of  powT- 
dered  sugar  to  each  egg,  added  gradually.  Spread  this  between  the  lay- 
ers and  sprinkle  grated  cocoanut  on  top  and  sides. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Addi- 
son, Spider,  La. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two 
scant  cupsful  of  flour.  Beat  eggs  until  very  light,  add  sugar  and  butter, 
beat  well,  then  add  flour  in  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  sifted. 
Bake  from  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour. — Mrs.  Eugene  Hentz,  Po- 
maria,  8.  C. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 
The  whites  of  five  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  till  dry  and  put  in 
last.  This  is  a  most  delicious  cake  if  made  light.  It  is  very  nice  put 
together  with  lemon  filling  or  pink  frosting  made  with  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  a  half  pound  of  pulverized  sugar,  colored  pink,  and  cocoa- 
nut  sprinkled  over  the  top  and  sides,  or  just  plain  frosting. — Amy  E 
Spare,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

SILVER  CAKE 
Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  scant  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  four  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  two-thirds  cupfu!  cf  butter,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  good  baking  powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  sugar  and 
butter  .to  the  lightest  poseibia  area™,  add  the  milk  and  any  flavoring 
i&tf&rfe*}.  tb-^b  a  part  off'tSw  ffcmr,  frefcten  wbrtes  of  eggs,  the' remain  -fei 


136 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  flour.  Bake  in  two  biscuit  pans  (seven  by  fourteen  inches)  lined 
with  paper  on  bottom,  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  and  avoid  looking  often  and 
jarring  the  stove. — Mbs.  C.  J.  Rhodes,  Lincolnton,  N.  C. 

SILVER  CAKE 
Whites  of  ten  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
three-fourths  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder. — Mhs.  J.  Elder,  Oxford,  Ala. 

SILVER  CAKE 
Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  five  cupsful  of  flour,  three  cupsful  of  white 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful 
of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  milk, 
then  flour,  add  the  baking  powder  in  the  fifth  cupful  of  flour.  Flavor  to 
taste. — Mbs.  L.  V.  Lambebth,  Salitpa,  Ala. 

SILVER  CAKE 
Six  eggs  (whites),  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder.  Bake  in  layers  and  take  the  two  whites  and  beat  stiff  for  icing. 
Boil  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water  and  one-third  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar  till  it  threads,  then  pour  on  stiffly  beaten  whites. — 
Mbs.  O.  F.  Rushing,  Montgomery,  Ala* 

YELLOW  CAKE 
Cream  together  two  cupsful  of  sugar  and  two-thirds  cupful  of  but- 
ter, add  beaten  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups- 
ful of  flour  sifted  with  two  level  spoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Batter 
may  be  worked  smooth  with  less  trouble  if  half  of  milk  is  added  last.— 
Mbs.  A.  S.  Whiteneb,  Burton,  Texas. 

YELLOW  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  cream  together  well,  add 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour  and 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  sifted  several  times  together.  Bake 
in  layers.  Use  any  kind  of  filling  desired. — Mbs.  Chas.  Callaham, 
Pisgah,  Ala. 

POUND  CAKE 

One  pound  each  of  sugar,  butter,  flour,  and  ten  eggs.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar,  beat  the  eggs  well,  sift  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
through  the  flour;  add  two  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla ;  add  the  flour  last. 
—Mbs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jb.,  Teddy,  Ala. 

POUND  CAKE 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  mixed  thoroughly,  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  twelve  eggs,  mixed  well.  Now  mix  the  two  parcels 
and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar 
and  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  two 
hours. — Anna  Newton,  Bamesvilte,  Ga. 

POUND  CAKE 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoonsful  of  good 
brandy  or  whiskey.  Separate  eggs,  whip  whites  to  a  very  stiff  frotlf. 
cream  butter,  beat  yolks  until  lemon  color,  add  sugar  and  butter,  beat 
twenty  minutes ;  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  flour  alternately  and 
beat  thirty  minutes.  Add  brandy  just  before  putting  caVe  ic  pan.  Th'e 


CAKES 


1ST 


makes  one  very  large  or  two  medium-sized  cakes.  When  cold,  ice  with 
following  icing:  Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar, 
a  half  cupful  of  water.  Place  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan  and  cook 
until  syrup  will  thread  a  hair.  Pour  over  beaten  whites.  Do  not  beat 
whites  too  much,  as  the  frosting  will  not  be  smooth  if  whites  are  beaten 
very  stiffly  ;  however,  after  syrup  is  added,  the  mixture  should  be  beaten 
until  thick  and  creamy  ;  then  it  is  ready  to  spread  over  the  cake. — Mrs. 
M.  H.  Ovebstbeet,  Attapulgus,  Ga. 

POUND  CAKE 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  ten 
eggs.  Rub  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolk? 
separately,  very  light,  and  add  to  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  flour  &n<i 
bake,  flavoring  to  suit  taste. — Maby  Setzleb,  Renno,  S.  C, 

POUND  CAKE 

One  pound  of  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one 
pound  of  flour ;  flavor  to  suit  taste.  Beat  well  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. — Mrs.  G.  N.  Cloeb,  Falkville,  Ala. 

IMITATION  POUND  CAKE 
One  pound  each  of  sugar  and  flour,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  six 
eggs,  one  teacupful  of  sour  milk,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon,  just  a  sprinkle  of  salt.  Beat  part  of  the  sugar  with 
the  butter,  warm  till  soft,  but  do  not  melt ;  beat  to  a  light  cream.  Beat 
the  egg  yellows  with  the  other  part  of  the  sugar  till  light,  and  then  mix 
butter  and  sugar.  Add  a  little  milk,  then  a  little  of  the  sifted  flour. 
Put  in  a  small  portion  of  the  whites,  and  so  on,  till  done.  Be  sure  and 
add  some  of  the  beaten  whites  last.  Now  put  in  soda,  which  has  been 
melted  in  a  tablespoonful  of  water,  and  flavor.  Beat  hard  for  a  minute, 
or  longer.  Put  in  a  warm  oven.  Let  rise  double  its  size,  and  bake. — 
Mbs.  E.  O.  Fisk,  Cherokee,  S.  C. 

BOSTON  POUND  CAKE 
One  pound  of  sugar,  three-fourths  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  two  grated  lemons.  Mix  well ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
—MBS.  W.  W.  Gbay,  Clanton,  Ala. 

OLD-FASHIONED  POUND  CAKE 
One  pound  each  of  sugar,  butter,  flour,  ten  eggs,  and  a  half  wine- 
glassful  each  of  wine  and  brandy.  Cream  sugar  and  butter  together, 
adding  yolks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  hard  after  each  one  is  added ; 
sift  in  flour,  already  sifted  once  or  twice,  and  add  the  wine  and  brandy ; 
lastly,  add  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  This  may  be  made  successfully 
with  or  without  baking  powder,  adding  two  heaping  teaspoonsful  when 
used.  Beat  hard  and  bake  in  moderate,  steady  oven ;  may  be  left  plain 
or  frosted.  After  cake  is  cooled,  put  away  in  tight  box,  laying  two  or 
three  apples  in  with  it  to  keep  moist,  and  it  will  grow  richer  with  the 
keeping. — Mbs.  A.  S.  Thompson,  Tampa,  Fla. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 
Use  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs,  a  scant  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  a 
large  half  pint  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla.  Sift  the  flour  four  times,  and  then  measure;  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  then  sift  again.  Sift  the  sugar  four  times,  then 
measure-  Beat  the  egg6  to  a  stiff  froth  cn  a  large  dish,  and  on  the  sains 
disb  e<M  the  sugar  quickly  and  lightly.  Add  the  flour  in  tbe  earns  way. 


138 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPEvS 


and  last,  the  vanilla.  Put  at  once  into  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  forty 
minutes  or  more.  Do  not  grease  the  pans.  Turn  upside  down  to  cool, 
putting  small  blocks  of  wood  under  the  edges  so  that  air  may  reach  the 
cake. — Miss  Daisy  Bell  McMahan,  Lotcndesville,  S.  C. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 
Whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  very  stiffly,  a  pinch  of  salt,  three-fourths 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cream  of 
tartar.    Flavor  with  lemon  to  taste. — Mes.  Rosa  Caughban,  Phila- 
delphia, Miss. 

ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 
Beat  the  whites  of  eleven  eggs  until  very  stiff,  add  one  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  sugar ;  next  gradually  add  one  cupful  of  flour,  to  which  has 
been  sifted  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  (sift  flour  five  times)  ; 
flavor.  Bake  in  an  ungreased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  min- 
utes.— Mes.  F.  M.  Davexpoet,  Valley  Head,  Ala. 

BLACK  ANGEL  CAKE 
Beat  up  one  egg,  add  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-third  cake  of  choco- 
late, and  a  half  cupful  of  milk ;  cool  until  quite  thick.  Let  cool  while 
making  cake  part.  Cake  part :  One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
butter,  two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cupsful  of  flour;  put  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  milk  (do  not  use 
any  cream  of  tartar).  Add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  mix  well  and 
add  the  chocolate  mixture,  then  beat  well  and  bake  in  two  layers  and 
put  together  with  white  frosting. — Mes.  W.  R.  Pabkee,  Woodruff,  S.  C. 

marble  CAKE 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder.  Flavor  to  taste.  Dark  part :  Yolks  of  seven  eggs,  three  and  a 
half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses, 
a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  half  cupful  of 
butter.  Flavor  with  nutmeg,  spice,  cloves  and  cinnamon. — Mes.  L.  V. 
Lambebth,  Salitpa,  Ala. 

MARBLE  CAKE 
White  part :  One  cupful  of  white  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a 
half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two  and  a  half  scant  cupsful  of  flour. 
Dark  part :  One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  in  which 
dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
mace,  three-fourths  of  a  nutmeg,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour.  Bake 
three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  takes  two  to  mix  and 
put  in  the  pan  alternately ;  put  it  in  a  larger  cake  pan,  with  a  buttered 
paper.   Use  kind  of  icing  you  wish. — Mbs.  Amos  Pabkeb,  Ozark,  Ala.  . 

WHITE  MARBLE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  creamed  together,  on? 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  eight  eggs  (whites)  beaten 
very  stiff,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder  with  a  little  flour ;  sift  flour  twice ;  lastly,  stir  in  the 
whites  of  eggs.  Then  in  a  small  bowl  dip  out  about  one  cupful  of  the 
barter,  add  a  fgw  drops  of  real  fruit  coloring  to  irake  a  delicate-  pink. 
Put  batter  in  pan  with  a  spoonful  of  pink  batter  dropped  in  at  a  time  to 
xarbie  the  c&ke.  Bake  in  larga  deep  caka  - pan.  Icing  for  ca&a:  T^-c 
cspand  -di  -iktfgkp,  jfat  to-tbfe  -Acta*  febles^c'-^nsPttl  -erf' («fr  b»l> 


TAKES 


slowly  until  waxy  and  stringy.  Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff.  Pour 
the  hot  syrup  slowly  over  eggs,  at  the  same  time  beating  to  a  stiff  cream. 
Dust  the  cake  with  fiour  and  apply  the  icing. — Mrs.  J.  L.  Sinclair, 
Tyler,  Ala. 

LEMON  CREAM  CAKE 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  three- 
fourths  cupful  of  water,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  raisins. 
Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  filling.  Filling :  Add  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemou  to  a  cupful  of  water  and  put  on  the  stove  to 
boil.  While  waiting  to  boil,  mix  five  tablespoonsful  of  sifted  flour  with 
one-third  cupful  of  water  and  add  to  this  one  and  a  fourth  cupsful  of 
sugar,  then  pour  the  mixture  slowly  into  the  boiling  water  and  lemon, 
and  stir  constantly  until  desired  thickness.  When  done,  pour  into  bowl 
to  cool,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory- 
nut. — Maggie  Robinson,  Melrose,  Flo. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE 
For  the  cake  :  Four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter, 
a  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons- 
ful  of  bakiug  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  flavoring.  Cook  in  lay- 
ers. For  the  jelly  :  Cream  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lem- 
ons ;  cook  slowly  in  a  granite  pan  until  it  thickens.  Spread  between 
layers  of  cake. — Mrs.  T.  S.  Booth,  Naftel,  Ala. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE 
Cream  one  cupful  of  sugar  with  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  milk  and  two  cupsful  of 
flour  into  which  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  have  been 
sifted.  Bake  in  jelly  tins  and  put  together  with  the  following  filling : 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  and  add  juice  of  one  lemon,  also  a  half 
cupful  of  water.  Cook  until  thick  enough  to  spread  between  layers. — 
Mrs.  L.  E.  Weathers,  Celeste,  Texas. 

LEMON  CHEESE  CAKE 
Take  four  eggs,  separate  and  beat  the  whites  very  light.  To  the  yolks 
add  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  and  beat  light,  then  add  whites  and  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  sift 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  to  a  quart  of  flour ;  add  enough  of 
this  to  make  a  soft  dough,  not  too  stiff.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling  :  Take 
three  eggs,  separate  and  reserve  white  for  frosting.  Take  the  yolks  and 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cupful  of  warm  water  with  two  teaspoonsful 
of  corn  starch.  Stir  all  together.  Put  on  stove  in  double  boiler  and  cook 
till  thick. — MRS.  W.  E.  Dorsey,  Mt.  Vernon,  Ga. 

CHEESE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  the  yellow  of  six  eggs,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  dissolved  in  milk. — Mrs. 
Mart  Bristes,  Coles,  Miss. 

RAISIN  CAKE 

Beat  four  eggs  (whites  and  yolks)  separately,  add  two  teacupsful  of 
sugar,  one  of  butter  and  one  of  sweet  milk,  and  beat  all  together  well. 
Put  in  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one  grated  cocoanut,  and  flavor  with 
one  grated  nutmeg  and  one  grated  orange  peel.  Measure  three  scant 
teacupsful  of  flour  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of 


/ 


140 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


tartar.  Sift  into  the  batter,  mis  well,  and  bake  fifty  minotes  in  moder- 
ately hot  oven.— Mbs.  D.  H.  Rust,  Pelican,  La. 

RAISIN  LAYER  CAKE 
Cream  one  and  a  fourth  cupsful  of  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs, 
a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  two  cupsful  of 
flour,  the  well-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoons- 
ful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling:  One  cupful  of  sugar 
and  a  fourth  cupful  of  water,  boiled  until  it  can  be  blown  from  a  fork  in 
feathers.  Pour  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  beat  until 
cold.  Add  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  spread  between  lay- 
ers. Take  out  a  little  of  the  frosting  before  the  raisins  are  stirred  in  to 
spread  on  top.  Mark  in  squares  and  put  a  whole  seeded  raisin  in  each 
square. — Mbs.  J.  J.  Hoobleb,  Tovmley,  Ala. 

SPICED  RAISIN  CAKE 
One  scant  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of 
molasses,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  three  eggs,  four  cupsful  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  grated  nutmeg.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven. 
— Mbs.  Cabbie  Bonds.  Blevins,  Ark. 

ORANGE  CAKE 
One-fourth  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth 
cupful  of  milk,  four  eggs  (yolks),  seven-eighths  cupful  of  flour,  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream 
the  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar,  then  the  egg  yolks  and  the  extract 
The  eggs  should  be  beaten  until  light-colored.  Mix  and  sift  the  dry  in- 
gredients, add  alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  in  a 
narrow,  deep  cake  pan.  Filling :  Take  the  white  of  one  egg,  beat  to  a 
froth,  add  a  little  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  orange.  Beat  all  together 
and  spread  between  the  layers  of  an  orange  cake. — Mbs.  D.  W.  Spig- 
eneb,  Equality,  Ala. 

PECAN  LAYER  CAKE 
To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  add  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar, 
three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  flour,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  well  beaten ;  bake  in  five  loaves  in  jelly  cake  pans.  For  frosting, 
beat  whites  of  three  eggs,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  and  one 
and  three-fourths  cupsful  of  sugar ;  to  the  frosting  add  two  teacupsfui 
of  pecan  meat ;  put  between  layers  and  on  top  of  layers  when  cold.  One 
grated  cocoanut  added  to  the  frosting  instead  of  pecans  makes  a  cocoanut 
cake. — Mbs.  W.  G.  Hebbington,  Hermanville,  Miss.  ~ 

PERSIMMON  CAKE 
Strain  two  cupsful  of  persimmons  through  a  3ieve  and  set  aside.  For 
the  batter,  use  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  four  eggs  (beaten 
separately),  one  cupful  of  milk,  a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  of  cream  of 
tartar,  three  cupsful  of  flour.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling :  Beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  until  quite  stiff  and  then  stir  in  two  cupsful  of  granulated 
sugar.  Set  the  pan  in  another  containing  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
smooth  like  icing,  stirring  constantly.  When  done,  remove  from  the  fire 
and  add  the  strained  persimmons,  then  put  between  the  layers  of  cake 
and  on  top,  and  you  have  an  unusual  and  delicious  cake. — Miss  A. 
Jones,  Eatonton,  Oa. 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  baking  powder, 


CAKES 


141 


whites  of  five  eggs;  bake  in  layers.  Filling:  Cook  a  pint  can  of  pine- 
apple, or  a  whole  pineapple  after  paring,  to  a  thick  marmalade  ;  sweeten 
to  suit  taste  and  spread  between  the  layers. — Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  An- 
tret^iUe.  S.  C. 

SEA  ISLAND  FIG  CAKE 
Silver  part :  Two  cupsfal  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  two- 
thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder  thoroughly  sifted  with  three  cupsrul  of  flour;  stir  sugar 
and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk  and  flour  aud  last,  whites  of  eggs.  Bake 
this  in  two  long  or  square  pie  tins.  Gold  part :  One  cupful  of  sugar, 
three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a 
half  teaspoonsful  of  bakiug  powder,  sifted  into  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  flour,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  thoroughly  beaten,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  allspice  and  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  or  until  you  can 
taste.  Now,  put  one-half  of  this  gold  batter  in  a  pie  tin  (same  size  as 
the  one  you  baked  the  white  in)  and  lay  on  halved  figs  (previously  sifted 
with  flour),  so  that  they  will  just  touch  each  other;  put  on  the  rest  of 
gold  batter  and  bake.  Put  the  three  cakes  together  with  boiled  icing, 
the  gold  between  the  white,  cover  with  frosting,  decorate  top  with  can- 
died figs,  English  walnuts  or  any  desired  decorations.  White  seasoning 
should  be  used  in  the  white  part,  rose  water,  lemon  or  almond.  Instead 
of  pressed  figs,  preserved  figs  can  be  used,  if  previously  dried  a  few  min- 
utes in  oven. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Brown.  Hilton  Head.  8.  C. 

DATE  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  nurmeg.  three  cupsful 
of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  saleratus,  one  pound  of  dates, 
cut  small.  Bake  in  loaf,  and  ice. — Miss  Laure  Pickett.  Fitzpatrick, 
Ala. 

BLACKBERRY  CAKE 
Cream  one  cupful  of  sugar  with  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  crushed  canned  blackberries,  strained  through 
a  sifter,  and  four  tablespoonsful  of  juice.  Into  this  put  one  and  two- 
thirds  cupsful  of  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  mixed  spices,  cloves  and  cinnamon. — Miss  Laura 
Ward.  Edwards,  Miss. 

PLUM  CAKE 

Cream  one-third  cupful  of  butter  with  a  cupful  of  light  brown  sugar, 
add  three-fourths  cupful  of  sour  milk  in  which  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
soda  has  been  stirred,  also  a  half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon, 
nutmeg  and  allspice,  a  half  cupful  of  raisins,  dredged  with  flour,  and  two 
heaping  cupsful  of  flour  to  which  a  pinch  of  baking  powder  has  been 
added.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  cake  requires 
no  eggs,  but  is  excellent. — Mrs.  Frank  Koop.  Vanderbilt,  Texas. 

ORANGE  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
five  eggs  (leaving  out  two  whites)  ;  bake  in  jelly  pans.  Frosting  :  Two 
whites  of  eggs  and  two  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  juice  and  pulp  of  two 
oranges;  grate  peel  into  the  dough. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Addison.  Spider,  La. 

ORANGE  CREAM  CAKE 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two-thirds 
capful  of  sweet  milk  ;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten. 


142 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  then  add  the  milk  Bake  in  three  lay- 
er-pans in  rather  quick  oven.  Filling :  Mix  together  a  half  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  egg,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  the  grated  rind  of  half  an  orange,  juice  of  a  half  orange,  and  a 
half  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly, 
then  cook  in  a  double  boiler. — Mbs.  L.  B.  Robebts,  Magnolia,  Miss. 

APPLE  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  allspice,  one  cupful  of  boiled  apples,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  and  three-fourths  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  rais- 
ins, one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  cloves  to  taste. — 
Mbs,.  J.  N.  Potteb,  Billiard,  Fla. 

DRIED  APPLE  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  dried  apples  soaked  over  night.  In  the  morning,  steam 
until  soft,  then  put  into  them  a  cupful  of  molasses  and  simmer  slowly 
until  cooked.  When  cool,  add  one  egg,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half 
cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar ; 
add  spices  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven. — Mbs.  W. 
R.  Pabkeb,  Woodruff,  8.  C. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  unsweetened  stewed  apples,  green  or  dried, 
four  teaspoonsful  of  soda  in  apples,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths 
cupful  of  butter,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  raisins,  one  table- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  nut- 
meg, one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt — Maggie  Robinson,  Melrose,  Fla. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cupful  of  shorten- 
ing, one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  apple  sauce,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonsful  of  hot  water,  three  cups- 
ful of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  salt,  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
ginger.  Raisins  if  desired. — Mbs.  J.  G.  Williams,  Whitehovse,  Fla. 

APPLE  CAKE  FILLING 

Take  evaporated  apples  and  cook  till  you  can  mash  them  well,  flavor 
and  sweeten  with  anything  you  like,  spread  between  the  cake,  as  you 
would  jelly,  only  use  more. — Mbs.  Lena  Bbyan,  Osyka,  Mi$3. 

BANANA  CAKE 

A  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  two 
scant  cupsful  of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Cream  but- 
ter, sugar  and  beaten  white  of  two  eggs.  Bake  in  layers.  Mash  bananas 
and  put  in  between.  Frosting  :  Break  the  whites  of  two  eggs  in  a  bowl, 
add  sugar  and  beat  until  light  and  spread  on  cake  when  hot. — Mbs,  E. 
Thompson,  Bayou  Chicot,  La. 

BANANA  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
three  cupsful  of  flour,  five  eggs  (whites),  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder.  This  makes  three  large  layers.  Filling  for  cakes :  Boil  one 
cupful  of  sugar  and  one-third  cupful  of  water  until  it  can  be  blown  from 
a  fork  in  feathers.   Pour  over  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  beat 


CAKES 


14? 


until  cold  Peel  your  bananas  and  rub  through  a  sieve,  stir  into  the 
Icing  and  spread  between  layers. — Miss  Sula  Smith,  McDade,  Texas. 

LIGHTHOUSE  CAKE 
Four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff ;  put 
in  sugar.  Beat  yolks  and  add  vinegar  to  them.  Now  beat  all  together 
and  carefully  fold  in  the  flour.  Bake  slowly  in  ungreased  pan.  Do  not 
add  anything  to  tbe  above ;  no  soda  nor  baking  powder. — Mrs.  Kellab 
Maxwell,  St.  Petersburg,  Fla. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  CAKE 
Light  part :  Two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  one  table6poonful  of  baking 
powder.  Whites  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  well,  a  half  cupful  of  almonds. 
Hull  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  peel  off  brown  hull.  Cook 
in  four  layers.  Dark  part:  Eight  eggs  (yolks),  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
tablespoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice,  cloves,  cinna- 
mon, ginger,  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  seedless  raisins,  cut  fine  and  flour 
well.  Cook  in  four  layers.  Filling  :  Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  cooked  with 
a  half  cupful  of  water,  until  it  threads,  whites  of  five  eggs,  beaten  well, 
one  package  of  cocoanut ;  grate  rind  and  juice  of  two  lemons.  Let  all 
500k  a  few  minutes,  set  to  cool.  Place  a  light  layer  and  then  dark  layer. 
-Maude  Barker,  Davilla,  Texas. 

YELLOW  NUT  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  eight  eggs, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon  or  other  extract,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  flour,  milk  and  extract.  Then  beat  well.  Beat  the  whites  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  fold  into  the  cake  batter  as  gently  as  possible.  Sift 
flour  twice.  Bake  in  three  good-sized  pans.  Use  yolks  for  filling.  Nut 
filling :  Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  eight  yolks.  Cook 
sugar  and  water  till  it  threads,  beat  the  yolks  well  and  pour  the  candy 
in  the  yolks,  stirring  fast  while  pouring.  Then  add  two  cupsful  of  nut 
meats.  Spread  between  layers  and  on  top. — Miss  Annie  Reid,  Lake 
Charles,  La. 

NUT  CAKE 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  eggs, 
two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  English  walnuts.  Rub  the 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  light  cream.  Add  the  eggs,  beaten  a  little,  then 
the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder.  Mix  with  the  milk  and  chopped 
nuts  into  a  rather  firm  batter,  and  bake  in  a  paper-lined  tin  in  a  steady 
oven  thirty-five  minutes. — A[rs.  S.  E.  Mansell,  Sydney,  Fla. 

NUT  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ; 
flavor  to  suit  taste.  Filling :  One  cupful  of  pecans  ;  roll  very  fine,  then 
add  to  the  icing  two  cupsful  of  sugar ;  a  half  cupful  of  water.  Boil 
until  it  threads,  then  add  the  whites  of  three  well-beaten  eggs.  Can  use 
grated  cocoanut  instead  of  pecans. — Mrs.  A.  Penn,  Bolton,  Miss. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  LAYER  CAKE 
Beat  three  eggs,  add  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  gweet  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour  sifted  with  two 


144 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


level  spoonsful  of  bak 
pound  of  seeded  raisin 
one  nutmeg.    Bake  in 

ter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
between  layers,  togeth 
NEB,  Burton,  Texas. 


.    When  all  are  well  beaten,  add  one 

re  package  of  shredded  cocoanut,  and 
l  Put  together  with  caramel  made  as 
)f  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  but- 
-  thick,  and  when  cold  enough,  spread 


LADY  BALTIMORE  CAHE 
Cream  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar  with  a  half  pound  of  butter. 
Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  six  eggs,  stir  in  the  yolks,  beating  after 
each  other.  Add  one  pound  of  flour,  sifted  with  four  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  last,  the  stiffly -beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Divide  into  four  equal  parts  for  layer  cake,  using  filling  as 
one  chooses.  If  brown  sugar  is  used,  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut. — Mes.  O.  J.  Rhyne.  Delias.  A.  G. 


LADY.  BAI/ 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cui 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  wh 
baking  powder;  flavor  with  vani 
Billing  :  Dissolve  three  cupsful  o 
boil  until  it  threads,  and  pour  ove; 
and  add  one  cupful  of  raisins,  one 
Chop  all  together  and  spread  betv 
son,  Delta,  La. 

T,  \  T) V  ¥5  ATj 

Cream  one  cupful  of  butter,  t 
ually,  while  bearing  constantly. 
When  verv  creamy,  add  one  enpfi 
half  cupsful  of  pastry  flour,  mixe 
baking  powder.  Then  add  one  te; 
the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beaten  stiff 
floured  shallow  square  cake  tins, 
lowing :  Put  three  cupsful  of  su^ 
pan,  heat  gradually  to  the  boilinf 
syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  i 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  beatir 
beating  until  mixture  is  of  right 
cupful  of  chopped  seeded  raisins.  < 
five  figs,  cut  in  thin  strips. — MES. 


FIMORE  CAKE 

psful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
ites  of  eight  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
ilia  or  rose-water  and  bake  in  layers, 
f  sugar  with  one  cupful  of  water  and 
l*  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs 
cupfui  of  figs  and  one  cupful  of  pecans, 
"eeu  the  layers. — Mes.  J.  S.  Rickabd- 

;sing  a  wooden  spoon,  then  add,  grad- 
rwo  cupsful  of  fine  granulated  sugar. 
il  of  milk  alternately  with  three  and  a 
d  and  sifted  with  two  teaspoonsful  of 
aspoonful  of  vanilla  or  rose  water  and 
I  and  dry.   Bake  in  three  buttered  and 

and  put  between  and  on  top  the  fol- 
iar and  one  cupful  of  water  in  sauce- 
;  point  and  boil  without  stirring  until 
:rom  spoon.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on 
ig  the  mixture  constantly  and  continue 
consistency  to  spread.  Then  add  one 
me  cupful  of  chopped  pecan  meats  and 

Staeks  Willis,  Graysport,  Miss. 


A  half  ( 
eggs,  two  a 
one  and  a  h 
low  part: 


DY  WASHINGTON  CAKE 
itter.  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight 
:upsful  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour, 
asful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  Yel- 
1  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 


sweet  milk,  y^Iks  of  eight  eggs,  three  and  a  he  If  ci 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Brown  part :  Bake 
ture  and  add  three-fourths  cupful  of  grated  ch 
Caey,  Marshall,  Texas. 


sfol  of  flour,  two  tea- 
ilf  of  the  above  mix- 
date. — Mbs.  Jennie 


LADY  W^ 
Silver  part :  A  half  cupfu 
whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  and  e 
of  baking  powder  :  flavor  with 
ter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  < 
three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  fic  m 


1HINGTON 


and 


CAKE 

lalf  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
f  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful 
part :  One  cupful  of  but- 
milk.  yolks  of  eight  eggs, 
consful  of  baking  powder. 


Brown  part :  A  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 


CAKES 


145 


*weet  milk,  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  three  fourths  cupful  of  chocolate. — 
Mary  Hagar,  Bear,  La. 

MARTHA  WASHINGTON  CAKE 
Take  one  egg,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  molasses,  two- 
thirds  cupful  of  cold  water,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  heapiug  teaspoon- 
ful of  ginger,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  level  teaspoonful 
of  cloves.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling :  One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  five  tablespoonsful  of  hot  water,  whites  of  two  eggs,  ono  cup- 
ful of  raisins,  four  marshmallows ;  boil  sugar,  water  and  marshmallows 
together  until  the  mixture  hardens  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Re- 
move crystals  from  the  side  of  pan  with  a  damp  cloth ;  then  pour  over 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites  and  beat  until  nearly  ready  to  put  on  cake,  then 
add  the  raisins  and  vanilla. — Mrs.  Q.  M.  Shockley,  Gainesville,  Texas. 

WHITE  LILY  CAKE 
Cream  together  a  half  cupful  of  butter  and  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  next  three  cupsful  of  flour  into  which  two 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  have  been  sifted,  and  then  put  in  the 
whites  of  seven  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Flavor  with  lemon  and  bake  in  lay- 
ers. Filling :  Put  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  water  in  a 
saucepan  and  boil  till  it  threads  when  poured  from  a  spoon.  Pour  this 
over  the  beaten  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  Flavor  with 
lemon  and  spread  between  layers  when  milk-warm. — Mrs.  W.  P.  Strick- 
land, Shady  Grove,  Fla. 

LORD  BALTIMORE  CAKE 
Two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of 
flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful 
of  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  and 
two  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla.  Filling:  Add  to  a  boiled  frosting  (when 
ready  to  spread  between  layers)  a  half  cupful  of  macaroon  powder 
(dried  in  the  stove  and  rolled),  one-fourth  cupful  of  chopped  almonds, 
one-fourth  cupful  of  chopped  pecans,  twelve  candied  cherries,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon  extract,  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonsful of  vanilla,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract.  Cover  the 
cake  with  frosting  and  garnish  with  half  cherries  and  half  pecans. — 
Mrs.  J.  S.  Richardson,  Delta,  La. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE 
One-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  a  half 
cupful  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder. — Mrs.  Nellie  Fuller. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE 

Cream  four  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  add  gradually  two-thirds  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  one  well-beaten  egg,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one  and  a 
half  cupsful  of  flour  in  which  have  been  sifted  two  and  a  half  teaspoons- 
ful of  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  a  larger  cake  is  de- 
sired, double  the  recipe. — Mrs.  S.  L.  Culver,  Deatsville,  A  la. 

ONE-EGG  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  egg,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  sifted  with  two  cupsful  of  flour ;  flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in 
loaf  or  layers.    If  baked  in  layers,  here  is  a  fine  icing :  One  cupful  of 


146 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


powdered  sugar  with  enough  milk  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Flavor  to  taste. 
If  chocolate  flavoring  is  used,  melt  the  chocolate  first— Mas.  Abthub 
Smjthebs,  Bunnell,  Flo, 

MOLASSES  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  molasses,  three-fourths  cupful  of  sour  milk,  three  cupsful  of 
flour.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  molasses,  burter  and  milk,  then  the  flour ; 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Flavor  with  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  allspice.  Bake  in  a  loaf.  Also  nice  used  as  a  layer 
cake  put  together  with  icing. — Miss  Lauba  Wabd,  Edwards,  Miss. 

MOLASSES  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  ginger  and 
cinnamon,  or  all  kinds  of  spices,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  soda  in  one 
cupful  of  hot  water,  two  eggs,  three  cupsful  of  flour.  Bake  in  square 
or  round  tins  or  pans.  Leave  plain  or  frost ;  also  add  cocoanut  to  frost- 
ing if  desired. — Amy  E.  Spabe,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

MOLASSES  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  lard, 
a  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of 
■pice,  and  add  two  well-beaten  eggs. — Mbs.  Abthub  Dennoss,  Plain 
Dealing,  La. 

MOLASSES  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  molasses  or  syrup,  one  egg,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
flour,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk  or 
water,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  spoonful  of  ginger.  Bake 
this  slowly. — MB3.  E.  W.  DeMedicis,  Eden,  Ala. 

FAVORITE  PLAIN  CAKE 
Take  six  eggs,  beat  whites  separately,  one  pound  of  granulated  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  adding  the 
yolks  of  eggs  until  smooth,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  sift  with 
one  pound  of  flour.  Mix  this  in  by  adding  one  cupful  of  rich  sweet  milk, 
then,  last,  add  the  whites  of  eggs,  stir  until  smooth,  flavor  to  taste ;  bake 
slowly.  Icing :  One  cupful  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoonsful  of  boiling 
water ;  cook  until  it  ropes,  have  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten,  pour  on 
the  boiling  sugar  slowly,  beating  it  all  the  time  until  white  and  cool. 
You  will  have  enough  to  ice  your  cake  nicely. — Mbs.  W.  Tubnxpseed, 
Blythewood,  8.  C. 

PLAIN  CAKE 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of 
sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. — Mbs. 
A.  Lewis,  Hazlehurst,  Miss. 

PLAIN  CAKE 

Six  eggs,  leaving  out  whites  of  three,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  cupful 
of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  flavoring,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour.  Bear 
the  three  whites,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring, 
and  spread  on  the  cake.   Bake  in  six  layers, — Mbs.  J.  W.  Fowleb. 

PLAIN  CAKE 

Six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 


CAKES 


147 


flavoring  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  separately,  cream  butter  and  sugar  to- 
gether, add  the  yellows,  then  milk,  then  two  cupsful  of  flour,  whites,  and 
the  other  two  cupsful  of  flour,  baking  powder  and  flavoring.  Bake 
either  in  loaf  or  layer,  put  together  with  any  kind  of  jelly. — Mbs.  Bo. 
Richardson,  Tenaha.  Texas. 

GINGER  CAKES 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  butter 
and  lard  mixed,  two  eggs,  oue  cupful  of  buttermilk,  three  cupsful  of 
flour,  one  rounding  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der. Mix  and  bake.  Can  be  baked  in  a  loaf  or  in  muffin  tins,  or  layers 
and  put  together  with  jelly. — Mbs.  L.  O.  Browne.  Tuscaloosa,  Ala, 

GINGER  CAKES 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  shorten- 
ing, a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  grated  ginger,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  half  tea- 
poonful  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  very  thin, 
out  in  small  round  cakes  and  bake  slowly  until  nicely  browned.  Make 
icing  by  boiling  slowly  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  four  tablespoonsful  of 
water  until  it  spins  a  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon,  pour  it  over 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  beat  it  until  it  begins  to  harden ; 
flavor  with  lemon  extract  Drop  a  spoonful  of  the  icing  in  the  center  of 
each  cake. — Mrs.  R.  B.  England,  Rocky  Face,  Qa. 

GINGER  CAKES 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
soda,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  three  eggs,  butter  or  lard  the  size  of 
an  egg,  enough  flour  to  make  a  smooth  dough. — Mbs.  W.  N.  Cummins, 
Felix,  Ala. 

GINGER  CAKES 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  half  cupful  of  butter- 
milk, lard  the  size  of  a  walnut,  three  eggs,  make  a  stiff  dough  and  bake, 
— Miss  Sara  Hendebson,  Griffin,  Oa. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Eight  eggs  (yolks),  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
flour,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  loaf. — Mbs.  O.  F.  Rushing, 
Montgomery,  Ala. 

GOLD  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  creamed  to- 
gether, yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  beaten  well,  three  cupsful  of  sifted  flour, 
three-fourths  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tea- 
•poonsful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Miss  Sue  B.  Som- 
kbville,  Aliceville,  Ala. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
yolks  of  eight  eggs. — Mrs.  Cora  Moore,  Darden,  Tenn. 

GOLD  CAKE 

After  beating  to  a  cream  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  butter  and  two 
cupsful  of  white  sugar,  stir  in  the  well-whipped  yolks  of  one  dozen  eggs 
and  pour  in  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder :  fla- 


148 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


vor  with  lemon.  Line  the  pans  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  one  hour. — Miss  Nellie  Rumley,  El  Campot  Texas. 

GOLD  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  nutmeg,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  yolks  of  six  eggs. — Mbs.  Annie 
McDonald,  Dry  Creek,  N.  C. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Five  cupsful  of  flour,  yolks  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cupsful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Flavor  with  strawberry  or  pineapple. — Mbs.  L.  V.  Lam- 
beeth,  Salitpa,  Ala. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Take  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  to  a 
cream  with  the  sugar  and  one  small  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  three  cupsful  of 
flour ;  flavor  to  suit  taste  and  bake  until  done  in  a  slow  oven. — Miss 
May  Walker,  Sugar  Valley,  Ga. 

GOLD  CAKE 

The  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful 
of  flour,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  three-fourths  cupsful  of  sweet  milk, 
one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Flavor  to  taste. — Mbs. 
J.  Eldeb,  Oxford,  Ga. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Rub  to  a  cream  half  cupful  of  shortening  and  three-fourths  cupful  of 
sugar,  then  add  slowly  two  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  and  a  small  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  ;  sift  in  a  heaping  cupful  of  flour.  Flavor  with  va- 
nilla.— Mbs.  J.  S.  Bbiscoe,  Haleyville,  Ala. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Yolks  of  ten  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  yolks  to  stiff  froth,  add  flour, 
stir  very  hard ;  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour. — Mbs. 
John  Snydeb,  Athens,  Tenn. 

GOLD  CAKE 

One-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  four  egg! 
beaten  light,  one  cupful  of  flour  less  two  tablespoonsful,  two  level  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder,  one-fourth  cupful  of  milk,  grated  rind  of 
one  orange,  or  extract  of  orange ;  cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  the 
yolks,  orange  rind  and  milk ;  then  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  pow- 
der, three  times.  Bake  in  a  tube-pan  about  thirty  minutes.  Cover  with 
cocoanut  frosting.  If  a  larger  cake  is  desired,  the  amount  can  be  dou- 
bled.— Mrs.  Lucile  Davis,  Bonweir,  Texas. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE 
This  recipe  will  use  up  in  the  two  cakes  both  the  yolks  and  whites  of 
the  eggs  and  do  away  with  wasting  any.  For  the  silver  cake,  cream  one- 
fourth  cupful  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  white  sugar  and  one-eighth 
cupful  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder,  and  flavor  with  vanilla  extract.  Add  the  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs.  For  the  gold  cake,  cream  a  half  cup  of  butter  with 
one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of 


CAKES 


149 


milk  and  two  cupsful  of  flour  sifted  with  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla  extract. — Miss  Ida  Tidwell, 
Onconta,  Ala. 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE 
Silver  part:  Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  a  half 
cupful  of  butter,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  flour, 
two  tenspoonsful  of  baking  powder;  flavor  to  taste.  Gold  part:  Same 
as  above,  using  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  aud  one  whole  egg. — Mrs.  Jennie 
Caby,  Marshall,  Texas, 

GOLD  AND  SILVER  CAKE 
Silver  part :  Two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Gold  part :  One 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  ;  flavor  with  vanilla. — MB3.  A.  J.  Kohn, 
Wade,  Fla. 

CUP  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  creamed,  three  cupsful 
of  flour,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  spoonful  of 
baking  powder.  This  makes  good  cakes  for  lunches,  baked  in  muffin 
rings,  then  iced. — Mbs.  R.  E.  McMutbay,  Midnight,  Miss. 

CUP  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  balling  powder,  one  cupful  of  milk,  four  eggs ;  cream 
the  butter  and  add  the  sugar.  After  it  has  been  sifted,  add  the  baking 
powder  to  the  flour,  and  sift  together  several  times.  Mix  the  ingredients, 
adding  the  milk  and  well-beaten  eggs,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Flavor  to 
taste  with  vanilla,  or  lemon,  and  bake  in  cups  or  muffin  rings,  or  if  pre- 
ferred, in  loaf  or  layer. — Nettie  Boyd,  Flowery  Branch,  Ga. 

CUP  CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  butter, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  two  and  a  naif  cupsful  of 
flour. — Miss  Ethel  Pate,  Ashville,  Ala. 

CUP  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
three  cupsful  of  flour,  a  half  cupful  of  corn-starch,  four  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon. — Mbs.  W.  A. 
Weight,  Varnell  Station,  Ga. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  figs,  one  pound  of  shelled  nuts, 
a  half  pound  of  citron,  one  cupful  of  jam,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one 
pint  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  ten  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in 
molasses,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  spice  and  nutmeg.  Cream 
sugar  and  butter  and  add  the  beaten  eggs.  Flour  the  fruit  and  add  last. 
It  will  be  stiff  enough  with  the  fruit  well  floured.  Bake  three  and  a 
half  hours. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Barwick,  Pace,  Miss. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of 
flour,  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  currants, 
one  pound  of  citron.   Cut  in  small  pieces  two  r.nblespoonsful  of  ground 


m 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  mace,  two 
nutmegs,  one  tumblerful  of  brandy  or  wine,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.   Bake  slowly.— Mbs.  J.  W.  Hawkins,  Crawford,  Oa. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One  pound  of  raisins,  a  half  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  currants, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon,  wineglassful  of  brandy, 
two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of 
buttermilk,  two  cupsful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  cupsful 
of  flour,  six  eggs.  Bake  this  about  one  month  before  you  expect  to  use 
it — Mks.  W.  P.  Howell,  ilendenhall,  Miss. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One  pound  each  of  butter,  brown  sugar,  and  flour,  one  tablespoonful 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  vanilla 
and  lemon,  two  coffee  cupsful  each  of  seeded  raisins,  currants,  chopped 
figs  and  thinly-sliced  citron,  one  coffee  cupful  each  of  molasses,  chopped 
pecans  and  blanched  almonds  (chopped),  one  gill  of  cider,  or  black  cof- 
fee, ten  eggs,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  beat  whites  and  yolks  of 
eggs  separately,  cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  yolks  and  flour.  When 
the  batter  is  smooth,  add  whites  of  eggs,  then  spices,  then  molasses,  then 
cider  or  black  coffee  and  flavoring,  then  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
sifted  with  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour.  Beat  thoroughly.  Take  the 
fruits  and  mix  in  a  platter,  sift  flour  over  them  and  stir  until  the  fruit  is 
thoroughly  coated,  stir  quickly  into  the  batter,  pour  in  well-greased  pan, 
bake  one  and  a  half  hours  in  moderate  oven.  After  cake  is  cooled,  put 
away  in  a  tight  box,  laying  a  half  dozen  sound  apples  around  it ;  it  will 
keep  for  a  year  and  improve  in  flavor.— Mbs.  E.  H.  Mackenzie,  Lake 
Qharles,  La. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar  (brown  preferred),  one  pound 
of  butter,  one  dozen  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two  pounds 
of  raisins  after  they  are  seeded  and  clipped,  one  and  three-fourths  pounds 
of  currants,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cinnamon,  one  level  tablespoonful  of 
mace,  four  nutmegs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  wineglassfuls  of  wine, 
one  wineglassful  of  brandy,  two  pounds  of  citron,  one  small  teacupful  of 
preserve  syrup.  After  you  clip  the  raisins  and  currants,  roll  in  flour 
before  adding  to  the  batter.  Bake  very  slowly.  This  quantity  will  make 
two  good-sized  cakes. — Mbs.  W.  E.  Sweabingen,  Vienna,  Oa. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Four  eggs  (beat  yolks  and  whites  separately),  one  cupful  of  butter, 
two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Cook  in  layers.  Filling : 
Take  a  quart  of  fruit,  most  any  kind,  apples  or  peaches  preferred,  two 
cupsful  of  sugar,  a  little  water;  let  cook  until  the  same  can  be  easily 
mashed,  then  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  whites 
of  two  eggs  beaten  well ;  cook  till  thickened.— Mbs.  L.  G.  Tipton,  An- 
dalusia, Ala. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

To  seven  well-beaten  eggs  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
molasses  (sorghum),  and  continue  to  beat  until  the  mixture  is  light  and 
smooth.  Add  a  half  pound  each  of  seven  different  dried  fruits  or  pre- 
serves, such  as  raisins,  prunes,  currants  or  figs,  and  preserved  apples, 
pears,  quinces,  figs  or  citron.  Do  not  use  the  syrup  of  the  preserves. 
Add  a  half  pound  of  almonds  and  one-half  pound  of  walnut  meats  (black 
walnuts  preferred).  For  flavor,  use  a  half  pound  of  candied  peel  (lemon 
vr  orange),  two  teaspoonsful  of  mace  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  einna- 


CAKES 


mon.  Fruits  and  nuts  must  be  chopped.  Sift  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder  with  about  a  quart  of  flour,  and  stir  again  until  all  is  smooth. 
Last  of  all,  add  one  pound  of  soft  butter.  This  butter  is  best  beaten  un- 
til soft,  but  may  be  melted  over  a  steaming  kettle.  Grease  a  large  pie 
pan  and  lay  a  white  paper  in  the  bottom.  Have  the  pan  warm  and  put 
all  your  cake  into  it  It  is  much  better  cooked  all  together  and  will 
not  rise  very  much.  Cook  slowly  and  test  to  see  if  done  by  pushing  a 
clean  straw  into  the  middle  If  no  dough  adheres  to  the  straw,  the  cake 
is  done,  but  should  be  allowed  to  cool  before  removing  from  the  pan. — 
— Mattie  Earnest,  Winfield,  Ala. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One  round  each  of  flour,  sugar,  butter,  raisins,  currants,  citron,  figs, 
dates  and  English  walnuts,  ten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  whiskey  or  brandy,  a 
half  gill  of  syrup,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  cooking  soda,  two  tablespoons- 
ful  of  mixed  spices.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beating  each  five  minutes  in  the  mixture  of  butter  and 
sugar.  Then  add  part  of  the  flour,  mix  the  soda  in  the  syrup,  stir  until 
it  froths,  then  add  to  mixture ;  stir  well.  Cut  the  fruit  and  pour  the 
whiskey  over  it,  stir  in  the  spices  and  let  stand  at  least  four  hours  (all 
night  is  better)  ;  take  the  remaining  flour  and  roll  the  fruit  in  it,  then 
add  fruit ;  beat  twenty  minutes  longer.  For  a  cake  three  and  a  half  or 
four  inches  deep,  it  will  take  four  and  a  half  or  five  hours  to  bake  in  a 
slow  oven.  Use  brown  sugar. — Mbs.  Cabl  O.  Svendsen,  St.  Simon  I$- 
<-and  Light  House,  Brunswick,  Ga. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Five  eggs  well  beaten,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  and  one  cupful 
of  butter  creamed  together,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  spice  or  cinnamon,  two  cupsful 
of  flour  mixed  well,  one  box  of  currants,  one  box  of  raisins  (seedless), 
one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  one  quart  of  mixed  nuts.  Rinse  raisins  and 
currants,  chop  nuts  and  citron  fine,  and  cover  with  flour;  rub  flour  on 
well,  so  they  will  not  settle  at  bottom  of  cake.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
one  and  a  half  hours. — Mbs.  E.  H.  Nivens,  Rockdale,  Terns. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  five  eggs,  one 
pound  of  currants,  a  half  pound  of  figs,  one  large  cupful  of  hickorynut 
meats  chopped  fine,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda  or  saleratus,  two  teaspoons- 
ful of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonfu'  of  allspice,  one  large  cupful  of  butter, 
seven  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  a  half  pound  of 
dates,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  and  one  nutmeg.  Prepare  fruit  and  dry 
with  flour,  then  mix  butter,  sugar,  milk  and  flour.  Bake  two  and  a  half 
hours. — Vibginia  Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  flour,  which  must  be  browned,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  the 
eggs  well  and  stir  by  degrees  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  alternately  with 
the  flour ;  into  this  put  six  nutmegs,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds 
of  currants,  two  pounds  of  citron,  one  pound  of  almonds,  a  half  pound  of 
figs,  a  half  pound  of  dates,  one  teacupful  of  molasses. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Ad- 
dison, Spider,  La. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Two  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one-fourth  pound  of 
citron,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  three  eggs  (well  beaten),  a  half  cupful  of 


152 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


syrup,^  one  teaspoonful  of  nunneg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder,  one-fourth  cupful  of  wine  or  brandy.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  syrup,  milk  and  eggs.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together,  lastly, 
add  fruit  dredged  in  flour.  Bake  very  slowly  three  hours.  When  done, 
wine  slowly  over.  Put  away  in  a  tight  bos. 
■  iir  weeks  before  using. — Mbs.  Yv".  N.  Cum- 


cupsful  of 

oaked  a  m< 
la. 


SUIT  CAKE 


sweet  butter,  one  pound  of 
pounds  of  currants,  three- 


a  teaspoonful  of  i 
lould  be  well  Sou; 


:s.  two  table- 
wineglassful 
:.  Steep  this 
•  lightly,  put 
oda  dissolved 
ed ;  if  neces- 
and  lay  it  in 
tare,  then  of 
ur  hours,  ac- 


eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  o 
spoonsful  of  nutmeg,  two  tablespooi 
of  brandy,  one  coffee  cupful  of  molas 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes,  not  boilii 
the  fruit  in  last,  stirring  it  gradually, 
in  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  The  fn 
sary,  add  flour  after  the  fruit  is  in,  t 
the  pan.  Lay  in  some  slices  of  citr( 
citron,  etc...  till  the  pan  is  nearly  fi 
cording  to  the  thickness  of  loaves,  in  a  tolerably  hot  oven  and  with 
steady  heat.  Let  it  cool  in  the  oven  gradually.  Ice  when  cold. — Mrs 
I.  T.  Law,  Elba,  Ala. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

ful  of  flour,  four  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cups- 
)f  buttermilk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  two 
two  teaspoonsful  of  spice,  two  teaspoonsful 
:  vanilla,  one  wineglassful  of  wine,  two 
mds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  one 
nd  of  English  walnuts.  Roll  fruit  in  flour. 
i.  A.  O.  Oliver.  Rogersville,  Ala. 


Twelve  eggs,  eight  cup- 
ful of  butter,  two  cupsful 
teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon, 
of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonfi 
pounds  of  raisins,  two  po 
pound  of  almonds,  one  poi 
Brown  flour  in  stove. — Me 


FRUIT  OAK 
One  pound  of  butter  beaten  to  a  crea 
sugar.    Afcer  this  is  thoroughly  mixed, 
twelve  eggs.    Put  in  one  pound  of  brow 
tablespoon sful  of  grated  chocolate,  one  tab 
mon,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  tea 
five  pounds  of  seeded  raisins  cut  in  pi 
minced  citron,  one  pound  of  crystallize) 
lized  pineapple,  one  pound  of  blanchec 
(weighed  before  being  shelled) .   Put  all 
cupsful  of  grape  juice  and  let  it  stand  o 


good-si; 


dd  to  this  one  pound  of 
the  well-beaten  yolks  of 
lour,  in  which  mis  two 
onful  of  powdered  cinna- 
iful  of  powdered  cloves, 
eces.  one  and  a  half  pounds  of 
1  cherries,  one  pound  of  crystal- 
almonds,  one  pound  of  pecans 
in  a  vessel  and  pour  over  it  two 
ver  night  (after  it  has  been  well 
pound  of  white  flour,  and  mix  it 
;ful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of 
ke  one  hour.  This  makes  two 
Zvntersvffle,  Ala. 


One  pound  each 


peel,  one  gratec  nun 
cinnamon  and  spice, 
eight  eggs,  one  and  i 
Cream  butter  and  si 
lasses,  into  which  yoi 


ARK  FRUIT  CAKE 

Iter,  sugar,  flour,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  two 
id  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  and  also  one- 
)r  preserved  figs  and  candied  orange  and  lemon 
me  heaping  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cloves, 
se  two  tablespoonsful  of  ground  mixed  spices, 
:  glasses  of  wine  or  brandy  Mix  as  follows: 
ogether,  add  eggs,  beaten,  then  the  cup  of  mo- 
e  stirred  enough  soda  to  make  it  foam,  then  the 


CAKES 


153 


flour,  into  which  hag  been  sifted  one  level  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
The  fruit  should  be  thoroughly  rubbed  with  one  extra  cupful  of  Hour. 
Mix  the  batter,  then  add  the  floured  fruit,  then  the  spices,  and  lastly,  the 
wine.  If  wine  cannot  be  had,  use  fruit  or  berry  juice.  If  a  lighter  cake 
is  wanted,  omit  the  molasses  and  spices,  and  use  juice  of  two  oranges  and 
two  extra  eggs. — Mrs.  Lessik  H.  Fort,  Pelion,  8.  C. 

BOSTON  FRUIT  CAKE 
Whites  of  ten  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  milk,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
lemon  flavoring  ;  cook  in  layers.  Filling  :  Take  the  ten  yolks,  one-fourth 
pound  of  butter,  a  half  pound  of  sugar,  beat  light,  add  one  pound  of 
chopped  seeded  raisins,  a  half  pound  of  citron,  cut  fine,  one  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  one  cupful  of  chopped  almonds,  one  cupful  of  currants,  juice  of  one 
orange,  or  a  little  sherry  wine.  Put  all  on  stove,  cook  a  few  minutes 
until  it  thickens,  then  spread  between  layers. — Mrs.  O.  F.  Rushing, 
Montgomery,  Ala. 

BLACK  FRUIT  CAKE 
Put  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  flour  into  a  large  biscuit  pan,  set  in  the 
s  ove  and  stir  often  until  it  is  a  golden  brown.  Then  prepare  all  your 
fruits,  four  pounds  of  raisins,  one  pound  each  of  currants,  citron,  figs  and 
almonds.  The  nexr  morning,  make  a  rich  pound  cake  batter  of  twelve 
eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  brown  flour,  one  pound  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonsful  o2  lard,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  spice,  nutmeg,  and 
cloves,  one  glassful  of  blackberry  jelly  and  the  grated  rind,  pulp  and 
juice  of  four  lemons.  Mix  your  half-pound  of  brown  flour  well  into  the 
fruits,  stir  into  the  batter  and  just  before  putting  into  the  pan,  add  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  for  two  and  a  half  hours,  either  in  a 
steamer  or  over  a  pot  of  water.  This  will  make  one  quite  large  or  two 
medium-sized  cakes ;  dry  in  the  stove  for  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  J. 
Pluss,  Laurens,  S.  C. 

BLACK  FRUIT  CAKE 
Twelve  eggs,  one  pound  of  sugar  (either  brown  or  granulated),  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  butter,  three  pounds  of  raisins, 
chopped  fine,  two  pounds  of  currants,  one  pound  of  citron,  two  teaspoons- 
ful of  pulverized  spice,  two  teaspoonsful  of  pulverized  cloves,  the  same 
amount  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  pulverized  ginger, 
one  teaspoonful  of  mace,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  molasses,  a  half  teacupful  of  wine  or  brandy.  Roll  fruit  in 
flour,  mix  batter  well.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  three  hours. — Mrs.  H.  P. 
Salley,  Antreville,  8.  C. 

SOUTHERN  FRUIT  CAKE 
One  cupful  each  of  butter,  sugar  and  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  sour 
cream,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  sepa- 
rately, a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
allspice,  a  fourth  of  a  nutmeg,  grated,  a  half  pint  of  seeded  raisins,  a 
half  cupful  of  currants,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Mix  in  order  named. 
Dissolve  soda  in  one  tablespoonful  of  hot  water  and  add  last  Bak9  in 
slow  oven. — Anonymous- 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 
Cream  a  half  pound  of  butter,  add  one  pound  of  sugar,  beat  until 
very  light ;  one  cupful  of  water,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  well.  Mix  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one- 
fourth  pound  of  citron,  a  half  pound  of  figs,  a  half  pound  of  dates,  a  half 
pound  of  almond  dust  with  a  half  cupful  of  flour ;  beat  whites  of  five 


154 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


eggs,  stir  into  cake  mixture ;  add  the  fruit  Bake  slowly  for  three  hours. 
Ice  if  desired  — Irene  Cbownoveb,  Bridgeport.  Ala. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 
One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  two 
pounds  of  almonds,  two  pounds  of  citron,  one  large  grated  cocoanut, 
twelve  eggs  (whites),  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.   Bake  slowly 
for  two  hours.— Mrs.  T.  S.  Booths,  Naftel,  Ala. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 
Cream  together  a  pound  of  butter  and  a  pound  of  sugar,  add  a  pound 
of  flour  and  well-beaten  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  pound  of  citron,  one  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  one 
cocoanut  (grated  fine),  a  half  pound  each  of  crystallized  cherry  and 
pineapple,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  If  the  batter  is  too  thick, 
add  a  little  boiling  water.  Steam  for  two  hours  and  dry  inside  the  stove 
twenty  minutes. — Mbs.  J.  J.  Pluss,  Laurens,  8.  C. 

KENTUCKY  FRUIT  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  fifteen  eggs,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla.  Mix  in  the 
usual  manner  and  bake  in  layers.  Filling :  One  cupful  of  raisins,  one 
cupful  of  currants,  a  half  cupful  of  citron,  a  half  cupful  of  pecans  or 
almonds;  chop  all  together.  Make  a  plain,  boiled  icing  and  add  to  it 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  brandy  or  wine,  and  a  small  pinch  of  citric  acid.  Spread  be- 
tween the  layers  of  cake,  each  time  sprinkling  it  with  the  chopped  fruit 
and  nuts.  Use  a  white  frosting  on  the  outside  of  the  cake  and  garnish 
with  raisins  and  nuts.— Mrs.  J.  S.  Richabdsqn,  Delta,  La. 

MOLASSES  FRUIT  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsfu! 
of  cooking  molasses,  one  cupful  of  milk,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  half  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one 
teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  five  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  one  cupful  of  dates,  one  cupful  of 
prunes,  one  cupful  of  currants,  one  cupful  of  mixed  nuts.  Work  the 
butter  and  sugar  well  together,  add  the  eggs,  then  molasses,  then  the 
milk  and  spices  ;  sift  in  the  flour  by  degrees,  dissolve  the  soda  in  a  table- 
spoonful of  water  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Flour  the  nuts  and  fruit  and 
add  last.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour.  This  will  keep  six  months 
if  kept  well  covered. — Mss.  Gaines,  Bowling  Green,  Fla. 

HONEY  FRUIT  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-half  cupful  of  honey,  one-half  cupful 
of  sour  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  raisins,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  one- 
half  cupful  of  walnuts,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  some  spice,  but  not  too  much,  or  it  will  spoil  the  honey  flavor.- — 
Mbs.  W.  R.  Mabsh,  Beeville,  Texas. 

GRAHAM  FRUIT  CAKE 
Two  soup  plates  full  of  Graham  bread  (one  day  old)  from  which  crust 
has  been  removed,  two  soup  plates  full  of  stewed  apples,  to  which  you 
add,  before  cooking,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  currants,  properly  sweet- 
ened, one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  chopped  mixed  nuts,  a  half  cupful  oi 
butter,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar.  Butter  a  baking  pan,  mix  sugar, 


CAKES 


louts  and  Graham  bread,  sprinkle  some  of  it  on  the  bottom  and  border 
*£  the  baking  pan  to  prevent  sticking.  Put  in  one  layer  of  bread,  one 
layer  of  fruit,  and  ena  up  with  bread.  Place  butter  on  top  in  lump*. 
Bake  au  hour  in  moderate  heat  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Whipped  cream 
may  be  added. — Mrs.  Minna  Andbeae,  Mathis,  Ga. 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
three  cupsful  of  flour,  four  eggs,  one  teaapoonful  of  baking  powder ;  beat 
eggs  separately  until  very  light,  add  sugar  and  butter,  dissolve  baking 
powder  in  milk  and  add  to  eggs  and  butter,  then  flour.  Beat  well.  Fill- 
ing :  One  cupful  of  water,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  grated 
cocoanut  juice  of  two  oranges,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  spice, 
and  one  cupful  of  raisins ;  when  boiled  a  long  time,  add  enough  corn- 
starch to  make  thick.  Put  together  while  warm.  This  makes  four  lay- 
ers.— Mbs.  Bebta  Brooks,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

FEATHER  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  two  eggs, 
one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder.   Vanilla  flavoring. — Mbs.  Reed,  Sb.,  Htiliard,  Fla. 

FEATHER  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  light  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  whites  of  four  well-beaten  eggs,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  to  taste.  This  will  make  four  lay- 
ers. Filling :  Whip  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  thick  sweet  cream,  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  to  taste,  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  one  grated  cocoanut ; 
spread  between  layers  and  on  top. — Mbs.  C.  C.  Browne,  Germania,  Miss. 

FEATHER  CAKE 
Take  two  teacupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teacup- 
ful  of  butter,  the  yolks  of  four  well-beaten  eggs,  four  cupsful  of  flour ; 
sift  the  flour,  then  measure  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  mix 
until  it  is  smooth.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  until  dry.  Add  it  to  the  cake 
last  Mix  lightly ;  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  thin. — Mrs.  L.  E. 
Hawkins,  Lingle,  Miss. 

FEATHER  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter ;  cream  these 
together;  then  add  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two 
cupsful  of  flour  into  which  have  been  sifted  two  rounding  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring  extract.  Beat  well  together. 
— Mrs.  E.  Frazer,  Halletsville,  Texas. 

FEATHER  CAKE 
Cream  one-half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  add  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
sifted  with  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  egg-whites  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to  the  batter.  Can  be  baked  in  a  loaf  or  layers,  and 
put  together  with  cream  filling.  Cream  filling :  Put  one  large  cupful  of 
sugar  in  an  enamel  pan,  then  add  enough  fresh  milk  to  moisten  the  sugar. 
Let  boil  one  minute,  take  off  the  stove  and  beat  until  cool  enough  to 
spread  on  cake.  Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mbs.  J.  L.  Donaldson,  Char- 
lotte, y.  a 

FAIRY  LOAF  CAKE 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  one-fourth  cupsful  of  sugar, 
yolks  of  four  eggs  (beaten),  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half 


156 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


cupsful  of  flour,  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  four 

eggs  (beaten  dry),  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Sift  the  flour  and  bak- 
ing powder  together  three  or  four  times ;  beat  the  butter  to  a  cream  and 
gradually  add  sugar,  yolks,  milk,  flour  mixture,  whites  of  eggs  and  va- 
nilla in  the  order  given,  bearing  each  in  vigorously.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 
— Mbs.  G.  W.  Gleasox,  Gahagan,  La. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
butter  (part  lard  is  just  as  good),  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  cupsful  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  four  eggs,  with  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  grated  chocolate,  one  cupful  of  Irish 
potatoes ;  cream  with  chocolate  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  spice,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  This  is  better  baked  a  few  days  before  icing. — Ieene  Cbown- 
ovee,  Bridgeport,  Ala. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
For  the  custard  part,  take  one  cupful  of  unsweetened  grated  choco- 
late, one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  yolk  of 
one  egg.  Flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Stir  all  together  in  an 
agate  saucepan.  Cook  slowly  and  put  away  to  cool.  For  cake  part,  take 
one  cupful  brown  sugar,  one-third  cupful  of  cottolene  or  lard,  two  eggs 
and  two  cupsful  of  flour.  Cream  the  cottolene  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  add  a  half  cupful  of  milk  and  flour  and  whites,  beaten  stiff.  Beat 
all  together,  then  stir  in  the  custard.  Last,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Bake  in  two  layer  tins,  in  moderate 
oven,  about  forty-five  minutes.  When  cool  put  together  with  caramel 
filling. — Mbs.  Q.  M.  Shockley,  Gainesville,  Texas. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of 
sour  milk,  two  well-beaten  eggs,  two  squares  of  chocolate  dissolved  in 
one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  mixed  with  sour 
milk,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  two  loaves, 
put  together  with  icing. — Mbs.  J.  A.  St.  Dizieb,  Lake  Charles.  La. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  with  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar, 
add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  in  which  a  teaspoonful 
of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  two  cupsful  of  flour  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  ;  have  two  squares  of  chocolate  melted,  stir  in  a  half  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  and  when  the  mixture  is  smooth  stir  it  into  the  cake  bat- 
ter. Bake  in  two  layers  and  put  together  with  white  frosting. — MBS. 
F.  M.  Davenpobt,  Valley  Head,  Ala. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  a  half 
cupful  of  sour  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour.  Grate  one  cake  of 
chocolate  and  put  into  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water  with  one  level  tea- 
spoonful of  soda ;  add  last  to  the  cake  and  beat  well.  Bake  in  two 
square  tins.  Frosting :  Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Cook,  and  when  done  take  off 
stove  and  beat  till  white  and  cold.— Mbs.  C.  B.  Edwabds,  Knoxville,  Ga. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
Cream  together  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs.    When  light,  add  a  half  cupful  of  grated  chocolate 


CAKES  1#|  i 

melted  In  two  tablespoonsful  of  hot  water.  Add  two-third?,  cupful  of 
sweet  milk  in  which  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  two 
cupsful  of  flour  in  which  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  has  been 
mixed ;  lastly,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  icing  between.  The  above  is  enough 
for  two  good  layers  baked  in  frying  pan  No.  8.  Pecans  can  be  used  in 
the  icing.  These  layers  cannot  be  handled  as  others.  They  are  so  light 
they  will  be  crumbled,  therefore,  must  be  thicker. — Mes.  E.  J.  Blow, 
Jk.,  Teddy,  Mo. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  cupsfu!  of  Sour,  five 
whole  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  scant  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  a  half  square  of  bitter  chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling  :  Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoonsful  of  chocolate,  one  cupful  of 
butter.   Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mes.  J.  B.  Jennison,  Alexton,  La. 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE 
Cream  a  half  cupful  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  add  a  half 
cupful  of  milk  alternately,  with  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour  in  which 
has  been  mixed  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Lastly  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  ioaf.  Icing : 
Make  a  syrup  of  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  and  eight  tablespoons- 
ful of  water,  boil ;  when  this  strings  from  spoon,  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs  and  continue  beating  for  a  half  Lour.  Flavor  like  cake 
and  pour  thickly  over  cake. — Mas.  K.  A.  Leitnek,  Survey,  Flo.. 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE 
Dark  part :  One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  scant  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half 
cupful  of  molasses,  two-thirds  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupsful  of  Hour,  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  cupful  of 
raisins,  chopped,  a  half  cupful  of  currants,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  White  part :  One 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk, 
two  cupsful  of  flour,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder,  two  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together 
with  tart  jelly  between.  Make  frosting  for  top. — Mes.  A.  M.  Palmee, 
Grand  Bay,  Ala. 

COOGAN 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  yeast,  if  strong,  or  two  cupsful  if  weak, 
two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  or  five  eggs,  the 
whites  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  flour  to  make  pliant  dough. 
Set  sponge  over  night.  In  the  morning  make  up  the  coogan.  Let  dough 
rise  only  once,  then  divide  it  and  roll  it  out  in  sheets  about  an  inch  thick. 
Then  grease  over  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed.  Roll  it  as  for  an  apple  roll,  and  cut  in 
pieces  about  an  inch  thick.  Place  in  a  greased  pan  and  sprinkle  again 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Place  cut 
side  up. — Mes.  A.  H.  Robebtson,  Griffin,  Fla. 

CREAM  CAKE 

Take  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonsful  of  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  stirred  in  one-half  cupful  of  flour;  take  one  cupful  of 
white  sugar  and  stir  into  it  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten,  add  water 
and  flour  and  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  three  layers. 
Cream  for  filling :  Beat  one  egg  with  three-fourths  cupful  of  white  r-ugar, 
add  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter  and  one-half  pint  of  milk.  Heat  to 
boiling  point  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  or  flour  stirred 


m 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


smooth  in  a  little  milk,  boil  np,  being  careful  not  to  scorch.  When  ccol 
flavor  and  spread  between  layers. — Mes.  EL  B.  Pabtbidge,  Loaley,  AUh 

CREAM  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  two  cupsful  of 
milk,  five  cupsful  of  flour,  three  teaspoonsf ul  of  baking  powder ;  flavor 
with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  one  of  lemon.  Beat  one  egg  and  one 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  together,  then  add  a  half  cupful  of  sifted 
flour,  wet  with  a  little  milk  to  make  perfectly  smooth.  Stir  all  into  one 
pint  of  boiling  milk.  It  is  best  to  put  the  milk  into  a  double  boiler  to 
prevent  it  from  burning.  Flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and 
one  of  lemon. — Cecil  Rust,  Pelican,  La. 

CREAM  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  four  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  one  cup- 
ful of  flour,  and  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well. 
Lemon  filling :  Three-fourths  cupful  of  water,  four  tablespoonsful  of 
sugar,  the  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon ;  boil  five  minutes.  Then  beat 
one  egg,  add  a  good  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  beat  well  together  and 
boil  with  rest  until  thick.  Stir  until  done,  then  spread  on  cake.-— Edith 
Jkbsild,  Oak,  Ala. 

CREAM  CAKE 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  well  beaten,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teacup- 
ful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teacupful  of  butter,  four  teacupsful  of  flour,  three 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  bake  in  layers.  Filling :  One  teacupful 
of  sugar  boiled  till  thick,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  table- 
spoonsful of  sweet  milk  with  flour  till  thick,  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth. — Mbs.  Doea  Oglesby,  DeLeon,  Texas. 

CREAM  WALNUT  CAKE 
Whites  of  four  eggs,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  eupc- 
ful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  two  thick  layers.  Put  together  with  icing.  A  thick  layer  of 
walnut  meats  may  be  put  between  layers,  also  on  the  top  layer. — Mbs. 
Annie  McDonald,  Dry  Creek,  N.  G. 

CREAM  LAYER  CAKE 
Beat  together  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-fourth  cupful  of  butter,  add 
a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  one  and  a  half  cups- 
ful of  flour,  any  desired  flavoring,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  pow- 
der. Filling :  Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  cream,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  any  desired  flavoring. — Mbs.  F.  D. 
May,  Brandon,  Miss. 

CREAM  LAYER  CAKE 
The  whites  of  nine  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  cups- 
ful of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  two  heaping  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with 
the  flour ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  milk  and  flour,  and  last, 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  This  will  make  eight  layers.  Fill- 
ing :  Take  the  yolks  of  five  eggs,  heat  well  a  half  cupful  of  water,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  flour  or  corn-starch,  mixed.  Stir  the  eggs  into  one 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  boiling  sweet  milk,  that  has  in  it  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  and  last,  the  flour  and  water.  Stir  fast 
to  keep  from  being  lumpy.  Flavor  with  half  of  a  lemon,  grated. — Mbs. 
W.  E.  Bali > a ed,  Hanceville.  Ala. 

GOLDEN  CREAM  CAKE 
Yolks  of  ten  eggs,  two  scant  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  four  cupaful 


CAKES 


159 


«>f  sifted  flour;  flavoring.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  to  the  lightest  possible 
cream;  a  rotary  egg  beater  is  best  for  yolks.  Add  to  the  sugar  and 
cream  again,  add  milk,  salt,  flour  and  baking  powder,  which  have  been 
sifted  five  times.  Bake  in  two  pans,  lined  on  bottom  with  paper,  in  mod- 
erately hot  oven.  This  cake  is  a  little  easy  to  scorch,  but  avoid  looking 
often.  Filling :  Three  cupsful  of  dark  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful 
of  boiling  water.  Boil  till  it  flies  off  the  spoon  like  a  hair,  but  do  not 
stir  only  to  dissolve  the  sugar.  Pour  into  it  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs,  beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread  without  running  too  much. 
Use  any  desired  flavor. — Mbs.  C.  J.  Rhodes,  Lincolnton,  N.  O. 

JELLY  CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon 
flavoring,  a  half  pound  of  butter,  a  cupful  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  warm 
water.  Mix  and  stir  well  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Have  layers  one-half 
inch  thick,  spread  jelly  on  cake,  then  put  another  cake  on,  and  so  on,  till 
it  is  as  high  as  wanted.  Ice  and  spread  cocoanut  over  sides,  and  put  up 
to  dry. — Mbs.  Boyd  Bryan,  Harlem,  Fla. 

JELLY  CAKE 

Beat  to  a  cream  one  pound  of  butter,  add  one  pound  of  sugar,  then 
add  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  three-fourths  pound  of  flour,  and  finally,  add 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth.  Bake  in  shallow  tin  and  put 
jelly  between  each  layer.  Flavor. — Mbs.  A.  J.  McMichaels,  Hick- 
man, Mis  9. 

JELLY  ROLL  CAKE 
Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  water,  one 
cupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon. 
Bake  in  a  large  dripping  pan  with  a  piece  of  well-greased  paper  in  the 
bottom.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a  clean  towel,  remove  paper  and 
spread  with  jelly.  Begin  at  one  end  of  the  cake  and  roll  it  carefully. 
Press  each  end  of  roll  well  together,  wrap  towel  around  it  and  lay  it  on  a 
soft  cushion  till  cool. — Mbs.  W.  P.  Stbickland,  Shady  Grove,  Fla. 

JELLY  ROLL  CAKE 
Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  spoon- 
ful of  water,  and  one  spoonful  of  extract.  Mix  well  and  spread  very 
thin  in  a  well-greased,  long,  shallow  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Turn 
out  and  spread  jelly  over  it  and  roll  it  up  while  hot.  Slice  when  cold 
— Mbs.  M.  J.  Gaskin,  Newton,  Texas. 

JELLY  ROLL  CAKE 
Take  five  eggs,  beat  very  light,  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  any  preferred  flavoring  ;  stir 
all  together  well,  pour  into  a  well-greased  bread  pan  and  bake  moder- 
ately. Turn  out  on  bread  towel  and  spread  jelly  over  the  bottom  and 
roll  quickly  before  it  gets  too  cold  to  roll  up  nicely. — Mbs.  W.  P.  Ibby, 
Pidcolce,  Texas. 

JELLY  ROLL  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  scant  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  level 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  eggs, 
beaten  light,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one-third  cupful  of  hot  milk,  one  glass- 
ful of  jelly.  Beat  the  sugar  into  the  eggs,  add  the  lemon  rind,  then  the 
flour,  sifted  three  times  with  the  salt  and  the  baking  powder,  lastly,  the 
milk.  Bake  in  a  buttered  dripping  pan.  Turn  out  on  a  damp  cloth  and 
trim  off.   Crimp  edges,  spread  with  jellvv..an4  turn  Qy,er  and  over  into  « 


160 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


roll.  Dredge  the  top  with  powdered  sugar. — Mbs.  Lucxle  Davis,  Bop- 
trier,  Texas. 

JELLY  ROLL  CAKE 
One  cnpful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  three  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  one 
cupful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Beat  whites  and 
yolks  of  eggs  separately.  Bake  in  thin  sheets.  Wring  a  towel  out  of 
cold  water  and  lay  it  double  on  the  table ;  slip  the  cake  from  pan  on  wet 
towel ;  spread  it  with  jelly  and  roll  up  ;  dip  in  fine  sugar  or  icing  if  pre- 
ferred.— Mbs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jb.,  Teddy,  Ala. 

JELLY  ROLL  CAKE 
Sift  together  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  heap- 
ing teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Break  in  four  eggs,  add  four  table- 
spoonsful  of  sweet  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  any  flavoring  liked.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  in  long  bread  pan.  It  ourns  easily  and,  therefore, 
must  be  watched.  Spread  with  jelly  and  immediately  roll  up  in  towel. 
— Mbs.  Alex  Scabbobough,  Biloxi,  Miss. 

JELLY  DIAMOND 
Cream  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter, 
add  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract 
Grease  and  dust  with  flour  a  square  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  When  done,  cut  in  half  and  put  jelly  between  and  white  icing  on 
top.  When  cold  cut  in  diamond-shape  and  serve. — Mbs.  Jas.  McNab, 
Douglas,  Ga. 

JEW  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  orange  extract,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  whites 
of  two  eggs ;  add  the  eggs  last — Mbs.  A.  Lewis,  Hazlehurst,  Miss. 

JAM  CAKE 

One  teacupful  of  sugar,  two  teacupsful  of  flour,  a  half  teacupful  of 
butter,  four  eggs,  nine  tablespoonsful  of  buttermilk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teacupful  of  jam,  any 
kind  (strawberry  is  best),  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  cloves,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  allspice. — Mbs.  D.  W.  Spio- 
eneb,  Equality,  Ala. 

JAM  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sour 
milk,  one  cupful  of  blackberry  jam,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  two  cupsful 
of  flour.  Put  jam  in  with  flour.  Bake  slowly. — Mbs.  Fbank  Reed, 
Billiard,  Fla. 

JAM  CAKE 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two- thirds  cupful  of  butter,  two 
cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  spoonful  of  soda,  one  cup- 
ful of  jam  (or  chopped  raisins),  one  spoonful  of  allspice,  one  spoonful 
of  cinnamon.  Bake  in  layers  and  spread  with  icing. — Mbs.  R.  E.  Mc- 
Mutbay,  Midnight,  Miss. 

JAM  CAKE 

Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  together,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
in  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  blackberry  jam,  three  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  nuts, 


CAKES 


©ns  cupful  of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nut 
meg.   Bake  in  layers. — Mm.  Maby  Sams,  Rockwall,  Texas. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
butter,  six  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon, 
two  teaspoonsful  of  cloves,  four  tablespoonsful  of  sour  milk.  Put  in  last 
two  cupsful  of  blackberry  jam.  Bake  in  layers. — Mrs.  Noba  Jones, 
Piedmont,  S.  C. 

GRAND  DUKE  CAKE 
White  part :  Whites  of  six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
buttc*  (or  scant  cupful  of  cottolene),  four  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful 
of  sweet  milk  or  water,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  sifted 
in  last  cupful  of  flour,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a 
tabiespoonful  of  boiling  water,  added  just  before  the  whites,  or  a  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder  may  be  used  if  desired.  Bake  this  batter  in 
four  layers.  Dark  part :  Yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter  or  cot- 
tolene, two  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk  or  water ;  baking  powder  or  cream  of  tartar  as  called  for  in  white 
part ;  one  cupful  of  good  syrup,  two  cupsful  of  chopped  seeded  raisins, 
two  or  three  teaspoonsful  of  ground  spice.  This  is  enough  for  four  lay- 
ers. Filling :  Take  the  water  from  a  cocoanut  (if  not  sufficient  to  make 
sauce,  add  water),  juice  of  two  lemons,  three  tablespoonsful  of  corn 
starch  or  a  half  teacupful  of  flour.  Work  flour  or  starch  in  cold  water, 
then  add  two  cupsful  of  boiling  water.  After  boiling,  add  two  cupsful 
of  sugar  and  four  cupsful  of  grated  cocoanut.  Boil  till  thick  and  when 
cool  spread  between  layers,  alternating  dark  and  light.  Ice.  Better  af- 
ter a  month's  keeping.  Layers  and  filling  sufficient  for  two  cakes. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Walkeb,  WUlard,  Qa. 

GRAND  DUKE  CAKE 
White  part :  Whites  of  three  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Dark  part :  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  two  cups- 
ful of  flour,  one  cupful  of  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  When  ready  to 
stack  make  filling  as  follows :  Put  in  pan  on  a  stove  two  cupsful  of  white 
sugar  with  a  half  cupful  of  water,  and  cook  until  it  threads.  Have  ready 
whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  pour  syrup  on  them,  beating  all  the 
time.  Then  add  one  cupful  of  raisins  and  a  half  cupful  of  nuts,  chopped 
fine,  and  spread  between  layers. — Mbs.  W.  H.  Wintebs,  Union  Church, 
Miss. 

LAYER  CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  buttermilk,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful 
of  lard,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
some  salt  Bake  in  four  layers. — Lydia  Blackwell,  Driftwood,  Texas. 

LAYER  CAKE 

One-half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  four  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  milk 
urtil  very  light,  add  beaten  yolks,  then  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder. 
Beat  thoroughly,  adding  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake  in  pans  fifteen  min- 
utes. Any  filling  desired  may  be  used. — Mbs.  J.  L.  Davis,  Irvine,  Fla. 

LAYER  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sour  milk  (buttermilk  or  clab- 
ber), three  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  uid  five  cupsful  of  flour,  with  one 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


teaspoonful  of  soda.  This  makes  nine  layers,  enough  to  make  two  cakes. 
You  may  use  any  flavor  you  like ;  also  you  may  use  water  and  baking 
powder  instead  of  milk  and  soda. — Mbs.  J.  Beaty,  Lament,  Flo. 

LAYER  CAKE 

Make  any  good  cake  batter,  enough  for  four  layers.  Divide  in  two 
equal  parts.  To  one  of  these  parts  add  two  cupsful  of  seeded  raisins,  a 
half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice.  Place  in  alternate  lay- 
ers, using  whatever  filling  preferred. — Mbs.  Ethel  Raynob,  Cotton- 
dale,  Ala. 

SNOW  CAKE 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  corn-starch,  one  cupful  of 
flour  with  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  mixed  in  flour  before  sift- 
ing. Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  flour  and  corn-starch,  stirring 
rapidly.  Add  the  whites  beaten  very  light,  and  bake  in  cakes  one  inch 
thick.  Filling :  Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  two  cupsful  of 
sugar ;  pour  one-fourth  pint  of  boiling  water  over  sugar  and  boil  until 
it  will  harden  in  cold  water.  Pour  boiling  syrup  over  the  beaten  eggs 
and  beat  until  mixture  is  cold  and  to  a  stiff  cream ;  add  before  it  is  quite 
cold  a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  your  favorite  flavoring.  When  cold, 
spread  between  cakes. — Mbs.  Mynob  E.  Hendbix,  Bright,  Oa. 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  cup- 
ful of  sour  cream,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  flour  to  make  quite  a 
stiff  mixture.   Beat  well. — Mbs.  W.  R.  Maesh,  Beeville,  Texas. 

SOUR  MILK  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  one  egg,  one  and 
a  half  cupsful  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  rais- 
ins, a  half  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
flour  to  stiffen. — Mbs.  F.  A.  Cubby,  Venice,  Fla. 

SCOTCH  CAKE 
The  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter, 
three  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  third  cupsful  of  sweet  milk, 
three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  saucer  of 
raisins,  cut  fine,  two  tablespoonsful  of  brandy,  or  wine  if  you  wish. — 
Mbs.  A.  G.  Gbayson,  Estabutchie,  Miss. 

SCRIPTURE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter  (Judges  5  :25),  three  cupsful  of  flour  (1  Kings 
4:22),  two  cupsful  of  sugar  ( Jeremiah  <>:  20) ,  two  cupsful  of  raisins  (I 
Samuel  30-12),  two  cupsful  of  figs  (I  Samuel  30:12),  a  half  cupful  of 
water  (Genesis  24:17),  one  cupful  of  almonds  (Genesis  43:11),  six 
eggs  (Isaiah  10:14),  one  teaspoonful  of  honey  (Exodus  16:31),  pinch 
of  salt  (Leviticus  11:13),  spices  to  taste  (I  Kings  10:10),  two  tea- 
gpoonsfui  of  baking  powder  (Amos  4:5)  ;  beat  well  (Prov.  23:14). — 
Tinnie  Williams,  Florence,  Miss. 

SEA  FOAM  CAKE 
Five  well-beaten  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cupful  of 
butter,  four  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
in  the  flour,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  flavored  with  extract  of  lemon. 
Bake  in  layers.  Sea  foam  filling :  Take  four  cupsful  of  brown  sugar, 
put  in  saucepan  with  two  cupsful  of  water.    Cook  until  it  will  harden 


CAKES 


when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Have  ready  the  whites  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Pour  this  over  the  eggs,  beat  until  thick  and  creamy, 
then  spread  on  cake. — Miss  Janie  Harrington,  Coles  Mill,  N.  O. 

POOR  MAN'S  CAKE 
One  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  other  extract,  two  teaspoonsful 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  together  the  egg  and  sugar  till  light,  add  milk, 
then  the  melted  butter  and  extract.  Sift  the  flour  aDd  baking  powder 
twice,  add  the  liquid  mixture  to  them  and  beat  well.  Bake  forty-five 
minutes  iu  a  moderate  oven. — Miss  Eula  Wilder,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

PORK  FRUIT  CAKE 
One  pound  of  wholly  fat  pork,  either  ground  or  chopped  until  there 
are  neither  lumps  nor  strings  left,  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  cloves 
and  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of 
citron,  flour  enough  to  make  slightly  stiff  batter.  It  is  better  to  bake  a 
patty  test  cake  and  avoid  too  much  flour.— M.  M.  Taylor,  Louisiana. 

IRISH  POTATO  NUT  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  one  cupful  of  nuta, 
one  cupful  of  potatoes,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half 
cake  of  chocolate,  four  eggs,  white  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  allspice,  two  rounded  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder. — May  Little, 
Kennedale,  Texas. 

POTATO  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  white  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
mashed  Irish  potatoes,  one  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  a  half  cupful  of 
grated  chocolate,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
cloves,  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  flour. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Brye,  Eilliard,  Fla. 

METROPOLITAN  CAKE 
Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  miik,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  three  cupsful  of  flour, 
five  §ggs.  Mix  and  divide  in  halves  ;  bake  one-half  in  two  layers  ;  one 
cupful  of  raisins,  a  fourth  pound  of  citron,  one  cupful  of  currants,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  syrup  or  jelly,  two  teaspoonsful  of  spice  and  cloves 
ground  together,  and  one  nutmeg.  Put  all  together  with  icing  made  of 
one  egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  let  stand  several  days. — Mrs. 
Lydia  Wood.  Oglesby,  Texas. 

NEAPOLITAN  CAKE 
Light  part :  One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter, 
a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  four  whites 
of  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Dark  part :  One  cupful  of 
sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  yolks  of  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  raisins,  two  and  a 
half  cupsful  of  flour.  Ice  top  and  sides. — Miss  Nell  Cook,  Vicksburg, 
Mi*8. 

NEVER-FAILING  CAKE 
Two  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  lard,  a  half  cupful  of  cold  water,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoons- 
ful of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  the  flour,  one  spoonful  of  vanilla ;  bake 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


in  loaf  and  serve  with  chocolate  sauce.  Chocolate  sauce :  One  capful  of 

boiling  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  square  of  bitter  chocolate,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  the  consistency  of  maple  syrup. 
Just  before  serving  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Serve  hot.  Slice 
cake,  place  on  saucers,  pour  the  sauce  over.  The  sauce  will  keep  indefi- 
nitely and  may  be  reheated. — Mes.  L.  E.  Spalding,  Blum,  Texas. 

NOVELTY  CAKE 
Mix  two  cupsful  of  sugar  (powdered),  three-fourths  of  a  cupful  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder,  and  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Bake  two  layers  of  this  mix- 
ture and  add  to  the  remaining  batter  the  following :  A  half  teaspoonful 
of  allspice,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  currants,  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  and 
one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  citron.  Bake  this  in  one  layer  and  place  be- 
tween the  two  white  layers,  using  icing  for  filling,  —  Mrs.  D.  D.  Mc- 
Call,  Pushmataha,  Ala. 

DONE-OVER  CAKE 
Slice  the  cake  (several  kinds  may  be  used),  place  layer  in  serving 
bowl,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  bananas,  and  so  on,  till  the  bowl  is  nearly 
filled.  Make  a  plain  boiled  custard  and  pour  over  all.   Serve  hot  in  win- 
ter and  cold  in  summer. — Mes.  J.  Edna  White,  Kempner,  Texas. 

DROP  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  and  a 
third  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder ;  enough  flour 
to  make  thick  batter.  Drop  from  spoon  in  well-greased  pan. — Mes. 
Emily  H.  Livingston,  McComb,  Miss. 

EGGLESS  BLACK  CAKE 
A  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  half  cupful  of  sour  milk, 
two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two- thirds  cupful  of  dried  apples  (pre- 
viously cooked  and  pressed  through  a  sieve  and  sweetened  to  taste)  ;  use 
all  kinds  of  spices,  mix  well,  and  bake  in  a  loaf. — Mes.  Flobence  Mo- 
Duff,  Winnsboro,  La. 

EGGLESS  LAYER  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one-fourth  cupful  of 
butter  or  good  lard,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two  and  a  half 
cupsful  of  flour ;  flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  layers.  Filling  :  One  cup- 
ful of  sugar  and  two  or  three  tablespoonsful  of  cream,  let  cook  till  it  will 
harden  when  dropped  on  a  saucer,  then  fill  in  cake. — F.  O.  Jones,  Mc- 
Call  Creek,  Miss. 

GREEN  CORN  CAKE 
Grate  green  corn  from  the  cob,  and  allow  an  egg  and  a  half  for  every 
cupful,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  milk ;  beat  the  eggs  well,  add  the 
corn  by  degrees,  beating  very  hard ;  salt  to  taste.  Put  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  to  every  pint  of  corn,  stir  in  the  milk  and  thicken  with  flour — 
say  a  tablespoonful  for  every  two  eggs.  You  may  fry  in  hot  lard,  as  you 
would  fritters,  or  cook  upon  a  griddle  like  batter  cakes. — Mes.  H.  O. 
Kieton,  Rome,  Oa. 

GENTLEMAN'S  FAVORITE  CAKE 
Seven  eggs,  beaten  separately,  three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  two 
cupsful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cold  water,  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  powder,  three  cupsful  of  flour.    Filling:  One  cupful  of 


CAKES 


165 


jftjgsr,  grated  lemon  rind,  three  or  four  grated  apples,  one  egg.  Boil  and 
put  together  cold. — Vivian  Brantley,  Minden,  La. 

EGOLESS,  MILKLESS,  BUTTERLESS  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  two  cupsful  of  raisins,  a 
half  cupful  of  lard,  a  fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Mix 
and  boil  three  minutes.  When  cold,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dis- 
solved 10  one  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  and  two  cupsful  of  flour. — Mas.  J.  C.  Smith,  Sanford,  Fla. 

DARK  CAKE 

One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
sour  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one 
cake  of  chocolate,  two  eggs,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder. — Mrs.  V.  S.  Staneart,  Grand  Cane,  La. 

FRENCH  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  milk, 
a  half  cupful  of  corn-starch,  one  cupful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten.  Make  the  dark  part 
same  as  the  white,  using  a  half  cupful  of  grated  chocolate  in  place  of 
corn-starch,  and  yolks  of  four  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  four 
layers  and  put  together  with  any  good  white  frosting. — Jennie  H.  Hol- 
man,  St.  Matthew*,  S.  C. 

QUICK  CAKE 

Break  the  eggs  into  mixing  bowl  without  separating,  stir  a  little,  then 
add  the  sugar  and  beat  thoroughly  before  stirring  in  the  butter,  which 
has  been  warmed  enough  to  melt  it,  then  add  the  milk  and,  lastly,  the 
flour,  stirring  until  batter  is  smooth.  Line  baking  pans  with  waxed  pa- 
pei ;  it  requires  no  greasing. — Mrs.  R.  T.  Steele,  Wagram,  N.  O. 

CAKE  WITHOUT  BUTTER  OR  EGGS 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  cream,  four  cupsful  of 
flour,  two  small  teaspoonsful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  one  cup- 
ful of  currants  or  chopped  raisins.  Sour  milk  or  buttermilk  may  be 
used,  but  must  not  be  very  sour ;  small  pieces  of  butter  may  be  added, 
but  it  is  good  without. — Mrs.  Jno.  Purvis,  Stephenville,  Texas. 

CAKE  WITHOUT  BUTTER 
Break  four  eggs  in  a  bowl,  beat  well  till  very  light  and  foamy,  add 
two  cupsful  of  sugar  and  beat  again.  Measure  two  cupsful  of  flour  be- 
fore sifting,  add  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  and  sift  into  the 
eggs  the  sugar,  mixing  thoroughly  and  beating  well ;  add  one  cupful  of 
hot  milk,  gradually,  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  loaf,  or  bake  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  lemon  filling.  Lemon  filling :  One  cupful 
of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  large  or  two  small  lemons,  one 
egg,  well  beaten,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  flour,  a  half  cupful  of  water.  Mix  the  flour  in  the  lemon  juice  or 
water.  Cook  till  thick  and  spread  between  layers.  Orange  and  pine- 
apple filling  are  made  the  same  way  by  using  less  or  no  water, — Mrs. 
Eula  M.  Baker,  Bluff  Springs,  Fla. 

BUTTERLESS  CAKE  BATTER  —  SPONGE  CAKE 
Three  cupsful  of  flour,  sifted  in  the  tray ;  mix  thoroughly  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  good  baking  powder,  two  cupsful  of  white  granulated  sugar, 
melted  with  a  cupful  of  boiling  water,  four  eggs,  beaten  separately ;  add 


166 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


the  yolk  to  the  melted  sugar,  then  add  a  capful  of  creamy  sweet  milk, 
then  the  prepared  flour,  and  last,  the  stiff  whites,  and  your  favorite 
flavoring.  The  batter  should  be  real  thin. — Mas.  A.  N.  Smith.  Tusca- 
loosa, Ala. 

COCOANUT  MACAROONS 
Six  eggs,  whites  beaten  very  stiff,  with  a  pinch  of  salt  added ;  then 
add  a  half  pound  of  granulated  sugar.    Beat  again,  then  add  a  half 
pound  of  cocoanut.   Drop  same  on  paper  and  bake  in  a  warm  oven.— 
Mrs.  Jas.  McNab,  Douglas,  Ga. 

NUT  MACAROONS 
Mix  thoroughly  a  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  the  whites  of  an  egg 
whipped  light,  and  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar.   Form  this  mixture  into 
small  balls  and  set  them  on  buttered  paper,  in  a  cool  oven,  for  three- 
fourths  of  an  hour. — Miss  Olive  R.  Pickett,  Fitzpatrick,  Ala. 

CREAM  PUFFS 
To  make  one  dozen  puffs :  One  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs  (beat  well), 
one  scant  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  cupful  of  flour.  Beat  together  for 
five  minutes  and  bake  in  quick  oven  in  gem  pans.  Cream :  A  half  pint 
of  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  flour,  two  eggs.  Stir  flour 
in  a  little  milk  and  put  remainder  of  milk  on  the  stove.  When  hot,  add 
sugar,  eggs  and  flour ;  cook  until  thick ;  flavor  with  vanilla.  When 
both  are  cool,  open  tops  of  puffs  and  fill  with  the  cream. — Mrs.  Frank 
Dorland,  Anona,  Fla. 

JUMBLES 

One-half  cupful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  pint  of  flour ;  flavor  with  vanilla, 
lemon,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon ;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  break  eggs  into 
this,  add  flavoring,  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to 
sugar,  butter  and  egg  mixture  ;  turn  out  on  well-floured  board  and  knead 
to  a  soft  dough.  Roll  only  a  third  of  dough  at  a  time.  Roll  thin,  cut  out 
with  a  doughnut  cutter  and  bake  in  well-greased  pans  in  a  rather  quick 
oven.  These  cakes  are  light,  crisp  and  are  delicious  to  serve  with  cream, 
lemonade  or  for  tea.  They  are  not  too  sweet  and  are  easily  digested ; 
babies  can  eat  them  with  impunity,  and  if  kept  in  a  tin  can  they  remain 
fresh  and  crisp  for  a  month  or  more. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Matheson,  Bennetts- 
ville,  S.  G. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

One  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cupful  of  raisins  or  currants,  three  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  a 
cupful  of  strong  cold  coffee,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  tea- 
spoonsful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Bake  about  one  hour. 
— Mrs.  A.  J.  Prater,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

COFFEE  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cupful  of  strong  coffee  as  prepared  for  the  table,  four  eggs,  a 
teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoons- 
ful of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  two  pounds  of  raisins, 
two  pounds  of  currants,  one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  four  cupsful  of  flour. 
Fruit  to  be  added  last;  sprinkle  with  part  of  the  flour. — Mrs.  John 
Snyder,  Athens,  Tenn. 

COFFEE  CAKE 
Take  a  piece  of  lightbread  dough  size  of  large  loaf,  knead  into  this 
two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs  (one  cupful  of  cur- 
rants, if  desired)  ;  mix  all  together,  kneading  in  sufficient  flour  to  work 


CAKES 


167 


well.  Let  rise,  divide  in  three  parts,  roll  to  one  inch  thick,  lay  in  baking 
pan,  let  rise  until  one  and  one-half  inches  thick,  butter  top.  spritikle  with 
BUgar  and  cinnamon,  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  ;  let  cool  and  serve  for 
breakfast  with  coffee. — Mbs.  Tiieo.  Jockesch.  Greensboro,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES  — THREE  WAYS  OF  MAKING 
First :  Sift  some  flour,  make  in  this  an  opening  for  two  cupsful  of 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard  or  cottolene,  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  fresh  buttermilk, 
two  well-beaten  eggs.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Always  melt  lard  or  cotto- 
lene. Never  work  dough  until  it  is  stiff.  Knead  in  only  enough  flour  to 
enable  to  roll  out  and  cut  Sometimes  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  pow- 
der and  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  may  be  used  instead  of  the  soda  and  but- 
termilk. Second :  In  strawberry  time  this  recipe  may  be  used  in  mak- 
ing strawberry  short  cake.  Bake  layers  in  large  biscuit  pan,  turn  out  on 
cloth  ;  have  ready  a  large,  flat  dish,  place  on  this  a  layer,  and  over  this 
spread  the  crushed  and  sweetened  strawberries,  then  another  layer  and 
berries,  until  the  cake  is  as  large  as  desired.  Third :  Put  in  all  ingredi- 
ents as  for  tea  cakes,  then  put  in  a  boxful  of  seeded  raisins ;  with  the 
hand  stir  round  and  round  lightly  until  all  are  mixed,  roll  out,  cut  and 
bake ;  the  stove  must  be  just  right — Mbs.  J.  P.  Jones,  Calhoun,  Oa. 

TEA  CAKES 

Four  cup6ful  of  flour,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  scant  cupful 
of  buttermilk,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  butter  or  lard 
the  size  of  an  egg ;  knead  well,  roll  a  half  inch  thick.  Cut  in  cakes  and 
bake  in  quick  oven. — Maby  Webb,  Fulton,  Miss. 

TEA  CAKES 

Two  heaping  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  or  a  little  more  of  but- 
ter, a  little  lard,  a  scant  cupful  of  buttermilk,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  four  or  more  eggs.  Make  in  a  dough,  roll  thin, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Any  flavoring  desired  may  be  used. 
— Mbs.  W.  C.  McMubby,  Canon,  Oa. 

TEA  CAKES 

Four  eggs,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  water,  three  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  flour  enough  to  make  as  soft  as  can  be  han- 
dled. Dissolve  the  soda  and  baking  powder  in  the  water. — Mas.  O.  F. 
Rushing,  Montgomery,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  melted  butter,  creamed 
together;  also  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  (or  favorite  flavoring).  Beat  all  together, 
sieve  the  flour  and  use  this  mixture  to  make  it  into  a  moderately  stiff 
dough,  roll  out  and  cut  out  with  a  cup  or  anything  preferred.  Don't  use 
milk  or  water  with  this  ;  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mbs.  Ethel  Ratnob,  Cot- 
to  i-J'ile,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder ;  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. — Mbs.  J.  Eldeb, 
Oxford,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES 

Four  eggs  (beat  the  yolks  and  whites  separately),  three  cupiful  of 
tufar.  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  baking  powder  in  three  pints  of  flour ;  flavor  with  lemon.  a 
and  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mbs.  H.  J.  Gbaulee,  Dora,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES 

Beat  two  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar  very  light,  add  a  halt  il 
of  sour  cream  in  which  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been  di  1 
Sift  one  quart  of  flour  in  bread  tray  and  pour  batter  into  it,  adding  iard 
size  of  an  egg.  Work  it  all  together  until  it  is  a  smooth  dough.  Roll 
out  and  bake. — Mbs.  John  McDowell,  Vernon,  La. 

TEA  CAKES 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  lard,  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons- 
ful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  well,  roll 
out  thin,  bake  in  hot  oven. — Mbs.  J.  A.  St.  Dizieb,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

TEA  CAKES 

Six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sour  cream,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half 
cupful  of  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon 
extract,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  squares ; 
bake  in  quick  oven ;  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Serve  cold  with  coffee. — 
Mbs.  W.  J.  Abcheb,  Qlenwood,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES 

Five  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  three  cupsful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter  oil.  Mix  all  in  a  bowl  and 
make  up  dough ;  roll  thin  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  To  have  them  extra 
good,  put  some  together  with  jelly,  some  with  icing,  raisins  between,  or 
anything  you  may  have. — Mbs.  Ed.  Richabdson,  Tenaha,  Tensas. 

TEA  CAKES 

One  cupful  of  buttermilk,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  short- 
ening, one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  extract ;  flour  to  make  a  hard  dough. — Mbs.  T.  W.  Cantbell, 
Liberty,  S.  C. 

TEA  CAKES 

Two  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  one  cup- 
ful of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  ;  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Roll  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — 
Mbs.  T.  E.  Elliott,  Vincent,  Ala. 

TEA  CAKES 

Two  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  butter  and  one  of  lard,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  (if 
sweet  milk  is  used ;  if  buttermilk  or  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
and  one  of  baking  powder),  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  together  thor- 
oughly and  mix  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  medium  stiff  dough.  Roll 
to  the  thickness  of  half  an  inch.  Cut  out  with  biscuit  cutter  (or  in  fancy 
shapes),  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  to  a  light  brown  color. — Mbs.  F.  M. 
Bishop,  Holly  Springs,  Go. 

TEA  CAKES 

Cream  together  one  cupful  01  butter  and  two  cupsful  of  sugar ;  add 
four  well-beaten  eggs,  then  add  two  level  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 
sifted  with  a  little  flour ;  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  lemon  or  vanilla  ex- 
tract  Mix  well,  turn  into  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  in  bread  tray. 


CAKE£ 


169 


and  knead  into  a  soft  dough.  Roll  and  cut  out.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
— Mrs.  T.  B.  Graves,  Goldthwaite,  Texas. 

MRS.  MILLER'S  TEA  CAKES 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  beaten  to- 
gether, a  half  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  tea- 
■poonful  of  vanilla  flavoring,  three  pints  of  flour.   Mix  well. — Minnie 
H.  Francis,  Ohatchee,  Fla. 

FRUIT  TEA  CAKES 
One  pound  of  butter,  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  of  sugar,  six  eggs, 
one  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  half  cupful  of  whiskey,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  spice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  pounds  of  currants, 
two  pounds  of  raisins,  three  cupsful  of  chopped  pecans.  Add  enough 
flour  to  roll  out  easily.  Flour  the  fruit  so  it  will  be  evenly  distributed 
in  the  dough.  Roll  out  any  thickness  desired  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  on  a  thick  griddle  or  skillet— Mrs.  C.  C.  Browne,  Germania,  Mist. 

SIMPLE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  two  eggs,  a  half 
cupful  of  buttermilk  and  sweet  milk  mixed,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  and 
lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the  sugar  and 
shortening,  add  one  egg  at  a  time ;  pour  in  milk,  then  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  and  one  cupful  of  raisins.  Bake. — Mas. 
Edith  Turner.  Coivpens,  8.  C. 

FEDERAL  CAKE 
Five  cupsful  of  flour,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  a 
half  pound  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonsful  of 
baking  powder,  four  eggs,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  English 
walnuts  (chopped),  four  tablespoonsful  of  whiskey,  one  grated  nutmeg. 
— Mrs.  J.  G.  Williams,  Whitehouse,  Fla. 

PRINCESS  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  six  eggs,  four  cupsful  of 
flour,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking 
powder.  Filling :  A  half  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar, 
pulverized  is  best  Whip  until  light,  then  add  mashed  bananas. — Amy 
E.  Spare,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

PRINCE  OF  THE  WALK  CAKE 
Cream  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  fourth  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  the  well-beaten  whites  of 
three  eggs,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers. 
Dark  part :  Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
butter,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  cupful  of  seeded  raisins,  chopped  fine, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon,  mixed  with  the  dark  part.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling:  One  and 
a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg,  a  half  of  a 
grated  cocoanut,  and  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  half  lemon.  This 
is  fine. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Hoobleb,  Toicnlep,  Ala. 

OLD  RELIABLE  CAKE 
Two  eggs,  beaten  well  together,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a 
half  cupful  of  butter  (beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream),  one  cupful  of 
cold  water  or  sweet  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sifted  flour,  two 
rounded  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  sifted  through  the  flour  thor- 


170 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


oughly,  on©  teaspoonful  of  lemon,  or  any  other  flavor.  SprinkU  in  just  a 
little  salt  Beat  well  and  bake  in  loaf  or  layers. — Mrs.  E.  O.  Fisx. 
Cherokee,  g.  0. 

ROMEO  AND  JULIET  CAKE 
Light  part:  One  cupful  of  white  sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  well 
beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  flour,  one  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  four  tablespoonsfui  of  sweet  milk.  Dark 
part:  One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  yolks  of  six 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  flour,  four  tablespoonsfui  of  sweet  milk,  oue  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  separate  tins.  The  layers  being 
light  and  dark  spread  between  them  a  custard  made  with  two  eggs,  one 
pint  of  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  corn- 
starch, two  teaspoonsful  of  lemon. — Mrs.  Amos  Parker,  Ozark,  Ala. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  flour,  a  half  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one- 
fourth  cake  of  chocolate,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  each 
of  the  following :  vanilla,  cloves,  spices,  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  layers. 
Filling :  Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  one  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar.  Boil  until  it  threads,  then  add  a  fourth  pound  of  marsh- 
mallows,  stirring  until  all  dissolve.  Take  off  fire  and  add  whites  of  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Malone, 
Keener,  Ala. 

SUNFLOWER  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  whites  of  three  eggs,  a 
half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  hot  oven.  Frosting :  Yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Beat  twenty  minutes,  spread  between  layers  and  on  top. — Mrs.  J.  L. 
Smith,  Webster,  Texas. 

QUICK  CAKE 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful 
of  sweet  milk,  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  spoonful  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
in  the  flour ;  cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together,  add  the  eggs,  well 
beaten,  put  in  some  of  the  flour,  then  the  milk,  then  the  rest  of  the  flour. 
Beat  smooth  and  bake  in  skillet  like  egg-bread. — Mrs.  W.  T.  Jaudson, 
Hughes  Springs,  Texas. 

FAVORITE  CAKE 
Whites  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Cream  one  cupful  of 
butter  and  two  cupsful  of  sugar  together,  then  add  one  cupful  of  milk, 
one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar. 
Bake  in  a  loaf.  When  done,  cool  and  slice  in  layers  about  an  inch  thick. 
Sweeten  and  spread  between  one  can  of  grated  pineapple.  When  all  to- 
gether again,  ice  the  same. — Mrs.  T.  E.  Norris,  Tuscaloosa,  Ala. 

FAVORITE  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cupful  of  flour, 
three  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  eight  tablespoonsfui  of 
milk  or  water ;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Beat  sugar  and  butter  till 
creamy,  add  beaten  eggs,  then  flour,  with  baking  powder,  sifted;  last, 
milk  and  flavoring. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Bernhardt,  Olney,  Texas. 

FAVORITE  CAKE 
Cream  together  a  fourth  cupful  of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  sugar. 
Add  one  well-beaten  egg,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of 


CAKES 


171 


baking  powder  and  two  cupsful  of  flour.  Add  any  flavoring  desired  and 
beat  well.  This  is  nice  baked  in  layers  with  any  desired  filling.  It 
makes  a  very  nice  loaf  cake.  Baked  in  gem  pans,  it  makes  excellent 
gems. — Mbs.  T.  N.  Pearson,  Webster,  Texas. 

FAVORITE  CAKE 
One-half  cupful  of  butter,  one  scant  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  six  eggs, 
two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  fourth 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  grated  rind  and  strained  juice  of  one  large  orange. 
Sift  the  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour  together,  cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks,  orange  juice,  rind,  then  stir  in  the  flour,  mix 
to  a  smooth  batter.  Bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mbs.  Cabl  O.  Svendsen, 
St.  Simon  Island  Light  House,  BrunsvAck,  Get. 

CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter  (beat  sugar  and  butter  to 
a  cream),  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  and  a 
half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  good  baking  powder  sifted  in 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  flavoring.  Bake  in  layers ;  this  amount  makes 
a  large  stack  cake.  A  delicious  white  loaf  can  be  made  by  this,  using  the 
whites  of  seven  eggs. — Mbs.  John  Pubvis,  Stephenville,  Texas. 

CAKE 

One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  half  pound  of  butter.  Cream 
filling :  Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  small  piece  of  butter. 
Cook  until  thickened,  being  careful  not  to  scorch. — Mas.  D.  B.  Mont- 
gomeby,  Moreland,  Ga. 

CAKE 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
one  cupful  of  corn-starch,  two  cupsful  of  twice  sifted  flour,  the  whites 
of  eight  eggs,  and  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Any  filling  de- 
sired.— Mbs.  John  McDowell,  Vernon,  La. 

CAKE 

Five  eggs,  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of 
milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  eggs 
well,  add  sugar,  stir  well,  then  add  milk  and  butter ;  stir  again,  add  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  batter,  adding  baking  powder  with  flour.  Bake  in  layers 
and  fill  with  apples. — Mrs.  Lena  Bbyan,  Osyka,  Miss. 

CAKE 

Thoroughly  mix  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Do  not  stir  the  mixture  again  until  flour  is  added.  Break  in  one  or  two 
eggs  without  beating,  add  two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  sift  well  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  with  one  and  two-thirds  cupsful  of  flour.  Add 
to  the  sugar,  eggs  and  milk  one  teaspoonful  of  any  flavoring  desired. 
Stir  one  minute. — Susan  O'Eeert,  Trilby,  Fla. 

CAKE 

Six  eggs,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  cupsful  of 
flour,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. — Mb*. 
Lotto  Porter,  St.  George,  S.  C. 

CAKE 

Cream  a  half  pound  of  butter  with  one  pound  of  sugar  till  thoroughly 
creamed,  add,  one  at  a  time,  till  you  have  used  six  eggs  (boat  in  each  *at 


172 


favorite  southern  recipes 


well  before  using  another),  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  one  pound 
of  flour  which  has  had  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  sifted  in ;  flavor  to  suit — Mrs.  C.  O,  Kagg,  Perry,  Go. 

CAKE 

Cream  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar  with  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  add 
one  cupful  of  molasses  with  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  it,  two 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  currants,  one  cupful  of  finely  sliced  citron,  a  half 
package  of  mince  meat,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract,  one  cupful  of 
rich  buttermilk  and  three  cupsful  of  well-sifted  flour.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ately heated  oven  in  two-inch  deep  pans.  This  cake  keeps  for  months  in 
cool  weather.— Mes.  J.  F.  Sigmon,  Weirsdale,  Fla. 

CAKE 

Eight  eggs,  four  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cupsful  of  water,  four  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder,  six  cupsful  of  flour,  one  cupful  of  butter  or 
lard  and  butter  mixed.  Bake  in  loaf  or  layers.  For  the  filling  use  :  One 
pint  of  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  corn-starch,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  butter.  Thicken  milk  with  starch,  add  sugar,  and  boil  till 
thick  as  corn-starch  pudding.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon  extract- 
Miss  N.  Conn,  Long  Beach,  Mi%8. 

ENGLISH  SCONES 
Two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  cupful  of  milk.  Make  as  you  would  biscuits,  roll  out  and 
cut  triangular.  They  are  delicious  to  serve  with  tea  in  the  evening. — 
Mbs.  C.  H.  Hudson,  Bay  Minette,  Ala. 

VANILLA  FILLING 
Break  the  white  of  one  large  egg  and  gradually  beat  into  it  one  cup- 
ful of  confectionery  sugar ;  beat  for  three  minutes,  add  a  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla  extract,  and  spread  thinly  on  the  cakes, — Miss  Annie 
Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla. 

FILLING  WITHOUT  EGGS 
One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  five  tablespoonsful  of  milk  ;  then  stir 
until  melted ;  boil  five  minutes,  and  stir  until  cold.   Put  on  cake  while 
it  still  runs. — Sallie  J.  Cabmical,  Turin,  Ga. 

FILLING 

Boil  two  cupsful  of  sugar  in  two-thirds  cupful  of  water  until  the 
threading  stage  is  reached.  Then  have  ready  a  half  cupful  of  sugar 
melted,  and  while  still  on  stove  in  melted  condition  pour  into  it 
the  boiling  sugar,  stirring  to  prevent  lumping.  Pour  slowly  into  stiffly- 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  beating  constantly. — Mbs.  Maby  Sams, 
Rockwall,  Texas. 

FILLING  FOR  CAKE 
A  half  cupful  of  perfectly  fresh  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar  and 
one  teaspoonful  of  butter.    Boil  until  it  ropes.    Take  off  fire  and  beat 
rapidly  until  it  cools.   Have  ready  one  cupful  of  pecans,  run  through  a 
food  chopper ;  stir  in  rapidly. — Mbs.  J.  B.  E.  Ebwin,  Fairmount,  Qa. 

FILLING  FOR  CAKE 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  of  cream  stirred  till  sugar 

dissolves ;  boil  two  or  three  minutes ;  take  off  the  store,  add  one  table* 


FILLINGS  FOR  CAKE 


173 


tpoonful  of  butter.  Flavor;  stir  a  few  minute*,  and  spread  between 
cake. — Mas.  S.  H.  Marshall,  Carrollton,  Hist. 

LEMON  CHEESE  FILLING 
Take  two  lemons,  the  juice  and  grated  rind,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a 
half  cupful  of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  sugar.  Mix  together,  place  on 
the  stove  and  cook  the  mixture  till  as  thick  as  sponge,  stirring  con- 
stantly, so  it  will  thicken  as  it  is  cooked.  Use  like  jelly  between  layers. 
— Mas.  J.  H.  McAnn,  Jacksboro,  Texas. 

CARAMEL  FILLING 
Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  creamed  together  with  a  half  cupful  of 
butter  and  a  half  cupful  of  sour  cream.    Cook  till  thick  and  stir  con- 
stantly.  You  may  add  any  kind  of  nuts,  just  before  taking  off  the  stove, 
If  you  wish. — Mas.  Dave  Oatts,  Rankin,  Ky. 

CARAMEL  FILLING 
Mix  one  and  a  fourth  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  a  fourth  cupful  of 
white  sugar,  and  one-third  cupful  of  boiling  water.  Bring  to  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped  from  a  spoon. 
Pour  slowly  on  to  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  until  the  mix- 
ture is  nearly  cool,  then  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
slightly  granular  arourd  edge  of  dish.  Add  one  cupful  of  walnut  meats 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. — Miss  Maude  Woodward,  Jonesville,  Va. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING 
Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  very  light,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
•ugar,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  six  tablespoonsful  of  grated  chocolate, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  mix  all  together  and  cook  till  thick. — Mas. 
C  E.  Whatley,  Towns,  Oa. 

CREAM  FILLING 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  cream,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Let  boil  until  thick  as  honey.    Spread  between  layers. — Mrs.  Nora 
Jones,  Piedmont,  S.  C. 

ICING 

Three  eggs,  whites  beaten  very  lightly  ;  add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and 
beat  again,  then  set  vessel  in  boiling  water  and  remove  to  back  of  stove 
until  cake  is  done.  Spread  on  cake  while  hot.  This  will  be  enough  for 
one  large  cake  or  two  small  ones. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Whatley,  Towns,  Oa. 

ICING 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  water ;  boil  together  until 
it  will  string.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  white  of  one  egg, 
which  has  been  beaten  stiff ;  stir  all  together  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon.  Apply  when  the  cakes  are  cold. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Akins,  Barnes- 
ville,  Ga. 

BOILED  ICING 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonsful  of  water.  Boil 
until  waxy  or  threads,  add  to  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten.  Flavor 
to  taste. — Mrs.  A.  Penn,  Bolton,  Miss. 

BOILED  ICING 
Whites  of  three  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk  warm 
water,  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  butter  size  of  a  pea,  a  teaspoonful  of 
corn-starch.    Boil  water,  sugar,  vinegar,  butter  and  starck  together 


174 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


until  it  threads  when  dropped  from  a  fork,  take  off  the  fire  and  pour  over 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  eggs. — Miss  Saba  Hexdebsox,  Griffin,  Ga. 

CARAMEL  ICING  OR  CANDY 
In  a  vessel  place  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  it  melt,  stirring  suffi- 
ciently to  keep  from  burning.  In  another  vessel  have  three  cupsful  of 
sugar  and  two  cupsful  of  milk ;  let  it  be  boiling  while  sugar  is  melting. 
When  it  is  melted,  pour  the  milk  and  sugar  into  it  gradually,  stirring 
constantly.  Continue  stirring  and  when  nearly  done,  put  in  a  lump  of 
butter,  size  of  an  egg.  If  there  is  no  butter  to  spare,  put  in  a  pinch  of 
■alt  Test  to  see  if  done  by  dropping  a  little  in  cold  water  or  stirring  a 
small  quantity  on  a  saucer.  Add  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins  and 
pecans,  if  desired.  For  candy,  just  cook  a  little  longer.  Stir  as  little  as 
possible  after  removing  from  fire ;  pouring  onto  a  buttered  dish  or  mar- 
ble slab  is  better.  Cut  into  squares. — Miss  Olive  R.  Pickett,  Fitz- 
patrick,  Ala. 

NEYER-FAIL  ICING 
Allow  one  cupful  of  sugar  to  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  whites  stiff 
and  pour  in  double  boiler,  and  add  sugar,  stirring  constantly  for  ten 
minutes.  Then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  orange  or  lemon  juice,  which 
makes  it  harden,  and  spread  while  hot  on  cake.  Always  ice  cakes  while 
they  are  warm. — Miss  Dora  McKexzie,  Wewahitchka,  Fla. 

SAUCE  FOR  CAKE 
Two  pints  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten  light-,  six  table- 
spoonsful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  mixed  thoroughly 
with  the  sugar.  Put  all  into  a  double  boiler,  and  stir  constantly  until  it 
is  thick.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  well-beaten  whites.  Put  on  ice 
to  cool,  serve  in  sauce  dishes  with  whipped  cream  on  top  of  each  dish. 
It  is  also  nice  when  frozen,  served  in  glasses  wirh  strawberries  or  any 
fruit  in  season. — Miss  Cablie  I.  Walker.  Sugar  Tree.  Tenn. 

SNOWFLAKE  SAUCE 
One  cupful  of  white  sugar,  creamed  with  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  butter ;  thicken  one  cupful  of  boiling  milk  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
corn  starch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk ;  cook  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly ;  when  cold,  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  Maraschino  cherries,  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar,  then  cut  and  fold  in  the  white  of  one  egg, 
beaten  very  stiffly. — Mrs.  J.  S.  Taylor,  Siberian,  Ga. 

GOLDEN  SAUCE 
Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  in  the  pan  you  are  going  to  make  the 
sauce  in.  Add  one  cupful  of  cold  water,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter.  Let  boil  and  pour  in  a  pitcher,  and  add  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  It  is  then  ready  to  serve. — Abigail  M. 
Hex  by,  Gunter smile,  Ala. 

KITCHEN  BOUQUET 
Put  a  half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  in  saucepan  over  fire,  stirring 
as  it  melts.  It  is  done  when  it  smokes  and  is  dark  brown  in  color.  Then 
pour  on  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water  and  set  back  where  it  will  simmer 
until  dissolved  and  is  about  as  thin  as  syrup.  Put  in  bottle  or  jelly  glass, 
cover  and  set  away  for  use.  May  be  used  for  flavoring  cakes,  caramel, 
ice  cream  and  custards. — Mrs.  Fraxk  Lixdsey,  Long  Beach,  Miss. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard,  one  cupful  of 
sweet  milk  or  water,  one  egg.  two  teaspoonsful  of  vanilla  extract,  two 


COOKIES 


175 


teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out  and  cut ; 
sprinkle  sugar  on  top  of  each  cookie  before  beking.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
— Mbs.  Willis  L.  Lyon,  Whitehouse,  Fla. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a  half  cupful 
of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  euough  flour  for  soft  dough.  Use 
vanilla  flavoring ;  roll  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Miss  Annie 
Nelson,  Harbor  Yietc,  Fla. 

THIN  RICH  COOKIES 
One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  well  beaten, 
one  teaspoonful  ot  baking  powder;  flavor  to  suit  and  just  enough  flou~ 
to  mix  a  thin  dough.    Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly.— MRS.  Sam  W. 
Floubnoy,  Elk  City,  Okla. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  oatmeal  (raw),  two  cupsful  of  flour,  one  and  a  fourth 
cupsful  of  lard,  three-fourths  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  a  cupful  of  chipped 
raisins,  a  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  a  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda,  five  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  milk  or  water,  two  well-beaten 
eggs ;  drop  from  spoon  and  bake ;  do  not  grease  pans.  Add  nuts  if  de- 
sired.— Mbs.  Willis  L.  Lyon,  Whitehouse,  Fla. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 
One  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  four 
tablespoonsful  of  buttermilk,  one  cupful  of  chopped  raisins,  two  cupsful 
of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg.  Stir  in  two  cupsful  of  oat- 
meal, drop  from  a  spoon  on  buttered  pan.  Bake  in  hot  oven.  Lard  may 
be  used  instead  of  butter. — Miss  R.  M.  Cokseb,  Grand  Saline,  Texas. 

CREAM  COOKIES 
Two  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  shortening,  one  cupful 
of  sour  cream,  salt,  nutmeg,  two  even  teaspoonsful  of  soda.    Mix  in 
sifted  flour  until  they  will  keep  their  shape.    Bake  in  quick  oven. — 
Maby  Setzleb,  Renno,  S.  C. 

SOFT  COOKIES 
One  heaping  cupful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  three  tablespoonsful  of  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder ;  flavor  to  suit  taste,  and  use  enough  flour  to  make  dough 
so  it  can  be  rolled.  Roll  thin  and  bake  quickly. — Mbs.  Sam  W.  Floub- 
noy,  Elk  City,  Okla. 

GEORGIA  CANE  SYRUP  COOKIES 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  syrup,  three  tablespoonsful  of  sweet  milk, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  This  will  make  twelve  cakes  cooked  in  muffin  rings, 
and  is  delicious  with  sweet  milk  and  sugar. — Mbs.  J.  B.  Pittman,  Serrv- 
derMville,  Ga. 

MOUNT  AIRY  COOKIES 
Six  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt    Mix  into  a  stiff  dough.    Roll  thin,  cut  and  place  in 
greased  biscuit  pans ;  prick  with  fork  three  times  in  center.  Bake 


178 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPEi 


quickly.  These  cookies  may  be  kept  for  weeks  to  advantage*— Mbs. 
Judson  McConnell,  Mt.  Airy,  Ga. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES 
One  capful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  lard,  one  and  a  half  tea- 
spoonsful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
flour  to  make  stiff  dough.  Roll,  cut  and  bake  in  hot  oven,  taking  care 
not  to  scorch. — Mrs.  R.  H.  Hall,  Webster,  Fla. 

GOOD  COOKIES 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  lard  or  butter,  a  half  cupful  of 
sour  milk,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  and  a  little  baking  powder ;  add 
a  little  salt ;  just  enough  flour  to  roll.  Use  any  kind  of  flavoring  desired. 
— Miss  Claba  Schbiefeb,  Perry,  La. 

GINGER  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  molasses,  two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
lard  or  butter,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  half  cupful  of 
boiling  water,  one  egg,  two  teaspoonsful  of  ginger.    Mix  as  hard  as 
bread. — Mrs.  Fbank  Koop,  Yanderbilt,  Texas. 

GINGER  COOKIES 
One  cupful  of  molasses,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one-third  cupful  of 
butter  or  drippings,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  level  teaspoon- 
ful of  soda  dissolved  in  three  tablespoonsful  of  water,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
one  egg,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough. 
Mix  well.— Mbs.  G.  W.  Dean,  Gause,  Texas. 

GINGER  COOKIES 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one- 
half  cupful  of  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  to  roll  out,  and 
ginger  to  taste. — Mbs.  B.  F.  Sattebwhite,  Oakhurst,  Texas. 

DROP  COOKIES 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
rich  sour  cream,  one-fourth  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
ana  a  half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. — M.  M.  Taylor,  Louisiana. 

DROP  COOKIES 
One  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar  and  a  half  cupful  of  butter  creamed, 
three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoonsful of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  nutmeg ;  drop  in  small  spoons- 
ful and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Palmer,  Grand  Bay,  Ala. 

EVERLASTING  COOKIES 
Three  pounds  of  flour,  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of 
butter,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  three  level  teaspoonsful  of  soda.  Flavor 
with  lemon,  or  caraway,  if  desired. — Mrs.  L.  D.  Baldwin,  Denaud,  Fla. 

EGGLESS  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  mix  well  together  with 
one  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder;  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  A.  B.  Andrews,  Willing- 
ton,  8.  O. 

EGGLESS  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
me  teaspoonful  o£  soda ;  flour  to  roll ;  flavoring.    Cream  butter  and 


COOKIES 


177 


sugar,  then  add  sweet  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  fla- 
voring, then  flour  to  make  moderately  stiff  dough. — Minnie  H.  Fran- 
cis, Ohatchee,  Ala. 

EGGLESS  COOKIES 
Cream  together  one  cupful  of  lard,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  a 
generous  pinch  of  salt,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  in  which  dissolve  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mbs.  W.  D.  Loughbidge,  Lafayette,  Oa. 

FRUIT  COOKIES 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  sour  cream,  two  cupsful  of  chopped  raisins,  two  teaspoons- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
add  flour ;  roll  and  cut  out  a  few  at  a  time.  Bake  in  hot  oven. — Mbs. 
C.  B.  Edwabds,  Knoxville,  Ga. 

COOKIES 

One  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two 
eggs,  about  a  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one 
teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Sour 
milk  can  be  used.  When  sour,  add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda ;  omit  the 
cream  of  tartar. — Mbs.  Jennie  Caby,  Marshall,  Texas. 

COOKIES 

Six  eggs,  four  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  lard,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  any  kind  of  flavoring  desired ;  flour  to  make 
it  stiff  enough  to  roll  out— Mbs.  Doba  Oglesbt,  DeLeon,  Texas. 

COOKIES 

One  cupful  of  lard,  one  cupful  of  syrup,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda; 
flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll  and  cut  in  cakes. — Mbs.  Frank 
Gebhabdt,  Seminole,  Ala. 

COOKIES 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  cream,  two 
eggs,  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  and  flavor  if  desired.  Mix  all  together,  then  pour  into  flour  and 
work  to  a  dough.  Roll  and  bake. — Mrs.  Abthub  Dennoss,  Plain  Deal- 
ing, La. 

VIRGINIA  RUSK 
Three  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two-thirds  cupful  of  butter,  one 
yeast  cake,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Dissolve 
yeast  in  a  little  warm  water  and  add  milk.  Keep  warm,  and  let  rise  all 
night,  work  lightly  and  mold  into  rolls.  Let  rise  again,  adding  currants 
or  raisins. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Maddox,  Elberton,  Ga. 

GINGER  SNAPS 
Boil  three  cupsful  of  syrup  two  and  a  half  minutes.  Sift  flour  enough 
for  a  stiff  dough,  add  three  level  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  three  teaspoonsful 
of  ginger,  and  three  tablespoonsful  of  lard.   Roll  as  thin  as  possible,  cut 
and  bake  in  quick  oven. — Mbs.  T.  B.  Reeves,  Lorane,  Ga. 

GINGER  DROPS 
Mix  well  together  one-half  cupful  each  of  brown  sugar,  New  Orleans 
molasses  and  butter,  add  a  teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon,  ginger 


178 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  cloves,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda  diluted  in  one  cupful  of  boiling 
water,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  muffin  rings.  When  cold, 
cover  each  cake  with  white  icing.  These  are  delicious  cakes  served  with 
anything. — Vivian  Brantley,  Minden,  La. 

GINGER  SNAPS 
One  pint  of  molasses,  one  coffee  cupful  of  lard,  one  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda,  three  teaspoonsful  of  ginger,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonsful  of 
cinnamon,  one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-third  cupful  of  hot  water, 
in  which  dissolve  the  soda.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  a  firm  dough. 
Melt  the  lard  with  the  molasses  and  while  warm  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents.— Miss  Fbeda  Neabing,  Chipley,  Fla. 

GINGER  SNAPS 
Boil  together  one  pint  of  molasses,  one  teacupful  of  lard  or  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Let  it  boil  for  about  two 
minutes,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool,  add  two  teaspoonsful  of 
soda  and  beat  all  together  thoroughly.  Add  flour  to  make  dough  as  soft 
as  can  to  roll  out  very  thin,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  They 
scorch  easily. — Miss  Ida  Tidwell,  Oneonta,  Ala. 

SNAPPING  GINGER  SNAPS 
One  pint  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  baking  soda,  one  cupful  of 
lard,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  pow- 
dered cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  cloves,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Boil  the  molasses  five  minutes  ;  remove  from  fire  and 
stir  in  the  soda,  lard,  spices  and  flour.  Set  away  till  cool,  then  roll  out 
thin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mbs.  S.  C.  Payne,  Tag,  Ark. 

SPICELETTES 

Two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  molasses,  two- 
thirds  cupful  of  drippings,  two-thirds  cupful  of  buttermilk,  two  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  one  cupful  of 
chopped  raisins,  flour  to  make  drop  batter,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  water.  Bake  in  shallow  pan ;  when  cool,  cut  into  rings. 
Ice  with  chocolate ;  garnish  with  blanched  almonds. — Pearl  L.  Ham- 
mond, Evatt,  8.  C. 

BUTTERCUPS 

Two  tablespoonsful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  yolks  of  nine  eggs, 
one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  three-fourths  cupful  of  milk,  three  cupsful  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  patty  pans  and  ice 
with  boiled  icing. — Mbs.  F.  M.  Pitts,  Anniston,  Ala. 


WAFERS 


WAFERS 


OATMEAL  WAFERS 
Three  cupsful  of  rolled  oats,  two  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  a  half  cup- 
ful of  lard,  a  half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a 
little  salt.  Grind  oats  in  food  chopper,  using  the  nut-butter  knife,  or  in 
coffee  mill.  Mix  other  ingredients  and  stiffen  with  flour,  very  stiff.  Roll 
real  thin  and  bake. — Mrs.  F.  McFarland,  Pinellas  Park,  Fla. 

VANILLA  WAFERS 
One  egg-yolk  and  white  beaten  together,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda 
dissolved  in  four  tablespoonsful  of  buttermilk,  a  half  cupful  of  butter, 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  ;  knead  well  and  roll  very 
thin.  Cut  and  bakt  in  quick  oven.  Put  in  tightly-covered  vessel  and  they 
will  not  get  soft  in  damp  weather. — Mrs.  Stella  Coleman,  Edison,  Qa. 


ISO 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


DOUGHNUTS 


DOUGHNUTS 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  buttermilk,  one  egg,  two  spoons- 
ful of  sour  cream,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
half  a  nutmeg,  grated,  and  flour  to  roll.  Make  dough  only  stiff  enough  to 
be  handled,  Fry  in  hot  fat. — Mrs.  R.  L.  Childebs,  Williston,  Fla. 


DOUGHNUTS 

One  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  lard,  one 
cupful  of  cold  water,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ;  flour  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  Roll  out  one-fourth  of  an 
inch  thick.  Cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter,  fry  to  a  light  brown  in  deep,  hot 
fat— Mrs.  T.  N.  Pearson,  Webster,  Texa*. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful 
of  baking  powder,  teaspoonful  of  lemon  flavoring,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Beat  the  egg,  add  sugar  and  water,  sift  baking  pow- 
der into  the  flour.  Mix.  Roll  dough  thin,  cut  in  round  cakes  with  bis- 
cuit tin.  Cut  hole  in  the  middle  of  each  about  the  size  of  a  thimble. 
Have  a  pan  of  fat  smoking  hot.  drop  doughnuts  into  it.  Let  them  remain 
until  brown  on  under  side,  then  turn  over;  cook  till  brown  on  other  side. 
Then  remove  from  fat  and  lay  on  a  paper  to  drain.  Be  sure  to  keep  the 
fat  very  hot — Mrs.  S.  C.  Payne,  Tag,  Ark. 

DOUGHNUTS 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  cupful  of  sour 
milk,  two  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 
the  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  and  flour  to  make  a  dough 
like  cookies — as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Have  a  few  slices  of  raw  potato 
in  the  hot  lard  and  only  fry  a  few  at  a  time,  so  as  not  to  reduce  the  tem- 
perature. These  are  fine  and  do  not  soak  the  lard. — Mes.  E.  C.  Cedab- 
holm,  Marine  Mills,  Minn. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  small  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  scant 
cupful  of  milk  ;  flour  enough  to  make  stiff,  in  which  has  been  mixed  two 
teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder. — Mrs.  W.  W.  Gray,  Clanton,  Ala. 

DOUGHNUTS 

One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk ;  let  stand  for  one 
hour,  then  add  two  tablespoonsful  of  melted  lard,  or  butter,  two  eggs, 
beaten  together,  one  and  a  half  heaping  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder ; 


DOUGHNUTS 


181 


flavor  to  suit  taste;  flour  to  make  a  stiff  loaf,  roll  thin,  cot  and  fry  in 
deep,  hot  lard.— Mbs.  R.  H.  Haul,  Webster,  Flo. 

PUFF  BALL  DOUGHNUTS 
Thre  »  eggs  and  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  cnpsful  of  milk, 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonsful  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  two  cupsful  of  flour,  or  flour 
to  make  batter  stiff  enough  to  hold  spoon  upright  Drop  by  spoonful  in 
smoking  hot  fat  and  fry  brown. — Mbs.  J.  H.  Jenkins,  Dahlonega.  Oa. 


182 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


CRACKERS 


SWEET  CRACKERS 
Three-fourths  cupful  of  butter,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  whites  of  two 
eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  warm  water.  Make  into  a  stiff  dough ; 
roll  thin  and  cut.  Prick  with  a  fork.  Put  in  greased  pans  and  bake 
quickly. — Mrs.  Jennie  Gary,  Marshall,  Texas. 

SWEET  CRACKERS 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  a  half  cupful  of  but- 
ter, one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour  enough  to  roll ;  stick  with  a  fork 
and  bake. — Mrs.  T.  J.  Hughey,  Calhoun,  Ga. 

AMMONIA  CRACKERS 
Three  tablespoonsf ul  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  two  eggs,  two  cupsful 
of  .sugar,  one  pint  of  warm  sweet  milk,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  oil  of  lemon  ;  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough.  Cream  but- 
ter and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs.  Dissolve  ammonia  in  milk  and  add  to 
the  other  ingredients.  Beat  one-half  hour,  roll  thin  and  bake. — Eliza- 
beth Booth  Parnell,  Browns,  Ala. 

GRAHAM  CRACKERS 
One  cupful  of  sweet  cream  or  butter,  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  seven  cups- 
ful of  flour,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda.   Mix  soda  and  flour,  add  cream 
with  a  little  salt,  then  add  milk.   Roll  very  thin,  cut,  and  bake  quickly ; 
allow  to  dry  thoroughly. — Mrs.  Allie  Patterson,  Santo,  Texas. 

LEMON  CRACKERS 
Three  eggs,  well  beaten,  three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  one  pint  of  lard,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  extract,  two  table- 
spoonsful  of  baking  ammonia,  dissolved  in  the  milk ;  flour  enough  to  make 
soft  dough.  Cut  round,  or  in  squares,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  These 
are  fine  and  will  keep  for  months.  Baking  ammonia  may  be  bought  at 
any  drug  store. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Heibner,  Yellow  Pine,  Ala. 


MUFFINS 


MUFFINS 


MUFFINS  OF  GOLD 
Cream  half  a  cupful  of  butter  with  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar, 
add  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth,  and  continue  to  beat  until 
mixture  is  very  light.  Then  add  half  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  six 
ounces  of  flour  sifted  with  one  ounce  of  corn-starch  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder ;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  beat  until 
smooth.  Bake  in  muffin  pans  and  frost  on  top. — Mrs.  Mynob  E.  Hen- 
dbty,  Bright,  Oa. 

HONEY  MUFFINS 
Sift  together  one  and  a  half  pints  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  bak- 
ing powder,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Work  in  two  tablespoonsful 
of  butter,  beat,  and  add  three  eggs,  one  tea  cupful  of  honey  and  a  half 
pint  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mbs.  B.  F.  Sattebwhite,  Oakhurst, 
Terat. 

MOLASSES  MUFFINS 
Two  eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  (brown  preferred),  a  half  cupful 
of  molases,  a  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  a  half  cupful  of  butter,  two  cups- 
ful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  gin- 
ger. Beat  eggs  without  separating,  add  sugar  and  molasses,  milk,  gin- 
ger, sifted  flour  with  baking  powder  added,  and  lastly,  the  melted  butter. 
This  may  be  baked  in  four  pie  plates,  cut  in  quarters  and  served  hot  with 
butter  or  a  liquid  sauce,  such  as  lemon  sauce,  or  it  may  be  baked  in  layer- 
cake  tins  and  put  together  with  any  preferred  filling;  jelly,  chocolate 
and  plain  icing  are  all  good.  If  you  have  neither  the  sweet  milk  nor  the 
butter,  substitute  cold  water  for  the  milk  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  lard 
for  the  butter. — Mbs.  J.  J.  Matheson,  Bennettsville,  8.  C. 

SWEET  POTATO  FRIED  CAKES 
Boil,  peel  and  mash  three  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes,  then  press 
them  through  a  sieve  to  be  sure  of  no  lumps.  Add  to  the  hot  mixture  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  butternut.  Beat  two  eggs  until  thick,  then 
add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  beat  until  dissolved ;  then  stir  into  the  pota- 
toes, and  when  well  mixed  add  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  cupsful  of 
flour,  with  one-half  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder  and  one  level  tea- 
spoonful of  cinnamon  or  grated  nutmeg.  Roll  out  one-half  inch  thick, 
using  as  little  flour  as  possible.  Cut  into  cakes  with  a  hole  in  the  center 
and  fry  a  rich  brown  in  deep,  smoking  hot  lard.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
as  soon  as  the  cakes  are  lifted  from  the  fat.  When  cold,  they  may  be 
rolled  in  pulverized  sugar  when  ready  to  serve,  but  not  before,  as  the 
sugar  collects  dampness  and  ruins  their  flavor. — Nettie  Boyd.  Flowery 
Branch,  Oc 


184 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


DESSERTS 


AMBROSIA 

Six  oranges,  one  cocoanut  sugar ;  peel  and  slice  oranges,  grate  the 
eocoannt ;  take  a  cut-glass  bowl,  lay  in  layer  of  oranges,  over  these 
sprinkle  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  cocoanut  and  so  on  until  the  material  is 
used,  putting  sugar  on  top.  Some  use  slices  of  bananas  and  chopped 
pineapple, — Maggie  Squybes,  Sicily  Island,  La. 

AMBROSIA 

Peel  and  slice  fresh  oranges,  one  pineapple,  sliced  thin ;  put  in  deep 
stand,  alternate  layers  of  orange,  pineapple  and  grated  cocoanut  Begin 
with  the  orange,  using  cocoanut  last  Spread  between  each  layer  finely 
powdered  sugar.  Add  sugar  to  the  cocoanut  milk  and  pour  over  the 
dish.— Mbs.  W.  Dickebson,  Lyons,  Ga. 

AMBROSIA 

Put  a  layer  of  grated  cocoanut,  one  of  oranges,  clipped  up  with  scis- 
sors, sprinkle  sugar  thickly  over  them,  then  a  layer  of  bananas,  peaches 
or  grapes.  Continue  with  cocoanut,  oranges  and  fruits,  till  you  have  the 
amount  needed  for  the  family.  Serve  in  dessert  plates  with  whipped 
cream  on  top. — Mrs.  G.  D.  Malone,  Keener,  Ala. 

APPLE  SNOW 

Take  two  cupsful  of  well  sweetened  stewed  apples,  mash  fine,  add 
white  of  one  egg,  and  beat  for  half  an  hour.  The  longer  it  is  beaten  the 
whiter  it  will  be,— Mrs.  W.  W.  Johnson,  Fruit  Hill,  8.  0. 

SPICED  APPLES 
Take  equal  parts  of  sugar  and  vinegar,  add  a  few  cloves  and  cinna- 
mon bark,  and  when  it  boils,  add  the  sweet  apples,   Let  them  remain  in 
the  syrup  until  tender,  then  tie  them  up  in  a  jar  and  they  will  keep 
nicely. — Anna  Newton,  Barnesville,  Ga. 

PICKLED  APPLES 
Pare  and  quarter  apples.  To  every  seven  pounds  of  apples  add  three 
pounds  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce 
of  cloves ;  if  spices  are  ground,  put  them  in  a  cloth  and  take  out  when 
apples  are  done.  Put  sugar  and  vinegar  over  apples  and  let  stand  over 
night  to  draw  the  juice  out  of  the  apples.  When  ready  to  cook,  add 
spices  and  cook  until  the  fruit  is  tender  and  juice  is  rather  thick. — Mas, 
Bettie  Bonds,  Blevins,  Ark. 

SCALLOPED  APPLES 
Pare,  core  and  slice  tart  apples.   Put  a  layer  of  the  sliced  apples  in 
the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish,  sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar,  a  very 
little  flour,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter ;  then  another  layer  of  apples, 
sugar,  flour  and  butter,  till  the  dish  is  fulL  Pour  in  a  very  little  water, 


DESSERTS  —  BAKED  APPLES 


18* 


just  enough  to  cover  the  bottom  of  dish ;  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake 
one  hour,  keeping  dish  closely  covered. — Mas.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Flo, 

SCALLOPED  APPLES 
One  tnblespoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  crumbs,  one  cupful  of 
chopped  apples,  two  tablespoonsful  of  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful  of  nutmeg,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful  of  lemon  rind,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Put  one-fourth  of 
the  crumbs  in  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish,  then  one-half  apples, 
sprinkle  with  one-half  sugar  and  spice.  Then  add  more  crumbs,  the  re- 
mainder of  apples,  sugar  and  spice.  Sprinkle  lemon  juice  over  this,  put 
in  the  rest  of  crumbs  and  bake  thirty-five  minutes,  or  until  it  is  done. — 
Mbs.  O.  W.  Hines,  McLeansville,  N.  C. 

BAKED  APPLES 
Take  as  many  apples  as  desired,  peel  and  core,  put  into  baking  pan. 
Fill  the  cavity  in  each  with  pecans,  sugar  and  butter.  Pour  pan  one- 
third  full  of  hot  water.  Cover  and  set  on  top  of  stove  until  it  begins  to 
boil.  Then  uncover  and  put  in  hot  oven  to  bake.  When  thoroughly  ten- 
der, serve  in  individual  dishes  with  a  teaspoonful  of  apple  jelly  on  top 
of  each. — Mbs.  J.  B.  E.  Ebwin,  Fairmount,  Oa. 

BAKED  APPLES 
Take  a  dozen  tart  apples,  wash  and  core  them,  filling  the  cavity 
with  butter,  sugar  and  bananas.    Pour  over  just  enough  water  to  keep 
them  from  getting  too  dry.    Set  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  until  well 
done. — Mbs.  Z.  D.  Duke,  Cushing,  Texas. 

BAKED  APPLES  AND  WHIPPED  CREAM 
Take  four  large  apples,  wash  and  core,  fill  them  full  of  sugar  and 
butter,  and  bake  in  a  sauce  pan  till  done.    Then  take  a  cupful  of  rich 
cream  and  whip  till  stiff ;  flavor  and  sweeten.    Spread  over  the  apples 
and  serve. — Mbs.  Willie  Mobgan,  Lockhart,  Texas. 

APPLE  BUTTER 
Pare  and  quarter  the  apples ;  cook  until  tender  in  small  quantity  of 
water.  To  three  galions  of  the  sauce  after  it  has  been  rubbed  through 
a  colander,  add  five  pounds  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of  apple  vinegar. 
Cook  two  hours.  Any  kind  of  flavoring  may  be  added  to  suit  one's  taste. 
— Mbs.  Bettie  Bonds,  Blevins,  Ark. 

APPLE  SAUCE 
Peel  and  slice  four  nice,  large  apples ;  cook  in  two  cupsful  of  water 
and  one  cupful  of  sugar  until  a  mush.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Have  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  and  beat  this  into  the  eggs,  slowly. 
Then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  or  some  good  wine. 
Serve  with  cake. — Mbs.  J.  A.  Malloy,  Smith's  Station,  Ala. 

APPLE  FLOAT 
Peel  eight  apples  and  slice.  Put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover,  and  cook  until  tender.  Then  put  them  through  a  colander 
and  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Sweeten  to  taste,  and 
3tir  in  a  trace  of  nutmeg.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs 
and  put  the  dish  on  ice.  Serve  with  whipped  or  plain  cream. — Peabl 
L.  Hammond,  Evatt,  S.  C. 

APPLE  FLOAT 
Take  one  quart  of  well-cooked  apples,  mash  fine ;  have  them  boiling 
hot ;  take  the  whites  of  five  eggs  whipped  to  a  froth,  add  to  the  apples 


186 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


just  before  taking  off  the  stove,  beat  for  a  few  minutes  with  the  egg- 
beater.  Sweeten  to  taste ;  flavor  with  lemon.  When  cold,  place  in  des- 
sert dishes  and  cover  with  a  custard  made  the  following  way :  Take  the 
five  yolks  you  had  left  from  the  float,  add  another  egg,  two  small  cups- 
ful  of  sweet  milk,  let  it  boil,  beat  the  eggs  light,  add  to  the  boiling  milk, 
beating  all  the  time  ;  sweeten  to  taste.  Flavor  with  lemon. — Mas.  L.  O. 
Ashley,  Eonea  Path,  8.  O. 

APPLE  FLOAT 
Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  till  stiff,  add  three-fourths  cupful  of 
sugar.  Beat  in  well,  then  beat  this  into  about  three  cupsful  of  steamed 
apples  slightly  sweetened.  The  apples  should  not  be  juicy,  but  cooked 
with  as  little  water  as  possible,  pressed  through  a  sieve ;  return  to  stove 
and  add  the  beaten  eggs  while  hot.  Pour  into  a  dish  Will  keep  several 
hours. — Mbs.  Lessie  H.  Foet,  Pelion,  8.  C. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 
For  six  persons,  put  into  double  boiler  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of 
sweet  milk,  add  yolks  of  three  eggs,  beaten  very  light.  Mix  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  corn-starch  or  flour  in  a  half  cupful  of  the  milk  and  stir  in 
boiler.  Add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  Let 
cook  until  it  thickens ;  set  off  and  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs  which  have 
been  beaten  stiff.  The  heat  of  custard  is  sufficient  to  cook  the  whites. 
Flavor,  and  serve  cold,  but  not  frozen.  After  it  is  put  in  dessert  dishes, 
drop  in  strawberries  rolled  in  sugar,  or  bits  of  orange. — Mbs.  Stella 
Coleman,  Edison,  Oa. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 
Scald  three  pints  of  fresh  sweet  milk,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Pour  it 
gradually  over  beaten  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  one  coffee  cupful  of  sugar, 
then  return  custard  to  the  fire.  Stir  constantly  until  the  eggs  and  sugar 
taste  done.  Pour  off  and  when  cool  flavor  with  any  desired  flavoring. 
Do  not  flavor  while  hot,  as  flavor  loses  strength.  Whip  whites  of  six 
eggs  to  stiff  froth  with  three  tablespoonsful  of  powdered  sugar.  Pour 
this  over  the  hot  custard  (after  having  cooled  it  just  a  few  minutes), 
or  you  may  place  over  boiling  water  and  heat ;  will  cook  whites  so  they 
will  not  fall ;  then  stir  in  custard. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Parker,  Roberts,  Ala. 

BOILED  CUSTARD 

Three  quarts  of  new  milk,  put  over  fire  in  double  boiler.  When  it  be- 
gins to  boil,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Break  eight  eggs  in  bowl,  leaving  out 
whites  of  four ;  put  in  two  cupsful  of  sugar  and  beat  with  fork  until 
sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  slowly  into  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Cook  until  thick  and  cool.  When  readv  to  serve,  beat  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth,  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  adding  sugar  a  spoonful  at  a  time. 
Flavor  with  vanilla;  put  spoonful  on  top  of  each  glass  of  custard. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Season,  Qurley,  Ala. 

DELICIOUS  MILK  SHAKE 
Fill  a  two-quart  fruit  jar  nearly  full  of  chipped  ice,  add  about  a  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  glassful  of  whiskey,  and  fill  with 
milk  to  two  inches  of  top  of  jar,  then  seal  jar,  and  shake  it  for  a  few 
minutes  till  it  foams,  then  pour  into  glasses  while  it  effervesces. — Daisy 
Keyton,  Wayerots,  Oa. 

STEAMED  SNOWBALLS 
One  egg,  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter, 
four  tablespoonsful  of  water,  one  cupful  of  flour,  two  teaspoonsfu!  of 


DESSERTS 


187 


baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Mix  well,  turn  into  cups  or 
pan  and  steam  for  forty  minutes.  Serve  with  any  desired  sauce. — Miss 
Olive  Pickett,  Fitzpatrick,  Ala. 

FRUIT  DESSERT 
Peel  and  slice  crosswise  six  large  bananas,  take  pulp  and  juice  of 
two  small  oranges  and  three  slices  of  pineapple,  diced  ;  mix  well ;  serve 
with  sugar  and  sweet  cream. — Mrs.  Gaines,  Bowling  Green,  Fin. 

FLOAT 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  three-fourths  pint  of 
sugar;  beat  together  till  eggs  are  smooth.  Cook  in  double  boiler  till 
thick  as  custard,  but  don't  let  boil.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  sweeten,  add  last,  while  still  on  stove,  stirring  a  very  little.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  Belle  Whitakeb,  Gibs- 
town,  Texas. 

FLOATING  ISLAND 
Place  one  quart  of  milk  in  a  sauce  pan  to  scald.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
four  eggs  until  light,  add  four  tableapoonsful  of  sugar,  beat  well,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  flour  ;  mix  thoroughly,  then  pour 
on  the  scalding  milk,  stirring  well.  Return  pan  to  the  fire  and  stir  the 
mixture  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Remove  pan  from  the  fire  and  add 
a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  stir  well,  place  in  a  baking  dish.  Beat  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  sugar 
and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  :  drop  by  spoonsful  over  the  top  of  the  cus- 
tard. Place  in  oven  and  brown  the  whites  lightly.  Serve  cold. — Mrs. 
L.  B.  Spalding,  Blum,  Texas. 

FRUIT  JELLY 

One  boxful  of  gelatine,  soak  one-fourth  of  an  hour  in  cold  water, 
then  turn  over  it  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  with  one  and  a  half  cupsful 
of  sugar,  and  let  it  cool.  Slice  three  oranges,  one  lemon,  three  bananas, 
one  6mall  pineapple,  a  pint  of  strawberries  together.  Put  in  large  bowl, 
and  when  gelatine  is  partly  cold,  pour  over  the  fruit  and  set  on  ice  or  in 
a  cool  place  till  ready  for  use.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  E.  H. 
Mason,  Casco,  Va. 

FLUFF 

Mix  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  of  corn-starch 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  moisten  with  a  little  milk  and  stir  into  one  quart 
of  milk  heated  to  the  boiling  point  Cook  four  minutes  in  double  boiler 
and  remove  from  stove.  Whip  in  the  whites  of  four  pggs,  previously 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  into  dish 
and  cool.  Serve  with  thin  boiled  custard  made  of  the  four  yolks,  one 
quart  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  half  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Do  not  cook  too  long,  or  it  will  curdle.  Cool. — Mrs.  J.  C. 
Smith,  Sanford,  Fla. 

LEMON  BUTTER 
The  juice  and  rind  of  three  lemons,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  pound 
of  sugar,  one  small  cupful  of  cold  water,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  butter. 
Beat  well  together  and  boil  five  minutes.  Keep  it  in  covered  jelly  glasses. 
—Mrs.  H.  H.  Orb,  Sisco,  Fla. 

DESSERT  CUSTARD 
For  quick  dessert,  take  three  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  whites  together, 
one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla ;  stir  all  together,  mix  in  small,  deep  pan  and  set  in  larger 
pan  of  boiling  water  (or  cook  in  double  boiler).    Set  in  stove  until  it 


188 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


thickens,  and  that  will  only  be  a  few  minutes.  Pour  in  custard  cup3  (or 
fruit  dishes)  and  serve  at  each  plate. — Mrs.  E.  M.  Hines,  Franklin,  Ga. 

FRUIT  DESSERT 
One-half  of  a  sliced  banana,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  grated  or  diced  pineapple.  Place  in  a  dessert  dish  and  put  a 
couple  of  spoonsful  of  whipped  and  sweetened  cream  on  top.  A  red 
cherry  placed  in  the  center  of  the  dish  makes  a  pretty  finish. — Miss 
Obie  Manet,  Hogansville,  Ga. 

A  CHEAP  DESSERT  PUDDING 
Break  four  fresh  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  whites,  and  beat  stiff ; 
add  slowly  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  beating  briskly.  Flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla.  Cook  in  pudding  mold  in  boiling  water  for  thirty  01 
forty  minutes.  Do  not  let  water  get  in  the  mold.  Beat  the  yolks  until 
creamy,  add  one  pint  of  rich  sweet  milk ;  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Remove  from  fire,  add  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  beating  thor- 
oughly ;  flavor.  Turn  out  pudding,  and  pour  this  sauce  over  it  Slice 
and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  S.  L.  Culver,  Deatsville,  Ala. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 
One  pint  of  fresh  or  one  can  of  grated  pineapple,  one  pint  of  sugar, 
one  lemon,  one  pint  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine.  Pare  the 
pineapple,  remove  all  the  eyes  and  pick  off  the  tender  part  with  a  fork, 
rejecting  all  the  hard  core.  Add  the  sugar,  water,  lemon  juice  and  gela- 
tine, which  should  be  first  soaked  in  cold  water,  then  dissolve  in  boiling 
water.  Freeze  as  usual. — Mrs.  T.  S.  Boothe,  Naftel,  Ala. 

LEMON  SHERBET 
One  quart  of  milk  or  cream,  two  cupsful  of  sugar  dissolved  in  the 
milk,  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  and  stirred  in  milk.   Put  in  freezer,  and 
when  about  half  frozen  add  the  juice  of  three  and  a  half  large  lemons. 
This  is  enough  to  serve  twelve  people. — Mrs.  C.  C.  Browne,  Germania, 

MiSS. 

FRUIT  SHERBET 
Chill,  in  freezer,  six  pints  of  sweet  milk  (part  sweet  and  part  cream 
is  preferable),  and  add  the  following,  which  has  been  prepared  previ- 
ously :  One  can  of  pineapple,  sliced  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  juice  of  two 
lemons,  four  large  bananas,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  two  scant  pints  of 
sugar.  Let  all  stand  together  in  a  pitcher  till  ready  to  put  in  freezer, 
then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  or  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine. 
Freeze  hard  and  serve. — Mrs.  C  W.  Burch,  Port  Gibson,  Miss. 

MILK  SHERBET 
Juice  of  three  lemons,  a  half  can  of  grated  pineapple,  two  cupsful  of 
sugar.    Put  mixture  in  freezer  and  freeze  until  mushy.    Fill  gallon 
freezer  with  rich  milk  and  freeze. — Ruby  Jennison,  Alexton,  La. 

WATERMELON  SHERBET 
Scrape  the  red  pulp  from  a  ripe  melon,  saving  all  the  juice.  To  two 
quarts  of  liquid  and  pulp,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  cupful  of 
minced  pecans.    When  partly  frozen,  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  finish  freezing. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Simmons,  Mathis,  Texas. 

APPLE  ICE 

One  quart  of  nice  stewed  ripe  apples,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with 
kmon,  One  quart  of  strong,  sweet  lemonade.  Mix  and  freeze,  just  as  it 


DESSERTS  —  ICB  CREAM 


18b 


Is,  or  one  pint  of  sweetened  cream  may  be  added,  as  it  ia  pat  in  the 
freezer,  or  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  whipped,  may  be  added. — Mrs.  L.  O. 
B  bow  he,  Tuscaloosa,  Ala. 

BOILED  ICE  CREAM 
One  can  of  condensed  milk  and  four  cans  of  water.  Let  come  to  a 
boil  and  add  six  eggs,  beaten  very  light ;  sweeten  with  one  cupful  of 
sugar.  Add  two  tablespoonsful  of  corn-starch  (mixed  with  milk),  let 
cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  continually.  Remove  from  the  stove  and 
let  cool.  Flavor  with  any  desired  flavoring,  or  any  fruit  may  be  added 
— bananas  or  gtrawberries  are  nice.  Freeze  and  serve  with  chocolate 
cake. — Maude  Cross,  Gaiter,  Fla. 

ICE  CREAM 

To  a  soft  custard  made  of  one  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  cupful  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  corn-starch ;  add,  just  before  freezing,  one 
pint  of  sour  cream  and  small  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Sherbets  or  frozen 
fruit  juices  are  improved  by  adding  gelatine.  Use  one-third  amount 
that  is  used  to  make  stiff  jell. — Mrs.  F.  D.  Rood,  Montreat,  N.  0. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM 
One  tablespoonful  of  gelatine,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  whites  of  four 
eggs,  a  half  cupful  of  hot  water.  Almond  flavoring,  or  any  flavor  de- 
sired. Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water,  beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
add  gelatine,  then  sugar,  then  cold  water,  and  flavoring,  beating  cen- 
stantly.  Pour  half  the  mixture  in  a  deep  pan  or  dish,  then  sprinkle  with 
nuts.  Color  the  remaining  half  and  pour  over  the  first  half,  then  sprinkle 
with  nuts.  When  congealed,  dip  in  pan  of  boiling  water,  turn  out  on 
plate  and  slice.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mas.  W.  H.  Walker, 
W;ilara\  Ga. 

MOCK  CREAM 
This  makes  an  excellent  substitute  for  whipped  cream :  Two  table- 
spoonsful of  sugar,  one  pint  of  milk,  two  tablespoonsful  of  corn-starch, 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Heat  milk  and  sugar,  add  corn-starch,  wet  in  cold 
water,  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over  well- 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  cold. — Mrs.  P.  H.  Roefs,  Gaines- 
ville, Fla. 

ORANGE  CREAM 
One  orange  to  each  saucer ;  peel  and  separate  each  piece,  cut  np  with 
sharp  scissors,  taking  care  to  get  out  all  pieces  of  skin ;  cover  with  four 
teaspoonsful  of  sugar,  and  last,  two  heaping  tablespoonsful  of  whipped 
cream.  Stick  one  brandied  cherry  in  center  of  each  saucer. — Mrs.  A. 
Wheeler,  Summerville,  Ge. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM 
Rub  a  pound  each  of  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  In  a  pound  of 
grated  pineapple,  then  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  a 
cupful  of  milk.  Beat  the  whites  cf  the  eggs  stiff  and  light  and  add  them 
last.  Line  a  pudding  dish  with  a  rich  pie  crust  rolled  very  thin.  Fill 
it  with  the  prepared  custard  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Miss  Mar- 
garet S.  Graham,  Jasper,  Fla. 

ICE  CREAM 

8ix  pints  of  fresh  milk,  eight  eggs,  one  pint  of  sugar,  ons  ttacupful 
of  cream  (a  can  of  condensed  milk  ig  just  as  good),  one  lemon.  Take 
five  pints  of  this  milk  and  put  it  on  to  boil  with  the  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  all  together  very  light ;  put  the  other  pint  of  milk  (unboiled)  iftts 


190 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


this,  stirring  well ;  pour  the  boiling  milk  and  sugar,  very  gradually, 
into  the  eggs  and  cold  milk,  one  ladleful  at  a  time ;  now  strain  all  into 
a  vessel  and  set  it  into  a  large  dishpan  over  a  hot  stove,  stirring  all  the 
time,  till  it  thickens,  Dut  not  to  the  boiling  point,  as  it  must  not  curdle. 
Add  the  cream,  or  can  of  milk;  cool  it  and  place  in  freezer.  When 
partly  frozen,  cut  a  fresh  lemon  up  in  it,  unsqueezed. — Mbs.  Matt.  Gil- 
mobe,  Wakefield,  La. 

ICE  CREAM 

One  quart  of  milk  or  cream,  three  eggs,  three-fourths  cupful  of  sugar, 
flavor  to  taste.  Scald  the  cream  or  sweet  milk,  beat  the  yolks  till  thick 
and  creamy,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again ;  beat  the  whites  stiff  and 
beat  them  well  into  the  yolks,  pour  the  hot  cream  into  the  eggs,  and  when 
well  mixed  turn  back  into  boiler  and  cook  like  a  boiled  custard.  Stir 
constantly  until  foam  disappears. — Mbs.  Jennie  Caby,  Marshall,  Texas. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 
One  quart  of  cream,  three  eggs,  twelve  level  tablespoonsful  of  sugar, 
one-fourth  box  of  gelatine.  Whip  the  cream  after  it  is  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla.  Make  a  custard  with  the  drippings  and  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs ;  just  before  the  custard  cools,  mix  in  your  gelatine.  Dis- 
solve gelatine  in  a  little  water  before  mixing.  Beat  quickly  to  keep 
from  lumping,  and  mix  in  the  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  into 
your  mold  lined  with  sponge  cake.  Set  on  ice  when  it  is  cold. — Mbs. 
J.  M.  Cook,  Evergreen,  Ala. 

PEACH  TRIFLE 
Arrange  alternate  layers  of  cocoanut  macaroons  and  thinly  sliced 
peaches,  sprinkled  with  sugar,  in  a  deep  glass  dish.  Make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard with  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  and  two 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  milk.  Flavor  with  teaspoonful  of  almond  or  lemon, 
and  while  still  warm,  pour  over  the  peaches  and  macaroons.  Make  a 
meringue  with  whites  of  the  eggs  and  four  teaspoonsful  of  powdered 
sugar.  Heap  this  over  the  custard,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  blanched 
almond3  and  serve  very  cold. — Miss  Katie  Banks,  Pinola,  Miss. 

GRAPE  FRUIT  MARMALADE 
Ten  grape  fruit,  five  pounds  of  sugar ;  peel  the  fruit  and  soak  peel- 
ing in  salty  water  for  two  hours.  Drain  and  cover  with  fresh  water  and 
boil  until  clear.  Drain  again  and  remove  white  portion.  Put  yellow 
peel  through  food  chopper  or  cut  with  scissors  in  small  bits.  While  peel 
is  boiling  remove  every  particle  of  rag  from  pulp  and  place  with  sugar 
on  stove  to  heat;  add  chopped  peel  and  cook  until  thick  like  jelly. — 
Mbs.  P.  H.  Roefs,  Gainesville,  Fla. 

KUMQUAT  MARMALADE 
Three  pounds  of  kumquats,  sliced  thin  and  seeds  removed.  Weigh 
them  and  then  add  same  weight  in  water.  Set  away  until  next  day,  then 
boil  until  tender  in  same  water.  Set  away  another  twenty-four  hours, 
then  put  on  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Weigh  again  and  add  same  weight 
in  sugar ;  boil  twenty  minutes.  Put  in  glasses,  let  stand  until  jellied 
before  sealing.— Mbs.  J.  L,  Davis,  Irvine,  Fla. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 
Peel  the  oranges,  taking  off  all  the  peel  down  to  the  meat,  then  illce 
them  up  and  down.  Place  in  a  kettle  and  add  a  little  water,  unless  there 
is  considerable  juice.  Cook  for  one  hour,  then  take  off  and  measure  up, 
cupful  for  cupful  with  sugar,  using  just  as  much  sugar  as  there  are 
oranges  and  juice.   While  cooking,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  for  every 


DESSERTS  —  MARMALADE 


191 


dozen  oranges.  Cook  one  hour,  and  when  nearly  done  put  in  a  little 
orange  peel,  chopped  fine. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Brooker,  Switzerland,  Fla. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 
Three  solid  navel  oranges,  three  lemons ;  cut  off  the  navel  end,  then 
slice  oranges,  peel  and  all ;  add  lemon  juice,  put  all  in  water,  using  two 
cupsful  of  water  to  one  of  oranges ;  let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then 
boil  a  half  hour;  let  stand  again  twenty-four  hours,  then  cook  with 
sugar,  using  one  part  fruit  to  one  of  sugar ;  cook  to  marmalade  consis- 
tency ;  put  in  small  glasses. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Harsh,  Beeville,  Texas. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 
Six  oranges,  three  lemons ;  cut  off  the  ends  and  slice.  Weigh ;  to 
each  pound  of  fruit,  add  three  pints  of  water  and  let  it  stand  twenty-four 
hours.  Boil  for  forty-five  minutes,  then  weigh  again,  and  to  each  pound 
of  fruit  add  one  pound  of  sugar.  Boil  again  forty-five  minutes,  or  until 
it  jells. — Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Wiley,  Robertsdale,  Ala. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 
Nine  very  large  oranges  or  eleven  small  ones ;  wash  and  wipe,  then 
cut  from  core  and  have  entirely  free  from  seed.  Grind  the  oranges  and 
most  of  the  peel ;  then  pour  four  quarts  of  water  and  juice  measured  to- 
gether over  the  ground  orange  and  cook  until  it  is  as  thick  as  mush. 
Then  put  nine  pounds  or  nine  pints  of  sugar  into  the  cooked  orange  and 
cook  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  F.  A.  Curry,  Venice,  Fla. 

PEACH  MARMALADE 
For  six  quarts  of  peaches  prepared  ready  for  cooking,  add  one  quart 
of  water.  Cover  and  cook  for  one  hour,  then  add  three  quarts  of  granu- 
lated sugar  and  cook  an  hour  longer,  stirring  often.  The  marmalade 
should  be  thick,  smooth  and  glossy  at  end  of  that  time.  Put  in  glasses 
and  cover  with  paraffin. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Miller,  Fruitdale,  Ala. 


192 


JT AVORXTB  SOUTHERN  RBCIPBS 


CANDIES 


CREAM  CANDY 
Place  four  cupsful  of  white  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  into  a 
bright  pan  on  the  fire  and  boil  ten  minutes  without  stirring.  Test  it  by 
dropping  some  from  a  spoon ;  if  it  threads,  remove  pan  from  the  fire, 
take  out  a  small  spoonful  and  rub  it  against  the  side  of  a  dish;  if  it 
becomes  creamy  and  will  roll  into  a  ball,  it  is  properly  cooked ;  if  it  will 
not  cream,  let  it  cook  two  or  three  minutes  longer ;  when  it  will  cream, 
pour  the  whole  into  a  dish.  When  cool  enough  to  bear  your  finger  in  it, 
beat  with  a  spoon,  and  it  will  soon  look  like  cream  or  lard,  and  as  it 
grows  stiller,  work  like  bread  dough.  Put  on  an  oiled  paper  and  cut  in 
fancy  shapes,  adding  flavoring  before  beating. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Woobleb, 
Townley,  Ala. 

CREAM  CANDY 
Three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water,  one-fourth  teaspoonful 
of  cream  of  tartar.  Cook  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar  to  a  soft 
ball ;  remove  from  the  heat  and  stop  cooking  by  standing  saucepan  in 
cold  water ;  add  six  drops  of  peppermint  or  a  sufficient  amount  of  any 
desired  flavoring.  Let  stand  until  thoroughly  cool,  then  beat  until  white 
and  creamy.  Pour  slowly  upon  buttered  paper  and  cut  into  squares.— 
Mbs.  F.  D.  May,  Brandon,  Miss. 

CREAM  TAFFY 
Put  in  sauce  pan  two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  a  fourth  cupful  of 
vinegar,  a  fourth  cupful  of  water,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  Boil 
until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water ;  then  stir  in  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Pour  in  a  well-greased  pan  until  nearly  cold. 
Then  pull  until  pure  white  and  cut  in  inch-lengths.  —  Mbs.  Abthxtb 
SaaraEBS,  Bunnell,  Fla. 

WALNUT  CREAMS 
Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  light  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk 
op  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  moderately  for  twenty  min- 
utes, add  chopped  English  waluute  and  beat  until  the  mixture  becomes 
creamy.  Bour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  when  nearly  cool  make  into 
squares. — Miss  Nellie  Bumlet,  El  Oampo,  Terns. 

COLOWTD  CREAMS 
Make  the  cream  recipe  (see  "Cream  Candy")  and  divide  into  three 
parts,  leaving  one  part  white  coloring  one  pa^t  pink  with  fruit  coloring, 
and  one  part  brown  with  chocolate.  Make  the  white  into  a  round  ball, 
lay  on  a  buttered  dish,  pat  cut  one  inch  thick ;  work  the  pink,  pat  out 
flat,  lay  on  the  white,  then  lay  the  chocolate  upon  the  pink,  pressing  all 
together.  Trim  the  edges  and  cut  into  slices.  Never  cook  your  sugar  in 
an  old  or  black  pan ;  always  use  a  bright  new  pan. — Mbs.  J.  J.  Woob- 
leb, Toxwft&y>  Ate. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 
Make  the  candy  treatn  rte!p«  (see  "Cream  Candy")  and  form  small 

cone-shaped  balls ;  melt  one  cake  of  chocolate  and  keep  it  hot,  take  the 


CANDIES 


198 


balls  on  the  prongs  of  a  fork,  pour  the  chocolate  over  them  with  a  spoon  ; 
when  covered,  slip  them  on  oiled  paper.  When  hard,  trim  off  the  edges. 
— Mbs.  J.  J.  Woobleb,  Totonley,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 
Two  cupsful  of  pulverized  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  cream ;  boll  five 
minutes  and  make  into  balls  while  hot :  take  as  much  chocolate  as  re- 
quired and  steam  over  a  tea  kettle ;  when  soft,  cover  the  balls  and  set 
them  away  to  harden. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Akins,  Barnesville,  Oa. 

SUGAR  CANDY 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cupful  of  water,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.   Boil  until  it  threads,  pour  on 
buttered  marble  and  pull.   Flavor  to  taste. — Mbs.  Sallie  M.  R.  Lang, 
Sandersville,  Oa. 

SEA  FOAM 

Boil  two  quarts  of  brown  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  in  a  granite 
sauce  pan  until  a  hard  ball  forms  in  cold  water.  Have  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten  very  stiff.  Pour  the  syrup  into  the  eggs,  beating  constantly 
with  a  wire  egg-beater.  Add  a  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  beat  until 
the  mixture  is  quite  hard.  Add  nuts  or  candied  cherries  and  drop  on  to 
dishes. — Miss  Nellie  Cook,  Vicksburg,  Miss. 

SEA  FOAM 

Two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  any  good  syrup,  a 
half  cupful  of  hot  water ;  boil  till  it  threads.  While  syrup  is  cooking, 
beat  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth ;  pour  the  syrup  over  the 
eggs,  beating  them  briskly  together,  then  add  one  or  more  cupsful  of 
chopped  nuts.  Flavor  to  taste.  When  cooled  sufficiently  put  by  spoons- 
ful on  greased  platter. — Mbs.  V.  M.  Cbutsingeb,  Victoria,  Texas. 

FONDANT 

One  cupful  of  syrup,  one  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  a  fourth  tea- 
spoonful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one-third  cupful  of  hot  water.  Boil  without 
stirring  until  the  mixture  will  thread ;  when  partially  cool,  beat  until  it 
creams,  then  pour  up  and  keep  until  you  need  it. — Lois  L.  Simmons. 
Starhill,  La. 

DIVINITY  CANDY 
Four  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  cupful  of 
white  corn  syrup,  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  cupsful  of  nuts.  Boil  sugar, 
syrup  and  water  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water  will  form  a  ball. 
Pour  into  this  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs ;  beat  until  it  will  mold. — Mbs. 
Lydia  Wood,  Oglesby,  Tevas. 

DIVINITY  CANDY 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  water,  a  half  cupful  of  corn 
syrup,  a  half  cupful  of  salt,  white  of  one  egg.  Put  all  the  ingredients,  ex- 
cept the  egg.  together  and  cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Have 
the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  stiff  on  a  platter  and  pour  the  candy  slowly 
into  it,  beating  all  the  time ;  when  well  beaten,  add,  if  desired,  a  cupful 
of  chopped  nuts.  When  it  begins  to  harden,  spread  it  out  on  a  sheet  of 
clean  brown  paper.  Out  into  squares  and  let  cool. — Anonymous. 

MOLASSES  CANDY 
Three  oupsful  of  molaeses,  Uvo  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  a  lump  of 
butter  about  the  size  of  a  walnut  Place  in  frying  pan  on  the  stove  and 
let  boil ;  when  nearly  done,  place  a  little  in  a  cupful  of  water,  and  if  It 


194 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


hardens  quickly  it  is  done.  Have  a  pan  greased ;  pour  candy  in,  set 
aside  to  cool.  When  cool  enough  to  pull,  pull  until  white,  stretch  out 
and  let  get  hard ;  break  up  in  desired  lengths  ana  it  is  ready  to  eat.  Do 
not  stir  while  cooking  or  cooling ;  this  will  make  it  sugar.— Anonymou $. 

PATIENCE  CANDY 
Melt  one  cupful  of  sugar  in  an  iron  saucepan,  stirring  constantly 
until  the  consistency  of  molasses.  Add  one  cupful  of  milk  and  boil  until 
the  caramel  is  dissolved,  then  add  another  cupful  of  milk,  two  cupsful  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half  cupful  of  pecans  or  walnuts, 
which  add,  after  testing,  as  follows:  After  it  falls  heavily  from  the 
spoon,  drop  a  little  in  cold  water,  and  if  it  hardens,  take  from  the  fire 
and  stir  until  the  mixture  hardens. — Nona  Lawlet,  Oakville,  Texas. 

PATIENCE  CANDY 
Boil  together  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter.  While  boiling,  quickly  stir  in  one  cupful  of  thor- 
oughly browned  and  melted  sugar.  Boil  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  in 
water.  Beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  stir  in  nuts,  pour  on  an  un- 
greased  platter  and  cut  in  squares. — Mbs.  A.  Johnson,  Lyons,  Texas. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 
Take  a  five-cent  package  of  parched  peanuts,  shell  and  half,  then 
place  on  a  buttered  plate.  Then  dissolve  one  cupful  of  sugar,  by  placing 
it  in  a  vessel  on  a  stove,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  burning ;  when 
melted  pour  over  the  nuts  and  let  harden,  and  break  up  in  pieces. — 
Mbs.  R.  E.  McMutbat,  Midnight,  Miss. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 
Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  one  cupful 
of  coarsely  chopped  peanuts.  Put  sugar  into  an  iron  sauce  pan  and  let 
it  melt  over  a  moderately  hot  fire  ;  add  the  butter  and  nuts  and  immedi- 
ately pour  into  a  well-greased  pan.  Mark  into  squares  when  sufficiently 
cool. — Miss  Etjla  Wildeb,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

BROWN  PEANUT  CANDY 
Boil  together  a  cupful  each  of  molasses  and  brown  sugar,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  two  tablespoonsful  of  butter.  When  dropped  in 
water,  if  brittle,  add  a  cupful  of  blanched  peanuts.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  soda.  Beat  hard  and  pour  into  buttered  pans 
and  mark  into  squares.  When  cold,  wrap  in  oiled  paper. — Anna  New- 
ton, BarnesvUle,  Ga. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 
One  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  syrup,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cocoa,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut.  Put  in  the  syrup  and  sugar  and  cook  to  a  thick  paste,  then 
stir  the  cocoa  and  corn-starch  into  the  milk,  and  add  the  mixture  to  the 
>yrup.  and  sugar,  and  also  add  the  butter,  and  let  it  cook  until  hard  when 
dropped,  in  water,  and  then  pour  into' buttered  pans.  Cut  in  squares 
\vheri  nearly  cool. — Emma  L.  Hollcv/at,  Plant  City,  Fla. 

HONEY  CARAMELS 
Put  into  a  pan  two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of 
emm:<sr^milk,  and  one-fcurth  cupful  each  of  honey  and  butter.  Placs 
•TO&Ffoe  and.fctir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  cook  without  stirring 
-  u^llJ^fcps?  ha41  ¥iay  b*  formed-in^old -water.   B«at  this  until  craamy. 

i  •  ';.V-S;;'"'.:«?'..-  *.';«•  .         .  •-  ly  '  ,  : 


CANDIES 


pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cut  into  squares  when  cool  enough. — Mis. 
H.  D.  Onderson,  Fortner,  S.  C. 

CANDIED  NUTS  AND  FRUITS 
Three  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  water;  boil  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  in  cold  water,  then  flavor  with  lemon.  It  must  not  boil 
after  the  lemon  is  put  in.  Put  a  nut  on  the  end  of  a  fork  and  dip  in  the 
candy  and  let  it  cool.  If  the  candy  gets  cold,  set  on  the  stove  for  a  few 
minutes.  Malaga  grapes  and  orange  may  be  candied  in  the  same  way. 
— Miss  Daisy  Bell  McMahan,  Lowndesville,  S.  O. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 
Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  one-fourth  cupful  of  but- 
ter, four  squares  of  chocolate.  Put  into  a  sauce  pan,  let  it  simmer  ten 
minutes.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ;  stir 
five  minutes,  until  soft  and  creamy.  Pour  in  buttered  tins. — Mrs.  W. 
C.  Thompson,  Altoona,  Ala. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  OR  ICING 
One  cupful  of  cocoa,  three  cupsful  of  sugar  and  two  cupsful  of  milk. 
Stir  constantly,  and  when  nearly  done  add  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg.  Add  one  cupful  of  chopped  pecans  or  one  grated  cocoanut,  if  de- 
sired. You  can  chop  the  pecans  very  quickly  by  placing  them  in  a  dish 
and  chopping  them  with  a  biscuit  cutter. — Miss  Olive  R.  Pickett, 
Fitzpatrick,  Ala. 

COCOANUT  FUDGE 
Two  cupsful  of  granulated  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  cupful  of  shredded  cocoanut,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  extract.  Put  all  ingredients  into  a  sauce  pan.  Stir 
constantly  and  let  boil  four  minutes  from  the  time  they  commence  to 
boil  hard  Test  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire  when  it  forms  a 
soft  ball  in  cold  water.  Then  beat  till  heavy  and  smooth.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pans  and  spread  to  one-half  inch  thickness  and  cut  in  squares,  or 
make  into  round  balls,  if  you  like.  Chocolate  coating :  Put  the  desired 
amount  of  bitter  chocolate  into  a  bowl  and  melt  by  placing  the  bowl  in 
hot  water.  To  every  two  squares  of  chocolate,  add  a  bit  of  pure  paraffin 
the  size  of  a  pea.  This  insures  a  glossy,  hard  coat — Mrs.  Dora  Goode, 
Qoldthwaite,  Texas. 

PECAN  FUDGE 
Three  cupsful  of  brown  sugar,  one  cupful  of  fresh  milk ;  boil  until 
it  hardens  in  cold  water,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  a  cupful  of  pecans,  chopped  fine ;  boil  four  min- 
ute* and  pour  in  buttered  tins. — Mrs.  C.  N.  Kendall,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

SYRUP  FUDGE 
Two  squares  or  ounces  of  chocolate,  a  half  cupful  of  milk,  two  cups- 
ful of  granulated  sugar,  one-third  cupful  of  syrup,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  butter.  Cook  this  until  it  forms  a  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water, 
then  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Beat 
until  it  begins  to  sugar,  then  pour  on  buttered  tin,  and  when  nearly  cold 
cut  in  squares. — Lois  L.  Simmons,  Starhill,  La. 

SYRUP  CANDY 
One  pint  of  syrup,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut    Cook  very  rapidly  until  a  drop  will  harden  in  water.  Stir 


196 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


while  coolMng.  Grease  marble  or  platter,  pour  out,  and  pull  as  soon  as 
possible  to  handle. — Mrs.  Sallie  M.  R.  Lang,  Sandersville,  Oa. 

CANDY 

One-half  cupful  of  rich  milk  or  sweet  cream,  one  cupful  of  syrup,  one 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  dark  brown  sugar.  When  almost  done,  add  small 
lump  of  butter  and  a  half  cupful  of  chopped  walnuts.  When  done  beat 
until  creamy  as  it  cools. — Lois  L.  Simmons,  Starhill,  La. 

CANDY 

Two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  butter  the  size  of 
a  walnut,  also  a  little  water  to  keep  from  scorching.  Do  not  stir  while 
boiling.  When  cooked  till  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  pour  into  several 
buttered  plates  and  let  cool  enough  to  pull.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon.— Miss  Nona  Calk,  Pollock,  La. 

CANDY 

Two  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cupful  of  corn  syrup, 
one-fourth  cupful  of  water.  Cook  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Pour 
slowly  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  stiff ;  add  one  cupful  of  nut 
meats,  and  beat  until  cool. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Harris,  Camden,  Ala. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH 
Butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  cupsful  of  confectioners'  sugar,  and 
three  tablespoonsful  of  water.  Boil  these  ingredients,  stirring  all  the 
while.  When  it  gets  sugary,  it  will  lump,  and  then  dissolve.  When  it 
turns  light  brown,  pour  off  into  buttered  tins.  Any  desired  flavoring 
may  be  used,  and  the  mass  must  be  marked  into  squares  while  hot — 
Mrs.  Sallie  M.  R.  Lang,  Sandersville,  Ga. 

POP-CORN  BALLS 
Pop  the  corn  nicely  and  pick  out  the  unpopped  grains.  Set  it  aside 
in  a  large  pan.  Make  a  syrup  of  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons- 
ful of  vinegar,  a  little  water,  a  lump  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  par- 
tridge egg.  Boil  this  without  stirring  to  a  thick  syrup.  Pour  it  over 
the  popped  corn  and  mix  them  well,  then  press  between  the  palms  like 
making  snow-balls. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Thompson,  Altoona,  Ala. 

POR-CORN  BALLS 
Pop  the  corn  and  only  take  the  kernels  which  are  all  popped  out ; 
make  a  syrup  of  the  following:  One  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  two 
cupsful  of  molasses,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar ; 
boil  without  stirring  until  it  spins  a  thread  and  then  pour  over  the  corn, 
forming  into  balls  before  it  cools.  Lay  on  buttered  dishes. — Miss  Mar- 
tha Edmundson,  Bay  Mimtte,  Ala. 


CANNING  —  PRESERVING 


197 


CANNING-PRESERVING 


PRESERVING  APPLES 
Peel  and  core  them  nicely,  then  cut  into  small  cubes ;  add  one-third 
sugar,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  stew  until  tender.  Use  no  glass  jars  nor 
tin  cans,  but  fill  empty  syrup  buckets  or  earthen  jars  with  the  fruit,  and 
seal  with  paraffin  wax.  If  you  can  get  a  syrup  bucket  with  a  top  which 
fits  air-tight,  do  not  use  any  wax.  Preserved  apples  can  be  taken  out 
and  made  over  into  delicious  apple  butter,  by  mashing  thoroughly  and 
adding  a  little  more  sugar,  a  few  spoonsful  of  good  cider  vinegar  and 
some  cinnamon  flavor.  To  make  a  good  apple  custard,  prepare  in  the 
same  way  as  for  the  butter,  only  omit  the  vinegar  and  add  sweet  milk. 
The  custards  should  always  be  covered  with  frosting  and  served  with 
skim  milk. — Mbs.  Sidney  Harbison,  Marietta,  8,  C. 

CANNING  PEACHES  OR  OTHER  FRUITS 
Wash  and  peel,  leaving  a  few  seeds  in  best  peaches.  Put  to  one  gal- 
lon of  peaches,  or  other  fruit,  one  pint  of  sugar  ;  put  in  stone  jar ;  if  you 
have  more  fruit  put  in  another  gallon,  then  another  pint  of  sugar,  and 
bo  on,  until  all  are  put  in.  Cover  tightly  and  set  in  cold  place  (not  ice). 
Let  stand  until  next  morning,  when  the  fruit  will  be  completely  covered 
with  juice.  Pour  this  juice  into  your  preserving  kettle  and  let  it  come 
to  a  steady  boil,  then  pour  in  as  much  fruit  as  will  cook  nicely.  Put  in 
glass  jars  and  seal.  If  you  have  any  juice  left,  add  some  lemon  or  sour 
apples,  strain,  and  you  will  have  some  very  fine  jelly. — Mbs.  W.  A. 
Weight,  Varnell  Station,  Oa. 

CANNED  PEACHES 
Select  nice,  firm  peaches,  putting  three  pounds  of  sugar  to  fifteen 
pounds  of  fruit,  or  one  pound  of  sugar  to  five  pounds  of  fruit.  Be  sure 
not  to  cook  too  long ;  merely  let  all  come  to  a  boil.  Put  fruit  in  jars 
boiling  hot,  and  seal.  Have  jars  sterilized  and  hot  Cut  peaches  in 
halves,  if  possible. — Mbs.  J.  L.  Sinclaib,  Tyler,  Ala. 

CANNED  CORN 
Eight  pints  of  corn  (cut  fine),  three  pints  of  water,  one  pint  of  salt 
Boil  corn  and  water  together  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add  salt,  and  boil 
ten  minutes.    Seal  hot  in  glass  jars.    This  is  equal  to  fresh  corn,  and 
keeps  indefinitely. — Mbs.  J.  A.  Fbazieb,  Hendersonville,  N.  0. 

CANNED  CORN 
Twelve  cupsful  of  corn,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  of 
salt    Cook  fifteen  minutes  and  can  same  as  fruit — Mbs.  S.  B.  Labi- 
mobe,  Atlanta,  Oa. 

CANNED  BLACKBERRIES  BY  COLD  PROCESS 
Select  the  best  ripe  berries,  hull,  do  not  wash.   Berries  must  be  good 
and  sound,  as  a  single  sour  berry  will  ruin  a  whole  jar.   Fill  jars  com- 
pactly ;  do  not  bruise ;  place  the  jars  in  a  boiler  about  three  or  four 


198 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


inches  deeper  than  jars ;  fill  boiler  about  half  full  of  hot  water ;  make 
a  thin  sugar  syrup ;  a  cupful  of  sugar  to  each  half  gallon  of  berries ; 
pour  it  over  the  fruit  hot,  so  that  the  jar  is  full ;  put  top  on  with  new 
rubbers  (tightly),  fill  the  boiler  to  top  with  boiling  water,  put  on  lid  to 
the  boiler,  set  aside  or  on  back  of  stove  after  dinner  and  let  remain  in 
boiler  till  the  water  is  cold.  To  insure  full  cans  when  cold,  fill  with  boil- 
ing water,  or  better  have  extra  berries  heated  to  supply  shrinkage 
with  juice.  Strawberries  are  excellent  this  way,  using  more  sugar.  Ber- 
ries done  this  way  are  equal  to  fresh  fruit — Mbs.  W.  G.  Habblngton, 
Hermanville,  Miss. 

HOW  TO  CAN  BEANS 
String  beans  as  you  would  for  dinner,  cook  in  clear  water  till  tender. 
Place  beans  in  glass  jars.  To  one-half  gallon  of  beans  put  a  scant  half 
teaspoonful  of  salicylic  acid  on  top  of  beans,  fill  jar  with  water  in  which 
beans  were  cooked ;  seal  tight  When  ready  to  be  used,  drain  off  all 
water  in  jar  and  empty  in  stew  pan  with  enough  water  to  cover  beans. 
Let  cook  one  hour,  then  drain  off  and  cook  as  you  would  fresh  beans.— 
Mbs.  W.  F.  Habdy,  Clyde,  Texas. 

BEANS  — HOW  TO  CAN  IN  GLASS  CANS 
Prepare  as  if  going  to  eat  at  once,  only  to  one  gallon  of  beans  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  preserving  powder ;  cook  until  tender,  put  cans  on 
apron  of  the  stove.  After  they  have  been  washed  and  dried,  let  them 
get  warm  so  as  not  to  crack  when  filling  ;  fill  with  beans  (meat  and  all). 
Seal  and  put  in  a  dark  place,  as  the  light  is  harmful  to  canned  beans. — 
Mas.  R.  P.  Ubseby,  Starr,  S.  C. 

CANNED  BEANS 
Three  quarts  of  water,  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar ;  let 
come  to  boil,  drop  in  snap  beans  and  boil  thirty  minutes.  Pack  in  jars 
and  cover  with  liquid,  and  seal  boiling  hot.  When  you  wish  to  serve, 
soak  one  hour  in  warm  water,  and  cook  with  meat  about  two  hours,  add- 
ing a  little  soda. — Mbs.  R.  E.  Babwick,  Pace,  Miss. 

MINCE  MEAT 

One  quart  of  chopped  beef  (cooked),  two  quarts  of  apples  (chopped), 
one  quart  of  boiled  cider,  one  pint  of  brandy,  one  pound  of  currants,  one 
pound  of  raisins,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cloves,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
cinnamon,  two  nutmegs,  one  cupful  of  black  molasses,  sugar  to  sweeten 
to  taste,  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar. — Mbs.  F.  McFabiand,  Phidias  Park. 
Fla. 

MINCE  MEAT 

One  pound  of  lean  boiled  beef,  chopped  coarse ;  one  pound  of  suet, 
chopped  fine  ;  two  pounds  of  apples,  pared  and  cored  and  chopped  coarse ; 
one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  whole  ;  one  pound  of  currants,  whole ;  one 
and  one-fourth  pounds  of  sugar ;  one-fourth  pound  of  citron,  chopped 
fine ;  a  fourth  pound  of  candied  lemon  peel,  chopped  fine ;  a  pint  of  boiled 
apple  cider,  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  three  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Mix  all  together,  boil 
thirty  minutes.  Put  in  glass  fruit  jars  and  seal  while  hot  Will  keep  in- 
definitely.— Mbs.  J.  T.  Cotman,  Teague,  Texas. 

MINCE  MEAT 

One  cupful  of  chopped  meat  (one-fourth  of  it  fat),  two  cupsful  of 
apples,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  a  half  tea- 
spoonful of  ground  cinnamon,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  raisins,  a  half  cupful  of  currants,  one 
cupful  of  cider ;  if  no  cider,  use  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar ;  a  half  cupful 


CANNING  —  PRESERVING 


19© 


of  water.  If  thoroughly  cooked,  and  canned  while  boiling,  it  keeps 
nicely.— Mbs.  0.  W.  Hines,  AlcLeamville,  N.  C. 

MINCE  MEAT 

Take  any  kind  of  good  loan  beef  and  cook  until  tender;  run  through 
food  chopper.  To  one  quart  of  chopped  moat,  add  one  pint  of  chopped 
cranberries,  one  pound  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  currants,  three  pints 
of  chopped  apples,  one  cupful  of  chopped  suet,  one  cupful  of  molasses, 
two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg 
and  salt,  and  one-half  spoonful  of  black  pepper;  add  two  pints  of  wild 
grape  juice  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then  put  on  stove  and  cook  one-half 
hour,  stirring  constantly.  Pack  in  jar  and  use  as  needed. — Mrs.  Min- 
nie Owens,  Almyra,  Ark. 

TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 
Eight  pounds  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine  and  drained  well ;  four 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar  made  into  a  syrup ;  while  hot,  put  in  the 
tomatoes,  cook  one  and  a  half  hours,  or  until  clear ;  add  four  cupsful  of 
raisins,  one  cupful  of  citron,  one  cupful  of  vinegar,  four  tablespoonsful 
of  cinnamon,  ODe  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  black  pepper.  Add  large  piece  of  butter.  Can  while 
hot.  Will  pass  for  genuine  mince  meat. — Mbs.  C.  L.  Heath,  Lough- 
man,  Fla. 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 
Chop  or  grind  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  very  fine,  salt  a  little,  and 
let  drain  well.  Then  add  one  cupful  of  good  vinegar  and  one  quart  of 
water.  Cook  slowly  two  hours,  taking  care  not  to  burn.  Then  add  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  two  pounds  of 
seeded  raisins,  chopped  or  ground,  two  tablespoonsful  each  of  cloves,  cin- 
namon, and  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  nutmeg ;  cook  two  hours 
longer.  Seal  in  fruit  cans  or  in  stone  crock ;  keep  in  cool  place. — Mbs. 
M.  L.  Huffine,  Green  Camp,  Ohio. 

GREEN  TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 
Chop  one  peck  of  clean  green  tomatoes,  cut  fine  and  drain  in  colan- 
der; place  five  pounds  of  brown  sugar  in  preserving  kettle  with  two 
cupsful  of  vinegar;  cook  until  tomatoes  are  done  and  clear;  then  add 
two  pounds  of  seeded  and  halved  raisins,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cinna- 
mon, one  tablespoonful  each  of  nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  a  dash  of 
salt ;  bring  all  to  boil,  pour  into  jars  boiling  hot  Seal  at  once. — Mbs. 
Chandleb,  Istachatia,  Fla. 

HOME-MADE  MINCE  MEAT 
Two  apples,  two  Irish  potatoes,  one  five-cent  box  of  potted  ham. 
Peel  apples  and  potatoes  and  cut  fine;  cook  in  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning,  until  tender.  Mash  thoroughly  through  sieve  and  add  to 
potted  meat,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  a  pinch  each  of  cinnamon,  spice 
and  cloves;  cook  all  until  thick,  about  two  hours.  Stir  constantly. 
When  thick,  pour  and  cool.  Add  then,  three  teaspoonsful  of  either  whis- 
key, brandy,  wine  or  vinegar.  This  makes  three  pies.  One-fourth  pound 
of  seeded  raisins  may  be  added  (if  liked)  before  the  second  cooking. — 
Mbs.  J.  B.  Jenkins,  Putney,  Oa. 

TOMATO  CANNING 
Wash  and  slice  red,  ripe  tomatoes  and  boil  until  tender.  Press 
through  a  colander,  or  sieve  that  is  fine  enough  to  catch  all  the  seeds  and 
skins.   Repeat  and  put  in  beer  bottles  and  seal  with  sealing  wax.  Will 
keep  indefinitely,  and  is  fine  for  making  catsup,  sauces,  gravy,  soup,  or 


200 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


almost  any  way  that  tomatoes  are  used. — Mbs.  S.  E.  Mansell,  Sydney, 
Flm, 

TO  CAN  TOMATOES 
Seald  and  peel  nice  ripe  tomatoes ;  put  in  jars,  whole  or  quartered ; 
fill  jar  as  full  as  you  can,  then  pour  boiling  water  enough  to  fill.  Run  a 
knife  around  to  fill  all  space,  then  seal  and  put  in  a  vessel  and  fill  up  to 
the  neck  of  jar  with  boiling  water.  Put  top  on  vessel  and  wrap  in  old 
blanket  till  cold  or  about  twenty-four  hours. — Mbs.  Lena  Hatton, 
Sarah,  Miss. 

TO  DRY  OKRA  FOR  WINTER  USE 
Cut  tender  pods  of  okra  in  the  morning,  cut  them  up  crosswise  in 
pieces  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  thick  ;  put  in  hot  sun  to  dry  for  three 
days,  then  put  in  a  sack  and  hang  in  sun  for  about  one  week. — Mbs. 
L.  E.  Weathebs,  Celeste,  Texas. 

CANNED  PICKLED  BEETS 
Three  cupsful  of  water,  two  cupsful  of  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar. 
Use  these  proportions  for  as  many  as  you  wish  to  can.  Heat  together. 
Boil  beets  till  tender,  then  peel,  slice  (if  large),  and  pack  as  quickly  as 
possible  in  glass  fruit  jars.  Pour  on  the  hot  syrup  and  seal.  They  will 
keep  for  years. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Fowleb. 

CANNED  SAUER  KRAUT 
When  fermented  long  enough  take  kraut  out  and  press  in  jars  medium 
tight,  do  not  press  brine  out.  Put  jars  in  canner  or  boiler  with  water 
and  cook  till  tender,  having  filled  jars  with  slightly  salted  water.  When 
done,  take  jars  out,  let  cool  slightly  as  water  shrinks,  then  fill  with  salted 
hot  water  and  seal  air  tight — Mbs.  H.  Schulze,  Kerrville,  Texas. 

CHARCOAL  IN  CANNING 
When  canning  berries,  fruits  or  vegetables,  always  the  last  thing,  be- 
fore sealing,  put  a  piece  of  charcoal  about  the  size  of  nutmeg  on  top  of 
contents  and  seal ;  when  opening  the  can  for  use.  lay  charcoal  out.  The 
improved  flavor  and  condition  of  the  fruits  will  be  worth  while. — Mbs. 
Wm.  A.  Davis,  Big  Fork,  Ark. 

SPICED  PEACHES 
Fourteen  pounds  of  fruit,  six  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  three  pints 
of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  a  half  ounce  of  mace,  one  ounce  of 
all-spice.  Scald  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spice  two  or  three  times  and  pour 
over  the  fruit  hot.  If  the  fruit  then  is  not  cooked,  boil  it  until  done. 
(The  fruit  should  be  thrown  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  peeled,  to  pre- 
vent its  discoloring.)  If  the  fruit  is  cling-stone — do  not  cut  from  the 
pits  in  either  case ;  leave  the  stones  in — the  flavor  will  be  better.  Use 
whole  spice. — Mbs.  J.  B.  Jackson,  Mount  Zion,  Fla, 

SWEET  PICKLE  PEACHES 
To  make  one-half  gallon  of  pickle  peaches,  take  three  cupsful  of  apple 
vinegar,  the  same  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  spice  and  cloves ;  boil 
the  cloves,  peaches  and  vinegar  together  until  the  peaches  are  tender; 
then  put  in  warm  jars  and  seal  while  hot. — Mbs.  Edith  Tubneb-  Coir- 
pens,  S.  C. 

PICKLED  PEACHES 
Take  four  pounds  of  cling-stone  peaches,  peel,  put  in  cold  water  to 
keep  from  discoloring.    Make  a  syrup  of  three  cupsful  of  vinegar  and 
two  cupsful  of  sugar.    Boil  peaches  in  this  syrup  till  tender,  take  out 
and  drop  in  jars,  add  whole  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  bark  and  pieces 


CANNING  —  PRESERVING 


20  r 


of  ginger ;  then  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  all  and  seal.  Do  not  put  all  the 
peaches  in  syrup  at  once;  about  eight  or  ten  at  a  time.  —  Mrs.  H. 
Schulze,  Kerrville,  Texas. 

SPICED  CURRANTS 
Five  pounds  of  currants,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar, 
one  tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  same  of  cloves  (tied  in  thin  mus- 
lin bag,  if  you  wish  to  prevent  making  the  fruit  dark  colored).   Boil  all 
together  one  hour. — Mbs.  J.  B.  Jackson,  Mount  Zion,  Ormond,  Fla. 

SPICED  GOOSEBERRIES 
Four  quarts  of  fruit,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one 
ounce  of  cinnamon,  a  half  pint  of  vinegar;  boil  gently  three  or  four 
hours,  adding  the  spice  last  half  hour. — Mrs.  J.  B.  Jackson,  Mount 
Zion,  Ormond,  Fla. 

HEAVENLY  HASH 
One  peck  of  fresh  prunes,  scalded  and  pitted,  one  dozen  oranges  (use 
all  the  pulp  and  yellow  rind  of  six)  put  through  the  grinder,  two  pounds 
of  English  walnuts,  cut  up  small,  eight  pounds  of  sugar,  spice  mixture 
to  taste.  Set  it  all  into  porcelain  dish  at  back  of  the  stove  and  cook  like 
marmalade,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Seal  into  glass  jars. — Mrs. 
Chandler,  Istachatta,  Fla. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PRESERVES 
Slice  tomatoes,  sprinkled  with  salt,  into  a  stone  or  granite  vessel 
just  as  you  would  for  chow-chow,  and  let  them  stand  over  night.  Next 
mornirg,  drain  the  salty  water  off  and  wash  them  in  a  good,  clear  water. 
To  every  pound  of  fruit  add  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Cook 
until  a  thick  eyrup. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Mankin,  Whitt,  Texas, 

PEAR  PRESERVES  WITH  PINEAPPLE 
Peel,  core  and  quarter  one  gallon  of  pears.  Cover  with  granulated 
sugar  and  let  stand  over  night ;  next  morning  put  on  to  cook,  and  if 
needed,  add  more  sugar  to  make  plenty  of  syrup.  Just  before  the  syrup 
is  thick  enough,  add  one  ten-cent  can  of  grated  pineapple ;  let  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  put  in  glass  jars  and  seal.  A  small  raw  pineapple  may 
be  used  if  preferred,  but  if  the  raw  one  is  used,  it  should  be  put  in  when 
the  pears  are  about  half  done. — Amy  E.  Spare,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

PEAR  PRESERVES 
One  pound  of  fruit,  one  pound  of  sugar,  and  when  clarified  by  boiling 
and  skimming,  put  in  the  pear*  and  stew  gently  until  clear.  Stick  three 
or  four  cloves  in  each  pear,  for  this  fruit  seems  to  require  some  extrane- 
ous flavor  to  bring  out  its  own  piquancy.  Another  addition  to  pear  pre- 
serves may  be  found  instead,  by  adding  the  juice  and  thinly  pared  rind 
of  one  lemon  to  each  five  pounds  of  fruit.  If  the  pears  are  hard  and 
tough,  parboil  them  until  tender  before  beginning  to  preserve,  and  from 
the  same  water  take  what  you  need  for  making  the  syrup.  If  you  can 
procure  only  large  pears  to  preserve,  cut  them  into  halves  or  even  slices, 
so  that  they  can  get  done  more  quickly,  and  lose  nothing  in  appearance. 
— Mrs.  Julius  Whittington,  Roxie,  Miss. 

PEAR  PRESERVES 
Peel,  core  and  cut  pears  into  pieces  as  near  the  same  size  as  possible. 
Cook  them  in  clear  water  until  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  fork,  then 
take  them  from  the  water,  put  in  an  earthen  vessel — a  layer  of  pears  and 
a  layer  of  sugar,  using  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  fruit  Do  this 


202 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


is  the  afternoon,  and  the  next  morning  there  is  enough  juice  in  which  to 

cook  the  preserves.,  Cook  them  very  slowly  until  the  pears  are  clear; 
then  seal  while  hot.  Always  use  a  porcelain-lined  iron  kettle,  keeping 
it  closely  covered  to  prevent  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  from  escaping.— 
Alice  Taylob,  Bolmgbroke,  Ga, 

PEAR  PRESERVES 
Peel,  core  and  quarter  pears  in  the  afternoon,  using  one  pound  of 
sugar  to  one  pound  of  fruit.  Put  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  fruit 
In  the  morning  take  fruit  out  of  juice,  boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken, 
keep  the  syrup  clear  by  skimming,  add  pears  and  boil  down  slowly.  Seal 
while  hot. — Miss  C.  L.  Hodnett,  Colfax,  La. 

PLUM  CONSERVE 
Six  pounds  of  plums,  five  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  seeded  rai- 
sins, two  oranges,  juice  and  yellow  rind,  chopped.   Cook  about  one-half 
hour.  Seal  in  jars. — Mbs.  Coba  B.  Calvebt,  Stallo,  Miss. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES 
Mix  equal  amounts  of  berries  and  sugar,  let  stand  until  juice  is  well 
extracted.  Put  the  syrup  on  the  fire  and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  drop 
in  the  fruit.  Cook  until  berries  are  thoroughly  done.  This  will  make  a 
sort  of  jelly  about  the  fruit  If  only  a  thick  syrup  is  desired,  add  water. 
— Anonymous. 

WATERMELON  PRESERVES 
Peel  off  all  the  green,  slice  and  put  in  sun.    Next  morning  put  in 
a  preserving  kettle  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  watermelon,  then  sugar,  until 
all  are  used.   Boil  to  thick  syrup.   Flavor  with  anything  you  like.  Seal 
while  hot — Mbs.  W.  J.  Abchee,  Glenwood,  Ala. 

WATERMELON  PRESERVES 
TaKe  the  rinds  of  melons,  paring  off  the  green  and  cut  in  any  desired 
shape.  To  eight  quarts  of  rind  thus  prepared,  put  in  a  preserving  kettle 
and  add  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  nutmeg ;  dissolve  in  water  suffi- 
cient to  cover  rinds.  Let  remain  over  night.  In  the  morning,  drain  off 
the  water  and  add  four  quarts  of  sugar.  Let  stand  until  syrup  has 
formed  in  which  to  cook  the  rinds,  then  simmer  until  rinds  are  thick  and 
clear  and  the  syrup  thick,  like  honey.  Can  add  lemons — one,  two  or 
three — if  the  flavor  is  liked. — Miss  Katie  Banks,  Pinola,  Miss. 

PRESERVING  CITRON  AND  WATERMELON  RIND 
Prepare  citron  as  follows :  Pare  and  quarter  the  citron  and  boil  in 
water  until  it  has  a  clear,  icy  appearance,  and  is  so  tender  that  a  straw 
or  pin  will  readily  pierce  it.  Then  have  ready  a  syrup  of  sugar  and 
water,  drain  the  citron  and  boil  in  the  syrup  until  the  sugar  thoroughly 
penetrates  it  Then  dry  it  slowly ;  spread  out  on  dishes,  turning  it 
occasionally  and  sprinkling  on  powdered  sugar  several  times.  When 
sufficiently  dried,  pack  in  alternate  layers  of  citron  and  sugar  in  jars. 
When  serving,  flavor  with  lemon  juice.  Another  way  is  to  cook  the 
citron  as  above,  drain  off  the  water,  then  cook  until  it  is  cooked  into 
citron  butter,  cooking  the  desired  flavor  with  it  Watermelon  rinds  are 
prepared  in  the  same  way,  except  they  are  not  dried  or  cooked  into 
butter,  but  put  up  in  jars  as  soon  as  cooked  tender,  with  the  syrup 
poured  over  them. — Mbs.  S.  Habbison,  Marietta,  8.  C. 

YELLOW  TOMATO  JAM 
Four  pounds  of  golden  green  tomatoes ;  remove  the  skin  by  pourlnr 
on  them  boiling  water  and  letting  stand  awhile,  then  peel.    Cut  the 


CANNING  —  PRESERVING 


round  way,  remove  all  seeds,  drain  through  a  muslin  bag.  Boil  skins 
and  seeds  with  two  cupsful  of  water  and  drain  over  tomatoes;  add  six 
pounds  of  sugar  in  preserving  kettle.  Tiring  to  boil  before  adding  toma- 
toes, then  let  boil  until  it  jellies — about  three-fourths  of  an  hour. — Mrs. 
Oha.nih.lu,  htachatta,  Fla. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM 
Two  quarts  of  blackberries,  oue  quart  of  fine-cooked  apples,  two 
quarts  of  sugar.    Boil  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Akins,  Barnes- 
ville,  Ga. 

ELDERBERRY  JELLY 
Wash  the  berries,  put  in  boiler  with  one-fourth  water,  boil  and  strain. 
Measure  and  put  on  to  boil.  Allow  cupful  of  juice  to  cupful  of  sugar. 
Place  sugar  in  oven  to  heat ;  after  juice  has  boiled  hard  a  half  hour,  stir 
in  the  heated  sugar.  Boil  until  it  threads,  then  pour  in  glasses. — Maude 
McMichael,  Charlotte,  N.  C. 

BLACKBERRY  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 
Allow  a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of  berries.  To  every  four 
pounds  of  berries  allow  one  pint  of  good  vinegar.  Mash  the  berries  and 
sugar  together  and  cook  down  as  thick  as  jam,  stirring  constantly,  or  it 
will  scorch.  Remove  vessel  from  stove,  add  vinegar  required,  also 
spices  to  suit  taste  Put  on  stove  again  and  cook  down  almost  as  thick 
as  jam.  This  is  splendid  with  any  kind  of  meats. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Swear- 
ingen,  Vienna,  Ga. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE 
Wash  one  quart  of  cranberries,  add  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  cold 
water,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  skin  bursts.  Strain  through  a  colander 
and  return  to  the  fire.  When  boiling  again,  add  a  cupful  of  sugar  and 
simmer  slowly  until  thick,  stirring  frequently.  Pour  out  into  molds  and 
serve  cold. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Prater,  Lake  Charles,  La. 

PLUM  SAUCE 

Three  pounds  of  ripe  plums,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  spice,  and  ginger.  Put  all  together  in 
preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly  for  one  hour.— Mrs.  W.  W.  Johnson, 
Fruit  Hill,  S.  C. 

QUINCE  HONEY 
Pare  and  grate  six  quinces.    To  one  pint  of  boiling  water  add  six 
pounds  of  granulated  sugar.   Stir  over  fire  until  sugar  is  dissolved ;  add 
the  grated  quince  and  cook  twenty  minutes.   Turn  into  jelly  glasses. — 
Thornton  Pearl  Hall,  Aeivorth,  Ga. 

SPICED  GRAPES 
Seven  pounds  of  grapes,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  vinegar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  mace  (tied  in  thin 
muslin  bag).  After  washing  the  fruit  thoroughly,  squeeze  the  pulp  from 
the  skins  ;  heat  the  pulp  until  the  seeds  can  be  removed  by  running  same 
through  strainer,  and  boil  till  tender  and  begins  to  thicken,— Mrs.  J.  B- 
Jackson,  Mount  Zion,  Ormond,  Fla. 


m 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


PICKLES 


SWEET  PICKLE 
Two  gallons  of  chopped  cabbage,  one  pint  of  chopped  onions,  eight 
large,  green  tomatoes  (or  their  equal  in  small),  salt  to  taste,  five  table- 
spoonsful  of  ground  allspice,  two  tablespoonsful  of  ground  cloves,  two 
and  a  half  tablespoonsful  of  celery  seed,  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  three 
quarts  of  good  vinegar.  Cook  all  well  or  until  cabbage  seems  done.  It 
is  then  ready  for  use. — Anonymous. 

SWEET  PICKLE 
Three  dozen  medium-sized  cucumbers  put  into  brine  for  a  week. 
Take  out,  cut  crosswise  into  pieces  an  inch  thick.  Green  them  by  put- 
ting over  fire  with  five  cents'  worth  of  alum  in  vinegar  to  which  a  hand- 
ful of  grape  leaves  have  been  added.  Do  not  let  them  get  too  hot.  Take 
two  quarts  of  vinegar,  three  or  four  pounds  of  sugar,  a  half  ounce  of 
mace,  a  half  ounce  of  cloves,  one-fourth  pound  of  cinnamon,  and  plenty 
of  celery  seed.  Boil.  When  cool,  pour  over  cucumbers.  Next  morning, 
drain  off  vinegar,  reheat  and  pour  over  cucumbers.  Repeat  for  three 
mornings. — Mrs.  Cora  B.  Calvebt,  Stallo,  Miss. 

SWEET  PICKLE 
Sweet  pickle  may  be  made  from  pears,  peaches,  quinces,  figs,  beets, 
full-grown  cucumbers,  or  watermelon  rinds.  For  ten  pounds  of  fruit, 
prepare  a  syrup  of  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Into 
each  piece  of  fruit  put  one  clove.  Drop  the  fruit,  one  piece  at  a  time, 
into  the  boiling  syrup.  Boil  a  few  minutes.  Remove  the  fruit  and 
spread  it  on  dishes  to  cool.  Boil  the  syrup  until  thick.  Put  the  fruit 
into  a  jar  and  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  it.  Let  it  stand  three  days, 
then  boil  and  seal.  It  is  not  necessary  to  seal,  but  is  safer  from  aufes. 
Peaches  make  the  best  sweet  pickle,  as  the  seed  gives  them  a  fine  flavor. 
These  pickles  are  nice  served  with  plain  cake. — Mattie  Earnest,  Win- 
field,  Ala. 

SWEET  PICKLED  BEETS 
Cook  beets  until  tender ;  when  cool,  peel,  cut  lengthwise  and  place  In 
jar.    Boil  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  sugar,  with  one  teaapoonful  of 
ground  cloves,  and  pour  over  the  beets  boiling  hot. — Mb*.  T.  W.  Can- 
tbell,  Liberty,  8.  O. 

SWEET  PICKLED  BEETS 
Boil  a  half  gallon  of  beets  until  tender,  cool  and  rub  off  the  skin,  cut 
into  quarters  and  put  on  to  boil  in  vinegar;  add  two-thirds  cupful  of 
sugar,  enough  whole  spice  and  cloves  to  flavor  nicely.  If  vinegar  is  very 
strong,  add  some  water,  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Seal  while  hot — Mes. 
M.  T.  Wiley,  Mission,  Texas. 

CABBAGE  PICKLE 
Slice  the  cabbage  and  put  it  into  a  stone  or  wooden  vessel,  sprint- 
ling  each  layer  with  salt    Let  ftfand  twenty-four  hours,  then  rinse  ofP 


PICKLES 


th«  salt,  and  drain.  Put  into  jars,  adding  one  pound  of  sugar,  a  half 
ounce  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  three  tablespoonsful  of 
ground  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  of 
horse-radish  to  the  gallon.  Sprinkle  the  spices  and  sugar  over  each  layer 
of  cabbage  as  you  place  it  in  the  jar.  Pour  cold  vinegar  over  to  cover 
well.  Use  whole  spices  and  do  not  cook  pickle.  Excellent,  and  can  be 
made  any  time  in  the  year. — Mbs.  R.  N.  Ligiitfoot. 

CHOPPED  PICKLES 
One  gallon  of  cabbage,  one  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  one  quart  of 
onions,  two  green  pepper  pods.  Chop  each  separately.  Sprinkle  salt 
over  the  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  drain  off  water  and  mix 
with  other  ingredients  ;  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  ground  mustard,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  ginger,  one  nutmeg,  three  dozen  cloves,  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  cinnamon,  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Mix  well  and  cover  with  good 
vinegar,  and  boil  slowly  for  one  hour. — Leoba  Newton,  Barnesville,  Get. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 
Take  any  quantity  of  small  cucumbers,  make  a  brine,  and  pour  over 
cucumbers  while  hot.  Let  stand  twenty-four  hours,  then  take  out  of 
brine,  and  pour  hot  alum  water  over  them  and  let  stand  another  twenty- 
four  hours.  Take  out  and  pour  over  boiling  spiced  vinegar. — Mbs.  J.  C. 
Goolsby,  Graham,  Oa. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 
Wash  and  pack  green  cucumbers  in  stone  jar.  Throw  on  generous 
handful  of  salt,  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  to  cover.  Let  stand  in  this 
brine  twenty-four  hours.  Repeat  this  process  for  three  days.  The  last 
time  measure  water,  take  as  much  strong  vinegar,  a  piece  of  alum  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  an  ounce  of  cloves,  and  othe"  spices  ;  bring  to  a  boil  and 
pour  over  cucumbers.  Drain  out  all  br'ne  before  pouring  on  vinegar. 
This  is  for  three  gallons. — Mbs.  Emily  H.  Livingston,  McComb,  Miss. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 
Take  your  cucumbers  from  the  brine  and  soak  for  three  days.  Put 
one  gallon  in  kettle  and  cover  with  weak  vinegar,  say  half  vinegar  and 
half  water.  Let  simmer  thirty  minutes,  put  in  lump  of  alum  about  the 
size  of  a  hickory  nut,  before  it  begins  to  boil.  Keep  covered  with  a  cloth. 
Take  up  pickles  and  put  in  jar.  On  top  put  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon 
(powdered),  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  spice,  and  one 
tablespoonful  of  mustard,  some  horse-radish  ground  in  food  chopper,  tea- 
spoonful of  sugar ;  cut  up  onions  and  mix  with  the  pickle.  Lastly,  cover 
with  good  vinegar.  It  will  be  ready  to  serve  in  a  day  or  two. — Mbs.  C. 
R.  Myebs,  Byhalia,  Mies. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 
Gather  cucumbers  in  the  evening,  and  put  one  cupful  of  salt  to  three 
gallons  of  cucumbers ;  pour  boiling  water  on  them  and  let  set  over  night ; 
in  the  morning  have  vinegar  boiling  and  put  cucumbers  in  and  let  boil 
two  minutes;  then  seal  them. — Mks.  Jennie  Caby,  Marshall,  Texas. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 
Gather  the  cucumbers  and  put  away  in  good  strong  brine  till  con- 
venient to  make  pickle.  When  ready  to  use.  take  out  and  soak  for  three 
or  four  days  till  salt  is  out.  When  sufficiently  soaked,  take  out  of  water 
and  wipe  dry.  For  two  gallons  of  cucumber*  have  a  half  gallon  of  good 
vinegar  ar?d  six  pounds  of  brown  sugar  in  the  preserving  kettle,  hot; 
drop  part  of  the  cucumbers  in  and  let  get  heated ;  take  these  out  and 


206 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


put  the  remainder  in  and  heat.  Take  out  and  put  all  cucumbers  back  in 
jar.  Now  take  vinegar  off  of  the  stove  and  add  about  one  teacupful 
of  ground  mustard  dissolved  in  a  cupful  of  hot  water,  a  tablespoonful 
each  of  spice,  cloves,  celery  seed  and  tumeric ;  pour  over  cucumbers  and 
cover.  Stir  them  once  a  day,  for  a  few  days,  and  set  in  sun. — Mrs.  H.  J. 
R ogees,  Jb.,  Rockingham,  N.  C. 

PLAIN  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 
In  a  ten-gallon  keg  make  a  brine  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg. 
Gather  the  cucumbers  every  morning  and  put  into  this ;  those  the  size 
of  the  thumb  are  nicest,  though  larger  ones  are  very  nice.  After  they 
have  been  in  the  brine  about  two  weeks,  take  out  and  soak  over  night  in 
strong  alum  water,  having  split  all  the  large  ones  into  quarters.  The 
alum  hardens  them.  Next  morning  pour  off  the  water  and  cover  with 
vinegar,  put  in  one  tablespoonful  each  of  black  pepper  and  spice  and 
cloves,  not  ground ;  this  is  about  two  gallons  of  pickles.  Put  in  a  lot  of 
nice  green  grape  leaves  to  make  it  dark  green.  Let  get  hot  through  and 
put  into  jars.  They  don't  need  to  be  sealed.  If  liked,  a  pod  of  red  and 
green  pepper  each  may  be  put  into  the  center  of  each  jar. — Mbs.  M,  J. 
Beabd,  Brierfield,  Miss. 

SOUR  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 
Place  cucumbers  in  a  jar,  cover  jar  with  paper  and  plate :  place  over 
the  tire  enough  white  vinegar  to  cover  cucumbers:  add  to  this  vinegar 
salt,  pepper,  and  any  seasoning  desired.  Let  it  all  come  to  a  boil,  then 
pour  over  the  cucumbers.  Pour  this  vinegar  over  cucumbers  three  morn- 
ings, and  have  it  boiling  each  time ;  the  fourth  morning  drop  cucumbers 
in  fresh,  cold  vinegar. — Mbs.  Kate  Crideb,  Farmerville,  La. 

DILL  PICKLES 
Make  in  the  usual  way.  When  good  and  sour,  put  in  large  jars  as 
many  as  you  can  crowd  in  without  mashing ;  cut,  if  too  large.  To  one 
quart  of  water  add  one  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  and  let  cool  before  pouring 
over  pickles ;  add  a  little  dill  seed,  then  seal. — Mbs.  H.  Schulze,  Kerr- 
ville,  Texas. 

FEAST  PICKLES 
Cook  sliced  cabbage  in  salt  water  till  tender,  drain,  and  mix  with 
whole  allspice,  mustard  seed,  celery  seed,  cloves  and  pieces  of  cinnamon 
bark.  Any  of  these  can  be  emitted  if  not  handy.  Put  in  sealing  jars : 
do  not  press  too  tightly.  Boil  one  cupful  of  vinegar  with  one  scant  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  pour  over  cabbage  hot,  and  seal.  Green,  sliced,  cooked  beans 
are  delicious  put  up  in  this  way  ;  also  small  cucumbers  are  fine  this  way. 
—Mbs.  Herman  Schulze,  Kerrville,  Teaas. 

GREEN  TOMATO  CHOP  PICBILE 
Two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes,  eight  large  onions;,  three  green  pep- 
pers, two  red  peppers ;  chop  all  fine  and  add  a  half  cupful  of  salt ;  mix. 
Put  in  a  sack,  hang  up  a.nd  let  drain  over  night,  then  add  two  pounds  of 
brown  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  black, pepper,  ground  cloves  and  all- 
spice, a  half  pint  of  white  mustard  seed,  one-fourth  pound  of  celery  seed ; 
pour  over  this  three  quarts  of  good  vinegar,  put  on  a  stove,  let  come  to  a 
boil ;  put  in  jars  and  seal.— Mbs.  S.  H.  Williams.  Ohatdee,  Ala. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 
One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  one  large  head  of  cab- 
bage, one  cupful  of  salt  sprinkled  through,  and  let  them  stand  over  night 
In  the  morning,  drain,  put  all  in  thin  muslin  bag,  hang  so  as  to  thor- 
oughly drain  for  several  hours,  places  tonaatoee.  cabbage,  etc.,  in  porcelain 


PICKLES 


kettle.  Add  two  quarts  of  water  and  one  quart  of  vinegar.  Boil  twenty 
minutes ;  after  it  once  boils  and  is  hot  through,  use  a  wooden  paddle  to 
■tir,  then  drain  again  and  throw  this  vinegar  and  water  away.  Put 
pickles  in  jars,  and  heat  two  quarts  of  fresh  vinegar ;  pour  over  pickles 
scalding  hot  Add  two  pounds  of  sugar  in  last  vinegar  if  sweet  pickles 
are  desired. — Lizzie  Herbington,  Hermanville,  Miss. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPER  PICKLE 
Take  full-grown  peppers  of  the  large  varieties ;  cut  off  the  stem  and 
take  out  the  seed.  For  the  filling  take  a  gallon  of  cabbage  cut  as  for 
slaw,  a  quart  of  sliced  onions ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  several 
hours.  Put  into  a  bag  and  squeeze  out  all  water,  then  put  into  a  porce- 
lain kettle  with  one  quart  of  firm  cucumber  pickles  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Add  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  four  table- 
spoonsful  of  white  mustard  seed,  two  teaspoonsful  of  ground  mustard,  a 
half  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  two  spoonsful  of  tumeric.  Cover  with 
good  cider  vinegar  and  boil  half  an  hour.  Fill  the  pepper  while  the  mix- 
ture is  hot  and  pack  in  half-gallon  stone  jars.  See  that  the  pickles  are 
kept  well  covered  with  vinegar.  —  Miss  Lula  G.  Holland,  Ninety- 
Six,  8.  C. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 
One-half  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  a  half  gallon  of  cabbage,  one  quart 
of  onions,  all  cut  fine ;  salt  all  over  night,  drain  next  day,  and  add  one 
small  box  of  mustard,  a  half  teacupful  of  flour,  two  tablespoonsful  of 
tumeric,  a  half  teacupful  of  celery  seed,  a  half  teacupful  of  sugar,  one 
teacupful  of  seeded  green  peppers,  chopped  fine ;  cover  all  with  vinegar. 
— Mbs.  M.  J.  Beabd,  Brierfield,  Miss. 

MUSTARD  PICKLE 
One-fourth  peck  of  small  cucumbers,  one-fourth  peck  of  green  string 
beans,  one  pint  of  green  peppers,  one  quart  of  small  onions.  Cut  all  in 
small  pieces.  Put  cucumbers  and  beans  in  strong  brine  for  twenty-four 
hours.  Remove  from  brine  and  pour  on  one  pound  of  ground  mustard 
mixed  with  one-half  pint  of  sweet  oil  and  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  vine- 
gar.— Mbs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jr.,  Teddy,  Ala. 

APPLE  VINEGAR 
Success  in  pickling  depends  on  good,  clear  vinegar.  Slice  as  many 
home-raised  apples  as  desired,  place  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover  with  clear 
water.  Allow  to  ferment  at  least  ten  days.  Strain  through  a  fine  cloth. 
Sweeten  until  pleasant  to  the  taste.  Syrup  may  be  used  instead  of 
sugar.  Allow  to  ferment  again,  strain  again,  and  seal  in  bottles  or  jugs. 
Always  place  a  piece  of  mother  in  each  vessel  of  vinegar  to  hold  its 
strength.  This  will  be  perfectly  clear  and  will  not  darken  fruit — Mbs. 
S.  L,  CtJLVEB,  DeattviUe,  Ala, 

PEAR  PICKLE 
Pare  and  core  two  quarts  of  pears,  put  them  In  earthenware  vessel 
with  one  quart  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  two  cupsful  of 
sugar.  Boil  till  tender.  Will  keep  in  open  jars  all  winter.~Mss.  D.  B. 
Montgomery,  Moreland,  Ga. 

SWEET  PEACH  PICKLE 
Eighteen  pounds  of  peeled  Elberta  peaches,  nine  pounds  of  sugar,  two 
tablespoonsful  each  of  whole  doves  and  stick  cinnamon,  broken  in  pieces, 
one  quart  of  vinegar.  Put  sugar,  vinegar  and  spioee  on  fire,  in  granite 
preserving  kettle ;  let  come  to  a  boil.  When  boiling  well,  put  in  peaches, 
let  cook  until  you  can  pierce  peaches  easily  with  a  straw.   By  this  time 


208 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


they  will  have  changed  color  and  will  look  clear.  Now  take  up  care- 
fully in  glass  jars,  cover  with  the  syrup  and  seal.  Of  course  any  peaches 
will  do,  but  if  you  want  prize  sweet  pickles,  use  Elbertas. — Mbs.  S.  M. 
Piebce,  Weatherford,  Texas. 

SWEET  TOMATO  PICKLES 
Put  one  quart  of  good  vinegar  in  boiler  on  range,  add  a  half  cupful  of 
sugar,  one  spoonful  of  cloves,  one  spoonful  of  black  pepper.    Slice  thin 
one  dozen  green  tomatoes,  boil  three  minutes,  put  in  closed  jar  and  let 
set  over  night,  when  it  is  ready  for  use. — Lena  Gasein,  Newton,  Texas. 

TOMATO  PICKLE 
Slice  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt,  put  in  a  flour  sack 
and  let  hang  up  and  drip  over  night  Peel  one  dozen  onions,  slice  and 
put  in  a  little  black  pepper  and  six  small  pods  of  green  pepper,  and  if 
you  have  a  meat  chopper  it  is  much  easier  to  run  through  it  than  it  is  to 
cut  fine ;  add  a  quart  of  vinegar  and  cook  thirty  minutes.  If  you  hav> 
cabbage,  add  two  or  three  heads. — Miss  Ethel  Pate,  Ashville,  Ala. 

UNIVERSAL  PICKLE 
To  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  add  one-half  pint  of  salt,  two  ounces  each 
of  cloves,  spice,  mace,  ground  ginger^  black  pepper,  white  mustard  seed, 
one  pound  of  sugar,  a  large  box  of  mustard,  three  dozen  large  onions, 
one  dozen  pods  of  green  pepper,  one  ounce  of  horse-radish,  scraped  fine, 
five  cents'  worth  of  tumeric.  Mix  in  a  large  stone  jar ;  stir  frequently 
from  the  bottom,  and  keep  well  covered.  Wash,  wipe  dry  and  put  in 
your  vegetables  without  other  preparation.  You  may  put  in  any  kind 
of  vegetables  or  fruits  you  wish  at  any  time,  by  just  keeping  them  cov- 
ered with  vinegar. — Mbs.  W.  W,  Johnson,  Fruit  Hill  8.  G. 

UNIVERSAL  PICKLE 
Put  into  a  large  stone  jar  one  gallon  of  good  vinegar,  a  half  pint  of 

salt,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  ounces  each  of  black  pepper,  cinnamon, 
allspice,  cloves,  ginger,  mace,  a  box  of  ground  mustard,  a  cupful  of  white 
mustard  seed,  one  cupful  of  grated  horse-radish.  Mix  all  in  vinegar,  add 
three  dozen  small  onions,  cucumber,  gherkins,  slices  of  cabbage,  and 
beans.  Wipe  vegetables  dry  before  putting  into  vinegar ;  never  heat  the 
vinegar. — Mbs.  J.  W.  Hawkins,  Crawford,  Ga. 

WATERMELON  PICKLE 
Cut  the  white  part  of  one  large  melon  into  small  pieces,  soak  in  lime 
water  over  night — a  coffee  cupful  of  lime  to  one  gallon  of  water.  Wash, 
through  four  waters,  then  put  the  rind  in  cold  water  and  boil  till  tender. 
To  seven  pounds  of  melon  add  three  pounds  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  vine- 
gar, two  teaspoonsful  each  of  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  a 
sliced  lemon,  several  pieces  of  ginger  root  and  a  handful  of  raisins.  Boil 
all  together  till  done.  Put  in  jars  and  cover  while  hot — Mbs.  E.  J. 
Blow,  Jb.,  Teddy,  Ala. 

WILD  PLUM  SWEET  PICKLE 
Eight  pounds  of  fruit,  five  pounds  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  vinegar, 
two  tablespoonsful  each  of  cloves,  spice  and  cinnamon.  Boil  plums  till 
skins  begin  to  burst,  drain  them  and  pour  boiling  syrup  made  from  the 
above  quantities  of  sugar  and  vinegar  and  spices  given,  for  two  mornings. 
The  third  morning  nut  all  in  a  vessel  and  boil  till  tender.  These  pickles 
are  fine  eaten  with  fresh  meat— Mbs.  C.  C.  Bbcwne,  Ger mania.  Miss. 


RELISHES 


209 


RELISHES 


BEET  RELISH 
Take  a  cabbage  and  cut  fine,  add  about  one-half  its  bulk  in  cooked, 
chopped  or  ground  red  beets,  one-third  as  much  grated  horse-radish,  and 
cover  with  good  cider  vinegar. — Mbs.  M.  L.  Huffine,  Green  Camp, 
Ohio. 

CUCUMBER  RELISH 
Slice  as  many  cucumbers  and  large  onions  as  wanted,  not  too  thin. 
Salt  well  and  let  stand  three  hours.  Then  drain  in  colander,  have  ready 
vinegar  in  which  you  have  put  whole  spices  tied  in  muslin  bag.  Add  to 
this  brown  sugar  according  to  taste.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  drop 
in  cucumbers ;  let  simmer  slowly.  Do  not  boil  till  soft. — Mbs.  Fbank 
Reed,  Hilliard,  Fla. 

RIPE  TOMATO  RELISH 
One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  one  cupful  each  of  celery,  onions,  sweet 
peppers,  all  chopped  fine ;  one  cup  of  salt  Let  stand  over  night ;  in 
the  morning,  put  in  thin  flour  sack  and  let  drain  all  day.  In  the  eve- 
ning add  three  cupsful  of  good  cider-vinegar,  two  cupsful  of  sugar,  one- 
half  cupful  of  white  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoonsful  of  celery  seed,  one 
tablespoonful  of  ground  cinnamon ;  mix  well.  Turn  into  jar  and  cover 
closely.  Ready  for  use  in  five  days.  Excellent  with  aH  kinds  of  meat 
— M.  O.  S.  W.,  Katy,  Texas. 

TOMATO  RELISH 
Take  six  large  tomatoes  (canned  ones  will  do),  a  bunch  of  celery, 
six  medium-sized  onions,  two  red  peppers ;  peel  tomatoes  and  run  all 
through  food  chopper.  To  this  add  one  tablespoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish, one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  a  half  cupful  of  white  mustard 
seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mace,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  three  pints  of  cider-vinegar. 
Th;s  is  easy  to  make  as  it  requires  no  cooking  and  will  keep  without 
sealing. — Mbs.  G.  V.  Moseley,  Hattiesburg,  Miss, 

TOMATO  RELISH 
One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  chopped  and  drained,  add  two  cupsful  of 
chopped  celery,  six  cupsful  of  chopped  onions,  six  medium-sized  peppers, 
two  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  a  half  cupful  of  salt,  two  ounces  of 
white  mustard  seed,  two  ounces  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  and  a  half 
quarts  of  vinegar.  Mix  thoroughly  and  it  is  ready  for  use. — Mbs.  R.  L. 
Childebs,  Williston,  Fla. 

TOMATO  RELISH 
One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  six  onions  (chopped  fine),  two  pounds  of 
sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  a 
half  cupful  .of  salt,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cinnamon,  two  tablespoonsful 
of  mustard.    Chop  tomatoes  and  drain  in  colander.    Mix  all  together 


210 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


and  put  in  airtight  jars.  This  requires  no  cooking  and  is  delicious.— 
Mbs.  J.  A.  Fbazieb,  Hendersonville,  N.  C. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 
Simmer  for  ten  minutes  one-half  can  or  three  good-sized  fresh  toma- 
toes, one  chopped  onion,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon- 
ful  of  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves.  Rub  through  sieve,  cook  to- 
getner  one  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter,  one  minute.  Add  to- 
matoes gradually,  stir  till  smooth  and  simmer  five  minutes, — MBS.  F. 
M.  Pitts,  Anniston,  Ala. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 
Ripe  tomatoes  enough  to  make  eight  quarts  after  being  peeled  and 
cut  up  into  rather  small  pieces.  Put  them  into  a  lined  vessel — a  thick 
dishpan  is  all  right — and  place  on  the  stove,  which  should  be  rather  hot 
Now  add  two  cupsful  of  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  three  large 
green  peppers  chopped,  eight  large  onions  chopped,  three  teaspoonsful  of 
salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon.  Stir  well 
together  with  a  wooden  paddle  and  boil  one  hour.  Put  into  hot  dry 
jars  and  seal.  This  sauce  is  nice  to  serve  with  fresh  meats  and  vegeta- 
bles.— Mattie  Eabnest,  Winfield,  Ala. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 
Six  large  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  three  green  peppers,  one  large 
onion,  chopped  fine.  Mix  all  together  with  the  following :  One  tea- 
spoonful of  sugar,  three  tablespoonsful  of  vinegar,  salt  and  spice  to 
taste ;  stew  in  porcelain  sauce  pan  for  one-half  hour. — Mbs.  J.  W. 
Thompson,  Pitgah,  Ala. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 
Wash  and  quarter  good  ripe  tomatoes,  leaving  on  skins.  Run  through 
a  meat  chopper,  also  the  onions  and  green  peppers,  if  used.  To  one-half 
gallon  of  chopped  tomatoes,  add  one  large  onion  and  one  green  pepper, 
also  a  fourth  teaspoonful  of  spice,  cloves,  allspice,  and  cinnamon,  just  as 
you  like,  and  two-thirds  cupful  of  sugar,  with  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  often.  Seal  in  half-pint  wide- 
mouth  bottles,  using  cork  stoppers  and  sealing  wax.  Nice  to  eat  with 
fresh  meats  and  boiled  vegetables. — Mas.  J.  G.  Patillo,  LaOrange,  Oa. 

TOMATO  CHILI  SAUCE 
One  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes,  three  large  onions  (chopped),  eight 
green  peppers,  sight  cupsful  of  vinegar,  eight  tablespoonsful  of  salt,  one 
tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  one  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  eight  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  three-fourths  cup- 
ful of  mustard.  Boil  together  until  thick,  and  seal  while  hot — Rubt 
jEHifrsoN,  Ale&t&n,  La. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOT 
Two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced  without  peeling,  twelve  large 
onions,  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  and  a  half  pints  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonsful each  of  salt,  mustard  and  black  pepper,  one  tablespoonful  of 
allspice,  cinnamon,  ground.  Mix  and  stew  until  tender. — Elizabeth 
Booth  Parnell.  Browm,  Ala. 

TOMATO  SOT 

Ptte  t/aflrt*  of  g*e«n  tttaafcoes.  slieefl  thin :  twfcfr*  Uts*  Witom  two 

quarts  of  vinegar,  one  quart  of  ?ugar,  two  tablespoonsful  each  of  black 


RELISHES  —  TOMATO  CATSUP 


211 


Kpper,  mustard  and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves  and  epic*, 
it  all  in  a  kettle  and  let  boil  for  ten  minutes. — Mbs.  L.  C.  Hine.  Old 
Town,  N.  0. 

SPICED  TOMATOES 
Use  pear-shaped  tomatoes  if  possible.  Prick  two  or  three  times  with 
a  fork,  sprinkle  With  salt,  let  stand  over  night,  pack  in  glass  jars,  and 
cover  over  with  the  following  mixture :  One  pint  of  vinegar,  one  table- 
spoonful  each  of  ground  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  pepper  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Tie  spices  in  a  thin  muslin  bag.  Let  this  come  to 
boiling  point,  then  pour  it  into  the  jars  with  the  tomatoes  and  seal  im- 
mediately. This  is  enough  for  a  half-gallon  jar. — Mbs.  E.  J.  Blow,  Jb., 
Teddy,  Ala. 

SAUCE 

Six  large  onions,  six  green  peppers,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  half 
teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Chop  onions  and  pepper  very  fine,  put  in 
a  small,  deep  vessel ;  cover  with  vinegar.  Cover  vessel  and  let  simmer  for 
an  hour. — Mbs.  W.  E.  Ballard,  Hanceville,  Ala. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 
Select  fine,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  out  all  the  blemishes,  also  the  hard 
place  at  the  stem,  and  slice  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  filling  it  full. 
Add  a  pod  of  red  pepper  and  put  over  a  slow  fire  to  stew,  gradually  stir- 
ring to  prevent  burning.  When  reduced  to  half  its  original  quantity, 
strain  the  whole  through  a  sieve.  To  five  pounds  of  the  pulp  add  one 
and  a  half  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  cider-vinegar,  one  tablespoonful 
of  cloves,  one  of  allspice,  two  of  cinnamon  and  one  of  salt.  Put  the 
mixture  back  over  the  fire  and  boil  till  the  thickness  suits. — Miss  Annie 
Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 
Wash  tomatoes,  boil  and  strain  through  sieve.  To  four  quarts  of 
juice,  add  one  quart  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoonsful  of  ground  mustard, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  fine  salt,  two  tablespoonsful  of  black  pepper,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  teaspoonful 
of  cayenne  pepper,  a  half  pound  of  brown  sugar.  Boil  to  a  proper  eon- 
■iste  oy.  Strain  again,  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 
— MISS  RUBLE  M.  Cobseb,  Grand  Saline,  Texas. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 
One  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes  (do  not  peel),  one  teacupful  of  chopped 
onions.  Boil  together  until  perfectly  done,  strain  through  sieve ;  add  to 
this  one  pint  of  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  all- 
spice, two  teaspoonsful  of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
mace,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Mix 
well  and  put  in  a  lined  kettle ;  boil  until  thoroughly  thick,  and  bottle, 
using  new  corks. — Mbs.  J.  F.  E.,  Panama  City,  Fla. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 
One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  six  large  onions,  six  bell  peppers.  Cut 
up  the  above,  after  washing,  boil  together  until  tender  and  strain 
through  a  colander.  Mash  all  the  pulp  through :  the  thicker,  the  better 
the  catsup.  To  each  gallon  of  juice,  add  the  following:  One  quart  of 
good  apple  vinegar,  two  scent  tablespoonsful  of  ground  mustard,  two 
tablespoonsful  of  black  pepper,  two  scant  tablespoonsful  of  allspice  and 
ginger  mixed,  a  half  teacupfu  of  sugar,  five  tablespoonsful  of  salt  Boil 


212 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


several  hours  until  very  thick.  Stir  to  prevent  scorching.  Bottle  and 
seal  when  cold. — Mbs.  J.  L.  Sinclaib,  Tyler,  Ala. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 
Select  good  ripe  tomatoes,  scald  and  peel,  strain  through  a  coarse 
sieve ;  to  each  gallon,  when  cold,  add  three  tablespoonsful  each  of  salt 
and  ground  mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  ground  allspice,  a  half  tablespoonful  of  cloves,  one  pint  of  vine- 
gar. Simmer  slowly  three  hours ;  seal  while  hot — Mbs.  J.  T.  Cotman, 
JTeague,  Texas. 

PEPPER  CATSUP 
Take  one  quart  of  hot  peppers  (red  or  green),  one  and  a  half  pints 
of  onions,  chopped  fine.  Boil  in  clear  water  until  tender.  Run  through 
a  sieve,  add  one  cupful  of  strong  vinegar,  cloves  and  spices.  Place  on 
stove  and  boil  until  thick.  Put  in  a  sauce  bottle  and  seal.  If  not 
watery,  this  will  keep  indefinitely. — Mbs.  S.  L.  Culveb,  Deatsville,  Ala. 

MUSTARD 

Rub  three  teaspoonsful  of  mustard  in  warm  water  to  a  stiff  paste, 
add  a  half  cupful  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two 
eggs.  Set  the  dish  in  boiling  water  and  stir  until  thick ;  add  a  table- 
spoonful of  butter  and  sugar  to  taste,  stirring  until  dissolved. — MlSS 
Eva  E.  Eldbed,  Foley,  Ala. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE  FOR  MEATS 
One  teacupful  of  vinegar,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  half  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  celery  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter. — Mbs. 
R.  E.  Babwick,  Pace,  Miss. 

CHILI 

Two  pounds  of  ground  beef,  four  tablespoonsful  of  chili  powder,  four 
pods  of  chili  pepper,  pulverized,  with  seeds  removed,  a  half  teaspoonful 
of  pimento  berries,  pulverized,  a  half  teacupful  of  tallow,  garlic  the  size 
of  a  thimble ;  salt  to  taste. — Joe  Cbap,  Peach,  Texas. 

MEXICAN  CHILI 
Eight  pounds  of  beef,  boiled  and  ground,  one  ouoce  of  chili  pepper, 
one-pound  can  of  tomatoes,  one  and  a  half  gallons  of  water,  two  and  a 
half  pounds  of  fresh  tallow  or  fat  Flavor  with  onions  or  garlic  to  suit 
taste.  Stew  untU  thoroughly  mixed.  —  Elizabeth  Booth  Pabnell, 
Browns,  Ala. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

One  gallon  of  ripe  tomatoes  (after  skins  are  removed),  eight  large 
onions,  six  green  peppers,  all  chopped  fine,  eight  coffee  cupsful  of  vine- 
gar, eight  tablespoonsful  of  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  one  tablespoonful  of 
ground  cinnamon,  one  of  ground  allspice,  one  of  grated  nutmeg,  one  of 
cloves,  one  small  teacupful  of  mustard,  fixed  for  table  use.  Boil  all  to- 
gether until  it  thickens,  stirring  often.  Seal  while  hot  —  Mbs.  H.  R. 
Schoenbebg,  Worth,  S.  C. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

One  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  scalded  to  remove  skins,  ten  large  onions, 
one  cupful  of  green  pepper.  Chop  all  fine,  add  three-fourths  gallon  of 
vinegar,  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonsful  each  of  cin- 


RELISHES  —  CHOW-CHOW 


218 


namoa  and  cloves.  Boil  until  thick  as  desired. — Mbs.  B.  J.  Klnabd, 
Outhbert,  Qa. 

CHOW-CHOW 

Prepare  a  mixture  of  tiny  string  beans,  tender  cucumbers,  small 
onions,  a  cauliflower  or  cabbage,  chopped,  and  green  tomatoes  sliced ; 
add  four  or  six  hot  peppers.  Pack  in  jar  with  alternating  layers  of  salt. 
Keep  pressed  down  by  weight  on  top.  Leave  for  three  days,  then  drain, 
wash  and  soak  one  day  in  fresh  water.  To  make  the  pickle  vinegar,  cook 
together  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  celery  seed,  white 
mustard  seed,  whole  cloves,  whole  mace,  whole  black  peppers,  and  one 
pound  of  ground  horse-radish,  two  teaspoonsful  of  tumeric,  three  table- 
spoonsful  of  ground  mustard  and  one  and  a  half  cupsful  of  brown  sugar. 
When  this  comes  to  a  boil,  drop  in  pickles.  Let  simmer  five  minutes, 
then  dip  out  pickles,  put  in  stone  jar  and  pour  vinegar  over  and  let  stand 
two  days.  Then  drain  vinegar  off,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  powder 
and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  Then  pour  over  the  pickles  and  let  stand  till 
cold.  Put  in  small  jars  and  seal.  Ready  for  use  in  a  month. — Mbs. 
Cora  B.  Calvebt,  Stallo,  Miss. 

CHOW-CHOW 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine  and  drained,  one  good-sized 
head  cabbage,  six  large  onions,  six  large  green  peppers,  a  few  stalks  of 
celery,  all  chopped  separately,  and  then  mixed  and  cooked  until  tender, 
not  mushy ;  four  teaspoonsful  of  black  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  red 
pepper,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cloves,  four  teaspoonsful  of  cinnamon,  one 
scant  cupful  of  salt,  one  quart  of  good  vinegar,  four  cupsful  of  sugar. 
Mix  all  together  and  cook. — Mbs.  A.  J.  Bubdick,  Trout.  La. 

CHOW-CHOW 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  one-fourth  peck  of  white  onions,  one- 
fourth  pint  of  green  and  red  peppers,  mixed,  two  medium  heads  of  cab- 
bage, four  tablespoonsful  of  white  mustard,  two  tablespoonsful  of  cloves, 
two  tablespoonsful  of  allspice,  one  small  box  of  yellow  mustard,  one 
pound  of  sugar.  Slice  tomatoes,  let  stand  over  night  in  brine  that  will 
float  an  egg.  squeeze  out  brine.  Chop  cabbage,  onions  and  tomatoes  sep- 
arately, or  they  can  be  run  through  a  sausage  mill.  Mix  with  spices,  put 
all  in  porcelain  vessel  and  cover  well  in  vinegar,  then  add  two  cupsful  of 
water,  and  boil  three  hours. — Mbs.  B.  J.  Kinabd,  Cuthbert,  Qa. 

CHOW-CHOW 

Twenty-four  large  ripe  tomatoes,  seven  white  onions,  three  green  pep- 
pers, three  cupsful  of  white  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonsful of  salt.  Flavor  with  spices  and  tie  in  small  sacks  and  boil  in 
mixture.  To  prepare  :  Peel  and  slice  tomatoes  and  onions,  also  peppers, 
rather  fine.  Take  juice  and  boil  to  itself,  boil  other  things  also,  until 
both  have  boiled  low  ;  then  put  all  together  and  boil  again  until  it  seems 
done. — Mbs.  G.  M.  Pabkeb,  Roberts,  Ala. 

CHOW-CHOW 

Two  gallons  of  green  tomatoes,  one  large  head  of  cabbage,  a  half 
dozen  green  peppers,  a  half  dozen  red  peppers,  a  half  dozen  cucumbers, 
one  dozen  medium-sized  onions.  Chop  each  separately,  very  fine ;  mix 
all,  then  put  a  layer  of  the  mixture  and  sprinkle  of  salt  alternately  in  a 
bag  and  hang  all  night  to  drain.  In  the  morning,  squeeze  perfectly  dry 
with  the  bands  and  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Let  set  six 
hours  and  squeeze  as  before.  Season  with  one  cupful  of  mustard  seed, 
three  tablespoonsful  of  celery  seed,  two  teaspoonsful  of  ground  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves.   Mix  all  well  and  add  one  pound 


214 


FAVOEITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


of  broKn  sugar.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  ten  minutes.  Seal  up  is 
f  lass  jan  while  hot — Ehma  Akebb,  Hilliard,  Flo, 

CHOW-CHOW 

Two  pounds  of  chopped  cabbage,  one  gallon  of  chopped  green  toma- 
toes, four  large  chopped  onions,  six  chopped  cucumbers,  three  pods  of 
chopped  green  pepper,  two  tablespoonsful  of  salt  Soak  this  over  night 
and  squeeze  out  next  morning,  then  add  one  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper, 
ground,  two  teaspoonsful  of  cloves  and  spice,  ground,  two  cupsful  of 
sugar.  Put  into  one-half  gallon  of  boiling  vinegar  and  can  as  soon  as  all 
have  boiled  about  ten  minutes.— Mbs.  C.  M.  Langford,  Lena,  Mtis. 


BEVERAGES 


215 


BEVERAGES 


DEWBERRY  ACID 
Six  quarts  of  berries,  five  ounces  of  tartaric  acid.  (Use  an  earthen- 
ware or  granite  vessel.)  First  put  in  a  layer  of  berries,  sprinkle  over 
acid,  another  layer  of  berries,  then  acid,  and  so  on,  until  all  are  used, 
having  acid  on  top.  Let  stand  forty-two  hours.  Strain.  To  every  pint 
of  juice  allow  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar.  In  a  week  or 
ten  days  strain  again  and  bottle.  Allow  one  or  two  tablespoousful  to  a 
glass  of  ice  water ;  sweeten  to  taste. — Mbs.  T.  E.  Elliot,  Vincent,  Ala. 

BLACKBERRY  ACID 
To  two  gallons  of  berries  pour  three-fourths  gallon  of  boiling  water, 
let  stand  twenty-fo^r  hours,  strain,  and  to  each  quart  of  juice  add  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  four  ounces  of  tartaric  acid ;  let  stand  twenty-four 
hours  again,  strain  through  a  muslin  cloth,  bottle  or  jug,  set  aside  for 
three  or  four  days  ;  it  is  then  ready  for  use.  One  tablespoonful  to  small 
glass  of  ice  water  is  generally  strong  enough.  Add  crushed  ice  to  pure 
juice  or  acid,  if  liked,  and  cut  loaf  or  other  kind  of  sugar.  It  is  one  of 
the  most  refreshing  home-made  drinks  imaginable. — E.  H.,  Slidell,  La. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL 
Place  the  berries  in  water  on  the  stove  and  cook  for  awhile.  Put  a 
bag  containing  mace,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  spice  in  this,  and  soak  until 
»jady  to  strain.  Strain  and  sweeten  well  and  pour  into  it  one  cupful 
of  whiskey  to  one  gallon  of  syrup.  Do  not  cook  too  long. — Mbs.  H.  S. 
Dale. 

GRAPE  JUICE 
Remove  the  stems  from  six  quarts  of  grapes  and  put  them  over  the 
fire  with  a  quart  of  water ;  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  strain. — Mbs. 
Likix  Swango,  Maytown,  Ky. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

Cook  the  grapes  and  strain ;  do  not  press  much,  but  let  drain. 
Sweeten  to  taste.  Let  come  to  a  boil  again,  and  can  as  you  would  fruit 
When  you  open  a  can,  if  it  is  too  rich,  weaken  with  a  little  water.  Serve 
in  small  glasses  or  custard  cups.  It  is  nice  for  dessert  with  cake. — Mba. 
W.  H.  Gudgeb,  Ellijay,  Ga. 

WINE 

To  two  quarts  of  fruit  add  three  quarts  of  cold  water  and  three 
pounds  of  sugar.  Fill  vessel  and  seal  air-tight;  let  stand  six  months 
without  opening;  only  turn  vessel  occasionally  to  shake  contents.  At 
the  end  of  six  months,  open,  strain  and  bottle,  and  you  will  have  an  ex- 
cellent wine.  Any  fruit  may  be  used. — Mbs.  W.  R.  Shannon,  Jeffer- 
son, S.  O. 

UNFERMENTED  WINE 
Boil  grapes  of  any  kind  over  a  slow  fire  till  the  pulp  has  thoroughly 
separated  from  the  skin,  adding  just  enough  water  to  prevent  burning  at 


216 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


the  bottom  of  the  vessel,  then  press  the  juice  through  a  fine  eloth,  and 
add  one-fourth  of  its  weight  of  sugar ;  bring  the  juice  to  boiling  point 
and  can  in  air-tight  jars.  This  will  keep  for  years. — Mbs.  K.  A.  Lut- 
sra,  Survey,  Fla. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 
Cook  two  cupsful  of  water  and  two  cupsful  of  sugar  for  ten  minutes. 
In  another  boiler  cook  a  can  of  shredded  pineapple,  bringing  the  latter 
to  boiling  point,  then  set  off.  Strain  through  a  cheese  cloth  the  juice 
of  three  oranges  and  three  lemons,  also  the  pineapple  and  a  cupful  of 
grape  juice  ;  add  this  to  the  water  and  sugar,  then  add  a  cupful  of  coffee 
or  tea  ;  add  some  preserved  strawberries.  Put  this  in  a  pitcher  or  punch 
bowl  and  pour  in  some  soda  water —  about  three  bottles.  —  Rachel 
Powell,  Woolsey,  Ga. 

DRINK  FOR  INVALIDS 
Put  in  the  bottom  of  a  wine  glass  two  tablespoonsful  of  grape  juice ; 
add  to  this  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg  and  a  little  chopped  ice  ;  sprinkle 
sugar  over  the  top  and  serve. — Thornton  Pearl  Hall,  Acworth,  Ga. 

ORANGE  TEA 

Six  juicy  oranges,  juice  of  all,  and  grated  rind  of  three ;  juice  of  two 
lemons,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  water.  Dissolve  sugar  in  the 
water,  and  add  juice  of  fruit ;  freeze. — Miss  May  Walker,  Sugar  Val- 
ley, Ga. 

COCOA 

One  tablespoonful  of  cocoa,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  and  two 
of  sugar.  Moisten  all,  after  mixing  well,  with  cold  water  or  milk.  Add 
hot  water  and  milk,  or  milk  alone  if  at  hand,  to  make  four  or  five  cups- 
ful. Put  on  the  fire  and  boil,  but  watch  carefully  or  it  will  boil  over. 
As  soon  as  it  boils  hard  it  is  ready  to  serve. — Mrs.  N.  K.  Williams, 
Gaebis,  Cuba. 

COFFEE 

The  green  coffee  is  put  on  and  slowly  baked  inside  the  oven,  with  an 
occasional  stirring  to  brown  all  alike.  The  slow  baking  process  retains 
all  the  natural  flavor  and  aroma  of  the  coffee.  Grind  it  as  it  is  used  and 
allow  one  tablespoonful  of  grounds  to  each  teacupful  of  water.  Put  the 
grounds  in  a  dripper  and  pour  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  in  the 
percolator  at  intervals  until  there  is  enough  coffee  made.  This  coffee  is 
clear,  strong  and  a  delicious  beverage. — Mrs.  D.  H.  Rust,  Pelican,  La. 


MISCELLANEOUS  —  OMELETS 


217 


MISCELLANEOUS 


STANDBYS 

While  preparing  the  dinner  bread  of  whatsoever  kind,  make  up  the 
supper  biscuit  with  buttermilk  and  soda,  adding  a  bit  of  extra  soda  (vary 
according  to  weather — more  in  summer).  Make  these  out  and  crowd 
into  a  well-greased  biscuit  pan.  Cover  with  a  cloth  and  set  aside  till 
just  time  to  have.hot  for  supper.  In  warm  weather  have  the  oven  hot 
when  you  put  them  in ;  but  in  cold  weather  set  the  pan  within,  as  the 
fire  is  built,  so  as. to  rise. — Mbs.  G.  A.  Taylob,  Bolingbroke,  Oa. 

OMELET 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  they  are  light,  add  three  table* 
spoonsful  of  sweet  milk,  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  whites  very  light  and  add  to  this.  Put  a  little 
lard  in  a  frying  pan.  Let  it  get  very  hot  and  put  the  omelet  in ;  when 
it  browns  on  the  bottom,  set  the  frying  pan  in  the  oven  until  the  top 
crusts  over.  Score  it  across  the  middle  with  a  knife,  fold  it  over  and 
turn  it  out  of  the  pan  into  a  dish  garnished  with  lettuce  or  parsley.  A 
half  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  added  when  the  milk  is  added  makes  a  nice 
bread  omelet.  A  half  cupful  of  cold  baked  chicken  or  ham  is  also  a 
dainty  addition,  and  can  be  added  with  the  milk  or  spread  over  the  top. 
Orange  juice  added  instead  of  milk,iand  sugar  instead  of  salt  and  pep- 
per, makes  a  lovely  dish  for  tea. — Miss  Norma  Davis,  North,  S.  C. 

BAKED  OMELET 
Beat  thoroughly  three  eggs,  add  three  tablespoonsful  of  floor,  one 
and  a  half  cupsful  of  rich  milk,  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  Moisten 
the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  milk  before  adding  to  the  other  ingredients. 
Butter  a  deep  iron  skillet,  and  when  hot  pour  in  the  mixture  and  place 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Bake  till  the  omelet  is  light,  and  delicately 
browned.  When  done  run  a  broad-bladed  knife  around  the  edge  and  roll 
the  omelet  out  carefully  on  to  a  hot  platter.  Serve  at  once. — Mbs.  C.  E. 
Pleas,  Chipley,  Fla. 

SWEET  OMELET 
Sift  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs ;  beat  well,  then  gradually  add  a  half 
cupful  of  milk,  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract,  and  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Melt  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  in 
a  small  frying  pan  or  omelet  pan,  pour  in  the  mixture  and  cook  slow'y 
until  set  Brown  the  top  in  the  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  sugared  plate, 
putting  one  tablespoonful  of  jam  or  jelly  in  the  center.  Fold  omelet 
quickly  and  serve  hot — Mbs.  Annie  McDonald,  Dry  Creek,  N.  C. 

BAKED  EGG  OMELET 
Take  four  eggs,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, one  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  salt  to  taste ;  beat  eggs  separately. 
Into  the  yolks,  well  beaten,  add  the  flour,  melted  butter,  salt  and  milk : 


a*  FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 

then  mix  well.  Lastly,  fold  in  the  beaten  white*.  Set  in  store  to  bak«. 
Sarve  hot— Mes.  T.  C.  Mukphy,  Union,  S.  0. 

CHEAP  OMELET 
One  cupful  of  bread  crumbs,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  two 
eggs,  beaten  and  stirred  in,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  butter.   Place  in  oven 
until  it  sets.    If  cheese  is  liked,  sprinkle  over  the  top  and  brown. — - 
Maude  McMichael,  Charlotte,  A7.  C. 

TO  PREPARE  EGG  FOR  AN  INVALID 
Beat  the  yolk  and  white  separately  until  extremely  light,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  pour  into  a  china  cup,  which  set  in  a  sauce  pan  of  hot  water,  stir- 
ring constantly  till  scalded,  but  not  cooked.  When  this  is  done,  the  egg 
just  thickens  slightly,  but  puffs  until  the  cup  is  almost  filled  with  creamy 
custard.  Set  in  the  oven  a  minute  and  serve  at  once. — Mes.  J.  H.  Mu> 
lee,  Fruit  dale,  Ala. 

OUIJA  EGGS 

Four  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Put 
flour  in  bowl,  wet  to  a  smooth  paste  with  milk,  drop  eggs  in  whole,  prick 
yolks  to  break  them.  Stir  until  yolk  is  blended  with  milk  mixture,  but 
leave  whites  unbroken  as  much  as  possible.  Cook  slowly  in  skillet  until 
almost  done,  then  brown  in  oven. — Mes.  C.  F.  Ubmey,  South  Hill,  Va. 

POOR-WOMAN  EGGS 
Heat  a  little  butter  in  an  earthenware  dish  and  then  break  six  or 
more  (or  less)  eggs  into  it,  and  sprinkle  fresh  bread  crumbs  over  them. 
Set  the  dish  in  the  oven  and  cook  for  two  minutes,  or  until  the  eggs  turn. 
Add  salt,  pepper  and  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil.  Flavor  with  a  little 
garlic  and  serve  hot — Mes.  Doba  Goode,  Goldthwaite,  Texas, 

STUFFED  EGGS 
Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  half  lengthwise,  and  put  whites  aside  in  pairs. 
Rub  yolks  through  colander,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  mustard, 
lemon  juice,  and  vinegar.  Work  to  a  smooth  paste  with  melted  butter 
or  cream.  Fill  whites  and  press  together.  —  Maude  Babkeb,  Davilla, 
Texas. 

STUFFED  EGGS 
Take  as  many  hard-boiled  eggs  as  desired,  cut  in  halves,  and  remove 
yellows.  Add  a  small  amount  of  fried  ham,  chopped,  also  butter,  salt 
pepper,  pickles  (chow-chow  is  good,  or  chopped  cucumber  pickles  may 
be  used),  and  vinegar  enough  to  make  it  all  work  together  well.  Add 
a  little  pepper  sauce  with  mustard  mixed  in.  Mix  all  this  with  the  yel- 
lows, and  then  put  as  much  as  you  can  into  the  whites,  and  use  the  re- 
mainder to  spread  between  crackers  as  a  sandwich. — Mes.  C.  M.  Lahq- 
foed,  Lena,  Mist. 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN 
Divide  six  hard-boiled  eggs  into  halves,  lengthwise,  and  place  in  a 
circle  around  dish.  Prepare  a  sauce  as  follows :  Melt  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a 
dash  of  paprika,  one-half  teacupful  of  water,  one-half  teacupful  of  sour 
eream,  two  tablespoonsful  of  grated  cheese.  Boil  three  minutes,  add 
yolks  of  two  raw  eggs ;  mix  well  and  pour  over  the  eggs,  sprinkle  with 
cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven :  sprinkle 
top  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once.  This  is  a  suesrestive  Easter 
dish,  pleasing  to  eye  and  palate. — Mes.  Gbace  Shull,  Qoodland,  Kans. 

CHEESE  FONDU 
First  grate  or  crumb  crackers  over  bottom  of  the  pan.   Then  grate 
one-fourth  to  one-half  pound  of  cheese,  pour  in  one  pint  of  sweet  milk, 


MISCELLANEOUS  —  COOKING  HINTS 


219 


two  eggs,  small  amount  of  baking  powder,  and  salt  Bake  moderately 
and  serve  hot. — Anonymous. 

CREAM  CHEESE 
Fill  a  crock  half  full  of  fresh  or  skim  milk  and  place  on  back  of  stove 
where  it  will  keep  warm  enough  to  clabber  quickly,  then  fill  the  crock 
with  boiling  water,  which  makes  the  clabber  the  right  consistency  to  put 
to  drain.  Regular  tin  press  may  be  used  for  this  purpose,  though  a  mus- 
lin bag  could  be  substituted.  Clabber  should  be  put  to  drain  the  evening 
before,  and  in  the  morning  serve  with  plenty  of  sweet  whipped  cream. — 
MBS.  Chas.  A.  Lindet,  Whistler,  Ala. 

CHEESE  STRAWS 
One-fourth  pound  of  flour,  white  of  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one  pound 
of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  half  teasponful  of  salt 
Mix  well  with  cold  water,  roll  out  thin,  and  bake  in  strips. — Mbs.  E.  H. 
Nivens,  Rockdale,  Texas. 

A  FEW  HINTS 

When  too  late  to  cook  greens  some  day,  throw  away  the  tops,  peel, 
slice  and  fry  the  turnips  the  same  as  Irish  potatoes,  adding  a  little  water 
to  keep  from  sticking.   Add  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar  if  you  like. 

Put  a  handful  of  caraway  seeds  in  your  next  sugar  cookies,  and  eat 
with  cheese. — Mbs.  J.  H.  Millek,  Fruitdale,  Ala. 

A  FEW  HINTS 
If  yon  want  to  bake  an  old  fowl  so  that  every  one  will  want  to  know 
how  you  managed  to  get  it  so  tender  and  juicy,  kill  it  twenty-four  hours 
before  you  want  to  use  it.  After  it  is  dressed  and  washed  well,  pour 
vinegar  over  it  and  let  stand  for  several  hours,  then  boil  until  done  and 
let  it  stay  in  the  water  it  was  cooked  in  until  ready  to  use,  then  brown  in 
a  hot  oven ;  a  slow  oven  will  dry  it  out  too  much. 

Cream  of  tomato  soup  is  my  standby  for  a  quick  dinner,  or  unex- 
pected company.  Take  one  pint  can,  or  fresh  tomatoes,  and  add  one  pint 
of  water ;  a  pinch  of  soda  will  hasten  the  cooking.  Boil  fifteen  minutes 
and  when  ready  to  serve  have  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
mixed  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  let  the  milk 
come  to  a  boil,  mix  and  serve  at  once. 

I  have  found  that  buttermilk  yeast  cakes  make  the  best  bread  that  I 
have  ever  eaten.  To  make  the  yeast  cakes,  take  one  pint  of  fresh  butter- 
milk, put  it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  nearly  to  boiling,  set  it  off,  let  it 
cool  and  stir  in  corn  meal  until  it  is  a  very  thick  batter ;  then  add  one 
yeast  cake  of  any  kind,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise,  a  day  and  a  night ;  then,  when  it  is  cracked  well  on  top. 
add  meal  and  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  make  into  cakes  and  dry  in  the  sun. 
After  standing  awhile,  if  water  rises  on  top,  stir  in  more  meal. 

To  make  four  loaves  of  bread,  take  three  quarts  of  flour,  add  salt, 
lard,  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  warm  water,  finish 
making  up  with  warm  water  or  sweet  milk ;  knead  well  and  place  in 
bucket  to  rise.  When  it  rises  until  it  doubles  its  size,  rework  and  make 
into  loaves  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Grease  on  top  with  lard 
or  butter. — Mbs.  R.  L.  Bybd,  Smith's  Station,  Ala. 

THREE  COURSES 
At  college  when  we  entertain  at  liarht  informal  luncheons,  or  even  at 
receptions  at  home,  we  always  include  in  the  menu  three  courses  which 


220 


FAVORITE  SOUTHERN  RECIPES 


alone  make  up  an  appetizing  lunch  :  Chocolate  a  la  marshmallow,  cheese 
sandwiches,  and  banana  salad.  Our  one  indispensable  drink  during  the 
long  winter  nights  is  hot  chocolate.  We  use  either  cocoa  or  chocolate, 
one  teaspoonful  to  a  cup,  mixed  well  in  hot  water  before  adding  the  milk 
— half  a  cupful,  together  with  half  a  cupful  of  hot  water  to  each  cupful 
of  chocolate,  to  be  mixed  slowly  and  stirred  until  well  dissolved.  When 
boiling,  a  dozen  or  more,  or  less,  marshmallows  are  dropped  in  and 
stirred  until  a  thick,  white  cream  forms  on  top.  It  is  then  poured  in 
small  china  cups  and  a  marshmallow,  toasted  to  a  light  brown,  is  dropped 
in  each.  This  gives  the  beverage  a  new  and  delightful  flavor  and  is  an 
excellent  substitute  for  whipped  cream. 

Cheese  sandwiches,  the  second  relish,  are  often  served  with  chocolate, 
because  so  easily  prepared.  We  melt  fresh  cheese  to  a  soft,  hot  consis- 
tency and  when  real  hot  add  eggs  prepared  for  scrambling  and  chopped 
up  stuffed  olives ;  cool  only  a  few  moments,  and  while  still  hot,  serve  on 
toasted  crackers.   If  desired,  the  olives  may  be  served  separately. 

Banana  salad  is  the  most  delicious  of  all.  Pare  ripe  bananas,  cut  in 
two  (lengthwise)  and  spread  over  with  chopped  nuts  and  celery ;  season 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  mix  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing.  If 
put  on  ice,  or  in  a  cool  place,  an  hour  before  serving  it  is  much  better. 

A  favorite  dish,  however,  is  creamed  sweetbreads.  We  parboil  sweet- 
breads (one  pair)  until  tender,  and  when  cool  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Heat  one  cupful  of  cream  in  double  boiler.  Mix  well  one  tablespoonful 
of  cooking  oil  with  one  level  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour,  and  stir  in  two 
tablespoonful  of  cold  milk  ;  pour  the  hot  cream  gradually  on  the  mixture 
and  cook  all  for  fifteen  minutes.  Put  in  sweetbreads,  one-half  can  of 
mushrooms,  four  finely  chopped  truffles,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and,  just 
before  serving,  two  tablespoonsful  of  sherry. — Ida  C.  Kline,  Columbus, 
Miss. 

HOME  HELPS 

If  you  should  scorch  vegetables  while  cooking,  place  utensil  immedi- 
ately in  a  pan  of  cold  water.  Do  not  stir,  and  unless  scorched  badly,  it 
can  hardly  be  detected. 

Put  a  small  lump  of  lard  in  starch  while  cooking  and  clothes  will 
iron  easier. 

Add  a  little  sugar  to  pancakes  and  see  if  they  are  not  improved. 

Add  a  little  flour  and  sugar  to  egg-bread  and  relish  it  the  more. 

Make  dressing  for  pot  roasts  just  as  you  would  for  chicken  or  turkey. 

Put  eggs  in  dressing  before  baking  ;  it  is  much  better. 

Wash  axle  grease  or  black  oil  stains  in  turpentine  or  coal  oil  before 
placed  in  water  and  the  stains  will  come  out 

Hard-boiled  eggs  mashed  fine  and  mixed  in  potato  salad  improves  it 
very  much. — Mbs.  Sam  W.  Floubnoy,  Elk  City,  Okla. 

SALVE 

Take  equal  parts  of  pine  rosin,  bees  wax  and  lard,  melt  together, 
strain  through  a  cloth.  It  is  the  finest  dressing  for  blisters.— Mbs. 
Nancy  M.  Strickland,  Alpliaretta,  Oa. 

BABY  FOOD 

Take  a  quart  of  fresh  sweet  milk,  as  much  powdered  pepsin  as  will 
stand  on  the  point  of  a  pocket  knife,  dissolve  in  a  teaspoonful  of  cold 
water ;  stir  in  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  vessel,  hold  over  a  lamp  and  bring 
to  a  gradual  heat— milk-warm  will  clabber  it   Pour  in  a  cloth,  squeeze 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


221 


gently  at  first,  then  hard,  so  as  to  get  out  cream.  Sweeten  milk,  then  it 
is  ready  to  use. — MBS.  J.  O.  Goolsbt,  Oraham,  Ga. 

KUMISS  FOR  DIETARY 
One  scant  quart  of  milk,  a  half  cake  of  compressed  yeast,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar ;  dissolve  the  yeast  thoroughly  into  a  tablespoonful  of 
the  milk,  add  the  sugar  to  same  amount  of  water  (boiling  hot).  Mix  all 
together  with  the  remaining  milk,  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  Set  in  warm 
place  near  fire  until  it  beads,  then  remove  to  cold  place.  Ready  for  use 
in  twenty-four  hours. — Mrs.  Chandler,  Istachatta,  Fla. 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


We  received  quite  a  number  of  duplicate  recipes  from  subscribers. 
Lack  of  space  prevents  our  being  able  to  print  all  of  these ;  therefore, 
we  give  below  a  list  of  names  sending  in  auplicates,  to  whom  a  copy  of 
the  cook  book  will  be  sent : 

Mrs.  Glenn  Baxter,  Louisville,  Ala. 

Miss  Dora  McKenzie,  Wewahitchka,  Fla. 

Mrs.  J.  F.  Harris,  Camden,  Ala. 

Miss  Mary  B.  Zittranes,  Marlow,  Ga. 

Thornton  Pearl  Hall,  Route  1,  Box  11,  Acworth,  Ga. 

Mrs.  J.  N.  Potter,  Hilliard,  Fla. 

Mrs.  Nora  H.  Davis,  Lakeland,  Texas. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Huffine,  Green  Camp,  Ohio. 

Mrs.  Chas.  G.  Medlin,  Route  4,  Salisbury,  N.  C. 

Mrs.  Edith  Turner,  Cowpens,  S.  C. 

Mrs.  C.  G.  Story,  Ellabell,  Ga. 

Mrs.  S.  M.  Pierce,  Weatherford,  Texas. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Weathers,  Route  3,  Celeste,  Texas. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Taylor.  Route  1.  Box  31.  Anderson,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Wiley,  Robertsdale,  Ala. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hines,  Route  6,  Franklin,  Ga. 

Mrs.  Dora  Goode,  Goldthwaite,  Texas. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Porter,  Senatobia,  Miss. 

Mrs.  E.  Sanders,  Scottdale,  Ga. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Pleas,  Chipley,  Ga. 

Mrs.  Mynor  E.  Hendrix,  Bright,  Ga. 

Mrs.  L.  H.  Walker,  Madison,  Ga. 

Mrs.  A.  Penn,  Bolton,  Miss. 

Mi6«  Lena  Gaskin,  Newton,  Texas. 

Miss  Nancy  J.  Haven,  Bear,  La. 

Miss  Nabe  Jones,  New  Lexington,  Ala. 

Mrs.  F.  E.  Wallis,  Route  1,  Box  50,  Gainesville,  1  exas. 

Miss  Agnes  Hiers,  Clito,  Ga. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Urmey,  South  Hill,  Va. 

Mrs.  L.  B.  Roberts,  Magnolia,  Miss. 

Miss  Nettie  McPearson,  Sardis,  La. 

Miss  Eula  Wilder,  Cantonment,  Fla. 

Mrs.  H.  O.  Lacy,  Oxford,  La. 

Mrs.  B.  J.  Kinard,  Cuthbert.  Ga. 

Mrs.  J.  8.  Taylor,  Route  9.  Elberton,  Ga. 

Mrs.  F.  M.  Bishop,  Holly  Springs,  Ga. 

Mrs.  F.  G.  Pattillo,  Route  2,  LaGrange,  Ga. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Malloy,  Smith  Station,  Ala. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Parkman,  Route  5,  Box  42,  Greenville,  Ala. 

Miss  Martha  L.  McCracken,  Route  1,  Box  75,  Ralph,  Ala, 


ACKNOWLEDGMENT 


Mrs.  J.  L.  Donaldson,  Charlotte,  N.  C. 

Mrs.  S.  M.  Upshaw,  Route  1,  Box  31,  Dexter,  Ga. 

Mrs.  F.  T.  Hudson,  Route  4,  Dexter,  Ga» 

lirs.  J.  R.  Gable,  Sharpsburg,  Ga, 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Mason,  Casco,  Va. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Frazier,  Hendersonville,  N.  C, 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Smith,  Route  3,  Sanford,  Fla. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Mitchell,  Slate  Spring,  Miss. 

Daisey  Keyton,  Waycross,  Ga. 

Miss  Virginia  Nelson,  Harbor  View,  Fla- 

Mrs.  T.  S.  Howard,  Cnildress,  Vau 

Miss  Ruby  Jennison,  Alexton,  Ala. 

Mrs.  H.  P.  Salley,  Antreville,  S.  C. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Gleason,  Gahagan,  La. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Partridge,  Loxley,  Ala. 

Miss  Lydia  Blackwell,  Driftwood,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Judson  McConnell,  Mt  Airy,  Ga. 

Mrs.  Mamie  Cumming,  Albany,  Ky. 

Mrs.  M.  T.  Wiley,  Mission,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Alexander,  DeValls  Bluff,  Ark. 

Mrs.  N.  R.  Lightfoot    No  address. 

Mrs.  C.  J.  Goolsby,  Monticello,  Ga. 

Miss  Laura  Ward,  Edwards,  Miss. 

Irene  Crownover,  Route  1,  Bridgeport,  Ala. 

Mrs.  Belle  Whitaker,  Gibtown,  Texas. 

Miss  Eloise  Tisdale,  Chatawa,  Miss. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Jaudson,  Hughes  Springs,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Lottie  Rhodes,  Route  1,  Gibsland,  La. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Cole,  Mountain  City,  Tenn. 

Mrs.  Annie  McDonald,  Dry  Creek,  N.  C. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Pearson,  62  S.  Weden  St.,  St.  Augustine,  Fla. 

Mrs.  G.  V.  Mosley,  R.  F.  D.  fto.  2,  Box  106,  Hattiesburg,  Miss. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Pluss,  Laurens,  S.  C. 

Mrs.  H.  A.  Woodruff,  Century,  Fla. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Smith,  Webster,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Iva  Mitchell,  Borom,  Ala. 

Miss  Nena  Irene  Brandon,  Keener,  Ala. 

Rachel  Powell,  Woolsey,  Ga. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Brownlee,  Brownlee,  S.  C. 

Miss  May  Little,  Kennedale^  Texas. 

Mrs.  G.  N.  Clower,  Falkville,  Ala. 

Mrs.  Mary  Bristes,  Cole*,  Miss.-*- 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Orr,  Sisco,  Fla. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  Beason,  Gurley,  Ala. 

Mrs.  Frank  Arnold,  Route  4,  Ira,  6.  C. 

Miss  Maud  Cross,  Gaiter,  Fla. 

Mrs  Peyton  H.  Colquit,  Mira,  La. 

Mrs.  Emmett  Willis,  Boca  Grande,  Fla, 

Mrs.  J.  H.  McAnn,  Jacksboro,  Texas. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Smith,  Mansfield,  Ga. 

Mrs.  John  McDowell,  Vernon,  La. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Myers,  Byhalla,  Miss. 

Mrs.  W.  N.  Cummins.  Felix,  Ala. 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Lawhon,  Taylor,  Texas. 

Mrs.  Eva  Cloer,  Ethelsville.  Ala. 

Miss  Maggie  Squyros,  Sicily  Isj§nd,  la 

Mrs.  G.  D.  Malone,  Keener.  Ala. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Childers.  Williston,  Fl* 

Mrs.  A.  R.  Ware,  j^reenville,  S.  C, 


\ 


f 


I 


/ 


THIS  noo% 

GIVEN  FREE  AS  A  PREMIUM 
WSTH 

a  ti&ee  YzrtmB  subscription 

TO  THE 
SPWfHEk^  I2UR.4UWT 

AT  ONE  DOLLAR 


