»V-1-T-     JJJ        •-.»■ 


Al 


/ 


North  Carolir 


i^idfy 


N.  C. 
Doc 


fx 


of  NORTH  CAROLINA 


N^ 


# 


/ 


^ 


13low  to  follow 

the   recipes ! 


1.  Use    standard    measuring   cups    and    spoons. 

2.  Use  level  nieasiirements. 

3.  Sift  flour  once  before  measuring  (in  bak- 
ing recipes). 

4.  Recipes  are  made  with  all-purpose  flour  un- 
less otherwise  stated. 

5.  Oven  temperatures: 

Slow,  up  to 300°    F. 

Moderately  slow    300°    to  325°   F. 

Moderate    325°   to   375°   F. 

Moderately  hot 375°   to  400°    F. 

Hot    400°   to  450°   F. 

Very  hot 450°    to  500°   F. 

6.  The  size  and  shape  of  your  baking  pan 
often  affects  the  quality  of  your  finished 
product.  When  you  have  determined  which 
of  your  pans  is  the  right  size,  note  it  on 
your  recipe. 

7.  The  number  of  the  servings  indicated  on  the 
recipes  is  only  a  guide. 


Dedirated  to  the  North 
Carolina  dairy  industry  and 
to   the  women   of  this   State. 


This  Cook  Book  is  n  Tribute  to 
the  Foster  Mother  of  the  Human 
Race  whose  Dairy  Products  have 
made   America    strons   and   mishty. 


f^ 


^M^ 


i^ 


TV 


>t,,^L 


m  >^ 


K 


HE  STORY  OF  THIS  BOOK 

For  a  loiii;  tinii'  there  has  been  a  desire  among  North  Carolina 
women  for  a  liook  eontainin<;  practical  dairy  reci|)es  and  suggestions 
for  more  nutritious  and  zestful  meals.  It  is  true  that  there  are  scores 
and  scores  of  cook  books,  but  the  State  Department  of  Agriculture 
observed  the  need  for  a  recipe  book  with  an  Old  North  State  flavor. 
We  have  answered  the  challenge  bv  producing  this  book  devoted  to 
recipes.  Many  of  them  are  as  new  and  as  modern  as  the  dairy  plants 
which  (lot  the  North  Carolina  landscape:  others  are  as  old  as  the 
State. 

In  this  book  vou  will  find  recipes  for  "Hush  Puppies,"' 
"Southern  Corn  Bread,"'  and  "Mammy's  Fried  Pies,"  as  well  as 
recipes  for  "Deep  Dish  Peach  Pie."'  "Noodles  Romanoff,"  and 
"Shrimp  Fondue.""  They  are  all  here,  and  all  have  been  tested  by 
North  Carolina  housewives  and  the  home  economists  of  highly 
reputable  firms  throughout  the  Nation. 


THOUSANDS  ASSIST  WITH  BOOK 

Officials  of  the  State  Department  of  Agriculture  originated  the  idea 
for  "Favorite  Recipes"  and  followed  the  book  closely  from  the  idea 
to  the  reality.  The  Wisconsin  Department  of  Agriculture  rendered 
invaluable  assistance  from  time  to  time,  having  published  last  year 
a  cook  book  for  the  women  of  that  State.  The  North  Carolina  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  is  indeed  grateful  for  this  aid.  Thousands  of 
women  in  this  State  and  in  other  States  have  contrijjuted  to  this 
l)ook  through  their  year-after-vear  employment  of  the  recipes  pre- 
sented in  it. 


RECIPES  CAREFULLY  CHOSEN 

Miss  \ork  Kiker,  home  economist  and  dairv  marketing  specialist 
with  the  Department,  carefully  selected  all  recipes  contained  in 
"Favorite  Recipes."  In  choosing  these  recipes.  Miss  Kiker  studied 
scores  of  cook  books  and  consulted  hundreds  of  housewives  through- 
out the  State  regarding  their  favorite  recipes. 


MILK   PRODUCTION  IN  NORTH  CAROLINA 

From  1925  to  1944  milk  cows  on  the  farms  of  this  State  increased 
over  33  per  cent,  milk  production  increased  approximately  35  per 
cent,  and  the  production  of  butterfat  showed  a  proportionate  in- 
crease. The  average  butterfat  content  of  North  Carolina-produced 
milk  is  4.4  per  cent. 

Although  one  hundred  milk  ])roces8ing  plants  now  oper- 
ate in  this  State,  many  producers  sell  their  milk  at  retail.  Some  of 
the  finest  dairy  herds  in  the  Nation  are  now  found  in  North  Carolina. 
The  largest  pure-bred  Jersey  herd  in  America  may  be  found  at  Bill- 
more,  N.  C,  over  20,000  pounds  of  milk  being  produced  at  this 
dairy  each   day. 

NORTH   CAROLINA  DAIRY   PRODUCTS 
ASSOCIATION 

This  book  has  the  approval  of  the  North  Carolina  Dairy  Products 
Association,  and  this  organization's  sponsorship  was  responsible  for 
the  purchase  of  the  first  10.000  copies.  The  officials  of  the  Associa- 
tion at  a  meeting  held  in  the  State  offices  in  Raleigh  agreed  to  do 
everything  possible  to  assure  the  success  of  "Favorite  Recipes," 
l>ointing  out  that  it  would  lead  to  a  greater  consumption  of  milk 
and  milk  products  and  consequently  would  result  in  a  great  boost 
for  the   Dairy   Industry  of  North   Carolina. 

DAIRY   PRODUCTS  BUILD  HEALTH   AND 
STRENGH 

Science  has  found  that  a  glass  of  milk  contains  an  almost  ideal 
combination  of  proteins,  carbohydrates,  fats,  minerals,  and  vitamins. 

When  you  use  milk  in  any  of  its  appetizing  forms  on  your 
table  or  in  your  cooking,  you  are  adding  natural  goodness  to  the 
family  food. 


MILK  AND  NUTRITION 

Milk  is  tli«'  one  food  for  whicli  tlicrc  is  no  fully  satisfactory  suli- 
8titiito.  Vt  iso  honicinakcrs  realize  that  a  quart  of  milk  a  dav  for  a 
eliild  and  a  pint  a  dav  lor  each  adnll  is  the  liest  foundation  for 
an  a<lei|uale  <liet.  Milk  conlaiiis  all  the  factors  known  to  Ix'  needed 
li\  the  liUMian  i)od\  encr^\ -jiix  liij;  caloric-,  iiiu-clc-lmildinf;  protein, 
valuable  niiuerals,  and  important  vitamins. 

Milk  is  essential  in  the  diet  to  meet  the  recognized  require- 
ments for  calcium  and  riboflavin.  Many  American  diets  are  low  in 
these   two   very  necessary   food   elements. 

BUTTER 

This  is  a  delicious  food  fat,  rich  in  natural  vitamins  and  health-piving 
energy.  Butter,  as  a  food,  has  been  imitated  but  never  equalled. 
Scientists  and  home  economics  leaders  have  proved  that  butter 
builds  up  resistance  to  disease  and  promotes  growth.  Butter  is  a 
"nuist"  food  in  every  home  because  of  its  full-flavored  goodness  both 
as  a  spread  and  for  cooking.  Throughout  the  world  butter  has  long 
been   recognized   as   a   true   symbol   of  good   living. 

ICE  CREAM 

The  great  American  dessert  —  not  only  delicious  and  cooling  in 
summer,  but  highly  nutritious  the  year  around  —  has  excellent 
energy-building  elements,  is  easily  digested,  and  appeals  to  all  ages. 

EVAPORATED  MILK 

Whole  milk  which  has  been  reduced  in  volume  by  evaporating  part 
of  its  water  content.  It  has  all  the  properties  of  whole  milk  and  the 
addition  of  water  restores  its  original  bulk.  North  Carolina  ranks 
high  in  national  production  of  this  product. 

SWEETENED  CONDENSED  MILK 

Sweetened  condensed  milk  is  evaporated  milk  to  which  has  been 
added  a  sweetening  material. 


NATURE'S    MOST    PERFECT  FOOD 

i  I  0  T  I  N                                ^^^^K— —  P  0  T  A  S  S  I  U  ^A 

:hlorine 

CHOLINE 


SULPHUR 
VITAMIN    A 


^^^^^  ^^^^  VITAMIN    Bi 

VIAGNESIUM  ^^■iMllimX^^l  VltZ""    '' ^'^ 

^^^H  ^^^m-  VITAMIN    B6 

'HospHORus  ^^^^^^^^^^^^^r 


Vitamins  and  Minerals  found  in  Milk 


MALTED  MILK 

This  is  a  powder  made  from  whole  milk  combined  with  a  Jjarley 
mah  extract,  wheat  flour,  and  flavoring.  It  is  used  in  prepared 
foods  for  the  home  as  well  as  at  soda  fountains  in  the  well  known 
"Malteds."  Malted  milk  powder  is  rich  in  wholesome  nourishment 
and  natural  vitamins  and  is  particularly  valuable  because  it  is  often 
used   in  combination  with  ice  cream   and   fluid  milk. 

DRIED  MILK,   POWDERED  MILK 

Whole  milk,  skimmilk.  l)uttermilk  are  each  prepared  in  dry  or 
powdered  form  and  are  used  extensively  for  commercial  baking  and 
export.     Onlv  the  water  is  removed. 

BUTTERMILK 

In  fluid  form  is  used  both  for  cooking  and  as  a  zestful  drink.  It 
has  a  tangy,  satisfying  flavor.  Natural  buttermilk  is  produced  in 
butter  manufacture  or  may  be  made  by  the  addition  of  a  special 
culture  to  sweet   milk;   either  type  is  exceptionallv  wholesome. 

HOMOGENIZED  MILK 

This  is  whole  milk  with  cream  in  every  drop.  By  a  special  process, 
the  fat  globules  are  broken  up  and  distributed  throughout  the  milk 
so  that  the  cream  does  not  separate  and  rise  to  the  top. 

NATURAL  CHEESE  VARIETIES 

CHEDDAR  cheese  is  best  known  in  this  country  as  AMERICAN 
cheese.  This  delicious  dairy  food  is  firm  and  even-textured.  It 
acquires   a   pronounced   flavor   through    aging. 

American  cheese  is  made  in  various  sizes  and  shapes.  It 
is  one  of  the  most  versatile  and  popular  cheeses  in  the  American 
home.  It  has  many  uses  —  as  a  filler  for  sandwiches,  in  a  variety 
of  cooked  dishes,  in  salads,  as  a  tasty  accompaniment  to  pie,  as  a 
dessert  served  with  crackers  or  fruit,  as  an  appetizer,  alone  or  in 
combination,  and  for  snacks.  It  is  usually  golden  orange  in  color; 
when   uncolored.   it    is   called   "white." 

The  Colby  type  of  American  cheese  is  prepared  in  the 
same  shapes  and  sizes  as  "American  Cheddar"  —  is  faster  curing, 
comparatively  mild  in  flavor,  more  open  in  texture,  is  more  moist, 
and   does  not   have   as  long-keeping   qualities  as   regular   American. 


^J^t 


SWISS  cheese  is  the  American  version  of  ErnmenthaltT 
(>ri<iiiuilly  iiii|Mirl<'il  fioin  Swilzorland,  a  slow-curini;.  firin-lxidied 
(hccsc  with  well  (Ifvclopcd  ""oy<"!<."'  Fhivor  runs  from  sweet  to  sahy, 
which  makes  it  ideal  lor  maiiv  lahlc  uses,  espeeiallv  sandwiehes. 
It  is  also  line  lor  ^ratiii;;  (when  dry),  and  sprinkling  on  soups,  over 
salads  atid  other  main  dishes.  It  is  manufactured  in  the  giant  round 
wheel.  I()()  to  230  pounds,  also  in  blocks  26  to  36  ])ounds. 

INCREASE  IN  DAIRY  PRODUCTS  IN 
NORTH   CAROLINA 

Due  to  the  promotional  activities  of  the  North  Carolina  Dairy 
Products  Association,  the  Dairy  Council,  and  the  various  agricul- 
tural agencies,  there  has  been  a  steady  increase  in  the  manufacture 
of  dairy  products  in  this  State.  From  1925  to  1943  the  following 
increases  have  occurred: 

1925  1940  194.?* 

Dairy  Product  (thousands) 

Ice  cream  made  in  plants  (^lallons) 2.278  3,682  8.524 

Ice  cream   mix.   gallons 0  283  427 

Sherbet,  gallons    0  602  652 

Ice  milk,  gallons . ' 0  406  193 

Creamery  butter,  pounds 1,556  2.357  1.946 

Cheese,  American  or  Cheddar 62  400  742 

Cottage,  pot,  bakers,  pounds 2  .301  236 

*Preliminary  figures. 

It  is  the  belief  of  many  that  the  progress  of  the  Dairy 
Industry  in  North  Carolina  during  the  past  five  years  has  been 
greater  than  during  the  previous  two  decades.  However,  the  actual 
picture  of  the  tremendous  growth  has  been  clouded  by  the  war 
during  the  past  three  years.  Much  of  the  milk  which  at  one 
time  went  to  the  manufacture  of  ice  milk,  creamy  butter,  and  the 
various  cheeses  has  for  some  time  now  been  going  into  the  fluid 
trade  for  military  consunii>tion  and  for  homes  with  increased 
incomes. 


i 


FINALE 

We  hope  you  will  enjoy  this  book  and  that  it  will  have  a  nook 
in  your  kitchen  down  through  the  years.  We  had  it  pubhshed 
with  a  special  binding  so  that  it  would  not  be  necessary  for  you 
to  hold  it  while  you  are  trying  out  the  new  i-ecipes.  It  wall 
stay   open. 

.y  If    this    project    proves    successful,    we    hope    to    publish 

Q  special   recipe   books   for  the   strawberry   producers,   for  the   peach 

V ,        growers,  and  for  the  sweet  potato  and  the  peanut  people. 

s^  In  the  event  you  want  a  copy  of  "Favorite  Recipes"  for 

^Si,^     a  relative  or  a  friend,  see  your  local  dairy  or  write  directly  to  the 
I  State    Department    of    Agriculture,    Raleigh. 

lo  THOMPSON  GREENWOOD,  Editor, 

^  Publications   Division.  North   Carolina    Department   of   Agrioullme. 


78205 


*'^^HKf*'-- 


L>  tSf-xXKi 


A  TKAY  OF  CHEESE  APPETIZERS 

AT  LEFT:  appealing  arrangement  of  cheese  appetizers. 
Directions  for  this  and  additional  dainties  appear  immedi- 
ately below.  Other  tasty  combinations  are  provided  in  this 
section  from  pages  9  to   11. 


A  TRAY  OF  CHEESE  APPETIZERS 

See  Full  Color  Illustration  at  Left. 

1.  Spread  potato  chips  with  cream  cheese. 

2.  Spread  soda  crackers  with  butter,  place  a  slice  of  Natural  Brick 
Cheese  on  top. 

3.  Cut  stuffed  olives  in  two.  Cut  JVatural  Swiss  Cheese  with  a  small 
round  or  square  cutter.  Place  the  cheese  between  the  halves  of 
olives  and  hold  together  with  a  toothpick. 

4.  Fill  pitted  dates  with  cream  cheese. 

5.  Stuff  celery  with  grated  Natural  American  Cheese  mixed  with 
mayonnaise.     Sprinkle  with  paprika. 

6.  Spread  one  slice  of  dried  beef  with  cream  cheese.  Roll  as  tightly 
as  possible.  Spread  another  slice  of  dried  beef  in  the  same  way 
and  roll  on  the  first  one.     Chill  and  slice  if  desired. 

7.  Put  two  pecan  halves  together  with  cottage  cheese. 
Arrange  appetizers  attractively  on  tray  and  serve. 

BURNING  BUSH 

(35  balls) 

3      oimtes  chipped  beef  1      grapefruit  or  large  red  apple 

6      ounces  (%  cup)  cream  cheese 
Dry  beef  and  crumble.     Form  cheese  into  balls  and  roll  in  chipped 
beef  until  they  are  entirely  coated.     Place  toothpicks  in  balls   and 
stick  them  into  a  grapefruit  or  a  large  apple. 


CHEESE  APPETIZER 

1      teaspoon  flour 

1      egg  white 

12   salted  crackers 

Combine  cheese,  salt,  and  flour.  Fold  in  stiffly  l)eaten  egg  white. 
Drop  by  teaspoon  on  crackers.  Brown  in  hot  oven  (400  F.)  10 
minutes. 


^/2    cup  aged  Natural  American 

Cheese,  grated 
Yz    teaspoon  salt 


CHEESE  CREAM  PUFFS 

(4  dozen) 


1  cup  boiling  water 

M  <"i'P   butler 

^  cup    flour 

y^  teaspoon  salt 


Few  grains  cayenne 

\^2    cup  Natural  American 

(iheese,  grated 
2       eggs 


Heat  water  and  butter  to  boiling  point.  Add  flour,  salt,  and  cajcnne, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  until  mixture  leaves  sides  of  pan.  Add 
cheese,  mix  well.  Cool.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  lieating  well  after 
each  addition.  Drop  by  teaspoon  on  buttered  pan,  making  small 
balls.  Cook  in  moderate  oven  (350'  F. )  30  to  40  minutes.  Delicious 
filled  with  fish  salad. 


CHEESE  DREAMS 


2  cups  Natural  American 
Clieese,  grated 

3  ounces  (^  cup)  cream  clieese 
Y2    teaspoon  baking  powder 


2      tablespoons  butter,  softened 

I      egg,  beaten 

48    2-incli  rounds  bread,  toasted 


Blend  first  5  ingredients,  beat  until  creamy.     Spread  on  toast,  place 
under  broiler  until  slightly  browned  and  puffed. 


CHEESE  STRAWS 


2  cnps  flour 

f  teaspoon  salt 

^  cup  butter 

/4  to   *2   •■"?  '""^  water 


2/3   cup  Natural  American 

Cheese,  grated 
Paprika 


Sift  flour  and  salt,  cut  in  butter,  add  sufficient  water  to  hold  together. 
Turn  onto  lightly  floured  board  and  roll  in  oblong  shape.  Sprinkle 
half  the  dough  with  a  portion  of  the  cheese  and  paprika.  Fold  over 
two  or  three  times  and  roll  out.  Repeat  until  all  cheese  is  used. 
Roll  slightly  thiiiiier  than  pie  pastry.  Cut  into  tiny  circles  or  4-inch 
cheese-stick  lengths.  Bake  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet  in  hot  oven 
(425"  F.)  7  to  10  minutes. 

CHEESE  AND  BACON  CANAPE 


2      eg5  yolks 

2      cups  milk,  scalded 

14    pound  ('2  cup)  cream  cheese 


^4    pound  bacon,  diced 
Dash  of  paprika 


Beat  egg  yolks,  add  hot  milk,  then  the  cheese,  stirring  until  the 
cheese  is  all  melted.  Add  the  diced  bacon  which  has  l)een  fried  until 
crisp.  Serve  hot  on  buttered  toast  squares  or  crisp  crackers.  Add 
dash  of  paprika. 


10 


CHEESE  AJND  HAM   APPETIZERS 

(Serves  20  to  25) 

2       l;iliIe->|MM>ii>   in;i>oiiiiai>c'  I  H-oiiiir*-  parkii^^*    (^3  cup) 

2       tublespuuiis  >IiintMl  olive^,  .roam  .  Ik-.-m- 

rhopped  V^  l(•«l^p«>oIl  prrpart'd  iiiii>lard 

4  thin  slices  rnid  boiled  ham 

Blend  mayonnaise,  olives,  cheese,  and  mustard.  Spread  %  inch 
thick  on  ham  slices.  Koll  as  jelly  roll  and  fasten  with  toothpicks. 
Chill  an  hour  or  two.  Slice  in  (juarter-incli  -lices.  Place  slices  on 
small  crackers  and  serve. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  CANAPE 

6     slices  bread  Stuffed  olives,  diced 

Vi    pound  collage  cheese  Parsley 

Chives,  chopped 

Cut  bread  into  stars.     Conihine  cheese  and  chives,  spread  on  hread. 
Place  slice  of  olive  on  each  canape,  decorate  with  parsley. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  SNACKS 

2      cups  cottage  cheese  2      tablespoons  -salted  peanut*. 

2      tablespoons  mayonnaise  chopped 

Potato  chips 

Combine  cheese,  mayonnaise,  and  peanuts:  mix  thoroughly.     Spread 
on  each  potato  chip.     Serve  immediately. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  NUTS 

1      cup  cottage  cheese  2      tablespoons  cream 

'4    cup  mayonnaise  '4    cup  pecans,  chopped 

Combine  cheese,  mayonnaise,  and  cream;  mix  well.     Shape  into  balls 
size  of  a  walnut,  roll  in  nut  meats.     Serve  on  toothpick. 


SAIL  BOAT  HORS  D'OEUVRES 

14    pound  INalural  Brick  Cheese  1  small  jar  cucumber  pickle« 

Cut  cheese  into  slices,  Yg  inch  thick.  Cut  slices  into  triangles  IY2 
inches  wide  and  2  inches  high.  Cut  thin  slice  from  bottom  of  pickle 
and  slash  top  of  pickle.     Insert  sail  of  cheese  in  slash  in  pickle. 


11 


EVERAGE 


«« 


A? 


*r-  "^  •%. 


Ijf^ 


«*!- 


X" 


HOT  PINEAPPLE  EGGNOG 


AT 

LEFT:    a 

tantalizing 

veires 

her 

for 

a   large  group; 

in- 

trig 

iiing  flavor 

Recipe 

on 

page 

14. 

Try 

the  other 

selected 

reci 

pes  in  this 

section  also 

BANANA  MBLK  FLUFF 

(Serves  4) 

^  cup  bananu.  iiia>lie(l  Sah 

3  tablespoons  orange  juice  2      cups  milk 

3  tablespoons  honey  or  syrup  Whipped  cream 

's  teaspoon  almond  extract  INulmeg 

Combine  first  6  ingredients,  beat  well  with  egg  beater.  Garnish  with 
cream.  sj)rinkle  with  nutmeg. 

CHOCOLATE  MINT  FLIP 

(Serves  6  I 
\--2    cup  cocoa  mall  1      teaspoon  vanilla 

1      cup  hot  milk  14    teaspoon  peppermint  extract 

1      cup  cold  milk  1      cup  vanilla  ice  cream 

'4    teaspoon  salt 

Combine  cocoa  malt  and  hot  milk;  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  cold 
milk.  salt,  and  extracts.  Chill.  Just  before  serving  pour  into  shaker, 
add  ice  cream,  shake  until  smooth. 

FROSTED  PEACH  DRINK 

(Serves  6 1 
1      cup  sliced  peaches  M    cup  light  corn  syrup 

41 2    cups  milk  1      cup  vanilla  ice  cream 

Mash  the  peaches  with  a  fork  and  add  the  corn  syrup.  Add  the  milk 
and  mix  well.  Place  the  ice  cream  in  six  glasses  and  fill  with  the 
peach  milk. 

GRAPE  SHAKE 
( 6  Servings  I 
2I4    cups  grape  juice  IVi    cups  evaporated  milk 

11'2    cups  cold  water  or  chipped  ice 

All  ingredients  should  be  cold.  Mix  milk  and  water.  Add  grape 
juice  and  shake  vigorously.  The  addition  of  a  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice  adds  zest  to  the  drink.  If  sour  grape  juice  is  used,  add  a 
little  sugar. 


13 


HOT  PEPPERMINT  CHOCOLATE 

(Serves  6) 

3      cups  hot  milk  Salt 

8      peppermint  rliooolale  patties  1      cup  cream 

Couibiiie  1/2  cup  hot  milk  and  patties,  mixing  until  smooth.  Add 
salt  and  remaining  milk,  heat  to  simmering.  Add  cream  and  serve 
immediately. 

HOT  PINEAPPLE  EGGNOG 

See  full  color  illustration  on  page  12 

(Serves  40  to  50) 

3      quarts  pineapple  juice 

1      quart  cream 

M    cup  orange  rind,  grated 


16  egg  yolks 
16  egg  whites 
2      cups  sugar 


Combine  egg  yolks,  8  egg  whites,  and  1  cup  sugar :*beat  thoroughly. 
Bring  pineapple  juice  to  boiling  point,  add  cream,  reheat.  Pour 
over  first  mixture,  stirring  constantly.  Beat  remaining  egg  whites 
and  add  remaining  sugar.  Fold  egg  whites  into  hot  mixture.  Sprinkle 
with  orange  rind. 


ORANGE  EGGNOG 

(Serves  6) 

6      egg  whites,  beaten 
3   to  4  cups  milk 
Orange  rind,  grated 

Combine  egg  volk,  orange  juice,  and  1  teaspoon  sugar;  beat.  Com- 
bine egg  white  and  remaining  sugar;  beat.  Fold  most  of  egg  white 
mixture  into  egg  yolk  mixture.  Pour  into  tall  glasses.  Add  milk 
to  fill  glass.    Top  with  remaining  white  and  orange  rind. 


6      egg  yolks,  beaten 
lYz  cups  orange  juice 
^4    cup  sugar 


i*f  Hepperniint  i.hofniiiti- 


I'r    iffipv    itfi    tills    ptliit 


ICE  CREAM  CHOCOLATE  PUNCH 

(Serves  12) 

4  squares  chocolate  2      cups  hot  water 

'4    teaspoon  salt  IV^    teaspoons  vanilla 

2 '4    quarts  milk  Whipped  cream 

I      quart  vanilla  ice  cream  Red  and  §;reen  sugar 

'2  cup  sugar 
Conil)iiie  chocolate,  sugar,  salt,  and  water  in  the  top  of  a  double 
holier  placed  directly  over  the  heat.  Bring  to  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Stir  over  low  heat  for  about  3  minutes.  Place  over  hot 
water  and  add  the  milk  gradually.  When  hot.  beat  with  a  rotary 
beater  until  smooth.  Add  vanilla.  Chill  and  pour  into  a  punch 
l)owl.  Add  one-half  of  the  ice  cream  and  stir  until  partially  melted. 
Sweeten  the  whipped  cream  and  flavor  with  a  little  peppermint  if 
desired.  Place  on  top  of  the  first  mixture  alternately  with  the 
remaining  ice  cream.  Sprinkle  the  cream  with  colored  sugar.  (To 
make  colored  sugar,  rulj  a  little  coloring  into  granulated  sugar.) 
Increase  recipe  to  serve  large  numbers. 

PRUNE  MILK  SHAKE 

(Serves  61 

3      (lips  milk  1       cup  prime  juice 

1    cup  vanilla  ice  cream 
Place  all  ingredients  in  mixer  and  shake  vigorously. 

STRA\^'BERRY  MILK   SHAKE 

(Serves  8   to   10 1 
1       quart  strawberries  ^    cup  fresh  cream 

(fresh,  frozen.  *>r  canned)  %    cup  sugar 

5  cups  fresh  milk  2'2    teaspoons  lemon  juice 
^4    teaspoon  salt 

Crush  strawberries  and  press  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Combine  with 
milk  and  cream;  add  other  ingredients,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Chill 
well  before  serving.  Serve  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  in 
each  glass. 


READS 

Hot   •    Yeast 
Breakfast   Cakes 


r-  **^*' 


SOUK 

\HLK 

I'ANCAKES 

AT 

LEU 

:    1 

hf    well-ienieiiihered   kind    ih 

ll    ^iriinthiia 

lISI'll 

to    iiiaki-    . 

•  n. 

with    ll 

<■      Sillllf 

niclt-in-yoiir 

IIIOIllll 

fjoocl 

ness. 

The 

rccipi 

i*i 

on  pa^o 

29       ju- 

1  one  <if  the 

lUiiiiy  ; 

ippel 

zing 

fooci 

.«    ill 

his    section. 

APPLK-CHKKSK   SANDWICH    HKKAD 

1'2    cup  .sliorlening  1  teaspoon  bukin^:  po»(ler 

^3   cup  sugar  1  teaspoon   baking  so<l:i 

2      eggs  Vi  teaspoon  sail 

1  eiip  ground  iinpeelecl  apples  ]/2  cup  grate<l  American  C.lieese 

2  cups   flour  ^4  eup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  to<;ether  shorteuiiifr  ami  siifjar.  Boat  egfjs.  add  apples  and 
juice.  Sift  together  flour.  })akiii<:  powder.  I)akiii<:  soda,  and  salt,  add 
alternately  with  epg  mixture  to  creamed  mixture.  Add  cheese  and 
luits.  If  apples  are  not  juicy,  add  small  amount  of  milk.  Bake  in 
greased  loaf  pan  in  moderate  oven    ( 3S0     F.I    1  hour. 

APPLE  FKITTERS 

(Serves  6) 
2      cups  flour  2      egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

1       tablespoon    baking   powder  1       cup  milk 

'4    teaspoon  salt  2      cups  sour  apples,  diced 

1  teaspoon  sugar  2      egg  whites 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  eomhined  egg  yolks  and  milk. 
Add  apples,  fold  in  stiffly  heaten  egg  whites.  Drop  from  a  tahle- 
spoon  into  deep  fat    (360     F.I    and  fry  for  3  miiuites. 

APPLE  IMUFFINS 

(12  to   16   muffins) 

2  cups  flour  1       cup  apples,  chopped 
'2    cup  sugar  1       egg.  beaten 

.3       teaspoons  baking   powder  1       cup  milk 

'4    teaspoon  salt  3       tablespoons   butter,   melted 

Sift  drv  ingredieiUs  together,  add  apples,  mix.  Add  com])iued  liquid 
ingredients,  mixing  just  enough  to  moisten.  Pour  into  huttcred 
mufHn  ])ans.  filling  two-thirds  full.  Sprinkle  with  the  following 
crunch : 

Crunch 

'/3    cup  brown   sugnr  'o    teaspoon  cinnamon 

^3    cup    nut    meals,    chopped 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven    (400     F.  I    15  iiiiuutes. 


i 


17 


»/2 

cup  butter 

1 

2 

cup  sugar 

eggs,  well  beaten 

2 

eups   flour 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

APPLESAUCE  ROLLS 

(30  ll/a-inch  rolls) 
1      cake  compressed  yeast  ^4    teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  cup  lukewarm  applesauce  ^4    teaspoon  allspice 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2%  to  31^  cups  sifted  flour 
1      teaspoon  salt  1      tablespoon  shortening 
1/8    teaspoon  soda 

Soften  yeast  in  small  amount  of  lukewarm  applesauce.  Add  sugar, 
salt,  soda,  cinnamon,  and  allspice  to  the  remaininj;  applesauce.  Beat 
in  two  cups  flour.  Add  yeast  and  mix  well.  Add  shortening.  Add 
remaining  flour  to  form  moderately  stiff  dough.  Turn  out  on  floured 
board  and  knead  until  smooth.  Place  in  lightly  greased  ])owl.  Cover 
and  let  rise  in  warm  place  until  doubled  in  bulk.  Punch  down. 
Shape  into  small  rolls.  Brush  with  melted  fat.  Place  on  greased 
baking  sheet,  Yj  inch  apart.  Let  rise  until  douI)led  in  bulk.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven    (375'    F.I    20  minutes. 

BANANA  BREAD 

(1  loaf) 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
Y2    teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  sour  milk 
11^  cups  banana  pulp 
^4    cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alter- 
nately with  combined  milk  and  bananas.  Add  nut  meats.  Bake  in 
buttered  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven    (SSO*^   F.  I    45  to  55  minutes. 

BUTTERHORNS 

(40  butterhorns) 
1      cup  milk,  scalded  1      cake  compressed  yeast 

1      cup  butter  4V^    cups    flour    (approximately) 

1^    cup  sugar  2      eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  Powdered  sugar  frosting   (optional) 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  hot  milk.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add 
crumbled  yeast,  let  stand  3  minutes.  Add  two  cups  flour.  Beat  well. 
Add  eggs,  then  remaining  flour.  Knead  until  smooth.  Let  rise  to 
twice  its  bulk.  Divide  dough  into  40  buns.  Roll  each  piece  into 
long,  narrow  strip,  roll  with  fingertips  into  shape  of  horns.  Place 
on  buttered  baking  sheet  and  let  rise  until  light.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  (425°  F.)  20  to  30  minutes.  Spread  with  powdered  sugar  frost- 
ing while  warm. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  BREAD 
(1  loaf) 

2  cups  flour  Y2    <^np  walnuts,  chopped 
1      teaspoon  baking  powder                       2      eggs,  beaten 

Vi    teaspoon  soda  1      cup   sour   milk   or   buttermilk 

1.4    teaspoon  salt  2      tablespoons   butter,   melted 

1      cup  brown  sugar 

Sift  first  4  ingredients  together,  add  sugar  and  nut  meats.  Add  com- 
bined liquid  ingredients,  mixing  just  enough  to  moisten.  Pour  into 
buttered  one-pound  loaf  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F. ) 
45  to  55  minutes. 


18 


CllKESE   AND  RICE  FRITTERS 

lablc«pouns  milk 

cup  INuliiriil  American 

Cheese,  gralccl 

e^^.  well   beaten 

lablespotin    butler,   melted 

Sift  (Irv  ingredients  together.  Combine  rice,  eggs,  cheese,  ami  milk, 
ami  add  to  first  niixtiiro.  Drop  I)y  spoonfuls  on  a  hot  huttcrcd 
skillft.  irv   until  a   delicate  brown.    Turn   and  cook  on  reverse  side. 


2 

tablespoons  flour 

2 

1 

teaspoon    b:ikin;x   powder 

■/2 

H 

teasp<»oii   -salt 

1 

cup  rice,  boiled 

1 

1 

CHEESE  BREAD 

(1   loaf) 

1      cup  milk,  scalded  1       teaspoon  sail 
'4    cup   Natural   American  1       cake  compressed  yeast 

Cheese,  prated  3      ^.^,p^   flour    (approximately) 

1  tablespoon  butter  Butter,  melted 

2  tablespoons  sugar 

Add  cheese,  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  hot  milk.  Stir  until  cheese  is 
melted.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  crumbled  yeast,  let  stand  3  minutes. 
Add  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  knead.  Let  stand  in  warm  place  until 
double  in  bulk.  Shape  into  loaf.  Place  in  buttered  bread  pan,  brush 
top  with  butter.  Let  rise  until  double  in  hulk.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven   (350     F.I    50  to  60  minutes. 


4pptf  Frittfrs  — ■  ^ee  rec.ipv  on  page  77 


CHEESE  BISCUITS 

2      cups  flour  3      tablespoons  butter 

4      teaspoons  baking  powder  %    ci'P  Natural  Anieric-an 

Vi    teaspoon  salt  Cheese,  grated 

Yz  c"P  milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  work  or  cut  in  butter  and  cheese.  Add 
milk,  beat  until  well  mixed.  Roll  ^/i  inch  thick  and  cut  into  l)iscuits. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oveti   (400'   F.I    15  minutes. 


CHEESE  BISCUIT  ROLLS 

(Serves  12) 

2  cups  flour  ?4    cup  milk 

3  teaspoons   baking   powder  2      tablespoons   butter,   melted 
Yi    teaspoon  salt  1      cup  Natural  American 

14    cup  butter  Cheese,  grated 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  work  in  butter.  Add  milk.  Roll  to 
1/4  inch  thickness.  Spread  with  Jnitter  and  cheese.  Roll  like  a  jelly 
roll,  slice.  Bake  on  a  Ituttered  Iiaking  sheet  in  a  hot  oven  (400  F.  I 
15  minutes. 

CHEESE  POPOVERS 

(12  to  16  popovers) 

1  cup  floin-  1      cup  milk 

Y2    teaspoon  salt  1      cup  (Natural  American 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  Cheese,  grated 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  combined  liquid  ingredients.  Beat 
with  egg  beater  until  full  of  air  bulibles.  Drop  a  rounded  teaspoon 
of  batter  into  each  section  of  hot  and  well-buttered  muffin  pans. 
Sj)read  each  with  level  talilespoon  cheese,  cover  with  another  tea- 
spoon batter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425°  F.)  20  minutes,  reduce 
heat  to  350     F.   and  bake   15  to  20  minutes  more. 


CHEESE  WAFFLES 

2  cups  flour  1      cup  Natural  American 

2  teaspoons   baking   powder  Cheese,  grated 

1  teaspoon  salt  -      ^SS* 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1%   to  IV2  ""Ps  milk 

^    cup  butter,  melted 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  add  cheese.     Add  combined  licpiid 
ingredients.     Bake  in   a   hot   waffle  iron. 


20 


CINNAMON    liVLL  COFFKK   CAlvK 

l*t    <'lip^    milk,    >4-;il<l<'ll  4^    (-Iip*>     (lotir     (;l|l|>ro\iin:llrl>  ) 

'  I    «*iip  htiller  4      ctitl   >olk^.   l>«-iilfn 

'.i       l;ililt'<spiMiii>  >u;:ar  Biitlpr.   iiK'ltcil 

1  tc«i>p«Mkii  salt  8ii^iir   ami   rimiamnii.    mixcil 

2  cakes    coiiipressiMl    >«'asl 

Villi  liiiltrr.  sii^ar.  ami  sail  to  liiil  milk.  I.il  iddI  Id  liikiu  arm.  \ilil 
cruiiililod  yoa.sl.  It-t  .stand  '.i  iiiiiiulr.s.  Ailil  liali  iluiir.  Iicat  tlioriui^lilv. 
lot  stand  in  warm  place  20  n)inuto.«.  Adil  o<;<;  yolks  and  remainder  of 
(lour  to  make  a  soft  d(>n<:li.  Let  .stand  until  iloid>le  in  l>iilk.  Cut  into 
lialls.  roll  eaeli  in  Imtler.  then  in  sn<:ar  anil  linnamon.  I'lace  in 
will  linltereil  sprinf;  iorin.  lot  stand  nntil  lijilit.  Sprinkle  with  su^ar. 
Bake   in   a   moderatelv   hoi  oven    (375      to  4(H)     F.  I    M)  to  40  minutes. 


COCOA  W.4FFLES 

(8  to   10  waffles) 

1*4  cup.s  flour  3  egg  jolks.  bealen 

.*{       teaspoons  baking  po\t<lrr  1  cup   milk 

'  2    teaspoon  salt  '4  cup  butter,  melted 

Yi    cup  sugar  3  egg  whites 

6      tablespoons  4*ocoa 

Sift    dry    injiredients    together.      -\dd    coinhined    liquid    ingredients. 
Fold  in  stiffly  liealen  egg  whites.     Bake  in  a  hot  waffle  iron. 


COKNMEAL  Vi  AFFLES 

(8  to   10  waffles  I 

2  cups  cake   flour  -I  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

2  cups  yellow  cm'nnieal  2  cups  milk 

6  teaspoons   baking   powder  Y2  cup  butter,  melted 

2  teaspoons  salt  4  egg  whites 

3  tablespoons  sugar 

Sift   drv   ingredients  together.      Add   condiitied  egg   volks.   milk,   atid 
hiitter.     Fold   in  stiffly  heaten  egK  whites.      Bake  in   hot  waffle  iron. 


CRUMB  CAKE 

2      cups   flour  2       eggs,  well  beaten 

IV2   cups  sugar  V'2    cup  milk 

2      teaspoons   baking  powder  Cinnamon 

^4    teaspoon  salt  Nut   meats,  chopped 

^    cup  butter 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  eut  or  work  in  hutter.  Reserve  1  cup 
of  mixture.  To  remaining  mixture  add  comhined  eggs  and  milk,  heat 
well.  Pour  into  huttered  coffee  cake  pan  ( 9-inch  I .  Cover  top  with 
reserved  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  atid  nut  meats.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven    (350     to  375      F.I    30  to  45  minutes. 


21 


FILLED  COFFEE  CAKE 

^4  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  14  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  2  teaspoons   baking   powder 

4  eggs,  well  beaten  1  cup  milk 

Cream   butter   and   sugar   thoroughly,    add    vanilla,    add   eggs,   blend 
well.     Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk. 


Fill 


ine 


1  cup  brown  sugar  1      teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  butter  1      cup  nut   meats,  cbopped 
2      tablespoons  flour 

Blend  brown  sugar  and  butter.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  mix  well. 
Pour  layer  of  b^fjtter  in  buttered  pan  (8x12  inches),  then  layer  of 
filling,  until  all  is  used  and  filling  is  on  top.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven    (350=    to   375°   F.)    30  to  40  minutes. 


FRUIT  NUT  BREAD 

(1  loaf) 

^4  ""up  dried  apricots  1  large  orange 

2  cup  flour  Boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  raisins 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  egg,  beaten 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons   butter,   melted 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

y^  cup  nut  meals,  cbopped 

Soak  apricots  I/2  hour.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  nut  meats. 
Squeeze  juice  from  orange,  add  boiling  water  to  make  ^/^  cup.  Put 
drained  apricots,  orange  rind,  and  raisins  through  food  chopper. 
Add  egg,  butter,  and  vanilla,  add  to  dry  ingredients,  mixing  just 
enough  to  moisten.  Bake  in  buttered  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350    F.)  45  to  55  minutes. 


GINGER  BREAD 

3      tablespoons  sugar 
1      egg,  beaten 
1      cup  molasses 
2M  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg  and  molasses.  Add  sifted  dry 
ingredients  alternately  with  water.  Bake  in  buttered  pan  in  a  mod- 
erate oven    (350°   to  375°  F.)    30  to  45  minutes. 


22 


teaspoon  soda 

»/2 

teaspoon  salt 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

teaspoon  ginger 

cup  boiling  water 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  NUT  BREAD 

(1   loaf) 

28   gruliain  crackers  1  cup  niil  iiirals,  chopped 

?4    teaspoon  salt  3  egfi.«.  beaten 

Vl  cup  sugar  i/t  eup  milk 

1^    teaspoons   baking  powder                  l^  cup  butter,  melted 

Roll  crackers  fine,  add  salt,  sugar,  I>akinu;  powder,  and  nut  meats; 
mix  thoroujihly.  Add  combined  licjuid  ingredients,  mixing  just 
enough  to  moisten.  Bake  in  Inittered  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350     F.)    aljout  45   minutes. 

GRAHAM  NUT   BREAD 

(2  loaves) 

1  cup  flour  14  eup  nut  meats,  chopped 

Y2  teaspoon  soda  14  cup  raisins 

Iji  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  egg.  beaten 

V2  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons    butter,    melted 

1  cup  graham   flour 

Sift  first  4  ingredients  together,  add  brown  sugar,  graham  flour,  nut 
meats,  and  raisins;  mix  well.  Add  combined  egg,  milk,  and  butter. 
Bake  in  buttered  pan  (4x10x2  inches)  or  two  1-pound  loaf  pans  in  a 
moderate  oven    (350"   F.I    45   to   55   minutes. 

GRAPE  NUT  BREAD 

(1   loaf) 

1  cup  flour  14  eup  grape  nuts 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  cup  nut  meats 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  egg.  beaten 
V^  cup  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

14    teaspoon  salt  2      tablespoons    butter,    melted 

1/2    cup  graham  flour 

Sift  first  5  ingredients  together,  add  graham  flour,  grape  nuts,  and 
nut  meats.  Add  combined  liquid  ingredients,  mixing  just  enough  to 
moisten.  Bake  in  buttered  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.) 
45  to  55  minutes,  or  muflin  tins  in  a  hot  oven  (400°  F.)  25  to  30 
minutes. 

GRIDDLE   CAKES 

( 12  medium  cakes ) 

1^  cups  flour  I      egg,  beaten 

2  teaspoons   baking   powder  1      cup  milk 

Y2    teaspoon  salt  2      tablespoons   butter,   niehed 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  combined  liquid  ingredients. 
Bake  on  hot   griddle.     Serve   at  once. 


23 


1 

/3 

Clip  milk.  Miilded 
cup  biillei- 

u 

1 

1 

cup  siigur 

teaspoon  salt 

cake  compressed  yeast 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS 

1      egf:,  bciilen 

4    to   5   cups    flour    (appro.xiniutely) 

^4    teaspoon  cinnamon 

'4    cup  raisins 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  hot  milk.  (^ool.  Add  i  luniMi'd  vcast. 
let  stand  3  minutes.  Add  egg,  flour,  and  cinnamon  lo  make  a  soft 
dough.  Add  raisins.  Let  rise  until  light.  Shape  into  large  biscuits, 
place,  an  inch  apart,  on  ])uttered  baking  pan.  Let  rise  initil  light. 
Brush  with  beaten  egg.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400^  F. )  20  minutes. 
When  cool  make  a  cross  on  top  of  each  bun  with  confectioners" 
frosting. 

HUSH  PUPPIES 

(To  be  cooked  and  eaten  with  fish  I 

2  cups  cornmeal  1      teaspoon  salt 

1  lablespoon   flour  1      whole  egg 

Y2  teaspoon  soda  3      tablespoons  chopped  onion,   line 

1  teaspoon   baking  powder  (optional) 

1  cup  biitlerniilk 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Add  onion,  then  milk,  and  lasl  ilic 
beaten  egg.  Drop  by  the  spoonfuls  into  a  pan  or  kettle,  in  which 
fish  is  being  fried.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Drain  on  ])aper.  the 
same  as  fried  fish.  If  a  deep  kettle  is  i)eing  used  the  hush  pup])v 
breads  will  float  w'hen  done. 

Hush  Puppy  is  a  southern  dis'i  cooked  at  all  fish  frvs  and  on  bunting 
trips.  At  first  they  were  made  to  feed  the  hungry  bowling  hounds  or 
hunting  dogs  to  keep  them  quiet,  hence  "hush  puppy."  Later  they 
were  more  carefully  made  and  eaten  by  the  entire  party.  This  old 
colonial  custom  has  been  handed  down  to  the  jiresent  day. 


JUICY  CINNAMON  ROLLS 

(20  rolls) 

1  cake  compressed   veasi 

•4    cup  sugar  14  cup  lukewarm   water 

3      tablespoons  butler  1  egg 

1      teaspoon  sail  4  cups  flour 

Scald  milk,  pour  over  sugar,  shortening,  and  salt  in  mixing  bowl. 
Cool  to  lukewarm.  Soften  yeast  in  warm  water;  add  beaten  egg 
and  mix  well;  add  to  milk  mixture.  Add  about  half  the  (lour  and 
beat  thoroughly.  Add  remaining  flour  and  mix  well,  (wcase  top 
of  dough  slightly  and  cover  bowl.  Let  rise  until  doubled.  Roll 
out  on  a  floured  board  to  '^  inch  thickness;  s|)read  with  melted 
34  cup  butter  and  1  cup  brown  sugar  mixed  with  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon. .Roll  up  as  for  a  jelly  roll.  Cut  in  1-incb  slices.  Spread  a 
pan  with  %  cup  brown  sugar  and  3  tablespoons  butter  melted  to- 
gether. Place  cut  side  of  roll  down  on  sugar  mixture.  Let  rise 
until   doulded.    Temperature — 400"    F.    Time — 30  to   35   mimites. 


24 


KAFFKK  KIJCHEN 

(CoJToo  Cake) 

(Servos    12) 

I 


••;ikf  i'oiiiprrssed  yeasi 
2       e!:g».  beaten 
4      cups  flour 


I  (-up  mitk.  >ral(leil 

>2  eiip  hiiller 

^4  cup  Mi^iir 

1  leiispoon  salt 

Add  liiitlcr.  suj;;ir.  iitid  sail  to  hot  milk.  Cool  to  lukewarm 
eriiinlded  \east.  let  slaiid  '.i  minutes.  Add  efifis  and  (lour.  Be: 
Put  in  ref'rifierator  over  ni^ht.  In  morning  pat  into  liultered 
form   or   Ijaking   ])an   and   lei   rise   until   light. 


.  Add 
It  «ell. 
sjiring 


^    eiip  flour 
14    cup  su^ur 


St  reuse! 
2 
1 


tublespouns  butter 
teaspoon  cinnamon 


Comhine  all  ingredients,  mix  with  fingers  until  small  lumps  are 
formed.  S])read  over  dough  after  it  has  raised.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ately  hot   oven    (375      to   425°    F.)    i^    hour. 


Frosting 


14    cup  butler 

2       tablespoon>  milk 

Cook   ingredients   for    10    minutes. 

taken   from   oven. 


Yi   •■up  confectioners'  sugar 

Put    over   Kaffee   Kuehen    when 


nil  piltii'  21. 


leal  Muffing  —  »ee  rfcipf  on  thin  page. 


MAPLE  SYRUP  MUFFINS 

(12  to  16  muffins  t 


2  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Y2  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg,  well  beaten 


Yi    cup  milk 

Y2    •^up  maple  syrup 

M    <"up  butter,  melted 


Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  combined  liquid  ingredients,  mix- 
ing just  enough  to  moisten.  Pour  into  well  buttered  muffin  j)ans,  fill- 
ing  two-thirds   full.      Bake  in   a   hot  oven    (400^   F. )    20  minutes. 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS 

(12  to  16  muffins) 


cup  milk,  scalded 
tablespoons  butter 
cup  oatmeal,  luicooked 
tablespoons  sugar 


^    teaspoon  salt 

1      egg,  well  beaten 

1/4  cups  flour 

4      teaspoons   baking   powder 


Melt  Ijutter  in  hot  milk,  pour  over  oatmeal,  let  stand  3  miiuites.  Add 
sugar,  salt,  and  egg.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients,  mixing  just  enough 
to  moisten.  Bake  in  liuttered  muffin  pans  in  a  hot  oven  (400^  F.) 
20  to  25   minutes. 

ORANGE-RAISIN  MUFFINS 

(12  to  16  muffins) 


2  cups  flour 

Yi  cup  sugar 

%  teaspoon  soda 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Y2  "^up  seedless  raisins 


l^  teaspoon    orange    rind,    grated 

J/J  cup    orange   juice,    strained 

1  egg,  well  beaten 

^3  cup   sour    milk   or   buttermilk 

yj  cup  butter,  melted 


Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times.  Add  raisins  and  orange 
rind.  Add  comljined  liquid  ingredients,  mixing  just  enough  to 
moisten.  Fill  buttered  muffin  pans  two-thirds  full.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven   (400"   to  425°  F.  I    25  minutes. 


26 


orangp:  rolls 

1      rnp   milk,   sciildcd  1      cake  ronipressod  yeast 

3  lable>|>iion»  butler  3      e^^s,  sliulilly   beaten 

Yi    cup  Mifsar  4      eups    (lour     (upproxinialely) 

Yi    teaspoon  salt 

Add  Imllcr.  sugar,  atid  salt  to  hot  milk.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add 
crumlilfd  veast,  let  stand  3  miuuti-s.  Add  egg  ami  flour.  Knead  to 
form  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise  until  donhic  in  liulk.  Punch  down.  Let 
rise   again   until   douhle    in    hulk. 

Orange  Filling 

Yi    cup  butter  Rind  of  1  orange,  grated 

Yz    Clip  sugar 

Blend  all  ingredients  together  well.  Roll  dough  as  for  cinnamon 
rolls  and  fill  with  filling.     Let  rise  until  light.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven 

(400      to  425'   F.I    20  to  25  minutes. 

PASTRY  ROLLS 

1/4   eups  milk,  scalded  1  cake  compressed  yeast 

1  cup  butler  3  egg  yolks,  beaten 

2  tablespoons  sugdr  4  cups    flour    (approximately) 
1      teaspoon  salt 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  hot  milk.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add 
crumhled  yeast,  let  stand  3  minutes.  Add  eggs  and  flour.  Knead  to 
form  a  soft  dough.  Place  in  refrigerator  over  night.  Roll  small 
amount  at  a  time,  keeping  the  rest  of  the  dough  cold.  Roll  to 
1/4-inch  thickness.  Cut  in  triangular  pieces.  Spread  with  melted 
butter  and  roll  with  point  to  outside.  Let  rise  until  very  light.  Bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  to  400"   F. )   20  to  25  minutes. 

POTATO  PANCAKES 

6      large  or  8  medium-sized  2      tablespoons  butter 

potatoes  Vi    teaspoon    baking    powder 

4  eggs,  beaten  Yi    cup  cream 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Peel,  grate,  and  drain  potatoes.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Drop 
by  spoonfuls  onto  hot  griddle.  When  brown  on  one  side  turn  and 
brown  on  the  other.     Serve  with  butter  and  pork  links. 

PRUNE  BREAD 

(2  loaves) 

2  cups  flour  1      cup  nut  meals 
Yi    teaspoon   baking   powder  1      egg,  beaten 

1      teaspoon  soda  1 Y2  cups  sour  milk 

1      cup  sugar  ^4    cup  prune  juice 

1  teaspoon  salt  2      tablespoons    butter,    melted 

2  cups  graham  flour  1      cup  prunes,  stewed 
1/4    cups   candied    fruit  (optional) 

Sift  first  5  ingredients  together,  add  graham  flour,  candied  fruit, 
and  nut  meats.  Add  combined  liquid  ingredients  (including  stewed 
prunes ) ,  mixing  just  enough  to  moisten.  Bake  in  two  buttered  loaf 
pans  in  a  moderate  oven   (350     F. )   45  to  55  minutes. 


27 


11,4    cups  milk 
Yi   <"iip  peanut  oil  or  melted 
shortenina: 


PEANUT  QUICK  BREAD 

(1  loaf) 

cups  flour  1      egg 

teaspoons  baking  powder 

teaspoon  salt,  if  desired 

cup  sugar 

cup  salted  peanuts 

Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  coarsely  ground  peanuts.  Beat  egg.  add 
milk  and  shortening.  Add  to  drv  ingredients  and  mix  carefully. 
Turn  into  greased  loaf  pan  and  liake  in  moderately  slow  oven 
(300°  to  .S25°  F.)  for  II4  to  II/2  hours.  Delicious  for  cream  cheese 
sandwiches. 

QUICK  COFFEE  CAKE 

•4    cup  butter  1      cup  milk 

cup  sugar  '2    cup  brown  sugar 


2      eggs,  well  beaten 
11/^   cups  flour 
\2    teaspoon  salt 
2      teaspoons   baking   powder 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs. 


Y2    cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

1      teaspoon  cinnamon 

1      tablespoon  butter 

1      tablespoon   flour 

Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alter- 


nately with  milk.  Put  half  of  dough  in  buttered  pan.  Combine 
remaining  ingredients,  ]nil  half  of  this  nut  mixture  on  dough,  cover 
with  remaining  dough  and  sprinkle  with  remaining  nut  mixture. 
Bake  in  buttered  pan  18x8  inches)  in  a  moderate  oven  (350^  to 
37.5"    F.)    30  to   45   minutes. 


ricfc  Coffee  Cake  —  »ee  recipe  on  this  paee. 


s^A-'i^-^fe 


RAISED  MUFFINS 

(16  to  20  muffins) 

1  Clip  milk,  sculiled  1      cuke  coIllp^e^<secl  yeasi 

2  lahlrs|>oon.s  butler  2yo  cups  flour 

I       lalilespoon  ^^ii^iir  2      eggs,  well  beaten 

1  leaNpooii  salt 

Add  liiitter.  sugar,  and  salt  to  hot  milk.  Cool  to  lukewarm,  add 
crumhicd  voast.  lot  stand  3  minutes.  Add  half  the  flour,  then  eggs 
and  remaining  flour,  heating  thoroughly.  Beat  for  5  minutes.  Lot 
rise  until  douljle  its  hulk.  Beat,  then  drop  into  buttered  muffin  pans. 
Let  rise  until  light.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425"  F.)   20  to  25  minutes. 

SOUR  IMILK  PANCAKES 

See  full  color  illustration  on  page  16 

(Serves  4  to  6) 

2  cups  flour  2      cups  sour  milk 

2      tablespoons  sugar  2      tablespoons  butter,   melted 

1      teaspoon  salt        ,  2      eggs,  well  beaten 

1      teaspoon  soda 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  add  milk.  Stir  lightly.  Add  hutter 
and  fold  in  eggs.     Bake  on  hot,  ungrcased  griddle. 

SOUR  MILK  GINGER   BREAD 

(Serves  12) 

M    cup  butter  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Y2   cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1      egg,  well  beaten  V2  teaspoon  salt 

^    cup  molasses  V2  cup  sour  milk 

\^/z  cups  flour  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Y2    teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Cream  hutter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  egg  and  molasses,  hlend. 
Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk,  heat  until  smooth. 
Pour  into  buttered  pan  and  sprinkle  top  with  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven    (350°  F. )    45  minutes. 

SOUTHERN  CORN  BREAD 

1      cup  sour  milk  V^    teaspoon  salt 

J'i    teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  I14    cups  cornmeal 

1  teaspoon  water  White  of  one  egg  beaten  stifif 
1      egg  yolk  and  added  last 

Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  in  muffin  tins  or  in  a  shallow  pan 
in  a  moderate  to  hot  oven  (400  to  425°  F.)  for  20  minutes.  To  be 
a  real  southern  corn  liread  tliis  should  be  made  of  white  cornmeal 
made  from  the  whole  grain. 


29 


SPOON  CORN  BREAD 


2 

cups  water 

1 

tablespoon  shortening 

1 

cup  white  cornineal 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

1 

cup  milk 

2 

eggs 

Mix  the  water  and  cornineal  and  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point. 
Cook  five  minutes.  Add  the  milk,  shortening,  salt,  and  well  beaten 
eggs.  Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  well-greased  pan  or  casserole 
for  25  minutes  at  400'   F.     Serve  from  the  same  dish  with  a  spoon. 

TEA  RING 

(4  10-inch  rings) 


2  cups  milk,  scalded 

6  tablespoons  butler 
^•^  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  salt 

2  cakes  compressed  yeast 

7  cups    flour     (approximately) 


3      eggs,  well  beaten 

1      cup  Natural  American 

Cheese,  grated 
M    cup  butter,  melted 
1      cup  brown  sugar 
1      cup  raisins 


Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  hot  milk.  Let  cool.  Add  crumbled 
yeast,  let  stand  3  minutes.  Add  3  cups  Hour.  Beat  thoroughly.  Add 
eggs,  cheese  and  remainder  of  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Knead  lightly.  Let  rise  until  doiddcd  in  Jnilk.  Roll  out  in  oblong 
form  14  inch  thick.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  brown 
sugar  and  raisins.  Roll  up  lengthwise,  cut  into  quarters  and  form 
each  quarter  into  a  circle  on  a  buttered  baking  sheet.  With  scissors 
cut  %-inch  slices  almost  through  the  roll.  Turn  each  slice  partly  on 
its  side.  Let  rise  until  light.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400-  to  425'  F.) 
25  to  30  minutes. 


30 


WAFFLES  —  I 

(8  to  10  waffles) 

2  eggs,  well  beiilen  2  teaspoons   baking  powder 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  suur  cream  Y2  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  flour  6  tablespoons    butter,    melted 

Combine  liquid  ingredients.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Add  but- 
ter, beat  with  a  rotary  beater  until  smooth.     Bake  in  hot  waffle  iron. 

WAFFLES  —  n 

(8  waffles) 

3  cups  flour  3      egg  yolks,  well  beaten 
3V^    teaspoons   baking  powder                  2      cups  milk 

?4    teaspoon  salt  3      egg  whites 

?4    cup  butter 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Work  in  butter  until  mixture  is  as 
fine  as  cornmeal.  ,  Combine  egg  yolks  and  milk,  add  to  first  mixture, 
beat  until  smooth.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  a  hot 
waffle  iron.     Serve  hot  with  maple  syrup. 

Cheese-Bacon  Waffles 

Add  1  cup  grated  cheese  to  batter  and  drop  bj-  spoonfuls  in  hot 
waffle  iron.     Place  two  strips  of  bacon  across  top  before  closing  iron. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  WAFFLES 

(4  waffles) 

^3  cup  flour  2  egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

Yi  cup  sugar  1  cup  cream,  whipped 

1  teaspoon    baking  powder                      1  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

^  teaspoon  salt  2  egg  whites 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  combined  egg  yolks,  cream,  and 
butter.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  hot  waffle  iron. 
Serve  mth  maple  syrup  or  honey  and  sausages. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  GRmDLE  CAKES 


1 

cup  whole  wheal  flour 

3 

tablespoons  bro 

Vi 

cup  flour 

2 

eggs 

Vi 

cup  quick  oatmeal 

1 

cup  sour  cream 

1 

teaspoon  soda 

1 

cup  sour  milk 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

Combine    dry   ingredients.      Add    coiidjined    liquid    ingredients    and 
beat  well.    The  hatter  will  be  thick.     Bake  on  hot  griddle. 


31 


^C: 

ff^r^i  - 

4- 

L^nI 

1    '^ 

^t  ^  *1 

R^S 

■H^^! 

^*H 

^^^^B:^  «^ 

■ft  ^ 

^^■l^-^ 

1  V^ 

Cookies 
and   Frostinss 


^^"^ 


■■k    ^ 


if  rp " 


ASSORTMENT  OF  COOKIES 

AT  LEFT:  not  only  interesting  and  inviting,  but  the  kind 
of  cookies  which  disappear  quickly  from  plate  and  cookie 
jar.  Every  one  of  the  more  than  fifty  recipes  in  this  section 
is  a  real  taste  treat. 


»/2 

1 

1 

1 

1 

2 


cup  butler 

cup  sugar 

egg 

cup  nut  meats,  coarsely  broken 

cup  raisins,  cut 

cups  flour  ' 


APPLESAUCE  CAKE 

1      teaspoon  soda 
^    teaspoon  salt 


teaspoon  cloves 
}'2    teaspoon  nutmeg 
1      teaspoon  cinnamon 
1      cup  thick  applesauce 

Add    egg,    heat    well. 


Add 


Cream    butter    and    sugar    thoroughly. 

nut  meats  and  raisins.  Sift  drv  ingredients  together  three  times,  add 
alternately  with  applesauce,  beat  well.  Bake  in  buttered  loaf  pan 
(8x4x3  inches  I    in  a  moderate  oven   (350^   F.I   45  minutes. 


APPLESAUCE  COOKIES 

^    teaspoon  soda 

1      teaspoon  baking  powder 


1      cup  thick  unsweetened 

applesauce 
^  cup  raisins 
^    cup  chopped  nut  meats 


Yz  <"up  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

1  egg 

2Y2   cups  sifted  flour 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

^  teaspoon  cloves 

Ys  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  egg. 
Beat  well.  Sift  together  flour,  cinnamon,  cloves,  salt,  soda,  and  bak- 
ing powder.  Add  alternately  with  applesauce  to  creamed  mixture. 
Add  raisins  and  nuts.  Drop  from  spoon  on  greased  cookie  sheet  about 
two  inches  apart.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  (400°  F. )  15  to 
20  minutes. 

BAKED  FRENCH  BREAKFAST  DOUGHNUTS 

(12  to  18  doughnuts  I 
5      tablespoons   butter 
Yo    cup   sugar 
1      egg,   beaten 
1 Y2    cups   flour 

2 '4    teaspoons    baking    powder 
I4    teaspoon    salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  egg.  mix  well.  Add  sifted 
dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Fill  buttered  muffin  tins  half 
full.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350-  F.)  20  to  25  minutes.  Take 
out  of  pan  immediately,  roll  in  butter,  sugar,  and  cinnamon. 


'4  teaspoon    nutmeg 

Yi  cup   milk 

6  tablespoons    butter,    melted 

Yi  cup   sugar 

1  teaspoon   cinnamon 


33 


BANANA  CAKE 

V2    cup  butter  2  rups  cake  flouf 

1  Vi   cups  sugar  V^  teaspoon  soda 

1      cup  banana,  mashed  1  teaspoon   baking  powder 

Y2    cup  dates,  chopped  ^4  eup  nut  meats 

1      cup  crushed  pineapple,  drained  Ys  cup  sour  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroiighlv,  add  bananas,  dates,  and  pine- 
apple. Sift  dry  ingredients  three  times,  mix  in  the  nuts  and  add 
ahernately  with  sour  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F. )  35 
to  40  minutes.      Frost  with  caramel  icing. 

BANANA  DROP  COOKIES 

1      cup  butter  1      teaspoon   baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  1      teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Ys    cup  sour  cream 

1 14  cups  banana,  mashed  Y2    eup  walnut  meats 

3  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  eggs  and  bananas.  Add 
sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  cream,  add  nuts.  Drop  by 
teaspoonfuls  on  buttered  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350     F.)    12  to  15  minutes. 

BLITZ  TORTE 

(Serves   16) 

Y2  cup    butler  1  cup   cake   flour 

1 2  cup    sugar  1  teaspoon    baking    powder 

1  teaspoon    vanilla  Ys  teaspoon  salt 

4  egg  yolks,  well  beaten  3  tablespoons    milk 

Topping 

%    cup    sugar  Yi    teaspoon  cinnamon 

4      egg    whites  1      tablespoon    sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  vanilla.  Add  egg  yolks, 
beating  well.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  milk. 
Pour  into  two  cake  pans  lined  with  waxed  paper.  Beat  egg  whites 
until  stiff,  fold  in  sugar,  then  spread  over  cake  batter.  Sprinkle 
sugar  and  cinnamon  over  top.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F. )  30  to 
40  minutes.  When  cool  spread  custard  filling  between  layers.  May 
be  served  with  whipped  cream. 

Custard  Filling 

Yi    cup    sugar  2    cups    scalded    milk 

2  tablespoons    cornstarch  Almond    flavoring 
2      egg   yolks,   beaten 

Blend  sugar  and  cornstarch,  add  egg  yolks.  Pour  milk  on  this  mix- 
ture and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Add  flavoring.  Cool 
before   putting   Ijetween   layers. 


34 


BROWNIES 

(2  dozen) 

1  nip    bulter  14    *"<'P    focoa 

2  cupM    siigur  2      cups    cake    flour 

1  teaspoon    vanilla  1      cup    nul    meats 

2  eggs,    well    beaten 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  athl  vanilla  and  eggs.  Add 
combined  cocoa  and  flour,  beat  well.  Add  nut  meats.  Bake  in  but- 
tered baking  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F. )  20  to  25  minutes. 
Cool,  cut  in  squares  or  strips  before  removing  from  pan. 

BUTTER   CAKE 

^    cup  butter  2      eggs,  well  beaten 

154  cups  sugar,  sifted  2%   cups  cake  flour 

M    teaspoon  salt  2      teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract  1      cup  milk 
\i    teaspoon  mace 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  salt,  flavorings,  and  eggs; 
blend  well.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  three  times,  add  alter- 
nately with  milk.  Bake  in  two  buttered  layer  pans  (9  inches)  in 
a  moderate  oven    ( 350'    F. )    25  to   30  minutes. 

BUTTERMILK  DOUGHNUTS 

(40  doughnuts  I 
2^    tablespoons    butter  1      teaspoon   soda 

1^-2    cups    sugar  M    teaspoon   salt 

2  eggs  Yi    teaspoon    ginger 
4      cups    flour    (approximately)  Yz    teaspoon   nutmeg 
2      teaspoons   baking   powder  1      cup    buttermilk 

Combine  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs,  beat  well.  Sift  3  cups  flour 
and  remaining  dry  ingredients  together  three  times;  add  alternately 
with  buttermilk,  mix.  Add  remaining  flour  slowly  until  dough  is 
of  right  consistency  for  rolling.     Roll.  cut.  fry  in  deep  fat   (365     P.). 

BUTTERMILK  TORTE 

(Serves  12  to   161 

?4    cup  butter  1      teaspoon   cinnamon 

2      cups    brown    sugar  ^    teaspoon   cloves 

1  teaspoon    vanilla  14    teaspoon    salt 

2  egg  yolks  II4  cups  buttermilk 
25^  cups  cake  flour  1  cup  brown  sugar 
1      teaspoon    soda  2      egg    whites 

1      teaspoon    baking   powder  14    t*>    1    eup   nul   meats,   chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  vanilla  and  egg  yolks,  mix 
well.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately  with 
buttermilk,  mix  until  smooth.  Pour  into  buttered  and  floured  torte 
pan.  Combine  brown  sugar  and  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  slowly. 
Spread  on  batter,  sprinkle  with  nut  meats.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven    (350     F.I    35  to  45  minutes. 


35 


BUTTERSCOTCH  REFRIGERATOR  COOKIES 


1  Vi    Clips   butter 

XYi    cups   brown    sugar 
3      eggs,   beaten 

2  teaspoons   vanilla 


3'>    to    4    cups    flour 

1      teaspoon    baking    powder 

^•2    teaspoon    soda 

^4    teaspoon    salt 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Add 
sifted  dry  ingredients  to  make  a  dough.  Chill.  Shape  into  two  rolls, 
2  to  3  inches  thick.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper,  chill.  Slice  when  firm. 
Bake  on  buttered  cookie  sheet  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375  F. ) 
10  to  12  minutes. 


CHOCOLATE   SPONGE  CAKE 


2      squares  chocolate 

1  Yi  cups  sugar 

1      cup  milk 

1      teaspoon  vanilla 

H4  cups  cake  flour 


2*4    teaspoons   baking   powder 

^•2    teaspoon  salt 

2      tablespoons  water 

4      egg  Tolks 

4      egg  whites 


Add  chocolate  and  I/2  cup  sugar  to  milk  in  double  boiler,  cook  10 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Cool  covered,  stirring  occasionally.  Add 
vanilla.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  1/4  cup  sugar  together 
three  times.  Add  water  to  egg  yolks,  beat  with  rotary  heater  until 
thick  and  lemon  colored.  Add  14  cup  sugar  gradually,  beating  until 
thick,  about  5  minutes.  Fold  dry  ingredients  in  alternately  with 
chocolate  mixture,  one-half  at  a  time,  adding  half  of  chocolate  mix- 
ture last.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  buttered  pan 
(91/^x12  inches)    in  a  moderate  oven   (350     F.)    30  to  40  minutes. 


Brinvnii'S  —  »«><?  rpripp  nn  piipi'  .15. 


X, 


X, 


CHOCOLATE   CREAM  CAKE 


1  cup  »liipping  cream 
3      egg  whites 

2  ciip.s  cuke  flour 
1  l/t  cups  sugar 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder 


4  tablespoons  co<-<>u 

54  teaspoon  salt 

54  eup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Whip  cream  stiff,  add  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  mix  together  lightly. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately  with  com- 
bined milk  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  two  buttered  and  floured  layer 
cake  pans  or  square  loaf  pan  { 10-inch  I  in  a  moderate  oven  (350^  F.) 
30  to  35  minutes  for  lavers  or  45  minutes  for  loaf. 


CHOCOLATE  DROP  COOKIES 


54    f"P  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  squares    chocolate,    melted 
2      eggs,  beaten 

54    teaspoon  vanilla , 
154  cups  flour 


1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

54  teaspoon  salt 

54  teaspoon  soda 

54  cup  milk 

1  cup  nut  meats 

1  cup    raisins    or    dates 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughlv,  add  chocolate,  eggs,  and  vanilla: 
mix  thoroughly.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk, 
stir  until  well  blended.  Add  nut  meats  and  fruit.  Drop  by  teaspoon- 
fuls,  two  inches  apart,  on  buttered  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven    (350"   F. )    12  to   15  minutes. 


CHOCOLATE  POTATO  CAKE 


54 

2 

4 

2 

2 

1 

1 


cup  butter 

cups  sugar 

egg  yolks,  beaten 

cups  cake  flour 

teaspoons   baking   powder 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

teaspoon  cloves 


teaspoon  nutmeg 

cup  milk 

cup  hot   mashed  potatoes 

squares    chocolate,    grated 

cup  walnuts,  chopped 

egg  whites 


Rind  of  1  lemon,  grated 


Cream  Ijixtter  and  sugar  thoroughlv,  add  egg  yolks.  Add  sifted  dry 
ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Then  add  lukewarm  potatoes  in 
which  the  chocolate  has  been  melted,  add  walnuts.  Fold  in  beaten 
egg  whites.  Bake  in  lavers  or  in  flat  loaf  tin  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350'  F. )  35  to  45  minutes.  ■Vote:  1  cup  cottage  cheese  may  be  used 
instead  of  mashed  potatoes.  When  using  cottage  cheese  the  chocolate 
should   be   melted.      Cover   with   icing. 


37 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  CAKE 

(Serves  12  to  16) 

^4    cup    cake    flour  ^    cup    sugar 

1      teaspoon    baking    powder  ^    cup  butler 

I4    teaspoon    salt  1      egg,  slightly   beaten 

Combine  all  ingredients  like  pie  crust,  using  egg  for  liquid.  Line 
a  torte  pan  that  is  5  inches  deep. 

Filling 
1/4    pounds   cottage  cheese  2      tablespoons   butter,   melted 

iy2    cups   sugar  Rind  of    1    lemon,   grated 

5      egg    yolks  Juice    of    1    lemon 

^4    eup    flour  5      egg    whites 

14    teaspoon    nutmeg  2      tablespoons    cream 

Sieve  cheese  twice.  Add  sugar,  egg  yolks,  flour,  nutmeg,  butter,  lemon 
rind,  and  lemon  juice.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  cream. 
Pour  into  crust.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425^  F.)  5  minutes,  reduce 
to  moderately  slow  oven    (325'-    F. )    and  bake  until  filling  is   firm. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  REFRIGERATOR  COOKIES 

Vi    cup    butter  2      teaspoons   baking   powder 

^4    eup   cottage  cheese  ^    cup    sugar 

154    cups    flour  Y2    teaspoon   salt 

Blend  butter  and  cheese  thoroughly.  Gradually  add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients. Form  into  a  loaf  or  roll,  chill  overnight,  slice  thin. 
Bake  on  buttered  baking  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven  (350"  F.)  10 
minutes,  or  until   delicately  browned. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  TORTE 

(Serves  16  to  20) 

Crust 
30   graham   crackers,   rolled    fine  14    cup  butter,  melted 

1  cup   sugar    (scant) 

Remove  a  portion  of  the  crumbs  for  top.  Combine  all  ingredients, 
mix  well.  Press  into  two  long,  narrow  pans.  Bake  5  minutes  in 
moderate  oven. 

Filling 

2  pounds    cottage    cheese  5      eggs,    beaten 
1      cup    sugar  1      cup  cream 
14    cup    flour  Y2    eup   milk 

1      teaspoon  vanilla  Salt 

Sieve  cottage  cheese,  add  sifted  dry  ingredients,  then  vanilla,  eggs, 
combined  cream,  milk,  and  salt.  Pour  into  crust,  cover  with  remain- 
ing crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425  F. )  15  minutes,  reduce  heat 
to  a  moderate  oven    ( 350°  F. ) ,  bake  until  firm. 


38 


CREAM  DOUGHNUTS 

(36  to  40  doughnuts) 
eggs  V2    teaspoon    nutmeg 

egg    yolks  2      teaspoons   salt 

nip   sugar  ^    cup   thick   cream 

cups    flour  ^4    eup   milk 


teaspoons    baking    powder  ^    teaspoon    lemon    extract 

Beat  eggs  and  egg  yolks  together,  add  sugar  gradually.  Sift  dry  in- 
gredients together  two  times,  add  alternately  with  cream,  milk,  and 
lemon  extract.  Pat  and  roll  out  Y3  inch  thick.  Cut  with  dough- 
nut cutter.  Fry  in  deep  fat  at  365^  to  375*^  F.  until  hrowned. 
Drain  on  paper. 

FRUIT  CENTER  CHEESE  DAINTIES 

(18  to  20) 

?4    eup  butter  2^2    cups   flour 

1*4    cups   cottage   cheese  ^3    to    Y2    cup    cold    water 

Combine  all  ingredients  as  for  pie  crust.  Chill  dough  for  an  hour. 
Roll,  cut  in  rectangles,  fill  with  fruit  ( preferably  applesauce.,  dates, 
or  apricots).  Fold  in  half,  pinch  edges  together  with  fingers.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  (400*^  F.)  15  to  20  minutes.  While  hot,  frost  with 
butter  frosting    (optional). 


GOLD  CAKE 

^  cup  butter  2  cups  cake  flour 

1  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons   baking   powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  ^  teaspoon  salt 

3  egg  yolks,  well  beaten  ?4  eup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  vanilla  and  egg  yolks,  beat 
well.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately  with 
milk.  Bake  in  buttered  sheet  pan  (91/4x14  inches)  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350°  F.)   55  to  60  minutes. 


ff  recipe  on  tliis  pa^r. 


.^1 


IV 


'-\ 


^■^>^' 


m^' 


m 


Duuu,lmiit> 


Sff  li'Cipr  i>n  pu 


FRUIT  COOKIES 


H    <'"P    butler 

1      flip    brown    sugar 

1      egg,   beaten 

1%   cups  flour  (reserve  small 

amount) 
1/^    teaspoon    sail 


^  teaspoon    soda 

M  cup    thick    sour    milk 

%  cup    pecans,   broken 

^  cup  candied  cherries,  cliopped 

^  cup  dates,  chopped 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  egg.  Add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients ahernately  with  sour  milk,  add  nuts  and  fruit  with  last 
addition  of  flour.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  buttered  baking  sheet. 
If  desired,  place  a  pecan  on  each  cookie.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°   F.)    12  to  15  minutes. 


GOLDEN  GLOW  CAKE 

2  cups  cake  flour  3      egg  yolks,  beaten 

3  teaspoons   baking   powder  3 
1^4    cups  sugar  14 
%    teaspoon  salt  1 
1'4   cups  whipping  cream  1^2 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times.  Whip  cream  until  very 
stiff.  Fold  egg  yolks  through  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  then  fold  into 
cream.  Add  water  and  extracts  slowly.  Fold  into  dry  ingredients. 
Bake  in  two  buttered  and  floured  pans  (8  or  S^/^  inches)  in  a  mod- 
erate oven    (350"    F. )    30  to  35   minutes. 


egg  whites 
cup  water 
teaspoon  vanilla 
teaspoon  lemon  extract 


HONEY  SPICE  CAKE 


1 
2 
2 
4 


cup  butler 
cups  honey 
eggs,  well  beaten 
cups  flour 

Blend   butter    and    honey,    add   eggs. 

three  times,  add  alternately  mth  sour  milk.     Bake  in  buttered  pan 

in  a  moderatelv  hot  oven    (375"^   to  400°   F.)    45  minutes. 


teaspoon  soda 
teaspoon  ginger 
teaspoon  cinnamon 
cup  sour  milk 

Sift   dry  ingredients  together 


40 


HOT  MILK   SPONGE  CAKE 

cup  !siigur  2      teaspoons   baking   powder 

efJSs.  sliftlilly  beaten  Yn    teaspoon  salt 

teaspoon   flavoring:  2       tablespoons  butter 

cup  cake  flour  \<i    cup  hot  milk 

Combine  siij;ar  and  eggs,  beat  thoroughly,  add  flavoring.  Add  sifted 
dry  ingredients,  mix  well.  Combine  butter  and  milk,  stir  until  but- 
ter melts,  add  to  cake  mixture.  Mix  until  smooth.  Bake  in  ])uttered 
pan  in  a  moderate  oven   (.350     F.I    30  to  40  minutes. 


LAZY  DAISY  CAKE 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon    baking    powder 

1  cup  sugar  \^  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Yi  cup  milk 

1  cup  cake  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

Combine  eggs,  sugar,  and  vanilla  and  beat  until  thick.  Add  sifted 
dry  ingredients.  Heat  milk  and  butter  to  boiling  point,  add  to  above 
mixture.  Bake  in  buttered  pan  (8x8  inches)  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350^  F. )   30  to  40  rliinutes.     Remove  from  oven  and  frost. 

Frosting 

?4    eup  brown  sugar  %    cup  cream 

1^^    cup  butter,  melted  1      cup  coconut 

Combine  all  ingredients,  blend  well.  Frost  cake,  return  to  hot 
oven   or   broiler   to   brown. 


■>imi 


•'^•''..~ 


NUT  CAKE 

^3    cup  btiller  V^  teaspoon  salt 

1      cup  brown  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  cup   walnuts   or   butternuts, 

2  egg  yolks  crushed 
11/3  cups  cake  flour  2  egg  whiles 
2      teaspoons   baking   powder 

Cream  butter  and  brown  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  vanilla,  then  egg 
yolks,  mix  well.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternatelv  with  milk. 
Add  nut  meats,  stir  slightly.  Add  beaten  egg  whites,  folding  lightly. 
Bake  in  two  buttered  layer  pans  (8-inch)  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)   30  minutes. 

NUT  DEVIL'S  FOOD 

Vi    cup  butter  1      teaspoon  baking  powder 

V^    cup  sugar  ^4    teaspoon  soda 

1/4  cups  brown  sugar  %    eup  sour  milk 

4      squares   chocolate,   melted  l'^  cups  nut  meats,  ground 

4     egg  yolks  2      egg  whites 

1^-2   cups  cake  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  chocolate  and  egg  yolks, 
beat  well.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately 
with  sour  milk.  Add  nut  meats.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
Bake  in  three  buttered  layer  pans  (8-inch)  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350"   F.)    30  to  40  minutes. 

NUT  REFRIGERATOR  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter  4      cups   flour 

2  cups   brown   sugar  V^    teaspoon    soda 

1  teaspoon   vanilla  1      teaspoon   baking   powder 

2  eggs,    beaten  Y^    teaspoon   salt 
1      cup   nut    meats,   broken 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  vanilla  and  eggs,  add  nut  meats.  Add 
sifted  dry  ingredients,  mix  well.  Form  into  one  long  roll,  wrap  in 
waxed  paper,  chill  overnight.  Cut  in  thin  slices.  Bake  on  buttered 
cookie  sheet  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F. )   10  to  15  minutes. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

(41/4   dozen) 

1  cup  butter  2      teaspoons   cinnamon 
l?t    cups  brown   sugar  ?4    eup    sour    milk 

2  eggs   or   6   egg   yolks  2      cups   rolled   oats 

2      cups   flour  Yi    cup   nut   meats,   broken 

1      teaspoon  salt  1      cup  raisins,   coarsely  ground 

1      teaspoon   soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  eggs,  beat  well.  Add  sifted 
dry  ingredients  alternately  with  sour  milk.  Mix  oats,  nut  meats,  and 
raisins  together,  add.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  o\en   (350°  F.)    12  to  15  minutes. 


42 


ORANGE  AND  DATE  CAKE 

'  12  c-iip  butler  1  teaspoon   baking  powder 

1  Clip  brown  sugar  ^  teaspoon  sail 

2  esKS.  well  beaten  ?4  (-iip  sour  milk 
2  cups  rake  flour  1  cup  dates 

14    teaspoon  soda  1      whole  orange 

Cream  Itutter  and  sugar  fhoroiiphly.  add  cj:gs.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
together  three  times,  add  ahernately  with  sour  milk  and  ground 
dates  and  orange.  Bake  in  huttered  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350^  F.)    50  to  60  minutes. 

ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR  CAKE 

(3  9-inch  layers) 

1  cup  butter  3      cups  sifted  cake  flour 

2  cups  sugar  '4    teaspoon  salt 

4      eggs,  separated  3      teaspoons  baking  powder 

1      teaspoon  vanilla  1      cup  milk 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar  until  fluffy.  Add  egg  yolks  one  at  a 
time,  heating  thoroughly  after  each  one  is  added.  Sift  dry  ingredi- 
ents together  three  times  and  add  alternately  with  milk  and  vanilla 
to  creamed  mixture,  heating  until  smooth  after  each  addition.  Fold 
in  stiffly  heaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  pans  lined  with  wax  paper 
and  hake  in  moderate  oven   (350'  F.)   25  minutes. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  CAKE 

Vi    cup  butter  15^2   cups  cake  flour 

IV2  cups  brown  sugar  ^    teaspoon  salt 

V2    eup  peanut  butter  2      teaspoons   baking   powder 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  Y^    cup  milk 

2  eggs,  beaten 

Cream  hutter  and  sugar,  add  peanut  butter  and  cream  again.  Add 
vanilla  and  eggs,  beat  well.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately 
with  milk.  Bake  in  buttered  pan  (8-inch)  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350     F.I   50  minutes. 

Cream  Cheese  Frosting 

3  ounces    (5^   eup)    cream   cheese  1      teaspoon  vanilla 
2^2    cups  confectioners'   sugar  I4    cup  cream 

Combine   all  ingredients,  blend  thoroughly.     Spread  on  cake. 
PEANUT  ICE   BOX  COOKIES 

1  cup   butter  2      cups    flour 

2  cups   brown    sugar  ^4    teaspoon    soda 

2      eggs,   beaten  1      cup   peanuts,   chopped 

Cream  l)utter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients, 
mix  thoroughly.  Add  peanuts.  Chill  dough.  Form  in  small  rolls. 
Chill  until  firm,  slice.  Bake  on  buttered  cookie  sheet  in  a  moder- 
atelv   hot   oven    (375'    F.  I    12   to    15    minutes. 


43 


1 

2 

»-ake    compressed    yeast 
cups    scalded    milk,    cooled 
to    lukewarm 

7 
4 
1 

cups    flour 
egg    yolks 
egg 

PECAN  DELIGHTS 

(11/2   dozen) 
Va    «^"P  butter  's    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

54   f"P  light  brown  sugar  Yl    eup  chopped  pecans 

1      egg  yolk  Pecan  halves 

1      cup  flour 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  whiclt 
have  been  sifted  together.  Add  the  chopped  pecans.  Form  tea- 
spoons of  dough  into  balls  and  place  on  baking  sheets.  Top  each 
cookie  with  a  pecan  half  and  bake  in  a  very  juoderate  oven  (325°  F.) 
12  to   15  minutes.     Remove  immediately  from  the  baking  sheets. 

POLISH  DOUGHNUTS 

Yi    cup   sugar 

^2    teaspoon   vanilla 

Rind   of    Y2    lemon,   grated 

1      teaspoon    salt 

Yi    cup   butter,   melted 

Dissolve  yeast  in  milk.  Add  2  cups  flour.  Let  stand  in  warm  place 
about  1/2  hour.  Beat  egg  yolks,  egg,  sugar,  vanilla,  lemon  rind, 
and  salt  together  until  light,  add  to  first  mixture.  Add  butter. 
Add  remaining  flour,  beat  well.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  double  in 
bulk.  Put  on  floured  board,  pat  until  dough  is  14  inch  thick. 
Cut  with  doughnut  cutter  and  let  rise.  Fry  in  deep  hot  fat  (365 
to  375     F. )    about  3  minutes. 

POTATO  DOUGHNUTS 

(3  dozen) 
3      tablespoons    butter  4      teaspoons   baking   ponder 

%    cup   sugar  1      teaspoon   salt 

3      eggs,   well   beaten  '  s    teaspoon   nutmeg 

1      cup   boiled   potatoes,    niasiied  ^;s    teaspoon   mace 

2^4    cups   flour  irt    cup   milk 

Combine  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  potatoes,  blending  well. 
Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Chill,  roll,  cut. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  at  365     to  375     F. 

PRALINE  COOKIES 

(3  dozen) 
Yi    cup  butter  1 Y2    cups  all-purpose  flour 

\Yi    cups  brown  sugar  1      teaspoon  vanilla 

1      egg  1      cup  pecans 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  and  cream  thoroughly.  Add  egg  and  beat 
until  fluffy.  Add  flour,  vanilla,  and  chopped  nuts.  Mix  well.  Shape 
in  balls  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut,  place  on  buttered  cookie  sheets 
and  flatten  out  to  about  y^  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(375     F. )   for  12  minutes,  or  until  nicely  browned. 


44 


Finintl  Cake  —  jip*'  recipe  an  this  pafse* 


POUND  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 

2  cups  sugar 
Juice  of  1  lemon 

Rind  of  1  lemon,  grated 
10   egg  yolks 
1      teaspoon  salt 


3      cups    flour    (reserve   some    for 
dusting    fruit   and   nut   meats) 
3      teaspoons   baking   powder 
1      cup  milk 
1      cup  seedless  raisins 
1  ^  i    cups   pecan   meats,  chopped 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind. 
Add  egg  yolks,  two  or  three  at  a  time,  heating  until  light  and  creamy. 
Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Add  raisins  and 
nut  meats  dusted  with  flour.  Bake  in  a  buttered  tube  pan  ( 10-inch  i 
in  a  moderately  slow  oven    (325"    F.I    II/2  to  1%  hours. 

PUMPKIN  CAKE 


»/2 

cup  butter 

H 

teaspoon  soda 

V" 

cup  sugar 

3 

teaspoons   baking   powder 

l' 

cup  brown  sugar 

H 

teaspoon  salt 

2 

eggs,  well  beaten 

»/2 

cup  sour  milk 

=•4 

cup  pumpkin 

% 

cup   nut   meats,   chopped   and 

2 

tablespoons   maple 

syrup 

floured 

2 

cups  cake  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  eggs,  add  pumpkin  and 
syrup,  mix  thoroughly.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times, 
add  alternately  with  milk.  Add  nut  meats.  Bake  in  buttered  pan 
(8x12x2  inches)   in  a  moderate  oven   (350"  F.I   30  to  40  minutes. 


45 


REFRIGERATOR  CHEESE  CAKE 

(Serves   10  to   12) 


Yi  cup   biilter,    melted 

?4  •■"?   sugar 

2  rups   zwieback    crumbs,    fine 

2  teaspoons    cinnamon 

2  tablespoons   gelatin 

'/2  <■"?   cold   water 

Vi  cup   milk 


3  egg   yolks 

2  cups   cream   cheese 

3  tablespoons   lemon    juice 

1  tablespoon   lemon   rind,   grated 

14  teaspoon   salt 

1  cup    whipping   cream 

3  egg  whites 


Blend  butter,  ^/^  cup  sugar,  cruiiiljs,  and  cinnamon.  Press  three- 
fourths  of  this  mixture  on  bottom  and  sides  of  9-inch  spring  form 
pan.  Soften  gelatin  in  I/2  f"P  water  5  minutes.  Cook  egg  yolks, 
remaining  sugar,  and  milk  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  coats  spoon.  Add  gelatin  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add 
gradually  to  cream  cheese:  add  lemon  juice,  rind,  and  salt,  beat 
thoroughly.  Cool.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken  beat  several 
minutes  with  egg  beater.  Whip  cream,  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites,  blend  thoroughly.  Pour  over  crumbs.  Sprinkle  remaining 
crumbs   over   top.      Chill   until   firm. 


ROLLED  GINGER  COOKIES 

(7  dozen) 


1      cup   butter 

1      cup   sugar 

1      cup  molasses 

4  V2    cups    flour 

1  Vi    teaspoons   soda 


V^    teaspoon    salt 
1      teaspoon    cinnamon 
1      teaspoon    ginger 
%    cup    sour    milk 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  molasses,  beat  thoroughly. 
Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  sour  milk.  Chill,  roll 
thin,    cut.      Bake    on    buttered    cookie    sheet    in    a    moderate    oven 

(350     F.)    10  to   15  minutes. 

SALTED  PEANUT  CAKE 

Yi    cup  butter  Vi  teaspoon   baking   powder 

1      cup  sugar  V2  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  ?4  cup  sour  milk 

2  eggs  1  cup   salted   peanuts,   ground 
1 V2   cups  cake  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  vanilla  and  eggs.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately  with  sour  milk,  mix 
well.  Add  %  cup  peanuts.  Bake  in  buttered  pan  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350  F. )  30  to  40  minutes.  Spread  remaining  salted  peanuts 
on  top  of  frosting. 

SAND  DABS 

1      cup  butler  Pinch  of  salt 

14    cnp  confectioners'   (XXXX)  V2    teaspoon  vanilla 

sugar  2      cups  flour 
Yi    cnp  chopped  pecans 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  vanilla  and  mix  well.  Add  flour 
and  nuts.  Chill  dough.  Shape  into  rolls,  lead  pencil  size,  two  inches 
long.    Bake  on  a  buttered  cookie  sheet  at  (375"  F. »  15  to  20  minutes. 


46 


SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD 

5      I'tip^    lluiir  1    Clip    broM'n    sti^ar 

2      cups   butter  Pinch  of  salt 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  flour.  Mold  ingredients  into  a  hall 
of  dough.  Pat  and  roll  dough  Yj  inch  thick,  cut  into  diamonds 
or  squares.  (These  may  he  cut  into  assorted  shapes  and  decorated 
if  desired.  I  Place  on  a  baking  sheet  and  bake  at  325  F.  about  30 
minutes   or   until   very   light   brown. 

SOFT  GINGER  COOKIES 

(5  dozen  I 

^  cup    evaporated    milk  3  cups    .sifted    flour 

%t  tablespoon    vinegar  2  teaspoons    soda 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon   salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon    ginger 

1  egg  1  teaspoon    cinnamon 

V^  cup  molasses 

Combine  milk  and  vinegar.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly. 
Add  egg  and  molasses.  Beat  well.  Add  the  soured  evaporated  milk 
and  blend  well.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Drop  from  teaspoon 
on  buttered  baking  ^heet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375-400  F. ) 
about   15   minutes. 

SORGHUM  COOKIES 

( 7  dozen  I 

1      cup   butter  3^4    cups    flour    (approximately) 

1  cup   sorghum  1      teaspoon   soda 
V2    cup   sugar                                                     1      teaspoon   ginger 

2  eggs 

Combine  butter,  sorghum,  and  sugar;  place  over  fire  until  melted: 
cool.  Add  eggs,  beat  well.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients,  mix.  Chill. 
Roll  and  cut.  Bake  on  buttered  cookie  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350"    to   375    )    18  to   20   miinites. 

SOUR  CREAM  CAKE 

^    cup  butter  1?4   cups  cake  flour 

1  cup  sugar  Yi    teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  V^    teaspoon  soda 
Rind    of    1    lemon,    grated  1      cup  sour  cream 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  eggs,  beat.  Add  lemon  rind. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternatelv  with  cream, 
beat  half  a  minute.  Pour  in  buttered  pan  (8x11  inches!  or  in  two 
layers.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350-   F.)    30  to  40  minutes. 

SOUR  CREAM  SPICE  CAKE 

^  cup  butter 

2  cups  brown  sugar 

3  egg  yolks 
2  cups  cake  flour 
M  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cloves 

Cream  butter  and  brown  sugar  thoroughlv,  add  egg  volks.  beat  thor- 
oughly. Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately 
with  sour  cream.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  buttered 
pan  in  a  moderate  oven    (350"   F.)    45  to  50  minutes. 


47 


1 

teaspoon  allspice 

1 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/2 

teaspoon   baking  powder 

1/2 

teaspoon  soda 

1 

cup  sour  cream 

3 

egg  whites 

SPICE  CAKE 

Y2    cup  butter  1  teaspoon  allspice 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^4  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Vi  teaspoon  soda 
1 1'^i  cups  cake  flour  1  cup  sour  milk 
1      teaspoon  cinnamon  ]/2  cup  raisins 

1      teaspoon  cloves  Y2    cup  nut  meats 

Blend  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three 
times,  add  alternately  with  milk.  Add  raisins  and  nut  meats,  stir 
thoroughly  but  do  not  beat.  Pour  in  buttered  baking  pan.  Sprinkle 
top  with: 

M    cup  brown  sugar  14,    cup  nut  meats,  broken 

^    cup  raisins,  cut 

This  forms  the  frosting.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  40 
minutes. 

SPICED  DEVIL'S  FOOD 

1/3    cup  butter  2      teaspoons   baking   powder 

1  cup  sugar  1      teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  Yt    teaspoon  salt 

1      square  chocolate,   melted  %    teaspoon  cloves 

1 V^   cups  cake  flour  1      cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  eggs  and  chocolate.  Add 
sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Bake  in  buttered  pan 
in  a  moderate  oven   (350     F.)    30  to  40  minutes. 

SPRITZ  BAKELSE 

1      cup   butter  2%    cups    flour 

%    cup   sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

3  egg   yolks   or  1    whole   egg,                 Y2    teaspoon    baking    powder 
beaten  %    teaspoon    almond    extract 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  eggs.  Add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients. Chill.  Put  through  cookie  press  in  various  patterns. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350°  F.)    10  to  12  minutes. 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

(5  dozen) 

1  cup    butter  5  cups    flour    (approximately) 

2  cups    sugar  14  teaspoon    soda 

Y2    teaspoon    lemon    extract    or  2  teaspoons   baking  powder 

orange    peel,    grated  Y2  teaspoon  nutmeg  or  cinnamon 

3  eggs,    slightly    beaten  1  cup    sour    cream 

Blend  butter  and  sugar,  add  flavoring  and  eggs.  Add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients alternately  with  sour  cream.  Chill,  roll  and  cut.  Bake  on 
buttered  cookie  sheets  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375°  F.)  10  to 
12  minutes. 

SUNSHINE   BUTTER  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  4      cups  cake  flour 

2  cups  sugar  4      teaspoons   baking   powder 
1 Y2   teaspoons  vanilla  1      teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs  15/3  cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  vanilla.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  beating  thoroughly  after  each  addition.  Add  sifted  dry  ingre- 
dients alternately  with  milk.  Bake  in  three  buttered  and  floured 
pans  (9-incli)  in  a  moderate  oven  (350^  F.)  30  to  40  minutes.  When 
cool,  frost  with  butter  frosting. 


48 


UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 


i4  <^i'P  butler 

1  cup  sugar 

Yl  teaspoon   flavorinc 

V^  c*up  milk 

2  e^ju;  whiles 

2  tablespoons  butter 


2      egg  yolks 

1  54  cups  fltuir 

2  teaspoons   baking   poH<ler 
1  cup  brown  sugar 
Pineapple,  sliced  or  diced 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  add  flavoring  and  egg  yolks. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times,  add  alternately  with  milk. 
Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Put  butter  in  bottom  of  heavy  fry- 
ing pan  or  square  baking  pan  (8x8  inches),  melt,  add  browTi  sugar 
and  stir  until  blended.  Arrange  pineapple  over  sugar.  Pour  cake 
batter  over  pineapple.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  2.5  to  30 
minutes.    Turn  upside  down  on  cake  plate  immediately. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE 


1  cup  whipping  cream 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 
1      cup  sugar 

Yo  teaspoon  lemon  extract 


i4    teaspoon  vanilla 

IY2  cups  cake  flour 

2      teaspoons   baking  powder 

Y2    teaspoon  salt 


Whip  cream  until  it  holds  shape,  fold  in  eggs  and  sugar,  mix  lightly, 
add  lemon  extract  and  vanilla.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Bake 
in  two  buttered  layer  pans  in  a  moderate  oven  (375"  F. )  25  to  30 
minutes.     Put  layers  together  with  whipped  cream. 


L' pside  DiHrn  (nhe sef  rrript'  (»rr   thi 


.mjJA...i4.'.mi-iE 


Main   Dishes 


MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

AT  LEFT:  with  grilled  tomatoes  and  olive  sauce,  an  appetiz- 
ing and  attractive  version  of  a  popular  hot  dish.  The  recipe 
is  on  page  53  —  one  of  many  delightful  cheese  main  dishes 
in  this  section. 


ARMENIAN  BEAURACK 


3      cups    flour 

3      teaspoons   baking   powder 

1      teaspoon    salt 


2      eggs 

?4    cup   milk 

6      tablespoons  butter,   melted 


Sift  dry  ingredients.  Place  eggs  in  center  of  dry  ingredients.  Com- 
bine milk  and  butter  and  pour  over  egg.  Blend  all  ingredients  thor- 
oughly. Knead  until  dough  is  smooth.  Flour  hands,  shape  dough 
into  size  of  a  walnut.  Roll  to  Y^  inch  thickness  on  a  lightly  floured 
board. 

Filling 


4      cups    Natural    Brick 

Cheese,    grated 
%    cup    parsley,    chopped 


^    teaspoon    salt 
3      eggs,   beaten 


Combine  all  ingredients.  Put  four  tablespoons  filling  over  half  the 
dough,  bring  other  half  over  fiUed  part  and  press  together,  shaping 
edges  like  pie  crust.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 


BAKED  CHEESE  AND  SHREMP  CUSTARD 

(Serves  6) 


4      slices   buttered   bread    (crusts 

may    be    removed) 
Ys   pound   Natural   American 

Cheese 


1  cup   cooked   shrimp 

2  eggs,  beaten 
1 14    cups   milk 
Yl   teaspoon   salt 


Cut  bread  into  1-inch  squares.  Cut  cheese  into  smaU  pieces.  Arrange 
layers  of  bread,  shrimp,  and  cheese  in  buttered  casserole.  Combine 
eggs,  milk,  and  salt.  Pour  over  contents  of  casserole.  Place  casserole 
in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderately  slow  oven  (325°  F.) 
1   hour. 


51 


1 

cup  milk,  scalded 

»/2 

1 

cup   cream 

% 

2 

eggs,   well  beaten 

2 

2 

cups    Natural    American 
Cheese,  grated 

2 

CHEESE  FONDUE 

(Serves  6  to  8) 

teaspoon    mustard 
teaspoon   salt 
cups   bread   crumbs 
tablespoons    butter 

Combine  first  3  ingredients;  add  cheese,  mustard,  and  salt.  Stir  in 
bread  crundjs.  Pour  into  buttered  casserole,  set  in  hot  water.  Dot 
with  butter.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350^  F. )   40  to  50  minutes. 

CHEESE  FRENCH  TOAST 

(Serves  6) 

3      slices    Natural    American  3      eggs,    beaten 

Cheese    (4x4    inches)  i^    ^yp   ^m^ 

6      slices    whole-nheat   bread,  i^    teaspoon    salt 

buttered 

Make  sandwiches  from  bread  and  cheese,  cut  in  half,  fasten  together 
with  toothpicks.  Dip  in  combined  egg,  milk,  and  salt.  Fry  in  butter 
to  a  delicate  brown. 

CHEESE-HAM  MEDLEY 

(Serves  4) 
2      tablespoons  butter  1      cup   boiled   or    baked   ham, 

2      tablespoons    flour  chopped 

1      cup   milk  y2    teaspoon    salt 

1      cup    Natural    American  Vi    teaspoon    pepper 

Cheese,    finely   cut  Paprika 

Make  white  sauce  with  Ijutter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  cheese,  stir 
until  melted.     Add  ham  and  seasonings.     Serve  hot  over  rice. 


CHEESE  RING 

(Serves  6  to  8) 

2      tablespoons   butter  1      cup    Natural    Swiss 
2      tablespoons    flour  Cheese,    grated 

1      cup    Natural    American  ■*      eggs 

Cheese,   grated  ^4    teaspoon   salt 

1      cup   milk  Dash    cayenne    pepper 

Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  cheese,  stir 
until  cheese  is  melted.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Pour  into  l)uttered  ring  mold  (8I/2  inches  in  diameter, 
21/2  inches  deep).  Set  in  hot  water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350°  F.)  40  to  50  minutes.  Turn  mold  out  when  ring  is  firm.  Fill 
center  with  prepared  vegetables  or  creamed  fish  combinations.  Gar- 
nish with  paprika  or  parsley. 


S2.':':  .'• 


COKINMEAL  SOUFFLE 

(Serves  6  I 

154    flips    milk  2      Clips    Naliirul    Anicriian 

1  teuspoon    suit  Cllieese.   grated 

3  labU-spuons    yellow    rornineal  3      egg    yolks,    well    beulen 

3      egg    whites 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  salt  and  corniiieal.  Cook  until  mix- 
ture thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire,  add  cheese, 
stir  until  well  hlended.  Add  slowly  to  egg  yolks,  stirring  constantly, 
fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Put  in  buttered  casserole  (2-quart) 
set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F. )  50 
to  60  minutes. 

MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SAUCE 

See  full  color  illustration  on  page  50 
( Serves  6 ) 

2  cups    maearoiii  2      cups    INatural    American 

4  tablespoons   butler  Cheese,  grated 

3  tablespoons    flour  1      teaspoon   salt 
214    cups   milk              /  Vs    teaspoon   pepper 

I'z    to    1    cup    stulTed    olives,    sliced 

Cook  macaroni.  Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add 
cheese  (reserving  enough  for  garnishing)  and  salt  and  pepper:  stir 
until  cheese  is  melted.  Add  olives.  Arrange  macaroni  on  warm  serv- 
ing plate  and  pour  sauce  over  it.  Garnish  with  cheese.  Serve  with 
grilled  tomatoes  on  buttered   toast   rounds. 

MACARONI  WITH  CORNED  BEEF 

(Serves  6  to  8) 
2^4   cups  macaroni  2      cups   milk 

l^    12-ounce   can   corned   beef  1      cup   Natural    American 

2      tablespoons  butler  Cheese,   grated 

14    cup    flour  Buttered  crumbs 

Cook  macaroni  in  salted  water.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  macaroni 
and  beef  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Make  a  white  sauce  with  l)Utter. 
flour,  and  milk;  melt  cheese  in  sauce.  Pour  over  macaroni  and  meat. 
Sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F. )  20 
minutes. 

NOODLES  ROMANOFF 

(Serves  6) 

3^   cup  noodles  2      teaspoons    \^'orcestershire    sauce 

1      cup   collage   cheese  Dash  Tobasco   sauce  or  red   pepper 

1      cup   sour   cream  1 2    teaspoon    salt 

'4    cup   onion,    finely    chopped  l^    cup   Natural   American 

1      clove   garlic,   finely  cut  Cheese,   grated 

Cook  noodles.  Add  cottage  cheese,  cream,  onion,  garlic,  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  pepper,  and  salt.  Place  in  buttered  baking  dish  (8-inch). 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350"  F.  I  30  minutes.  Remove  from 
oven,  sprinkle  with  cheese,  return  to  oven  for  10  minutes. 


53 


\i>iMlti's  Hinnntioff  —  see  rfi'ipt'  iin  page  .•».!. 

RICE  LOAF  WITH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE 

(Serves  6) 

IJ^    cups    cooked    rice  1  cup   hot    milk 

1^    cups    Natural    American  14  teaspoon    onion,    chopped 

Cheese,    grated  1^/^  teaspoon    parsley,    chopped 

/4    eup   butler,   melted  \  teaspoon   green    pepper,    minced 

3      eggs,  slightly  beaten  1/2  teaspoon    salt 
Y2    cup   bread   crumbs 

Combine  antl  uiix  all  ingredients.  Put  in  a  buttered  loaf  pan,  set  in 
bot  water,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350"^'  F.)  1  hour.  Serve  with 
hot  mushroom  sauce. 

Mushroom  Sauce 

2  tablespoons   butter  V3    teaspoon    salt 

2  tablespoons    flour  ^    cup    mushroom    liquor 

^/i  cup   milk  '  2    cup  canned  mushrooms,  drained 

Yz  cup   cream 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  stir  until  smooth  paste.  Add  milk,  cream, 
salt,  and  liquor,  stirring  constantly.     Add  mushrooms. 


RICE  MOLDS 

(Serves  6) 

1      cup    iSalural    American 

Cheese,    grated 
Yl    teaspoon    salt 
's    teaspoon    pepper 


2      eggs,    beaten 

1      cup  milk 

1      cup  rice,   cooked 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  buttered 
loaf  pan  or  custard  cups.  Place  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven    (350     F. )    30  to  45  minutes. 


%i 


SAVORY   S\^FSS  EGGS 

( Serves   6  I 


cup    JN'atural    Anierii-an 
Cheese,    grated 
tablespoons    butter 
'2    Clip   cream 


■4    teaspoon    salt 

(layennc    pepper 

I       teaspoon    prepared    nni>tarcl 

6      eg^s.  slijislitly   beaten 


Sproiitl  I'lieesf  over  huttuiii  of  shallow,  well  liiittei-etl  hakin<:  dish. 
Dot  with  hiitter.  Coinbiiie  cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  mustar<l.  pour 
hall  of  this  mixture  over  cheese.  Pour  egfis  into  hakiiii;  dish.  Cover 
with  remaining  creatn  mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F.  1 
25  to  30  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 


SPAGHETTI  DE  LUXE 

(Serves  81 

2      cups    spaghetti  M    cup    niushroonis 

1      tablespoon   butter  1      No.    1   can   tomato   soup 

1      onion,    finely   cut  2      cups   Natural    American 

1      green   pepper,   finely   cut 

14    cup  stuffed  olives,  sliced 


Cheese,   grateil 


Cook  spaghetti.  Melt  butter  in  pan,  add  onion,  pepper,  olives,  iiuish- 
rooms,  and  soup;  heat.  Add  cheese,  stir  until  melted.  Pour  over 
spaghetti.  Bake  in  buttered  casserole  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F.) 
30  minutes. 


"'piililKlli  II,-  l.ii.\ 


set-  r*'fipr  (tbtn'f* 


^  "'^ 

1 

1 

1 

a 

ASSORTED  CANDY  AND  SALTED  NUTS 

AT  LEFT:  lioinc-madc  caruly  is  always  better.  The  illustra- 
tion shows  how  tastefully  such  home-made  candy  can  be 
served.     Many  excellent  candy  recipes  are  shown  from  page 

57   to   59. 


APRICOT  CANDY  ROLL 

3  cups    sugar  2       teaspoons    vanilla 

1  cup   cream  '  2    cup   chopped    nut    meats, 

1  cup   dried    apricots,  chopped  finely   chopped 
Va  teaspoon    salt 

Combine  sugar,  cream,  apricots,  and  salt.  Boil  to  soft  ball  stage 
(236  F.I.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  flavoring  and  nut  meats.  Beat 
until  stiff  enough  to  knead.  Put  on  board.  Knead  until  smooth. 
Shape  into  roll.     Chill.     Slice. 

BUTTER  FUDGE 

2  cups    sugar  V^    cup    butter 

1  cup    milk  1      teaspoon    vanilla 

2  squares    chocolate,    grated  1      cup   nut   meats,   chopped 
'  s    teaspoon    cream    of    tartar 

Combine  first  4  ingredients.  Boil  to  soft  ball  stage  (234^  to  236°  F.). 
Add  butter.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick,  add 
nut  meats.     Pour  into  buttered  pan. 

ENGLISH  TOFFEE 

2      cups    almonds  S      tablespoons  water 

1      cup   sugar  *4    teaspoon  salt 

1      cup   butter  Sweet  chocolate 

Blanch  almonds  and  toast  a  golden  brown  in  oven.  Put  haK  through 
food  chopper  and  cut  remainder  into  large  pieces.  Combine  sugar, 
butter,  and  water,  and  boil  to  300  F.  (brittle  when  dropped  in  cold 
water),  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire,  add  broken  nut  meats 
and  pour  into  buttered  pan.  Grate  sweet  chocolate  over  top  and 
sprinkle  generouslv  with  chopped  nut  meats.  Cool  10  minutes.  Turn 
upside  down  on  waxed  paper  and  sprinkle  with  grated  chocolate 
and  nut   meats. 


57 


>>:^"    ^ 


liitU  src    I  •  ■  .  ,.■     •',.    ,,..^.       -  . 


CARAMELS 

254    cups    su§;ar  2V2    cups   cream 

%    cup  corn   syrup  1      teaspoon    vanilla 

Ys    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  '2    cup   butter 

Combine  first  4  ingredients.  Boil,  stirring  constantly,  to  hard  ))all 
stage  (246°  to  248'  F. ).  Add  vanilla  and  butter.  Pour  into  but- 
tered pans,  when  nearly  cold  cut  into  squares.    Wrap  in  waxed  paper. 

LIGHT  OPERA  CREAMS 

(11/8   pounds) 

V^    teaspoon   salt 
1      teaspoon    vanilla 
1      cup   pecan    meats. 


2  cups  sugar 
•'4  cup  cream 
1      cup    milk 


linelv   cut 


1      tablespoon    light    corn   syrup 


Condjine  first  5  ingredients.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  to  soft  J)all 
stage  (234^  to  236'  F.I.  Remove  from  fire;  cool,  without  stirring, 
until  lukewarm  (110  F.I.  Add  vanilla,  beat  until  creamy.  Add 
pecan  meals.     Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  pan. 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

ll'o    cups  shelled  peanuts  ^    cup  water 


1^4    teaspoon  salt 

1      cup  sugar 

^4    cup  light  corn  syrup 


1^4    tablespoons  butler 

\'^2    teaspoon  lemon  extract 


Sprinkle  nuts  with  salt  and  warm  in  the  oven.  Put  sugar,  corn  syrup, 
and  water  in  pan,  stir  until  it  boils,  wash  down  sides  with  wet  pastry 
brush  and  cook  to  295  F.  or  until  mixture  is  very  brittle  when  tried 
in  cold  water.  Add  flavoring,  butter,  and  nuts,  and  pour  into  a 
shallow,  buttered  i>an.  As  soon  as  it  can  be  handled.  \uin  the  mass 
over  and  pull  and  stretch  it  out  as  thin  as  possible.  Break  into 
irregular  pieces. 


58 


PEANUT   BUTTER   PUDGE 

2  iiips    sugar  1  square   chocolate,    grated 

2  tablespoons    white  corn    sirup          1  teaspoon    butter 

>/4  teaspoon  salt  3  tablespoons  peanut  butter 

^  cup   milk  1  teaspoon   vanilla 

Combine  first  4  ingredients  in  saucepan.  Heat,  stirring  constantly, 
unlil  siifiar  dissolves  and  mixture  comes  to  hoiling  point.  Boil  to 
soft  hall  stage  (232'  to  234  F.I.  Remove  from  fire.  Melt  chocolate 
and  butter  in  another  saucepan.  Pour  half  of  hot  syrup  over  choco- 
late and  butter.  Cool  to  lukewarm  (110  F.),  without  stirring.  Add 
peanut  butter  and  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla  to  remaining  syrup.  Mix  well. 
Pour  at  once  into  buttered  pan  (8x5  inches) .  Add  1/4  teaspoon 
vanilla  to  chocolate  mixture.  Beat  until  thick.  Spread  over  first 
layer. 

PECAN  CRUNCH 

1^4    cups   butter  1      teaspoon    soda 

2*4    cups  sugar         /  V2    cup  pecan  meats,  finely  chopped 

Y2    cup   water  154    cups   pecan   meats,   broken 

Yi    teaspoon    salt  Milk   chocolate 

1  tablespoon   cider  vinegar 

Combine  first  5  ingredients,  bring  slowly  to  a  boil,  stiri-ing  occasion- 
ally. Boil  to  290  F.,  without  stirring,  until  very  brittle  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Mix  soda  with  pecan  crumbs,  add  with  pecan 
meats  to  boiled  mixture,  stirring  only  enough  to  blend.  Pour,  %  inch 
thick,  into  buttered  pan.  When  slightly  cooled  mark  into  squares. 
Cover  top  with  thin  layer  of  melted  milk  chocolate.  Break  into 
pieces  when  cool. 

PENOCHE 

2  cups    brown    sugar  Vi    cup   syrup 

2      cups   sugar  1      teaspoon  vanilla 

2      tablespoons    butter  1      cup    walnuts,   broken,   or 

1 1^    cups   rich    milk  1       cup   coconut 

Combine  first  5  ingredients.  Boil  to  soft  ball  stage  (234^  to  236  F.  I . 
Cool,  add  vanilla.  Beat  until  stiff.  Add  walnuts  or  coconut.  Pour 
into  buttered   ])an. 

SOUR   CREAM  FUDGE 

4Vi    cups   brown    sugar  V2    teaspoon   vanilla 

\^    teaspoon  salt  ^4    cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

2      cups    sour    cream 

Combine  sugar,  salt,  and  cream:  cook  to  soft  ball  stage  (236^  F.I. 
Cool  to  lukewarm,  add  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick  and  creamy.  Add 
nut  meats.     Pour  into  well-buttered  shallow  pan. 


59 


I 


DESSERTS 
Fillings 


<^ 


'  i 


'.^'  'f 


$f  -<^ 


?5 


t 


♦' 

#' 


«. 


i 


I 


CHOCOLATE  PEPPERMINT  PUDDING 

AT  LEFT:  a  masterpiece  among  desserts,  and  just  as  deli- 
cious as  it  looks.  The  recipe  is  on  page  65.  To  give  any 
meal  distinction,  serve  one  of  the  excellent  desserts  shown 
in  this  section. 


APRICOT  MANHATTAN  MOUSSE 

(Serves  8) 

2Y2    cups   apricots,   sieved  3      tablespoons  cold  water 

6      tablespoons    lemon    juice  IV^    cups    whipping    cream 

Y2    cup   sugar  54    cup   confectioners'   sugar 

3      teaspoons  gelatin    1  II2    teaspoons   vanilla 

Add  lemon  juice  and  sugar  to  apricots,  stir  until  dissolved.  Soak  l^/^ 
teaspoons  gelatin  in  1^4  tablespoons  water,  dissolve  over  hot  water. 
Add  to  apricot  mixture.  Pour  into  two  refrigerator  trays,  place  in 
refrigerator.  Whip  cream  until  it  holds  shape,  add  sugar  and  vanilla. 
Soak  remaining  gelatin  in  remaining  water,  dissolve  over  hot  water. 
Cool,  add  to  cream.  Spread  whipped  cream  mixture  over  apricot 
mixture.     Freeze. 

BAKED  PEACH  PUDDING 

(Serves  6  to  8) 

2  cups   milk,   scalded  14  teaspoon    nutmeg 

2  cups  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs      '4  teaspoon   salt 

%  cup    sugar  2  cups    fresh   peaches,   sliced 

2  eggs,   beaten  2  tablespoons   butter 

Pour  hot  milk  over  bread  crumbs,  cool.  Add  sugar,  eggs,  nutmeg, 
and  salt :  mix.  Fold  in  peaches.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish, 
dot  with  butter.     Bake  until  peaches  are  tender. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  FLUFF 

(Serves  8  to  10) 

3  tablespoons    butter,    melted  3      eggs,    slightly   beaten 

1  cup  brown   sugar  ^    teaspoon   salt 

4  cups   milk,   scalded  1      teaspoon   vanilla 

2  cups    soft   bread    crumbs  1      cup   marshmallows 

Combine  butter  and  sugar.  Add  milk,  stir  until  blended.  Add 
bread  crumbs,  cool.  Combine  eggs,  salt,  and  vanilla,  stir  into  first 
mixture.  Arrange  marshmallows  in  bottom  of  buttered  casserole, 
cover  with  pudding.  Set  in  hot  water.  Bake,  uncovered,  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  (350°  F.)  1  hour. 


61 


BLACKBERRY  ROUNDS  WITH  ICE  CREAM 

(Serves  6) 

2  cups  flour  ^4    cup  buller 

Yi  teaspoon  baking  powder  1  '4    cups  blackberries 

4  to   6   tablespoons  milk  1      tablespoon  butter 

4  to   6   tablespoons  sugar  Vanilla  ice  cream 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  the  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Cut  in  the  %  cup 
of  butter  with  two  knives  or  rub  in  with  the  fingertips.  Add  the 
milk  slowly,  tossing  the  mixture  together  lightly  and  use  only  enough 
milk  to  hold  the  ingredients  together.  Roll  out  on  a  floured  board 
and  cut  into  12  4-inch  rounds.  Put  6  rounds  on  a  baking  sheet  and 
place  the  berries  on  the  center  of  each.  Sprinkle  with  the  sugar 
and  dot  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Moisten  the  edges  with  cold 
water  and  top  with  the  remaining  rounds.  Press  the  edges  together 
with  a  fork  and  cut  a  few  slits  in  the  top  to  permit  steam  to  escape. 
Brush  with  milk  or  cream  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450°  F. ) 
for  12  to  l."!  minutes.     Serve  warm  with  ice  cream. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  CREAM  PUFFS 

(20  cream  puffs ) 

Vi    cup   buller  V^    teaspoon    salt 

1      cup   boiling  ualer  4      eggs 

1      cup   flour 

Add  butter  to  water,  heat  until  butter  melts.  Add  flour  and  salt. 
Cook,  stirring  vigorously  until  mixture  leaves  side  of  pan.  Remove 
from  fire,  cool  1  minute.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each 
addition.  Drop  Ijy  heaping  teaspoonfuls  2  inches  apart  on  buttered 
baking  sheet.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (450°  F.)  10  minutes,  reduce  heat 
to  400°  F.  for  25  minutes.     Cool,  split,  fill. 

Filling 
1      cup   sugar  3     eggs 

V2    eup    Hour  11,4    teaspoons   vanilla 

ig    teaspoon    salt  1      cup  cream,   wbipped 

3  cups    milk,    scalded  ' 

Combine   dry   ingredients   in   top   of   double  boiler.     Add   hot   milk 

gradually,  stirring  constantly.     Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 

Add   egg.     Cook    3    minutes.     Cool.     Add   vanilla    and   cream.     Top 

with  sauce. 

Butterscotch  Sauce 
1      cup    brown    sugar  2      tablespoons    wliite    corn    syrup 

14    cup    rich    milk  3      tablespoons    butter 

Combine  all  ingredients.     Stir  until  boiling.     Simmer  for  3  minutes. 


62 


BUTTKUSCDTCH   GKAIIAIM   CKACkKK   PUDDINC; 

(Serves  6) 

''3    <''■■>    |><'!>i>>it    butter  1    cup    ^riiliuiu    t-ru(-ker»,    crushed 

HIeiiil  poaiiiit  Ifutter  and  ^niluiin  crackors.  Liiu-  j)an  (4x8  inchesj, 
pressing  firmly.     Chill. 

Filling 

1  cup   brown    suisur  M    i""I'   butler 

54    •'"P    flour  \i  tenspocin    vanilla 

^    teaspoon   ^<alt  1  eup    whipping    cream 

2  cups   milk,    scalded  14  cup   confectioners'    sugar 
2      egg  yolks,   beaten 

Mix  dry  ingredients  thoroughly,  add  gradually  to  milk.  Cook  in 
douhle  boiler  until  thick.  Add  slowly  to  egg  yolks,  return  to  dou- 
ble boiler,  cook  3  minutes.  Add  butter  and  vanilla,  cool.  Pour 
into  crust.  Chill.  Whip  cream,  add  confectioners'  sugar.  Spread  on 
custard  before  8er\'ing. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM 

(6  quarts) 

2      cups   sugar  2      cups    sugar,    caramelized 

V^    teaspoon    salt  3      teaspoons  vanilla 

2      tablespoons    flour  1      quart    cream 

4      cups   milk,   scalded  2      quarts   milk 
2      eggs,    well    beaten 

Combine  sugar,  salt,  and  flour,  add  to  milk,  cook  20  miiuites.  Add 
eggs,  cook  3  minutes  over  hot  water.  Add  caramelized  sugar,  stir 
vigorously  until  sugar  is  melted  into  custard.  Cool.  Add  vanilla, 
cream,  and  milk.     Freeze  in  ice  cream  freezer. 

CARAMELLED  APPLES 

8      apples  1      cup    brown    sugar 

16   marshmallows  14    <^iip   ""*    meats.    almond> 

1      cup    butter  preferred 

Arrange  two  layers  of  apples,  cut  into  eighths,  marshmallows  cut  into 
thirds,  butter  cut  into  pieces,  brown  sugar,  and  nut  meats  in  a  but- 
tered baking  dish.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.),  basting  occa- 
sionally. Cool.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  AJso  delicious  seized 
with  pork,  turkey,  or  chicken. 

CHEESE  CUSTARD 

(Serves  4) 

1      cup   Natural   American  2   egg   volks.    slightly    beaten 

Cheese,    grated   or   cubed  SaJl 

>/2    cup    cream  Paprika 

Combine  cheese  and  cream  in  double  boiler,  heat  slowly,  stirring 
imtil  smooth.  Pour  over  egg  yolks,  add  seasonings.  Bake  in  custard 
cups,  set  in  hot  water,  in  a  moderate  oven  (325°  to  350  F.  1  until 
firm.     Serve  with  jelly  or  preserves. 


63 


(jhocaiate  lev  i>i>.v  Cakt   —  ttee  recipti  ua  lUis  puti*t. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE   BOX  CAKE 

36   coconut    macaroons  2      squares    chocolate 


'4  cup  milk 
5  egg  yolks 
\'2    «^"P    sugar 


1      cup    confectioners"    sugar 
?4    cup    butter,    softened 
5      egg   whites 


Roll  macaroons  fine  with  rolling  pin.  Line  a  spring  form  pan  with 
a  portion  of  the  crnmhs.  Melt  chocolate  in  doiihle  hoiler,  combine 
egg  yolks,  milk,  and  sugar  and  add  to  the  chocolate,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  mixture  thickens.  Cool.  Add  powdered  sugar  and  but- 
ter, combine  with  custard.  Add  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  itito 
crumb  lined  pan.  Cover  top  with  remaining  crumbs.  Refrigerate 
for  24  hours.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM 

(Serves  12) 
18   niarslimallows  IV^    cups   cream,   whipped 

1      cup   milk  %    teaspoon   vanilla 

1      square   chocolate,   grated 

Combine  marshmallows  and  milk,  melt  over  low  fire.  Cool.  Add 
remaining  ingredients,  mix.  Pour  into  two  refrigerator  trays.  Freeze, 
stirring  two  or  three  times. 


6i 


CHOCOLATE  ICE  CREAM  IN  WAFER  CUPS 

(8  cups) 

3  tublcspuon.s  butter  6      tablt-Npouns  cunfeclioners' 
^   cup  Hour  »uK*>r 

'•i       tablespoons  milk  Few  grains  salt 

(]lio4-olate  ire  ereaiii  f4    teaspoon  vanillu 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually  and  cream  thoroughly. 
Mix  the  flour  and  salt  and  add  to  the  first  mixture  alternately  with 
the  milk.  Add  the  vanilla.  Drop  by  spoonfuls,  several  inches  apart, 
on  l)Uttcred  cookie  sheets  and  spread  verv  thin,  making  8  rounds 
about  5  inches  in  diameter.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (325°  F.)  for 
about  12  to  15  minutes  or  until  they  are  very  delicately  browned. 
Place  the  pans  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  apart  so  that  they  will 
not  be  done  at  the  same  time.  Remove  the  rounds,  one  at  a  time, 
with  a  wide  spatula  and  shape  over  an  inverted  glass  or  custard  cup. 
Cover  with  a  cloth  before  shaping  to  keep  from  burning  the  hands. 
Work  quickly  because  the  cups  must  be  shaped  while  warm.  If  they 
become  too  crisp,  return  to  the  oven  to  soften.  Fill  with  the  ice 
cream.  These  cups  are  fragile  but  delicious.  Care  should  be  taken 
when  filling  with  the  ice  cream. 

CHOCOLATE  MINT  ICE  CREAM 

(2  quarts) 

4  cups    milk  3      egg   yolks,   slightly   beaten 

1  tablespoon  gelatin  3      egg   whites,   stiffly   beaten 

2  squares   chocolate  2      cups    cream,   whipped 
1      tablespoon    flour  1      tablespoon    vanilla 

1 1/2    cups   sugar  1      teaspoon  mint  extract 
Few    grains    salt 

Scald  milk  with  gelatin  and  chocolate.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  and  salt,  add 
to  milk  mixture,  stirring  frequently  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add 
part  of  hot  mixture  to  egg  yolks,  return  to  hot  mixture,  cook  1  min- 
ute. Chill  until  thickened,  beat  until  light.  Add  egg  whites,  cream, 
vanilla,  and  mint  extracts.  Pour  into  refrigerator  tray,  freeze  about 
%   hour.     Beat  until  smooth. 

CHOCOLATE  PEPPERMINT  PUDDING 

See  full  color  illustration  on  page  60 

(Serves  16  to  20) 
Yz    pound    peppermint    stick    candy        18   lady  fingers,  separated 
1      cup    whipping  cream  1      cup  whipping  cream 

1  tablespoon    gelatin  14    pound    peppermint    stick   candy, 

2  tablespoons    cold    water  crushed 

1      cup    cream,    whipped  M    cup    chocolate    shot 

Break  candy  into  bits,  combine  with  1  cup  cream,  place  in  double 
boiler,  cover,  heat  until  the  candy  melts  (15  to  20  minutes).  Sprinkle 
gelatin  over  water,  let  stand  5  minutes,  add  to  hot  cream,  stir  until 
dissolved,  cool.  Add  1  cup  cream,  whipped.  Line  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  mold  (8  inches)  with  lady  fingers  (chocolate,  if  obtainable),  fill 
with  cream  mixture.  Cover,  chill  8  to  10  hours.  Unmold  upon  a 
platter,  garnish  with  whipped  cream.  Top  with  a  w^reath  of  crushed 
peppermint  candy  with  chocolate  shot  in  the  center. 


65 


CHRISTMAS  PUDDING 

(Serves  4) 


2  cups    graham    flour 

Y2  teaspoon   soda 

Y2  teaspoon  ginjier 

1  teaspoon   cinnanuin 

Yi  teaspoon  salt 


1  cup   raisins 

Y2  <■"?    n"t    meals,   chopped 

1  egg,    well    beaten 

1  cup   milk 

1  cup  molasses 


egg,   well   beaten 
tablespoon   butter 


Tlioroiighlv  hletul  the  first  5  ingredients.  Add  raisins  and  nut  meats. 
Add  combined  liquid  ingredients,  heat  until  smooth.  Place  mixture 
in   a   quart   mold.     Steam   2   hours.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

Sauce 

1  cup   sugar  1 
'^    cup   boiling   water  1 

Combine  sugar  and  water  and  cook  to  tbe  consistency  of  syrup 
(232°   F.).     Pour  syrup  over  egg,  add  butter,  mix  thoroughly. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  ICE  CREAM 

2  egg   yolks,   beaten  1      cup  cottage  cheese,  sieved 

1  cup   sugar  2      cups   rich   milk 

2  cups   milk,   scalded  Y2    teaspoon   vanilla 

Combine  egg  yolks,  sugar,  and  milk.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  con- 
sistencv  of  custard.  Cool  immediately  over  cold  water.  Put  cottage 
cheese  though  sieve.  Combine  cottage  cheese  and  milk,  add  vanilla. 
Combine  two  mixtures.     Freeze  in  ice  cream  freezer. 


listinas  I' 


4 


COCONUT  S«  H'FFLK 

2  c-iip.s    milk  1/3   flip    »iiKiir 

V3  •■lip    Kriiiiiilalfd    tapioca  14    teaspoon    sail 

2  tablespoons    liiillt-r  1^'^    cups    roroiiiil.    sliredileil 

S  ogg    yolks,    well    healen  3      ege    whites 

1  teaspoon    vanilla 

Scald  milk  in  doulilc  l)()ilci-.  aiid  lapiuca,  cook  until  clear,  add  butter. 
Combine  ejig  yolk.s.  vanilla.  siif;ar,  salt,  and  %  cup  coconut,  add 
milk  mixture.  Mix  well.  Fold  in  .stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Pour 
into  buttered  baking  dish,  place  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a 
modcralc  oven  ( l^.'jO  F.  (  3(1  minutes.  Sprinkle  willi  remaining  coco- 
imt.  bake  another  20  to  30  minutes  or  until  souffle  is  firm. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  CUSTARD 

(Serves  8  to  101 

t^    eiip  bread  eriinibs.  rolled  and  '1    leaspuun    salt 

Silled  2      cups    cottage    cheese 

1       cup    sugar  3       tablespoons    flour 

14    cup   butter,    iiielte^  l^    cup   milk 

■i      egg    yolks  1^    cup   whipping    cream 

Juice   of    1    lemon  2      egg  whites 

Rind  of   1   lemon,   grated  i^   cup   nut    meats,    chopped 
■4    teaspoon    mace 

Coudjine  bread  crumbs,  ^  cup  sugar,  and  imtter:  line  ])uttered  bak- 
ing dish.  Beat  egg  volks  with  remaining  sugar,  add  lemon  juice  and 
rind,  mace,  and  salt,  then  cottage  cheese  and  flour  blended  with  milk. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  and  sieve.  Add  whipped  cream  and  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Mix  lightly  and  pour  into  crumb  lined  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  nut  meats.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (.■}25  '  to  350  F. )  1  hour.  Serv^e  cold  «ltb  whipped 
<ream  or  crushed  strawberries. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  PUDDING 

(Serves  8  to  10) 
.S      cups   cottage  cheese,  sieved  4      eggs,    slightly    beaten 

1  cup  rich   milk  or  cream  1      teaspoon    salt 

1'2    cup   sugar  1      teaspoon   vanilla 

Combine  cheese  and  milk.  Add  sugar  gradually  to  eggs,  stirring 
constantly.  Combine  mixture,  add  salt  and  vanilla,  stir  well.  Pour 
into  buttered  pan  or  custard  cups,  place  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven    (350'   F.)    until  firm,  about  1  hour. 

DOWN  EAST  RICE  PUDDING 

(Serves  8  to  10) 
^    cup    rice  1    tablespoon    butler 

2  cups    milk  Salt 

1/2   cup    molasses  Raisins,   dates   or    figs    (optional) 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  order.  Bake  in  buttered  baking  dish  in 
moderate  oven  (350^  F. )  2  hours.  As  it  thickens,  add  more  milk. 
Serve  hot  with  cream. 


67 


Eggiutg  Ice  Cream  —  .<«•«'  recipe  below. 


2 
4 
2 
2 


CUSTARD   BREAD  PUDDING 

(Serves  8) 

cups   soft   bread   criinibs  Sail 

cups   milk,   scalded  Vanilla 

eggs  ^4    cup    butler,    scalded 

egg    yolks  14    <^"P   strawberry   jam 
Yi   cup    sugar 

Add  bread  crumbs  to  milk.  Beat  eggs  and  egg  yolks  together  slight- 
ly, add  sugar  and  salt.  Add  bread  crumb  mixture,  vanilla,  and  but- 
ter; mix  well.  Pour  into  eight  buttered  individual  custard  cups,  set 
in  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350°  F.)  45  to  50  min- 
utes. Remove  from  oven,  spread  each  with  jam  or  jelly.  Top 
with  meringue.  Meringue 

2    egg   whites  4   tablespoons   sugar 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar,  beat  until  glossy.     Spread  over 
pudding.      Return   to   a    moderately   slow   oven 
minutes.  EGGNOG  ICE   CREAM 

(1   quart) 


(300°    F.I    20  to  25 


2      cups    whipping    cream 
1      teaspoon    nutmeg 
1 Y2    teaspoons    flavoring 


2  cups   rich    milk 

%  cup    sugar 

1/4  teaspoon    salt 

6  egg   yolks 

Combine  first  4  ingredients,  cook  until  consistency  of  soft  custard. 
Cool.  Whip  cream  almost  stiff,  fold  into  custard,  add  nutmeg  and 
flavoring.  Pour  into  refrigerator  tray.  Freeze  until  almost  firm. 
Pour  into  chilled  bowl.  Beat  with  rotary  or  electric  beater  until 
well  blended.     Return  to  tray  and  freeze  until  firm. 


68 


FILLED  DKSSEKT  COFFEE  CAKE 

(Serves  12) 
Batter 

3  rups    fluur  ?4  C"P   sugar 

t  loa>|><>on!<    baking    powder  ^  cup   butter 

1  teuspoun    suit  2  eggs 

M  teaspoon    niuce    or    nutmeg  1  cup   milk 

'4  teaspoon    cinnamon 

Sift  dry  iiifiredients  toi;ether.  Work  or  cut  in  liutter.  Combine  eggs 
and  milk  and  ad(k  mix  lightly.  Put  in  a  buttered  round  cake  j)an 
and  cover  witli  the  following  top  mixture: 

Top  Mixture 

V^    teaspoon    salt 

M    cup    almonds,    finely    cut 

1      cup    whipping    cream 


V4  eup   butter 

?4  cup   brown    sugar 

3  tablespoons    flour 

'2  teaspoon    cinnamon 


Cream  butter  and  brown  sugar,  add  cinnamon,  salt,  and  flour;  mix 
well.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  coffee  cake.  Scatter  the  almonds 
over  this. 

Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375'  to  400°  F.I  about  45  minutes. 
When  cool,  split  cake  in  half  and  spread  w4th  the  whipped  cream 
(which  has  been  whipped,  sweetened,  and  flavored).  Cover  with 
the  upper  half.  Serve  with  more  whipped  cream,  cutting  sections 
like  pie. 


Fnirll    It.^^rrl    (   ,,fj,.,.    (  „!,, 


rrrlpp   obnr* 


HONEY  APPLE  CRISP 

4  Clips  sliced  apples  V^    cup  all-purpose  flour 
14    cup  sugar  }^    cup  brown  sugar 

1      tablespoon  lemon  juice  ?4    teaspoon  salt 

14    cup  honey  ^4    cup  walnuts  (if  desired) 

14    <""P  butler 

Spread  sliced  aj)|)les  in  a  sliallow  baking  dish.  spiinkJe  with  sugar 
and  lemon  jiiiee.  and  pour  honev  over  all.  In  a  howl,  mix  flour, 
blown  sugar,  and  salt,  and  work  in  the  butter  as  for  biscuits,  making 
a  ciaiinbly  mixture.  Sj)read  these  crumbs  evenly  over  the  apples  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  375°  F.  for  30  to  40  minutes,  or  until 
apples  are  tender  and  crust  crisply  browned.  Serve  warm,  with  plain 
cream,  or  whipped  cream  Topped  with  a  dash  of  powdered  cinnamon. 

HONEY  CUSTARD 

(Serves  8  to  10) 

5  eggs,  slightly  beaten  '  s  teaspoon  cinnunioii 
^  cup  honey  4  ('ups  milk,  scalded 
M    teaspoon    salt 

Combine  first  4  ingredients.  Slowly  add  hot  milk,  stirring  rapidly. 
Bake  in  custard  cups  or  large  pan,  set  in  water,  in  a  tnoderate  oven 
(350    F.)   1  hour. 

ICE  CREAM  NUT  ROLL 

Form  portions  of  your  favorite  ice  cream  into  round  balls  and  roll 
them  in  chopped  nuts.  Place  in  shallow  serving  dishes  and  pour 
a  fruit  or  caramel  sauce  into  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 

ICE  CREAM  SUNDAE  CAKE 

(Serves  8) 

I.       butter  or  sponge  cake,  unl'rosted       l^o    tpiurts  chocolate  or  strawberry 

ice  cream 

Cut  cake  in  slices  I/2  iucli  thick.  Line  2  refrigerator  trays  with 
wax  paper,  letting  it  extend  over  the  sides  about  3  inches.  Place 
layer  of  cake  in  bottom  of  tray,  then  a  layer  of  ice  cream,  and  on 
top  another  layer  of  cake.  Fold  wax  paper  over  the  top  and  place  in 
refrigerator  for  at  least  an  hour.  To  serve,  lift  dessert  out  of  tray 
with  wax  paper;  slice.     Serve  with  a  chocolate  or  fruit  sauce. 

LEMON  PUDDING 

(Serves  6  to  8 1 
3       lablespoi»ns    Hour  1      cup    milk 

•i       tablespoons    holler  Juice    of     I    lemon 

1  cup    sugar  Kind    of    1    lemon,    grated 

2  egg   yolks,  beaten  2      egg    whiles 

Combine  flour,  butter,  and  %  cup  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks,  milk,  lemon 
juice  and  rind.  Beat  well.  Add  remaining  sugar  to  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites,  fold  into  first  mixture.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish, 
place  in  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F.I  1 
hour.  Chill.  Toj)  with  wbipjied  cream.  The  top  is  like  cake,  the 
under  portion  a  delicious  lemon  jellv. 


70 


LEiMON  CKEA1\1   KICK   PUDDINC 

'2    rup    rirv  IJ/^    tublesp<>(>ll^    Iciiiiiii    jiiiie 

3      flips    milk  -^j    teaspoon   suit 

2      e^$£    >«»lks.    bciiton  2      tublespottii^  i-iinriTlitiners*   siitfar 

Va    nip   MiuiT  *4    IcasptHui    li'iiioii    cxinu'l 

Rind    of    I    Ifiiutn.    united  2      egg   >\liites 

Cook  rice  in  milk  in  iloiililr  toiler  until  soil.  \(lil  f<i<^  yolks,  siifiar. 
leiiKiii  rind  and  juice,  and  sail,  ("iiok  until  niixtuic  thickens.  Pour 
into  liuttcrcd  hakini;  disli.  Fold  powdered  sugar  and  lemon  extract 
>;radiially  into  stiffly  heaten  c>;fi  whites,  pile  on  top  of  j>uddin<r.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  1 350  F.I  until  lightly  hrowned.  Serve  with 
cream  or  a  fruit  sauce.  As  a  \ariation  the  whites  may  he  folded  into 
the  hot  custard  and  liakcd  as  a  souffle. 

LIBERTY  PLUM  PUDDING 

1      pound   seedless    raisins  1      teaspoon   riiiiuiiiKni 

1      pound   currants  2      teaspoons   sail 

1  cup    mixed    nut    meats  2I2    cups    fine,    dry    bread    crumbs 
I'i    cups  suet.    Iinel>    chopped  6      eggs,   well   beaten 

2^2    cups   flour  1      cup   cottage  cheese 

2  teaspoons   soda  2      cups   light    molasses 
I       teaspoon    cloves                           ,  1      cup    buttermilk 

1      lei»".pooii   allspice  1      cup  cream 

1  t-aspooii   nulnieg  14    cup   fruit   juice 

Scald  fruit,  drain  and  dr).  Vdd  nut  meats  and  suet,  dredge  with  1 
eup  flour.  Sift  dry  ingredients  three  times,  add  crumbs  and  mix. 
Blend  egg  and  cottage  cheese  thoroughly,  add  remaining  ingredi- 
ents, mix  well,  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Mix  lightly.  Fold  in  fruit, 
nuts,  and  suet,  mixing  until  fruit  is  well  distributed.  Pour  into  two 
buttered  molds  (3  pounds).  Cover  and  steam  for  3  hours.  Cool 
puddings,  wrap  in  heavy  waxed  paper,  store  in  cool,  dry  place.  Re- 
steam,  serve  with  hot  hard  sauce. 

Hard   Sauce 

2\2    cups    confectioners"    sugar  1    teaspoon    vanilla 

2  cups   butter,    softened 

Combine   all   ingredients,   blend    well.     Chill   until    readv    for   use. 

MAKE-YOUR-OWN-SUNDAE  TRAY 

Fill  a  large  bowl  with  one  or  two  quarts  of  vanilla  ice  cream.  Place 
it  in  the  center  of  a  tray  and  arrange  several  small  bowls  of  toppings 
around  it.  Toj)piiigs  may  include  crushed  sweetened  fruit,  butter- 
scotch or  caramel  sauce,  syrup  or  honey,  chopped  nuts,  or  mara- 
schino cherries. 


OLD-FASHIONED  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 


2  cups  flour 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

^2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar 


Ys   eup  shortening 

94    eup  milk 

Butter 

Strawberries  or  other  fruit 


Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  the  shortening  with  the 
fingers  or  a  knife.  Gradually  add  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough, 
mixing  with  a  knife.  Toss  the  dough  on  to  a  floured  board  and  tap 
and  roll  to  I/2  inch  thickness.  Bake  in  sheets  for  a  large  shortcake 
or  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter  or  bake  in  muffin  tins  for  individual 
shortcakes.  Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  (450''  to  460^  F. )  12  to  15 
minutes.  When  done,  split  into  two  parts,  butter  and  put  crushed 
sweetened  fruit  between  the  layers  and  on  top.  Serve  hot  with 
cream.  Any  fresh  berries,  peaches,  bananas,  or  stewed  fruits,  fresh 
or  dried,  mav  be  used  for  shortcake. 


2      cups    milk 

I/3   cup    sugar 

1,4    eup    cornstarch 

14    teaspoon   salt 

1      egg.    slightly   beaten 


ORANGE   PUDDING 

(Serves  6  to  8) 

^4    teaspoon    vanilla    or    almond 

flavoring 
3    or    4    oranges 


^4    eup    sugar 
Cream 


Scald  1%  cups  milk.  Comliine  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  salt,  add  ^4 
cup  milk  and  egg.  Add  hot  .niilk.  Cook  until  thick,  add  flavoring, 
cool.  Peel  oranges,  cut  into  chunks,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  allow  to 
stand  20  minutes.     Combine  oranges  with  custard.     Serve  with  cream. 


72 


ORANGE  CREAM  SHERBET 

(Serves  15) 

2      riips    <*reaiii  1  (*up    uiilniils    c>r    pecan    itieuts, 

2'o    Clips    sii^ar  <'hoppe(l    (optional) 

1      quart    milk  I  cup   orange    juice 

Vi  cup   leiiiun    juice 

Coniliiiie  creaiii.  su'iar,  and  milk.  Add  nut  meals.  Partially  freeze 
ill  ice  ireaiii  freezer.     Add  fruit  juices,  continue  frcczinu;. 

PEACH  CREAM  PUDDING 

(Serves  5) 

1      cup    milk,    scalded  Y2    teaspoon    vanilla 

V4    cup    sugar  1      cup   peaches,  drained   and  diced 

Vn    teaspoon    salt  Yi   *^"P    walnuts,   chopped 

1  Yi    teaspoons    cornstarch  Yl    cup  whipping  cream 

2  egg    yolks 

Combine  sugar,  salt,  and  cornstarch.  Add  hot  milk,  cook  until  thick. 
Add  egg  yolks  and  vanilla.  Cool.  Fold  peaches,  nut  meats,  and 
whipped   cream   into   custard, 

PEACH  SUNDAE  CAKE 

Cut  a  thin  layer  of  sponge  or  plain  butter  cake  into  3-inch  squares 
or  rounds.  Pile  a  generous  spoonful  of  fruit  ice  cream  on  top  and 
garnish    with   sliced    canned    or   sweetened   fresh    peaches, 

PEPPERMINT  ICE  CREAM 

(Serves  6) 
1    pound    peppermint    stick    candy  1    pint    whipping   cream 

1  pint    milk 

Soak  candv  in  milk  over  night.  Whip  cream,  combine  with  candy  and 
milk.     Pour  into  refrigerator  trav.     Freeze, 

PEPPERMINT  TAPIOCA  CREAM 

(Serves  6) 

2  cups   milk,  scalded  ^4    teaspoon   salt 

3  tablespoons    granulated    tapioca       2      egg   yolks 
Y2    cup   peppermint   candy,  crushed      2      egg   whites 

Add  tapioca  to  hot  milk,  cook  until  clear.  Add  candy  and  salt  to 
egg  yolks,  gradually  stir  in  hot  tapioca  and  milk.  Return  to  double 
boiler  and  cook  until  slightly  thickened.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.     Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  chocolate  sauce. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA  CREAM 

(Serves  6) 

2  cups   milk,   scalded  Y3  cup    water 

3  tablespoons    tapioca  2      egg   whites 

2      egg   yolks,   beaten  1      tablespoon   lemon    juice 

I4    teaspoon   salt  ?4    cup   pineapple,   cubed 
1      cup    sugar 

Add  tapioca  to  milk,  cook  until  tapioca  is  transparent.  Add  egg 
yolk  and  salt.  Allow  to  stand  until  cool.  Cook  sugar  and  water 
until  it  threads.  Pour  over  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat  stead- 
ily, add  lemon  juice,  beat  again,  add  pineapple.  Combine  half  of 
this  mixture  with  tapioca  custard.  Pour  into  bowl,  cover  top  with 
remaining  fruit  meringue.     Serve  very  cold. 


73 


PRINCESS  CUSTARD 

2  large   bunanas.   diced  1 1'o    cups   milk 

1 1/2    leaspoons   orange  rind,   grated       2      «-gg   yolks,   slightly   beaten 
6      tablespoons    orange   juice  2      egg  whites 

3  tablespoons    sugar  2      tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons    cornstarch  3      graham    crackers,    finely 
I4    teaspoon   salt  crushed    (optional) 

Combine  liaiiaiias,  orange  rind,  and  orange  juice.  In  a  double  boiler 
combine  sugar,  cornstarcb,  and  salt.  Add  milk  gradually,  cook  until 
it  tbickens.  Slowly  stir  into  egg  yolks.  Cook  until  thick,  about  2  to 
3  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  fold  in  fruit  mixture.  Chill.  Gradu- 
ally add  sugar  to  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites,  fold  into  custard.  Put  into 
sherbet  glasses,  sprinkle  tops  with  cracker  crumbs. 

PRUNE  CUSTARD 

(Serves  81 

4  eggs,    slightly    beaten  2      cups   milk,   scalded 

^4    *'i>P   sugar  1      cup  cooked  prunes,  chopped 

^    teaspoon    salt 

Combine  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt.  Add  milk,  mix  well.  Add  prunes, 
sweetened  to  taste.  Pour  into  buttered  molds.  Set  in  pan  of  warm 
water.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350"  F.)   45  to  55  minutes. 

PRUNELLA  PUDDING 

(Serves  6  to  8) 
1      cup   whipping   cream  1      tablespoon    vanilla    extract 

1      cup   milk  12   slices   soft   bread 

1  cup  sugar  IV^   cups  cooked  prunes,  pitted 

3  tablespoons    cornstarch  and    chopped 

J/^   cup  milk,  cold  Y2    <""?    shredded    coconut,    toasted 

M  cup  butter 
Combine  cream,  milk,  and  %  cup  sugar  in  saucepan  and  bring  to 
boiling  point.  Moisten  cornstarch  with  cold  milk,  stir  into  hot  mix- 
ture. Cook  until  thickened.  Add  butter  and  vanilla.  Cool  until 
lukewarm.  Remove  crusts  from  bread,  cube.  Toast  under  broiler 
flame.  Combine  prunes  wdth  bread  cubes  and  remaining  sugar. 
Arrange  half  in  bottom  of  large  pudding  dish.  Sj)read  half  of  the 
custard  over  prune  mixture.  Add  remaining  prune  mixture.  Top 
with  custard,  sprinkle  with  toasted  coconut.     Chill  8  to   10  hours. 

PUMPKIN  ICE  CREAM 

(Serves  8) 
1^8    cups    milk,    scalded  2      teaspoons    gelatin 

11^    cups   sugar  Ys  *^"P  cold  water 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  4      egg  yolks,  beaten 

1      teaspoon   cinnamon  2      tablespoons   preserved   orange 

14    teaspoon    nulmeg  peel,   or    1    tablespoon   orange 

y2    teaspoon  salt  rind,    grated 

lYz    cups   canned   pumpkin  1      '"P    whipping   cream 

Add  combined  sugar,  cornstarch,  spices,  salt.  an<l  pumpkin  to  hot 
milk.  Cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  add  gelatin  dissolved  in 
water,  stir  well,  add  egg  yolks  and  orange  peel.  l)lend  well.  Cool. 
Whip  cream,  fold  into  mixture.  Pour  into  one  large  or  two  small 
refrigerator  trays.     Freeze,  stirring  once  or  twice. 


74 


KICK   liAVARIAN 

.'5  nips    milk  Vis    •'"P    sugar 

\.4  <-ii|>    lonioii    riiiil.    uraird  2       tiihU-Mpoons    gelalin 

V^  cup  riro,  tiii<'0<>ke<l  '  2    <"iip    c-old    water 

14  leaspixm   salt  1      t-iip    whippinis   cream 

1  teaspoon    flavoring  Strawberries    or    other    fruit 

Put  milk  and  Iciiioii  rind  in  douldc  lioilor.  When  hot  add  rire  and 
sah,  stirriiii;.  Cook  until  rice  i?;  tender.  Add  flavoring,  sugar,  and 
gelatin  soaked  in  water,  mix  carefully.  Whip  cream,  fold  into  rice 
mixture  as  it  hegins  to  set.     Pour  into  mold,  chill.     Serve  with  fruit. 

SOUTHERN  ICE  CREAM  SUNDAE 

(Serves  8) 

36   vanilla  caramels  1      cup  pecans 

^    cup  cream  1  l^y    quarts  vanilla  ice  ceani 

Place  caramels  and  cream  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Place  over  hot 
water  until  caramels  melt.  Add  [lecans.  Serve  ice  cream  and  pour 
sauce  over  top. 

SPICED  CRUMB  PUDDING 
(Serves  61 
1      cup   dry   bread   crumbs  Yz    •^"P    flour 

1      cup  sour  milk  1      teaspoon    soda 

14    cup  butter  54    teaspoon    cinnamon 

1  cup   brown    sugar  V4    teaspoon    cloves 

2  tablespoons    molasses  V4    ci'P    raisins 

Soak  crumbs  in  milk  half  an  hour.  Blend  liutter  and  sugar,  add 
molasses.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients,  then  raisins.  Pour  into  but- 
tered baking  dish.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350°  F. )   45  minutes. 

SURPRISE  SOUR  CREAM  PUDDING 

(Serves  12) 

2  tablespoons  butter  2      teaspoons   baking   powder 
V^    cup    sugar  V^    teaspoon   salt 

1      teaspoon    vanilla  1      cup    milk 

1      egg,    beaten  2      cups    brown    sugar 

1  Yz    cups   flour  2      cups   sour   cream 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  vanilla  and  egg.  Add  sifted  dry  in- 
gredients alternately  with  milk.  Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  deep 
buttered  pan.  Sprinkle  top  with  brown  sugar  and  pour  sour  cream 
over.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (375"  F.)  30  to  40  minutes.  Batter 
rises  to  top,  cream  and  sugar  form  a  caramel  sauce.  Turn  upside 
down.     Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

(Serves  8) 
6      boiled   or   baked   sweet   potatoes.      Rind    of    1    lemon,    grated 

mashed  4      egg    yolks 

Vi    <^"P  butter  1/2    teaspoon    nutmeg 

3  cups    milk  11/^    cups   sugar 

Vi    teaspoon    cinnamon  1.^    teaspoon    allspice 

Combine  all  ingredients,  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  buttered  covered 
casserole  in  a  moderately  slo«  oven  (325  ~  F. )  45  minutes.  Remove 
cover  and   bake   15   minutes. 


75 


Fowl   •   Fish 

Eggs 


^•"/^ 


FOWL  DINNER 

AT  LEFT:  roast  stuffed  bird  to  ptoase  the  most  critical 
palate.  Wild  game  birds  and  domestic  fowls  are  abundant 
in  North  Carolina  and  are  always  a  welcomed  delicacy  when 
they   appear  on  the   table. 


BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

1      chicken — frver  or  boiler  Chicken  brulh 

14    cup  or  ^^  stick  butter  Sah  to  taste 

}4    cup  vinegar  ^2    pod  red  pepper 

3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup 

Steam  whole  chicken  until  done.  Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  vinegar, 
and  tomato  catsup.  Add  this  sauce  to  enough  chicken  broth  (slightly 
thickened  with  flour  I  to  prevent  chicken  from  sticking.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  chicken  and  place  in  oven,  basting 
several  times  while  browning. 

Note:  If  desired,  approximately  1  tal)lespoon  of  vinegar  may  be 
added  to  the  water  used  for  steaming  chicken. 

BRAISED  LIVER 

(Serves  6) 

1  pound   liver,   sliced  2    onions,    sliced 
Flour  Salt 

2  tablespoons    butter  Pepper 
2      cups  sweet  or  sour  cream 

Dip  liver  in  boiling  water,  roll  in  flour.  Fry  slowly  in  butter  until 
meat  is  brown.  Pour  cream  over  liver.  Add  onions,  salt,  and  pep- 
per; simmer  30  to  40  minutes,  or  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350'  F. ) 
30  to  40  minutes. 

BUTTERMILK   HAM   SOUFFLE 

(Serves  6) 

4  tablespoons  butter  4      egg    yolks,    slightly    beaten 

5  tablespoons  flour  2      cups    cooked    hum.    ground 
1^4    cups    buttermilk  4      egg    whites 

Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  buttermilk.  Add  gradually 
to  egg  yolks.  Cool  slightly.  Fold  in  ham  and  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Add  salt  if  necessarv.  Pour  into  Ijuttered  baking  dish. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350'  F.I   50  minutes. 


77 


CASSEROLE  OF  SEA  FOOD 

(Serves  8  to  10) 


3 

hard-cooked   eggs,    slicf 

1 

cup   tuna    fish 

Vi 

cup    shrimp 

1 

cup   crabnical 

1 

cup   mushrooms 

1 

cup    Natural    American 
Cheese,    diced 

1 

teaspoon    salt 

■1      tablespoons   butter 
4      tablespoons    flour 

1  cup   dry   bread   crumbs 
M    cup    butter,    melted 
Salt 

Pepper 

2  cups    milk 


Arrange  eggs  in  bottom  of  buttered  casserole.  Cover  with  tuna  fish, 
shrimp,  and  crabmeat.  Add  mushrooms,  cheese,  and  sah.  Make 
white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  sah,  pepper,  and  milk.  Pour  over  con- 
tents of  casserole.  Mix  bread  crumbs  and  butter,  sprinkle  over  top. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350"  F. )   35  minutes. 

CHEESE  HAM  CASSEROLE 

2      tablespoons    butter  2      cups    macaroni,    cooked 

W-l    tablespoons   flour  ^^    teaspoon    salt 

1      cup    milk  l^a    cups   leftover    ham.   chopped 

1  cup   INatural   American  2      tablespoons    horseradish 
Cheese,    grated  2      teaspoons   prepared   mustard 

Make  white  sauce  with  first  3  ingredients.  Add  cheese,  macaroni, 
and  salt;  mix.  Pour  into  buttered  casserole.  Combine  remaining 
ingredients  and  mix,  sprinkle  over  top  of  macaroni,  pressing  into  mix- 
ture slightly.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350"   F.I    20  minutes. 

CHEESE  PUFFIT 

2  cups   ham,   ground  3      sliced    bread,    cubed 

2      tablespoons   butter  2      egg    yolks,    slightly    beaten 

2      cups   Natural    American  2      egg   whites 

Cheese,    grated 

Fry  ham  in  butter.  Combine  cheese  and  bread  with  egg  yolks.  Add 
ham.  Fold  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  into  mixture.  Pour  into  but- 
tered baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350    F. )  45  minutes. 


1 


CHEESE  SALMON  LOAF 

(Serves  6) 
pound   can    ( ?4    cups)    salmon,         Yi 

1 


flaked 


1 14    cups   Natural    American 

Cheese,    grated 
1      egg,    beaten 
Yi   cup  cream 


teaspoon    salt 

cup    bread   crumbs 
3      tablespoons    butter,    melted 
1      tablespoon  lemon  juice 
i-g    teaspoon    pepper 
Buttered    crumbs 


Combine  first  9  ingredients.  Shape  into  buttered  loaf  pan.  Sprinkle 
with  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F.)  30  minutes.  Serve 
hot  or  cold  with  celery  sauce. 

Celery  Sauce 
Combine  2  cups  well-seasoned  white  sauce  with  1  cup  chopped  celery. 


78 


^I^CKE^  stew  with  onions 

2  cliic-kens.  cut  in  pieces  for  li    cup  heavy  cream 
serving                                                          3      egg  yolks 

18   liny  young  onions  Salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

4  tablespoons   flour  Lemon  juice 

Cook  chirkciis  and  onions  in  small  quantity  of  water.  W'hen  chicken 
is  tender,  remove  to  servinj;  dish.  When  onions  are  soft,  drain  from 
stock  and  reduce  stock  to  II/2  eups.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  very 
slowly,  stock  and  cream.  Add  egg  yolks,  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon 
juice  to  taste.     Pour  sauce  over  chicken  and  onions. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE 

(8  to  10  servings) 

1 14    eups  milk  or  meat  stock  1      teaspoon  salt 

y<>    cup  soft  crumbs  3      egg  yolks — well  beaten 

(or  I4  cup  stale)  2      cups  chipped  chicken 

2      tablespoons  butter  j       ^^.^^po^n  lemon  juice  or 
2      tablespoons  flour     1  grated  rind 

Vs    teaspoon  pepper  3      egg  whites — stiffly  beaten 

14    teaspoon  paprika  Chopped  parsley,  green  red 

peppers,  or  piniiento 

Prepare  white  sauce  of  first  7  ingredients,  adding  crumbs  to  scalded 
milk.  Pour  hot  over  yolks,  add  chicken  and  lemon  juice.  Cool. 
Fold  whites  (and  remaining  seasoning  if  desired)  into  the  mixture. 
Place  in  well-greased  mold,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven    (350"   to  375"   F. )    for  35  minutes. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  AND  SALMON  LOAF 

(Serves  10 1 

Cheese  Layer 
Y2    tablespoon    gelatin  3      cups  cottage  cheese,  sieved 

2      tablespoons   cold   milk  %    teaspoon   onion,    minced 

M    cup    hot    milk  M    teaspoon   salt 

Soak  gelatin  in  cold  milk  and  dissolve  in  hot  milk.  Combine  with 
remaining  ingredients.  Chill  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Pour 
into  mold.     Refrigerate  until  firm. 

Salmon  Layer 
2      cups    red    salmon,    flaked  1      tablespoon    lemon    juice 

1      cup    salad    dressing  ¥2    tablespoon    gelatin 

y2    cup    celery,    finely    chopped  2      tablespoons   cold   water 

Combine  salmon,  salad  dressing,  celery,  and  lemon  juice.  Soak  gela- 
tin in  cold  water  for  five  minutes,  then  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Add 
to  salmon  mixture.  Cool.  Pour  over  cheese  layer.  To  serve,  uninold 
on  large  platter  and  garnish  with  watercress  and  tomato  slices. 


79 


CRABMEAT  DELIGHT 

(Serves  6  to  8) 

2      tablespoons   bulter  14    t"P   Parmesan   Cheese,   grated 

2      tablespoons    flour  14    «'"P    butler 

2      Clips   ereani,   sealded  Salt 

*4    nip    iNatiiral    Swiss  Cayenne    pepper 

Cheese,  grated  2    cups    crabmeat 

Make  white  sauce  of  first  3  ingredients.     Add  cheese,  stir  until  meked. 

Add  remaining  hutler.  lieating  liard.     Season  with  sah  and  cayenne. 

Arrange   crabmeat   in   sliallow   Jjuttered   casserole.     Pour   sauce   over 

crahineat.     Place  in  a  moderately  hot  broiler  8  to  10  minutes,  until 

a  golden  brown.         ^^^.^lISH   LAMB   CHOPS 

(Serves  5  I 
2      teaspoons    salt  4      tablespoons  flour 

1/2    teaspoon   pepper  1      teaspoon    Worcestershire    sauce 

'4    cup    melted   butter  1      cup  bread   crumbs 

5      lamb    shoulder    chops  11-2    cups    INalural    American 

2      tablespoons    butter  Cheese,  grated 

1 1 2    cups    milk 

Combine  salt,  pepper,  and  Iiiitter.  Let  chops  stand  in  this  mixture 
( marinate  I  10  to  30  minulcs.  then  broil  on  one  side  5  minutes.  Cool. 
Make  white  sauce  from  Iinlter.  milk,  flour,  and  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Spread  on  uncooked  side  of  chops.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  cheese.  Place  on  oven-proof  glass  plate  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350    F. )   1  hour. 

?ng/i»/i  Lamb  Chopx  —  nfp  recipe  above. 


ESCALLOPED  TUNA 

(Serves  6  to  8  I 


1  l;ilil<'.-|>uuii>   biilter 

1  lablespoons    flour 

2  cii|i>    milk 

'•>  teaspoon    sail 

I  4'iip    Natural    Aiiit'rii'an 

(ilieese.    grated 

^4  «-iip    sltifTecl    olht's,    sliced 


Yi    green    pepper,    minced 

1  can   tnna    li»h,    flaked    ( 1 

2  cups    sofl    bread    cubes 
■^    cup    corn  (hikes 

V^    cup    Natural    Americiiii 
Cheese,   grated 


•up) 


Make  a  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  salt.  Add 
cheese,  hlend.  Add  olives,  green  pepper,  and  tuna  fish.  Arrange 
layer  of  hread  cubes  on  bottom  of  buttered  casserole.  Pour  half  of 
tuna  fish  mixture  over  ])read.  Spread  another  laver  of  bread  cubes 
ov<'r  tuna  fish.  Cover  with  remaining  tuna  fish.  Top  with  cornflakes, 
sprinkle  with  cheese.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350    F.I  20  minutes. 


HUNTINGTON  CHICKEN 

( Serves  6  to  8  I 


Z  cups    macaroni 

^•>  tablespoon  butter 

V2  tablespoon    flour 

Vz  cup    cream,    scalded 

1  cup    cream    cheese 


3      tablespoons  piiniento,  finely  cut 

1  cup   hot   chicken   broth 

2  cups   cooked   chicken,   diced 
Salt 

Pepper 


Cook  macaroni.  Make  cream  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  cream.  Add 
cheese,  pimiento.  and  chicken  broth;  mix.  Add  chicken  and  maca- 
roni, add  seasonings.  Pour  into  buttered  casserole.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  f350'  F.I   30  to  45  minutes. 


RICE,  TUNA  FISH,  ANT)  CHEESE  CASSEROLE 

(Serves  8  to  10) 


tablespoons   butler 
tablespoons    flour 
cups    milk 
teaspoon    salt 
Vi    teaspoon    paprika 


2      cups    Natural    .4nierican 

Cheese,    grated 
2      cups   rice,   cooked 
7-ounce   can    tuna    fish 
14    cup   bread    crumbs,   buttered 


Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  salt,  paprika, 
and  cheese.  In  a  buttered  casserole  ( 2-quart  I  arrange  lay'ers  of  rice, 
tuna  fish,  and  sauce.  Cover  top  with  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  I  350     to  375     F.  I   30  minutes. 


81 


ROAST  TURKEY 

Dress,  clean,  stuff.  aii<l  truss.  Place  on  its  side  on  rack  in  dripping 
pan,  rub  entire  surface  with  salt,  and  spread  breast,  legs  and  wings 
with  Vs  cup  butter,  rubbed  until  creamy  and  mixed  with  I/4  cup 
flour.  Dredge  bottom  of  yian  with  flour.  Place  in  hot  oven  1450"  F. ) . 
When  flour  on  turkey  begins  to  brown,  reduce  heat  (350  F. ) 
and  baste  every  15  minutes  until  turkey  is  cooked  (about  3  hours  I . 
For  basting  use  1/4  t""P  butter  melted  in  1/4  cup  boiling  water  and, 
after  this  is  used,  baste  with  fat  in  pan.  Pour  water  in  jian  during 
the  cooking,  as  needed  to  prevent  flour  from  burning.  During  cook- 
ing, turn  turkey  frequently,  that  it  may  brown  evenly.  If  turkey 
is  browning  too  fast,  cover  with  buttered  paper  to  prevent  burning. 
Remove  string  and  skewers  before  serving.  Garnish  with  parsley, 
or  celery  tips,  or  curled  celery,  or  rings  and  discs  of  carrots  strung 
on  fine  wire.  (Bread  stuffing,  chestnut  stuffing,  celery  stuffing  or  any 
stuffing  desired  may  be  used.) 

Chestnut   Stuffing 
No.  1 
1      quart  chestnuts  1      tablespoon  salt 

3      tablespoons  butter  ]'2    teaspoon  pepper 

Shell  and  blanch  chestmits  and  boil  one-half  hour  in  water  enough 
to  cover  them,  then  drain.  Do  not  chop  or  mash  them.  Add  to 
them   the   butter,   salt    and    pepper. 

No.  2 

1  quart  chestnuts  2      tablespoons  cream 
I4    cup  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  tat  Onion  juice,  if  desired 

Sliell  and  blanch  the  chestnuts  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until 
tender.  While  they  are  still  hot,  rub  them  through  a  coarse  sieve  or 
colander.      Add    other    ingredients    in    order    given. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKENS,  SOUR  CREAM  SAUCE 

2      broilers,  split  1      cup  sour  cream 

Salt,  pepper  Toast 

Y2  cup  butter 
Melt  butter  in  heavy  kettle,  add  broilers  sprinkled  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Brown  on  all  sides.  Cover  closely,  reduce  heat,  and  cook 
until  tender  (  about  30  minutes ) .  Remove  broilers.  Add  cream  to 
fat  in  pan:  when  hot,  pour  over  pieces  of  toast.  Arrange  broilers 
on  toast   and  garnish. 

SALMON  AND  CHEESE  CASSEROLE 

(Serves  8  to  10) 
2      cups   mashed   potatoes  14    teaspoon   cayenne 

1      cup    hot    medium    white    sauce  Dash   of   pepper 

114    cups   Natural    American  2      cups    canned    salmon,    flaked 

Cheese,    grated  1      cup    buttered    bread    crumbs 

^4  teaspoon  sail 
Place  potatoes  in  buttered  casserole.  Combine  white  sauce,  cheese, 
and  seasonings,  stir  until  cheese  is  melted.  Pour  half  of  sauce  over 
potatoes.  Add  salmon  to  remaining  sauce,  pour  over  contents  of  cas- 
serole. Sprinkle  with  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F.) 
20  miiuites. 


82 


SALMON  ROLY  POLY 

(Serves  8  to  101 

Dough 

2  cups    flour  14,  cup   butter 

3  teaspoons   baking   powder                    1  eg^,   beaten 
I'i    teaspoon    salt                                              V2  cup    milk 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Add  hiitter.  cutting  until  mixture 
resemhles  fine  meal.  Add  combined  egg  and  milk.  Knead  lightly 
for  30  seconds.     Roll  to   rectangular  shape   about   14    inch  thick. 

Filling 

1?4    cups  (No.  1  tall  can)   salmon,  11^4    teaspoons    parsley,    chopped 

flaked  (optional) 

li    cup  milk  or  salad  dressing  V4    cup    sweet    pickle,    chopped 

2      teaspoons    onion,    chopped  ^    teaspoon    salt 

Combine  all  ingredients,  spread  over  dough,  roll  like  jelly  roll.  Bake 
on  buttered  baking  sheet  in  a  hot  oven    (425°   F. )    40  minutes. 

Sauce 
2      cups    Natural    American  V^    cup    milk 

Cheese,    grated 

Melt  cheese  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add  milk  gradually,  stirring 
constantly  until  sauce  is  smooth.  Serve  over  salmon  in  individual 
servings. 

SHRIMP  FONDUE 

(Seizes  8) 

5      slices   white   or   cracked  wheal  2      cups  Natural  American 

bread  Qieese,    grated 

Butter  3      eggs,    slightly    beaten 

Yi   cup    (1    can)    shrimp  2      cups   milk 

Sail   and    pepper 

Remove  crust  from  bread,  spread  bread  generously  with  butter,  cut 
into  1/2-inch  cubes.  Arrange  layer  in  bottom  of  casserole,  then  layer 
of  shrimp,  then  layer  of  cheese,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Repeat  above  layers  until  ingredients  are  used.  Combine 
eggs  and  milk,  pour  over  contents  of  casserole,  set  in  hot  water. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350"  F.)  50  to  60  minutes. 

SHRIMP  AND  RICE  EN  CASSEROLE 

(Serves  6) 

1  cup    cooked    shrimp  6      tablespoons    tomato    catsup 

2  cups   boiled    rice  ^    teaspoon   Tobasco    sauce 

2      cups   cream  1      teaspoon    Worcestershire    sauce 

I      tablespoon   butter  Bread   or   cracker  crumbs,  buttered 

Combine  first  7  ingredients  and  heat  thoroughly  in  double  boiler. 
Pour  into  buttered  casserole.  Sprinkle  top  with  buttered  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs.      Bake  in   a  moderate  oven    (350°   F.)    30  minutes. 


83 


astry' 


COCONUT  CREAM 

PIE 

AT 

LEFT: 

light  as  a  feather  - 

—  a  creamy  gem 

which 

can 

be 

whipped 

up   quickly.     Just 

one   of 

the   many   delicious 

pie 

and   pastry   recipes  in   this 

section 

Directions   are 

on 

page  86. 

APPLESAUCE  CUSTARD  FILLING 

(8-inch  pie  I 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  >^    cup  strained  sweetened 

3  tablespoons  sugar  applesauce 

'4    teaspoon  salt  Nutmeg  or  cinnamon 

1  cup  milk  I 

Beat  sufjar  and  salt  with  eggs,  add  milk  and  fold  in  applesauce. 
Pour  into  rice  lined  pie  pan:  sprinkle  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  1 375  to  400"  F.)  until  custard  is  set 
and  nicely  browned,  about  40  to  45  minutes.     Serve  warm. 

Rice   Pie  Crust 

2  cups  cold  boiled  rice  14    teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  melted  shortening  2      tablespoons  sugar   (optional) 

Press  cold  rice  through  a  coarse  strainer  or  mash  well  with  a  slotted 
wooden  spoon.  Add  melted  shortening,  salt,  and  sugar  and  mix  well. 
Press  evenlv  into  a  greased  8-inch  pie  plate.     Add  filling  and  bake. 

BLACKBERRY  OR  DEWBERRY  PIE 

2^4    cups  berries,  picked  over  and  Sugar 

washed  'h    teaspoon  salt 

Cook  berries  until  soft  with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning.  Add 
sugar  to  taste  and  salt.  Cool.  Line  pie  plate  with  pastry  and  fill 
with  berries.  Put  on  upper  crust  and  make  a  long  cut  in  center. 
Bake  30  minutes  in   moderate  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  CHIP  CUSTARD  PIE 

(10-inch  pie  I 

4  egg    yolks,    beaten  1      graham    cracker    crust 

Vi    eup    sugar  54    eup    semi-sweet    chocolate, 

2      cups    milk,    scalded  chipped 

1      tablespoon    gelatin  54    teaspoon    cream    of    tartar 

V4    cup    cold    water  4      egg    whites 

1      teaspoon   vanilla  54    eup    sugar 

Beat  egg  yolks  and  sugar,  add  milk,  cool  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Add  gelatin  softened  in  water,  add  vanilla.  Cool.  Pour  into  crust. 
Sprinkle  with  chocolate.  Add  cream  of  tartar  to  egg  whites  and 
beat  stiffly.  Add  sugar.  Continue  beating  until  verv  stiff.  Spread 
over  chocolate.     Chill   1   hour. 


85 


CHOCOLATE  LAYER  PIE 

( 10-inch  pie  I 

2      ounces   sweel   cliocolale,  grated         4      egg   whites,   well   beaten 
9-ineh  pastry  shell,  baked  %   cup    sugar 

114    oups   milk  M    teaspoon   salt 

4  egg   yolks,    beaten  1      teaspoon   vanilla  ' 
1      tablespoon    gelatin                                   ^s    teaspoon   nutmeg 

y^   cup   cold   water  1      cup    cream,    whipped 

Sprinkle  half  the  chocolate  over  ])ottoiii  of  hot  pastry  shell.  Scald 
milk  in  double  boiler.  Combine  small  amount  of  milk  with  egg 
yolks  and  return  to  double  boiler;  continue  cooking  until  custard 
coats  spoon.  Add  gelatin  softened  in  water;  chill.  Combine  egg 
whites,  sugar,  and  salt.  Fold  into  mixture;  add  flavorings.  Pour 
filling  into  baked  pastry  shell.  Place  in  refrigerator  until  set.  Be- 
fore serving  spread  with  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle  with  remaining 
chocolate. 

COCONUT  CREAM  PIE 

See  full  color  illustration  on  page  84 
(9-inch  pie) 
V2    cup    sugar  3      egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

5  tablespoons    flour  1      teaspoon    vanilla 

Ys    teaspoon    salt  1      cup   coconut,    shredded 

1  Yi    cups  milk,  scalded 

Combine  first  3  ingredients,  then  add  milk,  cook  over  low  fire  until 
thickened.  Add  egg  yolks,  cook  2  tninutes.  Remove  from  fire, 
cool,  add  vanilla  atid  coconut.  Pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Cover 
with  meringue. 

Meringue 
4      tablespoons    sugar  Ys    teaspoon   salt 

2  egg    whites,    well    beaten  %    teaspoon   vanilla 

Add  sugar  graduallv  to  egg  whites,  beating  constantly.  Add  salt 
and  vanilla.  Pile  lightly  on  pie,  bringing  it  over  crust.  Brown  in 
a  moderate  oven    (350      F.I    9  or   10  minutes. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  APPLE  PIE 

(9-incli  pie) 

IV2    cups    apples,    sliced    lliin  'k  teaspoon    salt 

2  eggs,    slightly    beaten 

Y2  •*"?   cream    and    ^4    cup    milk. 

M    teaspoon    nutmeg  scalded   together 

Pastry  ^  teaspoon   vanilla 

Y2    i"P    sugar  1  i"P   <o»age   cheese 

Combine  apples,  sugar,  and  spices.  Pour  into  pastry  lined  pic  titi. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425"  F. )  15  minutes.  Meanwhile  add  sugar  and 
salt  to  eggs,  combine  with  hot  milk  and  cream.  Add  vanilla  and  cot- 
tage cheese.  Pour  over  apple  mixture.  Continue  baking  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  (325  to  350  F. )  40  niimites.  or  until  mixture  sets  and  is 
a   delicate   brown. 


86 


COTTAGE  CIIKESE  CHERKY  IME 

(9-inch  pie) 

^4    ''"P  MiKar  I'o    «'iips  collage  cheese 

'  I    teaspoon  salt  4      tablespoons  melted  butler 

1  tablespoon   flour  2      ejig  yulks    (unbeaten) 

2  cups  sour  cherries,  pilled  and 
drained 

Coinbine  sugar,  salt,  and  flour.  Add  to  cottage  cheese.  Add  the 
hulter,  egg  yolks,  and  cherries  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  an 
unhaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  400  F.  for  10  minutes  and  then  reduce 
temperature  to  350^  F.  Continue  baking  until  filling  is  firm  or  a 
silver  knife  inserted  in  the  center  conies  out  dean.  Cool  on  a  cake 
rack. 

Butter  Pastry 

2      cups  all-purpose  flour  ^g    cup  butter 

%    teaspoon  sah  Yi    cup  ice  water   (approx.) 

Sift  flour,  measure,  and  sift  with  the  salt.  Cut  in  the  butter  until 
the  mixture  has  the  consistency  of  cornineal.  Add  water  gradually 
until  a  dough  is  formed.  Roll  out  to  y^  inch  thickness.  Fold  and  fit 
into  pan  without  stretching.     Makes  two  9-inch  pie  shells. 


DATE  CREAM  PIE 

(9-inch  pie ) 

V2    cup   sugar  2      cups    dates,    quartered 

^4    cup    cornstarch  \^    cup   pecan    meats,   chopped 

1  teaspoon   salt  1      teaspoon    lemon    juice 

2  cups   thick   sour   cream  9-inch    baked    pie    shell 
2      eggs,    slightly    beaten  Whipped    cream 

Coinbine  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  salt.  Add  cream.  Cook  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  thickened.  Add  eggs,  then  dates  and 
pecan  meats,  stir  well,  cool.  Add  lemon  juice,  pour  into  pie  shell. 
Cool.     Top  with  whipped  cream. 

DEEP  DISH  PEACH  PIE 

(4  seryings) 

6      large  peaches,  peeled  and  halved      \Vi    teaspoons  baking  powder 
Sugar  >2    teaspoon  salt 

1  i4    cups  sifted  cake  or  pastry  flour      4      tablespoons  shortening 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1'2    cup  milk 

Place  peaches  in  casserole:  sprinkle  with  sugar  to  taste.  Cut  shorten- 
ing into  mixed  and  sifted  dry  ingredients  to  the  consistency  of  coarse 
meal.  Add  milk  and  mix  until  just  blended.  Turn  on  floured  board. 
Fold  over  3  times.  Pat  to  size  of  casserole.  Place  on  fruit.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  (375"  F.I    for  1  hour  or  until  pastry  is  done. 


87 


EGGNOG  PIE  IN  GRAHAM  CRACKER  SHELL 

( 9-inch  pie) 

1  nip   rirli    milk  V2  f"P   cofomil    or   mil    meats 

I4  teaspoon    nutmeg  1  teaspoon    vanilla 

3  egg    yolks  3  egg   whites 

V^  cup    sugar  1  graham    cracker    crust 

1^  teaspoon    salt  1'2  «">ip    cream,    whipped 

1  tablespoon    gelatin  Semi-sweet    chocolate,    grated 

M  cup  cold  water 

Heat  milk  in  doiilile  Iioiler.  add  nutmeg.  Beat  egg  yolks,  sugar,  and 
salt  together,  add  to  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  until  mixture 
coats  the  spoon.  Soak  gelatin  in  water,  add  to  custard,  cool.  Add 
coconut  and  flavoring.  Fold  in  well-beaten  egg  whites.  Put  in 
pie  crust,  chill.     Top  with  whipped  cream   and  chocolate. 

LEMON  CHEESE  PIE 

(9-inch  pie) 


1 
'4 

1 

2 

cup      sugar 
cup    flour 
cup   boiling    water 
egg    yolks,    beaten 

Salt 

Juice   of    1    lemon 
Rind    of    1    lemon. 
2       egg    whiles 

grated 

'2 

cup    Natural    American 
Cheese,    grated 

^4    <""P    sugar 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  together.  Add  to  boiling  water,  stirring  vigor- 
ously. Cook  until  thick.  Add  egg  volks,  cook  2  minutes.  Remove 
from  fire.  Add  cheese,  stir  until  melted.  Add  salt,  lemon  juice,  and 
rind.  Pour  into  cheese  pastry  shell.  Cover  with  meringue  made  by 
beating  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  adding  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350     F.I   9  or  10  minutes,  or  until  brown. 

Cheese  Pastry  Shell 

1      cup    flour  5^   cup   Natural    American 

^4    teaspoon    salt  Cheese,   grated 

Yi   cup   lard  2    to    3    tablespoons    cold    water 

Mix  flour  and  salt,  cut  in  lard,  add  cheese,  mix  evenly.  Sprinkle  a 
little  water  over  dry  ingredients,  toss  lightly  with  fork  until  whole 
mixture  is  uniformly  dampened.  Press  into  a  ball.  Roll  out  thin  on 
a  slightly-floured  board.  Fit  looselv  in  a  pie  pan.  Prick  bottom  and 
sides  with  a  fork.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven    (450     F.I    8  to   10  minutes. 

MAMMY'S  FRIED  PIES 

Stew  dried  apples,  peaches,  or  apricots.  Drain  off  all  juice,  mash 
well  and  sweeten.  Roll  plain  pastry  Vs  inch  thick  and  cut  4-inch 
circles  or  squares.  Place  a  spoonful  of  the  filling  on  half.  Moisten 
the  edge  with  cold  water,  fold  over  and  press  the  edges  firmlv  to- 
gether. Frv  in  deep  fat  like  doughnuts  or  saute  with  a  little  fat  in 
a  hot  frying  ])aii,  turning  the  ])ie  so  that  it  will  brown  on  l)oth  sides. 
These  are  good  with  fillings  of  mince  meat  or  anv  thick  jam  or 
preserve. 


ORANGE  PUMPKIN   PIK 

l9-iin'li  pic  I 

I       lrii>p<i<>n    Kinder  2      eggs 

1       le:i:>|i<>cin    ciiinaiiinn  1 '4     t'lips    pumpkin 

'4    cup  boiliiiK  Miller  1       flip    eviiporalecl    milk     (scalded) 

Jg    cup  brown  .-.ugar  3      tablespoons    orange    juice 
'/i    teaspoon    salt 

Make  a  smooth  paste  of  the  spices  and  water.  Add  with  the  sugar, 
salt,  and  Ix-aten  eggs  to  the  piiinpkin.  Stir  to  hletid  thoroughly,  then 
add  liot  milk.  Add  orange  juice  and  pour  immediately  into  an  un- 
hakcd  pic  shell.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425  F.I  IS  minutes,  then 
reduce  to   a  slow  oven    I  .SOO      F.  I    and   ])akc   until   filling   is  just  set. 

PEACH   CRUMBLE  PIE 

Peaches  1      cup  flour 

1      cup  bro»n  sugar  3      tablespoons  butter 

Cut  peaches,  fill  glass  pie  plate.  Cream  hutter.  add  flour  and  sugar 
and  spread  over  peaches.  Bake  in  moderate  o\en  (350  F.I  45  min- 
utes.    Serve  in  haking  dish. 

PECAN  PUMPKIN   PIE 

(9-inch  pie) 

•'4    cup    brown    sugar  H    teaspoon  allspice 

1      teaspoon   cinnamon  Yi    teaspoon   salt 

1  teaspoon   ginger  IM    cups    pumpkin 

•4    teaspoon   nutmeg  1      tablespoon   molasses 

2  tablespoons    orange   juice  II4    cups   rich   milk,   scalded 

2  eggs,    well   beaten  9-inch    pie    shell,    unbaked 

Conihine  sugar,  spices,  sah,  and  pumpkin.  Add  molasses,  orange 
juice,  eggs,  and  hot  milk.  Pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
(425  F. )  10  minutes,  then  in  a  moderate  oven  (325  to  350"  F.) 
30  to  40  minutes. 

Topping 

•4    cup    butter  1    cup   brown    sugar 

1      cup    pecans 

Combine  all  ingredients,  spread  over  top  of  pie.  Place  under 
hroiler  flame  or  return  to  oven  about  5  minutes  to  glaze  top.  Serve 
sligh'lv    warm   or   cold. 

PECAN  PIE 

'2      cup  butter  1      cup  light  corn  syrup 

Yi    cup  brown  sugar  Y2    cup  milk 

3  eggs  }^2    teaspoon  vanilla 

14    teaspoon  salt  1      cup  finely  chopped  pecans 

Cream  hutter  and  sugar.  Add  other  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Line 
pie  plate  with  plain  pastrv,  pour  in  filling,  and  bake  40  minutes  in 
moderate  oven    (350     F. ) .     Chill.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


89 


Humpkin  Chiffon  Pie  —  »«"«»  rfciftt.  luzUiu. 


PUMPKIN  CHIFFON  PIE  WITH  GINGERSNAP  CRUST 

(9-inch  pie) 

3      egg   yolks,   slightly   beaten  I2    teaspoon   ginger 

1      cup   sugar  V2    teaspoon   nutmeg 

1^4    cups    pumpkin  1      tablespoon    gelatin 

Y2    eup    milk  I4    cup   cold   water 

V^    teaspoon   cinnamon  3      egg    whites 

Vo    teaspoon   salt  Whipped    cream 

Combine  egg  yolks.  ^2  fup  sugar,  pumpkin,  milk,  and  spices.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Soak  gelatin  in  water  5  minutes,  add 
to  pumpkin  mixture.  Mix  and  cool.  When  thick,  add  remaining 
sugar  and  fold  in  stiffly  lieaten  egg  whites.  Pour  in  pie  shell  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  Gingersnap  or  graham  cracker  crust 
may  be  used. 


Crust 


IV^    cups   gingersnap    or    graham 
cracker   crumbs 


^2    eup  butler  (scant) 

^    cup    confectioners'    sugar 

Combine  all  ingredients.     Pat  firmly  into  pan.  c     '1  for  several  hours 
Fill  with  above  fillinK  and  chill. 


2 
1 


RAISIN  CRUMB  PIE 

(9-inch  pie) 

3. 


^4    cup  sugar 
14    eup  butter 
1      egg 
Yi    cup  milk 
9-inch  pastry  crust 


cup  water 

cups  seedless  raisins 

cup  sugar 

cup  flour 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

Add  water  to  raisins  and  sugar,  boil  5  minutes.     Sift  dry  ingredients 
together,  mix  in  butter.     Beat  egg,  add  milk  and  half  the  flour  nv 
ture.      Blend  thoroughly,   add   raisin   mixture.      Pour   raisin   mixti 
into  crust.     Sprinkle  top  with  remaining  flour  mixture.     Bake  in  a 
hot  oven   (450°  F. )    10  miiuites,  then  in  a  moderate  oven   (350-   F. ) 
30  minutes.     Mav  be  served  warm  or  cold. 


90 


SOUR  CREAM  RAISIN  PIE 

(9-iiich   pic) 

?4  «'"P    Migar  '2    ''"P    ^ecJ!*"!"*    raisins 

1  lcusp<iun    cinnamon  1      teaspoon   lemon   rinil,  grated 
VS  teaspoon    nutmeg  Salt 

2  eggs,    sliglitlv    beaten  Pie    shell,    unbaked 
1  oup    thick    sour   cream 

Coiiihiiic  siifiar.  sjiicos.  iiiitl  <'fif;s.  Add  cream,  raisins,  rind,  and  salt. 
Pour  filliiif;  into  pic  shell.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (450  F.I  10  minutes, 
then  in  a  moderate  oven  (325  to  350  F. )  30  minutes,  or  until  cus- 
tard is  set.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

(9-incli  pie) 

^    cup    butter  Nutmeg 

Salt  Allspice 

^i    cup   sugar  2      cups   sweet   potatoes,   mashed 

3  egg    yolks  1      cup    rich    milk,    scalded 
Juice    of    1    lemon  3      egg    whites 

^4    teaspoon    cinnamon  9-inch    pie    shell 

Blend  butter,  salt,  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolks,  lemon  juice,  spices, 
potato  pulp,  and  hot  lUiilk.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Place 
in  pie  shell.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (425°  F. )  10  minutes,  then  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350"  F.)   30  to  40  minutes,  until  pie  is  firm  in  center. 

TOASTED  COCONUT  MOUSSE  PIE 

(9-inch  pie) 

1  cup  whipping  cream  1      egg  white 

3  tablespoons  sugar  V2    cup  coconut,  toasted 
V2    teaspoon  vanilla 

Whip  cream,  add  sugar  and  vanilla  extract.  Beat  the  egg  white  until 
stiflf  and  fold  it  into  the  cream  mixture.  Add  coconut.  Place  in 
freezing   tray  of   automatic   refrigerator. 

Graham  Cracker  Crust 

2  cups  graham  crackers,  crushed         }'2    cup  butter,  melted 
Combine.     Pack  into  pie  pan  to  form  crust.     Set  in  refrigerator  to 
chill.     Put  frozen  mixture  in  crust  and  cover  with  sliced  sweetened 
peaches  or  strawberries. 

WASHINGTON  CREAM  PIE 

(Serves  6  to  8) 

?4    cup  cake  flour  •  2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yi    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar                     4  egg  whites 

Salt  1  cup  apricots  or  peaches,  sieved 

4  egg  yolks  1  cup  cream,  whipped 
1      cup  sugar 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together  three  times.  Beat  egg  yolks,  adding 
1/^  cup  sugar  gradually.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  egg  whites  until  foamy, 
adding  14  cup  sugar  graduallv  until  thick  and  smooth.  Fold  yolk 
mixture  into  whites;  fold  in  flour  mixture.  Bake  in  a  spring  form 
pan  (9-inch)  in  a  moderate  oven  (350^  F.)  45  minutes.  Cool.  Re- 
move from  pan,  cut  in  two  crosswise.  Combine  apricot  puree  and 
remaining  sugar,  fold  in  cream.  Put  between  two  layers.  Sprinkle 
top  with  confectioners'  sugar.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


91 


y             •                            .... 

"^ 

FRESH   VEGETABLE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

AT    LEFT:    almost    a    coinpletp    meal    in    itself    and    full    of 

healthful    vitamins.       Fun    to    make    and    delicious    to    eat. 

Reeipe  is  on  page  98  —  just  one  idea  among  many  in  this 

section. 

i 

■ 

APPLE  surpkisp:  mold 

(Serves  6) 

21«    cups  applesauce  2      tablespoons  cold  water 

'4    cup  su{£ar  '4    teaspoon  nutmeg 

2       tablespoons  red  cinnamon  1       tablespoon   lemon  juice 

candies  t  j      3-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

I       tablespoon   gelatin  Lettuce 

Briiifi  the  applesauce  to  a  Ijoil,  remove  from  the  heat  and  add  the 
siipar.  cinnamon  candies,  and  the  gelatin  which  has  heen  softened  in 
the  <'old  water.  Stir  until  all  are  dissolved  in  the  applesauce.  Add 
the  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice,  pour  into  a  ring  mold  and  chill  until 
firm.  I'nmold  on  a  chop  plate  and  garnish  plate  with  cream  cheese 
halls   in  crisj)   lettuce  cups.     Fill  center  of  ring  with   lettuce  hearts. 

APRICOT  COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

(Serves  8) 

1  package  lemon-flavored  2      cups  slewed  dried  apricots, 
gelatin  mashed 

2  cups  boiling  water  1      cup  cottage  cheese 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  water.  Cool  until  it  hegins  to  thicken.  Add 
apricots.  Pour  half  into  mold,  allow  to  harden.  Spread  cottage 
cheese  on  hardened  gelatin.  Pour  remainder  of  gelatin  over  cottage 
cheese.     Chill.     Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  ])oiled  dressing. 

ARGYLL  SALAD  DRESSING 

(11/2  cups) 

1  tablespoon  sugar  12  niarshniallows 

1  teaspoon   salt  1  teaspoon   butler 

1  teaspoon   mustard  1  cup  whipping  I'reani 

4  egg  yolks,  beaten  \^  cup  pecans,  broken 

•4  cup  vinegar 

Comhine  dry  ingredients  with  egg  yolks.  Add  ^  inegar  gradually  and 
cook  slowly  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  niarshniallows  and 
Imtter.  stir  until  melted.     Cool  slightlv.  add  cream  and  nut  meats. 


93 


BUTTERCLP  DRESSING  FOR   FKl  IT  SALAD 


M  cup  flour 

Y2  <""P  sugar 

1'2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup   pineapple  juice 

^4  cup  lemon  juice 


4      egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 
16    niarsliniallows 
4      egg  whiles 
Whipped  cream 


Mix  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  with  sufficient  fruit  juice  to  make  a  smooth 
paste.  Heat  remaining  fruit  juice  to  IjoiHng  point,  add  sugar  mix- 
ture. Cook  until  thick.  Add  egg  volks.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
marshmallovvs.  Vi  hon  cool  fold  in  stifflv  beaten  egg  whites.  To  serve, 
mix  with  an  equal  ])art  of  whipped  cream. 

CHEESE  AND  PEA  SALAD 

(Serves  8  to  101 


.i      cups  peas 

2  har«l-cooked  eggs,  chopped 
or  sliced 

3  or  4  sweet  pickles,  chopped 

54    '■up  Natural  American  Cheese, 
diced 


6      small  radishes,  sliced 

^2    cup  <elery.  diced 

^'4    cup  h«ile<l  salad  dressinjj 

1^    teaspoon  salt 

Lettuce  leaves 


Combine  first  6  ingredients.     Add  salad  dressing  and  salt ;  mix.    Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 


i  hfi^Sf  Marhtr^  .scf'   irrifir   itu   paf;r  V;>. 


(HKKSi:    M  VKBLKS 

2      (-ll|)^   Nalural   Aiiu'ririiii   (ilircM',         1       cup   iloiir 

Skilled  1^    teaspoon  sail 

\-2    cup  biillrr 

Blond  rhcese  ami  linttiT.  add  (lour  and  salt.  Idciidin<:.  Roll  into 
balls  altoiit  size  of  niarhles.  Phu'c  t)n  hutlcicd  liakin^  sheet  and 
hake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F. )  10  uiinutcs,  or  until  done.  Serve 
with  salad. 

coTTACK  chp:ese  AND  vegp:table  salad 

I  Serves  4  to  6  I 

2      cups  cotliiiie  cheese  Salt 

Yi    cup  radishes,  sliied  Paprika 

Yl    eup  unpeeled  cucumber,  diced  \\  atercress  or  lettuce 

M    cup  green  onions  and  tops,  Sour  cream  salad  dressing 
sliced 

Combine  first  6  ingredients;  mix.  Serve  on  watercress  with  salad 
dressing. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  IN  TOMATO  ASPIC 

(Serves  6-8) 

2  tablespoons  gelatin  1      No.  2^  can  or  354  cups  cooked 

'  2  cup  chopped  celerj   leaves  tomatoes 

•2  small  onion  6      cloves 

%  to  1  teaspoon  salt  Few   grains  pepper 

i/R  teaspoon  sugar  I'i    tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1 1 2    tablespoons  vinegar  1  '2    <""PS  cottage  cheese 

'4  cup  chopped  celery  Lettuce  or  other  greens 

Sprinkle  the  gelatin  over  1.^  cup  of  tomato  juice  drained  from  the 
tomatoes.  Cook  the  remainder  of  the  tomatoes  and  juice  with  the 
celery  leaves,  celery,  onion,  cloves,  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  for  10 
tiiinutes.  Put  through  a  sieve  and  add  lemon  juice  and  vinegar. 
Add  the  gelatin  and  tomato  juice  and  stir  until  gelatin  is  dissolved. 
Pour  into  a  ring  mold  and  chill.  When  the  mixture  begins  to  con- 
geal press  in  cottage  cheese  by  spoonfuls.  Chill  until  firm  and  un- 
mold  on  lettuce  or  other  greens.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  or  salad 
dressing  if  desired. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD  IVIOLD 

( Serves  8 ) 

2  tablespoons  gelatin  Vj  cup  salad  dressing 

•4  cup  cold  water  1  cup  peas 

2  cups  cottage  cheese,  sieved  1  cup  celery,  chopped 

^4  teaspoon  salt  ^4  cup  carrots,  grated 

'  s  teaspoon  paprika 

Soften  gelatin  in  water  and  dissolve  over  hot  water.  Combine  cheese, 
salt,  paprika,  and  salad  dressing;  mix.  Add  dissolved  gelatin,  then 
vegetables.  Pour  into  large,  wet  mold.  Chill  until  firm.  Unmold 
on  bed  of  lettuce.     Serve  with  salad  dressing. 


95 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  clove  garlic  1      teaspoon  salt 

V2    green  pepper,  chopped  ' ,    teaspoon  paprika 

2  radishes,  chopped  3      tablespoons  lemon  juice 
2      hard-cooked  egg  yolks,  mashed        lo    cup  buttermilk 

6      tablespoons  cottage  cheese 

Rub  inside  of  IjowI  with  fjarlic.  Combine  jjreen  pepper,  radishes, 
and  egg  yolks  in  Ijowl,  add  remaining  ingredients,  mix  thoroughly. 
Pour  over  hearts  of  lettuce  or  any  green  salad. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALMON  SALAD 

(Serves  6) 
1      cup  cottage  cheese  Salt 

1  cup  red  salmon,  flaked  Pepper 

1/4    cup  celery,  chopped  I/2    fi'P  mayonnaise 

^    cup  sweet  pickles,  chopped 

Combine  ingredients  in  order  given.  Chill  to  improve  flavor.  Serve 
with  a  tart  salad  dressing  on  lettuce.  As  a  variation,  tuna  may  be 
used  instead  of  salmon. 

CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  COLE   SLAW 

(Serves  6  to  8) 
1,4    cup  thick  sour  or  sweet  cream  Vs    teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Pepper 

1'4    cup  vinegar  1      quart  cabbage,  finely  shredded 

Few  drops  onion  juice 

Combine  first  6  ingredients,  beat,  pour  over  cabbage.  Mix  well  and 
serve  at  once. 

CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALADS 

( 1   quart ) 

V2    <"i'P  butter  Vi    cup  vinegar 

2  tablespoons   flour  1      teaspoon  salt 
1      cup  milk  14    cup  sugar 

3  egg  yolks,  beaten  3      egg  whites 
1      teaspoon  mustard 

Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Combine  egg  volks 
and  mustard,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  in  top  of  double 
boiler.  Add  salt  and  remaining  vinegar.  Pour  cream  sauce  over  egg 
mixture  gradually  and  return  to  double  boiler,  cook  until  thickened. 
Remove  from   fire,   add  sugar,  fold   in  stifflv  beaten  egg  whites. 


■-OP 


CREAMY  SALAD 

(Serves  10  to  12) 

1  cup  seedless  raisins  \'2    cup  pe;uiut  biUter 

2  cups  celery,  finely  chopped  1      cup  boiled  salad  dressing 
1      tablespoon  gelatin                                   2      cups  cottage  cheese 

^    cup  cold  water 

Combine  raisins  and  celery.  Soften  gelatin  in  water  and  dissolve 
over  hot  water.  Blend  ]>eanut  butter  and  salad  dressing,  add  cot- 
tage cheese,  dissolved  gelatin,  raisins,  and  celerv.  mix  thoroughlv. 
Pour  into  large  mold   or   individual   molds.     Chill   until  firm. 


96 


CUCUMBER   COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

(Serves  101 

2  ctipN  fottafie  rlieese  Sull 

\-2  cup  sour  rreuiii  Pepper 

Vi  Clip  cliives.  chopped  1. el  luce  leaves 

'  •_>  ciieiiinber.  diced  I       tablespoon  walercress.  chopped 

-Mix  cotlajie  clioese  ami  cream  lightly  with  fork.  Add  chives,  cucum- 
ber, salt,  and  |)e|)i)er.  Shape  into  mounds  on  lettuce  leaves.  Garnish 
with   watercress. 

DAIRY  LUNCH  PLATE 

(Serves  Ij 

On  a  hed  of  lettuce  place  a  slice  of  pineapple.  Cover  with  y^  to  ^/^ 
cup  cottage  cheese,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  moistened  with 
whip]>ing  cream.  Cover  with  another  slice  of  pineapple  if  preferred 
and  top  with  a  spoonful  of  the  cheese.  Arrange  slices  of  avocado, 
grapefruit  sections,  tomato  wedges,  and  strips  of  lean  broiled  bacon 
attractively  around  pineapple.  Serve  with  French  dressing.  Ameri- 
can cheese  cubes  and  bananas  cut  in  half  lengthwise  or  sliced  may 
be  added.  ' 

DATE-NUT  SALAD 

(Serves  4) 

1  Clip  chopped  celery  Mayonnaise 

1  cup  chopped  apple  Lettuce 

1  cup  shredded  dales  1      cup  shredded  American  Cheese 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  V^    cup  chopped  nutmeals 

Combine  the  celery,  apple,  dates,  and  lemon  juice.  Add  mayonnaise 
to  moisten  well.  Chill  thoroughly.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce,  garnished 
with  the  shredded  cheese  and  chopped  nut  meats. 

EGG  AND  PEANUT  SALAD  WITH  CELERY 

6      hard-cooked  eggs  Mayonnaise 

/4    to  Yi  cup  chopped  peanuts  or  Celery  curls 

peanut  butter  Garnished  with  peanut  halves 

Cut  the  eggs  in  half  lengthwise,  remove  the  volks  and  combine  with 
chopped  peanuts  or  peanut  butter  and  mayonnaise  to  moisten.  Fill 
the  whites  with  this  mixture.  Put  two  halves  of  egg  on  a  plate,  sur- 
round with  curls  of  celery.  Put  mayonnaise  dressing  over  each  egg 
and  garnish  with  peanut  halves.  Lay  a  halved  peanut  on  each  cel- 
ery curl. 

FRESH  PEACH  AND  COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

(Serves  6) 
9      medium  sized  or  1      cup  cottage  cheese 

6  large  peaches  Lettuce 

Peel  peaches,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  pits.  Place  on  lettuce  or 
other  greens  with  the  cut  sides  up  and  fill  centers  with  cottage  cheese. 
Serve  with  French  or  salad  dressing. 


97 


FRESH  VEGETABLE  AND  CHEESE  SALAD 

(Serves  10  to  12) 

See  full  color  illiifitration  itn  page  92 

2      hea<L>^  letliioe.  cut  in  eighths  \X  hiles  ol'  4  hard-cooked  eggs, 
4      tomatoes,  peel  and  eiil  in  sliced 

squares  French  dressing 

1  union,  finely  chopped  2      cups  Natural  American  Cheese, 

2  cups  celery,  diced  grated 

1      bunch  radishes,  sliced  Yolks  of  4  hard-cooked  eggs,  sieved 

1      cucumber,  diced 

Toss  first  7  iniiredieiits  tofjether  in  salad  bowl.  Pour  French  dressing 
over  contents.      Garnish   with  cheese  and   egg  yolks. 

FROSTED  MELON  IMOLD 

Melon  Milk 

Fruit  gelatin  Curly  endive  or  chicory 

Oeam  cheese  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing 

Peel  a  whole  melon.  Cut  a  slice  from  end  and  remove  seeds.  Fill 
center  with  fruit  gelatin  and  refrigerate  until  gelatin  is  firm.  Slightly 
soften  cheese  with  milk  and  frost  the  entire  outside  of  melon.  Serve 
in  slices  on  crisp  chicorv.  with  dressing. 

GRAPE  CLUSTER  SALAD 

Place  each  pear  half  round  side  up  on  galax  leaves.  Slightly  soften 
cream  cheese  with  milk  and  spread  it  over  the  pear  halves.  Cut 
grapes  in  half,  remove  the  seeds,  and  cover  each  pear  with  grape 
halves  to  resemlile  a  ])unch  of  grapes.  Place  a  hit  of  grape  stem,  or 
galax  stem,  in  the  large  end  of  each  pear.  Serve  with  French 
dressing. 


FntzPTi  Fruit  Salad  —  srr  rrcipr  on  pnfsr  09. 


FKOZKN  FKIIT  SALAD 

I  Serves   8  I 

12  niar->hiniillfi\\->.  f|tuirt«>r(>(l  \^2    cup  Miira-><-liiiio  t-|ierrie> 

I  c'ii|i   DuiyuiiiiaiM-  2      cups  <'annr<l  fruit,  ml   in   liiiif 

1  nip  Mliippin^  cream  (pears,  pineapple,  or  peailio) 

3  ounces  (^3  cup)  crciiiii  rlieese 

Coiiiliiiie  inarshiiiallows  ami  fruit  juice,  let  stand  until  luarshniallows 
have  softened.  Coiiiljiiie  mayonnaise,  whipped  cream,  and  cheese, 
mix  until  creamy,  add  fruit.  Pour  into  refrijjerator  tray  and  freeze 
3  hours.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  whijiped  cream 
if  desired. 

HONEY  SALAD  DRESSING 

.3      egfT  volks.  well  beaten  Y3   cup  lemon  juice 

'2    cup  honey  Rind  of"  1  lemon,  grated 

1      tablespoon  sugar  ijj    cup  cream,  wliipped 

Combine  first  5  ingredients  in  double  boiler,  cook,  stirring  constantly, 
until  tliick.    Cool.    Add  cream. 

JELLIED  CHEESE   SALAD 

I         ( Serves  6 1 
'  2    piniiento.  chopped  1       tablespoon   lemon  juiee 

'  1    cup  nut  meats,  chopped  1      tablespoon  gelatin 

'4    cup  green  peppers,  chopped  I4    cup  cold  water 

'  4    cup  stuffed  olives,  chopped  I4    teaspoon  salt 

I       cup  Natural  American  Cheese.  ^2    cup  cream,  whipped 

grated  French  dressing 

'  2    cup  boiled  dressing 

Combine  first  7  ingredients:  mix.  Soak  gelatin  in  water  and  dissolve 
over  hot  water.  Add  to  mixture.  Add  salt,  fold  in  cream.  Pour  into 
individual  molds  or  one  large  mold.  Chill.  Lnmold  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  French  dressing. 

MAGIC  MAYONNAISE 

(11/2   cups) 
M    cup  lemon  juice  1      egg  yolk 

14    cup  butter,  melted  V2    teaspoon  salt 

3^   cup  sweetened  condensed  milk  1      teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Place  ingredients  in  pint  jar  in  order  listed.  Fasten  top  tightly, 
shake  vigorouslv  for  2  minutes.     Chill  for  thicker  consistency. 

MOLDED  COTTAGE  CHEESE  AJVD  PINEAPPLE   SALAD 

(Serves  12) 

1       package  lemon-flavored  gelatin  1       cup  boiling  water 

1      cup  boiling  water  1      cup  pineapple  juice 

1      cup  cream,  whipped  1      cup  pineapple,  chopped 

I'o    cups  cottage  cheese  ^4   cup  stuHed  olives,  sliced 

1      package  lime-flavored  gelatin  Y3   cup  walnut  meats,  broken 

Dissolve  lemon  gelatin  in  water,  cool  slightlv.  beat  with  egg  beater 
until  light.  Add  cream,  beat,  add  cottage  cheese.  Pour  into  round 
mold,  allow  to  set  until  quite  firm.  Dissolve  lime  gelatin  in  water 
and  pineapple  juice:  cool.  Add  pineapple,  olives,  and  walnut  meats. 
Pour  on  top  of  first  mold,  allow  to  set  until  firm.  Lnmold  on  salad 
plate.     Cut  like  cake. 


99 


OAK  PARK   SALAD  DRESSING 

1      cup  »liipping  cream  I4    teaspoon  salt 

14    cup  niayoiiiiaise  Juice  of  1  lemon 

Yi  cup  brown  sugar 

Whip  cream,  add  mayonnaise.  Add  combined  sugar,  salt,  and  lemon 
juice.     More  sugar  may  be  used  for  fruit  salad. 

SALAD  DRESSING  — I 

3  tablespoons  sugar  Vz    teaspoon  celery  sail 

^2  teaspoon  pepper  2      eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Yi  teaspoon   niiislard  %   cup  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  sail  Yl   cup  vinegar 

Combine  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs,  then  add  sour  cream  and  vinegar. 
Cook  until  thick.  May  be  thinned  with  sweet  or  sour  cream  when 
served. 

SALAD  DRESSING  —  II 

-I  egg  yolks,  beaten  }-2    cup  vinegar 

1  cup  cream  1      tablespoon  ground  mustard 

Y2  eup  sugar  Vo    teaspoon  salt 

14  cup  butler  Pinch  red  pepper 

Combine  all  ingredients,  cook  in  doul)le  boiler  or  over  slow  fire 
until  thickened. 

SOUR   CREAM  DRESSING  —  I 

1  cup  ihick  sour  cream  1^    tablespoons  lemon  juice 
1/4    teaspoon  salt  l^    cup  honey 

Combine  in  order  listed,  beat  well.  Pour  over  finely  shredded 
cabbage. 

SOUR   CREAM  DRESSING  —  II 

\<z    cup  thick  cream  I4    teaspoon   mustard 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2      tablespoons  vinegar 

1/4    teaspoon  paprika  3      tablespoons  chili  saiu-e  or  catsup 

Mix  all  ingredients  together,  beat  or  whip  until  smooth.     Chill. 
SOUR  CREAM  DRESSING  —  III 

1  cup  thick  sour  cream  1 V^  to  2  teaspoons  prepared 

2  teaspoons  sugar  mustard 

1  teaspoon  salt  Paprika 

Beat  cream  until  stifiF  and  smooth,  add  seasonings,  mix  well.  As  a 
variation  add  ^4  flip  peanut  Initter,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  omit 
the  mustard. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

'  2    cup  mayonnaise  dressing  2      tablespoons  chili  sauce 

2  tablespoons  pimienlos.  finely  V-y    cup  whipping  cream 
chopped                                                         2      hard-cooked  eggs,  coarsely 

1  teaspoon  chives,  minced  chopped 

2  tablespoons  tomato  catsup 

Combine  first  5  ingredients.  When  ready  to  serve,  whip  cream,  add 
cream   and  eggs  to  first  mixture. 


100 


Tiniiiilii  Riiift  Salmt  —  see  recipe  rin  this  pagf. 


TOMATO  RUNG  SALAD 

(Serves  6) 


1      tablespoon  green  pepper, 

chopped 
1      tablespoon  chili  sauce  or  catsup 
14    teaspoon  salt 
14    teaspoon  paprika 
Salad  greens 
French  dressing 

Peel  tomatoes.  Cut  thin  slice  from  stem  end,  scoop  out  center,  drain. 
Soften  gelatin  in  water,  combine  next  7  ingredients.  Fill  centers 
of  tomatoes  with  this  mixture.  Chill  until  firm.  Slice  with  sharp 
knife.     Arrange  on  greens,  serve  «-ith   French  dressing. 


2  to  3  large,  firm  tomatoes 

1      teaspoon  gelatin 

1      tablespoon  water 

1      cup  cottage  cheese 

1      tablespoon  celery,  chopped 

1      teaspoon  pickles,  chopped 


101 


SANDWICH  LOAF 

AT  LEFT:  a  tasty  luncheon  dish  made  of  odds  and  ends 
from  refrigerator  and  pantry  —  proof  that  the  lowly  sand- 
wich can  become  the  symbol  of  true  hospitality.  Recipe  is 
on   page   104. 


AMERICAN  DAIRY  SANDWICH 

1  pound  NaUiral  American  1,4    pound  dried  beef 
Cheese                                                           Tonialo  soup 

Put  cheese  and  beef  through  food  chopper;  moisten  with  soup. 
\^  ill  keep  several  weeks  in  refrigerator. 

BROILED  CHEESE  SANDWICH 

(Serves  6) 

6      slices  bread  Pepper 

6      slices  INatural  American  Cheese        12   strips  bacon 

Slices  of  tomato 

Spread  bread  with  butter,  cover  bread  with  cheese,  then  layer  of 
tomato,  pepper.  Place  2  strips  of  bacon  on  each  sandwich.  Broil 
until  cheese  melts  and  bacon  is  crisp.  May  be  prepared  in  advance 
and  broiled  just  before  serving. 

Note:    Bacon  may  he  omitted. 

CHEESE-HAM  SANDWICH  FILLING 

{lYz  pints) 

'4    pound  cream  cheese  1      small  onion 

^4    pound  boiled  or  baked  ham  1      pimiento 

2  large  dill  pickles,  or  4  small  Sweet  cream  or  salad  dressing 
sweet  pickles  Bread 

Put  first  5  ingredients  through  food  chopper.  Add  cream;  mix  well. 
Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

CHEESE  ROLLS 

(Serves  6  I 

6      wieners  6      slices  bacon 

6      pieces  Natural  American  Cheese        6      wiener  rolls,  toasted  and 
(^x^4x4  inches)  buttered 

Slit  wieners  lengthwise.  Insert  cheese  in  slit.  Wrap  with  bacon, 
spiral  fashion.  Fry  or  toast,  with  slit  side  down,  for  a  ha'i  Tninute. 
Serve  hot  in  roll  held  together  with  toothpicks. 


103 


FIRESIDE   SNACKS 

(Serves  6  I 

Va    pound  spiced  liani  1      green  pepper 

6      large  sweet  pickles  1      niediiini  onion 

Yo    pound  Natural  American  Cheese      6      wiener  rolls 

Put  first  5  ingredients  through  food  grinder:  conihine.  Cut  rolls 
along  one  side,  remove  some  of  renter  dough,  fill  with  mixture. 
Heat  in  a  moderate  oven    (350     F.I    15  minutes. 

HONEY  BUTTER 

1  cup  butter  1      cup  honey 

Put  butter  and  honey  in  l)owl;  place  howl  in  hot  water.  When 
creamy  in  consistency  heat  until  hiended.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Use  as 
a  sandwich  spread. 

NIPPY  CHEESE  SANDWICH  FILLING 

(21/2   cups) 

2  tablespoons  granulated   tapioca  I4    pound  dried  beef,  finely  ground 
2      cups  tomatoes,  strained  and               \  s    teaspoon  pepper 

heated  1^4    teaspoon   mustard 

2  cups  aged  Natural  American  1,4    teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce 
Cheese,  grated 

Cond)ine  tapioca  an<l  tomato  juice.  (]ook  in  doulile  boiler  until 
tapioca  is  dear,  stirring  frequently.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  cheese 
gradually,  stir  until  melted.     Add  dried  beef  and  seasoning.     Cool. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  — HONEY  SANDWICH  FILLING 

1/2    cup  peanut  butter  2    to   3   tablespoons   honey 

Mix  together  thoroughly  and  spread  on  slices  of  buttered  bread. 
Chopped  dried  fruits  such  as  raisins,  prunes  or  dates  may  be  added 
if  desired. 

SANDWICH  LOAF 

See  full  colnr  illustration  on  page  102 

1      loaf  sandwich  bread  1      cup  red  salmon,  flaked 

1  cup  Natural  American  Cheese,  I4    cup  green  pickle,  chopped 
grated  ^4    cup  Blue  Vein  cheese,  grated 

3  tablespoons  pickle  relish  Stufl'ed  olives,  sliced 

2  tablespoons  pimiento,  chopped         Cucumber  pickles,  sliced 
11 2    cups  dressing  ^2    pound  cream  cheese 

■  Remove  all  crusts  from  loaf  of  bread.  Cut  in  four  lengthwise  slices. 
Combine  cheese,  pickle  relish,  and  pimiento.  Moisten  with  dressing. 
Spread  on  one  slice  of  bread,  cover  with  second  slice.  Combine 
salmon  and  ])ickle.  moisten  with  dressing.  Spread  on  second  slice, 
cover  with  third  slice.  Tint  Blue  Vein  cheese  with  green  food  color- 
ing. Combine  with  chop])ed  olives.  Moisten  with  dressing.  Spread 
on  third  slice,  cover  with  fourth  slice.  Blend  cream  cheese.  Season 
with  salt  and  paprika.  Moisten  with  dressing.  Spread  over  entire 
surface  of  loaf.  Place  in  refrigerator  overnight.  Garnish  top  and 
sides  with  olives,  sweet  cucumber  pickles  and  pimiento.  Place  on 
large  platter  and  garnish  with  hearts  of  lettuce  and  small  clusters 
of  crisp   parsley. 


I 


104 


SHKIIVIP  SANDWICHES 

(Serves  6) 

3  lablesp<l(>■l^  biittrr  IU>    «•ll|J^  hIioU-  >liriin|i 

4  tablespoons   Hour  12   slires  loiisl,  biillcred 

14    teaspoon  salt  6      slices  !\atiiral  American  Cheese 

2      cups  milk,  scalded  Parsley 

V6    teaspoon  pepper 

Make  white  sauce  of  first  5  ingredients.  Combine  shrimp  with  1  cup 
white  sauce.  Place  a  generous  amount  I>etween  two  slices  huttered 
toast.  Top  with  slice  of  cheese,  place  under  low  broiler  flame  until 
cheese  is  melted.  Pour  remaining  sauce  over  top.  Garnish  with 
parsley.      Serve   with   pickles. 


SPANISH  SANDWICH  FILLING 

4      cups  Natural  American  Cheese.  Salt 

S*"^'™  2      hard-cooked  eggs,  firmly 
I-4    cup  milk  chopped 

1      egg,  beaten  ^   cup  pimiento 

Melt  cheese  in  double  boiler,  add  milk,  egg,  and  salt.  Cook  until 
thick  and  smooth,  reiuove  from  flame,  add  eggs  and  pimiento.  Cool. 
Olives  and  pickles  may  be  added. 


TASTY  MOCK  CHICKEN  SANDWICHES 

(Serves  6 1 

1  small  can  condensed  cream  6      slices  bread,  toasted  and 
of  mushroom  soup  buttered 

54    cup  milk  %    cup  Natural  American  Cheese, 

2  cups  cooked  veal,  diced  grated 

Combine  soup  and  milk,  heat,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  veal.  Place  bread  in  shallow  baking  pan.  Spread  veal  mixture 
over  toast  and  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Bake  in  hot  oven  (400°  F.) 
10   minutes,   or  »intil   cheese   is   melted.      Serve   immediatelv- 


TOASTED  CHEESE  PINWHEELS 

(Serves  16) 

Loaf  of  bread  Natural  American  Cheese,  grated. 

Butter  •""  <^reani  cheese 

Remove  crusts  from  loaf  of  bread  and  slice  lengthwise.  Blend  butter 
and  cheese,  spread  bread.  Roll  like  jelly  roll  and  set  in  refrigerator 
until  firm.  Slice,  then  toast  on  buttered  cookie  sheet  under  broiler 
flame.     Turn   once. 


105 


BECHAMEL 

SAUCE 

AT  LEFT: 

a  choice  sauce  which 

adds  lo  your  favorite 

fish. 

sea  food,  or 

stuffed  eggs.    This  recipe  is  shown  immediately 

below. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE 

See  full  citlor  illustration  on  opposite  page 

^4    cup  butter,  melted  2      cups  chicken  stock  or  2  bouillon 

6      tablespoons  flour  cubes  in  2  cups  water 

%    teaspoon  salt  1      "'P  >'''<"'*^  cream 

Vo    teaspoon  paprika  8      olives,  stoned  and  finely  cut 

Dash  of  pepper  2      teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Natural  American  Cheese,  grated 

Blend  butter,  flour,  and  seasonings.  Add  combined  stock  and  cream. 
Cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  add  olives  and  lemon  juice, 
mix  well.  May  be  served  over  oysters,  stuffed  eggs,  or  fish  fillets. 
Sprinkle  cheese  over  top. 

BROWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

Y2    <^"P  butter  ij    cup  cream 

Y2    <^iip  brown  sugar  1      teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter  over  low  fire,  add  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  cream 
and  vanilla,  heat  slowly.     Serve  hot  on  steamed  puddings. 

BUTTER  ORANGE  FLUFF 

}/2    cup  butter  1      teaspoon  orange  rind,  grated 

^    cup  brown  sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  orange  rind,  blend  well. 
Serve  on  waffles,  pancakes,  or  steamed  puddings. 

CHEESE  SAUCE 

2      tablespoons  butter  1^^  cup  Natural  American  Cheese. 

2      tablespoons  flour  grated 

1      cup  milk  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1^4  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  add  milk  slowly,  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantlv.     Add  remaining  ingredients.     Serve  hot. 


107 


CIDER  SAUCE 


1  egg,  beaten 

1  cup  butler,  melted 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  bro^'u  sugar 


I4    cup  sweet  cider 
1       tablespoon  vinegar  or 
lemon   juice 


Cook  egg,  butter,  and  sugar  over  hot  water  2  inimites.  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  cider  and  vinegar,  cook  3  minutes.  Remove  from 
fire.     Beat  briskly  until  cool.     Serve  on  slices  of  pudding. 


FOAMY  HARD  SAUCE 

I      egg,  beaten 

^2    C"P  butter,  melted 

1      cup  confectioners"  sugar 


1      teaspoon  vanilla 

}'s    teaspoon  salt 

1      cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 


Beat  egg  well,  add  Iiutter  gradually,  beating  constantly.  Add  sugar, 
mix  well,  add  vanilla  and  salt,  mix.  Fold  in  wbipped  cream.  Serve 
immediately. 


108 


GRAPE  JUICE   SAUCE    (For  Ham) 

1      tablespoon  cornslaroli  1      cup  grape  juice 

\i    cup  cold  walcr  Juice  1  lemon 

^    cup  hot  water 

Mix  cornstarcli  and  cold  water,  add  hot  water.  Cook  until  thick- 
ened and  add  fruit  juices.     Serve  hot. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE  —  I 

Vi    cup  butter  I4    cup  horseradish 

Salt  Cayenne 

Combine  all  ingredients,  blend  well.  Serve  on  broiled  steaks  or 
chops. 

HORSERADISH  SAUCE  —  H 

Yo    cup  cream,  whipped  V4    cup  horseradish 

V2    cup  cottage  cheese  1^4    teaspoon  salt 

1      tablespoon  Vinegar 

Combine  cream  and  cheese,  add  vinegar,  horseradish,  and  salt. 

LEMON  "CREAM"  SAUCE 

(6  to  8  Servings) 

1  cup  evaporated  milk  1      cup  confectioners'  sugar 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Grated  lemon  rind 
4      teaspoons  butter 

Chill  milk  thoroughly.  Whip  until  stiff.  Add  lemon  juice  and  whip 
until  veiy  stiff.  Cream  butter.  Add  sugar  and  cream  until  thor- 
oughly  mixed.      Fold   into   whipped   milk   with   lemon   rind. 

SOUR  CREAM  SAUCE 

2      egg  yolks  Y2    teaspoon  parsley,  minced 

^    cup  thick  sour  cream  V4    teaspoon  paprika 

1      tablespoon  lemon  juice  ^4    teaspoon  salt 

Combine  egg  yolks  and  cream.  Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  sauce 
begins  to  thicken.  Remove  from  fire,  add  lemon  juice,  parsley, 
paprika,  and  salt.     Serve  on  vegetables. 

STEAK   SAUCE 

]>'2    cup  butter  2  tablespoons  catsup 

1      tablespoon  Worcestershire  1  teaspoon  paprika 

sauce  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  or 

14    teaspoon  dry  mustard  vinegar 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Add  steak  drippings.  Boil  one  minute  and 
pour  over  broiled  or  pan-fried  steak. 


109 


^ 

1 

SALMON   BISQUE 

AT   LEFT:    a    dclcclable   soup    witli    a    pleasiii;;   flavor-     an 

easy-to-make  dish.    The  recine  is  on  page  115  —  one  of  many 

others  in   this  section  you   will  want  to  try. 

J 

BEAN  CHOWDER 

(Serves  6) 

'2    pound   (1  i-iip)  navy  beans  1  •  •>    teaspoons  sah 

'  s    pound  salt  pork  3      cups  hoi  water 

3  tablespoons  minced  onion  3      cups  milk 

Soak  beans  overnii;lit  in  cold  water;  drain.  Cut  pork  in  cubes,  saute 
until  l)rowned.  Add  onion  and  saute  slightly.  Add  hot  water,  beans 
and  salt  and  simmer  1  hour,  or  until  beans  are  tender.  Add  milk; 
iieat.     Serve  with  buttered,  toasted  crackers. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 

1  hen  6   or  8  white  potatoes,  cubed 

1  quart  corn  2      onions 

1  quart  tomatoes  1      pod  red  pepper 

1  pint  okra  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  pint  butter  beans 

Boil  chicken  until  it  will  leave  the  bones  and  be  very  tender.  Pull 
meat  from  bones  and  cut  into  large  cubes,  return  to  the  water  in 
which  it  was  cooked,  add  vegetables  and  cook  down  until  a  thick 
mixture.     Cook  slowly  and  stir  often  to  prevent  scorching. 

Note:  Fresh  vegetables  are  best,  but  the  canned  may  be  used.  Any 
vegetables  liked  may  be  added.  Pork,  approximately  1^/2  pounds, 
is  a  nice  addition  to  the  stew.  Tobasco  sauce,  Worcestershire  sauce 
or  other  sauces  should  be  used  to  flavor  according  to  taste. 

CHEESE  SOUP  WITH  RICE 

(Serves  6) 

1  tablespoon  onion,  chopped  1      teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  '4    teaspoon  pepper 

2      tablespoons  flour  2      egg  yolks,  well  beaten 

4  cups  milk  1  la    cups  rice,  cooked 
1-2    cup  Natural  American  Cheese, 

grated 

Cook  onion  in  jjuttcr  for  5  minutes,  add  flour  and  milk.  Cook  until 
slightly  thickened.  Add  cheese,  salt,  and  pepper,  stirring  until  cheese 
is  melted.  Pour  over  egg  volks.  stirring.  Serve  immediately  with 
spoonful  of  hot   rice. 


Ill 


CORN  BISQUE 

(Serves  8) 
11^    cups  tomatoes  6      tablespoons  butler 

6      cloves  3      cups  milk 

3  bay  leavtes  1^    cups  corn 

lYi    teaspoons  sugar  3      tablespoons  flour 

1 14    teaspoons  salt  6      tablespoons  milk,  cold 

Pepper  Paprika 

Combine  first  6  ingredients,  cook  10  minutes,  strain,  add  Ijiitter. 
Combine  milk  and  corn,  scald  in  double  boiler,  mix  flour  and  milk 
to  smootb  paste,  add  to  milk  and  corn  mixture,  stirring  occasionally. 
Slowly  add  tomato  to  corn  mixture.  Serve  hot  at  once.  Sprinkle 
each  serving  with   paprika. 

CREAM  OF  CARROT  CHOWDER 

(Serves  8) 
2      cups  carrots,  diced  1      tablespoon   flour 

2      cups  potatoes,  diced  -I      cups  hot  milk 

5      tablespoons  butter  1^4    teaspoons  salt 

1      medium  onion,  chopped  14    teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  carrots  and  potatoes  until  tender.  C»ok  butter  and  onion  in 
saucepan  for  5  minutes.  Add  flour,  stir,  add  milk,  cook  about  3 
minutes.  Add  vegetables,  salt,  and  pepper.  Reheat.  Add  a  bit  of 
butter  to  each  bowl  of  soup. 

CREAM  OF  CARROT  SOUP  WITH   CHEESE 

(Serves  6) 

I4    cup  butter  Y2    teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  flour  V6    teaspoon  pepper 

4      cups  milk  ^4    cp  Natural  American  Cheese. 

1      cup  raw  carrots,  grated  grated 

Make  thin  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Cook  carrots  in 
small  amount  of  water  until  tender.  Add  carrots  with  liquid  and 
seasonings.  Reheat.  Sprinkle  cheese  over  top  just  before  serving. 
Serve   with  toasted  bread  sticks  or  squares. 

CREAM  OF  CHEESE  SOUP 

(Serves  6) 

1  tablespoon  onion,  minced  '2    cup  Natural  American  Cheese. 

2  tablespoons  butter  grated 

3  tablespoons  flour  1      tablespoon  parsley 

4  cups  milk  ^    teaspoon  salt 

Cook  onion  in  butter  5  minutes,  add  flour,  stir,  add  milk.  Cook  until 
slightly  thickened.  Add  cheese,  stir  until  cheese  is  melted.  Add 
parsley  and  salt. 

CREAM  OF  CORN  AND  OYSTER  SOUP 

(Serves  6) 

3  teaspoons  butter  1      No.  2  can   (2I4  cups)  corn 

.3  teaspoons  flour  1      pint  oysters 

3  cups  hot  milk  Paprika 

\.<2  teaspoon  salt  Parsley,  chopped 

Make  thin  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  milk,  and  salt.  Add  corn 
and  oysters,  let  simmer  about  10  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  paprika 
and  parsley  just  before  serving.     Serve  with  cheese  wafers. 


112 


2*4    <'"p!»  rreani  style  corn, 
canned  or  fresh 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOIP 

(Serves  6) 
1       liiblespoon  butler 

1  tabl<'spo<»ii    flour 

2  •'4    cups   milk  S"'« 

Pepper 

1      egg  yolk,  well  beuten 

Make  thin  white  sauee  with  liutter.  flour,  and  milk.     Add  corn  and 
rul)   tlirough  sieve.     Reheat.     Season  and  add  egg  yolk. 


CREAM  OF  OLIVE   AND  CELERY  SOUP 

( Serves  6 1 

2      eiips  diced  celery  and  cliopped  1  cup  green  olives,  chopped 

•eaves  .3  tablespoons  butter 

1       small  onion,  minced  iz  ^„p   ffour 

1      teaspoon  salt  3  cups  milk 

Cook  celerv  and  onion  in  a  small  amount  of  salted  water  until  tender. 
Cook  olives  in  hutter  2  minutes.  Stir  in  flour,  add  milk,  cook  until 
thickened.     Add  celerv  and  onion  mixture.     Reheat. 


Crrtini  nf  Cttrti  ituil  Oy^tfr  Soup  - 


mpr  nn  pri 


■r  1  r: 


CREAM  OF  ONION  SOUP 

(Serves  6) 
6      inediuin  onions,  sliced  1      teaspoon  salt 

3      tablespoons  butter,  melted  '4    teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  flour  2      tablespoons  Natural  American 

4  cups  milk  Cheese,  grated 

Cook  onions  until  tender,  sieve.  Make  thin  white  sauce  with  Ijutter, 
flour,  and  milk.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  onions.  Reheat.  Serve 
garnished  with  cheese. 

CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP 

(Serves  4  to  6) 

1  onion,  chopped  2*4    cups  cooked  peas,  sieved 

M  cup  butter  ^    teaspoon  salt 

14  eup  flour  \^s    teaspoon  pepper 

4  cups  milk 

Cook  onion  in  hiitter  5  minutes.  Add  floiu'  and  mix,  add  milk,  cook 
until  thickened.     Add  peas,  salt,  and  pepper.     Reheat. 

CREAM  OF  PEANUT  BUTTER  SOUP 

(Serves  6) 

1  tablespoon  butter  1^4    teaspoon  pepper 

2  onions,  finely  chopped  4      cups  milk 

1      tablespoon   flour  2      tablespoons  Natural  American 

14    cup  peanut  butter  Cheese,  grated 
Y2    teaspoon  salt 

Melt  hutter,  hrown  onion,  add  flour,  peanut  hutter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Add  milk  slowly,  cook  until  slightly  thickened.  Add  cheese.  Stir 
until   cheese   is   melted.     Serve   imniediatelv. 


CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE   SOUP 

(Serves  6) 

\4    cup  butter  Vg    teaspoon  pepper 

^4    eup  flour  1      eup  vegetable  pulp  (celery,  spin- 

4      cups  milk  "*^''-    asparagus,    corn,    potato, 

peas,  or  any  desired  combination 
M    teaspoon  salt  „f  vegetables) 

Make  thin  white  sauce  with  hutter.  flour,  and  milk.     Add  salt,  pep- 
per, and  vegetable   pulp.     Reheat. 


Ill 


CREAM   POTATO  SOUP 

(Servo   6  I 

t  inediiini   potatoes,  riibeil  I  rup  veceiablc  wiilrr 

4  onion!ii,  slii*ecl  I  teasp«)oii   sail 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yh  teaspoon   pepper 

2  tablespoons   flour  1  teaspoon  parslev,  chopped 

3  Clips  milk,  scalded 

Boil  vegetables  in  water  to  cover  iiutil  tender.  Drain,  save  v\ater. 
Put  vegetables  through  sieve.  Make  thin  white  sauce  with  butter, 
flour,  milk,  and  vegetable  water.  Add  sieved  vegetables,  salt,  and 
pepper:  blend.     Reheat.     Sjirinkle  parsley  over  top. 


GREEN  BEAN  CHOWDER 

(Serves  4) 

2      cups  raw  potatoes,  diced  2      tablespoons  butler 

2      cups  cooked  green  or  waxed  Salt 

beans,  finely  cut  Pepper 

I      cup  whole  milk  Natural  American  Cheese,  ftraled 
1       tablespoon  onion,   minced 

Cook  potatoes  in  liquiil  drained  from  beans,  add  enough  water  to 
cover.  When  potatoes  are  tender  add  beans  and  milk.  Heat.  Fry 
onion  in  butter  until  brown.  Add  to  soup  mixture  just  before  serv- 
ing.    Serve  with  cheese   as   a  garnish. 


SALMON   BISQUE 

See  full  color  illuittration  on  page  110 

V2    cup  onions,  minced  V2    cup  light  cream 

^    cup  butter  4      cups  milk 

2       tablespoons  flour  Liquid  and  oil  of  salmon 

YVi    teaspoons  salt  1       pound  can  salmon,  flaked 

^4    teaspiMjn  pepper  Paprika 

%    teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Cook  onion  in  butter  5  minutes.  Add  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  mus- 
tard, stir  until  smooth.  Add  cream,  milk,  and  liquid  of  salmon. 
Cook  over  hot  water  until  slightly  thickened,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  salmon.     Reheat  and  serve:  sprinkle  each  serving  with  paprika. 


115 


k 


RAW  VEGETABLE  GROUP 

AT  LEFT:  this  group  of  vegetables  creates  an  iiiiiiiediate 
urge  to  transform  them  into  savory  table  dishes.  Nutri- 
tional experts  agree  that  fresh  or  properly  cooked  vegetables 
are  extremely  important  in  the  daily  diet.  Recipes  from 
pages   117   to   121. 


ASPARAGUS  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE 

(Serves  8) 

%    cup  buller  1      teaspoon  salt 

^4    cp  flour                ^  14    teaspoon  pepper 

2      cups  milk  2      pounds  asparagus,  rooked 

2      egg  Tolks.  beaten  Toast 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Make  white  sauce  with  l)utter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  egg  yolks,  lemon 
juice,  and  seasoning.  Arrange  asparagus  on  toast  and  pour  sauce 
over. 

BAKED  CARROTS   AND  ONIONS 
(Serves  6  to  8) 

6      medium  sized  carrots,  sliced  Butter 

6      large  onions,  sliced  1      cup  milk 

Salt  Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Pepper 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  carrots  and  onions  in  I)utlcrcd  casserole, 
season  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dot  with  butter.  Pour 
milk  over  contents,  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven    (350"    F.I    about   1   hour. 

CABBAGE   AND  HAM  WITH  CHEESE   SAUCE 

(Serves  8 ) 

3  tablespoons  butler  >4    teaspoon  ^orcestersliire  sauce 
3      tablespoons  flour                                      2      cups  iVatural  American  Cheese. 
IV2    cups  milk  grated 

34    teaspoon  salt  1       medium  head  cabbage 

Pepper  ^      thin  slices  pre-cooked  ham 

Paprika 

Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  seasonings, 
sauce,  and  cheese.  Remove  from  Are.  stir  until  cheese  is  melted. 
Cover  and  place  over  hot  water.  Cut  cabbage  into  eight  wedges.  Boil 
rapidly  for  8  to  10  minutes,  or  until  tender:  drain.  Pan-broil  ham. 
Arrange  calibage  and  ham  on  platter  with  ham  around  outside.  Pour 
cheese  sauce  over  all.  Add  a  dash  of  paprika.  Serve  with  stuffed 
tomatoes. 


117 


CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

8      niediuin   (small  potatoes)  }i    cup  water 

l-i    cup  butter  (or  Vi  cup  honey) 

1'2    cup  brown  sugar  (or  maple  syrup) 

Place  boiled  or  steamed  potatoes  in  a  shallow  pan,  pour  over  them 
the  sugar  and  water,  or  syrup  mixture.  Add  hits  of  butter.  Bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (450  F. )  for  15  minutes,  or  heat  over  low 
flame,  watching  carefully  and  turning  the  potatoes  when  brown. 
( Two  tablespoons  water  may  be  added  to  the  remaining  sticky  syrup, 
boil  up  and  pour  over  the  potatoes.) 

CHEESE  STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

(Serves  6) 

6  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  grated  onion 

2  cups  cooked  rice  1  teaspoon  salt 

^2  cup  milk  Vs  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  chopped  pimiento  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  tablespoon  minced  parsley  1  cup  diced  American  Cheese 

Cut  off  tops  of  peppers,  remove  seeds.  Simmer  in  boiling,  salted 
water  for  5  minutes.  Combine  remaining  ingredients.  Fill  peppers 
with  stuffing.  Place  upright  in  baking  pan;  add  I/2  cup  of  water. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°  F.I  for  30  minutes,  or  until  peppers 
are  tender. 

CHEESE  VEGETABLE  DISH 

14    cup  butter  2      teaspoons  salt 

4      tablespoons  flour  2      cups  potatoes,  cooked  and  diced 

2  cups  milk  1      cup  peas,  cooked 

2      cups  Natural  American  Cheese,        1      cup  carrots,  cooked  and  diced 
grated  1      onion,  minced 

Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  salt  and  cheese, 
stirring  until  the  cheese  melts.  Arrange  remaining  ingredients  in 
buttered  l)aking  dish  and  pour  sauce  over.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
(350     F.I    30  minutes. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

1      cup  corn   pulp  1      tablespoon   milk    (if  corn  is 
1      tablespoon  butter  very  dry) 

1  egg  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Flour  enough  to  make  still'  batter 

Cut  corn  quite  fine  from  cob;  add  flour,  egg,  milk,  and  seasoning. 
Cook  like  batter  cakes,  using  enough  fat  to  make  them  turn,  or  drop 
into  deep  fat  and  fry  like  doughnuts.  Serve  around  a  platter  of  fried 
chicken  or  other  meat. 

CORN  PUDDING 

2  cups  corn  2      tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1      tablespoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  3      eggs 

2      teaspoons  salt  Red  or  while  pepper  to  taste 

Cut  corn  as  usual  or  use  left  over.  Add  all  the  seasonings.  Beat 
eggs  together  until  light,  put  into  the  mixture,  pour  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm  like  a  custard. 
Place  dish  with  pudding  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  it  will  cook 
slower.     Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  cooked. 


118 


CORN  —  SWISS  STYLE 

(Serves  6) 


2 

Clips  rorn 

V* 

teaspoon   parslcj .   minced 

2 

tablespoons  flour 

M 

teasp<Min  oiiifin,  minced 

V* 

leuspoon  sail 

1/2 

cup  milk 

>4 

teaspoon  pepper 

Vz 

cup  Nalural   American  Cheese, 

M 

teaspoon  celery  s; 

•It 

grated 

2 

tablespoons  piniiento. 

chopped 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  cheese.  Pour  into  buttered  shallow 
baking;  dish,  sprinkle  with  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F. ) 
20  minutes. 

CREAMED  DRIED  BEEF  EN  TOMATOES 

(Serves  6) 

6  medium  tomatoes  '/6  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  butter  14  pound  dried  beef 

4  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  grated  cheese 

2  cups  milk 

Select  firm,  smooth  tomatoes  of  equal  size.  Cut  piece  from  stem 
end  of  each  tomato;  remove  the  centers  without  breaking  the  shells. 
Sprinkle  each  tomato  on  the  inside  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  4 
tablespoons  of  butter,  add  flour,  blend  well.  Add  milk  and  stir  con- 
stantlv  until  sauce  thickens;  add  grated  cheese.  Fold  in  the  shredded 
dried  beef  and  fill  tomato  shells.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs;  place 
in  buttered  liaking  dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  (375^  F.I 
for  35  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Tomato  pulp  may  be  used  in  mak- 
ing soap. 

DELMONICO  POTATOES 

2  tablespoons  butter  V2    cup  Natural  American  Cheese, 
\V2    tablespoons  flour  grated 

1  cup  milk  Piniiento.  chopped   (optional) 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  2      tablespoons  butter 

14  teaspoon  pepper  Salt 

1  quart  boiled  potatoes,  sliced  Pepper 

3  hard-cooked  eggs,  chopped  '4    cup  Natural  American  Cheese, 

grated 

Make  white  sauce  with  luitter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  salt  and  pepper. 
Arrange  layers  of  potatoes,  eggs,  cheese,  pimiento,  and  white  sauce  in 
buttered  baking  dish.  Dot  each  layer  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Cover  top  with  cheese.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350    F.I  until  done. 

GOLDEN  CAULIFLOWER 

(Serves  61 

1      medium  head  cauliflower  2      tablespoons  butter,  melted 

1      cup  raw  carrots,  diced  1       cup  rich  milk 

1-4    cup  onions,  chopped  1      cup  Natural  American  Cheese, 

Salt  grated 

Paprika 

Break  cauliflower  into  flowerettes.  Arrange  cauliflower  and  carrots 
in  buttered  casserole.  Cover  with  onion,  seasonings,  and  liutter. 
Pour  milk  over  contents.  Sprinkle  with  cheese.  Cover.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  (350^  F.  1   1  hour,  removing  cover  the  last  15  minutes. 


119 


POTATO  CHEESE  BALLS 

(Serves  4  to  6) 


graled 

1 

egg 

Salt 

2      cups  potatoes. 

mashed 

1 

tablespoon   milk 

Add  cheese  and  salt  to  j)otatoes,  mix  well,  make  into  round  Italls. 
Roll  in  liread  eriinibs.  then  in  egg  beaten  with  milk.  Brown  in  a 
hot  oven   (450     F. ). 

POTATO  CHEESE  PUFF 

(Serves  6) 

1      tablespoon  butter  ^^    teaspoon  salt 

I      tablespoon   dour  Dash  of  pepper 

\^2    eup  milk  2      cups  mashed  white  potatoes 

1      cup  grated  cheese  3      egg  yolks 

1  tablespoon  grated  onion  3      egg  whites 

Melt  hutter.  add  flour  and  blend.  Add  milk.  Cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  thick.  Add  cheese,  seasonings,  potatoes,  and  well  beaten 
egg  yolks.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Turn  into  buttered 
casserole:  bake  at  325     F.  for  40  to  60  minutes. 

SWEET  POTATO  BALL 

2  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes  ^j    teaspoon  salt 

2      tablespoons  butter,  melted  1      teaspoon  grated  orange  rind 

I4    teaspoon  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  1      teaspoon  juice  (orange) 

^4    teaspoon   paprika  1       egg,  beaten 

Add  all  ingredients  to  potatoes.  Mix  well.  Shape  into  ])alls.  Dip 
it!  lieaten  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  golden 
brown,  or  place  in  a  shallow  pan  and  pour  1  to  2  teaspoons  fat  over 
each  ])all:  then  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven  (450  F. )  until  golden 
brown  20  to  25  minutes.  Serve  witii  tomato  or  jjrown  sauce  if  de- 
sired. Balls  niav  hv  made  up  ahead  of  time  and  stored  in  the  re- 
frigerator ])eforc  frving. 

SWEET  POTATO  AND  ORANGE  CASSEROLE 

(Serves  6) 

5      large  sweet  potatoes  M  ciip  honev.  strained 

Y3   cup   brown   sugar  '4  cup   line  bread  crumbs 

14    cup  butler  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

2      unpeeled  oranges,  sliced  1  tablespoon  butter 
^4    cup  orange  juice 

Boil  potatoes  until  almost  tender,  peel  and  slice.  Arrange  a  layer  in 
Ituttercd  casserole,  sprinkle  with  lirown  sugar,  dot  with  butter,  cover 
with  a  layer  of  oranges.  Repeat  layers  until  all  ingredients  are  used. 
Pour  orange  juice  and  honey  over  contents.  Cover  with  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  brown  sugar.  Dot  with  butter.  Cover  casserole. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  (350  F.  I  1  hour.  Remove  cover  last 
15   miniztes. 


I2I» 


SWEET  POTATO  AND  AI»PLE  SCALLOP 

3       ^lt•lIilllll-^ize(l   polutoes  14    cup  brown  Mi^ar  or  lioiiey 

.'{       iiiecl  ill  Ill-sized  iipples  or  iiiapir  syrup 

3      liiblespoons   biiller  * ..    K-aspooii   sail 

Slice  apples  ami  potatoes.  I'lace  in  alternate  layers  in  a  liutlcied 
liaking  dish  with  bits  of  butter  and  sugar  or  honey.  Add  water  if 
necessary.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  tender  and  brown.  The 
potatoes  may  be  raw  or  cooked.      I*inea|)ple  may  be  substituted  for 

apple.  SWEET  POTATO  NUT  LOAF 

(Can  be  used  as  a  meat  substitute) 

3      cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes  1      cup  cliopped  nut  meats 

1  egg.  beaten  I4    cup  fat 

?4    cup  dry  bread  crumbs  1      teaspoon  salt 

14    teaspoon  pepper 

Mash  potatoes  while  hot:  add  to  them  ?3  of  nut  meats,  fat,  salt,  pep- 
per, half  of  crumbs,  and  beaten  egg.  Thoroughly  grease  the  mold 
and  sprinkle  thickly  with  remaining  crund)s  and  nut  meats  mixed, 
shaking  out  any  that  do  not  adhere  to  the  mold  or  pan.  Turn  in 
the  mixture,  pack  light.  Cover  top  with  remaining  crumbs  and  nuts. 
Bake  1/2  hour  in  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce  if  desired. 

SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE 

2  cups  cooked  mashed  sweet  1      teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 
potatoes  ^4    teaspoon  salt 

?4    cup  hot  milk  Few  grains  pepper 

'/3   cup  butter  .3      stiflly  beaten  egg  whites 

Add  hot  milk  and  butter  to  hot  mashed  j)otatoes;  beat  until  fluff  v. 
Add  lemon  rind.  salt,  and  pepper.  Fold  in  egg  whites  beaten  stiff 
but  not  drv.  Pile  lightlv  into  greased  casserole.  Bake  in  moderately 
hot  oven  (375-400"  F.  I  20  to  .30  minutes  or  until  puffy  and  browned. 
Varv  plain  souffle  bv  folding  in  1,4  f'l'  chopped  marshmallows.  nuts 
or  various  dried  fruits. 

TOMATO  AND  CORN  SCALLOP 

(Serves  8,1 

^4    cup  butler  2      cups  corn,  drained 

'4    cup  (lour  1      cup  canned  tomatoes,  drained 

1      cup  milk  ?4    cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

1      tablespoon  sugar  2      tablespoons  butter,  melted 
•  2    teaspoon  salt 

-Make  white  sauce  with  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  sugar  and  salt. 
Add  corn  and  tomatoes.  Pour  into  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover 
with    buttered    crumbs.      Bake    in    a    moderate    oven     (350      F. )     45 

""""'*''^  TOMATOES  BRISTOL 

(Serves  6) 
6      ripe  iinpeeled  lomaloes  1-2    cup  IVatiiral  American  Cheese, 

1  cup  cooked  lima  beans  grated 

^2    cup  fresh  bread  cubes  2      tablespoons  butter,  melted 

2  tablespoons  onions,  chopped  3      tablespoons  cream  or  milk 
2      tablespoons  parsley  1       egg.  beaten 

1/3    teaspoon  salt 

Scoop  out  centers  of  tomatoes.  Coml)ine  remaining  ingredients  and 
stufl'  tomatoes.  Fit  into  shallow  pan  and  add  ^  3  inch  boiling  water. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven   (350     F. )   30  minutes. 


121 


4V^   to  5  Lbs.   Occasionally 
I,  2,  and  214  Lbs. 


Jumbo,  11  to  12  Lbs. 


BRICK  — Originated  in  America — a  sweet 
curd  cheese,  usually  11  x  5'/2  "  2V2  inches. 
Light  straw  color;  moist,  soft.  Mild  up 
to  8  weeks;  well-cured  afterward  with  a 
more  pronounced  flavor.  Excellent  for 
sandwiches. 


MUENSTER— A    soft,   fast-curing    cheese, 
about     7x4^/4     inches.      Light    tan    color;/  f 
outside  is  brown  or  red.    Mild  flavor  when 
fresh;      pronounced      when      cured      at      2.    . 
months.      Ideal    sandwich    spread. 


y.  Lb. 


^b 


LIMBURGER— Soft  textured  with  dis- 
tinctive flavor;  either  mild  or  pronounced. 
Large  size,  5I/2  x  5V2  "  2'4  inches.  Sand- 
wich spread  and  for  crackers,  or  serve 
with    potatoes    boiled    in    jackets. 


IM;   Lbs. 


CAMEMBERT  —  About  exiy,  inches. 
Grayish  outside;  creamy,  waxy  color  in- 
side— almost  fluid  when  fully  cured.  For 
desserts,    salads,    crackers. 


^ 


BLUE     VEII\  —     American      version      of 
Roquefort  —  piquant    flavor;    soft    texture, 
about    6'/4x3^4    inches.      White,    streaked 
with   blue,   medium-cured   in   2    months   or   " 
more.      After-dinner    delicac\. 


2   Lbs. 


.] 


BRIE — About   6x21/4   inches.     Somewha 
similar    to    Camembert.      Soft,   mild    when 
fresh;   distinctive   flavor  when  cured.     For 
table,    salads,    desserts,    crackers.  ' 


EDAM  —  Red  coated,  ball-shape,  firm, 
slightly  crumbly,  4'/^  to  6  inches  in  diam- 
eter. Flavor  develops  with  aging — 3  weeks 
to  3  months.  For  appetizers,  desserts, 
salads,  or  grated  for  flavoring.  Softer  types 
have  body,  texture,  and  flavor  similar  to 
good    brick    cheese. 


122 


BABY  GOUDA      Red   coated,  bun-shaped.  ' 
special    small    size,   about   31,4  "l'/^    inches. 
Similar   to    soft    type   Edam   and   has   same 
uses.      Inside    color   is   golden. 


IS  O  R   T  H 


C  A   R  O  L  I  IS 


PUOVOLONCiNNl 
2'/i   Lbs.,   each 


PROVOLETTE    CACIOCAVALLO 
51/^   Lb:*.,   each  2   Lbs.,  each 


'I'he  various  Italian  shapes  ooiiie  from  hand  molding  of  the  riird.  Many  of  them  are  cured 
|iy  smoking  so  ihey  have  a  sally,  tangy  flavor.  These  illustrations  are  in  proportion  to  each 
lither.   but    not    in   proportion   to    illustrations    on    other   pages. 

I 
»*rort>l<nii,  Prov)il€>nciiini,  fruvolette,  Salame,  Caciocavallo are  all  made  by  practically  the 

lame  methods,  the  only   difference  being   in  the  shapes.     Any   difference   in   flavor,  body,  and 

—exture  is  due    to  the  age  of  the  cheese.     These  varieties  of  cheese  excel   for  table  use  when 

Tomparatively  fresh.     As  they   become  fully   cured   they  are  used  for  flavoring  such   foods  as 

J^oups   and   salads.     The   curing   time    of   these   styles   ranges   from   two    months    to    two    years. 

J  \ll  styles  come  in  pairs  and,  with  the  exception   of  the  Caciocavallo,  are  hung   in  rope  nets. 

I  The  Caciocavallo  is  hung  by  a  small  rope  around  its  neck  giving  the  upper  part  of  the  cheese 

'omewhat  the  appearance   of  a  Jiorse's  head  and   neck. 


t    Lb.,   each 


3^2  inches 
Light  tan 


PEAR  CHEESE 
(Italian  name 
Scarmorze) — Comes 
in  pairs,  each  about 

in  diameter  and  5  inches  high. 

n  color;   is  best  when  sliced  y^ 


inch  thick  crossways  and  fried  in  olive  oil. 


APPLE  CHEESE— 

%  Lb.  li      \  Shaped    like    apple; 

colored     red,     semi- 
firm  texture.  A  quick- 
curing    type    used    for    general    table    pur- 
poses.     PEAR    and    APPLE    varieties    are 
covered    with    cellophane. 


Lbs. 


Q 


GORGONZOLA— 

Italian  version  of 
Roquefort  type.  In 
I  this  country  Gorgonzola  is  made  in  the 
1    same   type   and   shape   as   Blue   Vein. 


PARMESAN  is  about 
20  inches  in  diam- 
eter and  6  inches 
high,  cured  from  one  to  four  years,  is 
firm,  dry;  the  surface  is  colored  black; 
excellent    for    grating. 


ROMANO  is  about 
10  inches  in  diame- 
ter and  7  to  9  inches 
high,  colored  black, 
outside;  inside,  light 
yellow  with  greenish  tinge.  Cured  similar 
to  Parmesan;   used  for  same  purposes. 


ASIAGO  is  not  quite 
as  hard  and  dry  as 
Parmesan  and  Ro- 
mano; occasionally 
used  as  a  table  cheese  while  comparatively 
fresh.  Golden  surface  color,  but  when 
fully  cured  becomes  black  and  is  then 
superior    for    grating. 


3 
Lbs. 


RICOTTA  is  a  small 
cheese  from  5  to  6 
inches  in  diameter 
and  about  i  inches 
in  height,  made  from  skimniilk  and  the 
albumin  in  whey.  Is  pure  white  with  a 
very    saltv    taste. 


Q 


PRIMOST   (^aT. 
1   Lb.     ^'=^        1  tFPgian)  —   Usually 

^__^/  put     up     in     pound 

packattes,  is  a  brown- 
ish colored  product,  has  a  unique  sweetish 
taste,  especially  line  for  a  spread.  Primost 
is   a    Scandinavian   favorite. 


Department    of    Agriculture 


12.^ 


#*■    I* 


''Hps", 


/ 


■:•.  JV 


NAMES  OF 

CHEESES 

ILLl  STRATED 

1.  Parmesan 

2.  Salanie 

3.  Cheddar  or 
American 

4.  Swiss 

5.  Mueiister 

6.  Brick 

7.  Provoloncinni 

8.  Muenster 

9.  American 
10    II).    loaf 

10.  Aged  Brick 

11.  Cream  Cheese 

12.  Cottage  Cheese 

13.  Limburger 

14.  Edam 

15.  Blue  Vein 

16.  Gouda 

17.  Camembert 

18.  Limburger 


HOW  TO  HANDLE  CHEESE 


1.  Keep  cheese  in  the  re- 
frigerator. 

2.  Cover  cut  surfaces  of 
cheese  tightly  with  waxed 
paper  —  or  keep  in  cov- 
ered dishes. 

3.  Cooking  —  aged  cheese 
(over   6   months)    is   pre- 


ferred: it  provides  a 
richer  flavor,  melts  and 
blends  well. 

4.  Caution  —  cheese  dishes 
should  l)e  cooked  at  low 
temperatures.  Grated  or 
shredded  cheese  melts 
quickly. 


125 


ALPHABETICAL     INDEX 


Page 

I^TRODlC.TIO^ 

The  Story  of  the  Book 3  ;o  7 

VIM'KTIZF,RS 

Burning    Bush     9 

Cheese    and    Baron    Canape 10 

Cheese    and    Ham    Appetizers 11 

Cheese    Appetizers     0 

Cheese    Cream    Puffs 1(1 

Cheese    Dreams    10 

Cheese    Straws     10 

Cottage    Cheese    Canape 11 

Cottage    Cheese    Nuts 11 

Cottage    (Cheese    Snacks 11 

Sail    Boat    Hors    D'Oeuvres 11 

lU.VEK  a<;es 

Banana    Milk    Fluff 13 

Chocolate    Mint    Flip 13 

Frosted     Pea.h     Drink 13 

Grape  Shake    13 

Hot    Peppermint    Chocolate 14 

Hot    Pineapple    Eggnog 14 

Ice   Cream   Chocolate   Punch 15 

Orange    Eggnog     14 

Prune    Milk    Shake 15 

Strawherry     Milk    Shake 15 

BREADS 
Hot    •    Yeast    •    Breakfast  Cakes 


Apple    Cheese    Sandwich    Bread. 

Apple    Fritters     

Apple    Muffins    . .    

Applesauce    Rolls     

Banana    Bread    

Butterliorns      

Butterscotch     Bread     

Cheese   and   Rice   Fritters 

Cheese-Bacon   Waffles    

Cheese    Biscuits    

Cheese    Biscuit    Rolls 

Cheese    Bread     

Cheese    Popo\"ers     

Cheese    Waffles     

Cinnamon   Ball   Coffee   Cake.... 

Cocoa    Waffles     

Cornmeal    Waffles    

Crumh    Cake     

Filled     Coffee    Cake 

Fruil     l^ut     Bread 

(dinger    Bread    

(>raham    Cracker    Nut    Bread..,. 

Graham    Nut    Bread 

Grapenut   Bread   

Griddle    Cakes    

Hot    Cross    Buns 

Hush    Puppies     

Juicy    Cinnamon    Rolls.    

Kaft'ee    Kuclien     

Maple    Syrup    Muffins 

Oatmeal    Muffins     


17 
17 
17 
18 
18 
18 
18 
19 
31 
20 
20 
19 
20 
20 
21 
21 
21 
21 
22 
22 
22 
23 
23 
23 
23 
24 
24 
24 
25 
26 
26 


Page 

Orange-Raisin    Muffins     26 

Orange    Rolls    27 

Pastry    Rolls    27 

Peanut    Quick    Bread 28 

Potato    Pancakes    27 

Prune    Bread     27 

Quick    Coffee    Cake 28 

Raised    Muffins    29 

Sour   Milk   Ginger    Bread 29 

Sour   Milk    Pancakes 29 


Southern    Corn    Bread. 

Spoon   Corn    Bread 

Tea   Ring    

Waffles    I    

Waffles    H     

Whipped     Cream     Waffles.... 
Whole   Wheat   Griddle    Cakes 


29 
30 
30 
31 
31 
31 
31 


CAKES 

Cookies  and  Frostings 

Applesauce    Cake    33 

.Applesauce    Cookies    33 

Baked   French    Breakfast    Doughnuts..  33 

Banana    Cake    34 

Banana    Drop    Cookies 34 

Blitz   Torte    34 

Brownies     35 

Butter    Cake    35 

Buttermilk    Doughnuts   35 

Buttermilk    Torte    35 

Butterscotch    Refrigerator    Cookies...  36 

Chocolate   Cream   Cake 37 

Chocolate    Drop    Cookies 37 

Chocolate   Potato    Cake 37 

Chocolate    Sponge    Cake 36 

Cottage    Cheese    Cake 38 

Cottage    Cheese    Refrigerator    Cookies.  38 

Cottage    Cheese    Torte 38 

Cream     Doughnuts     39 

Fruit   Center   Cheese  Dainties. 

Fruit    Cookies   

Gold    Cake     

Golden    Glow    Cake 

Honey    Spice    Cake. 


...  39 
...  40 
...  39 
...  40 
...   40 

Hot   Milk   Sponge   Cake 41 

Lazy    Daisy    Cake 41 

Nut    Cake   42 

Nut    Devil's   Food 42 

Nut    Refrigerator    Cookies 42 

Oatmeal    Cookies    42 

Orange  and   Date   Cake 43 

One-Two-Three-Four    Cake    43 

Peanut   Butter   Cake 43 

Peanut  Ice  Box  Cookies 43 

Pecan    Delights   44 

Polish    Doughnuts    44 

Potato    Doughnuts     44 

Pound    Cake    45 

Praline    Cookies     44 

Pumpkin    Cake     45 

Refrigerator    Cheese    Cake 46 


126 


Paw 

Rolli'il    (".iiiptT    Cookies Ui 

Siilird    I'.MiHiI    Caki' t() 

SiiiKl    Ih.h-    16 

Srotih    Sliiirl    Bread 17 

Sofi    (;inf;ir    Cookies 47 

Sor};liiiiii    (iunkii's     47 

Sour    Cream    Cake 47 

Sour   Oeani   Spice  Cake 47 

Spice    Cake    48 

Spiced    l)e\  il's    Food 48 

Sprilz    Bakelse    48 

Sugar    (iookies    48 

Sunshine   Butter   Cake 48 

Unside    Down    Cake i) 

Whipped    Cream    Cake 49 

CHKKSF, 
Main    Dishes 

Armenian    Beaurack    51 

Baked  Clieese  and  Shrimp  Custard...  51 

Cheese    Fondue    52 

Cheese   French   Toast 52 

Cheese-Ham    Medley    52 

Cheese    Ring    .' 52 

Cornmeal    Souffle    53 

Macaroni   with   Cheese  and   Olive 

Sauce      53 

Macaroni   with   Corned   Beef 53 

Noodles    Romanoff    53 

Rice   Loaf   with   Mu^hroom   Sauce....  54 

Rice   Mold,-    54 

Savory    Sw  iss    Eggs 55 

Spaghetti    De  Luxe    55 

(ONFFrXION.S 

Apricot    Candy   Roll 57 

Butter    Fudge    57 

Caramels     58 

English    Toffee    57 

Light    Opera    Creams 58 

Peanut    ISrittle    58 

Peanut    Butter   Fudge 59 

Pecan    Crunch     59 

Penoche     59 

Sour  Cream   Fudge 59 

KE.S.SKRTS 
Fillings 

Apricot    Manhattan    Mousse ()1 

Baked  Peach   Pudding 61 

Blackberr\    Rounds   with   Ice  Cream..    62 

Butterscotch    Cream    Puff- 62 

Butterscotch   Fluff    61 

Butterscotch    Graham    Cracker   Pud- 
ding        63 

Caramel    Ice    Cream 63 

Caramelled    Apples    63 

Cheese    Custard    63 

Chocolate    Ice    Box    Cake 61 

Chocolate     Ice    Cream 64 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream   in   Wafer   Cups.    65 

Chocolate    Mint    Ice    Cream 65 

Chocolate   Peppermint   Pudding 65 

Christina?    Pudding     66 

Coconut    Souffle    67 


P-iic 

Cottage    Cheese    Custard 67 

Cotlag**   (Cheese    Ice    (^ream 66 

Cottagi'    Cli.-e-c    Pu<liliiig 67 

Custard    Bread    Piidtling 68 

Down    Fast    Rii-c    Pudding 67 

Fggnofi    Ice    Cream 68 

Fille.l    Dcss.'rt    Coffee   Cake 69 

Honey    Apple    Crisp ...  71) 

Honey    Custard 7(1 

Ice   Cream    Nut    Roll 7(1 

Ice  Cream   Sundae  Cake 70 

Lemon    Cream    Rice    Pudding "I 

Lemon    Pud<ling     70 

Libert)    Plum    Pudding 7i 

Make-Your-Own-Sundae    Tray    71 

Old-Fashioned    Strawberry    Shortcake.  72 

Orange    Cream    Sherbet 7.3 

Orange    Pudding     72 

Peach    (h'eam    Pudding 73 

Peach    Sundae    Cake 73 

Peppermint    Ice    Cream 73 

Peppermint    Tapioca    Cream 73 

Pineapple   Tapioca    Cream 73 

Princess    Custard    71 

Prune    Custard    74 

Prunella    Pudding    74 

Pumpkin    Ice    Cream 74 

Rice    Ba\arian     75 

Southern   Ice   Cream   Sundae 75 

Spiced    Crumb    Pudding 75 

Surprise  Sour   Cream  Pudding 75 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding 75 

Ml    \1 
Fish   •   Fowl   •    Eggs 

Barbecued    Chicken    77 

Braised   Liver    77 

Buttermilk    Ham    Souffle 77 

Casserole   of    Sea    Pood 78 

Cheese    Ham    Casserole 78 

Cheese    Puffit    78 

Cheese    Salmon    Loaf 78 

Chicken    Stew    with    Onions 79 

Chicken    Souffle    79 

Cottage  Cheese  and   Salmon  Loaf...  79 

Crabmeat    Delight    80 

English   Laud)   Chops 30 

Escalloped   Tuna    81 

Huntington   Chic-ken    81 

Rice.   Tuna    Fish,   and   Cheese   Casse- 
role      81 

Roast   Turkey    82 

Salmon   and    Cheese    Casserole 82 

Salmon    Roly    Poly 83 

Shrimp   and    Rice   en    Casserole 83 

Shrimp    Fondue    83 

Smothered    Chickens,   Sour   Cream 

Sauce    82 

PM.S    •    P\'^Tin 

Applesauce    Custard    Filling 85 

Blackberry  or  Dewberry  Pie 85 

Chocolate    Chip    Custard    Pie 85 

Chocolate    Layer    Pie 86 

Coconut    Cream   Pie 86 


[ 


12^ 


Page 

Cottage    Cheese    Apple    Pie 86 

Cottage   Cheese  Cherry   Pie 87 

Date    Cream    Pie 87 

Deep   Dish   Peach   Pie 87 

Eggiiog  Pie  in  Graham   Cracker  Shell  88 

Lemon   Cheese  Pie 88 

Mammy's   Fried   Pies 88 

Orange    Pumpkin    Pie 89 

Peach    Crumble   Pie 89 

Pecan    Pie    89 

Pecan    Pumpkin    Pie 89 

Pumpkin   Chiffon   Pie  with   Ginger- 
snap    Crust    90 

Raisin    Crumb    Pie 90 

Sour   Cream   Raisin  Pie 91 

Sweet    Potato    Pie 91 

Toasted   Coconut   Mousse   Pie 91 

Washington   Cream  Pie 91 

^M.ADS 

Salad  Dressings  and  Accompaniments 

Apple    Surprise    Mold 93 

Apricot    Cottage    Cheese   Salad 93 

Argyle    Salad    Dressing 93 

Buttercup   Dressing  for   Fruit   Salad..   94 

Cheese  and   Pea   Salad 91 

Cheese   Marbles    95 

Cottage  Cheese  and  Vegetable   Salad.   95 
Cottage   Cheese   in   Tomato   Aspic...   95 

Cottage    Cheese    Salad    Dressing 96 

Cottage    Cheese    Salad    Mold 95 

Cottage  Cheese  Salmon  .Salad 96 

Cream   Dressing   (or   Cole   Slaw 96 

Cream   Dressing   for   Fruit   Salads.    ..   96 

Creamy    Salad 96 

Cucumber    Cottage    Cheese    Salad....   97 

Dairy    Lunch   Plale 97 

Date-Nut    Salad     97 

Egg  and  Peanut  Salad  with  Celery...   97 
Fresh    Peach    and    Cottage    Cheese 

Salad     97 

Fresh    Vegetable   and    Cheese    Salad..   98 

Frosted   Melon    Mold 98 

Frozen    Fruit    Salad 99 

Grape    Cluster    Salad 98 

Honey    Salad    Dressing 99 

Jellied    Cheese    Salad 99 

Magic    Mayonnaise    99 

Molded   Cottage   Cheese  and   Pine- 
apple   .Salad    99 

Oak    Park    Salad    Dressing 100 

Salad    Dressing   I   100 

Salad   Dressing   II 100 

Sour    Cream    Dressing    I      100 

Sour    Cream    Dressing    II   100 

Sour    Cream    Dressing    III 100 

Thousand   Island   Dressing 100 

Tomato    Ring    Salad 101 

■>\M)\\  It  IIKS 

.Vmerican    Dairy    .Sandwich 103 

Broiled    Cheese    Sandwich 103 

Cheese-Ham    Sandwich    Filling 103 

Cheese    Rolls 103 

Fireside   Snacks    104 


Honey    Butter    104 

Nipp;.    Cheese    Sandwich    Fillins 104 

Peanut    Butler-Hon'ev    Sapdwich 

Filling     :'..... ,  .104 

Sandwich    Loaf    104 

.Shrimp    Sandwiches     105 

Spanish    .Sandwich    Filling",  o.  ...........  105 

Tasty    Mock    Chicken    Sandwiches ....  105 

Toasted    Cheese    Pinwheels 105 

'_S'AUCES 
and   Gravies. 

Bechamel    .Sauce    107 

Brown    Butter    Sauce 107 

Butler    Orange    Fluff 107 

Cheese    Sauce    107 

Cider    Sauce    108 

Foamy    Hard    Sauce 108 

Grapejuice    Sauce    109 

Horseradish    Sauce — I      109 

Horseradish    Sauce— II     109 

Lemon    "Cream"    Sauce 109 

Sour    Cream    Sauce 109 

Steak    Sauce    109 

SOUPS 

Bean    Chowder    Ill 

Brunswick    Stew    Ill 

Cheese  Soup  with  Rice Ill 

Corn    Bis«|ue    112 

Cream   of   Carrol   Chowder 112 

Cream   of  Carrot   Soup  with   Cheese..  112 

Cream   of   Cheese   Soup 112 

Cream  of  Corn  and  Oyster  Soup 112 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 113 

Cream   of  Olive  and   Celery  Soup.... 113 

Cream    of    Onion    .Soup 114 

Cream   of   Pea   Soup 114 

Cream   of  Peanut   Butter   Soup 114 

Cream   of   Vegetable   Soup 114 

Cream    Potato    Soup 115 

Green    Bean    Chowder 115 

Salmon    Bisque    115 

Asparagus   with    Lemon   Juice 117 

Baked    Carrots    -^wuX    Onions. 117 

Cabbage    and    Ham    with    Cheese 

Sauce     117 

Candied   Sweet   Potatoes 118 

Cheese   Stuffed  Green   Peppers 118 

Cheese    Vegetable    Dish 118 

Corn    Fritters    118 

Corn    Pudding    118 

Corn-Swiss    Style     119 

Creamed   Dried   Beef   in   Tomatoes.  .  .119 

Dehnonico     Potatoes     119 

Golden    Cauliflower     119 

Potato    Cheese     Balls 120 

Potato    Cheese    Puff 120 

.Sweet   Potato  and   Apple  Scallop 121 

Sweel    Potato  and   Orange   Casserole.  .  120 

Sweet    Polalo    Ball 120 

Sweet   Potato   Nut   Loaf 121 

Sweet   Potato   Souffle 121 

Tomato   and   Corn   Scallop 121 

Tomatoes    Bristol    121 


128 


PRINTED    IN    U.  S.  or    A 

PLASTIC     BIN'DiNG MILWAUKEE 

U.S.    PATCNT    NO.  ia702a9 


^I,^!^„^,I,^?,^"^°P  NORTH  CAROLINA 


Apr26'60 

Aprl6'63 
MAR  3  1  1967 


3  3091  00739  0321 


i^iliiiiiilnfiil 


DATE  DUE 


0CT2_4jl77 


OCT  2  5 


911 


MAR  1  '^ 


1979. 


BEC29JI80 


'JUN.  0  3  1^^ 


my  n 


JUL  \  4  200B 


CAYLORD 


TED  IN  U    S    J 


