A  FEW  RECIPES 


BY 

MONS.  ESCOFFIER, 

OF  THE 

CARLTON  HOTEL,  LONDON. 


ESCOFFIER  (1907)  LIMITED, 

- 6,  Ridgmount  Street,  - 

Tottenham  Court  Road,  London,  W.C. 


COOKERY  AT  HOME. 


IntroJmrthnt. 


OR  many  years  it  has  been  my 
constant  aim  so  to  simplify  the 
methods  of  high-class  cookery  as 
to  produce  the  most  perfect  results 
with  the  least  expenditure  of 
money  and  time. 

To  bring  the  results  of  my  work 
within  the  reach  of  all,  I  have  arranged  for  the 
preparation  under  my  personal  supervision  of  a  series 
of  Soups  and  Sauces  in  preserved  form. 

This  series  contains  the  entire  range  of  those 
elementary  combinations  which  form  the  basis  and 
whole  secret  of  French  Cookery.  Upon  the  bottle  or 
tin  of  each  preserve  in  the  series  are  instructions  for 
use  that  will  render  simple  the  preparation  of  a  number 
of  recherche  dishes  hitherto  considered  too  complicated 
for  preparation  at  home.  The  most  unpretentious  of 
cooks  will  thus  be  enabled  to  prepare  delicacies  calcu¬ 
lated  pleasurably  to  excite  the  most  refined  and  dainty 
palate. 

A  short  description  is  given  in  the  following  pages  of 
each  of  these  preparations,  together  with  recipes  for 
some  of  the  best-known  dishes  for  which  they  can  be 
used. 

Should  greater  variety  be  desired,  my  recently 
published  “  Guide  to  Modern  Cookery  ”  (London, 
Heinemann  &  Co.)  will  provide  an  ample  field  of 
choice. 


3 


ESCOFFIER  SOUPS. 

Pot-au-Feu. 

Ox  Tail. 

Bortsch. 

Soup  a  la  Reine. 

Creme  de  Tomate. 

Creme  de  Tomate  au  Ri z. 

Soup  au  Riz  a  l’Orientale. 

Soup  a  la  Cardinal. 

POT-AU-FEU. 

This  rustic  name,  as  old  as  the  French  language, 
stands  for  the  traditional  preparation  which  is  the 
complete  dinner  of  the  soldier  and  peasant  and  a 
delicacy  none  the  less  appreciated  by  the  well-to-do 
classes  of  France.  It  can  truly  be  said  that  the 
appetising  odour  of  Pot-au-Feu  may  be  followed  un¬ 
interruptedly  from  the  lowliest  cottage  to  the  proudest 
mansion  of  the  land. 

Pot-au-Feu  is  the  basis  of  the  bourgeoise  Crohte-au- 
Pot  and  of  all  other  meat  soups,  the  finer  and  the  most 
delicate  consommes  being  obtained  from  it  by  the 
exercise  of  special  skill  and  care.  As  “Petite  Marmite” 
we  see  it  nowadays  upon  the  richest  tables,  just  as  in 
the  past  it  was  the  “  Poule-au-Pot  ”  of  Henri  Quatre 
and  the  “  Poule-au-Riz  ”  of  Louis-Philippe. 

In  spite,  however,  of  the  simple  composition  of  the 
Pot-au-Feu,  its  preparation  is  by  no  means  always 
easy  in  small  households,  needing  as  it  does  constant 


4 


attention  during  many  hours,  whilst  in  a  variety  of 
circumstances,  such  as  travelling,  hunting,  on  exploring 
expeditions,  &c.,  &c.,  the  materials  are  not  available. 

This  Escoffier  preparation,  in  which  the  best  mat¬ 
erials  and  skill  have  been  combined,  supplies  the 
deficiency. 

OX  TAIL. 

This  soup,  in  the  preparation  of  which  old  Marsala 
Wine  has  been  used,  is  valued  for  its  stimulating  and 
strengthening  qualities. 

To  prepare. — Pour  the  contents  of  the  bottle  or  tin 
into  a  saucepan,  warm  just  up  to  boiling  point  and 
serve  immediately. 

All  the  following  soups  are  prepared  in  the  same 
manner. 

Julienne  au  Riz. 

Consomme  Printanier. 

Julienne  au  Consomme. 

Potage  au  Riz  a  la  Portugaise. 

Potage  au  Macaroni  a  la  Napolitaine. 

SOUP  BORTSCH. 

A  very  tasty  soup,  much  favoured  in  Russia  and 
Poland,  where  it  is  largely  used  on  account  of  its 
nutritive  qualities.  It  is  usual  to  thicken  the  soup  by 
adding,  at  the  moment  of  serving,  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
sour  cream,  but,  in  view  of  differences  of  climate  it  is 
preferable  to  serve  the  cream  separately,  so  that  each 
may  add  it  in  the  plate. 


5 


To  Prepare. — Empty  the  contents  of  the  bottle  or  tin 
into  a  saucepan,  add  an  equal  quantitj^  of  water,  warm 
just  up  to  boiling  point,  and  then  serve  immediately 
accompanied  by  a  sauce-boat  of  sour  cream. 

SOUP  A  LA  REINE  (THICK). 

This  soup  is  made  from  fowl  and  pearl  barley  only, 
and  forms  a  nourishing  and  refreshing  food,  which  is 
easy  of  digestion.  Owing  to  these  qualities,  it  will  be 
found  suitable  even  for  delicate  children,  the  aged,  the 
convalescent,  and  nursing  mothers.  It  is  most  useful 
in  active  campaigning,  and  invaluable  to  yachting, 
hunting,  and  exploring  parties,  since  in  case  of  need 
it  can  be  eaten  cold.  In  fact,  as  a  cold  dish  it  will  be 
found  very  pleasant  during  the  heat  of  summer. 

To  Prepare  —Pour  the  contents  of  the  bottle  or  tin 
into  a  saucepan,  and  heat  over  a  slow  fire.  If  the 
soup  is  too  thick,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  if 
possible  some  good  milk  or  cream,  boiling  hot,  it  will 
then  be  in  perfect  condition — or,  the  bottle  or  tin, 
without  being  opened,  may  simply  be  placed  in  a 
saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  when  this  has  been 
brought  to  the  boil,  the  tin  can  be  opened  and  the 
soup  served  immediately. 

CREME  DE  TOM  ATE  (THICK). 

This  savoury  soup  is  very  rich  in  cream,  and  is  thus 
both  nourishing  and  refreshing, 

To  Prepare. — Pour  the  contents  of  the  bottle  or  tin 
into  a  saucepan,  warm  up  to  boiling  point  and  serve 
immediately.  A  few  small  squares  of  bread  fried  in 
butter  may  be  added. 


CREME  DE  TOM  ATE  AU  RIZ  (THICK). 

This  is  a  very  nourishing  soup,  rich  in  cream,  and 
thus  most  useful  to  yachting  or  exploring  parties, 
expeditions,  &c. 

To  prepare. — Pour  the  contents  into  a  saucepan, 
bring  to  boiling  point,  and  serve  immediately.  Should 
the  soup  be  too  thick,  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  water, 
milk,  or  stock  may  be  added. 

SOUP  AU  RIZ  A  L’ORIENTALE  (THICK). 

This  soup  will  be  most  appreciated  by  people  who 
have  lived  in  hot  countries.  It  is  prepared  in  the 
same  way  and  from  the  same  material  as  the  Soup 
a  la  Reine,  with  the  addition  of  a  choice  Indian  curry 
powder  to  give  its  distinctive  character  and  flavour, 

SOUP  A  LA  CARDINAL. 

This  soup  has  a  special  and  piquant  flavour,  and 
possesses  the  same  nutritive  qualities  as  the  Soup  4 
la  Reine. 

The  preparation  is  the  same  as  that  of  the  Soup  a 
la  Reine,  and  from  the  same  materials,  with  the  addition 
of  some  good  Paprika,  which  gives  the  soup  its 
distinctive  and  subtly  attractive  flavour,  and  bright 
appearance. 


7 


ESCOFFIER  RECIPES. 

PRAWNS  A  LA  SICILIENNE. 

These  can  be  served  either  hot  or  cold. 

To  prepare  (hot),  place  the  bottle  in  a  saucepan  of 
cold  water,  bring  to  the  boil  for  two  minutes,  when 
the  bottle  can  be  taken  out  and  opened  at  thejnoment 
of  serving ;  if  preferred,  the  contents  of  the  bottle 
may  be  turned  out  cold  and  heated  in  a  saucepan. 

Rice  “  en  pilaw  ”  or  a  la  Sicilienne  with  Parmesan 
cheese  may  be  served  with  the  prawns.  They  may 
also  be  mixed  with  macaroni  cooked  a  la  Napolitaine 
with  butter  and  cheese,  and  the  preparation  will  make 
an  excellent  sauce  for  all  kinds  of  boiled  fish  and 
potatoes. 

Note. — The  contents  of  the  bottle  should  not  be 
kept  more  than  24  hours  after  it  is  opened. 

PRAWNS  A  L’ORIENTALE. 

This  preparation,  which  is  "entirely  novel,  can  be 
served  either  hot  or  cold. 

To  prepare  (hot),  place  the  bottle  in  a  saucepan 
of  cold  water  and  bring  to  the  boil  for  two  minutes, 
when  the  bottle  can  be  taken  out  and  opened  at 
the  moment  of  serving ;  if  preferred,  the  contents 
of  the  bottle  may  be  turned  out  cold  and  heated  in 
a  saucepan. 

8 


A  very  appetising  way  of  serving  is  with  rice  cooked 
a  la  Creole  or  “en  pilaw,”  or  with  potatoes  cooked 
in  an  oven  or  boiled.  The  preparation  may  also  be 
served  as  a  sauce  or  adjunct  to  boiled  fish,  such  as 
sole,  turbot,  brill,  cod,  &c. 

Served  cold  the  preparation  makes  an  excellent 
hors-d’oeuvre. 

Note. — The  contents  of  the  bottle  should  not  be 
kept  more  than  24  hours  after  it  is  opened. 

POTATOES  EN  SURPRISE. 

Take  the  same  number  of  medium-sized  potatoes  as 
there  are  persons  to  be  served,  roast  them  in  the  oven 
in  their  jackets  until  quite  floury.  Cut  a  slice  off  the 
flat  side  of  each  potato,  remove  two-thirds  of  the  floury 
contents  and  fry  this  with  butter.  Meantime,  heat  up 
sufficient  prawns  a  l’Orientale,  or  prawns  a  la  Sicili- 
enne,  to  fill  three-quarters  of  the  space  left  in  the 
potato  jackets,  filling  the  remainder  with  the  potato 
fried  in  butter,  as  above.  Then  powder  the  surface 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  sprinkle  with  melted 
butter,  brown  in  the  oven  or  with  a  salamander,  and 
serve.  This  is  an  excellent  dish  for  luncheon,  simple 
and  economical  to  prepare. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  CARLTON. 

Divide  a  fresh  lobster  in  halves  by  cutting  length¬ 
wise,  gently  break  the  shell  of  the  claws,  and  remove 
the  small  bag,  which  will  be  found  near  the  head, 


9 


containing  a  gritty  substance.  Put  the  intestines  and 
coral  on  a  plate  and  crush  them  with  a  fork ;  add  to 
them  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper, 
a  dessertspoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  tarragon, 
and  chervil,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
Sauce  Diable,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Grill  the  lobster 
and  place  it  on  its  shell  upon  an  oblong  silver  dish, 
cover  the  fish  with  the  preparation  made  with  the 
intestines,  pouring  the  above  sauce  over  it.  Pour  two 
glasses  of  fine  brandy  round  the  lobster,  and  set  alight 
when  serving. 


ESCOFFIER  BASIC  SAUCES. 

Every  kind  of  sauce,  and  hundreds  of  the  most 
delicious  dishes  in  the  highest  class  of  modern  cookery, 
can  be  made  from  these  basic  preparations,  without  any 
special  skill  and  with  the  simplest  kitchen  appliances. 
The  basic  or  primary  sauces  are  : — 

Escoffier  Sauce  Espagnole. 

Escoffier  Sauce  Madere. 

Escoffier  Sauce  Chasseur. 

Escoffier  Sauce  Americaine. 

Escoffier  Catalane  Sauce. 

Escoffier  Tyrolienne  Sauce. 

Escoffier  Provenijale  Sauce. 

Escoffier  Portugaise  Sauce. 

Escoffier  Veloute  Sauce. 

Each  bottle  gives  plain  directions  for  one  or  more 
of  the  principal  dishes  to  be  made  with  its  contents. 

With  this  set  in  the  house  a  recherchS  meal  can 
always  be  prepared  at  an  hour’s  notice. 


SAUCE  ESPAGNOLE. 

This  is  the  name  given  in  cookery  to  the  concen¬ 
trated  and  thickened  gravy  which  is  the  basis  of  all 
brown  sauces.  On  its  careful  preparation  depends 
the  perfection  of  the  many  delicate  dishes  of  which  it 
is  an  adjunct.  Although  its  composition  appears 
simple,  its  preparation  in  an  ordinary  household, 
however  well  equipped,  is  not  only  expensive  but 
difficult  and  absorbing.  It  is,  therefore,  much  the 
simplest  plan  to  have  this  sauce  always  at  hand 
ready  made,  and  in  a  preparation  that  will  keep 
indefinitely. 

With  the  Sauce  Espagnole,  a  few  minutes  suffice  to 
make  the  finest  sauces — “  au  Sherry,”  “  au  Marsala,” 
“  au  Malvoisie,”  etc.,  etc.,  and  this  by  simply  adding 
to  the  Sauce  Espagnole  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
wine  mentioned  in  the  name  of  the  particular  sauce 
required. 

To  prepare  Sauce  Bordelaise,  put  into  a  glass  of 
Bordeaux  claret  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  eschalots  with 
a  little  cayenne  pepper,  boil  down  the  wine  over  a 
quick  fire,  and  add  half-a-pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole. 

Boil  for  a  few  minutes  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve ; 
add  about  two  ounces  of  any  fresh  marrow  cut  in 
flakes,  and  poached  in  boiling  water. 

This  sauce  is  served  with  rump  steak,  grilled  fillets 
of  beef,  tournedos,  etc.,  etc. 


Sauce  Bourguignonne  or  Red  Wine  Sauce  for 
poached  eggs  or  fish. 

Prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the  Sauce  Bordelaise, 
except  that,  instead  of  the  marrow,  two  ounces  of  butter 
are  added  and  mixed  thoroughly. 

This  preparation  will  serve  also  for  fish  cooked  in 
red  wine,  but  after  boiling  down  the  red  wine  the  stock 
of  the  particular  fish  should  be  added  whether  sole, 
turbot,  or  brill. 

Sauce  Piquante. — Place  in  a  small  saucepan  three  or 
four  eschalots  finely  chopped  and  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  good  wine  vinegar;  boil  down  to  a  fourth  of  its 
volume,  add  a  bottle  of  the  Sauce  Espagnole,  and 
boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  chopped  gherkins  and  capers  and  a  pinch  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  serve. 

Sauce  Genevoise. — This  sauce  is  prepared  in  the  same 
way  as  the  Bourguignonne  or  Red  Wine  Sauce,  with 
the  addition  at  the  moment  of  serving  of  one  ounce 
of  anchovy  butter. 

Salmis  of  Game. — To  make  delicate  salmis,  roast  the 
birds,  whether  partridges,  pheasants,  or  woodcock, 
etc.,  etc.,  and  cut  up  carefully.  Put  the  legs  and 
breast  in  a  saucepan  with  finely-sliced  truffles  and 
mushrooms  which  are  already  cooked.  Strip  the  mea^ 
off  the  rest  of  the  birds  and  put  in  another  saucepan 
with  two  chopped  eschalots,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and 


13 


two  glasses  of  Bordeaux  claret.  Boil  down  the  wine 
on  a  brisk  fire,  add  a  pint  of  Sauce  Espagnole,  and 
boil  from  20  to  25  minutes,  then  press  through  a  fine 
sieve,  and  pour  into  a  saucepan  containing  the  legs 
and  breasts,  and  heat  up  without  boiling. 

Note. — These  proportions  may  be  used  for  one 
pheasant,  two  partridges,  or  two  woodcock. 

SAUCE  CHASSEUR. 

This  sauce  serves  for  the  preparation  of  a  variety  of 
dishes  of  fish,  butcher’s  meat,  poultry,  game,  kidneys, 
chickens’  livers,  etc.,  and  is  besides  an  almost  indis¬ 
pensable  resource  in  the  art  of  re-dishing  viands  that 
remain  over. 

CHICKEN  SAUTE  A  LA  CHASSEUR. 

Cut  up  a  tender  chicken  into  six  or  eight  pieces, 
according  to  size.  Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  sauce¬ 
pan  and  add  to  it  a  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil ;  when 
quite  hot  put  in  the  pieces  of  chicken ;  fry  over  a  brisk 
fire,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  butter  get  dark.  The 
wing  pieces  will  be  cooked  through  sooner  than  the 
others,  and  should  be  removed  directly  they  are  done, 
and  kept  hot.  The  pieces  must  be  frequently  turned, 
so  that  they  are  equally  done  throughout. 

This  completed,  drain  off  a  part  of  the  butter,  and, 
if  available,  pour  over  the  chicken  a  small  glass  of 
fine  brandy  and  one  of  white  wine  ;  but  if  they  are  not 


at  hand,  a  little  hot  water  will  do  (as  the  basis  of  Sauce 
Chasseur  contains  both  fine  brandy  and  white  wine). 
Add  Sauce  Chasseur  and  allow  to  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes,  when,  having  replaced  the  wings  with  the  rest, 
put  in  a  good  pinch  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  serve 
at  once.  With  this  dish  may  be  served  boiled 
potatoes,  rice,  nouilles,  macaroni,  etc.,  etc. 

Pheasants,  partridges,  pigeons,  and  rabbits  are  pre¬ 
pared  in  the  same  way.  In  M.  Escoffier’s  opinion, 
this  is  quite  the  best  way  of  cooking  a  rabbit. 

To  re-dish  cold  roasts,  whether  lamb,  chicken, 
pheasants,  partridges,  duck,  woodcock,  or  pigeons, 
cut  up  and  simmer  20  to  25  minutes  over  a  slow  fire 
in  Sauce  Chasseur. 

With  a  little  care,  exquisite  dishes  may  thus  be 
made,  which  can  be  served  with  a  dish  of  plain 
potatoes  or  stewed  rice. 

NOISETTES  OF  LAMB  A  LA 
CHASSEUR. 

Cut  from  the  best  part  of  a  neck  of  lamb  or  from 
the  fillets  of  a  nice  saddle,  the  required  number  of 
pieces  of  meat  of  the  size  of  a  cob  nut,  and  trim 
neatly  to  an  oval  shape.  A  few  minutes  before 
the  dish  has  to  be  served,  heat  some  butter  in  a 
saucepan  and  fry  these  noisettes  in  it  over  a  brisk 
fire  on  both  sides,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  butter 


15 


get  too  dark.  Arrange  on  an  entree  dish,  each  noisette 
on  a  round  piece  of  bread  fried  in  butter  until  brown. 

Drain  from  the  saucepan  most  of  the  butter  and  add 
to  what  remains  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water  ;  boil 
and  add  the  Sauce  Chasseur,  after  which  boil  again 
for  a  few  seconds,  then  add  a  pinch  of  finely-chopped 
parsley  and  pour  over  the  noisettes,  and  serve  at  once. 

This  entree  may  be  served  with  a  dish  of  potatoes 
prepared  in  any  fashion,  a  dish  of  rice,  nouilles, 
tomatoes  au  gratin,  or  braised  lettuce. 

Noisettes  of  mutton  or  veal  are  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

The  dishing  of  the  noisettes  on  fried  toast  is 
optional. 


TOURNEDOS  A  LA  CHASSEUR. 

Tournedos  are  small  noisettes  of  beef  cut  out  of  the 
thin  parts  of  a  fillet.  The  preparation  and  dishing  up 
are  the  same  as  for  the  noisettes  of  lamb.  The  sauces 
and  dressings  for  the  Noisettes  and  Tournedos  can  be 
varied  in  numberless  ways. 

KIDNEYS  SAUTES  A  LA  CHASSEUR. 

Remove  the  thin  skin  which  covers  the  kidneys, 
and  cut  them  in  halves  lengthwise. 

Melt  some  butter  in  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  is 
quite  boiling  put  the  kidneys  in,  season  lightly  with 

16 


sait  and  pepper,  stir  over  a  brisk  fire,  being  careful 
that  they  are  underdone  within  so  as  to  retain  their 
juiciness.  Take  the  kidneys  out,  drain  off  the  butter 
from  the  saucepan,  and  put  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of 
boiling  water  and  half-a-pint  of  Sauce  Chasseur,  then 
boil  for  two  minutes,  and  put  in  the  kidneys  and  a 
small  piece  of  fresh  butter,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a 
sprinkling  of  finely-chopped  parsley;  well  shake  the 
saucepan  so  that  the  butter  shall  be  thoroughly  com' 
bined  with  the  sauce,  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  OR  TURKEY  LIVERS  A  LA 

CHASSEUR. 

Trim  some  nice  chicken  or  turkey  liver,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  fry  briskly  in  boiling  hot  butter,  and 
finish  in  same  sauce,  and  in  exactly  the  same  way  as 
the  kidneys.  A  dish  of  stewed  rice  may  be  served  with 
this. 

SOLE  AU  GRATIN. 

Preparation  for  Four  Persons. 

Take  two  very  fresh  soles,  about  two  pounds  each, 
skin,  remove  head  and  tail,  trim  neatly,  and  wash  in 
plenty  of  water.  Make  a  light  cut  the  length  of  the 
backbone. 

Lay  the  soles  on  a  well-buttered  fireproof  china 
dish,  add  four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and 
season  slightly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  finely-chopped 
parsley.  Put  the  dish  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  six  to 

*7, 


eight  minutes,  then  pour  over  the  soles  half-a-pint  of 
Sauce  Chasseur  already  made  hot,  strew  bread¬ 
crumbs  or  grated  bread  over  the  surface,  and  sprinkle 
with  melted  butter ;  put  in  the  oven  until  the  soles  are 
completely  cooked  and  the  “ gratin’’  is  of  a  bright 
brown  colour. 

When  serving  sprinkle  with  some  finely-chopped 
parsley  and  squeeze  over  a  few  drops  of  lemon. 

When  an  oven  is  not  available,  the  soles  may  be 
cooked  over  the  fire,  as  long  as  the  dish  is  kept 
covered ;  but  in  this  case  the  browning  of  the 
“gratin  ”  must  be  done  with  a  salamander. 

Turbot,  brill,  and  whiting  may  be  prepared  in  the 
same  way. 

SAUCE  AMERICAINE. 

Although  this  sauce  is  specially  intended  for  the 
preparation  of  “  Lobster  k  l’Am^ricaine,”  it  can  also 
be  used  with  advantage  for  soles,  turbot,  brill,  and 
a  variety  of  other  kinds  of  fish. 


LOBSTER  A  L’ AMERICAINE. 

Select  two  medium-sized  fresh  lobsters,  cut  off  the 
claws  of  each  (the  shell  must  first  be  broken),  and 
divide  the  lobsters  in  halves  by  cutting  length¬ 
wise.  Keep  the  intestines.  Remove  the  little  bag 
which  will  be  found  near  the  head,  containing  grit. 

is 


Each  half  lobster  may  be  divided  into  two  or  three 
pieces.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  turn  into  a  sauce¬ 
pan,  in  which  two  ounces  of  butter  and  two  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil  have  previously  been  heated, 
and  crisp  the  flesh  quickly  over  a  hot  fire  until  the 
shell  is  a  bright  red  colour.  Pour  over  the  lobster 
three  spoonfuls  of  fine  brandy  and  a  wineglassful  of 
dry  white  wine,  allow  to  simmer  for  a  few  seconds, 
then  add  the  Sauce  Americaine  (a  small  bottle  of  sauce 
is  quite  sufficient  for  a  lobster  weighing  i  to  lbs.,  or 
one  pound  of  fish),  put  the  lid  on  the  saucepan,  and 
cook  from  15  to  20  minutes.  Arrange  the  lobster 
on  a  deep  dish.  Finish  the  sauce  by  adding  the 
crushed  intestines  with  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter, 
a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley, 
pour  it  over  the  lobster,  and  serve  as  hot  as 
possible. 


TIMBALE  OF  LOBSTER  A 
L’ AMERICAINE. 

The  preparation  and  cooking  of  the  lobster  is  exactly 
the  same  as  for  Lobster  a  l’Am^ricaine,  but  directly 
cooked  the  meat  is  separated  from  the  shell,  and 
served  in  silver  or  china  soufflet  cases.  Whichever 
way  it  is  served,  it  may  be  accompanied  by  a  dish  of 
stewed  rice. 

Crayfish  may  be  served  in  the  same  way. 


19 


FISH  A  L’AMERICAINE. 

Dish  for  six  or  eight  persons. 

Small  turbot,  soles,  brill,  and  whiting  are  cut  in 
pieces,  or  they  may  be  simply  filleted.  They  are  then 
placed  in  a  saucepan  with  two  or  three  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  lightly  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Add  six  to  eight  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  with  a 
little  chopped  parsley  and  the  Sauce  Americaine  (for 
i  lb.  of  fish,  one  small  bottle),  and  boil  briskly.  When 
cooked  sufficiently,  arrange  the  fish  in  a  deep  dish  and 
finish  the  sauce  by  adding  to  it  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon.  Pour  the  sauce  over 
the  fish  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

CATALANE,  TYROLIENNE, 
PROVENQALE  &  PORTUGAISE 

SAUCES. 

These  various  sauces  retain  the  well-defined  char¬ 
acteristics  of  the  countries  after  which  they  are  named. 
They  may  be  served  with  all  kinds  of  roast,  grilled,  or 
saut6es  meats,  whether  beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  venison, 
or  poultry.  They  can  also  be  used  in  preparations  of 
eggs,  and  various  kinds  of  fish,  such  as  salmon,  trout, 
plaice,  and  salt  cod,  lobsters,  and  prawns. 

Directions  for  Use. — To  accompany  grilled  or  roast 
meats,  simply  pour  into  a  saucepan  the  contents  of  one 
or  more  bottles  of  sauce  ;  boil  two  minutes. 


20 


For  meats  sautees,  noisettes  of  mutton  and  lamb, 
tournedos,  etc.  Season  the  meat  with  salt  and  pepper, 
cook  it  in  butter  in  a  flat  stew  pan  ;  directly  it  is  done 
arrange  in  a  dish.  Remove  from  the  stew  pan  half  the 
butter  used,  then  pour  into  the  stew  pan  a  bottle  of 
sauce ;  boil  two  minutes  and  pour  over  the  meat.  A 
spoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley  may  be  added. 

Eggs  Catalane. — Put  in  an  egg  dish  (preferably  china 
or  earthenware)  as  many  tablespoonfuls  of  sauce  as 
there  are  eggs  required,  heat  it,  break  quite  fresh  eggs 
into  the  sauce,  and  cook  in  an  oven  or  salamander. 

The  Provenqale,  Portugaise,and  Tyrolienne  Sauces  can 
also  be  used  for  the  same  culinary  preparations  as  the 
Catalane,  with  eggs,  fish,  poultry,  beef,  veal,  lamb, 
mutton,  and  fresh  pork. 

The  Tyrolienne  Sauce  is  specially  recommended  with 
fresh  pork. 

All  the  preparations  can  be  served  with  rice,  or  with 
potatoes,  boiled  or  roasted. 

FILLETED  SOLES  CATALANE. 

Take  the  fillets  from  two  medium-sized  soles,  trim 
them,  fold  in  two,  place  in  a  fiat  stew-pan,  slightly 
salt  them,  add  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water  (or 
dry  white  wine  may  be  used  instead  of  water),  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  Catalane  sauce,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley ;  put  the  lid  on  the  stew-pan  and 
cook  for  about  twelve  minutes. 


21 


Arrange  the  fillets  on  a  serving  dish  at  once,  add  to 
the  sauce  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  a  squeeze  of 
lemon  juice,  shake  the  stew-pan  so  that  the  sauce  is 
well  mixed,  pour  over  the  fillets,  and  serve  at  once. 
Turbot,  brill,  fresh  cod,  whiting  and  salmon  are  pre¬ 
pared  in  the  same  way.  The  flesh  of  the  fish  is  cut  in 
pieces  or  in  small  fillets  or  scalloped. 

LOBSTER  AND  CRAY  FISH  A  LA 
CATALANE. 

Lobsters  are  best  cooked  beforehand,  the  flesh  is 
then  taken  from  the  shell,  scalloped,  and  placed  in  a  flat 
stew-pan.  For  a  medium-sized  lobster  add  six  to  eight 
tablespoonfuls  of  Catalane  Sauce  and  some  chopped 
parsley,  and  warm  slowly.  When  serving,  add  two 
ounces  of  fresh  butter  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon  to  the 
sauce,  and  shake  the  stew-pan  to  mix  well  as  before. 

Prawns,  red  or  grey,  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 
For  half  a  pound  of  prawns  use  six  to  eight  table 
spoonfuls  of  Catalane  Sauce,  and  finish  off  with  fresh 
butter  or  lemon  juice  as  before. 

OMELETTE  A  LA  CATALANE. 

(For  an  omelette  of  six  eggs) :  Break  the  eggs  into  a 
tureen,  beat  well,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Sauce 
Catalane,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  cook  in  the  ordinary  way.  This  ome¬ 
lette  may  be  served  flat  or  rolled,  according  to  taste. 

Other  recipes  will  be  found  in  M.  Escoffier’s  “  Guide 
to  Modern  Cookery.” 


22 


VELOUTE,  OR  BLONDE  SAUCE. 

The  sauce  thus  named  is  nothing  else  than  a  white 
gravy  thickened,  which  serves  as  the  basis  of  most  of 
the  White,  Blonde,  Red,  or  Green  Sauces.  Veloute 
is  also  the  basis  of  the  thick  soups  called  Cremes  or 
Veloutes. 

It  is  important  to  remember  that  Veloute  being, 
like  the  thickened  brown  gravy,  only  a  blending 
medium,  it  should  be  quite  neutral  in  flavour,  so  as 
to  be  equally  adapted  for  use  with  butchers’  meats, 
poultry,  and  game.  For  its  preparation  veal  and 
poultry  flesh  give  the  best  results. 

The  following  are  the  principal  sauces  which  have 
Veloute  for  basis  : — 


SUPREME  SAUCE. 

Heat  to  boiling  point  the  contents  of  a  bottle  of 
Veloute,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  cream,  and 
serve. 

SAUCE  BLONDE,  OR  GERMAN  SAUCE, 

Put  in  a  small  saucepan  three  yolks  of  eggs,  two 
dessertspoonfuls  of  fresh  cream  and  a  little  pepper. 
Mix  the  yolks  and  cream  with  a  small  egg  beater, 
add  the  contents  of  a  bottle  of  Veloute,  and  thicken 
the  sauce  on  a  slow  fire  until  the  consistency  of  a 
cream. 


23 


PAPRIKA,  OR  RED  SAUCE. 

For  the  contents  of  a  bottle  of  Velout£,  cook  in  a 
saucepan  half  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions  with 
two  ounces  of  butter.  Add  a  tablespoonful  of  Red 
Paprika,  beat  well,  and  while  stirring  the  Paprika  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  add  the  Velout6.  Boil  for  a  few  min¬ 
utes,  pass  through  a  fine  strainer,  and  finish  by  adding 
three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  cream. 

This  sauce  may  be  used  for  fish,  as  well  as  for  all 
white  meats,  whether  of  poultry  or  game. 

As  an  accompaniment  to  boiled  fish,  there  may  be 
added  to  the  sauce  lobster  cut  in  cubes,  shrimps, 
mushrooms,  or  truffles. 

The  same  dressing  can  serve  for  “  petites  bouch^es” 
and  “  croustades,”  which  may,  if  needful,  be  used 
as  warm  hors-d’ceuvre  or  petites  entrees. 

For  the  petites  bouch^es  and  croustades,  the  fish 
may  be  replaced  by  breast  of  chicken  or  calf’s  sweet¬ 
bread  cooked  and  cut  in  small  cubes,  with  mushrooms 
and  truffles. 


SAUCE  AU  CURRY. 

To  prepare  use  the  same  method  as  above,  substi¬ 
tuting  curry  powder  for  the  Paprika. 

All  these  sauces,  Supreme,  Blonde,  or  Red,  may 
be  used  for  similar  preparations. 


24 


GREEN  SAUCE  OR  HOT  RAVIGOTE. 

For  the  contents  of  a  bottle  of  Velouffi  put  in  a  small 
saucepan  two  finely-chopped  eschalots,  some  chervil 
and  tarragon  leaves,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  wine 
vinegar,  and  a  little  pepper.  Boil  down,  add  the 
Veloute,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pass  through  a 
strainer,  then  impart  a  slightly  green  colour  with  a 
little  spinach  green  prepared  at  the  moment. 

Finish  the  sauce  by  adding  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  fresh  cream. 

This  sauce  is  generally  used  with  boiled  fish. 

All  these  different  sauces  —  Blonde,  Red,  and 
Green — can  also  be  used  cold  for  chaudfroids  of  fish, 
poultry,  game,  and  white  meats. 

The  method  of  use  for  Sauce  Chaudfroid  is  to 
add,  during  the  cooking  of  any  of  these  sauces,  three 
or  four  leaves  of  gelatine,  melted.  After  cooling 
sufficiently,  enclose  in  it  the  fish  or  poultry,  etc.,  as  the 
case  may  be. 

METHOD  OF  USING  VELOUTE  FOR 

SOUPS. 

After  having  heated  one  or  other  of  the  Veloute 
Sauces,  Blonde,  Paprika,  or  Au  Curry,  add  the 
same  measure  of  white  chicken  or  veal  broth,  or  simply 
of  milk.  After  boiling,  pass  through  a  fine  strainer, 
and  to  finish  add  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  cream, 
or  thicken  it  at  the  last  moment  with  three  yolks 
of  eggs  beatenhvith  a  little  cream. 


25 


There  may  be  added  in  the  soup  tureen  small  crusts 
fried  in  butter,  or  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cooked  rice, 
vermicelli,  or  fancy  pastes. 

RICE  PILAW. 

Melt  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  butter,  add  half 
a  medium-sized  onion  finely  chopped,  and  cook  a  few 
minutes  without  allowing  it  to  brown.  Add  five 
ounces  of  Caroline  or  Patna  rice.  Stir  on  the  fire  until 
the  rice  is  quite  hot ;  pour  in  a  good  pint  of  hot  white 
bouillon,  cover  the  saucepan  and  cook  in  a  gently 
heated  oven  for  18  minutes.  If  no  oven  is  available, 
it  can  be  gently  cooked  on  the  corner  of  a  stove, 
covered  in,  and  without  stirring. 

Rice  Pilaw  may  be  used  for  dishing  with  various 
preparations  of  eggs,  fish,  meats,  poultry,  and  game. 
Red  Spanish  Pimentos  cut  in  small  dice  make  a  very 
pretty  and  tasty  addition. 


26 


S 


A  SHORT  NOTE  ON  ITALIAN  PASTE 
GENERALLY,  Viz.:— MACARONI, 
SPAGHETTI,  LASAGNES, 
VERMICELLI,  etc. 

All  these  varieties  of  pastes  play  an  important  part 
in  alimentation,  and  they  lend  themselves  to  a  large 
selection  of  culinary  preparations  of  the  most  savoury 
description,  worthy  to  figure  on  the  most  sumptuously 
furnished  tables. 

They  are,  in  the  first  place,  so  nourishing  that  they 
might  be  called  vegetable  meat,  and  they  are  easy  of 
digestion.  They  can  be  taken  by  the  weakest  stomachs 
so  long  as  the  cooking  is  perfect. 

To  prepare. — Cook  in  boiling  water  containing  half- 
an-ounce  of  salt  for  every  two  pints  of  water  and 
four  ounces  of  macaroni.  The  period  of  boiling  varies 
between  io  and  15  minutes,  according  to  the  quality  ot 
the  macaroni.  It  should  be,  when  cooked,  preferably 
a  little  firm.  Strain  directly  and  put  into  a  saucepan 
with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter ;  the  same  weight  of 
Parmesan  and  Gruyere  cheese  freshly  grated,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  cream. 

Mix  the  whole  well  and  serve. 

The  other  kinds  of  paste  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
way. 


27 


To  augment  the  nutritive  properties  of  these  pastes, 
they  are  also  served  with  an  Estouffade  of  beef  a  la 
Napolitaine.  As  the  making  of  this  preparation  is 
not  within  the  possibilities  of  an  ordinary  kitchen, 
M.  Escoffier  feels  it  will  be  welcomed,  ready  for  use,  in 
small  bottles. 

ESTOUFFADE  FOR  MACARONI  A  LA 
NAPOLITAINE. 

To  prepare. — Cook  the  macaroni  as  before  described. 
When  cooked  strain  immediately  in  a  large-holed 
colander;  put  it  back  in  the  saucepan  and  add  two 
ounces  of  fresh  butter.  Arrange  in  a  hollow  dish  a 
layer  of  Parmesan  cheese  freshly  grated,  cover  that 
with  a  coating  of  the  sauce,  on  which  place  a  bed 
of  the  macaroni.  Repeat  the  layers  alternately  in  the 
same  order  until  the  dish  is  full,  and  serve. 


28 


DERBY  SAUCE. 

This  is  a  novel  preparation  of  exquisite  flavour. 
Its  properties  are  digestive  and  exhilarating,  whilst 
it  does  not  tire  the  stomach.  It  is  served  with  all 
kinds  of  fish — fried,  grilled,  or  boiled;  with  steaks, 
chops,  and  cutlets,  roast  or  boiled  meats,  poultry, 
game,  and  venison,  and  with  every  sort  of  cold  meat. 
It  gives  a  special  flavour  to  all  kinds  of  sauces,  soups, 
stews,  and  curries,  and  will  be  found  almost  indispens¬ 
able  in  the  dressing  of  all  vegetable  salads. 

T o  prepare  : — 

For  Fish  and  Grills. — For  two  or  three  persons  mix 
a  tablespoonful  of  Derby  Sauce  with  about  three 
spoonfuls  of  fresh  butter. 

For  Roast  Meat. — Add  a  tablespoonful  of  Derby 
Sauce  to  two  or  three  of  gravy. 

For  Sauces,  Fumets,  Stews,  Soups. — Add  a  tablespoonful 
of  Derby  Sauce  to  each  pint  of  sauce  or  stew. 

For  Potato  or  Vegetable  Salads. — In  a  salad  for  two 
or  three  persons  :  add  a  teaspoonful  of  Derby 
Sauce  to  the  ordinary  seasoning  of  oil  and  vinegar. 

For  Cold  Meats. — Shake  the  bottle  and  use  the  sauce 
as  it  is. 

SAUCE  DIABLE  FOR  GRILLED  POULTRY 

(A  Hot  Sauce.) 

To  prepare. — Use  the  same  method  as  for  the  Sauce 
Bordelaise,  except  that  a  mixture  of  half  wine  vinegar 
and  half  white  wine  is  substituted  for  the  red  wine. 

After  boiling  a  few  minutes  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
Derby  Sauce. 


29 


SAUCE  POIVRADE. 

To  prepare. — Put  in  a  small  saucepan  three  or  four 
eschalots  chopped  very  small,  a  teaspoonful  of  ground 
pepper  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  good  vinegar.  Boil 
down  to  a  quarter  of  its  bulk,  add  a  bottle  of  Sauce 
Espagnole,  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

SAUCE  CHEVREUIL  (Roebuck). 

To  Prepare. — Add  to  six  tablespoonfuls  of  Sauce 
Poivrade,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  red  currant  jelly  and 
one  tablespoonful  of  double  cream. 

SAUCE  DIABLE  A  LA  PROVEN^ALE. 

This  Sauce  is,  as  its  name  suggests,  very  piquant, 
and  is  much  appreciated  with  all  kinds  of  grills, 
whether  of  fish  or  meat,  its  flavour  being  as  novel  as 
it  is  pleasing. 

Directions  for  use  :  — 

DEVILLED  SOLE. 

Preparation  for  Four  Persons. 

Skin  two  moderate  sized  fresh  soles.  Add  to  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  Sauce  Diable  the  same  quantity  of 
fresh  butter.  Warm  and  mix  uniformly.  Grill  the 
soles,  lay  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  cover  with  the 
sauce  thus  prepared.  The  soles  may  also  be  served 
simply  grilled,  with  the  sauce,  prepared  as  above,  in  a 
sauce-boat  apart. 

This  preparation  of  the  Sauce  Diable  will  go  with 
all  kinds  of  fish,  and  with  grills  of  every  description 


30 


and  may  also  be  used  for  flavouring  gravies,  and  with 
various  forms  of  dressed  eggs.  Also,  thoroughly 
mixed  with  butter,  it  may  be  spread  on  bread,  thereby 
making  a  very  excellent  savoury  addition  to  all  kinds 
of  meat  or  fish  sandwiches. 

The  sauce  may  be  used  to  great  advantage  in 
seasoning  different  salads,  potatoes,  and  other  vege¬ 
tables,  particularly  with  fish  salads. 

ESCOFFIER  SAUCE  ROBERT. 

Escoffier  Sauce  Robert  is  a  preparation  of  the  finest 
French  tomatoes,  Spanish  Pimentos,  and  other  con¬ 
diments.  It  has  a  pronounced,  though  delicate, 
flavour,  quite  peculiar  to  itself,  and  forms  an  excellent 
addition  to  chops  and  steaks,  and  cold  meats  of  every 
description . 

RABBIT  SAUTE  A  LA  SAUCE  ROBERT. 

Select  a  nice  young  wild  rabbit,  skin,  draw, 
thoroughly  cleanse,  and  cut  it  into  eight  pieces. 
Heat  in  a  saute-pan  three  ounces  of  melted  butter, 
or  an  equal  quantity  of  pork  fat,  and  when  it  is  boil¬ 
ing,  throw  in  the  pieces  of  rabbit  and  fry  them  evenly 
while  stirring  with  a  wooden  spoon.  When  they 
begin  to  brown,  add  one  chopped  onion,  a  little  garlic, 
salt  and  pepper ;  let  all  cook  together  for  five  minutes, 
stirring  repeatedly  the  while,  and  then  sprinkle  with 
a  good  tablespooonful  of  flour.  Let  the  latter  cook 
with  the  rest  for  a  few  minutes,  without  ceasing  to 
stir ;  then  pour  over  them  two  glassfuls  of  white  wine, 


31 


or  just  enough  hot  water  to  cover  the  rabbit.  Stir 
again  patiently  in  order  properly  to  dilute  the  flour, 
and  to  prevent  the  preparation  from  burning  on  the 
bottom.  Boil,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley ;  cover  the  sautfe  pan,  and  cook  for  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes  in  the  oven.  Now  add  to  the 
sauce  six  tablespoonfuls  of  Sauce  Robert,  and  two  of 
fresh  cream ;  set  it  to  boil  for  a  few  moments  longer, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

CHICKEN  SAUTE  A  LA  SAUCE  ROBERT. 

This  is  prepared  similarly  to  the  rabbit.  The  time 
allowed  for  cooking  is  also  the  same,  provided  the 
fowl  be  young  and  very  tender. 

VEAL  SAUTE  A  LA  SAUCE  ROBERT. 

This  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  the 
preceding. 

With  beef,  mutton,  lamb,  and  pork,  whether  roast 
or  grilled,  the  Sauce  Robert  may  be  served  either 
cold  or  hot;  in  the  latter  case  it  is  only  necessary 
to  warm  it  at  the  time  of  serving. 

For  Venison,  Hare,  Pheasant,  Partridge,  and  other 
Game. — Warm  the  sauce  and  add  about  the  same 
quantity  of  fresh  cream,  then  boil  for  two  minutes, 
and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 

The  Sauce  Robert  is  also  excellent  served  hot  with 
boiled  beef  or  mutton. 


32 


ESCOFFIER  IDEAL  SAUCE. 

The  particular  merit  of  this  sauce  lies  in  the  ex¬ 
quisite  flavour  it  imparts  to  the  meats,  poultry  or  fish 
with  which  it  is  served.  It  is  a  necessary  completion 
to  the  seasoning  of  those  salads  which  have  a  vege¬ 
table  for  basis,  such  as  “  Salade  Russe,”  “  Salade 
Italienne,”  “  Salade  de  Bceuf,”  and  the  various  salads 
of  fish  and  tomato. 

ESCOFFIER  SAUCE  FAVORITE. 

“Sauce  Favorite”  may  accompany  all  meats,  hot  or 
cold,  poultry,  game  and  venison,  as  well  as  grilled  fish, 
ham,  and  salads. 

Easy  of  digestion  and  agreeable  in  flavour,  this 
sauce  will  have  great  popularity. 

CUMBERLAND  SAUCE. 

Cumberland  Sauce  is  an  appetising  sauce,  made 
with  a  special  old  wine,  and  is  both  fortifying 
and  digestive.  It  is  generally  served  with  venison 
or  game  of  any  description,  but  is  equally  suitable 
for  use  with  meats,  goose,  or  duck. 

Persons  with  delicate  digestion  may  use  the  sauce 
-  without  any  fear. 

ESSENCE  OF  ANCHOVIES. 

Anchovy  Essence  is  used  in  making  Anchovy 
Butter,  and  to  flavour  various  other  culinary  prepara¬ 
tions,  as  well  as  different  salads  of  vegetables,  potato 
salad,  Salade  Russe,  and  fish  salads. 


33 


Directions  for  making  Anchovy  Butter. — Take  one 
tablespoonful  of  Anchovy  Essence  and  three  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  fresh  butter;  add  some  lemon  juice  and 
mix  the  whole  thoroughly  together. 

Anchovy  Butter  is  an  excellent  adjunct  to  grilled 
beef,  steaks,  etc.,  and  grilled  fish. 

Added  to  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  hard-boiled 
eggs,  anchovy  butter  makes  an  excellent  hors-d’oeuvre 
eaten  with  toast  or  simply  in  the  form  of  sandwiches. 

Anchovy  Butter  is  indispensable  to  strengthen  the 
flavour  of  red  wine  sauces,  such  as  Sauce  Genevoise 
and  Sauce  Matelote. 

ANCHOVY  ESSENCE  IN  SALADS. 

To  prepare. — Take  one  tablespoonful  of  anchovy 
essence,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wine  vinegar,  six  table¬ 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  pepper  and  salt  (if  necessary). 
Beat  up  well  until  thoroughly  amalgamated.  There  may 
be  added,  according  to  taste,  finely-chopped  onions, 
chives,  parsley,  chervil,  or  tarragon  and  mustard. 

CHERRY  CHUTNEY. 

This  chutney — exquisite  in  flavour — can  be  served 
with  curried  fowl,  mutton,  or  rabbit,  and  with  roast 
venison,  duck,  or  goose,  whether  hot  or  cold. 

ESCOFFIER  CHUTNEY. 

Escoffier  Chutney  is  made  from  the  very  finest 
selection  of  Indian  mangoes,  to  which  is  added  a 
delicious  piquant  sauce  which  gives  the  chutney  a 
flavour  of  its  own  not  to  be  found  in  any  other 
chutney  offered  to  the  public. 


34 


ESCOFFIER  PICKLES. 

Escoffier  Pickles  are  prepared  in  a  delicately  flavoured 
tomato  pur6e,  and  although  sweet,  are  at  the  same  time 
piquant.  The  whole  of  the  vegetables  are  preserved  in 
pure  wine  vinegar,  thereby  rendering  the  pickles  perfect 
from  a  digestive  point  of  view,  and  they  may  be  eaten 
without  incurring  the  unpleasantness  which  frequently 
arises  after  using  pickles  of  the  ordinary  kind. 

ESCOFFIER  HORSERADISH  SAUCE. 

Escoffler  Horseradish  Sauce  is  prepared  from  hand- 
shredded  horseradish,  mixed  with  a  delicately- 
flavoured  mayonnaise,  and  goes  well  with  any  kind  of 
fish  or  cold  meats. 

ANCHOVY  CREAM.  (A  new  product.) 

This  sauce  is  made  from  the  most  delicately- 
flavoured  anchovies,  caught  on  the  Mediterranean 
coast  between  Cannes  and  Nice. 

ESCOFFIER  GHERKINS. 

Escoffier  Gherkins,  prepared  in  a  piquant  sauce, 
slightly  sweetened.  A  novel  and  delicious  variety  of 
pickle. 

ESCOFFIER  PICCALILLI. 

Escoffier  Piccalilli  is  prepared  in  pure  French  wine 
vinegar,  and  is  an  improvement  upon  the  best  Piccalilli 
hitherto  known. 


35 


SPANISH  RED  PIMENTOS. 

Spanish  Red  Pimentos  make  an  attractive  and 
tasteful  hors-d’oeuvre,  if  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
chopped  sweet  herbs,  olive  oil,  vinegar,  and  fillets  of 
anchovies. 

They  can  also  be  added  as  a  decorative  dressing  or 
seasoning  to  all  kinds  of  vegetable,  poultry,  or  fish 
salads,  preparations  of  rice,  such  as  pilaws  of  fish, 
poultry,  or  lamb,  and  in  curries.  Cut  in  strips  or 
patterns,  their  brilliant  red  colour  is  very  effective. 

They  must  be  used  in  Pullet  a  la  Edouard  VII.,  a 
dish  specially  created  for  the  Coronation  of  His 
Majesty  King  Edward  VII. 

They  are  also  delicious  braised  in  olive  oil  with 
some  tomato  pulp  and  a  pronounced  seasoning. 

ESCOFFIER  SAUCE  MELBA. 

Escoffier  Sauee  Melba  is  a  special  preparation 
flavoured  with  raspberry  juice,  and  may  be  used  in 
the  following  manner  for  Peaches  Melba. 

Select  fine  ripe  peaches  of  the  kind  that  detach 
themselves  readily  from  their  stones,  steep  in  boiling 
water,  peel  away  the  skins,  place  in  a  basin,  and  cover 
with  a  syrup  flavoured  with  vanilla,  or  simply  sprinkle 
lightly  with  castor  sugar.  Keep  the  basin  on  ice. 
At  the  moment  of  serving  take  the  peaches  out  of 
the  syrup,  arrange  them  in  a  silver  dish  on  a  bed  of 
vanilla  ice,  and  mask  each  with  Sauce  Melba. 


36 


Sauce  Melba  may  also  be  used  as  an  accompani¬ 
ment  to  other  fruits,  such  as  pears,  strawberries, 
cherries,  with  macedoine,  and  with  all  kinds  of 
puddings  and  custards,  hot  or  cold. 

It  is  specially  recommended  for  Souffle  Hilda,  a 
Lemon  Souffle  (served  hot),  with  which  Sauce  Melba 
(cold)  should  be  served  in  a  sauce-boat,  as  an  accom¬ 
paniment. 

CHERRIES  A  LA  JUBILE. 

A  charming  preparation  created  at  the  Grand  Hotel, 
Monte  Carlo,  in  1887,  in  honour  of  the  Jubilee  of 
H.M.  Queen  Victoria,  and  so  much  appreciated  by  His 
Majesty  King  Edward  VII.,  then  staying  at  the 
Hotel,  that  His  Majesty  was  pleased  to  ask  personally 
for  the  recipe. 

To  prepare. — Warm  the  cherries  and  arrange  them 
in  small  silver  cassolettes  (one  cassolette  for  each 
person),  taking  care  to  leave  sufficient  space  for  the 
addition,  at  the  moment  of  serving,  of  a  spoonful  of 
excellent  Kirsch  slightly  heated,  which  should  be  set 
alight  when  served. 

These  cherries,  just  as  they  are  in  the  bottles,  can 
be  used  for  a  variety  of  entremets,  hot  or  cold,  either 
as  a  decorative  dressing,  or  as  a  sauce,  to  accompany 
rice  or  semolina  puddings,  souffles  a  la  Vanille,  au 
Citron,  and  a  l’Orange ;  Omelettes  au  Kirsch  or  au 
Rhum,  and  with  Mousses  glacees  a  la  Vanille,  Pralinees, 
aux  Marrons,  etc. 


37 


CHERRY  CUPS. 

This  pretty  and  delicious  preparation  is  made  as 
follows : 

Fill  with  vanilla  ice  as  many  small  glass  cups  as 
there  are  guests,  place  in  the  centre  of  each  six  of 
the  cherries,  well  enveloped  in  their  own  sauce,  then 
finish  the  cups  by  covering  in  dome  shape  with  Chan¬ 
tilly  ice,  tapering  in  the  middle  to  a  cone  and  cover 
with  a  slight  veil  of  red  filled  sugar. 

ABRICOMA  SAUCE. 

This  Sauce  may  be  served  hot  or  cold.  Served  hot , 
it  will  be  found  a  delicate  sweetening  addition  to  all 
kinds  of  Puddings,  Souffles,  Crorltes  aux  Fruits,  and 
for  Crofites  or  Timbales  au  Mad^re.  Served  cold  it 
is  excellent  with  Puddings,  Ices,  Vanilla  or  Chestnut 
flavoured  Bavarois  and  Mousses  glacees.  Whether 
served  hot  or  cold,  the  flavour  may  be  heightened  by 
the  addition  of  a  few  teaspoonfuls  of  liqueur  just 
before  serving,  either  Kirsch,  Maraschino  or  Rum ;  or 
a  small  glass  of  Madeira  Wine  for  Crotites,  or  Timbale 
of  Fruits  au  Madere. 


38 


COOKERY  AND  HEALTH. 


1- — The  value  of  pickles  in  the  dietary. 

2.  — The  use  and  abuse  of  flavouring 

ingredients  in  food. 

3.  — Harmless  colouring  matters  for  dishes 

and  confectionery. 

4.  — How  to  get  the  most  nourishment 

from  beef,  mutton,  and  game  in  the 
diet  of  invalids. 


From  a  paper  prepared  by 

M.  ESCOFFIER, 


And  published  with  his  permission  by 

THE  INSTITUTE  OF  HYGIENE 

LONDON 


1.  The  Value  of  Pickles  in  Dietary. 

Pickles  do  not  constitute  a  food.  Their  value  is  in 
so  far  as  they  excite  the  appetite  and  thus  aid  digestion. 
Care  should  be  exercised  in  the  use  of  aromatic  sub¬ 
stances  in  their  preparation,  and  those  only  should  be 
chosen  which  contain  digestive  and  nourishing 
principles. 

Only  the  best  quality  vinegar  should  be  used.  The 
addition  of  sugar  to  the  vinegar  has  the  double  advan¬ 
tage  of  diminishing  the  acidity  and  of  making  the 
pickles  nutritive,  whilst  preserving  a  piquant  and 
agreeable  flavour. 

2.  The  Greater  or  Less  Use  of  Flavouring  In¬ 

gredients, 

The  greater  or  less  use  of  spices  is  due  above  all  to 
diversity  of  climate  and  individual  temperament.  The 
wise  use  of  spices  is  the  secret  of  cookery,  for  every¬ 
thing  depends  on  well-calculated  seasoning.  Abuses 
in  cookery,  as  in  everything,  are  faults ;  man  should 
know  how  to  regulate  his  nourishment,  inasmuch  as 
what  may  do  good  to  one  may  do  harm  to  another. 
Amongst  all  living  creatures  it  is  the  human  race  that 
pays  least  attention  to  the  laws  of  health. 

3.  Harmless  Colouring  Matters  for  Dishes  and 

Confectionery. 

The  colouring  materials  which  are  employed  in 
cooking  should  be  extracted  directly  from  vegetables 
or  fruits  destined  for  food,  such  as  spinach,  chervil, 


40 


V 


tarragon,  tomatoes,  capsicums,  red  Spanish  Pimentos, 
carrots,  beetroot,  raspberries,  oranges,  caramel,  and 
divers  other  natural  products.  Preparations  of  the 
colours  of  all  these  can  be  bought  in  the  usual  way, 
but  they  are  more  or  less  chemical  compounds,  which, 
although  not  harmful,  should  only  be  used  in 
moderation. 

4.  How  to  get  the  most  Nourishment  from  Beef, 
Mutton,  and  Game  in  the  Diet  of  Invalids. 

By  reason  of  the  importance  of  getting  the  best 
result  from  the  processes  used,  this  matter  must  be 
treated  with  solicitude,  and  every  possible  develop¬ 
ment  studied;  but  to  be  thoroughly  clear  as  to  what 
takes  place  when  meat  of  any  sort  is  cooked  in  water, 
it  is  indispensable  to  know  of  what  comestible  and 
nutritive  elements  the  flesh  of  animals  is  composed. 
These  elements  are  fibrine,  gelatine,  osmazome,  fat, 
and  albumen. 

Fibrine  is  what  forms  the  muscles  or  flesh  properly 
so  called ;  all  its  nutritive  qualities  are  drawn  out  by 
long  and  slow  boiling. 

Osmazome  has  a  stimulating  quality;  it  excites 
appetite  and  contributes  in  an  important  degree  to 
easy  digestion. 

Fat  exists  separately  in  certain  parts  of  animals, 
and  in  other  parts  is  united  with  the  fibres ;  this  latter 
kind  is  always  more  digestive  and  nourishing. 


41 


Albumen  abounds  in  the  blood,  and  is  also  found  in 
all  parts  of  the  flesh,  which  explains  why  the  less  the 
meat  has  been  drained  of  blood,  the  more  savoury  is 
the  soup  it  produces. 

Bones  and  Bone  Soup. — Bones  contain  a  large 
quantity  of  gelatine.  This  gelatine  in  its  pure  state 
is  insipid,  but  joined  with  meat,  the  osmazome  of  the 
latter  imparts  flavour,  and  the  bouillon  acquires  more 
taste. 

Beef  is  the  meat  which  makes  the  best  soup,  and  it 
should  be  as  fresh  as  possible.  Do  not  wash  it,  as 
that  deprives  it  of  part  of  its  juices.  To  get  a  good 
soup  the  bones  should  be  separated  from  the  flesh,  the 
bones  being  broken  up  and  the  pieces  of  meat  tied  up 
with  string.  Both  are  put  into  a  saucepan  with  if 
pints  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat,  and  two  whole  fowls 
per  twenty  pounds  of  meat.  Warm  the  saucepan 
gently  to  give  time  to  the  albumen  first  to  dissolve  and 
then  to  congeal  in  the  form  of  froth,  which  is  carefully 
removed. 

When  the  contents  have  been  well  skimmed  and 
commence  to  boil,  they  are  lightly  salted,  and  such 
vegetables  are  added  as  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips, 
celery,  pickled  onions,  cloves,  and  garlic.  A  minimum 
of  seven  hours  boiling  is  necessary  for  the  soup  to 
obtain  all  the  properties  required. 


42 


The  Escoffier  preparations  are  stocked 
by  the  majority  of  high-class  Grocers  and 
Stores  throughout  the  United  Kingdom. 

None  genuine  unless  bearing  the  signature 
on  label : — 


The  name  of  the  nearest  agent  will  be 
forwarded  on  application  to — 

ESCOFFIER  (1907)  LTD., 

6,  Ridgmount  Street, 

Tottenham  Court  Road, 

London,  W.C, 


INDEX 


Abricoma  Sauce 

A 

•••  •••  •  •  •  ••• 

Page 

38 

Americaine  Sauce  ... 

•••  •••  •  •  9  ••• 

18 

Anchovy  Butter 

•••  •••  ...  ... 

34 

Anchovy  Cream 

•••  •••  •  •  •  ••• 

35 

Anchovy  Essence  ... 

•••  •••  •••  ••• 

34 

Basic  Sauces... 

B 

•••  •••  .  .  . 

11 

Blonde  Sauce 

•••  • • •  •••  •  • . 

23 

Bordelaise  Sauce 

•  •  •  •  •  • 

12 

Bourguignonne  Sauce 

•••  •••  •••  ••• 

13 

Catalane  Sauce 

C 

•••  •••  •••  ••• 

20 

Chasseur  Sauce 

•••  •••  ...  ... 

14 

Cherry  Chutney 

•••  • • •  •••  ••• 

34 

Cherry  Cups . 

•••  •••  •••  ••• 

38 

Cherries  a  la  Jubile... 

•••  •••  •••  ••• 

37 

Chevreuil  Sauce 

•••  •••  •••  ••• 

30 

Chicken  Livers  a  la  Sauce  Chasseur  . 

17 

Chicken  Saute  a  la  Sauce 

Robert  . 

32 

Chicken  Saute  a  la  Sauce  Chasseur 

Chutney  . 

•  •  •  •••  ••• 

34 

Cumberland  Sauce  ... 

•••  •••  • .  •  ... 

33 

Curry  Sauce . 

•••  •••  ••• 

24 

4s 


D 

Derby  Sauce... 

Diable  Sauce 

E 

Eggs  Catalane 
Espagnole  Sauce 
Estouffade  Sauce 


Page 

29 

...  29  &  30 

21 

12 

28 


F 

Favorite  Sauce 

Fish  a  l’Americaine . 

G 

Genevoise  Sauce 
Gherkins 
Green  Sauce... 


Horseradish  Sauce  ... 


H 


Ideal  Sauce  ... 


Kidney  Sautes 


I 

K 

L 


Lasagnes 

Lobster  a  l’Americaine 
Lobster  a  la  Carlton 
Lobster  a  la  Catalane 


33 

20 


13 

35 

25 


35 

33 


16 


27 

18 

9 


49 


M 


Macaroni  . 

Macaroni  a  la  Napolitaine... 
Melba  Sauce . 


N 

Noisettes  of  Lamb  a  la  Chasseur 

O 

Omelette  a  la  Catalane  . 

P 

Paprika  Sauce  . 

Piccalilli 

Pickles  . 

Pimentos 
Piquante  Sauce 
Poivrade  Sauce 
Portugaise  Sauce 
Potatoes  en  Surprise 

Prawns  a  l’Orientale  . 

Prawns  a  la  Sicilienne  . 

Proven£ale  Sauce . 

R 

Rabbit  Saute  a  la  Sauce  Robert.. 

Rice  Pilaw . 

Robert  Sauce  . 


50 


i Jr*. 


S 


Salmis  of  Game 
Soles  (Filleted)  Catalane 
Sole  au  Gratin 
Soles  Devilled 

Soups . ! 

Spaghetti  . 

Supreme  Sauce  ... 


Timbale  of  Lobster  a  l’Americaine 
1  ournedos  a  la  Chasseur  ... 
Tyrolienne  Sauce  . 


Veal  Saute  a  la  Sauce  Robert 
Veloute  or  Blonde  Sauce  ... 

Vermicelli  . 


) 


! 

/ 


.  f 
/ 


