777/5 


Conservation  Resources 
Lig-Free®  Typel 
Ph  8.S,  Buffered 


T  X 

7*5 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS,  j 

Shelf ...  X$35 

UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


ALL  PERSONS  ARE  CAUTIONED  NOT  TO  PAY  FOR  THIS  BOOK.  THIS  EDITION 
OF  50,000  COPIES  IS  PUBLISHED  FOR  FREE  CIRCULATION  ONLY. 


[Copyright  Secured.) 


FIFTEEN  GENT  DINNERS 


WORKINGMEN'S  FAMILIES. 


This  little  book  may  not  be  a  welcome  guest  in  the  home  of  the 
man  who  fares  abundantly  every  day;  it  is  not  written  for  him;  but 
to  the  working  man,  who  wants  to  make  the  best  of  his  wages,  I 
pray  it  may  bring  help  and  comfort. 

JULIET  CORSON. 


2 


Benevolent  Societies,  or  individuals,  can  obtain  this 
pamphlet  for  free  distribution,  at  cost  of  publication,  by 
addressing 

Miss  Juliet  Corson, 

New  York  Cooking  School, 
No.  8  St.  Mark's  Place,  New  York. 


ALL  PERSONS  ARE  CAUTIONED  NOT  TO  PAY  FOR  THIS  BOOK.  THIS  EDITION 
OF  50,000  COPIES  IS  PUBLISHED  FOR  FREE  CIRCULATION  ONLY, 


FIFTEEN  CENT  DINNERS 

FOP 

FAMILIES  OF  SIX. 

BY 

JULIET  CORSON, 
i  » 

Super  intend  en  t  of  the  j\Teio  York  Cooking  School. 


AUTHOR  OF 

*«  The  Cooking  Manual;"  "  Our  Household  Council;"  "  Foods: 
Their  Sources,  Uses  and  Methods  of  Preparation;" 
"The  Bill  of  Fare,  with  Accompanying  Receipts 
and  Estimated  Cost;"  "A  Text-Book  for 
Cooking  Schools;"  Twenty-Five 
Cent  Dinners  for  Fam- 
ilies of  Six,"  Etc. 


Published  by  the  Author  for  free  circulation  among  the  families  of  workingmen  earning 
One  Dollar  and  Fifty  Cents,  or  less,  per  day. 


NEW  YORK. 


Oopjnciglit  "by  JULIET  CORSON, 
1877. 

All  Kiglits  Reserved. 


Please  take  notice. — All  persons  are  warned  against  infringement 
of  Copyright. 


PREFACE. 


To  the  Wives  of  Workingmen  : 

In  planning  how  to  make  the  wages  of  the  working  man  provide 
his  family  with  the  necessaries  of  life,  the  first  point  to  be  considered 
is  the  daily  supply  of  food.  If  this  little  book  shows  the  laborer's 
wife  how  to  feed  her  husband  and  children  upon  one  half,  or  one 
third,  or  even,  in  times  of  great  distress,  upon  the  whole  of  his  scanty 
wages,  its  object  will  be  accomplished. 

The  cheapest  kinds  of  food  are  sometimes  the  most  wholesome  and 
strengthening;  but  in  order  to  obtain  all  their  best  qualities  we  must 
know  how  to  choose  them  for  their  freshness,  goodness,  and  suitability 
to  our  needs.  That  done,  we  must  see  how  to  cook  them,  so  as  to 
make  savory  and  nutritous  meals  instead  of  tasteless  or  sodden  messes, 
the  eating  whereof  sends  the  man  to  the  liquor  shop  for  consolation. 

Good  food,  properly  cooked,  gives  us  good  blood,  sound  bones, 
healthy  brains,  strong  nerves,  and  firm  flesh,  to  say  nothing  of  good 
tempers  and  kind  hearts.  These  are  surely  worth  a  little  trouble  to 
secure. 

The  first  food  of  nearly  all  living  creatures  is  milk,  the  only  entire 
natural  food;  that  is,  the  only  food  upon  which  health  and  strength 
can  be  sustained  for  any  length  of  time,  without  using  any  other  nour- 
ishment. For  this  reason  it  is  the  best  food  you  can  give  the  children 
if  you  must  restrict  their  diet  at  all;  and  it  also  is  a  valuable  addition 
to  the  food  of  grown  persons.  While  this  fact  about  milk  is  settled,  it 
is  generally  acknowledged  by  people  who  study  the  subject  that  we 
thrive  best  on  a  variety.  We  get  warmth  and  strength  from  fat  meat, 
wheat,  rye,  barley,  rice,  milk,  sugar,  fruit,  peas,  beans,  lentils,  macaro- 
ni, and  the  roots  of  vegetables;  we  gain  flesh  from  lean  meat,  unbolted 
flour,  oatmeal,  eggs,  cheese,  and  green  vegetables;  and,  if  we  want  to 
think  clearly,  we  must  use  fish,  poultry,  the  different  grains,  and  a 
good  variety  of  fruit  and  vegetables. 

The  food  most  generally  in  use  among  the  masses  is  just  that  which 
meets  their  requirements.  No  hungry  man  will  spend  money  for  what 
he  knows  will  not  satisfy  his  appetite.  For  that  reason  the  receipts 
given  in  this  book  treat  of  the  articles  in  common  use  among  the  work- 
ing classes,  with  the  exception  of  lentils  and  macaroni,  which  are  foods 

(v.) 


vi. 


PREFACE. 


that  I  earnestly  beg  them  to  try.  In  meals  made  up  of  bacon,  pota- 
toes, and  bread,  of  corned  beef  and  cabbage,  and  of  pork  and  beans, 
there  exists  an  equal  and  sufficient  amount  of  nourishment;  but  if  other 
dishes  are  added  to  these,  the  variety  will  result  in  better  general 
health  and  contentment.  If  we  were  to  live  day  after  day  on  rice, 
bread,  potatoes,  or  any  one  other  article  of  food,  we  would  not  long 
be  strong  enough  for  any  kind  of  work.  In  matters  of  diet  variety  is 
not  only  the  spice  of  life ;  it  is  the  necessity. 

In  estimating  the  cost  of  these  receipts  I  have  naturally  supposed 
that  the  family  consists  of  father,  mother,  and  children  of  different 
ages,  and  not  of  six  adults;  for  them  the  quantities  given  would,  of 
course,  be  insufficient.  I  allow  a  meat  dinner  every  day;  but  in  order 
to  have  this  the  meat  itself  must  generally  be  used  one  day,  with  bread 
or  vegetables,  and  the  next  day  the  breakfast  must  be  the  broth  or  juice 
of  the  meat,  which,  if  prepared  according  to  my  directions,  will  afford 
equal  nourishment. 

I  wish  to  call  your  attention  to  the  following  important  fact.  The 
hardy  and  thrifty  working  classes  of  France,  the  country  where  the 
most  rigid  economy  in  regard  to  food  is  practiced,  never  use  tea  or  cof- 
fee for  breakfast,  and  seldom  use  milk.  Their  food  and  drink  is  broth. 
Not  the  broth  from  fresh  meat,  for  they  do  not  often  eat  that;  but  that 
which  is  made  from  vegetables,  and  perhaps  a  bit  of  bacon  or  salt  pork. 
I  ask  you  to  try  for  dinner,  supper,  and  the  next  morning's  breakfast, 
the  three  receipts  in  Chapter  VI,  for  44  Salt  Pot-au-feu,"  * 4  Rice 
and  Broth,"  and  "  Bread  Broth;"  and  then  let  me  know  how  you 
like  them,  and  how  far  they  go  towards  satisfying  your  hunger,  and 
giving  you  strength. 

In  calculating  the  cost  of  the  receipts  I  give  you,  I  have  used  the 
retail  prices  asked  in  Washington  market,  and  in  ordinary  grocery 
stores,  at  this  season  of  the  year;  the  average  is  about  the  same  as  that 
of  past  years,  and  probably  will  not  change  much;  so  that  I  believe  I 
have  not  placed  too  low  an  estimate  upon  them. 

With  these  words  of  explanation,  I  send  my  little  book  to  do  its 
work  among  those  who  most  need  its  ministrations. 

JULIET  CORSON. 

New  York  Cooking  School. 
August,  1877. 


DAILY  BILLS  OF  FARE  FOR  ONE  WEEK. 


(  Breakfast:  Boiled  Rice  with  Scalded  Milk. .  15  1 

Monday  1  Dinner:  Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage   10 

(  Supper:  Peas  boiled  in  Stock. ,   10  ] 


35 


(Breakfast:  Broth  and  Bread   10  j 

Tuesday  ■]  Dinner:  Baked  Beans   10 

(  Supper:  Macaroni  with  Cheese   12  J 


f  Breakfast:  Toasted  Bread  and  Scalded  Milk. 

Wednesday.  1  Dinner;  Stewed  Tripe  

(  Supper:  Polenta  


32 


33 


(Breakfast:  Rice  Panada   12] 

Thursday.  .  1  Dinner:  Salt  Pot-au-feu   10 

(  Supper:  Lentils  stewed  in  Stock   10] 


32 


Friday. 


Breakfast:  Broth  and  Bread   10] 

Dinner:  Mutton  and  Turnips   10 

Supper:  Barley  boiled  in  Broth  . . . . ,  10  ] 


30 


Saturday. 


Breakfast:  Mutton  Broth  and  Bread   10  j 

Dinner:  Beef  and  Potatoes   10 

Supper:  Beans  boiled  in  Broth   10  J 


30 


Sunday. 


Breakfast:  Cocoa  and  Bread   7 

Fried  Lentils  ,  10 

Dinner:  Bean  Broth   10 

Haslet  Stew   10 

Suet  Roly-poly  Pudding   12 

Supper:  Cheese  Pudding   12 


61 


Total. 


$2  53 


This  leaves  a  balance  of  sixty-two  (62)  cents  for  extra  breads 
milk,  and  butter. 


8 


CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER  I. 
Rides  for  Marketing, 

Page. 

How  to  choose  the  second  quality  of  food — Beef — Mutton — 

Lamb — Veal— Pork— Poultry — Fish — Vegetables— Fruit . .  10 


CHAPTER  II. 

How  to  Cook,  Season,  and  Measure* 

Roasting  or  Baking — Broiling — Boiling  and  Stewing — Frying — 
Cooking  Salt  and  Smoked  Meats. — Seasoning  food — Dried 
Celery  and  Parsley — Dried  Herbs — Table  Sauce — Celery 
Salt — Spice  Salt — Lemon,  Orange,  and  Vanilla  Tinc- 
tures— Table  for  Measuring  food   14 


CHAPTER  IIL 
Drinks. 

Tea — Coffee— Cocoa — Beer — Barley  Water — Milk   19 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Breads  Rice,  and  Macaroni, 

Homemade  Bread — Rice  Bread — Potato  Bread — Rice — Rice 
Panada — ■  Boiled  Rice — Macaroni — Macaroni,  Farmers' 
style — Macaroni  with  Broth — Macaroni  with  White  Sauce — 
Macaroni  with  Cheese   22 


CHAPTER  V. 

Peas,  Beans,  Lentils,  and  Maize, 

Pea  Soup — Thick  Pea  Soup — Oatmeal  and  Peas— Peas  Pud- 
ding— Bean  Soup — Baked  Beans— Lentil  Soup — Boiled 
Lentils — Stewed  Lentils — Fried  Lentils — Maize — Polenta- 
Cheese  Pudding  ,   26 


9 

CHAPTER  VI. 
Cheap  Meat  Dinners. 

Page. 

Salt  Pot-au-feu— Rice  and  Broth — Bread  Broth—Corned  Beef 
and  Peas — Fresh  Beef  and  Potatoes — Mutton  and  Turnips — 
Haslet  Stew — Stewed  Tripe — Scotch  Crowdie   30 

CHAPTER  VII. 
Cheap  Puddings, 

Suet  Roly-poly — Molasses   Roly-poly — Currant  Roly-poly — 

Rice  Pudding — Spotted  Dick  Pudding   32 

CHAPTER  VIII. 
A  Dollar  Christmas  Dinner. 

Plum  Pudding  —  Roast  Turkey  —  Baked  Potatoes  —  Apple 

Sauce — Cream  Sauce   33 


I© 


CHAPTER  L 

Rules  for  Marketing, 

In  my  other  cookery  books  I  give  directions  for  marketing  for  the 
the  best  cuts  of  meat,  and  the  choicest  vegetables;  but  these  cost 
the  most  money,  and  I  must  tell  you  how  to  choose  cheap  and 
good  food. 

Beef. — The  second  quality  of  beef  has  rather  whitish  fat,  laid 
moderately  thick  upon  the  back,  and  about  the  kidneys  ;  the  flesh 
is  close-grained,  having  but  few  streaks  of  fat  running  through  it, 
and  is  of  a  pale  red  color,  and  covered  with  a  rough,  yellowish  skin. 
Poor  beef  is  dark  red,  gristly,  and  tough  to  the  touch,  with  a  scanty 
layer  of  soft,  oily  fat.  Buy  meat  as  cheap  as  you  can,  but  be  sure  it 
is  fresh  ;  slow  and  long  cooking  will  make  tough  meat  tender,  but 
tainted  meat  is  only  fit  to  throw  away.  Never  use  it.  You  would  by 
doing  so  invite  disease  to  enter  the  home  where  smiling  health  should 
reign.  The  best  way  to  detect  taint  in  any  kind  of  meat  is  to  run 
a  sharp,  thin  knife-blade  close  to  the  bone,  and  then  smell  it  to  see 
if  the  odor  is  sweet.  Wipe  the  knife  after  you  use  it.  A  small,  sharp 
wooden  skewer  will  answer,  but  it  must  be  scraped  every  time  it  is 
used.  If,  when  you  are  doubtful  about  a  piece  of  meat,  the  butcher 
refuses  to  let  you  apply  this  test  carefully  enough  to  avoid  injuring 
the  meat,  you  will  be  safe  in  thinking  he  is  afraid  of  the  result. 

Mutton. — The  flesh  of  the  second  quality  of  mutton  is  dark  red 
and  close-grained,  with  very  few  threads  of  fat  running  through 
it  :  the  fat  is  rather  soft,  and  is  laid  thin  on  the  back  and  kidneys, 
closely  adhering  to  them.  The  poorest  healthy  quality  has  very 
pale  flesh,  and  thin  white  fat,  and  the  meat  parts  easily  from  the 
bone.  Diseased  mutton  has  decidedly  yellow  fat,  and  very  soft 
flesh,  of  loose  texture.  Tainted  mutton  smells  bad  ;  test  it  as  you 
would  beef. 

Lamb. — A  carcass  of  lamb  should  weigh  about  twenty-five 
pounds  before  it  is  old  enough  to  be  wholesome  and  nourishing  food  • 


1 1 


before  it  has  reached  that  age  it  is  watery  and  deficient  in  the  ele- 
ments of  strength  ;  at  any  age  it  is  a  more  suitable  food  for  women 
and  children  than  for  healthy  men.  The  flesh  of  the  second  quality 
of  lamb  is  soft,  and  rather  red,  compared  with  the  pinkish- white  meat 
of  choice  kinds  ;  the  fat  is  more  scanty,  and  the  general  appearance 
coarser.  The  poorest  lamb  has  yellow  fat,  and  lean,  flabby,  red 
meat,  which  keeps  but  a  short  time.  Test  the  freshness  of  lamb  by 
touching  the  kidney-fal ;  if  it  is  soft  and  moist  the  meat  is  on  the 
verge  of  spoiling  ;  a  bad  smell  indicates  that  it  is  already  tainted  ; 
it  is  utterly  unfit  for  use. 

Veal. — The  flesh  of  the  second  quality  of  veal  is  red  in  contrast 
with  the  pinkish -white  color  of  the  prime  sort  ;  and  the  fat  is  whiter, 
coarser-grained,  and  less  abundant.  The  poorest  kind  has  decidedly 
red  flesh,  and  very  little  kidney  fat.  The  neck  is  the  first  part  that 
taints,  and  it  can  easily  be  tested  ;  the  loin  is  just  spoiling  when  the 
kidney-fat  begins  to  grow  soft  and  clammy. 

Read  this  sentence  about  bob-veal  carefully,  and  be  sure  to 
remember  it.  It  is  the  flesh  of  calves  killed  when  two  or  three 
weeks  old,  or  that  of  "deaconed  calves,"  which  are  killed 
almost  as  soon  as  they  are  born,  for  the  value  of  their  skins.  This 
practice  cannot  be  too  harshly  condemned  as  a  criminal  waste  of 
food;  for  a  stock  raiser,  or  farmer,  who  knows  his  business  can  feed 
his  calves  until  they  reach  a  healthy  maturity,  without  serio*  \y  inter- 
fering with  his  supply  of  milk.  The  flesh  of  bob-veal  is  a  soft,  flabby, 
sticky  substance,  of  a  ropy,  gelatinous  nature;  and,  being  the  first 
flesh,  unchanged  by  the  health-giving  action  of  air  and  food,  it  is  de- 
void of  the  elements  necessary  to  transform  it  into  wholesome  food  It 

SHOULD  NEVER  BE  EATEN. 

Pork- — The  second  quality  of  pork  has  rather  hard,  red  flesh,  and 
yellowish  fat.  The  poorest  kind  has  dark,  coarse  grained  meat,  soft 
fat,  and  discoloured  kidneys.  The  flesh  of  stale  pork  is  moist  and 
clammy,  and  its  smell  betrays  its  condition.  Measly  pork  has  little 
kernels  in  the  fat,  and  is  unhealtrr*  and  dangerous  food.  After  test- 
ing, as  you  would  beef,  so  as  to  see  if  it  is  fresh,  and  making  sure  that 
it  is  not  measly,  we  have  still  to  dread  the  presence  of  trichina,  a 
dangerous  parasite  present  in  the  flesh  of  some  hogs.  The  surest  pre- 
vention of  danger  from  this  cause  is  thorough  cooking,  which  destroys 
any  germs  that  may  exist  in  the  meat.    Cook  your  pork  until  it  is 


12 


crisp  and  brown,  by  a  good,  steady  fire,  or  in  boiling  water,  at  least 
twenty  minutes  to  each  pound.  Pork  eaten  in  cold  weather,  or  moder- 
ately in  summer,  alternately  with  other  meats,  is  a  palatable  and  nutri- 
tious food.  It  has  a  hard  fibre,  and  needs  to  be  thoroughly  chewed  in 
order  to  be  perfectly  digested;  for  that  reason  it  should  be  sparingly 
used  by  the  young  and  the  very  old.  The  least  fat  is  found  in  the  leg, 
which  contains  an  excess  of  flesh-forming  elements,  and  resembles  lean 
beef  in  composition;  the  most  fat  is  in  the  face  and  belly.  When  cur- 
ed as  bacon  it  readily  takes  on  the  anti-septic  action  of  salt  and  smoke, 
and  becomes  a  valuable  adjunct  to  vegetable  food,  as  well  as  a  pleas- 
ant relish;  and  in  this  shape  it  is  one  of  the  most  important  articles  in 
general  use. 

Poultry. — As  a  little  feast  is  only  a  reasonable  anticipation  for 
Christmas,  some  rules  for  buying  the  different  sorts,  and  a  few  simple 
receipts  for  cooking  them  palatably,  will  not  come  amiss. 

Fresh  poultry  may  be  known  by  its  full  bright  eyes,  pliable  feet, 
and  soft  moist  skin;  the  best  is  plump,  fat,  and  nearly  white,  and  the 
grain  of  the  flesh  is  fine.  The  feet  and  neck  of  a  young  fowl  are  large 
in  proportion  to  its  size,  and  the  tip  of  the  breast-bone  is  soft,  and  easi- 
ly bent  between  the  fingers;  a  young  cock,  has  soft,  loose  spurs, 
and  a  long,  full,  bright  red  comb;  old  fowls  have  long,  thin  necks 
and  feet,  and  the  flesh  on  the  legs  and  back  has  a  purplish  shade; 
chickens,  and  fowls,  are  always  in  season. 

Turkeys  when  good  are  white  and  plump,  have  full  breasts  and 
smooth  legs,  generally  black,  with  soft  loose  spurs;  hen  turkeys  are 
smaller,  fatter,  and  plumper,  but  of  inferior  flavor;  full  grown  turkeys 
are  the  best  for  boiling,  as  they  do  not  tear  in  dressing;  old  turkeys 
have  long  hairs,  and  the  flesh  is  purplish  where  it  shows  under  the 
skin  on  the  legs  and  back.    About  March  they  deteriorate  in  quality. 

Young  ducks  and  geese  are  plump,  with  light,  semi-transparent 
fat,  soft  breast-bone,  tender  flesh,  leg  joints  which  will  break  by  the 
weight  of  the  bird,  fresh  colored  and  brittle  beaks,  and  windpipes  that 
break  when  pressed  between  the  thumb  and  forefinger.  1'hey  are  best 
in  fall  and  winter. 

Young  pigeons  have  light  red  flesh  upon  the  breast,  and  full,  fresh 
colored  legs;  when  the  legs  are  thin,  and  the  breast  is  very  dark,  the 
birds  are  old. 


13 


The  giblets  of  poultry  consist  of  the  head,  neck,  wings,  feet,  giz- 
zard, heart,  and  liver;  and  make  good  soups,  fricassees,  and  pies. 

Fish. — Although  fish  contains  more  water  and  less  solid  nutriment 
than  meat,  it  is  generally  useful  from  its  abundance  and  cheapness; 
and  certain  kinds  which  are  called  red-blooded,  such  as  salmon  and 
sturgeon,  are  nearly  as  nourishing  as  fresh  meat:  oily  fish,  such  as  eels, 
mackerel,  and  herring,  satisfy  hunger  as  completely  as  meat;  herring* 
especially,  makes  the  people  who  eat  it  largely  strong  and  sinewy* 
Sea  fish  are  more  nourishing  than  fresh  water  varieties. 

Sea  fish,  and  those  which  live  in  both  salt  and  fresh  water,  such 
as  salmon,  shad,  and  smelts,  are  the  finest  flavored  ;  the  muddy  taste 
of  some  fresh  water  species  can  be  overcome  by  soaking  them  in  cold 
water  and  salt  for  two  hours  or  more  before  cooking  ;  all  kinds  are 
best  just  before  spawning,  the  flesh  becoming  poor  and  watery  after 
that  period.  Fresh  fish  have  firm  flesh,  rigid  fins,  bright,  clear  eyes, 
and  ruddy  gills. 

Oysters,  clams,  scallops,  and  mussels,  should  be  eaten  very  fresh, 
as  they  soon  lose  their  flavor  after  being  removed  from  the  shell. 

Lobsters  and  crabs  should  be  chosen  by  their  brightness  of  color, 
lively  movement,  and  great  weight  in  proportion  to  their  size ;  you 
ought  always  to  buy  them  alive,  and  put  them  head-first  into  a  large 
pot  of  boiling  water,  containing  a  handful  of  salt  ;  they  will  cook  in 
about  twenty  minutes. 

Vegetables. — In  order  to  be  healthy  we  must  eat  some  fresh  veget- 
ables ;  they  are  cheap  and  nourishing,  especially  onions  and  cab- 
bages. Peas,  beans,  and  lentils,  all  of  which  are  among  the  lowest 
priced  of  foods,  are  invaluable  in  the  diet  of  a  laboring  man  :  he  can 
get  so  much  nourishment  out  of  them  that  he  hardly  needs  meat  ;  and 
if  they  are  cooked  in  the  water  which  has  been  used  for  boiling  meat, 
they  make  the  healthiest  kind  of  a  meal. 

All  juicy  vegetables  should  be  very  fresh  and  crisp  ;  and  if  a  little 
wilted,  can  be  restored  by  being  sprinkled  with  water  and  laid  in  a 
cool,  dark  place  ;  all  roots  and  tubers  should  be  pared  and  laid  in 
cold  water  an  hour  or  more  before  using.  Green  vegetables  are  best 
just  before  they  flower ;  and  roots  and  tubers  are  prime  from  their 
ripening  until  they  begin  to  sprout. 

When  it  is  possible  buy  your  vegetables  by  the  quantity,  from  the 
farmers,  or  market-gardeners,  or  at  the  market ;  you  will  save  more 


14 


than  half.  Potatoes  now  cost  at  Washington  Market  from  one  to 
one  dollar  and  a  half  a  barrel  ;  there  are  three  bushels  in  a  barrel, 
and  thirty-two  quarts  in  a  bushel  ;  now  at  the  groceries  you  pay 
fifteen  cents  a  half  peck,  or  four  cents  a  quart ;  that  makes  your  barrel 
of  potatoes  cost  you  three  dollars  and  sixty-three  cents,  if  you  buy 
half  a  peck  at  a  time  ;  or  three  dollars  and  eighty-four  cents  if  you 
buy  by  the  quart.  So  you  see  if  you  could  buy  a  barrel  at  once  you 
could  save  more  than  one  half  of  your  money.  It  is  worth  while  to 
try  and  save  enough  to  do  it. 

Fmit. — Fresh  fruit  is  a  very  important  food,  especially  for  chil- 
dren, as  it  keeps  the  blood  pure,  and  the  bowels  regular.  Next  to 
grains  and  seeds,  it  contains  the  greatest  amount  of  nutriment  to  a 
given  quantity.  Apples  are  more  wholesome  than  any  other  fruit, 
and  plentiful  and  cheap  two-thirds  of  the  time  ;  they  nourish,  cool, 
and  strengthen  the  body.  In  Europe  laborers  depend  largely  upon 
them  for  nourishment,  and,  if  they  have  plenty,  they  can  do  well 
without  meat.  They  miss  apples  much  more  than  potatoes,  for  they 
are  much  more  substantial  food. 

All  fruit  should  be  bought  ripe  and  sound  ;  it  is  poor  economy  to 
buy  imperfect  or  decayed  kinds,  as  they  are  neither  satisfactory  nor 
healthy  eating  ;  while  the  mature,  full-flavored  sorts  are  invaluable 
as  food. 

Preserved  and  dried  fruits  are  luxuries  to  be  indulged  in  only  at 
festivals,  or  holidays.  Nuts  are  full  of  nutritious  oil,  but  are  generally 
hard  to  digest  ;  they  do  not  come  under  the  head  of  the  necessities 
of  life. 

CHAPTER  II. 
How  to  Cook,  Season,  and  Measure. 

Before  beginning  to  give  you  receipts,  I  wish  to  tell  you  about  the 
effect  of  cooking  food  in  different  ways.  We  all  want  it  cooked  so  that 
we  can  eat  it  easily,  and  get  the  most  strength  from  it,  without  wasting 
any  part  of  it.  I  will  tell  you  some  very  good  reasons  for  making 
soup  and  stew  out  of  your  meat  instead  of  cooking  it  in  any  other  way. 

Boasting  Or  Baking* -™The  first  is  the  most  extravagant  way  of 


15 


cooking  meal,  as  it  wastes  nearly  one  third  of  its  substance  in  drip- 
pings and  steam;  the  second  is  also  very  wasteful,  unless  the  meat  is 
surrounded  with  vegetables,  or  covered  with  a  flour  paste.  When  you 
do  bake  meat  without  a  covering  of  paste,  put  it  into  a  hot  oven  at  the 
start,  to  crisp  the  outside  and  to  keep  in  the  valuable  juices;  you  can 
moderate  the  heat  of  the  oven  as  soon  as  the  meat  is  brown,  and  let  it 
finish  cooking  slowly  by  the  heat  of  the  steam  which  is  constantly 
forming  inside  of  it.  It  generally  takes  twenty  minutes  to  bake  each 
pound  of  meat. 

Broiling. — This  is  another  extravagant*  way  of  cooking  meat,  for  a 
great  deal  of  the  fat  runs  into  the  fire,  and  some  nourishment  escapes 
up  the  chimney  with  the  steam.  If  you  must  broil  meat,  have  your  fire 
hot  and  clear,  and  your  gridiron  perfectly  clean;  and,  unless  it  has  a 
ledge  to  hold  the  drippings,  tip  it  towards  the  back  of  the  fire,  so  that 
the  fat  will  burn  there,  and  not  blacken  the  meat  as  it  would  if  the 
gridiron  were  laid  flat,  and  the  fat  could  burn  under  the  meat.  Never 
stick  a  fork  into  broiled  meat  to  turn  it;  and  do  not  cut  it  to  see  if  it  is 
done ;  for  if  you  do  either  you  will  let  out  the  juice.  Study  the  follow- 
ing table,  and  .n  remember  how  near  the  time  given  in  it  comes  to 
cooking  accora.ng  to  your  taste.  Fish  will  broil  in  from  five  to  ten 
minutes;  birds  and  poultry  in  from  three  to  fifteen  minutes;  chops  in 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  and  steak  in  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes. 

Boilillg  and  Stewing. — Boiling  food  slowly,  or  stewing  it  gently, 
saves  all  its  goodness.  After  the  pot  once  boils  you  cannot  make  its  con- 
tents cook  any  faster  if  you  have  fire  enough  under  it  to  run  a  steam 
engine;  so  save  your  fuel,  and  add  it  to  the  fire,  little  by  little,  only 
enough  at  a  time  to  keep  the  pot  boiling.  Remember,  if  you  boil  meat 
hard  and  fast  it  will  be  tough  and  tasteless,  and  most  of  its  goodness 
will  go  up  the  chimney,  or  out  of  the  window,  with  the  steam.  Boil 
the  meat  gently,  and  keep  it  covered  close  to  save  the  steam;  it  will 
condense  on  the  inside  of  the  cover,  and  fall  back  in  drops  of  moisture 
upon  the  meat. 

The  following  table  shows  how  much  is  wasted  in  the  different 
ways  of  cooking  we  have  just  spoken  of.  Four  pounds  of  beef  waste  in 
boiling  or  stewing,  about  one  pound  of  substance,  but  you  have  it  all 
in  the  broth  if  you  have  kept  the  pot  covered  tightly;  in  baking  one 
pound  and  a  quarter  is  almost  entirely  lost  unless  you  have  plenty  of 
vegetables  in  the  dripping  pan  to  absorb  and  preserve  it;  in  roasting 


i6 

before  the  fire  you  lose  nearly  one  pound  and  a  half.  Do  not  think  you 
save  the  waste  in  the  shape  of  drippings;  it  is  poor  economy  to  buy  fat 
at  the  price  of  meat  merely  for  the  pleasure  of  trying  it  out, 

Prying. — This  is  a  very  good  method  of  cooking  fish,  and  of 
warming  cold  meat  and  vegetables.  To  fry  well  put  into  your  fry- 
ing pan  enough  fat  to  cover  what  you  mean  to  fry,  and  let  it  get 
smoking  hot,  but  do  not  bum  it  ;  then  put  in  your  food,  and  it  will 
not  soak  fat,  and  will  generally  be  done  by  the  time  it  is  nicely 
browned.  To  saute  or  half-fry  any  article,  you  should  begin  by 
putting  in  the  pan  enough  fat  to  cover  the  bottom,  and  let  it  get 
smoking  hot,  but  not  burn,  before  you  put  in  the  food.  This  also  is 
a  good  way  to  warm  over  meat,  vegetables,  oatmeal,  or  pudding. 

A  very  good  way  to  cook  meat  and  vegetables  together  is  to  put 
them  in  an  earthen  jar,  cover  it  tightly,  and  cement  the  cover  on  with 
flour  paste  ;  then  bake  for  about  four  hours. 

If  you  are  going  to  use  a  piece  of  meat  cold  do  not  cut  it  until  it 
cools,  and  it  will  be  more  juicy.  If  the  meat  is  salt  let  it  cool  in  its 
own  pot  liquor,  for  the  same  reason. 

Salt  and  Smoked  Meats. — These  meats  are  best  when  they  are 
put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water,  brought  gradually  to  a  boil,  and  then 
set  back  from  the  fierce  heat  of  the  fire,  so  as  to  keep  scalding  hot 
WITHOUT  BOILING  ;  they  take  longer  to  cook  this  way,  but  they  are 
tender  and  delicious,  and  very  little  fat  is  wasted. 

Seasoning  Food. — Many  people  have  the  idea  that  a  finely  flavored 
dish  must  cost  a  great  deal ;  that  is  a  mistake  ;  if  you  have  untainted 
meat,  or  sound  vegetables,  or  even  Indian  meal,  to  begin  with,  you 
can  make  it  delicious  with  proper  seasoning.  One  reason  why  French 
cooking  is  so  much  nicer  than  any  other  is  that  it  is  seasoned  with  a 
great  variety  of  herbs  and  spices  ;  these  cost  very  little  ;  if  you  would 
buy  a  few  cents'  worth  at  a  time  you  would  soon  have  a  good 
assortment.  The  best  kinds  are  Sage,  Thyme,  Sweet  Marjoram, 
Tarragon,  Mint,  Sweet  Basil,  Parsley,  Bay-leaves,  Cloves,  Mace, 
Celery-seed,  and  Onions.  If  you  will  plant  the  seed  of  any  of  the 
seven  first  mentioned  in  little  boxes  on  your  window  sill,  or  in  a  sunny 
spot  in  the  yard,  you  can  generally  raise  all  you  need.  Gather  and 
dry  them  as  follows  ;  parsley  and  tarragon,  should  be  dried  in  June 
and  July,  just  before  flowering  ;  mint  in  June  and  July  ;  thyme, 
marjoram  and  savory  in  July  and  August ;  basil  and  sage  in  August 


*7 


and  September ;  all  herbs  should  be  gathered  in  the  sun-shine,  and 
dried  by  artificial  heat ;  their  flavor  is  best  preserved  by  keeping  them 
in  air-tight  tin  cans,  or  in  tightly  corked  glass  bottles. 

Dried  Celery  and  Parsley. — if  you  ever  use  celery,  wash  the 

leaves,  stalks,  roots  and  trimmings,  and  put  them  in  a  cool  oven  to 
dry  thoroughly  ;  then  grate  the  root,  and  rub  the  leaves  and  stalks 
through  a  seive,  and  put  all  into  a  tightly  corked  bottle,  or  tin  can 
with  close  cover  ;  this  makes  a  most  delicious  seasoning  for  soups, 
stews,  and  stuffing.  When  you  use  parsley,  save  every  bit  of  leaf, 
stalk,  or  root,  you  do  not  need,  and  treat  them  in  the  same  way  as  the 
celery.  Remember  in  using  parsley  that  the  root  has  even  a  stronger 
flavor  than  the  leaves,  and  do  not  waste  a  bit. 

Dried  Herbs. — When  you  buy  a  bunch  of  dried  herbs  rub  the 
leaves  through  a  seive,  and  bottle  them  tightly  until  you  need  them  ; 
tie  the  stalks  together  and  save  them  until  you  want  to  make  what  the 
French  call  a  bouquet ,  for  a  soup  or  stew.  A  bouquet  of  herbs  is  made 
by  tying  together  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  thyme  and  two  bay-leaves. 
The  bay-leaves,  which  have  the  flavor  of  laurel,  can  be  bought  at  any 
German  grocery,  or  drug-store,  enough  to  last  for  a  long  time  for 
five  cents. 

Table  SaUC6. — There  is  no  reason  why  you  should  not  sometimes 
have  a  nice  relish  for  cold  meat  when  you  can  make  a  pint  of  it  for 
six  cents,  so  I  will  give  a  receipt  for  it.  Get  at  Washington  Market, 
at  the  herb  stand,  a  bunch  of  Tarragon  ;  it  will  cost  five  cents  in 
the  summer,  when  it  is  green  and  strong,  and  not  much  more  in  the 
winter  ;  put  it  in  an  earthen  bowl,  and  pour  on  it  one  pint  of  scalding 
hot  vinegar  ;  cover  it  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day  ;  then  strain 
it,  and  put  it  into  a  bottle  which  you  must  cork  tight.  Either  put 
more  hot  vinegar  on  the  tarragon,  or  dry  it,  and  save  it  until  you  want 
to  make  more  ;  you  can  make  a  gallon  of  sauce  from  one  bunch,  only 
every  time  you  use  it  you  must  let  it  stand  a  day  longer. 

Celery  Salt. — If  y°u  mix  celery  root,  which  has  been  dried  and 
grated  as  above,  with  one  fourth  its  quantity  of  salt,  it  makes  a  nice 
seasoning  and  keeps  a  long  time. 

Spice  Salt. — You  can  make  this  very  nicely  by  drying,  powdering 
and  mixing  by  repeated  siftings  the  following  ingredients  :  one  quarter 
of  an  ounce  each  of  powdered  thyme,  bay -leaf,  and  pepper ;  one 
eighth  of  an  ounce  each  of  marjoram  and  cayenne  pepper,  one  half 


i8 


of  an  ounce  each  of  powdered  clove  and  nutmeg  ;  to  every  four  ounces 
of  this  powder  add  one  ounce  of  salt,  and  keep  the  mixture  in  an  air- 
tight vessel.  One  ounce  of  it  added  to  three  pounds  of  stuffing,  or 
forcemeat  of  any  kind,  makes  a  delicious  seasoning. 

Lemon  and  Orange  Tincture. — Never  throw  away  lemon  or  orange 
peel;  cut  the  yellow  outside  off  carefully,  and  put  it  into  a  tightly 
corked  bottle  with  enough  alcohol  to  cover  it.  Let  it  stand  until  the 
alcohol  is  a  bright  yellow,  then  pour  it  off,  bottle  it  tight,  and  use  it 
for  flavoring  when  you  make  rice  pudding.  Add  lemon  and  alcohol  as 
often  as  you  have  it,  and  you  will  always  have  a  nice  flavoring. 

Vanilla  Tincture. —Make  this  from  a  broken  Vanilla  Bean,  just  as 
you  would  make  Lemon  Tincture.  When  you  make  a  plain  rice  pud- 
ding, and  when  you  boil  rice  with  sweetening,  put  a  teaspoonful  of 
either  of  these  tinctures  with  it,  and  it  will  be  very  good. 

Measuring. — Be  careful  about  measuring.  Do  not  think  you  can 
guess  just  right  every  time;  you  cannot  do  it.  One  day  the  dinner 
will  be  a  great  deal  better  than  another,  and  you  will  wonder  why; 
it  will  be  because  it  is  carefully  seasoned  and  properly  cooked.  A 
good  rule  for  seasoning  soups  and  stews,  is  half  an  ounce,  or  a  level 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  half  a  level  teaspoonful  of  pepper  to  each 
quart  of  water;  try  it,  if  it  is  right  you  will  know  how  much  to  use;  if 
it  is  not  right,  alter  it  to  to  suit  your  taste ;  but  settle  the  point  for 
once,  and  then  you  will  know  what  to  depend  upon.  The  following 
table  will  give  you  some  good  hints  about  measuring;  there  are  four 
teaspoonfuls  in  one  tablespoon;  one  tablespoonful  in  one  ounce;  two 
ounces  in  one  wineglassful;  two  wineglassfuls  in  one  gill;  two  gills  in 
one  good  sized  cupful;  two  cupfulsin  one  pint;  two  pints  in  one  quart. 
One  quart  of  sifted  flour,  thrown  into  the  measure,  and  shaken  down, 
but  not  pressed,  weighs  one  pound;  one  quart  of  Indian  corn  meal, 
shaken  down  in  the  measure  weighs  one  pound  and  three  ounces ;  one 
quart  of  fine  sugar  weighs  one  pound  and  a  half. 


19 


CHAPTER  III. 
Drinks. 

Jeai — The  habit  of  drinking  tea  is  so  general  that  the  poorest  often 
go  without  more  nourishing  food  to  save  money  enongh  to  buy  an 
ounce.  It  is  a  pleasant  drink  because  it  warms  and  exhilarates;  but  it 
is  a  luxury  because  it  does  not  give  strength;  and  therefore  it  is  extrav- 
agant to  use  it  when  we  are  pinched  for  healthy  food.  If,  however, 
we  think  only  of  our  feelings  and  not  of  our  general  health,  there  is 
this  use  in  tea  drinking:  it  keeps  us  from  getting  hungry  as  soon  as 
we  would  without  it.  The  sensation  of  hunger  is  nature's  sure  sign 
that  the  body  needs  a  new  supply  of  food,  because  the  last  has  given 
us  all  its  goodness;  the  change  of  the  nourishing  qualities  of  food 
into  strength  is  always  going  on  as  long  as  any  remains  in  the  system; 
now,  the  use  of  tea  hinders  this  change,  and  for  that  reason  we  are  not 
so  hungry  when  we  use  it,  as  when  we  do  without  it. 

Coffe©  has  nearly  the  same  effect  as  tea. 

Cocoa  makes  a  wholesome  and  nourishing  drink.  Let  us  count 
the  cost  of  these  beverages,  and  see  which  is  the  best  for  us. 

One  quart  of  weak  tea  can  be  made  from  three  teaspoonfuls,  or  half 
an  ounce,  of  tea,  (which  costs  at  least  one  cent;)  we  must  have  for  gen- 
eral use  a  gill  of  milk,  (at  one  cent,)  and  four  teaspoonfuls  or  one  ounce 
of  sugar,  (at  one  cent) ;  thus  if  we  use  only  the  above  quantities  of 
milk  and  sugar,  one  quart  of  tea  costs  three  cents;  if  we  increase  them 
it  will  cost  more. 

One  quart  of  weak  coffee  can  be  made  from  one  ounce,  or  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  coffee,  (at  a  cost  of  two  cents;)  two  tablespoonfuls  or  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  (two  cents,)  and  a  half  a  pint  of  milk,  (two  cents;)  the 
total  cost  six  cents,  v  ; 

One  quart  of  cocoa  can  be  made  from  two  ounces,  or  eight  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cocoa  shells,  (which  cost  two  cents,)  with  half  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  an  ounce  of  sugar,  (at  four  cents  more;)  we  have  a  quart  of 
good,  nutritious  drink  at  six  cents.    It  is  all  the  better  if  the  shells  are 


20 


boiled  two  or  three  hours.  Cocoa  nibs,  or  the  cocoa  beans  just 
crushed,  are  more  expensive  than  the  shells,  but  they  are  also  more 
nutritious. 

Beer. — Very  poor  families  sometimes  spend  every  day  for  beer 
enough  to  buy  them  a  good,  wholesome  meal,  because  they  think  it 
makes  them  strong.  Beer,  like  all  other  liquors,  is  of  no  value  whatever 
in  making  strength;  it  only  nerves  you  up  to  spend  all  you  can  muster 
under  the  excitement  it  causes,  and  then  leaves  you  weaker  than  be* 
fore.  What  you  need  when  you  crave  liquor  is  a  good,  warm  meal. 
The  best  doctors  say  that  a  man  cannot  drink  more  than  about  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  beer  a  day  without  injuring  his  health;  and  that  healthy 
people,  during  youth  and  middle  age,  do  not  need  it  at  all.  Let  it, 
and  all  other  liquors,  alone  entirely,  and  you  will  be  better  off  in  health 
and  purse. 

Beer  for  Nursing  Women. — It  is  generally  believed  that  women 
who  drink  malt  liquor  are  able  to  nurse  children  to  greater  advantage 
than  those  who  do  not  use  it.  The  fact  is  that  while  the  quantity  of 
milk  may  be  increased,  its  nourishing  quality  will  be  impaired.  There 
may  be  more  milk  for  the  child,  but  it  will  be  poor.  The  effect  of 
all  malt  liquor  is  to  promote  the  secretion  of  the  fluids  of  the  body,  but 
not  to  enrich  them.  Do  not  drink  beer  for  the  sake  of  your  child,  but 
try  milk,  or  milk  and  water  instead,  and  see  if  after  a  fair  trial  you  do 
not  have  plenty  for  the  baby,  and  if  it  does  not  grow  strong  and  fat. 
If  milk  does  not  agree  with  you,  or  you  cannot  afford  it,  use  barley 
water;  it  will  not  only  give  you  plenty  of  milk,  but  it  will  nourish  you 
as  well  as  the  baby.  You  will  get  from  it  all  the  nourishment  that 
you  may  fancy  you  get  from  malt  liquor,  with  this  advantage:  in  the 
barley  w^ater  you  will  get  all  the  nutriment  of  the  grain  unchanged, 
while  in  the  form  of  beer  the  fermentation  has  destroyed  part  of  it. 
The  following  is  a  good  receipt. 

Barley  Water. — Thoroughly  wash  two  ounces  of  pearl  barley, 
(which  costs  less  than  two  cents,)  to  remove  any  musty  or  bad  flavor, 
put  it  over  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  boil  it  until  it  is  re- 
duced to  one  quart;  then  strain  it,  cool  it,  and  drink  it  whenever  you 
are  thirsty.    A  little  sugar  can  be  used  without  hurting  the  baby. 

Milk, — I  have  already  said  that  milk  is  the  most  perfect  food;  we 
will  now  see  what  it  is  made  of,  and  how  it  nourishes  the  body ;  and 
then  we  can  understand  how  necessary  it  is  to  have  it  pure.    The  ele* 


21 


ments  of  milk  which  strengthen  the  whole  body  aire  the  solid  parts 
that  separate  in  the  form  of  curd  when  it  begins  to  turn  sour;  the  whey 
contains  the  salts  and  phosphates  which  strengthen  the  brain,  bones, 
and  digestive  organs ;  the  cream  is  the  part  which  makes  us  fat.  When  we 
remember  that  cheese  is  made  from  the  curd  of  milk  we  can  see  why 
it  is  so  valuable  as  food,  and  why  a  meal  of  black  or  brown  bread  and 
cheese  will  satisfy  a  hungry  man. 

Try  to  afford  at  least  a  quart  of  good  milk  every  day.  It  can  be 
bought  in  New  York  now  for  seven  or  eight  cents  a  quart ;  and  if  the 
children  have  plenty  of  seconds  bread,  or  oatmeal  porridge,  and  a  cup 
of  milk,  at  meal  times,  they  will  be  strong  and  rosy. 

Skim -milk,  butter-milk,  and  whey,  are  all  excellent  foods,  and  far 
better  drinks  than  beer  or  whiskey.  Make  a  plain  pudding  now  and 
then,  with  skim-milk,  adding  an  ounce  of  suet  to  restore  its  richness. 
If  the  milk  has  turned  a  little  sour  add  lime  water  to  it,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  four  tablespoonfuls  of  the  lime  water  to  a  quart.  If  the  lime 
water  is  added  before  the  milk  begins  to  turn  it  will  help  keep  it  fresh. 
The  following  is  a  good  receipt  for  making  lime  water. 

Lim©  Water. — Slake  four  ounces  of  quick  lime  with  a  little  water, 
and  gradually  add  enough  water  to  make  a  gallon  in  all  ;  let  it  stand 
three  hours,  then  bottle  it  in  glass-stoppered  bottles,  putting  a  portion 
of  the  undissolved  lime  in  each  bottle  ;  when  you  want  to  use  some, 
pour  off  the  clear  liquid  from  the  top. 

Children  should  never  have  tea,  coffee,  or  liquor  ;  all  these  drinks 
hurt  them  ;  give  them  milk,  or  milk  and  water  ;  or  pure  water,  if  you 
cannot  afford  milk.  But  you  had  better  scant  their  clothes  than  their 
supply  of  milk.  If  you  have  to  limit  the  supply  of  food,  deny  them 
something  else,  but  give  them  plenty  of  bread  and  scalded  milk,  and 
you  can  keep  them  healthy. 


22 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Bread,  Rice,  and  Macaroni. 

Homemade-bread  is  healthier,  satisfies  hunger  better,  and  is 
cheaper  than  baker's  bread.  Make  bread  yourself  if  you  possibly  can. 
Use  6 '  middlings, "  if  you  can  get  them  ;  they  contain  the  best 
elements  of  wheat.  "  Household  Flour  "  has  similar  qualities,  but  is 
sometimes  made  from  inferior  kinds  of  wheat.  Both  are  darker  and 
cheaper  than  fine  white  flour  ;  and  bread  made  from  them  takes 
longer  to  "rise"  than  that  made  from  fine  flour.  Baker's  bread  is 
generally  made  from  poor  flour  mixed  with  a  little  of  the  better  sort ; 
or  with  a  little  alum,  which  added  to  the  wheat  grown  in  wet  seasons, 
keeps  the  bread  from  being  pasty  and  poor  in  taste. 

Buy  new  flour  if  you  can  get  it ;  it  takes  up  more  water  than  old  ; 
and  yields  a  larger  amount  of  bread  ;  if  you  do  not  have  a  good  oven 
the  bread  can  be  baked  at  the  baker's  for  about  a  cent  a  loaf. 

When  bread  is  made  too  light  it  is  tasteless,  and  lacks  nourish- 
ment ,  because  the  decay  caused  in  the  elements  of  the  flour  used  to 
make  it  by  the  great  quantity  of  yeast  employed,  destroys  the  most 
nutritious  parts  of  it. 

A  pint  of  milk  in  a  batch  of  four  loaves  of  bread  gives  you  a 
pound  more  bread  of  better  quality,  and  helps  to  keep  it  moist. 
Scalded  skim  milk  will  go  as  far  as  fresh  whole  milk,  and  you  can 
use  the  cream  for  some  other  dish* 

One  pound  of  pea-meal,  or  ground  split-peas,  added  to  every 
fourteen  pounds  of  flour  used  for  bread  increases  its  nourishment,  and 
helps  to  satisfy  hunger. 

Keep  your  bread  in  a  covered  earthen  jar  ;  when  it  is  too  stale  to 
eat,  or  make  into  bread  broth,  dry  it  in  a  cool  oven,  or  over  the  top 
of  the  fire,  roll  it  with  a  rolling-pin,  sift  it  through  a  seive,  and  save 
the  finest  crumbs  to  roll  fish  or  chops  in  for  frying,  and  the  largest  for 
puddings.  If  a  whole  loaf  is  stale  put  it  into  a  tight  tin  can,  and 
either  steam  it,  or  put  it  into  a  moderately  warm  oven  for  half  an 


2  5 


hour ;  it  will  then  be  as.  good  as  fresh  bread  to  the  taste,  and  a  great 
deal  more  healthy. 

A  good  allowance  of  bread  each  day  is  as  follows  ;  for  a  man  two 
pounds,  costing  six  cents  ;  for  boys  and  women  one  pound  and  a  half, 
costing  five  cents  ;  for  children  half  a  pound  each,  costing  three 
cents. 

Homomado  Broad.—  Put  seven  pounds  of  flour  into  a  deep  pan, 
and  make  a  hollow  in  the  centre  ;  into  this  put  one  quart  of  luke- 
warm water,  one  tablespoonful  of  salcf  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and 
half  a  gill  of  yeast  ;  have  ready  three  pints  more  of  warm  water,  and 
use  as  much  of  it  as  is  necessary  to  make  a  rather  soft  dough,  mixing 
and  kneading  it  well  with  both  hands.  When  it  is  smooth  and 
shining  strew  a  little  flour  upon  it,  lay  a  large  towel  over  it  folded, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  by  the  fire  for  four  or  five  hours  to  rise  ; 
then  knead  it  again  for  fifteen  minutes,  cover  it  with  the  towel,  and 
set  it  to  rise  once  more  ;  then  divide  it  into  two  or  four  loaves,  and 
bake  it  in  a  quick  oven.  This  quantity  of  flour  will  make  eight 
pounds  of  bread,  and  will  require  one  hour's  baking  to  two  pounds  of 
dough.  It  will  cost  about  thirty  cents,  and  will  last  about  two  days 
and  a  half  for  a  family  of  six.  In  cold  weather,  the  dough  should  be 
mixed  in  a  warm  room,  and  not  allowed  to  cool  while  rising  ;  if  it 
does  not  rise  well,  set  the  pan  containing  it  over  a  large  vessel  of  boil- 
ing water  ;  it  is  best  to  mix  the  bread  at  night,  and  let  it  rise  till 
morning,  in  a  warm  and  even  temperature. 

J/ElCe  Bread. — Simmer  one  pound  of  rice  in  three  quarts  of  water 
until  the  rice  is  soft,  and  the  water  evaporated  or  absorbed  ;  let  it  cool 
until  it  is  only  luke-warm  ;  mix  into  it  nearly  four  pounds  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ;  knead  it 
until  it  is  smooth  and  shining,  let  it  rise  before  the  fire,  make  it  up 
into  loaves  with  the  little  flour  reserved  from  the  four  pounds,  and 
bake  it  thoroughly.  It  will  cost  about  twenty -five  cents,  and  make 
more  than  eight  pounds  of  excellent  bread. 

Potato  Bread. — Take  good,  mealy  boiled  potatoes,  in  the  propor- 
tion of  one-third  of  the  quantity  of  flour  you  propose  to  use,  pass  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve  into  the  flour,  using  a  wooden  spoon  and 
adding  enough  cold  water  to  enable  you  to  pass  them  through  readily; 
use  the  proper  quantity  of  yeast,  salt,  and  water,  and  make  up  the 
bread  in  the  usual  way.    It  will  cost  about  twenty-four  cents,  if  you 


24 


use  the  above  quantities,  and  give  you  eight  pounds  or  more  of  good 
bread. 

Rice.— Rice  is  largely  composed  pf  starch,  and  for  that  reason  is 
less  nutritious  than  flour,  oatmeal,  Indian  meal,  or  macaroni ;  but  it  is 
a  wholesome  and  economical  food  when  used  with  a  little  meat -broth, 
drippings  or  molasses.  It  is  a  very  safe  food  for  children,  especially 
if  used  with  a  little  molasses.  The  following  is  an  excellent  supper 
dish. 

Rio©  Panada* — Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice,  (which  costs  five  cents, ) 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet,  (at  two  cents,)  with  one  tablespoonful  of 
salt,  and  one  of  sugar,  (cost  one  cent,)  fast  in  boiling  water  for  fifteen 
minutes;  meantime  mix  half  a  pound  of  flour,  (cost  two  cents,) 
gradually  with  one  quart  of  water,  and  one  gill  of  molasses,  (cost  two 
cents  ;)  stir  this  into  the  boiling  rice,  and  boil  it  for  about  five 
minutes  ;  this  makes  a  nice  supper  of  over  five  pounds  of  good,  nutri- 
tious food  for  twelve  cents. 

Boiled  Rice* — Another  good  dish  of  rice  for  supper  can  be  made  as 
follows.  Wash  half  a  pound  of  rice  (cost  five  cents,)  throw  it  into  one 
quart  of  boiling  water,  containing  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  boil  it 
fast  ten  minutes  ;  drain  it  in  a  colander,  saving  the  water  to  use  with 
broth  next  day  ;  meantime  just  grease  the  pot  with  sweet  drippings, 
put  the  rice  back  in  it,  cover  it,  and  set  it  on  a  brick  on  the  top  of  the 
stove,  or  in  a  cool  oven,  and  let  it  stand  ten  minutes  to  swell  ;  be 
careful  not  to  burn  it.  The  addition  of  a  very  little  butter,  sugar, 
molasses,  nutmeg,  lemon  juice,  or  salt  and  pepper,  will  give  it 
different  flavors  :  so  that  you  can  vary  the  taste,  and  have  it  often 
without  getting  tired  of  it,  and  it  need  never  cost  you  over  seven  cents. 

Macaroni.— This  is  a  paste  made  from  the  purest  wheat  flour  and 
water;  it  is  generally  known  as  a  rather  luxurious  dish  among  the 
wealthy;  but  it  should  become  one  of  the  chief  foods  of  the  people, 
for  it  contains  more  gluten,  or  the  nutritious  portion  of  wheat,  than 
bread.  It  is  one  of  the  most  wholesome  and  economical  of  foods,  and 
can  be  varied  so  as  to  give  a  succession  of  palatable  dishes  at  a  very 
small  cost.  The  imported  macaroni  can  be  bought  at  Italian  stores 
for  about  fifteen  cents  a  pound;  and  that  quantity  when  boiled  yields 
nearly  four  times  its  bulk,  if  it  has  been  manufactured  for  any  length 
of  time.  Good  macaroni  is  yellow  or  brownish  in  color;  white  sorts 
are  always  poor.    It  should  never  be  soaked  or  washed  before  boil? 


ing,  or  put  into  cold  or  lukewarm  water;  wipe  it  carefully,  break  it  in 
whatever  lengths  you  want  it,  and  put  it  into  plenty  of  boiling  water, 
to  every  quart  of  which  half  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  is  added;  you  can 
boil  an  onion  with  it  if  you  like  the  flavor;  as  soon  as  it  is  tender 
enough  to  yield  easily  when  pressed  between  the  fingers,  drain  it  in  a 
colander,  saving  its  liquor  for  the  next  day's  broth,  and  lay  it  in  cold 
water  until  you  want  to  use  it.  When  more  macaroni  has  been  boiled 
than  is  used  it  can  be  kept  perfectly  good  by  laying  it  in  fresh  water, 
which  must  be  changed  every  day.  After  boiling  the  macaroni  as 
above,  you  can  use  it  according  to  any  of  the  following  directions. 
Half  a  pound  of  uncooked  macaroni  will  make  a  large  dishful. 

KacarOlli,  Fanners'  Style- — Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  as 
above,  and  while  you  are  draining  it  from  the  cold  water,  stir  together 
over  the  fire  one  ounce  each  of  butter  and  flour,  as  soon  as  they  bubble 
gradually  pour  into  the  sauce  they  make,  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  beat- 
ing it  with  a  fork  or  egg-whip  until  it  is  smooth;  season  it  with  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  level  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  and  put  the  mac- 
aroni in  it  to  heat;  then  cut  an  onion  in  small  shreds,  and  brown  it 
over  the  fire  in  a  very  little  fat;  when  both  are  done  dish  the  macaroni, 
and  pour  the  onion  out  of  the  frying  pan  upon  it.  It  is  excellent;  and 
ten  cents  will  cover  the  cost  of  all  of  it. 

Macaroni  With.  Broth. — Put  half  a  pound  of  macaroni,  boiled  as 
above,  and  washed  in  cold  water,  over  the  fire  with  any  kind  of  broth, 
or  one  pint  of  cold  gravy  and  water;  season  it  to  taste  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  let  it  heat  slowly  for  an  hour,  or  less  if  you  are  in  a  hurry; 
then  lay  it  on  a  flat  dish,  strew  over  it  a  few  bread  crumbs,  which  you 
will  almost  always  have  on  hand  if  you  save  all  the  bits  I  speak  of  in 
the  article  on  bread;  then  set  the  dish  in  the  oven,  or  in  front  of  the 
fire  to  brown  ,  It  will  cost  less  than  ten  cents,  and  be  delicious  and 
very  hearty. 

Macaroni  With.  White  Sauce.— Warm  half  a  pound  of  macaroni, 
boiled  and  washed  in  cold  water,  as  above,  in  the  following  sauce,  and 
use  it  as  soon  as  it  is  hot.  Stir  together  over  the  fire  one  ounce  each 
of  butter  and  flour,  pouring  in  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  milk,  as 
soon  as  the  butter  and  flour  are  mixed;  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  put  the  macaroni  into  it.  This  dish  costs  less  than  ten 
cents,  and  is  very  good  and  wholesome. 

Macaroni  With  Cheese,— Boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni*  as  above, 


put  it  into  a  pudding  dish  in  layers  with  quarter  of  a  pound  of  cheese, 
(cost  four  cents,)  grated  and  mixed  between  the  layers;  season  it  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  put  a  very  little  buttter  and  some  bread 
crumbs  over  it,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven.  It  will  make  just  as  hearty 
and  strengthening  a  meal  as  meat,  and  will  cost  about  twelve  cents. 


CHAPTER  V. 
Peas,  Beans,  Lentils,  and  Maize. 

Before  giving  you  receipts  for  cooking  peas,  beans,  and  lentils,  1 
Want  to  show  you  how  important  they  are  as  foods.  I  have  already 
spoken  of  the  heat  and  flesh  forming  properties  of  food  as  the  test  of 
its  usefulness  ;  try  to  understand  that  a  laboring  man  needs  twelve 
ounces  and  a  half  of  heat  food,  and  half  an  ounce  of  flesh-food  every 
day  to  keep  him  healthy.  One  pound,  or  one  and  a  quarter  pints  of 
dried  peas,  beans,  or  lentils,  contains  nearly  six  ounces  of  heat  food, 
and  half  an  ounce  of  flesh  food ;  that  is,  nearly  as  much  heat-food, 
and  more  than  twice  as  much  flesh  food  as  wheat.  A  little  fat,  salt 
meat,  or  suet,  cooked  with  them,  to  bring  up  their  amount  of  heat  food 
to  the  right  point,  makes  either  of  them  the  best  and  most  strengthen- 
ing food  a  workingman  can  have.  The  only  objection  to  their 
frequent  use  is  the  fact  that  their  skins  are  sometimes  hard  to 
digest ;  but  if  you  make  them  into  soup,  or  pudding,  rubbing 
them  through  a  seive  after  they  are  partly  cooked,  you  will  be  safe 
from  any  danger. 

Pea  Soup. — Use  half  a  pint,  or  seven  ounces  of  dried  peas,  (cost 
three  cents,)  for  every  two  quarts  of  soup  you  want.  Put  them  in 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  after  washing  them  well ;  bring  them 
slowly  to  a  boil ;  add  a  bone,  or  bit  of  ham,  if  you  have  it  to  spare, 
one  turnip,  and  one  carrot  peeled,  one  onion  stuck  with  three  cloves, 
(cost  three  cents,)  and  simmer  three  hours,  stirring  occasionally  to 
prevent  burning  ;  then  pass  the  soup  through  a  sieve  with  the  aid  of  a 
potato  masher  and  if  it  shows  any  sign  of  settling  stir  into  it  one 
tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  mixed  together  dry,  (cost  two 
cents,)  this  will  prevent  settling ;  meantime  fry  some  dice  of  stale 


bread,  about  two  slice-s,  cut  half  an  inch  square,  in  hot  fat,  drain  them 
on  a  sieve,  and  put  them  in  the  bottom  of  the  soup  tureen  in  which  the 
pea  soup  is  served  ;  or  cut  some  bits  of  very  hard  stale  bread,  or  dry- 
toast,  to  use  instead  of  the  fried  bread.  By  the  time  the  soup  is  done 
it  will  have  boiled  down  to  two  quarts,  and  will  be  very  thick  and 
good.    This  receipt  will  cost  you  about  ten  cents. 

Thick  Pea  Soup.-^— Fry  one  sliced  onion,  (cost  half  a  cent,)  in  one 
ounce  of  suet  or  drippings,  (cost  half  a  cent,)  using  an  iron  pot  to  fry 
it  in  ;  as  soon  as  it  is  brown  put  into  the  same  pot,  three  quarts  of  cold 
water,  one  pint,  or  fourteen  ounces  of  well  washed  peas,  (cost  five 
cents,)  and  boil  as  above  ;  this  quantity  of  peas  does  not  need  any 
crusts  in  the  soup  ;  it  will  be  thick  enough  ;  but  bread  may  be  eaten 
with  it,  if  you  want  it.    This  soup  costs  six  cents. 

Oatmeal  aild  Peas. — Cut  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fat  pork  or  bacon, 
(cost  four  cents,)  into  pieces  half  an  inch  square  ;  put  in  the  bottom  of 
a  pot  with  two  sliced  onions,  (cost  one  cent,)  ancf  fry  ten  minutes  with- 
out burning  ;  season  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  and 
one  saltspoonful  of  pepper  ;  (cost  of  seasoning  one  cent ;)  then  add 
three  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  one  pint  of  peas,  (cost  five  cents,)  and 
boil  the  whole  gently  until  the  peas  become  quite  soft  ;  then  stir  in 
enough  oatmeal  to  thicken,  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound,  (cost  two 
cents  or  less  ;)  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then  eat  hot.  It  is  the 
healthiest  kind  of  a  meal,  and  costs  thirteen  cents,  or  less. 

Peas-Pudding. — Soak  one  pint  of  dried  peas,  (cost  five  cents,)  in 
cold  water  over  night ;  tie  them  loosely  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  boil 
them  about  two  hours  in  pot-liquor  or  water,  putting  them  into  it  cold 
and  bringing  them  gradually  to  a  boil;  drain  them,  pass  them  through 
a  sieve  with  a  wooden  spoon,  season  them  with  a  level  tablespoonful 
of  salt,  half  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  one  egg, 
(all  of  which  will  cost  five  cents,)  mix,  tie  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  boil 
half  an  hour  longer  ;  then  turn  it  from  the  cloth,  on  a  dish,  and 
serve  hot.  This  receipt  makes  a  good  large  pudding  for  ten  cents  ; 
or  you  can  leave  out  the  egg  and  it  will  cost  less. 

Bean  Soup. — For  this,  use  the  receipt  for  pea-soup,  using  beans 
instead  of  peas ;  the  cost  will  be  about  the  same. 

Baked  Beans. — Put  one  pint  of  dried  beans,  (cost  six  cents,)  and 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork,  (cost  four  cents,)  into  two  quarts  of 
cold  water  ;  bring  them  to  a  boil,  and  boil  them  slowly  for  about 


twenty  minutes;  then  put  the  beans,  with  about  a  teacupful  of  the 
water  they  wercboiled  in,  into  an  open  jar,  season  them  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  (cost  of  seasoning 
one  cent,)  lay  the  pork  on  the  top,  and  bake  two  hours,  or  longer. 
The  dish  will  cost  about  ten  cents,  and  is  palatable  and  nutritious. 
The  liquor  in  which  the  beans  were  boiled  should  be  saved,  and  used 
the  next  morning  as  broth,  with  seasoning  and  a  little  fried  or  toasted 
bread  in  it. 

Lentils. — Lentils  have  been  used  for  food  in  older  countries  for  a 
long  time,  and  it  is  quite  necessary  that  we  should  become  acquainted 
with  their  merits  if  we  want  to  save ;  I  give  a  lentil  soup,  and  some 
excellent  directions  for  cooking  this  invaluable  food.  One  quart  of 
lentils  when  cooked  will  make  four  pounds  of  hearty  food.  There  are 
two  varieties  in  market;  the  small  flat  brown  seed,  called  lentils  a  la 
reine ;  and  a  larger  kind,  about  the  size  of  peas,  and  of  a  greenish 
color  ;  both  sorts  are  equally  well  flavored  and  nutritious;  they  cost 
ten  cents  a  pound,  and  can  be  bought  at  general  groceries.  The  seed 
of  the  lentil  tare,  commonly  cultivated  in  France  and  Germany  as  an 
article  of  food,  ranks  nearly  as  high  as  meat  as  a  valuable  food,  being 
capable  of  sustaining  life  and  vigor  for  a  longtime;  this  vegetable  is 
gradually  becoming  known  in  this  country,  from  the  use  of  it  by  our 
French  and  German  citizens;  and  from  its  nutritive  value  it  deserves  to 
rank  as  high  as  our  favorite  New  England  beans. 

Lentil  Soup. — For  two  quarts  of  soup  half  a  pint  of  yellow  lentils, 
(cost  five  cents,)  washed,  and  put  to  boil  in  three  pints  of  cold  water, 
with  one  cent's  worth  of  soup  greens,  and  boiled  gently  until  the  lentils 
are  soft  enough  to  break  between  the  fingers;  every  lialf  hour  a  gill  of 
cold  water  should  be  added,  and  the  lentils  again  raised  to  the  boiling 
point,  until  they  are  done ;  they  should  then  be  passed  through  a  sieve 
with  a  wooden  spoon,  using  enough  of  the  liquor  to  make  them  pass 
easy,  and  mixed  with  the  rest  of  the  soup;  it  should  be  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  is  then  ready  to  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  and 
serve  hot,  with  dice  of  fried  bread  half  an  inch  square,  like  those  used 
for  pea  soup,  or  with  bits  of  stale  bread.  A  plentiful  dinner  of  lentil 
soup  and  bread  costs  only  about  ten  cents. 

Lentils  toiled  plain. — Wash  one  pound,  or  one  full  pint  of  lentils 
(cost  ten  cents,)  well  in  cold  water,  put  them  over  the  fire,  in  three 
quarts  of  cold  water  with  one  ounce  of»drippings,  one  tablespoonful  of 


29 


Salt,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  (cost  about  one  cent,)  and  boil  slow- 
ly until  tender,  that  is  about  three  hours ;  drain  off  the  little  water 
which  remains,  add  to  the  lentils  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  little  more  salt  and 
pepper  if  required,  (cost  about  three  cents,)  and  serve  them  hot. 
Always  save  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiled ;  with  the  addition  of 
a  little  thickening  and  seasoning,  it  makes  a  very  nourishing  soup. 

Stewed  Lentils. — Put  a  pint  of  plain  boiled  lentils  into  a  sauce -pan, 
cover  them  with  any  kind  of  pot-liquor,  add  one  ounce  of  chopped 
onion,  two  ounces  of  drippings,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  chopped  pars- 
ley, and  stew  gently  for  twenty  minutes;  serve  hot.  This  dish  costs 
about  ten  cents. 

Fried  Lentils. — Fry  one  ounce  of  chopped  onion  brown  in  two 
ounces  of  drippings,  add  one  pint  of  plain  boiled  lentils,  see  if  they  are 
properly  seasoned,  and  brown  them  well;  serve  hot.  The  dish  costs 
about  ten  cents,  and  is  very  good,  and  as  nutritious  as  meat. 

M&ise,  Or  Indian  Com  Meal. — This  native  product  is  a  strong  and 
nutritious  food,  and  very  economical ;  in  addition  to  the  ordinary  hasty- 
pudding,  or  mush,  it  can  be  cooked  with  a  little  pot-liquor,  meat,  or 
cheese,  so  as  to  be  both  good  and  wholesome.  Below  are  two  excell- 
ent receipts  for  cooking  it. 

Polenta. — Boil  one  pound  of  yellow  Indian  meal,  (cost  four  cents,) 
for  half  an  hour,  in  two  quarts  of  pot-liquor  or  boiling  water,  salted  to 
taste,  with  one  ounce  of  fat,  stirring  it  occasionally  to  prevent  burning; 
then  bake  it  for  half  an  hour  in  a  greased  baking  dish,  and  serve  it 
either  hot,  or,  when  cold,  slice  it  and  fry  it  in  smoking  hot  fat.  This 
favorite  Italian  dish  is  closely  allied  to  the  hasty-pudding  of  New  Eng- 
land, and  the  mush  of  the  South.    It  costs  five  cents. 

Cheese  Pudding. — Into  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  containing  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  stir  one  pound  of  yellow  Indian  meal,  (cost  four 
cents,)  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  grated  cheese,  (cost  four  cents;) 
boil  it  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  it  occasionally  to  prevent  burning; 
then  put  it  in  a  greased  baking  pan,  sprinkle  over  the  top  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  grated  cheese,  (cost  four  cents,)  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
Serve  hot.  If  any  remains,  slice  it  cold  and  fry  it  brown.  It  costs 
twelve  cents. 


3° 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Cheap  Meat  Dinners. 

Some  of  the  receipts  in  this  chapter  combine  several  dishes  from  one 
source.  By  using  the  meat  and  vegetables  for  dinner,  the  rice,  or  pearl 
barley  cooked  in  the  pot-liquor  for  supper,  and  the  pot-liquor  itself, 
made  into  broth,  for  breakfast,  you  can  often  bring  the  cost  of  a  day's 
meals  below  forty -five  cents;  and  so  save  enough  during  the  week  to 
have  a  pudding  for  Sunday's  dinner.  The  three  following  receipts  are 
a  good  example  of  my  meaning. 

Salt  Pot-au-feu. — Put  one  and  a  half  pounds  of  salt  pork  (cost  eigh- 
teen cents,)  in  three  quarts  of  cold  water;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  and 
skim  it  well;  when  it  has  boiled  fifteen  minutes,  put  in  with  it  a  two 
or  three  cent  head  of  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters  and  well  washed,  and 
boil  both  steadily  for  half  an  hour;  new  cabbage  boils  tender  sooner 
than  old,  but  you  must  not  cook  either  after  the  stalks  are  tender,  or 
you  will  waste  a  great  deal  of  nourishment;  when  both  meat  and  cab- 
bage are  done,  take  up  the  meat  with  a  fork,  and  the  cabbage  with  a 
strainer,  and  use  them  for  dinner. 

Sice  and  Broth. — After  dinner  carefully  strain  the  pot-liquor,  and 
put  it  in  an  earthen  pot  until  an  hour  before  supper.  Then  put  it  over 
the  fire,  and  when  it  boils  throw  into  it  half  a  pound  of  well  washed 
rice,  (cost  five  cents,)  and  boil  fast  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  rice 
is  just  tender;  try  the  seasoning,  and  then  pour  both  broth  and  rice  into 
a  strainer  set  over  an  earthen  pot  or  bowl;  as  soon  as  the  rice  drains, 
shake  it  out  into  a  dish,  and  use  it  for  supper. 

Bread  Broth.-^-After  supper  carefully  strain  the  broth  and  keep  it 
over  night  in  an  earthen  pot.  In  the  morning  heat  it  ;  if  it  is  too  salt 
add  a  little  more  water  ;  or  season  it  more  if  necessary  ;  while  it  is 
heating  toast  two  pounds  of  bread,  (cost  six  cents,)  cut  it  in  small 
square  pieces,  and  throw  it  into  the  broth.  As  soon  as  it  is  hot  use  it 
for  breakfast. 

These  three  dishes  will  cost  about  thirty  cents.    Corned  beef,  fresh 


3> 


beef,  and  mutton,  can  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  using  cabbage  with 
the  corned  beef,  potatoes  with  the  fresh  beef,  and  turnips  with  the 
mutton  ;  for  the  supper  dishes,  peas,  beans,  and  pearl  barley  ;  with 
bread  broth  for  breakfast. 

Thus  you  see  you  can  make  three  good  meals  for  four  different 
days,  for  one  dollar  and  twenty  cents,  leaving  you  a  good  margin  for 
suitable  food  for  young  children,  such  as  bread  and  milk,  or  oatmeal 
porridge  ;  or  a  nice  Sunday  dinner,  if  the  children  are  well  grown. 

Haslet  Stew. — For  this  dish  use  a  fresh  pigs'  or  sheep's  haslet, 
which  costs  about  six  cents.  Wash  the  liver,  heart,  and  lights,  cut 
them  in  two  inch  pieces,  put  them  into  a  sauce-pan  with  one  ounce  of 
salt  pork  sliced,  (cost  one  cent,)  an  onion  chopped,  one  dessert  spoonful 
of  salt,  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of  black  pepper  ;  two  bay  leaves,  two 
sprigs  of  parsley  and  one  of  thyme,  tied  in  a  bouquet,  (cost  of  season- 
ing one  cent.)  one  ounce  of  flour,  one  gill  of  vinegar,  half  a  pint  of 
cold  gravy  or  cold  water,  and  six  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  dice  ; 
(cost  of  all  these  about  five  cents  ;)  stew  all  these  ingredients  gently 
together  for  two  hours,  and  serve  as  you  would  a  stew,  with  a  table  - 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  the  top,  and  bread  to  eat 
with  it,    It  will  give  you  a  good  dinner  for  about  fifteen  cents. 

Stewed  Tripe. — Cut  in  small  pieces  one  pound  of  tripe,  (cost  eight 
cents,)  half  a  quart  each  of  potatoes  and  onions,  (cost  of  both  five 
cents,)  and  put  them  in  layers  in  a  pot,  seasoning  them  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  pepper  ;  mix  quarter  of 
a  pound  of  flour  with  water,  gradually  using  three  pints  of  water,  and 
pour  it  over  the  stew  ;  (the  flour  and  seasoning  will  cost  two  cents  ;) 
put  the  pot  over  the  fire  and  boil  it  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 
It  costs  about  fifteen  cents,  and  furnishes  a  good  nutritious  meal,  the 
onions  and  flour  making  up  any  lack  of  nourishment  in  the  tripe  and 
potatoes. 

Scotch  CrQWdie. — Boil  one  pound  of  oatmeal  one  hour  in  four 
quarts  of  any  kind  of  pot-liquor,  stirring  often  enough  to  prevent 
burning;  season  with  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  level  saltspoonful  of 
pepper,  one  ounce  of  butter,  and  serve  with  plenty  of  bread.  It  will 
give  you  a  good  meal  for  about  ten  cents. 


3* 


CHAPTER  VII. 

Cheap  and  nutritious  Puddings. 

I  HAVE  already  told  you  that  in  writing  this  book  for  you  I 
should  treat  only  of  cheap  and  nourishing  foods;  so  do  not  look  for 
any  directions  to  make  pies  and  cakes.  They  are  the  bane  of  Ameri- 
can cookery;  they  are  expensive  and  unhealthy.  On  the  other  hand, 
a  good  pudding  made  of  flour,  suet,  and  fruit,  or  molasses,  will  often 
take  the  place  of  a  piece-of  meat,  and  give  quite  as  much  satisfaction 
to  hunger.  I  can  safely  recommend  any  of  the  following,  for  I  have 
cooked  and  eaten  some  of  every  kind. 

Suet  Boly-poly. — Sift  together  one  pound  of  flour,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  salt,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  (cost  about  five 
cents,)  rub  into  them  two  ounces  of  sweet  drippings,  (cost  one  cent;) 
mix  with  two  gills  of  milk,  or  one  egg,  and  two  gills  of  water,  (cost 
two  cents,)  or  plain  water;  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  spread  with 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  chopped  suet,  (cost  two  cents,)  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  little  spice  or  nutmeg,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  (cost 
two  cents  ;)  roll  it  up,  tie  it  tightly  in  a  well  floured  cloth,  and  boil 
steadily  for  two  hours  in  a  large  covered  pot,  half  full  of  water.  Use 
a  little  molasses,  or  sugar  with  it,  if  it  is  not  sweet  enough.  It  is  very 
good,  and  costs  only  about  twelve  cents. 

Molasses  Eoly-poly.— Make  up  the  same  as  suet  roly-poly,  using 
half  a  pint  of  molasses  instead  of  suet;  the  cost  will  be  about  the 
same. 

Currant  Eoly-poly.  —Make  up  the  same  as  suet  roly-poly,  using 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  washed  and  dried  currants  with  the  suet;  the 
cost  will  be  about  fifteen  cents. 

Rice  Pudding. — Put  in  an  earthen  pudding  dish  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  well  washed  rice,  (cost  three  cents,)  three  pints  of  milk,  (cost  twelve 
cents,)  four  ounces  of  sugar,  (cost  three  cents,)  and  a  little  spice,  or 
flavoring;  bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  It 
costs  about  eighteen  cents. 


33 


Spotted  Dick  Pudding. — This  pudding  is  based  upon  one  of  Sog- 
er's receipts,  which  I  like  very  much.  Mix  together  six  ounces  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  baking  powder,  and  one  of  cinna- 
mon, (cost  of  all  these  about  two  cents;)  add  four  ounces  of  chopped 
suet,  (cost  two  cents,)  four  ounces  of  sugar,  (cost  three  cents,)  four 
ounces  of  well  washed  currants,  (cost  four  cents;)  mix  to  a  stiff  batter 
with  either  half  a  pint  of  milk,  or  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  one  egg, 
(cost  of  either  two  cents.)  Put  the  pudding  into  a  greased  and  floured 
mould,  or  tin  pail,  and  steam  it  about  three  hours.  Use  sugar  or  mo- 
lasses with  it,  if  it  is  not  sweet  enough.  It  is  very  good,  and  costs 
about  fifteen  cents,  including  last  item. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

A  Dollar  Christmas  Dinner. 

In  buying  poultry  for  Christmas-tide  I  have  found  that  it  is  better 
to  market  at  least  three  days  before  that  holiday.  The  prices  are  very 
much  lower,  and  the  weather  is  generally  cold  enough  for  you  to  keep 
your  bird  fresh  until  you  want  to  use  it.  In  estimating  the  cost  of 
this  dinner  I  shall  suppose  that  you  buy  your  turkey  in  advance  at  a 
shilling  a  pound,  instead  of  waiting  till  Christmas  eve,  and  paying  at 
least  twenty  cents  for  it.  If  you  are  obliged  to  wait  you  must  add  the 
difference  in  price  to  my  figures.  The  following  is  our  bill  of  fare: 
Roast  Turkey, 

Baked  Potatoes, 

Apple  Sauce, 
Plum  Pudding  with  Cream  Sauce. 
Begin  your  preparations  by  making  your  pudding  as  follows: — 
Plum  Pudding. — Mix  well  together,  half  a  pound  of  flour,  (cost  two 
cents,)  four  ounces  of  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped,  (cost  four  cents,) 
four  ounces  of  currants,  well  washed,  (cost  four  cents,)  four  ounces  of 
chopped  suet,  (cost  two  cents,)  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ground  spice,  (cost  one  cent,)  and  one  gill  of  cold 
water;  put  in  a  floured  cloth,  or  a  greased  and  floured  mould,  or  tin 
pail,  and  steam  until  yon  are  ready  to  put  it  on  the  table.    It  will  cost 
you  thirteen  cents. 


34 


Next  peel  one  quart  of  potatoes,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  while 
you  get  the  turkey  ready. 

Boast  Turkey.— Draw  a  Ave  pound  turkey,  (cost  five  shillings,) 
carefully  enough  not  to  break  the  entrails,  so  that  you  will  not  have  to 
spoil  its  flavor  by  washing  it;  singe  it,  and  wipe  it  with  a  clean,  damp 
cloth,  stuff  it  with  about  a  pound  of  stale  bread,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper  and  herbs,  (cost  about  three  cents,)  sew  it  up,  tie  it  in  shape, 
lay  it  in  a  baking  pan  with  one  quart  of  peeled  potatoes,  (cost  five 
cents,)  and  put  it  into  a  hot  oven;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  brown  nicely, 
take  it  out,  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt,  baste  it  with  the  drippings 
from  it;  and  put  it  back  in  the  oven;  baste  it  every  fifteen  minutes 
until  it  is  done,  which  will  be  in  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Then 
put  it  on  a  dish,  with  the  potatoes  around  it,  and  set  it  in  the  mouth 
of  the  oven  to  keep  it  hot  while  you  make  the  gravy;  do  this  by  pour- 
ing a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  the  dripping  pan,  letting  it  come  to  a 
boil,  and  stirring  into  it  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  smoothly  in 
half  a  teacupful  of  cold  water;  season  it  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper^ 
and  dish  in  a  bowL 

Appl©  Sauce. — As  soon  as  you  get  the  turkey  in  the  oven,  make 
the  apple  sauce  as  follows.  Pare,  core,  and  slice  two  quarts,  or  five 
cents'  worth  of  cooking  apples,  put  them  over  the  fire  with  a  half  cup 
of  water,  and  stew  then\  until  soft:  then  stir  in  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
{cost  three  cents,)  and  one  ounce  of  butter,  (cost  two  cents,)  and  cool 
it,  or  keep  it  warm,  as  you  like.  It  will  cost  ten  cents.  Next  make 
the  pudding  sauce. 

Creaia  Sauce. — Stir  together  over  the  fire  one  ounce  of  butter,  one 
ounce  of  flour,  and  a  little  spice,  (all  of  which  will  cost  about  two 
cents  ;)  put  a  little  milk  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  it  grad- 
ually in  the  flour  and  butter;  when  it  is  quite  smooth  stir  in  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  (cost  two  cents,)  and  let  it  boil  up  once;  then  set  the 
sauce-pan  you  have  made  it  in  into  another  containing  a  little  hot 
water,  so  as  to  keep  the  sauce  hot  until  you  want  it,  without  thicken- 
ing or  burning  it.  It  wil)  cost  about  five  cents,  and  be  good  enough 
for  the  nicest  of  plum  puddings. 

After  you  have  done  with  the  sauce  the  rest  of  the  dinner  will 
probably  be  nearly  cooked,  and  you  can  get  it  ready  for  the  table. 

And  after  you  have  eaten  it,  think  if  I  have  kept  my  promise  to  tell 
jrou  how  to  get  comfortable  meals  at  low  prices. 


35 


INDEX  OF  PRICES. 

CENTS.  PAGE. 

Apple  Sauce   10  34 

Baked  Beans   10  27 

Baked  Potatoes   05  34 

Barley  and  Broth,  average  cost   10  31 

Barley  Water,  per  qt   02  20 

Beans  and  Broth,  average  cost  ,   10  31 

Bean  Soup   10  27 

Beef  and  Potatoes,  average  cost   10  31 

Boiled  Rice   07  24 

Bread  and  Broth,  average  cost   10  30 

Bread,  per  eight  pounds   30  23 

Broths  for  breakfast  and  supper,  average  cost   10  31 

Cheese  Pudding   12  29 

Christmas  Dinner                                                         1  00  33 

Cocoa,  per  qt   c6  19 

Coffee,  per  qt   06  19 

Corned  Beef  and  Cabbage,  average  cost   10  31 

Cream  Sauce   05  34 

Currant  Roly-poly  Pudding   15  32 

Haslet  Stew   15  31 

Homemade  bread,  per  eight  pounds   30  23 

Lentils,  boiled   10  28 

Lentils,  fried   10  29 

Lentil  Soup     10  28 

Lentils,  stewed     10  29 


36 

CENTS.  PAGE. 

Macaroni,  Farmers'  style   10  25 

Macaroni  with  Broth   10  25 

Macaroni  with  Cheese   12  25 

Macaroni  with  White  Sauce   10  25 

Meat  Dinners,  average  cost   10  30 

Molasses  Roly-poly  Pudding   12  32 

Mutton  and  Turnips,  average  cost   10  31 

Oatmeal  and  Peas   13  27 

Peas  and  Broth   10  31 

Peas  Pudding   10  27 

Pea  Soup   10  26 

Plum  Pudding   13  33 

Polenta   05  29 

Potato  Bread,  per  8  lbs   24  23 

Puddings,  average  cost  ,  ,    12  32 

Rice  and  Broth,  average  cost .   10  30 

Rice  Bread,  per  8  lbs   24  23 

Rice  Panada,  per  5  lbs   12  24 

Rice  Pudding   18  32 

Roast  Turkey   65  34 

Salt  Pot-au-feu,  average  cost   10  30 

Scotch  Crowdie      10  31 

Spotted  Dick  Pudding   15  33 

Stewed  Tripe  .   15  31 

Suet  Roly-poly  Pudding   12  32 

Table  sauce,  per  pint   06  17 

Tea,  per  qt   03  19 

Thick  Pea  Soup   06  27 

Turkey,  Roast   65  34 


37 

"The  Book  For  The  Times. 


"how  well  can  we  live  if  we  are  moderately 
Poor?" 

The  Housekeeper  will  find  the  answer  to  this  ques- 
tion in 

MISS  CORSON'S  COOKING  MANUAL  OF  PRACTICAL 
DIRECTIONS  FOR  ECONOMICAL  COOKERY. 

1 8 mo,  144  pages,  oil  covers,  30  cents. 

The  closely  filled  pages  of  this  book  contain  as  much 
matter  as  is  often  found  in  books  of  three  times  the  price. 
It  will  attract  especial  attention  from  the  fact  that  the  author 
is  at  the  head  of  the  well-known  Cooking  School  in  St. 
Mark's  Place,  New  York. 


Critical  Notices. 

„  "Miss  Corson  has  done  well  to  give  the  public  this  result  of  her 
experience  in  culinary  teaching,  in  a  form  so  cheap  that  it  may  have 
the  widest  possible  usefulness.  She  is  a  common-sense  woman,  and 
takes  up  the  subject  from  a  point  of  view  that  is  thoroughly  practical. 
Her  book  is  full  of  excellent  information,  scientific  hints,  practical 
suggestions,  and  plain  receipts,  descriptive  of  the  preparation  of  many 
important  dishes.  We  believe  it  will  be  found  eminently  trustworthy 
as  a  kitchen  hand-book.1 ' — Popular  Science  Monthly. 


3S 

"THE  BOOK  FOR  THE  TIMES." 

"  A  book  of  small  pretensions  and  considerable  value.  The  motto 
on  the  title-page  gives  an  idea  of  the  spirit  and  purpose  of  the  book. 
Miss  Corson  is  the  head  of  the  New  York  Cooking  School,  and  is  fitted 
both  by  study  and  practice  to  answer  this  important  question." — Harp- 
er's Monthly. 

"  'The  Cooking  Manual*  by  Juliet  Corson,  the  able  Superintend- 
ent of  the  New  York  Cooking  School,  is  emphatically  a  book  for  the 
hard  times.  It  is  full  of  practical  common  sense,  and  contains  hints 
that  are  invaluable  to  young  housekeepers,  while  the  more  experienced 
■ones  cannot  fail  to  learn  much  from  it." — New  York  Herald. 


"One  of  the  results  of  the  New  York  Cooking  School,  whose  good 
ivork  has  been  a  matter  of  general  assent,  is  Miss  Corson's  '  Cooking 
Manual."  There  are  over  three  hundred  receipts  given,  and  all 
these  come  within  the  compass  of  an  every -day  dinner,  and  the  com- 
prehension of  an  ordinary  cook.  They  are  the  triumph  of  judgment 
^and  skill  which  makes  of  cooking  a  fine  art. — New  York  World. 


"A  good  cook  never  wastes,  and  Miss  Corson  being  the  best  of 
cooks,  has  a  really  surprising  number  of  ways  at  command  for  mak- 
ing the  most  of  the  marketing,  creating  the  greatest  variety  of  dishes 
out  of  the  smallest  variety  of  materials,  making  something  presenta- 
ble and  palatable  out  of  every  scrag  end,  and  finding  profitable  use 
for  the  most  unpromising  scraps." — N.  Y*  Evening  Post, 

"There  are  a  great  many  of  us  who  cannot  live  better  than  by 
following  Miss  Corson's  directions.  Her  "Cooking  Manual"  is  a 
common-sense  treatise  on  dishes  suitable  for  the  richest  and  the  most 
moderate  table ;  it  is  certain  that  no  housekeeper  should  be  without  a 
copy." — N.  Y.  Evening  Telegram. 

"Miss  Corson's  'Cooking  Manual' is  intended  for  the  use  of 
those  cooks  and  housekeepers  who  wish  to  know  how  to  make  the 
most  wholesome  dishes  at  the  least  possible  cost,  and  to  teach  con- 
scientious mothers  of  families  how  well  they  can  live  even  if  they  are 
moderately  poor." — New  York  Sun, 


"THE  BOOK  FOR  THE  TIMES." 


The  receipts  number  nearly  three  hundred  ;  not  one  of  them  is 
beyond  the  means  of  any  family  which  can  afford  to  cook  at  all;  while 
nearly  all  of  them,  if  faithfully  followed  would  put  upon  the  rich 
man's  table  food  more  nourishing  and  palatable  than  nine  out  of  ten 
well-to-do  people  ever  taste  outside  of  first-class  restaurants."- — The 
Christian  Union, 


"The  Cooking  Manual  is  an  excellent  little  book  by  a  ladyr 
who  knows  how  cooking  should  be  done." — New  York  Observer, 


>*£This  little  book  is  one  of  the  most  useful  works  that  has  been 
published  for  a  long  time  on  this  subject.  Miss  Corson's  efforts  to 
introduce  a  more  nourishing  and  healthy  style  of  cooking  in  this  coun- 
try have  Heen  attended  with  considerable  success.  Her  writings  on 
culinary  reform  are  well  known,  and  her  Cooking  School,  which  has 
been  in  existence  three  years,  has  been  the  subject  of  frequent 
praise  from  the  New  York  press.  Miss  Corson  understands  both 
the  art  of  cooking  and  of  book-making,  and  knows  how  to  say  a 
great  deal  in  a  short  space.  Every  housekeeper  can  find  occasion  to 
use  the  information  contained  in  this  work  at  least  three  times  a 
day." — Cleveland  Leader, 

"Simple  dinners  can  be  made  delicate  and  delicious,  or  ill-cooked 
and  unpalatable;  and  with  the  blessing  of  such  cooking-books  we  can 
always  command  a  comfortable  dinner.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind 
these  receipts  are  the  actual  results  of  lectures  on  cooking  practically 
demonstrated  in  the  school -room,  thoroughly  tested  and  passed  upon. 
The  directions  are  so  simple  that  the  most  stupid  cook  can  master 
them,  while  the  book's  general  principles  inculcate  economy  invaluable 
ki  these  hard  times." — Petersburg,  Va.  Index  and  Appeal, 


"  The  secret  of  economy  which  gives  skill  to  conceal  cheap 
tilings," — Chicago  Tribune, 


40 


MISS  CORSON'S  WORKS  ON  COOKERY  AND  DOMESTIC 
ECONOMY. 

TWENTY-FIVE  CENT  DINNERS  FOR  FAMILIES  OF  SIX.— Send 
ten  cents,  and  postage  stamp,  for  this  invaluable  little  book 
which  tells  you  how  to  prepare  a  good  dinner  for  twenty-five 
cents. 

Address — 

Miss  JULIET  CORSON, 

Supt.  JT.  Y.  Cooking  School, 

8  St.  Mark's  Place,  New  York, 


MISS  CORSON'S  COOKING  MANUAL;  or,  Practical  Directions 
for  Economical  Every -Day  Cookery."  New  York:  Dodd? 
Mead  &  Co.    Pp.  144^  priee  jo  cents. 


OUR  HOUSEHOLD  COUNCIL;  or,  The  Study  of  Domestic  Econo- 
my as  a  Social  Accomplishment.   (Now  being published  serially.) 


FOODS:  Their  Sources,  Uses  and  Methods  of  Preparation  :  An 
Every  -  day  Book  for  Housekeepers  and  Cooks.  {Nearly 
Ready.) 


THE  BILL  OF  FARE,  with  Accompanying  Receipts  and  Estimated 
Cost.  A  simple  and  complete  guide  for  young  housekeepers. 
{Nearly  Ready.) 


A  TEXT-BOOK  FOR  COOKING  SCHOOLS.— Designed  to  forward 
the  establishment  of  Cooking  Schools  throughout  the  country. 
(Nearly  Ready.) 


r 


C  c  C  C 
d  C      C  C 

C   f  cc 

C'    C  c 

IP  S- 

CT  '    C*'  d 

C  (  c-d 

c   c  d  d 

C  O  C-C 

c  c  ccc 

C  C  CC. 

d  c  d  C 
<:  c  o  c 

*  V:  c  c^c: 

££££ 

ccc  c 

Vc<  5 

CCC  C 

ccc  c 

CC  C  C 
d  cc  :  d 
C  c  c  C 

cccc 

C  eo  <        c  • 

dc<  <. 

Ccc.C 

C(CC  « 

ccc 

dec  C 

Ccc 

Ccc  < 

deed 

CCC 

CCC 
.  de  c  " 
-  ccc 

dec:  c 
!      ccc  « 

dec 

3h*  csc: 
c  c  c^c 


Si 

e  CC 
CCd 

cc  c: 
ac  c: 
CCC' 
gc  c. 

c  c 
c  d* 

c  d 
c 


dc. 
cc 
•c  c. 

c  c 
C  c 

.  Ccc 

*m 

c  C 

CC- 
CC 
Cc 
CC 
c;c 
CC 

Cc 
Cc 
c  c 


d  «C  C  < 
c   c   c  < 

f    §    f  ^ 

§        c  £ 

c  <  c  d 
c  cc  c 

C  C  d  < 
^C    C  CJ 

CCC  < 

£?rc 

c 

ccc  - 
pec 

CCd 

CCC 

tecc 
ccc: 

dec 
CC 
CC 

-  Cc  C 
d.  dec 
<  dec 

<  CCC 

c  dec:  "  < 

d  c  c  < 

d  cc  < 
d  cc 

\  m 

e    d    c  c 

•c  c  c  c 
e     <  cc 


f  C  c; 

^c  c 
c  c 

ftCcc  d*< 
*   c    <  « 

III  ; 
Zll  l 

<  dec  ^ 

e  C  CCC  d 
c   C  CCC  C 
c  CCd  d 
•  <  dec  c 
c  dCC  C 
c  ccc 
e  c  cc  c  d 
c   c  CCC  C 

m^m 

c  cccc 


^c? 

^cf 


CccC 


cc>  c  C  CCCC 


'  <5CC  C  c 

cc  e  C 

acc  cc 
<cce  c  c 
ccc  cC 


cccc 


exec  c  c  CCCC 

c  c  cccc:. 

cccc  C  e  CCC! 

a.*c  c_  <  cccC 

cccc  c  CccC 

cc<c  c  c  c 

cc  d  CCC 

CcCd  CCC, 

Cc<C  C  CcC 

c^cc  C  CC  d 

cc^  d  ccc: 

'  <3^-  X<S  Ccc 


occc;    ^     Ccd  ' 
c  cc. 
cCd  CC 
CC  -  C  CC 

(iCd  cc 

c^X:  C  CC 
Cj^CC.      C  c< 

cjcc:  -c  ci 
I  "  cecr  -c  c^ 


c<c:  «c 

^   c  CC  C 

C  <C  CC 

^    c  «  C 

cc 

'  c  cc 
c«  ^ 

-  c      .  c 

-  <  <CC      •  ^ 

r  c  cc  ^ 

-  <:  cc<C 
=  <:  <cc 
!  d<% 

r  c  ^ 
r  c  «c  c 

^    C  «Cdc 
C    C  '«fiCe 

d  c<^L 

cc  c« 
c  c  d 
CC  c  <edc 

CC   d  ecC 


c  «c  cc:  ec 
^c  cccc 
c  3:  .  «:  cc 
^C    cc  ec 

ccc 

^ ■  V 

^IP&c<d 

c 

^^^^^cir 

5CCCCC 
dcccc 

ccccct 
dc  CCCC 

$  cecccc 

e  creccc 
;     c  c  c  c< 

.  ^ccccc 

C  crcccac 

c      «cc  <C 

creed 

CcCCClC 

CCCC 

CCtcC 

cec  c  cc    c  .  ;  c 

CCCd     e  • 
CCCCC  e 

cccec  c 

CCCed  e  c 

CCCCC  e  ( 

deecd-  e  •- 

cceec  c 
deceit  c 

cccec  €  c 

<SCCC< 

cceec: 

cccc  ' 

:    cccc    .  c 

c  cccc 

C  CccC 
CCC  C^ 
CCc  CCC 

cccc     eccc  ^ 


If 

^-cd 

e  CCd 
CCC 


"  c<cj 
cc 

CcC- 
ccc 

cxCc 
d<tCc 

ccc 

cccc 
CCC^ 
<3C 

dec 

ccc 

ccc 


d  CCC 

<c  ccc 
c  ec  5 
c  e  c  <l 

:^C     CC  C 

C    CC  d 

c   ec  c 

_c  ccc 
K  CC  < 
c    cc  < 
d  ccc  < 

\d  CCCC 

^d  ccc:  ^ 

;fC  ccc .-'.« 


CCCC 
ecC^C 

^^ec 


Conservation  Resources 
Lig-FreeP  Type  1 
Ph  8.S,  Buffered 


