1 


■H 

SMBSSi 


Raw* 


LU 


[SON  HARVEY 


1 


Class  '    A 

Book._ 

GopigM0 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSm 


Food  Facts 
for  the  Home-Maker 


Food  Facts 
for  the  Home- Maker 

BY 
LUCILE  STIMSON  HARVEY,  A.M. 

Town  Dietitian,  Brookline,  Mass. 


BOSTON  AND  NEW  YORK 

HOUGHTON  MIFFLIN  COMPANY 

THE  RIVERSIDE  PRESS  CAMBRIDGE 
1920 


*■< 


<v 


COPYRIGHT,   1920,   BY  LUCILE  STXMSON  HARVEY 
ALL  RIGHTS  RESERVED 


MAK  31  rd^O 
©CU565413 


TO 

E.  A.  H. 


PREFACE 

This  book  is  intended  to  be  a  help  to  the  young  house- 
keeper who  is  starting  out  in  the  new  home  without 
either  a  knowledge  of  science  or  the  technical  training 
which  could  help  her.  This  is  more  often  the  case  of  the 
girl  who  has  been  to  college  and  has  devoted  her  time 
to  other  subjects  outside  the  home,  so  that  she  starts  in 
handicapped  on  the  business  of  home-making,  than  it 
is  the  case  of  her  sister  who  has  stayed  at  home  and 
has  been  trained  there  by  her  mother. 

The  book  is  also  intended  to  help  those  women  who 
have  kept  house  for  years  and  who  are  excellent  cooks 
and  careful  planners.  It  should  give  a  scientific  founda- 
tion to  their  technical  skill,  showing  them  the  reasons 
why  they  have  been  doing  certain  things  all  their  lives, 
and  perhaps  showing  them  ways  in  which  they  may 
shorten  processes  and  thus  save  time  and  energy. 

In  preparing  this  book  I  have  used  material  I  have 
been  gathering  for  some  years,  but  this  has  been  modi- 
fied, or  at  least  clarified,  by  what  I  have  learned  in  ten 
years'  experience  in  my  own  home,  where  for  much  of 
the  time  I  have  done  all  the  cooking.  I  have  used  some 
of  this  material  in  my  lectures  during  the  past  two 
years  and  a  half  in  my  classes  in  Dietetics  for  the  Red 
Cross,  in  Food  Conservation  at  Wellesley  College,  and 
at  the  Brookline  Food  Center  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Public  Safety  Committee. 

Few  women  realize  the  great  importance  of  the 
proper  feeding  of  the  family.  Undernourishment  among 


viii  PREFACE 

our  children  in  the  United  States  is  far  more  prevalent 
than  is  generally  supposed,  and  is  found  quite  as  often 
in  the  homes  of  the  well-to-do  as  in  those  of  the  poor. 
It  is  the  result  of  ignorance  rather  than  of  poverty  or 
the  high  cost  of  food.  Children  need  a  well-chosen  but 
simple  diet. 

This  book  is  written  primarily  to  show  mothers  how 
they  can  feed  their  children  easily  and  economically. 
A  little  attention  to  the  subject  by  the  home-makers 
will  make  the  greatest  difference  to  the  nation  in  pro- 
ducing strong,  well-nourished  men  and  women,  cap- 
able of  doing  their  part  in  carrying  the  great  responsi- 
bilities placed  upon  our  country  at  this  time.  I  have  a 
great  hope  that  the  mothers  and  home-makers  of 
America  will  take  the  lessons  of  this  book  to  heart  and 
that  it  may  play  some  real  part  in  giving  us  a  stronger 
and  sterner  race. 

This  book,  while  it  contains  some  recipes,  is  not  in- 
tended to  compete  with  cook-books,  but  rather  to  sup- 
plement them.  I  have  kept  the  order  of  material 
customarily  used  in  cook-books,  that  of  following  the 
courses  of  a  dinner.  This  necessitated  the  present  order 
of  the  two  chapters  on  fats  and  sugars.  If  I  had  adhered 
more  closely  to  the  discussion  of  foods  according  to 
their  chemical  composition,  these  two  chapters  would 
have  appeared  in  reverse  order. 

Acknowledgment  is  due  to  the  Department  of  Uni- 
versity Extension  of  the  Board  of  Education  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts  for  permission  to 
use,  in  chapter  xiv,  the  material  which  I  prepared  two 
years  ago  for  the  Department  course  entitled  "Foods 
and  Nutrition."  I  also  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 


PREFACE  ix 

thank  the  Walter  M.  Lowney  Company  of  Boston  for 
permitting  me  to  reprint  the  plates  showing  the  cutting 
of  meat  from  the  Lowney  Cook-Book  (The  Walter  M. 
Lowney  Co.,  Boston,  1908).  I  am  indebted  to  my  sister 
Dorothy  Stimson,  Ph.D.,  for  her  assistance  in  revising 
the  text. 

L.  S.  H. 
Brookline,  Mass. 
September,  19 19 


CONTENTS 

I.  The  Importance  of  Food  i 

The  housekeeper's  responsibility;  the  profession 
of  housekeeping;  health  dependent  on  food; 
food  habits 

II.  The  Kitchen  as  a  Workshop  6 

Skilled  labor  in  the  kitchen;  plan  of  kitchen; 
kitchen  equipment :  labor-saving  devices ;  stoves ; 
care  of  stoves;  refrigerators;  sink;  utensils; 
cleanliness  essential;  dish-washing;  personal 
cleanliness 

III.  The  Composition  of  Foods  17 

What  is  a  "food  " ;  water;  carbohydrates :  starch 
and  sugars,  woody  fiber;  fats;  protein;  mineral 
matter:  iron,  calcium,  sodium,  potassium; 
"vi  taurines" 

IV.  Milk  and  Eggs  26 

Dairying,  an  essential  industry;  make-up  of 
milk ;  value  of  milk  as  food ;  how  to  use  milk ; 
care  of  milk ;  grades  of  milk ;  value  of  skimmed 
milk.  Eggs :  how  to  cook ;  care  of  eggs 
Recipes :  milk  soups ;  egg  dishes 

V.  Meat  42 

What  it  is  made  of;  what  makes  meat  tough; 
cuts  of  beef ;  ways  of  cooking  meat ;  soup-mak- 
ing;  roasting;   broiling;   stewing;   poultry:   to 
dress  a  chicken ;  to  truss  a  bird ;  giblets 
Recipes:  soup  stock;  stews;  other  meat  dishes 

VI.  Fish  69 

Groups  of  fish;  buying  fish;  preserving  of  fish; 
care  of  fish 

Recipes :  baked  fish ;  fillets  of  fish ;  salt  fish ;  shell- 
fish 


xii  CONTENTS 

VII.  Other  Meat  Substitutes  :  Cheese  and  Legumes    85 
Cheese:  food  value;  kinds;  ripening;  digestion 
of;  care  in  the  home;  use  in  the  diet 
Legumes:  value  as  food;  how  to  use;  peanuts; 
nuts 

Recipes:  cheese  dishes;  pea  and  bean  soups; 
legumes  as  meat  substitutes 

VIII.  Cereals  105 

Changes  starch  undergoes;  source  of  starch; 
structure  of  kernel;  use  of  grains  for  food; 
milling;  grains  used  for  bread-making;  barley; 
corn ;  oats ;  rice ;  rye ;  breakfast  cereals ;  cooking 
of  cereals 

Recipes:  cereal  soups;  baked  dishes;  oatmeal 
pudding 

IX.  Flour  Mixtures  120 

Wheat;  flours;  proportions  for  mixtures;  effect 
of  ingredients;  methods  of  mixing;  leavening 
agents;  soda  and  sour  milk;  baking-powders; 
yeast 
Recipes :  muffins ;  breads ;  cakes 

X.  Fruits  and  Vegetables  145 

Composition ;  a  source  of  minerals ;  a  source  of 
"  vitamines  ";  grouping  of  vegetables;  cooking 
of  vegetables;  uses  of  fruit;  summary  of  the 
cooking  of  vegetables;  pectin 
Recipes :  vegetable  soups ;  potato  dishes ;  vege- 
tables 

XI.  Fats  164 

Digestion;  need  to  save  fats;  nature  of;  use  of; 
table  fats;  cooking  fats:  animal,   vegetable; 
place  in  the  diet;  rules  to  avoid  waste;  render- 
ing; care 
Recipes:  savory  fats;  salad  dressings;  salads 

XII;  Sugar  181 

Value  as  food;  danger  of  improper  use;  sugar 
supply ;  kinds  of  sugars ;  complex,  cane ;  simple, 
glucose,  fruit;  action  on  boiling;  caramel;  how 
to  use  sugar 


CONTENTS  xiii 

Recipes:  candy;  starch  puddings;  fruit  pud- 
dings; pudding  sauces;  gelatine  desserts; 
whipped-cream  desserts ;  frozen  desserts 

XIII.  Food  Accessories:  Beverages  and  Condi- 
ments 211 

Place  of  tea  and  coffee  in  the  diet;  tea,  kinds, 
how  to  make;  coffee;   cocoa;  fruit  drinks; 
herbs ;  spices ;  extracts ;  pickles 
Recipes :  coffee ;  chocolate ;  cold  drinks ;  mar- 
malades ;  conserves ;  pickles 

XIV.  The  Use  of  Food  in  the  Body  229 

The  process  one  of  combustion ;  the  organs  of 
digestion:  mouth,  stomach,  intestines;  influ- 
ences for  good  digestion ;  absorption ;  the  uses 
of  food  in  the  body;  elimination  of  wastes 

XV.  The  Measurement  of  Food  Values  238 

The  body  need  for  fuel ;  fuel  foods ;  the  heat 
unit,  the  calorie;  100-calorie  portions;  a  suf- 
ficient diet ;  dietary  standards ;  need  for  build- 
ing material;  protein  needed;  other  sub- 
stances needed 

XVI.  The  Making  of  Menus  248 

Cost  of  food;  five  food  groups;  division  of 
food  into  meals ;  variety  essential ;  breakfast ; 
luncheon  and  supper;  dinner 
Menus  for  dinners 

XVII.  Food  for  Infants  and  Young  Children  260 
Mother's  milk  best;  conditions  affecting 
breast  feeding;  modifying  cow's  milk;  other 
foods  for  infants;  regular  feeding  hours; 
cereal  gruels  added;  other  additions  to  the 
diet;  good  habits  formed  early;  food  for  child 
2  to  5  years  old.  Sample  diets:  12  months, 
18  months,  2  to  4  years  old.  List  of  foods 
allowed  a  child  2  to  4  years  old 
Recipes :  infant  foods 

XVIII.  Food  for  School-Children  273 

Good  supply  necessary  for  growth;  signs  of 
good  health;  the  right  food;  vagaries  harm- 
ful; the  problem  of  lunch;  the  school  lunch. 


xiv  CONTENTS 

Menu  for  school  lunch-box 
Recipes :  cookies 

XIX.  Food  for  Invalids  282 

Typical  invalid  diets;  serving;  food  require- 
ment in  sickness;  food  for  slight  illnesses: 
colds,  digestive  troubles;  food  for  special  dis- 
eases: fevers,  tuberculosis,  diabetes,  gout  and 
rheumatism 

Recipes:  invalid  drinks,  gruels,  puddings 
jellies 

Abbreviations  and  a  Table  of  Measures  293 

Bibliography  295 

Index  301 


Food  Facts 
for  the  Home-Maker 


Food  Facts 
For  the  Home-Maker 

• 

CHAPTER  I 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  FOOD 

There  is  one  thing  all  men  have  in  common  with  the 
animals  —  the  necessity  for  daily  food.  For  rich  and 
poor  alike  a  certain  amount  of  food  is  necessary  to 
keep  the  body  in  good  condition.  But  the  three  meals 
a  day,  three  hundred  and  sixty-five  days  in  the  year, 
are  the  bane  of  housekeepers  the  world  over.  They 
must  be  planned,  prepared,  and  served  with  unvary- 
ing regularity  in  order  to  maintain  the  health  and 
efficiency  of  the  family. 

Although  each  household  has  different  conditions 
to  meet  which  make  the  problem  more  or  less  distinct, 
at  the  same  time  there  are  world  problems  The  house- 
and  situations  to-day  which  put  us  all  on  keeper's  re- 
much  the  same  footing  whether  we  keep  sP°nsibllity 
house  in  our  own  homes  or  depend  upon  hotels  and 
restaurants  for  our  meals.  The  war  has  brought  us 
face  to  face  with  the  fact  that  each  individual,  in 
regard  to  the  food  he  consumes  as  well  as  in  other 
respects,  is  no  longer  a  unit  by  himself,  but  is  a  part 
of  the  community,  and  is  responsible  to  the  world  at 
large  for  his  likes  and  dislikes,  or  for  the  surplus  he 
consumes  over  and  above  his  actual  needs. 


2     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

This  situation  is  true  not  for  war-time  alone.  As  one 
result  of  the  war  it  ought  to  be  brought  home  to  each 
of  us  that  we  have  a  responsibility  for  food  shortage 
wherever  it  exists.  We  should  have  a  part  to  play  at 
all  times  in  alleviating  and  controlling  famine  condi- 
tions whether  in  Armenia,  Serbia,  India,  China,  or 
wherever  else  the  situation  is  less  favorable  than  it  is 
for  us  here  in  America. 

But  it  is  not  only  these  extraordinary  conditions  in 
far-away  lands  which  should  cause  us  to  take  more 
heed  to  our  food.  We  have  learned  some  facts  here  at 
home  during  the  last  two  years  which  should  give  us 
pause  and  make  us  wonder  if  we  have  put  all  of  our 
great  wealth  of  national  resources  to  the  best  possible 
use.  Why  should  such  a  large  proportion  of  our  boys, 
coming  in  most  instances  directly  out  of  our  homes, 
have  to  be  rejected  by  the  draft  boards  the  country 
over  as  unfit  for  service?  Would  our  girls  have  shown 
up  any  better?  Why  should  fifty  per  cent  of  our  chil- 
dren in  our  public  schools  be  below  normal  in  weight? 
Yet  such  is  the  case  in  the  cities  and  towns  where 
investigations  have  been  made.  Why  should  the 
United  States  be  the  only  country  where  the  death- 
rate  is  increasing  between  the  ages  of  thirty-five  and 
fifty-five,  the  period  during  which  the  individual 
should  be  of  the  greatest  economic  value  to  the  State? 

Do  not  all  these  matters  come  straight  home  to  the 
housekeeper?  Is  she  doing  her  job  as  well  as  it  ought 
The  prof es-  to  ^e  done?  No  man  starts  in  business  at 
sion  of  the  top,  nor  in  this  day  does  he  begin  to 

ouse  eeping  practjce  a  profession  unless  he  has  spent 
much  time  in  preliminary  training.  Housekeeping  is  a 
profession  of  vital  importance  to  the  health  of  the 


THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  FOOD  3 

nation  as  a  whole;  for  a  nation  is  only  an  aggregation 
of  homes,  and  as  a  chain  is  only  as  strong  as  its  weakest 
link,  so  the  strength  of  a  nation  is  only  the  strength  of 
its  weakest  home.  The  individuals  from  such  a  home 
have  to  be  cared  for  by  the  State  or  the  community  as 
a  whole.  This,  then,  makes  the  housekeeper  or  home- 
maker  the  most  important  member  of  the  community, 
for  the  value  of  her  services  is  judged  by  the  economic 
worth  and  fitness  for  life  of  the  citizens  who  come 
from  her  home. 

From  this  point  of  view  it  is  evident  that  in  order 
to  make  the  profession  of  housekeeping  a  success,  the 
fundamentals  at  least  should  be  understood.  Even 
college  graduates  going  into  business  start  at  the  bot- 
tom in  order  to  become  familiar  with  business  methods. 
A  mastery  of  the  principles  of  the  business  of  house- 
keeping is  just  as  essential.  This  includes  touching  on 
many  branches  of  science,  biology,  botany,  physics, 
physiology,  psychology,  economics,  and  above  all, 
chemistry.  Besides  this,  a  housekeeper  should  have 
some  technical  training;  for,  while  experience  is  the 
best  teacher,  we  can  always  gain  in  quickness  of 
method  and  sureness  of  results  from  the  experience  of 
somebody  else.  This  valuable  home-maker  of  ours 
should  also  have  some  imagination  and  ingenuity, 
together  with  self-assurance,  so  that  she  need  not  be 
bound  by  a  cook-book  and  prescribed  equipment,  but 
could  use  what  material  and  utensils  she  has  at  hand 
and  still  produce  satisfactory  meals.  She  must  also  be 
able  to  gain  variety  through  change  of  flavors,  or 
manner  of  serving  —  appealing  to  the  senses  of  the 
individuals  to  be  served. 

Each  home-maker  must  necessarily  know  the  indi- 


4     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

vidual  requirements  of  her  group  and  regulate  her 
Health  de-  meals  accordingly.  Too  scanty  food  pre- 
pendent  vents  growth  and  lowers  vitality,  mental 

on  food  ag  wejj  ag  phyS}cai .  so  much  so  that  mal- 

nutrition is  acknowledged  by  social  workers  to  be  a 
cause  of  backwardness,  drunkenness,  and  crime.  Too 
much  food,  on  the  other  hand,  dulls  the  mind  and 
clogs  the  body.  Poor  choice  may  mean  loss  of  a  day's 
work,  or  the  lowering  of  efficiency  because  of  a  head- 
ache or  other  minor  ill.  How  often  we  hear,  "So-and-So 
has  one  of  her  bilious  attacks";  or,  "Daughter  has  a 
sick  headache  to-day."  Improper  food  also  lowers  the 
power  of  resistance  to  disease  and  causes  susceptibility 
to  colds. 

In  order  to  maintain  the  highest  mental  and  spirit- 
ual life,  the  physical  should  be  kept  in  such  good 
working  order  as  to  be  entirely  subconscious.  We  can- 
not do  our  best  mental  work  when  we  are  conscious  of 
the  lunch  we  have  just  eaten. 

Nature  plans  wonderfully.  An  animal,  when  left  to 
itself,  will  pick  out  of  a  wide  variety  of  foods  those 
articles  which  will  be  most  conducive  to  its  health  and 
growth.  Instinct,  however,  cannot  be  relied  on  en- 
tirely in  the  training  of  children.  Complete  loss  of 
appetite  is  usually  the  first  symptom  in  most  illnesses, 
and  an  abnormal  craving  for  some  one  particular  type 
of  food  may  mean  the  need  of  the  body  for  some 
special  ingredient  in  that  food.  Whims  and  fancies  are 
very  easily  acquired,  however,  and  whenever  possible 
should  be  avoided. 

Habits  and  traditions  have  also  grown  up  through 
the  years  concerning  our  food,  and  we  still  hear  an 
ignorant  nursemaid  urge  a  child  to  eat  the  crusts  in 


THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  FOOD  5 

order  to  have  curly  hair,  or  tell  an  older  child  fish  will 
give  him  brains.  A  meat  diet  has  had  to  Food  habitg 
bear  the  blame  for  crime  and  misery  for 
years. 

Certain  of  our  habits,  however,  are  based  on  a 
scientific  foundation.  There  is  a  reason  for  eating 
butter  on  our  bread,  or  for  serving  pork  with  baked 
beans,  or  cheese  with  rice  or  macaroni.  Nutrition  is  an 
exact  science,  and  has  been  built  up  slowly  through 
the  years  from  the  studies  and  investigations  made  by 
many  famous  scientists,  each  one  adding  one  more 
round  to  the  ladder  of  knowledge.  Some  of  the  steps 
have  been:  the  discovery  of  the  circulation  of  the 
blood;  the  function  of  oxygen  in  the  body;  the  evolu- 
tion and  measurement  of  heat  and  energy  from  food 
in  the  body;  the  composition  of  foods  and  their  rela- 
tion to  body  activity;  and  the  recent  discovery,  the 
presence  or  absence  in  foods  of  certain  substances  that 
are  essential  to  growth. 

New  discoveries  and  new  studies  are  constantly 
being  made  with  which  the  housekeeper  should  keep 
in  touch.  They  are  popularized  sooner  or  later  in  some 
of  the  magazines,  but  the  best  way  to  keep  accurately 
informed  is  to  have  one's  name  put  on  the  mailing  list 
for  the  Farmers'  Bulletins,  Bureau  of  Publications, 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Washington,  D.C. 


CHAPTER  II 

THE  KITCHEN  AS  A  WORKSHOP 

In  these  days  when  human  labor  is  in  great  demand 
and  can  command  high  wages,  it  is  more  necessary 
Skilled  labor  than  ever  to  conserve  effort  in  every  pos- 
in  the  kitchen  s[]j\e  way#  jf  the  home-maker  is  paying 
somebody  else  to  do  her  necessary  housework,  she 
should  see  that  the  conditions  are  such  that  it  can  be 
done  with  no  waste  of  time  or  energy;  while  if  she  is 
doing  her  own  work,  she  should  plan  so  that  she  will 
still  have  time  to  devote  to  the  enjoyment  of  her  chil- 
dren and  to  share  in  activities  outside  her  home,  of 
which  there  are  so  many  nowadays  of  interest  to  wide- 
awake women.  The  time  has  passed  when  the  mother 
of  the  family  is  the  household  drudge  working  hard 
from  six  or  before  in  the  morning  until  eight  or  nine  at 
night,  often  too  tired  to  take  any  part  in  the  family 
recreations,  and  too  absorbed  within  her  own  narrow 
horizon  to  be  interested  in  what  is  going  on  in  the 
world  around  her. 

Many  of  our  business  concerns  are  employing  effi- 
ciency experts  to  come  into  the  factory  or  the  store 
or  the  office,  to  study  the  methods  used  and  to  make 
recommendations  for  the  saving  of  time  here,  the  sim- 
plification of  books  there,  or  the  use  of  more  modern 
machinery  or  equipment  in  another  place.  Why  should 
we  not  do  the  same  in  our  business  of  home-making? 
It  is  easier  to  go  on  day  after  day  doing  the  same  thing 
over  and  over  in  the  same  way.  Yet  if  we  stop  to  think 


THE  KITCHEN  AS  A  WORKSHOP  7 

about  it,  the  saving  of  one  trip  across  the  kitchen  here 
or  of  two  minutes  in  the  washing  of  the  dishes  there, 
each  time,  would  count  up  to  six  minutes  saved  each 
day,  forty-two  minutes  each  week,  and  in  a  month  to 
enough  time  to  have  amounted  to  much  value  if  put 
into  good  reading. 

The  old-fashioned  kitchen  was  an  attractive  place 
to  look  at,  large  and  airy,  often  opening  directly  out  of 
doors  on  two  sides,  with  its  spotless  pine  floor  and  its 
numerous  pantries  and  closets  especially  interesting 
to  curious  and  ever-hungry  youngsters.  But  what  a 
slave  the  woman  was  who  ruled  in  such  a  place,  and 
how  hard  her  work  was  made  for  her!  For  years  and 
years  she  had  to  pump,  often  at  some  distance  from 
the  house,  all  the  water  she  used,  carry  it  in  by  bucket 
and  heat  it  on  the  stove.  Dishwashing  then  was  in- 
deed an  undertaking  compared  with  dishwashing  to- 
day in  our  modern  apartments  where  we  have  only  to 
turn  the  faucet  to  have  scalding  water  at  all  hours  of 
the  day  and  night.  Then,  too,  the  distances  were  so 
great  between  closet  and  stove,  and  stove  and  sink, 
that  even  if  the  family  ate  their  meals  in  the  kitchen, 
the  cook  must  necessarily  walk  miles  in  preparing  a 
meal.  No  wonder  she  was  often  too  weary  to  eat  any  of 
it  herself  when  she  finally  had  it  ready  for  the  family. 

In  planning  a  kitchen  there  are  two  aims  which 
should  be  kept  in  mind.  The  first  is  to  secure  cleanli- 
ness as  easily  as  possible;  the  other,  to  Plan  of 
make  sure  of  the  comfort  and  convenience  kitchen 
of  the  worker.  Thus  the  small  kitchen  has  a  great 
advantage  over  the  large  one.  Where  utensils  are  near 
at  hand,  many  steps  are  saved  and  hence  much  energy. 
In  these  times  of  economy  it  is  well  not  to  overlook 


8     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

the  fact  that  in  order  to  have  enough  energy  we  must 
burn  up  food  in  the  body ;  hence  by  avoiding  waste  of 
energy,  we  have  an  effective  method  of  saving  food. 

It  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  a  kitchen  is  a  place 
for  work,  with  a  definite  job  to  be  accomplished  — 
those  three  meals  a  day.  A  carpenter  does  not  keep 
his  hammer  and  his  saw  in  one  closet  off  at  one  side  of 
his  shop,  his  nails  and  screws  in  another,  and  his  lum- 
ber in  a  third.  He  has  everything  close  at  hand,  grouped 
conveniently  about  his  work-bench.  He  can  stand  still 
and  yet  reach  all  his  tools.  A  place  for  everything  and 
everything  in  its  place.  So  should  it  be  in  the  kitchen. 
To  be  sure,  it  does  not  look  as  attractive  between 
meals,  when  everything  is  cleared  away,  as  does  the 
one  that  has  pretty  muslin  curtains  and  pots  of  flowers 
in  the  windows,  a  rocking-chair  in  the  corner,  and  blue- 
and-white  portieres  in  all  the  closet  doors,  and  not  a 
pot  or  pan,  knife,  spoon,  or  brush  in  sight.  But  that  is 
a  sitting-room,  not  a  workshop. 

Everything  about  the  kitchen  should  if  possible  be 
easily  washable.  Tiled  walls  are  ideal  but  expensive, 
and  an  enamel  paint  that  can  be  easily  wiped  off  with 
a  damp  cloth  is  very  satisfactory.  Linoleum  on  the 
floor  is  more  easily  washed  than  wood  and  is  softer 
under  foot  than  tile  or  concrete.  Oilcloth  makes  a  good 
covering  for  closet  shelves,  and  so  does  enamel  paint. 
Tables  can  now  be  bought  having  enamel  or  a  white 
composition  top ;  they  are  very  easily  cleaned  and  look 
well  also. 

If  one  is  fortunate  enough  to  be  building  a  house  or 
can  make  suggestions  at  the  time  of  building,  it  is  well 
to  put  much  thought  into  the  arrangement  of  the 
kitchen  so  as  to  have  it  convenient.  Plans  of  model 


THE  KITCHEN  AS  A  WORKSHOP  9 

kitchens  can  be  found  in  books  on  Household  Manage- 
ment;  but  there  are  a  few  points  to  be  especially  noted. 
The  sink  should  be  well  lighted  both  by  day  and  night, 
so  it  should  be  just  under  or  beside  a  window.  Steps 
are  saved  by  having  the  stove  within  easy  reach  of  the 
sink,  for  much  of  the  food  to  be  cooked  is  prepared  at 
the  sink  and  kettles  must  be  filled  with  water  there. 
A  kitchen-cabinet  on  the  wall  opposite  the  sink  is  far 
more  convenient  than  pantries.  Here  the  housekeeper 
can  keep  all  the  utensils  as  well  as  the  materials  needed 
in  making  breadstuff s,  cake,  pastry,  etc.,  and  has  at 
hand  the  pastry-board  and  space  for  mixing.  With  an 
easily  moved  table  on  which  hot  pots  can  be  placed, 
and  the  dishes  after  washing,  and  with  shelves  for 
china,  the  equipment  is  complete. 

There  should  be  a  shelf  over  or  near  the  stove  for 
salt,  pepper,  sauces,  and  flavors  used  at  the  stove. 
There  should  also  be  plenty  of  hooks  over  or  beside 
the  sink  for  utensils  used  at  the  sink,  such  as  soap- 
shaker,  sink-brush  and  shovel,  egg-beater,  meat-forks 
and  skewers,  vegetable-brush,  potato-masher,  whisks, 
etc.  Each  should  have  its  own  hook  and  should  always 
be  returned  to  that  hook.  No  article  should  be  there 
that  is  not  in  constant  use.  Also  they  should  hang 
sufficiently  high  so  as  not  to  interfere  with  the  cleaning 
of  the  sink.  Articles  to  be  used  together  should  be  kept 
together,  such  as  teapot  and  tea  canister,  coffee,  coffee- 
pot and  coffee-grinder. 

It  is  best,  if  possible,  not  to  have  the  refrigerator  in 
the  kitchen  itself  because  of  the  heat;  but  it  should  be 
easily  accessible  both  for  the  iceman  and  the  cook.  If 
it  can  stand  in  an  entry,  the  iceman  does  not  tramp 
through  the  kitchen  bringing  in  dirt  from  the  street. 


io    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

KITCHEN  EQUIPMENT 

Many  of  us  have  to  take  our  kitchens  as  we  find 
them,  and  have  no  say  as  to  the  relative  positions  of 
Labor-saving  the  permanent  fixtures.  We  can,  however, 
devices  see  that  the  utensils  and  equipment  are  as 

they  should  be.  More  and  more  so-called  "labor-saving 
devices"  are  to  be  had  until  it  is  easy  to  conceive  of  the 
kitchen  in  the  future  in  which  electricity  will  not  only 
be  the  means  of  light  and  heat,  but  will  also  be  the 
motive  force  for  nearly  everything,  not  only  for  dish- 
washers, but  also  for  bread-mixers,  ice-cream  freezers, 
egg-beaters,  etc.  We  are  so  accustomed  to  the  Dover 
egg-beater,  the  Universal  bread-mixer,  the  meat- 
chopper, that  we  can  hardly  think  of  them  as  being 
labor-saving  devices ;  yet  a  woman  cooking  for  a  good- 
sized  family  would  not  be  without  them.  The  efficient 
home-maker  should  be  constantly  on  the  watch  for 
new  devices  that  may  really  be  a  means  of  saving  time 
and  labor  for  her. 

The  ideal  system  for  cooking,  whether  it  be  coal, 

gas,  or  electricity,  is  the  one  which  gives  the  largest 

possible  percentage  of  its  heat  for  the 

StOVeS  r        .   .  •  ir         •    i 

cooking  process  itself  without  waste  into 
the  room,  and  at  the  same  time  puts  a  definite  amount 
of  heat  under  quick  control  with  a  great  saving  of  fuel 
and  labor  in  operating.  Measured  by  this  standard,  the 
coal  range  is  not  ideal,  since  it  loses  much  heat  into  the 
room,  so  much  in  fact  that  it  is  customary  not  to  pro- 
vide any  other  means  of  heating  the  kitchen  where 
there  is  a  coal  range.  It  is  also  very  slow  to  control, 
though  many  like  the  results  obtained,  especially  from 
the  oven  in  baking.  It  also  has  the  advantage  over  a 


THE  KITCHEN  AS  A  WORKSHOP        n 

gas  stove  of  constant  low  heat  for  soups,  stews,  and 
other  long-process  cookery.  It  is  dirty  to  care  for,  how- 
ever, and  requires  much  energy  in  carrying  coal  and 
ashes.  On  the  other  hand,  both  gas  stoves  and  electric 
ones  have  the  advantage  of  being  easy  to  control  and 
to  keep  clean.  When  used  in  connection  with  a  fireless 
cooker  separately  or  as  a  part  of  the  stove  itself,  either 
is  far  preferable  to  a  coal  or  wood  range  for  convenience 
and  economy.  Gas  or  electric  stoves  combined  with 
fireless  cookers  can  be  found  on  the  market  nowadays. 
Whatever  variety  of  stove  is  used,  it  must  be  thor- 
oughly understood  and  kept  in  good  order.  A  coal 

stove  should  be  taken  apart  and  the  drafts  „       ,  . 

11  1-    1  r  ii  i  1       Care  of  stoves 

and  dampers  studied  carefully,  so  that  the 

effect  of  each  is  well  known.  The  underlying  principle 
of  all  stoves  is  the  same;  that  is,  a  fire  to  burn  well 
must  have  plenty  of  air,  as  all  burning  is  combustion, 
or  the  uniting  of  a  substance  with  the  oxygen  of  the 
air.  In  lighting  a  fire  in  the  stove  we  empty  the  grate 
completely.  Then  we  place  the  most  inflammable  ma- 
terial at  the  bottom  —  paper,  excelsior,  or  shavings. 
The  less  easily  ignited  comes  next  —  chips  or  kindling 
—  and  the  hardest  of  all  on  top  —  coal  or  large  pieces 
of  wood.  Before  applying  a  match,  we  make  sure  that 
the  drafts  are  correct.  The  one  in  the  chimney  should 
be  wide  open;  the  slide  below  the  fire-bed  should  be 
open  and  the  one  above  it  closed;  for  the  air  must 
come  through  the  fire  from  below  and  be  able  to  pass 
unblocked  straight  up  the  chimney.  When  the  fire  is 
burning  well,  it  may  be  checked  by  closing  the  chimney 
damper  all  or  part  way,  and  also  the  slide  below  the 
fire-bed.  Care  must  always  be  taken  to  prevent  so 
great  a  flow  of  cold  air  against  the  bottom  of  the  fire 


12     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

as  will  check  its  combustion.  If  the  oven  is  to  be  used, 
the  oven  damper  must  be  closed,  which  forces  the  hot 
air  to  pass  around  the  oven  box  before  going  up  the 
chimney.  To  check  the  fire  completely,  the  slide  above 
the  fire-bed  should  be  opened  to  enable  the  cold  air  to 
blow  in  on  top  of  the  coals. 

No  fuel  should  come  above  the  bricks  in  the  fire-box, 
and  never  should  the  fire  be  allowed  to  get  so  hot  as  to 
make  the  top  of  the  stove  red,  as  that  warps  the  iron. 

The  same  principle  of  combustion  is  found  in  a  gas 
stove,  the  air  uniting  at  the  point  of  burning  with  the 
gas  coming  through  the  pipe.  The  flame  of  a  gas  stove 
should  be  blue  with  a  light-blue  center.  If  it  burns  with 
a  yellow  flame,  it  is  not  adjusted  correctly  and  the  gas 
company  should  be  notified.  The  oven  doors  of  a  gas 
stove  should  always  be  left  open  while  it  is  being 
lighted  until  all  the  burners  have  caught,  in  order  to 
prevent  a  pocket  of  unburned  gas  from  collecting  in 
the  oven. 

Stoves  of  all  types  must  be  kept  clean.  They  should 
be  rubbed  often  with  paper,  and  anything  spilt  in  the 
oven  should  be  scraped  up  carefully.  Gas-burners  as 
well  as  the  tops  of  a  gas  stove  can  be  removed  and 
washed  thoroughly  at  the  sink  with  boiling  water  and 
washing-soda.  Blacking  makes  stoves  look  better  and 
preserves  the  iron. 

The  principle  of  a  refrigerator  is  to  preserve  food 
through  low  temperature  obtained  by  the  melting  of 
ice.  In  order  to  melt,  ice  must  absorb 
heat,  and  in  a  refrigerator  it  draws  this 
heat  from  the  other  compartments.  Hence  a  perfect 
refrigerator  should  be  so  built  that  it  cannot  absorb 
heat  from  outside  and  has  perfect  circulation  of  air  in- 


THE  KITCHEN  AS  A  WORKSHOP        13 

side.  In  buying  a  refrigerator,  much  must  be  left  to  the 
honesty  of  the  dealer  so  far  as  the  outside  structure  is 
concerned;  but  the  purchaser  can  see  for  herself  if 
there  is  allowance  for  good  circulation  inside  and  if  it 
can  be  kept  clean  easily.  Every  refrigerator  should  be 
so  built  as  to  have  a  space  between  each  compartment, 
so  that  the  warm  air  rising  from  the  food  may  pass 
over  the  ice  at  the  top  and  the  cold  air  from  the  ice- 
chamber  may  go  down  to  the  compartment  below. 

A  white  lining,  either  tile  or  enamel,  is  attractive 
and  dirt  is  easily  seen;  but  if  it  cracks  or  chips  easily 
it  is  unsatisfactory.  Shelves  should  be  removable,  and 
if  made  of  wire  permit  freer  circulation  of  air  than  if  of 
glass  or  slate.  If  the  floor  of  the  refrigerator  is  flush 
with  the  door,  it  can  be  more  easily  washed  than  if  it 
drops  below,  though  in  this  case  the  door  must  shut 
very  tightly. 

It  is  extremely  important  that  a  refrigerator  should 
be  kept  especially  clean.  Anything  spilled  must  be 
wiped  up  at  once,  and  the  whole  inside  given  a  thor- 
ough washing  with  soda  and  water  at  least  once  a  week. 
Hot  water  should  be  poured  down  the  waste  pipe  and 
a  long  wire  with  brush  end  may  be  used  to  clean  the 
pipe.  If  it  is  connected  directly  with  the  sewer,  it 
should  have  a  trap. 

Do  not  forget  to  wash  the  inside  of  the  doors  when 
washing  the  inside  of  the  refrigerator. 

If  it  is  possible  to  have  a  word  about  the  sink  when 
it  is  put  in,  be  sure  to  have  it  set  up  high  enough  for 
comfort ;  also  to  see  that  it  is  large  enough 
to  hold  two  dishpans  comfortably,  and 
that  it  has  a  good-sized  draining-board  on  each  side  if 
possible.  Porcelain  sinks  require  a  good  deal  of  effort 


14    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

to  keep  them  clean,  especially  if  strong  soap-powders 
have  injured  the  finish;  enamel  on  iron  is  apt  to  chip. 
Soapstone  is  very  satisfactory  and  can  be  kept  in  good 
condition  by  frequent  scrubbing  with  soap  and  a  short- 
bristled  brush. 

Every  housekeeper  has  her  own  ideas  on  the  subject 
of  utensils,  her  favorite  type  of  material  and  her  favor- 

_,     .,  ite  shape  and  style.  Aluminum  is  expen- 

Utensils  .  ,       •        •  1     i        i  ,  .        .*. 

sive  to  begin  with,  but  lasts  a  long  time  if 

it  is  of  the  best  grade  and  gives  very  satisfactory  serv- 
ice. Where  the  water  is  hard,  it  discolors  easily  and  re- 
quires considerable  effort  to  keep  it  bright.  The  heavy 
gray  enamel-ware  also  gives  good  service  and  is  easy  to 
clean  if  not  abused.  As  enamel-ware  may  be  unsafe  if 
the  enamel  has  been  chipped  off,  the  base  metal  not 
being  prepared  to  resist  acids  in  the  food,  it  is  well  to 
buy  a  good  quality  to  begin  with  and  to  take  good  care 
of  it. 

The  kitchen  is  more  than  a  workshop.  It  is  a  labora- 
tory where  food  is  prepared  for  family  consumption. 
Cleanliness  As  such,  absolute  cleanliness  is  of  first  im- 
essential  portance  with  everything  pertaining  to  its 

preparation.  All  food  delivered  to  the  house  should 
come  wrapped  up.  No  town  should  permit  flesh  prod- 
ucts to  be  carried  through  its  streets  uncovered,  or  to 
be  hung  outside  stores  for  display.  Fruit  and  vegeta- 
bles should  be  very  carefully  washed  before  serving,  as 
they  have  been  exposed  to  the  dirt  of  the  street  as  well 
as  to  much  handling.  Dry  groceries  can  be  kept  in 
glass  or  enamel  jars  to  prevent  dust  falling  in  them, 
and  should  never  be  left  in  paper  bags  or  opened  car- 
tons. 

Cooked  food  should  be  carefully  covered  and  cooled 


THE  KITCHEN  AS  A  WORKSHOP        15 

before  putting  into  the  refrigerator.  It  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  dining-room  china  or  glass  and  put 
onto  plates  kept  for  that  purpose.  No  food,  no  matter 
how  small  a  quantity,  should  be  thrown  away. 
Freshly  cooked  breadstuff  s  should  be  cooled  on  an  open 
rack  before  putting  away  in  a  well-aired  and  sunned 
bread-box. 

Plates  should  be  scraped  into  a  drainer  in  the  sink. 
Very  greasy  ones  could  be  wiped  off  with  soft  paper 
which  is  then  burnt.  All  dishes  are  then  _. . 

JJisn.wflSiiiiio' 

piled  on  the  left  side  of  the  sink  ready  for 
washing.  Rinse  the  milk  and  egg  glasses  with  cold  wa- 
ter. Use  two  dishpans,  one  containing  very  hot  soapy 
water,  and  the  other  very  hot  clear  water  for  rinsing. 
Wash  glassware  first,  then  silver,  then  the  cleanest  of 
the  china,  leaving  the  dinner  plates  and  platter  until 
last.  Have  a  wire  or  wooden  drainer  to  the  right  of  the 
rinsing-pan,  and  as  the  dishes  are  rinsed  stand  them  in 
the  drainer.  If  the  water  is  very  hot,  they  will  need 
practically  no  drying.  If  they  are  washed  and  put  in 
the  drainer  in  the  reverse  order  from  which  they  can 
be  stacked  when  dry,  it  saves  handling  them  twice; 
that  is,  if  the  dinner  plates  are  washed  last,  they  are 
dried  first  and  can  be  at  the  bottom  of  the  pile  when 
ready  to  put  away. 

Three  towels  should  be  used  for  wiping  dishes  and 
should  be  kept  for  their  separate  uses:  a  soft  linen 
towel  for  glass  and  silver;  a  heavier  linen  for  china;  and 
a  heavy  crash  one  for  pots  and  pans.  If  towels  are  used 
carefully  and  always  rinsed  out  after  each  dish- washing, 
they  will  last  a  long  time.  They  should  also  be  given  a 
thorough  boiling  at  least  once  a  week. 

No  matter  how  much  care  the  worker  in  the  kitchen 


16    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

takes  with  the  food  and  the  utensils,  it  is  all  of  no  avail 
Personal  if  she  herself  is  not  immaculate  in  her  per- 

cleanliness  son  an(j  her  habits.  The  kitchen  is  no 
place  in  which  to  wear  a  dress  too  old  and  too  soiled 
to  be  worn  any  longer  in  the  parlor ;  but  it  demands 
a  suitable  uniform  of  its  own.  The  dress  worn  here 
should  be  a  cotton  one,  easily  laundered,  and  so  made 
as  to  be  perfectly  comfortable,  with  short  sleeves,  low 
collar,  short  skirt,  and  plenty  of  room.  The  hair  should 
be  kept  very  neat  and  should  be  confined  if  possible  by 
a  net  or  close-fitting  cap. 

It  is  most  essential  that  the  hands  and  finger-nails 
should  be  kept  with  the  utmost  care,  frequently 
washed,  and  always  after  coming  from  the  toilet.  Even 
then  the  hands  should  be  kept  out  of  food  just  as  much 
as  possible.  It  is  not  necessary  to  use  the  hands  in  order 
to  get  good  results,  as  many  old-fashioned  cooks  will 
tell  you.  Cake  and  baking-powder  biscuit  can  both  be 
made  very  satisfactorily  without  putting  the  hands  in 
the  mixture  at  all,  and  if  the  bread-mixer  is  used  for 
making  bread,  that  process  too  may  be  carried  on  with- 
out handling  the  dough.  A  palette  knife  (and  not  the 
finger)  should  be  used  for  scraping  out  the  mixing- 
bowl,  and  never  should  food  be  tasted  from  the 
stirring-spoon.  A  tasting-spoon  may  be  kept  for  the 
purpose  and  not  put  into  the  whole  mass,  but  some 
dipped  out  onto  it  with  the  stirring-spoon. 

This  standard  of  cleanliness  is  easily  achieved  and 
should  be  accepted  as  attainable. 


CHAPTER  III 

THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS 

Before  looking  into  the  composition  of  food,  it  is  well 
to  understand  just  what  is  meant  by  the  term  "food." 
In  order  to  be  a  "food"  a  substance  must  what  is  a 
be  fitted  to  serve  a  definite  function  in  the  "  food  " 
body.  The  body  must  be  fed  in  order  to  live.  This  liv- 
ing process  is  twofold,  as  we  will  see  later.  One  half  is 
the  generating  of  the  power  to  perform  daily  duties  — 
walking,  eating,  breathing  —  and  the  keeping  of  the 
body  warm;  the  other  is  the  constant  adding  to  the 
body  structure  which  is  called  growth  or  repair  of  tis- 
sue. Hence  our  definition  for  "food"  is  any  substance 
which  when  taken  into  the  body  will  either  produce 
heat  and  energy  or  build  tissue. 

Every  substance  can  be  taken  apart  by  a  chemist  in 
his  laboratory  in  order  to  show  of  what  it  is  made.  If 
the  parts  still  maintain  the  characteristic  properties 
of  the  whole,  no  matter  into  how  small  particles  it  may 
be  subdivided,  that  substance  is  called  an  element.  For 
instance,  a  wedding-ring  may  be  broken  up  and  sub- 
divided into  particles  so  small  they  could  only  be  seen 
under  the  microscope,  and  still  each  particle  would 
show  all  the  properties  of  gold.  Gold  is  an  element.  So 
also  are  silver,  lead,  iron,  zinc,  copper,  and  other  sub- 
stances, both  solid  and  gaseous,  to  a  limited  extent, 
which  in  combination  or  singly  make  all  matter  as  we 
see  it  around  us. 


18    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

WATER 

Our  food  substances,  like  other  matter,  are  made  up 
of  certain  definite  chemical  elements.  The  simplest  food 
substance  is  water,  in  which  we  have  a  combination 
of  only  two  elements,  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  twice  as 
much  hydrogen  as  oxygen. 

Water  plays  a  large  and  important  part  in  our  life, 
entering  into  the  structure  of  all  matter,  even  into 
what  appears  to  the  eye  to  be  dry.  Since  water  makes 
up  two  thirds  of  the  weight  of  the  entire  body,  great 
care  should  be  exercised  to  see  that  plenty  is  provided 
with  the  diet.  There  should  be  at  least  six  glasses  a  day 
for  children  and  eight  glasses  a  day  for  adults. 

It  is  also  important  that  the  water  should  be  pure, 
for  serious  diseases  may  be  introduced  into  the  body 
through  a  contaminated  water  supply.  Some  of  these 
are  typhoid  fever,  diphtheria,  and  dysentery.  It  is 
never  safe  to  drink  from  streams  and  brooks  receiving 
the  drainage  of  a  valley;  and  wells  should  be  placed 
with  great  care  so  as  not  to  get  either  the  surface  or  the 
sub-strata  drainage  from  cesspools  and  barnyards. 

STARCHES  AND  SUGARS 

When  we  find  a  third  element,  carbon,  in  combina- 
tion with  hydrogen  and  oxygen,  we  have  a  large  group 
C  boh  dr  °^  ^ooc*  substances.  In  some  of  these  the 
same  relation  exists  between  the  hydrogen 
and  the  oxygen  as  is  found  in  water,  twice  as  much  of 
the  former  as  of  the  latter.  Hence  this  group  of  sub- 
stances is  given  the  descriptive  name  of  carbohydrates. 
They  are  just  what  the  name  implies,  combinations  of 
carbon  with  hydrogen  and  oxygen  in  the  same  propor- 
tion that  occurs  in  water. 


THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS  19 

Foods  of  this  group  are  familiar  to  all  and  are  in  con- 
stant use.  They  yield  energy  to  the  body,  but  do  not 
build  tissue.  Starch  is  one  of  them,  and  is  g  . 
the  same  substance  chemically  whether 
found  in  the  potato  or  in  wheat,  in  cornstarch  or  in 
tapioca,  the  difference  being  merely  a  matter  of  refin- 
ing. Foods  containing  starch  — ■  breadstuffs  and  cere- 
als —  make  up  a  larger  part  of  our  diet  than  any  one 
other  food ;  and  rightly  so,  since  they  are  of  vegetable 
origin  and  are  less  expensive  than  meat.  They  are  also 
less  costly  to  the  nation  as  a  whole ;  because  it  is  better 
economy  to  obtain  our  food  from  the  vegetable  king- 
dom direct  than  to  feed  it  to  animals  and  then  eat  the 
flesh  of  the  animal.  Care,  however,  should  be  exercised 
not  to  have  too  much  starchy  food  in  the  diet.  It 
should  never  make  up  more  than  one  third  of  the 
total  bulk,  and  it  should  be  used  with  a  larger  quan- 
tity of  fruits  and  vegetables  than  many  housekeep- 
ers are  in  the  habit  of  serving.  This  will  be  more 
fully  explained  in  a  later  chapter. 

Other  familiar  carbohydrates  are  the  sugars.  These 
vary  somewhat  one  from  another  chemically,  but  those 
obtained  from  the  cane,  the  beet,  and  the  g 
maple-tree  are  all  the  same.  Others  are 
found  in  fruits  and  help  to  give  this  class  of  foods  their 
value  in  the  diet.  Sugar  should  be  looked  upon  as  a 
valuable  food,  but  should  be  used  in  its  proper  place 
with  intelligence.  It  will  be  discussed  more  fully  in 
chapter  xm. 

There  is  yet  another  substance  which  comes  under 
this  head  of  carbohydrates,  although  it  Woo(ivfiJ3er 
is  not  a  food  proper  in  that  it  does  not 
nourish  the  body.   This  is  the  substance  which  makes 


20    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

up  the  basic  structure  of  all  vegetation  and  is  known  as 
woody  fiber j  or  cellulose.  It  has  its  function  to  play  in 
the  diet  in  the  form  of  bulk,  without  which  the  diet 
becomes  too  concentrated  and  binding.  If  it  is  not 
sufficiently  plentiful  in  the  form  of  fruits  and  vegeta- 
bles, it  must  sometimes  be  introduced  by  bran  muffins 
and  coarse  breadstuffs.  The  tendency  is  for  our  diet  to 
be  too  refined,  and  this  is  the  chief  cause  of  the  great 
American  trouble,  constipation.  For  this  reason,  if  not 
for  any  other,  it  would  be  well  for  all  of  us  to  return  to 
the  coarsely  ground  meals  and  flours  more  in  use  in  the 
days  of  our  grandmothers. 

FATS 

We  have  still  another  group  of  food  substances  con- 
taining the  three  elements  of  carbon,  hydrogen,  and 
oxygen,  though  they  are  not  carbohydrates.  These  are 
the  fats.  In  them  we  find  a  larger  proportion  of  hydro- 
gen than  we  do  of  oxygen,  which  gives  them  the  power 
to  unite  with  oxygen  to  a  greater  extent  than  can  the 
starches  or  sugars.  This  means  that  they  can  burn  with 
greater  heat,  and  are  therefore  the  best  heat-produc- 
ing foods  we  have.  We  have  fats  of  both  animal  and 
vegetable  origin.  Because  of  their  great  value  as  food, 
they  should  be  used  with  care  and  thought.  We  have 
learned  much  from  the  war,  and  perhaps  not  the  least 
of  the  lessons  has  been  the  disastrous  effect  of  a  short- 
age of  fats  upon  the  health  of  a  nation.  It  is  to  be  hoped 
that  we  have  learned  this  lesson  well,  and  that  it  will 
not  be  necessary  in  the  future  to  call  in  the  plumber 
so  often  to  cut  out  the  waste  fat  from  the  kitchen 
drain-pipe.  The  whole  subject  of  fats  is  taken  up  in 
chapter  xu. 


THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS  21 

PROTEIN 

As  we  continue  the  analytical  study  of  our  food  sub- 
stances, we  next  come  to  a  group  of  foods  of  far  greater 
complexity  of  make-up  than  any  we  have  met  with  so 
far.  It  is  the  group  which  comprises  primarily  the  flesh 
products  —  meat  of  all  kinds,  fish,  eggs,  milk,  and 
cheese.  Into  this  group  we  can  also  put  two  classes  of 
food  from  the  vegetable  kingdom,  the  pulses  or  legumes 
(beans  and  peas)  and  the  nuts.  It  is  found  by  analysis 
that  all  of  these  substances  contain  an  element  entirely 
lacking  in  carbohydrates  and  fats.  This  is  nitrogen. 
Without  nitrogen  there  can  be  no  life,  for  it  enters  into 
the  structure  of  all  living  tissue.  Although  it  is  around 
us  abundantly  in  the  air  we  breathe,  it  is  impossible  for 
us  to  utilize  this  nitrogen  for  our  body  structure  and 
we  must  obtain  all  that  we  need  from  our  food  alone. 
Therefore  this  group  of  foods  is  especially  important  in 
the  diet.  Because  of  the  greater  variety  of  flavor,  the 
group  has  grown  to  be  the  most  popular  of  them  all 
and  is  used  far  more  plentifully  than  is  wise  or  neces- 
sary. The  family  that  "must  have"  meat  three  times  a 
day  is  putting  too  heavy  a  burden  on  the  kidneys  as 
well  as  on  the  pocket-book. 

This  food  substance  containing  nitrogen  is  known  as 
protein  and  is  extremely  complex  in  its  chemical  struc- 
ture. The  nitrogen  is  in  close  combination  with  the  ele- 
ments we  have  already  discussed,  hydrogen,  oxygen, 
and  carbon,  and  also  with  several  others  —  sulphur, 
phosphorus,  and  iron.  There  are  many  kinds  of  protein 
substances  that  vary  from  one  another  in  structure  and 
behavior,  but  when  used  as  food  they  nearly  all  have 
in  common  the  power  to  build  up  body  tissue.  A  surplus 


22     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

of  protein  material  in  the  diet  over  and  above  what  is 
needed  for  actual  body  structure,  which  in  an  adult  is 
only  enough  to  repair  waste  tissue,  is  split  up  in  the 
body  and  partly  burned  for  heat  and  energy,  leaving 
the  nitrogenous  waste  products  to  be  excreted  by  the 
kidneys.  Thus  protein  foods  can  perform  both  func- 
tions of  our  definition  for  food.  As  it  is  the  most  expen- 
sive class  of  foods  we  have,  however,  it  should  be  kept 
exclusively  for  tissue  building,  and  food  from  the  vege- 
table kingdom  should  be  relied  on  for  all  the  energy 
needed  by  the  body. 

MINERAL  MATTER 

If  food  material  is  actually  burned  in  a  stove,  ashes 
would  be  found  just  as  from  coal  or  wood;  that  is,  the 
food  would  not  be  completely  consumed.  The  ash  is 
made  up  of  mineral  matter  which  does  not  readily 
unite  with  oxygen  at  ordinary  temperatures.  This 
mineral  matter  in  our  food  would  be  largely  iron, 
calcium,  sodium,  potassium,  and  magnesium,  while 
chlorine  would  be  driven  off  as  a  gas.  All  food  sub- 
stances contain  more  or  less  of  these  minerals  even 
though  it  may  be  only  a  trace ;  but  because  of  them  one 
group  of  foods  in  particular  is  especially  valuable  in 
the  diet.  This  group  is  comprised  of  all  fruits  and  vege- 
tables. Besides  being  in  themselves  very  watery  and  also 
being  useful  for  their  woody  fiber,  they  are  our  chief 
source  of  mineral  matter,  unless  we  except  milk,  from 
which  we  obtain  most  of  the  much-needed  calcium. 

An  average  adult  human  body  if  burned  would 
leave  about  seven  pounds  of  ashes.  This  mineral  mat- 
ter, which  makes  up  the  bony  structure  of  the  body, 
enters  into  the  nails,  hair,  and  teeth,  and  also  plays  an 


THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS  23 

important  part  in  the  functioning  of  the  different  or- 
gans and  body  fluids,  must  be  provided  in  the  food 
particularly  during  the  period  of  growth.  This  is  an- 
other reason  for  the  importance  of  having  plenty  of 
fruits  and  vegetables  and  also  milk  in  the  diet,  particu- 
larly in  that  of  children. 

Iron  is  needed  to  insure  the  proper  functioning  of 
the  blood.  Without  it  the  blood  is  unable  to  absorb  the 
oxygen  taken  into  the  lungs  and  to  carry  it  to  cells 
where  it  is  needed  to  burn  up  the  food.  A  patient  who  is 
lacking  in  iron  is  said  to  be  anaemic.  It  is  far  better  to 
keep  up  the  necessary  amount  of  iron  by  such  foods  as 
spinach  and  other  greens,  molasses,  oatmeal,  and  eggs, 
than  it  is  to  give  the  patient  iron  tonics.  In  the  one  case 
the  iron  is  in  such  combination  with  organic  matter 
that  it  can  be  easily  assimilated  by  the  body,  whereas 
in  the  tonic  the  iron  is  in  inorganic  combination  and 
cannot  be  so  well  used. 

Calcium  is  needed  for  bone  structure  and  is  to  be  ob- 
tained from  milk  more  than  from  any  other  food.  The 
necessary  daily  requirement  for  an  adult  is  found  in 
less  than  1  1/4  pints  of  milk  or  in  2  1/2  ounces  of 
cheese,  whereas  it  would  take  more  than  7  pounds  of 
white  flour  to  obtain  it,  or  21  pounds  of  beef,  or  2  1/3 
pounds  of  turnips,  or  2  1/2  pounds  of  carrots.  It  is  also 
needed  by  the  body  for  certain  fluids  in  combination 
with  both  sodium  and  magnesium. 

Sodium  is  an  essential  constituent  of  the  blood  and 
other  body  fluids.  It  helps  in  the  making  of  the  hydro- 
chloric acid  of  the  stomach.  We  use  common  salt, 
which  is  sodium  chloride,  so  plentifully  on  our  food  that 
there  is  no  doubt  about  there  being  a  sufficient  amount 
in  our  diet. 


24    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Potassium,  another  of  the  necessary  minerals  to  assist 
in  the  proper  functioning  of  the  body,  is  found  in  green 
vegetables  and  fruits  together  with  magnesium.  If  other 
minerals  are  in  sufficient  amounts,  these  will  be  also. 

It  has  been  found  through  experimentation  with 

animals  that  a  diet  made  up  of  purified  protein,  car- 

« ,r.A     •      ,.    bohydrates,   and   fats,   with  minerals  in 
"  Vitamines "  J  -       .  '  . 

proper  proportion,  does  not  maintain  life 
and  growth.  By  introducing  one  type  of  raw  food  after 
another  into  this  chemically  pure  diet,  it  was  found 
that  in  order  to  have  normal  growth,  the  animal  must 
have  two  types  of  substances  hitherto  unknown.  These 
substances  have  not  as  yet  been  isolated  and  so  have 
not  been  given  definite  chemical  names.  They  are  pop- 
ularly known  as  "vitamines,"  but  this  is  not  a  scientific 
term.  It  is  known,  however,  that  one  type  of  these 
food  accessory  substances  is  found  in  a  few  fats,  such 
as  butter  fat,  egg  yolk,  and  cod-liver  oil,  in  the  organs 
of  animals  such  as  liver,  kidney,  and  sweetbreads,  and 
in  the  leaves  of  plants.  It  is  known  as  ' 'fat-soluble  A' ' 
for  lack  of  a  better  name.  The  other  is  more  abundant 
and  is  present  in  all  fruit,  vegetables,  and  cereal  grains, 
though  it  is  lost  in  the  highly  milled  products  made 
from  the  grain  where  the  endosperm  alone  is  used. 
It  is  called  "  water-soluble  B."  Here  again  we  have 
still  another  reason  for  the  plentiful  use  of  fruits  and 
vegetables,  and  also  for  the  use  of  the  coarser  cereal 
products. 

It  is  perhaps  difficult  for  the  novice  to  distinguish 
between  all  these  different  types  of  food  substances, 
but  it  is  certainly  easy  to  remember  that  the  safest 
diet  is  a  varied  one.  We  will  go  into  this  more  fully 
when  we  discuss  the  planning  of  meals. 


THE  COMPOSITION  OF  FOODS 


25 


Hydrogen)  ) 

Oxygen     )  r 

Carbon        ) 

Nitrogen 

Sulphur 

Phosphorus 

Iron 

Calcium 

Sodium 

Magnesium 

Potassium 

Chlorine 


.  Water 

Carbohydrates:  starch,  sugar,  cellulose 
Fats 

Protein:  meat,  fish,  milk,  eggs,  cheese; 
.     pulses,  nuts 


Mineral  matter  or  ash:  fruits  and  vege- 
tables 


CHAPTER  IV 

MILK  AND  EGGS 

Food  substances  fall  into  five  distinct  groups  accord- 
ing to  their  chemical  composition: 

1.  Those  valuable  for  their  mineral  salts. 

2.  Those    containing    considerable    protein:    milk, 
eggs,  meat,  etc. 

3.  Those   characterized   by  their   starch    content: 
flours,  cereals,  breadstuffs,  etc. 

4.  Those  with  a  preponderance  of  sugar. 

5.  Those  largely  fat. 

The  plan  is  to  study  the  foods  of  each  group  sepa- 
rately, beginning  with  the  protein  group  because  of  its 
importance  in  the  diet  and  the  simplicity  which  gov- 
erns its  cooking  processes. 

Of  the  protein  group  milk  and  eggs  are  by  far  the 
most  important  members.  It  is  only  necessary  to  think 
of  the  purpose  for  which  nature  intended  them,  to 
realize  how  great  their  value  is.  In  both  cases  they  pro- 
vide the  entire  food  of  the  young  animal  until  such 
time  as  that  animal  is  able  to  find  food  for  itself;  that 
is,  the  milk  and  the  egg  not  only  are  sufficient  to  keep 
the  young  animal  alive  and  warm,  but  are  also  able  to 
provide  the  material  for  building  up  the  body.  In  the 
case  of  the  egg,  the  chicken  is  fully  developed  inside 
the  shell  and  gets  no  further  sustenance  than  what  was 
originally  there  until  it  breaks  out  of  its  shell. 


MILK  AND  EGGS  27 

MILK 

The  maintenance  of  a  dairy  herd  is  considered  to  be 
one  of  the  industries  essential  to  the  life  of  a  nation. 
Dairy  herds  are  the  greatest  single  factor  An  essential 
in  public  health  and  should  be  carefully  fodustry 
conserved.  Because  the  public  as  a  whole  does  not 
realize  the  full  significance  of  this  fact,  the  herds  of 
dairy  cattle  are  being  rapidly  diminished  in  this  coun- 
try. Not  only  is  milk  a  valuable  source  of  food,  so 
much  so  in  fact  that  if  all  the  milk  now  produced  in 
this  country  were  utilized  to  the  fullest  extent  it  would 
supply  one  fourth  of  all  the  food  needed  by  the  people 
in  this  country,  but  also  a  better  return  for  a  given 
amount  of  fodder  can  be  obtained  in  the  form  of  milk 
than  in  the  form  of  meat.  Further,  it  should  not  be  for- 
gotten, when  attempts  are  being  made  to  increase 
agricultural  production,  that  a  dairy  herd  is  also  a  val- 
uable source  of  fertilizer. 

Milk  is  called  a  " protective  food"  by  Dr.  McCul- 
lom,  since  it  contains  all  the  essential  elements  for 
growth.  Its  average  composition  is  87  per  Make-up  of 
cent  water,  4  per  cent  fat,  5  per  cent  sugar,  milk 
3.3  per  cent  protein,  and  0.7  per  cent  ash.  It  varies, 
however,  as  to  its  fat  content,  particularly  according  to 
the  type  of  cow,  a  Jersey  cow  giving  the  richest  milk 
with  often  as  high  as  5  per  cent  fat,  while  the  milk 
from  a  Holstein  is  the  poorest.  Most  States  have  fixed 
the  percentage  of  fat  below  which  the  milk  must  not 
fall. 

The  composition  of  milk  is  easily  seen  in  the  home 
by  noting  the  changes  it  undergoes.  When  left  to  stand 
the  fat  or  cream  rises  to  the  top.  When  it  grows  sour  it 


28     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

separates  into  a  solid,  the  curd,  and  a  yellowish  liquid, 
the  whey.  If  the  curd  should  be  heated,  it  would  grow 
tough  and  leathery,  showing  the  same  characteristics 
that  the  white  of  an  egg  does  when  it  is  heated.  Both 
of  these  are  protein  material.  The  sugar  and  mineral 
salts  are  in  solution  in  the  whey  and  cannot  be  identi- 
fied on  sight,  but  together  with  a  soluble  protein  give 
to  whey,  when  it  is  separated  from  sweet  milk,  its 
value  as  a  food  for  some  invalids.  This  sugar  of  milk 
is  not  as  sweet  as  that  obtained  from  cane  and  should 
always  be  used  in  modifying  cow's  milk  for  infants. 
It  does  not  ferment  as  readily  and  tends  to  correct 
putrefaction  in  the  intestines. 

Of  the  ash  or  mineral  salts  present  in  milk,  calcium  is 
especially  important.  Milk  is  the  chief  source  of  cal- 
cium in  all  our  foods  and  is  especially  needed  for  teeth 
and  bone  structure.  Since  2  per  cent  of  the  total  body 
weight  is  calcium,  67  grams  of  calcium  should  be  sup- 
plied each  day  in  the  ordinary  diet.  This  is  found  in 
one  and  one  fourth  pints  of  milk,  so  that,  according  to 
Dr.  Sherman,  "  every  family  should  be  using  at  the 
rate  of  at  least  one  third  of  a  quart  of  milk  per  man 
per  day  to  provide  for  the  calcium  requirements  of 
that  family."  The  iron  content  of  milk  is  low,  but  that 
can  be  made  up  for  by  the  use  of  eggs  and  green  vege- 
tables. 

One  of  the  points  in  the  value  of  milk  as  a  food  does 
not  show  in  its  composition.  This  is  the  fact  that  it 
has  been  proven  to  contain  both  of  those  food  acces- 
sory substances  necessary  for  growth  known  as  "  vita- 
mines."  Hence  a  diet  that  is  lacking  in  both  milk  and 
butter,  where  the  fat- soluble  A  is  found,  would  be  near 
the  danger  line  for  lack  of  those  substances.  Dr.  Mc- 


MILK  AND  EGGS  29 

Cullom  asserts  that  "the  greatest  factor  of  safety  in 
the  human  diet  is  the  regular  use  of  milk."  Each  adult 
should  use  one  pint  a  day,  and  each  child  from  one  and 
a  half  pints  to  one  quart  a  day. 

We  hear  frequently,  "  It  is  all  very  well  to  talk  about 
the  value  of  milk,  but  we  cannot  afford  to  use  it  at  the 
present  price."  When  the  price  of  milk  Value  of  milk 
went  up  because  of  perfectly  obvious  rea-  as  a  foo(i 
sons,  such  as  the  high  price  of  fodder  and  the  scarcity 
of  labor,  the  total  amount  of  money  spent  for  milk  was 
actually  less  in  one  city  than  when  the  milk  was 
cheaper.  And  yet  milk  is  a  cheap  food  even  at  its  pres- 
ent price,  compared  with  the  cost  of  other  foods  and 
the  value  received  from  them.  In  cutting  down  the 
cost  of  the  diet,  the  last  place  to  cut  is  milk  and  the 
first  place  to  cut  is  meat.  No  family  of  five  —  that  is  of 
two  adults  and  three  children  —  should  buy  meat  until 
it  is  using  three  quarts  of  milk  a  day.  This  is  because 
milk  is  a  food  and  should  not  be  looked  upon  just  as  a 
beverage  to  be  classed  with  tea  and  coffee  merely  be- 
cause it  happens  to  be  in  liquid  form.  One  quart  of 
milk  supplies  practically  as  much  protein  and  energy 
as  nine  eggs  or  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef 
of  average  composition,  and  can  be  bought  for  less 
money.  When  milk  is  eighteen  cents  a  quart,  we  get  as 
much  food  value  for  our  eighteen  cents  spent  for  one 
quart  of  milk  as  we  should  get  for: 

30  cents  put  into  f  pound  of  meat  at  40  cents  a  pound ; 
45  00  ;  or 

45      "      "      "    9  eggs  at  60  cents  a  dozen. 

It  can  be  used  as  an  economical  substitute  for  meat  or 
eggs,  though  it  is  not  as  cheap  a  food  as  flour  or  other 
cereal  products. 


30    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

This  does  not  mean  that  milk  should  be  used  by  the 
glass  necessarily,  but  it  can  and  should  be  used  in  cook- 
How  to  ing.  The  top  of  the  bottle  may  be  reserved 
use  milk  for  use  on  cereal  for  breakfast  or  for  des- 
sert at  dinner,  and  the  rest  of  the  bottle  used  in  cream 
soups,  as  chowders,  vegetable  soups,  soups  made  from 
dried  peas  and  beans,  etc.  It  can  also  be  used  for  cream 
sauces  to  make  a  little  fish  or  meat  go  farther.  These 
can  be  served  in  a  variety  of  ways,  on  toast,  in  patty 
shells,  in  individual  ramekins,  or  made  up  into  souffles 
or  scalloped  dishes.  Then,  too,  it  may  come  hard  for 
some  people  to  get  used  to  the  idea  of  a  dessert  being 
the  meat  dish  of  a  meal,  but  such  may  be  the  case  if 
the  dessert  is  largely  made  of  milk  as  in  rice,  bread,  or 
cornstarch  pudding,  or  in  custard,  or  even  ice-cream. 
When  a  milk  dish  is  served  either  as  a  soup  or  a  des- 
sert, the  meat  may  be  omitted  altogether,  and  the  rest 
of  the  meal  made  up  of  breadstuffs,  plenty  of  vegeta- 
bles, or  salad. 

Milk  is  just  as  good  a  food  for  microscopic  animals 

as  it  is  for  larger  ones,  and  as  these  multiply  rapidly  in 

,    .„      a  warm  medium  and  are  present  in  large 
Care  of  milk  ,  .       .       ,  ,      *       e     „  ,  .    ? 

quantities  in  dust  and  dirt  of  all  kinds, 

cleanliness  and  cold  are  imperative  in  order  to  have 
good  milk.  Milk  may  be  easily  a  disease-carrier,  bring- 
ing contamination  from  the  cow,  the  barn,  the  utensils 
used,  or  the  men  handling  it.  The  greater  precautions 
that  are  used  to  keep  it  clean,  the  higher  must  the  price 
be,  of  necessity;  because  these  involve  a  greater  ex- 
penditure for  equipment  and  for  labor.  It  is  safe  to  say, 
as  a  rule,  that  the  more  we  pay  for  our  milk  the  cleaner 
it  is. 
There  are  several  grades  on  the  market  varying  in 


MILK  AND  EGGS  31 

different  localities  in  price  and  in  name.  A  " certified' ' 
milk  is  a  raw  milk  produced  in  a  single  Grades  of 
dairy  that  has  been  especially  inspected  milk  on  the 
and  approved  by  a  board  of  examiners.  It  mar  et 
is  certified  to  contain  not  more  than  a  fixed  number  of 
bacteria  to  a  cubic  inch.  Milk  of  this  type  is  the  safest 
to  use  for  infants  and  young  children. 

"Grade  A"  milk  is  a  good  household  milk  which  has 
usually  been  pasteurized.  Some  dealers  make  the  dis- 
tinction between  Grade  A  and  Grade  B  by  having  the 
former  come  from  a  comparatively  small  group  of 
near-by  farms,  while  the  latter  is  an  accumulation 
from  many  farms  often  at  quite  a  distance.  Milk  that 
has  been  pasteurized  has  been  heated  to  1450  F.  and 
kept  there  for  twenty  minutes,  then  cooled  rapidly. 
This  is  sometimes  done  with  the  milk  in  bulk,  then 
afterwards  it  is  bottled;  but  it  is  better  to  have  the 
milk  bottled  first  and  then  heated.  This  process  tends 
to  kill  the  most  harmful  of  the  disease  bacteria  with- 
out changing  the  characteristics  of  the  milk.  It  must 
be  thoroughly  understood,  however,  that  when  milk  has 
been  so  treated,  it  is  not  free  from  the  possibility  of 
further  contamination.  It  is  still  a  good  culture  for 
whatever  micro-organisms  may  find  their  way  into  it. 

The  process  of  pasteurization  should  not  be  con- 
founded with  that  of  sterilization.  This  latter  is  heating 
the  milk  to  the  boiling  point  three  successive  times,  or 
(holding  it  at  boiling  point  for  thirty  minutes.  This  in- 
sures the  killing  of  all  bacteria  present  in  the  milk,  and 
should  always  be  done  if  the  milk  is  known  to  be,  or 
even  thought  to  be,  contaminated.  It  is  also  wise  to 
sterilize  all  milk  before  giving  it  to  a  child  who  runs  up 
a  temperature  which  cannot  be  accounted  for  in  any 
other  way. 


32     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

After  a  reliable  dealer  has  been  chosen  and  a  suita- 
ble grade  of  milk  purchased,  care  should  be  taken  in 
the  home  that  the  milk  does  not  become  contami- 
nated there.  All  milk  bottles  should  be  washed  before 
opening,  especially  around  the  top  even  under  the  cap, 
and  should  be  placed  in  the  coldest  part  of  the  refriger- 
ator. No  milk  should  be  allowed  to  stand  in  an  open 
pitcher  or  dish  in  the  room  where  flies  and  dust  may 
get  at  it.  Only  what  is  needed  at  the  time  should  be 
taken  from  the  bottle ;  if  any  is  left  over,  it  should  not 
be  poured  back  into  the  bottle  for  fear  of  contaminat- 
ing the  rest.  If  the  paper  cap  for  the  bottle  has  been 
punctured  or  thrown  away,  a  tumbler  may  be  inverted 
over  the  top  of  the  bottle. 

All  bottles  and  other  utensils  used  for  milk  must 
be  kept  clean.  They  should  first  be  rinsed  out  in 
cold  water  and  then  washed  with  soap  and  scalding 
water. 

Special  notice  should  be  taken  of  the  value  of 
skimmed  milk.  It  contains  all  of  the  food  properties  of 
Value  of  whole  milk  except  the  fat,  and  so  is  a  very 

skimmed  milk  cheap  substitute  for  meat.  It  can  be  used 
in  cooking  where  the  loss  of  fat  can  be  made  up  by 
cheaper  fats,  or  it  can  be  made  into  cottage  cheese  and 
used  in  various  ways.  If  skimmed  milk  is  bought  as 
such,  it  should  be  used  only  in  cooking,  or  else  it  should 
be  thoroughly  sterilized,  as  it  is  apt  to  be  more  care- 
lessly handled  than  whole  milk. 

EGGS 

Eggs  are  not  as  economical  a  food  as  milk,  and  when 
they  soar  in  price  to  ninety  cents  and  a  dollar  a  dozen, 
they  should  be  kept  for  children  and  invalids  by  fami- 


MILK  AND  EGGS  33 

lies  who  wish  to  keep  the  cost  of  food  down.  They  are 
valuable  as  being  a  light,  easily  digested,  nitrogenous 
food,  capable  of  being  used  either  raw  or  in  many 
varied  combinations. 

It  should  be  remembered  in  cooking  eggs,  no  matter 
what  the  process  may  be,  that  the  temperature  should 
be  kept  low.  Protein  material  when  heated  How  to 
to  the  boiling  point  of  water  becomes  cook  e^B 
tough  and  leathery,  while  it  solidifies  into  a  jellylike 
mass  at  1750  F.  In  order,  then,  to  cook  an  egg  without 
having  it  become  tough,  it  should  be  kept  below  the 
boiling  point  of  water.  When  the  egg  is  in  the  shell  this 
is  done  by  dropping  it  into  boiling  water  and  allowing 
it  to  stand  away  from  the  fire  the  length  of  time  de- 
sired according  to  the  various  tastes  of  the  family,  the 
size  of  the  pan  used,  and  the  quantity  of  water  —  four 
minutes  for  a  very  soft  egg,  five  or  six  minutes  for  a 
harder  one.  They  should  never  be  boiled.  The  same  is 
true  of  a  poached  egg.  In  order  to  obtain  a  "  hard- 
boiled"  egg,  the  egg  may  be  left  in  warm  water  twenty 
minutes.  All  custards  also  and  even  scrambled  eggs 
are  better  when  cooked  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler. 

Eggs  should  be  kept  at  a  low  temperature,  but  not 

below  freezing  point.  As  they  readily  absorb  odors  and 

flavors  from  surrounding  substances,  it  is  „ 

11  t  r  1  1  Care  of  eggs 

well  to  remove  them  from  the  paper  box 

in  which  they  usually  are  shipped  and  place  them  in  a 
clean  china  bowl.  In  order  to  preserve  them  for  some 
months,  they  may  be  placed  in  large  crocks  and  en- 
tirely submersed  in  a  mixture  of  boiled,  cooled  water 
and  water  glass  (sodium  silicate),  one  part  of  the  water 
glass  to  nine  parts  of  water.  This  merely  coats  the  sur- 
face of  the  egg,  thereby  preventing  the  evaporation  of 


34    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

the  air  from  the  inside  and  the  entrance  of  germs 
through  the  pores  of  the  shell  from  the  outside. 


MILK  AND  EGG  RECIPES 
CREAM  SOUPS 

1/4  cup  oleomargarine  or  1  quart  liquid  (1  pint  milk 

other  fat  and  1  pint  liquid  in  which 

1/4  cup  flour  vegetables  have  been  cooked) 

2  teaspoons  salt 
1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

Melt  the  fat  and  stir  in  the  flour.  When  these  are  well 
mixed,  add  the  liquid  and  heat  until  it  boils,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  seasonings.  To  this  sauce  may  be  added  1/2 
cup  to  1  quart  vegetable  stock  and  pulp,  according  to  the 
strength  or  flavor  of  the  vegetables.  Beans,  cabbage,  carrots, 
corn,  onions,  peas,  potatoes,  squash,  or  turnips  may  be 
used,  mashed  through  a  strainer. 

To  make  peanut  soup,  add  1/2  cup  peanut  butter  to  the 
thickened  milk,  or  to  make  cheese  soup,  add  1/4  cup  cheese 
cut  in  pieces. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

I  can  corn  4  cups  skimmed  milk 

4  cups  potatoes,  sliced  8  squares  toast 

1/4  pound  fat  salt  pork  Salt  and  pepper 
1  sliced  onion 

Cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out,  add  onion  and  cook 
five  minutes,  stirring  often  that  onion  may  not  burn.  Par- 
boil potatoes  five  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover,  add 
potatoes  and  water  to  fat,  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft,  add 
corn  and  milk,  then  heat  to  boiling  point.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  add  the  toast  soaked  in  enough  cold  milk  to 
moisten. 


MILK  AND  EGGS  35 

CREAM  OF  COTTAGE  CHEESE  SOUP 

I  cup  milk  1/3  teaspoon  salt 

1/2  tablespoon  butter  Dash  of  pepper 

1/2  tablespoon  thickening        1/4  cup  cottage  cheese 

Use  the  above  ingredients  (except  the  cheese)  to  make  a 
thin  white  sauce.  Cook  thoroughly  and  cool  slightly  before 
adding  the  cheese.  Neutralize  acid  of  cheese  with  soda  if 
cheese  is  sour,  allowing  1/4  to  1/2  teaspoon  of  soda  to  1  cup 
of  cheese.  Dissolve  soda  in  a  little  milk  and  blend  with 
cheese.  Then  stir  the  warm  sauce  gradually  into  the  cheese 
until  well  blended.  Reheat  carefully,  using  as  seasoning  a 
slice  of  onion,  a  small  slice  of  the  yellow  of  the  lemon  rind, 
and  a  blade  of  mace  or  a  little  nutmeg.  Avoid  boiling  the 
sauce  after  the  cheese  is  added. 

POTAGE  A  LA  REINE 

{Queen  Victoria's  favorite  soup) 

I  quart  liquor  in  which  one  chicken  has  been  cooked 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  celery  salt,  and  perhaps  onion 
3  hard-boiled  yolks  of  egg,  mashed 
1/3  cup  dry  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  1/2  cup  cold  milk 
White  chicken  meat,  chopped  fine 

Mix  last  three  ingredients,  add  slowly  to  them  1  pint  hot 
milk  or  cream,  then  add  all  to  the  hot  stock.  Boil  5  minutes, 
taste  for  seasoning  and  thickness.  It  should  be  like  a  puree. 

,  /    FARINA  CREAM  SOUP 

3  pints  milk,  or  2  pints  milk 
I  pint  water,  or  2  pints  water 

1  cup  farina 

2  eggs 

2  teaspoons  salt 
1/2  cup  grated  cheese 


36    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly  and  add  a  little  of  the  milk.  Put  the 
rest  of  the  milk  and  the  water  into  a  saucepan,  and  bring  it 
to  a  boil.  Add  the  salt  and  farina.  Cook  5  minutes  and  add 
the  eggs.  Cook  a  little,  and  add  the  cheese. 

Wheat  cream  soup  is  made  in  the  same  way,  using  wheat 
instead  of  farina. 

Other  dishes  containing  a  large  amount  of  milk: 

Creamed  chicken,  or  fish 

Creamed  vegetables 

Dishes  served  with  a  white  sauce 

Scalloped  dishes 

Bread  and  rice  puddings 

Cornstarch  puddings 

Tapioca  cream 

Custards 

SOFT  OR  BOILED  CUSTARD 

2/3  cup  milk 

1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar 
1/4  teaspoon  salt 
Vanilla 

Heat  the  milk  in  the  top  of  the  double  boiler.  Beat  the 
egg  until  smooth  but  not  foamy.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to 
the  egg.  Pour  the  hot  milk  onto  the  egg  and  return  to  the 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly.  It  is  cooked  enough  when 
it  coats  the  spoon,  and  when  the  foam  disappears.  Strain 
and  flavor. 

BAKED  CUSTARD 

2/3  cup  milk 

1  egg 

1  tablespoon  sugar 
1/4  teaspoon  salt 

Vanilla  or  caramel 


MILK  AND  EGGS  37 

Beat  the  egg  slightly.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the  eggt 
then  the  milk.  Pour  into  a  buttered  cup  and  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven.  Bake  about  20  minutes  or 
until  it  does  not  cling  to  a  knife. 

POACHED  EGG 

Boil  water  in  a  greased  frying-pan.  Add  salt,  1  teaspoon 
to  1  quart  of  water.  Draw  to  cooler  part  of  the  stove  and 
carefully  slip  in  the  egg,  which  has  been  broken  in  a  saucer. 
Cover  and  cook  until  white  is  firm,  5  or  6  minutes.  Take 
up  carefully  with  skimmer,  season  and  serve  on  toasted 
bread. 

CREAMY  EGG 

1  egg  1/2  tablespoon  butter 

I  /4  cup  warm  milk  Pepper 

1/4  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  slightly  and  add  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  over  gently  boiling  water.  As  it 
thickens  stir  it  slowly  from  the  side  and  bottom,  that  it  may 
cook  evenly.  Cook  it  until  it  is  of  a  soft,  creamy  texture, 
remove  from  fire  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  TOMATO 

Season  I  pint  of  tomato  with  onion,  celery,  or  parsley  and 
sweet  herbs.  Cook  and  strain.  Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in 
blazer,  add  tomato,  when  it  is  hot  add  6  eggs  slightly  beaten, 
1/2  teaspoon  salt,  and  1/16  teaspoon  pepper.  Stir  until 
contents  are  creamy.  Serve  with  brown  bread  toasted. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  PEAS 
SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  ASPARAGUS 

Similar  to  Eggs  with  Tomato 


38     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS  WITH  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

3  eggs  Salt  Pepper 

2  tablespoons  cottage  cheese 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper, 
turn  into  hot,  well-greased  saucepan  and  scramble  very 
quickly.  When  firm,  stir  into  them  as  quickly  as  possible 
the  cottage  cheese.  Serve  as  soon  as  thoroughly  mixed. 

This  dish  is  improved  if  the  cheese  has  previously  been 
mixed  with  pimento  or  parsley. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  OMELET 

2  eggs  I  tablespoon  chopped  pimento 
1/4  teaspoon  salt                    2  tablespoons  milk 

3  rounded  tablespoons   1/8  teaspoon  soda 

cottage  cheese 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  the  eggs  separately.  Add  to 
the  yolks  the  salt,  the  milk,  and  the  cheese  which  have  been 
blended  with  the  pimento,  finally  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  pour  into  a  hot  frying-pan  in  which  has  been  melted 
1/2  tablespoon  fat.  Cook  the  omelet  slowly  until  the  egg 
has  set,  place  in  the. oven  a  few  minutes  to  finish  cooking  and 
fold  over  in  the  center.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Other  season- 
ing may  be  used,  such  as  chopped  parsley,  green  pepper,  or 
minced  ham. 

SCALLOPED  EGGS  WITH  COTTAGE  CHEESE 

6  hard-boiled  eggs  I  cup  white  sauce   ■>; 

1/2  cup  cottage  cheese         I  sweet  red  pepper  cut  in  strips 

Cut  the  eggs  into  quarters  and  place  about  one  fourth  of 
the  amount  in  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Cover  this  layer  with 
sauce  into  which  the  cottage  cheese  has  been  folded  and 
sprinkle  over  it  a  layer  of  sliced  green  or  red  sweet  pepper. 
Repeat  until  the  dish  is  full.  Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  on  top, 
dot  with  butter  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 


MILK  AND  EGGS  39 

LIGHT  OMELET 

2  eggs '  I  saltspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  water  or  milk     1/3  saltspoon  pepper 

Beat  the  yolks,  add  liquid,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cut  and  fold 
the  beaten  whites  into  the  yolks.  Heat  the  pan  very  hot; 
butter  the  pan  and  add  the  mixture.  Cook  until  brown,  and 
the  whole  center  is  dry.  Place  in  oven  to  set.  Run  a  knife 
around  the  edge  of  the  pan  and  fold  over  to  the  right. 

Add  for  variety :  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  or  a  tea- 
spoon fine  grated  onion,  or  two  or  three  tablespoons  grated 
corn  to  the  yolks  before  cooking. 

Or  spread  on  the  omelet  before  folding,  thin  slices  of  ham, 
or  three  tablespoons  chopped  ham,  veal,  or  chicken ;  stewed 
tomatoes,  or  raw  tomatoes  sliced;  chopped  mushrooms, 
shrimps,  oysters  which  have  been  parboiled  and  drained, 
cooked  clams,  chopped ;  or  grated  cheese. 

OMELET  SOUFFLE 

Whites  of  3  eggs  Juice  of  1/4  lemon 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  I  1/2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff  froth.  Beat  the  yolks.  Add 
them  to  the  whites,  then  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Fold  in 
carefully,  and  heap  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  or  into  paper 
cases.  Dredge  with  powdered  sugar.  Bake  until  a  golden 
brown. 

CREAMED  OMELET 

3  eggs  I  saltspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  of  cream  Pepper  if  desired 

Beat  the  eggs  in  a  bowl  until  very  foamy,  without  sepa- 
rating the  yolks  from  the  whites ;  add  the  cream  and  season- 
ing and  beat  again.  Place  the  bowl  containing  the  mixture 
over  hot  water  and  stir  constantly  until  the  mixture  begins 
to  set.  Turn  the  mixture  into  a  very  hot  frying-pan,  in 


40    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

which  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  has  been  melted.  When  the 
under  surface  is  brown,  fold  the  omelet,  turn  it  out  on  a  hot 
plate,  and  serve  immediately. 

FRENCH  OMELET 

Beat  only  a  little  the  whites  and  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Add 
I  tablespoon  of  water  or  milk,  1/8  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a 
dash  of  pepper.  Turn  this  into  a  buttered  frying-pan.  Keep 
the  mixture  disturbed  by  lifting  the  edge  with  a  knife  or 
fork.  When  the  omelet  is  set,  fold  and  serve. 

A  HEARTY  OMELET 

I  pint  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

1/4  cup  cornmeal  6  slices  of  bacon  , 

3  eg§s 

Scald  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Pour  it  onto  the  corn- 
meal  and  put  back  on  the  fire.  Cook  15  to  20  minutes,  stir- 
ring frequently  at  first.  Beat  the  eggs  separately;  pour  the 
meal  mixture  into  the  beaten  yolks,  add  salt,  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites.  Have  a  large  frying-pan  in  which  bacon 
has  been  cooked;  remove  bacon  and  pour  off  most  of  the 
fat;  pour  the  omelet  mixture  into  it.  Bake  about  1/2  hour 
in  a  rather  moderate  oven.  Serve  on  a  platter  garnished 
with  the  bacon .^Use  either  white  or  yellow  cornmeal. 

SPINACH  OMELET 

1  cup  cooked  spinach  1/2  cup  cream 

J  1/2  tablespoons  flour  k  1/3  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  of  pepper 
4  eggs 

Chop  the  spinach  fine,  and  make  a  sauce  of  the  butter, 
flour,  cream,  pepper,  and  salt,  allowing  it  to  boil  thoroughly. 
Combine  this  with  the  spinach.  Separate  the  egg-yolks  from 
the  whites;  beat  the  yolks  till  lemon-colored,  adding  1/3 


MILK  AND  EGGS  41 

teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper.  Beat  the  whites  till  stiff 
and  dry  and  cut  and  fold  them  into  the  first  mixture.  Pour 
the  egg  mixture  into  a  hot,  well-buttered  omelet  pan,  spread- 
ing the  spinach  over  the  top.  Cook  very  gently  for  about 
twelve  minutes  till  the  egg  is  set  and  the  omelet  brown. 
Fold  as  usual. 

EGGS  IN  MASHED  POTATO 

2  cups  cold  mashed  potato 
1/2  cup  bread  crumbs 
1/2  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg. 

4  eggs 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley 

I  teaspoon  drippings 

Mix  the  seasoned  mashed  potato  with  the  nutmeg  and 
divide  into  four  parts  (if  the  potatoes  are  stiff  add  a  little 
milk) .  Roll  in  the  bread  crumbs  and  place  in  an  earthenware 
dish  which  has  been  brushed  with  the  drippings.  Make  a 
hole  in  the  center  of  the  potatoes  large  enough  to  hold  an 
egg.  Break  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  into  the  center  of  the 
potato  nest.  Sprinkle  the  eggs  with  salt,  or  add  a  few  slices 
of  bacon.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  the  eggs  are 
set  to  one's  liking.  Sprinkle  the  top  with  parsley  and  serve. 


CHAPTER  V 

MEAT 

Beef,  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  chicken,  and  all  other  ani- 
mal flesh  are  included  in  the  general  term  meat.  They 
vary  little  in  their  general  structure,  composition,  or 
nutritive  value.  The  population  of  the  world  is  increas- 
ing faster  than  the  number  of  meat  animals,  so  that  the 
price  of  meat  is  constantly  increasing  and  there  is  no 
immediate  prospect  of  its  being  lowered.  Meat  is  usu- 
ally the  most  expensive  part  of  the  diet.  Those  fami- 
lies who  desire  to  reduce  the  cost  of  living  can  do  so  by 
using  less  meat. 

When  we  look  at  a  piece  of  raw  meat,  it  is  easy  to 
see  that  it  is  largely  made  up  of  water,  the  actual  per- 
What  meat  centage  being  about  62  per  cent.  We  next 
is  made  of  notice  that  there  are  two  distinct  types  of 
tissue,  the  red  lean  tissue  which  is  made  up  of  protein 
material,  and  the  fatty  tissue.  Since  the  fat  occurs 
throughout  the  lean  material  as  well  as  in  the  large 
sections  easily  seen,  taking  the  place  in  the  tissues  of 
water,  a  piece  of  meat  that  is  well  streaked  with  fat 
would  be  more  economical  than  a  lean  one.  The  average 
piece  of  meat  with  a  moderate  amount  of  fat  contains 
about  18  per  cent  protein  material  and  from  18  per  cent 
to  20  per  cent  of  fat.  There  is  no  carbohydrate  in 
meat,  but  there  is  about  one  per  cent  of  mineral  salts. 

On  further  examination  it  is  seen  that  raw  meat  is 
made  up  of  distinct  bundles  of  muscle  fiber,  giving  to 
meat  what  is  known  as  "  grain.' '  These  bundles  can  be 


PLATE  A 
SIDE  OF  BEEF 
BOSTON  CUTS 


I 

NECK 

2 

CHUCK  RIB 

3 

PRIME  RIB 

4 

SIRLOIN 

5 

BACK  OF  RUMP 

6 

MIDDLE  OF  RUMP 

7 

FACE  OF  RUMP 

8 

AITCH   BONE 

9 

ROUND 

10 

VEIN 

ii 

HIND  SHIN 

12 

FLANK 

13 

RATTLE  RAND 

14 

BRISKET 

IS 

FORE  SHIN 

MEAT  43 

pulled  apart  into  still  smaller  bundles  until  finally  we 
see  under  the  microscope  that  each  bundle  is  made  up 
of  a  group  of  hollow  tubes  held  together  by  connective 
tissue.  These  hollow  tubes  or  muscle  fibers  vary  in 
length  and  toughness  of  structure  with  the  age  of  the 
animal,  the  use  to  which  the  muscle  has  been  put,  and 
the  length  of  time  since  the  slaughter  of  the  animal. 
Each  tube  contains  a  liquid  which  holds  in  solution  a 
protein  substance  similar  to  the  white  of  egg.  It  also 
contains  the  mineral  salts  that  are  in  the  meat,  and  the 
substances  called  "extractives"  which  give  each  meat 
its  own  peculiar  flavor.  The  walls  of  the  tubes  are  an- 
other type  of  protein  material,  as  also  is  the  connective 
tissue  which  binds  the  tubes  together  and  unites  them 
into  bundles.  Fat  globules  are  found  embedded 
throughout  the  meat  in  this  connective  tissue.  When 
a  piece  of  meat  is  carved  with  the  grain,  the  bundles  of 
fibers  are  not  broken  open,  hence  the  slice  is  stringy 
and  tough.  When,  however,  meat  is  carved  across  the 
grain,  each  hollow  tube  is  cut  in  small  pieces,  thus  re- 
leasing the  juice  within  and  making  the  slice  juicy  and 
easier  to  chew. 

As  an  animal  grows  older,  the  muscle  fiber  becomes 
tougher,  as  also  does  the  connective  tissue.  This  also 
is  true  of  the  muscle  that  has  constant  what  makes 
use.  At  the  same  time,  however,  the  quan-  some  meat 
tity  of   juice  in  the  muscle  fiber  is  in-    oug 
creased  and  the  flavor  is  developed.  A  cheap  cut  of 
meat  is  a  tough  cut,  but  at  the  same  time  a  juicy  one. 
Therefore  it  is  preferable  for  making  soup  or  for  the 
extraction  of  juice. 

In  former  times  the  fatted  calf  was  kept  alive  until 
the  honored  guest  arrived,  since  it  was  impossible  to 


44    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

have  refrigerating  plants.  Because  it  was  used  at  once, 
it  was  a  tender,  juicy  morsel.  If,  however,  the  guest 
had  been  delayed  and  the  meat  had  to  be  kept  twenty- 
four  hours,  it  would  have  been  found  to  be  very  tough. 
This  is  due  to  the  hardening  of  the  muscle  fiber  and  the 
solidifying  of  the  juices  due  to  the  cessation  of  the  life 
processes.  Because  of  this  fact,  meat  is  hung  or  kept 
for  different  lengths  of  time,  depending  upon  the  vari- 
ety. This  permits  the  first  stage  of  bacterial  action  to 
begin  which  again  softens  the  tissue.  With  some  kinds 
of  meat  this  process  is  allowed  to  go  far,  as  for  instance 
with  venison  and  game  birds.  Frequently  in  country 
regions  a  farmer  butchers  his  calf  and  peddles  the  meat 
the  next  day.  The  housekeeper  buying  this  meat  would 
find  it  very  tough  if  she  used  it  that  day.  If,  however, 
she  kept  it  on  ice  for  four  or  five  days  she  would  find 
she  had  a  tender  piece  of  veal.  Chickens  also  are  better 
if  kept  after  killing  for  two  or  three  days,  unless  eaten 
immediately  after  killing. 

CUTS  OF  BEEF 

There  is  some  confusion  throughout  the  country  in 
purchasing  beef  because  of  the  various  ways  in  which 
it  is  cut  in  different  localities.  After  the  slaughter  of  the 
animal  the  beef  carcass  is  always  split  lengthwise 
down  the  backbone  into  two  "sides."  These  are  hung 
by  the  hind  legs,  and  the  beef  is  shipped  in  this  form. 

The  retailer  divides  the  " sides* '  to  suit  his  trade, 
according  to  the  part  of  the  country  in  which  his  shop 
„«.-  „  is  located.  There  are  two  chief  ways  of 
cutting  a  side  of  beef.  One  is  known  as  the 
"Boston  cut,"  and  is  used  generally  throughout  New 
England.  The  other  is  the  "New  York  or  Philadelphia 


PLATE  B 
BOSTON  CUTS 


SIRLOIN  ROAST 

A       SIRLOIN  B       TENDERLOIN1 

C       FLANK  D       KIDNEY  SUET 


TIP  OF  SIRLOIN 


RIB   ROAST 


MIDDLE  CUT  OF  SIRLOIN 


PLATE  C 
BOSTON  CUTS 


SIRLOIN  OR   PORTERHOUSE 
STEAK 

A       SIRLOIN  B       TENDERLOIN 

C      FLANK 


ROUND  OF  BEEF 

A       TOP   ROUND  B      BOTTOM  ROUND 

C       VEIN  D      SHIN 


MIDDLE  CUT  OF   RUMP 


MEAT  45 

cut/'  and  has  been  adopted  quite  universally  through- 
out the  United  States  except  in  New  England.  The 
New  York  method  of  cutting  is  used  by  the  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture  in  their  Farmers'  Bulletins.  It  is  to 
be  noted  that  cuts  of  the  same  name  may  be  taken 
from  different  parts  of  the  animal  in  different  locali- 
ties. This  explains  why  a  New  Yorker  is  puzzled  not  to 
find  as  good  beef  in  Boston  as  she  is  accustomed  to  in 
New  York,  and  why  a  Bostonian  is  frequently  heard 
to  complain  of  New  York  beef.  Accustomed  to  the  best 
cuts  at  home  under  a  certain  name,  they  purchase 
quite  a  different  cut  under  the  same  name  in  the  other 
city. 

The  side  is  cut  across  at  right  angles  to  the  back- 
bone, making  "hind"  and  "fore"  quarters.  Here  lies 
the  first  point  of  difference.  In  the  Boston  <c  n 

cut  three  ribs  are  left  on  the  hind  quarter, 
whereas  in  the  New  York  cut  all  ribs  are  left  on  the 
fore  quarter.  This  means  that  the  first  cut  of  the  fore 
quarter  in  New  York  is  the  same  piece  of  meat  as  the 
first  cut  on  the  hind  quarter  in  Boston.  A  prime  rib 
roast,  the  same  ribs  in  both  cases,  is  the  first  cut  of  the 
fore  quarter  in  Boston  and  the  second  cut  in  New  York. 

Plates  A  and  D  show  the  "quarter"  division  line 
between  sections  (3)  and  (4).  The  pieces  of  the  fore 
quarter  are  used  for  the  same  purposes  in  both  meth- 
ods: the  ribs  (3)  for  roasts;  the  chuck  (2)  for  roasts  and 
stews;  the  neck  (1)  for  soup  stock,  stews,  and  beef -tea; 
the  rattle  rand  (13)  and  brisket  (14)  of  Plate  A,  and 
the  plate  (10),  navel  (11),  and  brisket  (13)  of  Plate 
D,  are  used  for  corning;  and  the  fore  shin  (15)  is  used 
for  soup. 

The  greatest  difference  is  in  the  way  of  cutting  the 


46    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

hind  quarter,  and  the  confusion  thus  brought  about 
L  .  is  increased  by  using  the  same  terms  for 

different  parts  of  the  quarter.  The  loin  (4) 
in  both  plates  is  cut  in  slices  at  right  angles  to  the  back- 
bone for  steaks  or  in  larger  pieces  for  roasts.  The  ten- 
derloin is  an  oval-shaped  muscle  lying  underneath  the 
backbone  in  this  section.  It  is  sometimes  removed 
whole  for  a  roast  called  a  "fillet  of  beef,"  but  is  more 
frequently  sliced  with  the  sirloin  muscle  to  form 
steaks.  The  "Club"  or  "Delmonico"  steak  is  the  one 
in  which  only  the  tip  of  the  tenderloin  appears.  A 
"Porterhouse"  steak  is  one  in  which  there  is  a  cut  of 
the  tenderloin  through  its  thickest  part.  This  relation 
of  tenderloin  to  sirloin  muscle  can  be  seen  in  the  pic- 
ture of  a  Porterhouse  steak  in  Plate  C.  The  terms 
"Club"  and  "Porterhouse"  steaks  are  used  alike  in 
both  the  New  York  and  Boston  systems. 

The  next  section  below  the  loin  in  the  Boston  cut  is 
called  the  "rump"  (5,  6,  and  7  of  Plate  A).  This  part 
is  cut  out  in  a  solid  piece,  and  the  bone  re- 
moved. It  is  then  divided  into  three 
pieces:  the  back,  the  middle  cut,  and  the  face.  These 
are  used  for  roasts,  or  cut  in  slices  for  steaks.  The  back 
makes  the  best  roast,  and  is  more  economical  than  sir- 
loin roasts,  as  there  is  no  waste.  The  other  two  rump 
cuts  (6  and  7)  are  sometimes  used  for  beef  a  la  mode  or 
pot  roasts. 

[  This  section  in  New  York  (Plate  D,  4)  is  still  cut  in 
slices  like  the  loin  to  make  the  large  sirloin  steaks  — 
the  hip-bone,  the  flat-bone,  and  the  round-bone  sirloin 
steaks.  These  are  not  to  be  bought  on  the  Boston  mar- 
ket. The  New  York  rump  (Plate  D,  5),  used  for  stews 
and  corning,  is  a  cut  which  includes  part  of  the  Boston 


PLATE  D 

SIDE  OF  BEEF 

NEW  YORK  CUTS 


i  NECK 

2  CHUCK 

3  RIB  ROAST 

4  LOIN 

5  RUMP 

6  ROUND 

7  BOTTOM  OF  ROUND 

8  HIND  SHIN 

9  FLANK 
io  PLATE 
ii  NAVEL 

12  CROSS  RIBS 

13  BRISKET 

14  CLOD 

15  FORE  SHIN 


MEAT 


47 


rump,  the  aitch  bone,  and  part  of  the  round  (Plate  A, 
8  and  9). 

The  round  of  beef  (Plate  A,  9,  and  Plate  D,  6)  is 
much  the  same  cut  in  both  methods.  It  is  divided  into 
"top"  and  "bottom"  round  (Plate  C)  R(mnd 
according  to  the  way  the  piece  lies  on  the 
counter  with  the  leg  bone  parallel  to  the  counter.  The 
top  is  used  for  steaks  and  roasts,  though  the  farther 
down  the  leg  the  slice  is  cut  the  tougher  the  muscle  be- 
comes. The  bottom  round  is  tougher  than  the  top  and 
is  used  for  beef -juice,  Hamburg  steak,  and  sometimes 
for  stew  meat. 

The  piece  cut  from  the  round  in  Boston,  known  as 
the  "vein"  (Plate  A,  10),  is  used  for  a  roast  or  for 
braised  beef.  It  is  stringy  but  juicy.  The  hind  shin  (11) 
is  used  for  soup  stock. 


Part 

Part 

How  cooked 

Boston  cut 

New  York  cut 

Fore  Quarter 

Neck 

Neck 

Stewed 

Chuck  ribs 

Chuck 

Roasted,  wasteful 

Prime  ribs 

Prime  ribs 

Roasted,  high  grade 

Fore  shin 

Fore  shin 

Stewed  and  for  soup 

Rattle  rand  \ 
Brisket         > 

Plate                         1 

Cross  ribs  (roasted)  \ 

„   Corned 

Navel 

Brisket                    J 

Hind  Quarter 

' 

Sirloin 

Loin 

Roasted  or  broiled,  ten- 
der and  well-flavored 

Rump 

f  Sirloin  steaks 
\  Part  of  rump 

Roasted  or  broiled, 

juicy,  no  waste 

Part  of  rump  J 

Aitch  bone      > 

Rump 

Stewed  or  corned 

Part  of  round  ) 

Round 

Round 

Broiled,  stewed,  or  for 
pot  roast 

Hind  shin 

Hind  shin 

Stewed  for  soup 

Flank 

Flank 

Braised  or  boiled 

48    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

It  has  been  shown  by  the  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture in  a  long  series  of  experiments  that  there  is  practi- 
Ways  of  cally  no  difference  in  digestibility  or  nutri- 

cooking  meat  tive  value  between  the  various  cuts  of  the 
same  animal  or  of  different  types  of  animals.  The  sole 
difference  lies  in  the  convenience  of  handling  and  in 
the  length  of  time  involved  in  preparing  the  meat  for 
use.  When  the  ways  given  in  a  cook-book  for  cooking 
meat  are  looked  over,  it  is  found  that  they  fall  easily 
into  three  groups,  depending  upon  the  result  desired. 
The  first  group  includes  all  recipes  in  which  the  juices 
only  of  the  meat  are  used.  This  would  include  meat 
soups  and  broths  of  all  kinds.  The  second  group  com- 
prises those  recipes  in  which  the  piece  of  meat  is  served 
as  a  whole  and  great  care  is  taken  to  retain  all  the 
juices,  such  as  roasts  and  beefsteak.  All  others  would 
fall  under  the  third  head,  where  the  meat  and  the 
juices  are  served  together.  This  includes  stews  of  all 
kinds,  pot  roasts,  beef  a  la  mode,  and  all  so-called 
" made"  dishes,  where  the  juices  in  the  form  of  gravy 
are  served  with  the  meat  itself. 

Since  it  is  the  juice  of  the  meat  that  is  desired  for 

soup,  a  cut  is  chosen  from  a  muscle  that  has  had  much 

use,  not  only  because  this  is  cheaper,  but 
Soup-making  .  .    . 

because   it  contains   more  juice.   Every 

kind  of  meat  may  be  used  alone  or  in  combination; 
bones,  pieces  left  from  roasts,  and  trimmings  may  all 
go  into  the  soup-pot.  It  is  well  to  have  some  bone  with 
the  meat,  for  from  the  bone  as  well  as  from  the  connec- 
tive tissue,  gelatine  is  formed  on  boiling.  If  the  broth 
is  to  be  used  for  a  child  or  an  invalid,  instead  of  using 
fragments  it  is  better  to  buy  meat  especially  for  this 
purpose,  either  the  neck  of  mutton  for  mutton-broth, 


PLATE  E 
NEW  YORK  CUTS 


RUMP  OF   BEEF 


LOIN  OF  BEEF 


PLATE  F 
BOSTON  CUTS 


A 


> 


•  'i 


RIB  AND  LOIN  CHOPS 

-—A    RIB  CHOPS 
B     LOIN  CHOPS 


FOREQUARTER  OF  LAMB 


MEAT  49 

or  the  shin  of  beef  for  beef -broth.  The  meat  for  soup 
should  be  cut  in  small  pieces  so  as  to  have  as  large  a 
surface  exposed  as  possible.  It  should  be  well  covered 
with  cold  water,  and  well  salted  and  allowed  to  stand 
for  about  an  hour.  This  draws  out  the  juices.  It  is  then 
put  over  a  slow  fire  and  allowed  to  heat  gradually,  but 
should  never  be  allowed  to  boil,  since  boiling  will 
harden  all  the  protein  material  present  in  the  juices. 
This  is  what  forms  the  scum  on  the  top  of  a  soup-pot 
that  ordinarily  is  carefully  removed  and  thrown  away 
as  being  unsightly.  Soup  at  best,  when  made  under  the 
most  careful  conditions,  contains  only  a  small  propor- 
tion of  the  total  nourishment  of  the  meat,  since  only 
that  protein  present  in  the  juices  is  in  the  soup.  If 
this  is  skimmed  off  and  thrown  away,  it  leaves  only 
the  flavor,  mineral  salts,  and  whatever  gelatine  has 
been  formed  from  the  bones  and  connective  tissue.  A 
cleared  soup,  such  as  bouillon  or  consomme,  contains 
practically  no  nourishment,  but  is  merely  a  stimulant 
and  should  be  used  as  an  appetizer  before  a  heavy 
meal.  It  should  be  noted  that  the  meat  left  from  soup- 
making  contains  by  far  the  larger  proportion  of  the 
protein  material  of  the  original  piece.  To  be  sure,  it  is 
tough  and  has  no  flavor,  but  it  is  far  too  valuable  to  be 
thrown  away.  It  can  be  put  through  the  meat-chopper 
and  used,  when  highly  seasoned,  in  "  made-up  "  dishes 
of  various  kinds.  \ 

In  order  to  retain  all  the  juices  as  for  a  roast,  it  is 
necessary  to  seal  up  the  outside  of  the  meat.  This  is 
done  by  sprinkling  a  roast  well  with  flour  R 
to  form  a  paste  with  the  water  in  the  meat, 
and  then  by  putting  it  into  a  hot  oven  which  quickly 
sears  the  outside.  After  this  is  done,  the  heat  is  reduced 


50    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  the  cooking  completed  at  a  steady  low  tempera- 
ture. When  a  roast  is  red  in  the  inside,  it  shows  that  it 
has  not  been  subjected  to  such  heat  as  would  coagulate 
the  protein  material  and  would  toughen  the  meat. 
_   jj.  The  same  idea  is  carried  out  in  broiling 

a  piece  of  meat  there  it  is  turned  fre- 
quently until  seared  on  both  sides  and  then  allowed  to 
finish  cooking  more  slowly. 

With  our  third  group,  which  is  by  far  the  largest,  the 
process  involved  is  practically  the  same,  even  though 
there  is  a  great  variety  in  the  finished 
products.  The  idea  is  to  use  a  cut  of  meat 
that  is  both  juicy  and  tough,  so  to  treat  it  as  to  make  it 
tender,  and  to  serve  it  with  the  juices  extracted  during 
the  process.  If  a  large  piece  of  meat  is  used,  as  for  a 
pot  roast,  it  is  usually  browned  all  over  on  a  frying- 
pan  before  it  is  subjected  to  a  long,  slow  cooking  in  hot 
water.  This  latter  may  be  done  in  the  oven  or  on  the 
top  of  the  stove.  Vegetables  or  various  kinds  of  season- 
ings may  be  added  during  the  process  of  cooking  and  a 
brown  gravy  made  from  the  juices.  The  meat  for  a  stew 
is  cut  up  into  one-inch  cubes.  These  may  be  browned 
iin  a  pan  for  a  brown  stew  or  may  be  left  as  they  are  for 
an  Irish  stew.  Then  they  are  covered  with  boiling  wa- 
ter and  allowed  to  cook  for  a  long  time  below  the  boil- 
ing point.  If  stews  are  allowed  to  boil,  the  protein  ma- 
terial becomes  tough  and  the  pieces  of  meat  are  hard 
and  leathery.  Vegetables  are  usually  added  during  the 
process  and  the  gravy  is  slightly  thickened  with  flour. 
The  great  variety  of  recipes  in  this  group  is  due  to  dif- 
ferent combinations  of  flavors  used  by  various  cooks, 
each  one  having  a  distinct  name.  This  process  may 
well  be  carried  out  in  a  fireless  cooker.  In  this  case, 


MEAT  51 

however,  the  stew  must  be  boiled  for  fifteen  minutes 
before  being  put  into  the  cooker. 

POULTRY 

Although  the  ways  of  cooking  chicken  may  fall  into 
any  one  of  these  groups,  it  may  be  well  to  add  a  special 
word  on  the  subject.  When  buying  a  chicken  we  can 
distinguish  between  chicken  and  fowl  in  this  way:  a 
fowl  has  hairs  on  the  body  and  not  so  many  pin-feath- 
ers; the  skin  is  also  coarser,  there  are  scales  on  the  feet, 
and  the  end  of  the  breast-bone  is  stiff  and  not  pliable 
as  in  a  chicken.  A  hand-picked  chicken  is  more  tender 
than  one  that  has  been  scalded  before  the  feathers  are 
removed,  although  the  other  has  a  smoother,  more  at- 
tractive appearance. 

To  dress  a  chicken  or  fowl,  make  a  small  incision 
between  the  end  of  the  breast-bone  and  the  tail,  not 
deep  enough  to  cut  through  the  membrane  To  dress  a 
surrounding  the  entrails.  The  fat  can  be  chicken 
easily  separated  from  the  body  of  the  bird  and  all  the 
entrails  can  be  removed  at  once  if  this  membrane  has 
not  been  pierced.  Be  careful  to  remove  the  lungs  which 
lie  close  to  the  breast-bone  and  which  do  not  come  out 
with  the  entrails.  The  kidneys  also  must  be  removed 
separately.  The  crop  can  be  slipped  out  through  the 
neck  opening  without  making  an  incision  below  the 
neck.  The  tendons  of  the  legs  may  be  pulled  by  making 
a  cut  through  the  skin  above  the  joint  before  removing 
the  feet.  Remove  all  pin-feathers  and  singe  off  the 
hairs. 

After  the  bird  has  been  stuffed  and  sewed  up,  it  is 
trussed  for  baking.  One  skewer  is  put  crosswise  through 
the  bone  by  the  tail;  another  skewer  is  put  through 


52     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

the  body  at  the  largest  part  of  the  legs;  a  third  is  so 
To  truss  a  placed  in  the  upper  part  of  the  body  as  to 
bird  for  hold  both  wings  in  place  and  the  end  of 

roasting  ^e  neck  which  has  been  brought  down  on 

the  back.  A  string  is  wound  around  the  ends  of  the  legs 
and  the  ends  of  the  tail  skewer,  holding  them  securely 
in  place ;  then  it  is  laced  across  the  back  of  the  chicken 
around  the  other  two  skewers  making  a  harness  to 
keep  the  wings  and  neck  in  place  without  having  any 
string  across  the  breast  of  the  bird. 

If  a  giblet  gravy  is  desired,  the  liver,  heart,  and  giz- 
zard are  removed  from  the  entrails.  Care  must  be 
taken  to  cut  away  from  the  liver  the  gall- 
bladder and  any  discolored  parts.  The 
clotted  blood  should  be  thoroughly  washed  out  of  the 
heart.  The  fat  around  the  gizzard  can  be  easily  pulled 
off,  and  the  thin  membrane  on  the  outside  of  the  fleshy 
portion  can  be  cut  away  with  a  sharp  knife.  The  flesh 
can  then  be  separated  very  easily  from  the  heavy 
membrane  enclosing  the  sac  with  its  disagreeable  con- 
tents. The  prepared  giblets  should  be  dropped  into 
boiling  water  at  once  and  simmered  until  tender.  They 
may  then  be  set  aside  to  be  used  for  the  gravy  when 
the  chicken  is  served. 

One  word  further.  Since  pork  and  its  products,  with 
the  exception  of  bacon,  contain  so  much  fat  in  close 
combination  with  the  protein  material,  they  are  diffi- 
cult to  digest  and  should  not  be  given  to  children  nor 
adults  who  have  weak  digestion.  Crisp  bacon  fat  is, 
however,  one  of  the  most  digestible  of  the  fats  and  can 
be  used  freely  in  combination  with  potatoes  and  other 
vegetables. 


MEAT  53 

MEAT  RECIPES 

SOUP  STOCK 

4  pounds  meat  1/4  of  a  sweet  pepper 

4  pints  cold  water  .  1 1/2  teaspoons  sweet  herbs  (mar- 

2  teaspoons  salt  joram,  thyme,  etc.) 

IO-12  peppercorns  or  1/4   cup  each  carrot,    onion, 

1  sprig  parsley  celery,  turnip,  cut  in 
4  cloves  small  pieces 

1/2  of  a  bay  leaf 

Wash  and  cut  meat  and  bones.  Put  in  kettle  with  cold 
water,  and  soak  for  1/2  hour.  Place  over  fire  and  heat  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point.  Simmer  5  or  6  hours.  Strain  and  cool. 

TO  CLARIFY  SOUP  STOCK 

Remove  fat  from  the  stock  (strain  through  cheesecloth). 
Allow  the  white  and  shell  of  1  egg  to  each  pint  of  stock. 
Beat  the  white  slightly,  crush  the  shell,  and  add  to  the  cold 
stock.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached. 
Boil  3  to  5  minutes  according  to  the  amount  of  stock.  Set 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  settle  for  10  minutes.  Remove  the 
scum.  Strain  through  a  sieve  set  on  top  of  cheesecloth.  If 
necessary  reheat  before  serving. 

Season  soup  to  taste  before  clearing. 

Lean  raw  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  white  of  egg.  It  is 
more  bother  to  handle,  but  is  cheaper  than  eggs  when  stock 
is  to  be  cleared  in  large  quantity. 

SOUP  STOCK 

4  pounds  of  the  "meat  end"  of  a  hind  shin  of  beef 

2  quarts  very  cold  water 
1  onion,  sliced  across 

Salt,  pepper,  some  bay  leaves 
1  egg 


54    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cut  meat  and  bone  into  inch  cubes.  Pour  the  cold  water 
over  it.  Stand  overnight  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  morning  put 
on  stove  and  heat  slowly.  It  should  simmer  and  not  boil, 
for  6  or  8  hours.  Strain  through  a  sieve  into  a  wide  bowl. 
The  next  day  remove  the  fat.  Add  the  onion,  seasonings, 
and  egg  beaten  up  with  the  shell.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Then 
add  enough  caramel  to  give  it  color  and  let  all  boil  45  min- 
utes. Strain  through  scrim  into  a  bowl. 

PLAIN  STEW 

I  pound  breast  of  veal  or  lamb    1  tablespoon  butter 

(meat  and  bone)  1  onion 

I  teaspoon  salt  I  carrot 

1/16  teaspoon  pepper  1  turnip 

I  quart  water  or  stock  2  potatoes 

Gravy:   1  to  2  tablespoons  flour 
1  to  2  tablespoons  water 

Cut  meat  in  small  pieces,  put  with  salt,  pepper,  and  cold 
water  or  stock  in  saucepan.  Raise  slowly  to  simmering  point 
and  keep  it  there  until  tender,  2  or  3  hours.  Cut  vegetables 
into  small  pieces  or  fancy  shapes,  brown  them  in  butter  and 
add  to  the  stew  half  an  hour  before  serving,  giving  time 
enough  to  cook  the  vegetables.  Take  the  solid  material  out, 
thicken  and  season  the  gravy,  and  serve  all  together. 

BEEF  STEW 

The  five  chuck  ribs  may  be  used  for  stew,  the  rump  piece, 
or  the  upper  part  of  the  round. 

5  pounds  of  either  of  the  above  cuts     I  onion  cut  in  slices 
4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  thin  slices     1/4  cup  flour 
1/2  cup  carrots  diced  Salt  and  pepper 

Remove  bone,  wipe  meat  and  cut  into  pieces  1  inch 
square,  and  dredge  thickly  with  flour. 

Render  slowly  2  tablespoons  suet  fat.  Add  the  meat  to 


MEAT  55 

the  fat  and  brown.  Add  remaining  fat  and  bone,  also  flour. 
Add  cold  water  to  partly  cover,  raise  it  to  simmering  point 
and  allow  it  to  simmer  gently  until  meat  is  tender.  Add 
carrot  and  onion  with  seasonings  the  last  hour  of  cooking. 
Parboil  potatoes  and  add  to  stew  the  last  15  minutes.  Re- 
move bone  and  any  pieces  of  fat,  and  skim  the  stew  care- 
fully before  serving. 

BRAISED  BEEF 

3  pounds  beef  from  lower  part   Carrot " 

of  round  or  face  of  rump     Turnip  I  1/4  cup  each, 

2  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork  Onion    j  cut  in  dice 
1/2  teaspoon  peppercorns  Celery  ^ 

3  cloves  Salt  and  pepper 

1  bay  leaf 

Try  out  pork  and  remove  scraps.  Wipe  meat,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  and  brown  entire 
surface  in  pork  fat.  Place  on  trivet  in  deep  granite  pan  or  in 
earthen  pudding-dish,  and  surround  with  vegetables,  pepper- 
corns, and  3  cups  boiling  water;  cover  closely  and  bake  4 
hours  in  very  slow  oven,  basting  every  1/2  hour,  and  turn 
after  second  hour.  Throughout  the  cooking  the  liquid  should 
be  kept  below  the  boiling  point.  Serve  with  horseradish 
sauce,  or  with  brown  sauce  made  from  liquor  in  pan. 

MOCK  DUCK 

Sear  2  pounds  flank  or  skirt  steak,  stuff,  and  roll  it,  tie 
it,  and  put  in  double  roasting-pan  with  water  under  it.  Cook 
3  hours  in  slow  oven,  never  allowing  water  to  cook  out  en- 
tirely. Serve  hot,  making  a  sauce  with  liquor  in  pan,  season- 
ing with  tomato. 

STUFFING 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

I  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  chopped  pickle 

1/4  teaspoon  pepper  1  teaspoon  onion  juice 

I  teaspoon  lemon  juice        1/4  cup  melted  butter 


56    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

BEEF  OLIVES 

Cut  chuck  steak  1/2  inch  thick;  take  pieces  4  inches 
square,  sear  them  both  sides,  put  stuffing  on  them,  roll,  and 
tie.  Put  in  double  roasting  pan  with  brown  sauce  under- 
neath. Cook  in  slow  oven  2  hours.  Season  sauce  and  serve. 

HAMBURG  STEAK 

1  pound  chuck  steak  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  onion  1/3  teaspoon  pepper 

Chop  meat  and  onion  together,  season,  make  into  firm 
balls,  sear  in  butter,  reduce  the  temperature,  turn  balls 
often,  and  serve  rare. 

SALISBURY  STEAK 

I  pound  chopped  chuck     1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

I  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  minced  parsley 

Make  into  firm  balls,  sear  in  hot  butter,  cook  at  a  lower 
temperature,  turning  often,  serve  rare. 

MEAT  BALLS  WITH  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

1  pound  chopped  chuck         1/6  teaspoon  pepper 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Cook  according  to  directions  for  Salisbury  steak.  Serve 
with  sauce : 

1/2  cup  horseradish  1/2  cup  cream 

1/2  cup  cracker  dust  1  teaspoon  mustard 

1  teaspoon  salt  1/4  cup  vinegar 

1/16  teaspoon  pepper  2  teaspoons  powdered  sugar 

Mix  salt,  pepper,  cracker  and  horseradish.  Make  paste  of 
mustard  and  cream  in  a  spoon,  add  it  with  cream  to  mixture. 
Add  full  amount  of  vinegar  if  horseradish  is  fresh,  and  heat 
the  materials  over  water.  Serve  hot. 


MEAT  57 

GERMAN  HORSERADISH  SAUCE 

1/2  cup  horseradish  1  teaspoon  salt 

Vinegar  to  cover  1  sour  apple  grated 

2  teaspoons  sugar  Serve  cold 

ROAST  BREAST  OF  LAMB 

Prepare  meat  by  skinning,  trimming  if  necessary,  and 
wiping  with  damp  cloth.  Plunge  into  boiling  salted  water 
and  simmer  until  tender.  Take  from  the  water,  remove  bones, 
place  on  rack  in  dripping-pan,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  with  brown  tomato  sauce  using 
the  water  it  was  cooked  in  as  part  of  the  liquid. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON 

Wipe  meat,  place  in  a  kettle,  and  cover  with  boiling  water. 
Bring  quickly  to  boiling  point,  boil  5  minutes,  and  skim. 
Set  on  back  of  range  and  simmer  until  meat  is  tender.  When 
half  done,  add  1  tablespoon  salt.  Thirty  minutes  before  re- 
moving the  meat  add  one  cup  of  soup  vegetables.  Cut  the 
carrot  and  turnip  in  half -inch  thick  slices  and  stamp  with 
fluted  cutter.  Place  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  and  rub  lightly 
over  it  enough  of  the  white  sauce  (to  be  used  for  the  caper 
sauce)  to  make  surface  white  and  smooth.  Sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley  or  capers.  Cut  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the 
sliced  vegetables  and  string  them  alternately  on  the  bone. 
Serve  with  caper  sauce,  or  add  to  two  cups  white  sauce 
(made  of  half  milk  and  half  mutton  stock)  two  hard-boiled 
eggs  cut  in  slices. 

MUTTON  STEW 

I  pound  flank  of  mutton         3  slices  turnip 
1  small  onion  1  tablespoon  butter 

3  slices  carrot  2  tablespoons  flour 

Pepper  and  salt 


58     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cut  mutton  into  small  pieces.  Season  and  place  in  earthen 
dish.  Add  vegetables;  mix  butter  and  flour,  add  hot  water 
and  pour  over  meat.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  add  salt  to 
taste.  Boil  15  minutes,  and  cook  5  hours  in  fireless  cooker. 

STUFFED  SPARERIB 

I  whole  spare  rib  cracked  in  middle 
4  apples 
/  1/4  pound  raisins 

Wipe  meat  with  damp  cloth.  Slice  apples,  seed  raisins, 
place  on  half  of  sparerib,  fold  balance  over  it,  tie  or  sew 
together.  Put  it  on  rack  in  roasting-pan  and  into  hot  oven. 
After  10  minutes,  or  when  outside  is  seared,  reduce  tempera- 
ture of  oven  and  put  a  little  water  in  pan  with  which  to 
baste  roast  occasionally.  Cook  2  hours.  Serve  with  gravy 
made  from  liquor  in  pan. 

FRIED  SALT  PORK 

Cut  salt  side  pork  very  thin,  lay  each  piece  in  flour  and 
put  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  cook  until  light  brown.  Place  on 
hot  platter. 

Pour  from  the  pan  all  but  2  tablespoons  fat.  Add  2  table- 
spoons flour  and  1  cup  milk  as  in  white  sauce.  Season  and 
serve  with  baked  potatoes. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH 

Drop  the  corned  beef  into  boiling  water  and  simmer, 
allowing  30  minutes  to  the  pound.  When  cold  chop  rather 
coarse.  Chop  cold  cooked  potatoes  coarse  also.  Dry  bread 
may  be  used  instead  of  part  of  the  potato,  and  improves 
hash. 

4  cups  meat  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  cups  potato  1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 


MEAT  59 

Butter  the  bottom  of  a  skillet,  put  in  it  the  mixture  of 
meat  and  potato.  Over  the  top  put  seasoning  and  butter. 
Add  the  milk  and  put  the  skillet  in  the  oven.  Let  it  remain 
there  half  an  hour,  stirring  every  10  minutes.  If  browned 
hash  is  desired  reserve  half  of  the  butter  and  after  the  second 
stirring  melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  put  the  mixture 
into  it,  and  cook  on  the  top  of  the  stove,  without  stirring, 
until  brown  underneath.  Fold  and  serve. 

BEEF,  OATMEAL,  AND  TOMATO 

1  pound  shin  of  beef       1/3  cup  oatmeal 

2  sausages  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 
I  cup  canned  tomatoes         Salt  and  pepper 

Cut  beef  into  small  pieces,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per. Cut  sausages  into  inch  pieces,  roll  in  flour,  and  put  into 
earthen  dish  with  beef.  Add  other  ingredients  and  cook  5 
hours  in  fireless  cooker. 

BEEF  ROLL 

10  ounces  lean  beef  from        Salt  and  pepper 

shoulder  or  shin  I  slice  onion 

I  2  ounces  sausage  meat  1/2  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce 
Bread  crumbs  2  teaspoons  tomato  catsup 

Mix  sausage  meat  with  equal  quantity  of  stale  bread 
crumbs.  Cut  meat  into  slices  1/2  inch  thick  and  spread  with 
sausage.  Roll  up  and  tie  firmly.  Salt,  pepper,  and  dredge 
thickly  with  flour.  Put  into  earthen  dish  with  other  ingredi- 
ents. Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  5  hours  in  fireless 
cooker. 

SCALLOPED  MEAT 

Spread  in  a  baking-dish  alternate  layers  of  bread  crumbs 
or  cooked  macaroni  or  spaghetti,  meat  chopped  very  fine  or 
cut  in  cubes,  a  sprinkling  of  chopped  parsley,  onion,  pepper, 


60     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  salt.  When  the  dish  is  nearly  full,  pour  over  enough 
white  sauce  to  moisten  it  well;  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  brown  in  the  oven.  Soup  stock  or  tomatoes  may  also  be 
used  for  moistening  a  scallop.  A  scallop  made  of  raw  meat, 
tomatoes,  and  crumbs  makes  a  good  luncheon  dish.  If  un- 
cooked meat  is  used,  it  will  require  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven, 
and  more  liquid  will  be  needed. 

SHEPHERD'S  PIE 

1  onion  I  pound    raw  meat  or  left-over 

2  cups  tomato  meat  cut  up  small 
1/8  teaspoon  pepper       1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  fat 

Mashed  potato  for  the  crust 

Melt  the  fat,  add  the  sliced  onion,  and,  if  raw  meat  is 
used,  add  it  and  stir  until  the  red  color  disappears.  Add  the 
tomato  and  seasoning.  If  cooked  meat  is  used,  add  it  with 
the  tomato  and  seasoning,  after  the  onion  is  brown,  and 
heat  through.  Grease  a  baking-dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
potato,  add  the  meat  and  gravy,  and  cover  with  the  potato 
dotted  with  fat.  Bake  until  the  potato  is  browned. 

RICE  MEAT  PIE 

Put  in  baking-dish  any  left-over  meat  and  gravy.  Season 
well  with  chopped  onion,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Boil  1  cup  rice  in  salted  water.  When  done,  strain,  mix 
with  1  tablespoon  butter  and  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Put  all  on  top  of  meat  and  bake  1/2  hour. 

CALVES1  TONGUES  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE   k 

12  small  fresh  tongues 
f  6  fresh  tomatoes  or  1  can 

I  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  teaspoon  celery  extract,  or  tablespoon  celery  cut  fine 
1/4  teaspoon  onion  juice,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika  to  taste 


MEAT  61 

Put  tongues  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  for  30  minutes;  boil 
until  the  skins  crack.  This  will  take  from  three  to  four  hours. 
Remove  the  skin  without  tearing  the  meat. 

About  an  hour  before  serving  time,  make  a  sauce  by  cook- 
ing the  tomatoes,  onions,  parsley,  and  celery  until  very 
tender.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or  coarse  cloth,  allowing 
no  seeds  to  pass  through.  To  the  liquor  add  the  seasoning, 
and  allow  all  to  simmer  until  it  becomes  the  thickness  of 
catsup.  Fold  in  3  tablespoons  of  cream  whipped,  which 
should  thicken  the  sauce. 

te-  Arrange  crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  a  platter,  one  for  each 
tongue,  garnish  with  sliced  lemon  and  water  cress.  Serve 
sauce  in  sauce  boat. 

FRESH  BEEF'S  TONGUE 

Boil  the  tongue  slowly  until  tender,  putting  into  the  water 
part  of  an  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  3  or  4  allspice,  and  a  piece  of 
mace.  Let  it  stand  in  the  water  to  cool.  Take  out,  skin  it, 
and  stick  it  full  of  cloves.  Boil  it  again  for  a  little  while  until 
it  is  thoroughly  heated  through.  Put  the  water  in  which  the 
tongue  was  boiled  into  a  skillet,  thicken  with  a  little  flour; 
add  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and  a  glass  of  currant  jelly.  Let 
it  all  boil  slowly  until  it  is  reduced  to  about  a  pint.  Mean- 
while let  the  tongue  stand  on  a  tin  plate  on  top  of  the  fire 
to  keep  hot.  When  the  gravy  is  ready  put  the  tongue  in  it 
and  baste  it  until  it  is  smoking  hot  and  ready  to  serve.  Put 
the  tongue  -on  the  serving-dish,  pour  the  gravy  over  it  and 
decorate  with  slices  of  lemon. 

BRAISED  LAMBS'  HEARTS 

Wipe  each  heart,  cut  off  extra  fat  and  take  out  partition 
walls.  Stuff,  using  1/4  of  recipe  for  Mock  Duck,  tie  up,  and 
sear.  Make  1/3  cup  of  brown  sauce  in  dish  in  which  heart 
was  seared.  Put  hearts  in  double  roasting-pan  and  cook  in 
slow  oven,  3  to  5  hours.  Season  sauce  with  Worcestershire 
or  Tomato  Sauce  and  serve. 


62     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

PIGS  IN  CLOVER 

Cut  bacon  very  thin. 

Cut  calves'  liver  1/4  inch  thick.  Drop  it  into  water  below- 
boiling  temperature,  and  let  it  remain  for  a  few  minutes  to 
cook.  To  each  slice  of  bacon  pin  a  piece  of  liver  of  similar 
shape  with  a  toothpick.  Cook  them  in  a  hot  frying-pan  until 
light  brown.  Serve  on  toast. 

CREAMED  CHICKEN  WITH  MUSHROOMS 

1  cup  chicken  broth       3  cups  chopped  chicken  (cooked) 

1  cup  cream  1  cup  canned  mushrooms 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  lemon 

1/4  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  pan.  Stir  in  the  flour  until  smooth. 
Add  the  broth  and  the  cream.  As  it  thickens  add  the  chicken 
and  mushrooms.  Season  well  and  allow  to  cook  for  5  min- 
utes. Serve  in  warm  biscuit  shells  and  sprinkle  tops  with 
cheese  and  lemon  juice. 

TERRAPIN  CHICKEN 

I  quart  cold  chicken  cut  small  4  teaspoons  butter 

1  or  2  chicken  livers  4  teaspoons  cream 
3  hard-boiled  eggs  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  yolks  of  eggs  1/3  teaspoon  pepper 
I  cup  chicken  stock  1  teaspoon  lemon 

juice 

Chop  the  livers  and  the  hard-boiled  eggs  together  and  add 
them  to  the  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  the  pepper  and  the  salt. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  stove.  Add  flour  and 
stir  until  it  becomes  brown  and  frothy.  Move  the  pan  to  less 
hot  a  fire  and  add  the  chicken  stock  gradually.  Put  the  pan 
back  onto  the  fire  and  stir  three  minutes,  then  add  the  cream 
except  4  teaspoonfuls.  Stir  one  minute.  Add  the  chicken 
mixture  and  cook  ten  minutes.  While  it  is  cooking,  beat  the 


MEAT  63 

yolks  of  two  eggs  and  add  to  them  the  4  teaspoonfuls  of 
cream.  Pour  this  into  the  chicken  mixture,  stir  one  minute, 
add  the  lemon  juice  and  serve  at  once. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE  CREOLE 

Fry  chicken  lightly,  dredging  flour  into  the  fat,  and  brown. 
Add  2  cups  of  boiling  water,  1  quart  of  tomatoes,  peeled  and 
sliced,  1  small  onion  sliced,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  stew 
slowly  11/2  hours.  Serve  with  rice  border. 

A"FRIKASIE" 

{Colonial  Recipe)  Mrs.  John  Burroughs,  1734 

"Take  ye  fowls;  cut  them  in  pieces,  and  clean  them.  Sea- 
son with  pepper  and  salt,  a  little  mace,  nutmeg,  cloves,  some 
parsley,  a  little  bit  of  onion.  Let  them  lay  2  hours,  then 
flowr  them  well,  fry  in  sweet  butter,  and  make  ye  butter 
hott  before  you  put  them  in.  Fry  a  fine  brown.  Wash  ye 
pan,  and  put  them  in  again  with  a  pint  of  gravy.  Lett  them 
swimyer  in  ye  gravy.  Take  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  a  little 
grated  nutmeg,  a  little  juce  of  lemon  and  2  spoonsful  of 
wine.  Shake  it  over  the  fire  til  it  is  as  thick  as  cream,  pour 
over  ye  frikasie,  and  so  serve  it  to  ye  table  hot." 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN 

Put  1/2  cup  beef-dripping  or  bacon  fat  and  1  small  cup 
of  stock  in  the  bottom  of  a  pan.  Split  the  chickens,  dredge 
with  flour  all  over,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  putting  the 
chickens  breast  down,  and  putting  the  giblets  under  them. 
Allow  15  minutes  to  the  pound.  When  done,  take  out  the 
chickens,  mash  the  giblets,  adding  a  cup  of  rich  milk  to  the 
juice  to  make  the  gravy. 

FRICASSEED  RABBIT 

Skin  and  cut  in  pieces  and  lay  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes. 
Drain,  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  with  pepper  and  a  little  pork 


64    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

cut  in  strips.  Cover  with  water  and  simmer  1/2  hour.  Then 
add  a  small  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley, 
1  blade  of  mace,  and  a  little  clove.  Mix  to  a  smooth  paste 
1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  it  in  and  let  the  rabbit  simmer 
until  it  is  tender.  Then  stir,,  in  1/2  cup  rich  cream.  Boil  up 
and  serve 


SOUFFLE 

Chicken 

Veal 

Make  white  sauce  of 

2  cups 

2  tablespoons 

2  tablespoons 
,    I  teaspoon 
1/8  teaspoon 

Add  just  as  you 

milk  or  stock 
butter^ 
flour 
salt 
pepper 
take  from  the  fire: 

2  cups 

3  tablespoons 
6  tablespoons 
1  teaspoon 

1/8  teaspoon 

3 

..■  2  cups 
1/2  cup 

I  tablespoon 

egg-yolks 
chopped  meat 
soft  crumbs 
parsley 
lemon  juice 
onion  juice 

3  or  4 
2  cups 

2  tablespoons 
2  teaspoons 
8  drops 

Spread  on  bottom  of  dish  to  cool.  Cut  and  fold  into  the 
mixture 

egg-whites,  stiff        3  or  4 

Turn  into  a  buttered  baker  and  put  into  a  slow,  increasing 
oven  about  30  minutes  or  until  well  browned  over. 

Serve  at  once,  with  white  mushroom  sauce  for  the  chicken 
and  brown  tomato  sauce  for  the  veal. 

Cheese  Souffle  may  be  made,  using  grated  cheese  in- 
stead of  meat  and  few,  if  any,  of  the  extra  flavors.  It  may  be 
served  with  white  sauce  or  alone. 


MEAT  t  65 

CROQUETTES 

2  cups  cold  fowl  or  veal  cut  fine  ■,  4  drops  onion 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  parsley 

Cayenne  1/2  teaspoon  celery  salt 

1  teaspoon  lemon  juice  for  veal 

Mix  meat  and  seasoning,  add  as  much  white  sauce  as  you 
can  to  be  able  to  handle  the  mixture  and  yet  have  a  soft 
creamy  croquette  when  served.  For  this  amount  make  1  cup 
white  sauce,  using  but  4  tablespoons  butter  and  6  table- 
spoons flour  to  the  pint. 

Chill  the  mixture,  shape  quickly,  crumb,  eggt  and  crumb. 
Fry  but  six  at  once,  as  more  cool  the  fat  too  much. 

CHICKEN  CHARTREUSE 

A :  1  cup  cooked  chicken,  minced  fine 

B:  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  1/2  teaspoon  onion  juice, 
1/4  teaspoon  salt. 

2  tablespoons  tomato  juice,  1  beaten  eggt  dash  of 
pepper 

Mix  A  with  B.  Line  a  buttered  dish  1  inch  thick  with 
boiled  rice.  Fill  center  with  chicken  mixture,  cover  top  with 
rice.  Cover  and  steam  45  minutes.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce 
poured  around  it. 

CREOLE  SAUCE 

To  be  served  with  steaks  or  chicken 

2  onions  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

1/2  pound  ham  12  tomatoes 

2  garlic  cloves  Salt,  pepper,  and  paprika 

to  taste 

Melt  the  butter.  Chop  the  onions  and  garlic  cloves  and 
brown  in  the  butter.  Add  the  tomatoes  that  have  been 


66    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

peeled,  also  the  ham  that  has  been  cut  in  dice.  Season  highly. 
Cook  for  an  hour,  strain  and  heat. 

The  sauce  may  be  thickened  with  a  teaspoon  of  arrow- 
root. 

CURRY  SAUCE 

{East  Indian  Dish) 

I  tablespoon  butter  i  tablespoon  Chutney  sauce 

I  onion,  cut  fine  i  cup  stock 

I  tablespoon  curry  powder 

Brown  butter;  add  onion  and  Chutney  sauce;  cook  thor- 
oughly before  adding  stock  and  curry,  as  well  as  afterward. 
In  the  curry  sauce  heat  up  cooked  eggs  or  meat  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Serve  with  cooked  rice. 

CAPER  SAUCE 

1/3  cup  butter  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour     1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

1  1/2  cup  hot  water 

Melt  one  half  the  butter,  add  flour  with  seasonings,  and 
pour  hot  water  on  gradually.  Boil  5  minutes,  and  add  re- 
maining butter  in  small  pieces.  Add  one  half  cup  capers 
drained  from  their  liquor. 

DRESSING  FOR  TURKEY 

2  parts  of  bread  crumbs  1  part  of  citron 
1  part  of  raisins  Butter 

1  part  of  currants  Salt 

DRESSING  FOR  WILD  GAME 

Fill  with  sour  apples  cut  in  quarters. 
Remove  these  apples  when  game  is  cooked,  and  fill  with 
fresh  fruit,  oranges,  and  apples. 


MEAT  67 

SWEETBREADS,  BRAINS,  OR  ROE 

Sweetbreads  and  brains 

Wash  and  soak  in  cold  water  1  hour.  Simmer  in  salted, 
acidulated  water  20  minutes  (1  quart  water,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
I  tablespoon  vinegar). 

To  water  for  brains  may  be  added : 

1  slice  onion  1  bay  leaf 

2  peppercorns  1  sprig  of  thyme  (1  teaspoon) 

Put  into  cold  water;  let  stand  until  cool.  Free  it  from 
membrane,  etc. 

Shad  or  other  roe 
Wash  in  cold  water.  Be  careful  not  to  break  membrane 
that  encloses  eggs.  If  broken  wrap  in  cheesecloth  before 
cooking. 

Simmer  in  salted,  acidulated  water  20  minutes. 
To  water  may  be  added : 

1  slice  onion  1  bay  leaf 

Each  may  be  diced  and  served  in  a  chafing-dish. 

(2  cups  diced  material  to  1  to  1  1/2  cups  sauce) 
Creamed 

First  marinate  material  1  hour  or  longer  in  lemon  juice, 
onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper 
A  la  Poulette. 

With  Bechamel  sauce  made  of  equal  parts  cream  and 
seasoned  stock. 
A  la  Newburg 

Sauce  made  of  3  yolks  of  eggs,  1/3  teaspoon  salt,  cay- 
enne, 3/4  cup  sherry,  and  1  cup  cream. 
Deviled  (especially  brains) 

Marinate  3  brains  with  3  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 
Make  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  1/2  teaspoon  salt,  3/4  cup  milk  and  water  from 
cooking  brains,  add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  beaten  eggt 


68    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  brains  cut  up;  stir  lightly  to  heat  brains,  serve  on 
saltines. 
Scrambled  (especially  brains) 

Beat  4  eggs,  add  2/3  teaspoon  salt,  pepper,  1/2  cup 
milk,  and  brains  (one  or  two).  Put  into  blazer  2  table- 
spoons butter  and  add  mixture,  stir  constantly  until  jelly- 
like. Serve  at  once  on  toast  or  crackers. 

Omelet 

2  brains  or  1  pair  roe  or  sweetbreads 
6  eggs,  1/3  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper 

Add  material  and  seasoning  to  beaten  yolks,  cut  and 
fold  into  beaten  whites,  put  into  buttered  pan.  When 
brown  underneath  put  in  oven  to  set  on  top,  spread  with 
currant  jelly;  fold  and  serve  at  once. 
Broiled  (especially  shad  roe) 

Marinate  in  equal  parts  oil  and  lemon  juice  and  salt 
I  hour  before  cooking.  Broil  10  minutes,  baste  with  butter, 
serve  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter ;  garnish  with  lemon  points. 

Salad 

Marinate  1  hour  in  French  dressing  and  onion  juice ;  drain 
from  marinade ;  add  an  equal  amount  of  cucumbers  cut  in 
cubes  and  mayonnaise  to  moisten;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 
En  casserole  Maryland  style  (especially  roe) 

Place  2  or  3  shad  roe  in  buttered  casserole ;  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  half  cover  with  broth,  add  2  table- 
spoons butter  in  bits.  Cover  dish  and  cook  in  oven  15 
minutes.  Keep  roe  hot  while  broth  is  removed  to  another 
dish  and  reduced  to  1  cup  or  less. 

Beat  3  yolks  of  egg 

Add  1  cup  thin  cream 

Stir  slowly  into  hot  sauce;  cook  over  hot  water  until 
slightly  thick.  Add  2  tablespoons  butter ;  salt  and  pepper 
if  required,  and  pour  over  roe.  Garnish  with  thin  slices  of 
bacon  and  serve. 


CHAPTER  VI 

FISH 

Of  all  the  foods  that  can  be  served  in  place  of  meat, 
fish  is  the  one  most  commonly  used.  It  is  more  eco- 
nomical for  the  nation  at  large  to  use  fish  as  a  food 
than  to  use  meat,  because  the  food  used  by  the  fish  is 
not  available  for  man,  whereas  the  grain  fed  to  ani- 
mals might  be  directly  used  for  human  food.  The 
United  States  is  far  behind  European  countries  in  the 
consumption  of  fish.  Here  the  average  amount  used  is 
only  eighteen  pounds  per  person  per  year,  whereas  the 
British  use  fifty-eight  pounds  and  the  peoples  on  the 
Continent  use  a  hundred  pounds.  There  is  plenty 
available  in  the  United  States  if  only  housekeepers 
would  make  use  of  the  information  concerning  new 
varieties  spread  by  the  Bureau  of  Fisheries  and  by  the 
different  State  colleges. 

Fish  contains  practically  the  same  amount  of  protein 
material  that  is  found  in  meat  with  about  the  same 
amount  of  phosphorus,  twice  as  much  calcium,  and  a 
third  as  much  iron.  It  is  as  easily  digested  as  meat,  and 
has  the  advantage  over  meat  of  being  free  from  the 
extractives  which  make  red  meats  stimulating  to  the 
nerves. 

The  actual  value  of  fish  as  a  source  of  energy  de- 
pends upon  the  quantity  of  fat  which  it  contains.  This 

is  a  means  of  classifying  fish.  We  have  two  ~  r  ~  . 

,  „  ,     ,  .  ,    .      ,        ,    „     Groups  of  fish 

large  groups,  the  first  of  which  is  the  shell- 
fish comprising  molluscs,  —  such  as  oysters  and  clams, 


70    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

—  and  crustaceans  —  lobsters,  crabs,  and  shrimps.  The 
members  of  this  entire  group  are  not  considered  when 
we  speak  of  fish  as  a  meat  substitute  because  they 
fall  into  the  class  of  food  luxuries,  since  their  value 
as  food  is  not  proportionate  to  their  cost.  The  waste 
is  great.  For  instance,  in  buying  lobster  at  forty  cents 
a  pound,  as  it  is  usual  to  get  only  half  a  pound  of 
meat  from  a  pound  of  lobster,  we  are  actually  paying 
at  the  rate  of  eighty  cents  a  pound  for  what  we  eat. 
The  second  group  of  fish  is  the  vertebrate;  that  is, 
those  fish  having  a  bony  structure.  Here  again  we  have 
two  subdivisions:  the  first  is  composed  of  all  of  the 
white  fish  —  cod,  haddock,  halibut,  trout,  flounder, 
smelt,  and  so  forth.  These  have  no  fat  in  their  flesh,  as 
it  is  entirely  contained  in  the  liver.  The  other  subdivi- 
sion is  made  up  of  those  fish  that  have  fat  in  the  flesh, 
such  as  mackerel,  salmon,  shad,  swordfish,  and  eels. 
As  a  source  of  energy,  in  consequence,  the  fish  of  this 
second  group  are  equal  to  an  equal  weight  of  meat, 
whereas  those  of  the  first  group  are  slightly  inferior. 

It  is  never  wise  to  order  fish  over  the  telephone,  for 
fish  must  be  fresh  in  order  to  be  good,  and  it  is  hardly 
possible  to  know  what  fish  is  the  freshest 
on  the  market  that  morning  unless  we  see 
for  ourselves.  If  we  ask  for  a  special  kind  of  fish,  the 
fish  dealer  would  undoubtedly  have  it,  but  would  take 
it  from  his  cold-storage  room  when  a  fresh  shipment  of 
another  kind  might  have  just  come  in.  It  is  possible  to 
tell  whether  a  fish  is  fresh  by  its  appearance.  The  flesh 
should  be  firm  and  not  easily  dented  by  the  finger,  the 
eyes  should  be  full  and  bright,  the  fins  should  be  stiff 
and  not  flabby.  Halibut  is  opalescent  when  fresh,  and 
dull  and  opaque  when  old. 


FISH  71 

PRESERVING  OF  FISH 

Because  fish  deteriorates  rapidly  on  account  of  the 
soft  character  of  its  flesh,  there  are  several  ways  of 
preserving  it.  The  first  of  these  is  by  cold 
storage.  Fish  may  be  frozen  solidly  either 
by  the  separate  piece  as  is  done  for  large  fish,  or  in  a 
mass  when  the  fish  are  small.  They  are  then  kept  in  cold 
storage  for  a  long  time.  It  has  been  proven  that  a  fish 
frozen  for  two  years  has  not  undergone  any  chemical 
changes.  Pains  must  be  taken,  however,  when  buying 
frozen  fish,  to  have  it  delivered  still  frozen,  as  all  fro- 
zen flesh  deteriorates  more  rapidly  after  thawing  than 
when  fresh. 

Another  method  of  preserving  fish  is  by  salting  and 
drying.  This  is  one  of  New  England's  great  industries, 
and  the  salt  codfish  from  Gloucester  is  . 
well  known  all  over  the  country.  The  cod 
are  brought  in  by  the  fishing  boats  in  hogsheads  of 
brine.  They  are  carefully  cleaned  and  spread  on  racks 
in  the  sun  to  dry.  The  length  of  time  for  drying  and 
the  manner  of  cutting  the  fish  depend  upon  the  prod- 
uct desired.  The  fish  that  is  sold  in  bulk  is  allowed  to 
become  thoroughly  dry,  whereas  the  fish  packed  in 
boxes  is  sometimes  quite  moist.  Finnan  haddie  is  a 
haddock  salted  and  smoked  to  preserve  it. 

Another  means  of  preserving  fish  is  by  canning.  This 

is  done  in  two  ways.  An  example  of  the  first  method  is 

the  great  salmon  industry  of  our  North-  „ 

«  itt  Canning 

western   States,    where   the   salmon   are 

caught  in  great  quantities,  cleaned  and  cut  in  suitable 

sizes,  packed  according  to  grade,  and  sterilized  in  the 

cans.  The  label  on  the  can  tells  specifically  what  is  in- 


72     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

side.  The  other  manner  of  canning  is  used  in  the  sar- 
dine industry,  where  the  small  fish  are  pickled,  steamed, 
and  packed  in  oil  in  the  cans,  the  oil  acting  as  a  pre- 
servative. The  oil  used  for  this  purpose  in  France  has 
been  olive  oil,  but  other  kinds  of  vegetable  oils  are  now 
used  almost  exclusively  because  of  the  expense. 

CARE  OF  FISH 

When  fish  comes  from  the  market,  it  should  be  re- 
moved from  the  paper  in  which  it  is  wrapped  and 
placed  on  a  plate  before  it  is  put  into  the  refrigerator. 
If  it  is  left  in  the  paper,  the  juices  are  absorbed  by  the 
paper.  Before  it  is  used,  care  should  be  taken  to  see 
that  all  the  scales  are  removed.  These  can  be  scraped 
off  with  the  back  of  a  knife  beginning  at  the  tail.  The 
fish  should  also  be  carefully  washed  by  wiping  it  with  a 
clean  piece  of  cheesecloth  wrung  out  from  slightly  salted 
water.  The  fish  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand  in  water. 

Like  all  protein  food,  fish  becomes  tough  and  leath- 
ery if  it  is  subjected  to  high  temperature  in  cooking.  If 
it  is  boiled,  the  water  must  be  boiling  vigorously  before 
the  piece  of  fish  is  dropped  in.  This  sears  the  outside  of 
the  fish  and  helps  to  prevent  the  loss  of  juices.  A  table- 
spoon of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice  added  to  the  water  will 
also  help  in  the  searing  process.  Boiling  at  best  is  a 
wasteful  way  of  cooking  fish,  as  much  of  the  juices  of 
the  fish  are  lost  in  the  water.  It  should  be  used  only 
when  the  piece  of  fish  to  be  cooked  is  a  compact  one 
like  a  solid  chunk  of  salmon  or  halibut.  If  the  fish  is 
baked,  the  oven  should  not  be  hot  enough  to  dry  out 
the  fish.  White  fish  that  are  lacking  in  fat,  such  as  cod 
and  haddock,  are  improved  on  baking  by  the  addition 
of  salt  pork. 


FISH  73 

If  the  fish  is  split,  or  is  a  small  one,  broiling  is  an 
economical  way  of  cooking  it. 

FISH  RECIPES 

BAKED  FISH 

(For  4-pound  fish) 

I  cup  cracker  crumbs  or  i  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

bread  crumbs  I  teaspoon  capers 

I  saltspoon  salt  I  teaspoon  pickles 

i  saltspoon  pepper  1/4  cup  butter  (melted) 

1  teaspoon  chopped  onions 

Clean  the  fish  and  wipe  thoroughly,  outside  and  in,  with 
cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Make  a  stuffing  of  above 
ingredients.  Put  the  stuffing  in  the  cavity  and  sew  up  the 
opening.  Rub  the  fish  thoroughly  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
butter  on  both  sides.  Cut  gashes  across  the  sides  of  the  fish 
about  2  inches  apart ;  in  these  put  tiny  strips  of  fat  salt  pork. 
Skewer  the  fish  in  the  shape  of  the  letter  S,  and  dredge  thor- 
oughly with  flour.  Put  on  cheesecloth  in  baking-pan  with 
pieces  of  pork  placed  over  back  and  sides  and  bake  about 
15  minutes  to  the  pound  of  fish,  basting  frequently  with  the 
melted  pork.  (Butter  cheesecloth,  or  bottom  of  pan  where 
double-roaster  is  used.  Put  bread  crusts  between  fish  and 
sides  of  pan  to  prevent  sticking.)  When  nicely  browned, 
serve  on  platter  with  garnitures  of  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon  and  hard-boiled  egg. 

BAKED  HALIBUT  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

2  pounds  halibut  1/2  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cups  tomatoes  3  tablespoons  butter 
I  cup  water  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  onion  3/4  teaspoon  salt 

3  cloves  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

Cook  tomatoes,  water,  onion,  cloves,  and  sugar  20  min- 
utes. Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  stir  into  hot  mixture.  Add 


74     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

salt  and  pepper,  cook  10  minutes,  and  strain.  Clean  fish, 
wipe,  put  into  baking-pan,  pour  around  half  the  sauce,  and 
bake  35  minutes,  basting  often.  Remove  to  hot  platter,  pour 
around  remaining  sauce,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

HADDOCK  BAKED  IN  CHEESE  SAUCE 

I  tablespoon  butter  or  other  fat  I  /2  teaspoon  mustard 

I  tablespoon  flour  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

I  cup  milk  1  cup  grated  cheese 
I  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  the  butter;  add  the  flour  and  seasonings;  stir  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Add  gradually  the  milk,  then  the  cheese. 
Cook  until  smooth.  Pour  sauce  over  3  pounds  of  haddock, 
boned  and  cut  in  fillets  and  placed  in  a  baking-dish.  Bake 
3/4  hour.  Boned  haddock  is  called  scrod. 

TO  COOK  SCROD 

Soak  1/2  hour  in  a  pickle  of  2  tablespoons  each  of  salt 
and  sugar.  Place  in  pan  1  cup  of  milk  and  cover  with  dots  of 
butter  and  1  small  onion  chopped  fine.  Bake  about  25  min- 
utes. Baste  frequently. 

FILLETS  OF  FISH,  STUFFED  WITH  OYSTERS 

3  or  4  pounds  fresh  cod 
I  pint  oysters 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  mixed  with 
1/3  cup  melted  butter 
1  egg>  beaten 
Lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper 

Remove  head  and  skin  from  the  fish;  free  the  flesh  from 
the  bones.  Season  fillets  thus  produced  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  brush  with  lemon  juice.  Lay  one  of  the  seasoned  fillets 
on  a  well-greased  fish-sheet.  Cover  with  oysters  dipped  in 
the  buttered  crumbs  one  by  one.  Lay  the  other  fillet  over 


FISH  75 

these,  brush  with  the  beaten  egg  diluted  with  a  little  milk, 
cover  thickly  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  about  I  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

HADDOCK  A  LA  NEWTON 

I  haddock 

I  tablespoon  flour 

I  tablespoon  potato  flour 

I  egg 
1/2  cup  butter  or  other  fat 

Milk  or  cream  enough  to  form  a  mold 

Take  the  haddock  from  the  bone  and  grind  fine  (not 
cooked).  Mix  the  fish  with  the  cream  or  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  a  little  mace.  Add  egg  well  beaten.  Mix  well  together 
with  a  potato  masher.  Place  in  a  tin  baking-pan  or  mold, 
and  bake  1  hour  with  the  pan  containing  the  mixture  stand- 
ing in  a  pan  of  water.  Serve  with  white  sauce. 

MOLDED  HALIBUT 

I  pound  halibut,  uncooked 

1  pint  stale  bread  crumbs  (pulled  from  center  of  loaf) 
1  cup  cream 
I  teaspoon  salt 
1/4  teaspoon  celery  salt 
Whites  of  4  eggs 

Chop  the  fish  very  fine.  Cook  the  bread  crumbs  with  the 
cream  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add  this  to  the  fish  with  the  sea- 
sonings. Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  fold  into 
the  fish  mixture.  Bake  in  a  tin  mold  well  greased.  Place  this 
in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  until  firm  —  about  1/2  or  3/4 
hour. 

Sauce 

Blanch  1/4  pound  almonds,  cut  fine,  and  brown  in  2 
tablespoons  of  butter.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  pepper 


76    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  salt,  and  pour  I  pint  of  cream  in  gradually.  Stir  until 
thick  and  smooth. 

KEDGEREE 

(East  Indian  dish) 

I  cup  cooked  and  flaked  fish  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

1  cup  cooked  rice  1  egg,  or  none 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1/16  teaspoon  pepper  1  tablespoon  minced  parsley 

Mix  ingredients,  pack  into  a  buttered  bowl,  and  surround 
with  hot  water.  Poach  until  heated  through.  Unmold,  gar- 
nish with  parsley,  and  serve. 

SALMON  TIMBALE  OR  LOAF 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

I  tablespoon  salmon,  flaked  I  cup 

I  tablespoon  crumbs  I  cup 

1/4  teaspoon  parsley,  minced  1  rounding  tablespoon 

Salt  1/2  teaspoon 

Pepper  1/16  teaspoon 

1  teaspoon  beaten  eggt  or  none       2  eggs 

1/4  teaspoon  lemon  juice  1  tablespoon 

2  teaspoons  milk  1/4  to  1/2  cup 

Mix  thoroughly,  adding  milk  enough  to  moisten.  Put  into 
buttered  timbale  molds  or  one  bowl ;  set  dishes  in  hot  water 
in  a  moderate  oven,  or  on  back  of  stove,  until  food  is  heated 
through.  Turn  out  and  serve  with  white  sauce  to  which 
minced  parsley  is  added  at  last.  Other  fish  may  be  used 
instead  of  salmon. 

SCALLOPED  FISH 

1  cup  flaked  fish  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs        1/16  teaspoon  pepper 
1  cup  milk  1  to  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix,  put  in  buttered  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  to  40  minutes. 


FISH  77 

SHRIMP  WIGGLE 

I  cup  boiled  rice  I  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  cup  cream  Paprika  to  taste 

2  tablespoons  tomato  catsup  I  can  shrimps 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  the  rice  in  the  cream  until  it  becomes  smooth,  add- 
ing more  cream  if  necessary.  Add  flavorings.  Stir  in  the 
shrimps. 

Cut-up  lobster,  cold  salmon,  chicken,  or  ham  may  be  used 
in  place  of  the  shrimps. 

FISH  CHOWDER 

Home  recipe  Individual 

2  pounds  haddock  or  cod  1/4  pound 
Slice  pork  I  inch 

1/2  onion  Slice 

4  potatoes  1/2  potato 

3  pints  cold  water  1/2  cup 
I  pint  hot  milk  1/2  cup 

6  crackers  1  cracker 

I  1/2  teaspoons  salt  1/4  teaspoon 
Pepper  to  taste  To  taste 

Have  head,  skin,  and  bones  removed  from  fish  at  market, 
and  take  home  with  fish.  Cut  fish  in  i-inch  pieces.  Put  head, 
skin,  and  bones  in  kettle  with  cold  water,  allow  them  to  come 
slowly  to  boiling  point  and  then  simmer  for  one  half  hour. 
Strain  this  water  and  return  it  to  kettle,  throwing  away 
head,  bones,  and  skin.  Cut  pork  in  small  pieces,  put  in  frying- 
pan  and  fry  until  brown  with  onion  cut  small.  Strain  fat 
into  kettle,  add  potatoes  which  have  been  pared,  washed,  and 
cut  in  1/4-inch  slices.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  nearly  soft. 
Add  fish.  Do  not  break  fish  by  stirring.  Add  hot  milk,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Put  crackers  in  a  soup-dish  and  soften  with  a 
little  cold  milk  before  pouring  on  hot  chowder.  Serve  at  once. 


78    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

SALT  CODFISH  HASH 

Home  recipe  Individual 

1  cup  codfish  1/4  cup 

2  cups  potato  cubes  1/2  cup 

1  egg  1  teaspoon 

I  to  2  tablespoons  butter  3/4  to  1  teaspoon 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  To  taste 

Cook  fish  and  potatoes  together  until  potatoes  are  tender. 
Drain  thoroughly.  Mash.  Add  butter,  salt,  and  egg  well 
beaten.  Beat  mixture  3  minutes  with  a  fork.  Try  out  1  table- 
spoon salt  pork  cubes.  Heat  iron  frying-pan,  add  1  teaspoon 
salt  pork  fat.  Pour  in  the  hash,  spread  evenly,  and  cook 
slowly  until  a  golden  brown  underneath,  replenishing  with 
more  fat  as  needed.  Fold  like  an  omelet  and  pour  tomato 
sauce  around  it.  If  moister  hash  is  desired,  more  butter  or 
1/4  cup  milk  or  cream  may  be  added. 

If  codfish  is  too  salty  it  should  be  washed  and  soaked 
before  using. 

Tomato  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat         Pepper 
2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  stewed  and 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  strained  tomato 

Melt  the  fat  in  a  saucepan.  Stir  the  flour  into  it  until  it  is 
smooth.  Add  the  tomato,  stirring  constantly  until  it  boils 
vigorously. 

POTATO  SHREDDED  FISH  SOUFFLE 

1  box  "shredded  fish"         3  cups  mashed  potato 

2  eggs  Pepper 
Salt 

Put  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  potato  "ricer  " ;  add  butter 
and  boiling  milk  and  salt ;  beat  until  very  light  and  creamy 
and  soft;  add  eggs,  beaten,  and  fish  which  has  been  soaked 
in  cold  water  and  squeezed  dry,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


FISH  79 

Put  in  baking-dish  with  butter  on  top  and  bake  about  20 
minutes,  until  light  brown.  Serve  at  once. 

CODFISH  BALLS 

1  cup  salt  codfish  1  /2  tablespoon  butter 

2  heaping  cups  potatoes  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 
I  egg 

Wash  fish  in  cold  water,  and  pick  in  very  small  pieces. 
Wash,  pare,  and  soak  potatoes,  cutting  in  pieces  of  uniform 
size  before  measuring.  Cook  fish  and  potatoes  in  boiling 
water  to  cover  until  potatoes  are  soft.  Drain  through  strainer, 
return  to  kettle  in  which  they  were  cooked,  mash  thoroughly; 
add  butter,  egg  well  beaten,  and  salt,  if  necessary.  Beat  with 
fork  two  minutes.  Take  up  by  spoonfuls,  put  in  frying 
basket,  and  fry  one  minute  in  deep  fat,  allowing  six  fish  balls 
for  each  frying;  drain  on  brown  paper.  Reheat  the  fat  after 
last  frying.  If  preferred  the  fish  may  be  formed  into  cro- 
quettes. 

FISH  A  LA  CREME 

I  3/4  cups  cold  flaked  fish  1/2  slice  onion 

1  cup  white  sauce  Salt  and  pepper 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  1/2  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 

Scald  milk  for  making  of  white  sauce,  with  bay  leaf,  pars- 
ley, and  onion.  Cover  the  bottom  of  small  buttered  platter 
with  one  half  of  the  fish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  over  one  half  the  sauce;  repeat.  Cover  with  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown.  If  preferred, 
bake  in  scallop  shells. 

SCOTTISH  FINNAN  HADDIE 

2  pounds  finnan  haddie  I  tablespoon  flour 

1  tablespoon  butter  1/2  cup  cold  water 

I  pint  hot  milk  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 

Paprika,     salt,    and  1/4  pound  cheese,  chopped  or 

pepper  to  taste  grated 
1  egg 


80     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Select  a  good  finnan  haddie.  Cut  it  into  small  pieces  and 
put  it  in  a  small  saucepan,  covering  with  cold  water.  Place 
it  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come  slowly  to  the  boiling  point. 
Just  as  it  begins  to  boil  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  stand 
in  the  water  until  it  is  almost  cold. 

Drain  off  the  water,  separate  the  fish  into  small  bits,  and 
place  in  a  frying-pan  containing  the  butter  melted.  Fry  or 
saut£  for  four  or  five  minutes;  then  add  the  hot  milk,  season, 
and  let  cook  for  five  minutes  longer. 

Blend  thoroughly  the  raw  egg,  flour,  and  cold  water  in  a 
small  bowl.  Stir  this  mixture  into  the  frying-pan  with  the 
finnan  haddie  and  cook  slowly  until  thickened.  Just  before 
removing  from  the  stove  add  the  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
cheese.  Cover  slices  of  toasted  bread  with  the  mixture  and 
serve  with  a  salad. 

SAVORY  FINNAN  HADDIE 

1  cup  finnan  haddie,  flaked  I  cup  rich  milk 
I  1/2  cups  small  potato  balls                2  egg  yolks 

2-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork  Salt  and  pepper  to 

2  tablespoons  flour  taste 

Soak  a  finnan  haddie  in  milk  1  hour,  then  cook  until  ten- 
der, and  separate  into  flakes.  Cut  the  salt  pork  into  tiny  dice 
and  try  out.  To  2  tablespoons  of  the  fat  add  the  flour  and 
milk.  When  thick  and  smooth,  season  to  taste,  add  the  pork 
scraps,  egg  yolks,  finnan  haddie  flakes,  and  potato  balls 
which  have  been  cooked  until  soft. 

FINNAN  HADDIE 

2  cups  finnan  haddie,  flaked  1  teaspoon  salt 

1/4  cup  butter  1/3  teaspoon  paprika 

I  tablespoon  onion  1/3  cup  canned  pimentos 
1/4  cup  flour  Cooked  macaroni 

1  1/2  cups  milk  Grated  cheese 


FISH  81 

Soak  a  finnan  haddie  in  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water  for 
I  hour  (enough  to  cover).  Drain,  rinse  thoroughly,  and  sepa- 
rate into  flakes  to  make  2  cups.  Cook  butter  and  onion  for 
5  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  add  flour,  milk,  and  season- 
ings. When  mixture  thickens  add  flaked  fish  and  pimentos 
cut  in  strips.  Cover  a  shallow  baking-dish  or  platter  with 
cooked  macaroni.  Pour  the  fish  over  it,  sprinkle  with  grated 
cheese,  and  brown  in  oven  15  minutes.  Place  it  under  the 
gas  flame  if  it  is  not  brown  enough. 

CLAM  BROTH 

Use  12  large  hard-shelled  clams  for  1  pint  of  broth.  Boil 
the  clams  and  juice  for  20  minutes;  strain  and  let  stand  to 
settle;  strain  again  carefully  into  a  saucepan,  and  let  broth 
boil  up  once.  Season  with  butter  and  pepper  —  no  salt  — - 
and  serve  in  cups  with  whipped  cream  on  top. 

To  open  the  clams  and  obtain  the  juice,  place  the  clams, 
after  they  have  been  carefully  washed  with  a  brush  and 
clear  water,  in  a  saucepan  and  let  them  steam  until  the 
shells  open ;  then  strain  off  the  liquor. 

CLAM  CHOWDER 

I  quart  clams  1  tablespoon  salt 

4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  3/4  inch  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 
diameter  4  tablespoons  butter 

I  1/2-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork  4  cups  scalded  milk 

1  sliced  onion  8  common  crackers 

Clean  and  pick  over  clams,  using  1  cup  cold  water;  drain, 
reserve  liquor,  heat  to  boiling  point  and  strain.  Chop  fine 
hard  part  of  clams,  cut  pork  in  small  pieces  and  try  out; 
add  onion,  fry  6  minutes  and  strain  into  a  stewpan.  Parboil 
potatoes  5  minutes  in  boiling  water  to  cover ;  drain  and  put 
a  layer  in  bottom  of  stewpan,  add  chopped  clams,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  dredge  generously  with  flour.  Add 
remaining  potatoes,  again  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 


82     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

dredge  with  flour,  and  add  21/2  cups  boiling  water.  Cook 
10  minutes,  add  milk,  soft  part  of  clams  and  butter;  boil  3 
minutes;  and  add  crackers  split  and  soaked  in  enough  milk 
to  moisten.  Reheat  clam  water  to  boiling  point,  and  thicken 
with  1  tablespoon  butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Add  to 
chowder  just  before  serving. 

The  clam  water  has  a  tendency  to  cause  the  milk  to  sepa- 
rate, hence  is  added  at  the  last. 

OYSTERS  —  FANCY  ROAST 

Clean  1  pint  oysters  and  drain  from  their  liquor.  Put  in 
a  blazer  and  plump.  Shake  pan  or  stir  with  fork.  Add  salt, 
pepper,  and  2  tablespoons  butter;  pour  over  4  or  6  small 
slices  of  toast ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

PANNED  OYSTERS 

With  fork  pressed  into  a  butter  ball  rub  over  the  bottom 
of  hot  blazer.  Cover  surface  of  pan  with  rounds  of  toast,  and 
put  one  or  two  uncooked  oysters  on  each  round.  Cover  and 
cook  till  plump ;  on  each  oyster  put  salt,  pepper,  and  a  bit  of 
butter.  When  butter  has  melted  serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

OYSTER  CANAPES 

Scald  a  cup  of  cream,  add  2  tablespoons  of  fine  bread 
crumbs,  I  tablespoon  butter,  a  dash  of  paprika,  and  grating 
of  nutmeg.  Then  add  2  dozen  oysters  washed,  drained,  and 
chopped.  Stir  until  oysters  are  thoroughly  heated,  but  do  not 
let  mixture  boil.  Spread  rounds  of  toast  with  butter,  then 
with  the  oyster  mixture.  Serve  at  once  with  olives,  pimolas, 
or  gherkins. 

FRIED  OYSTERS 

Clean,  and  dry  between  towels,  selected  oysters.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper;  roll  in  stale  bread  crumbs  or  cracker 
crumbs,  then  in  egg  beaten  slightly  and  diluted  with  a  little 


FISH  83 

cold  water;  then  again  in  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain 
on  brown  paper  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin.  Garnish  with 
parsley  and  serve  with  or  without  sauce  tyrolienne. 

SAUTED  OYSTERS 

Clean  I  pint  oysters;  dry  between  towels,  and  sprinkle  on 
both  sides  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  up  by  the  tough 
muscle  with  plated  fork  and  dip  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
or  prepare  as  in  fried  oysters.  Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in 
hot  frying-pan;  add  oysters;  brown  on  one  side;  then  turn 
and  brown  on  the  other.  Serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

JELLIED  OYSTERS 

Drain  all  the  liquor  from  medium-sized  oysters,  and  to  it 
add  lemon,  tarragon,  paprika,  whole  cloves,  and  sticks  of 
mace.  Heat  and  pour  it  over  just  enough  gelatine  to  make  it 
firm.  Put  a  layer  of  this  liquor  in  a  large  square  mold,  and 
as  it  hardens  add  a  layer  of  oysters  arranged  symmetrically, 
and  pour  over  more  of  the  liquor.  As  this  hardens,  put  the 
next  layer  of  oysters  directly  over  the  first.  Chill,  cut  in 
squares  like  boxes,  and  serve  on  paper  doilies,  garnished  with 
parsley. 

SCALLOPS  (No.  1) 

Dry  the  scallops.  Roll  them  in  crumbs  and  then  beaten 
egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Put  a  few  in  the  frying-basket. 
Fry  in  deep  fat.  Mix  salt  and  pepper  with  the  crumbs. 

SCALLOPS  (No.  2) 

Cover  the  scallops  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  3  minutes. 
Drain,  and  dry  with  a  towel.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs.  Fry  in  deep  fat. 

STEWED  SCALLOPS 

Wash  the  scallops  in  cold  water;  then  drain  them.  Put  one 
pint  of  milk  on  to  boil.  Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  pan 


84     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER  ' 

over  the  fire.  When  melted  add  2  tablespoons  flour  and 
stir  till  smooth.  Add  this  to  the  hot  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly. When  boiling  add  the  scallops.  Cook  3  minutes. 
Add  salt  and  pepper. 

FRIED  SMELTS 

Smelts,  after  being  washed,  dried,  and  sprinkled  with 
salt  and  pepper,  are  dipped  into  milk,  then  rolled  in  flour. 
The  head  and  tail  are  pinned  together  with  a  small  skewer, 
or  wooden  toothpick  (to  be  removed  after  they  are  fried), 
making  them  into  rings.  This  is  a  pretty  way  for  serving  the 
smelts,  either  by  themselves  or  for  garnishing  other  fish 
dishes.  Cook  only  as  many  as  will  cover  the  bottom  of  the 
frying-basket  at  one  time.  Dress  the  smelts  on  a  folded  nap- 
kin, and  serve  with  mayonnaise  or  with  tartare  sauce. 

BAKED  SMELTS 

Clean  and  wash  the  smelts.  Wipe  them  dry,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Dip  in  melted  butter  and  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  them  on  a  buttered  baking-pan,  and  bake  15  min- 
utes in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with  Bearnaise  sauce. 

WHITEBAIT 

Wash  the  whitebait  and  dry  thoroughly  with  a  towel. 
Roll  them  in  flour.  Having  quite  a  thick  coating,  toss  them 
in  a  sieve  to  shake  off  the  loose  flour.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the 
wire  frying-basket  with  the  fish.  Put  immediately  into  the 
hot  fat.  Remove  when  a  golden  brown.  Turn  them  on  a 
paper,  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 


CHAPTER  VII 

OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES:  CHEESE  AND 
LEGUMES 

The  foods  already  spoken  of  which  can  be  used  in 
place  of  meat,  milk  and  fish,  both  belong  to  the  same 
group  of  foods  as  meat  itself.  The  others  —  those  to  be 
discussed  in  this  chapter — are  connecting  links  be- 
tween the  protein  group  of  foods  and  the  other  groups. 
Cheese  with  its  large  fat  content  might  readily  be 
called  a  fat  food  as  well  as  a  protein  one,  and  the  leg- 
umes or  pulses  (which  are  the  dried  peas,  beans,  and 
lentils)  have  a  high  percentage  of  starch,  and  could  be- 
long either  to  the  foods  characterized  by  their  starch 
content  or  be  considered  with  other  vegetables. 

CHEESE 

Cheese  may  well  be  used  as  a  chief  source  of  nitrog- 
enous food,  since  it  contains  the  valuable  protein  part 
of  milk  together  with  its  mineral  salts.  It  „  .  . 
contains  three  fourths  of  the  total  solids 
in  milk,  which  gives  it  nearly  twice  as  much  protein 
as  an  equal  weight  of  beef  of  the  average  composition 
as  purchased.  With  its  33  per  cent  of  fat,  the  fuel 
value  is  more  than  twice  as  great.  The  composition  of 
cheese  is  easily  remembered  because  it  is  divided  in 
a  general  way  between  protein,  fat,  and  water,  about 
33  per  cent  of  each.  There  are  other  reasons  for  its  im- 
portance in  the  diet ;  it  can  be  kept  and  handled  with 
great  ease  in  the  home,  it  has  an  appetizing  flavor,  and 
it  can  be  served  in  a  great  variety  of  ways. 


86    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Three  fourths  of  the  amount  of  cheese  produced  in 
the  United  States  is  standard  factory  or  American 
cheese,  usually  made  from  whole  cow's 
milk.  The  protein  or  casein  of  the  milk  is 
thrown  out  by  the  action  of  rennet  forming  a  curd.  It 
carries  most  of  the  fat  of  the  milk  with  it.  This  curd  is 
broken  by  knives  and  then  heated  to  differing  degrees. 
The  whey  is  drained  off;  the  curd  salted  and  pressed. 
The  curd  is  then  kept  for  several  weeks  in  a  cool  place 
to  ripen,  or  to  develop  the  flavors  by  means  of  the  ac- 
tion of  bacteria  or  molds.  This  ripening  process  is  the 
chief  cause  of  the  flavors  of  different  cheeses,  although 
of  course  the  variety  of  flavor  also  depends  somewhat 
on  the  type  of  milk  used.  The  soft  cream  cheeses  con- 
tain more  water  than  an  ordinary  factory  cheese,  since 
they  are  not  drained  under  pressure,  nor  are  they  al- 
lowed to  ripen  so  long.  They  are  usually  made  from 
rich  cream  by  souring  or  by  the  action  of  rennet,  and 
after  the  whey  is  drained  off  the  curd  is  salted,  turned 
occasionally,  and  is  ready  for  market  in  five  or  six  days. 

Some  cheeses,  such  as  Roquefort  and  Gorgonzola, 
are  ripened  by  molds  growing  throughout  the  cheese. 
The  tale  is  told  of  the  origin  of  the  Roque- 
fort cheese  that  a  goatherd  one  day  was 
interrupted  while  eating  his  lunch  of  bread  and  cheese, 
and  being  a  thrifty  lad,  put  what  was  left  on  a  ledge  in 
a  near-by  cave.  He  forgot  about  it,  but  when  in  that 
neighborhood  again  some  time  later,  he  looked  to  see 
if  it  was  still  there.  To  his  surprise  he  found  that  in 
place  of  the  ordinary  farm  cheese  which  he  had  left,  he 
had  a  most  delicious  cheese  streaked  with  green  mold. 
He  took  it  back  to  the  village  and  showed  it  with  pride 
to  his  mother  and  the  other  village  women.  For  years 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  87 

after,  the  villagers  put  their  cheese  to  ripen  on  the 
ledges  in  that  cave  and  in  the  neighboring  ones.  They 
found,  however,  that  they  must  also  place  bread  with 
the  cheese  in  order  to  get  the  characteristic  mold. 
Nowadays,  however,  since  the  scientists  have  isolated 
the  various  molds  and  bacteria  for  us,  Roquefort 
cheese,  as  well  as  Swiss  and  Dutch  and  other  varieties, 
can  all  be  turned  out  from  the  same  American  factory. 

The  Dutch  women  are  very  careful  that  no  molds 
shall  be  allowed  to  grow  on  their  cheese,  since  they  de- 
pend entirely  upon  the  bacteria  present  in  the  milk  to 
produce  the  proper  flavor  in  the  ripening  process.  They 
carefully  dust  their  cheeses  every  day  while  ripening 
and  when  they  are  ready  for  market,  they  paint  them 
red  or  give  them  a  coat  of  varnish  to  prevent  any 
molds  from  spoiling  the  flavor. 

A  cheese  like  Camembert  is  ripened  by  bacterial  ac- 
tion on  the  outside  which  gradually  works  in,  softening 
the  cheese. 

Other  hard  cheeses,  such  as  Swiss,  Parmesan,  and 
English  dairy  cheeses,  are  ripened  by  bacteria  and  en- 
zymes, or  unorganized  ferments,  working  on  the  in- 
side. All  these  changes  increase  the  solubility  of  the 
proteins  and  produce  the  peculiar  flavor  of  each  cheese. 

When  we  speak  of  cheese  as  a  meat  substitute,  we 
refer  only  to  that  mild-flavored  cheese  known  as  the 
American  factory  cheese  which  can  be  used  in  large 
quantities.  The  other  cheeses,  which  are  used  in  small 
quantity  primarily  for  their  flavor,  belong  to  the  class 
of  luxuries  that  fall  "in  the  region  of  choice."  They  are 
the  ones  that  are  referred  to  in  the  cynical  remark  that 
"cheese  digests  everything  but  itself,"  since  their 
strong  flavor  is  an  aid  to  digestion. 


88     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Ordinary  cheese  compares  favorably  with  other 
foods  in  the  thoroughness  with  which  it  is  digested  in 
.  the  body;  for  over  ninety  per  cent  of  its 

nutrients  are  available.  It  is  slow  of  diges- 
tion, however,  because  of  the  intimate  combination  of 
fat  and  protein  material.  The  burning  sensation  some- 
times felt  after  eating  cheese  is  due  to  the  presence  of 
free  fatty  acids  in  the  cheese,  that  are  caused  by  over- 
cooking which  decomposes  the  fat.  Another  reason 
why  cheese  may  cause  uncomfortable  sensations  is  due 
to  the  way  in  which  it  is  used.  A  Welsh  rarebit  eaten 
late  in  the  evening  after  three  good  meals  have  already 
been  consumed  may  cause  a  restless  night,  but  the 
cheese  should  not  be  blamed  for  the  nightmare,  since 
the  body  has  already  had  all  the  food  required  for  the 
twenty- four  hours  and  objects  to  the  added  burden 
placed  upon  it  at  that  hour. 

American  cheeses  are  usually  shipped  in  cakes 
of  twenty-six  or  thirty-two  pounds  apiece,  and  are 
Care  in  the  wrapped  in  heavy  canvas.  When  cut  and 
home  delivered  at  the  house,  care  should  be 

taken  that  cheese  does  not  dry  and  that  it  does  not  be- 
come moldy.  It  should  be  wrapped  in  a  slightly  damp 
cloth  and  kept  in  a  cool  place.  Air  should  never  be 
wholly  excluded  from  it,  since  molds  grow  more  read- 
ily in  the  absence  of  air. 

When  planning  a  meal  in  which  cheese  is  to  take  the 
place  of  meat,  great  care  should  be  taken  with  the 
Use  in  the  foods  used  in  combination  with  it.  It  is 
diet  not  well  to  substitute  cheese  for  the  meat 

and  leave  the  rest  of  the  meal  the  same.  The  reason  for 
this  is  that  cheese  is  a  more  concentrated  food  than 
meat,  containing  a  larger  proportion  of  fat  and  protein 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  89 

and  much  less  water.  It  must  be  used  along  with 
watery  foods  like  fruits  and  vegetables.  As  it  is  also 
entirely  lacking  in  any  form  of  carbohydrate,  it  is  well 
combined  with  starchy  dishes,  bread,  rice,  or  macaroni. 
All  cheese  dishes  are  apt  to  be  soft  in  consistency,  so  that 
in  order  to  get  variety  and  increase  the  palatability  of 
the  meal,  it  is  well  to  include  in  the  menu  hard  foods, 
such  as  toast,  crisp  buns,  or  hard  cookies.  A  cheese 
souffle  might  be  accompanied  by  a  baked  potato,  crisp 
cinnamon  buns,  two  green  vegetables,  with  a  fruit 
salad  or  stewed  or  baked  fruit  and  crisp  cookies  for 
dessert. 

LEGUMES  OR  PULSES 

The  pulses,  which  include  all  kinds  of  dried  beans, 
peas,  and  lentils,  have  been  used  as  a  very  valuable 

food  for  many  hundreds  of  years.  They  ■  ,    , 

,  11.  111  Value  as  food 

were  known  and  cultivated  by  the  an- 
cient peoples  of  Egypt,  India,  and  other  countries. 
The  customary  way  of  using  them  was  to  roast  or 
parch  them,  then  grind  them  into  a  flour  which  was 
cooked  in  soup  or  made  into  cakes.  The  soup  tablets 
used  by  mountain-climbers  and  explorers  are  made  on 
a  basis  of  finely  ground  peas,  beans,  and  lentils.  Differ- 
ent varieties  of  these  valuable  foods  grow  in  all  cli- 
mates, and  our  Government  has  stimulated  the  culti- 
vation of  certain  types  especially  valuable  for  food, 
such  as  the  soy  bean  and  the  pinto  bean. 

They  vary  little  in  their  general  composition,  with 
the  exception  of  the  soy  bean  and  the  peanut,  which 
may  be  classed  with  the  beans.  When  they  are 
dried  they  have  very  little  water,  about  10  per  cent. 
They  contain  about  65  per  cent  of  carbohydrate,  22 


90    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

to  25  per  cent  of  protein  material,  about  4  per  cent  of 
mineral  salts,  and  1  per  cent  of  fat.  Their  fuel  value  is 
greater  than  that  of  meat.  Soy  beans  and  peanuts  dif- 
fer from  the  others  in  that  they  contain  a  much  larger 
percentage  of  fat  (16  per  cent  for  soy  beans,  38  per  cent 
for  peanuts),  whereas  their  starch  content  is  corre- 
spondingly low. 

They  are  a  hearty  food,  and  like  cheese  suitable  only 
for  vigorous  people.  The  woody  fiber  which  surrounds 
each  bean,  and  makes  up  the  framework  of  all  vegeta- 
tion, interferes  with  the  absorption  of  the  nutrients 
present.  It  may  also  act  as  a  local  irritant  hastening 
the  food  through  the  digestive  tract.  If  the  starch  has 
not  been  thoroughly  cooked,  it  is  apt  to  ferment  and 
cause  flatulence.  When  the  beans,  however,  are  com- 
bined carefully  with  other  food  materials,  the  work  of 
digestion  is  distributed  and  causes  no  difficulty.  They 
are  extremely  valuable  as  a  source  of  nitrogen  for  men 
and  women  who  are  exercising  vigorously,  lumbermen 
and  day-laborers,  for  instance. 

All  legumes  should  be  soaked  at  least  eight  hours 
before  cooking.  It  is  better  if  a  half  teaspoonful  of  soda 
How  to  use  is  added  to  two  quarts  of  water  for  the 
legumes  soaking  to  help  soften  the  fiber.  They 

should  then  be  boiled  until  thoroughly  tender.  Soft 
water  or  rainwater  should  be  used  for  boiling  if  possi- 
ble ;  since  the  protein  of  the  pulses  tends  to  form  insolu- 
ble compounds  with  the  lime  and  the  magnesium  salts 
found  in  hard  water.  After  the  beans  are  boiled,  they 
can  be  used  in  a  great  variety  of  ways.  The  one  most 
familiar  to  the  New  Englander  is  the  historic  baked 
bean.  Why  should  we  be  bound  by  the  habits  of  our 
ancestors  and  continue  to  have  that  particular  food 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  91 

every  Saturday  night?  When  our  Puritan  grandmoth- 
ers did  all  their  baking  in  a  brick  oven,  it  was  quite 
logical  that  they  should  build  the  fire  in  the  oven  on 
Saturday  in  order  to  have  plenty  of  food  for  over  the 
Sabbath,  since  they  did  no  cooking  whatever  on  the 
Lord's  Day.  Being  thrifty  souls,  they  utilized  every 
particle  of  heat  present  in  the  bricks  of  the  oven.  The 
pies  and  biscuits,  which  required  the  greatest  heat, 
went  in  first,  then  the  cake  and  bread;  and  then,  in 
order  to  utilize  all  the  heat  left  in  the  bricks,  in  went 
the  bean-pot.  Would  it  not  be  more  logical  for  those  of 
us  who  use  coal  ranges  and  do  our  ironing  on  Tuesday 
to  have  our  beans  for  supper  Tuesday  night,  since  we 
could  thus  utilize  the  heat  of  the  oven  and  have  a  very 
simple  supper  to  serve  after  a  fatiguing  day? 

There  are  many  other  ways  of  serving  the  boiled 
legumes  than  as  baked  beans.  They  may  be  mashed 
through  a  strainer  and  the  pulp  thus  obtained  used  as 
a  basis  for  soups,  such  as  the  black  bean,  split  pea,  and 
lentil  soups;  or  this  pulp  or  puree  may  be  well  sea- 
soned, mixed  with  fat,  and  served  as  a  dish  by  itself  of 
about  the  consistency  of  mashed  potato.  The  puree 
could  also  be  used  as  a  stuffing  for  green  peppers  or 
tomatoes ;  or  it  may  be  mixed  with  celery,  pimentos,  a 
little  cheese,  and  baked  in  a  pan  and  served  as  a  roast 
with  a  well-seasoned  gravy.  This  same  puree  makes  a 
good  filling  for  hearty  sandwiches  or  it  may  be  served 
cold  with  greens  as  a  salad. 

It  must  be  noted  that  in  using  this  material  in  place 
of  meat,  it,  like  cheese,  must  be  carefully  combined 
with  the  proper  foods.  Unlike  cheese,  it  contains  a 
large  amount  of  starch  and  has  no  fat,  so  that  in  serv- 
ing, it  is  not  necessary  to  increase  the  amount  of  starch 


92    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

served  with  it  but  it  is  always  well  to  see  that  there  is 
some  fat  in  the  meal  in  some  form  or  other.  This  is 
the  reason  for  serving  salt  pork  with  baked  beans.  It 
is  poor  management  to  serve  a  rice  or  bread  pudding 
as  a  dessert  for  a  supper  made  up  exclusively  of  baked 
beans  and  brown  bread.  Instead,  fruit,  either  cooked 
or  raw,  should  be  used  for  dessert,  and  vegetables,  such 
as  greens  or  tomatoes,  or  salads  which  contain  water 
and  make  up  in  bulk  for  the  concentration  of  the  beans, 
should  be  served  with  them.  Of  course  it  is  not  neces- 
sary to  serve  meat  at  a  meal  in  which  are  used  baked 
beans  or  other  forms  of  the  pulses,  such  as  split-pea 
soup  or  green  peppers  stuffed  with  lentils. 

Attention  should  be  called  to  the  high  food  value  of 
the  humble  peanut.  It  is  rich  in  both  protein  material 
and  fat  and  has  a  far  greater  fuel  value 
than  an  equal  weight  of  beefsteak.  When 
ground  up  into  the  form  of  peanut  butter,  it  makes  an 
economical  and  palatable  substitute  for  both  butter 
and  meat.  A  good  many  people  object  to  the  drying 
quality  of  peanut  butter;  but  if  it  is  used  in  combina- 
tion with  a  sour  jam  or  marmalade  in  fillings  for  sand- 
wiches or  on  toast  or  bread,  this  objection  is  overcome. 
Peanut  butter  when  used  for  breakfast  could  be  sub- 
stituted for  the  usual  egg  and  for  butter  on  the  toast. 

NUTS 

Nuts  vary  considerably  in  their  composition,  but 
are  used  by  vegetarians  as  meat  substitutes.  The 
chestnut  contains  more  starch  than  any  of  the  other 
nuts,  and  has  a  lower  protein  and  fat  content.  Brazil 
nuts  and  pecans  are  particularly  high  in  fat,  while  they 
have  from  12  to  20  per  cent  protein  material.  They  all 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  93 

have,  however,  so  much  woody  fiber  or  cellulose  that 
it  is  difficult  for  the  body  to  obtain  what  nutrients  are 
present  in  the  nuts,  and  unless  they  are  ground  very 
fine,  they  are  difficult  of  digestion.  This  objection  to- 
gether with  their  high  cost  makes  them  a  rather  im- 
practicable substitute  for  meat. 

CHEESE  RECIPES 
WELSH  RAREBIT 

1  pound  full  cream  American  cheese 

2  tablespoons  butter 

1/4  cup  milk  or  1/2  cup  beer  or  ale' 

1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
1/4  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

Dash  of  cayenne 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

If  cheese  is  strong  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten.  1/16 
teaspoonful  soda  may  be  added.  Always  cook  cheese  over 
water.  Melt  butter.  Melt  cheese,  keeping  it  always  in  mo- 
tion, add  liquid  gradually,  then  seasoning;  when  smooth 
and  creamy  serve  on  hot  crackers  or  toast. 

FONDUE 

I  cup  bread  crumbs;  soak  1/2  hour  in 

1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

1  cup  cheese  cut  fine  (1/2  pound) 
1/4  teaspoon  salt 

Speck  of  cayenne 
1/2  egg-yolk 

Cook  over  water.  Melt  butter,  add  cheese,  melt  it,  grad- 
ually add  soaked  bread  crumbs,  then  seasoning;  with  last 
portion  of  bread  crumbs  add  the  egg.  When  smooth  and  hot 
serve  on  toast. 


94     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

2  tablespoons  butter  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 
1  /2  cup  scalded  milk               1  /4  cup  grated  cheese 

3  eggs 

Melt  butter,  add  flour;  when  well  mixed  add  gradually 
scalded  milk.  Then  add  salt,  cayenne,  and  cheese.  Remove 
from  fire;  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  lemon-colored.  Cool 
mixture,  cut  and  fold  in  white  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and 
dry.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  bake  20  minutes 
in  slow  oven.  Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

1  cup  milk  1  /6  teaspoon  mustard 

2  tablespoons  butter     1/4  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  flour  Cayenne 

4  eggs  1  pound  American  cheese 

2  tablespoons  Parmesan  cheese 

Make  a  white  sauce  with  the  flour,  butter,  and  milk.  Stir 
the  cheese  into  the  warm  sauce.  Add  seasonings.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately,  till  stiff.  Cut  and  fold 
into  cooled  cheese  mixture,  yolks  first.  Put  in  greased  baking- 
dish,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven,  standing  in  pan  of  hot 
water. 

BAKED  BREAD  AND  CHEESE 

6  slices  stale  bread  I  pint  milk,  skimmed 

1/4  pound  mild  cheese  Salt,  paprika 

Put  slices  of  bread  in  buttered  baking-dish.  Cover  with 
slices  of  cheese.  Sprinkle  well  with  salt  and  paprika.  Repeat 
until  dish  is  full,  leaving  the  bread  on  the  top.  Pour  in  the 
milk. 

Let  stand  an  hour.  Bake  40  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  at  once. 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  95 

LIMA  BEAN  AND  CHEESE  ROAST 

{Meat  substitute) 

2  cups  cooked  Lima  beans 

1/4  pound  cream  cheese,  commercial  or  home-made 

3  canned  pimentos,  chopped 

1/2  cup  approximately,  bread  crumbs 

Mash  the  beans  through  a  potato  ricer.  Mix  thoroughly 
with  the  chopped  cheese  and  pimentos.  Add  bread  crumbs 
until  it  is  stiff  enough  to  form  into  a  roll.  Brown  in  the  oven, 
basting  occasionally  with  fat  and  water. 

CORN,  TOMATO,  AND  CHEESE 

1  tablespoon  butter  or         2  egg-yolks  or  1  egg,  whole 

other  fat  I  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  grated  cheese         1/2  teaspoon  paprika 

3/4  cup  canned  corn  1  clove  of  garlic  or  onion  juice 

I  ripe  pimento  4  slices  of  bread 

1/2  cup  tomato  puree 

Stir  the  cheese  into  the  melted  fat  until  cheese  is  melted. 
Add  all  other  ingredients  except  the  egg.  Toast  the  bread 
on  one  side  and  rub  the  untoasted  side  lightly  with  garlic  or 
onion.  Stir  the  beaten  egg  into  the  mixture,  cook  for  a  few 
minutes  and  pour  over  the  untoasted  side  of  the  bread. 
Serve  at  once. 

TOASTED  SANDWICH 

2  slices  of  bread  3/8  inch  Hot  fat  or  butter  in  which  to 

thick  toast  sandwich 

1  egg,  beaten  1  layer  cottage  cheese  3/8  inch 

2  slices  of  raw  tomato  thick 

Put  layer  of  cottage  cheese  between  slices  of  bread.  When 
sandwich  is  completed,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  toast  quickly 
in  hot  fat  or  butter.  Cut  diagonally  and  serve  with  a  slice  of 


96    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

raw  tomato  on  each  section.  The  addition  of  pimento,  mixed 
with  the  cheese,  improves  this  dish. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  NUT  LOAF 
Group  i  Group  2 

1  cup  cottage  cheese  1  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

I  /4  cup  peanut  butter         1 1 2  cup  walnut  or  native  nut 

2  tablespoons  melted  meats  cut  not  too  fine 

butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

I  tablespoon  minced         1/2  rounded  teaspoon  sage 
raw  onion  1/2  teaspoon  thyme 

1/4  teaspoon  black  pepper 

In  one  bowl  mix  group  1.  In  another  bowl  mix  group  2. 
Work  contents  of  2  bowls  together,  pack  in  cake  tin  and 
bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  until  top  is  brown.  Serve  with 
mushroom,  tomato,  or  brown  sauce,  or  use  as  sandwich 
filling,  or  sliced  cold. 

CHEESE  FILLING 

1  pint  milk  Butter  size  of  small  egg 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch       2  "Snappy"  cheeses 

or  rice  flour 

Put  milk  and  butter  in  double  boiler,  leaving  out  1  /2  cup 
milk.  Mix  the  latter  with  the  rice  flour.  When  the  milk  is 
hot,  pour  slowly  into  flour  mixture  and  put  back  in  boiler. 
Stir  until  smooth  and  well  cooked,  then  add  2  "  Snappy'* 
cheeses  broken  up  in  pieces,  1  teaspoon  paprika,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  dash  of  cayenne. 

Cool  and  keep  in  glass  jar  in  ice  chest.  This  can  be  used 
for  sandwiches,  or  brush  "Barley  Biscuits "  with  melted 
butter,  then  spread  cheese  filling  on  thickly,  sprinkle  paprika 
on  top,  and  put  in  oven  until  hot.  Can  be  heated  over  and 
used  as  a  Welsh  rarebit  or  cheese  sauce,  thinned  out  with  a 
little  cream  or  milk. 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  97 

CHEESE  TOAST 

3  ounces  mild  cheese  2  teaspoons  mustard 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  Salt  and  red  pepper 

3  ounces  butter 

Grate  the  cheese ;  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  butter. 
Beat  it  well,  adding  the  seasonings.  Toast  some  bread  in 
2-inch  long  narrow  strips,  spread  thickly  with  the  mixture, 
put  in  covered  pan  in  hot  oven  until  heated  through,  then 
remove  cover  and  let  brown. 

CHEESE  RAMEKIN 

2  slices  bread 
1 1 2  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat 

4  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

2  eggs 
1 1 2  teaspoon  mustard    v 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Cook  the  bread  in  the  milk  until  it  is  smooth.  Add  the  fat 
and  cheese.  Cook  one  minute;  take  off  and  pour  over  yolks 
of  eggs,  well  beaten,  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper.  Fold  in  the 
whites  beaten  very  stiff ;  pour  into  buttered  baking-dish  and 
bake  15  minutes. 

RISOTTO 

1  cup  rice  I  1/2  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  Paprika 

1/2  onion  2  to  3  cups  stock  or  water 

1  cup  tomato  pulp  1 1 2  cup  grated  cheese 

Put  the  rice  over  fire  with  plenty  of  cold  water  and  let 
boil  5  minutes,  then  drain,  and  rinse.  Melt  the  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  rice  and  onion,  let  cook  until  butter  is  ab- 
sorbed, then  add  the  tomato  pulp,  salt,  paprika,  and  liquid. 


98     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Let  cook  until  rice  is  tender  and  the  liquid  is  absorbed.  Then 
stir  the  cheese  in  carefully.  Take  out  the  onion,  use  a  fork 
and  stir  or  lift  the  rice  carefully  to  avoid  breaking  the 
grains.  Serve  very  hot. 

CHEESE  AND  EGGS 

Soak  I  cup  of  dried  bread  crumbs  in  fresh  milk.  Beat  into 
this  3  eggs,  add  I  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1/2  pound  of 
grated  cheese.  Strew  upon  the  top  sifted  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  in  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 

CHEESE  CROQUETTES 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  1/2  cups  mild  cheese,  grated 
I  /4  cup  flour  Salt  and  pepper 

2/3  cup  milk  Few  grains  cayenne 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Make  a  thick  white  sauce,  using  butter,  flour,  and  milk; 
add  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  until  well  mixed,  then  add  cheese. 
As  soon  as  grated  cheese  melts,  remove  from  fire  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Spread  in  shallow  pan  and 
cool.  Turn  on  a  board,  cut  in  small  squares  or  strips,  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs  again,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper. 

CHEESE  SCALLOP 

1  cup  crumbs  1/4  pound  cheese,  grated 

2  tablespoons  butter     1  1/2  cups  milk,  hot 
1/4  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs 

1/8  teaspoon  paprika 

Melt  butter,  stir  in  crumbs,  and  mix  thoroughly  with 
grated  cheese.  Beat  eggs  together,  add  slowly  the  hot  milk, 
and  pour  the  mixture  on  the  crumbs  and  cheese ;  season  and 
pour  into  buttered  molds.  Set  in  hot  water  in  moderate 
oven  till  set  like  a  custard. 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  99 

CHEESE  PATTIES 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

I  rounding  tablespoon  grated  cheese  1/2  pound 

1/2  teaspoon  melted  butter  1  tablespoon 

1  scant  teaspoon  milk  1  tablespoon 

1  teaspoon  egg  1  egg 

Salt  1/2  teaspoon 
Paprika 

Mix  all  to  a  smooth  paste.  Make  patty  cases  as  follows: 
Have  slices  of  bread  one  inch  thick ;  shape  with  large  round 
cutter,  then  with  smaller  round  cutter  cut  part  way  through 
the  slice  and  dig  out  center.  Spread  lightly  with  butter  and 
brown  in  oven.  Fill  case  with  cheese  and  place  in  oven  just 
long  enough  to  soften  cheese. 

CHEESE  CANAPES  (I) 

Toast  circular  pieces  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  a  thick  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Place  on  a 
tin  sheet  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted.  Serve  at  once. 

CHEESE  CANAPES  (II) 

Spread  circular  pieces  of  toast  with  a  thin  layer  of  French 
mustard  and  proceed  as  in  Canapes  I. 

RECIPES  FOR  LEGUMES 
LENTIL  OR  SPLIT-PEA  SOUP 

1  cup  dried  lentils  or  peas  3  tablespoons  butter 

2  cups  of  cold  water  4  tablespoons  flour 
1/2  onion                                  1  1/2  teaspoons  salt 

2-inch  cube  of  fat  salt  pork     1/3  teaspoon  pepper 

Pick  over  lentils  or  peas,  and  soak  overnight.  Drain ;  add 


ioo    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

cold  water  (enough  to  make  4  cups  with  the  amount  ab- 
sorbed), pork,  and  onion,  simmer  until  soft  —  3  or  4  hours  — 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook  the  butter,  flour,  and  season- 
ing as  for  white  sauce.  Add  the  pulp  and  cook  well.  If  it  is 
too  thick,  thin  out  with  water  or  milk. 

Additional  flavoring  for  black  and  white  bean  soups 

2  slices  of  carrot        1  ,  .   .         ^  ,  .  r  J        t 

,.         ,  A       .  (  browned  in  1  tablespoon  fat  and 

2  slices  of  turnip,        >        .  .    ,  ,    e  .  . 

,      £  [      added  before  straining 

1/4  of  a  green  pepper   J 

1/8  of  a  bay  leaf 

3  peppercorns 
1  clove 

DRIED  BEAN  SOUP 

I  pint  beans 

1  large  onion,  minced  fine 

4  tablespoons  drippings  or  butter 
3  tablespoons  flour 
A  few  dried  celery  leaves 

2  teaspoons  salt 
1/2  teaspoon  pepper 

3  pints  cold  water 

2  quarts  boiling  water 

Wash  the  beans.  Put  plenty  of  cold  water  over  them,  and 
soak  overnight.  Pour  off  the  water  and  put  the  beans  in  a 
kettle  with  the  3  pints  of  cold  water.  Bring  the  water  to 
the  boiling  point  and  pour  it  off.  Add  the  boiling  water  to 
the  beans  and  let  them  simmer  for  4  hours.  Add  the  celery 
the  last  hour  of  cooking.  Strain  the  soup.  Brown  the  onion 
in  the  drippings.  Add  the  flour  and  cook,  stirring  often. 
Add  the  thickening  and  seasoning  to  the  soup  and  cook  20 
minutes. 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  101 

BAKED  BEAN  SOUP 

I  cup  baked  beans 

1  cup  tomato 
(  3  cups  water 
Cook  and  strain.  Make  a  sauce  with 

2  teaspoons  butter 
2  teaspoons  flour 

I  1/2  teaspoons  salt 

1/2  teaspoon  mustard 

1/8  teaspoon  pepper 
and  strained  liquid.  Let  it  cook  well.  If  desired,  a  slice  of 
onion  may  be  added  to  the  tomato. 

GREEN  PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  COW  PEAS 

I  tablespoon  butter  or  other  fat 
I  tablespoon  onion  finely  chopped 

1  tablespoon  sweet  green  pepper  finely  chopped 

2  cups  cooked  cow  peas 
1/2  cup  grated  cheese 

Cook  the  onion  and  pepper  in  the  fat,  being  careful  not  to 
brown,  and  add  them  to  the  peas  and  cheese. 

Cut  sweet  green  peppers  into  two  pieces  lengthwise,  re- 
move all  the  seeds,  and  fill  each  piece  with  the  mixture. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  peppers  are  soft.  Baste 
occasionally. 

LENTIL  LOAF 

{Substitute  for  meat) 
1/2  cup  dried  lentils  I  onion,  grated 

1/3  to  1/2  cup  soft  bread  crumbs       1  pimento,  chopped 
3  tablespoons  melted  1  teaspoon  salt 

butter  or  other  fat  Mace 

1  egg  Dash  of  cayenne 

Soak  the  lentils  overnight.  Drain,  cover  with  cold  water, 
and  boil  until  tender.  Press  through  a  sieve  to  remove  skins. 


102     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cook  onion  in  melted  butter.  Add  to  lentil  puree  together 
with  pimento,  bread  crumbs,  and  seasonings.  Mix  in  well- 
beaten  egg.  Bake  in  bread-pan,  in  a  loaf,  about  30  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  occasionally  with  oil  or  butter. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  tomato 

Melt  fat,  add  flour  and  salt.  Stir  until  smooth.  Add  tomato 
juice,  stir  constantly  until  it  boils. 

BOSTON  ROAST 

3/4  cup  red  kidney  beans      1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  grated  cheese  3  tablespoons  butterine  melted 

1/4  cup  bread  crumbs  in  1/2  cup  water 

Soak  kidney  beans  overnight  in  water  to  cover,  drain, 
cover  with  fresh  water,  and  cook  until  tender  and  water  is 
almost  evaporated.  Mash  beans  or  put  them  through  a  meat- 
grinder.  Add  grated  cheese  and  bread  crumbs  to  make  the 
mixture  stiff  enough  to  be  formed  into  a  roll.  Add  salt  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  occasionally  with  melted 
butterine. 

Serve  with  tomato  sauce.  This  dish  may  be  flavored  with 
onion. 

PECAN  NUT  LOAF,  WHITE  SAUCE 

5  riced  potatoes  1  1/3  cups  hot  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  1/3  cup  finely  chopped  pecan 

I  teaspoon  salt  nut  meats 

Few  grains  pepper  1  cup  white  sauce 

To  riced  potatoes  add  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  hot  milk. 
Beat  with  fork  until  creamy  and  pack  into  a  slightly  but- 
tered shallow  pan.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  let  stand  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  thoroughly  reheated.  Turn  on  hot 


OTHER  MEAT  SUBSTITUTES  103 

platter,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  pecan  nut  meats,  pour 
around  one  cup  white  sauce  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

VEGETABLE  ROAST 

I  cup  vermicelli  or  rice       1  cup  bread  crumbs 
11/2  cups  boiling  water  1  cup  chopped  walnuts 

3  small  onions  I  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

3  tablespoons  drippings  I  /2  teaspoon  poultry  seasoning 
I  egg  I  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  vermicelli  or  rice  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Finely  chop  the  onions,  and  cook  in  drippings  until  tender 
and  yellow.  Add  egg  well  beaten  and  the  cooked  vermicelli, 
bread  crumbs,  chopped  walnuts,  chopped  parsley,  poultry 
seasoning,  and  salt. 

Mix  well,  shape  in  a  loaf,  and  place  in  a  baking-dish.  Bake 
1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently  with  melted 
drippings.  Serve  with  brown  sauce. 

Brown  Sauce  (or  Tomato  Sauce  may  be  used) 

2  tablespoons  oleomargarine       1/8  teaspoon  pepper 
I  slice  onion  I  cup  boiling  water 

3  tablespoons  flour  I  teaspoon  vegex 
1/4  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  the  oleomargarine,  add  onion,  and  cook  until  oleo- 
margarine is  well  browned.  Add  flour  mixed  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  stir  until  flour  is  browned.  Add  boiling  water  in 
which  has  been  dissolved  the  vegex.  Stir  until  sauce  boils  and 
strain. 

RICE  AND  NUT  LOAF 

I  well- filled  cup  warm  boiled    1  cup  peanuts,  chopped  fine 
rice  1  cup  crumbs  (made  of  stale 

I  cup  milk  barley  biscuits) 

1  egg  1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

Salt  to  taste 


104    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

t  Mix  and  put  in  buttered  bread-pan.  Set  into  another  pan 
of  water  and  bake  1/2  hour.  Put  two  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter  on  top.  When  the  loaf  is  done  turn  out  on 
platter  and  serve  with  cheese  or  tomato  sauce.  (Use  rule 
given  for  cheese  sauce ;  common  cheese  may  be  used  instead 
of  "Snappy.") 

Quick  Tomato  Sauce 

I  can  tomato  soup  1/2  can  hot  water 
1/4  teaspoon  ground  clove  A  dried  celery  leaf  or  two 

I  tablespoon  sugar  I  slice  onion 

A  dash  of  paprika  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

CREAMED  PEANUTS  AND  RICE 

1  cup  rice  (uncooked)      3  tablespoons  flour 

2  cups  chopped  peanuts  3  tablespoons  fat 

1/2  teaspoon  paprika       3  cups  milk  (whole  or  skim) 
2  teaspoons  salt 

Boil  rice.  Make  white  sauce  by  mixing  flour  in  melted  fat 
and  mixing  with  milk.  Stir  over  fire  until  it  thickens.  Mix 
rice,  peanuts,  and  seasoning  with  sauce,  place  in  greased 
baking-dish  and  bake  for  20  minutes. 


CHAPTER  VIII 

CEREALS 

With  this  chapter  we  begin  the  study  of  another  group 
of  food  substances,  the  carbohydrates,  which  is  di- 
vided into  two  subdivisions,  starches  and  sugars.  These 
may  look  alike  when  in  powdered  form,  but  they  taste 
very  differently  and  are  quite  different  in  their  chemical 
composition.  The  sugars  will  be  left  to  a  later  chapter. 

When  looked  at  under  the  microscope,  raw  starch  is 
seen  to  be  made  up  of  a  mass  of  cells,  each  with  a 
woody  coat,  embedded  in  a  network  of  changes 
woody  fiber.  The  markings  on  the  woody  starch 
coat  of  the  small  granules  differ  with  the  m  ergoes 
source  of  the  starch ;  that  from  the  potato  is  marked  in 
one  way  and  that  from  oats,  barley,  and  rice  in  still 
different  ways,  so  that  each  can  be  readily  detected  by 
close  examination.  When  mixed  with  cold  water,  starch 
does  not  dissolve,  but  settles  on  standing.  When,  how- 
ever, this  mixture  of  starch  and  water  is  heated,  it 
undergoes  a  chemical  change.  The  woody  coats  of  the 
starch  granules  are  broken  open  by  heat,  as  is  also  the 
woody  fiber  framework  of  the  starch  itself,  permitting 
the  starch  to  swell,  and  forming  a  thick  paste  with  the 
water.  This  is  said  to  be  the  hydrolysis  of  the  starch, 
and  unless  starch  has  gone  through  this  change,  it  can- 
not be  properly  acted  upon  by  the  digestive  juices. 

If  this  paste  is  heated  further,  it  will  become  thinner 
until  finally  it  is  a  watery  liquid  again.  This  is  due  to 
the  fact  that  the  starch  has  undergone  a  further  chemi- 
cal change,  gradually  becoming  first  a  gum  called  "dex- 


106    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

trine/ '  and  then  a  sugar  known  as  "maltose."  This 
change  in  the  chemical  form  of  the  starch  can  be  pro- 
duced more  rapidly  by  dry  heat.  When  flour  is  browned 
on  the  pan  for  brown  gravy,  we  are  making  dextrine 
from  some  of  the  starch  granules.  Since  dextrine  is 
soluble  in  water,  the  browned  flour  will  not  thicken 
as  well  as  ordinary  flour,  and  more  must  be  used  to 
the  same  proportion  of  water.  We  also  dextrinize  the 
starch  in  our  bread  when  we  make  a  slice  of  toast, 
which  is  the  reason  why  a  piece  of  dry  toast  is  more 
easily  digested  than  a  slice  of  fresh  bread. 

Starch  is  found  exclusively  in  the  vegetable  king- 
dom. It  is  the  form  which  nature  takes  for  the  storage 
Source  of  of  food  for  the  use  of  the  plant  at  some 
starch  future  time.  Usually  this  storehouse  of 

food  is  laid  by  for  the  nourishment  of  the  seedling 
which  will  make  the  new  plant;  hence  starch  is  found 
in  seeds  or  tubers  where  the  embryo  lies  dormant. 
Starch,  as  human  food,  is  taken  primarily  from  the 
seeds  of  plants  belonging  to  the  grass  family,  such  as 
wheat,  rye,  oats,  barley,  and  rice.  We  also  find  it  in 
the  kernel  of  the  corn,  in  the  tuber  of  the  potato,  and 
in  the  root  of  some  tropical  plants  which  gives  us  ar- 
rowroot and  tapioca.  Sago  is  prepared  from  the  pith 
of  several  species  of  palms,  natives  of  the  East  Indies. 
But  all  of  these  are  the  same  chemical  substance  though 
appearing  on  the  market  in  different  forms. 

The  term  "cereal"  has  two  distinct  meanings  as 
generally  used.  The  correct  use  of  the  term  is  when  it 
is  applied  to  the  grain  itself,  while  its  secondary  mean- 
ing is  the  product  made  from  the  grain  in  the  form  of  a 
breakfast  food. 

The  structure  of  the  kernels  of  all  grain  is  much  the 


CEREALS  107 

same.  The  outside  is  well  protected  by  several  bran 
coats  —  five  in  the  case  of  wheat.  The  in-  structure 
side  is  divided  into  two  parts,  one,  much  of  kemel 
larger  than  the  other,  is  called  the  "  endosperm, "  and 
the  smaller  one  is  known  as  the  "germ."  In  the  germ 
we  find  protein  material,  since  here  we  have  the  ma- 
terial which  will  eventually  form  the  new  plant.  We  also 
find  in  the  germ  whatever  fat  there  is  in  the  grain.  It 
contains  minute  quantities  of  substances  known  as 
" enzymes,"  or  unorganized  ferments,  which  enable  it 
to  utilize  for  food  the  starch  material  in  the  endosperm. 
The  endosperm  itself,  along  with  its  mass  of  starch 
granules  embedded  in  woody  fiber,  contains  a  network 
of  protein  material.  This  particular  protein  material  is 
known  as  "gluten,"  and  is  found  in  greater  quantity  in 
wheat  and  rye  than  in  any  other  cereal.  It  is  because  of 
this  substance  that  wheat  and  rye  make  a  porous  loaf 
of  bread.  The  Biblical  phrase,  "  Except  a  seed  fall  into 
the  ground  and  die,  it  cannot  live,"  is  literally  true, 
since  the  life  of  the  seedlet  depends  entirely  upon  the 
fermentation  of  the  starch  in  the  grain,  as  it  cannot  be 
used  for  food  until  it  is  turned  through  fermentation 
into  the  soluble  form  of  sugar. 

The  cereal  grains  have  been  used  for  human  food  for 
many  hundreds  of  years.  It  is  one  of  the  wonders  of  na- 
ture that  a  grain  suitable  as  a  food  for  the  Use  of  grains 
people  of  different  climates  grows  abund-  for  food 
antly  in  those  climates.  Rice,  for  instance,  which  has 
the  lowest  fat  content  of  any  of  the  grains,  grows  in 
warm  climates  where  the  people  do  not  need  fatty 
food;  while  oats  and  corn,  the  two  that  are  richest  in 
fat,  are  indigenous  to  cold  climates  where  fat  is  essen- 
tial. The  grains  were  first  used  whole,  being  parched  on 


108    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

hot  stones  or  in  ashes.  Later  it  was  found  to  be  more 
convenient  to  use  them  after  they  had  been  cracked  by 
pounding  between  stones  and  the  coarser  bran  re- 
moved. In  this  form  they  were  boiled  with  water  and 
used  as  mushes.  Still  later  this  process  was  carried 
further  and  meals  were  made  from  the  grain  by  a  pro- 
longed pounding  in  a  mortar  with  a  pestle  or  between 
stones.  The  woman  of  the  primitive  race  was  the  one  to 
prepare  the  meals,  until  later,  animals  were  harnessed 
in  such  a  manner  as  to  turn  one  stone  upon  another. 

As  the  ingenuity  of  the  races  increased,  the  forces 
of  nature  were  used  for  this  grinding.  Stones  were  still 
used  as  grinding  surfaces,  but  the  upper  millstone  was 
now  turned  by  wind  or  water.  Survivals  of  these  old- 
fashioned  mills  are  still  to  be  found  on  Long  Island 
and  in  the  South.  Meal  from  such  a  mill  contained 
the  whole  of  the  kernel  of  corn  or  wheat,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  outermost  bran  coats  which  were  sifted 
out.  This  produced  a  meal  containing  fat  which  grew 
rancid  on  standing  and  could  not  be  kept  for  any  length 
of  time.  As  the  development  of  machinery  progressed, 
the  old-fashioned  millstones  were  replaced  by  modern 
steel  machinery. 

A  modern  flour-mill  is  a  very  complicated  institution 
and  cannot  be  gone  into  in  detail  here.  The  grinding 
surfaces  are  steam  rollers  arranged  in  se- 
ries through  which  the  grain  is  passed  and 
many  products  are  obtained.  Sometimes  as  many  as 
fifty  are  turned  out  from  a  single  mill.  Since  these  roll- 
ers are  slightly  heated,  the  effect  is  very  different  from 
that  obtained  by  the  old-fashioned  stones.  The  endo- 
sperm or  starchy  part  of  the  kernel  is  made  brittle  and 
can  easily  be  pulverized,  whereas  the  germ,  which  con- 


CEREALS  109 

tains  the  fat,  is  flattened  out  when  passed  through  the 
rollers  and  is  separated  from  the  meal  at  the  first  sift- 
ing. This  gives  a  meal  which  is  almost  entirely  lacking 
in  fat,  while  the  caked  germ  is  used  for  the  oil  which  can 
be  extracted  from  it,  then  is  finally  made  into  fodder 
for  cattle.  With  wheat  this  process  is  carried  to  its 
greatest  extent  until  we  have  a  large  variety  of  flours 
in  use  on  the  market.  We  will  discuss  these  more  fully 
in  the  next  chapter. 

With  the  shortage  of  wheat  due  to  war  conditions  we 
have  learned  to  use  and  to  appreciate  more  of  the  ce- 
real products  than  we  have  known  before.  Grains  used 
Flour  has  been  made  from  barley,  corn,  for  bread- 
oats,  and  rice  as  well  as  from  the  more  makms 
familiar  rye  and  wheat,  and  all  of  these  can  be  used  to 
take  the  place  of  some  of  the  wheat  in  bread-making. 
Because  of  their  lack  of  gluten,  to  make  a  successful 
loaf  of  bread  they  cannot  be  used  in  a  greater  propor- 
tion than  a  third  of  the  substitute  to  two  thirds  of 
wheat.  As  a  usual  thing  wheat,  rye,  and  corn  are  the 
three  grains  that  are  used  for  breads;  the  others  are 
used  whole  or  ground  as  meal  for  other  purposes.  The 
use  of  barley,  rye,  and  wheat  for  bread  is  thought  to 
mark  the  stages  in  the  growth  of  the  wealth  of  a  na- 
tion. As  people  become  more  prosperous  they  discard 
barley  bread  for  rye,  while  wheat  bread  has  always 
been  the  sign  of  luxury. 

There  is  no  real  reason  for  this  difference  in  use  ex- 
cept for  the  flavor,  as  barley  contains  just  as  much 
nourishment  as  wheat.   It  contains  less 
fat  than  corn  or  oats,  and  slightly  more 
starch  than  oats  or  wheat.  It  is  of  very  ancient  origin, 
growing  in  a  wider  range  of  climate  than  any  other 


no    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

cereal  and  was  the  chief  bread  plant  of  the  ancients 
and  of  Europe  down  to  the  sixteenth  century.  Because 
of  its  great  enzymic  power  it  is  used  for  malting  and 
makes  a  basis  for  all  beers  and  ales.  When  the  hull  is 
removed  it  is  sold  as  pearl  barley.  Its  importance  as  a 
national  resource  is  shown  by  the  extent  of  its  produc- 
tion in  the  United  States.  As  a  crop,  it  ranks  fourth, 
corn,  wheat,  and  oats  being  its  superiors.  It  is  used  to 
make  gruel  for  infants  and  invalids. 

Corn,  rightly  known  as  maize,  is  native  to  America, 
though  its  cultivation  has  spread  rapidly  to  Europe, 
northern  Africa,  and  Asia.  It  is  grown  to 
so  great  an  extent  in  this  country  that  the 
supply  that  is  turned  into  cornmeal  could  be  increased 
tenfold  without  changing  the  amount  of  land  now  de- 
voted to  corn-raising.  An  increase  in  the  demand  for 
cornmeal  would  make  it  more  profitable  for  the  farmer 
to  sell  his  corn  to  the  miller  than  to  use  it  for  feed. 
Many    commercial   products   are   made    from    corn, 
among  which  are  corn  syrups  and  commercial  glucose. 
It  is  not  surely  known  that  oats  were  cultivated  by 
the  Egyptians  or  Hebrews,  Greeks,  or  Romans.  They 
are  thought  to  have  been  used  first  by 
the  peoples  of  eastern  Europe  or  Tartary. 
They  were  cultivated  by  prehistoric  western  Europe, 
but  not  until  after  wheat  and  barley  were  in  use.  The 
production  of  oats  increased  rapidly,  until  in  Scotland 
to-day  it  occupies  one  third  of  the  land  cultivated  in 
crops  and  in  Ireland  one  half  of  all  grain  and  green 
crops.  This  grain  contains- a  larger  percentage  of  crude 
fiber  than  maize  at  the  expense  of  starch,  while  the 
kernel  is  richer  in  protein  and  fat  than  any  other  of  our 
cereals.  It  is  used  chiefly  in  the  form  of  oatmeal. 


CEREALS  in 

Rice  is  known  to  have  been  cultivated  in  China  be- 
fore 2800  B.C.  It  was  introduced  into  Europe  by  the 
Saracens,  and  was  brought  to  the  United 
States  in  1694  as  a  present  to  the  Gov- 
ernor of  South  Carolina.  It  has  been  grown  in  this 
country  since  that  time.  There  has  been  much  talk  of 
late  of  the  harm  caused  by  the  use  of  ''polished"  rice. 
The  reason  for  this  is  that  in  order  to  have  a  pure  white 
rice,  the  kernels  are  subjected  to  a  process  by  which  all 
of  the  bran  is  very  carefully  removed.  This  takes  away 
from  the  rice  a  large  proportion  of  its  mineral  matter 
and  its  vitamines.  This  loss  is  an  important  one  where 
rice  is  practically  the  sole  article  of  diet,  as  is  the  case 
among  the  very  poor  of  China  and  the  Philippines, 
and  is  no  doubt  the  cause  of  such  diseases  as  beriberi. 
Where  rice  is  used,  however,  two  or  three  times  a  week 
and  is  only  one  article  of  a  very  mixed  diet,  the  loss  is 
too  small  to  be  considered.  Cured  or  brown  rice,  how- 
ever, is  to  be  had  on  the  market  for  those  who  want  it, 
but  requires  longer  cooking  than  the  "polished"  rice. 

The  cultivation  of  rye  is  not  so  ancient  as  the  culti- 
vation of  wheat  or  barley.  It  contains  less  protein  and 
fat  than  wheat,  but  it  does  contain  gluten 
which  makes  it  possible  to  make  a  porous 
bread  from  it.  It  is  found  in  the  market  both  as  fine 
and  coarse  flour.  Like  barley  it  is  used  for  the  manu- 
facture of  alcohol  and  alcoholic  beverages  and  as  a  feed 
for  cattle. 

All  of  these,  together  with  wheat,  are  used  in  one 
form  or  another  for  breakfast  cereals.   When  used 
whole,  the  husks  only  are  removed  and  the  Breakfast 
grains  require  a  very  long,  slow  cooking.  cereals 
In  this  form  they  are  served  as  porridge.  Oats  are  the 


H2    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

most  common,  though  corn  in  the  form  of  hominy  has 
long  been  in  use.  These  have  been  considerably  re- 
placed by  prepared  cereals  known  as  "rolled  oats"  and 
wheat.  The  kernel  is  partly  cooked  by  steam  at  the 
factory  and  pressed  while  wet  between  rollers.  It  is  to 
be  noted  that  this  type  of  cereal  has  not  been  thor- 
oughly cooked,  and  is  much  better  if  given  a  longer 
cooking  than  is  specified  on  the  box. 

There  are  many  other  specially  prepared  cereals  on 
the  market.  These  are  usually  sold  in  packages  with 
trade  names.  The  processes  of  their  manufacture  are 
secret ;  but  in  a  general  way  the  grains  are  cleaned,  the 
husks  removed,  and  the  grains  cooked  or  dried  and 
crushed.  Some  have  salt,  molasses,  or  sugar  added, 
while  some  are  colored  with  caramel.  Some  are  rolled 
very  thin.  Those  that  are  like  dried  crumbs  have  prob- 
ably been  made  into  dough,  baked,  crushed,  and  then 
browned.  Some  are  shredded  and  many  are  parched  or 
toasted.  Malted  breakfast  foods  are  treated  by  malt  in 
the  process  of  manufacture.  Malt  is  barley  which  has 
been  allowed  to  germinate  and  then  kiln-dried.  Those 
cereals  which  are  called  "puffed"  have  been  heated 
under  pressure  at  a  high  temperature  and  the  pressure 
suddenly  diminished.  The  general  composition  of  all 
these  is  very  much  the  same  with  a  fairly  high  pro- 
tein content,  from  9  to  15  per  cent,  and  carbohydrates 
65  to  75  per  cent.  The  fat  is  the  most  variable  con- 
stituent, being  greatest  in  these  foods  from  corn  and 
oats  and  lowest  in  rice,  varying  from  5  to  0.2  per 
cent.  The  ash  proportion  is  small,  from  0.5  to  2  per 
cent. 

Uncooked  cereals  should  all  be  given  a  long,  slow 
cooking  to  break  up  the  starch  granules.  They  are  best 


CEREALS  113 

stirred  into  rapidly  boiling  salted  water  and  allowed 
to  cook  directly  over  the  fire  from  five  to  Cooking  of  • 
ten  minutes.  They  can  then  be  placed  in  cereals 
the  top  of  a  double  boiler  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or, 
better  still,  in  the  fireless  cooker  for  overnight.  It  is  to 
be  remembered  that  no  cereal  can  be  overcooked,  even 
though  it  is  partly  cooked  to  begin  with.  The  longer  it 
is  cooked  the  more  digestible  it  is.  The  general  pro- 
portion for  the  amount  of  water  to  be  used  with  cereals 
is  one  part  of  cereal  to  four  parts  of  water  for  the 
granular  varieties  and  one  part  of  cereal  to  two  parts  of 
water  for  the  flaked.  These  proportions,  however,  do 
not  hold  true  where  the  cereal  is  allowed  to  boil  vigor- 
ously for  some  time,  as  the  water  boils  away  rapidly. 

Although  cereals  purchased  in  packages  are  apt  to  be 
cleaner  and  are  more  easily  handled  in  the  home,  it  is 
to  be  noted  that  they  cost  more  than  those  bought  in 
bulk.  The  ready- to-eat  kind  are  higher  in  price  than 
the  partially  cooked,  though  their  nutrient  value  is 
practically  the  same,  pound  for  pound.  Many  are  so 
light,  however,  that  the  value  received  for  the  money 
paid  is  very  low.  The  cost  of  malted  cereals  is  more  to 
the  producer;  hence  a  higher  price  to  the  purchaser. 

It  is  perfectly  possible  to  use  cereal  breakfast  food  in 
other  ways  than  for  breakfast  dishes.  Rice,  hominy, 
and  fried  cornmeal  mush  are  already  in  constant  use  to 
supply  the  starch  at  lunch  or  dinner.  Others  can  be 
used  for  spiced  steam  pudding,  small  cakes,  and  other 
desserts.  When  cooked  with  dates  or  figs  they  can  be 
molded  and  served  cold  with  cream.  In  the  form  of 
mushes,  gruels,  and  cereal  jellies  they  have  a  valu- 
able place  in  the  diet  of  children,  old  people,  and 
invalids. 


H4     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 
RELATIVE  VALUES  OF  CEREALS  AS  PURCHASED 


Oatmeal 

Oatmeal 

Cornmeal 

Cornmeal 

Hominy 

Samp 

Cracked  wheat. 
Cream  of  wheat 

Wheatena 

Rice 

Shredded  wheat 

Puffed  rice 

Corn  flakes .... 
Graham  flour.. . 

White  flour 

Bread 


Unit  of  purchase 


I  lb.  4  oz.  package 

I  lb.  by  bulk 

I  lb.  8  oz.  package 

i  lb.  by  bulk 

i  lb.  8  oz.  package 

I  lb.  by  bulk 

I  lb.  io  oz.  package 

I  lb.  12  oz.  package 

i  lb.  8  oz.  package 

I  lb.  by  bulk 

12  oz.  package 

5  oz.  package 

8  oz.  package 

I  lb. 

lib. 

i  lb.  5  oz.  loaf 


Cost 


12 

07 

12 

07 
o8 
.08 
25 
.23 
.18 
.18 
•  14 
.15 
.15 
.07 
.o8i 

•15 


Total 
calories 


1912 
1800 
2419 

1613 
2412 
1608 
2652 
2870 
1947 
1591 
1243 
500 
800 
1627 
1600 
1541 


Calories 
for  10  c. 


1583+ 
2571 
2015 
2304 

3015 

2010 

1060+ 

1247 

1081 
883 
887+ 
333+ 
533+ 

2324+ 

1888+ 

1002 


Proportions  for  Cooking  Cereals 


Kind 

Amoum 

\       Water 

Salt 

Cornmeal 

1  cup 

4  to  5  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Granular  cereals  1  cup 

4  to  6  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Hominy 

1  cup 

4  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Oatmeal 

1  cup 

4  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Rice,  boiled 

1  cup 

8  to  12  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Rice,  steamed 

1  cup 

4  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Rolled  oats 

1  cup 

2  to  3  cups 

1  teaspoon 

Time 
1  to  3  hours 
1/2  to  1  hour 
3  to  5  hours 
3  to  4  hours 
30  minutes 
1  to  3  hours 
I  to  3  hours 


CEREAL  RECIPES 
OATMEAL  SOUP 


Boil  1  cup  rolled  oats  with  2  cups  boiling  water.  When 
thoroughly  done,  add: 

1  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  butter  or  butterine 

1/4  teaspoon  pepper  I  slice  of  onion 

1  cup  celery  water  ( or  flavor  with  dried  celery  leaves) 
Add  1  more  cup  of  milk.  Strain  and  serve. 


CEREALS  115 

GREEN  PEA  AND  OATMEAL  SOUP 

Drain  1  can  of  peas.  Add  a  slice  of  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
a  sprig  of  mint. 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

I  /4  teaspoon  pepper  2  cups  water 

Cook  slowly  15  minutes.  Rub  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Boil 
1  scant  cup  oatmeal  in  1  pint  water  until  well  done.  Then  add 
1  pint  milk.  Pour  slowly  over  the  peas.  You  may  add  1  tea- 
spoon butterine.  Rub  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Heat  in  double 
boiler. 

OATMEAL  AND  SPINACH  SOUP 

I  cup  oatmeal  2  teaspoons  sugar 

61/2  cups  water  1  cup  tomato 

I  onion ;  seasoning  3/4  cup  cooked  spinach 

Boil  water;  add  the  oatmeal  and  the  other  ingredients 
and  cook  together  3/4  hour  in  a  covered  saucepan,  stirring 
frequently.  Add  milk  if  possible. 

RICE  AND  ONION  SOUP 

3  tablespoons  rice 
1  onion,  sliced  fine 
I  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  drippings,  lard,  or  other  fat 

2  tablespoons  parsley 

I  clove;  1  bay  leaf;  scraps  of  celery 
7  cups  boiling  water 

Put  the  drippings  in  a  pan,  and  when  smoking  hot,  fry 
the  rice  and  onion  in  it.  Pour  this  into  a  kettle  with  the  water, 
salt,  celery,  clove,  and  bay  leaf.  Boil  till  the  rice  is  cooked 
(about  30  minutes).  Add  the  parsley  and  serve. 


n6    FOOD  FACTS  FQR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

SCALLOPED  RICE 

Home  recipe  Individual 

3/4  cup  rice  2  tablespoons 

2  tablespoons  fat  1  teaspoon 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon 

1  cup  milk  1/4  cup 

1/4  cup  cheese,  grated  1/2  tablespoon 

1/4  cup  bread  crumbs  1  tablespoon 

Boil  rice  in  large  kettle  of  water.  Drain  and  mix  with 
white  sauce,  made  as  follows:  Melt  the  fat  and  add  the  flour, 
when  smooth  pour  in  the  cold  milk  and  cook  until  it  boils, 
stirring  constantly.  Butter  a  baking-dish.  Put  in  the  creamed 
rice  with  the  layer  of  cheese  in  the  middle  and  on  the  top. 
Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs. 

BAKED  HOMINY 

3/4  cup  fine  hominy  1/4  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  egg 

2  cups  milk 

Add  hominy  and  salt  to  boiling  water.  Let  boil  2  minutes, 
then  cook  in  double  boiler  until  water  is  absorbed.  Add  one 
cup  of  milk  and  cook  1  hour.  Remove  from  range,  and  add 
butter,  sugar,  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  the  other  cup  of  milk. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  1  hour. 

Use  instead  of  rice  or  potatoes  at  a  "meatless"  meal. 

RICE  WITH  PARSLEY  OR  CHIVES 

1/2  cup  rice  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley  or  chives 

Cook  rice  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water;  add  butter 
and  parsley  or  chives,  mixing  gently  with  fork  to  avoid 
breaking  the  grain.  Serve  as  a  vegetable. 


CEREALS  117 

TURKISH  PILAF 

1/2  cup  washed  rice  1  cup  stock  highly  seasoned 

3/4  cup  stewed  tomatoes        3  tablespoons  butter 

Add  tomato  to  stock;  heat  to  boiling  point;  add  rice,  cook 
5  minutes  over  flame,  and  steam  until  rice  is  soft;  stir  in 
butter  with  a  fork  and  keep  uncovered  that  steam  may 
escape.  Serve  as  a  vegetable  or  as  a  border  for  curried  or 
fricasseed  meat. 

SPANISH  PILAF 

2  cups  cooked  rice  1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

I  quart  can  tomatoes         1/2  sweet  green  pepper,  chopped 
I  cup  cheese,  cut  fine  4  slices  of  bacon  (on  top) 

Salt 

Cook  in  a  casserole  for  1  1/2  hours. 

MACARONI  WITH  PEPPERS 

1  cup  cooked  macaroni  1/2  cup  grated  Young 

2  tablespoons  chopped  onion  America  cheese 
2  tablespoons  chopped  green             2  eggs 

pepper  I  1/2  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  chopped  red 
pepper 

3  slices  of  toasted  bread  in  1/2  inch  cubes 

Place  a  layer  of  macaroni  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish, 
then  a  layer  of  vegetable,  of  cheese,  of  bread  cubes.  Repeat 
twice.  Beat  eggs  and  add  milk.  Pour  into  the  dish  and  let 
stand  ten  minutes.  Bake  until  a  silver  knife  comes  out  clean. 

BOILED  MACARONI  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Boil  macaroni  until  tender  in  salted  water,  drain,  and 
pour  cold  water  over  it.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


Ii8    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Tomato  Sauce 

1  pint  tomato  juice  i  slice  carrot 

2  tablespoons  flour  I  slice  onion 

2  tablespoons  butter  Sprig  of  parsley 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  2  whole  cloves 

8  peppercorns  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Brown  vegetables  in  butter,  add  tomatoes  and  seasonings, 
let  cook  slowly  15  minutes,  and  strain.  Wet  flour  with  some 
of  the  liquid,  rub  smooth,  and  add  to  remaining  liquid;  boil 
2  or  3  minutes. 

1/4  pound  of  macaroni  needs  I  pint  sauce. 

The  Italians  serve  grated  cheese  with  this  dish,  preferably 
Parmesan  cheese. 

MACARONI  LOAF 

1/2  pound  macaroni  1  egg,  or  none 

2  cups  white  sauce        1  /2  pound  dried  beef 

Boil  macaroni  until  tender,  drain;  tear  beef  into  small 
pieces;  add  eggt  if  used,  to  sauce.  Put  in  layers  in  a  buttered 
mold,  cover,  and  steam  two  hours.  Turn  out  and  serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

GNOCCHI  ALLA  ROMANA 

1  pint  milk  (or  1/2  milk  and  1/2  water) 
1/2  cup  farina  or  cornmeal 

I  egg 
Butter  and  grated  cheese 
Salt 

Let  the  milk  come  to  a  boil;  salt  it,  add  the  cornmeal 
slowly,  stirring  all  the  time  vigorously.  When  it  is  a  smooth 
mixture,  take  from  the  fire,  add  butterine  (1  tablespoon), 
several  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  and  the  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Mix  well  and  spread  out  on  molding  board  in  a 
sheet  3/4  inch  thick.  When  cold,  cut  in  squares  or  diamonds, 


CEREALS  119 

putting  a  layer  of  these  in  a  buttered  baking-dish  (shallow), 
sprinkle  with  cheese,  and  dot  with  butter.  Make  other  layers 
until  dish  is  full,  and  bake  in  oven  until  brown  on  top. 

PITTSBURGH  SAMP 

I  cup  samp  2  pimentos 

1  quart  boiling  water  1  cup  white  sauce 

2  teaspoons  salt  1/4  pound  mild  cheese 
1  onion,  finely  chopped 

Soak  the  samp  in  cold  water  overnight.  Drain,  add  the 
boiling  water  and  salt  and  boil  10  minutes.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  5  or  6  hours  or  in  the  fireless  cooker  overnight.  Then 
add  the  onion  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  the  pimentos  cut  in 
small  pieces,  cook  7  minutes,  and  turn  into  buttered  baking- 
dish.  Mix  the  cheese  with  the  white  sauce  and  pour  over  the 
samp.  Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. 

OATMEAL  PUDDING 

I  1/2  cup  cold  boiled  oatmeal        1  cup  sliced  apples,  or 
1  /2  teaspoon  salt  1  /2  cup  seedless  raisins 

Cook  5  hours  in  fireless  cooker  and  eat  with  sugar  and 
milk,  or  butter,  for  sauce. 

Other  cereal  puddings: 

Bread  puddings 
Rice  puddings 
Baked  Indian  puddings 
Tapioca  puddings 


CHAPTER  IX 
FLOUR  MIXTURES 

The  grain  most  used  for  breadstuffs  of  all  kinds  is 
wheat,  though  corn  and  rye  are  in  frequent  use  and 
others  have  been  brought  to  the  fore  by 
war  conditions.  Wheat  is  one  of  the  oldest 
of  the  grains  and  was  cultivated  very  early  in  China, 
India,  and  Egypt.  There  are  several  varieties  grown 
and  various  methods  used  in  its  cultivation.  The  two 
grades  that  are  primarily  used  for  flour  in  this  country 
are  the  one  known  as  winter  wheat  which  is  sowed  in 
the  fall  and  harvested  in  the  early  summer,  and  the 
other  known  as  spring  wheat  which  is  planted  in  the 
spring  and  is  harvested  in  the  late  summer.  The  first  of 
these  has  a  kernel  which  is  softer  and  more  starchy- 
It  produces  a  whiter  flour  with  a  less  proportion  of 
gluten  and  is  used  largely  for  pastry.  The  kernel  of  the 
other  is  harder,  being  richer  in  gluten,  and  is  more  diffi- 
cult to  separate  from  the  bran.  This  gives  a  darker  flour 
that  is  more  granular  to  the  touch.  It  will  not  compact 
when  squeezed  in  the  hand  as  does  the  pastry  flour,  and 
is  gritty  between  the  fingers.  This  is  known  as  bread 
flour,  though  nowadays  some  of  the  mills  are  using 
combinations  of  different  varieties  of  wheat  for  their 
fine-grade  flours. 

Every  flour  mill  produces  several  grades  of  flour.  The 

first  of  these  is  known  as  the  patent  or  high-grade  flour 

into  which  goes  72  to  76  per  cent  of  the 

total  weight  of  the  wheat.  The  second 

grade  is  known  as  baker's  flour  and  is  made  up  of  18  to 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  121 

22  per  cent  of  the  wheat.  The  rest  is  sold  as  low-grade 
flour.  Graham  flour  was  originally  a  flour  made  from 
the  entire  kernel  with  the  exception  of  the  outer  bran 
coats,  while  "entire"  wheat  flour  is  made  from  the  en- 
dosperm part  of  the  kernel  but  does  not  include  the 
germ  as  does  graham  flour.  It  does,  however,  contain 
some  of  the  bran  and  therefore  more  of  the  mineral 
salts  than  are  found  in  ordinary  white  flour. 

These  various  flours  are  used  for  the  infinite  variety 
of  breads,  muffins,  cakes,  and  pastry  which  we  are  in- 
cluding under  the  general  term  of  flour  mixtures.  The 
simplest  form  of  any  such  mixture  is  the  old-fashioned 
hoe-cake  where  the  meal,  usually  corn,  was  mixed  with 
water  and  salt  and  baked  on  a  board  before  an  open 
fire;  or  is  found  in  the  form  of  the  corn  dodger  where 
the  meal  is  scalded  and  when  cooled  is  formed  into 
small  cakes,  and  cooked  in  a  hot  oven.  Gradually,  how- 
ever, other  ingredients  have  been  added  to  give  a 
greater  variety  and  to  make  them  more  pleasing  to  the 
taste.  We  have  built  up,  then,  a  definite  series  of  these 
mixtures  as  follows : 

Proportions  for  mixtures 

1.  Batter  —  that  which  is  beaten  in  a  bowl 

Liquid  Flour 

a.  Pour  batters:  1  part  1  to  1  1/2  parts 

Used  for  popovers,  griddle- 
cakes,  and  waffles 

b.  Drop  batters:  I  part  2  parts 

Used  for  muffins  and  cakes 

2.  Dough  —  that  which  is  moistened  and  handled  on  a  board.: 

Liquid  Flour 

a.  Soft  doughs:  1  part    2  1/2  to  2  3/4  parts 

Used  for  baking-powder 
biscuit,  shortcake,  etc. 

b.  Stiff  doughs:  I  part  3  parts  or  more 

Used  for  bread  and  pastry 


122     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

When  different  ingredients  are  added  to  the  original 
simple  mixture,  it  must  be  noted  whether  they  would 
Effect  of  fall  under  the  heading  of  liquid  or  dry  in- 

ingredients  gredient.  Butter,  for  instance,  or  other 
shortening,  melts  when  heated  and  so  behaves  like  a 
liquid  in  the  mixture;  therefore  the  shortening  should 
be  counted  in  with  the  liquid  and  as  more  is  used,  the 
other  liquid  should  be  decreased  to  keep  the  proportion 
correct.  Eggs  become  stiff  in  the  oven,  so  that  a  mixture 
containing  several  eggs  may  be  thinner  before  going 
into  the  oven  than  one  without  so  many.  As  sugar  is 
added,  the  mixture  becomes  heavier  and  more  baking- 
powder  must  be  used.  Flavors  may  be  either  liquid  or 
dry  and  should  be  counted  in  where  they  belong;  coffee, 
for  instance,  must  form  a  part  of  the  total  liquid,  while 
spices  are  counted  as  dry  ingredients.  The  ingredients 
for  a  plain  cake  are  just  the  same  as  those  for  a  rich 
muffin  since  they  both  belong  in  the  same  group  of 
flour  mixtures,  the  only  difference  between  them  being 
the  manner  in  which  they  are  put  together. 

There  are  four  distinct  methods  of  mixing  bread- 
stuffs.  If  a  cook  is  familiar  with  these  and  with  the  gen- 
Methods  of  eral  proportions  given  above,  she  no  longer 
mixins  needs  to  be  bound  to  a  cook-book  but  can 

make  up  her  own  recipes.  She  must,  however,  become 
familiar  with  the  feel  of  different  kinds  of  mixtures. 
She  should  also  know  that  if  the  oven  is  hot  the  mix- 
ture can  be  thinner  than  if  it  is  cool.  Also  where  corn- 
meal  is  used  the  mixture  must  be  very  thin  because 
cornmeal  absorbs  so  much  water  in  cooking. 

I.  Muffin  Method 

Mix  and   sift  dry  ingredients.   Add  eggs  slightly 
beaten.  Add  milk.  Add  shortening  melted. 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  123 

2.  Cake  Method 

Cream  the  fat.  Work  in  half  the  sugar.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  rest  of  the  sugar.  Add  this  to  the 
creamed  fat.  Sift  salt  and  baking-powder  with  the  flour, 
add  this  to  the  fat  mixture,  alternating  with  milk.  Cut 
and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 

3.  Pastry  or  Baking-Powder  Method 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  several  times.  Cut  in 
the  fat  with  two  knives.  Add  moisture  lightly.  Toss  on 
a  board.  Pat  to  about  one  half  inch  thickness  and  cut 
out. 

4.  Bread  Method 

Scald  milk,  or  boil  water.  Pour  onto  fat,  sugar,  and 
:  salt.  When  lukewarm,  add  yeast  dissolved  in  small 
amount  of  lukewarm  water.  Add  flour,  knead,  let  rise 
till  double  in  bulk.  Knead  again.  Put  into  bread-pans. 
Let  rise  till  double  in  bulk.  Bake  45  to  50  minutes  in 
moderately  hot  oven. 

In  order  to  make  the  breadstuffs  light  and  porous 
in  texture,  some  leavening  agent  must  be  used.  The 
simplest  of  these  and  the  cheapest  is  air.  Leavening 
This  is  incorporated  in  the  mixture  by  the  aeeilts 
sifting  of  the  flour,  by  the  beating  of  the  egg,  and  by 
the  lightness  with  which  the  mixture  is  handled.  It  acts 
as  a  leavening  agent  because  hot  air  occupies  more 
room  than  cold  air.  The  second  is  moisture,  and  this 
can  be  counted  on  more  than  is  frequently  realized. 
Since  moisture  is  changed  to  steam  in  the  oven  it  has  a 
great  expansive  power  which  lifts  the  batter  and  helps 
to  make  it  light.  We  count  upon  this  agent  for  the 
popping  of  popovers  and  for  the  flakiness  of  pastry. 

Our  next  agents  are  artificial  ones.  A  gas  is  intro- 
duced into  the  mixture  which  will  expand  in  the  ovenc 


124     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

In  all  these  cases  the  gas  used  is  the  same,  carbon  diox- 
Soda  and  ide,  but  it  is  formed  in  various  ways.  The 
sour  milk  simplest  is  by  the  use  of  a  carbonate  or 
baking-soda  with  a  natural  acid  such  as  is  found  in 
sour  milk  or  molasses.  The  quantity  of  soda  used  must 
be  carefully  measured  because  if  more  is  used  than  can 
be  split  up  by  the  acid  present,  it  will  be  left  in  the 
gingerbread  or  griddle-cakes  as  soda,  giving  a  very  dis- 
agreeable taste  to  the  food.  One  level  teaspoonful  of 
soda  is  all  that  is  necessary  to  be  used  with  two  cups  of 
sour  milk.  Since  this  would  not  make  enough  gas  to 
make  the  mixture  very  light  it  is  well  to  add  some  bak- 
ing-powder along  with  it  —  one  fourth  as  much  as  we 
would  use  if  we  were  using  sweet  milk.  Since  the  action 
takes  place  just  as  soon  as  the  soda  comes  in  contact 
with  the  sour  milk,  it  is  well  to  mix  the  soda  thoroughly 
with  the  other  dry  ingredients  and  not  add  the  sour 
milk  until  just  as  the  mixture  is  ready  to  be  put  into 
the  oven. 

When  we  are  not  using  sour  milk  or  molasses,  we 
must  look  elsewhere  for  an  acid  to  combine  with  our 
Baking-  soda  in  order  to  give  us  the  required  gas. 

powders  There  are  several  such  acids  which  when 

combined  with  soda  form  the  baking-powders  to  be 
had  on  the  market.  The  best  of  these  is  made  of  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  mixed  with  a  little  starch  to  keep  it 
from  absorbing  moisture.  Cream  of  tartar  is  the  salt  of 
an  organic  acid  found  in  grapes  and  when  combined 
with  soda  leaves  a  salt  in  the  muffin.  This  salt  is  the 
active  ingredient  of  a  seidlitz  powder  and  the  amount 
ordinarily  used  for  a  dozen  muffins  is  about  half  of  an 
ordinary  seidlitz  powder.  Another  group  of  baking- 
powders  is  made  of  a  combination  of  a  phosphate  salt 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  125 

with  soda,  and  the  third  group  is  known  as  the  alum 
powders.  In  each  case  the  residue  left  in  the  muffin 
must  be  considered  and  as  these  are  somewhat  irritat- 
ing to  the  intestinal  tract,  it  is  well  always  to  use  the 
best  baking-powder  obtainable  and  as  little  of  that  as 
possible.  Three  level  teaspoons  of  baking-powder  are 
sufficient  for  two  cups  of  flour  where  one  egg  is  used. 
Since  a  light  mixture  can  be  obtained  by  the  action 
of  air  and  moisture,  both  of  which  are  far  less  ex- 
pensive than  any  baking-powder,  a  premium  is  put 
on  the  cook  who  can  handle  her  mixture  lightly  and 
quickly. 

If  a  small  amount  of  baking-powder  is  put  in  a  tum- 
bler and  cold  water  added  to  it,  it  will  be  seen  that  the 
action  causing  an  effervescence  of  gas  takes  place  im- 
mediately. This  is  true  in  the  flour  mixture,  the  gas  is 
given  off  just  as  soon  as  the  liquid  is  combined  with  the 
dry  ingredients.  Since  then  the  gas  is  desired  in  the 
mixture  in  the  oven,  it  is  well  not  to  add  the  liquid  to 
the  dry  ingredients  until  the  pans  are  greased  and  the 
oven  is  ready  to  receive  them. 

Another  way  of  forming  carbon  dioxide  in  our  flour 
mixtures  is  by  the  action  of  yeast.  The  gas  formed  is 
exactly  the  same  as  that  formed  from 
baking-powders  but  it  is  formed  in  an  en- 
tirely different  way.  Yeast  is  a  tiny  single-celled  plant 
introduced  into  the  dough  where  it  finds  plenty  of  food 
and  conditions  just  right  for  growth.  Like  any  other 
plant  it  must  have  warmth,  moisture,  mineral  matter, 
protein  food,  and  carbohydrate  in  order  to  thrive. 
These  are  all  found  in  a  mixture  of  wheat  flour  and 
water.  The  yeast  cannot  utilize  the  starch  of  the  flour 
until  that  has  been  changed  into  the  soluble  form  of 


126    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

sugar.  This  is  done  by  the  process  of  fermentation 
which  the  yeast  itself  is  able  to  perform  by  the  secre- 
tion of  ferments  during  its  growth  process.  It  also  is 
able  to  change  the  sugar  thus  formed  to  alcohol  and 
carbon  dioxide.  It  is  a  greedy  little  plant  and  changes 
far  more  starch  to  carbon  dioxide  than  it  needs  for 
food,  so  that  we  can  see  the  bubbles  of  gas  forming  in 
the  dough  while  it  is  rising. 

There  are  many  more  chemical  changes  involved  in 
the  process  of  making  bread  but  this  is  not  the  place  to 
go  into  them  thoroughly.  Each  step  in  the  process  of 
bread-making  is  done  with  some  definite  aim  in  mind. 
The  reason  the  milk  is  scalded  or  the  water  boiled  before 
starting  our  dough  is  in  order  to  sterilize  it  to  prevent 
other  micro-organisms  from  growing  under  the  same 
conditions  as  are  being  prepared  for  the  yeast.  If  this 
were  not  done,  sour  bread  might  be  the  result.  When 
bread  is  baked,  the  yeast  plant  is  killed,  leaving  nothing 
in  the  bread  but  dead  yeast  cells  which  are  organic  ma- 
terial and  therefore  harmless.  The  carbon  dioxide  gas 
is  expanded  and  driven  out;  so  also  is  the  alcohol  that 
has  been  formed.  The  gluten  present  in  the  wheat  flour 
being  elastic  stretches  with  the  expansion  of  the  gas 
until  it  is  hardened  by  the  action  of  the  heat  of  the 
oven.  The  starch  on  the  inside  of  the  loaf  unites  with 
the  water  present  to  form  hydrolized  starch  while 
that  on  the  outside  becomes  dextrinized  in  the  greater 
heat  thus  giving  to  the  loaf  its  shiny  brown  appear- 
ance. At  the  same  time  flavors  are  developed  due  to  the 
formation  of  a  small  amount  of  ethereal  salts. 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  127 

MUFFIN,  BREAD,  AND  CAKE  RECIPES 
RHODE  ISLAND  CORN  CAKE 

1  cup  Rhode  Island  cornmeal 

2  cups  boiling  water 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

4  or  5  teaspoons  drippings  or  lard 

Scald  the  meal  with  boiling  water  —  the  meal  should 
double  its  bulk.  Pat  into  neat  ovals  2x3  about  1/2  inch 
thick.  If  too  stiff,  the  batter  can  be  thinned  with  milk,  or 
sour  milk  and  soda.  Drop  large  tablespoonfuls  on  a  hot 
griddle,  having  the  fat  hot.  Serve  with  syrup. 

HOMINY  PUFFS 

1  cup  boiled  hominy     1  tablespoon  melted  fat 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 

separately 

To  the  hominy,  add  the  salt,  melted  fat,  beaten  yolks,  and 
stiff  whites.  Drop  onto  greased  tins  and  bake. 

DROP  CORN  CAKES 

2  cups  cornmeal  3  eggs 

4  cups  boiled  hominy  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 

Mix  all  together  in  above  order,  and  thin  with  milk  until 
you  can  drop  the  mixture  from  a  spoon  on  a  pan,  then  bake 
brown. 

CORN  PONE 

3  cups  boiling  water 
3  cups  cornmeal 
1/4  teaspoon  salt 

Stir  together.  Spread  evenly  in  a  thin  sheet  on  a  buttered 
pan  and  dot  with  bits  of  butterine.  Bake  until  brown. 


128    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

CRISP  CORN  BREAD 

3  cups  milk  (or  milk  and  water) 
I  1/2  cups  cornmeal 
I  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  well  and  spread  in  shallow  pan  to  about  1/4  inch  in 
depth.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  crisp;  it  will  take 
about  3/4  hour. 

RICE  OR  HOMINY  CAKE 

2  cups  cold  rice  or  hominy  softened  with  hot  water 

3  eggs  beaten  light 
I  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  flour 

1  teaspoon  butter 

Beat  the  eggs  into  the  softened  rice  or  hominy.  Add  the 
milk,  flour,  and  butter.  Bake  in  a  greased  pan,  and  turn  out 
while  hot.  Serve  with  butter. 

LIBERTY  MUFFINS 

I  cup  wheat  flour,  white,  entire,  or  graham 
I  cup  cornmeal,  rye  meal  or  flour 

1  cup  milk  or  water 

4  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  tablespoons  sugar  or  Karo  corn  syrup 
2  tablespoons  Mazola  or  melted  suet 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  (flour,  meal,  baking-powder, 
sugar,  and  salt).  Add  the  milk,  beating  quickly  and  lightly. 
Mix  in  the  fat.  Bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

I  egg  2  tablespoons  shortening 

I  1/2  cups  bran  31/2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

1  1/2  cups  white  flour  1/2  teaspoon  salt 
1  1/2  cups  sweet  milk 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  129 

Mix  the  salt,  baking-powder,  flour,  and  bran  together. 
Beat  egg  slightly  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  the  milk  and 
melted  shortening,  mixing  thoroughly  and  lightly. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  25  to  30  minutes. 

CORN  MUFFINS 

1  cup  cornmeal  2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  flour  1  beaten  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking-powder  1  cup  milk  and  water  mixed 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  4  tablespoons  melted  short- 

ening 

Mix  in  order  given,  beat  well,  and  bake  in  greased  gem 
pans  in  hot  oven  20  minutes. 

BARLEY  AND  RICE  FLOUR  MUFFINS 

7/8  cup  rice  flour  1  tablespoon  sugar 

I  3/8  cups  barley  flour  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking-powder  1  tablespoon  melted  fat 

Mix  by  regular  muffin  method.  Bake  in  well-greased 
muffin  molds  for  35  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

For  rice  flour  and  oatmeal  muffins,  in  place  of  1  3/8  cups 
of  barley  flour  use  1  1/8  cups  of  ground  rolled  oats. 

RYE  MUFFINS 

I  1/4  cups  rye  meal  1/4  cup  molasses 

I  1/2  cups  flour  1  3/4  cups  milk,  part  of  which  can 

5  teaspoons  baking-  be  water 

powder  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  and  molasses  grad- 
ually, and  melted  butter.  Bake  in  hot  oven  in  buttered  gem 
pans  25  minutes. 


130    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 


SPOON  CORN  BREAD 

3/4  cup  cornmeal  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1/4  cup  flour  1/2  cup  sour  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1/2  tablespoon  salt 

1  /4  teaspoon  soda  ( 2  teaspoons  baking-powder  only  if  no 
sour  milk  is  used) 

Melt  butter  m  baking-dish.  Mix  other  ingredients  as  for 
muffins,  keeping  out  1/2  cup  of  the  sweet  milk.  Pour  mix- 
ture into  baking-dish,  add  1/2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  40 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

CORNMEAL  BISCUITS 

I  cup  yellow  or  white  cornmeal  4  teaspoons  baking-powder 
1  cup  wheat  flour  2  tablespoons  shortening 

1  teaspoon  salt  Liquid  to  make  soft  dough 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients  thoroughly.  Cut  in  the  shorten- 
ing, add  the  liquid.  Place  the  dough  on  a  floured  board  and 
roll  or  pat  it  until  it  is  I  /2  inch  thick.  Cut  the  biscuits  and 
bake  them  in  a  hot  oven  from  12  to  15  minutes.  A  floury 
surface  can  be  avoided  by  brushing  the  biscuits  with  milk 
or  water  just  before  baking. 

QUICK  RAISIN  BREAD 

21/3  cups  entire  wheat  flour  1/4  cup  brown  sugar 

1/2  cup  fine  cornmeal  I  eggf  well  beaten 

2  tablespoons  baking-powder  I  1/4  cups  milk 
I  1/2  teaspoons  salt  I  cup  seeded  raisins, 

cut  in  halves 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  egg  and  milk.  Mix  well 
and  then  add  raisins.  Put  into  greased  bread-pan,  cover  and 
let  stand  20  minutes.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  50  to  60 
minutes. 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  131 

NUT  BREAD 

2  cups  white  flour  4  teaspoons  baking-pow- 

2  cups  graham  flour  der 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  cup  nuts,  English  walnuts,  1  teaspoon  salt 

chopped  I  1/2  cups  milk 

Mix  the  flours,  baking-powder,  salt,  and  sugar  together. 
Stir  in  the  nuts,  the  egg  well  beaten,  and  the  milk,  beating 
lightly  and  quickly.  Pour  into  well-greased  bread-pans.  Let 
stand  20  minutes.  Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

PRUNE  LOAF 

21/2  cups  entire  wheat  1/4  cup  brown  sugar  dissolved  in 

flour  I  cup  liquid   (prune  water  and 

I  1/2  teaspoons  salt  milk) 

4  teaspoons  baking-  1  tablespoon  melted  shortening 

powder  9  to  12  prunes 

Wash  and  soak  prunes  several  hours ;  drain,  stone,  and  cut. 
Mix  and  sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking-powder.  Add  liquid  and 
shortening,  and  mix  thoroughly  before  adding  prunes.  Let 
stand  in  a  greased  pan  20  to  25  minutes  in  a  warm  place. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

BUCKWHEAT  GRIDDLE  CAKES 

2  cups  scalded  milk         1/6  yeast  cake 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  1  1/3  cups  buckwheat  flour 

1  tablespoon  molasses     2/3  cup  wheat  flour  (bread) 

Mix  and  beat  well,  let  it  stand  overnight;  beat  slightly 
and  allow  it  to  rise  a  short  time  before  baking.  1/3  cup  of 
cornmeal  may  be  added  instead  of  part  of  the  buckwheat 
for  variety.  For  quick  work  use  2  yeast  cakes. 


132    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

RAISED  WAFFLES 

2  cups  milk 
l/6  yeast  cake 

2  cups  flour,  bread  or  pastry 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately 

I  tablespoon  butter,  melted 

Mix  the  milk,  yeast,  and  flour  at  night.  In  the  morning 
add  the  other  ingredients.  Use  only  one  egg,  make  the  batter 
a  trifle  thinner,  and  fry  on  the  griddle  and  you  have  Flannel 
Cakes. 

This  recipe  may  be  varied  by  using  1/2  or  1/3  fine,  white 
cornmeal  or  graham  flour  with  the  white  flour.  If  intended 
for  tea,  mix  in  the  afternoon,  using  I  to  2  yeast  cakes. 

RAISED  MUFFINS 

I  cup  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  1/4  yeast  cake 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  egg 

1/4  cup  sugar  4  cups  flour,  pastry 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk  and  water;  when  luke- 
warm add  dissolved  yeast  cake,  egg  well  beaten,  and  flour; 
beat  thoroughly,  cover,  and  let  rise  overnight.  In  the  morn- 
ing, fill  buttered  muffin  rings  two  thirds  full;  let  rise  until 
rings  are  full,  and  bake  30  minutes  in  hot  oven.  For  quick 
work  use  2  yeast  cakes. 

GRILLED  MUFFINS 

Put  buttered  muffin  rings  on  a  hot  greased  griddle.  Fill 
one  half  full  with  raised  muffin  mixture,  and  cook  slowly 
until  well  risen  and  browned  underneath;  turn  muffins  and 
rings,  and  brown  the  other  side. 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  133 

CORNMEAL  AND  WHEAT  BREAD 

I  1/2  cups  milk,  water,  or  a    1  1/2  teaspoons  salt 

mixture  of  the  two  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1/2  cake  compressed  Butter  (if  used)  1  table- 

Or  spoon 

I  1/4  cups  milk,  water,  or  a  I  cup  cornmeal 

mixture  of  the  two  2  cups  wheat  flour 

1  /4  cup  liquid  yeast 

Pour  I  1/4  cupfuls  of  the  water  over  the  cornmeal,  salt, 
sugar,  and  fat  (if  used),  and  heat  the  mixture  gradually  to 
the  boiling  point  or  nearly  to  it  and  cook  20  minutes,  prefer- 
ably in  a  double  boiler.  The  water  is  sufficient  only  to  soften 
the  meal  a  little.  Allow  the  meal  to  cool  to  about  room  tem- 
perature and  add  the  flour  and  yeast,  mixed  with  the  rest 
of  the  water,  or  the  1/4  cupful  of  liquid  yeast.  Mold  thor- 
oughly and  let  stand  until  it  doubles  its  bulk,  make  a  loaf, 
place  in  a  pan  of  standard  size,  allow  to  rise  until  it  nearly 
fills  the  pan,  and  bake  45  or  50  minutes. 

ROLLED  OATS  BREAD 

2  cups  rolled  oats  1  tablespoon  shortening 

3  cups  boiling  water     1  /4  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 

1/2  tablespoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lukewarm  water 

1/2  cup  molasses  6  to  7  cups  white  flour 

Add  the  boiling  water  to  the  rolled  oats,  salt,  molasses, 
and  shortening,  and  let  stand  until  lukewarm.  Add  the  dis- 
solved yeast  and  flour.  Mix  thoroughly,  and  let  rise  until  the 
dough  doubles  its  bulk.  Again  stir;  put  into  greased  pan, 
and  let  rise  until  loaf  doubles  its  bulk.  Bake  about  50  min- 
utes, in  a  moderate  oven. 

POTATO  BREAD 

I  tablespoon  shortening  1  cup  mashed  potato 
I  1/2  tablespoons  sugar     1  /4  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
1  /2  tablespoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lukewarm  water 

1  /2  cup  scalded  milk  2  cups  white  flour 


134    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

To  the  shortening,  sugar,  salt,  and  potato  add  the  milk. 
When  lukewarm  add  the  dissolved  yeast.  Gradually  knead 
in  all  the  flour,  though  the  dough  will  be  very  stiff.  Let  rise 
until  it  doubles  its  bulk.  Again  knead  and  put  into  greased 
pan.  Let  rise  until  loaf  doubles  its  bulk.  Bake  about  50  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. 


RICE  BREAD 

1  1/2  cups  cold  cooked  rice      1/2  yeast  cake 

(either  brown  or  white)   2  tablespoons  scalded  milk 

2  1/4  cups  wheat  flour  (or  water  drained  from 

I  teaspoon  salt  rice) 

I  tablespoon  sugar  I  tablespoon  shortening 

Put  rice  through  strainer,  add  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
melted  shortening,  scalded  milk,  and  part  of  flour  in  which 
salt  and  sugar  have  been  sifted.  Add  enough  flour  to  knead 
on  a  board,  knead  thoroughly  five  minutes.  Let  rise  until 
doubled  in  bulk.  Cut  down.  Shape  in  loaves,  put  in  bread- 
pan  to  rise  again.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  one  hour. 

RYE  BREAD 

1  tablespoon  shortening     1  /4  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
1/2  tablespoon  salt  1/2  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  tablespoons  molasses  1  cup  rye  flour 

1/2  cup  scalded  milk  2  cups  (about)  entire  wheat 

flour 

To  the  shortening,  salt,  and  molasses  add  the  milk.  When 
lukewarm,  add  the  dissolved  yeast  and  flour.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  let  rise  until  dough  doubles  its  bulk.  Knead,  or  stir 
thoroughly,  put  into  greased  pan,  and  let  rise  until  loaf 
doubles  its  bulk.  Bake  about  50  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven. 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  135 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

4  tablespoons  shortening  2  cups  pastry  flour 

1/2  cup  sugar  I  teaspoon  ginger 

1  beaten  egg  1  teaspoon  allspice 

1/2  cup  N.O.  molasses  1/2  teaspoon  soda 
1/2  cup  milk,  sour 

Make  like  cake  —  mixture  should  be  almost  a  pour  bat- 
ter; bake  in  a  sheet  in  a  moderate  oven  20  to  30  minutes. 

OLD-FASHIONED  SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

Break  1  egg  in  teacup;  add  1  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
3  tablespoons  sour  milk ;  fill  up  cup  with  molasses  and  pour 
into  mixing-bowl.  Add  1  cup  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  soda, 
I  scant  teaspoon  ginger,  and  a  little  salt. 

DROP  GINGER  CAKES 

1  cup  brown  sugar  4  cups  flour  (pastry) 

I  cup  molasses  1/2  teaspoon  soda 
1  cup  sour  milk  4  teaspoons  ginger 

3/4  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  egg  1/2  teaspoon  cloves 

Put  butter,  water,  molasses,  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan  over 
the  flame,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  cool  slightly;  then  mix 
in  thoroughly  other  ingredients.  The  mixture  should  not 
run  when  dropped  an  inch  or  more  apart  on  a  greased  sheet. 
Sour  milk  would  be  preferred  to  water  if  the  molasses  were 
bought  in  cans  and  lacked  acid.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

FAIRY  GINGERBREAD 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1  tablespoon  butter  4  tablespoons 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1/2  cup 
I  tablespoon  milk  1/4  cup 
5  tablespoons  flour  1  1/4  cups 

1/4  teaspoon  ginger  1  teaspoon 

1/16  teaspoon  soda  3/16  teaspoon 


136     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Make  like  cake.  The  batter  should  be  stiff  enough  to 
spread.  Invert  a  pie  pan,  butter  it,  and  spread  the  mixture 
l/8  inch  thick.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  watching  con- 
stantly. When  light  brown  take  from  the  oven  and  check  off 
with  a  knife  or  roll  up.  The  small  recipe  will  cover  two  pans. 

[Note  :  All  cakes  are  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little 
salt,  even  though  the  recipe  does  not  call  for  it.] 

BUTTER  CAKE 

1/2  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  21/2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  small  eggs  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
1/2  cup  milk 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  eggs 
well  beaten  —  beating  the  mixture  all  the  while  to  keep  the 
consistency  the  same.  Add  the  vanilla,  then  at  the  same  time 
one  third  of  the  milk  and  one  third  of  the  flour,  then  another 
third  of  the  milk  and  third  of  the  flour,  beating  well  mean- 
while. Sift  in  the  last  third  of  the  flour  containing  the  baking- 
powder  and  mix  well  before  adding  the  last  portion  of  milk 
—  this  to  be  added,  or  more,  if  needed.  The  consistency  is 
a  matter  of  experience.  Bake  in  shallow  cake  pans,  and  put 
together  with  different  frostings  or  filling,  from  which  the 
cake  takes  its  name. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  FROSTING 

1  pound  soft  maple  sugar 
1/2  cup  boiling  water 
Whites  of  2  eggs 

Break  sugar  in  small  pieces,  put  in  saucepan  with  the 
boiling  water,  and  stir  occasionally  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread  when  dropped 
from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  gradually  on  beaten  whites,  beating 
mixture  constantly,  and  continue  beating  until  of  right  con- 
sistency to  spread. 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  137 

SOUR-CREAM  FILLING 

1/2  cup  chopped  English  walnuts         1/2  cup  sour  cream 
1/2  cup  chopped  raisins  1/4  cup  sugar 

Mix  ingredients  and  spread  between  layers. 

FIG  FILLING 

1/2  pound  figs  finely  chopped  1/3  cup  boiling  water 

1/3  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

WALNUT  CAKE 

Add  to  the  cake  batter  3/4  cup  walnut  meats  sliced  thin, 
bake  mixture  in  a  sheet.  When  cool  cover  with  boiled  frost- 
ing, crease  in  squares,  and  place  one  half  walnut  in  each 
square. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE 

1/2  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking-powder 

1  cup  sugar  1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
1/2  cup  milk  Whites  5  eggs 

2  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Follow  recipe  for  mixing  Butter  Cake.  Bake  in  shallow 
pans,  and  put  Marshmallow  Cream  between  the  layers  and 
on  top. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM  OR  PASTE 

3/4  cup  sugar  1/4  pound  marshmallows 

1/4  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  sugar  and  milk  in  a  saucepan,  heat  slowly  to  boiling 
point  without  stirring,  and  boil  six  minutes.  Break  marsh- 
mallows  in  pieces  and  melt  in  double  boiler,  add  hot  water 
and  cook  until  mixture  is  smooth,  then  add  hot  syrup  gradu- 


138     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

ally,  stirring  constantly.  Beat  until  cool  enough  to  spread, 
then  add  vanilla.  This  may  be  used  for  both  filling  and 
frosting. 

PISTACHIO  PASTE 

To  Marshmallow  Paste  add  a  few  drops  extract  of  almond, 
1/3  cup  pistachio  nuts  blanched  and  chopped,  and  leaf  green 
to  color. 

CHOCOLATE  NOUGAT  CAKE 

1/4  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking-powder 

1  cup  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

I  egg  and  1  egg-yolk  2  squares  chocolate,  melted 

1  cup  milk  1/3  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  cups  pastry  flour  2/3  cup  almonds  blanched  and 

shelled 

Cream  the  butter,  add  gradually  1  cup  sugar  and  egg 
unbeaten;  when  well  mixed  add  vanilla,  then  2/3  cup  milk, 
and  flour  in  portions,  the  last  portion  of  flour  sifted  with 
baking-powder.  To  melted  chocolate  add  1  /3  cup  powdered 
sugar,  place  on  range,  add  gradually  remaining  milk,  and 
cook  until  smooth.  Cool  slightly,  and  add  to  cake  mixture. 
Bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  round  layer-cake  pans.  Put  between 
layers  and  on  top  of  cake  boiled  frosting  sprinkled  with 
almonds. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

7  tablespoons  butter  3  cups  flour 

I  1/2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

3/4  cup  sour  milk  I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2  eggs  2  ounces  bitter  chocolate 

Melt  chocolate,  pour  over  it  1/2  cup  boiling  water;  mix 
well  and  let  it  cool  thoroughly  before  using.  Put  the  batter 
together  in  the  ordinary  way  adding  chocolate  as  part  of 
moisture.  Bake  in  shallow  pans.  Put  layers  together  with 
boiled  frosting  or  the  following 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  139 

FILLING 

1/4  cup  butter      1/2  cup  sour  cream    2  cups  brown  sugar 

Boil  like  candy;  stir  while  cooking;  flavor  when  cold  with 
vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE,  OR  DEVIL'S  FOOD 

{Nellie  Dot  Ranche) 
2  eggs  beaten  separately  to  a  stiff  froth 
2  cups  brown  sugar,  mortared 
1/2  cup  butter 
1 1 2  cup  sour  milk 
21/2  cups  flour 
1/2  cup  boiling  coffee  or  water,  with  a  teaspoonful  of 

soda  mixed  in  it  and  let  stand 
1/4  pound  vanilla  chocolate,  grated 

Bake  in  moderate  oven,  in  three  layers. 

FILLING  FOR  DEVIL'S  FOOD 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  mortared 
1/4  pound  grated  chocolate 
2/3  cup  sweet  milk 

{vanilla 
rose 
almond 
Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Boil  until  it  drops  from  a  spoon.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Fill  the  cooled  cake  with 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 

8  eggs,  whites  only  1/2  pound  milk 

1  pound  flour  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

1  pound  sugar  2  teaspoons  almond  extract 
1/2  pound  butter 


140    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cream  the  butter.  Cream  the  sugar  into  the  butter  thor- 
oughly. Sift  the  baking-powder  with  the  flour,  and  add  to  the 
butter  and  sugar  alternately  with  the  milk.  Beat  the  whites 
stiff  and  cut  and  fold  them  into  the  mixture.  Bake  in  three 
layers. 

Icing  to  be  put  between : 
3  cups  sugar  i  1/2  gills  boiling  water 

Whites  of  4  eggs  1  teaspoon  tartaric  acid 

Boil  sugar  and  water  for  10  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  tall 
stiff,  add  the  acid,  then  pour  the  boiling  syrup  over  them 
slowly.  Add  2  cups  of  raisins  and  2  cups  of  chopped  walnuts. 

NUT  LOAF  CAKE 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  chopped  hickory  nuts  Juice  of  1  /2  lemon 

I  cup  seeded  raisins  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Mix  well,  adding  enough  hot  water  to  moisten.  Cover  and 
allow  to  stand  for  10  minutes.  Add  another  cup  of  hot  water, 
turn  into  buttered  molds,  and  bake  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Serve  cold  sliced. 

CHOCOLATE  HOOVERS 

Whites  of  2  eggs  1  /2  cup  cocoa 

3/4  cup  Karo  syrup  1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  bread  crumbs  I  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  the  whites  until  stiff.  Drip  in  the  syrup.  Mix  the  dry 
ingredients  and  cut  and  fold  them  into  the  whites.  Drop 
onto  a  cooky  sheet,  and  bake  12  to  15  minutes  in  a  medium 
oven. 

SPONGE  DROPS 

Whites  of  3  eggs  1  /3  cup  flour 

1/3  cup  powdered  sugar  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  1/4  teaspoon  vanilla 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  141 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry.  Add  sugar  gradu- 
ally and  continue  beating.  Then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and  flavoring.  Cut  and  fold 
in  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon 
on  unbuttered  paper.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and 
bake  about  8  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

This  mixture  may  be  shaped  and  baked  as  Lady  Fingers. 

NUT  MACAROONS 

I  cup  chopped  nut  meats    1/2  cup  very  fine  cracker  crumbs 
I  cup  sugar  Vanilla  or  almond  flavoring 

Whites  3  eggs 

Beat  eggs  very  light.  Add  sugar  gradually  and  beat  more. 
Fold  in  nuts  and  vanilla,  and  lastly  the  crumbs.  If  eggs  are 
large  add  more  crumbs.  Drop  on  unbuttered  paper  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Remove  from  paper  with  sharp  knife  as 
soon  as  done. 

SWEDISH  MACAROONS 

1 2  ounces  shredded  almonds  I  pound  sugar 
4  ounces  ground  almonds      2  whole  eggs 
4  ounces  cornstarch  Grated  rind  of  two  oranges 

Pass  sugar  and  cornstarch  through  sieve  twice;  add  the 
almonds,  orange  rind,  and  lastly  the  eggs  beaten  light  with- 
out separating.  With  buttered  hands  shape  mixture  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  walnut ;  bake  in  slow  oven  on  tins  covered 
with  waxed  or  oiled  paper. 

MARGUERITES 
Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  1  /2  cup  water  until  it  threads.  Re- 
move to  back  of  range  and  drop  in  5  marshmallows  cut  in 
pieces.  Let  stand  to  dissolve,  then  gradually  pour  onto  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  until  foamy.  Add  2  tablespoons  of 
shredded  cocoanut  and  1/4  teaspoon  vanilla.  When  partially 
cool  add  1  cup  chopped  English  walnut  meats.  Spread  on 
sal  tines  and  brown  slightly  in  hot  oven. 


142     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

This  quantity  will  spread  between  3  and  4  dozen  crackers. 
Delicious  for  afternoon  teas. 

ANGEL  CAKE 

I  cup  whites  of  eggs  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1  cup  granulated  sugar        1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  cup  flour  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Sift  flour  once,  measure,  sift  again  four  times.  Add  salt 
to  whites,  beat  until  foamy,  add  sifted  cream  of  tartar  and 
beat  until  stiff  and  dry.  Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  gradually 
to  beaten  eggs,  continuing  the  beating  until  thoroughly 
mixed.  Add  flavoring,  and  turn  into  an  unbuttered  Angel 
Cake  pan.  The  bottom  of  the  pan  may  have  a  paper  on  it. 
Place  in  a  slow  oven,  and  after  it  has  risen  increase  the  heat 
slightly  to  brown.  Bake  from  3/4  to  I  1/4  hours.  When 
done  place  pan  bottom  up  until  cool. 

SPONGE  CAKE 

6  eggs,  yolks  6  eggs,  whites 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour 

I  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1/4  teaspoon  salt 
1/2  lemon  rind,  grated 

Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, and  continue  beating,  using  Dover  egg-beater.  Add 
lemon  juice,  rind,  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and 
dry.  When  whites  are  partially  mixed  with  yolks,  remove 
beater  and  carefully  cut  and  fold  in  flour  mixed  and  sifted 
with  salt.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven  in  an  Angel  Cake 
pan  or  deep  narrow  pan. 

GOLDEN  CAKE 

1/4  cup  butter  1  cup  flour 

1/2  cup  sugar  I  1/2  teaspoons  baking-powder 
1/2  cup  yolks  of  eggs  I  teaspoon  orange  extract 

1/3  cup  milk 


FLOUR  MIXTURES  143 

Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  yolks  of  eggs 
beaten  until  thick.  Add  extract.  Add  flour  and  milk,  a  third 
of  each  at  a  time,  the  baking-powder  being  sifted  with  the 
last  portion  of  flour.  Reserve  the  last  portion  of  milk  until 
you  are  sure  you  need  it ;  after  baking-powder  goes  in  little 
beating  should  be  done.  If  desired,  omit  orange  extract,  add 
1/2  cup  nut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces  and  bake  in  individual 
tins. 

BOILED  FROSTING 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  or 

1/4  cup  boiling  water  1/2  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  white  of  egg  1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  sugar,  part  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  water  in  saucepan, 
stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  heat  gradually  to  boiling  point, 
and  boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon  or  tines  of  silver  fork,  which  will 
be  Thread  2380.  Pour  syrup  gradually  on  beaten  white  of 
eggy  beating  mixture  constantly,  and  continue  beating  until 
of  right  consistency  to  spread;  then  add  flavoring  and  pour 
over  cake,  spreading  evenly  with  back  of  spoon.  If  not 
beaten  long  enough  frosting  will  run;  if  beaten  too  long  it 
will  not  be  smooth.  Frosting  beaten  too  long  may  be  im- 
proved by  adding  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  boiling 
water.  This  frosting  is  soft  inside  and  has  a  glossy  surface. 
If  frosting  is  to  be  ornamented  with  nuts  or  candied  cherries, 
place  them  on  frosting  as  soon  as  spread. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  butter 

1/3  cup  milk  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter,  add  sugar  and  milk.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dis- 
solved, then  boil  until  when  dropped  into  cold  water  it 
approximates  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from  fire,  cool,  and  beat 


144     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

until  right  consistency  to  spread ;  if  too  thick  add  a  few  drops 
of  milk  or  water;  flavor,  pour  over  cake,  and  spread  evenly 
with  back  of  spoon. 

UNCOOKED  FROSTING 

Put  1/2  white  of  egg  unbeaten  into  a  bowl  with  an  equal 
volume  of  water,  stir  into  it  gradually  4x  powdered  sugar 
until  the  mixture  will  spread  but  not  run  when  put  upon  a 
cool  cake.  Flavor  and  use  at  once.  If  it  must  stand  cover 
with  a  damp  cloth.  Fruit  juice  may  be  used  instead  of  water. 


CHAPTER  X 
FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

In  taking  up  this  new  group  of  food  substances,  that  of 
vegetables  and  fruit,  there  is  need  for  emphasis  on  in- 
creasing their  consumption  in  the  United  States.  We 
use  a  comparatively  large  amount  of  fresh  fruit,  but 
the  total  amount  of  fruit  and  vegetables  consumed  is 
low  when  measured  by  their  value  in  the  diet.  We  fall 
short  particularly  in  the  use  of  the  staples,  especially  the 
potato,  cabbage,  beets,  and  turnips,  as  compared  with 
the  amount  used  on  the  continent  of  Europe.  To  be 
sure,  we  use  a  relatively  large  amount  of  string  beans 
and  peas,  but  small  amounts  of  the  matured  and  dried 
beans  and  peas.  The  potato  in  this  country  is  regarded 
not  as  a  staple  of  the  diet,  as  it  is  in  Germany,  but  as 
an  addition  to  it  like  a  green  vegetable.  Though  regu- 
larly on  our  tables,  it  appears  only  in  small  quantities 
usually  once  a  day,  though  sometimes  twice.  Since  it 
contains  20  per  cent  of  starch  it  could  easily  be  used 
to  replace  grain  products  in  a  mixed  diet,  counting  five 
parts  of  potato  the  equivalent  of  one  part  of  grain. 
Singularly  enough,  universal  as  is  its  use,  it  is  shipped 
from  one  farming  community  to  another  farming  com- 
munity which  adds  the  cost  of  transportation  and 
storage  to  its  price  to  the  consumer.  The  price,  of 
course,  when  taken  in  relation  to  the  food  value 
ought  to  approximate  that  of  grain,  pound  for  pound 
one  fifth  that  of  grain. 

There  are  whole  sections  of  our  population  in  which 


146    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

the  leaf  vegetables  are  practically  unknown.  Their 
consumption  is  low  all  over  the  United  States  except 
among  the  foreign-born.  Neither  are  the  root  vege- 
tables used  to  so  great  an  extent  as  they  should  be. 

The  value  of  vegetables  in  the  diet  does  not  lie  en- 
tirely in  their  actual  chemical  composition  for  they  all 

contain  a  large  amount  of  water,  some- 
Composition       .  .  .  1t 
times  as  much  as  95  per  cent,  especially 

such  foods  as  tomatoes,  cabbage,  celery,  and  berries  of 
different  kinds.  The  amount  of  protein  is  small,  but 
they  are  a  cheap  source  of  this  important  food  nutrient 
when  vegetables  are  abundant.  It  is  to  be  noted  that 
in  respect  to  the  protein  content,  potatoes  are  not 
so  valuable  in  the  diet  as  bread,  since  potatoes  con- 
tain only  about  2  per  cent  of  nitrogenous  matter 
whereas  bread  contains  12  per  cent.  The  amount  of 
starch  in  the  vegetables  varies  with  the  type  of  vege- 
table or  fruit.  As  we  have  already  said,  the  potato  con- 
tains 20  per  cent,  the  sweet  potato  has  about  the  same 
amount,  and  an  unripe  banana  about  22  per  cent. 
Some  starch  is  found  in  all  of  the  underground  vege- 
tables but  in  no  other  of  them  is  there  so  much  as  in  the 
potato.  We  also  find  traces  in  the  vegetables  of  the 
other  carbohydrate,  sugar,  which  may  increase  in 
quantity  to  the  15  per  cent  found  in  sugar  beets  and 
to  the  far  larger  quantity  found  in  fruits,  especially  the 
dried  ones. 

The  chief  value  of  the  vegetables  in  the  diet,  how- 
ever, is  as  a  source  of  mineral  salts.  They  are  an  im- 
A  source  of  port  ant  source  of  iron,  and  stand  next  to 
minerals  miik;  as  a  supply  of  calcium.  They  also 

contain  potassium  and  the  sodium  salts  of  organic 
acids.  These  form  alkaline  or  basic  substances  in  the 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  147 

blood  and  tissues  which  help  to  maintain  the  normal 
neutrality  of  the  blood  and  are  capable  of  neutralizing 
acids  produced  in  protein  metabolism.  For  this  reason 
alone  the  greater  the  quantity  of  meat,  fish,  and  eggs 
used  in  the  diet,  the  more  vegetables  and  fruit  should 
be  used.  To  put  the  same  statement  in  terms  of  money, 
the  same  amount  should  be  spent  for  milk,  fruit,  and 
vegetables  as  is  spent  for  meat,  fish,  and  eggs. 

Besides  these  definite  chemical  constituents  we  have 
been  told  recently  by  Dr.  McCullom  and  others  that 
the  leaves  of  plants  contain  minute  quanti-  a  source  of 
ties  of  some  substances  that  are  absolutely  "  famines  " 
essential  for  normal  growth  and  health.  It  was  found 
by  experimentation  that  it  was  impossible  to  nourish 
young  animals  adequately  on  seeds  alone  or  the  prod- 
ucts of  seeds.  These  were  lacking  in  three  important 
points ;  their  proteins  were  of  poor  quality,  they  were 
poor  in  three  of  the  nine  mineral  elements  required,  and 
they  were  lacking  in  that  "vitamine"  known  as  the 
"fat-soluble  A."  These  deficiencies  were  made  up  by  a 
combination  of  leaves  and  milk  with  the  seeds,  or  of 
meat,  leaves,  and  seeds.  A  mixture  of  leaves  and  seeds 
alone  gave  fairly  good  results.  Hence  the  leaves  of 
plants  are  the  second  protective  food,  milk  and  its  con- 
stituents being  the  first.  Experiments  are  being  made 
to  get  meals  and  flour  in  which  dried  and  pulverized 
leaves  are  added  to  the  product  of  the  seed.  For  in- 
stance, 20  to  30  per  cent  of  dried  spinach  or  celery 
makes  up  the  deficiencies  of  a  seed  product. 

This  "fat-soluble  A"  which  is  found  in  the  leaves  of 
plants  is  present  in  the  germ  of  the  grain  to  a  slight 
extent  but  is  usually  lost  in  the  milling  process,  nor  is 
it  found  in  the  vegetable  oils  extracted  from  the  grain. 


148    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Both  "vitamines"  "A"  and  "B"  are  present  in  all 
vegetables  so  that  it  is  perfectly  possible  to  have  a 
successful  diet  entirely  of  foods  of  plant  origin.  It  is 
not  altogether  wise,  however,  as  variety  of  diet  tends 
towards  safety  and  towards  a  more  perfect  nourish- 
ment of  the  body.  There  is  no  harm  in  using  milled 
products  or  canned  goods  if  their  deficiencies  are  made 
up  by  combinations  with  plenty  of  fresh  foods.  The 
"fat-soluble  A"  is  thought  to  be  unchanged  by  heat, 
but  the  "water  soluble  B  "  is  in  time  hurt  by  heat  and 
more  rapidly  if  in  alkaline  solutions. 

There  are  several  ways  of  grouping  vegetables  and 
fruit.  They  may  be  grouped  according  to  their  general 
Grouping  of  composition,  such  as  (i)  watery,  (2) 
vegetables  starchy,  and  (3)  sweet.  In  the  first  group 
would  come  all  the  green  vegetables,  the  berries,  and 
other  watery  fruits  such  as  pears,  apples,  and  cherries. 
In  the  second  group  would  come  the  potatoes,  both 
white  and  sweet,  bananas,  and  some  tropical  fruits  such 
as  the  breadfruit.  Under  the  third  heading  we  would 
place  the  dried  fruits,  such  as  dates,  figs,  and  raisins. 
Another  way  of  grouping  the  vegetables  alone  would  be 
above  ground  and  below  ground.  And  still  a  third  way 
would  be  according  to  the  part  of  the  plant  that  is  used, 
as  roots  (beets,  carrots,  and  turnips),  stems  (asparagus 
and  celery),  leaves  (spinach,  beet  greens,  lettuce,  cab- 
bage, etc.),  flowers  (cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts),  and 
fruit  (tomato,  cucumber,  corn,  peas  and  beans,  etc.). 

For  cooking  purposes  it  is  somewhat  easier  to  divide 
them  into  the  two  groups  of  strong-juiced  and  sweet- 
Cooking  of  juiced.  Certain  vegetables  like  onions  and 
vegetables  cabbage  are  always  strong-juiced,  while 
others,  such  as  beets  and  carrots,  may  be  strong- juiced 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  149 

in  the  winter,  and  sweet- juiced  when  they  are  young 
and  fresh  from  the  home  garden.  Strong- juiced  vege- 
tables should  be  cooked  in  a  large  quantity  of  water  in 
order  to  modify  the  flavor,  and  the  water  may  be 
changed  once  or  even  twice  during  the  course  of  the 
cooking.  For  sweet- juiced  vegetables,  however,  the 
purpose  should  be  to  save  all  the  flavor  possible  so  that 
cooking  in  water  is  wasteful.  If  water  at  all  is  used,  as 
small  a  quantity  as  possible  to  keep  the  vegetables  from 
burning  is  all  that  is  necessary  and  this  should  be  made 
into  a  sauce  and  served  with  the  vegetable.  If  a  larger 
quantity  of  water  is  required  as  for  corn  and  asparagus, 
it  should  be  boiling  when  the  vegetable  is  put  in,  and 
drained  off  just  as  soon  as  the  vegetable  is  tender.  It 
takes  far  less  time  than  is  usually  supposed  to  cook 
these  vegetables  sufficiently.  Water  in  which  vegetables 
are  cooked  can  be  used  in  making  soup  or  in  gravies. 
Boiling  vegetables  is  necessarily  a  wasteful  way  of 
cooking  them  since  the  mineral  salts  for  which  they 
are  particularly  valuable  in  the  diet  are  partially  lost 
in  the  water.  It  is  better  to  steam  them  or  bake  them. 
In  fact,  a  properly  baked  potato  is  the  only  form  in 
which  a  potato  should  be  given  to  a  very  young  child 
or  an  invalid.  If  a  fork  is  run  into  the  potato  when  it  is 
taken  from  the  oven,  it  allows  the  steam  to  escape  and 
prevents  the  potato  from  becoming  soggy  as  it  cools. 

The  aesthetic  qualities  of  fruit  are  the  ones  that  are 
emphasized  since  the  purpose  of  the  fruit  by  nature  is  to 
insure  the  scattering  of  the  seed,  hence  it 
is  highly  colored  and  flavored  in  order  to 
attract  birds  and  insects.  We  have  then  certain  defi- 
nite uses  for  fruit  in  the  diet  besides  the  ones  we  have 
already  mentioned.   They  are  a  valuable  source  of 


e»fl  ."3 
I     * 

%  B 

|   4-> 

*d 

2J 

0) 

3 

a 
O 


CD 
•d     £ 

re    a) 


CJ  g 

$  *d 

-a  12 

3    ro 

.TO    ,3 

vh     en 


re  «<2 


cu  TJ 

a  re 

CO 

IS 

ft,  u 


.£> 

8 

re 

3 
U 

CO 

<u 

-d 

0) 

o 

3 

+J 

3 

re 

£ 

£ 

re 

CO 
0) 

to 

CD 

.3 

•~3 

cu 

+-> 

.3 

.3 

'6 

£ 

u 

^ 

u. 

aT 

CD 

O 

u 

#o 

3 

*3 

4-T 

re 

re 

CO 

3 

cu 

3 

re  x<y 

73  3 

CO  TO 


8*3 


+->    .3  «3 


PQ 


a 


CX'3 

re   S 
•8  o 


3 

'3 

O 

I 

M 

r^     bfl'o     bfl    bfl    bfl    bfl    bfl 

.S  2  .2  .S  :S  .S  -2 
"8  8  'S  "°  "S  *o  *8 

PQ  t/5  PQ  PQ  PQ  PQ  PQ 


lO    CD     ""> 


T? 


•£  3 

CO  o 

u  JS 

O  .  . 


.  .  .  4 

3    3    3    « 

3 

'S  '8  'e  g> 

s 

mo   ol3 

0 

T*"  V5  ?"  s 

rO   CM    CO   £ 

3 

HH 

bfl   bfl   bo 

"s 

bfl 

3     3     3     aT 

3 

3  J3  32     c 

0 

1-3 

"0  '0  '3  £ 

PQ  PQ  PQ  £ 

to 

'0 
PQ 

o 


i 


I 


bfl  bfl 
3    3 


O    O 

PQ  PQ 


bfl 

.5 
'o 


•p-p 


o 
en    3    to 

.5  S  .S 
I  B  -I  IS  8 

^  *>    O  ">    co 
"*|    co"   Oh   aT   co* 

r?  73   _-  "re  "re 

CDCJCDCDCDCDCD 

3    TO    3    3    3    3    3 


•5b 
o 


>  > 


CO      CO 

"re  *ro 


*g   re 


3    3 

re   rt 


>  >  *>  '> 


cu 


cu    cu 
3    3 


-M      3     -M      CS 

o   cu   o   S3 

co  ,3    co  IS    to    co 

CU      U      CU     y      CU      CU 

.S  bo.S  j^.S  .s 
6  §  S  I  S  6 

S  I  is  §  n  n 

J2  ^  ^2  £  -2  -2 

Ill  II I 


5   c 

3    cu 
bfl  <u 


o    o    a)    cu 

,     _     O     O     C     »-. 

OOjOp^p^OO 


3  3 

■^  ^    &  <u 

2   2   cu  cu 

Q   *5   £  4? 

«  ff{  o  o 


cu  cu  J5  -y 

CU  CU  *-2  g 

»s  m  3  q 

O  O  PQ  Pf4 


P^ 


cu 

bfl 
.5 

bfl 

3 

co  .25 

3  43 
bfl^ 

re   3 

"C  »rl 

3 
O 
>^ 

co" 

co 

a 
0 
+-» 

CD 

bfl 

a  re 

re    cu 

0) 

0) 

CO      CU 

cu    cu 

OJ 

cu 

re 

<  PQ  PQ  PQ  PQ  PQ  CJ 


bfl 

3 

2  o  u 

•s  R|j 

co"   oT   O 

fc  fc  3  J{ 

OJ     TO'     TO     CD 

UUUU 


bfl 
bfl 

w 


3 


&£ 


3    >» 
OO 


"3    3 


a 

a 

cu 

a 

-o 

3 

a 

+-> 

If 

1 

i 

S 

& 

§ 

cu 

CO 

fc 

a> 

fc 

4-> 

a> 

3 

a> 

PQ  en 


o 

01 

d 

0) 

a 

•8 

of 

«+J 

u 

•w 

-M 

T3 

0) 

O 

•i-T 

i 

.s  g 

3  w 

CO 

T3 

-o 

CJ     <y 

i 

V-   .tJ 
O  J3 

IS 

3 

di 

■s 

■s 

.*-* 

O 

u 

3 

8.8 

.J*    o 

O     CN 


•d 

.43 

CJ 

u 

c   c   O 

e  g  o 

s'e£ 

"B  8.5 

bfl 

.s 

3^1 
4  o^ 

"S 

CO     CN     .,_, 

cO   ^    4-> 

Vh 

bfl   bfl   g 

c 

bio  bp  S    « 

O 

c  .5  xj 

2 

.S  .9  -a  £J 

cu 

3S     OJ 

•a 

3*  «    <u  "O 

fl 

rt    O    H 

to     O     J- 

o 

PQ  PQ  < 

(3  «  < 

£ 

&j*  s 

3  a, 

u    W    T 
JS>4 

.s  *  v.* 

6    be  cu    g 
CO -g     * 

PQ 


lOj-. 

"c3 


■M 

01    o        r3 


■  IS 

PQ 


CD     CU 

+j 

-O  .3 

ccj 

fl      CO 

£ 

d 

3 
O 

d£ 

8 

d 

g    O 

10 

s 

8  ■* 

'i't 

bo 
.S 

0 

cj    <5 

0  & 

tN 

<U   CO 

CO  cu 

*o 

(/) 

C/) 

M 

8 1-3 

»~»        TO        L. 

•5*  .t!    5 

^  >  .8 
*S  »8  ,„ 

<a  — 1  co 

.£  £  8 


1  il 


cu 

3 

1 

u 

a 

CO 

tuO 

cu 

3 

3 

CO 

8 

-C 

01 

u 

1- 

R) 

> 

+J 

m 

<3 

<u    ^ 


S  -d  -d 

TO"3 

>  «*;   cu 
w  "2  s    - 

»-    O  -3    co 
Ci     o     fT3     <u 

cu    W>  cu  .8 

.8  -s  .8  £ 


8      £ 


O 


to 

cu 

3 

d 

3 

8 

8 

8 

Vm 

CTj 

CU 

+_> 

+J 

> 

a! 

"> 

«r 

£ 

CO* 

cu 
3 

"c3 

s 

^jg 


?  s 

cu    O 

Pw  Ph 


o   8 


CO 

a> 

J3 

^3 

O 

.d 

CO 

p^ 

3 

CO 

cti 

3 

cr 

C73 

ui  cu 

^  S  2  & 

S'E  8  £ 

&  r°  P 


152     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

water  as  all  know  well  who  have  enjoyed  a  juicy  Bart- 
lett  pear  on  a  hot  summer  day.  They  also  are  a  means 
of  introducing  salts  and  organic  acids  into  the  diet 
which  improve  the  quality  of  the  blood  and  react 
favorably  upon  the  secretions.  Certain  fruits  are  used 
to  prevent  scurvy,  such  as  apples,  lemons,  oranges,  and 
limes,  while  others  have  a  definite  medicinal  effect,  as 
diuretics  and  laxatives.  They  are  particularly  valuable 
as  stimulants  to  the  appetite,  to  improve  the  digestion, 
and  to  give  variety  to  the  diet.  Unripe  or  overripe  fruit 
has  a  poisoning  effect  upon  the  digestive  tract  since 
it  irritates  the  intestines.  Cooking  tends  to  soften  the 
woody  fiber,  cooks  whatever  starch  may  be  present, 
and  changes  the  pectin  or  jelly-forming  substance  into 
its  gelatinous  form.  Much  the  same  effect  is  produced 
in  the  ripening  process;  the  fruit  becomes  less  acid,  the 
starch  present  turns  to  sugar  and  the  pectin  becomes 
pectose,  a  form  of  carbohydrate.  For  this  reason  fruit 
for  jelly-making  should  be  taken  before  it  is  fully  ripe. 
Fruit  juices  which  do  not  contain  much  jellying 
property  in  themselves  may  be  used  for  making  jelly 
.  by  the  addition  of  pure  pectin  prepared 

from  orange  skin  in  the  following  way. 
Take  the  white  part  of  orange  skin  and  grind  it  in  a 
meat-chopper.  To  one  cup  of  this  pulp  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon.  Let  it  stand  for  one  hour.  Add  two  cups  of 
water,  boil  five  minutes.  Let  it  stand  overnight.  In  the 
morning  add  four  cups  of  water,  boil  ten  minutes, 
strain,  and  bottle.  If  it  is  to  be  kept  for  some  time,  it 
should  be  sterilized  before  bottling.  It  is  possible  to 
make  two  and  even  three  extractions  from  the  original 
pulp  although  each  succeeding  one  will  be  less  strong. 
When  using  this  pectin,  an  equal  amount  of  fruit  juice 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  153 

and  the  pectin  extract  should  be  taken  and  half  as 
much  sugar  again  as  the  total  quantity  of  juice  and 
pectin. 

In  order  to  find  out  if  the  fruit  juice  contains  pectin, 
one  teaspoonful  of  the  juice  may  be  mixed  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  alcohol.  If  a  heavy  mass  is  formed  there 
is  sufficient  pectin  present  in  the  juice  to  form  a  jelly 
when  used  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar.  If  it  forms 
only  a  thin  mass,  only  two  thirds  or  three  quarters  as 
much  sugar  as  juice  can  be  used.  And  if  it  forms  no 
mass  at  all,  the  pectin  extract  will  have  to  be  used. 

VEGETABLE  RECIPES 
TOMATO  SOUP 

(To  be  made  in  quantity  and  canned) 
7  quarts  ripe  tomatoes  3  onions 

7  stalks  celery,  tops  and  all         1/2  pound  butter 
7  cloves  7  tablespoons  flour 

1  large  pepper  with  seeds  7  tablespoons  sugar 

2  bay  leaves  7  teaspoons  salt 

3  sprigs  parsley 

Cook  the  vegetables  and  seasonings  together  one  half 
hour.  Strain,  and  add  the  butter  and  flour  well  mixed 
together,  sugar,  and  salt. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP 

1  pound  meat  3  potatoes 

1/2  cup  carrots  I  cup  tomatoes 

1  onion  3  tablespoons  rice 
Salt  and  pepper 

Wash  the  meat,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  let  it  soak  in  5  cups 
cold  water  for  1  hour.  Cook  in  the  same  water,  adding  more 
as  necessary.  When  the  meat  is  partly  cooked  add  the  vege- 


154     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

tables  cut  in  small  pieces  and  the  rice,  and  cook  until  tender. 
Add  the  seasoning.  Any  vegetable  may  be  substituted.  If 
the  vegetables  have  been  cooked  do  not  add  until  the  meat 
is  tender. 

POTATO  SOUP 

3  tablespoons  fat  2  cups  water 

2  cups  milk  Pepper 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  mashed  potatoes 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Combine  in  given  order.  Rub  through  sieve  before  serving. 

VEGETABLE  CHOWDER 

To  above  soup  add  2  cups  cooked  potato  cubes  instead 
of  mashed  potatoes,  also  1/2  cup  cooked  carrot  cubes,  1/2 
cup  cooked  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  I  /2  small  chopped 
onion.  Season  to  taste. 

MASHED  POTATOES  —  COMPANY  STYLE 

Cook  in  salted  water  and  mash  thoroughly.  Season  with 
2  tablespoons  butter,  1/3  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  pepper, 
and  chopped  parsley  to  each  quart  of  potato.  Put  through 
potato-ricer  into  baking-dish.  Reheat  and  brown  slightly  in 
hot  oven.  Half  may  be  riced  into  dish  and  half  put  on  with 
pastry  bag  and  tube.  Left-over  potatoes  may  be  used. 

CHAMBERY  POTATOES 

Pare  and  slice  thinly  raw  potatoes.  Put  in  shallow  baking- 
dish  with  seasonings,  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  and  butter. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  till  all  are  soft  and  top  layer  is  slightly 
browned  and  crisped;  about  45  minutes. 

KENTUCKY  POTATOES 

Prepare  as  in  above  recipe,  adding  milk  to  practically 
cover  the  potatoes.  Bake  in  covered  dish  one  hour  and 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  155 

without  cover  for  15  to  20  minutes.  One  chopped  pepper 
may  be  added. 

STUFFED  BAKED  POTATOES 

Bake  large  potatoes  till  soft.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and 
remove  centers,  using  spoon.  Mash  centers  with  fork,  season 
well,  and  combine  with  one  tablespoon  chopped  meat  or 
flaked  fish  to  each  potato  or  2  teaspoons  grated  cheese  or 
chopped  nuts.  Refill,  packing  in  roughly.  Reheat  and  brown 
in  hot  oven. 

DELMONICO  POTATOES 

3  tablespoons  melted  fat  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  cups  milk  I  1/2  teaspoons  salt 
Pepper  2  cups  cooked  potato  cubes 

1/2  cup  grated  cheese  Crumbs  if  desired 

Make  milk  sauce  of  first  ingredients.  Arrange  in  baking- 
dish,  with  crumbs  on  top  if  used. 

MOTHER'S  SCALLOPED  POTATOES 

5  large  potatoes  2  tablespoons  flour 

1/2  cup  hot  water  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

4  tablespoons  butter  , 

Pare  the  potatoes  and  slice  thin  crosswise.  In  a  baking- 
dish  put  a  layer  of  potatoes,  then  one  of  small  bits  of  butter, 
the  seasonings,  and  a  sprinkle  of  flour.  So  continue  until 
potatoes  are  used.  Let  the  last  layer  be  of  butter  and  sprinkle 
of  flour.  Moisten  well  with  hot  water.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
30  to  40  minutes. 

VEGETABLE  HASH 

2  cups  potatoes  (cooked)  2  onions  (chopped  fine) 

1  cup  dried  beans  (cooked)         4  tablespoons  fat 
I  cup  carrots  (cooked) 
Any  other  cooked  vegetables  may  be  added. 


156     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cut  the  vegetables  in  small  pieces,  then  mix  them.  Season 
them  with  salt  and  pepper  and  moisten  with  a  little  water. 
Melt  the  fat  in  the  frying-pan,  add  the  hash,  and  spread 
evenly.  Cover  the  pan  and  place  where  the  hash  will  not 
burn.  When  cooked  about  twenty  minutes  fold  and  turn  on 
a  hot  plate.  The  hash  should  have  a  brown  crust. 

CREAMED  EGGS  AND  POTATO 

In  small  baking-dishes  place  layer  of  cooked  spinach,  next, 
layer  of  hard-cooked  eggs,  in  cream  or  milk  sauce  and  third, 
layer  of  well-seasoned  mashed  potato  to  cover.  Brown  in 
hot  oven. 

POTATOES  GOLDENROD 

2  tablespoons  cooking  oil         i  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1  cup  milk  I  teaspoon  salt 

Pepper  I  cup  potato  cubes  (cooked) 

2  egg-whites  (hard-cooked)      2  egg-yolks  (hard-cooked) 

Prepare  milk  sauce,  add  potato  and  whites,  cut  in  small 
pieces.  Put  into  serving-dish  and  add  hard-cooked  yolks, 
putting  through  bowl  sieve. 

BAKED  CHEESE  AND  PIMENTO  POTATO 

Slice  i  1 1 2  quarts  potatoes  and  boil  in  salted  water  until 
just  done.  Put  in  baking-dish  and  season  with  onion,  chopped 
pimentos,  pepper,  and  salt.  Cover  with  cheese  sauce,  and 
bake  about  20  minutes. 

CORN  AND  POTATO  LOAF 

2  cups  corn  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  mashed  potatoes  I  egg 

2  tablespoons  drippings  Onion  juice 

Bake  30  minutes  and  serve  with  milk  sauce. 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  157 

ASPARAGUS  LOAF 

2  tablespoons  butter  or  other  fat 
2  tablespoons  flour 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 
Dash  pepper 

1  cup  cream 

2  tablespoons  chicken  chopped  fine 
1  cup  cooked  asparagus  tips 

4  eggs 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour  and  seasonings,  add  the 
cream,  and  let  come  to  the  boiling  point.  When  boiling  add 
the  cold  chicken,  the  asparagus  tips,  and  the  eggs  well 
beaten,  whites  and  yolks  together.  Turn  into  an  earthen 
bowl  or  mold,  thickly  buttered  and  lined  with  asparagus. 
Cook  standing  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  center  is  firm.  Do 
not  allow  the  water  around  the  mold  to  boil.  Let  it  stand  a 
few  minutes  after  removing  from  the  oven,  and  invert  over 
the  serving-dish.  Serve  with  cream  sauce.  Asparagus  tips 
and  a  few  well-chopped  mushrooms  are  an  improvement 
to  the  flavor  of  the  sauce. 

CABBAGE  AND  RICE 

I  small  head  of  cabbage  2  tablespoons  flour 

I  1/2  cups  cooked  rice  1/2  cup  nut  butter 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  I  1/2  pints  milk 

Cut  cabbage  in  i-inch  pieces,  removing  all  hard  stalks. 
Put  on  to  boil,  adding  salt,  and  cook  until  soft.  Have  the 
rice  ready  which  has  been  boiled  in  salted  water.  Make  a 
cream  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour,  and  milk.  Drain  the  cab- 
bage and  the  rice,  put  in  buttered  baking-dish  in  alternate 
layers  with  cream  sauce  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  the 
last  layer  sauce.  Bake  15  or  20  minutes,  and  serve. 


158    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE 

Remove  leaves,  cut  off  stalk,  and  soak  30  minutes  (head 
down)  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Cook  (head  up)  20  minutes  or 
until  soft  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain  and  serve  with 
Hollandaise  sauce. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE 

2  teaspoons  butter  Cayenne 

2  teaspoons  flour  3/4  cup  milk 

I  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  as  white  sauce 

Pour  hot  mixture  over  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Return 
to  double  boiler  and  cook  like  custard.  Remove  from  fire 
and  add  2  tablespoons  butter  and  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice. 

CELERY  RAMEKINS 

1  cup  milk  6  tablespoons  grated  celery  root 

1  cup  bread  crumbs      1/4  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  fat  2  eggs 

Heat  milk,  add  bread  crumbs  and  grated  celery  root.  Let 
it  come  to  a  boil.  Add  butter,  and  most  of  the  salt.  Beat 
whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  adding  rest  of  salt  to 
whites.  Add  the  mixture  to  the  yolks.  Cut  and  fold  in  the 
whites.  Put  in  ramekins  and  bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  slow 
oven,  browning  before  taking  out. 

CORN  OYSTERS 

Grate  raw  corn  from  cobs  or  chop  canned  corn,  adding  a 
little  milk.  To  one  cup  pulp  add  one  well-beaten  egg,  1  /4  cup 
flour,  and  season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls and  fry  in  deep  fat,  or  cook  on  a  hot,  well-greased  griddle. 
They  should  be  made  about  the  size  of  large  oysters. 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  159 

CORN  PUDDING  FROM  FRESH  CORN 

I  dozen  ears  corn,  grated 
1  cup  milk 
I  teaspoon  sugar 
1  /4  teaspoon  salt  or  more  to  taste 

Bake  in  buttered  pudding-dish  1  hour. 

CREOLE  CORN  FRITTERS 

I  dozen  ears  corn,  grated        4  to  6  tablespoons  flour 

I  egg,  beaten  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  all  together.  Fry  in  beef  drippings,  oil,  or  bacon  fat, 
dropping  the  mixture  from  the  end  of  a  spoon,  browning  it 
and  turning  it  like  cakes. 

BAKED  RIPE  CUCUMBER 

Cut  cucumbers  in  two  lengthwise,  discard  seeds,  etc.,  par- 
boil in  hot  water  until  tender.  Fill  center  and  heap  up  with 
moist  crumbs  seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  onion 
juice.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

SCALLOPED  EGGPLANT 

I  eggplant  2  tablespoons  butter 

I  tablespoon  lemon  juice  Salt  and  pepper 

I  tablespoon  chopped  or  Buttered  crumbs  for  top 
grated  onion 

Peel  and  cut  into  inch  cubes.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  cook  slowly  for  10  or  15  minutes.  Drain  in  colander. 
Fry  the  onion  in  the  butter,  add  all  the  other  ingredients  and 
eggplant.  In  a  buttered  baking-dish  place  layers  of  egg- 
plant and  white  sauce,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
bake  from  20  to  30  minutes. 

FRIED  EGGPLANT 

Pare  and  cut  in  slices  about  1/3  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg  and  then  in  seasoned  bread  crumbs.  Brown  on 


160     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

both  sides  in  a  little  hot  fat  in  frying-pan  (olive  oil  preferred) 
or  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on  paper  and  serve. 

STUFFED  EGGPLANT 

Put  eggplant,  whole,  into  boiling  water,  boil  20  to  30 
minutes,  or  until  tender.  Cut  it  in  two  and  scoop  out  the 
center  leaving  a  wall  1/2  inch  thick.  Mash  or  chop  the 
center,  mix  with  it 

1/2  cup  bread  crumbs         1/2  tablespoon  chopped 
1/4  to  1/2  cup  nuts  chopped  parsley 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  1/2  teaspoon  summer  sa- 

Pepper  vory 

I  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Stuff  the  eggplant,  heaping  it  up  on  top.  Bake  this  in 
moderate  oven  about  1  hour,  basting  once  or  twice  with 
melted  butter. 

PEA  SOUFFLE' 

4  tablespoons  flour  3  eggs 

4  tablespoons  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  skimmed  milk  1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

I  cup  mashed  cooked  peas  Few  drops  onion  juice 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  flour,  fat,  and  milk.  Mash  the  cooked 
peas  to  a  pulp.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately. 
Mix  the  pulp,  seasonings,  sauce,  and  well-beaten  yolks.  Fold 
in  stiffly  beaten  whites,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm. 

MOLD  OF  PEAS  OR  BEANS 

1  pound  green  or  wax  '  l  cup  milk 
beans  or  peas  3  eggs 

1/4  onion  Grated  cheese 

Sprig  parsley  2  tablespoons  butterine,  or  oil 

I  tablespoon  flour 

String  the  beans  and  blanch  them  by  throwing  them  into 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  161 

boiling  water.  As  soon  as  the  water  has  boiled  again,  drain 
the  beans  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Fry  the  finely 
chopped  onion,  parsley,  and  celery  in  I  tablespoon  of  oil, 
add  the  beans  when  the  onion  is  golden-colored,  letting  the 
beans  absorb  the  oil.  Add  just  enough  water  to  keep  beans 
from  burning,  and  let  simmer  until  tender.  Make  a  white 
sauce  of  the  milk,  flour,  and  fat.  Beat  the  eggs;  let  the  beans 
and  sauce  cool.  Then  add  the  eggs,  beans,  and  a  few  table- 
spoons of  grated  cheese  to  the  white  sauce.  Pour  into  a  but- 
tered mold,  bake  like  a  custard  in  a  pan  of  water  until  firm, 
and  serve  hot. 

STUFFED  AND  BAKED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Cut  the  stem  ends  from  6  green  peppers.  Remove  seeds 
and  pith  and  parboil  in  hot  water.  Stew  I  cup  tomatoes, 

1  slice  onion,  I  bay  leaf,  3  peppercorns,  1/2  tablespoon 
sugar,  1/2  teaspoon  salt  for  15  minutes.  Strain  and  mix  with 

2  cups  boiled  rice.  Stuff  peppers  with  this  mixture,  place 
upright  in  pan,  and  place  tops  on  peppers.  Pour  around  them 
I  1/2  cups  of  tomato  sauce  and  baste  with  it  several  times 
while  baking.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

MOLD  OF  SPINACH 

I  cup  milk  2  cups  boiled  spinach 

1  tablespoon  butterine  3  eggs 

I  tablespoon  flour  Brown  stock 

Grated  cheese  Salt  and  pepper 

Make  a  smooth  white  sauce  of  the  milk,  butter,  and  flour, 
letting  it  cook  until  it  is  thick,  then  add  the  cooked  spinach, 
a  few  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  the  eggs  beaten,  a  few 
tablespoons  of  brown  stock  (or  a  bouillon  cube  dissolved  in 
hot  water),  and  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  a  but- 
tered mold.  Steam  as  a  custard  until  firm,  and  serve  either 
as  it  is  or  with  tomato  sauce. 


162    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

SQUASH  SOUFFLE 

2  cups  mashed  and  seasoned  squash 

1  cup  milk 

2  eggs 

Add  the  milk  to  the  well-seasoned  squash,  gradually. 
When  thoroughly  blended,  add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten 
until  thick.  Fold  in  the  whites  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  firm. 

BAKED  TOMATOES 

Wipe  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from  stem  end  of  6  smooth 
medium-sized  tomatoes.  Take  out  seeds  and  pulp  and  drain 
off  most  of  the  liquid.  Add  equal  quantities  of  cracker  or 
bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  or  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice,  and  refill  tomatoes  with  mixture.  Place 
in  a  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake 
20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

FRIED  TOMATOES  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING 

Cut  tomatoes,  either  green  or  ripe,  in  thick  slices.  Melt 
fat  in  frying-pan  with  I  teaspoon  salt.  When  slightly 
brown,  fry  the  slices  of  tomato  until  tender.  Put  onto 
platter  and  pour  following  sauce  over  them. 

Sauce 

Heat  i/2  pint  cream  in  double  boiler.  Pour  onto  slightly 
beaten  egg.  Pour  cream  and  egg  into  fat  left  in  frying-pan. 
Cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly. 

SCALLOPED  GREEN  TOMATOES 

Put  in  a  baking-dish  a  layer  of  stale  but  not  dried  bread 
crumbs.  Add  a  little  salt,  a  little  white  pepper,  and  a  number 
of  small  pieces  of  butter.  Score  an  onion  and  sprinkle  part 
of  it  over  the  crumbs.  On  this  put  a  layer  of  sliced  green 


FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES  163 

tomatoes.  Add  more  salt,  more  pepper,  a  little  more  onion, 
and  3  or  4  generous  tablespoons  of  granulated  sugar.  Then 
add  another  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  with  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
and  a  little  onion.  Repeat  the  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes 
and  bread  crumbs  until  the  dish  is  heaped  high,  as  it  cooks 
down  a  good  deal.  Put  some  bread  crumbs  on  top.  Put  a 
pie  plate  on  top  to  press  the  fruit  down  and  bake  slowly  for 
at  least  an  hour.  When  the  juice  begins  to  ooze  out,  take 
off  the  cover  and  let  it  brown.  A  little  tarragon  is  a  good 
addition. 


CHAPTER  XI 
FATS 

Fats  are  similar  to  carbohydrates  in  their  general  com- 
position since  they  are  made  up  of  carbon,  hydrogen, 
and  oxygen,  but  these  latter  are  not  in  the  proportion 
to  form  water.  There  is  a  relatively  small  amount  of 
oxygen  in  fat  which  causes  a  large  amount  of  heat  to  be 
evolved  in  combustion.  For  this  reason,  fats  are  the 
chief  source  of  heat  and  energy  in  the  body.  They  also 
serve  as  a  covering  and  protection  for  the  body.  They 
act  as  lubricants  and  spare  the  tissues  from  disintegra- 
tion. They  may  also  serve  as  a  means  of  storing  surplus 
energy.  A  person  whose  body  is  well  protected  by  a 
good  coating  of  fat  is  far  less  liable  to  be  irritated  by 
external  nerve  stimuli,  such  as  the  slamming  of  doors  or 
the  shouts  of  children,  than  one  whose  nerve  ends  are 
not  so  well  padded. 

All  fats  have  a  tendency  to  slow  down  the  whole 
process  of  digestion  while  those  having  a  lower  melting 
.  point  are  more  completely  digested  than 

those  remaining  solid  at  higher  tempera- 
tures. Any  discomfort  due  to  the  use  of  fat  is  caused  by 
improper  use  or  wrong  cooking.  When  too  large  a  quan- 
tity is  taken  at  a  time,  it  prevents  the  action  of  the 
digestive  secretions  on  other  foods,  particularly  those 
containing  protein  material.  For  this  reason  rich  pastry 
and  foods  fried  in  fat  should  never  be  given  to  children 
nor  invalids.  If  fats  are  overheated,  they  are  partially 
split  up,  and  produce  substances  which  are  irritating  to 


FATS  165 

the  mucous  membrane  lining  the  intestinal  tract.  It  is 
the  same  effect  that  is  produced  by  the  blue  smoke 
which  sometimes  comes  from  the  frying-pan  when  the 
fat  is  allowed  to  get  too  hot,  and  which  causes  the  eyes 
and  nose  to  water. 

The  quantity  of  fat  used  in  this  country  is  far  higher 
than  the  European  consumption  and  much  higher  than 
the  individual  requires.  It  has  been  com-  Need  to 
puted  that  the  waste  of  fat  in  America  is  save  fats 
excessive.  We  should  use  only  enough  to  make  the  food 
palatable  and  not  allow  any  to  go  into  the  garbage  pail 
nor  down  into  the  kitchen  drain.  Mr.  Hoover,  in  his 
speech  on  November  11,  19 18,  in  Washington,  before 
the  workers  of  the  Food  Administration,  said  that 
there  was  a  great  shortage  in  the  supplies  needed  by 
the  whole  world,  particularly  in  dairy  products,  pork 
products,  and  vegetable  oils.  He  said  that  the  world 
would  be  deficient  in  fats  for  two  or  three  years  at  least 
and  that  intense  economy  in  the  use  of  fats  in  this 
country  was  absolutely  necessary.  Nine  months  after 
the  signing  of  the  armistice,  the  people  of  England  were 
still  on  their  extremely  low  ration  of  fats  with  small 
prospect  of  immediate  relief.  This  was  a  half-pound  of 
butter  and  a  pound  of  oleomargarine  per  person  per 
month,  whereas  we  use  in  this  country  an  average  of  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  per  person  per  day  not  including 
waste. 

All  fats  are  very  similar  chemically  since  they  are 
combinations  of  glycerine  and  fatty  acids.  Each  fat  is 
made  up  of  two  or  more  of  such  combina-  Nature  of 
tions  formed  from  fatty  acids.  These  are  fats 
steps  in  a  long  chemical  series.    Those  which  contain 
certain  steps  of  the  series  are  solid  at  ordinary  temper- 


1 66    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

ature,  while  those  that  contain  others  in  the  series  are 
oils.  Difference  in  flavor  or  color  is  due  to  impurities, 
since  a  pure  fat  is  pale  yellow  or  colorless  when  liquid, 
and  white  when  solid.  Because  they  vary  so  little  in 
their  composition,  the  ones  to  be  used  in  the  household 
are  those  which  keep  the  best  under  ordinary  condi- 
tions and  are  best  suited  to  the  purposes  for  which  they 
are  intended. 

Fat  occurs  in  the  diet  in  two  distinct  ways.  It  may 
either  be  a  component  part  of  the  food  itself  as  in  milk, 
meat,  and  certain  types  of  fish.  Or  it  may 
be  added  to  other  foods  in  cooking  and 
serving  as  butter,  salad  oils,  and  lard.  Both  of  these 
groups  should  be  considered  by  the  housekeeper.  The 
first  group  is  regulated  by  a  choice  of  the  foods  them- 
selves. Care  should  be  taken  to  combine  a  food  that  is 
in  itself  rich  in  fat,  as  cheese  or  shad,  with  foods  that 
do  not  contain  much  fat ;  or  else  other  fats  should  not 
be  served  at  the  same  meal.  One  would  not  think  of 
serving  tartare  sauce  with  mackerel  or  shad  though  this 
is  almost  a  necessity  with  smelts  or  filet  of  flounder. 
Nor  would  one  desire  a  rich  dessert  like  a  suet  pudding 
or  heavy  ice-cream  after  roast  pork,  or  even  a  salad 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Too  often  are  we  served 
meals  in  which  there  is  a  dash  of  whipped  cream  on  the 
soup,  a  tartare  sauce  with  the  fish,  a  rich  gravy  with  the 
meat,  mayonnaise  with  the  salad,  and  ice-cream  or 
whipped  cream  for  dessert. 

When  we  come  to  the  second  group  of  fats,  those 
which  are  added  to  the  foods  in  cooking  or  serving,  we 
find  there  is  a  large  region  of'  choice  and  plenty  of 
room  for  economy.  These  fats  can  be  considered  in 
two  groups ;  those  that  are  served  at  the  table,  such  as 


FATS  167 

butter  and  salad  oils,  and  those  that  are  used  in  the 

kitchen   either  as  a  medium  for  cooking  as  in  frying 

or  sauteing,  or  are  added  to  foods  as  shortening.     In 

order  to  save  fats  at  the  table,  as  small  a  quantity  as 

possible  should  be  served  at  a  time.  Butter  m  „ ,   , 

Table  fats 
is  too  costly  to  be  used  for  cooking  in  the 

ordinary  household,  and  yet  any  pieces  that  are  left  on 
the  bread  and  butter  plates  at  the  table  cannot  be  used 
in  any  other  way.  The  question  of  salad  oil  depends 
upon  the  tastes  of  the  family.  There  are  those  who 
feel  that  they  would  prefer  to  have  olive  oil  for  their 
salads  even  though  it  means  going  without  some  other 
food.  Cottonseed  oil  and  corn  oil  such  as  are  found  on  the 
market  to-day  both  make  very  satisfactory  salad  dress- 
ings and  are  much  less  expensive  than  the  olive  oil. 

There  are  innumerable  fats  which  can  be  used  in 
cooking,  although  every  housekeeper  has  her  own  fa- 
vorite. Some  of  these  are  of  animal  origin 
and  some  of  vegetable.  Aside  from  the 
dairy  fats,  butter  and  cream,  which  are  nowadays  used 
almost  exclusively  at  the  table  and  not  for  cooking, 
lard  is  perhaps  the  most  popular  of  the  animal  fats. 
Leaf  lard  is  rendered  from  the  fat  around  the  kidneys 
of  hogs.  It  has  a  moderately  low  melting 
point  and  therefore  is  easily  handled  as  a 
shortening.  It  should  be  white  in  color  and  free  from 
taste  or  smell.  Beef  fat  or  suet  is  harder  than  butter  or 
lard  and  is  somewhat  highly  flavored.  The  flavor  can 
be  improved  by  rendering  and  the  fat  itself  made  softer 
by  mixing  it  with  oil  or  lard.  Mutton  fat  is  another  hard 
fat  and  because  of  its  strong  flavor  is  used  more  for 
soap-making  than  as  a  household  fat.  The  fat  of  poul- 
try, either  fowl  or  goose,  resembles  butter  and  lard  in  its 


168    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

consistency  and  can  be  well  used  as  shortening  in  such 
breadstuffs  as  gingerbread  and  pie  crust  where  the 
color  will  not  be  noticeable. 

There  has  been  much  discussion  as  to  the  advisabil- 
ity of  the  use  of  oleomargarine  for  a  cooking  fat.  It  is  a 
Oleomar-  perfectly  wholesome,  pure  fat  when  made 
garine  under  the  best  conditions  in  the  large 

packing-houses.  It  is  a  mixture  of  other  fats  in  an  at- 
tempt to  obtain  a  fat  with  the  consistency  of  butter  at 
a  lower  price.  The  basis  for  oleomargarine  is  a  soft  beef 
fat  which  is  mixed  with  neutral  lard,  cottonseed,  and 
other  oils.  The  mixture  is  finally  churned  with  milk  or 
cream,  salted,  and  worked  like  butter.  Under  the  law, 
any  fat  that  contains  other  substances  than  pure  butter 
fat,  no  matter  in  how  small  a  quantity,  is  classed  as 
oleomargarine  and  is  taxed  accordingly.  The  colored 
oleomargarine  carries  a  higher  tax  than  that  which  is 
left  colorless,  so  that  it  is  cheaper  to  buy  the  colorless 
and  if  desired,  color  it  at  home. 

Fats  are  now  being  extracted  from  many  oil-bearing 
seeds  and  fruits.  They  must  be  purified  to  get  rid  of 
disagreeable  flavors,  dirt,  and  any  harm- 
ful matter  which  they  may  contain.  The 
seeds  are  cleaned  and  subjected  to  hydraulic  pressure.  If 
hot-pressed,  the  oil  extracted  must  be  refined.  Olive  oil 
has  always  been  the  favorite  but  will  undoubtedly  re- 
main high-priced  as  the  olive  orchards  in  Italy  were  cut 
down  to  a  large  extent  during  the  war  for  fuel  for  the 
munition  factories,  and  it  takes  many,  many  years  to 
grow  olive  trees.  Cottonseed  oil  has  been  on  the  market 
for  many  years  and  is  the  basis  for  a  wide  variety  of 
fats  and  salad  oils.  There  is  little  choice  between  this 
and  corn  oils  although  some  prefer  one  and  some  the 


FATS  169 

other.  Peanut  oil  has  been  used  extensively  in  Europe 
both  for  a  table  oil  and  for  cooking.  It  is  usually  pro- 
duced by  the  cold-press  method  so  that  the  character- 
istic flavor  is  not  noticeable.  Cocoanut  oil  and  other 
palm  oils  are  used  in  cooking,  especially  by  bakeries. 
With  the  great  shortage  of  fats,  oils  have  been  ex- 
tracted from  other  seeds,  the  soy  bean,  sunflower,  and 
sesame,  and  from  nuts,  also  from  the  pits  of  apricots, 
peaches,  and  cherries. 

In  recent  months  there  have  been  a  number  of  color- 
less fats  on  the  market  under  different  trade  names 
known  as  nut  butters  or  nut  margarines.  All  of  these 
are  probably  vegetable  oils  hardened  into  a  solid  by 
the  addition  of  hydrogen.  By  this  means  an  oil  may  be 
made  into  a  product  of  any  desired  hardness.  These  are 
not  to  be  confused  with  the  real  nut  butter  which  is 
prepared  by  the  grinding  of  the  entire  nut,  as  peanut 
butter  or  almond  paste. 

As  we  have  already  noticed,  the  "vitamine"  sub- 
stance known  as  "fat-soluble  A"  is  not  present  in 
oils  extracted  from  vegetables  and  nuts  place  in 
whereas  it  is  present  in  butter  and  to  a  the  **«* 
less  degree  in  animal  fats.  If  then  the  diet  is  very  much 
limited  in  the  use  of  green  vegetables,  fruit,  and  milk, 
there  might  be  a  dangerous  lack  of  this  element  essen- 
tial for  growth  if  these  so-called  nut  butters  were  used 
exclusively  by  the  family.  This  is  not  of  so  great  im- 
portance with  adults  as  it  is  with  growing  children. 
If  the  children  are  getting  at  least  a  pint  and  a  half 
of  whole  milk  a  day  and  a  green  vegetable  at  least 
once  a  day,  the  difference  in  the  fats  might  safely  be 
ignored. 

There  are  a  few  general  rules  which  can  be  followed 


170    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

in  every  household  in  order  to  avoid  waste  of  fats,  al- 
Rules  to  avoid  though  of  course  actual  practice  must  vary 
waste  of  fats  according  to  the  conditions  in  different 
homes.  In  cooking,  an  attempt  should  be  made  to  ob- 
tain the  best  quality  and  flavor  with  a  minimum  quan- 
tity of  fat.  No  more  fat  should  ever  be  used  than  the 
recipe  calls  for.  An  over-use  of  fatty  foods  should  be 
avoided,  especially  an  over-use  of  those  foods  that  are 
cooked  in  fat.  If  fats  are  used  for  sauteing,  those  which 
burn  less  easily  are  the  ones  to  be  chosen.  No  fat  should 
be  bought  for  cooking  so  long  as  there  is  fat  in  the  house 
that  can  be  utilized  for  that  purpose.  This  fat  can  be 
obtained  from  the  meat  which  comes  into  the  house, 
either  as  trimmings  or  from  the  drippings  in  the  roast- 
ing-pan.  By  the  way,  it  is  well  to  demand  from  the 
Rendering  butcher  the  trimmings  of  the  piece  of  meat 
of  fat  f or  which  we  have  paid  and  which  he  care- 

fully removes  as  being  unsightly  after  he  has  weighed 
the  piece.  The  fat  from  these  can  be  tried  out  or  ren- 
dered at  home  in  the  following  manner.  They  can  be 
cut  fine  with  the  meat-chopper  or  a  knife  and  heated 
for  several  hours  in  the  top  of  the  double  boiler  very 
slowly  until  completely  melted.  The  water  underneath 
should  only  be  lukewarm  as  otherwise  it  hardens  the 
connective  tissue  and  prevents  the  fat  from  melting 
out.  It  should  then  be  strained  through  thick  cloth  and 
put  away  for  further  use.  If  it  has  a  slight  odor  or 
flavor  which  it  is  desirable  to  remove,  it  may  be  heated 
with  milk,  two  pounds  of  fat  to  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
strained  and  cooled.  If  it  is  a  very  hard  fat,  such  as 
beef  or  mutton  suet,  it  can  be  softened  and  made  a 
better  consistency  for  shortening  by  adding  lard,  two 
parts  of  beef  suet  and  one  part  of  lard,  or  mixed 


FATS  171 

with  cottonseed  oil,  three  parts  of  suet  and  one  part 
of  oil. 

In  order  to  prevent  the  fats  thus  prepared  from  be- 
coming rancid,  they  should  be  protected  from  light, 
heat,  and  air.  The  fats  should  be  kept 

Care  of  fats 
tightly  covered  in  a  cool  dark  place. 

Home-rendered  fats  may  be  flavored  in  different 
ways  and  kept  separately  to  be  used  in  serving 
warmed-over  potatoes  and  different  kinds  of  vegeta- 
bles. These  savory  fats  may  also  be  used  in  the  thicken- 
ing for  gravies. 

SAVORY  FATS 

I.  1  pound  unrendered  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  slice  onion  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  broken  bay-leaves 

Spices  are  added  during  the  rendering  of  the  fat. 

II.  1  pound  unrendered  fat  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  thyme  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 
1  slice  onion 

Spices  are  added  during  the  rendering  of  the  fat. 

III.  I  pound  unrendered  fat       1/2  teaspoon  sage 
I  teaspoon  thyme  I  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  marjoram  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

Spices  are  added  during  the  rendering  of  the  fat. 

IV.  I  pound  rendered  fat  1  onion 

I  sour  apple  I  teaspoon  ground  thyme,  or  other 

sweet  herbs,  tied  in  a  cloth 

Add  flavors  to  fat  and  cook  until  apple  is  well  browned. 
Strain  though  cheesecloth. 


172     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

SALAD  DRESSINGS 
BOILED  DRESSING 

1/2  tablespoon  salt  Yolks  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  mustard       I  1/2  tablespoons  melted  fat 
I  1/2  tablespoons  sugar  3/4  cup  milk 

Few  grains  cayenne       1/4  cup  vinegar 
1/2  tablespoon  flour 

Melt  the  butter.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  mixed  together. 
Add  the  milk  and  stir  till  it  boils.  Pour  this  over  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  return  to  the  fire  until  it 
thickens.  Add  the  vinegar  hot  very  slowly.  Strain  and  cool. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  1/8  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  olive  oil  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

1/4  teaspoon  onion  juice 

Put  the  vinegar  in  a  cold  or  iced  cup  and  add  the  salt, 
pepper,  and  onion  juice.  Then  add  gradually  —  stirring 
meantime  —  the  olive  oil. 

CALIFORNIA  MAYONNAISE 
With  Corn  Oil,  Mazola,  or  any  other  Oil 

4  tablespoons  flour  1  cup  water 

2  tablespoons  oil  21/2  teaspoons  salt 
41/2  tablespoons  vinegar  or  1/8  teaspoon  cayenne 

other  acid 

Bring  to  boiling  point  and  boil  5  minutes.  Cool,  add  I  egg 
slightly  beaten,  then  1  cup  corn  oil  gradually,  beating  well 
while  oil  is  being  taken  up. 

Makes  one  and  one  half  pints. 


FATS  173 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING 
2  egg-yolks  1  teaspoon  mustard 

I  1/2  to  2  cups  olive  oil  I  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  vinegar       1/16  teaspoon  paprika 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Beat  the  yolk  of  the  egg,  add  the  cold  oil  drop  by  drop, 
beating  continually,  until  thick,  then  add  vinegar  and  lemon 
juice  until  thin.  Again  add  oil  until  thick,  and  thin  as  before. 
Repeat  this  operation  until  the  oil  has  been  added  and 
dressing  is  thick.  Mix  together  the  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper, 
and  stir  into  the  oil  and  egg.  Whipped  cream  may  be  added 
just  before  serving. 

If  the  dressing  is  to  be  made  on  a  warm  day  or  in  a  very 
warm  room,  have  the  ingredients  and  utensils  ice  cold. 
While  making  the  dressing  have  the  bowl  surrounded  by 
ice  water. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1/8  teaspoon  dry  mustard  I  teaspoon 

1/4  teaspoon  salt  2  teaspoons 

Speck  cayenne  1/16  teaspoon 

1  teaspoon  sugar  2  to  4  tablespoons 

1  rounding  tablespoon  egg  3  whole  or  7  yolks  (1/2  cup) 

1  tablespoon  hot  vinegar  1/2  cup 

2  tablespoons  cream,  I  cup 

sweet  or  sour 
3/4  teaspoon  butter  2  tablespoons 

Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  egg,  hot  vinegar,  and 
cream  in  order  given.  Put  mixture  in  a  double  boiler  and 
stir  constantly  until  thick ;  any  slight  curdling  may  be  made 
smooth  by  the  use  of  the  Dover  egg-beater.  To  stop  further 
cooking  put  the  saucepan  in  cold  water*  Stir  the  butter 
into  the  dressing  just  as  it  comes  from  the  fire. 


174    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

BOILED  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD 

Juice  I  lemon  1/4  cup  sugar 

Juice  1  orange  1  egg,  well  beaten 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  over  water  just  a  few  minutes.  When  cold  add  an 
equal  amount  of  whipped  cream. 

RUSSIAN  SALAD  DRESSING 

3  tablespoons  mayonnaise 
2  teaspoons  tarragon  vinegar 

2  teaspoons  horse-radish 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 
Salt,  paprika,  and  pepper  to  taste 

Add  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream.  Mix  thoroughly, 
then  add  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  chili  sauce  and  mix  all  well 
together  once  more. 

VEGETABLE  SALADS 
HOT  CABBAGE  SALAD 

1  small  head  cabbage,  shredded 

3  or  4  tabascos,  cut  fine 
3  hard-boiled  eggs 

3  tablespoons  capers  or  washed  currants 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
1  level  teaspoon  salt 
1  head  lettuce 

Shred  the  cabbage  fine  and  even.  Place  in  a  large  bowl 
and  stir  in  the  tabascos,  sugar,  and  salt,  and  allow  it  to  stand 
in  a  cool  place  for  30  minutes.  At  serving  time  make  a 
dressing  of  the  following: 

2  rounding  tablespoons  butter        1  pint  rich,  sweet  milk 

3  level  tablespoons  flour  1/2  cup  vinegar 


FATS  175 

Melt  the  butter,  fold  or  braid  in  the  flour  and  cook  until 
quite  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  vinegar  slowly. 

At  serving  time  pour  the  hot  dressing  over  the  cabbage, 
place  in  a  salad  bowl  on  a  bed  of  lettuce.  Have  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  cut  as  for  egg  vases,  with  scalloped  edges.  Bed 
them  in  the  salad  and  fill  them  with  the  capers  or  currants. 
Garnish  the  edges  with  radishes  cut  into  roses. 

PEA  SALAD 

1  can  small  peas  1/2  cup  English  walnuts,  cut 

I  scant  pint  mayonnaise  fine 

1/2  cup  almonds,  cut  fine        1/4  cup  currants 

Drain  the  liquor  from  the  peas,  and  allow  them  to  stand 
in  a  colander  some  six  hours.  Blanch  the  nuts  and  cut  them 
fine.  Toss  peas  and  nuts  together,  fold  in  the  dressing,  place 
in  a  chilled  salad  bowl,  in  pyramid  form.  Garnish  with  thick 
dressing  and  currants. 

POTATO  SALAD 

3  cups  cooked  potato  cubes        1  cooked  carrot,  grated 
I  cooked  beet,  grated  1/2  uncooked  onion,  chopped 

Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

CARROT  AND  GREEN  PEPPER  SALAD 

Cut  cold  cooked  carrot  into  thin  strips  about  3  inches 
long.  Place  the  strips  through  rings  of  green  pepper  made 
by  cutting  the  peppers  crosswise.  Season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  onion  juice.  Arrange  on  beds  of  fresh,  crisp  let- 
tuce leaves.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  or  a  boiled  dressing. 

GREEN  BEAN  AND  PICKLED  BEET  SALAD 

Marinate  cold  cooked  string  beans  in  French  dressing. 
Arrange  them  on  a  platter  on  lettuce  in  a  hollow  square, 
interlacing  them  at  the  corners  like  logs  for  a  log  cabin. 
Fill  the  center  of  the  square  with  a  mixture  of  pickled  beets 


176    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  string  beans  with  a  very  little  chopped  onion.  Serve 
with  a  salad  dressing. 

Other  vegetables  may  be  used  for  filling  the  center  of  the 
square,  such  as  green  peas,  diced  tomato,  or  cucumber. 

TOMATO  SALAD  JELLY 

2  tablespoons  gelatine  '       I  clove 

soaked  in  I  teaspoon  celery-salt  or 

1/2  cup  cold  water  I  tablespoon  minced  celery 

3  cups  tomato  juice  I  teaspoon  minced  parsley 
1/2  teaspoon  onion-salt  or  2  tablespoons  lime  or  lemon 

I  slice  onion  juice 

Combine  the  tomato  juice  with  the  seasoning  and  cook 
5  minutes.  Add  the  gelatine,  strain,  and  pour  into  individual 
molds.  When  very  cold,  turn  out  and  serve  with  mayonnaise 
on  cress  or  lettuce. 

HINDU  SALAD 

Shred  some  crisp  white  lettuce  leaves  and  arrange  them 
upon  the  salad  plates.  Arrange  4  thick  slices  of  tomato  upon 
the  bed  of  lettuce,  and  upon  2  slices  pile  shaved  celery.  On 
the  other  2  slices  pile  finely  cut  water  cress.  Garnish  with 
pieces  of  pimento  shaped  with  fancy  cutters.  Pour  over  all 
a  plain  French  dressing  before  serving. 

FRUIT  SALADS 
CHERRY  SALAD 

1/2  pound  firm  large  cherries 

1  pound  hazelnuts  or  filberts 

2  or  3  heads  of  lettuce 

I  cup  plain  lemon  mayonnaise 

Stone  and  remove  the  stems  from  the  cherries.  Shell  the 
nuts  and  place  a  kernel  in  the  center  of  each  cherry,  thus 
preserving  their  form.  Arrange  the  white  heart  of  the  lettuce 


FATS  177 

in  shell  form,  fill  with  the  cherries,  and  at  serving  time  pour 
over  the  dressing. 

CUCUMBER  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

1/2  cup  diced  cucumber 

1/2  cup  canned  pineapple,  drained  and  chopped 

2/3  cup  pineapple  syrup 

1/4  cup  vinegar 

1/4  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar 
1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
Salt 
1  1/4  tablespoons  gelatine  dissolved  in 
1  1/2  cups  cold  water 
1  1/4  cups  boiling  water 

Dissolve  the  soaked  gelatine  in  the  boiling  water.  Mix  the 
other  ingredients,  add  the  gelatine,  pour  into  molds,  and 
chill.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

GINGER  ALE  SALAD 

3/4  cup  diced  canned  pineapple 
3/4  cup  chopped  grapefruit  pulp 
1/3  cup  blanched,  shredded  almonds 
1/4  cup  malaga  grapes  (if  convenient) 

1  cup  ginger  ale 

2  tablespoons  gelatine 
Few  grains  salt 

Few  grains  red  pepper 
Lettuce  and  mayonnaise 

Soak  the  gelatine  for  5  minutes  in  a  half -cupful  of  tepid 
water,  then  dissolve  it  over  steam;  combine  the  fruit,  nuts, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Stir  in  the  ginger  ale,  reserving  1/4  cupful 
to  mix  with  the  gelatine;  then  add  the  latter.  Pour  into 
individual  molds  and  when  stiff  serve  with  lettuce  and 
mayonnaise. 


178    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

JAPANESE  SALAD 

Take  equal  quantities  of  finely  cut  lettuce,  quarters  of 
oranges,  tomatoes  sliced,  and  slices  of  pineapple.  The  whole 
must  be  thoroughly  cold.  Season  just  before  serving  with 
a  dressing  of  cream,  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  pepper. 

ORANGE  AND  GRAPE  SALAD 

Wash  a  head  of  lettuce,  dry  thoroughly  between  cheese- 
cloth. Put  on  ice.  Arrange  lettuce  in  a  bowl  to  form  a  nest. 
Prepare  the  oranges  by  peeling  them,  and  then  skinning  the 
sections  so  as  to  leave  each  section  whole.  Remove  the  seeds 
and  skin  from  white  grapes.  Arrange  the  oranges  and  grapes 
on  the  lettuce,  add  nuts,  either  chopped  fine  or  cut  in  small 
pieces,  and  pour  a  French  dressing  over  all. 

PEACH  AND  RIPE  OLIVE  SALAD 

Arrange  slices  of  fresh  or  canned  peaches  on  beds  of  let- 
tuce in  a  circle,  points  toward  the  center.  Put  4  ripe  olives 
in  the  center  of  each  circle.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  or  cream 
dressing. 

PEAR  SALAD 

Peel  and  core  pears.  Stuff  with  cream  cheese  and  chopped 
nuts.  Decorate  with  strips  of  pimento,  and  serve  on  lettuce 
with  Russian  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Seedless  raisins,  chopped  dates,  or  figs,  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  cream  cheese  and  nuts  as  a  stuffing  for  the 
pears. 

TRANS-MISSISSIPPI  EXPOSITION  SALAD 

1  cup  sifted  powdered  sugar  18  cherries 
Yolks  4  fresh  eggs  6  bananas 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  4  oranges 

2  lemons  $  6  slices  pineapple 
18  strawberries  I  bunch  grapes 

Other  fruits  may  be  substituted 


FATS  179 

Peel  and  slice  the  fruit  very  thin.  Rub  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  a  chilled  salad  bowl  with  geranium  leaves.  Have  all 
in  readiness  before  beginning  the  dressing,  as  it  must  not 
stand. 

In  a  bowl  put  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  if  possible,  place 
the  bowl  on  ice.  Beat  the  yolks  until  very  light  color  and 
quite  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  sugar  and  juice  of 
lemons.  When  sugar,  yolks,  and  lemon  stand  together  like 
whipped  cream,  fill  the  salad  bowl  with  alternating  layers 
of  fruit  and  dressing,  the  last  layer  being  dressing. 

This  may  be  served  with  cheese  wafers  as  the  first  course 
of  dinner  in  summer  in  place  of  blue-points. 

HEARTIER  SALADS 

CHEESE  JELLY  SALAD 

1/2  cup  grated  cheese  I  cup  whipped  cream 

1  tablespoon  gelatine  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  the  cheese  with  whipped  cream.  Season  and  add  to 
the  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  scant  cup  of  water.  Put  in  molds. 
When  jelly  begins  to  harden,  cover  with  grated  cheese. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  a  salad  dressing. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

2  cups  cottage  cheese  1  tablespoon  chopped  onion 

I  cup  pickled  beets,  cut  up     1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  or  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SUPPER  SALAD 

I  cup  chopped  liver  About  1  cup  mayonnaise  dressing 

(cooked)  I  teaspoon  salt 

I  cup  cottage  cheese  Dash  of  onion  and  celery  salt, 
I  small  can  pimento  cayenne 

Lettuce  Paprika 


180    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Put  liver  through  the  food-chopper,  add  cottage  cheese 
and  mix  well  with  fork,  add  seasonings  and  2  tablespoons  of 
dressing  to  bind.  Arrange  lettuce  on  plates,  place  half  of  a 
pimento  on  the  lettuce,  add  the  salad  mixture  shaped  in 
ovals,  using  2  teaspoonfuls.  Garnish  with  mayonnaise  and 
paprika. 

OYSTER  SALAD 

Stew  oysters  and  drain  dry.  Put  on  ice  until  cold,  strain, 
cut  in  pieces.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  celery.  Serve  with 
mayonnaise. 


CHAPTER  XII 
SUGAR 

Sugar  is  another  type  of  carbohydrate  which,  like 
starch,  serves  only  for  the  production  of  heat  and  en- 
ergy in  the  body  and  does  not  build  body 
tissue.  For  this  reason  it  saves  protein  ma- 
terial for  growth  and  when  used  intelligently  and  in 
combination  with  other  foods,  is  a  valuable  food  for 
growing  children.  Three  to  five  ounces  is  sufficient  for 
the  total  amount  in  all  forms  consumed  in  any  one  day. 
Overeating  of  candy  and  other  sweet  foods  should  be 
avoided  because  sugar  is  completely  absorbed  in  the 
system  and  if  eaten  in  excess  of  the  needs  Danger  of 
of  the  body  is  stored  in  the  liver.  It  is  improper  use 
a  single  food  containing  no  mineral  salts  nor  "  vita- 
mines,"  and  when  eaten  between  meals  appeases  the 
appetite  without  supplying  the  body  with  any  of  the 
other  materials  necessary  for  health. 

It  has  been  proved  that  sugar  can  be  utilized  in  the 
form  of  energy  in  the  muscles  of  the  body  from  twenty 
minutes  to  a  half-hour  after  it  is  eaten.  For  this  reason 
it  is  extremely  valuable  to  prevent  exhaustion  under 
physical  stress  and  can  be  used  to  restore  over-fatigued 
muscles  if  other  food  is  not  at  hand.  Its  value  has  long 
been  proven  by  mountain  climbers  and  trampers  who 
carry  it  with  them  in  the  compact  form  of  sweet  choc- 
olate. The  story  is  told  how  the  Germans  utilized  this 
physiological  fact  in  the  rations  given  their  army.  It  is 
said  that  the  men  were  kept  on  half  rations  between 


1 82     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

drives  but  during  the  twenty-four  hours  just  previous 
to  an  attack,  a  large  quantity  of  sugar  was  allotted 
them  along  with  their  regular  food,  in  order  to  provide 
the  immediate  physical  energy  required  for  their 
strenuous  exertions. 

No  wonder  that  a  child  who  is  allowed  to  eat  ice- 
cream sodas,  college  ices,  or  candy  freely  between 
meals,  has  no  appetite  for  a  good  substantial  meal 
when  the  proper  time  comes,1  for  the  body  has  had  a 
sufficient  amount  of  energy-supplying  foods  but  is 
sadly  lacking  in  the  variety  of  foods  which  it  should 
have. 

Sugar  has  not  long  been  the  common  article  of  diet 
that  it  is  to-day.  In  the  time  of  our  grandparents  it 
was  a  luxury  only  to  be  had  in  the  form  of  a  very  hard 
pyramidal  cake  which  stood  on  the  dining-room  side- 
board and  was  chipped  off  to  be  used  as  we  use  candy 
to-day.  It  also  could  be  had  in  the  form  of  rock  crystals 
which  were  frequently  bought  on  a  string.  To-day  it  is 
one  of  our  great  food  staples  and  when  its  production 
and  shipment  were  disturbed  during  the  war,  great 
commotion  on  two  continents  resulted. 

Most  of  the  sugar  in  commercial  use  comes  from 
cane  or  from  beets.  Before  the  war  France,  Belgium, 
and  Germany  together  produced  93  per 
cent  of  the  beet  sugar  of  the  world,  and 
Germany  and  Austria  alone  raised  one  fourth  of  the 
total  sugar  supply  of  the  world.  During  and  since  the 
war,  beet- sugar  production  has  been  greatly  stimulated 
in  the  United  States,  especially  in  Utah  and  Idaho ;  but 
the  difficulty  with  its  production  in  this  country  is  the 

1  Each  college  ice  with  a  chocolate  sauce  contains  400-450  calories 
and  an  ordinary  15  cent  cake  of  sweet  chocolate  about  400  calories. 


SUGAR  183 

high  cost  of  labor  which  handicaps  it  in  competition 
with  that  of  the  Continent.  The  largest  production  of 
cane  sugar  is  in  Cuba  and  Java.  The  Javan  crop  was  in- 
accessible during  the  war  because  of  the  lack  of  ship- 
ping facilities,  so  that  it  was  necessary  for  us  to  share 
the  Cuban  crop  with  the  Allies.  This  was  the  reason  for 
the  shortage  particularly  along  the  Atlantic  seaboard. 
As  it  is  a  crop  which  could  not  be  immediately  in- 
creased under  the  stimulus  of  high  prices,  at  the  re- 
quest of  the  Food  Administration  the  wholesale  price 
was  stabilized  by  agreement  among  the  dealers  and  the 
crop  was  apportioned  to  the  different  markets,  thus  do- 
ing away  with  competitive  bidding.  The  next  step  was 
to  reduce  the  amount  of  sugar  consumed  by  manu- 
facturers and  the  general  public.  Even  with  the  re- 
duction asked  of  us  we  were  yet  allowed  more  sugar 
per  person  than  was  the  normal  consumption  by  Euro- 
pean peoples  before  the  war,  so  excessive  is  our  use  of 
sugar. 

Chemically  there  are  two  groups  of  sugars;  those 
that  are  known  as  single  sugars,  and  those  that  are 
double  or  complex.  There  are  three  double  Kinds  of 
sugars  in  common  use.  Those  that  are  ex-  sugars 
tracted  from  cane,  from  beet,  and  from  the  maple- tree 
are  all  the  same  chemical  sugar.  Their  name  is  sucrose. 
The  only  difference  in  these  sugars  is  due  to  the  differ- 
ence in  refining.  The  impurities  that  are  left  in  each 
give  to  it  its  peculiar  flavor.  Cane  sugar  is  on  the  mar- 
ket in  the  forms  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  light  brown 
sugar,  confectioner's  sugar,  powdered,  granulated,  and 
loaf  sugar.  Maple  sugar,  on  the  other  hand,  is  not  re- 
fined, as  the  maple  flavor  gives  to  it  its  popularity. 

Cane  sugar  was  first  known  in  China  and  its  use 


184    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

spread  slowly  westward  as  a  great  luxury.  Early  ex- 
plorers brought  it  from  India  along  with 

Cane  sugar        *  .  .     &      .  TU        • 

spices  and  precious  stones.  The  process 

of  obtaining  the  juice  from  the  cane  has  not  greatly 
changed  in  principle  during  the  centuries,  although  in 
late  years  more  complicated  machinery  has  been  in- 
troduced. The  cane  is  cut  and  run  through  a  shredding 
machine.  The  mass  of  pulp  is  put  under  pressure  to 
extract  the  juice.  It  is  washed  with  water  during  this 
process,  although  all  the  water  thus  added  must  even- 
tually be  evaporated  out.  The  juice  is  treated  with 
chemicals  and  boiled  in  order  to  throw  out  all  albumi- 
nous matter  that  it  may  contain.  After  this  it  is  filtered 
and  evaporated.  The  heavy  syrup  is  then  placed  in  a 
centrifugal  machine  to  separate  the  crystals  of  cane 
sugar  from  the  molasses,  which  is  glucose  and  which 
does  not  crystallize.  Sugar  is  shipped  in  this  raw  state 
and  is  refined  at  different  points  along  the  seacoast  of 
the  United  States.  In  the  refining  process  the  sugar 
is  remelted,  filtered,  clarified  by  charcoal,  and  again 
evaporated  and  allowed  to  crystallize. 

Sugar  was  first  extracted  from  beets  by  a  German  in 
1797.  It  was  not  a  commercial  success,  however,  until 
1850,  when  it  was  found  possible  to  increase  the  per- 
centage of  sugar  in  beets  from  3  to  15  or  16  per  cent, 
thus  making  the  complicated  process  of  extraction 
worth  while.  The  beets  are  cut  in  very  thin  slices  and 
washed  with  water  to  extract  the  juices;  these  are 
then  evaporated  and  decolorized  by  animal  charcoal. 
Raw  beet  sugar  is  very  different  from  raw  cane  sugar 
but  the  products  after  refining  cannot  be  distin- 
guished one  from  the  other. 

The  other  two  complex  sugars  are  the  sugar  that  is 


SUGAR  185 

found  in  milk  used  for  modifying  cow's  milk  for  in- 
fants, and  malt  sugar  that  is  formed  by  the  fermenta- 
tion of  starch. 

The  simple  sugars  occur  widely  in  nature,  being 
found  in  all  fruits  either  separately  or  in  combination 
Simple  sugars  with  each  other.  The  most  common  of 
Glucose  these  and  the  one  which  sometimes  gives 

its  name  to  the  group  as  a  whole  is  glucose.  This  is  the 
sugar  that  is  found  in  grapes  as  well  as  in  other  fruit 
and  is  frequently  seen  in  small  yel  ow  lumps  on  the 
outside  of  old  raisins.  It  is  made  commercially  on  a 
large  scale  by  the  action  of  acids  on  starch.  It  is  not  so 
sweet  as  cane  sugar  and  does  not  crystallize,  so  that  it 
is  used  in  the  manufacture  of  syrups  and  some  candy 
as  a  much  cheaper  but  harmless  substitute  for  cane 
sugar.  Corn  syrups  which  were  put  on  the  market  as 
substitutes  for  sugar  are  largely  glucose;  hence  in  order 
to  get  the  same  quality  of  sweetness  in  the  finished 
product,  it  is  necessary  to  use  half  as  much  again  of 
the  syrup  as  of  the  sugar  required. 

Another  simple  sugar  is  known  as  fruit  sugar.  It  is 
found  in  most  fruits,  but  is  not  of  commercial  value.  It 
is  two  and  a  half  times  sweeter  than  cane 
or  beet  sugar  and  is  what  gives  to  fruit  its  ""* sugar 
fuel  value,  even  though  the  fruit  may  be  very  acid  to 
the  taste.  A  combination  of  glucose  and  fruit  sugar 
occurring  in  an  intimate  mixture  is  known  as  invert 
sugar  because  it  is  made  from  cane  sugar  by  inversion; 
that  is,  by  boiling  with  acids  or  by  fermentation. 
Honey  is  practically  pure  natural  invert  sugar.  These 
three  sugars,  glucose,  fruit  sugar,  and  invert  sugar,  are 
found  in  fruits  either  separately  or  together. 

Sugar  is  used  in  cookery  to  give  desirable  flavor  to 


1 86     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

various  substances.  The  changes  which  it  undergoes 
Action  of  sugar  when  being  cooked  by  itself  are  physical 
on  boiling  rather  than  chemical.  When  water  boils,  it 
can  be  no  hotter  when  boiling  vigorously  than  when 
boiling  gently,  for  water  is  changed  into  steam  at  21 2°  F. 
and  so  pure  water  can  never  be  any  hotter  than  this 
temperature.  As  soon,  however,  as  we  put  another  sub- 
stance in  solution  in  the  water  we  raise  the  boiling 
point.  Salted  water  has  a  higher  boiling  point  than 
plain  water  and  so  also  has  a  solution  of  sugar  and 
water.  As  the  water  is  gradually  boiled  out  from  syrup, 
the  solution  becomes  more  and  more  dense  and  the 
boiling  point  is  continually  being  raised.  This  is  the 
reason  why  all  recipes  for  making  jams  say  to  boil 
vigorously.  The  syrup  will  do  different  things  at  differ- 
ent densities,  so  that  in  candy  making  or  in  boiling 
syrup  for  frosting,  a  syrup  thermometer  may  be  used 
and  the  syrup  boiled  up  to  the  desired  temperature. 
There  are  a  few  fixed  points  as  follows: 

1.  2380  F.:  Soft  ball  test;  makes  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water;  used  for 

frosting,  fudge,  and  fondant. 

2.  2480  F.:  Hard  ball  test;  forms  a  firm  ball  under  cold  water. 

3.  2900  F.:  Small  crack  test;  is  hard  and  brittle  in  cold  water;  for 

pulled  candies. 

4.  3 io°  F.:  Hard  crack  test;  begins  to  discolor;  for  glaced  nuts  and 

fruit;  too  hard  for  pulled  candies. 

5.  345°-350°  F. :  Caramel ;  turns  brown ;  for  peanut  brittle. 

If  the  boiling  were  continued  further,  the  water  of  the 
sugar  itself  would  be  driven  out  completely,  leaving 
nothing  but  the  black  mass  of  charcoal  or  carbon. 
Another  way  for  making  caramel  to  be  used  for  flavor, 
or  for  sauces,  is  to  put  the  sugar  in  a  frying- 
pan  dry,  and  heat  it  on  top  of  the  stove.  Af- 
ter it  is  melted  and  browned  carefully  without  burning, 


SUGAR  187 

an  equal  amount  of  boiling  water  is  added.  This  dissolves 
the  caramel,  which  can  then  be  kept  in  liquid  form. 

Barley  sugar,  which  is  used  for  the  very  hard  Christ- 
mas candies,  is  the  stage  reached  before  the  sugar  be- 
gins to  caramelize  when  it  has  boiled  too  long  to  be 
used  for  glaced  fruits. 

The  logical  place  to  use  sugar  in  the  diet  is  at  the 
close  of  a  meal  in  which  a  variety  of  food  substances 
has  been  used.  This  may  be  in  the  form  of  How  to  use 
made  desserts  of  all  kinds,  cake,  pastry,  or  sa&1 
fruit,  either  raw  or  cooked.  The  dessert  should  be  as 
carefully  planned  as  the  rest  of  the  meal.  If  the  earlier 
courses  have  been  heavy,  fruit  is  preferable  to  a  rich 
pudding.  If,  however,  left-overs  have  been  used  and  the 
meal  has  been  somewhat  light,  it  is  suitable  to  count 
on  a  hearty  pudding  for  part  of  the  total  value  of  the 
meal.  It  should  be  remembered  that  all  desserts  which 
contain  fat  in  any  form  either  as  cream,  whipped  or 
frozen,  or  as  pastries,  suet  puddings,  or  rich  cake, 
should  only  be  served  when  very  little  fat  has  been 
used  during  the  meal.  To  serve  a  rich  cake  with  a  lus- 
cious chocolate  frosting  with  a  rich  ice-cream  is  sure 
to  bring  the  total  amount  of  fuel  of  the  meal  far  above 
the  actual  requirements  of  the  needs  of  the  family. 
Peculiar  as  it  may  seem,  a  plain,  slightly  salted,  crisp 
cracker  goes  better  with  ice-cream  than  anything  else. 


CANDY  AND  DESSERT  RECIPES 

PANOCHA 

I  cup  (packed)  medium  1/3  cup  nut  meats 

brown  sugar  1/4  pound  pecans,  in  shell 

1/4  cup  cream  1/3  pound  hickory,  in  shell 


188     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cook  sugar  and  cream  to  soft  ball  test.  Cool  until  you  can 
bear  your  hand  on  bottom  of  pan.  Stir  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  add  nuts,  and  when  it  is  too  thick  to  pour  easily 
spread  quickly  on  a  buttered  pan,  cut  in  squares  and  cool. 

FUDGE 

2  cups  sugar  1/4  cup  Golden  Drip  syrup  or 

1  cup  water  1/8  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2  ounces  chocolate  2  teaspoons  butter 

Cook  to  soft  ball  test.  Cool,  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  stir 
until  too  thick  to  pour,  spread  on  buttered  pan  and  cut  in 
squares. 

OLYMPIAN  CREAM 

3  cups  sugar  1/4  to  1/3  cup  Golden  Drip  syrup  or 

1  cup  cream  1/4  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and 

caramel  to  color  and  flavor 

Cook  to  soft  ball  test  (firm  and  waxy),  cool,  stir,  when  it 
thickens  add  3/4  cup  nuts  (1/2  pound  English  walnuts). 
Stir  until  it  will  not  pour,  spread  upon  buttered  pan  and 
cut  in  squares. 

CREAM  CANDY 

1  cup  sugar 
1/12  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 
1/3  cup  water 

Cook  without  stirring  to  the  crack  test.  Pour  on  a  buttered 
pan,  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  lightly  and  quickly 
till  white,  cut  with  scissors  or  break  into  convenient  pieces 
and  wrap  in  paraffin  paper.  Color  and  flavor  while  pulling. 

MOLASSES  CANDY 

1  /3  cup  sugar 

2/3  cup  New  Orleans  molasses 

Cook  to  crack  test,  stirring  occasionally  to  keep  it  from 


SUGAR  189 

burning.  Add  1/12  teaspoon  baking  soda,  pour  upon  a  but- 
tered pan  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  lightly  and 
quickly  until  light  colored  and  firm.  Cut  into  pieces  of  con- 
venient size.  Flavor  while  pulling. 

DATE  KISSES 

Whites  2  eggs  1  cup  pecans  chopped 

I  cup  powdered  sugar  Vanilla 

1  cup  dates  chopped  fine  x 

Beat  the  eggs  till  stiff.  Mix  in  the  other  ingredients.  Drop 
onto  a  greased  sheet  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven, 

FIG  TOAST 

Wash  carefully  and  cook  in  boiling  water  1/2  pound  figs 
until  tender,  add  1/4  cup  sugar  and  the  rind  and  juice  of 
half  a  lemon.  Cook  until  the  syrup  is  reduced  —  when  re- 
heating in  chafing-dish.  Butter  toast  while  hot,  heap  the 
figs  upon  it,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream  made  from  2/3 
cup  cream  and  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.  Serve  at 
once. 

FRIED  BANANAS 

Remove  the  skin  from  6  bananas  and  cut  them  in  halves. 
Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  blazer  and  cook  bananas  cov- 
ered until  tender.  Mix  1  tablespoon  butter,  1/3  cup  sugar, 
and  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice;  when  bananas  are  nearly 
done  turn  mixture  in  and  baste  with  it  until  ready  to  serve. 

BAKED  BANANAS  (1) 

Remove  skins  from  6  bananas  and  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise. Put  in  a  shallow  granite  pan  or  on  an  old  platter. 
Mix  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1/3  cup  sugar,  and  2 
tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Baste  bananas  with  one  half  the 
mixture.  Bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven,  basting  during  bak- 
ing with  remaining  mixture. 


190    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

BAKED  BANANAS  (2) 

Pull  one  narrow  strip  of  skin  down  the  entire  length  of 
each  one  of  six  bananas,  and  lay  it  back  in  place  again.  Place 
the  bananas  in  a  shallow  baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  20  minutes,  or  until  the  bananas  are  entirely  soft. 
Serve  in  the  skins  to  preserve  all  the  juice.  This  is  the  best 
way  to  give  bananas  to  children. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING  WITH  WHIPPED 
CREAM 

Butter  a  round  pudding-dish.  Have  slices  of  stale  bread, 
butter  them  generously.  Cut  them  in  squares  2  inches  across 
and  arrange  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  Sprinkle  with 
raisins  and  currants  that  have  been  well  washed  in  several 
waters.  Add  another  layer  of  the  bread  and  butter,  and  re- 
peat until  the  dish  is  full.  Then  pour  over  it  a  custard  made 
from  2  well  beaten  eggs,  I  pint  of  milk,  and  sugar  to  taste, 
seasoned  with  ground  nutmeg.  Dot  the  top  of  the  pud- 
ding over  with  small  pieces  of  butter,  stand  in  a  basin  of 
water  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  the  top  is  brown. 
Serve  hot  with  whipped  cream  which  may  be  slightly 
flavored  with  vanilla,  or  if  preferred  with  plain  cream,  un- 
sweetened and  unflavored,  or  simply  with  hard  sauce  or 
soft  butter. 

BREAD  PUDDINGS 


Plain 

Lemon 

Chocolate 

Brown 

Stale  crumbs 

1  c. 

1  c. 

1  c. 

Stale  crust 

crumbs 

I  c. 

Milk 

2  c. 

2  c. 

2  c. 

2  c. 

Egg 

1  or  2  yolks 

1  or  2  yolks 

1  or  2  yolks 

Sugar 

3tb. 

3  or  4  tb. 

8tb. 

Molasses 

1/2  c. 

Salt 

1/2  t. 

1/2  t. 

1/2  t. 

1/2 1. 

Fruit 

1/2  c. 

Lemon 

I  rind 

■i 

Spices 

1/4 1 

Chocolate 

I  oz. 

SUGAR  191 

Soak  crumbs  and  milk  from  1  to  2  hours  or  until  crumbs 
are  soft  —  if  milk  is  hot  it  will  take  shorter  time.  Beat  egg 
with  sugar  and  salt,  and  to  it  add  the  soaked  crumbs.  Put 
in  a  buttered  dish,  into  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  30  to  40 
minutes,  or  until  a  knife  comes  clean  from  the  middle  of  the 
pudding. 

Serve  plain  bread  pudding  with  chocolate  sauce  or  frost- 
ing fruit  sauce. 

Serve  lemon  bread  pudding  with  frosting  lemon  sauce. 

Serve  chocolate  bread  pudding  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Serve  brown  bread  pudding  with  caramel  sauce. 

BROWN  BETTY 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  3/4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  cups  chopped  tart  apples        1/16  teaspoon  cloves 
1/2  cup  brown  sugar  1  to  2  tablespoons  butter 

Butter  a  deep  dish,  put  in  layers  of  crumbs,  apple,  sugar, 
butter,  and  spice ;  repeat ;  put  crumbs  on  top.  Cover  dish  and 
cook  in  moderate  oven  3/4  hour;  uncover  to  brown.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream,  or  milk  sweetened  and  flavored. 

BROWN  SUSAN 

Line  buttered  mold  with  pieces  of  bread  slightly  buttered. 
Fill  cavity  with  sliced  apple,  butter,  sugar,  and  lemon  rind; 
cover  with  buttered  bread.  Bake  slowly,  and  heat  at  last  to 
brown.  Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

INDIAN  PUDDING 

5  cups  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

1/3  cup  Indian  meal  1  teaspoon  ginger 

1/2  cup  molasses 

Pour  milk  slowly  on  the  meal,  cook  in  double  boiler  20 
minutes.  Add  molasses,  salt,  and  ginger,  pour  into  buttered 
pudding-dish,  and  bake  in  slow  oven  from  3  to  6  hours. 


192    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

INDIAN  TAPIOCA  PUDDING 

1/3  cup  pearl  tapioca  1/2  cup  molasses 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

II/2  teaspoons  salt  1/4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/4  cup  cornmeal  3  cups  hot  milk 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  for  one  hour  and  drain.  Add 
salt  to  boiling  water,  sift  in  cornmeal  and  boil  10  minutes, 
stirring  often.  Add  tapioca  and  other  ingredients,  pour  into 
a  greased  earthen  dish  and  bake  slowly  for  2  hours. 

RICE  AND  APRICOT  PUDDING 

1  cup  rice 

2  tablespoons  butter 

1/2  pound  evaporated  apricots 

Cook  rice  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  drain,  and 
add  butter.  Soak  apricots  overnight,  cook  until  tender  in 
plenty  of  water,  add  1/2  cup  sugar.  Reserve  one  cup  juice 
for  the  sauce.  In  a  buttered  dish  put  a  layer  of  rice,  then  one 
of  apricots,  and  repeat  until  dish  is  full;  pour  remaining 
juice  over  it  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

APRICOT  SAUCE 

I  cup  juice 
1/2  cup  sugar 
1  tablespoon  flour 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  hot  juice,  cook  until  clear  and 
slightly  thick. 

RICE  FLUMMERY 

I  cup  broken  rice  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

4  cups  milk  1/4  pound  figs,  prunes,  or  raisins 

Wash  rice,  cook,  stirring  constantly  until  tender.  If  whole 
rice  is  used  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water,  or  in 


SUGAR  193 

double  boiler;  add  from  1/2  to  3/4  as  much  milk  and  cook, 
stirring  until  the  rice  is  broken  up  and  mixture  thick  enough 
to  mold.  Mix  with  fruit  and  pack  in  cups.  Cool  and  serve 
with  fruit  juice,  brown  sugar  sauce,  or  cream.  Figs  should 
be  steamed  and  cut  up;  prunes  cooked,  stoned  and  cut  up; 
and  raisins  plumped  and  seeded. 

BOILED  RICE  PUDDING 

1/4  pound  rice 
1/2  pound  raisins 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  rice,  seed  raisins,  mix,  and  tie  in  floured  cheese- 
cloth, allowing  room  to  swell.  Boil  or  steam  2  hours  and 
serve  with  milk  or  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  or  raisin 
sauce. 

POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING 

4  cups  milk  1/4  cup  sugar 

1/4  cup  rice  Nutmeg  or  raisins 

1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  rice,  mix  ingredients,  and  pour  into  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish. Bake  from  2  to  3  hours  in  very  slow  oven,  stirring 
three  times  during  first  hour  of  baking  to  prevent  rice  from 
settling,  and  occasionally  afterward.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CORNSTARCH  PUDDING 

Home  recipe  Individual  recipe 

e  cups  milk  1/2  cup 

3  tablespoons  cornstarch  1  teaspoon 

1/4  cup  sugar  3/4  tablespoon 

1  square  chocolate  grated  3/4  tablespoon  or  1/8  square 
1/4  teaspoon  salt  Pinch 

1/2  teaspoon  vanilla  1/8  teaspoon 

Melt  chocolate  in  double  boiler  over  hot  water,  add  sugar 


194     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  thin  by  adding  milk,  a  few  drops  at  a  time.  When  smooth 
add  scalded  milk.  Add  cornstarch  blended  to  a  paste  with 
a  little  cold  milk,  reserved  for  the  purpose.  Cook  20  minutes. 
Add  salt  and  vanilla,  and  mold.  Pour  on  a  little  cold  water 
to  prevent  skin  forming  on  top  of  mold. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1  tablespoon  butter  3  or  4  tablespoons 

3  tablespoons  sugar  3/4  cup 

1  tablespoon  beaten  egg  -     1  egg 
3  tablespoons  milk  3/4  cup 

1/2  cup  flour  2  cups 

3/4  teaspoon  baking-powder  3  teaspoons 

Make  like  cake,  using  more  milk  if  necessary  for  a  batter 
between  a  drop  and  a  pour.  Bake  in  a  sheet,  serve  hot  with 
lemon  sauce. 

LEMON  SAUCE 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1/3  cup  boiling  water  2  cups 

1/4  inch  square  yellow  lemon  rind  2  inch  square 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup 

I  teaspoon  flour  2  tablespoons 

I  teaspoon  butter  2  tablespoons 

I  teaspoon  lemon  juice  2  tablespoons 

Cook  first  four  ingredients  until  clear  and  somewhat 
thick,  add  butter  and  lemon  juice  just  before  taking  from 
the  stove,  remove  rind,  and  serve. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

Cream  together  I  cup  of  sugar,  and  1  /2  cup  of  shortening, 
add  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  1/2  teaspoon  of  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
of  cinnamon,  little  nutmeg,  and  1  cup  of  raisins. 


SUGAR  195 

Dissolve  1  teaspoon  soda  in  a  bit  of  warm  water  and  then 
stir  it  into  I  cup  of  sour  apple  sauce  letting  it  foam  over  the 
ingredients  in  the  bowl.  Beat  all  thoroughly  and  add  1  3/4 
cups  flour.  Bake  in  a  loaf  tin  45  minutes. 

APPLE  COMPOTE 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1  apple  8  or  10 

1/4  cup  water  1  cup 

1/8  cup  sugar  1  cup 

1/2  inch  stick  cinnamon  2-inch  stick 

Make  syrup  with  sugar,  water,  and  cinnamon ;  boil  slowly 
IO  minutes,  skimming  well.  Core  and  pare  apples,  cook  till 
nearly  done  in  syrup.  Turn  apples  while  cooking.  Drain  and 
bake  apples  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven.  Boil  the  syrup  until 
almost  like  a  jelly.  Arrange  apples  on  dish  for  serving.  Fill 
core  cavities  with  jelly  or  marmalade.  Pour  the  syrup  over 
them.  Put  whipped  cream  around  the  base. 

APPLE  DUMPLING 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1/3  cup  flour  2  cups 
1/2  teaspoon  baking-powder      31/2  teaspoons 

Speck  salt  1/2  teaspoon 

1/2  tablespoon  butter  3  tablespoons 

Milk  2/3  cup 

1  apple  6 

Mix  dough  as  for  biscuits,  pat  or  roll  large  enough  to 
cover  apple.  Pare  and  core  apple,  fill  center  with  raisins, 
jelly,  or  sugar  with  lemon  juice  or  spices,  place  in  middle  of 
dough  and  press  edges  together.  Put  on  floured  tin  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  apple  is  tender.  Serve  hot  with 
molasses  sauce. 


196    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

MOLASSES  SAUCE 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

2  tablespoons  Golden  Drip  syrup        I  cup 
I  teaspoon  vinegar  or  2  tablespoons 

i  teaspoon  lemon  juice  1/2  lemon 

Salt  1/8  teaspoon 
1/4  teaspoon  butter  1  tablespoon 

1/16  teaspoon  mixed  spices  1/4  teaspoon 

Mix  and  cook  until  somewhat  thick.  Instead  of  mixed 
spices  you  may  use  cinnamon  or  vanilla  and  1  ounce  of 
chocolate. 

Mixed  Spices 

1/2  teaspoon  cloves  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1/2  teaspoon  allspice  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  mace 

DUTCH  APPLE  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  1  eggt  or  none 
1/2  teaspoon  salt  I  cup  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking-powder     2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
2  tablespoons  sugar 

Make  a  drop  batter,  spread  about  3/4  inch  on  a  buttered 
tin.  Stick  full  of  thin  wedges  of  apple,  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon,  and  bake  until  brown.  Serve  with  molasses 
sauce. 

APPLE  PUDDING 

2  large  apples  grated    3/4  cup  milk 
2  eggs  well  beaten  2  cups  corn  flakes 

1/2  cup  maple  syrup 

Mix  together  and  bake  until  set  like  a  custard. 


SUGAR  197 

APPLE  TAPIOCA  OR  SAGO 

3/4  cup  pearl  or  minute  tapioca 

Cold  water  to  cover,  soak  one  hour 
Drain,  add  4  cups  water 
1/2  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  transparent.  Core  and  pare 
7  sour  apples,  arrange  in  buttered  pudding-dish,  fill  cavities 
with  sugar  and  few  drops  lemon  juice.  Pour  tapioca  over 
apples  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  apples  are  soft. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.  Other  fruits  may  be  used  — 
peaches,  pears,  stewed  prunes,  bananas  or  cooked  figs,  or 
quinces. 

APPLE  SAUCE 

6  apples  1/4  cup  sugar,  or 

1/3  cup  water  1/4  cup  Golden  Drip  syrup 

Cook  apples  and  water  together  over  a  slow  fire  until 
tender.  Add  sugar  and  cook  until  it  is  dissolved.  If  molasses 
or  brown  sugar  is  used  put  with  apples  and  water  and  cook 
slowly,  covered,  in  the  oven  till  red  in  color. 

APPLE  PORCUPINE 
I  cup  water 


Boil  5  minutes 

1  cup  sugar  )  u 

6  apples 
4  eggs,  whites 
1/2  cup  powdered  sugar 

2  tablespoons  blanched  almonds 

3  tablespoons  currant  jelly 

Pare  and  core  the  apples  and  cook  them  until  tender  in 
the  syrup.  Take  them  out  on  a  platter,  and  fill  the  centers 
with  currant  jelly.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  eggs  and  sugar, 
and  cover  the  apples  with  it,  then  stick  in  the  almonds. 
Place  in  the  oven  with  the  door  open  for  5  minutes. 


198    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

CHERRY  PUFFS 

2  cups  flour  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking-powder  1  cup  milk 

1  egg,  or  none 

Make  a  drop  batter,  put  a  spoonful  in  each  of  10  or  12 
buttered  cups,  then  a  few  cherries;  cover  these  with  another 
spoonful  of  batter  and  steam  for  20  or  30  minutes.  Serve 
with  sauce  made  from  the  fruit  juice. 

1  cup  juice  I  tablespoon  sugar,  if  needed 

1/2  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Either  fresh  or  canned  fruit  may  be  used,  but  reserve  the 
juice  for  the  sauce.  Other  small  fruits  may  take  the  place 
of  cherries. 

DATE  PUDDING 

2  cups  milk  3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1/2  cup  corn  or  maple  syrup       1/2  teaspoon  salt 
12  seeded  dates  cut  up  small        1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  the  cornstarch  with  1/4  cup  of  milk.  Heat  the  re- 
maining milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  cornstarch,  syrup, 
dates,  and  salt,  and  stir  until  thick.  Cover  and  cook  20  min- 
utes. Add  the  vanilla  and  put  in  a  dish  to  cool. 

ORANGE  TAPIOCA 

I  cup  ball  tapioca  1  cup  sugar 

6  oranges  Whipped  cream 

Soak  the  tapioca  2  hours  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover. 
Wash  and  dry  the  oranges  and  slice  them  into  2  or  4  parts. 
Put  them  over  to  boil  in  clear  water  and  boil  until  you  can 
pierce  the  skin  with  a  toothpick.  Remove  the  oranges  and 
arrange  on  a  pretty  platter.  Put  the  tapioca  over  to  cook  in 
the  water  the  oranges  were  cooked  in,  add  the  sugar,  and 


SUGAR  199 

boil  until  clear,  then  pour  over  the  cooked  oranges.  Serve 
chilled  with  whipped  cream. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

1  pound  prunes  1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

2  cloves  1/3  box  gelatine 

Soak  prunes  overnight,  cook  until  tender  with  cloves  and 
lemon.  Soak  gelatine  in  prune  juice,  and  dissolve  with  hot 
juice,  using  the  proportion  of  2  quarts  juice  to  one  box  of 
gelatine.  Stone  fruit  and  put  with  juice  into  mold,  chill,  and 
serve  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

PRUNE  WHIP  (1) 

Whites  of  4  eggs 
24  large  prunes,  cooked  and  mashed  through  a  strainer 
4  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 
Lemon  juice 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  with  a  little  salt, 
adding  the  sugar  gradually  while  beating.  Cut  and  fold  in 
the  prune  pulp.  Pile  in  a  baking-dish.  Stand  the  dish  in  a 
pan  of  hot  water  in  a  moderate  oven  until  set. 

PRUNE  WHIP  (2) 

2  cups  silver  prunes 
I  cup  best  evaporated  apricots 
I  quart  fresh  water 
1/2  cup  sugar 

1  pint  rich  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
2  tablespoons  sherry 

(Fruit  mixture  to  be  used  instead  of  wine : 
1/2  orange,  1/4  lemon,  1/4  pineapple) 
I  pint  box  small  fruit 
Yolks  2  eggs 


200     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Wash  the  prunes  and  apricots  well,  drain,  and  place  in  a 
stew-pan,  cover  with  water,  boil  until  the  stones  fall  from 
the  prunes,  remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the  stones,  cut 
the  fruit  in  small  cubes,  return  to  the  liquor  which  should 
be  quite  thick.  Add  the  sugar  and  cook  to  a  thick  paste, 
take  from  the  fire  and  chill.  Make  a  custard  in  the  double 
boiler,  allowing  the  milk  to  scald,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs, 
sugar,  and  wine ;  when  quite  thick  take  from  the  stove  and 
chill.  About  serving  time  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until 
they  stand  alone.  Fill  a  pretty  glass  berry-dish  first  with  a 
layer  of  dark  prune  sauce,  then  of  deep  yellow  custard. 
Drop  the  whites  over  the  top,  and  garnish  with  the  bright 
berries.  Whipped  cream  may  be  substituted  for  the  eggs. 

STEAMED  SUET  AND  FRUIT  PUDDING 

21/2  cups  flour  2/3  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  chopped  raisins  or 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  currants 

1/2  saltspoon  cinnamon  1  cup  water  or  milk 

1/2  saltspoon  nutmeg  1  cup  molasses 
1  cup  chopped  suet 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  molasses  and  milk  to 
suet;  combine  mixtures.  Stone,  cut,  and  flour  raisins,  then 
add  to  mixture.  Turn  into  buttered  mold,  cover,  and  steam 
3  hours.  Serve  with  foamy  sauce.  If  water  and  butter  be 
used,  3  cups  flour  will  be  required,  as  these  thicken  less  than 
milk  and  suet.  This  pudding  may  be  steamed  in  small  stone 
cups. 

FOAMY  SAUCE 

1/2  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  wine,  or 

1  cup  powdered  sugar         1  teaspoon  vanilla 
I  egg 


SUGAR  201 

FIG  PUDDING 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1/2  cup 

1  ounce  suet  1/4  pound 

2  ounces  figs  1  /2  pound 
2/3  cup  crumbs  21/3  cups 

2  tablespoons  milk  1/2  cup 

1/2  egg  2 

1/6  teaspoon  salt  3/4  teaspoon 

I  1/2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  1/2 

1/8  lemon  rind  1/2 

1/2  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  teaspoons 

Chop  figs.  Chop  suet  with  a  little  flour  to  keep  it  from 
sticking  together.  Mix  the  two.  Soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk, 
add  eggs  well  beaten,  sugar,  and  salt.  Combine  mixtures, 
turn  into  buttered  mold,  steam  3  hours,  or  in  individual 
molds  40  minutes.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

RAISIN  PUDDING 

I  cup  wet  bread  crumbs  1/4  cup  chopped  suet,  or  none 
1/4  cup  molasses  1/8  teaspoon  mixed  spices 

1/4  cup  raisins 

Soak  bread  in  cold  water  30  minutes,  squeeze  water  out, 
measure,  and  mix  lightly  with  other  ingredients.  Put  into  a 
buttered  can  and  steam  or  cook  surrounded  by  boiling  water 
for  2  hours.  Serve  with  hard  or  golden  sauce. 

PLUM  PUDDING  WITHOUT  EGGS 

I  cup  bread  crumbs  1/2  cup  molasses 

1/2  cup  flour  1/2  cup  sweet  milk 

1/2  cup  suet  (chopped  fine)  1/8  teaspoon  soda  ' 

1/2  cup  raisins  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  /4  teaspoon  cloves  1  /2  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Butter  earthen  dish.  Mix  ingredients  and  cook  5  hours  in 
fireless  cooker. 


202     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

CHOCOLATE  AND  ALMOND  PUDDING 

I  tablespoon  butter  1/2  cup  milk 

1/2  cup  flour  5  eggs 

1/2  cup  grated  chocolate  3/4  cup  sugar 

(3  ounces)  1  cup  chopped  almonds 

Cook  butter,  flour,  chocolate,  and  milk  over  the  fire,  stir- 
ring constantly.  Set  it  to  cool.  Beat  yolks  with  sugar  until 
creamy;  add  it  to  cold  mixture,  a  spoonful  at  a  time.  Mix 
thoroughly.  Fold  in  beaten  whites;  turn  into  a  buttured 
mold,  and  steam  2  to  3  hours.  Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

PUDDING  SAUCES 

Golden  Sauce 

1/2  cup  butter  1/2  cup  fruit  juice 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar  1/8  teaspoon  mace 

2  yolks  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  put  over  hot  water,  stir  until 
liquid,  then  add  beaten  yolks,  mace,  and  fruit  juice,  and  stir 
until  it  thickens.  Serve  at  once. 

Hard  Sauce 

1/3  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

2/3  to  1  cup  powdered  sugar  2/3  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  flavoring.  The 
beaten  yolk  or  white  of  an  egg  may  be  added.  Beat  the  mix- 
ture well,  form  on  serving-dish,  and  put  in  cool  place  until 
used. 

Frosting  Sauce 

1  white  of  egg  2/3  cup  fruit 

2/3  cup  powdered  sugar  Lemon  juice 

Put  unbeaten  white  in  bowl,  add  fruit  and  sugar  gradu- 
ally, using  the  Dover  egg-beater,  and  beat  until  smooth  and 
thick.  Lemon  juice  is  added  to  bring  out  the  flavor  of  fruit, 


SUGAR  203 

and  less  sugar  is  needed  if  fruit  is  sweetened.  The  juice  of 
half  a  lemon  may  be  used  without  fruit. 

Vanilla  Sauce 
1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

1/2  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  pour  over  it  boiling  water,  cook  until 
clear  and  slightly  thick;  add  butter  several  minutes  before 
taking  up,  and  vanilla  just  before  serving. 

Chocolate  Sauce 
To  vanilla  sauce  add  1  ounce  bitter  chocolate  instead  of 
the  butter,  and  half  as  much  vanilla. 

Brown  Sugar  Sauce 
1  cup  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

3/4  cup  brown  sugar        2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 
1  1/2  tablespoons  flour  Nutmeg 

Follow  direction  given  for  making  vanilla  sauce,  using 
other  flavoring. 

Caramel  Sauce 
1 1 2  cup  caramel  3  tablespoons  sugar  (if  desired) 

1/2  cup  water  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  tablespoon  flour 

To  make  caramel  melt  1/2  cup  sugar,  stirring  constantly, 
but  not  allowing  it  to  burn  or  get  dark ;  take  it  from  the  fire 
for  a  minute  and  add  1/2  cup  boiling  water.  Return  to  fire 
and  boil  until  smooth.  This  caramel  will  keep  indefinitely. 
Mix  flour  with  sugar  or  water,  add  to  caramel,  and  cook 
until  slightly  thick  and  clear.  Add  vanilla  just  before  serving. 

Raisin  Sauce 
I  1/2  tablespoons  butter       1  cup  water 
1/2  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  flour 

1  /4  cup  raisins  Lemon  juice 


204    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Seed  and  chop  raisins,  cook  in  water  slowly  15  minutes. 
Add  2  teaspoons  flour  in  2  tablespoons  water  and  cook  5 
minutes  more.  Strain  raisins  out  if  desired,  pour  mixture 
upon  butter  and  sugar  creamed,  and  add  lemon  juice  if 
needed. 

LEMON  JELLY 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

3/4  teaspoon  Knox  gelatine  2  tablespoons  or  1/2  box 

1  tablespoon  cold  water  3/4  cup 
3  tablespoons  cold  water  2  cups 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  cup 
1/8  inch  stick  cinnamon                    I  inch 

1  inch  square  lemon  rind  1/8  lemon 

3/4  lemon  (2  tablespoons)  juice  1/2  cup 

For  orange  juice  use  1/2  cup  orange  juice  and  1/4  cup 
lemon  juice,  reducing  the  water  1/4  cup.  Soak  gelatine  and 
cold  water  10  minutes.  Make  a  syrup  of  cold  water,  sugar, 
stick  cinnamon,  and  lemon  rind;  cook  until  slightly  yellow. 
Pour  syrup  over  gelatine  to  dissolve  it.  If  this  heat  is  not 
sufficient  set  mixture  in  hot  water.  Add  to  mixture  lemon 
juice  and  strain  all  into  wet  molds.  Chill.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

JELLIED  WALNUTS 

1/2  box  gelatine,  or  3/4  cup  sugar 

1  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  1/2  cup  orange  juice 

1  /4  cup  cold  water  3  tablespoons  lemon 
1/3  cup  boiling  water  juice 

Make  same  as  lemon  jelly.  Cover  bottom  of  shallow  pan 
with  half  of  mixture;  when  firm  place  on  it,  I  inch  apart, 
halves  of  English  walnuts.  Make  walnuts  adhere  with  a  few 
drops  of  the  mixture.  Cover  with  remaining  mixture.  Chill, 
and  cut  in  squares  for  serving. 


SUGAR 


205 


4  figs 
6  dates 
2  bananas 

18  blanchecf  almonds 
1/4  pound  malaga  grapes 


FRUIT  PUDDING 

1/2  box  gelatine,  or  1  orange 

2  tablespoons  granulated 
gelatine 
1/2  cup  cold  water 
I  1/2  cups  boiling  water 
2  cups  sugar 
Juice  2  lemons 

Proceed  as  in  lemon  jelly  with  first  five  ingredients. 
Strain  mixture,  and  when  quite  stiff  stir  in  the  fruit.  Slice 
the  bananas  and  cut  orange,  figs,  and  dates  in  small  pieces 
before  adding  to  mixture.  Turn  all  into  a  wet  mold,  let 
harden,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

SPANISH  CREAM 

1/4  box  gelatine,  or  3  yolks  of  eggs 


1  tablespoon  granulated 

gelatine 
3  cups  milk 
3  whites  of  eggs 


1/3  cup  sugar 

1/4  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  or 
3  tablespoons  wine 


Soak  gelatine  in  part  of  milk,  scald  the  balance,  add  sugar 
and  gelatine,  pour  mixture  slowly  on  yolks  of  eggs  slightly 
beaten.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thickened, 
stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire,  add  salt,  flavoring, 
and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Turn  into  wet  individual 
molds  and  chill.  Serve  with  cream.  More  gelatine  will  be 
required  if  large  molds  are  used. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM 


1/4  cup  cold  milk  or  water 
1/4  package  gelatine 

1  cup  double  cream  and 

2  cups  milk,  or 
2  cups  single  cream 


3/4  cup  sugar 
1/16  teaspoon  salt 
2  yolks  eggs 

1  teaspoon  vanilla,  or 

2  tablespoons  rum  or  sherry 
(Fruit  mixture  instead  of  wine,  1/2  orange,  1/4  lemon, 

1/4  pineapple.) 


206    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Whip  cream  and  stand  aside  to  drain.  Scald  3/4  cup  milk 
and  stir  slowly  into  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt  beaten,  and  then 
return  to  double  boiler  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Take  from  fire,  stir  in  the  soaked  gelatine  and  flavoring,  stir 
until  gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  strain  it.  When  cold  and 
beginning  to  set  whip  it  a  few  minutes  with  the  Dover  egg- 
beater  and  then  mix  in  lightly  the  whipped  cream  and  turn 
it  into  a  mold  to  harden.  It  should  have  a  spongy  texture. 
Do  not  use  any  of  the  cream  which  has  drained  through. 

Coffee  Bavarian  Cream 

May  be  made  by  omitting  the  vanilla  and  soaking  the 
gelatine  in  1/4  cup  clear  black  coffee  or  steep  1/4  cup  ground 
coffee  in  milk  that  is  used  for  custard. 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream 

Cook  until  smooth  2  ounces  chocolate  (melted),  1/4  cup 
sugar,  1  /4  cup  boiling  water ;  add  to  the  milk  used  for  cus- 
tard and  proceed  as  directed  above,  using  vanilla. 

Caramel  Bavarian  Cream 

Caramelize  3/4  cup  sugar  and  dissolve  in  hot  milk  for 
custard,  use  in  addition  1/4  cup  sugar  with  the  yolks  of  eggs 
for  the  custard  and  proceed  as  directed  above,  using  vanilla. 

ORANGE  BAVAROISE 

1/2  lemon  grated  rind  and  juice 
1/2  cup  white  wine  or  orange  juice 
1/3  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

I  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine 

1  tablespoon  cold  water 

Mix  lemon,  wine,  sugar,  soaked  gelatine,  and  yolks  of 
eggs;  stir  vigorously  over  water  until  gelatine  is  dissolved 
and  mixture  thickened.  Set  in  pan  of  ice  water  and  when 
mixture  begins  to  harden  beat  with  Dover  egg-beater  until 


SUGAR  207 

it  will  drop  from  the  spoon ;  mix  into  it  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  turn  into  a  mold  lined  with  lady  fingers  and  chill.  It  may 
be  served  in  orange  baskets. 

COFFEE  MOUSSE 

1  ounce  gelatine  dissolved  in         1/2  cup  sugar 
1/4  cup  cold  water  1  cup  strong  coffee 

I  /2  cup  boiling  water  I  cup  whipped  cream 

Pour  the  boiling  water  onto  the  gelatine.  Add  the  sugar 
and  coffee,  and  cool.  When  it  begins  to  set,  whip,  add  the 
cream,  and  whip  all  together.  Put  in  mold.  When  serving 
garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

JERUSALEM  PUDDING 

1/4  cup  rice  3  figs,  and  same  amount  of 

1/2  box  gelatine  ginger 

1/2  cup  powdered  sugar  1/2  cup  sherry  wine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  1  pint  cream 

Wash  rice  and  boil  in  plenty  of  water  until  soft,  drain,  and 
dry  on  towel.  Cut  figs  and  ginger  into  small  pieces,  cover 
with  sherry,  and  let  stand  until  rice  is  ready.  Soak  gelatine 
in  1/2  cup  of  cold  water  15  minutes,  then  dissolve  over  hot 
water.  Whip  cream  and  add  powdered  sugar,  vanilla,  gela- 
tine, rice,  and  fruit;  stir  in  a  cold  place  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  Place  in  mold  and  when  firm,  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE 

Individual  recipe  Large  recipe 

1/2  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine  1/4  box 

I  tablespoon  cold  water  1  //\.  cup 

I  1/2  tablespoons  scalded  cream  1/3  cup 

4  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  1  /3  cup 

1/2  cup  thin  cream  (whip  from)  31/2  cups 

1/2  teaspoon  vanilla  I  1/2  teaspoons 

Lady  fingers  6 


208    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  scalded  cream, 
strain  into  a  bowl,  and  add  sugar  and  vanilla.  Set  bowl  in 
the  water,  stir  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
fold  in  whip  from  cream,  adding  one  third  at  a  time.  Should 
gelatine  mixture  become  too  thick,  melt  over  water  and 
again  cool  before  adding  whip.  Line  mold  with  lady  fingers, 
turn  mixture  in,  spread  evenly,  and  chill. 

FRUIT  SOUFFLE 

3/4  cup  fruit  pulp  —  peach,  Whites  3  eggs 

apricot,  quince,  or  prune  Sugar 

Cook  fruit,  rub  through  sieve,  sweeten,  and  perhaps  add 
lemon  juice.  If  canned  fruit  is  used,  first  drain  from  syrup. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  fruit  pulp,  and 
continue  beating;  turn  into  buttered  molds,  having  them 
3/4  full.  Set  molds  in  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  in  slow  oven 
until  firm,  which  may  be  determined  by  pressing  with  finger. 
Serve  with  soft  custard. 

ANGEL  CREAM 

Take  a  loaf  of  angel  cake  or  sunshine  cake,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  a  circle  from  the  center.  Fill  the  hollow  with 
whipped  cream.  Place  a  thin  slice  of  the  cake  on  as  a  cover, 
coat  the  entire  cake  with  a  heavy  chocolate  filling.  Set  in  a 
cool  place  until  needed.  Slice  as  you  would  a  frozen  pudding. 

SPLASH 

1/2  pound  marshmallows        1/2  cup  nut  meats 
I  dozen  macaroons  1  jar  cream 

Cut  the  marshmallows  into  small  pieces  and  break  up 
the  macaroons.  Whip  the  cream,  beat  in  the  other  ingredi- 
ents, adding  a  little  salt.  Serve  in  glasses,  chilled. 


SUGAR  209 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

1  cup  maple  syrup 
I  pint  cream 

Mix  and  beat  with  a  Dover  egg-beater  till  thick.  Put  in  a 
mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt. 

VANILLA  MOUSSE 

I  pint  cream 

4  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Whip  the  cream  and  place  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Return  to 
bowl  and  stir  in  lightly  the  powdered  sugar  and  the  flavoring. 
Place  in  a  mold  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  2  hours. 

COFFEE  PAKFAIT 

Pour  a  syrup  of  1/2  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  strong  coffee 
over  2  beaten  eggs.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 
Remove  from  the  stove  and  when  it  is  cool  combine  it  with 
I  pint  of  thick  cream  beaten  until  stiff.  Fill  mold  and  pack 
in  ice  and  salt  for  3  or  4  hours. 

FROZEN  ORANGE  WHIP 

I  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

2/3  cup  water  1  pint  heavy  cream 

1/4  cup  orange  juice  2  oranges 
Grated  rind  2  oranges 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  spins  a  thread. 
Add  the  orange  rind,  juice,  and  salt.  Cover  and  keep  in  a 
warm  place  1  hour,  then  cool.  Beat  the  cream  until  stiff 
and  add  the  orange  syrup  gradually,  beating  all  the  time. 
Cut  the  oranges  crosswise,  remove  the  pulp  with  a  spoon. 
Pour  the  juice  from  the  oranges  into  a  brick  mold,  then  put 
in  alternate  layers  of  cream  mixture  and  orange  pulp  until 


210     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

the  mold  is  filled  to  overflowing.  Pack  in  salt  and  finely- 
chopped  ice,  in  equal  parts.  Let  it  stand  2  hours.  Garnish 
with  candied  orange  peel. 

WALNUT  ICE 

I  cup  granulated  sugar        i  pint  cream  whipped 
I  cup  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  3  eggs  I  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads,  and  pour  it 
over  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  To  this,  add  the 
whipped  cream,  vanilla,  and  nut  meats,  folding  the  latter 
in  gently.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  freeze. 

1-2-3  ICE-CREAM 

Juice  and  part  of  grated  rind  of  I  lemon 

Juice  and  pulp  of  2  oranges 
3  bananas,  squashed  through  a  sieve 
2  cups  of  sugar 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff 
2  cups  of  cold  water 

Mix  all  together,  add  a  little  salt  and  freeze. 


CHAPTER  XIII 

FOOD  ACCESSORIES 
BEVERAGES  AND  CONDIMENTS 

Besides  the  food  substances  actually  needed  for  the 
maintenance  of  the  health  of  the  body,  we  have  other 
foods  which  are  added  to  give  variety  to  place  of  tea 
our  meals.  These  all  fall  in  the  class  of  and  coffee 
luxuries  and  cannot  be  afforded  by  the  poor.  Tea  and 
coffee  are  the  exceptions  to  this  statement,  for  though 
they  properly  belong  in  the  class  of  luxuries,  they  give 
so  much  comfort  that  they  are  considered  essential  in 
the  diet  by  the  very  poorest.  They  are  not,  however, 
foods,  although  they  take  away  the  sense  of  fatigue. 
They  lessen  the  feeling  of  hunger  but  tend  to  increase 
the  waste  of  tissue,  for  they  contain  substances  which 
are  stimulants  to  the  central  nervous  system.  They 
also  tend  to  retard  the  digestion  of  food  in  the  stomach, 
and  tea  in  particular  has  a  harmful  action  on  the  mu- 
cous lining  of  the  stomach  which  prevents  the  desire 
for  the  proper  amount  of  food  needed  by  the  body. 

These  two  beverages,  together  with  cocoa,  contain 
as  an  active  constituent  a  substance  belonging  to  the 
chemical  group  of  alkaloids.  This  is  similar  to  quinine, 
cocaine,  nicotine,  morphine,  and  strychnine.  Although 
this  substance  is  small  in  quantity  in  tea  when  properly 
made,  enough  is  present  to  be  harmful  when  the  tea 
is  drunk  after  the  teapot  is  allowed  to  stand  indefinitely 
on  the  back  of  the  stove.  When  cocoa  is  made  with 
milk,  the  food  value  is,  of  course,  greatly  increased, 


212     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

but  it  must  not  be  forgotten  that  it  still  contains  one  of 
the  alkaloids  and  should  be  given  to  children  in  very 
weak  form. 

Tea  was  first  introduced  into  England  in  1610  by  the 
Dutch  East  India  Company.  It  is  an  evergreen  shrub 
_  .  grown  chiefly  in  Japan,  China,  and  some 

parts  of  India.  The  delicate  leaves  and 
buds  at  the  ends  of  the  sprays  are  picked  during  the 
spring  and  summer.  Different  grades  of  teas  are  made 
from  the  different  leaves.  The  buds  make  the  finest 
pekoe  teas,  and  the  other  leaves  are  graded  in  descend- 
ing scale  according  to  their  size.  Oolongs  come  from 
Formosa  while  the  scented  Orange  Pekoe  is  from  the 
Canton  district.  Chinese  teas  as  a  whole  have  the  most 
delicate  flavor  but  lack  body.  Indian  teas,  on  the  other 
hand,  have  the  greatest  degree  of  body  and  astringency 
and  are  therefore  suitable  for  blending.  Ceylon  tea  has 
a  rich  and  peculiar  flavor.  The  difference  between  a 
green  and  a  black  tea  lies  in  the  curing.  For  a  green  tea 
the  leaves  are  steamed,  rolled,  and  dried  immediately, 
while  for  a  black  tea  the  leaves  are  dried  from  twelve  to 
twenty-four  hours,  rolled,  and  then  allowed  to  ferment 
before  drying.  Most  black  teas  are  blends  while  green 
teas  come  largely  from  northern  China  and  Japan. 

To  make  tea  properly,  water  should  be  freshly  drawn 
and  used  as  soon  as  it  boils.  It  should  then  be  poured  on 
How  to  the  tea  leaves  in  an  earthernware  pot  and 

make  tea  allowed  to  stand  three  to  five  minutes.  It 

should  then  be  poured  off  the  leaves,  as  a  longer  steep- 
ing extracts  more  of  the  harmful  constituents.  If  tea 
is  made  for  a  large  number  of  people,  as  for  a  reception, 
it  can  be  done  very  simply  before  the  reception  by 
pouring  a  small  amount  of  boiling  water  (about  ten 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  213 

teaspoonfuls  of  tea  to  a  pint  of  water)  on  the  tea- 
leaves,  letting  it  stand  for  four  minutes,  then  pouring 
it  off.  This  strong  decoction  may  then  be  served  from 
the  teapot  by  adding  only  about  a  tablespoonful  in  the 
cup  and  filling  it  up  with  boiling  water.  In  this  way 
every  cup  of  tea  served  during  the  afternoon  is  equally 
fresh  and  good. 

A  retired  Smyrna  merchant  introduced  the  use  of 
coffee  into  England  in  1652,  and  his  Greek  servant 
started  the  first  coffee-house  in  London. 
The  plant  is  a  native  of  Arabia  but  is 
now  grown  in  many  tropical  countries.  The  coffee  bean 
which  is  used  for  making  the  concoction  corresponds 
to  the  stone  in  a  fruit  similar  to  a  cherry.  The  pulp  of 
the  fruit  is  softened  by  fermentation  and  the  beans 
dried  in  the  air.  The  husk  is  removed  by  rolling  and  the 
beans  are  then  separated  and  sorted  according  to  size. 
They  are  shipped  raw  but  are  roasted  before  being 
ground,  in  order  to  develop  the  flavor.  There  are  several 
varieties  on  the  market,  those  from  Mocha  and  Java 
having  the  best  flavor.  The  ones  from  Mexico  and 
Brazil  are  not  so  expensive  and  are  constantly  growing 
in  popularity. 

Since  both  tea  and  coffee  are  stimulants  to  the  nerv- 
ous system  and  not  foods,  they  should  never  be  given 
to  children.  They  take  away  the  sense  of  fatigue  which 
is  the  reason  for  their  popularity,  especially  at  lunch, 
but  they  should  not  be  used  to  take  the  place  of  food. 
A  cup  of  coffee  alone  does  not  make  a  suitable  lunch 
for  anybody.  A  cup  of  tea  at  four  o'clock  in  the  after- 
noon when  the  vitality  is  at  a  low  point  is  a  good  stim- 
ulant, especially  when  taken  with  bread  and  butter 
or  toast  to  provide  the  food  the  body  needs  and  to 


214    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

prevent  any  irritating  effect  the  tea  may  have  on  the 
stomach. 

Cocoa  is  a  native  of  Mexico  and  was  introduced  into 
Europe  by  Columbus.  It  is  obtained  from  the  bean-like 
seeds  of  the  fruit  of  the  cacao  tree.  Both 
cocoa  and  chocolate  are  prepared  from 
these  seeds.  In  order  to  get  the  best  chocolate,  the  seeds 
are  dried,  fermented  in  heaps,  and  roasted.  This  devel- 
ops the  flavor  and  frees  the  seeds  from  their  husks.  The 
inner  portion  thus  obtained  is  broken  up  and  ground. 
When  the  fat  is  expressed  from  this  and  the  remainder 
pulverized,  we  have  cocoa.  Pure  cocoa  is  generally 
mixed  with  starch  or  sugar  to  keep  it  from  lumping. 
For  this  reason,  cocoa  to  be  well  made  should  be  boiled ; 
but  since  it  is  not  wise  to  boil  milk,  the  best  way  to 
make  cocoa  is  to  mix  the  powdered  cocoa  and  sugar  to- 
gether with  some  water  and  boil  this  for  four  or  five 
minutes.  The  milk  may  then  be  added  and  the  whole 
heated,  preferably  in  a  double  boiler.  The  addition  of 
a  little  salt  greatly  improves  the  flavor  of  the  cocoa. 

With  the  coming  of  prohibition  the  popularity  of 

fruit  drinks  has  notably  increased.  These  are  of  wide 

t,  -x  j  .  i  variety  and  may  be  made  with  a  basis  of 
Fruit  drinks  J     .  J  .     . 

tea  or  ginger  ale.  Since  fruit  is  such  a 
wholesome  article  of  diet,  the  use  of  lemonade,  orange- 
ade, grape  juice  and  other  fruit  juices  should  be  culti- 
vated, especially  for  young  people.  Their  attractiveness 
may  be  increased  by  using  different  combinations  of 
fruits. 

Other  food  accessories  used  to  give  flavor  to  the  diet 
contain  chemical  substances  known  as  essential  oils 
and  ethereal  salts.  These  are  found  in  herbs,  fruits,  and 
spices.  The  expert  cook  should  be  familiar  with  these 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  215 

and  should  understand  that  the  best  results  are  ob- 
tained by  a  judicious  mixture  of  flavors.  For  instance, 
the  much-despised  chocolate  cornstarch  pudding  as  it 
is  usually  served  in  a  restaurant  may  be  greatly  im- 
proved by  the  addition  of  a  little  coffee,  salt,  vanilla, 
and  cinnamon,  or  even  orange  and  sometimes  rose. 

Herbs: 

Anise:  seeds,  used  in  cookies. 

Bay-leaf:  leaves  of  a  small  shrub,  used  with  tomatoes  in 

sauces  and  soups. 
Basil:  leaves,  used  in  salads  and  walnut  ketchup. 
Fennel:  seeds,  used  for  liqueurs;  leaves,  with  fish. 
Garlic:  salads. 

Mint:  leaves,  used  in  sauce  for  lamb,  and  drinks. 
Marjoram: 
Saffron: 
Sage : 

Summer  savory: 
Tarragon:  leaves;  used  in  vinegar  for  salad  dressing; 

I  /4  teaspoon  to  1  cup  of  sauce  to  bring  out  the  flavor. 
Thyme:  leaves,  for  poultry  stuffing. 

Spices: 

Allspice:  an  evergreen  from  the  island  of  Jamaica.  The 
allspice  of  commerce  is  the  berries  of  cassia.  Used 
with  other  spices  in  soupstock  and  stews. 

Capers:  flower  buds  pickled  in  vinegar,  used  in  sauce  for 
mutton,  and  in  tartare  sauce. 

Caraway:  seeds,  used  in  cookies  and  rye  bread. 

Cassia:  bark  of  a  plant  from  China  and  Bengal,  a  variety 
of  cinnamon;  buds,  immature  fruit.  Used  for  flavor 
in  cakes,  puddings,  and  pickles. 

Celery:  seeds,  used  in  soupstock  and  creamed  soups. 

Cinnamon:  bark  of  a  laurel  from  Ceylon,  used  with 
other  spices,  cakes,  puddings,  and  pickles. 


used  for  poultry  stuffing. 


216     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Cloves:  dried  buds  from  a  plant  in  the  East  Indies,  same 

uses  as  cinnamon,  particularly  with  pickled  peaches. 

Ginger:   root  of  a  plant  growing  in  India  and  China, 

though  cultivated  in  Africa,  Australia,  and  tropical 

America,  used  in  gingerbread,  cookies,  and  puddings. 

Mace:  seedcoat  of  the  nutmeg,  a  good  flavor  in  creamed 

oysters  and  creamed  fish. 
Mustard:  seeds,  both  black  and  white;  used  in  sour 

pickles. 
Mustard:  prepared;  ground  with  salt,  spices,  and  vinegar, 

used  with  ham  and  corned  beef. 
Nutmeg:  seeds  of  a  tree  from  the  East  Indies,  dried  after 
washing  in  lime-water  and  powdered,  used  on  cus- 
tards, junket,  and  cottage  cheese. 
Peppers: 

Black:  dried,  immature  berries  with  the  hulls. 
White:  dried,  mature  berries  without  the  hulls. 
Red:  (i)  Paprika:  mild,  dried,  ripe  fruit  of  capsicum 
without  seeds. 

(2)  Cayenne :  active,  seeds. 

(3)  Tabasco :  sauce  prepared  from  capsicum. 
Curry  powder:  mixture  of  turmeric  and  other  spices,  used 

with  rice  and  mixtures  of  rice  and   chicken  and 
left-over  meat  or  fish. 

Extracts: 

Extracts  are  solutions  in  alcohol  of  the  odorous  principle 
derived  from  aromatic  fruits  and  plants.  They  contain 
essential  oils  like  thymol,  or  the  oil  of  thyme,  menthol, 
or  the  oil  of  peppermint,  and  the  oil  of  lemon  or  orange, 
These  are  all  used  mainly  to  flavor  cakes  and  desserts. 

Almond:  oil  of  bitter  almond,  or  oil  from  the  seed  of 

apricots  or  peaches. 
Anise:  oil  of  anise. 
Cinnamon:  oil  of  cinnamon. 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  217 

Clove:  oil  of  clove. 

Lemon:  oil  from  the  skin  of  lemons. 

Orange:  oil  from  the  skin  of  oranges. 

Peppermint:  oil  of  mint. 

Vanilla:  soluble  matter  of  the  vanilla  bean. 

Winter  green :  oil  of  wintergreen. 

Pickles,  Sauces,  etc. : 

A  pickle  is  a  food  substance,  usually  fruit  or  vegetable, 
preserved  in  any  kind  of  vinegar,  with  or  without 
spices,  without  taking  up  any  metallic  compound  other 
than  salt. 

Catchup  {ketchup,  catsup) :  made  from  properly  prepared 
pulp  of  clean,  sound,  fresh,  ripe  tomatoes,  with 
spices  and  with  or  without  sugar  and  vinegar.  Chop- 
ped capers,  chili,  horse-radish,  mustard,  or  ginger 
may  be  included. 

Walnut  catchup :  fresh  green  walnuts  ground  and  soaked 
in  vinegar  and  salt;  used  with  cold  meat,  particu- 
larly beef. 

Cassareep:  from  the  root  of  the  cassava,  with  spices;  used 
as  a  basis  for  sauces. 

Chutney:  from  mango  apple,  with  chilies,  spices,  lemon 
juice,  raisins,  figs,  salt,  and  sugar;  used  with  beef. 

Soy  sauce:  from  the  soy  bean,  fermented  and  mixed  with 
brine ;  used  largely  by  Chinese  with  rice  and  in  chop 
suey. 

Tabasco:  pulp  of  the  red  pepper  mixed  with  tomato,  in 
vinegar  as  a  preservative,  used  with  cheese  dishes  and 
where  a  very  hot  flavor  is  desired. 

Worcestershire:  from  cassareep,  with  spices,  garlic,  pep- 
pers, lime  juice,  curry,  brown  sugar,  and  vinegar; 
used  in  gravies  and  soup,  also  served  with  meats. 

Devonshire  sauce  and  Harvey  sauce  are  similar  to 
Worcestershire. 


218     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

BEVERAGES 

COLD  WATER  COFFEE 

i  cup  ground  coffee 
7  cups  cold  water 
1/4  egg 

Scald  granite-ware  coffeepot.  Wash  egg,  break,  and  dilute 
with  one  half  cup  of  cold  water,  stir  into  the  coffee,  and  mix 
well.  Add  the  rest  of  the  cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Remove  to  back  of  stove,  add  one  tablespoon  cold 
water,  and  allow  it  to  stand  a  few  minutes.  Egg  may  be 
omitted  and  i  /4  cup  cold  water  added  instead  of  I  table- 
spoon at  last  to  settle  coffee. 

HOT  WATER  COFFEE 

I  cup  ground  coffee  1/2  cup  cold  water 

7  cups  boiling  water  1  /4  egg 

Mix  cold  water,  egg,  and  coffee.  Add  boiling  water,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  then  set  it  back  where  it  will  not  boil  but 
keep  hot  for  10  minutes,  or  boil  3  minutes  and  set  aside  for 
10  minutes. 

FILTERED  COFFEE 

1  cup  finely  ground  coffee      6  cups  boiling  water 

Place  coffee  in  strainer,  strainer  in  coffeepot,  and  pot  in 
hot  water.  Add  boiling  water  gradually,  cover  between  addi- 
tions of  water  and  allow  it  to  filter.  If  desired  stronger  allow 
it  to  refilter.  Add  first  half-cup  of  water  by  tablespoons,  and 
rest  by  half -cups. 

TEA 

1  teaspoon  tea  1  cup  boiling  water 

Scald  an  earthenware  or  china  teapot.  Put  in  tea  and  pour 
over  it  boiling  water.  Let  it  stand  on  back  of  range  or  in 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  219 

warm  place  3  minutes.  Strain  and  serve  immediately,  either 
with  or  without  sugar  and  cream.  Avoid  second  steeping  of 
tea  leaves.  If  this  is  done  so  large  an  amount  of  tannin  is 
extracted  that  ill  results  may  follow. 

RUSSIAN  TEA 

Follow  recipe  for  making  tea.  Russian  tea  may  be  served 
either  hot  or  cold,  but  always  without  milk.  A  thin  slice  of 
lemon  is  allowed  for  each  cup.  Sugar  is  added  according  to 
taste.  As  in  Russia,  a  preserved  strawberry  may  be  allowed 
each  cup,  or  candied  cherries  may  be  used,  or  a  clove  added. 

ICED  TEA 

4  teaspoons  tea  2  cups  boiling  water 

Follow  recipe  for  making  tea,  strain  into  glasses  1/3  full 
of  cracked  ice.  Sweeten  to  taste.  The  flavor  is  much  finer  by 
chilling  the  infusion  quickly. 

CHOCOLATE 

I  1/2  squares  Baker's  chocolate  1  cup  boiling  water 

3  tablespoons  sugar  3  cups  milk 

Few  grains  salt 

Scald  milk,  melt  chocolate  in  saucepan  placed  over  hot 
water,  add  sugar,  salt,  and  gradually  boiling  water;  when 
smooth  place  on  range  and  boil  one  minute ;  add  to  scalded 
milk  in  double  boiler  and  cook  for  several  minutes.  Beat 
with  Dover  egg-beater  just  before  serving  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream  in  chocolate  cups.  1  1/2  ounces  vanilla 
chocolate  may  be  substituted  for  Baker's  chocolate,  and, 
being  sweetened,  requires  less  sugar.  3  tablespoons  cocoa 
may  be  used  instead  of  chocolate.  When  cocoa  is  used,  it 
should  be  boiled  with  a  little  water  for  three  minutes  before 
adding  it  to  the  milk.  One  yolk  of  egg  may  be  added  to  the 
cooked  chocolate  and  sugar  after  cooling  it,  and  before  the 
milk  is  added. 


220     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

ICED  COFFEE  AND  CHOCOLATE 

Mix  equal  parts  of  coffee  and  cold  chocolate.  Sweeten  with 
maple  syrup  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  A  spoonful  of 
vanilla  ice-cream  may  be  added  to  each  glass  instead  of  the 
whipped  cream  if  preferred. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

I  pineapple,  or  i  can  grated  pineapple 

1  cup  boiling  water 

2  cups  freshly  made  tea  (i  heaping  tablespoon  Ceylon  tea; 

steep  5  minutes) 
I  dozen  lemons,  the  juice 

3  oranges,  sliced  and  quartered 
I  quart  bottle  Apollinaris  water 

3  cups  sugar  boiled  with  I  1/2  cups  water,  6  to  8  minutes 
I  pint  water 
Ice 

Grate  pineapple,  add  water,  and  boil  15  minutes.  Strain 
through  jelly  bag,  pressing  out  all  the  juice;  let  cool,  and 
add  the  rest  of  the  fruit  juice,  the  tea,  and  syrup.  Add 
Apollinaris  water  just  before  serving.  Pieces  of  pineapple, 
strawberries,  mint  leaves,  or  slices  of  banana  are  sometimes 
added  as  a  garnish. 

LEMON  GINGER  ALE 

2  bottles  ginger  ale 
Juice  3  lemons 
3/4  cup  sugar 

Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  chilled  with  mint  leaves. 
GRAPE  JUICE  (1) 

Wash  grapes  and  pick  from  stems.  Put  fruit  in  preserving 
kettle  and  crush  slightly.  Heat  slowly  and  boil  gently  for 
half  an  hour.  Crush  fruit  with  wooden  spoon ;  strain  through 
cheesecloth  over  sieve  or  colander.  Drain  well,  then  draw 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  221 

the  edges  of  cheesecloth  together  and  twist  hard  to  press 
out  all  the  juice  possible.  Measure  strained  juice  and  put  in 
a  clean  preserving  kettle  and  on  fire.  When  it  boils  up,  draw 
back  and  skim.  Let  it  boil  up  again  and  skim.  Add  one  gill 
of  sugar  for  each  quart  of  juice.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Boil 
5  minutes,  skimming  carefully.  Fill  hot  sterilized  jars  or 
bottles.  Put  jars  in  a  moderate  oven  for  10  minutes  in  pans 
of  boiling  water.  Fill  jars  with  more  boiling  juice  and  seal. 

GRAPE  JUICE  (2) 

Prepare  grapes  as  above.  Put  in  double  boiler  (i8o°-200°), 
crush,  and  heat.  Strain,  put  in  sterilized  jars  or  bottles,  and 
set  in  water  which  is  kept  at  or  below  boiling  10  minutes. 
Fill  to  overflowing  with  boiling  juice  and  seal. 

SPICES,  PRESERVES,  AND  PICKLES 
GRAPE  PRESERVES 

I  pint  fruit  3/4  pint  sugar 

Wash  and  drain  grapes.  Remove  pulp  from  skins.  Heat 
pulp,  cook  10  to  15  minutes.  Strain  out  seeds.  Add  skins 
and  cook  10  minutes.  Measure.  Add  sugar  and  cook  until 
liquid  thickens. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE 

1  pint  fruit  3/4  pound  sugar 

Wash  and  drain  grapes.  Remove  from  stems.  Heat  to 
boiling  point;  mash  and  cook  until  seeds  come  out.  Strain 
out  seeds  and  skins.  Cook  10  minutes.  Measure.  Add  sugar 
and  boil  until  liquid  thickens.  Put  in  sterilized  jelly  glasses. 

SPICED  GRAPES 

8  pounds  grapes  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

3  pounds  sugar  2  tablespoons  cloves 

1  pint  vinegar,  scant 


222     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Whole  spices  may  be  substituted  in  place  of  the  ground. 
Cook  vinegar,  spices,  and  fruit  after  it  has  been  prepared 
10  to  20  minutes.  Add  sugar  and  boil  down  until  it  is  of 
right  consistency.  Prepare  grapes  the  same  as  for  preserved 
grapes.  Plums  may  be  used  in  place  of  grapes. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

{English  recipe) 

To  each  5  oranges  and  1  grapefruit  allow  2  lemons,  5 
pints  water,  and  5  pounds  sugar.  Cut  the  fruit  into  quarters 
and  remove  the  pips,  putting  them  to  soak  in  a  little  of  the 
water.  Slice  the  fruit  (rind  and  pulp)  very  thinly,  and  soak 
24  hours  in  the  rest  of  water.  Strain  the  pips  and  add  water 
from  them  to  the  rind.  Boil  the  whole  briskly  about  I  1/2 
hours  or  till  rind  is  tender,  then  add  sugar  and  boil  for 
another  1/2  hour.  Much  time  is  saved  by  putting  the  fruit 
through  the  meat-chopper. 

CARROT  AND  ORANGE  MARMALADE 

Scrape  and  put  through  food-chopper  sufficient  carrot  to 
make  2  cups;  add  1  orange  cut  in  thin  slices,  barely  cover 
with  water,  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  the  juice  from 
2  lemons,  a  small  piece  of  grated  ginger  root,  and  1  cup  of 
sugar.  Cook  slowly  until  thick,  put  in  jars,  and  cover  with 
melted  paraffin. 

PEACH  JAM  AND  MARMALADE 

Take  ripe  free-stone  peaches,  pare,  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
To  every  pound  of  peaches  allow  1  /2  pound  of  white  sugar. 
Put  the  sugar  over  the  peaches  and  let  them  stand  2  hours ; 
then  put  into  a  porcelain  kettle  on  the  fire,  and  boil  slowly, 
stirring  all  the  time  until  the  fruit  is  mashed  smooth  and  it 
almost  jellies. 

For  marmalade,  add  almost  as  much  sugar  as  fruit.  When 
done  add  to  1  /2  bushel  of  peaches  1  pint  of  hot  brandy. 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  223 

GREEN  TOMATO  MARMALADE 

8  pounds  green  tomatoes         1  lemon  cut  fine 

7  pounds  granulated  sugar     4  dessertspoons  ground  ginger 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  by  adding  a  little  water.  When 
boiling,  drop  into  it  the  tomatoes,  carefully  washed  and  dried 
and  all  the  spots  removed,  and  cut  in  slices.  Add  the  lemon 
and  ginger.  If  the  ginger  is  very  fresh  and  strong  a  less  quan- 
tity must  be  used.  Boil  all  well  together  till  thick  and  clear 
like  marmalade.  It  will  take  some  hours,  boiling  slowly. 
Stir  occasionally  to  keep  from  burning.  Put  hot  in  jelly 
glasses. 

TOMATO  MINCE  MEAT 

8  quarts  green  tomatoes  2  tablespoons  salt 
5  pounds  brown  sugar  1  cup  vinegar 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins  2  tablespoons  ground  cloves 

Candied  orange  peel  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

A  little  citron  I  tablespoon  nutmeg 

1  teacup  suet 

Chop  the  tomatoes  fine  or  put  them  through  a  food- 
chopper.  Draw  off  all  the  juice  and  add  as  much  fresh  water 
as  juice  and  scald  in  this  water.  Drain  off  all  this  liquor, 
add  the  sugar,  raisins,  suet,  vinegar,  and  salt,  and  cook 
until  dark  and  thick  (slow  cooking  is  best).  When  cool,  add 
the  spices  and  candied  fruit.  When  to  be  used  add  apple 
and  cider  or  brandy.  Put  up  in  air-tight  jars. 

TOMATO  PRESERVE 

I  pound  ripe  tomatoes  after  removing  skins 
I  pound  granulated  sugar 
Little  ginger  root 

Increase  quantities  in  same  proportion,  as  desired.  Re- 
move skin  from  ginger  root  with  boiling  water.  Boil  2  hours 


224    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  add  to  every  pound  of  sugar  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon.  Boil  one  half  hour,  or  longer  if  too  thin.  Bottle  hot. 

APPLE  GINGER 

4  pounds  apples  I  ounce  ginger  root,  green  preferred, 

4  pounds  sugar  but  white  will  do 

1  pint  water  Grated  rind  4  lemons 

Pare  apples  and  chop  fine  with  ginger  root.  Make  a  syrup 
of  sugar  and  water,  add  apple  and  grated  lemon  rind,  boil 
all  slowly  2  hours  or  until  it  looks  clear. 

CURRANT  CONSERVE 

21/2  pounds  currants 

I  1/2  pounds  raisins,  chopped 

21/2  pounds  sugar 

2  oranges,  grated  rind  and  pulp 

Boil  to  jelly. 

CHIPPED  PEARS 

8  pounds  pears  1/4  pound  Canton  ginger 

4  pounds  sugar  4  lemons 

Wipe  the  pears,  peel,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  the 
sugar  and  ginger  and  let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning 
add  the  lemons  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook  slowly  3  hours. 

PLUM  CONSERVE  (1) 

5  pounds  plums,  weighed  after  peeling  and  pitting 
5  pounds  granulated  sugar 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins  (not  the  seedless  ones)  cut  in  small 

pieces 
4  oranges,  grated  rind,  and  pulp,  chipped. 

Cook  the  plums  20  minutes  before  adding  the  sugar.  Put 
in  the  sugar  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  the  raisins  and  the 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  223 

oranges  and  cook  to  a  thick  conserve.  Put  hot  into  jelly 
glasses. 

PLUM  CONSERVE  (2) 

5  pounds  plums  '  2  oranges  (juice  and  grated 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins  rind) 

1  pound  walnuts  31/2  pounds  sugar 

.    Boil  40  minutes. 

RASPBERRY  BAR-LE-DUC 

1  quart  perfect  red  raspberries       3  cups  sugar    ^ 

1  cup  currant  juice  1  cup  red  raspberry  juice 

Combine  the  fruit  juices,  add  the  sugar,  let  boil  till  they 
are  very  thick  and  almost  like  jelly.  Drop  in  the  raspberries 
one  at  a  time,  cook  for  2  or  3  minutes,  ,and  remove  with  a 
skimmer  to  small  glasses.  When  all  the  berries  are  cooked, 
the  syrup  will  be  considerably  thinned,  so  boil  it  down  till 
very  thick  again,  pour  into  glasses  containing  the  raspberries, 
and  seal  as  usual. 

FRUIT  BUTTER 

1/4  pound  sugar  to  each  pound  fruit 
Do  not  add  any  water 

Peaches,  pears,  plums,  or  other  fruit  may  be  used  sepa- 
rately or  in  combination.  Skin  and  core  the  fruit.  Cook  until 
tender.  Add  the  sugar,  and  cook  until  of  the  right  thickness. 
Stir  carefully  while  cooking,  as  it  burns  easily. 

QUINCE  AND  CRANBERRY  JELLY 

2  quarts  cranberries 
6  quinces 

3  quarts  cold  water 

Cook  as  for  any  jelly,  and  for  each  cup  of  strained  juice, 
add  a  cup  of  sugar. 


226     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

PICKLING 

Sweet  Pickles 

Watermelon,  ripe  cucumber,  or  green  tomato 

8  pounds  fruit 

4  pounds  brown  sugar 

I  quart  vinegar 

'Stick  cinnamon  (1/3) 

,     ,.  ,        .  Cassia  buds  (1/6) 

I  cup  nuxed  whole  spices  1  ^^  berries  (i/3) 

.  Cloves  (1/6) 
Cut  watermelon  in  I  /4  inch  slices 
Cut  cucumber  in  1/2  inch  slices 
Cut  tomatoes  in  eighths,  if  small 

Cook  watermelon  or  cucumber  until  tender  in  boiling 
water  to  which  has  been  added  salt  in  proportions  of 

I  teaspoon  salt 
1  quart  water 

Turn  boiling  salted  water  over  tomatoes  and  set  them  on 
the  back  of  the  stove  until  tender.  Always  weigh  fruit  after 
cooking.  Make  syrup,  cook  fruit  in  it  until  clear.  Spices  may 
be  put  in  a  muslin  bag  and  removed  or  allowed  to  remain 
through  the  fruit.  Place  fruit  in  sterile  cans,  evaporate  syrup, 
cover,  and  seal. 

Oil  Pickles 

5  dozen  cucumbers  —  4  inches  long        1  cup  mustard  seed 
5  small  onions  3  cups  olive  oil 

I  cup  celery  salt  .        Vinegar 

Slice  cucumbers  with  onion,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  it 
stand  24  hours.  Draw  off  the  liquor  and  mix  with  the  cucum- 
ber and  onion,  celery  salt,  mustard  seed,  and  olive  oil.  Cover 
with  vinegar  and  bottle  after  a  few  days. 


FOOD  ACCESSORIES  227 

Chow  Chow 

1  gallon  (8  pounds)  green  tomatoes,  chopped 
I  gallon  (8  pounds)  cucumbers,  sliced 

1  gallon  (4  pounds)  cabbage,  chopped 
1/2  gallon  (4  pounds)  onions 

2  pounds  brown  sugar 
1/2  cup  salt 

1/4  pound  white  mustard  seed 
2  ounces  celery  seed 
2  ounces  turmeric  (or  not) 

2  teaspoons  black  pepper 

Mix,  cover  with  vinegar,  heat,  and  seal  in  sterile  jars. 

Mustard  Pickle 

2  quarts  green  tomatoes  2  quarts  vinegar 

2  quarts  small  onions  4  tablespoons  mustard 

4  green  peppers  1  tablespoon  turmeric  powder 

1  quart  small  cucumbers     2/3  cup  flour 

2  cauliflower  31/2  cups  sugar 

Cut  the  vegetables  in  pieces  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
let  stand  overnight.  In  the  morning  boil  in  brine  a  few  min- 
utes and  drain.  Scald  the  vinegar,  mix  the  mustard,  flour, 
and  turmeric  to  a  paste  with  water.  Add  to  the  vinegar,  and 
when  thick,  add  the  vegetables.  Heat  through  and  put  in 
jars. 

Pepper  Hash 

12  red  peppers  or  2  cups  when  chopped 
12  green  peppers  or  2  cups  when  chopped 
25  onions  or  14  cups  when  chopped 
Chop  fine  and  cover  with  boiling  water 

for  5  minutes,  drain 
Scald  1  quart  vinegar  "1 

3  cups  sugar  >  Cook  for  20  minutes 
2  tablespoons  salt       J 


228     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Chili  Sauce 

15  large  ripe  tomatoes 
6  onions 

4  red  peppers 

1/2  head  cabbage  or  1  small  one 
Sugar  to  taste 
3  tablespoons  salt 

5  cups  vinegar 

Chop  all  fine  and  cook  1  hour,  and  then  stir  in 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon 
1  tablespoon  mustard 
I  tablespoon  celery  salt 
I  teaspoon  cloves 
Seal  for  use 

Chutney 

1  pound  apples,  peeled  12  ripe  tomatoes,  medium  size 
3/4  pound  raisins  1  ounce  white  mustard  seed 

6  small  onions  4  ounces  salt 

2  red  or  green  peppers 

Skin  the  tomatoes  and  put  through  the  meat-chopper. 
Pour  off  as  much  juice  as  possible  from  them.  Put  the  other 
vegetables  through  the  chopper,  then  into  a  crock.  Boil 
I  quart  of  vinegar  and  2  cups  of  sugar.  When  cool  pour  it 
over  the  other  ingredients  in  the  crock  and  stir  occasionally 
for  a  few  days. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

THE  USE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY 

Foods  must  primarily  furnish  an  adequate  supply  of 
food  material,  but  they  must  also  furnish  this  material 
in  such  form  as  can  be  utilized  by  the  sys-  a  process  of 
tern.  This  process  of  food  utilization  is  combustion 
really  one  of  combustion,  similar  to  that  in  a  stove  or 
furnace  where  the  fuel  material  combines  with  oxygen 
and  gives  off  heat.  It  takes  place  in  the  cells  of  all  tissue 
and  is  very  slow.  Food  material,  like  any  other  fuel,  if 
burned  in  the  air,  can  be  entirely  consumed,  leaving 
nothing  but  ashes,  but  when  utilized  in  the  body  the 
process  of  combustion  is  slower  and  less  complete. 

Before  combustion  can  take  place  in  the  body  all 
food  must  be  put  into  the  form  in  which  it  can  be  car- 
ried by  the  blood  and  utilized  by  the  cells.  The  first 
step  in  this  process  is  to  change  solid  foods  into  fluids. 
For  this,  plenty  of  water  must  be  supplied  either  be- 
tween meals  or  with  the  meals.  The  insoluble  foods 
that  cannot  be  put  directly  into  solution  must  be 
changed  into  chemical  compounds  that  can  be  dis- 
solved. These  processes  are  partly  mechanical  and 
partly  chemical. 

THE  ORGANS  OF  DIGESTION 

The  organs  that  accomplish  this  work  in  the  body  in- 
clude the  following:  the  mouth,  the  stomach,  the  small 
intestine,  and  the  large  intestine.  These  are  arranged  as 
we  see  them  on  the  accompanying  figure.  This  shows 


230    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 


also  the  lungs,  the  heart,  and  the  liver,  all  of  which  play 
an  important  part  in  the  whole  process  of  the  utili- 
zation of  food.  The  lungs  are  the  source  of  supply  for 

the  oxygen  which  en- 
ters into  combination 
with  the  food  in  the 
process  of  combus- 
tion, and  the  liver 
acts  as  a  storehouse 
for  the  food  as  it 
is  taken  up  by  the 
blood  from  the  in- 
testines before  it  is 
scattered  to  the  vari- 
ous tissues  through- 
out the  body. 
In  considering  these 
Mouth  organs  and  the 
part  each  plays 
in  digestion,  we  shall 
begin  with  the  mouth. 
Here  the  action  is 
largely  physical  or 
mechanical.  The 
teeth  grind  the  food,  and  the  saliva  flowing  constantly 
from  the  glands  into  the  mouth  supplies  the  liquid 
to  dissolve  the  ground-up  food,  or  at  least  soften  it 
so  that  the  other  juices  can  dissolve  it.  Here  in  the 
saliva  we  have  the  first  one  of  a  group  of  interesting 
chemical  compounds  that  are  provided  by  nature  to 
cause  chemical  changes.  Their  action  is  somewhat 
similar  to  the  action  of  the  molds  and  yeasts.  Those 
micro-organisms,  however,  are  called  "  organized  fer- 


THE  USE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY     231 

ments,"  because  they  themselves  grow,  and  in  the 
process  of  growing  secrete  substances  which  cause 
chemical  changes  in  the  surrounding  food  material. 
The  substances  in  the  body  which  serve  such  a  very 
important  function  in  the  process  of  digestion  are 
called  "  unorganized  ferments,"  because  they  simply 
cause  chemical  changes  without  changing  themselves. 
Their  scientific  name  is  "enzyme,"  and  in  order  to  ex- 
plain them,  the  simile  is  often  used  of  the  lock  and 
key,  each  key  fitting  one  peculiar  lock  and  one  only,  so 
that  each  enzyme  can  cause  one  chemical  change  for 
one  particular  food,  and  if  it  does  not  have  a  chance  to 
work,  the  food  goes  unchanged  or  undigested.  This  fact 
shows  the  great  importance  of  proper  mastication  of 
food.  The  saliva  must  become  thoroughly  mixed  with 
the  food  substance  in  order  that  the  enzyme  which  it 
contains  may  act  upon  starch,  converting  it  into  sugar. 
This  action  continues  while  the  food  passes  down  the 
throat  into  the  stomach  and  there  continues  for  a  time 
while  the  food  is  more  or  less  stratified. 

In  the  stomach  among  the  substances  present  in  the 
gastric  juice  is  free  hydrochloric  acid  which  ultimately 
stops  the  action  of  the  saliva  on  starch.  Action  in  the 
If  then  the  starch  is  not  acted  upon  by  the  stomach 
saliva,  it  passes  unchanged  through  the  stomach  into 
the  small  intestine  which  gives  it  an  opportunity  to  be- 
come fermented.  The  gastric  juice  contains  enzymes  as 
well  as  hydrochloric  acid.  The  most  important  of  these 
is  pepsin  which  acts  on  protein  material,  breaking  it 
down  into  two  simpler  forms.  Rennin,  another  enzyme, 
is  also  present  in  the  gastric  juice;  this  has  the  effect  of 
curdling  milk ;  a  singular  action  because  the  aim  of  all 
digestion  is  to  put  food  into  soluble  form,  whereas  the 


232    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

curdling  of  milk  is  solidifying  the  protein  material  that 
is  already  in  liquid  form.  These  solid  proteins  are  re- 
dissolved  by  the  aid  of  the  pepsin  in  the  gastric 
juices.  The  juices  of  the  stomach  have  little  effect  on 
fats  except  to  put  some  into  emulsified  form.  The 
acid  present  in  the  stomach  also  dissolves  the  cell 
walls  that  surround  fat  globules,  making  it  possible  for 
the  juices  of  the  intestines  to  act  upon  the  fat. 

Up  to  this  point  the  processes  of  digestion  are  largely 
preparatory.  Certain  of  the  simpler  protein  compounds 
Action  in  small  and  some  mineral  matter  are  directly  used 
intestine  by  ^he  body  from   the    stomach,   being 

taken  up  by  the  blood  through  the  walls  of  the  stomach. 
The  largest  proportion  of  the  food,  however,  passes  on 
to  the  small  intestine.  Here  the  great  work  of  digestion 
goes  on.  The  food  itself  is  pushed  along  by  muscular 
action,  entirely  involuntary.  In  fact  all  of  the  process 
of  digestion  is  involuntary  after  the  food  leaves  the 
mouth.  In  the  small  intestine  we  have  three  dis- 
tinct secretions,  each  containing  important  enzymes. 
The  first  of  these  is  the  secretion  from  the  pancreatic 
gland.  This  contains  enzymes  which  complete  the 
change  of  starch  to  sugar;  break  up  fats  and  reduce 
protein  substances  to  their  simplest  forms. 

From  the  walls  of  the  intestines  we  have  the  second 
of  the  secretions.  This  contains  enzymes  which  act 
upon  each  of  the  distinct,  complex  sugars,  reducing 
them  to  simpler  forms. 

The  third  of  these  intestinal  secretions  is  the  bile, 
which  makes  the  conditions  for  all  of  these  changes 
more  favorable,  helping  especially  in  the  digestion  of 
fats.  All  of  these  secretions  are  alkaline  and  neutralize 
the  acid  carried  in  from  the  stomach. 


THE  USE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY     233 

There  are  no  digestive  enzymes  present  in  the  large 
intestine.  The  mechanical  motion  of  this  intestine, 
however,  works  the  food  back  and  forth,  Large 
forcing  it  back  into  the  small  intestine  to  intestine 
insure  as  complete  digestion  as  possible.  The  waste 
that  is  left  is  then  eliminated  from  the  body.  The 
movements  of  this  tract  should  be  normal.  If  they  are 
too  rapid  the  patient  suffers  with  diarrhea.  If  they  are 
too  sluggish  a  condition  of  constipation  results.  Hence 
bulky  foods  such  as  fruits  and  green  vegetables,  and 
acid  foods,  as  oranges,  lemons,  and  tomatoes,  are  de- 
sirable in  the  diet  because  they  have  an  exciting  effect 
on  the  action  of  the  intestines. 

INFLUENCES  FOR  GOOD  DIGESTION 

The  flow  of  all  of  the  digestive  secretions  is  depend- 
ent upon  several  things.  Perhaps  the  most  important 
is  a  regular  time  for  meals.  The  system  becomes  ad- 
justed to  a  regular  demand  for  the  flow  of  these  diges- 
tive juices,  and  the  supply  corresponds  to  the  demand. 
Also,  proper  mastication  is  always  a  signal  to  the  secre- 
tions of  the  stomach  and  intestines  to  be  ready  for  their 
share  in  the  work.  The  sight,  smell,  and  taste  of  foods 
have  a  direct  effect  upon  the  flow  of  the  juices.  Fre- 
quently one  does  not  feel  hungry  until  one  has  a  whiff 
of  food  being  prepared  for  dinner.  Then  the  familiar 
gnawing  feeling  of  hunger  becomes  apparent.  This  is  a 
physiological  fact  caused  by  the  flow  of  the  secretions, 
due  to  the  odor  of  food.  The  nervous  state  of  the  person 
has  a  direct  effect  on  the  flow  of  the  secretions.  Fa- 
tigue, worry,  and  anger  all  tend  to  retard  digestion,  so 
that  it  is  far  better  for  a  very  tired  person  to  take  a 
glass  of  warm  milk  or  a  cup  of  soup,  even  if  it  is  near 


234     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

the  regular  meal  hour,  and  rest  for  an  hour  before 
eating  a  hearty  meal.  Attractive  service  and  pleasing 
companionship  both  tend  to  good  digestion.  Good 
humor  at  meal  time  is  a  valuable  aid  to  digestion. 

Concentrated  foods  such  as  sugar  have  a  very  irri- 
tating effect  on  the  lining  of  the  intestinal  tract,  which 
is  one  reason  why  candy  is  unwholesome  between 
meals.  The  proportion  in  which  fats,  protein,  and  car- 
bohydrate are  eaten,  affects  digestion.  Since  fat  is  so 
largely  digested  in  the  intestines,  food  that  is  coated 
with  fat,  as  are  foods  fried  in  fat,  pass  through  the 
stomach  without  giving  the  juices  in  the  stomach  a 
chance  to  work  upon  the  food  material,  hence,  fatty 
foods  cannot  be  easily  digested  by  delicate  persons  or 
those  of  sedentary  habits,  but  may  be  by  vigorous 
persons  doing  heavy  exercise  who  are  able  to  utilize 
the  energy  provided  by  foods  retained  a  long  time  in 
the  intestines. 

The  part  so  far  described  of  the  process  of  the  utiliza- 
tion of  foods  in  the  body  is  called  digestion.  The  next 
stage  of  the  process  is  called  absorption. 

ABSORPTION 

When  the  food  has  been  put  into  soluble  form  it  en- 
ters the  circulation  and  is  distributed  as  needed  to 
the  various  tissues  throughout  the  body.  The  greatest 
amount  of  absorption  takes  place  in  the  small  intes- 
tine, though  some  of  the  mineral  salts  and  the  simpler 
proteins  are  absorbed  from  the  stomach,  and  some  food 
can  be  used  by  the  body  from  the  larger  intestine,  as  is 
proved  by  the  ability  to  keep  a  patient  alive  when 
rectal  feeding  alone  has  to  be  relied  upon.  Only  such 
foods  can  be  used  for  rectal  feeding,  however,  as  are 


THE  USE  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY     235 

predigested,  since  there  are  no  enzymes  present  in  the 
large  intestines. 

USES  OF  FOOD  IN  THE  BODY 

The  food  material  as  absorbed  is  carried  by  the 
blood,  together  with  oxygen  taken  up  from  the  lungs, 
to  each  cell  in  every  part  of  the  body.  Utilization  of 
this  food  material  by  the  cells  constitutes  life  and  is  not 
thoroughly  known.  The  protoplasm  of  the  cell  itself 
plays  an  important  part  in  this  process.  Some  of  the 
material  is  utilized  by  the  cell  for  repair  and  new 
growth.  The  rest  of  the  material  goes  through  the 
process  of  combustion  or  oxidation  which  is  caused  by 
the  activity  of  the  cells.  Starch,  now  in  the  form  of 
sugar,  sugars,  and  fats  are  burned  to  form  carbonic 
acid  and  water.  If  these  foods  are  eaten  in  excess  of  the 
body  requirements  they  are  stored  in  the  body  as  fat. 
Hence  a  constant  gain  in  weight  of  an  adult  is  a  sign 
of  over-eating  or  under-exercise,  and  can  be  avoided 
with  care  of  the  diet.  It  is  a  sign  of  self-indulgence.  In 
the  burning  of  protein,  on  the  other  hand,  the  process 
is  not  so  complete.  Some  of  the  hydrogen  and  of  the 
carbon  as  well  as  the  nitrogen  is  left  in  the  waste  prod- 
ucts which  are  carried  off  in  the  urine  in  the  form  of 
urea  and  uric  acid.  Hence  the  heat  produced  from 
protein  food  is  less  in  the  body  than  if  the  same  foods 
were  burned  in  the  furnace. 

THE  ELIMINATION  OF  WASTES 

In  this  process  of  utilization  of  the  food  substances 
by  the  cells  to  obtain  muscular  energy  with  its  resulting 
heat,  there  are  certain  waste  products.  These  are  car- 
ried by  the  blood  to  the  various  points  in  the  body 


236    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

where  they  are  thrown  off.  Some  of  these  waste  prod- 
ucts are  the  nitrogenous  compounds  spoken  of  in  the 
paragraph  above.  These  compounds  are  the  natural 
result  of  cell  activity  and  if  protein  is  not  provided  in 
the  food  it  will  be  taken  from  the  cell  itself,  which 
causes  the  wasting  away  of  the  tissue.  These  products 
are  carried  by  the  blood  to  the  kidneys  where  they  are 
excreted.  A  second  waste  product  is  carbon  dioxide, 
which  is  carried  by  the  venous  blood  back  to  the  lungs 
and  is  exhaled.  A  third  waste  product  is  water.  This 
can  be  given  off  from  the  lungs  in  the  form  of  water 
vapor,  or  excreted  from  the  kidneys  in  urine,  or  from 
the  skin  as  perspiration.  "Insensible  perspiration"  by 
a  person  at  rest  may  amount  to  60  per  cent  of  the 
water  eliminated  through  the  kidneys.  It  may  be  many 
times  as  much  in  the  case  of  a  person  at  hard  labor. 
The  last  waste  product  is  the  mineral  matter  from  the 
food  in  excess  of  body  requirements.  Some  of  this  is 
returned  to  the  digestive  tract  and  eliminated  through 
the  large  intestine.  The  elements  eliminated  in  this 
way  are  phosphorus,  calcium,  and  iron,  while  others, 
such  as  potassium  and  sodium,  are  found  in  the  urine. 


CHAPTER  XV 

THE  MEASUREMENT  OF  FOOD  VALUES 

According  to  the  definition  of  food  that  we  gave  when 
we  were  discussing  the  chemical  composition  of  foods, 
Body  need  we  said  that  there  were  two  functions  for 
for  fuel  fooci  [n  tfie  body.  The  first  of  these  was  the 

providing  of  heat  and  energy,  and  the  other  the  build- 
ing of  tissue.  The  body  is  similar  to  any  machine  in 
that  it  must  have  fuel  of  some  sort  to  keep  it  going. 
An  automobile  is  absolutely  helpless  with  an  empty  gas- 
oline tank,  and  a  locomotive  is  powerless  to  pull  a  heavy 
train  unless  steam  is  supplied  by  the  boiler.  The  body 
also,  in  order  to  perform  work  of  any  kind,  must  have 
fuel.  The  work  performed  is  of  two  kinds.  Whenever 
we  move  a  muscle,  we  are  performing  work;  in  taking 
a  step  the  body  must  lift  its  own  weight.  Of  course  the 
more  violent  the  work  done  by  the  body,  the  more  the 
fuel  that  must  be  provided.  The  body,  however,  is  doing 
another  type  of  work  all  the  time,  like  a  clock.  The 
heart  is  ever  in  motion,  performing  enough  work  in  the 
course  of  twenty-four  hours  to  be  sufficient  to  raise  a 
man  twenty-five  hundred  feet.  At  the  same  time,  with 
every  breath  we  take  there  is  muscular  energy  ex- 
pended in  the  expansion  and  contraction  of  the  lungs 
and  diaphragm.  Also  every  meal  eaten  must  be  di- 
gested, and  this  requires  from  three  to  five  hours  of 
steady  muscular  activity. 

There  is  no  other  way  to  obtain  all  of  the  fuel  thus 
required  by  the  body  except  from  the  food  we  eat.  The 


MEASUREMENT  OF  FOOD  VALUES    239 

sun  is  the  source  of  all  energy  on  the  earth.  Plants  are 

able  to  transform  this  energy  received  from  _    ,  -    . 
1       r  r  ,.   1  11  •  Fuel  foods 

the  sun  in  the  form  of  light  and  heat  into 

chemical  substances,  combining  it  with  elements  from 
the  air,  soil,  and  water  to  form  energy-bearing  sub- 
stances which  are  stored  in  its  tissues.  As  we  have  seen, 
these  are  carbohydrates,  fats,  and  proteins.  They  are 
found  in  all  kinds  of  vegetable  foods  in  different  pro- 
portions and  can  be  used  directly  as  human  food.  Or 
they  may  be  used  as  food  for  animals  and  the  energy 
contained  in  them  utilized  for  the  life  processes  of  the 
animal  and  transformed  into  animal  flesh.  Only  a  small 
percentage  of  the  energy  in  the  plants  is  left  to  be 
stored  in  the  flesh  of  the  animal,  since  most  of  it  must 
be  utilized  for  muscular  energy  and  heat.  The  animal's 
flesh,  however,  which  contains  fat  and  protein,  is  also 
used  for  human  food,  and  becomes  another  source  of 
fuel  for  the  body. 

When  comparing  one  piece  of  string  with  another 
piece,  we  use  a  unit  of  measure  as  a  basis  for  compari- 
son; we  say  one  is  three  feet  long  and  the  Heat  unit: 
other  five  feet,  the  foot  rule  being  a  stand-  ca^one 
ard  measure  for  length.  In  the  same  way  we  say  one 
stone  weighs  two  pounds  and  another  one  four  pounds, 
the  pound  being  the  unit  of  measure  for  weight.  In  the 
same  way  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  standard  unit  of 
measure  in  order  to  compare  the  amount  of  heat  given 
by  one  food  as  compared  with  that  given  by  another. 
For  this  purpose  the  calorie  is  used.  Scientifically  the 
calorie  is  very  carefully  defined  with  allowances  made 
for  air  pressure  and  other  technical  qualifications.  For 
our  purpose,  however,  it  is  necessary  to  know  only 
that  it  is  the  term  for  the  quantity  of  heat  required 


240    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

to  raise  one  pint  of  water  40  F.  For  instance,  if  two 
cupfuls  of  water  are  drawn  from  the  faucet  and  placed 
in  a  saucepan,  the  temperature  of  the  water  will  prob- 
ably be  about  500  F.  If  this  quantity  of  water  is  placed 
over  a  gas  flame  and  the  temperature  watched  with  a 
thermometer,  by  the  time  the  water  has  been  raised 
from  500  F.  to  540  F.  we  have  burned  up  one  calorie  of 
heat  in  the  form  of  gas.  It  is  to  be  remembered  that 
a  calorie  is  always  the  measure  for  a  quantity  of  heat. 
With  the  calorie  used  as  a  standard,  the  various  food 
substances  have  been  actually  burned  in  order  to  find 
how  much  heat  a  given  weight  would  produce.  This 
is  very  carefully  done  in  an  instrument  known  as  the 
bomb  calorimeter.  A  known  weight  of  the  food  to  be 
examined  is  burned  in  pure  oxygen  in  a  gas-tight 
chamber  surrounded  by  a  known  quantity  of  water. 
The  change  in  the  temperature  of  the  water  will  show 
the  amount  of  heat  liberated.  In  this  way  all  of  our 
American  food  materials  have  been  examined,  and  the 
number  of  calories  produced  by  a  pound  of  each  has 
been  published  in  a  long  list  by  the  Bureau  of  Chemis- 
try of  the  Department  of  Agriculture.  It  has  also  been 
found  that  the  food  will  yield  to  the  body  practically 
the  same  amount  of  heat  that  it  does  when  it  is  burned 
in  the  calorimeter.  The  pure  food  substances  will  give 
the  following  quantities  of  heat: 

Food  substance  Quantity  Calories 

Pure  carbohydrate...       I  oz.  113 

Pure  protein 1  oz.  113 

Pure  fat 1  oz.  256 

We  notice  that  fat  yields  two  and  a  quarter  times  as 
much  heat  for  a  given  weight  as  do  carbohydrates  and 
proteins.   The   two  latter  yield  the  same   amount. 


Quantity 

Calories 

1  gram 

4.1 

1  gram 

4.1 

1  gram 

9-3 

MEASUREMENT  OF  FOOD  VALUES    241 

Foods  then  which  contain  a  large  amount  of  fat  are  the 
best  fuel  food. 

Foods  which  contain  a  large  amount  of  water  and 
woody  fiber  have  a  proportionately  low  fuel  value. 

The  figures  as  published  by  the  Department  of  Agri- 
culture are  extremely  complex  and  are  not  in  a  form 
that  can  be  readily  used  by  the  average  100-calorie 
housekeeper.  In  order  to  overcome  this  Portions 
difficulty,  Dr.  Langworthy  of  the  Department  devised 
the  scheme  known  as  One  Hundred  Calorie  Portions; 
that  is,  he  found  that  many  of  our  common  food  ma- 
terials were  approximately  one  hundred  calories  in  the 
quantity  ordinarily  used  in  the  household.  These  por- 
tions are  only  approximate  and  therefore  discrepancies 
are  found  in  different  lists.1  Some  of  the  most  common 
of  these  portions  are  as  follows: 

Butter  or  other  fats,  1  tablespoon 

Bread,  I  slice  (3  in.x3  I/2  "l.x  1  in.) 

Uneeda,  4  crackers 

Orange,  1  large 

Eggs,  1  1/3  medium 

Potato,  I  medium 

Meat,  2  ounces,  cooked,  lean 

Sugar,  2  tablespoons,  granulated 

Sweet  chocolate,  about  3/4  ounces 

After  it  is  known  how  much  fuel  our  foods  can  give 
to  the  body,  it  is  necessary  to  know  how  much  the  body 
actually  needs.  The  test  of  a  normal  diet  a  sufficient 
for  an  adult  is  the  maintenance  of  an  diet 
average  weight  together  with  full  health  and  efficiency. 
For  a  child  it  is  shown  by  a  steady  gain  in  weight,  by 

1  The  most  usable  list  of  these  portions  is  to  be  found  in  the  appendix  of  Feeding  the 
Family,  by  Mary  Swartz  Rose.  (Macmillan,  1917.) 


242     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

good  color,  quiet  sleep,  and  general  good  nature.  If  an 
adult  is  steadily  losing  in  weight  and  there  are  no  path- 
ological conditions  to  account  for  it,  it  is  pretty  sure 
that  something  is  wrong  with  either  the  kind  or  the 
quantity  of  the  food  eaten.  If  on  the  other  hand,  a  per- 
son is  steadily  gaining  in  weight,  he  is  not  exercising 
sufficiently  for  the  amount  of  food  eaten ;  or,  to  put  the 
same  idea  in  another  way,  he  is  eating  more  than  his 
daily  needs  require.  It  is  quite  possible  to  find  a  point 
at  which  the  body  weight  can  be  maintained  where  the 
individual  is  at  his  best  and  does  not  feel  dragged  out 
at  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  When  this  point  is 
once  found,  it  can  and  should  be  maintained  with  care 
and  thought. 

In  order  to  find  actual  figures  to  state  the  body's  re- 
quirements, studies  were  made  in  two  ways.  The  first, 
known  as  the  statistical  method,  was  a  study  of  the 
actual  food  consumed  by  groups  of  people  living  a  nor- 
mal life  and  performing  the  same  type  of  work.  Many 
of  these  studies  have  been  made  all  over  the  world. 
The  other  one,  known  as  the  experimental  method, 
was  a  study  of  the  actual  food  requirements  of  differ- 
ent individuals  living  under  different  conditions.  This 
required  an  elaborate  apparatus  known  as  the  respira- 
tion calorimeter  by  which  it  was  possible  to  measure 
under  fixed  conditions  the  amount  of  energy  given  off 
from  the  body  in  the  form  of  work  and  heat.  The  re- 
sults obtained  from  both  of  these  methods  showed  that 
the  food  required  varies  directly  with  the  amount  of 
energy  expended;  that  is,  the  man  digging  a  ditch  in 
the  street  and  the  lumberman  at  work  in  the  Maine 
woods  require  far  more  food  than  a  man  who  sits  at 
his  desk  all  day,  or  even  than  the  man  who  stands  be- 


MEASUREMENT  OF  FOOD  VALUES   243 

hind  the  counter  day  after  day.  Food  requirements 
were  also  found  to  vary  with  the  age  of  the  individual, 
the  sex,  the  body  weight,  and  the  mode  of  life.  Growing 
boys  and  girls,  particularly  between  the  ages  of  fourteen 
and  twenty,  were  found  to  require  actually  more  food 
than  their  fathers  and  mothers,  though  their  body 
weight  was  less.  As  the  individual  grows  older,  the  life 
processes  slow  down  and  not  so  much  food  is  required. 
With  these  points  in  mind,  certain  definite  stand- 
ards on  a  twenty-four  hour  basis  have  Dietary 
been  adopted  for  different  occupations  as  standards 
follows: 

Mode  of  Life                                  Women  Men 

(  Calories)  ( Calories) 

Those  who  sit  at  their  work 2000  2500 

Those  who  stand  at  their  work 2400  3000 

Those  who  use  back  muscles  at  their  work. . .     2800  3500-6000 

It  might  be  of  interest  to  note  that  the  United  States 
Army  active  service  ration  is  4500  calories,  and  that  at 
one  of  our  big  boys'  schools,  the  boys  were  eating  5000 
calories  a  day.  The  average  amount  needed  by  a  woman 
doing  her  own  housework  is  2400  to  2500  calories  a 
day.  The  days  she  does  the  washing  or  hard  scrub- 
bing, she  should  eat  more  than  on  other  days,  and  she 
should  not  allow  herself  to  become  so  tired  that  she 
cannot  eat  at  all.  This  can  be  prevented  by  taking  a 
glass  of  milk  with  bread  and  butter  in  the  middle  of 
the  morning  before  she  gets  too  tired  to  eat  her  dinner. 

When  speaking  of  food  requirements,  we  must  take 
into  consideration  other  things  besides  the  fuel  value 
of  the  food  itself.  According  to  our  defini-  Need  for 
tion  of  food,  the  providing  of  energy  and  building 
heat  is  only  half  of  the  work  done  by  foods.  matenal 
The  other  half  is  the  providing  of  the  actual  material  out 


244     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

of  which  the  body  is  built;  that  is,  our  bodies  are  far 
more  wonderful  than  any  man-made  machine.  If  an 
automobile  bursts  a  tire  or  loses  an  important  nut,  no 
amount  of  gasoline  burned  in  the  engine  will  mend  the 
tire  or  will  replace  the  nut.  If,  however,  a  child  breaks 
an  arm  or  has  a  cut  finger,  all  that  the  doctor  does  is 
to  set  the  bone  straight,  or  make  sure  that  there  is  no 
dirt  in  the  cut.  The  healing  process  in  both  cases  is 
carried  on  entirely  by  the  body  itself.  The  blood  brings 
to  the  injured  tissue  those  elements  which  are  neces- 
sary to  make  new  tissue. 

The  building  material  needed  by  the  body  and  to  be 
supplied  by  the  food  has  already  been  spoken  of,  but 
Protein  we  will  review  it  rapidly  here.  The  most 

needed  important  is  nitrogen,  which  is  provided 

in  all  protein  foods  and  is  required  for  different  tissues. 
It  is  thought  that  different  proteins  provide  building 
material  for  different  tissues.  Some  of  the  proteins  in 
our  foods  are  better  than  others  for  muscle-building 
material,  and  so  we  have  what  are  known  as  complete 
and  incomplete  proteins.  Gelatine  belongs  to  this  latter 
class  of  proteins.  Since  the  value  of  protein  foods 
varies  in  this  way,  it  is  well  to  use  a  variety  of  protein 
foods  and  not  to  rely  upon  a  single  food  for  the  sole 
source  of  nitrogenous  material  in  the  body. 

The  quantity  of  protein  absolutely  required  by  each 
man  in  twenty-four  hours  has  been  under  discussion 
for  some  years.  Dr.  Atwater  felt  that  125  grams  was 
not  too  much.  In  recent  years,  however,  it  has  been 
found  possible  to  maintain  bodily  health  on  a  smaller 
quantity,  from  80  to  90  grams.  With  war  conditions, 
the  protein  content  of  the  diet  was  very  greatly  re- 
duced in  some  countries,  especially  in  Belgium  and 


MEASUREMENT  OF  FOOD  VALUES    245 

Germany.  What  effect  this  will  have  on  the  future 
health  of  the  nation  time  alone  will  show,  although 
figures  are  already  coming  in  which  indicate  a  great 
loss  of  power  to  resist  disease,  an  increase  in  tubercu- 
losis, and  a  greatly  increased  death-rate.  A  recent 
newspaper  report  from  Russia  indicated  that  it  is 
thought  the  great  increase  in  the  number  of  babies 
which  are  born  blind  is  due  to  the  under-nourished 
condition  of  the  mothers. 

If  the  diet  of  an  adult  contains  from  2  1/2  to  3  ounces 
of  protein  foods  in  a  day,  it  is  thought  that  sufficient 
nitrogen  will  be  provided  the  body  for  all  ordinary 
requirements.  Convalescents,  who  need  more  building 
material,  should  have  slightly  more,  and  care  should 
be  taken  that  growing  children  should  have,  not  more 
protein  foods  necessarily,  but  that  the  protein  should 
be  of  the  best  type,  such  as  is  found  in  milk  and  eggs. 
In  order  to  help  the  housekeeper  figure  out  how  much 
protein  the  family  are  getting,  a  table  of  half-ounce 
protein  portions  has  been  devised.1  This  must  not  be 
confused  with  the  one  hundred  calorie  portion,  since 
that  gives  total  fuel  value,  while  this  gives  the  amount 
of  food  which  would  contain  approximately  one  half 
ounce  of  protein.  These  are  as  follows: 

One  half  Ounce  Protein  Portions 

Milk,  whole  or  skimmed,  I  pint 

Eggs,  2 

Cottage  cheese,  1/4  cup,  or  2  ounces 

American  cheese,  1  1/4  inch  cube,  or  2  ounces 

Peanuts,  shelled,  2  ounces 

1  This  table  and  the  following  ones  are  taken  from  Food  and  the  War,  published 
by  the  United  States  Food  Administration,  1918. 


246    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Lean  meat,  without  bone,  21/4  ounces, 

or  a  piece  2  x  2  x  3/4  in. 
Fish,  a  similar  piece 
Beans,  dried,  cooked,  1  1/2  cups 
Cereal,  cooked,  2    1/3  to  3  cups 
Bread,  6  slices,  3  1/2x3x1/2  in. 

In  order  to  get  two  and  a  half  to  three  ounces  of 
protein  a  day,  five  or  six  of  these  portions  should  be 
included  in  the  course  of  the  day's  meals. 

Sulphur  and  phosphorus  are  both  essential  ingredi- 
ents of  all  body  protein,  and  occur  in  foods  wherever 
Other  sub-  nitrogen  is  found.  Phosphorus  is  also 
stances  needed  found  [n  other  foods,  so  that  if  the  protein 
content  of  our  food  is  sufficient,  these  will  be  also. 

The  body  must  also  have  certain  mineral  salts  in 
order  to  keep  it  in  good  condition.  The  iron  needed  by 
the  blood  and  entering  into  the  structure  of  all  active 
cells  is  found  in  egg-yolks,  green  vegetables,  especially 
spinach,  and  meats.  It  is  thought  that  15  milligrams 
of  iron  are  required  daily.  Social  workers  find  that 
among  the  poor  the  diet  is  apt  to  lack  iron  more  than 
any  other  constituent.  The  following  list  shows  por- 
tions of  food  each  of  which  contains  approximately 
two  milligrams  of  iron,  so  that  seven  and  a  half  of 
these  portions  should  be  used  daily: 

Portions  containing  Two  Milligrams  Iron 

White  flour,  200  grams,  enough  for  3/4  pound  bread 

Graham  flour,  40  grams,  or  2  medium  slices  of  bread 

Egg-yolk,  22  grams,  or  from  1  1/2  to  2  eggs 

Lean  meat,  50  grams,  about  2  ounces 

Spinach,  raw,  2  ounces,  cooked,  about  1/3  cup 

String  beans,  a  little  over  1/3  pound,  about  1  1/4  cups 


MEASUREMENT  OF  FOOD  VALUES    247 

Potato,  1  good-sized 

Sweet  potato,  almost  1  pound 

Oranges,  4  large 

Milk,  810  grams,  almost  1  quart 

Another  mineral  which  is  very  important  for  the 
growth  of  bones  and  teeth  is  calcium.  The  chief  source 
of  calcium  in  the  diet  is  milk  but  it  is  also  found  to 
some  extent  in  other  foods.  The  body's  daily  require- 
ment for  calcium  is  0.67  gram.  This  is  found  in  the 
following  foods: 

Portions  containing  Total  Calcium  Requirement  for  One  Day 

Milk,  less  than  I  1/4  pints 
Cheese,  21/2  ounces 
White  flour,  over  7  pounds 
Beef,  21  pounds 
Turnips,  21/3  pounds 
Carrots,  21/2  pounds 

The  other  chemical  elements  necessary  for  the 
proper  health  and  growth  of  the  body  are  found  in 
fruits  and  green  vegetables;  so  also  are  the  "vitamine" 
substances  essential  for  growth.  If  this  class  of  foods 
is  well  represented  in  the  diet,  together  with  a  variety 
of  other  foods,  all  these  substances  will  be  provided  in 
sufficient  amounts. 


CHAPTER  XVI 

THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS 

In  these  times  of  high  prices  the  all-absorbing  question 
is  how  to  reduce  the  H.C.L.,  or  the  high  cost  of  living. 
It  necessitates  a  careful  study  of  the  wise 
distribution  of  money  and  the  amount 
that  should  be  spent  for  food.  Since  an  adequate  quan- 
tity of  nourishing  food  is  absolutely  necessary  for  the 
maintenance  of  health  and  efficiency  of  the  family,  the 
proportion  of  the  income  to  be  devoted  to  food  is  far 
higher  to-day  than  it  was  some  years  ago  when  budgets 
were  first  made  out  on  a  percentage  basis.  In  an  article 
in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Medical  Association  for 
February  2,  191 8,  it  was  stated  that  "A  reasonably 
satisfactory  diet,  .  .  .  could  not,  at  prices  prevailing  a 
few  months  ago,  be  purchased  by  a  family  of  average 
size  for  less  than  ten  cents  a  thousand  calories  and  in 
most  instances  for  not  less  than  twelve  cents/ *  In  order 
then  for  a  man  to  obtain  the  3000  calories  he  needs,  he 
would  have  to  spend  at  the  very  least  thirty  cents  a 
day  and  he  would  be  doing  well  if  he  could  get  it  under 
thirty-five. 

The  following  recommendations  for  low-cost  diets 
are  made  by  one  organization: 

1.  Spend  from  one  fourth  to  one  third  of  food  money  for 
breads,  cereals,  macaroni,  and  rice. 

2.  Buy  at  least  from  one  third  to  one  half  quart  of  milk 
a  day  for  each  member  of  the  family. 

3.  Spend  as  much  for  vegetables  and  fruits  together  as 


THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS  249 

you  do  for  milk.  If  you  use  one  half  quart  of  milk  for 
each  member  of  the  family,  this  may  not  always  be 
possible,  then  spend  as  much  for  vegetables  and  fruits 
as  one  third  quart  of  milk  a  day  per  person  would 
cost. 
4.  Spend  not  more  for  meat  and  eggs  than  for  vegetables 
and  fruit.  The  amount  spent  for  meat  may  decrease  as 
the  amount  spent  for  milk  increases. 

In  counting  the  cost  of  food  as  served,  the  amount 
of  work  required  for  its  preparation  must  be  considered 
as  well  as  the  actual  cost  of  materials.  It  may  some- 
times be  well  for  a  busy  mother  to  put  more  money 
into  food  purchased  which  would  require  less  time  in 
preparation,  so  that  she  may  be  able  to  enjoy  the 
meal  with  her  family,  instead  of  being  so  over- fatigued 
by  the  cooking  that  she  is  neither  a  good  companion 
for  her  children  nor  in  fit  condition  to  eat  the  meal 
herself. 

The  ideal  division  of  three  dollars  spent  for  food 
might  be  as  follows: 

Meat  and  fish O.60 

Fats  and  sweets 50 

Fruit  and  vegetables 60 

Cereals 50--30 

Milk 60 

Eggs 15-.25 

Other  things 05-.25 

(These  figures  are  based  on  actual  figures  of  the  money  spent  by 
2000  families.) 

As  the  cost  of  the  dietary  is  decreased  meat  should 
never  be  used  more  than  once  a  day.  Eggs  can  only  be 
used  in  cooking  and  then  not  often.  Milk  must  be  used 
in  quantity  as  in  cream  soups,  sauces,  puddings,  etc 


250    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Pastry  and  other  rich  foods  must  be  left  out  and  plenty 
of  green  vegetables  and  fruit  put  in.  Oleomargarine 
must  be  used  instead  of  butter  and  skimmed  milk 
instead  of  whole. 

In  order  that  it  may  be  readily  seen  whether  all  the 
necessary  food  constituents  are  present  in  the  daily 
Five  food  diet,   food  substances  are  grouped  con- 

groups  veniently  into  five   classes   based   upon 

their  chemical  composition: 

1.  Mineral  salt  group:  Fruits  and  vegetables 

2.  Protein  group:  Meat,  milk,  eggs,  fish,  etc. 

3.  Starch  group:  Cereals  and  breadstuffs 

4.  Fat  group:  Butter,  oils,  and  other  fats 

5.  Sugar  group:  Sugar,  jellies,  jams,  dried  fruits,  etc. 

The  first  two  of  these  groups  provide  the  materials 
out  of  which  the  body  is  built;  the  other  three  are 
primarily  heat-  and  energy-producing  foods.  In  plan- 
ning the  meals  for  every  day  we  must  see  that  each 
group  is  well  represented  in  each  day's  diet,  although 
not  necessarily  in  each  meal.  We  must  also  make  sure 
that  the  quantity  of  food,  especially  from  the  energy- 
yielding  groups  (Nos.  3,  4,  and  5),  should  vary  with 
the  type  of  work  of  the  different  members  of  the  fam- 
ily. The  one  who  is  doing  the  heaviest  muscular  work 
should  have  the  largest  serving  of  the  macaroni  and 
cheese  while  the  one  who  is  sitting  indoors  all  day 
should  eat  lightly  of  this  dish  and  be  content  with  the 
vegetable.  Groups  1  and  3,  the  vegetables  and  the 
starchy  foods,  should  be  used  freely  as  a  basis  for  the 
diet,  while  the  other  groups  should  be  used  to  give 
variety  to  the  meal.  It  is  not  necessary  to  have  many 
dishes,  but  we  must  make  sure  that  the  ones  we  do  have 


THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS  251 

represent  different  groups  of  foods.  Do  not  serve  boiled 
rice  and  spaghetti  at  the  same  meal.  In  substituting 
one  food  for  another  be  sure  to  see  that  the  substitute 
food  belongs  to  the  same  group  as  the  one  to  be  sub- 
stituted. For  instance,  when  butter  is  very  high,  it 
should  properly  be  replaced  by  oleomargarine  or 
drippings  rather  than  by  jam  or  molasses.  In  the  same 
way  green  vegetables  can  be  replaced  in  the  winter 
time  by  root  vegetables  and  not  by  rice  nor  macaroni. 

The  man  who  requires  3000  calories  a  day  because  of 
his  moderate  work,  might  divide  it  up  as  follows: 

Richer  and  more        Plainer  and  Cheaper 
Expensive  Diet  Diet 

Vegetables  and  fruits from  2  1/2  lbs.  down  to  1  1/2  lbs. 

Milk 8  oz.  8  oz. 

Meat  and  eggs,  cheese,  etc from  14  oz.  down  to  6  oz. 

(Use  2  oz.  less  for  every  additional  1/2  pt.  of  milk) 

Cereals from  8  oz.  up  to  16  oz. 

Sweets from  3  oz.  down  to  1  1/2  oz. 

Fats from  3  oz.  down  to  1  1/2  oz. 

A  moderately  active  woman  should  use  four  fifths  of 
this  quantity. 

The  distribution  of  the  total  number  of  calories  into 
meals  for  each  day  should  be  done  so  as  to  promote 
digestibility  and  satisfaction.  Digestion  is  Division  of 
better  on  a  mixed  diet,  but  the  activity  of  food  into 
the  individual  should  be  taken  into  con-  meals 
sideration.  A  laboring  man  who  has  an  hour  for  his 
dinner  in  the  middle  of  the  day  can  handle  easily  a 
substantial  meal  with  its  cheese  or  pork  or  beans  be- 
cause he  has  time  to  rest  before  continuing  his  physi- 
cal exertions.  On  the  other  hand  a  professional  or 
business  man  usually  takes  as  short  a  time  as  possible 
for  his  lunch  and  hurries  back  immediately  to  his  desk. 


252     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

For  this  reason  his  lunch  should  be  light  and  should 
be  made  up  of  such  foods  as  can  be  digested  without 
effort.  Cereal  and  fruit  with  a  glass  of  milk  make  a 
very  good  lunch  for  a  busy  man,  while  pastry,  dough- 
nuts, and  other  forms  of  rich  food  should  always  be 
avoided. 

When  the  life  of  the  individual  is  known,  regularity 
of  meal  hours  should  be  carefully  maintained  and  the 
quantity  of  food  taken  at  each  meal  should  be  approxi- 
mately the  same,  day  after  day.  It  is  customary  to 
divide  the  total  amount  of  food  needed  in  the  twenty- 
four  hours  into  three  meals,  two  of  which  are  compara- 
tively light  and  the  third  heavy.  Whether  the  heavy 
meal  is  taken  in  the  middle  of  the  day  or  at  night,  it 
should  contain  about  half  of  the  total  number  of  calo- 
ries needed  for  the  day.  The  other  two  meals,  breakfast 
and  lunch  or  supper,  would  then  each  contain  about 
a  quarter  of  the  number.  For  instance,  if  2400  calories 
is  the  amount  required,  breakfast  would  have  600, 
luncheon  600,  and  dinner  1200.  For  many  people,  how- 
ever, it  is  more  satisfactory  to  have  their  food  more 
evenly  divided  in  the  meals.  In  this  case  each  meal 
would  contain  about  800  calories  or  a  third  of  the  total. 
Others  find  two  meals  a  day  very  satisfactory,  and  still 
others  find  it  necessary  to  take  their  food  in  smaller 
quantities  at  more  frequent  intervals.  Experience 
must  determine  which  is  best. 

Each  meal  should  be  a  unit  in  itself,  but  at  the  same 
time  the  meals  should  be  planned  for  several  days  at  a 
Variety  time,  so  as  to  avoid  repetition  and  uneven- 

essential  ness  0f  quantity.  It  might  be  possible  to 

obtain  from  oatmeal  and  macaroni  alone  a  good  part 
of  the  food  elements  necessary,  but  a  meal  consisting 


THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS  253 

of  these  two  foods  and  nothing  else  would  be  unsatis- 
factory. Variety  stimulates  the  appetite.  It  is  also  well 
to  consider  the  harmonious  blending  of  flavor,  color, 
texture,  and  temperature  of  foods.  It  is  more  satisfac- 
tory on  a  cold  day  to  begin  a  meal  with  a  hot  dish  such 
as  soup  instead  of  chilled  grapefruit.  So  also  we  would 
not  like  to  repeat  similar  flavors  in  the  same  meal.  If 
we  serve  a  tomato  bisque  soup,  a  tomato  sauce  with 
the  meat  course  or  a  tomato  salad  is  to  be  avoided. 
There  are  some  dishes  which  seem  to  go  together  natu- 
rally, such  as  peas  with  lamb  chops,  currant  jelly  with 
venison,  cheese  with  cold  apple  pie,  and  bacon  with 
liver.  Some  other  dishes,  which  we  find  in  constant  use, 
however,  are  not  such  wise  combinations  as  these.  In 
chicken  or  lobster  salad  we  have  so  much  fat  in  con- 
nection with  protein  material  that  the  salad  is  difficult 
to  digest.  The  same  is  true  with  bacon  and  eggs.  Grid- 
dle cakes  also  as  usually  eaten  with  a  large  amount  of 
butter  and  syrup  are  not  a  food  for  a  person  with  a 
delicate  digestion,  since  the  starch  is  so  rapidly  cooked 
that  it  is  not  cooked  thoroughly. 

Breakfast  varies  in  heartiness  with  the  habits  of  the 
family,  but  customarily  is  practically  the  same,  morn- 
ing after  morning,  in  the  same  family.  Where  there  are 
school-children,  it  is  important  to  see  „  ,M 
that  they  start  off  in  the  morning  with  a 
suitable  breakfast  eaten  without  haste  or  worry.  The 
simplest  breakfast  is  known  as  the  Continental  one, 
which  consists  merely  of  toast  or  hot  bread  and  a  hot 
drink,  tea  coffee,  or  cocoa.  To  this  fruit  is  frequently 
added,  making  a  very  satisfactory  breakfast  for  an 
adult  who  does  not  expect  to  have  a  busy  morning. 
For  busier  people,  however,  a  dish  of  cereal  should  be 


254     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

added  to  this  breakfast.  The  cereal  by  rights  should 
make  up  the  main  part  of  the  meal  for  adults  as  well 
as  for  children.  If  the  third  group,  the  starch  one,  is 
well  represented  and  is  eaten,  as  is  usually  the  case, 
with  milk  or  cream,  no  other  form  of  protein  food  is 
necessary  at  breakfast.  We  should  have  our  five  groups 
represented,  fruit  from  the  first,  milk  from  the  second, 
cereal  and  toast  or  breadstuffs  from  the  third,  butter 
on  the  toast  and  cream  on  the  cereal  from  the  fourth, 
and  the  fifth,  which  might  be  easily  omitted,  is  usu- 
ally present  in  the  sweetening  of  the  coffee  or  cocoa 
and  is  also  represented  in  the  fruit.  If  eggs  can  be  af- 
forded, they  are  a  pleasing  way  of  introducing  more 
building  material  for  growing  children,  but  are  not  ab- 
solutely necessary  if  a  glass  of  milk  is  drunk  and  a  big 
dish  of  cereal  is  eaten. 

Americans  are  very  apt  to  err  on  the  size  of  their 
breakfast.  There  are  many  men  like  the  one  who  in- 
sisted that  he  ate  a  light  breakfast,  and  when  asked 
what  it  usually  was,  said,  "Fruit  to  begin  with,  then  a 
dish  of  cereal  with  cream,  then  a  chop  or  two  or  a  piece 
of  steak  with  toast  or  hot  muffins  and  coffee,  and,  oh, 
yes,  usually  some  griddle  cakes  or  waffles  to  end  off 
with."  Such  a  man  would  certainly  need  to  walk  to  his 
office  before  starting  in  with  a  hard  day's  work,  but  the 
man  who  can  afford  such  a  breakfast  is  apt  to  ride  to 
town  in  his  limousine  and  then  wonders  why  he  has 
dyspepsia  or  bilious  attacks. 

The  other  light  meal  of  the  day,  whether  it  is 
luncheon  or  supper,  is  usually  the  meal  in  which  left- 
Luncheon  overs  are  used.  Here  again  group  three,  or 
and  supper  ^he  starchy  foods,  may  be  the  basis  if  there 
is  plenty  of  variety  in  the  other  meals.  There  are  many 


THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS  255 

forms  of  cereals  which  can  be  used  to  give  a  variety 
and  not  resemble  breakfast.  Boiled  rice,  served  either 
with  cream  and  sugar,  with  maple  syrup,  or  with 
maple  sugar,  makes  a  good  basis  for  such  a  meal.  So 
also  would  a  large  dish  of  creamed  macaroni  and 
spaghetti  with  or  without  cheese,  and  varied  some- 
times by  being  made  with  tomato  instead  of  milk. 
Fried  cornmeal  mush,  French  toast,  and  even  griddle 
cakes  or  waffles  might  be  used  occasionally  for  this 
meal  for  the  older  young  people  and  adults.  They 
would,  of  course,  not  be  given  to  children.  Other  dishes 
which  may  well  find  a  place  at  this  meal  are  creamed 
soups,  hearty  salads,  cheese  dishes,  nut  loaves,  or  stuffed 
eggs  when  used  with  fresh  greens  or  fruit  and  plenty 
of  breadstuffs.  If  milk  is  introduced  in  some  form  or 
other  at  this  meal  either  as  soup  or  in  the  scalloped 
dish  or  in  the  pudding,  we  should  be  quite  satisfied  that 
the  boys  and  girls  coming  from  school  were  getting  a 
suitable  lunch. 

The  hearty  meal  of  the  day,  whether  at  noon  or  at 
night,  is  usually  made  up  of  all  five  groups.  The  prob- 
lem is  more  difficult  to  handle  in  those 
families  where  the  school-children  should 
have  their  hearty  meal  in  the  middle  of  the  day  and 
the  busy  father  of  the  family  should  have  his  at  night. 
It  really  amounts  to  serving  two  dinners  a  day,  al- 
though by  a  judicious  use  of  cold  meat,  together  with 
plenty  of  hot  dishes  for  the  children  at  noon,  and  by 
putting  salads  instead  of  a  heavy  dessert  with  the 
roast  at  night,  it  can  be  worked  out  satisfactorily  for 
both.  It  is  not  necessary  to  have  many  dishes,  as  all 
the  groups  may  be  represented  in  four  dishes  or  even 
less.  This  is  the  meal  at  which  it  is  customary  to  serve 


256     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

meat,  but  other  protein  foods,  fish,  cheese,  or  the  pulses, 
might  easily  be  used  to  take  its  place  occasionally.  The 
starch  group  is  present  in  the  form  of  potato,  macaroni, 
rice,  and  breadstuffs.  One  green  vegetable  is  usually 
served  but  it  would  be  well  to  add  another  or  a  simple 
salad.  If  fruit  is  used  for  dessert  as  well,  the  mineral 
salt  group  would  be  well  represented.  The  other  two 
groups  are  found  in  the  oil  on  the  salad,  in  the  gravy 
with  the  meat,  and  in  the  pudding  or  other  sweet  dish 
that  is  used  for  dessert.  There  is  usually  enough  fat 
served  in  one  form  or  another  at  dinner  so  that  it  is 
not  necessary  to  have  butter  on  the  table  at  this 
meal. 

There  are  many  combinations  which  can  be  used  as 
the  hearty  dish  for  dinner  in  which  two  or  more  groups 
may  be  represented.  Such  a  dish  would  be  a  fish  or 
clam  chowder,  where  starches,  protein  foods,  and  some 
fat  are  all  combined.  This  should  then  be  served  with 
food  from  the  mineral  salt  group,  such  as  salads  or 
fruit,  and  some  sweet.  Another  such  dish  would  be  an 
Irish  stew  where  potatoes  and  vegetables  are  com- 
bined with  the  meat.  So  also  there  are  many  varia- 
tions that  can  be  made  in  a  casserole  or  baking-dish 
where  a  starch  (rice,  macaroni  or  cornmeal)  is  com- 
bined with  vegetables,  usually  tomato,  but  almost  any 
vegetable  might  answer  the  purpose,  together  with  a 
little  fish  or  meat  or  cheese.  If  the  flavor  is  enjoyed,  a 
slice  or  two  of  bacon  can  be  laid  on  the  top,  which  will 
crisp  up  in  the  oven  and  add  fat  to  the  dish.  Such  a 
dish  may  easily  be  prepared  in  the  morning  and  slipped 
into  the  oven  a  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour  before 
dinner-time,  thus  greatly  relieving  the  task  of  prepar- 
ing dinner  and  permitting  the  home-maker  to  be  out 


THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS  257 

of  the  house  all  the  afternoon.  It  also  does  away  with 
the  necessity  of  having  many  disagreeable  cooking 
dishes  to  wash  and  makes  the  dinner  a  very  simple  one 
to  serve.  In  these  days  of  the  high  cost  of  labor,  it  is 
well  to  become  accustomed  to  using  all  such  means  of 
saving  time  and  energy. 

Since  breakfast  is  so  much  a  matter  of  routine  and 
since  luncheon  can  be  so  readily  made  up  from  left- 
overs or  along  lines  already  discussed,  we  will  simply 
add  a  few  combinations  which  would  be  suitable  for 
the  hearty  meal  of  the  day.  Some  of  these  are  typical 
of  meals  that  are  in  constant  use. 


Spaghetti,  macaroni,  or  rice  cooked  with  tomato,  onion, 

green  pepper,  and  cheese 

Bread  and  butter 

Fruit  and  gingerbread 


Cow  peas  boiled  with  pork  Boiled  rice 

Green  vegetable  or  vegetable  salad 
Honey,  maple  sugar,  or  date  sandwiches 

3 

Baked  beans  and  brown  bread 

Tomato  jelly  salad 
Tart  apple  sauce  and  cookies 

4 

Fish  chowder 

Sliced  tomatoes 

Apple  pie 

Cheese 


258     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

5 

Fowl  en  casserole 

Baked  potato  Spinach 

Chocolate  cornstarch  pudding 

Cookies 

6 

Pot  roast 

Potatoes  Boiled  onions 

Prunes  and  hermits 

7 

Corn,  tomato,  and  cheese  on  toast 

Potato  salad  with  boiled  dressing 

Jam  or  stewed  fruit 

8 
Baked  fish 
Boiled  rice  Scalloped  corn 

Apple  tapioca 

9 

Salt  codfish  hash 

Vegetable  Nut  bread 

Banana  salad 

io 

Meat  balls 

Scalloped  rice  Fried  onions 

Lemon  jelly 

II 

Cream  of  celery  soup 

Chicken  en  casserole 

Tomato  salad  Graham  muffins 

Ice  cream 

Coffee  Cake 


THE  MAKING  OF  MENUS  259 

12 

Vegetable  soup 

Scalloped  shrimps 

Baked  stuffed  potato  Spinach 

Rye  muffins 

Fruit  cup  Coffee 

13 

Chicken  broth 

Green  pepper  with  cow  peas 

Tomato  sauce 

Baked  potato 

Waldorf  salad  Raised  rye  muffins 

Cantaloupe 

Coffee 

14 

Tomato  bisque 

Lentil  timbale  Cauliflower  au  gratin 

Lettuce  salad  Corn  muffins 

Baked  apple 

Coffee 


CHAPTER  XVII 

FOOD  FOR  INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN 

M  other/ s  milk  is  always  to  be  preferred  for  infants 
whenever  it  is  possible.  Children  who  have  this  start  in 
Mother's  life  have  a  far  better  chance  for  health  and 

milk  best  normal  growth  than  those  that  are  arti- 

ficially fed.  Statistics  gathered  by  social  workers  and 
hospitals  show  that  the  death-rate  among  children 
under  a  year  old  is  lower  for  breast-fed  babies  than  for 
bottle-fed.  Seven  die  in  every  one  hundred  the  first 
year  of  breast-fed  babies  while  there  is  an  average  of 
thirty  in  every  one  hundred  of  the  bottle-fed.  If  our 
young  girls  of  all  classes  could  be  taught  how  important 
for  the  health  of  their  children  is  the  ability  to  feed 
them  properly,  they  would  take  more  pains  in  the 
right  training  and  condition  of  their  own  bodies  so  that 
they  might  be  able  in  later  years  to  perform  this 
function. 

There  are  certain  conditions  which  tend  towards 
successful  nursing  and  others  which  must  be  carefully 
Conditions  avoided.  A  nursing  mother  should  always 
affecting  avoid  over-fatigue,  worry,  and  undue  ex- 

breast  feeding  citement.    she  should  also  be  careful  to 

eat  only  such  food  as  is  readily  digestible;  she  should 
have  plenty  of  fresh  air,  regular  exercise,  meals  of 
wholesome,  nourishing  food  at  regular  hours,  and 
plenty  of  water  to  drink  between  meals.  Tea  and  coffee 
are  not  wise  foods  at  any  time  and  if  a  nursing  mother 
wants  to  have  a  quiet,  unexcitable  baby,  she  ought 


INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN    261 

never  to  take  them  during  the  period  she  is  nursing  the 
baby.  She  would  of  course  not  drink  any  alcoholic  bev- 
erages and  would  be  a  little  careful  about  the  acidity 
of  the  food  that  she  eats.  (On  the  whole,  however,  food 
that  does  not  disagree  with  her  she  can  be  quite  sure 
will  not  be  likely  to  upset  the  baby.)  She  should  be 
very  careful  not  to  do  too  hard  work  but  it  is  well  if 
she  can  have  a  pleasurable  occupation  and  some  diver- 
sion of  a  simple  kind,  avoiding  excitement.  She  also 
needs  plenty  of  sleep.  If  her  nights  are  disturbed 
by  the  baby,  she  should  plan  to  take  a  nap  during  the 
day-time  when  the  baby  is  asleep.  It  is  also  important 
that  she  should  have  a  regular  schedule  of  hours  for 
feeding  the  baby  and  should  keep  strictly  to  these 
hours  whether  the  baby  cries  between  times  or  not. 
This  is  necessary  not  only  for  the  health  of  the  baby 
but  also  for  her  own  supply  of  milk,  since  the  milk 
glands,  like  all  other  glands  in  the  body,  perform  their 
function  better  on  a  regular  demand. 

If  a  mother  is  so  unfortunate  that  she  cannot  have 
the  privilege  of  nursing  her  own  baby,  she  must  use 
some  substitute  for  her  milk.  Since  there  Modifying 
is  no  food  that  is  exactly  like  mother's  cow's  milk 
milk,  the  only  thing  that  can  be  done  is  to  take  the 
food  the  nearest  like  it  that  we  have,  cow's  milk,  and 
modify  it  by  various  ways  in  order  to  make  it  as  much 
like  mother's  milk  as  possible.  This  modification  is 
based  on  the  chemical  analysis  of  the  two  milks.  Be- 
cause mother's  milk  contains  more  fat  and  more  sugar 
than  cow's  milk,  it  is  customary  usually  to  take  the 
top  of  the  bottle  of  milk  after  it  has  stood  some  hours, 
dilute  this  with  boiled  water  to  the  required  strength, 
and  then  add  milk  sugar  and  limewater.  Milk  to  be 


262    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

modified  in  this  way  should  of  course  be  the  best  pos- 
sible obtainable.  The  whole  process  must  be  done  under 
clean  conditions  with  utensils  that  are  not  used  for 
any  other  purpose.  These  utensils  should  be  carefully 
washed,  scalded,  and  dried  with  a  clean  towel  every 
day  after  the  baby's  bottles  are  fixed.  The  exact  for- 
mula to  be  used  for  the  baby  varies  with  the  age  of  the 
child,  and  with  the  wishes  of  the  doctor.  Mother's  milk 
is  adjusted  by  nature  to  suit  the  varying  demands  of 
the  growing  infant,  while  modified  milk  must  be  con- 
tinually increased  in  strength  as  the  child  grows.  Dif- 
ferent children's  specialists  use  different  formulae  for 
modifying  milk  and  these  can  be  found  in  such  books 
as  Dr.  Holt's  Care  of  the  Baby,  Dr.  Kerley's  Short  Talks 
with  Young  Mothers ,  and  Dr.  Richard  Smith's  The 
Baby's  First  Two  Years.  If  artificial  feeding  must  be 
resorted  to,  it  is  well  to  avoid  all  proprietary  foods, 
since  they  usually  contain  starch  which  is  not  easily 
digested  by  the  young  infant. 

After  the  child  is  six  months  old,  orange  juice  may 
usually  be  given  to  the  infant  from  a  spoon  a  half  hour 
Other  foods  before  the  morning  feeding.  Barley  water 
for  infants  may  ke  substituted  for  the  boiled  water 
in  the  bottles  at  the  same  period.  The  infant,  at  a  very 
early  stage,  should  be  taught  to  take  plain  boiled 
water  between  feedings  from  a  bottle  even  if  he  is 
breast-fed.  If  he  is  accustomed  to  doing  this,  there 
will  be  very  little  difficulty  when  it  becomes  necessary 
to  wean  him.  For  this  reason  also  it  may  sometimes  be 
well  to  introduce  at  least  one  bottle  of  milk  a  day  along 
about  the  fourth  or  fifth  month  in  order  to  supplement 
the  mother's  milk  and  to  get  the  child  accustomed  to 
taking  milk  from  a  bottle.  The  mother  who  can  nurse 


INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN    263 

her  baby  unaided  for  eight  months  is  doing  very  well 
indeed.  Even  if  she  can  only  do  it  four  or  five  months, 
she  has  given  the  child  a  good  start  in  life. 

It  is  customary  with  doctors  to-day  to  put  the  babies 
very  early  on  a  schedule  of  feeding  of  three-hour  inter- 
vals. These  may  be  arranged  conveniently  Regular 
at  the  following  hours:  six,  nine,  twelve,  feeding  hours 
three,  and  six.  During  the  early  months  the  child  is 
also  given  another  feeding  about  ten  and  then  should 
go  until  six  in  the  morning  without  any  more.  A  child 
that  is  established  on  a  definite  schedule  closely  ad- 
hered to  by  the  mother,  soon  becomes  accustomed  to 
it  and  is  very  easy  to  take  care  of.  As  the  child  becomes 
older  these  intervals  will  be  found  to  be  too  close ;  the 
child  will  not  be  hungry  enough  to  take  all  the  food  it 
should  at  each  feeding.  When  this  point  is  reached, 
which  will  vary  with  different  children,  somewhere 
about  the  ninth  month,  the  schedule  should  be  changed 
to  a  four- hour  one.  The  feeding  hours  will  then  be  six, 
ten,  two,  six,  and  ten.  If  a  child  is  gaining  steadily  and 
sleeping  well,  the  ten  o'clock  feeding  at  night  may 
safely  be  omitted.  These  changes,  however,  should  only 
be  carried  out  under  the  advice  of  the  physician  in 
charge. 

It  must  be  kept  in  mind  that  the  digestive  powers 
of  the  infant  develop  very  gradually,  so  we  must  in- 
crease the  kind  and  the  quantity  of  the  Cereal  gruels 
food  slowly  to  meet  this  development.  added 
New  foods  should  be  introduced  into  the  diet,  one  at 
a  time,  and  in  small  quantities  to  begin  with.  Up  to  the 
time  a  child  is  five  years  old  milk  remains  the  staple 
of  the  diet.  He  should  have  from  three  cups  to  a  quart 
daily,  care  being  always  taken  to  have  it  clean  and 


264    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

fresh.  Cereal  is  the  next  food  to  be  added  to  the  child's 
diet.  This  is  used  in  the  form  of  gruel  for  some  months 
mixed  with  the  milk,  then  it  can  be  used  in  the  form  of 
a  cereal  jelly  where  the  very  thoroughly  cooked  mush 
is  strained  to  remove  the  husks.  This  is  served  with 
milk.  Later,  as  the  child  grows  older,  he  can  be  given 
the  mush  unstrained.  For  this  purpose  oatmeal  can  be 
varied  with  cream  of  wheat,  wheatena,  pettijohn's, 
rice,  or  shredded  wheat.  The  last  is  best  used  by  pour- 
ing boiling  water  on  it  first  to  soften  it  before  adding 
the  milk. 

Milk  and  cereal  should  be  the  basis  of  a  child's  diet 
until  he  is  two  years  old,  although  other  foods  can  be 
Other  additions  added  to  give  variety.  An  egg  may  be  used 
to  the  diet  occasionally,  though  never  more  than  one 
a  day,  either  in  cooking,  as  in  the  form  of  custard,  or 
boiled.  To  the  orange  juice  already  in  use,  other  fruit 
juices  may  be  added  and  even  the  strained  pulp  of 
prunes  or  apples.  The  fruit  should  be  mostly  cooked, 
although  the  raw  fruit  of  the  fleshy  kinds,  such  as 
peaches  and  pears,  occasionally  will  not  harm  if  they 
are  thoroughly  ripe.  No  bananas  should  be  given  raw 
to  a  child,  although  they  may  be  used  steamed  or 
baked.  A  green  vegetable  should  be  given  in  the  mid- 
dle of  every  day.  It  should  be  strained  at  first  but  can 
later  be  given  cut  up  fine.  The  vegetables  that  are  the 
best  to  begin  with  are  the  mild  ones,  such  as  spinach, 
peas,  green  beans,  asparagus  tips,  etc.  A  child  should 
be  encouraged  to  eat  hard  breadstuffs,  such  as  the 
crust  of  the  bread  and  zwieback,  for  the  good  of  his 
teeth.  He  should  never  be  allowed  to  have  fresh  bread 
or  hot  biscuits.  Between  the  ages  of  three  and  five  a 
child  may  be  given  a  little  meat,  but  never  more  than 


INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN    265 

once  a  day,  and  never  any  pork  products  except  ba- 
con. It  is  well  to  vary  the  meat  by  using  in  its  place 
the  white  fish  such  as  cod  and  haddock.  If  children 
are  allowed  to  eat  a  good  deal  of  meat  they  will  not 
eat  the  amount  of  cereal  and  milk  which  they  ought 
to,  because  the  meat  has  so  much  more  flavor  and 
is  better  liked.  Never  give  fried  food  of  any  kind  to 
the  child,  especially  fried  potatoes. 

There  is  no  harm  in  keeping  the  child  on  a  fairly 
uniform  diet.  For  this  reason  it  is  better  that  he  should 
have  his  meals  away  from  the  family  Good  habits 
where  there  will  be  no  temptation  to  give  formed  early 
him  tastes  of  the  food  which  the  family  is  having.  If  he 
does  not  know  what  more  elaborate  food  tastes  like, 
he  will  have  no  desire  for  it.  It  is  very  essential  that  he 
should  have  his  meals  at  regular  intervals  and  that  he 
should  be  taught  from  the  very  beginning  to  eat 
everything  that  is  placed  before  him.  A  child  develops 
whims  and  fancies  very  quickly  and  if  these  are  al- 
lowed to  grow  he  will  become  a  nuisance  to  himself 
and  to  others.  It  should  always  be  taken  as  a  matter 
of  course  that  what  he  is  given  to  eat  must  be  eaten 
without  any  question  on  his  part.  If  the  mother  knows 
that  a  certain  food  is  distasteful  to  the  child,  she  should 
only  give  him  a  very  small  amount  of  that  food  at  a 
time,  say  only  a  teaspoonful,  but  all  that  she  gives 
him  should  be  eaten  before  he  is  allowed  to  have  his 
dessert.  It  is  only  by  establishing  such  habits  early 
that  there  will  be  any  comfort  to  be  had  in  later  years. 

Good  table  manners  should  also  be  established  in 
early  years.  A  child  learns  more  through  imitation 
than  through  precept,  although  the  mother  has  to  keep 
constant  watch  over  the  size  of  the  mouthfuls  taken 


266    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  the  way  the  food  is  chewed.  If  a  child  does  not 
chew  his  food  thoroughly  it  will  not  be  properly  di- 
gested and  he  cannot  get  full  value  from  it. 

A  child  at  this  period  of  from  two  to  five  should  be 
having  his  food  in  three  regular  meals  a  day  with  a 
Food  for  child  nSnt  lunch  in  the  middle  of  the  morning. 
2  to  5  years  The  time  for  these  may  vary  with  the 
habits  of  the  household  but  if  it  is  possible, 
it  is  well  that  breakfast  should  be  from  half-past  seven 
to  eight,  dinner  at  half-past  twelve  or  one,  and  supper 
from  five  to  half -past.  His  breakfast  should  consist  of 
the  juice  of  an  orange  or  some  other  fruit,  a  good-sized 
dish  of  cooked  cereal  with  top  milk  on  it,  a  soft-boiled 
egg,  a  slice  of  buttered  toast  and  a  glass  of  milk.  He 
should  have  another  glass  of  milk  and  a  piece  of  bread 
and  butter  between  half -past  ten  and  eleven.  For 
dinner  he  could  have  a  broth  made  from  mutton  or 
beef  in  which  rice  or  barley  has  been  cooked,  or  he 
could  have  a  small  piece  of  rare  beefsteak,  the  heart 
of  a  chop,  or  a  little  white  fish.  With  this  he  could  have 
a  baked  potato  or  boiled  rice  or  macaroni  and  a  vege- 
table, and  for  dessert  he  could  have  the  inside  of  a 
baked  apple,  apple  sauce,  or  a  pudding,  such  as  baked 
custard,  a  simple  rice  pudding,  bread  pudding,  or  a 
thoroughly  cooked,  plain  cornstarch  pudding.  He  could 
also  have  fruit  jelly  served  with  cream  or  a  simple  ice 
cream.  For  supper  he  should  again  have  a  dish  of 
cereal  and  milk  as  a  basis.  With  this  he  could  have 
stewed  prunes  or  apple  sauce  or  baked  apples  if  he  has 
not  had  them  at  noon.  He  could  also  have  a  cup  of 
weak  cocoa,  a  slice  of  bread  and  butter,  a  plain  cooky, 
or  a  piece  of  simple  cake.  He  should  never  have  fried 
foods  nor  rich  foods  of  any  sort. 


INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN    267 

If  it  is  desirable  for  the  child  to  have  a  piece  of  candy 
as  a  reward  of  merit,  which  frequently  is  a  far  better 
scheme  than  punishment,  this  may  best  be  given  im- 
mediately after  breakfast  or  dinner.  It  should  never 
be  given  between  meals.  No  food  of  any  kind,  in  fact, 
should  be  allowed  except  at  the  regular  meal  hours. 
If  a  child  has  plenty  of  the  right  kind  of  food  at  regular 
intervals  he  does  not  want  anything  else  to  eat.  If, 
however,  he  is  really  hungry,  he  may  safely  be  given  a 
plain  piece  of  bread.  It  is  not  often  that  he  is  hungry 
enough  for  this.  What  he  wants  is  a  cooky  or  the  jam 
on  his  bread  which  would  spoil  his  appetite  for  his 
regular  meals. 

DIET  FOR  CHILD 
At  12  months 
4  meals  —  at  6,  10,  2,  6,  or  similar  convenient  hours. 

(1)  1  or  2  ounces  of  juice  of  sweet  orange,  or  pulp  of  6 
stewed  prunes. 

8  ounces  of  milk. 

3  or  4  ounces  of  well-cooked  and  strained  cereal  (fa- 
rina, cream  of  wheat,  oatmeal,  barley,  rice,  or  arrow- 
root). Salt  to  taste.  Sugar  is  not  necessary. 

(2)  8  ounces  of  milk,  with  zwieback,  plain  crackers,  stale 
bread,  or  toast. 

(3)  4  ounces  of  broth;  beef,  mutton,  or  chicken  with  1  or  2 
tablespoons  of  well-cooked  rice  or  barley,  or  2  ounces 
of  beef  juice. 

8  ounces  of  milk. 

Apple  sauce,  pulp  of  baked  apple,  or  prune  juice,  if 

necessary  for  bowels. 

(4)  3  or  4  ounces  of  cereal,  as  at  breakfast. 
8  or  10  ounces  of  milk. 

13  months  —  add  macaroni  and  spaghetti,  alternating  with 
rice  at  the  2  p.m.  meal. 


268     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

15  to  16  months  —  add  soft-boiled  eggs  (2  or  3  a  week).  Best 
given  at  2  p.m.  in  place  of  the  broth  or  beef  juice. 
Add  thoroughly  baked  potato,  alternating  with  rice, 
macaroni,  or  spaghetti  at  2  p.m.  Add  small  amount  of 
butter  on  bread  or  potato. 
Stop  straining  the  cereals. 

2  tablespoons=  1  ounce. 
1  glass=8  ounces. 

At  18  months 

Breakfast  —  Juice  of  1  sweet  orange,  or 
Pulp  of  6  stewed  prunes. 

Cereal  (cream  of  wheat,  oatmeal,  farina,  barley,  arrow- 
root, rice,  etc.) 
Milk,  I  glass. 
Stale  bread  or  toast,  and  butter. 

Lunch  —  Milk,  1  glass. 

Stale  bread,  or  toast,  or  plain  crackers. 

Dinner  —  Broth,  or  minced  or  scraped  meat,  or  soft-boiled 

egg- 

Boiled  rice,  or  spaghetti,  or  macaroni,  or  baked  potato. 

Stewed  celery,  or  stewed  lettuce.  Well-cooked  and  strained 

spinach,  or  carrots,  fresh  peas,  and  string  beans. 
Stale  bread,  or  toast,  or  plain  crackers  and  butter. 
Milk,  I  glass. 
Cooked  apple,  or  stewed  prunes,  without  the  skins,  if 

needed  for  constipation,  or 
Simple    pudding  —  i.e.,    rice,    bread,    tapioca,    custard, 

junket,  and  blanc  mange. 

Supper  —  Cereal  (as  at  breakfast),  or  bread  and  milk. 
Glass  of  milk. 

Stale  bread,  or  toast,  and  butter. 
Cooked  fruit,  unless  given  at  dinner. 


INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN    269 

SAMPLE  MENU  FOR  CHILD  TWO  TO  FOUR  YEARS  OLD 

7  A.M.  4  tablespoons  orange  juice,  or 

juice  and  pulp  4  prunes 
4  tablespoons  oatmeal 
2  slices  bread 
1  teaspoon  butter 
10  ounces  milk 
10  A.M.  8  ounces  milk 

I  cracker 
1  p.m.  1  egg  or  small  portion  boiled  cod  or  haddock 

1  medium  baked  potato 
I  1/2  tablespoons  spinach 

1  slice  bread 

1/2  teaspoonful  butter 

2  tablespoons  junket 
5.30  P.M.          4  tablespoons  boiled  rice 

2  slices  bread 

1  teaspoon  butter 

2  tablespoons  apple  sauce 

LIST  OF  FOODS  ALLOWED  A  CHILD  TWO  TO  FOUR 
YEARS  OLD 

Milk :  This  is  the  principal  article  of  diet. 

Fruits : 

Baked  apples  Oranges 

Apple  sauce  Stewed  pears 

Stewed  prunes  Baked  pears 

Stewed  peaches 

Cereals : 

Oatmeal  Wheat  germ 

Petti  John  Samp 

Cream  of  wheat  Germea 

Wheatena  Malt  Breakfast  Food 

Quaker  Oats  Farina 


270    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 


Hominy 


Macaroni 
Spaghetti 

Spinach 
Beet  greens 
Green  peas 
Beets 
Swiss  chard 


Ralston 
Cracked  wheat 

White  vegetables: 
Potato,  baked 
Rice 

Green  vegetables: 
String  beans 
Asparagus 
Lettuce 
Celery,  stewed 
Carrots 

Bread: 

Stale  bread  (white,  whole  wheat,  graham,  oatmeal, 

rye,  or  corn)  with  butter 
Crackers 

Desserts : 

Junket  Cooked  fruit        Simple  jelly 

Custard  Sago  Cornstarch  pudding 

Tapioca  cream  Rice  pudding       Bread  pudding 
Apple  tapioca  without  raisins 

Prune  whip        Ice  cream 

Protein  Foods: 


Eggs,  soft-boiled  or 

coddled 
Fresh  fish  (boiled) 
Roast  chicken 
Boiled  chicken 

Soups : 

Beef 

Creamed  vegetable 

Mutton 
Fats: 

Butter 

Oleomargarine 


Mutton 

Steak 

Lamb  (roast  or  chopped) 

Roast  beef 


Vegetable 
Chicken 


Olive  oil 


INFANTS  AND  YOUNG  CHILDREN    271 

RECIPES  FOR  INFANT  FOODS 

Albumen  Water 

For  each  4  ounces  of  water  at  1040  F.,  add  the  white  of 
one  egg.  Stir  with  a  knife  until  dissolved.  Do  not  beat  or 
shake.  Strain  through  cheesecloth. 

Barley  Water 

Take  2  level  teaspoons  of  Robinson's  or  Brook's  barley 
flour,  or  any  other  standard  brand,  and  mix  with  enough 
water  to  make  a  paste.  Add  water  up  to  one  pint.  Boil  20 
minutes  in  a  double  boiler.  Strain  through  two  thicknesses 
of  cheesecloth.  Add  boiled  water  up  to  one  pint  to  make 
up  what  has  boiled  away. 

Beef  Juice 

Partially  broil  on  both  sides  1/2  pound  of  the  top  of  the 
round.  Cut  in  small  pieces  and  squeeze  out  the  juice,  using 
a  meat-press  or  a  wooden  lemon-squeezer.  Add  a  pinch  of 
salt.  1/2  pound  of  beef  makes  2  ounces  of  beef  juice. 

Beef,  Scraped 

Scrape  a  piece  of  round  steak  with  a  knife  and  then  broil 
very  slightly.  The  meat  is  practically  free  from  the  con- 
necting fiber  and  is  better  than  when  minced. 

Broth 

Put  1  pound  of  the  meat  in  1  pint  of  cold  water.  Add  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Let  stand  1 1 2  hour.  Cook  slowly  for  3  or  4 
hours.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Strain  through  2  thicknesses  of 
cheesecloth.  Cool.  Remove  and  discard  all  the  fat. 

Coddled  Egg 

Put  the  egg  into  boiling  water  and  remove  immediately 
from  the  fire,  or  set  it  back  on  the  stove.  Cover  and  let  it 
stand  for  six  or  seven  minutes.  The  white  of  the  egg  should 
be  soft  and  not  liquid. 


272     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

Gruel 

This  may  be  either  barley  or  oatmeal.  Use  either  Robin- 
son's or  Brook's  barley  or  Robinson's  oatmeal  (groats), 
or  any  other  standard  brand.  Take  3  tablespoons  of  the 
flour,  and  mix  with  a  little  cold  water  to  make  a  paste, 
then  add  water  to  make  one  pint.  Cook  for  20  minutes  in 
a  double  boiler.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Strain  through  two 
thicknesses  of  cheesecloth.  If  the  gruel  is  too  thin,  cook  a 
little  longer;  it  should  be  thick  enough  to  jelly  when  cold. 

Junket 

To  1  quart  of  milk,  whole,  heated  to  1050  F.,  add  4  tea- 
spoons of  liquid  rennet.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  teaspoon 
of  granulated  sugar.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  the  curd 
forms.  Strain  off  the  liquid  portion  or  whey.  The  curd  is 
junket. 

It  is  also  made  by  adding  one  junket  tablet,  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  milk,  to  the  warm  milk,  and  allowing  it  to  stand. 

Limewater 
Put  1  teaspoon  of  unslaked  lime  in  a  bottle  containing 
1  quart  of  boiled  water,  shake  thoroughly,  and  allow  it  to 
stand  for  24  hours.    The  clear  fluid  at  the  top  is  limewater. 

Prune  Juice 
Take  1/2  pound  of  prunes,  wash,  and  soak  in  water  over- 
night. Cover  with  water  and  add  1/2  teaspoon  of  sugar  (no 
lemon).  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  prunes  are  perfectly 
tender.  Strain  through  a  cheesecloth  to  remove  the  pulp. 

Whey 
To  1  quart  of  skimmed  milk  heated  to  1050  F.,  add  4  tea- 
spoons of  liquid  rennet.  Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  until  the 
curd  forms.  Break  up  the  curd  with  a  fork  and  strain  through 
4  layers  of  cheesecloth  or  muslin.  Heat  the  whey  (the  liquid 
part)  to  1 550  F.  and  allow  it  to  cool  gradually.  Keep  on  ice. 
One  quart  of  milk  makes  24  ounces  of  whey. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 
FOOD  FOR  SCHOOL-CHILDREN 

This  period  in  the  life  of  an  individual  from  the  time  he 
starts  to  school  at  five  or  six  until  he  graduates  from 
college  at  twenty-one  or  twenty-two  is  G    ,       . 
one  in  which  there  is  great  activity  both  0f  food  nec- 
of  the  body  and  of  the  mind.  It  is  the  ess*f* for 
period  of  growth  in  which  the  body  goes 
through  great  changes  not  only  in  building  up  the 
bodily  tissue  itself  but  in  the  development  which 
eventually  produces  the  adult  man  or  women.  During 
this  period  the  youth  is  more  dependent  on  a  regular 
supply  of  food  every  day  than  is  the  adult.  His  activity 
is  so  great  that  the  supply  of  fuel  must  be  constant 
and  steady.  At  the  same  time  he  must  have  a  larger 
proportion  of  those  foods  which  contain  the  best 
building  material  for  body  structure.  This  is  particu- 
larly important  in  the  type  of  protein  material,  since 
those  proteins  that  are  found  in  milk,  eggs,  and  meat 
are  of  greater  value  than  those  that  are  found  in  the 
cereals  and  pulses. 

There  are  certain  signs  betokening  good  health 
which  means  a  suitable  diet.  The  first  of  these  is  a 
steady  gain  in  weight  and  height.  A  move-  signs  of  good 
ment  is  now  on  foot  by  the  Federal  Bureau  health 
of  Education  for  the  weighing  of  all  school-children  at 
least  twice  during  each  year  so  as  to  keep  track  of  the 
gain  in  weight.  Where  this  has  already  been  done,  it 
has  been  found  that  a  surprisingly  large  number  of 


274    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

our  school-children  are  below  weight  according  to  the 
standards  set  by  the  experts.  Another  sign  of  good 
health  is  sound  sleep  and  plenty  of  it.  This  must  always 
be  taken  in  close  connection  with  proper  diet  in  order 
to  insure  gain  in  weight.  A  child  should  also  have  a 
reasonable  appetite,  not  too  large  nor  too  small.  The 
lad  who  could  and  did  eat  eleven  shredded  wheat  bis- 
cuits for  breakfast  could  hardly  be  said  to  have  a 
reasonable  appetite.  A  child  who  is  well  and  strong 
will  have  a  firm  flesh  and  rosy  skin,  and  will  be  gener- 
ally good-natured. 

The  food  should  increase  gradually  in  quantity  as 
the  years  go  on  and  the  body  requirements  become 
The  right  greater  and  greater.  The  bulk  of  the  diet 

food  should    still    consist    largely   of    cereals, 

vegetables,  and  fruit.  These  may  be  varied  from  day 
to  day  but  it  is  very  important  that  no  school-child 
should  be  allowed  to  start  off  to  school  in  the  morning 
without  having  eaten  a  substantial  dish  of  cereal,  pref- 
erably of  a  cooked  variety.  Meat  should  be  had  in 
moderate  amount,  seldom  more  than  once  a  day,  and 
other  foods  such  as  fish  and  cheese  may  be  substituted 
for  it.  Milk  should  still  be  used;  at  least  a  pint  a  day 
for  the  older  children  and  three  cups  for  the  younger 
ones.  No  tea,  coffee,  nor  strong  cocoa  should  be  al- 
lowed, especially  during  the  high-school  period  when 
girls  in  particular  seem  to  have  a  craving  for  these. 
It  is  to  be  remembered  that  these  drinks  are  stimu- 
lants and  will  have  a  harmful  effect  upon  the  organism 
of  a  girl  at  just  this  time. 

The  young  people  should  be  encouraged  to  eat  plenty 
of  vegetables  and  fruit.  It  would  be  well  if  fruit  were 
available  for  them  between  meals,  as  it  would  be  of 


FOOD  FOR  SCHOOL-CHILDREN         275 

far  greater  benefit  for  them  than  would  be  the  candy, 
college  ices,  ice-cream  sodas,  or  rich  cake  which  are 
constantly  resorted  to  by  the  ever-hungry  student. 
Rich  cake,  pastry,  and  fried  foods  should  be  avoided 
and  candy  can  only  safely  be  used  immediately  after 
meals,  not  between  meals. 

During  the  adolescent  period  the  young  people  are 
very  apt  to  show  vagaries  in  their  likes  and  dislikes 
about  their  food.  This  is  where  early  train-  Vagaries 
ing  will  have  its  strong  effect.  If  eating  harmful 
has  always  been  considered  a  part  of  the  day's  busi- 
ness to  be  carried  out  with  a  definite  aim  in  mind, 
that  of  building  up  strong,  healthy  bodies,  very  little 
trouble  will  be  met  with  at  this  time.  If  on  the  other 
hand,  the  girl  and  boy  have  been  allowed  to  pick  and 
choose  pretty  much  as  they  pleased  without  respect 
to  the  value  of  the  foods  themselves,  they  are  quite 
apt  not  to  get  the  kind  of  food  the  body  most  requires 
during  this  period  of  great  growth.  It  requires  great 
care^on  the  part  of  the  homemaker  to  see  that  it  is 
impossible  for  the  young  people  to  have  a  one-sided 
diet,  even  though  they  do  not  eat  everything  that  is 
served.  This  means  careful  planning  so  that  the  groups 
of  foods  will  be  represented  at  the  meal  in  more  than 
in  just  one  form.  Breadstuff s  may  be  served  in  a  va- 
riety of  ways  so  that  the  cereal  content  of  the  meal 
will  still  be  high.  Cinnamon  buns,  date  or  raisin  bread, 
currant  rolls,  and  other  forms  of  bread  may  well  be 
used.  Desserts  may  also  be  varied  in  such  a  way  as 
to  avoid  monotony  and  yet  introduce  valuable  build- 
ing material  into  the  diet.  Instead  of  serving  an  ordi- 
nary rice  pudding,  it  can  sometimes  be  made  with 
chocolate,  or  with  molasses,  and  apples  baked  in  it, 


276    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

and  the  much-despised  cornstarch  pudding  can  be 
dressed  up  by  being  served  with  stewed  figs,  ginger, 
and  whipped  cream,  or  peaches  or  other  raw  fruit.  In 
this  way  milk  can  be  introduced  into  the  diet  un- 
obtrusively. 

From  the  time  when  the  children  can  have  their 
heartiest  meal  at  night  with  the  rest  of  the  family,  the 
The  problem  luncheon  is  always  the  biggest  problem, 
of  lunch  Th^  is  just  as  £rue  jn  the  colleges  as  it  is 

in  the  home  where  the  children  are  still  either  in  the 
grammar  school  or  in  the  high  school.  If  the  child  has 
to  take  his  midday  meal  with  him,  just  as  much  care 
should  be  given  to  the  planning  of  the  lunch-box  as 
though  the  meal  were  to  be  eaten  at  home.  All  the  food 
groups  should  be  represented  in  such  form  as  can  be 
carried  in  a  lunch-box  and  still  be  appetizing  when 
taken  out  several  hours  later.  In  order  to  protect  the 
food  as  much  as  possible,  sandwiches  and  cake  should 
be  carefully  wrapped  in  paraffin  paper.  Little  dishes 
can  be  used  to  carry  such  foods  as  a  baked  custard  or 
a  baked  apple  or  even  stewed  prunes.  By  using  a  ther- 
mos bottle  soup  or  cocoa  or  even  cold  milk  can  be 
taken  to  supplement  the  lunch  in  the  box. 

There  are  many  fillings  which  can  be  put  into  the 
sandwiches  to  provide  protein  or  vegetable  material. 
Thinly  sliced  cold  meat  of  different  kinds,  hard-boiled 
eggs,  cheese,  the  puree  of  pulses  or  peanut  butter  will 
be  of  the  first  class,  while  lettuce,  celery,  sliced  toma- 
toes will  be  of  the  second.  If  a  meat  sandwich  is  taken, 
lettuce  can  be  taken  separately,  carefully  washed  and 
wrapped  in  paraffin  paper.  There  is  more  danger  of 
neglecting  this  important  group  of  foods  in  the  lunch- 
box  than  any  of  the  others.  Fruit  should  be  included 


FOOD  FOR  SCHOOL-CHILDREN         277 

every  day,  either  as  an  apple  or  orange,  or  as  a  few 
dates  and  figs.  These  latter  will  also  provide  the  sweet 
which  is  so  greatly  craved  by  young  people.  In  making 
sandwiches  try  to  use  a  variety  of  breads  as  much  as 
possible,  oatmeal  or  graham  instead  of  white,  for  in 
these  the  young  people  can  obtain  more  iron  and  other 
salts  than  they  can  from  white  bread. 

Many  of  our  preparatory  and  high  schools  which 
have  the  long  session  are  making  it  possible  for  the 
boys  and  girls  to  have  a  hot  meal  at  school.  The  school 
This  is,  of  course,  the  ideal  way  if  these  lunch 
meals  are  carefully  supervised.  A  choice  of  dishes 
must  be  served;  yet  among  this  variety  the  dishes 
should  be  so  planned  that  it  would  be  difficult  for  the 
young  people  not  to  get  the  right  kind  of  a  dinner.  A 
soup  of  some  sort,  either  on  a  milk  basis  or  a  rich  broth 
with  vegetables,  should  be  among  the  choice  each  day; 
so  should  a  hot  dish  of  some  kind,  like  macaroni  and 
cheese,  stew,  baked  rice,  and  tomato.  Some  vegetable 
either  as  such  or  as  a  salad  should  be  present  in  the 
menu,  and  a  pudding  and  fruit  as  a  choice  for  the  des- 
sert. From  such  a  list  it  would  be  hard  for  a  boy  or  a 
girl  not  to  get  a  suitable  lunch. 

The  colleges  have  a  little  different  problem.  Most  of 
their  young  people  return  directly  to  work  and  are 
allowed  a  comparatively  short  time  to  eat  lunch.  For 
this  reason  the  lunch  must  consist  of  such  foods  as  can 
be  served  quickly  and  will  be  easily  digested.  If  a  milk 
dish  is  present  in  one  course  or  another,  it  serves  as  a 
good  basis  for  this  midday  meal.  This  dish,  whether  it 
is  soup  or  a  creamed  dish  or  in  the  form  of  a  dessert, 
should  be  supplemented  with  attractive  breadstuffs 
and  vegetables,  either  hot  or  as  salad. 


278     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

MENU  FOR  THE  SCHOOL  LUNCH-BOX 

(i)  Sandwiches:  made  of  stale  bread,  preferably  graham  or 

oatmeal,  and  filled  with: 
finely  chopped  boiled  eggs,  well  but  mildly  seasoned; 
a  nut  paste,  as  peanut  butter  softened  with  milk  or 

cream ; 
a  dried  fruit  paste,  made  of  chopped  dates  or  figs; 
meat,  thinly  sliced  or  finely  chopped  and  seasoned; 
celery,  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  salad  dressing ; 
cream  cheese  and  nuts ; 

American  cheese  grated  and  seasoned  with  tomato; 
lettuce  with  mayonnaise; 

(2)  Fruit :  an  orange  or  apple ;  also  cooked  fruit  if  it  can  be 

carried,  as  apple  sauce  or  baked  apple,  stewed  prunes, 
raisins,  pears,  peaches,  etc.  Tomatoes  may  take  the 
place  of  other  fruit  when  liked. 

(3)  A  sweet:  as  baked  custard,  plain  cookies,  sponge  cake. 

(4)  Milk  or  fruit  juice  to  drink  if  it  can  be  carried. 

RECIPES  FOR  THE  LUNCH-BOX 

COOKIES 

1/2  cup  butter  1/4  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  pastry  flour 

1  egg  2  to  3  teaspoons  baking-powder 

Mix  like  cake.  Put  the  dough  on  the  ice  to  chill,  use  a 
portion  of  it  at  a  time  and  work  quickly  with  little  flour  on 
the  molding  board.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  watching  constantly. 
Cookies  may  be  made  plainer  by  increasing  the  amount  of 
milk,  also  the  flour  and  baking-powder,  or  richer  by  omitting 
the  milk  entirely  and  sprinkling  with  sugar  before  baking. 
The  dough  may  be  divided  into  four  parts  and  flavored 
differently : 


FOOD  FOR  SCHOOL-CHILDREN         279 

To  1/4  add  1  teaspoon  lemon  or  vanilla  extract 

To  1/4  add  1/2  cup  dessicated  or  fresh  cocoanut 

To  1/4  add  1  ounce  chocolate  melted,  or  1  1/2  tablespoons 

dry  cocoa  with  a  little  flour,  also  vanilla 
To  1/4  add  I  teaspoon  mixed  spices  and  1/2  cup  chopped 

raisins,  citron,  or  almonds. 

Proportions  for  Mixed  Spices 

1/2  teaspoon  cloves  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/2  teaspoon  allspice  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  mace 

GINGER  SNAPS 

I  cup  butter  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

I  cup  sugar  I  tablespoon  ginger 

1  cup  N.O.  molasses  3  cups  flour  (pastry) 
1  egg 

Mix  like  cake,  adding  the  flour  sifted  with  the  ginger  and 
soda  last.  Chill  the  dough,  and  roll  out  a  portion  of  it  at  a 
time.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  watching  constantly. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES 

1  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  ginger 

2  cups  molasses  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

I  egg  3  teaspoons  baking-powder 

I  tablespoon  cinnamon  4  cups  flour  (pastry) 

Soften  butter  and  add  to  molasses,  then  add  beaten  egg 
and  1  cup  flour ;  with  the  2d  cup  of  flour  sift  the  ginger  and 
cinnamon,  and  with  the  3d  the  soda.  Add  enough  more 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat 
with  a  rolling-pin  to  1/4  inch  in  thickness,  cut  out,  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven. 


280    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

PEANUT  BUTTER  JUMBLES 

I  cup  granulated  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

1 1 2  cup  sweet  cream  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

1/2  cup  butter  1  egg 

1  cup  peanut  butter  1  3/4  cups  flour 
Salt 

Mix  peanut  butter  with  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg 
well  beaten.  Add  cream  and  mix  in  the  flour  sifted  with  salt, 
soda,  and  cream  of  tartar  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Bake  in  a 
very  hot  oven. 

ROLLED  OATS  AND  PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  brown  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  peanut  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

butter  mixed  with  1  egg 

milk  to  make  soft         1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

and  smooth  1  1/2  cups  rolled  oats,  raw 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  egg  beaten  and  then  peanut 
butter.  Drop  from  teaspoon  on  greased  tin  and  bake  quickly. 

BARLEY  COOKIES 

3  tablespoons  shortening 
1/2  cup  brown  sugar 

1  egg*  well  beaten 

2  tablespoons  milk 

1  cup  barley  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder  }-  sifted  together 
I  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/2  cup  chopped  raisins 


Isii 


Cream  the  shortening,  add  sugar  and  other  ingredients  in 
order,  and  beat  well.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  2  inches  apart, 
on  a  greased  sheet.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  12 
minutes. 


FOOD  FOR  SCHOOL-CHILDREN         281 

SCOTTISH  FANCIES  OR  ROLLED  OATS  WAFERS 

1  egg  1  cup  rolled  oats 

1/2  cup  sugar  1/3  teaspoon  salt 

2/3  tablespoon  melted  butter  or    1/4  teaspoon  vanilla 

oleomargarine 
Beat  egg  very  light  and  then  stir  in  remaining  ingredients. 
Drop  mixture  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  thoroughly  greased  tin 
sheet  or  inverted  dripping-pan  an  inch  apart.  Spread  into 
circular  shape  with  a  case  knife  dipped  in  cold  water,  and 
separate  the  bits  of  oats  to  make  the  wafer  very  thin  when 
cooked.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  delicately  browned. 
Remove  from  pan  quickly.  For  variety  use  2/3  cup  rolled 
oats  and  fill  cup  with  shredded  cocoanut. 

CHOCOLATE  NUT  COOKIES 

1/2  cup  corn  syrup  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

2  tablespoons  strained  honey   1 1 2  teaspoon  salt 
2  squares  chocolate  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

10  tablespoons  rice  flour  1/2  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

4  tablespoons  barley  flour 

Mix  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  on  greased  baking-sheets. 
Bake  15  minutes. 


CHAPTER  XIX 

FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS 

In  China  a  doctor  is  engaged  to  keep  the  family  well. 
He  would  be  greatly  helped  by  some  knowledge  of 
foods  on  the  part  of  the  mother  of  the  family  who  plans 
the  meals,  for  just  as  much  as  a  good  diet  is  essential 
for  the  maintenance  of  health,  so  one  that  is  badly 
planned  causes  the  lowering  of  the  power  of  resistance 
of  the  body.  This  gives  a  chance  for  the  disease  germs 
which  are  ever  present  around  us  to  get  a  foothold  in 
the  body  and  to  develop  into  some  serious  condition. 
Aside  from  this,  improper  food  is  often  the  direct 
cause  for  much  illness,  whether  of  a  serious  kind  or  of 
some  trifling  nature  which  is,  however,  sufficient  to 
lower  working  ability. 

When  the  individual  is  sick  and  under  the  doctor's 
care,  the  doctor's  directions  as  to  the  food  that  must 
Typical  in-  be  eaten  must  be  carried  out  implicitly, 
valid  diets  jf  however,  the  nurse  or  the  mother  has  a 
certain  understanding  of  the  terms  in  use  when  speak- 
ing of  the  kind  of  diet  which  can  be  given  to  the  invalid, 
she  can  be  of  great  help  to  the  doctor.  There  are  three 
such  typical  diets  in  common  use  in  the  hospitals  to- 
day. The  first  of  these  is  known  as  the  Fluid  Diet,  As 
is  shown  by  its  name  no  solids  are  given,  but  all  nour- 
ishment is  given  in  liquid  form.  Milk,  of  course,  is  the 
basis  of  such  a  diet,  alone  or  in  various  combinations 
with  eggs,  gruels,  and  broths.  Fruit  drinks  are  also 
included  and  the  food  value  of  these  may  also  be 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS  283 

increased  by  the  use  of  eggs.  It  is  usual  to  give  such 
a  diet  in  small  quantities  at  frequent  intervals. 

The  second  is  known  as  the  Soft  or  Semi-Solid  Diet. 
This  would  include  all  foods  in  the  fluid  diet  and  the 
simplest  of  solid  foods,  such  as  toasts,  custards,  whips, 
souffles,  gelatine  dishes,  and  ice  cream.  All  meat,  fish, 
and  green  vegetables  are  omitted. 

The  third  diet  is  known  as  the  Light  or  Convalescent 
Diet.  This  diet  is  very  similar  to  one  that  would  be 
given  a  healthy  child,  since  the  aim  is  the  same  in  both 
cases  —  to  provide  such  food  as  will  build  the  body 
without  disturbing  the  digestion.  Plenty  of  milk  would 
be  used  in  this  diet  as  well  as  in  the  others  and  would 
be  supplemented  by  the  simpler  meat  dishes,  well- 
cooked  cereals,  baked  potatoes,  green  vegetables, 
fruits,  and  plain  desserts.  No  fried  food  nor  rich  dishes 
would  be  given  to  a  convalescent  any  more  than  to  a 
child. 

Since  digestion  is  aided  by  the  attractiveness  with 
which  the  meal  is  served,  this  point  should  be  carefully 
noted  in  the  service  for  an  invalid.  The  . 
meals  should  be  served  at  regular  inter- 
vals, the  foods  should  be  cooked  as  perfectly  as  possible, 
and  the  whole  served  daintily  on  a  tray  covered  with 
fine  linen  and  the  best  china  used.  It  would  stimulate 
the  appetite  of  the  patient  to  have  a  little  surprise  on 
the  tray,  either  a  single  flower,  a  gift,  or  a  looked-for 
letter.  It  is  never  well  to  leave  the  invalid  to  eat  his 
meal  by  himself,  since  pleasant  companionship  also 
tends  to  the  better  digestion  of  the  food. 

When  one  is  first  taken  ill,  fasting  for  two  or  three 
days  does  no  harm  in  the  case  of  an  adult,  since  there 
is  usually  a  sufficient  supply  of  material  in  the  body 


284    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

which  can  be  utilized  in  such  an  emergency.  During  this 
Food  require-  Peri°d  the  digestive  tract  would  have  a 
ment  in  chance  for  a  complete  rest.  If,  however,  the 

sickness  illness  is  protracted,  a  sufficient  amount 

of  food  must  be  provided  to  supply  the  fuel  for  the 
body  activity.  It  was  thought  at  one  time  that  because 
a  person  was  lying  in  bed  and  not  performing  any  ex- 
ternal work  that  he  did  not  need  any  food.  This  theory 
is  now  just  as  obsolete  as  is  the  general  bleeding  of  pa- 
tients used  some  centuries  ago.  In  studying  a  patient 
with  a  respiration  calorimeter  it  was  found  that  a 
healthy  man  of  normal  weight  lying  in  bed  for  twenty- 
four  hours  would  require  about  1850  calories  just  to 
cover  his  internal  muscular  activity.  In  case  of  sickness 
the  individual  may  even  require  more  than  this  to 
overcome  the  wasting  away  of  tissue  due  to  bacterial 
action.  The  knowledge  of  this  fact  has  revolutionized 
the  feeding  of  patients  suffering  with  long-time  illnesses 
especially  with  such  fevers  as  typhoid. 

FOOD  FOR  SLIGHT  ILLNESSES 

Many  times  an  individual  is  slightly  ill  when  it  is  not 
necessary  to  call  the  doctor  and  yet  when  especial  care 
with  the  food  would  help  towards  rapid 
recovery.  In  the  case  of  colds,  for  instance, 
which  are  usually  contracted  because  the  individual  is 
slightly  below  par,  the  first  thing  to  do  is  to  maintain 
a  laxative  diet  of  low  fuel  value  for  about  twenty-four 
hours.  This  means  an  increased  quantity  of  fruits  and 
vegetables,  no  fats  nor  sugars,  and  a  small  amount  of 
starches.  When  the  system  has  become  cleared,  this 
diet  should  be  followed  by  one  that  is  high  in  such  food 
as  will  build  up  the  strength  of  the  body.  Extra  fats 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS  285 

should  be  used  in  the  form  of  butter,  cream,  salad  oil, 
and  bacon  fat.  Care  of  course  should  be  taken  to  use 
foods  that  are  easily  digested  and  not  those  that  would 
again  clog  up  the  system. 

In  those  cases  where  the  digestive  tract  itself  is  not 
working  properly  it  is  well  to  avoid  all  food  whatever 
for  a  day  or  so,  or  to  use  only  those  foods  Digestive 
that  are  very  light  and  easy  to  digest,  such  troubles 
as  thoroughly  dried  toast  and  broths,  particularly  mut- 
ton broth  in  which  rice  has  been  cooked.  The  diet  may 
then  be  gradually  increased,  beginning  with  the  simple 
foods  of  the  semi-solid  diet,  avoiding  sugars  and  rich 
foods,  and  using  fruits  and  vegetables  very  cautiously 
since  they  are  apt  to  be  irritating  to  the  intestinal 
tract. 

FOOD  FOR  SPECIAL  DISEASES 

Where  we  have  a  disease  in  which  the  patient  must 
be  confined  to  the  bed  for  several  weeks,  care  must  be 
taken  to  prevent  the  wasting  of  the  tissues  Fevers,  espe- 
due  both  to  the  disease  itself  and  to  the  cially  typhoid  \ 
lack  of  food.  The  food  given  must  be  of  an  easily  di- 
gested sort.  In  the  case  of  typhoid  fever  the  seat  of  the 
disease  is  the  intestinal  tract,  so  that  the  food  given 
must  be  of  such  a  kind  as  can  be  largely  digested  in  the 
stomach  and  have  very  little  waste  to  be  dealt  with  by 
the  intestines.  The  best  results  have  been  obtained  by 
giving  the  patients  milk  the  fuel  value  of  which  has 
been  increased  by  the  addition  of  cream  and  milk 
sugar.  Broths  are  also  given,  cream  soups,  and  fruit 
juices  in  large  quantities.  The  patient  is  fed  at  two- 
hour  intervals,  and  the  total  number  of  calories  taken 
at  each  feeding  carefully  measured.  In  this  way  it  is 


286    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

possible  for  a  person  to  leave  the  hospital  after  a  long 

siege  of  typhoid  weighing  as  much  as  he  did  when  he 

was  brought  in.  The  fearful  emaciation  which  was 

thought  to  be  a  part  of  typhoid  fever  is  no  longer 

considered  inevitable. 

With  tuberculosis  we  have  a  disease  in  which  there 

is  a  large  wasting  away  of  tissue.  This  must  be  counter- 

m  t  .  .  balanced  by  an  excess  of  food  eaten.  At 
Tuberculosis        -  .        ... 

the  same  time  it  is  important  not  to  upset 

the  digestive  tract  by  this  excess  of  food.  It  is  custom- 
ary to  feed  the  patient  as  much  as  possible  until  he  has 
regained  his  normal  weight.  In  order  to  maintain  the 
normal  weight,  it  is  then  necessary  that  he  should  eat 
a  third  more  fuel  value  than  would  be  his  normal  diet. 
This  is  usually  made  up  by  the  free  use  of  milk,  eggs, 
and  fats. 

Diabetes  is  a  disease  which  requires  the  constant 
supervision  of  a  physician  but  it  is  also  one  where  the 
health  of  the  patient  depends  absolutely 
upon  the  food  which  is  eaten.  This  should 
of  course  be  regulated  by  the  physician,  but  much  can 
be  done  by  the  patient  himself  if  he  understands  the 
situation.  The  cause  of  the  disease  is  a  loss  on  the  part 
of  the  body  of  the  power  of  using  carbohydrates,  so 
that  sugar,  instead  of  being  burned  up  by  the  tissues  for 
energy,  is  carried  in  the  blood  and  excreted  in  the  urine. 
This  condition  can  be  controlled  by  the  food  eaten. 
The  basis  of  a  diet  for  such  a  patient  should  be  protein 
material  and  fats.  Carbohydrates  can  only  be  used  in 
a  restricted  quantity,  depending  upon  the  extent  to 
which  the  disease  has  developed  in  the  individual. 
When  the  point  of  safety  has  been  ascertained  by  a 
study  of  the  urine,  the  diet  can  then  be  kept  within 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS  287 

that  amount  by  a  table  of  equivalents  which  can  be 
had  from  the  doctor.  The  housekeeper  must  then  make 
up  a  variety  of  meals,  using  only  the  quantity  of 
starchy  foods  prescribed  by  the  doctor. 

There  is  a  general  disagreement  among  physicians  as 
to  the  exact  cause  of  gout  and  rheumatism  but  it  is 
generally  admitted  that  one  of  the  effects  Gout  and 
of  them  is  an  excess  of  uric  acid  in  the  rheumatism 
blood.  This  is  the  acid  that  is  formed  in  the  process  of 
the  utilization  of  protein  foods.  Hence  usually  gout  has 
been  described  as  an  aristocratic  disease,  the  high  liv- 
ing and  perhaps  pretty  steady  drinking  of  the  upper 
classes  producing  this  trouble  in  middle  and  later  life. 
To  avoid  these  diseases  those  people  who  have  a  gouty 
tendency  should  be  careful  not  to  eat  an  excess  of 
foods  of  all  kinds,  but  particularly  of  protein  foods. 
Foods  which  tend  to  disturb  the  digestive  system 
should  be  avoided  as  should  also  those  foods  which 
have  a  tendency  to  putrefaction  and  which  cause 
constipation.  This  reduces  the  diet  to  plain,  wholesome 
food,  well  chosen,  thoroughly  cooked,  and  used  in  mod- 
erate amounts.  Excess  of  food  is,  after  all,  the  most  im- 
portant element  of  danger  and  one  that  is  aggravated 
if  the  food  is  rich. 

RECIPES  FOR  INVALID  DIETS 

TOAST  WATER 

2  slices  stale  bread  1  cup  boiling  water 

Cut  stale  bread  in  1/3  inch  slices  and  remove  crusts.  Put 
in  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  dried  and  well 
browned.  Break  in  small  pieces,  add  boiling  water,  cover, 
let  stand  one  hour.  Squeeze  through  cheesecloth.  Season 


288     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

with  salt  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  It  often  proves  efficient  in 
extreme  cases  of  nausea. 

LEMON  WHEY 

1/4  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

Add  lemon  juice  to  milk  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Strain 
through  double  thickness  of  cheesecloth. 

SYRUP  FOR  FRUIT  BEVERAGES 

3/4  cup  sugar  3/4  cup  boiling  water 

Add  sugar  to  boiling  water  and  place  on  front  of  range. 
Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  let  boil,  without  stirring, 
twelve  minutes.  Cool  and  bottle. 

LEMONADE 

1  1/2  tablespoons  syrup 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice         3/4  cup  cold  water 

Mix  syrup  and  lemon  juice,  and  add  cold  water.  Use  a 
glass  lemon-squeezer  or  wooden  drill  for  expressing  juice, 
to  avoid  extracting  oil  from  rind,  strain  juice  before  using. 
Soda  water  or  Apollinaris  may  be  used  instead  of  part  or 
all  of  cold  water. 

EGG  LEMONADE 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar     2  teaspoons  sherry 

1/4  cup  cold  water  2  tablespoons  crushed  ice 

Beat  egg  slightly,  add  sugar,  water,  lemon  juice,  and  wine, 
then  strain  over  crushed  ice.  Wine  may  be  omitted. 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE 

2  tablespoons  flaxseed  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
2  cups  boiling  water  Syrup 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS  289 

Pick  over  and  wash  flaxseed.  Cover  with  boiling  water, 
and  let  simmer  one  hour.  Strain,  add  lemon  juice  and  syrup. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

IRISH  MOSS  LEMONADE 

1/8  cup  Irish  moss  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

I  cup  cold  water  Sugar 

KUMYSS 

2  tablespoons  sugar 
2  tablespoons  water 

Cook  to  syrup,  rinse  pan  with  1/2  cup  water,  put  into 
bowl  with  1  quart  milk,  1/8  cup  compressed  yeast  made 
smooth  with  part  of  the  milk.  Mix  well;  fill  bottles  3/4  full, 
tie  corks  in.  Stand  bottles  in  refrigerator  3  days;  lay  them 
down  in  refrigerator  5  days.  Draw  kumyss  with  a  cham- 
pagne top. 

BOTTLED  BEEF  ESSENCE 

I  pound  steak  from  top  of  round 

Wipe  steak,  remove  all  fat,  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Place 
in  canning  jar,  cover;  place  on  trivet  in  kettle  and  surround 
with  cold  water.  Allow  water  to  heat  slowly,  care  being  taken 
not  to  have  it  reach  a  higher  temperature  than  1300  F. 
Let  stand  2  hours;  strain,  and  press  the  meat  to  obtain  all 
the  juices.  Salt  to  taste. 

BOTTLED  BEEF  TEA 

I  pound  steak  from  top  of  round 
I  pint  cold  water 
Salt 

Prepare  the  beef  as  for  bottled  beef  essence.  Soak  15 
minutes  in  the  water,  and  cook  3  hours  same  as  bottled 
beef  essence.  Strain  and  season.  In  reheating,  care  should 
be  taken  not  to  coagulate  the  juices. 


290    FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 

FROZEN  BEEF  TEA 

Freeze  beef  tea  to  the  consistency  of  a  mush. 

BROILED  BEEF  ESSENCE 

1/2  pound  steak  from  top  of  round  (cut  3/4  inch  thick). 
Wipe  steak,  remove  all  fat,  and  place  in  heated  broiler. 
Broil  3  minutes  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  every  10  seconds  to 
prevent  escape  of  juices.  Put  on  a  hot  plate  and  cut  in  1  1/2 
inch  pieces ;  gash  each  piece  two  or  three  times  on  each  side. 
Press  out  all  the  juice  with  a  lemon-squeezer  into  a  warm 
bowl,  set  in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  care  being  taken  that  the 
heat  is  not  sufficient  to  coagulate  juices.  Salt  the  juice  very 
slightly.  Remove  the  globules  of  fat.  Serve  by  teaspoonfuls, 
or,  if  solid  food  can  be  taken,  the  juice  may  be  poured  on 
some  dry,  fresh-made  toast. 

BROILED  BEEF  TEA 

Dilute  broiled  beef  essence  with  water. 


EGGNOGS 1 

Egg     Sugar                   Fluid 

Flavor 

Plain :      1      3/4  tb.     3/4  c.  milk  or  cream 

1  tb. 

brandy 

Coffee:     1  1  1/2  tb.     6  tb.  milk  or  cream 

6tb. 

strong  coffee 

Fruit:      1         2  tb.       1/4  c.  water 

2  tb. 

fruit  juice 

1/4  c.  chopped  ice 

Method:  Beat  egg  well.  Add  sugar,  beat  again.  Add 

remaining  in- 

gredients.  Serve  very  cold  in  glass. 

GRUELS 

Flour                                    Salt        Boiling  water 

Milk  {scalded) 

Barley  flour,  1  tb.                        1/4  t. 

1/2  c. 

1/2  c. 

Rice  flour,  1  tb.                            1/4  t. 

1/2  c. 

1/2  c. 

Farina,  1  tb.                                  1/4  t. 

1/2  c. 

1/2  c. 

Oat  flour,  1  tb.                             1/4  t. 

1/2  c. 

1/2  c. 

Cracker  crumbs,  2  tb.                  1/4  t. 

1/2  c. 

1/2  c. 

1  These  tables  of  recipes  were  taken  from  A  Cook  Book  for  Nurses,  by  Sarah  C.  Hill. 
(Whitcomb  and  Barrows.  Boston,  1907.) 


FOOD  FOR  INVALIDS 


291 


Method:  In  top  of  double  boiler  mix  the  flour  with  cold  water  enough 
to  form  a  paste.  Add  the  boiling  water.  Boil  2  or  3  minutes,  then 
set  over  lower  part  of  double  boiler  to  cook  for  15  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  Add  the  salt  and  scalded  milk,  and  serve  in  a  hot  cup 
or  bowl.  The  cracker  gruel  does  not  need  to  be  mixed  with  cold 
water  nor  cooked  over  hot  water,  but  is  sufficiently  cooked  by  the 
2  or  3  minutes  boiling. 


FARINACEOUS  PUDDINGS 


material 

Milk 

Egg 

Sugar 

Flavor 

Plain:      1  tb.  cornstarch 

1/2  c. 

1/2 

2  tb. 

Few  drops 

or  1  1/2  tb. 

white 

vanilla,  or 

farina,  or  2  t. 

of  I 

1  t.  brandy, 

arrowroot 

or  few   thin 
shavings  of 
lemon  rind 

Chocolate:  Same 

1/2  c. 

Same 

Same 

3/8  sq. 
chocolate 

Method:  Mix  the  farinaceous  material,  sugar,  and  a  few  grains  of  salt 
together.  Add  cold  water  to  make  a  smooth  thick  paste.  Add  the 
milk  scalded.  Cook  until  it  thickens  in  double  boiler,  stirring  occa- 
sionally, for  15  minutes.  Beat  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  to 
this  the  hot  mixture  gradually,  beating  all  the  time.  Pour  into  a 
mold,  chill.  Serve  with  a  soft  custard  made  with  the  yolk  of  the 
egg. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDINGS 

Tapioca  Fluid       Egg  Sugar 

Cream:  2  tb.  minute  or    1/2  c.        1/2  1  tb. 

1  tb.  pearl  milk 


Flavor 
Lemon  rind 

or  1/2  t. 

vanilla 
Same 


Baked:  1  tb.  minute  or    1/2  c.        1/2  yolk    1  tb. 

pearl  milk 

Coffee:  2  tb.  minute  or    1/2  c.        1/2  white  2  tb. 
I  tb.  pearl  strong       of  1  egg 

coffee 
Fruit:    2  tb.  pearl  or       I  c.  boil-  To  taste  1  apple,  or 

3  tb.  minute  ing  water  1  peach  or 

1/4  c. 
berries 

Method:  Soak  pearl  tapioca  if  used.  Put  tapioca  in  liquid  in  double 


292     FOOD  FACTS  FOR  THE  HOME-MAKER 


boiler.  Cook  till  transparent.  Add  egg-yolk,  cook  slightly.  Add 
white  beaten  stiff.  Put  in  mold.  Serve  cold  with  cream  or  a  fruit 


sauce. 


Lemon: 
Orange: 


Coffee: 
Wine: 


JELLIES 

I  t.  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in  I  tb.  cold  water. 

Hot  liquid  Sugar  Flavor 

6  1/2  tb.  boiling  water  3  tb.  I  1/2  tb.  lemon  juice 

3  1/2  tb.  boiling  water  2  1/2  tb.  3  tb.  orange  juice, 

and  1/2  tb.  lemon 
juice 
1  tb.  4  tb.  strong  coffee 
2  1/2  tb.   3  tb.  wine, 

1/2  tb.  lemon  juice 
2  1/2  tb.  4  tb.  grapefruit  juice 


4  tb.  boiling  water 

5  tb.  boiling  water 


Grapefruit:  4  tb.  boiling  water 

IRISH  MOSS  BLANC  MANGE 

1/4  cup  Irish  moss  1/3  teaspoon  vanilla 

11/2  cups  cold  water 
1  3/4  cups  milk 


Salt 


Pour  cold  water  over  moss  and  let  stand  20  minutes.  Pick 
over  moss;  add  to  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler  15  to  20 
minutes.  Milk  should  be  but  very  slightly  thickened.  Strain 
and  add  salt  and  vanilla.  Strain  again  into  molds.  Serve 
with  sugar  and  cream.  Sea  moss  farina  may  be  used  in- 
stead of  Irish  moss  —  2  teaspoons  being  sufficient  to  thicken 
a  pint  of  milk.  A  little  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 


ABBREVIATIONS  AND  A  TABLE 
OF  MEASURES 

t.  =  teaspoon 
tb.  =  tablespoon 

c.  =  cup 
pt.  =  pint 
qt.  =  quart 

3  teaspoons    =     i  tablespoon,  or  1/2  ounce 

4  tablespoons  =1/4  cup 
8  tablespoons  —1/2  cup 

16  tablespoons  =     1  cup,  or  8  ounces 
2  cups  =     I  pint,  or  1  pound 

2  pints  =      I  quart 

All  measures  are  level  (the  flour  leveled  with  the  back  of 
a  knife  to  the  edge  of  the  spoon  or  cup) . 
Sift  all  dry  ingredients  before  measuring. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

GENERAL  REFERENCE  BOOKS 

United  States  Food  Administration.  Food  and  the  War. 

A  textbook  for  college  classes.  Houghton  Mifflin  Com- 
pany. 1918. 
Robert  Hutchison.  Food  and  the  Principles  of  Dietetics. 

William  Wood  and  Company.  191 7. 
W.  H.  Jordan.  Principles  of  Human  Nutrition.  The  Mac- 

millan  Company.  1914. 
Vernon   Kellogg  and  Alonzo   E.   Taylor.    The   Food 

Problem.  The  Macmillan  Company.  19 17. 
Helen  Kinne  and  Anna  M.  Cooley.  Foods  and  Household 

Management.  The  Macmillan  Company.  1916. 
Mary  Swartz  Rose.  Feeding  the  Family.  The  Macmillan 

Company.  191 7. 
Henry    C.  Sherman.    Food    Products.    The    Macmillan 

Company.  1914. 
Henry  C.  Sherman.  Chemistry  of  Foods  and  Nutrition.  The 

Macmillan  Company.  191 8. 
Frank  Hall  Thorp.  Outlines  of  Industrial  Chemistry.  The 

Macmillan  Company.  1905. 

PAMPHLETS 

W.  O.  Atwater  and  A.  P.  Bryant.  The  Chemical  Composi- 
tion of  American  Food  Products.  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  Office  of  Experiment  Station,  Bulle- 
tin No.  28.  1906. 

W.  O.  Atwater.  Principles  of  Nutrition  and  Nutritive  Value 
of  Food.  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Farm- 
ers' Bulletin  No.  142.  1917. 

Caroline  L.  Hunt  and  H.  W.  Atwater.  I.  What  the  Body 


296  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Needs.  II.  Cereal  Foods.  III.  Foods  Rich  in  Protein.  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture.  I.  Farmers'  Bulletin 
No.  808.  March,  1917.  II.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  817. 
May,  1917.  III.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  824.  July,  19x7. 

Anna  Barrows.  The  Farm  Kitchen  as  a  Workshop.  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Farmers'  Bulletin 
No.  607.  1914. 

E.  T.  Wilson.  Modern  Conveniences  for  the  Farm  Home. 
United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Farmers'  Bul- 
letin No.  270.  191 6. 

Mary  Hinman  Abel.  Care  of  Food  in  the  Home.  United 
States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Farmers'  Bulletin 
No.  375.  1916. 

United  States  Department  of  Agriculture.  Home-Made 
Fireless  Cookers  and  Their  Use.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  771. 
1917. 

BOOKS  ON  THE  CARE  AND  FEEDING  OF 
CHILDREN 

Charles  G.  Kerley.  Short  Talks  with   Young  Mothers. 

G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons.  1919. 
L.  Emmett    Holt.    The    Care  and  Feeding  of  Children. 

D.  Appleton  &  Company.  1918. 
Richard  Smith.  The  Baby's  First  Two  Years.  Houghton 

Mifflin  Company.  1915. 

PAMPHLETS  ON  THE  CARE  AND  FEEDING  OF 
CHILDREN 

Mary   Swartz   Rose.    The   Feeding   of    Young    Children. 

Teachers   College   Bulletin,   Technical   Bulletin   No.   3. 

January  14,  191 1. 
Mary   Swartz  Rose.    Food  for  School  Boys  and  Girls. 

Teachers  College  Bulletin,  Technical  Bulletin  No.  23. 

February  14,  1914. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  297 

Reprinted  from  the  Public  Health  Bulletin.  Food  for 
Children  from  Two  to  Six  Years  Old.  Massachusetts  State 
Department  of  Health.  Volume  5.  No.  2.  1918. 
Caroline  L.  Hunt.  Food  for  Young  Children.  United  States 
Department  of  Agriculture,  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.   171. 
June,  1917. 
Lucy  H.  Gillett.  Food  Allowances  for  Healthy  Children. 
Bureau  of  Food  Supply,  A.I.C.P.,  New  York  City.  Pub- 
lication No.  115. 
Caroline  L.  Hunt.  School  Lunches.  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture.  Farmers'  Bulletin  No.  712.  March 
17,  1916. 
Children's  Bureau,  U.S.  Department  of  Labor. 
Care  of  Children  Series: 
No.  1.  Prenatal  Care.  By  Mrs.  Max  West. 
No.  2.  Infant  Care.  By  Mrs.  Max  West. 
No.  3.   Child  Care.  By  Mrs.  Max  West. 
No.  4.  Milk.  By  Dorothy  R.  Mendenhall,  M.D. 
Children's  Year  Follow-up  Series: 

No.  1.   What  is  Malnutrition?  By  Lydia  Roberts. 

FARMERS'  BULLETINS.  UNITED  STATES 
DEPARTMENT  OF  AGRICULTURE 

Mary  Hinman  Abel.  Beans,  Peas,  and  Other  Legumes  as 
Food.  No.  121.  1916. 

Caroline  L.  Hunt  and  H.  L.  Wessling.  Bread  and  Bread- 
Making  in  the  Home.  No.  807.  191 7. 

C  D.  Woods  and  Harry  Snyder.  Cereal  Breakfast  Foods. 
No.  249.  1917. 

C.  F.  Langworthy  and  C.  L.  Hunt.  Cheese  and  its  Eco- 
nomical Uses  in  the  Diet.  No.  487.  19 17. 

C.  F.  Langworthy  and  C.  L.  Hunt.  Corn  Meal  as  a  Food 
and  Ways  of  Using  It.  No.  565.  191 7. 

C.  F.  Langworthy  and  C.  L.  Hunt.  Corn,  Kafir,  and  Cow* 
peas  in  the  Home.  No.  559.  191 3. 


298  BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Charles  D.  Woods.  Food  Value  of  Corn  and  Corn  Products. 

No.  298.  1915. 
C.  F.  Langworthy.    Use  of  Fruit  as  a  Food.   No.   293. 

1915. 

C.  L.  Hunt.  Fresh  Fruit  and  Vegetables  as  Conservers  of 

Other  Staple  Foods.  Number  871.  1917. 
C.  L.  Hunt.  Honey  and  Its  Uses  in  the  Home.  No.  653.  191 5. 
C.  F.  Langworthy  and  C.  L.  Hunt.  Economical  Use  of  Meat 

in  the  Home.  No.  391.  1910. 
Charles  D.  Woods.  Meats:    Composition  and   Cooking. 

No.  34.  1904. 
Whitaker,  Rogers,  and  C.  L.  Hunt.  Milk:  Care  of  and  Use 

in  the  Home.  No.  413.  1917. 
R.  D.  Milner.  The  Use  of  Milk  as  Food.  No.  363.  1916. 
C.  F.  Langworthy  and  C.  L.  Hunt.  Mutton  and  Its  Value 

in  the  Diet.  No.  526.  19 16. 
Mary  Hinman  Abel.  Sugar  and  Its  Value  as  Food.  No.  535. 

1915. 
Maria  Parloa.  Preparation  of  Vegetables  for  the  Table.  No. 
256.  1917. 

MISCELLANEOUS  PAMPHLETS 

United  States  Department  of  Agriculture.  Professional 

Papers. 
A.  D.  Holmes  and  H.  L.  Lang.  Fats  and  Their  Economical 

Use  in  the  Home.  Bulletin  No.  469.  December  15,  1916. 
A.  D.  Holmes.  Studies  on  the  Digestibility  of  Some  Nut  Oils. 

Bulletin  No.  630.  April  16,  1918. 
A.  D.  Holmes.  Digestibility  of  Proteins  Supplied  by  Soy-Bean 

and  Peanut  Press-Cake  Flours.  Bulletin  No.  717.  Sept.  25, 

1918. 
A.  D.  Holmes.  Digestibility  of  Certain  Miscellaneous  Animal 

Fats.  Bulletin  No.  613.  April  25,  1919. 
A.  D.  Holmes.  Elements  on  the  Digestibility  of  Fish.  Bulletin 

No.  649.  April  13,  1918. 


BIBLIOGRAPHY  299 

The  Agricultural  Situation  for  1918.  Part  II.  Dairying. 
Circular  No.  85.  Jan.  31,  191 8.  Office  of  the  Secretary. 

Office  of  the  Secretary.  Cottage  Cheese  Dishes.  Circular 
No.  109.  April  15,  1918. 

Office  of  the  Secretary.  Use  Rice  Flour  to  Save  Wheat. 
Circular  No.  119.  1918. 

Office  of  the  Secretary.  Use  of  Soy-Bean  Flour  to  Save 
Wheat,  Meat,  and  Fat.  Circular  No.  113.  1918. 

United  States  Food  Administration  Bulletins  and  Cir- 
culars. 1917  and  1918. 


INDEX 


Abbreviations,  293. 

Absorption  of  food,  234. 

Albumen  water,  271. 

Allspice,  215. 

Almond  extract,  216. 

Aluminum    for    kitchen    utensils, 

14. 
Angel  cake,  142. 
Angel  cream,  208. 
Animal  fats,  167. 
Anise,  seeds,  215;  oil,  216. 
Apple    compote,    195;    dumpling, 

195;  ginger,  224;  porcupine,  197; 
I    pudding,  196;  sauce,  197;  tapioca 

or  sago,  197. 
Apple  sauce  cake,  194. 
Asparagus  loaf,  157. 

Babies.  See  Infants. 

Bacon  and  eggs,  253. 

Bacon  (crisp)  fat,  52. 

Baked  bananas  (1),  189;  bananas 
(11),  190;  beans,  90-92;  bean 
soup,  101;  bread  and  cheese,  94; 
cheese  and  pimento  potato,  156; 
fish,  73;  haddock,  in  cheese 
sauce,  74;  halibut,  with  tomato 
sauce,  73;  hominy,  116;  potatoes, 
stuffed,  155;  ripe  cucumber,  159; 
smelts,  84;  stuffed  green  peppers, 
161;  tomatoes,  162. 

Baking-powder,  124,  125. 

Baking-powder  method  of  mixing 
breadstuff  s,  123. 

Baking-soda,  124. 

Bananas,  baked  (1),  189;  baked  (11), 
190;  fried,  189. 

Barley,  109,  no. 

Barley  and  rice  flour  muffins,  129. 

Barley  cookies,  280. 

Barley  sugar,  187. 

Barley  water,  for  infants,  262; 
recipe  for,  271. 

Basil,  215. 

Batter,  pour,  121;  drop,  121. 

Bavarian  cream,  205,  206;  cara- 


mel, 206;  chocolate,  206;  coffee, 
206. 

Bay-leaf,  215. 

Bean,  baked,  soup,  101 ;  black  and 
white,  soups,  flavoring  for,  100; 
dried,  soup,  100;  green,  and 
pickled  beet  salad,  175;  lima,  and 
cheese  roast,  95. 

Beans,  21;  baked,  90-92;  mashed, 
as  basis  for  soups,  91;  mold  of, 
160;  soy,  89. 

Beef,  cuts  of,  44-47;  sides,  44; 
quarters,  45;  loin,  46;  rump,  46; 
round,  47. 

Beef,  oatmeal,  and  tomato,  59; 
scraped,  271. 

Beef  essence,  bottled,  289;  broiled, 
290. 

Beef  fat,  167. 

Beef  juice,  271. 

Beef  olives,  56;  roll,  59;  stew,  54; 
tongue,  fresh,  61. 

Beef  tea,  bottled,  289;  broiled,  290; 
frozen,  290. 

Beet  sugar,  184. 

Beverage  recipes,  218-21:  choco- 
late, 219;  coffee,  cold  water,  218; 
coffee,  filtered,  218;  coffee,  hot 
water,  218;  coffee  and  choco- 
late, iced,  220;  fruit  punch,  220; 
grape  juice  (1),  220;  grape  juice 
(11),  221;  lemon  ginger  ale,  220; 
tea,  218;  tea,  iced,  219;  tea, 
Russian,  219. 

Beverages:  chocolate,  214;  cocoa, 
211,  214;  coffee,  211-13;  fruit 
drinks,  214;  tea,  211-13. 

Bibliography,  295-99. 

Bile,  the,  232. 

Biscuits,  cornmeal,  130. 

Black  bean  soup,  flavoring  for,  100. 

Boiled  frosting,  143;  leg  of  mutton, 
57 ;  macaroni  with  tomato  sauce, 
117;  rice  pudding,  193. 

Boston  baked  beans.  See  Baked 
beans. 


302 


INDEX 


Boston  cut,  the,  44. 

Boston  roast,  102. 

Bottled  beef  essence,  289;  beef  tea, 
289. 

Brains,  67;  a  la  Newburg,  67;  a  la 
Poulette,  67;  deviled,  67;  omelet, 
68;  salad,  68;  scrambled,  68. 

Braised  lambs'  hearts,  61 ;  beef,  55. 

Bran  muffins,  128. 

Bread,  baked,  and  cheese,  94;  corn- 
meal  and  wheat,  133;  crisp  corn, 
128;  nut,  131;  quick  raisin,  130; 
potato,  133;  rice,  134;  rolled  oats, 
133;  rye,  134;  spoon  corn,  130. 

Bread-making,  grains  used  for,  109; 
processes  of,  126. 

Bread  method  of  mixing  bread- 
stuffs,  123. 

Bread  pudding,  190. 

Breadstuff s,  19,  120;  methods  of 
mixing,  122,  123;  leavening 
agents,  123-26. 

Breakfast,  253,  254. 

Breakfast  cereals,  in;  malted,  112; 
used  in  other  ways,  113. 

Breast  feeding,  260,  261. 

Broiled  beef  essence,  290;  beef  tea, 
290. 

Broiling,  50. 

Broth,  clam,  81;  for  infants,  271. 

Brown  Betty,  191. 

Brown  Susan,  191. 

Buckwheat  griddle  cakes,  131. 

Butter,  peanut,  92;  as  ingredient 
of  flour-mixtures,  122;  used  in 
cooking,  167;  nut,  169;  fruit,  225. 

Butter  cake,  136. 

Butters,  nut,  or  margarines,  169. 

Cabbage,  and  rice,  157;  salad,  hot, 
174. 

Cake,  angel,  142;  apple  sauce,  194; 
butter,  136;  chocolate,  or  devil's 
food,  139;  chocolate  nougat,  138; 
date  kisses,  189;  Dutch  apple, 
196;  golden,  142;  Lady  Balti- 
more, 139;  marshmallow,  137; 
nut  loaf,  140;  sponge,  142;  wal- 
nut, 137- 

Cake  method  of  mixing  breadstuffs, 
123. 

Calcium  for  the  body,  23,  28,  146, 
247. 


Calorie,  heat-unit,  239,  240. 

Calves'  tongues  with  tomato  sauce, 
60. 

Camembert  cheese,  87. 

Canapes,  cheese  (1),  99;  cheese  (11), 
99;  oyster,  82. 

Candies:  cream  candy,  188;  fudge, 
188;  molasses  candy,  188;  Olym- 
pian cream,  188;  panocha,  187. 

Candy,  unwholesome  between 
meals,  234,  267,  275. 

Cane  sugar,  183,  184. 

Canning  of  fish,  71,  72. 

Caper  sauce,  66. 

Capers,  215. 

Caramel,  method  of  making,  186. 

Caramel,  Bavarian  cream,  206; 
frosting,  143;  sauce,  203. 

Caraway,  215. 

Carbohydrates,  18,  105. 

Carbon  in  foods,  18. 

Carrot  and  green  pepper  salad,  175. 

Carrot  and  orange  marmalade,  222. 

Cassareep,  217. 

Casserole  of  roe,  Maryland  style, 
68. 

Cassia,  215. 

Catchup,  217. 

Cauliflower  a  la  Hollandaise,  158. 

Cayenne,  216. 

Celery  ramekins,  158. 

Celery  seeds,  215. 

Cellulose,  20. 

Cereal,  meanings  of  the  term,  106. 

Cereal  grains.  See  Grains. 

Cereal  gruels  for  young  children, 
264. 

Cereal  recipes,  1 14-19:  baked  hom- 
iny, 116;  boiled  macaroni  with 
tomato  sauce,  117;  gnocchi  alia 
Romana,  118;  green  pea  and 
oatmeal  soup,  115;  macaroni 
loaf,  118;  macaroni  with  peppers, 
117;  oatmeal  and  spinach  soup, 
115;  oatmeal  pudding,  119;  oat- 
meal soup,  iia;  Pittsburgh  samp, 
119;  rice  ana  onion  soup,  115; 
rice  with  parsley  or  chives,  116; 
scalloped  rice,  116;  Spanish  pilaf, 
117;  Turkish  pilaf,  117. 

Cereals,  19;  breakfast,  in;  malted, 
112;  puffed,  112;  uncooked,  112; 
cooking  of,  1 13;  in  packages,  113; 


INDEX 


303 


breakfast,  used  in  other  ways, 
113;  relative  values  of,  as  pur- 
chased, 114;  proportions  for 
cooking,  114. 

Chambery  potatoes,  154. 

Charlotte  russe,  207. 

Cheese,  21;  food  value  of,  85;  com- 
position of,  85;  reasons  for  im- 
portance of,  in  diet,  85;  kinds,  86; 
method  of  making,  86;  ripening, 
86,  87;  digestion,  87,  88;  care  of, 
88;  use  of,  in  diet,  88,  89. 

Cheese  recipes,  93-99 :  baked  bread 
and  cheese,  94;  cheese  and  eggs, 
98;  cheese  canapes  (1),  99;  cheese 
canapes  (11),  99;  cheese  cro- 
quettes, 98;  cheese  filling,  96; 
cheese  jelly  salad,  179;  cheese 
patties,  99;  cheese  ramekin,  97; 
cheese  scallop,  98;  cheese  souffle, 
64,  94;  cheese  toast,  97;  corn, 
tomato,  and  cheese,  95;  cottage 
cheese  nut  loaf,  96;  fondue,  93; 
lima  bean  and  cheese  roast,  95; 
risotto,  97;  toasted  sandwich,  95; 
Welsh  rarebit,  93. 

Cherry  puffs,  198;  salad,  176. 

Chicken,  and  fowl,  how  to  dis- 
tinguish between,  51;  how  to 
dress,  51;  how  to  truss,  51,  52; 
use  of  the  giblets  for  gravy,  52. 

Chicken,  chartreuse,  65;  creamed, 
with  mushrooms,  62;  fricassee 
Creole,  63;  smothered,  63. 

Children,  young,  food  of,  263-67; 
good  food-habits  and  table  man- 
ners in,  to  be  formed  early,  265; 
diet  for,  at  twelve  months,  267; 
diet  for,  at  eighteen  months,  268; 
two  to  four  years  old,  simple 
menu  for,  269;  two  to  four  years 
old,  list  of  foods  allowed  to,  269, 
270.  See  Infants,  School-chil- 
dren. 

Chili  sauce,  228. 

Chipped  pears,  224. 

Chocolate,  as  a  beverage,  214;  prep- 
aration of,  for  the  table,  219. 

Chocolate,  sweet,  181. 

Chocolate  and  almond  pudding, 
202;  Bavarian  cream,  206;  bread 
pudding,  190;  cake,  139;  corn- 
starch pudding,    193;    hoovers, 


140;  nougat  cake,  203;  nut 
cookies,  281;  sauce,  203. 

Chow  chow,  227. 

Chowder,  clam,  81;  corn,  34-;  fish, 
77;  vegetable,  154. 

Chutney,  217;  recipe  for  making, 
228. 

Cinnamon,  spice,  215;  extract,  216. 

Clam,  broth,  81;  chowder,  81. 

Cleanliness,  kitchen,  7,  12-15;  of 
the  housekeeper,  16. 

Clove  extract,  217. 

Cloves,  216. 

Coal  range,  the,  10,  II. 

Cocoa,  harmful  ingredient  of,  211; 
method  of  preparation  for  mar- 
ket, 214;  method  of  making,  214. 

Cocoanut  oil,  169. 

Cod,  salted,  71. 

Coddled  egg,  271. 

Codfish,  salt,  balls,  79;  hash,  78. 

Coffee,  as  ingredient  of  flour- 
mixtures,  122;  place  of,  in  diet, 
211,  213;  harmful  ingredient  of, 
211;  method  of  preparation  for 
market,  213;  varieties  of,  213. 

Coffee,  cold  water,  218;  filtered,  218; 
hot  water,  218. 

Coffee  Bavarian  cream,  206; 
mousse,  207;  parfait,  209. 

Colds,  diet  in  case  of,  284. 

Composition  of  foods,  17-25.  See 
Fruits,  etc. 

Compote,  apple,  195. 

Concentrated  foods,  234. 

Condiments.  See  Pickles,  sauces, 
preserves. 

Conserve,  currant,  224;  plum  (i), 
224;  plum  (11),  225. 

Cookies,  278;  barley,  280;  chocolate 
nut,  281;  molasses,  279. 

Cooking  fats,  167. 

Corn,  no. 

Corn  and  potato  loaf,  156;  bread, 
crisp,  128;  bread,  spoon,  130; 
cake,  Rhode  Island,  127;  cakes, 
drop,  127;  chowder,  34;  dodger, 
121;  fritters,  Creole,  159;  meal 
and  wheat  bread,  133;  meal  bis- 
cuits, 130;  muffins,  129;  oysters, 
158;  pone,  127;  pudding  from 
fresh  corn,  159;  tomato,  and 
cheese,  95. 


304 


INDEX 


Corn  oil,  167,  168. 

Corned  beef  hash,  58. 

Cornmeal,  122. 

Cornstarch     pudding,     chocolate, 

193- 

Cottage  cheese  nut  loaf,  96;  ome- 
let, 38;  pudding,  194;  supper 
salad,  179. 

Cottonseed  oil,  167,  168. 

Cream,  angel,  208;  Bavarian,  205, 
206;  marshmallow,  137;  Olym- 
pian, 188;  Spanish,  205. 

Cream  candy,  188. 

Cream  of  tartar,  124. 

Creamed  chicken  with  mushrooms, 
62;  eggs  and  potato,  156;  pea- 
nuts and  rice,  104;  omelet,  39; 
sweetbreads,  brains,  or  roe,  67. 

Creamy  egg,  37. 

Creole  corn  fritters,  159;  sauce,  65. 

Crisp  corn  bread,  128. 

Croquettes,  65;  cheese,  98. 

Cucumber,  baked  ripe,  159. 

Cucumber  and  pineapple  salad, 
177. 

Currant  conserve,  224. 

Curry  powder,  216. 

Curry  sauce,  66. 

Custard,  baked,  36;  soft  or  boiled, 
36. 

Cuts  of  beef,  44-47;  digestibility 
and  nutritive  value  of  the  vari- 
ous, 48. 

Dairy  herds,  27. 

Date  kisses,  189;  pudding,  198. 

Delmonico  potatoes,  155. 

Dessert  recipes:  angel  cream,  208; 
apple  compote,  195;  apple  dump- 
ling, 195;  apple  porcupine,  197; 
apple  pudding,  196;  apple  sauce, 
197;  apple  sauce  cake,  194;  apple 
tapioca  or  sago,  197;  apricot 
sauce,  192;  baked  bananas  (1), 
189;  baked  bananas  (11),  190; 
Bavarian  cream,  205;  boiled  rice 
pudding,  193;  bread  and  butter 
pudding  with  whipped  cream, 
190;  bread  puddings,  190;  brown 
Betty,  191;  brown  Susan,  191; 
Charlotte  russe,  207;  cherry 
puffs,  198;  chocolate  and  almond 
pudding,   202;    chocolate  corn- 


starch pudding,  193;  coffee 
mousse,  207;  coffee  parfait,  209; 
cottage  pudding,  194;  date  kisses, 
189;  date  pudding,  198;  Dutch 
apple  cake,  196;  fig  pudding, 
201;  fig  toast,  189;  foamy  sauce, 
200;  fried  bananas,  189;  frozen 
orange  whip,  209;  fruit  pudding, 
205;  fruit  souffle,  208;  1-2-3  ice 
cream,  210;  India'n  pudding,  191; 
Indian  tapioca  pudding,  192; 
jellied  walnuts,  204;  Jerusalem 
pudding,  207;  lemon  jelly,  204; 
lemon  sauce,  194;  maple  mousse, 
209;  molasses  sauce,  206;  orange 
Bavaroise,  206;  orange  tapioca, 
198;  plum  pudding  without  eggs, 
201;  poor  man's  pudding,  193; 
prune  pudding,  199;  prune  whip 
(1),  199;  prune  whip  (11),  199; 
pudding  sauces,  202-04;  raisin 
pudding,  201;  rice  and  apricot 
pudding,  192;  rice  flummery,  192; 
Spanish  cream,  205;  splash,  208; 
steamed  suet  and  fruit  pudding, 
200;  vanilla  mousse,  209;  walnut 
ice,  210. 

Devil's  food,  138;  or  chocolate 
cake,  139;  filling  for,  139. 

Devonshire  sauce,  217. 

Dextrine,  105,  106. 

Diabetes,  food  for,  286. 

Diet,  varied,  24,  253;  a  sufficient, 
241-43;  recommendations  for 
low-cost,  248,  249;  for  3000  calo- 
ries, 251;  for  child  at  twelve 
months,  267 ;  for  child  at  eighteen 
months,  268;  in  colds,  284;  in 
digestive  troubles,  285. 

Dietary  standards,  243. 

Diets,  typical  invalid,  282,  283; 
recipes  for  invalid,  287-92. 

Digestion,  and  fats,  164;  the  or- 
gans and  the  process  of,  229-33; 
influences  for  good,  233,  234. 

Digestive  troubles,  diet  in  case  of, 
285. 

Dinner,  255-57;  combinations  suit- 
able for,  257-59. 

Dishwashing,  15. 

Dough,  soft,  121;  stiff,  121. 

Dressing,  for  turkey,  66;  for  wild 
game,  66. 


INDEX 


305 


Dressing  a  chicken,  51. 
Dressings,  salad.  See  Salad  dress- 
ings. 
Dried  bean  soup,  100. 
Drop  corn  cakes,  127;  ginger  cakes, 

135- 
Drops,  sponge,  140. 
Duck,  mock,  55. 
Dumpling,  apple,  195. 
Dutch  apple  cake,  196. 
Dutch  cheese,  87. 

Egg  and  milk  recipes,  34-41.  See 
Milk. 

Egg  lemonade,  288. 

Eggnogs,  290. 

Eggplant,  fried,  159;  scalloped, 
159;  stuffed,  160. 

Eggs,  protein  in,  21,  26;  food  value 
of.  32,  33;  how  to  cook,  33; 
boiled,  33;  poached,  33;  care  of, 
33;  how  to  preserve,  33;  as  in- 
gredient of  flour  mixtures,  122. 

Eggs,  cheese  and,  98;  coddled, 
271;  creamed,  and  potato,  156; 
creamy,  37;  in  mashed  potato, 
41;  poached,  37;  scalloped,  with 
cottage  cheese,  38;  scrambled, 
with  asparagus,  37;  scrambled, 
with  cottage  cheese,  38;  scram- 
bled, with  peas,  37;  scrambled, 
with  tomato,  37.  See  Omelet. 

Electric  stove,  the,  11. 

Elements,  17. 

Enamel-ware,  14. 

Enzymes,  231,  232. 

Extracts,  flavoring,  216,  217. 

Fairy  gingerbread,  135. 

Farina  cream  soup,  35. 

Farinaceous  puddings,  291. 

Farmers'  Bulletins,  the,  5. 

Fats,  20;  the  chief  source  of  heat 
and  energy  in  the  body,  164;  di- 
gestibility of,  164;  quantity  used 
in  United  States,  165;  need  to 
save,  165;  nature  of,  165;  use  of, 
166;  table,  167;  cooking,  167; 
animal,  167;  lard,  167;  suet,  167; 
mutton,  167;  of  poultry,  167; 
oleomargarine,  168;  vegetable, 
168;  nut  butters  or  margarines, 
169;  place  of,  in  the  diet,  169; 


ways  of  avoiding  waste  of,  170; 

rendering  of,  170;  care  of,  170; 

flavoring  of,    170;   savory,    171; 

digestibility  of,  234;  heat  value 

of,  240. 
Fat-soluble  A,  24,  147,  148. 
Fennel,  215. 

Ferments,    organized,    230;    unor- 
ganized, 231. 
Fevers,  food  for,  285. 
Fig  filling,  137;  pudding,  201 ;  toast, 

189. 
Fillet,  of  beef,  46;  of  fish,  stuffed 

with  oysters,  74. 
Filling,   139;  cheese,  96;  fig,   137; 

for  devil's  food,  139;  sour-cream, 

.137. 

Finnan  haddie,  80;  savory,  80; 
Scottish,  79. 

Fireless  cookers,  11. 

Fish,  21;  comparative  use  of,  in 
United  States  and  in  Europe,  69; 
composition  of,  69;  groups  of,  69, 
70;  buying,  70;  the  preserving  of, 
71 ;  frozen,  71 ;  salted,  71 ;  canned, 
71,  72;  care  of,  72;  ways  of 
cooking,  72,  73. 

Fish  recipes:  baked  fish,  73;  clam 
broth,  81;  clam  chowder,  81; 
codfish  balls,  79;  codfish  (salt) 
hash,  78;  fillets  of  fish,  stuffed 
with  oysters,  74;  fish  a  la  cieme, 
79;  fish  chowder,  77;  haddock  a 
la  Newton,  75;  haddock  baked 
in  cheese  sauce,  74;  halibut, 
baked,  with  tomato  sauce,  73; 
halibut,  molded,  75;  kedgeree, 
76;  finnan  haddie,  80;  finnan 
haddie,  savory,  80;  finnan  haddie, 
Scottish,  79;  oyster  canapes,  82; 
oysters,  fairy  roast,  82;  oysters, 
fried,  82;  oysters,  jellied,  83; 
oysters,  panned,  82;  oysters, 
sauted,  83;  potato  shredded  fish 
souffle,  78;  salmon  timbale  or 
loaf,  76;  scalloped  fish,  76;  scal- 
lops (1),  83;  scallops  (11),  83; 
scallops,  stewed,  83;  scrod,  to 
cook,  74;  shrimp  wiggle,  77; 
smelts,  baked,  84;  smelts,  fried, 
84;  whitebait,  84. 

Flavoring  herbs,  spices,  and  ex- 
tracts, 215-17. 


306 


INDEX 


Flaxseed  lemonade,  288. 

Flour,  kinds  of,  109;  grades  of,  120, 
121;  graham,  121;  entire  wheat, 
121. 

Flour-mills,  108. 

Flour  mixtures,  121;  proportions 
for,  121;  effect  of  ingredients  on, 
122. 

Fluid  diet,  282. 

Flummery,  rice,  192. 

Foamy  sauce,  200. 

Fondue,  93. 

Food,  the  importance  of,  1-5; 
health  dependent  on,  4;  habits 
concerning,  4,  5;  care  of,  14,  15; 
composition  of,  17-25;  definition 
of,  17;  energy-producing^  19; 
containing  starch,  19;  containing 
sugar,  19;  heat-producing,  20; 
containing  nitrogen,  21;  tissue- 
producing,  21;  containing  min- 
eral matter,  22-24;  fiye  classes 
of,  26;  the  process  of  utilization 
of,  one  of  combustion,  229;  di- 
gestion of,  229-34;  concentrated, 
234;  absorption  of,  234;  uses  of, 
in  the  body,  235 ;  wastes  in  proc- 
ess of  utilization  of,  235,  236; 
diagram  of  changes  undergone 
by,  in  the  body,  237;  fuel,  238, 
239;  fuel  values  of,  240,  241; 
building  material  supplied  by, 
243-47;  c°st  of,  248,  249;  groups 
of,  based  on  chemical  composi- 
tion, 250;  division  of,  into  meals, 
251,  252;  for  infants  and  young 
children,  260-72;  list  of  articles 
of,  allowed  a  child  two  to  four 
years  old,  269,  270;  recipes  for 
infant,  271,  272;  good  supply 
necessary  for  school-children, 
273;  the  right,  for  school-chil- 
dren, 274;  vagaries  in,  harmful, 
275;  typical  invalid  diets,  282, 
283;  serving  of,  to  invalids,  283; 
requirement  of,  in  sickness,  283, 
284;  for  slight  illnesses,  284,  285; 
for  special  diseases,  285-87. 

Fowl.  See  Chicken. 

French  omelet,  40. 

Fricassee,  chicken,  Creole,  63. 

Fricasseed  rabbit,  63. 

Fried  bananas,  189;  eggplant,  159; 


oysters  —  fancy  roast,  82;  salt 
pork,  58;  smelts,  84. 

"Frikasie,"  a,  63. 

Fritters,  Creole  corn,  159. 

Frosting,  boiled,  143;  caramel,  143; 
maple  sugar,  136;  uncooked,  144. 

Frosting  sauce,  202. 

Frozen  beef  tea,  290;  orange  whip, 
209. 

Fruit  butter,  225;  pudding,  205; 
punch,  220;  salads,  see  Salad; 
souffle,  208. 

Fruit  drinks,  214. 

Fruit  sugar,  185. 

Fruits,  composition  of,  22-24,  *46; 
a  source  of  minerals,  23,  24,  146; 
a  source  of  vitamines,  24,  147, 
148;  consumption  of,  should  be 
increased,  145;  ways  of  grouping, 
148;  uses  of,  149,  152;  prepara- 
tion of  pectin  for  jellying  of,  152, 
153;  sugar  in,  185. 

Fudge,  188. 

Fuel,  need  of,  for  the  body,  238; 
provided  by  food,  238,  239. 

Game,  wild,  dressing,  66. 

Garlic,  215. 

Gas  stove,  the,  11. 

Gastric  juice,  231. 

German  horseradish  sauce,  57. 

Giblet  gravy,  62. 

Ginger,  216. 

Ginger  ale,  lemon,  220. 

Ginger  ale  salad,  177. 

Gingerbread,  fairy,  135;  old-fash- 
ioned soft,  135;  soft,  135. 

Ginger  cakes,  drop,  135. 

Ginger  snaps,  279. 

Glucose,  185. 

Gluten,  107. 

Gnocchi  alia  Romana,  118. 

Golden  cake,  142;  sauce,  202. 

Gout,  food  for,  287. 

Graham  flour,  121. 

Grain,  structure  of  the  kernels  of, 
106,  107. 

Grains,  cereal,  107,  108;  milling, 
108;  used  for  bread-making,  109; 
barley,  109,  no;  corn,  no;  oats, 
no;  rice,  111;  rye,  in.  See 
Cereals. 

Grape  juice,  220, 221. 


INDEX 


307 


Grape  marmalade,  221;  preserves, 

221. 
Grapes,  spiced,  221. 
Green   peppers  stuffed   with   cow 

peas,  101. 
Green  tomato  marmalade,  223. 
Griddle  cakes,  buckwheat,  131. 
Griddle  cakes,  difficult  to  digest, 

253. 
Grilled  muffins,  132. 
Grinding,  108. 
Gruels,  cereal,  for  young  children, 

264;  recipes  for,  272,  290. 

Habits,  food,  4,  5. 

Haddock,  a  la  Newton,  75;  baked 

in  cheese  sauce,  74. 
Halibut,  baked,  with  tomato  sauce, 

73;  molded,  75. 
Hamburg  steak,  56. 
Hard  sauce,  202. 
Harvey  sauce,  217. 
Hash,  corned  beef,  58;  salt  codfish, 

78;  vegetable,  155. 
Health  dependent  on  food,  4. 
Hearts,  lambs',  braised,  61. 
Heat,  unit  of,  the  calorie,  239,  240. 
Herbs,  flavoring,  215. 
Hind  shin,  the,  47. 
Hindu  salad,  176. 
Hoe-cake,  121. 
Hollandaise  sauce,  158. 
Holt,  Dr.,  Care  of  the  Baby,  262. 
Hominy,    112;   baked,    116;   cake, 

128;  puffs,  127. 
Honey,  185. 

Hoovers,  chocolate,  140. 
Horseradish  sauce,  German,  57. 
Housekeeper,  the  responsibility  of, 

1,  2. 
Housekeeping,   the  profession  of, 

2-4. 

Ice  cream,  1-2-3,  210. 

Iced  coffee  and  chocolate,  220;  tea, 
219. 

Indian  pudding,  191;  tapioca  pud- 
ding, 192. 

Infants,  mother's  milk  for,  260, 
261;  modified  milk  for,  261,  262; 
other  foods  for,  262;  regular 
feeding  hours  for,  263;  recipes  for 
foods  for,  271, 272.  See  Children. 


Intestine,  small  and  large,  232,  233. 

Invalid  diets,  recipes  for,  287-92: 
bottled  beef  essence,  289;  bottled 
beef  tea,  289;  broiled  beef  es- 
sence, 290;  broiled  beef  tea,  290; 
egg  lemonade,  288;  eggnogs,  290; 
farinaceous  puddings,  291;  flax- 
seed lemonade,  288;  frozen  beef 
tea,  290;  gruels,  290;  Irish  moss 
blanc  mange,  292;  Irish  moss 
lemonade,  289;  jellies,  292;  ku- 
myss,  289;  lemon  whey,  288; 
lemonade,  288;  syrup  for  fruit 
beverages,  288;  tapioca  pud- 
dings, 291;  toast  water,  287. 

Invalids,  typical  diets  for,  282,  283; 
serving  of  food  to,  283;  food  re- 
quirement of,  283,  284. 

Invert  sugar,  185. 

Irish  moss  blanc  mange,  292; 
lemonade,  289. 

Iron,  needed  in  the  body,  23,  246; 
portions  containing  two  milli- 
grams, 246,  247. 

Jam,  peach,  and  marmalade,  222. 
Japanese  salad,  178. 
Jellied  oysters,  83;  walnuts,  204. 
Jelly,  for  invalids,  292;  lemon,  204; 

orange    Bavaroise,    206;    quince 

and     cranberry,     225;     tomato 

salad,  176. 
Jellying,  preparation  of  pectin  for, 

152,  153. 
Jerusalem  pudding,  207. 
Jumbles,  peanut  butter,  280. 
Junket,  272. 

Kedgeree,  76. 

Kentucky  potatoes,  154. 

Kerley,  Dr.,  Short  Talks  with 
Young  Mothers,  262. 

Kernels,  structure  of,  106,  107. 

Ketchup.  See  Catchup. 

Kisses,  date,  189. 

Kitchen,  skilled  labor  in,  6;  the  old- 
fashioned,  7;  plan  of,  7-9;  equip- 
ment of,  10-16. 

Kumyss,  289. 


Labor-saving      devices      in 

kitchen,  10. 
Lady  Baltimore  cake,  139. 


the 


308 


INDEX 


Lamb,  breast  of,  roast,  57. 

Lambs'  hearts,  braised,  61. 

Lard,  167. 

Leavening  agents,  123-26. 

Legumes,  89-92.  See  Bean(s), 
Pea(s),  Pulses. 

Legumes,  recipes  for,  99-104: 
baked  bean  soup,  101;  Boston 
roast,  102;  creamed  peanuts  and 
rice,  104;  dried  bean  soup,  100; 
green  peppers  stuffed  with  cow- 
peas,  101;  lentil  loaf,  101;  lentil 
or  split-pea  soup,  99;  pecan  nut 
loaf,  white  sauce,  102;  rice  and 
nut  loaf,  103;  vegetable  roast, 
103. 

Lemon  bread  pudding,  190;  ginger 
ale,  220;  jelly,  204;  sauce,  194; 
whey,  288. 

Lemon  extract,  217. 

Lemonade,  288;  egg,  288;  flaxseed, 
288;  Irish  moss,  289. 

Lentil  loaf,  101 ;  or  split-pea  soup, 
99. 

Liberty  muffins,  128. 

Light  or  convalescent  diet,  283. 

Lima  bean  and  cheese  roast,  95. 

Limewater,  261,  272. 

Liver,  function  of  the,  230. 

Loaf,  asparagus,  157;  corn  and  po- 
tato, 156;  cottage  cheese  nut,  96; 
lentil,  101;  macaroni,  118;  pecan 
nut,  white  sauce,  102;  prune, 
131;  rice  and  nut,  103;  salmon, 
76. 

Loin,  the,  46. 

Lunch,  school  and  college,  277. 

Lunch-box,  the  planning  of  the, 
276;  recipes  for  the,  278-81. 

Luncheon,  254,  255. 

Lungs,  function  of  the,  230. 

Macaroni,  boiled,  with  tomato 
sauce,  117;  with  peppers,  117. 

Macaroons,  nut,  141;  Swedish,  141. 

Mace,  216. 

Magnesium  in  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, 24. 

Malt,  112. 

Malt  sugar,  185. 

Malted  breakfast  foods,  1 12. 

Maltose,  106. 

Maple  mousse,  209. 


Maple  sugar,  183. 

Maple  sugar  frosting,  136. 

Margarines,  nut,  169. 

Marguerites,  141. 

Marjoram,  215. 

Marmalade,  carrot  and  orange, 
222;  grape,  221;  green  tomato, 
223;  orange,  222;  peach  jam  and, 
222. 

Marshmallow  cake,  137;  cream  or 
paste,  137. 

Mastication,  proper,  importance  of, 
231,  233. 

Meals,  division  of  food  into,  251, 
252;  regularity  of  hours  of,  de- 
sirable, 252 ;  variety  in,  essential, 
252,  253.  See  Breakfast,  etc. 

Measures,  a  table  of,  293. 

Meat,  21;  cost  of,  42;  composition 
of,  42,  43;  tough  and  tender,  43, 
44;  ways  of  cooking,  48;  soup- 
making,  48,  49;  roasting  and 
broiling,  49,  50;  stewing,  50. 

Meat  recipes,  53-68. 

Meat  ball  with  horseradish  sauce, 
56;  pie,  rice,  60;  scalloped,  59. 

Menu,  simple,  for  child  two  to  four 
years  old,  269;  for  the  school 
lunch-box,  278. 

Menus,  the  making  of,  248-59. 

Milk,  protein  in,  21,  26,  27,  29; 
calcium  in,  22,  23,  28;  food  value 
of,  27-29;  a  "protective  food," 
27;  sugar  of,  28,  184,  185;  vita- 
mines  in,  28;  price  of,  29;  use  of, 
in  cooking,  30;  care  of,  30-32; 
grades  of,  30,  31 ;  pasteurized,  31 ; 
sterilized,  31,  32;  care  of  bottles 
and  other  utensils  used  for,  32; 
skimmed,  32 ;  mother's  and  modi- 
fied, for  infants,  260-63. 

Milk  and  egg  recipes,  34-41 :  baked 
custard,  36;  corn  chowder,  34; 
cottage  cheese  omelet,  38;  cream 
of  cottage  cheese  soup,  35 ;  cream 
soups,  35;  creamed  omelet,  39; 
creamy  egg,  37;  eggs  in  mashed 
potato,  41;  farina  cream  soup, 
35;  French  omelet,  40;  hearty 
omelet,  40;  light  omelet,  39;  ome- 
let souffle,  39;  poached  egg,  37; 
potage  a  la  reine,  35;  scalloped 
eggs   with    cottage  cheese,   38; 


INDEX 


309 


scrambled  eggs  with  asparagus, 
37;  scrambled  eggs  with  cottage 
cheese,  38;  scrambled  eggs  with 
peas,  37;  scrambled  eggs  with 
tomato,  37;  soft  or  boiled  cus- 
tard, 36;  spinach  omelet,  40. 

Mills  and  milling,  108. 

Mince  meat,  tomato,  223. 

Mineral  matter  in  food,  22-24, 146, 

Mint,  215. 

Mixed  spices,  196,  279. 

Mock  duck,  55. 

Molasses  candy,  188;  cookies,  279; 
sauce,  196. 

Mold,  of  peas  or  beans,  160;  of 
spinach,  161. 

Mother's  scalloped  potatoes,  155. 

Mousse,  coffee,  207;  maple,  209; 
vanilla,  209. 

Mouth,  the,  230. 

Muffin,  bread,  and  cake  recipes, 
127-44:  angel  cake,  142;  barley 
and  rice  flour  muffins,  129;  boiled 
frosting,  143;  bran  muffins,  128; 
buckwheat  griddle  cakes,  131; 
butter  cake,  136;  caramel  frost- 
ing, 143;  chocolate  cake,  or 
devil's  food,  139;  chocolate  hoov- 
ers, 140;  chocolate  nougat  cake, 
139;  cornmeal  and  wheat  bread, 
133;  cornmeal  biscuits,  130;  corn 
muffins,  129;  corn  pone,  127; 
crisp  corn  bread,  128;  devil's 
food,  138;  drop  corn  cakes,  127; 
drop  ginger  cakes,  135;  fairy 
gingerbread,  135;  fig  filling,  137; 
filling,  139;  filling  for  devil's  food, 
139;  golden  cake,  142;  grilled 
muffins,  132;  hominy  puffs,  127; 
Lady  Baltimore  cake,  139;  lib- 
erty muffins,  128;  maple  sugar 
frosting,  136;  marguerites,  141; 
marshmallow  cake,  137;  marsh - 
mallow  cream  or  paste,  137;  nut 
bread,  131;  nut  loaf  cake,  140; 
nut  macaroons,  141;  old-fash- 
ioned soft  gingerbread,  135;  pis- 
tachio paste,  138;  potato  bread, 
133;  prune  loaf,  131 ;  quick  raisin 
bread,  130;  raised  muffins,  132; 
raised  waffles,  132;  Rhode  Island 
corn  cake,  127;  rice  bread,  134; 


rice  or  hominy  cake,  128;  rolled 
oats  bread,  133;  rye  bread,  134; 
rye  muffins,  129;  soft  ginger- 
bread, 135;  sour-cream  filling, 
137;  sponge  cake,  142;  sponge 
drops,  140;  spoon  corn  bread, 
130;  Swedish  macaroons,  141; 
uncooked  frosting,  144;  walnut 
cake,  137. 

Muffin  method  of  mixing  bread- 
stuffs,  122. 

Mush,  108,  264. 

Mustard,  seeds,  216;  prepared,  216. 

Mustard  pickle,  227. 

Mutton,  leg  of,  boiled,  57;  stew, 

57- 
Mutton  fat,  167. 

New  York  or  Philadelphia  cut,  the, 

44,  45- 

Nitrogen  in  food,  21,  244,  245. 

Nursing  mothers,  suggestions  for, 
260,  261. 

Nut  bread,  131;  loaf,  cottage 
cheese,  96;  (pecan)  loaf,  white 
sauce,  102;  loaf  cake,  140;  loaf 
and  rice,  103;  macaroons,  141. 

Nut  butter,  and  nut  butters  or 
margarines,  169. 

Nutmeg,  216. 

Nutrition,  an  exact  science,  5. 

Nuts,  21,  92,  93. 

Oatmeal,  and  spinach  soup,  115; 
beef,  and  tomato,  59;  green  pea 
and,  soup,  115;  soup,  114. 

Oats,  no;  rolled,  112. 

Oil,  salad,  167;  olive,  167,  168;  cot- 
tonseed, 167,  168;  corn,  167,  168; 
peanut,  169;  cocoanut,  169;  from 
other,  seeds,  169. 

Oil  pickles,  226. 

Oleomargarine,  168. 

Olive  oil,  167,  168. 

Olives,  beef,  56. 

Olympian  cream,  188. 

Omelet,  cottage  cheese,  38; 
creamed,  39;  French,  40;  a 
hearty,  40;  light,  39;  souffle,  39; 
spinach,  40;  sweetbreads,  brains, 
or  roe,  68. 

Onion  and  rice  soup,  115. 

Orange  and  grape  salad,  178;  Bava- 


3io 


INDEX 


roise,     206;     marmalade,     222; 

whip,  frozen,  209. 
Orange  extract,  217. 
Orange  juice,  for  young  children, 

262. 
Organized  ferments,  230. 
Organs  of  digestion,  229-33. 
Oyster  canapes,  82;  salad,  180. 
Oysters,  corn,  158;  fancy  roast,  82; 

fried,  82;  jellied,  83;  panned,  82; 

sauted,  83. 

Panned  oysters,  82. 
Panocha,  187. 
Paprika,  216. 

Paste,     marshmallow,     137;     pis- 
tachio, 138. 
Pasteurization,  31. 
Pastry  or  baking-powder  method 

of  mixing  breadstuff  s,  123. 
Patties,  cheese,  99. 
Pea  (green),  and  oatmeal  soup,  115; 

salad,  175;  souffle,  160. 
Peach  and  ripe  olive  salad,   178; 

jam  and  marmalade,  222. 
Peanut,  the,  89,  90,  92. 
Peanut  butter,  92;  oil,  169. 
Peanut  butter  jumbles,  280. 
Peanuts  and  rice,  creamed,  104. 
Pear  salad,  178. 
Pears,  chipped,  224. 
Peas,  21. 

Peas,  mold  of,  160. 
Pecan  nut  loaf,  white  sauce,  102. 
Pectin,  152,  153. 
Pepper  hash,  227. 
Peppermint  extract,  217. 
Peppers,  216. 
Peppers,  green,  stuffed  and  baked, 

161 ;  green,  stuffed  with  cow  peas, 

101. 
Pepsin,  231. 
Phosphorus,  needed  in  the  body, 

246. 
Pickle,  mustard,  227. 
Pickles,  217;  oil,  226;  sweet,  226. 
Pickling,  226-28. 
Pie,  rice  meat,  60;  shepherd's,  60. 
Pigs  in  clover,  62. 
Pilaf,  Spanish,  117;  Turkish,  1 17. 
Pistachio  paste,  138. 
Pittsburgh  samp,  119. 
Plain  stew,  54. 


Plum  conserve,  224,  225;  pudding 
without  eggs,  201. 

Poached  egg,  37. 

Pone,  corn,  127. 

Poor  man's  pudding,  193. 

Porcupine,  apple,  197. 

Pork,  52. 

Pork,  salt,  fried,  58;  with  baked 
beans,  97. 

Potage  a  la  reine,  35. 

Potassium,  need  of,  for  functioning 
of  the  body,  24;  in  fruit  and  vege- 
tables, 146. 

Potato,  as  staple  of  diet,  145; 
starch  in,  146;  baked,  149. 

Potato,  bread,  133;  loaf,  corn  and, 
156;  salad,  175;  shredded  fish 
souffle,  78;  soup,  154. 

Potatoes,  chambery,  154;  creamed 
eggs  and,  156;  Delmonico,  155; 
goldenrod,  156;  Kentucky,  154; 
mashed  —  company  style,  154; 
mashed,  eggs  in,  41;  mother's 
scalloped,  155;  pimento,  baked 
cheese,  156;  stuffed  baked,  155. 

Poultry,  fat  of,  167.  See  Chicken. 

Poultry  stuffing,  herbs  used  in,  215. 

Preserves:  apple  ginger,  224;  carrot 
and  orange  marmalade,  222; 
chipped  pears,  224;  currant  con- 
serve, 224;  fruit  butter,  225; 
grape  marmalade,  221;  grape 
preserves,  221;  green  tomato 
marmalade,  223;  orange  marma- 
lade, 222;  peach  jam  and  mar- 
malade, 222;  plum  conserve  (1), 
22|;  plum  conserve  (11),  225; 
quince  and  cranberry  jelly,  225; 
raspberry  bar-le-duc,  225;  spiced 
grapes,  221;  tomato  mince  meat, 
223;  tomato  preserve,  223. 

Protein,  21;  foods  containing,  26, 
244;  necessary  quantity  of,  244, 
245;  one  half  ounce  portions  of, 
245,  246. 

Prune  juice,  272. 

Prune  loaf,  131;  pudding,  199; 
whip  (1),  199;  whip  (11),  199. 

Pudding,  apple,  196;  apple  tapioca 
or  sago,  197;  boiled  rice,  193; 
bread  and  butter,  with  whipped 
cream,  190;  bread,  190;  brown 
Betty,  191;  brown  Susan,  191; 


INDEX 


3ii 


cherry  puffs,  198;  chocolate  and 
almond,  202;  chocolate  corn- 
starch, 193;  corn,  from  fresh 
corn,  159;  cottage,  194;  date, 
198;  farinaceous,  for  invalids, 
'291;  fig,  201;  fruit,  205;  Indian, 
191;  Indian  tapioca,  192;  Jeru- 
salem, 207;  oatmeal,  119;  orange 
tapioca,  198;  plum,  without  eggs, 
201 J  poor  man's,  193;  prune,  199; 
raisin,  201;  rice  and  apricot,  192; 
rice  flummery,  192;  steamed  suet 
and  fruit,  200;  tapioca,  for  in- 
valids, 291. 

Pudding  sauce,  brown  sugar,  203; 
caramel,  203;  chocolate,  203; 
frosting,  202;  golden,  202;  hard, 
202;  raisin,  203;  vanilla,  203. 

Puffed  cereals,  112. 

Puffs,  cherry,  198;  hominy,  127. 

Pulses,  89-92:  value  as  food,  89; 
the  soy  bean  and  the  peanut,  89, 
90,  92;  how  to  use,  90;  baked 
beans,  90-92;  ways  of  serving 
boiled,  91.  See  Legumes. 

Punch,  fruit,  220. 

Quarters  of  beef,  45. 
Quick  raisin  bread,  130. 
Quince  and  cranberry  jelly,  225. 

Rabbit,  fricasseed,  63. 

Raised  muffins,  132;  waffles,  132. 

Raisin  bread,  quick,  130;  pudding, 
201 ;  sauce,  203. 

Ramekin,  celery,  158;  cheese,  97. 

Rarebit,  Welsh,  93. 

Raspberry  bar-le-duc,  225. 

Refrigerator,  the,  9,  12,  13. 

Rendering  of  fats,  170. 

Rennin,  231. 

Rheumatism,  food  for,  287. 

Rhode  Island  corn  cake,  127. 

Rice,  in. 

Rice,  and  apricot  pudding,  192; 
and  barley  flour  muffins,  129; 
and  nut  loaf,  103;  and  onion 
soup,  115;  and  peanuts,  creamed, 
104;  bread,  134;  cabbage  and, 
157;  cakes,  128;  flummery,  192; 
meat  pie,  60;  pudding,  boiled, 
193;  scalloped,  116;  with  parsley 
or  chives,  116. 


Risotto,  97. 

Roasting,  49. 

Roe,  shad  or  other,  67;  a  la  New- 
burg,  67;  a  la  Poulette,  67; 
broiled,  68;  creamed,  67;  en 
•  casserole,  Maryland  style,  68; 
omelet,  68;  salad,  68. 

Roll,  beef,  59. 

Rolled  oats,  112. 

Rolled  oats  and  peanut  butter 
cookies,  280;  bread,  133;  wafers, 
281. 

Roquefort  cheese,  86. 

Round,  the,  47. 

Rump,  the,  46. 

Russian  tea,  219. 

Rye,  in. 

Rye  bread,  134;  muffins,  129. 

Saffron,  215. 

Sage,  215. 

Sago,  106. 

Sago,  apple,  197. 

Salad,  carrot  and  green  pepper, 
175;  cheese  jelly,  179;  cherry, 
176;  cottage  cheese,  179;  cottage 
cheese  supper,  179;  cucumber 
and  pineapple,  177;  ginger  ale, 
177;  hot  cabbage,  174;  green 
bean  and  pickled  beet,  175; 
Hindu,  176;  Japanese,  178;  or- 
ange and  grape,  178;  oyster,  180; 
pea,  175;  peach  and  ripe  olive, 
178;  pear,  178;  potato,  175;  to- 
mato salad  jelly,  176;  trans- 
Mississippi  Exposition,  178. 

Salad,  sweetbreads,  brains,  or  roe, 
68. 

Salad  dressing,  boiled,  172;  boiled, 
for  fruit  salad,  174;  California 
mayonnaise,  172;  cream,  173; 
French,  172;  mayonnaise,  173; 
Russian,  174. 

Salad  oil,  167. 

Salads,  chicken  and  lobster,  diffi- 
cult to  digest,  253. 

Salisbury  steak,  56. 

Saliva,  the,  230. 

Salmon,  canned,  71. 

Salmon  timbale  or  loaf,  76. 

Salt,  23. 

Salt  codfish  balls,  79;  hash,  78. 

Salt  fish,  71. 


312 


INDEX 


Salt  pork,  fried,  58;  with  baked 
beans,  92. 

Samp,  Pittsburgh,  119. 

Sandwich,  toasted,  95. 

Sardines,  72. 

Sauces:  apple,  197;  foamy,  200; 
Hollandaise,  158;  lemon,  194; 
molasses,  196. 

Sauces  for  meats,  fish,  etc.: 
brown,  103;  caper,  66;  cheese,  74; 
cream,  162;  Creole,  65;  curry,  66; 
for  molded  halibut,  73;  tomato, 
73,  78,  102,  104,  118;  white,  102. 

Sauces,  pudding:  brown  sugar,  203; 
caramel,  203;  chocolate,  203; 
frosting,  202;  golden,  202;  hard, 
202;  raisin,  203;  vanilla,  203. 

Sauces,  relishes:  cassareep,  217; 
catchup,  217;  chili  sauce,  228; 
chutney,  217;  Devonshire  sauce, 
217;  Harvey  sauce,  217;  soy 
sauce,  217;  Tabasco  sauce,  217; 
walnut  catchup,  217;  Worces- 
tershire sauce,  217. 

Sauted  oysters,  83. 

Savory,  summer,  215. 

Savory  fats,  171. 

Savory  finnan  haddie,  80. 

Scallop,  cheese,  98. 

Scalloped  eggplant,  159;  eggs  with 
cottage  cheese,  38;  fish,  76;  green 
tomatoes,  162;  meat,  59;  pota- 
toes, mother's,  155;  rice,  116. 

Scallops  (1),  83;  (11),  83;  stewed,  83. 

School-children,  good  supply  of 
food  necessary  for,  273;  signs  of 
good  health  in,  273;  the  right 
food  for,  274;  vagaries  in  food  of, 
harmful,  275;  the  planning  of 
the  lunch-box  for,  276. 

Scottish  fancies  or  rolled  oats 
wafers,  281. 

Scottish  finnan  haddie,  79. 

Scrambled  brains,  68,  eggs,  with 
asparagus,  37 ;  eggs,  with  cottage 
cheese,  38;  eggs,  with  peas,  37; 
eggs,  with  tomato,  37. 

Scrod,  to  cook,  74. 

Shad  or  other  roe.  See  Roe. 

Shellfish.  See  _  Clam(s),  oyster (s), 
scallops,  shrimp. 

Shepherd's  pie,  60. 

Shrimp  wiggle,  77. 


Sides  of  beef,  44. 

Sink,  the,  9,  13,  14. 

Smelts,  baked,  84;  fried,  84. 

Smith,  Dr.  Richard,  The  Baby's 
First  Two  Years,  262. 

Smothered  chicken,  63. 

Soda,  baking,  124. 

Sodium,  need  of,  in  the  body,  23; 
in  fruit  and  vegetables,  146. 

Soft  gingerbread,  135;  old-fash- 
ioned gingerbread,  135. 

Soft  or  semi-solid  diet,  283. 

Souffle,  64;  cheese,  64,  94;  fruit, 
208;  omelet,  39;  pea,  160;  potato 
shredded  fish,  78;  squash,  162. 

Soup,  baked  bean,  101;  black  and 
white  bean,  flavoring  for,  100; 
dried  bean,  100;  cheese,  34; 
cream,  34;  cream  of  cottage 
cheese,  35;  farina  cream,  35; 
green  pea  and  oatmeal,  115;  len- 
til and  split  pea,  99;  mashed 
beans  as  basis  for,  91;  oatmeal, 
114;  oatmeal  and  spinach,  115; 
peanut,  34;  potage  a  la  reine,  35; 
potato,  154;  rice  and  onion,  115; 
tomato,  153;  vegetable,  153; 
wheat  cream,  36. 

Soup-making  from  meat,  48,  49. 

Soup  stock,  53;  to  clarify,  53. 

Sour-cream  filling,  137. 

Soy  bean,  89,  90. 

Soy  sauce,  217. 

Spanish  cream,  205;  pilaf,  117. 

Sparerib,  stuffed,  58. 

Spiced  grapes,  221. 

Spices,  mixed,  196,  279;  use  of  the 
various,  215,  216;  as  ingredient 
of  flour-mixtures,  122. 

Spinach,  mold  of,  161 ;  oatmeal  and, 
soup,  115;  omelet,  40. 

Splash,  208. 

Split-pea  soup,  99. 

Sponge  cake,  142;  drops,  140. 

Spoon  corn  bread,  130. 

Squash  souffle,  162. 

Starch,  19;  changes  undergone  by, 
105,  106;  source  of,  106;  in  the 
potato,  146;  converted  into 
sugar,  in  the  body,  231,  232. 

Steak,  Hamburg,  56;  Salisbury, 
56. 

Steaks,  46. 


INDEX 


313 


Steamed  suet  and  fruit  pudding, 

200. 
Sterilization,  31,  32. 
Stew,  beef,  54;  mutton,  57;  plain, 

Stewing,  50. 

Stomach,  action  of  the,  231. 

Stoves,  kinds  of,  10,  II;  care  of,  II, 
12. 

Stuffed  and  baked  green  peppers, 
161;  baked  potatoes,  155;  egg- 
plant, 160;  sparerib,  58. 

Stuffing,  55;  poultry,  herbs  used  in, 

215. 

Sucrose,  183. 

Suet,  167. 

Suet  and  fruit  pudding,  steamed, 
200. 

Sugar,  as  ingredient  of  flour  mix- 
tures, 122;  value  as  food,  181; 
danger  of  improper  use  of,  181; 
valuable  to  prevent  exhaustion 
under  physical  stress,  181 ;  earlier 
forms  in  which  it  was  used,  182; 
supply  of,  182,  183;  shortage  of, 
during  the  War,  183;  kinds  of, 
183;  cane,  183,  184;  beet,  184; 
of  milk,  185;  malt,  185;  fruit,  185; 
invert,  185;  action  of,  on  boiling, 
186;  barley,  187;  proper  use  of, 
in  diet,  187. 

Sugar  of  milk,  28,  184,  185. 

Sugars,  19,  183-85. 

Sulphur,  needed  in  the  body,  246. 

Summer  savory,  215. 

Supper,  254,  255. 

Swedish  macaroons,  141. 

Sweet  pickles,  226. 

Sweetbreads,  67;  a  la  Newburg,  67; 
a  la  Poulette,  67;  creamed,  67; 
omelet,  68;  salad,  68. 

Swiss  cheese,  87. 

Syrup,  action  in  "boiling,  186;  tests 
of,  186;  for  fruit  beverages,  288. 

Tabasco,  216,  217. 

Table  fats,  167. 

Tapioca,  apple,  197;  orange,  198; 

puddings,  for  invalids,  291. 
Tarragon,  215. 
Tea,  place  of,  in  diet,  211,  213; 

harmful     ingredient     of,     211; 

method  of  preparation  for  mar- 


ket, 212;  kinds  of,  212;  Pekoe, 
212;  Oolong,  212;  Orange  Pekoe, 
212;  Chinese,  212;  Indian,  212; 
Ceylon,  212;  green,  212;  black, 
212;  method  of  making,  212. 

Tea,  218;  iced,  219;  Russian,  219. 

Teeth,  the,  229. 

Tenderloin,  the,  46. 

Thyme,  215. 

Timbale,  salmon,  76. 

Toast,  cheese,  97. 

Toast  water,  287. 

Tomato,  beef,  oatmeal,  and,  59; 
corn,  and  cheese,  95. 

Tomato  preserve,  223;  (green) 
marmalade,  223;  mince  meat, 
223;  salad  jelly,  95;  soup,  153. 

Tomatoes,  baked,  162;  fried,  with 
cream  dressing,  162;  scalloped 
green,  162. 

Tongue,  calves',  with  tomato  sauce, 
60;  fresh  beef's,  61. 

Trans- Mississippi  Exposition  salad, 
178. 

Trussing,  51,  52. 

Tuberculosis,  food  for,  286. 

Turkey,  dressing  for,  66. 

Turkish  pilaf,  117. 

Typhoid  fever,  food  for,  285. 

Uncooked  frosting,  144. 
Unorganized  ferments,  231. 
Utensils,  kitchen,  7-9,  14. 

Vanilla  extract,  217. 

Vanilla  mousse,  209;  sauce,  203. 

Vegetable  fats,  168. 

Vegetable  recipes,  153-63:  aspara- 
gus loaf,  157;  baked  cheese  and 
pimento  potato,  156;  baked  ripe 
cucumber,  159;  baked  tomatoes, 
162;  cabbage  and  rice,  157;  cauli- 
flower a  la  Hollandaise,  158;  cel- 
ery ramekins,  158;  Chambery 
potatoes,  154;  corn  and  potato 
loaf,  156;  corn  pudding  from 
fresh  corn,  159;  corn  oysters, 
159;  creamed  eggs  and  potato, 
156;  Creole  corn  fritters,  159; 
Delmonico  potatoes,  155;  fried 
eggplant,  159;  fried  tomatoes 
with  cream  dressing,  162;  Hol- 
landaise sauce,    158;   Kentucky 


314 


INDEX 


potatoes,  154;  mashed  potatoes 
—  company  style,  154;  mold  of 
peas  or  beans,  160;  mold  of 
spinach,  161 ;  mother's  scalloped 
potatoes,  155;  pea  souffle,  160; 
potato  soup,  154;  potatoes  gold- 
enrod,  156;  scalloped  eggplant, 
159;  scalloped  green  tomatoes, 
162;  squash  souffle,  162;  stuffed 
and  baked  green  tomatoes,  161; 
stuffed  baked  potatoes,  155; 
stuffed  eggplant,  160;  tomato 
soup,  153;  vegetable  chowder, 
154;  vegetable  hash,  155;  vege- 
table roast,  103;  vegetable  soup, 
153.  See  Legumes. 

Vegetable  salads,  174-76.  See 
Salad. 

Vegetables,  composition  of,  22-24, 
146;  a  source  of  minerals,  23,  24, 
146;  a  source  of  vitamines,  24, 
147,  148;  consumption  of,  should 
be  increased,  145;  leaf,  146,  147; 
ways  of  grouping,  148;  cooking 
of,  148,  149;  summary  of  food 
value,  cooking,  and  serving  of, 

150,  I5i- 
Vein,  the,  47. 


Vitamines,  24;  in  milk,  28;  in  plant 
leaves,  147;  in  fruits  and  green 
vegetables,  247. 

Waffles,  raised,  132. 

Walnut  cake,  137;  catchup,  217; 
ice,  210. 

Walnuts,  jellied,  204. 

Wastes,  the  elimination  of,  in  the 
body,  235,  236. 

Water,  composition  of,  18;  impor- 
tance of,  18,  229;  pure,  18;  plain 
boiled,  for  infants,  262. 

Water  glass,  33. 

Water-soluble  B,  24,  148. 

Wheat,  120. 

Wheat  cream  soup,  36. 

Whey,  272;  lemon,  288. 

Whip,  frozen  orange,  209;  prune 
(1),  199;  prune  (11),  199. 

White  bean  soup,  flavoring  for,  100. 

Whitebait,  84. 

Wiggle,  shrimp,  77. 

Wintergreen  extract,  217. 

Woody  fiber,  20. 

Worcestershire  sauce,  217. 

Yeast,  125. 


<gt&e  fitoer?i&e  $re$$ 

CAMBRIDGE  .  MASSACHUSETTS 
U    .    S    .    A 


LiDnMHY  ur  UUNOntOO 


0  014  358  620  0 


HI 

I 

MBaaBa 

H 

Us 


m  H 


i» 


i  ■ 


■ 


