THE  LIBRARY 
tGBA  ••  V  U  IV^RSITY 

*  PROVO,  UTAH 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2015 


https://archive.org/details/fooditscompositiOOtild 


FOOD 

Its  Composition,  Preparation,  Combination, 
and  Effects,  with  Appendix  on  Cooking 


it  V 


J.  H.  TILDEN,  M.  D. 

Author  of  "Criticisms  of  the  Practice  of  Medicine, "  "Cholera 
Infantum,"  "Typhoid  Fever,"  "Diseases  of  Women  and 
Easy  Childhirth,"  "Gonorrhea  and  Syphilis," 
"Appendicitis,"   "Care  of  Children," 
"Food."  Volume  1 


The  people  arc  beginning  to  realize  the  need  of  a 
knowledge  of  Food  —  1 1 s  Composition,  Preparation, 
Com!  inatiun,  and  Ktfc^t.s 


DENVKK.  COLORADO 

J.  H.  TILDEN,  M.  D. 

Editor  and  Publisher 


Copyright,  1916 


THE  LIBRARY 
BRIG  MA.    Y   UNG  U.  I  VARSITY 
PROVO,  UTAH 


Foreword 


HE  part  played  by  food  in  building  dis- 
ease is  so  Uitle  understood  by  the  people 
generally  that  there  mil  be  no  hope  of 
raising  the  standard  of  health  so  long  as 
this   remains   true.    It  has   been  my 

'O^W^ CT  en^eaVor  for  tne  Pas*  'rp0  decades  to 
enlighten  the  few  with  whose  attention 
I  have  been  favored.  The  favorable  reception  of  my 
previous  book  on  the  subject  has  encouraged  me  to 
write  this,  a  second  volume  on  the  same  subject. 

Overeating  is  so  common,  and  its  sequences  are  so 
little  known,  that  too  much  cannot  be  said  on  the 
subject  of  food,  in  its  relation  to  health  and  disease. 
Every  person  should  have  sufficient  reasoning  power  to 
realize  that  tainted  food — food  in  a  state  of  decompo- 
sition— is  dangerous  to  health  when  eaten.  This  being 
true,  why  is  it  not  dangerous  to  health  to  take  into 
the  stomach  more  pure  food  than  can  be  digested? 
Decomposition  is  sure  to  follow,  and,  certainly,  decom- 
position taken  in  is  no  more  infectious  than  the  decom- 
position developed  within  the  alimentary  canal. 

J.  H.  TILDEN. 


Contents 


INTRODUCTION  Page 
Food — Its  Influence  in  Health  and  Disease.  ...  1 

CHAPTER  I 

Food  in  Its  Relationship  to  the  Body   68 

Food  Elements:     Water,  Salts,  Proteins,  Carbohy- 
drates, Fats   69 

CHAPTER  II 

Digestion   80 

Enzymes,  Salivary  Digestion,  Gastric  Digestion,  Intes- 
tinal Digestion 

Absorption    87 

Stomach  Absorption,  Intestinal  Absorption 

CHAPTER  III 

Animal  Foods   89 

Milk,  Cheese,  Eggs,  Meat,  Fish 

CHAPTER  IV 
Vegetable  Foods   1 70 

Cereals,  Legumes,  Roots  and  Tubers,  Green  Vege- 
tables, Fruits,  Nuts,  Fungi,  Lichens 


CHAPTER  V  Page 

Sugar    206 

Spices  and  Condiments   227 

Fats  and  Oils  '   22G 

Salts    230 

CHAPTER  VI 

Beverages  and  Stimulants   233 

Water,  Tea,  Coffee,  Cocoa,  Chocolate,  Alcohol 

APPENDIX 

Our  Cook  Book   243 

Introduction    245 

Recipes   247 

Index   289 


FOOD 

ITS  COMPOSITION,  PREPARATION, 
COMBINATION,  AND  EFFECTS 


INTRODUCTION 

HE  subject  of  food — its  influence  in  health 
and  disease;  its  preparation  and  combina- 

Ttion;  when  to  eat  and  when  not  to  eat — is 
I      one  of  the  great  subjects  of  the  day. 

Laymen  are  demanding  knowledge  on 
Cj&^/^0S   tne  food  question.     Physicians  are  waking 
up  to  the  necessity  of  securing  knowledge 
that  will  help  them  feed  their  patients. 

When  the  people  learn  the  fact  that  every  disease  can 
be  successfully  treated,  and  treated  more  satisfactorily 
with  diet  than  by  any  other  plan,  the  demand  will  be  so 
great  for  dietetic  treatment  that  physicians  will  find  it 
necessary  to  prepare  themselves  for  treating  disease  by 
correcting  dietetic  and  other  habits. 

The  demand  for  dietetic  treatment  of  disease  is  al- 
ready great  enough  to  justify  my  bringing  out  a  book,  or 
books,  covering  the  subject. 

Those  who  have  given  the  subject  of  food  no  thought 
may  be  a  little  skeptical.  In  all  probability  many  readers 
will  know  from  experience  and  observation  that  my  sug- 
gestions about  food  combinations  are  absurd.  It  will 
take  a  long  time  to  change  the  current  of  opinion,  from  an 
ignorance  of  the  evil  influences  of  overeating,  to  a  belief 
in  it,  which  will  cause  a  change  in  keeping  with  the  belief. 
When  I  recommend  that  meat  and  bread  be  not  eaten 
together  by  those  with  impaired  health,  my  critics  will 
ask:    "Does  not  the  whole  world  of  people  eat  meat  and 


6 


Food 


bread  together?"  When  I  say  that  bread  and  other 
starchy  foods  should  not  be  eaten  with  sugar,  preserved 
and  cooked  fruits,  my  critics  will  show  how  absurd  are 
my  recommendations;  for  they  will  say:  "Is  it  not  a 
fact  that  people  generally  mix  or  combine  starchy  foods 
with  cooked  fruits  and  sugar  ?"  And  when  I  maintain 
that  coffee,  tea,  tobacco,  and  alcoholics  are  injurious,  my 
friends  will  point  to  the  fact  that  these  drugs  are  in  com- 
mon use  by  nearly  all  the  people  all  the  time.  I  can, 
however,  offset  all  these  criticisms  and  conventional  be- 
liefs with  the  indisputable  fact  that  the  average  length  of 
life  is  about  forty  years — one-third  the  normal  length  of 
time  man  should  live.  A  sad  reflection  on  man's  intelli- 
gence; for,  as  I  contend  and  can  prove,  man  shortens  his 
life  by  his  habits. 

My  critics  will  no  doubt  admit  that  those  who  drink 
sometimes  get  drunk;  and  this  means  that  they  are  alco- 
hol-poisoned. I  believe  that  all  rational  beings  will  admit 
that  there  are  people  who  eat  too  much,  work  too  hard, 
enjoy  too  much,  sorrow  too  much,  bathe  too  much,  clothe 
themselves  overmuch;  in  fact,  I  believe  my  severest  critics 
will  admit  that  it  is  the  disposition  of  most  people  to  go 
to  extremes  in  one  or  more  directions.  This  admitted,  I 
must  declare  that  in  this  fact  we  have  the  cause  of  dis- 
ease; for  excess  in  all  lines  breaks  down  resistance  by 
using  up  nerve  energy.  When  energy  is  used  up,  the 
functions  of  the  body  are  not  carried  on  properly';  then 
waste  is  retained,  which  poisons  the  body  and  causes  it 
to  become  autotoxemic. 

A  well  man  may  indulge  in  any  and  all  vices  for  a 
time,  without  apparent  harm.  If  he  has  large  resistance, 
a  happy  contented  mind,  and  is  inclined  to  avoid  excess, 
he  may  live  to  eighty  or  a  hundred  years  of  age.  Such 
a  man  has  a  limit  to  his  habits  beyond  which  he  will  not 
go— no,  not  even  to  please  a  friend.  This  temperament 
has  either  one  vice  that  is  indulged  in  to  the  full,  or  sev- 


Introduction 


7 


eral  vices  that  are  not  pushed  beyond  the  influence  expe- 
rienced from  the  fully  indulged  single  vice.  It  has  a 
safety-valve,  so  to  speak,  in  a  wise  caution.  It  indulges 
up  to  a  given  effect,  and  when  that  is  reached,  no  more 
will  be  indulged  in  until  the  used-up  nerve  energy  is  re- 
stored. This  is  not  deliberately  planned  and  wisely  ex- 
ecuted; for  the  individual  is  probably  not  aware  that  he 
is  different  from  other  people.  Indeed,  I  have  found  such 
people  innocent  of  any  knowledge  of  being  possessed  of 
self-protection,  and  when  called  upon  to  give  expression 
concerning  the  influence  of  bad  habits,  they  will  usually 
say,  concerning  diet  or  temperance — self-control  or  self- 
restriction:  "I  eat,  drink,  smoke,  or  indulge  my  wants  as 
I  like.  I  never  restrict  myself.  I  do  not  believe  in  your 
absurd  ideas  concerning  food  combinations.  I  smoke  all 
I  like,  and  have  done  so  since  my  youth.  I  eat  anything 
and  everything  I  like;  nothing  hurts  me.  I  do  not  believe 
such  things  cause  disease.  I  believe  that  when  a  man's 
time  comes  he  will  go."  So  thoroughly  convinced  is  such 
a  man  of  the  correctness  of  his  attitude  that  he  will  usually 
work  against  rational  reform  movements.  He  knows  that 
he  can  drink  or  let  it  alone,  and  he  knows  that  other 
people  can  do  the  same.  He  will  vote  to  keep  the  saloon 
open,  because  he  cannot  conceive  the  truth  that  the 
majority  of  drinking  men  are  unable  to  abandon  their 
destructive  drinking  habits  so  long  as  there  is  a  place 
to  buy,  beg,  or  steal  a  drink. 

All  men  with  destructive  habits  have  times  when  they 
are  strong  enough  to  go  by  the  places  where  their  enemy 
is  for  sale;  but  they  also  have  moments  of  such  nerve 
depression  that  they  will  sell  their  birth-right  for  a  mess  of 
pottage. 

Drug  stores,  opium  joints,  and  saloons  do  not  tempt 
the  sober  man;  but  not  so  with  the  drug  fiend.  The  laws 
are  becoming  so  strict  that  it  is  hard  for  the  drug-crazed 


8 


Food 


to  buy  morphine,  opium,  cocaine,  and  other  habit-pro- 
ducing drugs. 

The  saloon,  drug  store,  and  doctors  who  give  habit- 
forming  drugs  should  be  put  out  of  business  for  the 
sake  of  those  who  cannot  quit  their  bad  habit  so  long  as  it 
is  possible  for  them  to  buy,  beg,  or  steal  drugs. 

There  are  food  fiends  who  are  as  hard  to  control  a3 
those  with  the  drug  habit.  It  is  impossible  to  keep  them 
from  overeating.  As  a  consequence,  they  cannot  be 
cured.  So  long  as  they  are  under  watch,  and  being 
coached,  they  may  be  made  better;  but  they  have  no 
self-control. 

Medical  superstition — modern  medical  superstition- — 
is  standing  in  the  way  of  educating  the  people  into  right 
habits  of  thinking.  So  long  as  the  priests  of  healing  are 
self-indulgent — users  of  tobacco,  alcoholics,  coffee,  and 
tea  to  excess — and  abuse  their  health  standard  until  their 
perversions  are  as  great  as  those  of  the  ignorant  laity, 
the  people  will  not  listen  to  rational  advice.  Why? 
Because  the  entire  profession  is  opposed  to  the  non- 
sensical idea  that  food  can  possibly  have  anything  to  do 
with  building  disease. 

So  long  as  doctors  teach  that  disease  is  a  specific 
entity,  and  that  the  people  cannot  make  themselves  sick 
by  overindulgence,  just  so  long  will  there  be  no  hope 
of  health  becoming  the  rule,  instead  of,  as  now,  the 
exception. 

There  are  a  few  fundamentals  which  should  be  known 
to  every  human  being,  to  enable  him  to  think  logically, 
sanely,  and  protectively.  These  are:  Effects  cannot  exist 
without  a  cause;  cause  is  positive  and  effect  is  negative; 
when  a  positive  is  known,  its  effect  may  be  anticipated 
and  controlled.  These  propositions  are  universal  and  ap- 
plicable to  all  phenomena. 

For  immediate  thought  and  use,  let  us  think  that  dark- 
ness is  nothing  but  absence  of  light;  death  is  absence  of 


Introduction 


9 


life;  disease  is  absence  of  health;  weakness  is  absence  of 
strength;  ignorance  is  absence  of  learning;  chao?  is  ab- 
sence of  order;  and  order  is  the  first  law  of  nature. 

When  we  leave  the  realm  of  the  subconscious,  where 
we  are  nurtured  and  protected  by  nature,  and  come  into 
the  world  of  consciousness,  it  becomes  our  duty  as  sentient 
or  thinking  beings  to  study  nature  and  try  to  understand 
our  relationship  to  her — try  to  understand  what  she 
would  have  us  do  to  build  ourselves  by  using  her.  This 
is  the  duty  of  mind  in  its  independent  existence — it  owes 
it  to  itself  to  make  nature  build  it.  Nature  has  done  her 
part  in  protecting  us  through  cur  subconscious  lives;  and 
she  remains  the  same  kind  guide  and  mother.  But  her 
jurisdiction  ends  where  ours  begins.  Where  our  minds 
might  save  us,  but  will  not,  the  blessed  old  mother  stands 
by  and  allows  us  to  kill  ourselves,  if  kill  we  will — if  we 
cannot  be  taught  in  any  other  way. 

It  is  the  privilege  of  man  to  understand  the  laws  of 
his  being,  and  to  use  them  to  build  himself  into  a  perfec- 
tion of  health  that  stands  for  the  perfect  man. 

It  shall  be  my  endeavor  to  give  my  readers  a  work- 
ing knowledge  that  will  help  them  to  dependable  health. 

There  are  a  few  questions  that  ought  to  be  answered 
right;  namely:  Is  prohibition  ever  prohibitive?  Does  not 
prohibition  generate  a  retaliatory  desire  on  the  part  of 
those  who  indulge  in  the  drinking  vice?  And,  in  their 
resentment  at  what  they  look  upon  as  interference  with 
personal  liberty,  do  they  not  loan  themselves  to  the 
petty  crime  of  running,  or  patronizing,  secret  "joints"? 

If  the  enforcement  of  saloon  laws  were  in  the  hands 
of  temperate  officers,  backed  by  a  temperate  people,  the 
laws  would  be  enforced.  But  this  statement  is  a  paradox. 
Why?  Because  in  a  city  filled  with  temperate  people, 
and  officered  by  temperate  men,  there  would  be  no 
saloons. 


10 


Food 


There  is  but  one  way  to  enforce  saloon  laws,  and  that 
is  to  have  no  saloons.  Saloons  and  their  patrons  will  not 
enforce  saloon  laws.  Gluttons  will  not  enforce  laws 
against  themselves. 

Drinking  is  but  one  expression  of  lost  self-control,  the 
foundation  for  which  was  laid  in  the  home,  through  in- 
dulged children  and  lack  of  self-control  on  the  part  of 
parents. 

There  is  but  one  real  temperance,  and  that  should 
begin  before  birth,  not  after  it. 

Just  how  far  this  interference  with  personal  liberty 
can  or  should  be  allowed  to  go  is  hard  to  say;  for  there 
are  as  many  homes  made  poor  and  filled  with  disease, 
sorrow,  and  premature  death,  because  of  wrong  eating, 
overeating,  and  too  frequent  eating,  as  there  are  homes 
ruined  by  drugs.  The  supposed  need  of  drugs  is  built 
from  health-destroying  habits  taught  and  indulged  in  the 
home — modern  medical  science  to  the  contrary  notwith- 
standing. 

Those  who  are  helpless  to  protect  themselves  from 
drug  or  eating  habits  should  be  known  and  taken  care  of 
by  society.  These  people  should  not  be  permitted  to 
buy  alcohol  or  other  drugs. 

Thousands  who  have  been  ruined  and  have  died  of 
drug  habits  could  have  been  saved  if,  at  the  critical  mo- 
ment, when  desire  had  resistance  mastered,  it  would  have 
been  impossible  for  them  to  buy,  beg,  or  steal  the  much- 
coveted  poison. 

I  believe  that  the  average  individual  can  see,  if  taught 
how,  that  alcohol  poisoning  and  other  drug  poisonings, 
so  far  as  disease  is  concerned,  are  nothing  more  than 
health  under  the  depressing  influence  of  a  stimulating 
habit.  Reasoning,  thinking  beings  surely  cannot  look 
upon  an  enervated  state  of  the  body,  brought  on  from 
drugs,  as  a  disease  in  the  sense  that  is  generally  under- 


Introduction 


11 


stood — an  entity,  something  independent  of  the  organ- 
ism, and  to  be  driven  out  by  some  therapeutic  process. 

If,  then,  alcohol  reduces  nerve  energy,  it  simply  lowers 
the  normal  resistance.  The  individual  is  in  health,  but 
his  health  standard  is  below  the  point  where  sensations 
are  comfortable,  and  his  energy  is  reduced  to  such  an 
extent  that  he  cannot  perform  feats  of  strength.  The 
power  to  live  is  lessened,  and  if  the  habit  is  continued, 
the  nerve  energy  will  be  so  far  decreased  that  death 
results. 

This  being  the  state  of  the  body  brought  on  by  habit- 
ual drug  action,  what  can  be  the  nature  of  the  so-called 
diseases  caused  by  overstimulation  from  food,  joy,  sor- 
row, sensual  indulgences,  overwork,  and  the  giving-way 
to  the  emotions?  Is  not  the  disease,  enervation,  a  low- 
ered or  weakened  health  standard,  the  same  as  the  con- 
dition brought  on  from  the  use  of  drugs? 

Overstimulation  from  any  cause  lowers  energy;  and 
when  energy  is  lowered,  the  health  standard  is  lowered. 

Disease,  then,  in  its  true  sense,  is  lowered  resistance, 
or  health  in  a  state  of  depression;  and  the  cure  can  be  un- 
derstood by  anyone  capable  of  thinking. 

To  prescribe  intelligently  for  ordinary  diseases  does 
not  require  great  skill;  indeed,  it  does  not  often  need  a 
technical  medical  education.  But  it  does  require  technical 
skill  to  understand  the  cause  of  ordinary  diseases. 

If  energy  is  reduced  from  any  kind  of  overstimulation, 
there  is  but  one  cure,  and  that  is:  Remove  the  cause 
(stimulant),  and  rest. 

My  object  in  going  into  all  this  detail  is,  if  possible, 
to  teach  the  people  to  recognize  what  is  known  as  disease 
as  lowered  or  perverted  health,  and  not  a  specific  entity 
that  is  making  war  on  health  by  establishing  disease  in 
place  of  health.  There  is  no  disease  except  impaired 
health;  hence  it  is  correct  to  speak  of  "bad  health"  and 
"good  health." 


12 


Food 


The  profession  and  the  people  generally  will  be  bet- 
ter prepared  for  treating  the  sick,  if  they  can  be  made 
to  understand  that  there  is  no  disease  as  such;  that  what 
is  called  disease  is  health  laboring  under  a  handicap; 
and  that  all  the  remedy  needed,  and  all  that  can  be  used 
to  advantage,  is  to  understand  the  cause  of  the  lowered 
health  standard,  and  remove  it. 

I  contend  that  those  with  lowered  resistance  must  be 
brought  back  to  the  normal  by  rest  of  body  and  mind. 
AH  irritations  must  be  removed. 

Worry  depresses,  and,  if  it  is  not  overcome,  ideal 
health  cannot  be  attained. 

A  style  of  eating  that  irritates  or  overstimulates  must 
be  controlled,  or  the  enervated  will  be  further  enervated. 

The  child-mind  is  not  philosophic;  with  it  there  is  no 
unity  or  relationship  of  phenomena.  The  child-mind  sees 
tobacco  in  general  use  by  men  and  women  of  apparent 
good  health;  hence  it  decides  that  tobacco  is  not  injurious. 
The  fact  that  occasionally  a  man  lives  to  one  hundred 
years  of  age  who  has  used  tobacco  for  most  of  those 
years,  or  that  someone  is  a  moderate  drinker  of  alcoholics 
the  greater  part  of  ninety  years,  is,  by  people  who  do  not 
reason,  recognized  as  settling  the  question  that  tobacco 
and  alcohol  are  not  injurious. 

Boys  see  other  boys  smoking  and  apparently  main- 
taining good  health,  and  they  decide  that  it  does  not 
injure  boys  to  use  tobacco. 

The  custom  of  taking  drugs  by  most  people  who  are 
sick  establishes  the  belief  that  drugs  cure  disease.  Why 
not?  Do  not  most  people  get  well  who  fall  sick?  Yes. 
Then,  what  killed  those  who  died?  If  drugs  cure  those 
who  get  well  after  taking  them,  logic  declares  that  drugs 
kill  those  who  die. 

The  child-mind  believes  as  it  likes  to  believe;  and  its 
intelligence  is  not  questioned  when  its  conclusions  are 
glaringly  inconsistent.     For  example:     Jones  is  given 


Introduction 


13 


drugs,  and  recovers.  The  conclusion  accepted  by  all  is 
that  the  doctor  cured  him.  Brown  is  treated  by  the 
doctor  for  the  same  disease,  and  given  the  same  drugs, 
but  he  does  not  recover.  His  death  is  attributed  to  the 
"infinite  wisdom  of  God."  What  is  the  truth?  Reason 
declares  that,  if  the  drugging  cured  Jones,  it  must  have 
killed  Brown. 

The  explanation  of  the  whole  phenomenon  of  cause 
and  effect  rests  on  the  question  of  individual  resistance 
or  the  amount  of  health  which  the  individual  possesses. 

In  determining  the  injurious  effect  of  a  given  stimula- 
tion, the  individual's  resistance  must  be  considered.  The 
amount  of  resistance  will  not  answer  the  question;  for  the 
individual  who  is  well  poised  will  not  wear  out  in  half 
the  time  that  the  one  will  who  is  not  well  poised. 

The  man  who  smokes  incessantly  and  is  well  poised 
will  live  longer  than  the  non-smoker  who  is  not  poised 
and  who  borrows  trouble. 

The  woman  who  is  well  poised  can  have  a  baker's 
dozen  of  children,  and  live  to  enjoy  life  with  the  children 
of  her  youngest  child;  while  a  woman  of  equal  energy, 
but  who  is  not  poised,  will  break  down  and  die  long  be- 
fore her  children  are  grown. 

I  wish  my  readers  to  pay  strict  attention  to  my  theory 
of  disease;  namely,  disease  is  health  perverted. 

The  body  is  a  machine  that  is  possessed  of  more  or 
less  reparative  power,  but  nevertheless  a  machine;  and, 
like  all  machines,  it  will  last  in  keeping  with  the  care 
given  it.  If  it  is  worked  hard  and  given  but  little  atten- 
tion, it  will  wear  out. 

Does  it  appear  reasonable  that  life  or  energy  can  be 
drawn  upon  in  every  way  continuously  without  rest,  and 
not  become  exhausted? 

Does  it  sound  reasonable  to  say  that  the  man  who 
works  and  smokes  uses  no  more  energy  than  the  man 
who  works  and  does  not  smoke? 


14 


Food 


Is  it  reasonable  to  believe  that  the  girl  who  goes  to 
school  and  takes  music  lessons  spends  no  more  energy 
than  the  girl  who  attends  the  same  school  and  does  not 
take  music?  Suppose  the  girl  who  goes  to  school  and  takes 
music  is  fed  on  starchy  food  at  every  meal,  eats  candy 
between  meals,  and  frets  and  worries  all  the  time  until 
she  cannot  sleep;  is  anyone  simple-minded  enough  to 
believe  that  nerve  bankruptcy  is  not  staring  such  a  young 
person  in  the  face?  Is  there  any  excuse  for  tonsilitis  and 
adenoids  in  such  a  subject?  And  will  removing  the  ton- 
sils and  adenoids  cure  the  irregular  eating,  the  candy- 
eating,  the  starch-eating,  or  the  fretting  and  worry? 

Doctors  who  believe  this  should  be  sent  out  to  feed 
hogs  for  a  living.  It,  of  course,  would  be  hard  on  the 
hogs,  but  a  relief  to  school  children. 

FOUNDATION  OF  HEALTH 

No  structure  can  be  built  and  given  lasting  power 
without  a  good  foundation.  It  matters  not  how  splendid 
is  the  inheritance  of  a  given  individual;  he  must  have  a 
foundation  on  which  his  powers  can  rest;  and  that  founda- 
tion is  poise. 

An  infant  can  be  given  poise  by  being  educated  into 
contentment.  Young  children  should  not  be  handled,  ex- 
cept just  enough  to  be  kept  clean,  fed,  and  turned  from 
side  to  side  occasionally.  They  must  go  to  sleep  without 
rocking  or  coddling.  They  should  be  taken  to  a  quiet 
room,  where  they  will  be  warm,  and  left  alone,  except  to 
give  them  the  necessary  attention.  They  can  be  taught 
to  demand,  by  fretfulness  and  restlessness,  to  be  taken 
to  a  dark  bedroom  and  put  to  bed  where  they  will  go  to 
sleep  at  once  and  continue  until  morning.  They  can  be 
taught  to  eat  three  times  a  day  and  be  satisfied. 

Nothing  is  so  disgusting  as  a  child  that  must  be  enter- 
tained all  the  time.  The  egomania  of  a  child  may  be 
developed  to  such  a  degree  that  it  loses  its  health. 


Introduction 


15 


Those  people  who  make  up  the  rank  and  file  of  the 
great  army  of  invalids  filling  the  hospitals  and  sanitariums 
are,  almost  to  a  man  and  woman,  undisciplined.  They 
have  no  self-discipline.  All  their  lives  they  have  prac- 
ticed doing  as  they  like.  Many  are  dancing  attendance  to 
a  morbid  appetite.  They  know  but  little  about  suppress- 
ing an  impulse.  A  very  large  percentage  arrives  at  the 
stage  where  sensual  gratification  is  the  "summum  bonum." 

When  this  stage  of  chaos  in  self-control  is  reached, 
the  victim  is  badly  enervated.  If  he  is  a  user  of  tobacco, 
he  is  going  the  limit;  if  his  desires  run  to  food,  he  glut- 
tonizes  at  the  regular  meal  time  and  eats  between  meals; 
if  his  taste  runs  to  confectionery,  he  will  eat  a  pound  of 
candy  at  a  sitting;  if  lust  commands  his  attention,  he  prob- 
ably will  go  to  such  extremes  that  paralysis  will  overtake 
him  early  in  life.  The  neurasthenic  type  will  complain 
of  every  kind  of  disease  in  the  course  of  a  year. 

It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  by  the  time  these  people 
begin  to  seek  health  advice  they  are  decidedly  enervated; 
their  established  nerve-exhausting  habits  are  fully  devel- 
oped, and  master  of  them.  Indeed,  the  habits  are  a  part 
of  them.  To  cure  such  people  requires  an  extraordinary 
power  to  control  them,  as  well  as  knowledge  of  how  to 
convince  them  of  the  evil  of  their  ways,  and  to  make  them 
believe  that  health  is  worth  the  effort  they  must  make 
to  overcome  their  bad  habits. 

Those  with  no  ambition  cannot  be  cured;  for  they 
will  quickly  drift  back  into  old  habits.  The  ambitious 
man  and  woman  can  be  shown  that  they  are  not  getting 
all  that  is  coming  to  them.  They  can  be  convinced  that 
by  restoring  all  their  nerve  power  they  will  increase  their 
efficiency  and  come  into  their  own. 

No  one  is  getting  all  that  is  coming  to  him  who  is 
sapping  his  nerve  energy  with  a  bad  habit.  The  one 
who  is  smart  and  successful,  with  the  handicap  of  one 


16 


Food 


or  more  bad  habits,  should  know  that  he  is  falling  far 
short  of  his  capabilities. 

There  is  a  popular  belief  that  alcoholics  will  help  con- 
centration; that  tobacco  will  brighten  the  intellect  and 
bring  the  best  out  of  those  who  use  it.  Such  beliefs  are 
nonsensical.  The  unstimulated  mind  does  its  best  work 
when  normal  and  rested.  Sleep  is  the  only  positive  re- 
storer of  mental  power.  Non-stimulating  food,  carrying 
all  the  food  elements  necessary  to  build  the  body  and 
mind,  is  all  that  is  necessary  to  bring  out  the  best  in 
anyone. 

The  literature  of  the  day  is  more  or  less  marred  and 
distorted  by  the  effects  of  stimulants.  Tobacco  and  al- 
cohol are  not  logical.  They  never  get  down  to  reasoning 
out  the  cause  and  effect.  Opium  and  cocaine  write  ex- 
travagantly. They  paint  pictures  that  are  sometimes  nude 
and  sometimes  salacious. 

EATING— ITS  OBJECT 

The  object  of  food  is  to  maintain  life,  keep  up 
strength  or  energy  to  do  the  work  of  life,  and  give  po- 
tency to  the  mind.  When  serious  thought  is  given  to  the 
real  work  accomplished  by  metabolism,  is  there  anything 
in  life  more  important?  And,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  is  there 
anything  pertaining  to  man's  well-being  and  happiness 
that  is  carried  on  in  a  more  haphazard  manner  than  the 
preparing  and  eating  of  food? 

When  intelligent  men  and  women  have  digested  the 
truths  of  the  preceding  paragraphs — have  learned  that 
disease  is  health  perverted,  that  disease  cannot  be  estab- 
lished until  the  body  and  mind  are  enervated — they 
surely  can  carry  these  truths  a  step  farther  and  see  the 
necessity  of  maintaining  a  normal  health  standard  by 
avoiding  doing  to  excess  everything  that  lowers  energy. 

There  is  nothing  with  which  man  has  to  do  that  is 
of  more  importance  than  a  knowledge  of  food — its  com- 


Introduction 


17 


position,  preparation,  and  effect  upon  the  body;  its  good 
as  well  as  bad  effects;  its  conversion  into  brain  and 
brawn. 

There  is  no  knowledge  equal  to  the  art  of  eating — to 
know  when  to  eat,  and  when  not  to  eat;  what  to  eat,  and 
what  not  to  eat;  what  foods  to  combine,  and  what  foods 
not  to  combine;  in  brief,  what,  when,  and  how  to  eat. 

Someone  has  said  that  "hygiene  of  the  stomach  is 
also  hygiene  of  the  mind."  This  truth  is  so  simple  and 
self-evident  that  it  should  be  apparent  to  everyone;  but, 
as  it  is  not,  it  should  be  "proclaimed  from  the  house- 
tops" until  the  most  ignorant  know  of  it. 

How  many  can  understand  how  far-reaching  is  the 
expression,  "hygiene  of  the  mind"?  It  means  that  per- 
fect mental  hygiene  is  perfect  morality,  ideal  estheticism, 
correct  ethics.  This  being  true,  is  not  health,  and  how 
to  build  it  ideally,  the  correct  religion?  Can  there  be  an 
ideal  religion — church — built  on  any  other  foundation? 
What  is  more  incongruous,  absurd,  or  paradoxical  than 
a  sick  saint  or  a  drunken  teacher  of  health? 

FOOD  VALUES 

Man  works  for  his  living.  To  make  a  comfortable 
living,  these  days,  he  must  work  body  and  mind.  To  do 
so  means  wearing  out.  To  work,  to  think,  to  eat,  causes 
a  wearing-out  of  the  organism.  And  man's  duty  to  him- 
self is  to  know  how  to  do  all  these  things  at  the  least 
expenditure  of  force,  so  that  he  may  live  long  and  ac- 
complish much. 

In  working,  man  should  learn  to  do  the  most  pos- 
sible for  him  to  do  with  the  least  wear  and  tear.  The 
mind,  and  the  mind  only,  can  help  man  save  his  body. 
The  best  minds  are  in  the  bodies  best  cared  for.  It  then 
behooves  all  of  us  to  take  care  of  our  bodies. 

Who  are  the  skilled  laborers?  Who  are  those  who 
elevate  the  standard  and  dignify  labor,  all  the  way  from 


18 


Food 


those  engaged  in  common  day  labor,  to  those  with  the 
most  consummate  skill  in  mechanics  and  technology,  on 
to  those  representing  the  highest  types  in  art  and  the 
professions?  Those  who  use  their  minds.  Mind  effi- 
ciency makes  skill,  and  the  kind  of  skill  that  has  a  ready 
market.  Skill,  I  say;  not  egomania.  Dear  reader,  there 
is  a  difference!    Study  it,  and  act  wisely. 

To  overstimulate  the  body  and  mind  by  food,  drugs, 
and  uncontrolled  emotions,  or  by  any  other  form  of  stim- 
ulation, is  to  bind  up  the  mind's  eyes  and  go  through 
life  in  mental  darkness. 

Nutrition  is  perverted  by  drugs — tobacco,  alcohol, 
and  the  sedative  drugs;  efficiency  is  handicapped  by  any 
influence  that  consumes  energy  and  establishes  enerva- 
tion. 

How  many  men  go  stumbling  over  all  their  opportu- 
nities because  sensuality  has  put  a  hood  over  their  mind's 
eyes?  Many  people  who  think  they  never  had  a  show 
in  life  are  mentally  blinded  with  bad  habits.  Their 
physical  eyes  see  the  objective  world;  but  unless  this 
sight  is  accompanied  by  mental  vision,  the  objects  will 
have  no  meaning — will  not  be  understood. 

Without  the  mind  the  eyes  see  nothing;  hence  it  is 
obvious  that,  if  man  desires  to  come  into  his  own,  he 
must  see,  and  comprehend  what  he  sees. 

The  difference  between  the  man  who  sees  with  his 
mind  and  the  one  who  sees  with  his  physical  eyes  is  the 
difference  between  walking  and  riding  a  bicycle;  between 
the  stage-coach  and  a  Twentieth-Century  Limited;  between 
the  automobile  and  a  flying-machine;  between  drugging 
to  suppress  pain,  and  removing  the  cause  of  the  pain; 
between  the  most  skilled  surgical  operation,  and  the  cor- 
recting of  the  errors  of  life  on  which  the  disease  calling 
for  surgery  depends;  between  skilfully  removing  a  dis- 
eased thyroid  gland,  and  teaching  the  patient  how  to  live 
so  that  health  may  be  restored  and  the  gland  returned 


Introduction 


19 


to  the  normal;  between  operating  for  appendicitis,  and 
removing  the  errors  of  digestion  and  nutrition  which 
bring  about  the  disease;  between  cutting  out  stone  in  the 
gall-bladder  and  kidney,  and  teaching  such  patients  how 
to  live  to  get  rid  of  lithemia  (stone-making)  ;  the  differ- 
ence between  presribing  lithia  tablets  or  alkaline  waters 
for  the  cure  of  lithemia,  and  correcting  the  dietetic  and 
other  habits  that  have  brought  on  the  disease. 

I  find  that  mankind  has  lived  in  such  ignorance  re- 
garding health,  and  how  to  keep  it,  that  it  is  very  difficult 
to  teach  dietetics  and  hygiene.  If  man  buys  life  insur- 
ance or  house  insurance,  it  is  only  after  he  has  learned  the 
need  of  it.  The  same  is  true  of  health  knowledge.  Man 
will  not  buy  a  protecting  knowledge  until  he  learns  to 
know  that  he  needs  it.  Then  he  must  run  the  risk  of 
buying  knowledge  that  is  worthless. 

When  he  is  awakened  to  the  need  of  protection  from 
disease,  he  soon  learns  that  the  profession  is  divided  in 
its  opinion  of  how  he  should  be  immunized.  He  quickly 
learns  that  the  respectable  element — the  majority — of 
medical  men  believe  and  teach  that  he  can  be  artificially 
immunized  by  vaccination,  inoculation,  etc.  He  soon 
learns  that  nothing  he  can  do  himself  will  save  him; 
that  all  the  talk  about  eating  wrongly  and  practicing  bad 
habits,  etc.,  is  "foolish** — simply  "fads  which  beguile  the 
unwary." 

Only  a  short  time  ago  the  best  professional  men  ad- 
vocated drug  palliation.  Now  the  palliation  continues, 
but  all  faith  and  hope  are  centered  in  vaccines,  serums, 
antitoxins,  etc.  My  labor  is  an  endeavor  to  teach  a  few 
— a  small  percentage  of  mankind — that  man's  health, 
life,  and  happiness  are  within  his  own  hands;  that  he  is 
sick,  inefficient,  and  handicapped  in  the  race  of  life  by 
reason  of  habits  that  are  blindly  followed  because  all 
who  have  gone  before  him  have  practiced  them. 


20 


Food 


There  are  so  few  who  really  have  any  vital  knowledge 
on  the  subject  of  causation,  but  who  think  they  have, 
that  I  find  myself  endlessly  pounding,  in  a  vain  endeavor 
to  get  a  few  facts  implanted  into  a  few  minds. 

Fundamentals  are  positively  necessary,  if  anyone  de- 
sires a  working  knowledge.  But  I  find  people  clamoring 
for  more  general  knowledge,  when  they  are  in  the  pain- 
ful position  of  not  being  able  to  apply  the  knowledge 
they  have,  simply  because  they  are  so  indifferent  to  the 
rules  or  fundamental  principles  which  would  enable  them 
to  apply  old  as  well  as  new  information. 

The  reason  why  most  people  are  clamoring  for  more 
knowledge  before  they  are  ready  for  it  is  because  that 
is  the  style  of  teaching  in  our  schools.  Most  children  are 
passed  along  so  rapidly  that  they  do  not  know  what  they 
have  gone  over;  hence  the  new  knowledge  is  not  digested, 
because  rules  that  would  enable  them  to  assimilate  it  are 
passed  over  and  not  understood. 

If  the  reader  finds  me  reverting — iterating  and 
many  hundred  times  reiterating — in  these  articles  on  food, 
its  composition,  preparation,  combination,  and  effect,  my 
only  apology  is  that  I  find  so  few  who  really  know  what 
I  am  endeavoring  to  teach. 

SIMPLE  CLASSIFICATION  OF  FOODS 

Air,  Heat,  Cold,  Light,  Sound,  Electricity  are  elements 
as  necessary  as  food,  if,  indeed,  they  are  not  the  most  im- 
portant food. 

fProteids;   e.   g.,   casein,   myosin,  gluten, 
Nitrogenous    J  legumin 
Organic      -{     <Pr°tein)       [^Albuminoids;  e.  g.,  gelatin 

("Carbohydrates;  e.  g.,  sugar,  starch 
]^Fats;  e.  g.,  olive  oil,  butter 

I  Mineral  matter;  e.  g.,  sodium,  potassium,  lime,  phosphorus, 
Inorganic    \  chlorin 
{ Water 

—HUTCHINSON. 


Introduction 


21 


AIR 

Air  is  not  classed  as  a  food;  yet  it  is  the  most  im- 
portant food.  We  can  live  without  the  ordinary  foods 
from  thirty  to  forty  days,  and  we  can  live  without  water 
for  a  few  days,  but  we  cannot  live  without  air  for  more 
than  a  few  minutes. 

Air  is  the  gaseous  substance  that  envelops  the  earth 
and  forms  its  atmosphere.  It  consists  almost  entirely  of 
the  gases  oxygen  and  nitrogen,  which  are  merely  mixed 
and  not  chemically  combined. 

An  ordinary-sized  man  is  supposed  to  take  through 
the  lungs  about  two  thousand  cubic  feet  of  air  each 
twenty-four  hours.  It  is  from  the  air  that  we  secure  our 
greatest  supply  of  oxygen. 

Air  at  sea-level  has  a  pressure  of  about  fourteen  and 
three-fourths  pounds  to  the  square  inch.  It  decreases 
about  one-twentieth  of  a  pound  per  square  inch  for  every 
ninety  feet  of  altitude.  High  altitudes  cause  a  quicken- 
ing of  the  pulse  and  breathing.  Most  people  have  an  idea 
that  there  is  much  danger  in  going  to  a  high  altitude 
quickly.  There  is  very  little  discomfort,  and  almost  no 
danger,  to  persons  in  good  health. 

It  is  said  that,  whatever  the  altitude,  the  composition 
of  the  air  is  always  the  same;  namely,  2  1  parts  of  oxygen, 
78.06  of  nitrogen,  0.94  of  argon,  and  a  trace  of  carbonic 
acid. 

The  only  change  in  the  composition  of  the  air  in  high 
altitudes  is  an  increase  in  ozone.  The  variations  of  the 
chemical  composition  of  the  air  do  not  account  for  the 
evil  effects  experienced  in  high  altitudes;  hence  the  effects 
must  be  caused  by  temperature,  pressure,  and  the  action 
of  the  sun's  rays,  which  strike  more  perpendicularly  in 
high  than  in  low  altitudes.  At  an  altitude  of  4,500  to 
5,000  feet  the  temperature  will  mark  a  difference  of  ten 
to  twelve  degrees  Fahrenheit  in  the  sun  and  in  the  shade. 


22 


Food 


If  the  bulb  of  the  thermometer  be  covered  with  black 
cotton,  the  difference  will  often  reach  sixty  degrees  Fah- 
renheit. This  should  warn  those  in  delicate  health  to  pre- 
pare themselves  with  a  proper  amount  of  clothing  when 
going  into  high  altitudes.  It  should  not  be  forgotten, 
however,  that  the  cold  of  high  altitudes  is  more  tolerable 
than  that  of  low  altitudes. 

The  sun,  however,  does  not  melt  snow  unless  accom- 
panied with  warm  air.  Black  or  dark  clothes  retain  the 
sun's  heat  and  enable  the  traveler  to  keep  warm  in  a 
temperature  that  would  be  very  uncomfortable  at  sea- 
level. 

The  absence  of  wind  and  humidity  in  high  altitudes 
gives  comfort,  whereas  in  low  altitudes,  with  a  much 
higher  temperature,  those  who  are  sick  and  of  low  re- 
sistance will  suffer  from  the  cold. 

Altitude. — Snow  does  not  melt  in  high  altitudes,  even 
when  the  sun's  rays  are  quite  warm,  until  the  air  becomes 
warm.  Snow,  or  white  clothing,  reflects  the  sun's  rays; 
hence  dark  clothing  should  be  worn  in  winter,  and  white 
or  light-colored  clothing  in  summer. 

As  an  experiment:  Place  a  dry  leaf  on  a  bank  of 
snow  where  the  sun  is  shining;  in  a  little  while  it  will  be 
seen  that  the  snow  under  the  leaf  is  melting. 

Absence  of  wind  and  humidity  causes  high  altitudes 
to  be  comfortable  places  to  live. 

Mountain  air  is  so  dry  that  putrefaction  does  not 
occur  to  the  same  extent  as  at  sea-level.  In  high  altitudes 
meat  will  dry  and  cure  without  salt.  Desiccation  is  ef- 
fected before  decomposition  can  set  in.  At  St.  Bernard, 
in  the  Swiss  Alps,  the  corpses  of  men  and  animals  never 
decay.  The  dead  are  placed  in  morgues,  where  they  are 
preserved  indefinitely — a  form  of  immortality. 

The  air  is  so  rarefied  in  high  altitudes  that  patients 
are  made  quite  nervous  because  of  the  absence  of  noise. 


Introduction 


23 


Sound  does  not  carry,  because  the  air  is  not  dense  enough 
to  transmit  it. 

It  is  said  that  the  absence  of  noise  causes  a  feeling  of 
sadness. 

The  effect  of  altitudes  ranging  from  six  to  twelve 
thousand  feet,  on  one  seeking  health,  will  be  at  first, 
while  becoming  acclimated,  that  of  a  feeling  of  warmth 
on  the  skin.  The  lips  will  redden,  and  the  eyes  will 
flush.  For  a  while  one  will  be  troubled  with  insomnia; 
a  slight  palpitation;  or,  if  the  heart  is  weak,  the  palpita- 
tion may  be  severe.  There  will  be  a  feeling  of  dyspnea 
(shortness  of  breath)  ;  dizziness;  and  sometimes  head- 
ache. The  urine  is  dark,  and  constipation  is  the  rule;  and, 
from  the  first,  the  appetite  is  increased. 

In  a  short  time  the  skin  becomes  a  tan  color.  The 
lips,  nose,  and  hair  become  so  dry  that  salves  and  vase- 
line are  used  to  secure  relief  from  the  dryness.  Strength 
increases,  and  long  walks,  and  even  mountain-climbing, 
do  not  fatigue  until  overeating  brings  on  the  tired  feeling 
peculiar  to  food  poisoning. 

There  is  mountain  sickness,  which  is  said  to  be  un- 
avoidable in  altitudes  of  from  twelve  to  fifteen  thousand 
feet,  but  not  equally  in  all  countries — probably  the  result 
of  overeating  and  fatigue.  The  exhilaration  caused  by 
the  mountain  atmosphere  induces  the  traveler  or  sight- 
seer to  exercise  to  excess;  this  uses  up  so  much  nerve 
force  that  imperfect  digestion  results,  following  which 
comes  intestinal  auto-intoxication;  and  that  is  what  moun- 
tain fever  is. 

Mountain-climbers  are  not  equally  subject  to  moun- 
tain sickness.  This,  of  course,  is  true  of  every  section  of 
the  country.  It  is  said  that  the  lack  of  oxygen,  the  in- 
creased cold,  and  the  fatigue  have  much  to  do  with  bring- 
ing on  mountain  sickness.  Obviously  harm  must  follow 
an  increased  appetite  and  a  decrease  in  oxygen  supply. 


24 


Food 


The  symptoms  of  mountain  sickness  are  a  feeling  of 
growing  malaise;  pains  in  the  legs,  especially  the  knees; 
the  mouth  fills  with  saliva;  sickness  of  the  stomach,  fol- 
lowed by  vomiting  of  food;  and,  in  severe  attacks,  bilious 
and  even  blood  vomiting.  In  the  advanced  stages  of  the 
disease,  pain  in  the  bowels  and  diarrhea  set  in. 

According  to  Paul  Bert:  "If  the  rarefaction  corre- 
sponds to  pressure  existing  at  6,000  feet  of  altitude,  the 
oxygen  diminishes  thirteen  per  cent;  at  9,000  feet, 
twenty-one  per  cent;  at  25,000  feet,  fifty  per  cent."  He 
thinks  oxygen  starvation  causes  death  in  these  high  alti- 
tudes, and  experiments  that  he  has  carried  out  have 
proved  that  he  is  right. 

By  "becoming  acclimated"  is  meant  that  the  blood 
acquires  an  increased  capacity  for  absorbing  oxygen; 
which  means  an  increase  in  the  red  corpuscles  and  an  in- 
crease in  the  iron  contents.  This  being  true,  patients 
suffering  form  anemia,  and  especially  chlorosis,  will  find 
benefit  in  living  in  high  altitudes. 

This  is  according  to  the  best  medical  authority.  I  will 
say  in  this  connection,  however,  that  such  diseases  are 
brought  on  from  imprudent  eating.  My  experience  is 
that  anemic  and  chlorotic  patients  eat  foods  that  are  de- 
void of  oxygen,  until  they  lose  their  power  for  carrying 
oxygen.  Why  should  not  this  be  true?  Nature  removes 
an  organ  no  longer  used.  If  oxygen  is  not  taken  into 
the  system  in  large  enough  quantities  to  supply  work  for 
the  red  corpuscles,  there  will  be  a  gradual  diminution  of 
these  corpuscles  to  correspond  with  requirements.  High 
altitudes  force  breathing;  hence  the  demand  for  more 
blood  corpuscles,  and  the  supply. 

To  those  who  are  anemic  or  chlorotic  I  will  say:  If 
resort  to  a  high  and  dry  altitude  cannot  be  taken,  do  not 
be  discouraged;  stay  at  home  and  get  well.  Stop  sugar-, 
candy-,  and  cake-eating;  use  sugar  in  foods  very  sparingly. 
Eat  uncooked  fruit,  also  salads  made  from  fresh,  crisp 


Introduction 


25 


vegetables,  or  a  slaw,  every  day;  and  teach  yourself  deep 
breathing. 

Pulmonary  tuberculosis  is  a  disease  supposed  to  be 
best  treated  when  sent  to  high  and  dry  altitudes.  This 
supposed  benefit  is  not  without  its  drawbacks.  All  lung 
cases  with  a  high  pulse-rate  should  seek  as  dry  a  climate 
as  possible,  but  avoid  altitudes  more  than  a  mile  above 
sea-level. 

I  have  learned  from  observation  that  those  who  are 
well  advanced  with  pulmonary  tuberculosis,  and  who  have 
a  high  pulse-rate,  die  off  very  rapidly  when  brought  to 
Denver. 

If  it  is  a  fact  that  more  lung  capacity  is  needed  in 
high  altitudes,  is  it  wise  to  force  diseased  lungs  to  ex- 
pand? Oxygen  starvation  is  one  of  the  symptoms  of 
tuberculosis,  due  to  imperfect  lung  action.  The  lungs 
of  these  subjects  are  not  used  to  their  full  capacity,  and, 
as  the  disease  advances,  breathing  grows  more  shallow, 
because  the  lungs  grow  more  sensitive  to  the  air.  Cold 
air  irritates  and  causes  coughing,  and,  to  avoid  coughing, 
the  patient  learns  to  breathe  in  a  more  shallow  manner 
all  the  time;  and,  of  course,  the  less  oxygen  taken  in,  the 
less  food  is  digested,  and  the  farther  away  from  health 
the  victim  drifts. 

Sleeping-porches  and  other  devices  for  furnishing 
fresh  air  and  a  greater  oxygen  consumption  have  been  a 
dominating  fad  since  a  few  years  ago,  when  it  was  the 
custom  to  have  patients  sit  out  of  doors  in  the  coldest 
weather — wrapped,  of  course,  enough  to  keep  warm. 

Obviously  both  plans  are  rather  more  detrimental 
than  good.  The  object  is  fine,  for  it  is  necessary  to  have  as 
pure  air  as  possible;  but  the  good  is,  according  to  my  way 
of  thinking,  more  than  offset  by  the  irritating  effect  of  the 
cold  on  the  lungs.  Reader,  stop  and  think:  These  pa- 
tients are  in  heated  houses  all  day,  and  some  of  them  in 
superheated  houses.     At  night  they  breathe  an  atmos- 


26 


Food 


phere  many  degrees  colder  than  it  is  throughout  the  day. 
The  house  temperature  through  the  day  is  seventy  degrees 
Fahrenheit,  or  more;  while  on  the  porch  it  ranges,  in 
Denver,  from  thirty-two  degrees  above  to  ten  degrees 
below  zero.  The  range  is  from  thirty-eight  to  eighty  de- 
grees. Can  anyone  with  common-sense  believe  that  a 
weak,  diseased  lung  will  thrive  subjected  every  twenty- 
four  hours  to  such  extremes  of  temperature? 

If  the  above  is  true,  the  modern  treatment  of  this  dis- 
ease could  not  possibly  be  much  worse. 

If  houses  are  as  clean  as  they  should  be;  if  bedding 
is  as  clean  as  bedding  should  always  be,  patients  will  do 
much  better  in  a  closed  house — closed  up  for  the  entire 
night — and  fire  enough  to  keep  the  night  temperature 
within  ten  or  twenty  degrees  of  the  day  temperature. 

All  of  us  (doctors  and  laymen)  must  go  through  the 
fresh-air  insanity.  Converts  to  new  thoughts,  or  old 
thoughts,  are  always  near-sighted,  enthusiastic,  and  even 
fanatical  in  their  application.  The  fresh-air  craze  has 
surely  killed  its  quota.  Filthy  houses  have  done  their 
share.  Now  sensible  people  should  split  the  difference 
and  keep  both  foul  and  cold  air  out  of  their  lungs.  To 
encourage  those  who  read  this,  I  will  say:  The  composi- 
tion of  the  atmosphere  is  always  the  same,*  and,  like  all 
organs,  it  is  maintained  at  the  same  composition,  and 
must  remain  so  until  destroyed;  and  along  with  its  de- 
struction must  go  all  animal  life. 

It  is  all  nonsense  to  talk  about  burning  up  or  breath- 
ing out  of  the  atmosphere  all  the  oxygen.  If  houses  are 
clean,  no  harm  will  come  to  the  sick  by  closing  doors 
and  windows  to  prevent  them  from  chilling  their  lungs 


♦This  does  not  mean  that  the  air  of  proper  composition 
cannot  be  made  the  vehicle  of  filth.  Houses,  bedding,  cloth- 
ing, and  the  body  must  be  clean. 


Introduction 


27 


and  blood  by  breathing  an  atmosphere  much  colder  than 
their  bodies. 

Harm  from  breathing  cold  air  does  not  end  with 
simply  causing  irritation;  the  patient's  nerve  energy  is 
used  up  in  resisting  the  cold.  It  takes  nerve  energy  to 
resist  cold;  it  takes  nerve  energy  to  digest  food.  This 
being  true,  should  not  sick  people  be  kept  in  a  warm 
atmosphere,  and  fed  on  food  that  will  nourish  the  body 
at  the  least  expenditure  of  energy  in  digestion? 

It  is  a  mistake  for  sick  people  to  live  in  an  atmos- 
phere so  cold  that  wool  or  other  heavy,  impervious  under- 
wear is  thought  to  be  necessary  to  keep  the  body  warm. 
Air  is  a  tonic  and  stimulant  to  the  skin,  and,  neither  last 
nor  least,  it  is  a  disinfectant.  To  keep  the  surface  of  the 
body  sweet  and  clean,  air  must  get  to  it,  and  it  cannot 
when  the  body  is  swathed  in  tight-fitting  woolen  or  other 
underwear.  Open- woven  cloth  is  better;  no  underwear  at 
all  is  best. 

It  matters  not  how  clean  a  housewife  may  be — if  she 
does  not  air  her  closets  and  clothing,  she  cannot  boast 
of  her  cleanliness.  Men  who  ruin  their  homes  with  to- 
bacco smoke,  rendering  them  unfit  for  women  and  chil- 
dren to  live  in,  certainly  pay  a  lot  for  their  pleasure.  I 
have  known  of  invalid  wives  who  could  get  well  if  their 
homes  could  be  freed  from  stale  tobacco  smoke.  In- 
valid wives  are  expensive. 

A  part  of  humanity  live  in  ill-smelling  houses  and 
clothing.  Many  men  think  they  are  excused  for  "stinking 
like  'ell"  because  their  work  is  dirty.  This  is  not  neces- 
sary. Grease,  smoke,  dust,  and  iron  rust  or  filings  will 
make  the  clothes,  hands,  and  face  dirty;  but  I  deny  that 
it  is  necessary  for  any  man  to  emit  an  odor  that  is  offen- 
sive. 

•  Women  who  take  advantage  of  dirty  work  as  an 
excuse  for  making  themselves  a  nuisance  from  malodor 
should  be  boycotted.    It  is  no  disgrace  to  do  work  that 


28 


Food 


makes  one's  body  and  clothes  dirty;  but  there  never  can 
be  any  excuse  for  filth,  and  the  odor  that  accompanies  it. 
People  who  are  filthy  are  a  menace  to  society  and  should 
be  taken  care  of  by  the  health  authorities,  in  the  same 
way  that  all  decomposition  is  cared  for. 

Air  and  dust,  sometimes  called  dirt,  are  aseptic  and 
antiseptic.  Dust  is  fought  against  by  housewives,  and 
cities  hold  it  down  with  the  sprinkling  carts.  In  this  way 
one  of  nature's  health-imparting  agencies  is  made  in- 
efficient. 

Winds  and  storms  are  necessary;  they  are  nature's 
sanitary  measures.  Wind  is  necessary  for  lowlands  and 
low  altitudes.  Canyons  are  frequently  swept  by  winds — 
the  reason  given  being  that  they  act  as  chimneys  for  con- 
veying hot  air  out  of  the  plains:  the  hot  air  rises  and 
the  cold  air  goes  to  the  bottom,  creating  currents.  These 
winds  are  sanitary;  they  carry  out  of  the  canyons  mal- 
odors,  and  antisepticize  the  accumulated  decomposition. 

Vegetation  grows  more  luxuriantly,  everything  being 
equal,  in  a  windy  country  than  it  does  in  a  windless  coun- 
try. Trees  grow  more  rapidly  in  Kansas  because  of  its 
winds.  Chicago  is  noted  for  large,  fine-looking  girls,  and 
wind.    The  relationship  is  obvious. 

Walls  of  wood  and  stone  around  private  residences  in 
cities  are  menacing  to  the  health  of  the  neighborhood. 

Houses  for  stock  and  chickens  should  be  nothing  more 
than  wind-breaks — never  air-tight  pens  or  houses.  All 
that  animals  need  are  wind-breaks;  they  do  not  need 
warm  houses,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  such  protec- 
tion is  often  given  as  a  matter  of  economy — the  warmer 
the  animal  is  kept,  the  less  food  is  needed.  But  this  is 
economy  at  the  expense  of  health.  Warm  houses  and 
tuberculosis  are  close  friends,  and  are  found  among  the 
human  animals  as  well  as  the  brute  animals. 

The  more  air  we  breathe,  the  better  our  digestions  will 
be.    Warm,  close  houses  are  not  so  menacing  to  health 


Introduction 


29 


as  people  generally  believe.  The  real  health-destroyer  in 
our  houses  is  dirt  that  is  taking  on  septic  change:  dirty 
clothes,  kept  in  closets  that  cannot  be  ventilated  and  are 
not  cleaned ;  decaying  food,  and  never  thoroughly  cleaned 
pantries  and  ice-chests;  old  beds  that  are  dressed  with 
nice,  white  pillows  and  spreads — veritable  whited  sep- 
ulchers;  and  then  the  habit  of  keeping  an  ill-smelling 
cesspool  under  the  diaphragm,  from  eating  beyond  the 
digestive  capacity. 

Keep  the  home,  in  every  corner  and  recess,  sweet  and 
clean;  keep  dirty  clothing  from  accumulating;  keep  the 
body  and  mind  clean;  then,  when  cold  weather  comes, 
it  will  not  be  necessary  to  keep  doors  and  windows  open 
or  to  sleep  out  of  doors.  Keep  clean  and  comfortable, 
and  avoid  shocking  the  lungs  and  nervous  system  by 
breathing  air  seventy  to  eighty  degrees  colder  at  night 
than  at  midday.  When  necessary  to  breathe  cold  air,  do 
so  in  action — when  walking,  exercising,  or  at  work.  Do 
not  sit  out  of  doors  wrapped  up,  or  sleep  out  of  doors. 

In  all  things  it  is  worth  while  to  take  a  common- 
sense  view;  and  in  the  care  of  the  body,  moderation — 
avoiding  fanaticism,  which  is  another  name  for  extremes 
— is  the  safer  practice,  and  much  more  conducive  to  long 
life  and  success. 

HEAT 

Heat  is  not  food;  yet  it  is  one  of  food's  most  impor- 
tant auxiliaries. 

A  temperature  of  approximately  ninety-eight  degrees 
Fahrenheit  is  necessary  to  insure  digestion  and  assimila- 
tion. A  continuous  temperature  of  one  degree  less  than 
normal  will  lead  to  physical  destruction  sooner  than  a 
continuous  temperature  of  one  degree  above  normal. 

Just  what  causes  the  increased  temperature  in  fevers 
is  an  unsolved  problem;  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  it 
ever  will  be  solved.    Every  case  of  fever  will  have  to  be 


30 


Food 


settled  individually;  for,  as  in  all  things  connected  with 
health  and  disease,  there  are  no  unitary  causes.  Every 
effect  depends  upon  multiple  causes. 

The  nervous  system  presides  over  organic  functioning. 
When  nerve  energy  is  below  normal,  the  functions  of 
secretion  and  excretion  are  impaired.  As  secretions  are 
necessary  to  digestion  and  assimilation,  these  functions 
are  impaired,  and,  excretions  being  imperfect,  the  waste 
products  are  retained  and  act  as  inhibitors  of  functioning. 

Following  this  state  will  be  cold  hands  and  feet. 
People  are  said  to  have  poor  circulation,  which,  indeed, 
is  true;  but  poor  circulation  must  have  an  explanation, 
for  those  two  words  are  meaningless  in  themselves.  Poor 
circulation  means  enervation;  means  that  nerve  energy  is 
low;  means  that  the  nerves  distributed  to  the  blood-ves- 
sels fail  to  impart  tonicity  to  their  muscular  and  fibrous 
coats,  stimulating  normal  contraction. 

Heart  and  blood-vessels  in  health  act  rhythmically — 
contract  and  relax — under  the  influence  of  nerve  energy; 
and  this  causes  what  we  know  as  circulation  of  the  blood. 

Nerve  energy  is  necessary  to  keep  up  the  blood  cir- 
culation and  the  normal  temperature  of  the  body  indi- 
cated by  warm  feet  and  hands. 

Anything  that  uses  up  nerve  energy  brings  on  enerva- 
tion and,  as  hinted  before,  impairment  of  the  functions  of 
secretion  and  excretion.  The  lungs  fail  to  exchange  car- 
bonic-acid gas  for  oxygen  gas.  When  there  is  imperfect 
exchange  of  gases  in  the  lungs,  digestion  is  impaired;  for 
perfect  digestion  requires  that  oxygen  be  brought  in  by 
the  lungs. 

Nerve  energy  and  heat  are  generated  when  the  oxygen 
in  the  blood  of  the  arteries  acts  upon  the  carbon  in  the 
veins;  and  when,  from  any  cause,  the  supply  of  oxygen 
is  low,  heat  is  not  generated,  and  cold  hands  and  feet 
follow.  The  remedy  must  be  to  remove  the  first  cause 
of  enervation.    What  is  it?     Excessive  eating,  drinking, 


Introduction 


31 


enjoying,  working,  or  what  not.  The  feeding  must  be  in 
keeping  with  digestive  limitations,  not  in  keeping  with  the 
bodily  needs.  The  chasm  that  exists  between  my  dietetic 
system  and  every  other  system  that  I  have  heard  of  is  too 
great  to  be  bridged  with  any  possible  compromise.  I 
feed  my  patients  in  keeping  with  their  digestive  capacity, 
while  all  others  endeavor  to  force  feeding  in  keeping 
with  apparent  systemic  needs,  without  respect  or  consid- 
eration for  the  patient's  ability  to  digest  or  assimilate. 

The  foods  that  furnish  heat  are  the  carbohydrates. 
Sugar  is  the  most  rapid  heat-producer,  fat  next,  and 
starch  next. 

An  oversupply  of  heat-producing  foods,  indulged  in 
continually,  will  end  in  great  enervation  and  whatever 
disease  the  individual  has  a  predisposition  to  develop. 

When  sugar  is  eaten  beyond  the  system's  needs,  it 
will  not  be  acted  upon.  If  all  were  used  up  and  heat 
generated,  life  would  be  put  out  from  hyperpyrexia,  or 
overheating.  The  amount  taken  above  the  body's  needs 
will  go  out  of  the  body  by  way  of  the  kidneys  or  bowels; 
not,  however,  without  more  or  less  injury  to  those  organs 
of  excretion.  It  is  a  mistake  to  believe  that  we  may  in- 
dulge ourselves  beyond  the  system's  needs,  with  any  food 
or  drink,  with  impunity.  Indeed,  the  surplus  is  a  tax  on 
energy  to  get  rid  of  it,  and  this  tax  divides  the  work  of 
nutrition.  Ideal  nutrition  cannot  be  had  when  its  work 
is  interfered  with  by  the  unnecessary  work  of  eliminating 
a  lot  of  unnecessary  material. 

It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  the  law  of  correlation 
of  forces  must  govern  in  the  matter  of  food  and  nutrition, 
the  same  as  in  dealing  with  natural  law  anywhere  in  the 
realm  of  knowledge  and  science. 

Heat  is  being  consumed  when  the  body  is  in  pain; 
when  overclothed  or  overworked;  and  when  mentally 
worried,  depressed,  or  overjoyed. 


32 


Food 


Fever  is  not  an  indication  of  the  generation  of  sur- 
plus heat.  Indeed,  quite  the  contrary  is  true;  for  the 
body  is  not  generating  so  much  as  when  normal.  The 
reason  for  the  excessive  temperature  is  that  nerve  energy 
is  impaired;  elimination  of  the  skin  and  kidneys  is  sus- 
pended, and,  as  a  result,  the  excretions  are  retained.  One 
of  the  functions  of  the  skin  is  to  radiate  heat.  If,  through 
food  or  other  poisoning,  the  nerve  energy  supplied  to  the 
skin  is  cut  off,  heat  is  retained  in  the  body.  If  the  cause 
is  infection  from  an  injury,  or  pent-up  decomposition  in 
the  bowels,  the  source  of  infection  must  be  got  rid  of  a3 
soon  as  possible;  then  the  temperature  will  run  down. 
Physicians  in  general  practice  often  see  an  increase  of 
temperature  from  two  or  three  to  five  and  six  degrees 
Fahrenheit  following  indigestion  caused  by  overeating, 
and  if  the  indiscretion  is  not  repeated,  the  fever  may  sub- 
side in  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours. 

After  childbirth  or  abortion,  if  from  any  cause  the 
uterine  discharge  becomes  pent  up,  pain  and  fever  will 
quickly  follow.  If  understood,  however,  and  the  womb 
washed  out,  and  drainage  established,  pain  and  increased 
temperature  will  be  controlled  at  once,  never  to  return, 
unless  the  cause  is  allowed  to  return. 

Pain  prevents  the  physiological  manufacture  of  heat, 
and  if  it  did  not  stop  radiation,  the  patient  would  prob- 
ably die  from  refrigeration — from  loss  of  all  bodily  heat. 
Hence  fever  may  be  looked  upon  as  one  of  the  most 
remarkably  and  uniquely  conservative  acts  in  all  the  world 
of  subconscious  self-protection. 

Health  and  long  life  cannot  be  looked  for  by  those 
who  are  careless  and  indifferent  about  keeping  their  ex- 
tremities warm.  Cold,  clammy  hands  and  feet  indicate 
malnutrition,  and  must  be  cured  by  correcting  the  bad 
daily  habits  that  build  this  symptom. 

Until  the  extremities  keep  warm  from  restored  circu- 
lation, following  the  correcting  of  the  disease-producing 


Introduction 


33 


habits,  artificial  heat  must  be  used  to  keep  the  feet  warm. 
Covering  on  the  feet  and  legs  to  the  knees  should  be 
double  the  weight  of  that  over  the  body  and  shoulders; 
or  a  jug  of  hot  water  may  be  kept  at  the  foot  of  the  bed 
to  use  when  necessary.  Do  not  sleep  with  the  feet  against 
the  heater.  Through  the  day,  if  sitting  much,  an  electric 
pad  should  be  used.  Keep  the  feet  warm,  and  prevent 
further  decline  in  health. 

Do  not  overclothe  in  an  effort  to  keep  warm.  Light- 
weight, open-woven  underwear,  with  heavy  top  clothing 
when  going  out,  is  the  proper  way  to  meet  the  cold. 

Heat  of  summer  can  be  easily  borne — in  fact,  en- 
joyed— if  the  eating  is  correct.  Cut  the  heat-producing 
foods  down  to  the  minimum:  meat,  with  all  fat  trimmed 
away,  not  oftener  than  once  a  day  or  three  times  a  week; 
fruit  and  salads,  with  milk  and  cheese;  bread  once  a  day 
for  those  who  are  not  overweight.  Wear  only  the  light- 
est-weight, open-woven  underwear. 

People  who  persist  in  overeating  must  be  made  very 
uncomfortable,  and  they  are  the  people  who  meet  with 
prostrations  and  sunstrokes. 

Workmen  who  are  subjected  to  great  heat  should 
leave  starch,  fats,  and  sugar,  or  any  form  of  sweets,  alone. 
Drink  freely  of  pure  water — positively  no  alcoholics;  for 
lunch,  ice-cream  and  fruit.  The  ice-cream  is  sweet  and 
fat,  and  evolves  heat.  Its  effects  should  be  watched,  and 
if  the  heat  is  harder  to  endure  on  days  that  the  ice-cream 
is  used,  it  would  be  wise  to  stop  it. 

Ices  may  be  used  too  often,  and  to  the  detriment  of 
health.  The  injurious  effects  of  all  classes  of  foods  are  so 
little  known  by  laymen,  and  even  by  physicians,  that  few 
are  willing  to  believe  that  their  favorite  "bonnes  bouches" 
cause  the  discomfort  they  experience.  I  see  people  daily 
suffering  so  greatly  that  they  are  driven  to  seek  relief 
and  cure;  yet  they  are  unwilling  to  part  with  the  habit 
that  causes  their  unhappiness.    Indeed,  it  is  almost  im- 


3* 


Food 


possible  to  convince  them  that  ill  can  come  from  so 
simple  a  pleasure. 

Iced  drinks  should  be  taken  in  great  moderation.  The 
cold-drink  habit  is  like  all  other  habits — it  grows  on 
what  it  feeds.  The  more  ice  used,  the  stronger  the  de- 
mand. A  drink  of  ice-water  taken  an  hour  after  a  hearty 
meal  often  generates  an  insatiable  thirst,  which,  if  sat- 
isfied, will  positively  cause  indigestion,  and  not  infre- 
quently start  a  derangement  that  may  end  in  typhoid  fever 
or  some  other  acute  malady;  or  a  chronic  irritation  may 
be  started  that  will  end  in  ulcer  or  cancer  of  the  stomach. 

Extremely  cold  drinks  and  extremely  hot  drinks  are 
equally  injurious.  The  very  sick  should  always  be 
watched,  and  artificial  heat  used  continually  to  keep  the 
extremities  warm. 

Thousands  and  thousands  have  died  who  would  have 
lived  if  that  one  little  chore  of  keeping  their  feet  warm 
had  been  attended  to  properly. 

If  it  could  be  generally  known  and  remembered  that 
the  function  of  heat-making  is  suspended  during  sickness, 
and  that  the  very  old,  the  very  young,  and  those  who  are 
greatly  run  down  are  liable  to  freeze  up — collapse — in 
the  hottest  weather,  deaths  from  this  cause  might  be  pre- 
vented by  seeing  to  it  that  they  are  kept  comfortably 
warm. 

Many  cholera-infantum  cases  die  every  summer — 
July  and  August — because  those  who  care  for  them  be- 
lieve the  babies  feel  the  heat  as  other  people  do,  and  no 
attention  is  given  to  keeping  them  warm.  Death  in  such 
cases  comes  from  chilling  or  freezing  to  death. 

Dry  heat  is  more  endurable  than  moist  heat.  A 
humid  atmosphere  is  very  enervating. 

Every  summer  nearly  all  cities  of  this  country  suffer 
deaths  from  heat-strokes. 

Sunstroke  usually  occurs  among  those  who  are  dissi- 
pated.   Sensuality  perhaps  covers  the  whole  class.    I  do 


Introduction 


35 


not  believe  any  suffer  from  this  disease  who  are  not  ener- 
vated from  sensuality. 

Those  who  work  in  overheated  places  and  are  food- 
or  alcohol-poisoned  are  in  line  for  heat  prostrations. 

Various  disorders  may  persist  after  a  recovery  from 
heat-stroke;  namely,  neuralgia,  headache,  and  sometimes 
strange  ideas  or  notions.  These  troubles,  however,  result 
as  much  from  wrong  daily  life  as  from  the  previous  sick- 
ness. Indeed,  such  cases  may  be  cured  of  these  relics 
of  former  sickness  if  the  patients  will  follow  a  proper 
style  of  living. 

COLD 

Cold  climates  are  said  to  be  more  healthful  than 
warm  climates.  I  am  not  prepared  to  accept  that  state- 
ment without  qualifications.  Under  correct  sanitary  con- 
trol, I  believe  that  warm  countries  are  more  conducive  to 
long  life  than  are  cold  countries;  but  under  neglected  and 
bad  dietetic,  hygienic,  and  sanitary  conditions,  cold  coun- 
tries are  better.  And,  of  all  countries,  those  of  high  alti- 
tudes are  best.  Decomposition  is  the  menace  to  health 
in  warm  countries;  the  people  die  of  sepsis — blood  poi- 
soning— and  hepatic  derangements;  whereas  in  cold  coun- 
tries health  and  life  are  menaced  by  overstimulation  and 
its  consequent  enervation. 

It  is  true  that  heat  is  enervating,  but  the  bad  habit 
of  eating  heat-producing  foods  in  hot  countries  causes  hot 
climates  to  be  more  unhealthful  than  is  natural.  Investi- 
gation will  show  that  there  are  more  people  who  grow 
old  in  warm  countries.  Cold  is  hard  on  old,  and  on  very 
young,  people. 

Explorers  of  the  polar  regions  state  that  they  stood 
a  temperature  of  from  forty  to  fifty  degrees  Fahrenheit 
below  zero,  without  suffering,  when  there  was  no  wind. 
It  is  said  that  life  may  be  maintained  at  from  seventy  to 
ninety-five  degrees  Fahrenheit  below  zero.     Authors  of 


36 


Food 


this  statement,  however,  counsel  against  exaggerating  the 
importance  of  this  fact.  On  an  average,  about  seven 
hundred  persons  perish  every  year  in  Russia  from  cold. 

All  ages  do  not  stand  cold  equally  well.  Adults 
resist  the  cold  best.    The  old  and  young  chill  easily. 

The  enervated,  or  those  with  weakened  nutrition, 
must  keep  warm. 

Discouragement,  overwork,  starvation,  or  any  in- 
fluences that  depress  the  mind  as  well  as  the  body,  render 
the  individual  unfit  to  stand  exposure  to  cold.  Any  ener- 
vating habit  removes  resistance  to  cold.  Drinking  of  alco- 
holics overcomes  man's  resistance.  Brandy-drinking,  as 
practiced  in  Russia,  often  causes  serious  suffering,  and  a 
few  fall  dead  on  being  exposed  to  extreme  cold  after  in- 
dulging. 

There  still  persists  a  popular  obstinacy  or  ignorant 
belief  that  alcoholics,  or  so-called  stimulants,  are  an  ad- 
vantage to  those  who  are  exposed  to  cold,  or  subjected 
to  fatiguing  labor.  The  truth  is  exactly  the  opposite  of 
this  belief;  for  alcohol,  in  any  form,  enervates  by  remov- 
ing the  normal  tonicity.  Man  in  a  full  state  of  health 
has  tone — a  normal  irritability  or  excitability — that  en- 
ables him  to  act  and  react  on  his  environment.  A  man 
in  full  vigor  can  control  or  react  or  strike  back,  but  the 
impotent  man  has  no  control  and  cannot  react  or  strike 
back.  The  rage  of  King  Lear  marks  the  acme  of  senile 
impotency.  Indeed,  anger  means  impotency;  the  greater 
the  lack  of  self-control,  the  more  impotency  is  marked. 

Alcohol  is  not  a  stimulant  nor  a  tonic;  it  is  a  drug 
that  deadens  sensation.  Hence  its  first,  last,  and  only 
effect  is  to  paralyze.  The  reason  why  drinkers  like  it  is 
because  it  deadens  sensation.  The  more  enervated  the 
alcoholic  habitue,  the  less  responsible  he  is  for  his  acts. 

To  send  a  drunkard  or  a  drug  fiend  to  the  electric 
chair  is  certainly  the  acme  of  social  stupidity.  We  have 
quit  legally  killing  those  whom  we  know  to  be  insane; 


Introduction 


37 


yet  we  are  slow  to  recognize  the  drunk  or  the  dope  fiends 
as  artificially  and  temporarily  insane. 

Fever  often  produces  mental  hallucinations,  but  these 
states  of  aberration  are  not  so  often  due  to  fever  as  to 
drugs.  Alcohol  and  opium  have  sent  many  patients 
through  windows  to  their  death.  Suicides  and  homicides 
are  oftener  the  acts  of  brains  crazed  with  drugs  than  the 
result  of  viciousness.  And  society  is  so  ignorantly  stupid 
as  to  license  drug  and  gin  shops,  and  clothe  physicians 
with  authority  to  build  lunatics  for  our  courts  to  run  into 
the  penitentiaries,  hang,  or  electrocute. 

Habits  are  easily  formed.  It  is  an  easy  matter  to  go 
from  alcohol  to  morphine.  These  drugs  do  not  act  the 
same,  yet  both  of  them  deaden  sensation  and  are  habit- 
forming,  and  both  produce  physical  and  mental  impo- 
tency.  It  matters  not  in  what  quantities  taken,  they 
weaken  resistance  and  render  those  who  use  them  less 
and  less  efficient  for  their  work. 

There  is  nothing  except  food  that  gives  man  strength. 
And  too  much  food — eating  beyond  the  digestive  capac- 
ity— will  cause  weakness.  When  food  is  taken  beyond 
digestive  capacity,  and  an  habitual  intestinal  fermenta- 
tion is  established,  the  individual  loses  his  power  to  keep 
warm.  Victims  of  this  state  may  put  on  the  heaviest 
clothing — and,  indeed,  they  usually  wear  heavy  woolen 
underwear,  often  two  suits,  and  the  heaviest  top  clothing 
— yet  the  more  clothing  they  put  on,  the  more  they  may. 
Still  there  is  no  comfort  for  them;  for  the  more  clothing 
put  on  the  body,  beyond  just  enough  to  protect  from 
wind  and  weather,  the  more  such  people  suffer  from 
cold.  Heavy  clothes  break  down  resistance,  and  if  the 
habit  of  wrong  eating  and  heavy  clothing  is  continued, 
the  refrigeration  of  death  will  relieve  the  unfortunate  vic- 
tims of  this  health-destroying  habit. 

When  a  man  is  in  full  health,  nothing  can  add  to  his 
strength.     Emotional  excitement  may  cause  him  to  use 


38 


Food 


all  the  power  he  has  for  the  moment,  but  the  result  is 
enervation  that  will  require  more  than  the  usual  amount 
of  rest  to  restore.  The  same  is  true  of  protection  with 
clothing.  The  body  in  health  has  power  to  protect  itself 
from  the  varying  temperatures.  It  can  adjust  itself  to 
all  degrees  of  heat  and  cold,  and  needs  no  protection 
except  from  inclemency.  And  when  these  facts  are  ig- 
nored and  artificial  protection  is  indulged  in,  self-protec- 
tion is  lost,  which  results  in  disease. 

Food  and  clothing  beyond  necessity,  close  houses, 
artificial  heat,  stimulants  (?)  and  tonics  ( } ) ,  make  a 
conglomeration  of  influences  that  spell  d-i-s-e-a-s-e  and 
early  death. 

The  body  should  be  protected  from  wind  and 
weather,  but  not  from  contact  with  the  air.  The  body 
must  live  in  the  air.  Open-woven  cotton  or  linen  under- 
wear, or  a  sleeveless  and  legless  light-weight  garment 
that  stands  for  cleanliness  rather  than  bodily  protection, 
is  all  that  is  necessary;  then  the  top  clothing  may  be  ad- 
justed to  be  in  keeping  with  the  weather  conditions. 

This  is  quite  the  opposite  of  what  is  recommended 
by  modern  medical  science.  But  it  should  be  known 
that  modern  medical  science  is  a  wonderfully  wrought- 
out  system  of  palliation  which  in  every  particular  "bor- 
rows from  Peter  to  pay  Paul;"  breaks  down  health  to 
relieve  suffering;  builds  a  fatal  disease  by  relieving  or 
palliating  an  innocent  one. 

In  the  matter  of  prescribing  for  those  who  are  break- 
ing themselves  down — becoming  so  enervated  that  the 
chill  of  death  is  sending  its  messengers  of  warning — the 
really  up-to-date  doctor  will  prescribe  heavy  woolen  un- 
derwear and  more  good,  nourishing  food;  and,  as  auxil- 
iaries, stimulants  and  tonics  to  quicken  the  circulation 
and  give  strength!  Such  trifling  with  health  and  life  is  a 
disgrace  to  our  civilization.  Patients  applying  for  advice 
— for  relief  from  such  symptoms — should  be  educated 


Introduction 


39 


into  health  habits;  not  turned  off  with  short-lived  pallia- 
tives that  will  become  allied  with  the  patient's  bad  habits 
to  hasten  his  destruction. 

Those  who  find  themselves  distressed  by  a  weather 
temperature  that  does  not  appear  to  inconvenience  those 
about  them  should  get  busy  correcting  bad  eating,  cloth- 
ing, and  housing  habits. 

Do  these  people  need  heat-producing  foods?  Most 
of  them  have  broken  themselves  down  by  overindulgence 
in  these  very  same  foods.  Will  they  be  benefited  by 
eating  more  of  them?  This  is  exactly  what  modern 
medical  science  declares;  and  the  result  is  more  breaking- 
down,  more  disease,  and  at  last  premature  death. 

Rest — physiological  and  physical — whole  or  partial 
withdrawal  of  food,  and  quiet  in  bed,  with  artificial  heat 
and  plenty  of  water,  will  soon  right  such  patients. 

As  soon  as  habitual  decomposition  in  the  bowels  is 
overcome,  these  patients  begin  to  warm  up;  feet  and 
hands  gradually  grow  warm;  the  mind  and  body  grow 
more  active;  the  outlook  becomes  brighter.  Often  this 
change  not  only  restores  physical  and  mental  health,  but 
it  puts  the  victim  on  a  solid  financial  basis.  People  poi- 
soned with  alcohol  or  drugs,  or  who  are  auto-intoxicated, 
stumble  over  opportunities  every  day;  they  see  others 
succeeding  by,  perhaps,  picking  up  the  opportunities  over 
which  they  themselves  have  stumbled. 

Those  who  are  cultivating  cold  feet  must  not  be  sur- 
prised to  find  themselves  lagging  behind  in  the  affairs 
of  life;  and  they  will  certainly  grow  more  diseases  from 
day  to  day. 

Death  is  a  coldness  that  knows  no  warning;  and  the 
unfortunate  person  who  has  cultivated  cold  hands  and 
feet  is  started  toward  that  final  state. 

The  greater  the  intensity  of  cold,  the  more  pro- 
nounced its  effects  on  the  parts  exposed.  At  three  or  four 
degrees  below  zero,  redness  is  excited ;  treble  the  amount 


40 


Food 


will  cause  swelling;  and  six  times  that  amount  of  cold 
will  result  in  gangrene. 

The  first  effect  of  cold  is  a  feeling  of  fatigue  and  a 
desire  to  sleep.  But  if  sleep  be  indulged  in,  there  will  be 
no  awaking. 

LIGHT 

Light  is  necessary  for  health.  Germ  life  is  destroyed 
by  it.  Plants  do  not  thrive  any  better  than  animals  in 
the  absence  of  light. 

Light  is  a  stimulant,  and  of  course  can  do  injury  to 
those  who  overindulge  in  it.  Those  who  chase  fad  cures, 
and  who  are  not  happy  until  everyone  is  in  the  ground 
too  deep  for  resurrection,  will,  while  taking  the  sun-bath 
cure,  blister  their  bodies  and  torture  themselves  in  every 
way,  that  the  sun's  rays  may  be  used.  When  this  so- 
called  cure  ceases  to  be  disagreeable,  they  will  decide 
that  the  remedy  has  lost  its  effect,  and  away  they  go 
searching  for  a  new  cure  that  will  be  disagreeable  enough 
to  be  curative.  A  cure  with  them  is  valued  according  to 
the  extent  of  its  disagreeableness.  The  cure  idea  with 
such  people  has  not  evolved  away  from  exorcism — dis- 
ease and  cure  still  being  a  system  of  demonism.  With 
the  profession  the  demon  has  dwindled  to  a  microscopic 
germ. 

Clothes  keep  the  light  away  from  the  body,  and,  be- 
cause of  this,  man  suffers  more  or  less  from  light  starva- 
tion. When  such  subjects  are  persuaded  by  a  mon- 
omaniac healer  to  expose  their  delicate  bodies  to  the 
direct  rays  of  the  sun,  they  will  be  very  uncomfortable. 

When  people  become  accustomed  to  living  in  Colo- 
rado, and  have  cultivated  the  sunshine  habit,  they  are  not 
satisfied  to  make  their  homes  in  a  country  where  the 
sunlight  is  shut  out  by  clouds  and  rain.  Light  builds 
optimism,  while  cloudiness  or  shade  causes  more  or  less 
pessimism. 


Introduction 


41 


Light  increases  the  amount  of  carbonic  acid  thrown 
off.  It  is  said  that  when  the  body  is  brought  into  the 
light  with  the  eyes  shaded,  carbonic  acid  rises  twelve  per 
cent;  then,  if  the  eyes  are  bared  and  the  body  covered, 
the  carbonic  acid  rises  to  fourteen  per  cent;  when  eyes 
and  body  are  exposed  simultaneously,  this  acid  rises  to 
thirty-six  per  cent,  exceeding  the  combined  separate  ex- 
posures by  ten  per  cent.  This  increase  indicates  more 
combustion;  and,  in  fact,  there  is  a  slight  elevation  of 
temperature.  In  children  it  ranges  from  one-tenth  to 
one-half  degree  Centigrade. 

The  sun's  rays,  either  direct  or  reflected,  will  cause 
a  skin  irritation — erythema- — accompanied  by  an  eleva- 
tion of  the  epidermis,  with  serous  liquid;  that  is,  the  skin 
blisters  and  causes  great  discomfort.  When  the  sun's 
rays  are  reflected  from  water,  the  action  on  the  skin  in 
one  day  is  very  pronounced. 

Pellagra  is  supposed  by  a  few  to  be  caused  by  the 
sun's  rays;  by  others,  to  be  caused  by  consuming  spoiled 
maize — corn.  It  has  not  been  my  privilege  to  see  more 
than  one  or  two  cases  of  pellagra;  but,  judging  from 
what  writers  say  about  it,  it  is  probably  caused  by  exces- 
sive starch-eating;  or  it  may  be  the  combined  effect  of 
starch,  sweet  (molasses),  and  the  sun's  rays  and  hot 
weather.  This  disease,  and  hookworm,  should  be  eradi- 
cated by  correcting  the  personal  habits  of  those  afflicted 
with  them.  It  is  a  mistake  to  look  for  a  unitary  cause  for 
these  diseases;  for,  as  with  all  others,  there  are  many 
causes,  and  just  what  causes  them  in  one  individual  may 
not  be  the  cause  in  another. 

Darkened  houses  are  proverbially  unwholesome 
houses.  All  houses  should  be  built  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
secure  as  much  light  as  possible.  When  light  is  furnished, 
air  is  sure  to  be,  and  provision  for  both  these  elements 
makes  it  almost  impossible  to  overheat. 


42 


Food 


Blue  rays  have  been  used  to  restore  hair;  Roentgen, 
or  X-rays,  and  violet  rays  are  used  to  treat  cancer;  and 
all  the  rays  of  the  spectrum  have  been  used  as  remedies 
for  diseases.  But  these  remedies  soon  fall  into  disuse 
because  of  lack  of  merit.  A  few  enthusiasts — specialists 
— on  skin  diseases,  or  cancer  specialists,  have  lost  their 
lives  from  administering  the  X-ray;  others  have  lost 
fingers,  hands,  and  arms.  I  have  seen  cancer  patients 
fearfully  burned  by  the  use  of  this  treatment — and  that, 
too,  without  corresponding  benefit. 

The  ability  of  radium  to  disorganize  tissue  has  caused 
it  to  be  used  and  recommended.  All  these  remedies, 
including  the  plaster  cure  made  from  escharotics,  appeal 
to  patients  as  well  as  to  doctors.  Why  not?  If  these 
remedies  can  cause  the  disease  to  drop  out,  "root  and 
all,"  what  can  possibly  do  more?  Commercialism  is 
just  now  exploiting  radium;  but,  like  all  cures  based  on 
a  false  theory  of  disease,  it  must  fail. 

The  professional  mind  seldom  thinks  farther  than  to 
the  radical  removal  of  the  disease.  That  the  cause  may 
hark  back  to  a  faulty  nutrition,  and  that  this  fault  may 
be  caused  by  one  or  more  of  a  thousand-and-one  enervat- 
ing causes,  is  not  thought  of;  or,  if  it  is,  no  consideration 
is  given  it.  It  is  easier  to  think  palliation  and  work  pallia- 
tives. 

It  is  doubtful  if  anyone  will  develop  a  cancer  who 
lives  in  a  properly  lighted,  aired,  and  heated  home,  takes 
reasonable  care  of  his  body  and  mind,  and  keeps  in- 
tensely interested  in  life. 

Shut  out  the  light  and  air  from  the  body  with  thick, 
closely  woven,  close-fitting,  and  overheating  underwear; 
live  in  a  house  in  keeping;  then  have  a  dietary  to  corre- 
spond, and  this  will  create  a  habitat  in  which  any  disease 
is  liable  to  spring  up  and  thrive. 

A  bright  light  held  before  the  eyes  and  gazed  upon  is 
liable  to  bring  on  a  state  known  as  artificial  slumber  or 


Introduction 


43 


hypnosis.  The  name  of  "Braidism"  is  given  to  this  phe- 
nomenon because  a  man  by  the  name  of  Braidy  dis- 
covered it. 

The  influence  of  light  and  shade  on  the  nervous  sys- 
tem must  be  very  great,  and  it  should  be  better  under- 
stood.   Let  us  hope  that  it  will  be. 

I  have  seen  young  children  thrown  into  convulsions 
by  allowing  a  bright  light  to  glare  into  their  faces  when 
they  were  nervous  and  feverish. 

Care  should  be  exercised  with  babies  to  prevent 
shocking  them  by  allowing  strong  lights  to  flash  into  their 
eyes. 

The  moving-picture  shows,  attended  frequently  and 
over  a  long  period  of  time,  will  create  nervous  derange- 
ments. No  doubt  many  are  being  injured  in  this  way. 
Those  with  functional,  as  well  as  organic,  diseases  are 
having  their  symptoms  aggravated  by  frequent  attend- 
ance at  these  shows;  but  they  have  not  suspected  the 
cause.  One  or  two  hours  at  a  picture  show  will  use  up 
as  much  nerve  energy  as  a  whole  day  at  the  usual  voca- 
tion. The  combined  effect  of  eye-  and  ear-strain  from 
overstimulation — the  picture  and  the  music — is  very 
strenuous  and  nerve-exhausting. 

SOUND 

The  nervous  system  of  those  who  live  in  large  towns 
and  cities  is  put  to  great  stress.  We  are  fast  approach- 
ing a  time  when  the  noise  nuisance  will  have  to  be  legis- 
lated out  of  existence,  the  same  as  other  nuisances  that 
have  been  squelched. 

The  automobile  need  not  be  a  nuisance,  but  it  cer- 
tainly is.  The  majority  of  people  who  drive  their  ma- 
chines act  as  though  they  had  a  special  commission  to 
make  as  much  noise,  split  as  much  air,  and  kick  up  as 
much  dust  as  possible. 


44 


Food 


Since  the  automobile  and  motorcycle  have  come  to 
stay,  there  has  sprung  up  a  type  of  people  who  really  be- 
lieve that  their  other  name  is  pandemonium.  Unless  they 
are  kicking  up  enough  noise  to  wreck  the  "nerve"  of  a 
political  lobbyist,  they  will  not  be  able  to  "split  the  ears" 
of  His  Majesty,  the  Prince  of  Perdition,  when  they  go  to 
him;  which  they  will,  for  they  certainly  will  be  out  of 
place  at  a  "rest"  resort.  The  average  chauffeur  plays 
with  the  cut-off  as  the  average  motorman  on  the  street 
car  plays  with  his  bell. 

The  street  car  is  made  up  of  the  quintessence  of  noise, 
and  the  motorman  has  become  so  noise-crazed  that  he 
clangs  his  bell — not  because  he  is  approaching  a  crossing; 
not  because  he  has  a  slow  coach  in  front  of  him,  but  be- 
cause he  is  playing  an  accompaniment  to  his  thoughts. 
He  thinks  noise,  hence  he  plays  noise. 

The  car  itself  is  a  gamester  of  noise  "par  excellence." 
But  health  declares  it  a  disgrace  to  civilization.  Not  the 
slightest  attention  has  ever  been  given  to  constructing  a 
silent- running  car;  it  is  put  together  so  that  every  part 
becomes  a  rival  of  every  other  part  in  creating  din. 
Then,  when  this  roar-monger  is  manned  by  a  real  bell- 
ringer,  hell  is  certainly  turned  loose  when  this  peace-  and 
quiet-destroyer  is  sent  over  a  street  every  thirty  to  sixty 
seconds.  There  is  positively  no  excuse  for  inflicting  such 
punishment  on  humanity.  Surprise  is  expressed  at  the 
number  of  people  committing  suicide  and  going  insane 
every  year.  Unless  commercialism  is  controlled  in  its 
selfishness,  it  will  fill  the  world  with  mad-houses  and 
penitentiaries. 

Fill  a  street  with  modern  cars,  and  a  lot  of  automo- 
biles with  their  cut-offs  opened  and  conks  conking,  and 
we  certainly  have  a  state  of  uproar  that  must  cause  degen- 
eration of  the  nervous  system  of  all  human  beings  sub- 
jected to  it. 


Introduction 


45 


Why  should  we  wonder  at  the  increase  of  insanity  and 
crime,  when  we  add  to  the  din  the  thousand-and-one 
other  nerve-destroying  habits  of  social  and  business  life? 

Every  lover  of  music  and  art  should  protest  without 
ceasing  against  the  growing  tendency  to  convert  this 
beautiful  world  into  a  hideous  nightmare  of  inharmony. 
When  it  is  admitted  that  "silence  is  more  musical  than 
any  song,"  why  should  the  mongers  of  noise  be  allowed 
to  rule? 

Is  there  anyone  so  simple-minded  as  to  need  to  be 
told  that  such  a  bedlam  as  exists  in  every  large  town  and 
city  is  subversive  of  ethics,  art,  and  religion?  The  beau- 
tiful, sonorous,  and  euphonious  sounds  are  suppressed  by 
the  uproar,  and  the  prospective  mothers  of  the  coming 
race  are  forced  into  developing  a  distorted  nervous  sys- 
tem with  which  to  propagate  the  species. 

We  must  certainly  expect  to  reap  as  we  sow.  Can 
any  but  the  fool  believe  that  we  can  sow  inharmony  and 
reap  harmony — sow  pandemonium  and  reap  Utopias? 

Disagreeable  sounds,  smells,  sights,  tastes,  and  feel- 
ings are  so  intimately  united  and  blended  with  commer- 
cialism that  there  is  little  hope  of  overcoming  them.  With 
this  it  is  the  same  as  with  disease-producing  beliefs  and 
so-called  cures.  The  present  style  of  curing  and  im- 
munizing is  so  much  a  part  of  Rockefeller's  millions,  and 
other  millions,  that  there  is  no  hope  of  any  considerable 
reform.  The  masses  move  along  tied  to  the  yoke  of 
mammon;  the  poor,  sick  fools  denounce  the  system  that 
they  declare  usurps  and  exploits  them;  yet  in  every  other 
way  they  uphold  it  with  ballot  and  voice. 

The  noise  system  is  a  cheap-John  scheme.  It  gets 
up  cars  as  cheaply  as  possible — which  means  that  they 
must  be  noisy.  It  charges  as  much  as  the  law  will  allow. 
The  patrons  are  shaken  and  jolted  as  only  a  springless 
and  bumperless  car  or  wagon  can  shake  or  jolt;  and  then 
their  finer  senses  are  shocked,   through  the  auditory 


46 


Food 


nerves,  by  the  noise  that  almost  prevents  thinking.  All 
this  wears  out  the  patron;  it  injures  him  as  a  citizen;  his 
health  is  impaired.  The  health,  morality,  estheticism, 
and  artistic  development  of  the  people  of  any  city  may 
largely  be  measured  by  its  cleanliness  and  absence  of 
noise.  A  public  utility  that  is  grossly  selfish,  and  tears  the 
people  down  to  lift  itself,  is  certainly  penny-wise  and 
pound-foolish. 

When  people  are  nervous,  they  lack  in  judgment — 
they  do  not  make  the  progress  in  trades,  professions, 
arts,  music,  and  business  that  they  should.  A  city  made 
up  of  noise-crazed  people  will  not  make  progress  in  a 
substantial  way.  Why?  Because  noise-crazed  people 
are  nervous,  selfish,  disloyal,  and  unable  to  see  that  to 
gratify  themselves  to  the  detriment  of  the  city's  best  in- 
terests is  to  cut  their  own  economic  throats.  This  is  ex- 
actly what  every  street-car  company  is  doing  when  its 
economy  lowers  the  moral,  health,  and  sanity  standard 
of  its  patrons. 

Make  a  city  clean  and  quiet — or  as  nearly  noiseless 
as  possible.  Every  utility  should  be  run  in  the  interests 
of  its  patrons,  on  the  principle  that  people  well  served 
are  happy,  healthy,  and  prosperous,  and  possess  drawing 
power.  They  attract  other  people  to  their  city.  Such  a 
city  grows;  its  property  advances;  and,  according  to  the 
law  of  "like  attracts  like,'*  a  prosperous  community  at- 
tracts prosperity. 

All  physicians  who  know  that  sickness  is  brought  on, 
wittingly  or  unwittingly,  from  practicing  many  bad  habits, 
and  from  unwholesome  environments,  by  wearing  out  the 
nervous  system  with  a  lot  of  unnecessary  noise,  or  by 
any  influence  that  uses  up  nerve  energy,  know  that  rest 
is  one  of  the  most  important  elements  in  a  therapeutic 
regimen — rest  of  body  and  mind.  This  means  that  the 
body  must  not  labor;  that  the  mind  must  not  labor;  and 


Introduction 


47 


that  the  nerves  of  special  sense — namely,  sight,  sound, 
taste,  smell,  and  touch — must  rest  from  labor. 

Everything  may  be  done  for  a  broken-down  indi- 
vidual except  securing  quiet — absence  from  noise;  and  if 
this  requirement  alone  is  neglected,  restoration  to  health 
will  not  take  place.  Nervous  people  must  secure  rest 
from  noise,  because  nothing  is  so  uncompromisingly  de- 
structive to  the  nervous  system  as  noise. 

It  is  the  duty  of  parents  to  control  children.  When 
several  get  together,  they  are  inclined  to  push  their  fun- 
making  to  excess,  and  from  small  noises  they  go  to  larger 
and  larger,  until  they  become  hysterical.  If  this  is  per- 
mitted day  after  day,  the  decidedly  nervous  temperament 
will  lose  more  or  less  power  over  co-ordination,  and  this 
will  lead  to  chorea  or  St.  Vitus*  dance. 

Light,  very  restricted  eating,  and  quiet  in  bed,  with 
visits  from  children  interdicted,  is  the  proper  treatment. 
Such  patients  must  be  kept  in  bed  until  every  sign  of 
muscle-twitching  has  subsided. 

After  nervous  children  recover,  a  limit  must  be  set 
to  the  amount  of  play  indulged  in;  and  excitement  of  all 
kinds  must  be  avoided.  The  diet  of  such  children  must 
be  simple:  toasted  non-yeast  bread,  butter,  and  milk  for 
two  meals  each  day;  and  fruit,  cottage  cheese,  and  milk 
for  one  meal.    Quiet  and  rest  is  the  principal  remedy. 

Net  many  know  that  music  has  other  qualities  besides 
the  power  to  "soothe  the  savage  breast;"  or  perhaps  I 
would  better  say  that  most  people  think  that  only  good 
can  come  from  music.  Inharmony  disturbs  rhythm,  and 
anything  that  interferes  with  rhythm  strikes  at  the  base  of 
development  and  interferes  with  growth — nutrition. 

Everything  capable  of  producing  an  effect  may  be 
said  to  have  at  least  four  influences;  namely:  a  good,  nat- 
ural, or  wholesome  influence;  then  an  excessive,  defective, 
and  perverted  influence.  This  is  true  of  music.  I  know 
of  people  who  are  made  very  miserable  by  music — it 


48 


Food 


might  be  said  that  they  are  badly  influenced  by  it.  Then 
there  are  strong,  healthy  people  who  are  driven  almost 
mad  by  poor  or  defective  musical  execution,  but  who 
thrive  in  an  atmosphere  of  harmony. 

All  people  are  not  attuned  to  the  same  key;  or  it 
may  be  possible  that  it  is  easier  to  adjust  the  nervous 
system  to  the  different  tones  than  to  fall  into  harmony 
with  varying  time. 

Sensitive  children  drive  themselves  into  nervous  pros- 
tration by  the  inharmony  they  produce  when  compelled 
to  spend  long  hours  in  practice. 

It  may  be  that  only  inharmony  (noise  called  music) 
is  to  blame  for  the  nervousness  I  have  seen  in  music- 
teachers  and  their  pupils;  but  I  know  that  many  suffer 
much  from  music,  or  the  noise  of  practice,  or  butchered 
harmony.  Of  course,  there  are  other  influences  which 
must  be  considered  besides  the  noise  of  musical  instru- 
ments. They  are  food,  mental,  and  physical  bad  habits 
that  help  noise  build  nervousness  and  break  nervous  peo- 
ple down. 

School  children  are  overworked.  School,  music,  and 
social  duties  wear  some  of  those  who  are  food-poisoned 
to  nerve  exhaustion. 

ELECTRICITY 

Electricity  is  a  mode  of  motion.  It  is  said  to  be  in- 
terchangeable with  light,  heat,  cold,  and  sound.  The 
power  of  the  waterfall,  and  mechanical  energy  generally, 
may  be  converted  into  electricity,  and  it  may  be  gen- 
erated by  transforming  chemical  energy  also. 

Life  may  be  looked  upon  as  a  mode  of  motion;  or,  if 
you  please,  transformed  light,  heat,  and  electricity. 

Animal  life  cannot  be  suspended  longer  than  a  few 
minutes  at  a  time,  with  any  hope  of  resuming  its  mani- 
festation.   Hence  the  animal  body  is  provided  with  power 


Introduction 


49 


to  transform  light,  heat,  cold,  sound,  electricity,  air,  food, 
and  water  into  life;  and  it  also  stores  static  electricity. 

It  is  almost,  if  not  quite,  proved  that  the  energy  pre- 
siding over,  or  governing,  form  is  electrical  energy. 
Probably  all  formative  energy  is  electrical,  and  possibly 
the  question  of  sex  is  a  question  of  a  given  number  of 
electrons  in  the  atoms  comprising  embryonic  cells. 

The  ultimate  atom,  or  unit  of  matter,  according  to 
present  scientific  developments,  is  conceded  to  be  the 
electron,  which  is  declared  to  be  a  literal  atom  of  negative 
electricity. 

"Like  electricities  tend  to  repel  one  another,**  and, 
according  to  Lord  Kelvin,  the  atom  is  held  together  by 
a  core  of  positive  electricity,  which  is  known  as  an 
"ion.**  The  problem  of  atomic  architecture  is  to  recon- 
cile the  common  attraction  of  the  ion  for  all  the  electrons 
with  the  mutual  repulsion  of  the  electrons  themselves,  so 
as  to  produce  a  stable  structure. 

By  the  aid  of  mathematical  theory,  checked  by  actual 
experience  with  magnetized  needles — to  represent  elec- 
trons— floating  freely  in  water,  under  the  influence  of  a 
centrally  placed  electromagnet,  Professor  Thompson  has 
been  able  to  unravel  the  architecture  of  the  atom. 

The  atoms  of  the  different  "elements'*  vary  only  in 
the  number  and  arrangement  of  their  electrons;  every 
electron,  wherever  observed,  being  absolutely  identical 
with  every  other. 

Electrons  are  found  to  be  arranged  in  concentric  rings 
within  the  atom,  and  the  presence  of  a  certain  number 
of  them  in  each  ring  is  necessary  for  holding  any  given 
number  in  place  outside  of  them.  The  stability  of  the 
atom,  therefore,  depends  on  the  number  and  arrangement 
of  the  electrons  it  contains. 

Such  a  thing  as  an  absolutely  stable  atom — a  fixed, 
never-changing  atom — is  inconceivable. 


50 


Food 


Professor  J.  H.  Thompson,  of  Cambridge,  explains 
how  atoms  of  one  element,  by  losing  their  outer  ring  of 
electrons,  may  be  transformed  into  those  of  another. 
This  also  explains  or  suggests  a  law  of  natural  selection 
among  atomic  species. 

Of  the  many  atoms  that  have  attempted  to  gain  a 
place  for  themselves  during  the  countless  past  eons,  there 
are  some  eighty  that  have  survived. 

This  theory  is  consistent  with  evolution,  and  it  is  to 
be  hoped  that  it  will  be  proved  out  in  all  departments 
of  learning. 

However  much  I  should  like  to  extend  this  line  of 
thought,  I  realize  that  I  have  even  now  made  the  begin- 
ning of  this  subject  uninteresting  to  many  readers,  and  I 
must  confine  what  I  have  to  say  on  health  subjects  to  the 
understanding  of  those  without  scientific  or  technical  drill. 
Those  who  would  like  to  go  farther  should  read  the 
latest  books  on  scientific  development. 

We  have  seen,  according  to  the  latest  accepted  the- 
ories, that  atoms  are  in  reality  atomic  electric  batteries 
— that  each  atom  is  an  arrangement  of  electrons,  or  neg- 
ative atoms  of  electricity  with  a  central  core,  or  ion,  of 
positive  electricity. 

To  prevent  perplexity,  I  will  say  that,  from  present 
knowledge,  there  are  no  literal  atoms  except  electrons; 
all  other  so-called  atoms  are  compound  structures,  made 
up  of  positive  and  negative  electricity. 

Electrical  energy  is  hardly  ever  used  as  such,  and 
only  after  it  is  transformed  into  other  forms  of  energy; 
namely,  mechanical,  heat,  chemical,  and  light. 

Electricity  as  a  remedy  for  the  cure  of  disease  is  one 
of  the  fads  of  modern  therapeutics.  Outside  of  the  bene- 
fit derived  from  suggestion,  and  the  harm  caused  by  so- 
called  therapeutists  in  their  endeavor  to  cure  the  sick, 
there  is  nothing  in  the  remedy  as  understood  and  used 
today.    The  market  is  full  of  electric  belts,  garters,  amu- 


Introduction 


51 


lets,  rings,  hair-restorers,  oxonizers,  and  all  sorts  of  mon- 
strosities in  the  shape  of  instruments  and  appliances,  too 
numerous  to  mention.  Outside  of  the  suggestion  of 
cure,  or  what  the  patient  believes  will  take  place  after 
their  use,  they  are  not  worth  a  fig  a  carload. 

The  profession  uses  the  galvanic  and  faradic  currents; 
also  the  X-ray,  high-frequency,  and  static  electricity. 
Very  little  good  comes  from  any  of  these.  A  foreign 
body  and  broken  bones  may  be  diagnosed  by  the  X-ray, 
and  as  a  means  for  diagnosis  this  form  of  electricity  has 
come  to  stay.  For  the  generation  of  mechanical  power, 
electricity  is  used.  Vibratory  instruments  for  giving  me- 
chanical massage  are  beneficial ;  but  electricity  is  used  only 
as  a  generator  of  the  power.  X-ray  and  other  light- 
producing  agents  are  used  for  the  effect  of  the  light — for 
the  stimulation  and  tonic  action.  The  X-ray  can  and 
does  kill  the  tissues,  and  causes  sloughing.  Cancer  has 
been,  and  is  yet,  treated  with  electric  light.  Results  are 
unsatisfactory  and  doubtful.  The  radium  treatment 
causes  sloughing  of  tissue.  All  the  new-fangled  remedies 
are  not  a  whit  better  than  the  old-fashioned  escharotic 
drugs  that  have  been  used  in  the  manufacture  of  the  well- 
known  cancer  plasters;  some  of  which  are  "trained  to  eat 
out  only  the  cancerous  tissue,  root  and  all"! 

Electricity,  as  electricity,  cannot  be  utilized  by  the 
human  organism.  Only  as  electrons,  found  in  atomic  and 
cellular  life — in  organized  form — is  electricity  utilizable. 
The  idea  of  imparting  electrical  energy  to  the  human 
body  lacking  in  energy  is  one  of  many  common  errors. 

An  enervated  subject  cannot  be  forced  to  receive 
energy.  This  is  attempted  by  many  physicians  when  they 
undertake  to  force  food  on  those  who  are  run  down  and 
enervated  from  lack  of  digestive  power.  Nature  will 
not  stand  for  forcing  measures.  There  is  no  place  for 
heroic  treatment.     Every  vital  process  has  safeguards 


52 


Food 


thrown  about  it  by  nature,  and  those  guards  cannot  be 
ignored  or  torn  down  with  impunity. 

In  enervation,  organic  functioning  is  impaired.  This 
means  that  the  organism  is  deficient  in  power  to  take 
from  the  blood  such  matters  as  are  necessary  for  repair 
or  for  the  performance  of  its  normal  functioning.  The 
organism,  once  reduced  to  this  state,  will  remain  so, 
unless  the  necessary  rest  can  be  procured.  It  is  not  mere 
building  material  that  is  needed;  it  is  not  stimulation 
that  is  needed;  for  enervation  is  the  sequel  of  overstimu- 
lation. Rest  is  the  remedy;  and,  as  rest  is  secured,  elec- 
trical energy  will  be  supplied  by  food,  air,  water,  light, 
and  heat.  This  subtle  energy  cannot  be  forced  on  the 
organism  in  the  gross  manner  offered  by  the  bull-in-the- 
china-shop  methods  of  modern  medical  therapeutics;  an 
enervated  state  cannot  be  cured  other  than  by  physio- 
logical rest — fasting  and  physical  rest;  not  exercise,  work, 
stimulation,  and  starvation.  Electric  therapeutics  amounts 
to  but  little  more  than  chemical  or  mechanical  irritation. 
Locally  applied,  it  may  do  as  much  good  as  a  mustard 
plaster — act  as  a  counter-irritant. 

Giving  iron  to  those  who  are  anemic  or  dysemic,  and 
lime  to  those  who  need  lime,  is  on  the  same  order.  The 
rule  is  that  very  few  are  dysemic  because  their  food  is 
deficient  in  the  elements  needed.  The  cause  of  deficiency 
is  lost  selective  and  appropriative  power,  and  the  more 
of  the  inorganic  elements  offered  the  system  by  way  of 
drugs,  as  remedies  or  food,  the  more  the  dysemia  de- 
velops, until  the  unfortunate  victim  is  forced  from  func- 
tional to  organic  derangement,  and  on  to  premature 
death.  This  is  not  necessarily  a  rapid  development. 
Such  patients  are  seeking  in  vain  for  cures  for  from  ten 
to  twenty-five  years.  If  they  start  at  from  twenty-five  to 
thirty,  and  require  twenty-five  years  to  wear  out,  trying 
palliatives  and  false  cures,  they  certainly  die  early  enough. 


Introduction 


53 


Besides,  efficiency  has  been  wasted  in  physical  and  mental 
impairment  caused  by  disease  and  so-called  cures. 

If  present  scientific  developments  augur  well,  it  will 
not  be  long  before  we  shall  know  positively  that  elec- 
tricity, or  electrical  energy,  is  the  alpha  and  omega  of 
all  things;  and,  from  a  health  standpoint,  a  knowledge 
of  how  to  conserve,  utilize,  and  appropriate  this  energy 
will  be  the  "summum  bonum"  of  a  successful  therapeutics. 

The  most  we  know  today  of  how  to  supply  electric 
energy  is  to  have  the  enervated — the  impotent — rest.  In 
a  state  of  rest  this  energy  appears  capable  of  accumulat- 
ing; and  we  know  from  daily  observation  that  unrest, 
activity,  and  overstimulation  cause  its  dissipation. 

The  farmer  knows  that  rest  restores  energy  and 
potency  to  land  that  has  lost  its  fertility  from  use.  But 
he  does  not  know  that  ground  granite  or  feldspar  will 
restore  its  productiveness,  and  that  in  all  probability  the 
fertilizer  "par  excellence'*  contained  in  it  is  the  static 
electricity  that  has  entered  into  its  formation  and  is  lib- 
erated when  the  rock  is  made  into  bread. 

I  have  proved  out  on  electricity  as  a  remedy  the  same 
as  I  proved  out  on  the  regular  materia  medica. 

I  once  used  the  galvanic  current  in  treating  fibroid 
tumors,  and  believed  that  the  electricity  caused  absorp- 
tion. But  I  have  learned,  after  years  of  experience,  that 
the  only  really  effective  remedy  is  the  correcting  of  daily 
habits  which  break  down  resistance;  after  which,  physio- 
logical equilibrium  is  lost,  and  this  allows  cell-growth  to 
be  perverted. 

Lost  resistance  means  lack  of  energy — -lack  of  life 
force;  and,  according  to  the  few  hints  thrown  out  regard- 
ing the  electric  architecture  of  the  atoms,  when  enerva- 
tion is  pronounced,  there  is  probably  a  dissipation  of 
electricity — electrons — and  a  consequent  change  in  the 
structure  of  the  atoms  that  build  the  cells.  As  a  result, 
we  see  tumors  and  growths  of  different  kinds,  and  hard- 


54 


Food 


ening  of  tissue — arteriosclerosis — stone  formation,  etc. 
If  this  is  a  true  explanation  of  the  cause,  the  logical  rem- 
edy would  be  to  furnish  the  system  with  electricity;  but 
to  turn  the  battery  and  flood  the  body  with  a  great  cur- 
rent of  electricity  would  be  about  as  appropriate  or  log- 
ical as  to  tie  a  rock  around  the  neck  of  a  thirsty  man 
and  throw  him  into  a  river  to  relieve  his  need  of  water. 

Nature  never  supplies  wants  in  such  a  blustering  v/ay. 
The  rock  is  built  by  feeding  it  with  an  impalpable  supply. 
If  this  is  true  of  rock-building,  what  must  be  the  subtle- 
ness of  tissue-growth,  and  how  slight  the  change  required 
to  convert  normal  tissue  into  abnormal — healthy  flesh 
into  cancerous! 

Instead  of  flooding  the  surface  of  the  body  with  a 
current  of  electricity — which  the  use  of  a  battery  means 
— the  therapeutist  must  know  how  to  cause  the  body 
to  secure  its  electricity  from  the  air,  light,  and  food. 

The  average  work  done  by  physicians  and  surgeons 
in  their  application  of  remedies  is  what  one  would  expect 
of  a  house-painter  put  to  work  to  paint  a  portrait.  There 
is  a  lack  of  delicacy.  It  is  true  that  there  are  many  skilful 
and  delicate  operations  performed;  there  are  also  skilled 
matadors  and  butchers  who  perform  skilled  operations. 
We  should  not  hold  the  idea  that  expert  skill  in  operat- 
ing is  sufficient  excuse  for  operating.  I  say,  with  no  fear 
of  successful  contradiction,  that  the  majority  of  opera- 
tions performed  have  no  excuse  for  being  done  except 
that  they  are  done  skilfully.  In  treating  patients  with  elec- 
tricity, they  must  be  placed  in  a  state  favorable  to  receiv- 
ing the  inflow  as  offered  by  nature.  All  that  is  necessary, 
usually,  is  to  learn  in  what  way  this  energy  is  being  dis- 
sipated; then  stop  the  waste.  Indeed,  this  is  the  simple 
formula  for  supplying  the  human  body  with  all  its  needs. 


Introduction 


55 


METABOLISM 

Metabolism  is  necessary  if  food  is  to  be  utilized  by 
our  bodies.  Perhaps  it  will  be  well  to  define  this  process, 
so  that  the  lay  reader  may  read  with  better  understanding. 

In  regard  to  metabolism,  Liebig,  in  1  842,  made  pub- 
lic his  theory  that  it  was  not  carbon  and  hydrogen  that 
burned  in  the  body,  but  proteid,  carbohydrates,  and 
fats.  His  original  idea  was  that,  while  oxygen  caused  the 
combustion  of  the  fat  and  carbohydrates,  the  breaking- 
down  of  proteid  was  caused  by  muscular  work. 

It  has  been  shown,  however,  that  oxygen  does  not 
cause  the  decomposition  of  food  in  the  body,  but  that 
this  change  proceeds  from  unknown  causes,  and  the 
products  involved  unite  with  oxygen.  These  chemical 
changes  of  material  under  the  influence  of  living  cells 
are  known  as  "metabolism."  The  process  involves  two 
factors:  catabolism,  or  the  reduction  of  higher  chemical 
compounds  into  lower;  and  anabolism,  or  the  construc- 
tion of  higher  substances  from  lower  ones. 

Voit  declares  that — 

The  unknown  causes  of  metabolism  are  found  in  the  cells 
of  the  organism.  The  mass  of  these  cells  and  their  power  to 
decompose  materials  determine  the  metabolism.  It  is  abso- 
lutely proved  that  proteid  fed  to  the  cells  is  the  easiest  of  all 
the  food-stuffs  to  be  destroyed,  next  carbohydrates,  and  lastly 
fat.  The  metabolism  continues  in  the  cells  until  their  power 
to  metabolize  is  exhausted.  All  kinds  of  influences  may 
act  upon  the  cells  to  modify  their  ability  to  metabolize,  some 
increasing  it  or  others  decreasing  it.  To  the  former  category 
belong  muscular  work,  cold  (in  warm-blooded  animals),  abun- 
dant food,  and  warming  the  cells;  to  the  latter,  cooling  the 
cells,  certain  poisons,  etc. 

In  speaking  of  the  power  of  the  cells  to  metabolize,  I 
have  not  meant  thereby,  as  may  be  seen  from  all  my  writings, 
that  the  cells  must  always  use  energy  in  order  to  metabolize, 
but  rather  I  have  understood  thereby  the  sum  of  the  un- 
known causes  of  the  metabolic  ability  of  the  cells — as  one 
speaks  of  the  fermentative  "power"  of  yeast  cells. 


56 


Food 


The  metabolism  of  the  different  food-stuffs  varies  with  the 
quality  and  quantity  of  the  food.  Proteid  alone  may  burn,  or 
little  proteid  and  much  carbohydrates  and  fat.  I  have  deter- 
mined the  amount  of  the  metabolism  of  the  various  food- 
stuffs under  the  most  varied  conditions.  All  the  functions 
of  metabolism  are  derived  from  the  processes  in  the  cells. 
In  a  given  condition  of  the  cells,  available  proteid  may  be 
used  exclusively,  if  enough  be  furnished  them.  If  the  power 
of  the  cells  to  metabolize  is  not  exhausted  by  the  proteid 
furnished,  then  carbohydrates  and  fats  are  destroyed  up  to 
the  limit  of  the  ability  of  the  cells  to  do  so. 

From  this  use  of  materials  arise  physical  results,  such  as 
work,  heat,  and  electricity,  which  we  can  express  in  heat 
units.    This  is  the  power  derived  from  metabolism. 

It  is  possible  to  approach  the  subject  in  the  reverse  order; 
that  is,  to  study  the  energy  production  ("Kraftwechsel") 
and  to  draw  conclusions  regarding  the  metabolism  ("Stoff- 
wechsel").  It  is  perfectly  possible  to  say  that  the  require- 
ment of  energy  in  the  body,  or  the  production  of  the  heat 
necessary  to  cover  heat  loss,  or  for  energy  to  do  work,  are 
controlling  factors  over  the  metabolism,  since  on  cooling  the 
body,  or  on  working,  correspondingly  more  matter  is  de- 
stroyed. But  one  must  not  conclude  that  the  loss  of  body 
heat  or  muscular  work  is  the  immediate  cause  of  this  in- 
creased metabolism.  The  causes  lie  in  the  peculiar  condi- 
tions of  the  organism,  and  muscle  work  and  loss  of  heat  are 
merely  factors  acting  favorably  upon  those  causes,  raising 
the  power  of  the  cells  to  metabolize.  In  virtue  of  this,  more 
is  destroyed,  and  secondarily  the  power  to  work  and  in- 
creased heat  production  are  afforded. 

The  requirement  for  energy  cannot  possibly  be  the  cause 
of  metabolism,  any  more  than  the  requirement  for  gold  will 
put  it  in  one's  pocket.  Hence  the  production  of  energy  has  a 
very  definite  upper  limit,  which  is  afforded  by  the  ability  of 
the  cells  to  metabolize.  If  the  cells  will  metabolize  no  more, 
then  further  increase  of  work  ceases  even  in  the  presence  of 
direst  necessity;  and  this  is  also  the  case  with  the  heat  pro- 
duction, even  though  it  were  very  necessary,  and  we  were 
likely  to  freeze. 

I  therefore  maintain  my  "older"  point  of  view,  that  of 
pure  metabolism,  in  order  to  explain  the  phenomena  of  nutri- 
tion. I  am  convinced  that  it  is  the  right  way,  and  that  the 
clearest  and  most  unifying  development  will  be  possible  as 
one  investigates  what  substances  are  destroyed  under  different 


Introduction 


57 


circumstances,  such  as  work  and  loss  of  heat,  and  how  much 
of  the  different  materials  must  be  fed  to  maintain  the  body 
in  condition. 

Whether  we  secure  nourishment  for  our  bodies  from 
our  food,  or  not,  depends  upon  metabolism;  and  the 
chemical  process  known  as  metabolism  depends  upon  the 
integrity  of  the  cells  of  the  body.  It  stands  to  reason 
that  cell-life  must  be  normal,  and  the  food  consumed  of 
a  proper  quality  and  quantity,  if  we  would  hope  to  main- 
tain health. 

To  maintain  cell-life  up  to  the  normal,  we  are  told 
by  Voit  that  muscular  work,  cold,  warmth,  and  abundant 
food  increase  the  power  of  the  cells  to  metabolize;  where- 
as cooling  the  cells  and  using  certain  poisons  will  decrease 
this  power. 

My  readers  understand  the  importance  of  nerve  en- 
ergy in  keeping  up  the  health  standard.  I  have  had  much 
to  say  about  enervation  or  lost  energy,  and  just  how  this 
lost  resistance  is  brought  about.  Indeed,  I  have  referred 
so  frequently  to  the  causes  of  enervation  that  it  is  a 
wonder  if  I  have  not  wearied  my  readers.  But  the  sub- 
ject, as  I  present  it,  is  so  new  that  the  thought  must  be- 
come ingrained  by  repetition. 

THE  GERM  THEORY 

The  cause  of  disease,  as  understood  and  generally 
taught,  is  extraneous — from  without.  At  first  it  was  be- 
lieved to  be  a  punishment  sent  from  God;  later,  God 
was  largely  left  out,  except  by  evangelists;  then  nature 
was  accused  of  warring  against  man,  and  man  had  been 
compelled  to  subdue  nature  to  make  it  possible  for  him 
to  live  on  earth.  Along  with  these  beliefs  has  gone  a  hazy 
idea  that  the  organs  of  the  body  could  go  wrong;  the 
cause  being  an  organic  rebellion,  the  organs  being  con- 
ceded to  be  isonomic — to  have  independent  power. 
This  idea  has  gone  so  far  that  surgeons  believe  that  the 


58 


Food 


larger  part  of  the  organs  of  the  body  may  be  removed 
with  impunity.  The  idea  that  the  body  is  made  up  of  a 
community  of  interdependent  organs — every  one  being 
necessary  to  every  other  one — is  very  loosely  understood, 
if  understood  at  all;  and  certainly  not  acted  upon,  nor 
considered,  in  diagnosing  and  treating  disease. 

The  latest  cause  of  disease,  to  be  generally  recognized 
as  a  universal  cause,  is  the  germ.  To  what  extent  the 
germ  theory  has  taken  hold  of  the  profession  and  people 
I  need  not  say,  for  it  is  generally  accepted. 

The  omnipresence  of  germs  I  admit,  as  I  do  the 
omnipresence  of  air.  Reasoning  from  analogy,  I  must 
say  that  one  is  as  necessary  as  the  other;  for  we  observe 
that,  with  the  extinction  of  either,  life  goes  out. 

If  air  becomes  so  contaminated  with  noxious  material 
that  disease  and  death  result,  we  are  not  justified  in  de- 
claring that  air  is  the  cause  of  disease. 

If  the  sun's  rays  are  forced  to  strike  the  body  in  a 
manner  that  causes  blistering  and,  when  continued,  even 
death,  we  are  not  logical  nor  truthful  when  we  say  that 
the  sunshine  is  disease-  and  death-producing. 

Because  many  people  are  made  sick,  and  even  killed, 
from  eating  too  much,  a  diet  enthusiast  is  not  justified  in 
declaring  that  food  is  a  poison  and,  as  such,  is  the  cause 
of  disease. 

Germs  are  one  of  many  factors  necessary  to  health 
and  life,  and  when  the  conditions  of  their  existence  are 
changed  so  that  they  are  multiplied  beyond  physiological 
requirements,  then  it  is,  and  not  till  then,  that  the  physio- 
logical becomes  pathological — that  disease  and  death  are 
forced — because  of  an  unbalancing  of  the  factors  neces- 
sary for  normal  existence. 

The  germ  theory  as  worked  out,  and  nicknamed 
"modern  medical  science,"  is  one  of  the  most  gigantic 
fallacies  ever  perpetrated  by  delusional  insanity.  How 
soon  the  truth  will  rise  and  break  the  bonds  of  this  colos- 


Introduction 


59 


sal  delusion  is  beyond  the  prophetic  power  of  ordinary 
seers,  but  in  the  meantime  those  who  are  not  caught  in 
the  meshes  of  this  logically  constructed  delusion  should 
endeavor  to  understand  man  and  the  laws  of  his  being, 
so  as  to  formulate  rules  of  conduct  which,  if  he  respects, 
will  cause  him  to  live  immune  to  disease,  the  science  of 
bacteriology  to  the  contrary  notwithstanding. 

The  believers  in  the  germ  theory  ignore  all  other 
causes  of  disease. 

The  idea  that  disease  may  be  due  to  intrinsic  causes 
is  believed  to  a  very  limited  extent.  Auto-intoxication  is 
accepted  as  a  possible  disease,  but  it  is  very  limited  as  a 
cause,  if,  indeed,  autotoxemia  is  not  really  believed  to  be 
primarily  brought  on  from  extraneous  causes. 

Enervation  as  a  cause  of  disease — as  a  universal  cause 
of  all  disease — is  not  generally  known,  and  in  the  case  of 
the  few  who  know,  I  hold,  it  has  not  become  a  part  of 
them;  for  few,  if  any,  have  lived  the  knowledge;  hence 
it  is  not  yet  a  part  of  them. 

Before  enervation  can  be  accepted  as  a  general  cause 
of  disease;  before  the  mind  will  be  ready  to  accept  the 
fact  that  disease  is  simply  perverted  health — health  act- 
ing under  an  influence  that  prevents  an  ideal  manifesta- 
tion— the  belief  in  a  disease  entity,  the  belief  that  health 
is  an  entity  that  is  opposed  by  disease,  which  is  also 
an  entity,  must  be  banished  as  a  mental  concept.  This 
brings  us,  then,  to  the  seat  of  organic  life — which  is  the 
cell — in  order  to  learn,  if  possible,  what  influences  nor- 
mal cell  development. 

We  know  that  the  body  is  made  up  of  a  community 
of  organs,  and  that  they  are  bound  together  by  mutual 
influences  which  cannot  be  interrupted  without  causing 
a  change  in  their  behavior — which  change  we  call  disease. 
The  cause  for  such  derangements  may  be  injury  or  poison. 
The  organs  are  made  up  of  a  community  of  cells,  and,  if 
we  have  organic  health,  the  cells  that  combine  to  make 


60 


Food 


up  the  organs  must  be  normal  in  construction  and  func- 
tion. 

As  we  have  been  told  by  Mr.  Voit,  metabolism  takes 
place  in  the  cell;  that  is,  after  food  has  been  digested  and 
absorbed,  it  is  disposed  of  by  the  cells.  In  the  cell,  which 
is  the  machine-shop  of  the  body,  food  is  finally  disposed 
of.  The  cell  has  the  power  of  reproducing  itself,  and  in 
this  process  of  reproduction  the  mysterious  change  known 
as  metabolism  takes  place — food  is  changed  into  new 
cells,  and  the  waste  and  worn-out  materials  are  carried 
out  of  the  body,  principally  through  the  kidneys  and 
bowels. 

As  Voit  declares,  the  process  of  metabolism  is  not 
known;  but  we  do  know  that  energy  is  necessary,  and 
reason  declares  that  there  must  be  a  chemical  change;  not 
the  chemical  change  that  may  be  likened  to  the  digestive 
act  which  takes  place  in  the  stomach  and  bowels,  in  pre- 
paring food  for  absorption,  but,  of  course,  a  more  re- 
fined process,  and  one  in  which  the  subtle  forces  of  nature 
play  a  part.  It  is  here  that  the  electrons  and  the  ele- 
mental substance  of  mind  are  incorporated  into  tissue; 
here  is  where  the  word  becomes  flesh. 

Voit  says: 

I  have  not  meant  .  .  .  that  the  cells  must  always  use 
energy  in  order  to  metabolize,  but  rather  .  .  .  the  sum  of 
the  unknown  causes. 

Unquestionably  mind  enters  into  the  process  of  nutri- 
tion and  is  an  important  physical  energy.  Indeed,  mind 
presides  over  nutrition  and  is  the  idealizing  force. 

In  advising  the  sick,  mental  poise  must  be  secured  in 
all  cases,  to  insure  permanent  restoration;  and  in  perhaps 
eighty  per  cent  of  all  sick  people  mental  composure  is 
the  only  remedy  needed  to  restore  health.  To  maintain 
a  normal  state  of  the  body  and  attain  to  long  life,  the 
mind  must  be  poised,  and  knowledge  of  the  laws  of 


Introduction 


61 


health  and  life  must  be  understood  and  respected;  other- 
wise the  physical  will  degenerate  in  spite  of  mental  poise. 

Mental  and  physical  poise  means  the  building  of  a 
habit  of  composure — knowing  how  to  rest  in  work.  An- 
other name  is  physiological  rest. 

The  heart  does  not  need  to  stop  functioning  to  be- 
come rested,  and  it  will  not  tire  unless  it  is  forced  to 
work  beyond  its  normal  capacity — stimulated  to  do  so  by 
coffee,  tea,  alcoholics,  tobacco,  overstimulating  foods; 
poisons  circulating  in  the  blood,  such  as  toxins  absorbed 
from  the  bowels,  caused  by  decomposition  of  food  in  the 
stomach  and  bowels;  constipation;  inactive  kidneys  and 
lungs;  overworked  emotions;  excessive  venery,  or  any 
influence  that  increases  heart  action;  and,  neither  last  nor 
least,  drugs  given  to  control  the  heart  and  to  stop  the 
numerous  pains  to  which  flesh  is  heir. 

The  same  rule  holds  good  regarding  the  blood-ves- 
sels; they  are  influenced  unfavorably  by  everything  that 
affects  the  heart  or  nervous  system. 

A  mind  kept  in  any  sort  of  a  strain  overworks  the 
nervous  system,  and  depression  follows.  Depression  is 
enervation. 

Nature  rests  in  work,  and,  when  not  forced — stim- 
ulated— or  depressed,  remains  normal.  Worry  is  per- 
petual work. 

It  is  very  nearly  impossible  to  overwork  when  the 
mind  is  poised;  but  work  and  worry  soon  destroy  us. 
Work  without  interest  is  work  without  joy,  and  soon 
brings  old  age.  Work  performed  without  interest  is 
never  progressive;  the  creative  energies  are  never  brought 
out;  and  the  mind  never  enjoys  the  pleasure  of  expan- 
sion. People  working  in  this  way  are  waiting  for  "some- 
thing to  turn  up,"  not  knowing  that  something  is  turning 
up — opportunities  are  presenting — all  the  time,  which, 
because  their  wits  are  not  sharpened  by  attention,  are 
allowed  to  pass  unnoticed. 


62 


Food 


The  depression — enervation — coming  from  grum- 
bling and  dissatisfaction  in  the  course  of  time  brings  on 
disease.  Why?  Because  the  cells  are  not  furnished  the 
subtle  energies — electricity  and  mind — in  such  a  state  as 
to  be  utilized.  Perhaps  I  would  better  say  that,  on  ac- 
count of  overstimulation,  the  cells  do  not  attract  "the 
unknown  causes,"  or  the  cells  lose  their  power  of  dyna- 
mization;  hence  they  fail  to  reproduce  vitalized  cells. 
People  in  this  state,  we  say,  have  low  vitality — they  fail 
to  get  any  nourishment  out  of  their  food. 

The  worry  habit  leads  many  into  this  state.  The 
carrying  of  a  great  sorrow,  secret  fears,  jealousy,  disap- 
pointed love,  envy,  bad  temper,  chronic  grouch — all 
these,  when  suffered  long  enough,  lower  the  nerve  energy, 
and  nutrition  fails;  following  which,  cell  functioning  i3 
impaired,  and  the  body  fails  to  renew  itself  ideally.  Then 
it  is  that  old-age  diseases  begin  to  develop:  hardened 
tissues,  arteriosclerosis,  stone  in  the  gall-bladder  and 
kidney,  and  all  kinds  of  tumors,  including  cancer. 

The  unknown  causes  of  metabolism  may  elude  the 
test-tube  and  laboratory  experimentalist;  and  the  observ- 
ant physician  may  never  be  able  to  bottle  them.  But 
when  he  teaches  those  with  impaired  nutrition  how  to 
poise;  how  to  rest  the  mind,  and  to  change  sorrow  to 
happiness;  greed  to  generosity;  the  envious,  jealous,  and 
suspicious  into  trusting  and  well-disposed  persons;  irrita- 
bility into  conciliation;  in  a  few  words,  change  all  nerve- 
destroying  influences  into  nerve-developing  and  nerve- 
conserving  influences,  he  may  see  the  cells  take  on  new 
life  and  energy,  and  show  by  the  results  of  their  work 
that  they  are  again  charged  with  "unknown  causes  of 
metabolism;"  and  he  may  wisely  decide  that  the  un- 
known causes  are  the  subtle  elements — the  dynamic 
energy — set  free  in  food  by  the  power  of  optimism — 
faith,  hope,  and  charity. 


Introduction 


63 


The  subtle  energies  are  over  and  above  the  palpable 
and  tangible,  and  belong  to,  or  are,  the  creative  energy. 

Proteid  foods  are  tissue-builders.  Proteid  is  found 
in  all  foods  except  pure  fat,  starch,  and  sugar.  Meat  aver- 
ages 16  per  cent;  eggs,  about  13;  cereals,  8.3;  v/heat, 
9.3;  whole-wheat  bread,  7.5;  white  bread,  8.1;  cakes, 
cookies,  gingerbread,  doughnuts,  etc.,  about  5;  pies  and 
puddings,  about  3;  fresh  fruits,  from  0.3  to  1.4;  canned 
fruits,  less  than  1  ;  dried  fruits,  from  0.4  to  3.4;  fresh 
vegetables,  from  0.4  to  2.3;  rhubarb,  0.14;  green  corn, 
3. 1  ;  dry  beans,  15.8;  dried  peas,  1  7.3.  Nuts  range  from 
the  cocoanut,  which  has  3.6  per  cent  proteid,  to  the 
peanut,  which  contains  25.8  per  cent,  and  the  butternut, 
which  contains  23.7  per  cent  proteid. 

According  to  Graham  Lusk,  in  "The  Fundamental 
Basis  of  Nutrition**: 

An  average  man  weighing  156  pounds  contains  about 
thirty  pounds  of  protein,  or  20  per  cent  of  the  live  weight. 
If  the  man  starves,  he  will  lose  5  parts  per  thousand  of  his 
protein  store  daily.  If  he  be  given  fat  and  carbohydrates 
(starch  and  sugar)  in  large  quantities,  the  daily  loss  of  body 
protein  may  be  reduced  to  2.5  parts  per  thousand.  This  loss 
of  body  protein  represents  the  irreducible  minimum  of  wear 
and  tear  on  the  constituent  parts  of  the  machinery  of  the 
cells.  Murlin  has  shown  that  this  destruction  cannot  be 
prevented  by  giving  gelatin  with  fat  and  carbohydrates. 
Gelatin  contains  many  of  the  structural  units  of  meat  proteid, 
but  in  very  different  relative  amounts,  and  it  contains  no 
tyrosin,  cystin,  or  tryptophan.  It,  therefore,  has  not  the 
chemical  units  necessary  to  repair  the  worn-out  parts  of  the 
cell  machinery.  Murlin  found,  however,  that  if  this  quantity 
of  proteid  which  constitutes  the  irreducible  minimum  of  wear 
and  tear  on  the  cells  was  added  in  the  form  of  beef  heart  to 
the  gelatin  diet,  the  waste  of  body  stopped  at  once.  He  found 
that  the  wheat  proteids  of  cracker  meal  were  far  less  efficient 
in  protecting  the  body  from  proteid  loss  than  were  the  pro- 
teids contained  in  beef  heart. 

This  indicates  the  need  of  replenishing  the  proteid 
store  of  the  body. 


64 


Food 


In  this  connection  I  wish  to  record  my  experience 
with  soups  made  from  meat-stock.  So  far  as  I  have 
been  able  to  observe,  this  preparation  of  soup  brings  on 
deranged  digestion,  and  causes  languor,  a  heavy,  tired 
feeling,  and  symptoms  of  rheumatism.  I  have  never 
arrived  at  any  satisfactory  reason  why  soup  made  in  this 
way  should  derange  health.  I  have  thought  that  it  may 
be  due  to  some  change,  on  the  order  of  decomposition, 
that  may  take  place  in  the  stock,  which  the  heat  fails  to 
correct;  or  perhaps  the  evil  effect  may  be  due  to  a  chem- 
ical change.  The  stock  does  not  represent  meat;  for  it 
is  more  largely  gelatin,  and  gelatin  is  lacking  in  several 
elements — namely,  tyrosin,  cystin,  and  tryptophan; 
otherwise  it  would  be  a  valuable  proteid  food.  It  may  be 
that  Murlin's  explanation  may  be  applied  to  my  expe- 
rience with  meat-stock;  namely,  that  the  stock  makes  a 
soup  lacking  in  a  few  elements  necessary  for  a  true  pro- 
teid food ;  and,  in  supplanting  meat  with  stock  soup,  and 
eating  freely  of  white  bread  and  other  starches,  the  body's 
proteid  is  used  up,  and  nerve  weakness,  and  the  mental 
depression  consequent,  exert  an  unusually  detrimental 
influence,  causing  discomfort  and  disease. 

BAD  COOKING 

Much  harm  comes  from  bad  cooking.  Chronic  dis- 
eases are  built  by  eating  vegetables  from  which  food 
salts  have  been  decanted.  When  the  chemistry  of  food 
is  materially  changed  by  cooking,  we  should  not  be  sur- 
prised if  our  bodies  deteriorate  very  materially  under 
the  influence  of  such  eating.  Too  much  mixing  and 
combining  has  a  tendency  to  alter  the  chemistry.  The 
simpler  the  food,  the  easier  of  digestion;  the  more  foods 
are  compounded  in  their  preparation,  the  more  surely  will 
they  bring  about  ill-health.  Meats  cooked  with  starch 
and  fat — meat  pies — are  much  harder  of  digestion  than 
meat  cooked  in  the  simplest  manner — properly  stewed, 


Introduction 


65 


roasted,  or  broiled.  It  is  better  not  to  eat  bread  with 
meat  in  the  same  meal;  but,  if  the  habit  cannot  be  given 
up,  the  meat  should  be  stewed  in  just  enough  water  to 
prevent  burning,  so  that,  when  served,  it  will  be  tender 
and  carry  a  rich,  brown  meat  juice.  The  latter  should 
not  be  ruined  by  adding  flour  to  it.  Flour  gravy,  which 
is  such  a  delight  to  all  children,  is  a  digestion-destroyer. 
If  meat  is  not  stewed  as  directed,  it  may  be  roasted 
either  in  a  roaster  or  in  a  jacket;  or  broiling  is  a  delicious 
way  of  preparing  steaks,  chops,  fish,  or  young  chickens. 
Properly  stewed  meats  are  easier  of  digestion  than  when 
cooked  in  any  other  way.  Steaming  and  cooking  in 
fireless  cookers  is  all  right  for  those  who  are  prepared  for 
cooking  in  this  way,  and  especially  for  those  who  do  not 
know  how  to  cook  and  are  not  interested.  The  house- 
wife, however,  who  cooks  with  love — because  she  loves 
to  cook,  because  she  takes  a  delight  in  cooking  and  pre- 
paring food  well  for  those  she  loves — will  always  impart 
a  flavor  that  indifferent  cooks — those  who  cook  for  pay, 
or  cook  because  they  have  to,  but  who  are  not  interested, 
and  indeed  dislike  the  work — know  nothing  about,  so 
far  as  being  able  to  develop  it  is  concerned.  In  cooking, 
as  in  all  other  affairs  of  life,  there  must  be  a  love  for  the 
work,  or,  like  unwelcome  children,  the  products  will  be 
* 'cursed  before  birth.' * 

A  mother  who  cannot  prepare  her  children's  food  in 
love  need  not  be  surprised  if  her  children  do  not  thrive. 
Such  mothers  and  wives  should  not  be  surprised  if  their 
families  are  outwitted  and  outdistanced  in  the  race  of 
life  by  others  not  any  better,  if  as  well,  mentally  and 
physically  equipped. 

Many  men  are  kept  down  to  a  low  earning  power 
because  their  stomachs  are  taxed  by  indigestible  foods  to 


66 


Food 


such  an  extent  that  the  brain  is  stupefied.  Such  people 
are  impatiently  waiting  for  their  ship  to  come  in.  As  well 
wait  for  potatoes  to  dig  themselves,  or  for  a  gold  mine 
to  open  and  present  itself  to  Mr.  Micawber.  Accidents 
do  sometimes  occur,  and  Mr.  Looking- for-Something-to- 
Turn-Up  is  made  comfortable  and  put  on  Easy  Street 
without  an  effort  on  his  part.  But  these  accidents  are  so 
rare  that  it  is  better  for  those  who  would  get  on,  be  com- 
fortable, and  happy,  to  get  busy  building  a  ship,  that 
they  may  have  one  to  come  in.  Besides,  ships  that  are 
not  built  out  of  intelligent  endeavor  are  likely  to  strike 
icebergs  and  go  to  the  bottom  on  the  first  voyage. 

The  ships  that  stem  the  tide  and  eventually  make  a 
safe  landing  are  those  which  are  built  well.  And,  to 
build  a  ship  of  fortune,  one  must  have  a  clear  mind — not 
one  blurred  with  an  inactive  or  engorged  liver,  brought 
on  by  eating  improperly  cooked  food,  or  improperly 
combined  food,  or  by  stuffing  too  much  food  into  the 
stomach  three  or  more  times  a  day. 

Business  and  income  will  not  increase  without  thought. 
The  animal  does  not  improve  its  condition,  because  it 
cannot  think.  Men  who  do  not  improve  their  condition 
do  not  think,  and  are  too  fond  of  rest.  The  mind  must 
be  improved.  Those  who  are  too  indolent  to  read,  study, 
and  think  of  how  to  improve  the  business  they  are  in,  or 
how  to  excel,  need  not  be  surprised  that  they  get  no  ad- 
vances. It  is  always  the  hustler  who  succeeds — the  fellow 
who  is  not  afraid  of  work;  who  works  at  home;  who 
thinks  out  improved  methods,  shorter  roads  to  accom- 
plish given  work;  the  fellow  who  is  not  willing  to  remain 
mediocre. 

Ambition  may  fail,  hard  work  may  fail,  if  common- 
sense  is  not  used  in  planning  as  well  as  rustling.  Knowl- 


Introduction 


67 


edge  of  health  laws  is  one  of  the  first  necessities  in  start- 
ing life.  One  must  know  how  to  live  well — how  to  live  to 
attain  the  greatest  efficiency.  Indigestion,  headache,  con- 
stipation, overstimulation,  giving-way  to  appetite  and 
passion,  are  a  few  handicaps  that  lower  efficiency  and 
make  business  failures.  Overeating  of  proteid  foods,  or 
improper  preparation  and  combination  of  these  foods, 
work  havoc  with  health  and  efficiency. 


CHAPTER  I 


FOOD  IN  ITS  RELATIONSHIP  TO  THE  BODY 
,  Aa/fgju £  N  UNDERSTANDING  of  the  relationship  of 
W^Pff  food  to  tne  body  is  tne  most  important 

AH  knowledge  for  man  to  attain;  for  it  has  all 
II  to  do  with  health,  and  without  health  noth- 
Jf  ing  can  be  accomplished. 
'O^V^^T''  Inasmuch  as  every  physical  act  consumes 
energy,  and  all  energy  is  derived  from  food, 
the  maintenance  of  a  reserve  of  force — resistance — is  a 
desideratum  that  should  not  be  ignored  by  anyone  who 
wishes  to  attain  full  efficiency  and  live  to  the  allotted  age 
for  man,  which,  according  to  the  best  scientific  data, 
ranges  from  one  hundred  to  one  hundred  and  twenty 
years. 

FOOD 

Food  varies  much  in  composition,  and  a  knowledge 
of  the  approximate  composition  is  essential;  for  in  no 
other  way  can  man  supply  himself  with  the  needs  of  his 
body.  The  function  of  digestion  is  the  bringing  of  food 
into  such  a  state  of  solution  in  the  stomach  that  it  may  be 
absorbed  and  enter  the  blood  prepared  for  assimilation; 
which  means  that  the  different  tissues  of  the  body  take 
from  the  blood  the  elements  required. 

The  study  of  food  is  a  complex  one,  and  the  scientific 
investigations  along  this  line  have  been  limited  to  a  very 
short  or  recent  past — so  recent,  in  fact,  that  the  average 
man  knows  little  about  food.  Indeed,  it  is  a  very  common 
thing  to  hear  physicians  of  good  repute  declare  that  food 
has  nothing  to  do  with  sickness,  and  that  people  who  are 
sick  may  eat  whatever  agrees  with  them.    Those  who  are 


Water — Salts 


69 


now  making  such  remarks  will  have  reason  to  blush  for 
shame  in  a  very  few  years;  for  the  demand  on  the  part  of 
the  people  for  physicians  who  can  tell  them  what  to  eat, 
when  to  eat,  when  not  to  eat,  and  how  to  combine  to 
greatest  advantage,  is  growing  so  strenuous  that  physi- 
cians must  answer  the  call. 

The  body  is  composed  of  chemical  elements,  and 
these  elements  are  found  in  the  food  on  which  man 
subsists.  There  are  fifteen  to  twenty  elements  contained 
in  the  body,  the  principal  ones  being  oxygen,  hydrogen, 
carbon,  nitrogen,  calcium,  phosphorus,  and  sulphur.  In 
foods,  these  elements  are  most  conveniently  grouped 
under  the  headings  of  (1)  Water;  (2)  Salts;  (3)  Protein; 
(4)  Carbohydrates;  and  (5)  Fat. 

Water. — Water  enters  into  the  composition  of  every 
tissue,  and  forms  about  sixty  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the 
body  of  a  full-grown  man.  It  is  obvious  that  this  per- 
centage must  vary  in  different  individuals.  Those  who 
carry  a  very  great  deal  of  weight  have  much  more  than 
sixty  per  cent  of  water,  and  those  who  are  very  thin  will 
carry  less  than  sixty  per  cent.  Water  should  be  recog- 
nized as  one  of  the  most  important  foods,  inasmuch  as 
man  cannot  live  without  it  and  all  other  foods  to  exceed 
seven  days.  He  can  live  without  all  other  foods  forty 
days  when  given  water,  but  he  cannot  live  beyond  seven- 
teen days  when  given  food  and  at  the  same  time  deprived 
of  water  or  fluid. 

Salts. — The  earthy  salts  consist  principally  of  cal- 
cium, potassium,  sodium,  magnesium,  and  iron.  There 
are  others  that  do  not  occupy  so  great  a  position,  which 
will  be  brought  out  more  fully  in  taking  up  the  different 
foods  and  their  elements.  The  mineral  salts  are  very  nec- 
essary to  life  and  health.  Without  them,  tissue  prolifera- 
tion cannot  take  place.  Indeed,  the  salts  may  be  likened 
to  the  framework  of  the  house,  and  they  are  fully  as  im- 
portant.   In  our  daily  foods  the  salts  are  derived  from 


70 


Food 


vegetables  and  fruit.  The  most  important  are  taken  into 
the  system  when  we  eat  raw  fruit  and  raw  vegetables. 

Protein. — Protein  or  nitrogen  is  very  important,  and 
is  found  in  foods  of  both  the  animal  and  the  vegetable 
kingdoms.  Those  most  familiar  to  laymen  are  meats, 
eggs,  and  the  gluten  of  grain. 

Protein  foods  are  of  the  greatest  importance  in  keep- 
ing up  the  animal  body.  They  build  new  tissue  and 
repair  the  old  and  worn-out  parts.  They  are  oxidized  in 
the  body  and  are  important  as  a  source  of  energy.  Pro- 
teins are  sometimes  converted  into  fat  and  stored  in  the 
body  for  future  use.  They  form  the  tissue-building  part 
of  the  diet.  When  not  sufficiently  supplied,  the  body 
wastes.  The  rule  is  that  too  much  protein  is  consumed 
by  the  people,  rather  than  too  little,  and  its  overcon- 
sumption  causes  many  of  the  blood  diseases  from  which 
man  suffers.  Overconsumption  of  this  kind  of  food  is 
the  basis  of  tuberculosis,  Bright* s  disease,  and  catarrhs  of 
all  kinds.  Infants  are  overfed  on  milk  and  become  pro- 
tein-poisoned. When  sugar  is  added  to  the  diet  beyond 
a  very  restricted  amount,  it  joins  the  protein  and  causes 
putrefaction  in  the  intestines.  This  favors  the  develop- 
ment of  contagious  diseases. 

Graham  Lusk  says  that  twenty  per  cent,  or  thirty 
pounds,  of  the  live  weight  of  the  human  body  is  proteid, 
and  that,  when  fasting,  a  loss  of  five  parts  to  the  thousand 
takes  place;  that  is,  in  a  thirty  days'  fast  only  five  pounds 
would  be  lost;  or,  if  starch  and  sugar  be  given,  the  loss 
would  not  be  more  than  one-half  that  amount.  Murlin 
found  that  by  giving  an  amount  of  proteid  equal  to  the 
irreducible  minimum  of  wear  and  tear  on  the  cells,  the 
waste  of  body  would  stop  at  once;  the  amount  required 
being  one  and  one-half  ounces  each  day. 

It  has  not  been  my  experience  that  such  a  loss  can  be 
checked  by  giving  so  small  an  amount  of  vegetable  pro- 


PROTEID  71 

teid.  The  reason,  perhaps,  is  that  the  vegetable  proteid 
is  not  all  digested  and  assimilated. 

Meat  proteid  can  be  handled  much  more  easily  by 
the  digestive  organs  than  vegetable  proteid.  This  truth 
is  not  so  readily  proved  in  people  of  full  health  as  in  the 
sick,  or  those  who  have  imperfect  digestion. 

Graham  Lusk  says:  *  'Wheat  proteids  are  less  effi- 
cient in  protecting  the  body  from  proteid  loss  than  are 
the  proteids  contained  in  beef  heart."  This  statement 
may  be  extended  to  take  in  all  animal  foods. 

If  two  ounces,  less  a  fraction,  of  lean  beef  per  day 
can  stop  proteid  waste  in  a  fasting  subject,  why  should 
more  be  given?  There  is  no  need  of  giving  more,  unless 
it  is  necessary  to  increase  the  weight,  and  for  this  purpose 
enough  proteid  can  be  found  in  other  foods  to  make  up 
the  difference  required. 

To  enable  the  reader  to  calculate  the  caloric  or  heat 
value  of  any  and  all  foods,  I  submit,  from  Rubner's  in- 
vestigations, the  following  table: 

One  gram  protein  =4.1  calories 

One  gram  of  fat  =9.3  calories 

One  gram  of  carbohydrates  =4.1  calories 

From  Hutchinson  I  quote  the  following: 

Quantity  of  protein  consumed  daily  is  100  grams  X4.1  =  410  (3.5  —ounces) 

Quantity  of  carbohydrates  consumed  daily  is  500  grams  X4.1  =2050  (  17-founces) 
Quantity  of  fat  consumed  daily  is  50  grams  X9.3  =  465  (3.5  -  ounces) 

2925  (  24  +ounoes) 

Chittenden  says  that  sixty  grams,  2  +  ounces,  of  pro- 
teid is  enough. 

It  is  doubtful  if  authorities  will  agree  on  this  subject; 
for  they  must  always  be  contending  with  an  unknown  and 
unknowable  quantity;  namely:  How  much  digestive  and 
assimilative  power  has  the  patient?  Those  who  are  not 
patients — those  who  are  not  sick — will  continue  to  eat 
as  they  please. 


72 


Food 


The  reader  should  see  at  a  glance  how  easy  it  is  to 
overeat,  according  to  Chittenden ;  for  most  people  who  eat 
meat  will  eat  twice  to.  four  times  that  amount  in  twenty- 
four  hours,  and,  in  addition,  bread  (graham  and  whole- 
wheat), eggs,  navy  or  butter  beans,  besides  other  foods 
that  carry  a  small  percentage  of  protein. 

To  undertake  to  feed  all  people  according  to  rules 
and  tables  will  end  in  failure.  The  professional  stickler 
for  scientific  rules  with  which  to  direct  the  feeding  of  the 
sick  or  well  will  find  himself  miring  and  floundering  in 
the  quicksands  of  speculation,  in  spite  of  carrying  out  to 
the  letter  the  profoundest  up-to-date,  scientific  dietetic 
principles.  Why?  Because  there  is  no  scientific  way  of 
finding  out  how  much  digestive  and  assimilative  power  is 
possessed  by  a  given  individual.  I  have  said  many  times 
in  my  writings,  and  have  no  reason  to  reverse  or  change 
my  opinion,  that  proteid  foods  "per  se"  are  not  indispen- 
sable to  body-building;  for  they,  like  all  foods  taken  into 
the  body,  must  be  digested — undergo  disintegration — 
and  be  absorbed  into  the  blood,  there  to  meet  with  the 
higher  process  of  digestion  and  become  fitted  for  body- 
building. The  elements  needed  for  all  tissue-building 
are  selected  from  digested  food,  not  from  protein,  or  a 
compound  of  elements.  Digestion  is  a  process  of  analysis 
- — a  separating  of  elements — so  that  in  the  workshop— 
the  cell — a  new  synthesis  can  take  place. 

Proteid  foods  are  highly  synthesized.  And  it  is  a 
law  of  chemistry  that  the  more  complex  and  compounded 
a  given  substance,  the  more  unstable  it  becomes. 

When  more  proteid  is  ingested  than  is  necessary  to 
supply  the  waste  of  tissue,  the  surplus  is  used  in  furnishing 
heat  to  the  body.  An  oversupply  of  heat  is  detrimental 
to  health.  When  food  heat  is  aided  by  hot  weather  and 
overheating  clothes,  look  out  for  disease. 

Proteins  are  divided  into  albuminoids,  gelatinoids, 
and  extractives. 


Albumin 


73 


Albuminoid. — Albuminoid  includes  such  substances 
as  white  of  egg,  the  lean  part  of  meat,  casein  of  milk, 
and  the  gluten  of  flour. 

Animal  albuminoid  is  more  unstable  than  vegetable 
albuminoid. 

To  enable  my  readers  to  appreciate  fully  what  pure 
albumin  is,  I  have  secured  the  consent  of  Professor  John 
Uri  Lloyd  to  quote  as  freely  as  I  like  from  two  articles 
which  he  prepared  and  had  published  in  the  "Eclectic 
Medical  Journal"  of  Cincinnati,  Ohio: 

Albumin  is  a  proteid  found  in  all  animals  and  in  most 
vegetables.  There  are  many  forms  of  albumin,  the  most 
familiar  of  the  natural  albumins  being  the  white  of  egg, 
which  consists  largely  of  albumin,  and  is,  perhaps,  the  most 
universal  product  used  as  food  by  animals.  Albumin  has  a 
very  complicated  molecular  structure,  its  formula,  when  puri- 
fied and  crystallized,  being  (Foster),  C720H1534N'218S5O248.  This 
proteid,  albumin,  let  us  repeat,  is  one  of  the  most  neurishing 
of  foods,  and  may  often  be  taken  into  the  stomachs  of  invalids 
where  other  forms  of  food  are  inadmissible. 

A  cubic  centimeter  (pipette)  is  about  the  capacity  of  a 
small  thimble.  A  cubic  centimeter  of  a  five  per  cent  solution 
of  crystallized  egg  albumin  will  carry  less  than  one  grain  of 
albumin.  One-twentieth  of  a  millionth  part  of  that  amount 
of  albumin  would  be  a  speck  so  small  that  the  normal  eye 
could  not  detect  it.  But  this  infinitesimal  amount,  twice  in- 
jected into  the  veins  of  a  guinea-pig  (Eccles),  a  period  of  time 
intervening  between  the  injections,  produces  distinct  physio- 
logical symptoms. 

One  fifty-thousandth  of  a  cubic  centimeter  of  this  five  per 
cent  solution  of  albumin  carries  about  one-millionth  of  a  gram 
of  albumin.  Divide  one  grain  of  egg-white  into  66,600  parts, 
and  you  have  about  that  quantity.  And  yet  (Eccles)  the 
second  injection  of  that  amount  (an  interval  between  the  in- 
jections) into  the  veins  of  a  guinea-pig  produces  death. 

The  same  amount  of  strychnine,  under  like  conditions, 
produces  no  ill  effect!  The  same  is  true  of  prussic  acid!  Old- 
time  poisons  of  the  most  virulent  kind  become  harmless  as 
contrasted  with  minute  amounts  of  albumin  repeated  after  a 
period  of  rest. 


74 


Food 


Let  us  review  this  mighty  problem,  in  the  words  of  Dr. 
Eccles,  as  presented  in  the  "Medical  Record/*  August  12, 
1911: 

"A  startling  revelation  is  'that  one-millionth  of  a  cubic 
centimeter  of  a  five  per  cent  solution'  of  a  three  times  crystal- 
lized egg-albumin,  'or  one-twentieth  of  a  millionth  of  a  gram 
of  protein,  will  sensitize  a  guinea-pig  enough  so  that  distinct 
and  typical  symptoms  are  produced  after  a  second  injection  of 
the  same  material,  while  one  fifty-thousandth  of  a  cubic  cen- 
timeter of  solution  containing  but  one-millionth  of  a  gram 
of  protein  sensitizes  fatally.'  Try  to  grasp  the  full  signifi- 
cance of  these  words.  Think  of  a  grain  of  egg-white  being 
divided  into  over  66,600  equal  parts,  and  one  of  these  parts 
proving  as  deadly  to  a  guinea-pig  as  a  bullet  through  its  heart. 
Strychnine  and  prussic  acid  are  deadly,  but  they  are  almost 
harmless  when  compared  with  hen's  egg  protein,  administered 
intravenously  after  sensitization.  We  consume  this  deadly 
material  with  impunity  as  a  constant  article  of  diet.  Fried- 
berger  tells  us  that  "if  into  a  guinea-pig  a  tenth  of  a  milligram 
of  the  serum  proteid  of  a  sheep  is  injected,  and  if  at  a  later 
period,  as  early  as  after  ten  days,  five  milligrams  of  the  same 
proteid  are  injected  into  a  vein,  the  animal  goes  into  convul- 
sions, has  asphyxia  and  dies!' 99 

Again,  let  us  quote  from  Dr.  Eccles: 

"As  a  repeatedly  recrystallized  egg-albumin,  giving  every 
evidence  of  chemical  purity,  is  capable  of  causing  sensitization 
in  doses  of  one  twenty-millionth  of  a  gram,  and  of  killing 
sensitized  pigs  in  doses  of  one-twentieth  of  a  milligram,  it  i3 
evident  that  if  either  of  these  effects  were  due  to  something 
other  than  the  egg-albumin  itself,  this  contaminating  sub- 
stance must  have  a  potency  beyond  the  bounds  of  imagina- 
tion." 

Comes  now  the  summing-up  of  these  facts;  for  here  the 
old  axiom  that  "one  man's  food  becomes  another  man's  poison" 
seems  more  than  imagination.  A  hearty  meal  of  albumin  is 
merely  a  wholesome  food,  for  man  or  beast.  And  yet  a  touch 
of  pure  albumin  in  the  veins  kills  the  guinea-pig  as  assuredly 
as  would  an  electric  shock.  Again,  the  admirable  summing- 
up  of  Dr.  Eccles  admits  of  no  improvement. 

"That  such  potency  for  evil  should  exist  in  them  at  all  is 
remarkable,  and  it  'cannot  but  excite  our  wonder  that  the  chem- 
istry of  the  body  should  be  so  delicately  balanced  that  the 
introduction  of  1-10,000,000  part  of  a  gram  of  foreign  protein 


Albumin 


75 


should  be  able  to  so  profoundly  influence  it  as  to  result  in 
serious  symptoms  when  injected  a  second  time.'  Most  of  this 
wonder  centers  in  the  fact  that  it  is  protein — vitally  essential 
food — that  is  so  superlatively  destructive." 

Let  us  now  go  into  further  outreaches.  Albumin  (protein) 
is  not  confined  to  eggs.  Plant  textures  contain  it.  In  food 
grains  it  is  abundant.  Nuts,  corn,  peas,  beans,  and  the  other 
standard  foods  bear  it  prolifically.  And  the  albumins  of 
these,  too,  are  poisons,  when  properly  injected  into  the  veins. 
Dr.  Eccles  expresses  it  admirably  as  follows: 

"Nor  is  this  poisonousness  confined  to  animal  proteins. 
The  fact  has  been  established  that  plant  proteins  have  the 
same  fatal  power.  Wells  and  Osborne  have  found  that  the 
sensitizing  and  intoxicating  power  of  our  common  food  grains 
is  as  great  as  those  of  the  animal  products.  They  tell  us  that 
'the  sensitizing  power  of  edestin  (from  hemp  seed)  is  not 
noticeably  less  than  that  of  crystallized  egg-albumin,  as  one 
ten-thousandth  of  a  milligram  (0.0000001  gm.),  the  smallest 
sensitizing  dose  tried,  rendered  the  guinea-pig  sensitive  to 
edest^.'  " 

Our  present  article  but  touches  the  subject  that  now, 
bursting  upon  our  vision,  appalls  the  theorist  who  hopes  to 
become  "authority."  It  staggers  him  who  knows  enough  to 
comprehend  that,  in  his  feebleness  of  mind,  man  can  hope  to 
comprehend  but  little. 

If  pure  albumin  has  such  a  detrimental  effect  on  gain- 
ing entrance  to  the  blood  before  it  has  been  subjected  to 
the  modifying  influence  of  digestion,  the  importance  of 
digestion  should  be  apparent  to  everyone.  And  this 
knowledge  should  make  all  people  who  are  capable  of 
reasoning  wholesomely  cautious  about  stuffing  food  be- 
yond their  digestive  capacity.  It  should  always  be  borne 
in  mind  that  nature  (our  body)  must  labor  to  rid  itself 
of  the  surplus  of  overeating;  and  all  the  time  that  diges- 
tion and  elimination  are  being  pushed  beyond  full  capac- 
ity there  is  danger  of  absorption  of  either  pure  albumin, 
or  albumin  that  has  been  forced  to  take  on  pathological 
fermentation. 

Surgeons  are  fully  alert  to  the  necessity  of  preventing 
the  absorption  of  septic  material  through  wounds.  And 


76 


Food 


physicians  generally  know  that  all  decomposition  in  the 
animal  body  is  a  modified  albumin,  and  they  know  what 
a  rank  poison  this  product  is.  Yet,  because  of  the  blind- 
ing influence  of  superstition,  they  advocate  inoculation 
with  vaccines  which  are  "purified"  decomposed  albumin. 

After  reading  Professor  Lloyd's  article  regarding  the 
toxic  influence  of  pure  albumin,  with  how  much  face  can 
believers  in  inoculation  recommend  "pure"  vaccine? 

The  truth  about  vaccines  and  serums  is  that  they  are 
safest  and  purest  when  they  have  been  refined  until  they 
are  inert.  It  is  my  belief  that  all  the  benefit  supposed 
to  be  derived  from  vaccination  and  inoculation  comes 
from  the  suggestion,  and  from  the  innocuousness  of  the 
vaccines. 

When  there  is  any  potency  left  in  these  supposed  rem- 
edies, we  have  fatal  results — calamities  such  as  are  occa- 
sionally reported  in  the  daily  press.  As  has  been  stated 
before,  the  only  reason  why  we  do  not  have  more  fatali- 
ties from  vaccine  against  small-pox  is  because  the  poison 
fails  to  get  deep  enough  to  gain  entrance  to  the  circula- 
tion, or  because  the  material  used  is  inert. 

When  typhoid-fever  patients  are  fed,  the  effort  to 
get  rid  of  the  poison  (food  is  always  a  poison  when  it 
cannot  be  digested — please  refer  to  the  Lloyd  quota- 
tion) accounts  for  all  the  terrible  symptoms  that  are  sup- 
posed to  be  typical  of  typhoid  fever,  but  which  in  reality 
are  the  efforts  of  the  body  to  get  rid  of  disease — efforts 
of  self-preservation.  When  the  feeding  has  been  con- 
tinued until  irritation  has  taken  on  inflammation,  and  in- 
flammation has  taken  on  ulceration,  an  opening  has  been 
made  through  which  albumin,  either  pure  or  modified 
(the  modified  state  we  call  "sepsis"),  is  absorbed;  after 
which,  death  takes  place. 

Albumin  cannot  get  into  the  blood  except  through 
an  irregular  route — either  by  hypodermic  injection  into 
the  veins  or  arteries,  or  by  absorption  through  an  ulcer- 


Carbohydrates 


77 


ated  surface,  or  a  solution  of  continuity  from  an  injury 
of  some  kind. 

Gelatinoids. — Gelatinoids  are  found  in  the  connective 
tissues  in  animals  (calf's-foot  jelly  being  an  example)  ; 
also  in  the  tendons,  skin,  and  bone. 

Extractives. — Extractives  are  such  foods  as  beef  tea 
and  meat  extracts.  In  making  an  extract  of  beef — which 
is  sometimes  called  "beef  tea" — there  is  often  nothing  in 
the  tea  except  extractives — the  mineral  element  con- 
tained in  the  meat.  The  gelatine  of  the  meat  has  become 
so  hard  and  coagulated  that  it  is  precipitated  and  is  fit 
for  nothing.  Cooked  in  the  usual  manner,  it  is  ruined  as 
a  food,  and  all  the  extractives  taken  out  by  the  boiling 
are,  as  stated  above,  simply  the  mineral  element. 

Carbohydrates. — Carbohydrates  are  one  of  the  most 
important  classifications  of  food.  Their  composition  is 
carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen;  the  last  two  in  the  pro- 
portion that  forms  water.  Starch — dextrose — is  repre- 
sented by  the  formula  C6H10O5;  hence  its  name  "carbo- 
hydrate," because  it  is  made  of  carbon  and  water.  The 
carbohydrates  include  starch,  sugar,  and  vegetable  fiber, 
or  cellulose.  These  foods  are  burned  in  the  body  and 
give  out  energy.  They  may  be  converted  into  fat  and 
stored  in  the  body.  People  who  are  inclined  to  take  on 
obesity  are  usually  very  fond  of  sugar  and  starches;  in- 
deed, such  people  will  lose  their  weight  when  deprived 
of  these  foods.  The  starch  forms  only  about  one  per  cent 
of  the  body  weight;  hence  it  is  obvious  that  the  great 
quantity  taken  into  the  system  must  be  burned  up,  or 
oxidized,  and  in  this  way  furnish  heat  for  the  body.  It 
can  readily  be  seen  that,  if  the  composition  of  the  body 
is  only  about  one  per  cent  starch,  the  system  must  be 
taxed  many  times  beyond  all  reason  in  utilizing  the 
amount  taken  in  by  the  average  individual.  The  carbo- 
hydrates must  be  oxidized,  and  when  the  system  is  over- 
supplied.^too  much  heat  is  generated.    This  favors  de- 


78 


Food 


composition  of  the  proteid  element  and  hastens  the  proc- 
ess of  putrefaction.  Indeed,  the  carbohydrates  may  be 
likened  to  the  explosive  element  in  a  cartridge,  and  the 
proteid  to  the  projectile. 

Fat. — Fat,  or  hydrocarbon,  is  an  important  element 
of  food,  serving  the  purpose  of  a  heat-producer,  the  same 
as  the  carbohydrates.  From  the  oxidation  of  hydro- 
carbon, heat  is  produced. 

Fat  or  oil  is  considered  of  more  value  as  a  source  of 
energy  than  the  carbohydrates,  but  it  is  not  so  easily 
digested.  Many  people  waste  about  all  the  fat  they 
take  in  with  their  foods,  because,  on  account  of  not  being 
able  to  emulsify  and  absorb  it,  it  passes  out  of  the  bowels 
undigested. 

A  certain  amount  of  fat  is  necessary  to  keep  the 
bowels  regular.  The  food  that  is  wholly  devoid  of  fat 
favors  constipation.  Those  animals  that  eat  vegetables 
altogether,  such  as  sheep  and  rabbits,  have  very  consti- 
pated stools,  and,  if  they  were  not  anatomically  con- 
structed for  taking  care  of  these  exceedingly  dry  fecal 
discharges,  they  would  probably  die  of  bowel  impaction. 
A  human  being  who  would  undertake  to  live  for  any 
length  of  time  on  such  a  restricted  diet  would  very  soon 
get  into  such  a  condition  that  it  would  be  impossible  to 
have  a  bowel  movement  at  all. 

Fat  forms  about  fifteen  per  cent  of  the  weight  of  the 
average  man;  but,  of  course,  there  must  be  wide  varia- 
tions. Those  who  are  above  weight  may  have  thirty  or 
more  per  cent  of  fat,  and  those  below  weight  may  have 
less  than  fifteen  per  cent — even  less  than  ten  per  cent; 
and,  indeed,  sometimes  we  think  the  tissues  are  devoid  of 
fat  entirely. 

Some  writers  maintain  that  the  ingestion  of  fat  is  a 
factor  in  preventing  muscular  fatigue.  It  is  said  that 
during  the  Franco-Prussian  war,  with  this  end  in  view, 


Nutritive  Ingredient*  of  Food 


79 


the  German  emperor  ordered  that  each  soldier  receive 
two  hundred  and  fifty  grams  of  fat  bacon  per  day. 

Atwater  gives  the  following  table  to  show  the  uses 
of  the  different  food  elements: 


Food  as  pur- 
chased con- 
tains: 


NUTRITIVE  INGREDIENTS  OF  FOOD 
Water 


Edible  portion — e.  g.,  flesh 
of  meat,  yolk  and  white  of 
egg,  wheat  flour,  etc. 


Refuse — e.  g. 


f  Mineral  matter 
Nutrients   J  Protein 

"I  Carbohydrates 
I  Fats 

bones,  entrails,  shells,  bran,  etc. 


USES  OF  NUTRIENTS  IN  THE  BODY 


Protein — forms  tissues;  e.  g.,  white  (albumin)  of  eggs,  curd 
(casein)  of  milk,  lean  meat,  gluten  of  wheat,  etc. 

Fats — are  stored  as  fat;  e.  g.,  fat  of  meat,  butter,  olive  oil 
oils  of  corn,  wheat,  etc. 

Carbohydrates — are  transformed  into  fat;  e.  g.,  sugars 
starches,  etc. 

Mineral  matters  (ash) — share  in  forming  bone,  assist  in  di- 
gestion; e.  g.,  phosphates  of  lime,  etc.;  potash,  soda,  etc.  j 


All  serve  as  fuel  to 
yield  energy  in  the 
forms  of  heat  and 
muscular  power. 


CHAPTER  II 


DIGESTION  AND  ABSORPTION 
DIGESTION 

^Wd§5W^  IGESTION  is  the  process  of  bringing  foods 
m  A  A  to  a  state  of  solution  and  fitting  them  for 
absorption.  This  requires  a  number  of  dif- 
ferent changes,  brought  about  in  the  ali- 
mentary tract  by  the  action  of  certain  fer- 
O^Vy^U'  ments  usually  known  as  "enzymes."  There 
are,  of  course,  changes  in  the  physical  prop- 
erties of  the  food  along  with  the  chemical  changes,  and 
through  the  action  of  the  two  forces  the  useful  part  is 
assimilated,  and  the  remainder  passes  off  as  refuse. 

Enzymes. — Enzymes  are  the  products  of  protoplas- 
mic changes,  and  are  not  endowed  with  life.  They  are 
complex  in  their  nature. 

1.  The  enzymes  which  act  upon  starches  convert 
them  into  soluble  forms — sugar,  or  sugar  and  dextrin. 
We  find  enzymes  of  this  class  in  the  saliva  and  pancreatic 
juice.  They  are  capable  of  converting  glycogen  into 
sugar.    In  plants  there  is  a  similar  enzyme. 

2.  There  are  enzymes  which  act  upon  proteins,  con- 
verting them  into  soluble  substances — peptone  or  prote- 
ose. In  animals  the  pepsin  of  the  gastric  juice  in  the 
stomach  and  the  trypsin  of  the  pancreatic  juice  are  ex- 
amples of  this  class.    A  similar  enzyme  is  found  in  plants. 

3.  Then  there  are  the  fat-splitting  enzymes,  which 
act  upon  the  neutral  fats,  splitting  them  up  into  glycerin 
and  the  corresponding  fatty  acids.  An  enzyme  of  this 
class  is  found  in  the  pancreatic  juice.  Similar  enzymes 
occur  in  seeds. 


Salivary  and  Gastric  Digestion  81 


4.  There  are  also  sugar-splitting  enzymes,  which  con- 
vert the  double  into  single  sugars.  Two  such  enzymes 
are  found  in  the  small  intestine.  One  of  these  acts  on 
cane-sugar,  and  the  other  acts  on  maltose. 

5.  Coagulating  enzymes  are  those  acting  upon 
soluble  proteins,  precipitating  them  in  an  insoluble  form. 
Rennin,  the  milk-curdling  ferment  of  the  gastric  juice, 
is  an  example  of  this  class  of  enzyme. 

6.  Oxidizing  enzymes  set  up  oxidation  processes. 
They  are  found  in  the  various  organs  and  tissues. 

Salivary  Digestion. — Food  taken  into  the  mouth  is 
masticated  and  insalivated,  or  should  be.  The  process  of 
insalivation  means  the  mixing  with  the  food  of  an  alka- 
line secretion  that  has  the  power  to  convert  starch  into 
sugar.  The  enzyme  pt3'alin  of  the  salivary  secretion  con- 
verts the  starch  into  sugar  (maltose). 

Gastric  Digestion. — After  the  food  is  swallowed,  it 
first  comes  in  contact  with  the  gastric  secretions,  and  is 
changed  into  chyme.  Then,  upon  being  liquefied — 
brought  into  a  semi-fluid  state — it  passes  into  the  small  in- 
testines. While  in  the  stomach,  the  food  is  acted  upon  by 
the  gastric  juice,  which  is  a  thin,  almost  colorless  fluid  of  a 
strongly  acid  reaction.  The  acidity  varies  from  40  to  60, 
that  being  the  number  of  cubic  centimeters  of  test  solution 
required  to  neutralize  100  c.c.  of  gastric  fluid.  But 
under  the  influence  of  certain  diseases  the  acidity  may  be 
very  much  increased,  or  greatly  diminished,  or  even  en- 
tirely absent.  Today  there  is  much  talk  of  hyperacidity, 
or  hyperchlorhydria. 

In  other  words,  there  is  a  belief  that  there  is  too 
much  hydrochloric  acid  secreted;  that  from  some  cause 
the  stomach  glands,  like  the  thyroid  gland  in  goiter,  be- 
come too  active  and  secrete  too  much.  My  experience 
has  led  me  to  believe  that  in  all  cases  where  there  is  a 
hyperacidity — where  patients  are  troubled  with  an  acid 
condition  of  the  stomach — it  is  invariably  due  to  an  over- 


82 


Food 


worked  digestion — one  that  fails  to  secrete  the  proper 
amount  of  gastric  juices  to  do  the  digestive  act  well  for 
a  reasonable  intake  of  food.  My  belief  in  the  correctness 
of  this  theory  is  strengthened  by  the  fact  that  where  pa- 
tients adhere  to  instructions  given  to  correct  this  state, 
they  invariably  get  well.  My  prescription  is  a  decided 
cutting-down  of  the  usual  intake  of  food.  If  necessary,  I 
advise  a  fast  of  seventy-two  hours;  then  fruit  may  be 
given  for  seventy- two  hours;  after  that,  the  ordinary  ra- 
tions may  be  taken  in  moderation.  Then,  if  the  patient, 
after  finding  his  digestive  capacity,  will  respect  it,  he  will 
never  return  to  the  condition  where  he  is  troubled  with 
hyperacidity. 

In  addition  to  the  free  hydrochloric  acid,  the  gastric 
juice  contains  pepsin — an  enzyme — and  rennin,  the 
enzyme  that  curdles  milk.  In  people  who  have  been 
thoroughly  weaned  away  from  milk  for  a  number  of 
years  this  rennin  is  not  found.  It  is  supposed  that,  be- 
cause of  the  non-use  of  the  glands  which  furnish  this 
digestive  element,  they  have  been  atrophied,  and  when 
once  lost,  the  digestion  of  milk  is  made  difficult.  Rennin 
curdles  milk  very  rapidly  at  the  body  temperature.  The 
casein  is  converted  from  a  soluble  protein  into  a  more  or 
less  solid  clot,  which  gradually  becomes  firmer  and  ex- 
presses all  the  whey  that  is  contained  in  the  mass.  The 
casein  of  cow's  milk  precipitates  in  large,  firm  clots;  that 
of  human  milk,  in  fine,  flocculent  particles;  which  explains 
the  difference  in  the  digestibility  of  the  two  milks. 

The  enzyme  pepsin  that  is  found  in  the  gastric  juice 
changes  protein  into  peptone — a  fluid  which  is  very  light 
and  which  can  readily  pass  through  the  absorbents. 

Beyond  the  mechanical  alterations  that  take  place 
because  of  the  presence  of  fluid  and  the  churning  of  the 
stomach,  the  starches  are  not  acted  upon  by  the  gastric 
juice. 


Gastric  Digestion 


83 


People  generally,  as  well  as  the  profession,  are  not 
willing  to  accept  my  teaching  that  bread  or  other  starch 
should  not  be  eaten  with  meat;  but  I  think  that  my  posi- 
tion is  impregnable.  All  that  is  necessary  to  prove  the 
truth  is  to  apply  common-sense.  The  gastric  secretions 
are  for  the  purpose  of  converting  the  proteids,  or  the 
tissue-making  foods,  into  a  fluid  for  absorption.  These 
secretions  are  only  stimulated  by  the  eating  of  foods  that 
require  them.  For  instance,  if  a  patient  eats  a  starch 
meal — toasted  bread  and  butter — the  chewing  of  the 
starch  in  the  mouth  excites  the  secretion  that  is  pecu- 
liarly adapted  to  the  digestion  of  the  starch;  that  is,  the 
saliva.  Starch-eating  in  no  wise  stimulates  the  secretion 
of  the  gastric  fluids.  When  meat  is  eaten,  it  causes  a 
flow  of  gastric  secretions.  Like  produces  like.  Necessity 
governs  the  operations  of  digestion.  The  elements  of  a 
food  that  are  peculiarly  fitted  to  a  certain  digestive  fluid 
cause  this  fluid  to  be  secreted.  If  this  is  true,  then,  when 
starch  and  meat  are  eaten  together,  the  stomach  is  made 
a  fool  of;  it  is  forced  to  throw  secretions  into  the  stomach 
that  are  necessary  to  take  care  of  the  protein — the  meat 
— but  which  are  in  chemical  opposition  to  the  diges- 
tive fluids  that  are  required  for  taking  care  of  and  di- 
gesting the  starches.  Hence,  where  both  these  foods  are 
taken  together,  the  meat  will  be  digested  in  the  stomach, 
and  the  starch  will  not.  As  fast  as  both  are  melted 
down,  they  pass  through  the  pyloric  orifice  of  the  stomach 
into  the  small  intestines.  There  the  digestion  of  the 
starch  is  again  taken  up  by  the  alkaline  intestinal  secre- 
tions. But  all  the  time  the  starch  is  in  the  stomach  it  not 
only  is  not  permitted  to  digest,  but  it  also  hinders  to  a 
certain  extent  the  digestion  of  the  meat.  Every  act  of 
eating  the  two  together  invites  indigestion  and  gastric  de- 
rangement. 

Suppose  the  whole  world  does  eat  in  this  way;  I  can 
point  my  finger  to  the  fact  that  the  whole  world  is  sick — 


84 


Food 


that  there  are  not  one-tenth  of  one  per  cent  of  average 
people  who  can  pass  a  strict  examination  for  health. 
This  being  true,  there  must  be  something  desperately 
wrong  with  our  manner  of  living  and  eating. 

Intestinal  Digestion. — When  food  has  passed  into  the 
small  intestines,  it  is  acted  upon  by  three  secretions; 
namely,  pancreatic  juices,  intestinal  juices,  and  the  bile. 
All  these  secretions  act  together,  but  for  the  sake  of  sim- 
plicity they  will  be  taken  up  separately. 

1 .  The  Pancreatic  Juice. — This  fluid  is  emptied  into 
the  intestines  together  with  the  bile,  or  close  to  the  open- 
ing where  the  bile  enters,  and  both  are  mixed  with 
the  food  material  at  the  same  time.  The  pancreatic  juice 
is  alkaline  in  reaction  and  contains  at  least  three,  and 
probably  more,  enzymes. 

One  of  the  enzymes,  trypsin,  is  a  more  active  ferment 
than  the  pepsin  of  the  gastric  juice.  It  continues  the  diges- 
tion of  the  proteins. 

Another  enzyme  present  in  the  intestines  is  amylopsin, 
which  converts  starch  into  sugar  in  the  same  way  as 
the  ptyalin  of  the  saliva.  Inasmuch  as  the  ptyalin 
digestion  ceases  with  the  entrance  of  the  food  into  the 
stomach,  especially  when  meat  is  eaten  with  starch,  it 
must  be  resumed  in  the  intestine.  It  is  important  that  the 
starches  should  be  completely  digested  in  the  small  in- 
testine, particularly  as  a  large  part  of  the  heat  and  energy 
consumed  by  the  body  is  derived  from  some  form  of 
starchy  food. 

Steapsin,  a  third  enzyme,  splits  up  the  neutral  fats  into 
glycerin  and  free  fatty  acids. 

The  pancreatic  juice  and  bile  secretions  emulsify  oils, 
and,  where  there  is  a  lack  of  secretion  from  the  liver  and 
pancreas,  there  are  invariably  constipation  and  intestinal 
indigestion.  Those  who  are  lacking  in  these  secretions 
force  themselves  into  catarrh  of  the  large  intestines, 
known  as  colitis,  by  persisting  in  eating  starches  and 


Intestinal  Digestion 


85 


sugars.  The  colitis  perhaps  is  due  entirely  to  the  con- 
stipation and  the  local  poisoning  resulting  from  the  in- 
fection of  excretions.  To  cure  constipation,  it  is  neces- 
sary to  correct  the  health  of  the  patient — correct  his  diet 
so  that  there  will  be  re-established  a  normal  secretion 
from  the  liver  and  pancreas.  All  reliefs,  palliatives,  and 
aids  used  for  overcoming  constipation  are  of  very  little 
worth,  so  far  as  bringing  about  a  normal  state  of  the 
system  is  concerned.  Those  who  are  troubled  with  a 
great  deal  of  gas  in  the  bowels,  constipation,  and  passing 
of  mucus  in  the  stools,  should  be  suspicious  that  there  is 
not  a  normal  secretion  from  the  liver;  hence  the  use  of 
foods  that  are  digested  by  the  intestinal  secretions,  such 
as  sugar,  starch,  and  oils,  must  be  suspended,  and  reliance 
put  upon  vegetables,  meat,  fresh  fruit,  and  such  sweet 
fruit  as  will  be  taken  care  of  by  the  mouth  and  stomach — 
grapes,  oranges,  perfectly  ripe  apples,  raisins  thoroughly 
masticated,  etc. 

2.  The  Intestinal  Secretion. — This  secretion  is 
strongly  alkaline  from  the  presence  of  sodium  carbonate, 
and  this  may  aid  in  the  emulsification  of  fat.  Otherwise 
the  intestinal  secretion  probably  does  not  have  any  action 
on  the  proteins  and  fats.  The  source  of  this  soda  is  the 
decomposition  or  splitting  of  salt  (chlorid  of  sodium) 
into  soda  for  the  liver  and  hydrochloric  acid  for  the  stom- 
ach. The  secretion  of  the  intestines  contains  three  fer- 
ments which  act  upon  carbohydrates. 

As  we  descend  the  intestinal  tract,  the  quantity  of 
enzymes  contained  in  the  intestinal  secretion  becomes 
smaller.  The  large  intestine  secretes  mucus,  but  not 
enzymes.  There  are  several  less  important  fluids  secreted 
in  the  small  intestines. 

3.  Liver — Bile. — The  liver  is  one  of  the  most  im- 
portant organs  of  the  body.  It  is  the  reservoir  or  ware- 
house for  glycogen.  One  of  its  important  functions  is 
that  of  secreting  bile,  and  bile  is  an  adjuvant  to  diges- 


86 


Food 


tion.  Where  there  is  a  failure  to  secrete  the  normal 
amount  of  bile  into  the  intestines,  constipation  follows. 
The  bile  is  looked  upon  as  antiseptic.  It  has  a  tendency 
to  prevent  decomposition.  Where  the  normal  amount 
is  not  secreted  into  the  intestines,  there  is  a  tendency  for 
intestinal  indigestion,  decomposition,  infection,  and  mal- 
odor.  The  bile  assists  in  the  emulsifying  of  fats,  and 
favors  decidedly  their  absorption.  When  there  is  a  lack 
of  bile,  the  feces  are  very  light  in  color,  besides  having  a 
rank  odor.  It  would  be  perfectly  natural  for  putrefaction 
to  take  place  when  there  is  a  lack  of  bile,  because  with- 
holding this  secretion  favors  indigestion. 

Some  authors  declare  that  the  whole  supply  of 
bile  may  be  diverted  and  still  the  animal  maintain  health. 
But  the  question  is,  how  long?  Observations  of  such  a 
character  must  extend  over  a  long  period  before  they 
will  be  of  much  importance.  We  have  altogether  too 
many  snapshot  verdicts  in  regard  to  cause  and  effect  in 
the  science  of  medicine.  In  other  words,  conclusions  are 
arrived  at  with  too  small  an  amount  of  data  to  make 
them  reliable. 

Glycogen  is  soluble  in  water,  and  is  of  the  same  gen- 
eral chemical  formula  as  starch.  The  digestive  juices 
act  on  glycogen  in  the  same  way  as  on  starch.  Glycogen 
is  generally  recognized  as  animal  starch.  As  stated 
before,  the  liver  is  a  warehouse,  and  muscular  tissues 
throughout  the  system  are  distributing  agents.  As  the 
material  is  used  up  in  the  body,  it  is  resupplied  from  the 
liver,  unless  there  is  an  intake  of  food.  It  appears  in 
greatest  quantities  after  meals,  and  disappears  altogether 
after  fasting. 

Carbohydrate  foods  aid  directly  in  the  formation  of 
glycogen.  It  is  said  that  glycogen  can  be  made  from 
proteins,  and  that  it  occurs  pathologically  in  diabetes. 
Where  there  is  more  sugar  taken  into  the  system  than  can 
be  utilized,  it  passes  off  by  way  of  the  kidneys.     It  is 


Absorption 


87 


supposed  that  glycogen  changes  into  dextrose  by  the 
action  of  enzymes.  Glycogen  in  the  muscles  is  oxidized, 
and  its  energy  converted  into  muscular  force. 

Another  function  of  the  liver  is  the  formation  of  urea. 
After  the  nitrogenous  elements  have  been  consumed, 
they  are  eliminated  from  the  body  by  way  of  the  kidneys, 
in  the  form  of  urea.  That  urea  is  formed  in  the  liver  has 
been  proved  experimentally. 

ABSORPTION 

The  process  known  as  absorption  is  divided  into  two 
processes;  or  it  may  be  said  that  it  takes  place  in  two 
ways.  The  material  to  be  absorbed  either  enters  directly 
into  the  blood,  and  passes  thence  to  the  liver;  or  it  enters 
the  lacteals,  and  is  passed  through  the  thoracic  duct  to 
enter  the  blood  current  of  the  jugular  and  subclavian 
veins. 

Stomach  Absorption. — Formerly  it  was  believed  that 
much  absorption  took  place  in  the  stomach,  but  now  some 
authors  declare  that  food  is  not  absorbed  in  the  stomach. 
Some  even  believe  that  water  is  not  absorbed  there, 
but  that  all  the  contents  of  the  stomach  must  pass  into 
the  small  intestines  for  absorption.  This  may  or  may 
not  be  true.  It  does  not  appear  reasonable  that  some 
absorption  does  not  take  place  in  the  stomach.  The 
mucous  membrane  of  the  stomach  must  take  up  fluid. 
The  action  of  the  absorbents  is  so  rapid  that  it  does  not 
seem  reasonable  to  believe  that  the  stomach  should  be 
excused  from  its  part  in  this  work.  If  certain  drugs  can 
be  absorbed  by  the  mouth,  and  in  a  very  few  minutes  be 
detected  in  the  urine,  it  does  not  seem  reasonable  to  be- 
lieve that  poisons  and  other  substances  cannot  be  taken 
up  by  the  stomach. 

It  is  well  not  to  take  too  restricted  views  of  this  sub- 
ject   A  happy  medium,  it  seems  to  me,  is  best. 


88 


Food 


Fats  are  not  absorbed  in  the  stomach,  because  they 
must  be  emulsified,  and  this  process  cannot  take  place  until 
the  oils  or  fats  reach  the  pancreatic  and  liver  secretions, 
whose  functions  are  to  emulsify  them  and  prepare  them 
for  absorption.  The  fatty  acids  are  probably  dissolved 
out  of  the  fats  by  the  acid  of  the  stomach,  and  then  ab- 
sorbed. As  proof,  the  odor  of  oil  is  thrown  off  by  the 
lungs  too  soon  after  swallowing  it  to  justify  a  belief  that 
it  has  had  time  to  be  taken  up  in  the  intestine. 

Intestinal  Absorption. — Absorption  takes  place  prin- 
cipally in  the  small  intestines.  The  food  is  supposed  to 
pass  out  of  the  small  intestines  in  from  five  to  twenty 
hours.  On  entering  the  large  intestines,  the  food  is  in  a 
fluid  condition,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  a  large 
amount  of  water  and  salts  has  been  taken  out  during  its 
passage  through  the  small  intestines.  The  absorption  of 
water  is  supposed  to  take  place  principally  in  the  small 
intestines.  The  water  that  is  absorbed  is  taken  up  there 
by  the  capillaries  without  first  passing  through  the  lacteals. 

Protein  material  is  absorbed  after  having  been  con- 
verted into  peptone  or  proteose.  It  is  believed  that  egg 
albumin  may  be  absorbed  directly.* 

The  carbohydrates  are  absorbed  as  dextrose  or  levu- 
lose.  Dextrose  can  be  found  in  the  blood.  The  absorp- 
tion which  takes  place  in  the  large  intestines  is  supposed 
to  be  chiefly  that  of  water. 

The  material  that  is  to  pass  out  of  the  body  as  feces 
enters  the  large  intestine  from  the  small  intestine  in  a 
very  liquid  condition.  The  fluid  portion  is  absorbed 
during  its  progress  through  the  large  intestines,  and  is 
supposed  to  require  about  twelve  hours  in  reaching  the 
rectum,  at  which  point  it  is  almost  solid. 


*See  quotation  from  Professor  Lloyd's  article,  pages  73- 


CHAPTER  III 


CLASSES  OF  FOODS* 
ANIMAL  FOODS 

^  HE  animal  foods  are  considered  by  many 

I trie  most  important  in  the  human  dietary. 
Then  we  have  another  class  of  people,  known 
as  vegetarians,  who  think  that  meat  should 
have  no  place  in  the  human  dietary.  It  is 
rj"  my  opinion  that  there  is  a  place  for  all  foods; 
and,  as  meat,  milk,  and  other  animal  foods 
are  easier  of  digestion  than  the  grains,  it  shall  be  my 
endeavor  to  point  out,  as  nearly  as  I  can,  the  place  that 
animal  foods  should  occupy  in  a  well-balanced  dietary 
system. 

The  important  element  in  animal  foods  is  pro- 
teid.  Animal  foods  are  so  thoroughly  digested  that  they 
leave  but  little  residue  in  the  intestines;  hence  a  certain 
amount  of  vegetables  and  fruit  should  be  eaten  with 
meat  to  give  the  bowels  enough  waste  product  to  secure 
an  action  each  day.  Besides,  raw  vegetables  and  fruit 
cause  the  elimination  of  urea — prevent  meat  poisoning. 

The  various  forms  of  animal  food  are  Milk,  Eggs, 
Meat,  Fish,  and  Gelatin. 

MILK  AND  MILK  PRODUCTS 

Milk  in  its  composition  represents  the  four  nutritive 
constituents  of  a  mixed  diet;  namely,  proteids,  carbohy- 
drates, fats,  and  mineral  salts.  Unadulterated,  it  contains 
from  90  to  84  per  cent  of  water,  varying  with  the  quality 
of  the  milk. 


*I  am  indebted  to  the  United  States  Department  of  Agri- 
culture, Professor  Sherman,  of  Columbia  University,  and  per- 
haps others,  for  having-  furnished  the  principal  data  on  food 
values  used  in  writing  this  chapter. 


90 


Food 


COMPARATIVE  COMPOSITION  OF  VARIOUS  KINDS  OF  MILK 


Total  Solids 

Kind 
of 

Water 

Total 

Protein 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Mineral 

1?,,  ~1 

r  uei 
Value 

Milk 

Solids 

Casein 

Albu- 
min 

Total 
Protein 

Fat 

(Milk 
Sugar) 

Matters 
(Ash) 

per 
Pound 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Per 
Cent 

Calories 

Woman  . 

87.4 

12.6 

1.0 

1.3 

2.3 

3.8 

6.2 

0.3 

319 

Cow  

87.2 

12.8 

3.0 

0.5 

3.5 

3.7 

4.9 

0.7 

313 

Goat  . . . 

85.7 

14.3 

3.2 

1.1 

4.3 

4.8 

4.4 

0.8 

365 

The  proteid  constitutes  about  3  per  cent  of  the  com- 
position of  milk.  Formerly  it  was  thought  that  milk 
carried  a  larger  percentage  of  proteid.  The  principal 
proteid  is  casein,  which  is  in  a  state  of  solution — said  to 
be  kept  so  by  its  admixture  with  phosphates  of  lime.  It 
is  to  this  mixture  that  milk  owes  its  whiteness. 

Besides  casein,  there  is  lactalbumin — another  pro- 
teid— which  is  found  in  milk  in  a  very  small  quantity, 
making  up  only  one-seventh  of  the  total  proteid  in  cow's 
milk. 

Proteids  in  Milk. — There  are  two  kinds  of  proteids 
in  milk;  namely,  casein  and  albumin.  In  cow's  milk 
there  is  more  of  the  former,  the  proportion  being  given 
as  four  parts  of  casein  and  one  of  albumin.  In  human 
milk  the  proportions  are  equal. 

The  albumin  proteid  is  much  easier  of  digestion  than 
the  casein  proteid ;  hence  human  milk  is  easier  of  digestion 
than  cow's  milk. 

It  is  supposed  that  the  casein  of  milk  is  kept  in  solu- 
tion by  phosphate  of  lime.  This  is  the  reason  why  doc- 
tors generally  recommend  that  lime-water  be  put  in  milk 
in  baby-feeding.  Possibly  the  lime-water  prescription  is 
oftener  due  to  force  of  habit  than  to  the  result  of  any 


Milk 


91 


special  thought  on  the  subject.  It  is  rather  far-fetched 
to  imagine  that  calcium  oxide  (quicklime)  can  take  the 
place  of  the  phosphate  of  lime  that  is  found  in  milk. 

The  fat  is  suspended  in  the  milk  in  the  form  of  minute 
globules,  which  give  the  milk  its  white  color  and  opacity. 
Fat  averages  about  4  per  cent  of  milk,  or  about  31  per  cent 
of  the  total  solids. 

The  chief  carbohydrate  of  milk  is  lactose,  or  milk  sugar. 
Milk  sugar  is  not  nearly  so  sweet  as  ordinary  sugar,  and  is 
less  soluble  in  water.  It  reacts  to  Fehling's  solution  like  glu- 
cose. In  the  presence  of  the  lactic  acid  bacillus  it  is  con- 
verted into  lactic  acid,  which  causes  the  milk  to  turn  sour. 
Lactose  forms  about  38  per  cent  of  the  total  solids. 

Milk  contains  about  0.7  per  cent  of  salts.  These  salts 
exist  chiefly  in  the  form  of  phosphates,  chlorids,  and  sulphates. 
Potassium  salts  occur  in  larger  quantities  than  do  sodium 
salts.  Calcium  salts  are  very  essential  to  young,  growing 
animals,  inasmuch  as  they  play  a  very  important  part  in  the 
formation  of  bone. — Sherman. 

The  Cow  Should  Be  Fed  Properly. — When  milk  is 
from  a  cow  properly  fed,  watered,  and  cared  for,  it  will 
carry  to  man  the  elements  necessary  for  his  health, 
growth,  and  well-being. 

When  children  are  to  be  fed  cow's  milk,  too  much 
care  cannot  be  given  the  cow.  Besides  having  proper 
food,  she  must  be  under  the  proper  psychical  influence. 
All  animals  show  a  perversion  of  quantity  and  quality 
of  milk  when  irritated  and  treated  unkindly.  Abuse  is 
a  boomerang  that  returns  to  curse  its  author.  Mothers 
that  ignorantly  or  wilfully  abuse  their  own  health  often 
kill  the  thing  they  love  (their  children)  by  forcing  an 
alteration  in  their  milk.  Mothers  should  be  protected 
from  influences  that  affect  them  detrimentally.  Until 
the  human  race  learns  how  to  protect  its  mothers,  the 
ideal  man  will  not  evolve. 

Milk  Inspection. — Milk  inspectors  should  not  stop 
with  viewing  dairies  and  analyzing  the  milk;  they  should 
know  about  the  food  and  water  given,  and  all  that  it  ia 


92 


Food 


possible  to  learn  of  the  character  of  the  milkers  and  the 
keepers  of  the  cattle.  Men  of  moody  disposition  should 
not  have  anything  to.  do  with  the  animals  that  furnish 
food — meat  and  milk.  Indeed,  plant  life  will  be  more 
or  less  affected  by  the  moods  of  the  caretaker. 

Milk  is  a  delicately  constructed  organism,  and  should 
be  cared  for  properly.  As  in  the  case  of  all  organisms, 
one  of  the  most  important  requirements  for  its  health  and 
life  is  cleanliness.  Sluts  and  slatterns  can  very  easily  con- 
vert the  best  milk  into  a  seething  gehenna.  In  truth,  there 
have  been  more  children  sacrificed  to  the  Moloch  of  filth 
than  were  ever  dreamt  of  being  sacrificed  to  the  Moloch 
of  the  Canaanites.  Cleanliness  must  become  organized 
knowledge — the  unclean  must  live  the  knowledge  before 
it  becomes  their  very  own. 

The  Proper  Way  to  Feed  Milk. — When  it  is  possible, 
children  that  are  fed  cow's  milk  should  have  it  fresh  from 
the  cow,  while  it  is  still  warm  with  animal  heat.  A  good 
way  to  feed  children  during  the  summer  months  is  to 
give  them  warm  milk  from  the  cow  or  goat,  morning  and 
night,  and  all  the  fresh  fruit — with  spinach,  lettuce,  or 
cabbage — that  they  can  eat,  at  noon.  Fresh,  ripe  fruit 
is  quite  enough,  without  vegetables,  when  fruit  can  be 
had.  The  spinach  is  much  more  alkaline  than  lettuce  or 
cabbage;  hence  it  is  the  first  choice.  To  prepare:  Grind 
the  vegetable  in  a  vegetable  mill,  then  rub  it  through  a 
sieve.  Prepare  the  fruit  (blackberries  are  best  when  they 
can  be  had,  or  any  well-ripened  fruit)  in  the  same  way; 
after  which,  mix  the  fruit  and  vegetable  together  in  equal 
parts.  Children  with  teeth,  and  old  enough  to  chew, 
may  have  a  salad  of  the  fruit  and  spinach,  dressed  with 
salt  and  olive  oil,  or  the  regulation  vegetable  salad.  Ani- 
mal foods  tend  to  reduce  the  alkalinity  of  the  fluids  of 
the  body;  hence  the  need  of  alkaline  vegetables.  What 
kind  of  fruit?  Any  fresh  fruit  that  is  not  too  sour.  The 
fruit  should  be  fresh. 


Milk  93 

chemical  difference  between  human  and  cow's  milk 

Human  Milk  Cow's  Milk 

(Per  Cent)  (Per  Cent) 

Water                                                                   87.0-88.0  87.0-88.0 

Proteid                                                                       1.0-2.0  3.0-4.0 

Fat                                                                            3.0-  4.0  3.5-  4.5 

Sugar                                                                      6.0-7.0  4.0-5.0 

Mineral  matter                                                           0.1-0.2  0.7-1.0 

Reaction                                                                   Alkaline  Acid 

Milk  is  the  exclusive  diet  of  young  mammals,  but,  ow- 
ing to  the  fact  that  the  proportion  of  proteins  and  fats  is 
in  excess  of  carbohydrates,  it  is  unsuited  as  an  exclusive 
diet  for  adults. 

Changes  Common  to  Milk. — Milk,  on  standing,  sep- 
arates into  cream  on  top,  and  a  lower  part,  which  is 
called  "skimmed  milk'*  after  the  cream  has  been  taken 
away.  The  skimmed  milk  is  of  a  bluish-white  color  and 
free  from  fat. 

The  specific  gravity  of  milk  ranges  from  1.027  to 
1.035,  and  it  freezes  at  a  slightly  lower  temperature  than 
water. 

Milk  exposed  to  the  air  develops  acidity:  the  milk 
sugar  changes  to  lactic  and  other  acids. 

The  0. 7  per  cent  of  salts  found  in  milk  is  made  up  of 
phosphates,  chlorids,  and  sulphates.  The  potash  salts 
predominate  over  the  soda  salts.  Lime  is  necessary  for 
the  bony  development  of  the  young. 

Milk  takes  on  the  odor  and  taste  of  odorinc  foods 
eaten  by  the  cow.  The  ragweed  gives  milk  a  very 
nauseating  taste. 

Heat  changes  milk.  To  pasteurize  milk  causes  a 
change,  but  it  is  not  known  what  the  change  is,  and  this 
is  why  children  should  be  given  milk  that  is  warm  from 
the  cow.  When  this  cannot  be  done,  the  milk  should  be 
put  into  bottles  that  have  been  boiled  and  sunned,  and, 
when  possible,  the  milk  should  be  kept  in  a  warm  place. 
The  object  in  keeping  it  warm  is  to  prevent  chilling, 
which  renders  it  less  valuable  as  a  food  for  babies  and 


94 


Food 


invalids.  Milk  shbuld  be  agitated  as  little  as  possible 
when  it  is  to  be  fed  to  sick  babies. 

Scalding  milk  changes  the  taste  and  renders  it  easier 
of  digestion,  but  less  nutritive  and  more  constipating. 
Because  of  this  tendency,  scalded  milk  must  be  used 
very  carefully.  In  diarrheas,  scalded  or  boiled  milk  is 
often  the  most  appropriate  food  until  the  bowel  derange- 
ment is  overcome. 

The  freezing  of  milk  is  resorted  to  as  a  means  of  keep- 
ing it  during  transportation.  Once  frozen,  it  should  be 
kept  frozen  until  used.  Cold  storage  is  frequently  re- 
sorted to.  It  is  said  that  milk  kept  at  0°  C.  develops 
bacteria. 

Ice-cream  takes  on  change  when  kept  for  a  long  time, 
and  severe  poisoning  has  been  known  to  have  taken  place 
in  those  who  have  eaten  of  cream  that  has  been  kept  for 
months. 

Preservatives  are  frequently  used  to  keep  milk  from 
changing,  the  most  common  being  formaldehyde,  boric 
acid,  borax,  salicylic  acid,  and  benzoic  acid.  Milk  that 
does  not  sour  in  a  reasonable  time  should  be  tested  for 
drugs.    Milk  should  not  be  drugged. 

According  to  careful  analysis,  milk  is  said  to  be  a 
fairly  economical  food,  compared  with  other  animal 
foods;  a  quart  of  milk  being  approximately  equivalent  to 
a  pound  of  steak,  or  to  eight  or  nine  eggs. 

The  carbohydrate  of  milk  (lactose),  like  other  sugars, 
does  not  require  the  action  of  the  salivary  or  pancreatic 
juice  for  its  digestion;  and  it  is  not  so  liable  to  ferment 
as  sucrose  and  glucose. 

If  one  quart  of  milk  is  equivalent  to  a  pound  of 
steak,  it  should  be  obvious  to  anyone  how  easy  it  is  to 
overeat. 

Suppose  a  hearty  meal  is  eaten  and,  instead  of  using 
water  as  a  table  beverage,  a  glass  or  two  of  milk  should 
be  taken;  this  means  that  the  equivalent  of  from  one- 


Milk 


95 


fourth  to  one-half  pound  of  steak  is  added  to  the  meal. 
The  difference,  however,  v/ould  be  that,  if  the  overeating 
is  of  milk,  the  digestive  system  per  se  will  not  be  so 
heavily  taxed;  for  the  carbohydrate  of  milk  is  already 
in  solution  and,  like  all  other  sugars,  does  not  require 
the  action  of  the  salivary  or  pancreatic  secretions  for  its 
digestion.  Besides,  it  has  the  advantage  over  sucrose  and 
glucose  of  being  less  inclined  to  ferment;  hence  it  is  less 
liable  to  irritate  the  stomach. 

Many  people  are  troubled  with  gas  accumulating  in 
the  stomach  and  bowels  when  eating  freely  of  fresh 
fruits.  All  such  should  stop  fruit  and  live  on  milk  for 
a  few  days;  then  eat  less  fruit  when  resuming  the  fruit 
diet. 

People  with  a  very  sensitive  state  of  digestion  are 
known  as  very  nervous  people — sometimes  they  are  very 
irritable.  Where  they  can  take  hot  milk  with  a  relish,  it 
usually  agrees  with  them,  and  they  improve  on  milk  when 
they  grow  worse  on  almost  every  other  food. 

It  should  not  be  forgotten  that  it  is  just  as  necessary 
to  try  to  correct  the  mental  state  as  it  is  to  try  to  correct 
the  physical.  An  irritable  state  of  the  mind  once  started 
is  governed  by  the  law  of  motion;  hence  its  tendency  is 
to  continue,  unless  the  will  is  brought  into  play  to  stop  it. 

The  Protein  Requirement. — The  solution  to  the  ques- 
tion of  how  much  protein  is  required  lies  to  a  greater  or 
less  extent  in  milk.  Human  milk  has  little  else  at  the 
start  than  carbohydrates;  for  the  infant  needs  only  heat. 
As  its  activity  increases,  the  percentage  of  protein  in- 
creases to  meet  the  demand  of  waste  and  growth.  V/aste 
is  not  met  in  the  first  days  of  infantile  life;  for  all  babies 
decline  in  weight  the  first  few  days  after  birth.  The 
helplessness  of  human  babies,  as  compared  with  the  young 
of  animals,  is  marked;  and  this  difference  is  indicated  by 
an  analysis  of  the  milk  of  animals,  all  of  which  contains 
more  protein  than  the  human  milk. 


96 


Food 


The  young  of  animals  that  locomote  immediately 
after  birth  must  be  supplied  with  protein  for  muscle- 
building.  The  chick  is  a  marked  example;  for  it  begins 
at  once  to  pick  at  its  mother's  food. 

The  argument  brought  forward  by  Professor  Taylor 
is  so  good  that  I  quote  it  verbatim.  In  writing  of  the 
"Protein  Content  of  Milk,"  he  says: 

The  most  striking  statistical  evidence  bearing  on  the 
question  lies  in  the  protein  content  of  milk.  This,  however, 
is  not  in  favor  of,  but  is  opposed  to,  the  idea  of  a  high  input 
of  protein  in  the  standard  ration.  It  is  a  fair  argument  that 
the  amount  of  protein  relatively  necessary  in  the  diet  of  a 
growing  infant  may  be  taken  as  an  amount  fully  competent 
in  the  adult.  To  the  mind  of  the  writer,  the  sole  escape  from 
this  conclusion  must  rest  upon  some  hypothesis  that  the 
dynamo-genetic  utilization  of  protein  possesses  a  peculiar  and 
exceptional  value  (which  means,  if  there  is  not  some  un- 
known way  by  which  protein  can  be  converted  into  energy); 
unless  it  can  be  shown  that,  in  the  conversion  of  protein  heat- 
energy  into  work,  the  protein  input  per  unit  in  infancy  must 
be  regarded  as  the  maximum  coefficient,  since  at  no  other 
time  of  life  are  such  demands  made  upon  the  anabolic  (build- 
ing-up) functions. 

A  pound  of  whole  milk  is  supposed  to  contain  three 
and  three-tenths  grams  of  protein,  and  man  requires  one 
gram  per  kilo  of  body  weight.  One  kilo  equals  two  and 
two-tenths  pounds.  A  person  weighing  one  hundred  and 
forty  pounds  weighs  approximately  sixty-four  kilos.  If 
the  protein  intake  required  is  one  gram  per  kilo  of  bodily 
weight,  then  a  person  weighing  one  hundred  and  forty 
pounds,  or  sixty-four  kilos,  requires  sixty-four  grams  of 
protein.  If  one  pound  of  whole  milk  contains  three  and 
three-tenths  grams,  a  man  or  woman  weighing  one  hun- 
dred and  forty  pounds  requires  from  six  to  ten  quarts  a 
day.  This  estimate  is  based  on  tables  furnished  by  the 
government.  I  would  not  recommend  more  than  one-half 
the  amount,  or  ten  pints.  This  means,  of  course,  an 
exclusive  milk  diet.     There  are  estimated  to  be  three 


Milk 


97 


hundred  and  thirteen  calories  in  one  pound  of  cow's 
milk;  ten  pints  carry  a  caloric  value  of  three  thousand 
one  hundred  and  thirty  calories.  From  two  thousand  to 
six  thousand  calories  is  said  to  be  the  amount  of  heat 
generation  necessary  to  man  to  meet  the  exigencies  of 
his  life.  An  estimate  is  made  that  from  four  to  five  thou- 
sand calories  are  required  by  a  laborer.  If  so,  and  he  were 
fed  milk,  he  would  require  ten  quarts  a  day;  or  from 
five  to  eight  pounds  of  meat  a  day;  or  three  pounds  of 
baked  beans;  or  twenty  ounces  of  butter  or  fat  pork;  or, 
for  an  ordinary  supply  of  food  for  a  man  not  at  work, 
three  pounds  of  bread  and  three  pints  of  buttermilk.  Is 
it  any  wonder  that  men  who  work  hard  die  early,  when 
fed  according  to  the  fuel  laws  of  an  engine? 

No  person  who  has  any  sense  of  proportion  can  read 
the  estimates  made  on  food  requirements  by  our  best  text- 
books without  a  feeling  of  disgust  at  the  amount  recom- 
mended, or,  I  would  better  say,  the  amount  declared  to 
be  necessary  for  the  maintenance  of  a  digestive  equi- 
librium. 

Combinations. — Milk  taken  with  the  ordinary  meals 
builds  catarrh.  Why?  Because  of  overeating.  When 
milk  is  used  as  a  table  beverage,  few  people  give  any 
thought  to  its  food  value,  but  eat  as  much  of  the  common 
food  of  the  table  when  taking  milk  as  when  taking  water. 

Suppose  two  glasses  of  buttermilk  are  used  at  a  full 
meal,  instead  of  coffee,  tea,  or  water.  One  hundred 
and  sixty  heat  units,  and  over  three  grams  of  protein, 
are  added  to  the  meal.  One-tenth  as  much  building 
material  as  is  required  by  the  body  is  taken  in  without 
need.  If  whole  milk  is  used,  three  hundred  and  ten 
units,  and  three  and  three-tenths  grams  of  proteid,  are 
added  above  what  is  necessary.  This  crowding  of 
nutrition  develops  a  catarrhal  state  that  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  hay-fever,  asthma,  or  catarrhal  inflammations 
of  various  mucous  membranes.     Pneumonia  and  other 


98 


Food 


acute  diseases  follow  in  the  wake  of  crowded  nutrition. 
Fibroid  tumors  and  uterine  catarrh  are  always  found 
among  women  who  have  broken  down  their  health  by 
crowding  their  systems  with  food,  bringing  on  gastro- 
intestinal indigestion,  constipation,  autotoxemia,  etc. 

When  milk  is  used,  no  other  animal  food  should  be 
used  in  the  same  meal.  Three  quarts  of  whole  milk 
furnish  nineteen  hundred  calories  and  seventy-five  grams 
of  protein.  This  would  serve  for  a  summer  diet,  but  more 
heat,  as  well  as  protein,  would  be  required  for  winter. 
Four  ounces  of  raisins  with  each  quart  of  milk  would  add 
one  thousand  and  fifty  heat  units  to  the  day's  supply. 
Dates  and  figs  add  about  the  same  amount  of  heat  to  the 
body  as  raisins. 

The  best  fat  for  those  who  have  lung  derangement 
is  cream. 

Standard  milk  carries  from  three  and  a  half  to  four 
per  cent  fat.  Milk  carrying  eighteen  and  one-half  per 
cent  fat  is  as  near  pure  cream  as  lung  patients  should 
indulge  in. 

A  glass  of  this  milk  contains  four  hundred  and  forty 
calories,  and  only  sixty-four  hundredths  per  cent  of  pro- 
tein. Add  to  the  glass  of  cream  a  glass  of  buttermilk, 
and  this  restores  the  protein  content  of  a  pound  of  milk. 
Five  pints  of  one-third,  eighteen  per  cent  cream,  and  two- 
thirds  buttermilk,  contain  approximately  twenty-two  hun- 
dred calories  and  thirty-four  grams  of  proteid. 

During  the  summer  months,  if  more  heating  food  is 
desired,  sweet,  fresh  fruits  may  be  added  to  the  milk. 

A  pound  of  buttermilk  is  supposed  to  carry  thirteen 
and  a  half  grams  of  proteid.  It  is  obvious  that  the  soda- 
fountain  business — the  drug-store  habit  of  drinking  but- 
termilk between  meals — will  add  to  the  sum-total  of  the 
usual  sickness  of  the  community  by  crowding  nutrition. 
A  pound  of  beer  will  not  do  so  much  harm  as  a  pound 
of  buttermilk.  "The  prohibition  of  alcoholics,  and  the 


Milk 


99 


substitution  of  milk,  eggs,  and  other  food-drinks,  will  not 
raise  the  general  efficiency  of  the  people;  quite  the  con- 
trary, there  will  be  more  diseases  built. 

The  proteins  of  milk  are  highly  nutritive — so  de- 
clared by  most  dietitians.  The  thought  suggests  itself  to 
my  mind  that  the  reason  for  the  proteins  of  milk  being 
almost  wholly  digestible — about  ninety-eight  per  cent  di- 
gestible even  when  taken  with  a  small  amount  of  bread 
or  other  solid  food — is  because  milk  is  not  a  finished  prod- 
uct; it  is  in  the  developmental  state;  it  has  not  finished 
its  destiny  in  the  process  of  evolution;  its  differentiation 
has  not  been  completed.  As  a  food  it  belongs  to  the 
vital  class  of  foods  to  which  belong  eggs,  nuts,  and  seeds. 
These  foods  are  possessed  of  more  genesial  power  than 
meat,  which  as  a  food  has  reached  the  acme  of  its  syn- 
thetical power  and  is  possessed  of  a  very  low,  if  indeed 
it  can  furnish  any,  coefficient  energy  in  the  process  of 
digestion. 

So  vital  is  milk  that  its  proteins  not  only  show  a 
high  coefficiency  in  digestion,  but  they  show  an  adapta- 
bility for  bringing  about  a  storage  of  protein  in  the  body. 
The  reason,  advanced  by  a  few  authors,  is  that  the 
casein  contains  phosphorus  as  an  essential  constituent. 
Rosemann  has  proved  that  nitrogen  and  phosphorus  are 
more  readily  obtained  with  a  diet  of  phosphoprotein  than 
with  simple  proteins  and  inorganic  phosphates.  The  idea 
of  the  difference  in  the  proteins  of  matured  foods  is  that 
the  former  foods  are  in  the  ascendency,  or  on  the  evolu- 
tionary side  of  life;  while  the  latter  are  on  the  involu- 
tionary,  or  disintegrating,  side  of  life. 

Again  we  are  reminded  that,  if  we  would  feed  the 
body  the  mineral  elements,  we  must  find  them  properly 
organized  in  food-stuffs;  for  in  no  other  way  are  they 
assimilable. 

Children  who  are  early  weaned  from  the  use  of  milk 
suffer  much  from  the  lack  of  cell  salts.    When  children 


100 


Food 


are  taken  from  milk  early,  and  are  taught  to  eat  without 
it,  they  do  not  develop  much  desire  for  fruit.  They  eat 
so  little  fruit  and  raw  vegetables  that  they  become  dy- 
semic — develop  an  abnormal  composition  of  the  blood. 
When  this  state  is  joined  by  autotoxemia,  these  subjects 
are  in  line  for  any  and  all  diseases  peculiar  to  children, 
and  later  on  to  all  the  diseases  peculiar  to  adult  life. 

The  use  of  milk — which  is  the  natural  food  of  grow- 
ing children — with  fresh,  uncooked  fruit  and  vegetables 
would  build  children  normal  in  mind  and  body.  Instead 
of  sickness  being  the  rule  in  childhood,  it  would  be  the 
exception,  as  it  should  be. 

What  has  supplanted  milk  as  a  food  in  growing? 
Bread,  and  bread,  and  more  bread;  breakfast  foods  of 
all  kinds.  Sugar  and  sweets  of  all  kinds  are  used  to  force 
eating. 

Bread  and  butter  is  not  enticing  enough;  jelly,  jams, 
and  preserves  are  used  to  force  eating  beyond  the  diges- 
tive capacity,  which  results  in  disease. 

Many  mothers  think  it  unkind  in  them  to  require 
their  children  to  eat  bread  and  butter  without  a  spread 
of  sugar,  jelly,  jam,  honey,  or  something  to  make  the 
bread  and  butter  palatable. 

If  bread  without  butter  is  not  palatable,  the  child 
should  fast  until  normal  hunger  returns.  Any  sweets  are 
bad  to  eat  with  bread;  for  they  induce  overeating.  Be- 
sides, fermentation  of  the  cane  sugar  will  in  time  develop 
so  much  indigestion  that  the  alkalinity  of  the  blood  is 
reduced  and  resistance  to  disease-producing  influences 
is  lost. 

Children  abused  in  this  way  lose  all  desire  for  milk, 
and  when  it  is  taken,  it  is  to  quench  thirst  in  place  of 
water,  which  is  a  great  mistake.  Milk  is  food,  not  a 
drink,  and  it  should  never  be  used  as  a  table  beverage. 
It  should  always  be  taken  slowly,  and  eaten  as  food. 


Milk 


101 


The  custom  of  looking  upon  milk  as  something  super- 
fluous and  of  no  great  consequence  in  a  meal  is  a  serious 
dietetic  mistake. 

Do  not  forget  that  a  quart  of  whole  milk  represents 
six  hundred  and  twenty  calories  of  heat  and  fourteen 
plus  grams  of  protein.  Three  meals  of  a  quart  each 
amount  to  eighteen  hundred  and  sixty  calories  and 
forty-two  and  a  half  grams  of  protein — about  three 
hundred  and  sixty  calories  short,  which  could  be  made  up 
by  eating  two  ounces  of  raisins  with  each  meal;  and  the 
three  and  a  half  grams  of  proteid  short  could  be  made 
up  by  eating  a  saucer  of  cottage  cheese  for  the  noon 
meal,  in  addition  to  the  raisins  and  milk. 

It  is  common  to  eat  bread  and  milk.  But  simply  be- 
cause this  is  the  custom  is  no  evidence  that  it  is  not  a  diet- 
etic error,  and  should  be  respected  by  those  of  veiy  delicate 
digestions.  Fruit*  and  bread,  and  meat  and  bread,  are 
eaten  together,  but  the  custom  is  bad. 

Because  customary  errors  do  not  kill  on  the  spot, 
unreasoning  people  cannot  be  induced  to  see  their  mis- 
takes and  profit  from  the  knowledge.  These  people 
ought  to  know  that  the  first  drink  does  not  make  a 
drunkard,  nor  the  first  smoke  make  a  confirmed  smoker. 

Milk  would  be  a  much  more  valued  food  if  it  were 
eaten  oftener  without  other  food,  and  if  it  could  be  im- 
pressed upon  the  minds  of  the  people  that  it  should  not 
be  taken  in  large  amounts  until  the  system  is  prepared 
by  eating  light  meals  at  first.  Those  who  are  catarrhal 
should  fast  for  two  or  three  days;  then  take  a  pint  of 
milk  three  times  a  day  for  three  days  before  taking  full 
meals  of  milk.  Then,  when  other  food  is  to  be  eaten, 
stop  milk,  and  eat  fruit  for  the  first  day  or  two;  then 


♦Those  who  have  no  catarrhal  derangement  of  the  stom- 
ach, no  irritation  from  acid  fermentation,  may  eat  fresh,  un- 
cooked fruit  with  starchy  foods. 


102 


Food 


partake  of  other  food  lightly  for  a  few  days.  Sudden 
changes  should  not  be  made  from  heavy  eating  of  one 
kind  of  food  to  heavy  eating  of  another  kind. 

Milk  Digestion. — When  milk  enters  the  stomach,  it 
is  coagulated  by  the  hydrochloric  acid  and  the  rennin  of 
the  gastric  juice.  These  curds  are  coagula,  consisting 
of  casein  and  a  portion  of  fat.  They  vary  in  size  and 
consistency  according  to  the  amount  of  milk  taken  and 
its  state  of  dilution  when  taken.  Adding  water  to  milk 
causes  it  to  coagulate  into  a  lighter  curd — one  that  is  more 
easily  penetrated  by  the  gastric  juices.  This  curd  or 
casein  gradually  melts  under  the  influence  of  the  gastric 
secretion,  and  is  converted  into  peptone.  Peptone  is  di- 
gested albuminoid — it  is  food  brought  into  a  liquid  state 
fit  for  digestion.  It  should  be  remembered  that  milk  is 
a  fluid,  but  it  requires  digestion,  and  before  the  digestive 
process  has  been  completed,  the  milk  has  been  brought 
into  a  solid  state;  that  is  what  the  curd  is.  Many  people 
think  milk  and  soup  are  easy  to  absorb  or  digest  because 
they  are  fluid.  This  is  a  mistake.  These  foods  require  di- 
gestive power  equal  to  solid  foods.  Soup  is  not  absorbed 
as  soup — it  is  absorbed  as  peptone. 

Boiling  Increases  the  Digestibility  of  Milk. — Boiling 
increases  the  digestibility  of  milk,  the  curd  being  depos- 
ited in  a  more  flocculent  form.  It  is  said  that  if  the  milk  is 
previously  diluted  with  a  little  lime-water,  barley-water, 
or  one  of  the  aerated  waters,  such  as  Vichy,  the  curds 
formed  are  smaller  and  softer,  and  the  milk  often  ren- 
dered more  palatable. 

BUTTERMILK 


Water  88.0 

Nitrogenous  matter   4.1 

Fatty  matter   0.7 

Lactine   6.4 

Saline  matter   0.8 


Buttermilk  is  formed  during  the  manufacture  of  but- 
ter.   It  contains  a  fraction  over  four  per  cent  nitrogenous 


Buttermilk 


103 


matter,  whereas  whole  milk  averages  about  three  and  one- 
third  per  cent  of  nitrogenous  matter,  or  protein.  When 
the  cream  is  taken  away  from  milk,  it  naturally  increases 
the  amount  of  protein  to  the  pound  of  milk. 

A  very  good  way  to  make  buttermilk,  where  there  is 
no  objection  to  cream,  is  to  allow  the  whole  milk  to 
clabber;  then  beat  it  thoroughly  with  an  egg-beater.  In 
this  way  small  families  can  furnish  themselves  with  all 
the  buttermilk  they  want.  If  there  are  members  of  the 
family  who  have  stomach  derangement  and  who  cannot 
digest  cream,  the  cream  should  be  skimmed  off  the  clab- 
ber-milk before  it  is  beaten  into  a  buttermilk. 

It  is  the  fashion  nowadays  to  make  buttermilk  by 
using  the  Bulgarian  bacillus.  This  is  one  of  the  recent 
medical  foods  that  have  no  excuse  for  existing,  because 
it  has  been  proved  by  the  death  of  its  discoverer  that  it 
does  not  prolong  life. 

Milk  should  be  allowed  to  go  through  the  regular 
process  of  souring,  if  we  would  have  an  ideal  milk.  My  be- 
lief in  the  germ  theory  is  not  great  enough  to  give  it  my 
support,  even  to  the  extent  of  using  Bulgarian  germs  to 
produce  buttermilk.  It  is  absurd  to  believe  that  the  Bul- 
garian germs  are  any  better  than  the  American  germs.  If 
we  will  allow  our  milk  to  go  through  the  natural  process, 
it  generates  its  own  germs  and  its  own  acids.  Then  we 
can  either  churn  it  in  the  regular  way,  or  use  an  egg-beater 
when  only  a  small  amount  is  to  be  made.  When  a  family 
gets  used  to  manufacturing  its  own  buttermilk,  it  will 
certainly  not  depend  upon  milkmen,  nor  upon  the  market, 
where  too  often  they  get  a  poor  article. 

Combinations. — Those  who  have  catarrh,  those  who 
suffer  with  hay-fever,  should  avoid  dairy  products,  so 
far  as  milk  is  concerned;  and  in  some  cases  the  amount 
of  butter  eaten  should  be  limited.  A  very  nice  noon- 
day lunch  may  be  had  by  taking  two  to  four  ounces  of 
raisins  and  a  glass  or  two  of  buttermilk.    But  those  who 


104 


Food 


have  catarrh — those  who  catch  cold  easily — -should  not 
eat  this  kind  of  lunch.  Fresh  fruits  are  better.  The 
sweet  fruits  are  very  much  better  than  sugar;  yet  those 
who  are  predisposed  to  catching  cold,  and  those  who 
are  subject  to  catarrhal  fevers,  should  avoid  both  the 
dry,  sweet  fruits  and  milk  until  in  perfect  health,  and 
then  for  some  time  afterwards  take  of  such  foods  spar- 
ingly. 

People  frequently  ask  why  milk  is  not  good  for 
those  who  have  catarrh.  It  has  been  proved,  after  years 
of  experience,  that  milk  increases  the  catarrhal  discharge. 
Those  who  have  lung  diseases — bronchitis — and  those 
who  are  subject  to  much  expectoration,  will  find  that  the 
expectoration  increases  decidedly  under  the  influence  of  a 
milk  diet.  This  alone  is  sufficient  to  justify  tabooing  the 
use  of  milk  as  a  food  in  the  case  of  those  who  are  afflicted 
with  a  cough.  Milk  will  increase  the  discharge  of  mucu3 
from  the  bowels  when  there  is  colitis,  and  little  children 
are  inclined  to  pass  mucus.  Stools  should  be  watched, 
and,  when  mucus  appears,  the  child  should  be  fasted;  or, 
if  there  is  any  food  given,  it  should  be  nothing  more  than 
a  little  fruit  juice  until  the  discharge  is  fully  controlled. 
It  is  a  mistake  to  use  buttermilk,  or  any  milk  or  cheese, 
in  the  same  meal  with  meat. 

CURD  AND  WHEY 

Curd  is  clabber-milk  before  all  the  whey  is  removed. 
When  all  the  whey  is  taken  from  curd,  we  have  casein. 
Cheese  is  another  name  for  curd.  By  adding  a  little 
rennet  or  essence  of  pepsin  to  milk,  it  can  be  made  to 
coagulate.  This  is  called  junket.  Junket  is  sometimes 
made  for  sick  people  with  sugar  and  flavoring  added. 
Such  mixtures  should  never  be  recommended  for  sick 
people.  The  sick  should  go  without  food  until  com- 
fortable, and,  when  they  begin  to  take  food,  they  should 


Malted  Milk 


105 


not  have  such  concoctions  prescribed;  for  sugar  and 
flavoring  have  a  tendency  to  derange  digestion. 

Whey  is  the  fluid  drained  away  from  clabber-milk, 
and  it  is  used  as  a  drink  and  food  by  those  who  do 
not  take  milk  well.  As  a  food  there  is  nothing  to  it  ex- 
cept a  few  salts,  and  possibly  a  little  carbohydrate. 

MALTED  MILK 

All  artificially  prepared  foods  are  a  delusion  and  a 
snare.  If  malted  milks  are  used  with  natural  food,  the 
individual  may  thrive  because  of  the  nutritive  value  of  the 
natural  foods  eaten,  but  certainly  not  because  of  the 
artificially  prepared  milk. 

It  has  been  discovered  of  late  that  milk  contains  sub- 
stances, other  than  the  known  proteins,  fats,  carbohy- 
drates, and  salts,  which  are  important  to  growth. 

According  to  Osborne  and  Mendel,  when  protein  and 
fat  are  removed  from  milk,  the  residue  is  more  efficient 
in  nutrition  than  a  mixture  of  milk  sugar  and  salts. 

Hopkins  has  shown  the  growth  of  rats  fed  on  "arti- 
ficially purified  food,"  and  on  a  mixture  with  small 
amounts  of  pure  milk  added.  He  declares  that  the  rats 
do  not  thrive  or  grow  on  the  artificially  prepared  food, 
but  that  invariably  growth  begins  when  milk  is  added. 

Mendel  has  found  that  a  protein  which  does  not  fur- 
nish the  amido  acid  (lysin)  may  serve  as  the  exclusive 
nitrogenous  food  for  a  full-grown  animal,  but  will  not 
support  growth.  This  is  vital  knowledge  when  infant- 
feeding  is  under  consideration. 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  meat  and  bread  are 
looked  upon  as  the  most  important  and  necessary  foods 
— foods  that  carry  all  the  elements  necessary  for  the 
maintenance  of  health  and  life — when  man  is  given  these 
foods  to  the  exclusion  of  other  food,  he  does  not  thrive.  It 
requires  something  besides  this  material  to  supply  resist- 


106 


Food 


ance  and  power  to  live.  The  largest  part  of  the  total 
solids  of  the  food  is  burned,  yielding  energy.  Sherman 
says  that  during  growth  most  of  the  fat  and  carbohy- 
drate, and  the  greatest  part  of  the  protein,  are  used  to 
keep  up  the  activities.  The  elements  not  contained  in 
most  proteins — namely,  the  salts  (lime,  phosphorus, 
potash,  iron,  etc.) — are  fully  as  necessary  for  body- 
building, and  without  them  the  body  cannot  thrive. 
These  elements  are  rendered  more  or  less  inefficient  by 
cooking,  and  unless  they  are  supplied  in  fresh,  uncooked 
fruit,  vegetable  salads,  and  milk,  those  who  eat  of  such 
food  will  not  thrive. 

Upon  the  presence  in  the  body  of  salts  derived  from  the 
food,  either  directly  or  as  the  result  of  its  oxidation  in  the 
tissues,  depend  such  important  properties  and  processes  as 
the  solvent  power  and  osmotic  pressure  of  the  body  fluids, 
the  electricity  of  the  muscles,  and  the  maintenance  of  tha 
normal  neutrality  or  slight  alkalesence  of  the  blood  and  tis- 
sues.— Sherman. 

Milk  is  the  only  article  of  diet  that  contains  ail  the 
food  elements  required  by  man. 

The  ash  constituents  of  milk  include  all  of  the  so-called 
inorganic  elements  necessary  to  the  normal  nutrition  of  man 
— some  of  those  exist  in  the  milk  as  salts,  some  as  constitu- 
ents of  the  organic  matter,  some  in  both  forms. — Sherman. 

Such  diseases  as  hardening  of  the  arteries,  dropsy, 
cataract,  glaucoma,  chronic  constipation,  chronic  diar- 
rhea, and  many  others  not  necessary  to  name,  are  caused 
by  a  lack  in  the  system  brought  on,  not  so  much  from 
foods  that  fail  to  carry  the  necessary  building  elements, 
but  because  they  fail  to  supply  amido  acids. 

The  yields  of  some  of  the  more  important  complex  amido 
acids,  such  as  tryptophan,  tyrosin,  and  lysin,  are  higher  from 
the  milk  proteins  than  from  food  proteins  in  general. — Sher- 
man. 


Malted  Milk 


107 


These  items  are  all  important.  Then,  when  it  is  con- 
sidered that  milk  is  the  cheapest  food  on  the  market,  its 
value  as  a  food  can  be  understood. 

Families  that  must  live  on  twenty-five  cents  a  day, 
or  less,  can  get  the  necessary  body-building  material  from 
milk  and  bread,  or  milk  and  rice.  The  time  may  come 
v/hen  the  mixing  of  alfalfa  or  cotton-seed  meal  with  the 
ordinary  flours  of  daily  use  will  give  the  poor  man's 
bread  extra  value.  Raisins,  dates,  figs,  cheese,  nuts,  and 
milk  give  bachelors  and  light  housekeepers  a  solution  to 
their  cuisine  problems. 

Poor  people  can  get  on  with  milk  at  ten  cents  a  quart, 
and  bread  at  the  usual  market  price;  but  they  cannot  live 
and  have  health  on  bread,  meat,  coffee,  and  tobacco. 

People  generally  look  upon  milk  as  a  baby  food,  but 
not  as  a  food  to  depend  upon  for  growing  children  from 
one  year  on  through  school  life.  The  foods  thought  nec- 
essary— such  as  bread,  meat,  cake,  pudding,  pie,  and 
sweets — often  build  body  and  mental  inefficiency,  disease, 
and  early  death.  Fresh  fruits  and  salads  must  not  be  for- 
gotten. 

The  people,  encouraged  by  many  physicians,  have 
faith  in  manufactured  foods,  and  there  appears  to  be  a 
tendency  to  set  aside  milk  and  take  on  more  substantial 
foods.    This  is  commercialism— —selfishness — not  science. 

If  growing  school  children  should  be  fed  whole-wheat 
bread  and  butter,  with  fresh  fruit  or  a  salad  and  a  quart 
of  milk  each  day,  and  kept  away  from  cake,  pie,  and 
candy  between  meals,  they  would  develop  into  larger, 
stronger,  healthier  children  and  more  mentally  alert  men 
and  women  than  the  present  style  of  eating  can  possibly 
develop.  Give  children  all  the  whole-wheat  bread  and 
butter  desired,  followed  with  a  pint  of  milk,  morning  and 
evening;  fruit,  all  desired,  at  noon;  no  eating  between 
meals. 


108 


Food 


When  children  are  fed  improperly— are  fed  palate- 
ticklers  to  the  neglect  of  proper  food — they  lose  taste  for 
the  food  that  will  supply  them  with  the  needed  body- 
builders; and,  as  a  result,  we  see  sickness  among  children 
the  rule  and  not  the  exception;  a  large  mortality,  which 
is  a  disgrace  to  civilization;  the  developing  of  tuberculo- 
sis, and  many  deforming  diseases,  wholly  unnecessary. 

Tuberculosis  will  not  develop  in  properly  fed  sub- 
jects—only in  those  who  are  auto-infected  and  starved 
by  being  given  food  deficient  in  the  building  elements, 
and  especially  those  elements  of  vital  importance  that 
are  probably  autogenerated  only  in  normal  environments. 

Cause  of  Disease  of  Children. — No  doubt  tonsilitis 
and  skin  diseases — -the  so-called  contagious  diseases — 
are  consequent  on  deprivation  of  elemental  tissue-build- 
ing materials — I  mean  vitalized  building  material.  The 
laboratory-built  man  is  all  right,  except  that  he  does  not 
breathe;  his  arteries  do  not  bleed.  The  laboratory  egg 
will  not  hatch.  Laboratory  cures  are  all  right,  but  they 
do  not  cure.  Scientific  education,  with  nature  left  out,  is 
all  right,  but  it  does  not  educate.  Synthetically  created 
life  is  enough  to  put  spectacles  and  a  vision-haunted 
visage  on  the  father  of  the  laboratory  children,  but  the 
latter  will  never  squeak,  squall,  nor  stamp  their  toe-nails 
off.  They  may  have  hearts,  but  they  will  never  palpitate 
with  love — never! 

CHEESE 

Water  36.0 

Protein  31 .0 

Fats  28.5 

Salts.   4.5 


A  recent  compilation  by  Doane  and  Lawson  de- 
scribes three  hundred  and  fifty  varieties  of  cheese. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  describe  all  the  varieties  of  cheese. 
Few  readers  care  to  know  anything  about  cheese,  except 


Cheese 


109 


to  know  if  this  class  of  food  is  fit  to  eat,  and  then  to 
know  in  what  combinations  it  may  be  eaten. 

Cheese  contains  the  casein  and  fat  of  the  milk,  and 
the  whey  that  does  not  drain  out  of  the  curd.  This  remain- 
ing whey  contains  a  small  amount  of  lactalbumin  (the 
soluble  salts),  and  the  milk-sugar  or  lactic  acid  resulting 
from  its  fermentation. 

A  pound  of  cheese  represents  the  casein  and  fat  of  a 
gallon  of  average  milk,  except  that  the  soft  cheeses,  like 
Brie,  Camembert,  and  Neufchatel,  are  wetter,  and  the 
hard  pineapple  cheese  is  drier.  The  different  varieties 
of  whole-milk  cheese  average  in  composition  about  one- 
third  water,  one-third  fat,  and  one-fourth  protein. 

Cheese  sells  at  about  the  same  price  as  steak;  yet  it 
contains  more  protein  and  fat.  Cheese  does  not  represent 
whole  milk;  it  does,  however,  carry  a  good  supply  of  the 
salts. 

Many  declare  that  cheese  is  hard  for  them  to  digest, 
but  this  is  because  they  do  not  know  how  to  eat  it.  Those 
who  declare  that  cheese  disagrees  with  them  might  say  the 
same  of  steak,  eggs,  fish,  or  any  other  standard  food,  if 
they  should  eat  these  foods  in  the  same  way;  namely, 
at  the  end  of  a  meal  as  a  dessert.  Surely,  if  a  steak,  an 
egg,  or  a  helping  of  fish  were  served  with  a  piece  of  pie 
at  the  end  of  a  full  dinner,  there  would  be  more  people 
complaining  of  indigestion  from  this  cause  than  of  the 
after-effects  of  cheese  eaten  under  similar  circumstances. 

Combinations. — Cheese  should  be  recognized  as  a 
standard  protein-bearing  food,  and  should  be  eaten  as 
meat,  eggs,  fish,  dry  beans,  and  other  tissue-building 
foods. 

Meat,  non-starchy  vegetables,  and  a  combination 
salad  is  recognized  as  a  "Tilden  dinner"  by  the  followers 
of  my  diet  ideas.  Cheese,  eggs,  fish,  dry  beans  or  peas 
may  each  do  substitute  work  for  meat,  with  a  similar 
accompaniment  of  cooked  and  raw  vegetables. 


110 


Food 


Cheese  should  be  thoroughly  masticated,  so  as  to 
render  it  easier  of  digestion.  The  nature  of  cheese  is  an 
infiltration  of  casein  with  cream  or  fat,  and  it  should  be 
broken  down  thoroughly  by  the  teeth,  which  allows  the 
digestive  juices  to  come  in  contact  with  more  of  the  mass 
eaten.    It  should  be  eaten  with  either  a  salad  or  fruit. 

The  eating  of  bread  and  crackers  with  cheese  is  as 
great  a  dietetic  error  as  eating  meat  and  bread,  or  meat 
and  potatoes,  together.  The  least  harmful  of  starch-  and 
meat-mixing  is  the  eating  of  meat  and  potatoes  at  the 
same  meal.  When  not  repeated  too  often,  people  in 
good  health  may  eat  meat,  or  fish,  and  potatoes  without 
doing  any  appreciable  harm.  Well  people  may  eat  cheese 
and  crackers,  or  cheese  and  bread,  and  feel  no  incon- 
venience; but  comfort  and  the  best  of  health  are  not  en- 
couraged by  such  eating. 

Cheese  is  constipating  to  many;  hence  it  is  best  to 
eat  with  this  result  in  mind,  if  possible,  and  be  careful 
not  to  allow  the  bowels  to  become  too  much  deranged 
before  either  foregoing  the  use  of  the  cheese,  or  eating 
laxative  foods.  Cheese,  sweet  fruits— such  as  raisins, 
dates,  and  figs — and  nuts  may  be  eaten  together.  Cheese 
may  take  the  place  of  meat  in  a  dinner  where  cooked, 
non-starchy  vegetables  and  salad  are  eaten. 

Cottage  cheese,  such  as  thrifty  housewives  make,  may 
be  eaten  with  the  sweet,  dry  fruits  and  a  glass  or  two  of 
milk,  one-fourth  cream;  or  with  preserved  figs  or  other 
preserved  fruits,  cream,  and  a  glass  or  two  of  buttermilk. 
During  the  hot  weather,  cheese  should  be  eaten  with  fresh 
fruits  and  whole  milk. 

EGGS 

Eggs,  like  milk,  form  a  complete  food;  that  is,  they 
contain  more  or  less  of  each  of  the  fundamental  food  ele- 
ments necessary  to  build  the  body  and  repair  waste. 


Eggs  1 1 1 

Eggs  and  milk  are  the  only  complete  food  products  found 
in  the  animal  kingdom. 

The  eggs  of  the  hen  are  more  largely  eaten  as  a  food 
than  are  the  eggs  of  any  of  the  other  domestic  fowls. 

AVERAGE  COMPOSITION  OF  HEN  EGGS 


Refuse 

Per 
Cent 

Water 

Per 
Cent 

Protein 
Per 
Cent 

Fat 
Per 
Cent 

Carbo- 
hydrates 
Per 
Cent 

Ash 
Per 
Cent 

Fuel 
Value 
per  lb. 
Calor. 

Whole  egg  as  purchased  . . 
Whole  egg,  edible  por- 
tion  

11.2 

65.5 

73.7 

86.2 
49.5 

73.3 

11.9 

13.4 
12.3 
15.7 

13.2 

9.30 

10.50 
0.20 
33.30 

12.00 

0.9 

1.0 
0.6 
1.1 

0.8 

635 

720 
250 
1705 

765 

White  

Yolk  

Whole  egg  boiled,  edible 
portion  

From  this  table  it  may  be  seen  that  the  egg  contains 
mainly  protein  and  fats,  in  addition  to  water  and  min- 
eral matter.  The  white  and  the  yolk  differ  in  composi- 
tion. The  white  contains  less  protein  than  the  yolk,  and 
very  little  fat  and  ash. 

The  egg  contains  about  seventy-five  per  cent  (three- 
fourths)  water;  twelve  per  cent  (one-eighth)  fat.  The 
yolk  constitutes  a  little  over  one-third  and  the  white  a 
little  under  two-thirds.  The  white  is  about  seven-eighths 
water  and  one-eighth  protein,  with  a  small  amount  of 
potassium  salts.  The  yolk  is  about  one-half  water,  one- 
third  fat,  and  one-sixth  protein,  with  more  ash  than  the 
white,  including  relatively  larger  amounts  of  phosphorus, 
calcium,  and  iron  in  organic  combination.  The  yolk  is 
a  much  more  concentrated  food  than  the  white,  contain- 
ing about  seven  times  as  much  energy,  as  well  as  a  larger 
amount  of  protein  and  salts. 

Preserving  Eggs. — There  are  several  ways  of  pre- 
serving eggs;  namely,  cold  storage,  freezing  and  then 
cold  storage,  and  drying. 


112 


Food 


The  influence  of  age  on  cold-storage  eggs  is  to  cause 
the  albumin  to  cling  to  the  shell  membranes;  the  air- 
chamber  is  much  enlarged,  and  small  rosette  crystals 
form  in  the  albumin,  and  larger  rosette  crystals  in  the 
yolk. 

There  is  an  element  in  eggs  supposed  to  cause 
growth.  At  one  time  enthusiasm  ran  high;  for  it  was 
thought  that  this  element  could  be  used  to  compel  abnor- 
mal growth.  But,  like  many  other  single  ideas  regarding 
physiology,  pathology,  and  curing,  this  theory  lacks  the 
sanction  of  biological  law.  Such  processes  as  growth 
are  made  up  of  many  elements,  psychic  and  physical. 
Nothing  can  ever  come  from  experiments  that  look  to 
the  artificial  generation  of  life;  for  there  will  always  be 
a  difference — a  chasm — between  albumin  made  in  the 
laboratory  and  albumin  evolved  by  nature.  The  chemist 
may  imitate  lecithin  (the  element  supposed  to  cause 
growth),  or  isolate  it  from  the  other  elements  contained 
in  the  egg,  but  it  will  be  lacking  a  subtle  element  that 
chemical  laboratories  will  never  furnish.  Life  is  a  form 
cf  energy  plus,  and  the  plus  is  vital  continuity,  if  I  may 
be  permitted  to  coin  a  term  for  an  intangible  force  that 
presides  over  the  universe  and  causes  the  distinction 
between  animate  and  inanimate.  A  car  is  run  by  an  intan- 
gible energy  passing  from  the  generator  at  the  power- 
house over  wires,  but  this  power  is  indeed  gross  com- 
pared with  the  subtle  energy  at  work  in  the  hen,  causing 
her  body  to  produce  an  egg  with  enough  of  this  energy 
stored  in  it  to  produce  a  chick  strong  enough  to  stand 
on  its  feet  and  eat  of  the  food  common  to  its  mother. 

Phosphorus  is  needed  in  building  brain,  but  man's 
body  cannot  supply  his  needs  from  the  gross  inanimate 
products  of  nature;  he  must  get  it  from  the  phosphorized 
oil  in  the  egg,  or  from  other  animal  or  vegetable  foods 
compounded  in  nature's  laboratory. 


Eggs 


113 


It  is  absurd  to  give  those  needing  iron  the  metallic, 
inanimate  substance  of  our  mines,  or  that  which  is  trans- 
formed by  the  chemist  into  a  form  said  to  be  assimilable, 
but  which  cannot  be  utilized  by  the  cells  of  the  body  in 
their  endeavor  to  manufacture  their  successors. 

The  lecithin  molecule  contains  an  atom  each  of  phos- 
phorus and  nitrogen,  which  is  described  by  Hoppe- 
Seyler  as  having  the  composition  of  C44H00NPO9,  plus 
that  subtle  element  which  disappears  in  the  analyst's 
hands. 

In  the  egg  and  the  human  ovum  the  silken  thread  of 
vital  continuity  is  so  delicate  that  it  can  be  destroyed  very 
easily,  and  it  cannot  be  restored.  The  physical  agencies 
favoring  its  return  must  go  back  to  nature,  and  go  through 
the  refining  processes  necessary  again  to  invite  its  re- 
turn. 

When  an  egg  is  beaten;  when  vegetables  and  meat, 
in  either  the  cooked  or  the  uncooked  state,  are  used  as 
food,  none  of  that  element  that  individualizes  can  be  taken 
in  as  food.  Food  may  be  of  a  nature  to  build  a  body  that 
will  attract  more  and  more  of  this  power,  and  it  may  be 
cf  such  a  character  as  to  allow  more  and  more  of  it  to 
slip  away — dissipate.  It  has  been  referred  to  in  our 
writings  about  resistance  and  enervation.  It  matters  not 
by  what  name  we  call  it — this  subtle  element  can  be  at- 
tracted by  making  a  favorable  environment  for  its  mani- 
festation, and  it  can  be  driven  away  when  the  environ- 
ment is  unfavorable. 

Eggs  are  a  common  and  popular  food,  and  take  the 
place  of  meat  with  many  people.  In  potentiality  the  egg 
represents  all  the  tissues  of  the  body.  As  the  immortal 
Kings! ey  puts  it:  "Egg  is  milk  and  hair  and  blood  and 
bone."  This  is  said  of  milk;  but,  after  the  embryonic 
life  of  the  chick,  and  the  babyhood  of  the  child  or  young 
animal,  these  supposed  ideal  foods  do  not  satisfy  the  de- 


114 


Food 


mands  of  the  young  animals — much  less  the  demands 
of  matured  life. 

The  egg  cannot  be  so  perfect  a  food  for  the  babe  as  for 
the  chick;  for  the  latter  utilizes  more  or  less  of  the  egg-shell, 
while  the  babe  discards  it  entirely.  If,  however,  the  lime  be 
substitued,  the  egg  would  be  an  ideal  food  for  the  babe ; 
for  the  whole  egg,  shell  and  all,  is  suited  to  the  develop- 
ing of  a  young  animal  that  puts  forth  muscular  en- 
ergy. After  life  begins  in  earnest,  carbohydrate  foods 
are  necessary  for  supplying  material  for  heat  and  activity. 
The  fetuses  of  the  chicken  and  those  of  animals,  includ- 
ing man,  are  kept  warm,  and  do  not  require  force  or  heat- 
ing foods;  but  after  they  begin  an  independent  life  they 
need  carbohydrates.  The  chick  takes  force  food  as  soon 
as  hatched. 

Some  authors  declare  that  the  lime  of  the  shell  is  not 
utilized  by  the  chick,  but,  as  nature  on  every  hand  proves 
to  us  that  there  can  be  no  effect  without  a  cause,  and 
vice  versa — that  function  precedes  structure — we  cannot 
believe  that  such  a  friable  structure  as  an  egg-shell  would 
be  built  if  protection  were  all  that  was  required  of  it. 
A  tough  membrane,  such  as  we  see  in  some  animals  not 
requiring  the  substantial  framework  of  the  chicken,  would 
answer  every  purpose.  The  laboratory  experts  would 
do  well  to  start  with  a  natural  fact,  truth,  or  verity,  if 
they  would  build  theories  that  will  work  out  in  experience. 

The  white  of  the  egg  is  pure  albumin,  and  consists  of 
a  solution  of  proteid  shut  up  in  the  interior  of  millions  of 
cells.  All  animal  bodies  are  made  up  of  cells,  and  the 
egg  is  an  undeveloped  chick.  These  cell-walls  are  broken 
when  the  egg  is  beaten,  and  this  allows  the  proteid  to 
escape. 

Egg  albumin  is  said  to  consist  of  a  mixture  of  dif- 
ferent proteids,  indicating  that  the  egg,  from  a  chemical 
standpoint,  is  a  highly  complex  substance;  and,  like  all 
complex  foods,  it  is  very  unstable;  it  takes  on  change 


Eggs 


115 


very  easily — decomposes  in  the  stomach  and  bowels 
readily. 

The  yolk  is  fully  as  complex  as  the  white;  and,  as  a 
consequence,  the  egg  is  not  so  innocent  a  food  as  many 
suppose.  It  is  generally  recognized  as  being  easy  of 
digestion;  and,  I  presume,  in  those  who  have  perfect 
health  and  digestion,  this  is  true;  but  the  observing  physi- 
cian will  find  many  people  who  are  made  from  slightly 
uncomfortable  to  miserable  by  its  use.  This  is  espe- 
cially true  of  those  who  have  slow  digestion ;  for  they  ex- 
perience discomfort  from  the  use  of  eggs  cooked  in  any 
form. 

Eggs  are  especially  bad  for  those  who  have  ulcera- 
tion or  dilation  of  the  stomach.  People  with  delicate 
digestion  should  not  eat  any  except  fresh  eggs — eggs  not 
more  than  one  day  old.  Indeed,  this  rule  should  be  fol- 
lowed out  on  all  foods;  for  stale  fruit  and  vegetables, 
when  eaten,  are  very  much  inclined  to  cause  fermentation. 
A  lack  of  care  in  this  matter  is  often  the  cause  of  con- 
tinued ill-health. 

Siebel  says  that  a  newly  laid  egg,  placed  in  a  vessel 
of  brine  made  of  two  ounces  of  salt  and  one  pint  of 
water,  will  sink  to  the  bottom;  an  egg  one  day  old  will 
sink  below  the  surface,  but  not  to  the  bottom;  while 
one  three  days  old  will  swim  about  just  immersed  in  the 
liquid.  If  more  than  three  days  old,  the  egg  will  float 
on  the  surface,  the  amount  of  shell  exposed  increasing 
with  age.  If  the  egg  is  two  weeks  old,  only  a  little  of 
the  shell  will  dip  in  the  liquid. 

Digestibility  of  Eggs. — Raw  eggs  remain  in  the 
stomach  longer  than  soft-boiled  eggs,  according  to  Sher- 
man. He  says  this  is  due  to  the  fact  that  they  are  so 
bland  that  they  excite  neither  the  motor  nor  the  secretory 
function.  This  is  not  a  very  plausible  reason,  and  one 
which,  if  followed  to  its  legitimate  end,  would  imply  that 
food,  to  be  digestible,  should  irritate  the  stomach;  and, 


116 


Food 


of  course,  the  more  it  irritates,  the  easier  it  will  be  of  di- 
gestion! 

It  appears  more  reasonable  to  assume  that  a  soft- 
boiled  egg  is  made  easier  of  digestion  than  a  raw  egg 
because  the  heat  causes  a  bursting  of  the  capsules  of  the 
cells,  allowing  the  contents  to  be  acted  upon  by  the 
gastric  secretions  at  once.  If  this  be  true,  then  raw  eggs 
should  be  thoroughly  beaten  before  being  eaten;  and, 
when  there  are  no  countermanding  objections,  a  little 
lemon  juice  may  be  added  to  cover  the  raw  taste  and 
aid  digestion  by  furnishing  acid. 

Eggs  act  as  a  poison  on  some  people.  A  small 
amount  of  egg  creates  violent  symptoms,  such  as  rash 
on  the  skin,  vomiting,  syncope,  and  coma.  Sherman 
says:  '* Apparently  their  digestive  juices  act  on  egg  in 
such  a  way  as  to  produce  poisons  from  it.**  But,  inas- 
much as  albumin  is  a  rank  poison  when  it  gains  entrance 
into  the  blood,  it  is  possible  that  in  those  people  who 
suffer  from  the  eating  of  eggs  there  may  be  some  way 
for  albumin  to  gain  entrance  into  the  circulation  in  other 
than  the  regular  way;  for  instance,  through  stomach  or 
intestinal  ulceration,  or  a  defect  in  the  lacteal  circula- 
tion of  chymification.  Eggs  are  a  poison  to  those  who 
suffer  from  that  form  of  stomach  derangement  marked 
by  a  heavily  coated  tongue. 

Authors  say  that  raw  eggs  are  best  taken  directly 
from  the  shell.  Obviously  this  is  a  mistake,  if  the  cell 
capsule  resists  the  action  of  the  gastric  secretions,  as  sug- 
gested above. 

Raw  eggs  are  recommended  in  combination  with 
milk,  broths,  or  coffee.  In  diseases  accompanied  by  loss 
of  flesh  and  strength,  large  quantities  of  raw  eggs — as 
many  as  twenty-four — are  recommended  in  twenty-four 
hours.  Patients  who  can  take  care  of  such  quantities  of 
eggs,  or  a  like  proportion  of  other  foods,  are  not  in  a 
very  sick  state.     Those  who  are  seriously  ill  will  grow 


Eggs 


117 


worse  and  die  under  such  dieting!  "Stuffing"  is  a  better 
term  for  such  feeding. 

Some  of  the  best  authors  on  dietetics  recommend  the 
mixing  of  sherry  or  other  wines  or  alcoholics  with  raw 
eggs  for  the  sick.  Most  patients  would  be  made  worse 
by  such  treatment,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  people  in 
health  would  stay  well  long  if  given  such  diet.  Alcoholics 
of  all  kinds  have  a  detrimental  effect  on  the  stomach,  in 
either  health  or  disease.  Nothing  in  the  drink  line  is  more 
disease-producing  than  egg-nog.  Cornaro  will  probably 
be  pointed  out  in  refutation  of  my  opposition  to  alco- 
holics— but  truth  remains  the  same. 

Penzoldt  experimented  and  found  that  two  eggs 
lightly  boiled  had  left  the  stomach  in  one  and  three- 
fourths  hours;  given  raw,  they  left  the  stomach  in  two 
and  one-fourth  hours;  when  poached,  and  butter  added, 
they  left  the  stomach  in  two  and  one-half  hours;  hard- 
boiled,  they  left  the  stomach  in  three  hours;  as  an  omelet, 
they  left  the  stomach  in  three  hours. 

Hard-boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped  or  ground,  can  be 
digested  in  a  normal  stomach  as  quickly  as  soft-boiled 
eggs.  Much,  however,  depends  on  the  cooking.  The 
term  "hard-boiled  eggs"  is  bad,  as  long  as  it  means  that 
eggs  are  to  be  boiled.  Albumin — either  in  meat,  eggs,  or 
vegetables — should  not  be  boiled. 

Eggs  being  albumin,  they  should  not  be  cooked  in 
boiling  water.  Eggs  are  best  cooked  in  the  shell.  (See 
"Cooking.") 

There  are  two  main  schools  of  dietitians;  namely, 
those  who  are  known  as  vegetarians  and  those  who  are 
not — those  who  believe  in  all  foods,  vegetable  and  ani- 
mal. The  latter  school  is  divided  into  those  who  believe 
in  a  large  intake  of  proteid,  and  those  who  believe  in  a 
low  intake.  Voit  heads  the  first  class,  advocating  one 
hundred  and  eighteen  grams  of  proteid.     Chittenden  is 


118 


Food 


at  the  head  of  the  other  class,  recommending  sixty  grams 
of  proteid,  and  even  as  low  as  thirty-five  to  forty  gram3. 

Those  who  belong  to  the  one-hundred-and-twenty- 
grams-of-proteid  school  recommend  twenty  eggs  a  day. 
The  low-proteid  school  advocates  from  six  to  ten.  From 
the  standpoint  of  the  author  of  this  book,  even  the  low 
school  is  much  too  high. 

Professor  Chittenden  came  into  his  knowledge  of  the 
benefit  of  a  low-proteid  diet  by  experimenting  on  him- 
self. He  had  persistent  rheumatism  of  the  knee-joint, 
which  he  got  rid  of,  along  with  "sick  headaches"  and 
bilious  attacks,  by  cutting  down  his  eating. 

Graham,  of  the  "Graham  system,"  declared  that  he 
got  rid  of  headaches,  cold,  constipation,  and  rheumatism 
by  cutting  down  his  food  supply  so  low  that  his  neigh- 
bors declared  he  would  starve  to  death. 

The  advocates  of  a  high  proteid  intake  believe  that 
it  is  well  to  take  more  than  necessary — more  than  the 
system  requires  for  building  and  repair — so  as  to  have 
a  reserve  on  hand  in  case  a  sickness  should  come  requir- 
ing a  reserve.  The  truth  is,  if  there  is  a  reserve,  a  time 
will  come  when  it  will  have  to  be  got  rid  of — sickness 
will  come  because  of  it,  not  from  a  lack  of  it.  When 
nutrition  is  crowded  by  an  oversupply  of  proteid,  catarrh, 
plethora,  high  blood  pressure,  and  systemic  infection  from 
absorption  of  decomposition  in  the  bowels  are  present; 
and  developing  from  this  systemic  infection  are  such  dis- 
eases as  appendicitis,  fibroid  tumor,  goiter,  hard  arteries, 
cancer,  etc. 

Combinations. — To  prevent  the  developing  of  such 
a  train  of  symptoms,  not  more  than  four  eggs  a  day,  or 
from  four  to  six  ounces  of  meat,  should  be  eaten  with 
other  foods.  With  meat  or  eggs,  cooked  and  raw  vege- 
tables are  to  be  eaten  for  dinner;  then  one  meal  a  day 
of  bread  and  butter.  The  third  meal  should  be  fruit  and 
milk  or  cheese.    The  starch  for  children  should  be  whole- 


Meat 


119 


wheat  bread,  oatmeal,  corn  bread,  or  any  of  the  breakfast 
foods;  for  grown  people,  white  bread  or  a  mixture  of 
whole-wheat  one-third  and  white  two-thirds.  This  is  an 
outline  of  a  dietary  that  will  furnish  enough  nitrogen  for 
tissue-building,  and  enough  heat  to  keep  up  the  warmth 
of  the  body  as  well  as  force  of  energy. 

Overeating  taxes  the  body  to  get  rid  of  the  surplus; 
and  it  is  this  overtaxing,  and  the  consequent  full-habit, 
that  bring  on  disease. 

One  egg  is  equivalent  to  four  ounces  of  milk,  and 
one  and  one-half  ounces  of  fat  meat. 

Those  who  eat  eggs  for  breakfast  and  experience  a 
heavy,  lazy  feeling  at  ten  to  eleven  o'clock  in  the  fore- 
noon should  stop  their  use,  or  stop  the  use  of  meat  at 
the  evening  dinner,  and  use  the  eggs  for  dinner  rather 
than  for  breakfast. 

MEAT  AND  MEAT  PREPARATION 

Meat  forms  the  flesh  or  muscular  parts  of  the  body. 
It  is  one  of  the  most  important  articles  of  food,  and  is 
the  chief  source  of  man's  protein  supply.  It  also  contains 
water  and  fat,  the  proportion  varying  with  different 
meats.  Meat  may  be  eaten  raw  or  cooked.  Raw  meat, 
when  well  ground,  is  very  easily  digested. 

Meat  should  not  be  eaten  oftener  than  once  a  day 
as  an  established  eating  habit.  It  furnishes  proteid,  and 
the  proteid  is  used  for  tissue-building.  Therefore,  unless 
there  is  much  exercise  to  cause  great  need  of  renewal  of 
tissue,  the  demand  for  proteid  will  not  be  so  great.  Many 
people  do  eat  meat  three  times  a  day,  but  they  come  to 
grief  if  they  eat  much  starch  or  carbohydrates  with  it. 
Much  meat-eating  must  be  accompanied  with  outdoor 
life  and  exercise.  Men  who  have  lived  the  life  of  hunters 
and  trappers  have  told  rne  that  they  had  eaten  large 
quantities  of  meat — in  fact,  lived  on  meat  and  coffee—— 
and  maintained  excellent  health. 


120 


Food 


I  have  not  been  able  to  follow  up  the  lives  of  those 
who  have  boasted  of  living  exclusively  on  meat,  long 
enough  to  know  what  the  outcome  has  been. 

It  is  declared  that  the  most  intelligent  and  enterpris- 
ing people  are  those  who  eat  meat. 

Truth  on  the  subject  of  diet,  as  well  as  on  many  other 
subjects,  is  most  elusive,  and  exceedingly  difficult  to  pro- 
cure unalloyed.  If  someone  has  lived  largely  on  meat 
for  a  while,  or  circumstances  have  made  it  necessary  to 
eat  pork  three  times  a  day  for  a  few  years,  he  becomes 
an  enthusiast,  and  declares  that  the  only  way  to  have 
good  health  is  to  eat  plenty  of  meat,  especially  pork; 
that  he  has  eaten  nothing  else  during  his  lifetime. 

The  fanatical  temperament  is  required  to  believe  that 
a  monodiet  or  omnivorous  eating  is  correct.  It  is  the 
same  temperament  that  inspires  the  man  who  willingly 
dies  for  his  king,  or  who  believes  in  a  unitary  cause  for 
diseases,  or  that  natural  law  will  be  set  aside  in  answer 
to  prayer. 

Hard  work  or  plenty  of  exercise  is  a  very  good  anti- 
dote to  food  poisoning;  but,  in  spite  of  this  fact,  we  are 
reminded  all  the  time  that  athletes  and  farmers  are  not 
long-lived.  The  athlete  goes  down  very  rapidly  after  he 
stops  training.  Food  poisoning  often  manifests  as  a  cold. 
Exercise  in  the  open  air,  and  fasting,  will  cure  quickly. 
The  farmer  should  be  the  longest-lived  of  all  people,  but 
he  is  not.  The  rule  is  that  he  dies  early  because  of  over- 
eating. He  usually  eats  more  of  meat  and  bread  than 
of  other  varieties  of  food. 

Labor-saving  machinery  has  prolonged  the  farmer's 
life  somewhat.  He  does  not  work  so  hard;  but  his  eating 
is  too  largely  of  meat,  bread,  potatoes,  and  coffee.  In- 
stead cf  preparing  a  perpetual  garden  for  himself  and 
his  family,  he  manages  to  have  a  fairly  good  supply  of 
vegetables  for  from  two  to  four  weeks  each  summer;  but 
for  the  remaining  eleven  months  in  each  year  his  cattle 


Meat 


121 


and  horses  are  better  fed,  for  they  are  favored  with  more 
grass — green  food — than  he  and  his  family  receive. 

When  the  farmer's  horse  or  the  city  horse  has  been 
stall-fed  for  two  or  three  years — given  plenty  of  oats, 
corn,  and  hay — what  becomes  of  him?  He  is  fat  and 
sleek,  and  said  to  be  in  excellent  condition.  But  if  he  is 
examined  carefully,  an  expert  will  find  a  thickening  and 
purring  of  the  mucous  membranes;  the  cellular  tissue  will 
be  found  more  or  less  infiltrated;  the  tongue  will  be  thick 
or  puffed,  and  whiter  than  it  should  be;  the  gums  are 
puffed — sometimes  so  thick  that  they  reach  to  the  level 
of  the  teeth,  and  occasionally  lap  over  the  teeth,  making 
mastication  painful,  if  not  impossible.  If  the  feet  are 
examined,  the  hoofs  will  be  found  flinty  and  hard,  and 
becoming  distorted.  Then  it  is  that  the  blacksmith  and 
veterinary  begin  to  talk  of  corns,  hoof-bound,  dry  hoof, 
etc. ;  and  the  blemishes  on  the  legs  are  called  puffs, 
splints,  ringbones,  spavin,  and  other  names  fully  as  mean- 
ingless, so  far  as  cause  is  concerned.  If  the  urine  is  ex- 
amined, the  specific  gravity  will  be  found  rather  light  and 
the  reaction  too  acid. 

What  is  the  matter  with  the  horse?  His  system  is 
heavily  charged  with  the  waste  products  of  digestion,  and 
he  is  aging  rapidly.  His  so-called  diseases  are  simply  a 
rapid  process  of  aging.  The  mineral  elements  in  his  food 
are  being  deposited  throughout  his  body.  If  he  could 
be  induced  to  take  stimulants — -such  as  alcohol  or  condi- 
ments; salt,  pepper,  spices,  pickles,  chile;  and  take  our 
table  beverages — coffee  and  tea — he  could  be  made  to 
build  gall-stone,  stone  in  the  kidney,  stone  in  the  bladder, 
arteriosclerosis,  progressive  paralysis,  and  other  old-age 
diseases,  equal  to  man. 

What  is  needed  for  a  cure?  Turn  the  horse  out  on 
pasture,  and  nature  will  do  the  rest.  Within  one  week 
after  eating  grass,  the  urine  will  be  found  loaded  with 


122 


Food 


mineral,  and  will  continue  to  be  until  the  body  is  cleared 

of  its  deposits. 

The  human  body  accumulates  mineral  the  same  way, 
resulting  in:  corns,  bunions;  puffed  ankles,  swollen  joints; 
stone  deposits,  anchylosis,  all  kinds  of  rheumatism,  hard- 
ening of  arteries;  tumors,  cancers;  kidney,  heart,  and 
lung  diseases;  crime  and  insanity.  This  is  the  fearful 
price  paid  for  eating,  drinking,  and  thinking  wrong.  Man 
cannot  eat  grass  as  the  horse  does,  but  he  can  eat  fruit 
and  vegetable  salads;  and  these  foods  eliminate  equal  to 
grass. 

If  stone  in  the  gall-bladder  is  caused  by  germs,  of 
course  the  proper  thing  to  do  is  to  cut  out  the  stones,  drain 
the  gall-bladder,  and  use  remedies  for  germs — ger- 
micides. But  if  the  disease  is  caused  by  errors  in  diet, 
there  is  but  one  cure,  and  that  is  to  correct  the  eating. 
Disintegration  of  stone  will  then  take  place,  and  it  will 
pass  out  through  the  natural  channels. 

It  is  said  by  vegetarians  that  rheumatism  is  caused  by 
eating  meat.  The  truth  is  that  few  people  eat  exclusively 
cf  meat.  It  is  doubtful  if  any  do.  All  meat-eaters  take 
more  or  less  bread,  potatoes,  and  other  vegetables.  To 
say  that  meat  causes  rheumatism  when  it  is  eaten  with 
bread  and  potatoes  is  a  slack  way  of  reasoning,  to  say  the 
least.  To  say  that  starchy  foods  eaten  with  meat  cause 
rheumatism  is  slack  reasoning.  Experience  leads  one  to 
believe  that  meat  and  bread  eaten  together  are  more 
capable  of  causing  rheumatism  than  either  eaten  without 
the  other. 

Carbohydrates  build  rheumatism  of  the  depositing 
kind.  Arthritis  and  bursitis  are  deforming  in  their  na- 
ture. Both  belong  to  the  nervous  temperament,  and 
develop  in  those  predisposed  to  the  disease  when  resist- 
ance is  broken  down.  The  rule  is  that  those  of  the  nerv- 
ous temperament  are  more  inclined  to  eat  carbohydrate 
foods,  such  as  bread  and  sweets,  than  animal  foods.  They 


Meat 


123 


also  live  so  intensely  that  they  become  enervated.  Then, 
if  inclined  to  rheumatism,  they  develop  the  arthritic  or 
bursal  varieties,  which  are  seldom  cured;  for  much  time, 
patience,  and  perseverance  are  necessary;  nutrition  must 
be  brought  back  to  the  normal,  which  takes  much  time 
and  personal  sacrifice.  Drugs  fail  even  to  give  relief  to 
these  sufferers,  and  it  is  a  crime  to  give  them;  for  they 
further  depress  and  enervate,  and  indirectly  add  to  the 
disease.  These  diseases  are  made  worse  by  forced  in- 
activity and  overeating,  rather  than  by  the  kind  of  food. 
However,  it  could  be  proved  without  much  effort  that 
animal  foods  cause  less  trouble  than  carbohydrates  where 
they  are  taken  in  excess. 

Inflammatory  rheumatism  is  caused  by  the  excessive 
intake  of  protein— meats  of  all  kinds,  eggs,  milk,  cheese, 
and  food  made  from  whole  grain,  beans,  peas,  and  other 
proteid-carrying  vegetables — made  active  by  sugar — 
artificial  sweets. 

Excessive  cold  or  heat,  overwork,  or  anything  that 
lowers  resistance,  adds  the  last  straw  to  force  an  attack 
of  rheumatism.  Why  stop  with  saying  that,  when  the 
system  is  overcharged  with  the  purin*  bodies  from  the  ex- 
cessive intake  of  meat  and  other  nitrogen-carrying  foods, 
the  patient  will  have  rheumatism?  Indeed,  to  do  so  stops 
short  of  the  whole  truth;  for  pneumonia,  appendicitis, 
typhoid  fever,  and  other  fevers  and  inflammations  are 
brought  on  from  this  cause.  Any  disease  to  which  there 
is  a  predisposition,  or  which  the  local  environment  favors, 
will  determine  the  type.  Any  inflammation  or  fever  finds 
in  this  constitutional  state  a  favorable  culture-soil. 

It  takes  inflammatory  rheumatism  six  weeks  to  burn 
out  its  cause;  a  typhoid  fever,  from  six  to  ten  weeks;  a 


*The  chemistry  of  purin  is  C,H42T4.  Add  03  to  the  formula, 
and  we  have  uric  acid.  The  purin  may  "be  taken  in  with  food, 
and  it  may  be  developed  in  the  process  of  digesting  protein. 


124 


Food 


pneumonia,  from  ten  to  twenty  days;  an  appendicitis, 
from  two  to  four  weeks,  if  not  operated  upon — unless  it 

becomes  chronic. 

The  time  given  for  these  diseases  to  burn  up  the 
purins  is  according  to  authority,  but  not  according  to  my 
opinion,  if  food  is  kept  away  from  the  patient  suffering 
with  these  diseases,  the  fever  soon  subsides,  and  then 
elimination  is  hastened  by  this  system,  so  that  inflam- 
matory rheumatism  will  subside  in  two  or  three  weeks, 
or  less  time;  typhoid  fever,  in  from  seven  to  fourteen 
days;  appendicitis,  in  a  week,  if  there  is  not  suppuration; 
if  pus  forms,  the  patient  becomes  comfortable  in  three 
days,  and  then  must  wait  until  the  abscess  ruptures  into 
the  gut,  which  it  will  do  in  from  ten  days  to  four  weeks 
— usually  in  one  to  three  weeks;  then,  if  the  patient  is 
fed  properly  for  a  week,  there  will  be  no  sequels. 

When  the  etiology  of  disease  is  understood,  treat- 
ment is  made  easy  and  fatalities  are  made  the  lowest 
possible. 

Reference  has  been  made  to  the  amount  of  protein 
food  required  to  supply  waste,  which  is  much  less  than 
the  amount  consumed  by  most  people  who  think  they  are 
moderate  eaters. 

Chittenden  declares  that  a  little  over  two  ounces — 
sixty  to  seventy  grams— of  protein  is  enough.  Meat-eaters 
would  think  that  amount  a  starvation  diet.  Go  among 
the  people — those  who  believe  in  good  living — and  we 
find  that  a  pound  of  meat  is  not  thought  to  be  too  much 
for  one  meal.  Most  doctors  will  prescribe  eight  to  six- 
teen times  as  much  protein  as  Professor  Chittenden  finds 
necessary.  Tuberculous  patients  especially  are  urged  to 
eat  large  quantities  of  eggs,  meat,  and  milk.  Between 
protein-poisoning  and  fear  (the  chronic  mental  state  of 
those  who  have  lung  and  heart  diseases),  people  are  kept 
eick,  and  ultimately  die. 


Meat 


125 


The  present  up-to-date  dietetic  scheme  for  treating 
tuberculous  patients  is  to  stuff  them.  "By  all  means 
keep  up  the  weight!'*  Between  stuffing  and  inactivity, 
some  of  the  unfortunates  are  kept  alive  for  several  years 
— especially  those  who  can  afford  to  live  the  life  and 
pay  for  the  medical  jollying.  Those  who  cannot,  pass 
on.  Yes,  kept  alive!  They  are  scarcely  permitted  to 
move,  and  they  are  never  allowed  to  go  back  to  work  or 
business. 

Tuberculosis  is  first,  last,  and  all  the  time  a  disease 
developed  by  chronic  autotoxemia.  Excessive  eating  of 
albuminoid — proteid-bearing — and  carbohydrate  foods 
develops  pulmonary  adenitis,  which  favors  the  develop- 
ment of  tuberculosis  in  those  predisposed  to  the  disease. 
It  does  not  stand  to  reason  that  a  disease  brought  on 
from  bad  eating  habits  can  be  cured  by  continuing  the 
habits  or  by  increasing  them. 

The  profession's  remedy  for  tuberculosis,  if  applied 
to  well  people,  would  break  them  down  and  kill  them  in 
a  very  short  time. 

Those  who  do  not  eat  meat,  eat  eggs,  nuts,  milk, 
cheese,  dry  beans  and  peas,  and  whole  grain  (all  foods 
containing  a  large  amount  of  protein)  until  they  are  as 
saturated  with  purins  as  the  heaviest  meat-eaters;  hence, 
the  vegetarians  can,  and  do,  develop  the  diseases  said  to 
belong  to  meat-eaters.  Overindulgence  in  sugar,  starch, 
and  fat  is  often  all  that  is  necessary  to  develop  a  disease. 

Holidays  Are  Disease  Builders. — After  feast-days, 
many  who  are  autotoxemic  are  prostrated  with  diseases, 
such  as  gastric  and  bowel  disorders,  colds,  grippe,  bron- 
chitis, pneumonia,  and  tuberculosis. 

A  box  of  candy  is  as  often  the  last  straw  as  a  meat, 
fowl,  or  fish  dinner.  An  oyster  stew  with  crackers,  taken 
after  the  theater,  is  often  the  final  coup. 

When  sickness  follows  a  fish  dinner,  starch — -bread 
or  crackers— has  as  much  to  do  with  it  as  the  animal 


126 


Food 


food;  for  without  the  starch  there  would  be  no  fermenta- 
tion. 

When  hunger  has  been  indulged  to  an  oversupply  of 
meat,  the  nerves  are  overstimulated.  The  first  sign  of 
this  overstimulation  is  an  increasing  desire  for  more 
stimulating  food  and  drink — an  appetite  is  developed. 
One  meal  has  not  gone  by  long  before  more  food  is 
wanted.  Along  with  an  increasing  desire  for  food  come 
headaches,  and  pains  in  other  parts  of  the  body;  tired- 
ness on  getting  up  of  a  morning  begins  to  make  its  ap- 
pearance, and  a  languidness  throughout  the  day  is  felt. 
The  growing  food-poisoning  causes  the  victim  to  sit 
down  at  every  opportunity,  and  an  unnatural  tiredness 
follows  work  of  all  kinds;  the  mouth  and  tongue  are  more 
or  less  coated,  and  the  taste  is  bad;  the  breath  gradually 
grows  offensive;  the  teeth  become  incrusted  with  tartar; 
the  bowels  become  sluggish;  the  complexion  grows 
muddy;  the  eyes,  that  were  once  bright,  grow  dull  and 
yellowish;  the  hair  loses  its  sheen  and  grows  thinner; 
the  nervous  system  becomes  enervated,  and  the  disposi- 
tion changes  from  optimism  to  pessimism.  Where  much 
starch,  fats,  and  sweets  are  combined  with  an  oversupply 
of  meat,  the  liver  becomes  sluggish;  there  may  be  much 
despondency;  the  pulse  slows  down;  headaches  grow 
more  severe;  rheumatism  begins  to  manifest  itself;  the 
bowels  show  a  tendency  for  retention,  even  if  there  is  a 
movement  each  day;  then  gas  accumulation  becomes  a 
source  of  annoyance,  and  is  also  often  quite  offensive;  the 
bowel  movements  are  much  of  the  time  foul-smelling; 
piles  become  troublesome  and  frequently  bleed.  If  the 
movements  from  the  bowels  are  watched,  they  will  be 
found  covered  with  more  or  less  mucus.  Typhlitis  and 
appendicitis  are  two  diseases  that  are  imminent. 

At  this  stage  of  food  poisoning  it  may  be  said  that 
there  exists  a  pronounced  autotoxemia.  The  exogenous 
purin  bodies  taken  in  with  meat,  coffee,  tea,  and  choco- 


Meat 


127 


late,  and  the  endogenous — those  manufactured  from 
other  foods  taken  into  the  body,  those  that  are  not 
classed  with  proteins — enervate  to  such  a  degree  that  the 
alcohol,  tobacco,  and  drug  habits  are  a  natural  conse- 
quence. Indeed,  if  habits  of  this  character  are  not  formed, 
acute  and  chronic  diseases,  including  insanities  and  crime 
(a  form  of  insanity),  must  develop  and  derange  the 
mind  and  body,  or  kill  both. 

Whatever  else  food  does  for  the  body,  it  is  first,  last, 
and  all  the  time  a  stimulant.  Food  in  required  quanti- 
ties gives  the  body  the  stimulation  necessary,  but  when 
used  in  excess  of  bodily  requirements,  it  overstimulates. 
It  is  then  that  food  becomes  a  drug — a  poison. 

So  far  as  health  is  concerned,  there  is  no  difference, 
except  in  degree,  between  overstimulation  from  meat, 
which  is  albumin,  and  overstimulation  from  alcohol.  The 
effect  of  both  is  enervating,  and  when  enervation  is  pro- 
nounced, elimination  is  inhibited  and  autotoxemia  fol- 
lows. 

What  difference  does  it  make  whether  we  die  from 
diabetes  caused  by  starch  poisoning,  or  from  neuritis  or 
delirium  tremens  from  alcohol  poisoning,  or  from  rheu- 
matic heart  disease  or  apoplexy  from  meat  poisoning? 

Poison  is  poison.  It  is  all  a  matter  of  degree.  Meat 
poisoning  cannot  kill  more  surely  than  bread  poisoning. 
Suppose  meat  creates  acute  inflammatory  rheumatism, 
and  starch  or  bread  causes  bursal  rheumatism,  and  alcohol 
brings  on  gout — can  there  be  much  choice? 

Meat  is  more  stimulating  than  other  foods.  A  more 
correct  statement  would  be  to  say  that  meat  is  easier  of 
digestion.  Hence,  when  eaten,  it  influences  more  quickly, 
and,  if  eaten  in  excess,  the  shock  of  stimulation  is  greater 
than  in  the  case  of  other  foods.  The  fact  that  it  is  more 
concentrated  and  more  readily  absorbed  accounts  for  the 
suddenness  of  its  influence.  To  illustrate:  Chloroform 
drunkenness  is  more  rapid  in  coming  on  and  in  going  off 


128 


Food 


than  the  drunkenness  caused  by  alcohol,  and  because  of 
the  rapidity,  or  suddenness,  of  the  influence  of  the  chlo- 
roform, it  is  more  detrimental  in  a  short  time  than 
alcohol. 

All  agree  that  meat  is  stimulating,  and,  when  used 
unwisely — eaten  in  too  large  quantities — the  system  is 
overstimulated ;  enervation  follows;  then  comes  auto- 
toxemia,  or  a  retention  of  waste  products,  of  which  uric 
acid  is  the  most  pronounced.  The  others  are  xanthine, 
hypoxanthine,  caffein,  thein,  theobromin,  guanin,  and 
adonin. 

These  are  purin  bodies,  and  they  may  be  oxogenous 
or  endogenous — taken  in  with  food,  or  generated  with- 
in the  organism.  The  following  is  the  principal  list  of 
foods  containing  purin  bodies:  meat,  fish,  beans,  aspar- 
agus, onions,  mushrooms,  tea,  coffee,  chocolate,  and  oat- 
meal. Ribs  of  beef  contain  8  grains  of  purin  per  pound; 
sirloin  of  beef,  9  plus;  steak,  14.5;  liver,  17.25;  thymus 
(sweetbreads),  0.5;  tea,  1.2  grains  to  the  pint;  coffee, 
1.7;  the  other  table  beverages  less,  down  to  lager-beer, 
which  contains  0.125,  and  porter,  0.155  per  liter. 

The  accumulation  of  these  purins  in  the  body  builds 
headaches  of  all  kinds:  the  so-called  bilious  headaches 
or  migraine — a  form  of  headache  that  most  physicians 
declare  cannot  be  cured.  My  experience  has  been  dif- 
ferent. All  headaches  can  be  cured  if  proper  dietetic 
instructions  are  given  and  followed.  Neuralgias  of  the 
subtler  sort  can  all  be  cured  without  operation;  but,  as 
the  fees  are  much  more  enticing — tempting — I  presume 
that  operations  will  continue  to  be  the  "dernier  resort** 
with  the  really  educated  in  the  profession.  Physicians 
with  modern  training  can  see  in  the  painful  nerve  a  little 
rebel  that  needs  decapitating.  Such  medical  men  look 
on  every  organ  "out  of  fix"  as  rebellious;  they  hold  the 
organ  itself  responsible;  they  do  not  grasp  the  truth  that 
every    localized    manifestation — localized    disease — is 


Meat 


129 


simply  a  local  manifestation  of  a  general  or  constitutional 
derangement. 

If  drugs  shock  (and  all  who  are  competent  to  judge 
know  they  do),  how  is  it  possible  for  drug-shock  to  cure 
food-shock?  Indeed,  drugs  do  not  cure,  but  add  to  food 
poisoning,  and  the  result  is  prolongation  of  disease;  and 
where  there  is  a  recovery,  or  rather  a  bettering  of  symp- 
toms and  apparent  recovery,  it  is  when  the  organism  is 
able  to  throw  off  both  influences. 

Then  the  question  to  settle  as  to  the  desirability  of 
meat  as  a  food  is:  Is  a  stimulant  desirable  under  all  cir- 
cumstances? If  not,  then  the  dietitian  should  know  when 
it  is  proper  and  safe  to  secure  quick  action.  This  opens 
up  a  large  field  for  speculation,  as  well  as  of  scientific  in- 
vestigation and  practical  experimentation — too  large  to 
do  more  than  simply  refer  to  a  few  of  its  phases;  namely: 
When  disease  or  injury  has  inhibited  nutrition,  and  the 
patient  is  low  from  pronounced  enervation,  the  feeding 
of  a  concentrated  meat  broth  may  overstimulate  and 
further  prostrate,  or  even  kill.  Under  such  circum- 
stances a  small  amount  of  fruit  or  vegetable  juice  will  be 
kindly  received  and  prove  life-imparting — I  mean  the 
fresh,  uncooked  juice. 

Diseases  brought  on  from  excessive  intake  of  meat 
must  be  cured  by  withholding  meat.  But  if  vegetable 
albumin  is  substituted  for  the  animal  albumin,  a  cure  will 
not  necessarily  follow;  for  the  vegetable  albuminoid  is 
harder  to  digest.  Then  digestive  derangement  will  be 
added  to  the  symptoms  of  the  disease  that  has  been 
set  up  by  excessive  meat-eating.  A  much  better  and 
shorter  way  out  of  the  difficulty  would  be  to  cut  down 
the  usual  amount  of  meat  eaten  to  one-half,  one-fourth, 
or  even  one- tenth,  and  then  combine  correctly;  or  go  on 
a  proteid  fast  of  long  enough  duration  to  allow  the  sys- 
tem to  free  itself  of  waste  products. 


130 


Food 


A  pronounced  symptom  of  overeating  of  concen- 
trated foods,  such  as  meat,  starch,  sugar,  and  fat,  is  an 
inability  to  eat  fruit.  When  anyone  declares  that  he  can- 
not eat  fruit  without  being  thrown  into  discomfort,  an 
investigation  will  show  that  he  is  pronouncedly  auto- 
toxemic. 

Are  Meats  and  Wheat  All  the  Food  Needed? — Be- 
cause both  meat  and  wheat  contain  the  fourteen  prin- 
cipal elements  of  the  human  body,  the  idea  that  to  eat 
freely  of  either  or  both  will  supply  the  body  with  all  the 
food  needed,  and  that  other  foods  are  not  necessary,  is 
quite  general.  The  continuation  of  this  reasoning  ex- 
cludes fruit  and  raw  vegetables;  for  why  take  up  valu- 
able stomach  space  by  eating  cattle  food  (salad  and 
fruit)  ?  The  majority  of  human  beings  believe  themselves 
to  be  fasting  when  eating  fruit  and  salad.  From  this 
point  of  reasoning  it  is  easy  to  come  to  the  conclusion 
that,  inasmuch  as  there  is  nothing  to  be  gained  by  the 
eating  of  fruit  (it  being  an  expensive  luxury,  and  raw 
vegetables  being  an  expensive  cow  food),  then,  for  eco- 
nomical reasons,  if  for  no  other,  these  should  be  left  out 
of  the  dietary.  Consequently,  a  habit  is  formed  of  eating 
too  much  meat,  bread,  potatoes,  beans,  and  peas;  if  a 
change  is  desired,  pudding,  pie,  and  rich  dressings  are 
added;  resulting  in  a  disease-producing  style  of  eating, 
and  a  world  of  sickness,  as  we  see  it  all  over  the  country. 

Combinations. — To  avoid  overeating,  meat  should 
be  eaten  with  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables  and  a  com- 
bination salad — a  large  dinner-plate-ful  of  salad.  About 
three  ounces  of  protein,  or  twelve  ounces  of  lean  meat,  is 
supposed  to  be  light  eating;  but  for  business  men,  four 
ounces  of  lean  meat  daily,  or  eight  ounces  every  other 
day,  with  a  large  plate  of  salad,  and  all  desired  of 
cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables,  with  fruit  for  dessert, 
makes  a  simple  meal  and  one  that  will  satisfy  a  normal 
man.    In  addition  to  this  dinner,  a  lunch  of  fruit,  and  a 


Meat 


131 


breakfast  of  bread  or  breakfast  food,  furnish  all  the 
variety  of  foods  needed. 

Cheese,  milk,  nuts,  eggs,  dry  beans  and  peas,  all  carry 
protein  in  large  quantities,  and  therefore  should  not  be 
eaten  in  the  same  meal  with  meat.  If  desired,  they 
may  be  substituted  for  meat  and  eaten  with  cooked,  non- 
starchy  vegetables  and  salad — the  two  foods  that  always 
go  with  protein-bearing  foods.  Meat  and  vegetables 
should  not  be  cooked  together. 

Dinners  may  be  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables,  salad, 
and  meat  every  other  day;  the  alternate  day,  cheese  (if 
cheese  is  not  eaten  at  lunches),  navy  or  butter  beans, 
dry  peas,  nuts,  or  eggs,  in  place  of  meat,  with  cooked, 
non-starchy  vegetables  and  salad. 

Eating  eggs  and  whole-wheat,  rye,  or  corn  bread  in 
the  morning;  and  meat,  or  some  other  food  that  carries 
a  large  percentage  of  protein,  for  dinner;  then  cheese 
and  milk  for  lunch,  is  overeating  on  protein-carrying 
foods,  and  will  build  all  the  diseases  peculiar  to  this  sort 
of  food  poisoning. 

Desserts. — Desserts  are  not  to  be  recommended  ex- 
cept on  rare  occasions.  Fruit  may  follow  a  meat  dinner 
——fruit  cooked  or  raw,  or  prepared  in  any  way,  except 
with  starch. 

Puddings,  when  eaten  at  all,  should  constitute  a  meal. 
Lunches  may  consist  of  a  small  meal  of  pudding,  pie, 
custard,  or  cake,  followed  with  hot  water  or  milk;  in  hot 
weather,  a  dish  of  ice-cream  with  any  of  the  above-named 
stomach-disturbers  (for  that  is  what  the  usual  dessert  is). 
Ice-cream  eaten  daily  will  create  stomach  derangement. 
Berries  and  ice-cream  make  a  toothsome  lunch  for  the 
"good  old  summer  time,"  and  a  satisfying  dessert  after 
a  meat  dinner. 

People  who  are  in  good  health  may  eat  for  dessert, 
after  a  dinner  of  meat,  salad,  and  cooked,  non-starchy 
vegetables,  a  piece  of  apple  pie;  prune- whip;  gelatin 


132 


Food 


fruited;  jellies,  marmalades,  or  preserves,  with  cream. 
If  the  meat  eaten  was  quite  fat,  cream  must  not  be  eaten. 

Effects. — In  times  gone  by,  the  Yankee  (American) 
has  had  the  reputation  of  being  a  dyspeptic.  "Yankee," 
"dyspepsia,"  and  "frying-pan"  are  a  trinity  of  words  de- 
risively used  to  mean  "American."  But  the  people  in 
the  United  States  are  learning  to  cook,  and  those  restau- 
rants that  have  the  reputation  of  furnishing  first-class 
steaks  are  usually  crowded  to  the  sidewalk  at  meal  times. 

McCulloch  says: 

In  the  past  ten  to  twenty  years  meat-eating  has  increased 
enormously,  especially  in  the  United  States  and  England, 
owing,  it  is  thought,  to  the  development  of  cheap  refrigerator 
processes,  canning,  and  increased  facilities  of  transportation. 
The  annual  per-capita  consumption  of  meat  has  almost  doubled 
during  the  past  half-century.  It  is  estimated  in  pounds  as 
follows: 


United  States   147 

England   100 

France   72 

Germany   64 

Russia   50 

Italy   24 


With  the  increased  consumption  of  meat  there  has 
been  a  gradual  decline  of  sickness.  It  is  not  due  to  meat 
alone;  for  the  decline  in  disease  has  many  causes.  Chris- 
tian Science  and  other  mental  schools  of  healing;  osteo- 
pathy, chiropractic,  and  other  drugless  methods  of  treat- 
ing the  sick,  have  gone  far  toward  educating  liberal- 
minded  people  out  of  the  drug  habit.  Diet  has  come  to 
stay,  and  the  people  generally  know  much  more  about 
the  necessity  of  eating  properly  than  ever  before.  Sani- 
tary science  has  stalked  a  pace  never  set  before,  and 
average  intelligence  has  increased  many  points.  All  of 
which  has  raised  the  health  standard,  in  spite  of  the  fetish- 
worship  and  practice  of  vaccination,  serum  immunization, 
unnecessary  surgery,  etc. 


Meat 


133 


The  best  prevention  against  sickness  is  ideal  health 
and  a  knowledge  of  how  to  preserve  the  health  standard; 
not  by  so-called  immunization,  but  by  knowing  the  limit 
to  resistance,  and  respecting  it. 

All  food  can  be  made  to  poison  the  body,  and  a 
general  knowledge  of  how  this  is  brought  about  is  more 
necessary  than  a  belief  in  vaccination. 

Meat  infections  may  be  attributed  to  two  causes: 
first,  eating  too  much  meat;  second,  eating  meat  that  is 
degenerating — becoming  tainted. 

It  is  said  that  prevention  of  infection  from  meat  and 
meat  products  depends,  first,  upon  the  health  of  the  ani- 
mal; next,  upon  the  mode  of  death;  and,  finally,  upon 
the  methods  of  butchering,  preserving,  and  handling  the 
flesh.  Careful  attention  to  every  detail  is  necessary; 
"cleanliness**  is  the  slogan;  careful  inspection  is  necessary; 
thorough  cooking  is  most  important;  and  then  a  knowl- 
edge that  will  prevent  overeating  will  save  from  sickness, 
and  in  many  cases  from  death. 

Raw  meat  should  not  be  used;  for  tape-worm  larvae 
are  liable  to  be  eaten,  and  unless  the  digestive  secretions 
are  up  to  their  normal  standard,  the  worm  may  hatch 
and  further  enervate  the  subject.  People  who  are  not  up 
to  a  normal  health  standard  should  eat  thoroughly  cooked 
meat  only.  They  should  not  eat  cold  meats,  because 
of  the  change  that  is  liable  to  take  place  in  meat  as  soon 
as  it  cools.  Only  the  robust  should  eat  bread  with  meat. 
Meat  and  bread  in  combination  tax  digestion  very 
severely,  and  in  time  will  prove  detrimental  to  the  most 
robust  in  health. 

Plethoric  people — those  of  full  habit — should  stop 
the  use  of  meat  entirely  until  much  improved;  then  use 
meat  only  once  a  day. 

Parasites  in  Meat. — Parasites  gain  entrance  to  the 
system  in  food  and  drink.  Much  is  made  of  this  fact  by 
authors  of  books  on  medical  science,  and  the  cause  of 


134 


Food 


parasites  taking  up  their  abode  in  the  body  of  man  is 
dismissed  with  that  one  salient  fact.  But  as  truly  as  it 
requires  more  vernal  signs  than  one  bluebird  to  make  a 
spring,  it  certainly  requires  more  than  one  fact  to  account 
for  the  cause  of  any  disease. 

If  all  that  is  necessary  to  start  a  parasitic  disease  is 
to  take  the  parasite,  or  its  embryo,  into  the  stomach  with 
food,  then  all  mankind  would  be  infested;  for  how  is  it 
possible  to  eat  without  taking  in  the  parasites  and  germs 
that  find  their  natural  habitat  on,  or  in,  all  food  that  man 
eats?  Professor  MetchnikofF  avoided  all  germs  and  para- 
sites by  eating  only  cooked  food;  yet  he  died  at  seventy- 
two  years  of  age.  Dr.  Powell,  of  Los  Angeles,  made  a 
show  of  eating  germs,  and  he  lived  to  near  eighty. 

Neither  of  these  facts  establishes  a  system.  Cause  is 
multiple. 

If  it  is  impossible  to  go  through  life  without  taking 
parasites,  or  their  embryos,  into  our  stomachs  along  with 
food,  then  why  do  so  few  people  develop  parasitic  dis- 
ease? 

The  same  question  applies  to  every  disease  that  man 
has.  If  typhoid  fever,  pneumonia,  appendicitis,  et  al., 
are  caused  by  germs,  and  there  are  germs  everywhere, 
and  germ-carriers  in  every  community,  and  germs  in 
people  who  have  not  at  any  time  developed  the  disease 
which  the  infesting  germs  are  said  to  produce,  then,  in 
the  name  of  reason,  why  attribute  the  cause  of  disease 
to  germs?  The  answer  comes:  Because  those  who  do 
not  take  the  disease  are  immune;  caused  to  be  immune 
by  a  large  toleration — resistance.  But  this  reason  is 
given  the  double  cross  by  friends  of  the  germ  theory 
when  they  insist  on  vaccination,  etc.,  to  prevent  the  tak- 
ing of  disease.  Reader,  do  not  forget  that  if  the  germ 
and  parasite  theories  of  cause  and  immunization  were 
true,  the  human  family  of  today  would  be  absolutely 


Meat 


135 


immune;  for  the  time  of  greatest  danger  from  disease  and 
death  from  this  cause  was  before  sanitation  was  known. 

The  causes  that  make  disease  possible,  as  I  have 
stated  continuously  during  my  writing  period,  are  any 
influences  that  lower  resistance  by  causing  enervation  and 
its  sequel,  autotoxemia. 

If  resistance  is  normal — if  health  is  normal — the 
body's  digestive  secretions  are  powerful  enough  to  cause 
a  benevolent  assimilation  of  all  parasitic  and  germ  life 
that  gains  entrance  with  the  food.  If  gluttony  is  prac- 
ticed, digestive  secretions  will  be  given  a  greater  work 
than  they  are  able  to  do;  then  they  lose  their  germicidal 
and  parasiticidal  power;  and  food  that  is  infested  with 
germs  takes  on  pathological  fermentation  instead  of 
physiological  fermentation,  and  the  system  then  begins 
to  be  poisoned  by  absorbed  ferments  and  retained  excre- 
tions. The  latter  process,  however,  is  a  conservative 
measure.  When  the  normal  defenses  are  broken  down, 
the  body  meets  disease  by  disease-producing  excretions 
— poison  is  antidoted  by  poison;  the  depression  brought 
on  by  ferments  and  ptomaines  is  met  by  the  antidotal 
influence  of  retained  excretions.  If  this  warfare  is  ex- 
tended at  too  great  length — if  the  food  intake  is  not 
checked  by  loss  of  appetite — then  the  system  will  be  over- 
whelmed by  retained  excretions  and  the  decomposition 
of  the  incoming  food,  and  the  victim  cannot  recover. 
How  should  it  be  treated?  Surely  not  by  forcing  elimi- 
nation so  long  as  the  intake  of  food  is  furnishing  a  poison 
that  requires  the  antidotal  influence  of  the  retained  excre- 
tions. Surely  not  by  the  use  of  antiferments  or  diges- 
tives; for  this  removes  the  poison  on  which  the  excre- 
tions act.  Stop  food,  and  immediately  elimination  be- 
gins. •  Nature  needs  no  assistance  in  securing  the  function- 
ing of  organs;  simply  remove  the  cause  of  functional  in- 
hibition, and  the  process  of  elimination  starts  with  increas- 
ing speed,  until  all  retentions  are  removed  from  the 


136 


Food 


body,  including  fluid  accumulations  in  cavities  and 
growths  of  all  kinds. 

To  use  eliminating  drugs,  and  at  the  same  time  con- 
tinue heavy  eating,  or  the  style  of  eating  that  makes  arti- 
ficial elimination  necessary,  is  a  direct  interference  with 
the  conservative  efforts  of  the  body,  and  builds  disease 
and  early  death. 

If  elimination  is  imperfect,  then  eliminating  foods 
should  be  used  to  the  exclusion  of  all  others,  until  the 
body  is  normal. 

Surely  nothing  more  need  be  added  in  explanation  of 
parasites  and  their  prevention.  Keep  up  a  normal  health 
standard  and  defy  disease.  Perhaps  I  may  as  well  re- 
mark, in  passing,  that  mental  germs  and  parasites  are  to 
be  prevented  and  cured  in  the  same  way. 

BEEF 


Food  Materials 
(as  Purchased) 


Refuse, 
Per 
Ct. 


Water, 
Per 
Ct. 


Protein, 
Per 
Ct. 


Fat, 
Per 
Ct. 


Carbo- 
hydrates, 
Per 
Ct. 


Ash, 
Per 
Ct. 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 


Beef,  fresh: 

Chuck  ribs  

Flank  

Loin  

Porterhouse  steak. 

Sirloin  steak  

Neck  

Ribs  

Rib  rolls  

Round  

Rump  

Shank,  fore  

Shoulder  and  clod. 

Fore  quarter  

Hind  quarter  


16.3 
10.2 
13.3 
12.7 
12.8 
27.6 
20.8 


7.2 
20.7 
36.9 
16.4 
18.7 
15.7 


52.6 
54.0 
52.5 
52.4 
54.0 
45.9 
43.8 
63.9 
60.7 
45.0 
42.9 
56.8 
49.1 
50.4 


15.5 
17.0 
16.1 
19.1 
16.5 
14.5 
13.9 
19.3 
19.0 
13.8 
12.8 
16.4 
14.5 
15.4 


15.0 
19.0 
17.5 
17.9 
16.1 
11.9 
21.2 
16.7 
12.8 
20.2 
7.3 
9.8 
17.5 
18.3 


0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 

1.0 
0.7 
0.6 
0.9 
0.7 
0.7 


910 
1105 
1025 
1100 
975 
1165 
1135 
1055 
890 
1090 
545 
715 
995 
1045 


The  composition  of  beef  is  variable.  It  is  obvious  that 
fat  beef  must  be  quite  different  from  lean.  An  ox  from 
three  to  five  years  old  supplies  the  best  beef.  Lean  beef 
from  a  lean  animal  contains  about  seventy-five  per  cent 


Meat 


137 


water  and  two  per  cent  fat.  The  water  in  meat  is  re- 
duced to  fifty  or  sixty  per  cent  when  the  fat  is  increased. 

Nitrogen  or  protein  is  reduced  in  fat  meat.  The  rea- 
son why  pork  taxes  the  assimilative  power  more  than 
other  meats  is  because  of  its  greater  fatness  and  the  ease 
with  which  it  is  digested,  compared  with  the  fat  of  the 
sheep  and  ox.  What  I  mean  by  taxing  the  digestion  is 
that  more  is  digested  and  absorbed;  hence  it  taxes  the 
organism  in  a  metabolic  way;  in  other  words,  there  is  not 
so  much  waste. 

Beef,  after  pork,  is  the  most  popular  meat.  Beef  is 
the  rich,  or  well-to-do,  man's  meat.  As  soon  as  the 
average  man's  ship  comes  in — as  soon  as  wages  are  ad- 
vanced, the  cottage  grows  into  a  large  house,  and  the 
prosperity  changes  street-car  riding  into  automobile  rid- 
ing— beef  steak  supplants  pork  steak.  When  hard  times 
come,  T-bone  and  loin  steaks  give  place  to  round  and 
chuck  steak,  and  later  on  to  pork  steak. 

Meat  Preparations  Predigested. — There  are  many 
meat  preparations  on  the  market,  both  solid  and  liquid; 
the  object  being  to  have  a  very  concentrated  food,  and 
one  easy  of  digestion.  The  principal  virtue  of  all  such 
preparations  is  that  they  are  make-believes.  Those  to 
whom  such  foods  are  given  require  a  fast  oftener  than 
feeding.  The  suggestion  that  a  very  nutritious  food  is 
being  given  proves  to  be  remedial,  while  in  reality  the 
make-believe  food  does  little  more  than  to  satisfy  the 
mind;  an  equivalent  amount  of  hot  water  and  a  little  salt 
would  do  as  well.  The  rule  is  that  meat  preparations 
(the  drug-store  foods)  are  given  at  a  time  when  patients 
should  not  be  fed — at  a  time  when  ordinary  food  cannot 
be  digested.  It  is  then  that  suggestive  feeding — the  giv- 
ing of  drug-store  food — is  a  great  success.  Because  of 
its  very  slight  nutritive  value,  it  does  not  interfere  with 
elimination,  but  allows  disease  to  be  thrown  off  and 
recovery  to  take  place,  much  as  a  fast  would. 


\ 


138 


Food 


What  is  disease?  Faulty  elimination.  When  the 
balance  is  lost  between  building-up  and  elimination,  and 
retention  of  excretory  products  is  manifested  by  symp- 
toms we  call  disease — pain  or  discomfort — food  intake 
of  any  kind  should  be  suspended  until  metabolic  equi- 
librium is  established.  If  fasting — which  is  nature's 
remedy — is  not  adopted,  the  patient  will  often  become 
so  sick  that  all  desire  for  eating  is  lost;  and  it  will  not 
return  until  retained  waste  products  are  thrown  off. 

The  inert  preparations  on  the  market  called  "foods 
for  invalids"  are  under  the  circumstances  life-saving;  for 
they  satisfy  the  doctor  (who  believes  that  patients  must 
be  fed  to  keep  up  their  strength!),  and  give  physiological 
rest  to  the  patient  while  disease  is  being  thrown  off. 

Beef  juice  has  little  nutritive  value — only  four  or  five 
per  cent  of  protein.  Its  chief  value,  according  to  believers 
in  feeding  the  sick,  is  that  the  meat  juice  stimulates  the 
appetite.  But  the  truth  is  that  feeding  such  a  so-called 
food  encourages  the  doctor  and  patient  to  wait  for  a 
normal  desire — encourages  fasting,  by  make-believe  feed- 
ing, until  the  appetite  returns,  which  it  will  do  as  soon 
as  elimination  has  rid  the  system  of  autotoxemia.  To 
feed  prevents  elimination,  and,  as  long  as  elimination  is 
kept  in  check,  appetite  is  nil  or  capricious.  This  has  ref- 
erence to  acute  diseases  rather  than  to  chronic  diseases. 


PORK 


Food  Materials  *£I 
(as_Purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

10.7 
19.7 
12.4 

48.0 
41.8 
44.9 
66.5 

13.5 
13.4 
12.0 
18.9 

25.9 
24.2 
29.8 
13.0 

0.8 
0.8 
0.7 
1.0 

1320 
1245 
1450 
*  895 

Beef  and  pork  are  the  staple  meats.  Pork  is  the 
poor  man  s  meat.    And  the  more  he  eats  of  it,  the  poorer 


Meat 


139 


he  must  get;  for  as  a  brain  food  it  ranks  lower  than  other 
meats.  It  is  said  to  carry  one  and  one-half  per  cent  of 
brain  food,  while  beef  carries  five  per  cent.  It  may  be 
said,  however,  that  there  are  food  tables  that  give  pork 
a  greater  percentage  of  brain-building  material  than  beef. 
Readers,  do  you  know  that  there  is  as  much  difference  be- 
tween conclusions  arrived  at  by  the  analysts,  or  food 
experts,  as  between  the  measurements  of  surveyors? 

There  is  nothing  so  unreliable  as  tables  giving  the  ele- 
ments of  food,  unless  it  is  the  diagnoses  of  the  average 
doctor.  Why  slam  the  doctor?  Diagnosis  has  nothing 
to  do  with  cause;  hence  the  uncertainty  of  diagnosis. 
When  naming  disease  is  made  to  carry  a  definition  of 
cause,  there  will  not  be  so  much  uncertainty. 

Because  beef  carries  so  much  more  brain-building 
material  than  pork,  if  this  fact  were  generally  known,  I 
presume  that  pork-eating  would  be  given  up  by  all  who 
could  raise  the  price  for  beef,  and  then  all  would  literally 
stuff  in  an  endeavor  to  build  brains.  Food  that  builds 
brain  ought  to  be  valuable;  but  brain  is  not  all  that  is 
necessary.  A  brain  that  cannot  think  may  be  ornamental, 
but  it  certainly  is  not  very  useful.  In  this  connection 
it  might  be  well  to  remark  that  a  large  brain  is  not  neces- 
sarily of  fine  texture;  often,  indeed,  coarse  and  brutal. 
Overeating  will  cause  a  sluggish  state  of  the  brain,  even 
if  the  supply  of  brain  food  is  all  that  is  desired.  An  ath- 
lete may  render  his  brain  very  inefficient  by  overeating. 

Pork  is  related  to  other  meats  as  anthracite  is  related 
to  other  kinds  of  coal.  It  is  a  heat-producer  "par  excel- 
lence,* *  besides  furnishing  proteid  for  tissue-building. 

The  reason  why  this  meat  is  not  standard  today,  as 
it  was  a  hundred  years  ago,  is  because  the  people  of 
today  live  in  warmer  houses,  live  more  indoors,  wear 
more  clothes,  and  eat  more  starch  and  sugar. 

The  change  to  warmer  houses,  more  clothes,  and 
sugar-eating  is  not  so  desirable,  but  the  eating  of  more 


140 


Food 


beef  and  mutton  is  a  favorable  change.  In  the  early 
days  of  this  country,  game  took  the  place  of  domesti- 
cated meat.  Game-eating  and  outdoor  life  came  as  near 
spelling  health  as  any  style  of  living  vouchsafed  to  man 
in  the  Occident. 

As  the  composition  of  the  brain  and  nervous  system 
is  principally  albumin,  fat,  phosphorus,  and  water,  and 
nerve  and  brain  energy  depends  upon  the  phosphorus 
contained  in  the  food,  and  the  body  depends  upon  nitro- 
gen for  its  food,  it  should  be  seen  that  fat  animals,  be  they 
pork  or  beef,  do  not  furnish  the  nerve  and  brain  energy 
required. 

Probably  there  is  a  greater  proportion  of  lean  meat  in 
beef  than  there  is  in  pork,  and  this  accounts  for  a  larger 
percentage  of  brain  food  in  beef  than  in  pork.  Another 
reason:  there  is  less  brain  food  in  pork  than  in  beef  be- 
cause hogs  are  confined  to  smaller  quarters — smaller  pens 
— and  during  the  hog's  life  it  gets  less  exercise,  and  neces- 
sarily more  fat-producing  food.  It  is  true  that  finally 
both  animals  are  kept  from  all  exercise — stall-fed- — and 
forced  into  a  state  of  fatty  degeneration  before  being 
butchered  for  market;  and,  as  a  result,  they  both  have 
less  nitrogen  and  more  fat. 

As  phosphates  are  found  in  the  nitrogenous  foods  of 
both  animals  and  vegetables,  when  food  is  selected  for 
its  phosphatic  properties,  we  should  not  select  from  the 
carbon  groups — sugar,  starch,  and  fat — but  rather  the 
albumin,  fiber,  and  casein  of  animals,  and  the  gluten, 
albumin,  and  casein  of  vegetable  food. 

In  the  days  of  "auld  lang  syne**  our  American  farm- 
ers raised  their  hogs  in  wooded  pastures,  where  they  fed 
upon  nuts — acorns — and  rooted  for  a  living  without  a 
ring  in  their  noses.  Their  meat  was  firm,  and  no  doubt 
carried  much  more  nitrate,  hence  more  phosphates.  Not 
many  of  our  people  had  cultivated  the  sedentary,  and  the 
sugar-  and  starch-eating  habits.     Those  were  the  days 


Meat 


141 


when  the  hog  gained  its  reputation  as  a  producer  of 
staple  food.  That  the  animal  has  lost  its  reputation  is  no 
fault  of  its  own;  modern  civilization  has  forced  it  into 
a  state  of  fatty  degeneration — into  a  physical  state  of  fat 
and  a  nervous  state  of  enervation. 

If  man  is  to  eat  of  devitalized  food,  will  he  not  be- 
come devitalized  also?  He  certainly  will.  In  the  south- 
ern states  more  pork  is  eaten  than  in  the  North,  because 
pork  can  be  cured  and  kept  in  a  better  state  of  preserva- 
tion than  other  meats;  hence  it  is  natural  for  people  in 
the  warmer  parts  of  the  country  to  eat  more  of  this  heat- 
ing food.  This  is  not  a  good  habit,  but  it  has  been 
formed,  and  will  continue  among  the  workers  and  poorer 
people  for  some  time  yet — until  they  know  better. 

It  is  common  talk  that  the  people  in  the  South  are 
sluggish,  listless,  and  dull.  An  overheating  food  in  a 
warm  climate  will  account  for  much  of  this.  People 
troubled  in  this  way  should  give  up  fat  entirely,  including 
butter,  reduce  their  consumption  of  starch  cooked  in 
grease,  and  eat  more  fresh  fruit,  salads,  and  whole-wheat 
bread. 

Pork  is  an  excellent  food  for  cold  weather;  for  the 
human  organism  requires  four  times  as  much  food  for 
producing  heat  as  for  making  muscles — that  is,  four 
times  as  much  fat,  sugar,  and  starch  as  albumin,  fibrin, 
gluten,  and  casein.  Pork  contains,  in  one  pound  of  its 
fat,  the  equivalent  of  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar  or 
starch;  hence,  less  than  half  as  much  of  animal  food  is 
required  as  of  the  best  vegetable  food.  This  being  true, 
it  will  be  seen  that  it  is  much  easier  to  overeat  on  meat 
than  on  other  foods. 

More  animal  food  is  required  in  winter  than  in  sum- 
mer. In  cold  countries  fat  is  provided  as  a  heat- 
producer,  while  in  hot  countries  sugar  and  starch  are  the 
heat-producers. 


142 


Food 


Because  of  the  excess  of  fat,  and  the  small  percentage 
of  albuminoid  or  tissue- forming  food,  found  in  pork,  there 
has  sprung  up  the  habit  of  eating  beans  with  pork.  The 
field  bean  contains  about  twenty-four  per  cent  of  muscle- 
maker,  while  in  a  hundred  pounds  of  pork  there  is  only 
ten  per  cent  of  muscle-making  food.  If,  however,  only 
bacon  or  sow-belly  is  eaten,  as  is  often  the  case  in  lum- 
bering camps  and  mining  countries,  the  meat  is  little  more 
than  fat,  and  unless  beans  were  eaten  also,  those  eating 
such  meat  would  run  down  and  be  unable  to  work.  Sup- 
pose rice  should  be  substituted  for  beans?  The  laborer 
then  would  get  only  about  one-fourth  as  much  muscle- 
feeder  and  more  than  one-third  more  heating  food.  If 
whole  wheat  should  be  used  in  place  of  beans,  nearly  half 
the  muscle-builder  would  be  lost,  and  from  ten  to  twelve 
per  cent  more  heating  food  would  be  added. 

Before  the  American  Civil  War  the  people  living 
along  the  rivers,  streams,  and  small  creeks,  and  in  the 
wooded  country  (the  early  settlers  shunned  the  prairies), 
lived  on  wild  game  and  little  else.  Corn  bread  was 
staple.  They  had  very  little  wheat  bread,  and  what  they 
did  have  was  disease-building,  because  it  was  so  poorly 
made.  Really  lazy  and  shiftless  people  would  frequently 
sit  down  to  a  breakfast  of  fat  pork  and  white-flour  bis- 
cuit. Is  it  necessary  to  say  that  these  people  were  pale, 
anemic,  and  good  for  nothing?  Because  of  people  of 
this  order,  pork  has  received  its  bad  reputation.  Would 
these  people  have  been  any  better  off  if  they  had  used 
olive  oil,  butter,  or  peanut  butter  with  such  bread  as  they 
ate?  If  cooking  is  bad,  a  vegetable  oil,  or  butter  sub- 
stituted for  lard,  will  not  improve  it,  nor  make  the  food 
wholesome. 

Beans  or  peas  and  pork  is  a  food  for  hard  workers 
and  soldiers.  It  is  said  that  the  German  army  is  provided 
with  a  concentrated  powder  made  of  pork  and  peas,  and 


Meat 


143 


all  that  the  soldier  needs  in  addition,  to  provide  himself 
with  a  nourishing  meal  of  soup,  is  hot  water. 

For  sedentary  people — for  those  who  are  confined  to 
the  house,  office,  or  indoor  work,  and  who  are  deprived 
of  exercise  in  the  open  air  and  sunshine — pork,  or  pork 
and  beans,  is  too  hearty.  I  am  told  that  this  is  a  Sunday- 
morning  meal  with  the  majority  of  New  England  people. 
Perhaps  this  accounts  for  their  Puritanism! 

I  have  seen  somewhere  an  estimate  of  the  number  of 
tons  of  pork  and  beans  preached  to  every  Sunday  morn- 
ing in  New  England  while  the  brains  of  the  digestive 
laboratories  are  asleep.  Why  do  these  pious  people 
sleep?  Because  the  brain  cannot  work  when  the  body 
is  tussling  with  a  jag  of  pork  and  beans.  There  is  enough 
brain  food  in  this  favorite  Yankee  breakfast  to  allow 
much  thought  to  be  given  to  hard  theological  problems, 
if  the  nerve  energy  it  supplies  was  not  used  up  in  diges- 
tion. 

Because  of  the  stupefying  and  nerve-exhausting  effects 
of  this  diet  on  sedentary  people,  many  condemn  the  eat- 
ing of  pork  and  would  have  it  banished  as  a  food.  Many 
of  these  anti-pork-eaters  suffer  the  same  stupefying  in- 
fluence from  beans  cooked  with  olive  oil  and  doughnuts 
fried  in  vegetable  oil.  Few  know  what  good  cooking  is, 
and  many  imagine  that  the  harm  comes  from  pork — pork 
fat.  But  the  truth  is  that  bad  cooking,  wrong  combina- 
tions, and,  neither  last  nor  least,  the  universal  habit  of 
overeating,  bring  discredit  on  such  a  valuable  and  staple 
food  as  pork. 

Is  it  not  the  hog  fat  that  causes  doughnuts  to  be  in- 
digestible? No!  The  doughnut  can  be  made  indigestible 
by  being  improperly  cooked  in  butter,  olive  oil,  or  goose 
fat.  When  a  doughnut  is  converted  into  a  "sinker"  by 
bad  cooking,  it  is  as  indigestible  when  cooked  in  butter 
or  olive  oil  as  it  is  when  cooked  in  lard.  Chicken  fried 
in  butter  or  olive  oil  can  be  ruined,  and  made  as  indi- 


144 


Food 


gestible  as  when  improperly  fried  in  lard.  It  makes 
little  difference  whether  a  dog  is  choked  to  death  on 
butter  or  lard;  the  object  should  be  to  get  these  fats  down 
without  killing  it. 

If  the  molded  dough  out  of  which  doughnuts  are  to  be 
made  is  dropped  into  piping-hot  lard  or  any  other  boiling 
fat,  and  then  taken  out  as  soon  as  cooked,  placed  on  a 
soft  towel,  and  another  towel  used  to  take  up  all  super- 
fluous fat,  the  sweet  bread,  or  doughnuts,  will  absorb 
very  little  grease.  The  object  should  be  to  cook  the 
dough  thoroughly,  and  cook  it  so  rapidly  that  it  will 
prevent  the  grease  from  striking  in.  When  properly 
cooked,  this  food  will  agree  with  people  in  health;  but 
those  who  are  troubled  with  a  complaining  stomach 
should  not  indulge. 

The  same  rules  must  be  followed  when  cooking 
spring  chicken.  The  lard  must  be  hot  enough  to  sear 
the  chicken,  or  any  meat  that  is  to  be  cooked.  When  the 
chicken  is  thoroughly  cooked,  it  should  be  taken  up  in 
a  cullender  with  a  large  wire  scoop,  the  superfluous 
grease  should  be  wiped  off  with  a  towel  that  will  absorb, 
and  the  meat  placed  in  a  warming-oven  to  keep  hot  until 
served. 

Saratoga  chips  or  French  fried  potatoes  should  be 
cooked  in  the  same  way.  Everything,  so  far  as  securing 
a  wholesome  food  is  concerned,  depends  upon  the  dex- 
terity of  the  cook.  Nowhere  does  every  motion  count  as 
in  cooking.  The  slow-motioned  individual — the  one 
whose  head  never  saves  his  heels — had  better  leave  the 
cooking  of  such  foods  to  the  expert. 

I  am  not  recommending  these  starch  and  grease  prep- 
arations, but,  as  there  are  people  who  will  have  such 
food,  I  see  no  reason  why  they  should  not  know  how  to 
prepare,  or  have  such  foods  prepared,  in  the  best  way. 

I  want  to  emphasize  the  fact  that  these  foods  are  not 
indigestible  because  of  the  lard,  but  because  of  the  lack 


Meat 


145 


of  skill  m  cooking.  Many  foods  that  are  wholesome 
when  properly  prepared  are  given  the  black  eye  by  a  cook 
who  has  not  yet  graduated  as  an  expert  "pot>slinger** — 
dish-washer. 

No  fat  (except  cream)  can  be  used  to  greater  advan- 
tage in  making  biscuit  than  a  high  grade  of  lard.  But  in 
the  matter  of  making  biscuit,  the  same  as  in  making 
doughnuts,  expertness  in  manipulating  the  ingredients, 
and  expeditiousness  in  getting  the  bread  into  the  oven, 
are  necessary.  And  then  to  know  just  how  hot  the  oven 
should  be,  and  the  kind  of  fire  required,  is  as  necessary 
as  to  know  any  other  detail  in  bread-making.  It  requires 
skill  to  make  bread — skill  of  a  superior  order.  People 
who  can  become  expert  cooks  could  become  expert  in 
almost  any  department  in  the  world  of  work. 

Pork  is  injurious  when  eaten  by  those  who  have  not 
the  digestive  power  to  take  care  of  it.  Much  also  depends 
upon  how  it  is  cooked.  Fried  pork  is  no  better  nor  worse 
than  any  other  fried  food.  The  harm  comes  in  ill  prep- 
aration— spoiling  in  cooking — in  overeating,  and  bad 
combinations.  If  a  family  is  not  prepared  to  cook  prop- 
erly, and  frying  is  necessary,  or  desired,  then  manipulate 
the  cooking  in  the  best  way  possible  with  the  conveniences 
at  hand. 

Combinations. — What  should  be  eaten  with  pork? 
Certainly  not  starch,  fat,  or  sweets.  To  do  so  would 
overtax  the  digestion  with  heat-producing  food,  and  this 
would  cause  a  sluggish  liver;  the  skin  would  become 
muddy;  pimples  and  boils  would  be  liable  to  develop; 
the  tongue  would  coat,  and  the  breath  become  offensive. 
Proper  foods  to  combine  with  pork  are:  the  non-starchy 
vegetables,  cooked  and  dressed  in  the  simplest  way; 
fruit  and  salad  or  slaw;  cranberry,  apple,  or  fruit  sauce 
of  any  kind;  jellies,  fruit  butters,  and  marmalades;  the 
tart  fruits,  both  cooked  and  raw,  being  best.  On  account 
of  the  fatness  of  pork,  the  vegetables  should  be  eaten 


146 


Food 


without  butter  or  cream.  A  large  dinner-plate  of  com- 
bination salad — lettuce,  tomatoes,  and  celery,  dressed 
with  salt  and  lemon,  juice — may  be  eaten  also.  If  de- 
sired, a  little  onion  or  garlic  may  be  put  in  the  salad. 
Olive  oil  should  be  left  out  of  the  salad,  for  the  same 
reason  that  butter  and  cream  should  be  left  out  of  the 
cooked  vegetables.  Those  who  must  have  pickles,  chow- 
chow,  olives,  etc.,  can  eat  them  with  this  dinner,  or  any 
other  meat  dinner  in  which  there  are  no  starchy  foods. 
No  doubt  someone  will  require  a  dessert  with  this  dinner. 
He  may  have  fresh  fruit,  such  as  sliced  oranges  or  grape- 
fruit, or  a  fruit  salad,  or  canned  fruits.  No  puddings, 
pies,  or  starchy  desserts  of  any  kind  should  be  eaten  with 
this  dinner. 

Meat  and  Starch. — Starchy  foods,  such  as  beans, 
bread,  rice,  or  potatoes,  should  not  be  eaten  with  meat, 
especially  with  pork.  Potato  is  the  least  objectionable 
of  all  starchy  foods  to  be  served  with  meat.  When  starch 
is  eaten  with  meat,  the  meal  should  be  very  simple,  con- 
sisting of  pork  in  any  form  desired,  and  baked  potatoes, 
with  a  combination  salad.  The  salad  should  be  pre- 
pared as  recommended  for  the  other  dinner,  without  oil. 
If  the  dinner  is  confined  to  the  few  items  named,  and 
overeating  is  avoided,  nothing  but  comfort  and  good 
digestion  will  follow  this  meal;  but  if  fruits  and  starchy 
desserts,  with  pickles,  etc.,  be  added,  look  out  for  indi- 
gestion. 

When  a  dinner  such  as  the  foregoing,  containing  pota- 
toes, is  eaten,  the  breakfast  and  lunch  should  be  fruit. 
When  pork,  salad  or  fruit,  and  vegetables  are  to  be  eaten 
for  dinner,  the  breakfast  should  be  whole-wheat  bread 
or  corn  bread,  butter,  and  a  small  quantity  of  honey. 
When  through  eating,  sip  a  cup  or  two  of  teakettle  tea, 
or  cereal  coffee,  or  hot  water.  Lunch  should  be  fruit — 
fresh,  uncooked  preferred. 

A  fine  eating-apple  cannot  be  beaten  by  any  other 


Meat 


147 


fruit,  and  should  be  eaten  raw  to  get  the  best  results.  It  is 
worth  while  knowing  that  in  pork  there  is  about  sixty  per 
lent  solid  matter,  of  which  ten  per  cent  is  nitrogenous; 
or  one-sixth  of  the  solids  are  tissue-building,  and  one 
md  one-half  per  cent  are  mineral — food  for  the  brain — 
which  represents  one-fortieth  of  the  solids.  In  apples 
:here  is  about  sixteen  per  cent  solid  matter;  five  per  cent, 
Dr  nearly  one-third,  is  nitrogenous,  and  one  per  cent,  or 
Dne-sixteenth,  phosphate  or  brain-builder.  Hence  there  is 
twice  as  much  tissue-building  material,  and  two  and 
Dne-half  times  as  much  brain-building  material,  in  apples 
is  in  pork.  And  those  who  think  that  eating  apples  or 
my  other  fruit  is  equivalent  to  not  eating  at  all  should 
emember  that,  according  to  tables  of  nourishment,  there 
s  in  fruit  and  succulent  vegetables  a  larger  proportion 
>f  nitrogenous  and  phosphatic  nourishment  than  in  the 
nore  solid  foods,  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  water. 

There  is  in  apples  nearly  twice  the  food  value  for 
nuscles  that  there  is  in  wheat,  and,  considering  that  the 
phosphates  in  wheat  are  partly  insoluble,  there  is  more 
han  four  times  as  much  food  value  for  brain-building  in 
ipples  as  there  is  in  wheat.  This  estimate  is  not  believed 
:o  be  unfair,  because  wheat  requires  as  much  water  in  the 
process  of  digestion  as  do  apples,  all  that  is  needed  in  the 
vheat  being  demanded  and  taken  as  drink  (Bellows). 

Why  should  not  cheese  be  eaten  with  fruit  at  noon, 
vhen  having  pork  for  the  dinner  at  night,  and  starch  for 
jreakfasO  Because,  if  a  hearty  dinner  is  eaten  in  the 
ivening,  enough  pork  will  be  eaten  to  furnish  all  the  pro- 
eid  needed,  when  the  breakfast — bread — is  considered. 

Meat,  bread,  and  potatoes  in  combination  is  a  com- 
non  diet  among  farmers  and  laboring-men.  And  what 
s  the  result?  Premature  aging,  much  sickness,  and  pre- 
nature  death.  Laboring-men  and  farmers  present  bodies 
hat  are  bent  and  stiff  before  middle  life.  They  lose 
heir  suppleness  early  in  life;  and  this  is  due  entirely  to 


148 


Food 


a  slowly  suicidal  diet.  Their  bodies  are  not  only  stiff, 
but  their  minds  fail  to  develop  into  full  efficiency,  because 
digestion  and  assimilation  are  imperfect,  due  to  over- 
indulgence in  eating  heavy  foods,  and  too  frequently  to 
wrong  cooking. 

Phosphorus  is  needed  to  build  the  brain  and  nervous 
system,  and,  unless  soluble  phosphates  are  taken  into  the 
body  with  which  to  supply  nerve  energy,  the  body  be- 
comes stiff,  sluggish,  and  dull.  Apples  eaten  with  pork 
help  to  supply  the  phosphorus  in  which  this  meat  is 
deficient. 

The  common  style  of  cooking  deprives  the  food  on 
most  tables  of  the  soluble  salts — the  tissue  salts.  When 
food  is  cooked  in  a  lot  of  water,  the  soluble  salts  are 
extracted  and  thrown  away.  The  good  housewife,  who 
has  a  community  reputation  of  being  a  fine  cook,  washes 
and  soaks  beans  overnight;  then  in  the  morning  she  drains 
off  the  water,  and  adds  fresh  water  with  which  to  parboil ; 
after  parboiling,  the  water  is  again  drained  off,  and  more 
added  with  which  to  finish  cooking.  Beans  cooked  in 
this  way  are  deprived  of  the  soluble  phosphates  and 
other  salts.  It  must  be  remembered  that  beans  belong  to 
that  class  of  foods  that  carry  the  base-forming  elements 
— their  potentiality  is  alkaline;  and  the  soaking  removes 
this  element.  Then,  when  beans  are  eaten  with  meat, 
bread,  and  the  usual  combinations,  the  system  is  deprived 
of  the  base-forming  elements  to  such  a  degree  that  dis- 
eases of  a  scorbutic  or  scrofulous  character  are  developed. 
Pork  being  low  in  the  element  phosphorus,  and  beans  and 
other  vegetables  that  are  usually  eaten  with  this  meat 
having  their  phosphates  and  other  salts  soaked  out  and 
drained  away,  it  is  easy  to  see  that  sluggishness  of  mind 
and  body  must  follow  such  eating.  It  is  easy  to  see  that, 
if  the  food  of  a  given  style  of  eating  is  deprived  of  nerve- 
building  material,  and  if  perfect  digestion  depends  upon 
nerve  energy,  those  who  persist  in  eating  in  this  way  must 


Meat 


149 


come  to  grief — they  must  bankrupt  their  nervous  system, 
become  invalids,  and  die  early. 

Even  if  the  cooking  is  perfect  and  the  food  is  in  a 
prime  and  natural  state,  the  eating  of  starch-bearing  foods 
with  meat  is  wrong;  for  starchy  foods  should  be  thor- 
oughly masticated.  To  do  so  causes  an  extra  secretion 
of  saliva  and  gastric  juice,  which  delays  digestion.  The 
acid  of  the  gastric  secretion  delays  the  digestion  of  the 
starch,  and  the  extra  supply  of  saliva  incorporated  with 
the  meat  causes  it  to  digest  slowly.  Both  these  hindrances 
to  digestion  bring  about  so  much  delay  that  pathological 
fermentation  is  often  developed;  then  follow  gas  in  the 
bowels,  constipation,  and  systemic  infection.  From  such 
infection,  diseases  on  the  order  of  lymphangitis  (surgical 
tuberculosis),  adenitis,  pulmonary  tuberculosis,  goiter, 
and  many  other  diseases,  spring  up. 

It  is  not  necessary  that  any  given  meal  should  repre- 
sent a  balanced  bill-of-fare.  I  do  not  believe  it  would 
be  necessary  to  have  all  the  food  required  by  the  body 
represented  in  one  meal,  even  if  that  one  meal  should  be 
the  only  meal  eaten  in  a  day. 

As  most  people  eat  three  meals  a  day,  then,  when 
such  food  as  pork,  halibut,  or  herring  is  to  be  eaten  at 
dinner,  the  food  for  breakfast  and  lunch  should  contain 
the  oxygen,  nitrates,  and  phosphates  that  are  deficient  in 
the  dinner  foods. 


PORK  SAUSAGE 


Food  Materials 
(as  Purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 
44.2 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

39.8 

13.0 

1.1 

2.2 

2075 

This  form  of  meat  is  very  palatable  to  many  people. 
But  it  certainly  taxes  digestion  and  should  not  be  eaten 


150 


Food 


except  by  those  in  good  health;  and  if  they  would  retain 
health,  they  should  not  eat  it  too  frequently.  If  eaten 
for  breakfast,  corn  or  whole-wheat  bread,  or  potatoes 
(baked),  may  be  eaten  with  it;  or  leave  out  the  starchy 
food  and  eat  fresh  or  uncooked  fruit.  Follow  this  break- 
fast with  a  lunch  of  rice  pudding  or  a  light  bread  pudding, 
or  a  piece  of  pie  and  a  glass  of  milk.  Dinner  in  the  even- 
ing: salad  and  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables.  Starting 
the  day  with  a  sausage  breakfast  should  not  occur  often, 
and,  to  be  safe,  not  much  besides  fruit  and  salad  should 
be  eaten  for  the  other  two  meals.  Reference  is  made  to 
the  ordinary  sausage,  which  is  largely  fat.  Sausage  of 
any  kind  that  carries  a  large  amount  of  lean  meat,  such 
as  Frankfort  or  pork  sausage  that  is  made  from  lean 
meat,  is  not  to  be  eaten  with  decidedly  starchy  foods; 
hence  these  lean  sausages  should  be  used  in  dinners  with 
cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables  and  a  combination  salad 
— never  for  breakfast  with  corn  bread,  whole-wheat 
bread,  or  potatoes. 

Dried  and  Smoked  Sausage — such  as  is  frequently  im- 
ported— may  be  eaten  without  harm;  yet  there  is  a  chance 
of  its  causing  death  from  ptomaine  poisoning.  I  do  not 
recommend  any  domestic  or  imported  meats  that  are  to 
be  eaten  raw.  Deaths  do  occur  from  such  food,  and  no 
doubt  many  times  without  the  knowledge  of  anyone,  on 
account  of  the  obscurity  of  the  symptoms. 

Combinations. — Bacon  broiled,  and  served  with  soft- 
boiled  eggs  or  poached  eggs,  and  either  white-flour  bis- 
cuit or  rice,  makes  a  strong  breakfast — one  that  should 
not  be  eaten  by  those  who  do  not  have  a  high  standard 
of  health.  Bacon,  biscuit  or  toast,  with  fresh,  uncooked 
fruit,  is  a  very  good  breakfast  for  winter,  but  too  heating 
for  summer. 

Where  people  are  caught  away  from  home  and  are 
compelled  to  take  what  they  can  get,  they  may  indulge 
in  this  kind  of  eating  for  breakfast;  but  it  should  not  be 


Meat 


151 


repeated  very  often,  as  it  will  bring  on  digestive  derange- 
ments— engorgement  of  the  liver,  etc. — and  develop  in 
time  such  diseases  as  come  under  the  head  of  acidosis. 

What  harm  is  there  in  the  above  combination  for 
breakfast?  Bread  may  be  served  with  the  bacon,  but 
not  with  ham  and  eggs,  nor  with  bacon  and  eggs;  for 
such  meals  put  too  heavy  a  tax  on  the  digestion.  Indeed, 
no  breakfast,  or  one  of  fruit,  is  all  that  is  needed — and 
it  should  become  the  custom.  White-flour  bread,  or  rice, 
is  much  easier  to  digest  than  whole-wheat  bread.  Those 
who  feel  heavy  and  dull  after  ten  o'clock  each  forenoon 
should  not  eat  eggs  or  meat  for  breakfast. 

Bacon,  being  almost  exclusively  fat,  may  be  used 
where  butter  would  be  used.  It  should  not  be  recognized 
as  a  proteid  food ;  hence  there  is  no  reason  why  it  cannot 
be  eaten  with  any  kind  of  starch — bread  or  food  made 
from  grain. 

Pig's  Feet,  Head-Cheese,  and  Pickled  Pork. — These 
may  be  eaten  in  about  the  combinations  that  have  been 
recommended  for  other  meat  meals. 

Pork  and  Kraut. — Cook  the  meat  and  kraut  sep- 
arately, and  eat  all  desired;  but  it  is  better  not  to  mix 
bread  with  this  meal.  A  person  of  strong  digestion  and 
good  health  may  have  roast  or  stewed  pork,  kraut,  and 
corn  bread — the  Johnny-cake  variety.  This  is  strong 
food  and  should  not  be  eaten  often — not  even  by  those 
following  an  active  life  out  in  the  open  air. 


152  Food 


VEAL 


Food  Materials 
(as  Purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

21.3 
14.2 
3.4 
24.5 

20.7 

52.0 
60.1 
68.3 
54.2 

56.2 

15.4 
15.5 
20.1 
15.1 

16.2 

11.0 
7.9 
7.5 
6.0 

6.6 

0.8 
0.9 
1.0 
0.7 

0.8 

745 
625 
695 
535 

580 

Hind  quarter,  without  tal- 

"Bob  Veal." — This  is  an  immature  meat  from  calves 
less  than  two  or  three  weeks  old.  This  meat  is  not  recom- 
mended. 

Veal  should  be  from  a  calf  at  least  a  year  old.  When 
it  is,  it  is  fit  as  a  food.  "Bob  veal"  is  indigestible,  and  en- 
tirely unfit  for  people  who  have  stomach  derangement. 

Veal  from  an  animal  sufficiently  matured  is  tender, 
digestible,  and,  when  cooked  well,  is  a  meat  that  is 
pleasant  to  eat.  Its  flavor  is  unlike  that  of  beef;  it  con- 
tains more  gelatin. 


MUTTON 


Food  Materials 
(as  Purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

Flank  

9.9 
18.4 
16.0 
21.2 

17.2 

39.0 
51.2 
42.0 
41.6 

45.4 

13.8 
15.1 
13.5 
12.3 

13.8 

36.9 
14.7 
28.3 
24.5 

23.2 

0.6 
0.8 
0.7 
0.7 

0.7 

1770 
890 
1415 
1235 

1210 

Leg,  hind  

Hind  quarter,  without  tal- 

The  English  mutton  chops  are  world-famous.  Ameri- 
cans are  fast  getting  on  to  the  proper  way  of  preparing 
a  mutton  chop. 

Mutton  is  considered  by  English  writers  to  be  more 
digestible  than  beef — probably  because  in  England  the 


Meat 


153 


average  mutton  is  more  tender  than  that  obtained  in  the 
United  States.  The  English  beef,  however,  is  inferior  to 
that  raised  in  this  country.  The  fiber  of  mutton  is  finer, 
and  it  contains  more  fat,  than  beef.  Mutton  fat  contains 
a  larger  proportion  of  glycerids,  or  stearic  acid,  which 
makes  it  more  solid  and  less  digestible  than  the  fat  of 
beef. 


LAMB 


Food  Materials 
(as  Purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

19.1 
17.4 

45.5 
52.9 

15.4 
15.9 

19.1 
13.6 

0.8 
0.9 

1075 
860 

Lamb,  when  of  the  right  age  and  tenderness,  is  as 
digestible  as  beef  or  mutton,  but  it  contains  entirely  too 
much  fat. 

Combinations. — A  meal  of  lamb  or  mutton  should 
consist  of  the  meat,  green  peas  (canned  if  fresh  cannot 
be  had),  and  any  other  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetable 
desired;  also  a  combination  salad  of  lettuce  (fine  head 
lettuce  when  possible),  fresh  tomatoes  (canned  when 
fresh  cannot  be  had),  and  celery  or  cucumbers — the 
latter  vegetable  in  the  summer  time.  If  desired,  a  small 
amount  of  onion  may  be  used  for  flavoring.  Dress  with 
salt,  olive  oil,  and  lemon  juice.  If  prime  salad  material 
cannot  be  had,  then  grapefruit,  without  sugar,  should  be 
eaten  instead.  If  grapefruit  cannot  be  had,  then  orange 
and  lemon,  or  orange  and  apple,  salad. 

Prepare  and  slice  the  oranges;  then  add  enough  lemon 
juice  to  give  the  fruit  salad  the  desired  acidity.  Salads 
should  be  eaten  with  the  meat.  Tart  jellies  or  fruit 
sauces  may  be  used  with  meat.  People  in  good  health 
may  have  pickles,  and  they  may  use  apple  vinegar  on 
their  vegetable  salad.     Positively  no  decidedly  starchy 


1 54  Food 

food  should  be  eaten  with  such  a  meal  as  suggested  above 
— no  bread,  potatoes,  rice,  dry  beans  or  peas;  no  pud- 
dings containing  starch. 

Desserts  should  be:  prune-whip,  fruit,  or  fruit  gelatin. 


POULTRY 


Food  Materials 
(as  Purchased) 

Refuse 

Water 

Pro- 
tein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

41.6 
25.9 
17.6 
22.7 

43.7 
27.1 
38.5 
42.4 

12.8 
13.7 
13.4 
16.1 

1.4 
12.3 
29.8 
18.4 

0.7 
0.7 
0.7 
0.8 

305 
765 
1475 
1060 

Fowls  

Chicken  is  one  of  the  most  digestible  of  meats  when 
properly  served. 

Danger  of  Ptomaine  Poisoning. — On  account  of  the 
selfish,  commercialized  spirit  of  this  age,  it  is  almost  im- 
possible to  avoid  being  poisoned  one  or  more  times  every 
year  by  unfit  poultry. 

When  poultry  is  bought  alive  in  the  open  market, 
there  is  no  way  of  knowing  whether  or  not  is  has  served 
a  life  sentence  in  some  poultry  penitentiary;  neither  is 
there  any  way  of  knowing,  if  dead  and  dressed,  how  long 
it  has  been  confined  in  purgatory  before  it  has  been 
brought  out  as  a  candidate  for  benevolent  assimilation — 
before  its  human  or  other  reincarnation. 

If  beeves,  hogs,  and  sheep  were  dressed  as  poultry  is 
dressed,  or  rather  not  dressed — namely,  placed  in  cold 
storage  with  entrails  intact — there  would  be  so  much  poi- 
soning that  all  people  would  turn  against  eating  meat. 

Poultry  is  kept  for  weeks,  months,  and  even  years,  in 
cold  storage  with  entrails  undisturbed;  and  we  are  told 
by  poultry  butchers,  indorsed  by  the  pure-food  laws, 
that  this  style  of  dressing  is  correct.  If  it  is,  why  not 
prepare  all  carcasses  in  the  same  way? 


Meat 


155 


Why  did  not  the  Egyptians  adopt  this  easy  way  of 
embalming? 

The  ancient  method  was  to  remove  the  intestines  and 
brains,  and  fill  the  cavities  with  a  mixture  of  balsamic 
herbs,  myrrh,  etc.  The  arteries  and  other  vessels  were 
injected  with  balsams.  This  method  of  securing  immor- 
tality was  known  six  thousand  years  ago ;  yet  we  moderns 
cannot  embalm  our  food,  and  insure  that  it  will  not 
poison  us,  after  a  week  or  month  of  preservation. 

It  is  said  that  the  Egyptians  were  so  successful  in 
this  art  that,  after  two  or  three  thousand  years,  the  soles  of 
the  feet  were  still  elastic  and  soft  to  the  touch. 

The  people  should  boycott  the  trade;  they  should 
refuse  to  buy  undrawn  fowls — refuse  to  buy  cold-storage 
fowls  that  have  been  dressed  in  this  way. 

Up  to  the  time  the  above  was  written  it  had  been  our 
misfortune  to  know  of  only  a  nasty,  sloppy  (ice-and- 
water)  manner  of  caring  for  poultry;  but  we  are  happy 
to  say  that  there  is  a  correct  way.  The  following  was 
read  at  one  of  our  clinics  by  Miss  Seymoure,  of  Topeka, 
Kansas,  who  is  one  of  the  partners  in  a  large  plant  for 
taking  care  of  poultry: 

Dr.  Tilden,  you  have  not  seen  the  best  cold-storage  poul- 
try. Allow  me  to  call  your  attention  to  first-class  work  in 
this  line,  and  I  know  you  will  change  your  mind  about  all 
cold  storage  being  bad. 

There  is  a  large  supply  of  good  poultry  delivered  to  the 
consumer,  both  drawn  and  undrawn. 

Poultry,  when  drawn,  should  be  delivered  to  the  consumer 
promptly,  for  the  reason  that  after  twenty-four  hours  or 
more  it  begins  to  mold  on  the  inside;  for,  with  only  one  open- 
ing, there  is  no  circulation  of  air. 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  poultry  is  dressed  and 
handled  by  a  large  number  under  all  kinds  of  conditions. 

There  are  innumerable  packers,  and  a  large  number  of 
them  without  the  facilities  for  handling  properly.  They  have 
no  equipment  or  cooling-rooms.  These  concerns  usually  scald 
their  poultry,  cool  it  in  ice-water,  and  ship  it  packed  in  ice. 


156 


Food 


The  fact  is  well  known,  and  backed  by  government  Investiga- 
tion, that  scalded  poultry  (and,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  the  kind 
which  furnishes  the  greater  part  of  Denver  trade)  deteriorates 
very  rapidly.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  the  tissue  is  de- 
stroyed through  scalding,  decomposition  sets  in  much  more 
quickly,  and  it  reaches  the  point  of  unwholesomeness  in  a 
much  shorter  period  than  when  dry-picked,  dry-cooled,  etc. 

Just  imagine  a  bird  scalded,  cooled  in  water,  and  packed 
in  ice;  drawn  by  people  who  are  not  very  careful  in  doing  the 
work,  and  very  liable  to  break  the  intestine,  thus  allowing 
the  fecal  matter  to  come  in  contact  with  the  flesh  of  the  bird, 
and  allowed  to  remain  there  some  time  before  being  delivered 
in  Denver — and  you  can  see  just  what  might  happen  to  that 
consumer.  As  you  say,  Dr.  Tilden,  it  would  be  a  flirtation 
with  sickness  and  death  to  eat  such  a  bird. 

I  will  now  try  to  tell  you  how  poultry  is  handled  by 
poultry-packers  with  well-equipped  plants,  and  endeavor  to 
prove  to  you  why  their  products  have  the  reputation  of  being 
superior  to  others. 

At  such  plants,  poultry  is  kept  off  food  for  about  twenty- 
four  hours  before  being  killed.  It  is  then  dry-picked,  and 
thereafter  dry-cooled  at  a  temperature  of  about  thirty-five 
degrees  Fahrenheit  for  twenty-four  hours  before  it  is  packed 
in  boxes  properly  graded  as  to  size,  quality,  and  kind,  each 
bird  being  wrapped  in  parchment  paper  and  packed  one  dozen 
to  the  box. 

The  fowls  are  then  either  shipped  at  once  in  iced  and 
salted  refrigerator  cars,  or  placed  in  storage  at  a  temperature 
of  five  degrees  below  zero,  where  they  become  frozen  solid 
in  about  forty-eight  hours.  And  after  six  months  in  storage, 
I  will  wager  that  even  Dr.  Tilden  would  be  compelled  to  admit 
that  they  are  better  as  food  than  those  described  above,  which 
furnish  so  large  a  part  of  Denver  trade — I  mean  those  scalded, 
shipped,  and  delivered  to  the  consumer  within  seven  days. 

The  whole  problem  is  one  of  handling  properly,  with  the 
proper  equipment;  and  this  applies  to  all  food  products. 

The  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture  has  in  the 
last  few  years  made  all  kinds  of  investigations  with  poultry 
products,  in  order  to  ascertain  through  experiments  the  true 
facts  in  regard  to  both  drawn  and  undrawn  poultry.  They 
have  packed  and  frozen  both  kinds,  and  subjected  them  to 
exactly  the  same  conditions  as  to  sending  by  express  or  freight 
shipment,  with  or  without  refrigeration;  and  they  have  found 


Meat 


157 


in  every  instance  that  the  undrawn  has  arrived  in  more  fit 
condition  for  food  than  the  drawn,  thus  proving  that  the 
drawing  of  poultry  causes  it  to  deteriorate  more  rapidly. 

The  entrails  are  incased  in  a  practically  bacteria-proof 
sac,  and  if  that  sac  is  left  undisturbed,  and  the  poultry  prop- 
erly handled,  allowing  all  animal  heat  to  chill  out  before 
being  wrapped  and  packed,  the  keeping  qualities  are  far  better 
than  when  the  bird  is  drawn  and  that  sac  broken. 

It  has  also  been  proved  that  the  drawn  poultry,  even 
when  frozen  hard,  will  not  hold  the  full  flavor  that  undrawn 
poultry  does — the  cavity  becoming  moldy  when  drawn. 

The  government  has  made  such  thorough  investigation 
along  this  line,  employing  the  best  talent  from  all  parts  of 
the  country,  and  results  have  been  so  evident,  that  several 
states  which  had  previously  passed  laws  prohibiting  the  sale 
of  undrawn  poultry  have  repealed  those  laws. 

In  making  these  tests,  the  government  has  used  products 
from  plants  that  are  properly  equipped  and  have  kept  their 
standard  for  superiority  by  meeting  every  requirement  neces- 
sary to  keep  up  the  reputation  gained.  I  think  I  have  now 
shown  that  the  superior  product  is  the  result  of  proper 
handling,  together  with  the  proper  equipment. 

Canned  Meats. — The  canning  of  meat  has  become 
so  extensive  that  those  who  are  wise  will  not  order 
chicken,  turkey,  veal  cutlets,  and  many  other  articles  of 
food  at  restaurants  or  on  dining-cars.  There  is  not  much 
choice  between  the  sloppy  cold-storage  fowl  and  the 
canned  fowl.  Both  are  too  often  questionable  eating,  and 
those  who  indulge  are  flirting  with  sickness  and  death. 
The  pure-food  laws  are  for  the  protection  of  the  people 
against  unscrupulous  food  manufacturers  and  dealers,  but 
it  is  difficult  to  watch  the  commercial  spirit  when  it  is 
bent  on  profit. 

Steak  is  about  the  only  meat  that  can  be  ordered  on 
the  dining-cars  these  days,  with  a  reasonable  hope  that 
the  meat  will  not  come  out  of  a  can. 

The  turkey  ordered  under  such  circumstances  i3  an 
embalmed  product,  of  a  much  more  recent  age  than 
the  Egyptian  mummies;  which,  it  must  be  acknowledged, 


158 


Food 


is  a  questionable  compliment  to  the  turkey,  from  a  dietary 
standpoint,  since  the  Egyptian  product  has  outlived  all 
septic  change,  whereas  the  modern  embalming  methods 
do  not  insure  against  the  poison  that  must  develop  some 
time  in  all  meat,  canned  or  kept  in  storage — undressed. 
Now  that  correctly  dressed  poultry  may  be  had,  the 
people  should  demand  it. 

Spring  Chicken,  or  Broilers. — This  is  a  favorite  meat. 
An  expert  housewife  can  fry  chicken  to  tempt  even  a 
jaded  appetite.  Fried-chicken  dinners  are  well  known 
and  popular,  but  often  too  stimulating.  The  simple  cook- 
ing of  chicken  is  best.  The  only  reason  why  people  con- 
tinue to  mix  starches,  meats,  fats,  and  acids  indiscrimi- 
nately in  cooking  and  eating  is  because  the  mixtures  do 
not  kill  instantly,  as  do  well-directed  Gatling  guns.  The 
average  human  mind  cannot  associate  thunder  with  light- 
ning, if  the  flash  and  the  noise  are  too  far  apart.  The 
child-mind  must  see  effect  follow  cause  very  soon,  or  it 
fails  to  associate  the  two. 

When  thirst  follows  a  meal,  it  will  not  be  recognized 
as  coming  from  irritation  of  the  stomach  from  overstimu- 
lation, from  too  much  rich  dressing,  condiments,  etc. 
When  the  thirst  has  been  satisfied  with  cold  water  two 
or  three  times,  the  acid  stomach  that  follows  will  not  be 
associated  with,  or  recognized  as  the  result  of,  mixing 
meats,  acids,  and  starches  together,  and  then  preventing 
their  digestion  by  chilling  the  stomach  with  frequent 
drinks  of  cold  water.  The  headache  that  follows  the  acid 
stomach,  the  thirst,  the  indigestion,  and  the  acidity,  will 
not  be  associated  with  the  hodgepodge  mixture  eaten  at 
the  meal.  The  gastric  ulcer  or  cancer  that  develops  as 
a  result  of  ten,  twenty,  or  thirty  years  of  such  eating 
habits  will  never  be  associated,  in  the  victim's  mind,  with 
the  legitimate  working-out  of  the  law  of  cause  and  effect 
from  his  wrong  eating. 


Meat 


15* 


Most  minds  can  trace  cause  to  effect  when  the  opera- 
tions are  as  pronounced  as  being  killed  by  a  gun,  auto- 
mobile, a  dose  of  carbolic  acid,  opium,  morphine,  or 
falling  from  an  aeroplane;  but  the  subtle  effects  of  coffee, 
tea,  starch,  sweets,  and  acids;  the  use  of  tobacco  or  alco- 
hol; overeating  or  overstimulation  of  the  emotions;  the 
cultivation  of  jealousy,  anger,  envy,  and  spite,  are  not 
considered  or  thought  of  as  so  many  causes  of  sickness 
which,  if  not  removed,  will  continue  to  build  disease  until 
the  victim  is  killed.  Doctors  with  long  titles  give  drugs 
and  perform  surgical  operations  in  an  endeavor  to  get 
rid  of  diseases  caused  by  the  continuous  action  of  the 
above-named  unrecognized  causes. 

Enlarged  tonsils,  as  an  example,  are  caused  by  an 
acid  stomach,  and  the  acid  stomach  is  kept  in  existence 
by  eating  improperly  prepared  and  mixed  foods.  But 
this  little  fact,  that  can  be  proved  any  day,  will  not  suc- 
ceed in  gaining  entrance  to  the  mental  dome  carapaced 
by  too  many  titles. 

Meat  should  not  be  eaten  with  starch.  The  least 
offensive  of  such  mixtures  is  that  of  meat  and  potatoes. 

Should  meat  and  starch  never  be  eaten  at  the  same 
meal? 

Fanaticism  should  be  avoided.  A  cause  is  never  bene- 
fited by  unreasonable  advocates.  It  is  everyone's  duty 
to  have  the  courage  of  his  convictions;  but  it  is  not 
courageous — indeed,  it  is  ill-bred — to  sit  down  at  a 
friend's  table  and  deliver  a  homily  on  proper  food  com- 
binations, and  critically  select  and  refuse,  causing  the 
host  embarrassment. 

Eat  what  is  offered,  and  think  nothing  about  it,  un- 
less sick  or  uncomfortable;  then  do  not  eat.  No  one 
should  eat  when  sick — no,  not  to  please  anyone. 

The  difference  between  small  minds  and  large  minds 
will  be  seen  in  the  manner  of  adopting  suggestions.  The 
small  mind  will  not  eat  starch  and  meat  under  any  cir- 


160 


Food 


cumstances.  If  invited  to  eat  with  a  friend,  and  the 
friend  has  nothing  besides  meat  and  bread,  or  meat  and 
potatoes,  the  baby-mind — the  small,  fanatical  mind — 
will  ruin  the  visit,  and  cause  the  friend  to  feel  humiliated 
and  chagrined,  by  delivering  a  homily  on  the  evils  of  eat- 
ing bread  and  meat  together.  The  fact  that  the  friend 
eats,  and  apparently  thrives  on,  meat  and  bread  makes 
no  difference  with  the  one-idea  fanatic — no,  indeed! 
Such  eating  is  fraught  with  dire  consequences,  and  he 
would  not  think  of  eating  such  a  mixture  any  more  than 
he  would  take  poison.  The  fanatic  cannot  realize  that 
there  is  a  great  difference  between  eating  improperly  occa- 
sionally and  eating  wrongly  all  the  time.  An  occasional 
drink  does  not  make  a  drunkard.  An  occasional  indi- 
gestion in  a  child  does  not  build  tonsilitis.  Errors  of 
body  and  mind  must  be  practiced  daily  to  become  dis- 
ease-building. Reading  occasionally  will  not  educate. 
Practicing  on  a  violin  occasionally  does  not  build  a  skilled 
player;  it  takes  the  labor  of  six  or  ten  hours  a  day  to 
build  a  virtuoso. 

There  is  a  good  way  to  live  and  there  is  a  best  way 
to  live.  If  one  would  get  the  best — bring  out  the  best 
mental  and  physical  tones  of  mind  and  body — he  must 
live  in  such  a  way  as  to  bring  the  best  development.  It 
is  all  a  question  of  efficiency.  Do  you  want  the  best? 
Then  take  only  the  best.  There  are  a  great  variety  of 
minds  and  bodies — a  great  many  degrees  of  attainment 
— in  that  vast  space  existing  between  no  development 
and  the  highest  development.  Our  bodies  are  made  from 
the  food  we  eat  and  the  thoughts  we  think. 

GAME 

The  meat  of  young  pigeons  is  especially  digestible; 
that  of  ducks  and  geese  contains  too  much  fat.  The  flesh 
of  game  is  easily  digested.  When  young,  rabbit  meat  is 
quite  digestible,  but  it  is  usually  omitted  from  diet  lists. 


Animal  Viscera  and  Venison  161 
ANIMAL  VISCERA 


COMPOSITION  OF  ANIMAL  VISCERA 


Water 

Nitro- 
genous 
Matter 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

61  2 

69.5 
70.9 
74.6 
63.8 
80.6 

23.1 
17.0 
16.8 
16.4 
17.1 
8.8 

9.0 
12.6 
12.1 
18.5 
18.1 

9.3 

5.0 

1.70 
0.90 
1.60 
0.50 
1.00 
1.10 

Animal  viscera  are  not  so  nutritious,  although  some 
of  them  are  quite  as  digestible,  as  most  meat.  Tripe, 
liver,  kidney,  and  brains  are  eaten  very  extensively.  The 
heart  is  tough,  indigestible,  and  but  seldom  eaten.  The 
blood  of  the  pig  has  been  made  into  a  form  of  pudding 
and  is  relished  by  some.  Sweetbreads — either  the  pan- 
creas or  the  thymus  gland  of  the  calf — are  easily  di- 
gested. 

VENISON 

Venison  is  kept  moist  when  cooked  in  a  jacket.  All 
meats  have  a  better  flavor  when  cooked  in  this  manner. 
Venison,  when  from  a  young  animal,  is  tender.  This 
meat  is  considered  difficult  of  digestion.  Because  of  its 
highly  stimulating  action,  it  is  not  the  meat  for  dyspeptics 
and  those  with  complaining  stomachs. 

Wild  meats  generally  are  thought  to  be  more  difficult 
of  digestion.  No  doubt  all  wild  meat  is  more  stimulat- 
ing, because  of  the  greater  health  and  activity  of  undo- 
mesticated  animals.  The  breast  of  the  prairie  chicken 
and  that  of  the  domestic  hen  represent  the  extremes  of 
these  two  types.  The  breast  meat  of  the  wild  chicken 
is  very  dark  and  very  rich  in  nutritive  properties,  while 
that  of  the  domestic  fowl  is  white  and  possessed  of  little 
real  nutritive  value.    The  dark  meat  is  nutritive  in  keep- 


162 


Food 


ing  with  the  color — the  darker,  the  richer  in  food  value. 
The  round  steak  is  ten  to  twenty  per  cent  more  nutritious 
than  the  loin.  Those  who  think  they  are  unfortunate  in 
being  compelled  to  buy  cheap  cuts  of  meat  are  really 
getting  the  best  of  the  bargain. 

FISH 

Fish  vary  greatly  in  their  nutritive  and  digestive  prop- 
erties. The  flounder,  bass,  and  cod,  as  also  the  oyster, 
are  much  easier  of  digestion  than  fish  containing  more 
fat,  like  the  Spanish  mackerel,  herring,  eel,  butterfish, 
and  salmon.    White-fleshed  fish  contain  little  fat. 

Fish  out  of  season  lose  flavor  and  are  not  so  nutri- 
tious. Just  before  spawning  they  are  most  valuable  as  a 
food;  after  this  season  they  are  thin  and  not  fit  for  food. 

Fish  take  on  decomposition  rapidly,  hence  should  be 
eaten  in  as  fresh  a  state  as  possible. 

Fish  are  preserved  in  several  ways.  Canning  is  one 
of  the  popular  ways.  Drying,  smoking,  pickling,  and 
salting  are  practiced  on  a  large  scale. 

There  are  several  varieties  of  fish  that  are  poisonous. 
They  are  found  mostly  in  tropical  waters. 

Fish  is  about  the  sole  animal  food  of  certain 
people,  called  ichthyophagists.  The  Latin  and  Saxon  races 
consume  a  relatively  small  amount  of  fish,  compared  with 
the  people  of  the  north  of  Europe  and  Asia.  The  Chinese 
and  Japanese  eat  very  little  butcher's  meat.  Fish  with 
rice,  and  sometimes  a  little  pork  and  poultry,  make  up 
the  basis  of  their  food  supply. 

The  flesh  of  fish  is  less  nutritive  than  that  of  land 
animals.  It  is  not  stimulating — has  less  strength-building 
power — and  is  not  eaten  with  the  same  relish  as  other 
animal  foods.  Even  those  who  believe  themselves  fond 
of  fish  do  not  eat  it  much  oftener  than  once  a  week  when 
situated  where  this  food  can  be  procured  fresh  every  day. 
It  is  said  to  be  aphrodisiac;  which  would  indicate  that, 


Fish 


163 


as  a  food,  it  supplies  nerve  and  brain  energy  of  a  char- 
acter favoring  reproduction.  If  this  can  be  shown  to  be 
true,  a  fish  diet  might  be  recommended  to  those  races 
that  are  dying  out — possibly  a  diet  that  will  antidote 
race-suicide.  Certainly  the  nations  that  consume  the 
greatest  amount  of  fish  propagate  more  rapidly.  But,  of 
course,  there  are  other  causative  factors. 

It  is  recorded  in  medical  literature  that  the  eating  of 
fish  causes  nettle-rash  and  eczema,  and  that  fish  is  not 
satisfactory  as  a  food  when  used  by  rheumatic  and  gouty 
subjects,  or  by  those  suffering  from  kidney  or  bladder 
affections.  The  reason  for  the  ill  effects  charged  to  the 
eating  of  fish  is  that  fish  is  always  eaten  with  bread,  rice, 
or  potatoes,  and  the  real  cause  is  the  combination  rather 
than  the  fish. 

Combinations. — With  the  exception  of  eel  and  sal- 
mon, and  a  few  other  fat  fish,  this  flesh  is  easier  to  digest 
than  the  ordinary  meats  and  fowl  of  our  markets.  It 
should  not  be  eaten  with  starch,  but  as  I  recommend  for 
meats;  namely,  with  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables  and 
salad;  or  fish  and  fruit,  leaving  out  sugar.  A  very  good 
reason  for  not  eating  fish,  bread,  potatoes,  butter,  oil,  and 
sugar  together,  is  that  they  are  all  carbonaceous,  and, 
when  eaten  in  too  great  quantities,  create  either  lung  or 
liver  disease,  or  both. 

Will  eating  fish  and  starch  kill  instanter?  The  most 
stupid  can  answer:  No,  it  will  not!  The  harm  coming 
from  such  eating  must  be  looked  for  in  intellectuality, 
race  changes,  and  in  so-called  climatic  diseases. 

If  one  country  is  more  stupid  than  another,  or  more 
psychic,  the  cause  must  be  looked  for  in  that  country's 
diet,  rather  than  in  its  climate.  However,  climate  is  a 
factor,  and  should  not  be  left  out  of  the  calculation. 
Only  the  p  hilosophic  mind  can  deal  with  questions  that 
are  epoch-making.  The  only  way  to  learn  of  the  racial 
influence  of  food  is  to  examine  the  peoples  and  note  the 


164 


Food 


anatomical  and  physiological  differences  between  those 
countries  whose  people  eat  a  different  diet. 

Fish  fat  is  not  so  easy  to  digest  as  the  fat  from  other 
animals;  hence,  when  possible  to  procure  fish,  always 
select  a  variety  that  is  not  fat,  and  eat  only  vegetables 
or  fruit  with  it.  If  the  fish  is  fat — of  the  mackerel  or 
salmon  variety — do  not  use  butter  as  a  dressing.  Much 
depends  upon  the  cooking.  If  cooked  properly,  prac- 
tically no  dressing  beyond  a  little  salt  and  lemon  is  re- 
quired. 

The  accompanying  tables  are  by  Langworthy. 
Those  who  live  near  the  water  will  find  this  table 
convenient  for  reference  in  selecting  fish  food: 

COMPOSITION  OF  FISH 


Kind  of  Food 
Material 


Refuse 
(Bone, 
Skin, 
etc.) 


Salt 


Water 


Pro- 
tein 


Fat 


Car- 
bohy- 
drates 


Min- 
eral 
Mat- 
ter 


Total 
Nutri- 
ents 


Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 


Fresh  fish: 

Bass,  large-mouthed 
black,  dressed. .  . . 

Bluefish,  dressed  

Carp  (European  an- 
alysis)   

Cod,  dressed  

Eel,  Bait-water, 
dressed  

Flounder,  common, 
dressed  

Haddock,  dressed. .  . 

Halibut,  dressed.  .  . . 

Herring,  whole  

Mackerel,  dressed .  . 

Perch,  white,  dressed 

Pickerel,  whole.  . . 

Pike,  dressed  

Red  snapper,  dressed 

Salmon,  Maine, 
dressed  

Shad,  dressed  

Smelt,  whole  

Sturgeon,  dressed.  .  . 

Trout,  brook.dressed 

Trout,  lake,  dressed . 


46.7 
48.6 

37.1 
29.9 

20.2 

57.0 
51.0 
17.7 
46.0 
40.7 
54.6 
47.1 
30.5 
48.9 

23.8 
43.9 
41.9 
14.4 
37.9 
35.2 


41.9 
40.3 

48.4 
58.5 

57.2 

35.8 
40.0 
61.9 
37.3 
43.7 
34.4 
42.2 
55.4 
40.3 


51.2 
39.6 
46.1 
67.4 
48.4 
45.0 


10.3 
9.8 


12.9 
10.6 


14.6 


8 
15 
10 
11 

8 

9.8| 
13.0 


14.6 
10.3 
10.0 
15.4 
11.7 
12.4 


0.5 
0.6 

0.7 
0.2 

7.2 

0.3 
0.2 
4.4 
5.9 
3.5 
1.8 
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 

9.5 
5.4 
1.0 
1.6 
1.3 
6.6 


0.6 
0.7 

0.9 
0.8 

0.8 

0.6 
0.6 
0.9 
0.8 
0.7 
0.5 
0.7 
0.7 
0.6 

0.9 
0.8 
1.0 
1.2 
0.7 
0.8 


14.5 
11.6 

22.6 

7.2 
9.0 
20.4 
16.7 
15.6 
11.0 
10.7 
14.1 
10.8 


19.8 


215 
205 

270 
205 

575 

130 
160 
465 
435 
360 
235 
190 
260 
205 

675 
420 
230 
355 
275 
510 


Oysters 


165 


OYSTERS 


COMPOSITION  OF  MOLLUSKS,  CRUSTACEANS,  ETC. 


Refuse 

Car- 

Min- 

Total 

Fuel 

(Bone, 

TXT 

Wa- 

Pro- 

bohy- 

eral 

Nutri- 

Value 

Kind  of  Food 

Skin, 

Salt, 

ter, 

tein, 

Fat, 

drates, 

Mat- 

ents, 

per 

Material 

etc.) 

Per 

Per 

Per 

Per 

Per 

ter, 

Per 

lb., 

Per 

Ct. 

Ct. 

Ct. 

Ct. 

Ct. 

Per 

Ct. 

Calor. 

Ct. 

Ct. 

Mollusks — 

Oysters,  solid  

88.3 

6.1 

1 

4 

3.3 

0.9 

11.7 

235 

Long  clams,  in  shell 

43.6 

48.4 

4.8 

0 

6 

1.1 

1.5 

8.0 

135 

Crustaceans — 

Lobster,  in  shell. . . 
Crab,  in  shell  

62.1 

31.1 

5.5 

0 

7 

0.6 

6.8 

130 

55.8 

34.1 

7.3 

0 

9 

0.5 

1.4 

10.1 

185 

70.8 

25.4 

1 

0 

0.2 

2.6 

29.2 

520 

Terrapin,  turtle — 

Terrapin,  in  shell. . 

79.0 

15.6 

4.5 

0 

7 

0.2 

5.4 

115 

Green   turtle,  in 

shell  

76.0 

19.1 

4.5 

0 

1 

0.3 

4.9 

90 

32.0 

57.0 

10.2 

0 

1 

0.7 

11.0 

210 

Oysters  are  in  season  from  September  to  May. 

They  should  be  as  fresh  as  possible.  Many  people 
have  been  poisoned  by  eating  oysters  that  have  been  on 
the  market  too  long.  The  albumin  of  oysters  can  be 
made  hard  and  unfit  to  eat  by  wrong  cooking.  Oysters 
should  be  used  in  the  same  combinations  as  meat.  One 
of  the  worst  combinations  for  building  trouble  is  crackers 
with  oyster  stew,  or  scalloped  oysters  which  are  cooked 
with  crackers. 

OBJECTIONS  TO  MEAT-EATING 

Micro-organisms  are  said  to  find  a  hostage  in  the 
flesh  of  animals,  and,  if  not  killed  by  cooking,  they  will 
find  lodgment  in  the  human  body  and  set  up  such  diseases 
as  trichinosis,  tape-worm,  etc.  It  is  reasonable  to  believe 
that  when  man's  resistance  is  normal  his  digestive  secre- 
tions are  sufficient  protection  against  germs  and  para- 
sites. The  digestive  secretion  is  quite  powerful  enough 
to  kill  and  digest  all  life  that  is  liable  to  find  its  way  into 


166 


Food 


the  stomach.  However,  it  is  well  to  have  meat  well  and 
properly  cooked,  if  for  no  other  reason  than  for  the  sake 
of  easy  digestion. 

Perhaps  the  most-urged  objections  to  meat-eating  is 
that  it  carries  uric  acid  into  the  body — that  meat  is  a  food 
that  abounds  in  uric  acid;  that  the  acid  accumulates  when 
the  animal  fails  to  take  into  its  system  enough  oxygen 
to  oxidize  the  acid.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  man 
is  an  animal  and  is  subject  to  the  same  laws  of  metabolism 
that  obtain  in  other  animals,  and  that  he  builds  uric  acid 
in  his  system  without  the  aid  of  uric-acid-bearing  foods. 
Indeed,  any  food  combination  that  invites  fermentation 
builds  acid.  Any  act,  or  style  of  living,  that  enervates 
renders  elimination  imperfect,  and,  of  course,  causes  an 
accumulation  of  waste  products;  and  the  more  waste 
products  accumulated,  the  more  imperfect  are  digestion 
and  assimilation — metabolism. 

Uric  acid  is  said  to  create  rheumatism,  gout,  and 
other  diseases.  It  certainly  takes  a  wise  person  to  dis- 
cover which  article,  out  of  many  items  of  food  and 
drink,  is  at  fault  in  causing  an  accumulation  of  uric  acid 
or  any  other  waste  product. 

When  it  is  taken  into  consideration  that  uric  acid  in 
the  system  means  imperfect  metabolism,  and  that  vege- 
tarian animals  build  it  while  eating  a  uric-acid-free  food, 
it  is  not  well  to  dogmatize  regarding  the  particular  kinds 
of  food  that  build  it,  when,  indeed,  all  foods  do,  if  cir- 
cumstances favor.  Those  who  eat  much  meat  under  cer- 
tain environments  fail  to  produce  uric-acid  accumulation 
and  uric-acid  poisoning.  For  example:  The  hunters  and 
trappers  of  the  early  days  of  this  country  lived  largely 
on  meat — at  times  exclusively  on  meat — and  that,  too, 
without  evil  consequences. 

It  has  been  proved  that  people  who  live  out  of  doors, 
in  the  sunshine  and  fresh  air,  and  get  all  the  exercise 
necessary,  do  not  have  so-called  uric-acid  diseases.  Obvi- 


Objections  to  Meat-Eating  167 


ously,  then,  such  diseases  belong  to  the  habitues  of  hot 
houses,  a  great  variety  of  food,  and  much  clothing.  I 
have  been  teaching  for  years  that  any  influence  which 
breaks  down,  or  uses  up,  nerve  energy  causes  enervation; 
and,  when  the  body  is  enervated,  elimination  is  interfered 
with — in  fact,  inhibited.  This  causes  autotoxemia — re- 
tention not  only  of  uric  acid,  but  of  all  the  water  prod- 
ucts— and  this  becomes  the  basal  cause  of  all  diseases. 

Meat  eaten  with  bread,  rice,  or  other  starches  invites 
fermentation.  The  lower  the  resistance,  the  greater  the 
tendency  to  fermentation;  the  more  fermentation,  the 
more  acid  developed;  and  the  more  acid  developed,  the 
more  the  normal  alkalinity  of  the  blood  and  other  fluids 
of  the  body  is  reduced. 

When  the  system  becomes  acid,  or  when  the  alka- 
linity is  reduced,  such  diseases  as  rheumatism  and  gout 
develop.  It  is  believed  that  red  meat  is  especially  bad 
for  those  suffering  from  rheumatism;  but  this  is  not  true. 
Excessive  bread-  or  starch-eating,  much  sugar-  or  candy- 
eating,  or  alcohol-drinking,  will  build  more  rheumatism 
than  red,  white,  or  any  other  meat. 

One  of  the  most  foolish  and  senseless  medical  customs 
is  that  of  prescribing  white  meat,  because  it  is  supposed 
to  be  easier  of  digestion,  when  the  truth  is  just  the  re- 
verse. 

The  prescribing  of  white  meat  is  a  bad  habit,  the 
same  as  thousands  of  other  medical  habits  that  were 
started  a  long  time  ago  by  medical  men  who  are  now 
dead,  and  whose  ideas  are  dead  and  should  have  been 
interred  with  their  bones. 

Pork  has  had  to  stand  for  the  many  ills  of  man,  lo! 
these  many  years.  In  the  good  old  days,  scrofula,  all 
skin  and  mucous-membrane  diseases,  sore  and  amber- 
purging  eyes — indeed,  all  diseases  not  easily  accounted 
for — were  said  to  be  caused  by  pork.  But  now,  thanks 
to  enterprising  modern  medical  eslence,  the  honors  for 


168 


Food 


creating  all  the  rottenness  of  the  human  race  have  been 
snatched  from  his  hogship,  the  swine,  and  given  to  germs. 
Syphilis  and  tuberculosis — or  the  tubercle  bacillus  (the 
alleged  cause  of  tuberculosis)  and  treponema  pallida 
(formerly  known  as  the  spirocheta  pallida,  the  much- 
alleged  cause  of  syphilis) — carry  about  all  honors  of 
being  the  cause  of  man's  suffering.  Honors  are  divided 
between  these  two  principal  germs,  and  the  hog  is  exon- 
erated. 

How  are  we  to  know  whether  present  medical  opinion 
is  worth  more  than  that  of  the  past? 

Now  that  his  hogship  has  proved  an  alibi — proved 
that  he  was  not  present  when  decomposition  was  going 
on  in  the  past  generations  of  man — he  certainly  has  a 
right  to  demand  respectful  treatment.  And  inasmuch 
as  the  entire  medical  profession  declares  that  the  blood 
diseases  formerly  ascribed  to  pork  are  caused  by  germs, 
it  appears  to  the  writer  that  anyone  knowing  this  would 
surely  not  be  rash  enough  to  render  himself  liable  to 
prosecution  for  libel  by  bringing  forward  any  of  those 
old,  defunct  stories  about  disease  caused  by  hog  meat. 

Pork  has  been  compelled  to  stand  for  blood  derange- 
ments caused  by  vaccination,  mercurial  poisoning,  and 
much  of  the  sick-habit  built  for  patients  by  doctors.  But 
for  every  charge  of  disease  made  against  this  meat  in 
the  past  a  new  cause  has  sprung  up,  until  now  almost 
every  charge  against  the  hog  has  been  cleared  away, 
except  trichinosis — and  this  disease  is  negligible,  except 
when  the  meat  is  eaten  raw. 

Notwithstanding  that  the  hog  has  been  exonerated  of 
most  charges  of  disease-building,  I  shall  advise  readers  to 
reserve  their  pork-eating  until  cold  weather,  except  bacon, 
which  may  be  eaten  any  time  of  the  year,  but  in  great 
moderation.  Bacon  is  little  else  than  a  hydrocarbon- 
oil;  simply  a  heating  food. 


Objections  to  Meat-Eating  169 


When  digestion  is  fair  and  there  is  a  feeling  of  cold- 
ness—inability to  get  warm  and  stay  warm — bacon  or 
fresh  pork  is  indicated.  When  there  is  a  driving  desire 
for  sugar  or  candy  in  cold  weather,  a  meal  or  two  of 
pork  ribs  stewed  tender,  and  a  side  dish  of  kraut  or  salad, 
or  both,  with  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables,  preceded 
by  a  breakfast  of  whole-wheat  bread  or  corn  bread,  will 
give  the  system  all  the  heating  and  tissue-making  food 
required.  Then  the  third  meal  should  be  fruit.  The  fruit 
and  salad  will  stimulate  all  the  elimination  necessary. 

Those  who  persist  in  overeating  can  be  made  sick  by 
the  most  skilfully  selected  foods.  Nuts  may  cause  a 
rheumatic  subject  as  great  a  loss  of  time  and  as  much 
suffering  as  any  red  meat.  Good  yeast  bread,  butter, 
and  sugar  or  candy,  may  make  the  rheumatic  subject  as 
miserable  as  any  line  of  eating.  Food  does  not  enter  the 
system  (I  do  not  mean  stomach,  for  food  in  the  stomach 
is  still  on  the  outside  of  the  body)  as  pork,  beef,  bread, 
cheese,  etc.,  but  as  elements  after  stomach  and  bowel 
analysis. 


CHAPTER  IV 


VEGETABLE  FOODS 

N  SPEAKING  of  vegetable  foods,  it  should 
be  remembered  that  such  foods  as  dry  beans 
and  peas,  wheat,  rice,  nuts,  etc.,  are  included, 
as  well  as  the  green  vegetables.  Vegetable 
foods  differ  from  animal  foods  especially  in 
that  they  contain  a  large  proportion  of  starch 
and  sugar,  and  a  comparatively  small 
amount  of  protein. 

The  following  table  shows  the  difference  between 
vegetable  and  animal  foods  in  this  regard: 


Nitrogenous 
Constituents, 
Per  Cent 

Fat, 
Per  Cent 

Carbohydrates, 
Per  Cent 

Salts, 
Per  Cent 

Fat  beef  

51.4 
89.4 
27.3 
16.6 
7.7 

45.6 
5.5 
0.8 
0.9 
0.4 

3.0 
5.1 
3.0 
0.6 
0.7 

68.9 
81.9 
91.2 

Vegetables  do,  however,  contain  a  certain  amount 
of  proteins  and  fats.  Some  are  rich  in  proteins,  such  as 
dry  beans  and  peas,  and  nuts  contain  a  great  deal  of  fat. 

Carbohydrates  in  Vegetables. — These  are  starches 
and  sugars.  Starch  is  found  in  all  plants.  Hie  starch 
molecules  in  vegetables  are  held  together  by  a  cellular 
frame. 

Proteins  in  Vegetables. — Among  the  various  proteins 
in  vegetables  is  gluten,  as  found  especially  in  flour,  beans, 
and  peas.    Vegetable  protein  is  found  in  vegetable  juices. 

Fats  in  Vegetables. — Fats  found  in  vegetables  are 
usually  in  the  form  of  oil.    Vegetables  contain  a  consid- 


Classification  of  Vegetable  Foods 


17! 


erable  amount  of  water  and  salt.  Water  amounts  to  from 
seventy  to  ninety  per  cent,  and  sometimes  even  more,  in 
fresh  vegetables.  The  mineral  constituents  are  the  salts 
of  potash,  soda,  lime,  magnesia,  and  others.  The  most 
important  is  that  of  potash;  for  it  helps  maintain  the 
alkalinity  of  the  fluids  of  the  body. 


CLASSIFICATION  OF  VEGETABLE  FOODS 


Non-starchy  Vegetables. — Beets,  turnips,  carrots,  pars- 
nips, summer  squash,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  Brussels 
sprouts,  green  corn,  green  peas,  string-beans,  asparagus, 
onions,  egg-plant,  salsify,  okra,  kohlrabi,  endive,  lettuce, 
tomatoes,  cucumbers,  celery,  chard,  spinach,  dandelion, 
and  all  plants  used  as  greens. 

The  use  of  the  word  "non-starchy**  is  purely  arbi- 
trary; for  there  is  starch  in  all  vegetables,  but  it  exists 
in  relatively  small  proportions  in  the  so-called  non-starchy 
vegetables. 

Decidedly  Starchy  Foods. — Every  preparation  made 
from  the  grains — wheat,  rye,  oats,  barley,  corn,  rice — 
also  the  Irish  and  sweet  potato,  dry  beans  and  peas, 
tapioca,  sago,  peanuts,  chestnuts,  bananas,  Hubbard 
squash,  and  pumpkin.  The  last  three  items  listed  have  a 
decided  tendency  to  ferment.  Those  who  are  troubled 
with  souring  of  the  stomach  should  not  eat  them. 


Of  this  class  of  foods,  those  in  daily  use  are  wheat, 
corn,  rye,  oats,  barley,  rice,  and  buckwheat.  They  are 
usually  eaten  after  being  ground  into  flour  or  meal.  Flour 
is  usually  made  from  wheat  and  rye.    Corn  and  oats  are 


1.  Cereals 

2.  Legumes 

3.  Roots  and  tubers 

4.  Green  vegetables 


5.  Fruits 

e.  Nuts 

7.  Fungi 


8.  Lichens 


CEREALS 


172 


Food 


usually  ground  into  meal, 
in  the  form  of  hominy. 


A  great  deal  of  corn  is  eaten 


Barley  

Buckwheat  . . . 
Corn  (maize) . 
Kaffir  corn. . .  . 

Oats  

Rice  

Rye  

Wheat  

Oatmeal  

Boiled  oatmeal 


Water, 
Per  Ct. 


10.9 
12.6 

9.3 
16.8 
11.0 
12.4 
11.6 
10.4 

7.3 
84.5 


Protein, 
Per  Ct. 


12.4 
10.0 

9.9 

6.6 
11.8 

7.4 
10.6 
12.5 
16.1 

2.8 


Fat, 
Per  Ct. 


1.8 
2.2 
2.8 
3.8 
5.0 
0.4 
1.7 
2.2 


Carbohydrates 


Starch, 

etc., 
Per  Ct. 


69.8 
64.5 
74.9 
69.5 
59.7 
79.2 
72.0 
71.2 
67.5 
11.5 


Crude 
Fiber, 
Per  Ct. 


2.7 
8.7 
1.4 
1.1 
9.5 
0.2 
1.7 
1.8 


Ash, 
Per  Ct. 


From  the  above  table  it  will  be  seen  that  the  cereals 
contain  some  protein,  but  that  they  contain  a  greater 
percentage  of  starch.  These  are  the  foods  needed  by 
children  for  building,  but  which  after  middle  life  should 
not  be  eaten  oftener  than  once  a  day. 

Breakfast  Cereals. — There  are  a  great  variety  of 
cereals  on  the  market — many  more  than  need  be — and 
they  are  too  expensive,  especially  for  poor  people. 

The  palate-pleasing  ways  of  getting  up  already- 
cooked  cereals  compel  a  large  trade  in  these  goods,  even 
at  extravagant  prices.  So  far  as  their  superiority  over 
home-prepared  cereals  is  concerned,  there  is  room  for 
doubt.  The  dry,  ready-to-eat  cereals  would  have  some 
advantage  over  the  home-prepared  if  they  were  eaten 
dry;  but  they  are  not.  Milk,  or  cream,  and  sugar  are 
used,  and  the  mixture  is  bolted,  giving  no  time  for  mix- 
ing the  food  with  the  saliva.  Toasted  bread  and  cooked 
flaked  cereals  have  the  starch  more  or  less  dextrinized; 
and  if  the  process  of  preparation  does  not  bring  about  a 
change  in  the  food  value,  they  are  easier  of  digestion, 
hence  more  desirable  as  a  food.     But  is  coddling  and 


Cereals 


173 


saving  of  digestive  power  desirable?  Would  not  the 
people  be  better  off,  in  a  digestive  way,  if  they  were  not 
saved  the  rough-and-tumble  required  to  convert  raw 
cereals  into  food  for  the  body?  Many  have  lost  their 
power  to  digest  raw  starch.  It  is  the  duty  of  healthy 
people  to  tax  their  digestive  power  all  that  is  possible, 
so  as  not  to  lose  what  little  digestive  power  they  have 
left  by  eating  predigested  food. 

The  power  to  digest  raw  starch  is  lost  because  of  the 
almost  universal  use  of  cooked  starch.  The  non-use  of 
milk  is  followed  by  the  extinction  of  certain  glands  that 
furnish  a  milk  digestive.  It  is  a  law  of  nature  that  the 
non-use  of  a  function  causes  extinction  of  structure. 

Combinations. — The  all-ready-to-eat  breakfast  foods 
should  be  eaten  dry — thoroughly  masticated  and  insali- 
vated. This  cannot  be  done  when  they  are  wet  and 
softened  with  milk  or  cream.  After  eating  all  desired 
in  the  dry  state,  a  glass  of  milk,  one-fourth  cream,  may 
be  sipped  slowly.  The  cream  in  the  milk  will  make  up 
for  the  butter,  which  cannot  well  be  eaten  with  most  of 
the  prepared  cereals.  Butter  may  be  melted  and  poured 
over  the  dry  flake  foods.  If  for  any  reason  cream 
should  not  be  eaten,  follow  the  meal  with  a  glass  of  whole 
milk,  skimmed  milk,  or  teakettle  tea — one-third  milk  and 
two-thirds  boiling  water. 

To  know  the  composition  of  the  proprietary  break- 
fast foods,  apply  to  the  companies  that  prepare  them. 
The>*  furnish  the  analysis. 

What  should  be  eaten,  besides  cereals,  for  breakfast? 
Nothing!  Of  course,  nearly  everybody  eats  a  variety  for 
breakfast,  and  everybody  is  sick  more  or  less;  not  from 
an  improperly  prepared  breakfast  alone,  but  from  dietary 
indiscretions.  The  human  machine  can  stand  up  under 
a  very  great  load  of  ill-treatment;  a  small  percentage  can 
live  to  a  fair  age  in  spite  of  all  kinds  of  stupid  abuse; 
but  many  are  killed  in  childhood  and  early  life  by  either 


174 


Food 


overeating  or  eating  improper  combinations.  Sugar  eaten 
with  mush  or  other  breakfast  foods  invites  fermentation. 
When  the  digestive  capacity  is  oversupplied,  fermentation 
will  follow.  Where  the  eating  is  well  within  the  digestive 
capacity,  most  people  can  get  along  fairly  well  even  when 
they  combine  most  ridiculously;  but  when,  from  any 
cause,  resistance  is  lowered  and  the  digestive  power  is 
weakened,  the  amount  of  food  eaten  must  be  reduced, 
or  disease  will  follow. 

A  constant  oversupply  of  food,  in  those  whose  diges- 
tive ability  is  capable  of  flooding  the  system  with  nutri- 
ment, will  lead  to  obesity  and  acute  diseases,  such  as 
rheumatism,  pneumonia,  or  catarrhal  diseases. 

Children  who  are  fed  starch,  milk,  and  sugar  to  excess 
build  catarrh,  enlarged  tonsils,  adenoids,  etc. 

Sugar  forces  overeating.  A  child  with  no  desire  for 
food  can  be  induced  to  eat  by  a  heavy  application  of 
sugar.  If  starch  is  digested,  it  is  converted  into  sugar; 
but,  when  all  the  heat  units  that  are  required  by  the 
organism  are  given  in  the  shape  of  sugar,  the  starch  will 
be  rejected.  Why  should  digestion  take  place  when  it  is 
not  needed?  The  starch  is  not  needed;  hence  it  will  not 
be  digested,  but  will  ferment,  and  poison  the  body  with 
carbonic  acid  and  alcohol. 

It  is  impossible  to  say  how  much  anyone  should  eat. 
Anything  added  to  a  staple  food  that  induces  eating, 
when  without  the  added  palate-tickler  little,  if  any,  of  the 
staple  food  would  be  taken,  is  ruinous.  Disease  will  fol- 
low such  pampering  of  the  appetite. 

Real  hunger  may  be  known  by  the  relish  for  plain 
foods;  but  overindulgence — eating  too  much — may  even 
be  practiced  in  eating  the  simple,  plain  foods.  It  is  not 
infrequent — in  fact,  quite  common — to  see  someone  who 
eats  too  much  bread.  Those  who  force  bread-eating  by 
adding  sweets  and  fruit  preparations  must  come  to  grief 
in  some  way. 


Bread 


175 


Bread  the  Staff  of  Life. — Bread  becomes  the  staff  of 
death  after  thirty-five  years  of  age.  Why  not  use  it  after 
this  age?  Because  the  body  is  built — through  growing 
— and  requires  only  enough  mineral  to  keep  up  repairs. 
The  cereals  carry  much  mineral,  and,  if  they  are  eaten  in 
maturity,  the  body  is  burdened  with  building  elements 
which  it  cannot  use.  As  a  result,  premature  aging  and 
old-age  diseases  are  forced  on  those  who  persist  in  eating 
heartily  of  foods  made  from  cereals,  dry  beans  and  peas. 
And  if  what  has  been  said  about  sugar  and  starch  be  true, 
deaths  from  bread  have  taken  place  in  children,  due  to 
the  imprudent  use  of  sugar  or  sweets. 

Bread — starch — is  a  necessary  food,  but,  on  account 
of  its  cheapness,  too  much  is  eaten  by  nearly  all  people. 
It  is  not  uncommon  for  from  four  to  six  starches  to  appear 
on  the  family  dinner-table;  bread  is  eaten  three  times  a 
day;  and  too  often  both  bread  and  potatoes  are  eaten  in 
some  form  three  times  a  day. 

Bread  is  commonly  made  by  adding  yeast  to  the 
flour,  to  cause  it  to  rise  or  to  make  it  porous  and  light. 
There  are  objections  to  the  use  of  yeast;  it  tends  to  pro- 
duce fermentation  in  the  stomach  and  bowels. 

Yeast  is  supposed  to  have  a  catalytic  action  on  a  mix- 
ture of  sugar  and  water,  causing  fermentation  and  the 
generation  of  carbonic  acid  and  alcohol;  this,  too,  with- 
out the  yeast  becoming  changed  in  its  chemistry,  which 
is  the  meaning  of  catalysis.  This  being  peculiar  of  yeast, 
it  should  be  used  very  sparingly,  and  not  at  all  by  people 
out  of  health. 

That  my  readers  may  know  exactly  what  "catalysis" 
means,  I  quote  from  the  American  Encyclopedia: 

When  chemical  decomposition  is  brought  about  in  any 
compound,  and  its  ingredients  are  made  to  enter  into  new  com- 
binations in  consequence  of  the  introduction  of  another  body, 
which  does  not  itself  form  a  part  of  any  of  these  combinations, 
nor  lose  either  of  its  constituents,  but  acts  in  some  manner 


176 


Tcod 


not  understood,  apparently  by  its  mere  presence  or  contact,  to 
excite  this  chemical  action,  is  a  catalytic  process. 

This  peculiar  law  should  be  more  generally  under- 
stood. It  certainly  is  a  strong  argument  against  the  whole- 
sale mixing  that  is  observed  in  culinary  science.  No  one 
is  wise  enough  to  say  what  the  chemical  developments 
will  be  in  any  mixed  meal.  Not  only  must  the  various 
foods  be  known  and  considered,  but  the  mental  and 
physical  states  of  the  body  must  also  be  ascertained ;  then 
the  action  and  reaction  of  all  these  elements  must  be 
known,  before  man's  knowledge  of  digestion  can  be  said 
to  be  perfect. 

Until  that  time  comes — which  is  a  long  way  off — a 
safe  plan  of  eating  is  to  eat  simply — not  to  eat  too  many 
varieties  at  a  meal — and  to  avoid  eating  foods  together 
that  require  opposing  mediums;  for  example,  meat,  which 
requires  an  acid  medium,  and  starch,  which  requires  an 
alkaline  medium.  Just  such  mixing  is  offered  as  proof 
that  my  contentions  are  erroneous;  but  I  insist  that  the 
world  of  unnecessary  sickness,  premature  death,  crime, 
and  insanity,  that  we  see  here,  there,  and  everywhere,  is 
the  consequence  of  these  very  errors  of  eating. 

Combinations. — Bread  and  other  starchy  food  should 
be  eaten  as  nearly  without  other  food  as  possible.  If 
we  would  attain  ideal  results,  bread  should  be  eaten  with- 
out other  food,  or  with  fresh  fruit.  If  the  bread  has  been 
thoroughly  toasted,  so  much  the  better.  Drink  hot  water 
when  through  eating.  One-third  cream  and  two-thirds 
boiling  water  is  a  good  table  beverage  and  will  go  very 
well  with  bread.  Milk  is  used  with  bread ;  but  if  an  ener- 
vated person — one  who  has  feeble  digestive  power — eats 
bread  and  milk,  combined  or  separate,  at  the  same  meal, 
he  will  have  indigestion  following  such  a  meal.  Of  course, 
tradition  and  custom  have  long  since  passed  upon  bread 
and  milk  as  a  correct  diet,  and  anything  said  to  the  con- 


Flour 


177 


trary  is  the  very  worst  dietetic  heresy  and  will  not  go  far 
toward  bringing  about  a  change. 

Bread  eaten  with  milk  is  a  less  dietetic  offense  than 
bread  eaten  with  the  more  pronounced  animal  proteids, 


Flour. — Flour  most  prized  for  bread-making  shows 
the  largest  proportion  of  gliadin,*  whether  this  be  reck- 
oned in  percentage  of  the  gluten  or  of  the  total  proteins 
present.  The  quality  of  making  an  elastic  dough,  capable 
of  large  expansion  in  the  bread-making  process,  depends 
upon  both  the  amount  and  the  nature  of  the  gluten.  In 
order  to  make  a  large,  light  loaf  of  bread,  the  flour  should 
have  a  fairly  high  gluten  content,  and  its  gluten  should 
contain  a  high  proportion  of  gliadin  (Sherman). 


Entire- wheat  flour  analysis:  water,  10.81;  protein, 
12.26;  fat,  2.24;  carbohydrates,  73.67;  ash,  1.02  per 


The  percentage  of  gliadin  and  glutenin  in  the  gluten 
of— 


Leavening  Agents. — Yeast  is  in  general  use  for  leav- 
ening bread  dough. 

Many  who  know  that  I  do  not  recommend  yeast  bread 
think  it  one  of  my  idiosyncrasies — notions  or  fads — and 
that  the  opinion  is  not  to  be  taken  seriously.    Why  should 


♦Gliadin:  a  proteid  obtainable  from  wheat  gluten.  Wheat 
proteins,  gliadin  and  glutenin,  constitute  about  nine-tenths 
of  the  protein  matter  of  the  grain.  In  the  whole  grain  these 
proteins  are  about  equal,  but  in  wheat  flour  there  is  more 
gliadin  than  glutenin.  It  is  said  that  gliadin  gives  tenacity 
and  elasticity  to  the  gluten,  while  glutenin  gives  strength; 
but  the  two  proteins  must  be  present  in  proper  proportions, 
if  the  gluten  is  to  have  the  properties  desired  in  bread-making. 


such  as  meat,  fish,  eggs,  etc. 


cent. 


Patent  flour. . . . 
Straight  flour. . . 
Low-grade  flour, 
Ship-stuff  flour. 

Bran  flour  

Sifted  dust  


is  69.9 
is  59 . 1 
is  57.3 
is  53.8 
is  31.9 
is  16.1 


178 


Food 


yeast  be  considered  unwholesome,  when  nearly  all  people 
eat  yeast  bread? 

This  is  the  argument  advanced  by  the  unthinking  on 
all  questions  where  custom  or  convention  is  interfered 
with. 

To  oppose  yeast  as  leavening  brings  the  argument 
that  "everybody  uses  it."  To  oppose  the  use  of  tobacco 
brings  the  declaration  that  most  people  use  it.  To  pro- 
scribe coffee  and  tea  causes  surprise;  for  "everybody 
uses  these  table  beverages."  No  one  appears  to  see  the 
warped  and  distorted  appearance  of  the  human  race  as 
it  passes  on  through  life.  Look  upon  the  people  "en 
masse,"  wherever  found — one  without  a  blemish  is  a  very 
rare  exception.  Is  this  not  a  sorry  reflection,  if  the  pop- 
ular belief  that  man  is  made  in  the  image  of  his  Maker — 
meaning  his  God — is  true?  Leave  the  Deity  out  of  this 
question,  and  it  is  easy  to  see  that  people  are  actually 
made  in  the  image  of  their  maker.  The  general  "tout 
ensemble"  of  the  human  race  is  as  one  might  expect  from 
a  mixture  of  ferments  (decomposition),  tobacco,  alcohol, 
coffee,  tea,  drugs,  medical  superstition — a  type  of  which 
is  to  be  found  in  "Damaged  Goods,"  etc. 

Poison  the  body  by  the  use  of  drugs,  vaccines,  serums, 
and  so-called  immunizing  agents;  by  foods  improperly 
prepared  and  wrongly  combined;  by  overeating;  then  to 
these  causes  add  the  depressed  state  of  the  mind  from 
fear  generated  by  priest  and  doctor — is  there  any  wonder 
that  sickness  or  ill-health  is  the  rule,  and  that  ideal  health 
is  the  rarest  exception? 

Yes,  nearly  everybody  eats  yeast  bread,  and  nearly 
everybody  is  more  or  less  invalided.  But  bear  in  mind 
that  yeast  bread  is  only  one  of  many  causes  of  disease. 

Nature's  laboratory,  in  which  man  and  every  form  of 
life  have  evolved,  is  peculiarly  adjusted  to  the  needs  of 
the  life  that  evolves. 


Yeast  Bread 


179 


Man  did  not  evolve  until  a  fit  habitation  had  been 
prepared  for  him.  In  this  home,  elements  for  his  con- 
struction are  found — food  necessary  for  his  growth  and 
maintenance.  In  time  man  learned  enough  to  take  a  hand 
in  causing  the  earth  to  furnish  a  larger  supply  of  food. 
Because  of  this  self-help,  he  gradually  became  conceited 
and  believed  himself  the  cause  of  his  own  evolution.  A3 
a  result  of  this  conceit,  he  has  drifted  far  away  from 
nature's  requirements  in  many  things.  In  the  matter  of 
nourishment,  ridiculous  mixtures  of  food  and  drink  have 
been  concocted,  and,  worse  yet,  the  most  grotesque  cures 
and  disease  preventions  have  been  invented.  As  a  result 
of  all  this  usurpation  of  creative  prerogative,  many  mis- 
takes have  been  made,  neither  the  last  nor  the  least  of 
which  is  the  belief  that  man  may  eat  yeast  bread,  drink 
alcoholics,  coffee,  and  tea,  use  tobacco,  and  poison  his 
blood  with  so-called  preventives,  without  injury  to  him- 
self as  an  individual,  or  to  the  race. 

It  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  there  is  enough  and 
to  spare  of  fermentation  in  every  man's  environment, 
without  adding  more,  as  is  done  by  eating  three  times  a 
day  of  bread  containing  yeast  that  is  capable  of  perpet- 
uating itself  by  reproduction. 

The  more  simply  bread  is  prepared,  the  better  it  is 
as  a  food.  The  old-fashioned  hoe-cake,  Johnny  cake, 
and  corn  pone  are  out  of  date;  but  these  were  the  simple 
breads  of  our  forebears,  and  would  be  good  foods  for 
the  present  generation,  used  in  moderation. 

In  the  past  fifty  to  seventy-five  years  wheat  bread  and 
cereals  have  gradually  been  substituted  for  corn  bread 
and  corn-meal  mush.  There  have  also  been  wonderful 
changes  made  in  milling.  As  better  milling  evolved,  it 
created  a  demand  for  better  grain;  this  meant  better 
farming,  better  care  of  the  grain,  and,  consequently,  bet- 
ter food,  and,  neither  last  nor  least,  better  health  and 


180 


Food 


longer  life.  Corn  bread  and  hominy  (other  things  being 
equal)  very  rapidly  age  those  who  live  on  such  food. 

The  average  composition  of  corn  meal  and  wheat 
flour  is  as  follows: 

Corn  meal,  granular:  water,  12.5;  carbohydrates,  includ- 
ing fiber,  75.4;  protein,  9.2;  fat,  1.9;  ash,  1.0;  fuel  value  per 
pound,  in  calories,  1,620. 

Entire-wheat  flour:  water,  11.4;  carbohydrates,  including 
fiber,  71.9;  protein,  13.8;  fat,  1.9;  ash,  1.0;  calories,  1,630. 

Wheat  flour,  high-grade:  water,  12.4;  carbohydrate  and 
fiber,  74.9;  protein,  11.2;  fat,  1.0;  ash,  0.5;  calories,  1,603. 

The  composition  of  the  cereals  does  not  differ  enough 
from  that  of  entire-wheat  flour  to  give  their  analyses. 

Biscuit  Bread. — At  the  beginning  of  the  popular  use 
of  wheat  flour,  bread  was  made  with  sour  milk  and  soda. 
The  right  proportion  of  sour  milk  and  soda  makes  a  bis- 
cuit that  is  not  excelled  by  the  best  baking-powder;  but 
there  is  an  element  of  uncertainty  as  regards  the  sourness 
of  the  milk.  Because  of  this  varying  sourness,  bread  must 
vary.  This  uncertainty  has  caused  baking-powder*  to 
come  into  general  use.  Cream  of  tartar  and  soda  are 
comparatively  harmless,  and  the  bread — biscuit  bread — 
toasted,  is  wholesome  far  beyond  that  of  the  best  yeast 
bread. 

The  breakfast  foods  are  splendid  substitutes  for  yeast 
bread.  Few  people,  however,  are  willing  to  make  a 
breakfast  on  oatmeal.  Those  who  eat  porridge  for 
breakfast  must  have  it  dressed  with  sugar,  and  in  addi- 
tion eat  cooked  fruit,  yeast  bread,  and  eggs.  Even  if 
such  mixing  were  compatible,  it  would  be  a  dietetic  error 
to  eat  so  much,  and  to  mix  so  many  items  of  food  in  one 
meal. 


♦Schilling's  is  made  of  chemically  pure  cream  of  tartar 
and  soda,  combined  in  just  the  right  proportion  to  secure  the 
greatest  lifting  power. 


Bread 


181 


People  who  abuse  the  stomach  by  giving  it  hard  and 
difficult  grist  to  grind  always  age  prematurely.  Imperfect 
digestion,  painful  digestion,  slow  digestion,  all  leave  their 
marks  on  the  face.    Such  derangements  hasten  old  age. 

To  eat  bread  three  times  a  day,  or  at  every  meal,  is 
the  general  habit  or  custom  of  the  people.  It  matters 
not  what  other  food  is  on  the  table,  bread  is  looked  for 
and  demanded.  This  is  one  of  the  most  pronounced 
dietetic  errors,  and  one  that  has  much  to  do  with  hard- 
ening the  arteries. 

Children  may  eat  bread  or  cereals  three  times  a  day; 
or  perhaps  I  should  say  that  we  are  accustomed  to  think- 
ing that  children  need  the  building  foods  three  times  a 
day.  Even  the  opinion  that  children  need  so  much  may 
be  a  mistake,  and  it  may  be  just  barely  possible  that  they 
are  taxed  into  disease  by  feeding  them  so  much  food 
made  from  grain. 

Delinquent  and  retarded  children  may  owe  much  of 
their  unhappy  state  to  the  evil  influences  of  food  made 
from  grain.  They  should  have  more  fruit,  raw  and 
cooked  vegetables  (salads),  milk,  cheese,  nuts,  and  eggs, 
and  less  bread  and  cereals. 

Grown  people  can  get  all  the  building  material  they 
need  by  eating  bread  not  oftener  than  once  a  day. 

Glutenin,  which  is  a  product  of  wheat  flour,  has  been 
shown  by  the  United  States  Department  of  Agriculture 
to  be  adequate  for  both  maintenance  and  growth,  even 
when  it  was  the  only  protein  in  the  diet.  Mr.  Sherman 
says: 

It  is,  however,  only  reasonable  to  expect  that  the  mixture 
of  proteins  found  in  corn  meal,  or  even  wheat  flour,  will  be 
of  somewhat  less  value  in  nutrition  than  an  equal  weight  of 
the  mixture  of  proteins  which  we  find  in  milk,  eggs,  or  meat. 
Experimental  observations  confirm  this  inference  and  indicate 
that  when  bread  is  the  sole  source  of  protein  in  the  diet,  a 
larger  amount  of  protein  is  required  for  equilibrium  than  when 
milk  or  meat  is  eaten. 


182 


Food 


When  milk  is  used  with  bread,  oatmeal,  and  corn-meal 
mushes,  the  meal  is  better  balanced;  for  milk  is  rich  in 
the  amino-acid  radicals  in  which  the  grains  are  poor. 
Osborne  and  Mendel  have  found  that  animals  are  not  only 
maintained  in  health  and  vigor,  but  also  make  a  normal 
rate  of  growth  when  three-fourths  of  their  protein  is  zein 
(the  protein  of  corn)  and  one-fourth  lactalbumen,  one 
of  the  proteins  of  milk. 

The  digestibility  of  the  grain  proteins  is  inferior  to 
that  of  the  animal  proteins.  The  reasons  are  several. 
One  is  that  the  wall  inclosing  the  grain  proteins  in  ordi- 
nary milling  is  hard  to  digest.  A  second  reason  is  that 
the  grain  composition  is  disturbed  and  some  of  the  vital 
elements  are  removed  in  fine  milling. 

When  nature's  chemistry  is  interfered  with,  as  in  fine 
milling  and  bolting,  the  digestibility  of  flour  is  lessened. 
A  whole-wheat  or  a  graham  flour  will  not  create  indiges- 
tion— bring  on  fermentation — as  a  patent  flour  will,  be- 
cause, in  the  latter  flour,  the  starch,  proteins,  mineral  ele- 
ments, and  the  vitamines  are  thrown  out  of  balance,  and 
their  proportions  disturbed,  causing  a  chemical  unbal- 
ancing that  favors  fermentation.  The  above  is  pure 
theory.  Experience  declares  that  the  fine  patent  flour  is 
much  more  easily  digested  than  the  whole-wheat  or 
graham.    Less  whole-wheat  bread  is  required,  however. 

Baking-Powder  Bread. — Good  baking-powder  is 
composed  of  a  properly  proportioned  mixture  of  bicar- 
bonate of  soda  (baking-soda)  and  bitartrate  of  potash 
(cream  of  tartar).  These  two  basic  elements — namely, 
soda  and  potash — are  most  necessary  as  constituents  of 
a  properly  balanced  bill-of-fare. 

The  list  of  foods  in  popular  use  are  divided  into  two 
classes;  namely,  those  that  are  potentially  acid  and  those 
that  are  potentially  alkaline.  The  latter  class  is  repre- 
sented by  all  raw  fruits  and  vegetables;  hence  my  con- 
tention for  the  need  of  fresh,  uncooked  fruit  and  vege- 


Baking-Powder  Bread 


183 


table  salads  daily.  When  this  is  neglected,  and  the  diet- 
ary i3  made  up  of  meat,  bread,  cake,  pie,  puddings,  ices, 
coffee,  or  tea,  acidosis  (scorbutus,  scurvy)  is  built.  In 
other  words,  a  constitutional  derangement  will  be  built 
that  is  correctly  named  autotoxemia,  on  to  which  all 
diseases  are  grafted.  Where  the  body  is  brought  into 
this  state  from  wrong  eating,  it  becomes  a  favorable 
habitat  for  germs  of  all  kinds. 

When  this  state  of  the  blood  is  brought  about,  fer- 
mentation starts  up  with  the  slightest  excuse. 

It  has  been  my  experience  that  properly  made  bak- 
ing-powder bread  is  far  superior  to  yeast  bread  as  a 
health-conserver. 

The  bread  may  be  baked  in  biscuit  form,  then  split 
and  toasted;  or  it  may  be  made  into  a  loaf,  then  sliced 
and  toasted. 

Yeast  bread  is  one  of  a  combination  of  causes  required 
to  produce  tonsilitis,  gastric  diseases,  constipation,  and 
many  other  such  diseases,  the  foundation  of  which  may 
be  traced  to  constipation. 

If  long  life  is  desired  and  health  required  to  get  the 
best  out  of  life,  yeast  bread  should  be  tabooed.  Any  of 
the  cereals  may  be  substituted  for  biscuit  bread  or  corn 
bread  once  or  twice  a  week.  After  thirty-five  years  of 
age,  eating  of  grain  products  should  be  confined  to  one 
meal  each  day;  after  forty  or  sixty  years  of  age,  to  three 
times  a  week;  and  after  eighty  no  grain  foods  should  be 
eaten  at  all. 

From  sixty  years  of  age  on,  man  should  live  on  fruits, 
salads  (vegetable),  milk,  cheese,  eggs,  and  very  little,  if 
any,  meat. 

Grain  and  meat  have  a  tendency  to  develop  acidosis. 
The  older  man  gets,  the  less  power  he  has  for  resisting 
the  devitalizing  effects  of  acid-producing  foods,  and,  un- 
less a  halt  is  called  in  the  eating  of  such  foods,  a  time  will 
come  when  the  body  will  fail  to  oxidize  the  acid,  potas- 


184 


Food 


sium  tartrate  (cream  of  tartar),  so  abundantly  found  in 
all  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables;  then  acidity  follows,  with 
all  its  evil  consequences.  It  is  necessary  to  retain  the 
power  to  convert  the  cream  of  tartar  of  fruit  and  vege- 
tables into  an  alkaline  base;  for  this  base  is  the  system's 
great  antiseptic.  It  gives  the  body  its  resistance  to  the 
putrefactive  changes  which  are  at  all  times  imminent  and 
which  finally  lay  man  low. 

Acid  fermentation — -acidosis — is  the  nemesis  that 
threatens  man  from  the  cradle  to  the  grave.  It  may  take 
him  away  at  birth,  in  childhood,  in  manhood,  or  in  old 
age,  unless  he  lives  right.  It  torments  him  with  many 
pains  and  many  afflictions — so  much  so  that  many  look 
upon  old  age  as  something  to  be  shunned.  This  is  not 
necessarily  so.  Old  age  should  be  the  harvest  time — 
the  time  for  enjoyment,  the  time  to  see  all  and  know  all, 
and  to  be  able  to  look  upon  the  mistakes  and  follies  of 
life  with  patience  and  charity.  As  life  is  commonly 
lived,  the  majority  die  long  before  sixty  years  of  age; 
and  many  of  those  who  are  alive  should  be  chloroformed 
to  get  them  out  of  their  misery. 

This  is  the  time  of  life  when  we  reap  what  we  have 
sown.  If  we  learn  to  respect  law  in  youth  and  middle 
age,  it  certainly  will  respect  us  when  we  are  old.  It  is 
necessary  to  build  well,  if  we  are  to  enjoy  health,  happi- 
ness, and  long  life.  We  cannot  build  disease  and  enjoy 
health.  Old  age  without  health  is  built  by  self-indulgence 
and  is  self-condemnatory.  An  unhappy  old  age  is  the 
legitimate  ending  of  self-indulgence. 

The  blood  and  fluids  of  the  body  are  potentially  alka- 
line, and,  to  maintain  health,  it  is  necessary  to  eat  with  a 
view  to  maintaining  this  natural  state  of  the  blood.  If 
mankind  ate  of  raw  food — food  as  it  comes  from  nature 
— it  would  not  be  necessary  to  pay  much  attention  to 
what  is  eaten;  for  the  chemistry  of  food  is  well  adapted 
to  the  needs  of  animal  life.    The  cosmic  energies  and 


Acidosis 


185 


tendencies  are  in  keeping  with  cosmic  needs;  in  other 
words,  there  is  a  general  adaptability  of  means  to  ends — 
of  supply  to  demand.  In  the  usual  cooking  and  mixing 
of  foods  the  chemistry  is  changed,  and  this  brings  about 
change  in  the  human  body. 

Acidosis. — As  stated  above,  excess  of  acid  in  the 
body  is  the  principal  cause  of  all  kinds  of  diseases. 

The  conventional  style  of  eating  a  preponderance  of 
those  foods  that  are  potentially  acid — namely,  bread, 
meat,  rice,  puddings,  pies,  cakes,  custards,  preserved 
fruits,  pickles,  coffee,  tea,  cocoa,  chocolate,  malted  milk, 
etc. — builds  autotoxemia,  acidosis,  scurvy,  scorbutus. 
Autotoxemia  is  brought  about,  more  often  than  other- 
wise, by  bringing  on  enervation  from  overeating.  The 
acid  development  from  fermentation  caused  by  a  daily 
intake  of  too  much  food,  or  of  potentially  acid  foods, 
produces  enervation.  When  the  system  is  enervated,  or- 
ganic functioning  is  more  or  less  inhibited,  causing  a  re- 
tention of  waste  products — hence  autotoxemia.  Auto- 
toxemia may  be  recognized  as  the  early  or  first  stage  of 
scorbutus — acidosis — scurvy.  When  the  eating  excludes 
potatoes,  beans,  peas,  fresh  fruits,  and  vegetable  salads, 
disease  is  brought  on.  This  style  of  eating  causes  catarrh, 
rheumatism,  tonsilitis,  all  kinds  of  sore  throat  and  chil- 
dren's diseases. 

That  there  may  be  no  confusion,  I  shall  explain  that 
the  theory  of  acidosis  in  no  wise  nullifies  my  theory  that 
enervation — lost  nerve  power — is  the  cause  of  faulty 
elimination,  and  that  inhibition  of  elimination  causes  an 
accumulation  of  the  excretions  or  autotoxemia  (poison- 
ing by  one's  own  excretions).  Where  enervation  has 
been  brought  on  by  the  constant  oversupply  of  poten- 
tially acid  foods,  the  manufacture  and  retention  of  an 
acid  in  the  system  are  so  rapid  that  a  few  weeks  of  such 
exclusive  eating  bring  on  what  is  known  as  scurvy — 
acidosis.    Acidosis  may  be  said  to  be  an  extreme  type  of 


186 


Food 


autotoxemia.  This,  however,  is  not  exactly  the  truth; 
for  acidosis  is  more  the  result  of  food  poisoning  than  of 
poisoning  by  retained  excretions. 

People  who  eat  bread,  meat,  cakes,  and  generally 
cooked  foods,  have  mucous  patches,  or  small  ulcerations, 
show  on  the  tongue,  mouth,  throat,  vulva,  vagina,  and 
other  parts  of  the  reproductive  organs.  Undoubtedly  an 
acid  state,  causing  herpes  (inflammatory  patches  on  the 
mucous  membrane  or  skin),  is  often  miscalled  syphilis 
and  treated  as  a  venereal  disease.  It  is  obvious  to  the 
discerning  that  great  harm  must  follow  a  treatment 
which  is  diametrically  opposite  the  one  needed.  When 
mucous  patches  caused  by  scorbutus  or  scurvy  (a  dis- 
ease due  to  lack  of  consumption  of  fruit  and  vegetables) 
are  mistaken  for  syphilis  and  treated  with  mercury  (a 
treatment  that  proscribes  all  fruit-eating) ,  it  is  easy  to  see 
that  such  treatment  must  cause  great  suffering  and  much 
unnecessary  ill-health.  It  is  not  strange  that  such  symp- 
toms as  those  described  in  "Damaged  Goods"  are  seen. 
Why  should  not  the  Wassermann  test  show  a  positive 
reaction  in  acidosis?  The  acid  state  should  bring  about 
a  positive  reaction  in  all  cases  presenting  symptoms  of 
scurvy — scorbutus — acidosis.  The  treatment  should  be 
fruit,  not  mercury  or  arsenic — "606." 

All  fresh  fruits  are  potentially  alkaline,  and  so  are 
potatoes,  beans,  and  peas. 

LEGUMES 

Of  the  legumes,  the  pea  and  bean  are  the  most  im- 
portant food  products.  They  are  especially  favored  by 
vegetarians,  because  they  furnish  more  proteid  than  meat 
and  are  considered  a  better  food.  But  when  the  digesti- 
bility of  beans  and  peas  is  compared  with  that  of  meat, 
meat  must  be  given  the  precedence.  Many  invalids  find 
it  impossible  to  digest  the  dry  bean  and  dry  pea.  The 
legumes  contain  a  large  portion  of  carbohydrates  (starch) 


Legumes  187 

and  a  small  amount  of  fat,  besides  a  large  amount  of 
water. 


Fuel 

Kind  of  Food 

Water, 

Protein, 
Per  Ct. 

Fat, 

Carbo- 

Ash, 

Value 

Material 

Per  Ct. 

Per  Ct. 

hydrates, 
Per  Ct. 

Per  Ct. 

per 
Pound 

10.4 

18.1 

1.5 

65.9 

4.1 

1586 

Fresh  Lima  beans .  . . 

68.5 

7.1 

0  7 

22.0 

1.7 

557 

12.6 

22.5 

1.8 

59.6 

3.5 

1586 

9.5 

24.6 

1.0 

62.0 

2.9 

1612 

74.6 

7.0 

0.5 

16.9 

1.0 

464 

Lentils  

8.4 

25.7 

1.0 

59.2 

5.7 

1620 

Peanuts  

9.2 

25.8 

38.6 

24.4 

2.0 

2560 

Abel  points  out  three  reasons  why  legumes  are  hard 
to  digest: 

1.  As  generally  prepared  and  used,  the  nutrients  of 
vegetable  foods  are  inclosed  in  cells  composed  of  cellulose  or 
woody  fiber,  which  is  more  or  less  hard  and  greatly  interferes 
with  their  absorption. 

2.  Vegetable  food  is  prone  to  fermentation  in  the  in- 
testines, thus  increasing  the  peristaltic  movements,  and,  if 
large  amounts  are  eaten,  hastening  the  food  onward  before 
there  has  been  sufficient  time  for  the  absorption  of  its  con- 
tained nutrients. 

3.  The  cellulose  present  acts  as  a  local  irritant  and 
produces  the  same  effect. 

Beans  and  Peas. — Dry  beans  and  peas  are  character- 
ized by  high  protein  content.  They  are  not  only  richer 
in  protein  than  green  vegetables,  but,  when  dry,  they 
show  higher  percentages  of  protein  than  canned  or  fresh 
meat.  They  also  contain  a  large  amount  of  carbohydrate 
and  a  small  amount  of  fat.  As  will  be  seen,  they  are  of 
higher  fuel  value  than  meats.  Meat  carrying  enough  fat 
to  equal  the  fuel  value  of  dry  beans  or  peas  would  be 
quite  short  in  protein  content. 

To  recommend  them  as  of  great  value  as  a  food, 
beans  and  peas  carry  a  large  percentage  of  the  base- 


188 


Food 


forming  elements,  and,  when  properly  cooked,  supply 
alkali. 

The  composition  of  beans  and  peas,  compared  with 
that  of  other  foods,  gives  them  the  appearance  of  being 
superior  to  all  others  in  food  value,  and,  if  fully  as  diges- 
tible, they  are  superior  to  other  foods.  But  "there's  the 
rub" — they  are  not  so  easily  taken  care  of  by  the  diges- 
tion, and  living  on  them  exclusively,  or  nearly  so,  will 
cause  premature  aging  and  bowel  disease — diarrhea  is 
common. 

Beans  are  potentially  alkaline,  and  from  this  fact 
should  be  a  valuable  food;  but,  in  cooking,  this  element 
is  often  soaked  out  and  thrown  away. 

A  very  common  way  of  preparing  beans  is  to  soak 
them  overnight  in  water,  drain,  and  add  more  water; 
then  parboil  and  drain  again;  then  once  more  add  water, 
and  finish  the  cooking.  By  this  manipulation  the  beans 
are  robbed  of  their  alkalinity.  When  cooked  in  this  way, 
and  eaten  with  meat,  bread,  pie,  cake,  or  pudding,  the 
acid-forming  elements  are  so  pronounced  that  the  foun- 
dation is  laid  for  scorbutus  (scurvy).  A  few  of  the  minor 
symptoms  are  the  frequent  developing  of  sores  in  the 
mouth;  spongy,  bleeding  gums,  which  are  an  early  symp- 
tom of  pyorrhea;  paleness,  or  anemic  appearance;  lan- 
guor, depression. 

To  prevent  those  who  are  inclined  to  eat  such  dinners 
from  going  down  and  out  rapidly,  they  eat  more  or  less 
fresh  vegetables  and  fruit — not  enough,  however,  to  pre- 
vent a  gradual  breaking-down  from  acid  poisoning, 
which  prematurely  ages  and  brings  on  old-age  diseases. 

One  of  the  peculiarities  of  a  scorbutic  state  is  that, 
when  once  established,  the  victim  of  the  disease  declares 
he  cannot  eat  fruit — that  fruit  hurts  him,  makes  him  un- 
comfortable. This  is  more  or  less  true,  and  is  a  case 
of  grieving  away  the  holy  spirit  of  self-protection. 


Lentils  and  Peanuts 


189 


Man's  self-protection  is  in  full  operation  when  he  is 
in  full  health.  He  has  the  power  to  protect  himself  from 
wrong  eating  and  wrong  drinking.  He  can  discriminate 
between  evil  and  good  influences.  But  this  great  sense 
of  self-protection  is  largely  blunted  before  he  lives  long 
enough  to  enter  his  teens.  People  of  a  nervous  mental 
temperament  are  inclined  to  have  much  fermentation  fol- 
lowing the  use  of  dry  beans  and  peas.  This  produces 
much  flatulency,  and  where  the  bowels  become  very 
much  distended,  patients  are  thrown  into  great  distress. 
If  physicians  are  called  at  this  time,  especially  those  who 
are  inclined  to  think  strongly  of  the  appendix,  a  diagnosis 
of  appendicitis  will  be  made,  and  the  patient  run  to  the 
hospital  for  an  operation.  If,  however,  the  operation  is 
postponed  until  the  next  day,  the  pain  is  gone,  along  with 
the  appendicitis.  It  would  be  well  for  people  who  are  in 
the  habit  of  eating  beans,  or  any  food  that  produces 
flatulence,  to  remember  this,  so  that,  if  at  any  time  they 
are  thrown  into  distress  from  gas  in  the  bowels,  they  may 
have  courage  to  wait  until  this  condition  has  passed 
away,  and  thus  save  themselves  an  unnecessary  operation. 

Lentils. — Lentils  are  not  in  common  use  in  this  coun- 
try. They  are  used  more  in  the  South  than  in  the  North 
and  West.  The  chief  supply  comes  from  Egypt,  only  a 
few  being  grown  in  Europe.  They  are  highly  nutritious. 
The  flavor  is  disagreeable  to  some  people,  and  that  is 
probably  the  reason  why  they  are  not  so  popular  in  this 
country  as  beans  and  peas.  There  is  no  reason  why  they 
should  not  be  as  indigestible  as  beans  or  peas.  They  are 
to  be  prepared  in  the  same  way  as  beans,  and  eaten  in  the 
same  combinations. 

Peanuts. — Peanuts  are  not  nuts  at  all.  They  are  the 
gopher  bean,  and  belong  to  the  legume  family.  When 
cooked,  they  are  very  similar  to  the  navy  bean.  In  cook- 
ing, they  throw  out  an  odor  exactly  like  that  of  the  navy 
bean.    One  advantage  the  peanut  has  over  beans  is  that 


190 


Food 


the  peanut  may  be  roasted  and  is  palatable,  whereas  the 
bean  would  not  be.  For  stewing  or  broiling  purposes  the 
peanuts  should  be  fresh,  not  roasted,  and  should  be  soaked 
and  cooked  in  the  same  manner  as  directed  for  beans. 
They  should  be  eaten  in  about  the  same  combinations. 

Combinations. — The  food  combinations  that  should 
be  made  when  legumes  are  to  be  used,  ought  to  be  about 
as  follows:  beans  or  peas,  one  or  two  cooked,  non- 
starchy  vegetables,  and  a  combination  salad.  Beans  are 
supposed  to  take  the  place  of  meat.  They  are  eaten 
more  for  the  proteid  that  they  furnish  than  for  any  other 
food  property.  Proteid  should  not  be  eaten  unless  in 
combination  with  a  salad.  This  holds  good  with  all  the 
different  species  of  legume.  It  is  a  mistake  to  eat  beans 
and  meat  together.  The  system  will  be  oversupplied  with 
proteid,  and  trouble  will  be  experienced.  Beans  and  a 
combination  salad,  with  nothing  else,  make  a  very  sub- 
stantial meal.  By  no  means  should  bread  be  eaten  in 
the  same  meal  with  beans;  for  two  starches  should  not 
be  eaten  in  the  same  meal. 


ROOTS  AND  TUBERS 


Material 

Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

62.2 

1.8 

0.1 

14.7 

0.8 

295 

55.2 

1.4 

0.6 

21.9 

0.9 

440 

79.5 

2.6 

0.2 

16.7 

1.0 

358 

Beets  

70.0 

1.3 

0.1 

7.7 

C.9 

167 

70.6 

0.9 

0.2 

7.4 

0.9 

159 

66.4 

1.3 

0.4 

10.8 

1.1 

236 

62.7 

0.9 

0.1 

5.7 

0-6 

124 

64.3 

0.9 

0.1 

4.0 

0.7 

91 

Onions  (fresh)  

87.6 

1.6 

0.3 

9.9 

0.6 

220 

Rutabagas  

88.9 

1.3 

0.2 

8.5 

1.1 

186 

Roots  and  tubers  furnish  a  very  important  class  of 
vegetables.  They  contain  both  starch  and  sugar,  and  to 
these  constituents  is  due  their  chief  value  as  a  food.  ~They 


P#TAT©18 


191 


do  not  carry  much  protein,  and  carry  a  large  percentage 
of  water;  hence  they  are  inferior  in  nutritive  qualities  to 
beans  and  peas. 

Irish  Potato. — This  potato  heads  the  list  of  roots 
and  tubers,  and  is  classed  with  the  decidedly  starchy 
foods.  When  properly  cooked,  it  is  easily  digested  and 
very  nutritious.  The  best  manner  of  cooking  is  baking. 
It  should  be  washed  with  a  brush  and  then  scraped;  next 
a  few  punctures  with  a  fork  should  be  made,  to  allow 
the  gas  to  escape;  and  if  the  potato  that  is  prepared  for 
cooking  is  a  good  variety,  it  should  come  out  of  the 
oven  mealy.  When  boiled  in  water,  the  potatoes  lose 
much  of  their  salts.  The  jackets  should  be  left  on  when 
boiled.  I  think  it  is  a  mistake  to  add  salt  to  the  water 
when  they  are  being  cooked,  because  salt  increases  the 
density  of  the  water,  and,  as  the  lighter  fluids  go  to  the 
dense,  the  fluids  of  the  potato  would  be  drained  into  the 
water  in  which  they  are  being  cooked,  and  in  this  way 
more  of  the  salts  would  be  extracted  than  necessary,  or 
more  than  would  be  the  case  if  cooked  in  plain  water. 
The  salts  are  retained  by  baking  or  roasting,  and  cooked 
in  this  way  the  potatoes  are  rendered  very  much  more 
easily  digested. 

Sweet  Potato. — This  special  root  vegetable  con- 
tains more  water  and  sugar,  and  less  starch,  than  the 
white  potato.  It  should  be  cooked  in  the  same  way,  and, 
when  care  is  taken  to  make  a  few  punctures  with  a  fork, 
it  will  usually  come  out  of  the  oven  mealy. 

Yam. — The  yam  is  a  tuber  resembling  the  sweet  po- 
tato. It  is  a  delicious  food,  and  should  be  cooked  in 
the  same  way.  Some  varieties  are  almost  as  sweet  as 
honey. 

Jerusalem  Artichoke. — The  Jerusalem  artichoke  is 
common  in  England.  Not  much  attention  is  paid  to  it  in 
the  United  States.    It  is  somewhat  on  the  order  of  the 


192 


Food 


Irish  potato — is  more  watery,  contains  less  starch,  is  not 
nearly  so  nutritive — hence  easier  of  digestion. 

Combinations. — Potatoes  should  always  be  eaten  with 
a  combination  salad.  They  may  also  be  eaten  in  combi- 
nation with  the  vegetables  listed  as  non-starchy  on  page 
171.  Potatoes  should  not  be  eaten  with  a  meat  meal,  and 
I  do  not  recommend  combining  potatoes  with  other 
starchy  foods,  such  as  bread,  Lima  beans,  etc.  (See  list, 
page  171,  for  the  decidedly  starchy  foods.)  If  a  dessert 
must  be  used  after  a  dinner  containing  potatoes,  ice- 
cream or  ices  may  be  used;  occasionally  custard  or  blanc 
mange.  However,  it  is  not  good  to  mix  two  starches; 
hence  blanc  mange  made  from  starch  is  not  a  very  good 
dessert  to  follow  potatoes.  It  is  quite  common  to  have 
roast  beef  and  potatoes,  and  the  majority  of  people  look 
upon  it  as  a  proper  combination.  Those,  however,  who 
wish  to  be  conservative,  and  avoid  wasting  nerve  energy, 
should  avoid  such  combinations.  The  same  combina- 
tions apply  to  yams  and  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Beets,  Carrots,  Parsnips,  Turnips,  Radishes,  are  root 
vegetables  that  contain  quite  a  large  percentage  of  sugar 
and  some  starch,  but  they  should  be  classed  as  non- 
starchy  vegetables.  These  vegetables  should  be  eaten 
with  meat  dinners,  consisting  of  meat,  cooked,  non- 
starchy  vegetables,  and  a  combination  salad.  They  may 
also  be  eaten  with  decidedly  starchy  foods,  such  as  the 
potatoes,  in  combination  with  a  good  salad. 

Aside  from  the  starch  and  sugar  they  carry,  they  are 
valuable  for  the  food  salts  they  contain. 

GREEN  VEGETABLES 
In  the  past  fifteen  years  the  green-grocery  trade  in 
the  city  of  Denver  has  grown  from  almost  nil — from  a 
time  when  it  was  almost  impossible  to  get  material  for  a 
first-class  combination  salad — to  a  time,  say  ten  years 
afterward  and  now,  when  any  day  in  the  year  the  house- 


Green  Vegetables 


193 


wife  may  order  from  any  grocer  prime  head  lettuce,  toma- 
toes, and  cucumbers,  without  any  fear  that  she  will  be 
unable  to  get  these  vegetables. 


Fuel 

Carbo- 

Value 

Material 

w  axer 

Protein 

i  at 

hydrates 

per 
Pound 

Lettuce  

94.7 

1.2 

0.3 

2.9 

0.9 

87 

Tomatoes  

94.3 

0.9 

0.4 

3.9 

0.5 

104 

Cucumbers  

95.4 

0.8 

0.2 

3.1 

0.5 

79 

94.5 

1.1 

0.1 

3.3 

1.0 

84 

92.3 

2.1 

0.3 

3.2 

2.1 

109 

91.5 

1.6 

0.3 

5.6 

1.0 

143 

Asparagus  

94.0 

1.8 

0.2 

3.3 

0.7 

101 

89.2 

2.3 

0.3 

7.4 

0.8 

189 

Cauliflower  

92.3 

1.8 

0.5 

4.7 

0.7 

138 

75.4 

3.1 

1.1 

19.7 

0.7 

459 

92.9 

1.2 

0.3 

5.1 

0.5 

127 

Fifteen  to  eighteen  years  ago  most  of  the  best  physi- 
cians declared  that  green,  uncooked  vegetables  were  dis- 
ease-producing. Professor  MetchnikofF  advocated  the 
cooking  of  vegetables  and  pronounced  strongly  against 
eating  raw  fruit  and  vegetables,  contending  that  typhoid- 
fever  germs  lurked  in  a  dish  of  salad.  A  few  physicians 
with  rheumatic  joints  and  bad  breath  remain  in  this  state 
of  benigtedness,  and  glory  in  their  ignorance,  which  they 
persist  in  pronouncing  scientific  wisdom;  but  the  best 
physicians — those  who  are  susceptible  to  truth — not  only 
eat  vegetable  salads,  but  prescribe  them.  As  a  conse- 
quence, there  is  a  very  great  decline  in  catarrhal  diseases. 
Sore  throats  have  declined  fifty  or  more  per  cent  in  fam- 
ilies where  salad  is  eaten;  the  bad  habit  of  eating  bread 
or  starch  with  sweets,  cooked  and  preserved  fruits,  and 
jellies  has  been  stopped;  tonsilitis,  rheumatism,  and,  in 
fact,  nearly  all  diseases,  have  been  driven  out  by  the  use 
of  salads  and  fresh,  uncooked  fruits.  All  that  is  neces- 
sary to  add  to  the  foregoing  prophylactic  suggestions  is: 
Banish  overeating;  then  the  people  may  say  good-by  and 
"fare-u-well,  Brother  Watkins-a,"  to  the  family  physician. 


194 


Foob 


From  almost  no  trade  in  vegetables  that  are  eaten 
without  cooking,  and  even  those  that  are  to  be  cooked, 
the  Denver  trade  has  grown  to  require,  for  the  past  four, 
five,  or  more  years,  two  hustling  wholesale  houses  that 
handle  green  groceries  only. 

From  a  time,  less  than  eighteen  years  ago,  when,  in 
traveling,  a  vegetable  salad  could  not  be  had  for  love  or 
money,  we  have  arrived  at  a  time  today  when  a  combina- 
tion vegetable  salad  can  be  had  anywhere.  So  general 
is  the  use  of  green  vegetable  salad  that,  if  ordered  any- 
where within  civilization,  and  it  cannot  be  furnished,  an 
apology  is  forthcoming  from  the  restaurateur. 

Green  vegetables  and  fresh  fruits,  eaten  in  proper 
proportion  with  the  common  staple  foods,  will  immunize 
from  typhoid  fever,*  diphtheria,  scarlet  fever;  in  fact, 
from  all  so-called  contagious  diseases. 

The  high  cost  of  living,  and  especially  the  high  cost 
of  all  kinds  of  meats,  is  going  to  solve  many  problems  re- 
garding economy,  health,  etc. ;  for  the  people  are  going 
to  be  forced  into  growing  their  own  vegetables — all  they 
need  for  summer;  and  nuts  and  fruit  will  solve  the  prob- 
lem for  winter. 

It  is  true  that  fruit  is  quite  high  in  price,  but  there  is 
no  law  against  the  common  people  growing  enough  apple 
trees  on  an  ordinary  city  lot  to  furnish  them  all  the  apples 
they  need  for  winter  use;  and  it  does  not  take  much 
ground  on  which  to  grow  vegetables  and  fruits  enough 
for  the  largest  families. 

Where  is  the  working-man  to  get  the  land  on  which 
to  enjoy  all  this  luxury?  City  lots  are  too  high  in  price, 
and  land  outside  of  the  cities  is  too  high  in  price  for 
poor  people  to  own. 

♦This  is  exactly  opposite  to  professional  contention;  for 
it  is  claimed  that  raw  vegetables  carry  typhoid  germs  into 

the  system. 


Green  Vegetables 


195 


My  dear  people,  take  a  tip  from  the  writer:  Stop  the 
use  of  tobacco,  alcoholics,  coffee,  and  tea;  stop  stuffing 
bread  and  starch  simply  because  it  is  cheap  and  easy  to 
get;  and  then,  by  all  means,  stop  land  monopoly  by  vot- 
ing "Single  Tax.'*  After  that  it  will  not  be  many  years 
before  every  head  of  a  family  will  own  his  own  home, 
and  have  a  healthy  family,  with  all  the  good,  wholesome 
food  necessary  for  any  human  being  to  eat. 

A  few  things  that  bind  the  shackles  of  poverty  and 
discontent  on  the  masses  are:  tobacco,  alcoholics,  coffee, 
tea,  bread  used  as  the  "staff  of  life;"  idleness  when  not  at 
the  regular  employment;  gossip;  finding  fault  with  a 
miserable  existence,  built  by  an  ignorance  and  shiftless- 
ness  that  are  often  expressed  by  some  such  statement  as: 
"The  world  owes  me  a  living,  and  I  am  going  to  have  it;" 
or,  "The  laws  are  all  against  the  poor  man,  and  he  has  no 
chance." 

Bad  habits,  and  the  ignorance  that  fosters  them,  are 
the  fundamentals  out  of  which  poverty  and  discontent 
are  built. 

"The  poor  man  needs  alcoholics,  tobacco,  coffee,  and 
tea;"  "He  needs  these  few  luxuries;"  "You  should  not 
rob  him  of  his  only  enjoyment;"  "Certainly  he  is  en- 
titled to  this  much."  And,  in  enjoying  these  stimulants, 
and  other  sensusal  pleasures,  and  cultivating  the  habit  of 
feeling  sorry  for  himself,  he  enervates  and  mystifies  his 
brain  to  such  an  extent  that  he  loses  all  self-protection; 
after  which  he  becomes  the  tool  of  commercial  sharks, 
and  votes  as  a  machine,  and  invariably  against  his  own 
interests. 

The  only  salvation  for  the  people  is  to  get  sober  by 
stopping  the  use  of  all  stimulants,  and  learn  to  eat  right 
and  think  right.  Until  able  to  do  better,  eat  cooked, 
dried  fruit  or  fresh  fruit  for  breakfast;  for  dinner  at 
noon,  stewed  meat,  cabbage  slaw,  and  a  cooked,  non- 


196 


Food 


starchy  vegetable;  for  supper,  toasted  whole-wheat  bread 
and  milk. 

Stop  voting  the  conventional  ticket.  For  what  meas- 
ures shall  the  people  vote?  Certainly  not  for  those  that 
are  perpetuating  the  past  and  present  causes  of  their  dis- 
comfort. If  the  people  would  get  away  from  the  present 
disease-building  regime,  they  certainly  ought  to  have 
sense  enough  not  to  expect  a  change  for  the  better  by 
sending  for  the  same  doctors  and  voting  for  the  same 
politicians. 

If  following  a  given  road  always  leads  to  trouble, 
why  not  change  the  route?  Even  ants  change  when  they 
find  a  certain  route  dangerous. 

Wake  up,  lift  the  land  monopoly,  stop  bad  habits, 
and  free  the  body  and  mind  from  drunkenness! 

Alcohol  is  not  the  only  inebriant;  coffee,  tea,  tobacco, 
and  erroneous  ideas  are  others.  The  people  are  drunk 
as  often  on  disease-producing  ideas  as  they  are  on  stim- 
ulants and  food  poisoning.  Indeed,  inebriating  habits  are 
interchangeable. 

When  man  learns  to  eat  more  rationally  than  he  does 
now,  he  will  be  healthier,  happier,  and  more  prosperous. 

If  people  do  not  know  how  to  prepare  and  cook  veg- 
etables^— how  to  prepare  them  for  eating  as  they  should 
be  prepared — they  should  be  taught. 

As  stated  before,  vegetables  and  fruits,  eaten  as  they 
should  be,  are  immunizers  from  disease.  Not,  however, 
when  eaten  as  they  are  usually  prepared — namely, 
cooked  in  a  lot  of  water,  or  cooked  with  meat,  butter,  or 
other  fats.  Vegetables  should  be  cooked  in  their  own 
juices,  as  in  a  double  boiler,  or  with  very  little  water,  or 
in  a  Steam  Cooker;  positively  no  dressing  until  ready  to 
serve,  or  after  they  are  served,  when  salt,  cream,  or  butter 
may  be  added. 

All  vegetables  that  are  palatable  may  be  eaten  raw 
by  those  who  can  masticate  them  thoroughly.  Cooking 


Green  Vegetables 


197 


adds  no  virtue  to  foods;  indeed,  nutritive  virtue  is  ab- 
stracted from  all.  However,  because  of  our  inability  to 
masticate  grain  well,  grains  and  their  products  should  be 
cooked.  Man  cannot  take  proper  care  of  grain,  in  a 
masticatory  sense,  and  he  also  has  difficulty  in  digesting 
raw  starch. 

Meat  and  grain  should  be  cooked;  for  man  cannot  be 
sure  of  his  digestive  ability  to  kill  the  ova  of  parasites 
taken  into  his  body  by  the  eating  of  raw  meat  and  whole 
grain,  or  milled  and  unbolted  flour. 

Salads  made  of  raw  vegetables — such  as  lettuce,  to- 
matoes, cucumbers,  celery,  spinach,  cabbage — and  all 
kinds  of  fresh  fruits,  are  the  most  important  foods  placed 
on  the  dinner-table,  because  of  the  antiseptic  character 
of  their  juices,  the  oxygen  they  carry,  and,  neither  last 
nor  least,  the  cell  salts  which  are  important  to  tissue  re- 
newal. The  idea  that  many  people  have  of  a  salad  is 
erroneous — namely,  that  it  is  a  relish  which  may  be  left 
out  of  the  meal  with  impunity. 

A  conventional  salad  consists  of  a  tablespoonful  of 
cooked  or  raw  fruit  and  vegetables,  placed  on  a  lettuce 
leaf  and  served  with  some  sort  of  dressing.  The  con- 
ventional conception  of  a  salad  is  that  it  shall  be  small 
enough  to  serve  as  a  relish.  The  idea  that  a  salad  should 
be  large  enough  to  be  one  of  the  most  important  dishes 
on  the  dinner-table  has  not  dawned  on  convention's  hap- 
hazard-eating, dyspepsia-building  mental  horizon. 

Diet-wise  people  look  upon  the  idea  of  green  vege- 
table salad  being  as  necessary  to  health  and  life  as  meat 
and  bread  as  most  absurd.  That  "food  for  cows'* — 
vegetables — should  be  made  to  rank  in  importance  with 
the  two  acknowledged  staffs  of  life — namely,  bread  and 
meat — is  the  dietetic  drivel  of  ignorance. 

The  truth  is  that  no  one  should  eat  either  bread  or 
meat  without  raw  vegetables.  I  mean  that  vegetarians 
should  have  a  large  salad  with  their  dinner,  and  those  who 


1M 


Food 


eat  meat  should  accompany  all  meat  meals  with  a  large 
combination  salad. 

An  efficient  salad,  should  never  be  smaller  than  what 
chopped-up  vegetables  can  be  placed  on  a  large-size  din- 
ner-plate or  soup-plate.  Fresh,  crisp  salad  vegetables 
take  up  much  room,  but  when  thoroughly  masticated  they 
are  reduced  to  at  least  one-third  the  space  occupied  pre- 
vious to  being  eaten. 

On  the  subject  of  eating,  doctors  and  patients  know, 
or  think  they  know,  that  it  is  necessary  to  eat  freely  of 
"good,  nourishing  food,**  consisting  of  a  goodly  supply 
of  proteids — meats  or  animal  foods  of  all  kinds,  whole 
grains  of  all  kinds,  and  dry  beans  and  peas;  carbohy- 
drates— starches  and  sugars;  and  hydrocarbon — fats.  If 
fruits  or  succulent  vegetables  are  eaten  at  all,  it  is  with 
apologies  to  their  digestive  organs  for  imposing  on  them 
such  bulky  and  unimportant  foods. 

The  consequence  of  such  an  acid-producing  style  of 
living  is  a  body  surcharged  with  acid  poisoning,  causing 
all  sorts  of  diseases — enervating  both  mind  and  body, 
and,  neither  last  nor  least,  causing  early  death. 

Fruit  and  succulent  vegetables,  properly  proportioned 
with  staple  foods,  will  immunize  against  the  diseases  that 
are  to  be  found  everywhere,  resulting  from  overeating  on 
staple  foods  recognized  as  life  dependents. 

The  potentially  acid  foods  may  be  said  to  be  all  ani- 
mal foods  and  all  cooked  foods,  including  fruits  and 
vegetables,  except  potatoes,  dry  beans,  and  peas. 

The  potentially  alkaline  are  the  raw  fruits  and  vege- 
tables; also  dry  beans  and  peas,  when  not  ruined  in 
cooking. 

FRUITS 

According  to  most  authorities  on  diet,  fruit  is  con- 
sidered of  little  value.  They  declare  that  fruit  carries 
very  little  nutriment.    This  I  consider  a  very  great  mis- 


Fruits 


199 


take.  Fruit  is  a  most  valuable  food.  It  not  only  carries 
starch,  but  it  carries  sugar  and  tissue  salts,  and  the  tissue 
salts  are  of  great  importance.  When  this  same  class  of 
authors  have  a  case  of  anemia  presented,  they  know  the 
importance  of  iron.  Instead  of  giving  drug  irons,  they 
would  have  very  much  better  results  if  they  would  feed 
fresh,  uncooked  fruit;  for  this  class  of  food  presents  the 
mineral  elements  of  the  body  in  a  manner  that  is  easily 


Material 


Apples  

Apricots  

Bananas  

Blackberries. . 

Cherries  

Cranberries.  . 
Figs  (fresh).  . 

Grapes  

Lemons  

Muskmelons . 

Oranges  

Peaches  

Pears  

Plums  

Strawberries. , 
Watermelons. 


Fuel 

Carbo- 

Value 

Water 

Protein 

Fat 

hydrates 

Ash 

per 

Pound 

84.6 

0.4 

0.5 

14.2 

0.3 

285 

85.0 

1.0 

13.4 

0.5 

263 

75.3 

1.3 

0.6 

22.0 

0.8 

447 

86.3 

1.3 

1.0 

10.9 

0.5 

262 

80.9 

1.0 

0.8 

16.7 

0.6 

354 

88.9 

0.4 

0.6 

9.9 

0.2 

212 

79.1 

1.5 

18.8 

0.6 

368 

77.4 

1.3 

1.6 

19.2 

0.5 

437 

89.3 

1.0 

0.7 

8.5 

0.5 

201 

89.5 

0.6 

9.3 

0.6 

180 

86.9 

0.8 

0.2 

11.6 

0.5 

233 

89.4 

0.7 

0.1 

9.4 

0.4 

188 

84.4 

0.6 

0.5 

14.1 

0.4 

288 

78.4 

1.0 

20.1 

0.5 

383 

90.4 

1.0 

0.6 

7.4 

0.6 

177 

92.4 

0.4 

0.2 

6.7 

0.1 

57 

assimilated,  whereas  mineral  or  drug  irons  are  absolutely 
refused  by  the  system,  and  not  only  do  no  good,  but  do 
harm  to  digestion  from  their  local  irritating  effects  on  the 
stomach  and  bowels.  The  tables  on  food  values  ascribe 
to  fruit:  sugar,  a  small  amount  of  nitrogenous  matter,  cel- 
lulose, starches,  organic  acids,  and  a  vegetable  jelly 
called  *  'pec  tin,*  *  which  causes  fruit  to  gelatinize  when 
boiled.  The  sugar  present  in  fruit  is  what  is  known  as 
fruit  sugar  or  levulose.  Some  fruits  contain  considerable 
cane  sugar.  Fresh  fruit  contains  from  seventy-five  to 
ninety  per  cent  of  water.  It  is  a  distilled  water,  so  to 
speak.    Fruit  contains  less  earthy  salts  than  other  foods. 


200 


Food 


The  principal  mineral  element  is  that  of  potash,  united 
with  tartaric,  citric,  and  malic  acid. 

Fruit  stands  first  in"  importance  as  an  anti-scorbutus 
agent.  People  who  proportion  their  meals  well — who 
select  a  proper  dietetic  blend — will  not  develop  diseases 
of  a  scorbutic  character.  The  disease  known  as  scorbutus 
is  based  on  an  acid  condition  of  the  system,  due  to  eating 
foods  which  are  acid-producing.  Inasmuch  as  all  raw 
fruits  and  raw  vegetables  are  potentially  alkaline,  it 
should  be  apparent  to  any  thinking  mind  how  necessary 
it  is  to  have  a  certain  amount  of  raw  fruit  and  vegetables 
in  every  day's  dietary. 

Scorbutus,  or  scurvy,  is  common  to  people  who  are 
deprived  of  fresh  fruit  and  vegetables.  Sailors  frequently 
evolve  this  disease  when  kept  away  from  land  for  a  long 
time. 

Most  authors  declare  that  stewed  fruits  are  more 
easily  digested  than  raw  fruits.  This  may  be  true  to  a 
certain  extent,  but  it  does  not  prove  that  raw  fruits  are 
not  best.  Indeed,  comparison  between  raw  fruits  and 
cooked  fruits  is  very  greatly  in  favor  of  the  former,  from 
the  standpoint  of  nourishment.  There  is  little  left  of  the 
nourishing  properties  of  fruit  when  cooked.  Baked  apple 
is  pleasant,  because  one  is  conscious  of  having  had  some- 
thing to  eat;  but,  aside  from  the  dressing  of  sugar  and 
cream,  there  is  little  to  recommend  it,  as  its  alkaline  po- 
tentiality is  made  nil  by  cooking;  whereas  a  raw  fruit  car- 
ries life  into  the  system  by  way  of  important  food  ele- 
ments— the  base  salts. 

Oranges,  lemons,  grapes,  and  peaches  are  classed  as 
easy  of  digestion,  whereas  raw  apples,  pears,  and  bananas 
are  somewhat  less  digestible.  The  pears,  however,  are 
more  laxative  and  should  be  thought  of  when  constipation 
is  to  be  overcome.  In  hot  weather,  lemons  and  limes 
should  be  taken  by  those  who  are  obese.  People  who 
are  overweight  should  be  careful  of  sweets  of  all  kinds. 


Fruits 


201 


Combinations. — For  people  who  are  overweight  the 
proper  regimen  would  be  fruit  for  breakfast;  lemonade 
if  desired,  but  the  lemonade  should  be  made  with  very 
little  sugar  or  none  at  all;  at  noon,  fish,  meat,  or  eggs, 
with  a  combination  salad.  This  meal  may  be  accom- 
panied with  lemon  or  lime  juice  in  the  form  of  lemonade. 
The  meat  dinners  should  be  taken  every  other  day,  and 
the  alternate  days  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables  with  a 
combination  salad;  lemonade  if  desired.  The  evening 
meal  should  be  fruit  and  lemonade,  or  fruit  and  ice- 
cream; or  once  or  twice  a  week  custard  with  fruit;  occa- 
sionally apple  pie  and  fruit,  or  an  ounce  of  cheese  with 
fresh  fruit,  or  fruit  and  buttermilk. 

For  people  who  are  under  normal  weight  the  sweet 
fruits  should  be  used,  avoiding  the  fruits  that  are  decid- 
edly tart.  Oranges  should  be  sweet;  lemons  should  not 
be  eaten  on  account  of  their  anti-fat  properties.  In  the 
winter  time,  raisins,  dates,  and  figs  may  be  used  for  one 
meal  a  day,  with  milk,  cottage  cheese,  or  cream  cheese; 
and  then  one  meal  of  toasted  bread,  or  any  cereal  that 
may  be  desired.  Those  who  are  not  troubled  with  ca- 
tarrh may  use  milk  with  this  meal.  Where  there  is  a 
decided  catarrhal  condition,  milk  and  cream  should  be 
avoided,  except  what  little  is  taken  into  the  system  by 
using  teakettle  tea — one-third  milk,  two-thirds  boiling 
water,  and  no  sugar;  for  those  who  are  troubled  with  a 
great  deal  of  catarrh  should  avoid  sweets  as  well  as  milk 
and  cream.  The  dinner  should  be  the  same  as  for  those 
who  are  obese — namely,  meat,  cooked,  non-starchy  vege- 
tables, and  salad  every  other  day;  but  on  alternate  days 
a  decidedly  starchy  food  with  the  salad  and  vegetables. 

NUTS 

Nuts,  according  to  many  authors,  contain  a  large 
quantity  of  fat.  They  are  said  to  have  but  little  food 
value,  and  are  eaten  mostly  as  a  dessert.    This  is  a  very 


202 


Food 


great  mistake.  Nuts  should  never  be  used  as  dessert.  It 
would  be  as  reasonable  to  take  a  piece  of  fat  beefsteak 
for  dessert  as  to  take  nuts.  The  eating  of  the  average 
individual  is  so  abominable  that  instructions  on  right  lines 
will  appear  to  be  inefficient  for  a  supporting  diet.  The 
truth  of  the  matter  is  that  the  average  person  could  live 
long  and  have  good  health  on  one-fourth  of  the  amount 
consumed  at  present. 


Material 

Water 

Protein 

Fat 

Carbo- 
hydrates 

Ash 

Fuel 
Value 

per 
Pound 

Almonds  

4.8 

21.0 

54.9 

17.3 

2.0 

2940 

5.3 

17.0 

66.8 

7.0 

3.9 

3162 

45.0 

6.2 

5.4 

42.1 

1.3 

1097 

Cocoanut(without  milk) 

8.9 

3.6 

31.7 

17.5 

1.0 

1677 

2.7 

9.6 

70.5 

15.3 

1.9 

3330 

Walnuts  

2.5 

18.4 

64.4 

13.0 

1.7 

3200 

The  idea  that  a  food  which  contains  from  three  to 
twenty-one  per  cent  protein,  from  five  to  seventy  per 
cent  fat,  and  from  seven  to  seventeen  per  cent  carbohy- 
drates is  of  no  value,  is  too  absurd  to  be  repeated. 

Nuts  are  a  valuable  food.  When  eaten  in  the  right 
proportion  with  fruit  and  cheese,  they  will  give  a  well- 
balanced  bill-of-fare.  Nuts,  like  beans,  carry  so  much 
cellulose  that  it  makes  them  hard  to  digest.  This  is  one 
reason,  I  presume,  why  they  are  not  more  popular  as  a 
staple  food. 

Because  of  the  high  cost  of  living,  it  would  be  well 
for  nuts  to  receive  more  attention  as  a  food.  I  am  satis- 
fied that,  by  educating  the  people  into  their  use  with 
other  foods,  they  can  be  made  to  take  the  place  of  meat 
and  help  bring  down  the  high  cost  of  living. 

Almonds. — Almonds  contain  much  fat,  no  starch,  and 
very  little  sugar.  They  are  said  to  be  used  as  bread  for 
diabetes.  It  is  very  far-fetched  to  use  simply  a  fatty 
food  for  diabetic  subjects.    Diabetes,  the  same  as  all  dis- 


NUTi 


203 


eases,  must  be  treated  according  to  the  needs  of  the  pa- 
tient, no  two  being  alike.  Almonds,  peanuts,  cheese, 
and  fruit  make  a  substantial  meal. 

Chestnuts. — The  chestnut  contains  a  small  amount 
of  oil  and  a  very  large  proportion  of  carbohydrates.  If 
eaten  with  almonds  and  fruit,  they  would  make  a  very 
good  meal. 

Walnuts. — The  walnut  contains  a  large  proportion  of 
protein,  but  it  is  quite  indigestible.  It  is  probable  that  the 
indigestibility  is  due  to  the  brown  covering,  which  con- 
tains tannin  and  is  irritating  to  many  stomachs.  If  the 
walnut  meats  could  be  blanched,  this  nut  would  make  an 
ideal  food.  I  do  not  mean  that  it  is  an  ideal  food  in  the 
sense  that  it  represents  all  the  food  elements  required, 
but  it  contains  18.4  per  cent  of  protein.  Then,  if  al- 
monds, which  carry  fat,  and  a  combination  salad  or  fruit, 
be  added,  this  would  balance  the  properties,  so  that,  if 
these  two  nuts  were  eaten  with  fruit  or  a  combination 
salad,  this  meal  might  be  said  to  be  a  very  good  dietetic 
blend. 

Pecans. — The  pecan  is  a  growing  favorite.  I  think 
it  is  worthy  of  general  adoption.  Some  nuts  have  more 
proteid,  and  some  have  more  fat;  but  the  pecan  is  a 
splendidly  flavored  nut,  and  is  enjoyed  by  all  people  who 
care  nothing  at  all  for  nuts. 

About  forty  half-meats  of  the  average  pecan  are 
enough  for  one  meal,  along  with  vegetables  and  salad  in 
about  the  proportion  that  these  vegetables  would  be  taken 
with  a  meat  meal.  To  raise  the  proteid  equivalent,  and 
also  the  fat,  it  would  be  well  to  combine  as  follows :  Serve 
a  small  dish  of  cottage  cheese,  forty  half  nut  meats  of  the 
pecan,  with  two  ounces  of  sweet  fruits — raisins,  dates,  or 
figs;  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables,  and  a  combination 
salad;  or,  if  it  is  not  convenient  to  have  the  vegetables, 
use  a  half-pound  of  fresh  fruit — I  mean  any  kind  of 


204 


Food 


fresh  fruit  that  is  in  season.  Apples  do  very  well  in  the 
winter  time. 

Brazil  Nuts. — The  Brazil  nut  is  another  variety  that 
is  deserving  of  great  favor.  Some  people  imagine  it  is 
too  fat  and  hard  to  digest.  This  is  a  mistake.  I  have 
found  that  twenty  half-meats  of  the  pecan,  with  ten  me- 
dium-sized meats  of  the  Brazil  nuts,  are  enough  for  an 
ordinary  meal,  in  connection  with  the  foods  that  are 
commonly  prescribed  in  the  meat  meal. 

Cocoanuts. — The  cocoanut  is  indigestible  and  should 
not  be  used  as  a  food  by  people  who  have  trouble  with 
their  stomachs. 

Combinations. — Nuts  may  be  used  with  fruit.  So 
far  as  special  combinations  are  concerned,  nuts  should  be 
recognized  as  belonging  to  the  proteid  foods,  and  should 
be  combined  with  foods  that  are  usually  taken  with  meat, 
dry  beans  and  peas.  In  other  words,  I  class  nuts  with 
meat.  There  is  one  difference,  however,  and  that  is  that 
I  allow  the  eating  of  nuts  with  bread,  on  account  of  the 
large  amount  of  fat  contained  therein,  but  I  do  not  advise 
the  mixing  of  meat  with  starch  of  any  kind.  When  nuts 
are  to  be  taken  with  bread,  use  only  about  half  as  much 
butter  as  ordinarily  used  with  plain  bread  and  butter. 
A  good  combination  for  the  day  is:  fruit  for  breakfast; 
for  the  noon  meal,  two  ounces  of  cheese  and  nuts,  with 
some  simple  dessert,  such  as  fruit;  or,  in  the  winter  time, 
take  about  four  ounces  of  raisins  and  figs  for  the  noon 
meal;  then,  in  the  evening,  have  about  forty  pecan  meats, 
two  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables,  and  a  combination 
salad  with  a  little  fruit,  for  dinner. 

FUNGI 

Mushrooms. — Mushrooms  are  the  only  fungi  that  I 
care  to  mention,  as  I  never  recommend  any.  To  me  the 
mushroom,  and  other  growths  coming  under  the  head  of 
fungi,  are  vegetable  cancers,  tumors,  etc.     There  are 


Fungi 


205 


quite  a  variety  of  mushrooms,  and  we  frequently  hear  of 
people  being  poisoned  by  their  use.  Some  people  declare 
that  mushrooms  are  praised  chiefly  for  their  agreeable 
flavor.  I  have  never  been  fortunate  enough  to  find  any 
taste  at  all  to  mushrooms.  It  is  just  possible  that  they 
may  taste  of  the  beef  or  fat  with  which  they  are  served. 
It  is  said  that  they  possess  some  nutritive  value.  I  might 
just  as  well  have  left  out  the  subject  of  mushrooms;  for  I 
never  recommend  them,  and  I  have  never  taken  the 
trouble  to  ascertain  what  amount  of  nutritive  material 
they  contain,  because  there  is  no  trouble  about  finding 
other  foods  which  contain  so  much  more  that  it  is  a  waste 
of  time  and  material  to  advocate  the  use  of  the  vegetable 
tumors. 


CHAPTER  V 


SUGAR 

UGAR"  is  a  general  name  for  a  class  of  com- 
pounds belonging  to  the  group  of  carbohy- 
drates. 

Chemically,    sugars   are   divided  into: 
cane  sugar   (the  ordinary  sugar  of  com- 
merce), C^H^O^;  glucose  (grape  sugar  or 
starch  sugar),  C6H1206;  and  lactose  (sugar  of 
milk),  C12H22On  +  H20. 

Saccharine  is  derived  from  coal  tar,  and  is  280  times 
sweeter  than  cane  sugar.  It  is  used  as  a  substitute  for 
cane  sugar  in  diabetes,  but  is  of  no  special  value  in  the 
disease.  It  is  aseptic — not  taking  on  decomposition. 
Mineral  differs  from  vegetable  and  animal  in  that  it  does 
not  become  septic  as  animal  matter  does,  or  decompose 
as  vegetable  matter  does. 

An  excess  of  sugar  above  the  requirements  for  energy 
is  retained  in  the  body,  in  the  form  of  either  glycogen  or 
fat. 

Glycogen  (C6H10O5)  is  known  as  animal  starch. 
Starch  (C6H10O5),  a  widely  spread  plant  substance,  is 
found  in  nearly  all  plants  above  the  fungus.  Starch  is  a 
heat-  and  force-producer.  Rice  contains  the  greatest  per- 
centage of  starch — from  76  to  87.  Sago,  tapioca,  arrow- 
root, corn  flour,  and  maizina  (ma-zi-na — flour  made  from 
maize)  are  in  the  class  with  rice,  containing  about  83  per 
cent  starch.  Pearl  barley  contains  from  38  to  76  per 
cent,  and  fine  white  flour,  74.  Wheat,  rye,  maize,  millet, 
and  Scotch  oats  range  from  44  to  54  to  71 ;  beans,  peas, 
bread,  whole  oats,  and  lentils,  from  36  to  52. 


Sugar 


207 


Sugar  is  found  in  all  vegetables.  It  is  a  carbohy- 
drate, and  all  the  carbohydrates  contain  hydrogen  and 
oxygen  in  the  proportion  in  which  they  form  water — 
that  is,  two  atoms  of  hydrogen  and  one  of  oxygen — and 
usually  six  carbon  atoms,  or  some  multiple  of  six. 

While  all  vegetables  and  fruits  carry  sugar,  only  two 
— the  sugar-cane  and  sugar-beet — play  an  important  part 
in  the  world's  supply  of  sugar.  The  maple  and  palm  trees 
furnish  a  small  amount,  but  not  enough  to  make  a  very 
large  showing  in  the  general  reckoning. 

The  production  of  raw  sugar  from  sugar-cane  is  a 
wonderful  industry.  Cane  resembles  corn,  but  grows 
very  high. 

In  growing  a  crop  of  cane,  the  tops  of  the  preceding 
crop  are  cut  off  and  planted  in  plowed  furrows,  and  cul- 
tivated until  the  rainy  season,  after  which  there  is  no 
more  cultivation.  In  this  country  the  cane  is  not  allowed 
to  grow  more  than  ten  or  eleven  months  before  it  is  cut, 
but  in  Honolulu  it  can  be  grown  for  two  years  without 
cutting.  In  our  southern  states  the  weather  is  inclined  to 
be  a  little  too  frosty  to  allow  the  cane  to  grow  too  long 
without  receiving  attention.  It  is  cut  down  and  stripped 
of  its  leaves.  The  industry  has  grown  to  such  propor- 
tions that  now  wonderful  machinery  is  employed  to  do 
the  work. 

Cane  is  grown  in  tropical  and  semi-tropical  countries. 
It  reaches  a  height  of  from  six  to  twelve  feet.  Its  native 
home  is  India,  and  it  is  mentioned  in  the  old  sacred  books 
of  the  Hindus  and  in  ancient  Chinese  writings,  centuries 
before  Christ.  The  soldiers  of  Alexander  the  Great 
brought  back  great  stories  about  the  wonderful  reed 
which  yielded  a  juice  as  sweet  as  honey.  The  Persians 
and  Arabs  carried  the  cultivation  of  the  sugar-cane  west- 
ward. Sugar  was  grown  and  refined  in  the  valleys  of  the 
Tigris  and  the  Euphrates  as  early  as  the  tenth  century 
before  Christ.    The  crusaders  found  sugar-cane  and  sugar 


Food 


factories  in  Syria  and  Palestine,  and  brought  back  sam- 
ples of  the  product.  The  Saracens  introduced  the  culti- 
vation of  sugar-cane .  into  Sicily,  and  the  Moors  into 
Spain. 

Chocolate  has  a  heat  value  of  2,772  calories  per 
pound — one-third  more  than  pure  sugar.  It  is  thus  ob- 
vious that  chocolate  candy  is  a  greater  tax  on  the  diges- 
tion than  pure  sugar. 

The  body  is  supposed  to  require  about  2,000  heat 
units  each  day,  and  when  a  pound  of  bread,  two  ounces 
of  butter,  and  eight  ounces  of  meat  are  eaten,  more  than 
2,000  heat  units  have  been  taken.  Where,  then,  does 
the  heat  supplied  by  the  sugar-consumer  go — what  be- 
comes of  the  surplus  heat? 

One  pound  of  bread  furnishes  1,100  calories,  six 
ounces  of  meat  furnish  from  250  to  450  calories,  and  two 
ounces  of  butter  add  about  436  more  heat  units.  Many 
people  eat  two  or  three  kinds  of  starch  and  fat  with  every 
meal,  besides  meat,  fried  eggs,  and  perhaps  breakfast 
bacon.  There  are  a  great  many  people  who  eat  food 
representing  4,000  units  of  heat,  when  they  require  not 
more  than  half  that  amount. 

The  present  per-capita  consumption  of  sugar  in  Eng- 
land is  95  pounds;  in  the  United  States,  85;  Germany, 
49;  France,  43;  Austria,  25;  Russia,  24;  Turkey,  20; 
Spain,  16;  Italy,  11.  The  Italians  use  a  great  deal  of 
fat  and  oil,  and  that  is  true  of  most  of  the  countries  which 
do  not  use  so  much  sugar  as  we  do. 

The  fuel  value  of  sugar  being  about  1,800  calories 
per  pound,  the  calories  furnished  by  sugar,  according  to 
the  per-capita  consumption,  amount  to  about  450  each 
day  to  every  person  in  the  United  States.  About  one- 
fifth  of  the  energy  requirement  is  being  supplied  by  eating 
sugar. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  harm  accruing  from  the  eating 
of  sugar  is  that  it  supplants  more  important  foods.  Not 


Sugar 


209 


only  do  our  bodies  require  energy,  but  the  fuel  must  be 
of  a  character  to  furnish  building  material. 

We  need  heat,  but  if  we  eat  a  preponderance  of  heat- 
producing  foods,  we  shall  in  time  run  out  of  the  elements 
that  build  tissue.  People  eating  in  this  way  will  grow 
white  around  the  mouth,  the  skin  becomes  blanched,  and 
the  doctors  talk  to  them  about  anemia,  bloodlessness, 
and  taking  iron  tonics.  Not  many  will  ask  about,  or  pay 
any  attention  to,  the  kind  of  food  being  eaten. 

Those  who  are  eating  foods  devoid  of  the  elements 
that  go  to  make  up  tissue  will  go  to  pieces.  The  tissues 
of  the  body  must  have  framework — there  must  be  cell 
salts  and  nitrogen;  and  sugar  does  not  furnish  either. 
What  is  it  that  makes  the  frame?  Not  sugar;  but  there 
is  sugar  in  all  material  that  helps  grow  the  framework — 
namely,  fruit  and  vegetables. 

Rice  is  a  very  favorite  food.  It  is  about  eighty-three 
per  cent  starch,  and  is  potentially  acid.  Let  those  who 
have  an  acid  state  of  the  body  from  overeating  on  sugar 
eat  much  rice,  and  they  will  have  an  acid  stomach  very 
soon  after  eating.  The  acid  poisons  the  blood,  the  oxy- 
gen-carriers are  killed  off,  and  the  patient  becomes  ane- 
mic and  cannot  carry  enough  oxygen  to  keep  alive. 

There  must  be  an  intake  of  protein  (tissue-building 
material)  and  salts,  such  as  phosphates  of  lime,  potash, 
iron,  and  other  essential  elements.  There  are  other  im- 
portant elements  that  we  do  not  understand  quite  so  well 
— normal  lipoids  and  vitamines,  which  are  cut  down 
about  thirty  per  cent  because  of  sugar  consumption,  and 
which  would  be  supplied  if,  in  place  of  sugar,  we  ate 
more  of  the  vital  foods. 

The  protein  foods  are  tissue-building;  they  are  nitro- 
genous foods.  All  meats  of  animals,  nearly  all  grains, 
and  dry  beans  and  peas  carry  proteid.  If  fruit  cooked 
with  sugar  is  eaten  with  these  foods,  there  will  be  devel- 


210 


Food 


oped  irritation  of  the  stomach,  and  those  who  eat  in  this 
way  will  soon  not  be. able  to  take  any  food  with  comfort. 

By  cloying  the  appetite,  sugar  has  a  tendency  to  sup- 
plant other  foods  of  greater  value.  People  who  eat  much 
cake  and  pastry  sooner  or  later  become  dysemic — the 
blood  becomes  impoverished  and  lacking  in  mineral  ele- 
ments, because  such  food  does  not  furnish  these  elements. 

The  objection  to  sugar  does  not  apply  in  the  same 
degree  to  molasses  and  other  syrups  which  contain  the 
natural  ash  constituents  of  the  plant  juices.  Molasses  is 
potentially  alkaline,  but,  on  account  of  its  being  a  by- 
product of  sugar-making,  the  ash  constituents  may  be 
so  distorted  that,  instead  of  being  potentially  alkaline, 
it  may  be  potentially  acid.  When  molasses  has  been 
added  to  soils,  it  has  caused  an  acid  fermentation — this 
in  relation  to  the  question  of  its  being  used  as  a  fertilizer. 

Molasses  contains  the  ash  that  belongs  to  the  plant, 
and  is  so  concentrated  that  it  is  rendered  unfit  as  a  food. 

Most  of  the  syrup  placed  on  the  market  today  is  a 
by-product  of  sugar-making,  and  it  contains  a  great  deal 
more  ash  than  is  natural  to  it.  The  heat  of  cooking  has 
changed  its  potentiality,  as  proved  in  using  syrup  as  fer- 
tilizer. It  always  brings  on  fermentation  when  mixed 
with  other  fertilizers.  It  produces  acidity  of  the  stomach 
when  eaten  with  bread  or  other  starchy  foods.  Syrup 
can  be  used  on  cakes  for  breakfast,  but  if  enough  is  eaten 
to  overtax  digestion,  an  acid  stomach  will  follow.  If  the 
digestion  is  slow,  sugar  or  syrup  added  to  the  breakfast 
will  cause  fermentation  a  few  hours  after  breakfast.  If 
there  is  catarrh  of  the  stomach,  it  takes  the  digestive 
secretions  and  the  food  a  good  while  to  get  together, 
on  account  of  the  walls  of  the  stomach  being  covered 
with  catarrhal  secretion;  the  delay  causes  the  food  to  be 
thrown  into  a  state  of  fermentation.  One  reason  why 
people  with  catarrh  of  the  stomach  should  not  have  bread 
and  sugar,  or  mush  and  sugar,  in  the  same  meal,  is  that 


Sugar 


211 


digestion  is  so  slow  that  fermentation  takes  place.  Espe- 
cially is  this  true  if  the  bread  is  yeast  bread.  Sugar  and 
molasses  are  more  or  less  topical  irritants,  and  favor  the 
building  of  catarrh. 

An  individual  in  health  can  walk  off  with  a  good,  big 
breakfast,  or  other  meal,  of  cooked  fruit,  sugar,  and 
starch,  and  he  can  digest  it  without  apparent  trouble; 
but  the  sick  man  must  have  his  food  especially  fitted  to 
him.  It  would  be  impossible  to  write  a  book  that  would 
exactly  suit  all  people.  The  sick  must  be  coached  into 
health  by  someone  who  knows  how  to  adjust  food  to  the 
most  exacting  demands.  Books  are  for  helping  those  who 
are  well  to  stay  in  health.  Those  who  have  chronic  dis- 
eases must  be  trained  out  of  their  diseases.  It  requires  an 
expert  dietitian,  as  well  as  psychologist,  to  lead  a  certain 
class  of  people  out  of  disease  into  health. 

Sugar  is  not  digested  in  the  stomach,  but  in  the  in- 
testines. If  digestion  is  slow  in  the  stomach,  and  sugar 
is  retained  there  any  length  of  time,  fermentation  follows. 
Continue  eating  sugar  under  such  conditions  day  after 
day,  and  irritation  and  inflammation  are  built;  then  ulcer- 
ation follows,  and  later  on  cancer  develops.  That  is  one 
way  in  which  a  cancer  is  built. 

When  there  is  catarrh  of  the  stomach,  it  is  obviously 
impossible  to  get  well  and  indulge  one's  self  occasionally 
with  sugar. 

Stay  away  from  sugar,  and  get  the  necessary  sweet 
by  eating  fruits  only.  The  sugar  of  fruit  does  not  cause 
irritation.  Pure  sugar  is  an  irritant  to  all  mucous  mem- 
branes, and  is  quite  capable  of  preventing  irritation,  in- 
flammation, and  ulceration  from  getting  well. 

Put  sugar  into  the  mouth,  and  the  mouth  fills  with 
saliva.  The  sugar  causes  mucus,  as  well  as  the  secretions 
from  the  glands,  to  flow.  The  same  condition  is  pro- 
duced in  the  stomach  when  the  sugar  reaches  that  organ. 
It  causes  a  great  flow  of  fluid.    Sugar  bleeds  the  body — 


212 


Food 


it  carries  too  much  fluid  from  the  blood-vessels;  hence  it 
is  a  form  of  bleeding.  Those  who  cannot  digest  well, 
because  of  having  too  much  fluid  in  the  stomach,  must 
be  fed  dry  foods.  Anyone  in  this  condition  will  flood 
his  digestive  organs  with  secretions  by  eating  sugar.  So 
long  as  sugar  is  eaten,  a  cure  is  impossible  in  all  diseases 
accompanied  by  a  large  secretion. 

The  carbohydrates  include  the  simple  sugars  and  all 
the  substances  which  can  be  split  into  simple  sugars  by 
hydrolysis. 

The  simple  sugars  have  one  sugar  radical  in  the 
molecule,*  and  are  called  "monosaccharids."  Those  con- 
taining two  sugar  radicals  are  "disaccharids."  Starch 
and  dextrin  are  of  high  molecular  weight,  each  molecule 
containing  many  monosaccharids,  and  they  are  therefore 
called  "polysaccharids." 

The  monosaccharids  are  glucose,  fructose,  galactose, 
and  mannose.  They  consist  of  only  one  sugar  radical  in 
the  molecule. 

A  water  molecule  consists  of  H20 — two  atoms  of 
hydrogen  and  one  of  oxygen.  A  monosaccharid  mole- 
cule consists  of  C6H1206. 

The  monosaccharids  are  simple  sugar  molecules 
which  cannot  be  split  by  decomposition,  digestion,  or  fer- 
mentation. The  monosaccharids  are  absorbed  as  such. 
They  are  found  in  the  blood  of  animals,  and  in  fruit  and 
plant  juices.  Grapes  contain  much  in  the  form  of  grape 
sugar  or  glucose. 

Glucose  is  also  obtained  through  hydrolyzing  starch 
by  acids  or  by  enzymes.  This  is  the  principal  form  in 
which  the  carbohydrates  are  taken  up  by  digestion. 

*  Molecule:  the  smallest  quantity  of  a  substance  that  can 
exist  in  a  free  state.  A  molecule  may  be  chemically  separated 
into  two  or  more  atoms.  The  integrity  and  properties  of  a 
substance  reside  in  its  molecules. 


Sugar 


213 


Sugar  Enervates  the  Digestive  Organs. — The  starches 
are  energy-giving  foods,  but  they  must  be  converted  into 
glucose  before  they  can  be  absorbed;  and  if  they  are  not 
converted  into  sugar,  they  may  as  well  not  be  eaten,  for 
they  will  not  be  utilized  as  a  food.  When  starch  is  di- 
gested, it  is  equivalent  to  eating  sugar,  plus  this  advan- 
tage over  eating  pure  sugar,  that  the  digestive  and  nutri- 
tive organs  are  exercised  and  the  functions  brought  out. 
The  digestive  organs  are  made  to  work  when  starchy 
foods  are  eaten,  whereas,  in  feeding  simple  sugar,  there  is 
little  exercise  of  the  digestive  organs,  and  they  become 
enervated  from  disuse.  This  is  not  all;  everything  of  a 
nutritive  character  peculiar  to  the  carbohydrate  foods — 
such  as  protein,  starch,  oil,  and,  neither  last  nor  least, 
cell  salts — is  excluded  when  pure  sugar  is  eaten;  for  all 
the  elements  of  the  plant  are  excluded  in  making  sugar. 
What  are  the  mineral  elements  left  out?  Soda,  magnesia, 
potash,  iron,  and  others,  all  of  which  are  as  necessary  to 
the  organism  as  sugar — and  more  so,  because  the  body 
can  get  on  forever  without  sugar  as  sugar.  All  the  sugar 
needed  can  be  found  in  fruits  and  vegetables.  The  tissue- 
building  material  is  taken  in  with  the  natural  foods.  The 
body  cannot  maintain  health  without  potash,  soda,  lime, 
iron,  etc. ;  for  these  elements  are  necessary  in  tissue- 
building.  This  is  one  reason  why  I  advise,  and  am  con- 
tinually insisting  on,  the  daily  use  of  fresh,  uncooked 
fruits  and  vegetables. 

Those  who  live  without  raw  fruit  and  vegetables,  re- 
fined flour,  bread,  and  meats,  become  dysemic;  they  are 
pale;  their  breath  is  bad;  they  not  only  lack  iron  in  the 
blood,  but  they  lack  soda,  potash,  magnesia,  phosphorus, 
etc.;  they  lack  everything  that  helps  a  man  stand  up  and 
look  like  health. 

Disease  is  what  people  buy,  paying  with  their  health, 
for  eating  sugar,  candy,  cake,  bread,  meat,  doughnuts, 
preserves,  coffee,  tea,  and  the  foods  ordinarily  placed  on 


214 


Food 


the  family  dinner-table.  The  people  who  eat  in  this  way 
are  those  who  often  say  that  they  cannot  eat  fruit — that 
fruit  never  agrees  with  them.  When  their  eating  habits 
are  known,  they  will  usually  be  found  to  be  sugar-eaters. 

When  we  have  transgressed  the  laws  of  digestion 
just  about  so  long,  nature  takes  a  hand  and  helps  us  kill 
ourselves. 

Whenever  a  man  is  not  happy  a  minute  without  his 
drink;  restless  without  his  cigar  or  tobacco;  restless,  nerv- 
ous, and  irritable  without  his  customary  supply  of  bread, 
butter,  coffee,  tea,  candy,  or  other  stimulants,  nature  is 
helping  him  kill  himself,  by  taking  away  normal  hunger 
and  keeping  him  away  from  the  foods  that  will  save  his 
life.  This  is  where  perverted  nature  gets  behind  and 
pushes  us  deeper  and  deeper  into  digestive  troubles. 

Sugar,  as  well  as  other  stimulants  taken  to  excess — 
eaten  as  a  habit — brings  about  a  state  of  the  nervous 
system  which  will  kill  with  disease  in  the  course  of  time. 

Starch  can  be  looked  upon  as  sugar;  for  when  di- 
gested it  first  becomes  maltose,  then  glucose. 

In  the  body,  glucose  of  the  blood  is  constantly  being 
burned  and  resupplied. 

In  diabetes  the  body  fails  to  burn  the  glucose.  It 
then  accumulates  in  excessive  amounts  in  the  blood  and 
escapes  by  way  of  the  kidneys. 

The  body  carries  about  a  day's  supply  of  glucose; 
but  if  starch  and  sugar  are  cut  off,  after  twenty-four 
hours  it  begins  to  manufacture  sugar  out  of  its  own  tissues, 
and  there  is  a  gradual  loss  of  weight  until  carbohydrate- 
eating  is  resumed. 

It  is  all  right  to  stop  eating  occasionally  and  use  up 
the  sugar  as  well  as  the  surplus  tissue.  It  is  a  fine  way  to 
clean  house.  It  gives  an  opportunity  to  renew  tissue  and 
get  a  normal  appetite  and  good  health.  When  nature 
is  given  an  opportunity,  she  reconstructs  well. 


Sugar 


215 


If  people  who  get  down  with  typhoid  or  other  fevers 
stop  eating,  take  no  drugs,  and  rest,  they  beat  the  dis- 
ease, and  the  doctor  too;  but  when  fed  and  medicated, 
if  they  get  well  at  all,  it  is  by  the  skin  of  their  teeth,  and 
often  they  are  left  with  organic  diseases  of  the  kidneys  or 
some  other  organ.  If  the  organs  are  left  intact  after  such 
a  siege,  patients  are  often  in  better  health  than  they  were 
for  year3  before,  because  they  are  thoroughly  cleared  out. 

Disaccharids  contain  two  molecules  of  sugar,  and  the 
compound  is  C12H22011.  The  principal  sugars  of  this 
class  are  sucrose  (cane  sugar),  lactose  (milk  sugar),  and 
maltose  (malt  sugar). 

Sucrose  from  cane  or  beets,  as  stated  before,  is  made 
into  sugar  by  evaporation. 

There  is  a  vast  difference  between  the  juice  of  the 
cane,  and  sugar.  Every  life-giving  element  is  left  behind 
in  making  sugar. 

Alcohol  is  made  from  grain,  but  there  is  a  vast  dif- 
ference between  whiskey  and  corn  bread. 

Refined  foods  are  the  cause  of  much  of  civilization's 
sickness. 

When  people  get  pale,  the  doctors  say  they  need  to 
take  iron  or  phosphates.  The  medical  men  seldom  think 
of  correcting  the  lives  of  the  patients  by  giving  them  the 
proper  food,  but  they  send  them  away  with  a  prescrip- 
tion calling  for  phosphates,  and  often  something  to  make 
the  heart  a  little  more  active.  Drugs  can  do  nothing; 
they  cannot  cure  wrong  eating  and  bad  habits.  The  pa- 
tients' habits  must  be  corrected.  If  such  patients  would 
refuse  to  take  drugs,  and  add  fruit  and  a  combination 
salad  to  their  dinner  menus,  within  a  week  they  would 
feel  better.  The  elements  as  found  in  drug  stores  are 
carried  into  the  system  in  such  a  way  that  the  body  can- 
not assimilate  them.    If  the  body  could  utilize  them — 


216 


Food 


take  care  of  them — in  that  form,  we  could  send  to  the 
chemist  and  get  our  food,  and  forget  the  grocer. 

Man  is  not  liable  to  overeat  on  uncooked  grain.  He 
can  digest  only  a  limited  amount  of  raw  starch;  hence 
there  is  no  chance  for  an  oversupply  of  sugar.  He  would 
not  eat  for  pleasure,  if  confined  to  plain  foods. 

By  wrong  eating,  the  teeth  of  the  people  are  rendered 
incapable  of  chewing  grain;  hence  all  the  grains  are  pre- 
pared by  cooking.  When  whole  grain  is  cooked,  it  is 
often  forced  upon  a  jaded  desire  by  adding  sugar  and 
cream.  If  the  dressings  were  left  off,  very  little,  com- 
paratively, would  be  eaten. 

After  eating  a  full  meal,  most  people  could  eat  a 
dish  of  berries,  if  dressed  with  a  little  sugar  and  cream. 
They  do  not  care  for  the  berries,  and  cannot  eat  them 
unless  dressing  is  added.  Sugar  becomes  a  menace  to 
health  by  inducing  people  to  eat  without  hunger. 

Plain  bread  without  dressing  will  not  be  eaten  in  such 
quantities  as  when  it  is  dressed.  It  is  the  soft-food  and 
sugar-eating,  without  appetite,  that  overtaxes  digestion 
and  produces  fermentation.  This  builds  an  acid  state, 
which  often  melts  down  the  teeth.  The  acid,  being  so 
sharp,  destroys  the  enamel,  and  the  teeth  decay.  Almost 
without  warning  the  teeth  are  ruined.  The  same  con- 
stitutional derangement  that  builds  adenitis  and  enlarged 
tonsils  builds  bad  teeth.  Of  all  dietetic  enemies  to  those 
in  this  state,  sugar  is  the  greatest. 

Overeating  is  the  bane  of  society,  and  sugar  is  the  prin- 
cipal persuader — the  palate-tickler — that  induces  over- 
eating. 

Hot  bread  and  cakes  would  not  be  eaten  in  one- 
third  the  quantities  they  are,  if  the  sweets  were  left  out 
of  the  meal.  If  the  maple  syrup  and  the  butter  are  good, 
it  is  possible  for  people  to  order  the  third  helping  of  hot 
cakes;  whereas,  if  the  sweet  and  fat  were  not  ideal,  one 


Sugar 


217 


serving  of  cakes  would  have  satisfied  natural  hunger  quite 
abundantly. 

Sweets,  puddings,  tarts,  cakes,  and  pastries  generally, 
tempt  the  appetite.  If  we  eat  the  right  food — good, 
plain  food — we  cannot  force  ourselves  to  take  more  than 
we  need. 

There  is  harm  in  having  a  great  variety,  because  it 
induces  overeating.  People  eat  all  they  want  of  plain 
food,  and  then  they  allow  themselves  to  eat  more  because 
the  desserts  are  made  very  tempting  to  taste. 

The  secret  of  overeating  is  that  such  foods  as  breads, 
puddings,  macaroni,  and  their  usual  adjuvants,  are  tasty 
and  attractive  long  after  a  sufficiency  has  been  eaten. 
This  tendency  to  please  the  palate  with  sugar  and  condi- 
ments not  only  forces  overeating,  but  removes  all  desire 
for  natural  foods,  and  people  who  have  given  the  subject 
of  eating  no  attention  will  naturally  drift  into  eating 
habits  that  create  disease;  for  they  will  eat  less  and  less 
of  foods  which  depurate  the  system,  and  more  and  more 
of  those  that  favor  retention  of  waste  and  fail  to  furnish 
the  vital  cell-building  materials. 

A  rational  dietary,  when  once  established,  never 
drives  to  overeating  and  never  drives  to  drink.  Those 
who  change  from  conventional  eating  to  that  which  is 
more  in  keeping  with  life  and  health  will,  for  a  few 
weeks,  feel  that  the  prescribed  foods  are  not  satisfying 
them;  and  they  are  not,  because  they  lack  in  stimulating 
qualities. 

People  who  are  taken  from  their  stimulating  foods  go 
down  in  strength  and  lose  weight.  They  feel  enervated. 
They  do  not  know  that  they  were  already  enervated  be- 
fore they  gave  up  their  stimulating  food;  but  they  cer- 
tainly feel  their  enervation  since  the  change  in  diet.  There 
is  no  difference,  except  in  degree,  between  sugar,  starch. 


218 


Food 


and  other  food  poisoning,  and  that  of  alcohol  and  other 
drugs. 

When  the  man  who  has  tippled  for  years  quits  drink- 
ing for  a  week,  he  is  thrown  into  delirium  tremens.  He 
was  enervated  before  he  quit  drinking,  but  he  kept  that 
condition — the  profound  enervation — from  coming  into 
consciousness  by  his  constant  use  of  stimulants.  Those 
who  are  food-poisoned — sugar-poisoned — are  the  same, 
only  in  a  less  degree.  When  the  food-poisoned  stop  their 
overstimulating  foods,  and  eat  only  normal  foods,  they 
begin  to  feel  that  they  have  no  energy.  They  are  really 
not  losing  ground — they  are  getting  to  a  point  where 
they  can  feel  their  normal  condition.  A  time  comes,  if 
the  treatment  is  carefully  carried  out,  when  the  original 
strength  all  returns;  but  it  cannot  be  brought  back  unless 
bad  habits  are  given  up  entirely.  Tippling  or  wrong  eat- 
ing must  stop,  and  the  victim  must  be  willing  to  go  down 
in  weight  and  strength,  and  then  come  up  again  on  the 
other  side.  The  case  is  the  same  with  food  poisoning  as 
with  drug  or  liquor  poisoning. 

Cereals  and  starchy  foods  must  be  cooked;  and  then 
they  are  not  palatable  without  dressings  for  those  who 
have  the  sugar  habit.  When  a  pampered  appetite  takes 
foods  that  are  prepared  artificially  and  made  to  please, 
eating  can  continue  long  after  needs  are  supplied.  This 
is  not  true  of  natural  foods. 

Sugar  Is  a  Deceptive  Food. — Sugar  relieves  fatigue, 
furnishes  heat — and  that,  too,  at  the  least  expenditure  of 
nerve  energy.  But  there  is  always  something  to  pay. 
We  cannot  get  something  for  nothing. 

Those  who  have  a  driving  desire  for  candy  may  take 
raisins,  dates,  or  figs  to  supply  that  desire,  and  after  a 
time  they  will  lose  their  desire  for  sugar  and  candy. 

Refined  Foods  Lack  in  Important  Elements. — The 
refining  of  foods  excludes  the  elements.    These  elements 


Sugar 


219 


can  be  substituted — most  of  them — but  at  the  loss  of  en- 
ergy from  disuse  of  the  organs  of  digestion. 

Diabetes  is  becoming  common.  It  is  a  disease  caused 
by  enervation  and  a  one-sided  eating.  The  disease  will 
become  more  common  as  the  people  become  more  ener- 
vated from  the  use  of  sugar  and  other  devitalized  foods. 

Athletes  have  proved  that  sugar  gives  them  strength. 
Sugar  has  been  given  race-horses  to  advantage  for  the 
time  being.  It  is  said  that  the  German  soldiers  have  been 
supplied  with  an  extra  quantity  of  sugar,  for  the  extra 
vigor  it  gives  them.  Anything  that  is  capable  of  giving 
artificial  strength  for  a  time  is  dangerous,  and  should  be 
used  sparingly  and  understandingly. 

The  athlete  is  notorious  for  the  rapidity  with  which 
he  goes  down  when  he  ceases  to  be  an  athlete.  We 
pay,  and  pay,  and  continue  to  pay,  for  everything  un- 
natural and  artificial. 

The  law  of  compensation  is  a  jealous  law,  and  it  will 
not  be  imposed  upon. 

Sugar-eating  belongs  to  the  vanities  of  life.  It  is  a 
habit — the  more  eaten,  the  more  wanted;  and,  like  all 
habits,  in  the  end  it  gives  more  discomfort  than  pleasure. 

When  the  desire  is  set  upon  anything  excessively,  the 
pleasure  is  killed  by  the  excess.  When  one  gets  to  crav- 
ing sugar,  sugar,  sugar,  nothing  but  sugar,  the  desire  is 
built  by  the  excess,  and  the  condition  is  that  of  disease, 
and  must  be  treated  as  such,  and  in  time,  or  health  will 
be  ruined. 

If  a  refined  food  be  eaten — a  food  that  does  not 
represent  more  than  one  need  of  the  body;  a  food  the 
cell-building  elements  of  which  are  left  out  in  its  refine- 
ment, as  they  are  in  the  manufacture  of  sugar,  and  the 
digestion  of  which  requires  no  effort  on  the  part  of  the 
organism — power  to  digest  is  lost,  because  man's  power 
to  digest  must  be  earned  by  the  sweat  of  his  face — by 


220 


Food 


work.  When  eating  of  refined  foods,  such  as  sugar,  the 
body  is  furnished  with  heat — nerve  energy — but  its  cell- 
life  is  not  exercised  in  a  way  to  keep  up  its  power.  Di- 
gestion must  have  work,  because  it  is  a  law  of  nature  that 
everything  must  earn  its  living — earn  its  life  and  power 
of  continuance — by  the  sweat  of  its  face.  Saving  the 
organism  the  labor  of  extracting  the  sugar  from  the  sugar 
plant  is  allowing  the  nutritive  function  to  drop  down  into 
idleness;  and  the  result  will  be  the  same  as  with  the  pam- 
pered boy — it  will  not  work  except  when  it  has  to: 
when  the  body  is  fed  with  enough  sugar  to  supply  the 
heat  demands  of  the  organism,  it  will  not  digest  starch. 
A  piece  of  bread  and  butter  will  not  be  digested  if  eaten 
when  enough  heat  is  supplied  by  sugar.  Nature — diges- 
tion— will  not  work  on  bread  and  butter  when  it  can  get 
sugar — when  it  can  get  the  energy  needed  out  of  sugar 
without  an  effort. 

Heat,  like  air,  must  be  had  at  the  price  of  labor. 
Incessant  labor  of  breathing  is  required  to  procure  the 
oxygen  necessary.  Heat  must  be  bought  by  the  great 
labor  of  extracting  it  from  starch.  Sugar,  clothing,  and 
artificial  heat  abridge  labor  and  bring  disease  from  lack 
of  the  developing  influence  of  labor. 

Starch  will  not  be  digested  when  the  organism  is  not 
in  need  of  heat.  It  will  be  left  to  ferment.  And  here  is 
where  we  get  fermentation — here  is  where  we  get  starch 
poisoning. 

Sugar  does  not  supply  the  body  with  the  elements  of 
renewal. 

Sugar  is  a  crystalline  substance  obtained  by  evapo- 
rating the  juice  of  the  cane  and  beet,  as  well  as  of  other 
plants;  and,  in  the  strictest  sense  of  the  word,  it  is  not  a 
food,  any  more  than  alcohol  and  wine  are  bread  and 
grapes. 

Sugar  is  freed  from  all  other  elements  in  the  plant; 
hence  it  does  not  represent  the  plant  from  which  it  was 


Sugar 


aii 


extracted,  but  it  is  an  artificial  product,  the  same  as 
quinine  is  an  alkaloid  of  the  Peruvian  bark,  and  caffein 
an  alkaloid  of  coffee. 

Sugar  is  a  pure,  isolated  carbohydrate.  It  is  not  a 
perfect  food,  because  it  does  not  represent  the  plant 
from  which  it  was  taken.  The  water,  fiber  (cellulose, 
etc.),  ash,  nitrogen,  gum,  acids,  wax,  and  fat  are  all 
removed. 

In  nature's  chemistry  all  these  elements  are  necessary 
to  make  a  perfect  food,  and  the  labor  necessary  to  extract 
the  nourishment  is  required  to  retain  digestive  power. 

Digestive  organs  that  are  furnished  predigested  foods 
are  robbed  of  an  opportunity  to  earn  their  bread  by  the 
sweat  of  their  labor;  and,  besides,  the  refined  foods  do 
not  furnish  the  many  minor  elements  that  are  found  in  all 
vegetables  and  fruits,  to  say  nothing  about  some  that 
elude  the  chemist. 

Unknown  Food  Elements. — There  are  food  elements 
which  cannot  be  discovered  except  by  inductive  rea- 
soning. 

It  is  unbelievable  that  the  chemist  will  ever  find  every- 
thing in  analyzing  the  human  body.  Analysis  does  not 
find  electricity,  life,  or  the  subtle  elements  necessary  to 
animation. 

The  elements  in  the  crumbling  mountain  unite  with 
the  simple  elements  of  the  valley,  and  are  blessed  in  that 
union  with  children — vegetables  and  fruits — which  go 
forth  sowing  the  seeds  of  life,  health,  and  happiness  to 
all  mankind  and  animals  who  will  utilize  them  and  allow 
them  to  serve  in  a  natural  way. 

What  is  the  matter  with  the  chemist's  food?  There 
is  something  lacking — something  that  eludes  him.  He 
cannot  crucible  it  out,  nor  find  it  with  a  test-tube.  The 
truth  is  that  the  chemist  will  never  be  able  to  make  a 
perfect  food.     We  hear  it  boasted  that  the  time  will 


222 


Food 


soon  come  when  we  can  quit  tilling  the  soil,  and  sit  down, 
take  our  ease,  and  get  our  food  from  the  drug  store.  But 
let  us  go  back  to  the  old  law  which  says:  "You  have 
now  become  a  man;  go  out  and  earn  yourself  a  living, 
because  the  living  you  get  in  your  father's  house  you 
cannot  digest  because  you  have  not  secured  it  with  labor.** 
The  law  is:  We  cannot  get  something  for  nothing.  It 
was  so  with  the  manna  which  the  children  of  Israel  gath- 
ered in  the  wilderness.  They  had  to  work  each  day  to 
gather  the  day's  supply;  they  could  not  hoard  it,  for  it 
spoiled.  The  order  of  nature  is  such  as  to  head  man  off 
when  he  would  get  something  for  nothing.  When  man 
imagines  he  has  beaten  nature,  he  has  only  beaten  him- 
self. "Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread"  means:  Give 
us  a  desire  that  will  force  us  to  get  out  and  earn  it.  If 
it  were  given,  without  an  effort  on  our  part,  it  would 
poison. 

The  command  to  earn  bread  by  labor  is  universal, 
and  the  demand  is  made  of  all  life.  It  means  that,  if  we 
would  live  and  grow  efficiency,  we  must  labor.  If  metab- 
olism, digestion,  assimilation,  and  waste  are  to  be  car- 
ried on  properly,  food  must  not  be  used  that  fails  to  call 
out  the  energies  of  the  system.  If  it  is,  nutrition  lags 
from  lack  of  labor,  and,  in  addition  to  lost  power,  the 
tissues  suffer  from  lack  of  those  elements  that  have  been 
excluded  in  the  refining  process. 

Nutrition  is  governed  by  the  same  laws  that  obtain 
in  social  life. 

Children  who  are  pampered,  spoiled,  and  not  sent 
out  into  the  world  to  earn  a  living,  become  drones,  and 
in  time  will  send  parents  to  Old  People's  Homes  or  Poor 
Farms,  while  they,  the  children,  eat  of  the  tree  of  life 
without  any  power  to  digest. 

We  hear  people  talk  about  "retiring."  What  does 
it  mean?    It  means  to  sit  down  and  die;  for  I  have  never 


Sugar 


223 


seen  a  man  retire  who  did  not  die  in  a  very  few  years 
afterwards.  Why  not?  Nature  is  through  with  him, 
whether  he  is  ready  to  die  or  not.  Whenever  a  man 
ceases  to  earn  his  bread  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow,  nature 
is  through  with  him;  she  uses  him  for  fertilizer. 

"Service"  is  to  be  the  slogan  of  the  intelligent  of 
the  future.  The  stupid  custom,  in  well-to-do  families,  of 
bringing  up  children  to  know  nothing  about  work  must 
and  will  be  a  thing  of  the  past,  or  such  families  will  be- 
come extinct  from  degeneration.  Health  is  coming  to  be 
the  "summum  bonum."  The  time  is  coming  when  it  will 
be  a  disgrace  to  be  sick.  Then  the  importance  of  work 
for  health's  sake  will  be  understood;  then  we  shall  cease 
to  see  women  in  middle  life  with  muscles  as  flabby  as  in 
paralysis — unfortunate  children  of  wealth  who  have  not 
power  to  hold  themselves  together,  and  whose  abdominal 
and  pelvic  viscera  are  dragging  so  low  that  modern  medi- 
cal science  offers  them  no  relief  except  surgery.  The 
rational  cure,  of  restoring  lost  tone  through  exercise  and 
work,  meets  with  no  sympathy  or  approval  from  such 
people,  because  their  wills  for  work  are  as  flabby  as  their 
muscles.  A  spoiled  human  being  is  a  disgrace  to  civiliza- 
tion— our  boasted  modern  enlightenment. 

Sugar  favors  the  development  of  flabby  muscles.  It 
is  a  lazy  man's  food.  It  is  in  keeping  with  every  phase  of 
getting  something  for  nothing,  and  comes  under  the  uni- 
versal ban — namely,  sweat  or  die. 

Nutrition  will  not  work  except  when  forced  to  do  so. 
If  sugar  is  eaten  with  bread  or  other  foods,  the  sugar  will 
be  taken  up  first;  and  if  the  requirements  for  energy  are 
satisfied  when  the  sugar  is  taken  up,  the  food  eaten  with 
it  will  ferment  and  cause  digestive  disturbance,  and  the 
products  of  the  fermentation  will  be  taken  up  and  circu- 
lated by  the  blood,  overstimulating  and  poisoning  the 
system. 


224 


Food 


It  should  be  obvious  to  everyone  thinking  on  the  sub- 
ject that,  when  sugar  is  taken  daily,  a  systematic  starva- 
tion must  follow;  for  the  heat  element — energy — is  fur- 
nished the  system  without  digestive  labor;  and  when  this 
requirement  is  satisfied,  digestive  urge  is  lost  (the  de- 
mand for  heat  being  the  greatest  digestive  urge) ,  and  the 
lesser  wants  will  be  crowded  into  the  background.  Be- 
sides this,  the  poisoning  from  indigestion  will  soon  pre- 
vent the  normal  desires,  so  that  in  a  short  time  all  the 
demands  of  the  body  can  be  summed  up  in  a  desire  for 
drunkenness. 

A  desire  that  sends  a  person  off  for  a  pound  of 
chocolates  is  drunkenness.  If  it  is  continued,  premature 
death  is  the  reward.  This  is  peculiar  to  alcohol,  opium, 
and  every  other  drug  that  enters  the  system  for  the  pur- 
pose of  controlling  pain  without  removing  the  cause. 

The  local  effect  of  sugar  on  the  stomach  is  that  of 
irritation.  Those  who  have  irritation  of  this  organ  should 
not  take  sugar  except  when  it  is  mixed  with  other  foods. 

Concentrated  foods,  such  as  sugar  and  meat,  when 
eaten  heartily,  tend  to  stagnate  in  the  intestines  and  favor 
putrefaction.  Sugar,  and  carbohydrates  generally,  cause 
a  comparatively  simple  fermentation;  but  when  meat  is 
caught  in  the  fermentation,  it  means  putrefaction,  and  the 
system  will  be  septic-poisoned. 

;  When  fruits,  vegetables,  vegetable  fats,  and  carbohy- 
drates decompose,  the  decomposition  is  a  fermentation 
that  produces  discomfort,  enervation,  and  the  lighter 
forms  of  inflammation  and  fevers;  but  when  meat  de- 
composes, it  favors  the  development  of  septic  fevers  and 
glandular  ulcerations.  Meat  is  capable  of  setting  up  a 
septic  poisoning,  whereas  a  fermentation  from  starch  or 
fruit  in  the  stomach  is  just  a  little  distress  for  a  time — it 
does  not  amount  to  much.  When  putrefaction  is  going 
on  in  the  large  intestine,  look  out  for  appendicitis,  or 


Sugar 


225 


glandular  trouble,  and  derangement  of  all  organs.  Putre- 
faction causes  lumps  in  the  groins.  These  are  enlarged 
lymphatics.  They  are  also  found  in  the  neck.  When 
these  enlargements  take  on  the  condition  known  as 
tubercular,  they  will  sometimes  be  as  large  as  hen's  eggs. 
Decomposition  favors  the  development  of  any  disease 
for  which  there  is  a  predisposition.  If  anyone  has  a  pre- 
disposition for  Bright*  s  disease,  he  will  develop  that;  but 
he  must  first  have  putrefaction,  then  glandular  inflamma- 
tion. 

It  would  be  well  to  confine  the  word  "fermentation" 
to  the  change  that  takes  place  in  carbohydrates,  fruits, 
vegetables,  and  fats,  and  limit  "putrefaction"  to  the 
change  in  proteids  and  allied  substances.  Meat  and 
sugar  undergoing  fermentation  develop  toxins,  which  poi- 
son the  body.  Lymphatic  involvement  from  this  kind  of 
poisoning  leads  to  all  manner  of  disease.  A  patient  un- 
dergoing such  poisoning  from  food,  if  bitten  by  a  dog, 
or  if  an  ulcer  develops  on  the  genitalia,  will  be  in  line  for 
rabies  or  syphilis  of  the  most  virulent  type,  if  he  falls 
into  the  hands  of  the  average  modern  medical  scientist 
who  is  suffering  from  syphilomania. 

It  should  be  obvious  why  objections  to  having  parents 
feed  children  sugar  on  the  oatmeal  are  logical.  Sugar 
will  be  taken  up,  and  heat  produced.  This  will  continue 
until  a  lazy  digestion  is  developed.  The  longer  a  child 
is  fed  in  that  way,  the  lazier  the  digestion  becomes,  until 
a  time  finally  arrives  when  it  has  a  state  of  fermentation 
of  stomach  and  bowels  all  the  time,  and  tonsilitis  and 
adenoids  are  a  natural  consequence.  If  the  child  is  fed 
much  meat  or  eggs,  it  is  in  line  for  developing  tuber- 
culosis. 

Such  eating  causes  indican  to  form  in  the  system. 
Indican  in  the  urine  means  that  there  is  putrefaction  in 
the  bowels. 


226 


Food 


Sugar  is  a  one-sided  food,  its  whole  function  being  to 
serve  as  fuel — it  boils  the  pot,  but  does  not  repair  it.  As 
the  demand  for  sugar  increases,  there  is  a  constant  ener- 
vating influence  going  on  in  the  system,  and  power  to 
digest  carbohydrates  as  natural  food  is  lost.  The  blood 
becomes  more  and  more  dysemic — a  state  wherein  the 
elements  are  lacking. 

We  get  to  the  point  where  all  starches  disagree  with 
us.  People  say:  "We  cannot  eat  starch,  because  it 
creates  a  fermentation.**  That  condition  can  be  cured  by 
eliminating  the  artificial  foods  and  substituting  sweet 
fruits.  People  who  are  perfectly  well  may  eat  candy — 
they  may  have  a  meal  of  fruit  and  candy.  People  who 
are  well  may  eat  a  pound  of  candy,  and  not  die  the  first 
time  they  go  on  a  sugar  drunk.  They  have  to  repeat. 
The  organism  can  resist  disease-producing  influences  until 
sometimes  we  think  there  is  no  danger  of  making  our- 
selves sick. 

Sugar  should  be  recognized  as  a  luxury,  and  treated 
as  such.  Care  should  be  exercised  regarding  the  quan- 
tity consumed;  the  amount  must  be  kept  far  below  the 
system's  requirements  for  fuel. 

If  we  need  only  two  thousand  calories  of  heat  in 
twenty-four  hours,  and  we  eat  a  half-pound  of  chocolates 
during  the  day,  we  have  acquired  two-thirds  of  the  heat 
units  necessary,  and  our  bodies  will  not  take  the  other 
third  out  of  starch;  for  it  is  easier  to  get  it  out  of  fat  and 
meat.  And  when  we  are  not  taking  meat  into  the  system, 
because  of  our  sugar  habit,  it  will  consume  what  meat 
there  is  on  our  bones,  and  muscle  gives  way  to  fatty 
degeneration. 

A  pound  of  sugar  furnishes  about  eighteen  hundred 
calories,  and  the  body  requires  about  two  thousand  a 
day.  Chocolate  furnishes  twenty-seven  hundred  heat 
units. 


Spices  and  Condiments 


227 


The  sweet  fruits  are  far  better  than  sugar.  Besides, 
the  sweet  fruits  carry  the  very  important  elements  that 
go  to  make  up  the  tissues  of  the  body.  They  furnish  all 
the  mineral  elements  besides  the  sugar.  Those  elements 
are  left  out  when  granulated  sugar  is  made.  Everything 
is  taken  away  from  the  sugar  when  it  is  made  from  the 
beet  or  cane.  Raisins,  dates,  and  figs  furnish  fine  eating 
for  winter,  because  they  furnish  food  as  well  as  heat; 
they  furnish  elements  for  tissue-building.  Raw  fruits 
and  vegetables  furnish  elements  for  cell-building;  so  we 
do  not  require  a  great  deal  of  heavy  food.  During  the 
summer  time  much  food  beyond  vegetables  and  fruit  is 
not  needed.  If  hunger  is  great  for  meat  once  a  week,  it 
is  all  right  to  eat  it.  If  one  wants  whole-wheat  bread, 
it  is  well  to  eat  it  two  or  three  times  a  week.  What  is 
coming  to  the  people  who  are  eating  meat,  sugar,  and 
carbohydrates  two  or  three  times  a  day  in  summer 
weather?  They  labor  to  get  enough  air  to  oxidize  their 
food.  They  are  kept  busy  looking  for  a  cool  place;  they 
are  most  uncomfortable,  and  are  building  future  disease. 

SPICES  AND  CONDIMENTS 
The  drug  doctor  recognizes  spices  and  condiments  as 
very  important  agents  in  increasing  the  appetite  and  aid- 
ing digestion.  I  have  moved  away  from  that  belief  the 
length  of  thirty  years.  The  truth  of  the  matter  is  that  the 
fewer  the  spices  and  condiments  entering  the  organism 
of  man,  the  better.  There  is  no  need  of  any  stimulants  of 
any  kind  beyond  what  can  be  secured  by  eating  good, 
nutritious  food  in  the  proper  quantities.  And,  so  far  as 
increasing  the  appetite  is  concerned,  no  one  has  ever 
needed  artificial  aid,  nor  will  he  ever  need  such  a  thing. 
All  that  is  needed  to  increase  the  appetite  is  to  fast  until 
a  normal  desire  comes.  It  is  said  that  the  use  of  condi- 
ments increases  the  secretions  of  the  gastric  juice.  Any- 
thing that  will  produce  an  abnormal  secretion  of  the  gas- 


228 


Food 


trie  juice  is  injurious.  Any  gland  that  is  whipped  into 
activity  is  weakened.  Overstimulation  always  leads  to 
enervation.  No  one  loses  an  appetite  until  he  has  abused 
his  privilege  of  eating,  by  eating  too  much  and  bringing 
on  an  enervated  state  of  digestion.  Rest  is  the  logical  and 
rational  method  of  cure. 

Peppers. — Peppers  are  among  the  favorite  condi- 
ments. There  are  three  main  varieties — the  red,  the 
white,  and  the  black.  If  I  should  prescribe  a  stimulant 
under  any  circumstances,  it  would  be  pepper.  Pepper 
is  a  real  stimulant,  while  alcohol  is  a  narcotic  and  de- 
pressant. 

Mustard. — Mustard  is  used  frequently  in  salads  or 
on  meats  to  whip  a  jaded  appetite  into  taking  more  than 
there  is  a  normal  desire  for.  This  is  a  very  great  mistake. 
A  little  mustard  wrapped  in  a  cloth  and  dropped  into  a 
foot-bowl  of  hot  water,  used  as  a  foot-bath,  will  often 
give  relief  to  headache.  The  external  application  of  mus- 
tard, when  handled  properly,  may  give  relief  to  pain, 
but  it  should  not  be  used  internally. 

Cider  Vinegar. — This  vinegar  may  be  used  where 
limes  or  lemons  cannot  be  had.  It  should,  however,  al- 
ways be  used  in  small  amounts,  and  never  with  starch. 

Horseradish. — I  do  not  recommend  horseradish,  or 
sauces  made  of  tomatoes.  Of  course,  no  special  harm 
can  come  from  the  occasional  use  of  any  stimulant.  The 
harm  comes  from  the  habitual  use  of  stimulants  and  over- 
stimulating  foods,  or  from  the  use  of  foods  in  such  a  way 
as  to  force  overstimulation — overeating  or  combining  im- 
properly. 

FATS  AND  OILS 
One-fifth  of  the  weight  of  the  body  of  the  average 
individual  consists  of  fat.     It  does  not  stand  to  reason 
that  we  can  have  a  set  amount  of  fat,  or  establish  a  gen- 
eral standard;  for  people  all  vary  in  weight,  and  espe- 


Fats  and  Oils 


229 


cially  in  the  amount  of  fat  deposited  in  their  bodies.  The 
obese  individual  may  have  three-fifths  of  his  weight  in 
fat,  and  the  very  lean  individual  may  have  but  one-tenth 
of  his  weight  in  fat.  Hydrocarbons  are  supposed  to  be 
fat-producers  as  well  as  heat-producers.  Perhaps  the 
fat  consumed  finds  a  deposit  in  the  body,  but  it  is  very 
probable  that  the  fat  consumed  is  used  in  warming  the 
body — used  as  a  heat-producer — and  in  this  way  con- 
serves that  already  deposited. 

Fats  are  emulsified  in  the  intestines.  As  a  food, 
butter  stands  at  the  head  of  the  fats.  Olive  oil  is  a  live 
second  to  the  dairy  product.  There  is  a  certain  amount 
of  oleomargarine  used,  and  it  may  be  that  some  people 
are  compelled  to  use  it  because  of  inability  to  buy  butter; 
but  where  oleomargarine  sells  at  thirty  cents,  and  the  best 
butter  at  forty,  it  seems  to  me  that  the  poorest  individual 
should  be  willing  to  do  with  a  little  less  of  the  real  butter 
and  use  it  in  place  of  the  substitute. 

Cotton-seed  oil  is  coming  into  general  use  for  cooking 
purposes.  There  are  a  great  variety  of  fats  on  the  market 
made  from  cotton  seed,  all  of  which  are  good. 

An  indication  of  too  great  an  intake  of  fat  in  a  meal 
is  to  have  an  acid  eructation  which  leaves  a  pungent, 
burning  sensation  in  the  throat.  The  juice  of  a  lemon 
or  grapefruit  taken  under  such  circumstances  is  the  best 
and  most  certain  relief.  Those  who  eat  too  much  fat, 
cake,  pastry,  etc.,  are  justified  in  eating  acid  fruit  before 
going  to  bed. 

The  use  of  fat  should  be  limited  to  an  ounce  and  a 
half  to  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  for  a  day's  supply;  the  olive  oil  to 
be  used  on  the  salad,  and  the  butter  to  be  used  on  bread 
and  to  season  cooked  foods. 

Cold  weather  makes  a  demand  for  fat  The  Eskimo 
drinks  whale  oil;  and  he  can  take  care  of  it  because  he 


230 


Food 


needs  it.  But  it  would  be  very  much  better  for  the 
Congoan  to  drink  the  juice  of  lemons  than  to  eat  fat. 
It  has  been  the  custom  for  years  to  feed  tubercular  sub- 
jects cod-liver  oil,  and  to  recommend  other  fats  and  oils; 
indeed,  they  are  often  urged  by  their  physicians  to  eat 
all  the  fat  they  can.  This  is  a  dietetic  mistake.  From  my 
point  of  view,  it  is  almost  impossible  for  an  advanced 
tubercular  case  to  emulsify  any  great  amount  of  oil,  and 
oil  emulsions  are  liable  to  pass  through  the  bowels  un- 
absorbed. 

SALTS 

The  mineral  elements  represented  in  the  body  are  the 
chlorids,  phosphates,  sulphates,  carbonates,  fluorids,  and 
silicates  of  potassium,  sodium,  magnesium,  calcium,  and 
iron.    The  thyroid  gland  carries  a  little  iodin. 

The  function  of  the  salts  is  to  maintain  the  osmotic 
pressure.  They  are  essential  to  cell-building.  It  is  only 
recently  that  the  profession  is  beginning  to  notice  the  im- 
portance of  the  salts  in  keeping  up  the  health  standard. 
For  many  years  the  disease  known  as  scurvy  has  been 
recognized  as  resulting  from  a  dietary  deprived  of  fresh 
fruit  and  vegetables.  But  this,  I  note,  has  not  been  car- 
ried to  any  great  extent  in  ferreting  out  the  real  value  of 
fresh  fruit  and  vegetables  in  maintaining  a  normal  health 
standard,  because  of  the  tissue  salts  furnished. 

Today  there  is  a  disease  known  as  "acidosis."  It  is 
the  same  old  scurvy,  or  scorbutus,  of  our  fathers.  The 
name  "acidosis"  lends  no  particular  dignity  to  the  dis- 
ease, nor  does  it  throw  any  special  light  on  the  real  cause. 
Only  recently  one  of  the  most  prominent  and  interna- 
tionally best-known  pathologists  died.  He  was  an  advo- 
cate of  cooking  all  foods.  Up  to  his  death  he  had  not 
appeared  to  grasp  the  thought  that  cooking  destroys 
some  of  the  very  important  elements  in  fresh  fruits  and 
vegetables — elements  that  go  to  neutralize  the  acids 


Salts 


231 


which  are  common  to  metabolism,  when  the  dietary  is 
made  up  largely  of  the  staple  foods. 

The  ash  or  debris  that  is  left  from  normal  metabolism 
is  acid.  The  fluids  of  the  body,  when  in  a  normal  condi- 
tion, are  potentially  alkaline.  This  being  true,  anything 
that  prevents  elimination  causes  a  backing-up  in  the  sys- 
tem of  acid  excretions.  A  retention  of  the  excretions  I 
am  pleased  to  call  "autotoxemia."  Where  this  condition 
is  pronounced,  there  is  a  gradual  neutralizing  of  the 
normal  alkalinity  of  the  blood  and  fluids  of  the  body. 
This  condition,  when  established,  is  known  as  "acidosis." 
Where  the  condition  is  light,  it  is  not  recognized  as  a  light 
form  of  the  old  disease  known  as  "scurvy;"  yet  this  de- 
rangement, when  once  established,  becomes  the  exciting 
cause  of  many  diseases. 

If  foods  carrying  a  goodly  supply  of  the  cell  salts 
are  taken  into  the  organism  daily;  if  fruit  and  vegetables 
accompany  meat  and  bread — the  more  solid  or  staple 
foods — this  tendency  for  an  accumulation  of  acid  in  the 
system  will  not  take  place;  indeed,  it  is  the  only  way  to 
keep  up  a  normal  balance,  so  far  as  the  acids  and  alka- 
lis in  the  body  are  concerned.  I  think  it  may  be  readily 
proved  that  almost  all  the  diseases  to  which  flesh  is  heir 
will  be  found  originating  in  either  an  excess  of  acid  or  an 
excess  of  alkalinity.  And  one  of  the  most  important 
things  in  maintaining  health  is  to  understand  which  are  the 
potentially  alkaline  foods  and  which  are  the  potentially 
acid  foods,  and  then  have  the  combinations  made  so  that 
there  will  not  be  a  preponderance  of  either  one  or  the 
other  of  these  elements  developing  in  the  system. 

Cooking  destroys  much  of  the  potentiality  of  the  base 
salts;  hence,  as  important  as  cereals  are,  it  would  be  well 
for  them  to  be  accompanied  by  fresh,  uncooked  fruit — 
not  cooked  fruit.  Fruit  may  be  used  in  the  form  of  fruit 
salads,  or  in  any  way  desired. 


232 


Food 


If,  however,  fruit  is  not  desired  for  breakfast,  it  may 
be  eaten  at  noon.  Cooked  cereals — oatmeal  or  corn- 
meal  mush,  farina,  or  any  other — should  be  eaten  with 
rich  milk,  no  sugar.  The  dry,  ready-to-eat  breakfast 
foods  are  to  be  eaten  dry.  A  little  melted  butter  may 
be  used  as  the  pop-corn  venders  butter  their  corn,  and 
the  cereals  should  then  be  eaten  dry,  using  no  fluid  until 
through  eating;  then  sip  hot  water,  teakettle  tea,  cereal 
coffee,  or  milk,  as  desired  or  according  to  need. 

The  noon  meal,  after  such  a  breakfast,  should  be  fruit 
— any  fresh  fruit.  The  dinner  in  the  evening  should  be 
full;  namely,  meat  or  potatoes,  cooked,  non-starchy  vege- 
tables, and  a  combination  salad. 

Table  Salt,  or  Chlorid  of  Sodium. — Many  people 
imagine  that  common  table  salt  is  meant  when  something 
is  said  about  the  mineral  salts.  Chlorid  of  sodium,  or 
common  salt,  is  a  compound  of  the  elements  soda  and 
chlorine,  and  is  found  in  the  human  body;  but,  like  lime 
and  potash,  it  must  be  prepared  for  the  animal  organism 
by  the  plants.  Vegetation  takes  up  these  various  ele- 
ments and  fits  them  for  assimilation  in  the  human  body. 
The  mineral  salt  as  we  find  it  on  the  table,  the  lime  as 
we  find  it  on  the  market  or  in  the  drug  store,  and  potash 
as  also  found  there,  are  the  inorganic  mineral  elements 
that  have  not  gone  through  the  refining  process;  hence 
it  is  doubtful  if  they  can  become  a  part  of  the  organism 
until  they  have  gone  through  the  vegetable  kingdom  and 
been  prepared  for  assimilation  by  the  animal  body. 

^Salt  in  the  system  may  be  there  as  a  foreign  element; 
it  may  not  be  accepted  as  a  chemical  constituent  of  cell- 
building.  It  is  just  possible  that  the  blood  remains  dy- 
semic — lacking  in  the  salt  element — unless  salt  be  fur- 
nished in  an  organized  state,  as  found  in  fruit  and  vege- 
tables. 


CHAPTER  VI 


BEVERAGES  AND  STIMULANTS 


WATER 

HE  amount  of  water  in  the  human  body  must 
necessarily  vary,  but  it  is  estimated  at  about 
sixty  per  cent.  The  human  body  has  often 
been  spoken  of  as  the  microcosm  and  the 
world  as  the  macrocosm,  and  the  proportion 
of  water  to  earth  in  the  make-up  of  the  world 
is  about  the  same  as  in  the  human  body; 
namely,  sixty  per  cent.  Water  is  not  looked  upon  as  food 
by  laymen,  but  it  should  be  classed  with  food.  It  certainly 
is  fully  as  important.  An  individual  may  live  forty  days 
without  the  ordinary  foods,  whereas  he  could  not  live  be- 
yond seven  days  without  water.  It  would  be  easy  enough 
for  the  individual  to  live  that  long  or  longer  on  the  water 
that  he  would  get  out  of  the  fresh  fruits  and  vegetables, 
as  most  of  these  foods  carry  about  ninety  per  cent  water. 
The  amount  of  water  taken  into  the  system  by  the  aver- 
age person  amounts  to  from  three  to  four  pints,  and 
about  half  that  amount  goes  into  the  system  through  the 
foods.  In  the  summer  time  more  fluid  is  consumed  than 
in  the  winter  time,  on  account  of  the  loss  of  water  by 
evaporation  and  perspiration.  Men  who  are  working 
very  hard  consume  more  water,  and,  of  course,  they 
throw  off  more  water  through  the  skin  and  lungs. 

Men  who  work  in  foundries,  stokers,  glass-blowers, 
and  others  who  work  in  very  hot  rooms,  consume  a  great 
amount  of  water,  because  they  are  compelled  to  sweat 
from  the  heat. 


234 


Food 


There  are  many  mineral  waters  used  for  regulating 
the  bowels.  There  are  many  springs  which  have  the  rep- 
utation of  curing  rheumatism  and  blood  diseases.  These 
waters  are  taken  in  large  quantities.  Where  water  is  con- 
sumed beyond  four  to  six  pints  a  day,  there  is  a  tendency 
for  a  gradual  development  of  a  weakened  digestive  func- 
tion. People  suffering  with  deranged  digestion  under 
such  circumstances  can  be  cured  by  withdrawing  the 
water  and  living  on  dry  foods  for  several  weeks.  During 
the  winter  the  skin  becomes  inactive.  It  is  then  that  a 
greater  amount  of  water  is  thrown  off  by  way  of  the 
kidneys,  and  also  the  lungs.  In  all  diarrheal  subjects  it 
is  necessary  to  limit  the  supply  of  fluid.  All  diseases 
marked  by  discharge,  such  as  catarrhal  diseases,  are 
made  more  active  when  the  supply  of  water  is  beyond 
the  normal. 

The  temperature  of  the  water  is  best  at  about  the 
temperature  of  the  body.  However,  when  in  hot  weather 
there  is  a  craving  for  cold  water  for  its  cooling  effect,  I 
think  it  is  proper  for  cold  drinks  to  be  taken,  in  modera- 
tion and  at  the  proper  time. 

I  think  it  a  very  great  mistake  for  anyone  to  take 
a  cold  or  ice  drink  within  three  and  one-half  hours  after 
a  meal;  for  it  will  stop  digestion.  In  eating,  great  care 
should  be  taken  not  to  wash  the  food  into  the  stomach 
with  a  fluid  of  any  kind.  Thorough  mastication  cannot 
take  place  when  fluid  is  being  taken  with  food.  Mastica- 
tion should  be  finished — chewing  should  be  deliberate 
and  thorough,  and  the  meal  finished — before  any  kind 
of  fluid  is  taken  into  the  stomach.  After  a  meal,  and 
before  leaving  the  table,  as  much  cold  water  as  desired 
may  be  drunk;  but  after  leaving  the  table,  when  diges- 
tion has  once  begun,  no  more  fluid  should  be  taken  for 
three  and  one-half  to  four  hours.  If,  however,  there  is 
a  pronounced  desire  that  cannot  be  postponed,  there  is 


Water 


235 


no  objection  to  taking  warm  water  a  little  above  the 
body  heat.  This  will  not  stop  digestion;  whereas,  if 
cold  water  should  be  taken,  digestion  stops  until  the 
temperature  of  the  stomach  is  restored  to  one  hundred 
degrees. 

f  Ices  are  luxuries  in  which  people  are  very  much  in- 
clined to  indulge  between  meals.  If  ice-water  or  these 
frozen  foods  are  taken  before  digestion  of  the  preceding 
meal  has  been  completed,  indigestion  is  sure  to  follow. 
Those  with  delicate  digestion,  or  those  who  are  troubled 
with  catarrhal  inflammation  or  chronic  diseases  of  any 
part  of  the  body,  will  find  these  derangements  increased 
in  severity  after  such  indulgences.  People  who  would 
get  well  of  any  bodily  derangement  must  give  up  all 
pleasures  and  indulgences  that  favor  the  building  of 
disease. 

What  should  be  the  temperature  of  the  water  used 
in  drinking?  It  may  be  hot  or  cold — not  hot  enough, 
however,  to  scald,  and  not  ice-cold.  Cold  water  should 
not  be  taken  into  the  stomach  within  less  than  four  hours 
after  a  hearty  meal;  and  if  the  individual  is  troubled  with 
indigestion,  he  should  not  take  cold  water  at  all  until 
digestion  is  positively  finished,  which  sometimes  requires 
from  five  to  five  and  one-half  hours,  and,  in  dilation  of  the 
stomach,  twelve  hours  or  more.  People  who  have  slight 
dilation  will  have  slow  digestion,  and  may  require  from 
morning  until  evening  to  take  care  of  the  breakfast,  and 
then  from  supper  time  until  breakfast  time  to  take  care 
of  the  evening  meal.  All  who  are  troubled  in  this  way 
should  be  careful  about  taking  fluids  into  the  stomach. 
Where  there  is  a  very  great  thirst,  enemas  of  a  pint  of 
water  may  be  taken  often  enough  to  control  the  desire 
for  fluid.  People  suffering  in  this  way  should  be  very 
careful  about  taking  too  much  salt,  or  anything  that  will 
stimulate  thirst. 


236 


Food 


Rain-water  is  soft,  and  supposed  to  be  the  purest  of 
natural  water.  It  has  a  peculiar  taste,  and  very  few  peo- 
ple like  it  for  that  reason.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that 
people  do  not  like  pure  water — they  like  water  which 
carries  a  certain  amount  of  mineral  that  will  give  it  a 
little  taste.  What  is  called  "hard  water* '  is  water  that 
is  more  or  less  saturated  with  mineral.  Wells  in  limy  sec- 
tions of  the  country  furnish  water  heavily  charged  with 
lime.  Such  water  is  not  good  to  drink  for  any  great 
length  of  time.  People  living  in  such  localities  will  be 
troubled  with  limy  deposits  in  the  body  on  account  of 
drinking  water  heavily  charged  with  mineral.  It  is  neces- 
sary to  secure  as  pure  water  as  possible;  indeed,  it  is 
necessary  to  secure  as  pure  food  as  possible.  Nothing 
should  be  taken  into  the  body  that  is  not  as  pure  as  can 
be  had.  Impure  water  is  frequently  credited  with  creat- 
ing such  diseases  as  typhoid,  when  the  truth  is  that  those 
who  develop  typhoid  do  so  by  outraging  their  bodies 
with  improper  eating  and  bringing  on  enervation  from 
improper  life  generally.  One  quite  common  cause  is  ener- 
vation brought  on  from  too  much  bathing  during  hot 
weather. 

A  great  deal  of  distilled  water  is  used  these  days. 
Some  purify  water  by  running  it  through  charcoal  niters. 
Porcelain  cylinders  are  also  in  common  use.  Whatever 
the  filtering  agent,  unless  it  is  cleaned  out  and  renewed 
frequently,  it  becomes  a  source  of  water  contamination. 
Water  carrying  a  great  deal  of  surface  matter — clay  and 
other  dirt,  such  as  is  found  in  rivers- — may  be  cleared  by 
adding  a  little  alum.  It  is,  however,  doubtful  if  this  is  a 
good  thing  to  do.  It  requires  a  very  small  quantity  of 
alum  to  cause  all  the  debris  to  settle.  About  fifteen 
grains  of  alum  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  then  poured 
into  a  gallon  of  river  water  and  allowed  to  stand  for 
twenty-four  hours,  will  make  the  water  as  clear  as  a 
crystal. 


Water 


257 


Mineral  Waters.— Those  who  wish  to  go  into  an  ex- 
tensive investigation  of  mineral  waters  should  consult 
Cohen's  "Physiological  Therapeutics,"  Volume  IX. 

Space  will  not  be  given  for  the  analytical  tables  of 
the  various  mineral  waters.  It  would  require  a  volume 
of  considerable  size  to  give  a  history  of  the  different 
spring  waters  and  their  supposed  virtues.  There  are 
waters  that  are  alkaline,  and  others  that  contain  acid, 
sodium,  chlorid,  bromin,  iodin,  sulphur,  iron,  and  arse- 
nic. The  bitter  waters  are  those  containing  much  sul- 
phate of  magnesium.  There  are  the  aerated  waters,  such 
as  the  Manitou,  etc.  Iron  water  is  hard  on  the  stomach. 
Those  charged  with  gas  have  a  tendency  to  bloat  the 
stomach  and  bowels,  and  if  their  use  is  persisted  in  for 
any  great  length  of  time,  it  will  produce  dilation  of  the 
stomach  and  bowels.  Drinkers  of  fluids  containing  gas 
eventually  grow  very  large  abdomens. 

Those  who  are  troubled  with  constipation  should  not  drink 
water.  This  is  contrary  to  previous  instructions,  but  growing  ex- 
perience has  proven  the  error  of  water  drinking  as  recommended 
by  the  profession  generally  and  by  myself.  I  have  proven  that 
constipation  where  there  is  undue  activity  of  the  kidneys  cannot 
be  cured  so  long  as  water  is  used  between  meals. 

A  properly  selected  diet  requires  no  water.  Those  who  eat 
as  much  fresh  uncooked  fruit  and  combination  salad  as  they 
should,  get  from  these  succulent  foods  all  the  fluid  the  system 
requires.  Water  drinking  to  excess  has  been  brought  about  by 
the  conventional  haphazard  eating,  namely,  bread,  meat,  potatoes, 
pie,  pudding,  etc.  The  majority  of  cases  of  constipation  will 
get  well  if  the  eating  is  in  keeping  with  the  teachings  of  our  Food 
Books. 

Enemas.— It  is  quite  a  common  practice  for  people 
to  resort  to  enemas  to  get  relief  from  constipation.  The 
enema  habit  is  notorious  for  creating  constipation.  The 
enema  should  not  be  used  except  in  emergencies,  as 
when  patients  are  very  sick  and  must  have  relief  from 


238 


Food 


impaction  or  from  pain  from  intestinal  indigestion,  etc. 
Then  copious  enemas  may  be  used  until  relief  is  secured. 
But  to  use  enemas  daily,  simply  to  secure  a  movement 
from  the  bowels,  is  a  very  bad  habit,  and  one  that  should 
not  be  cultivated. 

For  Constipation. — Many  use  mineral  spring  waters 
to  correct  constipation.  These  waters,  however,  like 
enemas,  should  not  be  used  except  in  emergencies — 
should  not  be  used  except  when  temporary  relief  must 
be  had — while  other  means  are  being  used  to  bring  about 
the  re-establishment  of  the  liver  function  and  secretions 
that  have  to  do  with  overcoming  sluggish  bowels.  Con- 
stipation has  many  causes,  but  the  most  frequent  causes 
are  overeating — eating  beyond  the  digestive  capacity — 
and  eating  foods  that  have  a  tendency  to  distend  the 
bowels  with  gas.  This  bowel  distention  leads  directly 
to  inactivity  and  constipation.  Hence  it  is  positively 
necessary  that  patients  be  taught  how  to  live  correctly; 
and  in  the  meantime  an  innocent  mineral  water  of  some 
kind  may  be  used  to  secure  a  movement  each  day  until 
it  is  no  longer  necessary. 

Water  Cures. — There  are  water  cures  in  different 
parts  of  the  world.  A  certain  amount  of  water  cure  is 
used  by  nearly  all  schools  of  healing.  There  is  nothing 
so  desirable  with  which  to  relieve  suffering  as  a  hot  bath. 
The  water  should  be  as  hot  as  the  body  can  bear,  and  the 
patient  should  remain  in  the  tub  until  relaxed — fully  re- 
lieved. When  suffering  pain,  sometimes  it  will  require 
half  an  hour,  or  even  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When 
a  long  hot  bath  is  to  be  given,  the  bathroom  should  be 
well  aired,  and  the  window  and  door  must  be  open. 
Fresh  air  must  be  had  all  the  time  while  taking  a  hot 
bath  of  long  duration.  Cold  applications  should  be  put 
on  the  head,  and  the  patient  should  sip  frequently  of  cold 
water.    It  is  far  better  to  relieve  pain  with  a  hot  bath  than 


Tea  and  Coffee 


239 


to  use  hypodermics  or  drugs  which  have  the  reputation 
of  controlling  pain.  When  relieved  by  a  hot  bath,  there 
are  no  after-effects,  and  the  patient  feels  all  right  the 
next  day;  but  when  relieved  by  drugs,  the  patient  is 
usually  sick  from  the  use  of  the  drug.  Liver,  stomach, 
and  bowels  are  thrown  out  of  commission,  and  it  takes 
several  days  for  the  patient  to  get  back  to  normal. 

Towels  moistened  in  cold  water  and  wrapped  about 
a  limb  that  has  been  injured  are  one  of  the  best  simple 
remedies  that  can  be  used.  What  is  known  as  the  "wet 
pack"  will  relieve  the  pain  of  a  sprain  or  an  inflammation 
in  any  part  of  the  body  quickly  and  safely.  In  fevers 
the  cold  sponge-bath  is  the  greatest  friend  that  a  patient 
has.  In  typhoid  fever  the  spine  should  be  sponged  fre- 
quently with  hot  water,  which  should  be  followed  with 
cold,  and  then  with  dry,  open-hand  rubbing.  This  treat- 
ment of  the  spine  will  secure  rest  and  comfort,  when 
otherwise  a  patient  would  feel  very  uncomfortable  and 
have  a  restless  night.  By  no  means  should  such  patients 
be  given  drugs. 

TEA 

I  do  not  have  very  much  to  say  about  tea.  I  never 
recommend  it,  and  always  proscribe  it.  The  use  of  tea 
favors  the  development  of  stone  in  the  kidneys,  gall- 
bladder, and  other  parts  of  the  body.  It  favors  harden- 
ing of  the  arteries — indeed,  helps  bring  premature  aging 
and  all  the  diseases  peculiar  to  old  age. 

COFFEE 

Coffee,  like  tea,  builds  hardening  of  the  arteries  and 
high  blood  pressure.  The  constant  use  of  hot  coffee 
favors  the  development  of  irritation,  ulceration,  and  can- 
cer of  the  stomach.  Coffee  is  not  so  inclined  to  produce 
premature  aging  as  tea,  but  it  helps  develop  a  great  many 
nervous  diseases.    Tea  and  coffee  are  doing  more  harm 


240 


Food 


to  people  than  is  generally  recognized.  Being  in  such 
common  use,  laymen  naturally  think  that  there  can  be 
no  real  harm  in  theni.  Unless  evil  symptoms  follow  im- 
mediately on  the  use  of  any  poison,  it  is  not  considered 
poisonous.  The  majority  of  the  people  have  little  idea 
about  the  unfavorable  effects  of  tea  and  coffee  on  health 
and  life.  I  know  of  no  occasion  for  the  use  of  either  of 
these,  except  when  people  are  sick.  When  feeling  very 
much  exhausted  and  on  a  fast,  a  cup  of  tea  or  coffee 
may  revive  them  for  the  time  being;  but  to  cultivate  the 
habit  of  using  either  of  these  daily  means  lowering  effi- 
ciency— lowering  the  health  standard — favoring  all  the 
diseases  that  are  peculiar  to  old  age.  There  are  people 
perhaps  who  will  read  this  opinion  of  mine  and  declare 
that  it  is  nonsense.  It  is  very  easy  to  denounce  opinions, 
especially  by  those  who  do  not  know  enough  to  have  an 
opinion. 

COCOA  AND  CHOCOLATE 

Cocoa  and  chocolate  as  beverages  are  perhaps  less 
harmful  than  coffee  and  tea;  yet  they  carry  into  the  sys- 
tem an  alkaloid,  theobromin,  which  is  injurious  to  the 
nervous  system.  Both  of  these  drinks  favor  the  develop- 
ment of  catarrh.  Chocolate  is  especially  harmful  to 
those  who  have  catarrh,  hay  fever,  asthma,  or  catarrh  of 
the  stomach  and  bowels  It  increases  the  discharge — 
in  fact,  increases  all  symptoms.  Those  who  feel  dis- 
posed to  take  either  of  these  drinks  as  a  table  beverage 
should  be  quite  sure  that  they  have  no  catarrhal  derange- 
ment of  the  system;  for  if  they  drink  it  under  such  cir- 
cumstances, it  will  increase  the  trouble. 

I  do  not  recommend  any  table  beverage  except  hot 
water  or  teakettle  tea:  one- third  milk,  two-thirds  boiling 
water,  and  a  little  sugar. 


Alcohol 


241 


ALCOHOL 

Yeast  and  sugar  in  combination  produce  fermenta- 
tion, and  alcohol  is  the  result.  The  glucose  contained  in 
fruits  is  fermented  into  alcohol,  while  the  starches,  as 
found  in  the  potato,  corn,  etc.,  are  first  converted  into 
dextrose  and  then  maltose ;  then,  by  adding  diastase,  alco- 
hol fermentation  takes  place.  The  value  of  alcohol  as 
a  food  and  medicine  has  long  been  discussed.  Doctors, 
chemists,  and  the  people  generally  have  been  divided  in 
their  opinions.  Some  believe  in  alcohol  as  medicine, 
others  as  a  food,  while  still  others  look  upon  it  as  a  poi- 
son. I  belong  to  the  latter  class.  There  is  no  place  for 
alcohol  at  the  table,  nor  as  a  therapeutic  agent.  Alco- 
hol is  not  a  stimulant — it  is  a  depressant.  The  alcohol 
habit  is  grown  because  of  its  anesthetic  properties.  It 
blunts  sensation.  All  stimulants  relieve  nerve  tension, 
irritation,  and  pain.  This  is  where  the  danger  in  the  use 
of  alcohol  lies.  Anything  that  causes  a  dulling  of  sensa- 
tion to  feeling  is  capable  of  producing  a  habit — a  longing 
for  the  drug  influence.  The  first  drink  of  alcohol,  be  it 
ever  so  small,  is  felt  very  quickly  in  the  brain — almost  as 
soon  as  its  warming  sensation  is  felt  in  the  stomach. 
This  is  a  poisonous  influence;  and  where  the  influence  is 
repeated,  the  organism  becomes  accustomed  to  it — and 
not  only  becomes  accustomed  to  it,  but  there  is  an  appe- 
tite set  up  that  requires  more  and  more  to  satisfy  it, 
until  the  individual  is  a  full-fledged  inebriate.  This  is 
the  way  that  all  drug  habits  are  developed.  The  effect 
of  alcohol  on  digestion  is  to  retard  the  digestive  process. 
Some  authors  declare  that  in  small  doses  it  increases  the 
digestibility  of  protein.  It  is  possible  that,  where  there 
is  a  sensitive  state  of  the  stomach  which  interferes  with 
the  normal  secretion  of  the  gastric  juice,  if  anything  is 
given  that  partially  anesthetizes  the  nerves,  relief  from 
the  irritation  is  secured,  and,  as  a  result  of  the  relaxation, 


242 


Food 


more  secretion  is  thrown  out.  This  increase  in  digestive 
secretion  is,  however,  brought  about  at  a  tremendous 
expense;  for  the  system  will  soon  drop  into  the  habit  of 
waiting  for  the  drug  influence. 

Man  is  largely  made  up  of  habits.  It  is  as  easy  to 
establish  bad  habits  as  good  habits.  When  either  good 
or  bad  habits  are  developed,  it  requires  an  effort  to  over- 
come them. 


Our  Cook  Book 


Our  Cook  Book 


INTRODUCTION 

Ever  since  I  started  to  write  "A  Stuffed  Club'* — the 
worthy  predecessor,  with  a  quixotic  title,  of  "Philosophy 
of  Health** — -there  has  been  a  continual  and  insistent  de- 
mand for  a  Cook  Book.  Not  being  a  culinary  artist,  nor 
an  adept  at  compiling  menus  for  epicures,  I  have  hesi- 
tated to  assume  the  responsibility.  The  responsibility, 
however,  is  not  so  great  for  what  I  shall  offer  in  the  fol- 
lowing pages  as  for  what  I  shall  not  offer.  Those  who 
know  me,  and  who  have  kept  in  touch  with  my  work, 
will  not  expect  more  than  I  here  present.  But  the 
strangers  who,  in  their  search  for  a  spur  with  which  to 
put  a  little  fresh  ambition  into  a  jaded  appetite,  by  acci- 
dent pick  up  "Dr.  Tilden*s  Cook  Book,"  will  turn  away 
with  disgust  and  declare  it  an  epicureans'  Sahara,  without 
an  oasis.  To  all  such  I  have  only  this  to  say:  If  you 
would  renew  your  youth,  increase  your  efficiency,  and 
live  out  your  life's  expectancy,  do  not  hesitate  to  enter 
this  desert  without  bag  and  baggage,  take  with  you  the 
following  rules,  and  observe  them  to  the  letter: 

Rule  No.  1 :  Never  eat  unless  comfortable  in  mind 
and  body  from  the  previous  meal — or  meal  time. 

Rule  No.  2:  Never  eat  without  desire  and  a  keen 
relish  for  the  plainest  and  simplest  foods;  and  not  then, 
if  to  do  so  will  cause  the  breaking  of  the  first  rule. 

Rule  No.  3:  Avoid  overeating.  This  is  best  accom- 
plished by  observing  the  fourth  rule. 

Rule  No.  4:  Thoroughly  masticate  and  insalivate  all 
foods. 


246 


Food 


A  word  of  caution:  Those  who  are  sick  can  build 
more  sickness  if  they  ignore  the  four  rules.  It  is  not 
enough  to  eat  properly  prepared  and  properly  combined 
foods;  it  is  necessary  to  go  to  the  archives  of  antiquity — 
back  to  primeval  man — and  be  guided  by  the  rule  of 
"No  hunger,  no  food":  simple  eating,  and  only  when 
there  is  desire. 

The  present-day  food  drunkenness  is  made  possible 
by  commerce,  which  places  all  the  tempting  foods  of  the 
world  before  our  eyes  daily. 

Hunger  has  been  converted  into  appetite — food 
drunkenness.  Which  means  that  commerce  has  placed 
before  our  eyes  tempting  foods;  gastronomic  experts  have 
forced  eating  by  their  skill  at  juggling  with  the  world  of 
condiments;  and  the  conservers  of  health — the  physicians 
— have  skilfully  held  up  and  flailed  every  impotent  desire 
with  the  aphrodisiacs  known  only  to  those  skilled  in  that 
alchymistic  lore  denominated  "modern  medical  science." 

Appetite  is  the  composite  name  for  all  the  ills  to  which 
flesh  is  heir;  and  this  simple  little  Cook  Book,  and  the 
four  accompanying  rules  for  eating,  are  offered  as  a 
"Catholicon  Simplex." 


Our  Cook  Book 


247 


MEAT 

Many  people  are  sick  because  of  lack  of  nourishment 
—lack  of  certain  elements;  not  because  they  do  not  have 
enough,  or  a  large  enough  variety,  of  food-stuffs,  but  be- 
cause the  protein  of  meats  is  rendered  indigestible  by  im- 
proper cooking.  Why  should  people  not  go  to  rolls, 
butter,  and  coffee,  when  they  do  not  know  how  to  pre- 
pare meat  and  vegetables  fit  to  eat? 

BEEF 

Beef  is  at  its  best  roasted ;  but  to  retain  all  the  flavor, 
and  render  the  albumin  and  gelatin  tender  and  easily 
digestible,  it  should  be  roasted  in  quantities.  A  small 
roast  is  usually  too  dry.  When  barbecued,  beef  reigns 
king  of  all  meats;  for  the  larger  the  quantity  cooked,  the 
better  the  flavor;  and  the  flavor  is  a  necessary  adjunct 
to  digestion.  Food  must  smell  and  taste  good;  for  the 
stimulation  of  the  nerves  of  special  sense  is  necessary  to 
excite  the  secretion  of  digestive  fluids. 

Pot  Roast. — This  style  of  cooking  is  well  suited  for 
small  families.  Put  the  roast  to  cook  in  a  small  amount 
of  cold  water,  and  allow  it  to  come  to  the  boiling-point 
very  slowly;  then  turn  the  gas  down,  if  cooking  with 
gas;  or,  if  on  a  coal  range,  place  the  vessel  on  a  part  that 
will  keep  the  contents  simmering.  Just  enough  water 
should  be  used  so  that,  when  the  meat  is  tender,  it  will 
all  be  evaporated;  then  place  the  vessel  on  a  hot  part 
of  the  stove,  and  brown  the  meat  for  five  or  ten  min- 
utes. If  by  mistake  too  much  water  has  been  used,  the 
meat  can  be  lifted  out,  put  in  a  baking-pan,  and  placed 
in  the  oven  for  browning.  The  fluid  from  which  the  meat 
was  taken  may  be  used  as  a  soup  or  broth;  or  it  may  be 
used  to  dress  cooked  vegetables  in  place  of  butter  or 
cream. 


248 


Food 


Jacket  Roasting. — Roasting  in  a  jacket  is  a  good 
way  to  prevent  the  meat  from  drying  out.  Make  a  batter 
of  flour  and  water.  The  batter  should  be  stiff  enough 
to  coat  the  meat  well.  After  giving  the  prospective 
roast  a  thorough  coating,  wrap  paper  around  it,  and 
then  coat  the  outside  of  the  paper  with  another  layer  of 
the  batter.  Roast  the  regulation  time,  adding  a  little 
extra  on  account  of  the  jacket 

Steak. — As  in  the  case  of  roasts,  the  larger  and 
thicker  the  steaks,  the  better.  Only  the  expert  can  cook 
and  deliver  to  the  epicure  a  perfect  steak.  Butchers* 
lives  are  made  a  weary  dream  by  food  vandals.  Because 
the  vandal  cannot  fry  steak  cut  a  half-inch  thick,  and 
make  it  taste  equal  to  the  two-  or  three-inch  loin,  deftly 
broiled  on  a  charcoal  broiler  by  a  chef  whose  specialty 
is  preparing  one-fifty  to  three-dollar  steaks  for  voluptu- 
aries, the  meat-cutter  is  blamed.  The  inefficient  always 
know  who  is  to  blame  for  their  failures. 

How  to  Pan-broil  Any  .Meat. — All  broiling  meat 
should  be  cut  at  least  one  inch  thick;  the  thicker  the 
better — even  two  and  three  inches.  But  to  cook  meat 
so  thick  requires  a  proper  fire  and  an  expert  cook. 

Have  the  broiling-pan  hot — hot  enough  to  sear;  then 
place  the  meat  in  the  pan,  which,  if  hot  enough,  will  turn 
the  meat  white  at  once.  The  meat  should  be  turned 
almost  instantly.  Turn  it  from  side  to  side  three  or  four 
times,  and  at  the  same  time,  if  cooking  with  gas,  extin- 
guish the  flame  long  enough  for  the  pan  to  cool  down 
to  a  heat  that  will  cook,  but  not  sear;  then  relight  the 
gas.  If  cooking  on  a  coal  range,  move  the  pan  to  a  cool 
part  of  the  stove,  and  keep  the  meat  simmering,  so  to 
speak.  Finish  cooking  with  enough  heat  to  cook  the 
inside  of  the  meat  without  hardening  the  albumin.  In 
broiling,  the  object  is  to  sacrifice  the  outside  of  the  meat 


Our  Cook  Book 


249 


— harden  the  albumin  of  the  surface  of  the  meat — but 
keep  the  inside  soft  and  juicy. 

When  meat  is  properly  broiled,  it  swells,  and,  on 
cutting,  the  liquid  flows  readily;  but  if  cooked  too  much 
or  too  rapidly,  with  too  much  heat,  the  albumin  coagu- 
lates, and  the  meat  will  be  hard  and  tough;  even  veal, 
lamb,  and  a  young  chicken  will  be  disappointingly  hard 
and  dry.    There  are  people  who  will  have  dressing. 

Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter 

^4  cup  butter  %  saltspoon  pepper 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

Juice  of  one  lemon 

Rub  butter  to  a  cream;  add  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and 
lemon  juice.    Spread  on  hot  beefsteak. 

Broiling  over  Coals. — Clasping  in  a  wire  toaster  and 
holding  close  to  a  bed  of  hot  coals  is  a  very  nice  way  to 
broil  meat.  If  the  steak  is  quite  dry  cooked  in  this  way, 
because  of  its  thinness,  a  little  butter  should  be  added. 

Hamburg  Steak. — Hamburg  steak  should  be  carefully 
cooked,  following  the  hints  given  for  other  steaks.  The 
principal  thing  is  to  have  a  hot  skillet  and  turn  quickly. 
There  is  a  way  to  cook  a  Hamburg  steak  that  many  like: 
Put  to  cook  in  a  very  small  amount  of  water,  and  then, 
when  the  water  evaporates,  allow  the  meat  to  brown 
a  little.    Milk  may  be  used  instead  of  water. 

Stew. — A  beef  stew  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water 
and  allowed  to  cook  very  slowly.  Too  much  heat  will 
harden  the  meat.  The  broth  may  be  used  to  season  the 
vegetables. 

Round  Steak. — Round  steak,  cooked  as  follows,  is 
quite  palatable:     Put  into  a  very  hot  frying-pan  and  ' 
thoroughly  sear;  then  allow  it  to  stew  by  adding  a  small 
amount  of  cold  water.    The  cooking,  until  the  meat  is 


250 


Food 


tender,  should  be  by  a  simmering  heat  rather  than  hard 
boiling.  When  tender,  take  up  on  a  hot  plate,  cover,  and 
place  in  a  warming-oven.  There  should  be  only  a  small 
amount  of  fluid  in  the  pan  when  the  meat  is  taken  out. 
This  may  be  disposed  of  in  various  ways.  Some  people 
add  a  little  flour  and  make  a  gravy,  to  serve  with  the 
meat;  but  I  do  not  recommend  this.  Cooked  tomatoes 
or  onions  may  be  added;  serve  on  the  meat.  If  the  cook- 
ing is  done  well,  the  meat  should  be  tender  and  tasty. 
If  carefully  manipulated,  the  fluid  can  be  gauged  so  as 
to  be  cooked  away  by  the  time  the  meat  is  tender;  then, 
if  desired,  the  surface  of  the  meat  may  be  browned  the 
second  time. 


Chop  beef  and  pork;  mix  with  juice  of  lemon,  one-half 
onion,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  a  little  pepper, 
and  the  cream.  Pack  in  loaf  tin,  put  small  piece  of  butter 
or  bacon  on  top,  and  bake  one  and  one-half  to  two  hours. 
Veal  may  be  substituted  in  place  of  beef,  if  desired. 

Bouillons. — Bouillons  are  prepared  by  running  lean 
meat  through  the  meat-grinder.  To  a  pound  of  meat 
add  a  pint  of  water,  heat  slowly  for  thirty  minutes,  then 
boil  hard  for  five  minutes,  and  strain  through  a  cullender. 

Broth. — Broth  is  prepared  much  like  bouillon.  Grind 
one  pound  of  lean  meat  and  put  it  to  cook  in  a  quart  of 
cold  water.  Heating  must  be  gradual,  and  the  boiling- 
point  reached  very  slowly,  after  which  only  simmering 
should  be  allowed.  When  the  cooking  is  done  properly, 
the  meat  is  jellied,  and  should  be  eaten  with  the  broth. 
When  the  cooking  is  pushed  too  rapidly — when  the  heat 
is  too  great — the  albumin,  which  is  the  principal  nutritive 


Beef  Loaf 


3  pounds  chopped  beef 
1  egg  (large) 
1  lemon  (small) 


Vo  pound  salt  pork 
3  tablespoons  cream 
Y2  onion 


Our  Cook  Book 


251 


element  in  meat,  is  solidified  and  precipitated,  leaving  a 
liquid  that  is  often  served  to  the  sick  as  beef  tea,  but 
which  contains  little  more  than  soluble  salts,  and  is  toxic 
rather  than  nutritive.  If  desired  stronger,  use  a  pint  of 
water  instead  of  a  quart,  and  add  hot  water  to  make  up 
for  evaporation. 

PORK 

The  digestibility  of  pork  depends  a  good  deal  on  the 
cooking.  Fried  pork  is  neither  better  nor  worse  than  any 
other  fried  food.  If  a  family  is  not  prepared  to  cook 
properly,  and  frying  is  necessary,  or  desired,  the  cooking 
should  be  manipulated  in  the  best  way  possible  with  the 
conveniences  at  hand. 

Steak. — Place  the  meat  in  a  hot  skillet — have  the 
cooking-vessel  very  hot — then  in  a  few  seconds — almost 
immediately — turn  it,  and  turn  again,  once  or  twice,  in  the 
same  way.  As  fast  as  the  grease  fries  out,  it  should  be 
poured  into  a  vessel  used  for  drippings.  Prevent  the 
meat  as  much  as  possible  from  cooking  in  the  grease. 
A  wire  netting  can  be  made  to  fit  the  skillet  and  set  up 
off  the  bottom  for  a  third  or  a  half  inch,  thus  allowing 
the  grease  to  drop  through.  By  keeping  a  well-fitting 
cover  on  the  vessel  after  the  meat  has  been  placed  on  the 
netting,  the  meat  can  be  broiled,  which  style  of  cooking 
is  superior  to  frying. 

Roast. — Roast  pork  may  be  cooked  in  the  usual  way, 
or  it  may  be  cooked  in  a  paper  sack  or  a  batter  (flour 
and  water)  jacket.  (See  directions  for  beef  roast  for 
jacket.)    Pork  cooked  in  this  way  is  especially  fine. 

Stew. — Pork  ribs,  or  backbones,  stewed  tender,  are 
a  food  that  most  people  like.  This  meat,  cooked  in  a 
steam  cooker,  is  made  very  tender,  tasty,  and  wholesome. 
The  cooking  should  be  prolonged  until  the  meat  has 


Food 


reached  a  state  of  tenderness  that  will  allow  the  bones 
to  drop  out. 

Pork  and  Kraut. — Cook  the  meat  and  kraut  sepa- 
rately, and  serve  together  if  desired.  Drain  the  kraut 
from  the  brine,  and  cook  thoroughly,  with  a  slow  fire. 
Any  form  of  cooked  pork  may  be  used. 

VEAL 

Veal  from  an  animal  sufficiently  matured  is  tender, 
digestible,  and,  when  cooked  well,  is  pleasant  to  eat. 

Roast. — Veal  may  be  roasted  the  same  as  other 
meats — the  usual  way — or  in  a  jacket. 

Cutlets. — Brown  whole-wheat  flour  thoroughly,  roll 
the  meat  in  it,  and  fry  in  a  very  little  butter  or  olive  oil. 
This  style  of  cooking  is  not  desirable,  and  only  those  who 
are  very  well  should  eat  meat  prepared  in  this  way. 

Broil. — Veal  may  be  broiled,  and  this  style  of  cook- 
ing, if  properly  done,  is  very  pleasing  to  the  taste. 

MUTTON 

Chops. — Cut  away  the  tough  outside  skin,  trim  off 
a  part  of  the  fat,  and  broil  the  same  as  steak;  namely, 
for  about  one  minute,  close  to  the  coals,  turning  about 
six  times;  then  finish  the  cooking  farther  away  from  the 
fire.  Time  required:  four  to  six  minutes,  if  the  meat  is 
desired  rare.  No  butter  is  required  on  chops,  as  they  are 
quite  fat  enough,  and  none  on  steak  unless  it  is  very  dry, 
and  then  it  should  not  be  dressed  with  butter  until 
cooked. 

LAMB 

Chops. — Lamb  chops  should  be  broiled  the  same  as 
mutton  chops,  except  that  they  should  be  cooked  thor- 


Our  Cook  Book 


253 


oughly — well  done — instead  of  rare.  All  young  meats 
are  cooked  until  well  done,  which  requires  from  eight  to 
ten  minutes.  Of  course,  the  fire  has  much  to  do  with  the 
time  required.  Poor  meat,  poorly  served,  is  quite  con- 
ducive to  the  building  of  vegetarianism — causes  the  giv- 
ing-up  of  the  meat  habit. 

Pan-broiled  Chops. — For  mutton  and  lamb  chops, 
pan-broiled,  carry  out  the  instruction  given  for  pan- 
broiled  steak — a  high  degree  of  heat  to  sear,  then  lower 
the  temperature. 

Roasts. — Pot  roasts  and  regulation  roasts  of  mutton 
and  lamb  are  to  be  made  the  same  as  those  of  beef. 
Mutton  and  lamb  are  not  to  be  eaten  by  people  who 
have  diarrhea  or  intestinal  indigestion.  For  sick  people 
the  fat  must  be  cut  away  from  the  meat.  If,  however, 
only  the  lean  of  the  meat  is  used,  and  it  is  well  broiled, 
no  increase  of  the  bowel  trouble  will  be  experienced. 

Lamb  Stew  with  Vegetables. — Cut  the  lamb  up  into 
small  pieces,  and  stew  until  tender,  without  seasoning. 
Take  several  kinds  of  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  turnips, 
cabbage,  celery,  parsley,  onion,  and  potato.  Cut  up 
fine,  and  cook  together  until  thoroughly  tender.  The 
potato  should  be  cooked  until  it  goes  all  to  pieces,  so  as 
to  thicken  the  stew  in  place  of  using  flour.  When  the 
vegetables  are  tender,  season.  Season  the  lamb,  and 
pour  over  it  the  cooked  vegetables.  Let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  Use  very  little  water 
on  the  vegetables  when  cooking — just  enough  so  that  the 
potato  will  thicken  it  nicely.  (Mrs.  E.  A.  Van  Deusen, 
Charlotte,  N.  C.) 


254 


Food 


FISH 

Baked. — Prepare  by  washing  and  wiping  dry;  then 
lay  a  greased  paper  in  a  dripping-pan  or  an  ordinary 
baking-pan.  Lay  the  fish  on  cotton  gauze  with  which 
to  lift  it  out  of  the  pan;  or  the  fish  may  be  placed  on  the 
greased  paper  without  the  gauze  lifter.  If  the  fish  is 
free  from  fat,  add  a  little  butter:  to  a  half  pound  of  fish, 
half  of  an  inch  cube  of  butter;  if  the  fish  weighs  a  pound, 
use  an  inch  cube  of  butter.  Salt  and  lemon  juice  are  to 
be  added  to  please  the  taste. 

Fish  may  be  baked  in  a  jacket,  the  same  as  recom- 
mended for  meat.  This  plan  is  good,  and  fish  cooked  in 
this  way  is  delicious. 

Broiled. — To  broil  fish,  proceed  as  with  meat.  Clasp 
the  fish  in  a  wire  holder,  and  hold  it  close  to  the  fire 
until  the  surface  is  hardened,  as  in  broiling  steak;  then 
hold  it  far  enough  from  the  fire  to  cause  the  flesh  below 
the  surface  to  cook,  but  not  dry  out.  If  the  broiling  is 
successful,  the  fish  will  be  juicy  and  thoroughly  cooked. 
Dressing  should  be  the  same  as  for  baked  fish. 

Fish  may  also  be  broiled  in  water.  Have  a  pan  of 
boiling  water  ready,  and  place  the  fish,  such  as  salmon 
or  halibut  steak,  cut  fairly  thick,  into  the  hot  water. 
Then  turn  the  fire  low  enough  so  that  the  water  will  not 
bubble  or  boil.  Allow  the  fish  to  cook  until  tender,  and 
lift  out  with  a  broad  utensil  of  some  kind.  Dress  with 
butter,  salt,  and  lemon  juice.  The  fish  may  be  placed 
in  the  water  on  a  piece  of  white  gauze,  and  lifted  out  on 
the  cloth  when  thoroughly  cooked. 

To  Serve  Canned  Salmon. — Place  a  can  of  salmon  in 
hot  water  and  boil  until  well  heated  through.  Open, 
and  serve  on  hot  platter  with  butter,  salt,  and  lemon 
juice. 


Our  Cook  Book 


255 


Timbals  of  Salmon. — Remove  bone,  skin,  and  oil 
from  one  can  of  salmon.  Add  gradually,  beating  all  the 
time,  four  tablespoons  of  cream,  the  unbeaten  whites  of 
two  eggs,  salt,  and  pepper.  Fill  small  cups  with  the  mix- 
ture, and  place  in  a  baking-pan  half  full  of  hot  water. 
Bake  twenty  minutes. 

Salmon  Loaf 

1  can  salmon  2  egg  whites 

Lemon  juice 

Remove  bone,  skin,  and  oil  from  one  can  of  salmon. 
Add  beaten  eggs  and  lemon  juice.  Mold  in  loaf.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Finnan  Haddie  a  la  Delmonico. — Cut  fish  in  strips 
(there  should  be  one  cup)  ;  put  in  baking-pan;  cover  with 
cold  water.  Place  on  back  of  range,  and  allow  water 
to  heat  to  boiling-point.  Let  stand  on  range,  keeping 
water  below  boiling-point,  twenty-five  minutes.  Drain 
and  rinse.  Separate  fish  in  flakes;  add  one-half  cup  of 
cream  and  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  thinly  sliced.  Season 
with  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

Hollandaise  Sauce  for  Fish 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  %  cup  melted  butter 

Dash  of  red  pepper  Juice  of  1  lemon 

1  tablespoon  vinegar 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Will  serve  ten. 


256 


Food 


OYSTERS 

The  albumin  of  oysters  can  be  made  hard  and  unfit 
to  eat  by  wrong  cooking.  They  should  be  cooked  in  a 
low  temperature — from  1  60  to  1  80  degrees  Fahrenheit 
is  the  cooking  temperature  for  albumin. 

Raw. — Raw  oysters  may  be  dressed  with  salt  and  a 
little  black  pepper,  if  desired;  also  lemon  juice. 

Roasted  on  Half-Shell. — Wash  the  shells  with  brush; 
then  put  in  wire  broiler  over  glowing  coals — the  round 
part  of  the  shell  down,  so  as  to  hold  the  juice.  Cook 
quickly;  turn  once  or  twice  until  the  shell  opens.  They 
may  be  cooked  on  either  gas  or  coal  range.  When  done, 
remove  the  upper  half-shell. 

Broil.— A  splendid  broil  may  be  conducted  as  fol- 
lows: Fill  a  metallic,  earthen,  or  tile  dish  with  hot 
gravel.  Place  the  oysters,  in  their  shells,  on  the  gravel, 
and  cover.  Turn  once  when  hot.  When  cooked,  lift 
off  the  upper  half-shell,  place  the  dish  containing  the 
gravel  and  cooked  oysters  in  a  silver  container — pudding 
dish — or  pin  napkin  around  the  dish,  and  serve  on  a 
dinner-plate.  Oysters  cooked  in  this  way  should  be 
cooked  in  individual  quantities.  The  oysters  should  be 
kept  hot  until  eaten.  Dress  with  salt,  butter,  and  lemon; 
a  dash  of  pepper  if  desired. 

Pan  Roast. — Put  in  a  sauce-pan  or  chafing-dish,  and 
gently  stir  with  spoon.  When  the  oyster  grows  plump 
and  the  edges  curl,  remove  from  heat.  Season  with 
salt,  butter,  and  dash  of  pepper;  serve  with  combination 
salad. 

A  double  boiler  may  be  used — an  oatmeal  cooker. 
Place  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  in  the  small  boiler; 
have  the  large  boiler  filled  two-thirds  full  of  water  at  a 


Our  Cook  Book 


257 


temperature  of  150  degrees.  Be  careful  not  to  cook  too 
long;  for,  if  the  albumin  is  made  tough  by  too  much  heat, 
it  is  rendered  indigestible. 

Stew 

1  quart  milk  iy2  pints  oysters 

Put  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  in  a  double  boiler, 
and  heat  through  thoroughly.  Have  the  milk  hot,  and 
drop  the  oysters  into  the  hot  milk,  but  do  not  cook  the 
two  together.    Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  butter. 

Soup 

1  quart  oysters  Sprig  of  parsley 

4  cups  milk  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

1  slice  onion  1/3  cup  butter 

2  stalks  celery  Salt  and  pepper 

2  blades  mace 

Clean  oysters,  reserving  liquor;  add  oysters,  slightly 
chopped.  Heat  slowly  to  boiling-point.  Strain  through 
cheese-cloth.  Scald  milk  with  onion,  celery,  mace,  pars- 
ley, and  bay  leaf.  Remove  seasonings,  and  add  oyster 
liquor.    Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

French  Oyster  Soup. — Same  as  oyster  soup  above, 
adding  yolks  of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  just  before 
serving. 

Cream  of  Clam  Soup. — Make  same  as  French  oyster 
soup,  using  clams  in  place  of  oysters. 


258 


Food 


EGGS 

Soft-boiled. — Eggs,  being  albumin,  should  no<r  be 
cooked  in  boiling  water.  Eggs  are  best  cooked  in  the 
shell,  as  follows:  Place  the  eggs  in  boiling  water,  re- 
move from  the  fire,  and  allow  them  to  stand  for  eight 
or  ten  minutes.  If  the  eggs  are  very  cold,  they  should 
be  left  in  the  water  from  two  to  four  minutes  longer. 

Hard-boiled. — To  cook  eggs  hard,  place  in  cold 
water,  and  allow  the  water  to  come  to  the  boiling-point; 
then  place  on  the  back  of  the  stove  for  twenty  minutes. 
Do  not  boil. 

Egg  Broth. — When  meat  cannot  be  had,  a  broth  may 
be  made  from  eggs.  Heat  four  tablespoons  of  water  to 
the  boiling-point,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  a 
previously  beaten  egg.  This  broth  may  be  made  of 
the  white  exclusively.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  a 
little  butter  or  cream. 

Egg-and-Beef  Broth. — One  cup  of  hot  beef  broth, 
one  egg,  and  salt  sufficient.  Beat  the  white  and  yolk 
separately.  To  the  yolk  add  gradually  the  hot  broth, 
stirring  continually.  Add  the  salt,  and  stir  in  the  well- 
beaten  egg  whites.    Reheat,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Steamed. — Break  an  egg  in  a  sauce-plate  previously 
heated  and  buttered  enough  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to 
the  plate;  place  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water,  and 
cook  until  the  white  is  firm.    Salt  and  butter  slightly. 

Scrambled. — One  tablespoon  of  milk,  half  cream,  to 
each  egg;  beat  thoroughly,  and  put  in  a  buttered  pan; 
then  place  this  pan  in  another  containing  near-boiling 
water,  and  stir  until  the  eggs  are  cooked  to  the  desired 
consistency;  then  salt  to  taste. 


Our  Cook  Book 


259 


A  double  boiler  is  convenient  for  cooking  scrambled 
eggs.  Have  the  water  hot,  but  not  boiling.  To  boil  eggs 
hardens  the  albumin  and  causes  them  to  be  indigestible. 

Poached  in  Milk. — Melt  butter,  a  half  of  an  inch  cube, 
in  half  a  teacup  of  hot,  rich  milk,  in  a  double  boiler;  put 
in  two  to  four  eggs,  and  cook  carefully,  not  allowing  the 
water  to  boil  in  the  boiler.    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Omelet 

6  eggs  6  tablespoons  milk 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  separately;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste;  add  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  light. 
Put  into  a  large  spider,  when  hot,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  half  an  egg,  and,  when  melted,  pour  the  eggs  into 
it.  When  cooked  in  the  middle,  turn  one-half  over  the 
other  and  slip  on  to  a  hot  platter.    Serve  at  once. 

Individual  Omelet. — Beat  white  and  yolk  of  egg  sep- 
arately. Mix  pinch  of  salt  and  one  tablespoon  of  water 
with  yolk.  Stir  into  hot  buttered  skillet.  Let  set  and 
brown.  Set  in  oven  to  dry.  Fold  and  serve.  (M.  S. 
Starr,  Woodbury,  Conn.) 


260 


Food 


FOWL 

Broiled  Chicken. — To  broil:  singe;  wipe  with  a  damp 
cloth;  then  with  a  sharp  knife  or  game  shears  split  the 
chicken  down  the  back,  beginning  at  the  back  of  the  neck 
and  cutting  through  the  backbone  the  entire  length  of  the 
bird.  Lay  the  bird  open  and  remove  the  contents.  Cut 
through  tendons  or  joints,  and  wipe  thoroughly. 

Boil  ten  to  thirty  minutes,  depending  on  size.  Serve 
on  hot  plate,  and  eat  with  fresh  fruit,  or  jellies,  and 
cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables.  Instead  of  fruit,  eat 
the  chicken  with  any  combination  salad,  and  dress  the 
salad  with  salt,  olive  oil,  and  lemon  juice,  or  salt  and 
lemon  juice.  Fruit  and  vegetable  pickles  may  be  added 
to  the  meal. 

For  best  digestive  results,  season  only  after  serving, 
and  eat  with  combinations  suggested. 

For  those  who  live  for  pleasure  and  whose  jaded 
appetites  must  have  stimulation,  the  bird  may  be  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper,  as  much  as  desired.  Rub 
thickly  with  softened  butter,  and  dredge  with  flour;  broil; 
serve  on  hot  buttered  toast,  and  garnish  with  toast  points. 
Bread,  butter,  jelly,  and  potatoes  in  any  form  desired; 
etc.,  etc. 

Roast  Chicken. — Cut  chicken  as  for  serving.  Wet 
each  piece.  Cut  small  pieces  of  salt  pork,  and  place  in 
bottom  of  roaster.  Place  cut-up  chicken  on  top  of  pork. 
Put  in  enough  water  to  cover  bottom  of  roaster.  Put 
cover  on  roaster,  and  roast  until  chicken  is  tender.  More 
water  may  be  added,  if  needed.  If  not  browned  enough, 
remove  cover  from  roaster  one  half-hour  before  serving. 


Our  Cook  Book 


261 


Chicken  Loaf 

1  chicken  y2  ounce  gelatin 

2  or  3  hard-boiled  eggs  Salt  and  pepper 

Boil  chicken  until  meat  leaves  bone.  Remove  from 
liquor.  Pick  up,  keeping  dark  and  light  meat  separate. 
Take  three  cups  of  liquor,  and  add  gelatin  soaked  in  cold 
water.  Stir  until  gelatin  dissolves,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Place  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  in  bottom  of  mold.  Pour 
in  layer  of  jelly.  Let  set  slightly;  then  fill  mold  with 
alternate  layers  of  light  and  dark  meat,  pouring  in  a  little 
jelly  well  seasoned  with  each  layer.  Set  away  in  cool 
place  to  harden. 

Digestibility  of  Various  Forms  of  Cooking. — Steamed 
meat  is  easy  of  digestion.  Broiled  meat  is  appetizing, 
but  not  so  good  for  those  with  very  delicate  digestion. 
Stewed  meat  is  easy  of  digestion.  Pot  roasts  are  espe- 
cially fine  when  cooked  in  very  little  water  and  well 
browned. 


262 


Foo» 


SOUP 

Vegetable  Soup.-; — Take  equal  parts  of  four  or  five 
of  the  following  vegetables:  potatoes,  turnips,  kohlrabi, 
carrots,  parsnips,  cabbage,  spinach,  onions,  okra,  salsify, 
green  peas,  corn  or  beans.  Run  the  vegetables  through 
a  vegetable  mill,  or  chop  very  fine.  Put  to  cook  with 
enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and,  when  tender,  re- 
duce to  the  consistency  of  soup  by  adding  boiling  water. 
Season  with  salt  and  butter.  Those  in  full  health  may 
use  hot  milk  to  reduce  in  the  place  of  water. 

Cream  of  Tomato 

1  pint  tomatoes,  strained  1  cup  milk 

1  cup  cream 

Put  tomatoes  in  double  boiler  and,  when  near  boiling- 
point,  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  soda.  Add  milk  and 
cream  (hot)  to  tomatoes,  and  season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per; or  drop  cream  and  add  one  cup  of  broth. 

Cream  of  Corn 

1  can  corn  1  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  large  onion 

Cook  corn  and  onion  until  tender.  Press  through 
sieve.  Melt  butter  in  pan,  rub  in  flour,  and  then  add  milk, 
heating  slowly.  When  thoroughly  thickened,  add  corn  and 
onion,  and  about  a  half-cup  of  meat  stock.  Just  before 
serving  add  a  little  cream  to  each  bowl.  If  not  thin 
enough,  add  more  milk.  (Mrs.  E.  E.  Gantz,  Denver, 
Colo.) 

Cream  of  Pea  or  Celery. — Use  the  same  proportion 

as  for  the  cream-of-corn  soup,  substituting  peas  or  celery 
in  place  of  corn. 


Our  Cook  Book 


263 


Potato 

6  medium  potatoes  1  stalk  celery 

1  small  onion  1  quart  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Boil  potatoes,  celery,  and  onion  until  tender.  Cut 
potatoes  in  slices,  or  mash.  Add  boiling  milk,  butter, 
and  salt  and  pepper.    Serve  hot. 

Cream  of  Spinach. — Pick,  wash,  and  boil  enough 
spinach  to  measure  one  pint  after  cooking.  Add  to  this 
one  quart  of  milk  heated  in  double  boiler.  Let  boil  up, 
then  rub  through  a  strainer.  Set  over  fire  again,  and, 
when  on  the  point  of  boiling,  mix  with  it  one  tablespoon 
of  salt  and  a  little  lemon  juice.  One  tablespoon  of  cream 
may  be  added  to  each  bowl  of  soup.  (Mrs*  H.  J.  Leh- 
man, Denver,  Colo.) 

Impromptu 

1  pound  round  steak  (ground)         1  can  tomatoes 

Stew  together,  and  eat  with  celery  as  a  thick  soup  or 
stew.  This  dish  can  be  quickly  prepared  and  is  very 
tasty.  (Mrs.  T.  J.  Hauptman,  Chicago,  111.) 


264 


Food 


VEGETABLES 

Non-starchy  Vegetables. — Beets,  turnips,  carrots, 
parsnips,  summer  squash,  cabbage,  cauliflower,  Brussels 
sprouts,  green  corn,  green  peas,  string  beans,  asparagus, 
onions,  egg  plant,  salsify,  okra,  kohlrabi,  endive,  lettuce, 
tomatoes,  cucumbers,  celery,  chard,  spinach,  dandelion, 
and  all  plants  used  as  greens. 

The  use  of  the  word  "non-starchy* *  is  purely  arbi- 
trary, for  there  is  starch  in  all  vegetables,  but  it  exists  in 
relatively  small  proportions  in  the  so-called  non-starchy 
vegetables. 

Decidedly  Starchy  Foods. — Every  preparation  made 
from  the  grains — wheat,  rye,  oats,  barley,  corn,  rice;  also 
the  Irish  and  sweet  potato,  dry  beans  and  peas,  tapioca, 
sago,  peanuts,  chestnuts,  bananas,  Hubbard  squash,  and 
pumpkin.  The  last  three  items  listed  have  a  decided 
tendency  to  ferment.  Those  who  are  troubled  with 
souring  of  the  stomach  should  not  eat  them. 

Non-starchy  Vegetables. — Prepare  the  vegetables  in 
the  usual  way,  and  put  to  cook  in  just  enough  water  to 
prevent  burning.  When  properly  cooked,  the  water 
should  be  practically  all  boiled  away.  What  water  re- 
mains should  be  a  rich  juice,  and  should  be  served  with 
the  vegetables.  Positively  no  seasoning  is  to  be  added 
to  any  food  until  served;  then  each  person  should  season 
to  suit  himself,  with  salt,  and  butter  or  cream.  Do  not 
use  flour,  or  starch  dressings,  or  so-called  cream  dressings. 
The  cooking-vessel  should  have  a  tight-fitting  cover.  A 
double  boiler  may  often  be  used  to  advantage;  it  min- 
imizes the  danger  of  burning.  Steam  cooking  is  an  ideal 
way,  and  the  fireless  cooking  is  said  to  give  satisfaction. 
When  the  double  boiler  is  used,  little,  if  any,  water  is 
needed.  The  more  nearly  vegetables  are  cooked  in  their 
own  juice,  the  better. 


Our  Cook  Book  265 

Beets,  turnips,  carrots,  parsnips,  summer  squash,  cab- 
bage, cauliflower,  Brussels  sprouts,  green  peas,  string 
beans,  asparagus,  onions,  egg-plant,  salsify,  okra,  kohl- 
rabi, etc.,  should  be  cooked  as  above. 

Green  Corn. — Long  boiling  is  not  necessary  for  green 
corn.  It  should  be  put  to  cook  in  cold  water,  and,  when 
the  boiling-point  is  reached,  allowed  to  cook  for  five  or 
seven  minutes  longer. 

Endive,  lettuce,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  and  celery  are 
better  eaten  raw.  They  are  killed  as  a  food  when 
cooked. 

Vegetable  Potpourri 

6  or  8  okra  pods  1  small  head  cauliflower 

6  or  8  small  onions        6  or  8  medium-sized  carrots 

Break  cauliflower  into  buds;  leave  okra  whole;  quarter 
carrots,  lengthwise.  Steam  all  until  tender.  Dress  with 
cream  or  butter,  and  serve.  Other  combinations  may 
be  used  in  the  same  way.  Big,  green  Lima  beans  and 
green  corn  are  fine;  also  tomatoes,  okra,  and  onions. 
(Mrs.  A.  R.  Gunder,  Brownstown,  Ind.) 

Spinach  or  Other  Greens. — Thoroughly  wash  and 
rinse.  Place  in  hot  cooking-vessel,  and  stir  until  the 
leaves  are  wilted.  Do  not  add  water.  Enough  juice  will 
exude  to  almost,  if  not  quite,  cover  the  vegetables.  Allow 
them  to  cook  slowly  in  their  own  juice.  When  served, 
season  with  salt  and  butter;  or  salt,  olive  oil,  and  lemon 
juice.  Care  must  be  used  not  to  cook  on  too  hot  a  fire. 
Cook  slowly;  otherwise  the  vegetables  will  be  dry,  and 
unfit  to  eat. 

When  cooking  with  gas,  it  may  be  necessary  to  add 
a  little  water;  but  avoid  adding  too  much.  Use  asbestos 
mats  enough  to  prevent  burning. 

Potatoes. — Potatoes  should  either  be  boiled  with  the 
jackets  on,  or  baked. 


266 


Food 


Dry  Beans  and  Peas. — These  two  foods  are  ruined  by 
the  practice  of  soaking  overnight,  and  then  throwing  off 
the  water  in  which  they  were  soaked,  and  cooking  in 
fresh  water.  In  soaking,  the  soda  is  thrown  off  with  the 
water,  and  the  alkaline  potentiality  of  the  food  is  de- 
stroyed. These  two  starchy  foods  should  be  soaked  over- 
night and  cooked  in  the  water  in  which  they  were 
soaked.  No  seasoning  should  be  added  until  thoroughly 
cooked. 

Pork  and  Beans. — The  beans  should  be  thoroughly 
cooked,  as  directed  above.  Strips  of  bacon  should  be 
cut  up  into  small  pieces  and  cooked.  The  juice  of  the 
meat  should  then  be  poured  over  the  beans,  and  the  small 
pieces  of  meat  mixed  with  the  beans;  but  no  cooking 
should  be  done  after  the  meat  is  put  with  the  beans. 

Bananas. — Many  people  bake  the  banana;  but  why 
spoil  a  food  that  is  hard  to  digest  when  not  cooked?  I 
do  not  advise  mixing  any  other  food  in  the  same  meal  with 
bananas,  and  I  do  not  advise  cooking  them. 


Our  Cook  Book 


267 


SALADS* 

Tflden  Salad. — Use  equal  parts  of  lettuce,  tomatoes, 
and  cucumbers,  in  the  summer  time.  In  the  winter  time, 
celery  may  be  substituted  for  the  cucumbers.  Allow  the 
vegetables  to  stand  in  cold  water  a  couple  of  hours  before 
using.  Cut  up  together  and  dress  with  salt,  olive  oil, 
and  lemon  juice.  A  small  amount  of  onion  may  be 
added,  if  desired. 

If  it  is  impossible  to  get  tomatoes,  use  lettuce,  celery, 
and  cabbage,  dressed  in  the  same  way.  Mayonnaise 
dressing  may  be  used,  made  according  to  recipe. 

Aspic  of  Tomato  (for  winter  salad) 
1  can  tomatoes  run  through     1  envelope  Knox's  gelatin 
a  sieve 

Heat  tomatoes;  add  gelatin  soaked.  Pour  into  indi- 
vidual molds.  Use  instead  of  canned  tomatoes  in  the 
above  combination  salad.  It  is  not  so  juicy  and  gives  the 
salad  a  better  appearance,  without  sacrificing  any  food 
value.    (Mrs.  A.  R.  Gunder.) 

Spinach  Salad. — Fresh,  cold,  boiled  spinach  placed 
in  nests  of  cold  lettuce,  seasoned  with  salt  and  lemon, 
makes  a  very  tasty  salad  to  serve  with  meat.  Left-over 
asparagus  or  string  beans  may  be  used  also.  (Mrs.  H.  R. 
Worthley,  Arlington,  Mass.) 

Vegetable  Salad  with  Garlic. — Wash  well  two  heads 
of  lettuce;  take  and  mince  one  clove  or  garlic,  and  rub 
the  salad  bowl  well  with  the  same;  then  take  and  slice 
three  tomatoes,  four  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one  head  of 
celery,  and  one  cucumber  if  in  season.  Mix  well  to- 
gether and  dress  with  salt,  olive  oil,  and  lemon  juice  or 

*In  cutting  up  the  onion  for  any  salad,  if  there  is  a  dis- 
agreeable odor  left  on  the  hands  after  the  salad  is  prepared, 
moisten  the  hands  and  rub  with  common  table  salt;  then 
wash  thoroughly.    This  will  remove  the  odor  of  onion. 


268 


Food 


mayonnaise  dressing.  Cabbage  may  be  added,  if  de- 
sired. 

Slaw  and  Vegetables. — Slice  one  small  head  of  sum- 
mer cabbage  very  fine.  Add  the  leaves  of  one  good- 
sized  head  of  lettuce,  three  tomatoes,  one  good-sized 
stalk  of  celery,  and  one  cucumber  if  in  season.  Dress 
with  mayonnaise  or  salt,  lemon  juice,  and  olive  oil. 

Slaw  No.  2. — Slice  one  small  head  of  summer  cab- 
bage very  fine.  Add  the  leaves  of  one  good-sized  head 
of  lettuce,  two  sweet  apples,  and  one  stalk  of  celery. 

Fruit  Salad. — Place  crisp  lettuce  leaves  in  a  deep 
bowl,  and  fill  with  fresh-cut  apples,  celery,  and  pecans. 
Make  all  cold.  Dress  with  either  mayonnaise  or  Tilden 
salad  dressing.    (Mrs.  H.  R.  Worthley.) 

Pineapple  Salad. — Lay  a  slice  of  pineapple  on  a  few 
lettuce  leaves.  In  the  center  of  the  slice  place  one-table- 
spoon of  soft  cheese,  such  as  comes  in  tin-foil.  On  top 
of  this  scatter  chopped  nuts.  Cover  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  (cooked),  with  a  cherry  on  top. 

Egg  Salad. — Slice  hard-boiled  eggs  and  place  on 
lettuce  leaves.  Add  finely  cut  celery  and  cucumber. 
Dress  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Carrot  Salad 

1  cup  chopped  carrots    3  or  4  tablespoons  canned 
y2  cup  chopped  celery  tomatoes  (use  fresh  if  in 

%  teaspoon  salt.  season) 

Mix  all  together  well,  and  serve  with  lettuce  leaves. 
Dress  with  either  salt,  olive  oil,  and  lemon  juice,  or  may- 
onnaise dressing.     (Mrs.  Louise  Pirie,  Chicago,  111.) 

Stuffed-Tomato  Salad. — Peel  six  medium-sized  toma- 
toes and  remove  the  centers.  Sprinkle  the  inside  of  each 
shell  with  salt.  Invert,  and  let  stand  on  ice  till  chilled. 
Fill  with  equal  parts  of  walnut  meats,  celery,  and  apple,  cut 
fine.    Serve  with  French  dressing  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 


Our  Cook  Book 


26* 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 
French  Dressing. — Put  into  a  dish  or  bowl  a  half 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper;  rub  the 
salad  fork  with  garlic;  add  four  tablespoons  of  olive  oil, 
and  stir  with  the  fork;  add  one  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice,  mix  well,  and  pour  it  over  the  salad. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. — For  a  pint  of  mayonnaise 
dressing  take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  saltspoon  of 
salt,  a  little  black  pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  of  dry  mus- 
tard, two  dessert  spoons  of  lemon  juice.  Mix  into  a 
smooth  paste  in  a  bowl  that  has  been  well  rubbed  with 
garlic;  then  add  three-fourths  pint  of  best  olive  oil  and 
two  ounces  of  lemon  juice.  Stir  in  a  few  drops  at  a  time, 
till  the  mixture  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Place  on  ice 
for  a  few  hours  before  bottling  or  serving. 

Salad  Dressing 

2  egg  yolks  y2  cup  sugar 

%  cup  lemon  juice  %  teaspoon  salt 

y2  cup  water  iy2  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 
Mix  dry  ingredients.  Beat  the  eggs  and  add  to  dry  in- 
gredients. Then  add  lemon  juice  and  water.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  (not  aluminum).  Thin  with  whipped 
cream  or  sour  cream.  (Miss  L.  Matkins,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.) 

Salad  Dressing  (small  recipe) 
y2  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  milk 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Salt  to  season 

1  egg  y^  cup  lemon  juice 

^4  cup  water 

Mix  as  above,  and  thin  with  whipped  cream  or  sour 
cream  when  cool. 

Whipped-Cream  Dressing. — Any  of  the  prepared 
salad  dressings  on  the  market  may  be  used  with  whipped 
cream.  Use  half  whipped  cream  and  half  prepared 
mayonnaise  dressing. 


f 


279  Food 

PUDDINGS  AND  DESSERTS 

Apple  Pie  with  One  Crust. — Slice  pie-dish  level  full 
of  apples.  Make  a  crust  of  one  cup  flour  (scant),  one 
tablespoon  lard,  one  teaspoon  baking-powder;  water  to 
mix  well.  Roll  out  and  spread  over  apples.  Bake  until 
apples  are  tender.  Place  plate  on  top,  and  turn  out  with 
apples  on  top  of  crust.  Spread  over  apples  after  mixing: 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  and 
one-half  cup  sugar.  Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  and  spread 
over  all,  and  replace  in  oven  to  brown.  (Mrs.  E.  E. 
Gantz. ) 

Prune  Whip 

%  pound  prunes  1/3  tablespoon  cream  of  tartar 

5  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  5  eggs 

Stew  prunes,  stone,  and  cut  up.  Separate  eggs,  beat 
whites  stiff,  and  sift  in  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar.  Spread 
one-half  the  mixture  in  a  buttered  pan,  and  put  in  half 
the  prunes,  half  the  remaining  mixture,  and  then  the  rest 
of  the  prunes.    Cover  with  egg  left. 

Apple  Jello. — Dissolve  one  package  of  cherry  Jello 
in  hot  water.  When  partly  set,  take  a  large  tart  apple, 
cooked  and  grated,  and  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  beat 
all  to  a  froth.  Whip  into  the  jelly  with  a  fork.  Serve 
with  yellow  sauce,  made  as  follows: 

1  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  egg  yolk 

Let  milk  and  sugar  come  to  boil;  pour  in  beaten  egg 
yolk;  cool  and  serve.    (Mrs.  H.  J.  Lehman.) 

Apricot  Whip 

1  pound  evaporated  apricots  2  egg  whites 

1  pint  whipped  cream 

Soak  the  apricots  overnight,  after  washing  thoroughly. 
Cook  them  slowly  in  the  water  in  which  they  have  been 


Our  Cook  Book 


271 


soaked.  Pour  off  the  juice.  Mash  to  a  smooth  pulp. 
Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  carefully  with  the 
apricot  pulp.  Pile  in  a  baking-dish  and  set  in  oven  for 
about  five  minutes.  Serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  a  spoon- 
ful of  whipped  cream  on  top.    (Mrs.  H.  J.  Lehman.) 

Fruit  Cocktail  (for  six  persons) 

1  can  pineapple  Juice  of  2  lemons 

2  large  oranges  Small  bottle  maraschino  cherries 

4  ounces  powdered  sugar 

Cut  up  fruit,  chill,  and  serve  in  sherbet  glasses  with  a 
spray  of  mint.    (Mrs.  H.  J.  Lehman.) 

Date  Pudding. — Stone  one  pound  of  dates,  and  sim- 
mer slowly  in  one  quart  of  milk.  It  may  seem  thin  at 
first,  but  it  will  come  to  the  consistency  of  pudding.  This 
may  be  served  with  whipped  cream  and  nuts,  if  desired. 
(Mrs.  T.  J.  Hauptman.) 

Peach  Cobbler. — Put  into  a  baking-dish  one  pint 
cooked  peaches,  with  juice.  Make  a  rich  dough  by  tak- 
ing one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking-powder,  and  one 
inch  cube  of  butter.  Mix  well  together.  Add  enough 
milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  and  cover  the 
peaches.  Put  small  pieces  of  butter  on  top,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  cream.  (Mrs.  H.  J.  Leh- 
man.) 

Rice  Pudding 

%  cup  cooked  rice  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  1%  pints  new  milk 

3  well-beaten  eggs  2/3  cup  raisins 

Bake  one-half  hour. 

Baked  Custard 

1  quart  milk  Y2  cup  sugar 

6  eggs  1  teaspoon  flavoring  (vanilla) 

Nutmeg 

Bake  in  cups.     (Miss  L.  Matkins.) 


272 


Food 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

ice- Cream  for  Small  Famfly 

1  cup  rich  cream  %  cup  sugar 

3  cups  whole  milk  Flavoring  to  taste 

Dissolve  sugar  in  one  cup  milk,  heating  gradually  to 
do  so.  Cool,  and  add  other  milk  and  cream.  Set  on  ice 
until  needed.  To  freeze,  use  three-quart  freezer  and 
break  ice  fine,*  using  one  part  of  salt  to  three  parts  of  ice. 
This  can  be  done  in  about  five  minutes.  (Mrs.  A.  R. 
Gunder. ) 

Apricot  Sherbet 

1  pint  milk  1  pint  water 

1  pint  sugar  1  pint  canned  apricots 

Mix  together  milk,  sugar,  and  apricots  rubbed  through 
a  sieve.  Peaches  may  be  substituted  for  apricots.  Freeze. 
(Mrs.  H.  J.  Lehman.) 

Maple  Mousse 

1  pint  cream  Yolks  of  four  eggs 

1  large  cup  maple  syrup 

Place  the  syrup  in  a  sauce-pan,  and  stir  into  it  the 
beaten  yolks.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  thicken  the 
syrup.  Take  from  the  fire,  and  place  sauce-pan  in  a  dish 
of  ice-water.  Continue  beating  until  the  mixture  is  light 
and  cold.  Whip  the  cream  and  drain,  and  add  it  lightly 
to  the  syrup.  Either  let  stand  for  three  or  four  hours 
packed  in  ice  and  salt  in  freezer,  or  freeze  the  same  as  ice- 
cream. If  packed,  more  salt  should  be  used  than  for 
ordinary  freezing. 


♦To  break  ice  for  the  table  or  for  ice-cream,  have  a  bag 
of  ticking  made  for  that  purpose,  place  ice  in  this,  and  beat 
with  a  hammer.    This  is  speedy  and  avoids  a  muss. 


Our  Cook  Book 


273 


CAKES 

Sponge  Cake 
£  eggs  well  beaten  1  cup  flour  with 

1  cup  sugar,  beaten  with  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking-powder  sifted 
y2  small  cup  hot  water 

Add  hot  water,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time,  and  beat  in 
flour-beater.  Flavor  if  desired.  Beat  thoroughly,  and 
put  into  oven  quickly. 

French  Cream  Cake 

3  eggs  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

iy2  cups  flour 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and  then  add  the 
cold  water.  Mix  baking-powder  in  flour  and  add  to  mix- 
ture. Bake  in  two  thin  cakes.  Split  each  cake  while  hot, 
and  fill  in  with  cream,  prepared  as  follows: 

1  pint  new  milk  1  beaten  egg 

2  tablespoons  corn  starch  Butter  size  of  egg 

Add  corn  starch,  beaten  egg,  and  butter  to  the  milk, 
and  cook  until  thick.    Flavor.    (Mrs.  E.  E.  Gantz.) 

Honey  Cake 

1  cup  butter  1  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  honey  2  teaspoons  soda 
2  eggs  4  cups  flour 

Melt  butter  and  add  to  honey.  Beat  eggs  and  add  to 
mixture.  Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk  and  mix;  then  add 
flour  (sifted)  gradually,  and  put  in  buttered,  shallow  pan. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Will  be  about  one  and  one- 
fourth  inches  thick.     (Martha  Bauer,  San  Diego,  Cal.) 

Honey  Sponge  Cake. — Mix  one-half  cup  sugar  and 
one-half  cup  honey.  Boil  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread. 
Pour  over  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  this 
mixture  until  cold,  then  add  one  cup  sifted  flour,  and 
fold  the  beaten  whites  of  the  four  eggs  into  the  mixture. 


274 


Food 


Pour  into  a  pan  lined  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.    (Mrs.  H.  J.  Lehman.) 

Golden  Angel  Cake  (good  for  child's  lunch) 
1  rounded  teaspoon  baking-powder  1  cup  sugar 

4  or  5  eggs  (4  will  do,  5  are  better)  1  cup  flour 

Break  and  separate  eggs,  putting  yolks  on  the  sugar 
in  mixing-bowl  to  moisten  it  while  flour  and  baking- 
powder  are  sifted  four  times.  Beat  whites  to  stiff  froth. 
Cream  yolks  and  sugar  very  lightly,  add  whites  and  flour 
quickly,  and  mix  lightly.  Bake  in  slow  oven,  as  for 
angel-food  cake.     (Mrs.  A.  R.  Gunder.) 

Ginger  Bread 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  brown  sugar       1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
%  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  ginger 

2  eggs  Small  portion  cloves 

2  cups  unsifted  flour     1  cup  boiling  water,  added  last 

(Miss  Belle  Walker,  Denver,  Colo.) 

Plain  Cake 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

Sift  all  together.  In  measuring-cup  melt  one-fourth 
cup  butter.  Add  two  eggs,  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Add 
to  dry  ingredients.  Flavor  with  vanilla,  and  bake  in  slow 
oven  forty  minutes.    Use  sheet-tin. 

Plain  Oatmeal  Cookies 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  dry  oatmeal  (be  sure  to  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

use   steam  prepared   oat-  1  egg 
meal,  like  H.  0.)  1  scant  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  well- 
beaten  egg.  Stir  in  H.  O.,  baking-powder,  and  salt 
mixed.  This  mixture  may  seem  dry  at  first.  Drop  about 
teaspoon  quantities  on  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  quick 


Our  Cook  Book 


275 


oven.  Allow  to  stand  in  pan  until  cool.  Then  place  over 
slight  heat,  and  they  will  slip  off  pan  easily.  (Mrs.  E.  A. 
Van  Deusen.) 

Plain  White  Cookies 

1  cup  butter  Sy2  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

2/3  cup  sweet  milk    2  heaping  teaspoons  baking-powder 
2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  milk.  Add 
flour  with  baking-powder  and  extract.  Mix  soft,  and 
roll.    This  makes  a  large  quantity  of  cookies. 


276 


Food 


BREAD 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits 

1  quart  flour  1  scant  teaspoon  salt 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking-        1  tablespoon  (rounded)  lard 

powder  or  butter 

Milk  (unskimmed),  enough  (a  pint  or  more)  to  make  a  soft 

dough 

Do  not  knead.  Roll  or  pat  the  dough  out  thin — about 
three- fourths  of  an  inch  thick — and  then  cut.  Have 
oven  hot,  and,  after  putting  the  biscuits  in,  leave  door 
open  five  or  six  minutes.  Then  close  oven.  A  small 
piece  of  butter  may  be  put  on  top  of  each  biscuit.  (Miss 
L.  Matkins.) 

Tilden  Bread. — The  above  recipe  may  be  used,  and 
the  dough  put  into  the  shape  of  a  loaf,  baked,  sliced  when 
cool,  and  toasted.  Or  the  dough  may  be  made  into  the 
form  of  sticks,  and  baked. 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits 

1  quart  flour  1  scant  teaspoon  salt 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking-powder      %  pint  cream 

*4  pint  milk 

Mix  flour,  baking-powder,  and  salt,  and  lastly  the 
cream  and  milk.  Prepare  for  oven,  and  bake  as  above. 
(Mrs.  E.  A.  Van  Deusen.) 

Baking-Powder  Biscuits,  Whole-Wheat 

1  pint  whole-wheat  flour  1  scant  teaspoon  salt 

1  pint  white  flour  1  tablespoon  (rounded)  lard  or 

4  teaspoons  baking-powder  butter 

Milk  (unskimmed),  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough 

Mix  as  for  the  white- flour  biscuits.  If  desired,  the 
shortening  may  be  omitted,  also  the  milk,  and  three- 
fourths  pint  of  cream  and  one-fourth  pint  of  milk  used  in 
their  stead. 


Our  Cook  Book 


277 


Tflden  Biscuits,  No.  1 

1  quart  flour  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking- 

Salt  sufficient  powder 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
Milk  sufficient  to  make  soft  dough 

Rub  the  baking-powder,  salt,  butter,  and  flour  to- 
gether. Add  milk,  and  manipulate  rapidly  into  a  soft 
dough.  The  more  quickly  the  bread  is  in  the  oven,  the 
better.  The  biscuit  dough  should  be  teased,  rather  than 
rolled,  into  a  sheet  about  one-half  inch  thick.  Cut  into 
strips  one  and  one-half  inches  wide.  Place  in  baking-pan. 
Have  oven  at  a  baking  temperature,  and  get  dough  into 
oven  as  quickly  as  possible.    (Mrs.  J.  H.  Tilden.) 

THden  Biscuits,  No.  2 

1  quart  flour  Equal  parts  of  sour  cream  and 

Salt  sufficient  sour   milk  to   make  soft 

1  heaping  teaspoon  baking-  dough 

powder  Enough  baking-soda   to  neu- 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  tralize  the  acid  of  sour  milk 

Mix  flour,  baking-powder,  salt,  and  butter  together. 
Use  enough  soda  in  sour  milk  and  cream  to  neutralize 
acid.  The  acid  is  neutralized  when  the  milk  ceases  to 
ferment  or  bubble  on  adding  soda.  Add  milk  to  dough, 
and  proceed  as  above  to  bake.  The  amount  of  soda  used 
depends  upon  the  sourness  of  the  milk.  (Mrs.  J.  H.  Til- 
den.) 

Graham  Gems 

1  cup  milk  2  teaspoons  baking-powdtr 

2  tablespoons  sugar         V2  teaspoon  salt 

Graham  flour— stir  stiff 

(M.  S.  Starr.) 


278 


Food 


Corn  Bread  Loaf 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  tablespoon  shortening 

1  cup  white  flour  2  teaspoons  baking-powder 

2  tablespoons  sugar  (heaping) 

1  level  teaspoon  salt        1  egg,  beaten  very  light 
1  cup  milk  (sweet) 

Bake  in  brick  loaf  in  slow  oven  about  forty  minutes. 
(A.  M.  Munson,  Monrovia,  Cal.) 

Formula  for  Making  Baking-Powder 

69^  per  cent  cream  of  30%  per  cent  bicarbonate  of 

tartar  soda 

or 

A  little  more  than  two-thirds  cream  of  tartar  and  a  little  less 
than  one-third  soda,  mixed  thoroughly  together,  and  sifted 
and  resifted. 

I  am  indebted  for  this  formula  to  Mr.  Charles  Flam- 
mer,  who  is  with  A.  Schilling  &  Co.,  of  San  Francisco. 
They  are  the  producers  of  Schilling  Best  Baking  Powder. 

Rabin  Muffins 

1  cup  flour  1  egg 

1  heaping  teaspoon  bak-    1  tablespoon  sugar 

ing-powder  1  tablespoon  butter  melted 

Milk  enough  to  make  it  drop  well  from  spoon 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  and  baking-powder;  add  raisins,  and 
then  egg,  milk,  and  butter.  Drop  into  muffin  pans. 
Bake  in  quite  hot  oven.  Dates  may  be  used  in  place  of 
raisins. 

Corn-Meal  Muffins  (makes  six) 
%  cup  corn  meal  teaspoon  baking-powder 

%  cup  white  flour  %  cup  buttermilk 

Salt  %  teaspoon  soda 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  if  desired 

Mix  flour  and  baking-powder  with  salt.  Mix  butter- 
milk and  soda  with  sugar,  and  then  combine  all.  (M.  S. 
Starr.) 


Our  Cook  Book 


279 


CEREALS  AND  BREAKFAST  DISHES 

Oatmeal. — In  cooking  oatmeal,  or  any  of  the  break- 
fast cereals,  use  about  one  part  of  the  cereal  to  five  parts 
of  water.  Cook  until  the  mixture  has  reached  the  con- 
sistency of  mush.  Then  dress  with  salt  and  butter,  or 
salt  and  cream — no  sugar. 

Rice. — Rice  should  be  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  in 
about  the  same  proportion  as  for  the  cereal  given  above. 
Do  not  season  until  cooked,  and  then  dress  with  salt  and 
butter,  or  cream  and  salt.  Pure  cream  should  not  be 
used  on  these  foods;  it  should  be  in  about  the  propor- 
tion of  half  milk  and  half  cream. 

Waffles 

1  pint  new  milk  %  cup  melted  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking-powder        4  eggs 
Flour  Salt 

Mix  milk,  butter,  a  little  salt  and  flour  to  make  a  soft 
batter.  Add  well-beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  the  whites 
beaten  stiff,  and  lastly  baking-powder.  Beat  fast  for  a 
few  minutes.  Bake  quickly.  The  same  may  be  used  for 
griddle  cakes. 

Pancakes 

1  egg  %  cup  flour 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  baking-powder 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Beat  egg  with  a  spoon.  Add  milk,  flour,  and  salt;  bak- 
ing-powder last.  Bake  on  hot  griddle.  (Miss  L.  Mat- 
kins.  ) 


280 


Food 


FOR  USING  LEFT-OVERS 

Chicken  Loaf. — Take  two  cups  of  cold  chicken 
chopped  fine,  and  one-half  cup  of  cold  peas  with  their 
liquor,  if  any.  Dissolve  one  envelope  of  Knox's  gelatin, 
as  per  directions  in  booklet;  add  to  the  heated  chicken 
and  peas.  Pour  into  a  wet  mold,  and  set  on  ice  to  in- 
sure slicing  well.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  mint,  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  or  lemon  sliced.     (Mrs.  A.  R.  Gunder.) 

Lamb,  veal,  or  any  other  roasted  meat  may  be  used 
the  same  as  chicken. 

Vegetables  (made  in  the  form  of  soup). — 

1  cup  sliced  raw  carrot 
2/3  cup  sliced  raw  potato 
y2  cup  sliced  raw  onion 
1/2  cup  sliced  raw  cabbage 

1  large  spoon  Lima  beans  (left  over) 

1  large  spoon  green  peas  (left  over) 

2  ears  green  corn  (left  over) 
1  tablespoon  creamery  butter 

Put  the  carrots  and  cabbage  on  to  boil  in  one  and 
one-half  pints  of  water.  When  carrots  begin  to  be  tender, 
add  the  potato,  beans,  and  peas.  When  vegetables  are 
thoroughly  cooked  and  tender,  mash  and  press  through 
cullender. 

Boil  two  ears  of  corn  five  minutes.  When  cool,  run 
sharp  knife  the  length  of  each  row  of  kernels,  and  scrape 
with  back  of  knife,  leaving  the  husks  adhering  to  the  cob. 
Add  to  the  vegetables  already  prepared.  Reheat,  and 
bring  to  the  proper  consistency  by  adding  milk  or  cream 
and  a  little  butter.    Season  to  taste.    (A.  M.  Munson.) 

Vegetables  (made  in  the  form  of  salad). — Take  the 
cooked  cauliflower  and  break  apart  into  small  pieces. 
Serve  with  lettuce,  dressed  with  mayonnaise  or  salt,  lemon 
juice,  and  olive  oil.  Any  of  the  left-over  vegetables  may 
be  used  with  lettuce  for  a  salad,  dressed  as  above. 


Our  Cook  Book 


281 


MISCELLANEOUS 

Macaroni  with  Cream  Sauce. — Break  up  twelve  sticks 
of  macaroni,  put  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  salted  water,  and 
cook  until  tender.  Drain,  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce : 

SAUCE 

1  cup  cream  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  flour 

Blend  the  butter  and  flour.  Gradually  add  the  milk 
and  cream,  and  cook  until  thick.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Less  cream  and  more  milk  may  be  used,  if  not 
desired  so  rich. 

Macaroni  with  Cheese. — Cook  the  macaroni  as  above, 
and,  when  tender,  drain.  Grate  rather  dry  cheese  very 
fine.  Sprinkle  over  the  macaroni,  and  set  in  a  warm 
oven  to  melt  the  cheese.  Do  not  have  the  oven  hot 
enough  to  cause  cheese  to  be  stringy.  If  cheese  is  not 
desired,  simply  dress  with  cream  and  butter. 

Cottage  Cheese. — Allow  the  whole  milk  to  stand  un- 
til it  reaches  the  clabber  state,  and  then  with  an  egg- 
beater  incorporate  as  much  air  as  possible.  Do  not  let 
the  milk  stand  after  it  has  clabbered;  beat  it  without 
delay — this  will  prevent  its  becoming  bitter. 

Clabber. — Pour  fresh,  clean  milk  into  deep  cereal 
dishes,  and  cover.  Let  this  stand  in  a  warm  place,  undis- 
turbed, until  as  thick  as  baked  custard.  Then  chill  and 
serve.  In  the  winter  time,  figs  or  prunes  with  this  make 
an  excellent  breakfast.  A  little  sprinkle  of  salt  makes 
the  milk  taste  like  cottage  cheese. 


282 


Food 


MENUS 

SUMMER  MENUS 

Sunday — 

Breakfast:  Fresh  fruit  and  milk. 
Lunch:       Toasted  biscuits,  honey,  and  milk. 
Dinner:      Lamb  roast,   summer  squash,  Brussels 
sprouts,  Tilden  salad. 

Monday — 

Breakfast:  Flake  food  with  melted  butter,  and  milk. 
Lunch:       Prune-whip  and  fruit. 
Dinner:      Baked   potatoes,   Irish  or  sweet,  new 
string  beans  or  peas,  egg  salad. 

Tuesday — 

Breakfast:  Fresh  fruit  and  milk. 

Lunch:        Rice  pudding  (recipe,  page  271)  and 
milk. 

Dinner:      Steak,  corn  on  cob,  greens,  slaw  No.  2 
(recipe,  page  268). 

Wednesday — 

Breakfast:  Waffles,  honey,  and  teakettle  tea. 
Lunch:       Pineapple   salad    (recipe,    page  268), 

nuts,  and  teakettle  tea. 
Dinner:      Rice,  asparagus,  spinach,  Tilden  salad. 

Thursday — 

Breakfast:  Fresh  fruit,  cheese,  and  teakettle  tea. 
Lunch:       Zwieback,  butter,  milk. 
Dinner:      Soft-boiled  eggs,  bacon,  beets,  carrots, 
fruit  salad. 


Our  Cook  Book 


283 


Friday — 

Breakfast: 
Lunch : 
Dinner: 

Saturday — 

Breakfast: 
Lunch : 
Dinner : 


Pancakes,  honey,  teakettle  tea. 
Apple  pie,  cheese,  and  milk. 
Baked  beans,  corn  on  cob,  spinach,  Til- 
den  salad. 


Bananas. 

Ice-cream  and  cake. 
Impromptu  soup,  Tilden  salad. 

(Miss  Frieda  Gantz,  Denver,  Colo.) 


Sunday — 

Breakfast : 
Lunch : 

Dinner: 

Monday — 

Breakfast : 
Lunch : 

Dinner : 

Tuesday — 

Breakfast : 

Lunch : 
Dinner : 


WINTER  MENUS 

Oatmeal,  or  rice,  and  milk. 

Raisins,  dates,  or  figs,  and  clabber  or 

cottage  cheese. 
Roast  chicken,  carrots,  peas,  fruit  salad, 

olives,  prune-whip. 


Fresh  biscuit  and  honey,  with  milk. 
Apple  pie   (recipe,  page  270),  cream 

cheese,  milk. 
Baked  Hubbard  squash,  spinach,  string 

beans,  Tilden  salad. 


Toasted  biscuit  (left-over),  breakfast 
bacon,  and  teakettle  tea. 

Apples,  dates,  and  clabber. 

Chicken  loaf  (recipe,  page  280),  cauli- 
flower, stewed  tomatoes,  spinach  salad 
(recipe,  page  267). 


284  Food 

Wednesday — 

Breakfast:  Corn  bread  or  muffins,  honey,  teakettle 
tea. 

Lunch:  Date  pudding  (recipe,  page  271),  nuts, 
milk. 

Dinner:       Macaroni   (recipe,  page  281),  turnips, 
stewed  onions,  aspic  of  tomato  salad 
(recipe,  page  267). 

Thursday — 

Breakfast:  Puffed  wheat  or  rice,  or  any  flake  food, 
served  with  melted  butter,  milk. 

Lunch:        Vegetable  soup  (recipe,  page  262),  fruit. 

Dinner:  Steak  or  beef  roast,  beets,  parsnips,  slaw 
(recipe,  page  268). 

Friday — 

Breakfast:  Omelet  (recipe,  page  259),  bacon,  tea- 
kettle tea. 

Lunch:  Apple  jello  (recipe,  page  270),  nuts, 
and  fruit. 

Dinner:  Lima  beans,  carrots,  and  egg-plant;  Til- 
den  salad. 

Saturday — 

Breakfast:  Waffles  (recipe,  page  279)  and  honey. 
Lunch:       Tomato  soup   (recipe,  page  262)  and 
fruit. 

Dinner:  Pork  chops,  spinach,  peas,  Tilden  salad, 
jelly,  dessert  of  fruit. 

(Miss  F.  Gantz.) 


Our  Cook  Book 


285 


MISCELLANEOUS  MENUS 

HOLIDAY  DINNERS 
(Not  strictly  Tilden  dinners  and  not  to  be  repeated  often) 

Christmas  Day — 

Breakfast:  Fruit,  and  clabber  or  cottage  cheese. 
Lunch:       Tilden  salad,  fruit. 

Dinner:  Roast  turkey,  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes, 
giblet  gravy,  turnips,  carrots,  Tilden 
salad,  cranberry  sauce,  jellies  or  pre- 
serves, plum  pudding,  nuts,  and  can- 
dies. 

New  Year's  Day — 

Breakfast:  Fruit,  and  clabber  or  cottage  cheese. 

Lunch:       Fruit  or  salad,  and  milk. 

Dinner:  Roast  turkey,  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes, 
giblet  gravy,  parsnips,  peas,  Tilden 
salad,  grapefruit,  jelly,  mince  pie, 
raisins,  and  candies. 

Thanksgiving  Day — 

Breakfast:  Fruit  and  buttermilk. 
Lunch:       Salad  or  fruit. 

Dinner:  Roast  turkey,  duck,  or  chicken,  baked 
squash,  Tilden  salad,  cauliflower, 
string  beans,  cranberry  jelly,  ice- 
cream, and  raisins  or  candy. 


286 


Food 


A  STRICTLY  TILDEN  HOLIDAY  DINNER 
Bluepoints  on  the  half -shell,  served  with  celery  and 
olives. 

Turkey;  cranberry  jelly;  Tilden  salad;  turnips  and 
carrots,  or  any  two  other  cooked,  non-starchy  vegetables; 
jellies  or  preserved  fruit,  and  mince  pie  or  ice-cream. 

A  LUNCHEON 
Cream-of-corn  soup;  cold  roast  lamb,  mint  sauce; 
Tilden  salad;  cheese;  olives;  frozen  dessert,  sweet  fruits, 
or  candy. 

PICNIC  LUNCHES 

No.  1.  Cold  chicken;  Tilden  salad;  olives  or  pickles; 
fresh,  uncooked  fruit;  lemonade. 

No.  2.  Egg  or  nut  sandwiches;  Tilden  salad;  fresh, 
uncooked  fruit. 

No.  3.  Lettuce  sandwiches;  hard-boiled  eggs;  celery; 
fresh,  uncooked  fruit 

EGG  SANDWICHES 
Grind  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  add  butter,  salt,  and 
olive  oil.  Split  cold  baking-powder  biscuits,  butter,  and 
place  lettuce  leaves  on  each  half.  Spread  with  egg  mix- 
ture, and  close.  Lettuce  may  be  cut  up  with  the  egg,  if 
desired. 

NUT  SANDWICHES 
Grind  English  walnuts  or  pecans,  and  olives,  fine. 
Add  lettuce,  if  desired.    Mix  well  with  a  small  amount 
of  mayonnaise  dressing.    Use  as  Riling  for  sandwiches. 

TILDEN  SALAD  FOR  PICNICS 
Cut  up  lettuce,  tomatoes,  and  cucumbers,  after  they 
have  been  made  crisp  by  standing  in  cold  water  for  an 
hour  or  so.  Pack  in  jar,  and,  when  ready  to  serve,  dress 
with  mayonnaise  dressing,  or  salt  and  olive  oil.  (Miss 
F.  Gantz.) 


INDEX 


INDEX 


FOOD  BOOK 


A 

Page 

Absorption    80,  87 

stomach    87 

intestinal    88 

Acid,  amido,  importance  of   106 

Acid  foods,  potentially  183,  185,  198 

Acid  stomach    159 

Acidosis   183,  185,  198,  230 

Adenoids    14,  174 

Air — 

a  food    21 

putrefaction  in  mountain   22 

fresh-air  insanity    26 

Albumin    73 

its  poisonous  influence    75 

in  eggs   112,  114 

in  pork    142 

Alcohol   6,9,16,36,217,241 

Alkaline  foods,  potentially   183,186,188,198 

Almond    202 

Altitude,  its  effect  on  health   23 

Amido  acid,  importance  of   106 

Anemia    24 

Animal  foods    89 

Animal  viscera    161 

Animals,  influence  of  stall-feeding  on   121 

Appendicitis    19,  224 

Arteries,  hardening  of    54,  106 

Artichokes    191 

Artificially  prepared  foods — 

different  from  natural  food   105 

Autotoxemia   6,  98,  126,  128,  135,  183,  185,  231 


290 


Index 


B 


Page 

Bacon    151 

Baking-powder  bread  .'   182 

Baths,  hot   238 

Beans — 

and  pork   142 

and  peas    187 

preparation  of   188 

Beef    136 

its  composition    136 

combinations  with   130 

Beets    192 

Beverages  and  stimulants    233 

water    233 

tea   239 

coffee    239 

cocoa  and  chocolate    240 

alcohol    241 

Bile    85,  86 

glycogen  of    86 

Biscuit  bread    180 

Body-building   106,  181 

salts  necessary  for   106 

material  from  milk  and  bread   107 

Brains  (calves')    161 

Brazil  nut    204 

Bread   100,  169,  215 

eaten  with  meat   83 

staff  of  life    175 

combinations  with    176 

biscuit    180 

overeating  on    181 

baking-powder    182 

Breakfast   173,  180 

cereals   172,  180 

combinations  with  cereals   173,  181 

Broilers    158 

Butter    229 

Buttermilk    102 

overeating  on    98 

how  to  prepare    103 

combinations  with    103 


Index  291 
c 

Page 

Cake   131,  185,  186 

Calories — 

in  cow's  milk    97,  101 

required   97,  208,  226 

in  sugar    208 

Cancer    211 

Canned  meats    157 

Carbohydrates   77,  206,  212 

absorption  of    88 

build  rheumatism    122 

in  vegetables    170 

furnish  heat    31,  209 

Carrots    192 

Catalysis    175 

Catarrh   97,  101,  103,  174,  193,  198,  201,  233,  240 

Cause — 

of  disease    38,  59,  135,  213,  217 

of  disease  in  children   99,  100,  108 

and  effect    8,  13 

Cereals    171 

composition  of    172 

breakfast    172 

bread    173 

flour    177 

combinations  with  breakfast   173,  181 

Changes  common  to  milk    93 

Cheese — 

composition  of    108 

combinations  with    109 

cottage    110 

constipating    108 

should  be  well  masticated    110 

Chemical  elements  in  body    69 

Chestnuts    203 

Chicken,  spring    158 

Children — 

proper  food  for  development  of  107,  181 

cause  of  disease  in   99,  100,  108 

diet  for  nervous   '   47 

Chocolate   208,  224,  240 

Cholera  infantum    34 

Chorea    47 


292  Index 

Page 

Cider  vinegar    228 

Classes  of  foods    89 

Classification  of  foods  ..."   20 

Clothing   27 

in  warm  weather   33 

in  cold  weather    37 

Cocaine    16 

Cocoa    240 

Cocoanut    204 

Coffee    6,  239 

Cold,  its  effect  on  health    35 

Cold-storage  poultry   155 

Colitis    84 

influence  of  milk  on    104 

Combinations  with — 

milk    97 

buttermilk    103 

cheese    109 

eggs    118 

meat    130 

pork    145 

lamb    153 

breakfast  cereals    173 

oysters    165 

fish    1C3 

bread   176,  181 

legumes    190 

root  vegetables    192 

fruit    201 

nuts    204 

Composition  of — 

milk    90 

buttermilk   102 

cheese    108 

eggs    Ill 

beef    136 

pork    138 

pork  sausage    149 

veal    152 

mutton    152 

lamb    153 

poultry    154 

animal  viscera    161 

fish    164 


Index 


293 


Page 

Composition  of — (Continued)  — 

mollusks,  crustaceans,  etc   165 

cereals    172 

flour    177 

legumes    187 

roots  and  tubers   190 

green  vegetables    193 

fruit    189 

nuts    202 

Condiments    227 

Constipation   CI,  78,  84,  98,  106,  110,  238 

mineral  waters  for    237 

enemas  for    237 

Consumption  of  meat    132 

Contagious  diseases    194 

Contentment  health-producing    14 

Cooking — 

bad    64 

common  style  of   148 

beans    188 

vegetables   192,  196 

Corn  meal    180 

Cottage  cheese    110 

Cow,  care  of    91 

Curd  and  whey    104 

Cures,  water    238 

Custard    131 

D 

Dates    227 

Depressant,  alcohol  a    241 

Desserts    131 

Diabetes   86,  202,  206,  214,  219 

Diarrhea    233 

Diet— 

for  school  children  107,  181 

for  sedentary  people   143 

during  warm  weather   33 

during  cold  weather  37,  141,  169,  230 

Digestion    68,  80 

salivary    81 

gastric    81 

intestinal    84 


294  Index 

Page 

Digestion — (Continued) — 

of  milk    102 

of  eggs    115 

Diphtheria   .'   194 

Disaccharids   215 

Disease — 

is  health  laboring  under  a  handicap   11,  12 

cause  of,  in  children  99,  100,  108 

built  by  holidays   125 

built  by  too  much  meat  126,  129 

causes  of   38,  59,  135,  213,  217 

what  is  it?   138 

not  a  specific  entity   8 

treated  satisfactorily  by  diet   5 

electricity  a  cure  for   50 

Drinking  with  meals   234 

Drugs,  habit-forming   7,  10,  12,  18 

Ducks    160 

E 

Eating,  its  object   16 

during  warm  weather   33 

during  cold  weather  37,  141,  169,  230 

meat    165 

Eczema    163 

Effects  of  meat-eating   132 

Efficiency  handicapped  by  wrong  life   18 

Eggs    110 

composition  of    Ill 

a  complete  food   Ill 

preserving    Ill 

bad  for  ulceration  and  dilation  of  stomach   115 

digestibility  of    115 

raw    116 

combinations  with    118 

cooking  of    117 

albumin  in   112,  114 

how  to  test   115 

Electricity,  its  connection  with  life   48 

a  cure  for  disease   50 

Elements,  chemical,  in  body   69 

Elimination   135,  136,  138,  169 

Enemas    237 


Index 


295 


Page 

Enervation   11,  15,  30,  35,  52,  59,  185,  195,  198,  228 

sugar  causes    213 

cause  of  disease   62 

Enzymes    80 

of  salivary  digestion   81 

of  gastric  juice   82 

of  pancreatic  juice   84 

Erythemia   41 

Excess,  avoiding,  brings  health   6 

Exclusive  diet  of  meat   120 

Extractives   77 

F 

Fanaticism    159 

Fats    78,  228 

effect  on  cooking   143 

heat-producing    78 

in  milk    91 

of  fish  not  easy  to  digest   164 

of  vegetables    170 

Feces    88 

Fermentation   166,  174,  179,  182,  189,  210,  224,  225 

Fever   32,  37,  215 

Figs    227 

Filth,  no  excuse  for   227 

Fish    162 

composition  of   164 

combinations  with    163 

Flour,   composition  of   177 

Food,  values    17 

its  influence  in  health  and  disease   5 

classes  of    89 

classification  of   20 

animal   89 

in  its  relationship  to  the  body   68 

nutritive  ingredients  of  and  use  of   79 

artificially  prepared    105 

a  stimulant    127 

devitalized    141 

decidedly  starchy   ,   171 

vegetable    170 

poisoning   120,  126,  218 

refined   219 


296  Index 

Page 

Food— (Continued) — 

unknown  elements  of   221 

object  of    16 

inebriety    196 

Foundation  of  health   14 

Fruit   188,  198 

composition  of    199 

combinations  with    201 

sweet,  better  than  sugar   227 

Fungi    204 

G 

Gall-stones    18,  122 

Game    160 

Gastric  digestion    81 

Geese    160 

Gelatinoids    77 

Germs   40,  57,  134 

Gliadin    177 

Glucose    212 

Glycogen    86,  206 

Gout    166 

Gravy,  flour   65 

Green  vegetables    192 

H 

Habits,  shorten  life  6,  15,  16,  46 

Hardening  of  the  arteries  106,  181 

Headache   128,  158 

Head-cheese    151 

Health,  foundation  of   14 

Heart  (sheep)    161 

Heat,  its  effect  on  health   29 

pork  a  producer  of   141 

sugar  a  producer  of   209 

-producing  foods    31 

when  consumed    31 

Holidays  are  disease-builders   125 

Horseradish    228 

Houses  must  be  clean   28 

Human  milk  compared  with  cow's   92 


Index  297 

Page 

Hygiene  of  the  mind   17 

Hyperacidity    81 

treatment  for    82 

Hyperchlorhydria    81 

I 

Ice-cream,  poisoning    94 

evolves  heat   33 

Immunization    19 

Insomnia    23 

Inspection  of  milk   91 

Intestinal — 

digestion    84 

secretion    85 

Irish  potato    191 

Irritation  of  the  stomach   158 

J 

Jellies  and  jams — 

added  to  bread  cause  disease   100 

cause  overeating  100,  174,  217 

Juices — 

gastric    81,  84 

intestinal    83,  84 

pancreatic    80,  84 

K 

Keep  surface  of  body  clean   27 

feet  warm  during  sickness   33,  34 

Kidneys — 

eliminate  nitrogenous  matter   86 

carry  glucose  out  of  body   214 

Knowledge  of  diet  necessary   17 

of  when  and  when  not  to  eat  necessary   17 

of  fundamentals  necessary   20 

Kraut  and  pork   151 

L 

Lamb — 

composition  of    153 

combinations  with    153 


298  Index 

Page 

Lard    145 

Leavening  agents    177 

Legumes    186 

composition  of   I87 

beans  and  peas   187 

combinations  with    190 

Lentils    189 

Light,  its  effect  on  health   40 

Liver    85 

formation  of  urea  in   87 

Liver   (sheep's)    161 

Lloyd,  Uri,  on  albumin   73 

M 

Meat    119 

eaten  with  starch  83,  146,  159,  163,  167 

exclusive  diet  of   120 

how  often  to  eat   119 

too  much  causes  overstimulation   126 

a  stimulant    128 

and  wheat    130 

combinations  with    130 

effects  of  eating  132,  165 

infection  from    133 

parasites  in    133 

canned    157 

white  and  dark  161,  167 

proteid  in    71 

fermentation  of    224 

beef    136 

pork   138 

pork  sausage    149 

veal    152 

mutton    152 

lamb    153 

poultry    154 

game    160 

animal  viscera    161 

venison    161 

fish    162 

oysters    165 

Meat  preparations    137 

predigested   137 

have  little  value   138 


Index  299 

Pag© 

Medical  superstition    8 

Metabolism    55 

Micro-organisms    165 

Milk    89,  176 

composition  of    90 

fat  in   91 

proteids  in    90,  99 

inspection  of    91 

proper  way  to  feed   92 

difference  between  human  and  cow's   93 

changes  common  to   93 

natural  food  for  growing  children   100 

digestion  of    102 

boiling  increases  digestibility  of   102 

combinations  with    97 

its  influence  on  colitis  and  mucus  discharges   104 

specific  gravity  of   93 

preservatives  in   94 

an  economical  food   94 

malted    105 

Mineral  elements   52,  99,  113,  121,  175,  199,  209,  213,  215,  230 

waters   233,  237 

Molasses    210 

Mollusks    165 

Monosaccharids    212 

Mountain  sickness    24 

Mushrooms    204 

Mustard    228 

Mutton    152 

N 

Nature  protects    9 

needs  but  little  assistance   135 

Nerve  energy — 

must  be  conserved  for  digestion  of  food  13,  14,  15 

used-up   resisting  cold   27 

Nerves — 

overstimulation  of.  from  meat-eating   126 

from  noise    43 

from  sugar-eating    214 

exhausting  habits  affect   30 

Nervous  system  presides  over  organic  functioning   30 

Nettle  rash   163 


300  Index 

Page 

Nutritive  ingredients  of  food   79 

Nuts   169,  201 

composition  of   •   202 

combinations  with    204 

O 

Obesity    77,  201 

Objections  to  meat-eating   165 

Oil    228 

olive    229 

Opium  .'.  8 

Overeating — 

on  buttermilk    98 

a  tax  on  body   119 

sweets  cause   100,  174,  216 

Overstimulation   11,  12,  18,  228 

Oxygen   21,24,30,55 

starvation    25 

Oysters,  composition  of   165 

P 

Pancreatic  juice    84 

Parasites  in  meat    133 

Parsnips    192 

Peanuts    189 

Pecan  nut    203 

Pellagra    41 

Peppers    228 

Pie    131 

Pigeons    160 

Pig's  feet    151 

Pneumonia    97,  174 

Poise    14,  61 

Pork   138,  167 

composition  of    138 

a  heat-producer   139,  141 

and  beans   142,  148 

combinations  with    145 

pickled    151 

and  kraut    151 

sausage   149 

composition  of    149 


Index  301 

Page 

Pork— (Continued)— 

sausage — (continued) — 

dried  and  smoked    150 

combinations  with    150 

pig's  feet   151 

head-cheese    151 

Potato,  Irish  and  sweet    191 

Potentially  acid  foods   183,  198 

alkaline  foods   183,  186,  188,  198 

Poultry- 
composition  of    154 

ptomaine  poisoning  from    154 

cold-storage    155 

Preserving  eggs    Ill 

Proteid    63 

its  use  in  body    70,  209 

amount  required   71,  95,  124 

an  oversupply  of    72 

absorption  of   88 

in  milk    90,  101 

of  malted  milk    105 

in  meat    119 

in  vegetables    170 

in  beans  and  peas    187 

in  nuts    202 

Ptomaine  poisoning   154,  165 

Pudding    131 

Purin  bodies  123,  128 

Q 

Quantity  of  proteid  required   71,  95,  124 

Quiet  necessary  for  nervous  people    47 

R 

Radishes    192 

Raisins    227 

Raw  foods — 

eggs    116 

meat    133 

vegetables   181,  194,  196 

fruits   200 

Refined  foods    218 


302  Index 

Pag:* 

Resistance,  lowered    11, 1J 

Rest    39,  61 

Rheumatism — 

its  cause  122,  166,  169,  174 

inflammatory    123 

Roots  and  tubers    190 

combinations  with    192 

composition  of    190 

S 

Salads   145,  153,  163,  183,  197 

Salivary  digestion    81 

Salts   69,  199,  230 

necessary  to  body-building-    105 

cooking  deprives  food  of    148 

table    232 

Sausage — 

pork    149 

dried  and  smoked    150 

Scarlet  fever    194 

School  children,  proper  food  for    107 

Scorbutus   167,  182,  188,  200,  231 

Scrofula   167,  182,  188,  200,  231 

Scurvey   167,  182,  188,  200,  231 

Secretions — 

intestinal    85 

digestive    135 

Sedentary  people,  diet  for    143 

Self-control    10 

Self-protection    7 

Serums    76,  178 

Seymour,  Miss,  on  cold-storage  poultry    155 

Skepticism    5 

Sound,  its  effect  on  health    43 

Sour  milk  and  soda  biscuits    180 

Spices  and  condiments   227 

Spring  chickens    158 

Starch    172 

and  sugar    211 

and  meat   83,  146,  159,  K,3,  167 

and  sugar  fermentation   224 

combinations  with   173,  176 


Index  303 

Page 

Stimulant — 

food  a    127 

meat  a    128 

Stimulants  and  beverages   233 

Stomach — 

irritation  of   158,  224 

ulceration  and  dilation  of   115 

acid    159 

catarrh  of   210 

sickness  of    24 

Sugar    206 

in  vegetables  and  fruit    207 

a  heat-producer   209,  226 

and  starch    211 

enervates  digestive  organs  211,  213 

causes  overeating    216 

a  deceptive  food  ,  ,   218 

and  starch  fermentation   224 

Sunstroke — 

cause  of   34 

result  of   35 

Sweetbreads    161 

Sweet  potato   191 

Sweets  induce  overeating   ,  100,  174,  217 

Syphilis   168 

Syrup    210 

T 

Taylor,  on  protein  requirement    96 

Tea    6,  239 

Teakettle  tea   240 

Thirst  following  a  meal   t...  158 

Tobacco    6,  16 

Tongue  (ox),  fresh   161 

Tonsils,  enlarged  14,159,174 

Tripe  .,   161 

Tuberculosis    168 

in  high  and  dry  altitudes   25 

cause  and  method  of  treating   124,  125 

Turnips    192 

Typhoid  fever    194 


304 


Index 


Page 

U 

Urea,  formation  of   87,  89 

Uric  acid   166 

V 

Vaccines   19,  76,  168,  178 

Veal    152 

Vegetable  foods    170 

carbohydrates  of     170 

proteins  in    170 

fats  in   170 

classification  of    171 

cereals    171 

legumes    186 

roots  and  tubers   190 

green  vegetables    192 

fruits    198 

nuts    201 

fungi    204 

Vegetables — 

green    192 

non-starchy    171 

composition  of   193 

fermentation  of    224 

Venison    161 

Vinegar    228 

W 

Walnuts    203 

Water    69,  233 

absorption  of   88 

mineral   233,  237 

temperature  of,  for  drinking   234 

rain  and  distilled   236 

cures    238 

Wheat — 

and  meat    130 

flour    180 

Whey   104 


Index  305 

Page 

Work- 
antidote  for  food-poisoning   120 

with  least  expenditure  of  nerve  energy  necessary  for  health.  17 

Worry  habit  leads  to  disease   62 

X,  Y,  Z 


Yam 


Yeast 


191 


175,  177 


306 


Index 


COOK  BOOK 


Page 

Introduction    245 

Bread    276 

Cakes    273 

Cereals  and  breakfast  dishes   279 

Eggs    258 

Fish   254 

Fowl    260 

Frozen  desserts    272 

Left-overs    280 

Meat — 

beef    247 

lamb   252 

mutton    252 

pork    251 

veal    252 

Menus — 

summer    282 

winter   283 

miscellaneous    285 

picnic  lunches    286 

Miscellaneous    281 

Oysters    256 

Tuddings  and  desserts   270 

Salads   267 

Salad  dressings    269 

Soup    262 

Vegetables    264 


JUL  2  ?  $ 

is  

1  WW  t — A — wvwi — 

W  AW 

DFC09 

$W  

JAN  2' 

DEMC  O  38-297 

