641.5 
D216f 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Arciiive 

in  2011  witii  funding  from 

LYRASIS  members  and  Sloan  Foundation 


http://www.archive.org/details/foodfamilyfriendOOdard 


A  Collection  of  Favorite  Memories 
and  Memorable  Favorites 


Compiled  and  Written  by 
Mary  Moss  Darden  and  Margaret  Taylor  Proffitt 


VIRGINIA  8EACH  LIBRARY  SYSTEM 
.4100  Virginia  Bejcli  IW,  Vif|1n(a  Beach.  V«  2J452. 

Cover  and  Illustrations  by 
Jennifer  Taylor  Proffitt 

Additional  Artwork  by 

Stewart  Darden  Mauldin 

and  Michelle  Taylor  Wilson 


76r-, 


Copyright  1996 

First  Printing  November  1996 

Second  Printing  February  1997 

Third  Printing  July  1997 

Fourth  Printing  {Hardcover  Edition)  November  1997 

Fifth  Printing  February  1998 

Sixth  Printing  June  1998 


VIRGINIA  BEACH  PUBLIC  LIBRARY  SYSTEM  -  OUP 


AlflE30      m3E13 


International  Standard  Book  Number  0-9654643-1-8 


Printed  by 

G&R 

Publishing  Co. 

507  Industrial  Street 

Waverly,  lA  50677 


DEDICATION 

When  my  mother's  recipe  collection,  which  included  my  grandmother's 
recipes,  came  into  my  possession,  I  was  concerned  that  the  recipes 
would  be  packed  away  and  forgotten.  It  was  important  to  me  that  the  recipes 
and  memories  be  preserved.  Family  mealtimes  at  our  house  were  relaxed  and 
pleasant  times  —  usually  around  the  dining  room  table  or  on  the  screened 
porch  overlooking  the  Pamlico  River  when  the  weather  was  warm.  Mother 
liked  to  entertain  and  was  a  gracious  hostess.  I  am  dedicating  this  book  to  my 
mother,  Mary  S.  Moss,  in  loving  memory  for  all  that  she  taught  me,  both  in  the 
kitchen  and  out. 

A  special  thanks  also  to  my  co-author  and  dear  friend,  Margaret,  without 
whom  this  book  would  not  have  become  a  reality. 

Mary  Moss  Darden 


T 


his  book  is  tangible  evidence  of  the  remarkable  spirit  and  energy  of 
family  and  friends,  past  and  present.  It  is  dedicated  to  them. 


Having  Mary  as  a  close  friend  is  a  privilege  that  I  treasure   Because  of  her, 
working  on  this  book  has  been  a  joy  and  delight. 

Margaret  Taylor  Proffitt 


lU 


APPRECIATION 

The  encouragement  supplied  to  us  by  our  families  —  especially  by  our 
husbands  —  and  our  friends  has  been  of  prime  importance  to  us  in  the 
completion  of  this  book.  We  appreciate  their  confidence  in  us. 

The  illustrations  depict  locations  that  hold  special  memories;  the  cover  arrange- 
ment includes  an  old  family  china  pattern  from  which  the  floral  design  within 
the  book  is  taken.  For  keeping  our  family  sentiments  in  mind  as  they  produced 
the  art  work,  we  thank  Jennifer  Taylor  Proffitt,  Michelle  Taylor,  and  Stewart 
Darden  Mauldin  —  family  members  all. 

We  also  thank  Pam  Feese,  who  took  us  places  in  our  computer  we  would  have 
never  dared  to  go  on  our  own;  our  good  friend,  Sharon  Haring,  who  cheerfully 
proofread  copy;  and  Sue  Buchannan,  a  veteran  cookbook  editor,  who  gave  us 
the  courage  to  begin. 

Our  sincere  appreciation  also  goes  to  other  family  members  and  friends,  both 
past  and  present,  who  so  readily  shared  recipes  and,  in  their  own  ways,  gave 
help  and  encouragement  all  along  the  way. 


Special  thanks 

to  the  staff 

at 

G  &  R  Publishers 


IV 


INTRODUCTION 

Friendship  brought  about  the  beginning  of  this  cookbook,  and  friendship 
saw  it  through.  The  two  of  us  have  been  friends  for  many  years  and  have 
at  times  been  mistaken  for  sisters.  Indeed,  during  the  years  that  we  taught  in 
the  same  school,  one  as  librarian  and  one  as  music  specialist,  students  regularly 
mistook  one  of  us  for  the  other.  Though  we  are  not  related,  we  have  always 
had  similar  thoughts  and  feelings  about  many  things. 

Through  the  years,  we  often  spoke  of  our  families  and  their  roots  in  North 
Carolina  and  Virginia.  The  fond  memories  we  shared  of  foods,  families,  and 
friendships  created  a  logical  progression  to  talk  of  recipes  and  cookbooks.  We 
hope  the  sentiments  that  brought  us  to  completing  this  cookbook  will  provide 
you  with  many  hours  of  pleasure  and  that  its  recollections  will  arouse  your 
own  memories  of  times  and  people  special  in  your  own  lives.  We  hope  you 
will  feel  the  warmth  we  have  felt  while  lovingly  creating  this  book. 

Most  of  the  recipes  have  been  prepared  and  tasted  by  one  or  both 
of  us.  Some  have  come  to  us  highly  recommended  by  family 
members  and  friends,  and  we  feel  confident  in  offering  those  to 
you.  The  recipes  following  the  granny  faces  are  quite  old,  and 
some  are  included  only  because  we  are  charmed  by  their  wording  and  find 
them  to  be  quite  entertaining.  Some  of  the  "grannies"  are  so  highly  loaded 
with  fat  that  no  health-conscious  cook  would  prepare  them.  On  the  other 
hand,  some  recipes  noted  by  the  granny  face  are  quite  healthful  and  can  readily 
be  followed  without  guilt.  Those  judgments  are  left  to  you. 

We  have  tried  to  be  somewhat  consistent  in  the  names  and  spellings  of  the 
ingredients  but  have  chosen  to  leave  many  recipes  worded  exactly  as  we 
received  them.  By  presenting  them  this  way,  we  think  they  retain  more  of  the 
personalities  of  the  wonderful  cooks  who  shared  them  with  us.  We  hope  you 
agree. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Breads 1-16 

Entertaining  ABC's 19  -  32 

Appetizers 19 

Beverages 26 

Conversation  Snacks 29 

Main  Dishes 35  -  68 

Beef 35 

Pork 42 

Poultry 48 

Seafood 55 

For  the  Grill 65 

Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 71  -  80 

Salads  83  - 104 

Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 107  - 118 

Sweets 121  -  204 

Cakes  and  Icings 121 

Candies  and  Cookies 147 

Desserts 161 

Pies 181 

Sweet  Syrups  and  Sauces 202 

Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 207  -  225 

Contributors 226 

Index    227  -  244 


VI 


Old  Princess  Anne  County  Court  House 

Records  of  my  ancestors  dating  back  to  the  1600's  can  be  found 
in  the  court  house.  I  feel  my  roots  are  firmly  planted  here. 

—  M.P. 


BREADS 


Sourdough  Bread 


Starter: 

1  3/4    cups  unsifted,  strong 
bread-type  flour 
1    package  active  dry  yeast 


2  1/2 


Tablespoon  sugar 
Tablespoon  salt 
cups  warm  water 


Combine  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  yeast  in  large  bowl.  Gradually  add  warm  water; 
beat  2  minutes  on  medium  speed  of  mixer.  Cover;  let  stand  at  room  tempera- 
ture (approximately  80  degrees)  for  4  days.  Stir  down  daily. 


Bread: 

5  to  6 

1 

2 


cups  unsifted,  strong  bread-type  3 

flour,  divided  1 

package  active  dry  yeast  1 

Tablespoons  margarine                1  1/2 


Tablespoons  sugar 
teaspoon  salt 
cup  milk 
cups  starter 


Combine  1  cup  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  yeast  in  large  bowl.  Place  milk  and 
margarine  in  saucepan  over  low  heat  until  liquid  is  warm.  Margarine  does  not 
need  to  melt    Gradually  add  to  dry  ingredients  and  beat  2  minutes  at  medium 
speed.  Add  starter  and  1  cup  flour,  or  enough  to  make  thick  batter.  Beat  at 
high  speed  2  minutes;  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough    Turn  onto 
lightly  floured  board,  and  knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Place  in  greased 
bowl,  turning  to  grease  top    Cover,  let  rise  in  warm  place  about  1  hour. 
Punch  dough  down,  turn  out  onto  lightly  floured  board.  Cover,  and  let  rest  1 5 
minutes.  Divide  dough  in  half;  shape  into  2  loaves,  and  place  in  loaf  pans. 
Cover,  let  rise  in  warm  place  about  1  hour.  Bake  in  400  degree  oven  30 
minutes  or  until  done.  Remove  pans  and  cool  on  racks.  Makes  2  loaves. 


Breads 


To  replenish  starter: 

Add  1  1/2  cups  strong  bread-type  flour  and  1  cup  warm  water  to  leftover 
starter.  Beat  until  smooth  Cover,  and  let  sit  in  warm  place  for  12  hours. 
Store  in  refiigerator  until  needed. 


Onion  Sourdough  Bread 


1/2 

cups  sourdough  starter 

3 

cups  unsifted  bread  flour. 

3 

Tablespoons  sugar 

divided 

1/2 

teaspoons  salt 

1 

package  active  dry  yeast 

1 

cup  milk 

2 

Tablespoons  margarine 

cornmeal 

1 

egg  white 

1 

Tablespoon  water 
caraway  seeds 

2/3 

cup  finely  chopped  onion 

Combine  1  cup  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  undissolved  yeast  in  a  large  bowl.    In  a 
saucepan,  combine  milk  and  margarine  over  low  heat  until  liquid  is  very  warm 
(120  to  130  degrees)    Margarine  does  not  need  to  meh.  Gradually  add  to  dry 
ingredients,  and  beat  2  minutes  at  medium  speed  of  mixer   Add  1  1/2  cups 
starter  and  1/4  cup  flour.  Beat  at  high  speed  for  2  minutes.  Stir  in  enough 
additional  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Turn  out  onto  lightly  floured  board, 
knead  until  smooth  and  elastic,  8  to  10  minutes.  Place  in  greased  bowl,  turning 
to  grease  top.  Cover,  let  rise  until  doubled  in  bulk,  about  1  hour.  Punch 
dough  down,  turn  out  onto  lightly  floured  board.  Divide  in  half  Cover,  let 
rest  1 5  minutes.  Divide  dough  into  quarters,  form  into  round  balls,  and  flatten 
slightly.  Place  on  greased  baking  sheets  that  have  been  sprinkled  with  corn- 
meal    Cover;  let  rise  until  doubled.  Combine  egg  white  and  water;  brush  over 
loaves,  and  top  with  chopped  onion  and  caraway  seeds.  Bake  at  400  degrees 
about  25  minutes  or  until  done.  Cool  on  wire  racks. 


Breads 


Classic  White  Bread 


Although  my  husband,  Don,  most  enjoys  working  with  sourdough  bread,  he  is 
not  afraid  to  experiment  with  bread  recipes  of  all  kinds,  old  and  new   He 
carries  on  a  long-established  family  tradition:  his  mother  baked  excellent  bread 
and  rolls  as  does  his  sister,  Janie.  She  and  Don  often  share  recipes  and  helpful 
hints.  Our  youngest  son  has  developed  bread-making  skills  of  his  own,  so  it 
seems  the  family  tradition  will  continue  uninterrupted    MP. 

1  1/2    packages  active  dry  yeast  5  to  6    cups  flour  (plain),  sifted 

2  1/4    cups  milk  3    Tablespoons  sugar 

2    Tablespoons  shortening  2    teaspoons  salt 

Combine  yeast  and  2  1/2  cups  flour.  In  a  saucepan,  heat  milk,  shortening,  salt 
and  sugar  until  warm,  stirring  occasionally  to  melt  shortening    Add  warm 
liquid  mixture  to  dry  mixture  in  mixing  bowl.  Beat  at  low  speed  1/2  minute, 
scraping  sides  of  bowl.  Beat  3  minutes  at  high  speed.  By  hand,  stir  in  enough 
of  remaining  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  dough  Turn  out  onto  a  lightly 
floured  surface.  Knead  until  smooth  and  satiny,  about  8  to  10  minutes    Shape 
into  a  ball.  Place  in  lightly  greased  bowl,  turning  once  to  grease  surface 
Cover  bowl,  and  let  dough  rise  in  warm  place  until  double  in  size,  about  1  1/4 
hours.  Punch  down,  then  cut  dough  into  2  portions    Shape  each  portion  into  a 
smooth  ball.  Cover,  and  let  rest  for  10  minutes    Shape  into  loaves,  place  into 
2  greased  9x5x3-inch  loaf  pans.  Cover,  and  let  rise  until  double,  about  45  to 
60  minutes.  To  determine  if  bread  is  ready  to  bake,  lightly  press  fingertips  into 
raised  dough    If  indentation  remains,  dough  is  ready.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for 
35  minutes.  Cover  with  aluminum  foil  if  top  browns  too  quickly.  To  deter- 
mine if  baked  bread  is  done,  lightly  tap  bread  —  will  sound  hollow  if  done 


Breads 

Salt-Rising  Bread 

Salt-rising  bread  is  not  easy  to  make    Some  say  the  success  of  the  bread 
depends  on  how  strong  the  aroma  of  the  starter  is  —  the  worse  the  smell,  the 
better  the  bread.  In  our  house,  there  have  been  some  successes  and  some 
failures,  but  the  unique  flavor  of  this  bread  makes  it  worth  the  effort    I  have 
seen  several  different  recipes  for  salt-rising  bread,  this  one  was  used  by  my 
husband's  grandmother.  Like  many  cooks  of  her  day,  she  did  not  give  very 
detailed  cooking  directions    M.P. 

Starter: 

4    Tablespoons  com  meal  pinch  soda 

1  to  2    teaspoons  sugar  1/2    cup  milk,  or  a  little  more 

Mix  dry  ingredients.  Heat  milk  to  scalding;  pour  over  cornmeal  mixture.  Put 
in  warm  place,  let  sit  overnight.  If  it  smells  awful  in  the  morning,  continue 
with  the  recipe.  If  there  is  no  odor,  pour  the  mixture  out  and  start  again. 

Bread: 

starter  1     pint  milk 

flour  1     teaspoon  salt 

1    Tablespoon  sugar 

Scald  milk.  Let  cool  somewhat    While  the  milk  is  still  good  and  warm,  drop 
the  starter  into  it.  Sift  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  batter,  and  place  bowl  in  a 
pot  of  warm  water   When  batter  rises,  mix  salt  and  sugar  with  enough  flour  to 
make  a  dough  that  will  knead  well.  Put  in  loaf  pan,  and  bake  for  1  hour  20 
minutes  in  a  350  degree  oven. 

Augusta  Jane  Hogan,  Lynch  Station,  Virginia 


Breads 


Janie's  Hot  Rolls 


Here  they  are!  Rolls  from  one  of  the  world's  best  cooks    I  don't  promise  that 
yours  will  be  as  good  as  hers,  because  even  though  you  will  be  using  her 
recipe,  I  must  tell  you  that  she  truly  has  a  special  touch.  Nonetheless,  I'll  bet 
her  touch  rubs  off  on  you.  M.  P. 

1  Tablespoon  salt  1  Tablespoon  sugar 

1/2  cup  Crisco  oil  3  cups  hot  water 

1  Tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  envelope  active  dry  yeast  flour,  sifted 

In  a  large  bowl,  combine  sah,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  oil,  and  hot  water   Set  aside. 
In  a  small  saucepan,  combine  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  milk,  heat  until  good  and 
lukewarm.  Remove  from  heat,  sprinkle  yeast  on  top,  and  set  aside.  Add 
enough  flour  to  the  water  mixture  to  absorb  all  of  the  moisture.  Add  yeast 
mixture  to  large  bowl,  and  again  add  enough  flour  to  absorb  the  moisture.  The 
dough  should  be  sticky  but  still  dry  enough  to  handle.  Turn  out  onto  a  floured 
board,  and  knead    Grease  bowl.  Return  dough  to  greased  bowl,  cover  and  let 
rise  until  it  has  doubled  in  bulk    Fold  dough  from  outside  in;  cover,  and  let 
double  in  bulk  again.  Form  into  loaves  and/or  rolls.  This  amount  of  dough 
will  make  2  loaves  and  1/2  dozen  or  more  rolls.  Bake  in  425  degree  oven  for 
20  to  25  minutes  or  until  golden  brown.  Take  up  some  butter  or  margarine  on 
a  paper  towel  and  rub  onto  the  tops  of  the  loaves  and  rolls 

Jcmie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Delmonico  Rolls 

Warm  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  milk;  put  to  it  a  spoonfiil  and  a  half  of 
yeast  of  small  beer  and  a  little  sah,  put  two  pounds  of  flour  in  a  pan  and  mix 
with  the  above;  let  it  rise  an  hour   Knead  well  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


heads 

Strawberry  Bread 

My  brother,  Harry,  and  his  wife,  Jean,  often  host  a  huge  Christmas  Eve  party  at 
their  home.  The  decorations  are  always  lovely  and  tastefully  done    Jean  keeps 
her  eye  out  for  new  treats,  and  shared  this  one  with  me  some  years  ago  when  I 
yelled  for  help  at  the  last  minute.  M.P 


1 

10-ounce  package 

2 

eggs 

strawberries  or  1  cup 

1/2 

cup  oil 

2 

cups  flour  (plain) 

1 

cup  sugar 

1 

2 

teaspoon  cinnamon 
teaspoon  sah 

1/2 

teaspoon  baking  soda 

Puree  strawberries  and  combine  with  eggs  and  oil.  Whisk.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
together  before  adding  to  strawberry  mixture    Mix  with  a  wooden  spoon 
Pour  into  a  greased  loaf  pan.  Sprinkle  with  a  spoonful  of  sugar   Bake  at  325 
degrees  for  1  hour  and  10  minutes.  Put  on  side  to  cool. 

Jean  Jordan  Taylor,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Morehead  City  Hush  Puppies 

The  mention  of  Morehead  City  or  Atlantic  Beach  to  almost  anyone  who  grew 
up  in  Eastern  North  Carolina  will  probably  stimulate  a  discussion  of  summer 
visits  to  the  beach.  No  discussion  would  be  complete  without  mentioning  the 
wonderful  hush  puppies.  M.D. 

1    pound  water  ground  2  Tablespoons  sugar 

commeal  1  Tablespoon  salt 

1    egg,  beaten  1/2  pint  buttermilk 
1/2   teaspoon  soda 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Add  water  as  needed.  Drop  by  spoonful  into  deep  pot  of 
hot  grease.  Cook  until  brown.  Remove,  and  drain  on  absorbent  paper. 


Breads 


Rye  and  Indian  Muffins 


Two  cups  of  Indian  meal,  two  cups  of  rye  flour,  half  a  cup  of  yeast.  Let  it  rise 
overnight;  in  the  morning  add  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  half  a  cup  of  molasses, 
a  little  salt,  and  bake.  (Comment:  half  a  cup  of  yeast?) 


Hazelnut  Biscotti 

This  recipe  comes  from  a  friend  I've  known  since  childhood.  She  now  lives  on 
a  lovely  ranch  in  Everson,  Washington,  but  comes  back  East  now  and  then  to 
visit.  Along  with  the  recipe,  she  also  sent  hazelnuts  which  had  grown  on  a  tree 
in  her  back  yard.  M.P. 


12/3 

cups  hazelnuts. 

2  2/3 

cups  white  flour 

toasted  and  chopped 

1 

cup  whole  wheat  flour 

1  1/2 

cups  sugar 

6 

eggs 

1 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

dashof  sah 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

1 

grated  orange  peel 

melted  chocolate  (optional) 

Mix  flours,  sugar,  baking  powder,  and  salt    Add  eggs,  vanilla,  and  orange 
peel.  Mix.  Add  hazelnuts,  and  knead  for  5  minutes.  (If  very  wet,  knead  in 
more  flour.)  Butter  and  flour  a  cookie  sheet  or  pizza  stone    Divide  dough, 
shape  into  2  logs,  and  place  on  cookie  sheet.  Bake  35  minutes  at  350  degrees. 
Remove  from  oven    Cut  logs  diagonally.  Place  individual  slices  back  on 
cookie  sheets,  and  bake  15  minutes  at  325  degrees.  Cool  on  racks,  dip  tops  in 
mehed  chocolate,  and  let  biscotti  cool  on  waxed  paper   Makes  lots! 

Diane  Post  Miller,  Everson,  Washington 


Breads 


Ann's  Corn  Muffins 


This  recipe  and  the  three  following  it  are  contributed  by  family  members,  some 
no  longer  living,  but  still  much  appreciated  for  their  love  of  good  food  and 
good  friends    MP. 

1  scant  cup  cornmeal  1  scant  Tablespoon  flour 

1  1/2  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  1/2  teaspoons  sugar 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

1/2  cup  milk  or  more  4  Tablespoons  melted  lard 

Sift  together  cornmeal,  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar,  and  salt.  Beat  egg.  Add 
milk  and  mehed  lard    Blend  2  mixtures  together   Preheat  oven  to  450  de- 
grees. Heat  greased  muffin  pan  in  oven.  Pour  in  batter  and  bake  10  minutes. 

Ann  Proffitt  Wine,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


Jo's  Spoon  Bread 

This  Jo,  and  the  Ann  in  the  title  above,  were  sisters  of  Genevieve  Proffitt. 
Bebe,  as  we  call  her,  collected  Jo's  and  Aim's  recipes  and  later  gave  them  to  us. 
We  are  proud  to  have  these  types  of  family  heirlooms.  MP 

2  cups  sweet  milk  1/2  cup  com  meal 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  1/2  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  2  eggs,  separated 

1/2  teaspoon  butter 

Heat  milk,  and  add  com  meal.  Cook  until  thick.  Remove  from  heat,  and  stir  in 
salt,  sugar,  and  baking  powder.    Beat  egg  yolks;  then  add  to  mixture  along 
with  the  butter.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.    Bake  in  a  greased  pan  at 
400  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes. 

Josephine  Proffitt  Clements,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


Breads 

Pineapple  Bran  Muffins 

Unlike  many  other  recipes  from  the  same  source,  this  one  can  easily  fit  in  with 
today's  healthy  food  choices    It  comes  from  notes  made  in  a  cookbook  that 
belonged  to  Jo,  Ann,  and  Bebe's  mother  The  cookbook,  over  1 00  years  old, 
has  been  on  our  own  shelf  for  many,  many  years,  and  it  has  been  fun  to  use  it  in 
our  research  for  this  book      MP. 

1    cup  flour  1    teaspoon  soda 

1  1/2    teaspoon  salt  2    cups  bran 

1  1/4    cups  milk  1/2    cup  corn  syrup 

1    cup  drained,  crushed 
pineapple 

Mix  flour,  soda,  and  salt    Add  bran,  milk,  com  syrup,  and  pineapple.  Bake  in 
small,  greased  muffin  pans  in  425  degree  oven  for  about  25  minutes. 

Annie  Fox  Proffitt,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


Rumford  Dumplings 

11/2    cups  flour  1/2   level  teaspoon  salt 

2    level  teaspoons  Rumford  2/3    cups  milk 

baking  powder 

Sift  together  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder.  Add  enough  milk  to  make  the 
mixture  the  consistency  of  biscuit  dough.  Pat  or  roll  on  a  board  until  1/2  inch 
thick.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  and  drop  into  boiling  stew.  Cook  10  minutes 
without  removing  the  lid  of  the  saucepan    If  the  lid  is  lifted  before  the  dough  is 
cooked,  the  rush  of  cold  air  may  cause  the  dumplings  to  fall.  However,  some 
people  like  "sad"  dumplings  better  than  fluffy  ones. 

Genevieve  Proffitt,  Salisbury,  Maryland 


Breads 


E^:    War  Bread  and  Brown  Bread 


These  recipes  of  Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  my  grandmother,  were  used  during 
World  War  II,  when  sugar  and  eggs  were  scarce  or  not  available  at  all,  and 
directions  for  the  war  bread  were  also  scarce    M.D. 


r  Bread: 

1/4    cup  black  molasses 
1/4    cup  cornmeal 

2 
3/4 

Tablespoons  brown  sugar 
cup  white  flour 

1    cup  graham  flour 
1/2    cup  nuts  or  fruit 
3/4    teaspoons  salt 

2 

1/4 

1 

teaspoons  baking  powder 
cup  peanuts 
cup  milk 

Put  nuts  into  dry  ingredients.  Dissolve  soda  in  1  tablespoon  boiling  water   Put 
in  last    It  takes  about  40  minutes  to  bake. 


Brown  Bread: 

2    cups  sour  milk 
1    teaspoon  salt 
1  1/2    cups  raisins 


1    cup  molasses 
3  1/2    cups  graham  flour 
2  1/4   teaspoon  salt 


Mix  sour  milk  and  molasses.  Stir  in  dry  ingredients  which  have  been  sifted 
together  Add  floured  raisins.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  well-greased  1 -pound 
baking  powder  cans  and  steam  6  hours.  Dry  out  in  oven  10  minutes. 


'^    Breakfast  Gems 


One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon- 
flil  of  salt,  one  teaspoonfu!  of  baking  powder,  beaten  together  five  minutes. 
Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven  about  1 5  minutes. 


Breads 

Old-Fashioned  Spoon  Bread 

1  cup  commeal  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  1/2  stick  butter 

1/4  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  buttermilk 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately 

Sift  meal  and  salt  together;  then  pour  gradually  into  boiling  water  Mix  well. 
Stir  in  butter  Stir  soda  into  buttermilk,  then  pour  slowly  into  meal  mixture. 
Add  beaten  egg  yolks,  and  mix  well.  Just  before  placing  in  oven,  fold  in  stiffly 
beaten  egg  whites.  Pour  into  a  lightly  greased  1  1/2-quart  casserole,  and  bake 
at  375  degrees  for  about  50  minutes  until  puffed  and  firm  to  the  touch. 

Sara  Moss  McCowen,  Richmond,  Virginia 


Alene's  Biscuits 

Most  people  I  know,  when  describing  the  perfect  biscuit,  refer  to  how  high  and 
light  it  is.  Perhaps  they  are  right,  but  my  memories  of  perfect  biscuits  are  of 
those  that  are  somewhat  flat,  yet  wonderfiilly  flavorfial.  My  dad  made  them 
that  way,  and  so  did  our  North  Carolina  fi"iend  Alene  Fleming.  I  didn't  have 
either  recipe  written  down,  so  I  called  on  Alene's  daughter  to  send  me  the 
recipe  she  uses.  MP 

2    cups  self-rising  flour  1/2    cup  shortening 

1/2    cup  whole  milk 

Cut  shortening  into  flour.  Add  milk  and  stir  together.  Beat  by  hand  about  a 
minute   Put  on  floured  paper,  knead  dough,  and  roll  out.  Cut  into  biscuits  and 
bake  at  425  degrees  about  10  minutes 

Selma  Jean  Everett,  Hassell,  North  Carolina 


11 


Breads 

Corn  Dumplings 

The  first  corn  dumplings  I  remember  eating  were  prepared  by  my  sister-in-law 
Jeanne.  She  and  her  husband,  Bud,  often  hosted  family  reunions  at  their  cabin 
on  the  Cowpasture  River,  located  in  the  mountains  of  Virginia  near  Clifton 
Forge.  Everyone  brought  lots  of  dehcious  food,  but  we  always  convinced 
Jeanne  to  make  corn  dumplings.  There  are  many  ways  to  fine-tune  recipes,  but 
these  directions  will  get  you  started  on  a  luscious  side  dish  using  good,  fresh 
com     MP. 

3  to  4    ears  fresh  corn  4    cups  water 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste  sugar  to  taste 

2    cups  milk,  or  more  dumplings 

butter 

Cut  corn  from  cob,  and  scrape  cob.  Cook  corn  in  water  to  which  salt,  pepper, 
and  sugar  have  been  added.  Prepare  your  favorite  dumpling  recipe,  or  cut 
canned  biscuits  into  quarters    Add  milk  to  com,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Drop 
dumplings  that  have  been  coated  with  flour  into  boiling  liquid.  Reduce  heat, 
cover,  and  cook  for  10  to  12  minutes.  More  milk  and  sugar  may  be  added,  and 
the  liquid  may  be  thickened  if  desired.  A  big  dollop  of  butter  adds  flavor. 

Jeanne  Miller  Proffitt,  Pearisburg,  Virginia 


Pop  Overs 


Four  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  four  cups  of  milk,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  two 
nutmegs,  half  a  teaspoonfiil  of  saU,  melt  the  butter.  (Comment:  Did  all  cooks 
instinctively  know  what  to  do  just  by  reading  these  limited  directions?) 


12 


Breads 

German  Dumplings 

When  one  of  our  sons  married  into  a  family  with  German  heritage,  we  gained  a 
wonderful  friend,  our  daughter-in-law's  mother,  Gerda.  She  has  shared  several 
of  her  recipes  with  me,  and  I  happily  pass  them  on  to  you.    MP. 

lto2    eggs  1/4   teaspoon  sah 

1/2    eggshell  of  vinegar  flour 

Whip  together  eggs,  salt,  and  vinegar   Add  just  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiflf 
batter.  Drop  by  teaspoon  into  hot  soup  or  on  top  of  sauerkraut.  Cover,  and 
cook  for  10  minutes.  Remove  cover,  cook  15  minutes  longer.  For  smaller 
dumplings,  use  1/2  teaspoon.  (Dip  spoon  in  soup  or  kraut  juice  each  time  to 
prevent  sticking.) 

Gerda  L'Heureux,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Black  Iron  Skillet  Cornbread 

If  you  don't  have  a  black  iron  skillet,  get  one.  You  may  not  use  it  much  for 
frying,  but  nothing  beats  a  well-seasoned  skillet  for  making  cornbread.    M.P 

11/2  cups  commeal  2  Tablespoons  baking 

1  teaspoon  salt  powder 

2  eggs  2  Tablespoon  sugar 
1/4  cup  vegetable  oil  1  1/2  cups  milk 

Place  iron  skillet  into  preheated  400  degree  oven  for  1 5  minutes    While  skillet 
is  heating,  mix  commeal,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  sugar.    In  a  separate  bowl, 
combine  eggs,  milk,  and  vegetable  oil.  Then  blend  the  two  mixtures    Remove 
skillet  from  oven  and  lightly  grease  immediately.  Pour  mixture  into  skillet. 
Bake  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  brown. 


13 


Breads 


W'    Mrs.  Bleeker's  Waffles 


One  quart  of  milk,  a  little  sour  if  possible,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
a  piece  of  lard  the  same  size,  four  eggs    Mix  well  with  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter  If  the  milk  is  a  little  sour,  enough  soda  to  cover  a  five-cent  piece 
will  be  sufficient  to  raise  the  waffles,  but  if  it  is  fresh  a  teaspoonful  of  soda 
must  be  used,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Bake  as  quickly  as  possible. 


Cornmeal  Waffles 


3/4 

cups  sifted  flour 

2 

eggs,  beaten  separately 

3 

teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  1/3 

cups  milk  (about) 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

1  1/2 

cups  water  ground 

2 

Tablespoons  sugar 

cornmeal 

1/2 

cup  melted  shortening 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  sugar.  Beat  eggs  whites  until  stiff 
but  not  dry    Set  aside    Beat  egg  yolks,  and  add  milk    Add  sifted  dry  ingredi- 
ents to  cornmeal,  mixing  just  enough  to  blend.  Add  meked  shortening.  Fold 
in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  waffle  iron  about  5  min- 
utes or  until  done.  If  batter  stiffens  too  much,  add  milk,  a  tablespoon  at  a  time, 
until  batter  is  thinned  slightly   Makes  5  or  6  waffles. 

Sara  Gabel,   Washington,  North  Carolina 


14 


Breads 


Eye-Popping  Pancake 

This  is  a  recipe  we  sometimes  use  for  our  traditional  Christmas  brunch    It 
bakes  beautifully  in  a  black  iron  skillet,  and  the  grandchildren's  eyes  really  do 
pop  when  they  peek  at  it  through  the  glass  window  of  our  oven.    MP. 


4    Tablespoons  margarine 

4    eggs,  beaten 

1    cup  flour 

1    cup  milk 

1/2    teaspoon  salt 

2    Tablespoons  sugar 

Preheat  oven  to  400  degrees    Mix  flour  with  beaten  eggs    Fully  blend  milk 
and  salt  with  egg  mixture.  Melt  margarine  in  black  iron  skillet  until  it  bubbles. 
Pour  in  egg  mixture,  and  place  in  oven  immediately   Don't  even  think  of 
looking  for  20  minutes!    Then  sprinkle  the  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  on  top  of 
pancake,  and  bake  another  10  minutes.  Serve  in  wedges  with  syrup,  hot  fruit 
pie  filling,  or  your  favorite  fresh  fruit. 


Sourdough  Pancakes 


1/2 

cup  sourdough  starter 

2  1/2 

cups  whole  wheat  flour 

2 

cups  warm  water 

or  unbleached  all-purpose 

3/4 

cup  milk 

flour 

2 

Tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

1 

egg,  beaten 

1 

teaspoon  sah 

1 

teaspoon  baking  soda 

2 

Tablespoons  brown  sugar 

Combine  starter,  flour,  and  water;  blend  well    Add  milk,  oil,  and  egg,  mix 
thoroughly   Combine  sah,  soda,  and  sugar;  sprinkle  over  batter,  and  fold  in 
gently.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes.  Drop  batter  by  spoonfials  onto  hot  griddle, 
and  cook  until  lightly  browned  on  both  sides.  Fruit  or  nuts  may  be  added  to 
the  batter   (To  replenish  starter,  add  1  1/2  cups  strong,  bread-type  flour  and  1 
cup  warm  water  to  unused  starter   Beat  until  smooth;  cover,  and  let  stand  in  a 
warm  place  overnight.  Return  to  refrigerator  until  needed.) 


15 


Breads 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuits 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1     cup  flufiy  mashed 

1  cup  sifted  flour  sweet  potatoes 

3/4  teaspoon  salt  4    Tablespoons  cold  Crisco 

2/3  cup  sweet  milk  or  less  shortening 

Preheat  oven  to  450  degrees    Sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder  together   Cut 
in  shortening    Mix  in  sweet  potatoes  and  enough  milk  so  the  dough  is  soft  but 
stiff  enough  to  handle.  Put  dough  on  floured  board  and  mold  into  a  ball.  Do 
not  knead    Roll  to  1/2-inch  thickness    Cut  into  rounds,  and  place  on  lightly 
greased  and  floured  pan.  Bake  12  to  15  minutes.  Makes  8  to  10  biscuits 


^p    Soft  Gingerbread 

3  cups  flour  1/2  cup  milk 

1/2  cup  lard  1  1/2  cups  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  ginger 

2  eggs,  separated 

Cut  lard  into  flour   Beat  egg  yolks,  add  milk,  soda,  ginger,  and  molasses    Stir 
in  flour  mixture.  Beat  egg  whites  to  a  stiff" froth,  and  fold  in  careflilly.  Bake 
for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


16 


siSB€'^ 


Home  in  Washington 

Growing  up  in  Eastern  North  Carolina  I  thought  when  I 

said  I  lived  in  Washington,  everyone  would  know  I  meant 

the  "Original  Washington. "  The  town  was  built  along  the 

Pamlico  River,  and  is  as  lovely  and  friendly  today  as  it  was 

when  I  grew  up  in  this  house  by  the  river  —  M.D. 


ENTERTAINING  ABC'S 


Appetizers 


When  I  was  growing  up  in  Washington,  North  Carolina,  Coca  Cola  parties 
were  popular  ways  of  entertaining  during  the  summer  months.  We  really  didn't 
need  a  reason  or  excuse  to  have  one  of  these  morning  parties,  but  someone's 
out-of-town  company  nearly  always  called  for  a  get-together!  Whatever  the 
occasion,  friends  were  called,  usually  a  few  days  in  advance,  by  the  hostess  and 
everyone  arrived  ready  to  enjoy  each  other's  company,  catch  up  on  local  news, 
and  enjoy  the  refreshments    Miniature  sandwiches,  filled  pastry  shells,  nuts, 
mints,  brownies  or  cake,  and  other  assorted  goodies  were  served  along  with 
colas  or  iced  tea    Depending  on  the  occasion,  good  china  and  crystal  might  be 
used    The  parties  were  fian  and  the  refreshments  were  always  delicious! 
MD 


Cucumber  Tea  Sandwiches 

1/2    small  onion,  chopped  2    8-ounce  packages  cream 

1    large  cucumber,  peeled  cheese 

and  thinly  sliced  80    slices  thin  white  bread 

Blend  onion  and  cream  cheese.    Using  a  2  1/2-inch  biscuit  cutter,  cut  bread 
slices  into  rounds.  Spread  about  1  tablespoon  cream  cheese  mixture  on  bread 
rounds.  Arrange  cucumber  slices  over  cream  cheese  mixture    Serve  either 
open-faced  or  closed,  using  a  bread  round  on  top. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


19 


Entertainhig  ABC  "'5 


Ribbon  Cream  Cheese  and  Olive  Sandwiches 

These  sandwiches  were  often  served  at  Coca  Cola  parties,  receptions,  and 
other  occasions  when  light  refreshments  were  served.  The  amount  of  ingredi- 
ents would  depend  on  the  quantity  of  sandwiches  needed.  M.D. 

cream  cheese,  softened  milk 

mayonnaise  Miracle  Whip  salad  dressing 

olive  juice  stuffed  olives,  chopped 

loaf  bread  food  coloring 

Combine  mayonnaise,  Miracle  Whip,  olive  juice,  and  chopped  olives  with 
cream  cheese.  Add  milk  as  needed  for  consistency   Blend  in  food  coloring  as 
desired    Spread  thickly  on  bread.  Remove  crusts,  and  cut  sandwiches  into  3 
or  4  rectangular  strips 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 

Chili  Dip 

Our  son  Leon  learned  to  do  many  household  chores  when  he  was  growing  up. 
He  always  liked  to  give  parties  for  folks,  and  still  does.  He  makes  this  dip 
when  he  and  his  wife  entertain,  which  they  often  do.  It  can  be  made  ahead  of 
time  and  can  also  be fi-ozen.    MP. 

1    pound  lean  ground  beef  1    pound  processed  American 

1  can  tomatoes  and  green  chilies  cheese 

2  Tablespoons  Worcestershire  1/2    teaspoon  chili  powder,  or 
sauce  more 

1    small  onion,  chopped  fine 

Brown  and  drain  ground  beef  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  stir  together. 
Bring  to  boil    Cook  at  a  fast  simmer  for  1  hour,  stirring  frequently.  A  crock 
pot  may  be  used  for  the  simmering  process. 

Leon  Proffitt,  Chesapeake,  Virginia 

20 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Smoky  Meat  Balls 

Not  only  did  Mary  and  I  teach  in  the  Virginia  Beach  Public  School  System,  but 
our  husbands  did  also     The  four  of  us  worked  at  many  different  locations  in 
various  capacities  through  the  years.  Along  the  way,  we  collected  many 
recipes  that  we  are  happy  to  share    This  one  came  from  a  teacher  at 
Thoroughgood  Elementary  School.  MP. 


2 

pounds  lean  ground  beef 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

'4 

teaspoon  garlic  sah 

1/4 

cup  chopped  onion 

'4 

teaspoon  pepper 

1/2 

cup  fine  cracker  crumbs 

1 

egg 

1 

Tablespoon  salad  oil 

1 

bottle  (18  ounces) 

1/4 

cup  milk 

smoky-type  barbecue  sauce  1    cup  water 

Mix  together  until  lightly  blended  the  ground  beef,  onion,  sah,  pepper,  garlic 
sah,  cracker  crumbs,  egg,  and  milk    Shape  into  meat  balls  about  the  size  of 
walnuts    Brown  in  hot  salad  oil  on  all  sides    In  a  large  pan,  mix  barbecue 
sauce  and  water   Place  the  browned  meat  balls  in  sauce,  simmer  for  15  min- 
utes. Pour  meat  balls  and  sauce  into  a  chafing  dish,  and  serve  with  small  picks. 
Makes  8  dozen. 

Dottie  McCarson,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Sausage  Tid-Bits 

1    pound  sausage  (hot)  3  cups  Bisquick 

10    ounces  sharp  cheese,  grated 

Mix  well,  like  pastry   Make  into  small  balls    Bake  at  350  degrees  near  top  of 
oven  for  about  15  to  18  minutes,  on  a  cookie  sheet    These  can  be  frozen  and 
reheated  in  350  degree  oven  for  about  10  minutes    Makes  100  balls  the  size  of 
marbles. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroUna 

21 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Artichoke  Dip 

2    1 0-ounce  packages  frozen  1    cup  mayonnaise 

artichoke  hearts  1    cup  medium  hot  salsa 

1    cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Thaw  artichokes  in  microwave,  chop  in  food  processor   In  a  large  bowl,  mix 
all  ingredients  together,  pour  into  baking  dish    Bake  at  350  degrees  for  ap- 
proximately 20  minutes  or  until  bubbly. 

Michelle  Taylor,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Chicken  Salad  Miniatures 

1    loaf  thin  sliced  bread  or  1    cup  cooked  chicken, 

60  miniature  pastry  shells  finely  chopped 

1/2    cup  minced  celery  1/4    cup  pecans,  toasted 

1    teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  chopped 

mayonnaise  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Combine  chicken,  celery,  pecans,  and  lemon  juice.  Add  enough  mayonnaise  to 
moisten  mixture    Season  with  salt  and  pepper   Fill  pastry  shells,  or  spread  on 
bread  slices  that  have  had  crusts  removed. 

Pastry  Shells: 

1    stick  butter  1    3 -ounce  package  cream 

1    cup  flour  cheese 

Mix  together  thoroughly.  May  be  put  in  plastic  bag  to  mix  or  mix  with  bare 
hand    Chill    Pat  or  roll  out,  and  fit  into  small  muffin  tins    Bake  about  10 
minutes  in  350  degree  oven. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


22 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Cheese  Biscuits 


These  were  a  Christmas  tradition  at  our  house.  Mother  always  made  these  in 
plenty  of  time  to  have  for  the  family  and  to  serve  to  guests  during  the  holidays 
She  kept  the  cheese  biscuits  in  fruit  cake  tins    We  all  knew  which  tins  had  the 
cheese  biscuits,  and  often  we  would  catch  each  other  with  the  lid  in  one  hand 
and  cheese  biscuits  in  the  other!  My  husband  and  children  always  start  in  early 
December  asking  me  to  make  these  biscuits.  M  D. 

1  pound  butter  or  margarine  1    pound  sharp  American 

1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper  cheese,  grated  fine 

1  small  can  Parmesan  cheese  pecan  halves,  optional 
4  cups  flour                                              confectioners'  sugar 

Cream  together  butter,  cheeses,  and  pepper   Add  flour  and  mix  well    Roll  out 
on  floured  board    Cut  out  biscuits  with  a  1-inch  cookie  cutter.  Arrange  on 
ungreased  cookie  sheet,  and  bake  at  325  degrees  for  10-15  minutes.  If  de- 
sired, a  pecan  half  may  be  placed  on  top  before  baking  Let  cool    Sift  confec- 
tioners' sugar  on  top  if  desired.  Makes  about  300  cheese  biscuits    Recipe  can 
easily  be  cut  in  half 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Cheese  Ball 

2  8-ounce  packages  cream  cheese        1    teaspoon  onion,  chopped 
1/4    cup  chopped  green  pepper  1    cup  pecans,  chopped 

1    small  can  crushed  pineapple, 
drained 

Mix  and  mold  into  ball.  Refrigerate.  Serve  with  crackers 

Helen  Taylor  Clark,  Wachapreagite,  Virginia 


23 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Braunschweiger  Pate 


1    pound  Braunschweiger  1 

1    package  green  onion  dip  mix  1/8 

1    teaspoon  sugar  1/8 

1    8-ounce  package  cream 
cheese 


Tablespoon  milk 
teaspoon  hot  pepper  sauce 
teaspoon  garlic  powder 


Bring  liverwurst  and  cream  cheese  to  room  temperature    Mash  liverwurst,  and 
mix  with  dip  mix,  garlic  powder,  sugar,  and  2  ounces  of  cream  cheese    Form 
into  one  igloo  shape  or  2  loaves  and  chill    Mix  milk  and  6  ounces  of  cream 
cheese    Spread  over  mold  and  chill.   Serve  with  rye  crackers,  Melba  toast, 
Ritz  crackers,  or  small  rounds  from  party-size  pumpernickel  bread 

Bayside  Junior  High  School,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Crab  Swiss  Bites 


1  can  lump  crabmeat 

1  spring  onion,  diced  with  stem 

1/4  teaspoon  curry 

1  package  butterflake  rolls 


4    ounces  Swiss  cheese 
1/2    cup  mayonnaise 
1/2    teaspoon  lemon  juice 

1    small  can  water  chestnuts, 
sliced 


Combine  crabmeat,  cheese,  onion,  mayonnaise,  curry,  lemon  juice    Separate 
sections  of  rolls    Top  with  1  slice  water  chestnut  and  1  teaspoon  of  crab 
mixture    Bake  on  ungreased  sheet  for  10  minutes  at  400  degrees. 

Rose  Snyder,  Jensen  Beach,  Florida 


24 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Salmon  Ball 

1  15  l/2-ounce  can  red  salmon  1    8-ounce  package  Neufchat el 

1  Tablespoon  minced  onion  cheese,  softened 

1  Tablespoon  lemon  juice  1    teaspoon  horseradish 

1/2  teaspoon  liquid  smoke 

Drain  and  flake  salmon    Combine  with  all  other  ingredients.  Shape  into  ball. 
Chill  2  hours,  or  until  firm    Serve  with  crackers 

Margaret  Taylor  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Sesame  Dip 

1/4    teaspoon  ginger  1/4   teaspoon  curry  powder 

2    teaspoons  soy  sauce  1/2    cup  real  mayonnaise 

1/3    cup  toasted  sesame  seeds  1    8-ounce  container  sour  cream 

Combine  ginger,  curry,  and  soy  sauce    Gradually  stir  in  mayonnaise  and  sour 
cream  Stir  in  toasted  sesame  seeds    (To  toast  sesame  seeds,  spread  in  pie  pan, 
bake  in  a  preheated  350  degree  oven,  about  10  minutes  or  until  a  light  golden 
brown,  stirring  fi-equently.)    Makes  2  cups. 


Shrimp  Spread 

2    cans  shrimp  dash  of  lemon  juice 

dash  of  garlic  sah  2    stalks  of  celery,  finely 

2    green  onions,  finely  chopped  chopped 

mayonnaise 

Rinse  and  mash  shrimp.  Add  finely  chopped  celery,  onion,  and  other  ingredi- 
ents. Mix  in  enough  mayonnaise  to  bind  together 


25 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Beverages 


Fruit  Punch 


Juice  of  1 0  lemons 

Juice  of  10  oranges  and  some  grapefruit  juice 

As  much  water  as  you  want,  and  put  in  a  bottle  of  grape  juice  to  color  it 

To  make  it  better  mash  a  pineapple  and  some  bananas. 

Combine  all  ingredients  for  a  delicious  punch! 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carohna 


Punch 

Any  good  tea  —  cooled 
25-cent  can  of  grated  pineapple 
ginger  ale  (about  1  bottle)  or 
ginger  extract,  as  you  like. 


1    quart  grape  juice 
1/2    dozen  lemons 


Add  any  other  fruits,  cherries,  oranges,  etc  Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  ice 
cold  Use  more  than  half  of  tea  and  use  as  much  of  the  other  ingredients  as 
you  want  and  need 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


26 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Iced  Coffee  Punch 

Mother  served  this  for  a  D  A.R  meeting  on  September  1 7,  1958,  along  with 
chicken  salad  sandwiches,  cheese  biscuits,  nuts,  mints,  and  decorated  cake 
squares    M.D. 

1    gallon  double  strength  1    gallon  vanilla  ice  cream 

instant  coffee,  cooled  1  1/2    pints  whipping  cream 

Add  ice  cream  to  cold  coffee    Stir  Fold  in  whipped  cream    Chill  by  adding 
regular  strength  coffee  ice  cubes. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroHna 

Carpenters'  Punch 

2    46-ounce  cans  berry  1    1 2-ounce  can  lemonade 

Hawaiian  fruit  punch,  chilled  concentrate,  thawed 

2    24-ounce  bottles  white  grape 
juice,  chilled 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Serve  over  ice.  Makes  about  20  cups. 

Champagne  Punch 

1    1/2  cups  sugar  2  cups  lemon  juice 

2  fifths  Sauterne,  chilled  1  fifth  champagne,  chilled 

1/2  cup  Cointreau  (optional)  1/2  cup  brandy  (optional) 

1  lemon,  sliced  1  1/2  cups  strawberries,  sliced 

Combine  sugar  and  lemon  juice.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved    Chill  thoroughly. 
Just  before  serving,  pour  over  ice  in  punch  bowl    Stir  in  Sauterne  and  cham- 
pagne   Add  Cointreau  and  brandy,  if  desired.  Garnish  with  lemon  slices  and 
strawberries 


27 


Entertaining  ABC's 


English  Wassail 

Ladled  from  a  plain  old  crock  or  a  fancy  silver  bowl,  the  combined  ingredients 
of  this  recipe  provide  a  wonderful  aroma  that  only  adds  to  the  holiday  festivi- 
ties of  Christmastime    It  also  provides  an  opportunity  to  explain  to  the  little 
ones  that  a  wassail  is  a  drink  used  for  especially  festive  occasions.  Grandma, 
in  order  to  further  explain,  might  sing  a  quick  chorus  of  "Here  we  Come  A- 
Wassailing  "    This  usually  sends  the  grandchildren  quickly  on  their  way.  You 
will  probably  like  this  flavorful  quaff,  but  my  advice  to  all  you  grandmas: 
Don't  sing!    M.P. 


1    quart  apple  cider 
1  /2    teaspoon  honey 
1    stick  cinnamon 


1    cup  orange  juice 
1/3    cup  lemon  juice 


In  2  quart  sauce  pan,  warm  cider  over  low  heat.  Add  other  ingredients  and  let 
simmer  for  8  to  10  minutes    Serve  while  still  warm. 


Daiquiri  Punch 


2    6-ounce  cans  frozen  limeade, 

thawed 
1    6-ounce  can  frozen  orange  juice, 

thawed 
8    cups  water,  chilled 


1    6-ounce  can  frozen  lemonade, 

thawed 
1    fifth  rum 
4    cups  carbonated  water, 

chilled 


Combine  fruit  juices  with  8  cups  of  water  and  chill    Combine  mixture,  4  cups 
of  carbonated  water,  and  rum  in  punchbowl.  Delicious  but  potent!  Useless 
rum  if  desired. 


28 


Etitertaiuing  ABC's 


Conversation  Snacks 


Crepes  Beignets  with  Raspberry  Dip 

18    baked  crepes  (7  inches)  vegetable  oil  for  frying 

cinnamon-sugar  or  powdered 
sugar 

Make  3  stacks  of  6  crepes  each    Cut  each  stack  with  a  sharp  knife  into  1-inch 
strips.  Separate.  Pour  oil  into  sauce  pan  or  deep  fat  fryer  to  a  depth  of  1  1/2 
inches    Heat  oil  to  moderate  350  degrees.  Drop  a  handful  of  strips  into  hot 
oil.  Fry  until  golden  and  crisp,  about  1  minute,  poking  strips  down  constantly 
with  slotted  spoon.  Drain  strips  on  paper  towels.  Dust  with  cinnamon-sugar 
or  powdered  sugar.  Serve  beignets  warm  or  cold  with  hot  dip.  Makes  about 
10  servings  (a  dozen  beignets  each). 

Brandied  Raspberry  Dip: 

1    12-ounce  jar  raspberry  1/4    cup  brandy 

preserves  1    teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Stir  ingredients  together,  and  heat  to  just  below  boiling.  Serve  hot  with 
beignets.  Makes  1  1/3  cups. 


^   Shelling  Nuts 


If  you  soak  nuts  in  sah  water  overnight  and  then  crack  them  by  striking  on  the 
end,  the  meats  will  come  out  whole. 


29 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Sally  Lunn  Muffins 

1  1/2    sticks  butter  2/3    cup  sugar 

3    eggs  3    cups  self-rising  flour 

1    cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together   Add  eggs  and  mix    To  these  ingredients, 
alternately  stir  in  flour  and  milk    Bake  at  400  degrees  in  greased  muffin  tins. 
Small  muffins  cook  5  minutes,  larger  muffins  take  longer.  These  fi'eeze  well. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroUna 


Sticky  Buns 

1  package  fi'ozen  bread  rolls  1/2  cup  walnuts  or  more 

1/2  cup  raisins  or  more  (optional)  1  teaspoon  cirmamon 

1  stick  butter,  melted  1  small  vanilla  pudding 

1/2  cup  brown  sugar  (not  instant) 

Place  nuts  and  raisins  in  bottom  of  a  greased  bundt  pan    Arrange  rolls  on  top. 
Mix  together  dry  pudding,  brown  sugar,  and  cirmamon.  Put  over  rolls    Pour 
melted  butter  over  all  of  the  above    Cover  with  greased  wax  paper  and  a  wet 
dish  towel    Let  rise  on  count ertop  overnight  (about  10  hours).  Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes    Cool  10  minutes  and  invert  on  plate. 


Salted  Pecans 

1    pound  shelled  pecan  halves  2    Tablespoons  margarine 

salt 

Meh  margarine,  then  stir  into  shelled  pecan  halves    Sprinkle  with  salt.  Spread 
nuts  on  cookie  sheet    Bake  in  oven  on  low  heat  until  crisp. 

June  Hand-Decker,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 
30 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Petite  Cherry  Tarts 

2  large  packages  cream  cheese  2    eggs 

1/2  cup  sugar  1    Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  vanilla  wafers 

1  can  cherry  pie  filling 

Mix  cream  cheese,  eggs,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  vanilla  with  fork  until  blended; 
then  beat  with  electric  mixer.  Put  muffin  papers  in  muffin  tins.  Place  a  vanilla 
wafer  in  bottom  of  each  paper,  and  fill  half  fiall  with  cream  cheese  mixture. 
Bake  for  15  minutes  at  350  degrees    Add  cherry  pie  fiUing  to  top  of  muffins. 
Chill  in  refrigerator.  Makes  2  dozen  small  tarts. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Pecan  Tarts 

Crust: 

1    3 -ounce  package  cream  1/2    cup  butter 

cheese  1    cup  flour 

dash  of  sah 

Mix  well.  Form  into  balls  and  press  into  small  muffin  tins. 

Filling: 

3/4    cup  brown  sugar  1    egg 

1    Tablespoon  butter  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

chopped  pecans 

Beat  egg.  Add  other  ingredients.  Spoon  into  tins    Bake  35  to  40  minutes  at 
350  degrees.  Makes  24  tarts. 


31 


Entertaining  ABC's 


Kentucky  Bourbon  Balls 

I  large  box  glazed  cherries  1    pint  Kentucky  bourbon 

1  box  semi-sweet  chocolate  1/4    pound  butter  or  margarine 

2  pounds  powdered  sugar  pinch  of  salt 
3/4  bar  of  paraffin,  melted  plastic  toothpick 


Cut  glazed  cherries  in  half,  and  marinate  in  bourbon  overnight  or  longer.  In  a 
large  bowl,  cut  1/4  pound  of  butter  or  margarine  into  2  pounds  of  powdered 
sugar   Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  bourbon  to  make  dough  workable 
(about  13  tablespoons)    Drain  marinated  cherries    Pinch  off  small  amount  of 
dough  and  flatten  between  fingers.  Place  half  a  cherry  in  middle  of  dough,  fold 
over  and  around,  then  shape  into  small  ball  and  place  on  waxed  paper  that  has 
been  put  over  bottom  of  cookie  sheet.  Refrigerate  overnight.  The  next  day, 
dip  each  ball  in  bourbon    Place  back  on  cookie  sheet,  and  refrigerate  again 
overnight. 

Chocolate  coating: 

Melt  box  of  semi-sweet  chocolate  in  top  of  double  boiler   Melt  paraffin,  add  to 
chocolate,  and  mix  well    Turn  off  heat    Stab  ball  with  toothpick;  dip  into 
chocolate    Let  excess  chocolate  drip  back  into  pan    Drop  ball  back  onto 
waxed  paper   When  all  balls  have  been  coated,  fill  in  holes  left  by  stick    Re- 
frigerate   When  chocolate  has  set,  balls  may  be  transferred  to  another  con- 
tainer for  continued  storage  in  refrigerator. 


32 


Coast  Guard  Station 


Several  of  my  ancestors  were  mariners.  They  must 

surely  have  been  grateful  for  the  life  saving  services 

provided  to  seamen  along  the  Virginia  and 

North  Carolina  coasts  —  M.P. 


MAIN  DISHES 
Beef 


Ann's  Meat  Loaf 


1  1/2    pounds  round  steak, 
ground 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

4  teaspoons  salt 
3    teaspoons  sage 

flour 


1/2    pounds  pork,  ground 
1    cup  cracker  crumbs 
8    Tablespoons  sweet  milk 
1    teaspoon  pepper 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg 


Mix  ground  steak  and  pork  together.  Add  all  other  ingredients  and  mix  well. 
Form  into  loaf,  dust  rather  heavily  with  flour,  and  place  in  pan.  Add  a  little 
water,  and  cover  for  baking.  Bake  in  350  to  400  degree  oven  for  about  2 
hours    Serves  6 

Ann  Proffitt  Wine,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


Meat  Loaf 

This  recipe  appears  exactly  as  I  found  it  among  my  grandmother's  recipes 
directions  and  no  explanation  of  scraps!  M.D. 


No 


25  cents  worth  scraps 

1  Tablespoon  onion,  cooked 

1  Tablespoon  of  green  peppers 

1  cup  bread  crumbs,  crushed 


5    cents  worth  frankfurters, 
weeny,  or  ham 
1/2    cup  thick  brown  sauce,  or 
1    whole  egg 


35 


Main  Dishes 


Meat  Loaf 


2  pounds  ground  beef 

3  Tablespoons  Worcestershire 
sauce 

onion  juice 
Adolph  salt 
2    slices  bacon  (reserve) 


handful  corn  flakes  or  bran 

flakes 
1    slice  bacon,  minced 

black  pepper 
1    egg,  unbeaten 


Mix  well  Shape  into  loaf.  Place  the  2  strips  of  bacon  in  bottom  of  pan.  Place 
meat  loaf  on  top.  Bake  in  aluminum  foil-lined  biscuit  pan  at  350  degrees  for  1 
hour. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Hamburger  Quiche 

My  fiiend  Ruth  gave  me  this  recipe  several  years  ago.  It  is  a  really  special  way 
to  fix  ground  beef  Add  a  salad  and  fixiit  or  vegetable  for  a  quick  and  easy  — 
and  good  dinner.    M.D 


1 

unbaked  pie  shell 

1/2 

pound  ground  beef 

1/2 

cup  mayonnaise 

1/2 

cup  milk 

2 

eggs 

1 

Tablespoon  cornstarch 

1/3 

cup  sliced  onion 

1  1/2 

cups  sharp  Cheddar  cheese. 

mushrooms  (optional) 

chopped 

Brown  beef  and  drain  off"  fat    Mix  mayonnaise,  milk,  eggs,  and  cornstarch. 
Stir  in  beef,  cheese,  and  onion.  Turn  into  pastry  shell.  Bake  35  to  40  minutes 
at  350  degrees  or  until  brown  on  top  and  knife  comes  out  clean. 

Ruth  Barco,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


36 


Main  Dishes 


Ml 


Spaghetti  Casserole 


Tablespoons  bacon 

drippings 

onion 

green  pepper 

1 

pound  hamburger 

can  tomatoes 

1 

can  tomato  sauce 

salt  and  pepper 

1 

can  mushrooms 

oregano 

spaghetti,  cooked 

pound  Cheddar 

cheese,  cubed 

Simmer  onion  and  green  pepper  in  bacon  drippings    Add  hamburger,  toma- 
toes, tomato  sauce,  seasonings,  and  mushrooms    Sprinkle  oregano  on  top  and 
cook  15  minutes.  Pour  over  cooked  spaghetti    Mix  and  pour  into  baking  dish. 
Spread  cubed  cheese  on  top    Bake  30  minutes  in  350  degree  oven.  May  be 
prepared  the  day  before  and  baked  later 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Spaghetti 


2 
1 

'4 

Tablespoons  bacon  drippings 
pound  ground  beef 
green  pepper,  minced 
salt 

1 
1 

2 

minced  onion 
can  tomatoes 
Tablespoons  celery, 
minced 

cayenne  pepper 

spaghetti 

Brown  minced  onion  in  bacon  drippings    Remove  onions  and  set  aside. 
Slowly  brown  ground  beef,  and  return  onion  to  pan.  Add  tomatoes,  green 
pepper,  celery,  and  seasonings    Cover  and  let  cook  for  45  minutes  on  medium 
heat.  Serve  with  cooked  spaghetti. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


37 


Main  Dishes 


Spaghetti  Sauce 

My  remarkable  daughter-in-law  Jennifer,  in  spite  of  lier  own  busy  life,  always 
finds  time  to  help  others    Mary  and  I  can  never  thank  her  enough  for  the 
wonderful  illustrations  she  has  contributed  to  this  book    MP. 

1    jar  prepared  spaghetti  sauce  2    14-ounce  cans  tomatoes 


1 

10-ounce  can  tomato  paste 

1 

cup  water 

1 

green  pepper,  chopped 

1 

small  onion,  chopped 

1 

teaspoon  oregano 

1 

8-ounce  package  sliced 

3 

bay  leaves 

pepperoni 

salt  to  taste 

1/4 

teaspoon  dried  red  peppers 

Combine  all  ingredients  in  pot,  simmer  for  2  hours.  Use  with  spaghetti  or  any 
other  favorite  pasta. 

Jennifer  Taylor  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Beef  Roast 

1  3- to  4-pound  lean  beef  roast  1  8-ounce  can  tomato  sauce 

1  teaspoon  prepared  mustard  1  teaspoon  brown  sugar 

1  teaspoon  prepared  horseradish  1  slice  of  bacon,  cooked  and 

3  carrots,  cut  in  large  pieces  crumbled 

4  onions,  quartered  4  potatoes,  halved 

Place  beef  roast  in  baking  dish    Combine  tomato  sauce,  mustard,  brown  sugar, 
horseradish,  and  bacon    Spread  over  roast    Cover  with  foil;  bake  in  325 
degree  oven  for  2  hours    Remove  fi"om  oven,  add  carrots,  onions,  and  pota- 
toes   Re-cover,  and  return  to  oven    Bake  another  hour,  or  until  vegetables  are 
done. 

Margaret  Taylor  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


38 


Main  Dishes 


Pot  Roast 

When  Mother  gave  me  this  recipe  several  years  ago,  she  told  me  the  roast  was 
worth  every  minute  of  the  time  it  took  to  prepare  it.  I  agree!  It  is  delicious! 
MD 


1 

2  1/2-  to  3 -pound  roast 

1/3 

cup  red  wine  (Burgundy) 

2 

cup  green  pepper,  chopped 

1/2 

cup  onion  chopped 

1 

clove  garlic,  minced. 

2  1/2 

teaspoons  sah 

or  garlic  salt 

2 

Tablespoons  shortening,  or 

4 

teaspoons  pepper 

oil 

1 

can  tomato  sauce 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  meat,  tomato  sauce,  and  shortening    Pour  over 
meat  as  a  marinade.  Marinate  at  least  2  hours  or  overnight.  Turn  several 
times.  Drain  meat,  save  marinade    Brown  roast  in  shortening.  Add  tomato 
sauce  and  marinade.  Cover.  Simmer  2  1/2  hours 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Eye  of  Round  Roast 


1    5-pound  eye  of  round  roast, 
or  larger 


sah 
pepper 


Put  in  350  degree  oven,  uncovered    Use  a  shallow  roasting  pan  without  a 
rack.  Do  not  add  water   Bake  about  30  minutes  per  pound    Baste  frequently 
while  the  roast  is  cooking.  During  last  half  hour,  add  a  little  water   After 
removing  from  oven,  cover  with  foil    Cut  very  thin  slices  while  it  is  still 
slightly  warm    Delicious  served  cold  with  horseradish-mustard  sauce.  Good 
for  buffet  when  served  with  party  rye  bread,  or  pumpernickel 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


39 


Main  Dishes 


Rouladen 

This  delicious  beef  dish  was  prepared  for  us  by  our  daughter-in-law  Susan  at 
our  first  meal  with  her  and  our  son  Michael  after  they  were  married.  Susan 
inherited  her  mother's  cooking  talent,  and  Michael  inherited  his  father's  love  for 
baking.  Together  they  presented  a  wonderful  dinner.  MP. 

breakfast  steak,  6  to  8  slices  bacon,  6  to  8  slices, 

chopped  onion  uncooked 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste  mustard 
brown  gravy 

Tenderize  steaks    Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Spread  a  generous  amount  of 
mustard  on  each  steak.  Put  one  slice  of  uncooked  bacon  on  each  steak. 
Sprinkle  with  chopped  onion,  roll  up  steak,  and  secure  with  a  toothpick. 
Brown  in  skillet,  and  simmer  45  minutes  to  an  hour  in  your  favorite  brown 
gravy  or,  as  a  perfect  complement  to  your  rouladen,  use  a  German  bratten 
sauce  (a  brown  gravy  mixture)  which  can  be  purchased  in  the  Virginia  Beach 
area  at  The  German  Pantry. 

Susan  Prqffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Meat  Tenderizer 

Lay  meat  a  few  minutes  in  a  strong  vinegar  water.  (Never  allow  fi'esh  meat  to 
remain  in  paper,  it  absorbs  the  juices  ) 


40 


Main  Dishes 


Easy  Chili 

1  pound  lean  ground  beef  1    teaspoon  chili  powder 

1  small  onion,  chopped  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  can  chili  beans  1    can  kidney  beans 

1  32-ounce  can  tomato  juice 

Brown  meat  and  onions    Drain.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Cover  and 
simmer  over  low  heat  for  2  to  3  hours 


Pepper  Steak  with  Cheddar  Noodles 

pounds  beef  (round  or  sirloin 
tip),  cut  in  strips 
green  peppers,  julienned 
beef  boullion  cube 
Tablespoons  water 
teaspoon  sugar 
cups  wide  noodles 


In  a  10-inch  skillet,  meh  butter  Add  beef  and  sprinkle  with  garlic  powder 
Saute,  stirring  occasionally  until  browned    Remove  meat  from  skillet  Add 
onion  and  green  pepper,  saute  two  minutes    Return  meat  to  skillet  with  toma- 
toes and  boullion  cube.  If  using  round  steak,  simmer  15  to  20  minutes.  If 
using  sirloin  tip,  simmer  5  minutes    Blend  together  corn  starch,  water,  soy 
sauce,  sugar,  and  salt.  Add  to  meat  mixture  and  cook,  stirring  constantly  until 
thickened    Reduce  heat  and  cook  2  additional  minutes    Meanwhile,  prepare 
noodles  according  to  package  directions.  Drain  and  toss  with  Cheddar  cheese 
To  serve,  spoon  pepper  steak  over  Cheddar  noodles. 

Emily  Groover  Shelley,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


41 


1/4 

cup  butter  (1/2  stick) 

1  1/2 

1/8 

teaspoon  garlic  powder 

1/3 

cup  chopped  onion 

1  1/2 

1 

1 -pound  can  tomatoes 

1 

1 

Tablespoon  cornstarch 

2 

2 

Tablespoons  soy  sauce 

1 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

3 

1 

cup  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 

Main  Dishes 


Pork 


Baked  Country  Ham 

There  is  a  story  about  a  young  woman  who  had  cut  off  the  end  of  the  ham  she 
was  cooking.  When  asked  why  she  had  cut  the  end  off  the  ham,  she  repHed,  "I 
don't  know,  my  mother  always  cut  off  one  end  of  her  hams  "  She  asked  her 
mother  why  she  did  it.  Her  mother  replied,  "It  was  because  the  ham  wouldn't 
fit  in  the  pot"  I  learned  much  of  what  I  know  about  cooking  from  watching 
my  mother.  However,  she  usually  explained  the  hows  and  whys!  M.D. 

Notice  the  weight  of  the  ham.  Wash  ham    Soak  in  water  to  cover  several 
hours,  depending  on  how  salty  you  want  the  ham  to  be.  The  bone  may  be 
removed  before  ham  is  cooked  if  desired.  Wrap  in  heavy  aluminum  foil.  Put 
on  rack  in  a  roaster.  Add  4  cups  water  and  put  the  lid  on.  Preheat  oven  to  500 
degrees.  Put  ham  in  the  oven.  (Careflil:  Don't  bum  your  hand.)  Cook  1 
minute  per  pound.  Turn  oven  off  Wait  3  hours.  Turn  oven  back  on  to  500 
degrees    When  oven  reaches  that  heat,  cook  ham  1  minute  per  pound  again. 
Cut  oven  off  and  leave  ham  in  oven  overnight.  Do  NOT  open  the  oven  door 
ANY  TIME  after  you  first  put  the  ham  in  the  oven  until  you  remove  it  the  next 
morning. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Pork  Chop  Casserole 

4  to  5    large  potatoes,  sliced  2    large  onions,  sliced 

1/2    can  mushroom  soup  6  to  8    pork  chops 

In  a  buttered  casserole,  layer  sliced  potatoes,  sliced  onions  and  mushroom 
soup.  Brown  pork  chops;  place  on  top    Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour 

42 


Main  Dishes 


Pork  Chop  With  Amber  Rice 

6     pork  chops,  3/4  inch  thick  1  1/3    cups  instant  rice 

1    cup  orange  juice  1    can  chicken-rice  soup 

salt  and  pepper 

Brown  pork  chops  in  skillet    Season  with  sah  and  pepper    Spread  rice  in 
bottom  of  a  12xl0x2-inch  baking  dish.  Carefully  pour  orange  juice  over  rice. 
Arrange  browned  pork  chops  on  rice    Pour  soup  over  all.  Cover  and  bake  in  a 
350  degree  oven  for  45  minutes.  Uncover  and  bake  an  additional  10  minutes 

Beans  with  Ham  Hock 

I  know!  I  know!  Ham  hocks  are  loaded  with  fat,  but  I  must  include  this 
recipe.  I've  often  heard  my  husband  reminisce  about  the  family  dinners  at  his 
home  in  Clifton  Forge,  Virginia,  during  The  Depression  days     His  mother 
would  prepare  a  huge  pot  of  dehcious  beans  (flavored  with  ham  hocks)  and 
serve  them  along  with  her  equally  delicious  hot  rolls  (made  with  lard)    No  one 
in  the  family  complained  then  and  probably  wouldn't  now.  I'm  sure  many 
other  households  in  those  days  were  glad  to  have  moms  who  could  provide 
such  good  tasting  food  during  such  bad  economic  times.  M.P. 

medium  onion,  chopped 
teaspoon  garlic  powder 
teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 
Tablespoon  Old  Bay 
seasoning 
smoked  ham  hock 
pound  beans,  your  choice 

Pick  through  beans,  and  rinse  Add  beans  to  water,  and  bring  to  a  boil,  boil  2 
minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  a  simmer.  Add  all  other  ingredients.  Simmer  for  2 
hours  or  until  beans  are  tender. 

DonProffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

43 


6 

cups  water 

1 

2 

small  bay  leaves 

1/4 

1 

Tablespoon  parsley  flakes 

1/8 

'2 

teaspoon  coarse  ground 

1 

black  pepper 

2 

teaspoons  sah 

1 
1 

Main  Dishes 


Lasagna 

The  Proffitts  and  the  DeFilippos  have  been  friends  for  years    We  are  more  like 
family,  really,  and  have  truly  experienced  much  of  life  together,  both  happiness 
and,  at  times,  sorrow.  However,  we  always  seem  to  find  a  way  to  enjoy  a 
good  meal.  It's  what  we  do  best.  This  lasagna  was  almost  the  end  of  Don  and 
Jack  once  when  they  polished  off  almost  a  full  pan  of  the  following  recipe  at 
one  sitting.  M.P. 

clove  garlic,  minced 
Tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
teaspoons  salt 
6-ounce  cans  tomato  paste 
1 2-ounce  carton  large  curd, 
cream-style  cottage  cheese 
teaspoons  sah 

Tablespoons  chopped  parsley 
pound  mozzarella  cheese, 
sliced  thin 

Brown  meat  slowly;  spoon  off  fat.  Add  garlic,  parsley,  basil,  1  1/2  teaspoons 
salt,  tomatoes,  and  tomato  paste  to  meat    Simmer,  uncovered,  until  thick  (45 
minutes  to  1  hour),  stirring  occasionally.  Cook  noodles  until  tender   Drain  and 
rinse  in  cold  water.  Combine  cottage  cheese  with  beaten  eggs,  2  teaspoons  of 
salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  Parmesan  cheese.  Place  half  of  the  noodles  in  a 
1 3x9x2-inch  baking  dish.  Spread  half  of  the  cottage  cheese  mixture  over  the 
noodles    Next,  spread  on  half  of  the  mozzarella  cheese  and  half  of  the  meat 
mixture.  Repeat  layers.  Bake  in  375  degree  oven  for  30  minutes.  Let  stand 
1 0  to  15  minutes  before  cutting. 

Joann  DeFilippo,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


1 

pound  Italian  pork  sausage 

1 

or  ground  beef 

1 

1 

Tablespoon  basil 

1  1/2 

1 

1  -pound  can  tomatoes 

2 

1 

10-ounce  package  of 
lasagna,  or  wide  noodles 

1 

2 

eggs,  beaten 

2 

'2 

teaspoon  pepper 

2 

'2 

cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

1 

44 


Main  Dishes 


Ham  and  Noodle  Casserole 

3/4 

cup  diced  onions 

1/2    cup  diced  green  pepper 

2 

teaspoons  salad  oil 

1    6-ounce  package  noodles 

1 

can  whole  tomatoes 

1    cup  water 

1  1/2 

cups  diced  ham 

1    teaspoon  sah 

1/4 

teaspoon  pepper 

1/2    teaspoon  paprika 

1/2 

pound  Cheddar  cheese, 
chopped 

buttered  bread  crumbs 

Cook  onions  and  green  pepper  slowly  in  oil  until  transparent  but  not  brown 
Add  uncooked  noodles,  tomatoes,  water,  ham,  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika. 
Simmer  10  minutes    Stir  in  cheese    Turn  into  a  greased  2-quart  casserole,  and 
top  with  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  40  to  45  minutes. 


Quiche  Lorraine 


1 

9-inch  unbaked  pie  shell 

3/4 

cup  grated  Swiss  cheese 

7 

slices  bacon,  fried  crisp. 

3 

eggs 

and  crumbled 

1  1/2 

cups  milk 

pinch  of  sugar 

pinch  of  nutmeg 

pinch  cayenne  pepper 

pinch  of  black  pepper 

Bake  pie  shell  at  400  degrees  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  oven,  and  turn 
temperature  back  to  300  degrees.   Sprinkle  cooked,  crumbled  bacon  over 
bottom  of  pie  shell    Spread  grated  cheese  over  bacon    Beat  together  eggs  and 
milk;  add  sugar,  nutmeg,  cayenne  pepper  and  black  pepper.  CareftiUy  pour  egg 
mixture  into  crust  and  bake  at  300  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes. 


45 


Mam  Dishes 


Barbecued  Hot  Dogs 

Lawrence  ProfFitt,  my  father-in-law,  was  one  of  the  most  fun-loving  people  I 
have  ever  known.  He  loved  his  family  and  made  each  of  us  who  married  into  it 
feel  as  if  we  had  always  belonged  there.  This  recipe  was  his  specialty   I  still 
have  the  original  copy  that  he  typed  up  for  me  on  his  ancient  typewriter   It  has 
long  since  become  stained  with  Worcestershire  sauce  and  other  seasonings,  as 
it  was  often  used  when  our  sons  were  young.  It  was  one  of  their  favorites  and 
still  is.  M.P. 


2 

Tablespoons  butter  or 

1/4 

cup  onion,  finely  chopped 

margarine 

2 

Tablespoons  pure  cider 

2 

Tablespoons  brown  sugar 

vinegar 

3/4 

cup  tomato  catsup 

1 

Tablespoon  Worcestershire 

1 

Tablespoon  prepared  mustard 

sauce 

3/4 

cup  water 

1/2 

teaspoon  sah 

1/2 

cup  chopped  celery 

1 

pound  hot  dogs 

Cook  onions  in  butter  until  brown    Add  rest  of  ingredients  except  hot  dogs. 
Cook  over  moderate  heat  for  20  minutes  or  until  thickened    Place  hot  dogs  in 
sauce.  Cover  with  lid  and  cook  slowly  for  20  to  30  minutes.  Serve  hot,  on 
buns  if  desired    Most  delicious 

Lawrence  Proffitt,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


46 


Main  Dishes 


Ham  and  Sweet  Potato  Casserole 

1  1/2    pounds  cooked  ham  3    pounds  sweet  potatoes, 

1    8  1/4-ounce  can  sliced  cooked 

pineapple,  drained  1/2    cup  chopped  pecans 
3/4    cup  maple  syrup 

Cut  ham  into  slices.  Peel  and  thickly  slice  potatoes.  Arrange  alternate  slices  of 
potatoes  and  ham  in  a  9-inch  pie  pan  or  2-quart  shallow  casserole    Cut  sliced 
pineapple  into  halves;  tuck  into  casserole.  Sprinkle  nuts  over  surface.  Bake  in 
preheated  350  degree  oven  for  15  minutes    Pour  syrup  over  all.  Continue  to 
bake  1 5  to  20  minutes  more  or  until  hot  and  bubbly.  Makes  6  servings. 


Breakfast  Favorite 

Most  families,  whether  on  purpose  or  by  habit,  observe  certain  practices  at 
special  holiday  times    Our  Christmas  celebration  begins  with  my  husband  and 
me  preparing  brunch  for  our  three  sons,  their  wives,  and  our  grandchildren. 
This  egg  recipe  can  include  any  number  of  additional  or  varying  ingredients, 
but  I  think  there  would  be  rebellion  in  our  family  if  dad  prepared  it  any  way 
other  than  presented  here.  M.P. 

4  slices  bread,  cubed  1  cup  sharp  cheese,  grated 

1  pound  sausage  8  eggs 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

In  a  greased  9x1 3 -inch  baking  dish,  arrange  layers  of  bread  cubes,  cooked  and 
crumbled  sausage,  and  cheese.  Beat  together  eggs,  salt,  mustard,  and  milk. 
Pour  egg  mixture  over  bread  cubes.  Cover  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Bake, 
uncovered,  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  45  minutes.  Serves  8  to  10. 

DonPrqffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


47 


Main  Dishes 


Poultry 


Coq  au  Vin 

This  recipe  brings  back  memories  of  a  wonderful  visit  to  France  many  years 
ago  when  my  aunt  and  uncle  were  living  in  Orleans    M.D. 

1  cup  water  4    or  5  chicken  livers 
8    chicken  thighs,  skin  removed  3    Tablespoons  butter 

2  slices  or  1/2  cup  lean  salt  pork  1    Tablespoon  flour 
or  bacon                                          12    small  yellow  onions 

1  cup  chicken  broth  (2  bouillon  1    cup  of  good  Burgundy  wine 
cubes  in  a  cup  of  hot  water)  1    teaspoon  thyme 

2  laurel  leaves 

This  recipe  will  taste  better  if  prepared  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  served.  In  a 
small  saucepan,  bring  a  cup  of  water  to  boil  with  the  chicken  livers    Cook  2 
minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  set  aside.  In  a  large  sauce  pan,  melt  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  over  medium  heat.  Saute  the  small  pork  pieces,  the  onions 
(whole),  and  the  chicken.  While  the  chicken  is  cooking,  start  the  wine  sauce. 
In  a  small  pan,  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir 
well.  Slowly  add  the  wine  (at  room  temperature),  and  the  warm  chicken  broth. 
Slowly  bring  to  a  boil,  then  reduce  heat.  With  a  fork,  mash  the  liver  in  a  puree 
and  add  it  to  the  wine  sauce.  Add  thyme  and  laurel    Pour  sauce  over  chicken. 
Cover  and  simmer  for  1  hour. 

Jeannine  Moss,  Winston-Salem,  North  Carolina 


48 


Main  Dishes 


4 

chicken  breasts,  halved 

1 

1 

3 -ounce  can  mushrooms 

1/3 

'3 

cup  sherry 

1 

salt,  pepper,  paprika 

Baked  Chicken  with  Sour  Cream 

cup  sour  cream 
cup  slivered  almonds 
can  cream  of  mushroom 
soup 

Except  for  the  chicken  breasts,  combine  all  other  ingredients.  Pour  over  the 
chicken  breasts,  and  bake  uncovered  in  350  degree  oven  for  1  hour.  After  1 
hour,  turn  heat  lower  and  cover.  Cook  1  hour  longer. 


Chicken  Divan 


6 

whole  chicken  breasts. 

3 

packages  frozen  broccoli 

cooked 

1 

can  celery  soup 

1/4 

cup  milk 

1/4 

teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/2 

cup  mayonnaise 

1/2 

cup  heavy  cream 

3 

Tablespoons  sherry 

1 

teaspoon  Worcestershire 

1/2 

can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

sauce 

3/4    cup  Parmesan  cheese  1/2    cup  slivered  almonds 

Cook  broccoli  and  drain  well.    Heat  celery  soup,  milk,  nutmeg,  mayonnaise, 
cream,  sherry,  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  cream  of  chicken  soup    Cut  each 
cooked  chicken  breast  into  4  pieces.  Place  cooked  broccoli  in  baking  dish. 
Arrange  chicken  on  top  of  broccoli    Pour  sauce  over  all.  Sprinkle  Parmesan 
cheese  and  toasted  almond  slivers  on  top.  Heat  thoroughly  in  350  degree 
oven.  Serves  12. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


49 


Main  Dishes 


Chicken  a  la  Nell 

8    boneless  chicken  breasts  water 

salt,  pepper  1    can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1   jar  chopped  pimentos  butter  or  margarine 

bacon  bits  paprika 

Put  breasts,  inside  up,  in  a  baking  dish.  Add  enough  water  to  cover  bottom  of 
pan  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spoon  celery  soup  on  top.  Spread 
chopped  pimentos  over  chicken,  and  dot  with  butter  or  margarine.  Seal  with 
foil.  Bake  for  1  hour  in  a  375  degree  oven.  Uncover  and  baste.  Sprinkle 
paprika  on  top,  bake  another  1/2  hour,  and  baste  again.  Sprinkle  bacon  bits  on 
top.  Cover  again  to  keep  hot. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Marinated  Chicken  Breasts 

4    boneless  chicken  breasts,  1    16-ounce  bottle  French 

halved  dressing 

2    cans  whole  cranberry  sauce  1    package  onion  soup  mix 

Combine  last  3  ingredients.  Place  chicken  breasts  in  baking  dish.  Spread 
cranberry  mixture  over  chicken,  and  marinate  for  4  or  more  hours  before 
baking  in  a  400  degree  oven  for  1  to  1  1/4  hours.  Serve  over  cooked  noodles. 
(An  alternate  marinade  may  be  made  from  1  jar  of  apricot  jam  and  1  bottle  of 
Russian  dressing.) 

Eleanor  Cooke,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


50 


Main  Dishes 


Chicken  Pot  Pie 

1  whole  chicken  1    onion,  chopped 

2  chicken  bouUion  cubes  4    Tablespoons  margarine 
3  or  4    Tablespoons  flour                          1/2    cup  milk 

1  to  3    cups  chicken  broth  pastry 

Boil  whole  chicken  in  water  to  which  onion  and  chicken  boullion  cubes  have 
been  added    Bone  chicken,  and  leave  in  broth  to  keep  warm.  Melt  margarine 
in  heavy  skillet.  Add  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  flour  to  make  smooth  mixture    Stir 
in  milk.  Add  chicken  broth  to  mixture,  a  little  at  a  time.  Cook  over  low  heat 
until  smooth  and  a  little  thick.  Add  more  broth  if  needed    Remove  from  heat. 
Prepare  pastry  mix  (Martha  White's  Biscuit  Mix,  or  similar)  Divide  into  two 
parts  Roll  out  one  to  fit  deep  pie  dish.  Fill  dish  with  chicken    Cover  com- 
pletely with  gravy  mixture,  and  top  with  other  half  of  pastry.  Bake  15  to  25 
minutes  in  350  degree  oven  until  top  is  done. 


Chicken  or  Turkey  Casserole 


2 

cups  raw  spaghetti 

1/4 

cup  chopped  green  pepper 

1/2 

medium  onion,  chopped 

2 

cups  grated  sharp  cheese 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

1/4 

cup  sliced  pimento 

2 

cups  chicken  or  turkey 

1 

can  mushroom  soup. 

1/4 

cup  chicken  broth 

undiluted 

Break  spaghetti  into  2-inch  lengths.  Cook  and  drain  well.  Reserving  1/4  cup 
grated  cheese,  add  green  pepper,  onion,  cheese,  salt,  and  pimento  to  spaghetti 
Cut  chicken  or  turkey  into  2-inch  pieces,  and  along  with  mushroom  soup  and 
chicken  broth,  add  to  spaghetti  mixture.  Pour  into  baking  pan,  and  sprinkle 
1/4  cup  of  cheese  on  top    Bake  at  325  degrees  until  thoroughly  heated.  Can 
be  made  the  day  before  and  put  in  refrigerator. 


51 


Main  Dishes 


Easy  Chicken  "Pie" 

Jean  Ann  is  our  fifth  generation  Proflfitt  cook    Her  mother  "Corky"  and  her 
grandmother  Jeanne,  her  great-grandmother  Mae,  as  well  as  her  great-great- 
grandmother  Annie,  have  also  shared  recipes  with  us  for  this  book.  MP. 

4   boneless  chicken  breasts  1    can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1    can  cream  of  chicken  soup  1    can  chicken  broth  reserved 
1    can  peas,  drained  or  1  package  fi-om  cooking  chicken 

frozen,  uncooked  1    can  carrots,  drained 

sugar  to  taste 

Cook  chicken,  and  cut  into  bite-size  pieces.  Spread  over  bottom  of  13x9-inch 
pan  that  has  been  sprayed  with  Pam.  Sprinkle  peas  and  carrots  over  chicken. 
Mix  the  soups,  broth,  and  sugar,  and  pour  over  chicken  and  vegetables. 

Topping: 

1    cup  self-rising  flour  3/4    cup  milk 

1    stick  butter,  melted 

Combine  ingredients,  and  pour  over  chicken  and  vegetable  mixture.  Bake, 
uncovered,  for  45  minutes  in  a  400  degree  oven. 

Jean  Ann  Bailey,  Pearisburg,  Virginia 

Baked  Peanut  Butter  Chicken 

1    egg,  beaten  1/2  cup  peanut  butter 

1/2    cup  mayonnaise  1  Tablespoon  milk 

1    teaspoon  salt  6  pieces  chicken,  skinned 
wheat  germ 

Mix  peanut  butter,  mayonnaise,  milk,  and  salt  with  beaten  egg    Dip  chicken 
pieces  into  mixture;  roll  in  wheat  germ,  and  place  in  greased  baking  dish.  Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

52 


Main  Dishes 


Chicken  Cacciatore 


2 
1 

2 

1/4 
1 


pounds  boneless  chicken  breasts  2 
clove  garlic,  minced 

Tablespoons  pimento,  chopped  1 

teaspoon  dried  thyme  6 

cup  sliced  mushrooms  2 


small  green  peppers,  chopped 

salt  and  pepper 

bay  leaf 

sprigs  parsley,  chopped 

cups  stewed  tomatoes 


Combine  all  ingredients  in  sauce  pan.  Simmer  30  minutes    Uncover,  and 
continue  cooking  until  sauce  is  reduced  to  desired  consistency.  Serves  4 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Chicken  Cashew 


1/4 

cup  chopped  onion 

1 

cup  chopped  celery 

1 

Tablespoon  butter 

1 

can  mushroom  soup,  or  less 

1/2 

cup  chicken  broth 

1 

Tablespoon  soy  sauce 

3 

drops  Tabasco 

black  pepper 

2 

cups  diced  cooked  chicken 

1 

cup  chow  mein  noodles 

1/2 

cup  cashew  nuts 

Saute  onion  and  celery  in  butter.  Add  mushroom  soup,  chicken  broth,  soy 
sauce.  Tabasco,  pepper,  and  cooked  chicken.  Simmer  a  few  minutes    Pour 
into  1 -quart  casserole.  Sprinkle  top  with  chow  mein  noodles  and  cashew  nuts. 
Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  20  minutes    Serves  4    Can  be  frozen  without 
noodles  and  cashews.  If  frozen,  add  noodles  and  nuts  after  thawing  and  before 
baking. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


53 


Main  Dishes 


Chicken  Tetrazini 

My  children  loved  this  dish.  When  Mother  knew  we  were  coming  for  a  visit, 
she  would  prepare  the  tetrazini  and  freeze  it  in  casseroles,  in  anticipation  of  our 
visit    This  is  a  great  way  to  use  leftover  turkey  after  a  holiday.  M.D. 


2  boxes  1/4-inch  noodles 

4  cans  cream  of  chicken  soup 

2  cups  chicken  broth 

1  medium  onion,  or  onion  sah 

2  hens  or  4  fi7ers,  cooked 


4    cans  cream  of  mushroom 
soup 
1/2    pounds  grated  sharp  cheese 
1    clove  garlic,  or  garlic  salt 


Cook  noodles  and  drain.  Saute  garlic  and  onions  in  a  little  butter  Add  soups, 
broth,  and  1/2  of  cheese  to  onion  and  garlic.  Stir,  and  heat  until  smooth.  Add 
cut  up  chicken  and  noodles.  Put  in  family-size  casseroles  for  freezing.  Top 
with  other  half  of  cheese.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  until  it  bubbles  (about  20 
minutes). 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Curried  Chicken 


1 

large  chicken 

2 

Tablespoons  butter 

1/2 

cup  chopped  celery 

1 

onion,  sliced 

1 

Tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

2 

cups  chicken  stock 

2 

teaspoons  curry  powder 

1 

tomato,  chopped 

1 

tablespoon  cornstarch 

1/2 

cup  cream 

2 

cups  cooked  rice 

salt  to  taste 

small  dish  of  chutney 

1 

Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Boil  chicken  until  tender;  cut  into  pieces.  Brown  onion  in  butter;  add  celery, 
parsley,  salt,  curry  powder,  stock,  and  tomato.  Cook  slowly  for  30  minutes. 
Add  cornstarch  mixed  with  lemon  juice.  Add  the  cream  and  pieces  of  chicken. 
Reheat.  Serve  over  rice,  accompanied  by  dish  of  chutney. 


54 


Main  Dishes 


Seafood 


Baked  Stuffed  Shrimp 

Great  company  dish!  Can  be  prepared  earlier  in  the  day  and  refrigerated. 
Large  shrimp  do  just  as  well  as  the  jumbo  shrimp.  M.D. 


24 

raw  jumbo  shrimp, 
deveined 

shelled  and 

2 
1 

Tablespoons  butter 
small  onion,  minced 

1/4 
1 
1 

1/4 

cup  minced  celery 
Tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
teaspoon  sah 
teaspoon  thyme 
dash  Tabasco 

1/2 
1 
1 

1/2 

green  pepper,  minced 

pound  backfin  crabmeat 

teaspoon  Worcestershire 

sauce 

cup  seasoned  bread  crumbs 

1 
1 

egg,  beaten 
stick  butter 
paprika 

1 

cup  light  cream,  or 
milk 

Split  shrimp  lengthwise  so  they  can  be  opened  flat,  but  do  not  cut  all  the  way 
through    Spread  flat  in  buttered  shallow  baking  dish,  and  set  aside    In  the  2 
tablespoons  of  butter,  saute  onion,  celery,  and  green  pepper  until  onion  is  just 
transparent.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  parsley.  Toss  vegetable  mixture  with 
crabmeat.  Add  seasonings,  bread  crumbs,  egg,  and  cream    Toss  gently 
Mound  crab  mixture  on  shrimp.  Meh  the  stick  of  butter,  and  pour  over  the 
shrimp.  Sprinkle  with  paprika,  and  bake  at  400  degrees  for  15  minutes    This 
can  be  prepared  early  in  the  day.  If  so,  pour  butter  over  shrimp  just  before 
baking.  Makes  6  servings. 


55 


Main  Dishes 


Seafood  Casserole 


pound  lump  crabmeat 
quart  milk 
Tablespoons  flour 
Tablespoon  Worcestershire 


1    pound  shrimp 
1/2    stick  butter 
1/2   pound  grated  cheese 
salt  and  red  pepper 


sauce 


Cook,  and  peel  shrimp.  Cut  into  large  pieces,  and  set  aside    Make  thick  cream 
sauce  from  milk,  butter,  and  flour    Add  cheese,  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt,  and 
pepper  to  the  hot  cream  sauce.  Add  crab  and  shrimp.  Gently  fold  into  sauce. 
Bake  in  casserole  at  350  degrees  for  a  short  time    Top  with  grated  cheese  or 
cracker  crumbs. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Shrimp  Creole 


1 

pound  fresh  shrimp 

1  1/2 

teaspoons  salad  oil. 

'2 

cup  chopped  onions 

or  butter 

1 

clove  garlic,  chopped 

6 

medium  ripe  tomatoes 

2 

teaspoons  salt 

1/8 

teaspoon  pepper 

dash  cayenne  pepper 

2 

bay  leaves 

'2 

cup  green  pepper 

Peel  shrimp.    Heat  butter  (or  salad  oil)  in  skillet    Add  onions,  garlic,  and 
green  pepper  Cook  over  slow  heat,  stirring  occasionally   Peel  tomatoes,  and 
cut  into  quarters.  Add  to  the  above  mixture;  then  add  the  salt,  the  2  kinds  of 
pepper,  and  the  bay  leaves.  Cook  over  moderate  heat  for  10  minutes    Add 
shrimp,  cover,  and  cook  for  8  to  10  minutes.  Remove  bay  leaves  and  serve 
over  steamed  rice. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington.  North  Carohna 


56 


Main  Dishes 


Shrimp  Scampi 


24 


large  shrimp,  shelled 

and  deveined 
6    cloves  gariic,  crushed 
1    teaspoon  red  pepper  (optional) 


1    cup  lemon  juice 

1    cup  olive  oil 

1    teaspoon  chopped  parsley 


Wash  shrimp  in  cold  water   Dry,  and  arrange  in  pan.  Mix  the  rest  of  the 
ingredients,  and  pour  over  shrimp    Let  stand  overnight  in  refrigerator   Next 
day,  remove  shrimp  from  marinade,  place  on  broiler  pan,  and  broil  until  brown. 
Heat  1/4  cup  of  the  marinade  to  pour  over  shrimp  when  done. 


Crabmeat  au  Gratin 


5 

Tablespoons  butter 

3 

Tablespoons  flour 

1 

cup  milk 

1 

cup  chicken  bouUion 

1 

egg,  well  beaten 

2 

Tablespoons  sherry 

1 

teaspoon  salt 

1/4 

teaspoon  black  pepper 

dash  Tabasco 

1 

Tablespoon  Worcestershire 

1 

pound  white  lump  crabmeat 

sauce 

1 

cup  Cheddar  cheese, 

grated 

Make  a  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk,  bouUion,  and  egg.  Remove  from 
heat,  add  wine,  sah,  pepper.  Tabasco,  and  Worcestershire  sauce    Add  crab 
meat  to  white  sauce,  and  put  in  1  1/2  quart  casserole     Sprinkle  with  cheese. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes  or  until  bubbly  brown. 


57 


Main  Dishes 


Seafood  Kebab 

This  is  good  served  over  rice  or  pasta  with  a  salad  and  French  bread  or  rolls. 
Jim  enjoys  preparing  this  for  company  and  always  gets  compliments    The 
amount  and  variety  of  the  seafood  can  be  adjusted  according  to  personal 
preference.  M.D. 


butter  or  margarine 

red  wine  vinegar  dressing 

celery  salt 

lemon  pepper  seasoning 

lemon  juice 

green  peppers 

onions  (fresh  or  jar) 

tomatoes  (cherry  if  available) 

mushrooms  (optional) 


3    medium  shrimp  per  person 
3    medium  scallops  per  person 
3    2-inch  pieces  of  fish  per 

person 
3    clams  or  oysters  per  person 


Use  a  large,  flat  pan  with  deep  sides.  Line  with  heavy-duty  aluminum  foil. 
Butter  the  foil  very  thoroughly.  Prepare  the  vegetables.  If  using  fresh  onions, 
peel  and  cut  into  quarters.  If  using  processed  onions,  soak  in  vermouth  until 
ready  to  use.  Drain.  Cut  large  tomatoes  in  half  Boil  the  fresh  onions  and 
peppers  for  5  minutes.  Peel  the  shrimp,  and  cut  the  fish  into  pieces    Arrange  a 
single  layer  of  seafood  and  vegetables  in  the  pan.  Sprinkle  wine  vinegar 
dressing,  celery  sah,  lemon  juice,  and  lemon  pepper  over  the  arrangement. 
Broil  until  seafood  is  cooked.  If  the  oven  is  hot,  it  takes  about  10  to  15  min- 
utes. Don't  overcook. 

JimDarden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


58 


Main  Dishes 


Crab  Souffle 

1    pound  crabmeat  8    slices  white  bread 

Miracle  Whip  celery 

salt  red  pepper 

4    eggs  2    cups  milk 

1    can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  1    cup  grated  sharp  Cheddar 

cheese 

Spread  butter  on  4  slices  of  bread    Trim  crusts  from  bread,  and  cut  into  cubes 
Grease  bottom  of  1  lx9-inch  baking  dish    Spread  the  bread  cubes  on  bottom  of 
dish.  Make  salad  with  crab,  Miracle  Whip,  celery,  sah,  and  red  pepper   Butter, 
trim,  and  cube  the  other  4  slices  of  bread,  spread  on  top  of  crab  salad    Beat 
eggs  with  milk,  and  pour  over  entire  casserole    Cover   Refrigerate  12  to  24 
hours    Uncover   Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  15  minutes    Remove  from 
oven,  spread  on  mushroom  soup,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese    Return  to 
oven.  Bake  for  1  hour,  cut  into  squares,  and  serve  immediately   Makes  8  to  10 
servings. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Crab  and  Shrimp  Casserole 


1 

clove  garlic,  chopped 

2 

Tablespoons  butter 

2 

Tablespoons  flour 

1 

cup  milk 

sah  and  pepper  to  taste 

6 

dashes  Tabasco 

2 

Tablespoons  Worcestershire 

1/2 

pound  crabmeat 

sauce 

1/4 

pound  sharp  cheese,  grated 

1 

pound  shrimp,  peeled 

In  a  saucepan,  saute  garlic  in  butter    Add  all  ingredients  except  cheese   Place 
in  a  2-quart  greased  casserole,  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese    Bake  at  400 
degrees  for  20  minutes. 


59 


Main  Dishes 


Deviled  Crab 

Mother  often  served  this  in  scallop  shells    It  also  can  be  served  in  a  casserole 
or  ramekins    1  have  served  it  in  a  chafing  dish  with  miniature  pastry  shells  for  a 
buflfet    Regardless  of  how  this  crab  dish  is  served,  it  is  delicious  and  was  one 
of  Mother's  favorites     M.D. 


2 

Tablespoons  butter 

2 

1/2  Tablespoons  flour 

1 

small  can  evaporated  milk 

water 

2 

cups  crabmeat 

1 

teaspoon  sah 

'4 

teaspoon  paprika 

dash  cayenne  pepper 

2 

Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1 

cup  buttered  bread  crumbs 

1 

teaspoon  Worcestershire 
sauce 

lor  2 

hard  boiled  eggs 

Sprinkle  the  lemon  juice,  salt,  paprika,  and  cayenne  pepper  on  the  crabmeat, 
and  set  aside    Make  white  sauce  of  flour,  butter,  and  milk  to  which  enough 
water  has  been  added  to  make  1  1/2  cups  liquid.    Add  Worcestershire  sauce 
and  chopped  hard  boiled  eggs.  Add  crabmeat  to  sauce.  Pour  in  buttered 
casserole,  top  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  15  to  18  min- 
utes. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Crabmeat  Casserole 

11/4    cups  cooked  crabmeat  1    can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1/4    cup  milk  1/4    cup  salad  dressing 

1    cup  cooked  rice  Cheddar  cheese,  shredded 

Heat  (do  not  boil)  soup,  milk,  and  salad  dressing    Add  crabmeat  and  rice.  Mix 
well    Pour  into  casserole  dish,  sprinkle  cheese  on  top    Bake  at  350  degrees 
until  bubbly,  approximately  20  minutes.  Serves  6. 


60 


Main  Dishes 


Maryland  Crabcakes 

3    pounds  crabmeat  1  1/2    cups  cracker  crumbs 
6    Tablespoons  mayonnaise  3    Tablespoons  prepared 

3    eggs,  beaten  mustard 

3    Tablespoons  parsley,  chopped  1    Tablespoon  Worcestershire 

butter  sauce 

Mix  crabmeat  with  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  mayonnaise,  mustard,  eggs,  parsley, 
and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Blend  this  carefiilly  with  crabmeat.  Form  into 
patties    Refrigerate.  When  ready  to  serve,  pan  fry  in  butter  (or  oil)  until 
golden  brown.  Drain  on  paper  towels.  Serves  8.  Can  use  1  pound  crabmeat 
and  reduce  other  ingredients  by  one-third    Leftovers  make  good  crabcake 
sandwiches  the  next  day! 

Mary  Stewart  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Scalloped  Oysters 

1  pint  shucked  oysters  2    cups  cracker  crumbs 

1/2  teaspoon  salt  pepper  to  taste 

1/2  cup  melted  butter  dash  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  cup  milk 

Crumble  enough  saltine  crackers  to  make  2  cups.  Combine  cracker  crumbs, 
salt,  pepper,  and  melted  butter.  Place  a  layer  of  this  mixture  in  the  bottom  of  a 
casserole.  Cover  with  oysters.  Repeat  layers  until  all  of  the  oysters  are  used. 
Add  Worcestershire  sauce  to  milk  and  pour  over  layered  mixture    Bake  at  350 
degrees  about  30  minutes. 


61 


Main  Dishes 

Oysters 

au 

Gratin 

1    quart  oysters,  undrained 

1/4    cup  butter 

1/4    cup  flour 

1/2   teaspoon  salt 

1/4   teaspoon  pepper 

1/8    teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/2    cup  cream 

serving  shells,  buttered 

cracker  crumbs 

grated  cheese 

Bring  oysters  to  boiling  point  in  own  liquor,  drain,  save  the  liquid    Beat  butter 
to  a  cream,  add  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Beat  until  smooth.  Gradually 
dilute  with  one  cup  of  warm  oyster  liquid.  Return  to  saucepan,  and  as  soon  as 
the  sauce  boils,  add  cream.  Return  liquid  to  boil,  and  add  oysters.  Pour  into 
shells,  cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs,  top  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  at 
375  degrees  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


Tuna  Fish  Noodles 


1 

small  package  noodles 

1    can  mushroom  soup 

3 

hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped 

1    can  tuna  fish 

1/2 

cup  milk 

pimento  or  green  pepper 

bread  crumbs 

butter 

Heat  soup  and  milk  in  saucepan.    Add  chopped  eggs,  cooked  noodles,  tuna 
fish,  and  a  little  pimento  or  green  pepper.  Mix  gently   Pour  in  greased  baking 
dish,  dot  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs    Bake  in  350  degree 
oven  for  20  minutes 


Cooking  Fish 

To  cook  fish  with  less  odor,  squeeze  lemon  juice  on  the  cleaned  fish  and  chill  in 
the  refi"igerator  an  hour  before  cooking. 


62 


hdain  Dishes 


Baked  Rock  Fish 

Wouldn't  you  think  that  having  lived  near  the  water  most  of  my  life,  1  would 
automatically  be  a  lover  of  all  kinds  of  seafood?  Maybe,  but  with  few  excep- 
tions, this  has  not  proved  to  be  true  in  my  case    My  grandfather  owned  oyster 
beds  on  the  Elizabeth  River  when  I  was  a  child,  but  I  can't  remember  having 
even  tasted  an  oyster  until  well  into  my  adult  years.  In  fact,  I  don't  remember 
wanting  to  taste  shellfish  of  any  kind  until  I  became  old  enough  to  realize  that  I 
must  be  missing  something    As  for  fish,  I  remember  getting  excited  about 
eating  fried  spot  but  easily  being  able  to  pass  up  flounder.  Today  I  still  get 
excited  about  fried  spot  but,  of  course,  shouldn't  eat  things  fried.  Unlike  most 
folks,  the  fishier  the  taste  of  the  fish,  the  better  I  like  them.  One  real  favorite 
of  mine  was,  and  is,  baked  rock  fish,  "the  way  Mother  used  to  make  it."     MP. 

Tablespoons  flour 
medium  onion,  chopped 
cup  crackers,  crumbled 
cups  water  or  more 


Clean  fish;  rub  inside  and  out  with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour   Place  in  large  baking 
dish.  Put  half  of  chopped  onion  inside  of  fish  and  half  on  top    Mix  vinegar 
with  water,  and  pour  into  dish.  (Water  should  be  about  1/2  inch  deep  )  Cut 
bacon  into  small  pieces,  and  fiy.  Pour  drippings  with  fried  bacon  pieces  over 
fish.  Sprinkle  crumbled  crackers  on  top    Bake  in  350  degree  oven  until  fish  is 
done    Baste  often  during  baking. 

Alice  Heath  Taylor,  Norfolk,  Virginia 


salt 

2 

pepper 
4  to  5    slices  bacon 

1 

1/2 

1    teaspoon  vinegar 

1    3-  to  4-pound  rock  fish 

1  1/2 

63 


Main  Dishes 


Baked  Flounder 

4    flounder  fillets  1    large  onion,  sliced 

4    strips  bacon  3    medium  potatoes 

water 

Arrange  fillets  in  bottom  of  buttered  casserole.  Place  onion  slices  on  fillets, 
and  top  each  with  a  bacon  strip.  Add  chunky  potatoes  which  have  been  par- 
boiled. Add  a  little  water.  Cover  with  foil,  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  about 
20  minutes. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Salmon  Cakes 


1 

can  salmon 

1    egg,  slightly  beaten 

1 

teaspoon  parsley  flakes 

1    Tablespoon  onion,  minced 

2 

Tablespoons  cracker  crumbs. 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

crushed 

flour 

2 

Tablespoons  vegetable  oil 

milk,  if  needed 

Flake  salmon.  Blend  in  beaten  egg,  parsley  flakes,  onion,  crushed  crackers, 
sah,  and  pepper   If  mixture  is  too  dry,  add  a  little  milk    Form  into  patties,  and 
coat  with  flour.  Refiigerate  if  there  is  time  (about  1  hour)    Heat  oil  in  flying 
pan,  and  cook  until  golden  brown 

Alice  Heath  Taylor,  Norfolk,  Virginia 


64 


Main  Dishes 


For  the  Grill 


Beef  Kebab 

11/2    pounds  beef  round,  cubed  2  Tablespoons  steak  sauce 

1/2    cup  catsup  2  Tablespoons  cider  vinegar 

2    Tablespoons  Worcestershire  1/4  cup  water 

sauce  1  teaspoon  salt 

2    Tablespoons  oil  2  Tablespoons  sugar 
tomato,  green  pepper,  onions 

Place  all  ingredients  except  meat  and  vegetables  in  a  sauce  pan,  heat  to  boiling. 
Pour  over  meat,  and  let  stand  several  hours  or  overnight.  String  on  skewers, 
alternating  meat  cubes  with  onion,  green  pepper  pieces,  and  unskinned  tomato 
wedges    Grill  over  a  good  bed  of  coals    Baste  by  brushing  with  reheated 
marinade.  Use  remaining  liquid  for  sauce  when  serving    Makes  4  servings. 


Fish  Supreme 

1    stick  butter  1    cup  barbecue  sauce 

wine  garhc  salt 

fresh  tuna  fillets 

Combine  butter,  barbecue  sauce,  wine,  and  garlic  sah  in  sauce  pan,  and  heat 
until  butter  meUs    Place  fish  on  grill    Baste  often  with  sauce    Cook  20  to  30 
minutes  or  until  fish  is  white  throughout.  Turn  as  often  as  needed. 

Jim  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


65 


Mam  Dishes 


Bluefish 

Our  son  Michael  has  been  a  real  fisherman  since  he  was  about  five  years  old. 
This  bluefish  recipe  comes  with  a  great  (fish)  story  about  two  fi-iends  returning 
home  fi"om  a  fishing  trip,  an  abandoned  gill  netter's  truck,  two  80-quart  coolers 
filled  with  one  to  two-pound  blues,  and  two  tired  but  contented  fi"iends  sleep- 
ing under  the  stars,  lulled  by  the  steady  boom  of  waves  on  the  moonlit  sand  of 
the  Outer  Banks.  He  likes  to  call  it  his  "Taylor  Blues"  story   M.P. 

1    1  to  2-pound  fresh  bluefish  1    large  white  onion,  sliced 

1    green  pepper,  sliced  1    hunk  of  butter 

salt  and  pepper  beer 

Roll  out  a  piece  of  aluminum  foil  twice  as  long  as  it  is  wide.  Put  the  bluefish 
longways  on  the  sheet,  and  fold  it  vertically  all  around  him.  Drop  on  the  hunk 
of  butter,  shake  on  the  salt  and  pepper   Top  with  onion  and  green  pepper 
slices,  and  pour  on  the  last  sip  of  beer  fi'om  the  currently  opened  can    Fold 
down  the  foil,  and  for  good  measure,  wrap  him  again  so  the  beer  doesn't  leak 
out    Put  him  on  a  hot  fire  for  about  10  minutes,  flip  him  over,  and  by  the  time 
your  newly  opened  beer  is  about  half  done,  so  is  the  fish.  My  affection  for  this 
meal  is  most  likely  tied  to  my  memory  of  that  adventurous  night,  but  it  is  the 
kind  offish  story  that  would  make  you  want  to  go  out  and  try  it  again. 

Michael  Taylor  Projfitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Helpful  Tip 

To  prevent  sticking  and  for  ease  in  cleaning,  spray  grill  rack  with  non-stick 
vegetable  spray  before  cooking. 


66 


Main  Dishes 


Shrimp  on  the  Grill 

1/3  cup  lime  juice  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

1/4  teaspoon  pepper  1/3  cup  olive  oil 

2  Tablespoons  orange  juice  1  clove  garlic,  minced 

1  jalapeno  pepper,  optional  2  Tablespoons  cilantro, 

1  pound  large  shrimp,  peeled  chopped 

Combine  above  ingredients  except  the  shrimp  into  a  sauce.  Brush  on  shrimp  as 
they  cook  on  the  grill. 

Barbecued  Chicken 

1/3    cup  vinegar  2/3    cup  water 

juice  of  1/2  lemon  1    Tablespoon  brown  sugar 

dash  Tabasco  1/2    stick  margarine 

sah  pepper 
1    chicken,  split 

Make  sauce  on  top  of  stove  using  above  ingredients     Arrange  chicken  on 
grill.  Baste  and  turn  frequently  until  done. 


Baked  Chicken  for  the  Grill 

1    chicken,  whole  2    Tablespoons  honey 

1    Tablespoon  Heinz  57  Sauce 

Place  chicken  on  rack  in  shallow  baking  pan    Cover  with  foil,  and  place  on 
grill  or  use  grill  lid  to  cover  chicken.  Combine  honey  and  Heinz  57,  baste 
chicken  during  last  15  minutes  of  cooking. 

Don  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


67 


Main  Dishes 


Good  Grilled  Burgers 


1  pound  ground  turkey  1/4 

2  Tablespoons  Worcestershire  2 
sauce  1 

1    teaspoon  prepared  mustard 
pepper 


cup  onion,  chopped 
Tablespoons  catsup 
Tablespoon  horseradish 
salt 


Combine  all  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Shape  into  4  patties.  Cook  on  grill  over 
hot  coals  or  medium  heat.  Cook  until  done  but  not  dry. 


Barbecued  Spare  Ribs 


1 

onion,  finely  chopped 

2 

Tablespoons  Worcestershire 

1/2 

cup  water 

sauce 

salad  oil 

1/4 

cup  brown  sugar 

1/4 

cup  lemon  juice 

1 

8-ounce  can  tomato  sauce 

2 

Tablespoons  prepared 

salt  and  pepper 

mustard 

4 

pounds  spare  ribs  or 
back  ribs 

Cook  ribs  on  grill  rack  over  slow  coals,  turning  often    In  a  saucepan,  brown 
onions  in  oil  until  tender.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  simmer  for  1 5  to  20 
minutes.  Baste  ribs  with  sauce  during  the  last  20  minutes  of  cooking  time. 


68 


igg(«aHai>ii3saH;<g.jras!s 


and  Q7a 


(ucoeA 


■i7>,ja 


:^^-:*^5^^^^ 


k»  ^tfsio'  «ic^  ^^Oi  ^aA>"^ 


i 


Cottage  at  Emerald  Isle 

/  have  always  enjoyed  the  beach  and  have  many  fond 

memories  of  family  vacations  at  Emerald  Isle,  N.C. 

The  drawing  of  the  cottage  by  my  daughter  reminds 

us  of  Emerald  Isle.  —  M.D. 


PICKLES,  RELISHES,  AND  SAUCES 

Pickles 


Bread  and*  Butter  Cucumber  Pickles 

One  of  my  early  childhood  memories  is  of  spending  summers  in  Charlotte  at 
my  grandfather's  house    I  remember  the  women  in  the  kitchen  making  pickles 
with  the  cucumbers  from  the  garden    I  don't  know  how  many  people  make 
pickles  today,  but  I'm  sure  it  must  be  easier  in  an  air-conditioned  kitchen! 
MD 


1 

gallon  cukes 

8 

small  onions 

1/2 
5 
1 

1/2 

cup  sah 
cups  sugar 

Tablespoon  celery  seed 
teaspoon  cloves 

5 
3 

1    1/2 

cups  vinegar 

Tablespoons  white  mustard 

seed 

teaspoons  tumeric 

Sprinkle  sah  over  cukes  and  onions  that  have  been  cut  into  1/2-inch  slices 
Soak  in  ice  cubes  for  3  hours    Drain,  and  dry  thoroughly  on  towels    Combine 
remaining  ingredients,  bring  to  a  boil    Add  dried  cukes  and  onions,  and  again 
bring  to  a  boil    Immediately  put  into  airtight  jars,  and  seal 

^j.  Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroUna 


W  Pickled  Nasturtiums 

Gather  them  young;  lay  them  in  salt  and  water  one  night    Drain,  then  cover 
with  hot  vinegar,  boiled  with  a  little  black  and  Jamaica  pepper   A  couple  of 
capsicums  put  into  the  jar  will  be  a  great  improvement    (Comment:  A  capsi- 
cum is  a  kind  of  pepper ) 


71 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Sweet  Pickles 


5    cups  sugar 

4   1/2 

3/4    cups  vinegar 

4   1/2 

3    Tablespoons  salt 

1 

1 5    cucumbers 

teaspoons  celery  seed 
teaspoons  tumeric 
teaspoon  mustard  seed 


Scrub  cucumbers,  and  slice  into  1/2-inch  pieces.  Place  in  a  large  container,  and 
cover  with  boiling  water   Leave  overnight.  Next  morning,  drain  cucumbers, 
and  put  in  jars.  (15  cucumbers  cut  in  1/2-inch  slices  should  fill  4  wide-mouth 
quart  jars)  Combine  remaining  ingredients.  Boil  for  5  minutes.  Pour  over 
slices  in  jars,  and  seal    Place  in  a  canner  or  large  pot,  and  boil  5  minutes  in  a 
hot  water  bath.  (Janie  says  her  boys  like  these  even  better  than  Company  Best 
pickles.) 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Sweet-Tart  Pickles 

1    large  jar  whole,  dill  pickles  white  vinegar 

sugar 

Drain  pickles,  and  rinse  several  times  in  cold  water.   Slice  each  pickle  length- 
wise into  8  pieces.  Put  pickles  in  jar,  add  sugar  —  about  1  1/2  cups  for  1- 
quart  jar   Put  on  lid,  and  shake.  Fill  jar  2/3  full  with  vinegar,  put  on  lid  and 
shake  until  sugar  is  dissolved    Sample  liquid,  and  add  more  vinegar  or  sugar 
according  to  taste    Store  in  refiigerator  for  3  days.  Taste  pickles    If  pickles 
are  not  sweet  enough,  pour  off  some  of  the  liquid,  and  add  more  sugar.  Wait 
another  3  days,  and  taste  again.  Continue  until  pickles  are  crisp  and  sweet.  If 
pickles  are  cut  in  sHces  lengthwise  instead  of  in  wedges,  they  fit  nicely  on 
sandwiches  and  taste  wonderfijl    Juice  from  pickles  may  be  used  again,  but  a 
little  more  sugar  and  vinegar  may  need  to  be  added 

Jeanne  Miller  Proffitt,  Pearisbtirg,  Virginia 


72 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Universal  Pickles 

6 

1 

quarts  vinegar 
ounce  cloves 

1    pound  salt,  or  less 
1    ounce  allspice 

1 
1 
1 

ounce  ginger 

Tablespoon  cayenne  pepper 
ounce  tumeric  powder 
brown  sugar 
other  vegetables 

1    ounce  black  pepper 
1    pound  mustard 

vinegar 

cucumbers 

Combine  vinegar,  sah,  cloves,  allspice,  ginger,  black  pepper,  and  cayenne 
pepper,  and  boil  for  5  minutes    When  cool,  add  the  mustard  and  the  tumeric, 
which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  vinegar.  Add  brown  sugar  to  taste. 
Add  cucumbers  and  other  tender  vegetables.  Use  stone  jar. 


^p   Virginia  Damson  Pickles 

To  five  pounds  damsons  allow  five  pounds  of  sugar  and  two  and  one-half  pints 
vinegar   Take  the  vinegar  and  put  to  it  two  ounces  mace,  one  ounce  cinnamon 
and  one  ounce  cloves    Let  it  come  to  a  boil  and  pour  over  the  fixiit  and  sugar; 
cover  close.  Turn  oflFand  scald  the  syrup  for  six  successive  days;  the  seventh 
day  let  fiaiit,  spices  and  all  come  to  a  boil.  It  will  keep  for  years. 


Pickled  Peppers 


Cut  out  the  stem  of  the  peppers  in  a  circle,  and  wash  out  in  cold  water,  then  fill 
each  with  a  mixture  of  finely-chopped  cabbage,  horseradish,  cucumbers  and 
mustard  seed;  then  replace  the  pieces  cut  fi-om  the  top  and  sew  around  with 
coarse  thread.  Pack  in  stone  jars  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 


73 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Watermelon  Rind  Pickles 

7  pounds  rind  7  pounds  sugar 

1  quart  vinegar  1  box  ginger  root 

1  box  whole  cloves  1  box  cinnamon  bark 

1  box  Lilly's  lime 

Cover  rinds  in  lime  water,  and  soak  overnight    In  the  morning,  rinse  thor- 
oughly, and  cook  until  tender  in  clear  water  with  ginger  root  that  has  been 
wrapped  in  a  cloth.  Rinds  are  tender  when  they  can  be  pricked  with  a  fork. 
Drain.  Make  a  syrup  of  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices    The  spices  should  be 
wrapped  in  cloth.  Add  1  to  1  1/2  cups  water  to  the  vinegar  mixture  if  it  is  too 
strong    Cook  rind  in  syrup  until  syrup  becomes  as  thick  as  you  like  it. 

Anme  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Relishes 
Chow  Chow  (1939) 


4 

quarts  cabbage 

2 

quarts  green  tomatoes 

1 

quart  onions 

1 

dozen  green  peppers 

hot  pepper  to  taste 

3 

pints  vinegar 

1/2 

pounds  white  sugar 

1 

cup  flour 

1 

Tablespoon  tumeric 

2 

Tablespoons  dry  mustard 

1 

Tablespoon  celery  seeds 

3 

Tablespoons  salt 

Add  sugar  and  celery  seeds  to  2  cups  of  the  vinegar,  and  boil    Make  a  smooth 
paste  of  the  flour,  tumeric,  mustard,  and  the  last  cup  of  vinegar.  Mix  into  hot 
vinegar  mixture,  and  cook  a  few  minutes    Add  vegetables,  let  boil  20  minutes, 
and  can. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


74 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Pepper  Relish 


1    dozen  red  peppers 
1    dozen  onions 

vinegar  to  cover 
1    teaspoon  salt 

Bring  to  a  boil.  Seal  up. 


dozen  green  peppers 
hot  peppers  to  taste 
cup  brown  sugar 


Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Salad  Preparation 


1  dozen  green  peppers 

2  onions 

1    cup  vinegar 


4   dozen  red  peppers 
2    spoonfuls  sugar 


Boil  5  minutes,  and  can  for  use  in  winter  for  making  salads. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


^    Picollilly 


Four  quarts  each  of  cut  cucumbers,  beans  and  cabbage  Two  quarts  each  of 
cut  peppers  and  onions  and  four  quarts  each  of  celery  and  nasturtiums  Pour 
on  boiling  vinegar,  flavored  strongly  with  mustard,  mustard  seed  and  ground 
cloves 


75 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Sauces 


Chili  Sauce 


1 

1/2 
1 
1 
1 


dozen  ripe  tomatoes 
dozen  onions 
Tablespoon  allspice 
Tablespoon  nutmeg 
cup  sugar 


dozen  green  tomatoes 
red  pepper  to  taste 
Tablespoon  cloves 
Tablespoons  salt 
quart  vinegar 


Combine  tomatoes,  onions,  and  red  pepper   Cook  about  2  hours.  Add  all- 
spice, cloves,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  sugar   Cook  until  very  thick.  Add  vinegar,  and 
remove  from  fire.  Bottle  when  cool  enough. 

Annie  Havre II  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Tomato  Catsup 


One-half  bushel  ripe  tomatoes  cut  in  halves,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  leave  them 
overnight    Drain  off  the  juice,  add  one  pint  of  water,  and  stew  slowly  in  a  large 
kettle  till  quite  soft.  Then  put  through  a  colander  to  free  from  skins.  Return  to 
the  kettle  and  add  one  capful  of  salt,  one-half  ounce  cayerme  pepper,  one 
ounce  powdered  cloves,  one  ounce  each  of  nutmeg  and  mace.  Simmer  slowly 
for  two  or  three  hours,  and  add,  when  nearly  cooked,  one  bottle  of  cooking 
wine    When  quite  cold,  bottle  and  cork  tight. 


76 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Fondue  Sauces 

The  following  three  recipes  were  given  to  me  by  a  friend,  Judy  Ward,  several 
years  ago.  My  husband  and  I  spent  many  wonderful,  fun-filled  evenings  with 
Judy  and  Tom  Ward    We  would  spend  hours  around  the  dinner  table  with  a 
salad,  a  loaf  of  French  bread,  a  plate  of  beef  cubes,  these  delicious  sauces,  a 
fondue  pot,  and  plenty  of  conversation.  We  still  have  the  fondue  pot  and  forks, 
and  one  of  these  days  Jim  and  I  hope  to  sit  around  the  dinner  table  with  the 
Wards  and  talk  about  old  times  while  dipping  into  these  sauces  M  D. 


Sweet  and  Sour 

1  cup  sugar 
1/2    cup  water 

2  teaspoons  cornstarch 


1/2    cup  white  vinegar 
1/2   teaspoon  sah 
1    Tablespoon  cold  water 


Combine  sugar,  vinegar,  water,  and  salt.  Simmer  5  minutes    Add  cornstarch 
that  has  been  mixed  in  cold  water   Cook  and  stir  until  mixture  thickens. 


Garlic  Butter 

1    stick  butter 


1    clove  garlic 


Melt  butter  very  slowly.  Add  finely  chopped  garlic,  and  simmer  for  about  5 
minutes 


Gaucho 

1    cup  catsup 
3    dashes  Tabasco 
1/4    cup  vinegar 
1    teaspoon  sah 


1    Tablespoon  Worcestershire 

sauce 
1    Tablespoon  sugar 


Combine  ingredients,  and  simmer  for  30  minutes. 

Judy  Ward,  Tarboro,  North  Carolina 


11 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Barbecue 

When  anyone  mentions  REAL  barbecue,  I  recall  an  occasion  during  a  family 
visit  to  a  friend's  farm  in  Martin  County,  North  Carolina    My  father  grew  up 
in  Martin  County  but  moved  to  Norfolk  in  the  1920's.  There  was  one  special 
friend  near  Hassell  whose  family  always  welcomed  us  into  their  home. 

On  one  extended  weekend  visit,  my  dad  and  his  friend  decided  that  some 
barbecue  would  taste  mighty  good,  and  in  what  seemed  no  time  at  all,  a 
healthy  size  pig  was  selected  for  the  feast    In  good  time,  it  was  cleaned, 
skewered,  and  ready  for  roasting.  Under  a  shelter  near  the  barn,  a  pit  was  dug 
and  the  bottom  was  lined  with  hot  coals    The  cooking  began  during  the  chilly, 
dark  hours  of  night,  but  the  heat  from  the  pit  kept  the  men  warm.  By  the  time 
we  children  were  up  and  stirring,  the  meat  was  brovming  to  perfection.  The 
aroma  was  hard-to-wait  tempting,  but  we  knew  that  REAL  barbecue  couldn't 
be  hurried.  Finally,  after  just  the  right  number  of  hours,  the  confection  was 
sizzling  juicily  to  let  the  cooks  know  that  it  was  done  through  and  through. 

The  now  succulent  pig  was  moved  to  a  large  table  that  had  been  scrubbed 
shining  clean.  There,  the  carving,  chopping,  and  final  seasoning  took  place.  It 
was  hard  work,  but  soon  there  was  such  an  inviting  scent  in  the  air  that  we  on- 
lookers were  not  above  snitching  a  taste  or  two  to  voice  our  expert  opinions. 
And,  by  the  way,  let  me  tell  you  that  not  even  for  a  split  second  was  a  tomato- 
type  barbecue  sauce  considered  for  seasoning  on  this  pig.  Not  in  this  part  of 
North  Carolina! 

After  the  last  of  the  coals  had  died  out  and  the  taste-testers  had  declared  the 
barbecue  to  ht  perfect,  the  delectable  treasure  was  divided  among  those  who 
had  helped  in  any  way  with  its  preparation    There  was  plenty  for  all. 

This  event  is  one  of  my  favorite  things  to  recall  from  those  days  of  long  ago 
The  memory  of  it  has  always  served  well  to  let  me  know  when  I'm  eating 
REAL  NORTH  CAROLINA  BARBECUE!  MR 


78 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Barbecue  Sauce  No.  1 

Our  friends  in  North  Carolina  no  longer  keep  hogs  on  their  farm,  so  their 
barbecuing  is  done  on  a  much  smaller  scale.  MP. 

1    fresh  pork  shoulder  or  ham  hot  pepper  vinegar 

black  pepper  cayenne  pepper 

sak 

To  make  hot  pepper  vinegar,  finely  chop  hot  peppers,  and  let  soak  in  vinegar 
for  about  2  weeks    (Peppers  may  be  included  in  the  sauce  or  may  be  removed 
from  the  vinegar  before  mixing  with  the  cooked  pork.)  Bake  the  fresh  pork 
ham  or  shoulder   Remove  meat  from  the  bone,  chop,  and  season  with  sauce 
made  from  pepper  vinegar,  black  pepper,  cayenne  pepper,  and  salt. 

Selma  Jean  Everett,  Hassell,  North  Carohna 

Barbecue  Sauce  No.  2 

1/3    cup  vinegar  2/3    cup  water 

juice  of  1/2  lemon  1    Tablespoon  brown  sugar 

1/2    stick  margarine  Tabasco 

salt  pepper 

Combine  ingredients,  and  simmer  until  flavors  meld 

Barbecue  Sauce  No.  3 

1  pint  apple  cider  vinegar  1  Tablespoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  pepper  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper 

1  Tablespoon  prepared  mustard  2  Tablespoons  catsup 

1  teaspoon  paprika  1  Tablespoon  fresh  lemon  juice 

Mix  all  ingredients,  and  bring  to  a  boil  over  low  heat.  Stir  constantly   Remove 
from  heat  and  strain.  Cool. 


79 


Pickles,  Relishes,  and  Sauces 


Shrimp  Sauce 

Every  summer  from  the  late  1960's  until  the  late  1970's,  we  would  have  a  small 
family  reunion  at  Atlantic  Beach  or  Emerald  Isle.  My  parents  and  Mother's 
sister  would  rent  a  house  for  a  week  at  the  beach    My  uncle  and  aunt  would 
have  a  house  close  by.  All  of  us  have  wonderful  memories  of  those  summers. 
Everyone  always  looked  forward  to  Uncle  Robert's  sauce  and  the  North 
Carolina  shrimp.  If  the  shrimp  ran  out,  we  would  put  the  sauce  on  crackers. 
MD. 


1    pint  Miracle  Whip 

1/2 

bottle  catsup 

1    bottle  chili  sauce 

2 

teaspoons  prepared 

1    bottle  cream  style  horseradish 

mustard 

relish  (India  or  other  sweet) 

Worcestershire  sauce 

salt 

black  pepper 

Texas  Pete,  if  desired 

1 

medium  onion 

Grate  the  onion,  and  combine  with  other  ingredients. 

Robert  Stewart,  Shallotte,  North  Carolina 


^    Pear  Honey 


7   pounds  pears  5    pounds  sugar 

1    No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple  juice  of  1  lemon 

Cook  pears  until  tender,  and  add  pineapple.  Cook  until  thick    Maraschino 
cherries  may  be  added  with  pineapple  if  desired    Makes  7  or  8  pints. 


80 


The  Porch  in  Summer 


Porches  offered  a  relief  from  the  heat  of  the  summer  and 

provided  a  gathering  place  for  family  and  friends  — 

a  tradition  of  Southern  hospitality.  — M.D. 


SALADS 


Grapefruit  Salad 

Refreshing  and  light!  I  often  use  individual  molds  or  prepare  the  salad  in  a  flat 
Pyrex  dish  and  cut  into  squares  to  serve.    M.D. 


5    large  grapefruit 

8    cups  chopped  grapefruit 

sections  and  juice 

pinch  of  salt 


4    packages  lemon  jello 
1    can  crushed  pineapple,  if 

desired 
4    cups  boiling  water 


Cut  grapefruit  in  halves,  cut  out  sections,  and  discard  bitter  pulp    Dissolve 
jello  in  4  cups  boiling  water   Add  grapefruit  sections  with  juice,  pineapple  with 
juice,  and  saU    Fill  halves,  and  let  congeal.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut  into 
quarters  and  pour  the  special  dressing  over  it.  Recipe  can  be  reduced. 

Dressing: 


3 

egg  yolks 

1/3 

cup  sugar 

pinch  sah 

3 

Tablespoons  flour 

3 

Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1 

cup  pineapple  juice 

12 

marshmallows 

1 

pint  whipped  cream 

1 

cup  almonds,  blanched  and 
chopped 

Combine  egg  yolks,  sugar,  sah,  flour,  lemon  juice,  and  pineapple  juice  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick.  While  hot,  add  marshmallows    Heat  again, 
then  cool.  Add  whipped  cream  and  almonds    Dressing  may  be  prepared  the 
day  before  except  for  adding  the  cream  and  almonds.  Makes  20  servings 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


83 


Salads 

Grapefruit  Date  Salad 

My  grandmother  had  1929  written  on  this  recipe!  M.D. 

sliced  dates  grapefruit  sections 

1/2    cup  oil  1    teaspoon  sah 

1/4   cup  grapefruit  juice  1/4   teaspoon  paprika 

Place  a  mound  of  sliced  dates  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce    Surround  with  grapefruit 
sections.  Place  the  oil,  grapefruit  juice,  salt,  and  paprika  in  a  covered  con- 
tainer. Shake  until  well  blended.  Pour  this  dressing  over  the  salad    Serves  6. 

Atmie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Bridge  Salad 

juice  of  2  oranges 

juice  of  1  lemon 

3 

egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 

2   teaspoons  com  starch 

1 

Tablespoon  butter 

4    Tablespoons  sugar 

1 

envelope  unflavored  gelatin 

1/2    pint  whipped  cream 

1 

cup  pineapple  pieces 

4   ounces  chopped  pecans 

1/2 

apple,  grated 

1/2    cup  maraschino  cherries. 

water 

chopped 

Combine  orange  and  lemon  juices,  egg  yolks,  cornstarch,  butter,  and  sugar. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.    Dissolve  gelatin  in  1/2  cup  cold  water.  Add 
to  juice  mixture.  Let  cool.  When  cooled  and  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
add  whipped  cream,  pineapple,  nuts,  apple,  and  cherries.  Pour  into  large  ring 
mold  or  any  serving  container  suitable  for  a  gelatin  salad 


84 


Salads 


Autumn  Apple  Salad 

Most  of  the  recipes  in  this  book  are  from  Virginia  or  North  CaroHna,  but  I 
couldn't  pass  up  the  opportunity  to  include  one  given  to  me  by  my  good 
golfing  buddy  and  close  friend  Sharon    She  brought  it  to  me  when  she 
returned  fi"om  a  family  reunion  in  Nebraska  in  1995    It  sounds  scrumptious, 
and  I  am  happy  that  we  can  now  claim  it  as  a  local  recipe     MP 


1 

20-ounce  can  crusTied 

2/3 

cup  sugar,  or  8  packets 

pineapple,  undrained 

artificial  sweetener 

1 

3-ounce  package  lemon  jello 

1 

8-ounce  package  cream 

1 

cup  celery,  chopped 

cheese 

1  or  2 

cups  diced  apples 

1/2  to  1 

cup  nuts,  chopped 

unpeeled 

1 

cup  whipped  topping 

In  saucepan,  combine  undrained  pineapple  and  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and 
continue  to  boil  for  3  minutes.  Add  jello  (do  not  add  water)    Stir  until  dis- 
solved. Add  softened  cream  cheese,  and  blend  thoroughly  into  mixture    Cool 
Fold  in  apples,  nuts,  celery,  and  topping    Pour  into  9-inch  square  pan  or  large 
bowl.  Chill  until  firm.  "Lite"  cream  cheese  and  "lite"  whipped  topping  may  be 
substituted  for  heavier  type  ingredients.  Enjoy! 

Sharon  Haring,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Cherry  Salad 

1    No  2  can  red  sour  cherries  1    package  cherry  jello 

1    small  can  crushed  pineapple  1    cup  nuts,  chopped 

1/3    cup  sugar 

Put  can  of  cherries  (juice  and  all)  in  pan.  Add  1/3  cup  sugar,  let  come  to  a 
boil    Remove  fi'om  stove,  and  sprinkle  cherry  jello  over  this  mixture    Do  not 
use  any  water  with  the  jello.  Let  cool  slightly   Add  nuts  and  pineapple  (juice 
and  all). 

Genevieve  Proffitt,  Salisbury,  Maryland 

85 


Salads 

Bing  Cherry  Salad 

Once  when  Mother  served  this  salad,  a  spoonful  fell  on  the  kitchen  floor   Our 
dachshund.  Cricket,  quickly  rushed  over  to  eat  the  salad.  My  sister  and  I  took 
great  delight  in  teasing  Mother,  telling  her  that  the  dog  was  feeling  the  effects 
of  the  wine  salad.  Mother  was  not  amused,  but  Cricket  was  delighted  with  all 
the  attention    M.D. 

1    can  cherries,  pitted  1    package  dark  cherry  jello 

1    cup  nuts,  or  less  1    cup  port  wine 

lemon  juice 

Drain  juice  from  cherries,  and  add  enough  water  to  make  1  cup.  Heat  this  to 
boiling,  and  pour  over  jello.  Dissolve  jello  thoroughly.  Add  port  wine,  nuts, 
and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  lemon  juice.  This  makes  about  6  individual  molds 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Christmas  Salad 

2    packages  strawberry  jello  2  cups  boiling  water 

2    10-ounce  packages  frozen  1  1/2  cups  crushed  pineapple, 

strawberries  drained 

2    ripe  bananas  1  cup  sour  cream 

Dissolve  jello  in  boiling  water   Add  frozen  berries,  and  stir  slowly  until 
thawed    Add  pineapple  and  bananas  to  mixture.  Pour  half  the  mixture  into 
serving  dish  Chill  until  firm.  Spread  sour  cream  evenly  over  chilled  jello 
mixture    Add  remaining  gelatin  mixture,  and  chill  until  firm.. 


86 


Salads 

Spiced  Peach  Salad 

1    teaspoon  cloves  1/4    cup  water 

1    large  jar  pickled  peaches  2    cups  liquid 

1    teaspoon  plain  gelatin  1    Tablespoon  cold  water 

1    package  lemon  jello  pinch  salt 
dash  lemon  juice 

Boil  cloves  in  1/4  cup  water  for  5  minutes.  Strain  into  measuring  cup.  Cut  up 
peaches,  reserve  juice.  Soak  gelatin  in  tablespoon  of  cold  water.  Set  aside. 
Combine  peach  juice,  spice  liquid,  and  enough  water  to  make  2  cups.  Bring  to 
boil;  add  gelatin  and  jello.  Stir  until  dissolved    Return  cut  up  peaches  to 
Hquid;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  dash  of  lemon  juice.  Pour  into  molds  that  have 
been  rinsed  with  cold  water   May  be  made  several  days  ahead. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Pineapple  Marshmallow  Salad 


3 

eggs 

1/2 

cup  vinegar 

1 

cup  sugar 

1 

can  pineapple  chunks 

1 

large  bag  miniature 

1/2 

cup  nuts 

marshmallows 

1/2 

pint  whipping  cream 

Beat  eggs  well,  add  sugar.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  adding  vinegar  a  little  at  a 
time    Stir  well  while  cooking    When  thick  enough  to  peak,  let  cool.  Pour 
over  pineapple,  nuts,  and  marshmallows    Mix  well.  Whip  the  cream,  and  fold 
in.  Chill  in  refrigerator   Can  be  served  on  lettuce  as  salad,  or  without  lettuce 
as  dessert. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


87 


Salads 


Frozen  Fruit  Salad 


pmt  cream 
pint  mayonnaise 
lemon 

6 

1/2 

2 

cup  nuts,  chopped 
pound  sugar 
small  bottle  cherries 
large  cans  fruit  salad 

2 
1 
1 

When  I  made  this  salad  to  take  to  a  Darden  Christmas  dinner  several  years  ago, 
it  was  so  popular  my  mother-in-law  asked  me  to  make  the  salad  every  Christ- 
mas after  that.  She  suggested  doubling  the  amount  of  whipping  cream  and 
omitting  the  mayonnaise    It  is  delicious  that  way  too!  When  I  make  a  large 
quantity  of  this  salad,  I  use  9x1 3 -inch  pans.  This  makes  it  easier  to  cut  into 
squares  and  serve.  M.D. 

bananas,  sliced 

pound  Wisconsin  cheese, 

grated 

small  packages  cream  cheese 

can  pears,  large 

can  crushed  pineapple,  large 


Put  pineapple  and  juice  over  sugar,  and  let  stand.  Drain  all  other  fruit.  Mix 
mayonnaise  and  grated  cheese.  Add  softened  cream  cheese    Sprinkle  lemon 
juice  on  bananas.  Combine  all  fiuit  and  nuts  with  mayonnaise  mixture    Whip 
cream,  and  fold  into  mixture    Freeze  in  ice  trays  or  oyster  cartons    Will  keep  a 
couple  of  months.  Serves  25. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Apricot  Salad 

1    large  package  apricot  gelatin  1    medium  can  crushed 

1  1/2    cups  Cheddar  cheese,  pineapple 

shredded  1    large  container  Cool  Whip 

Mix  2  cups  boiling  water  with  jello.  Add  6  or  7  ice  cubes,  stir  until  dissolved. 
Beat  with  mixer   Blend  in  pineapple  and  cheese.  Beat  with  mixer.  Fold  in 
whipped  topping    Chill  until  set. 


88 


Salads 


Delicious  Summer  Fruit  Salad 


Ah!  Summer  in  Virginia  Beach  where  golf  outings,  art  shows,  beach  parties, 
and  picnics  are  regular  forms  of  entertainment.  Almost  any  excuse  works  for 
getting  folks  together,  and  this  is  a  truly  refreshing  summer  taste  treat  for  any 
occasion.    MP 

1  cantaloupe  1  honeydew  melon 

1  pint  watermelon  4  fresh  peaches 

1  pint  strawberries  4  large  bananas 

5  Tablespoons  Fruit  Fresh  2/3  cup  sugar 

Sprinkle  Fruit  Fresh  on  fruit  that  has  been  cut  into  cubes  or  made  into  melon 
balls.  Gently  mix  in  sugar.  Fold  the  dressing  into  the  fruit  just  before  serving. 

Dressing: 

Make  dressing  the  day  before  serving. 

3/4    cup  apple  juice  3/4    cup  orange  juice 

1    cup  sugar  4   Tablespoons  cornstarch 

1    Tablespoon  poppy  seeds 

Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch  with  enough  apple  and  orange  juice  to  dissolve    Add 
rest  of  juice,  and  heat  until  thickened    Add  poppy  seeds    Let  dressing  cool, 
and  store  in  refrigerator  overnight. 

Angel  Salad 

1/4    pound  small  marshmallows  1    small  package  cream  cheese 

1    small  can  crushed  pineapple  1/2    pint  whipped  topping 

1/2    cup  nuts  1    small  package  lime  jello 

Dissolve  jello,  marshmallows,  and  cream  cheese  in  boiling  water  according  to 
jello  directions.  Chill  until  almost  firm,  add  pineapple,  whipped  topping,  and 
nuts.  Mix  well  and  chill  until  firm 


89 


Salads 

Heavenly  Hash 

Many  years  ago,  soon  after  Don  and  I  were  married,  I  was  introduced  to  the 
family  tradition  of  spending  a  week  in  a  rented  cabin  at  Douthat  State  Park 
near  Clifton  Forge,  Virginia,  Don's  home  town    His  folks  had  gone  there  each 
summer  for  years    In  fact,  a  couple  of  brothers  had  helped  build  the  place. 
Our  own  family  became  regulars  too,  as  we  took  our  sons  there  several  sum- 
mers running  during  the  60's    They  still  talk  about  Cabin  1 7  or  Cabin  12  or  any 
of  their  other  "favorite  cabins  "  We  were  last  there  in  1992,  when  we  had  a 
huge  family  reunion  at  the  Guest  Lodge.  My  sweet  sister-in-law  "Sis"  intro- 
duced me  to  Heavenly  Hash  during  our  very  first  trip  to  Douthat    That  was  a 
long  time  ago,  and  both  the  recipe  and  the  sister-in-law  have  remained  as  sweet 
ever  since.    MP. 

2    cans  mandarin  oranges  2    cans  pineapple  chunks 

1    can  shredded  coconut  1    small  bag  miniature 

1    carton  sour  cream  marshmallows 

Drain  juice  off"fiTiits.  Mix  finait  pieces,  coconut,  and  sour  cream  together. 
Chill. 

"Sis"  Waid Proffitt,  Salisbury,  Maryland 


Pineapple  Nut  Salad 

1    small  package  lime  jello  1    cup  boiling  water 

1    can  (No. 2)  crushed  pineapple  1/2    cup  nuts 

1    cup  cottage  cheese  sour  cream 
nutmeg 

Mix  jello  in  boiling  water.  Stir  until  dissolved.  IVIix  in  pineapple,  nuts,  and 
cottage  cheese.  Chill  until  firm    Top  with  sour  cream  mixed  with  a  little 
nutmeg. 


90 


Salads 

Blueberry  Salad 

1    6-ounce  box  cherry  gelatin  2  cups  boiling  water 

1    cup  cold  water  1  can  blueberry  pie  filling 

1    small  can  crushed  pineapple,  1  3   1/2-ounce  package  cream 

drained  cheese 

1/2    cup  chopped  nuts  1  4-ounce  Cool  Whip 

Mix  boiling  water  with  gelatin,  and  stir  until  dissolved    Add  cold  water, 
pineapple,  nuts,  and  pie  filling    Chill  until  firm    Beat  Cool  Whip  and  cream 
cheese  together,  and  spread  over  top  of  firm  gelatin  salad. 


Watergate  Salad 

This  is  a  well-known  recipe,  but  I  include  it  because  it  came  to  me  fi"om  a 
fellow  librarian  with  whom  I  worked  many  years  ago  at  Independence  Junior 
High  School    I  particularly  recall  eating  this  always  delicious  treat  during  a 
spectacular  snow  storm  in  Virginia  Beach  during  the  70's,   Several  couples 
fi-om  Independence  had  planned  to  get  together  for  dinner  at  Donald  and 
Loretta  Bishop's  home  in  the  Seagate  Condominium,  and,  by  golly,  no  mere  2 
or  3  feet  of  snow  were  going  to  stop  us.  Each  of  us  brought  something  to 
make  the  pot  lucky,  and  I'm  sure  this  dish  was  present    Whenever  I  prepare  it, 
I  think  of  the  good  times  shared  by  that  wonderful  group  of  fiiends.  M.  P. 

1    20-ounce  can  crushed  pineapple  1  container  whipped  topping 

1    3 -ounce  box  pistachio  pudding 
mix 

Mix  dry  pudding  mix  and  crushed  pineapple  (do  not  drain)    Add  whipped 
topping,  and  fold  in  well    Chill.  (Can  also  add  small  marshmallows.) 

"Pete" Hughey,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


91 


Salads 


Asparagus 

Salad 

2 
3/4 

envelopes  gelatin 
cup  sugar,  or  less 

1/2    cup  cold  water 
salt 

1/2 
1/4 
1/2 

1 
1 

cup  white  vinegar 
cup  asparagus  juice 
cup  pecans,  chopped 
small  can  sliced  pimentos 
Tablespoon  onion,  grated 

1    cup  water 
1    cup  celery,  chopped 
1    can  green  asparagus 
juice  of  1/2  lemon 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  cold  water   Combine  sugar,  vinegar,  water,  and  sak,  and 
bring  to  a  boil.  Continue  boiling  for  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat,  add  gelatin 
mixture,  stir,  and  let  cool    Combine  remaining  ingredients,  and  add  to  cooled 
liquid  mixture.  Chill  until  firm.  Serves  6  to  8. 


Beet  Salad 

1  1 -pound  can  shoestring  beets  1/2 

1  3-ounce  package  lemon  jello  1/4 
1/4  cup  apple  cider  vinegar  1/2 

2  teaspoons  onion,  grated  1 


cup  celery,  chopped 
cup  sugar 
teaspoon  sah 
heaping  Tablespoon 
horseradish  or  to  taste 


Drain  beets    Add  water  to  make  1  1 /2  cups  liquid    Bring  to  a  boil.  Remove 
from  heat,  and  add  jello,  sugar,  vinegar,  celery,  onion,  salt,  beets,  and  horserad- 
ish. Let  congeal. 

Dot  Denton,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


92 


Salads 

Broccoli  Salad  No.  1 

2    heads  broccoli,  chopped  1/2    cup  raisins 

1/2    cup  onions,  chopped  1    cup  mayonnaise 

2  to  3    Tablespoons  vinegar  8    slices  bacon,  crumbled 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  bacon  the  night  before  serving    Fry,  and 
crumble  bacon    Add  to  other  ingredients  10  to  15  minutes  before  serving. 

Debby  Gooch,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Carolina  Cole  Slaw 

1    large  cabbage,  grated  or  chopped      1    green  pepper,  finely 
1    onion,  finely  chopped  chopped 

Combine  cabbage,  green  pepper,  and  onion.  Set  aside. 

Dressing: 

1    cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 

1    teaspoon  dry  mustard  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1    cup  cider  vinegar  2/3  cup  oil 

Mix  sugar,  salt,  mustard,  and  celery  seed  in  a  saucepan.  Add  vinegar  and  oil, 
let  come  to  a  boil  over  moderate  heat,  stirring  until  sugar  dissolves.  Pour  over 
cabbage  mixture    Toss  well  to  mix.  Cover,  and  refrigerate.  Will  keep  a  week. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


93 


Salads 


Broccoli  Salad  No.  2 

4 

cups  broccoli  flowerets 

1/2    cup  carrots 

1/3 

cup  red  onion 

1    Tablespoon  Hormel  Bacon 

1/2 

cup  dressing  (Marie's  Tangy 

Bits 

French  or  Kraft  Catalina  with 

1/4    cup  raisins 

/-^     .    \.      . 

Honey) 

_       _      _     1*               A.    .              _        _        1          _         _    •_                   •       ^      _         1        -^     _ 

3/4    cup  cashews 

Cut  broccoli,  carrots,  and  onion  into  bite  size  pieces  Combine  all  ingredients 
except  raisins  and  cashews.  They  should  be  mixed  in  just  before  serving.  (If 
using  Marie's  Dressing,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  should  be  added  ) 

"Corky" Proffitt  Bailey,  Pearisburg,  Virginia 

Old-Fashioned  Cucumbers 

1  medium  cucumber  2    small  green  peppers 

2  Tablespoons  distilled  1    Tablespoon  sugar 
white  vinegar  1    teaspoon  salt 

Pare  cucumber,  and  slice  thin    Cut  green  peppers  into  thin  strips.  Stir  together 
vinegar,  sugar,  and  salt    Add  cucumber  and  green  pepper.  Mix    Cover,  and 
chill,  stirring  occasionally  before  serving.  Makes  4  servings. 

Colorful  Cole  Slaw 

1  head  red  cabbage,  shredded  1  hfead  green  cabbage,  shredded 

1/2  dozen  radishes,  finely  chopped  1  carrot,  shredded 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise,  or  more  1/4  cup  sugar 

1/4  cup  crushed  pineapple,  drained  1  Tablespoon  pineapple  juice 

Set  aside  a  small  portion  of  radishes  and  carrots    Mix  all  other  ingredients. 
Spoon  into  serving  bowl,  and  garnish  with  rest  of  radishes  and  carrots. 
Reftigerate  until  well  chilled    Serves  8  to  10. 


94 


Salads 

Harvey  House  Slaw 

Talk  about  a  cook!  My  sister-in-law  Janie  can  cook  as  well  as  her  mother 
Mae,  who  was  the  best  cook  ever   I  can't  tell  you  how  many  times  I  have 
overdosed  on  Janie's  Lemon  Pound  Cake.  She  is  a  real  sweetheart  who  takes 
special  joy  in  cooking  all  day  long  and  then  takes  more  special  joy  in  loading 
everything  she  has  cooked  into  her  car  and  delivering  it  to  friends  and  relatives. 
We  will  always  remember  our  family  reunions  for  the  wonderful  rolls,  turkeys, 
pies,  pole  beans,  etc.,  etc  ,  etc.  contributed  by  Janie    Once  when  we  were  on 
our  way  to  a  family  get-together,  we  passed  her  stopped  car  on  the  highway. 
She  had  the  lid  of  her  trunk  open  and  was  bending  over  a  pan,  punching  down 
the  bread  dough  so  it  would  be  ready  for  making  rolls  when  she  arrived.  We 
still  get  a  laugh  when  we  recall  that  episode    This  Harvey  House  slaw,  how- 
ever, is  no  laughing  matter.  It's  more  of  a  swooning  matter.  Sooooogood! 
M.P. 

1    large  or  2  small  heads  2    Bermuda  onions 

green  cabbage  2   cups  sugar 

Shred  cabbage  finely,  as  on  a  kraut  cutter.  Put  layer  of  cabbage  in  large  bowl 
Top  with  a  layer  of  onions,  then  green  pepper  if  desired.  Alternate  layers  until 
all  vegetables  are  used    Sprinkle  sugar  over  top.  Do  not  stir 

Dressing: 

4    teaspoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

1    cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

3/4    cup  vegetable  oil  1  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  dressing  ingredients.  Bring  to  a  boil    Pour  immediately  over  the 
cabbage,  and  cover  container  tightly  to  hold  steam.  Again,  do  not  stir.  Refi^ig- 
erate,  and  let  stand  at  least  4  hours  or  longer    Stir  well,  and  serve.  Keeps  as 
long  as  it  lasts. 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


95 


Salads 

Sauerkraut  Salad 


1 

large  jar  sauerkraut 

3/4 

cup  sugar 

2 

cup  apple  cider  vinegar 

1 

cup  celery,  chopped 

1 

cup  green  pepper,  chopped 

1/4 

cup  onion,  chopped 

1 

teaspoon  celery  seed 

1/4 

teaspoon  pepper 

Rinse  sauerkraut  and  let  drain.  Mix  other  ingredients  with  drained  sauerkraut. 

Dot  Denton,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Corn  Salad 

2    cups  sweet  corn,  cooked  3/4    cup  fresh  tomatoes,  chopped 

1/2    cup  green  pepper,  chopped  1/2    cup  celery,  chopped 

1/4    cup  green  onion,  chopped  1/4    cup  prepared  ranch  salad 

dressing 

In  large  salad  bowl,  combine  vegetables.  Stir  in  dressing.  Cover,  and  refriger- 
ate until  serving. 

Dot  Denton,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Congealed  Cucumber  Salad 


1 

2 
1  1/2 

package  lime  jello 
Tablespoons  vinegar 
cups  minced  cucumber 

1    cup  hot  water 
1    Tablespoon  onion,  minced 
1/4   teaspoon  sah. 

1/2 

cup  mayonnaise 

Dissolve  jello  in  hot  water   Add  vinegar  and  minced  onion.  Chill  until  partially 
thickened.  Mix  minced  cucumber  with  salt.  Drain  well    Whip  gelatin  until 
fluffy   Fold  in  mayonnaise  and  cucumber  mixture    Chill  until  firm.  (Finely 
chopped  celery  may  be  added  if  desired.) 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


96 


Salads 

Beet  Cucumber  Salad  Ring 

1    16-ounce  can  shoestring  beets  1    envelope  unflavored  gelatin 

1/4    cup  sugar  dash  saU 

3    Tablespoons  lemon  juice  1/2    small  cucumber,  thinly  sliced 
lettuce 

Drain  beets,  reserving  liquid    Set  aside    In  small  saucepan,  combine  gelatin, 
sugar,  and  salt    Add  enough  water  to  beet  liquid  to  make  1  3/4  cups  liquid 
Add  to  gelatin  mixture    Cook,  and  stir  over  low  heat  until  gelatin  dissolves. 
Stir  in  lemon  juice.  Pour  about  3/4  cup  of  the  gelatin  mixture  into  a  3  1/2-  or 
4-  cup  ring  mold    Arrange  cucumber  shces  in  bottom  of  mold.  Chill  both 
gelatin  mixtures  until  larger  amount  is  partially  set    Stir  drained  beets  into 
larger  amount  of  gelatin.  Spoon  over  cucumbers  in  mold    Chill  until  firm. 
Unmold  onto  lettuce-lined  serving  plate.  Makes  6  servings. 


Mother's  Potato  Salad 

Cook  potatoes  in  skins    Peel,  and  cut  up  while  warm    Add  sah  and  a  little 
grated  onion  (pepper,  if  desired).  Add  real  mayonnaise  and  Durkee  dressing 
while  potatoes  are  warm    Refrigerate  for  several  hours  —  or  overnight    Add 
celery  and  green  pepper  (celery  seed,  if  desired)    Refrigerate  again  for  several 
hours  or  overnight. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


j^.,^  Sweet  Pickle  Juice 

When  the  sweet  pickle  jar  is  empty,  save  the  juice  and  use  it  instead  of  vinegar 
when  preparing  salads 


97 


Sa/aJs 

Day-Before  Salad 

This  recipe  is  not  original  with  my  husband  Don,  but  he  prepares  it  beautifully. 
Often  it  is  a  specially  requested  menu  item  when  we  get  together  for  a  cook- 
out  with  friends    MP. 

1  1 0-ounce  package  peas,  fi'ozen  1    jar  red  wine  and  vinegar 

1  large  head  lettuce  salad  dressing 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  1    cup  onion,  chopped 

3  stalks  celery,  thinly  sliced  1/2    pound  bacon 

1  small  jar  black  olives,  sHced  1/2    cup  Cheddar  cheese, 

3  large  tomatoes,  diced  shredded 
mayonnaise 

Combine  peas,  lettuce,  pepper,  onion,  and  celery  Place  in  13x9x2-inch  glass 
dish    Spread  a  little  or  lots  of  mayonnaise  on  top,  however  you  choose 
Sprinkle  cheese  over  top.  Cover,  and  refrigerate  overnight    In  separate  con- 
tainer, combine  tomatoes  with  1/2  bottle  of  wine  and  vinegar  salad  dressing 
Refrigerate  overnight.  Stir  occasionally   Fry  bacon,  and  crumble.  Before 
serving,  spoon  tomatoes  and  dressing  mixture  over  salad    Top  with  crumbled 
bacon  and  black  olives    No  other  dressing  is  needed    (Any  kind  of  cheese  may 
be  used,  we  usually  use  Cheddar.) 


Summer  Salad. 

2    cups  cooked  macaroni  2    cups  diced  tomatoes 

1    cup  mayonnaise  1    cup  cheese 

Combine  all  ingredients    Chill    Add  any  other  things  preferred,  shredded 
cabbage,  etc. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


98 


Salads 


Carolina  Tangy  Vegetable  Salad 


3/4    cup  vinegar 
1    teaspoon  salt 
1    Tablespoon  water 
1    1 2-ounce  can  shoe  peg  com, 

drained 
1    cup  celery,  chopped 


3/4    cup  sugar 

1/2   teaspoon  pepper 
1    1 7-ounce  can  sweet  peas, 

drained 
1    cup  onion,  chopped 
1    2-ounce  jar  pimentos 


Combine  vinegar,  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  and  water.  Boil  1  minute,  then  cool 
Add  peas,  com,  celery,  onion,  and  pimentos.  Stir.  Place  in  covered  contamer, 
and  cool  overnight.  Serve  chilled.  Serves  8 

June  Hand-Decker,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Molded  Vegetable  Salad 


2 
1/4 

1 

1  1/2 


packages  lemon  jello 

cup  green  pepper,  chopped 

pimento,  chopped 

cup  celery,  chopped 

dash  red  pepper 

cups  boiling  water 


2  Tablespoons  chili  sauce 
1/4   cup  olives,  chopped 

1    cup  nuts  or  less,  chopped 

3  Tablespoons  India  relish 
dash  salt 


Add  boiling  water  to  jeUo,  and  set  aside.  Add  all  ingredients  to  jello  when  it 
has  cooled.  Place  in  serving  container.  Serves  8    Is  colorful,  sweet,  and  tart 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroHna 


99 


Salads 


Exotic  Chicken  Salad 

1 

quart  chicken,  cooked 

1    can  water  chestnuts 

1 

pound  seedless  red  or 

1    cup  celery,  sliced 

green  grapes 

1    cup  slivered  almonds. 

1  1/2 

cups  mayonnaise 

toasted 

1  1/2 

teaspoon  curry  powder 

1    Tablespoon  soy  sauce 

Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1    can  pineapple  chunks 

Boston  or  bibb  lettuce 

Cook  chicken,  and  cut  into  bite-sized  pieces    Drain  and  slice  water  chestnuts. 
Combine  with  chicken,  grapes,  celery,  and  1/2  cup  of  the  almonds.  Mix 
mayonnaise,  curry  powder,  soy  sauce,  and  lemon  juice    Combine  with  chicken, 
and  chill.  Spoon  onto  abed  of  lettuce  leaves    Sprinkle  with  the  rest  of  the 
almonds,  and  garnish  with  pineapple  chunks. 


Oriental  Chicken  Salad 

2  cups  chicken  1    can  fancy  mixed 

2  Tablespoons  onion,  chopped  Chinese  vegetables 

1  cup  celery,  thinly  sliced  1/2    cup  green  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  salt  chopped 

2  teaspoons  soy  sauce  3/4    cup  mayonnaise 

Cook  and  dice  chicken.  Drain  and  rinse  Chinese  vegetables    Combine  ingredi- 
ents. Toss,  and  chill.  Water  chestnuts  may  be  added  if  desired 

Sara  Moss  McCowen,  Richmond,  Virginia 


Hawaiian  Mayonnaise 

Combine  2/3  cups  mayonnaise  and  3  tablespoons  pineapple  juice.  Serve  on 
fiiiit  salads 


100 


Salads 


Chunky  Chicken 


1 0    chicken  thighs 

1  cup  celery,  chopped 

2  Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  small  onion,  grated 

2  teaspoons  spicy  brown 
mustard 


2    Tablespoons  chicken  broth 
1/2    cup  sweet  salad  cubed 
pickles 
1    8-ounce  can  water 
chestnuts,  thinly  shced 
1/2    cup  mayonnaise 


Cut  cooked,  boned  chicken  thighs  into  1/2-inch  chunks    Mix  chicken  broth, 
celery,  pickle,  lemon  juice,  onion,  water  chestnuts,  mustard,  and  mayonnaise. 
Add  to  chicken  chunks.  Chill  for  at  least  one  hour.  Serves  6 


Crab  Salad 


1  pound  crab  meat 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise 

1/2  teaspoon  black  pepper 


2    boiled  eggs,  chopped 
1    medium  onion,  chopped 
1    teaspoon  salt 
lettuce 


Combine  all  ingredients,  and  serve  on  bed  of  lettuce 


Fresh  Shrimp  Salad 


1  pound  medium  shrimp  1/2 
1/3    cup  celery,  chopped  2 

2  teaspoons  fresh  lemon  juice  1/4 


cup  mayonnaise 
teaspoons  Old  Bay  seasoning 
teaspoon  Worcestershire 
sauce 


Cook,  peel,  and  devein  shrimp.  Cut  shrimp  in  half,  and  combine  with  remain- 
ing ingredients  Cover,  and  refrigerate  30  minutes  or  more  Stir  before  serv- 
ing. Serve  on  sandwich  roll,  croissant,  or  bed  of  lettuce.  Makes  4  servings 


101 


Salads 

Sea  Leg  Salad 

This  light  and  refreshing  salad  is  a  family  favorite  when  prepared  by  Gail,  our 
daughter-in-law.  She  does  everything  well,  this  recipe  is  no  exception    MP, 


1 

8-ounce  box  Rainbow  Trio 

1 

pound  sea  legs  (imitation 

macaroni 

crab  meat) 

1 

cup  celery,  chopped 

1/4 

cup  onion,  diced 

1 

cup  mayonnaise 

2 

Tablespoons  vinegar 

1 

teaspoon  sugar 

1 

cup  green  or  red  pepper. 

salt  and  pepper 

diced 

Boil  macaroni,  and  drain    Combine  mayonnaise,  vinegar,  sugar,  sah,  and 
pepper   In  a  large  bowl,  mix  macaroni,  mayonnaise  mixture,  and  all  other 
ingredients    Serve  cold    (A  12-ounce  box  of  macaroni  will  stretch  the  recipe 
without  sacrificing  flavor.)  Serves  16. 

Gail  Boyle  Proffitt,  Chesapeake,  Virginia 


Shrimp  Potato  Salad 


4 

cups  potatoes,  boiled 

1/4 

cup  olives,  sliced 

3 

hard-cooked  eggs,  chopped 

1 

cup  celery,  chopped 

1/4 

cup  onion,  chopped 

1/4 

cup  green  pepper,  chopped 

1/2 

cup  mayonnaise 

1/2 

pound  boiled  shrimp. 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

peeled 

Dice  potatoes,  and  cut  shrimp  into  salad-size  pieces    Combine  all  ingredients, 
and  mix  well    Chill  thoroughly  before  serving.  Serves  8  to  10. 


102 


Salads 


Salmon  Mousse 


1  envelope  gelatin 

1  small  onion,  sliced 

1/2  cup  mayonnaise 

1/2  teaspoon  dried  dill 

1  cup  heavy  cream 


2  Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1/2  cup  boiling  water 

1/2  teaspoon  paprika 

1  1  -pound  can  pink  salmon 


In  a  blender,  combine  gelatin,  lemon  juice,  onion,  and  boiling  water   Blend 
until  onion  is  just  pureed    Add  mayonnaise,  paprika,  dill,  and  salmon    Blend 
Add  cream,  1/3  cup  at  a  time,  and  blend  until  smooth.  Pour  mixture  into 
greased  1 -quart  mold,  and  chill  several  hours  until  firm.  To  unmold,  dip 
bottom  and  sides  into  warm  water,  and  turn  onto  a  serving  plate. 


Rice  and  Ham  Salad 


1 

10-ounce  package  frozen 

2 

cups  cooked  rice 

1 

1/2 

green  peas 

Tablespoon  onion,  grated 

cup  cooked  ham,  diced 

dash  paprika 

olives 

3/4 

1/2 

8 

cup  mayonnaise 
cup  dill  pickle,  diced 
ounces  Cheddar  cheese, 
cubed 

Cook  peas,  and  drain.  Gently  combine  mayonnaise,  rice,  onion,  pickle,  ham, 
and  cheese.  Fold  in  peas  Chill  Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves.  Sprinkle 
with  paprika,  garnish  with  olives.  Serves  8 


103 


Salads 

Dressing  for  Cole  Slaw 

1    teaspoon  prepared  mustard  2    Tablespoons  sugar 

3    Tablespoons  cream  3    Tablespoons  vinegar 

pepper  paprika 

celery  seed 

Mix  all  together  then  add  vinegar  last.  Add  other  things  if  liked  (apples,  nuts, 
pepper,  cukes,  etc.)  The  cabbage  should  be  crisp  and  cut  very  thin. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


^p  Cooked  Salad  Dressing 


4 
3 

1  1/2 

1/2 

egg  yolks 
Tablespoons  sugar 
cups  sweet  milk 
cup  vinegar 
cayenne  pepper 

2  teaspoons  mustard 
1    Tablespoon  flour 

3  Tablespoons  butter 
salt 

Mix  dry  ingredients    Add  beaten  yolks,  then  butter  meUed,  and  let  cool.  Then 
milk  and  lastly  vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  nice  and  thick    Set  aside  to 
cool.  You  can  make  half  this  quantity  if  you  like  or  you  can  double  this. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


^p   Sugar  Vinegar 


To  every  gallon  of  spring  water  put  two  pounds  of  the  very  coarsest  sugar;  boil 
and  skim  thoroughly,  then  put  one  quart  of  cold  water  to  every  gallon  of  hot. 
When  cool,  put  into  it  a  toast  spread  with  yeast.  Stir  it  nine  days;  then  barrel, 
and  set  it  in  a  place  where  the  sun  will  lie  on  it,  with  a  bit  of  slate  on  the 
bunghole    Observe  the  caution  about  the  barrel,  as  in  gooseberry  vinegar. 
Make  in  March;  it  will  be  ready  in  about  six  months. 


104 


Mountain  Cabin 

Family  reunions  held  at  the  Proffitt  cabin  in  the  mountains 

of  Virginia  enabled  dozens  of  cousins  to  get  to  know  each 

other  better  and  love  each  other  more.  —  M.P. 


SOUPS,  STEWS,  AND  SANDWICHES 

Soups 


Beef 'and  Vegetable  Soup 

beef,  sirloin  or  T-bone  1  can  tomatoes 

onion,  as  desired,  chopped  1  can  tomato  and  okra,  drained 

1    can  mixed  vegetables,  drained  1  or  2  cans  tomato  soup 

1    can  shoe  peg  com,  drained  handfiil  of  rice 

Cut  meat  from  bone  and  fat.  Put  in  big,  heavy  pot  (use  bone  and  as  much  of 
the  fat  as  you  wish).  Add  1  can  tomatoes,  and  onion    Add  lots  of  water  (1/2 
potflil).  Cook  about  1  1/2  to  2  hours  slowly   Add  1  can  tomatoes  and  okra,  1 
can  mixed  vegetables,  tomato  soup  (undiluted),  1  can  shoe  peg  com,  and  some 
rice    Cook  slowly  a  long  time    Remove  bone  and  fat    Refrigerate  soup    Later 
skim  fat  off  (The  tomato  soup  makes  the  difference!) 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroUna 


Curry  Soup 

8    ounces  cream  cheese,  2    cans  consomme,  room 

softened  temperature 

1    teaspoon  curry  powder  parsley 

In  a  blender,  mix  cheese,  curry  powder,  and  half  a  can  of  the  consomme    Pour 
into  8  serving  cups.  Cover,  and  chill  overnight.  Careftilly  spoon  rest  of  con- 
somme into  the  chilled  cups.  Chill  another  6  to  8  hours    Garnish  with  parsley. 


107 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Cabbage  Soup  with  Meat  Balls 


2    heads  hard  cabbage, 

shredded 
2  or  3    carrots,  grated 

1    package  dried  vegetables 
1    large  spoon  lemon  juice 

salt 


1    large  can  tomato  juice 
1    large  can  water 
2  or  3    stalks  celery,  chopped 
1    large  onion,  chopped 
1    large  spoon  artificial 
sweetener  or  less 


Combine  ingredients,  and  stew  1  to  1  1/2  hours. 


Meatballs: 


1    to  1  1/2  pounds  ground  beef 

or  veal 
1    small  onion,  chopped 


1    egg,  slightly  beaten 
1/2    cup  quick  cooking  rice 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


Combine  ingredients,  and  form  into  balls.  Drop  into  soup  mixture.  Cook  until 
meatballs  are  done. 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Carrot  Soup 


2  cups  carrots,  chopped 

1/4  teaspoon  thyme 

2  Tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  milk 


1    can  chicken  broth 
1/4    te'aspoon  nutmeg 
3    Tablespoons  flour 


Cook  carrots  with  chicken  broth  and  seasonings  until  tender,  about  10  minutes. 
Put  in  blender  and  blend  until  smooth.  Melt  butter,  add  flour    Stir,  and  cook  1 
minute    Stir  in  milk,  and  cook  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly   Stir  in 
carrot  mixture.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 


108 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Calico  Bean  Soup 

I  received  this  recipe,  along  with  the  colorful  mixture  of  beans  needed  to 
prepare  it,  from  one  of  the  staff  members  of  a  high  school  in  Virginia  Beach 
where  I  happily  served  as  librarian  for  several  years.  I  thought  it  was  a  great 
holiday  gift  idea    MP. 


2 

ounces  kidney  beans 

2 

ounces  navy  beans 

2 

ounces  black-eyed  peas 

2 

ounces  barley 

2 

ounces  lentils 

1 

ounces  split  peas 

2 

ounces  northern  beans 

1 

large  onion  chopped 

1 

large  can  tomatoes 

1 

teaspoon  garlic  powder 

juice  of  1  lemon 

salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

water 

1 

pound  ham,  diced 

Wash  beans,  place  in  a  large  kettle,  and  cover  with  water   Add  2  tablespoons 
of  salt  Soak  overnight.  In  the  morning,  drain,  and  add  2  quarts  of  water  and 
ham.  Simmer  2  to  3  hours;  then  add  other  ingredients    Simmer  another  30 
minutes  or  so    Serve  with  bread  or  crackers  and  a  salad. 

Kempsvi/Ie  High  School,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Colorings  for  Soups  and  Gravies 

Put  four  ounces  of  lump  sugar,  a  gill  of  water,  and  half  an  ounce  of  the  finest 
butter  into  a  small  tosser,  and  set  it  over  a  gentle  fire    Stir  it  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  it  becomes  a  bright  brown    Then  add  half  a  pint  of  water;  boil, 
skim,  and,  when  cold,  bottle  and  cork  it  tight    Add  to  soup  or  gravy  as  much 
of  this  as  will  give  a  proper  color 


109 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Corn  Soup 


6    ears  corn 

salt  and  pepper 
2    Tablespoons  flour 
2    egg  yolks,  beaten 


4 
3 
1 


quarts  water 
Tablespoons  butter 
pint  milk  or  cream 


Scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob    Place  the  scraped  cobs  into  4  quarts  of  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until  about  three  quarts  of  water  remain    Remove  cobs,  and 
replace  with  com    Cook  for  another  1/2  hour  or  until  corn  is  soft  enough  to  be 
pressed  through  a  sieve.  After  straining  com,  season  liberally  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Rub  the  flour  into  the  butter,  and  add  to  soup.  When  mixture  begins 
to  thicken,  add  the  boiling  cream,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  a  few  minutes 
more,  and  remove  from  heat.  Mix  in  beaten  egg  yolks    They  give  the  finishing 
touch  to  a  delicious  soup 

Split  Pea  Soup 

My  husband  does  much  of  the  daily  cooking  at  our  house.  He  loves  to  cook, 
and  I  love  to  let  him.  He  makes  many  delicious  foods,  but  I  think  soups  are  his 
specialty.     M.P. 


1 

pound  package  dry  split  peas          1/2 

pound  smoked  ham. 

1/2 

large  onion,  diced 

finely  diced 

1/2 

teaspoon  garlic  powder                    2 

bay  leaves 

1/2 

teaspoon  pepper                      8  to  10 
salt  to  taste 

cups  water 

Rinse  peas  thoroughly  before  placing  in  a  large,  heavy  pot.  Cover  with  water. 
Add  ham,  onion,  garlic  powder,  pepper,  and  bay  leaves.  Bring  to  a  heavy  boil, 
and  cook  two  minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  simmer.  Cover;  let  cook  2  to  3  hours 
or  even  longer  if  you  like    Add  sah  to  taste  during  the  last  thirty  minutes    Add 
more  pepper  if  desired    Remove  bay  leaves  before  serving. 

Don  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


110 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


French  Onion  Soup 

3    medium  onions,  sliced  4    cups  boiling  water 
French  bread,  not  fresh  Swiss  cheese,  imported 

butter  grated 

ovenproof  cookware 

Saute  onions  in  butter  in  frying  pan    Add  water  to  the  onions,  and  let  simmer 
about  10  minutes.  Break  or  cut  bread,  and  place  in  bottom  of  ovenproof  soup 
bowls.  Pour  soup  from  frying  pan  on  top  of  the  bread    Spread  a  generous 
amount  of  cheese  on  top  of  soup.  Place  in  preheated  oven  that  has  been  set  on 
broil.  Broil  about  10  minutes. 

Jeannine  Moss,  Winston-Salem,  North  Carolina 


Mother's  Quick  Potato  Soup 

This  was  one  of  my  favorites  when  I  was  growing  up  It  still  is  I  am  not  sure 
that  this  is  precisely  my  mother's  recipe,  but  it's  the  way  I  make  it,  and  it  suits 
me  —  and  my  family    MP. 

2  or  3    slices  bacon  1    medium  onion,  chopped 

4    medium  potatoes,  diced  1    cup  potato  stock 
2    cups  milk  fresh  parsley,  or  flakes 

salt  pepper 

Dice  potatoes,  and  cook  in  salted  water  until  nearly  done.  Reserve  1  cup  of 
the  stock.  While  potatoes  are  cooking,  cut  bacon  into  small  pieces;  fry  until 
crisp  but  not  hard.  Drain  most  of  fat  from  pan    Add  chopped  onion,  and  cook 
until  slightly  browned    Transfer  bacon  and  onions  into  soup-sized  pot    Add 
potatoes,  potato  stock,  milk,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste    Cook  over  low 
heat  about  20  minutes  or  until  potatoes  finish  cooking  and  flavors  meld 

Alice  Heath  Taylor,  Norfolk,  Virginia 


ill 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Tomato  Soup 

1  quart  ripe  tomatoes  1  quart  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  sugar  1/4  stick  butter 

1  quart  milk 

Boil  tomatoes  in  water  for  10  minutes    Add  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  and  butter 
Stir  until  butter  is  melted.  Gradually  stir  in  milk,  simmer  until  thoroughly 
heated  and  flavors  blend. 


Vegetable  Soup 

11/2    pounds  lean  stew  beef  1    large  onion,  chopped 

2    stalks  celery,  chopped  2    Tablespoons  oil  or  less 
large  amount  cold  water  com 

lima  beans  green  beans 

peas  carrots 

cabbage  4    white  potatoes,  diced 
2    cans  tomatoes,  diced  salt 

pepper  2    bay  leaves 
1    Tablespoon  parsley  flakes 

Cut  beef  into  bite-size  pieces    In  a  large,  heavy  pot,  brown  beef  in  oil    Add 
cold  water,  put  in  onion,  celery,  and  bay  leaves.  Cover,  simmer  for  2  hours. 
Except  for  tomatoes  and  potatoes,  add  vegetables  plus  sah  and  pepper  to 
taste    Cook  another  hour  The  potatoes,  tomatoes,  and  parsley  flakes  should 
then  be  added  along  with  more  salt  and  pepper  if  needed    Cook  another  30 
minutes    Remove  bay  leaves  before  serving.  Fresh  or  canned  vegetables  may 
be  used    Leave  out  the  ones  you  don't  like.    Of  course,  you  know  this  soup 
will  taste  better  the  day  after  cooking. 

Margaret  Taylor  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 
112 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Stews 


2  1/2  pounds  lean  beef 

1  large  bay  leaf 

1/4  teaspoon  pepper 

1/4  teaspoon  parsley  flakes 

1/8  teaspoon  thyme 

1  medium  onion,  thinly  sliced 

6  carrots,  cut  in  bite-sized 

pieces 

1  quart  water 


Beef  Stew 

4 

beef  boullion  cubes 

2 

teaspoons  salt 

1/8 

teaspoon  oregano 

1/8 

teaspoon  rosemary 

1 

medium  green  pepper,  finely 

iced 

chopped 

d                   6 

medium  potatoes,  cubed 

3/4 

cup  flour 

Bring  water  to  boil  in  a  heavy  pot.  Dissolve  beef  cubes  in  another  2  cups  of 
boiling  water,  and  add  this  to  the  boiling  water  in  the  heavy  pot.  In  a  skillet, 
sear  beef  in  its  own  fat.  A  little  oil  may  be  added  if  needed.  Put  beef  into  the 
pot,  and  add  salt,  pepper,  herbs,  green  pepper,  and  onion    Simmer  for  2  hours, 
then  add  carrots  and  potatoes    Simmer  1  additional  hour.  During  the  last  30 
minutes,  add  the  3/4  cup  of  flour  which  has  been  mixed  with  enough  water  to 
make  a  smooth  paste. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Fish  Stew 

Cut  2  pounds  of  Rock  fish  into  serving  size  pieces.  Place  slices  of  onion  in 
bottom  of  greased  pot,  add  a  layer  of  sliced  white  potatoes  and  a  layer  offish. 
Add  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  and  4  medium  cans  of  V-8  juice.  Cook 
until  potatoes  are  tender  and  fish  is  done    Add  small  com  dumplings  the  last 
15  minutes  of  cooking  time,  or  baked  cornbread  may  be  served  instead. 


113 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Brunswick  Stew 

Many  recipes  I  picked  up  during  my  teaching  career  make  the  memories  of  the 
friendships  I  formed  even  more  dear   This  one  came  from  one  of  the  nicest 
people  I  ever  worked  with    The  narrative  is  hers.    MP. 

"My  early  memories  of  Brunswick  stew  was  watching  with  interest  as  the  stew 
was  cooked  outdoors  in  an  iron  stew  pot  over  live  coals    This  version  of  the 
stew  substituted  chicken  and  pork  (fat  back)  for  the  gamier  ingredients    Sim- 
mering the  meat  until  it  has  separated  from  the  bone  blends  flavors  and  creates 
the  proper  full-bodied  taste  and  mushy  texture. 

"Only  fresh  vegetables  from  our  garden  were  added  to  the  pot  after  the  meats 
were  tender  and  removed  from  the  bone.  This  mixture  was  then  cooked  for 
hours  and  hours,  until  a  consistency  (thick  and  yummy)  was  obtained.  And,  by 
the  way,  this  was  a  watched  pot  —  stirred  at  intervals  to  prevent  sticking.  My 
version,  much  simplified,  follows: 

1  large  hen,  cut  up  2    large  onions,  sliced 

2  cans  lima  beans  2     cans  tomatoes,  diced 

2  cans  corn  3    medium  potatoes,  diced 

3  teaspoons  salt  1    teaspoon  black  pepper 
1    Tablespoon  sugar  water 

bay  leaves 

"Cook  chicken,  with  enough  water  to  cover,  until  tender.  Reserve  1  quart  of 
liquid  for  thick  stew,  or  2  quarts  for  thin  stew   Remove  chicken  from  bones 
and  dice  into  bite-size  pieces  Put  vegetables  into  boiling  stew  and  add  chicken. 
Simmer  on  low  heat  until  desired  consistency  is  obtained    Stir  frequently  to 
avoid  sticking.  Add  several  bay  leaves  to  cooked  mixture  and  refiigerate. 
Heat  only  the  amount  you  plan  to  serve  as  it  keeps  several  days."  (Note:  4 
cups  of  fresh  lima  beans,  tomatoes,  and  com  may  be  substituted  for  canned.) 

Louise  Bland,  Kitty  Hawk,  North  Carolina 


114 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Oyster  Stew 

1/4    cup  all-purpose  flour  1/4    cup  water 

4   teaspoons  salt  4   teaspoons  Worcestershire 

2  8-ounce  containers  sauce 

shucked  oysters  8    cups  half  and  half 

3  Tablespoons  butter  3    Tablespoons  chopped 
or  margarine  parsley 

In  a  4-quart  pan,  combine  flour,  water,  sah,  and  Worcestershire  sauce    Add 
oysters,  along  with  their  liquid    Cook  over  a  medium  to  low  heat  for  10  to  15 
minutes  until  oysters  curl  and  centers  are  firm    Add  butter  and  half  and  half 
Gradually  heat  to  boiling    Remove  fi"om  heat,  and  let  stand  10  minutes.  Gar- 
nish with  parsley.   10  cups  or  6  main  dish  servings. 


Jim's  Clam  Chowder 

Our  children  and  many  of  our  fiiends  always  look  forward  to  Jim's  clam  chow- 
der  If  you  like  the  taste  of  clams,  you  will  love  this  chowder.  One  cup  or 
bowl  won't  be  enough!  M.D. 

4    pints  clams,  with  juice  1    large  stalk  celery 

8    medium  potatoes  2   large  onions 

2    Tablespoons  butter 

Chop  up  the  clams,  celery,  potatoes,  and  onion   Put  in  large  pot  with  clam 
juice  and  water  (pot  about  3/4  foil),  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  Let 
simmer,  covered,  until  potatoes,  onions,  and  celery  have  cooked.  Makes 
approximately  6  quarts.  Optional;  To  reduce  the  clam  flavor,  you  can  cook  a 
strip  of  bacon  in  the  pot  before  adding  the  other  ingredients.  You  can  also  add 
carrots  (chopped)  and  a  can  of  tomatoes 

Jim  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


115 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Sandwiches 


Chicken  and  Pineapple  Sandwiches 

1  8-ounce  can  crushed  1    cup  cooked  chicken, 
pineapple,  drained  chopped 

2  cups  walnuts,  chopped  1/2    cup  cooked  salad  dressing 
24    slices  white  bread,  buttered 

Combine  pineapple,  chicken,  nuts,  and  salad  dressing.  Spread  on  buttered 
bread    For  party  sandwiches,  remove  crust  from  bread,  and  cut  diagonally  into 
quarters    (See  index  for  cooked  salad  dressing  recipe.) 


Pimento  Cheese  Sandwich  Spread 

Pimento  cheese  was  always  an  essential  food  item  during  the  week  we  spent 
with  my  parents  at  the  beach  in  North  Carolina.  My  sister,  Sara,  and  I  would 
eat  pimento  cheese  sandwiches  and  pimento  cheese  on  crackers.  In  fact. 
Mother,  Sara,  and  I  would  usually  have  a  container  of  pimento  cheese  and  a 
box  of  crackers  next  to  us!    MD 

1    10-ounce  package  yellow,  extra  1    package  white  or  sharp 

sharp  Cracker  Barrel  Cheese  cheese 

3    Tablespoons  mayonnaise  2    7-ounce  jars  pimentos,  diced 

Worcestershire  sauce  or  sliced,  with  juice 

1    small  onion,  grated 

Grate  cheeses,  and  combine  with  other  ingredients.  Refrigerate  in  closed 
container 

Sara  Moss  McCowen,  Richmond,  Virginia 
116 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Cheese  for  Sandwiches 

1    pound  cheese,  grated  1    tall  can  Carnation  milk 

salt  red  pepper 

onion  juice 

Heat  cheese  and  milk  in  top  of  a  double  boiler  until  blended  and  thickened 
Add  sah,  red  pepper,  and  onion  juice  to  taste.  Refrigerate.  Serve  as  sandwich 
spread  or  with  crackers. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Walnut  Tuna  Sandwiches 

1  7-ounce  can  white  tuna  1/2    cup  walnuts,  finely  chopped 

2  Tablespoons  sweet  pickles,  1    Tablespoon  green  pepper, 
finely  chopped  finely  chopped 

1    Tablespoon  pimento,  finely  1/2    teaspoon  salt 

chopped  6  to  8    Tablespoons  mayormaise 

20    slices  bread,  buttered 

Flake  tuna.  Add  remaining  ingredients,  except  bread,  and  blend  well.  Spread 
on  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Makes  10  sandwiches.  Crusts  may  be  cut  from 
bread  for  party  occasions 


Smithfield  Ham  Spread 

1/2    pound  Smithfield  ham,  ground       1/2   cup  mayonnaise 
2    Tablespoons  mustard  2    Tablespoons  butter,  softened 

Mary  S.  Moss  Washington,  North  Carohna 


117 


Soups,  Stews,  and  Sandwiches 


Fish  Sandwiches 

2 

eggs,  hard  boiled 

6    frozen  fish  fillets 

3 

Tablespoons  butter  or 

3    Tablespoons  flour 

margarine 

3/4    teaspoon  curry  powder 

3/4 

teaspoon  dry  mustard 

2  1/4    cups  milk 

1 

teaspoon  minced  onion 

1    cup  cheese,  cubed 

1 

Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

6    sandwich  buns 

salt 

pepper 

Toast  buns  under  broiler,  remove  and  spread  with  butter.  Broil  fish  until  done. 
In  a  saucepan,  meh  butter  Stir  in  dry  ingredients.  Add  milk  and  onion    Cook 
and  stir  until  mixture  thickens.  Add  cheese,  stir  until  mehed.  Chop  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  add  to  sauce    Sprinkle  fish  with  lemon  juice.  Use  sauce  as 
dressing  for  sandwiches. 


Deviled  Eggs  for  Sandwiches 


6 

hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped 

1 

cup  sweet  pickle  relish 

1 

teaspoon  sugar 

1/2 

teaspoon  sah 

'2 

Tablespoon  mustard 

1/2 

teaspoon  celery  seed 

3 

Tablespoons  mayonnaise 

Combine  and  mix  well. 


Ham  Sandwich  Spread 

Grind  1/2  pound  of  cooked  ham,  1  sweet  pickle,  and  4  hard  cooked  eggs. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  prepared  mustard    Moisten  with  vinegar  until  it 
is  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 


118 


Lynnhaven  Elementary  School 

Lynnhaven  Elementary  School  opened  in  September  1963 

in  Virginia  Beach.  Over  the  years  the  school  has  seen  many 

changes,  including  the  addition  of  kindergarten  classes, 

increased  staff,  additional  classrooms,  and  a  gymnasium. 

—  M.D. 


SWEETS 

Cakes 


Anne's  Chocolate  Cake 

This  delicious  cake  was  first  shared  with  me  when  Anne  and  I  worked  together 
several  years  ago    We  became  fi"iends,  and  she  would  sometimes  make  the 
cake  for  my  birthday   All  of  us  in  the  First  Colonial  High  library  would  have 
invented  an  occasion,  if  necessary,  to  have  Anne's  chocolate  cake.    M.D. 

1    package  fiadge  cake  mix  2    eggs,  beaten 

1    teaspoon  almond  extract  1    can  cherry  pie  filling 

Combine  cake  mix,  eggs,  and  flavoring  Stir  by  hand  until  well  mixed    Blend  in 
pie  filling    Grease  bottom  of  9x1 3 -inch  pan  with  solid  shortening  or  margarine. 
Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  25  to  30  minutes  or  until  toothpick  comes  out 
clean. 

Frosting: 

1    cup  sugar  5    Tablespoons  butter 

1/3    cup  milk  or  margarine 

1    6-ounce  package  semi-sweet 
chocolate  chips 

Prepare  frosting  while  cake  is  baking.  In  a  small  saucepan,  combine  sugar, 
butter,  and  milk    Boil  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  fi-om  heat,  and 
stir  in  chocolate  chips  until  smooth.  Pour  over  partially  cooled  cake 

Anne  Hopewell,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


121 


Sweets 

Our  Emily's  Chocolate  Cake 

Early  morning  visits  by  faculty  members  to  Mama  Groover's  kitchen  at 
Lynnhaven  Elementary  School  would  most  often  resuU  in  a  specially  prepared 
snack  meant  to  get  the  day's  teaching  oflfto  a  good  start    The  delicious  sticky 
buns,  donuts,  or  brownies  were  much  appreciated  treats  prepared  by  Mama 
Groover  and  her  staff.  These  coffee  snacks  also  provided  us  with  the  first 
aromas  of  wonderful  chocolate  cake  being  baked  as  dessert  for  the  lunchtime 
meal.  That  cake  is  still  talked  about  in  glowing  terms  whenever  former  faculty 
members  or  students  get  together  to  reminisce.  As  far  as  we  know,  no  one  has 
successfully  reduced  the  ingredients  to  make  a  family  size  cake,  but  we  think  it 
is  interesting  to  see  the  huge  amounts  needed  to  make  enough  cake  for  a 
school  full  of  children.  M.  &  M. 

17  1/2  pounds  flour  17  pounds  sugar 

28  ounces  Hershey's  cocoa  1  heaping  cup  baking  soda 

6  1/2  Tablespoons  sah  1  gallon  oil 

2  1/2  cups  vinegar  6  ounces  vanilla 

2  1/2  gallons  cold  water 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together  in  cafeteria  size  mixer   Make  3  wells.  Pour  oil  in 
the  first  well,  vinegar  in  the  second,  and  vanilla  in  the  third.  While  these 
ingredients  are  mixing,  pour  the  cold  water  over  all  until  the  batter  is  well- 
blended    Pour  into  7  greased  18x26-inch  sheet  cake  pans.  Bake  at  350  de- 
grees   Spread  frosting  while  cake  is  warm. 

Frosting: 

42    ounces  butter  14  pounds  confectioners' sugar 

7   cups  cocoa  1  1/2  teaspoons  salt 

4  1/2    cups  boiling  water  7  tablespoons  vanilla 

Cream  butter.  Combine  dry  ingredients,  mix  with  butter.  Stir  in  boiling  water. 
Blend  in  vanilla    Mix  frosting  until  smooth,  and  spread  on  warm  cake 


122 


Sweets 

^_    Chocolate  Cake 

2  squares  chocolate  2  Tablespoons  butter 

11/2  cups  flour  1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten 

1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Meh  the  chocolate  and  butter  together.   Sift  flour,  sugar,  and  soda  together. 
Combine  slightly  beaten  egg  yolk  and  milk.  Add  dry  ingredients  to  egg  mix- 
ture, and  beat  with  egg  beater   Add  chocolate  mixture  and  vanilla    Blend  well. 
Pour  into  shallow  pan    Place  in  cold  oven.  Bake  for  45  minutes  at  350  de- 
grees. Do  not  open  oven  door  during  first  20  minutes  of  baking. 

White  Caramel  Icing: 

1    cup  granulated  sugar  1/2    cup  milk,  scant 

butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 

Combine  ingredients,  and  bring  to  a  boil    Boil  until  stringy   Test  just  like 
brown  sugar  icing. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Granny's  Chocolate  Cake 

One  small  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  sugar,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  four  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Chocolate 
for  cake:  Six  tablespoonflils  of  bakers'  chocolate,  grated  fine;  scald  with  milk 
enough  to  make  a  paste  to  spread  easily,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 


123 


Sweets 


Mary's  Chocolate  Cake 


1/2  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  flour  4  Tablespoons  cocoa 

2  sticks  margarine  1  cup  water 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  teaspoon  soda  1/2  cup  buttermilk 

Preheat  oven.  Sift  flour,  salt,  and  sugar  into  a  large  mixing  bowl.  Combine 
cocoa,  margarine,  and  water  Cook  for  a  few  minutes  after  margarine  melts. 
Pour  hot  cocoa  mixture  into  dry  mixture    Stir  well.  Add  eggs  and  mix;  then 
add  vanilla.  Lastly,  add  buttermilk  that  has  been  mixed  with  the  soda    Pour 
into  greased  1 1  1/2x1 6-inch  pan  and  bake  in  400  degree  oven  for  20  minutes. 
Frost  with  a  chocolate  icing. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroHna 


Chocolate  Chip  Date  Cake 


1 

cup  boiling  water 

1 

cup  dates,  chopped 

1 

teaspoon  baking  soda 

1 

cup  shortening 

1 

cup  sugar 

2 

eggs,  beaten 

3/4 

cups  flour 

2 

Tablespoons  cocoa 

1/4 

teaspoon  salt 

1 

6-ounce  package 

1/2 

cup  nuts,  chopped 

chocolate  chips 

Combine  water,  dates,  and  baking  soda.  Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add 
beaten  eggs,  flour,  cocoa,  sah,  and  date  mixture    Mix  well.  Pour  into  9x  13- 
inch  greased  pan.  Sprinkle  with  chocolate  chips  and  nuts    Bake  at  350  de- 
grees for  30  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  if  desired. 


124 


Sweets 

Chocolate  Chip  Cake 

1    box  yellow  cake  mix  1    box  instant  vanilla  pudding 

1/2    cup  vegetable  oil  4    eggs 

1    cup  milk  1    bar  sweet  German  chocolate, 
1    6-ounce  package  chocolate  grated 

chips 

Reserve  1/4  cup  of  the  grated  chocolate  Mix  all  ingredients.  Bake  in  bundt  or 
tube  pan  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  50  to  55  minutes.  Remove  from  pan,  and  let 
cool. 

Glaze: 

1    cup  powdered  sugar  4    Tablespoons  milk 

1/4    cup  powdered  sugar  reserved  chocolate  shavings 

When  cake  has  cooled,  mix  the  cup  of  powdered  sugar  with  the  milk.  Glaze 
cake  with  mixture.  Dredge  reserved  chocolate  shavings  in  the  powdered  sugar, 
and  sprinkle  over  cake. 


Chocolate  Truffle  Cake 

2/3  cup  butter  1    12-ounce  package 

1  1/2  teaspoons  flour  chocolate  chips 

1  1/2  teaspoons  sugar  1/4   teaspoon  salt 

4  eggs,  separated  whipped  topping 

Melt  butter  and  chips  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add  flour,  sugar,  and  sah,  and 
stir  thoroughly.  Beat  in  egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  whites  until  stiff",  then 
fold  into  yolk  mixture    Pour  into  a  deep,  greased,  floured,  8-inch  cake  or 
springform  pan.  Bake  at  325  degrees  about  40  minutes  until  tester  comes  out 
clean.  Cool  1 5  minutes  before  cutting.  Top  with  whipped  topping 


125 


Sweets 

Mississippi  Mud  Cake 

2    cups  flour  2  cups  sugar 

1/2    teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2    sticks  butter  or  use  half  1  cup  water 

butter  and  half  shortening  3  Tablespoons  cocoa 

2    eggs,  beaten  1  teaspoon  soda 

1/2    cup  buttermilk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and  cinnamon  together.  Bring  butter,  water,  and  cocoa 
to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  flour  mixture.  Mix  eggs,  soda,  buttermilk,  and 
vanilla.  Combine  all  mixtures,  and  blend  well.  Pour  into  a  greased  9xl3x2-inch 
pan    Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  20  minutes 

Icing: 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine  3  Tablespoons  cocoa 

6  Tablespoons  milk  1  box  confectioners'  sugar 

1/2  cup  pecans,  chopped  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix  butter,  cocoa,  and  milk.  Heat,  and  mix  with  pecans,  sugar,  and  vanilla. 
Frost  cake  immediately. 


Chocolate  Nut  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  four-fifths  of  a  cup  of  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour.  Paste:  two  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of 
milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one-half  cup  of  nuts. 


126 


Sweets 


Chocolate  Pound  Cake 

1/2 

cup  butter  or  margarine 

1/2    cup  shortening 

3 
3 

1/2 
1 

cups  sugar 
cups  flour 
cup  cocoa 
teaspoon  vanilla 

5    eggs 
1/4   teaspoon  baking  powder 
1  1/4    cups  milk 

Cream  together  butter  and  shortening    Add  sugar,  and  mix  well.  Beat  in  eggs 
one  at  a  time    Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Alternately  add  the  dry  ingredients 
and  the  milk  to  the  creamed  mixture.  Blend  in  vanilla.  Bake  in  greased  and 
floured  tube  pan  in  a  325  degree  oven  for  1  hour  and  30  minutes. 

Icing: 

2  cups  sugar  1    stick  butter 

2  squares  chocolate  2/3    cup  evaporated  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  all  ingredients    Bring  to  boil,  and  cook  for  2  minutes.  Cool,  and  beat 
until  stiff  enough  to  spread 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Romeo  and  Juliet  Cake 

Juliet  —  One  cup  of  white  sugar,  whites  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten;  one  table- 
spoonfiil  of  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk   Romeo  —  One  cup  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonflil  of  butter,  yokes  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  flour,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  separate  tins    Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  lemon,  thicken  this  with  pulverized  sugar,  and  spread 
between  the  cakes 


127 


Sweets 


Apple  Pecan  Cake 


3 

2 
1 

2 
1 


eggs,  beaten 
cups  sugar 
teaspoon  salt 
teaspoons  vanilla 
cup  pecans,  chopped. 


1/2    cups  salad  oil 
3    cups  flour 
1    teaspoon  baking  soda 
3    cups  raw  apples,  finely 
chopped 


Mix  eggs,  salad  oil,  and  sugar.  In  a  separate  bowl,  sift  together  flour,  salt,  and 
baking  soda.  Add  to  the  egg  mixture,  then  add  vanilla,  apples,  and  pecans. 
Bake  in  a  13x9-inch  pan  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  45  minutes.  Cool  before 
adding  topping. 


Topping: 

1    stick  margarine 
1/4    cup  evaporated  milk 


1    cup  brown  sugar 

whipped  cream  (optional) 


Melt  margarine,  and  add  brown  sugar  and  milk  Cook  to  a  rolling  boil  Con- 
tinue boiling  for  2  or  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Makes  about  16  servings. 
Squares  can  be  topped  with  a  nice  dollop  of  whipped  cream. 


Mrs.  Burnham's  Fig  Cake 


One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sweet 

milk,  half  a  cup  of  cornstarch,  two  teaspoonfijls  of  baking  powder  mixed  in 

flour,  whites  of  four  eggs,  well  whipped  and  stirred  in  last.  Bake  the  cake  in 

round  tins  for  layers. 

Filling: 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  figs,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  sugar  in  five  table- 

spoonfiils  of  hot  water.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  turn  over  the  figs.  When  cooled 

spread  between  the  layers  of  the  cake    Makes  three  layers  of  cake  and  two  of 

figs. 


128 


Sweets 


Dr.  Byrd  Cake 

We  have  found  several  versions  of  this  cake,  variously  called  The  Humming- 
bird Cake,  the  Jamaican  Doctor  Bird  Cake,  Dr  Byrd's  Pound  Cake,  and  the  Dr. 
Byrd  Cake.  Some  recipes  leave  out  the  coconut,  substituting  the  pineapple. 
Some,  as  ours  does,  include  both    Our  research  tells  us  that  the  doctor  bird  is 
the  national  bird  of  Jamaica    It  seems  fitting  that  finding  bananas  in  such 
abundance  on  their  island,  the  Jamaicans  would  create  this  wonderful  combina- 
tion of  ingredients.  M.  &  M. 


3 
1 
1 

1  1/2 
2 
1 


cups  plain  flour 
teaspoon  soda 
teaspoon  salt 
teaspoons  vanilla 
cups  mashed  bananas 
cup  chopped  nuts 


2  cups  sugar 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  1/2  cups  oil 

3  eggs 

1  3 -ounce  package  coconut 

1  4  ounce  can  crushed 
pineapple,  undrained 


Mix  oil  and  sugar  Beat  eggs,  and  add  to  oil  mixture    Sift  dry  ingredients  and 
combine  with  oil  and  egg  mixture    Add  vanilla  and  nuts    Stir  in  bananas, 
coconut,  and  pineapple.  Bake  1  hour  at  350  degrees  in  a  bundt  pan,  a  tube 
pan,  or  2  loaf  pans    Cool  cake  before  icing 


Icing:    (Optional) 

1/2    cup  whipped  margarine, 
not  stick 
1    teaspoon  vanilla  extract 


1    8-ounce  package  cream 
cheese 
16    ounces  confectioners'  sugar, 
sifted 


Soften  margarine  and  cream  cheese.  Add  vanilla,  and  mix  with  a  spoon.  Work 
in  small  amounts  of  sugar  at  a  time  Icing  will  naturally  be  stiff"  Do  not  use  an 
electric  mixer. 


129 


Sweets 


Lemon  Poppy  Seed  Cake 


1 

package  yellow  cake  mix 

1/2 

cup  sugar 

'3 

cup  vegetable  oil 

1/4 

cup  water 

1 

cup  plain  nonfat  yogurt 

1 

cup  egg  substitute 

3 

Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2 

Tablespoons  poppy  seeds 

cooking  spray 

lemon  glaze 

In  a  large  mixing  bowl,  combine  cake  mix  and  sugar  Add  oil,  water,  yogurt, 
lemon  juice,  and  egg  substitute    Beat  at  medium  speed  for  6  minutes.  Stir  in 
poppy  seeds    Pour  batter  in  large  bundt  pan  that  has  been  sprayed  with  cook- 
ing spray   Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  about  40  minutes  or  until  toothpick 
comes  out  clean    Cool  in  pan  on  wire  rack.  Remove  from  pan,  drizzle  with 
lemon  glaze,  and  finish  cooling  process  on  wire  rack. 

Glaze: 

Combine  1/2  cup  sifted  powdered  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice    Stir 
until  smooth    Drizzle  over  cake. 


Perfect  Pound  Cake 


2 

cups  sugar 

1/2 

pound  butter 

5 

eggs 

3 

cups  sifted  flour 

1 

can  evaporated  milk 

1 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

1  1/2 

teaspoons  vanilla 

Preheat  oven  to  300  degrees.  Cream  butter    Add  a  little  sugar,  a  little  flour, 
and  a  little  milk,  then  add  1  egg.  Repeat  until  you  have  used  all  the  sugar, 
eggs,  and  flour,  and  1/2  cup  of  the  milk.  Add  flavoring    Beat  baking  powder 
into  the  remaining  1/2  cup  milk,  and  add  to  batter  Pour  into  well-greased  tube 
pan    Bake  1  1/2  hours  in  preheated  300  degree  oven. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  CaroUna 
130 


Sweets 


Sour  Cream  Coconut  Cake 


When  my  husband  worked  at  the  central  office  of  the  Virginia  Beach  School 
System,  any  special  occasion  would  bring  a  request  for  this  delicious  cake    He 
had  collected  the  recipe  some  years  earlier,  and  he  makes  it  like  no  one  else 
can    Yummmmmm!    MP. 

1  butter  yellow  cake  mix  2    cups  sugar 

2  cups  sour  cream  18    ounces  frozen  coconut 

Mix  cake  as  directed.  Bake  in  2  round  cake  pans  When  cool,  split  into  4 
layers    Mix  sugar,  sour  cream,  and  coconut.  Spread  on  each  layer  and  over 
top  and  sides  of  cake.  Store  in  airtight  container  in  refrigerator  for  3  to  5  days 
before  serving. 

Jane  Cheek,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Wedding  Cake 


Long  ago,  my  mother  told  me  that  the  wedding  cakes  she  remembered  from 
her  childhood  were  not  the  multilayered,  white-iced,  beauties  of  today,  but 
were  more  like  fruit  cakes    This  recipe  for  wedding  cake  seems  to  confirm  her 
recollection.  M.  P. 

Six  cups  of  butter,  three  pints  of  sugar,  six  pounds  of  raisins,  six  pounds  of 
currants,  two  pounds  of  citron,  two  pounds  of  shelled  almonds,  one  pint  of 
brandy,  one  tablespoonfijl  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  twenty  eggs,  three  quarts  of 
browned  flour,  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  spices,  fruits,  nuts 
and  brandy,  then  add  your  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  browned  flour  sifted. 
This  quantity  will  make  three  large  loaves,  and  will  keep  for  years    Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  four  hours. 


131 


Sweets 


Hermit  Cake 


This  recipe  was  given  to  us  by  my  husband's  mother    She  cooked  and  baked 
everything  well    This  hermit  cake,  though  more  popular  recently,  used  to  be 
rare  and  was  often  substituted  at  Christmastime  for  fruit  cake.  My  husband  is 
the  hermit  cake  baker  in  our  household  and  still  considers  this  a  holiday  cake. 
Although  he  doesn't  bake  them  every  year,  we  all  enjoy  them  when  he  does. 
He  and  his  sister  compare  notes  about  how  their  Hermit  Cakes  turn  out.    M.P. 

1  pound  butter  1    1/2    pounds  brown  sugar 
6    eggs  6    cups  flour 

2  scant  Tablespoons  lemon  2    Tablespoons  vanilla 
extract,  or  juice  and  grated  1    Tablespoon  cinnamon 
peel  of  1  lemon                                 1    pound  walnuts,  chopped 

1/2   cup  pecans,  chopped  2    pound  dates,  chopped 

1    teaspoon  baking  powder  sliced  apples 

apple  wine 

Reserve  a  few  walnut  halves.  Dredge  fruit  in  1/4  cup  flour,  set  aside.  (If  you 
wish,  you  may  omit  some  of  the  dates  and  use  raisins  instead.)  Cream  butter 
and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  and  beat  well.  Sift  flour,  cinnamon,  and  baking  powder 
together;  add  lemon  juice,  then  add  vanilla.  Mix  well,  add  fruit  and  nuts,  and 
mix  well  again.  Batter  will  be  very  stiff".   Spoon  and  scrape  into  2  greased  and 
floured  tube  pans.  Place  reserved  walnut  halves  on  top  of  batter  to  decorate 
cakes    Bake  in  a  275  degree  oven  for  2  1/2  hours.  Place  a  pan  of  hot  water  on 
the  lower  shelf  of  the  oven  while  cakes  are  baking.  Place  sliced  apples  on  top 
of  cakes  after  they  have  cooled.  Dampen  (do  not  wet)  a  paper  towel  or  cloth 
with  apple  wine,  and  drape  over  top  and  sides  of  cake.  Store  in  covered  tin. 
Cloth  may  need  to  be  dampened  from  time  to  time  during  storage.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place.  Baking  the  cakes  2  weeks  ahead  of  the  holidays  allows  time  for  the 
apple  and  wine  flavors  to  combine  with  the  flavors  in  the  cake. 

Mae  Hogan  Proffitt,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


132 


Sweets 


J^  Washington  and  Domestic  Cake 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  butter,  four  and  one-half 
pounds  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  pounds  of  lard,  five  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk, 
half  an  ounce  of  ammonia,  and  mace.  (Comment;  Fat  City!) 


Janie's  Lemon  Pound  Cake 


3 

cups  sugar 

3 

cups  flour  (sifted) 

6 

eggs 

1 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

1 

cup  milk 

2 

sticks  margarine 

'2 

cup  Crisco  shortening 

2 

Tablespoons  lemon  extract 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  sugar,  margarine,  and  shortening  until  very  smooth    Add  eggs,  and  beat 
well    Combine  baking  powder  with  sifted  flour.  Add  flour  mixture  to  creamy 
mixture  alternately  with  milk    Stir  in  lemon  and  vanilla  flavorings.    Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  1  hour  20  minutes    Do  not  open  oven  door  while  baking,  as 
the  cake  falls  easily.  Add  glaze  while  cake  is  still  warm. 

Glaze: 

2    cups  confectioners'  sugar  1/2    cup  Real  Lemon 

While  cake  is  warm,  dribble  top  with  spoonflils  of  glaze    Dip  a  paper  towel  in 
remaining  glaze  and  pat  sides  of  cake.  Store  in  airtight  container. 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


133 


Sweets 

Kentucky  Pound  Cake 

2  1/2  cups  self-rising  flour  2  cups  sugar 

1   1/4  cups  vegetable  oil  1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

4  eggs,  separated  2  Tablespoons  hot  water 

1   1/2  teaspoons  cinnamon  2  cups  chopped  pecans 

1  cup  black  walnuts 

Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees   First  beat  egg  whites,  and  set  aside    Drain 
pineapple,  and  save  juice  for  glaze    Beat  flour,  sugar,  salad  oil,  and  pineapple 
Add  egg  yolks,  cinnamon,  and  hot  water   Fold  nuts  into  beaten  egg  whites 
Fold  this  into  cake  mixture  at  low  speed.  Pour  into  prepared  tube  pan,  and 
bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour  10  minutes    Keeps  well  and  also  can  be  frozen. 

Glaze: 

1    cup  powdered  sugar  pineapple  juice 

Mix  sugar  and  enough  pineapple  juice  to  make  glaze  of  proper  consistency  to 
drizzle  over  top  of  cake. 

Dottie  Reynolds,  Lotiisa,  Virginia 


Old-Fashioned  Pound  Cake 

1    pound  butter  1    pound  sugar 

1    pound  flour  (3  1/4  cups)  10    eggs,  separated 

1/4   teaspoon  mace  or  nutmeg  2    Tablespoons  brandy 

Cream  butter  well,  and  gradually  add  the  sugar,  beating  after  each  addition 
Beat  the  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar 
mixture    Stir  in  brandy.  Sift  the  flour  and  mace  or  nutmeg,  and  add  aUemately 
with  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  to  the  butter  mixture    Pour  into  a  well- 
greased  fiinnel  cake  pan  or  bread  pan,  and  bake  in  a  300  degree  oven  for  1  and 
1/2  hours. 

134 


Sweets 


Bourbon  Walnut  Pound  Cake 

2 

cups  finely  chopped  walnuts 

1/2    cup  bourbon 

3  1/2 

cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour 

1  1/2    teaspoons  baking  powder 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

1/2    teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/2 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/4    teaspoon  cloves 

2 

cups  soft  butter  or  margarine 

2  1/2    cups  sugar 

8 

eggs,  well  beaten 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

1/2 

cup  bourbon 

Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees    Grease  well,  and  flour  a  10-inch  tube  pan. 
In  small  bowl,  combine  walnuts  and  1/2  cup  bourbon   Mix  well  Let  stand 
Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  spices    Set  aside    In  a  large  bowl, 
use  an  electric  mixer  on  medium  speed  to  beat  butter  with  sugar  until  light. 
Add  eggs  and  vanilla    Beat  at  high  speed  about  4  minutes,  occasionally  scrap- 
ing side  of  bowl  and  guiding  mixture  into  beaters  vAih  a  rubber  scraper  until 
the  mixture  is  thick  and  flufiy   At  low  speed,  gradually  beat  in  flour  mixture 
just  until  combined.  Stir  in  bourbon-walnut  mixture.  Turn  batter  into  prepared 
pan,  spreading  evenly   Bake  1  hour  and  10  minutes  or  until  cake  tester  in- 
serted in  center  comes  out  clean    Cool  in  pan  on  wire  rack  1 5  minutes.  Turn 
out  of  pan,  and  cool  completely  on  wire  rack    Soak  cheesecloth  in  1/2  cup 
bourbon    Wrap  cake  completely  in  cheesecloth,  then  in  foil    Refrigerate 
several  days.  To  serve,  slice  thinly.  Makes  1  large  pound  cake. 


J^    Granny's  Pound  Cake 


One  pound  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  butter,  8  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonfiil  of  rosewater  and  half  a  nutmeg 


135 


Sweets 


Brown  Sugar  Pound  Cake 


1    cup  butter 

1/2 

1    pound  light  brown  sugar 

1 

5    eggs 

3 

1/2   teaspoon  salt 

1 

1    cup  milk 

1 

I    cup  chopped  walnuts 

cup  shortening 
cup  granulated  sugar 
cups  sifted  flour 
teaspoon  baking  powder 
teaspoon  vanilla 


Beat  butter  and  shortening  together;  add  both  sugars.  Cream  until  light  and 
flufiy  Beat  in  eggs,  one  at  a  time  Sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  and  vanilla 
alternately.  Combine  mixtures,  and  stir  in  nuts.  Bake  in  tube  pan  for  1  hour 
and  45  minutes  at  350  degrees.  Prepare  glaze  and  pour  on  hot  cake. 


Walnut  glaze: 

1    cup  confectioners'  sugar, 
sifted 
1/2   teaspoon  of  vanilla 
1/2    cup  walnuts,  chopped 


2    Tablespoons  butter 
6    Tablespoons  cream,  or 
canned  milk 


Cream  sugar  and  butter.  Add  cream,  vanilla,  and  walnuts.  Pour  on  hot  cake. 


Minnehaha  Cake 


Two  eggs,  two  teaspoonftils  of  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Beat  the  sugar 
with  the  butter.  Bake  in  jelly-cake  tins.  Filling:  Boil  one  cup  of  granulated 
sugar  in  water  enough  to  moisten  it,  until  it  becomes  ropy.  Then  place  it  in  a 
basin  of  cold  water  to  cool.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  pour 
into  the  syrup  and  beat  until  cool,  then  add  one  cup  of  stoned  raisins. 


136 


Sweets 

Presbyterian  Pound  Cake 

2  3/4    cups  sugar  1/2    pound  butter 

1/2    cup  shortening  5    eggs 

1    cup  milk  3    cups  plain  flour 

1    teaspoon  baking  powder  2    teaspoons  almond,  lemon,  or 

vanilla  extract 

Cream  sugar,  butter,  and  shortening  together.  On  low  speed  of  mixer,  add  in 
the  following  order  the  eggs,  milk,  flour,  baking  powder,  and  extract    Grease  a 
bundt  or  tube  pan.  Pour  in  cake  batter,  and  place  in  a  cold  oven.  Set  heat  for 
325  degrees.  Bake  approximately  1  1/2  hours. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Do  Nothing  Cake 

2    cups  flour  2    cups  sugar 

2    eggs,  or  3,  if  small  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

1    teaspoon  soda  1/2   teaspoon  salt 

1    small  can  crushed  pineapple,  coconut  (optional) 
include  juice 

Mix  all  ingredients  by  hand    Pour  in  greased  and  floured  9x1 0-inch  pan    Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes. 

Icing: 

1    stick  margarine  1    small  can  evaporated  milk 

1    cup  white  sugar  coconut  and  nuts  (optional) 

Combine  margarine,  milk,  and  sugar  Cook  for  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat, 
and  add  coconut  and  crushed  nuts  if  desired. 

Ann  Proffitt  Wine,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


137 


Sweets 

Kentucky  Whiskey  Cake 

5  scant  cups  flour  1    pound  white  sugar 
1    cup  brown  sugar                            3/4    pound  butter 

6  eggs,  separated  and  beaten  1    pint  bourbon 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  1    pound  pecan  nut  meats 

2  teaspoons  nutmeg  1/2    pound  golden  raisins,  halved 
1    pound  red  candied  cherries,  or  1/2  pound  chopped  dates, 

cut  in  half  or  1/4  pound  each 

Sift  flour  before  measuring.  Dredge  pecans  in  a  little  of  the  flour,  and  set 
aside    Soak  cherries,  raisins,  and/or  dates  overnight  in  bourbon.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar  until  fluffy   Add  egg  yolks,  and  beat  well.  Mix  in  soaked  fixiit  and 
remaining  liquid.  Add  rest  of  flour,  nutmeg,  and  baking  powder  to  egg  yolk 
mixture.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites,  add  floured  pecans.  Heat  oven  to  250 
degrees.  Pour  batter  into  large,  greased  tube  pan  that  has  been  lined  with 
greased  paper   Bake  3  to  4  hours.  When  thoroughly  cool,  place  in  a  container 
with  tight  fitting  lid    Stuff  center  hole  of  cake  with  cheesecloth  soaked  in 
bourbon,  wrap  in  heavy  waxed  paper   Cover,  and  when  you  serve  it  for  the 
holidays,  the  cake  will  be  moist  and  flavorful    It  isn't  necessary  to  add  more 
whiskey  while  the  cake  is  stored,  but  you  may  if  you  wish. 


^    Queen  Cake 

Two  cupfuls  of  butter,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  pints  of 
flour,  8  eggs,  1  teaspoonflil  of  baking  powder,  one  wine  glass  each  of  wine, 
brandy,  and  cream,  teaspoonflil  each  of  extract  of  nutmeg,  rose  and  lemon. 
One  cup  of  currants,  mashed,  cup  of  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  in  two,  one  cup  of 
citron  cut  in  small  slices.  Bake  carefully  in  well-prepared  tins  in  a  moderate, 
steady  oven  one  and  one-half  hours 


138 


Oatmeal  Cake  Squares 


1 

cup  oatmeal,  quick  cooking 

1    1/2 

cups  boiling  water 

1 

stick  margarine 

1 

cup  white  sugar 

1 

cup  light  brown  sugar 

2 

eggs 

1/2 

cups  self-rising  flour 

1 

teaspoon  mace 

1 

teaspoon  soda 

1/4 

teaspoon  salt 

Sweets 


Sift  mace,  soda,  salt,  and  flour.  Pour  boiling  water  over  oatmeal  which  has 
been  put  in  a  large  mixing  bowl.  Add  margarine.  Stir.  Let  stand  until  cool. 
Add  sugar,  eggs  (not  necessary  to  beat  eggs),  and  dry  ingredients.  Mix  thor- 
oughly. (Electric  beater  will  be  fine  )  Pour  into  greased  9x1 3 -inch  pan    Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  35  to  45  minutes    Serves  about  12. 


Topping: 

1    cup  light  brown  sugar 

1    egg 

1    cup  coconut  (canned,  flaked) 


1  stick  margarine 

2  Tablespoons  milk 
1    cup  chopped  nuts 


Place  first  4  ingredients  in  saucepan  Stir,  and  cook  slowly  for  about  5  min- 
utes. Add  coconut  and  nuts  Pour  over  cake  while  cake  is  hot.  Then  put  in 
500  degree  oven  or  under  broiler  a  few  minutes    Watch  it  constantly. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Pink  Marble  Cake 


One  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  cornstarch,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  whites  of 
four  eggs,  one  cup  of  red  sugar  sand,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  three-quarters  of  a 
teaspoonflil  of  baking  powder   Flavor  to  taste. 


139 


Sweets 


J^  Grandmother's  Cake 

1    pound  confectioners'  sugar  3    sticks  Parkay 

6    eggs  3    cups  plus  2  Tablespoons  flour 

flavoring 

Cream  Parkay  and  sugar  with  hand    Then  beat  in  1  egg  at  a  time  until  all  6  are 
used    Divide  flour  into  4  parts  and  put  in  1/4  at  a  time.  Then  add  flavoring.  If 
a  little  dry,  add  2  or  3  tablespoons  milk.  Cook  in  tube  pan  1  hour  15  minutes 
at  325  degrees. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Carrot  Cake 

4  eggs  3  cups  grated  carrots 

1  1/4  cups  oil  2  Tablespoons  cinnamon 

2  cups  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  soda 

1  Tablespoon  vanilla  2  cups  self-rising  flour 

Mix  all  ingredients.  Pour  into  3  round  cake  pans.  Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven 
for  20  minutes 

Icing: 

1  pound  box  powdered  sugar  1    8-ounce  package  cream 

1  stick  margarine,  softened  cheese,  softened 

1  Tablespoon  vanilla  1    cup  chopped  pecans 

Mix  together  until  smooth.  Spread  between  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of 
cake. 

Joann  DeFiHppo,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


140 


Sweets 

Pineapple  Coconut  Cake  (Jim's  Birthday  Cake) 

This  cake  was  a  result  of  combining  my  husband's  two  favorite  cakes  into  one 
birthday  cake  He  enjoyed  the  cake  so  much  that  he  wanted  me  to  include  the 
recipe  in  this  book    M  D 

1    package  white  or  yellow  1    8-ounce  can  crushed 

cake  mix  pineapple,  drained 

1  cup  grated  coconut 

Prepare  and  bake  cake  as  directed  on  cake  mix  box    Use  2  round,  8-inch  layer 
pans    When  cake  has  cooled,  spread  the  pineapple  and  coconut  on  top  of  one 
layer   Cover  with  the  first  batch  of  icing    Place  the  other  cake  layer  on  top. 
Prepare  the  icing  recipe  again,  and  cover  the  top  and  sides  of  the  cake. 

Icing: 

2  unbeaten  egg  whites  1    1/2    cups  sugar 

1/4    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  5    tablespoons  cold  water 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  or 
almond  extract 

Mix  first  four  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Beat  with  electric  mixer  over 
boiling  water  for  7  minutes.  Remove  from  heat,  and  add  either  vanilla  or 
almond  extract.  After  covering  the  bottom  layer,  make  this  recipe  again,  to 
cover  the  top  layer  and  sides    I  use  vanilla  in  one  icing  recipe  and  almond 
extract  in  the  other   The  amount  of  pineapple  and  coconut  can  be  increased  or 
decreased  according  to  preference 

Mary  Stewart  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


141 


Sweets 


Icings 
W   Plain  Frosting 


1/8    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

2   1/2 

cups  granulated  sugar 

5    egg  whites 

3/4 

cup  water 

pinch  of  salt 

1 

teaspoon  lemon  juice,  or 

1/8 

teaspoon  tartaric  acid. 

Put  2  cups  sugar  in  saucepan  with  water,  and  stir  well    Cover  with  a  plate 
Never  move  the  syrup  while  cooking.  After  reaching  boiling  point,  then  boil 
rapidly.  Into  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  gradually  1/2  cup  sugar   When 
syrup  makes  big  bubbles,  test  it,  and  when  it  spins  its  first  thread,  it  is  done. 
Take  off"  of  fire  and  let  cool.  When  it  has  stopped  bubbling,  pour  slowly  over 
the  beaten  whites.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  steam.  Don't  allow  the  water  in 
lower  boiler  to  touch  the  boiler  that  contains  the  icing    Add  lemon  juice  or 
tartaric  acid.  If  icing  gets  too  thick,  add  a  few  drops  of  hot  water. 


^    Ivory  Frosting 


2    egg  whites,  unbeaten  1/4    cup  brown  sugar,  packed 

1  1/4    cups  granulated  sugar  5    Tablespoons  water 

1    teaspoon  vanilla 

Combine  egg  whites,  sugars,  and  water  in  top  of  double  boiler,  beating  with 
rotary  egg  beater  until  thoroughly  mixed    Place  over  rapidly  boiling  water; 
beat  constantly  with  rotary  beater,  and  cook  7  minutes  or  until  fi"osting  will 
stand  in  peaks    Remove  from  boiling  water,  add  vanilla,  and  beat  until  thick 
enough  to  spread 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


142 


Sweets 


^^   Marshmallow  Icing 


2    cups  sugar  1    cup  water 

1    Tablespoon  vinegar  2    egg  whites,  well-beaten 

1/4    pound  marshmallows 

Boil  sugar,  water,  and  vinegar  until  it  threads.  Stir  in  2  well-beaten  egg  whites 
Add  marshmallows. 


Ranch  Cake  Icing 

This  is  a  good,  quick,  and  easy  recipe  for  a  sheet  cake.  Mother  would  bake  the 
cake  ahead  of  time  —  usually  while  she  was  preparing  dinner   It  took  just  a 
few  minutes  to  spread  the  icing  on  the  cake,  run  it  under  the  broiler,  and  serve 
the  dessert    Perfect  with  ice  cream  or  a  cup  of  coffee!  M  D. 

2    cups  brown  sugar  Carnation  milk 

nuts 

Add  just  enough  milk  to  brown  sugar  so  it  will  spread    Add  nuts.  Spread  on  a 
partially  cooled  cake,  and  return  to  oven  until  icing  bubbles. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Chocolate  Icing 

6    Tablespoons  milk  1    stick  butter 

1    Tablespoon  cocoa  1    box  powdered  sugar 

1    cup  pecans,  chopped 

Combine  milk,  butter,  and  cocoa.  Bring  to  a  boil    Remove  from  heat,  add 
sugar.  Mix  well,  and  add  pecan  pieces    Pour  over  sheet  cake  while  hot. 


143 


Sweets 

Grandmother  Proffitt's  Caramel  Filling 

Annie  Fox  ProfFitt,  my  husband's  grandmother,  used  this  recipe  many  years 
ago.  Notes  from  her  cookbook,  pubhshed  in  1890,  are  responsible  for  some  of 
the  delightful  "granny"  selections  included  in  these  pages.  Annie  was  born  in 
1865    Sarah  Lewis  Fox,  Annie's  mother,  had  driven  from  Virginia  into  West 
Virginia  to  get  her  husband,  Patrick  Fox,  who  was  being  held  in  a  Union 
Prisoner  of  War  Camp    Apparently,  the  rough  travel  hastened  Annie's  birth,  as 
she  made  her  appearance  in  the  back  of  the  horse  drawn  cart  being  used  for  the 
journey.  Annie's  mother  must  certainly  have  suffered  no  lasting  effects  of  the 
event,  because  7  additional  children  were  later  born  to  Sarah  and  Patrick    MP. 

3    cups  brown  sugar  3/4    cup  butter 

3/4    cup  cream 

Boil  ingredients  together  until  thick  enough  to  crack  in  water.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  Spread  while  hot  between  layers  and  over  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Amiie  Fox  Prqffitt,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


Fruit  Nut  Filling 


1/3 

cup  chopped  dates 

1/3    cup  chopped  raisins 

3/4 

cup  sugar 

1    cup  water 

1/3 

cup  walnuts 

1    Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1 

teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 

Combine  dates,  raisins,  sugar,  and  water  in  saucepan.  Cook  over  low  flame  1 5 
minutes  or  until  thick  enough  to  spread,  stirring  constantly   Cool.  Add  nuts, 
lemon  juice,  and  rind    Chill  before  spreading  on  cake 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


144 


Sweets 

Grandmother  Stewart's  Caramel  Filling 

Every  Christmas  dinner  and  sometimes  for  other  special  occasions,  we  would 
have  a  caramel  cake    We  were  always  told  it  was  Grandmother's  wonderful 
recipe,  and  it  wouldn't  be  Christmas  without  a  cake  with  this  special  icing    It 
was  truly  a  family  favorite!  M  D 

1    1 -pound  box  light  brown  1/3    pound  butter 

sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

milk  (1/3  cup  approx.) 

Mix  the  brown  sugar  and  milk  in  a  pot .  Let  this  boil  up  good  before  adding 
butter  Cook  until  soft  ball  forms  when  dropped  in  cold  water  Beat  thor- 
oughly. Add  the  vanilla.  It  hardens  very  quickly,  so  keep  it  warm  until 
finished. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


^   Seven  Minute  Icing 


1  3/4    cups  of  sugar  5    Tablespoons  water 

2    egg  whites,  unbeaten  1    teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  all  together  in  a  double  boiler.  Put  over  boiling  water,  and  beat  with  rotary 
beater  exactly  7  minutes.  Remove  fi"om  heat,  beat  until  it  will  stand  in  peaks. 


Coconut  Icing 


11/2    cups  sugar  1/3    cup  orange  juice 

2    egg  whites,  unbeaten  coconut 

Use  same  directions  as  for  Seven  Minute  Icing  (See  above  recipe  ) 


145 


Sweets 

Lemon  Filling 

2  cups  sugar  1  to  2    cups  water 

3  lemons,  rind  and  juice  2    egg  whites 

Boil  water  and  sugar  together  to  soft  ball  stage.  Beat  egg  whites  until  very 
stiff.  Slowly  pour  hot  liquid  into  beaten  egg  whites,  add  rind  and  lemon  juice 
last.  Spread  between  layers  and  over  top  and  sides  of  cakes. 


Cream  Cheese  Frosting 

1    8-ounce  package  cream  1/2    stick  margarine 

cheese  1    box  powdered  sugar 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  few  drops  of  milk 
chopped  nuts 

In  a  chilled  bowl,  beat  cream  cheese  with  margarine    Gradually  add  powdered 
sugar    Stir  in  vanilla;  mix  well.  Add  a  little  milk,  if  needed.  Spread  on  cake 
and  sprinkle  nuts  over  top. 


Mocha  Frosting 

1/3    cup  butter  or  margarine  3    cups  confectioners'  sugar 

2    squares  unsweetened,  1/4    cup  (about)  strong,  cold 

chocolate,  melted  coffee 

Cream  butter  or  margarine  until  very  soft  Continue  to  cream  while  adding  in 
half  of  the  sugar   Add  chocolate;  mix  well    Gradually  stir  in  rest  of  sugar  Add 
coSee  1  tablespoon  at  a  time  until  frosting  is  fluffy  and  easy  to  spread    Makes 
enough  to  fill  and  frost  a  2-layer  cake. 


146 


Sweets 


Candies  and  Cookies 
Candies 


Fondant  Candy 

Into  one  tumbler,  put  the  white  of  an  egg,  and,  in  a  second  tumbler,  water 
reaching  to  the  same  height    Combine  in  a  mixing  bowl,  and  add  confectioners' 
sugar  enough  to  make  a  consistency  that  will  mold,  stirring  well    Use  this 
mixture,  called  fondant,  in  making  various  candies  as  follows:  Make  balls  the 
size  of  marbles,  and  put  between  halves  of  English  walnuts,  pecans,  or  butter- 
nuts, which  press  together  so  that  a  rounded  edge  of  the  fondant  extends 
beyond  the  nut  meats.  Make  tiny  balls  of  the  fondant,  and  with  them  stuff 
candied  cherries.  Make  larger  balls  to  stuff  dates  or  small  figs.  Mix  chopped 
nuts  with  a  part  of  the  fondant,  place  on  a  molding  board  dusted  with  the 
sugar,  roll  until  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  squares,  dip  in  granulated  sugar, 
making  "nut  hamlins  "  Make  some  of  the  fondant  into  thimble-sized  balls,  and 
dip,  using  a  wooden  toothpick,  into  unsweetened  mehed  chocolate;  place  on 
paraffin  paper  to  cool.  There  is  hardly  any  limit  to  the  goodies  you  can  con- 
coct in  the  candy  line  with  this  foundation.  Birch-bark  boxes,  lined  with  fancy 
paper,  make  pretty  containers. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Marshmallow  Drops 

Dissolve  one-half  pound  of  gum  arable  in  one  pint  of  water,  strain  and  add 
one-half  pound  of  white  sugar,  and  place  over  the  fire,  stirring  constantly  until 
the  syrup  is  dissolved  and  of  the  consistency  of  honey,  then  add  gradually  the 
whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten    Stir  the  mixture  until  it  becomes  somewhat 
thin  and  does  not  adhere  to  the  fingers    Flavor  to  taste,  and  pour  all  into  a  pan 
slightly  dusted  with  powdered  starch,  and  when  cool,  divide  into  small  squares. 


147 


SM'eets 

Sea  Foam  Candy 

3    cups  white  sugar  1/2  cup  Blue  Label  Karo  Symp 

1    cup  water  3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

1    Tablespoon  fresh  lemon  juice  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
nuts,  chopped 

Cook  sugar,  syrup,  and  water  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Pour  over  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites    Add  lemon  juice,  vanilla,  and  nuts    Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  waxed 
paper. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Divinity  Fudge 

2  2/3    cups  white  sugar  2  2/3    cups  Karo  Blue  Label  syrup 

2/3    cup  water  2    egg  whites,  beaten 

1    cup  chopped  almonds 

Combine  sugar,  syrup,  and  water   Boil  until  it  will  make  a  bead  in  cold  water. 
Pour  over  the  beaten  egg  whites,  add  the  almonds,  and  beat.  Pour  into  a 
buttered  dish,  and  cut  into  squares  when  cool 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Fudgemallow  Candy 

1    1 2-ounce  package  semi-sweet  4    cups  miniature  marshmallows 

chocolate  pieces  1    cup  chunky  peanut  butter 

Melt  chocolate  pieces  with  peanut  butter  in  saucepan  over  low  heat,  stirring 
until  smooth.  Fold  in  marshmallows    Pour  into  greased  9-inch  square  pan, 
chill  until  firm.  Cut  into  squares. 


148 


Sweets 


Fabulous  Fudge 


1/4    cups  sugar  3/4 

16    large  marshmallows,  or  1/4 

1    cup  marshmallow  creme  1/4 

1    6-ounce  package  Hershey's  1 

semi-sweet  chocolate  pieces  1 


cup  evaporated  milk 
cup  butter  or  margarine 
teaspoon  salt 
cup  chopped  pecans 
teaspoon  vanilla 


Mix  sugar,  milk,  marshmallows,  butter,  and  sah  in  heavy  2-quart  saucepan 
Cook  over  medium  heat  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Boil,  and  stir  5  minutes 
more.  Take  oflf  heat    Add  chocolate  pieces,  and  stir  until  mehed    Stir  in 
pecans  and  vanilla    Spread  in  8-inch  buttered  pan,  and  cut  into  squares  when 
cool. 

Sara  S.  Gabel,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


3  cups  white  sugar 

1/2  cup  white  syrup 

1  Tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


Fudge  Candy 


3    squares  chocolate 
1    cup  Carnation  milk  or  1  small 
can  plus  a  little  water 


Mix  sugar,  chocolate,  syrup,  and  milk  together.  Cook  over  slow  heat    Don't 
let  it  boil  until  after  sugar  and  chocolate  have  dissolved.  Stir  often,  cook  until 
a  small  amount  dropped  into  water  forms  a  soft  ball.  Mix  in  butter  and  vanilla, 
but  don't  beat  until  mixture  has  cooled.  Then  beat  until  it  creams  (a  long  time). 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


149 


Sweets 

Aunt  Seignie  Jennette's  Chocolate  Fudge 

Mother  always  said  this  was  the  best  fudge  she  had  ever  eaten,  and  that  Aunt 
Seignie  was  just  as  sweet  as  the  fudge  she  made.    M.D. 

1    pound  Ught  brown  sugar  3    squares  chocolate 

1/2    of  a  tall  can  of  milk  1/2  jar  of  marshmallow  creme 

nuts,  if  desired 

Melt  chocolate    Add  sugar  and  milk    Cook  to  soft  ball  stage    Remove  from 
stove    Add  marshmallow  creme    Add  nuts,  if  desired.  Beat  until  it  is  ready  to 
pour.  It  takes  lots  of  beating. 


Million  Dollar  Fudge 

4  1/2   cups  sugar  pinch  salt 

2    Tablespoons  butter  1    tall  can  evaporated  milk 

1    12-ounce  package  semi-sweet  1    12-ounce  package  German 

chocolate  bits  sweet  chocolate 

1    pint  marshmallow  creme  2    cups  nut  meats 

In  a  saucepan,  combine  sugar,  sah,  butter,  and  milk  and  boil  for  6  minutes.  In 
a  large  bowl,  combine  the  chocolates,  marshmallow  creme,  and  nuts.  Pour 
boiling  syrup  over  these  ingredients,  and  beat  until  the  chocolate  is  mehed 
Pour  into  a  pan  to  cool    Let  stand  a  few  hours  before  cutting    Place  in  a  tin 
box,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. 

Elsie  Lockhart,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


150 


Sweets 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 

2    cups  sugar  1   1/2    cups  marshmallow  creme 

1    cup  crunchy  peanut  butter  2/3    cup  milk 

1    teaspoon  vanilla 

Cook  sugar  with  milk  to  soft  ball  stage    Add  remaining  ingredients,  stir  until 
well-blended    Turn  mixture  into  9x9-inch  buttered  pan.  Cut  into  squares. 
Makes  2  pounds 

Kempsville  High  School.  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Microwave  Pecan  Brittle 

1    cup  granulated  sugar  1/2   cup  white  com  syrup 

1    cup  pecan  pieces  1    teaspoon  butter 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  1    teaspoon  baking  soda 

In  1  1/2-quart  casserole,  stir  together  sugar  and  syrup.  Cook  in  microwave  on 
high  setting  for  4  minutes.  Stir  in  pecan  pieces.  Microwave  on  high  3  to  5 
minutes,  until  light  brown.  Add  butter  and  vanilla  to  syrup,  blending  well. 
Microwave  on  high  1  to  2  minutes  more.  Pecans  will  be  lightly  browned  and 
syrup  very  hot.  Add  soda,  and  gently  stir  until  light  and  foamy   Pour  mixture 
onto  lightly  greased  cookie  sheet  or  unbuttered  nonstick  cookie  sheet    Let 
cool  1/2  to  1  hour.  When  cool,  break  in  small  pieces,  and  store  in  airtight 
container.  (Cooking  times  may  vary  with  the  wattage  of  your  microwave.) 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Corn  Balls 

Boil  one  cupful  of  molasses  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  twenty  minutes. 
When  done,  rub  one-half  of  a  teaspoonflil  of  soda  smooth;  then  stir  in  popcorn. 
Butter  the  hands,  and  ball. 

151 


Sweets 

Pralines 

2    cups  light  brown  sugar  1/4    cup  butter 

2    cups  small  pecan  pieces  1/4    cup  water 

Combine  sugar  and  butter  with  water.  Set  candy  thermometer  in  pan    Cook 
over  low  heat  until  mixture  boils,  stirring  continuously   Add  pecans,  and  cook 
until  temperature  reaches  248  degrees,  stirring  all  the  while.  Remove  from 
heat;  drop  by  tablespoonfUls  into  a  buttered  shallow  pan.  Makes  about  1 
pound. 

Peanut  Butter  Chewy 


1/2 

cup  sugar 

1/2 

cup  margarine 

1/2 

cup  peanut  butter 

1 

egg 

2 

Tablespoons  milk 

1/2 

cup  brown  sugar 

1 

teaspoon  soda 

1   3/4 

cups  flour 

3/4 

cups  rolled  oats 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

Cream  together  sugars,  margarine,  peanut  butter,  egg,  and  milk.  Add  rest  of 
ingredients.  Mix  well.  If  batter  seems  too  stiff,  add  a  little  more  milk   Bake  at 
350  degrees  in  a  9  x  12-inch  pan  until  done. 

Central  Office,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia  School  System 


^  Candy  for  Children 


Take  equal  parts  of  nuts,  raisins,  dates,  and  figs,  if  desired.  Grind  them  in  the 
meat  chopper  Mix  all  together  and  form  into  balls  about  the  size  of  walnuts 
Roll  balls  in  powdered  or  granulated  sugar  and  wrap  each  ball  in  a  small  piece 
of  oiled  paper,  twisting  both  ends  of  paper   Eat  them  after  lunch  or  dinner  — 
not  between  meals. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 
152 


Sweets 

Sugar  Coated  Peanuts 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1/2    cup  water 

2  cups  raw,  shelled  peanuts, 
skin  on 

Dissolve  sugar  in  water  in  saucepan  over  medium  heat.  Add  peanuts,  continue 
to  cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  frequently.  Cook  until  peanuts  are  com- 
pletely sugared.  Nuts  should  be  coated,  with  no  syrup  remaining  in  pan  Pour 
mixture  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet,  separating  peanuts,  and  bake  in  a  300 
degree  oven  for  approximately  30  minutes.   Stir  at  5  minute  intervals. 


Noodle  Candy 

This  recipe  came  to  me  from  a  student  teacher  with  whom  I  worked  early  in 
my  teaching  career   My  children  were  small  then,  and  it  was  wonderfijl  to  have 
a  recipe  that  they  liked  and  that  could  be  prepared  so  quickly.    M.P. 

1    large  can  Chinese  noodles  1    cup  nuts,  your  choice 

18    ounces  butterscotch  morsels 

Melt  morsels  in  double  boiler,  then  mix  other  ingredients.  Drop  by  spoonfuls 
onto  waxed  paper. 


Peanut  Candy 

3    cups  sugar  3/4    cup  Karo  Syrup 

butter,  size  of  walnut  1    cup  water 

3    cups  peanuts,  crushed  1/3    cup  evaporated  milk 

Dissolve  sugar  in  water  Add  syrup  and  cook  until  it  spins  a  thread.  Beat  in 
milk  and  butter,  stir  in  peanuts.  Pour  onto  buttered  dish.  Before  completely 
cooled,  cut  into  squares 


153 


Sweets 


Cookies 


Nutty  Fingers 

Mother  made  these  every  Christmas.  My  children  love  them  as  much  as  I  do, 
and  my  sister  and  I  continue  the  tradition  of  making  nutty  fingers  every 
December    M.D. 


1   1/4  sticks  butter,  or  oleo 

1  Tablespoon  cold  water 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  nuts,  chopped 


4    Tablespoons  confectioners' 

sugar 
2     cups  flour,  sifted 

confectioners'  sugar 


Cream  together  butter,  sugar,  water,  and  vanilla.  Add  flour  and  nuts.  Shape 
into  fingers.  Place  on  a  lightly  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  325  degree  oven 
for  about  15  minutes.  Let  cool  in  pan.  When  cool,  roll  in  confectioners'  sugar 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Chocolate  Chip  Cookies 


1 

package  Duncan  Hines  White 

1/2 

cup  vegetable  oil 

Deluxe  Cake  mix 

2 

Tablespoons  water 

2 

eggs 

1 

6-ounce  package  semi-sweet 

/2 

cup  nuts,  chopped 

chocolate  bits 

Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees  Blend  cake  mix,  oil,  water,  and  eggs  Stir  in 
chocolate  bits  and  nuts.  Drop  ft^om  teaspoon  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  for  10  to  12  minutes    Cool  on  cookie  sheet  for  1  minute. 


154 


Sweets 


Toffee  Bars 


1/2  pound  butter 

2  cups  plain  flour 

1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 


cup  light  brown  sugar 
6-ounce  package  chocolate 
bits 


Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.  Mix  in  flour,  chocolate  bits,  nuts,  and 
vanilla.  Spoon  into  ungreased  9  x  12-inch  pan;  pat  smooth.  Bake  in  350 
degree  oven  for  25  minutes    While  hot,  cut  into  bars 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroHna 


Fudge  Squares 


1  stick  butter 

3  eggs 

3/4  cup  cocoa 

1  cup  nut  meats 


1  1/4    cups  sugar 
1    cup  flour 
1    teaspoon  baking  powder 


1    teaspoon  vanilla 


Cream  butter  and  sugar   Add  eggs,  unbeaten,  one  at  a  time    In  another  bowl, 
mix  flour,  cocoa,  and  baking  powder   Add  to  butter  and  sugar  mixture.  Stir  in 
nuts  and  vanilla    Spread  onto  greased  pan,  and  cook  in  350  degree  oven  30 
minutes    Cut  into  squares. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 

Pie  Crust  Cookies 

1    package  pie  crust  mix  1    cup  brown  sugar 

1    egg 

Beat  egg,  and  mix  with  sugar  and  pie  crust  mix..  Form  into  roll.  Chill,  and 
slice    Bake  in  350  degree  oven   Nuts  may  be  added,  if  desired 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


155 


Sweets 

Bake  and  Forget  'em 

2    egg  whites  2/3    cup  sugar 

1/2   teaspoon  vanilla  1    6-ounce  package  chocolate 

1    cup  nuts,  chopped  bits 

Important!  Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees,  line  pan  with  foil,  and  grease  before 
preparing  recipe.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Continue  to  beat,  gradually 
adding  sugar  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  chocolate  bits  and  nuts.  Drop  by  spoonflils 
onto  cookie  sheet  lined  with  greased  aluminum  foil.  Place  in  preheated  oven. 
Turn  oven  off  and  leave  for  5  to  6  hours  or  overnight  if  possible,  until  thor- 
oughly cooled.  Makes  about  2  dozen   Recipe  can  be  easily  doubled. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Brownies 

These  are  delicious!  This  recipe  is  from  a  friend  who  truly  enjoys  cooking. 
MD 

4  squares  chocolate  1/2  cup  butter 

4  eggs  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

1  cup  flour,  sifted  1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

Meh  together  chocolate  and  butter.  Cool.  Beat  eggs  until  light;  add  salt    Add 
sugar  gradually,  and  beat  until  light  and  creamy.  Fold  into  chocolate  mixture. 
Add  vanilla  and  1  cup  sifted  flour  Beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Fold  in  nuts. 
Pour  in  buttered  and  floured  9x1 3-inch  pan    Bake  for  25  to  30  minutes  in  a 
325  degree  oven. 

Joan  Manuel,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


156 


Sweets 


Sour  Cream  Brownies 

1  cup  margarine  1    cup  water 
4    Tablespoons  cocoa                           2    cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  /2    teaspoon  salt 

2    eggs  1/2    cup  sour  cream 

1    teaspoon  baking  soda 

In  a  saucepan,  bring  margarine,  water,  and  cocoa  to  a  boil.  Do  not  cool. 
Combine  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  in  mixing  bowl,  add  the  hot  cocoa  mixture 
Beat  in  the  eggs,  sour  cream,  and  soda.  Pour  in  a  greased  pan,  and  bake  at 
350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Frost  while  hot. 

Frosting: 

1    cup  margarine  4  Tablespoons  cocoa 

6    Tablespoons  milk  3   1/2  cups  powdered  sugar 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

In  a  saucepan,  bring  margarine,  cocoa,  and  milk  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly. 
While  hot,  add  the  sugar,  nuts,  and  vanilla    Spread  on  hot  brownies    Cool, 
and  cut  into  squares. 


Nut  Cookies 

1  cup  nuts,  grated  1/2    cup  margarine  or  butter 

2  Tablespoons  granulated  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 
1    cup  cake  flour  powdered  sugar 

Cream  margarine,  and  add  sugar.  Add  flour,  nuts,  and  vanilla,  mix  well    Drop 
by  spoon  onto  lightly  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  10  to  15  minutes  in  325 
degree  oven.    Roll  in  powdered  sugar  while  still  hot  and  again  when  cooled. 


157 


Sweets 


Chocolate  Syrup  Brownies 

1/2  cup  butter  or  margarine  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  1  cup  all  purpose  flour,  sifted 

1/4  teaspoon  baking  soda  3/4  cup  chocolate  syrup,  canned 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  3/4  cup  nuts,  chopped 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy   Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating 
after  each  addition.  Sift  flour  and  soda  together   Add  ahernately  with  the 
chocolate  syrup  to  creamed  mixture.  Blend  in  vanilla  and  nuts    Pour  into  a 
greased  and  floured  9xl3x2-inch  pan    Bake  at  350  degrees  for  40  to  45 
minutes. 

Frosting: 

1/4    cup  butter  or  margarine,  1/4    cup  canned  chocolate  syrup 

softened  2    cups  sifted  powdered  sugar 

Blend  butter  and  chocolate    Gradually  blend  in  sugar.  Spread  on  top  of 
cooled  brownies    Cut  into  squares 

Sara  S.  Gabel,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Nellie  Faye's  Date  Bars 


1    box  light  brown  sugar 

2    cups  flour 

4    eggs 

1    cup  nuts,  chopped 

'2   package  dates,  chopped 

Mix  in  order;  sugar,  flour,  eggs,  nuts,  dates  Pour  into  greased  9x1 3-inch  pan 
Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  20  minutes  or  until  top  lightly  browns  Cool  and 
cut  into  squares. 


158 


Sweets 

No-Bake  Delight  Bars 

whole  graham  crackers  2  sticks  margarine 

1    cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1    egg,  beaten  1  cup  graham  cracker  crumbs 

1/2    cup  coconut  1/2  cup  nuts,  chopped 

Line  bottom  of  9x1 3 -inch  pan  with  whole  graham  crackers    Cook  together 
margarine,  sugar,  milk,  and  beaten  egg.  Cook  until  mixture  coats  spoon.  Let 
cool.  Stir  in  graham  cracker  crumbs,  coconut,  and  nuts    Pour  over  whole 
crackers  already  in  pan,  top  with  another  layer  of  whole  crackers    Coat  with 
glaze. 

Glaze: 

1    cup  powdered  sugar  2    Tablespoons  margarine 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  warm  water 

Melt  margarine,  and  stir  in  sugar  and  vanilla.  Add  just  enough  warm  water  so 
that  it  will  spread  easily.  Cut,  and  remove  from  pan  with  spatula. 


Black  Walnut  Ice-Box  Cookies 


'2 

pound  mehed  butter 

1 

cup  white  sugar 

2 

eggs 

1 

cup  brown  sugar 

1 

Tablespoon  cinnamon 

3 

cups  flour 

1 

teaspoon  soda 

2 

teaspoons  vanilla 

1 

cup  black  walnuts,  chopped 

Beat  eggs,  and  combine  with  melted  butter   Mix  in  other  ingredients;  form  into 
a  roll    Wrap  roll  in  waxed  paper,  and  refrigerate  until  very  cold    Cut  into 
thin  shces.  Bake  on  a  cookie  sheet  for  10  minutes  in  a  375  degree  oven. 


159 


Sweets 


1 

2 
1/2 
1/2 

1 


Lemon  Bars 


cup  flour 

eggs 

cups  brown  sugar 

teaspoon  baking  powder 

teaspoon  vanilla 


1/2    cup  melted  butter 

1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

2  Tablespoons  flour 
1/3    teaspoon  salt 

glaze 


Combine  1  cup  flour  and  melted  butter,  spread  in  bottom  of  a  9x1 2-inch  pan. 
Bake  for  12  minutes  in  a  350  degree  oven.  Combine  other  ingredients,  and 
spread  on  top  of  baked  crust.  Bake  for  25  minutes  in  a  350  degree  oven. 

Glaze: 

1     cup  powdered  sugar  2    Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Mix  well,  spread  while  hot,  before  cutting  into  bars 

Macadamia  Nut  Balls 


1 

cup  butter  or  margarine 

1/2 

cup  granulated  sugar 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

2  1/4 

cups  all-purpose  flour, 

4 

teaspoon  salt 

sifted 

1 

cup  macadamia  nuts, 
finely  chopped 

confectioners'  sugar 

Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees.  In  a  large  bowl  with  electric  mixer  on  medium 
speed,  cream  butter  until  fluffy.  Gradually  beat  in  sugar  and  vanilla    Sift  flour 
with  sah,  stir  into  mixture.  Stir  in  nuts  until  well  distributed    Shape  mixture 
into  1-inch  balls,  and  place  on  ungreased  cookie  sheets    Bake  12  minutes  or 
until  cookies  just  start  to  brown.  (Cookies  should  remain  light  in  color)  Let 
cool  a  few  minutes  on  cookie  sheet.  While  still  warm,  roll  in  confectioners' 
sugar  Makes  about  3  1/2  dozen. 

Sara  S.  Gabel,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


160 


Sweets 

Desserts 


Angel  Food  Cake  Dessert 

Be  sure  to  prepare  this  the  day  before,  or  at  least  several  hours  before  you  plan 
to  serve  it    This  is  an  especially  pretty  dessert  served  either  on  a  plate  or 
prepared  and  served  in  a  clear  bowl  (like  trifle).  M.D. 

1  large  angel  food  cake  6  lemons 

6  eggs,  separated  1  cup  sugar 

1  envelope  Knox  gelatin  3/4  cup  sugar,  or  less 

1/4  cup  cold  water 

Break  cake  into  pieces  about  1  inch  in  size.  Extract  juice  from  all  of  the 
lemons,  and  grate  rind  of  1  or  2  of  them    Beat  egg  yolks,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and 
beat  again    Add  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
slightly  thick    Remove  from  stove    Soften  gelatin  in  1/4  cup  cold  water,  add 
to  mixture    Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  Beat  in  3/4  cup  or  less  of  sugar.  Fold 
egg  whites  into  cooked  mixture.  Oil  tube  cake  pan  with  vegetable  oil.  Put  a 
layer  of  cake  pieces  in  bottom  of  pan,  add  a  layer  of  lemon  sauce  mixture. 
Continue  alternating  layers,  finishing  with  lemon  sauce.  Place  in  refrigerator 
overnight.  Run  knife  around  edge  of  pan,  turn  cake  out  onto  a  large  plate  or 
platter.  Cover  with  slightly  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


161 


Sweets 

Minted  Angel  Allegretti 

1    angel  food  cake  2  1/2    cups  miniature  marsh- 

1/2    cup  milk  mallows 

1    cup  creme  de  menthe  1/4    teaspoon  salt 

4  to  6    drops  green  food  coloring  1    pint  chilled  whipping  cream 
1    1  -ounce  package  meked 
chocolate  (Baker's) 

Split  cake  into  3  layers.  Heat  marshmallows  and  milk  over  medium  heat, 
stirring  occasionally  until  marshmallows  are  melted  —  about  5  minutes.  Re- 
move from  heat,  cool  at  room  temperature  until  thickened  —  about  20  to  25 
minutes.  Stir  in  creme  de  menthe,  salt,  and  food  coloring.  Beat  whipping 
cream  in  chilled  small  bowl  until  stiflF  peaks  form.  Fold  into  marshmallow 
mixture.  Stack  cake  layers,  filling  each  with  1  cup  of  the  filling.  Frost  sides  of 
cake  with  filling  that  is  left.  Drizzle  chocolate  around  the  top  edge  of  cake, 
allowing  to  run  down  the  sides    Refrigerate  until  serving  time 

Helen  Stewart,  Shallotte,  North  Carolina 


Tipsy  Cake  No.  1 


Make  a  velvet  sponge  cake  the  day  before.  Make  a  boiled  custard  as  follows: 
To  1  quart  of  milk,  add  four  tablespoonfiils  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and 
the  whites  of  2.  Boil  the  milk  and  pour  slowly  over  the  eggs  and  sugar.  Place 
on  the  stove  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  it  becomes  a  little  thick.  Re- 
move from  the  fire.  Strain  and  flavor  with  vanilla    Have  ready  1  pint  of  cream, 
slightly  sweetened,  and  1/2  pound  of  blanched  almonds    Break  the  sponge 
cake  into  pieces  and  put  a  layer  of  the  pieces  in  a  large  bowl,  stick  thickly  with 
the  almonds    Saturate  with  good  scuppernong  wine  or  claret.  Pour  over  some 
of  the  custard  and  then  some  of  the  whipped  cream.  Add  another  layer  of  cake 
and  proceed  in  the  same  way  until  as  many  layers  are  used  as  you  wish    Lastly, 
pour  over  the  remaining  custard  and  pile  the  whipped  cream  on  top. 


162 


Sweets 


Tipsy  Cake  No.  2 


1    angel  food  cake  1/2 

1    pound  confectioners'  sugar  5 

1/2    cup  bourbon  whiskey  1 

1/4    pound  macaroon  crumbs,  if 
desired 


pound  butter 

egg  yolks 

cup  pecans,  chopped 


Split  angel  food  cake  into  3  layers.  In  a  bowl,  cream  butter,  and  add  sugar 
slowly.  Beat  well    Add  egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  between  each. 
Add  bourbon,  pecans,  and  macaroon  crumbs.  Put  this  filling  between  the 
layers    Cover  cake,  refrigerate  for  a  day  or  two.    Frost  just  before  serving. 


Frosting: 

1  pint  cream,  whipped 

2  Tablespoons  whiskey 
1/4    pound  macaroon  crumbs 


2    Tablespoons  sugar 
1/4    pound  almonds,  toasted  and 
chopped 


Combine  whipped  cream,  sugar,  and  whiskey.  Frost  cake.  Sprinkle  almonds 
and  macaroon  crumbs  on  top 


Biscuit  Tortoni 


2  1/2    cups  crushed  macaroon  1 

cookies 
6    Tablespoons  candied  cherries         1/2 
or  maraschino  cherries 


large  can  mixed,  salted  nuts, 

chopped 

gallon  vanilla  ice  cream 


Place  softened  ice  cream  into  large  bowl    Pour  other  ingredients  on  top,  and 
stir.  Quickly  spoon  dessert  into  crinkled  baking  cups  which  have  been  placed  in 
muffin  tins    Put  in  fi^eezer  until  serving  time. 

Sara  S.  Gabel,  Washington,  North  CaroUna 


163 


Sweets 

Chocolate  Eclair  Dessert 

1    large  package  instant  vanilla       1    1/2    cups  milk 

pudding  mix  1    large  container  Cool  Whip 

1    box  graham  crackers 

Mix  pudding  with  milk.  Fold  in  the  Cool  Whip    Put  layer  of  crackers  in 
bottom  of  9x1 3 -inch  pan    Add  layer  of  pudding.  Continue  layers,  ending  with 
graham  crackers    Top  with  glaze. 

Glaze: 

1  cup  sugar  1/3    cup  cocoa 

1/4  cup  milk  1    stick  margarine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

In  a  saucepan,  combine  sugar,  cocoa,  and  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil,  boil  for  1 
minute    Remove  from  heat,  and  add  margarine  and  vanilla    Cool  completely. 
Spread  over  top  layer  of  graham  crackers.  Refrigerate  overnight 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Texas  Pudding  Dessert 


4 

egg  yolks 

1/2 

cup  sugar 

1/2 

cup  sherry  wine 

1 

pint  cream 

4 

egg  whites 

1 

cup  pecans,  chopped 

1 

slice  crystallized  pineapple 

1 

bottle  red  cherries,  without 

juice 

Cook  egg  yolks,  sugar,  and  sherry  wine  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Cool 
Whip  cream  and  egg  whites  separately,  then  combine,  and  mix  with  cooked 
mixture  Add  pecans,  pineapple,  and  cherries.  Freeze,  Serve  with  plain  cook- 
ies or  cake.  For  8  to  10. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 
164 


Sweets 


Three  Layered  Dessert 


I  first  prepared  this  with  chocolate  pudding  mix  and  shared  it  with  my  fi-iend 
and  neighbor  Helen  Clark.  Helen  made  the  dessert  using  lemon  pudding,  and 
that  was  delicious  too.  This  dessert  would  be  good  using  any  flavor  of  pud- 
ding! M.D. 

1  stick  butter  1    cup  flour 

1  cup  pecans,  chopped  1    8-ounce  package  cream 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  cheese 

1  cup  Cool  Whip  2    packages  instant  chocolate 

3  cups  milk  pudding 

Cream  butter,  flour,  and  pecans.  Pat  into  bottom  of  9x1 2-inch  pan  or  glass 
baking  dish.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  minutes    Cool.  Mix  cream  cheese, 
sugar,  and  Cool  Whip.  Spread  over  first  layer   Mix  chocolate  pudding  with 
milk  until  thick    Pour  over  first  two  layers.  Put  remaining  Cool  Whip  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  nuts.  Chill  for  several  hours  before  serving. 

Mary  Stewart  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Grandmother's  Strawberries 


Use  equal  weights  of  sugar  and  strawberries    Put  the  strawberries  in  the 
preserving  kettle  in  layers,  sprinkling  sugar  over  each  layer.  The  fiuit  and 
sugar  should  not  be  more  than  4  inches  deep.  Place  the  kettle  on  the  stove, 
and  heat  the  ftoiit  and  sugar  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  When  it  begins  to  boil, 
skim  carefully   Boil  ten  minutes,  counting  fi-om  the  time  the  fixiit  begins  to 
bubble    Pour  the  cooked  fioiit  into  platters,  having  it  about  2  or  3  inches  deep. 
Place  the  platters  in  a  sunny  window,  in  an  unused  room,  for  three  or  four 
days.  In  that  time  the  finit  will  grow  plump  and  firm,  and  the  syrup  will 
thicken  almost  to  a  jelly.  Put  this  preserve,  cold,  into  jars  or  tumblers 

Annie  Harre  11  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carohna 


165 


Sweets 


Java-Rum  Torte 


'2 
2 
1 

cup  sugar 

Tablespoons  instant  coffee 

Tablespoon  butter  or 

1/2 
2 
1 

margarine 

1 

cup  water 
Tablespoons  rum 
prepared  loaf  pound  cake 
envelope  dessert  topping  mix 

Prepare  dessert  topping  according  to  directions.  In  small  saucepan,  combine 
sugar,  water,  and  coffee  crystals.  Bring  to  boil,  and  boil  hard  for  3  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Remove  from  heat,  stir  in  rum  and  butter   Cool  for  5 
minutes.  Slice  cake  lengthwise  into  3  layers.  Slowly  spoon  3  tablespoons  of 
the  coffee  mixture  over  bottom  layer.   Spread  on  1/3  of  the  prepared  topping. 
Repeat  with  middle  layer,  and  stack  atop  bottom  layer.  Spoon  3  tablespoons 
coffee  mixture  atop  cut  surface  of  top  layer.  Invert  and  place  atop  other  two 
layers    Spread  remaining  whipped  topping  over  top.  Bring  remaining  coffee 
mixture  to  boil  for  1  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Cool  5  to  10  minutes,  and 
drizzle  over  top  of  torte.  Chill.  Makes  8  to  10  servings. 


Old  South  Ambrosia 


1 

fresh  coconut. 

5 

oranges 

1 

can  crushed  pineapple. 

1 

can  fruit  cocktail. 

with  juice 

with  juice 

2 

apples,  chopped 

2 

bananas,  sliced 

'2 

cup  pecans,  coarsely  broken 

sugar,  to  taste 

cherries 

Grate  coconut  in  a  bowl.  Add  peeled  and  sectioned  oranges;  discard  mem- 
brane and  seeds.  Add  pineapple,  fruit  cocktail,  apples,  bananas,  and  nuts 
Sweeten  with  sugar,  being  carefiil  not  to  add  too  much  as  the  syrup  from  the 
fruit  is  usually  sufficient.  Chill  before  serving.  This  dessert  is  pretty  garnished 
with  cherries  and  served  in  a  crystal  bowl. 


166 


Sweets 

Orange  Chiffon  Dessert 

1    orange  chiffon  cake  1    pint  cream 

1    package  vanilla  instant  pudding         1    large  can  crushed  pineapple 

Split  cake  across  in  3  layers    Cream  should  be  whipped  but  should  not  be  too 
thick    Fold,  do  not  whip,  prepared  pudding  into  whipped  cream    Add  pine- 
apple with  juice  to  mixture.  Spread  between  layers  of  cake  and  over  entire 
cake.  Chill  several  hours 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Pineapple  Delight 

Cream  together  1  tablespoon  butter,  2/3  cup  sugar,  and  1  egg.  Add  1  large  can 
crushed  pineapple,  1  small  box  vanilla  wafers,  and  1/2  cup  nuts    Mix  well  and 
chill. 


"New  Dessert" 

4    Tablespoons  orange  juice  4  Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2/3    cup  sugar  3  egg  yolks,  beaten 

3    egg  whites,  beaten  1  small  can  evaporated  milk 
vanilla  wafers 

Mix  juices,  sugar,  and  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Fold  mixture  into  egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten  until  stiflF.  Whip  a 
small  can  of  milk  until  stiff  and  add  to  mixture.  Have  milk  and  bowl  in  which 
you  whip  it  very  cold  —  it  won't  whip  otherwise    Line  refrigerator  pan  with 
crushed  vanilla  wafers.  Pour  mixture  on  this.  Cover  with  crushed  vanilla 
wafers    Chill  or  freeze    I  prefer  it  about  half  frozen    Serves  6  or  8  and  costs 
about  20  or  25  cents. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


167 


Sweets 


Charlotte  Russe 


A  number  of  years  ago,  I  was  served  Mrs  McCowen's  Charlotte  Russe  follow- 
ing dinner  at  my  sister's  home  in  Richmond.  I  thought  at  the  time  it  was  one  of 
the  best  desserts  I  had  ever  eaten,  and  I  still  think  that!  My  sister's  mother-in- 
law,  Nancy  McCowen,  graciously  permitted  me  to  include  the  recipe  in  this 
book.  M.D. 

1  dozen  lady  fingers  1  envelope  gelatin 

2  Tablespoons  cold  water  1/2  cup  milk 

3  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  1  cup  XXXX  sugar 
separately  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1    pint  heavy  cream,  divided  2    Tablespoons  XXXX  sugar 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  2  tablespoons  cold  water.  Heat  the  milk.  Do  not  boil.  Add 
gelatin,  and  cool.  Beat  egg  yolks  well,  add  the  sugar  and  vanilla.  Cream  well. 
Fold  in  well-beaten  egg  whites,  and  then  gelatin  mixture.  Fold  in  1/2  pint 
cream  that  has  been  whipped    Important;  Let  stand  3  minutes.  Fold  well 
again    Repeat  this  two  more  times    Split  the  lady  fingers,  and  line  sides  of  a 
2-quart  bowl  with  them,  flat  side  next  to  the  bowl,  each  one  touching  the  other. 
Pour  in  the  custard  mixture,  and  put  in  refrigerator.  An  hour  before  serving, 
whip  1/2  pint  heavy  cream,  adding  2  Tablespoons  XXXX  sugar  gradually. 
Spread  over  custard  mixture.  Keep  chilled  in  refrigerator. 

Nancy  McCowen,  Naples  Florida 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

1    can  Carnation  milk,  whipped  3/4    cup  sugar 

pinch  salt  2    Tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1    small  can  crushed  pineapple 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  freeze.  Crushed  peaches  may  be  used  instead  of  pine- 
apple, but  use  less  lemon  juice. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 
168 


Sweets 


18 

lady  fingers 

raspberry  jam 

1 

cup  boiled  custard 

2 

Tablespoons  milk 

2 

egg  whites,  whipped 

or  3 

Tablespoons  sugar 

Trifle 


6    almond  macaroons, 
cut  in  small  pieces 
1/2    cup  sherry 

2    Tablespoons  slivered 
almonds,  blanched 


Open  lady  fingers;  spread  jam  on  half.  Close.  Place  on  bottom  of  a  deep  glass 
or  silver  dish.  Cover  with  macaroon  pieces    Mix  the  sherry  and  milk,  pour 
over  lady  fingers  and  macaroons.  Stick  in  slivered  almonds.  Let  stand  for  an 
hour   Pour  custard  over  all,  and  top  with  meringue  made  fi"om  egg  whites 
which  have  been  beaten  with  sugar. 


Date  Delight 


1  cup  whipping  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2  cup  dates,  chopped 

1 2  graham  crackers,  crushed 

4  maraschino  cherries 


3    Tablespoons  confectioners' 
sugar 
1/2    cup  walnuts,  broken 
dash  of  sah 


Whip  cream  until  stiff,  fold  in  sugar,  vanilla,  dates,  nuts,  crackers,  and  salt. 
Place  in  4  sherbet  glasses.  Top  each  wdth  a  cherry.  Chill. 


Orange  Ambrosia 

Allow  1  medium-sized  orange  for  each  serving  Peel  and  slice  Arrange  in 
layers  in  serving  bowl  or  individual  dishes  with  shredded  or  flaked  coconut 
between  layers  and  on  top. 


169 


Sweets 


Raspberry  Macaroon  Dessert 


2    Tablespoons  sherry, 

cream  or  dry 
4    soft  macaroons 


1 


10-ounce  package 
quick-thaw  frozen  raspberries 
pint  vanilla  ice  cream 


Sprinkle  sherry  over  raspberries    Crumble  one  macaroon  in  each  of  4  sherbet 
dishes.  Top  macaroons  with  a  scoop  of  ice  cream.  Spoon  raspberry  mixture 
over  top.  If  raspberries  are  at  room  temperature,  entire  dessert  may  be  pre- 
pared and  kept  in  the  fi-eezer  during  dinner 


Apple  Baked  Alaska 


4 

cups  sliced  apples 

1/2 

cup  seedless  raisins 

'4 

cup  water 

1/2 

cup  firmly  packed 

1 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

brown  sugar 

'4 

teaspoon  mace 

3 

egg  whites 

'8 

teaspoon  salt 

6 

Tablespoons  sugar 

1 

pint  firm  vanilla  or 
coffee  ice  cream 

Combine  apples  and  raisins  in  1  1/2-quart  baking  dish    Sprinkle  with  water 
Combine  brown  sugar,  spices,  and  sah    Pour  over  apples    Bake  at  350  de- 
grees for  30  to  35  minutes  or  until  apples  are  soft,  stirring  occasionally   Chill. 
Just  before  serving,  beat  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Add  sugar  gradually  while 
continuing  to  beat  until  very  stiff  and  glossy    Spoon  ice  cream  over  apples. 
Top  with  deep  swirls  of  meringue,  being  carefiil  to  bring  meringue  to  edge  of 
dish.  Bake  in  preheated  oven  at  450  degrees  for  3  or  4  minutes  or  until  me- 
ringue is  tipped  with  brown.  Makes  6  servings. 


170 


Sweets 


Heavenly  Hash  Ice  Cream  Loaf 


1    loaf  angel  food  cake 
1    pint  heavy  cream,  whipped 
1/4    cup  nuts,  chopped 
1    1 0-ounce  package  frozen 
strawberries,  drained 


1    quart  strawberry  ice  cream 
1    cup  miniature  marshmallows 
1    8-ounce  can  crushed 
pineapple,  drained 


Slice  angel  food  cake  lengthwise.  Place  a  layer  of  strawberry  ice  cream  1  inch 
thick  between  cake  slices,  sandwich  style.  Make  an  icing  of  whipped  cream  to 
which  marshmallows,  nuts,  pineapple  and  strawberries  have  been  added, 
spread  over  entire  cake.  Keep  in  freezer  until  ready  to  serve.  Loaf  slices  easily 
if  sliced  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  from  the  freezer. 


Lemon  Ice  Cream 


1/2 


1/2 


pint  cream  or 
evaporated  milk 
pinch  salt 
cup  sugar 
grated  lemon  rind 
Tablespoons  sugar 


Tablespoon  sugar 

orange  or  vanilla  flavoring 

egg  yolks 

juice  of  2  lemons 

egg  whites 

vanilla  wafers,  crushed 


Whip  cream  or  milk  with  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Add  flavoring  and  salt.  Put  in 
refiigerator.  Gradually  add  the  1/2  cup  of  sugar  to  egg  yolks  as  they  are  being 
beaten    Then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind,  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
until  thick.  Cool.  Next,  beat  the  egg  whites  with  the  3  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
add  to  the  egg  yolk  mixture.  Fold  in  whipped  cream.  Line  pan  with  crushed 
vanilla  wafers,  pour  in  mixture,  and  sprinkle  with  more  vanilla  wafers    Freeze. 


171 


Sweets 


Fresh  Peach  Ice  Cream 


During  our  early  married  years,  Don  and  I  lived  in  a  little  hamlet  outside  of 
Spartanburg,  South  Carolina.  I  had  a  small  piano  studio  and  among  my  stu- 
dents were  two  daughters  of  a  peach  orchard  owner.  This  afforded  us  the 
opportunity  to  visit  his  peach  sheds  during  harvest  time  to  gather  "culls,"  or 
castoffs    They  made  the  very  best,  freshest  peach  ice  cream  I  have  ever  eaten 
before  or  since.  (The  peach  cobbler  they  made  wasn't  bad  either.)    M.P. 

2    cups  sugar  3    eggs 

1    teaspoon  salt  1    cup  evaporated  milk 

1    cup  mashed  fresh  peaches  1    quart  whole  milk 

Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together.  Add  salt  and  evaporated  milk  Pour  into  chilled 
ice  cream  freezer  can.  Add  mashed  peaches  and  whole  milk.  Freeze  according 
to  freezer  directions 

Iva  Suttles,  Spartanburg,  South  Carolina 


Lemon  Sherbet 

Ice  cream  was  a  good  summer  treat  for  the  children,  but  making  it  was  a  time 
consuming  process  for  granny. 

3    oranges  3    lemons,  grated 

1    can  pineapple  2    cups  sugar 

1    envelope  gelatin  1   1/2    egg  whites 

Get  out  all  juice;  then  boil  lemon  rinds  in  water   Take  out  rinds  and  put  in 
sugar,  and  boil  it.  Fix  the  gelatin  with  this  syrup.  Let  cool,  and  put  in  fruit  and 
juice  with  it    Put  in  enough  water  to  make  freezer  2/3  frill.  When  it  starts  to 
freeze,  drop  in  egg  whites  ~  unbeaten. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


\11 


Sweets 

Ice  Cream  —  Uncooked  —  Basic  Recipe 

1/2    cup  sugar  2  Tablespoons  sugar 

2    eggs  1  cup  whipping  cream 

1    1/3    cups  top  milk  or  dash  sah 

evaporated  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Dissolve  1/2  cup  sugar  and  sah  in  milk.  Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick,  add  to  milk 
and  sugar.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiflF,  then  beat  in  2  tablespoons  sugar   Beat 
cream  until  thick  but  not  stiff.  Stir  all  together  gently   For  plain  ice  cream,  add 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Stir  once  while  freezing.  Add  any  fhiits,  nuts,  etc.  desired. 
This  is  real  good  —  rich  —  doesn't  get  so  icy. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carohna 


W_    Tutti-Frutti 

Heat  to  boiling  point  one  pint  of  rich  milk    Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  very 
light,  and  stir  into  them  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  beat  into  a  stiff  froth    Add  both 
to  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  while.  When  thick,  remove  it  from  the  fire 
and  cool    Sweeten  three  pints  of  rich  cream  whipped  to  a  froth  and  stir  into 
cool  mixture    Add  the  juice  and  grated  peel  of  two  lemons,  six  tablespoonfiils 
of  sherry,  and  one  pound  of  choicest  candied  fioiits.  Freeze. 


^B_    English  Christmas  Plum  Pudding 

One  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one  pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of 
flour,  six  eggs,  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  nutmeg,  one  pint  of  milk,  one 
teaspoonfiil  of  salt,  mix  these  ingredients  thoroughly,  place  them  in  a  strong 
pudding-cloth,  which  has  been  wet  and  covered  with  flour,  tie  up  the  cloth,  not 
leaving  much  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Serve  with  rich  sauce  after 
boiling  five  hours. 


173 


Sweets 

Lemon  Cake  Pudding 

1    cup  sugar  3  Tablespoons  soft  butter 

3    Tablespoons  flour  2  eggs,  separated 

juice  and  grated  rind  1  cup  milk 

of  1  lemon 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  flour,  beaten  egg  yolks,  rind  and  lemon  juice, 
and  milk.  Mix  well,  and  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites    Pour  into  1 -quart 
casserole    Place  casserole  in  pan  of  hot  water,  bake  at  325  degrees  for  1  hour 
until  top  surface  is  golden  brown. 


J|^    Puddings 


The  outside  of  a  boiled  pudding  often  tastes  disagreeable,  which  comes  by  the 
cloth  not  being  nicely  washed,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place.  It  should  be  dipped  in 
boiling  water,  squeezed  dry,  and  floured  when  to  be  used    If  bread  it  should  be 
tied  loose,  if  batter,  tight  over   The  water  should  boil  quick  when  the  pudding 
is  put  in,  and  it  should  be  moved  about  for  a  minute,  lest  the  ingredients  should 
not  mix.  A  pan  of  cold  water  should  be  ready,  and  the  pudding  dipped  in  as 
soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot,  and  then  it  will  not  adhere  to  the  cloth    Very 
good  puddings  may  be  made  without  eggs,  but  they  must  have  as  little  milk  as 
will  mix,  and  must  boil  three  or  four  hours    Batter  pudding  should  be  strained 
through  a  coarse  sieve  when  all  is  mixed.  In  others,  the  eggs  separately   The 
pans  and  basins  must  be  always  buttered  for  a  baked  pudding    A  few  spoonfuls 
of  fresh  small  beer,  or  one  of  yeast,  will  answer  instead  of  eggs.  Snow  is  an 
excellent  substitute  for  eggs,  either  in  puddings  or  in  pancakes    Two  large 
spoonfials  will  supply  the  place  of  eggs. 


174 


Sweets 

Fudge  Pudding 

2    cups  hot  water  6    Tablespoons  cocoa 

2    teaspoons  vanilla  1    cup  sugar 

1/2    teaspoon  salt  1    package  fudge  cake  mix 

Bring  water  to  boil  in  a  saucepan.  Add  other  ingredients,  stir.  Grease  large 
glass  dish,  and  pour  cake  mix  into  it.  Pour  sauce  over  mix.  Bake  at  375 
degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Apple  Rice  Pudding 

1/3    cup  rice  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

2    cups  milk  2    eggs,  separated 
5    medium  apples  butter  or  margarine 

sugar  cinnamon 

Cook  rice  for  5  minutes.  Drain    In  a  saucepan,  combine  vanilla,  rice,  and  milk. 
Cook  until  all  liquid  has  been  absorbed    Add  egg  yolks  to  rice  mixture.  Peel, 
and  slice  apples,  brown  in  butter  or  margarine.  Grease  baking  dish,  and  spread 
rice  in  the  bottom.  Add  apples  to  cover,  sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

Meringue: 

While  beating  2  egg  whites,  gradually  add  1/2  cup  sugar  until  whites  are  stiff 
enough  for  meringue.  Spread  over  apples,  bake  in  350  degree  oven  until 
lightly  browned 


^    Fruit  Whip 

Beat  2  egg  whites  until  stiflF  If  needed,  gradually  beat  in  a  little  powdered 
sugar.  Fold  in  1  cup  fruit  pulp    (crushed  berries,  peaches,  applesauce,  prune, 
or  apricot  pulp)  Pile  in  sherbet  glasses,  chill.  Makes  4  servings. 


175 


Sweets 


Baked  Custard 


2    eggs 

2    Tablespoons  sugar 

3  or  4    graham  crackers 

8  or  10   marshmallows 

1  1/2    cups  milk 

Heat  milk,  and  pour  over  cracker  crumbs    Add  sugar  to  eggs.  Add  mixture  to 
milk  and  crackers.  Add  marshmallows,  and  bake. 


Sherry  Pudding 


1 

package  Knox  gelatin 

1/2 

cup  cold  water 

6 

egg  yolks 

1 

cup  sherry 

1 

cup  sugar 

6 

egg  whites,  beaten 

1 

cup  vanilla  wafers,  crushed 

1 

cup  pecans,  finely  chopped 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  cold  water.  Combine  egg  yolks,  sherry,  and  sugar,  and  cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Add  enough  hot  water  to  gelatin  mixture  to  pour 
(2  or  3  drops);  add  to  custard    Beat  egg  whites  until  stiflF,  and  fold  in    Grind 
vanilla  wafers  and  pecans    In  greased  pan,  put  a  layer  of  custard,  then,  a  layer 
of  the  mix    Continue  until  all  is  used.  Chill,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 


>^    Porcupine  Pudding 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  rice  in  new  milk  until  perfectly  tender,  and  not  too  dry,  then 
add  six  eggs  beaten,  a  spoonful  of  ratafia,  as  much  as  sugar  as  shall  be  suffi- 
cient, and  some  grated  fi'esh  lemon,  mix  well,  and  boil  in  a  mould  one  hour  and 
a  half  Turn  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  stick  it  thick  with  almonds  cut  in  sixths. 
Serve  with  a  rich  custard  around  it.  It  is  equally  good  cold.  (Comment: 
Ratafia  is  an  almond-flavored  liqueur.) 


176 


Sweets 

Bread  Pudding  with  Lemon  Sauce 

1/4  cup  sugar  1/4  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  2  Tablespoons  margarine, 

1/2  teaspoon  cinnamon  melted 

1  egg  2  cups  milk,  scalded 

1  cup  bread  cubes  1/2  cup  raisins 

Combine  sugar,  salt,  vanilla,  melted  margarine,  cinnamon,  and  slightly  beaten 
egg    Slowly  add  scalded  milk.  Stirring  constantly,  add  bread  cubes  and  raisins. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish    Set  in  pan  of  warm  water. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  1  hour. 

Sauce: 

1  1/2  Tablespoons  corn  starch  1/4    cup  sugar 

1  1/2  cups  hot  water  grated  rind  of  1  lemon 

2  Tablespoons  lemon  juice  11/2    Tablespoons  margarine 

Put  corn  starch  and  sugar  in  a  saucepan    Slowly  add  hot  water,  stirring  con- 
stantly  Add  grated  lemon  rind.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thickened.  Re- 
move from  heat,  and  stir  in  lemon  juice  and  margarine.  Spoon  sauce  over 
bread  pudding  when  served. 

"Sis"  Proffitt,  Salisbury,  Maryland 


Maple  Parfait 

5    eggs,  separated  1    pint  cream 

1    cup  maple  syrup 

Cook  beaten  egg  yolks  in  double  boiler  with  maple  syrup  until  thick.  Cool. 
Add  beaten  egg  whites  and  cream.  Freeze, 


177 


Sweets 


Boiled  Custard 


1  quart  milk  6 

2  rounded  Tablespoons  cornstarch       2 
1    teaspoon  vanilla 


rounded  Tablespoons  sugar 
eggs,  well-beaten 


Heat  milk  until  water  in  double  boiler  boils.  Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch,  and 
add  to  milk    Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken    Add  well-beaten  eggs,  and  cook 
about  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.    Pour  into  a  warm  bowl,  stirring  as  you 
pour  When  it  cools,  add  the  vanilla. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Apple  Brown  Betty 


1 
1 

1/2 

1/4 


cup  soft  bread  crumbs  or 

ready-to-eat  dry  cereal 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

cup  sugar 

cup  fruit  juice  (approximately) 


3  Tablespoons  butter  or  oleo 
1    teaspoon  grated  orange  or 

lemon  peel 

4  medium  apples,  sliced 


Preheat  oven  to  375  degrees.  Mix  bread  crumbs,  butter  or  oleo,  lemon  peel, 
sugar,  and  cinnamon    Place  1/2  of  the  apples  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover 
with  1/2  of  the  bread  crumb  mixture.  Add  remaining  apple  slices,  cover  with 
remaining  crumb  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  fruit  juice.  Bake  about  45  minutes. 
Serve  hot  or  cold  with  milk,  cream,  custard  sauce,  or  other  dessert  sauce. 
Makes  6  servings. 

Variations:  With  mincemeat,  use  1/2  cup  mincemeat  and  3  apples. 

With  rhubarb,  use  2  cups  stewed  sweetened  rhubarb  in  place  of 
apples    Omit  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  fruit  juice. 


178 


Sweets 


Baked  Bananas 


4    bananas  4    Tablespoons  sugar 

4    teaspoons  hot  water  1    Tablespoon  butter  or  oleo 

Peel  bananas,  and  split  in  halves.  Place  in  shallow  baking  dish.  Meh  butter  in 
hot  water,  pour  over  bananas.  Sprinkle  layer  of  bananas  with  a  little  cinnamon 
and/or  lemon  juice.  A  little  sah  may  be  sprinkled  on  fruit  also.  Bake  at  350 
degrees  about  20  minutes  or  until  brown. 


^p   Gretchen's  Apple  Dessert 

1    egg,  beaten  1  cup  sugar 

1    cup  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

salt  1/2  teaspoon  vanilla 
3    medium  or  4  small  apples 

Combine  ingredients,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  at  least  1  hour. 

Banana  Whip 


6 

medium  bananas 

6 

Tablespoons  confectioners' 

1 

Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

sugar 

'2 

teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2 

cup  nuts,  chopped 

4 

egg  whites,  whipped 

1/8 

teaspoon  salt 

Mash  the  bananas  through  a  ricer  or  food  mill    Beat  in  the  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
vanilla,  and  nuts.  Whip  the  egg  whites  with  the  salt  until  stiff.  Fold  them  into 
banana  mixture.  Place  in  baking  dish,  and  bake  at  325  degrees  for  about  30 
minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Makes  6  servings. 


179 


Sweets 


Delicious  Dessert 


1    cup  yellow  cake  mix  1/2    cup  chopped  nuts 

1/2    stick  oleo,  melted  1    can  cherry  or  apple  pie 

filling 

Mix  together  the  cake  mix,  nuts,  and  melted  oleo    Grease  a  shallow  pan 
(larger  than  a  pie  tin).  Put  in  1  can  pie  filling;  put  cake  mix  on  top    Bake  in 
350  degree  oven  about  30  to  40  minutes.  Crushed  pineapple  may  be  added  to 
the  cherries.  Serve  with  scoop  of  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Peach  Cobbler 


1 5    medium  peaches,  sliced 

2    cups  sugar 

1    Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2    teaspoons  ground  ginger 

73    cup  flour 

1    teaspoon  salt 

Combine  ingredients  and  mix. 

Pastry: 

3    cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour  2    teaspoons  salt 

1    cup  shortening  1/2    cup  water 

Combine  flour  and  sak.  Cut  in  shortening.  Sprinkle  with  water.  Press  dough 
into  a  ball.  Roll  out  1/3  of  the  dough  and  cut  into  thin  strips.  Roll  out  rest  of 
dough  for  top  crust.  Pour  half  the  peach  filling  into  a  buttered  9x1 2-inch 
baking  dish.  Cover  with  pastry  strips    Add  remaining  filHng.  Dot  with  3 
tablespoons  of  butter,  and  cover  with  top  crust.  Slit  center  of  top  crust  several 
times.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  1  hour.  Makes  12  servings. 

Margaret  Taylor  Proffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


180 


Sweets 

Pies 


Plain  Pastry 

When  Mother  made  a  pie  and  had  a  few  pieces  of  dough  left  over,  she  would 
put  a  little  butter  and  brown  sugar  on  the  pieces  and  cook  them  in  the  oven  as 
a  treat  for  my  sister  and  me.  Cinnamon  and  sugar  mix  substituted  for  brown 
sugar  is  also  good    M  D. 

1  1/4    cups  sifted  flour  1    teaspoon  salt 

1/2    cup  shortening  3  to  4    Tablespoons  ice  water 

Combine  flour  and  sah,  cut  in  shortening  with  pastry  blender   Blend  until 
mixture  is  crumbly.  Sprinkle  water   Mix  lightly  with  fork  until  pastry  holds 
together  and  leaves  sides  of  bowl. 


J^  Grandmother's  Pastry 

3    cups  flour  1    teaspoon  salt 

1/2    pound  lard  (1  cup)  1/2    cup  boiling  water 

Stir  lard  and  water  until  creamy    Stir  in  flour  and  sah.  Put  in  refiigerator. 
May  be  used  at  once  or  kept  a  week  covered. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


Bubbling  Pie 

To  prevent  pies  from  bubbling  over,  insert  a  few  pieces  of  macaroni  through 
the  crust.  These  do  not  affect  the  flavor  and  can  be  removed 


181 


Sweets 


1/4 

1/2 

3/4 

2 

1 


Sour  Cream  Apple  Pie 


cup  flour 
teaspoon  salt 
cups  sugar 
medium  apples 
teaspoon  Real  Lemon 


2  eggs 

1/2  cups  sour  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  pie  shell,  unbaked 


Sift  flour,  sugar,  and  salt  in  a  large  bowl    Add  eggs,  and  beat  well.  Add  vanilla 
and  sour  cream;  beat  gently  until  smooth.  Peel  apples,  slice  thin,  mix  with  Real 
Lemon,  and  pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  at  400  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven,  and  cover  with  Spicy  Topping.  Return  to  oven  Bake  for  30  to  35 
minutes  until  firm.  Cool  and  refrigerate. 


Spicy  Topping: 

1/3    cup  brown  sugar 
1/2    teaspoon  cinnamon 


1/3    cup  flour 
1/4    cup  margarine 


Combine  sugar,  flour,  and  cinnamon    Cut  in  margarine  to  make  a  coarse 
mixture.  Spread  over  pie. 

Janie  Prqffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


1  cup  milk 

2  eggs,  separated 
1  teaspoon  butter 
1  baked  pie  shell 


Caramel  Pie 

2 
1 
1 


Tablespoons  flour 
cup  brown  sugar 
teaspoon  vanilla 


Scald  milk  in  top  of  double  boiler   In  a  bowl,  mix  flour,  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar, 
and  scalded  milk  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Add  butter  and  vanilla. 
Pour  into  baked  pie  shell    Make  meringue  of  egg  whites,  spread  over  top  of 
pie.  Bake  until  brown. 


182 


Sweets 

Quick  Apple  Pie 

2    frozen  deep  dish  pie  crusts         5  or  6    medium  apples,  peeled 

2  Tablespoons  lemon  juice  and  sliced 

3/4    cup  sugar  2    Tablespoons  cornstarch 

1    teaspoon  cinnamon  1    teaspoon  nutmeg 

1/4    cup  water  3    teaspoons  butter 

Thaw  pie  crust  while  slicing  apples    Sprinkle  lemon  juice  over  apples.  In 
another  bowl,  mix  cornstarch  with  sugar  and  spices.  Add  water,  and  mix  well. 
Pour  over  apples.  Mix  well.  Spoon  into  one  of  the  pie  crusts    Dot  with 
butter  Turn  the  other  pie  crust  upside  down  on  top  of  the  apples.  Crimp 
edges  together,  and  make  holes  in  top  of  crust  with  fork    Bake  in  350  degree 
oven  approximately  1  hour. 

Strawberry  Pie 

Picking  strawberries  in  Virginia  Beach  is  a  great  way  to  introduce  children  and 
grandchildren  to  one  type  of  farming.    They  learn  about  hard  work  and  also 
grow  to  appreciate  the  wonderful,  fresh  taste  of  anything  gathered,  prepared, 
and  eaten  right  at  home.  When  they  were  very  young,  strawberry  pie  was  one 
of  our  sons'  favorites  because  the  recipe  came  from  their  first  grade  teacher. 
They  got  a  fine  start  in  their  education  at  Lynnhaven  Elementary  School  under 
the  caring  eye  of  Marguerite  Brassell.  She  was  a  gem  of  a  teacher  and,  though 
no  longer  living  in  the  area,  remains  a  good  friend    MP. 

3  Tablespoons  strawberry  jello  3    Tablespoons  cornstarch 

1    cup  sugar  Cool  Whip,  or  ice  cream 

fresh  strawberries  1    cup  water 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together  in  a  saucepan    Add  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  and 
cook  until  thick    Cool.  Add  berries,  and  pour  into  a  baked  pie  shell    Place  in 
refiigerator  until  chilled  and  firm.  Add  your  favorite  topping. 

Marguerite  Brassell,  Dover,  Delaware 

183 


Sweets 

Cranberry  Pie 

Hired  on  just  24  hours  notice,  Emily  Groover  Shelley,  more  famously  known 
as  "Mama  Groover,"  quickly  became  the  supreme  chef  and  cafeteria  manager 
at  Lynnhaven  Elementary  School  when  it  opened  in  1 963 .  The  children  were 
always  happy  to  hear  her  announce  over  the  PA  system  that  the  next  day's 
menu  would  include  Mama  Groover's  Round  Pizza.  In  the  days  when  lots  of 
government  surplus  food  was  sent  to  the  schools  —  often  on  short  notice  — 
Emily  rapidly  and  cleverly  incorporated  the  products  into  delicious  fare,  Mary 
and  I  recall  with  amazement  and  amusement  the  numerous  ways  in  which  she 
worked  her  wizardry  with  the  seemingly  endless  supply  of  cranberries  that 
arrived  unexpectedly   The  recipe  shared  here  is  from  a  recipe  book  put  to- 
gether by  the  happy  faculty  at  that  special  school.  M.  P. 

2  cups  cranberries  1/2  cup  sugar 

1/2  cup  nuts  1/2  cup  butter 

1/2  cup  Crisco  1/4  cup  oil 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour 

Wash,  pick  over,  and  drain  2  cups  of  cranberries.  Put  in  bottom  of  a  large  pie 
pan.  Sprinkle  1/2  cup  of  sugar  over  cranberries,  then  sprinkle  on  nuts.  Set 
aside.  Melt  together  butter,  Crisco,  and  oil    Beat  2  eggs  thoroughly  with  1 
cup  sugar;  add  flour,  and  mix  well.  Combine  both  mixtures,  and  pour  over 
cranberries.  Bake  1  hour  or  until  golden  brown.  Serve  warm.  Delicious 
topped  with  ice  cream. 


Juicy  Oranges 

To  peel  oranges  more  easily,  place  them  in  boiling  water  for  3  or  4  minutes. 
This  also  makes  them  more  juicy. 


184 


Sweets 


^_.   Aunt  V.'s  Lemon  Pie 

1    cup  flour  1/4   teaspoon  salt 

lard  (size  of  an  egg)  ice  water 

To  make  crust,  work  flour  and  lard  together.  Add  salt  and  ice  water  (just 
enough  to  make  it  stick).  Handle  as  little  as  possible  so  it  will  be  light.  Roll 
out  and  put  in  pie  pan    Prick  edges  with  fork    Cool  it,  then  bake. 


illing: 

1 

cup  sugar 

2    round  Tablespoons  flour 

1 

cup  hot  water 

1    small  lump  butter 

3 

eggs,  separated 

1    large  lemon,  juice  only 

1/2 

teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind 

dash  of  salt 

Combine  sugar  and  flour  Add  sah,  egg  yolks,  lemon  juice,  and  rind  Mix. 
Add  hot  water  and  butter  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  (about  5  or  10 
minutes).  Put  the  filling  in  baked  pie  crust    Top  with  meringue  in  swirls 

Meringue: 

3    egg  whites  3    Tablespoons  sugar 

1/2    teaspoon  baking  powder  a  little  lemon  juice 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiflf.  Add  baking  powder,  sugar,  and  lemon  juice. 


Pineapple  Coconut  Pie 

Mix  one  stick  melted  margarine,  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  one  and  three- 
quarters  cups  of  sugar.  Add  four  slightly  beaten  eggs,  one  small  can  undrained 
crushed  pineapple,  one  cup  coconut,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  and  one 
teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Pour  into  two  unbaked  pie  shells  and  bake  at  350 
degrees  for  35  minutes. 

185 


Sweets 


Lemon  Pie 


This  collection  of  recipes  would  not  be  complete  without  my  mother's  lemon 
pie  recipe.  It  has  always  been  a  favorite.  Mother  must  have  had  a  special 
touch,  because  mine  are  never  quite  the  same  as  the  ones  she  made  for  us. 
M.D. 

1     can  condensed  milk  2    Tablespoons  sugar 

3     lemons  (juice)  2  egg  whites,  beaten 

graham  crackers 

Mix  lemon  juice  and  milk    Roll  crackers,  and  spread  in  bottom  of  Pyrex  pie 
pan    Place  broken  graham  crackers  around  rim.  Add  filling    Cover  with 
meringue  made  fi"om  egg  whites  and  sugar.  Bake  in  slow  oven  until  it  is 
brown.  Chill. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Peach  Custard  Pie 


5 

small  or  4  large,  ripe  peaches 

3 

Tablespoons  Gold  Medal 

3 

Tablespoons  brown  sugar 

flour 

1  1/2 

cups  evaporated  milk 

1 

egg,  slightly  beaten 

(undiluted) 

2/3 

cup  sugar 

2 

Tablespoons  flour 

1/2 

teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/4 

teaspoon  nutmeg 

Make  crust  for  a  9-inch  one-crust  pie  (with  high  fluted  edges)    Peel  peaches, 
and  cut  in  half  Mix  the  brown  sugar  and  3  tablespoons  of  flour,  sprinkle  over 
pastry  in  pie  pan    Arrange  the  peaches  cut-side  up  on  top  of  sugar  mixture. 
Mix  milk,  egg,  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  2  tablespoons  flour  together,  and 
sprinkle  over  top  of  peaches.  Bake  40  to  50  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  (425  de- 
grees) until  a  silver  knife  inserted  1  inch  fi'om  the  pastry  edge  comes  out  clean. 

Josephine  Proffitt  Clements,  Lynchburg,  Virginia 


186 


Sweets 

Orange  Pie 

Aunt  Bebe  lived  and  worked  in  Washington,  DC  for  most  of  her  aduh  life 
After  her  retirement,  she  traveled  many  places  with  senior  groups  and  played 
bridge  whenever  she  could.  She  is  now  92  years  old  and  resides  in  Salisbury, 
Maryland,  where  my  husband's  brother  Ike  and  his  wife  "Sis"  take  good  care  of 
her    She  really  enjoys  a  good  joke,  likes  to  go  out  to  eat,  and  loves  it  when  my 
husband  takes  her  something  he  has  prepared  from  the  recipe  collection  she 
gave  him  when  she  moved  into  a  retirement  residence.  This  orange  pie  is  a 
dessert  she  loved  to  make  when  it  was  time  for  the  bridge  party  to  be  held  at 
her  house   M.P. 

1  peeled  orange  2  egg  yolks 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  Tablespoon  flour  2  egg  whites 

2  Tablespoons  sugar  1  pie  shell  (graham  cracker) 

Cut  peeled  orange  into  small  pieces  Add  egg  yolks,  sugar,  milk,  and  flour. 
Mix  well  Pour  into  prepared  pie  shell.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  until  set. 
Beat  egg  whites  with  sugar  for  meringue.  Spread  over  pie;  brown  in  oven. 

Genevieve  Proffitt,  Salisbury,  Maryland 

Hershey  Bar  Pie 

This  is  from  my  friend  who  loves  chocolate  as  much  as  I  do!    M.D. 

6    Hershey  bars  with  almonds  1/2    cup  milk 

16    marshmallows  1     cup  whipping  cream 

1    pie  crust,  baked 

Melt  chocolate  bars  and  marshmallows  in  milk.   Set  aside  to  cool.  Whip  the 
whipping  cream,  and  fold  into  this  mixture    Pour  into  baked  pie  crust  which  is 
thoroughly  cooled    Refrigerate  or  freeze. 

Sherry  Arendt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

187 


Sweets 


German  Chocolate  Pie 


1  cup  sugar  2  Tablespoons  flour 

1  Tablespoon  cornstarch  pinch  of  salt 

2  Tablespoons  cocoa  2  eggs 

3  Tablespoons  melted  margarine  2/3  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  3/4  cup  coconut 

1/3  cup  pecan  pieces  1  unbaked  pie  shell 

Melt  oleo,  and  mix  with  remaining  ingredients.  Bake  in  preheated  400  degree 
oven. 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 

Chocolate  Nut  Pie 

This  is  for  our  friends  who  REALLY  love  chocolate!  M.D. 

2  unbaked  pie  shells  1    Tablespoon  flour 

1    cup  sugar  1    cup  chocolate  chips 

4  eggs,  slightly  beaten  1    cup  light  com  syrup 
1    stick  butter  1    cup  pecans,  finely 

chopped 

Combine  flour  and  sugar   Add  remaining  ingredients;  mix  well    Pour  mixture 
into  pie  shells    Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Good  served  with 
vanilla  ice  cream.    You  can  divide  the  ingredients  by  half  and  make  1  pie. 

Impossible  Pie 

Makes  2  pies  and  own  crusts.  Cream  one  and  three-quarters  cups  sugar  with 
one-half  cup  self-rising  flour.  Add  four  well-beaten  eggs,  one-half  stick  melted 
butter  or  margarine,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  two  cups  milk,  and  seven  ounces 
flaked  coconut    Pour  into  two  nine-inch  pie  pans    Bake  at  350  degrees  for 
about  35  minutes  or  until  brovvn  on  top. 

188 


Sweets 


Chocolate  Pie 

3  eggs,  separated  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk  2  Tablespoons  cocoa 

1  Tablespoon  flour  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  pastry  shell 

Bake  the  pastry  shell.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  and  cocoa    Add  to  well-beaten  egg 
yolks.  Add  milk  and  butter.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Stir  in  vanilla. 
Pour  into  baked  pie  shell,  and  cover  with  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites    Place  in 
preheated  oven,  let  meringue  lightly  brown. 

Presbyterian  Chocolate  Chess  Pie 


1 

9-inch  pie  shell,  unbaked 

1 

square  of  chocolate 

2 

eggs 

2 

teaspoons  vanilla 

1 

stick  butter 
dash  salt 

1 

cup  sugar 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate.  Blend  remaining  ingredients,  and  mix  with  butter 
and  chocolate    Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell    Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes    Serves  6. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Chess  Cake 

2  1/2    cups  sugar  1    cup  butter 

4    eggs  1    cup  milk 

vanilla  flavoring  pinch  of  salt 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  beaten  lightly,  then  milk    Pour  mixture  into 
2  unbaked  pie  shells    Bake  slowly  until  brown. 


189 


Sweets 


Pecan  Pie 


1    cup  pecans  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

pinch  of  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3    Tablespoons  melted  butter  1  cup  dark  Karo  syrup 

1    cup  brown  sugar  pie  shell 

Mix  sugar,  Karo  syrup,  eggs,  salt,  vanilla,  and  melted  butter  Put  in  unbaked 
pie  shell    Stir  in  nuts,  put  some  nuts  on  top.  Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  30 
to  40  minutes  or  until  firm. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 

Pecan  Molasses  Pie 


1/2 

cup  sugar 

2 

Tablespoons  butter 

2 

eggs 

2 

Tablespoons  flour 

1/4 

Tablespoon  salt 

1 

teaspoon  almond  extract 

1 

cup  white  Karo  syrup 

1  1/2 

cups  pecans,  chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar   Add  beaten  eggs,  flour,  salt,  almond  extract,  and 
syrup    Stir  well    Add  pecan  pieces,  and  pour  into  a  crust    Bake  1/2  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carohna 

Rum  Pie 

1  large  Cool  Whip  1    8-ounce  Hershey's  chocolate 
4    Tablespoons  rum,  light  bar,  plain 

2  graham  cracker  pie  crusts 

Thaw  Cool  Whip    Meh  chocolate  over  hot  water,  mix  with  Cool  Whip    Add 
rum,  and  stir.  Pour  into  pie  crusts.  Freeze 


190 


Sweets 


Georgia  Pecan  Pie 


1/2    cup  softened  butter  or 
margarine 
1    cup  firmly  packed  brown 
sugar 
3/4    cup  milk 
1    teaspoon  vanilla 


1  cup  sugar 

2  Tablespoons  all-purpose 
flour 

3  eggs,  beaten 

1  1/2    cups  chopped  pecans 
1    unbaked  pie  shell 


Cream  together  mehed  butter  and  sugars.  Add  flour,  eggs,  and  milk.  Beat 
together  thoroughly    Stir  in  pecans  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell. 
Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  1  hour 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


Derby  Tarts 


2 
1/4 

1/2 
1/2 


10 


eggs 

cup  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

teaspoon  vanilla  extract 

cup  semisweet  chocolate 

morsels,  melted 

powdered  sugar 

pecan  halves 


1  cup  sugar 

2  Tablespoons  bourbon 
1/2  cup  all-purpose  flour 
1/2    cup  chopped  pecans 

10    3 -inch  pastry  shells,  unbaked 
whipped  cream 


Beat  eggs  just  until  blended    Gradually  add  sugar,  beating  until  thick  and  light 
colored.  Add  butter,  bourbon,  and  vanilla.  Mix  well.  Gradually  add  flour, 
beating  well.  Stir  in  chocolate  and  chopped  pecans    Spoon  1/4  cup  filling  into 
each  pastry  shell.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes    Cool  tarts  completely. 
Sift  powdered  sugar  lightly  over  tarts.  Top  vsdth  a  dollop  of  whipped  cream, 
and  garnish  each  with  a  pecan  half 

Sara  S.  Gabel,   Washington,  North  Carolina 


191 


Sweets 


Sweet  Potato  Pecan  Pie 


1/4 

cup  butter 

1/2 

cup  brown  sugar 

1 

cup  mashed  sweet  potatoes 

3 

eggs 

1/3 

cup  corn  syrup 

1/3 

cup  milk 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

1 

cup  broken  pecan  pieces 

pastry  shell 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar   Add  potatoes  and  slightly  beaten  eggs.  Mix 
well,  and  combine  with  syrup,  milk,  salt,  vanilla,  and  pecans    Pour  into 
unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  10  minutes.  Reduce  heat  to  325 
degrees,  bake  35  to  45  minutes  longer.  If  you  do  not  use  pecans,  increase 
sweet  potatoes  to  1  1/2  cups. 


Sweet  Potato  Pie 


4 

eggs 

1  1/2 

cups  sweet  potatoes 

'3 

cup  sugar 

2/3 

cup  milk 

'2 

cup  walnuts  or  pecans. 

1/3 

cup  orange  juice 

finely  chopped 

2 

Tablespoons  honey 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2 

teaspoon  nutmeg 

1 

Tablespoon  grated  orange 
peel 

unbaked  pie  shell 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light.  Beat  in  the  cooked  and  mashed  sweet  potatoes  and 
sugar.  Stir  in  the  milk,  nuts,  orange  juice,  honey,  and  vanilla    Pour  into  pie 
shell    Bake  in  450  degree  oven  for  10  minutes.  Reduce  temperature  to  350 
degrees;  bake  30  minutes  longer  or  until  knife  inserted  near  center  comes  out 
clean.  Cool.  Spread  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  grated  orange  peel  and 
nutmeg. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


192 


SM'eets 


Buttermilk  Pie 


3  cups  sugar 

1/2  cup  flour 

1/2  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  buttermilk 

2  unbaked  pie  shells 


1/2 
3 
1 
1 


cup  melted  butter 
eggs,  beaten 

teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring 
teaspoon  lemon  flavoring 


Sift  together  sugar,  flour,  soda.  Add  beaten  eggs,  milk,  and  melted  butter.  Stir 
in  lemon  and  vanilla  flavorings.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shells.  Bake  for  10  to 
1 5  minutes  in  450  degree  oven.  Turn  oven  down  to  325  degrees;  continue 
baking  for  20  to  25  minutes. 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


^    Squash  Pie 


Pare  the  squash  and  remove  the  seeds,  stew  until  soft  and  dry,  then  pulp  it 
through  a  colander.  Stir  into  the  pulp  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  it  thick  as 
batter.  Spice  with  ginger,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  or  other  seasoning  to  taste; 
sweeten  with  sugar  and  add  four  beaten  eggs  for  each  quart  of  milk    Fill  a  pie 
plate  lined  with  crust  and  bake  one  hour. 


1/2    cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs,  beaten 


Chess  Pies 

2 

1 

1/2 


teaspoons  vanilla 
cup  chopped  dates 
cup  chopped  nuts 


Cream  butter  until  soft.  Add  the  sugar,  and  beat  until  creamy.  Add  the  eggs, 
and  beat  well.  Add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients.  Mix.  Pour  into  muffin  pans 
which  have  been  hned  with  pastry.  Bake  for  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  cold,  topped  with  whipped  cream.  These  are  very  rich. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  CaroUna 


193 


Sweets 


1/2 
2 


Vinegar  Pie 


cup  butter 
eggs 

teaspoon  vanilla 
pinch  of  salt 


1  cup  sugar 

4  teaspoons  vinegar 

1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

1  unbaked  pie  shell 


Melt  butter.  Add  sugar  and  salt    Beat  until  creamy.  Add  eggs,  and  beat  some 
more.  Add  vanilla  and  vinegar   Mix.  Add  nuts,  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  • 
shell.  Bake  at  325  degrees  about  30  minutes.  Test  with  toothpick  or  straw  as 
you  would  a  cake. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Grasshopper  Pie 


1    1/2 

1/2 
1/4 


cups  chocolate  wafer  1/4 

crumbs  4 

cup  milk  1/4 

cup  green  creme  de  menthe  2 
chocolate  curls  for  garnish 


cup  mehed  butter 
cups  miniature  marshmallows 
cup  white  creme  de  cacao 
cups  whipping  cream 


Combine  wafer  crumbs  and  butter  in  medium  bowl,  mix  well.  Press  into 
bottom  and  sides  of  9-inch  pie  plate    Cook  in  500  degree  oven  for  about  3 
minutes.  Cool  slightly.  Refrigerate.  Combine  marshmallows  and  milk  in  top 
of  double  boiler    Stir  and  leave  over  heat  until  marshmallows  begin  to  melt. 
After  they  have  melted  completely,  let  them  cool  slightly.  Blend  in  creme  de 
cacao  and  creme  de  menthe.  Let  cool  completely   Fold  in  all  but  1/2  cup  of 
the  whipped  cream.  Spoon  mixture  into  prepared  crust.  Garnish  with  remain- 
ing whipped  cream,  and  sprinkle  with  chocolate  curls  or  grated  chocolate. 
Refrigerate  until  firm.   Serve  chilled. 


194 


Sweets 

Crumb  Pie  (Cracker  Cake) 

1    cup  Uneeda  biscuits  2    eggs 

1    cup  sugar  1    cup  nuts,  chopped 

1    teaspoon  almond  extract  1    teaspoon  baking  powder 

In  a  bowl,  break  biscuits  into  coarse  crumbs    Add  beaten  eggs  and  other 
ingredients.  Put  in  Pyrex  pie  plate  that  has  been  greased  and  floured    Bake  35 
minutes  in  275  degree  (slow)  oven.   Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Ritz  Cracker  Pie 

3    egg  whites  1    cup  sugar 

20    Ritz  crackers,  finely  crushed  1    Tablespoon  baking  powder 

3/4    cup  nuts,  chopped 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiflF.    Fold  in  sugar  mixed  with  baking  powder,  Ritz 
crackers,  and  nuts    Put  into  a  well-greased  9-inch  pie  plate    Bake  at  350 
degrees  for  25  minutes.  Cool    Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Chocolate  Silk  Pie 


1 

cup  sugar 

1 

cup  butter 

3 

squares  unsweetened 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

chocolate,  melted 

4 

eggs 

1 

10-inch  pie  crust 

whipped  cream 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  chocolate,  vanilla,  and  2  eggs    Beat  at  high 
speed  for  5  minutes.  Add  2  eggs,  beat  5  minutes.  Pour  into  pie  crust    Chill 
overnight.  Top  with  whipped  cream. 


195 


Sweets 


Macaroon  Pie 


16    saltines,  finely  rolled  16    pitted  dates,  finely  chopped 

1/2    cup  pecans,  chopped  1    cup  sugar 

1/4   teaspoon  baking  powder  3    egg  whites 

Blend  saltines,  dates,  pecans,  and  sugar.  Add  baking  powder  to  egg  whites, 
and  beat  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  Fold  egg  whites  into  saltine  mixture,  spread  in 
well-buttered  9-inch  pie  plate.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes.  Cool. 
Serve  topped  with  whipped  cream  or  ice  cream    To  make  miniature  pies, 
spoon  mixture  into  1 8  aluminum  foil  miniature  baking  cups  or  use  paper  cups 
in  miniature  muffin  tins.  Bake  at  350  degrees  about  25  minutes.  Cool,  and 
serve  in  baking  cups. 

Michael's  Mud  Pie 

1    chocolate  pie  crust  2    pints  coflFee  ice  cream 

whipped  cream  or  Cool  Whip  1     12-ouncejar  Smucker's 

sliced  almonds  Chocolate  Fudge  Topping 

Soften  ice  cream  in  refrigerator.  Spoon  into  bowl,  stirring  until  ice  cream  is 
just  pliable    Spoon  into  pie  crust,  cover  with  inverted  plastic  lid,  and  place  in 
freezer  until  hard.  Cover  with  topping,  and  freeze  again.  Cut  into  wedges. 
Top  each  wedge  with  whipped  cream  or  Cool  Whip  and  sliced  almonds. 

Sara  S.  Gabel,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Crumb  Crust 

Preheat  oven  to  400  degrees.  Mix  one  and  one-half  cups  graham  cracker 
crumbs  with  one-quarter  cup  of  sugar  and  one-quarter  cup  butter  or  margarine. 
Lightly  grease  9-inch  pie  plate.  Press  mixture  firmly  and  evenly  against  sides 
and  bottom  of  plate.  Bake  10  minutes.  Cool,  fill  with  favorite  filling. 


196 


__^^^_^^^_^^^_^^_^_^__^^__^^__^_^^_^  Sweets 

Chocolate  Ice-Box  Pie 

2    squares  unsweetened  1  stick  butter 

chocolate  1/4  cup  self-rising  flour 

3/4    cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2    eggs  1  8-inch  pie  crust 

Meh  chocolate  and  butter  in  double  boiler   Cool    Mix  sugar  and  flour   Add 
eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  after  each  addition.  Stir  in  vanilla.  Combine  egg 
mixture  with  chocolate  mixture;  pour  into  8-inch  pie  crust    Bake  in  a  350 
degree  oven  for  25  minutes.   Store  in  refrigerator. 

Ambrosia  Pie 

1    3  1/4-ounce  package  vanilla  1    3 -ounce  package  orange- 

pudding  and  pie  filling  banana  gelatin 

2  1/2    cups  water  prepared  whipped  topping 

mix 

Combine  pie  filling  mix,  gelatin,  and  water  in  a  saucepan.  Cook,  and  stir  over 
medium  heat  until  mixture  comes  to  a  fiill  boil  and  is  thick  and  clear.  Remove 
from  heat.  Chill  until  mixture  begins  to  set.  Prepare  whipped  topping  mix 
according  to  directions.  Thoroughly  blend  into  the  chilled  pudding  mixture. 
Spoon  into  Unbaked  Coconut  Crust.  (See  recipe  below.)  Chill  until  firm,  at 
least  3  hours.  Garnish  with  large  pufi"  of  whipped  topping  and  a  sunburst 
arrangement  of  orange  sections. 

Unbaked  Coconut  Crust: 

1/4    cup  butter  2    cups  flaked  coconut 

Melt  butter  in  a  skillet.  Add  coconut  and  saute,  stirring  constantly  until  coco- 
nut is  golden  brown.  Sprinkle  mixture  into  a  9-inch  pie  pan,  pressing  firmly  to 
cover  bottom  and  sides.  Cool  to  room  temperature.    (About  30  minutes.) 


197 


Sweets 

Mile-High  Strawberry  Pie 

Make  at  least  1  day  ahead, 


cup  sugar 

2 

egg  whites 

1 0-ounce  package  frozen 

1 

teaspoon  vanilla 

strawberries,  partially  thawed 

1 

Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

pinch  of  salt 

1 

cup  heavy  cream  or 

9-inch  pastry  shell  or  crumb 

whipping  cream 

crust 

Combine  sugar,  egg  whites,  strawberries,  vanilla,  lemon  juice,  and  salt  in  large 
mixing  bowl    Beat  mixture  at  high  speed  for  15  minutes  until  thick,  fluflfy,  and 
voluminous.  Fold  in  whipped  cream,  and  pile  into  baked  pie  crust.  Freeze  for 
several  hours    After  pie  is  frozen,  wrap  well  in  foil  or  plastic  wrap.  May  be 
frozen  up  to  3  weeks.  Slice,  and  serve  immediately  upon  removal  from  freezer. 
8  servings. 


Baked  Banana  Pie 


3 

eggs 

3/4 

cup  milk 

1/4 

cup  sugar 

1/4 

cup  all-purpose  flour 

1/4 

teaspoon  nutmeg,  ground 

4 

ripe  bananas,  mashed 

whipped  cream 

(1  1/3  cups) 

1 

8-inch  pie  crust 

In  bowl,  beat  together  eggs,  milk,  sugar,  flour,  and  nutmeg  just  until  smooth. 
Stir  in  mashed  banana.  Turn  into  buttered  8-inch  pie  plate    Sprinkle  with 
additional  nutmeg  if  desired.  Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  35  minutes  or 
until  knife  inserted  just  ofi"  center  comes  out  clean.  Cool,  then  chill.  Top 
wedges  with  whipped  cream  if  desired 


198 


Sweets 

Blueberry  Pie 

1    stick  oleo  1/2    cup  nuts,  chopped 

1    cup  flour  1    can  pie  blueberries 

1/2    cup  light  brown  sugar  1    large  Cool  Whip 

Mix  the  oleo,  flour,  brown  sugar,  and  nuts  together.    Spread  in  flat  pan,  and 
cook  in  the  oven  until  lightly  browned    Cool,  and  crumble  Put  some  of  the 
crumbles  in  the  bottoms  of  2  pie  pans    Spread  with  Cool  Whip.  Spread  the 
blueberries  over  the  top.  Sprinkle  remaining  crumbles  on  top    Refrigerate 
Makes  2  pies. 

Sara  S.  Gabel,  Washington,  North  CaroUna 

Frosty  Lemon  Blueberry  Pie 

1    No.  2  can  blueberry  pie  1    Tablespoon  grated  lemon  peel 

filling  18    lemon  flavored  wafers 

1    pint  lemon  sherbet 

Line  bottom  and  sides  of  a  9-inch  pie  plate  with  lemon-flavored  wafers.  Com- 
bine pie  filling  and  grated  lemon  peel    Turn  into  wafer-lined  pie  plate,  and 
fi'eeze    Spoon  lemon  sherbet  over  ft"ozen  blueberry  mixture.  Keep  fi"ozen  until 
serving  time. 

Funeral  Tart  Filling 

This  pie  was  often  taken  to  the  homes  of  finends  when  there  was  a  death  in 
their  family.  M.D. 

Beat  4  eggs  until  light.  Melt  1  stick  of  butter,  and  add  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  and 
juice  of  3  lemons  A  little  grated  lemon  rind  may  be  added  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thick.  Refiigerate.  Use  baked  tart  or  pie  shells. 


199 


SM'eets 


Mrs.  Reid's  Pie 


This  recipe  came  to  Janie  from  Mrs  Ethel  Reed  (correct  spelling)  of  Oriskany, 
Virginia    We  don't  know  who  the  original  Mrs  Reid  was,  but  her  pie  sure  is 
good     MP. 


1  can  Eagle  Brand  Milk 

1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  small  bag  pecan  pieces 

2  graham  cracker  pie  crusts 


juice  of  1  lemon 
1    1 2-ounce  container  Cool 

Whip 
1    can  peaches,  if  desired 


Mix  milk  and  lemon  juice.  Add  well-drained  pineapple  (and  cut  up  peaches  if 
desired)  Fold  in  Cool  WTiip  and  nuts.  Fill  pie  crusts,  and  cover  with  inverted 
plastic  tops  Crimp  the  edges  of  the  pie  pan  over  the  plastic  top  to  seal.  Store 
in  refrigerator  or  freeze. 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


1/4    pound  butter 
4    eggs 

pinch  of  salt 
1/4    cup  hot  water 


Lemon  Pie 

1 

3 
1 
2 


pound  sugar 
lemons 

package  gelatin 
prepared  pie  crusts 


Melt  butter  in  double  boiler   Add  in  order:  sugar  and  eggs,  along  with  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemons    Cook,  stirring  frequently,  until  thick    Dissolve 
gelatin  in  hot  water,  and  stir  into  egg  mixture.  Pour  into  pie  crusts.  Cool. 
Top  with  whipped  cream  when  served. 


200 


Sweets 

Frozen  Lemon  Pie 

3    egg  yolks  1    cup  sugar 

1    teaspoon  grated  lemon  rind  1/4    cup  lemon  juice 

1    cup  whipping  cream  dash  salt 

6    zwieback  crackers  or  3    egg  whites 
vanilla  wafers,  crushed 

Combine  beaten  egg  yolks,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  lemon  rind,  and  salt.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick    Remove  from  heat,  and  cool.  Beat  egg  whites  until 
stiff,  combine  with  whipped  cream.  Fold  into  custard  mixture    Place  half  of 
the  zwieback  crumbs  on  bottom  of  dish,  pour  in  lemon  mixture,  and  sprinkle 
other  half  of  crumbs  on  top.  Freeze  for  3  hours  or  longer  Vanilla  wafers  may 
be  used  instead  of  zwieback. 


Peanut  Butter  Ice  Cream  Pie 

This  is  a  great  dessert  because  you  can  take  one  of  the  pies  to  a  get-together  of 
friends  and  privately  enjoy  knowing  that  you  have  another  at  home  to  munch 
on  when  the  sweet  tooth  attacks.  M.P. 

1    quart  vanilla  ice  cream  1    small  jar  crunchy  peanut 

1  8-ounce  container  Cool  Whip  butter 

2  8-inch  chocolate  crusts 

Allow  ice  cream  to  soften  for  15  to  20  minutes.  Mix  well  with  peanut  butter 
Fold  in  Cool  Whip    Pour  into  pie  crusts,  and  freeze.  Garnish  with  grated 
chocolate  or  chocolate  curls.  Makes  2  pies. 

Meg  Meckel,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

201 


Sweets 


Sweet  Syrups  and  Sauces 


Peanut  Butter  Sauce 

2/3    cup  evaporated  milk  1/2    cup  peanut  butter 

1/4    cup  light  corn  syrup 

Add  evaporated  milk  to  peanut  butter  a  little  at  a  time  Blend  until  smooth. 
Stir  in  corn  syrup.  Makes  1  1/3  cups  sauce.  Good  spooned  over  chocolate 
cake. 


J^   Wine  Sauce 


A  teacupful  of  sugar,  with  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  worked  into  it;  add  half  a 
teacupful  of  boiling  water,  and  set  it  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  ten  minutes; 
just  before  going  to  the  table,  add  a  wine  glass  of  wine  and  whites  of  two  eggs 
whipped  to  a  froth.  Nutmeg  or  other  flavoring  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
wine,  if  preferred 


W    Brown  Sugar  Sauce 

2    cups  brown  sugar  2    Tablespoons  butter 

1/2   teaspoon  salt  1/2    cup  milk 

Boil  together,  stirring  constantly.  Use  on  gingerbread,  pound  cake,  or  ice 
cream. 


202 


Sweets 


Cocoa  Syrup 

1/2    pound  cocoa  2    glasses  water 

2     pounds  sugar 

Add  sugar  to  boiling  water  as  it  boils.  Add  cocoa  gradually,  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Cool    Put  in  glass  jar.  Keep  in  a  cool  place. 


Chocolate  Sauce 

5    squares  Baker's  chocolate  1    stick  butter 

3    cups  confectioners'  sugar  1    14  1/2-ounce  can  evapo- 

1    teaspoon  vanilla  rated  milk 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  in  heavy  saucepan.  Add  milk  and  sugar  alternately. 
Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly,  and  cook  about  5  minutes.  Mixture  should 
be  thick  and  creamy.  Remove  from  heat,  stir  in  vanilla.  Serve  warm  over  ice 
cream  or  cake.  Makes  about  18  servings. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Hard  Sauce 

1/3    cup  butter  or  margarine  1    cup  confectioners'  sugar 

1    teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  or  margarine  until  very  soft.  Sift  confectioners'  sugar,  and 
gradually  beat  into  butter.  Cream  until  fluffy   Add  vanilla  to  mixture,  blend 
thoroughly.  Chill. 


203 


Sweets . 

Lemon  Sauce 

2  Tablespoons  cornstarch  1  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  grated  lemon  peel  2  cups  water 

1/4  cup  lemon  juice  1/4  cup  butter  or  margarme 

1/4  teaspoon  salt 

In  a  saucepan,  combine  cornstarch,  sugar,  and  lemon  peel.  Slowly  add  water. 
Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat 
and  add  remaining  ingredients,  stirring  gently  until  butter  is  melted  and  all 
ingredients  are  blended 


Nutty  Chocolate  Sauce 

1  square  Baker's  chocolate  1    Tablespoon  butter 

2  Tablespoons  white  syrup  1  to  2    cups  boiling  water 
1    cup  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

1/2    cup  chopped  nuts 

Melt  chocolate  with  butter.  Add  other  ingredients  and  cook  about  5  minutes. 
The  longer  it  cooks,  the  thicker  it  gets    Add  a  little  water  if  it  gets  too  thick. 
Chopped  nuts  may  also  be  added. 


Whipping  Cream 

If  cream  does  not  whip  well,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 


204 


River  Scene 

The  coasts  of  Virginia  and  North  Carolina  have  wonderful 
beaches,  but  equally  beautiful  are  the  meandering  rivers 
and  streams  that  wend  their  ways  to  the  seashore.  —  M.P. 


VEGETABLES  AND  SIDE  DISHES 


In  Washington,  North  Carolina,  where  I  grew  up,  the  farmers'  market,  called 
The  Curb  Market,  was  located  in  the  basement  of  the  Agriculture  Building. 
This  is  where  the  local  farmers  in  Beaufort  County  would  bring  their  produce 
to  sell  on  Saturday  mornings.  Mother  would  go  early  to  get  vegetables,  and, 
by  the  middle  of  the  morning,  she  would  have  fresh  vegetables  cooking  on  the 
stove    This  is  when  I  learned  about  preparing  and  cooking  fresh  vegetables, 
though  I  must  admit  I  don't  have  the  instinct  that  Mother  had    She  always 
knew  exactly  how  much  seasoning  to  use.  It  was  an  extra  special  treat  when 
Mother  cooked  fresh  fish  and  combread  to  have  with  the  vegetables! 

My  grandparents  lived  on  Elizabeth  Avenue  in  Charlotte,  North  Carolina   We 
spent  many  summers  visiting  there    The  back  yard  had  room  for  a  garden  — 
not  an  enormous  garden  —  but  a  wonderflil  garden  with  rows  of  corn,  beans, 
cucumbers,  tomatoes,  and  other  vegetables    As  a  young  child,  I  especially 
liked  the  cherry  tomatoes  that  grew  in  the  garden.  My  grandfather  would  tell 
me  they  were  "volunteer"  tomatoes  because  they  were  not  planted,  but  grew 
by  themselves    M  D. 


Canned  Beans 

Blanch  beans  for  10  minutes    Pack  in  jars,  not  too  tight    Put  1  teaspoon  of 
sah  to  each  quart,  fill  with  warm  water,  lay  on  lids,  set  in  boiler  of  warm  water, 
and  boil  1  hour  and  20  minutes  after  reaching  boiling  point    Refill  if  necessary 
with  boiling  water  Just  before  taking  off,  put  on  rubbers  and  put  2  teaspoons 
of  boiling  vinegar  to  each  quart    When  you  want  to  use  them,  put  a  pinch  of 
soda  and  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  and  cook  till  done. 

Annie  Harrell  Stewart,  Charlotte,  North  Carolina 


207 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Easy  Baked  Beans 


1  3 1  -ounce  can  pork  and  beans            1 

1  Tablespoon  onion,  minced              1/2 

1/2  cup  brown  sugar                               3 

1/4  teaspoon  salt 

3  Tablespoons  catsup                        1/3 

3  strips  bacon,  cooked  and 
crumbled 


Tablespoon  prepared  mustard 
green  pepper,  diced 
Tablespoons  liquid  smoke 
dash  Worcestershire  sauce 
cup  molasses  or  brown 
sugar 


Combine  all  ingredients  and  bake  uncovered  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  1  hour. 

Broccoli  Casserole 


2    packages  frozen  broccoli 
1/2    cup  Miracle  Whip  salad 

dressing 
1/2    cup  butter  (not  margarine) 


1    can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1/2    package  Pepperidge  Farm 
dry  stuffing  mix 


Place  cooked  broccoli  in  a  casserole.  Mix  the  salad  dressing  and  soup  together, 
pour  over  broccoli.  Top  with  stuffing  crumbs    Pour  the  melted  butter  over 
this.  Bake  at  300  degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Broccoli  Cheese  Casserole 


2 

packages  chopped  broccoli 

3/4 

cup  celery,  chopped 

3/4 

cup  onion,  chopped 

2 

cans  cream  of  celery  soup 

1 

stick  margarine 

1 

small  box  instant  rice 

1 

cup  Cheese  Whiz 

(2   cups) 

Thaw  broccoli    Mix  completely  with  other  ingredients.  Cover,  and  bake  at 
350  degrees  for  1  hour 


208 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Marinated  Broccoli  and  Cauliflower 

4  stalks  broccoli  1  head  cauliflower 

3  stalks  celery,  diced  1  green  pepper,  diced 

1  onion,  diced  1   1/2  cups  oil 
1/2  cup  vinegar  1  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  dry  mustard  1    teaspoon  salt 
1    Tablespoon  poppy  seeds 

Cut  broccoli  and  cauliflower  into  bite-size  pieces    Mix  broccoli,  cauliflower, 
celery,  pepper,  and  onion.  Toss.  Combine  remaining  ingredients,  and  pour 
over  top  of  vegetable  mixture    Refirigerate  overnight.  Serves  10  to  12. 


^^    Ladies'  Cabbage 


Boil  a  firm,  white  cabbage,  fifteen  minutes,  change  the  water  and  continue 
boiling  until  tender,  then  strain  and  set  aside  until  perfectly  cold,  then  chop 
fine,  and  add  two  beaten  eggs,  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  three  tablespoonftjls  of 
rich  milk  or  cream,  a  little  pepper  and  salt;  stir  all  well  together,  and  bake  in  a 
buttered  pudding  dish  until  brown.  This  dish  is  digestible  and  palatable,  much 
resembling  cauliflower. 


Harvard  Beets 


1 

can  beets 

1/2    cup  sugar 

1/2 

Tablespoon  cornstarch 

1/4    cup  vinegar 

1/4 

cup  beet  juice  or  water 

Mix  cornstarch  and  sugar   Add  vinegar  and  juice  slowly.  Heat  slowly,  and 
cook  until  thickened.  Add  beets.  Cook  about  3  minutes. 


209 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Carrot  Puff 

3    cups  mashed  carrots  1/2    cup  melted  butter  or 

3    Tablespoons  milk  margarine 

2    eggs  2    Tablespoons  light  brown 

dash  nutmeg  sugar 

Cook  carrots  in  boiling  water  Drain.  Using  a  blender  or  mixer,  mash  carrots, 
mix  with  the  melted  butter   Add  eggs  and  milk    Mix  1  minute    Add  sugar  and 
dash  of  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  and  pour  into  a  greased  1 -quart  casserole.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  about  30  minutes 


Honey  Glazed  Carrots 

4  1/2    cups  carrots  (about  2  pounds)  1    Tablespoon  margarine,  lite 

1    1/2    Tablespoons  honey  1    Tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Put  carrots  in  vegetable  steamer  over  boiling  water  Cover,  and  steam  4  to  8 
minutes.  Remove  and  keep  warm    Melt  butter  in  large  skillet  over  medium 
heat.  Add  honey  and  lemon  juice,  stirring  until  smooth.  Add  carrots,  and  toss 
gently  until  coated  with  sauce. 


Exotic  Celery 

5    cups  celery  1    can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 

1    can  cream  of  chicken  soup  1/2    cup  slivered  almonds 

Cut  celery  into  medium-sized  slices    Drain  chestnuts,  mix  with  celery   Place  in 
a  2-quart  casserole,  and  cover  with  undiluted  chicken  soup.  Sprinkle  top  with 
slivered  almonds.  Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


210 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Copper 

Pennies 

5 

cups  sliced  carrots, 

1    green  pepper,  chopped 

cooked  or  canned 

1    medium  onion,  sliced  thin. 

1 

can  tomato  soup 

or  pearl  onions  may  be  used 

1/2 

cup  salad  oil 

1    cup  sugar 

3/4 

cup  vinegar 

1    teaspoon  salt 

1 

teaspoon  pepper 

Drain  carrots  Combine  tomato  soup,  oil,  sugar,  vinegar,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Mix  until  sugar  dissolves,  and  pour  over  vegetables.  Stir  until  well  mixed. 
Store  covered  in  refrigerator.  Keeps  well. 

"Corky"  Proffitt  Bailey,  Pearisburg,  Virginia 


Baked  Celery  Parmesan 

Split  celery  hearts  in  half  Place  in  baking  dish,  sprinkle  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Dot  with  butter   Add  beef  bouillon  to  cover  bottom  of  dish    Bake  in 
375  degree  oven  for  20  minutes.  Baste  a  few  times  during  baking.  Sprinkle 
generously  with  Parmesan  cheese,  and  bake  10  minutes  longer   Ganush  with 
paprika 


^,.    Sweet  Corn 


If  some  of  the  tenderest  and  nicest  of  the  husks  are  put  into  a  kettle  in  which 
corn  on  the  cob  is  cooked,  the  flavor  of  the  corn  will  be  improved    Corn  is 
sometimes  cooked  with  the  inner  husks  on,  and  these  are  removed  just  before 
serving. 


211 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Corn  Pudding 

Our  three  sons  were  raised  in  a  household  where  everyone  helped  do  all  of  the 
chores.  They  learned  many  of  the  skills  needed  to  keep  the  home  fires  burning 
and  now  use  them  in  their  own  daily  lives.  Once,  while  visiting  our  son 
Stephen,  we  found  him  getting  cupcake  batter  ready  for  the  oven  while  keep- 
ing watch  over  a  vat  on  top  of  the  stove  that  contained  bubbling  dye  for  tie- 
dyeing  T-shirts    Both  the  cupcakes  and  the  dye  were  to  be  used  at  a  school 
activity  later  in  the  day  involving  a  club  at  Kellam  High  School  in  Virginia 
Beach  where  his  wife,  Jennifer,  was  an  art  teacher.  M.P. 

1  can  cream  style  corn  2    eggs 

2/3    cup  milk  2    Tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  Tablespoons  sugar  1/2   teaspoon  salt 
butter 

In  a  bowl,  combine  corn,  eggs,  sugar,  and  salt    Dissolve  cornstarch  in  milk, 
\nd  blend  into  egg  mixture.  Pour  into  greased  1 -quart  casserole    Dot  top  with 
butter.  Bake  uncovered  in  a  375  degree  oven  for  45  minutes  or  so. 

Stephen  Prqffitt,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Stewed  Corn 

Cut  fi"esh  com  twice  with  very  sharp  knife.  Do  not  slice  too  close  to  the  cob. 
Put  small  amount  of  water  in  the  pan  Add  1  teaspoon  bacon  grease  (keeps 
com  fi-om  sticking  to  the  pan).  When  water  boils,  add  com.  Cook  slowly, 
stirring  fi-equently  -  about  20  minutes    Add  sah,  pepper,  and  butter  to  taste 


212 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Onion  Pie 

3    large  Bermuda  onions  1/2    stick  butter 

2    eggs  1/4    cup  Parmesan  cheese 

1    prepared  pie  shell  bacon,  cooked  and  crumbled 

Slice  onions,  and  slowly  cook  uncovered  in  butter  for  about  30  minutes,  stir 
occasionally.  Beat  eggs  with  the  cheese.  Drain  onion.  Pour  eggs  and  cheese 
over  onions.  Pour  all  into  pie  shell.  Cook  in  a  300  to  350  degree  oven  for  20 
to  30  minutes.  Sprinkle  cooked  bacon  on  top  when  pie  comes  out  of  the  oven 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carohna 


Onion  Ormoloo 


Peel  ten  or  twelve  large  white  onions,  steep  them  an  hour  in  cold  water,  then 
boil  them  soft    Mash  them  with  an  equal  quantity  of  boiled  white  potatoes, 
adding  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  two  or  three  well  beaten  eggs    Stir  the  mixture 
very  hard,  season  it  with  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven, 
when  half  done  pour  a  little  mehed  butter  or  gravy  over  the  top. 


Green  Peas 

Shell  green  peas  until  you  have  a  quart;  half  a  peck  in  the  shells  will  generally 
produce  a  quart  of  shelled  peas.  Put  boiling  water  to  cover  them,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour;  then  take 
one  between  your  fingers,  if  it  will  mash  easily,  they  are  done:  drain  off  the 
water,  take  them  into  a  deep  dish;  put  to  them  a  teacup  or  less  of  sweet  butter 
and  a  little  pepper,  a  small  teaspoonflil  of  white  sugar  is  a  great  improvement. 
Serve  hot.  Small  young  potatoes,  nicely  scraped,  may  be  boiled  and  served 
with  them,  or  in  a  separate  dish  with  a  little  butter  over. 


213 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Peas  and  Celery 

2 

Tablespoons  butter 

1/2   cup  celery 

1 

3 -ounce  can  mushrooms 

2    Tablespoons  pimentos 

2 

Tablespoons  onion 

1/2   teaspoon  salt 

1/4 

teaspoon  savory 

dash  pepper 

1 

1 -pound  can  peas,  drained  or 
10-ounce  package  frozen  peas, 
cooked  and  drained 

Cut  celery  on  bias,  chop  pimentos  and  onions.  Meh  butter  in  skillet.  Add 
celery,  onions,  mushrooms,  pimentos,  salt,  savory,  and  pepper   Cook  uncov- 
ered until  celery  is  crisp-done  —  5  to  7  minutes.  Add  drained  peas,  and  heat. 
Can  be  made  ahead  and  heated  at  serving  time.  Makes  4  nice  servings. 


Scalloped  Potatoes 

6    medium  potatoes  1     pint  sour  cream 

1    pint  cottage  cheese  1    medium  onion 

butter  sharp  yellow  cheese,  grated 

Peel  potatoes,  and  cut  in  wedges    Cook  a  short  time  —  do  not  overcook  — 
and  drain    Finely  chop  onion,  and  saute  in  butter.  Pour  over  potatoes    Mix 
sour  cream  and  cottage  cheese  into  potatoes    Put  in  casserole,  top  with  grated 
cheese.  Bake  20  minutes  at  350  degrees.  Serves  6  to  8. 


J^   Baking  Potatoes 


To  bake  potatoes  more  quickly,  put  them  in  hot  water  about  1 5  minutes  before 
placing  them  in  the  oven. 


214 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Red  Cabbage 


Here  is  another  treat  from  our  friend  Gerda  who  cooks  such  delicious  German 
food.  MP. 


2 

pounds  red  cabbage 

3  to  4 

Tablespoons  red  wine 

salt 

vinegar 

3 

Tablespoons  margarine 

1/2 

onion 

1 

apple,  sour 

1 

teaspoon  sugar 

water 

1 

Tablespoon  flour 

spurt  of  red  wine 

Remove  outer  leaves  of  cabbage,  and  grind  the  rest  as  for  cole  slaw.  Add 
vinegar  and  salt,  and  mix  well.  (This  can  be  done  a  day  ahead  )    Finely  chop 
the  onion  and  saute  in  hot  margarine    Add  the  cabbage,  and  saute  it  until  it  is 
somewhat  tender   Add  a  little  water,  halved  apple,  and  sugar.  Cover  pot,  and 
let  cabbage  simmer  for  about  1  and  1/2  hours    Make  a  paste  with  the  flour, 
and  add  it  to  the  cabbage;  simmer  another  5  to  10  minutes.  Add  wine  last. 
Delicious! 

Gerda  L'Heureifx,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Potato  Casserole 


1    can  cream  of  celery  soup  1/2 

dashofpepper  and  paprika  1 

4    cups  potatoes,  thinly  sliced 


cup  milk 

small  onion,  thinly  sliced 

butter 


Blend  soup,  milk,  and  seasonings    In  a  1  1/2-quart  casserole,  ahemate  layers 
of  onions,  potatoes,  and  soup  mixture    Dot  with  butter.  Cover,  and  bake  1 
hour  at  375  degrees.  Uncover,  and  bake  for  another  15  minutes. 


215 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Cheesed  Potatoes 


8    small  potatoes,  unpeeled 

1/4 

cup  butter 

1/2    cup  American  Cheddar  cheese 

1/2 

teaspoon  sah 

speck  of  white  pepper 

parsley 

chives 

paprika 

Boil  potatoes  in  jackets.  Melt  butter,  and  add  the  grated  cheese,  sah,  and 
pepper   Peel  potatoes  quickly;  return  to  saucepan,  uncovered    Shake  pan 
gently  for  a  minute  or  two  over  burner  turned  to  low  heat.  This  makes  the 
potatoes  dry  and  mealy   Place  in  a  hot  serving  dish,  and  pour  the  butter  and 
cheese  mixture  over  them    Garnish  with  chopped  parsley  or  chives  and  pa- 
prika. Makes  4  servings. 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Sweet  Potato  Casserole 


3 

cups  sweet  potatoes 

1 

cup  white  sugar 

1/2 

teaspoon  salt 

2 

eggs 

1/2 

stick  margarine 

1/2 

cup  milk 

1/2 

teaspoon  vanilla 

Mash  sweet  potatoes    Beat  eggs;  mix  in  all  other  ingredients,  and  blend  into 
sweet  potatoes.  Pour  into  buttered  ovenproof  dish. 

Topping: 

1/2    stick  margarine  1    cup  brown  sugar 

1/2    cup  flour 

Melt  margarine,  and  combine  with  sugar  and  flour.  Sprinkle  on  top  of  pota- 
toes. Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Mae  Hogan  Proffitt,  Roanoke,  Virginia 


216 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Stuffed  Potatoes 

Our  nephew  Bmce  Proffitt  is  owner  of  a  wonderfUI  restaurant  in  Low  Moor, 
Virginia,  near  Clifton  Forge    Several  impromptu  family  gatherings  have  been 
held  there,  relatives  have  dropped  in  during  deer  season,  and  in  1995,  Bruce 
and  his  sister.  Corky,  hosted  a  spectacular  50th  wedding  anniversary  party 
there  for  their  parents    Recently,  Bruce  sent  us  a  copy  of  this  delicious  potato 
recipe  for  our  book,  but  if  you  ever  visit  his  restaurant,  be  sure  to  save  room 
for  the  banana  fritters  with  chocolate  or  butterscotch  topping.  It's  such  a 
specialty  at  the  Cat  &  Owl  that  we  didn't  dare  ask  him  to  share  that  secret  with 
us    MP 

4  large  baking  potatoes  1/2    cup  margarine 

1/2  cup  sour  cream  11/2    cups  sharp  Cheddar  cheese, 

1/2  cup  real  bacon  bits  grated 

1/4  cup  chives 

Bake  potatoes  in  a  425  degree  oven  for  1  hour  Remove  from  oven,  and  wrap 
in  foil.  Cut  potatoes  in  half  lengthwise,  and  remove  insides  with  a  tablespoon. 
Mix  3/4  cup  of  the  cheese  and  rest  of  the  ingredients  together,  and  put  into 
potato  shell  halves    Spread  remaining  3/4  cup  of  cheese  on  top  of  potatoes. 
Return  to  oven  for  2  minutes  or  until  cheese  has  mehed. 

Bruce  Proffitt,  Cat  &  Owl  Steak  and  Seafood  House,  Low  Moor,  Virginia 


Hayman  Sweet  Potatoes 

Freshen  potatoes  by  soaking  in  cold  water  overnight.  Bake  in  350  degree 
oven.  Put  damp  towel  over  them  after  they  are  baked.  May  be  frozen, 
unpeeled,  in  a  plastic  bag. 


217 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Sweet  Potato-Bacon  Boats 

6  to  8    medium  sweet  potatoes  1    cup  shredded  natural  Cheddar 
4    Tablespoons  butter  or  cheese 

margarine  1    teaspoon  salt 
6    slices  bacon,  fried 

Scrub  potatoes,  and  bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  until  done.  Cut  slice  from  top 
of  each  potato  and  scoop  out  the  inside    Be  careful  not  to  break  the  shell.  In 
mixing  bowl,  combine  potatoes,  shredded  cheese,  butter  or  margarine,  salt,  and 
a  small  dash  of  pepper   Beat  until  fluSy,  fold  in  crumbled  bacon  bits,  and  pile 
mixture  into  potato  shells.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Top 
with  additional  cheese  and  bacon  if  desired. 


Spiced  Sweet  Potatoes 

8  large  sweet  potatoes  3/4  cup  cream 

1  teaspoon  grated  orange  rind  1  teaspoon  sah 

1/4  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1/2  teaspoon  ground  cloves  1  to  2  oranges,  in  segments 

Boil  potatoes  in  sahed  water.  Drain,  and  mash  until  light    Add  cream,  beat 
well.  Combine  orange  rind,  sah,  brown  sugar,  cinnamon,  and  cloves,  and  add 
potatoes,  mixing  well.  Spoon  individual  servings  onto  2  lightly  greased  cookie 
sheets.  Store  until  ready  to  use    Remove  from  refrigerator  I  hour  before 
using.  Put  orange  segment  on  each,  dust  with  brown  sugar,  and  dot  with 
butter.  Bake  for  30  minutes  in  a  400  degree  oven.  Makes  12  to  15  portions. 


218 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Sweet  Potato  Souffle 

The  ingredients  in  this  dish  can  be  easily  divided  or  muhiplied,  and  have  been 
many  times.  I  got  it  from  a  friend  when  our  offsprings  were  actively  involved 
in  young  peoples'  church  activities.  I  have  lost  track  of  my  church  friend  but 
think  of  her  whenever  I  pull  out  the  card  on  which  she  wrote  this  recipe.  M.P. 

2    large  cans  sweet  potatoes  3/4    cup  sugar 

1    cup  milk  3/4    stick  margarine 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Heat  potatoes,  drain,  and  mash.  Add  margarine,  sugar,  milk,  and  vanilla.  Pour 
into  buttered  baking  dish  and  add  topping. 

Topping: 

1/4    cup  mehed  margarine  3    Tablespoons  flour 

3/4    cup  light  brown  sugar  1/2    cup  pecans,  chopped 

Mix  ingredients  and  sprinkle  over  potatoes.  Bake  for  30  minutes  in  a  350 
degree  oven, 

Mary  Hyde,  formerly  of  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 

Peach-Potato  Puffs 

2  cups  sweet  potatoes  1    teaspoon  lemon  juice 
2    Tablespoons  brown  sugar               1/4   teaspoon  sah 

2    Tablespoons  butter  or  6    canned  peach  halves 

margarine  scant  dash  ground  cloves 

Combine  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  lemon  juice,  brown  sugar,  salt,  cloves,  and 
butter  or  margarine    Whip  until  flufiy.  Arrange  peaches  in  greased  1 0x6x2- 
inch  baking  dish,  and  pile  with  potato  mixture.  Dot  with  additional  butter. 
Bake  for  20  minutes  in  a  400  degree  oven.  Makes  6  servings. 


219 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Curried  Rice 

1    cup  rice  1  Tablespoon  curry  powder 

salt  1  3 -ounce  can  mushrooms 

1    package  frozen  peas  2  Tablespoons  butter 
1    Tablespoon  pimento 

Cook  rice  with  curry  powder  and  salt;  add  drained  mushrooms.  Cook  peas. 
Drain,  and  add  to  rice  along  with  the  butter  and  pimento    Mix,  and  serve  while 
hot. 


Harriett's  Rice  Curry 


cup  rice,  cooked 

4 

tomatoes,  sliced 

salt  and  pepper 

4 

eggs,  hard  boiled 

grated  sharp,  or  Parmesan 

3 

medium  onions,  sliced 

cheese 

light  margarine 

teaspoon  curry  powder 

flour 

cup  milk 

cream 

Slice  tomatoes,  and  arrange  in  bottom  of  buttered  casserole.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  Place  sliced  eggs  over  tomatoes    Sprinkle  on  a  little  salt.  Spread 
grated  cheese  over  this    Fry  onions  in  a  little  butter,  and,  when  soft,  add  curry 
powder.  Add  a  little  flour  to  this  mixture,  stir  until  smooth,  and  add  milk  to 
make  sauce    Pour  sauce  over  casserole,  spread  rice  on  top.  Pour  a  little  cream 
on  top  of  rice.  Bake  about  30  minutes  in  a  350  degree  oven.  Cover  with 
greased  foil  to  prevent  sticking 


220 


Vegetables  ami  Side  Dishes 


Spinach  Casserole 

3    1 0-ounce  packages  chopped  3    3 -ounce  packages  cream 

spinach  cheese 

6    Tablespoons  butter  salt 

pepper  nutmeg 

grated  rind  of  1  lemon  1    cup  packaged  herb  dressing 

Cook  spinach  according  to  directions    Drain,  and  return  to  hot  saucepan 
Blend  in  cream  cheese,  butter,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  rind.  Turn  into 
buttered  casserole.  Cover,  and  refrigerate  until  ready  to  bake    45  minutes 
before  baking,  remove  from  refrigerator  and  spread  dry  herb  dressing  over  top. 
Bake  at  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Serves  8. 

Mary  Stewart  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


Squash  with  Water  Chestnuts 

2    pounds  squash  1    large  onion 

1    can  cream  of  shrimp  soup  1    can  water  chestnuts 

toasted  bread  crumbs  butter 

Cut  squash  in  1/2 -inch  thick  slices    Dice  onion,  and  saute  in  a  little  butter. 
Mix  squash  and  onion  with  soup.  Drain,  and  thinly  slice  water  chestnuts;  stir 
into  soup  mixture.  Spoon  into  casserole,  and  top  wath  toasted  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  in  preheated  350  degree  oven  for  15  minutes.  Do  not  overcook.  Squash 
should  be  crisp  and  crunchy.  (A  can  of  cream  of  celery  may  be  substituted  for 
the  cream  of  shrimp  soup.) 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  CaroHna 


221 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Squash  Casserole 

3  to  4   cups  squash,  cooked  2    eggs,  beaten 

1    medium  onion,  chopped  1    cup  milk 

buttered  bread  crumbs  sah  and  pepper 

Slice  yellow  squash,  and  cook  with  chopped  onion  in  a  small  amount  of  boiling 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and  mash.  Add  beaten  eggs  which  have  been 
mixed  with  the  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  into  buttered 
casserole.  Bake  in  a  350  degree  oven  for  about  45  minutes.  Add  buttered 
crumbs  on  top  for  the  last  few  minutes  of  cooking 

Mary  S.  Moss,  Washington,  North  Carolina 


Baked  Tomatoes 

Ray  Baker  was  on  the  faculty  at  Lynnhaven  Elementary  School  when  Mary  and 
I  taught  there    She  was  young  and  energetic,  and  a  favorite  of  both  students 
and  fellow  teachers    M.P. 

2    cans  tomatoes  2    cups  sugar 

1    stick  margarine  4  to  6    slices  stale  bread 

1   1/2   teaspoons  cinnamon 

Blend  tomatoes,  sugar,  and  bread  pieces  in  baking  dish.  Top  with  pats  of 
margarine,  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  400  degree  oven  for  45 
minutes.  ^ 

Ray  "Razor"  Baker,  Lynnhaven  Elementary  School  Sta^, 

1960's,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 
Where  are  you,  Ray? 

222 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Asparagus  au  Gratin 

Arrange  cooked  asparagus  (fresh,  canned,  or  frozen)  on  baking  sheet.  Dot 
with  butter  or  margarine;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Top  lavishly  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Place  in  broiler  with  surface  of  food  about  4  inches 
below  heat.  Broil  until  cheese  browns  lightly 


Easy  String  Beans 

Drain  one  can  of  French-style  string  beans,  add  2  teaspoons  of  dry  onion  soup 
mix.  Place  in  small  pan  Top  with  one  strip  of  uncooked  bacon,  diced.  Bake 
in  400  degree  oven  until  bacon  is  done. 


Almond  Green  Beans 


1/4 

cup  slivered  almonds 

1/4    cup  butter 

1/4 

teaspoon  salt 

1  to  2   teaspoons  lemon  juice 

2 

cups  French-style 
green  beans 

Cook  almonds  in  butter  over  low  heat  until  golden,  stirring  occasionally. 
Remove  from  heat,  add  sah  and  lemon  juice    Pour  over  cooked,  drained  green 
beans.  Serves  4. 


^    Sugar  and  Salt 

Add  a  pinch  of  sugar  to  everything  sour  or  salty   Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  coffee 
and  everything  sweet.  It  helps  to  bring  out  its  flavor. 


223 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Fresh  Green  Beans 


1    pound  fresh  green  beans 
1/2    cup  onion,  chopped 
1/4    cup  celery,  chopped 
1/4   teaspoon  rosemary,  crushed 
salt 


2  to  3    Tablespoons  butter  or 
margarine 
1    clove  garlic,  minced 
1/4   teaspoon  basil,  crushed 


Cut  beans  in  1-inch  lengths.  Cover,  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  for  10 
minutes,  drain    Stir  in  remaining  ingredients    Cover;  cook  over  low  heat  until 
tender    Season  to  taste  with  sah. 


Zucchini  Quiche 


2 

Tablespoons  butter  or 

1 

pound  zucchini,  chopped 

margarine 

1/2 

cup  sliced  onion 

3/4 

teaspoon  salt,  divided 

1/2 

teaspoon  oregano 

1/4 

teaspoon  basil 

3/4 

cup  shredded  Swiss  cheese 

1 

baked  9-inch  pie  shell 

1  1/2 

cups  half-and-half 

1/2 

teaspoons  cornstarch 

3 

eggs 

pinch  nutmeg 

dash  liquid  hot  pepper  sauce 

Melt  butter  or  margarine  in  a  large  skillet  over  medium  heat    Add  zucchini, 
onion,  1/2  teaspoon  sah,  oregano,  and  basil.  Cook  and  stir  until  zucchini  is 
tender,  about  5  minutes    Increase  heat,  and  continue  to  cook  until  moisture  is 
completely  evaporated,  stirring  occasionally   Remove  from  heat.  Toss  with 
cheese,  and  immediately  distribute  evenly  on  bottom  of  pie  shell    In  bowl,  mix 
half-and-half  with  cornstarch    Beat  in  eggs,  nutmeg,  hot  pepper  sauce,  and 
remaining  1/4  teaspoon  salt    Pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  at  400  degrees  until  set 
and  lightly  browned  on  top,  about  25  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  at  room  tempera- 
ture. Makes  6  servings. 


224 


Vegetables  and  Side  Dishes 


Zucchini  Casserole 

6    cups  zucchini,  sliced  2    large  onions,  sliced 

1    12-ounce  can  tomatoes  1    teaspoon  oregano 

cracker  crumbs  grated  cheese 

butter  or  margarine 

In  a  little  mehed  butter  or  margarine,  cook  zucchini  and  onions  together  until 
tender,  but  not  too  soft.  Drain.  Cut  up  tomatoes,  pour  into  pan  with  zucchini 
and  onions,  add  oregano,  and  mix.  Put  a  layer  of  zucchini  mixture  in  bottom 
of  greased  baking  dish;  top  with  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  and  a  layer  of  grated 
cheese.  Repeat  layers  until  all  mixture  is  used.  Bake  for  20  minutes  in  300 
degree  oven. 


Parmesan  Baked  Potatoes 

8    medium  unpeeled  red  6    Tablespoons  butter 

or  white  potatoes  or  margarine 

3    Tablespoons  grated  Parmesan 
cheese 

Cut  potatoes  in  half  lengthwise    Meh  butter  and  pour  into  a  9xl3x2-inch 
baking  dish.  Sprinkle  Parmesan  cheese  over  butter.  Place  potatoes  with  cut 
side  down  over  cheese.  Bake  uncovered  at  400  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes 
or  until  tender.  Serves  8. 

Michelle  Bishop  Darden,  Virginia  Beach,  Virginia 


225 


CONTRIBUTORS 


Sherry  Arendt 

"Corky"  Proffitt  Bailey 

Jean  Ann  Bailey 

Ray  Baker 

Ruth  Barco 

Bayside  Junior  High  Faculty 

Louise  Bland 

Marguerite  Brassell 

Central  Office,  VB  Schools 

Jane  Cheek 

Helen  Taylor  Clark 

Josephine  Proffitt  Clements 

Eleanor  Cooke 

Jim  Darden 

Michelle  Bishop  Darden 

Joann  DeFilippo 

Dot  Denton 

Selma  Jean  Everett 

Janie  Proffitt  Flippo 

Sara  S.  Gabel 

Debby  Gooch 

June  Hand-Decker 

Sharon  Haring 

Augusta  Jane  Hogan 

Meg  Heckel 

Anne  Hopewell 

"Pete"  Hughey 

Mary  Hyde 

Kempsville  High  Faculty 

Gerda  L'Heureux 

Elsie  Lockhart 

Joan  Manuel 


Dottie  McCarson 
Nancy  McCowen 
Sara  Moss  McCowen 
Diane  Post  Miller 
Jeannine  Moss 
Mary  S.  Moss 
Annie  Fox  Proffitt 
Bruce  Proffitt 
Don  Proffitt 
Gail  Boyle  Proffitt 
Genevieve  Proffitt 
Jeanne  Miller  Proffitt 
Jennifer  Taylor  Proffitt 
Lawrence  Proffitt 
Leon  Proffitt 
Mae  Hogan  Proffitt 
Michael  Proffitt 
"Sis"  Waid  Proffitt 
Stephen  Proffitt 
Susan  Proffitt 
Dottie  Reynolds 
Emily  Groover  Shelley 
Rose  Snyder 
Annie  Harrell  Stewart 
Helen  Stewart 
Robert  Stewart 
Iva  Suttles 
Alice  Heath  Taylor 
Jean  Jordan  Taylor 
Michelle  Taylor 
Judy  Ward 
Anne  Proffitt  Wine 


226 


INDEX 


Alene's  Biscuits  1 1 

Almond  Green  Beans  223 

Ambrosia  Pie  197 

Angel  Food  Cake  Dessert  161 

Angel  Salad  89 

Anne's  Chocolate  Cake  121 

Ann's  Com  Muffins  8 

Aim's  Meat  Loaf  35 

Appetizers 

Artichoke  Dip  22 

Braunschweiger  Pate  24 

Cheese  Ball  23 

Cheese  Biscuits  23 

Chicken  Salad  Miniatures  22 

Chili  Dip  20 

Cucumber  Tea  Sandwiches  19 

Ribbon  Cream  Cheese  and  Olive 
Sandwiches  20 

Salmon  Ball  25 

Sausage  Tid-Bits  2 1 

Sesame  Dip  25 

Shrimp  Spread  25 

Smoky- Meat  Balls  21 
Apple  Brown  Betty  178 
Apple  Pecan  Cake  127 
Apple  Rice  Pudding  175 
Apples 

Autumn  Apple  Salad  85 

Gretchen's  Apple  Dessert  179 

Quick  Apple  Pie  183 

Sour  Cream  Apple  Pie  182 
Apricot  Salad  88 


Artichoke  Dip  22 
Asparagus  au  Gratin  223 
Asparagus  Salad  92 

Aunt  Seignie  Jennette's  Chocolate  Fudge 
150 


B 


Bacon 

Sweet  Potato-Bacon  Boats  218 
Bake  and  Forget  'em  156 
Baked  Banana  Pie  198 
Baked  Bananas  179 
Baked  Celery  Parmesan  211 
Baked  Chicken  for  the  Grill  67 
Baked  Chicken  with  Sour  Cream  49 
Baked  Country  Ham  42 
Baked  Custard  176 
Baked  Flounder  64 
Baked  Peanut  Butter  Chicken  52 
Baked  Rock  Fish  63 
Baked  Stuffed  Shrimp  55 
Baked  Tomatoes  222 
Baking  Potatoes  214 
Banana  Whip  179 
Bananas 

Baked  179 

Baked  Banana  Pie  198 

Christmas  Salad  86 
Barbecue  78 
Barbecue  Sauce  No.  1  79 
Barbecue  Sauce  No.  2  79 
Barbecue  Sauce  No.  3  79 
Barbecued  Chicken  67 
Barbecued  Hot  Dogs  46 


227 


Index 


Barbecued  Spare  Ribs  68 
Beans 

Calico  Bean  Soup  109 

Canned  207 

Easy  Baked  208 
Beans  with  Ham  Hock  43 
Beef 

Ann's  Meat  Loaf  35 

Beef  and  Vegetable  Soup  107 

Beef  Kebab  65 

Beef  Roast  38 

Beef  Stew  113 

Cabbage  Soup  with  Meat  Balls  108 

Eas>'Chih  41 

Eye  of  Round  Roast  39 

Hamburger  Quiche  36 

Lasagna  44 

Meat  Loaf  35,  36 

Pepper  Steak  with  Cheddar  Noodles  41 

Pot  Roast  39 

Rouladen  40 

Spaghetti  37 

Spaghetti  Casserole  37 
Beef  and  Vegetable  Soup  107 
BeefKabab  65 
Beef  Roast  38 
Beef  Stew  113 

Beet  Cucumber  Salad  Ring  97 
Beet  Salad  92 
Beets 

Harvard  209 
Beverages 

Carpenter's  Punch  27 

Champagne  Punch  27 

Daquari  Punch  28 

English  Wassail  28 

Fruit  Punch  26  * 

Iced  Coffee  Punch  27 

Punch  26 
Bing  Cherry  Salad  86 


Biscotti 

Hazelnut  Biscotti  7 
Biscuit  Tortoni   163 
Biscuits 

Alene's  11 

Sweet  Potato  16 
Black  Iron  Skillet  Cornbread  1 3 
Black  Walnut  Ice-Box  Cookies  159 
Blueberries 

Frosty  Lemon  Blueberry  Pie  199 
Blueberry  Pie  199 
Blueberry  Salad  91 
Bluefish  66 
Boiled  Custard  178 
Bourbon  Balls.  Kentucky 

Kentucky  Bourbon  Balls  32 
Bourbon  Walnut  Pound  Cake  135 
Braunschweiger  Pate  24 
Bread  and  Butter  Cucumber  Pickles  71 
Bread  Pudding  and  Lemon  Sauce  177 
BREADS  1-16 

Alene's  Biscuits  11 

Ann's  Corn  Muffins  8 

Black  Iron  Skillet  Cornbread  13 

Breakfast  Gems  10 

Classic  White  3 

Corn  Dumplings   12 

Cornmeal  Wafines  14 

Delmonico  Rolls  5 

Eye-Popping  Pancake  15 

German  Dumplings  13 

Hazelnut  Biscotti  7 

Janie's  Hot  Rolls  5 

Jo's  Spoon  Bread  8 

Morehead  City  Hush  Puppies  6 

Mrs.  Bleeker's  Waffles  14 

Old-Fashioned  Spoon  Bread  1 1 

Onion  Sourdough  2 

Pineapple  Bran  Muffins  9 

Rumford  Dumplings  9 


228 


Index 


Rye  and  Indian  Muffins  7 

Salt-Rjsing  4 

Soft  Gingerbread  16 

Sourdough  1 

Sourdough  Pancakes  15 

Sticky  Buns  30 

Stravvberr>'  6 

War  Bread  and  Brown  Bread  10 
Breakfast  Favonte  47 
Breakfast  Gems  10 
Bridge  Salad  84 
Broccoli  Casserole  208 
Broccoli  Cheese  Casserole  208 
Broccoli  Salad  No.  1  93 
Broccoli  Salad  No  2  94 
Brown  Sugar  Pound  Cake  136 
BrowTi  Sugar  Sauce  202 
Brownies  156 
Brunswick  Stew  114 
Bubbling  Pie  181 
Buttermilk  Pie  193 


Cabbage 

Carolina  Cole  Slaw  93 

Colorful  Cole  Slaw  94 

Harvey  House  Slaw  95 

Ladies'  209 

Red  215 

Sauerkraut  Salad  96 
Cabbage  Soup  with  Meat  Balls  108 
Cakes  See  also  Icings 

Anne's  Chocolate  121 

Apple  Pecan  127 

Bourbon  Walnut  Pound  135 

Brown  Sugar  Pound  136 

Carrot  140 

Chocolate  123 

Chocolate  Chip  125 

Chocolate  Chip  Date  124 


Chocolate  Nut  126 

Chocolate  Pound  127 

Chocolate  Truffle  125 

Do  Nothing  137 

Dr.  Byrd  129 

Grandmother's  140 

Granny's  Chocolate  123 

Granny's  Pound  135 

Hermit  132 

Janie's  Lemon  Pound  133 

Kentucky  Pound  1 34 

Kentuck>  Whiskey  138 

Lemon  Poppy  Seed  130 

Mary's  Chocolate  124 

Minnehaha  136 

Mississippi  Mud  126 

Oatmeal  139 

Old-fashioned  Pound  1 34 

Our  Emily's  Chocolate  122 

Perfect  Pound  130 

Pineapple  Coconut   141 

Pink  Marble  139 

Presbyterian  Pound  137 

Queen  138 

Romeo  and  Juliet   127 

Sour  Cream  Coconut  1 3 1 

Washington  and  Domestic  133 

Wedding  131 
Calico  Bean  Soup  109 
Candies 

Aunt  Seignie  Jennette's  Chocolate  Fudge 
150 

Candy  for  Children  152 

Divinit\'  Fudge   148 

Fabulous  Fudge  149 

Fondant   1 47 

Fudge  149 

Fudgemallow  148 

Marshmailow  Drops   147 

Microv\aA e  Pecan  Brittle  1 5 1 


229 


Index 


Million  Dollar  Fudge  150 

Noodle  153 

Peanut  153 

Peanut  Butter  Chewy  152 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge  151 

Sea  Foam  148 

Sugar  Coated  Peanuts  153 
Candy  for  Children  152 
Canned  Beans  207 
Caramel 

Grandmother  ProSitt's  Caramel  Filling 
144 

Grandmother  Stewart's  Caramel  Filling 
145 
Caramel  Pie  182 
Carolina  Cole  Slaw  93 
CarolinaTangy  Vegetable  Salad  99 
Carpenters'  Punch  27 
Carrot  Cake  140 
Carrot  Puff  210 
Carrots 

Copper  Pennies  2 1 1 

Honey  Glazed  210 
Casseroles 

Broccoli  208 

Broccoli  Cheese  208 

Chicken  Cashew  53 

Chicken  or  Turkey  5 1 

Chicken  Tetrazini  54 

Crab  and  Shrimp  59 

Crab  Souffle  59 

Crabmeat  60 

Crabmeat  au  Gratin  57 

Ham  and  Sweet  Potato  47 

Potato  215 

Seafood  56 

Spaghetti  37  0 

Spinach  221 

Squash  222 

Sweet  Potato  216 


Tuna  Fish  Noodles  62 

Zucchini  225 
Celery 

Baked  Celery  Parmesan  2 1 1 

Exotic  210 

Peas  and  Celery  214 
Champagne  Punch  27 
Charlotte  Russe  168 
Cheese 

Cheese  for  Sandwiches  117 

Pimento  Cheese  Sandwich  Spread  116 
Cheese  Ball  23 
Cheese  Biscuits  23 
Cheese  for  Sandwiches  117 
Cheesed  Potatoes  216 
Cherries 

Bing  Cherrv  Salad  86 

Kentucky  Bourbon  Balls  32 

Petite  Cherry  Tarts  31 
Cherry  Salad  85 
Chess  Cake  189 
Chess  Pie  193 
Chicken 

Baked  Chicken  for  the  Grill  67 

Baked  Chicken  with  Sour  Cream  49 

Baked  Peanut  Butter  Chicken  52 

Barbecued  Chicken  67 

Brunswick  Stew  114 

Chicken  a  la  Nell  50 

Chicken  and  Pineapple  Sandwiches  1 16 

Chicken  Cacciatore  53 

Chicken  Cashew  53 

Chicken  Divan  49 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Casserole  5 1 

Chicken  Pot  Pie  51 

Chicken  Salad  Miniatures  22 

Chicken  Tetrazini  54 

CoqauVm  48 

Cumed  Chicken  54 

Easv  Chicken  Pie  52 


230 


Index 


Marinated  Chicken  Breasts  50 
Chicken  Tetra/ini  54 
Chicken  a  la  Nell  50 
Chicken  and  Pineapple  Sandwiches   1 16 
Chicken  Cacciatore  53 
Chicken  Cashew  53 
Chicken  Di\an  49 
Chicken  or  Turke>  Casserole  5 1 
Chicken  Pot  Pie  51 
Chicken  Salad  Miniatures  22 
Chicken  Salads 

Chunk>  Chicken  101 

Exotic  Clucken  100 

Oriental  Chicken  100 
Chili 

Eas>  Chill  41 
Chili  Dip  20 
Chili  Sauce  76 
Chocolate 

Anne's  Chocolate  Cake  121 

Aunt  Seignie  Jennette's  Chocolate  Fudge 
150 

Bake  and  Forget  'em  1 56 

Brownies  156 

Chocolate  Cake  123 

Chocolate  Chip  Cake  125 

Chocolate  Chip  Cookies  1 54 

Chocolate  Chip  Date  Cake  124 

Chocolate  Eclair  Dessert  164 

Chocolate  Ice-Box  Pie   197 

Chocolate  Icing  143 

Chocolate  Nut  Cake  126 

Chocolate  Nut  Pic  188 

Chocolate  Pie  189 

Chocolate  Pound  Cake  127 

Chocolate  Sauce  203 

Chocolate  Silk  Pic  195 

Chocolate  Syrup  BrovMiies  158 

Chocolate  Truffle  Cake  125 

Cocoa  Syrup  203 


Derby  Tarts   191 

Fabulous  Fudge  149 

Fudge  Cand>    149 

Fudge  Pudding  1 75 

Fudge  Squares  155 

Fudgemallow  Cand>    1 48 

German  Chocolate  Pie  1 88 

Granny's  Chocolate  Cake  123 

Hershey  Bar  Pie  187 

Mar>'s  Chocolate  Cake  1 24 

Michael's  Mud  Pie  1 96 

Million  Dollar  Fudge   150 

Mississippi  Mud  Cake  126 

Our  Emily's  Chocolate  Cake  122 

Presb>lerian  Chocolate  Chess  Pie  189 

Rum  Pie  190 

Sour  Cream  Brownies  157 

Toffee  Bars  155 
Chocolate  Cake  123 
Chocolate  Chip  Cake  125 
Chocolate  Chip  Cookies  1 54 
Chocolate  Chip  Date  Cake  124 
Chocolate  Eclair  Dessert  164 
Chocolate  Ice-Box  Pie   197 
Chocolate  Icing  143 
Chocolate  Nut  Cake  126 
Chocolate  Nut  Pie  188 
Chocolate  Pie  189 
Chocolate  Pound  Cake  127 
Chocolate  Sauce  203 
Chocolate  Silk  Pie  195 
Chocolate  SvTup  Brownies  158 
Chocolate  Truffle  Cake  125 
Chow  Chow  (1939)  74 
Chowders 

Jim's  Clam   115 
Christmas  Salad  86 
Chunky  Chicken  Salad  101 
Clams 

Jim's  Clam  Chowders  115 


231 


Index 


Classic  While  Bread  3 
Cocoa  Syrup  203 
Coconut 

Impossible  Pie  188 

Sour  Cream  Coconut  Cake  131 
Coconut  Icing  145 
Coffee 

Iced  Coffee  Punch  27 
Cole  Slaw 

Carolina  Cole  Slaw  93 

Colorful  Cole  Slaw  94 

Harvey  House  Slaw  95 
Colorful  Cole  Slaw  94 
Colorings  for  Soups  and  Gravies  109 
Congealed  Cucumber  Salad  96 
Conversation  Snacks  See  also  Snacks 

Crepes  Beignets  with  Raspberry  Dip  29 

Kentucky  Bourbon  Balls  32 

Pecan  Tarts  3 1 

Petite  Cherrv  Tarts  31 

Sally  Lunn  Muffins  30 

Salted  Pecans  30 

Sticky  Buns  30 
Cooked  Salad  Dressing  104 
Cookies 

Bake  and  Forget  'em  156 

Black  Walnut  Ice-Box  159 

Brownies  156 

Chocolate  Chip  154 

Chocolate  Syrup  Brownies  1 58 

Fudge  Squares  155 

Lemon  Bars  160 

Macadamia  Nut  Balls  160 

Nellie  Faye's  Date  Bars  158 

No-Bake  Delight  Bars  159 

Nut  157 

Nutty  Fingers  1 54  ^ 

Pie  Crust  155 

Sour  Cream  Brownies  157 

Toffee  Bars  155 


Cooking  Fish  62 
Copper  Pennies  2 1 1 
CoqauVin  48 
Com 

Stewed  212 

Sweet  211 
Com  Dumplings  12 
Corn  Pudding  212 
Corn  Salad  96 
Corn  Soup  1 10 
Cornmeal  Waffles  14 
Crab 

Baked  Stuffed  Shrimp  55 

Crabmeat  au  Gratin  57 

Crabmeat  Casserole  60 

Deviled  Crab  60 

Maryland  Crabcakes  6 1 
Crab  and  Shrimp  Casserole  59 
Crab  Salad  101 
Crab  Souffle  59 
Crab  Swiss  Bites  24 
Crabmeat  Casserole  60 
Cranberry  Pie  184 
Cream  Cheese  Frosting  146 
Crepes  Beignets  with  Raspberry  Dip  29 
Crumb  Cmst  196 
Cmmb  Pie  (Cracker  Cake)  1 95 
Cucumber  Tea  Sandwiches  19 
Cucumbers 

Beet  Cucumber  Salad  Ring  97 

Congealed  Cucumber  Salad  96 

Old-Fashioned  94 
Curried  Chicken  54 
Curried  Fish  Sandwiches  117 
CurnedRice  220 
Curry 

Curried  Cliicken  54 

Curned  Fish  Sandwiches  117 

Curried  Rice  220 

Harriett's  Rice  220 


232 


Index 


Curr>'  Soup  107 
Custards  See  Puddings 

D 

Daiquiri  Punch  28 
Date  Delight  169 
Dates 

Chocolate  Chip  Date  Cake  124 

Macaroon  Pie  196 

Nellie  Faye's  Date  Bars  158 
Day-Before  Salad  98 
Delicious  Dessert  1 80 
Delicious  Summer  Fruit  Salad  89 
Delmonico  Rolls  5 
Derby  Tarts  191 
Desserts 

Angel  Food  Cake  1 6 1 

Apple  Baked  Alaska  170 

Apple  Brown  Bett>   178 

Apple  Rice  Pudding  175 

Baked  Bananas  179 

Baked  Custard  176 

Banana  Whip  179 

Biscuit  Tortoni   163 

Boiled  Custard  178 

Bread  Pudding  and  Lemon  Sauce  1 77 

Charlotte  Russe  168 

Chocolate  Eclair  164 

Date  Delight  169 

Delicious  180 

English  Christmas  Plum  Pudding  173 

Fresh  Peach  Ice  Cream  172 

Fruit  Whip  175 

Fudge  Pudding  175 

Gretchen's  Apple  179 

Heavenly  Hash  Ice  Cream  Loaf  171 

Ice  Cream-Uncooked-Basic  Recipe  173 

Java-Rum  Torte  166 

Lemon  Cake  Pudding  174 

Lemon  Ice  Cream  171 


Lemon  Sherbet  172 

Maple  Parfait  177 

Minted  Angel  Allegretti  162 

"New  Dessert"   167 

Old  South  Ambrosia  166 

Orange  Chiffon  167 

Peach  Cobbler  180 

Pineapple  Sherbet  168 

Porcupine  Pudding  176 

Pudding  174 

Raspbeny  Macaroon  170 

Sherry  Pudding  176 

Texas  Pudding  164 

Three  Layered  165 

Tipsy  Caice  No.  1   162 

Tipsy  Cake  No.  2   163 

Trifle  169 

Tutti-Frutti    173 
Deviled  Crab  60 

Deviled  Eggs  for  Sandwiches  118 
Divinit>  Fudge  148 
Do  Nothing  Cake  137 
Dr.  B>Td  Cake  129 
Dressing  for  Cole  Slaw  104 
Dumplings 

Corn  Dumplings  12 

German  Dumplings  1 3 

Rumford  Dumplings  9 

E 

Eas>  Baked  Beans  208 
Easv  Chicken  "Pie"  52 
Eas>  Chih  41 
Eas>  String  Beans  223 
Eggs 

Breakfast  Favorite  47 

Deviled  Eggs  for  Sandwiches  118 

Hamburger  Quiche  36 

Quiche  Lorraine  45 
English  Christmas  Plum  Pudding  173 


233 


Index 


English  Wassail  28 
ENTERTAINING  ABC'S   19-32 

See  also  Table  of  Contents 
Exotic  Celerv  210 
Exotic  Chicken  Salad  100 
Eye  of  Round  Roast  39 
Eye-Popping  Pancake  15 


Fabulous  Fudge  149 
Figs 

Mrs.  Burnham's  Fig  Cake  128 
Fish 

Baked  Flounder  64 

Baked  Rock  Fish  63 

Bluefish  66 

Curried  Fish  Sandwiches  1 1 7 

Fish  Stew  113 

Fish  Supreme  65 

Salmon  Cakes  64 

Salmon  Mousse  103 

Tuna  Fish  Noodles  62 

Walnut  Tuna  Sandwiches  117 
Fish  Stew   113 
Fish  Supreme  65 
Fondant  Candv   147 
Fondue  Sauces  77 
French  Onion  Soup  1 1 1 
Fresh  Green  Beans  224 
Fresh  Peach  Ice  Cream  1 72 
Fresh  Shrimp  Salad  101 
Frostings  and  Fillings  See  Icings 
Frost\- Lemon  Blueberr>  Pie  199 
Frozen  Fruit  Salad  88 
Fruit  Cakes 

Hermit   132 

Wedding  131 
Fruit  Nut  Filling  144 
Fruit  Punch  26 
Fruit  Whip  175 


Fruits 

Angel  Salad  89 

Apple  Baked  Alaska  170 

Apple  BrowTi  Bett>'  178 

Apricot  Salad  88 

Baked  Bananas  179 

Banana  Whip  179 

Bing  Cherrs  Salad  86 

Blueberr>-  91 

Blueberry  Pie  199 

Blueberry- Salad  91 

Bridge  Salads  84 

Cherry  Salad  85 

Christmas  Salad  86 

Cranberry  Pie  184 

Delicious  Dessert  180 

Delicious  Summer  Fruit  Salad  89 

English  Christmas  Plum  Pudding  173 

Frozen  Fruit  Salad  88 

Fruit  Whip   175 

Grandmother's  Strawberries  165 

Grapefruit  Date  Salad  84 

Grapefruit  Salad  83 

Gretchen's  Apple  Dessert  179 

Heavenly  Hash  90 

Heavenh  Hash  Ice  Cream  Loaf  171 

Lemon  Pie  1 86 

Lemon  Sherbet  172 

Mrs.  Reid's  Pie  200 

Old  South  Ambrosia  166 

Orange  Ambrosia  169 

Orange  Pie  187 

Peach  Cobbler  180 

Peach  Custard  Pie  186 

Pear  Honey  80 

Pineapple  Coconut  Pie  185 

Pineapple  Marshmallow  Salad  87 

Pineapple  Nut  Salad  90 

Raspberry  Macaroon  Dessert  170 

Spiced  Peach  Salad  87 


234 


Index 


Strawbem- Pie  183 
Watergate  Salad  91 
Fudge  Cand>'  149 
Fudge  Pudding  175 
Fudge  Squares  155 
Fudgemallow  Candy  148 
Funeral  Tart  Filling  199 


Garlic  Butter  77 

Gaucho  77 

Georgia  Pecan  Pie  191 

German  Chocolate  Pie  188 

German  Dumplings  13 

Good  Grilled  Burgers  68 

Grandmother  Proffitt's  Caramel  Filling  144 

Grandmother  Stewart's  Caramel  Filling 

145 
Grandmother's  Cake  140 
Grandmother's  Pastry  181 
Grandmother's  Strawberries  165 
Granny's  Chocolate  Cake  123 
Granny's  Pound  Cake  135 
Grapefruit  Date  Salad  84 
Grapefruit  Salad  83 
Grasshopper  Pie  194 
Gravies 

Coloring  for  Soups  and  Gravies  109 
Green  Beans 

Almond  223 

Easy  String  223 

Fresh  Green  224 
Green  Peas  213 
Gretchen's  Apple  Dessert  179 
Grilling 

Baked  Chicken  for  the  Grill  67 

Barbecued  Chicken  67 

Barbecued  Spare  Ribs  68 

Beef  Kebabs  65 

Bluefish  66 


Fish  Supreme  65 

Good  Grilled  Burgers  68 

Shrimp  on  the  Grill  67 


H 


Ham 
Baked  Country  Ham  42 
Beans  with  Ham  Hock  43 
Ham  and  Sweet  Potato  Casserole  47 
Ham  Sandwich  Spread  118 
Smithfield  Ham  Spread  117 

Ham  and  Noodle  Casserole  45 

Ham  and  Sweet  Potato  Casserole  47 

Ham  Sandwich  Spread  118 

Hamburger  Quiche  36 

Hard  Sauce  203 

Harriett's  Rice  Curry  220 

Harvard  Beets  209 

Harvey  House  Slaw  95 

Hawaiian  Mayonnaise  100 

Hayman  Sweet  Potatoes  217 

Hazelnut  Biscotti  7 

Heavenly  Hash  90 

Heavenly  Hash  Ice  Cream  Loaf  171 

Hermit  Cake  132 

Hershey  Bar  Pie  187 

Honey  Glazed  Carrots  210 

Hot  Dogs 
Barbecued  Hot  Dogs  46 

Hush  Puppies  6 


Ice  Cream 
Fresh  Peach  172 

Heavenly  Hash  Ice  Cream  Loaf  171 
Lemon  171 
Lemon  Sherbet  172 
Maple  Parfait  177 
Peanut  Butter  Ice  Cream  Pie  201 


235 


Index 


Pineapple  Sherbet  168 
Ice  Cream  -  Uncooked  -  Basic  Recipe  173 
Iced  Coffee  Punch  27 
Icings 

Chocolate  143 

Coconut  145 

Cream  Cheese  Frosting  146 

Fruit  Nut  Fillmg  144 

Grandmother  Proffitt's  Caramel  Filling 
144 

Grandmother  Stewart's  Caramel  Filling 
145 

Ivory  Frosting  142 

Lemon  Filling  146 

Marshmallow  143 

Mocha  Frosting  146 

Plain  Frosting  142 

Ranch  Cake  143 

Seven  Minute  145 
Impossible  Pie  1 88 
Ivory  Frosting  142 


Janie's  Hot  Rolls  5 

Janie's  Lemon  Pound  Cake  133 

Java-Rum  Torte  166 

Jim's  Clam  Chowder  115 

Jo's  Spoon  Bread  8 

Juic>  Oranges  184 

K 

Kebabs 

Beef  Kebab  65 

Seafood  Kebab  58 
Kentucky  Bourbon  Balls  32 
Kentuck\  Pound  Cake  1 34 
Kentuck\  Whiskey  Cake  138 


Ladies'  Cabbage  209 

Lasagna  44 

Lemon  Bars  160 

Lemon  Cake  Pudding  174 

Lemon  Filling  146 

Lemon  Ice  Cream  171 

Lemon  Pie  186 

Lemon  Popp\  Seed  Cake  1 30 

Lemon  Sauce  204 

Lemon  Sherbet  172 

Lemonade  Pie  200 

M 

Macadamia  Nut  Balls  160 
Macaroon  Pie  196 
MAIN  DISHES  35-68 

See  also  Table  of  Contents 
Maple  Parfait  177 
Marinated  Chicken  Breasts  50 
Marshmallow  Drops  147 
Marshmallow  Icing  143 
Maryland  Crabcakes  61 
Mary's  Chocolate  Cake  124 
Meat  Balls 
Cabbage  Soup  with  108 
Smok\  Meat  Balls  21 
Meat  Loaf  35,  36 
Meat  Tenderizer  40 
Michael's  Mud  Pie  196 
Microwave  Pecan  Brittle  151 
Mile-High  Strawberr\  Pie  198 
Million  Dollar  Fudge  150 
Minnehaha  Cake  136 
Minted  Angel  Allegretti  162 
Mississippi  Mud  Cake   1 26 
Mocha  Frosting   146 
Molded  Vegetable  Salad  99 
Morehead  City  Hush  Puppies  6 


236 


Index 


Mother's  Potato  Salad  97 
Mother's  Quick  Potato  Soup  1 1 1 
Mrs.  Bleeker's  Waffles  14 
Mrs  Bumham's  Fig  Cake  128 
Mrs.  Reid's  Pie  200 
Muffins 

Ann's  Corn  8 

Breakfast  Gems  10 

Pineapple  Bran  9 

Rye  and  Indian  7 

Sally  Lunn  29 

N 

Nellie  Faye's  Date  Bars  158 
"New  Dessert"   167 
No-Bake  Delight  Bars  159 
Noodle  Candy  153 
Nut  Cookies  157 
Nuts 

Black  Walnut  Ice-Box  Cookies  159 

Georgia  Pecan  Pie  191 

Macadamia  Nut  Balls   160 

Microwave  Pecan  Brittle   151 

Mrs.  Reid's  Pie  200 

Nut  Cookies  157 

Peanut  Candy  153 

Pecan  Molasses  Pie  190 

Pecan  Pie  190 

Pecan  Tarts  31 

Salted  Pecans  30 

Shelhng  29 

Sugar  Coated  Peanuts  1 53 

Sweet  Potato  Pecan  Pie  192 
Nutty  Chocolate  Sauce  204 
Nutty  Fingers  1 54 

o 

Oatmeal  Cake  Squares  139 
Old  South  Ambrosia  166 


Old-Fashioned  Cucumbers  94 

Old-Fashioned  Pound  Cake  1 3  4 

Old-Fashioned  Spoon  Bread  1 1 

Onion  Ormoloo  2 1 3 

Onion  Pie  213 

Onion  Sourdough  Bread  2 

Onions 

French  Onion  Soup  1 1 1 
Orange  Ambrosia  169 
Orange  Chiffon  Dessert  167 
Orange  Pie  187 
Oranges 

Heavenly  Hash  90 

Juicy  184 
Oriental  Chicken  Salad  100 
Our  Emily's  Chocolate  Cake  122 
CHsterStew  115 
CH'sters 

Ov'sterStew  115 

CKsters  au  Gratin  62 

Scalloped  61 
Ovsters  au  Gratin  62 


Pancakes 

Eye-Popping  Pancakes  15 

Sourdough  Pancakes  15 
Parmesan  Baked  Potatoes  225 
Pasta 

Ham  and  Noodle  Casserole  45 

Lasagna  44 

Pepper  Steak  with  Cheddar  Noodles  41 

Spaghetti  37 

Spaghetti  Casserole  37 

Spaghetti  Sauce  38 

Summer  Salad  98 

Tuna  Fish  Noodles  62 
Peach  Cobbler  180 
Peach  Custard  Pie  186 
Peach-Potato  Puffs  219 


237 


Index 


Peaches 

Fresh  Peach  Ice  Cream  1 72 

Spiced  Peach  Salad  87 
Peanut  Butter  Chewy  152 
Peanut  Butter  Fudge  1 5 1 
Peanut  Butter  Ice  Cream  Pie 

Ice  Cream  20 1 
Peanut  Butter  Sauce  202 
Peanut  Candy  153 
Pear  Honey  80 
Peas 

Green  213 
Peas  and  Celer)   214 
Pecan  Molasses  Pie  190 
Pecan  Pie  190 
Pecan  Tarts  3 1 
Pepper  Relish  75 

Pepper  Steak  with  Cheddar  Noodles  41 
Perfect  Pound  Cake  130 
Petite  Cherr>' Tarts  31 
Pickled  Nasturtiums  71 
Pickled  Peppers  73 
Pickles 

Bread  and  Butter  Cucumber  71 

Pickled  Nasturtiums  71 

Pickled  Peppers  73 

Sweet  Pickles  72 

Sweet-Tart  Pickles  72 

Universal  Pickles  73 

Virginia  Damson  Pickles  73 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickles  74 
PICKLES,  RELISHES,  AND  SAUCES 

71-80 
PicoUilly  75 
Pie  Crust  Cookies  155 
Pies 

Ambrosia  197  ^^ 

Baked  Banana  198 

Blueberry   199 

Bubbling  Pie  181 


Buttermilk  193 

Caramel  182 

Chess  193 

Chess  Cake  189 

Chocolate  189 

Chocolate  Ice-Box  197 

Chocolate  Nut  188 

Chocolate  Silk  195 

Cranberry   184 

Crumb  195 

Crumb  Crust  196 

Derby  Tarts  191 

Funeral  Tart  Filling  199 

Georgia  Pecan  191 

German  Chocolate  188 

Grandmother's  Pastry   181 

Grasshopper  194 

HersheyBar  187 

Impossible  IBS 

Lemon   186.  200 

Macaroon  196 

Michael's  Mud  196 

MiIe-High  Strawberry  198 

Mrs.  Reid's  200 

Orange  187 

Peach  Custard  186 

Peanut  Butter  Ice  Cream  20 1 

Pecan  190 

Pecan  Molasses  190 

Pineapple  Coconut  185 

Plain  Pastry    181 

Presbylerian  Chocolate  Chess  189 

Quick  Apple  183 

Ritz  Cracker  195 

Rum  190 

Sour  Cream  Apple  182 

Squash  193 

Strawberry  183 

Sweet  Potato  192 

Sweet  Potato  Pecan  192 


238 


Index 


Vinegar  194 
Pimento  Cheese  Sandwich  Spread  116 
Pineapple 

Angel  Salad  89 

Bridge  Salad  84 

Chicken  and  Pineapple  Sandwiches  1 16 

Christmas  Salad  86 

Heavenly  Hash  90 

Watergate  Salad  91 
Pineapple  Bran  Muffins  9 
Pineapple  Coconut  Cake  141 
Pineapple  Coconut  Pie  185 
Pineapple  Delight  167 
Pineapple  Marshmallow  Salad  87 
Pineapple  Nut  Salad  90 
Pink  Marble  Cake  139 
Plain  Frosting  142 
Plain  Pastry  181 
Porcupine  Pudding  176 
Pork 

Baked  Country  Ham  42 

Barbecued  Hot  Dogs  46 

Barbecued  Spare  Ribs  68 

Beans  with  Ham  Hock  43 

Breakfast  Favorite  47 

Ham  and  Noodle  Casserole  45 

Ham  and  Sweet  Potato  Casserole  47 

Ham  Sandwich  Spread  118 

Pork  Chops  with  Amber  Rice  43 

Quiche  Lorraine  45 

Rice  and  Ham  Salad  103 

Smithiield  Ham  Spread  117 
Pork  Chops  with  Amber  Rice  43 
Pot  Roast  39 
Potato  Casserole  215 
Potato  Salad 

Mother's  97 

Shrimp  102 
Potatoes 

Baking  214 


Cheesed  216 

Mother's  Quick  Potato  Soup  1 1 1 

Parmesan  Baked  225 

Scalloped  214 

Stuffed  217 
Poultry  See  Chicken  and  Turkey 
Pound  Cakes 

Bourbon  Walnut  135 

Brown  Sugar  1 36 

Chocolate  127 

Granny's  135 

Janie's  Lemon  133 

Kentucky  134 

Old-Fashioned  134 

Perfect  130 

Presbyterian  137 
Presbyterian  Chocolate  Chess  Pie  189 
Presbyterian  Pound  Cake  137 
Puddings 

Apple  Rice  175 

Baked  Custard  176 

Boiled  Custard  178 

Bread  with  Lemon  Sauce  177 

Chocolate  Eclair  Dessert  164 

English  Christmas  Plum  173 

Fudge  175 

Lemon  Cake  174 

Orange  Chiffon  Dessert  167 

Porcupine  176 

Sherry  176 

Texas  Pudding  Dessert  164 

Three  Layered  Dessert  165 
Punch  26 


Queen  Cake  138 
Quiche 

Hamburger  Quiche  36 

Zucchini  224 
Quiche  Lorraine  45 


239 


Index 


Quick  Apple  Pie  183 

R 

Ranch  Cake  Icing  143 
Raspberry  Macaroon  Dessert  170 
Red  Cabbage  215 
Relishes 

Chow  Chow  (1939)  74 

Pepper  Relish  75 

Picollilly  75 

Salad  Preparation  75 
Ribbon  Cream  Cheese  and  Olive 

Sandwiches  20 
Rice 

^jple  Rice  Pudding  175 

Curried  220 

Harriett's  Rice  Curry  220 

Pork  Chops  with  Amber  Rice  43 
Rice  and  Ham  Salad  103 
Ritz  Cracker  Pie  195 
Romeo  and  Juliet  Cake  127 
Rouladen  40 
Rum  Pie  190 
Rumford  Dumplings  9 
Rve  and  Indian  Muffins  7 


Salad  Dressings 

Cooked  104 

Hawaiian  Mayonnaise  100 

Sugar  Vmegar  104 

Sweet  Pickle  Juice  97 
Salad  Preparation  75 
SALADS  83-104 

Angel  89 

Apricot  88 

Asparagus  92 

Autumn  Apple  85 

Beet  92 

Beet  Cucumber  97 


Bing  Cherry  86 

Bridge  84 

Broccoli  Salad  No,  1  93 

Broccoli  Salad  No.  2  94 

Carolina  Cole  Slaw  93 

Carolina  Tangy  Vegetable  99 

Cherry  85 

Chicken  Salad  Miniatures  22 

Christmas  86 

Chunky  Chicken  101 

Colorftil  Cole  Slaw  94 

Congealed  Cucumber  96 

Com  96 

Crab  101 

Day-Before  98 

Delicious  Summer  Fruit  89 

Exotic  Chicken  100 

Fresh  Shrimp  101 

Frozen  Fruit  88 

Grapefruit  83 

Grapefruit  Date  84 

Harvey  House  Slaw  95 

Hawiian  Mayonnaise  100 

Heavenly  Hash  90 

Molded  Vegetable  99 

Mother's  Potato  97 

Old-Fashioned  Cucumber  94 

Oriental  Chicken  100 

Pineapple  Marshmallow  87 

Pineapple  Nut  90 

Rice  and  Ham  103 

Salmon  Mousse  103 

Sauerkraut  96 

Sea  Leg  102 

Shrimp  Potato  102 

Spiced  Peach  87 

Summer  98 

Sweet  Pickle  Juice  97 

Watergate  91 
Sally  Lunn  Muffins  30 
Salmon  Ball  25 


240 


Index 


Salmon  Cakes  64 
Salmon  Mousse  103 
Salted  Pecans  30 
Sandwiches 

Cheese  117 

Chicken  and  Pineapple  116 

Cucumber  Tea  19 

Curried  Fish  117 

Deviled  Egg  118 

Ham  Spread  118 

Pimento  Cheese  Spread  116 

Ribbon  Cream  Cheese  and  Olive  20 

Smithfield  Ham  Spread  117 

Walnut  Tuna  117 
Sauces 

Barbecue  Sauce  No.  1  79 

Barbecue  Sauce  No.  2  79 

Barbecue  Sauce  No.  3  79 

Bread  Pudding  with  Lemon  177 

Brown  Sugar  202 

Chili  76 

Chocolate  203 

Cocoa  Syrup  203 

Fondue  Sauces  77 

Garhc  Butter  77 

Gaucho  77 

Hard  203 

Lemon  204 

Nutt>' Chocolate  204 

Peanut  Butter  202 

Pear  Honey  80 

Shrimp  80 

Sweet  and  Sour  77 

Tomato  Catsup  76 

Whipping  Cream  204 

Wine  202 
Sauerkraut  Salad  96 
Sausage  Tid-Bits  21 
Scalloped  CHsters  61 
Scalloped  Potatoes  214 


Sea  Foam  Candv'  148 
Sea  Leg  Salad  102 
Seafood 

Baked  Flounder  64 

Baked  Rock  Fish  63 

Baked  Stuffed  Shrimp  55 

Bluefish  66 

Cooking  Fish  62 

Crab  and  Shrimp  Casserole  59 

Crab  Salad  101 

Crabmeat  au  Gratin  57 

Crabmeat  Casserole  60 

Crabmeat  Souffle  59 

Curried  Fish  Sandwiches  1 1 7 

Deviled  Crab  60 

Fish  Stew   113 

Fish  Supreme  65 

Fresh  Shrimp  Salad  101 

Jim's  Clam  Chowder  115 

Maryland  Crabcakes  61 

Oyster  Stew  115 

Ov'sters  au  Gratin  62 

Salmon  Ball  25 

Salmon  Cakes  64 

Salmon  Mousse  103 

Scalloped  Oysters  61 

Sea  Leg  Salad  102 

Seafood  Casserole  56 

Seafood  Kebab  58 

Shrimp  Creole  56 

Shrimp  on  the  Grill  67 

Shrimp  Potato  Salad  102 

Shrimp  Scampi  57 

Shrimp  Spread  25 

Tuna  Fish  Noodles  62 

Walnut  Tuna  Sandwiches  1 1 7 
Seafood  Casserole  56 
Seafood  Kebab  58 
Sesame  Dip  25 
Seven  Minute  Icing  145 


241 


Index 


Shelling  Nuts  29 
Sherry  Pudding  176 
Shrimp 

Baked  Stuffed  55 

Crab  and  Shrimp  Casserole  59 

Fresh  Shrimp  Salad  101 

Shrimp  Creole  56 

Shrimp  on  the  Grill  67 

Shrimp  Potato  Salad  102 

Shrimp  Sauce  80 

Shrimp  Scampi  57 
Shrimp  Creole  56 
Shrimp  on  the  Grill  67 
Shrimp  Potato  Salad  102 
Shrimp  Sauce  80 
Shrimp  Scampi  57 
Shrimp  Spread  25 
Side  Dishes  See  Vegetables 
Smithfield  Ham  Spread  117 
Smoky  Meat  Balls  21 
Snacks 

Crepes  Beignets  with  Raspberry  Dip  29 

Pecan  Tarts  3 1 

Petite  Cherry  Tarts  31 

Sally  Lunn  Muffins  30 

Salted  Pecans  30 

Sticky  Buns  30 
Soft  Gingerbread  16 
Soups 

Beef  and  Vegetable  107 

Cabbage  with  Meat  Balls  108 

Calico  Bean  109 

Colorings  for  Soups  and  Gravies  109 

Corn  110 

Curry  107 

French  Onion  1 1 1 

Mother's  Quick  Potato  111 

Split  Pea  110 

Tomato  112 

Vegetable  112 


Sour  Cream  Apple  Pie  182 
Sour  Cream  Brownies  157 
Sour  Cream  Coconut  Cake  131 
Sourdough  Bread  1 
Sourdough  Pancakes  15 
Spaghetti  37 
Spaghetti  Casserole  37 
Spaghetti  Sauce  38 
Spiced  Peach  Salad  87 
Spiced  Sweet  Potatoes  218 
Spinach  Casserole  22 1 
Split  Pea  Soup  110 
Spoon  Bread 

Jo's  8 

Old-Fashioned  11 
Spreads 

Ham  Sandwich  118 

Smithfield  Ham  117 
Squash  Casserole  222 
Squash  Pie  193 

Squash  with  Water  Chestnuts  22 1 
Stewed  Corn  212 
Stews 

Beef  113 

Brunswick  114 

Fish  113 

Jim's  Clam  Chowder  115 

Oyster  115 
Sticky  Buns  30 
Strawberries 

Christmas  Salad  86 

Grandmother's  165 

Mile-High  Strawberry  Pie  198 
Strawberry  Bread  6 
Strawberry  Pie  183 
Stuffed  Potatoes  217 
Sugar  and  Salt  223 
Sugar  Coated  Peanuts  153 
Sugar  Vinegar  104 
Summer  Salad  98 


242 


Index 


Sweet  and  Sour:  77 
Sweet  Corn  2 1 1 
Sweet  Pickle  Juice  97 
Sweet  Pickles  72 
Sweet  Potato  Biscuits  16 
Sweet  Potato  Casserole  216 
Sweet  Potato  Pecan  Pie  192 
Sweet  Potato  Pie  192 
Sweet  Potato  Souffle  219 
Sweet  Potato-Bacon  Boats  218 
Sweet  Potatoes 

Ham  and  Sweet  Potato  Casserole  47 

Hay-man  217 

Peach-Potato  Puffs  219 

Spiced  218 
Sweet  S\Tups  and  Sauces  See  Sauces 
Sweet-Tart  Pickles  72 
SWEETS  121-204 

See  also  Table  of  Contents 


Tarts 

Derby  191 

Funeral  Tart  Filling  199 

Pecan  31 

Petite  Cherr\  31 
Texas  Pudding  Dessert  164 
Three  Layered  Dessert  165 
Tipsy  Caice  No.  1   162 
Tipsy  Cake  No.  2  163 
Toffee  Bars  155 
Tomato  Catsup  76 
Tomato  Soup  112 
Tomatoes 

Baked  222 

Summer  Salad  98 
Trifle  169 

Tuna  Fish  Noodles  62 
Turkey 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Casserole  51 


Chicken  Tetrazini  54 
Good  Grilled  Burgers  68 
Tutti-Frutti   173 

u 

Universal  Pickles  73 


Vegetable  Soup  112 
Vegetables 

Almond  Green  Beans  223 

Asparagus  au  Gratin  223 

Asparagus  Salad  92 

Baked  Celery  Parmesan  2 1 1 

Baked  Tomatoes  222 

Baking  Potatoes  214 

Beef  and  Vegetable  Soup  107 

Beet  Cucumber  Salad  Ring  97 

Beet  Salad  92 

Broccoli  Casserole  208 

Broccoli  Cheese  Casserole  208 

Broccoli  Salad  No.  1  93 

Broccoli  Salad  No.  2  94 

Brunswick  Stew  114 

Caimed  Beans  207 

Carolina  Cole  Slaw  93 

Carolina  Tangy  Vegetable  Salad  99 

Carrot  Puff  210 

Cheesed  Potatoes  216 

Colorful  Cole  Slaw  94 

Congealed  Cucumber  Salad  96 

Copper  Petmies  211 

Com  Pudding  212 

Corn  Salad  96 

Corn  Soup  110 

Curried  Rice  220 

Day-Before  Salad  98 

Easy  Baked  Beans  208 

Easy  String  Beans  223 


243 


Index 


Exotic  Celen   210 

French  Onion  Soup  1 1 1 

Fresh  Green  Beans  224 

Green  Peas  2 1 3 

Harriett's  Rice  Currv  220 

Har\ard  Beets  209 

Har\'ey  House  Slaw  95 

Hayman  Sweet  Potatoes  217 

Honey  Glazed  Carrots  210 

Ladies'  Cabbage  209 

Molded  Vegetable  Salad  99 

Mother's  Potato  Salad  97 

Mother's  Quick  Potato  Soup  1 1 1 

Old-Fashioned  Cucumbers  94 

Onion  Ormoloo  2 1 3 

Onion  Pie  213 

Parmesan  Baked  Potatoes  225 

Peach-Potato  Pufifs  219 

Peas  and  Celery  214 

Potato  Casserole  215 

Red  Cabbage  215 

Sauerkraut  Salad  96 

Scalloped  Potatoes  214 

Spiced  Sweet  Potatoes  218 

Spinach  Casserole  22 1 

Split  Pea  Soup  110 

Squash  Casserole  222 

Squash  with  Water  Chestnuts  22 1 

Stewed  Corn  212 

Stuffed  Potatoes  217 

Summer  Salad  98 

Sweet  Corn  211 

Sweet  Potato  Casserole  216 

Sweet  Potato  Souffle  219 

Sweet  Potato-Bacon  Boats  218 

Tomato  Soup  1 1 2 

Vegetable  Soup  112 

Zucchini  Casserole  225 

Zucchini  Quiche  224 


VEGETABLES  AND  SIDE  DISHES 

207-225 
Vinegar  Pie  194 
Virginia  Damson  Pickles  73 

w 

Waffles 

Cornmeal  14 

Mrs.  Bleeker's  Waffles  14 
Walnut  Tuna  Sandwiches  117 
War  Bread  and  Brown  Bread  10 
Washington  and  Domestic  Cake  133 
Watergate  Salad  91 
Watermelon  Rind  Pickles  74 
Wedding  Cake  131 
Whipping  Cream  204 
Wine  Sauce  202 


Zucchini  Casserole  225 
Zucchini  Quiche  224 


244 


VIRGINIA  BEACH  UBRARY  SYSTEM 

4100  VI^nbSeacMW,  VifUnla  Hieli.  W  msiAW 


VIRGINIA 
BEACH 
PUBLIC 

LIBRARY 

Zhmer  tU  \rporU 

VmciNIA  BEACH,  VA'y«.%67 


A 


CL 


/iKolNIA  BEACH  ^UBl  i(   JBPARY  E   iTEt.l 

I1 1111  III!  I' IP 


lllillllil'IIIML 
A1323D 


'mill- 


ij  iBii  ^■111  mil 


•%■- 


[^ 


H^te 


ISBN    D-1bSMbM3-l,-a 


9      78096  546A3'I  9 


