Cop\i1glii  N° 

COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


FOOD  AND  NUTRITION 

LABORATORY  MANUAL 

DEPARTMENT  OF  HOUSEHOLD  SCIENCE 
UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS 

Revised  Edition 


ISABEL   BEVIER,  Ph.M. 
SUSANNAH  USHER,  S.B. 


WHITCOMB  &  BARROWS 
BOSTON.  1908 


■^Vt-fi 


l,ieftA8Y  of  C^NiaRESS 


:?>' 


Copyright  1908 

BY 

ISABEL   BEVIER  and   SUSANNAH   USHER 


Composition  and  Electrotyping  by 

THOMAS  TODD 

14  Beacon  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


CONTENTS 

Pack 

Introduction 7 

Protein  Substances 9 

Fats 27 

Carbohydrates     ^;^ 

Milk 45 

Meat      49 

Wheat,  Flour,  Bread 57 

Digestion  of  Starch 60 

Digestion  of  Proteins 62 

Digestion  of  Fat 66 

Appendix      68 

Bibliography     73 


PREFACE   TO    SECOND    EDITION 

In  the  second  edition  of  this  manual  the  general  plan 
and  purpose  of  the  first  edition  have  been  retained.  The 
results  of  later  investigations  have  been  utilized  in  regard 
to  classification  and  methods  of  experimentation. 

The  authors  wish  to  acknowledge  the  valuable  assistance 
rendered  by  Miss  Helen  Isham,  Ph.D.,  in  the  revision  of 
the  experimental  work;  also  their  indebtedness  to  Dr.  H.  S. 
Grindley,  Professor  of  Animal  Chemistry,  and  Mr.  A.  D. 
Emmett,  Research  Assistant  in  Animal  Chemistry  in  the 
University  of  Illinois,  for  valuable  suggestions  about  the 
work  in  meat  and  its  extractives. 

I.  B. 
S.  U. 


LABORATORY   MANUAL 

INTRODUCTION 

TN  the  preparation  of  this  laboratory  guide  the  inten- 
-■-  tion  has  not  been  to  devise  new  and  original  ex- 
periments, but  rather  to  select  from  the  large  body  of 
experiments  now  oiifered  in  physiological  chemistry  those 
which  in  themselves,  or  in  their  applications,  have  a  more 
or  less  direct  bearing  upon  the  principles  governing  the 
selection  and  preparation  of  food. 

The  task  is  a  somewhat  difficult  one,  because  the 
greater  number  of  experiments  given  in  text-books 
of  physiological  chemistry  are  designed  for  students  of 
medicine,  and  therefore  put  the  emphasis  upon  the 
medical  phase  of  the  subject. 

This  manual  is  intended  primarily  for  the  use  of 
students  in  the  Department  of  Household  Science  of  the 
University  of  Illinois.  The  subject-matter  is,  therefore, 
arranged  with  reference  to  the  correlation  of  the  work 
of  this  department  with  that  of  the  pure  science  work 
given  in  the  University.  For  these  students  the  guide 
is  expected  to  serve  two  purposes:  first,  to  aid  the  stu- 
dent to  recall  and  to  arrange  in  an  orderly  way  the 
knowledge  gained  from  other  sources;  second,  to  apply 
this  knowledge,  in  so  far  as  possible,  to  various  kinds 
of  food  problems,  and  so  to  serve  as  an  introduction  to 
individual  work  with  foods  which  follows. 

7 


FOOD   AND   NUTRITION 

PROTEIN    SUBSTANCES 

Among  food  principles  proteins  assume  first  impor- 
tance, whether  we  consider  their  abundance,  the  variety 
of  forms  in  which  they  occur,  their  part  as  tissue  builders, 
or  their  decomposition  products.  Protein  is  an  essential 
constituent  of  the  cell,  and  not  one  of  the  phenomena 
of  life  is  performed  without  its  presence.  Different 
varieties  of  protein  exist  in  both  animal  and  vegetable 
organisms. 

The  complexity  of  protein  substances  is  shown  by 
the  number  of  compounds  obtained  from  them,  and 
their  instability  by  the  ease  with  which  they  are  broken 
up  into  other  compounds.  Neither  the  molecular  struc- 
ture nor  the  chemical  formula  of  protein  is  known.  The 
elements  always  found  in  protein  are  carbon,  hydrogen, 
nitrogen,  and  oxygen.  Many  contain  sulphur,  a  few 
phosphorus  and  iron. 

The  percentage  composition  of  some  of  the  more 
important  members  of  the  group  is  within  the  following 
limits : 

Carbon  51.3-55.0  per  cent 

Hydrogen  6.^-  7.3  percent 

Nitrogen  I5-5-I9-3  percent 

Oxygen  20.8-23.5  percent 

Sulphur  0.3-  2.2  per  cent 

9 


lO  Food  and  Nutrition 

CLASSIFICATION 

Owing  to  the  incompleteness  of  our  knowledge  con- 
cerning protein  substances,  little  uniformity  exists  in 
their  classification.  The  following  scheme  for  classifi- 
cation has  been  recommended  by  the  joint  committees 
of  the  American  Physiological  and  Bio-Chemical  Socie- 
ties on  protein  nomenclature. 

"Recommendations  of  the  Committee  on 

Protein  Nomenclature" 

Proteins 

"Since  ^  chemical  basis  for  the  nomenclature  of  the 
proteins  is  at  present  not  possible,  it  seemed  important 
to  recommend  few  changes  in  the  names  and  definitions 
of  generally  accepted  groups,  even  though  in  many  cases 
these  are  not  wholly  satisfactory.  The  recommendations 
are  as  follows: 

"First.     The  word  proteid  should  be  abandoned. 

"Second.  The  word  protein  should  designate  that 
group  of  substances  which  consists,  so  far  as  at  present 
is  known,  essentially  of  combinations  of  a-aniino-acids 
and  their  derivatives ;  e.  g.,  a-amino-acetic  acid  or  glyco- 
coll,  a-amino-propionic  acid  or  alanine,  phenyl-a-amino 
propionic  acid  or  phenylalanine,  guanidine-amino-valeri- 
anic  acid  or  arginine,  etc.,  and  are  therefore  essentially 
polypeptides. 

"Third.    That  the  following  terms  be  used  to  desig- 
nate the  various  groups  of  proteins'': 
I.     Simple   Proteins. — Protein    substances    which   yield 
only    a-amino     acids    or     their     derivatives    on 
hydrolysis. 


Laboratory  Manual  ii 

(o)  Albumins. — Soluble  in  pure  water  and  coag- 
ulable  by  heat ;  e.  g.,  egg  albumin,  serum  albu- 
min, lactalbumin,  vegetable  albumins. 

(b)  Globulins. — Insoluble  in  pure  water,  but  soluble 
in  neutral  solutions  of  salts  of  strong  bases  with 
strong  acids,  e.  g.,  serum  globulin,  ovoglobulin, 
edestin,  amandin,  and  other  vegetable  globulins. 

(c)  Glutelins. — Proteins  present  in  seeds  of  cereals, 
and  insoluble  in  all  neutral  solvents. 

(d)  Alcohol  soluble  proteins. — Proteins  soluble  in 
70  to  80  per  cent  alcohol,  insoluble  in  water, 
absolute  alcohol,  and  other  neutral  solvents, 
e.  g.,  zein,  gliadin,  hordein. 

(e)  Albuminoids. — Proteins  possessing  a  similar 
structure  to  those  already  mentioned,  but  char- 
acterized by  a  pronounced  insolubility  in  all 
neutral  solvents,  e.  g.,  elastin,  collagen,  keratin. 

(/)  Histones. — Basic  proteins  which  stand  between 
protamines  and  true  proteins,  e.  g.,  globin,  thy- 
mus histone,  scombron,  etc. 
{g)  Protamines.  —  The    simplest    natural    proteins, 
possessing  strong  basic  properties  and  forming 
stable    salts   with    strong   mineral    acids,    e.  g., 
salmin,  sturin,  clupein,  scombrin. 
II.     Conjugated    Proteins. — Substances    which    contain 
the  protein  molecule  united  to  some  other  mole- 
cule or  molecules  otherwise  than  as  a  salt, 
(o)   Nucleoproteins.  —  Compounds  of  one  or  more 
protein  molecules  with  nucleic  acid,  e.  g.,  cyto- 
globulin,  nucleohistone. 


12  Food  and  Nutrition 

(b)  Glycoproteins. — Compounds  of  the  protein 
molecule  with  a  substance  or  substances  con- 
taining a  carbohydrate  group  other  than  a 
nucleic  acid,  e.  g.,  mucine  and  mucoids  ( Osseo- 
mucoid, tendomucoid,  ichthulin,  helicoprotein, 
etc.). 

{c)  Phosphoproteins. — Compounds  of  the  protein 
molecule  with  some,  as  yet  undefined,  phos- 
phorus— containing  substances  other  than  a 
nucleic  acid  or  lecithin,  e.  g.,  caseinogen,  vitellin, 
etc. 

{d)  Haemoglobins. — Compounds  of  the  protein 
molecule  with  haematin,  or  some  similar  sub- 
stance, e.  g.,  haemoglobin,  haemocyanin. 

(e)  Lecithoproteins. — Compounds    of    the    protein 
molecule  with  lecithins,  e.  g,,   lecithans,  phos- 
phatides. 
III.    Derived  Proteins. 

I.  Primary  Protein  Derivatives. — Derivatives  of  the 
protein  molecule  apparently  formed  through  hy- 
drolytic  changes  which  involve  only  slight  alter- 
ation of  the  protein  molecule. 

(a)  Proteans. — Insoluble  products  which  apparently 
result  from  the  incipient  action  of  water,  very 
dilute  acids,  or  enzymes,  e.  g.,  myosan,  edestan. 

{b)  Metaproteins. — Products  of  the  further  action 
of  acids  and  alkalis  whereby  the  molecule  is  so 
far  altered  as  to  form  products  soluble  in  very 
weak  acids  and  alkalis,  but  insoluble  in  neutral 
fluids,  e.  g.,  acid  albuminate,  alkali  albuminate. 


Laboratory  Manual  13 

(c)  Coagulated  proteins. — Insoluble  products  which 

result   from    (i)  the   action   of   heat  on   their 

solutions,  or    (2)  the  action  of  alcohol  on  the 

protein. 

2.     Secondary  Protein  Derivatives. — Products  of  the 

further  hydrolytic  cleavage  of  the  protein  molecule. 

(a)  Proteoses. — Soluble  in  water,  non-coagulable 
by  heat,  and  precipitated  by  saturating  their 
solutions  with  ammonium,  or  zinc  sulphate, 
e.  g.,  protoproteose,  deuteroproteose. 

(b)  Peptones. — Soluble  in  water,  non-coagulable 
by  heat,  but  not  precipitated  by  saturating  their 
solutions  with  ammonium  sulphate,  e.  g.,  anti- 
peptone,  amphopeptone. 

(c)  Peptides. — Definitely  characterized  combina- 
tions of  two  or  more  amino-acids,  the  carhoxyl 
group  of  one  being  united  with  the  amino  group 
of  the  other  with  the  elimination  of  a  molecule 
of  water,  e.  g.,  dipeptides,  tripeptides,  tetrapep- 
tides,  pentapeptides,  etc. 

For  the  purposes  of  this  manual  the  following  scheme 
is  deemed  sufficient : 
I.     Proteins. 

I.     Simple  Proteins. 

(a)  Albumins — egg  albumin,  serum  albumin,  lacta 

albumin,  and  vegetable  albumins. 
(6)   Globulins — serum  globulin,  ovoglobulin,  edes- 

tin,  and  other  vegetable  globulins. 
(c)  Phospho-proteins    (nucleo-albumins) — caseino- 
gen  and  vitellin. 


14  Food  and  Nutrition 

2.     Derived  Proteins. 

(a)  Albuminates — acid  albuminate  and  alkali  albu- 
minate. 

(&)  Proteoses  (or  albumoses)  and  peptones — pro- 
toproteose,  heteroproteose,  and  deuteroproteose ; 
amphopeptone  and  antipeptone. 

(c)  Coagulated  proteins — fibrin,  and  the  products 
of  heat  coagulation,  etc. 

II.  Compound  Proteins. 

Include  compounds  of  simple  proteins  with  other 
bodies ;  for  example,  with  coloring  matter,  haemo- 
globin; with  carbohydrates,  glucoprotein ;  with 
nuclein  or  nucleic  acid,  nucleoprotein. 

III.  Albuminoids. 
Collagen,  elastin,  gelatin. 

For  fuller  information  on  the  subject  of  proteins  the 
following  authors  may  be  consulted :  Hammarsten,  Hawk, 
Jackson,  Long,  Mann,  Salkowski. 

COMPOSITION   OF   PROTEINS 

ExPT.  I.  Burn  a  small  piece  of  dry  albumin  in  a 
test-tube.  Why  does  it  turn  black?  On  continued  heat- 
ing, what  is  left?    Notice  the  characteristic  odor. 

ExPT.  2.  Mix  a  small  amount  of  dry  powdered  tgg 
albumin  with  an  excess  of  soda  lime.  Put  the  mixture 
in  a  dry  test-tube  and  heat  gently.  Test  the  vapors  that 
escape  with  moist  litmus  paper.     What  does  this  show? 

ExPT.  3.  Place  about  5  cc.  of  dilute  NaOH  in  a  test- 
tube   with   a   small   quantity   of  tgg  albumin   and   add 


Laboratory  Manual  15 

two  or  three  drops  of  lead  acetate.  Boil  the  mixture  a 
few  minutes  and  note  the  change.  What  is  the  dark- 
colored  precipitate  ? 

ExPT.  4.  Mix  some  of  the  dry  egg  albumin  with 
double  its  quantity  of  fusion  mixture  (Na2C03  4- 
KNO3).  Place  in  a  crucible  and  heat  cautiously  until 
the  mixture  becomes  colorless.  Dissolve  the  residue  in 
warm  water.  Acidify  one  portion  of  the  solution  with 
HCl  and  add  BaClg.  What  is  the  white  precipitate? 
Write  the  equation.  To  another  portion  add  HNO3  ^^^ 
ammonium  molybdate  solution,  warm  to  35°  C./  and 
shake.    What  is  the  yellow  precipitate? 


GENERAL  REACTIONS  OF  PROTEINS 

Much  has  been  learned  concerning  the  constitution 
of  protein  substances  by  a  study  of  the  decomposition 
products.  This  decomposition  may  be  accomplished  by 
oxidation  or  by  hydrolysis.  The  products  thus  formed 
exhibit  a  great  variety  of  properties  due  to  the  presence 
of  different  radicals  or  groups  of  radicals,  so  no  one 
reaction  is  distinctive  for  all  proteins. 

Among  the  most  important  reactions  used  for  identi- 
fication are  those  which  give  a  distinctive  color  and  those 
obtained  by  precipitation. 

Prepare  a  2  per  cent  solution  of  white  of  egg  as 
follows :  Put  the  white  of  an  egg  in  an  evaporating  dish, 
cut  with  the  scissors,  and  then  dilute  20  cc.  to  i  liter  with 

^  The  Centigrade  scale  is  used  in  all  these  experiments. 


1 6  Food  and  Nutrition 

distilled  water.     Shake  thoroughly  and  filter.     Reserve 
the  solution  for  the  following  tests : 

Color  Reactions 

ExPT.  5.  Biuret  reaction. — To  5  cc.  of  the  albumin 
solution  add  an  equal  value  of  NaOH  or  KOH.  Add 
slowly  dilute  CuSO^  solution.    Notice  color. 

ExPT.  6.  Xanthoproteic  reaction. — To  5  cc.  of  the 
solution  add  an  equal  volume  of  concentrated  HNO3. 
Heat  until  you  obtain  a  yellow  precipitate  or  a  yellow 
solution.  Cool  and  add  an  excess  of  NH4OH.  Note 
change  of  color. 

ExpT.  7.  Millon's  reaction. — To  5  cc.  of  the  solution 
add  a  few  drops  of  Millon's  reagent.    Heat  cautiously. 

ExPT.  8.  Adamkiewicz's  reaction. — To  2  cc.  of  con- 
centrated H2SO4  add  about  4  cc.  (two  volumes)  of 
glacial  acetic  acid  ^  and  shake.  To  the  mixture  add 
one  drop  of  the  undiluted  G.gg  albumin.  The  liquid 
changes,  slowly  on  standing,  more  rapidly  when  slightly 
warmed,  to  a  beautiful  reddish  violet  color.  This  re- 
action is  not  given  by  gelatin.  Why?  To  what  are  the 
preceding  reactions  due? 

Report  the  results  obtained  with  albumin,  globulin, 
proteose,  peptone,  and  gelatin,  in  tabular  form,  with 
the  reagents  you  have  used. 

1  This  color  reaction  is  due  to  the  presence  of  glyoxylic  acid  in  the 
acetic  acid.  The  Hopkins-Cole  test  modifies  the  above  by  using  a 
glyoxylic  acid  solution  in  place  of  the  acetic  acid  prepared  as  follows : 
One  liter  of  a  saturated  solution  of  oxalic  acid  is  reduced  by  60  grams 
of  sodium  amalgam  and  allowed  to  stand  until  the  evolution  of  a  gas 
ceases,  filtered  and  diluted  with  two  to  three  volumes  of  water. 


Laboratory  Manual 


i; 


Albumin. 

Globulin. 

Proteose. 

Peptone. 

Gelatin. 

Water 

Alcohol 

Ether     

Biuret     

Xanthoproteic      .... 

Millon's 

Heat 

HgCl2 

Pb(C2Hs02)2 

AgNOs      

HNO3 

H0SO4 

HCl 

H(C2H302)  strong  .    .    . 

HC2H3O2  +  NaCl  .    .    . 

HC2H3O2  +  KiFe  (Cn)6 

Picric  acid 

Tannin 

(NH4)2S04  (saturated)   . 

MgS04  (j^  saturated)     . 

NaCl  (saturated)      .    .    . 

Dilute  salt  solution      .    . 

1 8  Food  and  Nutrition 

Precipitation 

ExPT.  9.  To  about  3  cc.  of  white  of  egg  solution 
add  excess  of  strong  alcohol.  Does  this  produce  a  pre- 
cipitate?   Does  alcohol  coagulate  proteid? 

ExPT.  10.  Dilute  5  cc.  of  the  albumin  solution  with 
twice  its  bulk  of  o.i  per  cent  H2SO4.  Add  ether  and 
shake  briskly.    Note  the  result. 

ExPT.  II.  To  3  cc.  of  albumin  solution  add  a  drop 
or  two  of  mercuric  chloride.  A  white  precipitate  forms. 
Repeat  experiments  with  lead  acetate  and  silver  nitrate. 

Why  is  white  of  egg  given  in  cases  of  poisoning  with 
metallic  salts? 

ExPT.  12.  Try  the  effect  of  the  following  reagents 
on  egg  albumin,  using  3-5  cc.  of  the  albumin  solution : 

HCl,  HC2H3O2  strong, 

H2SO4,  HC2H3O2  strong  -|-  excess  NaCl, 

HNO3. 

ExPT.  13.  To  about  5  cc.  of  albumin  solution  add 
one  to  two  drops  strong  acetic  acid  and  then  one  to  two 
drops  of  potassium  ferrocyanide.  Does  this  give  a 
precipitate  ? 

ExPT.  14.  Place  20  cc.  of  5  per  cent  egg  albumin 
solution  in  a  beaker.  Add  powdered  (NH4)2S04  to 
saturation,  and  keep  in  a  water-bath  at  about  35°  for 
half  an  hour.  Stir  frequently  until  the  salt  ceases  to 
dissolve.  Note  the  formation  of  a  precipitate.  Filter 
and  test  the  filtrate  with  the  biuret  test  and  the  precip- 
itate with   Millon's   test.      Explain   the   results.     When 


Laboratory  Manual  19 

making  the  biuret  test  in  the  presence  of   (NH4)2S04 
or  MgSO^  add  a  large  excess  of  KOH  in  soHd  form. 

ExPT.  15.  Place  20  cc.  of  5  per  cent  Qgg  albumin 
solution  in  a  beaker  and  add  powdered  MgSO^  to  satura- 
tion; digest  with  frequent  stirring  at  35°  for  about 
half  an  hour.  Observe  formation  of  a  precipitate.  Filter 
and  test  the  filtrate  and  precipitate  as  in  the  above  ex- 
periment, using  the  same  caution  in  making  the  biuret 
test    What  protein  is  present  in  the  filtrate? 

Coagulation  by  Heat 

ExPT.  16.  Place  about  5  cc.  undiluted  tgg  albumin 
in  a  test-tube  with  a  perforated  cork,  through  which 
passes  a  thermometer.  The  bulb  of  the  thermometer 
should  be  immersed  in  the  albumin.  Suspend  the  tube 
in  a  beaker  of  water  and  heat  gradually.  Note  the  tem- 
perature at  which  the  albumin  clouds.  Note  the  temper- 
ature at  which  it  becomes  solid.  The  albumin  is  heated 
more  evenly  if  the  water  is  stirred  during  heating.  Try 
Millon's  and  Xanthoproteic  tests  on  the  coagulated 
protein. 

Heat  and  Reagents 

ExPT.  17.  In  each  of  four  test-tubes  place  5  cc.  of 
the  e.gg  albumin  solution  (1-50).  To  tubes  i  and  2 
add  respectively  i  cc.  and  ^  cc.  of  a  10  per  cent  NaCl 
solution.  To  the  tubes  3  and  4  add  respectively  one 
and  five  drops  of  a  i  per  cent  acetic  acid  solution  ( i  cc. 
of  glacial  acetic  diluted  to  100 cc).  To  a  fifth  tube 
containing  5  cc.  of  egg  albumin  solution  ( i-io)  add  i  cc. 


20  Food  and  Nutrition 

of  lo  per  cent  NaCl  solution.  Immerse  the  five  tubes 
in  a  bath  of  boihng  water  for  about  five  minutes,  then 
examine  and  note  the  results.  Now  add  one  or  two 
drops  of  the  i  per  cent  acetic  acid  to  tubes  i,  2,  5,  and 
to  tube  4  add  i  cc.  of  10  per  cent  NaCl,  and  heat  again. 
What  is  the  result? 

Globulin 

See  Meat 

See  Flour 
ExPT.  18.  Extract  20  grams  of  crushed  hemp  seed 
with  100  cc.  of  5  per  cent  solution  of  NaCl  for  one-half 
hour  at  60°  C.  Filter  while  hot  through  a  paper  moist- 
ened with  5  per  cent  NaCl  solution,  and  allow  the  filtrate 
to  cool  slowly.  Upon  cooling,  the  globulin  separates  out 
in  crystalline  form. 

(a)  Try  two  color  reactions  and  two  precipitation 
tests  on  portions  of  the  filtrate. 

(b)  Test  the  coagulability  of  the  filtrate. 

(c)  Pour  some  of  the  solution  drop  by  drop  into  a 
beaker  of  water. 

Phospho-Proteins  (  Nucleo-Albumin ) 
For   separation  of  casein   from  milk   see  pages   45, 

46,  47- 

ExPT.  19.     (a)  Apply  the  Millon  and  the  Xanthopro- 
teic tests  to  powdered  casein. 

(b)  Try  its  solubility  in  water  and  in  a  weak  NaaCOg 
solution. 

(c)  Test    some    of   the   casein    for    phosphorus    as 
follows : 


Laboratory  Manual  21 

Grind  about  0.2  gram  of  the  casein  with  four  times 
its  volume  of  a  mixture  made  up  of  equal  parts  of 
NagCOg  and  KNO3,  and  fuse  until  the  evolution  of  gas 
has  ceased.  Cool,  dissolve  in  a  small  amount  of  warm 
water,  acidify  with  HNO3,  and  add  5  cc.  of  ammonium 
molybdate  solution  and  shake  vigorously  for  five  minutes. 
Precipitation  will  take  place  more  rapidly  from  warm 
solutions,  but  care  must  be  taken  not  to  heat  above  70°  C. 
or  M0O3  may  be  precipitated. 


DERIVED    PROTEINS 
Albuminates 

ExPT.  20.  Acid  Albuminate. — Dilute  white  of  tgg 
with  about  four  volumes  of  water.  To  25  cc.  of  the 
solution  add  5  cc.  of  two-tenths  per  cent  HCl  and  warm 
on  the  water-bath  for  two  hours  at  about  45°.  Filter 
and  neutralize  the  filtrate  with  dilute  NaOH  solution, 
being  careful  not  to  get  enough  to  redissolve  the  precipi- 
tate. Dissolve  some  of  the  precipitate  in  a  little  water 
to  which  dilute  HCl  has  been  added.  Boil  some  of  this 
solution.  Does  it  coagulate?  Add  some  NaCl.  Does 
this  cause  precipitation  ? 

ExPT.  21.  Alkali  Albuminate.  —  Put  the  white  of  an 
tgg  in  an  evaporating  dish  and  add  concentrated  KOH, 
drop  by  drop,  with  constant  stirring.  The  mass  will 
gradually  assume  the  consistency  of  jelly.  An  excess  of 
KOH  dissolves  the  jelly.  Cut  the  jelly  in  pieces  and 
wash  on  a  cloth  with  water.  Dissolve  some  of  the  jelly 
in  water   (sufficient  alkali  is  present  to  make  a  weak 


22  Food  and  Nutrition 

alkaline  solution)  by  means  of  gentle  heat.  Cool  and 
neutralize  with  dilute  HCl.  Does  the  alkali  albuminate 
precipitate  ? 

Proteoses 

Proteoses  and  peptones  may  be  prepared  from  com- 
mercial peptones  such  as  Witte's. 

ExPT.  22.  Prepare  a  20  per  cent  solution  of  the  pep- 
tone. Heat  sufficiently  to  make  the  solution  complete. 
Put  some  of  this  solution  in  a  test-tube  and  heat  to  boil- 
ing.   Does  it  coagulate? 

ExPT,  23.  To  10  cc.  of  the  solution  in  an  evaporating 
dish  add  10  cc.  of  saturated  (NH4)2S04  solution.  Does 
a  precipitate  form?  Add  about  8  grams  of  powdered 
(NH4)2S04,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  water-bath  at  about 
25°-32°  for  one-half  hour.  Notice  the  sticky  precipitate 
that  adheres  to  the  rod  and  to  the  sides  of  the  beaker. 
Transfer  the  precipitate  to  a  filter  and  wash  with  about 
10  cc.  of  saturated  (NH4)2S04  solution. 

By  means  of  a  glass  rod  gather  up  the  sticky  proteose 
precipitate  and  transfer  it  to  about  20  cc.  of  water  in  a 
test-tube.  While  stirring,  heat  the  liquid  carefully,  and 
the  proteose  dissolves  completely. 

With  this  aqueous  solution  of  proteose  make  the 
following  tests,  employing  small  quantities  of  the  liquid : 

(a)  Biuret  test. 

(6)  Precipitation  with  HNO3. 

{c)   Picric  acid. 

{d)  Acetic  acid  and  potassium  ferrocyanide. 


Laboratory  Manual  23 

Peptones 

ExPT.  24.  To  some  of  the  filtrate  from  Experiment  23 
add  excess  of  solid  KOH  and  try  the  biuret  test. 

For  the  preparation  of  peptone  and  further  tests  see 
pages  63,  64,  71,  72. 

COMPOUND    PROTEINS 

Glucoproteins 

ExPT.  25.  Mucin. — Obtain  saliva  by  chewing  some 
paraffin  to  start  the  flow  of  the  secretion.  Filter  the 
saliva  and  use  it  in  the  following  experiments. 

ExPT.  26.  Add  60  cc.  of  saliva  to  200  cc.  of  95  per 
cent  alcohol.  Filter  off  the  precipitated  mucin  and  make 
the  following  tests : 

(o)  Try  some  color-reactions  for  proteins. 

(&)  Dissolve  some  of  the  precipitate  in  weak  NaOH 
and  then  add  dilute  acetic  acid,  drop  by  drop.  Note 
results. 

(r)  Boil  the  remaining  precipitate  in  25  cc.  of  10 
per  cent  (by  volume)  HCl  for  two  to  four  hours.  The 
result  is  much  more  satisfactory  if  a  condenser  is  used 
to  prevent  evaporation.  Cool  and  render  the  solution 
alkaline  with  concentrated  KOH ;  filter,  and  then  test  for 
reducing  substance  by  Fehling's  solution.  Let  the  solu- 
tion stand,  as  the  reduction  may  not  be  evident  at  first. 

Nucleo-Proteins 
In  recent  years  much  interest  has  been  shown  in  this 
group  of  the  compound  proteins,  partly  because  of  their 
relation  to  the  purin  bodies. 


24  Food  and  Nutrition 

Nucleo-proteins  consist  of  protein  and  nucleic  acid 
or  nuclein.  They  are  widely  distributed  in  the  animal 
body,  and  while  they  occur  chiefly  in  cell  nuclei  they  are 
also  found  in  the  protoplasm. 

Particular  importance  attaches  to  their  decomposition 
products.  On  digestion  with  pepsin  hydrochloric  the 
more  complex  nucleo-proteins  are  split  into  protein  sub- 
stance and  a  simpler  nucleo-protein  rich  in  phosphorus, 
known  as  nuclein.  On  further  decomposition  this  nuclein 
yields  nucleic  acid,  which  serves  to  distinguish  this  group 
from  phospho-proteins  or  nucleo-albumins. 

On  hydrolysis  they  yield  three  types  of  decomposition 
products : 

1.  Purin  bases — xanthin,  guanin,  hypoxanthin. 

2.  Pyrimidin  derivatives — mucin,  thymin. 

3.  A  carbohydrate  group. 

As  purin  bases  upon  oxidation  yield  uric  acid,  the 
importance  of  nucleo-proteins  is  readily  understood. 

Nucleo-protein  may  be  prepared  in  the  laboratory 
from  the  pancreas.    See  page  70. 

ALBUMINOIDS 

Gelatin 

ExPT.  27.  Use  a  2  per  cent  solution  of  commercial 
gelatin,  or  prepare  gelatin  from  tendon. 

Try  the  following  tests : 

(o)  Three  color  tests. 

{h)  Behavior  with  H2SO4,  alcohol,  tannic  acid,  and 
AgN03. 


Laboratory  Manual  25 

ExPT.  2^.  Procure  a  tendon,  cut  it  into  small  pieces, 
and  to  10  grams  add  200  cc.  of  distilled  water  and  3  cc. 
of  dilute  acetic  acid.  Boil  one-half  hour,  strain  through 
cheese  cloth,  and  evaporate  it  on  the  water-bath  to  15  cc. 
Transfer  it  to  a  warm  test-tube,  insert  a  thermometer, 
and  note  the  temperature  at  which  the  gelatin  solidifies. 

Decomposition  of  Proteins 

In  studying  the  constitution  of  protein  substances 
they  have  been  separated  into  simpler  compounds.  These 
compounds  are  known  as  dissociation  or  decomposition 
products.  Through  the  work  of  E.  Fischer  and  his 
associates,  many  of  these  products  have  been  obtained. 
Mann  groups  them  as  follows : 

(a)  Open-chain  amino-acids ;  (/?)  ring  compounds; 
(c)  ammonia;  {d)  thio-amino  acids.  Leucin,  glycocoll, 
and  tyrosin  are  all  members  of  the  first  group,  and  at 
the  same  time  the  best  known  of  all  the  dissociation 
products.  Leucin  was  the  first  of  these  products  to  be 
discovered. 

For  the  preparation  of  tyrosin  and  leucin  see  Diges- 
tion, page  64. 

Questions 

1.  Name  the  forms  of  protein  that  you  have  obtained 
in  the  laboratory. 

2.  Name  some  common  food  in  which  each  may  be 
found. 

3.  What  protein  substances  would  you  expect  to 
find  in  the  following:  raw  custard,  cooked  custard,  con- 
somme, beef  tea  ? 


26  Food  and  Nutrition 

4.  Have  you  been  able  to  deduce  any  principles 
concerning  the  cooking  of  foods  rich  in  proteins? 

5.  Distinguish  between  precipitation  and  coagulation. 

6.  Give  some  commercial  use  of  the  coagulation  of 
proteins. 

7.  In  what  forms  may  protein  be  precipitated? 

8.  Explain  the  use  of  fractional  coagulation. 

9.  Why  is  tannin  used  in  curing  hides? 

10.  Why  is  white  of  ^gg  given  in  cases  of  lead 
poisoning?  Explain  the  use  of  white  of  ^gg  in  the 
clearing  of  soups. 

11.  Is  there  any  reason  why  vinegar  should  be  used 
in  the  preparation  of  tough  meat? 

12.  How  is  the  setting  of  gelatin  explained? 

13.  How  is  this  power  lost  or  destroyed? 

14.  What  is  the  chief  use  of  gelatin  in  the  household? 

15.  How  does  it  rank  among  food  materials? 


FATS 

Chemically  considered  the  fats  are  glycerides  of  the 
fatty  acids.  They  are  widely  distributed  in  nature  in 
both  plants  and  animals.  When  used  as  food  they  be- 
come an  important  source  of  energy  for  the  body,  as  they 
are  rich  in  carbon. 

References:  Hammarsten,  Allen,  Sherman,  Thorpe,  Leff- 
mann  and  Beam. 

ExPT.  29.  Compare  some  of  the  common  fats,  such 
as  tallow,  lard,  and  butter,  with  respect  to  their  color, 
odor,  and  taste. 

ExPT.  30.  Place  a  drop  of  fat  on  a  piece  of  paper. 
Do  the  same  with  a  drop  of  ethereal  oil  and  compare  the 
results  upon  standing. 

ExpT.  31.  Test  a  small  portion  of  rancid  fat  by  dis- 
solving in  alcohol  and  adding  a  solution  of  neutral  litmus 
or  red  rosalic  acid.    To  what  is  the  rancid  odor  due  ? 

ExPT.  32.  Test  the  solubility  of  fats  in  water,  alcohol, 
ether,  and  chloroform. 

ExPT.  33.  Shake  a  drop  of  neutral  olive  oil  with 
about  5  cc.  of  water  in  a  test-tube.  Repeat,  using  a  very 
dilute  NagCOg  solution,  a  soap  solution,  and  a  dilute 
albumin  solution,  in  place  of  the  water.  Compare  the 
permanency  of  the  emulsions  so  formed.  What  is  an 
emulsion  ? 

ExPT.  34.  Saponification.  —  Dissolve  15  grams  of 
KOH  in  10  cc.  water,  add  to  the  solution  100  cc.  of  90 

27 


28  Food  and  Nutrition 

per  cent  alcohol,  and  heat  on  the  water-bath.  Add  to 
this  solution  50  grams  of  lard  which  has  been  dissolved 
by  warming  in  an  equal  volume  of  alcohol.  Saponifica- 
tion takes  place  readily  on  mixing  the  solutions,  and  is 
complete  when  a  drop  of  the  solution  dissolves  completely 
in  water,  leaving  no  fat  globules  suspended.  The  fatty 
acid  may  be  obtained  from  this  alcoholic  soap  solution 
by  bringing  to  acid  reaction  with  dilute  HoSO^  and  cool- 
ing, when  the  fatty  acid  comes  to  the  top  and  solidifies 
as  a  cake,  which  may  be  further  purified  by  melting  in 
hot  water,  and  after  vigorous  stirring  cooling  to  the 
solidification  temperature  again. 

Save  the  alcoholic  solution  for  the  preparation  of 
glycerol. 

Soap  from  Fatty  Acid  and  NaoCOo 

ExPT.  35.  Melt  a  small  amount  of  the  acids  prepared 
from  lard  in  a  beaker  on  the  water-bath.  Add  grad- 
ually, with  constant  stirring,  a  half-saturated  NaoCOg 
solution  until  all  the  fatty  acid  has  dissolved.  This  may 
take  some  time ;  an  excess  of  NaXOa  should  be  avoided. 
After  solution  has  been  accomplished  pour  a  small  por- 
tion into  a  test-tube  and  add  an  equal  volume  of  cold 
water.  A  jelly  will  form.  Immerse  another  portion  in 
a  dish  of  cold  water.  Soap  is  precipitated  from  solution. 
Allow  the  rest  to  stand  and  cool  slowly. 

Separation  of  Glycerol 

ExPT.  36.  Filter  the  solution  remaining  after  pre- 
cipitation of  the  fatty  acids  and  make  it  nearly  neutral 


Laboratory  Manual  29 

with  NaOH  solution,  and  then  neutrahze  with  NagCOg 
solution.  Evaporate  nearly  to  dryness,  first  over  the 
free  flame  and  then  over  the  water-bath.  Mix  the  resi- 
due with  about  50  cc.  of  90  per  cent  alcohol.  Let  this 
solution  stand  for  some  time,  and  then  filter  and  evap- 
orate the  filtrate  on  the  water-bath.  Dissolve  the  residue 
in  absolute  alcohol,  so  that  the  mixture  makes  about 
25  cc.  Add  25  cc.  ether,  shake,  and  let  it  stand  until  the 
next  day.  Filter  and  evaporate  the  filtrate  cautiously 
on  the  water-bath.  The  glycerol  is  obtained  as  a  light 
yellow  sirup.    The  acrolein  test  may  be  tried  as  follows : 

Mix  a  small  amount  of  the  glycerol  with  some 
powdered  potassium  bisulphate  and  heat  the  mixture 
in  a  dry  test-tube.  Notice  the  penetrating  odor.  Test 
the  fumes  with  some  filter  paper  moistened  with  some 
ammoniacal  silver  oxide  solution.  The  paper  turns  black. 
What  does  this  show  ? 

The  ammoniacal  silver  solution  is  prepared  by  adding 
to  5  cc.  of  silver  nitrate  solution  one  half  the  volume  of 
NaOH  solution  and  dissolving  the  precipitation  in 
NH.OH. 

ExPT.  37.  Melting  point  of  fats. — Find  melting 
points  of  butter,  lard,  beef  fat,  and  mutton  tallow  accord- 
ing to  the  method  used  in  work  on  food  analysis  or  in 
"Principles  and  Practice  of  Agricultural  Analysis" 
(Wiley).  To  what  is  the  difference  in  melting  point 
due? 

Lecithin 

ExPT.  38.  Preparation  of  egg  lecithin. — Separate 
the  yolks  of  two  eggs  from  the  white.     Mix  the  yolks 


30  Food  and  Nutrition 

with  60  cc.  of  ether  and  let  stand  over  night ;  in  the 
morning  add  100  cc.  of  alcohol  and  filter  the  solution. 
Evaporate  the  filtrate  on  the  water-bath.  Dissolve  the 
residue  from  the  filtrate  in  15  cc.  of  ether;  filter,  and 
add  50  cc.  of  acetone  to  the  filtrate  obtained.  Filter  this 
through  a  small  filter  and  save  the  filtrate  for  cholesterin. 
With  the  lecithin  thus  obtained  perform  the  following 
experiments : 

(a)  Add  a  small  piece  of  lecithin  to  water;  shake; 
notice  cloudy  appearance  of  water.  No  true  solution 
takes  place,  but  an  emulsion  is  formed  which  can  be 
filtered  unchanged.  Notice  myelin  forms,  under  micro- 
scope. 

{h)  Tests  for  phosphorus. — Fuse  one-fourth  of  the 
lecithin  with  a  fusion  mixture  in  a  porcelain  crucible. 
When  well  fused  allow  to  cool,  dissolve  in  water,  acidify 
with  nitric  acid,  and  add  ammonium  molybdate.  Heat 
to  50°  and  shake.     Does  a  yellow  precipitate  form? 

(c)  Tests  for  fatty  acid. — Heat  one-third  of  the 
lecithin  with  20  cc.  of  sodium  alcoholate  in  a  flask  for 
one  hour;  evaporate  the  alcohol.  Notice  the  residue. 
It  is  soap.  Dissolve  this  in  water;  boil,  and  notice  the 
formation  of  soap  bubbles.  Make  the  solution  acid  and 
allow  it  to  stand  in  a  warm  closet  over  night.  Fatty 
acids  collect  at  the  surface.  Cool  on  ice  and  the  layer 
of  fatty  acids  may  be  removed. 

{d)  Tests  for  glycerin.  —  Fuse  a  small  portion  of 
the  lecithin  with  some  potassium  bisulphate.  Note  the 
peculiar  irritating  odor  of  acrolein  given  off.  This  shows 
presence  of  glycerin.     Give  the  formula  for  lecithin. 


Laboratory  Manual  31 

(e)  Test  for  nitrogen. — Fuse  some  lecithin  in  a 
test-tube  with  a  piece  of  metalHc  sodium  or  soda  Hme 
the  size  of  a  pea.  Notice  the  smell  of  ammonia  and  test 
with  a  moist  piece  of  red  litmus  paper. 

Cholesterin 

ExPT.  39.  Preparation  of  cholesterin. — Evaporate 
the  acetone  solution  from  which  the  lecithin  has  been 
precipitated  on  the  steam-bath.  Dissolve  the  residue 
in  50  cc.  of  alcoholic  sodium  hydroxide  (10  per  cent) 
and  heat  on  the  steam-bath  in  a  flask  until  all  the  alcohol 
has  evaporated.  Dissolve  the  residue  in  50  cc.  of  water, 
transfer  to  an  evaporating  dish,  add  10  grams  of  sodium 
chloride,  and  again  evaporate  to  complete  dryness.  Grind 
this  residue  fine  in  a  mortar,  dry  at  105°,  and  extract 
with  30  cc.  of  cold  ether.  Filter  the  ether  solution,  and 
crystals  of  cholesterin  remain  after  evaporation  of  the 
ether. 

Reactions  of  cholesterin: 

(a)  Evaporate  with  nitric  acid.  A  yellow  mass  is 
obtained.    Add  ammonia.    What  change  takes  place? 

(b)  Mix  in  the  dry  state  with  strong  sulphuric  acid. 
Add  chloroform.  Note  change.  Does  it  change  further 
on  exposure  to  air  ? 

(c)  Evaporate  with  a  mixture  of  two  volumes  of 
sulphuric  acid  and  one  volume  of  ferric  chloride  solution. 
Is  there  a  change  of  color? 

(d)  Dissolve  in  chloroform  and  observe  crystals 
under  microscope.     Write  the  formula  for  cholesterin. 


32  Food  and  Nutrition 

Questions 

1.  To  what  series  of  fatty  acids  are  the  fats  related? 

2.  Give  an  example  of  an  unsaturated  fatty  acid  and 
a  saturated  fatty  acid. 

3.  How  do  you  distinguish  oils,  fats,  and  waxes  ? 

4.  Why  is  linseed  oil  used  in  paint? 

5.  What  forms  of  fat  have  you  worked  with  in  your 
laboratory  courses? 

6.  Name   some  of  the  ethereal  oils  that  you  have 
used  in  the  laboratory. 

7.  Do   they    all    come    under    one    classification    in 
chemistry  ? 

8.  How  is  renovated  butter  made?  oleomargarine? 

9.  What    change    takes    place    when    fats    become 
rancid  ? 

10.  What  is  the  effect  of  heat  on  fats? 

11.  What  makes  the  fumes  of  hot  fat  irritating? 

12.  What  is  the  effect  of  cold  on  fats? 

13.  What  are  the  qualities  to  be  desired  in  a  fat  used 
for  cooking  purposes  ? 

14.  What  are  the  relative  merits  of  beef  suet,  mutton 
tallow,  lard,  and  olive  oil  for  cooking  purposes  ? 


CARBOHYDRATES 

This  is  a  name  applied  to  a  class  of  compounds  which 
are  especially  abundant  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  While 
protein  bodies  form  the  larger  part  of  the  solids  in 
animal  tissue,  carbohydrates  form  the  chief  part  of  the 
plants,  and  occur  in  the  animal  kingdom  only  in  small 
quantities.  Owing  to  their  wide  distribution,  ease  of 
digestion,  and  relative  cheapness  they  constitute  a  very 
important  source  of  food.  Because  of  their  easy  oxida- 
tion they  are  one  of  the  principal  sources  of  energy  in 
the  animal  body.  Carbohydrates  are  compounds  of 
carbon,  hydrogen,  and  oxygen.  The  statement  frequently 
made  that  the  carbohydrate  molecule  contains  six  atoms 
of  carbon  or  a  multiple  of  six,  and  that  the  H  and  O 
are  in  the  proportion  to  form  water  is  not  true  in  all 
cases.  Example,  Rhamnose  CeH^oOg. 
References:  Hammarsten,  Richter-Smith,  W.  A.  Noyes. 

The  principal  divisions  of  the  carbohydrates  are: 
I.     Monosaccharides  or  Glucoses,  CgHisOg. 
II.     Disaccharides  or  Sucroses,  QaHgoOn. 

III.     Polysaccharides  or  Amyloses,  (C6Hio05)n. 

Monosaccharides  are  further  divided  (see  table), 
according  to  the  number  of  carbon  atoms  they  contain, 
into  trioses,  tetroses,  pentoses,  hexoses,  etc.  Again,  they 
are  classified  according  to  derivation  into  aldehydes  and 
ketones.  Ordinary  glucose  is  an  aldehyde;  ordinary 
fructose  is  a  ketone.  By  oxidation  (see  table)  the  alde- 
hydes yield  acids ;  ordinary  glucose  yields  gluconic  acid, 
and,  on  further  oxidation,  saccharic  acid. 

33 


34 


Food  and  Nutrition 


f4 

1 

.    . 

1 

o    «^      ■     §     i 

1  §8       1  1 

1 
< 

k  1 

ui          m  —         >-i 

o 

I     1 

o    oo     5     A 

i 
< 

1 

o 

u      u          <i1 

1 

o  i  -1 1 1 
i  ^:s  1 1 1 

u    u       o    s    o 

i 

1 

< 

1 

o 
u 

-  i      - 

1    o§    1 

1 

o 

°:  g§  i  1  1 

^  w^  ^  i^  ^ 

U      U          Q      ^      O 

o    o 

O       O             0)       -2        a; 

;^    "^        .-s     ■;=!     .1=! 

ii       w 


Laboratory  Manual 
DIVISIONS    OF   CARBOHYDRATES 


35 


Example. 

Preparation  and  occurrence. 

Monosaccharides 

Trioses  CsHeOg 

Glycerose 

Oxidation  of  glycerin 

Tetroses  C4H8O4 

Erythrose 

Oxidation  of  erythrite  which 
is  found  in  some  plants 

Pentoses  C5H10O5 

Arabinose 

Action  of  acid  on  cherry  gum 

Xylose 

Action  of  acid  on  wood  gum 

Rhamnose  1 

Decomposition  of  various 
glucosides 

Fucose 

Action  of  acid  on  sea  weed 

Hexoses  CeHigOe 

Mannose 

Oxidation  of  mannite  which  is 
found  in  plants 

Dextrose 

Widely  distributed  in  the  veg- 
etable kingdom,  as  in  sweet 
fruits,  honey,  etc. 

Galactose 

Action  of  dilute  acid  on  milk 
sugar 

Levulose 

Found  in  connection  with  dex- 
trose in  vegetable  kingdom 

Sorbinose 

Found  in  the  juice  of  service 
berries 

Heptose  C7H14O7 

Octose  CsHieOg 

Nonose  CgHigOg 

Disaccharides  C12H22O11 

Sucrose 

Widely  distributed  in  nature 

Maltose 

Found  in  germinating  cereals 

Lactose 

Found  in  the  milk  of  animals 

Trisaccharides  C18H32O16 

Raffinose 

In  sugar  beet 

Polysaccharides  (C6Hio05)n 

Pentosans 

Found  in  plants,  wheat  bran 

Cellulose 

In  nature  as  cell  wall  of  plants 

Starch 

Found  in  plants  as  reserve 
material 

Dextrin 

By  heating  starch  to  200-210° 

Glycogen 

Found  in  the  liver 

Inulin 

Found  in  the  roots  of  com- 
positae 

Lichinin 

Found  in  lichens 

Pectin 

Found  in  fruits  and  vege- 
tables 

CeHiaO.;    CH-AHoOs 


36  Food  and  Nutrition 

The  carbohydrates  which  have  the  greatest  physio- 
logical importance  and  are  most  used  for  food  are  either 
hexoses  or  pentoses.  A  list  of  the  more  common  forms, 
with  the  place  of  their  occurrence,  is  in  the  foregoing 
table.  Later,  typical  forms  of  the  different  classes  will 
be  studied. 

ExPT.  40.  Compare  dextrose,  levulose,  cane  sugar, 
lactose,  dextrin,  and  starch  as  follows : 

1.  Solubility  in  cold  water. 

2.  Trommer's  test  and  Fehling's  test. 

3.  Iodine. 

4.  Molisch's  test. 

5.  Fermentation. 

(a)  Solubility. — Take  10  cc.  water,  add  4  grams  of 
the  substance  to  be  examined,  and  shake  thoroughly. 
When  the  substance  is  dissolved  add  4  grams  more,  and 
so  on  until  no  more  dissolves. 

Dilute  the  solutions  already  made  to  2  per  cent  and 
use  them  in  the  following  experiments. 

(b)  Trommer's  test.  —  To  5  cc.  of  the  solution  add 
about  one-half  its  volume  of  KOH  solution.  Shake  and 
add,  drop  by  drop,  a  dilute  solution  of  cupric  sulphate. 
When  a  slight  permanent  precipitate  of  cupric  hydroxide 
appears,  heat  and  notice  if  reduction  takes  place. 

(c)  Fehling's  test.  —  Put  a  small  amount  of  Fehling's 
solution  in  a  test-tube  and  add  four  times  its  volume  of 
water.  Boil,  to  see  that  the  solution  itself  does  not  cause 
precipitate  of  cuprous  oxide.  If  the  precipitate  forms, 
a  new  solution  must  be  prepared.  Add  the  solution  to 
be  tested  a  few  drops  at  a  time  and  boil  after  each  addi- 


Laboratory  Manual  37 

tion.    A  yellowish  or  a  brownish  red  precipitate  shows 
that  reduction  has  taken  place. 

(d)  Iodine. — To  5  cc.  of  each  solution  add  a  drop 
or  two  of  iodine  dissolved  in  potassium  iodide.  Note 
color. 

(e)  Molisch's  test  {Hawk). — "Place  approximately 
5  cc.  of  concentrated  H2SO4  in  a  test-tube.  Incline  the 
tube,  and  slowly  pour  down  the  inner  side  of  it  approxi- 
mately 5  cc.  of  the  sugar  solution  to  which  2  drops  of 
o-naphthol  solution  (about  15  per  cent  alcohoHc  solution) 
has  been  added,  so  that  the  sugar  solution  will  not  mix 
with  the  acid.  A  reddish  violet  zone  is  produced  at  the 
point  of  contact." 

(/)  Fermentation. — Mash  up  a  compressed  yeast 
cake  in  16  cc.  of  water ;  place  i  cc.  of  this  homogeneous 
mixture  in  each  of  six  fermentation  tubes,  then  add  to 
each  fermentation  tube  10  cc.  of  a  5  per  cent  solution 
of  each  of  the  substances  to  be  tested.  Examine  after 
ij^  hours  and  after  24  hours. 

Name  the  products  of  fermentation  obtained  in  the 
above  experiment. 

Glucose  and  Levulose 

Use  a  2  per  cent  solution  of  glucose  unless  otherwise 
indicated. 

ExPT.  41.  Place  some  of  the  dry  glucose  in  a  tube 
and  heat  gently  over  a  flame.  Note  changes.  The 
peculiar  odor  is  that  of  burnt  sugar.  Allow  the  tube  to 
cool,  then  add  water  and  warm  slightly.    Explain  results. 

ExPT,  42.     To  some  dry  glucose  add  cold,  concen- 


38  Food  and  Nutrition 

trated  H2SO4  and  let  stand.  The  liquid  remains  color- 
less, or  at  most  is  light  yellow.  Compare  with  similar 
experiment  under  cane  sugar.  Then  gently  heat  the 
glucose  tube.    What  is  formed? 

ExpT.  43.  To  some  95  per  cent  alcohol  in  a  test-tube 
add  a  few  cc.  of  dextrose  solution.  Compare  with  ex- 
periment under  dextrin. 

ExPT.  44.  Formation  of  osazones  from  dextrose. — 
In  a  test-tube  prepare  a  mixture  of  5  drops  of  phenyl- 
hydrazin,  10  drops  of  glacial  acetic  acid,  and  i  cc.  of 
saturated  salt  solution,  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 
Yellow  phenylglucosazone  crystals  will  appear  on  cool- 
ing. Write  the  equations  for  the  formation  of  the  osa- 
zones.   For  more  exact  experiments  see  Sherman. 

ExPT.  45.  Try  the  effect  of  dry  heat  and  H2SO4  on 
cane  sugar  (see  experiments  under  dextrose). 

ExPT.  46.  Place  50  cc.  of  the  cane  sugar  solution  in 
a  small  beaker,  add  6-8  drops  of  concentrated  HCl,  and 
boil  for  2-3  minutes.    Has  the  cane  sugar  been  inverted? 

ExPT.  47.  Compare  the  sweetening  power  of  cane 
sugar,  dextrose,  and  commercial  glucose. 

Lactose 
For  preparation  of  lactose  see  milk. 

Maltose 

For  formation  of  osazone  see  dextrose. 

ExPT.  48.  Hydrolysis  of  starch  by  maltose. — Make 
a  malt  extract  by  allowing  5  grams  of  malt  to  soak  in 
50  cc.  of  water  for  i>^  to  2  hours  at  room  temperature. 


Laboratory  Manual  39 

This  malt  extract  contains  some  reducing  substances, 
so  in  order  to  prove  the  formation  of  a  reducing  sub- 
stance by  the  action  of  malt  on  starch  it  is  necessary  to 
proceed  as  follows : 

Add  to  one  Erlenmeyer  flask  50  cc.  of  a  5  per  cent 
solution  of  starch  paste  and  about  i  cc.  of  chloroform  and 
mark  A.  To  another  Erlenmeyer  flask  add  50  cc.  of 
water  and  i  cc.  of  chloroform  and  mark  B.  Then  to 
each  add  10  cc.  of  the  malt  extract,  cork,  and  allow  to 
stand  until  the  starch  solution  gives  no  color  reaction 
with  iodine.  This  will  take  two  or  three  days.  Prepare 
two  test-tubes  containing  the  same  amounts  of  Fehling's 
solution  (about  5  cc.  after  dilution)  and  heat  to  boiling. 
To  the  first  add  10  drops  of  the  pure  malt  solution 
(flask  B)  from  a  pipette,  and  to  the  second  the  same 
amount  of  the  reaction  mixture  of  malt  on  starch 
(flask  A).  Compare  the  reducing  powers  of  the  two 
solutions. 


POLYSACCHARIDES 

Starch 

ExPT.  49.  Examine  wheat,  potato,  oat,  and  corn 
starch  under  the  microscope.    Make  drawings. 

ExPT.  50.  Soak  dried  peas  in  water  over  night,  then 
cut  thin  slices  and  examine  under  the  microscope. 

ExPT.  51.  Examine  with  the  microscope  raw,  boiled, 
baked,  and  mashed  potato.  Cut  thin  slices  when  possi- 
ble. Make  drawings  to  represent  the  difference  in 
appearance. 


40  Food  and  Nutrition 

ExPT.  52.  Place  100  cc.  of  water  in  a  beaker  and  boil 
it;  then  add  i  gram  of  powdered  starch  and  continue 
boiling  for  2-3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Reserve 
for  following  experiment. 

ExpT.  53.  To  about  50  cc.  of  the  starch  solution  in 
a  beaker  add  ^  cc.  of  H2SO4,  cover  with  a  watch-glass, 
and  boil  for  15  minutes.  Replace  the  water  that  may 
be  lost  by  evaporation.  Now  place  some  of  the  liquid 
in  a  tube;  render  alkaline  with  sodium  or  potassium 
hydroxide.  Make  Fehling's  test.  If  no  reduction  takes 
place  continue  heating  the  contents  of  the  beaker  for 
another  15  minutes  and  test  as  before.  Has  inversion 
taken  place? 

ExPT.  54.  Spread  one  teaspoonful  of  wheat  starch 
on  a  tin  plate  and  heat  in  the  oven  in  which  a  ther- 
mometer is  suspended.  When  the  oven  temperature 
reaches  200°  take  out  a  small  amount  of  starch  and  test 
with  iodine  on  a  white  plate.  Repeat  the  test  for  each 
rise  of  10°.    How  are  these  changes  explained? 

ExPT.  55.  Gelatinization  of  starch. — Put  i  gram 
of  potato  starch  into  100  cc.  of  water.  Shake  well,  then 
distribute  this  solution  equally  among  ten  test-tubes. 
Put  a  rubber  band  around  these  tubes  and  place  them 
in  a  water-bath.  Heat  gradually  to  55°  C.  Then  remove 
one  tube  and  cool  it  quickly.  Repeat  for  each  rise  of  5°. 
Boil  the  last  tube  over  the  free  flame.  Place  in  test-tube 
rack,  let  stand,  and  compare.  Look  at  a  drop  from  each 
test-tube  under  the  microscope  and  make  drawings. 

This  experiment  may  also  be  tried  using  3  grams  of 
potato  starch  and  100  cc.  water.     In  this  case  there  is 


Laboratory  Manual  41 

sufficient  starch  present  to  form  a  paste  when  it  is  heated 
to  the  proper  temperature. 

ExPT.  56.  Test  for  starch,  substances  in  which  it  is 
Hkely  to  be  found  as  an  adulterant  or  extender. 

Dextrin 

ExPT.  57.    Examine  dextrin  under  the  microscope. 

ExpT.  58.  Add  tannin  to  a  solution  of  dextrin.  Is 
a  precipitate  formed? 

ExPT.  59.  Add  alcohol  to  a  solution  of  dextrin. 
What  happens  ? 

ExPT.  60.  Obtain  dextrin  from  toasted  bread.  Is 
toasted  bread  thoroughly  dextrinized? 

ExPT.  61.  Chop  a  half  pint  of  oysters  as  fine  as 
possible.  To  this  material  add  500  cc.  of  boiling  water 
slightly  acidulated  with  acetic  acid.  Strain  the  liquid 
through  muslin.  This  liquid  contains,  besides  glycogen, 
some  proteins  and  gelatin.  To  remove  the  latter,  first 
concentrate  to  a  small  volume,  then  add  alternately  a 
few  drops  of  HCl  and  of  potassium  mercuric  iodide  till 
a  precipitate  ceases  to  form.  Finally,  filter  off  a  little  of 
the  liquid  and  test  it  with  acid  and  reagent  to  make 
sure  that  all  the  proteins  are  precipitated.  If  this  is  the 
case,  strain  the  liquid  through  muslin,  then  filter  through 
paper,  and  to  the  filtrate  add  two  volumes  of  alcohol  and 
stir  thoroughly.  Allow  the  glycogen  to  settle,  then  filter 
off,  wash  with  dilute  alcohol  (2  parts  alcohol  to  i  part 
water).  Finally  transfer  to  a  beaker,  cover  with  abso- 
lute alcohol,  and  let  stand  an  hour  or  more.  Then  filter 
off  the  glycogen,  fold  the  filter,  and  gently  squeeze  off 


42  Food  and  Nutrition 

excess  of  alcohol ;  finally  press  between  several  layers  of 
filter  paper  till  dry.     Powder,  and  save  for  use  later. 

(o)  To  some  glycogen  in  a  small  beaker  add  20-30  cc. 
of  water  and  warm.  The  glycogen  dissolves,  forming 
an  opalescent  liquid. 

{h)  To  a  portion  of  the  solution  just  obtained  add 
a  few  drops  of  iodine  solution  (in  potassium  iodide). 
A  reddish  brown  color  forms.  Then  heat  the  contents  of 
the  tube.    The  color  disappears,  to  reappear  on  cooling. 

{c)  Boil  another  portion  of  the  glycogen  solution 
with  Fehling's  solution.    Note  the  result. 

{d)  To  some  of  the  glycogen  solution  add  a  few 
drops  of  HCl  and  boil  a  few  minutes.  Then  cool  and 
neutralize,  and  test  a  portion  with  iodine.  Try  Fehling's 
on  another  portion. 

Cellulose 

Hydrolysis  of  Cellulose 
ExPT.  62.  To  one  sheet  filter  paper  add  15  cc.  H2SO4 
(50  per  cent).  To  this  add  gradually  enough  concen- 
trated H2SO4  to  bring  the  filter  paper  into  solution.  If 
this  H2SO4  solution  is  tested  with  iodine  directly,  or  upon 
allowing  a  few  drops  of  water  to  run  onto  it,  but  not 
get  thoroughly  mixed  with  it,  a  blue  starch  iodide  color 
results.  If  the  amylocellulose  solution  is  precipitated  by 
dilution  with  water  (three  times  volume),  then  iodine 
added,  no  color  is  given.  Dilute  to  about  30  cc.  with 
water  and  boil  one  hour.  Make  the  solution  alkaline 
with  potassium  hydroxide  and  test  with  Fehling's 
solution. 


Laboratory  Manual  43 

Pectin 

ExPT.  62,.  Preparation  of  pectase. — Pare  young 
carrots  and  reduce  them  to  a  pulp.  Express  the  juice, 
filter,  and  save  it  to  add  to  the  solution  of  pectin. 

ExPT.  64.  Preparation  of  pectin.  —  Put  the  residue 
from  the  previous  experiment  into  a  beaker,  cover  with 
water,  and  boil  15  minutes.  Filter.  Put  5  cc.  of  the 
solution  into  a  test-tube  and  add  a  few  drops  of  the  liquid 
containing  the  pectase.  Does  the  juice  form  a  jelly? 
How  long  does  it  take  to  form  a  jelly?  Extract  pectin 
from  apples  and  repeat  the  above  experiment.  Does  acid 
interfere  with  the  action  of  pectase  ?  What  is  the  reason 
for  the  non-production  of  jelly  in  the  juice  of  many 
fruits  ? 

Questions 

1.  What  are  the  legitimate  uses  of  commercial 
glucose  in  the  home  ? 

2.  In  what  form  are  the  carbohydrates  of  food 
absorbed  in  the  body? 

3.  Where  and  in  what  forms  do  glucose  and  levulose 
occur  ? 

4.  When  cane  sugar,  lactose,  and  maltose  are  hydro- 
lyzed,  what  monosaccharides  are  obtained? 

5.  What  changes  take  place  in  boiling  sugar  for 
fondant  ? 

6.  What  factors  influence  the  final  temperature  in 
making  fondant? 

7.  Why  is  acid  or  glucose  added  in  making  candy? 

8.  What  is  the  source  of  commercial  lactose  ?  What 
is  its  use? 


44  Food  and  Nutrition 

9.  What  is  the  commercial  use  of  maltose? 

10.  How  is  dextrin  prepared  commercially? 

11.  Do  our  cooking  processes  affect  cellulose? 

12.  Where  is  pectin  found? 

13.  What  transformations  does  pectose  undergo  in 
fruits  ? 

14.  What  transformations  does  pectin  undergo  in 
jelly  making? 

15.  Discuss  the  problems  of  jelly  making. 

16.  What  principles  of  starch  cookery  are  you  able 
to  deduce  from  above  experiments? 

17.  How  would  you  separate  fructose  and  glucose 
from  invert  sugar? 

18.  How  does  the  strength  of  the  acid  influence  the 
rate  of  inversion  of  cane  sugar  ? 

19.  Compare  HCl  and  HC2H3O2  in  this  respect. 


MILK 

References:  Salkowski. 

Blyth  (5th  ed.). 

Sherman. 

Richards  and  Woodman. 

Leffmann  and  Beam. 

Conn.     Yeasts,  Molds,  and  Bacteria  in  the 

Home. 
Farmers'  Bulletin,  No.  74. 
Separation  into  constituents;  use  of  preservatives. 
ExPT.  65.    Examine  a  drop  of  milk  under  the  micro- 
scope.    Sketch  the  different  sized  globules  present  and 
measure  their  diameter. 

ExPT.  66.  Examine  microscopically  a  drop  of  skimmed 
milk.  What  difference  is  observed  between  this  and 
whole  milk? 

ExPT.  67.  Boil  about  25  cc.  of  milk  in  a  small  beaker 
for  5  minutes.  No  coagulation  proper,  but  scum  may 
form.  Remove  the  scum  with  a  spoon  or  spatula  and 
heat  again ;  a  new  scum  forms.  This  formation  of  scum 
will  repeatedly  take  place.  What  is  the  nature  of  this 
scum? 

ExPT.  68.  To  about  10  cc.  of  milk  in  a  test-tube  add 
one  drop  of  dilute  acetic  acid  (i-io),  then  boil.  The 
casein  is  coagulated  and  carries  down  with  it  the  fat. 
The  serum  is  clear. 

45 


46  Food  and  Nutrition 

ExPT.  69.  Place  10  cc.  of  milk  in  each  of  five  test- 
tubes.  To  No.  I  add  >4  cc.  of  very  dilute  HCl  (10  drops 
of  HCl  to  50  cc.  of  water).  To  No.  2  add  )4  cc.  of 
2  per  cent  NaaCOs  solution.  To  No.  3  add  Y^  cc.  of 
saturated  (NH^)  2C2O4  solution  ( 1-20) .  Then  add  to  each 
of  these  three  tubes,  and  also  to  Nos.  4  and  5,  2  drops  of 
rennet  solution,  and  mix.  Heat  the  contents  of  tube 
No.  5  to  boiling.  Then  place  all  the  tubes  in  a  water- 
bath  at  40°  and  examine  every  3-5  minutes  and  explain 
results.  What  can  you  say  of  the  action  of  alkali  on 
rennet  ?  of  acid  ? 

What  is  the  composition  of  coagulum?  What  is  the 
clear  liquid  that  separates  from  the  coagulum  on  stand- 
ing? Why  does  not  tube  No.  3  coagulate?  Continue 
heating  tube  No.  3  at  40°  for  about  one-half  hour,  then 
add  2-3  drops  of  CaClg  solution.  The  liquid  instantly 
solidifies.    Why  ? 

ExPT.  70.  To  some  milk  in  a  test-tube  add  1-2  vol- 
umes of  ether,  close,  and  shake  thoroughly.  Do  the  fat 
globules  dissolve?  Now  add  a  few  drops  of  NaOH  and 
shake  again.  Observe  and  explain  results.  This  re- 
action was  taken  at  one  time  to  indicate  that  the  globules 
were  surrounded  by  an  albuminous  envelope. 

ExPT.  71.  To  some  milk  in  a  test-tube  add  a  few 
drops  of  NaOH  and  heat.    Result? 

ExPT.  y2.  To  about  10  cc.  of  milk  in  a  test-tube  add 
5  grams  of  powdered  MgSO^  and  shake  thoroughly. 
Then  pour  onto  a  filter,  resting  in  a  test-tube,  and  set 
aside  to  filter  over  night.  Boil  the  clear  filtrate.  Result? 
The  casein  is  precipitated  almost  completely  by  MgSO^. 


Laboratory  Manual  47 

ExPT.  73.  To  5  cc.  of  milk  add  4  volumes  (20  cc.) 
of  strong  alcohol;  shake  thoroughly  and  set  aside.  All 
the  proteins  present  are  precipitated. 

ExPT.  74.  Add  50  cc.  of  milk  to  about  125  cc.  of 
water,  mix  well,  and  while  stirring  add  dilute  acetic  acid 
(i-io),  drop  by  drop,  till  the  precipitate  becomes  coarsely 
flocculent  and  ceases  to  increase.  Stir  thoroughly  and 
set  aside  over  night.  Do  not  add  more  acid  than  is 
necessary.  What  does  this  precipitate  contain?  Filter 
off  the  precipitate  and  allow  to  drain  well,  then  fold 
over  half  the  filter  in  the  funnel  and  apply  gentle  pressure 
with  the  fingers  until  no  more  water  can  be  squeezed  out. 

Transfer  the  precipitate  to  a  small,  dry  beaker,  add 
about  30  cc.  of  strong  alcohol,  and  stir  thoroughly  so  as 
to  dehydrate  the  caseinogen.  Then  filter  and  again 
squeeze  the  contents  of  the  filter  as  dry  as  possible. 
Transfer  the  precipitate  to  a  small,  dry  beaker ;  add  about 
50  cc.  of  ether  and  stand  over  night.  Filter,  wash  with 
ether,  and  squeeze  as  dry  as  possible. 

Spread  open  the  filter  on  the  table ;  allow  the  remain- 
ing ether  to  evaporate,  then  powdfer.  The  white,  chalky 
powder  is  caseinogen. 

(a)  The  ether  filtrate  received  in  a  small  beaker  or 
evaporating  dish  and  evaporated  cautiously  on  the  water- 
bath  gives  the  milk-fat. 

(b)  The  aqueous  filtrate  from  the  casein  and  fat 
precipitate  contains  albumin  and  milk  sugar.  Place  it 
in  a  beaker  and  boil  for  15  minutes,  in  order  to  coagu- 
late the  albumin.  Filter,  and  treat  the  filtrate  as  follows : 
Heat  on  a  wire  gauze  over  flame  until  it  becomes  cloudy 


48  '  Food  and  Nutrition 

and  bumps.  If  the  liquid  is  cooled  the  cloudiness  dis- 
appears. Why?  Heat  again  to  boiling  and  filter  hot. 
Concentrate  the  filtrate  on  the  water-bath,  and  if  the 
cloudiness  continues  to  appear  filter  several  times  more. 
When  the  filtrate  is  reduced  to  a  sirupy  consistency, 
set  it  aside  until  the  next  day.  Crystals  of  milk  sugar 
should  separate  on  standing. 

Preservatives 

References:  Leffmann  and  Beam. 
Leach. 
ExPT.  75.    Test  milk  for  (a)  formaldehyde,  {b)  sali- 
cylic acid,  {c)  boric  acid,  {d)  NaaCOg  or  NaHCOg. 

Questions 

1.  What  is  the  problem  for  the  housewife  in  the 
use  of  soda  and  sour  milk? 

2.  Explain  the  curdling  of  milk  soups. 

3.  What  are  the  sources  of  danger  in  ice  cream? 

4.  Explain   the   Babcock   test   used   in   analysis   of 
milk. 

5.  What  is  the  use  of  sucrate  of  lime  in  the  dairy 
industry  ? 

6.  Discuss  alkaline  fermentation  of  milk. 


MEAT 

References:  Mitchell,  C.  A,    Chapters  I,  VIII,  IX,  X. 
Grindley  and  Sprague.     A  Precise  Method 

of    Roasting    Beef.      The    University    of 

Illinois  Studies,  Vol.  II,  No.  4. 
Grindley,  H.  S.     Journal  of  Amer.  Chem. 

Soc,  Vol.  XXVI,  No.  9,  September,  1904. 

(Nitrogenous  constituents.) 
Grindley  and   Emmett.     Journal  of  Amer. 

Chem.    Soc,   Vol.  XXVII,    No.  6,   June, 

1905  ;  Vol.  XXVIII,  No.  I,  January,  1906. 

(Analysis.) 
Emmett  and  Grindley.     The  Chemistry  of 

Flesh. 
Trowbridge    and    Grindley.      Chemistry   of 

Flesh.      Journal    of    Amer.    Chem.    Soc, 

April,  1906. 
Grindley  and  Associates.  Bulletins  Nos.  102, 

141,  162,  193,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture, 

Office  of  Experiment  Stations.     (Cooking 

and  digestion.) 
Mann,  Gustav.     Chemistry  of  the  Proteids. 
Bevier    and    Van    Meter.      Selection    and 

Preparation  of  Food. 
ExPT.  76.     Put  25  grams  of  finely  chopped  meat  in 
75  cc  of  water  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  one  or  two 
hours.     Stir  frequently.     Strain  through  cheese  cloth, 

49 


50  Food  and  Nutrition 

then  filter  through  paper.  Reserve  the  residue  for  the 
next  experiment.  Test  the  reaction  of  the  solution  with 
litmus  paper. 

Slowly  heat  a  portion  of  the  filtrate  in  a  test- 
tube  in  which  a  thermometer  is  placed.  Put  the  test-tube 
in  a  beaker  half  filled  with  water  and  heat  the  beaker 
on  the  wire  gauze.  By  frequent  stirring  of  the  water 
with  a  glass  rod,  on  the  under  end  of  which  is  a  piece 
of  rubber  tubing,  the  even  distribution  of  the  heat  may 
be  accomplished.  Even  at  a  slight  elevation  of  temper- 
ature, usually  at  45°-56°,  coagulation  occurs.  Filter. 
Heat  the  filtrate  again  to  65°  and  observe  results. 
Filter,  Heat  to  75°  and  filter.  Make  two  color  tests 
for  protein  with  the  filtrates.  Boil  some  of  the  original 
filtrate,  filter,  and  divide  into  three  portions. 

Test  one  portion  with  Millon's  reagent;  to  another 
portion  add  i  cc.  of  a  5  per  cent  NaCl  solution  and  5  cc. 
of  a  20  per  cent  tannic  acid  solution,  drop  by  drop. 
Observe  precipitation.  To  another  portion  add  a  few 
crystals  of  NH4NO3  and  10  cc.  of  a  neutral  ammonium 
molybdate  solution.  Heat  to  60°  C.  This  should  pre- 
cipitate the  inorganic  phosphates.^ 

ExPT.  yy.  Digest  the  meat  residue  from  the  previous 
experiment  in  100  cc.  of  a  15  per  cent  NH^Cl  solution 
for  24  hours  in  a  covered  beaker,  then  filter  and  test  the 
filtrate  as  follows: 

(a)  Pour  a  part  of  the  solution  into  a  test-tube  two- 
thirds  full  of  water.  Myosin  forms  as  a  cloudlike 
precipitate. 

iThe  molybdate  solution  should  have  for  every  50  cc,  of  the 
reagent  4  cc.  of  HN03(i.2  sp.  gr.). 


Laboratory  Manual  5 1 

{h)  Heat  some  of  the  solution  in  a  test-tube.  Does 
it  coagulate? 

{c)  Try  two  color  tests.  How  does  this  protein 
differ  from  the  one  obtained  in  the  first  experiment? 
Give  the  names  of  the  proteins  obtained  from  meat. 

ExPT.  78.  Influence  of  cooking  upon  the  composition 
of  meat. 

(a)   Boil  meat  under  known  conditions. 

1.  Examine  cooked  meat.  Repeat  experiments 
under  raw  meat. 

2.  Examine  broths.  Concentrate  some  of  the  broth 
and  make  protein  tests.  Take  200  cc.  of  the  original 
broth,  add  15  cc.  of  a  10  per  cent  HCl  solution.  Evap- 
orate to  25  cc,  filter,  test  for  creatinin  by  Jaffe's  reaction. 

(&)  Roast  meat  under  known  conditions. 

1.  Examine  roasted  meat.  Repeat  experiments 
under  raw  meat. 

2.  Examine  drippings  for  proteins. 

Extractives 

References:  Grindley,  H.   S.,  and  Woods,  H.  S.     Cre- 
atinin.   Jour.  Biol.  Chem.,  Vol.  H,  p.  309. 
Emmett,  A.  D.,  and  Grindley,  H.  S.     Cre- 
atinin.   Jour.  Biol.  Chem.,  Vol.  HI,  p.  491. 
Hammarsten. 
Salkowski. 
ExPT.    79.      Creatin    and    creatinin. — Extract    500 
grams   chopped   beef   with   500   cc.    water   for   half   an 
hour   over   the   water-bath   at   50°.      Strain   as    dry   as 
possible  through  muslin  and  make  a  second  extraction 


52  Food  and  Nutrition 

in  the  same  way,  with  an  equal  amount  of  water  (save 
residue).  Unite  the  two  extracts,  and  after  concentra- 
tion to  about  200  cc.  (test  20  cc.  for  creatinin  by  Jaffe's 
reaction;  also  test  Liebig's  extract  in  the  same  manner) 
acidify  the  solution  with  2  or  3  drops  of  acetic  acid. 
Remove  the  coagulated  proteins  by  filtration,  and  to 
the  filtrate  (this  filtrate  corresponds  to  Liebig's  extract, 
and  the  extract  may  be  used  for  study  instead  of  the 
chopped  meat)  add  basic  lead  acetate,  carefully  avoiding 
any  excess;  the  precipitate  consists  of  phosphates,  chlo- 
rides, sulphates,  etc.  Allow  this  to  settle  and  then  filter. 
Warm  the  filtrate  and  pass  HoS  through  it  to  remove 
the  excess  of  lead.  Filter  hot.  Concentrate  the  clear 
filtrate  on  a  water-bath  to  a  thin  sirup  and  allow  to 
stand  in  a  cool  place.  Crystals  of  creatin  will  deposit. 
Filter  off  the  crystals,  and  wash  them  with  88  per  cent 
alcohol. 

Place  some  of  the  crystals  in  a  small  flask  with 
10  cc.  dilute  H2SO4,  and  heat  for  half  an  hour  on  the 
water-bath,  keeping  the  volume  constant.  While  still 
warm  add  powdered  BaCOg  to  neutralization.  Filter, 
and  evaporate  the  filtrate  to  10  cc.  The  creatin  has  been 
changed  to  creatinin.  Write  the  equation.  Perform  the 
following  tests  with  the  solution: 

(a)  Place  2  drops  of  the  solution  upon  a  watch-glass 
and  add  to  it  a  few  drops  of  an  alcoholic  solution  of 
ZnCl, ;  allow  it  to  stand  and  then  examine  the  crystals 
under  the  microscope. 

{h)  WeyVs  reaction.  —  To  2  cc.  of  the  creatinin 
solution  add  3  drops  of  a  freshly  prepared  dilute  solu- 


Laboratory  Manual  53 

tion  of  sodium  nitroprusside.  Then  add,  drop  by  drop, 
dilute  NaOH.  A  ruby-red  color  is  produced,  which 
quickly  changes  to  yellow.  If  the  solution  is  now  acid- 
ified with  acetic  acid  and  heated,  a  green  color  is 
obtained,  and  upon  continued  boiling  a  precipitate  of 
Prussian  blue  settles  out. 

(c)  Jaife's  reaction. — Treat  5  cc.  of  the  solution 
with  a  saturated  solution  of  picric  acid,  and  make  it 
alkaline  with  i  cc.  of  a  10  per  cent  NaOH.  The  solution 
immediately  becomes  a  deep  red. 

ExPT.  80.  Xanthine  and  hypoxanthine  (Salkowski). 
—  "Dissolve  50  grams  of  meat  extract  in  500  cc.  of  water 
in  a  flask,  and  after  the  addition  of  75-100  cc.  of  nitric 
acid  (1.2  sp.  gr.),  to  destroy  substances  which  hinder 
the  precipitation  of  the  xanthine  bases  by  silver  nitrate, 
heat  on  the  sand-bath  until  the  solution  has  cleared  up, 
which  will  require  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
After  cooling  make  strongly  alkaline  with  ammonia, 
filter  from  the  phosphates  which  separate,  and  add  an 
ammoniacal  solution  of  2.5  grams  of  silver  nitrate  in 
about  100  cc.  of  water.  The  precipitate,  which  consists 
for  the  most  part  of  hypoxanthine  silver,  besides  a  little 
xanthine  silver,  is  then  collected  on  a  filter  and  washed 
a  few  times  with  water. 

"The  separation  of  these  two  xanthine  bases  is  ac- 
complished by  converting  them  into  the  silver  nitrate 
compounds.  These  compounds  conduct  themselves  dif- 
ferently towards  nitric  acid.  The  hypoxanthine  silver 
nitrate  compound  is  very  difficultly  soluble  in  nitric  acid ; 
the  xanthine  silver  nitrate  compound  is  far  more  readily 
soluble.    The  following  is  the  best  method  of  procedure : 


54  Food  and  Nutrition 

"Put  the  still  moist  precipitate  into  a  flask  and  pour 
over  it  a  mixture  of  lOO  cc.  of  nitric  acid  and  lOO  cc. 
of  water;  add  i  gram  of  urea,  heat  just  to  boiling,  and 
let  cool.  The  hypoxanthine  silver  contained  in  the  pre- 
cipitate is  converted  into  hypoxanthine  silver  nitrate, 
which  remains  partly  undissolved  and  partly  goes  into 
solution,  but  separates  out  of  the  solution  again  on  cool- 
ing. The  addition  of  the  urea  is  to  prevent  the  formation 
of  nitrous  acid,  which  might  decompose  the  xanthine 
bases.  Filter  the  hypoxanthine  silver  nitrate  off  after 
a  few  hours,  and  wash  until  the  wash  water  no  longer 
reacts  strongly  acid.  Let  the  filtrate  (without  the  wash 
water)  stand  till  next  day  and  filter  (without  working 
up  the  precipitate,  which  is  a  mixture  of  hypoxanthine 
silver  nitrate  and  xanthine  silver  nitrate).  The  filtrate 
is  used  to  show  the  presence  of  xanthine.  The  hypo- 
xanthine silver  nitrate  is  examined  under  the  microscope 
(fine  needles  frequently  grouped  in  the  form  of  stars). 

"(a)  Pour  upon  a  small  portion  of  the  substance  on 
a  porcelain  crucible  cover  a  few  drops  of  strong  or 
fuming  nitric  acid,  and  evaporate  cautiously  to  dryness 
over  a  small  flame.  A  lemon-yellow  residue  results, 
which  takes  on  an  orange  color  when  moistened,  after 
cooling,  with  caustic  soda  solution.  If  a  drop  of  water 
be  then  added,  a  yellow  solution  results,  and  this  when 
evaporated  again  leaves  an  orange  residue  (distinction 
from  the  murexide  reaction  for  uric  acid). 

"{h)  Pour  upon  a  small  portion  of  the  substance  in 
a  dish  a  httle  pure  nitric  acid  of  the  specific  gravity  1.2, 
and    evaporate    on    the    water-bath    to    dryness.      The 


Laboratory  Manual  55 

residue  is  scarcely  perceptibly  colored.  On  the  addition 
of  caustic  soda  it  becomes  pale  yellow  (distinction  from 
xanthine  and  guanine,  which  under  these  conditions  give 
the  xanthine  reaction).  Hypoxanthine  is  further  dis- 
tinguished by  its  solubility  in  ammonia  and  the  insolu- 
bility of  its  compound  with  silver  nitrate  in  nitric  acid, 
and  also  by  the  crystal  form  of  this  compound. 

"(r)  The  filtrate  from  hypoxanthine  silver  nitrate 
contains  xanthine,  as  previously  stated,  but  only  in  small 
quantity.  Make  it  alkaline  with  ammonia  (or,  in  order 
to  save  ammonia,  neutralize  the  greater  part  of  the  acid 
with  soda  or  lime  and  then  make  alkaline  With  ammonia). 
Xanthine  silver  precipitates  in  brown  or  reddish  flakes. 
These  are  filtered  off,  washed,  suspended  in  water,  some 
drops  of  ammonia  added,  heated,  treated  with  a  few 
drops  of  ammonium  sulphide,  shaken  thoroughly,  filtered 
from  the  silver  sulphide,  and  evaporated  (or  the  precip- 
itate may  also  be  decomposed  with  hydrochloric  acid  and 
xanthine  hydrochloride  obtained  on  evaporation).  Very 
frequently  the  silver  sulphide  passes  through  the  filter; 
we  then  evaporate  to  dryness  and  extract  the  residue 
with  boiling  water.  The  xanthine  thus  obtained  is  usu- 
ally not  quite  pure  and  the  quantity  is  very  small.  It 
suffices,  however,  for  the  xanthine  test  as  wxll  as  for 
the  so-called  Weidel's  reaction. 

"(ff)  Xanthine  test. — Dissolve  the  residue  or  half 
of  it  in  nitric  acid  and  evaporate  cautiously  to  dryness 
on  a  crucible  cover  over  a  small  flame.  A  lemon-yellow 
residue  results,  which  becomes  intensely  red  on  moisten- 
ing with  caustic  soda,  and  on  further  heating  purplish 


56  Food  and  Nutrition 

red.  Add  a  few  drops  of  water  and  warm;  a  yellow 
solution  results,  which  again  gives  a  red  residue  on 
evaporation  (distinction  from  the  murexide  reaction  for 
uric  acid). 

"(^)  The  so-called  WeideVs  reaction. — Dissolve  half 
of  the  xanthine  obtained  in  bromine  water,  warming 
gently,  evaporate  the  solution  on  the  water-bath  to  dry- 
ness, and  invert  the  dish  over  another  which  contains 
some  ammonia.     The  residue  becomes  red." 

Questions 

1.  In  what  ways  is  salt  used  in  the  preparation  of 
meat? 

2.  If  you  wish  rare  roast  beef,  what  should  be  the 
maximum  interior  temperature  of  the  roast? 

3.  What  are  the  factors  in  producing  flavor  in 
preparation  of  meat? 

4.  What  inferences  concerning  making  of  soup  do 
you  draw  from  Dr.  Grindley's  investigations  in  meat? 

5.  Discuss  the  subject  of  basting  of  meats. 

6.  What  protein  substances  are  drawn  out  in  cold 
water  extracts  of  meat? 

7.  Do  the  substances  extracted  by  hot  and  cold 
water  differ  in  character  or  quantity  ?  What  is  the  chief 
loss  in  cooking  meat?  How  is  the  percentage  of  loss 
of  water  influenced  by  method  of  cooking? 

8.  Discuss  in  a  general  way  the  changes  which 
take  place  in  meat  during  cold  storage. 


WHEAT,  FLOUR,  AND    BREAD 

References:  Jago. 
Allen. 

Leffmann  and  Beam. 
Osborne.      The     Proteins    of    the    Wheat 

Kernel. 
Osborne   and   Voorhees.     The   Proteids   of 
the    Wheat    Kernel.      Journal    of    Amer. 
Chem.  Soc,  Vol.  XV,  No.  6. 
Division   of   Chemistry.      Bulletin    No.    13, 

Pt.  9. 
Office    of    Experiment    Stations,    Bulletins 

Nos.  52,  67,  85,  loi,  126,  143,  156. 
South  Dakota  Exp.  Sta.,  Bulletin  No.  82. 
U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  Office  of  Sec- 
retary, Circular  No.  13. 
ExPT.  81.    Examine  wheat  kernel.    Examine  sections 
of  wheat  kernel  under  microscope  and  make  drawings. 
ExPT.  82.     Review  physical  tests  of  flour  which  you 
have  made  with  low  grade  and  high  grade  flours  from 
winter  and  spring  wheat. 

ExPT.  83.  Make  "doughing  tests"  with  three  differ- 
ent kinds  of  flour  as  follows:  Mix  in  an  evaporating 
dish  with  a  glass  rod  or  spatula  45  grams  of  flour  and 
a  measured  quantity  of  water,  enough  to  make  stiff 
dough.  Repeat  the  experiment  with  the  other  flours, 
using  water  enough  to  make  doughs  of  the  same  con- 

57 


58  Food  and  Nutrition 

sistency  as  No.  i.  Observe  the  cubic  centimeters  of 
water  used  in  each  case  and  estimate  the  amount  of 
water  to  "dough"  i  pound  of  each  of  the  flours. 

ExPT.  84.  Preparation  of  gluten. — 45  grams  flour; 
water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  it  stand  one  hour. 
Put  in  cheese  cloth  and  wash  in  stream  of  water.  For 
large  amount  of  flour  (as  i  pound)  better  to  lay  cloth 
over  sieve  and  wash.  The  gluten  remains  on  the  cheese 
cloth.    If  gluten  is  to  be  baked,  put  in  oven  immediately. 

{a)  Treat  a  small  portion  of  this  gluten  with  10  per 
cent  sodium  chloride  solution.  Does  it  dissolve  the 
gluten?  Grind  some  of  the  gluten  in  a  mortar  with 
alcohol  (70  per  cent  by  volume).  Filter.  Observe 
change  in  residue.  Explain  it.  Test  the  filtrate  as  fol- 
lows: To  one  portion  add  distilled  water.  Boil  one 
portion.  Make  biuret  test  on  another  portion.  What 
proteins  have  you  obtained? 

(&)  Test  two  flours  in  the  aleurometer  (see  Allen). 
For  further  work  in  separation  of  proteins  of  wheat 
flour  see  Osborne. 

Questions 

1.  Compare  the  flours  obtained  from  spring  and 
winter  wheats,  giving  characteristics  of  each  kind. 

2.  What  dift'erence  in  manipulation  do  these  flours 
require  in  the  making  of  bread? 

3.  Describe  the  changes  which  the  different  food 
principles  undergo  in  the  making  of  bread. 

4.  Discuss  the  factors  that  produce  sour  bread. 

5.  What  qualities  of  bread  are  affected  by  the  stage 
at  which  fermentation  is  arrested? 


Laboratory  Manual  59 

6.  What  are  the  characteristics  of    a  good  macaroni 
flour? 

7.  Discuss  American  macaroni. 

8.  Describe    the    general    structure    of    the    wheat 
grain. 

9.  From  what  part  of  the  grain  is  the  larger  part 
of  the  flour  obtained  ? 

10.  What  do  you  understand  by  the  term  "aleurone 
layer"? 

11.  Do  "long "and  "short"  process  bread  differ  in 
flavor,  texture,  or  chemical  composition? 

12.  How  can  you  distinguish  gliadin  and  glutenin? 

13.  In  what  way  do  these  substances  influence  the 
bread-making  qualities  of  a  flour? 

14.  Upon  what  do  the  bread-making  qualities  of  a 
flour  depend? 

15.  Upon  what  does  the  nutritive  value  of  a  flour 
depend  ? 


DIGESTION   OF  STARCH 

ExPT.  85.  Prepare  an  iodine  solution.  Make  a 
starch  paste  by  boiling  30  grams  of  starch  in  500  cc. 
of  water.  Boil  until  it  becomes  translucent,  stirring 
thoroughly.  Put  25  cc.  of  this  paste  into  each  of  six 
bottles  and  stand  five  of  them  on  the  water-bath,  to  be 
kept  at  a  temperature  of  40°  C. 

Number  the  bottles  i,  2,  3,  4,  5,  and  6,  respectively. 
Place  No.  5  in  ice  water.  Weigh  out  carefully  i  deci- 
gram of  pepsin  for  No.  i,  i  decigram  of  pancreatin  for 
No.  2,  I  decigram  of  amylopsin  each  for  3  and  5.  Put 
a  small  amount  of  saliva  in  No.  6. 

Put  these  weighed  quantities  of  the  ferments  into 
their  respective  bottles,  and  shake  thoroughly.  Notice 
that  (4)  is  only  for  comparison. 

How  does  the  ferment  in  each  case  affect  the  starch 
mass?  In  which  does  it  liquefy  most?  Take  five  ordi- 
nary test-tubes  and  fill  with  water.  Set  them  in  a  row, 
or  number  with  a  gummed  label.  Drop  one  small  drop 
of  iodine  solution  into  each  by  means  of  a  pipette,  and 
shake  to  mix. 

When  the  enzymes  have  been  at  work  for  five  min- 
utes, take  a  clean  pipette  and  drop  one  drop  of  No.  i 
into  the  first  tube  of  iodine  solution  and  put  one  drop 
of  No.  2  into  second  iodine  tube,  and  so  on  for  each 
tube.  Rinse  the  pipette  each  time.  Then  shake  the 
iodine  solutions.     Test  tube  (6)  every  few  seconds  by 

60 


Laboratory  Manual  6 1 

adding  a  drop  of  solution  from  (6)  to  a  drop  of  iodine 
on  a  white  plate. 

No.  4  will  show  what  pure  starch  and  iodine  will 
give.  How  do  the  others  compare?  In  which  do  you 
find  the  least  change  of  color  of  the  iodine?  Allow  to 
stand  5  minutes  more  and  repeat  the  same,  having  re- 
plenished your  test-tubes  with  iodine  solution.  What 
is  the  effect  of  temperature  as  shown  by  the  ice  water? 

After  you  have  settled  the  question  as  to  which  of 
these  ferments  is  most  active  in  digesting  starch,  test 
the  product  of  digestion  to  determine  what  change  has 
taken  place  in  the  starch.  Compare  the  action  of  saliva 
on  starch  paste  and  raw  starch.    What  do  you  conclude  ? 


DIGESTION    OF   PROTEINS 

ExPT.  86.      Fibrin   may   be   used   in   the    following 
experiments  instead  of  white  of  egg,  also  natural  instead 
of  artificial  gastric  and  pancreatic  juices. 
References:  Howell. 

Hammarsten. 
Salkowski. 

Grindley.     Bulletin  No.  193,  U.  S.  Dept.  of 
Agriculture,  Office  of  Experiment  Stations. 
I.     Make  up  solutions  as  follows: 

1.  Dilute  6  cc.  HCl  (1.19  sp.  gr.)  to  i  liter. 

2.  Add  to  solution  (1)1  gram  pepsin  (or  2  grams). 

3.  Add  to  1,000  cc.  water  i  gram  pepsin. 

4.  Add  to    1,000  cc.    I   per  cent   NagCOg,    i    gram 
pepsin. 

5.  1,000  cc.  I  per  cent  Na2C03  +  2  to  3  grams  pan- 
creatin. 

6.  2  to  3  grams  pancreatin  to  i  liter  solution  ( i ) . 

7.  2    grams    amylopsin   +    1,000  cc.     i    per    cent 
NaoCOg. 

II.     Prepare  test-tubes  or  bottles  as  follows: 
Boil  an  egg  hard  and  put  the  white  through  sieve. 
Use  in  following  experiments: 

(a)  In  tube  (a)  put  >4  gram  white  of  egg  and  20  cc. 
solution  (2). 

(b)  y2  gram   white   of   egg  in   one   piece  +  20 cc. 
solution  (2). 

62 


Laboratory  Manual  63 

(0)^2  gram  white  of  egg  in  20 cc.  solution  (i). 

(d)   Yz  gram  white  of  egg  in  20 cc.  solution  (3). 

(^)   /^  gram  white  of  egg  in  20  cc.  solution  (4). 

(/)  V^  gram  white  of  egg  in  20  cc.  solution  (5)  and 
thymol. 

(^)   y^  gram  white  of  egg  in  20  cc.  solution  (6). 

(K)   Yz  gram  white  of  egg  in  20 cc.  solution  (7). 

(i)   Yz  gram  yolk  of  egg  in  20  cc.  solution  (5). 

(/)  Prepare  a  second  tube  like  (a)  and  put  in  a  cool 
place. 

(^)  Prepare  a  tube  like  (2)  and  add  a  few  shreds 
of  muscle  fiber  washed  until  white. 

(/)  Prepare  a  tube  like  {i)  and  add  washed  muscle 
fiber. 

{m)  Prepare  a  fifth  tube  containing  20  cc.  solu- 
tion (5)  and  add  washed  muscle  fiber. 

Place  tubes  thus  prepared  and  labeled  in  warm  oven 
at  40°  C.  Let  the  materials  digest  for  2  or  3  days  and 
note  carefully  the  results.  At  the  end  of  2  or  3  days 
test  the  contents  of  the  tube  for  the  products  of  digestion. 

Products  of  Protein  Digestion 

(a)  Peptic  digestion. — Dilute  3  cc.  of  concentrated 
HCl  to  500  cc.  with  distilled  water,  and  add  Y  gram 
of  soluble  pepsin.  Add  this  solution  to  the  whites  of 
four  boiled  eggs  rubbed  through  a  sieve.  Allow  to 
stand  in  a  warm  place,  preferably  at  40°  C,  and  not 
above  56°  C,  with  frequent  shaking.  After  four  days 
filter,  and  test  a  small  portion  of  the  solution  for  acid 
albuminates  by  just  neutralizing  with  NaOH;  filter  out 


64  Food  and  Nutrition 

the  acid  albuminate  and  test  the  filtrate  for  proteoses 
and  peptones  with  Millon's  reagent.  Neutralize  the 
main  bulk  of  the  filtrate  with  NaoCOg  and  filter  out  the 
acid  albuminate.  Heat  the  filtrate  to  boiling.  A  pre- 
cipitate here  is  due  to  coagulable  proteins.  Filter  and 
evaporate  the  filtrate  to  200  cc.  on  the  water-bath.  Sat- 
urate the  solution  with  solid  (NH4)2S04  and  filter  out 
the  albumose  precipitated.  The  precipitate  of  the  albu- 
mose  is  complete  only  after  long  standing  of  a  completely 
saturated  solution. 

Make  tests  for  acid  albuminate  in  precipitate  and  for 
peptone  in  filtrate. 

{h)  Pancreatic  digestion  of  egg  white. — Boil  four 
eggs  hard  and  rub  the  whites  through  a  sieve.  Put 
them  in  a  stoppered  flask  with  500  cc.  of  i  per  cent 
NagCOg  solution  containing  2  or  3  grams  of  pancreatin 
(commercial).  Use  a  little  thymol  or  chloroform  to 
prevent  putrefaction.  The  mixture  is  digested  at  40°  C. 
for  about  72  hours,  then  the  content  of  the  flask  is  made 
faintly  acid  with  acetic  acid  and  boiled.  Filter  and 
evaporate  the  filtrate  to  a  thin  sirup.  Set  in  a  cool 
place  until  crystals  of  tyrosin  appear.  Examine  some 
of  the  crystals  under  the  microscope.  Decant  through 
muslin  (reserve  filtrate  for  separation  of  leucin)  and 
wash  with  water.  These  crystals  may  be  used  for  the 
following  experiments.  (If  crystals  of  leucin  have 
separated  also,  heat  material  cautiously  in  a  little  water 
and  filter.    The  leucin  is  dissolved.) 

I.  Put  a  few  crystals  of  tyrosin  in  a  test-tube  with 
a  little  water,  add  a  few  drops  of  Millon's  reagent,  and 


Laboratory  Manual  6$ 

heat  gently.  The  Hquid,  especially  on  standing,  turns 
deep  red. 

2.  Piria's  test  {Hawk). — "Warm  a  little  tyrosin  on 
a  watch-glass  on  a  boiling  water-bath  for  20  minutes 
with  3-5  drops  of  concentrated  H2SO4.  Tyrosin-sul- 
phuric  acid  is  formed  in  the  process.  Now  add  CaCOg 
in  substance  slowly,  with  stirring,  until  the  reaction  of 
the  solution  is  no  longer  acid.  Filter,  concentrate  the 
filtrate,  and  add  to  it  a  few  drops  (avoid  an  excess)  of 
very  dilute  neutral  ferric  chloride.  A  purple  or  violet 
color,  due  to  the  formation  of  the  ferric  salt  of  tyrosin- 
sulphuric  acid,  is  produced.  This  is  one  of  the  most 
satisfactory  tests  for  the  identification  of  tyrosin." 

Leucin.  —  The  solution  decanted  from  the  tyrosin  is 
evaporated  further  on  the  water-bath,  and  on  standing 
crystals  of  leucin  form  on  the  surface.  Examine  under 
the  microscope.  Compare  with  tyrosin.  For  further 
experiments  see  Hawk. 


DIGESTION    OF   FAT 

ExPT.  87.  Digestion  of  fat  (or  action  of  pancreatin 
on  fats). — Free  a  fresh  pancreas  (pig  or  beef)  from  fat. 
Cut  up  with  the  scissors.  Then  grind  a  few  grams  with 
fine  sand  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste.  Add  water  until  it  is 
a  creamy  consistency.  Melt  some  butter  in  a  test-tube 
and  let  curd  settle.  Mix  a  few  grams  with  an  equal 
volume  of  pancreas  paste.  Add  some  chloroform  water 
and  keep  at  a  temperature  of  40°  for  several  hours. 
Then  test  the  reaction  with  rosolic  acid.  It  is  well  to 
know  the  reaction  of  the  mixture  before  it  is  put  in  the 
warm  oven. 

"Litmus-Milk"  test.  —  Into  each  of  two  test-tubes 
introduce  10  cc.  of  milk  and  a  small  amount  of  litmus 
powder.  To  the  contents  of  one  tube  add  3  cc.  of  neutral 
pancreatic  extract,  and  to  the  contents  of  the  other  tube 
add  3  cc.  of  water  or  of  hoiled  neutral  pancreatic  ex- 
tract. Keep  the  tubes  at  40°  C.  and  note  any  changes 
which  may  occur.  What  is  the  result,  and  how  do  you 
explain  it? 

Questions 

1.  In  what  forms  are  the  carbohydrates  of  the  food 
absorbed  in  the  body? 

2.  What  are  the  bad  effects  of  an  excessive  use  of 
sugar  in  the  diet  ? 

3.  What  is  saccharine?    What  is  its  place  in  the  diet? 

66 


Laboratory  Manual  6/ 

4.  Under  what  circumstances  are  sugar  and  starch 
avoided  in  the  diet? 

5.  What  protein  foods  would  you  use  in  the  diet  of 
children  ? 

6.  What  objections  are  urged  against  a  high  protein 
diet?    A  low  protein  diet? 

7.  Name  some  foods  that  yield  purin  bodies. 

8.  What  results   are  likely  to   follow   an  excessive 
use  of  fat  in  the  diet? 

9.  In  what  pathological  condition  is  fat  particularly 
prescribed  ? 

10.  Why  is  cows'  milk  modified  in  infant  feeding? 


APPENDIX 

1.  Constant  temperature  hath  for  gelatinization  of 
starch.  —  Place  about  15  cc.  of  a  i  per  cent  starch  sus- 
pension in  a  test-tube  inserted  in  a  cork,  which  will  serve 
as  a  stopper  to  the  outside  tube  of  an  ordinary  Beekmann 
boiling  point  apparatus.  The  outside  tube  may  then  be 
filled  with  any  desired  liquid  of  constant  boiling  point, 
and  the  inner  tube  suspended  so  as  to  be  in  contact  with 
only  the  vapors  of  the  boiling  bath.  The  vapors  are  con- 
densed and  run  back  into  the  tube  from  a  side  arm 
connected  with  a  condenser.  Samples  of  the  starch  may 
be  removed  from  the  inner  tube  periodically  and  exam- 
ined under  the  microscope.  By  using  baths  of  various 
liquids  boiling  below  100°  C,  the  effect  of  long-continued 
but  low  heat  on  starch  granules  may  be  easily  observed. 

2.  Egg  albumin.  —  Cut  up  with  scissors  the  v/hites 
of  one  dozen  eggs,  turn  these  into  an  equal  volume  of 
saturated  (NH4)2S04,  then  filter  (the  precipitate  is 
globulin).  To  the  filtrate  add  acetic  acid  (10  per  cent) 
until  a  permanent  precipitate  appears,  then  add  i  cc. 
acetic  acid  for  each  100  cc.  of  solution.  Stand  over 
night;  filter.     Dry  the  precipitate  and  powder. 

3.  Globulin.  —  Dissolve  the  globulin  precipitate  by 
adding  water  (the  ammonium  sulphate  in  the  precipitate 
is  sufficient  to  make  a  dilute  salt  solution).  Reprecipi- 
tate  by  adding  about  an  equal  volume  of  alcohol.  Filter, 
dry,  powder. 

68 


Laboratory  Manual  69 

4.  Ovovitellin.  —  Shake  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with 
200  cc.  of  ether  and  add  5  cc.  of  alcohol.  Let  the  pre- 
cipitate settle  and  pour  off  the  ether  solution  as  com- 
pletely as  possible,  then  add  100  cc.  of  a  15  per  cent  NaCl 
solution  to  the  precipitate.  On  shaking,  the  precipitate 
dissolves  in  the  salt  solution,  which  is  somewhat  turbid. 
Put  the  liquid  in  a  separatory  funnel  and  shake  it  with 
an  equal  volume  of  ether.  Separate  the  aqueous  fluid 
from  the  ether  and  let  it  stand  until  the  next  day.  If 
it  is  turbid  shake  it  again  with  ether.  Draw  off  the 
aqueous  fluid  again,  measure  it,  and  pour  into  it  ten 
times  its  volume  of  water.  Let  this  stand  until  next  day 
and  filter.  Wash  with  water  and  then  with  alcohol.  This 
precipitate  is  mixed  with  some  lecithin.  This  may  be 
removed  by  adding  absolute  alcohol  to  the  precipitate 
and  boiling  in  a  flask  on  the  water-bath.  Filter,  wash 
with  alcohol,  then  with  ether,  then  grind  in  a  mortar  and 
dry  in  a  desiccator.  A  fine  yellow  powder  is  different 
from  that  of  the  first  precipitate  (see  "A  Laboratory 
Manual  of  Physiological  Chemistry,"  by  Salkowski, 
1904). 

5.  Ovomucoid. — Add  to  whites  of  six  eggs  four 
times  their  volume  of  water,  shake  thoroughly,  and  pour 
into  twice  the  volume  of  boiling  water  made  very  slightly 
acid  by  acetic  acid.  Boil  briskly  over  free  flame  (granite 
pan)  to  thoroughly  coagulate  albumin  and  globulin. 
Filter  and  evaporate  filtrate  (which  should  give  no  pre- 
cipitate with  mercuric  chloride)  on  water-bath  to  about 
40  cc,  pour  into  100  cc.  absolute  alcohol,  let  stand  until 
precipitate  settles.  Filter,  wash  with  alcohol  and  ether, 
and  dry. 


70  Food  and  Nutrition 

{a)  Hydrolysis  of  ovomucoid. — To  a  small  portion 
of  the  ovomucoid  add  locc.  dilute  HCl  (lo  per  cent) 
and  boil  for  five  minutes,  adding  water  as  necessary. 
Add  KOH  to  neutralize,  and  test  the  resulting  solution 
with  Fehling's  reagent  for  reducing  substances.  If  a 
precipitate  does  not  appear  at  once  allow  the  solution  to 
stand  until  it  becomes  cool.  If  this  method  does  not 
give  satisfactory  proof  of  a  reducing  substance,  long- 
continued  boiling  with  HCl  as  directed  in  the  hydrolysis 
of  mucin  may  be  employed. 

According  to  Salkowski,  nucleo-protein  may  be  ob- 
tained as  follows: 

6.  Free  the  pancreas  from  fat.  Heat  200  grams  of 
finely  chopped  pancreas  to  boiling  with  i  liter  of  water, 
keep  boiling  for  ten  minutes,  filter,  and  add  cautiously 
to  the  filtrate,  while  still  warm,  about  10-15  cc.  of 
30  per  cent  acetic  acid,  until  a  fine,  flocculent  precipitate 
begins  to  settle.  If  the  precipitate  does  not  settle  well 
it  is  advisable  to  heat  again.  Filter,  wash  with  water, 
remove  the  precipitate  from  the  filter,  grind  it  with  50  cc. 
of  absolute  alcohol,  filter,  treat  the  precipitate  with  about 
50  cc.  of  ether,  filter  next  day,  wash  once  with  ether, 
and  grind.  The  presence  of  phosphorus  and  pentose 
may  be  very  easily  shown  in  the  somewhat  impure 
nucleo-protein  thus  obtained. 

{a)  To  detect  the  phosphorus  fuse  a  small  quantity 
with  the  oxidizing  mixture,  and  then  proceed  as  under 
Casein. 

{h)  To  detect  the  pentose  the  phloroglucin  and  the 
orcin  tests  may  be  used. 


Laboratory  Manual  yi 

Phloroglucin  test. — Pour  on  a  very  small  quan- 
tity of  the  substance  in  a  few  cubic  centimeters  of 
hydrochloric  acid,  add  a  little  phloroglucin,  and  heat  to 
boiling — cherry-red  color,  then  turbidity.  Let  cool  some- 
what, shake  with  an  equal  volume  of  amyl  alcohol,  and 
examine  this  with  the  spectroscope — absorption  band  be- 
tween D  and  E. 

Orcin  test.  —  Instead  of  phloroglucin  take  a  few 
orcin  crystals  and  proceed  in  the  same  way — reddish 
blue  color,  then  precipitation  of  a  blue  pigment.  The 
amyl  alcohol  turns  red  and  after  some  time  emerald 
green.  Examine  with  the  spectroscope — absorption  band 
between  C  and  D. 

y.  Separation  of  proteose  and  peptones  according  to 
Hawk. — "Place  50 cc.  of  proteose-peptone  solution  in 
an  evaporating  dish  or  casserole,  and  half  saturate  it  with 
(NH4)2S04  solution,  which  may  be  accomplished  by 
adding  an  equal  volume  of  saturated  {']>[Y{^)^SO^  solu- 
tion. At  this  point  note  the  appearance  of  a  precipitate 
of  the  primary  proteoses  (protoproteose  and  heteropro- 
teose).  Now  heat  the  half-saturated  solution  and  its 
suspended  precipitate  to  boiling,  and  saturate  the  solution 
with  solid  (NH4)2SO^.  At  full  saturation  the  secondary 
proteoses  (deuteroproteoses)  are  precipitated.  The  pep- 
tones remain  in  solution. 

"Proceed  as  follows  with  the  precipitate  of  proteoses: 
Collect  the  sticky  precipitate  on  a  rubber-tipped  stirring 
rod,  or  remove  it  by  means  of  a  watch-glass  to  a  small 
evaporating  dish,  and  dissolve  it  in  a  little  water.  To 
remove  the  (NH4)2SO^,  which  adhered  to  the  precipitate 


72  Food  and  Nutrition 

and  is  now  in  solution,  add  BaCOg,  boil,  and  filter  off 
the  precipitate  of  BaSO^.  Concentrate  the  proteose 
solution  to  a  small  volume  and  make  the  following  tests : 

"(a)  Biuret  test. 

''(b)  Precipitation  by  HNO3. — What  would  a  pre- 
cipitate at  this  point  indicate? 

"(c)  Precipitation  by  trichloracetic  acid. — This  pre- 
cipitate dissolves  on  heating  and  returns  on  cooling. 

"(d)  Precipitation  by  picric  acid. — This  precipitate 
also  disappears  on  heating  and  returns  on  cooling. 

"(e)  Precipitation  by  potassio-mer curie  iodide  and 
HCl. 

"(f)  Coagulation  test. — Boil  a  little  in  a  test-tube. 
Does  it  coagulate? 

"(g)  Acetic  acid  and  potassium  ferrocyanide  test. 

"The  solution  containing  the  peptones  should  be 
cooled  and  filtered,  and  the  (NH4)2S04  in  solution  re- 
moved by  boiling  with  BaCOg.  After  filtering  off  the 
BaS04  precipitate,  concentrate  the  peptone  filtrate  to  a 
small  volume  and  repeat  the  tests  as  given  under  the 
proteose  solution.  In  the  biuret  test  the  solution  should 
be  made  very  strongly  alkaline  with  solid  KOH." 


BIBLIOGRAPHY 

Allen:  Commercial  Organic  Analysis,  Vol.  I  (3d  ed.).  Phila- 
delphia, 1898.  Vol.  II,  Pt.  I  (3d  ed.).  Philadelphia,  1901. 
Vol.  IV  (2d  ed.).     Philadelphia,  1898. 

Beddard^  Hill,  Ed  kins,  and  McCleod:  Practical  Physiology. 
London,  1902. 

BiGELOw:  Fruit  and  Fruit  Products.  United  States  Department 
of  Agriculture,  Bureau  of  Chemistry,  Bulletin  No.  66,  1902. 

Blyth  :  Foods,  Their  Composition  and  Analysis.  New  York, 
1903. 

Conn:  Bacteria,  Yeasts,  and  Molds  in  the  Home.    Boston,  1905. 

Effront:  Enzymes  and  Their  Applications.  Vol.  I,  The  En- 
zymes of  Carbohydrates  (translated  by  Prescott).  New 
York,  1902. 

Green:  Soluble  Ferments  and  Fermentation.     Cambridge,  1901. 

Grindley  :  Nitrogenous  Constituents  of  Flesh.  Journal  American 
Chemical  Society,  Vol.  XXVI,  No.  9,  September,  1904. 

Grindley  and  Emmett:  The  Chemistry  of  Flesh.  Journal 
American  Chemical  Society,  Vol.  XXVH,  No.  6,  June,  1905. 

Grindley  and  Emmett:  The  Influence  of  Cooking  upon  the 
Nutritive  Value  of  Meats.  United  States  Department  of 
Agriculture,  Office  of  Experiment  Stations,  Bulletin  No.  162, 

Grindley  and  Sprague:  A  Precise  Method  of  Roasting  Beef. 

Halliburton:  A  Text-book  of  Physiological  Chemistry.  Lon- 
don and  New  York,  1891. 

Hammarsten:  A  Text-book  of  Physiological  Chemistry.  (4th 
ed.,  translated  by  Mandel.)     New  York,  1904. 

Hawk:  Practical  Physiological  Chemistry.    Philadelphia,  1907. 

Howell:  American  Text-book  of  Physiology,  Vol.  I.  Philadel- 
phia, 1900. 

73 


74  Food  and  Nutrition 

Jackson:  Directions  for  Laboratory  Work  in  Physiological 
Chemistry  (2d  ed.).     New  York,  1903. 

Jagg:  The  Science  and  Art  of  Bread-Making.    London,  1895. 

Lafar:  Technical  Mycology,  Vol.  L  London,  1898.  Vol.  II, 
Pt.  I.     (Translated  by  Salter.)     London,  1903. 

Leach  :  Food  Inspection  and  Analysis.    New  York,  1904. 

Leffmann  and  Beam  :  Food  Analysis.     Philadelphia,  1901. 

Lincoln  and  Walton:  Elementary  Quantitative  Chemical 
Analysis. 

Lippmann:  Chemie  der  Zuckerarten.     Braunschweig,  1905. 

Long:  A  Text-book  of  Physiological  Chemistry.  Philadelphia, 
1905. 

Mann  :  Chemistry  of  the  Proteids.    London,  1906. 

Maquenne:  Les  Sucres.    Paris,  1900. 

Meyer:  Utersuchungen  iiber  die  Starkekorner.    Jena,  1895. 

Mitchell:  Flesh  Foods.    London,  1900. 

NoYES:  A  Text-book  of  Organic  Chemistry.     New  York,  1903. 

Osborne:  Proteids  of  Wheat.  Connecticut  Agricultural  Experi- 
ment Station,  17th  Annual  Report,  Pt.  4. 

Osborne:  The  Proteins  of  the  Wheat  Kernel.  Washington, 
D.  C,  1907. 

Osborne  and  Campbell:  The  Proteids  of  Egg  Yolk.  Journal 
American  Chemical  Society,  Vol.  XXII,  No.  7,  1900. 

Osborne  and  Harris  :  Nitrogen  in  Protein  Bodies.  Journal 
American  Chemical  Society,  Vol.  XXV,  No.  4,  1903. 

Osborne  and  Voorhees:  The  Proteids  of  the  Wheat  Kernel. 
Journal  American  Chemical  Society,  Vol.  XV,  No.  6. 

Salkowski  :  A  Laboratory  Manual  of  Physiological  and  Patho- 
logical Chemistry  (translated  by  Orndorff).  New  Yo-rk, 
1904. 

Schafer  :  A  Text-book  oi  Physiology.    New  York,  1898. 

Sherman:  IMethods  of  Organic  Analysis.    New  York,  1905. 


Laboratory  Manual  ^$ 

Simon:  A  Text-book  of  Physiological  Chemistry.  New  York, 
1901. 

Thorpe:  Outlines  of  Industrial  Chemistry.     New  York,  1907. 

ToLLENs:  Chemie  der  Kohlendydrate,  Band  I.  Breslau,  1888. 
Band  II.     Breslau,  1895. 

Trowbridge  and  Grindley:  Chemistry  of  Flesh.  Journal  Amer- 
ican Chemical  Society,  April,  1906. 

Webster  and  Koch  :  A  Laboratory  Manual  of  Physiological 
Chemistry.     Chicago,  1903. 

Wiley:  Principles  and  Practice  of  Agricultural  Chemistry. 

Wiley  :  Cereals  and  Cereal  Products.  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  Division  of  Chemistry,  Bulletin  No.  13, 
Pt.  9. 

Wiley  and  Bigelow:  Preserved  Meats.  United  States  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture,  Bureau  of  Chemistry,  Bulletin  No.  13, 
Pt.  10,  1902. 

United  States  Department  of  Agriculture,  Office  of  Experiment 
Stations,  Bulletins  Nos.  52,  67,  85,  loi,  126,  143,  and  156; 
Office  of  the  Secretary,  Circulars  Nos.  13  and  17. 


SEP  23   \^^^ 


II 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  485  963  7  '^ 


1 


1 

'  i" 


lliili  illiillllill 
lilPiiliPi 

llllll  liiliiiii 
I 


