Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  tliis  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  in  forming  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http: //books  .google  .com/I 


db,  Google 


I 


>oglc 


db,  Google 


m: 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


FOOD, 
HOME  AND  GARDEN. 


VOL.  1.    NEW  SERIES. 


Prove  tbv  servants,  I  beseech  thBe,  tbm  days,  and  let  theu  give 

DS  PVlfin  TO  KAT  Am)  WATER  TO  DRINK.  *     •     • 

»a  AT  THE  END  OF  TEN  DAYS  TUSIR  COOMTBNANCES  APFBARBD  FAIKBR  AND 
IN  FLESH  THAN  (THOSE  OF)  ALL  THE  CHILDREN  THAT  DID 
EAT  OF  THE  KING'S  HEAT. — DANIEL  i:    12.  IS- 


EDITED    BY     HENRY    S.    CLUBB. 


PHILADELPHIA: 

POBUSHED  BY  TBS 

VEGETARIAN    SOCIETY    OF    AMERICA, 

310  CHESTKDT  STREET. 
1897. 


Digitized  by  Google 


INDEX. 


Abattoir,  Our 
AdTCDtiiti,  Veg«tariu> 

Alkeo,  S.  C. 


Aloa«,  Standlns  Almort 

AltniMc  Spirit,   The 

Ambroala 

Auinul  Uaniire  *  Potato  Scab 

Animal  prodDcts,  The  Eating  of 

Apple  Bloa»m,  From  a  R.  I. 

Apt>IeBloa»nu,ARec:ll(tloti   rotoi 


"         "  Snmmerlng 

"  Toonr    ... 

"         "  Two  Chicago 

Apple    BIOMOm.    Thm    Yean  1 
Apple*,  The  Doctor  and  tbe    ... 

"      Therapeutic  U«cii  of 
Artintu*  (poeti;) 

Artlfidsl  Plant  Foodi,  Modem  K 
AaparaKKS.  The  Vlrtnea  of 
Aithma  Cured  by  Teg.  Diet 
Bad   Temper  and  Meat  Satlog 


Cat,  A  Tegctarfan     ~ 
Cathedral  Oaka,  California  ... 
Character  Molded  by  Food 
ChecK  for  Regeneration  IMi,  i 

"     Irom  Polatoea   ... 
Chemlcall]'  Speaking 


Cblldra,  Watch  Little 
Chrlitlaultr  a  Vegetarlaol^ 
Chnrcblll,  Jane   D.  ... 
Circulation.  Incnaalog  the 
Cocoanat  Factory,  The 
Coloniulioa,  Tegetarlan 


Colored  Youth  CouTCrted,  A 
Common  Sense  Id  Regard  to    Food 
Coufenlon,  A  Butcber-a  ._ 

Control   of  roy  Appetllc,  How  I  Got 

Conilnced,  Thoroughly 

Crippled  Chlldreti'a  R«i,  The  (Keae  f 

Daalel'a    Band,  Growth  of       .- 

Davj*.  Kate  Buffiogton      ... 

De  Leamy,  Rev.  A.  T. 


Banquet,  The  Chicago  Vegetarian 
Barnyard  CODTcntion,  Tbe 
Baths,  Take  Sun 
Beans  a  Tomatoes,  Fresernlng 

BcButlful,  To  Become 

Beauty  Note,  A      

Beef  Tea,   lasiead   of 
Bellamy,  The  Prophecy  of 
Beverages   Best,  Simple 


Bliss, 


I  Used  lo   Kill,  (poetry) 

ly.  My  seven ly.elghlh  (poetry) 

Cora,  An    Apple   Blossom 


Boarders  a  Fallent*  Enjoying  W. 
Book  Noticeg 

Box  of  Family  Supplies,  That 
Branch  Societies,   The 
BrealtrsBl.  An  Early 

Brooklyn,   The  Cause   In 
Brutality,  How  to   AbolUh 
Buddhism  A  Vegetarianism 
Bulb  Bed,  Cover  the 
Batcher   loleniewed,  A 

"     Vegetable 
Cabbage,  Keeping    ... 

"        Vegetarian's  Delight 


a.  Rent  Cure  (picture 


Distant  A  NearTlewsofWelklu  Bluff  (pictures  of]    117.  ta 

Domestic  Economy.  Discussing  ...            ...             ^ 

Domlulon                    ■•              ...  .-              ...              a 

Dyspeptic  Saved,  Another  ...              ...              ...    l( 

England,  Vegetarlaolnn  In  ...              ...              ...      a 

Englewood  Branch,  V.  S.  A.,   The       ...  ...              4 

English,  A.  Force  (portrait  ol)  ...              ...                 66, « 

PactaConceming  Right  Living  ...              ...              ...    iS 

Farm,  A  Vegetarian  ...              ...  ...              ...             16 

PenlllECrs,  Discriminating   Relative  to  ...              ...    14 

Use  Mineral            ...  ...              ...              ; 

"          Vegetable  A  Mineral  .-■            ...            ...    17 

Plgbt  Deplored,  Interest  ' 
First  Veg.  Supper  0nder 


SuOeri 


]  Dls.   (illDslrsted)      76 


Of   1 


iheallng,  Cruelties  of 

"  The  Custom    of 

ih    Meat  Poisoned.  All 
id  a  Inlemperance      ... 

"  Medicine,  Battle  Creek 

*  Mental  Science   ... 

Natural   and    Spiritual 
Pure  and    Simple 
Reforra  Department  W.  C.  T. 
The  Preservation  of 


db,  Google 


Forty   Ytait  Bipcriedcc 
FoTwaid,   Chu-Iea  W.   (pottraJt  of) 
Poakctt,  MlM,  The  DcUh  of 
FmkllD,   BeoJanilD  _ 

FtnU  *  Bread,  HealUiy  on 
"    u   Medhdne     ...  ~ 

"     "     Food  and   Ucdklne 
"    for  Uk  Family 
Pnlts,   NiiU  udTegetablea 
Fry,  Henfy  t,, 
Gctdn.  A   Complete  Frnlt 
Gudenjng,  IntertM  In 

Onat  uid  the  Camel  The,  (poetry) 


Day  In  October  171, 


Gnpei  from  FftnLSavlDg 

GtM  Mill,  A    Family 

OrowjnR  (poetiy) 

GbIH  of  Slaashler,  Be  ftee   from  (poetry) 

BamUloii,Hn.I.  G.iUr.  Frank  (portrait*  oO 

Health  and  I.Dtig  Life  (poetry)  

"         "        Strencth,  Galacd  In 

■■        Bome,   DrbaDa.  III. 

"        Hntnanlty   and  Jnrtlcc 
Water  for 
Beat  and   Cold,  WIlhalatidlnB 


R.  0„   Horaby'B  Oatmeal.  The 
Home,  A  Happy 

-*       Cae,  For 

Horticulture,  ProgreM  In 

VeKMarian 
Hoapltal  of  St.  FiancU  .- 

The  Vegetarian 
■owiait? 
Hreinic  Urtnt: 
tmprored  Diet,  Satlafled  with 
Itinery  PreiKbinK  of  Veg. 
Joy.  An  Bver  loereaaiOK 
Jubilee  In  Bnsland.  The 

-        Vegetarian 
July  Grove  Meeting,  Philadelphia  Vegetarian  S'y 
Kofel'n.  Mid  Camline.  Paper 
Ijingh  Cute,  The 

LearlDg  IndDlgence  Id  Fleah,  BBkcta  ot 
I^entll  Cullnre   In   America    ... 
I,entll>,    EfFPtien 
I^    B*  Kill  Something 
Libraries.  For  Public 
I,lon  and  the  Lamb  Within  and  Without,  The    ... 


HBNDBB  FOR  : 

Day  In   May  1 
Easier  Monday  91.  July  FIcnIc  Dinner  46, 
latloD  in,     June  Day  311,    March  Tea  79, 
Dinner  187,  Waahington'i  Birthday  Dim 
Mercy  (poetry) 
Hethodi.   Inhuman 
Mill  and  Ihe  Still  (poetry) 
"    The  Veg.  Society     ... 
Mllllillioflalre 

Mineral  Manure  f or  Vineyirdi,  Only 
Mlaalon*  Failed,  Wby 
Money  Argument,  The      ... 
Mole  and  the  Beam  The,  (poetry} 
Hotormau'i  KIndneu,    A 
Mulching  Better  than   Hilling 
National   Bilatence,  la  Barbarlam  Hecea 
K.  C,  Seatib  Reeking  In 
New  South  Walt* 

Nourishment,  How  to  Obtain    Proper 
Now  and  When   (poetry) 


t.l*ln« 


Cheap 


ulam.  The 


IpOgic  of  Vegelarl 

lAoglpes,  Bleagnua 

Mayor  M.  A..  Rev.  John  B.  B. 

Meat    and    War.  Butcher'* 

"     Diet.  ReaulUofa 
Hcaleating,  Abhorrence  at 
UettUK-ial    to   the  Citliena  of  the  V.  8. 


Dinner  iss. 
139.  June  Col- 
TbaukaglvluR 


Nut  Cocoa 

"    Culture 
Nutrition,  Air    ... 
Nuts  for   Food 

*■     Grains  and  Fruit      ... 

"    Relatlre  Value  of 
Occult  Force*,  College  of 
Oil,    Linden 

Organliatlou.  Adranlage*  of 
Ortmby,  Prank  K.  (portrait  of) 

Paget,  Lady  (portrait  of)  ...  ...  ...  Si 

Peach  Trees.  Seedling 
Peanut!,  African 

for  Consumpllies 
"        tl.    Fieri!    ... 
Peas  a  Profitable  Crop    ... 
Pecan.  Planting  Ihe 
Peebin,  James  M.,  A.M.,  M.D.       ... 

Person*  Won  Over  ... 

Picnic,  A  Vegetarian 

Picnics,  Vrgetsriau  ... 

Pingrec  Allotment  System,  The    ... 

Pitman,  Sir  Isaac  (portrait  of) 

Positive  and  Firm,  Be 

Practical  Vegetarian*.  A  Family  of 

Principle,  From  Rellglou*      ... 

Principles.  Spreading  Veg. 

ProseculioD  for   Being  Vegetarian  ...      • 

Prunls  Simonl      

Pythagoras.  Family  of 

Questions  lor  Resders  to  Answer    ... 

Raisins       ...  ...  

Ration,  The  Bmergency... 
RECIPES  1 

A  Nice  Lunch  for  a  Day's  Tramp  1B7,  Apple  and 
nana  Salad  79,  Asparagus  Salad  91,  Baked  Beans 
BakedPeanutsi;,  BakingVegeUblesqi.  BectS46,  Bos 
Steamed  Brown  Bread  107,  1S7,  Brown  Breid  14.  Bro 
Bread  Cream  46,  Bnns  1J9,  Celery  Saudwlehea  30, 
Cheese  Straws  139,  Cherry  Layer  Cske  59.  Chestnut  P 
ding  l<iS,  Comblnstion  Mush  91,  Cresm  Pea  Soup 
Currant  Tarta  46,  Custard  111,  Date  a  Apple  Sauce  1 
Dale  Bread  79.  i37.  Date  Sandwiches  1S7.  Doughnuts  1 
Egg  Plant  Balls  139,  Egg  Sandwiches  46,  Fig  Pudding  1 


db,  Google 


172714 


French  Dreniog  31,  PrOKn  Cherrie*  31,  Pniit  Silul  qi, 
Gnbsm  Bread  iB;,  Jumblea  ji.Lnitil  S>Ud  17,  Lnitil 
Slew  S9,  HByoDiiaUe  DtcuIdk  31,  Michigan  Potato  Fie 
■oT,  UlDl  Sauce  31,  Kannrtlnm  Sanditlches  47.  Nut  Cake 
47.  Nil  SandwichC*  79,  iii,Fanalp  CToqiieUa79,  Peacb 
Jelly  171,  Peannl  and  Cbeeae  Saodwlchn  139,  Flneapple 
Ice  46,  Popcorn  Bali*  ij,  Po[aloaa1a  Glue  iD7.Potato 
Salad}!,  Ill,  Poutoaoumra47.  Qnlek  Flannel  Cakes  30, 
RaapberTT  VlDegar  139.  Salad  DreHlng  46,  Savory  Omelel 
46.  Shredded  Carroti  108,  Slaw  47,  Soda  Water  lu.  South- 
ern Rice  Bread  171,  Spinach  Fritteta  107,  Sttewlwrry 
Float  t]».  Strawbeti]'  Shortcake  14. 107,  Sirswbeiry  Soup 
log,  Slrawberrlei  with  Whipped  Cream  141  Strawberry 
Water  14.  Stuffed  Applet  171,  Tapioca  Puddiug  79.  To 
Cook  DaDdellouB  106.  Tonuto  Cream  Soup  ji.  Vegetable 
Fie  14.  Warm  Maple  Sugar  79,  Whoie-nrbeat  Ceipa  30 
Reindeer  ...  ...  ...  ...  ...    181 

Religion    and  Bthia,  Fonndatlon  of        m 

Residence  of  H.  S.  Clubb  (picture  oO  --.  -.    iK 

Review,  The  Vegetarian  ...  ...  ...  85 

Robert  Wright.  In  Memoriam  (portrait  ol)  54.  if 

Byena,  Seeley'a  ...  ...  ...  ...  iBt 

Santa  Catallna  Iiland     ...  ...  ...  ...    lai 

"        Bartwra  Fruit  In  ...  ...  ...  iS? 

Schofleld,  Dr..  on  Pmit  Uaten       .„  ...  ...    i3f 

School  fbt  Girla,  Private  ...  ...  ...  iM 

Science  and  Scrlptnre        ...  ...  3S 

Scott,  John  Walter  (portrait)    ...              ...  ...             1, 2 

Sea  Slckneae  and  Vegctarlaniara       ...  gi 

Seed,  Sowing  the       ...              ...              ...  ...              4; 

Series  of  P..  K.  and  G.,  The  Hew  ...  ...      3; 

"      The  New           ...              ...              ...  ...                , 

Sevenlh^jayAdvenllM'sView,  A      ...  ...              ...    10; 

Sevenlleth  Anulseraary,  Onr  .-              ...  ...            lai 

Shaken,    The    ...              ...              ...  ...              ...      n 

Shelley,  p.  B.  (portrait  oO         —               "  -        97. 9! 

SllIcaRendcredATallablebyAmmoDia  ...            ...    141 

Slaufihter  Houae.  The  CmeltJe*  of  the    ...  ...              3; 

Soap.  Vegetarian               ...              ...  ...              ...    iiH 

Society,  The  Audobon             ...              ...  ...              6f 

Sorley,  The  Death  of  Ptea.               ...  -..              —    lo; 

Soup  ofFmlta            ...              ...              ...  ...             IS] 

Southern  PInea  for  Conaumptlvei   ...  ...             ...     3c 

Snyder.  Atlierl  H.  (portrait  of)  ...              ...  ...               il 

Mr.andMn.  Albert  H.  (portrait  oO".  5",  Si 

Spoit  of  Killing,  The                ...              ...  ...            iM 


Stella,  The  Gypay  Queen  ~ 
Stewart.  Walking      ... 
Stimulation  of  Fieih  Food,  The 
Street  Cara,  Odor*  \o 

Stronger,  Feeling 
Snb»il,  Improvement  of 

Rational  Action  on 

SDggeitioa,  A  Good 

Sammaty  of  Argument!  for  Vegetarianism 

Taste,  A  Refined 

Testimony,  A  Veteran's 


Tolstoi.  C 


aueo 


ito  Croquettes,  How  lo  Hske 
TO  Freaerre  the  Beat  Quality  In  Greens 
Trealmenl  of  Animals,  Kow  Food  AOtcts  onr   ... 
Trial,  After  Eighteen  Month* 
DtiUilng  Apples       ... 
Vacation,  Our    ... 
Vegetables... 

and  Fruits 

"         Baking         ...  

"   ■    Properties  of 
Vegetarian.  A  ForcMer     ... 

"  Colony,  Switaerland 

Cycling  Club  ... 
"  Depot,  A  Hew 

Vegetarianism  ttom  Standpoint  of  Life  Princlplea 

'■  The  Advance  of 

Vegetarian  Society,  Chicago 

"  "        Hlnneapolls 

N.  Y. 

Philadelphia  ».  S7,  i  iS,  i; 

Vegetarians,  Prominent    ... 
Vegetarian  System.  Summary  of  the    ... 

Vital  Food ... 

Wanted  More  (poetry)     ... 

Watercress 

Wax  Grafting    ... 

wedding,  A  Silver     ... 

Weddings.  Vegetarian     ... 

WldowofDr.  Alcotl  at  85,  The 

Wit,  A  Walter  Girl's 

Women's  Vegetarian  UdIob    ... 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


JCTHN   WALTER   5CGTT, 
PttEMDKNT  Off  TttE.   Vkg£t,lriak,  SoGiEXY    UB    Neo;   Yo&e_ 


War, 

d  by  Google 


'y&oo 


ilpood.  Jlom^  apd  (Jardei^ 


Vol..  I,  No.  [.    Nsw  Sebies. 


Whole  NuiiBsit,  7]. 


JOHN  WALTER  SCOTT. 


THE  SUBJECT  of  our  sketch  was  'born 
in  London,  England,  on  tbe  and  of 
November,  1S45,  "^^^  '^  therefore  fifty 
years  of  age. 

He  left  his  hoDK  at  the  age  of  sixteen  to 
seek  a  fortune  in  America,  and  after  five  years 
in  the  gold  fields  of  Montana  and  California, 
settled  down  to  his  present  bnstness  in  New 
York  City. 

About  sixteen  years  ago,  while  stndying 
religions  subjects,  his  attention  was  forcibly 
drawn  to  tiie  conclusion  that  it  was  a  crime 
to  kill  for  any  purpose.  Atthat  time  he  was 
unacquainted  with  any  Vegetarians  or  their 
mode  of  life,  but  like  most  people  was  indued 
with  the  erroneous  notion  that  we  require 
flesh  in  cold  weather.  It  being  then  the 
depth  of  winter  be  concluded  to  await  the 
first  of  May  before  putting  his  faith  in  prac- 
tice. Accordingly  on  the  thirtieth  of  April 
be  tasted  his  last  flesh  and  from  that  day  to 
this  has  not  touched  anything  that  necessitated 
the  sacri6ce  of  life:  fish,  flesh  or  fowl  and 
certainly  at  this  date  no  possible  inducements 
conld  tempt  him  to  commit  such  a  crime  or 
be  the  participant  in  that  of  another. 

He  states  that  he  did  not  feel  the  slightest 
effect  in  his  health  or  strength  on  changing 
from  a  Sesh  to  a  Vegetarian  diet. 

Mr.  Scott  is  a  very  busy  man,  working 
sixteen  hours  a  day,  three  hundred  and  nine 
days  in  the  year. 

To  show  how  little  is  necessary  to  support 
an  active  life,  we  annex  his  menu,  which  is 
practically  unchanged  from  one  year  to  an- 
other. In  feet  he  walks  into  the  restaurant 
«nd  sits  down,  the  meal  being  brought  without 
giving  an  order. 

Breakfast  pt  8  o'clock :  One  orange  or 
other  fruit  in  season  ;  large  saucer  of  oatmeal, 
eaten  with  crettm  and  sugar  1  one  Vienna 
1896 


rollandone  cupof  coffee,  three  qoartera  milk. 
Supper  at  6.30;  Three  poached  eggs  on 
toast;  three  griddle  cakes. 

This  is  not  an  ideal  diet  or  one  that  we 
should  recommend,  as  it  is  entirely  lacking  in 
whole  wheat,  peaR,  and  beans,  but  it  has  the 
advantage  in  being  food  that  can  be  proctired 
at  any  hotel  or  restaurant  in  America  or 
Europe  and  probably  anywhere  in  the  world. 

He  never  eats  or  even  takes  a  glass  of  water 
between  meals. 

His  weight  never  varies  more  than  a  pound 
or  two,  and  stands  at  178  lbs.  He  is  5  ft)  9 
in,  tall.  We  need  scarcely  add  that  he  Is 
never  ill  and  is  a  good  specimen  of  healthy, 
robust  manhood. 

He  is  now  serving  his  fourth  term  as  pres- 
ident of  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  New  York 
and  is  of  course  a  member  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society  of  America,  and  niaty  other  organ- 
isations. 

We  have  great  pleasure  in  giving  a  por- 
trait of  our  friend  in  the  first  number  of 
our  new  series  as  during  the  temporary  sus- 
pension of  Food,  Homs  »  Gakden  he  has 
published  the  Vegetarian,  a  neat  little 
monthly,  which  has  served  a  very  useful  pur- 
pose in  keeping  the  sacred  flame  alive  while 
we  were  laboring  under  the  embarrassment 
incident  to  the  transition  in  providing 
a  Permanent  Printing  snd  Publication 
Establishment  for  the  Vegetarian  Society  of 
America. 

Mr.  Scott  is  a  most  genial,  high  minded 
friend  of  tbe  cause  and  although  /'fe  Vegetarian 
has  met  with  considerabie  success,  he  in- 
forms us  that  it  will  only  be  continued  until 
the  end  of  the  present  volume.  We  shall. 
however,  always  enjoy  his  co-operation  as 
his  Vegetarianism  is  based  on  a  religious 
principle  as  firm  asa  rock. 


d  by  Google 


J 


I  pood.  |1om^  a^d  (jardei? 


THE    NEW    SERIES. 

We  commence,  with  this  nnniber,  a  new 
Beries  of  Food,  Home  and  Gahi>en  as  several 
of  the  old  issaeare  out  of  print  and  we  hope 
in  future  to  supply  all  orders  to  complete 
sets  of  this  Series. 

This  new  issue  commences  under  very  en- 
couraging circumstances.  It  is  printed  on  a 
press  purchased  by  contnbntions  from  various 
friendu  of  the  cause.  It  is  not  as  large  nor  as 
perfect  n  press  as  was  desired  but  was  the 
best  ive  could  procure  with  the  amount  contri- 
buted. It  is  run  1^  an  electric  motor  which 
we  hope  our  friends  will  soon  enable  us  to 
pay  for.  The  office  in  which  the  work  is 
done  is  in  the  east  wing  of  Independence  Hall, 
the  most  renowned  building  in  the  world, 
and  this  number  is.  we  believe,  the  first  spec- 
imen of  printing  ever  done  on  this  historic 
ground.  Tbe  issue  will  be  limited  so  that  as 
a  souvenier  this  number  will  possess  a  histor- 
ic value  far  beyond  the  price  asked  for  it,  and 
in    a  few  years  will  become  a  relic  of  great 

The  rooms  came  into  our  possession  through 
our  connection  with  the  Universa!  Peace 
Union  of  which  we  have  been  a  Vice-President 
sonie  ten  years.  It  was  desired  that  we  should 
take  charge  oi  ths  Petue maker,  the  organ  of 
the  Union,  and  as  the  rooms  in  Independence 
Hall  were  donated  by  the  city  to  the  Univer- 
sal Peace  Union,  the  use  of  one  of  the  rooms 
was  granted  us  for  a  printing  office  in  con- 
sideration of  the  service  rendered.  The  prob- 
ability is  that  the  Peacemaket  will  iilso  be 
printed  in  the  same  office.  It  is  situated  over 
tbe  Editorial  room,  in  which  the  preparation 
for  copy  for  both  pe<  todicatsis  now  carried  on. 

Although  for  business  purposes  tbe  office 
at  310  Chestnut  Street  will  be  continued  by 
the  Secreiary  of  the  Society,  and  all  business 
letters  should  be  so  addressed,  communica- 
tions intended  f>>r  publication  and  fur  the 
President  of  the  V.  S  A.  should  be  addressed 
to  Independence  Hall,  500  Chestnut  Street. 

Theideawith  which  the  Vegetarian  Society 
of  America  was  instituted  wiis  that  it  should 
become  publisher  of  literature  connected  with 
the  Vegetarian  movement  and  that  as  early 
as  possible  a  printing  und  piiMishing  Kstab- 

I 


lishment  shouid  be  instituted  iu  which  books 
.ind  periodicals  conld  be  produced  in  the  most 
economic  manner  and  in  quantities  snited  to 
the  necessities  of  tbe  movement  and  to  de- 
mands of  the  public.  This  has  >iow  bee" 
accomplished,  attbougb  on  a  smaller  .scale 
than  is  desirable,  stilt  it  is  a  beginning 
which  we  trust  by  tbe  co-operation  of  friends 
throughout  the  country  will  become  effective 
for  tbe  purpose.  Our  printing  office  is  not 
yet  complete  for  all  the  purposes  intended. 
We  need  machinery  for  binding  as  well  as  a 
more  complete  assortment  of  printing  mater- 
ial. It  has  taken  tbe  Society  seven  years  to 
accomplish  this  much,  and  .'ihonld  the  country 
enter  upon  a  period  of  financial  prosperity 
as  is  expected  with  the  next  incoming  ad- 
ministration, we  have  reason  to  believe,  that 
within  a  very  reasonable  time  suf&cient  sup- 
port will  be  given  to  tbe  movement  to  furnish 
it  a  respectable  otitfit  for  efficient  work. 

We  do  not  think  that  we  can  produce  with 
our  present  facilities  periodicals  or  books 
much  cheaper  than  before,  but  the  labor  lA 
attending  to  the  work  will  be  lessened  by 
greater  convenience,  each  departmant  being 
under  one  roof. 

The  delay  in  the  publication  has  been 
much  longer  than  anticipated  but  under 
previous  arrangements  it  was  impossible  to 
continue  it  without  serious  financial  disaster, 
so  that  we  concluded  that  it  would  be  better 
to  suspend  publication  for  a  white  until  we 
could  commence  under  more  favorable  con- 
ditions. 

All  our  paid  subscriptions  will  now  be  hon- 
ored, the  period  being  extended  one  year. 

We  know  that  our  friend.*;  have  been  greatly 
disappointed  at  the  delay  of  the  appearance 
of  the  publication,  but  we  trust  no  one  has 
suffered  more  than  we  have. 

We  depire  that  Food,  Home  and  Garden 
shall  be  promoting  the  health,  well  being 
and  happiness  of  every  family  into  which  it 
may  be  received,  and  for  this  purpose  we 
shall  endeavor  to  make  its  teachings  plain. 
simple  and  direct.  To  promote  iis  circula- 
tion we  desire  the  co-operatiou  of  every 
friend  of  the  cause  and  we  shal!  need  it. 
Those  whn  can,  will  we  trust  ^iubscribe  for 
May, 


.vGooqIc 


I  pood,  ^om^  apd  Qardep 


at  least  four  copie§  to  be  sent  Co  as  many 
friends  in  addition  to  their  own  subscription, 
and  as  many  cniinot  afford  this,  we  trufit 
that  those  who  can  do  more,  will  cheerfully 
do  so,  and  tbose  who  cannot  afford  il,  will 
confer  a  favor  by  sending  us  the  ad- 
dresses of  those  they  know  likely  to  becouie 
interested,  and  by  the  hearty  co-operation 
of  all,  the  work  will  move  forward  with 
gradually  increasing  velocity  and  we  hope 
that  the  pre^'ent  centuiy  will  not  close  on 
anything  less  than  a  powerful  and  well  or- 
ganized movement  that  shall  demand  a  truce 
in  regard  to  the  shocking  warfare  and  blood- 
shed thatare  continually  maintained  in  spite 
of  all  other  efforts  to  establish  humane  prin- 
ciples in  the  world. 

It  is  our  feith  in  the  friends  who  have  so 
kindly  aided  us  in  this  movement  that  has 
vtged  OS  on  in  the  work,  and  we  anticipate 
with  no  small  degree  of  pleasure,  the  re- 
sponses which  will  be  received  as  a  result  of 
the  present  issue.  We  shall  need  all  the 
support,  during  the  present  year,  that  can 
possibly  be  given,  and  we  trust  that  with  the 
second  volnme,  at  least,  of  this  series,  with 
the  country  resurrected  to  something  like  its 
former  prosperity,  we  shall  enter  upon  a 
career  of  success  such  as  the  merits  of  the 
movement  and  its  value  to  society  seem  to 
"arrant  ns  to  expect. 

With  the  Peacemaker,  we  hope  to  materially 
^id  in  promoting  peace,  arbitration  and  con- 
ciliation among  men,  and  with  Food,  Home 
*  Garden  we  hope  to  establith  peaceful  re- 
lations with  all  the  beautiful  creatures  of 
Rod's  creation,  and  with  the  two  papers 
working  hand  in  hand,  the  cause  of  humanity 
^ill  we  trust  be  practically  advanced. 


Mr.  Walenstein  is  transforming  the  ntoun- 
tuin  side  at  Bush  Honiesteail  ijito  an  Olive 
Orchard. — Equity,  Santa  Barbara. — This  is 
the  place  our  good  friend  Walenstein  is  pre- 
|>aring  for  a  Vegetarian  Colony  of  fruit  raisers. 


S.  Y.  Truth.— All  News  dealers. 

We  have  received  copies  of  the  New  Yoik 
Tnith  possibly  the  most  beautiful  paper  sold 
in  the  United  States.  If  our  friends  have  not 
already  seen  it  we  advise  them  to  get  it  of 
their    nearest    news  dealer. 


WATCH    LITTLE  CHILDREN. 

By  Rev.   Louis  Paroli. 

It     is    through    ignorance    or    insu£Bcient 

knowledge  of  the  laws  of  all  wise  nature  that 

our  appetites  t>econie  depraved. 

Look  at  the  little  children  and  learn  from 
them  what  to  eat  and  what  to  drink.  When 
they  have  bread  and  fruits  they  are  happy, 
and  they  eat  of  them  with  a  relish ;  drink 
freely  pure  water,  jnst  to  quench  their  natural 
thirst,  and  are  healthy,  TOS3'  and  plump. 

They  shrink,  as  a  rule,  from  anything  that 
is  given  to  them  in  the  form  of  flesh  meat, 
whether  boiled  or  roast.  Have  a  horror  of 
beer,  wine  or  any  other  liqnor,  unless  it  be 
sweet  and  sugary:  they  thrust  their  faces 
away  from  the  greasy  and  disagreeable  odor 
of  the  kitchen  not  less  than  from  the  so 
called  "sweetest"    Havana  fumes. 

Only  when  they  becouie  pre.ssed  upon  by 
the  "big"  people  they  begin  to  deprave  their 
appetites  and  gradually  are  led  to  the  cfaving 
for  flesh,  arranged,  drugged  and  embellished 
in  different  styles,  as  the  fashion  goes,  but 
always  flesh,  dead  flesh,  decaying  fleah. 
carca.«s   flesh. 

■  Oh!  depravation,  wrought  by  whom? 
By  innocent  peo]'Ie?  Why,  yes,  most  of  the 
time.  By  wicked  people?  Yes,  occasionally, 
to  corrupt  them  according  to  our  mournfully 
common,  wrong  practice. 

Why  have  we  never  considered,  for  the 
love  of  truth,  that  the  natural  inclinations 
of  the  child  are  pure,  and  not  in  hiiu  to  remain 
and  rule  him  only  while  he  is  child,  but  they 
are  there  to  be  known,-  studied,  seconded,  de- 
veloped and  perfected  by  those  who  have 
charge  of  theliltle  man  or  woman. 

Do  not  you  think,  kind  reader,  that  every 
little  one  is  in  fact  the  best  practical  philoso- 
pher and  hygienist  on  earth  ?  But  pardon 
me,  "he  is  only  a  little  child  who  has  no 
sense  ; ' '  some  one  would  say  so. 

Hark !  Let  us  understand  what  the  Arche 
type  of  man  and  nature  says  about  children 
as  our  practical  models  :  "Indeed,  I  say  un- 
to  you  unless  you  become  as  little  children 
you  shall  not  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven," 

Indeed  the  craving  for  so  much  meat  ealiufi' 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  ]ion\^  apd  Qardep 


and  snbseciuently  for  alcobolic  beverages  is 
a  curse  in  this  land,  retarding  onr  possibilities 
of  perfection  and  an  immense  source  of  siaa 
and  diseases  of  all  kinds,  and  will  sbut  out 
of  the  final  reward  the  thousands  of  gluttons 
and  drunkards  or  otherwise  not  extremely 
intemperate  people. 

Let  us  then  for  the  love  of  ourselves  watch 
the  little  children  when  they  eat  and  drink, 
and  what  they  demand,  and  like  for  their 
food  and  beverage ;  let  us  do  this 
with  the  greatest  attention  and  reverence, 
as  though  we  were  seeing  the  author  of 
nature.  Let  us  imitate  them  in  their  natnr- 
al  course  of  doing  and  express  sach  conduct 
in  ourselves ;  let  us  meantime  fulfil  our 
sacred  duty  of  bringing  them  up  religiously 
to  the  adult  age  on  the  only  wise,  and 
natural  way  of  dietetics,  which  is  told  by 
their  gennine  inclinations  and  advocated 
with  the  dearest  logical  force  by  the  Vege- 
tarian societies  of  America,  England,  Ger- 
many, France  and  elsewhere.  Could  we  see 
the  greatest  conceivable  multiplication  of 
such  societies  in  America  and  all  over  the 
world,  how  much  less  diseases  we  would 
have  to  sufier  from ;  how  much  less  of  sel- 
fishness and  vice  would  entangle  and  trouble 
the  thousands  of  souls  who  mourn  and  sufier 
terribly  in  the  midst  of  this,  our  American 
civilization,  which  might  by  such  means  as 
we  have  intimated,  become  the  greatest  Chris- 
tian Civilization  ever  seen  on  the  fiice  of  the 
globe. 

We  are  receiving  letters  from  people  who 
have  read  our  first  article  on  the  Vegetarian 
cause  requiring  more  knowledge  on  the 
subject,  and  especially  practical  directions  to 
become  accustomed    to  the  vegetarian     diet. 

Well,  our  intention  is  just  to  help  them  all, 
as  wisely  desired,  so  far  as  it  will  be  penuitted 
by  the  space  alotted  to  us  in  these  columns. 
— New  Orleans,  La. 


I  hope  some  of  those  colony  schemes  will 
be  realized. — John  Jenny,  Cleveland. — Now 
isthe  time  to.takeiitockin  the  V.  S.  A.  for 
that  purpose. 

I  have  recei\-ed  "  Out  of  the  Clouds"  (list 
No.  5)  and  am  well  pleased  with  it  and  very 
hungry  to  finish  it — Mrs.  Lydia  A.  Irons, 
Marshall,  Wash. 


1807  HENRY  L.  FRY.  1895 

On  the  27th  of  May,  1895,  before  the  morn- 
ing dawned,  our  good  friend,  Henry  L  Fry, 
the  founder  of  the  School  of  Wood  Carving 
in  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  departed  this  life.  He 
had  been  apparently  unconadons  of  out^rard 
things  for  many  hours.  Before  breathing  his 
last,  there  were  some  symptoms  of  returning 
coDsciousDess  and  a  few  words  weie  uttered 
but  not  with  suffident  distinctnes!)  to  be 
understood. 

Henry  L.  Fry  had  been  a  Vegetarian,  we 
believe,  about  ten  years  when  we  knew  him 
in  London,  England  in  1844,  so  that  when  be 
died  it  was  fiilly  sixty  years  that  he  had  lived 
the  true  life  and  he  had  attained  the  ripe  age 
of  eighty-eight  years.  We  were  in  partner- 
ship with  him  in  an  educational  effort  in 
London  connected  with  the  Phonetic  caase, 
both  being  writers  of  Pitman's  Phonography. 

He  enjoyed  his  88th  birthday.  May  8th, 
1895,  being  visited  by  his  children  and  all  his 
grandchildren  who  brought  flowers  and 
congratulations. 

According  to  his  special  request  his  remains 
were  cremated.  He  leaves  a  widow  and  a  son 
and  daughter  both  the  latter  following  their 
father's  profession. 

Mr.  Fry  was  an  earnest  reader  of  Emanual 
Swedenborg  and  his  latter  years  were  made 
happy  by  following  the  example  as  well  as 
precept  of  the  illuminated  seer  of  the  i8th 
century  and  especially  in  the  conviction  that 
the  laying  down  of  the  mortal  body  at  death 
is  followed  by  an  immediate  resurrection  to  a 
more  perfect  life  of  activity  and  usefulness 
in  the  spiritnnl  world.  He  was  a  stockholder 
in  the  V.  S.  A.  and  always  a  generous  sup- 
porter of  the  cause  and  n  writer  of  many  choice 
articles,  usually  taking  an  esthetic  and  poetic 
view  of  the  principles  he  had  so  loug  and  so 
consdentiously  espoused.  Age  appeared  to 
be  the  only  cause  of  his  departure. 


Although  I  have  been,  so  far  as  eating 
flesh  is  concerned,  a  strict  Vegetarian  foi 
forty  years  I  have  seen  to-day  for  the  first 
time  yonr  valuable  little  paper. — W.  O. 
Crosby,  Institute  of  Technology,  Boylston  St. 
Boston,   Mass.    (March  4,  1895.) 

May, 


d  by  Google 


pood,  ^om^  apd  Qardep 


AMERICAN  COCOANUT  BUTTER. 
This  batter  is  manufactnFed  from  shredded 
cocoa-nut  and  put  np  in  cans  and  barrels. 
It  is  perfectly  pure  and  g:naranteed  to  be  free 
from  all  animal  fots  or  vegetable  compounds. 
It  is  white,  sweet  and  free  from  liability  to 
rancidity. 

When  in  Chica^  in  August,  1895,  we 
visited  the  Pure  Food  Company's  wotks. 
North  Water  St.,  and  were  kindly  shown 
through  the  establishment  by  Mr.  Dearborn, 
the  manager  of  the  Company,  who  impressed 
us  very  favorably  as  a  gentleman  of  high 
character  and  respectability.  The  cocoa-nut 
Tat  is  imported  from  the  West  Indies  in  large 
hogsheads  and  subjected  to  steam  and  hot 
water  and  lastly  centrifugal  mechanism  until 
ereiy  particle  of  impurity  is  thoroughly 
washed  ont  of  it.  It  is  then  poured  into  tin 
pails  which  by  a  uew  mechanism  are  made 
oil  proof  so  that  the  cocoanut  butter  can  be 
transported  with  the  greatest  safety  even  in 
the  hottest  weather  and  the  pailscan  be  open- 
ed  witfaont  injury  and  when  emptied  of  their 
contents  become  very  useful  pails  for  general 
use  in  the  home.  It  is  then  cooled  and 
shipped.  There  was  no  smell  or  other  symp- 
tom of  lard  about  the  premises  and  Mr. 
Dearborn  said  that  lard  costs  so  much  more 
than  cocoanut  fat  that  it  would  not  be  econ- 
omy to  use  it  for  adulteration. 

The  following  testimonial  will  be  read 
with  interest ; 

ehlc«(fo,  Mir  19,  1895— To  the  Pure  Food  Product 
CompaBT,— Genllemen:— We.  the  nndenlciiRl  offlcUU  of 
>be  Palmer  Home,  Cblcaio,  nil.,  who  han  had  your 
dKoanot  Butter  on  trial  aad  ia  eiperimcDUl  uae  for  two 
Boatha  past,  an  do*  (a(l«  numeroiu  leotiil  Id  a  poilllDn 
to  uy  ibat  yonr  CocoaDut  BDtter,  (white  stock)  to  absoluttly 
pin,  DDd  oT  [ta  kind  the  mo«  elegant  aod  aweeteit  aub- 
■Itnteror  battemctput  intoiuc  Id  either  kitchen,  pantry 
or  bake  hoiue.  For  all  kindiof  ftylng  It  has  no  peer;  It 
don  not  bunt  and  doea  not  Impart  ■  flavor  of  gtcaae  to 
dlihea  cooked  Id  It. 

We  have  tried  It  In  alt  klnda  of  delicate  white  aanca  and 
wnpa  found  In  the  menu!  of  a  large  hotel,  with  reiult*  of 
tlie  moat  aallsfkctory  character  aa  to  Its  merits  Id  the 
kitchen.  In  the  Paitiy  Cook's  shop  It  has  also  beeo 
>ob)ected  to  a  UjIdj  ordeal  Id  the  making  ofpoUDdcake, 
blacBlt,  and  all  the  numeroua  kinds  of  small  fincycake. 
and  large  fralt  aod  white  cske   which  we  uae.    Here    the 


In  addition  to  the  foregoing  hcta.  11  oa 
Butter  are  equal  to    11!  oa,    of  cooking  batter  in  all  and 
every  pastry    room  preparation :    a   Baling  of    one-fourth 

Aa  at  first  we  were  skeptical  and  alow  to  discover  the 
merits  of  the  Cocoanut  Butter,  we  now  beg  to  olfcr  yon 
Ibis  repott  ilgned  tiy  each  of  a»  separately  and  Jointly  as 
the  reaulta  of  onr  senral  testa  and  aa  a  guarantee  of  the 
genuina  character  of  onr  In Testigatlona.— James  J.  N. 
Heame,  CWef  Steward.  JoKph  Scyl,  Head  Cook,  Herman 
Weimman,   Head  faatiy  Cook. 

It  is  stuted  on  good  authority  that  fifty  lbs. 
of  this  cocoanut  butter  will  go  &rther  than 
seventy-five  lbs.  of  either  lard  or  butter  and 
than  eighty-five  lbs.  of  cottolene,  cotosuet  or 
any  of  the  compounds  now  advertised.  With 
this  article  there  is  no  nncertainty,  no  liability 
or  fear  of  cholera-hog,  sick,  tuberculoses  cow  or 
bull  goaded  to  madness  by  bis  cruel  torment- 
ors. This  butter  is  found  to  contain  all  the 
acids  that  cows'  butter  contains  and  which 
are  found  well  adapted  to  aid  digestion. 
There  is  no  unpleasant  odor  or  taste  in 
cooking  with  this  product. 

Sold  in  barrels  at  12  cts.  a  lb. ;  in  60,  50 
or  25  lb.  tubs  or  cans  at  13  cts.  a  lb. ;  in  10  lb. 
tin  cans  at  $1.50;  S  !•»■  cans  at  80  cts  and 
3  lb.  cans  at  50  cts.  each. 

Address  orders  with  cash  to  the  V.  S.  A., 
310  Chestnut  St.,  Philadelphia.  The  large 
quantities  sent  by  freight  and  small  quantities 
by  express.  In  ordering  state  by  what  con- 
veyance desired. 

In  another  letter  from  James  J.  N.  Heame, 
Chief  Steward  of  the  Palmer  House,  he  states 
that  the  saving  in  expense  to  the  House  by 
using  Cocoanut  Butter  is  $90  a  month. 


Let  us  hope  and  pray,  meanwhile  I  will 
continue  to  make  efibrts  to  interest  Catholics 
in  the  work.—  Fr.  Louis  Paroli,  New  Orleans. 


Mrs.  Porter  who  is  considered  by  many  to 
be  the  prettiest  woman  in  Chicago  is  growing 
more  beautiful  oil  her  Vegetarian  diet. — Mrs. 
C.  Le  Favre,  Chicago,  Illinois. 


1  cooking  butter,  i 


with  tl 


I  tell  my  boys  F.,  H.  ft  G.  teaches  my 
principles  and  Ihat  they  will  live  ten  years 
longer  with  clearer  heads  and  better  breath 
and  habits  and  at  much  less  cost  if  they  will 
follow  its  teachings —J.  W.  Clarke,  Auburn, 
California. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  }\on\^  apd  Qardcp 


WOMEN'S  VEGETARIAN  UNION. 
Mrs.  Adrieune  Veigele,  Asst.  Sec.  of  the 
Women's  VegeUrian  Union,  London,  writes 
an  interesting  account  of  the  formation  of  this 
Union  by  the  Vegetarian  lailies  of  that  great 
city.  Among  the  originators  of  this  move- 
ment are  Sirs.  T.  R.  Allinson,  Mrs.  Sheldon 
Amos,  Mrs.  Onniston  Chant,  Mrs.  Mc  Donall, 
Mrs.  Margaret  Shurmer  Sibthorp,  Mrs.  C. 
Leigh  Hunt  Wallace  and  Miss  May  Yates  ; 
as  Hon.  Secretary  Madame  Alex.  Veigele  the 
founder  of  the  Women's  Vegetarian  Union. 


PROMINENT    VEGETARIANS. 

The  names  of  some  of  the  famous  in  history 
who    have    been  Vegetarians : 

Ancient. — Zoroaster.  Bnddah,  Pythagoras, 
Empedocles,  Plato,,  Epicurus,  Seneca,  Plu- 
tarch, Clement  of  Alexandria,  TertuUian, 
Porphry,  Chrysostrom,  Emperor  Julian. 
Sendentius. 

Modern. — Gassendi,  Mauderille,  Cocchi, 
Rousseau,  Voltaire,  Lord  Chesterfield,  Har- 
vey. La  marline,  Struve,  John  Wesley, 
Howard,  Newton,  Milton,  Haller.  Locke. 
Swedenborg.  Ritson,  Franklin,  St.  Pierre, 
Priessnitz,  Sir  John  Sinclair,  Hu61and,  Cath- 
erine Sinclair.  Shelley,  Cowherd,  Byron, 
Brotherton,  Sir  R.  Phillips,  Metcalfe,  Alcott. 
Muzzey,  Graham,  Michelet.   Trail, 

This  list  is  published  not  as  a  complete 
list  but  as  an  attempt  to  obtain  a  complete 
list.  Additional  names  will  be  published  as 
suggested  by  our  readers  when  well  authen- 
ticated. 


WHY  MISSIONS  FAILED, 
llie  Christians,  being  meat  eaters  and 
nine  imbibers,  seem  to  us  to  represent  a 
religion  devoid  of  humane  practices  :  for.  to 
the  mild  Hindu,  brotherhood  does  not  mean 
simply  the  brotherhood  of  man,  but  the 
brotherhood  of  all  living  beings.  l"hat  rep- 
resentatives of  nations  who  batter  and  kill 
for  selfish  gratification  millions  of  hogs  and 
steers  a  day  should  preach  hiimanit>-  to  an 
already  humane  community,  is  beyond  the 
comprehension  of  tlie  Indian  mind.  I  am  not 
saying  that  Christianity  requires  a  man  to 
eat  animal  food,  but  there  is  a  prevalent  opin- 
ion    in     India     that     a    person    becomes   a 


Christian  simply  to  gratify  his  appetite,  to 
eat  prohibited  food,  and  to  drink  intoxicating 
liquor.  "  ■•  ♦  •  What  have  the  mission- 
aries done  to  disabuse  the  people  of  this 
impression  ?  Have  they  shaped  their  course 
to  suit  thfc  tme  idea  ofhumanity?  People 
of  the  western  civilization  cannot  understand 
the  disgust  and  unutterable  horror  which  the 
eating  of  animal  food  produces  in  the  Hindu 
mind. —  Why  Christian  Missions  have  failed  in 
India. — Virchand  A.Gandhu,  Fon4m  April, '94 


HEALTH  SEEKING    IN  N.    C. 

Wm.  C.  Wile,  A.  M.,  M.  D..  of  Danbnrj'. 
Conn,  has  written  an  elaborate  statement  of 
the  reasons  why  Southern  Pines  and  Pine 
Bluff,  N.  C,  are  ideal  places  for  cousumpiivr 
patients.  He  claims  that  "the  position  of 
North  Carolina  in  the  central  portion  of  the 
North  Temperate  Zone  gives  it  a  climate 
unexcelled  in  any  other  portion  of  the 
world.  Exempt  from  the  extreme  cold  of 
the  Northern  States  and  from  the  torrid  heat 
and  malarial  influences  of  the  more  South- 
em,  it  is  aUso  protected  from  the  bleak 
winds  of  the  north-west  by  the  lofty  Appa- 
lachian Mountains.  The  Gulf  Stream  im- 
pinges upon  and  passes  along  its  eastern 
coast,  producing  a  soft,  genial  climate,  sim- 
ilar to  that  of  iouthern  Italy  and  France. 

"Observations  extending  over  many  years 
show  the  following  mean  temperature: 

Middle  Section,    Geoo»,  Floreiice,  Bordeaux, 

N.  C„       Italy ,  Italy,  Franee. 

Mean  An'l,  58°    61°  59°  5?°" 

Summer,       77°     75°  js"  71° 

Winter.         44°     47'  44°  43° 


1  consider  the  human  family  as  a  whole 
and  P..  H.  &.G.  is  one  of  the  needs  to  hu- 
manize riur  brothers  and  sisti.TS  from  barb:  r 
ism. — Joseph  Grill,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


I  hope  some  day  to  see  the  cause  of  Vegeta- 
rianism on  a  sound  financial  basis  and  one  of 
the  foremost  reforms  of  the  day, — Harry  Ash. 
Wilkes  Barre,  Pa. — Tliis  is  a  gocid  hope  b.it 
we  can  only  see  it  realized  by  a  constant 
effort  to  accomplish  it.  It  is  well  to  set  our 
aim  high  but  we  should  rememl>er  that 
Christianity  was  begun  by  a  doxen  men  with 
strong  faith  and  no  money.  . 


May. 


DigiiizsdbyGoOgle 


■*  A  Kcntleman  of  72  years  has 
begun  a  trial  of  "vegetarian"  life 
trom  finding  a  copy  ot  F.,  H.  and  Q. 
left  in  the  house  at  which  he  boards 
by  a  lady,  to  whom,  at  her  request. 
I  gave  It  Just  before  she  went  from 
my  cottage  to  this  Baiite  boardlnK 
house.— MlsB  E.  8.  Oakey,  Saratoga 
Springs,    N-    T. 

Is    Barkarlsai    NcceSBBrr    to     Mb- 
tloul    BxUtcBcet 

Baltimore  Is  horribly,  disgusting' 
ly  carnivorous.  The  butchers  are 
rich  and  prosperous  In  the  worst  of 
bard  times  and  live  in  luxury.  Their 
shops  are  everywhere.  Tou  cannot 
get  away  from  them,  and  sometimes 
a  row  of  poor  dead  creatures  hangs 
along  the  front  of  the  shop  and 
another  row  at  the  edge  ot  the  side- 
walk, and  you  walk  between  these 
rovi  or  cross  the  street,  where  you 
Ttn  presently  come  upon  another 
aimllarly  arranged. 

The  revolting  sight  o(  these  mur- 
dered creatures  and  the  dreadful 
imell  of  blood  and  raw  dead  flesh! 
It  Is  too  much— I  shiver  with  pain 
ana  pray  "Thy  Kingdom  come." 
These  dear  dumb  things,  created 
with  capacity  to  love,  be  happy  and 
Krateful;  to  feel  grief  and  even  to 
die  of  heart-break.  Created  to  be 
raised  by  man  to  a  higher  plane  of 
Intelligence.  Tes.  even  to  something 
'Ike  spirituality;  yet  man  descends 
to  the  brute  instead]  It  Is  simply  a 
question  of  degree  of  civilization. 
It  has,  up  to  this  time,  been  one  of 
those  Inscrutable  "needs  must  hes." 
If  Americana  did  not  eat  animals, 
perhaps  they  would  he  too  gentle, 
kindly,  patient;  perhaps  too  pure 
and  faithful  to  be  quite  safe  as  a 
nation,  from  the  bloody,  meat-eating 
nations  who  might  attack  and  over- 
come them.  It  may  be  that  the 
dark  torrent  must  flow  on  for 
another  century.  God  knows;  but 
the  lime  Is  surely  coming  when 
"There  nothing  shall  hurt  nor  de- 
Wroy  In  all  Ood's  holy  mountain." 

It  is  likewise  such  a  vile,  loath- 
"ome  eusiom.  An  old  family  cook 
told  me  that  she  could  not  bear  to 
eat  meat;  she  had  grown  sick  of 
u  from  what  she  had  seen  and  had 
to  do  In  preparing  meats  for  the 
table.  She  would  cut  out  sore 
Places,  holla,  etc.  Many  cooks 
haven't  time.  But  enough.  If  peo- 
Pie  would  only  think  they  would 
not  have  to  be  reminded  of  these 
hideous  facts.- Emelyn  A.  J.  Rich- 
ards, 315  North  Paca  street,  Balti- 
more.  Md. 


A    YOUNG    STUDENT'S       EXPERIENCK. 

The  way  1  became  a  Vegetatian  was  to  me  rather  le- 
markable.  I  had  always  had  a  feeling  for  animals,  so 
much  so  that  my  brother  began  to  ask  me  how  it  was  I 
was  so  careful  to  be  kind  to  animals  and  then  caused  thex) 
to  be  killed  for  lue  to  eat?  I  was  cornered  as  he  meant 
tne  to  be.  I  could  not  see  how  it  was  I  had  such  a  feel- 
ing for  animals  which  I  knew  was  right  and  yet  caused 
them  suffer  and  die  !  The  two  things  would  not  go 
together.  Finally,  more  to  spite  my  brother  tiian  any- 
thing, I  stopped  eating  meat.  For  all  I  knew  I  was  tlie 
only  person  in  existence  who  did  not  eat  meat.  I.  don't 
know  how  1  kept  it  up,  a  boy  of  fourteen  with  no  extraor- 
dinary will  power,  starting  out  to  do  differently  from 
the  rest  of  the  world  as  I  tliought!  I  am  sure  I  was 
being  imconciously  led  entirely  by  Providence.  Now  I  ' 
see  t'lat  it  is  wrong  for  one  creature  to  kill  another. 

Life  '  seems  to  be  some  kind  of  substance  or  thing 
which  is  divided  up,  every  animal  receiving  its  share 
according  to  its  importance.  Wliy  one  animal  having 
his  share  of  life  sliould  destroy  the  share  of  some  other 
Finiroal  I  cannot  aee  and  I  do  not  think  it  is  at  all  fair 
or  right.  At  one  tune  the  saying,  "Might  makes  right" 
was  pretty  generally  believed,  but  man  is  outgrowing 
that  unju.st  principle.  A  carnivorous  nnimal  always 
suggests  to  me  ferocity.  Man  is  beginning  to  outgrow 
his  fierce  nature  and  is  learning  that  love  and  peace  are 
infinitely  better  than  anger  and  war  and  that  a  man 
"mighty  in  good  works"  is  much  happier  than  one  who 
uses   his  might   otherwise  than  in   a  pure    and    peaceful 


If  each  person  had  to  do  his  own  killing  to  obtain  meat 
a  great  many  would  give  up  eating  meat,  because  there  is 
born  in  every  person  a  feeling  of  horror  anu  dread  for 
killing.  This  feeling  against  killing  would  not,  I  think, 
be  bom  to  all  men  if  it  were  perfectly  right  to  kill.  This 
feeling  is  overcome  in  many  cases  by  the  person  being 
tauKht  when  young  that  it  is  all  right  to  kill  and  also 
by  attaching  honor  and  bravery  to  killing  ti'l  it  becomes 
a  "  sport"  which  some  attain  a  crsze  for.  But  if  a  person 
was  brought  up  in  Rn  intelligent  family  to  abstain  from 
meat  when  he  was  to  think  for  himself  he  could  not  be 
induced  to  think  it  right  to  kill. 

If  I  am  ever  tempted  to  think  it  is  right  1  only  need 
imagine  myself  in  the  animal's  place  and  1  feel  that 
killing  is  thoroughly  wrong. 

With  a  vivid  imagination  a  person  could  easily  have 
night-mares  over  what  is  happening  every  day  to  provide 
food  which  could  easily  and  beneficially  be  left  out  of 
every  meal.  If  men  applied  the  golden  rule  to  the  lower 
animals  there  would  be  no  killling,  and  why  should  he 
not? 


Vegetal 
strangers 
vegetaria; 
quaintant 
F,.   H 


close  friends  ti 
—Robert  T.  Nenhali 

Minnesota, 


natural  bond  of  friendship  bitween 
A  vegetarian  feels  it  liis  right  to  know  other 
because  Ihej'  are  vegetarians  and  the  ac- 
;s  stronger  because  of  it,  Sol  feel  in  reading 
hat  the  whole    f>aper  and  the    wiiteis 


n*ho  has  but  few  vegetarian  friends 
1900  Hawthorne  Ave.,  Minneapolis. 


db,  Google 


pood,  ^om^  apd  (firdztj 


pood,  \\on\^  ai^d  Qardeij 


PHILADELPHIA,    MAY,     1896. 

Vegetarian    Socirty   of  America,    Pnbllahefi, 

All  coniniuiHaitlOTUi  to  be  -mt    to  3<n    ChMtnn 

9t. 

REV,    HENRY    S.    CI-UBB,    Editor. 

OseSDbKTlptlon,  jocta.,   four  SubKrlptlona    li.oo  a 

year. 

AdTtrtlMmciita   per     line,      one  lasertlon,   10   ctnto. 

Our  Apple  Blossom  DepMTtmeiit  wit),  we 
trtist,  encourage  our  dear  young  friends  all 
over  the  country  to  write  their  thoughts  for  the 
next  number.  We  have  some  pictures  in 
prospect  and  hope  to  have  at  least  one  portrait  ; 
of  a  Sweet  AfplB  Blosbom  in  every  number.    ■ 


Dr.  Wile  explains  why  Southern  Pinea  and 
Pine  Bluff  ate  so  successful  as  places  for 
restoration  to  health. 


The  books  and  tracts  reviewed  this  month 
are  all  worthy  of  carefnl  pemsal  especially 
that  by  Dr.  Kellogg  :  "Man  the  Masterpiece." 


The  "TherapenticUses  of  Apples"  will  be 
read  with  much  interestand  profit  by  all  and 
especially  by  those  who  are  liable  to  malarial 
influences  and  liver  congestion. 


Vircbchand  A.  Gandhu  gave  good  reasons 
in  the  Forum  why  Cbristiait  Missions  so 
signally  fail  under  the  management  of  flesh- 
eating  and  wine  drinking  Christians. 


The  formation  of  a  Women's  Vegetarian 
Union  in  England  should  lead  to  a  like  effort 
in  this  country.  Women  can  do  more  to 
reform  the  dietary  habits  of  the  people  than 
men  can  do  of  themselves. 


Mrs.  Geo.  A.  Farr,  of  Grand  Haven. 
Mich.,  recently  read  a  paper  on  "Fmitos 
Food  and  Medicine"  at  the  Woman's  Club 
there.  Mrs.  Farr  is  the  wife  of  oneof  Michi' 
gan's  most  eminent  lawyers  and  senators,  ' 
who  is  in  the  line  of  promotion  to  Governor 
and  U.  S.  Senator.  We  hope  to  present  this 
excellent  paper  in  our  next. 

Our  explanation  of  the  delay  in  Fe-isauing 
our  periodical  will,  we  trust,  be  satisfactory 
to  our  .subscribers  and  we  hope  the  financial 
interests  of  the  Society  will  be  sufficiently 
promoted  to  enable  us  to  issue  the  new  series 
without  intermission.  To  this  end  we  shall 
need  the  most  7«alous  co-operation  of  every 
Vegetarian  and  friend  of  the  cause. 


Our  friends  who  have  time  to  study  history 
will  please  add  from  time  to  time  the  names 
of  public  men  and  women  whom  they  dis- 
cover to  have  been  Vegetarians,  to  the  list 
we  have  elsewhere  presented. 


r  new  series  of  FoOD, 
HOUE  A  Garden  with  a  portrait  and  sketch 
of  John  Walter  Scott,  who  is  president  of  the 
N.  Y.  V.  S.  He  is  a  Vegetarian  from  principle 
and  a  liberal  supporter  of  the  cause,  especially 
in  New  York. 


In  the  Home  Department  "Food  ft  Tem- 
per" are  well  discussed  in  two  items  while 
the  .subject  of  Raisins  receive  special  attention. 
Strawberries.  Brown  Bread,  Peanuts  and 
Vegetable  Butler  and  the  curative  virtues  of 
fruit  are  presented. 


The  article  setting  little  children  np  as  ex- 
amples of  propriety  in  the  selection  of  food, 
will  be  read  with  interest.  Ii  is  one  of  a 
series  of  articles  written  by  Father  Parol  i  and 
published  in  Catholic  periodicals.  This  ser- 
vice to  the  Vegetarian  cause  has  been  rendered 
in  addition  to  his  ardious  labors  as  missionary 
among  Ihe  Roman  Catholic  immigrants  from 
Italy. 


In  the  Garden  "  Eleagnus  Longipea"  a 
new  fruit,  is  described :  also  Linden  Oil  a  new 
table  article,  is  represented  in  a  tmnslation 
from  the  Foss  Gazelle.  Until  Linden  oil  be- 
comes cheap,  Americans  will  limit  their 
ambition  to  the  use  of  such  vegetable  butter 
and  oils  as  are  easily  obtained  from  the  olive, 
the  cotton  seed  and  the  cocoanut,  all  of  which 
are   now  cheaply  purified  in  this  country. 


"A  Young  Student's  Experience"  will  be 
read  with  great  interest,  especially  when  it  is 
known  that  the  writer  was  only  15  years  of 
age  when  he  wrote  it.  Robert  T.  Newhall  is 
a  grandson  of  the  late  Rev.  B.  F.  Barrett  of 
Germantown.  The  removal  of  the  Newhall 
family  to  Minneapolis  will  we  trust,  through 
Robert's  sincere  and  earnest  devotion  to  the 
May, 


d  by  Google 


pood,  jlom^  apd  <Jarde9 


cause,  strragthen  the  movement  in  the  great 
Flonr  Metropolis.  Ont  friends  there  should 
see  to  it  that  onr  yonng  friend  will  not  long 
feel  himself  alone  as  a  Vegetarian, 

Miss  Richards  paints  a  vivid  picture  of  the 
display  of  slanghtered  animals  in  the  streets 
of  Baltimore.  Philadelphia  Is  subject  to  sim. 
ilar  criticism,  but  Hr.  Allred  H.  Love 
president  of  the  Universal  Peace  Union,  has 
secnred,  by  his  favorite  method  of  intercession 
with  the  market  house  authorities,  a  covering 
up  of  the  most  disgusting  spectacle  of  the 
heads  of  dead  animals  with  their  glaring  eyes 
which  attracted  his  attention  by  the  hidions- 
ness  of  the  display.  There  is  nothing  in  any 
of  the  food  of  Vegetarians  that  common  de- 
cency requires  to  be  covered  from  sight  of 
young  or  old. 

CHEAP  LIVING. 
Onr  friend  A.  H.  Prank  of  Bnffolo  writes: 
"Anum  of  my  acquaintance  who  has  9  child- 
ren from  14  months  to  18  years  o)d  broke 
his  leg  about  14  weeks  since  and  the  whole 
family  have  lived  on  potatoes  at  a  cost  of  16  Ji 
ets.  a  week,  for  eleven  persons.  This  is  the 
cheapest  living  that  I  have  heard  of  yet. 
Potatoes  are  very  low  here  now.  The  family 
are  in  good  health."  Irish  peasantry  have 
to  live  on  potatoes  and  are  usually  a  very 
healthy  race.  Yet  our  Densmore  philosophers 
condemn  potatoes  as  unfit  for  human  food. 


NEW  SOUTH  WALES. 
The  New  South  Wales  Vegetarian  Society 
in  its  last  annual  Report  stated:  "That  De- 
bates bad  been  held  with  various  Literary 
and  Debating  Societies  in  Sydney  and  suburbs, 
and  there  is  good  reason  to  believe  the  subject 
ofthedebate  has  been  well  received.  Several 
Lectures  had  also  been  given  by  Pastor  Dr. 
Kellogg  and  Mr.  D.  Lacy,  in  which  the  subject 
of  food  reform  had  been  well  treated.  In 
September  1894,  Mrs.  Annie  Besant  being 
in  Sydney,  a  deputation  of  members  of  the 
Society  waited  upon  her  and  presented  her 
with  a  very  neat  address,  in  accepting  which, 
she  expressed  herself  decidedly  in  favor  of  a 
non-flesh  diet.  The  Executive  continue  to 
receive  evidence  of  a  growing  interest  in  the 
subject  of  Food  Reform.  Several  proposals 
1896 


were   made  to  extend  the  usefulness  of  the 
Society. 

A  Vegetorian  Dinner  given  by  the  Society 
was  attended  by  over  60  persons  who  thorough, 
ly  enjoyed  the  repast  provided  under  the 
supervision  of  Mrs.  A,  W.  Semmona."  The 
report  was  signed  by— F.  H.  Satchell.  Presi- 
dent ;   James  W.  Lawton  Hon.   Secretory. 

THE      CHICAGO      VEGETARIAN 
BANQUET. 

One  of  the  most  importont  events  of  the 
past  year  in  the  movement  in  this  country 
vras  the  Vegetarian  Banquet  at  the  Great 
Northern  Hotel,  Chicago.  It  was  gotten  up 
by  the  Chicago  Vegetarian  Society,  the  most 
active  local  Branch  of  the  V.  S.  A.  in  this 
country.  We  were  earnestly  invited  to  be 
present  but  as  it  came  Dec.  sSth.  in  the  midst 
of  our  Church  festivities  we  could  not  leave 
Philadelphia  at  that  time  without  neglecting 
importont  duties. 

From  a  letterseat  we  quote:  "Chicago, 
although  the  world's  great  mart  of  animal 
food  in  all  its  forbidding  forms,  is  also  the  cen- 
ter of  the  great  fruit  supplying  industry  in  all 
its  lusciousness  and  beauty,  and  now,  it  seems 
to  have  achieved  the  distinction  of  leading  alt 
other  cities,  speaking  the  English  language, 
in  the  strength  of  its  testimony  and  example 
in  regard  to  the  foundation  principle  of  per- 
sonal purity  and  reform  and  applying  that 
principle  to  the  consciencious  regulation  of 
our  daily  food. 

"The  prosperity  of  your  own  central 
society  and  the  successful  inauguration  of 
the  three  suburban  societies  show  the  vigor 
with  which  the  work  of  the  past  threeor  four 
years  has  been  carried  on." 


VEGETARIAN  WEDDINGS. 
T,wo  of  these  interesting  events  occurred 
daring  the  past  year:  one  in  Detroit,  which 
we  had  the  pleasure  of  attending:  Mr.  Emil 
Hensler  to  Miss  Priester,  attended  by  about 
50  guest  s  who  were  entertained  sumptiously 
on  fruit,  cake  and  other  Vegetorian  luxuries. 
The  other  was  that  of  Alexander  Frederick 
Jenkins  to  Miss  Adelaide  Johnson,  the  formei 
dropping  his  last  name  and  becoming  Alex- 
ander Frederick  Johnson. 


Digitized  byGoOglC 


I  pood,  jlom^  aijd  (Jardei? 


THEKAPKUTlC    USES     OF     AI'PLh.t). 

R0DOLPH    HeCKBR. 

The  notable  percentage  of  phosphorous, 
exceeding  that  in  other  fruit  and  vegetables, 
renews  the  essential  nervous  matter — lethicia 
— of  tlie  brain  and  spinal  cord,  Tlie  acids 
(peculiar  to  the  apple  enliven  a  sluggish 
liver  and  carry  off  noxious  secretions  and 
waste  matter  calculated  to  dull  the  brain,  to 
cause  jaundice  or  skin    eruptions. 

The  malic  acid  offsets  excess  of  chalky  mat- 
ter introduced  by  too  much  meat,  as  well  as 
undue  acidity  (water  brash)    of  the  stomach. 

Gerard  found  that  the  "pulpe  of  roasted 
apples  mixed  in  a  winequart  of  faire  water 
and  labored  together  until  it  comes  to  be  as 
apples  and  ale,  called  lambeswool,  never" 
faileth  in  certain  diseases  of  the  brain,  which 
myself  hath  often  proved  and  gained  thereby 
crownes  of  credit." 

The  paring  of  an  apple  cut  somewhat  thick, 
the  inside  whereof  ia  laid  to  hot,  burning  or 
running  eyes,  on  retiring  at  night  and  is 
tied  to  the  same,  helps  the  patient  speedily 
and  contrary  to  expectation.  A  poullice 
made  of  rotten  apples  is  of  very  common  use 
in  Lincolnshire,  Eng.,  to  cure  weak  or  rheu- 
matic eyes.  Also,  in  the  Hotel  des  Invalides, 
at  Paris,  an  infirmary,  an  apple  poultice  is 
commonly  used  for  inflamed  eyes ;  the  pulp 
of  a  roasted  apple  being  directly  applied  over 
tlie  eye. 

Long  ago  it  was  said  apples  do  easily  ^nd 
speedily  pass  thro'  the  body  (a  good,  ripe 
apple  complelely  digesting  in  85  minutes); 
therefore  they  mollify  the  stomach  and  bowels 
and  for  the  same  reason  a  modern  maxiiu 
teaches  that : 

To  «l  an  apple  on  xaing  to  bed. 
The  doctor  tlim  will  beg  liiB  breed. 

Good  cider  and  milk  mixed  in  certain  pro- 
portion, have  been  successful  in  cases  of 
longstanding  sickness  baffling  all  efforts  of 
regular   practitioners  in  Germany 

THE   LIBRARY. 

Is    Flesh    Eating  by  Ciinstians  Morally  De- 
fensible ?— Mr.    Sydney     H,    Beai-d,     Ilfra- 
citnihe.     sets.,     $300    a  hundred. 
A   very  powerful   appeal  to  the    Christian 

public  which  must  have  weight  with  sincete 


P^ole^Kors  or    Clinstianity.     This    is    a    nice 

little  book  to  present  to  a   friend. 

A  Book  for  Married  Women. — T.  R.  Allinaon, 

L.  R.  C.  P.  »c,     35  cts.  of  the  V.  S.  A. 

This  is  an  application  of  Hygienic  living  to 
women.  Strongly  recommends  Vegetarian 
diet  but  gives  some  directions  to  those  who  do 
not  want  to  be  deemed  peculiar.  The  direc- 
tions for  successful  treatment  or  prevention 
of  all  the  difficulties  incident  to  the  trj'ing 
period  of  woman's  life  are  veiy  full  and  com- 
plete and  are  the  result  of  20  year's  active 
practice  in  London,  and  at  the  Hygienic 
hospital.  It  has  reached  a  sale  of  15,000  in 
England  and  will  be  equally  appreciated  in 
this  country.  It  is  Tokology  in  a  smallcora- 
pass  and  at  a  popular  price,  but  seems  to 
contain  all  that  is  necessary  to  be  known  on 
the  delicate  and  interesting  subject  it  treats. 
Reflections  from  the  Sun. — Sara  Thacher,  Ap- 

plegate,   Cal.     25  cts. 

This  book  is  full  of  useful  reflections  00  the 
nature  of  man  as  a  dual  being.  Each  divis- 
ion is  a  discour.'je  on  some  text  either  from 
the  Bible  or  some  other  theological  book.  It 
is  thoroughly  Vegetarian.  We  quote  from 
p.  ir:  "Consider  the  atrociousness  of  the 
butcher  and  the  sensualism  it  engenders. 
He  whose  lips  are  polluted  with  blood  can 
never  overcome  fear  and  death.  So  Iouk  as 
a  man  kills  animals  and  consumes  their  flesh 
so  long  will  hebeunder  the  dominion  of  the 
destructive  forces.  Vegetables,  grain  and 
fruit  keep  tlie  body  in  a  clean  condition  making  . 
it  more  easily  controlled  by  the  higher  law  of 
the  soul."  All  who  desire  to  live  a  pure  life 
should  read  this  book.  It  is  full  of  bright 
expressions  of  useful  thoughts. 
Man   the  Masterpiece  or  Plain  Truths  Plainly 

Told  about  Boyhood,  Youth  and  Manhood. 

—J.    H.    KelloKg.  M.   D..  Modern  Medicine 

Co.,  Battle  Creek,  Mich.  $3  00 

A  very  elaborate  and  complete  scientific 
description  of  man  :  anatomically,  physiologi- 
cally, ethically,  connubially.  With  directions 
how  to  make  life  a  success.  Also  how  to 
avoid  or  cure  the  various  forms  of  sickness 
common  among  men.  The  importance  of 
oxygen.  The  evils  of  rum  drinking  and  to- 
bacco using.  The  effects  of  these  habits 
demonstrated.  Also  clothing  and  bathing. 
Trie  forms  of  packing  and  vapor  batbs. 
Enema,  compresses,  fomentations.  Common 
ailments.  Diseases  of  special  organs.  Diet 
is  largely  treated  and  fruit,  nuts,  vegetables 
and  farinacious  foods  with  milk  and  cream, 
but  without  condiments  and  stimulants,  are 
carefully  prescribed.  Richly  illustrated.  The 
book  if  generally  consulted,  would  prevent 
much  sickness  and  suffering. 

May, 


DigiTizsdbyGoOgle 


TBe  Countess  'Wachtmeieter.  of 
LiOiidon.  vlslled  CtalcaKo  In  AuguBt. 
and  gave  a  moBt  grraphlc  description 
of  the  dire  etfecte  of  eating  the  flesh 
of  aalmaJB  slaughtered  whue  in  a 
frenzy.  In  Calllornia  a  number  of 
people  were  poisoned  by  eating  meat 
and  the  cases  were  so  remarkable 
the  physicians  In  attendance  de- 
manded an  investigation  of  the  con- 
dition of  the  animal  at  the  time  of 
slaughter  whose  fleab  had  auch  dire 
effects  on  all  who  had  partaken  of 
it.  The  man  whose  business  It  was 
,  to  kin  teatlfled  Che  animal  was  a 
large  ox,  a  magnlflcent  looking  crea- 
ture, strong  and  full  of  lite.  He 
roughl  bravely  to  save  It.  He  met 
his  murderers  defiantly,  with  eyes 
starting  almost  from  their  soi^kets, 
noBtrils  distended,  mouth  foaming. 
He  roared  and  pawed  the  ground, 
tried  In  every  way  lo  defend  and 
save  his  life  tor  over  an  hour.  Final- 
ly he  was  conquered.  His  flesh  was 
sold,  and  with  the  awful  results  re- 
lated above.— Julia  A.  Darling,  Hotel 
Isabella.   Chicago. 

A  Beaalr  Note. 
"The  secret  of  a  bad  complexion." 
said  a  well-known  physician  recent- 
ly, "Is  a  bad  digestion,  and  we  gen- 
erally trace  that  to  a  bad  liver." 
One  of  the  best  remedies  for  a  slug- 
gish liver  in  cheap  and  pleasant. 
Dieting  Is  the  secret  of  the  cure. 
The  best  liver  reeulalor  for  per- 
sons of  se'dentary  habits— and  those 
are  the  ones  whoA  complexions  are 
moddy—le  to  be  found  In  apples, 
eaten  baked  If  they  are  not  welt  di- 
gested when  eaten  raw.  1  attended 
the  pupils  at  a  well-knowti  boarding 
school,  and  among  them  was  <•  ■;uiin' 
try  girl  whose  complexion  was  the 
envy  of  all  her  associates.  I  found 
that  she  was  a  very  light  eater 
at  her  meals,  but  she  had  a  peculiar 
custom  of  taking  a  plate  of  spples 
to  her  room  at  night  and  eating 
them  slowly  as  she  studied  her  Ieb- 
sona  This  was  her  regular  prac- 
tice. Some  of  the  other  girls  In  the 
Institution  took  it  up.  and  I  know 
as  a  result  of  my  personal  investi- 
gation that  the  apple-eating  girls 
had  the  best  complexions  of  any  in 
the  school.— Spinning  Wheel. 


Mrs.  Gobbler— Children,  see  that  man  over  there  wilb 
the  full  vest? — Young  GobMets:  Yes. — Mrs.  Gobb'er: 
Well,  your  poor  father  helped  to  make  it  thus. — Syracuse 
Post. 

The  youthful  contributions,  in  the  Apple  Blossom  De- 
partirent  were  fine.  How  uoble  it  is  for  the  young  to 
abstain  from  meat  eating'  and  express  fillings  of  repulsion 
at  seeing  anitnals  killed  for  tatiug ! — A.  H.  Bradbury. 
Norway,  Maine. 

If  I  felt  as  some  contend  that  it  is  necessary  to  f(ed 
upon  life  to  live,  at  the  expense  of  other's  pnin,  though 
that  other  is  an  inferior  kind  of  species,  earlh  would  seem 
devoid  of  beauty  and  God  of  love. — Mrs.  L  H.  Coster, 
Mountain  View,  Cal, 

My  son  (13)  has  grown  to  be  such  a  consistant  Vegetar- 
ian that  I  long  to  get  faim  associated  and  attached  to  people 
of  that  faith  and  piacticeso  he  will  have  st)  it  able  associa- 
tion and  companionship. — John  R.  Cooper,  Phila. 

THREE  APPLE  BLOSSOMS  IN  OHIO. 
For  myself  I  have  never  tasted  flesh,  6ah  or  fowl,  I  use 
no  butter,  tea,  coffee,  pepper  or  vinegar.  My  three  cliild- 
ren  are  trained  in  the  same  way  and  are  strong  a  vijjorous. 
We  aim  to  act  upon  our  belief  that  these  bodies  of  ouis 
are  the  temples  of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  must  not  be  mailed 
by  self  indulgence. — Mrs.  P.  A.  Crafts  (»«  Alcoti)  214 
Woodland    Ave.,  Columbus,   Ohio. 

A  VEGETARIAN  CAT. 

Ourtnbby  isa  non-flesheater.  She  has  been  brought  up 
on  Vegetarian  diet.  Ill  nature  is  entirely  absent  for  she 
has  never  been  cross  for  a  mouienl.  She  is  very  affection- 
ate, purring  and  rising,  and  otherwise  showing  her  kind 
nature  every  day.  She  makes  friends  of  all  neighboring 
cats,  seeming  to  enjoy  companionship. 

She  has  never  caught  a  bird,  but  mice  are  often  causht 
and  carefully  played  with  until  lost.  Although  she  has 
been  known  to  eat  them  she  has  now  apparently  lost  all 
desire  for  flesh  food.  She  is  playfui  and  enjoyn  playing 
with  toads  and  catching  flies  on  the  window  pane. 

Her  diet  is  nnleavened  brown  bread,  potatoes  and  milk. 
She  refuses  white  bread  of  all  kinds  but  appreciates  un- 
leavened gems  as  a  hygiest  would.  When  one  is  shown 
to  her  she  will  try  to  get  it  and  is  happy  when  she  has 
obtained  a  portion  of  it. 

Her  disposition  is  even  and  never  treacherous  as  cats 
are  wont  to  be.  Her  whole  nature  shows  refinement. 
•Tlie  ears  are  laige  and  forehe.id  hipb.  What  would  this 
world  be  if  all  fltsheaters  were  thus  civilized  ? — Contributed. 


d  by  Google 


Bad  Teatper  nrnd  Meat  RatlBS.  PFf^'PP^ 
That  meat  eatins  Is  bad  for  the 

temper  la  the  conclusion  of  a  writer  STRAWBERRY    SHORT     Cakb. 

in  one  of  the  medical  Journals  who  Make  a  soft  dough  of   i    qt.  of  flour,    3  tablespoons  of 

has   made  a  special  study  of  the  baking-powder,   4  tablespoons    of  butter,     3    tablespoons 

subject      In    no    country    Is    home  of  white  sugar.     Roll  out  and  bake  in    three  jelly  cake 

rendered  so  unhappy  and  lite  made  pa^S.      Mash  3    qts.     of    berries   and  sweeten    them    well. 

9o  miserable  by  the  lu  temper  of  ^"^n  the   cakes  are  done,  let  the  first  and  thirdones  be 

_.               ,.,.„j   .     ,.       .  whole,    split  the  middle  one  and  put  the  hemes  between 

thc«.   Who   a';e   obl^   to   11«   to-  ^^      ^^^^^     ^^     jj    ^^    ^^   "^buttered.      Dust     white 

sether  as  In  England.    In  leas  meat-  ^^^^^^  ^^^^  jj      ^^  ^^j^^  -^  j.j.,j  ^^jj^^   ,^f^^   mashing  the 

eating  France  urbanity  Is  the  rule  berries   reserve  a    dozen  or  more  of  the  largest.      Then  be- 

_,      ,    „                   „    »  tween   the  layers  cover  with   whipped  cream,  sweetened. 

flt^Blc  Benrascs  Beat.  . ,                       ,,      .            ...            ..■..-              .-                         _  j 

,  ^         _.                        .                 ^  Also  cover  the  top  with  a  thick  coating    of  cream,   and 

I  have  given  up  tea  ^A  coffee  and  ^^^  ^^^  ^^.^^   ^^   jj   j^  Clusters, 
all  kinds  of   meat.      It   was  a   very 

difficult    task   to    leave    off    tea    and  STRAWBERRY     WATER, 

coffee,  but  by  persevemnce  I   have  Brutse  2  pts.    of  fresh,    r.pe   strawberries  with  6  ounces 

...                           ,            .   . ,.  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  3  lemons  ;  add  to  this  i  pt. 

.It  last  overcome  my  former  habits  ^^  ^,^   ^^^^.    ^j^   thoroughly,   and    pass     as  much    as  ■ 

of   ilvlng.-Mlss  Crlssle   Degon.   52  possible  through  a  coarse  cloth,  but   do   not  squeeze  the 

L*lth  street.  Fort  Wayne,  Ind.  mixture.     Then  add  another  pt.  of  cold  water  and  put  in 

For   peraons      accustomed    to   bot  a  cool  place, 

drinks,    the    caramel      or    hyKlenic  STRAWBERRIES    WITH    Whipped   Creau. 

oottee  of  Battle  Cieek.  or  Dr.  Lovell-s  ^ake  i  pt.  of  small,  ripe  strawberries  :  place  in  a  jug  and 

-Kauphy,"    Is      found      serviceable,  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar  and   pour 

Eiven  bran  coffee  la  preferable  lo  the  the  juice  of  one  lemon  over  them.     Shake  well ;  cover  and 

coffee  berry,  which  senerally  causes  let  stand  for  ten  minutes.      Whip  ^   pt.  of  cream  to  a  Stiff 

headache.  froth,   turn  on  a  hair  sieve,  so  that  the  milk  can   drain  off. 
Give  the  strawberries  another  shake,  turn   tliem  in    the 

'••••  form  of  a  pyramid  on  a  ^lass  dish,  pour  the  juice  over, 

A  bactertologlst  baa  recently  dls-  andcoverthem  with  the  whipped  ci^am.     Serve  at  once, 

covered  that  germs  which  produced  VGGETABLe    PlE 

phosphorescence     In  decaylnB   sub-  Fora  small  pie:    take  three  r.r  four  medium  sized   |>ota- 

stances  are  capable  of  growtfa  at  a  toes,    an  onion,  and    1  or    2    hard  boiled   e^gs.      Slice   the 

temperature  sufflclently  tow  to  (reeae  potatoes  and  onions,  season  as  desired,  and  boil  in   about 

water.     This  explains  the  tact  that  a  pint  of  water.      When  done  line   a   deep  pie   plate  with 

mea*  and  other  subatancea,  althouEh  cinst,  put  in  the  potatoes  and  ouion  and  slice  the  egg  over. 

kept  In  Ice  cluunt>ers.  aMinlre  after  If  ^^   water  has  boiled  away  add   more   as   plenty    is   re- 

awhlle  a  disagreeable  taate  and  odor.  q«'»d.  thicken  thU  water  with  flour,  add  a  piece  of  butter 

giving  evidence  that  a  form  of  de-  »«d  pour  part  of  the  gravy  in  the  pie.     Cover  with  a  top 

oomposltlon  has  been  taking  plac*.  cnist  andbake.-.\.   W.   E 

aJthouffh  different  from  the  ordinary  ,    ,    ^.          Brown    Bread. 

p™ce«i  of  putrefaction.    The  preser-  '  ""P  *>'    ^•'/'»"  "V^'' ,  '  ''^    '^"'*   ^^  ^^,  "^,V    ^  J^   °^ 

.  .    ,    .  wheat  flour,   fi  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of   milk,    \'A    cup 

vaUon   of   food    for   any    length    of  ^f  ^^n,  ^^ter,   with  one  teaspoon   of  ^kIx  dissolved    in   it. 

time    requires    dryness    aa    weU   as  p„t  on^  teaspoon  of  Salt  with   the  flour,  mix  all    together 

coldness.    In  a  damp  atmoephere  de-  thoroughly    and  steam  3  or  4  hours.      I   steam  mine  in    a 

composlUon  will  occur  in  a  freezing  tin  pudding   mold,    with   a    tight   fitting   cover,  but  a  pail 

temperature. — South   Florida   Home,    will  do A.  W.   E. 


db,  Google 


Vmmt  ■>«  T«B*cr.  BaK£D  PEANPTS. 

An«r  eatlne  m  hearty     meal   of  Peanots  baked  ill  tbe  same  tnatmer  as  beans  bat  without 

warm  food  I  often  feel  stupid  and  the  addition  of  oil  are    excellent. — Mrs.    Le  Favre. — We 

^eepy.      Bat   afto'   a   IW>t    Inndi  have  tried  them  and  relished  them  as«  change  from  beans. 

of  frnlt  and  tBvad  or  mnab  I  can  Peannts  shelled  can  be  obtained  in  Philadelphia  at  lo  cts  a 

Idleli   Into  the  work  wilb  a   (ood  !*».   in  ten  lb.  bags. 

wm  and  when  tt  li  done  can  enjor  POPCORN  Baixh. 

a  cood  TiMnp  and  iday-eiidl  with  the  Mix  with  i  cnp  of  r.iolasses,   i  cnp  of  sngar,    and   )i   <nip 

chOdran,  and  Snd  I  fed  bo  mneh  of  bntter.     Put  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  boil  until  it 

better  for  It.   I  mean  to  keep  m  and  spins  a  delicate  thread.     Use  good  popcorn,   rejecting  all 


B  what  can  he  done  wHb  ■ 

If  by  HvtDS  on  a  HrvH  diet   ' 


nnpopped  kemals.  When  the  sjmp  is  cooked,  pnt  tht 
kettle  on  the  back  of  the  stove  where  the  syrup  will  les- 
sen in  heat  but  not  become  cool.  Mix  the  popcorn  care- 
ftilly   with  the  symp,  stiiring  gently  that  the  kernels  roa>- 

er.  1  tfian  fed  wdl  paid  for  mj  ^^j   ^^  broken.     As  soon  as  it  is  cold  enough   to  handle. 

—'••-      I  naed  to  think  I  ahonld   grease  the  hands  and  form  into  balls.— '-Table  Talk." 

^  -^^"^'^^T  '^  VEGETABLE    BUTTER. 

JC   about   Miaa   Btanicrd   In   your  ..,,.,  ,_■        -  , 

iMt  lamw  has  stven  »e  heme  and  I       ^«  "»«  "^  vegetable   fat  for  cooking  in  preference  to 

^,  ,j,,_  ,_.  bntter  and  lard  is  rapidly  increasing. 

Mean  ta  tir  and  follow  ho-  enm-  ^^  g  ^  ^mat.  Principal  Philadelphia  Cooking  School. 
pie.  I  hope  aD  who  read  thla  win  editor  of  Household  News,  Phila.,  writes  "I  have  beei< 
try  and  do  th«  mme.  f or  tt  to  mr  ^gj^^  Diamond  Bntter  Oil  exclnsively  in  my  home  and 
hcllrf  WB  Acnld  an  try  to  Bve  as  G<:hool  for  font  months;  find  it  much  better  than  laid  and 
near  «  pctfCet  Ufe  as  poariblc^  and  butter  for  cooking  purposes,  and  I  unhesitatingly  recom- 
do  O^  beat  we  can  to  help  others  to  mend  it  to  American  housewives." 

da  BO.— Mtu,  T.  E.  T^g^-m.  in««-~i,        Mrs.   Ella   I,uria  Hoyle,  Cooking  Lecturer  and  Principal 

ri»iisMi   eoonty,  CaL  ^-  O-  Cooking  School,  writes  from  New  Orleans:     "1  in- 

■t«iri»i».  doise  Diamond   Batter  Oil  both   for  pnrity  and  economy. 

In  iiiswiiiw  IS  I    of  the  marvelaiis   and   recommend   it  highly  to  all  careful  housekeepers  and 

Erawtb    itf    the    laMn    indostry    In   cooks." 

a  and  the  cbcapneas  of  the       Mi's-    E.  W.   A..   Haverhill,  Mass.,  writes  :     "I  like  the 
DiaiHOttd  Bntter  Oil  very  much  and  I  want  aome  more." 

The  manufacture  of  Cocoanut  Bntter  in  America  is  also 
a  great  gain  in  this  direction.  A  lady  of  our  acquaintance 
who   has  tried  both,  says  it  is  superior  to  that  imported 

■•  Irom   Germany.     The  Vegetarian  Society  of  America  sup- 

a  Ittzury.  a»d  the  arKoment  seemed  pUg^  j,Qti,  products  and  guarantee  the  pnrity  of  what  they 
to  tavor  the  affinnathre  of  ttie  pro-   snpply 

»'^?^ ,_,  ^  „  ^    ^  ECONOMICAL. 

R  to  asserted  l>y  those  who  have        _  rr^i-a  >•.  •.-.. 

siadtoil  |I»  mw'BitiMi  ruiin  ■  w  li  iililh        Four  os.  ofGrafaam  flour,  made  lotogems  and  a   little 

and  hjKl—ki  standpetnl  that  the  no-   fruit  and  about  j{  oz.  of  cheese,  sometimes,  makes  a  men) 

Iritlve  power  of  laWna  as  asnpaied   for  me.     I  only  use  cbeese  occasionally.     My  health  is  ez- 

to  maat  Is  aa  fMtr  to  onfc  cellent.     The  longer  1  practise  V^eUrian  diet  the  more 

BaUi^  Ifte  other  dried  fridt^.  are   j  am  j  a   love  with  it.     I  discard  all  stinmlus  not  having 

KswdnefM^eHOalndeiMUs'^l^   drank  a  cnp  of  tea  for  6o  yeare.      Coflee  I   never  nsed. 

y  as  ncecNaiy  M  pM^beauh   ^^,^j.  .^   ^^^  emmgh  for  me.     I  drink  very  little  as  I^ 

miytlcal  cbem-   eating  fruit   it  is  not   uncommon  to  go  a  month  without 

-    -        --     .   drinking  and  have  passed  three  months  without  drinking 

anything.— A.  H.  Prank,  Bn&lo,  N.  Y. 

Tkose  who  hare  studied  the  que*-  ..  FRUIT  AS  MEDICINE." 

Ikw  «t  latolns  an  food  prtfcas  to       _     ..  .        ,         ■,-.....  _    . 

have   soeaethlnc   like   1<H>   ncdpta       Fruit  IS  not  medicine,  but  It  encoMTUgea  natural  proqcnc. 

lor  the  preparstloa  of  the  ratoin,   es  by  which  remedial  processes  ale  brought  about.     High 

and  each  of  ttwae,  it  Is  asserted,  has   authority  gives   the   following  as  the  curative  eficcts    of 

.-,  Yaioc,   BSTB   the  San   various  kinds  of  frtiit;     "laxatives:  oranges,  figs,  tarn - 

trronlele."  Whether  this  urinds,    prunes,    mulberries,  dates,  nectarines,  and  plntus. 

**"•*.'.'*   "  J"^  l"^   Astringents:  pomgranates,  cranberries,  blackberries,  dew- 

uuns  IS  very   certain,   and   that   is    •        .  l       -  _  ^       'n    <        -  n. 

Ibat  the  world  would  be  better  off   ^'^^^s-  raspberries,  quinces,  pears  and  wild  cherries.     Di- 

from  the  hygienic  point  of  view  It  "i^tics :     grapes,     peaches,    strarwbemes,    whortleberries. 

we  were  to  eat  more  fmlt  and  less    black    currants  and  melon  seeds.     Refrigerants :    gooseber- 

■  sieot.— ChlcsKo  E^renlns  Post.  ries,  red  and  white  currants,  ptunpkinsand  melons." 


catlnistD   be   oiiaslie    < 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


BlMsnDi   LoDBlpea.  LINDEN  OIL 

EleagnuB  longlpeB  IB  a  valuable  TsANaLATED  From  Voss  Gazette  by  Rudolph  Hecker. 
new  fruK  aa  well  m  a  m«Biilfl-  oil  for  tlie  table,  made  by  si  ientific  process,  of  the  seed 
cent  ornamental  shrub  from  Japan,  of  the  Linden,  Tilisi ;  either  llie  European  Linden,  or  the 
Perfectly  hardy,  free  from  disease  Tilia  Americana,  (Basswood)  also  called  the  bee-trte, 
and  Insect  vermin  of  all  kinds.  Very  l>eeau8e  the  boney  bee  greatly  resorts  to  it  in  dne  season. 
altractlve  in  bloom  In  May,  after  "^^^  seed  is  produced  annually  in  largequantity  with  but 
which  until  late  In  the  fall  it  Is  rare  if  any,  decrease  and  this  raw  material  is  notably  rich 
clothed  in  lu>uHant  green  foliage,  '"^  o'L -f  percent. ranking  below  the  Par:^  nut  (Bertholetia 
,....,  excelsa),  the  eoeosnut  (cocos  nucifera  palm)  and  the  hazel - 
Bllvery  underneath,  and  produclnB  ^^^ .  ^^^  ^,^^^^  ^j,^  ^^^^^^^_  linseed,  the  sunflower,  evet. 
In  profusion  handsome  bright  red  jj^^  ^il  palm  proper.  The  linden  seed  may  be  pressed,  or 
berries,  which  make  dellclouB  sauce,  crouud  ;  the  oil  being  extracted  by  means  of  petroleum- 
This  fruit  haa  been  grown  and  high-  ether,  and  then  got  by  distillation.  If  properly  procured 
ly  prized  in  an  amateur  way  for  a  this  oil  has  the  identical  fine,  clear  hue,  limpidity  and 
number  of  years,  but  not  until  re-  agreeable  flavor  of  the  best  olive  oil,  devoid  of  aughtof 
cently  has  lis  great  value  aa  a.  gar-  bitterness  &c.  It  does  not  get  rancid,  may  be  freely  ex- 
den  or  market  fruit  been  recognized.  !»osed  to  the  atmosphere,  will  not  dry  up.  has  no  affinity 
We  anticipate  for  this  rare  and  forotygen.  iherefore  it  is  equally  valuable  for  industrial 
,     .,  ,    ,.         ■  .,      purposes.     A  wintry  temperature  of  21  degrees  Centigrade 

valuable  new  fruit  an  Immense  de-  ^^  ^^^  ^^^^  j^^  l^^^,  ^^^  .institution.  These  features 
mand  as  soon  as  Its  great  merits  ^^^^  already  patent  about  a  century  ago,  but  untoward 
become  known  to  the  public  cirx;um stances  precluded  action  looking  to  elaboration. 

Extract  from  William  Falconer,  m        The  present  Status   of  chemistry  adapted   to   commercial 
"Rural   New   Yorker:"    "The   shrub   purposes  admits  successful  process. 

Eleagnus  longlpes  is  one  of  my  ape-  The  Tilia  Americana  produces  no  nuts,  but  small  seeds 
clal  favorites.  I  have  grown  It  for  lil^e  the  European  Linden  tree.  The  Basswood  tree,  be- 
yeara  and  the  longer  I  know  It  the  sides  the  seed,  is  a  useful  tree  ;  for  timber,  honey  and 
belter  I  like  It.  It  Is  a  native  of  medicinal  purposes ;  the  dried  blossoms  being:  an  excellent 
Japan  and  belongs  to  the  olive  fam-  sudoriflc,  a  nice  beverage, 
lly  of  plants,  and  Is  perfectly  hardy. 

As   a   garden   shrub   It   grows   to   a  A  COMPLETE  FRUIT  GARDEN. 

helKht  of  live  feet  or  more:  is  bushy  p^  -q^j  pign  for  a  fruit  garden  is  given  by  an  exchange . 
and  broad  and  thrifty.  Plants  be-  u  {^  sixtv-dght  feet  wide  one  hundred  and  fiftv  feet  long, 
tl'''4Z\:^T:rtVTl^^Z  -'^  staked  off  in  row.s  one  hundt^  and  fifty  feet  long  and 
green  above  allvery  beneath  and  seven  feet  apart,  because  then  most  of  the  work  can  be 
last  In  good'  condition  all  aummer  done  with  a  horse  and  cultivator.  The  strawberry  rows 
long,  and  are  never  diallgured  by  need  only  be  three  and  one-half  feet  apart.  A  headland 
Insect  vermin.  The  flowers  are  seven  and  a  half  feet  wide  is  left  at  each  end  forturning. 
small,  silvery  yellow  and  borne  in  The  first  row  is  set  three  feet  from  the  outside,  and  the 
great    abundance     and    are    In    full   others   follow  in  order. 

Th^°'?ruU°"s  ofal    five"e!g^^^^^^  First  Ro^  :  Fifty   blackberries.  Fort  Ancient  Briton,    ten 

Inch  or  more  long,  very  fleshy  and  Snyder.— Second  Row:  Fifty  black  raspberries,  twenty 
Juicy,  bright  red  and  drooping,  on  Nehenia,  twenty  Ohio,  ten  Older,  Palmer  or  Progress. 
slender  pedicels  on  the  undor  aide  — Third  Row:  Fifty  red  raspberries:  twentj-.five  Marl- 
of  the  twigs,  and  borne  In  immense  boro,  fifVeen  Cuthbert.  ten  Shaffer's  Collossal. — Fourth 
profusion.  It  iB  ripe  about  July  4  Row:  Fifty  currants:  twentv-five  Victoria  and  twenty-five 
to  10.  We  use  the  fruit  for  sauce  r^^  Dutch.— Fifth  Row:  Whitecnrrants  &  gooseberries: 
Hcious  Tuee  "^  mak^^'  tsnec'latry  twenty-five  white  grape,  fifteen  Downing  and  ion  Hou^h- 
fnr  children:  Indeed,  1  like  it  ao  well  *°"- — ■^'*t'''  Seventh  &  Kighth  Row.s  :  Three  hundred 
that  I  have'  planted  It  In  our  fruit  strawberries:  200  pistillate  and  100  Staniinate. — Ninth 
garden  as  a  standard  crop,  aa  one  Row:  .Seventeen  ^lapes:  Moore's  Earlv,  VVorden,  Brigh- 
— Florida   Southern    ton,  Concord  i  Delaware  — Tenth   Row:  Hardy  fruit  trees. 

May. 


,v  Google 


db,  Google 


ALBERT  H.  SNYDER, 

PftESroERT    OF     THE  CHICAIEO   VEGETARIAN    SOCIETT. 


d  by  Google 


Vol.  I,  No.  t.  New  Sgribh. 


Wbolb  NmiBBK,  74. 


COUNT    LEO    TOLSTOI. 


EUROPE  to-day  has  no  better  represen- 
tative of  advanced  thought'  and 
practical  wisdom  than  Count  Leo 
Tolstoi.  He  is  called  "the  grand  old  man 
of  Russia."  Starting  as  a  novelist  he 
attained  great  distinction  and  having  adopted 
Vegetarianism  he  has  rapidly  advanced 
in  his  moral  and  spiritual  nature  and 
stands  to-day  in  the  very  front  rank  of  the 
moral  reformers  of   the  19  century. 

He  is,  of  course,  opposed  to  all  forms 
of  physical  violence  and  although  a 
communist  and  believer  in  human  right-s 
he  will  not  counsel  the  commission  of  a 
single  act  of  violenceto. accomplish  political 
emancipation.  This  position  has  saved  him 
from  prosecution  by  the  Russian  government 
and  with  alt  his  radicalism  he  is  really  in 
favor  with  the  Imperial  Court.  The  emperor 
respects  him  for  his  nobility  of  character  as 
well  as  for  his  title  of  nobility. 

Connt  Tolstoi  attributes  all  the  ills  of  the 
present  life  to  deliberate  violation  of  the 
teachings  of  Christ.  His  religion  is  that  of 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  He  is  so  rndical 
as  to  believe  that  the  teachings  in  that  ser- 
mon are  not  only  ideally  true,  but  eminently 
practical  He  believes  standing  armies, 
navies,  slaughter  houses  and  all  such  devices 
for  the  shedding  of  blood  are  repugnant  to 
ttie  will  of  God  and  should  be  abolished. 
That  evil  should  be  re.';isted  only  by  moral 
means.  He  is  an  enemy  to  all  deadly 
force  or  violence.  For  reform  he  depends  on 
effectiag  a  change  in  men's  ideas  and  senti- 
ments. Victor  Varros  in  an  article  on 
Count  Tolstoi  in  the  Phrenological  Journal 
furnishes  us  with  some  of  these  pnrticolars 
and  in  regard  to  the  Count's  private  life 
he  Bays : 
"Connt   Tolstoi's   private  life,   while  not 


absolutely  consistent  with  his  philosophy 
of  existence,  comes  as  near  being  a  faithful 
realisation  of  his  ideal  as  modern  social  con- 
ditions allow.  Belonging  to  the  highest 
nobility,  he  entirely  ignores  all  arbitrary 
divisions  of  society  and  deals  with  all  men 
on  terms  of  absolute  equality.  Rank,  titles 
are  nothing  to  him,  or  rather  worse  than 
nothing,  for  he  considers  them  to  be  un- 
christian and  demoraliaing.  He  believes  in 
simple  natural  existence,  and  in  spontaneous 
morality.  He  has  profound  &itb  in  the 
moral  worth  of  the  peasants,  '  children  of 
aature,'  whose  lives  are  purer  than  those 
of  so  called  civiliced  men.  Though  a  pos- 
sessor of  considerable  wealth  and  landed 
property,  Count  Tolstoi,  refuses  to  derive 
any  personal  enjoyment  from  it.  The  Count- 
ess, his  wifie,  manages  his  estates,  and 
disposes  of  the  income.  Count  Tolstoi,  true 
to  his  ideas,  refrains  from  interfering  with 
his  wife's  business  methods,  believing  that 
he  has  no  right  to  compel  her  to  adopt  his 
views,  which  she  does  not  altogether  share. 
His  children  (and  he  has  several)  sympathize 
largely    with    his  theories  and    aid    him    in 

"Count  Tolstoi  dresses  like  a  peasant  and 
lives  in  the  simplest  possible  way.  He 
passes  most  of  his  time  in  the  country,  where 
he  works  in  the  fields  with  the  peasants, 
when  his  literary  and  charitable  activities  are 
not  pressing.  No  man  in  Ru.ssia  did  more 
for  the  peasantry  during  the  recent  famine 
than  Count  Tolstoi.  He  secured  funds,  or- 
ganized relief  societies,  established  eating- 
houses  and  distributed  seed. 

"Count  Tolstoi  is  against  any  use  of  in- 
toxicants or  tobacco.  His  expl.tnation  of  the 
widespread  craving  for  stimnlanl.s  is  peculiar. 
Men  smoke  and  drink,  he  says,  because   ihey 

19 


d  by  Google 


pood,  \\omz  apd  (firdzi) 


KeTt  to  drive  away  disquieting  thonglits. 
Their  conscieace  troubles  them  and  keeps 
femioding  th«ai  of  the  sinfulness  of  their 
lives.  To  Inll  and  silence  conscience  we 
resort  to  tobacco  or  drink.  "Men,"  declares 
Tolstoi,"  are  afraid  to  think.  They  know 
that  they  are  hypocritee  and  criminals  and 
they  will  do  everything  to  forget  themselves." 

That  Count  Tolstoi  is  a  Vegetarian  has 
long  been  reported  and  the  report  is  confirmed 
by  the  following  frova   bis  own  pen  : 

"  I  only  desire  to  establish  the  propositions 
that,  in  order  to  lead  a  moral  life,  it  is  nec- 
essary to  observe  a  certain  sequence  in  good 
actions ;  that  if  a  man  is  serious  in  his 
aspiration  to  lead  a  good  life  the  practical 
manifestationsof  that  desire  will  necessarily 
unfold  themselves  in  a  certain  order,  and 
tliat  in  this  order  the  abstemiousness  (self 
mastery)  is  the  first  virtue  wbich  ht-  will 
have  to  cultivate.  In  the  pursuit  of  the 
virtue  of  abstemiousness  he  must  again 
observe  a  certain  definite  order,  and  the  first 
step  therein  will  be  abstemiousness  in  food 
fasting. 

"  In  the  practice  of  fasting  the  first  thing 
from  which  he  musl  abstain,  if  he  really  and 
truly  aims  at  leading  a  good  moral  life,  is 
animal  food,  and  this  for  the  intelligible 
reason  that,  not  to  apeak  of  the  passions  it 
engenders  and  fosters,  the  consumption  of 
of  animal  food  is  plainly  immoral,  because 
it  demands  an  act  which  does  violence  to 
our  moral  sentiments — viz.,  murder — and  is 
encouraged  and  kept  up  ouly  by  men's  ?reed 
of  gold  and  their  appetite  for  savory  food. 
The  reason  why  the  first  step  in  lasting  and 
in  right  living  is  abstinence  from  animal  food 
has  been  admirably  formulated,  not  by  one 
man  only,  but  by  all  mankind  in  the  persons 
of  its  most  accredited  representatives  during 
the  course  of  liuiiian  history. 

"But  why,  one  may  ask,  if  the  illegality — 
i.  e..  immorality— of  consuming  animal  food 
has  been  recognized  by  mankind  for  such  a 
long  period,  havi;  people  nevertlieless  pej- 
sisted  down  to  the  present  in  ignoring  this 
law  ?  This  quesiion  naturally  su^se^ts  itself 
to   those  who  aie   prone  to  be  guided  le.ss  by 


the  light  of  their  own  reason  than  by  public 
opinion.  The  answer  to  the  question,  howr- 
ever,  is  that  all  moral  progress,  (and  moral 
progress  is  the  essence  of  all  progress  what- 
ever) is  a  work  of  time,  is  accomplished 
slowly,  but  that  the  sign  of  genuine  progress, 
as  distinguished  from  casual  advance,  is  it» 
uninterrupted  continnousness  and  its  ever 
increasing  rapidity." — Count  Tolstoi  in  JVm/ 
Review. 


DOMINION. 
We  are  bid  to  have  dominion  over  all  living 
creatures,  but  dominion  nevtr  means  to  kill. 
A  parent  has  dominion  over  his  family,  but 
does  that  give  him  the  right  to  kill  them  ? 
Verilyno.  God'scommandis:  "Thoushaltnot 
kill" — that  is  anything  that  ha.0  life.  Just  the 
same  as  the  next  command:  "Thou  shalt  not 
steal." — that  is  nnythingthat  does  not  belong 
to  you.  There  is  no  limit  to  either.  Take  not 
what  you  cannot  give,  and  that  is  Life.  Do 
not  eat  and  drink  condemnation,  then  try  to 
preach  salvation.— J.  H.  Neff,  Ft.  Wayne.  Ind. 


PHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

The  May  Meeting  of  the  Philadelphia 
Vegetarian  Society  was  held  on  the  i8th  of 
May  at  the  Lecture  Room  of  the  B.  C.  Church. 
Park  avenue.  Mrs.  Sarah  Hall  the  Vice  Presi- 
dent occupied  the  chair  in  the  absence  of 
President  Rev,  A.  T.  de  Learsy  who  is  in 
Nebraska.  Miss  Emma  I.  Bettes,  who  was 
elected  last  month,  occupied  the  Secretary's 
seat  and  her  performanceof  the  duties  of  her 
new  ofi&ce  gave  great  satisfaction. 

The  meeting  was  opened  with  prayer  by 
Rev.  Henrj-  S.  Clubb  who  also  addressed  the 
meeting  giving  an  account  of  how  success 
had  been  achieved  in  Chicago  by  the  efibrts 
of  quite  young   Vegetarians. 

Boarding  Houses  jiiid  Restaurants  were 
discuKsed  and  speeches  made  by  Dr.  Abby, 
Dr.  I.ovell,  and  Rev.  Chas,  Daniel  who  after- 
wards entertained  and  instructed  the  audience 
ivith  a  lecture  on  "the  Slums  and  who  is 
Responsible,"  illustrated  by  lantern  pictures. 
The  subject  of  a  Picnic  will  be  discus.'scd  at 
the  next  meeting  to  be  held  Monday.  June  15. 
The  question  :  Where  shall  wc hold  our  Picnic' 
June. 


Digitized  by  Google 


pood.  Hom^  apd  Oarde9 


CHICAGO  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

Tbe  anniia]  meetiog  of  the  Cbicago  V.  S. 
took  place  May  5.  at  the  Grand  Northera  Hotd. 

From  the  /nitr  Ocata  we  learn  that  Captain 
W.  P.  Black  read  a  paper  on  vegetarianism 
from  the  hnmantaiian  standpoint.  "  The  Pre- 
doosness  of  life."  His.  H.  C.  Gttrner  presen- 
ted the  ntilitarian  view  in  "  The  Desirability  of 
a  Vegeturian  Mode  of  Living. " 

The  annual  election  of  officen  lesnlted  in  the 
selection  of  the  following  for  the  ensning  year. 

Albert  H.  Snyder,  president ;  Dr.  James  R. 
Price,  vice  president ;  H.  S.  Wilcoi,  recording 
secretary ;  P.  E.  Greene,  corresponding  secre- 
tary ;  Miss  Frances  LDaesenbary,  treasurer. 

Dr.  Stockham  has  kindly  consented  to  speak 
at  the  Jane  meeting  to  be  held  Tuesday,  June 
3,  at  the  Great  Northern  Hotel.  Seven  or 
eight  members  were  received. 

A  Vegetarian  Boarding  House  has  recently 
been  opened  in  Chicago  and  another  is  contem- 
plated, the  first  one  kept  by  Mrs.  Bmbaker,  a 
member  of  the  C  V.  S.,  being  already  fall  of 
boarders. 

Dr.  Stockham  has  invited  the  Vegetarians 
to  a  picnic  at  her  beautiful  home,  Stockham 
Park.  Evanston,  the  extreme  northern  suburb 
of  Chicago;  probably  sometime  in  Jnne  or 
Jnly. 

Luther  E-  Ellison  a  prominent  member  of 
the  Chicago  Vegetarian  Society  was  married, 
March  8th,  1S96,  to  Mande,  daughter  ^Hr. 
and  Mrs.  O.  P.  Steams,  at  Winthrop,  N.  Y. 
At  home  in  April  and  sncceeding  months  at 
909  Grove  St.,  Evanston,  Ills.,  a  suburb  of 
Chicago.    Congratulations ! 


who  also  furnished  the  headings  for  the  Amxt 
Buoasoit   SoaETY.  , 


Cattle  Inspector  Bemis  of  Paxton,  who  is 
77  yeara  of  age,  is  a  severe  sn&ret  as  the  re- 
sult of  blood  poisoning,  caused,  it  is  claimed, 
by  one  of  his  fingere  that  was  cttt  coming  in 
contact  with  a  badly  diseased  animal  that  had 
been  slaughtered  iq  that  town. 

His  whole  sysfem  has  become  afiected,  and 
two  fingers  on  one  hand  have  been  amputated 
as  the  result  of  this  blood  poisoning. — Pkila. 
Item. 

Tbe  venous  blood  of  even  a  healthy  animal 
will  cause  blood  poisoning.  Whoever  heard 
of  blood  poisoning  from  touching  the  blood  of 
abeet? 


Mrs.  ChantdnringalectureatDenver.CoIo. 
is  reported  to  have  said  ;  "The cooking  of  the 
fntnre  will  be  simpler.  Fruits,  vegetables, 
cereals  will  form  a  macb  laiger  proportion  of 
onr  food.  Our  ancestors  once  ate  human  fiesh 
raw.  We  eat  animals'  flesh  cooked.  This  is 
certainly  a  great  step  in  advance.  Bat  I  be- 
lieve the  time  will  come  whem  the  stockyard 
will  be  as  much  a  thing  6i  the  past  as  the  can- 
nibal's meal."  She  repeated  a  rcdpe  for  a 
partridge  pie  from  an  old  book,  an  insane  mix- 
ture <A  birds,  bacon,  onions,  strawberry  pie- 
serves  and  port  wine,  and  Ibankcd  God  that 
the  new  woman  had  already  ceased  laying 
such  death  traps  for  dyspepsia  as  that. 


Tlie  tone  of  Food,  Houb  %.  Gardeiv  is  so 
npliding ;  its  spirit  ta  benign  that  it  really 
always  refreshes  me  and  gives  me  new  hope. 
—Dr.  John  M.  Habel.  Y.  M.  C.  A.  B'g,  Fhila. 


Pur  the  beautilhl  engraved  title  to  Food, 
Home  a  Garden  on  the  first  page  of  cover 
we  are  indebted  to  Mr.  Emil  Hensler  erf  De- 
troit wbo  donated  it  to  theV.  S  A.  who  also 
famished  the  engraved  heading*  to  theHoH^ 
and  Gardbk  Dbparthsrts  on  the  same 
liberal  ter:uH.  The  fancy  running  titles  are 
ornamented  by  a  design  from  Geo.  Brunswick, 

189& 


PROPERTIES  OF  VEGETABLES. 

An  eminent  jibj  sician  who  has  been  ioTesti- 
gating  the  properties  of  the  different  vegeta- 
bles, announces,  according  to  the  New  York 
Journal,  that  a  diet  of  carrots  ameliorates 
barshness  of  character  and  reduces  aervoas 
irritability;  peas  create  fiitty  tissue  and  en- 
courage jo>onsness,  while  turnips  have  jnst 
the  opposite  effect.  Celery  taken  in  excess 
canses  eye  trouble  while  cabbage  isheneficiol 
in  pnlmonoiy  ailments,  and  lettuce  aids  as  a 
sedative,  owing  to  the  opium  contained  in  its 
milky  juice  which  keeps  skin  clear  and  fresh. 

Red  beets  ore  blood  producing  and  will  add 
plumpness  to  the  thinnest  form  providing 
they  are  boilfd  tcndtr  —  Womankind. 


d  by  Google 


pood,  jiiom^  apd  (firdzjf 


THE  LION  AND  THE  LAMB  WITHIN 
AND  WITHOUT. 


ByICarkica  Ls  Favre. 

Back  of  all  material  and  nataral  there  is  a 
spiritual.  The  outer  is  symbolical  of  the  inner. 
Wonld  we  have  the  "lion  tie  dowii  with  the 
lamb  "  in  the  onter  kingdom,  we  mtist  make 
the  lion  of  onr  own  nature  lie  down  with  the 
lamb  of  onr  own  nature.  We  must  stop  the 
act  of  slaughter  and  the  thought  of  it  that 
prompts  the  act. 

Man  is  a  composite  being  having  in  him  all 
the  natures  he  sees  out  there  in  those  animals. 
As  soon  as  he  "  subdues  "  the  animals  in  his 
own  nature  be  will  cease  to  "kill,"  and  the 
cruel  thoughts  emanating  from  him  will  cease 
giving  forth  to  incarnate  themselves  in  those 
animals.  There  will  be  a  "kingdom  of  hea- 
ven "  within  him  and  a  "  millenium  "  without. 

Let  the  just  work  go  on ;  there  can  be  no 
doabt,  that  as  m.a.n  approaches  the  "Cbrist- 
. likeness"  brutality  will  recede.  The  animals 
will  tiat  overrun  us,  no  :  for  as  the  spiritual  in- 
creases the  natural  decreases.  As  the  Christ 
increases  the  Jesus  (or  natural)  decreases.  The 
day  of  "  restoration  "  comes  when  all  will  see 
where  those  things  belong  and  that  they  are 
not  food  for  us  in  the  false  sense  so  commonly 
entertained.  Let  those  of  ns  who  have  "  Light" 
not  hide  it  under  a  bushel  but  put  it  where 
those  may  read  who  will  and  are  "ready"  for 
the  trath.  All  must  and  willcome  to  it  soire 
time  for  we  are  all  created  equal.  Though  bom 
unequally  in  ihe/lesh,  we  have  onr  inheritance 
of  God  and  after  the  spirU  in  and  not  of  man 
alter  the  flesh. 

Let  us  leave  the  "  Egypt  "  of  bondage  and 
brutality  and  "go  up"  to  Jerusalem  and 
pass  over  (overcome)  the    low    and  inslaving 


are  instances  in  which,  in  spite  of  the  laws  to 
the  contrary,  animals  are  left  more  tiian  two 
days  without  food  or  water.  Hundreds  of  dead, 
dying  and  tnippled  food  animals  are  taken 
from  these  trains  each  month.  It  is  horrible. 
— Keystone  Review. 

Where  are  our  good  friends  of  the  A.  P.  So- 
cieties 7  Can  they  consistently  eat  "  rashent 
of  bacon,"  "matton  chops"  and  beef  steaks  " 
while  this  system  continues? 


CRUELTIES  OF  FLESHEATING. 
Ghastly  abuses  have  been  discovered  in  the 
shipment  of  live  stock.  In  some  cases,  in  the 
long  train.s  from  west  to  east,  ^heep  and  hogs 
have  been  shipped  in  the  same  car.  The  hogs 
becoming  hungry,  attack  the  sheep,  and  when 
the  train  reaches  its  destination  some  of  the 
sheep  are  half  eaten  up  by  the  swine.     There 


DISCUSSING  DOMESTIC  ECONOMY. 
An  interesting  part  of  the  program  of  Chan> 
tauqua  for  1896  will  be  a  conference  under  the 
charge  of  Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing,  the  well 
known  domestic  economist.  The  problem  as 
to  how  the  income  of  the  average  American 
family  can  be  most  wisely  and  economically- 
utilized  for  shelter,  food,  dress,  decoration,  edu- 
cation, etc.,  will  be  discussed  by  such  author- 
ities as  Mrs.  Jenness  Miller,  Miss  Anna  Bar- 
rows, Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing  and  others.  We 
have  no  doubt  these  ladies  will  advise  a  ^vdl 
selected  vegetarian  dietary  as  conducive  to 
economy. 


Oar  Apple  Blossom  page  give  ns  the  pic- 
tures of  two  talented  little  girls  who  give 
good  promise  of  usefulness.  They  have  begun 
early  ia  life.  We  invite  our  friends  to  give 
encouragement  to  this  department  of  our  work. 
When  we  gain  the  children  we  have  gained 
the  victory.  We  have  thS  picture  of  a  whole 
family  in  Washington,  but  have  not  yet  re- 
ceived the  particulars. 

The  Chicago  Vegetarian  Society  intend  to 
have  a  banquet  on  Thanksgiving  Day,  1896. 
Could  we  not  have  a  special  gathering  or 
Convention  of  Vegetarians  in  Chicago  about 
that  time?  Let  us  hear  from  all  our  friends 
on  the  subject,  so  we  can  ascertain  how  many 
would  come  to  the  Convention.  It  "  onld 
help  the  Banquet  and  the  Banquet  would 
help  it. 

THE  SHAKERS. 
•  *  Few,  I  said  before,  eat  meat ;  and  I  was 
assured  that  a  complete  and  a  long  continued 
experience  had  proved  to  them  that  people 
maintain  their  health  and  .strength  fully  with- 
out meat. — Charles  Nordhoff. 

June, 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  )1om^  apd  0arde9 


A  SILVER  WEDDING.  , 
There  was  recently  celebrated  in  Philadel- 
phia the  35tli  anniveniary  of  the  marriage  of 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Samson  Cariss.  There  was  a 
houseful  of  guests  and  a  collection  of  presents, 
mostly  silver,  which  showed  the  esteem  and 
affection  which  the  couple  enjoy  among 
tlieir  friends.  Mr.  Cariss  is  organist  ofthc 
Bible  Christian  Church  and  is  a  dne  specimen 
of  a  life-long  Vegetarian.  Mrs.  Cariss  knows 
well  how  to  prepare  a  vegetarian  dinner  and 
their  hospitality  is  proverbial.  Among  the 
congratulations  the  following  was  lead  to 
the  assembled  guests  and  cordially  responded 
to: 


1S71 


1  It  wu  ■  merrr  tine  I 

I  Ttan   aj  the  montlu  uid  jtmia  rolled  on 

i  Both  joys  and  tonowt  bave  (sine  ud  gone 

i  wltb  mualc'*  soothing  cblme ) 

r  Snonsti  of  cootrsst  In  this  man  nod  wile 

1  To  gl*e  lo  each  sabition  and  some  sltlfe 


(■cell 


■  voTks  of  kindne 


Throi 


1  Until  * 

p  Vesm  in  which  Uicy  haw  kept  »  all  alive 

I  Willi  nvslc's  cheer '. 

I  And  nov  we'll  have  asaln  a  merry   lime 

I  To  celebraie  with  music  and  with  rhyme 

I  Remembering  wisdom's  peaceful  waya 

I  Will  lead  to  many  happy  days 

I  Loire's  music  ever  near 

;  Beadiing  life's  golden  year! 


Thee  may  well  imagine  the  feeling  ofgrat- 
itude  I  experienced  on  receiving  your  deal-  lit- 
tle paper.  Food,  Houb  and  Garden,  not  so 
much  for  myself  as  for  fallen  and  suffering  hu- 
manity. It  is  great  company  for  me  as  I  am 
the  only  vegetarian  in  this  place,  but  the  peo- 
ple can  see  that  I  f:an  stand  more  tlian  the 
meat  eatcra  and  if  I  could  get  a  few  boarders 
or  patients  to  take  treatment  I  tliinlc  I  could 
show  to  the  world  that  the  many  diseases  pre- 
valent throngliout  our  land  are  the  conse- 
quences of  a  violation  of  God's  laws.--  Susan 
G.  Baily.  West  Grove,  Pa. 


WATER  FOR  HEALTH. 
As  one  of  the  mcst  valuable  of  the  solvents, 
water  enters  into  the  blood  and  other  liquids, 
making  the  entire  round  of  the  system  in  a 
very  brief  [teriod,  coming  into  contact  and  dis- 
solving the  effete  matters,  which  are  thrown 
off  by  the  decaying  parts  of  the  body,  as  nse- 
lese  and  putrescent  of&l..to  be  thrown  off  by 
perspiration  and  by  the  general  excrctories, 
doing  more  in  the  matter  of  renovating  the 
body  than  all  of  the  -blood  purifiers"  ever  pro- 
duced. While  there  is  a  constant  tendency  to- 
ward the  accumulations  of  irritating  deposits, 
free  drinking  of  water  prevents  an  excess, 
proving  a  very  important  means  of  the  pres- 
ervation of  the  health.  At  no  time  is  this 
more  efficacious  than  when  the  stomach  is 
empty,  as  early  in  the  morning  and  at  night, 
when  there  is  generally  an  accumnlation  of 
mucus  on  the  membrane,  interfering  with  the 
oozing  out  of  the  gastric  jnice,  the  water,  par- 
ticularly if  taken  quite  warm,  a  half  hour  be- 
fore the  m^ls,  dissolving  this  and  passi;ig  it 
into  the  bowels,  materially  improving  the  di- 
gestion of  the  following  meals. — Phraialogical 


\Vhile  we  have  had  the  pleasure  of  receiving 
many  congratulatory  and  com|iUm°ntary  let- 
ters from  friends,  and  have  also  received  num* 
erous  accessions  to  our  subscription  list,  and 
our  friends  are  generally  seeing  the  necessity 
of  exerting  themselves  to  secure  the  perman- 
ency of  our  publication  :  the  actual  amount 
received  during  the  montli  is  not  equal  to  our 
expences.  But  in  commencing  our  expences 
are  greater  than  they  are  likely  to  be  in  the  fu- 
ture. We  especially  urge  our  friends  to  avail 
themselves  of  our  liberal  ofier  of  4  copies  a 
year  for  $1.00.  It  is  only  by  getting  a  very 
large  number  of  these  $1.00  subscriptions  that 
the  cost  of  printing  them  can  be  met. . ,  We  do 
not  believe  there  is  a  vegetarian  in  t:ii«  conn- 
try  who  cannot  afford  to  contribute  $1.00  a 
year  towards  the  distribution  of  his  own  pub- 
lication but  as  some  do  not  think  they  can, 
others  who  are  able  to  affoid  it,  will  oblige  by 
doing  more.  Blanks  for  Club  subscriptions 
can  be  bad  on  application. 

»3 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  )lom^  ai^  Qarde9 


FRUIT   AS    FOOD   &  MEDICINE. 


Bv  Hbs.  Geo.  A.  Fass. 


The  saying  • '  Tell  one  what  you  eat  and  I 
will  tell  yon  what  you  are,"  while  something 
of  an  exaggeration,  has  in  it  an  element  of 
tmtli.  This  question  of  food  is  one  upon 
which  people  differ  more  widely  than  any 
other  onless  it  be  upon  religion.  Theie  are 
almost  as  many  opinions  as  there  are  indi- 
viduals. We  have  those  of  strong  digestion 
who  have  never  felt  the  pangs  of  an  outraged 
stomach,  and  who  eat  whatever  is  set  before 
tbem  asking  no  questions.  We  also  have 
those  who  have  risen  to  such  heights  that  to 
take  any  thought  of  what  we  shall  eat  except 
what  is  absolutely  necessary  to  sustain  life, 
seems  an  act  of  grossness.  I  think  both  of 
these  classes  are  laboring  under  a  mistaken 
idea  lor  the  food  we  eat  has  an  incalculable 
e^ct  upon  our  whole  life,  and  requires  much 
more  thought  than  is  given  to  it  by  the 
ordinary  woman.  Indeed,  now  it  is  recog- 
nized as  one  of  the  sciences  and  is  taught  in 
almost  all  our  colleges  and  universities.  One 
writer  has  said  :  "Go  into  a  factory-hands' 
boarding  house,  or  a  sailor's  mess-room,  or 
a  rongh  farm  kitchen  and  there  study  the 
meaning  of  the  hour  to  those  congregated  to 
feed.  Observe  their  manners,  their  faces, 
the  texture  of  their  skin,  even  their  flesh 
and  bone  structure,  then  saunter  into  the 
cafe'  of  one  of  the  high  class  restaurants, 
and  compare  the  manners,  faces,  skins,  flesh 
and  structure  of  these  people  with  the  fonner. 
But  out  food  does  not  afiect  merely  our 
physical  nature  but  it  leaves  its  mark  upon 
our  mental  nature,  changes  the  whole  tenor 
ot  our  lives  and  makes  the  remembrance 
of  OS  pleasant  or  otherwise  long  after  we  have 
passed  away.  No  matter  how  much  we  may 
admire  Carlyle,  and  the  rich  heritage  he  has 
left  us,  who  of  OS  does  not  remember  first  of 
all,  whenever  his  name  is  mentioned,  that 
sour,  crabbed  disposition  which  made  him 
a  terror  to  all  his  friends — the  result  of 
chronic  indigestion.     It  is  a  well  established 


fact  that  our  diet  consists  not  only  of  those 
elements  uecessary  to  sustain  life,  but  that 
we  need  a  variety  and  fiequent  change  in  our 
food.  The  value  of  fruits  as  a  food  is  far 
from  being  generally  understood.  Grown 
in  every  quarter  of  the  globe,  ripening  in 
successiou  from  early  spring  till  winter,  they 
contain,  if  we  include  nuts,  every  element 
needed  for  the  nourishment  of  the  human 
body.  I  shall  not  enter  into  a  description 
of  the  processes  of  digestion  exceptto  remind 
yon  that  acids  form  an  important  part  of  the 
gastric  juices  of  which  fruits  furnish  an 
abundant  suppK'.  "Nature  is  a  better  chem- 
ist than  man,  and  she  has  placed  within 
envelopes  of  diSerent  forma  those  exquisite 
acids  and  sweet  flavors  and  essences,  which 
in  some  subtle  way  sustain  every  portion  of 
the  system  from  the  hair  of  the  head  to  the 
nails  of  the  hands  and  feet.  At  this  time  of 
the  year,  when  our  blood  has  become  slug- 
gish from  too  little  exercise  and  over  heated 
rooms  and  we  complain  of  the  lassitude 
which  we  ascribe  to  the  spring  time,  we  are 
apt  to  think  of  the  delights  we  would  experi- 
ence if  we  were  only  in  some  tropical  country 
when  the  trees  were  bending  with  the  weight 
of  delicious  fruits,  forgetting  that  we  have  in 
our  own  land,  at  a  veiy  moderate  expense, 
one  of  the  most  healthful  and  nourishiug 
of  fruits  in  the  world— the  apple.  It  ranks 
in  value  among  fruits  equal  to  wheat  among 
cereals.  It  contains  sugar,  the  analic  and 
tannic  acids,  gluten,  pectin  febrin,  starch, 
traces  of  free  salts,  and  water.  In  cases  of 
poor  digestion  it  should  be  eaten  alone  or 
with  bread,  and  not  with  meats  or  vegetables. 
Recipes  are  given  for  preparing  apples  in  a 
hundred  different  ways. 

"  In  respect  to  food  values  scientists  rank 
grapes  next  to  apples.  Schlickeysen  terms 
the  one  the  king  of  fruits,  the  otherthe  queen. 
It  is  only  necessary  to  allude  to  the  use 
made  of  the  cocoanut,  the  date,  the  fig,  the 
pineapple  and  the  bread  fruit  by  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  zones  where  these  fruits  fiourish. 
In  the  south  of  Europe  figs  constitute  a  large 
part  of  the  diet  five  months  out  of  twelve. 
Arabs  when  crossing  the  desert  live  for 
weeks  upon  a  I'.andfnl  of  dates  a  day. 

June, 


d  by  Google 


pood.  |lom^  apd  (jardep 


Dr.  Seegar,  one  of  the  most  progressive 
pbysidanH  of  tfae  age,  says:  "It  is  an  ob- 
servation not  less  important  than  tme  that 
attending  merely  to  a  proper  diet,  a  phleg- 
matic temperament  may  be  changed  to  a 
sanguine  one,  and  the  hypochondriac  may 
be  so  altered  as  to  be  a  useful  member  of 
society.  The  eating  of  fruit  at  the  beginning 
of  a  meal,  while  it  presents  a  bland  or  con- 
genial material  to  the  delicate  lining  of  the 
alimentary  organ,  is  also  a  safeguard  against 
the  overfeeding  which  comes  from  the  reserv- 
ing the  frnit  until  the  last.  He  also  says: 
"If  our  bilious  friends  would  throw  aside 
their  liver  pills  and  stady  nature  in  her  more 
smiling  and  bounteous  moods,  would  allow 
her  to  tempt  them  as  Eve  tempted  old  Adam 
with  the  apple,  they  would  by  pleasant, 
natural  and  healthful  methods  free  themselves 
from  the  thick  bilious  impurities  which  make 
them  a  nuisance  to  themselves  as  well  as  to 
those  around  them.  Bilionsness  is  one  of 
those  demons  that  can  be  pretty  well  exor- 
cised by  proper  diet  and  due  amount  of 
exercise.  Acid  fruits  are  of  the  greatest 
service  in  inflammatory  disorders.  Persons 
of  a  thick  and  languid  blood  cannot  eat 
anything  more  conducive  to  health  than  fruit 
as  it  possesses  the  property  of  attenuating  and 
putting  such   blood  in  motion." 

Dr.  Holbrook  bays:  "There  is  scarcely 
a  disease  to  winch  the  human  family  is  heir, 
but  the  snSering  therefrom  would  be  greatly 
i^lieved  or  entirely  prevented  by  the  free  use 
of  fruits  which  are  now  sogenerally  forbidden." 
He  relates  that  during  the  war  many  of  the 
troops  who  were  sick  with  diarrhea  and 
dysentary  cured  their  diseases  by  stealing 
from  the  hospitals  into  the  fields  and  eating 
fruits,  especially  blackberries.  Children 
snffering  from  cholera  infantum  he  had  sent 
to  the  peach  orchards  of  Delaware  with  the 
most  gratifying  results.  He  concludes : 
"There  is  scarcely  a  disease  accompanied 
by  fever  but  grapes  and  bananas  may  be. 
freely  given  to  the  patient.  Grapes  promote 
secretion,  increase  nutrition,  improve  the 
action  of  the  liver,  kidneys,  and  bowels,  and 
add   to  health." 

1896 


The  grape  cure  is  now  used  successfully 
for  consumption,  catarrh,  affections  of  the 
liver,  scrofula,  asthma  and  diseases  of  the 
kidneys.  The  Lancet  records  a  most  remark- 
able fruit  cure.  The  case  was  that  of  a 
child  three  years  old  who  for  half  of  his 
life  had  been  ill.  He  was  covered  from  head 
to  foot  with  ulcers,  blind  and  in  constant 
pain.  Eight  eminent  medical  men  had 
pronounced  him  incurable,  when  the  ninth 
determined  as  a  last  resort  to  try  the  virtue 
of  fruit.  His  diet  consisted  of  fruits  either 
in  the  natural  state  or  cooked  and  sugar  or 
honey.  In  three  days  the  ulcers  showed 
signs  of  improvement,  soon  he  began  to 
open  liis  eyes,  the  first  time  in  more  than  a 
year  and  in  three  months  aud  a  half  he  was 
pronounced  cured  wilh  a  smooth  skin  and 
restored  features.  During  the  18th  century 
the  scurvy  had  more  terrors  for  the  sailor 
than  all  the  sufferings  induced  by  the  cold 
of  the  Arctic  regions,  but  a  sure  remedy 
was  found  in  the  juice  of  the  lemon  and  lime 
and  now  by  act  of  Parliament  no  ship  can 
leave  England  for  the  frozen  north  without 
a  supply  of  lime  or  lemon  juice.  This  act 
provides  ibr  a  supply  of  one  ounce  per  day 
to  each  man  but  it  is  now  thought  that  an 
ounce  and  a  half  produces  better  results.  It 
is  a  curious  fact  that  a  sailor  sufiering  with 
scurvy,  though  supplied  bountifully  with 
food  from  the  ship's  stores  presents  all  the 
'  symptoms  of  starvation  and  in  addition  to 
these  profuse  bleeding  of  the  gums.  And  so 
we  might  go  on  almost  indefinately  through 
the  long  list  of   diseases  and  fmits. 

Tomatoes  are  used  for  boils  and  carbuncles. 
Pineapple  for  diphtheria  and  throat  troubles. 
Strawberries  have  been  known  to  cure  malarial 
fever,  and  finally,  ladies  if  you  would  be 
healthy  and  beaatiful,  of  fair  complexion 
and  bright  eyes,  eat  plenty  of  fruit. — Grand 
Haven    Courier  /oiirmtl,  Mich. 


Mr.  R.  is  a  bright,  young  man.  He  writer 
me  he  is  thinking  of  giving  up  the  usq  ol 
flesh  food  altogether.  A  year's  subscription 
to  F,,  H.  ft  G.  hns  had  a  good  effect, — Rich- 
ard Post,  SI.  Johns,  Mich. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  \\om^  ai^d  Qardei^ 


pood,  J^om^  apd  (jardei} 


PHILADELPHIA.  JUNE, 

1896. 

Ainerka,    PoWIshen, 

KDt     to  JIO 

Chntnot  SL 

RET.    HHNRY     S 

CLDUB,    Editor. 

SubKTiptloa 

li.™  ■   yar. 

twelve  liuctti 

on.  1  doltor. 

ioB.    10     C«IU, 

The  Home  and  Garden  Departments  furnish 
useful  suggestions. 


Onr  present  number  opens  with  a  sketch  of 
one  of  the  most  earnest  and  ablest  men  in  Eu- 
rope, Leo  Tolstoi. 


Miss  Caroline  Kofel  was  re-elected  president 
of  the  North  side  Branch,  Vegetarian  Society 
of  Chicago,   May  i8tb. 


Mrs.  Carrica  Le  Favre  is  lecturing  on  1 
subjects  relating  to  health,  beauty  and  culture. 
Her  address  is  999  P.  O. .  Chicago. 


Drs.  Pfiefier  and  Brown  both  members  of 
the  Chicago  V.  S,  have  incorporated  a  Veg- 
etarian Humane  Society  in  Chicago. 


The  notes  on  New  Mexico  by  Mrs.  Howland 
will  KJve  valuable  iuformatioti  to  those  who 
are  contemplatiug  removal  to  a  delightful  cli- 
mate. 


Mr.  Oldfield  editor  of  the  Vfgelariitn,  Lon- 
don, writes  an  interesting  account  of  the  situa- 
tion in  England  and  of  the  Vegetarian  Hos- 
pital. 


The  paper  by  Mrs.  Farr  of  Michigan  on  Fruit 
i-.s  Food  and  Medicine  will  be  read  with  inter- 
est and  profit.  We  hoped  to  present  a  portrait 
of  Mrs.  Farr  but  the  promised  photo  did  not 
reach  ns  in  time. 


The  Vegetarian  idea  isgradually  permeating 
good  society  in  this  country.  It  is  no  longer 
necessary  to  apologise  for  not  eating  flesh 
meat:  the  apology  is  made  now  for  having  it 
on  the  table  when  well  known  vegetariHiis  are 
present.     It  is  a  frequent  remark  :    "  We  eat 


very  little  meat  now,  and  might  s 
it  up  altogether." 


Dr.  Stockham  lectures  before  the  Chic^^o 
Vegetarian  Society,  June  2nd,  at  the  Grand 
Northern  Hotel,  on  "Artistic  Living."  ' 
is  barely  possible,"  says  Mr.  Snyder  in  hitf 
letter,  "that  Countess  Wachmeister  will 
speak  also." 


We  do  not  publish  list  of  receipts  as  im- 
proper use  was  made  of  it  to  the  annoyance  of 
our  friends  by  applying  to  them  for  aid  to 
other  societies.  We  hope  to  publish  a  society 
report  once  a  year  for  members  and  donors 
only. 


We  are 'glad  to  see  that  water  is  becoming 
better  appreciated.  Some  hygienists  neem  to 
think  it  is  best  not  to  drink  even  ivater,  but 
they  should  remember  how  necessary  water  is 
to  cleanse  the  outer  skin  and  it  is  no  Irss  -^o 
to  keep  clean  the  mucus  membrane  within. 


The  portrait  of  Count  Tolstoi  which  forms 
the  frontispiece  of  a  few  copies  of  this  pres- 
ent number  was  kindly  sent  us  by  Mr.  Oldfield 
through  Miss  May  Yatea;  who  made  up  the 
package  of  engravings  and  electros.  It  seems 
to  be  the  reproduction  of  an  oil  painting  of  the 
distinguished  Russian.  The  conclusions  of 
Count  Tolstoi  show  that  truth  produces  sim- 
ilar convictions  as  to  life  and  duty  wherever  it 
is  received  even  by  persons  isolated  from  each 
other. 


Id  some  of  our  issue  this  month  we  pub- 
lish a  portrait  of  Count  Tolstoi  and  in  the  bal- 
ance a  portrait  of  A.  H.  Snyder.  The  reason  for 
this  is  the  electrotype  plate  of  Count  To^ 
stoi's  portrait,  received  from  England,  sudden- 
ly came  ofi*  the  block  while  the  press  was  run- 
ning and  was  so  badly  bent  it  could  not  be 
mended.  Those  who  get  the  picture  of  Mr. 
Snyder  and  still  desire  a  picture  of  Tolstoi  can 
please  write  us  and  we  will  send  the  other  copy 
if  the  supply  be  not  cxliauste<l.  We  may  repeat 
the  picture  of  Mr.  Snyder,  if  desired,  at  n  fu- 
ture time  so  that  all  our  subscribers  will  girt  it 
and  we  are  expecting  a  sketch  of  his  life  from 
the  pen  of  one  of  his  many  Chicago  friendh. 
He  will  not  wri'c  about  himself 


1 896 


d  by  Google 


pood,  ^om^  ai^d  Qardep 


THE    LIBRARY. 

ThK  Science  of  Nutrition — Edward  Atkinson, 
■  LL.  D.,  Ph.  D.  148  pp. 

This  treatise  npoa  the  science  of  nntrition 
is  a  carefdl  compilation  of  what  has  been 
discovered  in  i»;ard  to  the  nutrition  of  vari- 
ous articles  of  food,  and  tbe  nutritive  value 
of  food  materials,  with  numerous  recipes. 
It  is  an  illustration  of  the  value  of  the  Alladin 
Oven  which  is  a  contrivance  by  which  a 
simple  oil  lamp  sujiplies  sufficient  heat  to 
bake  a  good  sized  batch  of  bread  or  cook 
a  dinner  for  a  large  family.  It  seems  to  be 
the  highest  achievement  of  science  fur  eco- 
nomically cooking  or  preparing  food  for 
digestion. 


Tracts  entitled:  "Is  Flesh  Rating  a  Viola- 
tion of  Apostolic  Teaching  ?"  "A  Caaseof 
the  Failnre  of  Christian  Missions  in  the 
East":  "TheComing  Revolution  in  Diet." 
These  can  be  supplied  in  this  country  at  5  cts. 
each  by  mail.  They  are  very  neat  and  useftil 
as  introdnctoty  Tracts  on  VegetMrian  living. 
We  wish  this  new  Order  abundant  success. 


Cancer  :  How  It  Is  Caused  and  How  to  Pre- 
vent It. — 10  cts.  V.  S.  A.,  310  Chestnut 
St..  Philadelphia. 

This  is  ft  pamphlet  written  by  Dr.  H. 
Maxwell  of  England.  He  gives  it  as  the  re- 
sult of  50  years'  investigation  and  experience 
that  ;cancer  is  chiefly  caused  by  eating  too 
much  meat  and  especially  pork. 


Cold  Dishes  for  Hot  Weather. — Ysaguirre  & 
Marca.  New  York:  Harper  &  Bros. ,  1^6. 
Tliis  is  a  timely  book  for  summer  use.  AI- 
though  much  space  is  given  to  the  preparation 
of  flesh,  many  of  the  recipes  for  vegetables, 
salads,  creams,  cakes,  paddings  &c.  will  be 
found  very  serviceable  to  our  readers.  We 
will  give  sample  recipes  in  our  HouB 
Departmbnt  next  issue. 


A  New  Departure  in    Cooking. — Economical 

Recipes. — 5  cts. 

This  is  nn  elegant  little  Cookery  published 
to  give  instruction  in  the  use  of  Diamond 
Butter  Oil.  A  few  of  the  receipts  relate  to 
oysters  and  fish  and  steaks,  but  nearly  all 
give  directions  for  cooking  vegetables,  pastrj-, 
cakes,  etc,  by  the  use  of  the  Butter  Oil,  ex- 
cluding the  use  of  slaughter  house  and  dairy 
products. 


The  Herald    of  tbe    Golden     Age:     offlciaJ 
o^an   of  the   Order   of  the  Golden  Age. 
Monthly  75  cts.  a  year. 
Tliis  is    a  most  excellent  publication    dc- 
Toted  to  the  highest  aspects  of  the  Vegetarian 
Question.     The  most  advanced  of  tlie  Veg- 
etarian   publications  of  England.     The  Order 
of  the  Golden  Age  is  a  new  organization   "to 
promote  the  doing  of  God's  will  on  earth,  in 
all    things    both    physical   and    spiritual  and 
to  advocate  a  bloodless    and    natural  diet." 
The  new  Order    with  headquarters  at  15  St. 
James'  Road,  Exeter,  England,  also  publishes 


THE  NEW  SERIES  F.,  H.  and  G. 

I  was  glad  to  receive  May  F.  H.  ft  G.  I 
think  the  paper  looks  better  in  its  new  form. 
—Albert  H,  Snyder,  Pres.  of  the  Chicago 
Vegetarian  Society,  Central. 

I  was  very  glad  to  receive  the  first  number 
of  the  new  series  of  F.,  H.  &  G. 

"He  who  renovates  the  people  reaches  the 
border  of  extreme  virtue." — Confiidous. 

May  your  valuable  paper  long  survive  and 
do  good  service  for  humanity. — Ernest  Ebel, 
Denver,  Col. 

I  am  pleased  to  welcome  Food  Hoke  ft  Gar- 
den once  more.— Jane  D.  Churchill,  283  High- 
land Ave.,  Somerville,  Mass. 

My  friends  at  Springfield  each  received 
the  May  number  and  were  well  pleased.  I 
trust  they  will  now  be  continued.— J.  R. 
Jackson,  i3io  G  St.,  N.  W.  Washington, 
D.  C. 

I  am  very  glad  to  see  again  our  liear  Food 
Home  Garden.  I  never  thought  it  was  to 
cease  to  exist  alt(^etber.  The  feeble  child  witl 
grow  to  be  a  strong  man  yet.  It  is  pleasant 
for  me  to  see  the  Vegetarian  cause  and  the 
Peace  cause  go  hand  in  band  as  they  are  nat- 
urally twin  sisters.  Wishing  to  yon  and  your 
noble  purposes  all  blessings  from  heaven  above. 
— Fr.  Louis  Paroli,  New  Orleans,  La. 

I  have  just  received  F.  H.  ft  G.  and  am  so 
delighted  with  its  reappearance  that  I  must  at 
once  write  yon  my  congratulations  I  am  so 
glad  !  so  glad  !  !  And  I  pray  that  blessings 
and  prosperity  may  attend  it  in  an  ever  in- 
creasing degree,  and  that  our  faithful  friend 
the  editor  may  have  the  Heavenly  Father  ever 
close  to  liim  supporting  him  with  peece, 
plenty,  prosperitj^ — Carrica  L«  Favre,  P.  O., 
Box  999,  Chicago.  111. 

We  want  a  few  Faradays,  Watts,  Stephen - 
sons  and  Cobdens  to  devote  their  genius  and 
industry  to  the  great  food  question. — Merrie 
England. 

27 


d  by  Google 


$.iffile  l^lossom  ^^ottetg  i 


o 


TWO  CHICAGO    APPLE  BLOSSOMS, 
UR  friend  Albert  H,  Snyder,  Ptcp.  of  the  Chicago  V.  S.,  has 
I  been   assisting    the    MandeviUe    cbildren    in    their    public 
'  efforts.     He  writes  of  them  :     Margkry  Mandeville    is  a 
me  little  maid  of  five,   cneofthe   most  charming  and 
one  of  the  most  gifted  children  now  before  tlie    public.     By  those 
who  have    heard   her,  her  appearance  is  always  greeted  with  the 
most   rapturous  applause,  while  those  who  have   not,  are   equally 
entbuaiastic  for  an  encore.     The  intelligence  displayed  in  the  ren- 
dition of  her  selections  is  certainly  exceptional.    Her  training  has 
been  so  fine  there  seeuis  no  art — only  the  most   unaffected,   swe^t 
nature. 

Enola  Mandeville  is  a  very  graceful  little  dancer  of  eleven 
years  also  an  elocutionist  of  unusual  ability.  Her  selections  are 
given  with  a  taste  and  an  understanding  of  the  subject  that  bring 
out  in  delicate  shading  the  thoughts  of  tiie  author,  and  in  a  manner 
exceedingly  pleasing  to  her  hearers.  Her  repertoire  includes  the 
grave  and  the  gay.  lu  a  quiet,  thoughtful  part,  or  in  the  life  and 
sparkle  of  her  humorous  pieces  she  is  equally  entertaining. 

The  Mandeville  Children,  who  stand  preeminent  in  the  ranks  of 
infant  phenomena,  are  practtcaHy  Vegetarians.  Their  mother  long 
ago  became  convinced  that  excessive  tneat-eating  was  the  cause  of 
many  of  the  ailments  to  which  humanity  is  heir  and  that  without 
being  clean  and  pure  physically  one  could  not  possess  a  healthy 
mentality.  She  attributes  her  daughters'  precocity  largely  to  their 
habits  of  diet.  She  said,  in  an  interview,  that  she  does  not  abso- 
lutely forbid  her  children  to  eat  meat.  She  believes  that  reforms 
of  that  kind  should  come  from  within.  And  the  children,  when 
eating  at  the  tables  of  strangers,     as 

Ihey  frequently  are  obliged  to  do  in  traveling  about,    refuse  to 

touch  fleshmeat,  not  because  it  is  forbidden  them,   but  because 

[hey  have  been  led  to  see  that  they  are  better  off  without  it.     They 

drink  neither  tea  or  coffee.     They   are  both  perfect   "pictures  of 

health".     Contrary  to  common  belief  their  work  is  not  tiresome 

and  they  thoroughly  enjoy  it.     Their  home  is  in  one  of  Chicago's 

suburbs.       At    present  they  are    having    a    taste    of  Canadian 

summer. 

A  RECITATION  FOR    OUR  APPLE  BLOSSOMS. 

No  a«ki  tbat  nnKC  the  vallcr  fm 

TiPKKt  by  that  power  IbHt  pities  me 

1  learn    to  plly  Ihem. 
BdI  b-om  the  moimUiii's  graMT  aide 

A  gttilllrsi  t«M  I    bring : 


c   loo8;.-Co& 


lilk. 


The  above  is  from  Goldsmith's  "  Hermit"  which  contains  a 
beautiful  little  Romance:  A  yonng  man  rejected  by  his  sweet- 
heart became  despondent  and  retired  to  a  cave  in  the  coniitry 
conclu<\ing  to  live  a  hertfit's  life.  Tlie  girl  who  had  rejected 
him  repented  and  assuming  male  attire  wandered  away  and  at 
last  found  the  hermit  who  did  not  recognize  her  but  supposed 
her  to  be  a  young  man  lite  himself  rejected  and  forlorn.  He 
invHed  his  unknown  to  share  his  humble  hospitality  laciting  the 
above  as  an  Qfcplanation  of  his  simple  fare.  Enoi. 

After  a  while  recOTnition  tnpk  place  and   his  gnest 

stands  conf(E<fd  a  maid  in  all  her  dieinn. 

The  mutual  explanation  which  followed  proved  then  both  tme  to  each  other. 


d  by  Google 


pood,  jjiom^  aipd  (^ard^^ 


CoIobIeIbb    Heir    Mexlo 


ThlB  IB  a  splendid  country  tor 
grapes,  and  th«  sale  la  IncreasliiK 
etu^h  year.  Also  pears,  apples,  apri- 
cots and  peacheB.  Alfalfa  Is  tbe 
great  crop  here.  It  brings  {15  a  ton. 
It  can  be  grown  on  Ibe  ground  until 
tbe  fruit  trees  come  Into  bearing. 
It  yields  four  crops  every  summer  if 
Irrigated.  Personally,  I  would  like 
to    see    a    -vecetarlan    colony    bere. 

But,  ob,  the  climate  la  bo  beautl' 
tul!  One  thinks  of  tbe  song  of  the 
Irish  emigmnt:  "Tbe  sun  shines 
always  there."  The  winters  are 
never  cold  (below  freezing).  The 
nights  are  cool,  but  the  day  gets 
warm    towards    noon. 

We  live  out-dooTs  a  great  deal  and 
never  need  more  than  a  blanket 
shawl  and  no  head  covering,  unless 
we  go  away  from  home. 

The  summers  are  never  hot  nor 
debilitating  like  they  are  In  the 
North.  The  thermometer  ts  high  In 
the  sunshine,  and  often  100  degrees 
In  the  shade,  but  there  \b  always  a 
breeze.  The  altitude  is  high  and 
the  atmosphere  very  pure.  Sun- 
stroke  1b  unknown   here. 

The  adobe' bouses  are  very  cool. 
The  nlgbtB  are  always  cool,  and  if 
one  cares  tor  a  cool  room  all  day 
It  can  be  secured  by  shutting  It  up 
before  the  air  outside  gets  warm. 

There  are  plenty  of  mocking  birds, 
larks  and  other  pretty  birds.  Quail 
In  abundance,  and  so  pretty;  much 
prettier  than  those  In  the  North. 
'  Wild  flowers  and  beautiful  cacti. 
Mine  are  all  In  flower  now  (May  22). 
I  would  like  to  send  you  some.— Mrs. 
Frances  N.  Howland.  Shalam,  Dona 
Ana  county,  N.  M. 


By   Josiah  Oldfiei.d,    M.  A..  B.   C.   I,.  (Oxi 


*■) 


•"Dr.  J. 
removed  i 
Antonio,  Tex.  He  is  an  old  ac- 
quaintance of  mine.— Mrs.  C.  A. 
Paul.  H.  D.,  Loa  Angeles,  Cat,,  Dr. 
Peebles  Is  a  noted  vegetarian  of 
long  standing,  but  has  not  yel  con- 
nected himself  with  the  V.  S.  A. 


The  world  in  which  we  are  working,  in  the  age  in  which 
we  are  privileged  to  live,  is  beginning  to  long  for 
Vegetarianism. 

Wherever  I  go,  to  town  or  city,  forest,  field  or  wilder- 
ness, I  find  the  impress  that  tlie  work  of  the  last  fifty 
years  of  patient   plodding  has   produced. 

Difference  is  giving  way  to  trust ;  opposition  is  being 
replaced  by  sympathy  ;  ridicule  is  dying  and  cordial  co- 
operation is  rising  in  its  ashes  ! 

Government  is  beginning  to  awaken  to  the  need  for 
stringently  regulating  the  importation  of  diseased  cattle 
and  tbe  sale  of  diseased  meat. 

The  cruelties  of  cattle-ships  have  been  exposed  and  have 
startled  the  world. 

The  rights  of  animals  are  being  recognized  by  anti- 
vivisection  and  anti-cmelty  societies,  and  the  Church 
Catholic  is  beginning  to  voice  the  cry  of  the  prophets  of 
the  past  for  the  millennium  wherein  they  shall  not  hurt 
nor  destroy  and  wherein  the  evolutionary  progress  of  the 
fittest  shall  have  its  complete  fulfilment.  Evolution, 
in  which  it  is  manifest  that  the  carnivora  must  adapt 
himself  to  his  environment  or  become  extinct  or  to  par- 
aphrase the  wordii  of  the  prophet  the  lion  shall  eat  straw 
like  the  ox.  or  the  place  of  lions  will  become  extinct. 

Your  readers  will  like  to  hear  of  the  opening  of  a  Veg- 
etarian Hospital  in  England.  I  enclo.ie  yon  a  short 
account  of  it  from  the  pages  of  the  Vegetarian  Messenger, 
and  would  add  that  I  shall  gladly  welcome  visitors  from 
across  the  ocean  who  may  be  visiting  England  and  who 
would  tike  to  see  the  special  work  that  is  being  done  in 
this  pioneer   Hospital  of  the  old  country. 

THE  VEGETARIAN   HOSPITAL. 

From  the  article  referred  to  by  Mr.  Oldfield,  piililished 
in  the  Vegetarian  Messenger,  we  learn  that  the  treatment  is 
almost  wholly  dietetic  aided  by  massage  and  hydropathy. 
That  medicines  can  be  had  when  prescribed  by  the  visiting 
physician  but  have  to  be  paid  for  aa  extras,  not  being  in 
tbe  regular  practice  of  the  hospital.  That  Prof  Mayor  has 
visited  the  hospital  and  preached  in  the  chapel.  That  he 
wrote  in  the  visitors  book:  "Glad  to  have  seen  a  hos- 
pital where  the  physician's  aim  is  to  make  himself 
nnnecessary  by  teaching  the  laws  of  health."  That  an 
endowment  providing  for  the  purpose  of  treating  a  partic- 
ular class  of  patients  for  three  years,  free  of  charge,  has 
been  provided  by  the  President,  Mr,  A.  F.  Hills,  but  the 
aim  is  to  make  the  institution  self-supporlintr.  That 
the  piospects  of  success  are  of  the  brightest  character. 
That  over  120  patients  have  already   been  treated. 


db,  Google 


TO  BECOME  BEAUTIFUL. 
Eat  fruit  for  breakfast.  Eat  fniit  for 
luncheon.  Avoid  pastry.  Shun  muffins  and 
crumpets  and  buttered  toast.  Eat  whole- 
meal bread.  Decline  potatoes  if  they  are 
served  more  than  once  a  day.  Do  not  drink 
tea  or  coffee.  Walk  four  miles  every  day. 
Take  a  bath  every  day.  Wash  the  face 
every  night  in  warm  water.  Sleep  eight 
hours  a  night. — -London  Answers. 

A  Waiter  Girl's   Wit. 

A  pretty  waiter  girl,  a  Vegetarian,  en- 
gaged in  waiting  on  gentlemen  in  a  first  class 
restaurant,  was  questioned  by  one  of  the 
guests  as  to  her  name  which  she  reluctantly 
admitted  was  "Pearl". 

"Ah,"  said  her  interrogator,  "  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price  1  presume." 

"  I  am  afraid  not"  she  said  modestly  :  "  If 
you  were  to  see  how  gentlemen  eat  here  you 
would  rather  conclude  I  was  the  Pearl  that 
was  cast  before  swine," 

RESULT  OF  A  MEAT  DIET. 
Mrs.  Hart,  who  has  covered  the  globe  with 
her  nol'ebook,  declares  the  English  people  to 
be  the  most  garrulous  and  quarrelsome  of  any 
she  has  encountered.  She  says  there  is  more 
bickering  and  distemper  in  the  Englishman's 
family  and  more  homes  are  made  unhappy  by 
domestic  squabbles  than  in  any  of  the  other 
nations  she  has  visited.  This  condition  she 
attributes  chiefly  to  the  Anglo-Saxon's 
fondness  of  a  meat  diet.  She  says  the  great 
flesh-eating  people  ate  notably  ill-tempered. 
We  are  only  animals,  and  the  sequence  of 
meat  and  fits,  as  demonstrated  in  the  animal 
kingdom  has  a  significance  in  relation  to  the 
human  animal.  Mrs.  Hatt  has  studied  the 
gentle  Japanese,  the  mild  Mongolian,  and 
other  light-living  races,  which  research  con- 
firms lier  ideas. — Exc/iange. 


MENU    FOR  A  JUNE    DAY. 

BRRAKFAST. 

SUced  Pineapple. 

LcHuce  irilh  MayonniiiK  DremlnB, 


T«ble  Decorgllon— Jack  n 


Whole-wheat   Genu. 


Jar 


RECIPES. 
Celery    Sandwiches. 

Chop  one-fourtli  of  a  cup  of  celery     fine. 

Mix  with  one  hard-boiled  egg  pressed  through 

a  sieve,   and   sufficient   mayonnaise  dressing 

to  moisten  properly. — Table  Talk. 

Quick  Flannel    Cakes. 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  two  eggs,  three-quarters  pint  milk. 
Rub  butter  into  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
and  add  a  little  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  tlic 
eggs  and  add  to  the  milk  ;  then  add  flour  and 
beat  very  hard,  lastly  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
and  bake  on  hot  griddle. 

Whole-wheat   Gems 

Mix  two  cups  of  whole-wheat  flour  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt  and  two  teaspooufuls  of 
sug)>r.  Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  light,  add 
one  cup  of  milk,  beating  all  the  while. 
Add  the  milk  and  eggs  to  the  flour,  beat 
unUl  smooth,  and  add  one  cup  of  Inke-warm 
water.  When  well  beaten,  add  the  irhites 
beaten  toastiff  dry  froth  ;  mix  quickly:  turn 
into  hot  greased  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  twenty-five  minutes. 


d  by  Google 


Hint    Sauce. 
Mix  one  tablespoon fnl  of  sugar  witb   three  of  vinegar 
and  heat  until  dissolved,    but  do   not  allow    it    to  boil. 
Add    a  saltspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  dash  of   black  peppei.- 
Chop  some  mint  very  tine  and  stir  into  the  mixture. 
French    Dressing. 
Put  one-half  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  half  as  niiich 
pepptrr  in  a    bowl.     Dissolve    the  salt  by  stirring  in  three 
tablespoon fu Is  of  olive  oil.     Gradually  stir  in  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.     Be  sure  the   vinegar  and  -  oil  -  are 
thoroughly  mixed  and  serve    immediately. 
Potato  Salad. 
Chop  freshly  boiled  warm   potatoes,  quite  fine..    Cover 
with    the    French     dressing      and     set    aside     for    fnlly 
an  hour,     llien   add  a    tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
for  every  two  potatoes,  and  one  lettuce  leaf  finely  shredded. 
Mix   well  and  again  cover  with  dressing.     Serve  immedi- 
ately   on    leaves  of  tmriy   lettuce. 

JOMBLES. 

One  pound  of  »ugar,  three-fuurtbs  of  a  pound  of  flonr, 
one  pound  of  butter,  seven  eggfl,  one  teaspoonftil  of  bak- 
ing powder.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  '  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  and  add  the  eggs ;  then  the  flour,  nutmeg  anci 
baking  powder.  Form  in  small  cakes  with  the  hand 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Frozen  Cherries. 

Make  a  synip  of  two  cups  of  sugar  and  one  quart  of 
water.  Boil  ten  miuntes.  Take  horn  the  tire  and  add 
one  quart  can  of  preserved  cherries  ;  let  stand  until  cool. 
Then  freeze  same  as  water  ice.  Frozen  strawberries  are 
niade  this  way  with  the  addition  of  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
For  frozen  pineapple  the  juice  of  two  oranges  should  be 
added. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Chill  the  plate,  eggs,  oil  and  even  fork.  Put  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs  in  a  soup  plate.  Add  one-half  teaspoonfnl 
of  salt  and  stir  with  a  silver  fork  until  the  yolks  are  well 
mixed ;  add  the  oil,  drop  by  drop  at  first,  then  add  faster, 
always  stirring.  When  finished  it  should  be  thick  and 
smooth.  Season  with  salt  and  red  pepper,  and  lemon 
juice  if  necessary. 

Tomato  Crbam    Socp. 

Put  one  pint  of  tomatoes  on  to  stew.  Put  one  quart  of 
milk  in  a  double  boiler  with  a  bay  leaf,  a  little  parsley, 
also  a  small  quantityof  mace.  Rub  togetber  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  two  of  flour.  Add  to  the  milk 
when  boiling  and  stir  until  it  thickens.  Add  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  the  tomatoes  and  then  add  the 
boiling  milk.  Add  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  serve 
immediately  without  reheating  to  prevent  curdling, 

iSq6 


'  The    Tlrtnea    of    ABiHirBvi>«- 

Tlie  newapapera  of  thla  country  are 
advocating  vegetarlaniam  piecemeal. 
Tbey  publish  separate  articles  on  the 
virtues  of  various  products  of  ttie 
vegetable  klnKdom.  In  a  long  arti- 
cle' from  the  New  Tork  "Recoraer" 
we  are  Informed  that  asparagus  Is 
the  "queen  of  vegetables. "  "That  It 
is  almost  too  datnty  to  be  claaaed  as 
a  vegetable  with  tumtps,  carroM 
and  potatoes."  That  In  tli<  Unit  of 
Queen  BUzabeth  it  waa  "garden 
eperage,"  with  fta  "soft  and  tender 
Bhoots."  That  the  ■■asparagmi  of  the 
present  day  IB  a  great  Improvement 
upon  that  which  graced  the  table  ol 
the  Virgin  Queen."  "That  the  health, 
fulness  of  asparagus  has  long  been 
established."  That  Ueblg  or  soma 
other  scientist  maintains  that  the 
"alkaloid  in  asparagus  develop) 
form  In  the  human  brain,  bo  thai 
If  you  give  an  artistic  child  enough 
asparagus  he  will  develop  Into  a 
Rafaelle."  But  the  directions  given 
show  that  the  writer  baa  little  con- 
ception' of  the  exquisite  flnvor  and 
real  virtue  of  asparagus  when  pure 
■Dd  DD  HI  lied  «rllb  anltOBl  fl«ti.  lod 
"  slock,"  for  hl«  reclpM  wo-ild  de- 
stroy thla  by  his  horrid  mlilur*  nf 
the  alaughter  house  products  or  the 
disgusting  odora  of  the  flsh  stalls. 
When  will  It  be  understood  that 
each  vegetable  and  fruit  has  Its 
own  delidoua  flavor  and  virtue, 
which  no  addition  from  animal  bod- 
ies can  possibly  Improve?  Not  till 
the  animal  abomlnatlona  are  aband- 
oned and  the  vegetable  producta  are 
Uken  In  all  their  delicate  purity 
can    the    real    virtue   oC   vegetables 

••  r  have  given  up  meat  eatlag, 
as  I  cannot  conscientiously  eat  meat 
when  I  feel  as  t  do  about  the  killing 
of  anlmata  I  think  I  am  learning 
patience  to  a  slight  degree  with  th« 
existing  order  of  things,  but  It  doei 
itot  keep  me  In  the  least  from  doing 
all  In  my  power  to  help  bring  around 
a  better  order.— Battle  E.  Heloy 
Caldwell.  Eaa. 


d  by  Google 


VEGETABLES        AND       FRUITS. 

Celery  is  invaluable  as  a  food  to  those  snf- 
kring  from  any  form  of  rheumatism,  for 
diseases  of  the  nerves,  and  nervous  dyspep- 
sia. 

Watercress  is  a  remedy  for  Hcurvy. 

Peanuts  for  indigestion.  They  are  es- 
pecially recommended  for  corpulent  diabetes. 
Peanuts  are  made  into  a  wholesome  and 
nutritions  soup,  are  browned  and  used  as 
cofFee,  are  eaten  as  a  relish  simply  baked, 
or  are  prepared  and  served  as  salted  almonds. 

Onions  are  almost  the  best  nervine  known, 
says  the  housekeeper.  No  medicine  is  so 
useful  in  cases  of  nervous  prostration,  and 
there  is  nothing  else  that  will  so  quickly 
relieve  and  tone  up  a  worn-out  system. 
Onions  are  useful  in  all  cases  of  coughs, 
colds  and  influenza;  in  consumption,  insom- 
nia, hydrophobia,  scurvy,  gravel,  and  kindred 
liver  complaints.  Eaten  every  other  day 
they  soon  have  a  clearing  and  whitening 
efiect  on  the  complexion. 

Spinach  is  useful  to  those  with  gravel. 

Asparagus  is  used  to  induce  perspiration. 

Carrots  for  sufferers  from   asthma; 

Turnips  for  nervous  disorders  and  for 
scurvy. 

Honey  is  wholesome,  strengthening, 
cleansing,  healing,  and  nourishing. 

Fresh  ripe  fruits  are  excellent  for  purifying 
the  blood  and  toning  up  the  system.  As 
specific  remedies  oranges  are  aperient.  Sour 
oranges  are  highly  recommended  for  rheuma- 
tism. 

Cranberries  for  erysipeles  are  used  exter- 
nally as   well    as  internally. 

Lemons  for  feverish  thirst  in  sickness, 
for  biliousness,  low  fevers,  rheumatism, 
coughs,    colds,   liver  complaint,  etc. 

Blackberries  as  a  tonic.  Usebil  in  all 
forms     of   diarrhea. 

32 


Tomatoes  are  a  powerful  aperient  for  the 
liver,  a  sovereign  remedy  for  dyspepsia  and 
indigestion.  Tomatoes  are  invaluable  in  all 
conditions  of  the  system  in  which  the  use  of 
calomel    is    indicated. 

Figs  are  aperient  and  wholesome.  They 
are  said  to  be  valuable  as  food  for  those  suf- 
fering from  cancer.  They  are  used  externally 
as    well  as  internally. 

Apples  are  useful  in  nervous  dyspepsia; 
they  are  nutritious,  medicinal  and  vitaliz- 
ing; they  aid  digestion,  clear  the  voice, 
correct  the  acidity  of  the  stomach,  and  are 
valuable  in  rheumatism,  insomnia  and  Hver 
troubles.  An  apple  contains  as  much  nutri- 
ment as  a  potato  in  a  pleasanter  and  more 
wholesome  form. — Commoner  and  Glassworker, 
Pittsburgh.    Fa. 

ANIMAL  MANURE  &  POTATO  SCAB. 

Considering  the  feet  that  potatoes  are  sub- 
ject to  scab  it  is  better  to  use  fertilizers  than 
manure.  While  manure  will  give  good  results 
on  all  crops,  yet  it  will  be  just  as  serviceable 
on  com  as  on  potatoes,  the  latter  crop  being 
much  less  liable  to  disease  than  com. — 
Green's  Ffitit  Grower, 

Our  position  that  the  insect  and  other 
diseases  of  vegetables  are  cansed  by  the  use  of 
animal  manures  is  being  admitted  by  horticul- 
tural writers.  The  fiict  is  animal  manures 
are  generally  too  stimulating  and  produce  an 
abnormal  growth  unfavorable  to  health  and 
vigor  in  the  plant,  which  is  in  consequence 
weakened  and  rendered  subject  to  the  attacks 
of  insects  and  diseases  produced  by  them. 
Mineral  ftnd  vegetable  fertilizers  are  mild  in 
their  effect  and  while  they  supply  proper 
nourishment  do  not  produce  disease  or  en- 
courage insects. 

Everything  in  our  city  garden  is  growing 
vigorously  and  without  insect  pests.  Our 
fertilizers  are  principally  coal  ashes  with  the 
spent  grounds  of  bran  coffee  &  charred  refuse. 


June, 


d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


FRANK  E.   ORMSBY. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  }1om^  apd  Oardep  { 


Vol.  I,  No.  3,  Nbw  Series. 


Whole  Nuhbbs,  75. 


FRANK  E.  ORMSBY. 


THE  subject  of  oar  sketdi  of  whom  wc 
publish  a  portrait,  was  bom  at  I<ow< 
■viUe  N.  Y.,  February  loth,  1875,  and 
was  reared  iind  fed  in  the  usual  way,  upon  the 
farm  until  about  fourteen  years  of  age.  Since 
which  time  he  has  been  actively  engi^ed  in 
business.  At  twenty  he  ow:ned  and  conducted 
a  mannfacturing  business  employing  thirty- 
five  hands,  with  several  men  on  the  road,  built 
np  by  himself  alone.  Some  ten  years  ago, 
never  having  been  strong  and  really  well  in 
his  life  np  to  that  time,  he  naturally  studied  the 
laws  of  health  more  than  anything  else.  It 
dawned  npon  him  one  day  that  meat  the  result 
of  killing,  must  have  a  deleterous  efiect  when 
incorporated  into  the  system.  He  analyzed 
the  thought  and  viewed  the  subject  from  every 
stand-point  he  could  conceive  of  and  decided  at 
last  that  he  was  right.  He  had  never  read 
an3^hing  npon  the  subject  then,  but  firmly  de- 
cided whatever  would  be  the  result  he  was 
through  with  it.  It  was  not  long  before  he  re- 
alized the  effects  of  the  change,  he  was  grad- 
nally  Iransformed  into  a  new  being  and  a 
knowledge  of  things  of  laws  and  processes  in 
nature,  seemed  to  open  up  as  he  himself  ex- 
pressed it,  "a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth, 
for  I  found  it  possible  to  dwell  in  health, 
peace  and  harmony  here  and  now.  My  life 
has  been  one  round  of  pleasure  ever  since.  I 
do  six  times  the  amount  of  work  that  I  ever 
did  without  an  ache  or  pain.  My  brain  is  as 
clear  as  a  bell,  which  is  a  wonderiul  change 
from  the  congested  brain  and  fevered  scalp 
which  ruined  my  hair  and  made  me  bald  at  21 : 
all  the  result  of  a  regenerated  reconstructed 
and  repolarized  condition  of  my  organism 
through  abstinence  from  the  death  dealing  de- 
potentialized  carcasses  of  dead  animals." 
He  is  MOW    editing  Planets  and  People  a 


monthly  magazine  and  has  plans  about  com- 
pleted for  a  unique  and  peculiar  educational 
institution,  which  will  be  a  college  devoted  to 
the  universal  principles  in  nature  and  the  rela- 
tion of  all  things  thereto  according  to  the  sci- 
ence of  magnetics.  The  cost  of  the  college  is 
to  be  two-hundred  thousand  dollars.  It  will 
be  located  in  Chicago  or  viduity  and  the  sub- 
ject of  food  and  diet;  of  the  laws  of  life  gener- 
ally, will  be  a  feature  of  the  work,  it  is  de- 
signed to  carry  on  and  will  be  taught  there. 

Mr.  Ormsby  is  in  the  prime  of  his  life  and 
full  of  energy.  He  is  intelligent,  vigorous  and 
original.  Has  a  good  degree  of  confidence  in 
his  ability  to  accomplish  what  he  undertakes. 
A  very  important  element  of  success.  He  is 
now  an  excellent  example  of  the  principles  he 
advocates  and  seems  likely  to  have  a  life  of 
gfeat  activity  and  nsefhlnesa  before  him  in  a 
sphere  of  his  own  creation. 


MISS  CAROLINE  KOFEL'S  PAPER. 

Miss  Caroline  Kofel  of  the  Zurich,  Switzer- 
land Homegarten  Colony,  read  a  paper  before 
the  Chicago  V.  Society  upon  ' '  Who  is  a  Vege- 
tarian." She  defined  the  different  classes  who 
might  and  might  not  be  thus  properly  classed. 
She  disapproved  of  persons  who  were  tempted 
to  partake  of  oysters,  fish  and  fowl  calling 
themselves  Vegetarians.  She  did  not  how- 
ever have  any  criticism  to  make  upon  such 
Vegetarians  as  partook  of  animal  products : 
milk,  batter,  eggs  and  cheese  as  such  food 
required  no  sacrifice  of  sentient  life.  She  made 
plain  many  important  points  along  this  line. 

A  letter  was  read  from  Countess  Wachmeis- 
ter  who  will  pass  through  Chicago  next  fall  on 
her  way  from  California  to  Europe  saying  that 
she  would  be  pleased  to  address  the  Society 
at  that  time.— F.  E.  Green. 

35 


d  by  Google 


pood,  )1om^  apd  (jarde9 


FOOD  AND  INTEMPERANCE. 

At  a  meeting  of  the  West  Side  Vegetarian 
Society  in  April,  Dr.  Craig  by  request  read  the 
paper  on  Diet  and  its  Relation  to  Intempeance 
which  he  read  in  the  parlors  of  the  Great 
Northern  Hotel  in  February,  from  which  the 
News  Herald  gives  the  following  quotations. 

"  Everything  that  is  taken  into  or  generated 
within  the  system  that  is  chemically  or  phys- 
iologically incompatible  with  the  stntctnres 
or  functions  produces  increased  activity  for  a 
longer  or  shorter  period,  which  is  known  as 
stimulation. 

The  activity  induced  by  stimulants  is  forthe 
purpose  of  their  expulsion,  and  as  they  fur- 
nish no  power  of  themselves,  that  which  is 
used  for  their  removal  is  at  the  expense  oi  the 
organisms  :  therefore  exhaustion  follows  in  di- 
rect proportiou  to  the  degree  of  such  effisrt. 

Repetition  of  stimulation  decreases  the  sen- 
sibilities of  the  organism  to  the  presence  of 
that  particular  stimulant,  so  that  a  constantly 
increasing  amount  is  needed  to  produce  the 
effect. 

The  flesh  of  all  animals  contains  material 
that  has  been  partially  consumed,  and  more 
that  has  been  wholly  so,  and  is  therefore 
poisonous.  When  the  amount  of  worn  out 
material  is  increased  in  the  human  body  by 
adding  to  it,  in  the  food,  that  of  other  animal 
stimulation  is  produced,  and  in  addition  an 
increase  of  water  is  needed  to  remove  it  from 
the  system. 

The  limit  of  stimnlation  by  flesh  as  food  is 
soon  reached,  because  the  capacity  of  the  tis- 
sues to  digest  and  assimilate  the  nutriment 
(x>ntained  in  it  is  limited  ;  therefore  something 
else  is  required  that  will  at  tbe  same  time  stim- 
ulate and  supply  the  increase  of  water  needed 
for  elimination,  and  these  properties  are  found 
in  alcoholic  beverages. 

It  is  not  claimed  that  all  who  use  the  flesh 
of  animals  for  food  will  necessarily  become  ad- 
dicted to  the  use  of  alcoholic  liquors,  or  that 
their  desires  are  in  that  direction,  for  in  civil- 
ised societies  there  is  much  to  modify  or  to  en- 
tirely neutralize  this  natural  trend.  In  the 
first  place  there  are  probably  none  that  more 
than  approximate  to  an  exclusive  meat  diet. 


and  there  are  moral  and  social  influences  that 
play  a  lat^e  part  in  preventing  such  indulgen- 
ces, but  at  the  same  time  the  almost  universal 
use  of  pepper  and  spices  in  food,  to  say  noth- 
ing of  other  tonics  which  have  such  an  enor- 
mous sale  in  drug  stores  and  department 
wholesale  houses,  proves  the  desire  is  by  no 
means  dead  or  even  languishing. 

If  temperance  workers  wish  to  eradicate  in- 
temperance from  the  world  they  must  go  back 
of  legislative  enactment  and  take  even  more 
radical  measures  in  educating  children  than 
they  are  now  doing.  Very  much  can  be  ac- 
complished in  the  school,  but  they  should  go 
into  the  home  and  advocate  a  pure  diet  and 
teach  parents  to  allow  their  children  to  eat  on- 
ly vegetables,  grains  and  fruit,  and  to  banish 
from  their  tables  peppers  and  all  other  stimu- 
lating spices  and  drinks ;  thus  cultivating  in 
them  a  natural,  healthy  appetite,  and  it  will 
always  be  found  in  this,  as  in  morals  and  re- 
ligion, that  the  impressions  made  in  early  life 
are  the  most  permanent.  The  first  ten  years 
of  a  child's  education  is  tbe  most  potent  of  all 
for  good  or  evil  and  with  most  persons  shapes 
the  character  and  habits  for  all  time," — News- 
Herald. 


A  REFINED  TASTE. 

"Culture?"  repeated  the  cannibal,  some- 
thing scornfully.  "Have  we  any  culture? 
Why,  I  tell  you  we're  getting  so  cultured  we 
won't  like  to  have  anything  on  our  tables  but 
French  missionary.  Cultivated.  Well,  rather." 

The  wind  at  the  moment  managed  to  exec- 
ute a  faint  sough  in  the  top  of  a  cocoa  palm 
not  far  away. — Detroit  Tribune. 


COMMON  SENSE  IN  REGARD  TO  FOOD. 
"And  now  let  us  see  how  you  live.  First 
of  all,  in  the  matter  of  food.  Your  diet  is  not 
a  good  one,  it  is  not  varied  enough,  and  nearly 
all  the  things  yon  eat  and  drink  are  adultera- 
ted. I  am  much  inclined  to  think  that  a  vegt' 
etarian  is  the  be^t,  and  I  am  fure  that  alcohol- 
ic liquors  are  unnecessary. — Merrie  England. 


You  may  cruelly  boil  a  lobster,  but  he  gets 
in  his  revenge  on  you  in  the  shape  of  a  salad 
nightmare. — Pitck. 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  }lom^  ai>i  (^rdei; 


THE  SUFFERING  FLESH  EATERS  CAUSE. 
Let  OS  grasp  the  fact  that  every  day  in  Chris- 
dan  England,  2,800  cattle,  20,000  sheep,  and 
5,000  p^s  are  put  todeath.or  collectively  more 
than  1,000  an  hour.  The  total  for  the  year  1888 
was  estimated  by  statisticians  at  1,000,000  cat- 
tle, 7,000,000  sheep,  and  a,ooo,ooo  pigs.  In 
Chicago,  at  one  establishment  alone,  some 
8,000  animals  are  butchered  every  day,  nearly 
9.000  men  being  employed  in  this  daily  work 
of  slaaghter.  Let  us  consider  the  snaring 
each  animal  endures,  then  mnltiply  that 
amoant  of  pain  by  these  overwhelming  figures, 
remembering  that  all  this  slaughter  is  totally 
unnecessary,  and  try  and  realize  onr  responsi- 
bility before  God  in  this  matter.  We  must 
dther  join  in  the  practical  protest  against  such 
doing,  which  is  being  made  in  this  and  other 
countries,  or  go  on  aiding  and  abetting  these 
massacres  of  our  fellow  creatures.  The  evil 
can  only  be  stopped  by  men  and  women  indi- 
vidually resolving  to  wash  their  hands  from 
farther  participation  in  such  deeds. — The  Her- 
aid  qfth£  Golden  A^t. 


THE  CRUELTIES  OF  THE  SLAUGHTER 
HOUSE. 
A  butcher  wrote  thus  to  the  StafFordshire 
Daily  Sentinel :  "  The  first  lesson  a  botcher's 
apprentice  generally  receives  is  how  to  torture 
the  animals  which  are  to  be  slaughtered,  and 
he  is  allowed  to  use  the  ax  before  well  able  to 
lift  it,  to  the  indescribable  agony  of  the  poor 
beasts.  This  I  have  seen  occur  daily  where  a 
large  amount  of  work  has  to  be  done.  I  have 
seen  slanghtennen  make  bets  as  to  which 
would  first  have  five  or  ten  sheep  killed, 
skinned  and  dressed,  and  you  may  depend 
upon  it  they  were  not  particular  aboat  their 
being  dead  before  skinning  them." 


INHUMAN  METHODS. 
In  Chicago,  where  the  slaughter  of  millions 
of  nnimals  has  been  reduced  almost  to  a  me- 
chanical process  (a  rapid  despatch  of  the  work  of 
killing,  skinning  and  dressing  being  considered 
of  the  first  importance)  it  will  be  easily  under- 
stood that  deeds  nre  perpetrated  which  could 
hardly  be  rdvealed  to  the  public.     The  law 

1896 


which  punishes  such  treatment  of  animals  un- 
der ordinary  circumstances  winks  at  these 
doings,  on  the  erroneous  supposition  that 
slaughter  for  food  is  necessary,  and  if  a 
wretched  beast  is  only  going  to  be  eaten,  it  is 
delivered  up  to  any  torture  wbid^  may  be  in- 
flicted by  inexperienced  boys  or  men  in  their 
eflforts  to  kill  it.—  TTie  Gold^  Age. 


FOOD  REFORM  DEPARTMENT  W.  C.  T.  U. 
The  action  of  the  leaders  of  the  World's  W. 
C.  T.  U.  in  establishing  a  food  reform  depart- 
ment is  a  foct  of  greater  significance  than 
many  persons  at  present  realize,  for  it  means 
that  they  recognise  in  'the  time-honored  but 
barbarous  custom  of  flesh-eating,  one  of  the 
most  fruitful  causes  of  the  poverty,  disease, 
misery  and  degradation  which  aflSict  mankind, 
and  are  pledged  to  aid  in  the  great  work  of  lead- 
ing t  he  Christian  nations  to  abandon  it.  As  their 
convictions  upon  this  question  come  to  be  em- 
braced also  by  the  thousands  of  noble  hearted 
members  of  the  union,  who  are  striving  to  lea- 
sen  the  sum  of  the  world's  snfiering  and  to  in- 
crease its  happiness,  a  great  and  powerful  host 
will  be  raised  up  of  women  who  .ire  pledged 
abstainers  from  flesh  and  blood  for  the  sake  of 
humantarian  and  benevolent  principles.  The 
ultimate  result  of  their  influence  upon  the  fu- 
ture of  mankind  and  the  animal  creation  may 
possibly  be  such  that  the  prospect  of  it  is  cal- 
culated to  gladden  the  hearts  of  all  who  look 
with  sadness  apon  a  world  groaning  in  pain 
and  sorrow,  for  verily  this  ancient  habit,  hand- 
ed down  to  us  by  a  savage  ancestry,  and  in- 
volving wholesale  and  cruel  massacres  every 
day  of  vast  multitudes  of  God's  sentient  crea- 
tures, may  be  fitly  described  as  one  of  the  roots 
of  all  evil,  and  one  of  the  curses  of  Christen- 
dom.—  The  Golden  Age. 


VEGETARIAN  PIC-NICS. 
Vegetarian  Pic-nics  have  been  taking  place 
in  Chicago  and  New  York,  and  we  trust  Phila- 
delphia will  have  at  least  one  such  pic-nic. 
Those  friends  who  have  suitable  places  for  pic- 
nics will  please  communicate  with  Miss  Em- 
ma Bettes,  Secy,,  of  the  Philadelphia  Vegetar- 
ian Society,  College  Settlement  Coflee  House 
7tb  &  Lombard  Sts. 

37 


d  by  Google 


pood,  ^om^  atfd  (iarde9 


OYSTERS. 

One  of  the  loveJy  graduates  of  the  Philadel- 
phia Normal  School  this  June,  assured  me  that 
having  dissected  an  oyster  at  the  dissecting 
or  vivisection  rooms  of  the  N.  S.  she  could 
never  think  of  eating  another  oyster. 

Seeing  ' '  oysters  on  ice  "  as  a  principal  dish 
at  a  notable  reception  of  a  great  peace  man, 
we  were  explaining  to  a  friend,  whose  chief  af- 
fliction is  the  gout,  the  composition  of  the  oys- 
ter, its  larger  proportion  being  of  viscera  and 
excrement.  He  begged  I  would  not  tell  him 
more  as  it  would  spoil  his  appetite,  for  it  was 
the  only  animal  food  of  which  the  doctor  al- 
lowed him  to  partake. 

The  use  of  the  oyster  is  that  of  a  scavenger. 
It  consumes  the  filth  received  from  the  city 
.sewers  as  it  flows  over  oyster  beds  that  settles 
at  the  bottom.  The  oyster  is  considereda  rich 
delicacy  and  is  even  recommended  to  invalids 
on  account  of  its  digestibility.  There  are  cer- 
tain months,  those  that  do  not  contain  an  R 
in  their  names  when  oysters  have  to  be  forbid- 
den on  account  of  their  poisonous  natnre,  es- 
pecitiUy  during  hot  weather  as  their  tendency 
is  to  rapid  decomposition  and  decay. 

The  odor  of  aa  oyster  saloon  where  the  poor 
little  but  useful  scavenger  is  vivisected  and 
swallowed,  is  one  of  the  most  offensive  that 
greets  the  nostrils  of  Vegetarians,  and  is 
scarcely  excelled  by  that  of  the  slaughter- 
house, where  oxen,  sheep  and  hogs  are  vivi- 
(lected  and  skinned,  in  many  places,  while  ner- 
vously twitching  with  life  and  painful  feeling. 

Yet  the  oyster  is  usually  the  last  thing  that 
even  a  refined  lady  will  give  up  even  though 
an  anti-vivisectionist  and  devoted  to  the  pro- 
motion of  kindness  to  animals,  so  strong  an 
influence  has  &shion  even  upon  very  sensible 
and  morally  sensitive  people. 

But  the  truth  is  making  its  way  and  the 
most  fashionable  dissipations  and  indulgences 
must  eventually  give  way  to  scientific  investi- 
gation and  moral  and  spiritual  conviction. 

We  arc  op|>osed  to  vivisection  on  principle, 
but  its  practice  in  the  schools  will  do  some 
good  if  the  scholar  possessordinary  intelligence 
and  discrimination.  But  dissection  would 
probably  do  as  well. 


SCIENCE  AND  SCRIPTTniE. 


J=*om  Ihi  Aalun  ofDittaa  ty  Dr.  ^ndloot. 


It  is  a  matter  of  surprise  to  those  who  have 
given  the  subject  more  than  a  passing  thought, 
that  the  practice  of  eating  lifeless,  decompos- 
ing animal  flesh,  should  continue,  as  it  chiefly 
does,  among  the  Christian  nations  of  the  earth 
in  this  enlightened  ^e — a  practice  condemned 
alike  by  most  heathen  nations,  the  teachings 
of  Science  and  the  commands  of  the  Holy 
Scriptures.  The  reason  for  the  continued  use 
of  animal  flesh  as  food  among  Christian  peo- 
ple seems  to  be  a  belief,  almost  universal,  that 
the  Bible  sanctions  its  use.  Nothing  could  be 
further  from  its  plain  teachings.  Permission 
was  given  the  Israelites,  under  certain  restric- 
tions, to  disobey  a  moral  law  and  divorce  their 
wives — Deut.  xxiv,  i  ;  we  presume  it  was  for 
the  same  reason,  on  account  of  the  hardness  of 
their  hearts  (Matt.  xix.  8),  that  permission 
was  given  to  disobey  a  physical  law  and  eat 
flesh  food — Gen.  ix.  3.  That  disobedience  of  a 
moral  law  b  followed  by  adequate  punishment 
we  have  every  reason  to  believe.  That  punish- 
ment follows  disobedience  of  a  physical  law  we 
know.  In  this  case  it  followed  immediately. 
At  the  same  time  that  permission  was  given 
man  to  become  carnivorous,  the  some  permis- 
sion was  given  animals  :  Gen.  ix.  5.  Neither 
man  nor  animals  were  carnivorous  in  the  be- 
ginning :  Gen.  i.  29,  30.  Neither  will  they  be 
in  the  end  :  Isaiah  xi.  6,  7,  8,  9. 

I  firmly  believe  Vegetarianism  tends  to  pur- 
ity of  heart,  without  which  none  shall  see  God. 
— Dr.  Geo.  B.  Charles,  Editor  of  the  Christian 
Metaphysician,  Chicago. 

Two  of  our  family  are  vegetarians.  I  have 
been  for  a  year,  I  will  do  all  I  can  to  circu- 
late the  literature.  We  are  vegetarians  from 
principle. — Isabel  As^iar  Drake,  68  S,  Par- 
sons Ave.,  Flushing,  L.  I.,  N.  Y. 

My  wife  and  1  are  realizing  that  much  meat 
and  especially  hog  meat  is  injurious.  We 
have  only  used  a  little  since  the  new  year  be- 
gan. I  am  quitting  it  as  well  as  tea  and  cof- 
fee.— .John  VV,  Hardy,  Chico,  Texas. 

July. 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  }lom^  apd  (iardei^l 


souTBKRN  PINES  FOR  CONSUMPTIVES.  FOOD :     NATURAL   AND  SPIRITUAL. 

Four  yeaj^  ago  a  young  lady  aod  2^  p^^P    p    ^^    emehY. 

her  uncle  came  here  from  New  York.  t  i  ■        t.     n     j     •       a.-          r          ■  -.      i  r              -ii.-     ..i. 

„.                  th         1            I            f  Taking  Paul  a  declaration  of  a  spintnal  lorm,  within  the 
□ataral  form  of  the  physical  man,  and  carry  thi.t  out  as  to 

large  family,   who  had  died  of  con-  ^^^^  ^y^^  ^^  g^^  ^1,^^  ^^^^  -^  ^  spiritual  apple  within 

eumptlon.    She  appeared  to  be  going  t^g  natural  apple!     And   as  of  this  fruit,  so  of  all  other 

like  the  rest.    Bbe  kept  walking  out  fruits,  and  also  of  all  vegetables  and  even  of  water!     Here 

among    the    pines    until    she   could  is  the  whole  thing  in  a  nut-shell  as  to  "Spiritual  food,"  its 

walk  a  mile  and  a  half  with  eaee.  form,    nature  and  where  found !     Found    upon    real  trees, 

n'hen  ahe  went  home.  In  July,  she  there  as  here !     Solid  fruit  at  that. 

was  looking  the  picture  of  health  As  the  physical  digestive  organs  select  and  build  up  and 

and  beauty.    In  the  winter  she  came  sustain  the  physical  body  from  the  material  food    in    the 

again  and  got  better;.but  Instead  ot  ^"^Vu^  f"*"-  *^15"""V^    f^ZT'^  ?  >^^t    ^P'"*"^ 
body  in  the  physical  body  extract  the    spiritual  substance 

remaining    here    sne    went    to    the  in  the  material   food  and  build  up  and  sustain  the  spiritual 

mountains  and   to  the  springs,  and  ^^^  ^jjjjj^  ,     ^  further  proof  of  this  lies  in  the  fact  that 

Joined  in  all  the  galetlea  ot  society,  -niatter  has  no  life  in  and  of  itself,    and  therefore  the 

This  kind  of  life  was  too  much  tor  materials  of  the  matter  food  has  no  life  and  thus  no  strength 

her,  and  she  went  home  and  died,  in   them,  and  that  our  health,   life  and   strength  depends 

The  physicians  say  If  she  had  re-  Upon  &  is  derived  from  the  health,  strength  aic.  of  our  spir- 

malned   quietly  at  Southern   Plnea  itual  body  and  this  in  turn  gathers  its  snbsislance  &c.  from 

Bhe  would  have  outgrown  her  con-  t'»«  Spiritual  food  that  is  in  the  material  food ! 

sumptlve    tendencies.      She   was   up  ,"'  »"">>?  *«*  ^O.  do  you  not  see  how  careful  we  should  be 

_>.>..-  ^h^     .u.    u     la  u         w  of  "thefood  weeat,thewaterwednnk&theair  we  breath"? 

mgbts  when  she  should  have  been  .     ,      •    .          ,             ,   ,-r                is,             •          .i<            i 

,     ^  ,      _     ^                   ,.     .,        .  And  what  a  charmed  hfewecould  have  at  our  tables  and 

in  bed.     Such  persons  should  make  j^g  ^^^^   ^j    ^^,g   ^^^^P     ^^^^  ^1^^,^  ^1,^^  preoaring    our 

up  their  minds  to  remain  In  the  earthly  meals  &  enjoying  the  same  be  consc'ious  (?)  of  a 
Southern  Pine  climate.  spiritual  wor!d  existence  and  enjoyment!     And  aiso  have 

"My  brother's  wife  was  consump-  some  fine  ideas  of  the  world  we  are  travelling  towards,  and 
tlve,"  said  the  Doctor,  "but  ahe  has    not  land  there  in  stupid  ignorance. 

completely  recovered  and  baa  spent  "  Dine  a  man,  wine  a  man,  and  he  is  your  servant." 
two  winters  In  MaasachuBettH  slnc6.  Why  ?  Because  his  Spirit  is  enlivened  up  by  the  "spirits" 
Since  coming  here  she  has  been  as  '°J^^  ^'^^  and  food  and  be  feels  at  peace  with  the  world 
well  as  she  ever  was."  "Starve  a  man  and  you  make  a  devil  of  him!'  Why? 
Because  his  spint  is  ebbing  out  of  him  ;  and  be    becomes 

**I  trust  a  large  number  ot  the  unconscious  of  any  moral   law    and  still  less  of  civil  law 
persons  whose  names  I  have  sent  ^""^  '" '  ^^  result  in  bread  riots,  thievery    »c. 
you  win  be  converted  to  vegetarian-       "  ^^>t  till  a  man  gets  a  good  dinnerand  you    can  preach 

, ,1, _>.  B.    ti    »„^  n     T  1, the     Gospel     to    him."       "You    might    lust    as     well 

ism  through  F..  B.  and  G.     1  know  j,   ^^^^^^    ^^^j,     ^     ^     ^    ^^^^    ^J^^„      j^     ^j 

of  several  who  have  come  out  by  ^^^-^  ^^  ^^  that  food  is  a  great  factor,  in  fact  the  prime 
receiving  a  few  copies  of  It.  I  have  factor.  Therefore,  if  we  wish  to  reform  the  worid,  the 
three  famlllee  here  or  near  here  al-  best  place  to  begin  is  in  the  kitchen,  not  only  as  to 
most  ready  to  come  out  clear.  They  the  materials  but  as  to  the  spiritual  substance  in  the  mat- 
are  leaving  off  gradually  and  are  ter  materials.  Tell  the  cook  to  "beware"  as  there  is 
thinking  seriously.— Mrs.  Lydla  something  within  the  food  that  she  must  not  kill  or  the 
Irons,  Marshall,  Wash.  food  may  stupify,  or  sicken  or  may  kill  the   eater ! 

AIR  NUTRITION. 

-After  reading  your  laat  P..  H.  i  ^ui  a  believer  in  the  practice  of  "  Vegetarianity"  for 
and  G.  I  have  made  up  my  mind  health's  Sake  and  from  practical  experience  of  its  benefits. 
to  be  a  piactlcal  vegetarian,  and  as  p„eumatic  nutrition  is  no  longer  a  theory  in  my  mind  bat 
I  am  a  traveling  man  It  makes  It  a  a  practical  fact.  Why  did  Magendie's  dogs  die  when  fed 
little  more  difficult  for  me  to  get  on  white  bread  and  thrive  on  whole  wheat  bread?  Answer, 
Just  what  I  ought  to  have  for  food,  not  because  of  insufficient  nutrition  but  on  account  of 
more  so  than  It  would  be  If  I  re-  being  lied  with  a  substance,  which  had  been  robbed  of  that 
malned  at  my  home  in  New  Eng-  element  designed  by  nature  to  assist  and  stimulate  the 
iand.-W.  H.  Winchester,  .511  Mar-  excretory  organs  in  the  performance  of  their  duties, 
ket  street  Camden  N  J  These  dogs,  fed  on  fine  flour,  probablj' died  of  constipation. 

—J.  D.  I,awrence,  ao?  N.  6Ui  St.,  Richmond,  Va. 

1896  39 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  ^om^  apd  Qardei^ll 


VEGETARIANISM    FROM     THE    STAND- 
POINT OF  LIFE  PRINCIPLES. 


By  Frank  E,  Ormsby, 


As  a  reform  movemeat,  that  of  TCgetarian- 
ism  must  in  the  near  fiittire  prodace  the  most 
far  reaching  and  beneficial  resttlt  in  the  lives 
ofhuman  beings  possible  to  be  accomplished,  for 
what  we  eat  has  a  more  direct  influence  upon 
our  lives  than  all  other  things  combined.  The 
temperance  movement  will  never  be  successful 
until  it  is  conducted  on  strictly  vegetarian 
principles.  We  often  hear  it  said  that  "  if  onr 
thoughts  are  right,  if  we  have  right  desires, 
motives  and  feelings  when  we  are  eating,  we 
get  good  out  of  our  food  and  it  does  not  matter 
what  the  food  is,  whether  animal  or  vegeta- 
ble." Such  reasoning  is  the  result  of  the  er- 
roneous idea  that  thoughts  are  first,  and  are 
all  potent  and  powerful  when  directed  toward 
the  good,  hence  control  the  system  and  all 
things  therein.  I  do  not  mean  that  it  is  not  a 
good  thing  to  have  and  to  cultivate  good 
thoughts,  but  I  do  mean  to  say  that  we  can 
have  better  thoughts,  higher  motives,  and  be 
able  to  live  purer  lives,  if  we  do  not  take  into 
our  systems  animal  foods. 

My  reasons  and  rules  for  not  using  animal 
food  are : 

First, — Take  nothing  into  the  system  that 
nature,  or  God,  does  not  yield  to  the  hand  of 
man  without  resistance. 

Second. — Take  no  food  into  the  system  that 
does  not  contain  life,  potential  principle,  life 
elements  in  the  course  of  constructive  express- 
ion. This  simply  means  that  when  you  take 
food,  take  life ;  at  the  same  time,  take  that 
which  Nature  gives  abundantly  and  freely,  un- 
der the  creative  processes  of  cultivation. 

I  do  not  abstain  from  animal  food  simply  be- 
cause it  isanimal,  but  because  it  is  a  deaddepo- 
tentialized  substance,  destructive  and  disinte- 
grating in  its  nature.  Its  polarity,  so  to  speak, 
has  been  reversed,  and  it  no  longer  contains  that 
element  or  principle  weterui  life.  Because  man 
has  the  power  to  control  and  subjugate  all  other 
forms  oflife,  is  no  reason  why  he  should  attempt 

40 


to  incorporate  within  hia  physical  body  all  other 
prodncts  both  animal  and  vegetable.  On  the 
contrary,  he  should  so  operate  in  this  great 
Arcana  of  Nature  that  he  will  be  able  to  in- 
crease his  powers  from  day  to  day,  both  physi- 
cally and  mentally,  bnt  more  especially  the 
latter.  There  is  but  one  way  for  man  to  do 
this,  and  that  is  by  taking  life— joining  other 
life  to  his  own,  incorporating  potential  con- 
structive and  creative  principle  into  his  being 
and  transmuting  that  principle  until  it  ema- 
nates or  is  given  its  freedom  again  upon  the 
highest  plane  of  intellect  and  reason.  It  is 
the  expression  of  these  life  principles,  through 
the  avenue  of  the  brain  that  determines  the 
status  of  man. 

Eggs  enter  largely  into  most  of  what  are 
called  fancy  mixtures,  and  while  eggs  are  live 
food  naturally,  they  are  destroyed  when  so  am- 
algamated with  other  substances.  Fine  flour  is 
a  divided  and  reduced  article  of  diet,  without 
which  these  deleterious  mixtures  would  almost 
be  impossible. 

We  sometimes  read  of  Oriental  people  who 
live  principally  upon  black  bread  and  dates 
and  who  will  exchange  other  food  for  this,  pre- 
fering  it.  The  black  bread  is  simply  wheat  or 
rye  bread  made  from  the  entire  kernel,  vith- 
out  leaven,  and  if  you  have  never  made  a  meal 
from  such  a  combination,  you  have  missed  a 
treat.  This  is  live  food,  especially  the  dates, 
and  the  bread  is  at  its  best,  althongh  the  grain 
itself  would  give  greater  potency  to  the  life 
forces  of  human  beings,  for  it  would  then  be 
taken  with  its  full  life  principle  freed  within 
the  system. 

Every  animal  creature  on  the  earth  will 
fight  for  its  life,  the  same  as  man  will,  there- 
fore, will  resist  man's  attack  upon  it  when  he 
ventures  to  secure  food  from  the  animal  king- 
dom. If  it  is  because  the  animal  is  highly  or- 
ganized that  we  select  it  for  food,  it  seems  to 
me  that  man  would  be  stiD  better  and  that  the 
Fiji  Islanders  are  getting  ahead  of  us  and  we 
ought  to  keep  our  missionaries  at  home  and 
eat  them  ourselves. 

With  the  vegetable  kingdom,  it  is  different. 
The  tree  or  stalk  springs  up  from  the  seed, 
flourishes  and  increases,  ripens  and  culminates 


July. 


db,Googlc 


I  pood.  )lom^  apd  Oarde9 


and*  sheds  its  fruitage  freely  to  the  hand  of 
man.  The  most  tender-hearted  and  sensitive 
child  can  gather  the  same  without  a  thought 
of  fear  or  danger,  fn  fact,  it  is  the  greatest  of 
pleasures  to  harvest  the  crop  and  secure  the 
necessary  food  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  sys- 
tem. Send  a  sensitive  child  out  to  kill  a 
chicken,  and  how  is  it?  Send  a  child  out  to 
kill  a  lamb  that  it  has  petted  and  played  with 
through  its  young  life,  and  how  will  it  take  to 
the  operation  ?  We  can  decide  this  question  of 
diet  very  scieutifically  by  the  manner  in  which 
a  sensitive  person  approaches  the  various 
forms  of  life  for  the  purpose  of  securing  food, 
such  a  one  will  not  select  food  that  nature  does 
notyieldto  thehandof  man  without  resistance. 
Take  no  food  into  the  system  that  does 
not  contain  potent  life  or  latent  enet^^.  In 
catching  and  killing  the  animal  for  food,  man 
drives  out  the  life  principle — the  soul  force,  if 
you  please — and  after  draining  the  life-blood 
horn  the  organism,  rendering  it  inert,  devi- 
talizing it,  in  other  words,  casting  a  pall,  a 
shadow,  a  depression  over  it,  turning  its 
course  of  action  from  the  constructive  and  ex- 
pressive to  the  negative,  disintegrating,  and 
destmctive  course,  what  can  be  expected  from 
it  when  used  as  food  but  the  intensifying  of 
destmctiveness,  combativeness,  sensnality, 
debauchery  and  vice,  in  the  expressions  of  a 
people  impregnated  with  it?  It  is  the  life 
principle  of  the  substance  taken  that  deter- 
mines the  result,  not  the  material  itself. 

Consider  for  a  moment  the  nature  of  wheat. 
Its  latent  energy,  life  and  power  is  such  that 
it  is  able  to  reproduce  its  kind  and  bring  forth 
a  fmitage  in  multitudinous  quantity.  It  has 
creative  power.  One  kernel  brings  forth  many 
kemals,  and  if  you  take  it  into  your  systems 
alive,  you  add  that  much  life  force  or  potency 
to  what  you  already  have.  In  other  words, 
yon  add  or  incorporate  creative  life  principle 
into  your  being,  while  with  the  animal  food 
you  disintegrate  and  destroy  your  forces. 

The  great  law  of  affinity  controls  the  action 
of  food  upon  the  system,  and  if  one  has  great 
mental  power,  it  is  not  necessary  to  feed  that 
function  of  being,  but  instead  one  should  bal- 
ance up   the    system    by    adding    force  and 


strength  to  the  weaker  parts.  It  would  be 
impossible  to  suggest  a  course  of  diet  without 
first  knowing  the  magnetic  condition  of  the 
subject.  It  is  this  law  of  life  that  has  led  me 
into  the  consideration  of  diet  from  this  stand- 
point. Although  a  vegetarian  for  about  eight 
years,  I  have  formulated  my  real  scientific  rea- 
sons since  learning  the  nature  of  physical  or- 
ganism, magnetically.  To  illustrate  what  I 
mean  by  the  nature  of  man  and  the  affinity  of 
foods  for  particular  sections  in  man,  snppose, 
for  example,  e  person  has  a  strong  mind  and 
a  frail  body..  The  mind  would  not  need  nour- 
ishment, but  the  body  would  have  to  be  nursed 
and  strengthened.  The  wheat  we  were 
Speaking  about  is  magnetically  related  to 
the  brain  of  man,  hence,  would  not  be  the  best 
food  for  this  subject.  Potatoes,  com,  nuts 
and  dates  would,  however,  supply  strength  to 
the  bodj-.  Potatoes  have  the  tendency  to  in- 
tensify assimulation  and  to  scatter  the  potent 
principles  of  other  foods,  hence  are  among  the 
very  best  of  foods  for  man. 

It  is  well  understood  among  breeders  ol 
stock  that  they  get  more  weight,  more  fat,  and 
greater  bulk,  from  com  than  any  other  pro- 
duct. They  have  found  by  observation  that 
it  is  a  feet.  The  reason  is  com  is  more  bulky 
than  any  other  product,  to  begin  with,  which 
is  the  first  reason.  Com  is  fattening  because 
its  polar  point  is  upon  the  body  of  its  struct- 
ure instead  of  the  head,  hence  lodges  the  ac- 
tive expressive  life  principle  upon  the  body  or 
structure  of  the  animal, — another  reason.  The 
third  reason  is  because  kemals  of  com  are 
more  expansive  when  moistened  than  any 
other  cereal.  They  will  swell  to  greater  size 
proportionally.  You  will  see  that  all  three 
of  these  principles  contained  in  the  express- 
ions of  the  com,  tend  to  fetten  the  animal  and 
increase  the  size  and  weight  to  a  greater  de- 
gree than  would  wheat,  rye  or  oats,  even 
though  the  latter  were  magnetically  polarized, 
or  had  affinity  for  the  same  section  of  being 
that  com  has. 

An  interesting  discussion  followed  iu  which 
the  fattening  properties  of  potatoes  was  sug- 
gested by  the  chairman,  but  denied  by  Mr 
Ormsby. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  )1om^  apd  Qardei; 


pood.  )1om^  a9d  Qardeg 

PHILADELPHIA.  JUNE.    1896. 

VegcUriaa   Society   of   America,    Publlahen, 


REV.    BBNRY    S.   CLUHB.    Bdllor. 

One  Subacrlptlon.  jocts.,   Tour  Subscriptiou    fi.oo  ■    year. 

AdTCTtiKmoiM      per      line,      one   Inieilion,    10    cents, 

Iwdre  tnaeitloiu  i  dollar. 

Our  good  A nti- vivisection  friends  contri- 
bute exquisite  little  personal  points  which  will 
find  many  responsive  readers. 

Our  humane  friends  are  specially  invited 
to  peruse  the  articles  copied  from  the  Herald 
of  the  Golden  Age  in    this  number. 


Our  Dumb  Animals  has  made  a  strong 
point  for  Vegetarianism  in  admitting  that 
intense  suffering  just  before  an  animal  dies 
makes  its  meat  poisonous.  Our  scientists 
will  we  hope  explain  how  it  is. 


"Vegetarianism  from  the  Standpoint  of 
Life  principles"  is  an  original  view  of  V^e- 
tarianism  which  will  be  read  and  studied 
with  much  interest.  Mr.  Ormsby  is  one  of 
Chicago's  live  men  and  is  more  so  for  having 
discarded  dead  animals  from  his  daily  menu. 


The  Milltitlionaire  is  a  new  book  of  the 
"  Looking  Backward,  "  by  Bellamy,  order  and 
is  of  strong  Vegetarian  tendencies.  Our  quo- 
tation from  it  will  be  read  with  interest.  The 
conviction  that  a  better  time  for  even  this 
world  is  coming  in  the  near  future  is  a  grow- 
ing one  and  the  reforms  are  all  pointing  in 
that  direction. 


In  looking  over  the  MS  S.  report  of  the 
proceedings  of  the  V.  Congress  it  becomes  quite 
evident  that  many  of  the  best  features  of  the 
Congress,  the  spontaneous  remarks  of  speak- 
ers from  various  parts  of  the  world  have 
not  appeared  in  print  even  in  abstnct.  In 
fact  the  best  is  yet  to  come. 


We  have  a  nice  sketch  of  Mr.  Snyder, 
Chicago's  President  of  the  Central  Vegetarian 
Society,  written  by   one  of  his  friends.     We 


are  keeping  it  to  accompany  portraits  of  him- 
self and  bride.  As  they  have  not  arrived  in 
time  for  this  number  we  must  defer  them 
until  our  next. 


We  offer  our  congratulations  on  behalf  of 
the  V.  S.  to  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Albert  H.  Snyder 
of  Chicago  understanding  from  invitation 
received  that  they  were  married  June  i  ith. 
The  invitation  reads  as  follows  ; 

Mr.  a.  W.  Simcmi  aid  Mia  Elnara  B.  Simomi  rmual 
yauT  prtteHct  at  thi  marriatt  0/  Iheir  aslrr  Gerlrndt.  lo 
Albert  N.  Snydir,  tn  Tkunday  evening,  Junf  elevnth. 
iSg6,  at  ni  oWm*.     f.ritoi,  mimois. 


"LET  US  KILL  SOMETHING." 
Mrs.  Carrica  Le  Favre  writes  "This  is  a 
good  lime  to  remember  the  remark  of  Prof 
Swing  when  a  friend,  who  was  preparing  to 
go  out  for  a  day's  sports  said:  "It  is  a 
glorious  day.  Prof  Swing,  too  fine  to  stay  in 
town."  "Yes,"  replied  the  Professor,  "all 
nature  and  its  creatures  are  rejoicing,  let  us 
go  out  and  kill  something." 

"WHY  I  AM  A  VEGETARIAN." 
Mr.  J-  Howard  Moore,  who  originated  Xhe 
Vegetarian  University  Club  at  Chicago,  de- 
livered an  address  on  the  above  subject 
recently  at  the  Philosophic  Club,  Englewood, 
Chicago.  Dr.  Viola  H.  Ludden  reports  that 
"the  paper  was  broad  and  most  excellent: 
fitll  of  scientific  suggestion  and  humane 
thought.  It  was  well  received  and  some  dis- 
cussion followed."  Mr.  Moore  has  been 
persuaded  to  publish  the  papter  in  pamphlet 
form  and  it  can  now  be  had  for  10  cts. 


BATTLE  CREEK  FOOD  &  MEDICINE. 
Our  advertising  pages  show  the  enterprise 
of  our  Battle  Creek  friends  in  organizing  com- 
panies to  supply  the  public  with  wholesome 
food  and  modem  medicine.  The  business 
which  at  first  commenced  in  a  small  way,  has 
been  growing  so  that  now  even  the  Express 
companies  give  them  special  rates  and  facili- 
ties. There  are  many  reasons  why  they 
succeed  :  i — Good  goods.  2 — Reasonable 
prices.  3 — Attractive  and  convenient  size  pack- 
ages. 4 — No  animal  fat.  5 — Even  in  quality. 
6 — Mrs.  Cleveland  enhances  her  beauty  by 
u.<:ing  their  Health  Foods. 


.vGooqIc 


July. 


pood*  ^om^  apd  (iardcQ 


ODORS  IN  STREET  CARS. 

Recently,  while  in  Boston,  I  was  very  mnch 
annoyed  while  riding  in  electric  cars  by  the  at- 
mosphere in  the  car :  sometimes  fish  peifiime 
or  meats  or  «n  unhealthy  odor  of  poorly  ven- 
tilated apartntents. — Fannie  B.  Ballon,  North 
Attleboro.  Mass. 

There  is  nothing  that  we  so  distinctly  remem- 
ber that  annoyed  ns  so  much,  on  our  first 
visit  to  New  England,  over  forty  years  ago, 
as  the  universal  odorof  fish.  Even  refined, 
educated  and  beautiful  ladies  bad  this  fishy 
odor  attached  to  them  !  The  fish  ball  was 
then  as  popnlar  as  the  foot  ball  is  now.  It 
is  true  there  is  a  good  deal  of  the  same  thing 
in  Philadelphia  and  New  Vork,  but  Boston 
used  to  excel  all  other  cities  in  this  peculiar 
perfume.  We  were  in  hopes  that  it  had  re- 
fonned  of  late  years,  but  Mrs.  Ballon  indi- 
cates that  it  is  still  a  noticeable  feature  in 
public   conveyances. 

SOWING  THE  SEED. 
Miss  I.  A.  Drake  encloses  $i.oofor4  copies 
monthly  of  F.,  H.  &  G.  which  she  wilt  en- 
deavor to  give  to  those  "who  are  ripe  for 
the  harvest,"  but  says  "  I  do  not  find  many 
in  that  condition."  This  is  very  true,  but 
F..  H.  &  G.  is  published  not  so  much  Xogalher 
the  harvest  as  to  sow  the  seed.  We  do  not 
tronble  onrselves  so  much  about  "what  will 
thebar^ast  be"  but  are  content  to  be  plowing 
the  rough  ground  and  sowing  the  seed  and 
lease  to  God  the  increase.  We  hope  all  our 
friends  will  help  us  sow  the  seed.  Some  may 
bll  by  the  way  side  and  some  on  stony  and 
some  on  weedy  soil,  but  some  will  fell  on 
good  ground  and  bring  forth  lo,  50  a  100 
kid.  Do  not  wait  till  people  are  ripe  for  the 
harvest,  good  friends,  bnt  send  ns  names  even 
of  those  not  likely  to  be  influenced.  We 
sometimes  find  the  best  appreciation  among 
the  least  likely  elements.  We  will,  ir  our 
friends  will  help  us,  send  a  copy  to  every 
newspaperand  magazine  in  the  coflntiy.  For 
every  dollar  sent  us  for  this  pitrpbse  we  will 
send  4  copies  a  year.  Also  to  all  clergymen 
and  school  teachers.  We  need  to  print 
50.000  copies  for  these  purposes.  Help  friends 
help  I 


THE    LIBRARY. 

Figs  or  Pigs  ?    Fruit  or  Brate  P     A  Text  Book 
of  Vegetarian  Philosophy.— James  Madison 
Allen,  Springfield,    Mo. — 15  cts. 
A  new  and  improved  edition  of  this  very 

excellent  compilation  of  Vegetarian  ^ts  and 

arguments. 


Basic   Elements  of  a  New  System  of    Life, 
designed  as  a  foundation  of  a  Humane  & 
Peaceful     Civilization.-— James    M.     Allen. 
Springfield,    Mo.— 25  cts. 
TTiis  is  a  development  of  Mr.  Allen's  social 

system  of    ethics   and  spiritual     philosophy 

giving  the  Constitution  of  the    Co-operative 

Brotherhood. 


The  World's  Advanced  Thought. — Lucy  A. 
.   Mallory,  Portland,  Oregon.     50c.  a  year. 

This  high  toned  and  exceedingly  interesting 
paper  published  by  an  earnest  vegetarian  and 
deep  thinker  has  reached  its  tenth  volume.  It 
takes  high  spiritual  ground  in  advance  of  the 
spiritualists  generally  and  insists  on  a  pure 
life  as  the  only  true  spirituality. 


Test  RecipeBook. — Mrs.  Henry  Lumpkin  Wil- 
son, Atlanta,  Georgia.  75  cte. 
Mrs.  Wilson  is  chairman  of  committee  on 
Agriculture  and  Horticulture,  Board  of  Wom- 
en Managers,  International  Exposition,  At- 
lanta, Ga.  The  book  contains  very  choice  re- 
cipes for  various  preparations  of  animals,  veg- 
etables and  fruits  and  some  good  recipes  for 
preparations,  many  of  which  are  suitable  for 
Vegetarians.  We  will  ^ive  examples  of  the 
recipes  useful  for  Vegetarians  in  our  Home  De- 
partment. 


Disease  :  its  Nature,  Cause,  Efiects.  Preven- 
tion and  Cure. — F.  M.  R.  Spendlove,  M.  D. 
Parti.  The  Natnre  of  Disease.  10  cts. 
This  is  the  first  of  a  series  of  tracts  in  which 
the  cell  theory  of  physiology  and  anatomy  is 
made  very  clear  to  the  reader  by  diagram  of 
the  magnified  living  cell  and  by  explaining  in 
simple  language  and  illustrating  the  most  dif- 
ficult features  of  the  cell  theory  and  its  relation 
to  life,  health  and  disease.  The  tides  of  the 
human  body  are  also  explained  so  as  to  throw 
light  on  the  mysteries  of  life.  The  tract  is  the 
most  scientific  of  all  the  treatises  we  have  met 
with.  It  takes  strong  ground  against  taking 
into  the  body  the  decomposing  substances  de- 
rived from  slaughtered  beasts  as  a  quotation 
form  it  elsewhere  will  show.  It  will  be  a  val 
unbic  aid  to  the  cau^e  of  pure  living. 

43 


d  by  Google 


\{om^  apd  0arde9 


ALL  FLESH  MEAT  POISONED. 

Always  kill  a  wounded  bird  or  other  aiiuna.1 
as  soon  as  you  can.  All  sufiering  of  any  crea- 
ture, just  before  it  dies,  poisons  tlie  meat. — 
Our  Durnt)  Animals. 

llien  nil  meat  is  poisoned  as  no  animal  is 
slaujfhtered  witbout  intense  suffering  just  be- 
fore it  dies.  There  may  be  cases  where  it  is 
mercJAil  to  kill  an  animal  and  that  is  the  only 
excuse  for  killing.  "Hie  poisoning  of  the  meat 
is  a  minor  consideration  as  it  is  the  poison  in 
the  meat  that  censes  the  flavor  for  which  it  is 
most  highly  esteemed  and  also  its  stimulating 
quality.  Wash  away  all  the  poisonous  quality 
of  meat  which  is  detained  in  its  dark  venous 
blood,  and  the  meat  would  become  insipid. 
Game  is  considered  all  the  richer  for  being 
"  ripened  "  after  it  is  killed,  and  it  then  con- 
tains ptomaines  or  poisons  in  latter  quantity 
than  when  fresh  killed. 


AN  E\'ER  INCREASING  JOY. 
I  cannot  express  my  joy  that  F.,  H.  &  G.  is 
again  on  its  feet.  I  received  copies  just  as  I 
was  leaving  home  for  a  few  days  of  field  work, 
and  could  hardly  wait  to  express  my  delight 
that  your  earnest  effort  to  pnt  F.,  H.  a  G.  on 
a  solid  foundation  was  measnrably  successful 
and  that  the  outlook  grows  brighter.  I  do 
hope  that  all  vegetarians  will  see  to  it  that 
you  have  the  support  that  yon  deserve.  Mon- 
ey is  closer  with  us  than  last  year  but  we  shall 
try  and  do  our  share  as  we  can  for  the  support 
of  the  paper.  With  each  year  we  see  more  and 
more  the  advantages  of  a  vegetarian  diet. 


It  is  an  ever  increasing  joy  to  us  to  be  able 
to  say  that  nothing  dies  that  we  may  feed 
upon  its  corpse.  The  soul  growth  is  so  mach 
greater.  God  is  nearer  and  all  nature  dearer 
to  us. 

With  best  of  wishes  for  the  greatest  success 
of  all  yonr  effbrto.  Yours  for  that  better  day 
when  they  shall  no  more  hurt  or  destroy  be- 
cause all  shall  be  filled  with  the  knowledge  of 
the  Lord. — Lydia  A.  Irons,  Athol,  Idaho. 


THE  MILLTILLIONAIRE. 
In  a  book  with  the  above  title  by  M,  An- 
burre'  Hovorre'',  giving  a  description  of  the 
ideal  or  Bardic  state  to  which  the  various  re- 
forms are  believed  to  be  leading,  the  following 
is  the  account  of  the  "  Delectable  Dining  Sa- 

L&   MBKT  Db  CARAVANSERY. 


ABHORRENCE  AT  MEAT  EATING. 
My  abhorrence  of  meat  eating  increases,  if 
possible.  The  worid  will  never  be  a  place  of 
peace  and  love  as  long  as  the  slaughter  of  ani- 
mals— for  food  or  anything  else — is  tolerated. 
What  a  spectacle  that,  of  young  boys  or  girls 
being  employed  at  this  ghoulish  business  and 
growing  up  calloused  and  unconcerned  at  the 
sights  of  agony  and  cruelty  that  should  make 
angels  weep.  I  consider  vegetarianism  second 
to  no  cause  in  the  world,  not  even  to  our  own 
Anti-vivisection  cause.  Success  attend  thee! 
— Mrs.  Fairchild  Allen,  Aurora,  111. 


le.  Milk.  Cocoa. 

AUktncte.       CEREALS.    411  kinds. 

AU  ktndl.       BREAD.    All  kinds. 
CAKSS.    All  kinds, 
iliemlco,  Fnilto,  Podding,  Null.  Cnam. 
GRAND 


OTBnseade. 


Ban  dejupltn from  Pl«net  Joplter. 

Eau  de  Neptune from  Plonel  Neptnne. 

EsD  de  Venas from  Pliinel  Venui. 

Indeed  a  most  Godly  Menu.  Yet,  doubt- 
less, a  Nineteenth  Century  pagan,  with  his 
beastly  appetite,  would  gape  in  wonder,  and 
fancy  something  lacking,  when  he  perceived 
the  absence  of  all  meat  dishes,  fish,  et  cetera. 
Happily  our  science  and  experience  have  dis- 
covered to  us  not  only  the  superfluity  of  such 
meat  dishes,  but  the  utter  beastliness  and  bar- 
barism Of  indulgence  in  a  meat  or  fish  diet. 
We  would  as  soon  think  of  swallowing  a  live 
snake,  as  goi^ng  onr  stomachs  with  birds, 
cattle  and  fish,  which  is  indeed  a  species  of 
cannibalism,  Man  (himself  an  animal)  devour- 
ing another  animal.  Further,  we  know  that 
such  beastly  foods  tend  to  lower  the  intellect, 
and  cause  brutal  passions  similar  to  those  of 
the  animals  devoured,  while  vegetable  and 
fruit  foods  conduce  to  higher  refinement  of  the 


July. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  \\oa\^  affd  (^rdep 


faculties  to  deeper  culture,  peace  of  mind  and 
iatellectaal  Wisdom. 

In  the  prininl  days,  or  ages  of  man,  during 
famines,  he  may  have  been  justified  in  living 
upon  a  meat  diet,  but  we,  in  our  Intellectual 
Age.  ivho  have  an  abundance  of  Cereals,  Prait 
Poods  and  Vegetables,  have  not  the  least  nee- 
essitj  for  indulgence  in  such  beastly,  barbaric 
diet. 

Neither  do  we  slaughter  birds  or  animals  for 
sport(?)  We  see  no  sport  in  the  torture  and 
slanghter  of  harmless  birds  and  animals. 
"Therefore  no  "angling"  or"hunting,"  or 
the  indulgence  of  any  similar  sports  of  barbar- 
ians or  beasts  is  now  allowed.  All  of  our  pas- 
times are  intellectual  and  refined.  We  are  no 
longer  a  barbaricpeople  in  any  respect,  and  do 
not  crave  for  murderous  sports.  We  are  a 
Bardic  People  and  enjoy  Bardic  diversions. 

Neither  do  we  indulge  in  tobacco,  wine  or 
other  poisonous  luxuries.  We  find  luxury 
enough  without  indulging  ia  poison  for  a  lux- 

During  the  progress  of  the  Dinner  we 
&nd  ourselves  enchanted  by  the  most  soul- 
enrapturing  harmonies,  tuning  our  hearts 
to  love  sublime,  as  the  delectable  melodies  is- 
sue fragrantly  from  colossal  pillars  of  music 
artistically  placed  here  and  there  throughout 
the  Grand  Salon, — an  octagonal  Salon  five 
hundred  feet  in  depth  and  two  thousand  feet 
in  diameter,  whose  spacious  capacity  admits 
one  million  people  at  one  seating. 

We  no  longer  have  human  waiters  but  elec- 
tric waiters,  which  ascend  from  the  cuisine  be- 
neath the  floor  in  the  centre  of  a  circular  table 
within  the  reach  of  all,  who  can  help  them- 
selves to  their  dishes  from  the  tray  or  waiter, 
their  orders  being  sent  by  the  pressure  of  an 
electric  signal  by  the  side  of  each  chair. 

Having  sated  our  appetites  we  ascend  by 
the  grand  elevators  to  the  Roof-Garden  to  iii- 
bale  the  mountainous  air  while  we  enjoy  our 
after-dinner  repose. 

All  our  Caravanseries  have  roof  gardens  of 
the  most  exquisite  beauty  of  Sowers  and  um- 


THE  ENGLEWOOD  BRANCH,  V.  S.  A. 

Having  just  received  and  devoured  tlie  in- 
teresting contents  of  the  June  number  of  tlie 
P.,  H.  ft  G.  I  wish  to  say  how  much  I  enjoy 
it,  also  to  say  only  one  society  of  Chicago  has 
been  represented,  and  while  all  love  and  look 
Up  to  Mr.  Snyder  as  president  of  the  Central 
Society  of  Chicago,  we  have  three  others. 

Ojir  Englewood  Society  organized  in  Oct., 
'95-  We  held  meetings  every  week  ;  then  two 
a  month,  now  we  have  the  one  monthly  meet- 
ing. 

The  four  societies  have  so  arranged  we  have 
one  meeting  each  week  indifierent  parts  of  the 
city.  Our  last  meeting  resnlted  in  the  reelec- 
tion of  Mrs.  Anna  I-eger,  as  president,  (she  is 
also  national  president  of  the  Patriotic  Tem- 
perance Pederation,  and  president  of  Engle- 
wood Y.  W.  C.  A.)  Mr.  Chas.  Sorley,  Vice 
Prest.,  Mrs.  Bell  Bom baugh.  Secy.,  Mr.  Chas. 
Weller,  Treas.  Among  our  membership  we 
have  the  president  of  the  Wood  Lawn  Wom- 
an's Chib  and  a  former  editor  of  the  Sanfran* 
Cisco  Examiner,  so  we  think  we  are  up  to 
date.  We  enjoy  the  magazine  and  wish  it  and 
all  other  Vegetarian  helps  all  success. — Anna 
I,eger,  444  Englewood  Ave.  Chicago,  JuneSth. 


A  GOOD  CHANCE  POR  A  GOOD  WOMAN. 

"  I  just  long  to  have  a  home  again  and  live 
with  a  good  lovable  gentle  wife  such  as 
I  formerly  had.  She  was  from  Torquay, 
Sonth  England.  I  am  looVing  for  a  Ger- 
man or  English  wife  although  nationality  is 
no  objection  if  she  be  a  true  sincere 
Vegetarian,  not  under  thirty  nor  more  than 
forty  years  of  age.  I  can  give  the  best 
of  recommends  as  to  character.  I  am  not 
a  wealthy  man  but  I  will  make  a  plain  con- 
tented person  a  pleasant  home.  I  would 
not  wish  a  walking  fashion  Journal  nor  one 
that  studies  the    latest  lashions." 

The  above  is  fromaman  personally  unknown 
to  us,  but  who  Is  a  good  and  liberal  friend  to 
our   cause. 


"Live  and  let  live"  is ihe  Vegetarian motlo. 


Rev.  A.  T.  de  Learsy's  address  is  now 
Wayne,  Nebraska,  having  been  called  thither 
by   the  Bishop  of  the  diocese. 


db,  Google 


RELATIVE    VALUE    OF    NUTS. 

Bv  Alfred  Howe. 

Time.*   Cow.    Meal.t   £ 


Black  Wstnutii 

41  m."         J  c. 

3m"        13  o»'. 

HPI. 

BTBlil  DUt> 

Kpt. 

Ili.jom.   ijc. 

7  o».       901. 

ipl. 

Haul    '■ 

J5  m.       IS  =. 

«pl. 

Htckny  nnts 

ti-i«pt. 

Hi«ll.h  walnul 

■  17  m.        15c. 

TKpt. 

AJmoDds 

6.10..    9.80.. 

Kpt. 

10.7  ox.  4.M  Oi 

■Hpt- 

•    The  time  oo 

apied  in  crack 

Dg  and  cirtracll 

ow   be  pnrcbsKd  already  extracted  from 

he  shelli,  but  tbty  do  nolkeep  u 

sood  In  that  coi 

adlUon. 

t    weight  of. 

A  GOOD  SUGGESTION. 
I  intend  to  circulate  samples  ol  the  Butter 
Oil  from  our  50  lb.  can.  This  wilt  help  to 
get  customers  for  the  article.  I  do  not  see 
why  the  V.  S.  A.  could  not  make  this  a  pay- 
ing enterprise,  at  least  aiding  towards  giving 
it  an  income  upon  which  to  exist.  Let  all 
Vegetarians  push  this  oil  so  as  to  drive  dis- 
gusting hog's  lard  from  the  Geld.  It  would 
be  a  preparatory  step  towards  interesting 
people  in  further  improvement  along  the  re- 
fomi  line. — Edward  E.  Howe,  iz8  W.  Tamarac 
St.,  Hazleton,  Pa.— The  Vegetarian  Society, 
Manchester,  England  has  a  well  sustained 
depot  for  the  sale  of  Vegetarian  sp>ecialties. 
This  is  what  we  are  aiming  at  in  this  countiy 
and  we  trust  our  Vegetarian  friends  will 
sustain  the  effort. 


JULY  MENU  FOR  A  PICNIC  DINNER. 

Table  Decoration  :    Yellow  Dalalea  and  Petos. 

Bananas.  Cherries. 

Egg  Sandwiches.         Pickled  beela.         Savory  omelet. 

Lettuce.  Tomatoes.  Lentil  Salad. 

Salad  Drcnlug. 

Brown   bread.  Oat-meal  cracken. 

Currant   larta.  Nut  Cake. 

Brown  Bread  Cream.  Pineapple  Ice, 

Spring  water.  Caramel  Coflee. 

RECIPES, 

Egg  Sandwiches. 
Mince  hard-boiled  eggs  very   fine.     Spread 
evenly  upon    thin  slices  of  buttered    bread, 
46 


sprinkle  over  with  grated  cheese  and  finely 
chopped  parsley.    Season  to  taste. 

Salad  Dressing. 
One  egg,  one  teaspoonfiil  each  of  mustard 
and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  fionr  and 
sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cream.  Mixthe  other 
ingredients  with  the  cream  and  add  the  egg 
well  beaten.  To  this  add  one  small  cup  of 
vinegar  and  2  tablespoons  of  water.  Boil 
slightly  and  then  add  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut. — Contributed, 

Savory  Omelet. 
6  ounces  of  bread  without  crust,  four  eggs, 
one-half  ounce  of  parsley.  Soften  the  bread 
by  pouring  cold  water  upon  it,  cover  and  let 
remain  an  hour ;  mash  with  a  fork  taking 
out  the  hard  lumps.  Add  the  parsley  chopped 
fine,  and  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Season  to 
taste.  Drop  by  tablespoons  on  a  well  greased 
griddle  and  fiy  brown. 

Currant  Tarts, 
Roll  out  some  paste  about  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  it  in  round  cakes  about  three 
inches  across,  then  cut  a  circle  2  inches  in 
diameter,  from  the  center,  wet  the  edges  with 
as  little  water  as  possible,  and  lay  the  rims 
on  each  cake.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  Lay  them  on  a  dish,  when  quite  cold 
fill  with  curtail t  jelly. 

Selected    from     Cald  Dishet  far  Hoi   Wtathtr. 
BEBTS, 

Cook  and  peel  the  beets ;  when  cold  cut 
into  rounds,  place  in  a  deep  dish,  and  cover 
with  vinegar ;  add  a  little  salt. 

Brown  Bread  Cream. 

Grate  as  fine  as  possible  stale  brown  bread  ; 
take  2  tables poonfnls  and  soak  in  a  quart  of 
cream  two  or  three  hours,  and  sweeten  to 
taste.     Freeze, 

Pineapple    Ice. 

Grate  i  good  sized  pineapple  or  2  small 
ones  ;  .idd  to  the  grated  pine  3   pts.  of  water. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  Horn^  apd  QardeQ 


half  a  pound  of  sugar,  and  if  the  pine  be  very 
sweet  the  strained  juice  of  i   or  3   lemons. 
Strain  through  a  cloth,  und  freeze. 
Lentil  Salad. 

Cook  the  lentila  in  salted  water,  and  drain. 
Put  the  lentils  in  a  bowl,  and  add  i  chopped 
ooion;  stir  iu  i  tablesoonful  of  chopped  par- 
sley ;  add  some  chopped  egg  and  shred 
lettuce;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  oil,  and 
vinegar,  and  decorate  with  parsley. 
Nut  Caeb. 

Take  2  tablespoon  fills  of  butter,  a  cups  of 
sugar,  3  beaten  eggs,  i  cup  of  milk,  3  cups 
of  flour,  I  teaspoonfol  of  baking-powder,  i 
pint  of  mixed  uuts,  blanched  and  chopped  ; 
flavor  with  vanilla.  Put  in  a  buttered  tin  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

From  the    Trilnd  Ricipe  Cook  Book. 

Slaw. 

To  I  beaten  egg  add  2  tablespoons  of  sttgar, 
a  level  teaspoon  of  flonr,  a  heaping  one  of 
mtistard,  a  tablespoon  of  batter  and  a  cup 
of  vinegar.  Put  into  a  stew  pan,  and  when 
hot,  add  I  quart  of  finely-shredded  cabbage, 
with  a  little  salt  sprinkled  over  it.  Stew  5 
minutes.  To  be  eaten  hot  or  cold. 
Nastortidm  Sandwiches. 

Cut  some  white  or  brown  bread  very  thin, 
and  spread  with  the  most  delicate  fresh  butter. 
Then  pick  some  nasturtiums,  choosing  the 
youngest  and  most  perfect  in  form  and  color. 
Separate  the  petals,  lay  them  between  two 
pieces  of  the  wafered  bread  and  butter,  and 
add  a  sprinkling  of  salt  and  white  pepper. 
The  crimson  petals  should  peep  out  between 
theedges  of  the  bread. 

Potato  Sodpples. 

Boil  four  good-sized  potatoes,  mash  and 
pass  through  a  sieve.  Scald  in  a  clean  sauce- 
pan half  teacup  sweet  milk  and  tablespoon  of 
butter  \  add  to  the  potato  with  a  little  salt  and 
white  pepper,  and  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  one 
at  a  time  the  yolks  of  foureggs,  beating  thor~ 
oughly  ;  drop  a  pinch  of  salt  into  the  whites 
and  beat  them  toa  stiS'froth.  Add  them  to 
the  mixture,  beating  as  little  as  possible. 
Have  ready  a  buttered  baking  dish  large 
enongh  to  let  the  souffle  rise  without  running 

1896 


over  ;    bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven. 
Serve  at  once  in  the  dish  it  was  baked  in. 


ARTISTIC  LIVING. 
The  address  of  Dr.  Alice  B.  Stockham  before 
the  Chicago  Vegetarian  Society,  June  17,  1896 
at  the  Great  Northern  Hotel,  was  listened  to 
by  an  appreciative  audience.  The  Dr.'s  sub- 
ject was  "  Artistic  Living"  and  in  a  skillful 
and  clear  cut  manner  she  conclusively  showed 
the  vast  importance  of  never  for  a  moment 
losing  sight  of  the  artistic  and  beautious  in  all 
of  life's  details  no  matter  how  low  or  humble. 
Bringing  this  idea  of  the  artistic  to  bear  upon 
the  Kitchen  and  Dining-room,  she  dwelt  im- 
pressively upon  the  blunting  effect  of  animal 
food  upon  the  sensibilities,  showing  it  to  be 
entirely  unnecessary  as  regards  actual  needs 
for  nutrition  and  sustaining  of  human  life 
as  the  facts  that  the  strongest  and  most  robust 
people  in  the  world  are  to  be  found  among 
those  who  never  use  any  flesh  as  food,  are 
accessible  to  all  who  feel  inclined  to  investigate. 
She  also  dwelt  with  effect  upon  the  dragging 
down  to  lower  levels  of  thought  and  concep- 
tion of  thisconstantslaughter  of  animals  on  all 
concerned  from  he  who  wields  the  ax  or  knife 
up  to  those  who  devour  in  acquiescence  to  a 
pampered  and  unnatural  appetite  under  the 
pretence  that  it  is  a  necessity. — F.  E.  Green, 
Cor.  Sec.  C.  V.  S. 


THOROUGHLY  CONVINCED. 
The  habit  of  a  non-meat  diet  having  been 
fixed,  I  am  pleased  to  acknowledge  the 
benefits  of  it.  I  am  convinced  that  I  shall 
continue  io  that  manner  of  living  to  the  end. 
I  found  that  it  is  a  habit  easily  acquired, 
without  temptations,  and  one  that  appeals 
to  the  sense  of  justice  of  my  friends,  who  so 
often  express  a  wish  that  they  might  follow 
my  example.  June,  1891.  This  I  intended 
to  have  sent  you  some  time  ago.  I  am  still, 
after  an  additional  experience  of  oeerly  five 
years  of  the  same  mind,  thoroughly  convinced. 
—Mrs.  A.  Haviland.  623  E.  139th  St.,  N.  Y. 


A  farmer  in  New  Jersey  is  reported  as  net- 
ting |iooo  on  4   acres    of  strawberries    this 


Digitized  hy  Google 


PLANTING  THE  PECAN.  PROGRESS   IN  HORTICULTURE. 

Planting  35x35     elves     thirty-elx 

trees,  at  $5  per  tree  yields  $180  per  "^^^  progress  made  towards  vegetarianism   in  horticul- 

acre-   35x35  and     one     In     centre  ^^^^  ^^  shown  by  the  change  in  the  display  made  by  the 

.yi..<i»    oii-iv^n^    .^o       »    «i;    ™.  ^^^  Kfot^rs  Sid    hucksters.     When    we    were    bovs  the 

square    Bixty-one    trees   at   ;^  per  apple  barrel  and  basket  with  a  few  strings  of  old  time  dried 

tree  yields  S305  per  acre;  20x20.  the  apples,  made  the  fruit  display.     The  potato  bag  and  barrel 

square  method.  109  trees  at  J5  per  ^rith  a  few  heads  of  cabbage  made  the  show  of  vegetables. 

tree,   yields  5545  per  acre;  20x20,  Contrast  thepresent  display  withtheshowand  sale  of  fruits 

the  equilateral  triansle,   126  at  S5  and  vegetables  50  or  6o  years  ago!     Now  the  fruits  of  all 

per  tree,  yields  $630  per  acre.  cliiues  are   before  the  public  in  the  most  tempting  variety. 

By    planting    the    latter    method  Fresh  fruits,  canned    fruits,  dried  and  evaporated   fruits 

ten  acres  In  the  Post's  select  thin-  come  to  the  front  in  the  most    fascinating  ways.     The  in- 

ahell   pecans    see   what   a  royal   In-  crease  in  the  culture  and  production  of  fruits  and  the   large 

come  at  only  SI  ner  tree'  The  fact  li^ant'l^'es  required  to  meet    the    demand    also    indicate 

progress. 

Is,  II  will  be  nearer  ?10  per  tree  than  ^he  business  as  at  present  carried  on,  may  be   said  to 

So.   for  the  demand  for  such  nuu  have  been  built  Up  in  a  generation  and  the  demand   is 

for  planting  will  take  aU  grown  at  steadily    increasing,— O,   M,    Cadwell,  Carpenteria,  Santa 

hlffh  prices  for  years  to  come.  What-  Barbara  Co.,  California. 


INTEREST    IN    GARDENING. 


ever  you  plant,  you  will  find  noth- 
ing   equals    the   pecan    for   profit.— 
Herbert  Post,  Port  Worth,  Tex.,  In  We  are  often  surprised  at  the  want  of  interest  even  in- 
New  York   Sun.  telligent    people   take   in   gardening.    We  have  known 

! persons  of  ample  grounds  for  growing  flowers,  fruits  and 

soMB  HARDY  TRRBS.  vegetables  leftve  almost  everything  to  hired  help,  and  take 

"*?'r^'"t'™'JT,''"""r"  **'"*  bat    little    interest    in    the    garden    except  to  eat    of   its 

very  hatdy  by  T.  H.  Hukliu  of  Vermont:  pfoJu;^                      •                       ■ 

The  Ajlatic  popljir,    which    grawt   rapldlr  "«,'                  ,         .,     -i.,              r                            .-      i-r 

from  cuttings.  It  is  laid  to  be  s  «iuBbie  Such  pcrsous  losc  their  bcst  chance  for  enjoyment  in  hie. 
timtxrtne.  Eiirajriui  anx-m/oiium  ptovrt  They  shut  themselves  up  in  warm  rooms  in  winter,  and 
perfectly  iiardy  and  a  npid  grower  In  in  summer  avoid  the  suushine  and  so  they  become  chronic 
northetuiiern  Vermont.  It  la  a  nry  striking  invalids  whereas  if  they  would  live  and  work  in  their  gar- 
tree.  119  thorns  are  sharp  aaneediea.  and  iiB  deus  and  make  a  Study  of  the  shrubs,  the  flowers  and  the 
small,  thick,  olive  green  foliage  hidei  them  birds,  working  With  nature,  the  glow  of  health  would 
from  notice,  shepherdia  argenta,  a  tall,  come  to  their  cheeks  and  happiuess  to  their  hearts.  Veg- 
i  n  rniiched  small  tree,^noied  for  iu  gfarians  especially  should  take  an  interest  in  their 
1  y  Bswc    "   "   ■"-'■ — ^'-  gardens. 

The  suburb,  of  large  cities  are  the  most  ^    DESIRABLE      SHRUB. 
prontable   places  on    which   to  grow  small 

frniis  and  the  electric  ear  companies  now  Tecotno  slans  IS  a  very  decorative  lawn  plant,  stately  in 

running  out  lo  the  Bubuihs  In  every  direction  appearance  and  with  vivid  green   foliage  and  golden  yel- 

i™™f™h'^ft"u™'i'''tiiod''°te  '''V"''''th'*  low,  trumpet  shaped  blossoms.  It  blooms  continuously  and 

fr'nit  could  be  bought  aortateiTon'ihe  day  P>'of'*sely,  and  its  branches  are  often  weighed  down  with  its 

it  isgathered  wealth   of  flowers.     The  assurance  is  g^iven  in    Gardening 

._ that   if  cut  down  by  frost  it  soon   grows    up  again.     Its 

PRAR  fiuGHT.  blossoms  are  followed  by  peculiarly  shaped  fruit,  each  of 

A  writer  in  the   Mayfiower  recommends  which  contains  a  hard  shelled  Seed  wbidi,  when  planted, 

.    the  disuse  of  siabie  manure  for  pear  or-  germinates  very  readily.     The  plant  is  also  increased  by 

^a-ds,  so  as  to  P«™"<  "|'  black  blight.  ^^^  division  and  from  cuttings.     When  in  the  prime  of  ite 

me  di'sl^v^'That  Mimai  ^n'i^eTI!  beauty.  that    is.  when   covered  with  blossoms  and  fruit,  it 

duciive  of  that  stimulated  condition  of  ihe  *^*"s  forth  exclamatioQS  of  praise  from  all  whii  behold  it. 

tree  in  which  it  can  be  affected  by  btigiil.  — Home. 


Joty, 

d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


Mr.   and   Mrs.  Albert    H.   Snvd 


Digitized  by  Google 


pood,  \\om^  apd  (jardepj! 


Vol.  I,  No.  4,  New  Series. 


FEBRUARY,  1897. 


Whole  Nombeb,  76. 


MR.  AND  MRS.  ALBtRT  H.  SNYDER. 


WE  have  great  pleasure  in  presenting 
half-tone  portraits  of  Mr.  and  Mrs, 
Albert  H.  Snyder.  The  pictnre  was 
taken  at  the  time  of  their  marriage  last 
year  and  would  have  Appeared  at  the 
time  had  our  issue  of  Food  been  made 
as  nsual.  But  we  are  sure  our  readers  will  be 
well  pleased  to  get  them,  for,  although  Mr. 
Snyder  has  retired  from  the  presidency  of  tlie 
Society  he  founded,  he  is  still  earnestly  devo- 
ted to  the  work  which  has  prospered  so  well 
under  his  zealous  management. 

Mr.  Anderson  Blakely,  who  kindly  fnm- 
nished  ns  a  sketch  for  publication  wrote: 

Mr.  Snyderisathorough  going  Chicagoanas 
is  evidenced  by  the  remarkable  progress  that 
this  youthful  society  has  made  since  it  was 
founded  in  Chicago's  pretty  lakeside  suburb, 
Roger's  Park,  about  Uiree  years  ago.  The 
society  has  grown  from  a  charter  membership 
of  five  to  a  large  Central  organization  meeting 
in  the  largest  hotel  in  Chicago,  flourishing 
with  branch  organizal  ions  in  several  suburt» 
all  of  which  hold  regular  monthly  meetings 
and  have  enrolled  as  members  a  number  of  the 
most  prominent  professional  men  and  society 
people  of  the  city. 

Mr.  Snyder  is  full  of  life  and  determination 
and  brings  these  characteristics  in  a  very 
marked  manner  into  his  society  work.  The 
big  banquet  given  in  the  banquet  rooms  of  the 
Great  Northern  Hotel,  Christmas,  1895  and 
the  second  one  at  the  Auditorium,  Thanks- 
giving, 1896,  are  very  largely  liis  work,  and 
the  success  of  these  occasions  commanded  the 
admiration  of  the  society  throughout  the 
country.  It  is  quite  natural  for  him,  however, 
to  give  a  large  part  of  his  time  and  energies 
to  vegetarian  work,  for  he  has  been  a  re- 
specter of  life  practically  from  the  days  of  his 
childhood.  Early  in  life  he  evinced  a  dislike 
for  flesh  as  food  in  any  form,  a  dislike  so 
pronounced  that  it  seemed  almost  instinctive. 
Nor  has  this  method  of  living  been  without 
manifest  advantage.  Asa  result,  sickness  has 
never  absented  him  from  business  a  day  in 
his  life,  although  known  as  a  hard  and  untir- 
ing worker  both  during  and  after  working 
hours.  In  fact  he  considers  a  healthy  vege- 
tarianism as  practically  a  preventive  of  germ 
diseases,  citing  the  peculiar  fact  that  out  of 
a  family  of  eight  children,  he  being  the  only 


representative  of  vegetarian  principles 
while  diphtheria  in  its  worst  form  invaded  his 
home  during  two  succesive  winters,  he  aloUe 
escaped. 

By  profession  Mr.  Snyder  is  a  newspaper 
man.  He  became  connected  with  amateur 
journalism  while  attending  school  and  during 
this  time  was  elected  corresponding  secretary 
of  the  Mutual  Benefit  Amateur  Pr^ss  Associa- 
tion. Later  he  became  Recording  Secretary 
of  the  National  Amateur  Press  Association. 
These  two  associatious,  on  account  of  differ- 
ences of  long  standing;  had  been  working  at 
cross  purposes,  and  it  was  purposed  to  arrange 
some  basis  of  compromise.  The  President  of 
the  Mutual  Benefit  Amateur  Press  Association 
sent  Mr.  Snyder  to  represent  him  at  the  con- 
vention of  the  rival  organization  at  Buffalo, 
empowered  him  to  negotiate  a  settleinent  at 
that  gathering,  and  it  was  largely  owing  to 
his  diplomatic  efforts  that  the  warring  associa- 
tion became  reunited.  Subsequently  he  organ- 
ized the  Chicago  Amateur  Jo nmalists.  Club. 

During  the  past  seven  years  Mr.  Snyder 
has  been  connected  with  several  newspaper 
ventures,  some  of  wbidi  he  was  the  founder. 
He  is  perhaps  best  known  in  Chicago  as 
Secretary  of  the  Managing  Editor  of  the 
Chicago  Evening  Post,  the  best  known  and 
most  influential  independent  evening  paper 
of  Chicago.  His  wide  experience  in  these 
fields  has  given  him  a  peculiar  fitness  for  his 
efforts  in  ethical  work,  and  his  extensive 
acquaintance  in  Chicago  has  made  hosts  of 
friends  for  the  Vegetarian  cause.  These  facts 
go  far  toward  explaining  the  phenomenal 
success  which  the  present  Chicago  organiza- 
tion has  had  since  its  founding  in  Roger's 
Park  three  years  ago,  and  the  unostentatious 
way  in  which  the  work  is  performed  makes 
co-operation  with  him  a  great  pleasure. 

Mr.  Snyder  is  at  present  advertising  man- 
ager of  tbe  American  Boiler  Company  of  New 
York  and  Chicago,  the  largest  manufacturers 
of  house  heating  boilers  in  the  world.  He  is 
a  young  man  of  intense  business  activity, 
combined  with  a  keen  insight  of  human 
nature  and  remarkable  executive  ability, 
making  him  an  exceptionally  successful  man 
of  business.  These  natural  gifts,  together 
with  his  pronounced  views  on  healthful  living 
along  the  lines  of  abstention  from  flesh,  alco- 
hol, and  condiments,  give  to  him  a  wealth 
of  power  that    is   to-day     possessed    by    but 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  J^om^  ai)d  dardep 


HOW  TO  ABOLISH    BRUTALITY. 
Miss  E.  S.  Oakey. 

When  I  go  among  the  people  and  hear  those 
in  different  stations  discuss  the  difficnl  ties  that 
are  to  be  met  with  in  life,  and  often  describing 
the  brutal  and  mean  conduct  of  so  many,  I 
say :  if  all  were  vegetarians  on  principle  ;  be- 
lieving, tfaat'God  gave  men  at  the  beginning 
his  proper  food,  and  so  believing  in  the  merri- 
ful  and  Personal  God  of  Revelation,  and  in  no 
abstraction,  brutality  in  all  its  forms  would 
disappear. 

Those  who  prefer  animal  to  any  other  food 
are  the  roughest  and  noisest,  (I  make  no  excep- 
tion), all  observant  persons  will  uphold  me  in 
this  assertion.  Let  any  one  calmly  begin  to 
observe  from  this  standpoint,  and  my  asser- 
tion is  proved,  A  vegetarian  is  one  to  whom 
dissensions,  noise  and  confusion  are  things 
from  which  he  retires,  and  to  which  he  feels 
himself  quite  an  outsider.  When  any  ques- 
tion arises,  observe  how  he  meets  it.  With 
anger?  Oh  no.  With  warmUi?  Yes.  But 
withal  a  sweet  dignity.  Harshness  has  no 
place  in  the  Christian  Vegetarian's  heart.  One 
of  the  questions  much  discussed  just  now  in 
the  daily  papers  is  that  of  a  game  as  it  is 
called  (Poot-ball.)  Do  you  think  such  a 
"game"  wonld  be  in  vogue  were  vegetarian 
life  common  ?  It  would  not  be  possible.  Are 
any  who  play  that  game  vegetarians?  Of 
course  not. 

A  child  who  sits  opposite  to  me  at  table 
where  lam  stopping  just  now,  is  five  years 
old,  eats  meat  at  every  meal,  and  I  was  in- 
formed on  his  first  introduction  to  me,  when 
some  inquiries  were  madeby  the  keeper  of  the 
hoase  regarding  my  diet,  that  this  child  de- 
lights in  seeing  chickens  killed  and  \sallowed  to 
witness  the  operation — the  mother  of  the  child 
seems  to  think  this  delight  in  cruelty  a  very 
amusing  characteristic  in  her  son.  I  observe 
that  this  boy  treats  his  mother  with  no  respect, 
and  is  cunning  and  deceitful.  All  this  at  five 
years  old.  Another  animal  is  growing  up  in 
the  world,  not  so  mildand  gentle  as  the  horse 
or  cow.  I  am  also  told  by  the  mother,  (she 
is  a  member  of  our  own  communion  (Episco- 
palian) that  the  child  has  never  been  taught  to 


utter  a  prayer.  Would  this  be  possible  in  the 
case  of  a  Christian  V^etarian  parent?  No. 
Emphatically  no. 


TOTAL  ABSTINENCE  THE  BEST. 

I  am  enthusiastic  on  the  subject  of  Vegeta- 
rianism. Meat  has  not  entered  our  bill  of 
fare  for  three  years.  We  find  an  abundant 
supply  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  We  are 
all  in  better  health  since  we  quit  even  the 
occasional  use  of  flesh  meat.  If  auimal  food, 
even  animal  products,  were  excluded  entirely 
from  the  human  bill  of  fare  I  am  confident 
there  would  be  a  marked  improvement  in  the 
general  health  of  our  people. 

Your  little  publication  sets  many  people  to 
thinking  and  no  doubt  converts  a  targe  pro- 
portion of  its  readers  to  a  non-flesh  diet. — 
ElizaH.  Stair,  M.  D. 


"  LIVE  AND  LET  LIVE." 
The  time  has  been  when  belief  of  aSnpreme 
Personality  who  held  man  accountable  for  his 
acts  was  almost  universal ;  but  the  higher 
consciousness  discovers  that  the  power  which 
holds  men  accountable  is  located  within ; 
it  knows  that  the  account,  good  or  bad,  must 
be  settled  by  the  judge  within;  and  that 
individual  redemption  can  be  effected  only 
by  overcoming  the  evil  within  by  the  good 
within.  And  the  seed  of  this  saying,  "cleanse 
thyself,"  is  producing  a  beautiful  growth  of 
Vegetarian  ideas.  How  clean  and  spiritual 
they  seem.  Evolution  speed  them !  until 
notasoul  shall  be  found  in  all  ourbroadland, 
unawakened  to  the  noble  sentiment  "Live 
and  Let  Live,"  and  who  is  not  imbued  with 
the  spirit  of  humanitarianism,  to  feel  that 
all  men  are  brothers  and  all  life  is  kin. — 
A.  H.  Bradbury,  Norway,    Maine. 


NEVER  GIVE  UP. 
I  feel  as  if  it  is  very  hard  to  wait  for  the 
coming  peace  and  kindness  towards  nil  crea- 
tures. Will  it  ever  come  in  this  world  ?  I 
often  doubt  it  there  are  so  few  willing  to  fore- 
go their  own  pleasure,  and  sweet  refined 
people  are  as  cruel  as  the  others  rather  than 
sacrifice  their  pleasures  at  the  table. — Mrs.  J. 
A.  Drake,  Flushing,  N.  Y. 

Feb, 


d  by  Google 


pood,  [iom^  aifd  Qarde^ 


pood,  \\otn^  apd  QardeQ 


PHILADELPHIA, 

FEB 

1897. 

Vcc«t*riu 

Societr  of  Amerlo, 

Pnbliihen 

tlona  (o  be  w 

■nl    to  310    Chntnnt  St 

REV. 

HBNRY    S.   CLUBB. 

alitor. 

Socti.,  fbar  S 

ubKripUon.    $1.00. 

raw. 

twtl«  iuaUona  i  doll 

trtion,  10 

o«,U. 

OUR  VACATION. 
An  involoutary  vacation  has  occurred 
itr  the  publication  of  Food,  Houb  &  Garden 
from  the  issue  of  July,  1896,  to  that  of  Feb- 
rnary,  1897,  a  period  of  six  months.  We  had 
arranged  with  the  Universal  Peace  Union  to 
have  the  use  of  a  room  for  our  printing  on 
the  premises  allotted  to  it  by  the  city  in  the 
east  wing  of  Independence  Hall,  for  certain 
editoinl  services  peribrmed  by  as.  Our  agree- 
ment was  for  a  year,  renewable  yearly,  if  no 
notice  was  received  prior  to  the  close  of  the 
year,  which  commenced  with  Dec.  1895. 
Bnt  owing  to  a  misunderstanding  between 
the  authorities  of  the  city  and  the  U.  P.  U. 
the  press  was  ordered  removed  from  the 
city  property  without  notice,  in  July.  It 
took  nearly  two  months  to  find  a  place  in 
which  to  put  it  up.  We  at  last  found  a  house 
at  loaj  Fonlkrod  St.,  Frankford,  Philadelphia, 
where  we  could  live  and  have  the  printing 
ofBce  so  as  to  avoid  expense  of  rent  and  car. 
We  first  ascertained  from  the  Suburban 
Electric  Co.  that  we  could  be  supplied  with 
motor  and  electric  power  for  the  press  and 
was  told  to  let  the  superintendent  know 
when  ready  for  the  power.  We  then  took  a 
lease  of  the  premises  for  5  years;  subject 
to  renewal  at  the  end  of  each  5  yeara  ;  had  an 
office  fitted  up  and  the  press  and  material 
removed  into  it.  The  shafting  was  put  up 
and  all  we  required  was  motor  and  power. 
We  notified  the  Suburban  Electric  Co.  that 
we  were  ready  for  these.  This  was  about  the 
loth  of  October,  1896.  We  waited  at  home 
day  after  day  expecting  the  motor  and  wire 
connection,  but  these  did  not  come,  so  we 
applied  at  the  office,  which  was  three  miles 

53 


away,  and  was  told  the  Superintendent  was 
very  busy  ;  had  more  than  he  could  attend 
to.  We  left  word  that  we  were  waiting  and 
wished  him  to  appoint  a  time  to  meet  for  an 
understanding.  No  response.  Waited  one 
week  after  another.  At  last  got  a  reply 
that  it  would  take  five  weeks  before  the 
work  could  be  done.  This  would  take  us 
till  Thanksgiving  time  when  we  were  to  be 
in  Chicago. 

On  our  return  from  Chicago  nothing  was 
done  and  we  were  kept  waiting  on  shorter 
promises  until  Jan.  i8lh,  1897,  when  the 
power  was  put  on  and  the  Vegetarian  press 
started  again  on  its  mission  work.  This 
number  is  largely  made  up  of  matter  that 
stood  over  from  July  to  January  waiting  for 
the  press.  The  next  number  will  we  trust 
be  up  to  date. 

Our  subscribers  have  shown  great  kindness 
and  patience,  only  one,  a  Chicago  lady,  hav- 
ing asked  for  the  return  of  subscription  which 
was  promptly  remitted. 

We  can  now  see  no  reason  why  we  should 
not  continue  the  issue  regularly  so  long  as 
health  and  life  shall  last  and  our  friends 
stand  by  us  by  promptly  remitting  subscrip- 
tions, donations  &c.  to  aid  us  in  this  work. 


BUTCHER'S  MEAT  AND  WAR. 
The  Lancet,  London,  while  admitting  the 
practicability  of  Vegetarianism,  opposes  it 
on  national  grounds  because  it  says  if  the 
people  of  India  had  been  eaters  of  botcher's 
meat,  they  could  not  have  been  conquered  by 
beef-eating  Englishmen.  This  is  an  udmis- 
sion  that  eating  butcher's  meat  will  cause 
men  to  become  the  best  butchers  of  their 
fellow  men.  Has  the  Lancet  no  higher  con- 
ception of  a  nation's  greatness  than  that 
of  brute  force?  The  brutal  treatment  of 
Eastern  nations  by  the  British  constitute  the 
most  shameful  features  of  modem  history. 
Taking  advantage  of  Ihe  peaceful  disciples 
of  Buddha  and  Confucious  who  were  opposed 
to  all  cruelty  and  slaughter!  We  do  not 
envy  the  greatness  of  a  nation  obtained  by 
hunian  bloodshed. 

Feb. 


d  by  Google 


;  pood,  ^om^  apd  (^rde^ 


We  expect  to  have  time  to  print  pamphlets, 
tracts  and  books,  as  well  as  other  job  work, 
at  our  new  printing  office.  Good  work  at 
moderate  prices  goaranteed.  Address  or  call 
at  310  Chestnut  St.,  or  come  to  the  printing 
ofacei     1023  Foulkrod  St.,  SUtion  F,  Phila. 


We  elsewhere  give  a   brief 
octogenarian  friend,  Robert  Wright,  who  waa 


Robert   Wright. 
a  life  member    of  the    Vegetarian  Society  of 
America.     We  here  present  a  half-tone  engrav- 
ing from  a  recent  photograph,  which  gives  a 
correct  representation  of  his  personal  appear- 


We  enclose  with  copy  of  February  number 
a  blank  to  use  by  our  subscribers  and  friends. 
If  each  one  to  whom  this  blank  is  sent  will 
kindly  fill  it  out  with  the  names  of  four  per- 
sons, periodicals,  libraries  or  other  institu- 
tions to  whom  they  desire  a  copy  of  F.,  H.  ft 
G.  sent  for  one  year  and  enclose  $1.00  for  the 
four  copies,  they  will  increase  our  circulation 
to  10,000  copies.     Pleasedo  this. 


We  have  received  a  supply  of  Health  Poods 
manufactured  by  the  Sanitarium  Health 
Food  Co.  and    samples  of  the  novel  produc- 


tions of  the  Sanatas  Food  Co.,  both  of  Battle 
Creek,  Mich.  All  who  desire  to  sample  same 
should  call  at  1023  Foulkrod  St.,  Station  P, 
Phila.  ComebyFrankford  «  Phila.  R.  R.  to 
Arrott  St.  Station  or  5th  or  3rd  Sts.  from  the 
eastern  part  of  Phila.  The  Vegetarian 
Society  Mill  can  also  be  seen  in  operation  at 
the  same  address. 


The  article  entitled  "A  Summary  of  Ar- 
guments for  Vegetarianism  by  Rev.  Wm. 
PennAlcott,"  has  been  printed  in  tract  form 
and  was  the  first  production  of  the  new  V.  S. 
A.  printing  o£Bce,  Foulkrod  St.,  Prankford, 
Phila.  A  few  hundred  copies  only  remain 
and  these  can  be  had  for  distribution  at  25  cts. 
a  dozen  or  $1.50  per  hundred.  Ifencour^ed 
by  the  sale  of  this  tract  we  propose  to  issue 
a  series  of  similar  tracts  for  distribution  in 
letters  and  otherwise.  Do  our  friends  desire 
to  aid  the  cause  by  keeping  Vegetarian  tracts 
on  their  desks  for  enclosure  in  letters? 
Write  us. 


The  meeting  in  Phrenological  Hall,  Fowler 
&  Wells's,  N.  Y.,  Nov.  23rd,  was  very  cor- 
dial and  a  good'evidence  of  earnestness  in  the 
N.  Y.  Vegetarian  Society.  The  Thanksgiv- 
ing service  in  the  morning  and  the  Banquet 
in  the  evening  at  the  Auditorium  Hotel, 
Chicago,  were  both  delightful  occasions  and 
so  was  the  meeting  subsequently,  on  the 
West  Side,  where  we  met  Mrs.  Le  Favre  who 
has  made  rapid  strides  since  we  saw  her 
before,  looking  ten  years  younger,  with  a 
complexion  of  ruddy  health  that  Hogarth 
would  have  delighted  to  portray.  Mr,  Green 
presided,  and  Mrs.  Green  was  there  too.  At 
Grand  Haven,  Mich,  we  were  delighted  to 
meet  Mrs.  Farr  whose  essay  on  Fruit  we  pub- 
lished last  summer,  and  Rev.  Lucy  E.  Texter, 
pastor  of  the  Unitarian  Church.  But  we 
cannot  now  find  room  to  even  mention  the 
many  delightful  features  of  the  trip,  among 
which  WAS  a  dinner  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Albert 
H.  Snyder  at  their  pleasant  home,  Roger's 
Park,  North  Chicago. 


Madam  aud  Madamoselle  Veigle,    the    first 
the  founder  and  the  last  the  secretary  of  the 


Digitized  byGoOgle- 


pood.  )4om^  apd  (jardeQ 


Women's  Vegetarian  Union,  are  doings  good 
work  in  and  abont  London,  England.  At  a 
meeting  held  by  the  Union  at  Limebouse  (a 
snburb,)  a  lecture  was  delivered  by  Miss 
Wardlov  Best  and  the  chair  occnpied  by 
the  zealous  Secretary  of  the  Union.  Miss 
Best  claimed  that  the  idea  that  animals  were 
"sent  (or  food"  was  an  excuse  for  the 
most  shamefal  cruelty  and  slaughter.  But 
rights  60  not  end  with  haman  beings:  all 
creatures  endowed  with  life  have  as  much 
right  to  it  as  we  have.  It  was  not-  a  question 
of  who  suffered  but  the  awfulnesx  of  suf- 
fering itself.  Madlle.  Veigle  gave  an  instance 
of  a  cow  that  died  of  grief  on  account  of  the 
death  of  her  calf  and  of  a  woman  arrested 
iUtreating  her  child.  She  said  what  was 
morally  wrong  could  not  be  physically  right 
or  uecessary.  When  will  the  ladies  of  America 
join  in  Union  against  the  wrong  done  to 
animals  by  slaughter  ?  Our  Societies  for  pre- 
vention of  Cruelty  to  Animals  only  punish 
offenders,  they  do  not  strike  at  the  root  of  the 
cruelty    which    is  the   flesh-eating  custom. 

SIR  ISAAC  PITMAN, 

One  of  the  best  known  of  the  vegetarians 
of  England,  was  bom  in  1813  and  died,  Jan. 
32,  1897,  he  was  therefore  84  years  of  age. 
We  had  the  pleasure  of  his  personal  acquain- 
tance from  1840,  when  his  first  large  book  on 
Phonography  appeared.  He  was  a  firm  veg- 
etarian, teetotalar  and  used  no  tobacco.  He 
was  a  most  inveterate  worker.  He  used  to 
commence  bis  labors  at  his  desk  at  4  o'clock 
a.  m.  and  with  slight  intervals  for  his  very 
^mple  meals,  continue  to  labor  till  10  o'clock 
p.  m.  He  was  a  tall,  somewhat  spare,  man, 
but  with  a  nerve  which  enabled  him  to  write 
with  great  rapidity  and  perspicuity. 

We  do  not  believe  that  any  four  beef-eaters 
conld  be  found  that  could  do  as  miich  intel- 
lectual work  in  a  day  as  did  Isaac  Pitman. 

He  worked  hard  every  day  in  the  week, 
preparing  his  Phonographic  publications  and 
writing  letters  to  his  friends  and  adberents, 
and  on  Sunday  he  preached  to  the  New  Jeru- 
salem Church,  Bath.  He  was  a  thorough 
Swedenborgian   in    practice     as  well    as     iu 

'897 


theory,  following .  Swedeuborg's  example 

to    food  as  well  as  the  constant    perfor 

of  uses.     On  the  Queen's  birthday,  May  24th, 


1895,  Victoria  did  honor  to  herself  by  conferr- 
ing Knighthood  upon  Isaac  Pitman,  at  the 
age  of  82,  soon  after  thejubilee  of  Phonogra- 
phy. 

From  this  time  his  wonderful  powers  of 
endurance  began  to  show  some  signs  of 
weakening  from  age  and  giving  the  printing 
and  publishing  business  over  to  his  sons,  he 
gradually  withdrew  from  the  labors  to  which 
he  had  been  accustomed  during  his  long  life. 
Last  summer  a  serious  illness,  his  first  and 
last  sickness,  commenced  which  a  tour  over 
Continental  Europe  failed  to  conqnor,  and 
this  winter  closed  his  earthly  pilgrimage. 
His  memory  will  always  be  held  in  the  high- 
est e.steem  by  those  who  practise  the 
Phonetic  art  and  specially  those  who  know 
of  his  pure  and  exalted  character  and  ex- 
emplary life. 

55 


d  by  Google 


pood,  ^om^  apd  (jarde^ 


A  SUMMARY    OF    ARGUMENTS  ROBERT    WRIGHT. 

\/nr^CT  A  DI  A  MICAfl  Robert,   SOD  of  Jonathan    and 

V  £LOC  I  rMXl/AlN  lOlVl.  and  Mary  Wright  was  bom   Feb. 

19th,  1817,    at    Keiehlev.    York- 

BYREV.WM.  PENNALCOTT.  .hire,  England.    Jonathan  Wright 

[Time     KaWmenU    bave     been    pnjMred      u     ■    tract     and    tbererore  Came  to  the  United  States    jn    1820 

llleran'  completenCH   bis   been  aacrlficed  lobrevltr.    Tbe  namaof  leg-  bringing  with   bitU  bis  SOUS    Sam- 

etaTlansare  la  llallci  but  qnolillODi  baTC  been  prtrerrad  from  Itaoae   not  ,      ,  ,  j       ••>._.        m. 

wbolijr  converted  to  our  practice.]  "*'■   Joseph     aud      Robert.      Mrs. 

I  Mary  Wright  came  the  succeed- 

AccordfaKtotbeAt'Mf.  theCrealonelected  Ihfi  aa  man's  be»tdiet ;    '■God  .  l   ■       ■  .l    ■  .l 

•.Id.Beholdlharegi™   yo„ev«yherbbeBriag.e«l.*bichUopoi.lhe->"S    y*",    bnngmg       their    other 

r»ce  of  alUbeeartb.andeTery  [r«,  In  tbF  which  Ulliefnilt  ofa  tree   yield-  SOU    Joaatban      who       waS       their 

inj  xed;   to  yon  Itaball   be  for    meat."    (GeE.i.J9.)    Some    expounder,  (.jjjj^ 

explain    aoythlne  In  other    SerLptnrea    neemlngly  Inconaiatent  with    Ibia,         „.  '  -  -  . 

by   "  accommodaHoo,"    —as  wllh  divorce  (Matt.  19;  8),  or   by   "kenosla"         They    WerC     received     into      the 

(Phm.i;7,  «ee  the  Greek],    On  Ibeleillmony  of  earlyhiworlaos,  Matthew  Bible    Christian  Charch  by  certifi- 
and  Peler  were  Tcgetarlans,  alfo  James  "the  Lord's  brother",  finl  head         .      ,_,_    ,l„   o=if«-J    r^U^.^i,    :- 

ofthecbun*.    Comparemann»andqnail..«food(Nnmb.,.;.8-jst«..d  <»*«  f">m    the  Sal  ford    Church    in 

read  Daniel  I.  1821,     blary,  John   B.    and  John 

Rerelation  U  confirmed  by  Jl,V-„,("  Comparative  A-aWmy:  man  is  ne«  t^*'""   children    died    yonng.      Jon- 

tlie  anlbropold  apes  which   eat  fruit  and  nuu.    Our   "canines"  are  even  athan    Wright  Jr.,       Hannah    and 

«n.ller  thin  ihelm.    Man',  nail.,     tongue.   hu>d..  inlesllno    and  Mood,  j^^^  ^  Wright  also  tbeirs,    grew 

pointtoveKet«bIefood{£,,...*Bj,Cuyler.Owen.LawTen«,Bel]).(blChemical  ■"         -       4.-  .  w-iu  j 

PbysloloBy:    tbe  Mllva.   gastric  jniM  and  eicretiOD.  confirm  thi.  view.    So  "P    "»    thlS  COUOtry.      Martha  and 

does  BmbtyoIogy(S;4ii'c;tcy]»i}.  (c)"IlmAybeacoeptedas  a  fair  deduction  William      Wright,     both     bom    in 

Ii^Ti,?™"°'r^"l.'''''^'°l°"/'°";"''°°"."rw''''/T^''''  this     country     survive     Robert, 

dentition,   and  ttom  his  want   of  natural  weapon,  of  attack  and  defence,                                  ■'  ' 

Ibat   be  mnst  at  fint  have  been  fruglvorous"  (DawMn).    (d)  Devclopmenl  Martha  being  Mrs.       Himmcl- 

tbeoriea  confirm  Ibl.  (Darwin,  H«ckel).  (ejChemlstryahows  thai  all  elements  wright,  living  on       Sixth      St., 

essential  to  health,  are  contained  In  the  diet  of  FarsdlM  (Llebig.PIayralr,  _..,  s  n.-n-  i'    '                 r>      i 

Cb.„i.a.,.,«.  ;o«-iiaiScM.,.ii„..,hDn,,H,  T«oi.p«a"W.B.c„.   Phila.  and  Wilham  living  on   Pan! 

penter,   B.  W.  Richardson.  "B.  Smith,  Keith,  declares  fleali-food  unnecesaary.  St. ,  Piankford. 

11  ie  only  nutriment  at  ««jnd  hand,  generally  half  e«remenlitioo.  water.  Samuel  Wright  died  Jan.     Ilth, 

Ihc  remainder  venons  blood. lissueeihaustedandM)  '-twice  dead". stimu-  *  ,                 ■' 

latingpol»on»(plomalnes  etOandasmallresidHomofYalne.    (g)So  testifies  1091,    exactly    SIX  years  ago,    WaS 

Biology.    (h)Zoologyaamesa.  tbesltotigesl animals,  the  elephant,  01, lloiw,  gix      years     Older      than      Robert, 

c«mel,  gorilla.    The  camivora  would  starve,  without  fang.,  daw*,  cunning.       _j ,.    < < .i^i,*,.    1 i 

Tbe.eandnotstreuglharelbelrcapit.1.    (iirkere  I.  argn-^t  In  the  .«(.«',  and  WOUld    have  been  eighty    had 

c/<:AiY^r».  fairly  tested  (Tbomprcn,  Richardson).    Kreophagy  l>  therefore  he  lived  till  Feb.  24th,  189 1.      Rob- 

nnnece«ary,unnatural,  undesirable.  Crt  WOuld    have    been   eighty,    had 

„.,,.  "'  _  „     he  lived  till  Feb.  igth,  1897-    This 

Wllh  many  the    eipetience  0/  jwan    has  greatert  welgbt.    Inconlertably  .  .,  '      ,       , 

the  m^orily  of  men  are  vegetariui.-"four-tenih.eKlBalwly,.even.lentb.  coincidence      calls      tO      mind    the 

practically."    Tbe  teeming  million,  of  AhIb  and  moat  Africans  and  Polyne-  prediction  made    by    Robert     after 
•iana  use  lle.il  rarely,  If  at  all.    Captives  In  war.  fish,  fowl,  an  old  camel,  a      ,  j„ii.      „f     c»™„.i       H,,i-    u.- 

fstledcalf.  are  occsslonalluiurle.  with  some,    ihe  masse,  of  Bnrope  and  U"*      ^"^"^     »'     Samuel,     that    he 

England  are    too    poor  for  a  frequent    indulgence.    Atwater    aays:    "the  would      live   tO    the  same    age      aS 

Snropean    wage-wotker  has   bat  little  meat,    butler    or  sugar."    Sir    H.  Samuel.         His      dying      Jan.      II, 
Thompson  writes:    "Between    id  and  nearly  6a    degree,    of  latitude    (in       ^  .... 

Burope)  we  find  lu^e  populstlomi    of  fine  races,  trained   lo   be  (he    beat  l897,     Same    day   of    the     mOUth. 

laborec  in   [he  worid,  on  little  more  than  cereals  and  legumes,  wllh  milk,  renders     the  prediction    the    more 

a.  food."    The  Bnglisb  peaasnt  •'lives  for  the  most  pari  ou  whealen  bread  ren,arlta|jle. 

garden  greena ;  it  Is   only  ocraslonally,  indeed,  he  obtain,  flab."    (lb.)    On         Robert     WSS      trained  tO    be    a 

even  lessor  it,  the  Scotch  and  Irish  are  phyaically  superior,  as  a  rule,  lo  the  mechanic  and   became   a  machin- 

Englfsh.    A  rlce-fcd  coolie  will  shoulder  what  beef^ealera  can  hardly  Ufl,  and  ,   .  .    __    . „.         ..,, 

carry  it  for  hour.  (Sherwood).     Turkish  potte- «.dilylran.port.    on  their  '9t    ^nd    engineer.      His    still  waa 

backs.Soapounds(indinore,irithonlflesh-food(Rea).  On  the  Pythsgareim  diet  in    great    demand  when  railroads 

athletes  were    trained  for  the  ancient  games.    Thus  MUb  carried  the  o»  but  ^^^^    i^j^-      j^jn    ^oth     in      thls 
did    not    eat  blm  I      Under     tbe    .tlmnto.    of     fiesh-eatlng     one       may  "      . 

enotl    In     a      "spurt"     but   whip,     are    not     abiding     food,        Eudles.  COUUtiy  and    in  Europe. 

rA  Feb. 


d  by  Google 


pood,  fiom^  apd  (^rdei; 


,b.urd.  thai  hiaiih   ■nd  strtngth  depend  od       In  2843   Mr.    Hairison  and  Mr. 

,.      „  ,.    ^,  .,„,..      ^        ^ ._,  Winans  went  to  Russia  and  ob- 

<n  loDBerity    (Hnfeland)  Mj*:    "Rich  ud  uourlshlnK  ..,,.  .        ..       ,        ■... 

crate  ow  of  aoh  do  ootproiDDs  lire.  iiDtuicea  of  the  tamed  the  contract  to  furnish  the 

be  fonnd  anions  those  who    from  their    fouth  lived  Railroad  between  St.     Petcrsburgb 

prlndpalW  od  •egelables and  who  perhapa  nevertarted  flesh."    Biamplea i  ,, ,1.     c .     .    t>    -o 

^r  »_>.^..  i»»^.^..  .—  /  1     u/  I      _h«  rfi^  .1  <»  .  .™_.-.4r„.  "na  Moscow,  the  first  great  R.  R. 

01  vesetariAB  longevity  art  jeMn    iVesley,  who  aiea  at  8S,  a  ttetnenoons  '  * 

worker  till  the  last;    Adam    F/rgutoH,    ased    93.     Superior    health    and  iu    RUSSia.        They     SCtlt     tO     Mr. 

inilMinitr  from  disease  mar   be  shown.    John  Howard'i  expeiience  Is  In  Garret       EUStwick    who      engaged 

solBt, also  the  leatiiDOny  of  Dta.  Copelaod,  Rush,  Reel.    Man*  Tacts  Indicate  „,..„.,.  •      .<  < 

U.M  .  lUKe  part  of  .ilmenU  coald  be   cared  by   a   fruit  diet,  and  the  Robert  Wnght  and  other  mechan- 

Rmalnder    raltiKated.    Quicker    recovery  la    asserted  by  I>r.  AlliDSoa  and  Ics   and    they    went   to    RuSSia    iu 

^h«*^^    -Wound,    in   Turkish    and   Zulu    bodies   close  a.    by    magic"  ,3^^         \yi,g„      ^^^^ly       ^jy      (^ 

\'Ln,  "It  1.  probable  that  the  health  and  mental  and  bodily   .Igor  "P^"  '•>«  Railroad.  Robert  Wright 

of  the  inhobltanta  uf  temperate  climes  are  more  attrlDntable  to  thU  food  returned    botne,  and  after    a  short 

(wheat)   Uiantoanyother  slnglecause'|Foods,S.Smlth).  Tisit  Weut  back    tO   RuSsia    aCCOm- 

...*"T^  ^"'* '*%''■'""•  "!i''l.!!r'"!°''°'' "Li!"'"':!'''*''*'  panied   by    Mrs.    Wright,    their 

the  soil,  became  a  race  of  lar^  and  good  physiqui,  aupetlorto  Ihemoie  '^  ,      ,  ■      \         , 

cuninmms  Laplander*.    Sstlmo  and  Fuegians,  flesh-eaters  allogetheT,  are  little    daaghter     and     hlS    brotliCr 

low  typea,  amall,  consumptln,  short  lived.    The  polar  reindeer  and  musk  William.  The        railroad        waS 

oxtind   rtgor  in  lichen,  and  .edg«.^  ^^^^      ^^      traffic    and       Robert 

■■The<(,j«i«o/B«<«<.I,»hichren'derU«lrfl«a.  unfit  forfoodare  very  Wright   might    have  Continued    in 

numeroas",  ssys  Dr.  A.  M.  Davis.    He  specifies  Gdecn.    Bngllsh  butcben  a  lucrative  pOSition  in    connection 

•»ert  that,  if  ^1  unhealthy  meat  wererejected.Englapd  could   ■"tbesup-  ^jj^     jj      ^,^4   ^eing   satisfied  with 
plied.    Nor  could  America.   Therefore   no   iDspectlon  will  save  U5   irom  "     . 

danger.    Question  farmers,  catUe  dealers  etc.  and  you   will  find  a  sickening  houors  and  remuneration    liberally 

aTKnment  against  such  food.    But  "putrescent    alterations    are  much    leaa  bestowed  Upon  him,  retired,    aS  he 

likely  to  take  place  with  respect  to  vegetable  than  to  animal,  food."  (Frof.        ..    ,,.  ..    >.   _  _ii 

Beaumeu)        '  >~  »  Said,  "  togivc  otbers  a  chance '. 

V  The     Crimean      war    however, 
c™.ter  oyors««(   o//Mrf  Is  one  blessing  of  the  simple  diet  which  ours  detained  him   for  a  While  and  he 

should  be.    Dr.    J.  R.  Fan«,   as  an  Algerine  captive,  hod  been    worked        .,,,_■  .  . 

twelve   hours  dally  00  only  one  loaf  of  black  bread.    Artced  If  he  could  eat  aided   the    RuSSiaU   CaUSe    by  put- 

It.  he  replied:     "  Oh  yes,  it  wss  sweet  indeed."    Comsro  at  So  aaid :    "My  tlUg    an    engine    ictO   One    of    the 

Sf';!l!°°■!L'^''^!;'^*7'*",''",l^,'''^,l">u''"'"'"°^*/.^""';  Russian    gunboats     required    in 

dhdws  wlien  I     led    an  irregular  lifc."    Of  bread   he  says;    "1  Qnd  >nch  ■•^"'"'•'""      6  t 

sweetneas  in  II  that  I  should  be  afiald  of  sinning  against  temperance  were'  the    war,  for   whlCh  SCrVlCC  he  WaS 

it  not  for  my  being  convinced  of  the  absolute  necessity  of  eating  II."    EH-  afterwards,  presented  with  a  med- 

furai  himself  said:    "Simple   fare  can  give  a  relish   equal    to  the  mos       ,         ,  ,  ,  ,  i.i       _  _  1 

expensive  luxuries."    We  invite  to  an  epicurean,  not  to  anl^tlc,  diet.  al     whlch     waS     brought    OVet  by 

VI  his  brother  William  the  year  after 

Here  Uie  frrvtHlian,  alleviation  and  cuti  of  if/emferance  find  potent  ai  Robert's  return  tO  Philadelphia. 

of  Intemperance  everywhere  is  the  stoTy  of  heavy  over-eatlDg  of  animal  Russia.      Their    son  Johu    B.  had 

fcod  In  highly  seasoned  forma.    •    •    •    The  man  who  can  eat  plain    food  \j^„    jgU      gt    SChool     in    America 
wllhrelUhisInnodangeroffallinga  vlctlmtoalcohol."    (Helen  Campbell  ,   ^         „  ,      ,  ,,  ■   »■       »„ 

See  Rom.  ,4i    «.)    sonic  vigorous    nations  are  large  consumer,    of  flesh  and  he    aftcrwardS  fell  avlCtim  tO 

and  Inloiicanta  but  to  neither  do  they  owe  their  power.  the  war,    dying   at   Murfreesboro, 

VII  Tenn. 

The  lavinr   of  labor  and    exfifnse  is  not    to  be  overlooked.    "  Making  .  ■  j   „  f  1  -_      r.  ^ti.f..i 

meat  from  g4.s  or  grsin  is  costly    .    •    Thepr^tein  of  beef  1.  several  tlm^         As  «"    evidence  of  I118     faithM 

as  eipensive  as  that  of  Hour."    (Atwater.  U.  S.  Agr.    Rep.)      "  Twenty-two  service  aS  R.  R.  engineer  the    firm 

acres  of  land  are  needed  to  sustain  one  man  on  ftesb  meat,"    Under  wheat  ^y   whom   he    waS    employed   prC- 
tbatland  will  feed  45  people  ;  under  oata88;under  potatoes,  maiit,  or  rice,  .    ,    ,  .  ,,  1.-  1.      ■ 

1:6    under  the  banana  over  6000.    The  crowded  nations  of  the  future  must  Seated    him    a  gOld  CUp  whlch     IS 

abandon    Sesh-eatlng  for  a  diet  that  will  feed  mote  than   ten-fold  people  noW    preserved  aS    an  heir-loom  in 

by  the  same  soil,  expense  and   labor.    How   rich  men   will  be  when  they  .,      f.— ,;i ,. 

««etotoll  forfl«h.mcat,alcohol.d™g...lcknessandwar!  UlC  lamilj  . 

SUvery  to  the  stomach  is  the  hesvlest   burden    working  men  bear  and         He    was    an    honest  Straightlor- 

nskea  riches  a  cuiie.    VegMxilanism  may  free  woman  In  large  measur  ^ard  Englishman    combined    With 
rmm  the  suicidal  drudgery    of   Afr  life.      "  By  sowing  frugslity  we    rea  1.       r    iU    »      „„-.,i       ^^.^-^^ti^^ 

llherty.  .golden  h^™Sy  What  abundant    niource.  for   ministering    to  W"**    "f    t''**      l""'^''     percepUon 

Ibe  needy,  would  follow  a  simpler  and  more  healthful  diet  I  of    Opportunities     acquired  by    hlS 


d  by  Google 


pood,  j^om^  ai^  (jardei) 


'  that  tDidf  Butliora,  like  Walter 
engsjed  in  "high  thinktng".  Onl 
(bealdathoM  already  indicated  b] 
Ttriullian,  Parfhyry,    Ckt 


iae  Ihe  physical  life  ofmea,  sive  It 
to  thcii 


•.dtnba'g.  Sktlley,  Byron, 
Muisey,  Trail.  BmlDenl 
lulllply  Ihii  lilt. 

I  progras  is  htre  fouad. 


itribute 


!  pouibllit] 


of  Iheir  t 


(Fairbairn.)    "The    Ethics    of  Diet." 

lh«ii«.    Wat,  cruelly,  vice  and  erime  are  cheeked  by  cooli 

Wholesale  aDddomcBllc  butcher;  are  alckraiog  anddesraif 
beatt. 

"No  Sacks  that  tore  the  valley    free. 
To  alaughter  1  condemn  ; 


Taught  by  Ih 

e  Povrer  th 

at  pUle.   me, 

I  learn  to 

pity  them 

drift  of 

Goldamilh'a 

Hermit. 

The    inevitable 

and  maiiftit 

-iviliiatian    is  i 

this  djred 

loo. 

and   progressive 

cbtiatianity     are 

with     us.    O 

r  llteiatu 

e     is    now    ver 

great.    It 

has 

many  periodical 

publicationa 

n    England 

and 

BritUh  organ 

numeFOUB.et.ro1l 

ngthouaan.! 

>  of 

noted  in  Lo 

don 

alone.    There  are 

ds  of  us  In  the  U.  S.  ind 

udiog  large 

tlona  of  the  S.  D 

me  Roman    Catholic  order* 

other  religious  bodies.    Many 

anltarinma 

the    cause. 

We 

hate  a  national  oreauliailoo  v 

In     .89J  be 

World's  Congress 

at  Chicago. 

Rev.  H.  S 

Clubb  and  Dr.  J 

H.  Kellogg 

are 

among  our  active 

American  lea 

era.    Prof. 

Mayor  of  Camb 

idge  Unive 

niily 

atanda  foremost  In  Hnglanfl. 

\a  BekeloB',  Chancellor  of 

SI.    Petetab 

rr* 

University,  aald. 

and  as  Tolst 

ol  teaches 

'■the  future! 

with  the 

rtge- 

B*xford,  Mass.,  1397. 
For  farther  Information  In  regard  lo  the  Vegetarian  principle  and 
practice,  the  reader  ia  referred  lo  Foon,  HoHB  and  Gabdrh,  published 
by  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America,  and  edited  by  the  president.  Rev. 
Henry  S.  Clubb.  It  U  a  monthly  publication  and  contaiaa  numeraua  'itema 
of  experience,  recipes  for  Vegelarian  Cookery,  Editorial  and  contributed 
articles,  List  of  books  Ac.  Subscription  50  ets,  fl  year.  FOOD,  310  Chestnut 
St.,  Philadelphia,  Fa.    Sample  copies  free. 


eduL-atiun  and  experience  in  this 
country. 

The  principles  instilled  b?  bis 
honored  father  and  pastor,  Dr. 
Metcalfe,  when  he  was  quite 
young  were  always  cherished  and 
observed  by  him. 

He  was  a  total  abstainer  from 
intoxicating  liquors  and  the  flesh 
of  animals  all  during  his  long  and 
eventful  life,  and  his  strong  men- 
tality and  faith  in  divine  provi- 
dence, carried  him  through  trials 
to  which  most  men  would  have 
succumbed. 

He  was  a  warm  and  earnest 
friend  and  nothing  seemed  to 
reader  him  so  happy  as  to  pro- 
mote    the  wefare  of  his  friends. 

Although  for  many  years 
retired  from  the  ordinary  activi- 
ties of  business  for  himself,  his 
active  mind  found  delight  in 
devotedness  to  the  interests  of 
others. 

Hi^  later  illness  was  brought  on 
by  exposure  and  extra  exertion  on 
one  of  bis  expeditions  to  do  a 
good  turn. 

His  remains  were  interred  in 
the  family  vault  at  Laurel  Hill 
Cemetery,  Jan.  15th.  in  the  pres- 
ence of  a  large  number  of  friends 
and  mourners. 


A  STRONG  TESTIMONY. 
The  longer  we  live  the  Vegetarian  life  the 
more  we  see  in  it.  The  first  thought  was  the 
cruelty  we  were  abetors  to  in  eating  flesh,  and 
by  the  practice  of  vegetarianism  we  have 
learned  of  the  health  benefits,  the  economy, 
and  the  best  of  all,  the  help  to  a  higher  plane 
spiritually.  I  am  sure  that  every  Christian 
would  be  a  better  Christian  for  not  eating 
flesh,  and  that  many  of  them  only  need  a  few 
copies  of  F.  H.  &  G.  or  a  few  kindly  words  on 
the  subject,  when,  as  with  Paul,  the  scales 
would  fall  from  their  eyes  and  they  would  be- 

S8 


come  as  zealous  in  the  work  as  any  of  n: 
Mrs.  Lydia  Irons,  Marshall,  Wash. 


THE      VEGETARIAN    CYCLING    CLUB. 

Hampden  House,  Hampden  Street,  N.  W. 
4.  5.  '96— With  all  good  wishes  to  our  Vege- 
tarian brethren  across  the  water  1 

Here  in  England,  and  I  believe  in  Germany 
as  well,  the  pure  diet  is  gaining  distin- 
guished adherents  among  the  best  class  of 
athletes  ;  and  the  enclosed  booklets  are  sent 
the  hope  that  they  may  prove  suggestive 
■  -  ■     ■      U.    S.   A.— H.    D. 


d  by  Google 


INSTEAD  OF  BEEF  TEA. 

KemEdla  for  the  Hanwolfe  Club,  cootribnted  by 
Dr.  C.  W.  LymaD. 

Take  peas,  water,  and  a  sufficient  amount  of 
vegetables  suitable  for  soups.  Add  a  little  so- 
da, and  boil  the  whole  till  the  peas  cotne  en- 
tirely apart.  Let  it  stand  till  settled.  Pour 
off  the  thin  dear  fluid.  Salt  to  taste.  This 
fluid  tastes  well,  is  as  digestible  as  any  meat 
soups,  aad  surpasses  the  very  best  meat  soups 
in  nutritive  value.  Peas  contain  a  vegetable 
albumin,  legnmen,  which  is  readily  soluble  in 
faintly  alkaline  water,  and  is  as  nutritive  as 
egg  albumin  ;  about  one  per  cent,  of  soda  is 
enough. 

WASHINGTON'S    BIRTHDAY     DINNBR   HBND. 

Leotil     Stew. 

Baked   Beam.  Oyiter   Plant    Croqnetta. 

Bread  (com,    and  white). 

OUves.  NuU. 

FroMn  CbeiTlea    a  la  Waahisgton. 

Cherry     Layer    Cake. 

Candied    Cherrtea 


Cherry    Bemiagr. 

Tabls 

Uary  Wuhlngtoo    ] 

The  Henn  cards  Tor  I 

of  little  halchetB.    An  i 


■  und     Maidenhair   Pema. 
ibore  dinner  to    be  IlK  ^ape 

i    Geoisc  chopping  down    the 


RECIPES. 

Pram  Mn.  I.  A.  Drake,  FlnsblBg.N.  Y. 

Lentil  Stew. — Cook  and  strain  a  few  lentils 
and  thicken  the  lentil  gravy  with  browned 
fionr  and  butter  previously  well  mixed  to- 
gether in  the  frying  pan.  To  this  add  cooked 
potatoes  and  carrots. 

Prom  E.  M.  Bingham,  M.  D.,  We«t  Springfield,  Mast. 

Baked  Beans. — Wash  the  beans,  yellow 
eyes  are  my  choice,  cover  them  with  cold 
water  and  let  them  soak  over  night.     In  the 


morning  put  them  on  to  boil.  Let  them  boil 
till  about  half  cooked,  then  ponr  them,  water 
and  all,  into  a  bean  jar.  Add  some  "Dia- 
mond Butter  Oil",  i  spoonful  of  sugar,  a  hit 
of  cayenne  pepper  and  cover  with  water. 
Add  salt.  Put  them  in  the  oven  and  bake 
five  or  six  hours. 

From  UlM  A.  Nichols,  Allegan.  HIch. 

Cherry  Layer  Cake. — 2  cups  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  i  tablespoon  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  i  cup  canned  cherries  without 
the  jnite,  2  eggs,  %  cup  water.  Bake  in 
layers.  Icing  :  i  cup  sugar,  ^  (^p  water, 
)i  cup  cherry  juice,  boil  until  it  strings  and 
then  stir  until  it  grains  fine.  Put  between 
the  cakes. 

BAKING    VEGETABLES. 

A  word  about  cooking  vegetables.  I  see 
many  recipes  in  F.,  H,  &  G.  are  advising  veg- 
etables boiled.  No  vegetable  is  accredited 
over  ten  percent,  of  nutrition.  Most  of  them 
not  over  five  per  cent.  When  boiled  the  little 
good  they  each  contain  is  boiled  into  the  water 
which  is  thrown  away,  and  the  pulp  eaten. 
Then  comes  the  complaint  of  flatulence,  of 
sour  stomach  and  of  insufficient  nutriment. 
No  other  result  could  be  expected  when  veg- 
etables are  boiled.  All  vegetables  should  be 
baked  or  steamed.  Then  the  nutrition  is  re- 
tained and  the  good  results  that  each  is 
calculated  to  give  will  follow. — E-  M.  Bing- 
ham, M.  D. 

We  do  not  recommend  throwing  away  the 
water  vegetables  are  boiled  in  as  it  contains 
the  best  part  of  the  vegetables.  When  Dr. 
Bingham  speaks  of  vegetables  containing  only 
from  5  to  10  percent,  of  nutriment  of  course 
she  refers  to  green  vegetables  not  to  the  dried 
beans  for  which  she  gives  a  recipe,  as  they 
contain  from  80  to  90  per  cent. — Ed. 

59 


d  by  Google 


ipood.  |1om^  apd  (iardep 


HYGIENIC  LIVING. 

Many,  yes  the  majority  of  non-meat  eaters 
bink  that  all  that  is  needed  to  get  and  keep 
good  health,  is  to  abstaiu  from  animal  food.  Is 
tbat  not  a  great  mistake  generally  ?  And  why  7 
Most  men  eat  too  mnch  of  the  nourishing  food 
that  we  vegetarians  generally  live  on,  instead 
of  meats,  which  contain  32  per  ct.  nourishment. 
We  eat  beans,  peas,  lentils,  that  contain  90 
per  ct.  nourishment.  Whole  wheat  meal,  com 
meal,  barley,  oats  etc.,  tbat  contain  75  to  85 
per  ct.  and  many  fruits  that  have  as  much 
noarishmentas  meats.  Should  we  not  live  and 
eat  on  one  third  less  of  foods  that  contain 
about  %  more  nourisfameut  than  the  meat 
eater's  diet?  We  have  seen  men  eating  three 
times  as  much  food  as  would  be  good  for  them 
to  stay  in  good  health,  so  they  take  one  third 
more  than  is  good  for  them  and  also  squander 
that  much  in  the  way  of  finance. 

Vegetarians  ought  to  study  hygiene  as 
much  as  bygienists,  if  they  expect  to  do 
better  than  the  flesh  eaters.  Man  with  mixed 
diet,  will  likely  keep  in  better  health  if  ihe  eat 
very  moderately,  than  the  vegetarian  who  eats 
too  much.  There  are  also  many  dishes  that 
vegetarians  make  use  of,  bard  to  digest,  such 
as  hot  biscuits  and  butter,  made  of  what  we 
call  patent  flour  which  takes  a  patent  stomach 
to  digest. 

Let  us  try  to  get  at  the  quantity  and  quality 
to  get  the  best  results.  The  best  results  in 
health  and  morals  as  well.  The  public  will 
not  believe  there  is  anything  in  vegetarianism 
if  the  result  does  not  prove  it.— G.  H,  Tim- 
merman,  Valley  Park,  Mo. 

While  we  think  friend  Timmerman's  re- 
marks too  sweeping,  they  do  probably  apply 
to  many  individual  cases  and  as  we  know  his 
advice  is  well  meant,  we  publish  it  for  the  good 
it  may  do. 


Best  wishes  for  your  success  and  congratu- 
ations  upon  the  improved  appearance  of 
the  paper. — ^B.  B.  Parkman,  1251  M  St. 
N.  E.  Washington,  D.  C. 

At  a  family  reunion  in  the  home  of  Andreas 
Darias,  San  Pedro,  Tex;,  several  persons  were 
poisoned  by  diseased  meat,  and  five  children 
bave  died, — P/iila.  Record. 


MORE  ABOUT  THE    ALCOTTS. 

Mrs.  P.  A.  Crafts,  daughter  of  Dr.  W.  A. 
Alcott,  the  first  president  of  the  first  Ameri- 
can Vegetarian  Society,  writes  from  Colam- 
bua,  Ohio : 

"My  brother.  Rev.  W.  P.  Alcott,  has  been 
visiting  me  on  his  way  east  from  Battle  Creek 
Sanitarium.  He  is  thriving  on  two  meals  a 
day  of  simplest  food.  Has  few  colds  though 
much  exposed,  and  in  case  of  sickness  of  any 
kind,  nature  does  well  by  him  without  re- 
course to  medicine.  We  are  increasingly 
grateful  for  our  inberitence  of  vegetarian  prin- 
ciples and  for  grace  that  has  kept  us  ia  the 
path  our  father  trod.  Our  faith  is  unshaken 
that  when  the  millenial  days  come  they  shall 
neither  hurt  nor  destroy  through  all  the  lower 
creation.  How  soon  the  day  will  come  is  not 
a  matter  of  sight,  only  hope. ' ' 


STANDING  ALMOST  ALONE. 
I  am  a  christian  and  many,  even  my  parents 
especially,  think  I  am  crazy  because  I  will  not 
gratify  my  lust  for  flesh  and  other  stimulants, 
tea,  coffee  etc.  I  via»  a  vegetarian  three 
months  before  I  got  converted.  At  the  time 
I  quit  eating  fiesh,  we  had  just  killed  a  hog 
and  I  never  did  care  very  much  for  pork,  but 
this  was  too  much  for  me,  whenever  I  took  a 
piece  of  that  Jiig  it  was  blue  and  many  of  the 
other  colors  of  the  rainbow.  It  seems  to  me 
that  for  the  sake  of  cleanliness  people  ought  to 
do  away  with  pig  pens.  Where  I  live  neariy 
every  family  has  one  with  from  one  to  a  dozen 
pigs,  and  not  more  than  a  hundred  or  one 
hundred  and  fifty  feet  from  the  house.  Folks 
who  shun  a  living  pig  as  I  do  will  not  eat  a 
dead  one.  I  am  twenty  years  old  and  have 
been  a  vegetarian  fifteen  months. — A.  H. 
Jacol>sou,  Woodinville,  Washington. 


Most  heartily  do  I  congratulate  you  ou 
the  re-appearing  of  F.,  H.  &  G;  when  it 
disappeared  it  left  a  blank  or  vacant  chair 
in  a  loving  household.  When  it  reached  here 
imagine  this  morning,  I  felt  as  if  a  long  lost 
brother  had  come  back  to  life  again.  May 
F.  H.  &  G.  long  flourish  under  your  able 
care !— Josiah  Oldfield,  M.  A.,  Oriolet, 
Honghton,  Essex,  England,  April    34,   1896. 

60 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  |lom^  apd  (fivdzff 


SCIENCE  AND  VEGETARIANISM. 
It  is  conceded  by  the  most  eminent  natural- 
ists that  the  natural  dietetic  character  of  man 
is  frngiverous.  All  intelligent  physiologists 
agree  that  all  food  material  for  man  and  ani- 
mals is  produced  by  vegetable  growth.  No  or- 
ganism except  the  vegetable  can  produce  food 
of  any  kind  for  living  beings.  So,  man  and 
animals  that  eat  the  flesh  of  other  animals  and 
materials  derived  from  animals  can  get  only 
sach  nutriment  as  they  have  obtained  from  the 
vegetable  kingdom.  These  are  the  t-dicts  of 
science.  These  scientific  statements  stand 
withont  snccessfnl  contradiction.  In  the  face 
of  tliese  troths  the  teachings  of  all  the  drag 
medical  schools  and  books  are  in  direct  opposi- 
tion to  them.  They  teach  that  a  mixed  diet 
and  not  one  that  is  exclusively  vegetarian  is 
thebest  for  man.  They  teach  that  man's  nat- 
ural dietetic  character  is  omnivorous.  These 
doctrines  of  the  medical  schools  of  to  day  are 
the  great  obstacles  in  the  way  of  the  progress 
of  vegetarianism.  The  doctors  of  the  drug 
schools  are  in  direct  contact  with  the  people 
and  are  the  silent  teachers  of  the  dogmas 
learned  at  the  colleges  and  in  their  text  books. 
Also,  the  medical  schools  and  the  family  phy- 
ncian  are  the  most  powerful  opponents  to  the 
temperance  cause.  They  teach  that  alcoholic 
Uqnors  give  tone  and  impart  strength  to  debil- 
itated vitality — that  it  is  of  use  to  a  living  or- 
gan when  enfeebled  by  disease  or  any  other 
cause.  These  errors  must  be  displaced  before 
any  great  and  permanent  advance  can  be  made 
in  the  general  establishment  of  total  absti- 
nence principles  and  practices.  The  truth  is 
that  alcohol  in  all  forms  is  foreign  to  the  use 
of  the  body  whether  in  health  or  disease. 
There  is  little  hope  in  onr  opinion  for  any 
great  advancement  in  v^etarianism  and  tem- 
perance until  there  are  more  medical  schools 
and  physicians  than  now  disseminatiiig  and 
teaching  the  true  science  of  dietetic^  and  ihe 
true  relation  of  alcohol  and  other  poisons  to 
the  living  body,  The  Hygienic  Colleges  of 
Physicians  and  Surgeons  are  the  only  med- 
ical schools  in  the  wide  world  that  teach  the 
true  principles  of  dietetics  and  temperance. 
The  physicians  of  the  Hygeio-Medical  School 
1897 


are  the  only  medical  teachers  and  exponents 
of  the  principles  of  vegetarianism  and  total 
abstinence  from  all  forms  of  alcoholic  liquors 
either  as  a  beverage  or  as  a  curative  agent. — 
J.  G.  Stair,  M.  D.,  1221  Faraon  St.,  St.  Joseph, 
Mo. 


EFFECTS  OF  LEAVING  INDULGENCE  IN 
FLESH. 
I  quit  eating  flesh  because  it  was  disgusting 
to  see  the  way  it  was  handled  from  the  time  it 
was  born  until  it  was  slaughtered  and  served. 
Since  I  became  a  vegetarian  I  have  also  got  a 
firm  hope  of  glory  with  Christ  in  heaven,  and 
now  I  see  things  in  another  light.  I  thiuk 
that  when  the  millenium  comes  men  will  have 
to  quit  killing  animals.  I  feel  better  than 
ever  in  my  life  before.  I  cannot  see  why  peo- 
ple have  continued  so  steadfastly  in  the  habit 
of  eating  flesh,  we  ought  to  have  quit  long 
ago,  seeing  that  God  has  provided  so  many 
things  for  us  to  eat.  If  it  was  obsolntely  nec- 
essary for  man  to  kill  and  eat  then  we  would 
have  to  do  it,  but  it  is  an  unnecessary,  blood- 
thirsty practice,  and  my  prayer  is  that  it  be 
done  away  with.  I  wunt  to  get  acquainted 
with  •vegetarians  in  this  state.  Let  ns  hear 
from  you  all  for  we  are  quite  lonely  sometimes. 
— Andrew  H.  Jacobson,  Woodinville,  Wash. 


A  FAMILY  OF  PRACTICAL  VEGETARIANS 
My  siister  and  I  are  staunch  to  our  colors  and 
eat  nothing  which  we  are  not  sure  is  without 
meat.  We  are  a  family  of  four  and  also  a  serv- 
ant and  her  child.  Slie  has  become  a  good 
vegetarian,  thanks  to  our  cooking  and  teach- 
ing combined.  She  says  she  never  felt  stron- 
ger and  better  than  since  she  lived  with  me. 
Her  child  has  never  eaten  meat  because  he 
was  made  ill  with  it  once,  so  we  have  no  trou- 
ble. The  other  two  members  of  our  house 
hold,  while  not  calling  themselves  vegetarians 
yet  they  are  willing  to  let  me  continue  house- 
keeping as  I  think  best  and  they  certainly 
look  well  and  enjoy  their  meals. — Mrs.  J.  A. 
D.,  Flushing.  N,  Y. 

Just  to  learn  to  love ;  to  be  just  and  kind,  is 
all  this  old  world  needs  to  make  of  it  a  para- 
dise.—  I.ydia  A.  Irons. 


db,  Google 


pood,  ^om^  ai)d  Qardei} 


FOOD  AND  MENTAL   SCIENCE. 
Maky  N.  Bruwm. 

Since  my  last  I  have  continued  to  test  the 
matter  of  what  sort  and  how  little  we  can  eat, 
and  yet  have  health  and  strength.  I  lead  a 
very  busy  life,  one  where  both  physical  and 
uientol  labor  is  required,  but  particularly  the 
latter.  I  rise  at  4  a.  m.  and  retire  at  9  p.  u. 
I  eat  plain  com  bread,  grits  made  of  com 
meal,  some  rice,  oat  meal,  milk  and  butter,  a 
few  vegetables  and  fmits.  I  eat  one  meal  per 
day  as  a  general  thing.  I  eat  no  meat,  and 
nothing  that  has  any  grease  about  it,  except 
butter,  I  fest  one  or  two  days  every  two  weeks. 
I  have  fasted  five  days  with  happy  results  in 
feelings  and  health,  and  expect  to  take  even  a 
longer  fast  in  April,  perhaps  ten  days.  I  am 
satisfied  we  eat  too  much  and  of  too  rich  a 
quality,  though  as  vegetarians,  we  are  free 
from  the  effects  of/lesi  diet. 

It  almost  seems  strange  to  me  that  I  could 
even  have  liked  the  flesh  diet,  it  has  such  a 
cannibal  aspect  to  it  now.  Some  of  my  Men- 
tal Science  friends  say  to  me  "why  not  eat 
flesh  and  anj'thing  we  want  ?  that  we  can  do 
so  through  wiU  power."  (lam  a  M,  S.  in 
belief),  and  I  reply  "  yes,  and  we  can  do  with- 
out it  through  this  same  mil  power,  and  if  we 
want  a  drill  of  exercise  of  this  phase  of  will 
power  we  will  find  the  chance  right  here  in 
the  subjugation  of  animal  appetites. 

Now  let  us  reflect  upon  this :  we  say  that 
the  will  power  of  a  man  is  the  real  ego,  the  vi- 
tal power,  and  so  it  is,  and  what  is  the  will 
power  but  Love,  the  germ  of  universal  life,  en- 
sphering or  externalizing  itself  in  all  creation? 

As  Swedenborg  says  "a  man  is  his  love,  bis 
desires."  (difllUsivc  love),  so  then  willpower 
carried  out  to  its  last  analysis  uietins  love,  or 
desire.  It  is  my  lAoice,  desire  to  live  a  spirit- 
ual instead  of  an  animal  existence  :  hence  it 
expresses  itself  in  my  ici/;  to  conqner  appetite 
or  animality. 

Now  if  a  man  is  what  he  thinks  (and  this 
both  nature  and  the  Bible  tell  us  is  true,) 
thence  animals  are  what  they  think,  feel,  desire, 
etc.,  just  as  man  ;  and  as  all  flesh  is  condensed 
thought,  M.  S.  and  "Esoteric"  principles  ac- 
6z 


cording  to  Butler,  so  wepartake of  the  thou^bt 
of  tbe  animals  in  eating  their  flesh.  It  may  be 
thought  that  the  food,  meat  &c.,  taken  in  our 
stomach  can  not  reach  onr  mind,  but  this 
theory  will  not  do.  for  look  at  opium  and  diff- 
erent vegetable  and  mineral  medicines,  how 
soon  they  reach  the  mind,  I  know  this  experi- 
mentally, I  am  not  a  C.  S. 

Now  the  hog  is  very  uncleanly,  and  the  love 
of  eating  (alimentativeness)  controls  it,  while 
with  cattle  there  is  a  species  of  contentment, 
a  certain  sort  of  endurance,  it  is  true. 

Now  when  we  take  treatment  from  a  healer 
the  seedof  his  thought  is  sown  in  our  minds, 
and  when  we  eat  animals  we  partake  of  tbe 
condensed  thonght  of  the  animals  ;  and  when 
we  eat  and  assimilale  it,  tbe  thoughtof  the  ani- 
mal goes  into  us ;  it  permeates  our  whole  sys- 
tem, mind  and  body.  This  may  sound  foolish, 
but  to  any  one  who  will  lay  aside  prejudice, 
and  study  the  methods  of  mind,  it  will  be 
found  true.  And.  outside  of  the  psychic  prop- 
erties of  tbe  meat  diet,  it  is  the  most  indiges- 
tible food  we  can  eat, — showing  it  is  a  foreign 
element  introduced  into  the  stomach,  not 
man's  natural  food. 

Then  leaving  these  views  out  of  the  question, 
let  us  look  at  tbe  degrading  influence  to  those 
who  are  engaged  in  killing  animals,  and  the 
suffering  and  cruelty  cultivated  in  ns,  by  kill- 
ing or  endorsing  it. 

It  is  wonderful  how  the  sentiment  of  Veg- 
etarianism is  growing  everywhere.  I  know 
a  number  who  are  "  almost  persuaded"  to  be 
out  and  out  Vegetarians  and  who  now  use 
very  little  flesh. — Mrs.  Lydia  Irons. 

Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  Mr.  E.  E. 
Howe,  of  this  city,  is  a  staunch  vegetarian,  be 
experienced  no  difficulty  in  pushing  his  bicy- 
cle last  Saturday  allernoon  from  Rev.  Bis- 
choS^s  at  upper  Lehigh  to  his  home  at  First 
and  Vine  Streets,  some  1 1  miles,  in  44|minutes. 
He  lost  but  a  quarter  of  a  minute  in  hnving  to 
dismount  to  recover  his  hat  which  was  blown 
off  on  the  way.  Mr.  Howe  is  pleased  to  say 
that  he  has  not  made  a  "  graveyard  "  of  his 
digestive  organs  for  over  18  years  to  date. — 
Hazleton  Plain  Speaker,  June  23,  '96. 

Feb. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  }lom^  atfd  Qari^\) 


PERSONS  WON  OVER. 
Miss  E.  S.  Oakev. 

My  experience  in  more  than  one  instance 
has  been  very  happy  in  the  past  nine  months. 
I  gave  the  March  nnmber  1894  of  Food  to  an 
acquaintance  of  mine,  as  she  was  leaving  for 
Boston,  (she  is  not  a  vegetarian)  and  she  quite 
unintentionally  became  the  proselytizer  of  a 
gentlemen  seventy-two  years  old,  (whom  I  also 
know,  and  whom  I  had  hoped  would  in  some 
way  be  converted,  being  a  worker  in  humane 
and  christian  work.(I  had  prayed  for  this). 
This  lady  left  by  mistake  Food  on  the  table  in 
the  house  where  she  as  well  as  this  gentleman 
boarded,  in  place  of  carrying  it  with  her  to 
read  on  her  way  to  Boston.  The  gentleman 
picked  it  up  and  when  the  lady  returned  in 
three  weeks  she  found  an  almost  full  fledged 
vegetarian  in  the  gentleman. 

In  my  mountain  experiences  the  past  sum- 
mer and  autumn  I  made  much  progress  with 
one  lady.  She  is  an  earnest  person,  and  was 
deeply  impressed  with  the  teaching  in  Food 
and  onr  talks  on  vegetarianism  seemed  to  open 
a  new  view  of  life  to  her.  She  became  a  sub- 
scriber in  the  month  of  August  last. 

Two  Roman  Catholic  ladies  were  much  in- 
terested in  Father  Paroli'a  account  of  how  he 
became  a  vegetarian,  and  they  decided  to  eat 
less  meat. 

At  Richfield  Springs,  Floyd  Williams,  (12 
years  old)  was  sent  as  my  escort  on  a  drive 
ronnd  Canandagaa  Lake  :  we  soon  began  to 
talk  and  I  found  a  sympathetic  listener,  and 
one  who  had  already  begun  humane  practices, 
being  a  member  of  the  Audubon  Society.  This 
little  boy  spoke  of  the  life  of  the  animals,  and 
tarda  in  their  relation  to  us,  in  such  simple 
yet  comprehensive  language  as  this :  it 
WOTild  be  very  quiet  wouldn't  it,  if  there  were 
DO  little  birds  and  squirrels  jumping  about. 
This  is  very  true,  when  we  want  no  other 
company  we  love  the  (K>mpany  of  the  animals, 
theirsympathy  ia  just  enough.  Lovethe  an- 
mals,  and  you  have  a  hundred  and  more 
(riends  in  a  short  time — devoted  friends. 

.897 


The  principal  of  the  Richfield  Springs  Union 
School,  received  my  proposition  to  send 
Food  to  the  School  Library  very  gracious- 
ly, and  many  no  doubt  are  enjoying  the  priv- 
ileges of  reading  "Food"  in  the  village  of 
Richfield  Springs  today,  for  Floyd  Williams 
has  also  a  copy  sent  to  him  each  month 


THE  CUSTOM  OF  FLESH-EATING. 
This  custom  has  been  pronounced  by  the 
highest  scientific  and  medical  authorities  (in- 
cluding such  men  as  LinnEeus,  Owen,  Cuvier, 
Lawrence,  Darwin,  Ray,  Sir  Henry  Thomp- 
son, Dr.  Lyon  Playfair  and  B.  W.  Richardson) 
to  be  a  violation  of  one  of  the  funda- 
mental laws  of  man's  being,  and  therefore  to- 
tally unnecessary.  Their  verdict  is  confirmed 
by  the  Brahmins  and  Hindoos  of  India  after 
thirty  centuries  of  experience,  and  by  the  de- 
vout Buddhists  of  Asia  after  twenty-five  cen- 
turies, by  the  Norwegian,  Swedish,  Russian, 
Finnish,  Irish  and  Scotch  peasantry,  the  Bed- 
ouin Arabs,  the  famons  porters  of  Turkey  and 
Greece,  the  conquering  soldiers  of  ancient 
Rome  and  Sparta,  the  wrestlers  and  athletes  of 
ancient  Greece  and  modern  Europe,  the  Car- 
melite, Franciscan,  Dominican  and  Trappist 
monks,  and  by  thousands  of  vegetarians  of 
longstanding  in  our  own  and  other  countries 
of  to-day,  who,  although  inhabiting  every 
variety  of  climate  and  engaging  in  all  kinds 
of  physical  and  mental  toil,  testify  tliat  they 
are  happier,  healthier,  and  more  vigorous 
than  when  they  ate  flesh  as  food. — Tke  Gol- 
den Age. 


One  nnmber  of  the  F.,  H,  &  G.  was  received 
by  a  neighbor  who  let  me  read  it  and  I  like  it 
very  much.  I  believe  it  teaches  the  right  way 
to  live,  and  in  time  expect  to  become  with 
God's  help  a  thorough  vegetarian. — Mrs.  S. 
Loeffler,  913  Partridge  St.,  Kalamazoo,  Mich. 


One  of  our  regular  physicians  and  bis  wife 
and  daughters  spent  last  afternoon  and  even- 
ing with  us  and  are  I  think  thoroughly  con- 
vinced of  the  right  of  vegetarian  truths  and 
will  begin  to  live  them. — Mrs.  Hortense  Black, 
'375  Central  Park  Boulevard,  Chicago. 

63 


Digil,2sdb,G00gIe 


NUT  CULTURE. 
There  is  much  encouragement  to  plant  our 
native  nuts  and  some  of  the  foreign  ones.  As 
a  rule,  oar  indigenous  trees  are  good  bearers, 
and  in  Mr.  VanDeman's  opinion  they  prodnce 
nuts  of  better  quality  than  foreign  ones.  The 
Chestnut  is  receiving  the  most  attention  now, 
and  there  are  a  few  well-marked  native  varie- 
ties of  value.  Although  they  are  smaller  than 
the  European  varieties,  they  are  of  better 
qnality  and  very  productive.  The  best  arc 
Delaney,  Excelsior,  Griffin,  Hathaway,  Mor- 
rell  and  Otto.  Rocky  hillsides  and  other  places 
unsuitable  for  tillage  can  be  used  with  profit 
for  nut  trees,  and  they  can  be  set  about  build- 
ings and  in  pastures.  The  European  varieties 
seem  more  profitable.  It  seems  to  be  a  rule 
that  the  more  pubesence  the  nut  has,  the  bet- 
ter its  qnality.  European  varieties  are  more 
fuzzy  than  the  Japanese,  and  less  so  than  the 
American  sorts.  The  most  prominent  of  these 
are  the  Paragon,  Numbo,  Ridgely  and  Han- 
num.  Japanese  chestnut  trees  have  a  more 
dwarf  habit,  and  the  nut  has  a  bitter  skin. 
They  graft  quite  readily  on  American  seed- 
lings, and  the  best  varieties  introduced  are  Al- 
pha, Early  Reliance,  Grand  and  Superb.  Among 
the  hickories,  the  best  nut  tree  is  the  pecan,  a 
native  of  our  Southern  States,  and  the  shell 
bark  hickory  common  throughout  the  North- 
ern States.  A  firm  in  PennS3-lvania  ships 
more  than  twenty  tons  of  hickory  nuts  every 
year.  The  nuts  should  be  planted  in  rough 
places  four  feet  apart  each  way  and  thinned  as 
they  grow.  Seedlings  are  variable,  and  so 
they  must  be  grafted.  The  principal  varieties 
are  Hale's,  a  large  thin -shelled  sort.  Learning, 
Curtis,  Elliott  and  Mulford.  Among  the  wal- 
nuts, our  native  butternuts  may,  perhaps,  be 
improved,  but  the  so  called  English  walnut  is 
the  best  of  the  family,  although  it  is  difficult  to 
grow  as  far  north  as  New  York.  There  is  no 
64 


doubt  that  nut  trees  are  hard  to  graft  and  to 
bud.  Evaporation  should  be  prevented  until 
the  sap  begins  to  flow.  When  the  sap  starts 
the  grafts  should  be  put  in  underground.  The 
scions  should  be  cut  so  as  to  have  the  pith  all 
on  one  side,  or,  if  necessary  to  graft  above  the 
ground,  they  should  be  covered  well  to  pre- 
vent all  evaporation  possible. — Garden  and 
Forest. — ^The  culture  of  Nuts  is  attracting 
much  attention  and  the  result  of  the  agitation 
will  be  an  improvement  in  mauy  farms  and 
homesteads. 


PEANUTS  VS.  FLESH. 
My  own  faith  in  Vegetarianism  strengthens 
with  experience.  I  have  made  further  ex- 
periments and  find  that  fewer  people  would 
die  of  starvation  if  they  knew  that  an  able 
bodied  man  or  woman  can  maintain  life  and  a 
fair  degree  of  physical  strength  for  a  period 
of  time  on  uncooked  peanuts  and  onions  with 
a  little  salt.  This  is  of  course  providing  they 
have  fresh  air  and  there  are  none  no  poor  that 
they  may  not  have  fresh  air  and  plenty  of  it. 
The  air  enables  us  to  assimulate  all  the  nutri- 
tion in  the  food.  It  is  said  that  American 
peanuts  now  form  one  of  the  staple  foods  of 
the  German  army.  The  American  peanut  is 
so  much  more  reliable  than  American  meat.— 
Mrs.  Le  Favre,  Box  999,  Chicago,  111. — The 
rqection  of  American  cattle  and  hogs  by 
Germany  and  France,  and  the  falling  off  of 
the  consumption  of  meat  in  this  country  in 
consequence  of  high  prices  and  diseased  con- 
ditions, should  lead  Texas  and  other  western 
ranchmen  to  give  up  the  raising  of  livestock 
and  induce  the  cultivation  of  peanuts,  pecan 
nuts  and  other  wholesome  productions  for 
which  their  climate  is  adapted,  and  they 
would  enrich  themselves  by  the  change  while 
they  would  supply  good  food  instead  of 
diseased  flesh. 

Feb.  J  897. 


Digitized  hy  Google 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


pood,  J^om^  apd  Qardep  j 


Voi«  I,  No.  5,  New  Series. 


Whole   Number,  77. 


ANNIE  FORCE  ENGLISH. 


(( 


TH 
es 


^HERE  is  a  fallacions  feeling  shared 
by  pbyeicians  that  flesh  eating  is 
essetitially  necessary  for  health,  and 
that  the  results  of  abstinence  therefrom  wowld 
be  to  impair  the  vitality  and  debilitate  tlie 
powers  of  the  body  and  mind.  In  cases  of 
this  kind  vegetarians  are  fond  of  bringing 
forward  the  example  of  those  who  are  strict 
vegetarians  and  whose  vigorous  vitality  and 
strong  mental  capacity  are  sufficient  to  refute 
any  erroneous  idea  that  flesh  is  necessary  as 
an  article  of  food.  Such  an  example  we  take 
pleasare  in  introducing  in  the  personage  of 
Annie  Force  English,  whose  portrait  is  here- 
with presented.  She  has  been  a  strict  veg- 
etarian for  twelve  years.  She  was  not  actuated 
to  this  course  by  any  questions  of  health,  but 
by  the  pure  ethical  ones  and  her  disgust  and 
horror  at  the  useless  sacrifice  of  life  for  food. 
She  is  a  person  of  nnusnal  vigor,  mental  and 
physical,  holds  her  position  of  trust  and  con- 
fidence under  the  Government,  and  is 
especially  commended  for  her  faithful  perform- 
ance of  duty  under  all  circumstances,  and  her 
eqnally  tenacious  adherence  to  principle.  Slie 
is  as  ruddy  and  fair-skinned  as  an  infant; 
bright  eyed,  tithe  and  active  althougli  weigh' 
ing  nearly  two  hundred  pounds,  and  may  be 
seen  going  to  and  from  her  work  through  the 
crowded  streets  of  Washington,  mounted  upon 
her  wheel.  It  is  needless  to  state  she  never 
requires  a  jihysician.  She  is  of  Quaker  ex- 
traction and  possibly  the  inheritance  of  those 
ideas  of  mercy  and  purity  which  this  class 
of  people  peculiarly  hold,  may  have  in  some 
snb-conscious  manner  influenced  her  action  ; 
;^t  it  Ls  not  infrequent  al  this  time  when 
spiritual  matters  are  receiving  such  universal 
consideration  that  children  without  previous 
instruction  have  turned  with  horror  from  flesh 

March,  1897 


when  brought  upon  the  table  for  consumption. 
She  shows  by  her  advanced  thought  that  the 
adoption  of  vegetarian  diet  is  naturally  con- 
ducive to  a  higher  and  happier  condition  of 
life." 

The  above  was  written  by  one  of  Miss 
English's  many  friends  in  Washington.  We 
had  the  pleasure  of  reading  a  letter  from  her 
to  the  World's  Vegetarian  Congress  in  Chicago 
from  which  we  quotf : 

"  If  temperance  workers  could  bnt  fully 
realize  that  abstaining  from  meats  (which  are 
stimulants  in  a  less  degree  than  whiskey) 
would,  in  a  short  time,  effect  a  cure  for  the 
desire  for  intoxicants,  they  would  become 
the  strongest  advocates  of  a  vegetarian  diet. 
The  assertion  can  be  proved  by  a  fair  trial, 
or  by  conversing  with  those  who  have 
experimented  and  accomplished  the  desired 
condition  ;  the  cases  are  numerous  and  can  be 
cited  by  all  who  are  interested  in  food  & 
drink." 

During  last  summer,  Miss  Euglish  enjoyed 
her  vacation  from  the  duties  at  tlieU.  S.  Agri- 
cultural Department,  Washington,  at  the 
home  of  a  mutual  friend  near  Vineland,  N.  J. 
where  we  visited  and  although  the  weather 
was  excessively  hot  she  seemed  to  delight  in 
the  active  daily  work  on  the  farm.  She  is 
not  only  well  posted  in  the  theories  promnl- 
gated  at  the  Department,  but  is  conversant 
with  the  practical  details  of  farm  labor  and 
if  she  had  to  follow  the  plow  as  a  means  of 
subsistance  she  would  be  quite  at  home  at  it 
and  would  .soon  become  a  pii/.e  winner  in 
drawing  a  straight  furrow.  She  isatheoso- 
phist  and  believer  in  reincarnation.  "We 
never  saw  a  person  combining  so  much 
strength,  courage,  vigor  and  executive  ability 
with  the  most  delicate  refinement  and  spiritual 
sensibility. 

67 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  ^om^  apd  (jardei} 


Her  infitteace  in  Washington  among  a  lai^e 
circle  of  tUe  most  intelligent  people  is  cheer- 
fully admitted  and  her  personal  popularity 
among  all  parties  and  the  ability,  fidelity  and 
faithfulness  with  which  she  performs  lier 
official  duties,  place  her  where  changes  of 
administration  are  not  likely  to  affect  her 
position. 

Should  we  be  asked  who  in  our  opinion  is 
likely  to  be  the  first  lady  selected  by  a  presi- 
dent as  a  member  of  bis  "official  family,"  as 
the  cabinet  is  now  called,  we  should  not  hes- 
itate to  say  Annie  Force  English.  As  it  is 
proposed  to  establish  a  Bureau  of  Domestic 
Science  and  this  will  probably  be  in  the  Agri- 
cultural Department,  it  looks  as  if  the  way 
wasgr.tduallyopening  for  a  lady  to  be  invited 
to  grace  the  ministiy  and  who  could  be  found 
so  well  qualified  as  one  who  has  already  suc- 
cessfully served  in  the  Department  about  ten 
years,  and  whose  executive  ability  and 
'.borough  knowledge  of  details  are  universally 
admitted  ? 

Nations  in  Europe  nre  well  governed  by 
Queens  at  their  head  surely  there  are  ladies 
of  the  United  States  who  might  be  wisely 
selected  for  heads  of  Departments  for  which 
they  are  specially  qualified  by  ability  and 
experience. 


THE  AUDOBON  SOCIETY. 
By  H.  Augusta  Howard. 

A  reform  journal,  whose  editor,  I  am  glad 
to  say,  disapproved  of  any  kind  of  feather 
wearing,  reports  the  organization  of  a  Boston- 
ian  "Audobon  Society"  whose  members 
pledge  themselves  "never  to  wear  any  part 
of  a  bird  or  any  feathers,  except  those  of  os- 
triches or  of  some  of  the  domestic  fowls 
which  are  killed  for  the  table".  The  wearer 
of  the  ostrich  plume  vainly  persuades  herself 
that  the  feather  is  simply  "  pulled  out"  and 
the  ostrich  is  "not  killed".  She  is  obliged 
to  know  that  the  quill  is  deeply  embedded 
in  the  tender  flesh,  and  would  not  readily 
persuade  herself  that  a  similar  experiment 
could  be  practised  on  her  own  finger  nails 
68 


"without  suffering".  Bntnotto  dwell  upon 
this  or  upon  the  certainty  that  the  wearing 
of  any  kind  of  feathers  will  keep  np  the  fash- 
ion of  wearing  all  kinds,  what  possible 
difference  can  it  make  to  a  victim  whether  it 
be  killed  to  be  eaten,  to  be  worn,  or  to  while 
away  the  time  of  its  murderer?  One  murders 
for  foDd  ;  another,  for  feathers  ;  another,  for 
fun !  alas !  And  all,  in  their  tastes,  give 
severally  distressingly  conclusive  evidence  of 
the  low  state  of  their  development — the  slow- 
ness of  their  progress  from  the  barbarous. 
The  "poor  Indian"  of  "untutored  mind" 
delights  iu  his  feathers :  the  civilized  (?) 
woman  delights  in  hers.  The  difference  is 
that  she  arranges  hers  a  little  less  formidably  : 
and  that  Iter  mind  being  supposably  tutored, 
and  there  being  consequently  less  room  to 
account  her  feather-wearing  an  "error  of  tlie 
head",  the  inference  must  bs  the  m^re  dis- 
creditable to  her  heart. 

The  article  further  states  that  a  similar 
society  oi^nir^d  in  Finland  acquired  a  follow- 
ing of  more  than  ii,ooo  within  six  months. 
If  these  women  were  children  we  might  smile 
at  their  inconsistency  as  at  the  little  girl, 
with  the  bird  in  her  hat,  who  indignantly 
heaped  invectives  on  the  "horrid  boy"  rob- 
bing a  bird-nest  under  her  window ;  for  iu 
the  case  of  the  little  girl,  immaturity  warrants 
hope  of  a  more  perfect  fructifying  of  her 
humane  instincts.  Singular  that  a  grown  up 
woman  can  bug  to  herself  the  delusion  that 
she  is  kind  when  in  reality  her  humanitarian- 
ism  means  merely  that  other  people  should  be 
cruel  only  in  the  particular  way  in  which  she 
chooses  to  be  so. 

The  fact  is,  the  meat-cater,  though  guilty 
of  no  other  unkiudness,  is  on  a  weak  ground 
for  attacking  any  form  of  cruelty.  The  sports- 
man they  would  shame  for  killing  birds  has 
always  ready  the  unanswerable  argument, 
"  You  m/ them,  or  other  creatures  which  had 
life."  And  the  horrors  incident  to  meat- 
eating,  the  days  and  nights  passed  by  cattle 
in  transit  without  food,  or  water,  or  proper 
ventilation,  or  cleansing  ;  the  crowding,  and 
consequent  trampling  upon  each  other,  some 
March,. 


d  by  Google 


pood,  jjiotn^  apd  OardeQ 


to  lie  forda7siti  Iielplessagony  before  desti- 
natioti  is  reached  ;  the  metxritess  teasing  and 
pelting  and  bnlljing  by  crael  drivers;  the 
long-drawn-out  a^ony  which  sometimes,  after 
the  horrid  bnichery,  ends  in  being  skinned 
before  death — allof  this  is  well  known  to  be, 
in  many  instances,  far  worse  than  some  of  the 
milder  experiments  of  the  vivisector,  though 
we  would  not  be  constmed  to  apologize  for 
that  most  atrocious  of  practices.  But  it  is  not 
too  severe  to  say  that  for  the  meat-eater  to 
inveigh  against  other  forms  of  cruelty  is  as  if 
the  petty  thief  should  preach  honesty  to  the 
burglar. — H.  Augusta  Howard. 


A  VETERAN'S  TESTIMONY. 
I  am  now  a  thoroughly  established  vegeta- 
rian. I  look  upon  nothing  as  proper  for  food 
but  the  grains  and  fniits.  When  the  £.ord 
created  man  He  appointed  his  food,  tlie  food 
then  prescribed  has  continued  to  be,  and  is  now 
the  best  for  man.  I  confine  myself  strictly  to 
grain,  fruit  and  some  good  vegetables.  Being 
entirely  without  teeth,  moiit  of  my  food  must 
be  cooked  and  prepared  so  as  to  be  quite  soft. 
My  health  seems  to  be  better  established  than 
it  has  been  for  years.  I  am  buoyant  in  spirit 
and  physically  in  every  action.  I  am  actively 
engaged  every  day  from  eight  to  twelve  hours 
and  enjoy  it.  I  have  all  my  food  cooked  well 
and  plainly.  I  do  not  use  condiments  of  any 
kind.  T  think  steam  cooking  better  than  any 
other  piocess.  The  natural  flavor  of  the  grains, 
fruits  and  vegetables  is  better  preserved  by  this 
process.  Food  is  more  gratifying  to  my  taste, 
and  more  satisfying  to  my  natural  wants,  tlie 
freer  it  is  from  all  seasoning.  I  was  78  the  22 
of  Nov.  and  the  long  cold  winter  has  not  kept 
me  in  doors.— J.M.Buell  ,4509  State  St.  Chicago. 


F.,  H.  a  G.  received  with  real  pleasure; 
and  read  wilh.  more  pleasure.  I  pray  the 
good  paper  may  now  go  forth  on  its  mission 
with  God's  richest  blessing,  doing  God's 
good  work,  and  doing  it  in  ever  larger  num- 
bers of  calls ;  and  rejoicing  new  vegetarians 
whom  it  shall  have  won  over  to  the  Edenic 
diet.— A.  T.  de  Learsy. 


"  CHICAGO      VEGETARIAN     SOCiETY " 
Address  of  Wblcoms  by   the   Prssident, 

AI3ERT  A.  SnyDHH,AT  THB  SECOND  ANNUAL 

Banquet. 

This  is  an  age  of  progress. 

Probably  no  reform,  no  movement  which 
has  for  its  object  the  advanced  movement  of 
mankind,  has  ever  been  in  a  more  flourishing 
condition  than  it  is  today.  It  is  so  of  the  food 
reform  movement  And  it  is  true  of  the  Chi~ 
cago  Vegetarian  Society. 

The  progrcBS  and  growth  of  the  cause  of 
vegetarianism  in  a  city  famed  for  its  slaughter- 
houses must  be  regarded  with  joyful  feeling 
and  increasing  hope. 

Tliis  society  came  into  existence  less  than 
four  years  ago,  with  a  membership  of  five. 
Today  it  is  the  largest  local  organization  of 
the  kind  in  the  United  States.  New  names  are 
every  month  being  added  to  the  membership 
roll.  The  brightest  and  brainiest  men  and 
women  in  all  classes  of  business  and  in  the 
professions  are  taking  the  heartiest  interest 
in  the  ot^anization  and  in  its  work. 

That  the  society  will  continue  to  make  con- 
verts and  gain  in  power  and  in  influence  I 
have  DO  doubt.  Yet  I  am  not  optimistic  enough 
to  believe  that  its  work  will  be  completed  in 
the  near  future.  There  are  too  many  influences 
working  against  progress.  The  influences  of 
bigotry,  of  superstition,  of  ignorance,  are 
strongly  against  advancement. 

It  will  take  years  and  years  to  get  the  people 
out  of  the  rut  in  which  they  are  living.  It  may 
take  centuries  to  lead  them  out  of  the  foot- 
steps of  their  ancestors,  who  had  notthe  same 
opportunities  for  the  acquirement  of  knowl- 
edge as  the  present  generation. 

We  know  that  most  people  live  as  they  do, 
and  think  as  they  do,  because  their  parents, 
and  their  graudparents,  and  their  great  grand- 
parents lived  in  the  way  they  are  living,  and 
thougbtthe  thouglils  they  are  thinking.  It 
ties  never  occured  to  titem  to  go  higher. 

How  much  more  rapidly  civilization  would 
progress  if  the  masses  could  learn  to  think 
and  to  investigate !  The  world  is  in  need  of 
investigation  along  many  lines. 


1897 


d  by  Google 


ilpood.  jlom^  apd  Qarde^lj 


There  is  urgent  need  for  an  investigation 
of  the  diet  question.  The  food  problem  may 
seem  an  insignificant  one  to  those  who  have 
given  it  no  thonght,  but  viewed  from  the 
standpoint  of  vegetarianisni,  it  is  a  moment- 
ous one.  I  may  be  prejudiced  when  I  say  it  but, 
I  honestly  believe  that  the  universal  accepta- 
tion and  adoption  of  the  vegetArian  idea  would 
mean  the  banishment — indirectly,  if  not  direct- 
ly— of  most  of  the  attments  and  troubles 
which  perplex  human  kind.  Drunkenness  and 
cmelty  would  be  unknown.  War  and  war  scares 
would  be  unheard  of.  There  would  be  less  sick- 
ness and  less  poverty.  Tbere  would  be  little 
excuse  for  the  existence  of  jail  houses,  and 
insane  asylums  would  cease  to  exist.  There 
would  be  a  better  observence  of  the  golden 
rule. 

The  Cbicaso  Vegetarian  Society  is  glad  to 
extend  the  band  of  fellowship  to  the  other 
societies  of  reform  represented  here  this  even- 
ing. We  consider  all  of  these  reform  move- 
ments notouly  useful  and  commendable,  but 
urgent  and  necessary.  After  all,  we  are  only 
working  to  a  common  end — tbe  eulighteu- 
nient  and  tbe  betterment  of  humanity. 

Let  us  all,  in  our  work,  continue  to  battle 
honestly  and  honorably,  aggressively  and 
nnceasingly,  for  the  sister  reforms  and  the 
principles  which  they  represent,  and  may  the 
knowledge  that  our  common  cause  is  a  just 
one  give  a  vigor  and  constancy  to  our  work 
that  wilt  result  in  a  final  victory  for  the 
right  and  the  truth. 

It  is  a  pleasant  privilege  to  greet  you  this 
evening  in  tie  name  of  the  Chicago  Vegetarian 
Society,  to  wUh  you  a  happy  Thanksgiving  day 
— if  it  is  not  too  late  in  the  day —  and  to  ex- 
press tbe  hope  that  you  have  all  enjoyed  this 
turkeyless  and  wineless  dinner,  gastronomi- 
cally  speaking  and  thqt  some,  at  least,  may 
)>e  benefitted  by  the  intellectual  feast  which 
shall  follow,  that  some  may  gain  thereby, 
new  ideas  and  strength;  and  that  you  will  all 
wish  to  join  with  nsin  the  celebration  of  an- 
other such  event  next  year.  And  the  next. 
And  the  next.   And  many   more. 


A  BUTCHER   INTERVIEWED. 

Finally  the  butcher  appeared.  He  said 
that  he  never  expected  he  would  have  gotten 
into  bis  present  business,  but  now  being  in, 
he  would  probably  continue  it.  He  did  not 
like  the  business  but  tbought  that  as  some- 
body had  to  do  it,  doubtless  be  might  as  well 
be  that  chosen  otie !  I  told  biiu  that  it  was 
a  business  I  should  greatly  dislike,  as  I  could 
not  bear  to  give  pain  to  any  animal.  He 
agreed  wich  me  that  there  was  truth  in  this 
view.  He  did  not  believe  that  the  co^b 
suffered  much  because  they  were  knocked 
senseless  by  the  axe,  but  he  tbought  it  must 
be  very  painful  for  sheep,  because  tbey  g'et 
their  throats  cut,  and  do  not  die  very  speedily. 
He  said  be  had  become  so  hardened  to  death 
that  he  often  felt  willing  to  kill  a  man  when 
entering  into  a  dispute  with  him  (I  took  care 
not  to  provoke  him). 

Just  think  of  a  business  which  creates  such 
feelings  in  a  man  !  Imagine  a  business  which 
would  tend  to  make  a  man  a  thief.  That 
would  be  bad  enough,  but  to  make  a  man  fit 
for  a  murderer !  Naturally  enough  where  the 
life  long  occupation  is  to  take  and  destroy 
life,  destruction  of  other  forms  cannot  be  es- 
pecially difficult.  Thus  the  abominable 
custom  of  meateating  is  accountable  for  the 
degradation  of  a  large  class  of  our  fellow  men. 
If  tbere  be  truth  in  Christ's  assertion  that 
if  a  man  think  murder  in  his  heart,  he  is 
already  a  murderer,  then  can  we  not  hold  ac- 
countable the  cnstom  which  necessitates  the 
creating  of  such  beings  ? — Edward  E.  Howe, 
Hazelton,  Pa. 

Food,  Home  and  Garden  with  10,000 
subscribers  would  become  self-supporting, 
even  at  25  cts.  a  year.  We  prefer  to  send  it  to 
10,000  persons  to  charging  $1.00  a  year  each 
and  sending  it  to  only  3,500  subscribers.  We 
invite  all  our  present  subscribers  to  give  this 
increase  by  sending  $1.00  and  4  names  because 
it  is  essential  to  the  success  of  our  undertak- 
ing and  the  accomplishment  ofthe  work  for 
which  the  paper  has  been  established.  Have 
you  done  this?    Please  do  not  delay. 

The  apple  tree  yields  op  Itn     frail  to  man 
Tbet  pun  and  joy  miy  Gil  Urcs  varied  span. 

March, 


d  by  Google 


pood.  \\otn^  apd  Qardei; 


BOOK  NOTICES. 

Tlie   Ve^tarian  Review,    London,  Eagland. 

|[.ooayear.     Improved    Series.     V,  S.  A. 

Tlieotgan  orthe  Vegetaiian  Federal  Union. 
It  is  publisliing  a  series  of  illustrated  articles 
on  "Vegetarianism  and  Vegetarians  in  Amer- 
ica" by  the  President  of  the  V.  S.  A.  They 
commenced,  Jan.  1897,  with  a  sketch  of  Dr. 
Franklin,  Feb.  no.  the  B.  C.  Church,  March 
no.  the  Graham  Movement. 
The    Chicago    Vegetarian  :     50  cts,    a  year. 

Published    Monthly.     46  Mc  Vickar  Build- 
ing, Chicago. 

The  neat  little  monthly  has  become  a 
necessity  to  the  Vegetarian  movement  in 
Chicago  where  there  are  four  Societies  *  n 
club  to  be  reported  and  notified  of  meetings 
and  where  a  Banquet  &  a  Thanksgiving  feast 
have  become  annual  occurrences.  We  hope 
it  will  be  well  sustained.  It  has  a  good  deal 
of  vital  business  pluck  and  energy  and  is  in 
good  hands. 
The    Sons    of    Ham :        Tale    of     the    New 

South. — Louis  Pendleton,  Boston  :    Roberts 

Brothers,    Philadelphia :     J.  B.  Lippincott 

a  Co.,— Cloth  $1.50 

This  interesting  story  is  descriptive  o  the 
present  condition  of  society,  white  and  colored 
of  the  Southern  States.  It  seems  fair  and 
impartial  but  with  a  strong  tendency  towards 
African  Colonization.  We  regard  the  idea  a 9 
impractical  if  not  impolitic.  The  largest 
portion  of  the  labor  of  the  South  can  be  best 
(lone  by  the  sons  of  Ham  and  there  are  no 
white  laborers  who  desire  to  compete  with 
them  in  cotton  and  sugar  growing.  There 
are  bad  elements  both  white  and  black  and  if 
these  were  weeded  out  by  conviction  and 
transportation  to  some  well  ordered  penal 
colony  in  our  possession  all  disturbing 
causes  might  be  removed.  If  each  state 
would  enconrage  industry  and  enterprise 
instead  of  loafing  and  lynching  there  would 
soon  be  nothing  to  complain  of. 
The  Fat  of  the  Land  and  How  to  Live  on  It.— 

Ellen   Goodell  Smith,  M.  D.     Price  $1.50. 

V.  S.  A.,  310  Chestnut  St.,  Philadelphia. 

The  most  practically  useful  book  bearing 
on  Vegetarianism,  Hygiene,  Peace  and  Econ- 
omy that  has  yet  been  published.  It  contains 
important  information  from  every  available 
source  on  the  subjects  treated.  Its  directions 
for  making  bread  are  alone  worth  the  price  of 
the  volume,  but  its  recipes  cover  the  ground 
of  Hygienic  living  without  going  to  the  ex- 
treme of  simplicity.  Dr.  Smith  has  brought 
together  a  mass  of  information  which  is 
invaluable  to  those    who  desire    to  get    the 

J897 


good  out  of  the  Vegetarian  system  in  a  hygien- 
ic sense  and  there  are  many  old  established 
vegetarians  who  could  profit  by  reading  the 
book  and  trying  the  suggestions  it  contains. 

The  chapter  on  Vegetable  Oils,  a  subject  to 
which  Dr.  Smith  has  devoted  much  attention 
and  on  which  she  has  experimented  a  good 
deal,  is  very  suggestive.  She  truly  says: 
"we  require  a  certain  amount  of  fat  and  the 
fats  obtained  from  seeds  and  nuts  are  superior 
in  every  way  to  animal  fats  and  wherever 
introduced  thetr  own  merits  will  guarantee 
their  permanency."  She  then  describes  the 
oils  obtained  from  the  olive,  cocoanut  and 
cotton  seed  as  those  most  available  at  the 
present  time.  But  it  is  almost  impossible  to 
obtain  the  olive  oil  nnndu Iterated,  two  thirds 
of  the  oil  sold  for  Olive  being  produced  from 
the  seeds  of  cotton. 

Dr.  Smith  speaks  very  highly  of  the  Amer- 
ican Cocoanut  butter,  prepared  by  the  Pure 
Food  Product  Co.,  Chicago,  and  sold  by  the 
Vegetarian  Society,  which  she  has  tested  and 
become  satisfied. 

Her  personal  experience  with  Diamond 
Butter  Oil  is  quite  amusing.  Slie  prepared  a 
Tlianksgiving  Dinner,  using  the  Diamond 
Butter  Oil  only,  in  the  pastry  and  in  cooking, 
but  without  informing  the  guests.  After 
dinner  her  guests,  were  speaking  in  high 
terms  of  their  dinner  and  remarked  that  they 
had  none  of  the  drowsiness  and  other  un- 
p1ea£ant  sj'mptoms  which  was  usual  with 
thera  after  a  ThanksgivingDinner  where  tur- 
key ftc.  had  been  served.  Dr.  Smith  then 
informed  them  to  their  surprise,  that  no  milk, 
cream,  butter,  animal  fat  of  any  kind  had  been 
employed  in  Ihe  cooking  of  the  dinner.  Ex- 
planations and  recipes  were  freely  given  and 
her  friends  have  since  used  daily  this  Dia- 
mond Butter  Oil  which  is  literully  ' '  the  fat  oi 
the  land." 

Tliese  friends  have  found  that  the  desire  for 
animal  food  and  the  consumption  thereof  has 
greatly  diminished.  She  also  relates  that 
persons  subject  to  rheumatism  and  neuralgia 
have  been  entirely  free  from  it  since  using 
vegetable  fats  and  discarding  animal  food, 
butter  and  milk.  Others  have  escaped  com- 
mon colds  and  La  Grippe  although  living  in 
the  midst  of  these  troublesome  winter  com- 
plaints. This  corresponds  with  our  own 
experience  this  present  winter.  We  have 
been  surrounded  by  persons  suffering  these 
winter  complaints  and  yet  have  escaped  them 
all,  having  used  cocoanut  butter  even  as  a 
table  butter  as  well  as  for  cooking. 

This  book  should  be  in  every  kitchen  in  the 
land  and  then  there  would  be  little  sickness 
winter  or  snmuier. 

71 


d  by  Google 


i  pood.  |1om^  atfd  OardeQ 


BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN. 

An  Addrsss  Delivered  at  the  December 
JIeeting,  1896,  OP  THE  West  Side  Branch 
OP  THE  Chicago  Vegetarian  Society, 
Bv  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clbbb,  F.  E.  Green, 
Presidikc. 

Among  the  vegetarian  ex  peri  lu  enters  of 
the  18th  century,  were  Tryon,  Sir  Isaac 
Newton.  Swedenborg,  Wesley  and  in  America, 
Benjamin    Franklin. 

As  a  practical  philosopher  Franklin  stands 
the  most  prominent  of  the  century  in  which 
he  lived.  His  views  on  vegetarianism  should 
be  better  understood. 

He  places  bis  vegetarian  habits  in  his  yonth 
among  the  tilings  that  contributed  to  bis 
remarkable  success. 

Born  in  Boston,  Mass.,  Jan.  6th,  1706  old 
style  17th  new  style. 

He  was  the  youngest  of  fifteen  boys  in  a 
family  of  17  children. 

Apprenticed  to  bis  brother  to  leam  print- 
ing. 

Tryoii's  H^ay  to  Health  Long  Life  and 
Happiness  fell  in  liis  way  and  as  it  recom- 
mended vegetarian  diet  he  determined  to  try 
the  experiment  of  living  without  the  flesh 
of  animals. 

He  proposed  to  his  brother  that  if  he 
would  pay  him  half  what  be  was  paying  for 
his  board,  he  would  board  himself.  This 
being  readily  accepted,  he  foand  he  could 
board  himself  on  vegetable  food  for  half  the 
amount  bis  brother  paid  bim  and  he  devoted 
what  he  saved  in  this  way  to  the  purchase 
of  books.  He  states  he  had  another  advan- 
tage: while  his  brother  and  the  rest  were 
gone  to  their  meals  he  quickly  dispatched  his 
lig^ht  repast,  consisting  of  a  biscuit,  or  slice 
of  bread  and  a  handful  ol  raisins  or  a  tart  and 
a  glass  of  water,  and  had  the  rest  of  the  time 
till  tbeir  return  for  study  in  which  he  found 
he  "made  the  greater  progress  from  the 
clearness  of  bead  and  quicker  apprehension 
which  generally  attend  temperance  in  eating 
and  drinking." 

Here  Franklin  distinctly  affirms  the  posi- 
tion taken  by  Sir  Isaac  Newton,  Swedenborg, 
Wesley  and  Sir  Isaac  Pitman. 


Franklin's  success  as  a  writer  commenced 
at  this  time  as  shown  by  the  contributions  he 
made  to  his  brother's  newspaper,  the  N^fw 
England  Courant,  of  wliicfa  he  relates  an 
interesting  anecdote.  He  was  at  work  as 
an  apprentice  at  the  ca.K  when  his  contribu- 
tions were  criticised  and  attributed  by  the 
editoral  staff  to  persons  of  high  character  for 
learning  and  ability. 

Benjamin  long  before  bis  term  of  appren- 
ticeship had  expired,  became  editor  and 
manager  of  the  paper. 

His  brother,  however,  still  imposed  upon 
him  the  hardships  of  an  apprentice,  and  he 
determined  to  leave  him. 

He  made  his  way  to  Philadelphia  as  a  traiup 
in  search  of  work.  He  there  bought  three 
penny  rolls  and  while  eating  one  had  tbe 
others  under  each  arm  while  walking 
the  streets  of  Philadelphia. 

He  soon  procured  work  with  Mr.  Bradford. 

He  relates  how  he  attempted  to  make  a 
vegetarian  of  his  friend  Keimer  who  was  very 
fond  of  flesh  meat  and  a  voracious  eater. 
Keimer  wanted  to  start  a  new  religious  sect 
and  he  wanted  Franklin  to  aid  him  by  his 
argumentitive  ability.  Keimer  adopted  the 
7th  day  Sabbath  and  the  Nazarite  beard. 
Franklin  disagreed  with  bim  in  this  and 
therefore  proposed  as  a  compromise  to  adopt 
Keimer's  views  on  the  Sabbath  and  the  beard 
if  Keimer  would  give  np  eating  the  fleahof 
animals.  Keimer  agreed  on  condition  that 
Franklin  lived  in  the  same  way.  They 
continued  three  months  to  the  great  amuse- 
ment of  Franklin  who  saw  that  Keimer  was 
all  the  timt^  longing  for  "the  flesh  pots  of 
Egypt"  as  lie  pronounced  it.  Then  Keimer 
ordered  a  roast  pig  and  invited  several  friends 
to  partake  but  so  impatient  was  he  and  so 
hungry  for  the  pig  that  he  actually  ate  it  all 
before  his  guests  arrived.  During  this  exper- 
iment, although  their  cook  providckl  some  40 
differaut  dishes  in  rotation,  under  Franklin's 
recipes,  the  costdid  not  exceed  eighteen  iSctti. 
a  week  each . 

When  working  in  London  as  a  journeyman 
printer  he  was  accustomed  to  carry  two  forms 
March, 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


PI  pood.  }lom?  ztfd  ^rdei? 


upstairs,  one  in  each  hand  while  aU  the  other 
printers  took  two  hands  to    carry  one  form. 
They  were  beer  drinkers  and  beef  eaters  while  . 
Franklin  drank  water  and  preferred  vegeta- 
rian fare. 

He  speaks  with  great  respect  of  a  Catholic 
lad^  who  lived  as  a  nnn,  in  London,  who 
devoted  her  fortune  to  cliarity  and  subsisted 
on  oatmeal  and  water  gniel,  who  although 
pale  was  never  sick. 

The  proverb  "Seestthon  a  man  diligent 
in  his  calling  he  shall  stand  before  kings" 
was,  he  says,  literally  fulfilled  in  bis  case  as 
be  stood  before  six,  and  one  of  them,  the  king 
of  Denmark,   invited  bim  to  dinner. 

Franklin  was  to  the  i8th  century  what 
Edison  and  Morse  and  Bell  are  to  the  19th. 
For  tbegreat  achievements  in  electricity  which 
will  ever  distinguish  the  i9tb  century,  Frank- 
tin,  with  his  simple  habits  and  bis  experi- 
ments, prepared  the  way  in  the  i8th,  and  how 
far  the  world  is  indebted  to  bim  and  his 
clear  headed  perception  can  never  be  fully 
developed  or  known.  The  electric  lisht,  the 
electric  motor,  and  street  car,  the  electric 
telegraph  and  phonograph  and  the  cable  that 
encircles  the  globe,  bad  their  germ  in  the 
kite  string  of  Franklin  that  brought  an  elec- 
tric current  from  the  clouds  and  established 
the  identity  of  the  lightning  Sash  with  the 
electric  current  that  has  exceeded  even  steam 
in  its  valne  and  usefulness. 


Germany  reports  a  stone  shoe  sole. — Chatla' 
ttm^a    Times. 

THE      BOARDER'S      QUESTION. 

"Madam,"  said  the  star  boarder,  "we  had 
this  chicken  for  dinner,  j'esterday,  did  we 
not?" 

"Yes  sir,  we  did"  replied  the  misttess. 

"We  also  had  it  for  breakfast,  to  day,  did 
we  not?" 

"Yes  sir,"  came  the  response. 

He  looked  sad  as  he  solemnly  gazed  at  the 
fowl  for  lunch,  and  asked:  "When  may  we 
take  a  last  look  at  the  remains?" — Adams 
"Freeman." 


THE  GNAT  AND  THE  CAMEL. 

Johnnie  put  ■  liTceclln  the  wmter  they  drank: 
AUhand*  cnffedhLm  for  being  so  vtcioua, 

Ttaen  the;  mntdered  Ui«  eel  and  devoured  Us  corpae, 
Snacked  Utelr  Ups  snd  aald  "  ee)i  are  delldou^'. 
— Chu.  B.  Nichols. 

THE  MOTE  AND  THE  BEAM. 
The;  voWd  the  Chinamen  "  heaHieu", 

Becanae  of  bfs  eating  raw  Bsh; 
Then-WieT  m™ikii«dt«woy«t«B. spawn, entmili aw 
all. 

And  laid,  "  What  an  eiqnisitc  dilh,"-C.  R.  Nlchola 


MY    SEVENTV-EIGHTH    BIRTHDAY. 

I  have  long  been  known  as  a  vegetarian  and 
could  now  pass  for  a  man  ten  )rears  younger 
than  I  am.     I  am   78.— J,  H.  Hanaford,  M.  D. 

My  tatap  of  Ufe  la  barnlns  low. 
Iti  llgfal  la  dim  sad  faint  of  late ; 


The  B 

tn  lire'a  fair  dawn  a  rtar  drew  i 
A  welcome,  twinkling  radiant 

It  hoiwred  o'er  my  palh  to  eheei 
And  sent  Iti  centle  rayi  afar. 

It  hlfher  roae  aa  yeara  passed  by, 
Ascending  em-  day  by  di 


a  point 


11  high. 


As  on  II  pressed  Its  apward  way. 
Aa  Iraybood'a  stteam  ■! Ill  onward  Bowid. 

And  aougtat  a  gsy  and  pleasant  clime, 
That  yonng  atar  In  brlghtneaa   glowed, 

And  leached  the  aenith  In  Ita  prime. 
But  soon  a  downward  coune  II  aped, 

AS  mortal  years  then  Bitted  by. 
And  dimmer,  fainter  beams   It  shed, 

Aa  fast  It  nenred  the  western  Ay. 
Ah  I  nan  that  itream  must  cease  to  Bow. 

The  "Sands"  oflife  be  hushed  and  sill  I : 
How  soon  blind  mortals  cannot  know. 

But  only  heed  the  SaTlofs  will. 
Reading.  Haas.  Jan.  17, 1897.  —J-  H.  Hanaford,  U.  D. 


THE  CONN.  DEACON  AND  THE  CLAMS. 
A  good  old  deacon  in  Connecticut  was  very 
pious  and  fond  of  clams.  When  once  U|<on  a 
time  be  attended  a  Rhode  Island  clam-bake, 
he  overtaxed  his  capacity  and  was  sorely  dis- 
tressed. But  bis  faith  in  prayer  was  unabated. 
Leaving  the  pariy,  and  going  down  ou  his 
knees  behind  a  tree,  be  was  beard  to  suppli- 
cate :  "Forgive  me.  O  l^rA,  this  great  sin 
of  gluttony.  Restore  my  health,  and  I  will 
never  eat  any  more  clams."  Then,  after  a 
pause — "very  few — (/  any.  Amen." — This 
must  be  true  because  it  was  published  in 
Dumb  Animals  edited  by  an  Angel. — Ed. 

73 


d  by  Google 


P  pood,  flom^  atfd  (Jardei; 


pood,  \\ott\^  apd  (jardeQ 


PHILADELPHIA, 

Alarcli. 

1897 

VegeUriBii   Society   of  A 

merlu,    Publishn 

■. 

nt    to  Jio    ChfrtDBt  SI. 

REV.    HENRV    S.   CLUBB,    Bdilor. 

-liOB.     1 

WDt^ 

We  make  no  apology  at  tlii!;  [ate  date  for 
pablislting  the  manly  address  of  Albert  H. 
Snyder,  delivered  at  the  Vegetarian  Banquet 
in  Chicago.  There  is  much  more  of  that 
Banquet  deserving  of  permanent  record  and 
extended  circul.ition. 


We  know  persons  who  have  introduced  to 
their  diet  nuts,  ground  and  prepared  by  the 
Vegetarian  Society  mill,  who  have  this  season 
improved  greatly  in  health  and  have  escaped 
the  usual  sad  experiences  attending  the  vari- 
able climate  of  an  American  winter. 


We  are  glad  to  see  that  the  Journal  of 
Zoophily  has  concluded  to  publish  the  excel- 
lent adilress  oi  Mrs.  Fairchild  Allen  delivered 
at  the  Vegetarian  Banquet  in  Chicago  last 
Thanksgiving  Day.  Mrs.  Allen  of  Aurora  111. 
and  Mrs.  Irons  of  Athol,  Dakota,  both  prom- 
inent in  the  anti-cruelty  movement,  are  both 
courageously  standing  up  for  vegetarianism 
as  the  true  basis  of  that  movement. 


Do  not  be  discouraged.  All  this  wicked- 
ness is  permitted  that  the  good  and  the  true 
may  have  something  to  work  at  to  counteract 
it.  We  are  not  responsible  for  it,  except  so 
far  as  we  have  ability  to  prevent  it  and  do 
not  do  it.  Faithful  work  is  the  panacea  for 
all  thi.'i  cruelty  and  the  spirit  which  Christ 
brings  into  the  world  most  eventually 
triumph.  Or  if  it  does  not,  let  us  clear  our- 
selves of  the  responsibility  by  doing  our  best 
to  diffuse  it:  "Blessed  ere  the  merciful  for 
they  shall  obtain  mercy." 


the  cocoanut  were  to  be  used  freely  instead 
of  animal  fat,  both  externnlly  and  internally 
as  a  lubricant  that  rheumatism,  neuralgia, 
coughs,  colds,  la  grippe  &c.,so  common  this 
winter  \rouldbe  almost  unknown.  It  is  pro- 
posed to  commence  the  mannfactnre  of  cocoa 
nut  butter  in  Philadelphia  and  if  it  should  be 
the  means  of  bringing  this  valuable  product 
into  general  use  it  would  r:iise  the  health 
rate  and  reduce  the  death  rate  of  this  city 
beyond  all  computation.  The  demand  for 
Cocoanut  butter  for  laboratories  and  coufec- 
tionaries  is  increasing  so  much  that  additional 
refineries  have  become  a  neesfsity  of  the 
trade. 


H.  Augusta  Howard  seriously  wrestles 
with  the  Audobon  Society  and  maintains 
that  to  be  consistant  in  its  professions  of 
humanity  it  must  come  up  to  the  Vegetarian 
standard.  While  wc  have  a  right  to  ask  of 
onr  Audobon  friends  a  fair  consideration  of  tbe 
subject,  we  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  study 
of  Natural  History  must  lead  to  a  more  cor- 
dial sympathy  between  man  and  his  wards  : 
the  animals,  birds  and  fishes.  We  can  never 
understand  the  real  value  of  these  living 
creatures  while  we  kill  and  eat  them,  any 
more  than  thecaunibal  can  learn  Christianity 
by  killing  and  eating  missionaries.  All 
these  creatures,  as  created  alive,  are  intended 
to  and  are  capable  of  doing  great  service  to 
those  who  will  study  their  nature  and  habits. 
but  when  dead  they  pollute  the  atmosphere 
and  soon  liecome  an  offence  to  onr  senses, 
while  the}'  become  the  innocent  cause  of 
sickness  and  death  to  their  destroyers. 


We  beliex'e,  speaking  from  experience,  that 
if  a   fine  vegetable  oil  like  that    refined  from 


DISEASED  PORK. 
A  recent  number  of  the  Seattle  Press  Inlelli- 
gencer  gives  an  account  of  three  cases  in 
Aberdeen,  Washington,  where  the  patients 
are  suffering  from  trichina  spiralis,  the  deadly 
worm  that  enters  the  human  being's  tissues 
from  diseased  pork.  Dr.  S.  J.  Holmes  of  the 
Board  of  Health,  Seattle,  has  made  microscop- 
ic examination  of  the  pork  with  the  result 
that  he  found  that  the  little  piece  of  pork  in 
his  possession  contained  the  deadly  worm. 
March , 


d  by  Google 


P  pood,  \\ofn^  apd  Qardei; 


Those  using  imported  bacon,  or  poric  in  any 
form  should  be  carerul  to  have  it  thoroughly 
n>oked  or  fried  which  is  the  only  safeguard. — 
Newspaper  Cutting. — Yes,  if  you  must  eat 
these  deadly  wornis  have  them  nicely  cooked 
— delicious  worms  th^t  eat  the  bodies  of 
animals! — Ed. 


THE  BRANCH  SOCIETIES. 
The  four  branch  Vegetarian  Societies  in 
Chicago  and  the  Philadelphia  Society  con- 
tinue to  hold  their  monthly  vegetarian  meet- 
ings with  unabated  interest.  Our  readers 
every  where  are  invited  to  attend  these  meet- 
ings whenever  convenient  to  do  so. 

BUREAU  OF  DOMESTIC  SCIENCE. 
We  nttderstand  that  Senator  Kyle  proposes 
the  establishment  of  a  Bureau  of  Domestic 
Science  in  which  the  subject  of  Food  for  man 
will  be  studied  and  developed.  It  has  long 
been  customary  with  the  Agricultural  Depart- 
ment to  give  instruction  as  to  the  best  food 
for  animals,  white  the  best  food  for  iran  hns 
been  o\'erloolEed.  This  omission  will  be 
supplied  by  the  Bureau  of  Domestic  Science 
which  will  include  cookery  and  the  prepara- 
tion of  food.  Although  it  may  not,  at  first, 
be  along  Vegetarian  lines  the  more  the 
subject  is  studied  from  a  scientific  and  hu- 
maniturian  standpoint  the  more  it  will  become 
evident  that  the  direct  products  of  the  field, 
orchard  and  garden  are  the  most  conducive  to 
human  health,  economy  and  enjoyment 
oflife. 

ADVANTAGES  OF  ORGANlZ.iTION. 
When  we  invite  vegetarians  to  join  the 
Vegetarian  Society  of  America  and  to  co- 
operate in  sustaining  the  organir.ation  by 
contributing  to  its  fund  there  seems  to  be  lit- 
tle conception  of  the  value  of  such  co-operation 
as  only  one  in  ten  or  less  of  those  we  invite 
join.  But  the  advantages  of  the  organization 
are  being  felt  by  all.  We  are  continually 
introducing  to  each  other  persons  of  similar 
tastes  and  objects  in  life  as  we  by  correspond- 
ence are  able  to  do.  The  result  in  some  cases 
is  marriage.  In  other  cases  life  long  friend- 
ship, which  may  be  better  than  marriage.     In 

'897 


other  cases  co-operation  efforts  of  immense 
value  and  result,  so  that  a  central  office,  with 
an  origan,  is  of  immense  value  to  all. 

We  are  continually  receiving  letters  of  in- 
quiry and  we  endeavor  to  meet  every  case 
with  a  corresponding  benefit  by  introducing 
new  personal  acquaintances. 

It  does  not  seem  right  that  the  labor  of  such 
great  value  to  others  should  be  so  inadequate- 
ly sustained.  Many  who  get  the  full  benefit 
of  it  sometimes  do  not  even  join  the  society 
or  send  a  stamp  for  postage,  while  the  clerical 
work  is  performed  almost  without  compensa- 
tion. Will  notour  friends  sustain  the  society 
in  this  useful  work .' 

OUR     ABATTOIR. 

Complaint  was  recently  made  to  ns  of 
cruelty  in  the  preparation  of  cattle  for  the 
Jewish  butchers  at  the  Abattoir.  We  wrote 
President  S.  S.  Learned  of  the  Abattoir 
Company,  who  promptly  replied  that  the 
cruelty  should  be  stopped.  We  also  wrote 
Rabbi  Raphael  Lasker,  who  also  promptly 
replied  that  he  would  aid  in  stopping  it,  and 
we  have  the  pleasure  of  assuring  our  readers 
that  it  has  been  stopped. — Our  Dumb  Animals. 

How  that  the  president  of  the  Abattoir 
Company  and  Rabbi  Raphael  Lasker  have 
promised  cruelty  shall  be  stopped,  it  would 
be  interesting  to  know  how  it  is  done.  The 
usual  punishment  for  assault  or  cruelty  is 
much  less  than  for  killing,  the  latter  being 
the  greatest  crime.  Or  will  the  friends  of 
animals  adopt  some  method  of  killing  by  kind- 
ness? How  delightful  it  must  be  to  these 
Boston  animals  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  a 
kind  butcher ! — A  man  who  will  cut  their 
throats  or  strike  them  on  the  head  with  the 
tHleniioK  of  killing  kindly,  when  if  they 
dodge,  the  blow  may  fall  short  and  strike  an 
eye  or  nose. 

MERCY. 

Here  will  I  hold  -.  \(  Ibere's  ■  pow«r  abave  <a, 
(And  that  there  1>  all  nature  cri«  aloud 
Throush  >11  >>«r  worlu,)  He  muit  deliglil  In  mercy: 
And  (hal  which  he  delights  In  must  be   happlocM. 
—Addison. 
— Happiness  for  all  his  creatures. — Ed. 

75 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  Jlom?  apd  Qardeo 


Attending  tbis  beautiful  banquet,  which  is 
held  to  set  an  example  to  nlankind  of  blend- 
ing the  principlesof  hamanity  and  kindness 
with  our  Thanksgiving  festival,  to  show  that 
the  sacrifice  of  Hfe  ia  not  necessary  to  our 
gratitude  or  enjoyment,  reminds  me  of  a  sim- 
ilar reform  introduced  about  1, 860  years  ago. 

It  had  been  enstomary  from' a  traditional 
practice  of  the  Ilonse  of  Israel  to  make  an  an- 


was  the  lirat  vegetarian  banquet  under  the 
new  dispensation,  and  it  has  been  adopted  in 
nearly  all  Christian  churches  and  liaa  super- 
seded the  animal   sacrifice. 

It  is  true  the  institutor  of  this  new  and 
merciful  order  of  worship  was,  so  &r  as  his 
material  body  was  concerned,  tnade  a 
victim,  but  he  rose  again  from  the  dead 
and  his  birt)t  and  resurrection  are  celebrated 
at  two  of  the  great  festivals, called  Christmas 
and  Ea-ster,  and  all  men  are  being  drawn  anto 
\i\m.— Speech  of  Henry  S.  Clubb  ai  the  ihanks- 


iiual  feast,  cilled  the  Pa:isover,  and  at  this 
feast  an  innocent  lamb  was  tlie  victim  and  Wit 
slaughtered  remains  were  partaken  of  by  the 
guests.  (Now  the  yearly  victim  is  nn  innocent, 
harmless  bird,  called  a  turkey.)  But  then 
there  came  a  great  Innovator  who  had  a  little 
company  of  apostles.  And  lie  taught  them 
the  best  way  of  showing  their  gratitude  to 
their  Heavenly  Father  for  rescuing  them  from 
Egyptian  t>ondage  and  the  l>ondage  of  sin.  It 
is  said  He  took  not  a  leg  of  lamb,  but  a  loaf  of 
bread,  gave  thanks  and  break  it,  and  gave 
to  the  disciples  and  said  :  "Take,  eat ;  this  is 
m3' body  which  is  given  foryou;  thisdo  in  re- 
membrance of  me.  And  he  took  the  cup  in  like 
manner  and  gave  thanks,  and  gave  to  them 
saying;  This  cup  is  the  covenant  in  my  blood 
which  is  poured  out  for  you.  Drink  ye  all  of 
this.  This  do  as  oft  as  ye  drink  in  remem. 
brance  of  me.  And  they  all  drank  of  it.  This 
76 


giving  Banquet  of  the  Chicago  Vegetal 

ety.  jS^6. 


I   Soci- 


The  beautiful  engraving  of  the  "First  Veg- 
etarian Supper"  was  specially  engraved  by 
our  earnest  friend  Emil  Hensler  af  Detroit 
and  presented  to  us  for  Food, Home  and  Gar- 
den, to  accompany  a  repcrt  of  our  remarks  at 
the  Chicago  Thanksgiving  Vegetarian  Banqnet 
where  we  essayed  a  history  of  Vegetarian 
Bauquetn  and  had  to  begin  with  the  first  one. 
We  also  described  the  first  one  we  attended  at 
Heywood's  Hotel,  Manchester,  England,  Jaly 
28lh,  184S,  where  Joseph  Brotherton  M,  P. 
presided.  About  the  time  we  were  speaking  in 
Chicago  a  similar  reference  to  the  Lord's  supper 
was  being  made  in  England. 


The  spirit  of  cruelty  is  the  deadliest 
enemy  to  a  high  civilization. — C.C.  Bonney, 
Prcs.  World's  Fair  Congresses. 

March, 


d  by  Google 


$^^U  ^lonmm  ^ociti^  , 


T    USED  TO  KILL  BIRDS. 
I  OMd  to  kin  bird*  In  mr  boyhood, 

BlncbirdB  and  robins  and  wivni ; 
I  lumlcd  (hem  up  In  the  montiUlni. 

I  hunted  Uietn  down  in  the  Elena, 
I  nem  thouybt  it  «■*  alnful— 

I  did  it  only  for  fun— 
And  I  had  nre  aport  tn  the  tonat 

With  the  ptwT  little  birdi  and  my  gan. 
Bnt  one  boutirul  day  in  the  iprlng  time 

T  spied  a  brown  bird  in  ■  tree, 
■CerrJlr  iwlitfclng  and  chirping, 

As  happy  aa  bird  could  be, 
And  raisins  my  fCfti  In  a  twinkling, 

For  a  moment  the  little  thing  flnttered. 

Then  off  to  the  buihes  it  flew. 
I  Ibllowtd  It  quickly  and  soniy. 

And  (here  to  my  soirow  I  fonnd. 
Right  ctoie  to  iu  oesl  I'ull  of  young  ones, 

The  llltle    bird  dead  on  the  ground  I 
Poorbirdleal    For  food  they  were  catling; 

Bnt  now  they  could  oerer  be  fed. 
Pot  the  kind  mother  bird  who  had  loved  them 

Waa  lying  there  bleeding  and  dead. 
I  picked  np  the  bird  In    my  anguish, 

I  stroked  the  wee  motherly  thing 
That  could  nerer  more  feed  Its  dear  young  ones, 

Nor  dart  throngh  the  air  on  swifl  wing. 
And  1  made  a  firm  vow  in  that  moment, 

when  my  heart  with  such  sorrow  was  stirred. 
That  never  again  in  my  lifetime 

Would  I  Bhoot  a  poor  Innocent  bird  ! 

FROM  A  R.  I.    APPLE  BLOSSOM. 

Dbar  Mr.  Cldbb — I  want  to  write  you  a 
little  lettet,  I  came  to  live  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Biuley  one  year  ago.  I  never  heard  of  vege- 
tarianism before  I  came  here.  For  a  year  I 
have  not  eateir  any  animal  food.  Mamma 
bired  me  to  leave  off  meat,  tea  and  coffee. 
Now  I  am  sure  I  am  much  better  without 
them  and  I  know  it  is  cruel  to  kill  the  poor 
animals  to  eat  them. 

I  am  eif  ht  years  old,  but  little  I  suppose. 
1  never  intend  to  eat  any  dead  animals  again 
as  long  as  I  live.  I  think  fruit  very  much 
better  and  purer. 

I  wish  some  vegetarian  children  would 
write  to  me.  Good-bye,  Anna  Bowen  Bailey, 
177  Ivy  St.,  Providence,  R.  I. 

A  BRIGHT  SCHOLAR. 

I  have  a  sister  who  has  not  tasted  meat  for 
foar  years  or  more.  She  is  fifteen  years  old 
and  one  of  the  brightest  pupils  in  the  Seattle 
High  School.     She  hns  more  grit  and  energy 

1897 


than  any  girl  1  ever  saw  and  she  is  the  only 

one  among  all  the  girls  that  does   not   eat 

meat. — A.  H.  Jacobson,  Woodinville,  Wash, 

A      VEGETARIAN     CAT, 

Our  pet  cat  has  become  a  good  vegetarian 
cat :  eats  brown  bread  and  butter  dipped  in 
lentil  soup,  and  all  vegetables  cooked,  except 
tomatoes.  Cucumbers  raw  are  a  favorite  dish, 
and  plenty  of  milk,  now  and  then,  as  a  great 
favor,  he  has  a  little  honey  or  malt  ( dry  extract) 
which  he  enjoys  very  much. — Mrs  Drake, 
Flushing,  L.  I. 

A  MOTORMAN'S  KINDNESS. 

While  passing  Third  ave.  one  summer  even- 
ing I  saw  a  little  kitten  in  the  middle  of  the 
track.  A  car  was  comiug  full  speed  down 
the  track  and  I  thought  every  moment  the 
poor  creature  would  be  killed.  To  my  great 
surprise  the  car  came  to  a  stop  about  a  foot 
from  the  kitten  and  the  motorman  waited  to 
see  if  it  would  run  away,  but  it  only  ran  around 
in  front  of  the  car.  A  little  boy,  standing  near, 
picked  up  the  kitten  but  it  jumped  out  of  his 
arms  and  stood  again  on  the  track.  At  last 
the  motorman  got  down  from  his  car,  picked  it 
up  and  walked  across  to  the  comer,  and  put 
it  on  the  sidewalk. — May  L.  Gearj',  N.  Y. 
TO  OUR  APPLE  BLOSSOMS. 

We  once  more  are  delighted  to  greet  our 
dear  young  friends  who  are  striving  to  live 
gentle,  loving  lives  and  to  abolish  the  prac- 
tice of  killing  our  fellow  creatures  merely  to 
gratify  our  love  of  killing  as  sport,  or  of  eat- 
ing their  dead  bodies. 

As  we  are  tryinfr  to  communicate  with  you 
every  month,  we  hope  you  will  also  try 
to  make  this  certain  by  helping  in  the  circula- 
tion of  Food,  Home  i  Garden.  This  you 
can  do  by  sending  us  the  names  and  addresses 
of  all  your  friends  to  whom  you  would  like 
a  sample  copy  sent.  Also  by  obtaining  sub- 
scribers whom  we  will  supply,  on  your  order, 
four  copies  for  one  dollar. 

Then  write  us  your  own  case;  how  you 
came  to  leave  off  eating  the  fiesh  of  animals 
and  how  it  has  improved  your  health  and 
complexion  and  given  you  a  happier  life  to  do 
so.     Write  short  letters,  but  write  oflen. — Ed. 

77 


d  by  Google 


"FRUITS,    NUTS     AND     VEGETABLES."        A  CHEESE  FOR  REGENERATIONISTS. 


A  valuable  little  book  published  by  the 
Vegetarian  Society,  England,  is  a.  lecture  de- 
livered by  Albert  Broadbent  Sec.  of  the 
Society,  on  the  above  subject.  In  this  booklet 
Figs,  Dates,  Pmnea,  Raisins,  Bananas,  Grapes 
and  Apples  are  regarded  as  of  the  highest  food 
value,  while  vegetables  are  regarded  as  of 
little  value  as  food:  the  potatoes  ranking  the 
highest  and  the  carrot  next,  but  of  more 
value  than  the  potato,  bygienically  speaking, 
we  think  Mr.  Broadbent  means,  although  he 
calls  it  "medicinally".  We  do  not  quite 
agree  with  the  author  that  vegetables  are  taken 
by  Vegetarians  for  the  medicine  they  contain. 
Medicines  aie  remedies,  while  vegetables 
are  taken  as  wholesome  foods  to  maintain 
health,  on  account  of  their  health  promoting 
qualities. 

It  is  tme  that  both  fruits  and  Vegetables 
are  tiseful  to  take  to  relieve  certain  diseased 
conditions,  yet  they  are  food  and  not  med- 
icines and  Vegetarians  taking  a  moder.ite 
proportion  of  such  foods  will  generally  avcid 
diseased  conditions  and  therefore  wilt  not 
need  medicines.  The  booklet  should  be  in 
every  Vegetarian  home  and  as  it  can  be  had 
for  sets,  it  would  not  be  just  to  the  author 
to  quote  largely  from  it.  For  deep-seated, 
blood  ailments  the  author  contends  that 
vegetables  are  better  than  fruits  :  celery  and 
onions  are  specified  as  excellent  for  purifying 
the  blood. 


I  am  much  pleased  to  again  have  the  pleas- 
ure of  reading  a  copy  of  F.  H.  Si  G. — S. 
W.  Snyder,  Centre  Point.  Liun  Co.  Iowa, 
Centre  Point  Nursery. 

78 


Here  is  a  recipe  for  making  a  cheese, 
which  we  all  find  delicious.  It  has  also  the 
great  advantage  of  being  hygienic,  inasmuch 
as  there  is  no  salt  "in  it,  and  the  milk  from 
which  it  is  prepared  is  sweet  and  fresh.  It 
is  also  fit  for  the  humanitarian  as  well  as 
those  vegetarians  who  indulge  in  animal 
products.  Ordinary  cheese  is  produced  by 
the  introduction  into  milk  of  rennet,  which 
is  (as  my  readers  know)  the  inner  membrane 
of  the  cairs  stomach. 

The  cheese  I  am  introducing,  and  which  I 
first  made  17  years  ago,  is  composed  of  fresh 
sweet  milk  and  fruit  juice.  Perhaps  the 
pine-apple  is  the  best  kind  of  curd-producing 
fruit  there  is,  but  lemons  are  iilways  cheap 
and  handy,  so  I  have  preferred  to  employ 
them.  A  supper  composed  of  such  cheese, 
eaten  with  sliced  tomatoes,  or  even  with 
sliced  cucum1>er,  and  flavored  with  lemon- 
Juice,  would  not  be  a  forerunner  of  the  dreaded 
night-mare.  No  calf  need  be  slain,  nor  the 
butcher  in  any  way  applied  to.  The  only 
drawback  is  that  the  cheese  must  be  made 
frequently;  but  when  once  the  housewife  has 
become  accustomed  to  its  production,  the 
trouble  is  trivial,  and  occupies  but  a  few 
minutes. 

Cheese  is  forbidden  in  my  ^a/«  /or  ihe 
MainUnance  of  Health,  but  such  hygienic, 
vegetarian,  and  humanitarian  cheese  as  this 
can  be  eaten  not  only  with  impunity,  but 
with  benefit.  And  the  whey  which  is  drawn 
off  from  the  cheese,  if  sweetened  and  diluted 
with  barley  water,  forms  a  (.delicious  summer 
drink,  and  a  splendid  febrifuge  and  sudorific. 
~ Herald  of  Health. 

March, 


d  by  Google 


i  pood,  ^om^  apd  Qardei}  | 


FOR    A  MARCH  TEA. 

MENU. 


Lettuce. 

Crackers  (oatmnl,  Eraham   and  Ihilt.) 

Whole    Wheat   Bread.  Date   Bread. 


Tapioca    PaddlDR.  Warm    Maple  Sogar 

Sanafraa     Tea. 
RECIPES. 

Nut  Sandwiches. — Grind  Englisli  walnuts, 
Iiickory  nuts  or  pecans  fine,  and  add  oue-tbird 
as  much  celery  cliopped  fine.  Add  sufficient 
salad  dressins  to  spread  easily  and  place 
between  slices  or  bread  and  butter. 

Celery  Sandwiches. — Chop  fine  several 
stocks  of  celery  {the  heart  and  all)  and  add 
sufficient  salad  dressing  so  it  will  spread 
easily.  Cut  in  fancy  shapes.  All  sandwiches 
should  be  kept  moist  by  wringing  out  a  nap- 
kin in  cold  water  and  placing  over  them. 

Parsnip  Croquettes. — Boil  and  mash  par- 
snips fine.  Then  to  .each  pint  of  them  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  tables poonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  a  dash  of  pepper  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk.  Mix  well  over  the  fire, 
and  when  smoking  hot  add  a  thoroughly 
beaten  fresh  epg.  Spread  the  mixture  on  a 
dish  to  cool,  and  take  the  nut  of  an  English 
walnut,  an  almond  or  a  pine  nut,  and  roll 
around  it  the  parsnip  pulp  until  you  have 
a  good-sized  nut.  Boll  in  egg  and  cracker 
dust,  fry  a  light  brown,  in  plentyof  butter, 
and  serve  hot. 

Apple  and  Banana  Salad.— When  ready  to 
serve,  slice  the  apples  and  bananas.  Mix  well 
with  a  mayonnaise  dressing,  which  can  be 
prepared  the  day  before,  if  necessary.  Serve 
on  the  crisp,  white  leaves  of  lettuce.  Do  not 
allow  this  salad  to  stand  long  after  preparing, 
as  the  apple  and  banana  will  both  tnrn  dark. 
The  fruit  should  be  placed  in  a  very  cold  place 
-in  the  early  momitig,  as  well  as  the  lettuce, 
so  that  all  may  he  crisp  and  cold. 

From  Mn.  Haviland,  New  Vork. 

Date  Bread. — Add  chopped  dates  to  graham 
sponge  just  before  forming  into  loaves. 
1897 


From  Hln  A.  Nichola,  Pbiladelphla. 

Tapioca  Pudding. — 1  cnp  of  coarse  ground 
tapioca,  ^  cup  of  sngar,  i  pt.  of  milk,  z  eggs, 
well  beaten.  Stir  all  together  and  flavor  with 
nutmeg  or  lemon.  Best  to  soak  tapioca  in 
water  over  night. 

Warm  Maple  Sugar. — Take  a  cake  of  maple 
sugar  and  break  it  up,  put  in  a  porcelain  di.sh 
with  a  little  cold  water  and  boil  slowly  until 
it  waxes.  Serve  while  hot  and  stir  as  yon 
partake. 


NUTS  FOR  FOOD. 

The  value  of  nuts  for  food  for  the  human 
family  is  not  less  than  it  was  when  many 
years  ago  they  formed  a  larger  part  of  diet. 
To  return  to  their  greater  consumption  as 
food  would  be  to  increase  length  of  life,  as  well 
as  health,  of  those  who  consume  for  food  the 
natural  products  of  trees,  as  well  as  the  veg- 
etables, so  well  adapted  for  food. 

The  free  use  of  fruit  now  that  it  is  becoming 
more  general,  and  no  doubt  would  be  a  very 
eSective  cure  for  many  of  the  ills  to  which  our 
bodies  have  become  subject.  Cheerfulness 
should  be  more  cultivated  than  it  is  and  the 
free  use  of  nuts,  fmits  and  vegetables  will  go 
very  far  towards  its  accomplishment.  One 
sour  dyspeptic  face  will  affect  the  spirits  of 
many  who  would  look  upon  the  brighter  side 
of  life.  A  cure  would  be  easily  effected  by 
eating  fruit  oftener  and  less  of  the  heavier 
foods,  especially  animal.  The  attention  of 
the  Department  of  Agriculture  at  Washington 
has  been  called  to  the  great  value  of  the  Pecan, 
and  after  a  thorough  iuvcstigatiou  they  are 
now  advising  planting  of  them  all  over  the 
United  States,  both  as  a  food  product  as  well 
as  tlie  great  profits  in  growing  them  for  mar- 
ket. The  pecan  stands  at  the  head  of  all 
American  nuts  for  food  and  is  universally 
liked.  Growing  only  on  this  continent  grow- 
ers have  the  world  for  their  market  so  there 
can  be  no  fear  of  overstocking  the  market  for 
generations.  As  to  profits  iu  their  growth 
there  is  no  wild  tree  that  cau  be  easier  dome-s- 
ticated  nor  one  which  can  be  more  rapidly 
brought  into  large  bearing. — Herbert  Post. 

79 


d  by  Google 


ARBOTcrS. 
Oh,   »weet  Artratm,  wltb    Ihy   pinky    Bower*, 

From  undFrncatli  dry  shrivelled  lean*  come   Torth : 
SpHhs.  OD  whoK  soft  adraiiK  i^im  Winter  lower), 

Hm  driven   hec    idTciury  to  the  fnnea   North. 
The  glghiDK    South    wind    atirs  the   withered   gnue*. 

la   yellow  sunbeanu  dBiting  blue  birds  sing. 
From  thy  sweet,  faintly  tinted  sUra  there  pasae* 

The  first  ran  fracraoce  of  the  comlDg  Sprlng- 
Oh  weary  heart.  whOK  Winter  acema  unbroken. 

Take  courage,  'neath   the   snow    fair  flowera  cling ; 
Take     the   Arbutns   bloasom  as   a  token 

From  Ihat   fair    land   where  relgna  eternal    Spring. 
L.  C.  W. 

The  German  Taniiers  of  Pennsylvania  have 
extremely  healthy  apple  trees  by  washing  the 
bark   with  lime. — Meekan's  Monthly. 


Vegetnrians  should  experiment  in  growing 
fruit  and  vegetables  of  the  finest  flavor  by  us- 
ing vegetable  and  mineral  fertilizers  instead  of 
animal  manure  that  spoil  the  flavor. 


PRESERVING  BEANS  AND  TOMATOES. 
Miss  E.  K.  Shier,  Wolf  Creek,  Tenn..  de- 
sires recipes  for  preserving  string  beans  and 
keeping  ripe  tomatoes  for  winter  use  in 
brine  and  without  vinegar.  Will  our  friends 
kindly  send  us  some  they  have  tried? 


PRUNIS    SIMONI. 

The  new  fruit  was  of  what  is  best  described 
as  plum  color,  a  deep  red,  but  in  shape  was 
more  likea  tomato,  and  the  specimens  shown 
ran  from  two  to  three  inches  in  diameter. 
When  cut  it  was  as  juicy  as  a  plum  but  firmer, 
and  the  comments  made  upon  its  flavor  were 
various.  One  gentleman  thought  it  had  a 
pineapple  flavor;  anothei  thought  it  a  com- 
bination of  plum,  peach  and  apple.  It  was 
certainly  a  delicious  fruit,  and  undoubtedly, 
if  suRceasfully  cultivated,  will  become  one  of 
the  favorite  fruits  in  the  market. 

It  was  produced  by  H.  S.  Simon,  of  Wenat- 
chee,  from  a  tree  brought  from  the  northern 
part  of  China.  For  several  years  he  has  been 
making  experiments  from  tliis  original  stock, 
grafting  on  it  peach,  pniue  or  apricot,  so  as  to 
blend  these  flavors  and  yet  preserve  the  orig- 
inal form  of  the  fruit.  This  season  he  has 
two  of  these  trees  in  bearing.  The  tree  bears 
in  two  years,  and  Mr.  Simon  is  now  convinced 
that  his  experiments  are  a  success.  He  calls 
the  new  fruit  prunis  Simoni. — SeallU  Post- 
fnieUigeacer. 


CATHEDRAL  OAKS,  CALIFORNIA. 
'  Mr.  H.  Wallenstein  who  is  planting  his  fine 
ranch,  Cathedral  Oaks,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal., 
with  fruit,  nut,  olive  and  eucalyptus  trees,  is 
about  to  erect  a  cottage.  It  is  well  sheltered 
and  yet  furnishes  delightful  landscape  views 
of  ocean,  mountain  and  island  scenery  in  a 
perfect  panorama.  He  says  there  are  openings 
for  a  steam  laundry  with  a  good  natural  sup- 
ply of  water,  cheap  fuel  &c.,  wood  cutting, 
beut  wood  rustic  furniture  and  such  industries 
in  addition  to  fruit  growing.  A  strawberry 
ranch  of  i6o  acres  can  be  purchased  adjoining 
BO  that  a  good  Vegetarian  colony  can  be  com- 
menced at  once. 


SUBURBAN  GARDENING. 
The  construction  of  Trolley  roads  into  the 
suburbs  of  large  cities  should  encourage  sub- 
urban gardening.  A  Fruit  and  Vegetable 
Trolley  Car  should  be  run  every  morning 
with  fresh  fruit  and  vegetables  so  as  to  sup- 
ply city  dwellers  direct  with  these  products 
gathered  the  same  day  they  are  to  be  cooked. 
Here  is  a  nice  enterprise  for  vegetarians 
especially,  to  engage  in. 


A  Connecticut  farmer  kept  an  account  of  the. 
small  fruit  grown  on  half  an  acre  of  ground 
and  used  by  his  family  last  3'ear.  He  figured 
on  the  frait  at  market  rates  and  found  it 
amounted  to  $365, or  more  than  $700  per  acre. 
Mai'ch,  1897 


d  by  Google 


Digil,2sdb,G00gIe 


LADV  PAGET. 
{Set  p»gf  83.) 


d  by  Google 


pood,  flom^  apd  Qardep  ■ 


Vol.  I.  No.  6,  New  Series. 


Whole  Number,  7H. 


LADY  PAGET. 


The  half  tone  which  is  herewith  presented 
of  Lady  Paget,  was  kiudly  sent  us  by  Mr. 
Oldfield  of  the  Vegetarian,  London,  and  is 
undoubtedly  an  excellent  likeness  of  a  lady 
whose  character  for  devotion  to  what  she 
believes  to  be  just  and  right  is  well  known 
on  both  sides  of  the  .Atlantic.  We  propose, 
faowever,  in  this  case  to  allow  Lady  Pagett's 
own  words  to  form  the  groundwoik  of  her  re- 
putation in  this  country  as  an  eminent 
vegetarian.  We  quote  from  a  paper  written 
by  herself  and  regret  that  we  canuot  publish 
it  entire. 

"  I  have  all  my  life  thought  that  me:tt 
eating  was  objectionable  from  the  aesthetic 
point  of  view.  Even  as  a  child  the  fashion  of 
banding  around  a  huge  gtosse  piece  on  an 
enormous  dish,  revolted  my  sense  of  beauty  ; 
and  [  was  delighted  when,  on  luy  first  visit  to 
England,  a  small  and  thin  .tlice  of  beef  was 
unobtrusively  shown  to  me  behind  my  left 
shoulder,  to  be  accepted  or  rejected  ab  libitntn. 
I  quite  agree  with  Lord  Byron,  who  said  he 
wonid  not  marryaprettygirl because  she  had 
asked  for  two  helps  of  lobster  salad,  though  if 
beefsteak  had  been  substituted  I  should  under- 
stand it  better  still.  The  bijlek  a  tanglaise, 
which  seems  to  be  the  only  idea  a  foreign 
waiter  ever  has  when  he  is  asked  to  suggest 
something  to  eat  to  English-speaking  travel- 
ers, is  simply  a  piece  of  hot  raw  meat,  far 
more  fit  for  the  Zoological  Gardens  than  for 
human  food ;  for,  despite  of  constant  and  some- 
times indignant  disclaimers,  it  is  generally 
believed  on  the  Continent  that  it  forms  the 
staple  food  of  the  British  nation — that 
tliestrong  limbs  of  the  young  men,  the  lovely 
complexions  of  the  girls,  and  the  bright  eyes 
of  the  children  are  entirely  due  to  this  nour- 
ishment,   and    anxious  mothers  of  families 

1897 


abroad  are  constantly  impressini;  upon  their 
offspring  and  everybody  else  about  theui  the 
utility  and  necessity  of  this  pan.icea,  if  they 
wish  to  be  in  good  health  and  feel  fit  and 
strong.  It  is  a  curious  fact  that  in  places 
where  this  regimen  of  viande  saignanU  is 
followed  anaemia  is  very  frequent. 

"I  have  been  told,  though  I  have  not  read 
it  myself,  that  somebody  has  written  a  de- 
scription of  a  town  where  the  whole  population 
was  vegetarian.  Thechange  this  would  make 
in  all  the  sights  and  smellsisfar  greater  than 
we  at  fii'st  imagine.  The  ghastly  butchers' 
shops  which  meet  one  at  every  turn  appear  to 
me  an  incongruity,  not  to  say  more,  in  this 
civilized  age  ;  they  would  disappear,  as  well 
as  the  fishmongers',  which  are  hardly  any 
better.  Then  there  are  the  sausage  shops, 
which,  esj'ecially  in  southern  countries, 
persecute  one  with  their  pungent  odor.  How 
often  have  I  been  driven  away  while  admiring 
the  facade  of  an  old  Palazzo  or  the  portico  of 
an  ancient  church,  by  the  emanations  of  the 
terrible  pixzickeria  half-way  down  the  street ! 
Another  dread  sight  which  meets  our  eyes 
abroad,  especially  in  Germany  and  Austria, 
where  luuch  veal  is  eaten,  are  the  slaughtered 
calves  paraded  about  the  streets,  a  dozen  or 
two  of  them  hanging  over  the  sides  of  the 
cart.  There  can  be  little  doubt,  too,  that  our 
kitchens  and  dining-iooms  would  be  far  more 
sweet  and  attractive  if  no  animal  food  was 
ever  brought  into  them.  The  eyes  certainly 
would  be  gainers,  and  onr  olfactory  senses  too. 
In  pictures  and  in  poetry  the  tables  are  laid 
out  with  luscious  fruit  and  sparkling  winef, 
whenever  charming  and  pleasant  scenes  are 
to  be  conjured  np  before  our  minds.  When 
coarseness  and  discomfort  are  portrayed, 
'  men   brought    in  whole  hogs    and    quarter- 

83 


db,  Google 


pood.  ]Hom^  apd  Qarde9 


beeves,  and  all  the  hall  was  dim  with  steam 
of  flesh,'  It  is  the  difference  between  one  of 
Giulio  Romano's  g^arden  banquets,  such  as  he 
painted  in  the  vaulted  chambers  of  the  Palaz- 
zo del  Te,  and  a  pleasant  orgy  by  Ostade  or 
Teniers. 

It  is  not,  however,  this  aspect  of  the  Py- 
thagorean regime  which  will  make  many 
converts,  nor  did  it  ever  influence  me  for  very 
long,  as  most  doctors  lay,  or  rather  laid, 
about  twenty  years  ago,  so  much  strees  upon 
the  eating  of  sufficient  meatand  the  anfemic 
tendency  of  this  generation,  that  one  naturally 
felt  it  one's  fiist  duty  to  prefer  health  to 
beauty.  A  more  serions  consideration,  and 
one  which  grew  upon  me  every  year,  was  the 
sad  and  distasteful  necessity  of  killing  a  liv- 
ing being  in  order  to  live  one's  self.  The 
great  mystery  of  pain  in  this  world,  which 
if  it  gets  a  hold  upon  the  miud  is  so  terribly 
difficult  to  shake  off,  often  dimmed  my  great- 
est pleasures.  But  this  feeling  too  I  tried,  but 
less  successfully,  to  subordinate  to  what  I 
considered  right  and  reasonable.  The  first 
serious  shock  I  experienced  in  this  theory  was 
when,  a  few  years  ago,  one  of  the  most  eminent 
German  professors  from  a  great  university 
dined  at  our  table,  and  would  not  touch  any- 
thing because  he  was  a  vegetarian.  I  looked 
over  the  bill  of  fare,  and  realized  with  con- 
sternation that  everything  down  to  the 
sweet  was  either  meat  or  fish  or  fowl,  that 
vegetables  and  fariuaceous  food  played  the 
very  smallest  part  in  it,  and  even  they  were 
tainted  with  sauces  not  free  from  reproach. 
"I    had   the  evening  before  listened  to  an 

historical  discourse  delivered  by  Prof.  O 

to  an  audience  of  all  that  is  most  intelligent 
and  distinguished  in  this  city.  I  had  been 
struck  by  his  extraordinary  vigor  and  clear- 
ness. The  words  dropped  like  pearls  from 
his  lips,  and  though  the  voice  was  scarcely 
raised  it  appeared  lo  search  out  the  remote 
corners  of  the  hall.  Every- rounded -off  sen- 
tence presented  a  vivid  picture  to  the  mind. 
The  subject  was  the  chancellor  Prince  Metter- 
nich,  and  we  all  felt  when,  after  an  hour  and 

a  half.  Prof.  O ended  apparently  quite  as 

fresh  and  collected  as  wheu  he  began,  that  we 

84 


not  only  knew  the  prince  personnlly,  but  that 
we  understood  his  politics  and  theworkiags 
of  his  mind  far  better  than  his  contemporaries 
had  done.  The  thing  which,  however,  im- 
pressed ine  most  was  the  sense  of  power  held 
back,  and  to  the  good  as  it  were,  which  the 
professor  gave  nie  while  speaking,  and  even 
after  he  had  finished.  When,  therefore,  the 
iiext  day  he  told  rae  that  he  never  touched 
animal  food,  I  was  very  curious  to  hear  his 
experiences. 

"  He  told  me  that  some  years  before  he  had 
been  very  ill,  nigh  unto  death,  and  given  up 
by  all  the  doctors.  Then  came  one  who  said 
he  could  cure  bim.  All  the  strong  soups  and 
t>eef  jellies  and  raw  minced  meat  were  elimi- 
nated and  replaced  by  fruit  and  light  farina- 
cons  food,  but  fruit  especially,  and  he  soon  got 
well  and  strong — so  well  and  strong,  indeed, 
that  he  determined  to  go  on  with  his  simple 
f.ire,  especially  as  he  felt  au  unwonted  ease 
and  extraordinary  lucidity  of  the  intellect 
when  working.  His  wife,  he  told  me,  soon 
followed  his  example,  and  also  his  daughters 
and  sons-in-law.  At  last  his  servants  came 
and  said  they  would  like  to  be  vegetarians  too, 
as  it  seemed  to  agree  so  well  with  their  mas- 
ters. I  felt  that  where  so  clever  a  man  was 
so  fully  convinced  of  the  expediency  and 
efficiency  of  this  diet  that  he  carried  his 
whole  faintly  and  household  with  him,  he 
must  have  gone  into  the  question  deeply,  and 
have  the  very  best  reasons  upon  which  to 
found  his  belief.  I  could  not  enter  with  him 
into  further  discussion,  as  he  had  to  leave 
Vienna,  but  he  .sent  uie  some  books  on  the 
subject:  These  books  were  German,  and  they 
would  be  well  worth  translating,  for  their 
whole  tone  in  tike  a  bracing  mountain  air.  In 
every  one  of  them  vegetable  diet  is  the  foun- 
dation whereon  is  built  an  edifice  of  hygiene, 
which  if  we  could  or  would  but  strictly  follow 
might  bring  ns  to  a  pinnacle  of  animal  spirits 
and  bodily  vigor  only  lo  be  compared  to  the 
centaur  of  Henry  de  Guerin.  Tothosewho 
have  not  read  this  charming  fragment,  let  rae 
recommend  it  as  a  tonic  on  a  day  of  languor 
and  ptostration.  The  thorough  enjoyment  of 
life  and  strength  in  which  the  centaur  re\els 
April, 


d  by  Google 


P  pood.  \{om^  apd  (larde9 


while  careering  over  wind-swept  plaine, 
down  breezy  m on ntaiii -sides,  plunging  into 
deep  green  forests  with  the  scent  of  the 
earth  and  wood  flowers  in  the  air,  is  better 
than  any  dose  of  snl  volatile  or  quinine. 
These  little  German  books,  for  nor.e  of  them 
are  very  long,  have  mainly  for  their  object 
to  bring  us  back  to  a  healthier  and  simpler 
mode  of  life.  They  are  full  of  cold  water  and 
open  windows  by  day  and  by  night.  Sun- 
baths  and  air-baths  iu  the  woods  and  on  the 
hills,  swimming  and  gymnastics,  everything 
iu  the  simplest  and  most  economical  lines, 
as  they  are  mainly  written  for  schools  and 
the  middle  classes,  where  expensive  adjuncts 
must  be  omitted.  No  medicines  are  tolerated 
by  the  strict  v^etarian  ;  everything  is  cured 
by  diet,  exercise,  water,  hot  or  cold,  or  in  the 
shape  of  steam. 

"There  are  now  all  over  Germany  and 
Anstna  a  great  number  of  what  are  called 
"  Nature  doctors,"  who  cure  on  these  princi- 
ples, though  they  need  not  necessarily  be 
vegetarians.  The  poor  prefer  them,  as  they 
are  often  men  well  off,  who  have  a  vocation 
for  this  calling  :  the  medicaments  cost  very 
little  or  nothing.  Father  Sebastian  Kneipp, 
at  Worichshofen  in  Swabia.  belongs  to  this 
class,  and  the  thousands  he  cures  every  year 
have  made  his  name  famous  in  all  the  German- 
speaking  lands.  He  too  deprecates  the  use 
of  much  meat.  Everywhere  baths  and  sana- 
toriums  are  springing  up  where  cures  with 
these  simple  means  alone  are  effected,  and 
medicines  utterly  discarded.  The  Hygeia, 
a  publication  founded  by  the  well-known 
Dr.  Paul  Niemeycr,  and  edited  at  Munich  by 
his  disciple  and  successor,  Dr.  Gerster,  is  one 
of  the  many  organs  of  the  new  and  indepen- 
dent school ;  many  doctors  and  a  few  laymen 
write  in  it.  It  is  interesting  and  amusing, 
full  of  unexpected  icformation,  and  much 
read  by  the  most  intelligent  section  of  the 
public.  The  German  vegetarian  books  are 
full  of  a  number  of  excellent  recipes  for  dishes 
of  all  kinds,  suited  to  every  time  of  the  jear 
and  to  different  countries,  which  is  most  im- 
portant, for  the  new  fledged  vegetarian  always 
ihinks  he  is  going  to  die  of  hunger.     In  the 


preparation  of  vegetables  the  German  Pytha- 
goriansbearoff  the  piilm,  and  I  am  bound  to 
say  that  even  their  puddings  and  sweets  are 
better  than  those  known  to  the  meat-eater. 
From  what  I  have  heard  of  English  vegeta- 
rianism, I  fancy  that  the  movement,  which  in 
many  respects  might  prove  so  useful,  is 
mvch  impeded  by  the  inadequate  way  in 
which  vegetables  are  cooked,  and  until  this 
defect  is  thoroughly  remedied,  end  a  greater 
variety  is  introduced  into  the  vegetarian  bill 
of  fare,  there  is  no  prospect  of  an  extention, 
which  might  prove  so  great  a  boon  to  the 
poorer  classes. 

"  I  do  not  think  that  anybody  has  the 
right  to  indulge  in  tastes  which  oblige  others 
to  follow  a  brutalizing  occupation,  '  which 
morally  degrades  the  man  who  earns  his 
bread  by  it.  To  call  a  man  a  butcher  means 
that  he  is  fond  of  bloodshed.  Butchers  often 
become  murderers.  I  remember  two  cases  in 
the  papers  last  summer  where  butchers  had 
been  hired  to  murder  individuals  whom  they 
did  not  even  know.  After  this  oomes  the 
irrepressible  thought,  is  it  right  to  take  life  in 
order  lo  feed  one's  self,  when  there  is  plenty 


"Having  answered  these  questions  to  my 
own  satisfaction,  I  plunged  iit  once  into  full- 
blown vegetarianism.  I  got  very  little  to  eat 
and  that  not  very  good,  for  neither  I  nor  my 
cook  was  a  la  hauteur oi  the  situation.  I  had, 
however,  one,  end  that  a  very  great  compen- 
sation— I  felt  superior  to  my  fellow  beings, 
treading  on  air,  my  head  delightfully  clear, 
and  altogether  lifted  up  above  material  things. 

"I  felt  chilled  and  sleepy  by  day  and 
night,  so  tired  that  I  could  hardly  walk.  The 
doctor  said  :  '  Vou  have  no  pulse  at  all,  and 
must  give  in  ;  it  does  not  suit  yon.'  The  win- 
ter was  icy  cold  and  depressing  and  for  the 
time  I  took  the  doctor's  advice.  With  the  first 
breath  of  spring,  when  all  those  delightful 
fruits  and  leaves  and  roots  which  Raphael  did 
not  disdain  to  paint  as  ornaments  in  his  log- 
gias reappearon  our  tables,  I  mademy  second 
methodical  and  successful  attempt,  elimina- 
ting week  by  week  one  kind  of  animal  food. " 


85 


d  by  Google 


^Ipood.  Horn?  apd  (firizf) 


.ARNOLD  F.  HILLS. 
The  picture  which  adorus  the  latter  part  of 
the  present  number  is  a  good  representation 
of  the  person  of  Mr.  A.  F.  Hills,  who,  of 
late  years,  has  become  very  prominent  in  the 
Vegetarian  movement  in  England,  especially 
that  portion  of  the  movement  which  centers 
in  London  where  Mr.  Hills  is  well  known  in 
connection  with  the  construction  of  the 
British  Navy.  Mr.  Hills  and  his  works  occu- 
py a  similar  position  in  England  as  Mr. 
Cramp  and  his  great  shipyard  in  Philadelphia 
oct^py  in  the  United  States.  Mr.  Hills  seeks 
to  turn  the  advantages  of  his  position  to  the 
benefit  of  his  fellow  creatures  both  animal 
and  human.  ,  The  result  is  Mr.  Hills  has  be- 
come the  leading  spirit  in  the  Vegetarian 
movement. 

As  president  of  the  Vegetarian  Federal 
Union,  he  is  a  strong  advocate  of  organiza- 
tion for  effective  work  and  his  efforts  combined 
with  those  of  his  staff  of  literary  workers, 
aided  by  his  liberal  contributions  to  the  funds, 
have  placed  the  Vegetarian  movement  in  the 
front  rank  of  moral  and  religious  agencies. 

The  V^etarian  Messenger,  Manchester, 
expresses  regret  that  "the  exigencies  of 
politics"  prevented  Mr.  Hills  from  contesting 
the  Walthamstow  Division,  at  a  recent  elec- 
tion of  a  member  of  the  British  Parliament. 
But  as  Mr:  Hills  is  still  young,  his  prospects 
of  becoming  a  memberof  Parliament  are  still 
good. 

Although  Mr.  Hills  employs  able  and 
accomplished  editors  and  business  managers 
inconnection  with  tbe  periodicals,  he  occasion- 
ally finds  time  from  his  multitudinous  engage- 
ments to  write  a  leader. 

His  writings  usually  indicate  a  strong 
religions  and  humane  sentiment  as  the  basis 
of  his  advocacy  of  tbe  Vegetarian  principle. 
In  starting  out  with  the  Vegetarian  Review 
for  1897,  he  writes : 

"With  its  first  issue,  in  the  jubilee  year, 
the  Vegetarian  Review  appears  in  what  I  hope 
will  be  considered  a  more  attractive  guise,  and 
1  take  the  opportunity  of  asking  our  Readers 
to  use  their  best   endeavors   to   make   tliis 


monthly  organ  of  the  Vegetarian  Federal 
Union  more  widely  known.  There  are  so 
many  ways  in  which  the  friends  of  a  paper 
can  promote  its  progress  and  prosperity. 
They  can  encourage  the  Editor  with  the  appre- 
ciative recognition  of  what  pleases  them  ;  they 
can  stimulate  him  with  the  suggestive  indica- 
tion of  what  would  please  them  ;  they  can 
Spare  him  the  infliction  of  the  dreary  drip, 
drip,  drip  of  desultory  and  destructive  criti- 
cism ;  they  can  show  their  interest  in  tbe 
paper  first  by  buying  it  for  themselves,  and 
then,  by  presenting  it  to  their  friends 
and  neighbors,  saying,  "Rejoice  with  us,  for  we 
bringyougood  tidings  of  great  joy."  During 
tbe  coming  Jubilee  year  the  V^etarian  Review 
should  find  its  way — at  least  into  every  Vege- 
tarian home — and  if  possible  into  every 
religious  home  in  the  land — for,  indeed,  there 
is  no  truth  which  will  so  co-ordinate  and  cor- 
relate all  other  truths  as  the  message  of  mercy 
and  purity  and  peace  which  the  Vegetarian 
Gospel  proclaims.  Vegetarianism  is  in  the 
best  sense  of  the  word  aReligion,  forit  binds 
together  and  harmonizes  all  those  divine  prin- 
ciples of  love,  justice,  and  perfection  which 
God  has  ordained  for  the  governance  of  His 
universe.  Therefore  I  say,  that  the  Vegetarian 
Review  should  find  its  way  during  the  coming 
year  into  every  religious  home,  and  the 
impulse  of  its  injunction  should  be  brought 
to  bear  upon  every  earnest  heart.  Who  then 
shall  be  the  messengers  of  this  glorious  dispen- 
sation f  Wlio  shall  be  the  Heralds  of  the 
coming  Golden  Age  ?  Who  shall  hasten  with 
exceeding  great  joy  to  publish  peace  to  the 
warring  discords  of  the  land  of  tbe  shadow 
of  Death?  Surely  our  readers  will  be  eager 
to  enroll  themselves  for  this  Jubilee  crusade. 
The  fields  are  white  to  the  harvest,  God 
grant  a  great  multitude  of  workers  may  be 
moved  to  go  forth  and  gather  in  the  sheaves 
for  the  glory  of  the  Lord." 

Mr.  Hills  is  cosmopolitan:  be  is  as  anxious 
for  the  prosperity  of  tbe  movement  in  this 
country  as  in  England  and  desires  the  Vege- 
tarian Federal  Union  to  include  the  whole 
world  in  its  operatious  and  beneficence. 
April, 


d  by  Google 


I  received  the  Febniary  issueof  F.,  H.  «  G. 
I  bavereadujoatof  thearticlea.  Ibelievethis 
is  the  best  number  I  have  seen. — Edward  G. 
Schafier,  El  Passo,  Ilia. 


pood.  |lom^  apd  OardeQ  | 


I  have  studied  this  subject  for  the  last  four 
years  and  it  has  been  the  means  of  saving  my 
life,  I  am  very  thankful  to  Providence  that 
I  have  embraced  this  vegetarian  system.— Geo. 
W,   Brown,  North  Danville,  N.  Y, 


A  Berlin  physician  has  made  experiments 
which  show  that  certain  animals  which  we  eat 
may  swallow  poisonous  matter  insufficient 
to  till  them,  but  sufficient  if  used  as  food  to 
poison  man  or  dogs.— PAt/a.  Record. 

Wc  have  just  welcomed  again  our  dear  old 
friend  Food,  Home  &  Garden.  We  believe 
so  mach  in  the  Vegetarian  movement  because, 
being' considered  from  any  point  of  view  it  is 
nlwaysfound  to  be  wholesomeand  salutary. — 
Fr.  Louis  Paroli,  St  Michael's  Church,  Annnn- 
ciation  Square,  New  Orleans.  La. 

When  the  mind  is  enlightened,  and  the  will 
properly  directed,  we  can,  through  the  exer- 
cise of  conscience  and  the  love  of  right, 
overcome  felse  habits  and  customs  and  learn 
to  like  and  assimilate  only  that  which  is  good 
for  us.  The  ideal  of  vegetarianism  is  so  broad- 
ened, that  its  cuisine  is  not  only  elaborated  as 
to  varied  dishes,  bnt  made  tempting  as  well 
as  wholesome.— Martha  J.  Anderson,  Mt. 
Lebanon,  N.  Y. 


Humanity  is  on  the  thre.shold  of  a  new  life. 
Science,  true  daughter  of  Old  Father  Time, 
will  unite  with  religion  in  altering  ail  things 
until  theearth  will  be  made  new,  and  the  pur- 
pose of  the  ages  will  be  accomplished.  There 
shall  be  no  more  curse.  Declare  the  whole 
counsel  of  God,  my  brother,  that  yon  may  be 
clear  of  the  blood  of  all.  I  often  think  of  you 
and  your  work.  Remember  that  time  and 
space  are  absorbed  in  God.— Mary  F.  Selby, 
Richmond,  Tud. 


upper  circle  of  N.  Y.  society  of  whom  she 
is  a  great  favorite.  They  are  in  fact  Vegeta- 
rian banquets  and  are  doing  much  to  make 
vegetarianism  fashionable. 


STELLA.    THE    GYPSY    QUREN. 
This  beautiful  and  accomplished    lady  has 
been  giving  a  series  of  entertainments  to  the 
'897 


familV  coming  over. 

My  family  has  eaten  less  meat  this  year 
than  any  year  since  we  began  to  decrease  the 
allowance.  My  boys  care  very  little  for  it. 
We  make  a  fruit  breakfast,  a  vegetable  and 
lentil  dinner  and  light  supper.  Personally  I 
eat  apples  for  breakfast,  apples  and  nuts  for 
lunch  and  a  salad  meal  at  6  o'clock  containing 
abundant  supply  of  carbon,  nitrogen  and 
phosphate. — Chas.  A.  Hamilton,  Boys'  High 
School,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


THE  PHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  S'Y. 
At  the  March  meeting  of  the  Phila.  V.  S'y 
there  was  a  good  attendance.  A  paper  was 
read  by  Dr.  J.  Harvey  Lovell  on  "Milk", 
Tbe  same  officers  tliat  served  so  welt  during 
the  past  year  were  unamiously  re-elected. 
(See  advt)  Prof.  Doolittle  author  of  "Man  an 
Open  Book,"  declared  himself  a  convert  to 
vegetarianism  and  consented  to  deliver  an 
address  at  the  next  meeting  and  to  illustrate 
the  lecture  by  delineations  of  character  of 
persons  in  the  audience. 


THE  LOGIC  OF  VEGETARIANISM. 
I  have  led  several  friends  into  the  pure  diet 
system  and  they  in  turn  are  enlightening  and 
benefitting  others  for  the  logic  contained  in 
true  vegetarian  argnmenta  is  beyond  question 
and  convincing  to  any  mind  that  can  hold 
facts  together.  The  whole  moral  view  of  the 
question  isclear,  that  slaughtering  is  unnec- 
essary, as  the  laws  of  nature  regul.nte  quantity 
of  incarnations  by  conditions,  and  killing  by 
flood,  storm  and  famine.  If  people  have  to 
eat  animals  to  get  rid  of  them  why  don't  they 
eatthose  they  want  to  get  rid  of,  cats,  dogs. 
snakes,  lions,  tigers,  ftc ;  why  do  they  raise 
vegetarian  animals  for  the  express  purpose  of 
killing  them  ?  Moreover  if  all  vegetarian 
animals  are  purer,  its  a  wonder  they  too 
would  not  like  to  be  purer,  by  eating  their 
food,  uncorrupted  by  murder. — Alfred  H. 
Howe,  149th  St.  ft  Trinity  ave.,    N.  Y. 

87 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  Jiom^  apd  (JardC9 


AFTER  EIGHTEEN  MONTHS'  TRIAL. 

It  was  some  years  ago  I  became  acquainted 
witli  a  vegetarian  from  principle.  It  was 
deeply  interesting  to  tne  at  the  time  and  I  at 
once  began  to  tbink  upon  the  subject  from 
two  points  of  view,  viz.  r  that  of  liealth.  and 
cruelty  to  animals.  About  eighteen  months 
ago  I  resolved  to  dispense  with  all  kinds  of 
flesh  for  food  and  the  result  has  been  very 
satisfactory. 

The  labor  of  preparing  food  has  been  greatly 
decreased  and  also  the  cost  of  living.  I  iind 
I  can  do  Justus  much  physical  labor  on  a  diet 
wholly  of  vegetables  as  when  I  indulged  in 
the  eating  of  flesh. 

The  idea  that  we  must  have  meat  if  we  work 
hard  I  have  proved,  to  my  own  satisfaction,  to 
be  entirely  wrong. 

I  have  better  health  and  can  do  more  work 
than  I  could  two  years  ago. 

I  have  two  little  girls  and  I  expect  to  rear 
them  on  a  vegetable  diet  and  to  stamp  upon 
their  minds  while  young,  the  necessity  of 
leai-ning  to  "liveand  let  live," 

I  believe  that  a  universal  vegetable  diet 
would  do  more  to  relieve  dumb  animals  from 
cruelty  than  any  other  one  thing.  I  do  enjoy 
the  recipes  in  Food,  Home  and  Garden  very 
much  and  at  once  endeavor  to  appropriate 
them  as  well  as  all  other  knowledge  which 
reaches  me  through  its  columns. — Mrs.  R.  A. 
Gale,  Rogersville,  Mo. 


THE     ALTRUISTIC      SPIRIT. 

I  think  our  cause  is  likely  to  be  much 
helped  by  the  i^ave  of  Altruism  that  in  the 
process  of  evolution,  is  -sweeping  over 
the  most  advanced  peoples  of  Christendom. 

The  appeal  lo  the  heart  is  sure  to  be  more 
potent  than  that  to  the  head. 

Heretofore  our  argument  has  been  more 
directed  to  the  reason  and  our  progress  has 
been  very  slow. 

If  we  can  now  arouse  the  finersensibilittes 
of  our  flesh  eating  people  against  the  horrors 
of  the  abattoir  I  feel  confident  we  shall  quicken 
the  advance  of  our  rational,  righteous  and 
humane  movement. 

Ask  any  kneaphogisl  if  his  choice  of  flesh 


depended  upon  his  or  her  doing  the  ktllinE 
there  would  bean  immediate  revulsion. 

Push  the  question  by  asking  if  she  or  lie 
lias  any  moral  risht  to  force  another  to  do 
what  is  so  revolting  to  all  that  is  tender, 
sweet  and  considerate  in  our  nature  and  you 
irresistably  raise  this  query  in  the  mind  of 
the  culprit :  Shall  1,  for  the  mere  temporary 
gratification  of  my  palate,  force  my  fellow  man 
to  an  avocation  that  outrages  every  humane 
and  unselfish  instinct  of  my  heart? — an  avo- 
cation that  I  would  not  only  revolt  from 
myself,  but  would  not  tolerate  the  thought 
of  one  who  was  near  and  dear  to  me  from 
following  ? 

The  writer  lias  been  a  vegetarian  for  welL 
nigh  unto  half  a  century  and  has  through  all 
that  period  been  virtually  exempt  from  any 
lingering  illness.  The  almost  infinite  variety 
afibrded  by  fruits,  cereals  and  vegetables 
coupled  with  such  aninialized  products  as 
eggs,  and  milk  in  its  many  forms,  is  aban- 
daiitly  sufficient  to  gratify  the  most  craving 
palate  while  every  element  required  to  sus- 
tain  the  body  in  its  best  estate  of  health, 
strength  and  beauty  is  abundingly  supplied 
thereby. 

lean  truly  state  that  after  these  fifty  years 
of  abstinence  from  flesh,  nothing  save  the 
alternative  of  .starvation  would  tempt  me  to 
subsist  on  an  animal  diet. — Henry  Q.  Mack, 
Dome  Farm  on  Hudson,  Catskill  Station, 
Columbia  County.  N.  V. 


FACED  THEM  LIKE  A  MAN. 

She — Come,  dear,  here  are  some  nice, 
fresh  biscuits  I  cooked  myself.  Put  on  your 
slippers  and  come  to  the  table. 

He — Excuse  me,  dear;  I  don't  think  I'll 
put  on  my  slippers.  I've  always  made  the 
boast  that  I'ddie  with  mybootson. — Yonker's 
SlaUsmati. 


I  do  consider  the  Vegetarian  cause  one  ol 
the  most  important  in  the  world — side  by  side 
with  the  anti  vivisection  cause — not  in  any 
way  second  to  it. — Cynthia  Fairchild  Allen, 
Editor  of  Aiili  Vivisection,  Aurora,  III. 
April, 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  \{oir\^  ijfd  Qardep 


pood,  J^om^  apd  Qardei} 


PHILADELPHIA, 

April, 

1897. 

~"^ 

VegeUriaa   Socletr  of   A 

nt   I031C 

ChMlDU 

St, 

REV.   HENKY    S.   CLUBB,    Sditor. 

3ae  SutwcrlpUOB.  50CM.,  four  S 

bscrlpUoi 

u    fl.»> 

yew. 

AdvoUMuat.     per      line,      one   l,«rtiod.   >o    etut,. 

Mr  Barden  S.  Brookings  inquires  for  a  Veg- 
etarian Badge.  Our  artistic  friend  Emil 
Hensler  of  Detroit,  is  we    believe,    preparing 


Voung  women  students  of  Chicago  Univer- 
sity are  in  revolt  against  being  compelled  to 
eat  pickled  tongae. — Philadelphia  Record. — 
The  vegetarian  sentiment  is  making  good 
progress  in  Chicago  University  as  the  Vege- 
tarian Club  there  is  tbe  favorite  one. 


Quite  a  number  of  my  acquaintances  are 
interested  in  tbe  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  and 
Imay  succeed  in  obtaining  orders  for  several 
mills.— B.  E.  Graef,  244  Lafayette  ave.,  Brook- 
lyn, N.  y. — As  several  orders  at  one  time  de- 
creases cost  of  freight,  we  hope  our  Brooklyn 
friends  r.'ho  desire  a  mill  will  order  now. 


FOR  PUBLIC  LIBRARIES. 
Wm.  D.  Brewer,  Jr.,  while  expressing  his 
delight  at  the  reappearance  of  F.,  H.  and  G 
subscribes  for  four  Y.  M.  C.  Associations  and 
Public  Libraries.  We  always  find  F.  H.  and  G. 
welcome  by  public  institutions  of  this  kind 
and  we  would  like  to  send  it  to  every  one 
where  the  English  language  is  read.  Will  our 
friends  help  in  this  matter? 

MINNEAPOLTS  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 
We  have  a  Vegetarian  Society  of  fifteen 
members  in  Minneapolis,  Minu.  which  is 
growing  finely  and  has  flattering  prospects 
before  it— N,  H.  Hemiup.- Will  our  friends 
ill  Minneapolis  please  send  us  the  names  and 
addresses  of  their  officers  so  that  they  can  be 
made  known  to  the  other  Vegetarians  and 
friends  in  Minneapolis  ? 

1897 


THE  VEGETARIAN  REVIEW. 
We  have  the  pleasure  of  contributing  an 
article  each  month  to  the  Vegetarian  Review 
on  "Vegetarianism  and  Vegetarians  in 
America"  which  like  most  of  the  other  articles 
in  the  Review  are  profusely  illustrated.  These 
articles  when  completed  will  form  a  history 
of  the  Vegetarian  movement  from  the  time 
when  Franklin  ate  his  biscuits  and  raisins  in 
his  brother's  printing  office  in  Boston,  up  to 
the  present  era  of  Hotel  Banquets  and  Holiday 
festivities. 


THE   H.    O.,    HORNBY'S    OATMEAL. 

If  our  friends  in  Philadelphia,  Camden  and 
suburbs  will  kindly  remit  to  us  on  or  before 
June  ist  the  picture  of  clover  blossom  they  find 
on  tlie  H.  O.  packages,  they  will  contribute 
to  the  fund  for  the  free  distribution  of  F.,  H. 
&  G.  to  Hospitals  and  other  charitable  Insti- 
tutions. For  every  such  picture  of  cU'ver 
blossom  received,  we  promise  to  send  one  copy 
of  Food  to  such  as  are  unable  to  pay  for  it, 
whether  designated  by  the  donor  or  not.  This 
is  by  an  arrangement  made  with  the  H.  O. 
Co.,  and  we  trust  our  friends,  in  purchasing 
oatmeal,  will  remember  to  select  the  H.  O. 
brand  as  we  understand  it  is  a  very  superior 
article,  and  report  to  us  if  they  find  it  so. 


SHALL  WE    SUCCEED? 

Mr.  H.  Q.  Mack,  Catskill  Sta.,  N.  Y. 
writes  :  "It  rejoices  me  to  again  greet  Food, 
HouE  AND  Garden,  for  so  many  a  month 
absent  from  my  home.  Now  that  you  have 
a  press  of  your  own  it  is  hoped  you  will  be 
able  to  furnish  the  paper  regularly.  " 

If  all  would  do  as  friend  Mack,  does  this 
would  be  assured.  We  are  doing  our  best 
furnishing  the  vegetarian  public  with  a  paper 
such  as,  with  the  present  number  of  sub- 
scribers, will  only  meet  expences  at  $1.00  a 
year  each,  but  at  the  price  we  supply  it  to 
clubs  it  will  only  pay  with  10,000  subscribers. 
We  prefer  the  large  circulation  because  the 
object  of  the  publication  is  to  extend  a 
knowledge  of  vegetarian  principles  and 
practice  and  so  we  offer  four  subscription's 
for  a  dollar  in  hopes    that     2500     friends  of 


d  by  Google 


jlpood,  \\omz  ai^d  (iar<le9 


the  cause  will  Rend  us  a  dollar  with  four 
names.  Only  a  few  have  yet  responded  to 
this  appeal  and  so  we  have  torepettt.  Tliere 
is  not  a  person  in  this  country  but  could 
save  $i.oa  a  month, (many  could  save  it  in 
a  week,)  by  following  directions  given  in 
this  "publication,  and  surely  $i.oo  a  year 
might  be  appropriated  to  conferring  on 
others  the  blessings  we  enjoy.  Which 
would  our  friends  prefer?  that  we  raise 
the  price  to  fi.oo  a  year  or  that  each 
one  contribute  a  dollar  for  the  ext!:nsion 
of  its  circulation  7  one  or  the  other  plan 
must  be  adopted  if  the  paper  is  to  be 
maintained  without  loss.  We  ofier  the 
alternative.  What  is  your  response  ?  It 
shall  not  be  our  fault  if  the  paper  ts  not 
sustained. 


OF  INTEREST  TO  FLESH  EATERS. 
The  "sheepy  taste"  of  mutton  does  not 
come  from  '^intact  with  the  wool  in  skinning 
or  from  tardiness  in  disemboweling  the  ani- 
mal:  it  is  of  fiir  deeper  origin.  It  comes  from 
poverty,  unhealthy  condition,  old  age  and 
similarcauses. — PAila.  Record. — Ts  there  not 
something  specially  delicate  and  appetising  in 
the  above  item  for  those  who  indulge  in 
mutton  ? 


English  Society  are  only  ejEcelled  by  her  high 
characterfor  benevolence  and  philanthropy  in 
sustaining  those  movements  that  she  believes 
will  promote  the  advancement  of  mankind. 
INCREASING  THE  CIRCULATION. 
In  England  the  vegetarian  cause  is  sus- 
tained mainly  by  a  few  wealthy  friends.  Tii 
this  country  we  appeal  to  the  fnasses.  We 
prefer  to  give  each  the  privilege  of  aiding  the 
cause  so  as  to  diviile  up  the  pleasure  and  the 
honor.  Every  one  who  neglects  to  send  $i.oo 
for  four  copies  of  F..  H.  and  G.  is  depriving 
him  or  herself  of  altruistic  satisfaction  of 
aiding  the  best  cause  on  earth,  in  the  most 
effective  and  cheapest  manner.  There  is  no 
profit  in  F.  H.  and  G.  at  this  price  until 
lo.ooo  such  subscriptions  are  received,  If  the 
reader  has  not  yet  availed  himself  of  this 
privetge  plMK  do  mo  now,  wUhout  delay  as 
the  success  of  the  cause  depends  on  yottr 
doing  it.  Every  present  subscriber  most  do 
it  to  give  us  10,000  circulation.  When  that 
number  is  attained  we  shall  strike  for  40.000 
by  making  the  paper /ou''  times  better  than 
it  is  now,  without  increasing  rates.  We  can 
then  command  advertising  at  paying  prices. 


SEA  SICKNESS  AND  VEGETARIANISM. 
Mr.  G.  Robinson,  who  returned  to  England 
after  spending  about  a  year  in  this  country, 
writes  from  Derby:  "  We  had  a  very  rough 
passage  1  there  was  a  deal  of  sea-sickness  but 
I  was  not  sick.  Times  area  little  better  here. 
I  am  doing  a  fair  trade,  selling  fruit  and 
vegetables.  T  am  sttll  an  enthusiastic  vege- 
tarian and  think  it  helps  me  iu  mybusiness." 


LADY  FACET'S  ARTICLE. 
The  portions  of  Lady  Paget's  able  article 
which  we  were  compelled  toomit,  referred  to 
the  cruelties  inflicted  on  animals  in  transit 
and  at  the  slaughter  houses  with  which  alas 
the  people  of  this  country  are  already  familiar, 
but  in  regard  to  which  much  apathy  exists, 
and  her  happy  experience  in  her  present 
dietary  habits  as  a  vegetarian.  Herstanding 
and  influence  as  a  lady  in  the  best  circles  of 
90 


APPEALING  TO  THE  HEART. 
Our  good  friend  Mack  writes  in  the  belief 
that  if  the  hearts  of  flesh  eaters  were  appealed 
to  they  would  be  more  likely  to  give  up  their 
cruel  and  barbarotis  practices.  Although  we 
believe  this  is  true,  in  many  cases,  we  have 
been  astonished  sometimes  at  the  entire  want 
of  sympathy  in  those  who  are  determined  to 
gratify  their  lust  for  flesh.  We  once  remarked 
to  a  pious  Friend,  eminent  as  an  advocate 
of  peace;  holding  a  high  position  in  the 
Peace  movement,  that  we  did  not  believe  he 
would  eat  beef  if  he  had  to  kill  the  ox  himself. 
To  our  surprise  he  replied  that  he  could  kill 
an  ox  without  the  least  compunction,  having 
done  so  many  a  time  on  his  farm  and  could  do 
it  again.  He  evidently  has  not  arrived  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  prophet  Isaiah :  "He  that 
killeth  an  ox  is  as  ifhe  slewa  man." — Isaiah 
66:  3- 

April. 


d  by  Google 


FRMn  MIn  A.  KicholK,  Philadelphia. 

MENU   FOR  EASTER  MONDAY. 


BaoBDU.  Grape  FruU.  OraDgea. 

Egg*  [balled  or  fried.) 

Ctaham  genu.  White  Bread. 

DINNER. 

Cream  Pea  xnip. 

llaahed  Potaloea.  Tonatocs.  Bceta. 

Fried  Parsnlpa. 

Sdo*  Padding.  Ollvea. 

Caramel  Cenal  Coffee. 

white  Bread.  Brown   Bread. 

SUPPER. 

Uparagna  Satad.  Bnttered  Bgga. 

Tea  BlscaK.  Ginger  Bread. 

Fruit  Salad. 

Cnasi  Cake.  I,emon  Ice  Cream. 

'  Ch(»colate. 

RECIPES. 
Cream  Pea  Soup. — Take  1  can  green  peas 
or  <4  pk  shelled  fresb  peas,  ji  teaspoonfnl 
chopped  onion,  i  bay  leaf  and  stew  together. 
When  done,  strain  through  a  cheese  cloth, 
crnsbing  the  peas  but  not  pulping  them 
throagh.  Rub  i  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
two  tablespoons  of  flonr  together  aud  stir  into 
[  pt.  of  warm  milk  and  add  to  the  pea  stock. 
Cook  for  lo  minntes  in  a  doable  boiler. 
Season  to  taste. 


and  three  sweet  oranges ;  peel  and  eye  a  small 
pineapple  and  pull  in  small  bits.  Arrange  the 
fruit  in  layers,  spreading  over  each  layer  this 
dressing :  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well ; 
beat  into  them  i  cup  powdered  sngar  and  <4 
tecspoon  salt;  add  j  nice  3  lemons  &  beat  again. 
Asparagus  Sulad. — Untie  a  bunch  of  aspar- 
agus, scrape  each  stalk  and  cut  ofTthe  white 
end,  Tie  in  bunches  and  stand  upright  in  a 
kettle  of  salted  boiling  water  deep  enough  to 
come  within  an  inch  of  the  tips  i  by  this 
method  the  whole  stalk  is  cooked  more  evenly. 


Boil  30  minutes,  drain  and  set  aside  nntil  cold. 
Arrange  on  a  dish  and  serve  with  French 
dressing.  In  using  canued  Bj^>aragiis  drain 
the  stalks,  hold  under  the  tap  and  let  the 
water  run  through  them,  then  lay  in  clear, 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour.  Drain  and  dry 
on  a  towel  and  serve  as  above. 

Fram  Paul  Diet. 

Combination  Mush. — ^Take  5  pints  soft 
water,  boil  it,  stir  into  it  i  cup  com  meal, 
cook  lomin.  then  stir  in  i  cup  graham,  rye 
meal  or  barley,  as  suits  yon.  Cook  it,  then 
put  in  one  cup  of  rolled  oats  and  stir  well. 
Put  in  oven  and  bake  slowly  for  three  hours, 
or  steam  if  preferred.  Do  not  put  in  any 
salt  while  cooking  but  salt  to  taste  as  you  eat. 
Serve  with  sugar  and  cream,  syrup  or  stewed 
frait.  When  cold  it  can  be  sliced  and  fried  ; 
it  is  so  much  better  than  any  salmon  or  meat 
and  will  furnish  more  strength  to  brain  and 
muscle. 

Baking  Vegetables. — Put  a  little  water  into 
a  pan  and  place  vegetables  in  it  and  tliey  will 
not  dry  up  so  much.  Do  not  put  much  salt 
in  food  when  cooking  as  it  hardens  the  albu- 
men in  the  food. 

CHEESE    FROM     POTATOF^. 

Cheese  of  an  extremely  fine  quality  is  man- 
ufactured from  potatoes  in  Thuringia  and 
part  of  Saxony,  in  the  following  manner : 
> '  After  having  collected  a  quantity  of  potatoes, 
of  a  good  quality,  giving  the  preference  to  the 
large  white  kind,  they  are  boiled  in  a  caldron, 
and  when  cool,  are  reduced  to  a  pulp,  either 
by  means  of  a  grater  or  a  mortar.  To  five 
pounds  of  this  pulp,  which  ought  to  be  as 
equal  as  possible,  is  added  a  pound  of  sour 
milk  and  the  necessary  quantity  of  salt.  The 
whole  is  kneaded  together  and  the  mixture 
covered  up  aud  allowed  to  remain  for  three 

91 


d  by  Google 


pood.  \\oin^  ai)d  (jardei; 


or  four  days,  according  to  the  season.  At  the 
end  of  this  time  it  is  kneaded  again  and  formed 
into  cheeses  which  are  placed  in  little  baskets, 
where  superfluous  nioistnre  is  allowed  to 
escape.  They  are  then  allowed  to  dry  in  the 
shade  and  placed  in  layers  in  large  pots  or 
vessels,  where  they  must  remain  for  fifteen 
days.  The  older  these  cheeses  are,  the  more 
their  quality  improves.  Two  kinds  are  made. 
The  first  which  is  the  most  common,  is 
made  according  to  the  proportions  indicated  ; 
the  second,  with  four  parts  of  potatoes  and 
fourparts  of  cow  or  ewe  milk.  These  cheeses 
have  the  advantage  over  every  other  kind, 
that  they  do  not  engender  worms,  and  keep 
fresh  for  a  great  number  of  years,  provided 
they  are  placed  in  a  dry  situation,  and  in  well 
closed  vessels. 

As  no  rennet  is  used,  the  aboveprocess  of 

making  cheese  is  commended  to  vegetarians. 

A  HAPPY  HOME. 

Our  friends  will  remember  Mrs.  Mary  J. 
Prentice  who  has  sometimes  written  nice 
pieces  that  have  been  published  in  Food. 
Home  a  Garden,  from  her  beautiful  Santa 
Barbara  home,  where  she  has  entertained  so 
many  with  pure  vegetarian  fare  and  always 
made  them  feel  at  home  and  happy  wliile  they 
stayed.  Our  good  friend  Mrs.  Dr.  Paul  has 
told  us  what  a  nice  home  it  is  and  what  a 
pleasant  time  she  had  there.  Well,  she  has 
lately  been  married  to  Professor  Gregorson, 
and  the  name  of  Prentice,  which  had  become 
so  pleasant  to  all  her  friends,  has  been  given 
up  and  she  is  henceforth  to  be  known  as  Mrs. 
Gregcrson.  But  she  writes  us:  "I  am  still 
the  same  warm  friend  to  you  and  the  good 
cause."  Writing  Feb.  aist,  from  Ocean  View, 
Cal.,  she  states:  "Mr.  Gregorson  has 
brought  a  chair  out  for  himself  and  one  for 
me  and  here  we  are  writing  on  the  Sonth-east 
portico  in  the  sunshine.  It  is  quite  warm 
enough,  being  sheltered  from  the  cold  north 
wind  that  is  blowing,  and  the  branches  of  the 
graceful  Eucalyptus  trees  are  swaying  all  one 
way  with  its  force  and  there  are  some  white 
caps  in  the  chaunel. 

"Mr.  Gregorson   is  a  Scotch  Vegetarian  and 


has  been  for  forty-two  years.  He  came  to 
Califomiaforhisformerwife's  health  and  had 
been  a  widower  seven  years  when  he  came 
here.  He  is  now  a  strict  Vegetarian.  We 
were  married  Jan.  4th  1897." 

We  give  these  extracts  from  her  interesting 
letter,  (in  which  she  expresses  her  satis^- 
tion  at  seeing  Food,  Home  *  Garden  once 
more  and  with  a  check  for  some  copies,  ex- 
presses her  desire  for  its  continuance,)  in 
order  to  illustrate  what  a  happy  home  is  estal>- 
lislied  by  those  who  live  on  vegetarian  fare, 
especially  when  both  husband  and  wife  are 
agreed  on  that  subject  and  begin  their  new 
home  on  this  plan. 

We  are  sure  she  will  be  glad  to  offer  advice 
to  all,  and  any  beginners  writing  her  will  have 
the  pleasure  of  receiving  a  nice  letter  in  reply. 
We  are  sure  that  all  our  readers  wish  her 
long  life  .iiid  happiness  in  her  new  relation 
as  Mrs.  Gregorson. 

';in  a  postscript  dated  Feb.  23rd,  Mrs. 
Gregorson  writes  an  account  of  a  walk  taken 
by  Prof.  Gregorson,  being  one  of  a  party  of 
six,  indudiag  Prof  Dodge  on  Washington's 
birthday:  "What  a  grand  climb  they  hacl 
away  up  the  mountain  where  they  could  see 
the  Inez  river  and  Valley  ;  the  San  Raffael 
Mountains ;  could  see  the  islands,  Sauta  Cruz, 
Santa  Rosa,  San  Miguel,  the  Anacapa  islands. 
and  the  Ocean  beyond.  Really  one  of  the 
grand  views  of  the  world.  They  started  at 
7  a.  m.  and  returned  at  6  p.  m.  having  walked 
and  climbed  about  so  miles  on  the  mountain 
sides.  Prof.  Gregorson  brought  home  beau- 
tiful ferns  and  wild  Bowers."  Cannot  our 
readers  see  how  delightful  it  is  to  live  a 
vegetarian  and  take  pleasure  in  ferns  and 
wild  flowers  rather  than  in  cairying  a  gun 
with  which  to  destroy  the  innocent  lives  ol 
deer,  .squirrels  and  birds,  as  our  two  last  pres- 
idents did  when  they  went  out  to  enjoy  the 
country?  We  hope  for  something  better  of 
President  Mc  Kinley,  believing  he  is  a  Chris- 
tian  gentleman  who  takes  no  pleasure  in 
destroying  life.  The  true  way  to  have  a 
happy  home  is  to  so  live  that  all  the  creatures 
around  us  are  made  happier  by  our  presence. 
April, 


d  by  Google 


aj  ^W^^  ^lossdttt  |»ociet3{ 


NOW  AND  WHEN. 

B  the  cb<ersu1j«t  of  our  diOy  ihou^bl 
irbat  we  lavi  to  emi  not  wh«[  in  eugki. 
!  when  we  shall  a  higher  Ihooght  coacelve 


Apple  Blossoms  pleflse  write  to  us. 


WANTED  MORE. 


rather   hare  yoii 


A  PLACE  IN    HEAVEN. 

BehTfiige,  the  pllp-lni,   lifting  up  hli  head. 

Saw  the    Deatb.  Angel   aUadlag  near  111*   bed, 

And  heard  him  aay  In    accent!  calm  and  cold. 

"  The   namei  1  write  wfthln  the  Book   of  Gold 

Are  namea   of  Ihoae    whose  place  Id  heaTCn  la  won. 

To   gain  ihia  place   what     hast  fAoti  ever  done?" 

Behtynge,   the  pllgtlm.  aCruck    upon   hl9  bteast: 

"  Alaa,  full  many  a  law    have    I  Iraoagreised. 

Yfl    at   God'a  fcet,  for  creatutes    He    hath   made 

Both   mute  and   hel[.le!s,  all  my  life  t  laid. 

And  prayed  Kim  dally  that  my  alreagth  mlffht  be 

Their  faithful  aafeguard.  a*  He  guarded  me. 


Thed 


I  plead  ti 


ough  al 


The  angel  raolahed.  When 
Behrynge.  the  pilgrim,  sad: 
Lo.  the  pearl  portala  flew 
A   light  al 


,    for 


voice  aaid.  "  Thy  al 


all  foTf[l\'eu. 
lace  in    Heaven. 


THB  LAUGH  CURE. 
There  is  a  woman  in  Milpitas,  the  victim 
of  several  ciushing  sorrows,  who  has  a  novel 
cure  for  despondency,  indigestion,  insomnia 
and  kindred  ills.  It  is  unpatented.  She 
determined    one  day  to   throw  ofT  the 


which  was  making  life  a  bnrdei 


ind  about      proved 


sunny  and  delightful  abode.  Husband,  child- 
ren, neighbors  and  friends  were  gradnally 
infected  with  mirth  every  day,  and  now  all 
of  tliem  are  healthy,  happy  and  wise. — San 
Francisco  Argonaut. 

The  above  is  a  taking  story  and  is  an  im- 


of  the  proverb  :     "  I^auglt  and 


L^v(;H^«Mll(1lfO%v(lHSw(rH^ 


her  and  establish  a  rule  that  sbeshonld  laugh 
three  times  a  day  whether  occasion  presented 
or  not.     She  trained  herseif  to  laugh  heartily 


at  the  least  provocatii 
vonld  retire  to  her  room 
herself.  Now  she  is  in 
buoyant  spirits,  and  he 
1897 


without  one, 

ind  make  merry  by 

excellent  health  and 

home  has  become  a 


grow  fat".  While  we  believe  it  is  true  that 
laughter  is  a  great  curative  of  many  ills  sup- 
posed and  real,  we  caution  our  young  friends 
to  be  moderate  in  the  use  even  of  laughter. 
Immoderate  latighter  may  induce  hysterical 
fits  of  laughter  which  should  be  avoided  by 
obser\'ing  moderation  in  the  exercise. 

93 


.V  Google 


THE    HAZEL    NUT. 

The  bushes  are  grown  from  seeds,  by  layers, 
by  saclrers,  by  cuttings  and  by  grafting  or 
budding.  Grown  from  suckers  trees  come 
earliest  into  bearing  and  by  some  are  claimed 
lo  make  the  strongest  trees,  but  the  major 
portion  of  hazel  trees  produced  in  nurseries 
are  from  cuttings  8  or  lo  inches  in  length  from 
last  year's  wood.  They  root  as  readily  as 
gooseberries.  A  moist,  not  wet,  sand  supplies 
the  t^st  ground  in  which  to  root  cuttings. 

The  hazel  will  not  thrive  in  stiff  clay, 
while  in  dry,  sandy  soil  it  becomes  stunted 
and  produces  fruit  of  small  size.  Otherwise 
the  bush  is  not  peculiar  as  regards  soil  and 
locality,  it  is  always  more  vigorous  on  rich 
land  than  on  poor  land.  In  KentEngland,  the 
hazel  thrives  best  in  limestone  land,  and 
reaches  a  height  of  12  feet,  and  occasionally 
30  feet.  The  trees  are  set  in  well  drained 
ground,  about  10  feet  apart  each  way.  Root 
pruning  is  frequently  practiced  to  check  the 
too  rapid  growth  of  wood.  In  pruning  care 
is  taken  to  leave  sufQcient  male  catkins  for  an 
ample  supply  of  pollen.  The  fruit  spurs  are 
neiir  the  extremities  of  last  year's  growth  and 
nuts  are  more  abundant  where  air  and  light 
have  ready  access.  In  the  fifth  or  sixth  year 
after  plantings,  trees  should  bear  considerable 
fruit.  Wild  hazel  is  found  throughout  the 
western  parts  of  Washington,  Oregon  and 
British  Columbia  and  we  should  at  once  give 
special  attention  to  the  cultivation  of  the 
improved  varieties  as  the  Cob  and  the  I^m- 
bert.  After  a  few  years  we  can  easily  supply 
our  Pacific  coast  markets  providing  we  pre- 
pare for  planting  the  coming  season. — Report 
of  Department  of  Agriculture. 

AFRICAN  PEANUTS. 

Grown  on  its  native  soil,  the  peanut  is  full 
of  the  oil  which  makes  it  a  valuable  import 
of  France,  where  it  becomes    a  conspicuous 

94 


element  in  the  production  of  olive  oil.— AVrii 
York     Times. 

USE    MINERAL  FERTILIZERS. 

the  facisonville  Citizen  attributes  the  rotting 
of  fruit,  and  insect  pests,  to  the  want  of 
mineral  fertilizers,  ashes  and  vegetable  decay- 
ed matter,  which  is  true,  while  the  use  of 
stimulating  animal  manures  produce  the  rot 
and  insect  pests  in  a  constantly  increasing 
quantity  as  it  produces  a  sickly  growth  so 
favorable  to  insect  development. 

SAVING   GRAPES   FROM  FROST. 

The  plan  is  to  saturate  ordinary  porous 
bricks  with  kerosene  oil,  place  them  in  old 
fruit  cans,  fill  these  cans  with  oil,  set  them 
around  the  grapevines,  thirty  or  forty  feet 
apart.  If  the  thermometer  leads  yon  to  sus- 
pect a  frost,  about  2  A.  M.  take  a  stick  with 
a  rag  saturated  with  oil  wrapped  around  one 
end,  lighted,  and  with  it  one  can  light  the 
bricks  in  the  cans  throughout  the  vineyard 
with  ease  and  expedition.  '  The  bricks  cou- 
tinue  to  burn  all  night. — A*".  K  Tribune. 
PEAS  A  PROFITABLE  CROP. 

As  a  field  crop  peas  will  give  as  great  a 
return  in  profit  as  any  vegetable  or  grain 
grown  in  this  section  of  cduntry,  says  the 
Hon.  T.  C.  Van  Eaton,  of  Eatonville.  Pierce 
Co.,  Washington,  in  the  Tacoma  Morning 
Union:  "Peas  are  indigenious  to  this  sec- 
tion, large  quantities  growing  wild  all  over 
western  Washington.  The  wild  pea  is  an 
excellent  forage  plant.  A  good  variety  of 
field  peas  will  produce  as  many  pounds 
of  peas  to  the  acre  as  can  be  produced  of  either 
oats  or  wheat,  while  the  present  market  price 
ofpeasis  $1.75  per  hundred  weight,  of  wheat 
95  cents  per  hundred  weight,  and  of  oats  80 
cents  per  hundred  weight.  Therefore  we  get 
about  twice  as  much  money  out  of  an  acre  of 
peas  as  either  wheat  or  oats,  and  the  labor 
ofproduction  is  no  greater. " 

April,  1897 


d  by  Google 


ARNOLD  F.    HILLS, 
President  of  the  Vegetarian  Federal  Union. 


d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


c^ 


<^,?Z^-K^ 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


db,  Google 


^Ipood,  Jiom?  apd  (Jardepj 


Vol,,  I,  Ko.  7,  New  Series. 


Whole  Number,  79- 


PERCY  BYSSHE  SHELLEY. 


THE  poet  Shelley,  son  of  Sir  Timothy 
Shelley,  Bart,  was  bora  near  Horsham, 
En^latid  1111792.  At  the  age  of  16  he 
left  school  and  at  18  entered  the  University 
of  Oxford  but  was  expelled  on  account  of  his 
unorthodox  opinions.  This  and  his  marria^ 
with  the  daughter  of  a  retired  iDnkeeper 
caused  an  estrangement  betvreen  himself  and 
his  father  who  however  allowed  his  son  a 
liberal  yearly  income.  In  1813  his  poem, 
Queen  Mab,  was  printed  forprivatecirculation. 
In  his  notes  to  this  puem  his  views  on  Food 
were  expressed  and  from  these  notes  we  ex- 
tract the  most  striking  passages  : 

"  Before  the  time  of  Prometheus,  according 
to  Hesiod,  mankind  were  exempt  from  suffer- 
ing ;  they  enjoyed  a  vigorous  youth ,  and 
death,  when  at  length  it  came,  approached 
like  sleep,  and  gently  closed  the  eyes.  Pro- 
metheus (who  represents  the  human  race) 
eflected  some  great  change  in  the  condition 
of  his  nature,  and  applied  fire  to  culinary 
purposes.  From  this  moment  his  vitals  were 
devoured  by  the  vulture  of  disease.  It  con- 
sumed his  being  in  every  shape  of  its  loath- 
some and  infinite  variety,  inducing  the 
soul-quelling  sinkings  of  premature  and 
violent  death.  All  vice  arose  from  the  ruin 
of  healthful    innocence. 

"Man,  and  the  animals  which  he  has  in- 
fected with  his  society,  or  depraved  by  his 
dominion,  are  alone  diseased.  The  wild  hog, 
the  bison,  and  the  wolf  are  perfectly  exempt 
from  malady,  and  invariably  die,  either  from 
external  violence  or  natural  old  age.  But  the 
domestic  hog,  the  sheep,  the  con,  and  the  dog 
are  subject  to  an  incredible  number  of  distem- 
pers, and,  like  the  corrupters  of  their  nature, 
have    physicians,    who     thrive   upon    their 


' '  The  super-eminence  of  man  is  like  Satan's 
super-eminence  of  pain, — and  the  majority  of 
his  species,  doomed  to  penury,  disease,  and 
crime,  have  reason  to  curse  the  untoward 
event,  that  by  enabling  him  to  communicate 
his  sensations,  raised  him  above  the  level 
of  his  fellow  animals.  But  the  steps  that 
have  been  taken  are  irrevocable. 

"The  whole  of  human  science  is  comprised 
in  one  question  : — How  can  the  advantages 
of  intellect  and  civilization  be  reconciled  with 
th.e  liberty  and  pure  pleasures  of  natural  life? 
IIow  can  we  take  the  benefits  and  reject  the 
evils  of  the  system,  which  is  now  interwoven 
with  our  being?  I  believe  that  abstinence 
from  animal  food  and  spiriluous  liquors  uould, 
in  a  great  measure,  capacitate  us  for  the  solution 
of  this  important  question. 

"  Comparative  anatomy  teaches  us  that  man 
resembles  frugiverous  animals  in  every  thing, 
and  carnivorous  in  nothing  ;  he  has  neither 
claws  wherewith  to  seize  his  prey,  nor  dis- 
tinct and  pointed  teeth  to  tear  the  living  fibre. 
A  mandarin  of  the  first  class,  with  nails  two 
inches  long,  would  probably  find  them,  alone, 
inefficient  to  hold  even  a  hare.  It  is  only 
by  softening  and  disguising  dead  flesh  by 
culinary  preparations,  that  it  is  rendered 
susceptible  of  mastication  or  digestion,  and 
that  the  sight  of  its  bloody  juices  does  not 
excite  intolerable  loathing,  horror  and  dis- 
gust. I^t  the  advocate  of  animal  food  force 
himself  to  a  decisive  experiment  on  its  fitness, 
and,  as  Plutarch  recommends,  tear  a  living 
lamb  with  his  teeth,  and,  plunging  his  head 
into  his  vitals,  slake  his  thirst  with  the  steam- 
ing blood  ;  when  fresh  from  the  deed  of  hor- 
ror, let  him  revert  to  the  irresistible  instincts 
of  nature  that  would  rise  in  judgment  against 
.it,  and  say.  Nature   formed  me  for  such  work 

, '      99 


d  by  Google 


ipood,  )1om^  apd  Qardep  i 


as  tbis.  Then,  and  tlieo  only,  would  he  be 
consistent. 

•'  Young  children  evidently  pivTer  pastry, 
oranges,  apples,  and  other  fruit  to  the  flesh 
<rf  animals,  until,  by  the  gradnal  depravation 
of  the  dif^stive  organs,  the  free  tise  of  veg- 
etables lias,  for  a  tiiire,  produced  serious 
inconvenience.  For  a  time.  Isay,  since  there 
never  was  an  instance  wherein  a  change  from 
apiritnons  liquors  and  animal  food  to  vegeta- 
bles and  pnre  water  has  failed  ultimately  to 
invigorate  the  body  by  rendering  its  juices 
Uand  and  conscntaneoas ;  and  to  restore  to 
the  mind  that  cheerfiilnessand  elasticity  which 
not  one  in  fifty  possesses  on  the  present 
sj'stem.  A  love  of  strong  liquor  is  also  with 
difficulty  taught  to  infents.  Almost  every 
one  remembers  the  wry  faces  which  the  first 
gtass  of  Port  produced.  Unsophisticated 
instinct  is  invariably  unerring;  bnt  to  decide 
on  the  fitness  of  animal  food,  from  the  per- 
verted appetites,  which  its  constrained 
adoption  produces,  is  to  make  the 
criminal  a  judge  in  bis  own  cause :  it 
is  even  worse  ;  it  is  appealing  to  the  infatu- 
ated drunkard  in  a  question  of  the  salubrity 
of  brandy. 

"Except  in  children,  however,  there  remain 
no  traces  of  that  instinct  which  determines, 
in  all  other  animals,  what  aliment  is  natural 
or  otherwise ;  and  so  perfectly  obliterated  are 
tliey  in  the  reasoning  adults  of  onr  species, 
that  it  has  become  necessary  to  urge  consider- 
ation?  drawn  from  comparative  anatomy  to 
prove  that  we  are  naturally  fnigiverous. 

"Crime  is  madness.  Madness  is  disease. 
Whenever  the  cause  of  disease  shall  be  discov- 
ered, the  root  from  which  all  vice  and  misery 
have  so  long  overshadowed  the  globe,  will  be 
bare  to  the  axe.  All  the  exertions  of  man, 
from  that  moment,  may  be  considered  as 
tending  to  the  clear  profit  of  his  species.  No 
sane  mind,  in  a  sane  body,  resolves  upon  a 
crime.  It  is  a  man  of  violent  passions,  blood- 
shot eyes,  and  swollen  veins,  that  alone  can 
grasp  the  knife  of  murder.  The  system  of  a 
simple  diet  is  not  a  reform  of  legislation, 
while  the  furious  passions  and  evil  propensi- 


ties of  the  human  heart,  in  which  it  baa  its 
origin,  are  unasftuaged.  Itstrikes  at  the  root 
of  all  evil,  and  is  an  experiment  which  may 
be  tried  with  success,  not  alone  by  nations, 
but  by  small  societies,  families,  and  even  in- 
dividoals.  In  no  case  has  a  return  to  a 
vegetable  diet  produced  the  slightest  injury  : 
in  most  it  has  been  attended  with  changes 
undeniably  beneficial. 

"There  is  no  disease,  bodily  or  mental, 
which  adoption  of  vegetable  diet  and  pure 
water  has  no  infullibly  mitigated,  wherever 
Ibe  experiment  has  been  fairly  tried.  Debil* 
ity  is  gradually  converted  into  strength, 
disease  into  healthfnlness ;  madness,  in  all 
its  hideous  variety,  from  the  ravings  of  the 
fettered  maniac,  to  the  unacconntaUe  irra- 
tionalities of  ill-temper,  that  make  a  hell  of 
domestic  life,  into  a  calm  and  considerate  even- 
ness of  temper,  that  alone  might  offer  a 
certain  pledge  of  the  futnre  moral  reformation 
of  society. 

"  On  a  natural  system  of  diet,  old  age  would 
be  our  last  and  our  only  malady  ;  the  term  of 
our  existence  would  be  protracted  ;  we  should 
enjoy  life,  and  no  longer  preclude  others  from 
the  enjoyment  of  it  \  all  sensational  delights 
would  be  infinitely  more  exquisite  andperfect ; 
the  very  sense  of  being  would  then  be  a  con- 
tinued pleasure,  such  as  we  now  feel  it  in 
some  few  and  favored  moments  of  onr  youth. 

"  By  all  that  is  sacred  in  our  hopes  for  the 
human  race,  I  conjure  those  who  love  happi- 
ness and  truth,  to  give  a  fair  trial  to  the 
vegetable  system.  Reasoning  is  surely 
superfluous  on  a  subject  whose  merits  an 
experience  of  six  months  would  set  forever 
at   rest." 

Shelley  meeting  with  an  accidental  death  in 
1822,  by  drowning  while  sailing  from  Leghorn, 
deprived  him  of  further  opportunity  to  prove 
the  efficacy  of  his  principles  in  promoting 
health  and  longevity.  But  his  short  life  was 
an  evidence  of  great  mental  activity  of  a  high 
literary  character  as  his  published  works 
abundantly  testify. 

It  must  be  admitted  that  Shelley  was  in 
advance  of  most  of  his  cotempories  on  the 
subject  of  food. 

May, 


d  by  Google 


pood,  ^om^  apd  ()arde9 


My  own  experieace  in  the  past  few  years 
tells  me  there  is  greater  enjoyment  in  life  in 
living  without  meat,  provided  one  selects 
with  good  judgment  from  the  vegetable  king- 
dom.— A,  R.  Pearse,  1430  So.  Hope,  Los 
Angeles,  Cal. 


JOY  A  HUNDRED  FOLD. 
Food,  Home  *  Gardbn  has  been  brought 
to  my  notice  and  I  feel  quite  overjoyed  that 
such  a  work  is  begun  in  this  country.  I  had 
by  myself  arrived  at  the  same  conclusions, 
and  I  know  the  change  can  be  made  from  a 
meat  to  a  atrrect  diet  witboat  any  feeling  of 
something  lacking.  To  most  persons  here 
vegetarian  diet  means  starvation  and  all  for 
want  of  a  mill  like  the  one  you  advertise, 
so  that  we  need  not  depend  on  the  grocer  who 
adulterates  his  foods.  Yours  for  a  hundred 
fold  in  this  world. — N.  E.  Arnold,  Superinten- 
dent Purity  Department  of  the  Florida  W.  C. 
T,  U.,  Daytonia,  Fla. 


THE    MONEY    ARGUMENT. 
By  Rev.  Wm.  Penn  Alcott. 

The  following  table  is  compiled  from  two 
of  the  best  authorities  upon  economic  chem- 
istry, being  mainly  taken  from  "Farmer's 
Bulletin,  No.  23"  published  by  the  U.  S.  Dep. 
of  Agriculture.  This  pamphlet  ts  by  Prof. 
W.  O.  Atwater  of  Wesleyan  University  and 
may  be  obtained  free  by  anyone,  on  applica- 
tion as  above.  Certain  additions  marked  C. 
have  been  based  on  the  analyses  of  the  emi- 
nent English  chemist,  A.  H.  Church,  whose 
valuable  volume  "Food"  is  on  sale  at  the 
office  of   this  periodical. 

Neither  of  the  investigators  from  whom  we 
have  drawn  our  figures  are  vegetarians,  hence 
their  determinations  cannot  be  considered  to 
be  warped  in  our  favor. 

Samples  of  the  <rAfii^.c/gradeiiof  the  various 
articles  have  been  uniformly  selected  because, 
eoutrary  to  what  might  be  expected.  Prof. 
Atnater's  tables  clearly  show  that  these  give 
the  most  true  food  for  the  money.  The  arti- 
cles are  arranged  according  to  amount  of 
nutriment  beginning  with  the    highest.     Col- 

■897 


umn3  will  enable  anyone  to  adjust  the  table 
to  a  different  tariff  from  Prof.  Atwater's,  or 
arrange  these  foods  irrespective  of  cost. 

It  will  be  observed  that  percentage  of  ali- 
ment changes  the  order  of  the  table.  Vege- 
table foods,  as  a  class,  still  hold  the  lead.  But 
fat  pork  now  comes  second  and  potatoes, 
apples  and  cabbage  drop  to  hnmble  places 
with  milk,  oysters  and  cabbage.  Fat  pork  is 
a  cheap  food  as  to  fuel  nutriment,  but  contains 
little  flesh-forming  material  and  ia  peculiarly 
apt  to  cause  diseases  of  the  liver  and  stomach 
and  is,  perhaps,  the  most  objectionable  flesh 
aliment. 

Grains,  fraits  and  nuts  are  the  most  natural 
and  healthful  of  foods,  usually  combining 
(tdvantageous  bulk  with  a  sufficient  amount 
of  all  kinds  of  nutrients, — fuel,  fle.sh  andbone 
forming  elements. 


N 

DTRIMENT 

FOR     25 

CRNT3. 

Foodmaler 

ala       U>a.or 

PercMit 

Wheat  Boor 

!!#> 

■  0.87 

87.S 

Cora  meal 

S5- 

Oat  meal 

B.« 

7-5' 

5-70 

Wheat  biead 

fl-33 

S.S6 

67-7 

Bcina 

S- 

87-4 

Kice 

4.17 

3.64 

87.S 

Apple.  (C) 

n-jfi 

J.16 

Port,  fat,  lall 

a.cs 

87-9 

16.S7 

a.05 

Cabbage  (C.) 

fl. 

I.9J 

&i 

Beef.  Deck 

6.« 

1.8s 

38- 

Muttot.,  \ft 

3.13 

.96 

38.1 

Beer.alrloin 

'■» 

40. 

CodSih,  dried 

a.  4.17 

M 

"7^H 

Bwa. 

2.84 

.63 

16.1 

Fowl,  (C.) 

.36 

S7.» 

Orsleii. 

>.« 

•** 

ia.9 

I  shall  work  now  as  in  the  past  and  send 
subscribers  as  fast  as  I  get  them. — Mrs.  Dr. 
La  Pierre,  Mattawan,  Mich. — It  will  take 
all  our  old  friends  and  many  new  ones  to 
work  to  make  F.,  H.  ft  G-  self-supportin°r- 


Lord's  Farm  where  I  am  boarding  has 
adopted  the  use  of  cocoanut  butter  through 
my  suggestion.— J  no.  C.  Roe,  Woodcliff, 
N.  J. — Mr.  Roe  at  his  own  expense,  printed 
Lady  Paget's  article  on  Vegetarianism  and 
circulated  it  among  his  friends. 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  Hom^  3ffd  ^ariz^ 


MEMORIAL  TO  THE  CITIZENS  OF  U.  S. 

IT  is  related  of  the  Greek  philosopher, 
Demonax,  of  the  isle  of  Cyprus,  who  at 
t)ie  beginning  of  the  second  centuiy  resided 
at  Athens,  respected  for  his  simple  life,  and 
full  of  kindness  to  all,  that  when  a  show 
of  gladiators  was  about  to  be  exhibited,  he 
presented  himself  before  the  assembled  people 
and  told  them  that  they  should  pass  no  such 
decree  until  they  had  first  removed  away  the 
aitar  of  pity.  Only  in  the  preceding  genera- 
tion, the  Apostle  Paul,  standing  in  the  midst 
of  Mars'  Hill,  had  declared  nnto  those  Athe- 
nians who  was  the  "Unknown  God"  that 
they  ignorautly  worshipped,  rebuked  them 
for  their  idolatry  and  snperstition,  and  rea- 
soned with  them  of  righteousness,  temperance 
and  judgment  to  come. 

To-day,  eighteen  centuries  further  along  in 
the  world's  course,  the  demoniacs  of  the  prize 
ring  are  let  loose  upon  society,  a  multitude 
of  people  bow  down  in  all  their  idolatry  of 
animalism,  and  the  Lord  Christ,  who  is  the 
"Altar  of  Pity",  Head  over  all  things,  is 
certainty  far  removed  from  their  hearts.  Vet 
may  we  devoutly  thank  God  that  it  was  by  no 
decree  of  the  Nation  that  within  the  borders  of 
the  smallest  populated  of  its  States,  there 
was  given  opportunity  to  inglorionsly  prepare 
and  to  enact  the  recent  brutish  spectacle  of 
the  prize  ring.  One  after  another  bad  the 
States  (with  a  single  exception  perhaps  of 
the  one  unnamed)  by  legislative  enactment 
brought  pugilism  under  the  ban,  while  Con> 
gress  itself  had  fortiidden  prize-Sghting  in  all 
the  national  domain. 

The  good  name  of  the  nation  has  been  out- 
raged, not  so  mnch  by  the  disgraceful  event  of 
H  specially  brutal  encounter  between  two 
human  beings,  as  by  the  very  reprehensible 
course  of  a  large  number  of  daily  papers  in 
exploiting  from  first  to  last  the  prize-fighters 
and  the  fight.  "We  can  recall  no  one  thing 
in  the  history  of  thecouutry"  says  a  promi- 
nent, influential  daily,  "that  has  done  so 
much  to  demoralize  the  press  and  the  pub- 
lic as  the  continuous  babbling  between 
prize-fighters  and    their  associates    that  has 


found  publicity  in  the  newspapers  during  the 
last  five  years."  "There  is  every  reason  to 
expect",  continues  the  same  editor,  "a  whole- 
some reaction  of  public  sentiment,  not  only 
against  the  reckless  and  babbling  bruisers  of 
the  ring,  but  against  the  public  journals 
which  have  done  so  much  to  teach  brutality 
and  lawlessness  as  attributes  of  modeni 
manhood." 

Unfortunately,  some  millions'  of  onr  people, 
especially  those  young  in  years,  who  will 
have  been  so  seriously  damaged,  morally, 
through  the  papers  which  gave  them  the 
babbling  of  the  prize-fighters  and  their  sym- 
pathetic associates,  will  know  little  of  the 
wholesome  reaction  of  public  sentiment  that 
is  expected  to  set  in.  They  seek  only  the 
classof  papers  which  may  be  depended  on  to 
cater  to  their  unhealthily  warped  or  depraved 
instincts.  Before  the  Congress  that  ended 
with  the  late  presidential  administration 
adjourned,  there  was  an  opportunity  present* 
ed  to  uphold  the  nation's  good  name,  by  the 
prompt  passage  of  the  bill  entitled  "A  bill 
to  prohibit  the  transmission  by  mail  or  inter- 
state commerce  of  any  picture  or  description 
of  any  prize-fight  or  its  accessories."  The 
Commerce  Committee  of  the  house  of  Repre- 
sentatives (Aldrich,  chairman),  in  its  favorable 
Report  of  the  bill,  properly  said  that  it  "sim- 
ply protects  the  more  advanced  States  which 
have  forbidden  pugilism  as  brutal  and  brutal- 
izing, against  having  prize-fights  brought 
into  their  borders  in  pictures  and  descriptions 
which  are  only  a  little  less  harmful  than  the 
degrading  sport  which  they  describe."  May 
the  simple  enactment  of  this  (re- introduced) 
bill,  mark  as  well  the  healthy  reaction,  as  an 
honest  purpose  to  protect  the  honor  of  the 
conntry  at  a  point  where  it  has  been  so 
grievously  assailed  to  its  hurt  I 

Please  1  All  citizens  of  the  United  States 
who  are  interested  in  the  welfare  of  the  nation 
write  yourSenators  and  Congressmen  urging 
the  passage  of  this  bill  at  this  present  session 
of  Congress !  Signed: 

STEPHRN  J.  FIELD, 
Juttice  of  the  Supreme  Court  U.  S.  WuhiDglon.D.  C. 

And  forty  other  prominent  citizens. 

May, 


d  by  Google 


llpood.  flom?  apd  (iarde9 


A  SEVENTH-DAY  ADVENTIST'S  VIEW. 
There  are,  no  doubt,  many  who  helieve 
a  vegetartan  diet  to  be  the  best,  yet  they  do 
not  adhere  strictly  to  it.  So  it  is  with  many 
S,  D.  A's.  they  kuow  certain  articles  of  diet 
should  be  discarded;  but  they  have  not 
stepped  out  into  the  tight  yet. 

We,  as  a  people,  reject  not  only  flesh  meats 
as  a.  diet,  but  also  the  products  of  the  ani- 
mals viz :  Cheese,  batter  and  eggs,  and  many 
tilings  in  the  vegetable  kingdom  which  we 
know  hygiene  teaches  is  hartfnlto  the  tinman 
system  and  that  it  would  not  be  in  accordance 
with  the  word  of  God  to  use  them  as  a  diet. 

We  can  also  go  into  the  mineral  kingdom  and 
there  find  something  of  common  use,  salt  and 
soda  which  should  be  used  quite  sparingly  as 
they  are  only  irritants. 

Most  all  will  readily  see  that  all  fermented 
and  alcoholic  liquors  and  narcotics,  including 
tobacco,  should  not  be  used.  The  more 
common  things  like  tea,  cofiiEe,  peppers  and 
spices,  and  even  the  othef  animal  product, 
milk,  should  soon  fall  into  disuse;  for  so 
many  of  the  cattle  now  are  found  to  have  sym- 
tonis  of  the  dreaded  disease — ^tuberculosis. 

We  profess  to  be  Adventists,  those  who  are 
looking  for  the  Lord  to  come  and  receive  ns 
nnto  himself  preparatory  to  setting  up  his 
kingdom,  and  if  we  would  be  perfect  and  obey 
him,  so  that  we  shall  be  ready  to  meet  Him, 
wc  must  put  aside  tMrything  that  would  defile 
or  destroy  our  physical  being  in  the  least. 
God  says  to  his  people  :  "j'e  are  the  temple 
of  the  living  God,"  and  beseeches  them ; 
"Present  yonr bodies  a  living  sacrifice,  holy, 
acceptable  nnto  God."  So  we  must  follow 
ont  the  injunction  given  us :  "Whether  there- 
fore ye  eat,  or  drink,  or  whatsoever  ye  do,  do 
alltothe  glory  of  God." 

And  should  not  we  return  to  the  original 
bill  of  fare  which  the  Creator  gave  ns  in  the 
beginning  i  which  we  find  recorded  in  Gen- 
esis 1  :  29  ?  And  only  because  of  the  hardness 
ofthe  hearts  of  the  people,  and  his  mercy 
toward  them,  did  he  permit  them  to  have 
other  things  for  food ;  just  as  be  permitted 
them  to  be  divorced  from  their  companions  in 

1897 


marriage.    (Matt.    19 ;  8,  last  clause.) — S.  H. 
Camahan,   College  Place,  Wash. 


WITHSTANDING  HEAT  &  COLD. 
I  have  followed  the  Vegetarian  system 
mostly  and  with  great  advantage.  Economy 
is  the  least  of  its  benefits  although  this  is 
important.  Though  more  than  60  years  old. 
I  have  been  able  to  withstand  the  beat  of 
summer  and  the  cold  of  winter,  the  grip  aud 
other  evils.  Occasionally  in  coldest  days  I 
have  imagined  that  a  little  bacon  would  be  a 
desirable  addition  to  my  diet  bat  one  day's 
experiment  would  suffice  and  I  would  have 
no  further  hankering  for  the  flesh  pots. — 
P.  J.  Reed,   Kansas  City,  Mo. 


SANTA    CATAUNA    ISLAND. 

I  have  not  eaten  any  meat  for  about  four 
or  five  years.  I  have  better  health  now  than 
I  have  ever  had  in  my  life.  Before  I  quit 
eating  meat  I  spent  over  one  hundred  dol- 
lars  for  medicine  in  four  or  five  years. 
Since,  I  hare  not  spent  one  dollar.  Before 
I  used  to  drink  and  smoke  t  I  do  neither 
now.  Very  seldom  use  co&ee  or  tea,  but 
use  lemonade,  instead  with   my  meals. 

I  eat  oatmeal  for  breakfast  with  milk.  I 
eat  Boston  brown  and  Graham  bread,  beans 
and  other  vegetables  for  the  other  two 
meals. 

Two  years  ago  I  walked  from  Los  An- 
geles to  Santa  Barbara,  one  hundred  aud 
twenty  miles :  went  through  to  see  the  coun- 
try. One  day  I  only  bad  one  meal  besides 
eating  apples.  I  have  been  camping  on  the 
Island  here  all  winter  in  a  tent.  I  have 
been  to  every  place  on  the  Island.  I  walk 
about  two  hundred  miles  a  month  for  ex- 
ercise. The  sth  of  February  I  walked  to  the 
other  end  of  the  Island  and  back  in  fifteen 
hours  and  a  half  which  is  called  by  trail 
fifty  miles  over  tlie  moanlains.  The  high- 
est point  is  two  thousand  feet.  I  just  had 
a  lunch  of  brown  bread  and  water.  I 
haven't  hunted  or  fished  any  for  ten  or 
twelve  years.  Never  take  life  if  I  can  help 
it.— -J.  H.  Freeman,  Santa  Cattilina  Island, 
Avaton,  Ca1.,     March  33nd,     1897. 

103 


d  by  Google 


ppood.  |iom^  a^d  (jarde? 


pood,  jiom^  apd  (Jardeij 


PHILADELPHIA, 

MAY,      1897. 

mertca,    Fnbl  libera. 

81. 

REV.   HENRY    S.  CLDBB,    Editor. 

rear. 

AdTerttaementB     per      lioc, 
twelve  inaertloi 

one   lEterlioB,   10 
II  J  doUir. 

emu. 

Dr.   M.  L.   Holbrook  lectured  before  the  N. 
Y.  V.  S.  March  23rd  on  ■'  A  Balanced  Diet." 


James  Levy,  BiTtningham,  Ala.,  writes: 
"I  have  been  a  Vegetarian  five  yeurs  aiid 
enjoy  good  health    ' 

We  congratulate  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Albert  H. 
Snyder  of  Chici^o,  on  the  advent  of  a  son, 
March    lotb,  1897. 


We  leam  that  the  luannfacture  of  Cocoanut 
butter  is  to  be  lemoved  from  Chicago  to  Phil- 
adelphia and  expect  to  be  in  operation  in  May. 


I  feel  raucli  interest  in  F.,  H.  &  G.  and 
hope  for  the  steady  growth  of  its  ideas. — Mrs. 
R.  M.  Webster,  139 De  Lacy  St.,  Passadena, 
Cal. — Such  expressions  coming  from  friends 
remote  and  near  encourage  us  to  believe  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  being 
appreciated  and  will  eventually  be  established 
on  a  self-supporting  basis. 


Our  farmers  are  asking  for  a  premium  on 
exported  wheat  to  enable  them  to  compete  in 
the  foreign  wheat  market.  We  would  rather 
give  a  premium  on  home  made  sugar  so  as  to 
turn  the  attention  of  fanners  from  wheat 
culture  (which  is  over  done,)  to  beet  culture 
which  is  almost  neglected,  and  which  does  not 
impoverish  the  soil  as  does  the  wheat  crop. 

Tlie  monthly  meetings  of  the  Phila.  V.  S'y 
are  of  increasing  interest  and  attendance. 
Prof.  James  S.  Doolittle  delivered  an  excel- 
lent lecture  on  April  19th  with  cranial 
delineations.  He  showed  the  benefirial 
effects  of  a  well  developed  alimentativeness. 
An  interesting  discussion  followed.  Mr.  T. 
James  of  Chicago,  and    Miss  Tabor  of  Battle 


Creek,  Sarah  Hall,  and  Drs.  Hanna  ft  Har- 
vey J.  Lovell  took  part.  The  next  meeting 
will  be  held  May  17th. 


The  C.  A.  ft  P.  Society  in  addition  to  the 
action  taken  as  reported  in  the  Public  Ledger, 
requested  Josiah  L.  Leeds  the  historian  to 
draw  up  a  memorial  to  be  signed  by  lead- 
ing citizens  in  regard  to  prize  fighting  and 
said  memorial  is  published  in  our  preseut 
issue  omitting  forty  names  of  Bishops,  Cler- 
gy, Editors,  etc.  We  regard  the  brutality 
of  prize  fighting,  modem  foot  ball,  vivisection 
and  general  delight  in  public  executions, 
in  killing  for  sport,  for  the  fiin  of  seeing 
creatures  wreathing  in  the  agony  of  death, 
and  in  preparing  for  war,  as  the  natural  re- 
sult of  feeding  on  the  flesh  and  blood  of 
other  creatures.  All  such  blood  shedding 
would  soon  become  as  abhorrent  in 
America  as  it  is  in  India  were  flesh-eating 
discontinued. 


BIBLE    CORRESPONDENCE  SCHOOL. 

Clifford  G.  Howell,  31  Lincoln  St.,  Battle 
Creek,  Mich.,  has  opened  a  school  for  the 
study  of  the  Bible  by  correspondence.  Write 
him  for  information. 


A  NEW  VEGETARIAN  DEPOT. 
Madame  Alexandrine  Vegele  lias  opened  a 
Depot  for  Vegetarian  Literature  and  Supplies, 
at  96  Crawford  St.,  Baker  St.,  London,  W. 
This  lady  is  the  founder  of  the  Woman's 
Vegetarian  Union  and  is  putting  unbounded 
energy  into  the  good  work.  We  trust  this 
new  enterprise  will  be  well  sustained. 


THE   DEATH     OF  MISS    FOSKETTE. 

The  brilliant  young  lawyer  and  teacher 
succumbed  to  an  effort  to  follow  two  profes- 
sions at  one  time.  She  was  always  a  very 
delicate  young  lady,  whose  mental  force  and 
ambition  were  too  much  for  her 
phsrsical  power  of  endurance.  Her 
early  death  should  be  a  warning  to  all  en- 
gaged in  brain  labor.  She  was  greatly 
beloved  by  all  who  knew  her  and  Chicago 
is  sorrowing  on  account  of  her  departure. 
May, 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  |lom^  a^d  (fivdz^ 


INTEREST  IN  THE  FIGHT  DEPLORED. 

At  a  tneeting  of  the  Christian  Arbitration 
and  Peace  Society  yesterday,  the  following 
resolution  was,  on  motion  of  Rev,  Henry  S. 
Clnbb,  unanimously  adopted  : 

"  That  this  Society  hereby  records  its  sor- 
row at  the  very  general  interest  taken 
throughont  the  country  in  the  personal 
combat  between  two  noted  prize  fighters  in 
one  of  our  Western  States,  and  its  earnest 
protest  against  this  exhibition  of  bmtality 
as  an  indication  of  a  low  condition  of  public 
morals  and  in  direct  opposition  to  the  spirit 
of  Christianity  which  is  the  professed  stand- 
ard of  our  civilization.  It  also  expresses 
its  high  appreciation  of  the  action  of  Con- 
gress and  those  State  Legislatures  that  re- 
fused to  permit  this  exhibition  to  take  place 
within  their  respective  jurisdictions." — Public 
Ledger, 


THE    DEATH  OF  PRESIDENT  SORLEY. 

The  publicity  given  to  the  death  of  the  Pres- 
ident of  the  Chicago  V.  S.  accompanied  by  the 
statement  of  the  son  that  it  occurred  in  conse- 
quence of  abstaining  from  flesh  called  forth 
this  statement  in  the  Chicago  Vegetarian  .- 

"  Mr.Sorley  was  a  rugged  Scotchman .  Though 
nearly  seventy  years  of  age,  he  did  not  look 
to  be  more  than  fifty.  He  was  unusually  ac- 
tive for  one  of  his  years. 

"Genial  and  pleasant  in  his  manners,  and  of 
a  loving  disposition,  he  made  friends  of  every- 
body. One  of  the  mlea  of  his  life  was  never  to 
speak  evil  of  any  one.  He  told  one  of  his 
friends  shortly  before  his  death,  that  he  had  a 
dissolute  son  whose  waywardness  had  caused 
him  much  trouble  of  mind.  The  son,  be  said, 
was  addicted  to  the  drink  habit,  was  a  spend- 
thrift, and  did  not  support  his  family.  He 
supplied  him  with  funds  continually,  and  did 
all  he  could  to  reform  his  poor  little  boy,  as 
he  affectionately  called  him. 

"  Mr.  Sorley  was  nearly  seventy  years  old  : 
he  had  been  a  vegetarian  but  a  very  short  lime,  _ 
and  it  is  patent  that  the  cause  of  the  cancer  lay 
back  of  the  time  that  he  espoused  the  vegeta- 
rian cause. 

"Mr.  Sorley's  son,  who  isengaged  in  the  em- 


ploy of  the  largest  slaughtering  firm  i 
world,  took  occasion  to  remark  Xast  Tribune 
reporter  that  it  was  the  opinion  of  certain  per- 
sons, whom  he  does  not  take  the  pains  to 
name,  that  his  father's  fatal  illness  was  due 
to  vegetarianism.  The  attending  physicians 
scout  the  idea,  and  none  will  affirm  it.  Mr. 
Sorley's  vegetarianism  has  always  been  a 
thorn  in  his  son's  unenviable  occupation, 
truly,  but  the  latter  showed  very  poor  taste, 
to  say  the  least,  in  making  the  death  of  his 
aged  father  the  occasion  to  advertise  his  em- 
ployer's meat  business. 

"Young  Sorley  is  quoted  as  having  said 
that  the  members  of  the  Vegetarian  Society 
called  on  his  father  continually  during  his 
illness,  and  that  he  finally  put  a  stop  to  it  as 
he  had  no  faith  in  the  vegetable  drugs  which 
they  brought.  If  the  son  was  not  misquoted 
he  lied.  Not  a  single  member  of  the  society 
was  permitted  to  see  his  father  during  his 
illness.  The  son  informed  a  member  of  the 
society  over  the  telephone,  that  his  father  had 
been  removed  to  his,  the  son's,  home  and  that 
he  would  not  give  his  address,  as  he  did  not 
wish  any  one  to  call.  He  agreed  to  keep  the 
society  advised  as  to   his  parent's  condition. 

"The  remains  were  taken  from  the  city 
without  an  opportunity  being  given  the 
friends  of  the  deceased,  (and  his  best  friends 
were  in  the  Vegetarian  Society)  to  pay  their 
respects  to  their  honored  co-worker.  The 
vegetarians  do  not  believe  that  the  sick  man 
was  unable  to  be  seen,  asit  was  known  that 
he  was  conscious  aluiost  to  the  last." 

We  know  a  lady  in  Chicago  who  attributes 
her  cure  of  cancer  to  abstaining  from  flesh — 
a  much  more  likely  occurrence  than  that 
death  by  cancer  was  caused  by  such  abstinence. 
The  name  and  address  of  this  lady  can  be  had 
if  desired.  Her  physician  had  decided  on  an 
operation. 

A  SWEET  BREATH. 
Atthistimeofthe  year  we  should  draw  the 
peoples  attention  to  the  fact  that  Vegetari- 
ans although  consuming  more  fruit  than  flesh- 
eaters  escape  almost  entirely  from  the  bowel 
troubles  that  are  such  a  scourge  to  the  flesh- 
'05 


d  by  Google 


Ipood.  |1om^  apd  (jardep 


eaters  who  are  afraid  to  eat  fruit  and  are 
deluded  with  the  idea  that  fmit  causes  the 
difficulty  whereas  it  ia  the  flesh  that  so  stimu- 
lates ihe  intestiual  canal  that  it  is  not  in  a  flt 
state  to  deal  with  the  less  exciting  diet  of 
fruit.  I  can  generally  tell  a  meat  eater  if  I  get 
near  enough  to  smell  his  breath.  I  never 
knew  a  person  to  leave  off  eating  fiesh  whose 
breath  did  not  improve  in  this  respect. — C. 
W.  Persons.  Jamestown,  N.  Y.— The  sweet 
breath  of  the  cow  and  other  graminivora  com- 
pares very  favorably  with  that  of  the  caniiv- 
ora,  which  is  exceedingly  offensive. 


THE     DENSMORE    DECLINE. 

Mr.  A.  H.  Potts,  Editor  of  the  Chester 
County  limts  writes:  "  More  than  ten  years 
ago  I  came  in  contact  with  the  Vegetarian 
theory  of  diet  and  at  once  adopted  it  as  the 
best  I  had  studied  and  have  been  greatly  ben- 
efitted by  it.  Recently  I  have  fortunately 
came  in  contact  with  the  writings  of  Emmet 
Densmore,  M.  D.,  who  I  consider  clearly 
proves  and  plainly  points  out  an  advanced 
Vegetarianism  altho'  we  may  not  be  able  to 
call  it  that.  His  experiences  in  vegetarianism 
as  I  have  practised  it,  are  very  much  my  oivn 
and  hence  I  can  fully  comprehend  all  he  sa3's. 
Nor  do  I  think  Vegetarians  should  condemn 
him  without  trial.  My  condemnation  of 
meat  has  been  mainly  from  a  moral  stand- 
point and  as  the  advanced  diet  of  Dr.  Dens- 
more does  not  include  meat  I  can  receive  it. 
The  only  use  he  allows  of  meat  is  as  a 
medicine,  which  is  certainly  fair.  Theadop- 
tion  of  his  diet  will,  I  think,  do  much  Ibr  the 
advancement  of  the  moral  principle  on  which 
Vegetarianism  is  founded  and  we  hope  to  see 
something  about  it  in  thecolumns  ofFoOD, 
HouE  &  Garden." 

Dr.  Densmore  has  done  good  service  to 
humanity  by  calling  attention  to  the  im- 
mense value  of  nut  food.  His  antagonism  to 
Vegetarianism  and  his  attempt  to  throw 
ridicule  upon  the  Vegetarian  movement ;  his 
writing  the  "Rise  and  Fall  of  Vegetarianism" 
and  his  association  with  the  patent  medicine 
business  no  doubt  contributed  to  the  down- 

106 


&11  of  his  publication,  Natural  Food. 

In  Emmet  Densmore's  tract  in  regard  to 
the  discontinuance  of  bis  publication,  Mi/«nt/ 
Fooit,  the  Doctor  take.t  this  position :  "  When 
the  ideal  life  is  developed  on  earth  there  will 
be  no  need  of  overstrain  and  overwork,  and 
when  that  time  comes  there  will  be  no  need 
for  meat  or  fish  or  milk,  or  animal  products. 
In  the  present  condition  of  mankind  most 
persons,  so  we  believe,  will  achieve  belter 
health  and  vigor  by  using  a  small  portion  of 
meat  or  fish  with  their  one  meal  a  day  than 
they  can  upon  a  purely  vegetarian  diet ;  even 
the  substitution  of  milk,  cheese,  batter  and 
eggs  will  not  answer  the  same  purpose." 
This  does  not  seem  like  regarding  flesh  as 
medicine,  unless  medicine  is  to  be  taken  with 
food  at  each  principal  meal.  Our  friend 
Potts  is  evidently  misinformed  on  this  subject. 

The  feet  is  Dr.  Densmore  is  not  disabused 
of  the  vulgar  error  that  flesh,  although  made 
of  vegetable  food,  contains  something  more 
important  to  health  than  the  vegetables  of 
which  it  Is  built.  It  would  be  interesting  to 
know  what  it  is  :  whether  it  is  the  nric  acid 
or  the  ptomaines,  both  of  which  are  poisons, 
which  the  doctor  regards  as  so  necessary  to 
health?  Itistheold  "moderation  doctrine" 
applied  to  flesh,  that  has  continued  the  mann- 
facture  of  drunkards  in  its  application  to 
liquors. 

The  fact  is  tile  overstrain  and  overwork  is 
mainly  caused  by  the  stimulating  nature  of 
the  food  and  drink,  and  the  costly  method 
of  living  involved  therein  ;  and  we  might  just 
as  well  prescribe  that  a  man  shall  never  go 
into  the  water  until  he  can  swim  as  to  pre- 
scribea  meat  diet  until  the  "ideal  life"  is 
developed.  What  kind  of  ideal  life  can  be 
developed  on  slaughtered  beasts,  birds  and 
fishes?  The  very  first  step  towards  an  ideal 
life  is  to  abandon  the  gross  and  selfish  habit 
of  killing  animals  and  eating  their  remains. 
Dr.  Densmore  has  yet  to  learn  the  A.  B.  C. 
of  Vegetarian  philosophy  as  taught  by  Zoro- 
aster, Pythagoras,  Plutarch,  Swedenborg, 
Wesley,  Newton  and  other  examples  of  the 
ideal  life. 

May, 


d  by  Google 


COCOANUT  BUTTER  PIE  CRUST. 
Mis.  Dr.  La  Pierre  writes:  "I  have  used 
Cocoanut  Batter  a  year  and  cannot  say  too 
mnch  in  its  praise.  I  wish  you  could  get  a 
recipe  for  making  pie  crust  of  it ;  one  that  is 
very  definite.  Mine  is  stiff  and  hard,  though 
I  make  it  juat  as  I  do  of  cow -butter,  which  is 
very  nice." — Will  some  friend  kindly  furnish 
sudi  recipe? 

MENU  FOR  A    DAY  IN  MAY. 

BREAKFAST. 


Red  RidlahM. 


Brown  Bread. 

MUk.  Sprlus  water. 

Table   Decorallooa :    Trailing  arbotiia. 

DIKNBR. 

New  Potatocn  a  la  Glaae.  Cteamed  Aiparaip"- 

SprlBK  Beeta. 

Sttawbeny  SbottCake.  Brown  Bread. 

Iced  Cocoa, 

Table  dccoratiotK :     Bepatlcaa. 

SC7PPHK. 

Spinach  Frltten.  ToMt  Poacbed  Bkki. 

Slewed   Tomatoet. 

Hnffisa.  Baked  Rbubarb. 

LemODide. 

Table  Decoratlaoa  :    Do|-tooth  vlDleta. 

RECIPES. 

Potatoes  a  la  Glase.— take  the  desired 
amount  of  potatoes ;  pare  and  parboil  in 
salted  water.  When  nearly  soft  take  off  the 
Sie  and  dip  in  beaten  egg,  place  in  pan  with 
melted  butter  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Spinach  Fritters. — Boil  the  spinach  till  it  is 
qnite  tender;  drain,  pare  and  mince  it  fine. 
To  one  pint,  add  half  a  pint  of  grated  stale 
bread,  some  nutmeg,  two  eggs  and  a  teacup 
of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  fry. 


ham,  rye  and  com  meal,  i  teaspoon  salt,   i}i 
teaspoon  soda,    3  cnps  sweet  milk,  2  cups  New 


Orleans  molasses.    Stir  well  and  steam  in  a 
vessel  with  a  lid  on  4  hours. 

Fmm  Uta.  Dr.  La  Pierre,  Uattawan,  Mich. 

Michigan  Potato  Pie.— Melt  i  teaspoon  Co- 
coanut butter  in  a  3  qt.  pudding  pan.  Over 
this  put  a  layer  of  cold,  boiled  and  chopped 
potatoes,  a  thin  layerof  breadcrumbs,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt  Repeat  this  until  pan  is 
scant  ^  full,  pour  over  this  yi  cup  of  sweet 
cream,  (or  "4  cup  milk  with  i  teaspoon  melted 
butter).  Cover  with  a  paste  made  of  a  citp 
sweet  cream,  a  little  salt,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiffbatier, 
bake  and  serve  with  a  brown  gravy. 

By  Hary  J.  Saflbrd  In  l/idiri'   J/omi  Joumal. 

Strawberry  Shortcake. — i  quart  of  flour,  1 
cup  of  butter,  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
a  teaspoon  of  salt,  tlie  white  of  i  egg.  Rub 
the  butter  into  the  flour,  then  add  the  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to 
a  stiff  froth  and  add  with  cold  milk  sufficient 
to  make  a  dough  stiff  enongh  to  rail  out. 
Make  cakes  about  %  inch  thick,  bake  in  pie- 
tins  in  quick  oven.  When  done,  cnt  around 
the  edges  and  split  them ;  place  a  thick  layer 
of  well-sugared  strawberries  between,  sift 
powdered  sugar  over  the  top  and  serve  with 
cream. 

PEANUTS   FOR  CONSUMPTIVES. 

The  Journal  of  Hygiene  states  that  Dr. 
Brewer  has  a  new  idea  concerning  food  for 
consumptives.  His  treatment  consists  of  in- 
haling the  fumes  of  vinegar  and  the  eating 
of  peanuts.  He  gives  bis  patients  as  many 
peanuts  as  they  can  eat  without  injuring  their 
digestive oi^ns.  Dr.  Brewer  say;  "  I  now 
recommend  feeding  (do  not  laugh)  peanuts. 
One  would  think  this  a  very  indigestible  diet, 
but  they  crave  them,  and  it  has  always  been 
my  policy  to  find  what  my  patients  desire  to 
107 


Digitized  hy  Google 


i  pood.  Jlom?  a^d  (iardep 


eat,  and  unless  it  is  too  nnreasonable  I  hnmor 
tbem.  Two  ladies  have  become  quite  pluiup, 
and  after  a  year's  inhalations  have  ceased 
coughing  and  I  pronounced  them  well.  The 
peanut  was  long  known  as  an  excellent  fat 
producer,  and  much  more  agreeable  than 
rancid  shark  oil  that  oftentimes  is  sold  for 
cod  liver  oil.  While  not  all  can  digest  pea- 
nuts, agreat  many  even  with  feeble  digestion 
eat  them  without  discomfort.  It  beats  the 
Koch  lymph  and  is  the  most  satisfactory 
treatment  I  have  ever  tried  for  these  diseases." 

The  Sanitas  Food  Co.  of  Battle  Creek  are 
furnishing  various  preparations  of  nuts  such 
as  Bromose,  Nuttose,  Lac  Vegetal  or  Nut 
Cream,  Almond  Butter,  Pure  Nut  Meal,  Al- 
mond Meal  ftc.  made  from  the  choicest  nuts 
intended  to  supersede  the  nse  of  the  products 
of  the  cow  from  which  tuberculosis  or  con- 
sumption is  so  often  produced  in  the  haman 
system,  while  these  articles  are  excellent  for 
those  who  can  afford  them,  those  who  are 
obliged  to  economise,  can,  by  using  the  Veg- 
etarian Society  Mill,  prepare  nuts  in  various 
digestible  forms  at  very  little  cost. 

We  believe  with  the  use  of  these  wholesome 
foods  from  nuts,  consumption,  the  great 
scourge  of  humanity,  may  be  largely  eradi- 
cated, 

RECIPES. 

Truilated    rn>m    Ei<t/acA    a  Schmackhall.      y/gilatck/i 
JCochbMrA  von  Id>  Winter,  by  Chu.  P.  KoCDlg. 

Strawberry  Soup. — 3  pints  of  water,  i  pt. 
strawberries,  5  zwiebacks  or  dried  bread, 
some  lemon  juice.  Cook  in  covered  dish. 
Add  ^  lb.  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs. 

Chestnut  Pudding. — Put  hot  water  on  the 
chestnuts  and  take  the  skins  off.  Boil  soft  in 
milk.  Put  through  a  sieve  some  yolks  of 
eggs,  mix  white  of  egg  with  salt  and  sugar. 
Bake  '^  hour,  serve  with  vanilla  or  some 
other  sauce. 

Doughnuts. — Put  into  a  pan  flour  and  eggs, 
a  little  sugar,  butter,  salt  and  some  milk,  beat 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  air  bubbles  are 
produced,  work  dry  to  size  of  an  egg,  put  in 
an  earthern  dish  with  boiling  milk,  do  not 
lay  too  close  until  milk  is  absorbed  or  boiled 


dry.  Doughnuts  should  have  a  yellont  tint. 
Tobe  eaten  with  fruit  sauce.  Use  earthen  pan 
for  cooking. 

From  the  Fat  if  Ihc  Land  and  Hon  It  Live  m  il. 

Shredded  Carrots. — Cut  the  carrots  in  strips 
about  2  in.  long  X  '1  wide  and  %  thick. 
Put  in  kettle  with  water  enough  to  show,  but 
not  to  cover,  being  always  careful  not  to  let 
the  water  boil  entirely  away.  Just  before  it 
is  taken  up,  add  a  tablespoon  of  cocoanut 
butter  or  butter  oil,  rubbed  into  a  teaspoon 
offiouror  cornstarch,  together  with  a  table- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  a 
border  of  parsley. 

I'o  Cook  Dandelions. — The  cultivated  dan- 
delion is  a  great  favorite  being  more  delicate 
than  the  wild  variety.  Look  over  carefnlly 
and  wash  in  several  waters.  If  very  old,  pour 
boiling  water  over  and  let  them  stand  on  the 
stove  ten  minutes,  drain  and  steam  like  spin- 
ach, or  boil  in  as  little  water  as  possible  two 
hours  or  until  done.  A  large  handful  of 
cultivated  sorrel  is  said  to  give  an  excellent 
flavor  to  dandelion  or  any  other  greens  when 
cooked  with  them.  When  done,  drain  them 
in  a  colander,  cut  with  a  knife,  season  and 
serve  the  same  as  spinach.  Beet  tops,  mus- 
tard leaves,  dock,  milkweed,  cowslips  or  any- 
thing used  for  "greens"  should  be  fresh, 
very  carefully  looked  over,  and  washed  in 
several  waters. 

COOKING     VEGETABLES. 

The  Fat  of  Ike  Land  nc.  contains  many  good 
recipes  and  directions  for  cooking  vegetables 
which  we  would  do  well  to  follow  in  prepar- 
ing the  early  spring  vegetables  for  table  use. 
We  quote  the  following : 

"  Vegetables  for  stewing  should  be  pared 
very  lightly,  as  a  large  part  of  the  nutriment 
lies  just  beneath  the  skin.  Steaming  vegeta- 
bles is  the  best  method,  the  most  economical 
and  labor  saving.  When  the  water  in  the 
steamer  boils,  put  the  vegetables  in  dry,  and 
cook  until  a  fork  will  penetrate  them.  Vegeta- 
bles when  cold  may  be  finely  chopped  for  hash, 
or  if  warmed,  mashed  and  seasoned  may  be 
dropped  from  a  spoon  in  small  cakes  and 
baked.  They  can  also  be  used  for  soup, 
puree,  salad  or  stew,  with  suitable  seasonings. 
May, 


Digitized  by  Google 


Frtnn  X,  Syde,  Chlogo. 

MODERN  NECESSITY  KOR  ARTIFICIAL 
PLANT  FOODS. 
In  the  constant  struggle  for  existence  tbe 
horticultnrist  and  farmer  is  forced  to  meet  and 
supply  the  popular  demand.  Quantity  must 
be  considered  as  well  as  (juality,  and  to  even 
a  greater  extent  the  saleable  appearance  of  the 
product  must  be  cousidered.  If  the  orchards 
and  fields  were  tended  by  nature  alone,  our 
fruits,  Tegetables  and  grains  would  revert  to 
ancient  forms ;  therefore,  in  order  to  preserve 
(he  results  of  the  selections  and  experience  of 
oar  forefathers,  artificial  aids  which  supple- 
ment natural  methods  are  followed,  or  methods 
which  bring  about  the  results  wanted  by 
husbandmen  to  supply  the  demands  of  their 
markets  as  to  looks,  quality  and  quantity 
of  the  produce,   are  employed  wisely  or  other- 

Results  of  Experiekck. 

It  was  fooa  found  that  decaying  vegetable 
matter  which  had  passed  through  the  alimen- 
tary canal  of  domesticated  animals  increased 
the  yield ;  that  a  crop  grown  for  its  roots, 
followed  by  one  raised  for  its  leaves  ;  helped 
to  maintain  the  proper  balance  of  plant  food 
in  the  soil.  That  some  plants  when  returned 
to  tbe  soil  entire,  as  by  plowing  under  (called 
green  manures)  tended  to  increase  soil  pro- 
dnctiveness,  also  that  tillage  was  such  an 
advantage,  that  it  became  a  proverb  "He 
who  tills  his  land  manures  it." 

Advent  of  Chemistry. 

Chemical  analysis  of  different  soils  showed 
they  were  composed  of  varying  quantities  of 
the  snbstances  found  in  the  ashes  of  plants, 
partly  explaining  why  one  field  was  more 
fertile  than  another.  This  suggested  the 
mixing  of  soils,  and  to-day  we  have  as  a 
development  therefrom,  the  vast  and  steadily 
increasing  use  of  the  so  called  fertilizers. 
1897 


Difficulties  oe  the  Fertilizer  Question. 
Bnt  chemistry  has  not  solved  this  question, 
it  has  rather  added  to  the  difficulty.  We  find 
some  successful  and  prominent  fanners  who 
would  use  nothing  but  chemical  fertilizers, 
supplementing  them  with  green  manures ;  and 
who  [Lctualty  keep  no  more  animals  on  their 
farms  than  is  actually  required  to  supply 
power  etc.  On  the  other  hand,  equally  prom- 
inent and  successful  farmers  are  unable  to 
obtain  any  beneficial  financial  results  from 
their  outlay  and  use  of  commercial  fertilizers, 
but  advocate  thepractice  of  growing  lugumin- 
ous  crops  for  turning  under  as  green  manures, 
the  saving  and  applying  all  the  well  rotted 
dung  they  can  procure,  and  good  tillage,  with 
intelligent  crop  totntion. 


LENTIL  CULTURE  IN  AMERICA. 
Has  the  cultivation  of  lentils  been  feirly 
tried  in  any  of  the  states  of  this  country?  We 
believe  it  has  not.  Let  us  hear  from  the 
Agricultural  Department  on  this  subject,  if  it 
is  not  been  kepi  too  busy  distributing  common 
flower  seeds. 


CASA  BANANA. 
This  new  fruit  is  described  as  a  fine  keeper. 
It  has  been  kept  till  Jan.  ist;  then  peeled, 
cut  into  inch  lengths  and  preserved  with  equal 
weight  of  sugar,  boiled  in  a  little  water  and 
placed  in  glass  jars.  It  makes  a  rich  preserve 
with  a  flavor  resembling  a  combination  of 
muskmellon  and  pineapple.  Sliced  lemon 
may  be  used  to  give  it  the  desired  tartness. 
By  combining  it  with  apples  it  makes  an 
excellent  jam  or  marmalade  in  which  case  but 
a  small  quantity  of  sugar  is  required.  It  is 
said  this  fruit  was  first  grown  in  this  country 
by  a  lady  in  Louisana  who  found  the  seed  in 
green  coffee  bought  of  the  grocer.  It  has  a 
vine  10  feet  long, 

to9 


d  by  Google 


llpood,  Jlom?  apd  Qardep 


CHARLES  W.  FORWARD. 


We  have  great  pleasure  in  presenting  a  por- 
trait of  Mr  Charles  W.  Forward  whose  literary 
labors  in  connection  with  the  Vegetarian 
movement  in  England  have  placed  him  among 
the  most  industrious  and  talented  of  the 
English  propagandists.  Although  retired 
from  the  editorial  responsibility  of  the  I'eg- 
etariati  Review,  Mr.  Forward  contributes 
articles  of  special  value  to  the  Review  and  The 
Vegetarian.  He  has  recently  commenced  a 
series  on  "The  Pioneers  of  Vegetarian  ism" 
beginning  with  an  account  of  our  esteemed 
personal  friend  William  Harvey,  J.  P.  His 
contributions  to  the  Review  have  taken  the 
form  of  "  A  History  of  the  Vegetarian  Move- 
ment." 

We  prefer  to  give  extracts  Trom  his  writings 
to  giving  a  biographical  sketch,  for  being 
a  young  man,  he  has,  we  trust,  a  long  and 
useful  life   before  him. 

Our  readers  had  better  learn  of  him  by  what 
he  does,  and  then  they  will  be  better  qualified 
to  form  an  estimate  of  his  worth  than  by  any 
eulogy  our  own  admiration  might  instigate. 
We  are  rejoiced  to  know  that  the  movement 
in  England  is  so  well  sustained  es  it  is  by 
young  men  of  high  literary  merit  of  whom 
Mr.  Forward  is  a  most  excellent  example. 

His  history  of  the  movement  commences 
with  Pythagoras  and  Seneca,  not  venturing 
upon  the  more  mythical  period  of  Zoroaster, 
although  the  prediction  attributed  to  this 
prophet,  that  a  time  would  come  when  man- 
kind will  live  on  the  products  of  the  Vegetable 
kingdom,  would  seem  to  be  a  good  beginning 
to  such  a  history.  With  a  picture  of  Seneca 
he  gives  Seneca's  remark  : 

"If  these  maxims"  (the  Pythagorean)  "  are 
true,  then  to  abstain  from  the  flesh  of  ani- 
mals is  to  encourage  and  foster  innocence  ;  if 
ill  founded,  at  least  they  teach  us  frugality  and 
simplicity  of  living.  And  what  loss  have  you 
in  losing  your  cruelty  ?  I  merely  deprive  you 
of  the  foodof  Hoiis  and  voltures.  Moved  by 
these  and  similar  arguments  I  resolved  to 
abstain   from   flesh  meat,  and  at  the  end  of  a 


year  the  habit  of  abstinence  was  not   only 
easy  but  delightful." 

He  then  follows  with  the  philosophers  and 
Christian  Fathers  and  comes  to  modem  his- 
tory with  Paley,  Pope,  Shelley,  Bentham. 
I^aniartine,  Phillips,  '  Wesley,  Howard,  Swe- 
denborg  &c.  He  records  the  fact  that  although 
naturally  delicate,  Wesley  maintained  fair 
health  and  almost  ceaseless  activity  till  the 
age  of   88. 

In  his  third  article  he  gives  sketches  of  oar 
late  friends  bletcalfe.  Alderman  Harvey  and 
John  Smith. 

He  also  gives  sketches  of  Mr.  W.  Gibson 
Ward,  Graham,  Dr.  Lamb  and  Wm.  Oldham, 
the  pater  of  the  Concoidium  in  which  onr 
name  becomes  associated  with  those  of  the 
pioneers  in  the  movement  in  England,  and 
tlie  period,  the  Jubilee  of  which  is  to  be  cele- 
brated this  year,  is  introduced  by  pictures 
of  Wm.  Horsell  and  Joseph  Brotherton. 

The  following  sketch  of  Wm.  Gibson  Ward 
is  specially  interesting  to  ns  as  it  was  from 
him  we  learned  the  folly  if  not  the  wickedness 
of  flesh  eating: 

"Mr.  Gibson  Ward,  above  referred  to,  was 
a  Herefordshire  squire,  of  Perriston  Towers. 
Ross.  He  was  bom  in  Birmingham  in  1819. 
and  became  a  vegetarian  at  the  age  of  30.  Mr. 
Gibson  Ward  was  an  able  writer  and  lecturer, 
possessing  a  most  powerful  voice,  and,  be- 
sides being  a  vegetarian,  he  was  an  abstainer 
from  alcohol  and  tobacco  and  an  ardent  oppo- 
nent of  vaccination.  He  worked  long  and 
earnestly  for  the  elevation  of  the  agricultural 
laborer,  and  was,  from  the  first,  a  trustee  of 
the  National  Agricultural  Laborer's  Union. 
In  the  winter  [S78-9,  his  famous  letters  to  the 
Times  newspaper  appearc-d,  advocating 
the  use  of  the  lentil  as  a  food  and  created  a 
large  amount  of  interest  in  the  question  of 
cheap  and  wholesome  food.'' 

Mr.  Forward  is  the  historian  of  the  Vege- 
tarian movement  and  his  contributions  to 
periodicals  will  form  the  basis  of  a  mote  per- 
manent work. 

May,  1897 


d  by  Google 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


CHARLES  W.  FORWARD. 


d  by  Google 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


db,  Google 


ppood.  }\on\^  apd  Qardepjl 


Vol.  I,  No.  8,  New  Shhies. 


Whole  Ndubbr,  8o. 


LYDIA  G.    HAMILTON   &    FRANK  L  HAMILTON. 


IN  presenting  portrails  of  Mr.  «  Mrs.  Ham- 
ilton, we  introduce  to,rf»M-  readers  two  of 
tlie  most  recent  acquisitions  to  the  uieui- 
ber-thip  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America, 
and  we  do  so  becaase  they  have  engaged  in  a 
work  in  which  vegetariann  throughout  the 
country  will  feel  a  deep-ii)|weGt  as  soon  as 
made  acquainted  with  its  nature. 

Lydia  Goodnow  was  bom  at  Millingtou, 
Mass..  April  jolh,  1866.  From  the  ape  of 
sixteen  she  has  been  zealously  devoted  lo  the 
caring  for  and  healing  the  sick  ;  studying  in 
the  Eclectic  and  Homeopathic  schools  and  in 
1889  she  studied  in  medical  classes  under  Dr. 
Dution's  tuition  in  the  Vermont  Medical 
College  which  became  the  Chicago  Health 
University,  Dr.  Dutton'»f-instru.:tion  was 
distinctly  Hygienic  .irH  Miss  Goodnow 
attended  it  both  at  Rutland,  Vt.  and  at  Bos- 
ton. Miss  G.  iias  been  very  successful  in  any 
case  she  has  undertaken.  Miss  Goodnow 
lookup  the  sti.dy  of  physic^  culture,  espec- 
"ally  the  branches  uealing  with  invalids  and 
adults. 

While  away,  teaching,  the  thought  of  a 
hill  on  her  father's  (arm  at"  Millingt<,n  came 
into  ber  mind  as  an  ideal  spot  for  a  Sanitarium, 
and  from  that  lime  she  has  planned  and 
worked  with  this  object  in  view. 

In  1892,  Miss  Goodnow  mdVried  Frank  L. 
Haniiltort.  whose  picture  is  also  presented, 
and  the  two  have  united  in  working  out  the 
pUns  of  the  "Welkin  Bluff  Rest  Cure"  as 
their  life  work. 

Mr.  Hamilton  being  a  builder  was  just  the 
kind  of  help  needed  for  the  enterprise.  The 
site  comprises  50  acres  of  wood  land,  on  an 
eminence  rising  about  200  ft.  The  hill  is 
about  800  feet  East  and  West  and  about  2,80c 
ft.  from  North  to  South.  ITie  ledges  of  rock 
'897    . 


are  about  half  way  down  the  hill  on  either 
side.  A  road  enables  a  team  to  ascend  the 
hill. 

The  young  timber  is  mainly  oak,  especially 
on  the  South  end  of  the  bluff  with  quite  a  few 
pines,  chestnuts,  birches,  poplars  etc.  The 
North  end  of  the  hill  is  almost  exclusively 
White  Pine,  This  is  the  portion  where 
building  has  been  commenced.  Trees  of 
Pinus  rigida  grow  near  the  base  of  the  hill  and 
GOnie  of  Pinus  miiiv  and  a  clump  of  Pinus 
resimosa  form  a  pleasant  resort  for  those  who 
desire  its  healing  baJm. 

Hemlock  and  Spruce  grow  in  the  country 
round  about.  Also  the  Mountain  Laurel. 
There  is  an  occasional  Balsam  Fir,  Cedar  and 
Larch. 

On  the  top  of  |he, bluff  is  about  an  acre  of 
level  land  well  adapted  for  buildings  among 
the  pines. 

Several  small  lake^help  to  make  the  views 
from  the  biuff  interesting  and  diversifi-rf. 
They  are  on  the  east  side  of  the  bluff  and 
when  the  full  moon  ri.ses  a  reflection  is  seen 
ill  one  of  these  placid  lakes  as  perfect  as 
above  the  horizon.  The  moonlight  adds  an 
enchantment  to  the  landscapeand  renders  the 
walks  among  the  trees  even  more  delightful 
than  in  the  day  time. 

The  Athol  and  Springfield  R.  R,  runs  across 
the  eastern  angle  of  the  town.  Millington  is 
one  mile  from  the  R.  R.  Station.  The  name 
of  Welkin,  or  dome  of  heaven,  was  given  to 
the  hill,  it  being  the  oriKinal  name  of  the 
town.  The  highest  place  in  the  town  is  a 
niountiin  1,200  fl.  above  sea  level. 

"  Rest  Cuie"  has  been  adopted  in  prefer- 
ence to  Sanilarium,  not  wishing  to  convey 
the  idea  of  giiing  medicine.  In  addition  to 
the  tiees  th(    wild  flowers  that  grow  here  add 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  )1om^  apd  (Jardeo 


much  lo  the  enjoyment  o(  Die  guests ;  the 
trailing  arbutus,  of  which  Mrs.  Hamilton  has 
kindly  sent  us  a  consignment,  is  finerthan 
any  we  have  ever  seen  even  on  the  shores 
of  Lake  Micbigpn  and  other  favorite  resorts 
of  this  shy  early  spring  flower.  It  runs  riot 
in  ibis  charmed  locality  and  is  not  so  hard  to 
find  8S  in  the  sand  dunes  of  Michigan.  The 
flowering  Dogwood  (Coraus  Florida)  grows 
freery  an  the  hill,  as  also  the  wild  rose,  the 
shad  tree,  the  mountain  laurel,  witch  hsKel 
and  the  odorous  and  other  varieties  of  the 
golden  rod.  violets,  marsh  marigold  {Caltha) 
Trillium,  azalea,  the  white,  odorous  water 
lily,  the  white  and  yellow  daisy,  fringed 
gentian  and  many  kinds  of  flowers  that  require 
botanists  to  describe  and  to  cla.isify.  Few 
places  could  be  found  more  favorable  for 
botanical  exploration.  Ferns,  the  dainty 
maidenhair  being  among  them  ;  and  there  is 
scarcely  a  spot  that  does  not  offer  living 
beauties  for  the  lover  of  nature  to  enjoy. 

On  this  Welkin  blnff  it  is  not  designed  to 
build  or  the  present  at  least,  a  million  dollar 
hotel,  but  to  place  among  the  pine  trees  sim- 
ple cottages  where  overwrought  nervous 
subjects  can  breath  the  piney,  balmy  air 
without  heaving  their  rooms  or  porches ; 
where  the  perdime  of  the  evergreens  and 
flowers  can  be  enjoyed  even  by  those  who  at 
first  cannot  leave  their  cottages,  but  who 
under  the  influence  of  such  surroundings  and 
simple  health  treatment.can  breathe  the  breath 
of  life  and  soon  beconie  able  to  walk  among 
the  trees  and  forget  their  ailments. 

The  cottages  being  on  an  elevation  above 
the  morning  fogs,  are  perfectly  dry  and  airy. 

In  1895  Mr,  &  Mrs,  Hamilton  put  up  a  tent 
there,  and  while  living  in  the  tent,  they 
started  building  rustic  cottages  and  then  in- 
vi(ed  some  of  their  friends  from  the  cities  to 
Slimmer  with  theiu.  These  friends  came 
and  were  so  enchanteil  with  the  plan  that  it 
was  discovered  that  the  much  desired  Rest  had 
made  a  beginning  and  some  became  boarders 
for  the  summer,  but  living  in  rustic  cottages, 
instead  of  large,  costly  hotels, 
116 


The  picturesqueness  of  the  out  of  door  life ; 
the  living  in  cottages  which  were  then  unplas- 
tered  ;  the  air  always  so  pure,  made  this  first 
summer  on  Welkin  Bluff  a  perfect  delight  and 
convinced  the  projectors  that  the  place  was 
all  ibey  had  ever  hoped  for  it.  But  after 
their  boarders  had  gone,  for  whom  they  had 
thought  it  necessary  to  provide  ordinary  fare, 
they  became  so  disgu.sted  with  the  serving 
and  eating  of  animal  food  that  they  concluded 
to  give  the  food  question  the  most  serious 
attention  and  they  soon  decided  that  if  it  was 
not  possible  to  build  and  conduct  the  place  on 
a  Vegetarian  basis  then  they  would  not  butld. 
So  they  concluded  to  make  their  blnfi"  too 
sacred  a  spot  to  be  polluted  with  slaughter 
and  bloodshed  or  their  products. 

The  place  is  still  somewhat  crude,  but  for 
those  who  do  not  object  to  roughing  it  a  little 
during  the  summer  months,  we  can  conceive 
of  no  more  satisfactory  way  of  recuperating 
the  energiesafter  a  winter's  campaign  of  city 
life  and  sedentary  occupation. 

Mrs.  Hamilton  writes:  "All  wanting 
daily  light,  regular  exercise,  physical  train- 
ing, massage,  and  vapor  baths  could  I  know 
come  here  with  uinch  benefit.  At  present  we 
have  two  three  roomed  cottages  and  two  sin- 
gle roomed,  which  is  all  we  shall  attempt 
until  we  can  fill  these  with  boarders.  They 
all  have  generous  platforms  outside  and  are 
in  every  way  perfectly  suitable  for  any  one  to 
live  in  through  the  summer  months.  We 
have  one  made  a  little  closer  and  have  passed 
a  comfoitable  winter  here  even  with  the  two 
little  ones.  The  simplicity  and  rusticity 
make  these  rural  abodes  much  admired  by 
lovers  of  nature.  We  hope  to  get  $5.00  or 
$6  00  a  week  for  boarders,  including  all  the 
advantages  of  physical  culture.  Massage, 
vapor  baths  &c.  would  necessarily  cost  a  little 


"Our garden  is  already  planted  and  ready 
to  bear  this  year  and  one  third  of  an  acre  is 
in  strawberries.  All  the  berries,  black,  blue 
and  whortle,  grow  in  wild  abundance  about 
here  and  can  be  had  in  large  quantities." 
June. 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  jjiom^  3J)d  Qardep 


FEELING  STRONGER. 
I    feel    no     w<;aker  but  stronger    for    my 
change  of  diet   to  that    of  the  Vegetarian. — 
Sarah    Hall,  806  Venango  St.,    Pfaila. 


THE  WIDOW  OF  DR.  ALCOTT  AT  85. 
I  have  recently  been  to  Obcrlin,  0  .  to  see 
my  mother  and  sister.  Mother  is  remarkably 
well  for  one  born  in  iSia.— Rev.  William  P. 
Alcott,  Boxford.  Mass. 


CHICAGO  ENTHUSIASM. 
There  were  300  at  our  last  meeting  at  the 
West  Side  branch  and  at  the  last  Central 
meeting  the  hall  could  not  hold  the  people 
that  came.  The  V.  clubs  are  also  enthusiastic. 
— Francesl..  Duseuberry,  Mc  Vic ker  Building, 
Chicago. 

VEGETARIAN  ADVENTISTS. 
Dr.  Kellogg  attended  the  American  Med- 
ical Association's  Summer  Convention  in 
Philadelphia.  He  told  us  the  Adventists 
were  rapidly  adopting  Vegetarianism  from 
principle  and  predicted  there  would  be  40,000 
Vegetarians  among  them  within  5  years. 


THE  CAUSE  IN  BROOKLYN. 

Tbc^.  y.  Journal  g,\vts  A  glowing  account 
of  what  onr  friend  Chas.  A.  Montgomery  is 
doing  to  advance  the  Vegetarian  cause  in 
Brooklyn.  It  says:  "Mr.  Montgomery  is 
not  keeping  his  Vegetarian  movement  within 
the  limits  of  a  fashionable  fad.  He  has  ad- 
dressed communications  to  every  resident  of 
Brooklyn  who  believed  in  an  absolute  exclu- 
sion of  meat  from  their  tables  or  had  any 
tendency  in  that  direction,  inviting  all  such 
to  join  a  Vegetarian  society  which  is  to  hold 
meetings  and  conduct  an  earnest  campaign. 
Hundreds  of  followers  have  already  manifested 
their  desire  to  join  with  him.  Vegetarians 
in  New  York  are  numbered  by  thousands, 
and  Mr.  Montgomery  says  it  will  not  be  long 
before  there  will  be  fully  as  many  enrolled  in 
his  Brooklyn  society  as  are  now  championing 
the  cause  iu  New  York." 

However  sensational   the  article  in  the  N. 

y.  Journal  may  be  regarded,    we    know  that 

what  the  reporter  says  of  Mr.  Montgomery, 

personally  is  strictly  true:     "Mr.  Montgom- 

1897 


cry,  despite  his  fifteen  years  without  meat,  is 
robust,  being  of  medium  height  and  weighing 
about  190  lbs.  He  is  about  forty  years  old, 
but  his  cheeks  are  as  ruddy  and  his  eyes  as 
bright  and  clear  as  those  of  a  cuuntry  lad  of 


FAMILY  OF  PYTHAGORAS. 
Pythagoras"s  wife  Theano  wrote  several 
books  and  when  she  became  a  widow,  taught 
Pythagorean  philosophy  to  many  disciples 
from  various  countries.  Beinp  asked  by  a 
woman  how  long  a  time  a  woman  might  be 
allowed  to  pray  to  the  gods  after  having  con- 
versed with  a  man:  "If  it  were  her  husband," 
said  Theano,     "the  next  day,  if  a  stranger, 

The  sons,  Telauges  and  Mnesarchus,  were 
eminent  philosophers  and  joined  with  their 
mother  in  the  government  of  the  Pythagorean 
school.  Arignote's,  (one  of  the  daughters) 
writings  were  much  admired  in  the  age  of 
Porphyrins.  Damo  was  another,  in  her  hands 
Pythagoras  left  his  works  with  a  prohibition 
against  communicating  them  to  strangers. 
This  injunction  she  obeyed  at  the  risk  of  her 
life,  and  tho'  she  was  offered  a  great  sum, 
rather  chose  to  live  in  poverty  than  prove  dis- 
loyal to  her  father.  Myla  was  the  third 
daughter.  Her  works  and  history  were  very 
famous  even  iu  Lncian's  time.  She  was  so 
signally  virtuous  that  for  her  unblemished 
conduct  as  a  girl  she  was  selected  to  lead  the 
choms  of  maidens  in  a  national  solemnity  ; 
and,  for  her  exemplary  life  in  marriage,  was 
placed  at  the  head  of  all  the  matrons  in  the 
like  public  ceremony.  Her  memory  was  so 
precious  that  her  house  wns,  after  her  decease, 
converted  into  a  temple. 

Fythagoras's  character  as  the  head  of  a 
household  is  signalized  by  two  servants  As- 
tmeus  and  Tamolxes  so  improving  themselves 
under  htm  that  they  were  afhliated  into  his 
sect,  and  made  an  eminent  reputation  in  the 
list  of  disciples.  Dedpil  exemplar,  vitiis  inii- 
labile. — E.'«araples,  vice  can  imitate,  de- 
ceive.— Excerpted  from  TTie  Guardian,  Lon- 
don, Sept.  19,  1713  by  R.  Hecker,  Philada. 
May  7lh,  1897. 


d  by  Google 


Ipocki.  \\omz  aifd  (iarde9 


A  VEGETARIAN  FOREVER. 
I  am  still  a  Vegetatian  and  intend  to 
continue  until  1  am  called  away  to  a  better 
world,  a  place  where  no  slaughter  is  ever 
committed. — A.  H.  Jacobson,  Woodinville, 
King    Co..  Wash. 

NO  DESIRE  TO  GO  BACK. 
It  is  now  'most  six  years  since  I  gave 
up  eating  meat  and  fish  and  I  have  no  de- 
sire to  go  back  again  to  my  former  way  of 
living.— Harden  S.  Brookings,  Fres.  V.  S., 
28  Winter   St.,  Boston,  Mass. 


LADY  FAGET. 
I  have  read  with  much  interest  your  article 
on  Lady  Faget  and  the  extracts  from  her 
paper.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  humane 
and  sensible  ideas  contained  in  both  must 
surely  make  headway  in  the  world,  especially 
when  advocated  by  such  reasonable  persons. 
— T.  A.  Abbott,  420  Sibley  St.,  St.  Faul. 
Minn. 


IN    FERFECT    PHYSICAL    HEALTH. 

We  are  still  Vegetarians,  using  no  flesh 
meats  at  all,  and  entirely  eschewing  fish 
and  oysters.  We  are  in  perfect  physical 
health  and  mental  health  as  well.  My  wife 
19  an  excellent  Vegetarian  cook  and  we 
never  think  of  returning  to  Egypt  and  its 
flesh  pots.— D.  H.  Snoke,  452  Blake  St., 
Indianapolis,  Ind. 

TWO  ROSY  BOYS. 
Our  friend  Rudolph  Meeker  has  received 
from  one  of  his  Vermont  converts  the 
following:  "We  have  to  bear  some  chaffing 
for  our  fanaticism,  but  two  rosier  boys  than 
mine  are  hard  to  find.  And  no  medicine 
closet,  nor  physician  to  pay."  And  Mr. 
Heckeradds:  "  Total  abstinence  is  rendtired 
very  materially  practicable  by  eschewing  a 
mixed  diet.  So  this  correspondent  thinks 
and  tells    me." 

N.  Y.    VEGETARIAN   SOCIETY. 

The    April    meeting    of  this    Society   whs 

held  on  the  27th   and  was  well  attended.     E. 

G.    Day    M.    D,    spoke  on    "  Health".     Mr. 


Haviland  writes  encouragingly    of  the    pros- 
pects of  this  Society. 

THE  FHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  S'Y. 

The  May  meeting  of  the  F.  V.  S.  wna  held 
on  the  17th  inst.  It  was  one  of  great  inter- 
est. Rev.  A.  T.  de  I«arsy  presided  and  J. 
Seymour  Doolittle  delivered  an  address  on 
"Nitrogen  as  Food"  illustrated  with  numer- 
ous pictures  of  eminent  men  showing  such  as 
required  nitrogenous  or  muscle  forming  food 
and  such  as  required  carbonaceous  or  bent- 
fonuing  food. 

Mr.  Wm.  C.  Ferris  of  Chicago  spoke,  and 
then  read  a  paper  entitled  "At  Meal  Time" 
[See his  paper  in  Hom^  Department]. 

Rev.  Amanda  Deyo  from  Scranton,  Fa.  who 
has  recently  removed  to  Fhiladelphia,  said 
she  had  several  times  met  friend  Clubb  at 
Peace  gatherings  and  had  noted  his  refusal 
to  eat  clam  chowder  and  such  food  as  was  so 
common  in  New  England,  and  being  naturally 
opposed  to  cruelty  had  a  favorable  regard  for 
Vegetarianism.  She  was  now  living  with 
Sarah  Hall,  which  gave  her  a  good  opportunity 
for  trying  Vegetarian- diet  which  thus  far  was 
a  success.  She  hoped  to  come  frequently 
among  the  Vegetarians  of  Philadelphia  and 
was  learning  their  ways. 

Mr.  Henry  Doolittle  referred  to  the  methods 
adopted  at  the  Battle  Creek  Sanitarium  for 
ascertaining  the  kind  of  food  required  by  the 
patients  and  the  time  occupied  in  digestion, 
by  examining  the  contents  of  the  stomach 
cei  tain  periods  of  lime  after  eating. 

Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb  showed  that  nitrogen 
was  an  important  element  both  in  the  food  of 
plants  as  well  as  in  the  food  of  man  and 
animals  and  the  necessity  of  selecting  purer 
fertilizers  in  order  to  have  better  fruit  and 
vegetables.  The  nitrogenous  plants,  pulse 
and  clover  being  free  from  coarse  animal 
poisons  supply  the  best  fertilizers  and  are 
much  cheaper  than  the  animal  fertilizers  sold 
to  farmers.  He  concluded  by  moving  a  vote 
of  thanks  to  the  speakers  of  the  evening  who 
had  furnished  such  an  ample  "feast  of  reason 
and  flow  of  soul." 

June, 


d  by  Google 


Ipood.  }1om^  aj)d  Qardei^ 


pood.  \\on\(i  apd  (^ardei} 


PHILADELPHIA.  jrjNH. 

1897. 

T^CttaHao   SocMy 

of  Americ*.    P 

nblirter* 

All  comniiiiilcatlcou  to 

be  (CDt    to  310 

Ch«tou 

St. 

REV.    HENRY 

S.   CLUBB,    KdHor. 

3ae  SDbKTlptlon,  Sacli., 

our  SubMlptloD 

■    fi.»> 

year. 

twelve  Ini 

ine,      one   it» 
ertlou  I  dollar. 

ten.  .0 

emu, 

We  never  publish  an  adverli semen t  in  F., 
H.  &  G.  that  does  not  bring  numerous 
responses. 

Our  gth  nrticle  on  VegetaTianisra  in  Amer- 
ica appears  in  the  Ma^No.  ofthe  K  Review, 
with  pictures  of  Shaker  life. 

Our  paper  circulates  among  an  intelligent, 
thinking  class  of  people  who  know  a  good 
thing  when  they  see  it  advertised. 


Our  Vegetarian  friends  who  can  take  sum- 
mer Boarders  should  advertise  in  F.,  H.  &  G. 
We  get  many  applicants  for  Vegetarian  board 
for   the    summer  months. 


Mr.  Wm.  Canby  Ferris  from  Chicago  is 
preparing  and  intending  to  lectuie  on  Vege- 
tarian Hygiene  ftc.  His  address  before  the 
Fhila.  V.  S.  in  onr  Home  Department  this 
month  will  be  read  with  much  interest. 


A.  W.  Kerr,  Wichita  Falls,  Texas  writes  : 
"Interest  in  Vegetarianism  is  growing  here. 
I  have  been  a  Vegetarian  about  2  years. 
Nothing  could  induce  me  to  return  to  a  flesh 
diet." — This  was  ac<:ompanied  by  a  club  of 
ten  subscribers  and  orders  for  tracts  &c. 


I  sincerely  hope  you  may  get  the  10,000 
subscribers  you  so  greatly  need.  Will  try  to 
help  you  again. — W,  L.  Atcheson,  Sweetwater, 
Texas. — If  our  Texas  friends  were  to  go  to 
work  they  could  easily  send  us  i.ooo  .sub-scrib- 
ers  from  their  great  state.  We  promise  to 
augment  the  reading  pages  to  24  as  soon  as 
10,000  subscribers  are  obtained. 


The  enterprise  of  Mr.  &  Mrs.    Hamilton  of 
which  we  publish  an  illustrated  account  in  tliis 
1897 


number  deserves  the  support  of  all  vegetarians 
who  can  affoni  to  go  there.  There  should  be  a 
Conference  of  Vegetarians  for  the  good  of  the 
cause  at  Welkin  Bluff  this  summer.  Let  us 
hear  from  our  friends  as  to  how  many  could 
meet  us  there  in  August  next  should  we  call 
a  Convention. 


Onrprinter  who  has  done  much  to  improve 
the  appearance  of  Food,  Home  ft  Garden  was 
not  a  Vegetarian  and.  he  has  been  addicted  to 
tobacco  and  tbe  result  is  he  is  suffering  from 
lung  difEculty  and  has  had  to  go  to  the  hospi- 
tal. It  took  H8  over  a  week  to  get  suited  and 
this  has  caused  delay  in  this  issue.  We 
trust,  however,  our  friends  will  be  satisfied 
with  the  present  issue  when  they  do  get  it.  . 


I  should  like  to  unite  with  the  Vegetarian 
Society  if  there  are  any  personal  advantages 
to  be  had.  Would  be  glad  to  know  more 
about  it. — Miss  Elsie  C.  Smith,  Kokomo,  Ind. 
— The  personal  advantages  of  being  a  member 
of  the  V,  S.  A.  are  that  the  certificate  of  mem- 
bership  is  an  introduction  to  the  Society  of  the 
best  people  on  the  Continent  of  America, 
while  the  altruistic  element  of  your  nature 
becomes    deveroped    in  the    effort  to  benefit 


Being  u  Vegetarian  the  last  6  years,  never 
to  go  back,  but  always  forward,  shall  be 
thankful  to  you  for  a  sample  copy  of  F.,  H.  a 
G.  I  huve  long  tried  to  get  your  exact 
address;  just  found  in  the  Esoteric. — Alfred  J. 
Krienitz,  2332  Vleet  St.,  Milwaukee,  Wis. — 
We  are  frequently  receiving  letters  like  the 
above  indicating  that  there  are  many  Vege- 
tarians who  are  so  isolated  as  not  to  know 
their  own  headquarters,  showing  the  necessity 
of  a  larger  circulation  of  Veg.  literature. 
"Philadelphia"  will  always  reach  us  if  the 
St.  a  no.  be  omitted.  We  need  to  place  F., 
H.  ft  G.  in  every  Hotel  and  Reading  Room  in 
the  land.  Will  our  friends  please  help  do 
this?  Every  dollar  will  furnish  four  copies  to 
any  addresses  sent.  This  is  help  that  all  can 
give  and  it  is  greatly  needed.  Our  friends 
motto  is  a  good  one:     "  Never  to  go  back". 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  Horn?  ai^d  (jardep 


The  Vegetarian  Cycling  Club,  London,  Eng. 
has  64  members  and  9  associates.  Tlic  con- 
tests won  by  its  memben;  have  been. numerous. 
Mr,  Bruiuing  broke  Stanley  Oakes'  record  of 
two  miles  by  15  seconds  and  on  New  Year's 
day  broke  his  own  record  by  a  farther  12 
seconds.  The  report  for  last  year  describes 
the  gold  and  silver  medals  won  by  the  mem- 
bers of  the  club.  G.  G.  Watts  won  a  gold 
medal  for  100  miles  in  5  hours,  38  minutes  on 
on  North  Roads  and  on  Path  100  miles  iu  4 
hours,  3omin.,  50  sec. 


them  read  F,,  H.  &  G,  and  other  literature 
on  the  subject. — A,  H,  Jacobson,  Woodin- 
ville.  King  Co,  Wash. — Mr.  Jacobson  is 
doing  a  good  work  giving  infonuation  to 
working  men.  We  send  him  Foods  for 
distribution.  Will  others  kindly  help  him 
in   this  way  ? 


GOUT  Be  FLESH-EATING. 
One-twelfth  of  the  population  of  England 
suffer  from  gout.  A  Berlin  physician.  Dr. 
Feahlner,  says  that  this  malady  is  often  due 
to  the  excessive  use  of  meat, — Record. — We 
have  never  known  a  vegetarian  afflicted  with 
gout. 


"SUN  COOKED  FOOD." 
Query  :  I  would  ask  through  the  F.,  H.  G. 
•'What  am  I  to  understand  by  Sun  Cooked 
Food?" — This  term  has  been  usually  applied 
to  fruit,  grain,  nuts  &c..,  ripened  in  the  sun 
iu  contradistinction  of  root  vegetables  that 
mature  underground  oi-  seem  to  require 
artificial  cooking  to  make  them  suitable  for 
food. 


FROM  A  SENSE  OF  JUSTICE. 
Frauk  Aker,  Middleburg,  Scho.  Co.,  N.  Y., 
who  has  recently  become  a  member  of  the 
V.  S,  A,,  has,  his  brother  writes;  "been  a 
strict  vegetarian  2  years  and  5  months,  using 
the  past  year  or  more  not  even  milk  and  its 
products,  or  eggs,  as  food."  He  is  18  years 
of  age  and  with  his  elder  brother  Nelson  J, 
Aker,  "  find  that  a  diet  free  from  flesh,  is 
absolutely  and  entirely  beneficial,  but  we 
became  vegetarians  from  a  sense  of  justice." 

A  WORKING  MAN'S  TESTIMONY. 
It  is  now  over  two  years  since  I  quit  eat- 
ing meat  and  I  am  more  alive  than  when  I 
quit.  I  have  worked  hard  all  the  time 
since.  There  are  four  or  five  persons  in  this 
vicinity  who  are  "almost  persuaded"  to  be- 
come    Vegetarians.      I     have     been    letting 


A    COLORED    YOUTH  CONVERTED. 

The  arguments  of  Dr.  Willis  O.  Hahn 
and  three  numbers  ^f  F.  H.  ft  G,  which  Dr. 
Ilahn  gave  me,  induced  me  to  become  a  Veg- 
etarian almost  a  vear  ago  and  I  have  no 
desire  to  return  to  the  "flesh-pots". — Stew- 
art B.  PhCBuix,  162  E,  Market  St.,  Wilkes 
Barre,  Pa. — Dr.  Hahn  has  written  several 
valuable  tracts  which  are  worthy  of  large 
circulation; — "Why  1  became  a  Vegetarian" 
ia  one  of  them.  Mr.  Plicenix  has  engaged 
in  a  discussion  of  Vegetarianism  at  the 
A.  M,  E,   Church  at  Wilkes  Barre. 


CHARACTER  MOLDED  BY  FOOD. 
I  am  satisfied  that  our  characters  are 
molded  by  the  food  we  eat  as  much  as  by 
any  other  influence,  -as  is  evinced  by  the 
people  who  consiinie  large  qiianties  of  beef 
or  swine  flesh.  Neither  does  the  argument 
that  a  vegetable  and  cereal  diet  conduces 
a  timid  or  cowardly  state  of  mind  fiud  any 
evidence  in  history,  but  rather  to  the  very 
contray. — Miss  Elsie  C.  Smith,  Kokomo,  Ind. 
— Yes  food  that  induces  steadiness  of  nerve 
improves  individual  control  of  temper  as 
the  nerves  are  so  intimately  connected  with 
the  brain  and  mental   organs. 


VEGETARIAN  JUBILEE. 
This  is  the  jubilee  year  of  the  Vegetarian 
movement,  and  there  are  prospects  that  the 
event  will  be  becomingly  celebrated.  The 
number  of  persons  professing  vegetarianism 
has  increased  largely  in  England,  and  in  I/on- 
don  many  new  restaurants  have  been  opened 
which  provide  only  a  vegetable  menu, — lie- 
cord. — The  Jubilee  of  Vegetarianism  in  this 
country  will  be  May  15th  igoo  as  the  first 
American  Vegetarian  Society  was  organized  ■ 
May  ijth,  1850.  Shall  we  celebrate  it?  If 
our  readers  will  concentrate  their  efforts  on 
June, 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  flom^  apd  Qar<)e9 


giving  Food.  Hour  &  Garden  io,cxm)  aub- 
scrihers  they  will  enable  the  Society  to  cele- 
brate it  in  good  style. 


CANNOT  CLIMB. 
Wisliing  yoo  great  success  in  your  noble 
f^fibrts.  Beast  killing  and  flesh-eating  man 
will  not  be  able  to  climb  up  to  a  high  platfonn 
of  mor-ility.— Prof.  Habel,  Y.  M.  C.  A.  Build- 
ing,  15th  Sl  Chestnut  Sts.,  Phila.— Prof.  Habel 
is  constantly  engaged  in  teaching  yonng 
people  languages  at  the  Y.  M.  C.  A.  Building. 
But  he  finds  time  to  put  in  a  good  word  for 
vegetarianism  and  is  exercising  a  beneficent 
influence  over  his  pupils.  We  called  on  him 
recently  and  found  him  a  most  genial  teacher 
with  strong  humane  sympathies.  He  gave  a 
strong  testimony  for  vegetarianism,  speaking 
loud  enough  for  all  his  pupils  to  hear  it  He 
pointed  to  our  nearly  60  years  experience  and 
asked  his  pupils  if  our  case  did  noV  confirm  his 
testimony? 


BANANA  FLOUR. 
In  reply  to  inquiries  on  the  subject,  Bana- 
na Flonr  is  made  by  Mr.  James  P.  Hall, 
Armadale  Works,  Brown's  Town  P.  O.,  Jamai- 
ca, W.  I.  A  letter  received  from  him  offers 
to  supply  the  article  at  Dry  Harbor,  Jamaica 
for  $28.00  or  $3o.ooa  ton  sbipping  it  to  N. 
Y.  The  ton  is  2240  lbs.  Mr.  Hall  has 
received  the  highest  awards  at  the  Jamaica 
Exhibition  1890,  and  at  the  World's  Fair, 
Chicago,  in  1893.  He  ships  it  to  London  at 
$30. CO  a  ton.  He  guarantees  the  flour  up  to 
the  sample  he  exhibited  in  Chicago,  and  war- 
rants it  pnreand  free  from  salt,  or  any  adulter- 
ation whatever.  Mr.  C.  Amory  Stevens  of 
New  York,  and  Capt  D,  L.  Baker,  Port  Anto- 
nio, Jamaica  furnished  this  information.  We 
wish  some  one  would  start  the  importation 
of  Banana  Flourin  N.  V.  or  Philadelphia.  If 
not  subject  to  a  high  import  duty,  it  must  be 
a  cheap  food  as  it  is  highly  nutritious. 


OUR    SEVENTIETH    ANNIVERSARY. 

FAmestly  praying  that  jour  strength  may 

hold  out  many  years  enabling   you  to   work 

for  the  good  cause.     I  am  sincerly  yours, — 

Eliia    R.    Sbeir.— With    inch     good    earnest 

1897 


friends  praying  for  us  all  over  the  country  as 
our  letters  indicate,  we  may  reasonably  hope 
for  a  continuance  of  our  strength  but  as  the 
3ist  of  this  month  will  be  our  70th  birthday, 
we  are  reminded  that  the  usual  span  of  life, 
three  score  and  ten,  has  been  attained.  It  is 
our  desire  to  establish  Food,  Houe  ft  Garden 
on  a  sure  footing  of  10,000  subscribers  so 
that  wlien  we  are  called  away  it  can  be  con- 
tinued by  those  who  must  depend  on  their 
labor  for  support.  If  our  friends  throughout 
the  country  desire  to  commemorate  our  70th 
birthday  they  could  not  do  it  more  effectively 
than  by  sending;  four  subscriptions  at  25  cts. 
each,  as  a  means  of  relieving  us  of  all  anxiety 
as  to  the  success  and  continuance  of  this  pub- 
lication. We  are  fairly  entitled  to  retire  from 
this  labor  now,  but  if  our  subscribers  generally 
will  do  this,  we  shall  feel  it  our  duty  to  co'n. 
tinue  the  work  as  long  as  our  strength  and 
life  shall  continue.  With  10,000  subscribers 
we  could  obtain  advertising  enough  to  keep  up 
the  publication  in  greatly  improved  form.  We 
need  new  type  and  new  outfit  generally. 


THE  PINGREE  ALLOTMENT  SYSTEM. 
The  movement  commenced  by  Mayor 
Pingree  in  Detroit,  Michigan,  has  reached 
Philadelphia  and  Is  in  successful  operation. 
It  has  also  reached  England,  and  Queen  Vic- 
toria basset  the  example  by  offering  to  the 
council  of  Cowes,  Isle  of  Wight,  a  tract  of 
land  suitable  for  the  first  experiment  there. 
It  is  a  uiutual  benefit  and  should  not  be  done 
as  a  matter  of  charity,  but  as  a  wise  business 
arrangement  by  which  vacant  lots  are  im- 
proved and  instead  of  being  untidy,  become 
sources  of  health  and  objects  of  beauty. 
The  time  will  come  when  an  uncultivated 
vacant  tot  within  the  limits  of  a  city  of  any 
pretentions  will  be  adjudged  a  nuisance.  The 
production  of  vegetables  and  fruit  would  be 
likely  to  improve  the  public  health  as  well  as 
the  increased  cleanliness  und  improved  atmos- 
phere. Vice  President,  Anna  Leger  of  the 
Chicago  V.  S. '  is  secretary  of  a  Bure^iu  for  pro- 
viding allotments  for  the  unemployed.  We 
trust  all  VcgeUriiins  will  exert  their  influence 
in  this  direction. 


d  by  Google 


MENU    KOR  JUNE    COLLATION. 

le  Dtcoratlon  :    Field  dalalc*. 

Pmh  Chcrrlea. 


Orahan   BIkdIu.  Ftetich    Rolla. 

Strawberry  Float.  Lady  FLagen. 

Spring  Water. 

RECIPES. 

Prom  V»l  Q,  Zet. 

N»t  Saodwiclies. — Grind  aome  of  the  nuts 
so  fin«  as  to  make  a  paste  or  butter  ;  spread  on 
the  cut  biscuits,  as  you  would  dairy  butter  ; 
grind  the  balance  of  the  nutsjust  fine  enongh 
to  pack,  and  spread  them  also  on  the  sliced 
biscuits.  Season  both  spreads  to  taste  with 
saU,  French  mustard  or  horse  radish.  Pea- 
nnts,  black  walnuts,  butter  nuts,  chestnuts 
or  almonds  will  do. 

Strawberry  Float. — I  pt.  of  strawberries, 
2  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  pt.  of 
milk,  vanilla  to  flavor.  Crush  the  berries. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  very  stiff,  and  gently 
add  I  ^  cups  of  sugar,  then  gradually  add  the 
crushed  berries,  beating  well  all  the  while, 
until  all  is  a  stiff  pile  of  rosy  creani.  Pile  in 
the  center  of  a  glass  dish  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 

Custard  for  Float. — Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs 
well  with  }4  cup  of  sugar.  Heat  the  milk  to 
boiling,  add  to  the  eggs,  return  to  the  stove 
and  boil  again  until  Ittliickens.  Flavor  and 
set  on  ice  to  cool.  Pour  the  sauce  around  the 
berries  when  served,  or  serve  with  rich  sweet 
creani  instead  of  custard. 

From  the  Amfticai  Vrgclaiian    Cookery, 

Potato  Salad. — 4  boiled  potatoes  when  cold. 
4  stalks  of  celery,  Ji  of  an  onion,  4  sprigs  of 
parsley,  i  hard-boiled  egg,  small  pinch  of 
ctlery     seeds.     Cut  potatoes    and    cekry   in 


small  pieces.  Chop  onion  and  parsley  very 
fine,  mix  with  potatoes  and  celery,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  ta:<te,  add  pinch  of 
celery  seeds.  Cut  the  hard-boiled  e}!g  in 
pieces,  nnd  mix  all  well  together.  Make  a 
salad  dressing  and  pour  over  the  potatoes,  *c., 
and  set  to  cool.     Place  on  lettuce  leaves. 


AT     MEAL    TIME, 

Delivered    Before  the  Vegetarian 

Society  of  Philada,  on  May  i?th,  1897,  bv 

William  Canby  Ferris. 

hian  is  a  social  animal  and  it  is  not  simply 
a  love  of  the  good  things  which  he  finds  on 
the  table  that  makes  meal  time  so  attractive  to 
the  average  mam  It  is  true  that  the  healthy 
human  being,  whether  man  or  woman,  looks 
forward  with  keen  enjoyment  to  the  time  of 
giving  full  satisfoction  to  the  demands  of 
his  appetite:  especially  if  the  cook  is  known 
to  be  good  ;  but  we  must  also  remember  that 
meal  time  is  with  many,  the  chosen  season 
for  the  free  exchange  of  thought  and  this  is 
particularly  true  with  those  who  have  risen 
above  the  purely  animal  plains  of  thought  and 
action  and  who  look  forward  to  the  family 
meeting  around  the  table  more  because  of  the 
Social  and  Spiritual  enjoyment  which  they 
derive  from  it.    . 

This  is  particularly  true  of  all  Vegetarians, 
for  they  more  than  any  others  have  learned 
the  true  secret  of  how  to  enjoy  their  meals. 
While  many  gourmands  strive  to  enhance  the 
purely  animal  pleasures  of  the  table  by  pan- 
dering to  a  perverted  and  depraved  iippetite. 
Vegetarians  have  learned  the  better  way  of 
enjoying,  by  exercising  a  careful  control  over 
the  appetite.  The  joy  that  a  well  dressed  and 
bloated  gourmand  feels  in  swallowing  one  or 
June, 


dbyGoogIc 


pood.  Jlom^  a^d  ()arde9 


two  dozen  of  raw  oysters  is  akin  to  the^winish 
Kratification  displayed  by  the  hog  while  gob- 
bling up  his  mess.  The  joy  which  thetrne 
Vegetiwian  feels  when  he  sits  down  to  gratify 
his  keen  appetite  with  the  bestoffood  in  his 
reach,  and  with  his  appetite  strictly  under  the 
control  of  his  reason,  is  a  joy  worthy  in  every 
way  of  a  being  with  snch  godlike  powers  as 
man.  That  the  Vegetarian  has  not  only 
mncli  keener  enjoyment  and  more  of  it,  but 
his  enjoyment  leaves  behind  it  no  after  ill 
effects;  no  cloud  to  dull  bis  intellect,  no 
torments  of  dyspepsia:  no  fire  in  his  blood 
to  nrge  him  later  to  seek  further  excitement 
in  strong  drink  or  in  other  excesses  r  all 
these  are  the  effects  which  follow  indulgence 
in  stimulating  and  unnatural  foods. 

As  long  as  we  remain  in  our  bodies  so  long 
must  we  recognize  the  necessity  of  providing 
them  with  proper  food,  and  Nature  has  made 
this  a  pleasure  to  us  by  making  it  an  enjoy- 
ment to  eat.  It  should  be  the  constant  efibrt 
of  all  true  Vegetarians  to  guard  against  the 
perversions  of  this  sense  of  taste ;  to  make  the 
gathering  at  meal  time  an  occasion  of  social 
and  spiritual  enjoyment  as  luucli  as  a  time  for 
enjoying  food  that  is  prepared  in  a  refined, 
skilfnl  and  tasteful  manner.  This  task  must 
rest  upon  the  mistress  of  the  household  more 
than  any  one  else  and  it  is  in  her  power  to  call 
out  the  higher  and  better  nature  of  all  those 
who  sit  around  her  board  by  appealing  to  that 
nature  which  is  in  every  one ;  she  alone  can 
see  that  the  table  linen  is  pure  and  spotless  ; 
that  the  glasses  and  china  are  sparkling,  deli- 
cate and  tastefully  arranged,  that  flowers  are 
set  upon  the  board  ministering  to  the  love  of 
the  eye  for  the  beautiful  and  the  love  of  the 
sense  of  smell  for  delicate  perfume. 

The  mistress  can  do  much,  but  if  she  is 
confronted  by  a  constant  demand  for  food  that 
is  in  excess  of  all  natural  requirements,  she 
can  not  do  all ;  she  will  be  worn  out  in  body 
and  wearied  and  fretted  in  soul  by  the  con- 
stant effort  of  providing  three  meals  a  day 
when  two  would  be  better  for  every  one  con- 
cerned. The  physical  strain  of  washing 
dishes  three  times  a  day  for  la  targe  family  is 
1897 


more  than  many  Bien  realize,  and  it  is  my 
sincere  and  deliberate  conviction  that  most 
men  eat  three  meals  a  day  from  sheer  force  of 
habit  and  not  because  Nature  demands  them. 

Let  us  consider  this  question  of  the  uunibet 
of  meals  which  are  prepared  in  most  all  Amer- 
ican families,  three  meals  a  day  rain  or  shine, 
Sunday  or  week  day  :  it  would  indeed  make 
most  men  open  their  eyes  to  be  told  that 
breakfast  is  not  ready  and  wont  be  ready  un- 
til dinner  time,  and  that  then  both  meals  will 
be  taken  together  ;  but  as  a  matter  of  fact  it 
would  send  the  men  to  work  with  keener  and 
more  active  brains,  because  the  vital  forces 
would  not  he  taxed  to  digest  a  meal  for  which 
no  real  demand  existed  and  which  was  loaded 
into  the  stomach  from  mere  force  of  habit. 
It  would  save  an  immense  amount  of  useless 
drudgery  in  the  kitchen,  and  the  hearty  en- 
joyment of  dinner  would  more  than  make  up 
for  a  little  self-control  in  the  matter  of  eating 
no  breakfast. 

I  haye  had  personal  experience  in  this  mat- 
ter; during  the  last  winter  I  read  Dr.  Dewey's 
excellent  work  called  "  The  Tme  Science  of 
Living  or  the  New  Gospel  of  Health,"  I  had 
been  doing  much  ^mental  work  and  noticed 
that  my  head  suffered  from  my  mental  activ- 
ity. For  two  months  I  went  without  break- 
fast entirely,  and  walked  three  miles  to  my 
work :  1  found  myself  repaid  many  times  for 
my  self-control ;  my  general  health  improved ; 
my  brain  grew  clearer  and  my  mental  opera- 
tions under  better  control,  and  though  I 
confess  that  I  did  often  get  hungry,  the 
pleasure  I  realized  from  my  simple  dinner  of 
bread  and  fruit  made  up  for  it  all.  I  have 
not  kept  up  the  good  practice  as  1  should  have 
done  simply  because  of  the  comment  it  called 
forth  from  those  who  imagined  I  was  starving 
myself. 

Tliere  is  one  rule  so  plain  and  simple  that  it 
would  seem  that  every  one  should  know  it 
and  put  it  into  practice  ;  this  Golden  Rule 
is  simply:  "Eat  Only  Whkn  Hungry." 
There  is  no  rule  of  our  Ijeing  that  is  violated 
more  frequenlly  by  most  men  ihan  this :  na- 
ture has  given  every  man  a  guide  which  is 
"3 


d  by  Google 


pood,  jlom^  apd  ()ardeQ 


infallible  as  that  Inner  Light  that  lightetb 
every  ma.a  who  coineth  into  the  world,"  but 
alas  it  is  often  perverted  and  what  most  men 
call  appetite  is  simply  a  habit  of  eating  at  a 
certain  time  and  an  expectation  of  taking  food 
at  that  time.  It  is  certain  that  strength 
comes  from  perfect  assimilation  of  food  and 
this  is  too  often  interfered  with  by  never 
allowiag  the  digestive  apparatns  a  chance  to 
rest.  It  is  very  important  that  we  cat  only 
the  proper  kind  of  food ;  but  it  is  equally 
important  that  we  eat  no  food  at  all  until  we 
have  a  healthy  and  vigorous  appetite  for  food. 
How  mauy  of  you  have  ever  tried  the  experi- 
meutof  fasting  forone  whole  day  just  to  find 
out  what  a  healthy,  normal  hunger  is?  And 
■  yet  Tanner  fasted  forty  days  and  Griscom 
fasted  forty-five  days  without  taking  a  mor- 
sel of  food.  Over  feeding  kills  more  people 
than  battles. 

Just  give  Nature  a  chance  to  get  rid  of 
some  of  the  useless  material  that  you  have 
put  in  your  body,  by  ceasing  to  take  food 
altogether  for  just  one  day;  you  will  be  de- 
lighted and  surprised  at  the  result. 

As  to  the  amount  of  food  no  person  can  lay 
down  any  invariable  rule  by  which  all  men 
can  be  guided  ;  experience  is  the  only  tnie 
guide.  He  has  not  made  the  very  best  use 
of  his  faculties  who  has  not  found  by  actual 
test,  that  certain  kinds  of  food  and  cerUin 
wiiys  and  times  for  eating  it,  are  better  than 
what  is  the  customary  way,  The  testimony 
of  Lewis  Coniaro,  who  lived  for  fifty  years  on 
twelve  ounces  of  solid  food  a  day  declared 
that  his  health  and  enjoyment  of  life  in- 
creased in  proportion  as  he  confined  himself 
to  a  plain  diet  and  very  little  of  it. 

Anna  Kingsford,  M.  D.  lestified  that  a  diet 
of  fruits,  nuts,  and  vegetables,  without  ani- 
mal products  or  meat  of  any  kind,  is  the  ideal 
food  of  man,  and  gives  the  best  re.sults  men- 
tally, morally  and  physically. 

It  is  certain  that  when  an  individual  has 
entered  upon  the  straight  and  narrow  path  of 
Spiritual  attainment,  certain  sources  of  vitality 
and  strength  are  freely  opened  to  him  which 
remain  closed  to  those  who  have  never  learned 

124 


the  lessons  of  self-control  and  v.'lio  conse- 
quently remain  on  lower  planes  of  thought 
and  action.  Members  of  the  Ralston  Health 
Club  here,  know  that  I  am  only  telling  the 
simple  truth  when  I  affirm  that  when  we 
place  ourselves  in  a  receptive  condition  we 
can  absorb  power,  vitality,  health  and  life 
from  the  inexhaustible  storehouses  which  lie 
all  around  ns  in  the  earth  and  air.  It  may 
not  enable  us  to  do  entirely  without  food,  bat 
for  those  who  have  discovered  this  source  of 
snpplyand  who  have  learned  to  utilize  it,  the 
question  of  diet  becomes  a  very  simple  one. 
I  know  a  high  priestess  of  the  Temple  of 
the  Magi  who  confines  herself  to  a  half  a 
teacupful  of  Graiinla  twice  a  day  with  a  few 
dates  or  other  fruits  ;  and  she  enjoys  the  best 
of  health  and  never  suffers  from  hunger  or 
from  that  kind  of  headache  which  comes  from 
deranged  digestion. 

These  are  some  of  the  rewards  which  come 
to  those  who  enter  upon  the  paths  of  Spiritual 
Attainment,  but  there  are  others,  and  simplic- 
ity and  self-control  in  eating  and  drinking 
are  indispensable  conditions  to  theii  realiza- 
tion. 

VEGETARIAN  SOAP. 
Mr.  Silliman  of  Philadelphia,  a  member  of 
the  V.  S.  A.,  and  the  T.  S.,  has  the  whole- 
sale agency  of  White  Cloud  Soap,  which  he 
assures  us  is  made  of  pure  olive,  cocoa-nut, 
palm  and  cotton-seed  oil.  It  is  the  whitest 
soap  we  have  seen  and  is  very  soft  and  re- 
freshing to  the  skin,  Mr.  S.  has  offered  to 
supply  the  V.  S.  A.  with  this  soap  on  such 
terms  as  the  profits  of  sale  will  innure  tothe 
Society.  See  advt.  on  cover.  By  mail  a  cake 
is  rather  high,  on  account  of  postage,  but 
when  ordered  by  $10.00  boxes  cost  is  quite 
reasonable  for  so  pure  and  delicate  a  toilet 
soap. 

GOOSEBERRY  SEEDS. 
Recent  convurls  to  reformed  diet  who  sufier 
from  the  constipating  tendency  of  the  past 
regime,  will  be  helped  by  swallowing  fresh 
seeds  of  gooseberries.  These  gently,  yet  effec- 
tually stimulate  the  peristaltic  motion  of  fairly 
active  bowels  without  drawback. — R,  Hecker. 
June, 


d  by  Google 


I  ^-^^^^  3|lossom  ^otitiy^ 


GROWING. 

How  all  thlDgs  grow  In  the  iwce;  ipriDg  motber  I 
All  (hinici  grow  bCRutiful  together : 
The  clouds  glow  soft,  the  skies  grow  blue, 
Thegraw  grows  gnen,  (he  earth  grows  new. 
The  children  dear,  gniw  hale  and  strong. 
Andlhedays,  the  vnydayi  grow  long. 

Questionings   by  thb  Editor. 

And  why.  oh  why  should  we  (his  beauty  spoil 
By  killing  birds  that  sing  aud  beasm  (hat  toil  ? 
Vhy  should  we  mar  this  ennh  so  bright  and  fair 
By  staining  l(  with  blood  ?    Why  Gil  (he  air 
With  crlw  of  dying  be»siB,  and  tniMfiig  laynbn, 
So  sweetly  playing  'round  L;ieir  molher  dams? 


ilBughler 


rei; 


Why  should  we  t>oaal  of  Spring's  deUghtfu!  chann 

When  we  go  forth  to  take  of  Spring  onr  Hll  t 
Why  should  wenotall   creatures  lo'.'e  lo  see 

When  we  were  kindly  formed  of  milder  clay? 
Why  not  strive  (o  make  this  world  oroum 
TtfiD  with  loWng  kindness.  fruKs  and  flowers? 

Enjoy  the  sunshine  and  the  blessed  air. 

HOW  FOOD  AFFECTS  OUR  TREATMENT 
OF  ANIMALS 

Dear  Apple  Blossoms. — A  vegetarian  diet 
will  help  you  very  iiiucli  in  regard  to  treating 
household  pets  with  kindness.  You  will  find 
that  you  are  naturally  better  tempered  than 
flesh-eating  children  are;  also  that  it  will 
come  easier  to  you  to  be  loving  attd  tender 
with  animals,  than  it  doe.s  with  t/iem,  as  they 
are  usually  fond  of  teasing  them  for  their  own 
selfish  pleasure. 

All  pet  animals,  birds,  etc-  will  respond 
very  quickly  to  aSectionate  treatment.  Tlie 
following  incident  from  Our  Dumb  Animals 
for  May  will  surely  interest  you  greatly  ; 

"As  Mr.  Nied linger  was  approaching  the 
place  at  which  he  was  spending  the  summer 
he  heard  cries  of  distress.  At  the  corner  of 
the  bam  he  found  a  colt  wedged  between  the 
siding  and  a  post  which  ,sup|)orted  the  ends 
of  the  wires  of  a  hiirbed  wire  fence. 

"The  barbs  of  the  wires  of  the  fence  were 
hurting  the  colt  cruelly.  But  the  cries  which 
Mr.  N.  heard  were  not  from  the  colt.  They 
came  from  the  colt's  mother,  a  beHUtiful  brood 
mare,  who  stoiid  hy  with.  exi*-nded  utck  and 
wide  ^yts  and  quivering  body,  expressing  her 
1897. 


pain,  her  solicitude,  and  cryinjr  out  for  the 
help  which  she  could  not  give  herself. 

"  Mr.  N.  hurriedly  removed  the  staples  which 
secured  the  wires  to  the  post,  the  wires 
dropped  and  the  colt  went  free.  The  mother, 
with  every  demonstration  of  joy  at  the  re- 
lease of  her  offspring,  rushed  up  to  it,  licked 
it,  put  her  chin  over  it,  and  fondled  it  with 
low  sounds.  Pleased  that  he  had  given  the 
mortier  so  much  pleasure  as  well  as  that  he 
had  saved  the  colt.  Mr.  N.  started  along  the 
path  to  the  house,  but  he  had  not  gone  far 
when  he  was  aware  of  hoof-falls  behind  him. 
He  looked  over  hisshoulder.  Therewasthc 
mother.  He  reached  out  his  hand.  She 
licked  it  with  low  whinnies  of  thankfulness. 
She  followed  him  clear  to  the  house,  and  still 
stood  on  the  lawn  thanking  him  for  what  he 
had  done  in  the  interest  of  one  whose  mother 
she  was,  and  whom  she  loved  with  all  a 
mother's  love. — Charles  Josi ah  Adams," 

This  trne  story  will  show  you  how  much  a 
horse  can  love  you  if  you  are  kind  to  it.  The 
same  is  true  al>out  all  other  animals.  A  veg- 
etarian child,  whose  taste  has  not  been 
perverted  or  corrupted  by  meat,  will  be  ever  so 
much  sweeter  in  dispasition  and  general 
character  than  one  who  has  become  accustom- 
ed to  eat  meat. 

Think  how  cruel  it  is  to  take  a  calf  away 
from  its  mother,  and  then  carry  it  to  the 
bulchei,  to  be  cruelly  killed,  and  then  eaten 
by  those  who  call  themselves  Christians? 
"The  cattle  on  a  thousand  hills  are  mine," 
So  says  God  Himself.  VVliatate  wedoing  with 
God's  cattle  then,  when  we  stand  by  and  .';ee 
them  slaughtered,  as  if  their  lives  were  of  no 
account.  Dear  Apple  Blossoms,  do  not  be 
deceived;  do  not  let  any  selfish  arguments 
discourage  you.  Some  people  say  that  animals 
were  created  for  food,  and  will  even  quote 
Bihle  passages  that  seem  to  support  their 
afisertions.  Let  us  see  :  "And  God  .said, 
Behold  I  have  given  you  every  heth  bearing 
seed,  which  is  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth, 
and  ever}-  tree,  in  the  which  is  the  fruil  of  a 
tree  yieldinj;  st-ed  ;  loyoii  il  sAaU  be  for  vieal 
[o>-/«-<f|."— Walter  S  Weller. 

'25 


d  by  Google 


irULCHING     BF.TTER  THAN  HILUNG. 

The  hubit  of  hilling  corn  and  otlief  vejte- 
tableK  is  a  conimon  vay  t"  avoid  wi-eding 
closie  to  the  plant  by  liof-ing-  weeds  and  heap- 
ing upon  the  plants  thereby  nllowinj;  rain  to 
run  off  and  allow  the  plants  to  dry  Up  in 
lands  which  are  naturally  dry.  A  convenient 
way  is  to  lea^'e  the  ground  in  its  original 
flat  stale,  and  lay  a  coat  of  grass  round 
the  young  plants,  about  a  inches  thick. 
This  is  sure  death  to  weeds  and  affords  c 
clean  carpet  for  the  cook  to  walk  up^n.  iu 
search  of  vegetables.  In  this  way  tomatoes, 
beans,  corn  and  potatoes  may  be  started  and 
need  no  weeding  for  the  whole  season. — 
Alfred  H,  Howe,  149th  St  &  Trinity  Ave., 
New  York. 

VEGRTARIAN    HORTICULTURE. 

Horticulturists  are  sloivly  karning  to  apply 
vegetarian  principles  to  the  ftediug  of  their 
crops.  Tlie  finest  grapes  » re  those  raised  011 
mineral  and  A-egetable  fenilizers  while  the 
coarsest  are  th est-  raised  on  a''iiu;il  ferlilizt-js 
and  the.-ianie  principle  will  npply  to  the  rais- 
ing of  all  other  fruits  and  vejielables.  The 
time  is  coming  when  there  will  be  as  much 
care  in  selecting  plant  food  as  in  selecting 
food  for  man  and  animals.  The  principle  is 
established  that  the  quality  of  the  product  is 
affected  by  the  quality  of  the  fertilizer  used. 
Let  us  grow  only  the  best  of  everything. 
FRUIT  FOR    THE  FAMILY. 

No  matter  how  far  from  market  a  farmer 
may  be,  he  can  giow  a  patch  of  strawberries 
and  be  sure  ofa  marketat  home.  It  is  sston- 
ishing  how  much  fruit  of  al!  kinds  can  be 
eaten  by  a  small  family  when  the  snpplv  is 
unstinted.  There  are  few  ndghborhoods 
whtre  those  who  bejiin  by  growin;^  a  supply 
of  strawberries  for  home  use  will  not  find  a 
market  springing   around   ih'-iu    from  neigh- 


bors, who  keep  on  in  the  old  ruts  bccanse 
they  think  ttaev  haven't  time  tin  attend  to 
such  small  affairs  as  the  culture  of  berries. 
They  are  small  in  'slefc-  but  more  bushels  of 
strawberries  can  be  grown  per  acre  than  any 
kind  of  grain,  and  the  fruits  may  be  sold 
cheap  and  yet  bring  more  tliau  grain  profits. 
—Newspaper  Culling. 

ONLY  MINER";^  manure  FOR 
VINEYARDS. 
The  liability  of  grape  vines  to  mildew  and 
rot  on  fruit  and  leaves  is  very  greatly  in- 
creased by  feeding  ttie  vines  heavily  on 
coarse,  nitrogenous  manures.  These,  in 
their  decay,  furnish  gcod  field  for  propaga- 
ting disease  germs  in  the  soil,  and  the  large 
amount  of  nitrogen  they  furnish  in  niid- 
sunimer  makes  a  sapy;y,  succulent  growth  of 
leaf  and  new  wood  that  is  very  subject  to 
attacks  of  disease  germs  Wliile  it  is  true 
that  spraying  with  Bordeaux  mixture  and 
and  other  fungicides  will  check  these  disea.ses, 
it  is  Slili  better  to  ferlillic  the  vines  only  with 
potasli  and  phosphafe  manures,  which  will 
not  stimulate  the  vines  unduly,  and  which 
will  keep  them  healthy.  It  is  not  tri-e  that 
a  great  amount  of  nitrrtgtnous  fertilily  in  any 
form  is  needed  to  produce  the  best  grapes. 
With  plenty  of  mineral  fertilizer,  chiefly 
potash,  the  grape  bnnehes  will  lie  earlier  and 
better  noeiied,  wliile  the  wood  growth,  to  be 
cut  away  in  fall  pruning,  will  not  be  so  over 
luxuriant.  French  vinters  never  manure 
with  stable  manure.  All  the  vine  receives 
is  the  ash  from  the  yearly  pninings,  whieh 
are  regularly  burned  after  drying  and  sprin- 
kled around  the  vines.  Manure  affects  the 
quality  of  the  wine.  If  it  ever  Ijecomes  ne- 
cessary to  apply  nitrogenous  fertilizers  to 
gripevines,  the  grapes  are  eaten. — American 
Cultivator. 


Jn 


1S97 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


db,  Google 


NEW    BOOKS.  CRIPPLED  CHILDREN'S  REST,   Merchantvili 


iecilcd.  It  bBhutdbDok  of  Hygienic  treal- 
icnt  In  ttae  cure  of  apedfied  dlMue*, 
rithout  dnigm,  Ji.oo  V.  8.  A.  3">  Chertont 
«.,  Philadelphia. 

THB  TROK  SCIBNCEOF  LIVING. 

The  pnhUcatlon  of  the  abore  book  by 
IdnrdBpokei  Dewey,  M.  D.  mattuaDew 
ra  In  the  art  of  Ilvliig  well.  We  refer  to 
It.  Ferria'a  Basay  in  our  Hohe  Depart- 
[BHt  p.  Ill,  fot*  teatlmonlal  In  [^ard  to 
His.  the  eflect  of  which  we  have  no  doubt 
>lll  be  highly  beneficial  to  those  who  will 
■ref^lly  stBdy  and  follow  the  directioaa 
iven.  Tbe  latroductlon  by  Dr.  Fentecoit 
•  ■  atroogeudonnncntof  tbli  "NewGoa- 
el  of  Health."  ta.isby  mall  fromV.  SA. 
VBGBTABUN  JUBILEB    LIBRARY. 

THE  JUBILEE  of  VegeUrianitm  In 
tnglud,  1B9T  hM  giTcn  ri»e  to  the  puMic*- 
lon  ofa  Library  of  choice  Vegetariu 
.ileralon  in  conTenlent  Tolnmea.  Edited 
>y  Charles  W.    Forward.    The   fint  lOlume 


hey  are  loaplring    of  enthnifasm   for    the  ^^  produce  them.       But    althongh  it  may  TO   OUR  FRIENDS. 

[Dodcaoae.    The  second  volume  lithe  Ra-  help,  «o  long  ■=  people  live  eipeoaliely  when  We    are   gTHteful     to    our     frienda  Scott 

raan  Tt>  NaTcas  by  J.  P.  Newton.    These  ^„p^  limple  are   is  abundsnt,    there   will  Montgomery,  Havlland  elal    in  N.     V.    foi 

x»k>iD    cloth  will   lie    aupplied    at  jo  ct«.  |„  j,^^   tlma.    The   new   time  can  only  be  thdrsaciubsubscriptionsfbr  F,.  R.  a  G.  and 

:ach  by  mail  from  the  V.  8.  A.  attained  by  a  new  life  of  pure  and  whole,  to  all  others  who  so  kindly  remembered  oi 

The  third  nlume     olthis  series  is  Plain  some  living.  on  onr  Toth  birthday.    As  there  are     man) 

'.Mng  and  High     Tkinkiug  by  Rev.  Prof.  Tj,g  SYNOPSIS  OP  THE  VEG.  SYSTEM,  yet  to  hear  from  we  cannot  yet  claim  lojMt 

[ohn  S.    B.   Mayor  U.  A.  of  whom    an   et  1  f«i  that  the  hope  of  the  world  Is  through    circulation^ 

leaded  notice  and  portrait   appears  in    this  vegeUriauism  wxA  1  want  some  slips  to  p  ' 

ihoDldbe  re«l  by  the   clergy  ol    the  U.  S.    ,[„   gnj  telling.— Mrs.  N.  K.  Arnold,  Supt.     rfig^  ihttmM 
tnd  our  Vegeiartan    friends  by    pnsenting    of  Purity    Dept.  of  the  KloHda  W.  C.  T  n.,    X*   print  your  name's: 
lot    to     their    respective     rainialeni   would    naytona,  PU.-We  supply  the  want  above  in.     ^°?I?'h '"7"°''  !"? 
place  the  subject  in  a  desirable  light  before    aicaied  and  hrgin  with  the  "Synopsis  of  the    ^S°loU  ™  umple    » 
them.  Vegetarian  System"  which  we  k11  at  15  c.  a    magBzlnes,  fashion  Jou] 

BALVADORN,  hundred   or  ii.ao  '  "'"*  '' 

Mn.  Palrehild  Allen,  so  well  known  as  Chestnut  St..  Phili 
the  Kdltor  of  AHlivtni/cliom  hssjust  pub-  A  NEW  Kl 

llshed  in  BouTenlr  style,  her  eiquisite  ^f^^^g  ^g  another 
poem:  "The  White  Prince  Salvadom  ■  consists  of  lecturei 
Tsle  of  the  Twentieth  Century"  weli  illi 

b^ted    with  pictures  of  the  Arab   steed, 

Mn.     Allen     snd    her    charming  dsughti 

Maud     B.    Fairehild.    The   piticeeds  of  t 

boat  devoted  to     the  an  11  vivisection  cam 

Price  probably  15  cts. 

HEAVEN    ON    EARTH. 
Rev.  Geo.   Savory   of    the    Order    of  the 

Onoge  Blossom   publishes  a  very  eitlsordl- 

nsiy  book     porporting    to     be    experience 

relsltd  to  him  by  a  Chicago   contractor   in 

whidi  by  the  eaerclse  of  connubial   affection 

*  lite  of  misery  was    changed     into  one  of 

hipploess  and  joy.    We  hope  this  experience 

1>  DM  BO  uncommon  »s  Is  supposed.    The 

Book  is  suitable  for  the  privste  perusal  of 

.arried   people   and   may  do   much   goodj        ^„^o„,„„fl|„  ^rtet^ii'.nd  de^pti™ 

THE  NEW  TIME.  ^n^tl^l31d'a!°sinn^'tor'>ecu^"^l 

This  is  New  Ofeaiieit!  (populist.)  published  '°pJ,^nti'^e™^hnnS[li'  Mimn'S'SS)!  ™ 

br  Kerr  a  Co.,  Chicago,  under  the  new  spealalaatlOBln  tb« 
a.™.    „.o=.yesr.    .ti.ahand««emag-  SCIENTIFIC      AMERICAN, 

IprogrOB.     I^ower*   Adams  besntlfnlL^Jllun rated,   lanwt  dconl  -- 


of  HeiUth   as    Isid    d. 

own 

in   Dr.  1 

)t  entirely  > 

Dr.  Deweya 

methods 

the   book 

iiHrri 

V.  S.  A  ,  jio 

Chestnut 

St.. 

Pblla. 

risge  Secrets  told   to  the    Rev,    George  W. 

Ssvory  at  the  World's   hair.     HcdlcaT   and 

-      -  ind     uncomproBiBinit   in 

evils.     ■■pHiliiHil  Syall 


Vegetarian  Society  Mill 


josntlfnlLv  IllustraWd.   iL__.  ^ 

ade    during  election    and  MUNN    &    CO.,  Ri'ng-    S?nd  for  dc^iplf^c'lSulaVlv. 

ihould  Ttr-  the  Urlff^iilt  does  3^1  Brandwny,  Mew  imrk,  jigCbestnut  St.,  Philadelphia. 


REV.  JOHN  E.  B.  MAYOR,  M.  A. 
Presidbnt  of  Vegetarian  Society,  England. 


d  by  Google 


pood.  )1om^  apd  (iardei^i 


Vol.  I,  No.  9,  New   Series. 


Whole  Number,  Si. 


PROF.  JOHN  E.  B.  MAYOR,  M.  A. 


IN  presenting  a  half-tone  of  Prof.  Mayor, 
we  bring  before  our  readers  one  of  the 
most  etnijient  scbolan  iu  England,  who 
isalHoPresidentof  the  Vegetarian  Society,  the 
Jnbilee  of  which  is  being  celebrated  in  Eng- 
land. 

From  a  recent  publication,  vol.  in  of  the 
jTibilee  Library,  containing  a  selection  of 
the  Addresses  and  Sermons  of  Prof.  Mayor, 
edited  by  Charles  W.  Forward,  we  learn  that 
the  Rev.  John  Eyton  Bickersteth  Mayor  was 
bom  Jan.  35tli,  1825.  That  at  the  age  of 
seven  he  was  a  scholar  of  Christ's  Hospital, 
and  that  his  passion  for*  literature  has  been 
turned  to  good  account,  being  now  recognized 
as  one  of  the  first  Latin  scholars  of  the  day. 

His  interest  in  dietetic  matters  began  early 
in  life,  his  first  experiments  in  this  subject 
being  stimulated  by  a  desire  to  carry  out  the 
Lenten  fast  more  consistently  than  is  usually 
done.  Subsequently  reading  the  writings  of 
Dr.  T.  L.  Nichols  so  entirely  satisfied  him 
of  the  resnlts  of  his  own  experience  thiit  he 
mtered  with  enthusiasm  the  list  of  advocates 
of  ftugatity  and  temperance  in  food  as  well  as 

He  was  President  of  the  Food  Reform  Socie- 
ty in  the  early  eighties  and  was  elected  to  his 
present  position  as  President  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society  when  Prof.  Newman  resigned  that 
position. 

Possessing  a  remarkably  keen  memory,  a 
facile  pen,  a  clear  enunciation  and  easy  speech, 
the  present  Senior  Fellow  of  St.  John's  College, 
Cambridge,  has  proved  an  important  acquisi- 
tion to  the  Vegetarian  cause. 

The  volume  now  published  called  Plain 
Living  and  High  Thinking  is  a  capital  com- 
peDdiniii  of  the  Vegetarian  Philosophy  from 
the  high   standpoint  of  a  scholar  and  cultiva- 

1897 


ted  Christian  clergyman  of  the  English 
Episcopii]  Church  and  the  book  should  be  in 
the  family  of  all  who  aspire  to  live  the  true 
life.  It  would  do  immense  gocd  if  placed  in 
in  the  hands  of  every  clergyman  in  America 
and  we  wish  the  V,  S.  A.  were  supplied  with 
funds  for  this  purpose.  How  many  less  im- 
portant matters  uc  aided  even  by  vegetarians  ! 

From  1863  to  1867,  Prof.  Mayor  was  Libra- 
rian of  the  University  of  Cambridge  and  in 
1863  edited  the  Cambridge  Jountal. 

The  first  sennon  in  this  book  was  delivered 
in  our  native  county  in  England,  Tendring. 
Essex,  in  Lent,  1883,  from  the  text :  "  Take 
DO  thought  wliat  ye  shall  eat"  and  shows 
that  it  was  not  in  the  original  designed  to 
teach  indifference  but  that  words  "take 
thought' '  had  in  the  evolution  of  the  English 
language  changed  their  meaning  since  King 
James's  version  was  written,  and  that  the 
meaning  then  was  "to  be  not  anxious,"  "be 
not  fearful"  for  SOd  will  provide  for  you  as 
he  does  for  the  birds  of  the  air.  He  shows 
that  anxiety  is  caused  by  ignorance  as  to  the 
best  food  as  in  feet  the  plainest,  simplest  and 
best  food  is  the  most  common  and  obtained 
with    the    least   outlay   of  labor  and  money. 

Therefore  to  carry  out  the  spirit  of  the  text 
be  not  anxious,  one  must  adopt  the  principle 
of  plain  living.  If  the  reverse  were  the  case ; 
if  high  living,  as  it  isnsually  called,  were  the 
best,  then  the  poor  would  be  sickly  and 
the  rich  healthy,  whilst  it  is  well  known  the 
rich  suffer  sickness  more  than  the  poor.  But 
if  both  rich  and  poor  would  follow  the  simple 
but  scholarly  teaching  of  this  vohime  the  poor 
would,  in  most  cases  cease  to  be  poor,  while 
the  rich  would  find  health  and  enjoymentin 
the  simplest  and  most  exquisite  pleasures  of 
the  table. 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  Jlom^  3t)i  (Jardeijl 


There  are  eight  addresses  and  sermons  in 
the  volume  and  tbey  are  all  in  evidence  that 
high  scholarship  and  strong,  common  sense 
are  compatible  with  each  other. 


Sbc(m«>  Edition,  Extended. 


SUMMARY. 

OF 

THE  VEGETARIAN  SYSTEM. 
By  Hbnsv  S.  Cutbb. 
The  Principle. — That  man,  asaphysical  intel- 
lectual, and  moral  being,  becomes  best  devel- 
oped in  all  his  faculties  when  subsisting  upon 
thedirect  productions  of  the  Vegetable  King- 
dom. 

The  /Reasons  for  entertaining  that  principle 
vary  with  different  persons.  They  aie  chiefly 
based — 

I. — On  the  Anatomy  of  Man,  as  described 
by  LiNN£us,  CuviBR,  OwBN,  and  other  emi- 
nent scientists,  who  express  their  conviction 
that  man  was  designed  to  live  on  the  fruits  of 
the  earth. 

II. — On  Physiology,  which  shows  that  the 
healthiest  and  least  laborious  action  of  the  di- 
gestive organs,  the  purest  blood,  and  the  most 
substantial  muscle  and  bone,  are  produced 
upon  this  diet. 

III. — On  Chemistry,  it  beingan  undisputed 
bet  that  flesh  food  contains  no  nutriment 
which  cannot  be  obtained  in  its  purest  form 
from  grains,  pulse,  fruits,  and  vegetables. 

IV. — On  Economy,  which  is  every  way  pro- 
moted by  a  system  providing  more  sustenance 
for  a  ceifJ  from  iarinaceous  food  than  for  a 
dime  from  the  flesh  of  animals. 

V. — On  Agriculture,  which  shows  that  the 
cultivation  of  land  provides  healthy  employ- 
ment for  a  much  greater  number  of  persons 
than  land  devoted  to  pasture,  and  thiit  a  culti- 
vated acre  will  yield  from  three  to  four  times 
as  much  food  as  an  acre  used  for  grazing  pur- 
poses. 

VI. — On  Psychoi:x>gy,  which  shows  that 
this  system  is  favorable  to  the  subjection  of 
the  passions  to  the  higher  moral  and  intellec- 
tual faculties. 


vii. — On  .rEsTHETics,  which  seek  to  cherish 
and  promote  all  that  is  sublime  and  beautiful 
on  the  earth,  to  dispence  with  the  slaughter- 
house, and  to  liberate  from  degrading  occupa- 
tion the  butcher,  the  drover,  and  the  cook. 

VIII. — On  Huh ANENE8S,  which  is  founded 
upon  the  irrefragable  principles  of  justice  and 
compassion — universal  justice  and  universal 
compassion — the  two  principles  most  essential 
in  any  system  of  ethics  worthy  of  the  name. 

IX. — On  Appointment  of  man's  food  at  the 
Creation  :  "And  Godsaid,  Behold,  I  have  given 
you  every  herb  bearing  seed,  which  is  upon 
the  faceof  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree,  in  ihe 
which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding  seed;  to 
you  it  shall  be  for  meat." — Genesis  i.  29. 

X. — On  History,  which  shows  that  wher- 
ever it  has  been  adopted  it  has  proved  benefi- 
cial to  the  human  race. 

XI. — On  the  Experience  and  Testimony 
of  great  and  good  men,  in  ancient,  modem, 
and  present  times. 

xu. — On  the  Individoai,  Conviction,  of 
its  trutb,  which  becomes  more  powerful  in 
proportion  as  it  is  adhered  to  in  practice. 

XIII. — On  Biology,  rs  the  most  practical 
and  successful  teachers  of  this  science  insist 
on  abstinence  from  flesh  and  subsistance  on 
fruits  as  promotive  of  clearness  of  perception 
and  that  development  of  the  mental  Acuities 
which  increases  the  power  of  one  mind  to 
direct  and  control  the  will  of  another. 

XIV. — On  Moral  Purity  as  flesheating 
tends  to  stimulate  human  passion  and  dimin- 
ishes the  power  of  the  highest  faculties  to 
control  the  current  of  thought. 

XV. — On  THE  SENSBsof  taste,  smelt,  touch- 
ing, seeing  and  hearing  as  all  these  are 
ofiended  by  the  flavor,  odor,  feel  and  sight  of 
a  dead  body  and  the  piteous  cries  of  creatures 
before    and    during  the  process  of   slaughter. 

XVI — On  Common  Sense  as  it  is  well  known 
that  nearly  all  animals  are  in  a  state  of 
disease  when  slaughtered,  in  consequence 
of  the  cruel  and  unnatural  conditions  in 
which  they  are  placed  previous  to  being 
slaughtered. 

July, 


d  by  Google 


i  pocxl.  ^om^  a^d  (Jarde^ 


XVII. — On  thk  Post  Mortem  Examika- 
noN  OP  Anihaxs  whicb  frequently  shows 
the  existence  of  tubercles  ia  the  lun^s,  and 
liver  and  a  large  preponderance  of  uric  acid  in 
the  fluids  of  even  healthy  animals,  this  being 
the  chief  canse  of  rheamatisui  so  prevalent 
among  flesh  eaters. 

xviu. — On  Tbmphrance,  as  it  has  been 
dearly  proved  by  experience  that  flesh  and 
the  condiments  used  to  disguise  its  flavor, 
tend  to  create  a  thirst  for  other  stimulants 
■ad  a  resort  to  intoxicating  liquors. 

From  I  to  xii  of  the  above  were  published 
by  the  Vegetarian  Society,  England,  in  1849 
and  now  after  nearly  50  years  we  find  them 
still  circulated  as  a  tract  by  that  Society.  We 
have  added  six  more  items  to  bring  the  sum- 
mary up  to  date. 


Vegetarian  I  do  not  remember  a  single  day  of 
sickness.  I  eat  two  meals  a  day  only,  and 
wholly  vegetable  and  fruit.  I  think  12  oza. 
of  food  is  all  the  human  system  requires  and 
more  than  that  produces  disease  in  the  body. 
— Samuel  F.  Dike,  D.  D.,  Bath,   Maine. 


DANGER  OF  BACKSUDING. 
It  is  a  wrong  practice  for  a  Vegetarian  to 
indulge  in  meat  especially  when  sick.  Many 
physicians  insist  on  their  patients  forgoing 
meat  when  sick,  though  th^'  have  been  in  the 
habit  of  meat  eating.  A  flesh  eater  can  adopt 
tbeVegetist's  diet  without  incurring  risks,  but 
a  Vegetist  cannot  adopt  the  flesh  eater's  diet 
without  danger,  showing  conclusively  that 
there  is  "death  in  the  flesh  pot."— Geo.  W, 
Blown,  N.  Danville,  N.  H. 


REV.  SAMOEL  F.  DIKE,  D.  D.    AT  82. 

It  is  now  seventeen  years  since  I  have  eaten 
a  piece  a  meat  as  large  as  my  thumb-nail, 
■nd  I  have  not  the  least  desire  for  it.  I  hope 
under  the  good  providence  of  the  Lord,  I 
never  shall  eat  any  more. 

I  am  very  sure  they  never  eat  any  meat 
in  heaven  for  it  is  written:  "Man  did 
eat  angels'  food  he  did  eat  of  the  com  of 
heaven,"  Here  is  v^etable  not  "meat" 
as  the  sellers  denominate  it,  as  if  it  were  the 
only  snbstantial  food,  bat  that  term  as  used  in 
the  Sacred  Scriptures  means  simply  food. 

Nothing  could  tempt  me  to  eat  flesh  or  meat 
again,  I  do  not  believe  the  Lord  ever  ate  any. 
I  do  not  remember  that  the  Gospels  refer  to 
his  eating  any. 

I  am  now  82  years  old  and  since  I  became  a 


A  FORESTER    VEGETARIAN. 

I  am  a  strict  Vegetarian.  I  do  not  believe 
in  killing  animals  only  where  absolutely 
necessary  for  self  protection,  but  never  for 
human  food. 

I  am  living  in  the  forests  but  do  not  even 
own  a  gun ,  and  have  no  need  of  one. 

Deers  are  my  pets.  There  is  room  for  them 
in  the  woods  and  mountains  on  the  main 
land.  All  the  protection  I  need  ia  a  good 
fence  to  keep  them  out  of  my  fields  and  or- 
chard. 

I  have  not  so  far  read  anything  on  vegeta- 
rianism, bnt  was  converted  by  some  friends. 
(W.  L.  Forrester,  Ballard,  Wash.)  I  would 
tike  to  provide  myself  with  reading  matter  on 
the  subject.  I  spread  this  new  gospel  all  I 
can.— John  Hulsman,  Lopez  Island,  San  Juan 
Co.,  Wash. 


THE  CRIPPLED   CHILDREN'S  REST. 

The  Crippled  Children's  Rest  of  which  we 
present  two  illustrations,  has  been  founded  by 
our  friend,  John  B.  Wood  and  he  is  anxious  to 
have  the  most  healthfiil  conditions  provided 
for  the  cbildren.  He  desires  several  Vegeta- 
rian Society  Mills  to  provide  employment 
and  prepare  healthful  food  for  these  unfortu- 
nates. The  V.  S.  A.  will  furnish  these  mills 
if  its  friends  will  send  funds  to  pay  the  cost 
of  them.  These  children  may  thus  be  tanght 
the  value  of  Graham  Bread  and  thus  the  foun- 
dation laid  for  their  becoming  Apple  Blos- 
sous.  Will  our  friends  contribute  towards 
this  worthy  object?  We  will  also  receive  and 
apply  anyclothingor  otherthings  useful  for 
this  true  work  of  charity. 

GAINED  IN  HEALTH  AND  STRENGTH. 
I  have  touched  no  flesh  for  13  months  and 
have  gained  in   health  and  strength  wonder- 
fully.—J.  P.  Haley.  Somerset,  Ky. 

I3.» 


d  by  Google 


P  pood,  flom^  apd  (Jardep 


THE  CAUSE  OF  GOUT. 

The  doctors   now  are  finding  out 
Eatlns  Otsb  !■  tbc  cnoM  of  gont. 


A    SOURCE  OF    GREAT  JOY. 
I  can  truly  say  Vegetarian  ism  is  a  source  ol 
great  joy  lo  me. — Mr.  L.  Ravick,   55  Wall  St., 
Boston,  Mass. 


FORTY  YEARS'  EXPERIENCE. 
After  40  years  or  nearly  entire  abstinence 
from  flesli  meats,  the  entire  disuse  of  butter, 
salt,  vin^ar,  spices  and  all  condiments  and 
only  water  for  drink.  I  see  more  than  ever  the 
beauty  and  the  blessing  of  a  pure  and  simple 
dietary,  of  eating  to  live-  instead  of  living  to 
eat,  as  most  of  those  around  us  seem  to  do. 
Therefore  t  feel  like  increasing  my  efforts  to 
bring  these  truths  before  the  people  and  help 
on  a  reform  that  will  do  so  much  to  make  the 
wortd  better.— J.  P.  Knowles,  Smyrna,  N.  Y, 


A  DILIGENT  WORKER  IN  THE  CAUSE. 
My  practice  amongst  the  sick  is  to  use 
anything  but  to  give  them  drugs  and  this 
gives  me  a  world  of  work  the  medicine 
doctor  knows  nothing  about.  I  have  only 
taken  up  the  Vegetarian  idea  of  late.  In  fact 
I  may  say  P. ,  H.  &  G.  has  had  as  much  to  do 
about  my  abstaining  from  meat  as  any  or  all 
other  causes  combined.  This  alone  has  saved 
me  many  headaches  in  the  past  few  years. 
I  can  talk  and  prescribe  to  my  patients,  and 
fight  for  your  good  cause,  but  yon  mnst  fur- 
nish me  with  the  material  to  fight  with. — E. 
Amelia  TeA.  M.  D  ,  graduate  of  Woman's 
Medical  Collegeof  Penn'a,  Fredonia,  Chautan- 
qua  Co.,  N.  Y. 


THE  EMERGENCY  RATION. 
The  Pudlif  Ledger,  (Pbila.)  of  June  8  states 
"  that  some  time  ago  a  detacbiuetit  of  the 
army  was  detailed  to  test  an  emergency  ration 
and  nearly  starved  while  doing  so.  That  style 
of  food  was  very  properly  discontinued.  Re- 
cently, a  similar  test  was,  made  with  a  new 
emergency  ration,  and  the  results  were  better. 
The  ration  consisted  of  eight  ounces  of  hard 
bread,  five  of  beans,   two  of  pea  meal,  one  of 

134 


coffee,  a  quarter  once  of  tobacco  and  the  usual 
condiments.  No  meat  was  given.  During  a  ten 
days' trial,  the  men  travelled  21  miles  a  day, 
lost  an  average  of  three  pounds  each  in  weight, 
but  gained  an  average  of  forty  pounds  each  in 
strength.  There  seem  to  be  great  economic 
possibilities  in  this  test,  and  it  may  be  com- 
mended to  the  consideration  of  civilians  as 
well  as  soldiers.  It  is  very .  cheap  living,  but 
seems  to  produce  excellent  results."  The  first 
experiment,  which  failed,  was  we  understand, 
on  the  basis  of  a  mixed  diet  in  which  canned 
and  potted  fiesh  was  a  prominent  feature. 

CHRISTIANITY   AND    VEGETARIAN  I TY. 

That  article  in  Feb.  issue  of  F.,  H.  &  G. 
about  the  Lord's  Supper  exactly  speaks  my 
mind,  and  friend  Clnbb  might  have  gone  a 
little  further  and  stated  that  the  Kingdom  of 
Heaven  on  Earth  promised  by  the  Nazarene, 
was  nothing  more  and  nothing  less  than  a 
Vegetarian  brotherhood.  His  having  been 
an  Essene  before  bis  entering  upon  his 
public  career  had  made  him  familiar  with  this 
mode  of  living,  and  its  happy  effects  in  every 
respect  on  all  human  relations  in  life.     "    * 

Dr.  Nagel,  a  prominent  German  Vegetarian, 
now  across  the  Line  and  Jordan,  has  among 
many  other  falsifications  and  wrong  transla- 
tions thrown  light  upon  this  passage :  The 
Latin  text  in  the  Vulgate  reads  like  this : 
Quid  quid  in  macellovenditur,  ediie,  nikil  propter 
(onsdeiUiam  discriminantes.  Now  the  transla- 
tors have  weakened  that  down  and  have 
diluted  the  enormity  as  best  they  conld,  and 
rendered  it  this  way:  "Whatsoever  is  sold 
in  the  shambles,  that  eat,  asking  no  questions 
for  conscience  sake."  Just  take  that  comma 
after  edile  in  the  Latin  text  and  deposit  after 
the  next  word  nihil  and  the  whole  thing  ia 
changed  ashy  magic.  Itthenreads:  "What- 
soever is  sold  in  the  shambles,  eat  nothing 
thereof,"  minding  the  promptings  of  your 
conscience.  Now,  where  is  there  the  greater 
probability  of  genuineness  !  Let  every  one 
decide  for  himself  or  herself.  This  is  one 
instance,  how  many  more  of  similar  character 
might  be  found! — H.  S.,  Cedar  Vale,  Kansas. 

July 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  fiom^  apd  Qardep 


GOD'S    COVENANT    WITH     BEASTS. 

^ales  of  a   Discaursedeliverai  June  20th,  189^, 
ai  Christ  Chunh,  Park  Ave.,  Philadelphia. 

By  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb, 
Pastor  0/  said  Church. 

And  in  that  day  I  will  make  b  covenant 
with  them  with  the  beasta  pf  the  field  and 
with  the  fowls  of  heaven  and  with  the  creej>- 
iog  things  of  the  ground. — Hosea  3 — 18. 

A  covenant  in  the  ordinary  acceptation  of 
the  word  is  an  agreement  between  two  parties 
who  areequallyableby  natural  or  legal  ability 
to  stipulate  with  each  other  and  agree  on  terras 
of  action  unitedly  and  to  perform  their  mutual 
pledges.  But  in  case  of  a  covenant  with  two 
parties  wherein  the  one  is  stronger  tlian  the 
other  and  morecapable  of  performing  promises 
than  the  other  it  partakes  more  of  a  promise 
than  an  agreement  binding  on  both. 

This  covenant  made  wit^  the  beasts  of  the 
field,  the  fowls  of  heaven  and  with  the  creep- 
ing things  of  the  ground  seems  to  have  been  a 
promise  to  these  creatures  that  there  wontd 
be  a  time  when  the  incessant  war  carried  on 
against  them  should  cease,  for  it  is  further 
promised:  "I  will  break  the  bow  and  the 
sword  and  the  battle  out   of  the  earth." 

Now  if  we  understand  these  passages  in 
their  plain,  literal  sense  this  means  thecessa- 
tion  of  slaughter  for  it  is  immediately  followed 
with  the  declaration  :  "Will  make  them  to 
lie  down  in  safety. ' ' 

How  is  it  now  with  these  creatures  of  God's 
care?  They  are  evidently  subjects  of 
God's  solicitude,  but  under  the  camivorons 
or  diabolical  nature  which  has  been  developed 
in  man,  none  of  these  creatures  can  lie  dourn 
safety.  The  bow  and  the  sword  were  the 
instmments  of  warbre  used  at  the  time,  and 
they  have  been  superseded  by  the  gun  and  the 
axe  from  which  it  is  almost  impossible  for 
any  of  these  creatures  to  escape  a  cruel  and 
untimely  death,  or  the  most  intense  suffering 
which  is  worse  than  death. 

There  is,  however,  a  time  coming  when  man 
will  become  controlled  by  the  divine  will  and 
1897 


will  unite  with  the  Lord  in  carrying  out  his 
promises  of  kindness  and  mercy  to  all  crea- 
tures. 

This  unjustifiable  warfare  against  God's 
beautiful  creatures  of  heaven  and  earth  is  to 
be  stopped;  man  is  to  be  enlightened  and 
humanized  so  that  he  will  stop  it  of  bis  own 
free  will  and  choice. 

In  the  next  verse  the  promise  appears  to  be 
extended  to  man:  "And  I  will  betroth  thee 
unto  me  in  righteousness  and  in  judgment, 
and  in  loving  kindness  and  in  mercies."  So 
that  the  marriage  of  the  Lord  with  His  church 
and  people  is  evidently  closely  connected  with 
this  principle  of  mercy  towards  the  other 
creatures  of  God's  care.  How  can  God  betroth 
or  unite  the  church  with  himself  while  that 
chnrch  is  at  constant  enmity  and  warfare  with 
the  other  objects  of  God's  care  and  affection  ? 

This  unnatural  and  diabolical  warftire  must 
cease  before  the  marriageof  the  Lord  with  His 
church  can  be  effected. 

The  20th  verse  repeats  the  promise  of  be- 
trothal and  shows  that  it  shall  be  in  faithful- 
ness and  this  faithfulness  is  followed  with  the 
promise  "and  thou  shalt  know  the  Lord." 

To  know  the  Lord  is  to  understand  him  in 
his  humane  and  merciful  nature  as  he  is. 

The  zistverseextfinds  the  promise  that  "in 
that  day,"  that  is  when  man  shall  arrive  at 
the  state  of  obedience  here  indicated,  "I  will 
hearthe  heavens  and  they  shall  hearthe  earth." 
There  will  be  a  thorough  and  complete  har- 
mony and  understanding  between  the  heavens, 
the  interior,  divine  nature,  the  exalted  nature, 
and  the  earthly  nature.  Harmony  shall  pra- 
avail  when  war  shall  cease.  It  is  no  uae  cry- 
ing "peace,  peace  when  there  is  no  peace-" 
We  cannot  have  peace  and  continue  slaughter. 
They  are  oppositcs.  The  one  is  a  preventive 
of  the  other. 

The  23nd  verse:  continues  the  subject: 
"And  the  earth  shall  hear  the  com  and  the 
wine  and  the  oil  and  they  shall  hear  Jezreel." 

Com  represents  the  natural  good  of  truth 
and  for  the  earth  to  hear  the  com  is  for  it  to 
obey  the  truth  and  enjoy  it3  goodness.     Even 

135 


d  by  Google 


PI  pood.  ]iom^  aiyl  (jardepl 


in  its  literal  sense  corn  is  the  best  support  of 
man  and  well  takes  the  place  of  the  slaughtered 
beasts  against  whom  this  warfare  is  to  cease. 
Men  learn  to  appreciate  corn,  wheat,  oats  and 
maize  when  they  give  np  flesh  and  blood. 

Wine  represents  the  divine  truth  and  in  a 
natural  sense  the  juice  of  the  grape  is  an 
element  of  the  most  nourishing  character  for 
man  to  partake.  The  oil  is  representative  of 
the  celestial  principle.  So  for  man  to  hear 
the  corn  the  oil  and  wine  is  to  understand 
spiritual  and  nlestial  things  as  a  result  of 
ceasing  the  warfare  on  the  beasts  and  the 
consumption  of  their  flesh.  The  last  clause 
of  this  verse :  "  tliey  shall  hear  Jezreel"  is  the 
same  as  saying  they  shall  listen  to  tbe  new 
church  ofthe  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Jezreel  having 
that  signification. 

The  promise  in  the  23rd  verse  is  a  still  wider 
application  of  the  result  of  this  cessation  of 
the  war  on  the  animal  creation :  "  I  will  sow 
her  unto  me  in  the  earth:"  that  is  the  good 
seed  shall  be  sown  and  will  produce  the  happi- 
est results. 

"I  will  have  mercy  upon  her  that  had  not 
obtained  mercy."  The  church  cannot  receive 
what  it  will  not  practice..  We  cannot  enjoy 
mercy  ourselves  if  we  will  not  practice  it  on 
others. 

The  closing  promise  seems  to  cover  the 
whole  ground:  "I  will  say  to  them  that 
were  not  my  people  i  Thou  art  my  people ; 
and  they  shall  say  ' '  thou  art  my  God. ' ' 

Thus  we  seethe  ultimate  redemption  of  the 
world  is  to  be  accomplished  by  the  establish- 
ment of  the  hnmane  principles  of  loving  kind- 
ness towards  all  creatures  on  the  earth. 

This  is  the  covenant  promise  made  by  God 
towards  his  creatures,  human,  and  animal.  It 
may  have  and  has  a  still  deeper  and  more 
interior  meaning,  but  the  external,  logical 
meaning  is  not  invalidated  thereby. 

Is  not  the  vigorous  movement  in  Europe 
and  America  to  abolish  vivisection  and  other 
forms  of  cruelty  and  the  movement  to  abolish 
slaughter  an  indication  that  tbe  day  is  ap- 
proaching when  this  beautiful  prophecy  is  to 
be  fulfilled?    Should  not    enlightened    man, 

'36 


seeking  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy  co-operate 
in  thisf  Is  not  all  prophecy  also  instruction 
in  righteousness?  Is  not  the  divine  will  in- 
dicated by  these  promises?  Is  it  not  the 
church's  highest  privelege  to  co-operate  in  the 
fulfilment  of  God's  promises  to  all  living 
creatures?  Is  not  God's  promise  binding  on 
all  God's  servants  ? 

V.    S.    A.  MILL. 

I  have  received  the  mill.  I  am'well  pleased 

with  it.     I  have  it  set  up  at  a  friend's  house 

who  is  using  it. — H.J.  Marty,   Cleveland,  O. 

PERFKCTLY  SATISFIED. 

I    feel  perfectly  satisfied  with   the    change 

I  have  made  in  my  diet.     1  would  not  return 

to  the  flesh  pots  on  any  condition  whatever. 

—Sarah  Hall,  806  Venango  St.,  Phila. 

GROWTH  OF  DANIEL'S  BAND. 
Our  Daniel's  Band  is  growing  and  thriving, 
other  bands  are  being  organized  in  different 
parts  of  the  United  States,  and  we  hope  that 
many  may  be  led  to  vegetarian  principles 
through  its  influence.  There  is  a  growing 
interest  in  the  subject  of  Vegetarianism. 
Since  the  death  of  Dr.  Graham  the  cause  owes 
everything  to  you  for  maintaining  the  organ- 
ization and  thus  keeping  the  principles 
before  the  people.— J.  H.  Kellogg,  M.  D., 
Sanitarium,  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 

"WALKING  STEWART." 
Thomas  De  Pumcey  in  one  of  his  essays 
describes  the  noted  traveler  whom  be  knew 
and  who  was  so  famons  for  his  pedestrian 
efforts  in  and  about  London  that  he  became 
known  as  "Walking  Stewart,"  and  he  did  so 
much  walking  that  it  was  reported  and  be- 
lieved bymanythat  there  were  two  Walking 
Stewarts.  This  man  was  a  vegetarian.  I  find 
in  the  "  Philosophy  of  Sleep"  by  Robert 
Macnish,  LL.D.  published  iuEdinbnrg,  1850, 
this  statement :  "Mr.  Stewart  the  celebrated 
pedestrian  states  that  be  never  dreamed  when 
he  lived  exclusively  upon  vegetable  food. 
This  however,  may  not  hold  true  with  every 
one." — P.  J.  Reed,  710  Main  St.,  Kansas 
City,  Mo. 

July 


d  by  Google 


pood.  \\on\^  ai^d  (^rde^ 


pood,  ^om^  apd  (jardei} 


PHILADELPHIA,  JULY,     1897. 

81. 

RBV.    HENRY    a.   CLCBB,    Hdilor. 

One  antacrlptlon,  jocta.,  foiu  SubscrlpUoiu    fi.ao  ■ 

rew. 

Oar  remark  that  we  never  knew  a  Vegetari- 
an to  have  the  gont,  is  being  copied  into  the 
newspapers.  We  might  have  added  that  onr 
opportunities  for  observation  have  been  qnite 
extensive  during  the  past  sixty  years  both  in 
Europe  and  America. 


you   will  receive  an   ofBcial  report. — Ellis  M. 
Wilson,  144  St  Ann's  ave. ,  N.  Y.  City. 

THE  PHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  S'Y. 
The  June  meeting  was  highly  interesting 
and  adjourned  to  meet  by  invitation  at  .  the 
residence  of  Rev,  Henry  S.  Clubb  at  North- 
wood,  1023  Foulkrod  St.,Frankford.  Arrange- 
ments have  been  made  for  a  meeting  at 
Northwood  Park,  July  19th  at  3  p.  ni.  This 
is  near  said  residence.  There  will  be  a  free 
Vegetarian  Luncheon  served  at  6  o'clock  and 
another  meeting  at  8  p.  m.  The  principal 
officersof  the  New  York  V.  S.  have  promised 
to  be  present. 


We  have  recently  been  favored  with  a  week's 
visit  from  Dr.  Ellen  Goodell  Smith,  Dwight, 
Mass.,  and  were  glad  to  make  her  personal 
acquaintance.  Her  book  on  the  "Fat  of  the 
Land"  is  meeting  with  a  cordial  reception  and 
is  doing  much  to  enlighten  the  world  on  the 
tme  economy  of  life. 


The  Synopsis  which  appears  in  this  number 
has  been  electrotyped  in  4  pp  and  will  be 
supplied  by  mail  to  all  who  desire  to  circulate 
it  at  5  for  acts.  100  for  35  cts.  or  1000  for 
$1.00.  Our  friends  will  oblige  by  giving  it 
a  wide  circulation  as  it  will  be  just  the  size 
for  enclosing  in  a  No.  6^  envelope.  The 
first  edition  has  had  an  extensive  circulation 
in  England  and  for  50  years. 


We  a 


e  indebted  to  Rev.  E.  W.  Rice,  D.  D., 
Editor  in  Chief  of  S.  S.  Union  publications, 
for  the  copy  of  the  Leisure  Hour,  London, 
containing  Dr.  Schofield's  strong  article  on 
"FmitEaters."  Dr.  Rice  is  always  seeking 
an  opportunity  to  do  a  good  turn  when  he 
can.  If  onr  readers  would  each  send  four 
subscriptions  for  their  friends  we  could  en- 
large and  so  ptiblisb  such  articles  in  full. 

N.  V,  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

We   had  a  pleasant  meeting  Tuesday,  land 

Jnue,  and  therewere  very  many  kindly  things 

said  of  you  and  yonr  work  of  which  doubtless 

1897 


HOSPITAL  OF  ST.  FRANCIS. 
A  vigorous  effort  is  being  made  to  estab- 
lish a  hospital  on  Humanitarian  lines  where 
vivisection  of  animals  will  not  be  allowed. 
It  is  to  be  called  the  "Hospital  of  St.  Francis" 
and  located  South  of  London,  England,  in 
honor  of  the  Queen's  Jubilee.  The  circular 
does  not  say  it  is  in  honor  of  the  Vegetarian 
Jubilee,  but  we  presume  that  is  included.  The 
circular  is  not  explicit  as  to  whether  the  hos- 
pital ia  to  be  conducted  on  vegetarian  princi- 
ples so  we  are  not  in  position  to  press  its 
claims  in  this  respect.  The  Treasurer  is  at 
6  Southampton  St.,  London.  Prof.  Mayor  K 
Lady  Florence  Dixie  are  on  the  Pro.  Council. 


THE  JDBILEE  IN    ENGLAND. 

The  meetings  commemorative  of  the  50th 
anniversary  of  the  formation  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society,  England,  commenced  May  50th  and 
June  1st,  1897,  and  several  very  interesting 
Conferences  have  been  held  at  Ramsgate, 
Kent,  and  Northwood  Villa  where  the  Society 
was  formed,  was  visited.  By  a  happy  coinci- 
dence a  similar  meeting  in  Philadelphia  is 
held  at  Northwood  Park. 

The  International  Conference  will  be  held 
at  Rarasgate,  Sept.  13th  and  the  V.  S.  of 
America  is  invited  to  send  delegates.  If  any 
of  our  friends  in  this  country  will  be  in  Eng- 
land at  that  time,  we  shall  be  glad  to  have 
them  represent  the  Society  if  they  will  notify 
us  of  the  fact  in  time  to  get  credentials. 
"37 


d  by  Google 


ppood.  ^om^  apd  Qardei^ 


DR.    SCHOFIEI,D   ON   FRUIT  EATERS. 

Dr.  Alfred  Schofield  in  an  able  article  pub- 
lished in  The  Leisure  Hour,  (London,  Eng- 
land) gives  some  valuable  suggestions  worthy 
of  consideration  by  both  Vegetarians  and 
camivorans,  if  we  may  be  permitted  to  coin  a 
word,  as  we  hate  to  apply  the  term  "flesh- 
eaters"  to  persons  who  may  be  personal 
friends,  but  who  mysteriously  persist  in 
carnivorous  habits. 

Dr.  Schofield  dbabusias  the  minds  of  his 
readers  of  the  idea  that  vegetarians  subsist 
entirely  on  vegetables.  Also  that  Vegetarian- 
ism is  founded  solely  on  hygienic  considera- 
tions or  base  utilitarian  motives,  but  describes 
it  as  "A  lofty  humanitarian  movement,  and 
to  say  nothing  of  the  East,  dates  in  the  West 
from  the  time  of  Plutarch  and  probably  long 
before.  A  lai^e  element  of  sentiment,  and 
religious  sentiment  enters  into  its  composi- 
tion, so  that  it  is  a  cult  rather  more  than  a 
science.  The  chief  motive  in  Vegetarianism 
is  a  humane  one." 

What  is  Fruit? 

Then  the  Doctor  raises  the  question  what 
is  fruit?  for  he  seems  inclined  to  call  vege- 
tarians "fruit  eaters"  rather  than  vegetarians 
and  with  some  plausible  showing  for  his 
preference,  stating  the  ^road  view  of  Sir 
Risdom  Bennett,  that  seeds  are  really  fruits 
and  fruit  eaters  might  therefore  in  a  broad 
sense  include  those  who  eat  what  is  not  the 
flesh  of  animals.  He  might  have  said  even 
the  eggs  of  birds  are  in  a  sense  fruit,  covering, 
as  all  fruits  do  the  live  germ  and  supplying 
what  nature  has  provided  for  the  first  nour- 
ishment of  the  new  being.  In  this  sense  may 
not  milk  be  classified  with  fruit?  All  fruits 
in  the  restricted  sense  are  the  pulp  surround- 
ing the  seed.  A  kemal  of  wheat  has  been 
described  as  an  egg  and  with  equal  propriety 
an  egg  can  be  described  as  a  fruit  as  all  re- 
late to  the  supply  of  food  to  the  new  creature 
either  plant  or  bird.  In  this  sense  eggs  differ 
from  flesh  because  they  are  food  intended  for 
the  chicken  rather  than  the  chicken  itself. 
Flesh  is  not  properly  a  food. 

138 


Man  Naturally  a  Froit  Eater. 

Dr.  Schofield  states  truly  that  "All  evolu- 
tionists trace  than  from  the  frugivora  and  not 
from  the  camivora  and  quotes  Prof.  Schlick- 
eysen  as  saying  Man  is  by  nature  purely 
frugivorous  and  Lord  Monboddo  to  the  same 
efiect,  with  capacity  however  to  become  an 
animal  of  prey,  but  this  is  an  acquired,  not  a 
natural  habit. 
Fruit   Eating  for  the  Working   Classes. 

Then  in  reference  to  the  economy  of  the 
subject  the  Doctor  quotes  House  of  Commoos 
reports  on  Diets  1879:  One  penny  worth  of 
split  peas  equivalent  to  nine  pennyworth  of 
flesh  meat.  Three  pennyworth  of  oatmeal 
contains  the  nitrogenous  value  of  three 
pounds  of  flesh  meat  costing  half  a  crown, 
about  60  cents.  He  wishes  good  speed  to  all 
apostles  of  fruit  eating  among  the  poor. 

Dr.     SCHOFIKLD'S  CONCLDSION. 

The  conclusion  he  arrives  at  is  that  strict 
"Fruit  Eaters"  will  thrive  best  under  more 
natural  conditions  of  life  than  are  enjoyed  by 
most  people,  but  that  fortified  with  milk, 
butter  and  eggs  the  vegetable  albumen  can 
be  supplied  in  the  necessary  proportions  by 
fruit  eating,  in  many  cases  with  great  advan- 
tage, and  in  some  cases  health  can  be  restored 
by  this  simple  and  sensible  means.  And 
if  brain  workers  do  not  become  Fruit  Eaters 
they  can  benefit  themselves  by  moderating 
their  flesh-eating,  by  selecting  fish,  fowl  and 
game.  Thus  he  says  "we  can  greatly  profit 
by  the  truths  connected  with  Fruit  Eating 
even  if  we  do  not  follow  the  sentimental  ar- 
gument, or  pledge  ourselves  to  the  sweet  and 
simple  diet  of  apples  and  brown  bread." 
This  is  true  but  the  real  delights  of  Fruit 
Eating  can  never  be  known  by  those  who 
thus  indulge  even  in  a  moderate  degree,  in 
food  the  chief  piquancy  of  which  is  derived 
from  the  uric  acid  it  contains. 

Dr.  Schofieldspeakshighly  of  the  efiect  and 
digestibility  of  ripe  apples,  pears,  grapes 
and  raisins  but  advises  against  eating  the 
seeds.  He  gives  a  preference  to  ripe  juicy 
pears  for  digestibility  over  apples. 

July. 


d  by  Google 


wild    Rlackberria.         Hncklebcnica.         Baainu. 
Caramel  Cereal  Coffee. 
■lUpbert?    Viaegar. 

The  above  menu  is  for  an  old  &shiotted 
picnic  in  the  woods.  The  potatoes  and  corn 
to  be  roasted  in  the  hot  ashes  ofa  camp  fire 
and  the  meal  eaten  from  a  table  cloth  spread 
on  the  green  grass.  A  very  pleasing  effect 
can  be  given  by  strewing  the  snowy  white 
cloth  with  fresh  fern  leaves. 

Peaant  and  Cheese  Sandwiches. — Shell  and 
skin  sufBcient  fresh-roasted  peanuts  to  make 
a  capful  when  rolled  or  ground.  Sprinkle 
them  lightly  with  salt  and  mix  with  cream 
cheese.  Spread  this  on  squares  of  thin  bread. 
Thewe  sandwiches  are  particularly  nice  served 
with  lettuce  salad. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. — Mash  raspberries 
thoroughly  and  place  in  a  Stone  jar.  Cover 
well  with  cider  vinegar.  Stand  in  the  hot 
Kun  all  day,  or  two  mornings;  then  all  night 
in  a  cool  place.  Stir  occasionally ;  strain  and 
put  as  many  raspberries  in  the  jar  as  you 
■trained  out;  pour  the  same  vinegar  over 
them,  mash  well,  and  again  stand  in  the  hot 
snn.  Strain  i^aiu ;  measure  the  juice,  and 
allow  I  pt,  of  water  to  each  quart  of  juice; 
stir  well,  again  measure,  and  to  each  quart 
allow   4  ponnds  of  sugar. 

PnuB  Ptaclieal  t^rgtUnaw  Coolety. 

Cheese  Straws. — Sift  one  cupful  of  flour, 
fi  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  a  dash  of 
ca>-enne   pepper,  and  salt  thoroughly.     Then 


work  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  H  of 
a  cnpfnl  of  grated  cheese  and  mix  to  a  soft 
dough  with  milk.  Roll  out  lightly  on  a 
floured  board,  cot  in  strips  the  length  of  a 
pencil,  also  make  some  small  riugs.  Bake  in 
a  hot  oven  until  delicate  brown.  Put  sticks 
through  one  or  two  of  the  rings.  Nice  to 
8er\e  with  salads,  or  for  lunch  boxes. 

Egg  Plant  Balls. — Prepare  as  for  baked 
egg  plant ;  (peel  and  cat  in  pieces)  roll  a 
tablespoonful  into  round  balls  in  the  palms 
of  the  hands,  flatten  them,  pour  beaten  egg 
over  them  to  moisten  both  sides,  turn  each  in 
a  plate  of  powdered  crackers,  fry  them  brown 
in  boiling  greese,  and  serve  tbem  on  a  hot 
shallow  dish. 

From  Tit  Amtrican  Kitchttt  Magatint. 

Buns. — Mix  together  i  tablespoon  butter, 
X  cup  sugar,  %  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  scalded 
milk,  %  to  I  yeast  cake  (according  to  time), 
I  pt.  flour.  Let  ristf  till  double  in  bulk.  Add 
%  cup  sugar  mixed  with  %  teaspoon  spice, 
V  cup  Iruit  and  nearly  i  pt.  flour.  Knead 
well,  let  rise  again,  shape,  put  in  pans,  let 
rise  and  bake.  Omitting  the  fruit  and  adding 
one  egg  the  same  dough  may  be  used  for 
raised  doughnuts. 

FOOD,    PURE    AND   SIMPLE. 

The  kind  and  quality  of  food  that  is  used 
is  evidenced  by  the  degree  of  mentality  ex- 
pressed by  a  people  or  an  individual.  Show 
me  the  person  and  it  is  easy  to  designate  the 
class  of  food  he  is  in  the  habit  of  utilizing. 
But  I  consider  it  of  equally  great  importance 
that  we  use  only  wholesome  and  nutritious 
foods  as  well  as  pure,  vegetable  foods.  All 
vegetable  foods  in  their  simple  form  are  emi> 
netitly  suitable  for  the  sustenance  of  the 
human   organism. — Miss  Elsie  C.  Smith. 

139 


d  by  Google 


Ipoodl.  |1om^  apd  (flrdzm 


CHEMICALLY  SPEAKING. 

Now  between  the  two  which  is  the  greater 
evil  the  distillery  or  the  bntcher's  shop  and 
slaughter-house  f 

The  animal  takes  the  life  force  from  the 
grain  (the  spirit  of  the  grain)  and  uses  it  for 
his  benefit,  the  distiller  robs  the  grain  of  the 
same  element  and  between  the  Distiller  and 
the  Butcher  they  put  ilpoo  the  market  what 
would  be  equivalent  to  the- whole  grain,  and 
neither  can  be  utilized  by-  the  human  body. 
It  is  my  firm  belief  that  so  much  meat  eating 
is  the  cause  of  so  much  dram  drinking.  Take 
and  tritnrate  the  animal  from  head  to  foot  and 
eat  entire,  you  do  not  get  half  of  the  potent 
force,  that  is  in  the  grain  that  he  eats.  Flesh- 
meat  has  the  same  materials  aa  the  grains  but 
who  prefers  a  shoddy  "garment"  to  one  of 
all  woolP— Paul  Diet. 

THE     VEGETARIAN    SOCIETY     MILL. 

I  ordered  one  of  your  mills  in  Feb.  and 
have  had  it  in  constant  use  in  my  family  ever 
since.  I  could  not  do  without  it.  1  find  the 
sieves  unnecessary  and  I  am  in  hearty  agree- 
ment with  you  that  it  is  conducive  to  health 
to  eat  bran  and  all  witti  onr  wheat.  We  are 
all  very  fond  of  pea-nnt  butter  and  the  mill 
makes  it  to  perfection.  I  am  constantly  find- 
ing new  possibilities  in  the  mill, — Rev.  Elmer 
F.  Krause,  Leecbburg,  Armstrong  Co.,  Pa. 

It  is  true  to  make  ordinary  Graham  flour 
sieves  are  unnecessary,  but  we  have  found  a 
superior  flour  can  be  produced  by  running  the 
wheat  through  the  tn'iW  coarseijy  &ts{,  sieving 
out  the  fine  flour  and  then  running  the  coarse 
part  sieved  out  through  with  the  mill  set 
much  closer ;  then  sieving  again  and  regrind- 
ing  the  bran  sieved  out.  This  being  again 
-sieved  leaves    but  little   bran    which  can   be 

■  either  roasted  for  coflee  or  ground  once  more. 

■  The  whole  result  is  then  mixed  together  when 
a  fine  and  really  whole  wheat  Graham  is  the 
result,  free  from  the  irritating  efiect  com- 
plained of  by  many  as  the  fault  of  the  common 
Graham  flour  and  containing  all  the  valuable 
properties  of  the  bran  of  which  the  so-called 
"whole  wheat  flour"  is  partially  deprived  by 
the  efibrt  to  remove  the  "outer  cuticle."     We 


would  send  a  sample  of  this  truly  whole  wheat 
Graham  flour  to  anyone  who  will  send  stamps 
for  postage. 

A  FAMILY  GRIST  MILL. 

I  advocate  a  return  to  simpler  methods  of 
diet,  and  on  New  Year's  as  1  went  to  call  on 
my  good  friend  V.  P.  Smith  of  iijoKedzie 
Ave,  I  found  him  engaged  in  a  very  primitive 
method  of  cleaning,  wheat;  a  stiff  breeze  was 
blowing  and  Mr.  Smith  poured  the  wheat  out 
of  a  bag  held  a  few  feet  over  a  box  so  that  the 
wind  would  blow  all  chaff  and  dust  away  from 
it  as  it  fell.  It  reminded  me  of  the  old.  old. 
method  but  it  was  effective,  and  I  was  invited 
in  to  see  the  wheat  put  in  the  hopper  of  a  hand 
grinding  mill;  proud  of  a  chance  to  ahow  my 
muscle  I  took  my  turn  at  the  crank  and  saw 
with  delight,  that  the  flour  I  was  making  was 
a  soft,  rich,  creamy,  color  just  a  little  shaded 
with  gray.  It  was  flour  made  from  the  whole 
wheat  just  aa  Nature  made  it  and  in  my  opin- 
ion it  was  all  the  better  for  having  oj/thc 
outside  hull  of  the  wheat  ground  with  it. 

I  was  naturally  curious  to  know  what  kind 
of  bread  such  flour  would  make;  so  I  persuad- 
ed Prof.  Anderson  to  examine  a  sample  and  he 
was  so  much  pleased  with  it  that  he  ordered 
some  of  Mr.  Smith  at  once :  for  the  Professor 
is  an  ardent  advocate  of  a  natural  diet,  and  he 
not  only  teaches  the  true  and  natural  method 
of  living;  he  practices  it  himself;  and  many 
a  poor  chronic  invalid,  has  found  health,  by 
following  his  methods  as  taught  by  the  College 
of  which  he  is  Principal. 

But  the  gems,  the  gems,  Ah,  how  can  I  do 
justiceto  them,  as  they  came  from  the  skilful 
bands  of  Mrs.  Anderson?  Mrs.  Anderson 
made  them  and  this  is  how  she  did  it ;  it  is 
ell  as  simple  as  putting  on  an  old  slipper. 
One  pound  of  flour:  one  pound  of  water,  a 
little  baking  powder  {?)  and  a  hot  gem  pan 
greased  with  cocoannt  butter.  Bake  twenty 
minutes.  They  were  delicious.  Mr.  Smith 
can  furnish  flour  made  in  just  that  way  at  3 
cents  per  pound  ;  cheaper  than  you  can  grind 
it  yourself.  Send  him  an  order  and  try  the 
recipe. — William  Canby  Ferris,  1507  Masonic 
Temple,  Chicago. 

July 


d  by  Google 


DISCRIMINATING     RELATIVE    TO 

FERTILIZERS. 
Your  latest  issue  properly  testified  against 
the  use  of  nitrogenous  manurial  matter  to 
plHnts  not  adapted  to  such.  Certain  great 
fiimilies  of  plants  have  diversified  appetites; 
and,  unless  these  be  gratified,  the  result  is 
adveise.  It  is  safe  to  follow  the  guidance  of 
diemistry  in  fertilizing  trees  and  long  lived 
vines.  Careful  examination  of  the  wood  and 
fruit  shows  what  substances  they  mostly  con- 
Trees  and  hardwood-stem  fruiting  vines 
differ  from  cereals  and  roots  not  so  much  in 
the  food  required,  as  in  circumstance  of  con- 
dition. They  are  set  into  the  soil  to  stay  for 
years,  and  the  consumption  of  certain  ele- 
ments is  to  be  gradual,  but  constant.  Hence 
it  is  judicious  to  generously  supply  the  spe- 
cific aliment  they  require,  and  to  trust  to 
soil  decomposition  for  those  elements  of 
which  the  structure  needs  bpt  a  trace. 

The  [oundeT  of  the  Boston /our»al  of  Ckem- 
atry,  who  had  an  experiment  farm  near 
Haverhill,  Mass,  says:  "  Near  2  years  ago  I 
prepared  a  grape-border  snfGciently  large 
for  30  vines  and  arranged  in  strict  accordance 
with  the  chemical  structure  of  the  vine  and 
fruit  Lime,  phosphoric  acid  and  potash,  pre- 
dominate in  these.  Therefore,  to  meet  the 
first  want :  mortar  from  the  walls  of  an  old 
building  was  used  1  for  the  second :  well 
rotted  bonednst ;  for  the  third  :  ashes.  But 
little  animal  excreta  were  added.  Decayed 
soda  supplied  the  needed  faumus.  Entertain- 
ing the  idea  that  it  is  better  not  to  make  a 
homogeneous  mixture  of  border  materials, 
they  were  arranged  in  very  thin  layers;  first 
of  soil,  then  bone,  next  soil  with  sand,  then 
Mhea,    soil  and  sand   again,  next  lime.  The 


strata  constituted  a  mere  sprinkling  with  due 
regard  to  just  quantity  of  each. 

The  bed  was  not  disturbed  with  the  shovel 
after  said  completion.  It  seemed  reasonable 
to  assume  that  the  roots  would  not  need  to 
travel  so  far  for  food  in  the  early  stages  of 
growth  ;  and  that,  extending  as  this  supply 
failed,  they  would  meet  another  constant  one 
of  aliment.  A  kind  of  vegetable  instinct 
evidently  controls  the  feeders  of  plants,  and 
enough  push  out  to  secure  each  distinct  ele- 
ment in  exact  proportion  to  its  wants.  The 
less  the  distance  they  travel,  the  less  the 
vital  force  spent  in  urging  onward  the  nutri- 
ent principle." 

The  rest  of  this  communication  recites  the 
outcome  of  the  scientific  process  as  to  the 
production  of  healthy  canes  and  of  fine  grapes. 
— R.  Hecker.  Phil  a.  June  la,  1897. 

SILICA     RENDERED    AVAILABLE    BY 
AMMONIA. 

The  Rev.  S.  Smith  of  Lois-Weedon,  Eng- 
and,  has  practically  demonstrated  a  problem 
of  interest  to  Hygienic  farmers  and  truckers 
who  prefer  to  abstain  from  using  much,  if  any 
animal  excreta.  He  has  materialized  what 
Daubeney,  of  France,  and  Liebig  and  Mechi 
of  England  have  speculatively  indicated  :  that 
our  earth  is  fhll  of  passive  treasures  which 
become  active  and  profitable  by  deep  cultiva- 
tion and  frequent  stirring,  preceded  by  drain- 
age, where  necessary.  By  thus  bringing 
atmospherical  and  palpable  (terrestrial)  ele- 
ments in  contact,  profitable  results  ensue. 
He  tames  crude  substrata.  The  hardest  part 
of  this  globe  is  silica,  but  strong  ammonia 
conquers,  dissolves,  it.  For  cereals  at  least 
this  is  vital,  because  the  glass-coating  on  the 
straw  is  a  solution  of  silica.  This  is  essential 
to  the  vitality  and  circulation. — R.  Hecker. 
141 


d  by  Google 


the  barnyard  convention. 
By    Walter  S.    Weller. 

One  day,  the  inhabitants  of  a  large  barn- 
yard decided  to  liold  a  convention,  at  which 
the  grievances  of  all  might  be  discussed. 
They  elected  Roarus  .Bull  president,  who 
called  the  meeting  to  order. 

"Who  is  the  first  one  with  a  complaint?" 
he  asked. 

"I  ought  to  come  first,"  said  a  sad-looking 
cow.  "They  took  away  my  calf,  and  I  have 
not  seen  itsirce." 

"Do  you  know  whatbecameofit?"  asked 
the  president. 

"  1  heard  them  say  something  about  the 
butchers' :  and  I'm  pretly  sure  my  darling 
baby  is  dead." 

"It  is  a  shameful  thing,"  said  President 
Bull,  "that  men  cannot  be  satisfied  with 
fruits,  cereals  and  vegetables,  without  taking 
the  life  of  helpless  and  defenseless  animals." 

"Thafsso!"  "That's  afact!"  "That's 
right!"     came  from  diSerent    parts    of  the 

"  But  what  are  we  to  do  with  this  case 
right  here  ?  demanded  President  Bull.  "  Here 
is  Mrs.  Jersey,  mourning  the  untimely  and 
cruel  death  of  her  baby." 

"  T  don't  see  as  we  can  do  anything  about 
it,"  said  the  mother.  We  are  perfectly  help. 
less  ;  what  can  we  do  f 

"  Well,  111  tell  you  what  I'd  do,  if  I  were 
in  your  place.  Kick  over  the  pail  of  milk 
the  next  time  he  milks  you,"  advised  Mr. 
Bull ;  and  if  he  abuses  you,  or  swears  at  yoo, 
chase  him  out  of  the  yard,     Next !  " 

"I  wish  to  complain  about  the  check-rein," 
said  a  sleek,  glossy  horse,  whose  name  was 
Victor.  "I  think  our  master  should  abolish 
it :  for  it  hurts  my  neck  to  have  it  stretched 
up  so  high." 

"I  advise  yon  to  make  your  master  under- 
stand, in  the  best  way  yoa  can,  that  you  will 
not  haveiton,"  said  the  president,  "Is  there 
anything  else  wrong?"  ^, 

■Yes.  there  is!"  exclaimed  Victor,  with 
considerable  vigor.  "  My  tail  may  be  cut  off, 
because  it  is    '  so  English,  you  know.'     My 


master's  pretty  Hftle  daughter  does  not  want 
it  done;  and,  as  she  is  the  only  child,  and  a 
great  pet,  I  have  some  hopes  that  I  may  not 
lose  it." 

"  Good  for  her,"  said  the  president,  approv- 
ingly.    That  will  probably  saveyou.     Next !" 

"Iprotest,"  said  Mr.  Tnikey,  "against  our 
ruthless  and  cruel  slaughter  at  Thanksgiving 
time.  If  allowed  to  live  we  should  have  some- 
thing to  be  thankiul  for." 

"The common  custom  of  eating  turkeys  at 
Thanksgiving  and  other  holidays,"  said  Pres- 
ident Bull,  "is  only  deserving  of  the  severest 
and  sharpest  condemnation,  but  we  can  do 
nothing  about  ifKS  long  as  the  taste  for  tur- 
key remains.  Onr  only  hope  is  in  the  Apple 
Blossom  Society.  When  these  little  ones 
grow  up,  if  they  are  true  to  their  Vegetarian 
principles,  we  will  have  no  more  turkeys  for 
Thanksgiving. 

"I  have  a  similar  complaint  to  Mrs.  Jer- 
sey's," said  Mrs.  Sow.  "Men  insist  on 
taking  us  off  to  the  butcher's  and  there  we  are 
killed,  and  our  flesh  eaten.  And  I  cannot 
tell  when  my  own  turn  will  come." 

"When  you're  fat  enough,  I  presume," 
said  the  president.  "  I  heard  only  a  few  days 
^o,  that  our  master  has  been  going  to  Vege- 
tarian meetings ;  and  he  may  become  a 
vegetarian  in  good  earnest,  and  if  he  does, 
all  our  troubles  will  be  ended. ' ' 

A  great  cheer  rang  out  upon  the  air  as 
President  Bull  made  this  announcement.  A 
donkey  turned  a  somersault,  and  then  laid  on 
his  back  and  "  haw- hawed"  till  he  was 
hoarse.  Victor  danced  a  "four-step."  remark- 
able for  its  originality.  Mrs.  Sow  and  one 
of  her  children  jumped  upon  their  hind  legs 
and  danced  a  two-step.  In  the  midst  of  the 
general  rejoicing,  in  the  ho|)e  that  their  mas- 
ter would  soon  be  a  good  vegetariun,  the 
president  announced  the  convention  adjourned. 
AN  EAB.lv   BREAKFAST 

Franklin  Mills  Co.,  Lockport,  N.  Y.  kindly 
furnished  the  engraving  on  opposite  page. 
They  supply  wheatlet  and  whole  wheat  flour 
of  high  grade  and  superior  quality.  Our  Dr. 
Lovell  always  bu^of  them. 

July,   1S97 


d  by  Google 


The  Early  Bkbakpast. 


CRIPPLED  CHILDREN'S  REST,  Merchantvili.H.  N.  J. 


idlBMaBCesrtticuw  or>  home,  Johnar  la  panliied  la  both  body  and  legs  ai 
.  ucounl  or  bit  UDUllifiahle  nctlTilta,  which  here  have  an  opponunity  tc 
■acta  and  hanina  and  <■  veri>  happy  iD  hll  position  of  motlire  power,  to  JohDd 


Q' 


lUR  BDCcators   for   War  or    Pure 


PEN  CLIP ^iirSfi •,".'& 

rhi«4  hslf  yfafasulnCTlpti—   ■■--    -   

Ererybody'a Jou — '  *"■-    "■ 

WANTKD— Memben,      Isctut*™, 

Co-openliie  College  of  C 
reo  Ave..  ChlCTuo,  III. 


dipping    lu  ink  i  ' 
ion  for    to  cents. ,  » 


Puhliahets  of 

VEGETARIAN   AND   HEALTH' 

LITERATURE. 


JOB  &  BOOK 

PRINTING! 


;  Welkin  BIttffRest  Can 

L  Brienic  priuciploi  is  opennl  for  inralt^ 
d  all  swkTni^  rat  and  hMllh.  On  ■  -«!. 
eleraliou,  diy,  fine  aaaay  and  laiBel.  a 

(daily.    Prices  low.    All  wiahlnB  to  tet  ci«' 
—   "alure  for  health  and  streiiKth.    haii« 

>lVdia     Goodnow      Hamilton.       HUliBiaa. 


DR.  I,.  B.  ADdenon,  P.  H.  G.  iser 
Temple,  Chicago  la    oae     of  tl 
aucccHTiil      hvgleiiic      Physiclaai     li 
country.    Write  him  tOr  interoitlDB  d 
or  encloae  ia  cu  (br  loo  page  tiook  o 


BOOKS  FREE  ; 

other  reforma.     Yon  can  read  then 


3d   dear,  dear  Rnhv,  one 
id  Grace  Sti.,   Richmond.  1 


r   (Vegetarian)  in    Boston 
r  refinement  with  a  libera: 


'hical   Ifalston    Sy. 

^COGNIZING  the  happiiwH  isukni 
fk-om  duty  ptr/ormtd,  the   t>]caaing*  if 

Ira  rtil  tni  kofit/ul  wort,  taA  brlieri^ 
•elt  Imposed  obllgatlona  atltnnlate  ban 
mind  to  great  achlevenenta,  we.  te: 
craigned.  do  hereby  take  npoD  omietw 
ollowlDgdutiea: 

be  law*  of  health,  and  If  not  altn* 
iben  of  the  Ralaton  Health  Club  adl 
ir  eaillot  con*«ie«9. 


:   will   e 


canadenlioiB  al  d 


or  partly  furnished  to  two  or  three 
(Hyglenlata  prelerrtd.)  CealrallT  anc 
a&tly  located,  In  a  prog;reAHlve  and  prw 
Jeraeylown.    Plenty  of  sun  and  afi»d< 


w- 


n  people  who  have  tai. 
arian    diet,  and     from 


geneial  reaolla  ai 


e  approve,  and   will  endeavor   to    bc^l 

le  Nbw  Race,  may  learn  fieely  the  ma 
physical  and  moral  besllb.  oratur, 
elUI  thoughtandexprenioD,  nagneiaa 
■ght  tranifinence,  memory,  llieniuie. 
lie.  fine  art.sloyd  «nd  duty. 


Louia,  Mo. ;  Topeka  Milling  Cc 
ansaa. ;  Franklin  Mill  Co..  Uvt- 
. :   Vegetarian  Society  of  Amerii 


The   Esoteric, 

THE  ESOTERIC  ia  devoted   to   tn 
Kleniifically     rellgioaa,     for    b 

who  are  studying  magic  will  find  li 
aecrels  of  (he  Power  of  the  Chrlrt. 
knowledge,  and  of  hia  underxtandiaf 
•criplion,  ti.SDpet  year.  Sample  eo 
Kmlerlc  Publishing    Company,      Ap| 


ZMDvGOOgk 


db,  Google 


CCjt-itpCeJ^eM^tX^, 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


pood.  \\of(\^  ai)d  (iardei^ij 


Vol.  I,  No.  lo,  II,  New  Srriks. 


AUG.— SEP.,    1897. 


Whole  Ncmbbb,  83. 


PHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY 


JULY  GROVE   MEETING. 


NORTHWOOD  PARK,  the  Western 
bo«ndai7  of  the  pretty  suburb  of 
Northwood,  was  thie  year  selected  for 
the  Picnic  Rnd  Grove  meeting  of  the  P.  V,  S, 
and  invitations  were  distributed  to  which 
about  sixty  persons  respouded  uotwithstand* 
ing  the  poaring  rain  and  the  thunder  and 
lightning  which  characterized  die    day. 

The  park  commission  had  supplied  benches 
for  the  park  only  a  few  days  before,  and  these 
were  arranged  in  an  elipse  around  a  nicely 
•bitded  spot  in  the  Park.  The  guests  assem- 
bled at  the  residence  of  the  President  of  the 
V.  S.  A.,  who  bad  invited  them,  and  in  an 
interval  of  snn^ine,  at  four  o'clock,  the 
meeting  in  the  park  was  called  to  order  by 
Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb  who  apotogiaed  for  the 
■bsence  of  President  de  Learsy  who  could  not 
cotnetilt  later  in  the  evening. 

Mr.  Clubb  in  a  few  remarks,  words  of  wel- 
come to  the  N.  Y.  guests,  spoke  in  reference 
to  the  zealotis  and  efiective  labots  of  his  coun- 
tryman, John  Walter  Scott,  who  had  main- 
tained  an  active  V.  S.  in  N.  Y.  and  also 
condncted  7X«  fV^i'MM,  and  introduced  Mr. 
Scott  to  the  assembled  guests. 

Hr.  Scott  was  received  most  cordially  and 
spoke  of  the  atdiorience  with  which  he 
rqianHed  the  slaughter  of  animals  for  food  and 
the  responsibility  of  those  who  partook  of 
Besh  for  the  diabolical  cruelties  inflicted  on 
belpless  and  inoflensive  creatures.  He  had 
experienced  not  the  slightest  inconvenience 
from  abstaining  from  fiesh  and  had  not  lost 
a  day  Irom  sickness  during  the  fifteen  years 
he  bad  done  so. 

Mr.  Oubb  alluded  to  the  (act  that  Mr.  Scott 
worked  regularly  sixteen  hours  a  day  at  in- 
door, literary  business  which  was  usually 
much  more  severe  on  the  health    than  the 


same  time  spent  in  the  open  air,  and  yet  he 
enjoyed  the  robust  health  which  his  personal 
appearance  indicated.  He  had  great  pleasure 
in  introducing 

Mr.  Arthur  Haviland,  anotlier  bard  worker 
in  thecanse  from  N.  Y.,  and  with  whom  they 
were  already  acquainted.  Mr.  Haviland  was 
very  cordially  received  and  spoke  of  the 
difficulties  experienced  by  converts  to  V^e- 
tarianism,  especially  in  a  city  like  N.  V.,  as 
compared  to  the  comparatively  easy  time  of 
Vegetarians  who  had  been  brought  ttp  from 
infancy  without  any  fiesh  meat  in  their 
dwellings.  Yet  he  believed  the  opposition  to 
the  practice  experienced  by  N.  Y.  and  other 
converts  had  in  some  instances  induced  more 
determination  to  pursue  the  right  course  and 
induced  perhaps  the  greater  enthusiasm  in 
the' cause.  He  spoke  encours^ngly  of  the 
■piognaa  made  by  the  N.  Y.  Society  and  con- 
cluded by  inviting  those  present  to  take 
every  opportunity  to  com^To  N.  Y,  and  attend 
the  meetings  there,  especially  a  picnic  which 
they  were  expecting  to  hold  in  August. 

Mr.  Clubb  seeing  threfitening  clouds  and 
remembering  the  dampness  of  the  surround- 
ings, invited  the  friends  to  his  faome.  Had 
the  weather  been  propitious  the  refre^ments 
would  have  been  served  in  the  park,  but  it 
was  deemed  prudent  to  have  them  at  the 
house. 

A  motion  to  adjourn  to  the  house  was  carried 
unanimously,  and  the  party  soon  were  having 
a  good  social  time  at  1023  Poulkrod  St.,  where 
the  Vegetarian  press  driven  by  electric  motor 
beat  time,  and  the  organ  and  fintemade  sweet 
music  while  the  New  York  and  Philadelphia 
guests  were  becoming  better  acquainted. 

At  six  o'clock  refreshments  were  served 
according  to  the  following  menu,  the  guests 

'47 


d  by  Google 


pood,  flomi^  at)d  Qardei; 


bein^    distributed    on   two    porches,    parlor, 
dining  room  and  lawo. 

MENU  OF  PICNIC. 


SIked  TomatM*. 

Leittice. 

Gnbam  Rolls. 

Brown  Bind. 

White  BrMd. 

PtCKI,BS. 

GherklDi. 

Oliw.. 

SANDWICH  sa 

S^vorj.                            Egg  plut 

Pemiit 

Buuu.                       PMn. 

Plomi 

AnortRI  Cake. 

IC»    Cm«Aii. 

Vmill..                    Slr.wb«Ty. 

The   Ev^ing  Session. 

After  freely  discussing;  this  practical  dem- 
onstration of  Vegetarian  fare,  and  enjoying  a 
good  social  time,  an  invitation  having  been 
kindly  extended  to  hold  the  evening  session 
at  the  residence  of  Mr.  George  W.  Wright, 
cor.  of  Foulkrod  &  Horrocks  Sts.,  an  adjonrn- 
ment  to  that  residence  soon  filled  the  more 
specious  Verandas  tfiere. 

This  being  the  regular  time  for  the  July 
monthly  meeting,  Rev.  A.  T.  de  Leersy  the 
President  took  the  chair  and  Miss  Emma  I. 
Bettesher  place  as  Secretary. 

Rev.  Mr.  Rich,  pastor  of  the  New  Jerusalem 
Church,  Frankford,  opened  the  proceedings 
by  an  appropriate  Invocation  for  the  divine 
blessing. 

The  President  said : 

Like  faith,  hope  and  love,  in  a  degree 
science  art  and  nature  are  three  great  features, 
in  the  realm  of  time,  space  and  sense.  Re- 
corded science  enables  us  to  repeat  with  strik- 
ing similarity  and  satisfactory  accuracy, 
whatever  we  had  formerly  undertaken  and 
brought  to  a  happy  result.  Art  is  the  work 
of  our  hands  skilfully  com  pleted.  But  nature 
is  the  substructure,  interstmcture  and  super- 
structure; without  which  structure  for  our 
basis  Art  and  Science  could  find  no  home, 
much  less  existence. 

Art  and  Science  are  not  confined  to  mankind 
alone;  bat  to  other  creatures    besides  "the 

14S 


crown  of  creation,"  known  as  "man,"  Wit- 
ness the  bird  making  its  nest ;  the  beaver 
constructing  its  dam ;  the  spider  its  web ;  the 
bee  its  hive.  Here  is  art  for  us,  no  less  than 
science,  and  like  mental  arithmetic,  in  this 
case  it  is  mental  science.  The  German 
proverb  reads;  "There  are  peoples  beyond 
the  mountains."  And  just  as  "wisdom  did 
not  perish"  with  Job's  soculled  comforters, 
so  neither  may  we  assert  that  the  man  is  the 
ne  plus  ultra  of  animal  intelligence.  Co- 
lumbus proved  there  was  land  beyond  the 
neplusuUra  "pillarsof  Hercules"  and  these 
we  at  present  denominate  Gibraltar  and 
Tangiers  and  just  as  the  discovery  of  North 
and  South  America  exploded  the  idea  of  limi- 
tation in  the  realm  ofgec^raphy,  equally  so 
we  should  learn  to  respect  all  of  God's  crea- 
tures, whether  two-footed  or  four-footed. 
"Honor  to  whom  honor  is  due."  Let  our 
affections  be  as  much  directed  toward  one  as 
well  as  the  other  division  of  God's  creatures 
as  our  minds  'ever  go  forth  ta  all  the  realms 
of  nature  known  and  unknown;  else  we 
should  stand  in  need  of  that  good  Dunkard's 
prayer,  when  he  asked,  "Lord,  harden  his 
brain  and  soften  his  heart!  " 

No  doubt  there  could  be  no  civilization 
without  Art  or  Science.  But  neither  could 
there  be  Science  nor  Art  unless  there  were 
nature  as  a  basis  of  operation  whether  mental 
or  manual.  Here  ifl  a  bench,  the  result  of 
art  and  science;  but  what  could  the  manu- 
facturer of  the  same  do  without  nature,  that  is 
wood?  Look  at  yonder  massive  and  solid 
bridges.  Whut  could  the  civil  Engineer,  the 
Mason,  the  artisan  do  without  nature?  Ab- 
solutely nothing.  Art  and  Science  are  b)it  the 
handmaids  of  nature,  the  Mother  of  us  all,  of 
creation  whether  animate  or  inanimate. 
Nature  sustains  us ;  keeps  us  in  health ; 
provides  us  with  homes ;  prepares  our  clothing 
for  us ;  and  blesses  us  with  everything  that  is 
good,  as  it  come  directly  from  its  Author, 
namely  our  God  of  Heaven  and  Earth.  With- 
out Art  or  Science  we  certainly  can  live,  and 
our  first  parents  lived  happily  and  in  all  in- 
nocence in  Paradise ;  although  perhaps  not 
Aug. -Sep., 


d  by  Google 


Ipoodl.  \\otn^  apd  (iardei? 


is  comfbitably,  cozily  or  as  luxuriously  as 
ciTilizfltion  might  enable  us  to  realize.  Bnt 
without  nature  there  would  not  be  even  as 
much  as  a  molecule  in  existence.  This  basic 
thought  should  permeate  U.S  ^n  the  most  prac- 
tical manner;  and  as  a  result  we  would 
become,  not  more  nor  less,  but  simply :  nat- 
ural. And  by  becoming  natural  we  would,  in 
oar  human  spheres  become  perfect. 

After  showing  the  necessity  for  more  ex- 
tended operations  in  the  city  and  country,  the 
President  extended  a  cordial  welcome  to  the 
gnests  of  the  evening  and  concluded  by  in- 
troducing Mr.  C.  A.  Montgomery,  President 
of  the  Brooklyn  N.  Y,  Vegetarian  Society, 
who  addressed  himself  mainly  to  the  Vege- 
tarians who  constituted  a  large  majority  of 
the  audience.  He  said  it  seemed  a  tendency 
in  human  beings  to  attach  less  importance  to 
that  to  which  they  had  been  accnstomed  all 
their  lives  than  to  that  which  had  been  ac- 
quired by  their  own  study,  conviction,  and 
experience.  Hence  he  had  noticed  that  per- 
sons who  had  been  converted  to  Vegetarianism 
were  commonly  more  enthusiastic  in  the  cause 
than  those  who  had  been  vegetarians  from 
birth.  He  therefore  nrged  upon  those  present 
who  had  been  vegetarians  all  their  lives  to 
guard  against  this  tendency  and  put  their 
shonlders  to  the  wheel  oi  progress.  He  had 
joined  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America  as  a 
life  member,  and  he  had  also  joined  the  Phila- 
delphia Society  as  well  as  the  Brooklyn  and 
New  York  Societies.  He  had  also  become  a 
member  of  the  Chicago  and  the  Minneapolis 
Vegetarian  Societies  because  he  believed  it 
was  important  that  we  should  help  forward 
these  local  efforts.  He  urged  the  necessity 
of  aiding  the  V.  S.  A.  In  New  York,  when 
the  President  suggested  that  the  celebration 
of  his  70th.  birthday  might  be  accomplished 
by  sending  subscriptions  to  F.  H.  and  G., 
they  met  together  and  made  up  a  list  of  fifty 
snbscribers  to  that  periodical,  although  they 
have  77ie  Vegetarian  to  support.  He  hoped  such 
increased  support  would  be  given  to  the 
V.  S.  A.  as  would  enable  it  to  pay  a  salary  to 
its   active    Secretary.    Miss    Clubb    is     now 

1897 


laboring  as  secretary,  attending  to  a  very 
exten.sive  correspondence  for  almost  nothing, 
when  she  ought  to  have  a  respectable  salary 
for  her  laborous  services.  He  made  these 
suggestive  remarks  not  in  criticism,  but  in 
order  that  the  movement  should  be  carried  on 
with  increased  zeal  and  effectiveness. 

The  president  requested  Mr.  Clubb  and  all 
who  bore  that  name  to  retire  for  a  few  minutes 
beyond  the  bearing  of  the  proceedings. 

Mr.  Clubb  and  family  hiiving  retired,  the 
following  proceedings  took  place : 

I.  John  Ranson  from  the  special  committee 
appointed  at  the  June  meeting,  presented  the 
following : 

Congratulatory  Resolutions  of  the  Philadelphia 
yiegelarian  Society,  ta  the  Rev.  Henry  S. 
Clubb,  on  his  yoth  Anniversary,  June  list, 
1897. 
Recognizing  the  ardent  labors,  untiring  zeal, 
and  hearty  devotion  in  the  cause  of  Vegeta- 
rianism, for  more  than  half  a  century,  both 
in  this  country  and  in  England,  of  the  Rev. 
Henry  S.  Clubb,  President  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society  of  America,  and  having  learned  that 
this,  the  21st  day  of  June,  1897,  is  the  70th 
anniversary  of  his  birth,  it  was  resolved  to 
appoint  a  Committee  to  draft  resolutions 
commemorative  of  the  same. 
In  accordance  with  the  above,  the  Committee 
presented  the  following,  which  was  unani- 
mously adopted  at  the  regular  meeting  of 
the  Philadelphia  Vegetarian  Society,  held 
July  19th,  1897: 

Resolved, — That  we  congratulate  onr  veteran 
Vegetarian,  the  Rev.  Henry  S,  Clubb,  who 
has  reached  the  70th  mile  stone  on  the  high- 
way of  life,  having  attained  the  three  score 
and  ten  years  allotted  to  man. 

We  believe  that  vegetarianism  has  a  good 
representative  in  the  person  of  the  venerable 
President  of  our  National  Society,  as  manifes- 
ted by  his  robust  health  and  strong  mental 
powers,  combined  with  his  constant  persever- 
ance, his  unwearied  efforts  and  verdant  hope- 
fulness, guid&d  by  high  moral  principles,  and 
his  love  of  all  creation,  which  has  made  him 
prominent  in  this  and  other  reforms, 

149 


d  by  Google 


pood.  f\om^  apd  Oardep 


Feeling  that  his  great  life  of  nsefnlness  as 
aathor,  editor,  minister  and  refbmier  has 
been  the  means  ol  Ttpbolding  and  strengthen- 
ing the  canse  of  veg^arianism,  so  unpopular 
in  the  so-called  civilized  world,  we  feel  at  this 
time  moved  to  express  onr  sincere  gratitude 
for  his  useful  life,  and  tendering  our  warm- 
est congratulations  to  him  on  this  occasion, 
we  reverently  lift  npoiir  hearts  to  the  God  of 
love,  with  the  earnest  prajcr  that  it  may 
please  Him  to  prolong  the  life  of  oiir  beloved 
President,  that  he  may  see  the  cause  of  truth 
and  righteous  living  established,  which  he  lias 
so  long  and  ably  advocated,  and  trusting  that 
he  and  his  may  be  blessed  with  continued 
health  and  happiness;  and  again  expressing 
onr  congratulationst  ^)J^tion  and  esteem  on 
this  occasion,  with  the  sincere  wish  that  he 
may  be  spared  for  many  years  to  come,  in  his 
life  of  devotion  among  us. 
J.  Harvey  Lovbll  1 
A.  T.  De  Lbaksy.  V  Commitlee 
I.  John  Ransom,  j 
Mr.  Clubb  being  invited  to  return,  Mr. 
Ransom  read  the  r^^lutions  to  him  and  a 
recess  was  taken  in  which  all  who  were  pres- 
ent came  np  and  shaking  hands  with  him 
ofiered  their  personal  congratulations  on  his 
completion  of  bis  70th  year  and  wishing  him 
many  more  years  of  health  and  activity  in 
this  sphere  of  lab(»-lbr  the  cause  he  had  so 
much  at  heart. 

On  leasaembling,  a  committee  consisting 
of  Rev.  Amanda  Deyo,  Mrs.  Samh  M.  Wright, 
Mrs.  P.  Horrocks  to  a«tr  with  the  committee  on 
resolutions  in  procuring  suitable  engross- 
ment and  framing  to  be  presented  in  proper 
form  for  preservation. 

Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb  responded  to  these 
proceedings,  expressing  his  consciousness  of 
a  very  imperfect  ability  to  perform  these 
duties  connected  with  the  V.S,  A.  but  he  felt 
be  had  been  wonderfully  sustained  by  a  kind 
providence  and  now  to  find  his  course  so  cor- 
dially endorsed  by  the  Philadelphia  Society 
and  those  representing  the  New  York  and 
Brooklyn  Societies,  a-s  well  as  those  of  his  own 
church  and  neighbors  who  knew  him   best, 

"50 


would  be  a  source  of  constant  comfort  and  en- 
couragement. He  had  labored  in  getting  oat 
the  periodical  under  very  difficult  circnm- 
stauces  the  chief  of  which  was  the  want  of 
funds  and  as  he  had  agreed  not  to  allow  the 
society  to  go  info  debt  it  had  been  a  constant 
drain  upon  his  own  resources  to  maintain  the 
periodical.  He  was  however  hoping  that 
the  time  would  come  when  V^etarians  would 
generally  see  the  importance  of  sustaining 
their  own  organ  by  giving  it  a  self-sustaining 
circulation.  Since  the  N.  Y.  Society  had  sent 
50  subscriptions  one  friend  at  N.  Y.  Mr.  Amory 
Stevens,  had  kindly  added  his  cheque,  received 
to-day,  for  $10.00  making  90  subscriptions  at 
the  club  rate  from  N^  Y.  This  was  a  good 
beginning,  and,  when  this  example  shall  be 
followed  by  the  other  cities  and  villages  of  the 
country,  he  hoped  the  required  10,000  sub- 
scriptions would  be  attained  as  there  were 
many  more  to  hear  from.  He  concluded  by 
thanking  his  friends  present  for  the  very 
encouraging  action  they  had  taken  which  he 
believed  was  wiill  calculated  to  have  the  de- 
sired efiect  of  extending  the  period  of  life  by 
adding  to  its  satisfactions.  He  believed  it 
was  in  the  nature  of  a  kind  providence  to 
extend  these  lives  that  were  earestly  devoted 
to  humame  and  philanthropic  efforts.  (Ap- 
plause.) 

Rev.  Amanda  Deyo,  on  the  call  of  the  Pres- 
ident, arose  and  in  a  speech  of  much  fervor  and 
eloquence  expressed  her  entire  sympathy  with 
this  movement  for  the  prevention  of  blood- 
shed, believing  that  it  would  also  be  effective 
in  promoting  the  cause  of  peace  among  men 
in  which  she  was  more  especially  engaged. 
Shs  concluded  by  inviting  friends  to  call  on 
her  at  the  Peace  rooms.  Independence  Hall, 
and  lend  their  aid  to  the  work  carried  on 
there. 

The  Rev.  Mr.  Rich  being  called  on  by  the 
President,  said  he  supposed  the  reason  the 
New  Church  people  were  considered  especially 
favorable  to  this  cause  was  the  fact  that 
Swedenborg  stated  that  the  people  of  the  most 
ancient  church  abstained  from  eating  the 
flesh  of  animals.  He  could  not  himself  claim 
Aug- Sep. 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  ^om^  ai>d  (jardep 


to  be  a  thoroaffli  Vegetarian  as  it  was  not 
always  convenient,  bnt  he  was  glad  to  partic- 
ipate in  sentiments  tbat  had  been  so  cordially 
and  unitedly  expressed  that  evening. 

Thb  Jobileb. 
*  Rev.    Henry  S.  CInbb  said  the  Vegetarian 
Society,    England,  bad  been  celebrating  the 
5otb  anniversary  of  the  establishment  of  that 
Socie^. 

An  International  Convention  is  called  for 
September,  1897,  in  London  and  we  should 
take  some  action  in  regard  to  that  Conven- 
tion. I  therefore  propose  the  adoption  of  the 
following  resolution : 

Resolved,  That  this  meeting  composed  of 
taembers  of  the  Philadelphia  Vegetarian  So- 
ciety and  the  New  York  Vegetarian  Society 
■who  are  likewise  members  of  tbe  Vegetarian 
Society  of  America,  hereby  express  to  the 
International  Vegetarian  Consress  to  be  held 
in  England  in  September  next,  onr  moat 
cordial  greetings  and  congratulations  on  the 
Jtibilee  celebratiatt  of  the  parent  Vegetarian 
Society  and  onr  conviction  that  the  seed  sown 
in  the  present  half  century  <will  produce  a 
hnndred-fbid  fruition  in  the  next,  resulting 
in  a  purer  and  more  complete  and  enlightened 
civilization  and  the  ultimate  establishment 
of  R  kingdom  wherein  the  truth  shall  not  only 
be  preached  to  but  enjoyed  by  etery  creature 
and  all  that  is  selfish  cruet  and  destructive 
shall  be  superseded  by  what  is  generous  gentle 

The  Resolution  was  seconded  and  nnani- 
monsly  adopted. 

On  motion  of  Mr.  Ransom  it  was 

Reselved,  That  the  above  resolution  be  pub- 
lished in  Pood,  Houb  ft  Garden  and  for- 
warded to  the  International  Convention  and 
that  the  other  Vegetarian -Societies  in  Ameri- 
ca be  requested  to  take  similar  action,  and  a 
fiand  be  raised  by  contribution  of  all  the  so- 
cieties to  send  a  delegate  to  said  convention. 

After  some  discussion  in  which  Dr.  J.  Har- 
veyl^vell,  Mr.  Scott,  Mr.  Montgomery,  Mr. 
Haviland  and  Edwin  F.  Metcalfe  took  part, 

Mrs.  Margaret  Haviland,  on  being  earnestly 
invited,  came  forward  and  expressed  herself 
in  hearty  sympathy  with  the  Vegetarians 
present.  Having  been  an  abstainer  from 
flesh  over  seven  years  believed  that  she  had 
now  become  free  from  the  taint  of  it. 

The  Society  adjonmed  till  Sep.  20th. 

1897 


REV.    A.  T.  DE  LEARSV,   D.  D.,  M.  D. 
President  op  the  Phila.   Vegbtabian  S'y. 

Of  Saxon  descent,  Anthony  Theodore  de 
I.earsy  was  bom  in  Crimea  in  1854  during  tbe 
Crimesn  war.  Moving  thence  with  his 
parents  to  Constantinople  all  passed  on  to 
Egypt,  where  his  &ther  died,  and  where  a 
couple  of  years  later  his  widowed  mother  re- 
married. Here  he  commenced  his  educstion 
and  at  once  entered  into  the  study  of  several 
languages,  in  school.  In  Syria  and  Palestine 
tbe  education  continued  and  ended  by  Tutors 
supplementing  the  instnictions:  Here  he 
served  from  1873  to  r88i  as  Secretary  of  the 
German  Consulate,  and  received  from  Alexan- 
der II,  Etuperor  of  Rossfe,  for  services  rendered 
to  Russian  Citizens  during  the  Russo-Turkisb 
war  of  1877 — 78  the  gold  medal  of  the  Knight- 
hood of  St.  Ana.  Being  unable  to  secure  a 
theological  training  in  England,  he  left  there 
for  tbe  U.  S.  where  in  Kentucky  he  studied  in 
the  K'y  University,  while  acting  at  the  same 
time  as  Prof,  of  Modem  languages  in  a  Ladies' 
College  and  a  Ladies'  Seminary.  Returning 
to  New  York,  he  took  the  ministerial  Studies 
in  the  General  Theological  Seminary,  gradu- 
ating in  1S85;  the  same  year  he  was  ordained 
Deacon,  and  nine  months  later  Priest,  both  by 
B'p  Dudley  of  Louisville,  Ky.  Having  com- 
menced his  ministerial  '^ork  in  K'y  he  con- 
tinned  in  it  in  Mass.,  Texas,  Md.,  N.  Y.,  O., 
Miss,  and  Fenn.  In  1894  he  settled  in  Phila. 
where  the  rest  of  the  family  had  arrived  from 
Europe.  From  the  Texas  Health  College  he 
received  the  degree  of  M.  D.  and  obtained  the 
D.  D.  degree  from  the  National  University  of 
Chicago.  In  1887  while  in  Texas  he  became 
converted  to  Vegetarianism  through  reading 
"The  Proper  Diet  fiir  Man"  and  commenced 
the  practice  faithfully  there  and  then,  intend- 
ing to  hold  on  to  it  as  long  as  life  lasts.  He 
has  written  several  papers  on  apparently 
difficult  passsgesof  Holy  Scriptures,  a  work 
entitled  "  The  Seven  World  Empires,  A  Com- 
mentary on  tbe  Book  of  Revelation,  and  a 
pamphlet  on  the  Sabbath  question.  In  all  his 
views  he  endeavors  to  be  liberal ;  accepting 
Holy  Scripture  as  his  guide  for  time  a  eternity. 

•St 


d  by  Google 


pood.  )1om^  apd  Qardei^ 


Mr.  Erost  Ebel  writes  that  Bellamy,  in 
his  new  book  "Equality"  repeats  Tolstoi's 
prophecy:  "To  the  Vegetarians  belong  the 
future,"  with  approval. 


A  BUTCHER'S  CONFESSION. 
Alfred  H  Love  writes :  "  I  feel  like  giving 
yon  the  evidence  of  a  Butcher.  He  said  to 
me.  as  I  stood  by  him  at  his  stall  a  little  foir 
haired  girl  was  watching  him.  to  whom  I 
said :  '  What  a  pity  she  has  to  be  witness  of 
this.'  'VesI  agree  with  you,  Butcher  as  I 
aiu,  I  sonietimes  feel  very  badly  as  the  in- 
nocent animal  is  brought  up  to  be  killed,  I 
have  at  times  thro^pn  down  thehatumer  and 
said     •/can't  do  it  V-'' 


LOATHING  FLESH  EATING. 
I  am  sure  that  many  who  now  eat  meat 
would  not  if  they  had  to  kill  it  themselves. 
It  seems  to  me  that  I  couldn't  eat  meat  now 
if  I  had  to.  I  wonder  if  all  Vegetarians  feel 
so  queer  as  I  do  when  they  think  of  eating 
fleshf  I  just  loathe  it.  I  can't  express  my 
feelings  in  words.— A.  >!'  Jacobson,  Woodin- 
ville, King  Co.,  Wash. — How  many  working 
men  are  suffering  from  the  delusion  of  flesh- 
eating,  beerdrinking  and  tobacco  habits  who 
might  live  and  enjoy  life  if  enlightened  on 
these  subjects. 

A  "STRICT  VEGETARIAN."" 
People  can  form  no  idea  of  the  pleasure  of 
being  a  strict  Vegetarian  from  a  mere  theo- 
retical study  of  the  subject.  Mrs.  Gregorson 
of  Ocean  View,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal.,  writes: 
"Mr.  Gregorson  has  been  a  Vegetarian  45 
years.  I  was  converted  35  years  ago.  We 
are  both  strict  Vegetarians  now.  I  find  a 
delicious  variety  of  fruits,  vegetables,  and 
cereals;  enjoy  cooking  them,  and  eat  my 
food  with  more  relish  than  before  I  was  a  strict 
Vegetarian." — This  illustrates  our  position 
that  no  mixed  diet  can  ever  be  as  delightful 
or  afford  as  much  enjoyment  as  a  pure  Veg- 
etarian selection  which  affords  a  much  higher 
sense  of  satisfaction  than  can  possibly  be 
derived  from  a  combination  with  slaughter- 
house products. 


FOUNDATION  OF  RELIGION  &  ETHICS. 
I  feel  forced  to  express  my  delight  on  re- 
ceiving Food,  Houe  &  Garden.  It  gives 
me  so  much  encouragement  to  learn  that 
there  are    many    more    Vegetarians    in     the 

To  me  Vegetarianism  seems  to  be  the  foun- 
dation of  all  religion  and  ethics.  A  slaughter 
house  is  a  place  where  one  can  see  the  most 
perfect  manifestation  of  Satan.  There  he 
shows  himself  in  his  most  terrible  nakedness; 
there  every  holy  feeling,  every  holy  aspira- 
tion, is  laughed  at,  and  trodden  under  foot ; 
there  love  and  compassion  are  most  emphat- 
ically denied,  and  boundless  egoism,  egoism 
rising  to  craelty,  asserted. 

Later  in  life,  (lam  23  years  old)  I  intend  to 
write  on  Vegetarianism  in  my  own  language. 
I  am  a  Russian  Jew,  and  I  should  be  very 
glad  to  spread  Vegetarianism  among  my  own 
countrymen.— S.  Ra-vich,  55  Wall  St., 
Boston,  Mass. 


AIKEN,  S.  C. 
Aiken,  S.  C,  deserves  the  notice  of  Vege- 
tarians desiring  a  mild  climate  owiug  to 
features  essential  to  the  purveying  of  the 
staples  constituting  a  hygienic  dietary,  es- 
pecially fruit  from  trees  and  vines  and  pure 
water.  Located  on  a  ridge  of  fair  length  and 
width,  565  ft.  above  sea  level  near  a  notable 
body  of  long  leaved  yellow  pine,  120  miles 
west  of  Charleston,  readily  accessible  by  rail, 
in  a  settled  country ;  schools,  churches, 
banks  and  other  accessories  valued  by  steady 
people,  it  is  much  more  inviting  than  the 
prairies  of  the  for  west  and  the  cold  Korth- 
west.  If  Aiken's  peaches  and  grapes  are 
less  showy  than  those  of  Southern  California, 
this  is  of^t  by  being  better  flavored  and  more 
wholesome,  needing  less  sugar.  ludigenous 
vegetables  grown  on  this  elevation  are  sure  to 
be  toothsome.  Oranges  from  the  lower  coun- 
ties and  the  coast  are  not  distant.  Bonafide 
settlers  will  no  doubt  be  welcomed  by  the 
natives.— R.  Hecker.— We  have  lived  in 
Charleston  and  Columbia  and  fully  agree  with 
friend  Hecker  as  to  the  climatic  advantages. 

Aug- Sep. 


d  by  Google 


P  pood,  jioft^  apd  (fird2J) 


pood,  jiooi^  apd  (Jardeij 

PHILADELPHIA.  Aug-Sep  1897 

VegvtaHui   Society   or  Atneiica.    pnblUtaen, 

All  <»BimDDlcatloiu  to  b«  aeot    to  310    CbeMnut  SL 

REV.    HENRT    S.  CLOBB.    EdIlOT. 

3ne  SabKripUoa,  socu.,  four  SutHcriptlona    fi.oo  ■   jetr. 

Admtlatiiienia     per     line,     one   tDMKiOD.   lo   cenu. 


Mrs.  L.  C.  Read,  521  Thirteenth  St.,  Oak- 
land, California  is  opening  a  Reading  Room 
for  Reform  Literature  and  would  be  glad  of 
donations  of  reading  matter. 


Red  Apple  Sunday  was  celebrated  recently 
in  a  M.  E.  Church  in  Cincinnati,  O.  We 
presume  it  was  the  Red  Astrachan,  the  best 
of  the  summer  apples.  The  clinrch  was  dec- 
orated with  them. 


Rev.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Lake  of  Cleveland  ia 
preaching  at  a  camp  meeting-at  Chesterfield, 
Ind.  and  is  putting  in  strong  words  for  Veg- 
etarianism and  distributing  P.,  H.  &  G.  She 
is  an  eloqnent  champion  of  Vegetarian  truth. 


This  has  been  a  bad  season  for  summer 
resorts  as  in  wet,  rainy  weather  nobody  cares 
to  leave  home.  Should  hot  weather  set  in 
we  hope  our  friends  will  pay  a  visit  to  Welkin 
Bluff,  Millington,  Mass.,  a  delightful  place  for 
summer  and  fall. 


We  have  blended  Ang.-Sep.  ittthisnumber 
to  give  us  a  chance  to  catch  up  as  to  date,  as 
owing  to  sickness  and  death  among  onr  print- 
ers we  ran  behind  and  could  not  get  even  with 
time  in  any  other  way.  Our  subscribers  will 
get  their  full  nnmbers. 

Our  friend  A.  S.  M'c  Bean  of  Lakewood, 
N.  J.  proposes  to  unite  with  a  few  others  in 
ordering  a  ton  of  Banana  flour  from  Jamaica. 
Wfao  will  unite  with  him?  Those  who,  like 
him,  desire  to  start  the  importation  of  this 
article  will  pleasecommnnicate  with  us.  We 
will  reqnire  some.  It  can  be  had  cheap  by 
ordering  that  quantity. 
1897 


A  Civic  and  Philanthropic  Conference  is 
called  to  be  held  at  Battle  Creek,  Mich., 
Oct.  12 — 17,  1867  to  which  are  invited  all 
interested  in  social,  hygienic  and  philanthrop- 
ic questions.  Particulars  can  be  obtained  by 
addressing,  with  stamp,  S.  Sherin,  Sec.  San- 
itarium, Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


Prof.  Grant  Allen  gives  the  reason  for  cook- 
ing food  Our  friend  Spencer  of  New  York 
gives  reasons  for  eating  food  uncooked.  Cook- 
ing food  enables  us  to  use  a  greater  variety 
of  edibles  and  consequently  a  better  opportu- 
nityof  suiting  the  peculiarconditions  of  each 
individual.  We  have  seen  persons  who  try  to 
live  on  uncooked  food  reduce  in  flesh  and 
strength  and  such  persons  should  not  con- 
tinue a  course  which  fails  to  nourish  them. 

A.  B.  Brolley,  Saratoga,  Cal.,  thinks 
every  opportunity  to  practice  Vegeta- 

in  California  and  that  many  would 
do  BO  if  informed  of  the  value  of  frnit  and 
vegetables  and  nuts  for  food  as  they  are  being 
produced  abnndantly  and  the  production  In 
California  can  be  greatly  increased.  If  the 
nurserymen  would  circulate  Vegetarian  liter- 
ature, they  would  vastly  increase  the  demand 
for  fruit  and  nut  trees. 


there  ii 


We  have  devoted  to  personal  considerations 
relating  to  ourselves  more  .tpace  than  ever  in 
this  number  out  of  consideration  for  the  kind- 
ness of  our  friends  and  neighbors  who  know 
us  best  and  to  whom  we  hereby  express  our 
gratitude  and  appreciation.  Our  friends  at 
a  distance  are  also  showing  their  sympathy, 
and  if  this  general  movement  result  in  giving 
us  the  ten  thousand  subscribers  required  to 
make  P.,  H.  «  G.  successful,  it  will  relieve  us 
of  the  chief  anxiety  and  thereby  tend,  more 
than  anything  else,  to  lengthen  onr  days. 


In  Chicago  recently,  the  Record  reports 
twenty-four  carcases  of  cattle  snaring  from 
lumpy  jaw  being  rejected  by  the  government 
inspectors  as  unfit  for  exportation  and  then 
parsed  by  State  inspectors  as  fit  for  food  and 
sold  to  meat  dealers  in  the  city.     It  is  the 


dbyGoogIc 


I  pood,  ^om^  atfd  Cardep 


custom  of  State  inspectors  to  condemn  only 
tbe  worst  cases  so  that  Chicago  flesh  eaters 
have  the  privilege  4>f  eating  the  carcases  of 
diseased  animals  condemned  by  the  U.  S. 
inspectors.  Mr.  Lovejoy  only  examined  those 
cattle  that  were  visibly  affected ;  the  disease  is 
usually  in  the  blood  sometimes  before  ita 
effects    are    visible.     Blessed    are    the     flesh 


Mr.  Theo.  Koss  the  eminent  seedsman  of 
Milwaukee  is  an  earnest  Vegetarian  and  has 
kindly  promised  to  furnish  items  and  engrav- 
ings for  our  Gabdbn  Depaktmsnt.  We  hope 
also  to  arrange  for  premiums  in  new  varieties 
of  seeds.  He  has  a  valuable  new  Cabbage 
which  he  proposes  to  call  the  "Vegetarian's 
Delight." 


Our  sketch  does  not  do  Rev.  A,  T.  de  Learsy, 
D.  D.,  (p.  i5i)(ull  justice  for  want  of  space. 
His  ardent  love  for  all  induces  him  to  take 
every  opportunity  to  introduee  V^:etarianity 
to  those  with  whom  his  professional  labors 
bring  him  tn  cont^ft  and  then  be  sends  the 
addresses  of  those  he  has  conversed  with  for 
us  to  supply  them  withP.,  H.  &  G.  Thus  the 
work  is  continuatly  progressing.  This  is  an 
example  worthy  of  imitation. 


RECOVERING. 
Our  good  fnend  A.  M.  Frank  of  Bnfialo  has 
had  an  accident,  falling  headforemost  8  feet, 
June  26th.  Although  74  years  of  age  this 
painful  accident  has  not  snbdned  him  but  he 
is  recovering  with  wonderful  rapidity  owing 
to  his  simple  dietetic  habits. 


THE  UNIVERSITY  CLUB. 
The  University  V^etarian  Clnb  of  Chicago 
is  needing  a  matron  who  is  a  thorough  Veg' 
etarian  and  a  good  caterer.  Such  a  person 
desiring  this  position  should  write  enclosing 
recommendations  to  J.  Howard  Moore,  Chica- 
go University,  Chicago,  Ills.  The  position 
will  be  vacant  in  September.  This  club  is  the 
most  successful  of  all  the  University  clubs  and 
has  turned  away  within  the  last  month, 
enough  applicants  for  two  more  Vegetarian 
clubs. 

154 


SUCCESS  OF  FOOD  HOME  AND  GARDEN. 
New  York  has  coutributed  individually  and 
collectively,  about  100  subscribers  toward  the 
10,000  required.  All  the  rest  of  the  country  has 
contributed  about  as  many  more.  We  believe 
every  one  of  our  subscribers  intend  to  contri- 
bute at  least  4  subscribers,  but  they  are  defer- 
ring it  till  the  times  improve.  John  Wanamak- 
er  says  since  the  new  tariff  has  become  a  law, 
the  condition  of  business  has  already 
improved  and  that  success  can  be  achieved  if 
we  all  determine  that  it  shall.  Let  this  idea 
be  applied  to  Food  Home  aud  Garden.  Let 
us  determine  that  itshall  succeed  and  it  will. 


PROSfi^CUTION  FOR  BEING 
VEGETARIAN. 
Mr  Franklin  P.  White  who  is  taking  care 
of  destitute  children  at  Glenwood  Springs,  Col. 
on  the  Vegetarian  plan,  is  threatened  with 
prosecution  by  Dr.  Rose  Kidd  Beese,  the 
superintendent  for  State  Home  for  Destitute 
Children,  claiming  that  the  State  has  con- 
ferred upon  the  institution  of  which  she  is 
superintendent,  full  control  of  all  dependent 
children  whether  in  charge  of  families  or  at 
large.  But  children  in  charge  of  families,  so 
long  as  they  are  fed,  clothed  and  properly 
cared  forcannot  be  classed  among  "destitute 
or  dependent  children.  "  The  State  surely  can 
find  ample  scope  for  its  diarity  in  attending 
to  those  children  not  otherwise  provided  for. 
Such  persecutioa  arises  from  ignorance  and 
prejudice. 


THE  PHILA.  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

To  the  friends  who  kindly  aided  us  in 
making  Monday,  July  19th,  the  brightest  day 
in  the  year  fo;  Vegetarianism  in  Philadelphia, 
notwithstanding  the  stormy  weather,  we  re- 
cord our  sincere  heartfelt  thanks.  They 
have  never  failed  in  any  eflbrtofthis  kind 
they  have  undertaken.  The  Philadelphia  V.  S. 
has  received  an  important  set  forward  in  that 
gathering.  Establishing  a  Vegetarian  Club 
house,  or  Restaurant  is  to  form  the  subject  of 
consideration  at  the  meeting  September  20tb, 
when  cooperative   plans   will   be   discussed. 

Aug.-Sep. 


d  by  Google 


THE  COCOANXJT   FACTORY. 

A  Factory  200  x  So  ft.  &  4  stories  high  has 
been  erected  in  Philadelphia  for  the  purifica- 
tion of  Cocoaant  oil.  It  is  expected  to  be  in 
operation  early  this  Fall.  New  cans  and 
packages  secure  from  leakage  will  be  adopted. 
A  FAMILY  APPLE  MILL. 

Nothing  is  so  much  needed  as  a  simple, 
cheap  mill  which  would  enable  small  apple 
growers  to  reduce  their  surplus  apples  to  a 
pulp  from  which  the  joice  can  be  expressed  1 
then  boiled  down  to  a  syrup  and  in  this  way 
preserved  for  dilution  as  a  beverage  or  used  as 
jelly.    Add  sugar  before  boiling  down. 

CootilbiitHt  by  MlH  Anr  NIchoIa.  Pbllsdelphia. 

DINNER  MENU. 

Potato  PdA.  Gitra  Corn  on  Cob. 

Bntlal  Tomaloa.  Gtccoi.  Tomato  Tout. 

Graliun  Genu.  Whole  Wbnt  Bnnd. 

Olive*. 

Rice  Padding. 

LemoBBde.  Soda  Water.  Caramd  Cereal. 

RECIPES. 

Soda  Water.— a  tablespoons  of   vinegar  or 

lemon  juice,  2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  >j  teaspoon 

soda.    Flavor  to  taste.    Add   soda  last  aud 

stir  briskly  tilt  foaming. 

Ptmn  PanI  Diet. 

To  Preserve  the  Best  Quality  in  Greens.— 
Use  a  spider  or  kettle  that  will  cover  up 
tightly;  put  in  a  small  lump  of  butter,  a 
spoonful  of  water  and  then  the  greens;  add 
a  little  soda  if  the  water  be  hard,  cook  until 
tender.  Treat  asparagus,  parsnips  and  carrots 
in  the  same  way. 

PioraUn.  G,  C,  EoKllsb,  Lowell,  Mich. 

Graham  Gems. — To  I  qt.  of  sweet  milk, 
stir  in  4  even  tea  cups  of  good  Graham  flour ; 
heat  the  cast  iron  gem  pans  hot  enoagb  to 
sizzle  sharply   when  greased ;  have  the  oven 

1897 


very  hot.  Fill  the  pans  as  full  as  you  can 
without  muDingover;  put  in  the  oven  im- 
mediately. In  about  IS  minutes  they  will  be 
a  nice  browu  and  as  light  as  a  sponge  and  so 
delicious  you  can  eat  tfaem  with  a  relish  as 
they  have  the  natural  swee&  ofthe  flour.  You 
may  think  the  battertoo  thin  but  it  is  not. 
They  become  light  by  the  expansion  of  the 
air  in  the  batter  and  if  the  pans  are  small  atid 
oblong  all  the  better. — ^We  generally  find  it 
necessary  to  bake  gems  >j  hourbnt  if  pans  are 
small  and  oven  very  hot  X  hour  maysnffice. 
FOR    HOME  USE. 

Dr.  Ellen  G.  Smith's  "Fat  ofthe  Land"  is 
a  very  valuable  treatise  otf  the  science  of  pre- 
paring food  and  would  assist  immensely  those 
who  are  desirous  of  giving  a  thorough  trial 
to  Vegetarian  practice. 

The  "Practical  Vegetarian  Cookery"  by 
Countess  Wachmeister  an4.Mrs.  Kate  Buffing- 
ton  Davis  is  an  excellent  exposition  of  the 
most  modem  methods  of  cooking  for 
Vegetarians,  not  as  radical  as  Dr.  Smith's 
but  adapted  to  the  ordinary  requirements  of 
Vegetarian  families. 

The  "American  Vegetarian  Cookery"  is  at 
a  more  popular  price,  combining  the  experi- 
ence of  many  years  in  providing  for  the  daily 
requirements  of  home  life  and  combining  the 
experience  of  lifelong  Vegetarians, 

With  these  three  aids  and  the  periodical 
visits  of  Vegetarian  magazines  there  is  no 
excuse  for  persons  of  ordinary  education  and 
intelligence  suffering  from  faulty  methods  of 
preparing  their  daily  food  or  being  longer 
deluded  by  the  vulgar  errors  in  relation  to  the 
necessity  of  flesh  to  sustain  healthy  vigor  and 
intellectual  activity. 

155 


d  by  Google 


jlpood,  Jlom?  apd  (jardei^ 


QUESTIONS  FOR  READERS  TO  ANSWER. 

Does  the  dead  Besh  impart  anj  nerve 
force  to  the  hnmaiw being? 

Is  Dot  the  whole  carcass  destitute  of  polaritj'  ? 

Do  not  the  giama  possess  both  positive 
and  negative  qnatitieaf 

Does  not  distilling  get  those  two  forces  or 
does  it  get  only  the  positive  force? 

Do  not  distilling,  fermenting,  or  both  com- 
bined, carry  the  product  or  carry  the  strength 
of  the  grain  beyond  powers  of  the  body  to 
utilize,  that  is  beyond  the  power  to  digest, 
assimilate  and  make  into  blood? — Paul  Diet. 
UTILIZING  APPLES. 

Apple  juice,  made  of  select  fruit,  highly 
concentrated  and  specially  suited  for  prepar- 
ing gratefiil  "lemonade"  an  aromatic,  acidu- 
lated beverage,  is  being  introduced  by  a  firm 
in  Stuttgart,  Germany,  located  advantageously 
in  a  section  noted  for  desirable  tree  and  vine 
fruit.  Very  fiue  vinous  pears.  This  apple 
juice  is  well  adapted  for  consumption  in 
Vegetarian  restaurants  as  well  as  for  families. 
— R.  Hecker. — There  is  no  reason  why  the 
large  quantities  of  apples  allowed  to  rot  under 
the  treesslionld  not  be  utilized  in  the  produc- 
tion of  concentrated  apple  juice,  an  invaluable 
antedote  for  liver  and  kidney  difficulties  so 
common  in  this  country.     No  apples  should  be 

VITAL  FOOD. 

By  masceratiufT  the  wheat  about  48  hours  in 
cold  water  it  will  become  delicately  soft  and 
palatable,  without  having  any  of  its  germin- 
ating reproductive  life  destroyed.  The  Brew- 
ery, distillery,  mill,  coflfee  and  teapot,  boilers, 
chemicals  and  ovens  destroy  the  life  in  food. 
That  life  should  be  preserved  and  be  present 
in  our  food  when  we  consume  it  if  we  would 
feed  the  brains  and  body  perfectly. 

A  Sound  Food  Standard  is  found  in  nuts, 
grains  and  fmit.  All  three  or  any  one  of  the 
three  will  in  their  natural  condition  bless 
the  consumer  with  health,  strength  and  long 
life  more  bountifully  than  any  other  products. 
A  change  to  such  diet  should  be  slow  and 
take  perhaps    one  and    two  years    for    some 


people. — H.    Aldeu  Spencer,  50    E.    9th  St., 
New  York. 

,  VEGETABLES. 

Probably  no  country  in  the  world  is  so  well 
supplied  with  vegetables  as  the  United  States. 
Most  of  the  cities  have  markets  with  a  great 
variety  of  fresh  vegetables  all  the  year  round 
as  the  coast  of  North  and  South  America 
possesses  all  the  varieties  of  climate  and 
coast  Commerce  is  extensively  engaged  in 
bringing  the  productions  of  both  tropical  and 
temperate  regions  to  those  places  where  a 
demand  exists.  The  quality  ot  vegetables 
vary  very  much  and  care  shonld  b«*  taken  to 
select  not  only  the  best  in  quality  butalsothe 
best  iu  regard  to  freshness  and  soundness. 
The  principal  v^etables  are : 

Artichokes,  Asparagus,  Beans,  Beets, 
Borecole,  Brussel's  Sprouts,  Brocoli,  Cabbage, 
Carrot,  Cauliflower,  Celety,  Sweet  Green  Com, 
Cress,  Cucumber,  Egg  Plant  or  Melongena, 
Endive,  Kale,  Kohl  Rabbi,  Leek,  Lettma, 
Melon,  Mushroom,  Mustard,  Nasturtium, 
Okra,  Onion,  Parsley,  Parsnip,  Peas,  Pepper, 
Potato,  Pumpkin,  Radish,  Rhubarb,  Salsify  or 
Oyster  Plant,  Sorrel,  Spinach,  Squash,  Sweet 
Potato,  Tomato,  Turnip,  Turnip  Tops,  Vege- 
table Marrow  Squash,    Walercress. 

Those  in  italic  can  be  eaten  without  cooking, 
principally  as  salads,  cold  slaw  or  as  garnishes 
to  other  dishes.  The  vitality  is  not  destroyed 
when  thus  eaten.  Beets,  Egg-plants,  Onions, 
Parsnips,  White  and  Sweet  Potatoes,  Squash 
and  even  Tomatoes  may  be  baked  with  advan- 
tage as  their  best  qualities  are  preserved 
better  that  way  than  by  boiling.  The  others 
are  cooked  best  by  steaming  or  stewing  as 
preferred.  Frying  is  not  generally  recom- 
mended for  vegetables  although  Beets,  Celery, 
Egg  Plant,  Onions,  Parsnips,  Potatoes  (white 
and  Sweet)  may  sometimes  be  cooked  in  a 
frying  pan    for  a  change. 

Where  vegetables  are  expensive,  care  shonld 
be  taken  not  to  waste  them :  the  green 
portion  of  celery  should  be  washed  clean  and 
if  not  wanted,  stewed  or  dried  for  future  use  in 
flavoring  soups;  the  tops  of  beets  and  rad- 
ishes can  be    used   as  greens. 

Aug. -Sep. 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


THE  BANANA. 

"There  are  two  varieties  of  the  Banana 
grown  in  Madeira,"  says  the  English  Mechanic. 
•  •  the  dwarf  banana  and  the  silver  banana.  The 
fornier  is  Musa  Cat'endishii  of  the  order  of 
Sciiaminece.  Itis  preferredforexportation." 
GRAFTING  WAX. 

Beeswax  yi  lb.,  Rosin  i  lb.  Melt  together 
with  enough  Linseed  Oil  to'soften  the  mix- 
tare.  The  auionnt  of  oil  will  reg'ulate  its 
softness.  Abont  a  teacnpfiil  will  be  enough 
oil.  When  the  mixture  is  melted,  stir  in  the 
oil  and  then  throw  the  whole  into  cold  water 
and  immediately  work  it.  If  it  becomes  hard 
reheat  and  add  Linseed  oil. — Nel.son  J.  Aker, 
Middlebnrg,  Scho.  Co.,  N.  Y.— Mr.  Aker  saya 
this  is  superior  to  the  wax  made  with  animal 
fat. 

RATIONAL    ACTION    ON    SUBSOILS. 

Plants  whose  roots  would  descend  deeply 
if  feasible,  are  the  very  ones  to  season  an 
inert  siibstratom  and  admit  the  gradual  deep- 
ening ofthe  customary  topCTUst  by  plow  or 
spade.  The  latent  value  of  subsoil  is  not 
obtained  thro'  the  conventional  treatmeat  of 
the  top  or  cultivated  soil  rarely  stirred  deeper, 
on  farms,  than  4  inches,  solid.  Yet,  the 
available  need  not  be  turned  down  and  the 
anprofitable  brought  up;  but  the  manure  may 
be  applied  to  the  strange  subsoil,  and  both 
with  the  surface  layer. 

The  Rev.  S.  Smith  turns  back  all  his  top- 
soil,  and  having  so  laid  bare  the  poor  subsoil, 
liberally  puts  on  manure,  and  has  it  forked 
therein.  So  be  provides  food  and  air  in  the 
right  place:  the  subsoil  for  the  deep  feeding 
rootcrops.  Hisrows  of  "Swedes  shake  hund.t" 
by  their  leaves  at  5  feet  intervals.  Gardeners 
understand  this  reason.  Of  conrse  the  ma- 
nure uught  to  be  good  by  making,  sheltering 
and  saving.  Salting  the  heaps  as  the  additions 
1897 


go  on,  and  are  firmed  by  tramping,  is  deemed 
by  authorities  to  be  advisable  :  to  fix  the 
ammonia.  Salt  preserves  animal  substances, 
but  rapidly  decomposes  succulent  vegetable 
matter.  Green  vegetable  matter  ferments, 
if  impacted,  dry  only  decays,  the  first  process 
is  like  quick  heat,  the  other  a  smothered, 
latent  disintegration. — R  decker. 

improvemenTOf  subsoil. 

Land  stripped  of  topsoil,  or  drained  bogs 
pared  of  material  for  compost,  may  be  fitted 
by  temporarily  availing  of  French  furze,  L^x 
Europaeus,  respectively  Ulex  nannus,  or 
dwarf  fiirze,  according  to  local  circumstances. 
Wild  earth  is  Ike  soil  where  this  plant  flour- 
ishes. It  is  a  spiny  shrub,  of  the  bean 
family,  abounding  itf  Western  Europe. 
There  the  young,  succulent  shoots  serve  as 
forage,  the  coarse,  woody  parts  are  used  for 
fuel.  It  hiis  many  branches  and  yellow 
flowers. 

The  previous  year's  growth  of  furze  may  be 
burnt  down  during  the  first  clear  weather  in 
spring,  in  case  the  plant  had  been  topped  and 
the  stick  or  stump  had  become  coarse,  the 
plants  looking  sickly.  The  young  sprouts 
shoot  through  the  ashes  from  the  level  of 
the  surface,  and  will  be  fit  for  use  the  same 
season.  This  operation  is  not  required  oftener 
than  once  in  ten  years.  This  crop,  wherever 
practicable,  never  fails,  is  affected  by  no 
weather,  and  therefore  is  safe  and  economical. 
So.  man,  assisted  by  the  atmosphere  and  other 
agents  creates,  raises  crops,  independent  of 
the  animal  kingdom.— R.  Hecker.— If  French 
furze  be  similar  to  the  furze  grown  in  Eng- 
land, it  is  a  legume  and  is  probably  like  other 
legumes,  rich  in  nitrogen  and  therefore  a 
valuable  fertilizer  for  plowing  in.  It  is  much 
coarser  than  clover,  peas  or  beans  and  is  very 
prickly  when  dry. 

157 


d  by  Google 


FOUR  APPLE    BLOSSOMS. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Dobson,  3225  Cottage  Grove  ave., 
Chicago,  have  fonr  children  ranging  from  four 
to  thirteen.  They  are  genuine  Vegetarians  as 
thejr  eat  no  meat,  bnt  nse  a  great  many  of  the 
health  fooda  for  sale  at  3314  Cottage  Grove 
are.,  where  the  Battle  Creek  SaniUrium  have 
a  branch.  I  am  using  Bromose  and  Caramel 
Cereal  Coffee.— Walter  G.  Weller,  144  37th 
St.,  Chicago. 

THE  CARD  OF  MEMBERSHIP. 
.  We  have  for  sometime  bad  an  engraving 
for  a  card  of  Membership  of  the  Apple  Blos- 
som SoaETY  and  we  only  waited  till  we  could 
get  it  printed  on  the  Vegetarian  press.  That 
time  has  now  come  and  all  Apple  Blossous 
can  have  a  copy  properly  certified  by  sending 
their  name,  address,  and  a  club  of  fonr  sub- 
scribers to  Food,  Hous  ft  Gakden  with  one 
dollar.  They  must  have  been  abstainers  from 
the  flesh  of  animals  at  least  3  months.  As 
an  additiona'  uducemeut  we  will  send  every 
Apple  Bu^ssok  for  taking  the  trouble  to  get 
up  a  civ.,  ne  copy  of  Food,  Home  &  Gab- 
den  for  year.  If  any  have  already  earned 
the  card  membership  by  sending  a  club  they 
will  please  write  to  remind  us  of  the  &ct  and 
we  will  see  that  they  get  a  card  on  their  noti- 
fying us  that  they  are  still  vegetarians  and 
intend  to  continue  to  abstain  from  the  flesh  of 
animals. 

A  VEGETARIAN  PICNIC. 

Our  yonng  friends  will  be  interested  to 
know  that  notwithstanding  a  very  wet  day, 
we  had  onr  picnic  at  Northwood  which  is  a 
new  suburb  of  Frankford,  &  Prankford  is  a 
suburb  of  Philadelphia,  so  Northwood  is  like 
a  grand  child  to  the  great  City  of  Philadel- 
phia. It  is  gradually  becoming  a  vegetarian 
settlement  as  we  have  now  three  houses  there 
where  no  bodies  of  animals,  birds  and  fishes 
are  eaten. 

By  referring  to  the  account  in  the  forepart 
of  this  No.,  of  F.  H.  tt  G.  onr  young  friends 
will  see  by  the  menu  what  it  was  we  had 
at  our  picnic.  The  preparation  for  it  was  by 
young  people,  assisted  kindly,  by  those  a  lit- 
tle older  and  more  experienced. 

When  it  was  first  announced  that  the  Veg- 
158 


etarian  Society  of  Philadelphia  was  to  have 
its  July  meeting  at  Northwood,  it  seemed  to 
be  concluded  at  once,  that  it  would  be  a 
picnic  and  one  lady  kindly  offered  to  send 
ice  cream.  Another,  her  sister,  would  make 
gems  and  this  started  the  ball.  Others  that 
could  not  help  so  conveniently  offered  money 
with  which  to  buy  supplies. 

A  commitee  met  almost  spontaneously  at 
io33PoulkrodSt.,andon  the  porch  all  was  ar- 
ranged. One  charming  girl  whom,  for  dis- 
tinction, we  call  Atary,  said  she  would  mak« 
the  lemonade  and  Ma  promised  to  make  the 
Graham  bread,  while  another  Mary  promised 
savory  sandwich^,  and  others  promised  egg- 
plant sandwiches.  Nut  sandwiches  were  also 
required  and  "Pa"  promised  to  grind  the 
nuts  and  the  Graham  flour  on  the  Vegetar- 
ian Society  mill,  and  so  ever}'thing  was 
soon  arranged. 

In  the  mean  time  political  influence  was 
eserted  and  tlt,^niew  Northwood  Park  was 
supplied  with  settees  by  the  city.  Every- 
body was  hoping  the  rain  would  hold  up 
and  the  sun  shine.  The  day  arrived ;  still 
rain  predominated  and  a  storm  in  the  after- 
noon occurred  about  the  time  appointed  for 
the  meeting,  keeping  many  away,  bnt  then 
it  cleared  up  and  the  sun  appeared.  So  we 
all  who  had  gathered  at  1023  concluded  to 
go  to  the  park  and  we  went  and  organized 
but  after  a  few  short  speeches,  we  adjourned 
to  1033.  There  we  bad  a  merty  time  with 
flute  and  organ.  The  picnic  that  was  piled 
on  one  or  two  tables,  was  served  to  gnests 
who  were  sitting  on  the  two  verandas,  in 
the  parlor,  dining-room,  hall  and  stairs. 

Although  there  were  many  nice  cakes  and 
delicacies,  the  plain  home-made  Graham 
bread  and  the  white  and  Graham  biscuits, 
seemed  to  be  taken  with  the  greatest  relisb, 
while  the  nut  sandwiches,  being  the  greatest 
novelty,  were  in  request  beyond  the    supply. 

It  was  an  occasion  long  to  be  remembered 
for  its  social  character  and  the  meeting  in  the 
evening  at  Mr.  Wright's  was  still  more  nn- 
merously  attended  and  the  whole  passed  off 
joyously. 

Aug.-Sep.,  1897 


DigiTizsdbyCoOgle 


3  p  2 

"  ■   o 

■Sis'* 

sis 

'I- 

m 
n~s 


db,  Google 


pood,  fiom^  apd  (iarde9 


THE    SEASONS. 

The  following  is  sent  us  by  Alma  A.  Dnn- 
can,  iri8W.  Water  St.,  PiquB,  Ohio.  (Alma 
is  II  years  of  ajite):  "How  beautifal  when  the 
spring  comes  and  the  flowers  are  peeping  up 
and  the  birds  are  everywhere  and  the  bees  are 
bnsy.  How  joyful  it  is  when  the  springtime 
comes.  And  then  Harvest  comes  laden  with 
its  grain,  fruit  and  vegetables.  How  thank- 
ful we  onght  to  be  to  God  the  giver  of  all. 
And  how  beautiful  and  green  the  grass  and 
trees  are,  when  all  the  trees  and  flowers  are 
all  out  in  full  bloom.  I  would  like  for  yon  to 
take  me  on  trial  for  one  year  as  an  Apple 
Blossom  an^  I  aid  going  to  be  a  Vegetarian 
and  leave  off  meat.  '  Excuse  all  mistakes." 
THE  PROPHECY  OF  BELLAMY. 

In  a  recent  issue  of  a  New  York  daily  I 
read  of  certain  methods  of  avoiding  the 
diseases  incident  to  onr  heated  terms.  The 
authorities  formulating  these  are  medical  men 
and  both  of  them  are  united  in  cautioning  the 
public  against  a  free  use  of  meat  during  ex- 
treme hot  weather. 

Slowly,  almost  nnconsciouly,  there  seems  a 
growing  sentiment  against  a  large  use  of 
animal  food.  Fruits  are  growing  more  and 
more  into  favor  as  a  prominent  feature  of  our 
daily  menus. 

These  are  enconraging  evidences  of  the 
good  time  coming  when  our  daily  repasts 
shall  no  longer  involve  a  violation  of  the  sixth 
commandment. 

Another  very  significant,  as  well  as  grati- 
fying, evidence  of  the  eventual  triumph  of 
our  cause  is  found  in  the  recent  volume  of 
Edward  Bellamy,  "Equality"  which  is  a 
sequal  to    "  Looking  Backn'ards". 

Mr.  Bellany  represents  that  in  the  year 
Two-Thousand  no  animals  are  used  for  food. 

The  hero  of  the  book  we  know  was  lulled 
into  a  hypnotic  sleep  in  the  year  1887.  About 
the  year  2000  he  is  resuscitated.  The  book 
like  its  predecessor  "Looking  Backward," 
details  the  wonderful  changes  the  intervening 
centuries  have  effected  upon  the  earth. 

Onr  hero    asks  a    physician  how  it  came 
about   that  the  use  of  animals  for  food  was 
160 


discontinued  and  he  was  informed  that  this 
change  was  effected  not  so  much  on  account 
of  the  vast  improvement  in  health,  beauty  and 
finegeneral  development  of  body  wrought  out 
through  the  disuse  of  flesh,  astbe  "effcctof 
the  great  wave  of  humane  feeling,  the  passion 
of  pity  and  compunction  for  all  suffering — in 
a  word,  the  impulse  of  tender-heartedness— 
which  was  really  the  great  moral  power  be- 
hind the  Revolution  .  .  .  The  sentiment 
of  brotherhood,  the  feeling  of  solidarity, 
asserted  itself  not  merely  towards  men  and 
women,  but  likewise  towards  the  humbler 
companions  of  onr  life  on  earth  and  sharers  of 
its  fortunes,  the  animals. 

"The  new  and  vivid  light  thrown  on  the 
rights  and  duties  of  men  to  one  another 
brought  also  into  view  and  recognition  the 
rights  of  the  lower  order  of  beings. 

"  A  sentiment  against  cruelty  to  animals  of 
every  kind  had  long  been  growing  in  civilized 
lands  and  formed  a  distinct  feature  of  the 
softening  of  manners  which  led  np  to  the 
Revolution. 

"This  sentiment  became  now  an  enthusi- 
asm. The  new  conception  of  our  relation  to 
the  animals  appealed  to  the  heart  and  capti- 
vated the  imagination  of  mankind. 

"Instead  of  sacrificing  the  weaker  races  to 
our  use  or  pleasure,  with  no  thought  for  their 
wellfare,  it  began  to  be  seen  we  should  rather 
as  elder  brothers  in  the  great  family  of  Nature, 
be,  so  far  as  possible,  guardians  and  helpers  to 
the  weaker  orders  whose  fate  is  in  our  hands, 
and  to  which  we  are  as  gods. 

"Do  you  not  see,  Julian,  how  the  prevalence 
of  this  new  view  might  soon  have  led  people 
to  regard  the  eating  of  their  fellow  animals 
as  a  revolting  practice,  almost  akin  to  cani- 
balismf" 

It  is  pleasant  to  know  that  this  volume  has 
been  translated  into  French,  German,  Italian, 
Spanish,  and  that  it  is  meeting  with  an  enor- 
mous sale. 

Thus  steadily  marches  our  glorious  cause  to 
a  serene  victory  in  the  coming  time. — Heniy 
Q.  Mack,  Dome  Farm  on  Hudson,  Catskill 
Station,  N.  Y. 

Aug. -Sep. 


.V  Google 


db,  Google 


DR.  CORA  A.  LEONARD-BLISS. 


d  by  Google 


pood,  |iom^  apd  (jardepi 


Vol.  I,  No.  la,  New  Series. 


OCTOBER,  1897.  Whole  Number,  84. 


DR.  CORA  A.  LEONARD-BLISS. 


WE  have  great  pleasure  in  presenting 
a  half-tone  engraving  of  one  of  our 
most  faithful  and  zealous  converts 
to  tlie  VegetHrian  feith  and  practice.  This 
lady  after  travelling  over  the  continent,  giving 
delight  to  thousands  by  her  select  reading, 
elot^tionary  recitations,  personal  gifts  and 
attractions,  hns  located  at  the  beautiful  City  of 
San  Diego,  California.  We  first  heard  from 
her  wlien  she  became  a  Vegetarian  some  five 
years  ago.  while  she  was  living  at  Detroit, 
Mich.  She  was  then  editing  a  small  periodi- 
cal devoted  to  several  prominent  reforms. 

We  frequently  heard  from  her  with  lists  of 
subscribers  to  Food,  Home  ft  Garden  which 
she  obtained  by  her  personal  influence  and 
efforts.  She  then  removed  to  Chicago  where 
she  continued  her  publication  and  her  valu- 
able aid  to  the  Vegetarian  cause.  Her  paper 
was  the  organ  of  the  "  National  Developing 
Circle,"  the  object  of  which  was  by  holding 
concerted  sittings  at  stated  times,  to  aid  in 
the  establishment  of  colleges  and  schools  of 
healing  and  developing  institutes  in  various 
sections  of  the  country ;  to  demand  that  the 
distillation,  importation  and  sale  of  intoxi- 
cants be  discontinued  ;  that  women  have  equal 
rights  with  men  in  every  respect  and  the 
right  to  equal  judgment  in  questions  of  moral- 
ity and  to  equal  wages  when  performing  the 
same  work ;  that  all  public  offices  be  filled  with 
those  of  both  sexes  who  regard  "public 
office  as  a  sacred  trust:"  that  all  caste  in 
society  shall  be  broken  and  that  it  shall  be 
the  duty  of  all  to  reach  out  the  hand  to  the 
unfortunate  and  lift  them  up  to  a  higher  plane 
of  morality  rather  than  turn  the  cold  shoulder 
and  drive  tliem  still  deeper  into  lower  condi- 
tions by  slander  and  abuse;  to  aovocate  that 
1897 


all  wars  shall  cease  and  quarrels  be  settled  by 
arbitration,  and  that  the  golden  rule  shall 
guide  in  all  work  upon  earth. 

Writing  from  San  Diego  recently  she  states : 
"I  was  converted  to  Vegetarianism  by  the 
perusal  of  one  copy  of  Food,  Home  ft  Gardbk 
sent  me  by  Mrs.  Chandler  of  Boston,  an 
earnest  worker  in  the  canse.  I  became  a 
thorough  convert  to  this  better  way  of  living 
within  an  hour,  and  have  taken  pleasure  in 
doing  all  that  I  can  for  its  spread  ever  since. 
I  believe  all  reformers  should  first  of  all  be- 
come vegetarians  that  they  may  the  better 
present  the  traths  to  this  world  with  pure 
hearis  axiA  clean  hands." 

Our  readers  will  readily  see  from  the  portrait 
how  successful  Vegetarian  practice  has  been  in 
promoting,  health,  vigor  and  vivacity,  and 
not  withstanding  the  trials  inseparable  from 
early  widowhood,  developing  and  preserving 
those  graces  and  that  sweetness  of  character 
which  constitutes  the  chief  element  of  all 
success. 

Among  a  host  of  newspaper  notices  we 
observe  that  the  Syracuse,  N.  Y.  Standard 
says:  "The  lady  is  prepossessing  and  highly 
gifted,  with  experience  to  develope  her 
numerous  gifts.  She  must  take  her  place 
among  the  eminent  readers  and  character 
delineators  of  the  rostrum.  Everybody  ap- 
peared delighted  and  a  universal  wish  seemed 
to  be  expressed  that  the  lady  should  come 
again."  By  other  papers  her  progress  from 
one  period  to  another  is  remarked  upon  ;  her 
entertainments  are  described  as  "  refined  and 
intellectual  ;"that  she  was  "young,  handsome 
and  ambitious:"  that  her  entertainments 
given  in  various  churches  were  "  highly 
appreciated:  "     that    "the  intonations  of  her 

■63 


db,  Google 


ppood.  ]ion^  a^d  (^rdei7  j 


voice  were  ricli  and  flexible,  flowing  over  an 
audience  with  astonishing  efiect,  holding  an 
entire  andience  spellbonnd,"  ftc. 

With  so  much  of  youth,  magnetic  power 
and  skilful  management  of  her  talents  we 
believe  the  cause  of  Vegetarianism  has  in  her 
a  most  effective  and  earnest  advocate. 


HOW  TO  OBTAIN  PROPER 
NOURISHMENT. 
A  book  published  by  the  "Ralston  Health 
Club"  says:  "Phosphorus,  which  is  the 
physical  source  of  all  vitality,  is  csseutial  to 
health,  and  is  often  lacking  in  the  system 
because  people  know  nothing  of  the  elements 
of  food  required  to  produce  health.  The 
great  importance  of  phosphorus  aud  its  gen- 
eral deficiency  have  encouraged  hundreds  of 
medicine  venders  and  patent  drug  proprietors 
to  place  upon  the  market  a  variety  of  phos- 
phorus mixtures  for  the  nerves  and  brain. 
It  is,  nevertheless,  a  fact  that  unorganized 
phosphorus  taken  into  the  system  not  only 
fails  utterly  to  assimilate,  but  is  positively 
injurious.  Any  person  who  knows  what 
foods  contain  phosphorus  in  organized  form, 
will  go  at  once  to  them.  Therefore  we  say 
that  it  is  the  duty  of  every  man,  woman,  and 
intelligentchildtoknow.  (i)  What  are  the 
elements  of  the  body.  (2)  What  are  their 
proportions.  (3)  What  foods  contain  these 
elements.  (4)  In  what  proportion.  Such 
knowledge  is  fully  as  important  aa  any  in 
life.  ...  Is  there  any  single  food  which 
contains  the  fourteen  elements ;  or  which,  in 
other  words,  supplies  carbonates,  phosphates, 
and  nitrates?  There  are  a  few  that  do  this, 
one  of  which  is  wheat.  The  nitrates  are  fonnd 
in  the  outside  shell ;  the  carbonates,  in  the 
main  portion,  constituting  about  %  of  the 
entire  grain,  and  the  phosphates,  in  the 
germ." 

I  might  say  the  same  of  getting  iron  into 
the  system  to  keep  it  toned  up  and  will  copy 
the  following  from  another  writer : 

Food  for  Impoverished  Blood. 

"The  only  way  to  enrich  the  blood  by  iron 
is   to  get  it  from  oar  food.    All  the  blood  in 


the  body  contains  about  forty  grains  of  iron." 
Wheat   contains  5  per  cent       Iron. 
Milk  "        2ji-iooo  parts 

Peas  "        8-1000  "  " 

Lentils      "        9-1000  "  " 

Strawberries      10-1000         "  " 

Applea  13-1000        "  " 

It  is  being  discovered  that  if  a  person  feel 
bilious,  tongue  is  coated  etc.  the  best  thing 
be  can  do  is  to  discard  all  food  for  two  days 
except  good  ripe  apples  and  eat  all  yon  wish  3 
or  4  times  a  day ;  then  the  third  day  some 
dry  foods  like  granola  or  health  crackers  and 
graham  or  wholewheat  rolls  may  be  taken. 

Milk  may  be  sterilized  and  like  meat  broth 
be  free  from  iive  germs  of  tuberculosis. 
Typhoid  etc.,  but  when  taken  is  a  perfect  food 
for  the  germs  already  in  the  stomach,  and 
thnstbey  multiply  very  rapidly.  But  if  fruit 
juice  be  taken  instead,  it  destroys  the  germs. 
Ofcourse  some  persons  cannot  nae  very  acid 
fruits  so  they  should  use  juice  horn  sweet 
apples,  huckleberries  etc. — S.  H.  Camahan, 
P.  M.,  College  Place,  Wash. 


BE  POSITIVE  &  FIRM. 
People  have  been  following  a  wrong  habit 
of  diet  from  the  the  ancient  times  of  neceasi^. 
Now  in  this  fruitful  time  of  modem  civiliza- 
tion, when  alt  manner  of  edibles  are  to  be 
had,  it  is  time  for  us  to  perceive  that  all  food 
begins  in  the  vegetable  kingdom  in  which  it 
is  pure  and  unable  to  cause,  or  transmit  die- 
ease:  for  vegetables  and  fruits  only  grow: 
they  do  not  travel,  work  or  otherwise  wear 
out  and  cause  their  tissue  to  become  saturated 
with  uric  acid,  which  is  a  poieon  to  the  hu- 
man system.  As  animals  do  this  their  fiesh  is 
not  fit  for  food,  for  which  it  is  really  an  un- 
wholesome substitute.  How  can  thoughtful 
people  cottsistantly  eat  the  flesh  of  animals 
and  drink  the  broth,  which  is  the  condensed 
bath-water,  in  which  the  perspiration  and 
other  excretia  of  an  animal's  corpse,  forms 
the  chief  feature.  When  dining  out  it  is  easy 
to  say  "No,  thank  yon,  I  do  not  eat  flesh," 
which  is  positive,  and  an  easy,  as  well  as 
eflective  way  of  declining. — A.  H.  Howe. 

October, 


d  by  Google 


g  pood,  }lom^  ai^d  (fivizj) 


HEALTH  AND  LONG  LIFE. 

He  odir  can  htdUi  and  Ions  llle  Hcur« 
Who  t*ke*  food,  ilr  nd  water  lliit  an  pure^ 
The  fint  from  fhtlt,  nuti,  griin  and  polae  obtain 
Freah  air  Iromlwaxti  ■□<■  water  from  the  rain. 

— H.  S  C. 


ANOTHER  DYSPEPTIC  SAVED. 
We  were  at  a  meeting  of  tbe  U.  Peace  Union 
the  other  day  wben  a  lady  an  eminent  peace 
woman,  wboni  we  knew  bad  been  for  years 
sofiering  and  believed  herself  nnable  to  be- 
come a  Vegetarian  as  her  physician  insisted 
on  her  eating  butchers'  meat,  banded  us  the 
following  paper  her  eyes  sparkling  with 
delight:  "I  have  long  been  a  victim  to  Dys- 
pepsia and  I  have  confined  my  diet  entirely  to 
nuts  and  fruits  now,  for  some  time,  with  very 
beneficial  results.  I  was  so  enthusiastic 
about  it  that  I  told  my  physician.  He  would 
not  believe  that  my  diet  had  anything  to  do 
with  it."  We  told  her  her  case  reminded  ns 
of  that  of  Sir  Isaac  Pitman.  At  the  age  of 
20  Isaac  was  a  broken  dowu  dyspeptic  and 
his  physician  insisted  on  his  eating  meat 
three  times  a  day  and  drinking  wine  to  keep 
up  his  strength.  He  followed  his  advice  but 
finding  he  only  grew  worse,  he  abandoned 
both  and  subsisted  on  Vegetarian  fare.  He 
gradually  gained  strength  and  he  has  never 
since  known  by  any  pain  that  he  had  a 
stomach.  , 

A  VEGETARIAN  FARM. 

"The  Lord's  Farm,  Woodcliffe,  N.  J.  "  (a 
very  beautiful  name.)  Mr.  Chaunce;  Roe 
writes:  "where  I  have  been  stoppinc  for 
over  a  year  has  recently  disposed  of  all  their 
fowls  and  cows  having  no  animals  on  the 
place  except  horses.  This  is  the  only  farm 
that  I  know  of  that  does  not  raise  sentient 
creatures  to  kill  themselves  or  for  anybody 
else  to  kill. 

' '  Do  you  know  of  any  other  farm  that  takes 
such  an  advanced  step  in  'living  and  let 
live?'  The  Lord's  Farm  people  do  not  eat  any 
kind  of  flesh,  neither  nse  milk,  butter,  eggs 
or  any  other  animal  product  in  their  cooking ; 
nor  drink  any  stimulating  preparations  such 
as  tea,  coffee,    cocoa,    etc.,  only  cold    water. 

1897 


They  have  a  large  variety  of  cereals,  vegeta- 
bles and  fruits,  which  they  think  are  much 
better  without  being  adulterated  by  grease  of 
any  character." 

We  hope  onr  correspondent  will  write  us 
more  particulars  of  this  interesting  farm. 
Give  us  the  names  of  the  residents  there. 
How  long  they  have  been  Vegetarians.  Pict- 
ures of  the  place  and  its  originators  &c. 


FROM  RELIGIOUS  PRINCIPLE. 
By  Geo.  W.  Smith. 
I  am  heartily  in  sympathy  with  the  Veg- 
etarian movement,  and  am  a  Vegetarian  from 
religious  principles  alone.  That  is  to  say,  as 
soon  as  I  became  iulty  convinced  that  the  veg- 
etable kingdom  furnished  better  food  than  tbe 
animal  kingdom,  it  was  conclusive  to  me, 
that,  in  my  desire  to  get  near  to  God  in  all 
respects,  here  was  a  chance  to  take  one  step. 
I  find  no  Scriptural  injunction  against  the 
Vegetarian  diet,  but  much  sacred  word  in  its 
favor.  It  is  delightful  to  me  to  think  that  no 
creature  has  to  suffer  in  order  that  I  shall  live. 
My  life  I  strive  to  make  one  round  of  self- 
denying  practices.  I  believe  that  Christianity 
is  practically  self-denial.  Jeaus  denied  him- 
self to  so  great  a  degree  as  to  lay  down  his 
life  for  his  friends.  I  do  not  see  how  any  one 
can  follow  his  command  to  be  "wiseasser- 
pents  and  harmless  as  doves,"  without 
adopting  the  Vegetarian  diet.  On  my  knees 
I  often  thank  God  for  the  privilege  and  enjoy- 
ment of  living  without  having  any  person  or 
any  creature  snSer  that  I  may  live ;  and  I 
devoutly  praise  His  holy  name,  that  he  has 
made  it  possible  for  every  man  so  to  live,  and, 
in  fact,  given  man  even  a  greater  share  of 
blessing  by  so  living,  in  improved  healtli, 
strength,  and  vitality,  and  in  spiritual  joy 
that  the  majority  are  in  no  position  to  appre- 
ciale.  I  now  begin  to  believe  that  the  use  of 
flesh  foods  is  productive  of  great  evil  in  the 
hearts  and  lives  of  men  ;  and  so  I  feel  as  if  I 
could  sympathize  with  St.  Paul  when  he  said 
"If  meat  make  my  brother  to  offend.  I  will 
eat  no  flesh  while  tbe  world  standeth,  lest  I 
make  my  brother  to  offend." — Hartford,  Conn 

165 


d  by  Google 


Ppood,  ^om^  apd  (jarde9  i 


Vegetarianism  baa  extended  amazingly 
since  I  called  the  first  meeting  in  this  city  a 
few  years  ago.— Mra.  Le  Favte,  Chicago. 

SOLD  HIS  GUN. 

After  I  received  your  second  paper  in  '94 

I  saw  you  were  right  in   your  views  so  I  sold 

my  gun  and  made  peace  with    my    animal 

friends.— Scott  C.  Jackson,  Port  Hudson,  La, 


SELF— THE  DECEIVER. 
Animal's  tastes  are  right.  But  mankind 
mtist  use  good  judgment  for  sin  has  perverted 
our  Tastes  so  that  the  Old  Deceiver  makes  us 
believe  tbat  poisonous  things  are  good  for  our 
health.  But  he  cannot  fool  animals  that  way. 
We  often  eat  or  drink  toomuch,  or  something 
tbat  is  not  good  for  us,  and  then  the  Deceiver 
will  say  eat  or  drink  a  little  more  and  more 
until  the  glutton  ordmnkard  becomes  a  raving 
maniac. — Hansen.  Pasadena,  Cal. 


THE  STIMULATION    OF  FLESH-FOOD. 

Susanna  Dodds,  M.  D.,  Dean  of  the  Hy- 
gienic College,  writes:  "The  waste  matter 
that  it  (meat)  contains,  serves  as  an  artificial 
stimulus,  and  the  individual  feels  strengthen- 
eil  for  the  time  being,  *ery  much  as  the  dmm 
drinker  fancies  he  is  stronger  while  the  alcohol 
is  in  his  system  and  the  vital  organs  are  trying 
to  expel  it.  But  as  soon  as  the  struggle  is 
over  it  is  followed  by  a  reaction,  and  there  is 
a  period  of  exhaustion.  The  habitual  use  of 
meat  prepares  the  palate  for  other  and 
stronger  stimulants.  These  follow  in  regular 
gradation,  each  seeming  to  call  for  the  other. 
So  long  as  one  obstains  from  the  use  of  meat, 
there  is  no  danger  ofbecominga  drunkard." 


THE  SPORT    OF  KILLING. 

Rev,  David  Spring's  Sermons  published-by 
Neely,  Chicago  contain  many  hints  in  regard 
to  killing  sensitive  creatures.     On  p.  117: 

"One  of  our  excellent  local  clergymen 
preached  recently  against  such  an  amusement 
as  shooting  birds  for  a  prize.  All  would  have 
been  well  had  not  the  clercynian  entered  into 
a  sweet  defense  of  the  gentlemanly  hunters 
who  bring  down  a  few  birds  for  table  use.  He 
rejoiced   in  the  sport  of  dog  and  gun.     The 


sermon  showed  how  difficult  it  is  for  a  moral 
principle  to  make  a  start.  The  pigeons  which 
fall  at  the  shooting  matches  are  all  sold  for 
the  table.  It  remains  forthe  pulpit  to  prove 
that  to  shoot  a  bird  out  in  the  weeds  and  poud 
lilies  is  any  nobler  than  to  rob  it  of  life  within 
the  limits  of  a  city." 


THE  EATING  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTS. 
Editor  Food,  Home  ft  Garden  : — It  appears 
that  a  good  many,  if  not  a  majority,  of  Veg- 
etarians eat  eggs,  and  milk,  justifying  such  a 
course  on  the  ground  that  they  are  eating 
only  the  products  of  animals,  and  thus  not 
necessitating  the  killing  of  them.  I  confess 
that  I  have  been  doing  that  myself)  but  I  do 
not,  by  any  means,  feel  as  though  I  have 
been  acting  consistently  in  so  doing,  t  would 
like  the  opinion  of  you  and  some  of  your  read- 
ers, on  the  subject.  Allow  me  to  say  tbat  it 
is  impossible  to  eat  eggs  and  milk  without 
necessitating  the  killing  of  thousands  of  birds 
and  animals.  In  order  to  have  a  flock  of  bens 
one  is  obliged  to  batch  as  many  male  birds  as 
he  does  female  ones,  which  must  be  killed, 
A  hen  will  not  lay  eggs  profitably  after  the 
third  year,  on  an  average,  and  to  keep  all  the 
old  birds  till  they  die  and  all  the  numerous 
males  that  are  unavoidable,  would  make  a 
poultry  y^rd  but  little  more  than  a  hospital 
for  sick  and  aged  fowls ;  the  cost  of  running 
which  would  be  more  than  an  ordinary  man 
could  afford.  It  would  be  much  the  same  with 
cows.  Cows  are  continually  getting  past  the 
age  of  giving  milk  and  new  ones  muat  take 
their  places.  The  male  calves  as  well  as  the 
old  cows  must  be  disposed  of  by  killing  in 
some  way.  Then  hens  and  cows  would  not 
produce  eggs  and  milk  in  such  large  quanti- 
ties as  they  do  now,  nnles.<i  the  work  of  culling 
out  the  unprofitable  ones  should  continue. 
This  is  the  only  problem  in  Vegetarianism 
that  troubles  me;  and  if  I  were  alone  I  would 
settle  it  very  quickly  by  discontinuing  the  use 
of  animal  products ;  but  as  there  are  others 
depending  upon  me  for  support  who  do  not 
feel  this  way  I  am  puzzled  as  to  what  course 
to  take  — ^J,  A.  Wilson,  Amesbury,  Mass. 

October, 


d  by  Google 


;  pood,  jlom^  apd  (^rde9 


SPREADING  VEGETARIAN  PRINCIPLES. 
Mary  E.  Callarman,  Buffalo,  Kansas  writes : 
"We have  been  trying  a  vegetable  diet  in  our 
family  about  eighteen  months  and  with  the 
exception  of  batter  and  eggs,  use  no  animal 
food.  We  would  not  return  to  meat  eating 
for  any  consideration.  As  far  as  I  know  we 
are  tlie  only  vegetarians  in  the  county.  I 
hope  Vegetarianism  may  soon  be  spread  to 
every  part  of  the  world." — There  is  one  way 
to  accomplish  this  and  it  is  to  circulate  in- 
formation on  the  subject.  Send  Food,  Home 
a  Garden  to  every  home  in  America  and  in  a 
few  years  Aiuerica  will  lead  the  world  into 
perpetual  peace  with  all  sensitive  animals  as 
well  as  with  all  nations.  There  will  always 
be  danger  of  war  while  flesh  and  blood  are 
eaten  as  daily  food.  We  will  supply  the 
material  for  this  work  at  cost  if  our  friends 
will  furnish  that  cost. 


SATISFIED    WITH  IMPROVED  DIET. 

The  longer  I  practice  vegetarianism  the 
more  pleased  I  am  with  the  results,  and  the 
more  I  wonder  how  I  ever  could  have 
enjoyed  a  meat  diet  for  so  many  years  and 
never  thought  of  there  being  cruelty  and  suf- 
fering involved  for  the  dumb  and  disease  and 
sickness  for  myself  through  such  a  habit. 
The  scent  of  boiling  and  roasting  meats  used 
to  be  very  pleasing  to  nie  as  well  as  the  taste. 
Now  the  sight  of  raw  flesh  is  very  repugnant, 
and  the  scent  of  it  while  cooking  is  extremely 
disagreeable,  almost  sickening. 

I  have  no  desire  nor  craving  for  flesh  of  any 
kind,  and  I  recoil  with  a  shudder  from  the 
idea  of  ever  again  resorting  to  the  habit  of 
Uking  the  life  of  the  helpless  for  the  snppoit 
of  my  own  life.  When  I  look  around  me  and 
see  the  bountiful  supply  of  food  and  such  great 
varieties  in  the  vegetable  kingdom,  it  is  with 
wonder  and  amazement  that  I  ask  myself, 
what  more  do  I  need.'  It  is  with  great  satis- 
faction I  answer  that  I  need  nothing  more, 
knowing  well  that  the  proper  nourishment 
may  be  obtained  from  nuts,  fruits,  and  grains 
thus  sparing  the  lives  of  other  sensitive 
creatures. — Mrs.  R.  A.  Gale,  Rogersville,  Mo. 
1897 


HEALTH,    HUMANITY  AND  JUSTICE. 

F.  H.  ft  G.  is  read  with  interest  in  our 
household,  being  Vegetarians  of  nearly 
fifteen  year's  standing,  we  naturally  are  de- 
sirous of  seeing  the  good  work  go  on,  and 
think  there  cannot  be  too  much  said  upon 
the  subject  to  awaken  the  humane  in  the 
hearts  of  the  people. 

Stomach  Vegetarians  arc  not  to  be  con- 
demned. We  style  them  such  from  the  fact 
that  their  motive  for  abstaining  from  flesh, 
is  the  hopeof  gaining  better  health. 

Most  of  ns  began  from  the  health  stand- 
point, and  it  is  well  to  al>stain  from  such 
motives.  Alt  are  benefitted  on  the  selfish 
plain,  for  they  are  escaping  the  diseased 
meat  and  the  stimulation  of  flesh  which  is 
a    great      step    towards      purity    of    living. 

From  this  the  questioning  attitude  is 
reached  and  the  consciousness  of  needless 
snffifring  takes  possession  of  the  mind  and 
flesb  eating  becomes  revolting.  The  grati- 
fication of  the  appetite  at  such  a  cost  is 
simply  cruelty. 

As  love  begets  love  so  kindly  feelings  ex- 
pand and  open  to  the  vision  a  broader  vis- 
ion a  broader  view.  We  see  God  as  life,  and 
life  to  every  creature  is  a  joy.  We  see  ani- 
mals struggle  to  preserve  life,  showing 
something  like  of  our  own  unwillingness  to 
to  die.  But  the  horror  of  being  butchered  is 
unbearable!  At  this  stage  we  see  the  effect 
of  cultivated  appetite.  The  wrong  of  bringing 
animals  here  to  be  slaughtered! — blood- 
thirsty murderers  we  are! 

Then  "Thou  shalt  not  kill"  looms  up 
with  all  the  mercy  the  Master  taught, 
and  love  having  entered  the  heart  our  heav- 
en upon  earth  has  beg^n  in  as  much  as 
we  have  forever  eliminated  murder  and 
with    it    disappears     the    appetite    for  flesh. 

Not  wishing  ever  to  be  the  slayer,  we  no 
longer  cause  our  brother  to  offend  by  killing 
that  we  may  eat.  Converts  to  Vegetarianism 
arrived  at  this  degree  aie  lasting.  The  in- 
spiration of  love,  mercy  and  justice  has 
erected  a  structure  too  pure  to  be  again  de- 
filed by  taking  life. — Mrs.  Campbell,  Cal. 
167 


d  by  Google 


P  pood,  }1om^  apd  Qardep 


pood,  J^om^  apd  QardeQ 


PHnji.DELPHIA.     OCT.     1897, 

VcseUriui  aoetetr  of  Ajaerica, 

PvUKbm 

0    Chotno 

St. 

aav.    HBNKT    S.   CLUBB, 

S(3itor. 

yor. 

KrtloD,   10 

ttntt. 

We  hope  ail  our  young  Apple  Blossom 
frienda  will  write  to  our  new  Apple  Blossom 
Editor. 


We  would  be  glad  if  our  nnmeioiia  lady 
'  friends  would  write  more  for  the  Home  De- 
partment of  their  paper. 

We  hope  to  give  increased  attention  to  the 
garden  feature  of  our  Magazine  and  we  re- 
quest all  who  have  gardens  to  write  us 
their  experience  and  suggestions.  Good  fruit 
and  vegetables  are   essential    to     Vegetarian 


The  experience  of  Mrs.  Callerman  in  Kan- 
sas, MiB.  Gale  in  Missouri,  and  Mrs. 
Campbell  in  California,  all  appear  on  page 
167  and  are  strongly  confirmatory  of  the 
position  taken  in  F.,  H.  a  G.  as  to  the 
joyful    effects  of  living    without  killing. 

Japanese  Rice  is  said  to  contain  a  larger 
proportion  of  Nitrogen  than  Carolina  Rice. 
We  have  obtained  a  sample  of  it  from  a  Ja- 
panese store  in  Philadelphia.  It  is  a  shorter 
kernel  than  the  Carolina  variety  but  it  is 
broader.  If  the  correspondent  who  wanted 
to  know  about  it  will  send  his  address,  we 
will    let    him  know    where  to  get  it. 

The  article  by  Theodore  Koss  on  p.  173  on 
Water  Cress  will  be  read  with  intere.st.  It 
is  believed  that  the  high  standard  of  health 
in  London  is  largely  kept  up  by  the  water 
cress  which  is  retailed  all  over  the  city  every 
morning  by  little  girls  whose  musical  voices 
crying  "W-a-t-e-r  c-r-e-s-s-e-s"  fill  the  air 
with     sweet     sounds. 


This  month  we  present  portraits  of  two 
zealous  Vegetarian  ladies:  one,  Mrs.  Cora  A. 
Leonard-Bliss  living  in  California  and  the 
other  her  friend  Mrs.  Jane  D.  Chnrcbill.  Both 
are  eminent  reformers  possessing  talent  and 
personal  influence  of  a  high  order.  Next 
month  we  hope  to  present  a  portrait  of  that 
noted  antislavery  reformer,  Parker  Pillsbury, 
and  another  of  Dr.  Peebles  who  has  just  re- 
turned  from  his  voyage  around  the  world. 
Both  are  zealous  Vegetarians. 


The  importance  of  phosphorous  is  well 
handled  by  Mr.  S.  H.  Camahan  on  p.  164. 
Wheat  is  one  of  the  few  foods  contain- 
ing phosphorous  and  other  elements  in  proper 
proportions.  The  value  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society  mill  consists  largely  in  its  enabling 
us  to  secure  all  the  elements  required  to 
build  up  the  body  from  wheat.  If  we  pur- 
chase flour  or  bread  ready  made  we  do  not  get 
all  these  elements  and  we  may  get  what  we 
do  not  want.  Bakers'  bread  nsnally  has  lard 
in  it. 


The  Illustrated  Bible  which  we  advertise  is 
the  production  of  the  Cambridge  Press  and 
combines  the  finest  typography  with  the  new- 
est formof  artistic  illnstration;all  the  modem 
appliances  for  the  reproduction  of  real  works 
of  art  being  employed.  The  old  Bible  is  thus 
broughtout  in  the  most  artistic  dress  and  made 
more  attractive  and  interesting  than  ever 
before.  The  low  price,  combined  with  the 
subscription,  could  only  be  obtained  by  our 
bearing  the  expense  of  advertising.  We  hope 
our  friends  will  sustain  this  effi>rtand  thereby 
benefitthemselves. 


THE  ANIMAL  PRODUCT  QUESTION. 

Our  good  friend  Wilson  at  Amesbury,  Mess, 
is  disturbed  about  the  necessity  of  killing  male 
birds  and  beasts  and  poultry,  and  cows  past 
useful  stage  by  using  eggs,  butter  and  milk. 
We  publish  this  article  as  it  introduces  a  sub- 
ject worthy  of  serious  consideration.  As  to 
how  far  this  necessity  of  killing  exists  and 
how  easy  it  would  be  to  give  up  animal  pro- 
ducts in  view  of  the  vegetable  butters  and 
October, 


d  by  Google 


^Ipood.  ]\o(n^  apd  Qardep 


other  nnt  foods  aire  questions  on  whkli  our 
friends  are  invited  to  think  and  write.  We 
believe  entire  independence  of  the  animal  is 
only  a  question  of  time. 

THE  SYNOPSIS. 
We  are  glad  that  our  friends  are  seeing  the 
impoitance  of  having  this  compendium  at 
their  elbow  to  slip  into  their  letters.  It  is 
an  experiment,  and  if  encouraged  will  be  fol< 
lowed  by  other  tracts  of  similar  convenient 
size  for  letter  postscripts.  The  ounce  weight 
postage  gives  good  opportunity  for  enclosing. 

SAN  CLEMENTE  ISLAND. 
Mr.  J.  H.  Freeman  writes  from  the  island 
of  CataliuR,  Cal.,  that  the  best  island  for  a 
Vegetarian  settlement  or  colony  is  San 
Qemente.  It  only  requires  irrigation  by  wells 
and  mills  to  make  it  productive.  It  is  3ox6 
miles  and  he  aoderstaDda  U.  S.  would  survey 
it  for  homesteads  if  sixty  fomilies  desire  to 
setUe  on  it. 


DEORGANIZED  SUBSTANCES. 
I  have  not  the  least  desire  for  condiments 
orany  sort,  appetizing  stimulants ;  just  sim- 
ple fruits,  and  plain  cooked  food  of  Vegetable 
origin.  I  believe  all  deorganized  substances 
•re  bad  for  digestion. — Geo.  W.  &x)wn,  North 
Danville,  N.  H. — We  do  not  think  deorgan. 
ized  sabstances  are  necessarily  bad  for  diges- 
tion. Is  not  all  food  deorganized  before  it  is 
digested?  Air  and  water  are  not  organized 
and  yet  they  are  not  bad  to  assimilate  and  are 
imiMrtant  elements  of  nourishment. 


OUR  PLANS. 
To  perfect  onr  plans  we  hope  to  commence 
tbe  next  volume  with  new  type ;  new  head 
lines  for  each  page  and,  if  possible,  a  better 
grade  of  paper.  This  magazine  must  be  as 
good  as  any  other,  and  we  ask  for  the  co-op- 
eratioo  of  aii  our  friends  so  that  the  burden 
of  these  expences  shall  be  as  light  as  possible 
on  those  who  do  the  work  without  other 
remnneration  than  the  satisfaction  of  the 
god  accomplished.  We  have  a  good  many 
friends  yet  to  hear  from  on  the^i.co  for  four 
subscription  plan.  Is  it  possible  that  there 
1897 


is  a  vegetarian  in  this  land  of  plenty  who  can- 
not afford  fi.oo  to  Start  four  persons  on  the 
road  to  right   living? 

VEGETARIAN  COLONIZATION. 
The  Fhila.  Record  describes  a  colony  of 
V^etarians  at  Oramenbnrg  near  Berlin, 
Prussia  as  founded  in  1893  by  seven  enthusi- 
asts and  as  having  gradually  grown  to  47 
homesteads  where  37  &milies  and  10  single 
have  built  houses  aud  raise  their  own  vege- 
tables; have  planted  35000  fruit  trees  and 
15000  berry  bushes,  having  the  entire  property 
surrounded  by  a  hedge  of  hazel  nuts  or  fil- 
berts. They  obtain  good  prices  for  their 
surplus  vegetables  and  fruit  and  are  doing 
well  financially.  In  fact  they  obtain  higher 
prices  than  neighboring  farmers  on  account 
of  the  superior  character  of  the  vegetables 
they  raise.  This  being  the  result  of  using 
mineral  and  vegetable  in  preference  to  animal 
fertilizers.  Why  could  not  this  be  done  as 
well  near  Philadelphia,  New  York,  Chicago 
orany  of  our  large  cities? 

PHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 
At  the  monthly  meeting,  September  zoth. 
Rev,  Dr.  A.  T.  de  Learsy  being  absent,  the 
chair  was  taken  by  Rev.  H.  S.  Clubb  who 
opened  the  meeting  in  the  usual  form  by  in- 
vocation. The  minutes  were  read  by  the 
Secretary,  Miss  Emma  I.  Bettes,  and  ap- 
proved. The  Chairman  opered  the  subject  of 
a  Vegetarian  Restaurant  in  Philadelphia. 
Stated  that  such  restaurants  were  profitably 
conducted  in  Manchester,  England,  which 
was  no  better  or  bigger  city  than  Philadelphia 
and  he  believed  there  was  even  a  better  open- 
ing in  Philadelphia  for  such  an  enterprise. 
Mr.  Thomas  James,  Mr.  Chas.  Koenig.  Dr.  J. 
Harvey  Lovell,  Sarab  Hall,  Mr.  Baldoser, 
Miss  Amy  Nichols,  Rev.  Amanda  Deyo  and 
I.  John  Ransom  discussed  the  tinbject  in  vari- 
ous phases  and  on  motion  the  subject  was 
continued  for  the  nejct  meeting  to  be  held  on 
the  evening  of  Friday  Oct.  istli  when  it  is 
expected  Dr.  de  Learsy  will  present  his  views. 
All  interested  iu  establishing  a  Restaurant 
are  invited  to  attend. 

169 


d  by  Google 


HUMANITY     IN     JAPAN. 

The  little  birds  opon  tlie  trees, 


Tfait  float  about 


Tllh  c 


Were  all  u  good  as  Japaane  I 

KATHERINE. 

I  am  a  Vegetarian  and  m;  little  daughter 
Katberiiie.  nearly  six  years  old,  has  always 
been  a  Vegetarian.  She  is  in  perfect  health 
and  has  never  had  any  children's  diseases. — 
Harriet  C.  Stein,    Seattle,     Wash. 

OUR    APPLE    BLOSSOM  EDITOR. 

Mr.  Walter  S.  Weller  who  wrote  the  "Bam 
Yard  Convention"  in  July  no.,  resides  at  144 
Thirty-seventh  St.,  Station  M,  Chicago,  Ills. 
He  will  be  glad  to  receive  letters  from  Applb 
Blossoms  and  will  prepare  them  for  publica- 
tion when  adapted  for  that  pur|>ose.  He  will 
also  be  happy  to  write  to  those  Apple  BLa=- 
sous  who  desire  information  and  assistance. 

"THE  BARN    YARD  CONVENTION." 

Miss  Oakey  writes  of  our  friend  Weller's 
"Bam  Yard  Convention":  "It  is  an  excel- 
lent Apple  Blossom  production."  We  see 
it  is  reproduced  in  the  Vegetarian  Messenger; 
the  Herald  of  the  Golden  Age  and  we  believe 
in  other  English  publications. 

It  is  said  the  "Petition  of  the  Birds"  writ- 
ten by  Senator  Hoar  of  Mass.,  and  sent  to 
the  Legislature  of  his  State  led  to  ihe  enact- 
ment of  the  law  making  it  a  crime  to  wear 
dead  birds  on  the  hat  or  bonnet.  Some  ladies 
in  Mass,  have  been  fined  $10.00  and  costs  for 
this  offence. 

A    VEGETARIAN  CAT. 

All  Apple  Blossoms  will  be  glad  to  know 
that  Miss  E.  I.  Oakey  has  succeeded  in  making 
a  Vegetarian  of  her  cat  "Marlborough"  or 
Marl  as  he  is  called  for  brevity.  He  has  been 
brouglit  up  on  miik  and  whole-wtieat  bread. 
Miss  O.  who  has  recently  returned  to  Phila- 
delphia, where  she  has  taken  up  her  residence, 
writes:  "It  would  give  any  of  our  good  Veg- 
etariatis  pleasure  to  see  "Marl"  eat  with  such 
evident  satisfaction  plenty  of  whole-wheat 
bread  three  times  a  day.  He  is  a  most  gentle 
little  puss  nearly  five  months  old  and  plump 
for  a  young  cat  in  summer  weather.  He  eats 
from  my  hand  and  cries  when  he  thinks  the 

170 


hour  for  meals  has  arrived  in  order  to  indnce 
me  to  sit  down  quickly  that  he  may  pounce 
into  my  lap  and  be  fed  with  whole-wheat  bread 
held  in  the  palm  of  my  hand." 

APPLE  BLOSSOMS  SUMMERING. 
Writing  from  Weller's  Grove,  Stone  Lake, 
Family  Summer  Resort,  La  Porte,  lod.  Aug. 
16,  1897,  Walter  S.  Weller  writes:  "Dear 
Apple  Bixissous  :  I  am  in  this  lovely  summer 
resort ;  and,  although  the  menu  is  not  Vege- 
tarian, I  find  enough  that  I  can  eat. 

The  Vegetarian  mode  of  life  makes  children 
a  great  deal  better.  Two  of  my  little  Vegeta- 
rian friends  are  here ;  and  they  are  among  the 
nicest  children  that  are  here.  In  contrast  to 
these,  a  little  girl  whose  sister  is  a  flesbeeter 
was  showing  me,  this  morning,  a  place  on  her 
wrist  where  her  sister  had  pinched  her  ;  and 
she  said  it  had  been  bleeding. 

"There  is  one  lovely  girl  in  La  Porte,  al- 
though she  is  not  yet  a  Vegetarian  but  judging 
from  the  sweetness  of  her  disposition  and 
character  I  expect  she  will  soon  become  one  as 
it  seems  out  of  character  for  her  any  longer 
to  eat  the  flesh  of  her  animal  friends." 
THREE  YEARS    AN  APPLE  BLOSSOM. 

After  three  years  of  experience  with  the 
Vegetarian  diet  I  will  write  and  tell  you  how 
I  like  it.  1  have  had  much  pleasure  in  eating 
vegetables,  nuts  and  fruits,  and  am  very  sure 
I  have  better  health  than  flesheaters.  I  rejoice 
in  the  thought  that  my  poor  dumb  friends  do 
not  have  to  suffer  death  that  I  may  eat.  I,ani 
always  trying  to  convince  others  of  this  com- 
pleted religion  ;  I  have  two  seekers,  they  both 
eat  things  cooked  with  meat  and  one  of  Ihem 
tastes  it  occasionally,  but  I  live  in  hopes  that 
they  will  be  fully  converted, 

I  do  not  think  tliey  eat  any  meat  in  heaven, 
nor  do  I  think  that  Ihe  true  Christian  can 
afford  to  cause  the  innocent  to  suffer. 

I  am  very  glad  that  I  ever  came  in  contact 
with  your  little  paper  because  it  was  by  its 
means  that  I  was  converted  to  this  holy 
principle.  Your  little  Apple  Blossom— 
Vera  A.  Strickles,  Solomon,  Kansas, 
July  28,  1897- 

October, 


d  by  Google 


MENU  FOR  A  DAY  IN    OCTOBER. 


Soulheni   Rice   Bread. 

DINNER. 

S«r1M  Rnnnet  Bean   Soup. 

Olucd  Sw«t  PoMton.                   Stciied  Sqauh. 

Dutchos  Pcan. 

Browi 

11  Bread.                                        CereiU  Cotfet. 

THA. 

Sliced  Tomatoe..             I^lluee. 

Nul  Sandwichei. 

Ol!»e».            Cottage  Cheese, 

Gtaham  Gemi. 

Tig 

Pudding.                                              Peach  Jelly 

Grape  3ymp. 

From  Mln  Amy  Nkhola,  Pfaitadelphla. 

Peach  Jelly. — Take  peeling's  of  one  peck  of 
hard  peaches;  cover  with  3  pints  of  water; 
boil  until  very  soft;  strain  through  very 
heavy  cloth ;  measure  the  juice ;  boil  20  min. ; 
add  for  each  pint  of  the  juice  n  pint  of  sugar; 
boil  again  until  it  ia  firm  enough;  pour  into 
glasses  and  cover  with  waxed  paper.  The 
peaches  can  be  used  for  stewing  or  canning. 


RECIPES. 

Pig  Pudding. — }4  lb.  figs,  washed  and 
chopped  fine,  2  teacups  grated  bread  crumbs, 
^  cup  sugar,  }4  cup  sweet  cream,  i  cup  sweet 
milk,  fiour  to  make  batter.     Steam  3  hours. 

Stuffed  Apples. — Select  as  many  apples  as 
required,  being  careiiil  to  have  them  of  the 
same  size.  With  a  long,  slim  knife  take  out 
the  core.  Prepare  a  filling  of  grated  bread- 
crumbs, a  small  lump  of  butter,  sugar  to  taste 
and  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Rub  all 
well  together,  fill  the  hollow  in  the  apples 
with  it,  set  them  in  a  hot  oven  and  let  them 
bake  until  done. 

Southern  Rice  Bread  — Put  two  cupfula  of 
boiled  rice  into  a  bowl,  add  twocnpfulsof  milk 
and  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Sift 
in  gradually  i  cupful  of  flour,  add  14  teaspoon 
of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  (melted)  and 
the  whites  of  the  eggs,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Turn  into  a  well-greased,  shallow  pan  and 
bake  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
1897 


VEGETARIAN  HELP. 
If  sensible,  good  women  only  knew  hi}w 
highly  tliey  would  be  esteemed  if  they  were 
good,  competent  Vegetarian  Cooks,  Kouse- 
keepers  &c.  they  would  busy  themselves  in 
perfecting  their  knowledge  and  ability  in 
Vegetarian  Cookery.  There  are  severnl  good 
cookeries  and  a  very  little  practice  would  with 
the  aid  of  the  American  Vegetarian  Cookery 
enable  them  to  provide  satisfactorily  for  a 
Vegetarian  family.  We  frequently  have  letters 
asking  forsuch  help  and  if  competent  persona 
would  write  ns  and  state  their  qualifications 
and  expectations,  we  could  frequently  ^et 
them  desirable  positions.  One  gentleman 
living  in  a  pleasant  seaside  residence  in  a 
healthy  locality  writes:  "We  would  like  to 
find  a  yoonp  woman  of  20 — 30  who  is  progress- 
iveand  wishes  to  train  herself  in  music  or  some 
other  branch,  who  would  like  a  home  near 
N.  Y.  City  while  she  is  studying  and  would 
be  willing  to  excliange  a  certain  amount  of 
work  for  home  or  who  would  give  more  time 
and  receive  wages  in  addition.  We  feel  that 
to  carry  out  our  ideas  about  having  only  one 
solid  meal  a  day  with  fruil  for  breakfast,  and 
light  noon  meal,  we  must  have  a  helper  who 
is  inaympathy  with  simple  living," 

171 


d  by  Google 


ppood.  Jlom?  a9d  <iarde9  j 


ambrSsia. 

This  is  the  name  of  a  new  nnt  product 
invented  by  the  Sanitas  Pood  Co.,  Battle 
Creek,  Micb.  It  is  a  very  rich  and  delicate 
article  resembling  honey  iu  appearance  and 
flavor,  but  mnch  more  nutritrive  and  ad- 
mirably adapted  for  dyspeptic  invalids  to 
restore  their  mucuous  membrane  to  its  nor- 
mal condition. 

"NUT    COCOA." 

Nut  cocoa  is  a  readily  assimilable  combi- 
nation of  cocoa  proper  and  of  pulverized 
groundnuts  or  earth-nuts  (Arachis  Hypogaa) 
alias  "Cameroon  nuts,"  prepared  by  a  com- 
petent chemist  in  Leipsic,  Germany.  The 
official  analysis  by  a  noted  expert  reads 
thus: 

Nnt  cocoa.     Common  cocoa. 
Nitrog:e&ous  extract    34.04  1704 

Pat,  cocoa  butter  or  oil  23.46  35. 

Starch   »c.  27-44  39o7 

Fibrin  (woody   fibre)      4-44  5-3 

Water  3.59  5.3 

Ashes, (incl.  alkali  3.34)  6.63  5. 

Theabromin  1.05  3.3 

This  product  is  put  up  in  convenient  pack- 
ages of  varying  size  and  weight,  goes  far  and 
is  not  costly.  The  flavor  imparted  by  this 
Cameroon  nut  is  perceptible,  bnt  agreeable. 
The  nut  is  rich  in  albumen,  and  of  interest 
to  [tersons  requiring  a  preponderance  of  this 
element. — R.   Hecker. 

Arachis  Hypogcea  is  the  common  peanut 
cultivated  in  Va.  and  other  Southern  States. 
It  is  probably  called  Camaroon  from  its  being 
grown  in  the  Camaroon  country  in  West 
Africa  where  both  mountains  and  rivers  are 
so  named  and  where  a  tract  of  country 
called  Camaroon  is  claimed  as  a  German 
colony.  There  is  no  reason  why  the  same 
combination  cannot  be  produced  in  this 
conittry  by  the  use  of  the  Vegetarian  So- 
ciety mill. 

THAT    BOX  OF    FAMILY    SUPPLIES. 

We  have  received  from  the  Hall  Cereal 
Company  of  Dansville,  N.  Y.,  one  of  their 
boxes  of  Family  Supplies  mentioned  in  their 
advertisement  on  the  last  page  of  cover  this 
month.     It  contains  enough  of  each  of  their 

17a 


products  to  enable  any  one  to  judge  of 
their  value.  It  is  a  supply  that  will  last  a 
small  family  quite  a  while  and  is  especially 
adapted  to  those  -who  have  not  leisure  or 
opportunity  to  prepare  their  own  cereal  food 
by  the  use  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  mill. 
It  is  the  next  best  thing  to  ^frinding  one's  own 
grain,  to  have  it  ground  by  a  reliable  firm 
who  make  a  speciality  of  perfect  as  well  as 
clean  grain.  Their  corn  meal  and  Graham 
flour  we  have  tried  and  can  fully  endorse  them 
as  the  very  best  we  have  ever  been  able  to 
obtain.  The  satisfaction  of  having  pure  food 
it  worth  much  more  to  the  consumer  than  the 
little  additional  cost  there  may  be  in  obtain- 
ing these  special  boxes  of  supplies  from  thit 
well  known  and  long  established  company. 
The  other  goods  are  no  doubt  equally  satisfac- 
tory and  it  will  be  an  especially  good  oppor- 
tunity to  accept  their  generous  ofier  of  nicely 
packed  goods.  The  plan  of  packing  iu  cartons 
ensures  the  most  perfect  freedom  from  dast  or 
dirt  so  likely  to  accumulate  with  goods  that 
are  sold  in  bulk.  With  these  goods  the  most 
perfect  corn  mush,  cakes,  gems,  Graham 
bread  and  gems,  gluten  bread,  oatmeal  mush, 
Blanc  Mange,  griddle  cakes,  puffs,  Boston 
Brown  Bread  and  Peptic  preparations  for  in- 
valids and  numerous  nice  table  dishes  can  be 
made,  adding  greatly  to  health,  comfort  and 
the  economical  enjoyment  of  life.  Directions 
on  each  carton. 

HOW  TO  MAKE  TOMATO  CROQUETTES. 
Peel,  cut  into  halves  and  press  out  the 
seeds  from  6  good  sized  tomatoes.  Put  them 
into  a  chopping  tray  and  chop  rather  fine  and 
measure.  To  each  pint  of  the  chopped  toma- 
to allow  a  pint  of  bread  cmmbs,  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  a  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  a  saltspoon 
of  pepper  and  a  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 
Form  tliis  mixture  into  cylinder  shaped 
croquetlefl,  dip  iu  egg  and  then  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  butter  or  oil. 
These  are  difBcult  to  make  unless  the  bread 
crumbs  are  iu  the  right  condition.  If  the 
mixture  is  too  soft  to  handle,  add  more  bread 
crumbs.  Cold  boiled  rice  may  also  be  mixed 
with  chopped  tomatoes  and  made  into  croq'ts. 

October, 


d  by  Google 


THEO.    KOSS. 

We  have  pleasure  in  annonncing  that  Theo- 
dore Koss,  the  well  known  seedsman  and 
Horticulturist  of  Milwaukee,  who  is  a  Vege- 
tarian, has  kindly  consented  to  contribute 
practical  articles  to  this  Department.  Articles 
signed  T.  E.  are  his. 

KEEPING    CABBAGE. 

Every  vegetarian  who  has  a  garden,  should 
raise  mote  or  less  cabbagefor  winter  use. 

Where  cabbage  is  grown  on  a  large  scale 
for  shipping  purposes,  the  beet  plan  is  to 
lift  thecabbages  and  stack  them  two  tiers  deep 
and  as  closely  as  they  can  be  placed  in  an 
orchard,  or  wood,  If  convenient,  and  cover 
^th  leaves  to  the  depth  of  two  or  three  inches, 
the  leaves  to  be  kept  in  place  by  a  light 
covering  of  earth.  In  this  way  the  heads  will 
beep  perfectly  sound  all  winter,  and  they  can 
be  easily  taken  up  as  wanted  for  shipping. 

For  family  use  cabbages  can  be  kept  in  the 
same  way,  only  it  will  not  be  necessary  to 
make  the  second  layer.  Jt  is  quite  important 
to  keep  them  a  little  below  the  freezing  point. 
It  has  been  suggested  to  keep  them  in  some 
convenient  building  but  this  plan  has  always 
resulted  in  fiulure,  as  the  dry  atmosphere  is 
fatal ;  cabbage  must  be  kept  moist  and  cool> 
the  slightest  wilting  renders  it  nnfit  for  the 
able— T.  K. 

VEGETARIAN'S  DELIGHT  CABBAGE. 

I  take  pleasttre  in  herewith  announcing 
that  I  shall  introduce  a  new  late  cabbage  next 
spring.  A  variety  of  unusual  good  merits, 
large,  veiy  solid  and  an  excellent  keeper. 

This  cabbage  I  have  decided  to  name  "The 
Vegetarians'  Delight"  and  hope  to  place  a 
packet  of  seed  in  the  hands  of  all  vegetarians 
who  have  gardens.  A  full  description  and 
illustration  of  it  will  appear  in  these  columns 

1S97 


in  due  season. — ^Theo.  Eoss,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 
WATER  CRESS. 

This  hardy  fresh  water  plant  is  highly 
esteemed  as  a  salad  and  may  be  drawn  upon 
at  all  seasons.  Its  warm  and  cordial  qualities 
make  it  particularly  healthful  and  appetizing 
in  winter  and  spring. 

It  seems  to  be  the  most  universal  salad 
plant.  Some  Encyclopedias  class  it  as  "a 
plant  that  has  been  used  for  salad  from  time 
immemorial."  German,  French  and  English 
market  reports  quote  the  sale  of  Water  Cresses 
and  the  seeds  and  plants  are  ofiered  in  all 
their  trade  lists.  Yet  the  supply  comes  from 
rural  sections,  where  streams  of  running 
water  abonud.  Once  started,  nature  takes 
care  of  the  plants.  It  is  considered  a  wild 
growth  in  many  places,  but  this  may  arise 
from  naturalization  of  plants  that  have  so 
long  survived  the  hand  that  planted  them, 
that  none  are  left  to  tell  the  tale.  "Men  may 
come  and  men  may  go,  but  I  go  on  forever," 
the  Water  Cresses  beside  the  babbling  brook 
may  say. 

The  necessary  conditions  are  running  water 
and  a  clean  sandy  or  gravelly  bottom.  It  is 
a  creeping  perennial  and  requires  room  to 
spread,  running  water  is  absolutely  necessary. 
Still,  deep  or  stagnant  water,  or  dark,  muddy, 
sour  soil  will  not  grow  the  cresses.  The  most 
bvorable  site  is  near  the  source  or  head  of  a 
shallow  stream.  Springs  do  not  freeze,  and 
a  spring  fed  stream  near  its  source  will  admit 
of  thecresses  being  gathered  all  winter.  They 
are  iron  clad  plants,  defiant  of  cold.  The 
plants  ought  to  be  set  about  eighteen  inches 
apart,  and  lengthwise  of  the  stream.  This 
distance  gives  room  to  spread.  If  the  depth 
of  water  be  not  more  than  one  or  two  iuches, 
the  plants    as    they    grow    will  obstruct    the 

173 


d  by  Google 


pood.  |1om^  ai^d  Oardei; 


o  that  the  depth  will  increase  several 
inches  above  the  leaves,  a  condition  highly 
favorable.  They  may  be  cut  all  winter  from 
such  places.  Wherever  there  is  a  spring  of 
running  water,  the  owner  stands  in  his  own 
light,  that  does  not  plant  water  cress. 

They  may  be  raised  from  seed  on  a  little  plat 
of  ground  so  situated  that  water  can  be  turned 
on  it,  under  an  improvised  system  ofirriga- 
tioa.  The  plants  will  grow  and  when  the 
character  leaves  have  formed,  may  be  set  on 
the  water  side  where  they  are  to  stay  for  good. 
Spring  is  the  best  time  to  sow  the  seed,  but 
any  season,  except  winter,  suits  for  trans- 
planting them,  either  from  seedling  plants  or 
plants  from  other  plantations.  The  water 
keeps  them  perfectly  fresh  till  the  roots  have 
time  to  fasten  themselves  into  the  soil. 
Young  plants  may  be  cut  three  times,  to  make 
them  stocky,  but  after  that  the  oftenerthey 
are  cut  the  better.  Cut  and  come  again  is  the 
rule.      Their    fresh   growth  is  inexhaustible. 

Pepper  Grass  or  Curled  Cress  belong  to  the 
same  class,  but  is  a  different  salad  plant  from 
the  aquatic. 

Water  Cresses  are  convenient  nnd  exceeding- 
ly healthful  for  family  use  and  also  profitable 
as  a  market  product.  They  are  cheaplyand 
easily  raised.  Once  established  they  form  a 
plantation  that  may  be  depended  on  without 
further  expense  or  labor.— T.  K. 

THE     SCARLET    RUNNER. 

This  ornamental  vine  grows  profusely  in 
our  Frankford  garden.  Its  .seeds  we  consider 
the  richest  of  the  beans  grown  for  food.  It  is 
strange  that  it  has  not  been  more  generally 
grown  in  this  country  as  it  is  a  good  summer 
vegetable,  the  pod  being  a  fleshj'  edible,  and 
it  supplies  when  dry  a  most  excellent  winter 
dish  either  in  soup  or  as  baked  beans. 

THE  CALIFORNIA    PEPPER  TREE. 

A  kind  friend  in  Sonthtrn  California  sent 
us  two  Pepper  Tree  plants  and  they  have 
grown  in  our  garden  and  are  already  greatly 
admired  for  their  beautiful  foliage.  A  few 
cuttings  we  have  tried  have  struck  root  and 
are  growing  nicely,  If  this  tree  will  stand 
Philadelpliia  winters,    it    will  be    a    valuable 

174 


acquisition  to  our  ornamental  and  shade  trees 
as  its  white  blossoms  and  red  berries  at  the 
same  time  form  a  charming  contrast  to  its 
green  foliage. 

GRAPE  VINES  FROM  COTTINGS. 

Grape  vines  can  be  raised  rapidly  from  cut- 
tings three  or  four  ft.  long,  putting  two  or 
three  buds  underground.  It  is  better  ifthe 
outer  endof  the  vineis  its  natural  end,  nota 
cut  end.  Such  a  vine  has  grown  from  a  cut- 
ting to  a  bearing  age  in  about  four  years. 
Keep  pruned  to  a  single  trunk  with  a  few 
vigorous  branches  moderately  headed  in  every 
year.— Alfred  H.  Howe,  New  York  City. 
VEGETABLE  &  MINERAL  FERTILIZERS. 

Our  friend  Rudulpb  Hecker  makes  the 
following  seasonable  suggestions : 

The  ashes  of  old  newspapers,  pamphlets, 
magazines,  books  &c.  mellow  stiff  cla>-  soil 
very  nicely.  Since  nothing  is  now  paid  for 
such  relics,  it  is  worth  while  to  burn  them  on 
still  days,  and  utilize  them  for  the  garden. 

Much  valuable  waste  material  is  dumped 
where  it  becomes  offensive,  because  not  cov- 
ered, that  thrifty  people  might  utilize  who 
eschew  manuring  with  animal  offal  and  debris. 
Thus  the  trimmings  from  florists'  stores, 
truckers'  sheds,  from  residences  and  withered 
bouquets,  wreaths,  garlands  &c. 

Crude  minerals,  albeit  ruduced  to  dust, 
suffice  not,  per  se,  as  renovator  of  overtasked 
soil.  They  who  have  been  led  to  expect  much 
from  topdressidg,  (or  other  incorporation  with 
the  surface),  with  road  scraping  ac.  alone  will 
be  disillusioned. 

A  judicious  blending  of  finely  ground  gran- 
ite, fallen  vitreous  basalt  &c,  with  packed 
layers  of  fermenting  vegetable  matter  causes 
confined  ammonia  to  act  upon  silica,  and  so 
combine  rapidly  prc^ressing  elements  t» 
quicken  the  inert  mineral.  Stones,  solely, 
cannot  speedily  produce  breadstuff.  A  con- 
cert of  action  by  substance  from  the  vegetable 
and  mineral  kingdoms  does  so,  for  rocks  are 
worn  and  disinles rated  by  lichens,  mosses  ftc. 
aided  by  atmospheric  influences.  An  expert, 
recently  deceased,  deiuonstrated  this  process 
on  thiu  soil  in  Highland  Bavaria. 

October,    1897 


d  by  Google 


\\oin^  ai^d  Qarde9 


JANE    D.  CHURCHILL. 


Jane  D.   Churchili,. 


[  y  N  our  correspondence  with  Vegetarians  in  varions  parts 
of  the  country  the  name  of  Jane  D.  Churchill  has  often 
been  mentioned  with  high  respect  and  affection  as  that 
of  a  true  reformer  and  Vegetarian.  So  we  wrote  Mrs. 
iiirchill  for  her  experience  and  photo,  both  of  whicltwe 
ibsequently    obtained   as  follows : 

How  I  Became  a  Vegetarian. 

'  About  eight  years  ago  I  beard  Mr.  M.  S.  Ayer  of  Bos- 

n  deliver  a  lecture    on    "Wheat"    before    the    Sunday 

school  of  the  ist  Spiritualist  Temple.     He  affirmed  that  the 

s  aughter  of  animals  for  food  was  wholly  unnecessary  as 

wlite  wheat  contained  every   element  found  in  the  human 

body  and  in  about  the  same  proportion  and   therefore  he 

said  it  was  possible    to  be  well  and  strong  without  the  use 

of  meat  as  an  article  of  food ;  tuat  in  fact  Vegetarians  as  a 

rule    enjo)'ed  better    health   and  were  stronger  physically. 

He  gave  the  proportion  of  nutriment  contained  in  beans, 

potatoes,  beets  and  other  vegetables  as  compared  with  that 

found  in  the    flesh  of  animals.     The  idea   of  being    able 

live  without  the  use  of  meat  was  new  to  me.     I  lad 

always    supposed    it   an    indispensible    article  of  diet  and 

.Uhough  I  hnd  always  felt  it  cruel  and  really  barbarous  to 

:ill  animals  for  food,  I  thought  it  must  be  done  that  human 

ight  exist.     It  was  very  pleasing  to  me  to  know  that 


it  was  otherwise.  Mr.  Ayer  at  that  time  had  been  a  Vegetarian  for  ten  years,  and  whei 
sidered  bow  well  and  strong  he  appeared,  and  what  an  amount  of  endurance  he  possessed,  I 
felt  that  it  was  indeed  possible  to  live  without  the  use  of  meat.  1  then  and  there  determined  to 
give  it  up  and  though  I  had  opposition  to  encounter  from  both  friends  and  physicians,  I  have 
eaten  neither  6sh.  flesh  nor  fowl  since  that  time. 

"My  health  is  much  better  than  before  I  became  a  Vegetarian;  can  do  my  housework  which 
I  was  unable  to  do  before :  can  take  long  walks  without  fatigue,  and  although  La  Grippe  hns 
been  prevalent  in  the  locnlity  where  I  reside,  I  have  not  taken  it ;  dyspepsia  is  a  thing  of  Ihe 
past,  and  life  is  altogether  more  perfect  and  desirable. 

"The  haunting  thought  that  some  poor  dumb  animal  was  slain  to  furnish  me  with  food  is  not 
present  when  i  sit  at  the  table,  and  I  somehow  feel  sweeter  and  cleaner  for  not  taking  their 
dead  flesh  into  my  system.  I  can  think  of  the  dew  and  the  sunshine;  the  ^it and  the  ' 
flowers,  and  Mother  Nature's  kindly  care  in  providing  such  a  variety  of  good  things  for  the 
sustenance  of  her  children  and  we  can  feel  a  nearness  to  her  great,  bountiful  heart  that  fills  us 
with  love  for  all  living  creatures  and  givesa  sense  of  peace  and  satisfaction  that  seems  to  me 
impossible  to  come  to  the  flesh  eater. 

"  I  wish  it  were  possible  to  make  all  the  world  understand  how  unnecessary  it  is  to  kill  ani- 
mals for  food,  to  make  everyone  realize  how  much  healthier  stronger  and  cleaner  they  would 
be  without  the  use  of  meat.  I  am  comparatively  a  new  convert  to  Vegetarian  living,  but  I 
can  think  of  no  inducement  strong  enough  to  make  me  return  to  the  old  way  of  living.— Jane 
D.  Chubchill,  Summering  at  Idlehurst,  Blodgett's  Landing." 

One  of  our  most  reliable  correspondents  wrote  us  that  "Mrs.  Churchill  is  a  well  known 
worker  and  writer  of  marked  ability;  a  noble,  earnest  woman  and  au  enthusiastic  Vegetarian 
and  Mental  Scientist,  residing  in  Boston.  Mass."  The  picture  we  have  obtained  of  her  we  fear 
will  hardly  do  her  justice,  but  it  is  the  best  now  obtainable,  and  was  kindly  loaned  us  by  the 
Editor  of  the  L^A/  of  Truth,  Columbus,  Ohio,  who  expresses  a  high  opinion  of  her  earnestness 
and  ability. 

To  those  who  are  thus  practising  Vegetarianism  in  isolation  and  who  have  not  communicated 
with  the  Vegetarian  Society,  we  extend  a  cordial  invitation  to  connect  themselves  with  the 
Society  and  thus  add  force  to  tbemovement.  Send  us  your  experience  as  Mrs.  Churchill  has 
done,  and  thus  become  identified  as  beingon  the  "upward  path."  " Example  is  better  than 
precept." 


1897 


175 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  }1om^  ai>J  (jarde? 

VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  MILL 


THE  FAMILY  FOOD  SUPPLY. 

The  supply  of  good,  clean,  wholesome  food 
for  a  family  is  the  most  important  concern  for 
a  housekeeper  and  when  we  know  that  hog's 
lard  either  as  such  or  in  some  adulterated  form 
enters  into  bread,  cakes  and  pies  of  almost  all 
bakeries  in  this  country,  the  necessity  for 
home-made  bread,  not  in  name,  but  in  renlity, 
becomes  apparent  to  every  careful,  conscien- 
cious  housewife.  The  fact  that  the  white 
flour  of  commerce  is  deprived  of  the  most 
important  element  of  nitrogen,  or  vegetable 
albumen,  which  the  bran  contains  and  the 
almost  impossibility  of  obtaining  fresh,  pure 
Graham  flour,  renders  it  of  first  importance 
that  every  family  should  have  a  convenient 
mill  by  which  to  reduce  wheat  to  the  neces- 
sary condition  of   good    Graham  flour. 

This  mill  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America 
supplies  at  very  moderate  cost.  And  while 
it  is  admirably  adapted  to  the  manufacture  of 
the  best  possible  flour,  the  milt  is  also  equally 
adapted  to  thegrindiug  of  nuts  which  cannot 
be  said  of  other  grist  and  coffee  mills  as  they 
are  usually  made.  Nuts  being  soft  and  oily 
will  choke  up  ordinary  mills,  and  the  Vegeta- 
rian Society  Mill  is  so  formed  as  to  relieve 
itself  of  all  such  material  without  any  difficul- 
ty, and  it  is  therefore  applicable  to  uses  in  the 
preparation  of  food  which  other  mills  are  not. 
While  it  is  thus  equal  to  so  many  purposes  it 
is  sold  at  no  higher  price  than  mills  of  the 
same  size  only  adapted  to  coSee  or  grain. 
GRINDING  THE  BRAN. 

The  chief  objection  to  Graham  flour  made 
by  dyspeptics  is  the  irritating  character  of 
the  bran  and  to  obviate  this  objection  some 
millers  have  invented  what  they  call  "  whole 
wheat  flour"  but  which  has  the  outside  of  the 
wheat  kernal  rubbed  off  before  grinding  into 
flour.  This  however,  necessarily  deprives 
the  grain  of  very  important  elements  which 
liesoclose  to  the  outside  that  in  removing  one 
the  other  is   wasted   if  not  entirely  removed. 

176 


But  by  the  intelligent  use  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society's  Mill  the  whole  kernal,  bran  and  all, 
is  ground  becoming  so  fine  as  to  overcome  the 
objection  to  Graham  flour  raised  by  dyspep- 
tics and  their  doctors.  Thebranis  reduced  to 
flour  and  blended  with  the  starch  in  such  a 
way  as  to  make  it  all  more  digestible. 

The  process  is  to  first  crack  the  wheat  by 
running  it  through  the  mill  when  set  quite 
open.  Then  sieve  out  what  white  flour  luay 
be  in  it.  Then  run  the  balance  through  with 
the  mill  set  as  dose  as  required  to  make  a  nice, 
soft  meal.  What  coarse  bran  is  not  ground 
can  be  sieved  out  and  passed  through  again 
until  the  whole  is  reduced  to  a  fine,  soft  flour 
such  as  good  cooks  know  by  the  feel  will 
make  nice  bread.  The  first  sieving  and  the 
last  should  be  well  mixed  together  before  the 
flour  is  used.  Of  bread  made  of  this  whole 
wheat  Graham,  Mr.  Scott,  president  of  the 
N.  Y.  V,  S.  wrote  in  Tke  Vegetarian, 
Aug.  '97:  "If a  loaf  of  Mrs,  Clubb's  bread 
could  only  be  given  round  in  the  city  it 
would  be  the  strongest  argument  with  which 
to  appeal  to  the  avererage  human  being  to 
adopt  a  vegetarian  standard  of  living." 
BLANCHING  PEANUTS. 

One  of  the  most  tedious  processes  connected 
with  the  manufacture  of  Nut  foods  now  be- 
coming in  such  universal  favor,  is  the  blanch- 
ing process  which  has  hitherto  been  done  by 
hand-rubbing  in  a  sieve  after  roasting  the 
peanuts.  But  experimenting  with  the  Vegeta- 
rian Society  Mill  has  completely  overcome  this 
difficulty  as  all  that  is  necessary  after  roasting 
the  nuis  is  to  let  them  cool  and  then  run  them 
through  the  mill  so  adjusted  as  to  only  split 
each  nut  in  two  pieces.  This  at  the  same 
lime  rubs  the  brocvn  skin  free  from  the  nut ; 
then  pour  the  split  nuts  from  one  pan  to 
another  a  few  feet  below,  in  a  draft  of  air  lo 
carry  off  the  brown  skins.  The  process 
can  be  repeated  two  or  three  times  or  until  all 
the  skins  are  blown  away, 

Oclober. 


d  by  Google 


ir>     s  s   : 
J    I  2  3 


Z      K   I   S 

S    '  ■?  s 

w  s  i ! 
S  ;  B  ^ 

9   -5 

^  i  i, 

III 


o 

H 


o     S     u 
5    3    & 


I    I' 


db,  Google 


Jaues  M.  Peebles,  A.  M.,  M.  D. 


Digitized  by  Google 


Vol.  I,  No.  la,  New  Sbries.  NOVEMBER,     1897.  Wholb  Number,  85. 

JAMES  M.  PEEBLES,  A.  M.,  M.  D. 


ONE  of  the  most  remarkable  men  on 
the  American  continent  is  James  M. 
Peebles  as  his  picture  indicates.  He 
was  born  in  Whittingfaam,  Vermont  in  1821. 
He  bad  Scotch  father  and  English  mother. 
He  taught  school  at  Pitcher,  Vt.  at  the  ^e  of 
seTenteen.  Married  a  deacon's  danghter, 
selecting  her  he  said  "for  qualities  that  would 
wear  well." 

Wbile  a  tall,  sHm  and  beardless  youth  he 
became  a  Universalist  preacher  "preaching 
salvation  by   grace   but   universal  salvation 


JAUBB    H.     PSSBLKS,  U.    D. 

anyhow,"  At  this  period  he  "dabbled  in 
medicine,"  Kelloggsville  where  his  church 
was  located,  had  but  two  doctors  and  one  of 
them  waa  a  botanic  and  steam  doctor.  His 
"fmpathies  were  with  him  although  tlie  Allo- 
paths declared  he  had  but  three  remedies : 
Steam,  Cayenne  Pepper  and  Lobelia. 

"Personally,"  writes  Dr.  Peebles,  " I  am  a 
good  liver,  eating  butter,  cheese,  eggs,  milk, 

1897 


nuts,  fruits  and  vegetables  and  although  in 
my  seventy-sixth  year,  can  bat  a  ball  and  run 
like  a  lad  of  sixteen.  Having  no  aches  or 
pains,  I  am  richly  enjoying  these  youthful, 
the  sunniest  years  of  my  life.  I  am  puzzled, 
however  how  sickly  sectarists  believing  in  tlie 
Bible,  and  especially  in  the  inspired  words  of 
Moses:  'of  swine's  flesh  thou  shalt  not  eat' 
can  partake  of  dead  hogs  either  boiled  or 
broiled." 

In  1869,  President  Grant  appointed  Dr. 
Peebles  U.  S.  Conaal  at  Trebizonde,  Asiatic 
Turkey.  At  the  termination  of  this  consul- 
ate, the  Doctor  took  a  long  tour  through  Asia 
Minor  and  Southern  Europe, 

lu  1S73  he  made  his  first  trip  around  the 
globe,  visiting  the  South  Sea  Islands,  Austra- 
lia, China,  India,  Arabia,  Egypt,  Palestine, 
Turkey  fcc.  His  experience  on  this  circuit- 
ous voyage  was  embodied  in  a  volume  entitled 
"Around the  World," 

In  1877,  Dr.  Peebles  took  a  second  voyage 
around  the  world  visiting  the  same  countries 
and  also  Africa,  Nepaul  and  Ceylon. 

Jnst  before  his  starting  on  his  third  voyage 
around  the  world,  in  1896,  the  Petit  Courier 
remarked  of  him  : 

"He  has  always  been  characterized  for  his 
geniality,  his  detestation  of  shams,  his  uni- 
versal tolerance  of  opinion  and  expession, 
his  entire  freedom  from  race  prejudice,  his 
childlike  spoiitanity,  and  the  unstudied  elo- 
quence with  wliich  he  has  ever  pleaded  for  the 
oppressed  and  the  down- trodden  of  every  land. 
Though  in  his  seventy-fifth  year,  the  Doctor 
is  as  hale  and  vigorous  as  a  man  of  thirty-five. 

"Nearing  life's  setting  sun,  there  is  not  a 
fragment  of  doubt  in  his  mind   but  that  the 

179 


d  by  Google 


pood,  jjiom^  apd  (iarde9 


incompleteness  of  ttiis  rudimentary  life  will, 
in  some  approaching  evening  time,  open  up- 
ward into  the  sunlight  of  another  and  higher 
life  of  growth  and  ultimate  completeness — one 
God,  one  law,  one  brotherhood,  and  one  divine 
destiny  for  all  humanity." 

Dating  from  Indianapolis,  Sept.  i6th,  1897, 
Dr.  Peebles  writes:  "I  returned  only  six 
weeks  ago  from  my  third  tour  around  the 
world  and  wherever  I  went,  I  lectured  upon 
Physiology,  Hygiene,  Vegetarianism,  Anti- 
vaccination.  I  am  a  member  of  the  Red  Cross 
Association  of  Clara  Barton  fame,  and  I  was 
autliorized  on  this  third  tour,  to  select  physi- 
cians to  attend  the  Red  Cross  Parliament  that 
meets  in  Paris  in  1900.  My  adopted  son, 
Dr.  Bnroughs,  is  in  practice  here  and  I  am 
staying  with  him  for  a    few  weeks." 

The  Temple  of  Health,  Indianapolis,  publish- 
ed an  excellent  portrait  of  Dr.  Peebles  and 
inserted  among  other  matter  concerning  the 
trip  the  following  from  the  Progressive  Think- 
er of  Chicago:  "In  his  travels  around  the 
world  Dr.  Peebles  has  had  showered  upon  him 
honors  and  dignities  by  foreign  Courts  and 
was  everywhere  received  with  a  hearty  wel- 
come. His  research  in  India  of  the  Occult 
powers  and  remedial  remedies  used  by  the 
learned  profession  there,  have  been  highly 
instructive  and  beneficial.  The  doctor  comes 
home  to  America  to  his  thousands  of  friends 
and  admirers,  vigorous  in  health,  .ripe  with 
knowledge  and  experience  gained  by  his  trav- 
els and  study.  In  connection  with  physicians 
and  surgeons  in  charge,  he  visited  on  his 
tour.  Leper  Retreats,  Insane  Asylums,  Medi- 
cal Hospitals  and  Infirmaries.  This  he  was 
enabled  to  do  in  seventeen  countries,  being  a 
member  of  the  Red  Cross  International  Med- 
ical Association." 

On  his  return  from  his  third  voyage  around 
the  world  he  published  in  the  newspapers  a 
very  interesting  account  of  India  and  New 
Zealand.  The  former  be  claims  has  been  im- 
povished  by  taxation  and  is  the  poorest  coun- 
try he  visited.  He  says  England  has 
squeezed  the  life  out  of  these  thronging  270, 


000,000  of  people.  They  are  nneasy  and 
dissatisfied  with  English  rule  hut  to  rise  and 
throw  off  the  yoke  is  impossible  as  no  Hin- 
doo is  allowed  to  own  a  revolver  or  firearms 
of  any  kind.  But  "New  Zealand  situated 
1,200  miles  from  Australia,  with  a  climate 
like  that  of  Italy  in  the  north  and  England  in 
the  south,  is  decidedly  the  most  prosperons 
country  that  I  saw — no  tramps,  no  million- 
aires and  no  honest  toilers  seeking,  pleading 
for  work  at  good  wages.  And  why  is  itF 
Effects  have  their  legitimate  causes. 

"Briefly  summed  np,  these  are  the  causes. 
The  Government  of  New  Zealand  owns  the 
railroads,  the  telegraphs,  the  telephones  and 
through  Parliament  has  so  arranged  her  laws 
that  those  who  squatted  in  early  years,  or  sub- 
sequently pnrchased  large  tracts,  are  taxed — 
so  heavily  taxed  for  their  nnoccnpied  land- 
holdings  thattliey  are  very  glad  to  sell  them 
at  a  very  reasonable  price  to  settlers  who  want 
to  make  homes  for  their  families. 

"New  Zealand  has  also  woman's  suflrage. 
The  Bishop  of  these  islands,  my  Uveling 
companion  by  steamer  from  Auckland  to  Syd- 
ney, was  a  devoted  advocate  of  extending  full 
and  free  suffrage  to  women.  "  It  had  already,' 
he  said,  'raised  the  standard  of  politics,  and 
elected  a  higher  class  af  officials. '  Those  who 
most  violently  opposed  the  woman's  sufiFrage 
were  gamblers,  liquor  dealers,  and  the  men 
that  owned  or  patronized  houses  of  ill-fnme. 
Our  sainted  mothers,  wives,  sisters,  daugh- 
ters, in  a  word,  women,  being  the  subjects 
of  law,  and  punishable  if  violating  law,  it  is 
but  the  simplest  act  of  justice  that  they  have  a 
direct  voice  in  the  making  of  law." 

The  good  doctor's  enei^  seems  to  be  in- 
creasing with  his  age  and  although  verging 
towards  eighty  he  is  full  of  life,  enthusiasm 
and  vivacity  and  we  have  reason  to  believe  he 
wilUong  continue  toexert  a  powerful  influence 
in  promoting  those  forms  of  truth,  morality 
and  spirituality  in  which  he  has  so  long  been 
a  distinguished,  able  and  faith^l  laborer. 

Dr.  Peebles  will  soon  return  to  his  Sanitari- 
um at  San  Diego,  Cal. 

November. 


d  by  Google 


II  pood.  |lom^  apd  (^arde9 


NUTCOA  OR  COCOANUT  BUTTER. 

The  mann&ctoFy  of  this  valuable  product 
is  at  last  In  rnnning  order  in  Philadelphia. 
Orders  sent  us  will  be  supplied  promptly 
at  15  els.  a  lb.  in  crates  of  50,  60  or  100  lbs. 
The  name  is  changed  to  comply  with  Penn- 
sylvaaia  law. 


WHEAT  MEAL. 
The  famous  Arlinfi^ton  Wheat  Meal  manu- 
factured by  Samuel  A.  Fowle,  Arlington, 
Mass.,  comes  the  nearest  of  any  bread  stuff  in 
the  market  to  being  a  perfedt  food.  Those 
who  cannot  make  their  own  Graham  should 
send  to  Mr.  Fowle  for  his  valuable  product 
See  his  advt. 


ASTHMA  CURED  BY  VEG.  DIET. 
I  was  a  good  partof  my  life  about  an  inva> 
lid  with  asthma  often  nearly  smothering  to 
death,  and  a  philosopher  once  said  you  can 
get  well  of  that  asthma  if  you  will  stop  eating 
Besh.  I  did  so  and  my  asthma  is  a  thing  of 
the  past  forthelaat  10  years.  I  am  now  54 
years  old  hence  I  have  been  relieved  of  my 
suffering.  I  am  glad  to  see  you  people  advo- 
cating such  a  tmlli.— John  S.  Booker,  Parkers- 
buTg.  W.  Va. 


THE    DOCTOR     AND  THE     APPLES. 

Once  when  riding  through  South  Jersey 
with  a  doctor  grown  old  in  practice  in  his 
neighborhood,  we  passed  an  extensive  orchard 
in  which  manyof  the  trees  were  laden  down 
wilh  rosy  fruit,  and  upon  remarking  that  it 
seemed  to  be  a  bearing  year,  he  said  "  Yes," 
and  pointing  to  the  apples  that  lay  in  pro- 
fusion upon  the  ground,  "there  is  more  real 
medicinal  value  ia  those  pills  than  all  my 
buggy  case  ever  contained." — 7fe  Gate  to 
HeaUh. 


PACTS  CONCERNING  RIGHT  LIVING. 
An  article  on  this  subject  by  Dr.  Jozef 
Drzeweicki,  Warsaw,  which  appeared  in  the 
Cotden  Age.  after  stating  interesting  facts, 
concludes  as  follows :  "  (i)  There  is  no  doubt 
that  man,  as  natural  sciences  and  religion 
testify,  is  created  to  live  on  fruit  and  vegetable 

1897 


food.  (2)  That  snch  diet  purifies  the  blood, 
while  meat  inflames  and  is  the  source  of  many 
diseases  which  are  the  punishment  for  break- 
ing the  natural  law  and  command.  (3)  Belief 
in  the  value  of  meat  diet  is  supported  by  erro- 
neous opinions  of  some  medical  anthorilies— 
opinions,  which  in  time  h.ive  rooted  them- 
selves into  the  minds  of  men  and  become  their 
property,  their  habit.  Besides  nature  there  is 
no  authority. 

"There  is  a  custom  to  breakfast,  lunch, 
dine,  and  sup.  as  if  such  a  command  existed 
formen."  As  I  thought  about  it  I  wondered 
more  and  more,  why  so  many  of  us  just  follow 
customs  and  habits  regardless  of  consequences. 
Heciled  the  following  rule:  "Eat  only  when 
hungry,  and  drink  when  you  are  thirsty,  and 
never  other  wise. "  He  says  if  one  eats  more 
than  one  needs  instead,  of  it  strengthing  one 
it  poisons  one.  Think  it  over  and  I  do  not 
doubt  but  the  seeming  mystery  of  so  mnch 
sickness,  poverty,  crime  and  suffering  will  be 
explained.  "Pure  bodies  make  pure  hearts." 
"Man  does  not  live  by  bread  alone."  Not 
only  the  food  we  eat,  but  the  air,  water,  sun- 
shine are  full  of  life  and  health  and  strength. 
—Mrs.  C.  F.  T.,  Central  Falls,  R.  1. 


THE  REINDEER. 

This  noble  animal  introduced  to,  and  domes- 
ticated in  Alaska  ia  a  frugally  disposed  vege- 
tarian, subsisting  on  the  long,  fibrous,  white 
moss  abounding  in  central  and  arctic  Alaska, 
a  vast  territory  unfitted  for  agriculture  or 
ordinary  cattle  raising. 

Trained  reindeer  are  proving  very  useful  in 
transportation.  Dogs  have  been  employed  for 
this  purpose  but  will  be  discontinued  for 
they  are  slow  and  must  be  burdened  with  the 
food  for  their  maintenance.  Reindeer  make 
in  a  day  twice  or  thrice  the  distance  covered 
by  a  dog-team,  and  at  the  end  of  a  journey 
maybe  turned  loose  to  feed  on  the  moss  al- 
ways accessible  to  them.  Thus  the  reindeer 
will  largely  render  Alaska  available,  unless  a 
disease  that  attacks  the  hoof,  and  is  due  to 
the  damp  soil  prevent. — R.   Hecker,    Philada. 

Oct.2,     1897. 


d  by  Google 


P  pood,  ^om^  apd  Qardep 


MAKING  CONVERTS. 
I  note  in  Pood  that  people  occasionftlly  say 
they  were  converted  to  VegetariMnism  hy  flee- 
ing one  copy  of  Food.  Is  it  not  then  the 
double  duty  of  each  person  who  gets  Food  to 
show  it  to  at  least  one  or  more  of  their  friends 
and  try  to  extend  the  good  work  as  fast  and 
as  far  as  possible?  In  the  noble  words  of  The 
Voice  of  the  Silence :  "  Inaction  in  a  deed  of 
mercy  becomes  an  action  in  a  deadly  sin." 
Let  Vegetarians  reniember  to  act  abnndantly 
upon  thflt  magnificent  maxim. — F.  S.  Rynian. 


VEGETARIAN  COLONY,  SWITZERLAND. 
Synopsis  of  the  initiated  vegetarian  colony 
Monte  Trinita,  R.  R.  station,  Locarno,  on 
Lake  Maggiore,  Canton  Ticino.  Switzerland. 
Altitude  1300  ft  Mild,  short  winter,  long 
sammer.  No  extremes  of  temperature;  no 
dust,  tio  fogs,  nor  high  winds.  Luxnriatit 
vegetation,  fine  flowers  and  gardens.  Pic- 
turesque scenery  and  surroundings.  Alpine 
views.  Grapes,  pears,  apples,  figs  (even  at 
that  elevation,  available),  superior,  edible 
chestnuts  and  other  sorts  of  nnts,  from  the 
middle  of  Angust  till  January ;  prior  thereto: 
huckleberries,  strawberries,  raspberries, 
peaches  &c.  Also,  on  trellis,  sheltered,  limes 
and  oranges.  Good  soil  and  water.  Cost  of 
living,  moderate.  Price  of  land  not  high, 
varies  according  to  location.  Title  reliable. 
German  and  Italian  spoken.  Vaccination  not 
compulsory.  Referee:  Frederic  Kuerschner, 
Aaian.  Switzerland.  Enclose  double  postage, 
when  addressing  him. — R.  Hecker,  Oct.  7,  '97. 

BUDDHISM   &  VEGETARIANISM. 

For  the  very  small  sum  of  35  cts.  our  Veg- 
etarian friends  can  buy  The  Gospel  of  Buddha. 
A  review  of  this  book  appears  in  Food.  If 
I  am  right  the  Buddhists  are  consistent  vege- 
tarians and  this  Gospel  will  be  of  great  service 
to  the  Vegetarian  cause  in  the  U.  S.  I  hope. 

A  niisunderstandingseeius  to  exist  in  regard 
10  the  burning  of  widows  in  the  East  and  to  be 
sure  of  the  attitude  of  Buddhism  on  this  I 
wrote  to  Dr.  Paul  Carus,  Editor  of  The  Opei 
Court  of  Chicago.  He  writes :  "  Mr. —  is  quite 
mistaken  in  attributing  the  burning  of  widows 
182 


to  Bnddliism.  That  is  an  old  Hindoo  rite 
which  originated  through  a  mistaken  interpre- 
tation in  the  Vagur-veda  and  remained  in 
practice  until  the  English  set  themselves 
against  it.  In  ancient  Vedic  times  the  prac- 
tice was  not  in  vogue.  It  originated  later. 
Buddhism  set  itself  against  it  as  mach  as 
against  bloody  sacrifices.  In  Buddha's  time 
the  practice  was  not  general.  Only  when 
Buddhism  was  expelled  from  India  and  Ilin- 
dnism  gained  the  upper  hand  again,  the  prac- 
tice '  of  burning  widows  became  fully  es- 
tablished. It  is  now  suppressed  all  over 
India  and  may  take  place  only  in  such  remote 
pans  as  the  British  government  cannot  reach. 
"Von  may  tell  Mr. —  authoritatively  that 
Buddbitm  has  nothing  to  do  with  it  except 
that  it  denounces  it  as  a  terrible  barbarism." 
— F.  S.  Ryman,  Boston,  Oct.  5,  1897, 


HEALTH    HOME,    URBANA,   ILL. 

We  ought  to  stand  for  the  truth  and  help 
proclaim  it  to  others  for  their  benefit.  When 
at  the  University  of  Chicago,  Class  of  '  72,  I 
saw  the  light  of  this  Tmth,  but  as  I  went  out 
into  the  world  I  did  not  always  remain  true 
to  its  teachings,  but  now  have  a  Home  for 
Divine  Healing  and  we  teach  and  practise  the 
Truth  as  it  applies  to  Diet,  Hygiene  »c.  If 
we  use  flesh  and  walk  after  the  appetites  and 
lusts  of  the  flesh  we  are  living  in  the  flesh 
life  and  cannot  know  mnch  of  the  power  and 
leading  of  the  Spirit.  As  we  rise  in  Spiritual 
Truth  we  lose  our  craving  for  meat ;  all  its 
exciting  and  stimulating  effects  with  the 
Diseases  pertaining  thereto  pass  away.  "Be- 
hold all  things  become  new."  We  have  a 
new  body  (bottle)  which  alone  can  hold  the 
"  New  Wine  of  the  Kingdom." 

Tbe  Lord  wants  these  Temples  pare,  clean 
and  healthy  as  His  Habitation  and  he  is  life 
to  us,  and  we  need  not  to  cause  the  death  of 
any  of  His  creation  to  help  us  to  live  the  Christ 
life,  which  is  a  perfect  life  in  every  respect. 
I  am  nearly  fifty  and  feel  much  younger  and 
healthier  than  I  did  at  thirty.  1  feel  this 
new  life  filling  my  whole  being  and  our 
patients  find  here  a  life  they  never  knew  be- 
N  01  ember. 


d  by  Google 


ppood.  ^om^  apd  Cardei; 


fore.  We  have  a  real  garden  or  Bden  which 
produces  twelve  manners  of  fruits,  besides 
milk  and  honey:  so  we  live  upon  the  "Fat 
of  the  Laud"  and  have  no  desire  to  return  to 
Egypt  with  its  fiesh-pots  and  live  in  bondage, 
bttt  prefer  to  walk  in  the  Light  and  be  "a 
city  set  nponahitl  which  cannot  be  hid." — 
Dr.  Beverly. 

GOOD  AS  FAR  AS  IT  GOES. 
The  Catholic  Church  is  good  for  some- 
thing. It  forbids  flesh-eating  a  few  days  in 
the  year.  I  wish  it  wonld  take  more  rapid 
strides  towards  its  millennium.  Why  do  they 
cling  to  the  flesh  pots  of  Egypt? — S.  A.  Ridg- 
way. 


TWO  GOOD  BOOKS. 
I  have  recently  received  the  pamphlet  and 
book  of  Ellen  Goodell  Smith :  "Our  Educa- 
tors" and  "The  Fat  of  the  Land"  both  of 
which  I  presume  you  have  seen.  We  think 
them  both  very  fine  and  wish  they  could  have 
a  wide  circulation.  It  seems  to  nstbat  she 
strikes  at  the  very  root  of  the  difficult]'  and 
shows  so  clearly  the  relation  of  a  flesh  diet  to 
all  vices. — Lydia  A.  Irons,  Athol,  Idaho. 


HOW  IS  IT? 
Show  me  a  whiskey  drinker,  and  I  will 
show  you  a  meat  eater.  Show  me  a  beer 
drinker  and  I  will  show  you  a  meat  eater. 
Show  me  a  glntton,  and  again  I  will  point  you 
to  another  meat  eater.  Show  me  a  tobacco, 
opium,  or  morphene  user,  and  I  will  show 
you  a  meat  eater.  Show  me  a  Vegetarian  and 
I  will  show  you  a  man  with  more  patience ! 
more  kindness  of  heart !  and  more  love  for 
everybody  I  than  can  be  found  in  ordinary  men 
and  women. — ^T.  S.  Scoville,  lo  E.  Mt.  Airy 
ave.,  Germantown,  Philada. 


COLLEGE  OF  OCCULT  FORCES. 
Our  friend  Wm.  C,  Ferris  writes  encourag- 
ingly of  the  college  he  has  established  in 
Chicago  at  115  Paulina  St.  He  says  it  is 
going  to  snoceed  ;  that  lie  has  already  reached 
many  and  changed  the  course  of  their  thought ; 
that  there  is  nothing  visionary  in  bis  teach- 
ing ;  it  is  intensely  practical.     That  he  taught 


private  classes  in  Occnlt  science  in  Battle 
Creek,  Mich,  in  September.  His  days  now 
are  given  to  co-operative  work  and  his  even- 
ings to  the  College  where  his  pupils  come. 
He  says  he  is  one  of  a  number  of  devoted  men 
and  women  who  are  intent  on  finding  a  better 
way  of  doing  business  than  the  present  system 
affords  and  they  have  already  found  it,  and 
every  day  brings  them  nearer  to  the  realiza- 
tion of  their  plans:  "That  the  Brotherhood 
of  Humanity  will  soon  be  a  blessed  reality ; 
and  this  wicked  city  of  Chicago  will  put  into 
operation  the  first  scientific  working  model 
of  the  ideal  thought." 


It  is  B  vnlgar  error  to  regard  meat  in  any 
form  as  necessary  to  life.  All  that  is  neces- 
sary to  the  human  body  can  be  supplied  by 
the  vegetable    kingdom. — Sir  Hy.  Thompson. 


THE  ADVANCE  OF   VEGETARIANISM. 

The  longer  one  lives  the  principles  of  Vege- 
tarianism by  diet,  pure  thinking,  and  humane 
feeling  toward  all  living  creatures,  the  more 
does  one  realise  their  valne,  as  aids  in  the  up- 
building of  a  true  manhood  and  womanhood. 
Also  in  soul  evolution  from  the  easy,  common- 
ways  of  living  on  a  line  of  worldly  pleasures 
and  sensuality,  which  put  off,  and  in  many 
esses  prevent  to  the  close  of  this  life,  the 
attainment  of  that  true  man  and  womanhood 
that  should  be  reached  here. 

The  practice  of  these  principles,  even  by  the 
few  initiated,  is  having  a  widespread  infiu- 
ence  in  the  world.  Awakened  minds  do  not 
find  it  a  hard  task  to  refrain  from  eating  the 
flesh  of  dead  animals,  for  there  is  more  involv- 
ed in  it,  and  in  a  reform  diet  and  its  mental 
belongings  than  they  had  thought,  it  comes 
□carer  the  inner  immortal  self. 

Satisfying  a  fancied  appetite  and  satisfying 
the  higher  demands  of  soul-growth  are  quite 
difierent  things  as  to  their  importance  of  reali- 
zation, and  there  are  but  few,  who  seeing 
themselves  in  the  light  of  the  latter  will  not 
strive  to  make  practical  the  lessons  learned. 
Thus  Vegetarianism  must  advance. — H.  A. 
Bradbury,  Norway,  Maine. 

183 


d  by  Google 


I  pood,  ^om^  ai)d  (jardei^ 


pood,  }1om^  apd  (firdejj 


PHILADELPHIA,  NOV  ,     1897. 

vegettriwi 

Society  or 

America,    Pobllsben 

.Alt  coumaDlei 

lUouW  be 

tut    tojto    Cbertni. 

St. 

RBV. 

HBNRY    a. 

CLDHB,    Editor. 

SOCU.,  bur 

rear. 

AdnrtlKiDCBti      per      line 
IwcIk  latent 

00  e    lEierlioD,   10 
sni  1  douw. 

ccnu. 

A  good  complexion  can  only  be  obtained 
by  pare  food,  pure  air  and  pure  water  with 
abnndant  exercise  to  keep  ap  the    circulation. 


The  ty/uii  to  Eat,  Miimeapolis,  publishes 
a  humorous  Vegetarian  Tragedy,  illuatrated. 
It  is  continued  so  we  cannot  predicate  on  the 
result. 

The  Vegetarian  Messenger,  Manchester, 
England,  for  October  abstracts  from  Food, 
Home  &  Garden  our  sketch  of  Rev.  A.  T.  de 
Learsy,  D.  D. 

The  Delineator,  New  York,  for  November- 
publishes  an  excellent  Menn  for  two  Vegeta- 
rian Dinners  with  Breakfost  «  Supper,  giving 
recipes  in  detail. 


It  is  encouraging  to  find  the  press  of  this 
country  accepting  Vegetarian ifim  so  cordially. 
The  attempt  to  ridicule  ithas  died  out  and  the 
philosophy  of  Vegetarianism  is  generally 
admitted  even  where  it  is  not  fully  adopted. 


The  N  Y.  Times  publishes  an  interesting 
account  of  the  achievements  of  the  Vegetarian 
athletes  in  England  and  Germany  taken  from 
the  London  Chrtmide.  For  athletic  training 
it  is  found  there  is  nothing  equal  to  a  Vege- 
tarian diet. 

The  driedolivessent  ns  by  our  friend  O.  N. 
Cad  well  of  Carpi  nterea,  Cal.,  are  very  rich  and 
nice.  We  think  they  would  suit  the  gifted 
authoress  of  the  "Fat  of  the  Land"  as  they  are 
rich  in  pure  olive  oil  and  leave  a  very  pleas- 
ant taste  in  the  mouth. 


The  Countess    Wachtmeister,   who  ' 
Philadelphia  Oct.  14th  kindly  fovored  u 


sited 


an  hour's  interview  and  her  cabinet  photo. 
We  took  short  hand  notes  and  hope  to  use 
them  in  preparing  a  sketch  to  accompany  her 
portrait  in  onr  number  for  January,  189$. 


Woman's  Home  Companion  for  October  says 
"the  canvas  back  dnck  probably  outranks 
everything  in  the  way  of  game."  Is  it  because 
of  its  rank  smell  when  ripe?  Dead  ripe  game 
is  rank  poison  any  way  and  it  is  the  poison 
that  makes  it  so  rich  and  delightful  to  the 
gourmand. 


The  newspapers  report  that  since  the  trial 
in  Chicago  ofa  sausage-maker  forwife-mnrder 
in  which  it  was  suspected,  owing  to  a  ring 
being  found  in  the  sausage  mill,  that  the 
murdered  woman  had  been  made  into  sau- 
sages, the  demand  for  sausages  bad  ceased 
and  the  business  ruined. 


According  to  the  Woman' s  Home  Compamon, 
American  table  Manners  are  not  so  open  to 
criticism  as  formerly.  We  are  glad  to  learn 
that  Americans  are  improving  in  this  respect 
but  when  a  delicious  Vegetarian  soup  is  served 
we  obiwrve  a  second  pUte  is  sometimes  asked 
for,  but  it  is  done  in  such  a  complimentary 
way  that  it  becomes  wholly  excusible. 


Our  friend  Hecker's  reference  to  the  Rein- 
deer is  timely  as  this  animal  proves  that 
eating  fiesh  is  not  essential  even  in  an  arctic 
region  and  that  the  common  moss  of  that  re- 
gion will  sustain  one  of  the  strongest  animals 
in  a  most  laborious  occupation.  The  Klondike 
gold  seekers  make  a  great  mistake  in  taking 
flesh  food  and  salt  provisions  instead  of  fmits 
and  farinaceous  supplies.  They  will  reap 
their  reward  in  scurvy  and  rheumatism. 

The  Hall  Cereal  Co.  of  Dansville.  N.  y! 
were  so  well  pleased  with  the  result  oftbeit 
advt.  on  cover  of  Food,  Home  ft  Garden  last 
month  that  they  ordered  it  repeated  this 
month.  We  believe  that  their  customers  are 
equally  pleased  with  the  nice  family  supply 
boxes  of  pure  foods  which  they  received  from 
this  enterprising  and  liberal  Company.  Give 
their  products  a  good  trial.  The  last  page  o( 
November, 


db,  Google 


jjloiti^  a9d  (iarde9 


cover  for  January,  i8g8.  will  be  worth  a  good 
deal  to  advertisers  cs  it  will  be  an  improve- 
ment OD  all  previous  issues  and  will  have  a 
very  Urge  circulation. 


THK  EMPIRE  GUTTER. 
Wehavetried  the  Empire  Glitter  advertised 
this  month  «nd  find  it  excellent  for  cleaning 
and  polishing  metalic  sabstances  and  is  es- 
pecially good  for  the  plated  portions  of 
bicycles. 


ITJNERV  PREACHING  OF 
VEGETARIANISM. 
Mr.  T.  M.  Siddons  wlrose  Vegetarian 
experience  covers  the  period  since  1876,  when 
in  Africa,  desires  to  engajce  in  an  itinery 
tOBr  holding  Vegetarian  meetings  in  various 
pacts  ofthetfonntry.  His  address  is  Box  61, 
Harrison,  N.Y.  Any  vegetarian  desirous  of 
joining  with  him  either  as  ^>eaker  or  singer 
sbould communicate  witb  him.  We  have  put 
bim  into  comwnnication  with  out  esteemed 
friend  John  Keidel  of  Berlin,  Prussia,  who  was 
one  (rf"  th«  most  entertaining  speakers  at  the 
World '^  Vegetarian  Cotrgress  in  1893,  in  Chi- 
cago, and  who  now  desires  to  return  to  this 
conntry  and  engage  in  delivering  lectnres  on 
Vegetarianism,  Hygiene  ftc.  while  traveling 
(mm  N.Y.  to  California  where  he  expects  to 
permanently  reside.  Write  htm  at  Freidenan, 
Berlin,  Prussia. 


THE  PHILADELPHIA  VEGETARIAN  S'V. 

At  the  monthly  meeting  held  Oct.  15th, 
1897,  Rev.  A.  T.  de  Learsy  presided.  Rev. 
Henry  S.  Clnbb  opening  with  prayer  and  then 
in  the  abfience  of  Miss  Bettes  acted  as  Secre- 
tary^ Um. 

A  letter  from  Josiah  Oldfield,  Sec.  of  the 
V^.  Fed.  Union,  London,  to  Uie  President  of 
tbeV.S.  A.wasreadin  response  to  the  action 
of  the  P.  V.  S.  at  the  July  MeetinggUting 
that  the  proceedings  of  tlie  Veg.  Congress 
wonld  be  published  in  book  form  in  Dec.  and 
will  contain  the  record  of  the  greetings  sent 
(torn  America.  The  letter  also  expressed  the 
rordial  appreciation  tliereof  and  fraternal  re- 
Rards  and  the  statement:  "We  hope  that 
you  may  find  it  possible  to  visit  Europe  before 
1897 


long  and  I  can  assure  yon  that  you  will  receive 
a  very  hearty  welcome  from  brother  Vegetari- 
ans in  England." 

On  motion  of  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clnbb, 
Resolved  That  this  Society  hereby  records 
its  high  appreciation  of  the  eminent  services 
to  the  Vegetarian  cause  rendered  by  A.  F. 
Hills,  Esq.  D.  L.  President  of  the  Vegetarian 
Federal  Union  and  sincerely  trust  that  he  will 
long  be  spared  to  continuehis  labor  and  sup- 
port and  that  he  will  see  the  triumph  of  those 
humane  principles  for  which  be  hag  so  ably 
contended. 

After  much  discussion  a  resolution  for  the 
appointment  nf  a  committee  to  work  up  an. 
interest  in  a  Vegetarian  Restanrant  was 
adopted  and  the  committer  was  appointed  by 
the    President. 

'  Adjourned  tomeet  in  the  parlorof  the  B.  C. 
Church,  Park  Ave,  Monday  evening,  Nov.  15. 


THE  NEXT  VOLUME. 
With  this  number  we  close  volume  i  of  the 
new  series  and  in  order  to  commence  the 
second  volume  with  the  new  year  our  next 
number  will  be  for  January,  189S — and  will 
be  issued  early  in  December  so  as  to  be  in  time 
for  the  holiday  season.  We  hope  to  eSect 
several  improvements  in  the  new  volume  both 
in  cover  and  interior.  We  are  being  kindly 
assisted  in  these  improvements  by  our  vege- 
tarian friends  Emil  Hensler  in  Detroit  and 
Geo.  Brunswick  in  New  York,  engravers  of 
eminence,  and  skill  both  in  design  and  exe- 
cution, so  we  anticipate  that  onr  new  dress 
will  meet  the  requirements  of  the  time  and 
enable  Food,  Home  &  Garden  to  mingle  with 
the  monthlies  on  the  news  stands  and  hold  its 
own  in  the  race  of  competition.  We  ask  our 
friends  ag&in  to  respond  to  these  efforts  by 
ordering  the  numbers  for  189S  sent  to  tbeir 
friends  as  a  Christmas  or  New  Years'  present. 
Four  friends  can  be  thus  reminded  monthly 
of  your  generous  regard  for  their  welfare. 
Forty-eight  presents  for  one  dollar ! 


Correction. — In  onr  last  number  page  163, 
and  col.  7th  line,  for  "Mrs,  Chandler,"  read 
Mrs.  Churchill. 


d  by  Google 


BE  FREE  FROM  GUILT  OF  SLAUGHTER. 

O  eblldrei  turn  ye  from  the  barbirow  me«l 
So  fil'.ed  wllh  TCnoin,  TllneH  nd  dlieuc  I 

And  IMto  DBtnrc'*  oil  and  unple  Ireml: 
When  Pleslr  reiKtu  jM  inirfeH  cannot  te*w : 

Thebodrndthemd 


Willtk 


slbndaofbi 


-J.E 


THE  MILL  AND  THE  STILL. 

I  wai  made  to  be  ealen,  and  not  lo  be  drank, 
To  be  hnaked  In  a  barn,  not  Maked  In  a  lank, 
I  come  a*  a  Meaalnc  when  ran  Uiro'  the  nlll ; 
Aa  a  Might  and  a  cimewhen  ran  thro'  theatill 


Id  Drink  I'm  the  marter,  the  drinker  a  rool. 
—Selected  from  SecreU  of  Smcctii  by   H.  B.  Dewen.  by 
R.  Heckcr. 

A  FOUR  YEAR  OLD  APPLE  BLOSSOM. 

We  have  used  no  flesh-food  in  our  fanily 
for  more  than  a  year  and  find  our  general 
health  much  improved.  Onr  four  year  old 
boy  who  was  never  very  hearty,  seems  to  be 
doing  better  than  ever  before,  on  a  straight 
Vegetarian  diet.  Wishing  yon  success  in 
your  good  work. — H.  F.  Comstock,  401  San- 
ford  St.,  Peoria,  Ills. 

PLANTING     APPLE    TREES. 

Mrs.  Clnbb  wishesttBtosay  to  all  the  Apple 
B[.ossoHS  who  live  on  a  lot  large  enough : 
Plant  an  apple  tree  this  fall,  if  possible,  and 
watch  its  progress  from  year  to  year  and  when 
yon  are  grown  up  or  before,  it  will  not  only 
l>e  full  of  "apple  blossoms"  but  will  bear  nice 
fruit  if  you  st;lect  the  proper  variety  for  your 
locality,  and  any  apple  grower  will  tell  which 
kind  that  is. 

PETTING    HORSES. 

When  we  go  into  a  meadow  where  there  are 
intelligent  horses  grazing  they  usnally  come 
up  to  US  and  delight  to  be  petted.  They  seem 
to  know  that  their  is  a  sympathy  between  all 
vegetarians.  If  we  have  nice  apples  or  pears 
of  course  we  give  them  to  these  brother  vege- 
tarians of  ours  and  they  enjoy  the  fruit  as 
much  as  we  do.  The  Farm  JountBl  relates 
n  case  of  a  man  who  won  a  prize  for  the  best 
looking  team  by  walking  his  horses  instead  of 
trotting  tlieni  and  they  did  as  much  work  as 
if  they  had  been  trotted.— H.  S.  C. 


CORA   BLISS  AN  APPLE  BLOSSOM. 

Mrs.  Cora  A.  Leonard-Bli.ss  writing  from 
San  Diego,  California:  "My  daughter  Cora 
is  such  a  firm  VeRelorian  she  will  ar^nelike 
a  philosopher  with  her  playmates  on  the 
merits  of  Vegetarianism.  She  has  been  a 
Vegetarian  since  she  was  two  year's  old,  (she 
is  about  seven  now)  and  of  course  never  ate 
but  very  little  meat.  She  is  a  perfcct  picture 
of  health.  Every  one  comments  on  her 
healthy  appearance.  I  have  been  told  by  a 
number  of  persons  that  myself  and  daughter 
were  the  best  specimens  of  Vegetarianism 
they  had  ever  known. 

PRIVATE  SCHOOL    FOR  GIRLS. 

Eldress  Anna  White  has  commenced  aboard- 
ing  school  at  Mount  Lebanon  for  girls  from 
eight  to  twelveyearsofage.  The  prospectus 
stated  that  the  aim  is 

pTanned 

And  that  "the  school  being  on  a  large  form, 
fmits,  vegetables  and  dairy  products  in  the 
best  condition  will  form  the  diet."  This  is  a 
capital  opportunity  for  Applb  Blossoms  to  get 
an  education  away  from  the  odors  of  deceased 
animals  end  where  all  the  influences  are  hu- 
mane, pure  and  refining,  in  a  most  charming 
country  in  sight  of  Mt.  Lebanon  and  other 
monotain  views. 

FROM  THE  EDITOR. 

Dear  Applb  Blossoms: — Among  other  nice 
things  that  they  had  in  themenu  atWeller-a 
Grove,  Laporte,  Ind.,  were  corn  fritters  and 
nut  salad.  The  latter  was  made  with  walnut 
meats,  celery,  potatoes,  etc.  It  was  so  delici- 
onsthat  I  called  for  a  second  dish  of  it. 

I  would  like  to  hear  from  Alma  A.  Duncan. 
Piqua,  O.who  wrote  such  a  sweet  letter  to 
Food,  published  in  the  Aug. -Sept.  no.  I  hope 
she  will  stick  to  her  resolution  to  be  a  Vcffe- 
tarian.  If  she  use  Caramel  Cereal  Coffee, 
MazaniB,  Granola,  Granose,  Wlieatena,  Aven- 
ola,  and  other  health  foods,  she  will  be  pinmp, 
strong  and  well.  May  God  bless  her,  and 
keep  her  faithful  to  her  Vegetarian  principles ! 
—Walter  S.  Weller,  144  37th  St.,  Chicago. 

November, 


d  by  Google 


MENU    FOR    THANKSGIVING    DINNER. 

V*gei»ble  Soap. 


NdI  Saodwicbn. 
Celery.  Ollns. 

Gnham  Bread. 


Plntn    PDddiD«.  Sauce. 

CbocDlate  lee  Cream.  Orange  Ice. 

SprlDff  Water, 

RECIPES. 

Graham  Bread. — Take  3  lbs.  fresh  Graham 
flour,  I  yeast  cake,  I  tablespoon  sugar,  i  tea- 
spoon salt  and  sufficient  lake  warm  water  and 
white  flour  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  Set  to  raise 
and  when  light  knead  the  whole  adding  a 
little  white  flonr  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the 
bands.  Raise  again  and  when  light,  knead 
into  loaves  and  raise  again.  When  light, 
place  in  the  oven  and  bake  one  hoar.  If 
accustomed  to  baking  white  brend  you  can 
take  a  pt.  of  white  Mponge  and  add  Graham 
flour  to  it  and  make  brown  bread  by  fol- 
lowing above  recipe.  It  is  not  well  to  stir  np 
Graham  batter  at  night  as  it  may  sour. 


n  J.  p 


iloo.Cal. 


Boston  Steamed  Brown  Bread.— (Corrected 
(rom  May  no.  of  Food.)  iji  coETeecup  each 
of  corn,  rye  and  Graham  meal,  I  teaspoon 
solt,  1^  teaspoon  soda.  Sift  or  mix  together, 
fat  in  3  cnps  New  Orleans  molasses,  3  cups 
sweet  milk.  Beat  together  and  pour  into  a 
tin  form.  Place  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water. 
Steam  4  hours. 

A  Nice  Lunch  for  a  Day's  Tramp. — Boston 
Steamed  Brown  Bread  battered.  Soak  apri- 
cots or  prunes  over  night,  drain,  sprinkle  sugar 
over  them.  Spread  on  bread  they  are  delicious. 

1S97 


Date  Sandwiches.— Cut  thin  slices  of  bread. 
Butter  lightly.  Spread  with  dates  chopped 
fine.  Form  the  Sandwiches,  trim  off  the 
crusts. 

Date  »  Apple  Sauce. — 2  cupfiils  of  prepared 
dates  in  a  pint  of  apple  sauce.  The  dates  will 
sprve  to  sweeten  the  apples,  unless  the  apples 
are  exceedingly  tart  no  sugar  will  be  needed. 

Date  Bread.— Knead  a  cupful  of  prepared 
dates  into  each  loaf  of  risen  bread  jast 
before  putting  it  into  the  pan  to  rise  the  last 
time.  A  cup  of  raisins,  a  cup  of  chopped  figs, 
or  currants  may  be  nsed  in  the  same  way. 
HEALTHY  ON  FRUIT  &  BREAD. 

I  expected  to  die  fifteen  years  ago  with  stom- 
ach,  liver,  kidney  catarrhal  troubles.  But 
now  at  the  age  of  64  am  better  in  health  than 
at  50.  I  nearly  live  on  fruit  and  prefer  it  raw, 
with  good  wholesome  bread:  Graham  or 
whole  wheat.  I  buy  a  loaf  of  coarse  bread  and 
with  any  kind  of  fmit  have  several  meals  for 
half  the  price  of  one  meal  with  aieat  and 
coffee  and  four  times  as  good. — A.  Beller,  447 
Iningave.,  San  Diego,  Cal.  Oct.  6,  1897. 
SOUP    OF     FRUITS. 

Fruit  soups,  says  Miss  Anna  Barrows,  are 
appetising  and  healthful,  and  common  in  for- 
eign countries,  particularly  Sweden.  For  one 
of  these  soups  take  1  tablespoon  of  raisins,  2 
tablespoons  of  raw  rice.  3  whole  cloves  and  a 
cnp  of  dried  apricots,  the  apricots  being  thor- 
oughly soaked.  Cook  all  t<%ether  in  3  pints 
of  water  for  an  honr  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Add  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon 
of  sugar.  The  seasoning  depends  largely  up- 
on the  acidity  of  the  fruit,  apples  requiring 
more  sugar  than  apricots. — JVeur  York  Times. 

187 


d  by  Google 


I  pood.  ]ion\^  ar)d  (^ardepj 


PREPARING  CABBAGE  FOR  COLD  SLAW. 
When  nsing  cabbage  for  cold  alaw,  cut  it 
into  ribbons  an  bonr  or  more  before  it  is  to  be 
used  and  let  it  stand  in  ice  water  nntil  the 
iast  moment ;  then  drain  it  upon  a  sod  cloth 
to  remove  the  water  and  ponr  a  French  dress- 
ing over  it.  If  once  tried  thns  it  will  always 
be  treated  in  this  manner. 

SEELEVS  RVENA. 
This  is  a  new  cereal  food  prepared  from  Rye. 
It  was  brought  to  our  notice  by  Mr.  Baldozer. 
It  is  manufactured  in  Amy,  Michigan  by 
Seeley  and  Son,  (who  also  make  an  excellent 
whole  wheat  flour.)  It  is  sold  in  lo  ct.  pack- 
ages and  is  worthy  a  trial  especially  by  con- 
valescents and  nursing   mothers. 

EGYPTIAN     LENTILS. 

Largely   used    in    Oriental 

countries  and  is  one  of  their 

principal  articles   of  diet.     It 

was  from  these  that  the  dish 

of  pottage  was  made  and  for 

which  Esau  sold    his    birth- 

rlglit  to  Jacobin  Bible  times, 

and   many  will  be  interested 

in  them  forlhatreason.    They 

are  in  growth  similar  to  peas 

and   may  be  used  in  any  way 

that  you  would    use  shelled 

beans,  and   they  also  make  an 

excellent  soup.     Sow   and  cultivnte  same  as 

garden  peas  and  thresh  out  in   the  fall.     All 

should  try  them. 

Our  friend  Theo.  Koss,  Seedsman,  Milwau- 
kee, who  gives  this  information,  supplies 
choice  accliraatedseed.     Write  him. 

TAKE  SUN  BATHS. 
Where  the  sun  does  not  go,  there  goes  the 
doctor.  Ail  sorts  of  diseases,  from  consump- 
tion down,  are  mitigated  or  cured  by  sunlight 
and  pure  air.  Watch  for  the  sun,  for  life  and 
health  dwell  in  the  sun's  beams;  and  when 
it  is  shining,  open  every  window  in  the  house 
until  it  goes  down  again.  There  is  every 
reason  to  believe  that  the  germs  of  such  dis- 
eases as  scarlet  fever,  diphtheria,  typhoid 
fever  and  other  such  deadly  enemies,  are  en- 
tirely deslro3ed  by  strong  sunlight.  Not  only, 
however,  has  the  sun  the  power  uf  making 
germs  die,  but  it  isequally  endowed  with   the 


potency  of  making  men  live.  Let  every  man 
and  woman  make  sure  that  not  only  them- 
selves, but  also  their  children  and  their  ser- 
vants, shall  have  the  fullest  opportunities  of 
taking  in  unlimited  quantities  of  the  inexpen- 
sive life-giving  sunshine. — 7X^  Hospital, 

HOW  I  GOT  CONTROL  OF  MY 
APPETITE. 
I  quit  eating  meat,  drinking  and  smoking, 
all  at  the  same  time,  short  off.  Went  throngh 
three  different  fasts,  the  first  one  thirty-six 
hours,  the  next  sixty  hours,  the  last  one 
twelve  days.  I  lost  twenty  pounds  in  twelve 
days,  drank  two  gallons  of  distilled  water, 
walked  seven  or  eight  miles  each  day  and 
broke  the  fast  by  eating  one-half  pint  of 
parched  horse  corn.  After  five  days  yon 
lose  your  appetite.  I  went  through  the 
three  fasts  inside  of  six  months.  I  weighed 
each  day  after  the  second  day  and  lost  abont 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  each  day,  I  have 
no  regular  hours  to  eat.  I  eat  whenever  I 
am  hungary  and  according  to  my  appetite. 
If  I  work  hard  I  need  more  food,  there- 
fore eat  more.— J.  H,  Freeman,  Catalina 
Island,  Cal. 

NUTS,  GRAINS  &  FRUIT. 
I  advocate  living  on  nuts,  fresh  tincooked 
fruits  and  mainly  on  nngronnd,  uncooked 
wheat.  Destroying  life-germs  of  food,  other 
than  by  our  own  act  of  thoroughly  masticat- 
ing it  for  assimulation  in  our  own  bodies, 
seems  to  me  to  be  wrong  if  we  desire  the  high- 
est life  giving,  pure  food  standard.  The  sides 
of  the  highways  of  our  country,  owned  by  the 
whole  people,  should  be  planted  with  food, 
trees,  shrubs  and  bushes,  wheat,  etc:  city 
parks  and  boulevards  should  also  be  so  util- 
ized to  form  a  paradise  and  furnish 
food  (pure)  for  every  one  in  abundance.  La- 
bor would  then  be  free  to  build  better  houses, 
earn  better  clolhing  and  gain  higher  educa- 
tion. I  expect  to  make  a  journey  entirely 
around  the  world  living  on  the  whole  nn- 
ground,  uncooked  wheat  and  ]>ure  water 
alone. — H.  Alden  Spencer,  50  E.  9th  St., 
New  York. 

November. 


d  by  Google 


SEEDLING   PEACH  TREES. 

Good  peach  pits  may  be  planted  and  grow 
to  be  good  bearers  by  a  little  pruning,  allow- 
ing only  one  trunk  to  about  z  or  3  ft.  high, 
above  which  the  stoutest  branches  should  be 
left,  and  if  spreading  too  widely  they  should 
be  headed  in.  Otherwise  the  weight  of  fruit 
will  break  them  down.  If  a  prop  is  necessary 
never  tie  up  branches  with  wire,  it  cuts  into 
the  lirab,  and  destroys  it.  Use  rope,  or  better 
a  prop  from  below. — Alfred  H.  Howe,  r49th 
St  Trinity  ave  .  N.  Y.  City. 

KEEPING  THE  GOOSE. 

William  H.  Barnes,  acting  secretary  of  the 
Kansas  State  Horticultural  Society,  addressed 
a  recent  fair.  He  said  that  the  people  of 
Anderson  Court  individually  ate  15,000,000 
meats  per  annum,  and  that  with  only  one 
cent's  worth  of  fmit  and  vegetables  per  meal, 
they  ate  $150,000  worth  of  horticultural 
products  per  year,  which  equalled  the  returns 
from  400  toads  of  cattle,  showing  that  the 
horticultural  interests  were  greater,  as  less 
than  400  loads  of  cattle  are  shipped  from  here 
per  year.  In  horticulture  one  keeps  "the 
goose  that  lays  the  golden  egg, "  as  the  or- 
chard and  the  berry  bushes  are  not  included 
in  the  sale  but  are  kept  for  more  fruit. — 
Fruilman's   Guide. 

VEGETABLES    IN     ALASKA. 

RtJDOI.PH   HECKER. 

Excerpting  from  an  official  report,  (Hand- 
book No.  84,  August  1897}  I  offer  the  follow, 
ing:  Whether  it  be  due  to  the  climate 
changing  through  the  clearing  of  many  acres 
of  forest,  or  to  improved  methods  I  cannot 
say,  but  for  several  years  past  excellent  veg- 
etables such  as  potatoes,  cabbages  &c.  have 
been  grown  yearly  in  the  neighborhood  of 
Sitka  and     Wraugel.     Near  Sitka    there  are 

1897 


many  plots  nndcr  cultivation.  I  have  seen 
2  seasons  in  succession  lettuce  of  several  va- 
rieties, cabbages  a  yard  accross  before  they 
began  to  head  and  8  to  10  inches  in  diameter 
headed,  cauliflower  weighing  from  10  to  15 
pounds  1  early  rose  and  peachblow  potatoes 
ranging  from  3  to  30  ounces  each,  and  each 
hill  yielding  over  half  a  bucket  full;  turnips 
of  very  large  size,  and  cress,  radishes  *c.  in 
profusion ;  green  peas  of  excellent  quality, 
and  beds  bordered  by  gooseberries  and  currant 
bushes,  producing  loads  of  fruit.  My  lettuce 
bed  kept  me  supplied  from  June  to  September. 

FRUIT    IN    SANTA    BARBARA. 
O,  N,  Cadwell. 

We  now  have  many  kinds  of  fruit:  such  as 
apples,  pears,  plums,  berries,  f>eaches,  lemons 
'  orauges,  grapes  in  varieties,  guavas,  figs, 
persimmons  etc. 

We  can  have  some  varieties  of  fresh  ripe 
fruit  on  our  table  every  day  of  the  year. 

Fruit  is  the  largest  part  of  my  food.  Nuts 
and  melons  are  plenty,  so  you  see  we  have 
very  little  fear  of  a  famine.  Just  for  mswelf 
there  would  be  do  animals  kept  on  our  farm 
to  furnish  meat,  milk,  butter  or  eggs,  as  I 
can  get  along  nicely  without  any  of  them. 
Animals  require  much  work  and  care  for  the 
amount  of  real  food  they  furnish. 

The  markets  are  now  looking  nice,  with 
such  a  display  of  the  many  varieties  of  fruits ! 
If  you  could  step  into  our  orchard  and  garden 
we  could  give  you  such  a  feast  as  you  never 
had! 

Dried  Olives. 

I  have  been  pressing  our  dried  olives,  will 
have  some  15  to  20  gallons  of  pure  oliveoil. 
Will  send  you  per  mail  a  few  dried  olives, 
so  you  can  see  how  the  pure  oil  tastes.     By 


db,  Google 


pood.  )1om^  ai)d  Qardep 


pressing  an  olive  between  the  tfaumb  and  fin- 
ger yoa  can  obtain  a  drop  of  sweet  oil  from 
the  bitter  fruit.  In  some  parts  of  Europe 
many  dried  olives  are  used  for  food.  Some 
are  used  in  Cal.  Have  sold  loo  pounds  to  S. 
W.  Manning  who  lives  mostly  on  fruits,  nuts, 
vegetables  etc.  I  like  them,  as  by  tasting  of 
them  now  and  then,  the  flavor  becomes  very 
pleasant. 

ALASKA'S  SOIL. 
Rudolph  Hecker. 
Excerpted  from  the  official  hand  book  No. 
84  August,  1897.  As  to  the  character  of  the 
countiy  in  the  Youkon  region  (  now  so  often 
mentioned )  Mr.  Dall,  aays  it  varies  from 
rolling  ground  and  somewhat  rocky  hills  to 
broad  and  marshy  plains  extending  for  miles 
on  either  side  of  the  river.  The  underlying 
rocks  in  great  part  are  Asoic  (without  organic 
life),  being  conglomerate,  syenite  and  quart- 
site.  The  southshore  of  Norton  Sound  and 
portions  of  the  Kadiak  Peniusnla  are  basalt  and 
lava.  On  the  N.  B.  shore  of  Norton  Sound 
sandstone  and  clay  beds  contHining  liguite 
abound ;  the  former  also  does  so  on  the  Yukon, 
alternating  with  the  Azoic  rocks.  The  super- 
incumbent soil  varies  in  different  places,  being 
clayey  in  some  localilies,  and  in  such  situa- 
tions it  is  frequently  covered  with  sphagnum 
(mosN)  which  always  impoverishes  the  soil  im- 
mediately beneath  it.  In  others  it  is  light 
and  sandy,  and  over  a  large  extent  of  country 
it  is  the  richest  alluvial,  composed  of  very 
fine  sand,  mud  and  vegetable  matter  brought 
down  by  the  river,  and  forming  deposits  of  in- 
finite depth.  The  soil  is  usually  frozen  at  a 
depth  of  3  or  4  feet  in  ordinary  situations. 
In  colder  ones  it  remains  icy  within  18  inches 
of  the  surfaee.  This  layer  of  frozen  soil  is  6 
or  8  feet  thick.  Below  that  depth  the  soil  is 
destitute  of  ice,  except  in  very  unusual  sit- 
uations. The  turnip  flourishes  wherever  the 
potatoe  thrives.  But  cereal  crops  cannot  be 
grown  in  Alaska,  nor  can  the  fruit  trees  of  the 
United  States  be  cultivated  successfully. 
Exceptionally,  as  above  stated,  gooseberries 
and    currants  do  well;     but,    generally    the 


Strawberry  and  cranberry  only  can  be  relied 
npon.  Fields  spread  ont,  squared  up  and 
plowed  do   not  obtain. 

THE  JAPAN  CHESTNUT. 

The  Japan  Chestnut  is  proving  to  be  among 
the  best  of  importations  from  Japan,  being 
the  largest  and  finest  Chestnut  that  grows 
anywhere,  weighing  from  one  once  to  one 
and  one  fourth  ounces  each  and  four  to  six 
inches  in  circumference.  The  variety  of  uses 
for  f<x>d,  recommends  them  highly,  for  use  in 
this  country,  as  they  are  grown  at  small  cost, 
bearing  when  two  and  three  years  of  age. 
They  bring  higher  prices  in  the  Northern 
markets  than  any  others,  selling  for  early 
shipments  at  f  10.00  to  $15.00  and  rarely  less 
than  $6.00  per  bushel. 

Pecans  and  Chestnuts  are  in  greater  de- 
mand than  any  other  and  our  well  worthy 
of  universal  cultivation. — Herfert  Post, 
Fort  Worth,  Texas. 

Mr,  Parry,  of  Parry,  N.  J.  had  a  very  fine 
show  of  Japanese  and  other  Chestnuts  at  the 
State  Fair  at  Trenton  N.  J.  this  year. 
COVER  THE  BULB  BED. 

Be  sure  to  give  the  spring  blooming  bulbs 
a  nice  warm  winter  blanket  of  leaves,  litter 
from  the  stable,  or  brush,  or  a  combination  of 
all,  and  do  not  be  in  a  hurry  in  spring  to  get 
them  out  of  their  winter  clothes.  Don't  rush 
out  the  first  warm  day  and  clear  away  all  the 
brush  and  litter  just  because  it  is  unsightly 
looking.  The  crocus  and  snowdrop  will  not 
need  so  warm  a  covering  as  the  other  bulbs 
and  can  be  uncovered  earlier  in  the  spring. 
But  from  the  tulip,  hyacinths,  etc.,  gradually 
remove  the  covering,  leaving  the  finest  of 
the  stable  litter  on  the  beds  permanently. 
—  Vicks  Afagazitie. 

FRAGRANT-LEAVED  PLANTS. 

Grow  fragrant  leaved  plants  in  your  gar- 
den. Slips  of  roses  geraniums,  planted  out 
in  good  rich  garden  soil  soon  make  plants 
from  which  you  can  take  branches  and  not 
miss  them.  Lemon  verbena  is  an  old-time 
favorite,    with  fragrant  foliage. —  Vicks  Mag- 

November, 


d  by  Google 


pood.  |iom^  a^d  Qarde9 


Irs.  DAVIS  the  joint  editor  with  Countess  Wacht- 
Imeister  of  the  most  recent  work  on  Vegetarian 
ICookery  entitled  ihe  Practical  Vegetarian  Cook  Book, 
lias  been  well  known  for  the  past  ten  years  as  a  magazine 
writer  and  Journalist.  She  edited  The  Housekeeper,  a  family 
paper  of  twenty-four  pages,  for  nearly  two  years. 

Born  in  1856  in  Moma,  Ills.,  her  fatherthe  Hon.  Henry 
Chalfont  Biiffington,  was  a  Journalist  40  years,  served  six 
years  in  the  U.  S.  Consular  service  in  Canada  and  is  now 
living  with  his  daughter  in  Minneapolis,  at  the  age  of  81. 
ETcessive  literary  labors  at  editing,  impaired  Mrs. 
Davia's  health  and  she  sought  restoration  by  a  trip  to 
Europe  and  while  in  England  attended  a  summer  course  of 
lectures  at  Oxford.  Adopting  a  Vegetarian  diet  her  health 
improved  and  she  is  now  able  to  perform  a  large  amount 
of  desk  labor  endnring  it  several  more   hours  a  day  than 

1897 


was  possible  while  a  Besh  eater. 

Her  magazine  work  includes 
stories  and  essays  and  some  of  ber 
productions  have  appeared  in  The 
Arena,  Boston,  as  well  as  in  West- 
em  publications. 

Mrs.  Davis  has  a  good  faculty 
for  interesting  people  in  philo- 
sophic  thought  both  through  the 
press  and  on  the  platfonii.  She 
labors  in  behalf  of  better  laws  in 
regard  to  child  labor;  educational 
reform  ;  free  kindergartens  as  well 
BsTheosophicand  Vegetarian  pro- 
paganda. For  years  she  has  been 
conducting  classes  in  the  study  of 
Theosophic  literature  in  her  own 
house,  not  on  a  money  basis,  all 
of  her  work  of  this  character  being 
free  will  ofierings  to  higher  edu- 
cation. Her  husband,  Mr.  F.  W. 
Davis  is  in  perfect  sympathy  wiih 
her  in  these  matters.  At  her 
house  she  has  entertained  many 
distinguished  guests  including  the 
Countess  of  Wachtmeister,  Annie 
Besant,  Huntin  Garland  et  ai, 

Mr.  ft  Mrs.  Davis  are  blessed 
with  a  charming  daughter,  a  bril- 
liant girl  of  sixteen  and  their  home 
is  a  social  center  for  cultured  and 
liberal  tiiinkers. 

Cour.tess  Wachtmeister,  when 
ill  Philadelphia  recently,  gave  us 
a  very  interesting  account  of  the 
Vegetarian  friends  in  Minneapolis 
among  whom  Mrs.  Davis  occupies 
a  prominent  social  and  literary 
position.  Their  last  Vegetarian 
Banquet  was  a  complete  success 
and  did  much  to  draw  public  at- 
tention to  Vegetarianism  through 
the  reports  in  the  newspapers. 

The  Countess  also  informed  us 
that  Ihe  Practical  Vegetarian  Cook 
Book  is  meeting  with  deserved 
success    in    this   country    and   in 

191 


d  by  Google 


jlpood,  ^om^  apd  (Jardei; 


JAPAN  CHESTNUT. 


(See  Page  190.) 
End  Vol.  j  New  Series. 


d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


COUNTESS  WACHTMEISTER. 


db,  Google 


F®®B.  ?f®^E  ^jTb  G-^^bbH. 


Vol.  II,  New  Series,  No.  13.  JANUARY, 


Whole  Number  86- 


THE  COUNTESS   WACHTMEISTER. 


DURING  a  pleasant  interview  with 
Coontess  Wachtmeister  in  Philadel- 
phia, Oct.  r4th,  1897,  we  learned 
that  she  has  been  a  Vegetarian  nineteen 
years.  That  she  commenced  the  practice 
while  living  in  her  native  country,  Sweden. 
She  supposed  she  was  the  first  Vegetarian 
of  her  family.  That  her  relatives  were  hor- 
rified at  the  idea  of  attempting  to  live  on 
food  that  contained  no  animal  substance  in 
it,  and  predicted  that  when  she  became  ill 
she  would  have  no  stamina,  no  vital  force 
with  which  she  could  recover  her  health. 
She  replied  to  snch  remarks  by  saying  that 
her  being  a  Vegetarian  would  prevent  h^ 
getting  ill,  and  that  has  been  the  case. 
That  for  six  months  of  this  time  she  lived 
solely  on  fruit,  nuts  and  whole-meal  bread, 
but  in  traveling  she  found  it  not  always  con- 
venient to  do  this  and  so  she  has  taken 
again  to  common  Vegetarian  &re. 

One  difiSculty  in  living  on  firuit  was  the 
fact  that  nearly  all  fruit  obtainable  is  now 
bad.  Peaches  have  worms  in  them  and 
apples  are  subject  to  the  codling  moth ; 
walnuts  have  maggots  and  she  found  it 
exceedingly  difficult  to  get  fruit  and  nuts 
that  are  perfectly  pure.  She  had  purchased 
a  beautifiil  basket  of  peaches  in  Cleveland 
and  every  peach  had  two  or  three  worms 
inside. 

We  inquired  whether  she  thought  that  the 
use  of  animal  fertilizets  had  been  the  chief 
cause  of  this  deterioration  of  the  fruit  trees 
and  consequent  prevalence  of  injurious 
insects? 

1897 


The  Countess  promptly  replied  she  was 
sure  of  it.  She  regarded  this  as  a  very  se- 
rious question  for  Vegetarians. 

We  told  her  we  had  for  some  time  been 
urging  the  use  of  mineral  and  vegetable 
fertilizers  as  preferable  to  those  of  animal 
origin. 

The  Countess  replied  that  she  believed 
the  purest  fertilizer  to  be  obtained  was  sea- 
weed. She  had  seen  it  applied  and  was 
astounded  to  see  what  wonderful  crops  were 
the  result.  That  the  sowing  of  clover  and 
plowing  it  into  the  ground  was  a  beautiful 
system  of  horticulture. 

The  Countess  has  traveled  all  around  the 
world  in  the  interest  of  Theosophy  and 
Vegetarianism  and  has  delivered  many  ad- 
dresses both  in  America  and  other  countries. 
She  believes  she  has  coverted  hundreds  to 
Vegetarianism,  When  she  addressed  the 
Chicago  Vegetarian  Society  the  hall  was 
unable  to  hold  the  people  who  desired  to 
hear  her  and  many  were  obliged  to  go  away 
without  gaining  admission.  There  were, 
she  said,  at  least  five  physicians  in  Chicago 
who  will  not  take  a  patient  that  persists  in 
eating  flesh  meat.  And  these  are  regular 
practitioners. 

Traveling  in  Australia  she  met  Mrs.  Hunt 
at  Melbome  who  has  written  a  book  on 
Vegetarianism. 

When  in  Minneapolis,  Minn.,  she  met  a 
number  of  Vegetarians  who  desired  to  or- 
ganize a  good  powerful  society.  She 
advised  them  to  order  a  Vegetarian  Dinner 
at  the  best  restaurant  in  the  city.     They  did 


d  by  Google 


^FOOD  hone^gardeRI 


so  bat  when  the  guests  were  assembled  the 
dinner  was  uneatable!  The  newspapers 
ridiculed  the  dinner  so  much  that  the  Res- 
taurant people  offered  to  get  up  a  second 
dinner  which  should  be  free  to  all  who  had 
bought  tickets  for  the  first.  This  proved  a 
grand  success  and  the  affair  did  more  to 
advertise  Vegetarianism  than  if  it  had  been 
a  passibly  good  dinner  at  first.  About 
eighty  persons  partook  of  the  second  dinner 
and  all  were  delighted. 

The  Countess  also  stated  that  the  Theo- 
sophic  Society  did  not  require  its  members 
to  be  Vegetarians  and  they  all  do  as  they 
please.  The  Society  is  composed  of  pereons 
of  every  religion  in  the  world,  and  there- 
fore they  live  in  perfect  freedom  of  thought 
and  action  everywhere,  but  theosbphic 
teachers  tell  their  disciples  that  if  they 
would  make  progress  they  should  become 
Vegetarians.  That  Annie  Besant  is  a  Veg- 
etarian and  sets  a  Vegetarian  table  at  the 
Theosophic  headquarters. 

The  Countess  said  most  of  her  converts 
were  persons  outside  of  the  Theosophic 
Society.  She  found  the  force  of  her  ex- 
ample had  more  weight  than  anything  she 
could  say:  "People  look  to  the  life  and 
according  to  the  .  life  they  judge  whether 
what  she  said  was  true  or  not." 

In  conclusion  the  Countess  said  she  was 
going  next  day  to  New  York  and  after  hold- 
ing meetings  there,  would  proceed  to  Boston 
where  she  was  engaged  to  lecture  on  Vege- 
tarianism Nov.  3,  before  the  Copeia  Club, 
and  would  return  to  Philadelpliia  in  Decem- 
liL-r  when  she  would  be  happy  to  address 
the  Vegetarian  Society. 


TUBERCULOSIS. 

Fifteen    cattle,    worth   $600,  were  killed 

on  the  County  Farm,  at  Schuylkill   Haven, 

liecause      they     had    tuberculosis. — Phila. 

Record. 


EDIBLE  TOADSTOOLS. 

In  "Our  Edible  Toadstools  and  Mush- 
rooms and  How  to  Distinguish  Them"  (by 
W.  Hamilton  Gebun,  Harper  &Bro.,  New 
York,   1895,)  the  author  writes : 

"The  fiingus  affords  a  perfect  substitnte, 
chemically  and  gastronomically,  for  animal 
food.  The  analysis  of  its  substance  is  al- 
most identical  with  that  of  meat,  being 
especially  rich  in  nitrogenous  elements, 
while  its  flavor  and  aroma  and  texture,  as 
served  for  the  table,  occasionally  so  closely 
imitate  those  of  flesh  food  as  to  be  actually 
deceptive.  Even  in  its  raw  state  it  would 
occasionally  seem  to  suggest  the  same  ani- 
mal similarity.  As  an  illustration  I  recall 
the  following  striking  instance  of  gastro- 
nomic discrimination  in  a  carnivorous 
appetite  as  exemplified  in  a  full-grown  pet 
hawk  which  I  had  tethered  near  my  country 
studio. 

' '  One  day,  returning  from  a  toad  stool 
hunt,  she  obser\'ed  me  approaching  with  a 
basketful  of  mushrooms.  They  were  most- 
ly of  the  fleshy  Boleti  species.  Supposing 
that  I  was  bringing  her  food,  she  became 
very  demonstative  in  her  actions,  eying  me 
most  eagerly,  and  uttering  that  peculiar 
sound  which  seemed  to  eminate  &om  the 
region  of  her  appetite.  As  she  approached 
me,  thinking  to  satisfy  her  that  the  basket 
contained  nothing  suitable  for  hawk -food, 
I  tossed  her  one  of  the  largest  of  the  mush- 
rooms, which  she  almost  caught  in  mid-atr 
in  her  talons.  Such  was  the  strength  of  her 
clutch  that  the  fungus  was  scattered  in 
fragments  upon  the  ground,  when  what  was 
my  surprise  to  observe  the  bird  proceed 
from  one  fragment  to  another  in  a  most 
ravenous  manner,  exhibiting  all  those  tac- 
tics habitual  to  the  hawk  with  live  prey. 

' '  The  Agarims  oslrealus  is  known  as  the 
vegetable  oyster,  its  flavor  in  a  stew  quite 
closely  simulating  the  flavor  of  the  bivalve ; 

January 


d  by  Google 


—ari—Jiw     ■■■■     !■  ■         [     rrt    iiiil 


another  fungus  as  the  'beefeteak  musb- 
romn,'  not  withont  good  reason;  the  P^ly- 
ponts  suiphureus  distinctly  sug^;ests  the  flesh 
and  fiavor  of  chicken;  others,  as  we  have 
seen,  resemble  kidnej^  and  sweetbread; 
while  the  Agarieus  uJmarintts  of  the  dm 
wonld  seem  entitled  to  its  popular  name 
of  '  fish-mnshroom. ' 

"  Indeed  the  Vegetarian  may  hnmor  his 
hnmane  whim  and  still  enjoy  fish,  flesh  and 
fowl  at  his  taUe  withont  a  qnalm  of  con- 
science in  a  menu  which,  in  aroma,  quality 
and  flavor,  might  well  deceive  his  uncon- 
verted omniverous  brother,  only  at  last  to 
win  his  encominm  to  the  gl<ny  of  the  mul- 
htm  in  parvo  fnngus.  The  possibilities  in 
this  dh-ectkm  are  suggested  in  my  append- 
ed hints  for  a  menu  for  the  Vegetarian, 

' '  Bibliography  (recommended  by  Gib- 
son.) Moshrooms  of  America.  Edible 
and  Poisonons,  Edited  by  Julius  A.  Palmer, 
Jr.  Numerous  colored  plates.  Published  by 
L-  Prang  a  Co.,  Boston,  1885.  'About 
Mushrooms'  a  guide  to  the  study  of  Escu- 
lent a  Poisonous  Fungi.  A  collection  of 
various  articles  upon  the  subject.  By  Ju- 
lius A.  Palmer  Lee  A  Shepard,  Boston  1894. 
'  Notes  for  Mushroom  Gaters'  by  W.  G. 
Farlow,  pamphlet  iUlustrated,  pub.  by 
Garden  a  Forest  Pub.  Co..  New  Ywk. — 
M.  L.  M. 


VEGETARIANS  CO-OPERATING. 

Mr.  C.  F.  SiUiman,  the  owner  of  a  nice 
form  in  Vineland,  writes  he  has  not  quite 
formulated  plans  for  co-operating  at  Vine- 
land  yet,  but  b  trying  to  do  so.  "My  idea 
woutdbe"  writes  Mr.  Silliman,  "to  have 
as  ferw  laws  as  possible,  and  to  make  the 
first  reqnidte  for  each  one  to  produce  what 
he  or  she  would  consume  or  pay  in  its 
equivalent;  then  no  unequal  load  would  fall 
on  any  one  and  justice  would  reign  in  so 
far  as  that  goes.  Next  to  practise  the  Gol- 
den  Rule  and   not  expect  or  require  of  an- 


other what  we  ourselves  would  not  be  will- 
ing to  do ;  to  practise  and  seek  harmony  for 
this  is  the  strength  and  support  of  all  in- 
stitutions ;  to  establish  a  Brotherhood  and 
Sisterhood  of  interests  on  all  planes,  and  as 
fast  as  we  conid  accumulate  means  or  sup- 
pcat  enough,  take  in  children  and  educate 
them  in  the  higher  life.  This  is  very  briefly 
the  idea  and  we  have  enough  ready  to 
make  a  start  and  will  likely  do  so  in  the 
Spring,  should  we  fcmnulate  any  plans,  may 
submit  them  to  you  later  on." 


THE  VEGETARIAN  HEALTH  HOME. 
Dr.  Beverly  writing  from  the  Health 
Home,  Urbana,  111.  says  the  engraving  we 
published  on  page  177  of  the  Nov.  no.; 
'illustrates  our  missionary  and  S.  S.  work 
in  connection  with  the  Health  Home.  Our 
workers  canvass  the  needy  places  and  bring 
in  the  halt  and  lame  and  blind  for  healing 
and  teaching  and  all  the  little  ones  for  teach- 
ing in  Gospel  facts,  in  connection  with 
Hygiene,  Health  &c.  This  work  is  sup- 
ported by  free-will  offerings.  All  Vegeta- 
rians ar^  invited  to  call  or  come  and  help 


A  GOOD  PLACE  TO  COLONIZE. 
Mr.  Jno.  C.  Roe,  WoodclifF,  N.  J.  writes: 
' '  I  think  WoodclifT  would  be  a  good  place 
for  Vegetarians  to  colonize.  In  fact  any 
place  would  be  suitable  for  such  a  purpose 
where  cereals,  vegetables,  fruits  and  nuts 
can  be  grown,  and  located  near  good  mar- 
kets, provided  sufficient  capital  was  invest- 
ed."— Yes  the  suburbs  of  cities  are  the  best 
places  for  this  purpose  as  home  markets  are 
the  best.  We  have  more  Vegetarians  in 
the  Frankford  suburb  of  Philada.  than  any 
other  location  we  know  of  There  are 
vacant  lots  near  by  where  fruit  and  vegeta- 
bles could  be  grown  and  carried  fresh  daily 
into  the  city,  by  trolley  cars.  The  Pingree 
plan  should  be  tried  here. 


d  by  Google 


pflUPlJE^ARDI 


"THE  LORD'S  FARM." 
By   Chauncy    Roe. 

Woodcliff  is  a  small  village  containing 
one  general  store,  one  blacksmith,  and  a 
dozen  families,  on  the  New  Jersey  and  New 
York  R.  R.,  22  miles  from  Jersey  City. 
The  Farm  is  located  t}i  miles  west  of  the 
station ;  has  a  house  a  little  larger  than  the 
ordinary  farm  house,  and  out-buildings  to 
correspond.  The  first  thing  that  attracts 
the  attention  of  a  stranger  Is  the  long  hair 
and  beard  of  four  men;  Mnason,  Titus, 
John  and  Charles;  all  surnames  are  dis- 
carded. Instead  of  the  ustial  salutation, 
"How  do  you  do"  they  say  "  Praise  the 
Lord. ' '  When  departing  instead  of 
"Good-bye"  they  say  "  Farewell." 

In  conversation,  thee,  thou,  thy,  and 
thine,  are  used.  The  religioQ  of  these  pe- 
culiar people  is  to  follow  the  example  of 
Christ  and  the  apostles  as  far  as  possible, 
holding  all  things  in  common,  and  abandon- 
ing all  forms  and  ceremonies ;  having  no 
prayers  or  meetings;  dressing  plain,  but 
neat,  with  no  ornaments  on  their  pereons, 
and  no  picttu^  on  the  walls.  Then  do  not 
believe  in  keeping  any  holidays  such  as 
Sunday,  4th  of  July,  Christmas,  etc.,  but 
that  days  of  rest  should  be  taken  only  as 
needed  and  not  set  apart  by  the  Church  and 
State.  The  originatois  of  the  Faim  are  3 
men  (Mnason,  Titus  and  John)  and  2  wo- 
men (Phebe  and  Blaudina).  They  former- 
ly belonged  to  the  Methodist  and  Lutheran 
churches  but  withdrew  from  them  about  8 
years  ago  to  live  this  life  of  celebacy  and 
self-denial  from  worldly  pleasures.  They 
do  not  believe  in  taking  medicines  or  em- 
ploying doctors,  sa3dng  the  Lord  will  give 
the  remedy  should  sickness  come. 

There  are  5  other  men  and  1  woman 
on  the  Farm  at  the  present  time,  making 
twelve  in  all.  most  of  whom  come  here 
because  they  have  no  where  else  to  go,  live 


the  life  of  self-denial  reluctantly,  and  leave 
at  the  first  opportunity.  The  Farm  proper 
consists  of  18  acres,  but  they  work  parts  of 
other  iarms  in  the  neighborhood  on  shares. 


WHY  THEOSOPHISTS  DO  NOT  KILL. 
It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  send  yott 
names  of  readers  all  of  whom  are  Theoso- 
phists,  and  we  believe  that  a  study  of  The- 
osophy  shows  clearly  the  duty  of  non-killing 
and  developes  that  sense  of  non-separateness 
which  carries  with  it  a  deep  sympathy  and 
love  for  everything  that  lives.  "Man  and 
His  bodies"  by  Mrs.  Besant  shows  clearly 
and  scientifically  why  we  should  purify  the 
body  and  is  a  strong  plea  for  Vegetarianism. 
All  Vegetarians  will  find  it  very  helpful,  as 
also  "The  Perfect  Way  in  Diet"  by  Mre. 
Kingsford.  We  wish  you  God  speed  in  the 
noble  work  your  paper  is  doing  for  human- 
ity.—Mrs.  Harriet  C.  Stein,  Seattle,  Wash. 


LIVING  FOREVER. 
I  do  not  believe  in  medicine.  I  am 
healed  forever  and  going  to  live  forever. 
SeeJohn8i  51;  Deut.7:  15;  Exodasij: 
26.  I  know  it  is  good  for  us  to  live  by  all 
His  word  and  way  and  will. — Mrs.  Cather- 
ine Overiin,  575  E.  i8th  St.,  Portland, 
Oregon. — The  texts  referred  to  by  Mrs. 
Overiin  promise  life  eternal  and  freedom 
from  sickness  to  those  who  will  obey  the 
divine  law.  Mrs.  Overiin  has  concluded  to 
obey  and  so  she  intends  to  live  forever.  In- 
asmuch as  this  perfect  obedience  has  never 
been  thoroughly  tested  we  are  ^d  Mrs. 
Overiin  has  concluded  to  try  it.  Our  friend 
Dr.  Nefi"  had  this  same  view  but  her  time 
came  and  she  left  for  the  spirit  land  and  still 
lives  there  we  believe. 


I  have  read  F.,  H.  &  G.  with  much  in- 
terest and  been  a  Vegetarian  three  yeais,  I 
feel  just  as  healthy  and  strong  as  ever. — 
Erdman  J.  Schild,  Detroit,  Mich. 

January, 


d  by  Google 


PERFECTLY    HEALTHY. 

There  is  hardly  a  person  I  meet,  that  has 
not  some  ailment :  what  is  the  cause  ?  I 
am  a  perfectly  healthy  woman ;  have  not 
touched  meat,  eggs,  tea  or  coffee  for  six 
years ;  few  women  have  the  endurance  that 
I  have,  I  never  take  cold  I  can  sit  in  a  draft 
and  enjoy  it.  Now  what  makes  the  differ- 
ence? 

This  momiug  I  moved  a  pile  ofstove- 
wood.  There  were  a  motherly  hen  and  her 
ten  chickens  at  my  feet  and  as  the  wood  had 
been  there  some  time,  there  were  thousands 
of  bngs,  worms,  spiders  and  the  hen  and 
chickens  caught  up  every  one  and  did  not 
wait  to  chew  them  but  down  they  went  kick- 
ing and  squirming.  I  believe  the  flesh  of 
the  chickens  and  hens  are  made  from  what 
they  eat :  one  of  those  bugs  if  cooked  would 
make  us  sick,  don't  you  think  that  taking 
those  bugs  and  worms  as  meat  is  a  little 
more  gentle  way  of  making  us  sick  ?  The 
eggs  are  also  made  I  believe  from  what  the 
hen  eats ;  do  these  bugs  appear  there  ?  If 
not,  where?    Something  is  making  us  sick. 

Who  was  it  that  found  feult  with  the 
nuumfl,  so  the  Lord  gave  them  quails  until 
they  became  diseased  ?  Why  should  they 
become  diseased  from  eating  quail  if  there 
vas  not  a  hidden  poison  in  the  quail  ?  We 
have  lots  of  them  here  and  I  watch  how  they 
eaL  Take  the  grass,  it  has  all  manner  of 
bi^  and  worms,  some  very  poisonous,  I  do 
sot  see  the  cow  make  nice  discriminations 
as  she  gathers  it  in.  Does  the  poison  pass 
Ihiot^h,  or  is  it  foldedaway?  Doesitnot 
show  up  in  the  flesh  later  on  and  give  this 
army  of  Drs.  achancetoeam  their  living? 
Or  does  it  show  up  in  the  milk  ?  Some- 
where disease  is  getting  in  its  work.  This 
nay  looks  like  a  broad  avenue.  I  am  not 
a  teacher  in  this  only  a  sug^fester.  What 
thought  opens  up  to  you? — Mrs.  C.  C. 
Stafford,  Etwanda,   Cal. — Will  those    who 


indulge  in  these  things  please  answer  Mrs. 
Stafford? 


'iMMMmmm 


MARTHA  J.   ANDERSON. 

The  morning,  of  Nov.  i8,  1897,  Sister 
Martha  J.  Anderson  passed  beyond  our 
sight  and  touch,  but  never  beyond  our  deep- 
est, highest  love.  She  has  been  in  failing 
health  for  some  time,  a  nervous  trouble 
which  at  one  time  threatened  blindness. 
When  our  friends  go  over  the  Border  Land 
so  near,  and  yet  in  health  and  strength  seem- 
ing so  far,  their  faults  are  forgotten  and 
their  virtues  heightened ;  the  very  faults  of 
our  dear  sister  leaned  to  virtue's  side,  being 
unjust  to  herself  in  her  unselfish  care  for  all 
others.  Her  sweetness  and  utter  forgetful- 
nessof  self  made  her  life  among  us  from  11 
to  54  years  of  age,  like  the  golden  path 
thrown  by  the  setting  sun,  all  brightness 
and  beauty,  in  whose  light  others  might 
walk  and  ever  grow  better  and  stronger. 
Funeral  services  were  held  at  North  Fam- 
ily, Sabbath  day  athalf  past  one  o'clock  to 
which  her  friends  were  invited. — Anna 
White,  North  Family,  Mt.  Lebanon. 

The  loss  of  Martha  J .  Anderson  is  a  se- 
vere one  to  our  cause  as  she  was  a  most 
devoted  friend  and  valued  contributor.  Her 
little  book  giving  account  of  the  Shaker 
Cookery  with  recipes  is  a  very  nsefril  addi- 
tion to  the  literature  of  Vegetarian  Cookery. 
The  influence  of  her  sweet  womanly  nature 
will  long  be  felt  wherever  it  is  known. 


STEMMING  THE  TIDE  OF  CRIME. 
We  Vegetarians  claim  that  a  pure  diet  of 
fruit  and  grain  will,  other  things  being 
equal,  keep  the  body  in  perfect  health  and 
strength ;  that  it  would  be  instrumental  in 
stemming  the  tide  of  crime,  disease  and 
misery  existent  in  the  present  day,  and  that 
under  its  beneficent  sway  the  cuise  of  drink 
would  cease. — Harry  Cocking's  lecture  be- 
fore the  Woman's  Veg.  Union,  London. 


d  by  Google 


■JHUUHHt.  I  J  II  I i  IMJBJIJWU,  ,!..«■.  .  fM,«.p,Ii  .1.11..  ujil  .41— ig 


flMii 

iiii»iii» 

VlOKT<U<H  SOCI 

All  communic 
■ddnwd 

Slutloi 

■tioni  for  the  Editor  to  he 

a  P.  PhltBd«1ph<a. 

RBV.    HBN 

RY  3.  CLUBB,  Bdllor. 

One  SnbKriptloti,  sacla.,  roDTSubKriptlona   |i,oo  ■  year. 

13  InicnioniSi.BO. 

line,    one    Insertion,    10  centf, 
Rh-  ullacs  I  laiertloa  $i.«». 
0.    Ptrpmtt.insUe.tis.tatttdt. 

The  new  headlines  on  every  page  have 
been  engraved  and  presented  to  theV.  S.  A. 
by  Emil  Hensler  of  Detroit.  How  do  you 
like  them  ? 


We  appear  in  clear  new  type  this  month 
which  we  hope  will  be  appreciated  by  our 
subscribers  and  induce  them  all  to  send  us 
new  subscriptions. 


Mr.  John  S.  Crow,  906  Packard  St.,  Ann 
Arbor.  Michig:an,  desires  to  organize  a  Veg- 
etarian Society  or  club.  Our  readers  there 
will  please  communicate  with  him. 


advised  to  abstain  from  beef.  She  did  so 
and  has  been  free  from  pain  eversince,  now 
nearly  a  year. 

Those  who  are  so  situated  that  Oiey  can- 
not avail  themselves  of  the  V^teterian 
Society  Mill  should  try  the  excdleat  Wheat- 
meal  supplied  by  Samuel  A.  Fowle,  Ar- 
lington, Mass.     Seeadvt. 

The  New  Race,  a  beautiful  M^aane 
published  in  Chicago,  devotes  much  atten- 
tion to  dietetic  subjects  and  favors  Ve^ta- 
rian  diet.  Dr.  Alice  B.  Stockham  con- 
tributes valuable  recipes  for  nut  food  dainties 
which  we  will  give  in  our  next.  Nut  fixxl 
is  coming  rapidly  into  favor. 

The  XJ,  S.  Agency  Company  of  Baltimore, 
M'd  has  filed  with  us  abmidaut  testimonials 
as  to  the  high  standing  and  character  of  its 
Managers  and  also  a  map  showing  the  pn^ 
erty  in  Klondike  region  owned  by  the 
companies  for  which  this  Agency  is  acting;. 
The  advertisement  of  this  Company,  else- 
where, will  inform  those  who  desire  fintiKT 
information  where  to  obtain  it. 


We  regret  that  valued  articles  from  the 
pens  of  Rev.  Wm.  P.  Alcott,  Dr.  Stair, 
Rev.  J.  M.  Allen  and  other  contributors  did 
not  reach  ns  in  time  for  this  no.  but  will 
I  future  issues. 


Attention  is  called  to  the  premiums  or 
holiday  presents  offered  in  our  advertising 
pages  for  new  subscriptions.  We  desire  to 
compensate  all  who  render  service  to  us  in 
building  up  this  publication. 

Mrs.  Mc  George  sends  us  an  account  of 
a  lady  friend  of  hers  who  is  a  prominent 
authoress  who  for  years  had  to  spend  her 
winters  in  Florida  and  get  off  her  carriage 
and  come  down  stairs  backward  and  suffer- 
ed intensely    from   rheumatism  whom   she 


The  new  engraving  on  ist  page  of  cover 
was  designed  and  engraved  by  our  good 
friend  George  Brunswick,  New  York,  and 
is  his  free  contribution  to  the  y.  S.  A. 
How  do  you  like  it?  We  regard  it  as  an 
example  of  artistic  designing  and  workman- 
ship that  does  even  George  Brunswick 
great  credit,  while  the  liberal  spirit  mani- 
fested in  the  gift  is  an  evidence  of  his  love 
for  the  cause,  of  which  he  is  an  excellent 
example. 


CANNED  HORSE  BEEF. 
It  has  been  developed  in  evidence  before 
a  London  Criminal  Court  that  sick  omnibus 
horses  are  shipped  from  London  to  Anl- 
werp  where  they  are  converted  into  excel- 
lent ' '  canned  beef ' '  and  retailed  through- 
January, 


d  by  Google 


ont  Europe  in  sealed  boxes  with  American 
labels.  This  it  is  feared  will  injure  the 
American  trade  in  the  manufactured  canned 
beef  of  Chicago  and  the  complaint  has 
reached  Washington  throagh  official  chan- 
lens.  Our  consul  reports  that  about  26,000 
hore«  are  annually  used  for  this  purpose. 


HOUDAY  GIFTS. 
Friends  making  Holiday  presents  should 
remember  that  nothing  is  more  appropriate 
than  the  beautiful  Illuminated  Bible  that 
we  advertise  at  half  rode  bottom  prices. 
The  encyclopedia  that  we  propose  to  give 
for  8  subscriptions  of  25  cts.  each  would 
fann  a  useful  present  also,  suitable  for  both 
yoong  or  cAd  friends.  This  with  8  subscript 
tkms  form  giils  for  9  persons  at  a  cost 
of  $2,00! 


PROGRESS  IN  CHICAGO. 
Vegetarianism  is  about  to  demonstrate 
its  vitality  in  Chicago  by  extending  its  or- 
ganization to  covernew  fields.  A  meeting 
was  held  in  the  Auditorium  Annex  on 
Tuesday  Dec.  7th  and  definite  shape  given 
to  plans  already  formed  for  future  work. 
The  West  Side  Vegetarian  Society  had  a 
very  interesting  meeting  last  month.  Wil- 
liam Canby  Ferris  spoke  on  "The  Testi- 
mony of  Eminent  Men  of  Past  Ages  Con- 
cerning a  Natural  Diet." 

PHILADELPHIA   VEG.  SOCIETY. 

The  November  meeting  took  place  on 
the  15th.  The  weather  was  unpleasant  but 
there  was  a  pleasant  meeting.  Rev.  A.  T. 
de  I^rsy  in  the  chair.  Rev.  H.  S.  Clubb 
addressed  the  meeting  on  the  subject  of 
Vegetarian  colonization.  He  said  that  a 
constant  effort  should  be  made  to  bring 
Vegetarians  together  especially  in  the  sub- 
urbs of  cities.  That  all  who  had  a  room  to 
spare  should  inform  him  so  that  Vegetarians 
desiring  to  come  to  the  city  could  be  accom- 


modated with  Vegetarian  families.  Mr. 
Silliman's  colony  at  Vineland  was  referred 
to  but  as  Mr,  S.  was  not  present  it  was  not 
fully  explained.  [See  Mr.  S.'s  article  page 
5]  Some  discussion  followed.  The  ex- 
pected visit  of  Countess  Wachtmeister  was 
referred  to  and  a  reception  committee 
appointed. 


BEEF-TEA  AS  POISON. 
The  Pud/i£  Ledger  of  Nov.  5th  calls  at- 
tention to  this  statement  in  Modem  Medi- 
cine for  Aug.  regarding  Beef-tea:  "The 
only  portion  of  the  flesh  of  an  animal  which 
is  possessed  of  real  nutritive  value  is  that 
part  which  has  been  active  and  alive  before 
death.  These  living  structures  are  not  sol- 
uble ;  if  they  were  an  animal  which  happen- 
ed to  fell  into  the  water  would  dissolve  like 
a  lump  ofsugar.  After  death  this  small 
amount  of  soluble  food  material  is  rapidly 
converted  into  excrementitious  matter; 
and  as  the  skin,  kidneys  and  lungs  cease 
their  action  these  poisonous  substances  rap- 
idly accumulate  within  the  body,  the  mole- 
cular or  cells  of  the  body  continuing  some 
hours  after  death.  It  thus  appears  that 
"  beef-tea,"  as  a  French  physician  recently 
remarked,  is  a  veritable  solution  of  poisons. 
The  only  portion  of  flesh  which  has  any 
nutritive  value  is  that  which  is  thrown  away 
in  making  the  beef-tea  or  extract.  The 
popular  faith  in  beef-tea  as  a  concentrated 
nourishment  has  however  become  so  thor- 
oughly fixed  and  rooted  that  sometime  will 
be  required  to  rid  the  world  of  this  errone- 
ous idea ;  but  it  is  highly  important  that 
information  upon  the  subject  should  be  dis- 
seminated as  rapidly  and  widely  as  possible, 
for  there  is  no  doubt  that  many  lives  are 
annually  sacrificed  by  faith  in  the  superior 
nutrient  value  of  meat  juices." — We  are 
glad  the  conscientious  press  of  the  country 
is  giving  publicity  to  these  facts. 


d  by  Google 


GIVING    THANKS. 

What    a    Vegetarian    Family    Gave 

Thanks  for  on  Last  Thanksgiving 

Day:     By  G.  G.  Heid.  St.   Louis,  Mo. 

AND    also    read     at     A      VEGETARIAN 

Dinner  in  Franepord,  Phila.  Nov. 
25th,  1897. 

We  thank  Thee,  kind  Father  of  merer  and  Idtc, 

For  the  Rllta  which  Thr  boooly  bnlowa. 
Pot  undlng  ua  pICDtj.  yea  I  taore  than  ecoagh  T 

As  Ihia  table  bcToteua  wellBhowa. 
We  thaoh  Thee,  kind  Fnhet,  for  frulu  nice  and  iweet. 

Such  M  orangt*.  apple*  and  grapex. 


has  just  been  brought  to  our  attention. 
We  hope  to  have  more  particulais  of 
this  product  in  our  next. 

HOLIDAY    MENU. 


tutlfnl « 


hapea. 


The«  great  bl 

Th la  table,  here 

Which  1>  fillln 

kind  Father,  that  Thon  haat  tieatow 
nslnga  which  gladden  onr  aight; 

g  oar  mioda  with  delight! 

We  thank  Thee 

Three  aavonrs'  d 
Many  garden. 

mthe  orchard  acd  field: 
.he.  of  every  kind 

find. 

We  thank  Thee 

Nobeaalaofthe 

loodhadtobeapllled; 
field,  fiih,  nor  hirda  of  the  a 

.„. 

We  thank  Thee 

That  thou  wll 
Thee  thaoka  on 
Or  we  put  tod 

hua.  Father,  fur  'tia  our  belie 
not  be  pleased  if  we  bring 
hia  day,  ifwecau«  pain  org 
alh  one  conacloua  thing. 

r, 

rief. 

We  thank  Thee  for  health,  which  we  dally  ei 

oy, 

Porhapplneaa.i 
For  we  feel  It 

ing  on  nuU,  fruil  and  grain  ; 
nee  we  thia  method  employ, 
as  brought  ua  great  gain 

We  thank  Thee,  kind  Falher,  for  gi.ing  ua  ai 
Without  living  on  animal  food: 

And  rejoice  In  a  natlaGed  mood. 

ength 
ength. 

Welhank  Thee,  and  hopeTlion  wilt  lead  nun 

To  diapenae  with  ■nbilillngon  meat, 
To  find  what  great  blenings  Ihii  life  hai  in  at 

T 

FIBERLESS  COCOANUT. 
A  very  palateable  preparation  from  cocoa- 
nut.  It  comes  in  tins  at  moderate  cost. 
It  is  adapted  for  the  table  as  a  fruit  or  nut 
butter  and  is  also  used  in  icecream,  layer 
cake,  meringue  pie,  custard,  icing  &c.  It 
is  said  to  contain  all  the  nutriment  and  fla- 
\or  of  the  cocoanut  without  the  fiber  and  is 
digestible.     It  was   patented  in   1892,   but 


Crwled  Vheat  Unah. 
e  Flake*  andCruola  with  Cream. 

Orabam  Gema. 


Cream  of  Celery  Sonp. 

Stuffed  PotatoCL 

Stewed  Tomatoea.  Cauliflower  an  Gratia. 

Graliam  Bread.  Glnleti  Bread. 

CrantietTy  Sancc. 

Plum  Pudding,  Taoitla  Sance. 

Nut*.  Raislna. 

Unfermented  Grapevine. 

TEA. 

Potato  Salad.  Celery. 

Peanut  Saudwlchea.  Olive*. 

Graham  BInnita. 

California  Grape*.  Caramel-Cereal  Ice  Cream. 

Fruit  Cake.  Fiberlea*  Cocoannt  Sandwlchea. 

RECIPES. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. — Cut  the  celery 
in  small  pieces  and  stew  until  tender.  Strain 
through  a  colander,  add  milk  until  the  pro- 
per consistency.  Season  to  taste  and  let 
come  to  a  boil. 

Stuffed  Potatoes.— Select  potatoes  of 
medium  size  and  bake.  When  done  cut  off 
one  end,  scrape  out  the  insides.  Season 
to  taste,  add  chopped  parsley  and  beaten 
egg.  Mix  all  together  and  put  back  in  the 
jackets.  Fasten  the  ends  on  with  a  little 
raw  egg  and  return  to  the  oven  to  heat. 

Cauliflower  an  Gratin. — Soak  the  cauli- 
flower head  down  in  cold  water  for  i  hour. 
Boil  until  tender,  brake  in  small  pieces  and 
cover  with  a  sauce  made  of  milk  thickened 
with  a  little  flour  and  seasoned.  Bake  a 
light  brown. 

Potato  Salad. — By  adding  a  few  cold, 
boiled  split  peas  to  this  salad  a  pleasant  va- 
riation is  afforded. 

January, 


d  by  Google 


Fiberless  Cocoanut  Sandwiches  — Use 
oatmeal  wafers  with  fiberless  cocoanut  for 
fillitti;. 

Caramel- Cereal  Ice  Cream. — 2  cups  of 
caramel -cereal  boiled  in  i  qt.  of  milk. 
Strain  through  a  bag  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
Add  one  pt.  of  cream;  sweeten  to  taste  and 
Savor  with  vanilla.  Freeze,  A  strong  de- 
coction of  any  cereal  coflTee  may  be   used. 

From  Walter  S.  Wellei.  144  37th  St .  Chicago. 

Tomato  Soup. — i  qt,  tomatoes,  i  pt.  wa- 
ter, boiled  together  twenty  minutes  ;  strain 
through  a  colander.  Add  i  qt.  milk  and  at 
the  same  time  i  teaspoon  soda.  Season  to 
taste.  Just  let  come  to  boiling  heat,  and 
serve. 

Miss  Parloa's  Vegetable  Soup. — i  pt, 
each  of  white  turnips,  carrots  and  potatoes 
all  cut  in  cubes ;  yi  pt.  leeks,  white  part ; 
I  large  onion,  i  clove  of  garlic,  i  eschalot, 
I  tablespoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of  butter, 
I  teaspoon  sugar,  }i  teaspoon  pepper,  2  qts. 
of  water.  Cut  the  onions  fine  and  cook 
slowly  with  the  butter  for  half  an  hour. 
Add  the  boiling  water  and  carrots  and  cook 
half  an  hour  longer.  Then  add  the  turnips, 
potatoes,  seasoning  and  cook  an  hour.  Add 
a  teaspoon  of  parsley  or  cerefeuil  ten  minu- 
tes before  serving.  Cream  vegetable  soup 
is  made  by  rubbing  a  portion  of  this  soup 
through  a  puree  sieve  and  adding  milk  and 
a  little  salt  to  it. 

Fried  Celery. — Cut  pieces  of  the  larger 
stalks  in  three-inch  lengths.  Wipe  each 
piece  dry  and  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs. 
Fry  quickly  in  smoking  hot  Nutcoa  or  Dia- 
mond Butter  Oil. 

"HARMLESS   MINCE   PIES." 

The  Woman's  Home  Companion  ^vbWshes 
a  recipe  for  what  it  calls  ' '  Harmless  Mince 
Pies"  among  the  ingredients  of  which  are 
beef,  beef  suet,  aqt.  of  brandy  and  lots  of 
spices.  We  humbly  offer  to  amend  with 
the  following : 


6  good  sized  lemons  J^  lb  of  apples,  i  lb. 
of  stoned  raisins,  i  lb.  each  of  currants  and 
sugar,  yi  lb.  of  fresh  butter,  3  oz.  each  of 
candied  lemon  and  orange.  Grate  off  the 
yellow  rind,  cut  the  lemons  in  two,  squeeze 
out  the  juice.  Boil  the  rinds  till  tender, 
but  not  soft,  changing  the  waters  times  and 
put  a  tablespoon  of  salt  in  the  water  in  which 
they  are  first  boiled.  When  done,  drain  the 
water  from  them  and  take  out  the  seeds  and 
pulp.  Chop  them,  with  the  raisins,  in  a 
wooden  bowl.  Add  thecurrants,  thesugar, 
the  apples  (previously  chopped  fine),  the 
grated  rind  of  the  lemons,  the  juice,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne,  a  small  teaspoon  each  of  mace 
and  cinnamon,  12  drops  of  almond  fiavor, 
the  candied  orangeand  lemon,  cut  in  thin 
slices;  and  lastly,  the  butter,  melted  and 
stirred  well  in. 

This  we  guarantee  will  be  more  palateable 
and  harmless,    while  it    will  not  shock  our 
total  abstinence  readers. 
FRENCH  BREAD  MAKING  PROCESS. 

A  French  bread  making  process  consists 
in  soaking  the  grain  and  passing  it  success- 
ively through  a  crushing  and  a  kneading 
machine,  which  converts  it  directly  into 
dough.  This  contains  the  fiiU  nutritive 
valueof  the  grain,  and  it  is  claimed,  can  be 
kept  indefinitely. 

AN  IDEAL  THANKSGIVING, 

Mr.  G,  G.  Held  of  St.  Louis,  in  sending 
us  the  beautiful  poem  which  appears  on  pre- 
ceeding  page,  wrote:  "The  various  jour- 
nals have  been  filled  with  illustrations  and 
writings  on  the  subject  of  Thanksgiving 
dinners,  and  in  jesting  about  the  poor  turkey 
killed  on  that  occasion,  making  it  appear  as 
though  our  kind  heavenly  Father  was  a 
bloodthirsty  God,towhom  sacrifices  of  life 
had  to  be  made  in  order  to  thank  Him,  and 
as  one  looks  in  vain  in  the  daily  papers  for 
an  ideal  Vegetarian  Thanksgiving,  I  submit 
the  enclosed  lines. 


d  by  Google 


RAISINS. 

A  Christmas  Poem. 

By  MSS.  JO&BPBINB  B.    Farkuan, 

Washington,  D.  C. 

ShiccUut  mytlilcal  Hinc 

When  In  prliditlTC  rhyme 
Un  Tolced  hi*  etaolloiii,  of  Ufs  la 

Sarth'i  every  tODgne, 

Vhit  poet  hiib  «Dii|r 
AwngorUie  mccDlcDt  nMti  t 

Some  Irric*  Uicre  be 

orUwIoTcd  apple  tree 
With  Ki  nreM  bfiuhr  muKi  of  blooom ; 

The  cherrji'a  red  6re 

Dolb  Dtlien  ItKplrc : 
Afld  tlie  atnirberry  oesIltDS  nrtb'B  bosom. 

In  the  besTT  perAirae 

Of  the  wbltc  orufe  bloom 
U  the  eiKBce  at  mtoj  ■  lonnet. 
'       With  the  frnll,  yellow  bright 

From  the  fay  captured  light 
Of  the  annbeami  that  dallied  npon  II. 

No  len  la  there  TetM 


e  grape;  hDl  their  praMogi 


Do  the  Tirtnet  enihrine 


The  grape  that  Ihc;  slag 

!■  the  ptrrplc-robed  King 
Of  the  Wine  ;  and  theit  ventei  the  Toldng 

Of  hie  sobjecta,  mad  glee 

InhlagingscalleredfrR^ 
Of  *  teal  BacchanaKiD  rejoicing. 

Id  the  white-tobed  aoot 

Of  the  grape  I  extol 
Isnogneaterll-pnrpaaed,  unbidden : 

No  aplrit  of  ain 

la  there  CTODChlng  wllhlti. 
No  iplrll  of  aorrow  there  bidden. 

TheapHt  of  life 

And  of  Jo]>,  that  Is  rife 
In  the  land  of  the  Ualagts  growing, 


And  *e.  living  far, 

'Neath  a  cold  Northern  gtar, 
When  we  eat  of  the  raisins,  In  rightoe)*, 

Some  measure  mast  know 

Of  the  gtadoen  add   rIow 
They  absorbed  in  the  tropical  brlghtneas, 

Ralph  Crow,  6  years  and  lo  months   old 
has  been  raised  a  \'egetariaii  and  has  never 


taken  one  dose  of  medicine  nor  been  in  bed 
one  hour  from  sickness. — John  S.  Crow, 
Ann  Arbor,  Mich. 

CARD  OF   MEMBERSHIP. 

Bertha  Lyburger,  of  Philadelphia,  about 
1 1  years  old,  called  recently,  accompanied 
by  her  mother,  and  subscribed  for  Food, 
Home  and  Garden  for  herself  and  three 
friends  paying  $1.00.  For  this  she  has  re- 
ceived an  engraved  card  (5)^x7^^)  of  Mem- 
bership in  the  Apple  Blossom  Society. 
We  hope  all  the  Apple  Blossoms  who 
can  will  apply  in  the  same  way  for  these 
cards  of  membership.  The  card  was  en- 
graved by  Mr.  Geo.  Brunswick  of  N.  Y. 
the  celebrated  Engraver,  who  has  also  fur- 
nished the  beautiful  new  engraving  for  the 
cover  of  this  no.  Every  Vegetarian  under 
1 8  years  of  age  should  have  one  of  these 
cards.  They  cannot  more  effectively  pro- 
mote Vegetarian  principles  than  by  circula- 
ting their  own   organ, 

THE  APPLE  BLOSSOM   EDITOR. 

Walters,  Weller,  14437th  St.,  Chicago, 
is  editor  of  this  page.  Communications  for 
publication  here  may  be  addressed  to  him. 
His  story  is  postponed  to  make  room  for 
Mrs.  Parkman's  beautifud  poem  on  the 
"Raisin".  Next  month  we  will  present  a 
picture  and  sketch  of  Mr.  Weller. 
THE  PUMPKIN. 

How  dear  to  our  hearts  is  the  old  yellow 
pumpkin,  when  orchards  are  barren  of 
stuffing  for  pies ;  when  peaches  and  apples 
have  both  been  a  failure,  and  berries  of  no 
kind  have  greeted  our  eyes.  How  fondly 
we  turn  to  the  fruit  of  the  cornfield — the 
fruit  that  our  children  are  taught  to  despise 
— the  old  yellow  pumpkin,  the  mud-covered 
pumpkin,  the  big-bellied  pumpkin  that 
makes  such  good  pies, — Harrisburg  Neu-s. 
January, 


d  by  Google 


f 


Mr,  Theo.  Eoss,  the  eminent  Seedsman 
and  Horticultarist,  Milwaukee,  contributes 
the  itemsmarked  "K".  He  has  also  con- 
sented to  supply  the  SEED  Premiums  else- 
where advertised  to  which  we  call  attention. 
RASPBERRY  ROOTS. 

Good  plants  of  the  raspberry  are  obtained 
by  cutting  vigorous  roots  in  pieces  four  or 
five  inches  long,  and  planting  about  eight 
incites  apart. — K. 

WOOD  ASHES. 

One  of  the  most  valuable  fertilizers  pro- 
duced on  the  farm  and  one  that  is  seldom 
given  much  care,  is  wood  ashes.  Every 
pound  should  be  carefully  saved  and  applied 
to  the  ground  around  berry  bushes  and 
fhiit  trees. — K, 

INTELLIGENT  GARDENING. 

Education  is  as  essential  for  the  gardener 
as  for  any  other  man.  Good  gardening 
consists  not  wholly  of  manual  labor ;  it  re- 
quires the  exercise  of  good  intellectual 
powers.  There  is  vast  difference  between 
scientific  and  theoretical  gardening. — K. 
HAZEL    NUTS  &    FILBERTS. 

Robert  Ho^,  pomological  director  of  the 
Royal  Horticultural  Society  of  Great  Brit- 
ain gives  the  Ibllowing  synopsis  of  nuts : 

"i.  Nuts  shorter  than,  or  husk  as  long 
asthe  nut.  Varieties:  Bond,  Cob,  Cosford, 
DowTJlon  Square,  and  Pearson's  Prolific. 

"2.  Filberts;  Husk  longer  than  nut. 
Varieties:  Frizzled,  Lambert's  Purple,  Red 
and  ^Tiite." 

The  Europeon  hazel  and  Lambert's  Fil- 
bert with  their  varieties  and  crosses  yield 
the  nuts  of  commerce. 

CULTIVATION  OF  PEANUTS. 

Mr.  jtJin  Johnson  of  Raynor,  Va., 
wnles:  "Peanuts  are  planted  in  May  in 
rows  2  ft.  9  in.  apart  and  in  hills  16  inches 


apart  in  the  rows.  They  grow  flat  on  the 
ground  and  yield  as  high  as  eighty  nuts  in 
a  hill.  We  hoe  them  twice  and  cultivate 
with  a  cultivator  four  or  five  times  if  it  is  a 
very  wet  summer.  We  generally  commence 
digging  them  October  ist.  We  plow  them 
up  and  shake  them  out  with  a  fork.  Then 
we  shock  them  up  to  dry.  When  dry  we 
gather  them  off  the  stalks  and  bag  them  in 
four  bushel  bags  and  they  are  ready  for 
market. ' ' 

THE  CAUSE  OF  FAILURE. 

Failures  in  Vegetable  Gardening  in  the 
case  of  amateurs,  are  often  due  to  bad  treat- 
ment of  the  ground .  By  bad  treatment  here 
is  meant  the  digging  or  cultivating  of  it 
while  it  is  wet.  It  takes  quite  a  time  to 
bring  ground  right,  especially  soils  of  a 
heavy  character,  after  injury  is  done  in  this 
way.  Sometimes  the  injury  is  done  and 
the  effects  follow  and  the  owner  never 
knows  how ;  looking  for  the  cause  of  the 
trouble  in  every  direction  except  the  real 
one. 

It  is  in  the  too  great  haste  to  get  seed  in 
the  ground  in  the  early  spring  that  most  of 
the  harm  on  this  account  is  done.  Far 
better  wait  a  week  or  two  than  dig  or  plow 
when  the  soil  is  too  wet  for  working. 
Lcam  too,  to  judge  of  right  condition  in 
this  respect.  Do  not  leave  the  determining 
to  the  laborer  hired  by  the  day,  perhaps, 
and  wanting  the  job.  He  may  know,  but 
he  is  liable  not  to  let  his  knowledge  count 
in  favor  of  his  remaining  idle. 

Those  who  do  not  know  should  consult 
those  who  do  as  to  this.  A  few  object  les- 
sons will  usually  put  the  novice  on  the  way 
to  a  correct  and  practical  understanding  as 
to  what  is  proper  in  this  respect. — K. 


d  by  Google 


"^imm^^rp^ 


JFOODHOME^^EARDENl 

PARKER    PILLSBURY. 


It  is  a  remarkable  feet  that  of  those  giant 
minds  that  led  the  colored  race  from  slavery 
to  freedom  in  this  country,  who  toiled  with 
voice  and  pen  and  endured  obliquy  and 
persecution  for  the  cause  of  obolition,  those 
who  have  survived  the  longest  and  still  live 
to  see  the  progress  of  the  race  they  sought 
to  emancipate,  are  not  only  abolitionists  but 
Vegetarians.  Of  these  Parker  Pillsbury  is 
a  living  illustrious  example.  We  rejoice  in 
the  opportunity  to  place  his  name  where  it 
will  perpetually  stand  among  those  who 
are  quoted  as  illustrating  the  truth  of  the 
Vegetarian  principle :  that  it  is  sustained 
by  the  best  and  purest  intelligences  and 
philanthropists  of  all  time. 

In  a  letter  dated  Concord,  N.  H.  Nov.  5, 
1897,  Mr.  Pillsbury  retparks:  "That  lam 
now  in  tolerable  health  in  my  eighty-ninth 
year  is  attributable  mainly,  as  seems  to  me, 
to  wholly  abstaining  from  all  animal  food 
more  than  a  dozen  years.  Had  I  commen- 
ced that  reform  thirty  years  before,  it  would 
have  been  easy  for  me  to  have  looked  over 
into  the  twentieth  century  at  least  ten  of  its 
years  before  my  departure  to  the  great  be- 
yond. That  would  have  been  a  century. 
You  probably  have  heard  that  I  was  bom 
in  Hamilton,  Mass.,  September  22nd, 
1809."  From  the  clear  intelligence  dis- 
played by  our  venerable  brother  there  is 
every  reason  to  believe  that  he  will  be 
spared  to  look  over  into  the  20th  century 
and  form  a  connecting  link  binding  the  two 
centuries  together  in  &ith,  hope  and  reali- 
zation of  the  blessed  building  up  of  the 
human  race  on  the  principles  of  true  hu- 
manity and  unlimited  brothehood:  a 
brotherhood  which  embraces  not  only  all 
races  of  men  but  which  extends  its  benign 
influence  to  those  creatures  which  I,amartine 
described  as  ' '  our  companions  in  labor  and 

14 


aflfection," 

Parker  Pillsbury  althotigh  best  known  in 
the  cause  of  freedom  has  also  raised  his 
voice  and  used  his  pen  in  fevor  of  Temper- 
ance, Vegetarianism  and  Peace,  and  is  like- 
wise known  as  a  friend  to  woman  insisting 
on  justice  being  done  to  her  as  the  surest 
way  of  securing  good  government  and  the 
suppression  of  intemperance.  Parker  Pills- 
bury remained  mostly  at  home  on  the  farm 
till  about  twenty  years  old.  He  was  licen- 
ced to  preach  by  the  Suffolk  Association, 
of  Boston,  and  hired  for  one  year  by  the 
Congregational  church  in  London,  N-  H. 
At  this  time  the  anti-slavery  agitation  had 
begun  to  attact  much  attention.  Outrages 
of  a  fearful  character  had  been  perpetua- 
ted upon  the  abolitionists.  Garrison  had 
been  mobbed  in  Boston,  Lovejoy  murdered 
in  Alton,  Illinois,  and  Pennsylvania  hall 
in  Philadelphia,  had  been  burned  by  a  mob. 
Being  deeply  sincere  and  earnest  in  his  con- 
victions, and  determined  to  follow  them  at 
whatever  cost,  early  in  1840,  he  abandoned 
the  ministry,  and  entered  the  anti-slavery 
conflict  by  the  side  of  Garrison,  Rogers, 
Phillips,  Foster,  and  other  heroic  leaders. 

Since  the  abolition  of  slavery,  he  has 
occupied  his  time  largely  in  the  cause  of 
liberal  radical  reform  in  politics,  social 
economy,  and  progress  generally.  He 
married,  Jan.  i,  1840,  Sarah  H.  Sai^nt 
of  Concord,  where  he  still  resides, 

James  Russell  Lowell,  writing  of  the  abo- 
litionists at  the  Bazaar  in  Boston  In  Decem- 
ber, 1846,  speaks  of :  "brown,  broad- 
shouldered  Pillsbury,  who  tears  up 
words  like   trees    by    the   roots." 

"  A  terrible  denooDcet  he, 
Olil  SInal  burna  unquenchiMr 
ITpon  hb  lips ;    be  well  mlshi  be  ■ 
KoI-blBiIng  90ul  from  fierce  Jndei, 
Habakkuk,  Eira  or  Hchcb," 

January, 


d  by  Google 


PARKER  PILLSBURY. 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


db,  Google 


MRS.  ROSA  G.   ABBOTT. 
(See  Page  29.J 


db,GoogIe 


FRANCIS    SCHLATTER. 


db,  Google 


Vol.  II,  Nbw  SsKns.  No.  14.  FEBRUARY,  1S9S.  Whole  Number  87. 

FRANCIS  SCHLATTER. 


One  of  the  most  extraordinary  characters 
that  have  appeared  in  the  century  now 
drawing  to  a  close  is  known  as  Francis 
Schlatter.  So  extraordinary  is  he  that  even 
now,  the  question  as  to  whether  he  still 
continues  in  bodily  form  upon  the  earth  is 
by  no  means  settled.  He  has  been  reported 
dead  several  times;  then  he  has  been  per- 
sonified by  a  man  who  bore  some  resem- 
blance to  him  and  who  it  is  said  effected 
cures  as  he  did,  but  who  at  last  was  report- 
ed as  having  married  and  since  then  but 
little  has  been  said  in  the  papers  either 
about  Francis  Schlatter  or  his  personifier. 

Seeing  that  Francis  Schlatter  was  report- 
ed as  being  a  practical  Vegetarian  we  wrote 
to  Mrs.  Ada  M.  Morley,  the  lady  who  is 
well  known  as  "the  Hostess  of  Francis 
Schlatter, ' '  to  ascertain  the  facts  about  him. 
In  reply  to  our  inquiries  we  received  the 
following  interesting  letter  which  is  so  frank 
as  to  convey  the  impression  of  the  most 
perfect  sincerity  and  truthfulness  : 

Hermositto  Ranch,  DatiL,  New  Mexico, 
10,  2o,  97. — My  dear  Sir: — Your  fiivor 
was  forwarded  to  me  here  and  I  take  great 
pleasure  in  sending  you  one  of  Schlatter's 
remarkable  books.  I  shall  look  with  inte- 
rest for  your  review.  I  came  down  home 
weary,  worn  and  faint-hearted  almost,  after 
a  long  10  months  struggle  single  handed  and 
alone  in  Denver,  speaking  from  a  material- 
isticstandpoint  of  course  only.  I  was  sent 
to  Denver  and  I  obeyed  but  robbers  down 
here  stole  nearly  every  thing  I  had  in  the 
house  and  yet  had  they  burned  the  house  I 
should  liave  gone  just  the  same  on  so 
nighty  a  mission  to  help  humanity. 


I,  personally,  but  theoreticaUy  mostly 
have  been  a  Vegetarian  for  years.  Heard 
Miss  Yates  at  the  World's  Fair  and  have 
read  somewhat  on  those  lines  but  I  have 
also  meantime  been  forced  to  live  on  the 
open  cattle  ranges  for  twelve  years.  I 
know  the  horrors  of  cattle  killing  and  hand- 
ling in  all  its  phases  out  here.  Cmel  is  a 
mild  word,  I  am  very  opposed  to  eating 
flesh,  but  what  on  earth  can  I  do  in  com- 
parative poverty  all  the  while  and  cattle 
the  only  food  and  product?  You  see 
Schlatter  ate  no  flesh  in  Arkansas  Hot 
Springs.  He  is  like  myself  in  this  one  thing 
only ;  for  otherwise  he  is  a  spiritual  giant ; 
he  eats  meat  when  there  is  nothing  else  on 
the  tables  as  out  on  these  open  ranges  there 
is  nothing  else  often  for  weeks.  No  nuts, 
oils,  eggs,  milk  or  natural  foods,  cattle, 
cattle  every  where. 

I  am  a  bom  natural  Vegetarian,  that  I 
know.  In  the  leaflet  I  sec  you  leave  out 
Mr.  Moore's  main  reason — ethical  grounds. 
We  have  no  right  to  take  sentient  life. 
But  no  matter  xviii  reasons  ought  to  be 
enough  for  any  one.  Had  I  wealth  I  should 
devote  it  to  humane  education  on  all  Hues. 
Anti- Vi  visection ,  A  nti  -  Flesheatin  g ,  Anti  - 
Whipping  of  children  and  all  kindred  lines 
pertaining  to  unnecessary  sorrow  and  pain. 

I  shall  remain  here  resting  for  some  time, 
in  bet  till  Schlatter  returns  for  he  is  not 
dead.  O,  mercy  no !  he  is  not  married. 
Tliat  was  that  fake  1  trapped  into  writing  to 
me  to  prove  him  a  fraud.  I  knew  Schlatter's 
writing. 

My  opinion  is  that  Schlatter  is  with  some 
tribe  of  Indians  in  Mexico, — waiting  to  re- 
turn with  increased  powers  as  he  foretold. 
You  note  his  promises  in  the  book,  the  clo.^- 
ing  pages.  He  is  hid  somewhere  like  the 
oriental  Adepts,    probably  alone   in  some 


d  by  Google 


^FOOBMOMEv^  garden! 


He  IS  too  gentle,  too  kind,  too  tender  to 
believe  jn  killing  the  speechless  world  of 
animals  uselessly,  ruthlessly  for  food.  It 
IS  barbansm  of  the  basest  sort.  I  know, 
for  I  see  it  daily  out  here.  All  forms  of 
cruelty  and  the  poor,  brave,  little  cow  pony, 
with  bleeding  mouth  and  sides  and  yet  does 
all  the  work  for  the  cattle  business. 

You  may  perceive  I  am  the  highest  type 
of  humane  crank.  Well  I  see  too  much,  1 
know  too  well  and  it's  all  wrong,  wrong. 
May  our  Heavenly  Father  speed  the  day  of 
Justice,  Mercy  and  Truth! — Yours  truly, 
Ada  M.  Morley. 

"The  Life  of  the  Harp  in  the  Hand  of 
the  Harper"  is  the  title  of  the  book  by 
Francis  Schlatter.  It  was  compiled  and 
published  in  obedience  to  his  commands  by 
his  hostess  at  Denver,  Col.  in  1897.  It 
contains  an  interesting  account  of  his  "Two 
Year's  Pilgrimage";  his  "  Fast  at  Albu- 
querque"; his  "Healing"  of  thousands 
"in  Denver",  concluding  with  a  chapter 
entitled  "The  Silent  man  speaks  for  the 
first  and  last  time." 

The  work  has  been  well  done  by  his 
excellent  hostess  whose  letter  on  the  pre- 
ceding page  will  be  read  with  much  in- 
terest. Her  faith  that  Schlatter  is  still  liv- 
ing although  reported  dead,  gives  hope  that 
Schlatter  will  yet  come  forth  with  his  won- 
derful healing  powers  aagmented  by  his 
seclusion  and  life  in  the  wilderness  of  Mex- 
ico. 

From  this  book  we  learn  that  Frances 
Schlatter  was  bom  April  29 ,  1 856  in  Alsace , 
France;  his  parents  were  fenners  and 
weavers ;  he  did  not  go  to  school  till  the 
age  of  14  ;  learned  the  trade  of  shoemaking ; 
came  to  America  in  1884;  worked  at  his 
trade  at  Jamesport,  L.  I.  but  occasionally 
working  on  steamboats ;  came  to  Denver 
in  1892  where  he  remained  till  July,  1893, 
he  felt  impelled  to  go  forth  on  a  mission  of 
self-denial  and  healing.  It  was  in  Denver 
that  he  first  began  to  contemplate  the  Christ 
life  but  he  soon  began  to  realize  that  he  had 


been  led  by  "  Father"  during  the  previous 
five  years  but  he  was  not  conscious  of  it  as 
now.  He  was  bom  reared  and  is  still  a 
Catholic.  When  only  one  year  old  he  was 
blind,  deaf  and  ruptured  and  had  always 
been  a  little  hard  of  hearing  till  cured  by 
laith  in  "Father." 

He  had  to  go  forth  from  Denver  a  foot ; 
was  arrested  at  Hot  Springs,  Ark.,  as  a  lu- 
natic because  found  barefoot  and  bareheaded 
and  claiming  to  be  guided  by  the  Father. 
He  was  five  months  in  jail  and  while  there 
was  tried  by  the  prisoners  in  "The  Kanga- 
roo Court ; ' '  was  fined  but  being  unable  to 
pay  he  had  to  receive  50  la^es  on  the  bare 
back.  The  prisoners  then  treated  him 
kindly  because  returning  good  for  evil,  he 
healed  many  of  them. 

He  was  liberated  May  14,  1893,  and  went 
to  Texas.  He  was  again  imprisoned  as  a 
lunatic  in  Throckmorton  jail  for  one  day. 
Then  he  had  to  tramp  to  California  slowly, 
healing  as  he  went  along. 

He  went  to  San  Francisco  where  he  did 
some  healing.  Lett  afoot  and  tramped 
across  the  Mojave  dessert  calling  at  the  R. 
R .  stations  for  water.  He  took  nothing  but 
flour  and  water  and  was  barefoot. 

He  reached  FlagstaflF,  Arizona,  March, 
1895,  where  he  engaged  in  herding  sheep. 
He  visited  Fort  Wingate,  N.  M.  and  went 
among  the  Navajo  Indians  healing  the  sick ; 
living  five  das^s  with  the  chief.  He  began 
his  forty  day's  fast  July  6th,  1895,  before 
reaching  Las  Lunas  and  ended  it  Aug.  15th 
at  Alburquerque. 

He  first  discovered  his  power  to  heal  by 
curing  a  friend  far  away  by  letter.  In  Den- 
.  ver  he  was  seen  and  touched  by  as  many  as 
5000  persons  a  day  most  of  whom  were 
healed  of  their  infirmities. 

The  book  gives  the  particulars  of  his 
wandering  and  healing  for  which  he  refused 
compensation . 

February, 


d  by  Google 


lIltiilifdNE^!^  garden! 


MRS.  ROSA  G.  ABBOTT. 
We  are  ^ad  to  welcome  to  the  ranks  of 
active,  earnest  and  effective  food  reformers 
the  lady  whose  portrait  appears  on  page  17 
of  the  present  number  and  whose  first  article 
for  Food,  Home  &  Garden  is  printed  in 
in  our  Garden  Department.  Mrs.  Abbott 
has  become  very  favorably  known  to  literary 
circles  by  her  contributions  to  the  Arena 
and  other  eastern  magazines.  She  is  a 
clear  and  well  poised  writer  and  we  feel  sure 
our  readers  will  accord  her  a  most  cordial 
reception.  She  is  the  wife  of  Arthur 
Vaughan  Abbott,  C.  K.  and  author  of  an 
important  work  on  the  EUctrical  Transmis- 
sion 0/  Energy. 

Mrs,  Abbott  is  greatly  interested  in  the 
practical  and  scientific  reforms  of  which  she 
regards  the  abandonment  of  Sesh  as  a  food 
an  important  step  on  account  of  the  clearer 
intellectual  vision  promoted  thereby,  believ- 
ing that  a  higher  degree  of  spiritual  attain- 
ment will  thus  be  reached  by  the  human 
race.  Her  articles  ou  Pythagorean  Diet 
have  appeared  in  some  ot  the  Metaphysical 
Magazines. 

In  a  letter  dated  Dec.  20th,  '97,  Mrs.  A, 
writes :  ' '  The  matter  of  fertilizers  is  one 
of  extreme  interest  and  I  am  glad  you  do 
not  neglect  it.  Should  you  desire  it  I  can 
prepare  a  brief  resume'  of  the  French  method 
of  attracting  gaseous  nitrogen."  We  re- 
plied in  the  afRrmative  and  her  promise  to 
do  so  followed. 

Our  fiiends  will  be  happy  to  know  that 
Mrs.  Abbott  has  been  a  strict  Vegetarian 
for  three  yeais  and  writes :  "I  find  myself 
greatly  improved  in  health  by  the  change  in 
diet. 

■'  I  had  the  pleasure  of  being  presented  to 
you  at  the  Banquet  last  year  and  I  recall 
mj-self  to  your  memory  by  means  of  the 
enclosed  proof  photograph, ' ' 

Mrs.  Abbott  recently  contributed  an 
article  entitled  "Consider  the  Bird,"  to  the 


New  Jiace  m  which  she  cleverly  introduced 
the  Vegetarian  idea  as  she  always  does 
whenever  opportunity  serves. 

We  need  not  say  how  much  we  are  re- 
joiced to  find  young  and  talented  writers 
like  Mrs.  Abbott  taking  up  the  subjects 
connected  with  Vegetarian  practice  with  so 
much  earnestness  and  ability. 


APPRECIATIVE. 

We  have  received  numerous  letters  show- 
ing much  appreciation  of  the  improvements 
made  in  Pood,  Home  &  Gasdbn  in    the 
January  no.     We  select  a  few  as  follows : 
From  ProC  Oregnraoa,  8ui(«  B«rt)«ta,  Cal. 

The  January  nb,  of  F.,  H.  &  G.  in  its 
new  dress  has  been  received.  We  like  its 
appearance.  It  can  be  seen  that  the  design 
is  a  labor  of  love,  so  much  attention  to 
details,  and  so  much  of  the  spirit  of  reform 
in  it.  If  it  had  b^en  done  for  gain  it  would 
have  been  different.  How  much  better  it 
would  be  if  all  labor  was  done  for  love  I  So 
much  has  the  idea  of  gain  grown  in  this 
country  that  such  a  condition  is  scarcely 
conceivable.  Yet  it  is  the  only  true  con- 
dition, everybody  working  for  good  instead 
of  for  gain,  the  true  condition  for  perma- 
nent progress    and  general    prosperity  and 


praise.  Thanks  to  Geo.  Brunswick  for  the 
exceptionally  tasteful  and  attractive  cover 
page.  The  introduction  of  Pomona  with 
her  cornucopia  overflowing  with  a  profu- 
sion of  delicious  fruits  and  holding  aloft  the 
flower-fringed  motto  of  "  Live  and  Let 
Live";  the  delicate  purity  of  the  border; 
the  chaste  purplish  coloring — are  all  very 
befitting.  Emil  Hensler's  original  head- 
lines are  praiseworthy  and  creditable.  The 
new  type  and  the  excellent  press-work  and 
quality  of  paper  command  the  warmest 
commendation  of  the  lovers  of  fine  ts-pog- 
raphy. 


d  by  Google 


iObiJHOME^JEARDENl 


THE    LOGIC   OF   VEGETARIANISM. 
A   speech   delivered  at    the     TTtanksgiving 

Banquet  of  the    Vegetarian  Club,  Chicago 

University,  Nov.  25th,  189^, 

By  J.  Howard  Moore. 

There  is  a  heavier  and  more  solemc  as- 
pect to  this  occasion  which  must  present 
itself  to  every  individual  who  is  really  and 
truly  conscious.  Vegetarianism  connotes 
more  than  the  neglect  by  one  being  to  sup- 
press another  for  nutritive  purposes.  Veg- 
etarianism is  one  aspect,  and  only  one,  of  a 
wide  and  profound  philosophy.  The  ex- 
ploitation of  birds  and  quadrupeds  for  hu- 
man whim  or  convenience  is  an  offense 
not  different  in  kind  from  the  offenses 
denounced  in  human  statutes  as  robbery 
and  murder.  And  the  same  logic  wbicli 
impels  abstinence  from  one  of  these  offences 
impels  everyone  who  has  the  talent  to  be 
consistent  to  refrain  from  all  of  them. 
There  is,  in  iact,  but  one  crime  in  the  uni- 
verse, and  all  varieties  of  impropriety  what- 
soever are  aspects  or  phases  of  this  crime. 
It  is  the  crime  of  exploitation  :  the  sup- 
pression of  the  interests,  lives  or  welfares  of 
some  beings  for  the  whim  or  convenience 
of  others ;  the  neglect  to  recognizethe  equal, 
or  the  approximately  equal,  rights  of  all  to 
life,  consideration  and  happiness ;  the  crime 
of  doing  to  others  as  you  would  that  others 
would  not  do  to  you. 

I  look  back  over  the  ages  of  this  world, 
not  the  ages  of  human  history  simply,  for 
the  history  of  the  human  species  is  but  a 
little  section,  the  remembered  chapter,  in 
the  history  of  the  evolutions  which  have 
been  performed  by  mundane  life.  I  look 
bock  to  the  beginning  of  life  on  this  planet, 
back  50,000,000  of  years  ago,  when  the 
first  protoplasmic  spects  sprawled  in  prim- 
eval seas.  Life  originated  in  the  sea  fifteen 
hundred  thousand  human  generations  ago. 
After  agesof  evolution  it  crept  out  upon  the 
continents,  subsequently  entered  the  forests, 


climbed  and  clambered  among  the  trees. 
became  endowed  with  perpendicularity  and 
hands,  descended  and  walked  upon  the 
soil,  invented  agriculture,  built  cities  and 
states — and  here  we  are.  Human  civiliza- 
tion is  but  the  van,  the  hither  terminus,  of 
an  evolutional  process,  which  had  its  begin- 
ning away  back  in  the  protoplasm  of  prim- 
eval slime.  The  philosopher  is  the  remote 
posterity  of  the  meek  and  lowly  monad. 

Now,  this  whole  enterprise,  this  entire 
process  of  biological  evolution,  has  been 
accomplished  by  the  survival  from  age  to  age 
of  the  fittest  to  survive,  that  is,  by  the  in- 
cessant subjection  and  elimination  of  the 
weak  and  the  simple  by  the  more  powerful 
and  sophisticated.  And  the  disposition  to 
exploit  and  to  tyrannize  manifested  by  every 
animal  that  breathes  from  philosopher  to  fish 
is  a  disposition  which  has  been  implanted  in 
the  natures  of  living  beings  by  the  necessi- 
ties of  evolution.  The  great  task  of  reform- 
ing the  universe,  therefore,  is  the  task  of 
eliminating  irom  the  natures  of  its  inhabi- 
tants the  disposition  to  be  inhospitable, 
egoistic  and  merciless,  which  has  been 
everywhere  developed  by  evolution. 

In  the  ideal  universe  the  life  and  happi- 
ness of  no  being  are  contingent  on  the 
suffering  and  death  of  any  other.  And 
the  fact  that  in  this  universe  of  ours  life  and 
happiness  have  been  and  are  to-day  so 
largely  maintained  by  the  infliction  of  in- 
describable misery  and  extinction  is  the  most 
pathetic,  the  most  stupendous,  and  the 
most  sickening  contemplation  that  ever 
invaded  human  mind.  It  is  encouraging  to 
know,  however,  that  life  in  its  highest  fonns 
that  is  as  represented  by  the  most  cultured 
aggregates  of  the  human  species  is  evolving 
rapidly  and  irrepressibly  toward  the  ideal, 
that  is  toward  a  social  state  in  which  the 
interests  and  life  of  each  individual  being 
are  more  and  more  equally  precious. 
February, 


d  by  Google 


» FOOD  HONEv^'' GARDEN! 


What  are  civilization  and  morality  ?  What 
do  we  mean  by  ethical  progress?  The 
growth  of  consideration  for  others,  nothing 
more:  simply  cessation  of,  or  abstinence 
from,  exploitation.  Conrtesy,  kindness, 
justice,  altruism,  humanity,  what  are  they? 
They  are  the  qualities  which  distinguish 
those  who  put  themselves  in  the  place  of 
others,  who  recognize  the  existence  and 
preciousness  of  others  and  who  act  upon 
others  as  they  themselves  would  be  pleased 
to  have  others  act  upon  them.  Otherism 
is  the  antithesis  of  loisses  /aire.  The 
growth  of  civility  in  the  earth  is  the  growth 
of  the  principle  or  consciousness  of  solidar- 
ity, among  its  inhabitants. 

Vegetarianism,  therefore,  that  is  absti- 
nence from  non-human  exploitation  or  the 
recognition  of  universal  solidarity,  is  re- 
lated from  this  exalted  standpoint,  to  the 
It^cof  the  Magna  Charta,  the  Declaration 
of  Independence,  and  the  modem  move- 
ments of  social  reform.  The  sympathies 
of  the  consistent  vegetarian  go  out  naturally 
to  the  stricken  and  oppressed  everywhere : 
to  Cuba  in  her  stmggle  for  autonomy ;  to 
Ireland  ia  her  misery ;  to  the  helpless  quad- 
ruped quivering  under  the  pole-ax,  and  to 
the  pitiable  proletarian  who  goes  up  and 
down  the  monopolized  universe  seeking  in 
vain  for  opportunities  to  earn  honest  nutri- 
tion. The  vegetarian  who  is  conscious 
enough  to  be  consistent  is  in  love  with  the 
univeiBe,  not  simply  with  his  wife  or  clan 
or  species.  He  strives  to  be  graceful  to 
every  being  with  whom  he  has  contact, 
however  humble  or  helpless  or  excentric 
that  being  maybe. 

And  I  surely  hope  that  we  here  to-night 
as  we  are  gathered  about  this  beautiful  and 
bloodless  banquet,  may  rekindle  our  sym- 
pathy for  the  submerged  and  unconsidered 
millions  of  every  class  and  condition  in  the 
universe.     Let  us  revow  our  vows  of  alle- 


giance to  the  prmciples  of  courtesy  andlove, 
whether  to  the  lone  worm  wandering  in  the 
twilight  of  consciousness,  the  feathered 
forms  of  the  field  and  forests,  the  heifer  of 
the  meadows,  the  simple  savage  on  the 
banks  of  the  gladed  river,  the  political  slaves 
whom  men  call  wives,  or  the  economic 
exiles  of  industry.  Others  may  do  as  they 
will,  but  as  for  me,  I  shall  devote  my  feeble 
energies,  my  life,  to  the  amelioration  of  the 
deprived  and  the  unpitied  of  this  world ; 
aud'I  shall  go  down  to  my  grave  and  out 
into  the  darkling  hereafter  with  a  bloodless 
digestion  if  I  am  the  only  animal  in  the 
to  do  it.   (Applause.) 


CURED  OF  BRIGHT'S  DISEASE- 
In  the  currant   number  of  The  Hommo- 
patkk  Recorder  the   following    translation 
from  a  Leipsic,  H,  Journal  occurs: 

"  About  seven  years  ago  a  butcher  of  this 
city,  about  thirty  years  old,  was  seized  with 
Bright's  Disease.  As  he  was  given  no 
hopes  of  recovery  by  the  physicians  here  he 
applied  to  a  physician  in  Berlin.  He  could 
only  confirm  the  diagnosis  and  prognosis, 
but  advised  him  to  try  domestic  remedies 
as  these  often  had  wonderftil  results.  He 
advised  the  patient  to  eat  copiously  of  barley 
gruel  and  water-cress.  And  lo  and  behold! 
the  straw  thrown  him  for  his  salvation  be- 
came a  firm  cable  which  saved  him  from  a 
certain  death.  He  is  at  this  day  sound  and 
well  and  the  incurable  Bright's  Disease 
has  had  to  yield  to  the  simple  domestic  re- 
medy oat  gruel  and  water-cress."  (It  is, 
however,  to  be  noted  Nasturtium  Aqtiaticum 
(water-cress)  is  an  ancient  remedy  for  dropsy 
from  kidney  disease. — Editor.) 

Do  you  not  think,  this  was  purely  and 
simply  acase,  very  remarkable  indeed,  of  a 
recovery  from  disease  by  substituting  a 
natural  food  for  the  unnatural? — A.  J. 
Watts,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

23 


d  by  Google 


JFOOD  HOMEv^^GARDENJC^ 


Pood,  Home  and  Garden. 


VI 

■TAKIAH 

SOC 

BTVto 

AUBSic*.  Publiahera. 

All    com 

■nimltalioiui   f 
ulknxlSI.,     SI 

■lion  p.  Philadelphia. 

REV. 

HKN 

RYS. 

CLUBB,  Editor. 

socu.roD 

Subscriptloiis   Ji.ooayear. 

For  la  InKTVont  S' 

line, 
Por 
0.    Pe 

one    lasertloB.    lo   ecn«, 
allaea  i  lascrtloa  Si.oa. 
rpmtc,  iBsUe,  t'S.  oatslitc. 

Aifegel 
■thlet<c 
PoitOffi 

■rtiD,  refined 
ports,  irlabeg 

■e,    Phlladelph 

nd  coDKlentiom,  fond  or  mule  and 

98  lli^  \ftL'  one  year  on  Vegetanan  fare 
she  gained  in  weight  and  health.  She  now 
weighs  136  lbs.  and  is  healthy,  havinggot 
rid  of  nearly  all  her  former  tronbles. 


Our  Christmas  enjoyment  was  greatly 
enhanced  by  the  visit  of  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Havi- 
land  and  Mr.  Geoi^  Brunswick  of  New 
York. 


We  regret  that  the  contributions  of  Theo. 
Koss  -to  our  Garden  Department  arrived 
too  late  for  this  issue.  They  will  be  in 
good  time  for  our  next. 


Mr.  Brunswick's  experience  with  the 
Vegetarian  Restaurants  at  Berlin,  Prussia, 
was  exceedingly  interesting.  Twenty-two 
of  these  restaurants  flourish  in  that  city. 

We  have  just  received  from  the  India 
Reflning  Co. ,  a  can  of  Nutcoa  which  is  an 
improvement  on  all  former  productions 
both  in  the  construction  of  the  can  and  the 
quality  of  its  contents.  There  will  be  no 
risk  in  sending  Nutcoa,  even  in  hot 
weather,  with  this  new  can. 


Each  of  the  Vegetarian  Restaurants  in 
Berlin  is  conducted  by  a  man  and  his  wife. 
The  most  refined  and  elegant  service  is  a 
marked  characteristic  and  people  patronize 
them  because  the  cooking  is  so  exquisite 
and  the  food  is  served  in  such  a  charming 
way  that  it  becomes  irresistable. 


Mr.  Reinhold  Starke,  Junction  City, 
Kansas  infonns  us  that  his  wife  six  years 
ago   was   always    sick    and  only    weighed 


The  speech  of  Prof.  J.  Howard  Moore, 
p.  23  and  23  is  a  masterly  presentation  of 
the  philosophy  of  Vegetarianism  from  Mr. 
Moore's  favorite  standpoint  which  is  broad 
and  comprehensive.  From  this  view  relig- 
ion, ethics,  philosophy,  science  and  logic 
are  focussed  in  support  of  the  Vegetarian 
ideal  life. 


Dr.  Fell,  p.  2S,  asks  if  our  animalism  and 
savagery  are  not  largely  the  result  of  our 
theological  training?  The  old  doctrine  of 
vindictive  punishment  and  making  sacrifices 
to  appease  the  wrath  of  God  have  doubtless 
had  the  effect  of  maintaining  cruel  customs, 
but  the  belief  in  such  doctrines  is  a  result 
rather  than  a  cause  of  animalism.  When 
animalism  is  overcome  by  purity  as  taught 
in  J.  Howard  Moore's  address  (see  p.  22) 
the  absurd  theology  of  which  the  doctor 
complains  will  no  longer  be  accepted  or 
believed. 


Many  minds  are  actively  striving  to  work 
out  the  ideal  of  Human  Brotherhood.  The 
Theosophists,  the  Christian  churches  and 
many  others  are  striving  at  the  same  purpose, 
but  personalities  divide  them  because  thej- 
have  not  realized  that  self-love  must  be 
sacrificed  that  the  cross  must  be  carried 
before  the  crown  can  be  achieved.  Personal 
conquest  of  carnivorous  appetites  must 
precede  the  realization  of  the  brotherhood 
ideal.  We  cannot  really  love  the  stronger 
brother  while  we  are  killing  and  eating  the 
weaker.  It  is  a  case  in  which  the  lesser  in- 
cludes the  greater.  It  is  doing  it  to  the 
least  that  constitutes  and  includes  doing  it 
to  the  greatest. 

February, 


d  by  Google 


I  FOOD  H0ME>GAR0ENI 


VEGETARIAN  HOME. 
I  am  the  founder  of  a  home  for  aged  peo- 
ple and  orphans  which  is  run  on  the  Veg- 
etarian principle  and  is  located  at  Encinitas, 
California.  Would  like  to  introduce  Nut- 
coa  to  the  Home.  Could  you  not  give  a 
donation  of  it  for  the  Home? — Mrs.  E.  A. 
Hammatt,  Box  42,  Encinitas,  Cal. — Per- 
haps some  of  our  charitable  friends  would 
like  to  order  a  crate  of  Mutcoa  sent  to  this 
Home.  We  would  gladly  send  it  but  our 
cash  is  expended  in  printing. 

FOREIGN  STAMPS. 
We  have  been  asked  if  we  would  supply 
Vegetarian  Literature  in  return  for  cancelled 
foreign  stamps.  We  reply  that  it  is  best  to 
send  such  stamps  to  our  friend  Jno.  W. 
Scott,  40  John  St.,  N.Y.  City,  and  he  will 
place  to  our  credit  the  value  thereof  for 
nhich  we  will  supply  such  books  and  pub- 
lications as  may  be  ordered  on  receiving 
notification  from  him  of  the  amount  received 
and  from  whom.  By  saving  up  cancelled 
stamps  our  friends  can  thus  contribute  to  the 
cause  and  help  it  along. 


VITALITY  IN  FOOD. 
It  is  being  discovered  that  apart  from 
chemical  composition,  there  is  an  element 
of  vitality  in  food  that  is  of  more  impor- 
tance than  its  chemical  elements.  Seeds 
are  known  to  possess  vitality  or  they  would 
not  germinate  when  moistened  and  warmed, 
This  idea  of  life,  vitality,  in  food,  was 
promulgated  200  years  ago  by  Thomas 
Tryon.  He  opposed  especially  twice  cook- 
ingas  destructive  of  the  spirit  of  life  in  food. 
Let  us  live  on  live  fruit  and  vegetables  as 
much  as  possible  in  contrast  to  dead  flesh. 


CO-OPERATION. 

Many  of  our  correspondents  who  rejoice 

in  the  improvements  in  F.,  H.  &  G.  express 

the  hope  that    the    circulation  will   be  in- 


creased as  a  result.  We  hope  so  and  to 
this  end  we  ask  the  co-operation  of  all  our 
readers.  An  effort  if  generally  made  now 
would  place  the  magazine  in  good  financial 
condition  to/  all  must  do  somelking  towards 
it  in  order  to  accomplish  this  result.  We 
are  spending  more  than  we  can  afford, 
hopingour  friends  will  appreciate  the  effort 
and  rally  to  our  support.  Send  subscrip- 
tions now,  please. 

NITROGENOUS  VS.  STARCH  FOOD. 
Dr.  Roberts  of  Chicago  desires  to  see  the 
subject  of  starch  food  or  Densmorism  dis- 
cussed in  F.,  H.  &  G.  It  has  been 
discussed  in  the  English  Vegetarian  publi- 
cations and  it  has  been  pretty  generally 
conceded  that  the  liberal  use  of  fruit  and 
nut  food  and  pulse  is  a  great  improvement 
over  a  dietary  in  which  starchy  cereals  pre- 
dominate. Good  common  sense  in  select- 
ing from  nature's  storehouse  is  a  great  help. 
Dr.  Densmore  discontinued  Natural  Food 
as  his  persistent  use  of  flesh  was  distasteful 
to  all  true  food  reformers. 


INTERNATIONAL    EXPOSITION. 

We  have  received  a  prospectus  of  an  Ex- 
position to  be  held  April  25  next  and  five 
consecutive  weeks  at  the  Grand  Central 
Palace,  N.  Y.  It  is  to  include  all  Sanitar>' 
Appliances,  Foods,  Electricity,  Architec- 
ture 4c.  with  Living  Picture  Illustrations. 
Quarantine,  Drainage,  Plumbing,  Cooking 
and  every  known  method  of  promoting 
health.  Mr.  B.  G.  Green,  Grand  Central 
Palace,  is  announced  as  Secretary.  If  the 
management  desire  the  co-operation  of 
Vegetarian  Societies  we  suggest  that  Mr. 
or  Mrs.  Arthur  Haviland  be  added  to  the 
Advisory  Board.  Mr.  Haviland's  office 
address  is  Room  9,  Central  Depot,  which 
we  presume  is  convenient  to  the  Central 
Palace. 

25 


d  by  Google 


MENU  FOR  DAY   IN     FEBRUARY, 

BREAKFAST. 

Baked  Applea.         Raliton  Breakfast  Food.        Cteam. 

Baraloga  Potatoes. 


Almond  BUItn. 


Glulni  Bread. 


BoMed  9p1lt  Pcu.  Corn    Prlllen.       Potato  Pie. 

Thin  BroiiD  Bread  aod  Bolter.  OllTca, 

Oatmeal  Wafer*.  Salted  Pecans. 

Preserved  StTawberrle*.  Fruit  Cake. 

Black  Walnut  Candy. 
Baoaaat.  Aaaorled  Nuts.  Raisins. 

RECIPES. 

From  Tabli  Talk. 

Staffed  Figs. — Use  "bag"  figs  which 
have  not  been  pressed.  Cut  a  small  slit  in 
each  fig  and  work  in  two  blanched  almonds. 
Another  way  is  to  remove  a  portion  of  the 
soft  interior  and  fill  up  with  nut  paste,  made 
of  a  mixture  of  ground  almonds,  walnuts 
and  hickory  nuts. 

Barley  Crystal  MufEns. — Mix  together  i 
pt.  of  entire  wheat  flour  and  i  cup  of  barley 
crj-stala,  yi  teaspoon  of  salt  and  i  teaspoon 
of  sugar.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  i  cup  of  milk 
and  stir  into  the  dry  mixture.  Add  more 
milk,  if  needed,  to  mix  to  a  thick  drop  bat- 
ter, also  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Stir  in  quickly  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  fill  greased 
gem  pans  ^i  full.  Bake  25  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven  and  serve  hot. 

Ftoni  Mln*  Amy  Mclia1<. 

Black  Walnut  Candy. — 2  cups  granulated 
sugar,  I  cup  of  water,  4  tablespoons  vine- 
gar, lump  of  butter  size  of  a  hickory  nut. 
Boil  until  it  grains.  Pour  this  over  i)4 
cups  of  black  walnut  kernels. 

One    of   our    correspondents   writes    for 
recipe  for  Vegetable  Toilet  soap.     Can  any 
of  our  friends  furnish  the  same  ? 
26 


DIAMOND   BUTTER  OIL. 
Having  used  your  Diamond  Batter  (M 
for  several  months  I  am  well  pleased  with  it. 
— S.  H.  Piatt,   Southern  Pines.  N.  C. 

WHAT    IS    THOUGHT  OF  NUTCOA. 

Some  time  last  month  I  received  a  pack- 
age of  Nutcoa  from  you  and  we  have  been 
giving  it  a  good  trial  before  reporting ;  I 
must  say  for  it,  that  ft  is  the  finest  substi- 
tute for  the  common  shortening  materials 
we  have  yet  tried :  food  prepared  with  it 
has  a  delicate,  nutty  flavor  which  to  our 
tastes  is  most  pleasing  and  delicious.  I 
shall  use  little  of  any  other  material  as  long 
as  this  can  be  obtained  at  living  prices. — 
S.  W.  Snyder,  CentrePoint,  Linn  Co.,  Iowa. 
BARLEY    CRYSTALS. 

We  have  received  from  Messrs  Farwell 
&  Rhines,  Watertown,  N.  Y.  sample  canis- 
ters of  their  Barley  Crystals  which  contain 
1 1. 8  albuminoids  &  75.9  of  carbo  hydrates, 
a  small  percentage  of  oil  and  phosphates. 
We  have  given  the  Crystals  a  thorough  trial 
and  find  them  easily  prepared  and  especial- 
ly well  adapted  for  use  as  a  breakfast  dish 
of  a  very  nutritive  character.  It  is  also 
excellent  for  a  gruel  to  be  used  either  for 
infants  or  convalescent  adults  being  an 
excellent  tonic  in  cases  of  fever  and  gastric 
troubles. 

RALSTON  BREAKFAST  FOOD. 

We  have  received  from  the  Purina  Mills, 
St.  Louis,  through  James  A.  Mc  Caflrey  « 
Sons,  4007 — 9  Market  St.,  Phila.,  packages 
of  Ralston  Breakfast  Food  and  have  given 
it  a  fair  trial.  It  is  very  easily  prepared  in 
ten  minutes  and  makes  a  ver>'  delightM 
breakfast.  It  consists  of  wheat  granules 
which  when  stirred  into  boiling  water  form 
a  ver>-  palatable  dish  in  a  few  minutes.  It 
February, 


d  by  Google 


is  also  good  for  gems  and  pancakes  and 
being  manu&ctored  on  a  liberal  scale  and 
sold  inconvenient  packages  can  be  adopted 
nniversally  for  either  winter  or  summer  use. 
It  is  endorsed  by  the  Ralston  Health  Club 
of  Washington,  D.  C,  We  have  great 
pleasure  in  adding  the  endorsement  of  the 
Vegetarian  Society  of  America. 

Purina  Health  Flour, 
We  have  also  received  from  the  same 
manufacturers  a  bag  of  the  Purina  Health 
Flour  and  we  have  succeeded  in  making  it 
into  excellent  whole  wheat  bread.  Itcomes 
nearer  to  the  Graham  ideal  than  any  other 
whole  wheat  fiour  we  have  been  able  to 
obtain. 

DO  WE  EAT  TOO  MUCH  MEAT? 
Mi5-  Rorer,  in  the  Ladies'  Home  Journal 
for  January  asks  the  question :  Do  we  eat 
too  much  meat  ?  and  goes  on  to  prove  that 
we  do  in  the  following  articles ;  ' '  Aged  peo- 
ple should  eat  very  little  meat ; "  "  Vege- 
tarianism is  coming  into  favor ; "  "Diseases 
caused  by  excessive  meat  diet ; "  "  Physical 
breaking  down  of  meat  eaters;"  "Three 
simple  and  nourishing  meals;"  From  the 
latter  we  quote  the  following : 

"  I  trust  my  readers  will  not  think  for  a 
moment  that  I  am  condemning  entirely  the 
use  of  meat.  Individually,  I  use  all  (with 
the  exception  of  pork  and  veal)  in  modera- 
tion, and  toward  the  close  of  the  day.  From 
long  experience  I  have  found  that  a  heavy 
morning's  work  can  best  be  accomplished 
on  a  break&st  composed  of  a  well-cooked 
cereal  and  fruit,  with  perhaps,  a  cup  of 
French  coffee,  or  cereal  coffee,  and  a  piece 
of  well-toasted  whole  wheat  bread.  The 
noonday  meal ,  especially  if  work  is  to  be 
continued  in  the  afternoon,  should  be  com- 
posed of  a  cream  soup,  with  whole  wheat 
bread,  an  omelet,  some  of  the  higher  forms 
of  nitrogenous  food,  in  the  proportion  of 
one-third  to  two-thirds  carbonaceous   food. 


Fruits,  again,  may  be  taken,  if  they  agree — 
a  baked  banana,    a  baked  apple,  peaches, 
pears,  or  any   of  the   very    ripe,    sub-acid 
fruits.  " 
FOOD  FOR    BRAIN  AND  NERVES. 

Of  all  the  food  that  makes  brains,  the 
blanched  almond  is  the  best  and  gives  the 
highest  nerve  or  brain  and  muscle  nourish- 
ment. The  person  who  wishes  to  keep  his 
brain  power  up  would  do  well  to  include 
these  in  his  daily  bill  of  fare.  Juicy  fruits 
give  more  or  less  of  the  higher  nerve  or 
brain  food,  and  should  be  eaten  by  all  who 
earn  their  living  by  their  clearheadedness. 

The  German  analytists  say  that  the  apple 
contains  a  larger  percentage  of  phosphorus 
than  any  other  fruit  or  vegetable,  and  that 
it  is  wonderfully  adapted  to  renewing  the 
essential  nervous  matter  of  the  brain  and 
spinal  cord.  The  acid  of  the  appleseems  to 
eliminate  from  the  body  noxious  matter, 
which,  if  retained,  makes  the  brain  heavy 
and  dull,  besides  causing  jaundice,  skin 
eruptions  and  other  troubles.  A  good  ripe, 
raw  apple  is  one  of  the  easiest  of  vegetable 
substance  for  the  stomach  to  digest  under 
normal  conditions.  Prunes  make  one  proof 
against  nervousness,  but  are  not  muscle- 
feeding. — New  Ideas. 
FRESH   GATHERED   FRUIT  &   VEG. 

The  only  true  way  of  living  is  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Vegetarian  diet.  Fruits  and  nuts, 
are  the  best  for  vital  force,  cooked  food 
loses  that  element  called  "glame"  by  Ral- 
ston. This  summer  I  realized  the  effect  of 
fruit  and  vegetables  that  were  consumed 
soon  after  gathered  and  I  realized  how  im- 
portant it  was  to  live  where  I  could  get  my 
strawberries  picked  a  few  minutes  before 
they  were  placed  on  the  table ;  a  near  neigh- 
bor supplied  them  daily  during tlie  season. 
Sweet  com  and  peas.  I  have  no  relish  for  if 
not  cooked,  as  soon  as  gathered. — Fannie 
B.  Ballou,  Attleboro  Falls,  Mass. 
27 


.V  Google 


^FOOD  HONEv^^GARBENI 


NO  MURDERS    AMONO  KIMhk;-. 

Your  little  verse  "Humanity  in  Japan" 
in  the  Oct.no.  is  an  eye  opener  to  the  fact 
that,  although  designated  "P^;an"  in  the 
Christian  nomenclature,  the  Japanese  as  a 
nation  in  refinement  and  humanity  are  away 
ahead  of  this  "Christian"  nation  and  this 
feet  you  do  not  propose  to  conceal . 

This  will  serve  to  introduce  a  brief  ex- 
tract from  the  pen  of  an  eminent  writer  and 
lecturer,  Lyman  C.  Howe,  that  I  met  in  my 
reading  the  other  day ;  because  so  appropos 
to  your  main  line  of  thought  in  condemning 
the  slaughter  of  animals  for  human  suste- 
nance: "Mr.  Ghandie,  the  Janist  Hindoo, 
is  a  brilliant  and  physically  well  equipped 
man.  But  he  kills  nothing  to  eat  and  he 
says  that  among  his  people,  representing 
five  millions,  it  is  the  religious  law  incul- 
cated from  earliest  childhood  and  from 
generation  to  geuemtion  that  man  should 
never  kill  either  man  or  brute ;  and  they  live 
on  fruits,  cereals  and  vegetables.  As  a  ' 
result  of  this  system  of  living  there  has  not 
been  a  murder  committed  among  his  people 
iu  5000  years !  Think  of  that,  ye  Christians, 
with  your  systems  of  carnivorous  cruelty, 
savage  divinity,  fratricidal  instincts,  wars, 
murders,  slavery  and  suicidal  epidemics." 

Is  not  our  animalism  and  savagery  largely 
the  result  of  our  theological  training? — V- 
Fell,  M.  D.,  Nashville,  Tenn. 


VEGETARIANISM  IN  BRIEF. 
The  principles  of  Vegetarianism  are  per- 
fect. Meat  is  not  essential  to  man's  exist- 
ence as  many  think  for  in  the  beginning 
man's  diet  contained  no  meat  at  all  and 
since  man  ate  no  meat  in  the  beginning 
why  does  he  need  it  now?  But  let  us  have 
Scripture  for  what  we  say:  "  And  God 
said :  I  have  given  you  every  herb  bearing 
seed,  which  is  upon  the  face  of  all  the 
earth,   and  every  tree,  in  which  is  the  fruit 

28 


of  I  tRV  vuklmg  sioed  ,  to  vou  it  shall  be 
fur  uiciit.    — GcQcsia  1 — ay. 

The  primitive  diet  of  man  is  the  best. 
Because  of  its  primary  tissue-building  prin- 
ciples it  contains  the  elements  which  go  to 
make  pure  blood,  healthy  flesh,  and  a  clear 
brain  in  their  most  simple  and  easily  digest- 
ed forms.  Flesh  food,  on  the  other  hand, 
is  in  a  secondary  state,  because  it  is  nothing 
more  or  less  than  vegetable  food  digested 
and  re- vitalized  and  made  into  flesh. 

Flesh,  then,  is  a  material  which  is  manu- 
factured by  digestion  and  absorption  of 
physical  bodies,  from  the  vegetable  king- 
dom ;  therefore  when  we  eat  flesh  we  are 
only  eating  the  elements  of  vegetables  in  a 
very  imperfect  state,  as  the  virtue  of  the 
vegetables  must  of  necessity  have  lost  some 
of  its  energy  during  the  process  of  transfor- 
mation from  the  vegetable  to  the  physical. 

It  only  appeals  to  the  reason.  Flesh 
should  not  eat  flesh.  The  proper  diet  of 
man  is  herbs,  fruit  and  nuts.  They  contain 
all  the  elements  needed  for  the  structure  of 
the  human  body  and  when  man  lives  on 
these  alone  he  has  better  health,  a  clearer 
brain  and  a  good  and  agreeable  disposition. 
—J.  A.  Shopen,  Elgin,  111. 

CRIPPLING  GOLIAH. 
I  feel  that  since  I  have  given  up  the  eat- 
ing of  auimal  food,  I  have  crippled  that 
Goliah,  the  Philistine  champion,  that  David 
killed.  I  do  not  feel  that  I  have  killed  him 
dead,  but  I  am  free  from  the  appetite  of  all 
animal  substances. — Rev.  J.B.Johnson,  Va. 


THE  FOOD   FOR  BICYCLING. 
Dr.   Lucas  Championniere  of  Paris  who 
has  devoted  a  good  deal  of  attention  to  the 

subject,  claims  that  during  protracted  efforts 
at  bicycling,  fruit  and  plenty  of  liquid  is 
better  than  nitrogenous  food  and  his  posi- 
tion  is  approved  by    the   British   Medical 

Journal. 

Februar>-, 


d  by  Google 


f 


mn    CENTURY    HORTICULTURE. 


By  Rosa  G.  Abbott. 


The  testimony  of  the  Countess  Wacht- 
meister  in  your  December  issue  of  Food, 
Home*  Garden,  against  the  use  of  animal 
fertilizers,  is  of  extreme  interest.  The 
\-aIue  of  seaweed  in  securing  a  bountiful 
yield  is,  I  think,  not  generally  known :  but 
along  the  sea  coast  of  New  England  it  is, 
and  the  fanners  avail  themselves  of  the  sea- 
weed so  abundantly  gathered  there. 

French  vinegrowers  have  long  been  con- 
vinced of  the  superiority  of  mineral  and 
vegetable  fertilizers  when  wine  is  to  be  made 
from  a  vintage ;  and  the  ancient  poet  Virgil 
tEcommended  ftequent  leguminous  crops 
to  secure  the  enrichment  of  an  impoverished 
soil. 

Twentieth  century  science  will  undoubt- 
edly Qshei  in  many  novel  and  valuable 
reforms :  among  which  the  following  will, 
Ibelieve,  prove  to  be  not  only  of  wide  reach- 
ing import  in  agriculture  and  stock  raising, 
but  abo  in  race  improvement,  ethics  and 
psychical  development.  Recent  statistics 
show  that  the  great  cattle  ranges  of  the 
West  are  degenerating  in  two  ways:  first, 
in  the  numbers  of  stock  produced;  second, 
in  deterioration  of  the  stock.  Since  1893 
thb  decrease  and  deterioration  are  said  to 
be  markedly  apparent ;  the  explanation 
being  that  foreign  immigrants  are  appropri- 
ating the  ranges  and  transforming  them  into 
fenns.  As  the  American  states  increase  in 
population,  it  is  evident  that  land  can  be 
more  economically  administered  through 
scientific  agriculture  than  by  allowing  it 
to  be  nsed  wild,  for  the  precarious  grazing 
for  herds  of  starveling  quadrupeds. 


Now,  in  conjunction  with  the  above 
statement,  comes  the  assurance  of  certain 
progressive  investigators  that  "/Ae  future  is 
ivith  the  Vegetarians":  and  that  future  ag- 
ricultural methods  will  be  tremendously 
enlarged  in  scope ;  embracing  not  only  an 
employiuent  of  that  magical  agent  "elec- 
tricity' '  for  the  stimulation  of  plant  growth, 
but  that  of  artifical  nitrogenous  nutrition 
of  plants,  as  well ;  that  is  to  say,  an  addi- 
tional supply  of  gaseous  nitrogen  will  be 
secured  to  the  plant, over  and  above  the 
nitrates  now  administered  through  the  va- 
rious mineral  and  vegetable  fertilizers.  Ex- 
periments prove  that  the  very  nitrogenous 
legumes  (beans,  peas  and  lentils)  can  be 
made  to  attract  an  increase  of  gaseous  ni- 
trogen by  intensive  culture :  and  that  other 
plants  may  be  artificially  fed  and  stimulated, 
so  that  they  will  not  only  yield  far  more 
frequently  and  abundantly  than  at  present, 
but  that  they  may  become  richer  in  fibre, 
more  luscious  in  flavor  and  of  any  desired 
size  and  weight. 

The  resources  of  the  Vegetable  Kingdom 
are  not  yet  fully  made  manifest.  Intelligent 
horticulture  may  secure  to  us  floral  decora- 
tions of  fairy-like  beauty  and  luxuriance. 
Intelligent  forestry  may  re-create  the  de- 
nuded American  deserts,  prairies  and  moun- 
tain slopes  whose  verdure  has  been  so 
wantonly  wasted.  Intelligent  farming  may 
insure  a  fruitful  transformation  of  fields  and 
market -gardens ;  so  that  not  only  will  no  one 
sigh  for  the  gory  flesh-pots,  but  ail  will  be  as 
devout  Parsees,  reverently  depending  upon 
the  bloodless  bounty  of  the  great  earth- 
mother. 

The  marvellous  possibilities  of  intensive 
plant-culture,  as  described  by  Mr.  Bellamy 
iu  his  prophetic  work  "  Equality,  "  are  not 


d  by  Google 


overstated  The\  will  be  realized  And 
as  Twentieth  century  humanitananism  re 
gards  its  helpful  and  affectionate,  but 
speechless  compa.nions,  it  will  exclaim  with 
him:  "poor  thing!  How  could  we  bring 
ourselves  to  eat  you?  How  could  we, 
indeed"? 


The  fiist  Beet  Root  Sugar  Factory  in  N. 

Y.  is  located  in  Rome,  N.  Y.  An  illustrated 

history  of  this   enterprize  is  given  in  the 

Holiday  No.  of  the     Fruit  Trade  Journal. 

THE  MANGOSTEEN. 

The  mangosteen  is  a  fruit  that  transcends 
all  others  in  the  opinion  of  those  who  know 
it.  Some  of  them  have  lately  been  sent  to 
this  country  from  Trinidad,  in  good  con- 
dition, and  there  seems  no  reason  why  the 
fruit  should  not  be  successfully  imported, 
seeing  that  it  enjoys  the  protection  of  a 
thick  leathery  rind. — The  Echo,  London. 
THE  CORAL  BERRY 

This  beautifiil  crimson  berry  is  discribed 
by  S.  L.  Watkins,  Grizzly  Flats.  Cal.,  in 
the  Fruit  Trad^  Journal  as  of  good  size  and 
deliciously  flavored  being  a  rich  acid  and 
delightful  aroma  entirely  different  from  any 
other  berry.  It  is  used  for  all  the  purposes 
strawberries  are.  It  is  propagated  by  suck- 
ers like  the  raspberry. 

BUSH  LIMA  BEANS. 

The  introduction  of  the  bush  varieties  of 
Lima  beans  was  an  important  matter.  The 
labor  of  cutting  poles  and  the  extra  labor  of 
caring  for  the  pole  Limas  made  the  growing 
of  them  a  risk.  At  the  experiment  station  it 
has  been  found  that  beans  grown  in  drills 
produced  twice  as  much  as  those  grown  in 
hills.  As  the  bush  Limas  may  be  planted 
with  a  seed  dill,  in  rows,  and  require  no 
poles,  they  can  be  grown  more  profitably 
than  heretofore.  There  are  also  varieties  of 
bush  Limas  that  are  as  large  as  the  pole 
kinds,  and  they  bring  good  prices  in  market. 
—Phila.  Record. 

30 


THE   OZARK    FRUIT  REGION. 

A  reporter  correspondent  of  the  Fnt^ 
Trade  Journal  claims,  after  traveling  along 
the  Memphis  and  Kansas  City  R.  R.  that 
this  country  (in  Arkansas  and  Missouri) 
is  pre-eminently  the  home  for  the  fruit 
grower;  that  California.  N.  Y.  and  Mich, 
fruits  are  too  dear  for  the  poor  of  the  great 
cities  to  buy,  and  that  a  fruit  region  in  tiie 
heart  of  the  Mississippi  Valley  mi^t  be 
developed  thus  making  fniit  cheap  and 
abundant  in  all  our  large  cities.  He  pre- 
dicts that  twenty  years  hence  the  Ozark 
fruit  belt  will  be  the  home  of  King  Fruit  in 
the  U.  S.  being  within  easy  access  to  the 
greatest  fruit  markets.  It  is  adapted  10 
apples  and  peaches. 
PINGREE    ALLOTMENT    SYSTEM. 

Vegetarians  everywhere  use  your  influ- 
ence with  land  holders  in  pushing  the  Pb- 
gree  system  of  allotting  vacant  lands  in  citv. 
town  or  country  to  the  poor  where  they  can 
raise  their  own  vegetables.  This  is  not 
charity  because  the  land  holder  loses  noHi- 
ing  while  the  poor  are  thus  provided  with 
the  best  food  and  an  opportunity  to  eam  it 
by  working  in  their  own  (for  the  tunej 
gardens.  The  self-employed  thos  have  an 
opportunity  to  work  and  harvest  on  their 
land,  while  the  land  holder  gives  nothing 
and  receives  in  return  well  kept,  culti^'ated 
land,  irrigated,  leveled  and  fenced,  thereby 
adding  to  the  beauty  of  the  locality,  in  place 
of  uneven,  weedy  field,  worth  less  on  the 
market  and  a  public  nuisance.  Let  vege- 
tarians establish  bureaus  where  land  hold- 
ers could  place  lands  at  the  disposal  of 
those  in  need. — Ray  G.  Edwards,  Pres'i 
Ethical  Ralston  Society,  Raskin,  Tenn. 

The  Georgia  Electric  Journal  publishes  a 
case  of  Diptheria  where  a  child  given  over 
by  the  doctor  was  given  pineapple  juice. 
It  seemed  to  clear  the  throat;  swallowing  be- 
came easier,  and  the  child  recovered. 
February, 


d  by  Google 


WALTER  S.  WELLER. 
The  gentleman  who  has  taken  so  much 
interest  in  our  Apple  Blossom  page  is  Wal- 
ter S.  Weller  whose  picture  we  herewith 
present  to  the  Apple  Blossoms  in  order  that 
they  may  become  better  acquainted.  The 
picture  was  taking  in  1895  at  La  Porte  Ind., 
Mr.  Wellercame  upon  life'sstage,  Dec.,  ist 
1857,  so  that  he  is  now  forty  years  of  age. 
Love  for  children  is  his  predominating 
characteristic  and  being  an  earnest  Vege- 
tarian he  takes  a  great  interest  in   influenc- 


ing young  people  to  refain  from  all  unclean- 
ness  of  the  flesh.  His  grandfather  was  Rev. 
Hemy  Weller  pastor  of  the  Swedenborgian 
Church  at  La  Porte.  His  father  was  John 
S.  Weller  who  removed  with  his  fomily  to 
Chicago  in  1873,  Walter  S.  coming  with 
them .    On  his  mother's  side  he  is  related 


to  Bircher  the  celebrated  artist. 

The  Wellers  are  well  known  in  theologi- 
cal circles  as  publishers  of  the  New  Church 
•Independent,  a  spirited  monthly  Sweden- 
borgian publication,  but  without  ecclesias- 
tical trammels,  taking  an  independent 
course  in  support  of  the  system  of  theology 
and  ethics  promulgated  by  Swedenborg  and 
illustrated  in  the  general  advance  of  all 
Christian  Churches  toward  a  recognition  of 
the  divinity  of  Christ  as  the  incarnated  Lord 
and  Savior  of  mankind. 

Walter's  part  in  the  magazine  has  been 
chiefly  that  of  printer.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  Sixth  Presbyterian  Christian  Endeavor 
Society,  serving  since  1890  on  various  com- 
mittees. We  sent  Food,  Home  and 
Garden  in  exchange  for  the  Independent 
and  Walter  commenced  reading  it  and  soon 
became  convinced  that  the  killing  of  innoc- 
ent animals  was  unnecessary  cruelty. 

He  believes  now,  after  a  fair  trial  of  the 
Vegetarian  practice:  "that  cereals,  grain, 
fruit  and  nuts  are  the  proper  food  of  man. ' ' 
He  partakes  of  milk  and  eggs  but  when  he 
can  obtain  good  substitutes  for  them  he  will 
discontinue  them.  Hesaj-s:  "  I  never  drink 
till  I  am  through  eating.  I  use  cereal  coffee 
in  the  morning,  making  it  pretty  strong:  for 
the  other  meals,  milk  and  hot  water :  I 
never  use  vinegar  nor  condiments." 

"  I  have  had  much  better  health  since  I 
became  a  Vegetarian.  My  headaches  have 
not  been  as  frequent.  On  one  occasion  I  was 
directly  exposed  to  malarial  fever,  but  I  did 
not  take  it.  Vegetarian  diet  has  helped  me 
spiritually  as  well  as  physically.  I  have 
been  able  to  curb  my  temper  better.  I  am  a 
Swedenborgian;  a  member  of  Rev.  L-  P. 
Mercer's  Church,  42nd  place  &  Berkley  Ave. 

31 


d  by  Google 


In  Nov.  1895,  he  joined  the  Englewood 
branch  of  the  C.  Vegetarian  Society,  and 
in  May,  1896,  was  elected  Treasurer  thereof . 
In  March  1897,  he  was  re-elected  to  that  of- 
fice which  he  continues  to  fill  acceptably. 

LULU     WILLIAMS. 


Bv  Walter  S.  Weller. 


Lulu  Williams  was  a  bright,  pretty  child, 
five  years  old.  She  had  fair  complexion, 
blue  eyes,  and  golden  hair.  She  was  the 
youngest  of  four  children.  Her  sister 
Stella  was  three  years  older  and  her  brothers 
Alfred  and  Edward  were  ten  and  twelve 
respectively.  She  was  a  Vegetarian  and 
had  the  Apple  Blos.soui  complexion. 

One  Sabbath  morning  Lulu  was  up  very 
early  for  she  was  to  be  baptized  that  day. 
She  had  been  looking  forward  to  this  time 
with  great  delight. 

After  saying  her  prayers  she  began  talking 

32 


to  her  sister  who  assisted  her  in  dressing. 

"If  I  am  baptized,  will  it  make  me  a 
good  girl  ? ' '  she  asked. 

"  It  ought  to,  dearie,"  replied  Stella, 
giving  her  a  kiss. 

"I'm  going  to  try  and  be  awful  good, 
Stella, ' '  said  Lulu,  twining  her  arms  aronnd 
Stella's  neck. 

"  That's  right,  darling,  "  said  Stella, 
"but  you  mast  not  forget  to  ask  God's  help." 

"  O,  no,  no,  I  never  could  forget  about 
that;  there  would  be  no  use  in  my  trying  all 
of  my  own  self. ' ' 

"  That's  my  nice  little  girlie,"  said  her 
mother,  "you  can't  be  really  and  truly  good 
without  the  dear  Heavenly  Father's  help." 

"  I  wish  I  could  get  over  being  so  cross 
sometimes,"  said  Lulu,  "  It  hurts  everj* 
body's  feelings  so,  when  I  am  not  kind  and 
loving  all  the  time." 

' '  You  are  good  a  great  deal  of  the  time, 
said  Alft'ed,  who,  with  his  brother,  was  in 
the  room,  reading  some  good  books. 

"  But  I  want  to  be  good  all  the  time," 
persisted  Lulu. 

* '  If  you  are  too  good.    Lulu,   we  shall 
think  you  are  going  to   Heaven   soon; 
said  Edward. 

She  behaved  very  nicely  in  the  church,  at 
her  baptism.  She  fully  appreciated  the  sol- 
emn service ;  and  she  felt,  indeed,  that  she 
had  been  consecrated  to  God  ;  and  her  par- 
ents always  guarded  her  most  carefully  from 
evil,  teaching  her  to  "  shun  evils  as  sins 
against  God,"  and  guiding  her  little  feet 
into  the  way  of  righteousness  and  holiness: 
thus  bringing  joy  and  peace  to  Lulu's  heart. 

In  all  this,  she  was  greatly  helped  by  her 
Vegetarian  principles,  which  made  her  kind- 
er toward  dumb  animalsthan  most  children 
are  whom  flesh -eating  naturally  causes  to  be- 
come cruel  and  heartless.  She  had  ^e^■er 
been  ill  at  all  during  all  of  her  sweet  life. 
February,   1898 


d  by  Google 


IMPROVED  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  MILL 


We  have  received  the  following  note  from 
the  New  Macliine  Co.,  that  maiinracture  the 
Vegetariaii   S'y  Mill,  dated  Feb.  4th,   1898: 

"We  are  glad  to  know  that  you  were  pleased 
vrilh  the  last  three  which  we  sent  you  and 
thinktfaatyou  will  be  still  more  pleased  with 
tliese  as  we  have  made  some  changes  in  the 
pattern,  which  we  think  are  a  great  improve- 
ment." 

The  mills  have  arrived  and  we  find  tHe 
improvement  consists  in  the  hopper  being 
made  one  casting  with  the  body  of  the  mill  on 
^lich  it  stands,  improving  the  shape  so  as 
to  fecililate  the  feeding  of  the  mill.  The 
weight  of  the  mill  is  also  decreased  without 
impairing  its  strength. 

TESTIMONIALS. 

The  following  are  all  volnntary  testiidopials 
as  to  the  value  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill; 

Having  used  the  mill  I  have  no  hesitation  in 
saying  that  it  will  perfectly  meel  the  needs 
of  those  who  desire  pur^  food  supplies  of  their 
own  manufacture, — Mrs.  Ellen  Goodell  Smith 
in  the  Fat  of  the  Land  p.  52. 

I  have  received  the  mtU.  I  am  well  pleased 
with  it.  1  have  it  set  up  ata  friend's  honae 
who  is  using  it. — H.  J.  Marty,  Cleveland,  O. 

1  ordered  one  of  your  mills  in  Feb.  '97  and 
have  had  it  in  constant  use  in  my  family  ever 
since.  I  could  not  do  without  it.  I  find  the 
sieves  unnecessary,  and  lam  in  hearty  agree- 
ment with  yon  that  itia  conducive  to  health 
to  eat  bran  and  all  with  our  wheat.  We  are 
all  very  fond  of  pea-nut  butter  and  the  mill 
makes  it  to  perfection.  I  am  constantly  find- 
ing new  possibilities  in  the  mill. — Rev.  Elmer 
F.  Krause,  Leechburg,  Armstrong  Co.,  Pa. 

The  mill  is  here;  set  up  and  working  for 
higher  ethics  and  better  morals  among  all  my 
neighbors.  I  am  delighted  with  it,  for  though 
it  is  easy  enough  for  me  to  be  a  Vegetarian 
it  is  a  very  difficult  thing  for  most  people  be- 
cause whole  wheat  flour  spoils  by  dampness  so 
soon  and  few  people  can  tell  whether  they  are 
eating  food  or  mere  rubbish.  By  baking  pea- 
nuts very  brown  and  salting  well  !  can  grind 
them  into  paste  which    no  meat  eater  can  tell 


from  meat  by  look  or  taste. — Mrs.  N.E.Arnold, 
Daytona.  Florida. 

The  V.  S.  Mill  came  all  right.     The  mill  is 

strong  and  durable  and  will  do  all  you  claim 

for  it.  I  am  well  pleased  with  it. — E.  Treasure, 

WHAT  CAN  BE  DONE  WITH  IT. 

An  almost  endless  variety  of  health  foods 
can  be  made  with  this  mill.  The  following 
directions  for  some  of  the  products  will  be 
suggestive .  also  of  many  others  which  an  in- 
telligent experimenter  can  turn  out: 

No.  1.-  To  make  Lentil,  Peas  and  Buck- 
wheat flour,  simply  grind  the  fineness  desired. 

No.  2. — Whole  wheat  flour. — Grind  the  best, 
thoroughly  cleansed  wheat  obtainable  as  finely 
as  possible  and  sieve  out  the  bran. 

No.  3. — Wheateua. — This  excellent  food  for 
mnsh  is  made  by  grinding  the  wheat  as  for 
whole  wheat  flour  and  sieving  out  both  the 
fine  flour  and  the  coarsest  bran. 

No  4  — Glntin  flour. — Regrind  the  bran  ex- 
tracted from  the  whole  wheat  flour  (No.  2.)and 
Wheateua  {No.  3.)  and  sieve  out  the  light  bran, 
RECIPES. 

PromMn.  H.  S.CHibb. 

Graham  Bread. — Take  3  lbs.  fresh  Graham 
flour,  I  yeast  cxke,  I  tablespoon  sugar,  i  tea- 
spoon salt  and  sufficient  lukewarm,  water  and 
white  flour  to  form  a  stiffbatter.  Set  to  raise 
and  when  light  knead  the  whole  adding  a 
little  white  flour  to  prevent  it  sticking  to  the 
hands.  Raise  again  and  when  light,  knead 
into  loaves  and  raise  again.  When  light, 
place  in  the  oven  and  bake  one  hour.  If 
accustomed  to  baking  white  bread  you  can 
take  a  pt.  of  white  Mponge  and  add  Graham 
flour  to  it  and  make  brown  bread  by  fol- 
lowing above  recipe.  It  is  not  well  to  stir  up 
Graham  baiter  at  nightas  it  may  sour. 

Prom  MlHUlymnRlchardi,    13a  Autumn  St.,  Punic,  N.  J. 

Nut  food  Croquettes. — We  do  like  your  nut 
food  very  much.  Sometimes  we  form  it  into 
little  croquettes  whirling  it  in  egg  and  then  in 
cracker  crumbsor  granola  and  frying  in  nutcoa. 
— This  is  good  made  from  any  kind  of  nuts 
ground  in  this  mill. 

The  improved  Mill  is  sold  at  the  same  price 
ri/2.  $4.75.— V.  S.  A.  310  Chestnut  St.   Phila. 


d  by  Google 


J.  H.  FREEMAN. 


db,  Google 


F©©B.  fi©J5.B  ^^B  G-^^BB^. 


Vol.  II,  New  Series,  No.  15. 


MARCH,  1893, 


Wholb  Nomber  i 


J.  H.  FREEMAN  GOING  TO  THE  KLONDIKE. 


MR.  J.  H.  FREEMAN  who  has  for 
for  sometime  filled  the  position  of 
Guide  on  the  Island  of  Santa  Catali- 
na,  Avalon,  California,  was  born  in  Ross 
Connty,  Ohio,  in  1862,  He  has  developed 
s  fine  physique  by  his  Vegetarian  habits, 
fenning,  gardening,  and  travel  afoot  and 
awheel.  He  was  crop  correspondent  to  the 
State  Board  of  Agriculture  in  Ohio.  At- 
tending the  State  Fair  at  Columbus,  he 
obtained  a  first  premium  and  diploma  on 
County  display  of  firults  and  a  silver  medal 
for  the  best  collection  of  Ohio  woods.  He 
also  received  a  diploma  on  a  model  road 
bridge.  At  the  Ross  Co.  Fair  he  received 
ist  premium  for  the  largest  and  best  Display 
of  Vegetables  raised  by  one  exhibitor. 

He  has  been  traveling  from  state  to  state 
and  city  to  city  for  the  past  fifteen  years. 
When  he  becomes  dissatisfied  with  one 
place  he  removes  to  another. 

Mr.  Freeman  writes :  "  I  can  go  up  on  the 
hills  on  Catalena  Island  on  a  clear  day  and 
see  seven  different  islands.  I  came  to  Cat- 
alenain  June,  1896,  and  liked  it  so  well  I 
just  kept  on  staying."  Speaking  of  a  visit 
to  Saint  Nicholas  Island,  70  miles  away,  the 
party  "made  a  good  find  of  botanical  spec- 
imens and  Indian  relics,  a  botanist  in  the 
party  brought  away  an  hundred  specimens 
of  new  flowers. 

"  Madame  Blavatski,"  says  Mr.  Freeman, 
"says  that  these  islands  are  the  tops  of 
mountains  of  the  lost  Atlantis." 

Mr.  Freeman  also  speaks  of  "a  Society 
of  people  in   California  known  as  Fruitari- 


ans who  claim  to  eat  nothing  but  fruit.  I 
stopped  at  Summerlaud  near  Santa  Barbara 
which  is  the  headquarters  of  the  Spiritualist 
Society,  There  had  been  a  lecturer  there 
who  ate  only  olives  for  his  lunch."  We 
presume  this  was  Rev.  I.  B.  Rnmford,  au- 
thor of  Edenic  Diet,  who  iavored  us  with 
samples  of  his  dried  olives. 

He  wrote  he  had  travelled  in  Indiana, 
Missouri,  Kansas,  Nebraska,  Colerado, 
Utah,  and  California  and  the  state  of  Wash- 
ington, where  helivedseven  years,  and  was 
satisfied  that  Washington,  west  of  the  Cas- 
cade mountain  range,  taking  into  consider- 
ation climate,  soil  and  natural  advantages, 
is  the  garden  spot  of  the  U.  S.  for  a  Vege- 
tarian Colony.  Mr.  Freeman's  place  was 
1 2  miles  from  Seattle  where  on  five  acres  he 
raised  fruit  and  vegetables  continuously 
without  a  single  foilure  during  the  seven 
years  he  lived  there.  One  man  made  $1000 
from  one  '  acre  of  strawberries  during  the 
booming  of  Seattle.  Seattle  is  booming 
still  and  is  now  the  most  prominent  shipping 
point  in  the  North-west-  It  is  believed  that 
it  will  become  the  great  Western  metropolis 
of  America. 

The  Klondike  region  has  made  Seattle 
its  most  favorite  source  of  supplies  and  is 
the  best  located  for  parties  embarking  to  the 
gold  fields. 

Mr.  Freeman  has  left  his  belo\-ed  Cata- 
lena Island  and  is  now  preparing  to  migrate 
to  the  Klondike  Region.  By  a  letter  dated 
Seattle,  Jan  26th,  1898,  we  learn  that  he 
has  caught  the  gold  fever  and  intends  to  go 

35 


d  by  Google 


to  the  Klondike.  He  writes:  "I  do  not 
intend  to  take  one  pound  of  meat  of  any 
kind,  I  intend  to  take  foods  that  have  the 
most  carbon  in  to  produce  the  heat.  By 
not  using  meat  I  wont  have  to  take  any 
scurvy  cure  with  me,  which  is  advertised 
here  as  very  necessary  to  include  in  the  out- 
fit for  Alaska.  The  meat  eaters  argument 
is  completely  overthrown  by  the  fact  that 
vegetable  food  contains  in  the  aggregate  as 
much  carbon  as  animal.  Thus  roasted  Qesh 
contains  only  53  per  cent,  of  carbon,  while 
eggs  contain  53  and  bees'-wax  81.  The 
albumen  of  wheat  contains  55  per  cent,  and 
of  almonds  57,  of  carbon,  starch  contains  44 
percent,  and  the  amount  of  carbon  contain- 
ed in  four  pounds  of  starch  equals  that 
contained  in  thirteen  pounds  of  meat.  In- 
dian com  contains  a  great  amount  of  carbon. 
Abstract  the  water  from  N.  O.  Molasses  and 
the  remainder  is  carbon.  Molasses  and 
Indian  meal  furnish  a  good  winter  diet. 
MY  OUTFIT  .FOR  KLONDIKE. 
List  of  Food  for  One  Year. 


"  cayenne  pepper,  (term  ktller, 
"  mporkUi]  applea. 


"  traporaled  ouloot. 


I  Botlln  Jamaica  siagir. 
1  ql.  eraporaled  Vhiegar. 
irtroM  Matches. 


HeBTjrMacklDawSult. 


Rnbber  Kip  Boola. 
Heat)'  Lealhct  Shoe*. 

UoiquUo  aettlng. 
Sewing  and  Repair  Kit. 
HeaTf  Blanket. 
Anic  Dawn  Sleeping  Bag. 

Bled  and  Toola. 


' '  I  could  go  in  with  the  government  party 
but  I  am  not  ready  and  expect  to  go  the 
first  of  March.  I  go  in  over  the  ice  and  pull 
my  own  sled.  I  expect  I  will  find  the 
climate  quite  different  fi-om  that  of  Santa 
Catalina  Island,  Cal.  We  are  having  a 
very  open  winter  here  in  Seattle.  I  didn't 
mind  the  change  from  California  up  here. 
I  came  up  here  in  December.  I  have  con- 
verted four  to  quit  eating  meat  since  I'  came 
to  Seattle." 

We  have  given  these  particulars  as  they 
may  be  useful  to  others  who  desire  to  go  to 
the  new  Land  of  Gold.  We  trust  that  when 
our  Vegetarian  explorers  have  become  rich, 
they  will  contribute  liberally  in  support  of 
the  Vegetarian  cause. 


CURED  OF  SQUIRREL  HUNTING. 
Rev.  H.  D.  L.  Webster  of  Oak  Park, 
Chicago,  relates  that  one  day  while  pursu- 
ing his  favorite  pastime  he  wounded  a  young 
squirrel  which  fell  irom  the  top  of  a  tree  and 
caught  in  the  lower  branches.  As  it  hung 
there  by  its  fore  feet  it  uttered  most  piteous 
cries,  and  seemed  to  be  looking  directly  at 
him  with  reproachful  eyes.  So  human  and 
touching  were  its  look  and  appeals  that  it 
made  an  impression  on  him  to  last  his  life. 
March, 


d  by  Google 


^%^F0OP  HOMEv^^  GARDEN^ 


BOSTON  BRANCH  V.  S.  A. 
The  first  regular  meeting  of  tlie  Boston 
Branch  V.  S.  A.  was  held  at  aoo  Hunting- 
ton ave.  on  Sunday  Jan.  9th,  1898.  After 
adopting  a  Constitntion  and  By-laws  the 
following  officers  were  elected :  Leo  Wie- 
ner, President;  Wm.  D.  Brewer,  Jr.,  Sec- 
retary and  Treasurer.  It  was  voted  to  hold 
regular  meetings  at  same  place  on  the  second 
Sunday  of  each  month  at  3.30p.m.  An 
excellent  address  on  the  general  scope  of 
the  Vegetarian  movement  was  then  deliver- 
ed by  Mr.  Wiener,  who  is  a  Vegetarian  of 
eighteen  years  experience  both  in  Europe 
and  in  this  country,  and  instructor  in  Sla- 
vonic languages  at  Harvard, 

WESLEY'S  LATTER  DAY   GLORY. 
By  Marv  F.  Sklby. 

Food,  Homb  and  Garden  for  February 
came  yesterday  and  I  opened  it  immediately 
hoping  to  see  an  answer  to  Mrs.  Stafford's 
interesting  commuaication,  in  the  January 
number ,  but  I  failed  to  find  a  word  and  have 
decided  that  this  neglect  to  comply  with  the 
Editor's  request  means  that  all  the  readers 
of  your  paper  need  to  hear  something  irom 
me  once  more  about  what  we  are  to  expect 
from  the  new  dispensation  that  has  already 
dawned.  I  have  had  the  great  pleasure  this 
winter  of  reading  John  Wesley 's  sermons  on 
the  "New  Creation"  and  '"General  Deliv- 
erance" and  they  have  strengthened  my 
belief  in  the  complete  redemption  of  the 
earth  and  the  people,  with  all  creatures. 

Wesley  takes  for  his  text:  "Behold  I 
make  all  things  new,"  and  proves  to  my 
satisfection  from  the  Bible  that  the  whole 
groaning  creation  will  enter  into  the  glori- 
ous rest.  The  Scorpion's  sting,  the  adder's 
teeth,  and  the  lion's  claws  will  not  hurt  or 
grind  (^  tear,   so  that   I  think  we  may  all 


conclude  with  reason  that  tlie  old  hens  and 
chickens  will  have  no  taste  for  squirming 
bugs  and  kicking  spiders,  and  there  will  be 
no  poisonous  worms  on  the  grass  to  defile 
the  cows  or  spoil  the  milk,  when  the  curse 
is  frilly  lifted.  And  we  surely  believe  that 
there  will  come  a  day  when  there  will  be 
' '  no  more  curse. "  If  we  read  the  signs  of 
the  times  aright  we  see  that  the  day  has 
dawned.  Wesley  believed  that  he  saw  the 
beginning  of  "the  latter  day  glory,"  It 
cannot  be  very  long  before  we  can  eat  butto" 
and  honey  in  peace  as  the  Scriptures  teach, 
and  the  flocks  that  range  the  valleys  free 
we  will  not  condemn  to  slaughter,  because 
the  power  that  pities  and  loves  us  will  make 
us  pity  and  love  them  more  than  Goldsmith 
ever  dreamed  of  in  his  day.  Think  of  the 
nice  puddings  with  milk  and  eggs,  fruits 
and  grains,  cooked  by  electricity,  and  eaten 
in  co-operative  restaurants,  surrounded  by 
flowers  and  pictures  and  music  and  filled 
with  joy  while  we  go  in  companies  to  lec- 
tures and  libraries  and  galleries,  with  com- 
panions like  our  valued  friends:  Parker 
Pillsbury,  Dr.  Peebles,  Countess  Wacfat- 
meister,  Mrs.  Stafford,  the  feithfiil  editor  of 
Food  and  all  the  rest  of  us  small  and  great, 
whether  in  or  out  of  the  body.  What  a 
company !  How  my  whole  being  thrills 
with  the  thought  of  the  glory  to  be  revealed 
in  us. 

Many  are  prophesies  for  1898.  Let  us 
seek  for  the  wonderful  riches  of  our  inheri- 
tance with  all  the  earnestness  of  those  who 
are  seeking  for  gold  and  we  shall  catch  such 
glimpses  of  glory  before  another  year  comes 
in  that  the  nations  will  see  their  king  and 
confess  that  he  is  Lord  of  Lords,  as  well  as 
King  of  Kings.  All  sing  with  me  every 
morning  of  this  year : 

rraJK  God  Irom  wtiom  all  blee.«lc|i«  now. 

Yours  with  peace  and  joy  that  cannot  be 
expressed.— M.  F.  S.,  Richmond,  Ind. 

37 


d  by  Google 


BUTCHERING  DAY  NEVER  COMES. 
We  are  strict  Vegetarians.  Butchering 
day  never  draws  nigh.  Have  my  own  mill 
for  grinding  Graham.  Have  no  medicine 
in  the  house  and  no  use  for  a  Doctor. — ^J. 
W.  Dunmire,  Kappa,  Ills. 


THE  WEEK'S   BICYCLE    RACE. 

A  meat  eater  remarked  at  a  recent  dinner 
I  attended  that  at  the  one  week's  Bicycle 
Race  in  N.  Y.  the  final  winner  was  a  non- 
meat  eater. — Henry  P.  Porter,  136  Sheldon 
St.,  Providence,  R.  I.— Will  our  N.  Y. 
friends  put  us  in  commonication  with  the 
party  here  referred  to  as  the  final  winner? 


"A  GOOD  &  PERFECT  GIFT." 
The  following  beautiful  tribute,  the  result 
of  a  year  and  hairs  experiment  will  be  read 
with  great  interest:  "Sister  Hattie  and 
myself  have  been  strict  Vegetarians  for  a 
little  more  than  one  year  and  a  half  and  we 
think  there  cannot  be  enough  good  said 
for  the  cause.  I  believe  it  to  be  a  good  and 
perfect  gifi  coming  from  the  '  Father  of 
Lights.'  We  eat  no  flesh  nor  animal  prod- 
ucts, and  hope  to  continue  in  this  way 
while  life  lasts. ' ' — Fannie  Eberhard, 
Clarence  Center,  N.  Y. 


A  VEGETARIAN  AT  KLONDIKE- 
I  have  just  received  a  letter  from  a  fiiend 
who  went  to  the  Klondike  in  the  summer. 
He  withstood  all  the  hardships  of  the  trail 
and  passes  never  being  ill  a  day  and  up  to 
his  last  writing  had  not  tasted  flesh  in  any 
form.  He  means  to  prove  that  one  can 
live  even  in  that  country  on  natural  food. 
He  will  in  the  spring  give  me  a  flill  account 
of  his  diet  and  health  during  the  winter. 
I  will  be  pleased  tosubmit  the  letter  to  you 
should  it  prove  of  interest  and  I  think  it 
will  for  he  is  correspondent  of  the  N.  V. 
Times. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Swanton,  Minneapo- 
lis, Minn. 

38 


COLLEGE  OF  OCCULT  FORCES. 

There  are  rays  of  light  called  "Ultra 
Violet"  of  so  high  a  rate  of  vibration  that 
they  are  invisible  to  the  eye.  There  is  a 
range  of  tones  too  high  for  the  human  ear  to 
hear,  and  there  are  forces  at  woik  opon 
every  hnman  life  whose  effect  will  surely 
bring  happiness  or  misery,  success  or  M- 
ure,  but  whose  very  existence  is  denied  by 
many  men  who  are  called  scientific :  hence 
the  occult  forces. 

Because  these  Occult  forces  are  unseen 
and  silent  in  their  operation  it  does  not 
follow  that  they  can  safely  be  ignored.  In 
fact  an  understanding  of  them  adds  more 
of  happiness  and  power  to  life  than  any 
amount  of  intellectual  or  technical  know- 
ledge concerning  the  things  which  we  can 
see,  and  weigh,  and  measure. 

There  is  a  power  that  is  more  desirable 
than  the  possession  of  riches;  there  is  a 
happiness  greater  than  worldly  honors  can 
confer.  When  a  man's  true  life  work  is 
found  and  his  daily  labor  becomes  a  daily 
joy;  success  in  his  business  will  come  as  a 
matter  of  course ;  when  the  soul  power, 
which  lies  u|iused  and  dormant  is  quickened 
into  life,  the  true  secret  of  happiness  is  ouis. 

The  work  of  The  College  of  Occult  For- 
ces is  to  teach  practical  methods  of  develop- 
ing this  Soul  power  by  exercise  as  simple 
yet  just  as  certain  as  those  by  which  an 
athlete  develops  his  muscular  poweis. 
These  Occult  Forces  are  only  hidden  because 
the  Soul  Powers  are  not  sufficiently  quick- 
ened ;  when  the  awakening  takes  place  a 
whole  world  of  possibilities  rises  before  tbe 
aspiring  student.  Personal  magnetism  is 
only  a  name  for  a  power  which  any  one  n»y 
learn  how  to  exercise,  and  when  the  science 
of  Living ,  as  taught  by  the  College  of  Occult 
Forces  is  universally  adopted,  then  univer- 
sal health  and  a  joyous  life  will  be  enjoyed 
by  all.  Every  student  who  graduates 
March, 


d  by  Google 


^Bygai  HOME^^GARfewl 


becomes  a  Vegetanan  and  in  that  way 
alone  is  the  highest  attainment  possible, 
for  a  Vegetarian  diet  is  closely  related  to 
good  health  and  that  serenity  of  mind  which 
natural  living  brings.  Vegetarianism  is  the 
open  gateway  to  the  higher  life  but  it  is  only 
the  foundation  stone  which  makes  the  skil- 
M  and  eflFective  use  of  the  Occult  Forces  of 
Life  possible.  All  inquiries  regarding  the 
work  of  this  College  may  be  addressed  to 
theprincipal : — William  C.  Ferris,  Chicago. 

SUPER-COOKED     FOOD. 

Mr.  Trinder  of  London,  Eng.,  has  kindly 
sent  The  Echo  containing  Ellen  S.  Gaskell's 
article  on  "  When  and  What  to  Eat"  in 
which  the  subject  of  starch-digestion  is 
ably  discussed,  suggesting  that  the  secret 
of  starch  digestion  is  to  have  all  foods  in 
which  starch  predominates,  super-cooked. 
The  modem  necessity  for  this  is  thus  in- 
geniously accounted  for:  "In  the  days 
when  competition  was  less  severe,  when 
towns  were  smaller,  and  people  lived  more 
in  the  country,  with  less  pressure  round 
and  upon  them,  there  was  less  drain  of 
vital  force,  therefore  the  digestive  organs 
were  capable  of  a  greater  amount  of  work 
than  they  can  accomplish  at  the  present  day 
when  so  much  vital  force  is  necessarily 
»lrawn  away  from  the  physical  to  meet  the 
strain  upon  mental  and  nervous  powets. 
Therefore,  nowadays,  it  is  advisable  that 
half  the  work  of  digestion  should  be  done 
upon  the  food  before  it  is  consumed ;  other- 
wise the  strain  on  brain  and  nerves,  added 
to  the  strain  on  the  digestion,  must  inevi- 
tably cause  a  breakdown  affecting  all  three. ' ' 

The  writer  then  states  the  positions  of 
Dr.  Densmore  and  what  she  calls  the  Veg- 
etarian in  relation  to  farinacious  food, 
regarding  them  as  antagonistic.  Yet  she 
admits  that  both  are  true,  and  she  thus 
relates  her  obseri'ations  and  experience : 
1898 


Everywhere  one  sees  suffenng  in  the 
shape  of  colds,  and  all  the  diseases  which 
have  their  beginning  in  chills ;  my  ex 
perience,  and  that  of  others  known  to  me, 
goes  far  to  convince  me  that  all  these  are 
caused  wholly  by  the  starchiness  of  iieuffi- 
ciently  cooked  cereal  food.  Yet,  every- 
where, one  sees  also  that,  for  many  reasons, 
cereal  foods  cannot  be  done  away  with  at 
any  rate  for  some  time.  Having  some 
years  ago  realized  that  health  and  disease 
are  equally  the  result  of  foods,  and  being 
determined  to  recover  health,  I  began  to 
study  the  different  theories  of  diet  as  I  came 
to  hear  of  them ;  and  I  have  experimented 
on  myself,  closely  watching  effects.  I  be- 
gan to  revive  upon  giving  np  meat.  Still 
I  continued  to  have  the  old-^hioned  io- 
fiuenza  colds  that  have  so  constantly  trou- 
bled me.  I  then  gave  Up  all  cooked  food, 
and  adopted  entirely  a  nut  and  fruit  diet. 
This  suited  me  in  many  ways,  but  I  found 
I  often  had  a  desire  for  bread  or  other  cereal 
food,  and  I  also  found  that  it  was  a  diet 
much  too  expensive  and  inconvenient  under 
present  conditions.  I  was,  therefore,  com- 
pelled to  return  to  cooked  cereals,  with  an 
immediate  recurrence  ofthecolds.  " 

The  writer  then  refers  to  Dr.  J.  H.  Kell- 
ogg's  contention  "that  all  cereals  should 
be  cooked  from  three  and  a-half  to  four 
hours.  This  transforms  the  starch  into 
dextrine  and  soluble  starch,  so  that  it  di- 
gests as  easily  as  the  sweet  fruits."  and 
remarks  1  ' '  Here,  then  I  thought,  is  a  theory 
that  may  become  the  reconciler  between  the 
two  opposing  ones  of  cereal  and  anti-cereal, 
and  I  felt  eager  to  test  the  truth  of  the  as- 
sertion upon  myself.  I  began  experiment- 
ing by  taking  a  plentiful  diet  of  cereal  food 
cooked  for  four  horns.  I  had  no  cold  that 
autumn,  though  I  had  never  before  passed 
a  November  without  one ;  and  I  have  had 
nocold  while  so  living-  " 

39 


d  by  Google 


Food,  Home  and  Qarden. 

All    commuDtcaKoBi   for   Ih 

F,  FMIidcIphla. 

REV.    HKNRY  S 

CLUBB.  Edilor. 

One  SDbKTlptloii.  ^cU.,  foBrSubsniptlofla   |t.do  ■  mr. 

11  InKnloatti.oo.    For  iiliaet  i  laitrtloa  «i.o«. 
Par  iiloteriloatSt:   Pfrptge,  baUe,$is,ovttUt, 

An  old  sea  captain  says  the  only  snre 
preventive  of  sea-siclutess  is  carefol  dieting. 

A  family  of  live  persons  were  poisoned  in 
Paris  by  eating  fresh  Crawfish  that  had  fed 
on  decayed  matter. 

Dr.  Maiy  E.  Greeq  claims  that  domestics 
who  do  the  cooking  should  receive  a 
thoroogh  scientific  education  as  mnch  as  the 


Orders   are  coming  in    for  ii  already  from 
those  who  have  tried  it. 

A  writer  in  a  St.  Pant  paper  argttes  that 
as  all  animals  mnst  die  their  slaughter  for 
food  consequently  does  not  inflict  upon  them 
a  fate  they  woold  otherwise  escape.  How 
would  this  writer  like  to  have  this  principle 
applied  to  himself  ?  This  argument  would 
justify  all  kinds  of  cannibalism. 

The  best  cooks  commenced  by  trying  to 
ose  nut  food  to  imitate  the  flavor  of  various 
kinds  of  flesh:  chicken,  mutton,  beefeteak 
ftc.  but  they  found  that  far  better  flavois 
than  these  have  been  obtained  and  nut  food 
is  now  regarded  as  presenting  the  finest  op- 
portunity for  displaying  the  highest  gas- 
tronomic art. 


Miss  Lilyan  Richards  to  whom  we  sent 
some  nut  food  produced  on  the  Vegetarian 
Society  Mill  writes  that  she  used  some  of  it 
in  making  croquettes  and  they  were  per- 
fectly delicious. 


Dr.  H.  S.Chase  died  at  St.  Lonis,  Mo., 
Tuesday,  Jan  4th,  1&98.  We  wrote  his 
widow  to  obtain  portrait  &c.  but  received 
no  reply.  The  Doctor  lived  to  the  age  of 
78  and  his  life  was  one  of  self-sacrificing 
devotion  to  the  good  of  others. 


Mr.  Freeman  and  other  Vegetarians  are 
preparing  to  go  to  the  Klondike  region. 
One  Vegetarian  has  already  gone  through 
all  the  hardships  without  a  day's  sickness 
and  is  still  writing  for  the  N.  Y.  Timet 
from  the  land  of  gold. 

Mr.  Baldoser  in  this  city  has  a  Vegetarian 
Society  Mill.  He  is  making  experiments 
with  grinding  various  kinds  of  nuts  and  has 
succeeded  in  producing  a  very  nice  article 
which  be  intends  to  put  on  the   market. 


We  call  attention  to  the  advertisemeot  of 
Messes  Farwell  &  Rhines,  Watertown, N.  Y. 
of  their  Diabetic  Flour.  We  have  tried 
it  and  find  it  makes  an  excellent  tvown 
bread  and  have  no  doubt  its  general  nse 
would  do  much  to  [^omote  the  general 
health  and  freedom  from  diabetic  troubles- 
Give  it  a  trial ! 


The  manufacturer  informs  ns  that  helus 
improved  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  in 
several  particulars  and  the  mills  he  is  noR 
sending  us  are  the  improved  pattern.  Fe<^ 
pie  often  write  us  about  mills  advertised  by 
others.  We  do  not  know  anything  about 
them  and  can  only  guarantee  those  supplied 
by  us.  We  will  furnish  printed  infomiation 
on  application. 

The  Bos/on  Herald,  N.  Y.  Htraii  and 
other  newspapers  report  that  a  Baltimore 
inventor  has  discovered  a  process  of  making 
butter  direct  from  the  vegetables  that  con- ' 
stitute  the  usual  food  of  cattle.  That  Elec- 
tricity is  tlie  force  employed  and  the  lesuJl* 
are  quite  satisfactory.  The  influence  of 
the  electric  light  in  this  process  is  qi"'* 
March, 


d  by  Google 


ioolBoiH^DEl 


Temarkable.     Thus  VegetarUnism  is  being 
promoted  by  tbe  discoveries  of  science. 


ARKANSAS  FOR  FRUIT  GROWERS. 
Mt.Wm.  G.  Whipple  Registrar  of  the  land 
office  Little  Rock,  Ark.  informs  as  that  he 
has  now  637,675  acres  of  excellent  fertile 
land  in  Arkansas  open  to  homestead  set- 
tlers. It  is  distributed  over  41  counties. 
Much  of  it  is  adapted  to  raising  apples, 
grapes  and  small  fruits.  Its  proximity  to 
good  markets  makes  this  land  very  desira- 
ble to  settlers. 


SUPER-COOKED  OR  UNCOOKED  ? 

The  idea  of  super-cooked  food  as  ad- 
vanced by  Dr.  J,  H.  Kellogg  and  recom- 
mended by  Mrs.  Gaskell  does  not  agree  with 
the  doctrine  advanced  by  Thomas  Tyron 
that  cooking  food  destroys  its  vitality.  Mr. 
H.  Alden  Spencer,  50  E.  9th  St.,  N.  Y. 
maintains  that  wheat  uncooked  is  the  ideal 
food  and  he  intends  to  make  the  journey 
round  the  world  on  that  diet.  He  says  a 
man  living  on  wheat  alone  can  enjoy  life 
and  spend  only  $10.00  a  year  for  food. 

HOW  TO  BREAK  WHEAT  CORNER. 
Mr.  C.  Wood  Davis  attributes  the  low 
price  of  maize  in  comparison  with  that  of 
wheat  to  the  substitution  of  lard  made  from 
cottonseed  oil  for  the  product  of  the  hog, 
and  the  use  of  cottonseed  meal  for  cattle 
feed.  The  high  price  of  wheat,  caused  by 
the  comer  of  Chicago  speculators,  may  be 
advantageously  of^t  by  a  more  general  use 
of  com  meal  for  food  among  the  American 
people.  Mr.  D.  calculates  that  the  product 
of  nearly  10,000,000  acres  of  maize  has  been 
dispensed  with  by  the  utilization  of  the 
cottonseed. 


HELEN  OF  TROY  REINCARNATED. 
Paul  Tyner  in  his  paper  on    "  Reincarna- 
tion, "  in  TAe  TempU  for  Dec.,  1897,  relates- 
that  Dr.  Henry  Schliemann  married  a  beau- 


tiful Greek  girl  whom  he  recognized  as  a 
reincaraation  of  Helen  of  Troy  whom  he 
had  loved  and  lost  three  thousand  years 
before.  That  they  remembered  through 
love's  recognition.  Dr.  Schlieman's  success 
in  explorations  on  the  site  of  ancient  Troy 
was  attributed  to  his  memory  of  his  former 
incarnation.  The  idea  of  marrying  after 
three  thousand  years  from  first  acquaintance 
should  encourage  unsuccessful  lovers  to 
persevere. 

SEND  NAMES. 
I  send  my  Food,  Home  &  Garden  after 
I  read  it  to  some  of  my  friends.  "Line 
upon  line,  precept  upon  precept,  here  a 
little  and  there  a  little,"  They  may  be 
helping  some  weary  soul  to  a  better  way  of 
living.  It  is  a  great  deal  to  know  that  it 
is  not  absolutely  necessary  to  eat  meat. 
Some  of  us  have  thought  for  a  long  time 
that  it  was.— Mrs.  C.  F,  T.,  Central  Falls. 
R.  I. — If  our  friends  would  all  send  us  the 
names  and  addresses  of  those  they  desire 
to  influence  in  this  direction  we  would 
gladly  send  sample  copies  of  them  so  they 
can  keep  their  own. 


VEGETARIANISM  A  NECESSITY. 
Prof  Wiener  of  Harvard  in  his  inaugural 
address  as  president  of  the  Boston  Vegetari- 
an Society  treated  the  subject  from  the 
different  standpoints  of  health  &c.  but 
rested  mainly  on  the  position  that  increase 
of  population,  in  accordance  with  the  Mal- 
thusian  doctrine,  will  inevitably  force  Veg- 
etarianism on  the  inhabitants  of  this  planet 
whether  they  like  the  diet  or  not.  It  is  true 
flesh  meat  must  eventually  be  abandoned, 
but  the  period  when  it  must  is  remote  and 
cannot  be  depended  on  for  many  genera- 
tions. The  benefits  of  such  abandonment 
are  however  too  numerous  to  be  dispensed 
with  by  intelligent  people  of  the  present 
period. 

.     41 


d  by  Google 


GREEN    AND   WHITE     LUNCHEON 
FOR  17TH  OF  MARCH. 

roUto  and  Panley  Balli  Nul  Croqaette*. 

Sptaach 

CclcTT  Rice  ud    Pcu  Salad  BprtDi  ODiont 

01  Un 

Whole   wheat    Bread 

Candcd    Giceo     Gaget  PMachIo  Ice    Crcani 

Silver     Laj-M-    Cake 

Kaelpp    Coffee 

TaUe     Deconlkni;    Anparasiu     Fen    and    Whtlc  RoMa 

RECIPES. 

Rice  &  Peas  Salad. — i  cup  rice,  i}4  cups 
boiling  water;  boil  rapidly  in  a  small 
tightly  coveted  saucepan  until  done.  Sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Drain 
the  liquor  &om  a  can  of  peas,  rinse  in  cold 
water,  put  on  to  heat  with  i  tablespoonfiil 
butter,  salt,  pepper  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Arrange  a  portion  of  the  rice  on  lettuce 
leaves,  make  a  slight  depression  in  centre, 
into  which  pile  a  portion  of  the  peas. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 

Pistachio  Ice  Cream.— ^  lb.  of  pistach- 
ios, X  lb,  Jordan  almonds,  i  teaspoon 
extract  of  almond,  i  pt.  cream,  ^  lb.  of 
sugar,  spinach  coloring.  Blanch  and  chop 
the  nuts  very  fine,  pound  them  in  a  mortar, 
or  simply  grind  them  in  a  mill,  adding 
gradually  the  almond  extract.  Mix  the 
sugar  and  cream  together,  add  the  nuts  and 
sufficient  spinach  coloring  to  make  a  pale 
green,  and  freeze. 

From  Alice  B.  Stockbara,  M,  D. 

Nut  Salad. — i  cup  English  walnuts,  2 
cups  apples,  i  cup  celery.  Chop  separately, 
mix  and  serve  on  a  leaf  of  lettuce  with  salad 
dressing. 

Nut  Croquettes.— Two  cups  chopped 
hickory  nuts  or  English  walnuts,  2  eggs, 
well  beaten,  2  cups  bread  crubs,  i  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  tablespoons  butter.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage.  Make  in 
oval  cakes  and   fry    in  butter.     The  same 


recipe  may  be  made  in  a  loaf  and  baked  in 
oven. — Nuts  for  croquettes  are  best  ground. 

The  foundation  of  a  happy  home  is  laid 
in  the  kitchen. — Marion  Harland. 

EDIBLE  FUNGI. 

Miss  Mary  Middleton  in  sending  extracts 
in  regard  to  the  Mushroom  writes:  "I 
have  long  considered  the  common  mush- 
room {Agaricus  Campeslris)  valuable  food 
for  Vegetarians  and  last  fall  added  to 
my  bill  of  fere  "  puflF balls"  and  four  varie- 
ties of  toadstools  which  proved  very  delic- 
ious. All  readers  of  Food,  Home  *  Gar- 
den should  at  least  know  and  enjoy  the 
common  field  mushroom  which  was  quite 
abundant  in  the  vicinity  of  Philadelphia 
last  year. ' ' 

LEMON  VERBENA  BEVERAGE. 

The  lemon  verbena  is  cited  in  a  para- 
agraph  from  Vicks'  Magazine  in  a  recent 
number  of  your  paper,  merely  as  a  fragrant 
leaved  plant.  It  has  however,  economic 
uses  better  known  to  Latin  nations  (Portu- 
gal. Spain,  Southern  France)  than  to  North- 
em  countries;  to  wit:  domestic  lemonade 
can  be  cheaply  prepared  by  steeping  mature 
(yet  fresh)  leaves  picked  irora  a  strong  plant 
of  Verbena  Triphylla  in  hot  water.  Cover 
the  vessel,  let  cool,  for  improvement  add 
concentrated  orange  juice  shortly  before 
serving,  stir  well  to  blend,  sweeten  to  taste. 
A  palatable  beverage.  A  few  vigorous 
plants  costing  about  20  cts.  each  might  be 
had  the  year  round,  serving  in  rotation. 
Those  resting,  if  well  cared  for,  by  manur- 
ing suitably,  will  soon  recuperate  for  further 
picking.  When  lemons,  limes  or  oranges 
are  out  of  season  or  high  priced  the  lemon 
scented  verbena  is  an  acceptable  substitute. 
— R.  Hecker. 

March, 


d  by  Google 


CONVENIENCE  OF  SUPER-COOKING. 

By  Mrs.  Ellen  S.  Gaskbll. 

Many  people  think  that  cooking  for  so 
long  a  time  most  entail  much  more  work, 
but  it  is  not  so.     Cooking  for  several  honrs 


have  good,  wholesome,  and  delicious  food 
and  yet  not  have  to  pin  my  thought  to  food 
continually ;  to  be  so  free  as  to  have  a  ful- 
ness of  mental  life  and  association  with 
others,  I  call  this  good  results. 

I  often    think  how  easy   it  would  make 


the  food  being  placed  in  covered     ^'f«  ^°^  "^^y  ""}<>  »« ^low  overwhelmed  mth 


vessels,  and  subjected  to  the  heat  of  boiling 
water  orsteam.  I  use  a  "Yankee  Idea," 
four-decked  cooker.  All  pulses,  and  most 
vegetables,  I  End  are  best  cooked  in  very 
little  water  in  covered  vessels  in  the  oven, 
a  dry  heat  bringing  out  their  flavour  much 
better  than  a  moist  heat.  All  cereals  and 
potatoes  are  best  cooked  in  a  moist  heat. 
When  rice  has  been  steamed  with  milk  for 
four  hows  it  requires  no  sugar  as  the  long 
cooking  has  sweetened  it,  and  this  is  in  ac- 
cordance with  Dr.  Kellogg's  theory.  Beet 
and  parsnips  when  washed  and  baked  whole 
in  their  skins  are  greatly  superior  to  when 
boiled  or  steamed.  Cauliflower,  marrow, 
&c.,  when  slowly  cooked,  with  little  water, 
in  the  oven,  have  a  much  richer  flavour 
than  when  boiled,  and  require  no  addition- 
al salt  as  their  soluable  salts  are  retained. 

Now  one  great  advantage  of  super-cook- 
ing is  that  all  things  so  cooked  keep  good 
for  a  much  longer  period  than  when  ordi- 
narily cooked,   and  keep    their  special  fla- 


needless  work  if  this  new  method  of  cooking 
and  dieting  were  generally  adopted,  private- 
ly at  first,  until  people  arrived  at  one  meal 
a  day  as  voluntarily  as  we  did,  and  then 
have  restaurants  to  supply  this  one  meal. 
There  would  then  be  no  need  of  kitchens 
and  cooking  in  private  houses. — The  Echa. 
EAT  FRUIT. 

To  retain  and  even  acquire  a  good  com- 
plexion eat  plentifully  of  frnit.  This  is 
better  than  any  outward  applications.  All 
fruit  is  good  when  in  season ,  but  the  best  of 
all  are  those  in  season  at  the  present  mo* 
ment,  as  apples  and  oranges  etc. 

PEANUT    INDUSTRY. 

The  first  peanut  oil  factory  in  the  United 
States  will  soon  be  established  at  Norfolk, 
Va.,  with  a  capital  stock  of  $60,000.  The 
company  has  issued  a  prospectus  in  which 
they  calculate  that  the  receipts  from  five 
tons  of  peanuts  will  amount  to  225  gallons 
of  refined  oil,  at  50  cts.  per  gallon;  3,680 
lbs.  of  flour,  at  2  cts.  per  lb.  and  3,680  lbs. 
of  meal,  for  stock  feed,  at  60  cts.  per  hun- 


vour.      I  rarely  have  a  coal  fire  more  than     died,   which  will  make  the  gross  receipts 


twice  a  week,  each  time  cooking  sufficient 
for  the  following  intervening  days.  At 
present  I  make  bread  once  a  week.  In  this 
way  on  five  days  in  the  week  all  I  have  to 
do  is  just  to  heat  something  in  frying-pan 
or  saucepan,  or  in  basins  in  the  cooker  over 
an  oil  stove. 

I  call  it    good    results  to  attain  to  such 
health  and  intensity  of  vitality  as  I  am  now 


$415.90  per  day.  It  is  estimated  that  this 
will  give  a  yearly  profit  on  a  five-ton  fac- 
tory at  $19,725.  Peanut  flour  can  be  used 
for  making  bread,  cakes,  biscuits,  etc.  and 
is  one  of  the  favorite  articles  of  food  in  the 
hospitals  of  Germany,  according  to  the  re- 
port of  one  of  our  consuls. — New  Ideas. 
Peanut  Soap, 
It  is  said  that  much  of  the  imported  castile 


enjoying  after  years  of  vain  struggling  for  soap   is  made  of  the  oil  obtained  from  Afri- 

recovery  of  health  by  means  of  drugs.     To  can   peanuts.     It  is  now  proposed  to  make 

keep  my  own  house  in  order  and  yet  not  be  the  soap  in  America  from  the  oil  of  Virginia 

a   slave   to    it  all  day,  and  every  day  ;     to  peanuts. 

1898  43 


d  by  Google 


THE    INFLUENCE   OF    FOOD   UPON 
CHARACTER. 

ByT.  R.  Allinson,  M.  D. 

Naturalists  know  that  if  the  pupa  of  the 
ordinary  bee  is  fed  on  Queen  Bread  it  de- 
velopes  into  a  queen  bee  and  not  into  an 
ordinary  bee.  Observant  people  also  know 
that  when  their  household  dogs  are  fed  on 
meat  they  are  more  vicious  and  uncertain 
tempered  than  when  fed  on  non-flesh  food. 

Believing  as  I  do  that  man  is  &ugivorous 
by  nature,  then  it  follows,  if  such  a  belief  be 
correct,  that  man  will  only  attain  his  high- 
est development  of  mind  and  body  when  he 
confines  his  diet  to  that  obtained  from  the 
vegetable  kingdom.  In  the  British  Isles 
we  have,  roughly  speaking,  three  nationali- 
ties. The  Scotchman  is  the  tallest  and 
heaviest ;  the  Englishman  is  second  in 
weight  but  third  in  height ;  whilst  the  Irish- 
man is  second  in  height  but  the  lightest  in 
weight.  The  Scotchman  is  learned  as 
a  rule,  and  fond  of  an  argument.  The 
Englishman  is  reserved,  and  inclined  to  be 
choleric ;  whilst  the  Irishman  is  credited 
with  being  a  jovial  and  light  hearted  indi- 
vidual. We  know  that  Sandy  feeds  much 
on  oatmeal ;  John  Bull  eats  largely  of  flesh  ; 
and  Pat  mostly  eats  potatoes.  If  a  fairly 
healthy  child  be  fed  upon  proper  foods,  at 
proper  intervals  and  not  given  too  much,  he 
should  grow  up  to  be  about  five  ft.  eight  in. 
high  and  weigh  between  140  and  154  lbs. 
At  25  he  should  have  all  his  teeth  in  his 
jaws,  be  sound  in  wind  and  limb,  have  all 
his  senses  in  good  working  order.  To  at- 
tain a  perfect  bony  structure  the  young 
must  be  fed  oatmeal,  wholemeal,  barley 
meal,  niaize,  or  some  other  farinaceous  flour. 
If  the  husk  or  protecting  part  of  the  grain 
be  removed  then  the  food  is  not  rich  in  bone- 
forming  material.  Children  brought  up  on 
white  bread  and  given  the  starchy  product 


of  the  gmins  do  not  get  enough   nutriment 
for  their  bones. 

When  a  child  is  fed  on  foods  which  con- 
tain all  the  nntriment  required  by  the  various 
organs,  it  will  be  in  good  condition  and  able 
to  see  the  relation  oi  itself  to  its  surroond- 
ings.  Its  blood  being  pure  and  containing 
the  right  constituents  will  nourish  the  brain 
and  the  child  will  learn  its  school  lessons 
properly,  and  will  also  take  iu  qnickly  the 
lessons  to  be  learnt  from  all  nature  around 
it.  But  when  a  child  is  improperly  fed, 
much  of  its  energy  is  wasted  in  digesting, 
absorbing,  and  destroying  the  wrong  foods 
taken.  This  will  result  in  the  child  being 
slow  at  learning.  The  properly  fed  child 
is  full  of  life,  fun,  and  mischief,  and  when 
its  life  is  properly  guided  will  grow  up  an 
intelligent  citizen  and  a  humane  person, 
considering  the  rights  of  others  as  well  as 
his  own .  He  will  enjoy  himself  in  a  ration- 
al manner  and  not  interfere  with  the  enjoy- 
ment of  others.  But  the  badly  and 
improperly  fed  person  will  become  peevish, 
selfish  and  exacting.  He  is  the  only  person 
to  be  considered,  and  he  tries  to  get  every- 
thing for  himself. 

Those  who  have  experimented  with  a  non- 
flesh  diet  have  found  the  brain  becoming 
clearer,  the  ability  to  study  increased,  the 
spirits  brighter,  and  the  temper  milder  and 
more  under  control.  The  sleep  re&eshes 
more.  The  influence  of  tea  and  coffee  is  to 
excite  the  brain,  cause  us  to  bnild  castles 
which  are  very  real  at  the  time,  but  when 
the  action  of  the  nervine  irritant  has  passed 
off  these  castles  are  found  to  be  castles  in 
the  air  indeed.  Flesh  meat  of  any  kind 
makes  the  eater  acquisitive  and  regardless  of 
the  rights  of  others.  But  a  man  who  lives 
on  a  non-flesh  diet  will  have  a  clear  brain 
in  a  healthy  body.  He  will  work  enough 
to  produce  food  for  himself  and  his  family. 
— 4  Spanish  place,  London,  W.  Eng. 
March, 


d  by  Google 


f 


RDEN 


THE  VEGETARIAN'S  DELIGHT  CABBAGE. 
Bv  Theo.  Koss 

I  promised  the  leaders  of 
F.  H.  &  G.  a  few  moaths 
ago,  to  give  a  full  descrip- 
tion and  illustratioQ  of  my 
new  Cabbage — ^The  Vegeta- 
tian's  Delight.  In  keeping 
my  promise  I  will  at  the 
same  time  add  general  in- 
stmctions  for  the  cultivation 
of  the  same. 

It  is  with  pleasure  that  I 
offer  this  new  late  Cabbage 
to  the  public,  for  I  am  posi- 
tive ail  will    be    delighted 
with  it,  especially  my  Veg- 
etarian friends.     It  makes  a  very  hardhead         The  seed  of    the    Vegetarian's   Delight 
of  good  size  and  extraordinary  weight  and     Cabbage  should  be  sown  in  the  open  ground 
is  remarkable  for  its  keeping  qualities  when     in  May,  in  this  latitude,  or  as  soon  as  the 
buried  over  winter.  soil  is  warm  enough  and  in  condition  to 

It  is  a  grand  sort  for  gardeners  for  spring     receive  same — taking  care  not  to  leave  the 
sales  after  all  other  kinds  are  gone,  when  it     plants  stand  too  closely,  as  this  makes  them 


will  command  a  high  price,  owing  to  its 
dark  green  color,  size  and  quality.  The 
Vegetarian's  Delight  Cabbage  will  certainly 
prove  to  be  the   most  profitable  variety  of 


spindling.  "  When  five  to  six  inches 
high,  transplant  in  rows  two  feet  apart  one 
way  and  about  eighteen  inches  the  other, 
burying  the   first   leaf.     Hoe  every  week, 


cabbage  to  grow,  for  the  private  garden  as  drawing  the  earth  up  about  the  plants  until 

well  as  for  market.  they  begin  to  head,  then  give  thorough  and 

There  is  no  vegetable  which  shows  more  final  cultivation  and  leave  same  to  nature, 
plainly  the  difference  in  character  and  qual-         If  you  wish  to  preserve  them  for  the  win- 

ity  than  the  cabbage.     The   requisites  for  ter  use,  pull  out  when  dry  as  possible  and 

complete  success  are :  First,  good  seed;  there  invert  the  heads  to  drain  for  several   horns 

is  no  vegetable  where  the  seed  has  more  in-  before  burying  them. 

fluence  on  the  quality  of  the  product  than         One  ounce  of  seed  will   produce    1,500 

this,  and  planters  should  invariably  select  plants;  }^  lb.  in  beds  to  transplant,   for  an 

the  best  procurable.     Second,    rich,   well  acre.     The  publisher    of  F.  H.  &  G.   will 

prepared    ground.      Third,     frequent    and  offer  the  seed  of  the  Vegetarian's  Delight 

thoTongh  cultivation.     A  heavy,  moist  and  Cabbage  as  a  premium,  it  can  also  be  had 

rich  loam  is  most  suitable,  which  should  be  direct  from  me  at  10  c.  per  packet,   ounce 

ii"ell  fertilized  and  worked  deep.  25  c.    ]^  lb.  75  c.   lb.  $2.50. 

1898  45 


d  by  Google 


MONEY  FROM  SUNFLOWERS 

A  Long  Island  farmer,  who  had  more  laad 
than  he  knew  what  to  do  with,  has  put  for- 
ty acres  into  sunflower  cultivation.  A  fine 
table  oil,  worth  $i  .25  a  gallon,  is  made  from 
the  sunflower  seeils  which  yield  two  and  a 
half  gallons  of  oil  to  the  bushel.  The  esti- 
mated yield  of  100  bushels  of  seed  to  the 
acre  should  give  a  handsome  profit  on  the 
oil. — St.  Louis  Globe-Democrat. 
CHESTNUT  CULTURE. 

Mr.  Frank  M.  Bartram,  of  the  Parry 
Nurseries,  of  Party,  N.  J.  recommends  the 
purchase  of  land  on  which  chestnut  stumps 
are  abundant  as  the  suckers  growing  from 
the  sttunps  form  excellent  stocks  on  which 
to  graft  any  of  the  improved  varieties  of 
chestnuts.  Such  land  is  common  in  Penn- 
sylvania, and  can  be  had  at  low  figures. 

Chestnuts  form  a  profitable  crop.  One 
man  made  more  from  one  tree  than  from  the 
ten  acres  of  wheat  on  which  the  tree  stood. 

The  care  and  culture  of  chestnut  trees  af- 
ter they  b^n  to  bear  is  very  inexpensive. 

A  MOSS  FERTILIZER. 
Sphagnum  (moss)  by  its  tendency  to  im- 
poverish the  soil  immediately  beneath, 
might  yet  serve  as  an  absorbent  and  a  tamer 
of  wild  earth,  a  drainer  of  land  requiring 
drying.  Many  acres  are  so  located  that 
there  is  no  readily  practicable  outlet.  If 
this  moss,  wherever  easily  got,  were  to  be 
dug  into  trenches  (blind  ditches)  at  intervals 
of  space  dictated  by  circumstances,  the  re- 
lieving process  may  obtain.  The  experi- 
ment should  be  made  when  low  lands  (bogs) 
are  most  accessible.  Or,  sphagnum  might 
be  treated  with  the  &mous  lime  and  salt 
mixture  (Mapes's  notion)  and  so  fitted  for  a 
desirable  fertilizer  (a  progressed  primary-) 
for  top  dressing  «c.  Sphagnum  has  been 
highly  recommended  for  bedding  horse  sta- 
bles, being  wholesome  to  equine's  feet ;  de- 
odorizing, and  so  preventing  the  fly  nuisance. 

46 


Will  some  of  you  subscribers  report  there- 
on in  all  or  any  of  the  aspects  above  stated? 
— R.  Hecker. 

APIOS  TUBEROSA. 

Sylvester  Baxter,  in  Garden  and  Forest: 
This  beautiful  wild  plant,  clambering  o^-a 
the  wayside  shubbery  in  many  parts  of  niral 
New  England,  with  its  luxuriant  habit  and 
the  exquisite  scent  of  its  chocolate-colored 
flowei3,  is  familiar  to  all  who  know  the 
country.  But  its  curious  tubers,  strung 
along  the  umdergronnd  shoots  like  beads 
on  a  string,  are  not  so  commonly  known.  1 
dug  up  a  few  they  were  about  the  size  of 
small  seckel  pears,  I  baked  them  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  and  found  them  delicioos. 
When  done  they  were  mealy  and  creamy 
white  in  color.  Their  flavor  was  strikingly 
delicate ;  something  between  that  of  a  vei>- 
fine  potato  and  a  sweet  potato,  with  a  sng- 
gestion  of  the  chestnut,  also. — In  Grafs  1 
Botany  the  Apioe  is  called  a  Ground-nut.  1 
CUTTING  HAY  ON  ICE.  I 

In  the  course  of  some  litigation  at  Mil- 
waukee, concerning  the  drainage  of  Mns- 
kego  Lake,  in  southeastern  Wisconsin  an  in- 
teresting fact  was  brought  out.  It  appeals 
that  the  farmers  living  around  the  lake  have 
been  deriving  a  neat  revenue  each  winter 
fi\3m  the  lake  by  harvesting  hay  on  the  ice.  i 

The  shallowness  of  the  water  in  the  lake  1 
bed  causes  the  grass  growing  on  the  bottom 
to  project  considerably  above  the  surface  I 
and  when  the  ice  forms,  the  hay  can  be  cut  1 
with  great  ease,  though  it  cannot  be  gotten  I 
at  the  rest  of  the  year,  on  account  of  the  , 
boggy  nature  of  the  lake  bottom.  j 

One  of  the  witnesses,  James  Malfa,  tesli-  | 
fied  that  he  could  cut  the  hay  on  the  frozen  I 
lake,  before  the  drainage  destroyed  it,  as  , 
though  he  was  working  on  an  ordinary  hay  | 
field.  The  hay  was  sold  to  Milwaukee 
merchants  for  shipping  purposes. — Theo. 
Koss,  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

March,  ' 


d  by  Google 


PUfps 


[FOOD  HONE^CiRDEl 


SWISS  VEGETARIAN  SETTLEMENT. 
Miss  C.  Kofel  writing  from  Heimgarten, 
Zurich,  Switzerland,  Jan.  i6,  1898:  'T 
know  you  have  always  taken  great  interest 
in  the  doings  at  Heimgarten  (Home-Gar- 
den). It  was  a  very  busy  year  for  me,  as 
I  did  the  greater  part  of  the  work  in  my  lot 
myself.  In  the  spring  I  planted  over  1000 
berry  bnshea,  cut  and  pruned  the  little  trees, 
nearly  300  of  them.  Then  I  sowed  aud 
planted  peas,  beans,  potatoes,  cabbage, 
cauliflower,  tomatoes  etc.  I  also  had  some 
very  pretty  flowers.  Everything  grew  nice- 
ly, I  had  some  splendid  strawberries,  also 
quantities  of  gooseberries  and  red  currants. 
What  grew  best  of  all,  however,  and  gave 
me  most  to  do,  were  the  weeds.  I  took 
most  care  of  the  trees,  gathering  off  the 
caterpillars  and  other  noxious  insects. 
Doring  my  stay  in  London  attending  the 
lotemational  Veg.  Congress  a  good  many 
tomatoes  were  spoiled. 

"  This  summer  a  lai^  three-story  house 
was  built  by  one  of  the  members  and  the 
foundations  for  another  one  were  laid  in 
the  fall.     So  things  look  prosperous." 

NITROGENOUS  ALIMENTATION  OF 
PLANTS. 

By  Rosa  G.  Abbott. 

Electrical  stimulation  of  plants,  (viz.: 
the  application  of  strong  electrical  illumi- 
nation, together  with  the  passage  of  electri- 
cal currents  through  chemically  charged 
soils)  is  one  of  the  methods  by  which  the 
latent  resources  of  the  vegetable  kingdom 
will  be  materialized  doring  the  coming 
progressive  century. 

But  perhaps  an  even  greater  interest 
attaches  to  the  question  of  securing  an  in- 
crease of  nitrogen  for  the  purpose  of  aug- 
menting plant  nutrition.  Nitrogen  is 
equally  indispensible  to  animal  and  vegeta- 
ble existence.     It   is  a  gas,  which  mingled 


with  oxygen,  forms  the  atmosphere  which 
we  breathe,  and  upon  which  life  depends 
in  fiir  greater  degree  than  upon  the  grosser 
foods.  One  may  refrain  from  eating  for 
a  considerable  period  of  time  with  little 
harm  to  the  system,  but  breathe  one  must. 

Now,  there  are  various  ways  of  securing 
nitrogen  to  plants.  Nature  provides  it  in 
snows,  rains,  dews  and  fogs.  Hoar  frost  is 
rich  in  nitrogenous  compounds ;  and  when 
it  is  deposited  into  stems  and  tree  branches, 
it  absorbs  from  the  afr  a  large  quantity  of 
nitrogen  which,  after  a  thaw,  it  gives  to  the 
soil  for  plant  roots  to  feed  upon.  Forests 
accumulate  in  this  way  a  large  nitrogenous 
reserve :  far  greater  than  is  found  in  sparse- 
ly wooded  regions. 

The  nitrates,  (or  salts  of  nitric  acid)  are 
given  to  plants  through  the  ferments  which 
exist  in  all  soils,  and  through  ammoniacal 
compounds.  Nitrogen  is  also  found  in 
combination  in  many  animal  substances. 
Gaseous  nitrogen  exists  in  the  atmosphere, 
and  is  present  in  solution  in  earth  and 
water.  It  is  the  latter  form  of  nitrogenous 
alimentation  that  twentieth  century  science 
will  especially  endeavor  to  secure  in  greater 
measure  for  the  green  plants  :  viz . :  those 
growths  whose  tissues  contain  the  coloring 
matter  called  chlorophyl.  These  plants  are 
said  to  be  incapable  of  assimilating  nitrog- 
enous aliment  directly  from  organic  com- 
pounds such  as  the  farm  manures.  The 
essence  they  require  can  be  immediately 
absorbed  only  in  the  form  of  mineral  matter. 
French  scientists  describe  the  following 
mode  of  procuring  an  increase  of  gaseous 
nitrogen.  It  is  well  known  that  the  le- 
gumes, (beans,  peas,  lentils,  etc.)  thrive  in 
poor  soils  which  are  ill  adapted  to  many 
other  vegetable  growths.  The  roots  of 
certain  of  these  legumes  present  a  novel 
aspect.  Among  the  hairy  root-fibres  are 
seen  little  clusters  of  fleshy  tubercles,  the 

47 


d  by  Google 


iFOOfliitJME^fiAliM 


tia^ues  of  which  are  alive  with  tiny  organ- 
isms known  as  the  Dackria  radicoliis. 
These  germs  establish  themselves  upon  the 
leguminous  roots,  forming  the  protuberant 
tubercles  about  themselves  as  a  protection. 
They  do  not  Injure  the  plant  in  the  slightest 
degree,  but  on  the  contrary,  it  is  demonstrat- 
ed that,  in  some  occult  and  miraculous 
manner,  they  aid  the  plant  to  draw  gaseous 
nitrogen  directly  from  the  air,  earth  and 
water.  A  dying,  yellow  legume  may  be 
revived  in  the  following  way:  Take  a  quan- 
tity of  earth  from  a  garden  of  healthy  peas, 
or  other  thrifty  legumes.  Dissolve  this 
earth  in  water  and  shower  the  faded  plant 
with  the  infusion.  It  will  soon  revive  and 
become  vigorous  and  fruitful.  An  exami- 
nation of  its  roots  will  discoverthe  estab- 
lishment of  new  tubercles  containing  living 
bacteria  which  passed  into  the  soil  with  the 
earth  which  was  taken  from  the  healthy 
plants. 

legumes  then,  have  two  kinds  of  roots : 
one  being  the  ordinary  root  of  hairy  fibre, 
the  other  discovering  little  fleshy  tubercles 
made  by  the  association  of  the  helpful 
Bacteria  radicolus  with  the  root  tissues. 

All  microbes  are  not  necessarily  harmfiil 
or  bad.  Many  of  them  are  of  extreme  eco- 
nomic utility.  They  are  in  fact,  Nature's 
agents,  invested  with  power  to  reorganize 
and  to  clear  away  decomposing  matter : 
now  seeming  to  aid  disintegration,  again 
appearing  to  urge  on  reconstruction.  The 
earth-worm,  the  maggot,  the  microbe  are 
among  the  great  world  forces,  and  are  ulti- 
mately beneficent.  The  instance  cited  is 
an  illustration  of  true  commensalisme ,  or 
auxiliary  comradeship.  The  Bacteria  radi- 
colus finds  a  home  upon  the  leguminous 
roots,  and  in  return,  it  most  marv'ellously 
and  mysteriously  assists  the  plant  to  absorb 
increased  quantities  of  gaseous  nitrogen 
from  earth,  air  and  water. 


ARIZONA     FOR    FRUIT    GROWING. 

Mayor  O'Neil  of  Prescott  writes:  This 
city  is  in  a  high  section  of  Arizona  but, 
though  parts  of  the  summer  are  warm, 
eight  months  are  delightful.  Has  resided 
20  years  in  Arizona  and  California,  and 
several  years  ago  bought  1400  acres  of  land 
along  the  Gila  river.  There  oranges  and 
lemons  also  figs  and  grapes  prosper,  with 
the  advantage  over  California  of  being  in  the 
market  from  4  to  6  weeks  earlier  than  the 
fruit  products  of  that  state.  In  addition  all 
the  cereals  of  the  temperate  and  northern 
belt  and  zone  can  be  grown.  It  is  irrigated 
land  with  an  abundant  water  supply.  The 
soil  is  of  the  same  character  that  is  selling 
unimproved  in  California  for  ftxHn  $50  to 
$100  per  acre. 

Mayor  O'Neill  would  be  pleased  to  ha\'e 
a  colony  come  to  buy  or  rent  his  land.  He 
suggests  getting  from  the  Secretary  of  the 
Interior  (Washington,  D.  C.)  a  report  by 
the  governor  of  Arizona  conveying  an  idea 
of  what  can  be  realized  in  the  territory. 

Mr.  Hecker,  who  sends  us  the  foregoing, 
adds :  ' '  The  Gila  bend  country  has  a  futore 
all  the  more  now  that  climatic  vicissitudes 
in  Southern  California  have  drawn  restrict- 
ive barriers  to  orange  production  and  thns 
narrowed  the  reliable  belts  and  sections. 
Sudden  irosts  are  doubtless  not  occurring 
in  the  zone  where  said  1400  acres  lie." 

GRAPE  NATURAL   FERTILIZER- 

There  are  plantations  so  fer  up  hill,  and 
so  difficult  of  access  that  the  carrying  up  of 
the  conventional  manure  in  baskets  is  im- 
practicable. The  vintners  (Winzeis)  resort 
to  digging  trimming  (canes)  and  foliage 
into  the  soil.  With  this  modicum  of  help 
the  plant  must  be  content.  The  location, 
as  to  fitting  soil,  sunlight  and  purity  of  the 
atmosphere  compensates.  No  mildew 
occurs  there.  Such  refuse  is  not  rank,  o^-er- 
stimnlating  but  commendable. — R,  Hecker. 
March,  1898 


d  by  Google 


IMPROVED  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  MILL. 


We  have  received  the  following  note  from 
the  New  Machine  Co.,  that  manufacture  the 
Vefretarian  S"y  Mill,  dated  Feb.  4th,   1898: 

"  We  ate  glad  to  know  that  you  were  pleased 
with  the  last  three  which  we  sent  you  and 
think  that  yon  will  be  still  more  pleased  with 
these  as  we  have  made  eoine  changes  in  the 
pattern,    which  we  think  are  a  great  improve- 

The  mills  have  arrived  and  we  find  the 
improvement  consists  in  the  hopper  being 
made  one  casting  with  the  body  of  the  mill  on 
which  it  stands,  improving  the  shape  so  as 
to  facilitate  the  feeding  of  the  mill.  The 
weight  of  the  mill  is  also  decreased  without 
impairing  its  strength. 

TESTIMONIALS. 

The  following  are  all  voluntary  testimonials 
as  to  the  value  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill. 

Hnving  used  the  milt  I  have  no  hesitation  in 
saying  that  it  will  perfectly  meet  the  needs 
of  those  who  desire  pure  food  supplies  of  their 
own  manufacture. — Mrs.  Ellen  Goodell  Smith 
in  the  Fat  of  ike  Land  p.  52. 

I  have  received  the  mill.  I  am  well  pleased 
wilh  it.  I  have  it  set  up  at  a  friend's  house 
whois  using  it. — H.J.  Marly,  Cleveland,  O. 

I  ordered  one  of  your  mills  in  Feb.  '97  and 
have  had  it  in  constant  use  in  my  family  ever 
since.  I  could  not  do  without  it.  I  find  the 
sieves  unnecessary,  and  I  am  in  hearty,  agree- 
ment with  you  that  it  is  conducive  to  health 
to  eat  bran  and  all  with  our  wheat.  We  are 
all  very  fond  of  pea-nut  butter  and  the  mill 
makes  it  to  perfection.  I  am  constantly  find- 
ing new  possibilities  in  the  mill. — Rev.  Elmer 
P.  Krause,  Leechburg,  Armstrong  Co.,  Pa. 

The  mill  is  here ;  set  up  and  working  for 
higher  ethics  and  better  morals  among  all  my 
neighbors,  I  am  delighted  with  it,  forthoagh 
it  is  easy  enough  for  me  to  be  a  Vegetarian, 
it  is  B  very  difficult  thing  for  most  people  be- 
cause whole  whet^J  fiour  spoils  by  dampness  so 
soon  and  few  people  can  tell  whether  they  are 
eating  food  or  mere  rubbish.  By  baking  pea 
nuts  very  brown  and  salting  well  I  can  grind 
them  into  paste  which    no  meat  eater  can  tell 


from  raeatbylooV  or  taste. — Mrs.  N.E.Arnold, 
Dayton  a,  Florida. 

So  far  as  I  have  had  opportunity  to  try  it 
I  think  the  mill  will  do  excellent  work. — E. 
L.   Richardson,    Avon  Park,    Florida. 

The  V.  S.  Mill  came  all  right.  The  mill  is 
strong  and  durable  and  will  do  all  youclaim 
for  it.  I  am  well  pleased  with  it. — E-  Tre^isnre. 

I  have  had  a  pretty  good  chance  to  lest  the 
Vegetarian  Society  Mill  here  this  winter  and 
I  find  it  very  useful  indeed. — James  E. 
Ainsley,  Winterset,  Iowa,  Feb.  20th,  1898. 

It  works  satisfactorily.  It  is  simple  in 
construction ;  easily  turned  and  suitable  for  a 
variety  of  purposes  in  a  household.  We  have 
ground  wheat  and  maize  of  difierent  degrees 
of  fineness  and  nuts  to  our  satisfaction  with 
it. — Prof.  D.  Gregorson,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 
WHAT  CAN  BE  DONE  WITH  IT. 

An  almost  endless  variety  of  health  foods 
can  be  made  with  this  mill.  The  following 
directions  for  some  of  the  products  will  be 
suggestive  also  of  many  others  which  an  in- 
telligent experimenter  can  turn  out : 

No.  I. — To  make  Leuti),  Peas  and  Back- 
wheat  flour,  simply  grind  the  fineness  desired. 

No.  2. — Whole  wheat  flour. — Grind  the  best, 
thoroughly  cleansed  wheat  obtainable  as  finely 
as  possible  and  sieve  out  the  bran. 

No.  3. — Wheatena. — This  excellent  food  for 
mnsh  is  made  by  grinding  the  wheat  as  for 
whole  wheat  flour  and  sieving  out  both  the 
fine  flour  and  the  coarsest  bran. 

No.  4. — Glutin  flour. — Regrind  the  bran  ex- 
tracted from  the  whole  wheat  flour  (No.  2.)Bnd 
Wheatena  (No.  3  )and  sieve  out  the  light  bran. 
RECIPE. 

Prom  Miu  Lllysn  RIcharda,   I3>  AuKimti  St.,  PumIc,  N.  J. 

Nut  food  Croquettes. — We  do  like  your  nut 
food  very  much.  Sometimes  we  form  it  into 
little  croquettes  whirling  it  in  egg  and  then  in 
cracker  crumbs  or  gran  ola  and  fryingin  nutcoa. 
— This  is  good  made  from  any  kind  of  nuts 
ground  in  this  mill. 

The  improved  Mill  is  not  increased  in  price. 
To  obtain  it  remit  $4.75  in  check,  draft,  or  mon- 
ey order  to  V.  S.  A.,  310  Chestnut  St.,  Phila. 


d  by  Google 


REV.  J.  MADISON  ALLEN. 


db,  Google 


P®®B,  ji©^®  ^JsTB  a^]^BKK. 


Vol.  II,  New  Series,  No.  i6. 


Whole  Number  i 


REV.   JAMES  MADISON  ALLEN. 


JAMES  MADISON  ALLEN  is  now 
a  veteran  in  the  Vegetarian  vineyard 
of  labor  and  cultivation  having  In  the 
sixties  first  called  public  attention  to  Veg- 
etarianism publishing  in  the  Religio  Philo- 
sophical Journal  and  the  Banner  of  Light 
a  card  expressing  the  central  thought  on 
the  Vegetarian  principle  and  soliciting 
correspondence.  The  letters  responding 
bore  uniform  testimony  in  fevor  of  the 
Vegetarian  practice.  The  letters  have  been 
carefully  preserved  but  not  yet  published. 

In  1876  he  called  a  Hygienic  Home- 
school  Convention  at  Matfield,  East  Bridge- 
water,  Mass.  A  similar  meeting  was  held 
at  Ancora,  N.  J. '  After  spending  a  fall 
and  winter  in  Florida  he  returned  to  Ancora 
and  purchased  a  twelve  acre  &nn  where  a 
home  was  built  dedicated  to  Purity,  Peace 
and  Progress — Health,  Harmony  and  Hap- 
piness. No  animal  food  of  any  kind  was 
partaken  of  in  this  home  which  was  con- 
dacted  to  secure  individual  and  social 
improvement  through  mutual  altruistic 
endeavor  to  promote  each  other's  welfere 
by  obeying  all  known  laws  of  physical  and 
mental  health. 

After  six  years'  effort  to  maintain  this 
Home  in  all  its  high  purposes,  the  efTort 
was  given  up  and  Mr,  Allen  re-entered  the 
lecture  field. 

In  1895  steps  were  again  taken  towards 
colonizing  Vegetarianism  at  the  geogra- 
phical center  of  the  U,  S.  in  the  fruit  belt 
of  the  Ozark  mountains — the  land  of  "the 
Big  Red  Apple,"   South-western 


and  North-western  Arkansas.  Writing  of 
this  effort  Feb.  9,  r898  Mr.  Allen  remarks : 

"Here,  where  the  climate  is  mild;  the 
winters  short;  the  land  productive  and 
especially  adapted  to  raising  fruits,  nuts, 
vegetables  and  cereals  ;  the  water  pure  ; 
the  scenery  fine;  healthfiilness  unsurpassed ; 
it  was  thought  that  the  germ  of  a  true  civ- 
ilization might  be  implanted  with  some 
hope  of  permanency  and  genuine  success. 
Two  hundred  acres  of  land  were  selected 
and  purchased,  in  Washington  County, 
Arkansas,  for  the  purpose  and  a  beginning 
made.  It  now  remains  for  the  requisite 
number  of  earnest  and  devoted  humanita- 
rians to  come  forward,  combine  their  forces, 
and  demonstrate  the  feasibility  and  superi- 
ority of  a  humane  and  peaceful  Social  State 
— wherein  is  neither  Cruelty,  Caste,  nor 
Crime — Destitution,  Disorder,  nor  Disease 
— neither  Idle  Rich  nor  Idle  Poor,  but  all 
usefully  occupied  in  agreeable  ways  for  the 
general  welfare,  and  receiving  full  returns 
for  service  rendered. 

Single-handed  the  Vegetarian  is  at  a  dis- 
advantage. Combined,  our  influence  will 
be  limitless  and  irresistible.  Through  com- 
bination, we  were  able  at  Ancora  to  send 
out  a  monthly  periodical,  at  a  time  when 
there  was  no  other,  I  think,  in  the  United 
States  representing  the  humane  diet.  By 
combination  the  existence  and  continuance 
of  our  invaluable  American  organ,  Food, 
Home  a  Garden,  has  been  rendered  possi- 
ble— long  may  it  flourish !  Vegetarian 
journals,    literature,    societies    and  clubs. 


Digitized  hy  Google 


IffUi.'.'!    I,    I  i,ll|,|IJ|i 7',:-j.  ,    ,    '.  -  i.l...n..T;.i.,.    ■■■.  . :    ■  ■■     .    ■ ■"-,■;  ■ , 

IFOOD  HOME#GARDEN| 


eating-houses,  lectures  are  now  at  last  be- 
coming quite  the  order  of  the  day,  both  in 
America  and  in  Europe.  How  long  before 
the  spirjt  of  Association  will  develope  Colo- 
nization, in  fraternal  honiea,  where  no  blood 
shall  flow  to  appease  the  ferocious  appetite 
of  civilized  cannibalism,  and  humanism  in 
all  departments  take  the  place  of  present 
day  brutalism?" 

One  of  the  best  Manuels  of  Vegetarianism, 
"  Figs  or  Pigs"  has  been  published  by  Mr. 
Allen  and  it  contains  a  valuable  compendi- 
um of  the  arguments  for  a  pure  and  hu- 
mane diet.  Also  a  Handbook  of  Social 
Science,  a  Guide  to  Fraternal  Colonization. 

Our  good  Brother  Allen  was  bom  May 
15th,  1836,  at  East  Bridgewater,  Plymouth 
Co.,  Mass.  At  sixteen  he  commenced  a 
seven  years'  academic  and  collegiate  course 
which  he  pas.sed  under  the  kindly  influence 
of  a  happy  New  England  home.  The  dis- 
trict school  house  twenty  rods  away  was  the 
nearest  building  to  his  home.  Phrenology 
was  introduced  to  the  family  by  a  traveling 
lecturer  on  that  subject  and  studying  the 
books  published  by  Fowler  and  Wells,  led 
to  the  study  of  the  human  constitution  and 
food,  thus  was  he  early  led  to  espouse  the 
Vegetarian  cause.  Writing  of  this  period  he 
remarks ; 

"I  proposed  to  ray  brother  that  we  ab- 
stain from  meat  for  two  weeks.  Next 
morning  at  breakfast  I  was  momentarily 
tempted  to  partake  of  the  ham  and  eggs  (of 
which  I  was  fond) ;  but  I  said  within,  NO ! 
,and  have  never  once  since  eaten  nor  been 
tempted  to  eat  a  mouthful  of  dead  (or  live) 
hog,  nor  taken  in  all  so  much  as  a  pound 
of  any  kind  of  animal  flesh.  (Neither  have 
I  taken  a  single  mouthful  of  butter,  or  a 
spoonful  of  cow's  milk,  except  when  eating 
food  cooked  with  these  articles.  The  ob- 
jections to  animal  products  are,  I  think, 
viilid,  though  not  so  serious  as  totheuseof 
52 


flesh.  Better  let  the  animals  entirely  alone.} 
I  have  never  smoked  but  one  cigar — quite 
enough  for  a  life-time !  Have  never  drank 
a  swallow  of  distilled  liquor  of  any  kind, 
and  but  one-half  glass  of  wine  (under  pro- 
test.)" 

The  language  used  to  express  his  detesta- 
tion of  slaughtering  animals  for  food  is  very 
strong  and  he  concludes  a  long  and  inter- 
esting communication  thus : 

' '  I  believe  that  if  every  person  accustom- 
ed to  use  flesh  and  its  products  should  here- 
after be  obliged  to  do  the  kilting  also,  our 
tables  would  in  a  majority  of  cases  be  speed- 
ily cleared  of  every  last  vestige  of  murder  and 
made  attractively  iqnocent,  sweet  and  beau- 
tiful :  adorned  with  charming  flowers  and 
luscious  fhjils,  and  surrounded  and  over- 
shadowed with  a  pure,  innocent  and  peace- 
ful mental  atmosphere,  wherein  the  very 
angels  from  the  Peace-heavens  may  com- 
mingle their  loving  thoughts  with  otus, 
and  lift  us  to  loftier  planes  than  those  to 
which  we  can  ever  hope  to  attain  so  long  as 
we  remain  in  mental  rapport  with  tlie  sub- 
ter-human,  infernal  sphere  of  the  slaughter- 
house! I  can  truly  say  after  almost  a  half 
century  of  practical  experience  in  Vegetari- 
an living,  that  my  conversion  to  that 
principle  was  an  event  in  my  life  for  which 
I  shall  ever  be  profoundly  grateful.  It  was 
a  turuing-point  from  which  I  have  gone  for- 
wards towards  lofty  ideals.  Although  by 
inheritance  somewhat  deficient  in  vitality, 
I  have  never  in  my  life  had  headache,  nor 
(since  the  age  of  six  years)  taken  any 
stronger  'medicine'  than  Sage  Tea,  or 
Mullein  Syrup." 


Many  need  F.,  H.  &  G.  who  think  they 
are  not  able  to  pay  for  it  these  "hard  times." 
Such  persons  would  find  times  easier  by 
following  its  instructions. — Mrs.  C.  K. 
Smith,  San  Diego,  Cal. 

April, 


DigiTi; 


d  by  Google 


CHEAP    VEGETARIAN   MEAI,S. 

An  experimeDtal  mission  where  the  poor 
are  to  be  served  meals  at  a  peuay  a  dish 
and  a  bed  for  five  cents  with  a  bath  thrown 
in,  has  started  at  Kansas  City,  Mo.,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Church  of  the  Seventh 
Day  Adventists.  One  hundred  and  fifty 
cots  have  been  placed  in  a  large  room  in  a 
building  on  the  second  floor.  In  the  base- 
ment bath  tubs  and  showers  have  been  pro- 
vided, together  with  a  room  for  fumigating 
clothes  and  a  laundry  in  which  a  man  may 
wash  his  own  clothes.  The  meal  consists 
entirely  of  vegetables,  meat  being  barred 
because  the  management  are  believers  in 
Vegetarianism. — Boston  Transcript. 

R.  B.  DICKIE'S  EXPERIENCE. 
I  have  been  a  Vegetarian  in  principle 
for  nearly  50  years  and  each  year's  observa- 
tion and  experience  only  serves  to  strength- 
en my  good  resolutions  and  bring  me  into 
closer  practical  relations  with  the  true, ' '  full 
fledged"  Vegetarian. 

The  first  article  of  meat  I  eschewed, 
(about  50  years  ago)  was  pork,  and  never 
since,  have  I  had  any  fellowship  for  the 
hog  scavenger,  in  any  sliape  or  manner 
whatever,  I  used  a  little  beef  occasionally 
until  within  some  five  years  ago,  but  always 
felt  better  on  a  fruit  (when  I  could  get  it) 
and  &rinacious  diet.  It  is  now  over  a 
year  since  I  have  tasted  meat  of  any  kind, 
and  as  long  as  we  have  the  abuudance  of 
fruit,  of  almost  every  kind,  that  we  have 
here,  I  shall  never  have  occasion  to  touch 
meat.  I  am  perfectly  disgusted  with  all 
kinds  of  butchering,  I  heartily  concur  with 
J.  A.  Wilson  in  Oct.  no.  of  F.,  H.  &  G. 
under  the  head  of  "The  Eating  of  Animal 
Products."  Asa  Vegetarian,  I  am  allalone 
here,  surrounded  withlarge  hograisers  and 
eaters . — R .  B .  Dickie,  RoseviUe,  Placer 
Co.,Cal. 

1898 


AN  APPEAL,  TO  FOOD  REFORMERS. 
Food,  Homb  ft  Garden  looks  so  bright 
and  is  filled  with  such  choice  truths,  it  does 
seem  as  if  it  should  be  self-supporting  and 
why  it  is  not  I  cannot  understand.  If  as 
you  say  all  would  do  something  toward  it, 
it  would  be  a  success  financially  as  it  is  in 
every  other  way.  We  have  reason  to  feel 
proud  of  the  paper  but  let  ns  show  it  by 
"putting  onr  shoulder  to  the  wheel"  by 
sending  Br.  Clubb  from  one  to  five  dollars 
each  and  place  it  on  a  firm  basis  for  1898, 
.  Enclosed  please  find  $5.00  to  start  the 
good  work  1898.  Please  make  no  delay 
for  your  own  happiness  as  well  as  for  your 
faithful  working  Editor.  Yours  in  earnest 
— Caroline  A,  Paul,  Sea  Breeze,  Florida, 
Feb.  II,  1898. 

We  publish  the  above  because  Dr.  Paul 
understands  the  necessity  of  which  she 
speaks  and  what  she  does  not  understand 
is  the  delay  of  Food  Reformers  in  sending 
their  aid  to  the  cause. 


THE  OYSTER. 

The  following  editorial  from  some  news- 
paper was  enclosed  in  a  letter  from  our 
good  friend  Dr.  Caroline  A.  Paul  who  is 
wintering  at  Sea  Breeze,  Florida : 

' '  Many  scientific  men  are  waging  a  relent- 
less warfare  against  the  oyster,  its  diet  is 
said  to  consist  of  the  offal  of  the  ocean, 
which  is  so  noxious  in  character  that  a  liver 
constituting  nearly  one-half  the  bulk  of  the 
body  is  kept  working  unceasingly  to  protect 
it  from  impending  death.  It  is  recommend- 
ed as  '  a  wholesome  food  for  cormorants, 
fish-hawks  and  turkey  buzzards,  but  science 
as  well  as  nature  and  analogy  is  now  teach- 
ing us  that  the  human  stomach  was  never 
intended  to  be  a  sepulcher  for  scavengers. ' ' ' 

The  most  delicate  portion  of  an  oyster  is 
its  excrementitious  matter  which  usually 
forms  a  large  part  of  the  shell's  contents. 
53 


d  by  Google 


A    VEGETARIAN   ON  A    JOURNEY. 

Articlb  I. 

Bv  J,  George  Heip.  St.  Lotus,  Mo. 

"Can  it  be saccessfttlly  observed  in  tra- 
veling?" "What  do  yon  manage  to  eat? 
"How  do  yon  keep  npstrength?"  These 
are  a  few  of  the  questions  most  freqnently 
asked  a  Vegetarian  concerning  vegetarian- 
ism  especially  when  he  is  away  from  home. 

On  leaving  home  on  my  trip  from  St. 
Lotus  to  New  York,  I  &ied  samptnonsly 
as  ihy  mother  had  provided  me  with  a  bas- 
ket of  excellent  Inncb,  sufficient  to  last  till 
my  arrival  tn  New  York  City. 
',  In  a  city  like  New  York  with  its  abun- 
dant fiiiit  sttpplies,  it  is  not  difficult  for  a 
Vegetarian  to  get  along  and  I  did  not  let  the 
absence  of  Vegetarian  restaurants  interiere 
with  my  diet. 

On  taking  a  first  class  passage  on  a  steam- 
er to  Hamburg  I  was  soon  looked  upon  as  a 
sort  of  curiosity,  for  I  was  the  only  Vegeta- 
i[ian  passenger  in  the  fiiBt  cabin  and  al- 
tboi^^h  I  did  not  make  it  public,  it  soon 
became  generally  known  on  the  steamer 
tbatmch  a  curiosity  was  among  the  passen- 
geiB. 

On  the  steamer,  a  passenger  sitting  near 
me  Ootioed  that  I  did  not  touch  any  of  the 
meats  so  iU>undantIy  supplied,  for  the  steam- 
er iiimisfaed  excellent  meals,  almost  extrav- 
agantly so.  Having  previously  become 
acquainted  with  me  he  took  the  liberty  of 
asking  me  if  I  was  an  invalid,  and  on  being 
told  that  I  did  not  eat  any  flesh,  being  a 
Vegetarian,  and  tiie  steward  also  being  in- 
formed by  me  not  to  bring  me  any  meats, 
the  nems  soon  spread  over  the  steamer  and 
wherever  I  showed  myself,  I  was  over- 
whelmed with  questions  such  as  are  at  the 
head  of  my  letter. 

If  I  had  been  in  quest  of  cheap  notoriety 
I  cotild  have  been  amply  satisfied  for  I 
doubt  if  the  firing  of  a  gun  from  the  window 

54 


or  peep  hole  of  the  cabin  could  have  ct«ated 
anything  like  the  stir  the  information  did 
that  I  was  a  Vegetarian.  For  such  excite- 
ment would  have  been  only  momentary 
while  I  furnished  matter  for  conversation 
and  was  the  subject  of  good  humored, 
though  often  somewhat  rude,  jokes  to  the 
end  of  the  journey ;  and  no  doubt  the  pas- 
sengers for  months  afterwards  spoke  to  their 
friends  of  the  "crank"  on  the  steamer  who, 
afler  having  to  pay  for  all  the  good  things, 
refused  to  partake  of  what  they  considered 
the  best  of  everything. 

In  less  than  an  hour  from  the  time  the 
steward  received  his  ordeis  from  me,  the 
whole  crew  and  passengeis  from  the  first  to 
the  fourth  cabin,  officers  and  all,  seemed 
to  know  that  a  Vegetarian  was  on  board  and 
no  doubt,  had  they  been  very  superstitions, 
and  a  dangerous  storm  happened  to  come 
along  I  might  have  been  treated  as  a 
"Jonah"  and  perhaps,  no  whalein  sight. 

Introductions  were  asked  for,  andsym- 
pathy  ofiered  for  my  having  to  miss  so  many 
of  the  good  things,  as  th^calledtbem. 
The  "Whys"  and  "Wherefores"  were 
asked  after,  many  were  awed  by  the  in- 
credible "will-power"  of  such  an  indi- 
vidual. Finding  that  I  was  not  inclined  to 
be  angry  with  their  remarics  many  stale 
jokes  were  indulged  in  at  my  expense,  one 
would  advise  me — in  the  hearing  of  all  the 
first  cabin  passengeis — to  marry  a  "grass 
widow." 

The  engineer,  a  man  of  great  imaginary 
wisdom,  sarcastically  remarked  that  a  mule, 
a  sheep  and  a  monkey  belonged  to  the  Veg- 
etarian &mily,  and  did  not  seem  to  appre- 
ciate my  remark  that  the  hyena,  coyote, 
jackal,  carrion-crow,  skunk,  polecat,  stake 
and  other  reptiles  persisted  to  remain  in  the 
carnivorous  family,  he  seemed  even  to  feel 
grateful  that  I  did  not  act  as  ill  bred  as  he 
and  refrained  from  mentioning  certain  non- 
April, 


DigiTi; 


d  by  Google 


vegetarian  insects,  not  greatly  appreciated 
by  the  haman  bmily,  end  from  that  on,  at 
least,  that  sabject  was  severely  l«talone. 

One  German  passenger,  with  a  great  pre- 
tense to  extreme  wisdom,  inf<nnied  the  com- 
pany that  the  idea  of  Vegetarianism  was 
solely  American,  that  it  did  not  exist  in 
Germany,  but  found  be  had  exposed  his 
inexperience  in  speaking  too  hastily  when 
I  showed  an  address  list  of  Vegetarian  res- 
taurants in  the  principal  cities  of  Germany. 
One  would  be  hnmoristwanted  toknow 
If  when  I  took  sick  I  had  "hay  fever"  to 
which  I  replied  that  Vegetarians  usually 
left  fevers  of  any  description  to  non-vegeta- 
rians. When,  after  a  few  days  of  the  ocean 
voyage  a  storm  arose,  lastingsome  time  and 
I  was  among  the  few  able  to  go  about  and 
visit  the  snfiereis,  and  when  they  saw  that 
the  storm  had  no  effect  on  my  system,  not 
having  experienced  a  moment  of  sea-sick- 
ness, their  respect,  if  not  admiration,  for 
Vegetarianism  arose  considerably,  and  I 
found  that  antiquated  jokes  about  "grass 
widows"  and  "hay fever"  were  at  a  dis- 
count for  the  remainder  of  the  trip,  and 
what  was  more  encouraging  to  me  was  that 
I  felt  that  in  my  humble  capacity  I  was  able 
to  sow  the  seed  of  the  Vegetarian  doctrine, 
and  trust  it  has  brought  fruit,  even  if  much 
may  have  bllen  by  the  wayside  and  been 
lost ;  for  I  had  the  promise  of  a  number  of 
thosethatthey  would  give  Vegetarianism  a 
trial  and  would  huat  np  the  Vegetarian  res- 
taurants in  Kurope. 

In  my  next  article  I  shall  try  to  answer  the 
qnestiona  mentioned  at  the  head  of  this, 
and  give  my  experience  in  Germany, 
Austria,  Sweden,  Denmark,  Norway, 
France  and  England. 

PRACTICAL   CO-OPERATION. 
How  beautiful  that  ideal  lifewhich  a  Veg- 
etarian Colony  would  make  a  real  every- 
^y  experience  I     All  cruelty  and    blood- 


shed would  be  banished  from  sight  and 
sound ;  and  life  would  be  one  long  happy 
day,  filled  with  social  enjoyment  and  glad, 
loving  service  to  make  the  home  one  of  ex- 
quisite harmony,  free  from  even  a  discord- 
ant thought.  Bnt  for  the  many  thousands 
who  long  for  such  a  life,  yet  must  for  a  time 
make  the  best  of  their  present  lives  in  great 
cities,  an  admirable  plan  for  co-operation 
and  mutual  help  has  been  thought  out  and 
is  now  in  daily  operation  in  Chicago :  It 
originated  at  the  Northwestern  University 
Settlement,  353  Chicago  Avenue,  and  J. 
Still  Wilson  its  principal  promote,  is  a 
Christian  who  believes  that  lovb  an^  ssr- 
VICE  are  the  true  test  of  a  Christian  life. 

A  store  has  been  established  and  all  per- 
sons may  deposit  articles, for  sale.  A  cer> 
tificate  of  deposit  is  issued  in  lieu  of  such 
articles,  and  when  such  ar^cles  are  sold 
a  check  is  issued  and  is  given  in  payment. 
This  check  passes  freely  from  band  to  band 
receiving  a  fresh  endorsement  every  time  it 
is  used.  It  is  received  by  all  wbc|  are  in 
sympathy  with  co-operation  and  many  stores 
of  all  kinds  as  well  as  tradespeople  and  pro- 
fessional men  have  pledged  themselves  to 
receive  them  for  goods  or  service. 

No  pledge  of  any  kind  is  required.  No 
cluinge  of  locality  or  business.  No  one  it> 
obliged  to  continue  to  receive  ^em ;  what  i;> 
done  is  done  willingly  and  gladly^because 
men  see  that  competition  and  selfishness 
work  woe  and  poverty  and  the  cpirit  which 
alone  will  save,  is  the  spirit  that  fenden 
service  to  humanity  gladly  and  willingly  ; 
FORCE  is  worse  than  useless :  lovb  alone 
will  save.  The  system  works  well  in  everj- 
respect  and  has  brought  help  where  many 
men  were  rusting  in  idleness,  owing  to  a 
scarcity  of  money.  Men  can  often  employ 
each  other  when  none  of  them  have  a  dollar 
in  money  and  the  check  system  enables 
them  to  do  so  to  advantage. — W.  C.  Ferris, 
of  the  "College  of  Occult  Forces." 

55 


d  by  Google 


iwaTOiiaiRDEi 


w^. 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


Veo«i*»ian  SOC 

IHIY  OF  Ahbkica,  PllbllshCfl, 

I«3  Ponlkrod  St.. 

for  the    EiKiar   to  be  sddnsHd  to 
tatlon  F.  PhlTaddphla. 

RHV.    HBNRY  9.  CLUBB.  Edilor. 

■U..(ooi8»l«criptlODB   Ji,»«ye«r. 

isiiiMrtioasSj.os 

tint,    one    lateTtlon,   lo  ccdU, 
A>r  I3lid«  I  lnierfloii  Ji.ao. 
o.    Pcrptre.tialie,Si3,oatMe, 

The  Vegetarian  Society  is  being  forced 
into  business  by  the  demands  of  its  friends. 
See  Business  Items  in  our  advertising  col- 


The  Boston  Vegetarian  Society  at  its 
meeting  March  13th  discussed  the  feaaibihty 
of  a  Restaurant.  Wm.  D.  Brewer,  '30 
Court  St. ,  is  Secretary. 


J.  Howard  Moore  of  Chicago  University 
is  willing  to  deliver  lectures  on  Vegetarian 
topicswithineasy  reach  ofChicago,  provid- 
ed expenses  are  paid.  Mr.  Moore  is  an 
eloquent  defender  of  our  defenceless  fellow 
creatures. 


was  prepared  10  rake  a  V  egeianan  partner 
and  convert  his  place  into  a  Vegetarian 
Restaurant. 


At  the  March  meeting  of  the  Phila.  V.  S. 
Mr.  Clubb  from  the  Committee  on  Restau- 
rant reported  that  a  gentleman  now  running 
a    Restaurant    on  nth  St.  below  Chestnut 


The  use  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill 
is  opening  up  the  way  for  persons  otherwise 
out  of  employment  to  manu&cture  health 
foods  for  local  consumption.  Everything 
produced  by  the  mill  is  best  fiesh  ground 
especially  nut  food,  Graham  whole  wheat 
flour,  com  meal  sc. 

Josephine  Grannis,  Supt.  of  the  Non 
Alcoholic  Medication  Branch  of  the  W.  C. 
T.  U.  read  a  paper  on  Health  Foods  recent- 
ly at  the  annual  convention  of  the  W,  C.  T. 
U.,  Florida,  in  which  the  subject  of  a  blood- 
less diet  was  dJscnssed.  We  may  present 
the  paper  in  another  issue. 


Any  industrious,  intelligent  man  can 
make  a.  good  living  with  a  Vegetarian  So- 
ciety Mill  in  producing  a  choice,  fresh  nut 
food  and  with  a  motor,  could  manu&cture 
Graham  wholewheat  flour  also  for  sale 
fresh  to  all  his  neighbors. 

Mrs.  Lou.  E.  Rail,  Supt.  of  the  Depart- 
ment of  Mercy,  Indiana  W.  C.  T.  U.  is  dis- 
tributing the  Synopsis  of  the  Vegetarian 
System.  She  became  a  Vegetarian  six 
years  ago,  immediately  after  the  Dept.  of 
Mercy  was  created  in  that  State  at  her 
instigation. 


We  will  thank  our  friends  to  send  us  all 
the  recipes  they  may  have  met  with  for 
savory  or  sweet  nut  preparations:  cro- 
quettes ;  griddle-cakes ;  cookies,  macaFoons ; 
short-cakes,  with  or  without  fruit;  potted 
nut  meat;  nut  sandwiches  etc.  as  we  desire 
to  publish  them  after  testing  the  same. 

The  increasing  demand  for  nut  foods  is 
a  good  sign  of  improved  dietetic  habits  and 
in  compliance  with  the  desire  of  manufac- 
turers of  nut  food  we  have  now  for  sale 
Vegetarian  Society  Mills  ailarge  capacity 
to  be  worked  by  steam,  electric  or  other 
motors.  They  will  cost  from  $20.00  to  J55 
each  according  to  size  and  capacity.  Write 
for  particulare. 

The  N.  Y.  Vegetarian  Society  at  its 
March  Meeting  was  addressed  by  TheSwami 
Abhedanaiida  of  India  antl  Queen  Stella  of 
the  Gonzales  Tribe  of  Gypsies.  Arthur 
Haviland  writes :  '  'The  Swami  is  a  distin- 
guished East  Indian  scholar,  of  the  school 
of  Sanuyasius — the  most  ancient  order  of 
religious  teachers.  A  man  of  distinguished 
April, 


d  by  Google 


appearance,  dignity  and  repose,  and  of  un- 
nsoal  intellectual  strength.  He  combines 
a  wonderful  command  of  English  with  a 
pleasing  delivery. ' ' 

Strength,  health  and  harmony. ar«  not 
found  in  an  animal  or  vegetable-diet  but  are 
found  in  God  (Good). .  Christian  Science 
points  to  the  truth; — Ruth  M.  MiJLwain,  C, 
S.  1315  Franklin.  St.,  Oakland,  C»l.— The 
above  is  given  as  a  reason  for  discontinuing 
the  taking  of  F.,  H.  and  G.  It  is  truth  that 
we  are  seeking  and  if  Christian  Science,  will 
relieve  people  of  the  evil  Jesuits  of  eating 
flesh  and  drinking  intoxicating  liquors  with- 
out abstaining  from  them  it  should  be  made 
known.    Will  R.  M-  M.  explain  how?     ' 

Our"  friends  would  do  well  we  think,  to 
secure  the  services,  if  possible,  of  Rev.  H. 
S.  Lake,  whose  portrait  appears  herein,  on 
her  anticipated  trip  to  the  Pacific  Coast  in 
early  May.  She  is  spoken  of  by  people  and 
press  as  one  of  the  most  advanced  and  inter- 
esting, as  well  as  eloquent  speakers  now  on 
the  platform,  and  she  has  given  earnest  and 
enthusiastic  support  to  the  Vegetarian  cause 
for  twenty  years.  Write  early  if  dates  are 
desired,  as  she  will  make  but  few  stops. 
Address  1585  Wilson  Ave,,  Cleveland,  O. 


James  Vick's  Sons,  Rochester,  N.  Y., 
have  sent  us  their  annual  donation  to  the 
press,  a  large  assortment  of  flower  and  veg- 
etable seeds  which  favor  w^  cordially  recip- 
rocate by  inserting  their  announcements. 
Their  Annual  always  ledds  the  seed  cata- 
logues in  good  taste,  beauty  and  variety  and 
this  year  is  a  most  perfect  ,gem  of  art  print- 
ing. It  is -learly  40  years 'since  we  first  did 
business  with  this  old  established  house 
when  we  were  in  Michigau  and  James  Vick, 
its  founder,  was  its  diligtnt  chief  Liberal- 
ity to  the  press  and  fidelity  to  their  patrons 
have  built  up  a  most  extensive  and  we  pre- 


sume profitable  business  in  the  various 
departments  of  horticnlture  and  next  year 
they  will  celebrate  the  jubilee  of  its  estab- 
lishment on  which  we  offer  our  sincere 
congrathlations.  -    '    ''  ■   '  '  ' 

We  understand  the  Rev.  James  Clarke, 
Vice  Pres.  ■  of'the  Vegetarian  Society,  and 
his  daughter,  Misa  "Bertha  'Clarke ;  Mr.  & 
Mrs.  Tongue  and  possibly  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Harrison  will  leave  England  by  the  Cunard 
S.  S.  April  9th,  I898,  and  are  expected  to 
arrive  in  New  York,  April  i6th.  If  nothing 
happens  to  prevent  thi^,  Mr.  Clarke  will 
pfeach  at  the  Bible  Christian  Church,  Park 
Ave.,  Philadelphia,  Sunday  April  17th  to 
which  occasion  there  is  a  general  invitation. 
■A  reception  will  be  tendered  the  distin- 
guished visitors  the  following  Wednesday. 


MARRIED. 
SILLIMAN— ENGLISH.— October  23, 
1897,  by  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb,  at  whose 
residence,  1023  Fonlkrod  St.,  Station  F, 
Philadelphia,  the  ceremony  was  performed, 
Mr.  Charles  Franklin  Silliman -of  Vineland, 
Ni  J.  to  Miss  Annie  Force  English  of  Lin- 
wood,  Pa. — Mr.  a  Mrs.  SilUman  will  be  at 
home  at  "Rosedale,"  near  Vineland  after 
April  ist,  1898,  where  a  true  Vegetarian 
home  will  continue  to  be  maintained  and 
will  we  trust  be  long  enjoyed  by  them. 


OUR  VACANT  LOTS. 
What  the  public  health  requires  is  such 
legislation  as  will  make  it  obligatoiy  on 
owners  of  vacant  lots  to  have  them  drained 
and  either  nicely  sodded  or  cultivated  as 
firuit,  vegetable  or  flower  gardens  so  that 
they  can  never  be  allowed  to  become  nui- 
sances, dumping  grounds  of  filth ;  cesspools 
of  dirty  water,  and  productive  of  noxious 
weeds,  the  seeds  of  which  scattered  by  the 
wind  and  by  birds, ,  add  so  much  to  the  la- 
bor of  gardeners. 

57 


d  by  Google 


0^ 


MIDDAY  ITOT  LUNCHHON. 


Crtan  PBlb. 

Sliced  Orugaa 

CrlUed  AlmoDi^ 
AMOftcd  NuU. 


RECIPES. 

Peanut  Pritters. — ^Take  two  tablespoons 
of  ground  peanuts,  j4  -fup  of  granola,  2 
eggs,  milk  enougb  to  make  a  rather  thin 
batter,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  all  together 
and  drop  in  spoonfuls  an  a  hot  griddle. 

French  Dressing. — }4  teaspoon  of  salt, 
same  of  pepper  and  of  paprica,  that  semi- 
sweet  red  pepper  of  Mexico,  then  add  i 
tablespoon  of  fine  vinegar  and  2  to  3  of 
Diamond  Butter  Oil.  Put  all  in  a  shaker 
and  sbak«:  serve  on  the  salad  immediately. 

Almond  Cake. — 2  cups  sugar,  i  spoonhil 
butter,  2  tablespoons  ground  almonds,  2 
eggs,  I  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  the 
sugar,  butter  and  ground  nuts  well  together, 
beat  in  the  egg;  then  add  the  milk.  Sieve 
the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together 
and  mix  in  with  the  other  ingredients  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Grilled  Almonds. — Make  ready  a  cup  of 
blanched  and  dried  almonds.  To  i  cup  of 
sugar  add  }4  cup  of  water  and  boil  for  about 
10  minutes;  then  drop  in  the  almonds  and 
continue  the  boiling  till  the  nuts  tnm  a 
faint  yellow ;  next  remove  quickly  from  the 
fire  and  stir  until  the  syrup  reaches  the 
sugaiy  stage,  clinging  to  the  nuts.  They 
are  then  spread  to  cool  on  a  plate  over 
which  a  piece  of  waxed  paper  has  been  laid. 
Serve  the  same  as  salted  almonds. 

Tid  Bit  Salad.— Take  a  small  quantity 
each  of  cold  potatoes,  carrots,  peas,   beans 

58 


and  lentils,  or  whatever  tid  bits  of  vegeta- 
bles happen  to  be  left  over  from  theptevions 
dinner.  Chop  all  up  together,  adding  a 
small  onion  chopped  with  parsley,  a  few 
tablespoons  of  any  ground  nuts,  a  little  cel- 
eryand  mustard  seeds.  Season  to  taste  and 
add  French  dressing.  Garnish  with  hard 
boiled  ^^  and  dices  of  cold  boiled  beets. 
This  salad  can  be  simplified  by  using  but 
one  or  two  vegetables. 

The  recipe  for  Cream  Pufls  will  be  found 
on  page  36  of  7^  Atneruan  Veg-^larian 
Cookery.  We  find  that  Nutcoa  can  be  used 
in  this  recipe  instead  of  butter  with  equally 
good  results. 

ONE  MEAL  A  DAY. 

Mrs.  Ellen  S.  Gaskell,  the  advocate  of 
super-cooking,  writes:  "  Nearly  two 
years  ago  my  husband  and  I  adopted  Dr. 
Dewey's  advice  and  gave  up  break&st.  We 
eat  nothing  till  abont  mid-day.  For  some 
time  we  alsphadaiair  meal  about  6  p.  m., 
but  we  found  that  we  had  so  little  desire  for 
food  at  that  time  that  we  took  less  and  less, 
nntil  now  we  rarely  take  anything.  We 
have  only  one  imeal  a  day  and  that  we  feel 
gives  us  all  w^  want  for  our  work.  Should 
we  ever  need  ail  evening  meal  it  would  take 
the  form  of  a  ^ligbt  tea  or  merely  a  little 
finit.  Many  p^jple  say  tome,  "That  is 
an  ideal  way  to  live,  and  would  cause  an 
immense  saving  of  trouble — but — can  you 
work  anil'i  I  iteply  that  I  do  all  the  work 
of  my  flat  of  six  Irooms,  even  to  cleaning  the 
windows.  I  do  ajll  the  washing  and  ironing, 
including  the  starched  things.  I  make  my 
own  dresses,  &c\ ,  and  do  all  the  necessary 
mending.  Cookimg,  of  course  I  do,  and 
baking.  I  make  pu%serves,  bottle  fnAi,  and 
candy  peel  of  lemons  and  oranges.  I  also 
lecture  and  sing  iir-  public." 

1  April. 


Dl-zedbyGoOgle 


.^^ 

f^^ 


PHYSICAL  TRAININa 


THE  Mc  PADDEN'  System  of  Physical  training  is  w^  illostrated  in  a  book  pub- 
lished in  New  York  by  the  Mc  Fadden  Exerciser  Co.  We  believe  a  chief  cause 
of  nervous  prostratioB  and  weakness  among  both  young  people  and  old  and  of  both 
sexes  is  the  want  of  proper  exercise.  The  Mc  FaddenC^.  have  done  \7ell  to  accom- 
pany their  appliances  with  this  elaborate  work  which  is  so  profusely  illustrated  as  to  make 
all  directions  clear  to  the  learner. 

The  outfit  for  the  family  style  B,  costs  but  four  dollars.  It  can  be  used  by  a  man, 
*  woman  or  child  as  shown  in  the  following  illustration: 
The  chapter  on  Vege- 
tarianism— Meat  Diet&c. 
although  not  free  from 
popular  prejudice  in  fe- 
Tor  of  a  mixed  diet, 
admits  that  ' '  When  one 
adopts  aVegetarian  diet, 
and  does  not  exclude 
milk  and  e|^,  and  is 
living  at  home,  or  in  an 
institution  where  a  lai^ 
variety  of  Vegetarian 
dishes  can  be  secured, 
cooked  in  the  most  pala- 
table manner,  no  great 
objection  can  be  made  to 
this  system  of  diet. ' ' 

Again   "Though  a  high  degree  of  uninterrupted  health  may  be  enjoyed  while  following 
a  rational  Vegetarian  diet,  a  strictly  meat  diet  as  advocated  by  a  few  theorists,  cannot  in 
my  opinion  be  of  benefit."     The  book  also  contains  valuable  quotations   from  Felix 
L.  Oswald,  Dr.  Holbrook  and  other  dietetic 
;  authorities.     The  Exerciser  tised  indue  mod- 

eration will  do  much  to  add  strength  and 
length  ofdays  to  all  who  use  it. 

Style  C,  with  metal  pulleys  costs  only 
$3.00.  The  same  with  wood  pulleys,  metal 
parts,  plain  finish  is  supplied  at  $2.00. 

Max  Unger  the  "champion  strong  boy  of 
the  world"  says:  "I  use  your  exerciser 
daily  in  my  training  and  am  greatly  pleased 
with  it.     It  is  the  l^t  I  have  seen." 

All  the  styles  are  accompanied  with  the 
book  of  instructions  and  illustrations  contain- 
ing 128  pages. 

One  quotation   referred  to  is  the  following: 
"  We  should    recognize    that    our    earfii 
Max  Tnger.  abounds  with  wholesome  and  nutritious  pro- 

ducts of  the  vegetable  kingdom,  ftx)m  the  tropics  to  the  polar  limits  of  arboreal  vegetation, 
and  total  abstinence  from  flesh-food  would  promote  the  cause  of  moral  as  well  as  physical 
health." — Felix  L.  Oswald,  A.  M.,  M.  D.,  author  of  "  Physical  Education." 

The  Vegetarian  Society  will  supply  these  appliances  and  for  each  dollar  paid  for  them 
will  supply,  in  addition  F. .  H .  &  G.  one  year  to  any  new  subscriber. 

1898  59 


d  by  Google 


A  LECTURE  TOUR. 

Rev.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Lake,  a  Vegetarian  for 
twenty  years,  has  Something  to  say : 

"Food,  Home  &  Garden  is  steadily 
improving,  albeit,  it  was  always  worth 
double  its  cost.  Neat,  tidy,  tempting,  in 
both  tjfpography  and  temper ;  it  is  sure  to 
win  its  way  to  the  homes  and  hearts  of  the 
people.  The  information  it  contains  is 
always  valuable,  but  now  and  then,  some- 
thing is  especially  commendable.  Such  is 
the  article!  of  J.  Howard  Moore,  in  Feb. 
issue.  I  have  never  had  the  pleasure  of 
reading  before,  so  succinct,  straightforward, 
and  satisfactory  a  statement  of  the  great 
truths  which  are  stru^ling  to  be  bom  into 
the  world. 

"I  quote  here  a  sentence  which  should 
be  placed  in  letters  of  light,  where  all  majf 
read:  'There  is,  in  fact;  but  one  crime  in 
the  universe,  and  all  varieties  trf  improprie- 
ty whatsoever  are  aspects  or  phases  of  this 
crime.     //  ts  ike  crime  of  exploUatiort .' ' 

"  I  congratulate  you  in  having  had  the 
good  fortune  to  present  this  statement, 
pregnant  with  the  world's  redemption,  to  the 
readers  of  Food.  I  congratulate  the  au- 
thor on  the  happy  circumstance  which 
brought  it  into  being,  in  his  brain.  May 
it  receive  many  other  acknowledgements 
of  appreciation,  besides  my  own. 

"It  is  not  improbable  that  I  may  soon  have 
the  opportunity  to  'add  my  testimony'  to 
the  great  work  ;  in  a  contemplated  Western 
trip.  Parties  who  may  be  desirous  of  ex- 
tending the  blessings  of  the  new  health- 
thought  in  their  location,  and  who  may  wish 
to  arrange  for  lectures  on  the  line  of  the 
Wisconsin  Central,  Mil.  and  St.  Paul,  and 
Great  Northern,  to  the  Pacific,  may  address 
me,  as  below,  and  no  doubt  some  suitable 
arrangement  can  be  made.  It  is  perhaps 
almost  needless  to  state  that  I  have  been 
engaged  in  platform  work  for  twenty  years 
60 


and  after  a  brief  retirement  am  now  about 
to  re-enter  the  field.  My  subjects  will 
cover  Light,  Life.  Love,  Law  and  Labor; 
and  I  hope  may  be  helpful  to  many  who 
are  seeking  a  better  and  truer  way.  "^Mrs. 
H.  S.  Lake,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  Mch.  3,  1898. 
We  heartily  commend  Mts.  Lake's  lect- 
uring on  the  various  phases  of  Vegetarian 
philosophy.  Her  remarks  are  practical  and' 
always  eloquent  and  acceptable  to  a  popular 
audience.  The  pose  in  the  picture,  page  63, 
shows  her  favorite  attitude  while  addressing 
an  audience.  • 


INTERESTING  EXPERIMENTS. 

Practical  people  have  long  been  aware 
that  cattle  could  be  &ttened  on  grain.  But 
scientists  have  been  inclined  to  lay  this 
result  to  the  gradual  accumulation  of  vege- 
table oils  add  ilot  to  transformation  of  starch. 
According  to  the. American  Cullivalor  of 
Feb.  28,  18^8,  the  change  in  question  has 
now  been  scientifically  proved  at  the  State 
Experiment  Farm,  Geneva,  N.  Y, 

Cattle  were  there  fattened  on  com  meal 
from  which  all  the  oil,  in  the  form  of  oil, 
was  excluded,  no  oleaginous  matter  in  any 
shape  being  allowed  them.  Every  particle 
of  food  was  weighed.  All  excreta  were 
weighed  and  analyzed.  The  results  were 
interesting.  It  appears  that  even  cows  on 
this  diet  gave  milk  normally  rich  in  cream- 
Thus  it  seetns  indisputably  shown,  in  tech- 
nical form,  that  starchy  carbohydrates  can 
beehani^,  by  the  vital  powers  of  the  aini- 
mal,  into  oil  and  fat.  If  any  cereal  feeders 
are  spare  and  thin  it  is  not  due  to  the  qual- 
ity of  their  food !  Here  an  analogous  feet 
may  be  noted  :  that  the  West  India  negroes 
get  fat  during  molasses-making.  We  may 
indeed  prophesy  that  it  will  be  found  that 
this  metabolic  power  of  life  extends  much 
further  than  we  yet  believe. — Wm.  Penn 
Alcott. 

April, 


d  by  Google 


f 


rden 


A  PIONEER'S  EXPERIENCE. 

This  place  which  I  have  taken  was  as  the 
Indians  had  left  it,  and  for  over  twenty- two 
years  I  have  kept  on  improving  it.  I 
^taited  in  with  hardly  any  means  at  all ;  had 
even  to  work  out  at  75  cents  a  day  to  earn 
the  money  to  buy  my  first  spades,  which 
cost  me  then  $175  apiece.  Not  even  the 
shadowof  a  plow,  wagon  and  team.  Sol 
had  not  a  very  easy  row  to  hoe,  and  my  talk 
about  work  is  not  from  hearsay  only. 

Last  year  one  of  my  three  sons  made  an 
experiment  in  raising  oats,  in  a  way  some- 
what differing  from  the  common  one.  Hav- 
ing our  own  blacksmithing  outfit,  he  had 
made  himself  a  drill  for  planting  his  oats 
(and  other  small  grains  of  com)  in  rows 
about  3)4  feet  a  part,  so  as  to  have  room  af- 
terwards to  go  through  with  a  light  one 
horee  outfit  of  his  own  make  also,  aud  to 
cultivate  his  oats  about  the  same  way  as 
drilled  com.  The  chances  for  the  crop  had 
not  been  the  very  best  under  ordinary  treat- 
ment with  which  they  might  have  yielded 
about  25  bushels  to  the  acre,  but  after  every 
shower  he  went  through  with  his  pony  and 
cultivator  breaking  and  pulverizing  the  crust 
and  the  result  was  183  bushels  of  splendid 
oats  from  3  acres, — not  that  chafiy  stuff  that 
so  often  passes  as  oats ,  but  grain ,  that  would 
be  just  the  thing  to  be  worked  up  into  oat- 
meal if  we  had  the  appliances  for  it,  and 
weighing  abont  40  pounds  to  the  bushel. 
And  when  we  made  a  close  calculation  we 
found,  that  one  man's  work,  for  one  hour 
with  a  pony,  had  produced  3  bushels  of 
gram. 

Now  it  takes  about  one  pound  of  oat-meal 
to  go  for  a  breakfast  for  us  five  persons ;  al- 
low 25  pounds  of  meal  for  a  bushel,  the  rest. 


15  pounds  being  chaff,  (evidently  too  much 
of  the  latter)  and  we  arrive  at  the  result, 
that  it  would  take  about  1 5  bushels  of  such 
oats  to  supply  us  with  our  morning's  repast 
for  the  whole  year ;  and  these  can  be  pro- 
duced by  5  hours  of  work  of  one  man ,  horses 
aiding  him  in  it,  aud  no  hard  work  for  them 
either.  Reduce  it  to  one  person,  and  you 
have  one  hour's  work  for  a  whole  year's 
breakfasting;  of  course  the  trouble  of  cook- 
ing not  included. 

Taking  up  our  wheat  crop  and  figuring 
ou  the  work  it  took  to  supply  a  person  with 
the  necessary  wheat  for  one  year's  use,  I 
set  the  quantity  at  5  bus.  enough,  if  you  use 
whole  wheat,  and  not  only  abont  one  fourth  ' 
of  its  value,  as  is  done  by  the  use  of  super- 
fine flour.  I  found  that  those  5  bushels  had 
cost:  lyi  hour  of  team  work,  from  2  —  4 
horses  at  a  time;  and  5 — 6  hours  of  a  man's 
work,  including  the  driving  of  horses  and  20 
cents  pay  in  cash  for  the  steam  thrasher. 

I  made  a  calculation  on  melons,  and  found 
that  one  hotir's  work,  mostly  hand  work 
with  the  hoe,  had  produced  about  200  lbs. 
of  melons.  Butthatonly  includes  the  work 
of  producing  them.  I,ast  year  an  hour's 
labor,  with  and  without  horses,  was  about 
equivalent  to  100  lbs  of  grapes.  I  believe 
about  the  same  ratio  will  apply  to  apples, 
pears,  peaches  etc. 

To  sum  it  up :  a  radical  Vegetarian  can 
produce  the  materials  for  his  sustenance  in 
less  than  half  an  hour  a  day  and  this  is  the 
outside  limit.  Part  of  the  work  of  course 
takes  a  man  who  can  handle  horses  and 
machinery,  but  the  greater  part  of  it  can  be 
done  by  ladies  and  children  just  as  well. 

So  it  seems,  with  the  general  adoptionof 
Vegetarianism  the   milleniuni  would   be  at 


d  by  Google 


hand.  With  half  an  acre  of  tillable  land  for 
a  person  and  not  quite  work  enough  to  keep 
the  blood  in  healthy  circulation,  there  might 
be  plenty  for  all,  and  all  could  apply  them- 
selves to  mental  self-culture  and  develop 
their  gifts. 

Vegetarianism  must  deliver  ns  rich  and 
poor,  there's  hardly  any  difference,  from  the 
slaving  and  toiling  for  our  physical  existence. 

It  would  be  no  trick  at  all  to  organize  a 
vegetarian  agricultural  and  industrial  colony 
even  on  the  capitalistic  basis,  giving  the 
invested  capital  all  possible  security  and  a 
liberal  share  in  the  earnings,  and  yet  make 
life  so  easy  even  for  the  laborer,  who  has 
not  a  cent  to  invest  in  it,  that  fear  of  want 
or  care  for  the  future  would  be  as  foolish  as 
it  now  would  be,  to  stand  out  in  a  January 
blizzard  yammering  for  a  mouthful  of  fresh 
air.  There  is  enough  of  it,  and  the  million- 
aire has  not  one  jot  nor  tittle  of  advantage 
over  the  poorest  tramp. 

If  the  Vegetarian  who  can  live  on  half 
an  hour's  labor  a  day,  cannot  wait  for  re- 
turns I  wonder  who  else  should  be  able? 
They  could  even  embark  in  gardening,  in 
contradistinction  to  the  now  prevailing  van- 
dalism of  the  cattle  raiser,  This  again 
points  to  the  hard  fact,  that  the  path  to  the 
promised  land  leads  through  co-operation 
and  collective  ownership. 

This  social  development  must  and  will 
come  in  one  shape  or  other,  and  then  will  be 
thebegiimingof  a  fearful  revolution,  as  radi- 
cal and  wide  reaching,  as  the  world  never 
yet  lias  witnessed,  and  that  we  could  set  up 
a  sliining  example  very  soon  is  the  sincere 
and  ardent  wish  of  the  wTiter. — Hermann 
Studer,  Cedar  Vale,  Chautauqua  Co.  Kansas. 
SEAWEED  FOR  MANURING? 

Would  not  the  famous  salt  and  lime  mix- 
ture, proportion  i  to  2,  or  3  to  5  (in  8)  be 
.  very  effective  for  filling  kelp  (seaweeds)  for 
fertilizer?   in  a  shape  calculated  to  turning 

62 


it  readily  under,   well  covered,   and  out  of 
reach  of  tillage. 

Much  of  so  called  manure  is  so  lightly 
tucked  down  as  to  miss  the  intention  of  the 
farmer.  The  sun  ought  not  to  have  the 
chance  of  striking  and  wilting,  causing  loss 
of  ammonia.  Short  material  only  can  be 
thus  secured,  and  said  mixture  will  do  that 
thoroughly. — R.  Hecker. 

ARIZONA  ORANGES. 

Salt  River  valley,  Arizona,  is  coming  to 
the  front  as  a  producer  of  early  oranges.  A 
number  of  carloads  having  been  shipped 
from  Phoenix  (the  capital  of  the  territory) 
up  to  date  (New  Year's,  1898)  this  season. 
— Los  Angeles  Daily  Times. — Contributed 
by   R.  Hecker. 

ARIZONA  COLONIZATION. 

Office  of  the  Mayor,  Prescott,  Arizona, 
Feb.  14,  1898,  R.  Hecker,  Esq.,  Dear  Sir: 
Your  favor  of  the  8th  is  at  hand,  and  I  thank 
you  for  the  kindly  interest  you  have  dis- 
played in  the  colony  matter.  I  believe  that 
in  such  colonies  lie  the  means  for  great  im- 
provements in  our  social  and  industrial 
conditions,  just  as  the  influence  of  the 
early  Dutch  and  Puritan  colonists  is  still 
felt  for  good.  A  model  colony  speaks 
louder  than  any  other  argument  can  of  what 
can  be  accomplished  by  parties  faithftilly 
following  out  their  own  ideas,  untrammelled 
by  the  narrow  prejudices  of  others.  If  any 
thing  can  be  accomplished  in  the  colony  line 
I  will  meet  more  than  half  way  any  who  are 
willing  to  co-operate  with  me.  With  you 
I  think  prohibition  with  the  single  tax . 
should  be  made  the  salient  features  of  the 
colony,  while  to  your  ideas  of  vegetarianism 
I  strongly  incline,  although  in  our  mining 
companies  here  it  would  be  impiossible  to 
carry  such  theories  into  effect  on  account 
of  the  difficulty  and  increased  expense  in 
procuring  the  means. — Yours  sincerely, 
Wm.  O.  O'Neill. 

April, 


d  by  Google 


REV.  H.  S.  LAKE. 
(See  page  60.) 


d  by  Google 


fFOOD  HOrtE^EARDENjj 


DR.     HKNRV   S.    CHASE. 

The  recent  departure  from  the  visible 
life  of  this  world  on  earth  of  this  veteran 
Vegetarian  and  philantrophist  has  called 
attention  to  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
lives  in  our  current  history.  The  tran- 
sition occurred  January  nth,  1898, 
and  it  was  reported  in  the  newspapers 
that  he   died  from  pneumonia. 

In  a  letter  dated  St.  Louis,  January  13th, 
Dr.  Susanna  W.  Dodds,  his  intimate  pro- 
fessional friend,  who  was  the  dean  of  the 
Hygienic    College     in  which    Dr.     Chase 


Dr.  Henry  S.   (Pa)  Chase. 
was    the   professor    of     Dental     Surgery, 
wrote  : 

"He  was  in  his  79th  year.  I  did  not 
know  that  he  was  sick ;  and  the  illness 
must  have  been  very  brief.  He  must 
have  been  very  sick  from  the  start,  else 
he  would  have  called  Dr.  Mary  Dodds. 
She  has  always  attended  him  in  his  littte 
illnesses,  which  were  the  only  sort  he 
had.  But  ifhis  mind  was  seriously  affected 
he  may  have  given  no  directions ;  and  as 
his    sons     believe    in   drug  doctors,   they 

64 


would  no  doubt  call  one.  They  did  this 
once  when  Mrs.  Chase  was  ill,  (much  to 
the  disgust  of  Dr.  Chase,)  and  she  came 
near  dying.  The  doctor  would  not  I 
think  take  drug  medicines,  unless  he  was 
out  of  his  riglit  mind.  Just  the  other  day 
I  was  saying  I  must  make  him  a  visit  soon. 

"Dr.  Chase  was  quite  a  reformer,  and  a 
very  good  man.  His  family  had  not 
much  sympathy  with  what  they  termed 
his  peculiar  notions ;  but  he  always 
held  np  his  head  and  said  what  he  thonght. 
He  believed  in  strict  vegetarianism,  thor- 
ough hygiene,  temperance,  and  an  equal 
chance  for  all  in  the  race  of  life.  He  was 
a  great  admirer  of  Henry  George,  and  a 
strong  advocate  of  the  single  tax  theory. 
Having  a  large,  social  nature,  he  drew 
around  him  many  friends ;  and  he  spared  no 
efforts  to  make  converts,  especially  among 
the  young ;  and  though  he  has  reached  a 
good  old  age,  the  news  of  his  death  will 
be  received  with  regret," 

The  portrait  we  present  of  Dr.  Chase  was 
kindly  loaned  us  by  the  Single  Taxer  of 
Minneapolis,  a  very  able  exponent  of  the 
Henry  George  system  of  political  economy. 

Dr.  Chase  as  a  Dentbt  stood  high  and 
generously  donated  to  the  profession  inven- 
tions on  which  he  might  have  obtained 
valuable  patents.  He  was  also  the  author 
of  a  book  on  the  subject  of  Chastity  and  of 
numerous  pamphlets  and  contributions  to 
the  reform  press. 

The  St.  Louis  Globe  Democrat  devotes  two 
columns  to  Dr.  Chase  and  a  curious  story 
of  his  communicating  with  his  surviving 
friends  by  means  of  a  "  talking  table, ' '  for 
which  our  space  is  too  limited. 

We  are  assured  by  his  widow  that  Dr. 
Chase  was  a  thorough  Vegetarian  as  we 
always  understood  him  to  be.  If  this  &ct 
contributed  to  his  rapid  spiritual  advance- 
ment there  isgoodreasonforcongratulation. 

April, 


d  by  Google 


PROGRESS  IN  VEGETARIAN  S'Y  MILLS. 


The  increasing  demand  for  nut  foods  has 
rendered    it  necessary  to  provide  more  com- 
plete mills  for  their  production.      Tlie  mantt- 
ticlnrers  have   provided  a  mill   that  can  be 
attached  to  a  post  with  a  hopper  having    one 
upright  side  and  made  of  iron  plate  instead  of 
cast  iron.     The  illustration  No.    i    has  a  fly 
~        pwheel    attached    and 
is  a   very  serviceable 
miil.      The     price, 
$7.00,    does  not   in- 
clude the  post  which 
can  usually    be    ob- 
tained   cheaper  at  a 
neighboring     lumber 
yard,  or  may  in  some 
cases    be    found    al- 
ready  in     the  cellar, 
as   almost  any  stout 
post  will  answer  the 
purpose.     Without 
\  the      fly  wheel     this 
p,niill   may  be  had  for 
¥$5.00  as  seen  in  cat 


No   a. 


larger 


which  can  be  turned  by  two  persons  support- 
ed by  a  stont  wooden  frame,  as  seen  in  cttt 
No.  3,  is  valuable  for  those  who  desire  to 
commence  the  manufacture  of  nut  food  for 
sale,  or  to  prodttce  Graham  whole  wheat 
floor  for  a  neighborhood  business,  but  who 
liave  not  the  facilities  of  electric  or  other 
motor  power.  This  mill  can  be  had  for  $15.00 
without  the  wooden  frame. 

We  do  not  however  recommend  hand  power 
where  a  large  quantity,  especially  of  grain, 
has  to  be  ground,  as  it  is  much  cheaper  in 
such  case  to  use  a  motor.  The  electric  motor 
isthebest  where  the  electricity  is  supplied  at 
reasonable  rates,  as  we  presume  it  is  in  most 
cities.     It  is  the  most  convenient  to  start  and 


shut  off  the  power  there  being  no  fuel,  dust 
or  bad  smell  of  oil  or  anything  offensive  used. 
Perhaps  the  next  best  thing  to  an  electric 
motor  is  a  water-power  which  can  be  run 
wherever  there  is  a  good  pressure  of  water. 


nill 


The  gas  motor  is  also  very  good.  The  com- 
pressed air  and  also  the  kerosene  oil  motor 
can  be  had  at  moderate  cost.  There  are  also 
several  stiiall  steam  engines  appropriate  for 
this  work  and  if  anyone  wilt  describe  their 
location  and  circumstances  we  can  advise  them 
as  to  which  motor  is  best  to  introduce,  both  as 
to  economy  and  convenience. 

Cttt  No.  4  : 
sents  the  same 
as  No,  3  with 
and  loose  pi 
which  can  be  r 
power  and  for  ' 
not  less  than 
horse  power  s 
be  provided, 
mill  can   be  ha 

$20.00. 

Our  mannfac! 
have  al  so  pre 
much  larger 
costing  $5000 
$55.00  and  ( 
with  f>earing  c< 
$60.00.  All  the 
are  made  of  the 

material  with  an  eye  no.  4, 

to  strength  and  durability,  being  well  adapted 
for  long  and  continuous  service.  We  know  of 
no  business  so  profitable  with  little  capital. 
—V.  S.  A.,  1023  Foulkrod  St.,  Sta.  F..  Phila. 


d  by  Google 


E.  E.  MARTIN. 


Digitized  by  Google 


P©©B,  ji®55.B  ^^Tb  G-^^BBIH'. 


Vol.  II,  Nbw  Sbrihs,  No.  19.  JULY,    1898.  Wholb  Number  ga. 


MR.  E.  E.  MARTIN. 


OUR  first  impression  of  Mr.  H.  E. 
Martin  was  derived  from  the  fol- 
lowing letter : 
"  Olympia,  Washington,  Jan.  27.  1898. 
' '  My  dear  Brother  :  From  some  very 
kind  heart  there  has  come  to  me  a  remem- 
brancer most  royal,  a  visitor  each  month 
that  has  been  warmly  welcomed — Pood, 
HouB  &  Garden. 

"To  one  who  for  almost  a  quarter  of  « 
ceatnry,  wellaigh  single-handed  and  alone ; 
in  the  &ce  of  myriad  taunts  and  jeers  from 
sroall-souled  yet  colossal ly-conceited  indi- 
viduals, even  in  this  western  wild,  has  held 
aloft  the  pure  white  banner  of  a  bloodless 
diet,  this  magnificent  magazine  has  ever 
come  as  a  flood  of  sunshine,  dissipating 
more  fogs,  material  and  mental,  than  you 
can  guess.  Heaven's  richest  blessings  are 
invoked  in  your  behalf  every  time  that  I 
see  it,  or  think  of  your  noble  work.-tend- 
ing  towards  the  perfection  of  this  keystone 
of  reforms  that  binds  together  the  grand 
archway  through  which  all  must  pass  to 
gain  the  heights  of  humane  and  harmoni- 
ous living. 

"You  are  verily  ' working  together  with 
Him'  to  uplift,  blissfully  pardon  and  wel- 
come home  all  the  worn  and  wandering 
prodigals  from  their  Father's  house.  I  do 
not  have  to  ask  God  to  seek  out  and  bless 
you  in  this  most  essentially  Christian  work 
— He  knows  right  where  you  are — in  feet 
dwelleth  in,  and  is  ever  outworking  more 
effectually   through   you,    for  the  sublime 


end,  the  beginning  of  which  is  in  view.  I 
take  it  that  He  by  whom  the  worlds  were 
made  and  yourself  are  well  acquaint,  on 
most  intimate  terms. 

"  Ah !  Could  mankind  only  be  impressed 
with  the  thought  of  the  diet  of  Eden,  (see 
Gen.  I  29 — 30),  instead  of  the  horrible 
sacrificial  idea,  generally  condemned  by 
God's  Prophets,  so  roundly  censured  by 
grand,  old  Isaiah;  (see  Is.  i  10 — 17), 
this  planet  could  soon  be  transformed  into 
a  decent  dwelling  place  for  humanity,  where 
'  They  shall  neither  hurt  nor  destroy  in  all 
my  holy  mountain'  saith  the  Lord.     Is.  11 

"Earth  could  be  made  spelean,  kind  and 
humane  that  many  would  be  inclined  to 
forget  the  twanging  of  golden  harps  in  '  The 
sweet  by-and-by;'  for  we  would  then  have, 
in  successful  operation,  our  own  Sweet 
Here  and  Now !     I  labor  for  that. 

"My  methods  with  .the  flesheaters  may 
be  crude,  but  very  few  of  my  friends  have 
misgivings  as  to  their  originality :  For 
instance  it  gives  me  secret  pleasure  to  re- 
mark that  bard  times  are  splendid,  if  they 
prevent  people  from  making  walking 
morgues  of  themselves;  puts  a  stop  to 
making  graveyards  of  their  stomachs :  act 
as  a  human  sarcophagus  for  animal  refuse, 
etc. 

"In  this  far  western  country  we  have  to 

horrify  the  unthinking  'good'  people  along 

this  particular  line,  ere  we  can  get  them  to 

think ,  so  used  are  they  to  pioneer  ways ;  yet 

99 


d  by  Google 


when  they  once  begin  thinking,  they  have 
usually  '  met  the  enemy  and  are  ours.' 

"The  name  'Krank'  has  many,  many 
times  been  contumely  hurled  at  my  head 
or  heart  by  my  temperance  and  reform  co- 
laborers,  on  account  of  my  strenuous,  oft- 
repeated  assertion  that :  '  The  saloon  and 
the  slaughter-house  must  go  down  together 
before  the  temperance  question  can  be  fully, 
finally  solved!'  Have  persistently  defied 
them  to  produce  a  Vegetarian  sot ;  feeling, 
as  I  have  to  do,  that  the  condiments  used 
to  disguise  the  effluvia  of  decaying,  fester- 
ing fiesh,  lead,  by  graduated  steps,  to  rank 
sauces,  the  tobacco  habit;  tobaccos,  Savor- 
ed with  liquors,  (to  give  them  'tone'),  so 
many  times  inevitably  tend  toward  '  booz- 
ing, guzzling  the  poisonous  extract  of  rot- 
tenness from  the  brewery  and  the  still,  from 
out  whose  vicious  embrace  we  have  found 
it  so  very  difficult  to  woo  them.  Have  you 
known  Vegetarian  inebriates  ? 

"As  to  personal  eating  habits,  am  de- 
cidedly irregular.  Do  not  care  for  but  one 
regular  meal  per  day;  taking  that  from 
noontime  to  later  in  the  p.  m.  Can  do  my 
days'  work  before  eating  at  all — even  with 
pick  and  shovel,  and  have  to  smile  in  the 
face  of  people  who  ask  if  I  can  do  anything 
but  clerical  work  and  totally  abstain  from 
partaking  of  corpse  and  carcass.  Never 
have  that  'bottom  dropped  out  of  my  stoin- 
■M'h'  fcelinj!;. 

"  I'Voiii  1H74,  (when  I  adopted  cleanly 
livingj,  to  1884,  labored  very  hard  atrock 
work,  river- damming,  (in  a  cold  Idaho 
mountain  stream)  and  gardening.  Have  at 
times  gone  75  hours  without  a  morsel  of 
food — at  the  same  time  holding  my  own 
with  much  larger  and  stouter  men,  hoeing 
— with  no  complaint  from  an  exactingem- 
ployer  as  to  my  work. 

'■  Have  scarcely  known  what  pain  meant! 
for  more  than  two  decades,  while  previous 


to  that  date  I  rarely  felt  its  absence.  Can 
apply  myself  at  the  'case,'  orany  intricate 
clerical  work  for  a  24  or  36  hour  siege,  if 
necessity  require,  without  bother  from  '  that 
tired  feeling'  Extremes  of  heat  and  cold 
do  not  affect  me.  Never  wear  an  overcoat ; 
rarely  catch  cold  ;  easily  shook  off  if  I  do. 
Contagions  always  miss  me.  Most  impor- 
tant of  all  in  my  dietetic  change,  came  an 
entire  change  of  disposition.  From  a  fine 
flour  and  pork -stuffed,  chronically-deranged 
stomach  issued  a  disposition  like  a  coss-cut 
saw,  sure  enough.  From  a  sickly,  petulant, 
combative,  gloomy  and  especially  blood- 
thirsty boy,  to  one  who  abhors  the  taking 
of  any  life,  except  parasitic,  and  that  dis- 
patched instantly.  Where  fighting  at  the 
drop  of  the  hat  used  to  be  a  pleasure,  conld 
only  be  induced  to  assume  hostilities  on  be- 
half of  the  weak  and  abused  of  our  own 
species  or  our  poorer  (?)  relations.  ' 

' '  The  gradual ,  yet  complete  change  ftx)m 
a  pessimist  to  an  optimist ;  from  a  heartless 
hunter,  huiter,  tormenter,  torturer,  to  a 
humanitarian,  with  hope  for,  and  an  earnest 
desire  to  hinder  not  but  help  every  useful 
form  of  life  coming  frxim  the  band  of  Our 
Father- Mother  in  Heaven,  and  expecting  to 
greet  them  at  some  future  upward  curve  of 
Life''s  spiral  roadway. 

"  Concluding,  allow  me  to  say  that  while 
our  paths  widely  diverge,  they  radiate 
towards  a  common  center.  You  will  hear 
from  me  further.  Yours  for  spreading  the 
gospel  of  '  Live  and  Let  Live  !'  " 

Such  an  outburst  of  enthusiasm  naturally 
led  to  further  correspondence  and  finding 
Mr.  Martin  a  thoroughly  consciencious  as 
well  as  earnest  worker  we  concluded  topub- 
lish  both  his  remarks  and  portrait  in  the 
hope  that  his  enthusiasm  might  become  con- 
tageous  and  that  other  Vegetarians  might 
be  moved  to  do  likewise.  Mr.  Martin  has 
been  one  of  the  first  to  aid  in  the  circulation 

J«iy. 


db,  Google 


PDfOiiOiME^OARDENI 


of  our  Synopsis  by  sending  for  looo  copies 
for  enclosure  in  letters,  and  as  we  have  just 
issued  the  same  tract  in  red,  white  and 
blue  to  make  it  more  attractive  we  trust  his 
example  will  be  followed  by  a  thousand  or 
two  of  our  readers  so  that  the  Vegetarian 
Press  can  be  kept  constantly  at  work  on  this 
pioneer  tract. 

Mr.  Martin  was  the  founder  of  Spokane 
Business  College  at  Spokane  Falls,  Wash., 
that  has  about  500  students  but  he  became 
a  convert  to  Christian  Socialism  when  he 
felt  it  wrong  to  educate  sharpers  to  over- 
reach their  less  fortunate  fellow  mortals,  and 
gave  it  up.  He  is  now  engaged  in  the 
ofEce  of  State  Superintendent  of  Public 
Instruction  at  Olympia,  and  is  promoting 
the  Independent  order  of  Good  Templars, 
being  Grand  Vice  Chancellor  of  the  Grand 
Lodge  of  Washington. 

Mr.  Martin  is  also  engaged  in  distributing 
literature  calculated  to  advance  educational 
interests  in  regard  to  temperance  and  good 
morals  and  from  his  pasition  in  Olympia 
has  excellent  facilities  for  reaching  all  the 
educators  of  the  State.  His  influence  will 
tell  in  a  few  years  on  the  moral  and  intel- 
lectual status  of  the  great  North-western 
State  of  Washington . 


THE  ARMY  RATION. 
By    the   Editor. 
The   ration   supplied   to   U.   S.   soldiers 
does   not  appear  to  be  up  to  the  times  and 
is  in  fact  no  better,  if  as  good,  as   that  sup- 
plied during  the  war  of  1862 — 5.     The  gen- 
eral complaint  is  that  the  hard  tack  is  made 
by   contract  of  very  inferior    flour.      We 
need   not  publish   the  complaints  of  men 
about    "sow-belly,"    "salt  pork,"   beans, 
Ihe  "putrid"  condition    ofthemeat,  "salt 
horse"  without  enough  waterto  drink   after 
being  made  thirsty  with  salt  provisions  and 
"putrid  flesh"  and  canned  provisions"  with 
1898 


poison  lurking  wituin.  Some  of  the  mess 
pork  is  reported  to  seem  'as  if  pickled  in 
lye"  as  it  "takesthe  skin  off  the  tongues 
of  the  soldiers."  These  complaints  indi- 
cate that  modem  science  has  not  been 
applied  to  army  rations  and  the  result  will 
be  sickness  and  death  to  thousands  of  brave 
soldiers. 

Why  does  not  the  war  department  exer- 
cise as  much  care  and  employ  as  much  skill 
in  supplying  army  rations  as  in  the  supply 
of  ammunition? 

Health  foods  are  manufactured  under 
scientific  direction  at  Battle  Creek,  could  be 
supplied  to  the  army  at  but  little  if  any 
more  cost  than  the  present  inferior  ration 
of  salt  provisions  which  are  wholly  unfit, 
and  will  be  especially  destructive  of  our 
soldier  boys  in  the  climate  of  the  tropics. 
Why  does  not  the  commissary  department 
offer  a  prize  for  the  best  army  ration  to  be 
supplied  ill  paper  boxes  ready  to  be  given  to 
each  soldier  daily  ?  Does  not  humanity  de- 
mand a  good  ration  for  soldiers  ?  Do  not 
the  success  of  each  campaign  depend  large- 
ly upon  the  ration  ? 

The  N.  Y.  Times  referring  to  experiments 
by  the  sustenance  department  last  Fall  said  : 

"In  the  opinion  of  one  of  the  oflUcers  of 
the  department  there  is  really  no  strength  in 
these  beef  extracts.  This  ofiicersaid  to-day  : 
'  There  is  a  popular  fallacy  that  the  modern 
beef  extracts  which  are  prepared  and  put  up 
in  glass  jars  and  bottles  contain  an  unusual 
amount  of  nutriment  and  they  are  excellent 
strength  restorers.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it 
has  been  proven  from  investigation  that 
there  is  actually  no  strength -giving  power 
in  these  extracts,  and  the  only  good  effect 
which  they  have  on  a  sick  man  is  that  they 
have  the  power  of  stimulating  temporarily. 
These  preparations  would  not  do  in  the 
army  as  they  lack  powers  so  indespensible 
in  such  food." " 


d  by  Google 


J 


^FObUHOME^GARDEKl 


A  VEGETARIAN  ON  A  JOURNEY. 
Article  III. 


By  J.  George  Heid,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


"Can  one  be  a  consistent  Vegetarian 
when  on  a  jonniey  and  yet  satisfy  the 
appetite  ?"  If  our  perverted  taste  be  merely 
consulted,  it  njay  be  difficult  to  be  con- 
sistent. If  not  capable  of  ,coi(trolling  the 
unnatural  appetite  which  has  been  acquired 
by  wantonness  and  excesses,  for  generations, 
perhaps,  if  there  is  an  utter  inability  or  lack 
of  effurt  to  deny  the  sensual  nature  for  prin- 
ciple's  sake,  it  tuay  be  difRcult  to  satisfy  the 
so-called  appetite  while  on  a  journey,  in 
fact,  it  would  be  difficult  to  do  this  at  home 
even,  but  a  consistent  Vegetarian  can  enjoy 
the  meals  on  a  journey  and  find  plenty  to 
eat,  although  to  observe  a  strict  Vegetarian 
diet  while  on  trains,  etc.,  would  almost 
necessitate  living  exclusively  on  fruits ;  for 
one  never  knows  where  lard,  butter  or  suet 
may  have  been  used  in  preparing  cakes, 
pies,  pudilings  or  biscuits,  or  rolls  and 
bread,  and  even  in  cooking  vegetables. 
The  only  safety  in  eating  a  meal  of  cooked 
or  prepared  foods  would  lie  in  visiting  a 
\'egetarian  restaurant,  or  to  board  with  a 
Vegetarian  family.  If,  however,  to  eat  no 
meats  of  any  kind,  but  not  to  abstain  from 
eggs,  butter,  milk,  etc.,  or  dishes  containing 
these,  constitutes  a  Vegetarian,  then  it  is  an 
easy  matter  to  be  supplied  at  most  any 
restaurant  in  cities  or  towns  one  may  visit, 
and  even  the  railroad  stations  having 
lunch  stands,  can  then  amply  supply  the 
needs  of  the  traveler.  I  have  translated  a 
bill  of  of  fare  from  a  Vegetarian  restaurant 
called  "The  Fruit  Basket,"  in  Brunswick, 
Germany : 

S>hmet. 

Kt!K>— Fried.  BoLlcit  or  Scrambled— ligg  P»ncBke, 


French  Rolln.  Graham  RolU, 

PoUto  Salad,        Boiled.  Pried  or  Mashed PoUloo. 

Bread  Pudding,         Slewed  Frolls. 

Chocolate  Cocoa,  ).□««,  Milk.  German  T«, 

IiidlaD  Tea,  Kneipii'a  Malted  Coffee. 

We  use  lemon  juice  inalead  of  viueKar  la  the  preparation  of 

all  oursalada.    Out  so up<  sod  vegetable* 

Suppose  a  guest  were  to  order  from  the 
above  :  One  kind  of  soup,  three  vegetables, 
a  dish  of  eggs  or  pan-cakes,  one  kind  of 
dessert,  one  cup  of  coffee,  cocoa,  or  choco- 
late, there  would  be  served  with  the  above, 
without  extra  cost,  bread  or  rolls  and  but- 
ter, and  one  kind  of  potatoes.  This  would 
cost  about  one  mark  and  fifty  pfennnige 
(36  cents).  However,  should  one  wish  to 
economize,  he  could  take  dinner  at  a  cost 
of  80  pfennige  (nearly  20  cents),  which 
would  give  the  guest  soup,  eggs  or  pan-cake, 
two  kinds  of  vegetables,  dessert,  and  bread 
or  rolls.  This  would  not  include  coffee, 
cocoa  or  any  beverage  whatever,  because  it 
is  not  considered  according  to  the  rules  of 
hygiene  to  drink  with  meals,  and  there  are 
many  guests  at  these  restaurants  who  are 
not  \'egetarians  from  principle,  but  they 
obser\e  a  Vegetarian  diet,  having  been  ad- 
vised to  do  so  by  their  physicians.  These 
last-named  dinners  can  be  had  by  tlie 
month  lor  twenty  marks  ($4. 80),  costing  a 
trifle  less  than  sixteen  cents  per  meal. 

There  are  many  more  articles  to  select 
from  at  tliese  Vegetarian  restaurants,  such  as 
mushrooms  of  various  kinds,  all  kinds  of 
fruits  and  vegetables  in  season,  or  il  one 
wishes  to  pay  tor  them,  things  out  of  season 
too. 

In  Cologne,  a  Vegetarian  restaurant  had 
suppers  a  la  carle,  and  dinners  both  a  la 
carle  and  table  d'hoie.  These  last  were  so 
arranged  that  one  could  order  a  50  pfennige. 
Bo  pfennige,  or  one  mark  meal,  (12  cents, 
20  cents  and  24  cents).  The  twelve  cent 
meal  would  consist  of  one  kind  of  soup, 
eggs,    bread,    butter  and   coffise  ;  with  the 

J<iiy 


d  by  Google 


iFObflHONE^GAROii 


20  cent  meal,  would  be  served  in  addition 
to  the  above,  one  kind  of  vegetables,  while 
with  the  24  cent  meal  would  be  served  two 
kinds  of  vegetables  and  one  kind  of  dessert. 
This  restaurant  was  one  of  the  finest  in 
Germany. 

Suppers  in  German  Vegetarian  restaurants 
are  always  served  a  la  carte.  Breakfasts  are 
not  served  in  regular  Vegetarian  restau- 
rants there,  unless  run  in  connection  with  a 
hotel,  for  it  is  customary  to  take  breakfast 
where  one  rooms.  In  most  hotels,  the  cost 
of  breakfast  is  added  to  the  room,  while  in 
rooming  with  private  families  the  breakfast 
called  "Cafe  complet,"  is  included  with  the 
room.  It  generally  consists  merely  of 
coffee  and  rolls,  sometimes  there  is  Swiss 
cheese  in  addition  to  the  butter  for  the  rolls. 

Here  and  there  a  little  advertising  enter- 
prise is  shown  by  the  keepers  of  Vegetarian 
restatirants ;  for  instance :  in  Stuttgart, 
Germany,  a  proprietor  of  one  of  the  leading 
Vegetarian  restaurants  issues  a  neat  city 
map,  showing  the  location  of  the  Post  Office, 
Railroad  Station  and  other  places  of  import- 
ance, and  the  convenient  proximity  of  his 
restaurant  to  these  places. 

Many  have  paper  napkins  very  tastefully 
gotten  up  with  the  addresses  of  the  different 
Vegetarian  restaurants  in  German  cities 
printed  on  them,  with  illustrations  of  fruits 
and  vegetables  in  the  four  comers;  some,  a 
handsomely  illustrated  centerpiece  of  a 
cornucopia,  or  a  garden. 

Extracts  are  printed  around  the  border 
something  like  the  following ; 


"To  un  Tour  iritnn  p*!ti  >Dd  «•• 

t>0  not  forg«loe«tqu)tei1ow." 
"Hot  food  *Bd  drink  to  toothache  wink. 
Food  Md  drink  hot  Ht  each  mnl, 
Soon  the  bcalih  of  (be  uonxch  Meal." 

The  Vegetarian   restaurants    bear   such 


names  as  "Pomona,"  "Ceres,"  "Thaly- 
sis,"  "Our  Vegetarian  Home,"  "Quisiana," 
"The  Melon,"  "The  Fmit  Basket,"  etc. 

Many  Vegetarian  restaurants  have  bath 
houses  in  connection,  as  it  makes  it  con- 
venient for  those  who  diet  themselves  by 
order  of  physicians,  who  also  prescribe 
baths  as  a  rule.  A  large  one  of  this 
description  exists  in  Madgeburg.  Even 
many  physicians  in  Germany  who  are  not 
themselves  Vegetarians,  insist  on  their 
patients  observing  a  strict  Vegetarian  diet. 

How  consistent  Vegetarianism  is  lived  up 
to  in  some  parts  of  Germany  may  be  seen 
by  the  method  of  a  Vegetarian  hotel  in 
Dresden,  which  has  bedding  of  linen  and 
cotton,  the  covers  of  a  sort  of  Vegetarian 
fibre,  allowing  no  feathers,  blanket  nor  hair 
mattresses,  in  fact,  eliminating  everything 
that  animals  would  have  to  contribute. 
Many  regret  that  a  suitable  substitute  has 
not  been  found  for  leather  in  the  manufact- 
ure of  shoes,  etc. 

■'How  can  you  keep  op  strength  without 
eating  meat?"  I  am,  as  you  see,  a  living 
evidence  of  what  strength  is  provided  by 
fhiits  and  cereals,  as  I  can  walk  with  any 
ordinary  pedestrian,  and  at  a  march,  tire 
most  any  one  living  on  meat,  unless  he  be  a 
professional  sprinter,  and  as  for  supplying 
brain  food  and  strength  in  one's  studies,  I 
was  the  only  Vegetarian  in  the  chemical 
school  of  the  beet  sugar  industry;  ask  any 
of  the  professors  how  my  rating  compared 
with  the  others,  for  my  modesty  forbids  my 
making  the  comparison. 

My  experiences  teach  me  that  a  strict 
Vegetarian— especially  if  he  lives  princi- 
pally on  fhiits — can  get  along  with  very 
little  drink,  since  the  food  contains  no 
seasoning  to  excite  thirst.  This  is  a  great 
convenience  where  one  has  occasion  to 
march  where  no  water  is  convenient. 

'03 


d  by  Google 


iFOODHOMEv^^GARDENl 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


roOiestBUt  St.)   Phllndelphiii. 
V  B.  CLUBB.  Edllor, 


them  exceedingly  valuable  as  food  for 
travelers,  soldiers  and  sailors  and  when 
combined  with  whole  wheat  or  Graham 
flour  become  an  ideal  food  for  alt  who  go 
away  from  home. 


SutwcHptioii,  socbi., 


The  subject  of  good  wholesome  rations  is 
of  immense  importance  to  the  success  of  our 
army  and  navy.  The  Greeks  and  Romans 
won  their  greatest  laurels  on  plain  whole- 
some fruit  and  farinacious  food. 


Mr.  J.  George  Held  will  continue  his 
articles  on:  "A  Vegetarian  on  a  Journey" 
and  his  next  article  will  contain  an  account 
of  the  Vegetarian  restaurants  in  other  coun- 
tries of  Kurope  besides  Germany. 


The  toughest  and  most  enduring  creature 
employed  in  the  war  is  the  army  mule  and 
he  lives  on  forage  and  grain  when  he  can 
get  them,  and  eats  up  the  wooden  sides  of 
his  wagon  when  he  cannot  get  coarse 
forage. 

The  Misses  Richards  of  South  Bethlehem, 
Penna.  have  opened  a  house  for  Vegetarian 
Boaders  in  that  fine  old  town.  Those  who 
desire  to  spend  their  vacation  among  the 
mountains  would  And  this  an  excellent 
opportunity. 


We  have  appealed  to  the  Health  Food 
producers  of  Battle  Creek,  Mich.,  to  fur- 
nish a  model  scientific  ration  for  soldiers 
and  sailors.  We  understand  they  are  pro- 
ducing biscuits,  crackers  and  wafers  in 
which  nut  food  is  employed  for  shortening. 


The  nitrogenous  elements  of  nuts    and 
their  compact    nutritive   chanicter    render 


One  reason  why  soldiers  become  life- 
long invalids  after  a  war  is  their  consump- 
tion of  diseased  pork  and  beef  which  either 
kill  the  soldier  by  trichinosis  in  a  few  pain- 
ful years,  with  the  salt  pork,  or  produce  a 
lingering  consumption  from  tuberculous 
beef.     See  p.  loi. 


In  view  of  the  success  in  Europe* and 
America  in  cycling  and  other  athletic  exer- 
cises of  the  vegetable  and  fruit  eaters  there 
need  be  no  fear  of  our  soldiers  losing 
strength  by  taking  pure  grain  and  nut  foods 
instead  of  the  horrid  fat  pork  so  full  of 
disease  germs  as  it  is  welt  known  to  he. 
See  articles  from  the  Scientific  American. 

The  close  of  Franklin  Rowell's  earthly 
career  took  place  May  24,  1898  at  the  age 
of  70,  at  Tryon,  N.  C.  He  was  a  close 
student ;  a  good  penman,  a  clear  and  forci- 
ble writer  and  above  all  a  Vegetarian. 
His  musical  talent  is  highly  spoken  of.  He 
traveled  over  many  states  to  find  a  place 
suitable  for  a  Vegetarian  Colony  but  gener- 
ally found  out  objections  which  prevented 
him  from  makinga  selection  of  any  one  lo- 
cation and  he  was  honest  in  a  candid 
expression  of  his  opinions. 

Attention  is  called  to  the  advertisement 
of  the  New  Vegetarian  Quarterly.  In  order 
to  obtain  the  2nd  class  postal  privilege  for 
this  periodical  it  will  be  necessary  to  present 
a  good  list  of  subscribers.  So  our  friends 
will  please  send  subscriptions  without  delay 
to  enable  us  to  save  in  tlie  item  of  postage. 
We  have  staited  with  4  pages  but  hope  to 
increase  to  eight  if  encouraged  t^  subscrip- 
Joly 


db,  Google 


IF0ODH0ME#GARDEN| 


tions.  We  hope  every  reader  will  order  a 
supply  of  these  little  Postscripts  and  never 
send  a  letter  without  enclosing  one  or  more. 


TUBERCULOSIS  CATTLE. 
The  Scientific  American  gives  the  follow- 
ing abbatoir  statistics :  In  Berlin  1 2  per 
cent  of  the  cattle  slaughtered  are  tubercu- 
lous: Dresden  14  4;  Upper  Selesea  9.5; 
Durham  18.7  ;  Midlothian  20;  London  25  ; 
New  York  20.  No  wonder  so  many  peo- 
ple are  dying  of  consumption. 


A  "MYSTERY"  EXPLAINED. 
Dr.  Mackay,  Dallas',  Texas,  in  giving  an 
account  of  the  visit  of  Rev.  James  Clark, 
for  publication  in  the  Dallas  Herald,  re- 
marked that  the  mystery  about  these 
people  (Bible  Christians")  is  in  their  calling 
themselves  Christians  in  place  of  humani- 
tarians— the  very  antithesis  of  each  other. 
It  is  not  surprising  in  view  of  ihe  partiality 
to  blood-shed  shown  by  many  professing 
Christians,  that  this  idea  should  arise,  but 
the  early  Christians  of  the  Bible  were 
bumanitarians,  and  Bible  Christiaos  now 
seek  to  re-establish  Bible  Christianity  as 
exemplified  by  Paul,  who  declared  "If  meat 
make  my  brother  to  offend.  I  will  eat  no 
flesh  while  the  world  standeth." — 1  Cor. 
VIII.  13. 


small  drove,  and  when  the  offal  of  this 
trichinosis  hog  is  fed  to  hogs  which  are 
raised  upon  the  grounds  the  latter  cannot 
escape  infection  with  trichinse.  The 
slaughter  houses  are  over-run  with  rats  ; 
the  rats  feed  o  1  the  offal  and  they  cannot 
escape  the  infection  and  become  transmit- 
ters of  the  disease  to  hogs  and  dogs  that 
catch  them.  The  doctor  conc"ludes  tliat 
"every  slaughter  house  is  a  center  of 
disease  for  the  surrounding  country  spread- 
ing trichinosis,  echinococcus  disease,  gid, 
wire  worm  and  other  troubles  caused  by 
animal  parasite  including  tuberculosis,  hog 
cholera,  swine  plague  and  other  bacterial 
diseases."  Our  remedy  is  the  only  sure 
one :  Do  not  touch  the  slaughtered  animals. 


SCIENCE  &  SLAUGHTER  HOUSES. 
The  Sdettlific  American  publishes  an  ar- 
ticle on  "The  Slaughter  House  in  Relation 
to  Disease ' '  and  shows  that  slaughter  houses 
according  to  the  Afediatl  Record,  are  being 
investigated  and  horrid  discoveries  are 
being  made.  It  also  quotes  Ch.  Wardell 
Stiles,  Ph.  D.,  who  declares  that  "every 
slaughter  house  is  from  the  very  nature  of 
things  a  center  of  disease."  That  some  of 
the  animals  are  surely  diseased.  At  least 
one  of  the  hogs  has  trichinosis  even   in  a 


IS  CHRISTIANITY  A  RELIGION  OF 
SLAUGHTER? 
The  Christian  Herald  illustrated  its 
Thanksgiving  number  by  a  colored  pict- 
ure with  a  vegetable  and  fruit  border, 
but  its  picture  contained  a  barrel  of  the 
dead  bodies  of  turkeys  and  ten  others  slung 
on  shoulders  or  being  handed  over  by  butch- 
ers. Inside  are  illustrations  ,of  a  turkey 
"ready  tobe  served."  Also  a  picture  of  a 
flock  of  live  turkeys  and  the  editor  of  the 
Herald  choosing  which  shall  be  selected  for 
the  slaughter,  and  there  a  girl  with  a  switch 
and  three  boys  hunting  down  the  poor 
frightened  turkeys  selected  for  killing.  The 
last  picture  is  a  dead  turkey  carried  to  a 
poor  widow  in  a  home  of  poverty.  The  let- 
ter-press accompanying  gives  an  account  of 
the  editor  of  the  Christian  Herald  presenting 
100  turkeys  to  the  Bowery  Mission  for  dis- 
tribution among  poor  families.  We  have  no 
doubt  this  is  all  well-meant  by  the  worthy 
editor,  but  it  is  to  be  regretted  that  the 
Christian  religion  is  thus  made  to  appear  a 
religion  of  blood  ?nd  slaughter  instead  ofa 
religion  of  love  and  mercy.  :' 

105 


d  by  Google 


SUPER-COOKING. 

On  receipt  of  March  issue  of  Food  I  was 
much  interested  in  Mrs.  Gaskell's  testi- 
mony relating  to  starch  foods.  I  having 
myself  attempted  to  subsist  for  many  years 
on  a  diet  of  cereal  and  other  starch  foods  and 
and  yet  never  attaining  good  health,  I  was 
almost  convinced  that  a  return  to  flesh  food 
would  be  a  wise  plan.  Dr.  Densniore's 
Natural  Food  teaching  me  my  error  I  found 
immediate  relief  in  abstaining  from  starch 
and  freely  using  nuts  and  fruit.  I  also  en- 
joyed entire  freedom  from  colds,  a  severe 
attack  of  which  I  was  subject  to  when  ex- 
posed to  any  sudden  change  of  weather 
causing  a  fall  of  temperature. 

During  the  past  year  I  have  many  times 
tried  a  return  to  bread  and  on  each  occasion 
have  in  a  few  days  developed  the  early 
symptoms  of  a  cold  and  once  carried  the 
experiment  far  enough  to  produce  one  of 
my  old  time  complaints.  In  making  these 
tests  my  only  change  of  diet  consisted  in 
partaking  of  toasted  bread  or  cakes  and 
syrup  for  breakfast. 

So  thoroughly  have  I  gone  into  this  mat- 
ter that  I  am  now  convinced  that  the  starch 
foods,  prepared  as  we  are  accustomed  to 
have  them,  are  in  some  way  the  cause  of 
our  influenza  troubles.  I  am  pleased  to 
learn  from  Mrs.  Gaskell's  experience  that 
the  starch  foods  can  be  prepared,  and  even 
bread  made,  in  such  a  way  as  to  avoid  the 
evils  I  have  attributed  to  them  when  used 
in  the  usual  ways ;  for  I  cannot  well  recon- 
cile myself  to  noi  can  I  afford  the  loss  of 
flesh  due  to  this  abstinence.  Will  Mrs. 
Gaskell  kindly  tell  us  how  bread  is  to  be 
made  super-cooked  ? — A.  B.  Brolly,  Sara- 
toga, Cal. 
io6 


RECIPES. 

Peanut  Beverage. — Brown  shelled  pea- 
nuts as  you  would  coffee,  hull  and  grind  in 
V.  S.  Mill.  Use  J^  cup  of  the  ground  nuts 
to  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  dissolving  the 
peanuts  in  some  of  the  water  before  putting 
on  to  boil.  Boil  lo  minutes,  strain  and 
serve. 

Home-made  Nuttose. — i  cup  ground  pea- 
nuts, y^  cup  browned  flour,  season  with  a 
little  salt,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  boil 
until  thick.  Place  in  a  mold  and  let  stand 
in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until  dry. 
To  be  eaten  cold ;  cut  in  slices  for  the  table. 

Olive  Cake. — Moisten  cracked  wheat,  let 
stand  a  few  hours  until  the  moisture  is 
equal  through  it.  Mix  %  as  much  dried 
and  seeded  olives  by  measure  and  run 
through  a  vegetable  cutter  twice ;  roll  out 
>i^  in.  thick,  cut  into  shape  and  dry. 

Date  Cake. — Make  same  as  above  only 
put  in  chopped  dates  instead  of  olives. 

From  ■'  Helpful  HinU"  hy  Albert  Bromlbent 

Brown  Gravy. — Melt  an  ounce  of  butter 
in  a  saucepan  stir  in  a  dessertspoonful  of 
white  flour  till  mixture  browns.  Add  sea- 
soning to  taste;  pour  boiling  or  potato 
water  on  till  the  proper  thickness  is  obtain- 
ed ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil. 

Fig  Pudding. — Put  i  lb.  bread  crumbs 
in  a  basin,  melt  2  oz.  butter  and  mix.  add 
%  lb.  figs,  cut  in  small  pieces,  i  teacup  of 
sugar,  beat  two  eggs  and  mix  all  together 
with  a  spoon,  add  milk  or  water,  and  mix  to 
the  consistency  of  a  thick  batter ;  steam  in 
a  basin  in  the  usual  way  three  hours.  Lem- 
on rind  grated  is  a  great  improvement. 
Eggs  may  be  omitted  if  desired. 

Lentil  Rissoles. — Wash  2  teacups  lentils 
and  I  teacup  rice,  chop  i  onion,  scrape  and 
cut    I    small    carrot,    put  all  together  in  a 


db,  Google 


>FOOD  mnE^  GARDENlOSi 


slewpan,  cover  with  water,  and  cook  gently 
I  boar,  adding  more  water  as  required, 
stirring  occasionally;  the  mixture  must  be 
stiff  When  cooked,  turn  out  to  cool,  then 
form  into  rolls.  Flour  with  wholemeal, 
thinly      Fry  till  brown. 

Tomato  Omelet,  (No  eggs) — Stew  i  pi. 
of  tomatoes,  and  season.  Stir  in  sufficient 
cracker  crumbs  to  make  it  like  a  soft  dough. 
Turn  into  a  hot  buttered  omelet  pan,  cook 
very  slowly  until  a  light  crust  forms,  then 
fold  over  and  turn  out. 

Sandwiches. — Cut  ver>  thin  slices  of  bran 
bread,  spread  with  schmierkase,  and  put 
raspbenTies  on  it,  then  the  other  slice  of 
bread ;  these  are  very  delicate  and  pleasing 
for  any  one  fond  of  schmierkase. 

Frozen  Slrawl>erries. — After  carefully 
stemming,  lightly  rinse  i  qt.  of  strawberries. 
W;ish  them  thoroughly  and  add  the  juice  of 
3  lemons  and  i  lb.  of  granulated  sugar. 
Set  them  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour, 
then  add  i  qt  of  water  and  place  in  an  ice 
cream  freezer  and  freeze. 
PURK    FOOD    AND    HAPPY   HOMES. 

Your  inspiring  publication  Food,  Home 
»  Garden  for  May  has  just  arrived,  and  I 
could  not  resist  the  inclination  to  tell  you 
how  well  pleased  I  am  with  its  monthly 
less-jns  in  living.  Though  1  have  been  an 
abstainer  from  a  meat  diet  for  se^-eral  years 
I  have  but  recently  become  a  reader  of 
Vegetarian  literature.  From  study  and 
observation  I  learned  to  regard  meat  eating 
as  not  only  unnecessary,  but  positively  in- 
jurious and  demoralizing.  Being  thus 
convinced  I  gradually  discarded  meat  and 
all  its  products  from  my  table,  until  to-day 
no  kind  of  animal  substance  minister  to  our 
appetite.  The  mere  smell  of  meat  is  odious 
to  me  now.  and  I  never  pass  a  butcher  shop 
without  having  to  turn  my  head  and  hold 
my  breath . 
JS98 


I  believe  we  have  the  ideal  location  for 
Vegetarianism.  Indeed  a  person  could  al- 
most live  upon  the  wild  berries  that  grow 
in  great  profusion  here.  We  have  wild 
gooseberries,  currants,  blackberries,  rasp- 
berries, salnionbemes  and  numerous  other 
minor  kinds. 

Two  years  ago  I  retired  from  editorial 
work  and  took  up  the  more  pleasant  and 
peaceful  work  of  a  fruit  grower.  It  is  a 
constant  delight  to  watch  Nature  in  all  its 
moods  and  to  study  the  needs  of  and  minis- 
ter to  every  growing  tree  aud  shrub.  I 
think  Nature's  finest  poem  is  a  blooming 
apple  orchard.  I  wish  I  could  have  taken 
a  "snap  shot"  of  one  of  my  favorite  apple 
trees,  while  in  full  bloom,  for  those  readers 
of  Food,  Home  &  Garden  who  do  not 
have  the  opportunity  of  witnessing  such  a 
glorious  manifestation,  but  even  then  they 
could  not  have  enjoyed  the  ineffable  sweet- 
ness which  accompanied  its  ocularbeauty. 
It  was  truly  a  sight  to  behold,  with  its 
great  spreading  arms  of  snowy  sweetness. 

I  enjoy  reading  letters  from  our  friends 
all  over  the  world,  telling  of  their  efforts  in 
the  direction  of  a  better  life ;  for  that  is 
what  time  Vegetarianism  means.  Let  us 
hear  from  more  of  our  co-norkers.  It  is 
inspiring  and  encouraging.  Yours  for  pure 
food,  happy  homes  and  green  gardens. — 
L.  E.  kader,  Olalla,  Wash. 
BEST   WAY  TO    MAKE  LEMONADE. 

The  best  lemonade  is  made  by  boiling 
sugar  and  water  together  and  adding  the 
lemon  juice  after  it  is  cold.  Use  i  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  quart  of  water;  add  the  juice 
of  six  lemons  and  the  desired  quantity  of 
water  at  serving  time.  'Pineapple  lemonade 
may  be  made  by  boiling  together  i  quart  of 
water,  i  pound  of  sugar  and  the  grated  rind 
of  I  lemon  for  5  minutes.  Strain:  when 
cold  add  the  juice  of  6  lemons,  i  pineapple, 
pared  &  picked  into  particles&  1  qt.  water. 
107 


d  by  Google 


IFOOD  HOUEv^^'GARDENI 


THE  SCIKNCE  OF  CORRECT  LIVING. 
By  T.  K.  Longshore. 

The  structure  and  tissues  of  the  human 
body  are  composed  of  certain  nutrient  ele- 
ments found  in  many  vegetables,  fruits  and 
roots,  in  just  such  quantities  and  propor- 
tions necessary  for  human  alimentation. 
They  contain  tlie  nutritious  and  innutri- 
tious  in  the  proper  combination  to  answer 
every  healthy  need  of  the  organism. 
Science  and  art  have  enabled  man  to  ana- 
lyze and  to  separate  th';  simples  in  these 
vegetable  compounds,  and  sugar  is  a  staple 
.  article  of  diet  as  one  of  the  results.  If  there 
is  a  deficiency  of  sugar  in  some  of  the  more 
acid  fruits  we  use,  it  may  be  added  in  mod- 
eration without  any  disadvantage  or  serious 
violation  of  a  dietetic  law. 

Sugar,  starch,  albumen,  fibrine  and  lime 
being  among  the  leading  and  essential  ele- 
ments of  the  animal  organism,  with  traces 
of  other  mineral  and  vegetable  properties, 
which  a  properly  selected  diet  furnishes  in 
a  just  proportion  or  sufficient  quantity  to 
meet  every  healthy  organic  need.  Take 
for  example  salt  which  chemistry  pro- 
nounces an  ' '  innutrious  and  indigestible 
mineral  poison"  taken  any  other  way  into 
the  vegetable  kingdom,  and  placed  in  those 
foods,  it  becomes  a  virulent  foreign  body, 
not  so  fatal  as  to  produce  much  painful  or 
apparent  injury  at  the  time,  except  when 
taken  in  an  unusual  quantity  it  produces 
enicsis  and  its  prostrating  effects.  It  is 
administered  successfully  often  foi  that  es- 
pecial-purpose,  the  stomach  revolting  and 
rejecting  tlie  poison  from  its  domain. 

Take  the  use  of  those  popular  beverages 
tea  and  coffee,  wlrich  science  has  decided 
are  chiefly  poisons,  with  scarcely  a  trace  in 
tliem  of  any  nutrient  element :  they  are  tak- 
en entirely  for  theeff'ect  the  poisonous  prop- 
erties they  contain  have  upon  the  ufrves 
and  brain.     They  produce  a  slight  uarcot- 


izing  irritating  and  exhilerating  effect, 
exciting  a  belief  that  they  are  a  refreshing 
nutrient  and  strengthening  aliment  to  the 
nervous  structures.  When  in  fact  it  is  the 
slow,  slightly  irritating  poison  of  the  theine 
and  cafiine  they  contain  disturbing  the 
healthy  nerves  that  causes  the  exhilerating 
sensation  which  is  mistaken  for  an  increase 
of  ner\'e  power  for  the  misguided  victim. 
The  tannic  acid  in  these  beverages  has  pre- 
maturely deranged  and  destroyed  the 
healthy,  normal  action  of  the  liver  and 
kidneys  and  sent  millions  to  premature 
graves.  These  glands  are  filters  to  elinii- 
uate  from  the  blood  the  impurities  from 
worn  out  tissues  and  other  Unhealthy  sub- 
stances from  errors  in  the  choice  of  foods. 
But  when  a  stream  of  poison  is  thrown  into 
the  stomach  through  the  daily  use  of  tea  and 
coffee,  these  glands  are  overtaxed  and  their 
integrity  destroyed.  The  tannic  acid  act- 
ing through  a  long  period  on  their  delicate 
sensitive  structures,  so  changes  the  fibers, 
by  the  process  of  tanning  and  hardening 
their  tissues,  and  deranging  the  function, 
that  they  can  no  longer  filter  the  impurities 
from  the  blood,  so  that  fluid  goes  its  rounds 
in  the  circulation  without  being  purified 
carrying  the  debris  and  disease  to  every 
part  of  the  body. 

The  weaker  organs  feel  the  injury  first  in 
acute  disturbances.  Then  the  whole  sys- 
tem is  affected  with  weakness  producing 
languor,  depression  and  an  adversion  to 
activity.  There  is  a  shrinking  ol  the  mus- 
cles and  falling  away  of  the  flesh  with  a  hag- 
gard, wan,  cadavorouB  complexion  and  a 
decline  of  power. 

The  camivora  sticks  to  his  flesh  foods,  his 
salt  and  his  poison  beverages,  eating  and 
drinking  and  torturing  himself  to  his  pre- 
mature grave,  dying  like  a  saint  and  hero, 
a  devotee  to  his  blind  devotion  to  these  bles- 
sed beverages  and  irritants. 

July. 


Digiri; 


db,  Google 


f 


RDEIN 


N.  CAROLINA  FOR  STRAWBERRIES. 

North  Carolina  is  coming  to  the  front  in 
strawberry  culture.  The  black,  moist 
lands  of  the  coast  being  specially  favorable 
to  the  production  of  strawberries  in  par- 
ticular and  the  farmers  are  reaping  a  rich 
harvest  of  this  luscious  fruit.  In  England 
the  Carolina  Strawberry  had  a  high  repu- 
tation fifty  years  ago. 

THE    EXPOSITION   OF    1899. 

The  Philadelphia  Commercial  Museum 
is  preparing  to  hold  a  National  Exposition 
in  Philadelphia,  in  1899,  of  American 
Products  and  Manufacturies,  especially 
suited  for  export.  Its  museums  on  Fourth 
St.,  in  Philadelphia,  are  devoted  to  foreign 
products  and  giving  information  calculated 
to  aid  dealers  and  manufacturers  to  select 
from  foreign  sources  what  they  may  require 
in  the  prosecution  of  their  business.  We 
think  the  proposed  Exposition  will  be  a 
good  opportunity  for  the  Health  Food  Man- 
nfacturers  and  Vegetarian  Societies,  Horti- 
culturists, Seedsmen,  Florists,  Fruit  Grow- 
ers to  exhibit  their  products  and  hold 
conferences  in  the  promulgation  of  ad- 
vanced views.  Mr.  W.  P.  Wilson,  Direct- 
or, 2X%  S.  Fourth  St..  Philada. 

THK  PECOS  VALLEY.  N.    M. 

The  Pocos  River  Valley  of  New  Mexico; 
the  land  of  sunshine !  I  have  spent  some 
little  time  there  lately ;  so  I  speak  of  what 
I  have  seen,  not  from  what  is  advertised. 
The  invalid  and  rest  seeker,  and  even  Veg- 
etarian Colonizers  cannot  fail  to  find  here 
everything  needful  to  health  and  success. 
It  is  an  ideal  climate ;  where  one  can  enjoy 
constant  open  air  the  year  through.  The 
fruits  of  California,  equal  in  size  and  qual- 
ity, are  grown  by  irrigation.     The  soil  in 


Pecos  Valley  is  unexceptionally  fertile, 
accessable  to  all  points  by  the  Pecos  Valley 
R.  R.  I  remembered,  when  there,  the 
many  inducements  placed  before  Vegetari- 
ans of  America  for  colonization  in  different 
parts  of  the  South  and  South-west  and  de- 
termined to  lift  my  pen  in  praise  of  this, 
and  would  be  glad  to  answer  any  questions 
from  enquirers.  Indeed  it  is  humane  that 
the  sick  and  well  should  be  informed  where 
the  sun  shines  every  day  of  the  year : 
where  rain  and  snow  do  not  fall  and  the  cy- 
clone is  not.  This  valley  lies  in  the  central 
part  of  New  Mexico:  the  White  and  the 
Gaudulupe  mountains  are  in  sight. — Mrs. 
M.  F.  B.  Smith,  1611  17th  St.,  West 
Superior,  Wis. 

VACANT  LOT     IMPROVEMENT. 

No  municipal  improvement  next  to  well 
paved  streets,  would  do  so  much  to  improve 
the  health  and  appearance  of  cities  and 
villages  as  the  compulsary  improvement  of 
all  vacant  lots.  Among  the  advantages  of 
such  legislation  would  be : 

I — Giving  employment  to  the  un-eniploy- 
ed  who  become  chargeable  to  the  munici- 
pality. 2 — All  undrained  lots  that  are  now 
sources  of  sickness  and  disease  would  be- 
come promotive  of  liealth.  p, — All  adjuin- 
iiig  real  estate  as  well  as  the  lots  iniprovid 
would  become  more  valuable  and  attractive 
to  home  seekers,  4 — The  general  atmos- 
phere of  cities  and  towns  would  be  greatly 
improved.  5 — The  beauty  and  attractive- 
ness of  both  urban  and  suburban  locations 
would  be  increased  fer  beyond  the  cost  of 
such  improvements.  6 — A  supply  of  fresli 
vegetables  and  fruit  in  localities  now  de- 
pendent on  markets  supplied  from  distant 
sources  would  become  possible. 

109 


d  by  Google 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  LIME. 

Jas.  L.  Duncan,  lectoring  fanners  pn 
lime,  says : 

Let  ns  look  at  some  of  the  more  import- 
ant effects  of  lime  on  thesoil.  I — ^Wemay 
notice  that  it  supplies  the  plant  with  food,  i. 
e.,  it  has  just  the  same  function  to  perform 
as  nitrogen,  phosphate  and  potash  in  this 
respect. 

2. — Lime  sweetens  sour  land  and  renders 
harmless  certain  compounds  of  iron,  etc. 
When  we  speak  of  land  being  sonr.  we 
mean  it  contains  some  acid  body.  When 
lime  comes  in  cpntact  with  an  acid  body  it 
neutralizes  it  or  renders  it  harmless. 

3' — Lime  causes  the  more  rapid  decom- 
position of  organic  matter  in  the  soil.  The 
organic  portion  of  a  soil  is  the  part  of  a  soil 
which  disappears  when  we  bum  it — it  is 
simply  the  remains  of  former  animal  and 
vegetable  matter — while  the  portion  which 
will  not  burn  is  called  the  inorganic  or 
mineral  matter. 

4. — Lime  sets  potash  free  from  the  mineral 
portion  of  the  soil.  Some  sQils  contain  a 
large  quantity  of  potash,  but  it  is  not  in  a 
fonn  in  which  it  can  be  of  service  to  the 
plant.  One  of  the  effects  of  lime  is  to  set 
part  of  this  potash  free  from  the  combina- 
tions in  which  it  exists,  and  convert  it  into 
a  valuable  manure. 

5- — Lime  makes  stiff  soils  to  be  more 
easily  wrought.  This  is  well  known  to 
every  practical  farmer. 

6. — Lime  prevents,  or  at  least  minimizes, 
diseajie,  such  as  finger- and -toe  in  turnips. 

7. — Lime  assists  in  the  process  of  nitrifica- 
tion, or.  as  we  might  put  it,  assists  in  the 
production  of  nitrate  in  the  soil  ;  and  this  is 
what  I  consider  the  most  important  work 
lime  has   to  perform  in  the  soil. — Farmer's 


ROSES  FOR  ALL  SUMMER. 

It  is  easy  to  have  rosea  during  the  month 
of  June,  while  the  rose-tide  is  fhlly  on.  and 
in  many  a  quaint  old  garden,  the  first  har- 
binger of  the  rose  season,  following  close  in 
the  wake  of  the  lilacs,  is  the  old-foshioned 
Yellow  Briar,  just  as  beautiful  to-day,  in  its 
wealth  of  glittering  gold,  as  it  was  in  days 
of  yore, — those  quiet,  peaceful  days  when 
the  fragrant  Sweet  Briar  and  the  spicy  Cin- 
namon rose  held  so  warm  a  place  in  the 
heart,  and  so  large  a  place  in  the  garden. 
These,  with  the  Scotch  Briars,  were  early 
bloomers  and  very  hardy.  As  their  season 
began  to  wane,  the  Provence  and  the  dark 
velvety  Damask,  with  other  hardy  June 
roses,  took  up  the  thread  iu  the  lovely,  rose- 
hued  woof  of  June  and  wrought  their  beau- 
tiful mantle  over  many  a  riotous  mass  in 
tangled  nook  and  comer.  But  their  season 
was  all  too  brief,  and,  once  it  was  closed,  a 
long  twelve  months  must  needs  roll  by 
before  roses  come  again. 

The  Hybrid  Perpetuals  of  our  gardens 
have  opened  up  a  more  enduring  field  of 
beauty ;  and  while  they  do  noi  bloom  with 
the  constancy  of  the  Tea  roses,  they  are 
more  imposing  while  they  do  bloom. 

Culture  is  all  in  all  with  these  roses.  A 
Hybrid  which,  in  common  garden  soil,  ts 
left  to  shift  for  itself,  may  perhaps  never 
yield  more  than  its  Jane  crop  of  flowers ; 
but  keep  the  soil  well  enriched — it  cannot 
be  too  rich — keep  it  stirred  and  mellow,  and 
do  not  allow  the  plant  to  stop  growing,  and 
note  the  result.  This  is  the  only  way  to 
bring  out  the  good  points,  for  the  flowers  are 
formed  on  the  new  wood.  Given  a  well- 
drained  bed.  from  eighteen  inches  to  two 
feet  deep,  under  above  treatment,  the  plants 
of  this  class  of  roses  will  make  a  surprising 
growth  of  wood  and  yield  the  same  propor- 
tion of  noble  flowers. —  I'ic^^  Magazine. 

J»ly, 


db,  Google 


THE  STORY  OF  BENJAMrN  FRANKLIN. 

CHAPTER  1. 

THE  life  and  success  of  Benjamin  Franklin 
should  inspire  American  youths  with  an  ambition 
to  be,  in  their  time,  as  useful  as  Franklin  was  in 
his.  The  foundation  of  Franklin's  greatness 
and  success  was  laid  in  his  youth.  Born  in  Boston, 
Mass.,  January  6,  1706,  old  style,  Jan.  17  of  our  pres- 
ent calendar,  he  was  the  youngest  boy  of  a  family  of 
seventeen  children.  He  early  took  a  dislike  to  his 
fother's  business,  a  tallow  chandler.  The  smell  of  the 
&t  obtained  by  killing  animals  was  disagreeable  to 
him.  He  was  therefore  apprenticed  to  his  brother,  a 
printer,  who  paid  for  his  board.  He  read  Tryon"s 
Way  lo  Health,  Long  Life  and  Happiness,  which 
pointed  out  that  Vegetarian  fare  would  promote  his 
health  and  extend  his  days,  so  he  concluded  to  subsist 
on  fruits  and  bread,  and  he  gave  up  the  practice  of 
eating  butchers'  meat.  He  told  his  brother  that  if  he 
wonld  pay  him  half  what  he  was  paying  for  his  (Ben- 
jamin's) board,  he  would  board  himself.  He  did  so,  and  Benjamin  purchased  raisins  and 
bread  for  his  noon  lunch  at  the  office,  and  for  his  morning  and  evening  meals  he  cooked 
hasty  pudding  (mush),  rice,  potatoes,  etc.     Our  picture  represents  him  at  the  office  takitig 

his  noon  lunch,   with  a   pitcher  of  ice 

water  and   reading  a  book.     He  found 

that  with  tlie  money  his_  brother   gave 

:  him,  although   only   half  what  he  had 

'  been  paying  for  his  board,  he  was  able 

I  to  purchase  all  tlie  food  he  required,  and 

yet  have  left  half  for  himself,  which  he 

judiciously  expended  on  the  purchase  of 

books,  thus  he  fed  both  body  and  mind 

at  half  the  expense  his  board  had   been 

to  his  brother. 

So  rapid  was  he  in  his  acquisition  of 
knowledge,  that  he  began  to  write  for  his 
brother's  newspaper,  the  New  England 
1    Courant,      under      various      disguises. 
,  There  were  critics  who  came  to  the  office 
i  and  conferred  together  in  regard  to  the 
articles  which  were  received,  and  he  had 
the  pleasure  of  hearing  his  own  produc- 
tions well  spoken  of  and  attributed  to 
certain  prominent  individuals,  showing 
that  they  were  highly  thought  of.     Our 
illustration  shows  Benjamin  at  work  at 
the  case,  but  listening  at  the  same  time  to  the  remarks  of  his  brother's  advisers. 
(To  be  continued  in  onr  next  issue.) 


d  by  Google 


IMPROVED  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  MILL 


We  have  received  the  following  note  from 
the  New  Machine  Co.,  that  manufecture  the 
Vegetarian   S'y  Mill,  dated  Feb.  4th.    1898: 

"  We  ate  glad  to  know  that  you  were  pleased 
with  the  last  three  which  we  sent  yon  and 
think  that  yon  will  be  atill  more  pleased  with 
these  as  we  have  made  some  changes  in  the 
pattern,  which  we  think  are  a  great  improve- 
ment." 

The  mills  have  arrived  and  we  find  the 
improvement '  consists  in  the  hopper  being 
made  one  casting  with  the  body  of  the  mill  on 
which  it  stands,  improving  the  shape  so  as 
to  {Militate  the  feeding  of  the  mill.  The 
weight  of  the  mill  is  also  decreased  without 
impairing  its  strength. 

TESTIMONIALS. 

The  following  are  all  voluntary  testimonials 
as  to  the  value  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill. 

Having  used  the  mill  I  have  no  hesitation  in 
saying  that  it  will  perfectly  meel  the  needs 
of  those  who  desire  pure  food  supplies  of  their 
own  manufacture. — Mrs.  Ellen  Goodell  Smith 
in  the  Fat  of  the  Land  p.  52. 

I  have  received  the  mill.  I  um  well  pleased 
with  it.  I  have  it  set  up  at  a  friend's  house 
who  is  using  it.— H.J,  Marty,  Cleveland,  O. 

I  ordered  one  of  your  mills  in  Feb.  '97  and 
have  had  it  in  constant  use  in  my  family  ever 
since.  I  could  not  do  without  it.  I  find  the 
sieves  unnecessary,  and  I  am  in  hearty  agree- 
ment with  you  that  it  is  conducive  to  )^ealth 
to  eat  bran  and  all  with  our  wheat.  We  are 
all  very  fond  of  pea-nut  butter  and  the  mill 
makes  it  to  perfection.  I  am  constantly  find- 
ing new  possibilities  in  thenjill— Rev.  Elmer 
F.  Krause,  Leechbui^,  Armstrong  Co.,  Pa. 

The  mill  is  bere ;  set  up  and  working  for 
higher  ethics  and  better  morals  among  all  my 
neighbors.  I  am  delighted  with  it,  forthongh 
it  is  easy  enough  for  me  to  be  a  Vegetarian, 
it  is  a  very  difficult  thing  for  most  people  be- 
cause whole  wheat  flour  spoils  by  dam  pness  so 
soon  and  few  people  can  tell  whether  they  are 
eating  food  or  mere  rubbish.  By  baking  pea- 
nuts very  brown  and  salting  well  I  can  grind 
them  into  paste  which   no  meal  eater  can  tell 


from  meat  by  look  or  taste. — Mrs.  N.B.  Arnold, 
Daytona,  Florida. 

So  far  as  I  have  had  opportunity  to  try  it 
I  think  the  mill  will  do  excellent  work. — B. 
L.   Richardson,    Avon  Park,    Florida. 

The  V.  S.  Mill  came  all  right.  The  mill  is 
strong  and  durable  and  will  do  allyonclaim 
for  it.  I  am  well  pleased  with  it, — E.  Treasure. 

I  have  had  a  pretty  good  chance  to  test  the 
Vegetarian  Society  Mill  here  this  winter  and 
I  find  it  very  useful  indeed. — James  E. 
Ainsley,  Winterset,  Iowa,  Feb.  30th,  189S. 

It  works  satisfactorily.  It  is  simple  in 
construction;  easily  turned  and  suitable  for  a 
variety  of  purposes  in  n  household.  We  have 
ground  wheat  and  maize  of  different  degrees 
of  fineness  and  nuts  to  our  satisfaction  with 
it. — Prof.  D.  Gregorson,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 
WHAT  CAN  BE  DONE  WITH  IT. 

An  almost  endless  variety  of  health  foods 
can  be  made  with  this  mill.  The  following 
directions  for  some  of  the  products  trill  be 
suggestive  also  of  many  others  which  an  in- 
telligent experimenter  can  turn  out: 

No.  I.— To  make  Lentil,  Peas  and  Bnck- 
wlieal  flour,  simply  grind  the  fineness  desired. 

No.  2.— Whole  wheat  flour.— Grind  the  best, 
thoroughly  cleansed  wheat  obtainable  as  finely 
as  possible  and  sieve  out  the  bran. 

No.  3-— Wheatena.— This  excellent  food  for 
mush  is  made  by  grinding  the  wheat  as  for 
whole  wheat  flour  and  sieving  out  both  the 
fine  flour  and  the  coarsest  bran. 

No.  4. — Glutin  flour. — Regrind  the  bran  ex- 
tracted from  tlie  whole  wheat  flonr  (No.  a.)and 
Wheateiia  (No.  3.)  and  sieve  out  the  light  bran. 

RECIPE. 
From  Hill  Lllyu  RIchardi,  131  AutuuD  St.,  Painlc.  N.J, 

Nut  food  Croquettes. — We  dolikeyonrnot 
food  very  much.  Sometimes  we  form  it  into 
little  croquettes  whirling  it  in  egg  and  then  ia 
cracker  crumbsorgranola  and  frying  in  nntcoc. 
— This  is  good  made  from  any  kind  of  nnU 
ground  in  this  mill. 

The  improved  Mill  is  not  increased  in  price. 
To  obtain  it  remitt4.75  in  check,  draft,  ormon- 
ey  order  to  V.  S.  A.,  310  Chestnut  St.,  Pbilt. 


d  by  Google 


MRS.  P.  B.  ALCUTT. 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


DR.   WM,   A.   ALCOTT. 


„  Google 


Vol.  II,  Nbw  Series,  No.  ao.    AUGUST,  SEPTEMBER,  1898.    Whole  Numbbr  qg. 

THE   ALCOTT   CENTENNIAL. 


THE  name  of  Alcott  has  for  sixty 
years  been  pleasantly  associated  with 
Vegetarian  practice  in  our  minds,  for 
it  was  at  Alcott  House,  Surrey,  England, 
that  we  received  a  good  part  of  our  educa- 
tion in  that  practice.  The  food  at  Alcott 
House  was  chiefly  wheatmeal  and  raisins 
made  into  loaves  by  our  old  friend  Aitkin, 
who  afterwards  became  Elder  in  the  Shak- 
er   Community  at  Enfield,  Conn. 

Wm.  A  Alcott  was  born  Aug.  6,  1798, 
and  we  celebrate  this  Alcott  Centennial  by 
publishing  in  August,  1898,  a  portrait  arid 
sketch  of  our  worthy  predecessor  as  Presi- 
dent of  the  first  American  Vegetarian 
Society. 

The  portrait  is  a  reproduction  from  a 
steel  engraving  published  in  Carnard's 
Journal -of  Education,  March,  1858,  when 
the  Doctor  had  attained  his  sixtieth  year. 

His  father  was  an  industrious  farmer  at 
Wolcott,  Conn.,  and  his  mother  a  woman 
of  intelligence  and  good  practical  wisdom, 
a  teacher  before  her  marriage.  From  this 
bright  New  England  mother  William  A. 
received  his  ambition  to  serve  others  and  to 
receive  a  good  education  with  that  end  in 
view.  His  mother's  instruction  prepared 
him  for  the  terras  of  the  district  school 
which  he  attended  winter  and  summer  until 
eight  years  of  age,  and  winter  terms  after- 
wards for  four  years.  He  sobn  distin- 
guished himself  as  a  scholar  and  became 
nionitM",  affording  much  aid  to  the  other 
scholars  after  school  hours,  in   dqiug  which 

<89«      . 


he  took  great  delight.  He  also  attended  a 
school,  kept  by  the  minister  of  the  parish, 
where  he  acquired  a  mote  perfect  knowledge 
of  Grammaf,  Geography  and  Composition. 
In  this  school  he  also  learned  a  good  deal 
by  teaching  others  and  his  mother's 
teaching  in  this  respect  became  confirmed 
in  his  own  experience. 

He  was  never  fond  of  boyish  sports  being 
especially  opposed  to  those  cruel  pastimes 
called  angling,  shooting  and  trapping,  all 
of  which  he  regarded  as  unmanly.  He  ac- 
quired a  gieat  love  of  books  in  which  his 
mother  encouraged  him.  While  engaged 
in  paring  apples  and  other  domestic  opera- 
tions, his  mother  related  to  him  the  results 
of  her  own  reading  and  thus  kept  alive  his 
thirst  for  knowledge  and  literature. 

"His  ambition  (like  that  of  Franklin), 
was  to  be  a  printer,  but  his  father  had  not 
the  money  to  pay  for  his  apprenticeship,  so 
he  continued  to  work  upon  the  farm,  and  at 
the  age  of  eighteen  he  became  the  teacher 
of  his  native  village  school  at  a  salary  of 
ten  dollars  a  month.  He  continued  teach- 
ing six  Huccessive  winters  in  difierent  parts 
of  Connecticut  andoneyearin  the  South. 

During  the  winter  of  1824-5,  ^^  had 
charge  of  the  Centra!  High  School  of  Bristol, 
and  boarding  in  the  family  of  a  physician, 
he  commenced  the  study  of  medicine.  In 
order  to  gain  time  for  study  he  restricted 
himself  to  four  hours'  sleep,  which  rendered 
him  nervous  and  irritable,  and  finaliy 
brought  on  a  sickness  from  which,  however, 
he    unexpectedly    recovered.       The    next 

115 


d  by  Google 


!FbODHOP1E#t;ARnEN| 


winter  he  attended  medical  lectures  at  New 
Haven,  and  the  following  March  received 
a  license  to  practice  medicine  and  surgery. 
But  his  health  was  far  from  good,  and  he 
became  more  apprehensive  than  consump- 
tive people  usually  are,  ofa  fatalresult.  On 
entering  the  fourth  year  of  his  medical 
practice,  his  health  was  so  improved  that 
he  volunteered  to  return  to  teaching. 

Writing  in  1S3S,  Dr.  Alcott  declares 
that  twelve  years  before  he  was  in  the  first 
stage  of  tuberculous  consumption  and 
advancing  rapidly  to  the  second.  At  the 
time  of  commencing  medical  practice  he 
laid  aside  his  feather  bed  and  slept  on  straw, 
and  in  December  of  the  same  year  (1826), 
abandoned  spirits  and  most  kinds  of  sitimu- 
lating  food.  Itwas  not  until  1830  that  he 
abandoned  all  drinks  but  water,  and  all 
flesh,  fish  and  all  other  highly  stimulating 
and  concentrated  aliments,  and  confined 
himself  to  a  diet  of  milk  and  vegetables. 
From  this  time  he  commenced  the  collection 
of  facts  on  the  subject  of  Human  Health, 
which  became  of  great  value  to  him  in  the 
compilation  of  books.  On  removing  to 
Boston  in  1832,  he  published  in  July  an 
anonymous  pamphlet  entitled,  "Rational 
View  of  Spasmodic  Cholera," 

He  was  formerly  subject  to  palpitations, 
these  became  less  frequent,  Fonnerly  he 
had  nearly  all  the  epidemics  that  appeared, 
but  since  his  change  of  diet  he  had  very  few 
attacks  of  this  nature,  although  living  in 
tlie  city  of  Boston,  which  at  that  time  was 
subject  to  many  epidemics,  and  is  a  climate 
particularly  irritating  to  weak  lungs.  Now 
he  had  but  few  colds.  An  attack  of  inflam- 
mation of  the  ear  attended  with  fever  was 
overcome  by  abstinence  and  emollient  ap- 
plications, and  he  was  soon  restored.  He 
was  confident  that  since  he  commenced  the 
use  of  vegetable  diet  he  had  been  a  great 
gainer  in  being  less  liable  to  cold,  and  the 
116 


ease   with  which  a  cold  was   overcome   if 
contracted. 

Dr.  Alcott  then  describes  his  experimett 
in  diet : 

"The  experiment  was  fully  begun  four 
years  ago  last  summer,  though  I  had  been 
making  great  changes  in  my  physical  habits 
for  four  years  before.  For  about  three 
years  I  used  neither  flesh  nor  fish,  noreven 
eggs  more  than  two  or  three  times  a  year. 
The  only  animal  food  I  used  was  milk,  and 
for  some  long  periods  not  even  that." 

Dr.  Alcott  tried  eating  flesh  moderately 
for  a  while  after  this,  but  at  last  laid  it  aside 
entirely  with  no  intention  of  resuming  it. 
He  regarded  vegetable  food  as  less  aperient 
in  his  case  than  animal. 

Dr.  Alcott  thus  describes  his  dietary 
habits  r  "I  use  bread  made  of  unbolted 
white  meal,  in  moderate  quantity,  when  I 
can  get  it ;  plain  Indian  (maize)  cakes,  once 
a  day,  rice  once  a  day,  milk  once  a  day. 
My  plan  is  to  eat  as  few  things  as  possible 
at  the  same  meal,  but  to  have  considerable 
variety  at  different  meals.  I  use  no  new 
bread  or  pastry,  no  cheese  and  but  little 
butter,  and  very  little  fruit,  except  apples 
in  moderate  quantity. 

On  this  diet  Dr.  Alcott  gradually  gained 
strength,  so  that  the  consumptive  tendency 
which  came  so  near  proving  fatal  in  hb 
early  manhood,  was  so  overcome  that  he 
was  able  to  pursue  his  favorite  calling  as 
teacher  in  the  form  of  lecttirer  to  the  public 
schools  of  New  England.  Although  he 
never  took  on  a  superabundance  of  flesh, 
he  attained  that  wiry  nature  which  enabled 
him  to  perform  a  large  amount  of  literatr 
and  even  physical  labor  as  well  as  to 
travel  about  as  a  public  lecturer. 

In    1853,   we  find  him   writing  in    the 

American    Vegelarian   an    article  entitled, 

"Thirteen   Sermons  a   Day,"  in  which  be 

relates  that  "At  the  termination  of  one  ol 

Ang.-Sep. 


.V  Google 


mmmmmm 


my  campaigns  in  Southeastern  Massachu- 
setts, Captain  S.  F.  said  to  me  :  "How  is 
it,  my  dear  friend,  that  while  our  ministers 
so  often  break  down  under  the  weight  of 
two  or  three  sermons  a  week,  you,  who 
appear  more  feeble  than  most  of  them,  can 
preach  every  day,  sometimes  two  or  three 
times  a  day,  and  yet  only  acquire  hardihood 
by  it  ?' 

' '  At  this  time  I  was  indeed  able  to  lecture 
not  only  every  day,  butseveral  times  a  day. 
*I  had  given  on  occasions,  some  eight  of 
nine  of  these  lectures  in  public  schools  in 
places  I  visited,  besides  a  long  public 
lecture  in  the  evening.  During  a  late  tour 
in  Ohio  I  found  my  constitution  so  far 
renovated  and  invigorated  as  to  be  equal  to 
the  task  of  speaking  six  hours  during  the 
day  and  two  in  the  evening.  This  in  one 
instance  in  the  citj-  of  Cleveland,  resulted 
in  twelve  lectures  in  the  schools  and  one 
public  lecture  in  the  evening.  That  I 
could  continue  this  number,  I  have  no  cer- 
tain evidence,  but  I  do  know  that  I  was 
able,  and  am  now  able,  to  endure  the  labor 
of  several  lectures  every  forenoon  and  after- 
noon, and  one  in  Ihe  evening  day  by  day 
throughout  the  year. 

"But  my  own  power  of  endurance  is  often 
tested  in  another  and  less  equivocal  manner. 
I  am  now  able  to  visit  from  fifty  to  seventy- 
five  families  in  a  day,  besides  giving  a 
lecture  of  two  hours  in  the  evening.  These 
family  visits  involve  a  vast  amount  of  con- 
versation on  various  topics,  often  exciting 
and  always  more  or  less  exhausting.  Were 
it  the  ordinary  chit-chat  of  the  day  or  mere 
gossip,  it  would  be  quite  another  matter  ; 
but  more  frequently,  indeed  almost  always, 
it  involves  protracted  discussions  on  the 
laws  of  health  and  disease,  the  necessity 
and  duty  of  reform,  etc.  My  deep  interest 
in  all  that  bears  on  the  well-being  of 
humanity  precludes  the  possibility  of  my 
1898 


conversing  on  such  topics  without  interest 
— a  degree  of  interest  which  soon  flags 
without  moral  courage  and  effort.  And 
they  alone  know  who  have  tried  it,  how 
much  conversation  of  this  kind  continued 
from  morning  till  evening  and  sometimes 
extended  by  the  curious  and  inquiring  to 
late  hours  in  the  evening,  will  fatigue  and 
even  wear  upon  the  system." 

Dr.  Alcott  wrote  about  a  dozen  books  in 
which  Vegetarian  habits  were  prescribed 
and  sustained  by  facts,  arguments  and 
authorities,  besides  other  educational  works, 
108  in  all. 

He  was  elected  firat  president  of  the 
American  Vegetarian  Society  in  1850,  and 
in  his  address  to  the  meeting  that  elected 
him,  he  gave  a  high  teslimonj'  as  to  the 
good  effects  of  living  on  a  pure  diet  of 
bread  made  of  coarsely  ground  wheatmeal, 
parched  grains,  plain  puddings  and  the  best 
fruits  of  the   season. 

Mrs.  P.  B.  Alcoit,  his  widow,  still  sur- 
vives and  enjoys  life  at  the  age  of  86,  a 
healthy  Vegetarian,  a  mother  of  Rev.  Wm. 
P.  Alcott  and  Mrs.  Phebe  Crafts,  who  re- 
main true  to  the  faith  and  practice  of  their 
illustrious  father. 

The  portrait  of  Mrs.  P.  B.  Alcott  on  page 
ii3isfrom  photo  taken  in  1882,  her  70th 
year. 

Rev.  Wm.  P.  Alcott,  Boxford,  Mass.. 
writes  under  date  of  July  19,  1898  1 

"My  mother,  Phoebe  Bronson  Alcott, 
was  born  Nov.  8,  1812,  in  Wolcott.  Conn. 
Slie  now  resides  with  her  daughter,  at 
Oberlin,  Ohio.  At  a  recent  visit,  I  found 
her  unusually  well  and  she  is  said  to  lofk 
twenty  years  younger  than  her  real  age. 
She  has  no  disease  about  her  but  prefers  a 
quiet  life.  I  believe  that  she  to  whom  I 
owe  so  much  has  been  counted  by  all 
acquaintances  an  uncommonly  intelligenl, 
level-headed  and  faithful  christian  woman. 
Her  works  praise  her  and  her  children 
"rise  up  and  call  her  blessed." 


d  by  Google 


^fWSom^HEnI 


^^ 


A  VEGETARIAN  ON  A  JOURNEY. 
Article  IV. 


By  J.  George  Heid,  St.  Louis,  Mo, 

In  Germany,  every  confectioner  who 
serves  coffee,  every  hotel,  every  ice  cream 
saloon  and  every  non-Vegetarian  restaurant 
also  serves  beer  and  wine.  Not  so  the 
Vegetarian  restaurants.  When  telling  some 
Germans  that  in  the  United  States  a  strictly 
first-class  confectionery  and  ice  cream 
saloon  would  not  serve  beer  or  other  intox- 
icants they  were  much  surprised ,  and  asked  : 
"But  what  does  a  man  do  while  the  lady 
eats  ice  cream,  ices,  or  drinks  soda  water,  if 
he  can  have  no  beer?" 

In  the  city  of  Stralsund,  Pomerania,one 
man  said  to  me  :  "But  my  dearsir  !  How 
does  the  beer  agree  with  such  a  strange 
diet?" 

In  another  city,  a  man  told  me  in  all 
sincerity,  that  he  tried  the  Vegetarian  diet 
for  a  while,  but  was  forced  to  give  it  up, 
as  he  did  not  have  the  proper  relish  for 
beer  during  the  whole  time  he  lived  that 
way.  And  when  one  thinks  of  it !  Oranges, 
dish  of  oatmeal  and  a  schooner  of  beer  1 
Or  think  how  one  would  relish  a  glass  of 
l>eer  with  a  big  slice  of  water-melon  and  a 
fruit-pudding  ? 

WHiile  all  this  may  sound  very  discourag- 
ing, it  is  pleasant  to  know  that  right  in 
tJerniany,  Vegetarianism  is  gaining  rapid- 
ly, and  the  following  encouraged  me  espec- 
ially : 

Physicians  sometimes  find  that  their 
patients  are  much  injured  by  excessive  beer 
drinking,  and  knowing  that  they  cannot 
prevail  on  them  to  stop  this,  they  prescribe 
strict  Vegetarian  diet  for  them,  and  in  a 
little  while  the  thirst  for  beer  diminishes  of 
itself,  while  the  patient,  finding  himself 
improving,  ascribes  it  to  the  diet,  which 
is  after  all  the  primary  cause. 
Ii8 


In  Frankfort-on-the-Main,  a  German 
Vegetarian  said  to  me  in  his  excellent  Ger- 
man ;  and  he  was  a  well  educated  man : 
"While  I  am  convinced  that  the  Vegetarian 
diet  is  conducive  to  health  generally,  I 
know  that  in  my  case  it  redeemed  me 
morally  and  physically.  I  was  addicted  to 
the  habit  of  drink  to  such  an  extent  that  I 
was  fi-equently  taken  out  of  the  gutter.  I 
felt  the  disgrace  keenly  and  tried  everything 
in  my  power  to  reform,  but  the  harder  I 
tried,  the  more  I  drank,  and  I  finally  con- 
sidered myself  beyond  human  aid.  But 
fortunately,  I  was  induced  to  try  V'egeta- 
riaiiism  ;  not  that  I  had  such  confidence  in 
it,  audit  was  a  difficult  thing  to  live  up  to 
at  first,  but  at  the  last  resort  I  made  the 
effort  BTid  found  that  soon  my  unnatural 
appetite  for  alcoholic  beverages  decreased 
perceptibly  and  to  my  unspeakable  delight, 
I  found  myself  able,  in  time,  to  conquer 
the  passion  entirely,  and  for  several  years 
have  not  touched  a  drop  of  the  vile  stuff. 
But,  I  find  the  only  absolute  cure  is  total 
abstinence,  and  I  surely  may  claim  to 
speak  from  experience.  When  I  hear 
people  talking  to  nie  of  moderate  drinking, 
I  become  impatient,  for  I  have  never  found 
many  yet  who  did  not  claim  to  drink  mod- 
erately, and  it  is  the  moderate  drinkers  who 
eventually  fill  a  drunkard's  grave.  One 
may  drink  moderately  one  day,  or  perhaps 
two  or  three  days,  and  then  relapse  into  the 
old  evil  again.  In  fact,  it  is  so  hard  to 
know  where  the  line  must  be  drawn  between 
moderate  drinking  and  sottism.  Butof  one 
thing  I  have  convinced  myself,  which  is, 
that  to  avoid  drunkenness,  the  absolutely 
safe  method  is  to  shun  strong  drink  alto- 
gether, and  to  do  this,  a  great  aid  is  to  be 
found  in  Vegetarianism." 

This  was  very  frank  talk  and  certainly  a 
high  tribute  to  Vegetarianism.  It  pleased 
me  so  to  meet  this  apparently  sincere  man. 
Atig.-Sep. 


d  by  Google 


(FOOD  HOMEv^'* GARDEN! 


that  I  was  interested  enough  in  his  case  to 
make  inquiries  about  him,  and  found  to  my 
delight  that  he  was  a  man  now  held  in  high 
esteem  among  the  Frankfort  citizens,  and 
that  he  had  at  one  time  been  considered  an 
incurable  drunkard. 

In  Sweden,  I  was  struck  with  the  differ- 
ent customs,  for  instance :  the  railroad  . 
stations  are  not  connected  with  saloons,  nor 
is  beer  or  wine  served  in  the  majority  of  the 
confectioneries  or  ice  cream  saloons.  In 
fact,  alcoholic  drinking  is  not  carried  on 
very  excessively  in  Sweden.  In  the  city 
of  Stockholm,  the  capitol  of  Sweden,  I 
found  two  excellent  Vegetarian  restaurants, 
one,  however,  had  salmon  on  the  bill  of 
iare. 

It  is  remarkable  how  that  fallacy  about 
cold  climates  making  meat-eating  necessary 
is  exploded  on  nearer  acquaintance.  For 
here  were  many  who  never  ate  meat  and 
were  frequently  exposed  to  severe  cold 
temperature,  who  were  as  fully  able  to 
stand  it,  if  not  better,  than  those  who  ate 
meats. 

A  bread  called  "hard  brod"  is  used  very 
extensively  in  Sweden.  "Brod"  is  the 
Swedish  word  for  bread.  This  hard  bread 
is  in  the  form  of  round  flat  loaves,  about  as 
large  as  a  large  si/,ed  dinner  plate,  but  not 
much  thicker  than  our  ordinary  crackers. 
It  is  made  from  entire  wheat  flour  ard  is 
something  like  what  we  call  here  "educator  ^ 
crackers."  I  found  it  very  palatable  and 
they  claim  it  to  be  excellent  for  supplying 
warmth  to  the  body.  They  say  there  that 
cold  can  be  endured  much  better  by  eating 
the  "tiard  brod"  than  by  a  meat  diet.  A 
loafof  this  bread  costs  5  ores  (about  I'/i 
cents)  and  makes  a  good  meal.  One  thing 
certain,  you  eat  it  slowly ;  no  hasty 
ndigestive  meal  to  complain  of.  Vegetar- 
ian restaurants  are  not  very  plentiful  in 
Sweden,  because  nearly  every  restaurant, 
1898 


like  in  Kngland,  furnishes  an  abundant 
variety  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  so  that  the 
need  of  special  restaurants  is  not  great 
enough  to  support  many. 

In  one  of  the  country  towns  of  Sweden, 
I  remarked  to  a  lady  that  I  could  not  get 
people  to  understand  there  that  I  was  a 
Vegetarian,  could  not  make  myself  under- 
stood in  the  Swedish  language  that  I  did 
not  eat  meat.  She  replied  in  Swedish  : 
"Oh,  you  speak  Swedish  well  enough,  but 
no  doubt  it  is  the  same  with  them  as  with 
me.  We  can  understand  that  you  do  not 
eat  meat,  but  cannot  imagine  a  reason  why 
you  do  not."  But  fortunately  this  was 
confined  to  a  small  class  of  Swedes,  for 
many  practice  Vegetarianism  there,  and 
many  who"  are  not  Vegetarians  find  much  to 
recommend  it. 

In  Copenhagen  (called  there  "Kjoben- 
havn")  the  capitol  of  Denmark,  I  found  a 
fruit  restaurant  carried  on  in  connection 
with  a  fruit  store,  in  which  only  fruits 
could  be  ordered,  and  these  were  very 
reasonable.  A  bill  of  fare  to  select  from 
was  :  watermelon,  cantelopes,  grapes, 
prunes,  cherries,  strawberries,  raspberries 
and  blackberries.  A  plate  and  napkin  is 
placed  before  the  guest,  and  each  kind  of 
fruit  he  orders  is  placed  on  the  table  in 
separale  dishes,  with  a  small  pitcher  of 
cream,  some  sugar  and  salt  placed  before 
him.  No  meal  is  served  under  sooresCijJ-j 
cents)  that  being  the  cost  of  any  dish  of 
finit,  but  when  three  varieties  are  ordered, 
the  cost  was  only  one  "krona"  (27  centsj. 
They  told  me  that  in  their  season  they  .sold 
apples,  oranges,  bananas  and  pineapples. 
giving  persons  living  exclusively  on  frull. 
a  good  variety  to  choose  from. 

In  article  V,  I  shall  conclude  the  de- 
scription of  my  journey  with  experiences  in 
Austria,  France  and  England. 

119 


.V  Google 


IFOODHOMEv^^^GARDENI 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


VlOBTHI^H  aociBTT 


One  SolwCTipHon,  y 


la..  four  SubKrlptlom    [i.s 


AdvertltmcBIs  per  llae,  one  insertha,  i« 
13  InsertloasS I. oo.  For  iil/nes  i  Insertion 
For  13  Insertions  Sio.    Perpafc,  InsUe,  S13,  « 


Our  objection  to  the  Chinese  criticism 
(page  124)  of  European  flesh -eaters  is  that 
it  is  unjust  to  the  sheep. 

Athletic  facts  are  accumulating  both  in 
Europe  and  America  proving  the  endurance 
of  Vegetarians  who  of  course  are  teetotalars 
as  well. 


The  /nier  Ocean,  Chicago,  has  always 
been  a  good  friend  to  the  Vegetarian  cause. 
It  has  engaged  Dr.  David  H.  Reeder,  who 
was  editor  of  the  New  Race  \.o  \a.^e  charge 
of  its  Nome  Health  Club  which  secures  for 
each  subscriber  of  $1 .00  the  Weekly  Inler 
Ocean  for  one  year,  and  Vol  I  of  the  Home 
■  Health  books. 


We  have  prepared  blanks  for  the  Vege- 
tarian Census  and  will  send  them  to  any 
of  our  friends  willing  to  aid  us  in  making  it 
complete. 

The  Home  Health  Book  by  Dr.  David  H. 
Keeder,  given  to  each  subscriber  of  the 
Weekly  luler  Ocean  is  a  valuable  treatise. 
It  condemns  swine's  flesh  and  gives  many 
useful  hygienic  suggestions. 

Where  people  stumble  in  regard  to  Veg- 
etarian practice  is  usually  in  the  want  of  a 
proper  and  careful  selection  and  preparation 
of  food  adapted  to  their  requirements.  The 
American  Vegetarian  Cookery  for  15  cts. 
supplies  this  information. 

Mr,  R.  F.  Pamell  is  the  Superintendent 
of  the  Vacant  Lots  Cultivation  Association 
who  wrote  the  excellent  article  on  Compul- 
sory Cultivation  on  p.  124.  We  are  glad 
that  the  proposal  in  our  July  number  meets 
the  approval  of  the  executive  of  this  dissoci- 
ation. Who  will  prepare  the  legislative 
measure  ? 


The  Irish  Court  of  Appeal  in  Dublin  has 
decided  that  Vegetarian  Societies  are  Char- 
itable Institutions  and  gifts  to  them  legal 
under  certain  statutes.  This  secures  /loo 
a  year  forever  to  the  London  Vegetarian 
Society  and  the  same  to  the  Vegetarian  So- 
ciety, Manchester,  by  will  of  Mrs.  Cranston 
of  Belfast. 


The  general  newspaper  and  periodica! 
press  is  advocating  positive  Vegetarianism 
piecemeal.  Some  advocate  the  use  of 
fruits  ;  some  of  special  varieties  of  fruit  as 
specifics  and  preventives  of  certain  dis- 
eases; others  extol  the  virtues  of  nuts: 
others  of  oats,  wheat  and  other  cereals  and 
nearly  all  condemn  the  use  of  much  flesh 
"in  hot  weather."  Thus  the  truth  of  Veg- 
etarianism is  being  acknowledged  and  is 
gaining  ground  in  the  public  mind. 


Because  abstaining  from  flesh  is  necessa- 
rily made  the  distinctive  requirement  of 
membership  in  Vegetarian  Societies,  it  has 
been  supposed  that  this  constitutes  Vegeta- 
rianism. But  while  the  negative  is  essen- 
tial to  the  enjoyment  of  Vegetarian  life,  the 
positive  requirement  of  living  upon  a  selec- 
tion from  the  nuts,  fhiits,  cereals  and  veg- 
etables is  what  we  claim  the  correct 
definition  of  Vegetarian  philosophy. 


The  signal  victorj^  gained  by  eight  ^^ege- 
tariiins  in  Berlin  over  fourteen  flesh -eaters 
in  a  70  mile  walking  test  should  have  some 
influence  in   regulating  the  army   ration- 


Digitized  hy  Google 


IFOODHOMEv^'^GARDENI 


This  country  has  led  other  nations  in  abol- 
ishing grog  in  the  navy  ration  and  whiskey 
has  been  prohibited  in  the  army  we  believe, 
except  as  medicine,  with  quinine.  The 
next  step  is  to  abolish  the  filthy  pork  as  a 
ration  so  as  to  preserve  the  soldiers  from 
trichinea  and  hog  cholera ;  and  next  the 
corn  beef  ration ;  then  the  poisonous  potted 
beef  must  be  abandoned  and  then  there  will 
be  a  chance  for  a  soldier  to  come  ftom  a 
war  in  as  good  health  as  he  went. 


The  Chicago  Tribune  refers  to  the  mar- 
riage of  C,  F.  Silliman  to  Annie  Force 
English  and  says  that  "  Miss  English  was 
a  telegrapher  in  the  Agricnlttural  Depart- 
ment at  a  salary  of  $iooa  month,  and  in 
ten  years  of  her  service  has  not  los^  an  hour 
or  been  a  moment  late.  She  is  a  Vegeta- 
rian which  cause  is  assigned  by  some  for 
her  good  record . ' ' 


With  this  number  we  give  some  account 
of  what  can  be  done  with  the  Vegetarian 
Society  Mill.  People  who  attempt  Vegeta- 
rianism on  white  or  baker's  bread ;  dairy 
butter  and  ordinary  tea,  coffee  and  condi- 
ments are  very  apt  to  fail  to  realize  the  real 
benefits  of  the  new  life,  but  with  the  facili- 
ties offered  by  this  mill  they  may  obtain  a 
family  supply  of  good,  pure,  wholesome 
food  at  less  than  half  the  cost  of  the  adulter- 
ated and  often  unclean  foods  obtained  from 
ordinary  sources.  Even  where  the  use  of 
flesh  meat  has  not  been  abandoned,  the  use 
of  one  of  these  mills  will  be  found  to  add 
immensely  to  the  health  and  enjojanent  of 
domestic  life. 


"SALT  HORSE." 

The    complaints  of  sailors  and  soldiers 

at)out  the    rations    provided  for   them  are 

numerous  and  what  is  worse  they  are  well 

founded.     One  young  man  on  a  blockading 

Aug.-Sep. 


vessel  writes  to  his  mother :  "We  cannot 
get  enongb  water  to  drink.  We  only  get  a 
quart  every  twenty-four  hours.  If  I  could 
get  one  of  your  good  meals  it  would  be  a 
paradise  compared  with  this  fore.  There  is 
nothing  but  hardtack,  'salt  horse'  and 
canned  meats.  I  will  never  eat  any  canned 
meats  or  'salt  horse'  again  if  I  get  home 
all  right. 


FRUIT  &  VEGETABLE  TROLLEY. 
Col.  J.  C.  Bonner  of  Toledo,  O.,  has  in- 
vented a  Trolley  truck  for  the  conveyance 
of  farm  wagons  so  that  fresh  fruit  and  veg- 
etables can  be  taken  daring  the  early  hours 
of  the  morning  by  trolley  roads  into  the  city. 
We  suggested  such  a  use  of  the  Trolley 
roads  sometime  ago  and  are  glad  that  To- 
ledo City  Councils  have  given  Col.  B.  an 
opportunity  to  try  his  experiment  for  a 
year,  although  several  years  will  be  required 
to  develop  all  the  advantages  of  this  im- 
provement. 


THE  ARMY  RATION. 
The  Republican  Wauseon,  Ohio,  refers 
in  complimentary  terms  to  our  efforts  to 
obtain  an  improved  ration  for  soldiers  and 
sailors  from  the  Battle  Creek  Bakeries. 
Our  response  from  Battle  Creek  was  that  . 
government  officials  were  not  willing  to 
pay  enough  for  soldiers'  ration  to  enable  the 
Health  Food  Co.  to  supply  a  scientific  ra- 
tion. But  we  understand  the  present  hard- 
tack and  fat  pork  and  beans  ration  costs  the 
government  40  cts.  a  day.  Now  it  would 
be  impossible  for  a  soldier  to  eat  40  cts. 
worth  of  cereal  Health  Foods  a  day  even  at 
the  present  retail  price,  and  the  substitution 
of  pulse  for  a  portion  of  the  health  foods 
would  not  increase  the  cost  but  diminish  it. 
We  have  suggested  that  our  Battle  Creek 
friends  endeavor  to  supply  health  foods  to 
the  hospitals  if  not  to  the  camps. 

f2I 


d  by  Google 


Potatoes   and  Parsley  Saiiw.  Corn   Timbalw. 

Onlmeal  Wafers.  Brown  Bread. 

Raspberry    Cteam.       Sliced    Peaches.        Ripe    Plums. 

Spring    Water. 

RECIPES.  ^ 

NastiiTtium  Salad. — Slice  2  hard  boiled 
eggs  over  a  dish  of  shredded  lettuce  and 
dot  with  nasturtium  flowers.  Serve  with 
French  dressing. 

French  Salad  Dressing. — In  a  small 
bowl  put  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a 
saltspoon  of  pepper  and  3  tablespoons  of 
oil ;  stir  until  the  salt  dissolves,  then  add 
I  tablespoon  of  good  vinegar  (preferably 
tarragon,)  blend  thoroughly  and  pour  over 
the  salad. 

From  Thr   IMinfalet. 

Com  Timbales. — Grate  the  corn  from  the 
ears,  beat  5  eggs  until  light,  and  add  % 
teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  of  white  pepper, 
4ouiicesof  fine  cracker  crumbs  and  i  pt.  of 
the  grated  corn.  Pour  into  tinibale 
moulds  dusted  with  parsley  chopped  fine 
and  previously  greased.  Set  in  a  baking 
pan  of  boiling  water,  cover  with  a  sheet  of 
buttered  paper  and  cook  in  the  oven  twenty 
minutes.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Tomato  Sauce. — Put  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  into  a  saucepan,  add  a  chopped 
onion  and  frj-  brown.  Stir  in  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  and  I  qt.  of  stewed  tomatoes.  Let 
simmer  for  10  minutes,  strain  and  then  add 
seasoning  to  taste  and  a  little  minced  par- 
sley. 

Raspberry  Cream. — Take  i  qt.  of  ripe, 
red  raspberries,  bniise  them,  cover  with 
pulverized  sugar,  and  let  them  stand  for  % 
hour;  then  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Measure  this  pulp  and  add  to  it  an  equal 
qoantity  of  rich,  sweetened  cream.     Whip 

13% 


it  to  a  stiff  froth.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a 
glass  dish  thickly  with  lady-fingers  an.dponr 
the  cream  over  them,  and  stand  on  the  ice 
until  ready  to  ser\'e. 

HEALTH  FOODS. 
By  Josephine  Gr.a.nnis. 

Very  few  consider  the  laws  which  govern 
the  health  of  men  are  as  much  divine  as  is 
the  Decalogue;  and  that  tlie  infraction 
thereof  is  the  breaking  of  the  moral  code. 
When  we  understand  this  we  shall  heed  the 
injunction,  '"Whether  therefore  ye  eat  or 
drink,  or  whatsoever  ye  do,  do  all  to  Ihe 
glory  of  God." 

No  reformation  has  e^-er  been  accom- 
plished without  opposition  :  and  health  re- 
form is  stronger  to-day  for  this;  for  oppo- 
sition reveals  the  principles  of  truth  upon 
which  it  is  based.  The  influence  of  Gra- 
ham is  well  known,  and  that  of  his  many 
followers  and  the  members  of  the  Ralston 
Health  Club  is  a  force  which  will  continue 
to  grow.  While  most  advocate  the  refonn 
from  a  purely  physical  standpoint,  at  least 
one  body  of  Christians,  some  fifty  thousand 
strong,  base  it  entirely  upon  religious 
grounds.  Yet  here,  as  in  every  other 
school,  there  are  health*  reformers,  and 
health  deformers. 

From  an  insignificeut  beginning  about 
thirty  years  ago,  the  publication  of  a  little 
health  journal,  grew  a  small  sanitarium 
where  rational  methods  of  treatment  far  in 
advance  of  tlic  da>-  were  employed  :  ue 
have  to-day  six  sanitarinnis,  the  largt-stof 
which  is  located  in  Battle  Creek,  Mich.,  and 
the  others  scattered  over  this  and  other  con- 
tinents. The  journal  Good  Health  is  the 
successor  of  the  first  sheet  referred  to,  and 
is  winning  praise  from  all  who  read  it. 
Aog.-Sep. 


d  by  Google 


Perhaps  the  Sanitarian  at  Battle  Creek  is 
the  largest  and  most  widely  known  of  all 
the  institutions  of  its  kind.  In  these  insti- 
tutions, the  treatment  of  disease  being  both 
restorative  and  preventitive,  the  aim  is  to 
cure,  if  possible,  and  so  to  instruct  the 
patient,  that  he  may  know  how  to  avoid 
that  which  has  brought  him  into  bondage 
to  disease.  To  remove  the  cause,  rather 
than  mere  symptoms,  is  the  ofBce  of  the 
Sanitarium  physician.  Drugs  do  not  ac- 
complish this,  but  only  augment  the  dis- 
orders of  the  system.  "If  all  people  under- 
stood thfe  value  of  water  to  cool,  cleanse, 
invigorate  and  sustain  life,  and  bow  to  use 
it,  and  would  use  it,  one-half  of  all  the 
afflictions  from  disease  would  be  removed ; 
and  the  other  half  might  be  banished  if  all 
understood  how,  and  what  to  eat,  how  to 
breathe,  and  the  necessity  of  daily,  vigor- 
ous exercise."  Massage,  electricity,  exer- 
cise, water  in  the  form  of  baths,  packs, 
fomentations,  heat,  proper  food,  prepared 
without  grease  and  condiments,  abundance 
of  fruit,  healthful  dress,  fresh  air,  will  work 
wonders  for  the  sick,  and  will  keep  a  well 
person  in  robust  health. 

Cases  of  obstinate  eye  and  ear  difficulties 
have  been  cnred  by  no  other  means  than 
a  reform  in  diet.  It  is  not  what  we  eat, 
but  what  we  digest  which  is  of  benefit  to  us. 
Defective  nutrition  throws  the  whole  sys- 
tem into  a  stale  of  war.  This  is  the  cause 
of  much  of  the  irritability  of  temper  which 
is  so  bard  to  overcome. 

In  normal  digestion  about  one-fourth  of 
the  etarch  in  our  food  is  digested  in  the 
mouth  by  means  of  the  saliva ;  the  remain- 
der is  well  mixed  with  it,  and  the  work  is 
continued  in  the  stomach.  In  cases  of 
"slow  digestion,"  the  acidity  ofthe  stom- 
ach prevents  the  further  action  of  the  sa- 
liva either  wholly  or  in  part ;  the  starch, 
being  imperfectly  digested,  is  not  readily 
[898 


absorbed,  and  being  too  long  retained  in 
the  stomach,  undergoes  fermentation.  An- 
other reason  of  slow  digestion  is  that  too 
much  fluid  is  taken  with  the  meal,  and 
the  stomach  secretion  is  thus  diminished  in 
its  strength ;  hence  it  is  better  to  drink 
little  either  during  or  near  mealtime.  The 
drier  foods,  well  masticated,  are  more  eas- 
ily digested  and  assimilated. 

In  the  first  stages  of  consumption  and  of 
other  wasting  diseases,  perhaps  the  first 
symptom  noticed  is  a  loss  of  flesh.  If  at 
this  period,  food  of  a  very  nourishing  char- 
acter were  taken,  the  ^system  would  be 
better  able  to  grapple  with  the  germs,  and 
be  kept  in  health,  so  that  it  might  continue 
its  work  of  ridding  itself  of  the  germs  which 
might  intrude.  In  a  weakened  state,  the 
germs  grow  and  multiply,  and  finally  death 
ends  all.  Most  phj^icians  recommend 
emulsions  of  cod  liver  oil  at  this  time  of 
need.  It  has  been  known  by  them  that 
nuts  are  of  the  highest  value  as  tissue  build- 
ers, but  their  indigestibility  has  prevented 
their  use  to  any  great  extent.  Now,  how- 
ever, a  means  has  been  devised  whereby 
they  are  rendered  exceedingly  palatable, 
and  also  very  easy  of  digestion ;  so  much  so 
in  fact,  that  they  can  be  used  by  those  who 
cannot  eat  other  foods.  The  reason  is  that 
by  grinding,  the  globules  of  the  indigestible 
free  oil  are  in  the  process,  so  broken  up  and 
carried  in  emulsion  that  the  weakest  stom- 
ach can  assimilate  the  nut  products. 

It  is  generally  believed  that  Vegetarians 
are  so  called  because  of  their  use  of  vegeta- 
bles. But  the  word  Vegetarian  really 
comes  from  a  Latin  verb  which  means  "to 
be  strong,  to  grow."  It  is  true  that  veg- 
etablecomes  from  the  same  word,  but  it  has 
a  different  signification.  Hence  the  true 
Vegetarian  is  the  one  who  from  the  varied 
stores  of  Nature,  selects  that  which  is  best 
suited  to  keep  him  in  the  best  health. 

123 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


VEGETARIAN     VICTORY. 
MEAT-BATERS    WALKED  OFF  THEIR    LEGS. 

A  very  iaterestiug  walking  match  took 
place  at  Berlin  last  Sunday  over  a  distance 
of  about  70  English  miles.  There  were 
twenty-two  starters,  amongst  them  eight 
Vegetarians,  and  the  distance  had  to  be 
covered  within  eighteen  hours.  The  inter- 
esting result  was  that  the  first  six  to  arrive 
at  the  goal  were  Vegetarians,  the  first  fin- 
ishing in  fourteen  and  a  quarter  hours,  the 
second  in  fourteen  hours .  aud  a  half,  the 
third  in  fifteen  hours  and  a  half,  the  fourth 
in  sixteen  hours,  Jhe  fifth  in  sixteen  hours 
and  a  half,  and  the  sixth  in  seventeen  hours 
and  a  half.  The  two  last  missed  their  way 
and  walked  five  miles  more.  All  reached 
the  goal  in  splendid  condition.  Not  till  an 
hour  after  the  last  Vegetarian  arrived  did 
the  first  meat-eater  appear,  completely  ex- 
hausted. He  moreover,  was  the  only  one, 
the  others  having  dropped  off  after  thirty- 
five  miles. — Birmingham,  England.  Argus. 

The  N.  Y.Sim  published  the  same  report 
under  this  heading:  "Vegetarians  Re- 
joice. The  German  Walking  Test  Claimed 
as  a  Triumph  for  their  hobby."  It  seems 
to  be  a  claim  that  is  acknowledged  by  the 
English  press  and  cannot  be  disputed. 


COXPULSORV  IMPROVEMENT  OF 
VACANT  LOTS. 

The  following  is  ft'om  a  letter  from  the 
Superintendent  of  the  Philadelphia  Vacant 
Lots  Cultivation  Association,  for  the  relief 
of  the  Unemployed,  Philadelphia,  July  16, 
1898,  "  I  have  read  with  much  interest 
quotations  from  an  article  in  your  July  is- 
sue on  ■  Compulsory  Improvement  of  all 
Vacant  I^ts'  and  I  agree  with  you  that 
scarcely  anything  else  could  be  done  that 
would  be  so  conducive  to  good  health  as  the 
putting  of  these  waste  places  to  a  good  use. 
It  would  not  only  give  employment  to  those 
124 


who  are  now  walking  the  streets,  begging 
for  an  opportunity  to  work,  and  clear  on- 
drained  lots  of  stagnant  disease- breeding 
pools  and  dumps,  but  would  be  a  means  of 
allowing  many  to  get  the  very  best  vegeta- 
ble food  who  are  now  forced  to  6nger 
through  garbage  barrels  for  the  crumbs  that 
have  fallen  ft'om  Dives'  table.  If  any  one 
of  yovu-  readers  think  that  no  one  lias  to  lin- 
ger through  garbage  barrels  and  boxes  for 
these  crumbs,  let  him  visit  any  of  the  pub- 
lic market  houses  in  the  city  and  keep  an 
eye  upon  these  receptacles  for  rotting  meats 
and  vegetables  for  a  few  minutes  and  he  or 
she  will  not  only  see  them  finger  over  but 
often  see  pale,  hungry  waife  of  such  tender 
years  as  to  call  to  mind  '  babes  and  suck- 
lings'almost  fighting  with  each  other  ft-om  this 
garbage..  And  all  this  is  in  the  verj-  heart 
of  civilization  which  calls  itself  Christian 
and  in  a  community  where, food,  clothing 
and  houses  are  so  abundant  that  we  often 
hear  men  talking  of  over-production  and 
over- population  as  if  it  were  possible  to 
have  the  two  at  the  same  time  and  place. ' ' 


CHINESE  VS.  EUROPEAN  CIVILIZA- 
TION. 
The  following  are  some  of  the  Chinese 
criticisms  of  European  customs  :  ' '  Thej' 
will  live  weeks  and  months  without  touch- 
ing a  mouthful  of  rice,  but  they  eat  the 
flesh  of  bullocks  and  sheep  in  enormous 
quantities.  This  is  why  they  smell  so  bad- 
ly; they  smell  like  sheep  themselves.  Xor 
do  they  eat  their  meat  in  small  pieces.  It 
is  carried  into  the  room  in  large  chunks, 
often  half  raw,  and  then  they  cut  and  slash 
and  tear  it  apart.  They  eat  with  kniw-s  and 
prongs;  it  makes  a  civilized  person  per- 
fectly nervous.  One  fancies  himself  in  the 
presence  of  sword  swallowers.  They  e\ea 
sit  down  at  the  same  table  with  women, 
and  the  latter  are  served  first.—/..  D'g'^sl. 
Aug.-Sep. 


d  by  Google 


f 


rdb 


THE    NORTH-WEST   CLIMATE. 

The  Rev.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Late  has  reached 
Olympia,  Wash.,  and  is  delighted  with  the 
country  and  climate.  She  writes  under 
date  of  June  23rd,  1898: 

"  I  am  located  In  a  lovely  place,  over- 
looking Puget  Sound  ;  I  have  a  little  cot- 
tage, surrounded  by  roses,  and  berries  and 
now  expect  to  rest  all  summer,  and  take 
sunbaths  and  sleep.  We  have  no  electric- 
al storms—only  two  times  distant  rolls  of 
thunder  in  the  twomonths.  The  view  here 
is  charming,  and  all  Is  peaceful  and  quiet. 
Cherries  are  just  ripening,  and  all  small 
fruits  are  to  be  had  In  abundance." 
DEEP   PLOWING     AND    MOISTURE. 

Too  late  for  the  currant  year  it  will  be 
worth  while  to  observe  for  next  season  and 
ever  after  that  where  heavy  soil  of  great 
body  is  naturally,  or  with  tile,  underdrain- 
ed,  hoed  crops  may  advantageously  be  cul- 
tivated with  a  lifting  subsoil  plow  in  a 
droughty  season.  Forty  years  ago  a  severe 
drought  afflicted  the  Eastern  states.  Pro- 
fessor J.  J.  Mapes,  a  noted  trucker  near 
Newark,  N.  J.  then  had  his  well  drained, 
strong  land  cultivated  with  a  subsoiler,  A 
committee  of  practiced  men  inspected  this 
&mi  after  nine  weeks  of  drought  and  found 
everything  as  flourishing  as  though  there 
had  been  plenty  of  rain.  His  com  (on  Sep. 
3rd)  was  estimated  at  90  bus.  per  acre, 
while  on  ground  cultivated  the  ugual  way, 
near  by,  it  was  all  burnt  up.  Timely  and 
careful  deep  stirring  the  soil  beneath  the 
line  of  the  turning  plow,  and  thus  allowing 
taproots  and  laterals  to  strike  deeply  beyond 
reach  of  searching  sun  will  lessen  the  effect 
of  protracted  heat.  Wherever  warm  air 
cotnee  in  contact  with  a  body  cooler  than 
1S98 


itself,  the  moisture  in  hot,  humid  air  con- 
dences  into  drops.  Fogs  and  dews  are 
made  thus,  and  most  of  our  rain  rising  from 
the  Gulf  in  those  heavy  currents  of  warm 
air,  full  of  moisture,  tends  down  and  all 
through  it,  if  let  in  by  capillary  attraction 
caused  by  suitable  mechanical  action.  I 
have  been  over  that  famous  farm  and  have 
noted  the  condition  of  soil  close  by,  not  so 
tilled.  It  was  easy  to  conceive  the  unavail- 
ability during  very  dry  weather.  No  an- 
chorage for  roots,  no  let  up.  Hence  shriv- 
eling and  no  fruiting.  The  wider  the  wing 
of  the  subsoiler,  and  the  less  acute  the  angle 
that  the  moldboard  Is  set  up  with  the  sole 
or  bottom,  the  more  effectual  will  the  work 
be. — R.  Hecker. 

FRUIT  GROWING   ON  FARMS. 

Frank  H.  Sweet  of  R.  I.  claims  in  J?«m/ 
Home  that  fruit  is  a  most  important  crop 
to  the  farmer,  adding  not  only  to  his  in- 
come but  to  the  beauty  and  value  of  his 
farm.  That  it  yields  more  for  the  outlay 
than  any  other  crop :  Dozens  of  farmers 
in  his  neighborhood  received  in  one  year 
from  $i.ooto?5.oo  for  fruit  that  had  not 
cost  them  an  outlay  of  Jr. 00  to  grow. 

Peas  and  cherrj'  trees  may  be  classed  with 
apple  trees  as  requiring  but  little  labor,  but 
peach  trees  are  more  exacting.  Grape 
vines  also  are  very  productive  with  but 
small  amount  of  labor.  The  small  fruits, 
however,  require  considerable  labor  and 
attention  but  even  these  require  less  labor 
than  farm  crops.  A  comfortable  living 
has  been  made  off  one  acre  of  strawberries. 
Compact  culture  concentrating  the  labor  on 
a  small  space,  is  a  great  saving  to  the  farmer 
and  this  is  why  fruit  cnlttire  is  desirable  as 
a    matter  of    fiirm  economy.     Mr.  Sweet 

125 


d  by  Google 


rrOOD  HONEvf^  GARDENl 


'mSMm 


concludes  that  tniit  tultuaiion  will  be 
entered  upon  more  and  more.  That  over 
production  need  not  be  feared  as  the  de- 
mand is  increasing  with  the  supply  and 
facilities  for  sending  to  market. 
GROWING  NUTS. 

The  Peanut  being  an  annual  can  be  pro- 
duced in  full  crop  the  same  season  as 
planted,  whereas  the  pecan,  walnut  &c.  re- 
quire from  five  to  ten  years  before  a  profit- 
able crop  can  be  expected.  There  is  plenty 
of  cheap  land  in  the  south  suitable  for  this 
crop.  The  Secretary  of  Agriculture  in 
Washington  will  afford  all  information  on 
Peanut  Culture.     Write  hira. 

Those  who  desire  to  cultivate  Pecans 
should  write:  Herbert  Post,  Fort  Worth, 
Texas,  an  experienced  grower  of  Pecan 
trees.  A  beginner  could  start  Peanuts  in 
the  Spring  and  plant  Pecans  in  the  Fall. 
He  can  make  his  Peanut  crop  keep  him 
while  waiting  for  Pecan  trees  to  grow  and 
bear. 
HOW  TOMATOES  ARE  PRESERVED. 

In  almost  every  house  and  cottage  in  Italy 
the  preserving  of  tomatoes  is  carried  on. 
Terraces,  balconies,  and  even  the  flat  roofs 
of  the  houses  are  half  covered  with  plates 
containing  the  deep  red  substance.  After 
gathering,  the  tomatoes  intended  for  pre- 
serving are  spread  out  for  some  hours  in 
the  sun  till  the  skins  are  somewhat  shrunk. 
They  are  then  passed  through  a  sieve  so 
that  they  may  be  freed  both  from  seed  and 
skins.  As  they  contain  a  large  proportion 
of  water,  the  substance  which  has  been 
passed  through!  the  sieve  is  hung  in  bags, 
from  which  the  water  exudes,  and  soon  a 
pool  of  dirty-looking  water  is  formed  be- 
neath each  bag.  Strange  to  say,  it  isin.no 
way  tinged  with  red.  What  remains  in  the 
liags  has  the  consistency  of  a  very  thick 
paste.  It  is  then  salted,  the  proportion 
being  a  little  less  than   au.ounce  of  sa^t  to 

136 


a  pound  of  preserve.  It  is  then  spread  on 
flat  plates,  exposed  to  the  sun  and  stirred 
from  time  to  time  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
so  that  the  upper  part  may  not  form  a  crust, 
while  underneath  it  remains  soft.  In  the 
evening  the  contents  of  the  various  plates 
are  taken  in  and  stirred  up  together,  for  if 
moistened  by  the  night  dew  the  whole 
would  be  spoiled.  After  being  exposed  to 
the  sun  for  seven  or  eight  days,  the  same 
process  being  repeated  each  day,  the  pre 
8er\e  is  finished  and  placed  in  jars  for  wm- 
ter  use. 

In  Italy  the  ft^it  is  usually  passed 
through  a  sieve,  the  pulp  being  then  placed 
in  tins,  which  are  immediately  soldered 
down,  and  then  put  in  boiling  water  for  five 
minutes.  The  original  flavor  is  thus  re- 
tained. The  coat  of  a  small  tin  is  half  a 
franc.  So  it  is,  as  a  rule,  beyond  the  means 
of  the  poor.  The  price  of  the  preserve  is 
seldom  more  than  sixteen  cents  a  pound, 
and  a  little  of  it  goes  very  far ;  but  those 
who  are  thrifty  take  care  to  make  it  for 
themselves,  the  cost  then  being  absolutely 
insignificant. — Chambers's  Journal. 
THE   BANANA. 

There  are  several  different  varieties  of 
bananas.  Some  are  plantains  or  cooking 
bananas,  which  are  served  fried,  baked, 
boiled  and  in  soups  and  dressings;  but  of 
the  sweet  varieties  the  large  yellow  and  the 
red  are  most  known.  A  variety  known  tn 
Mexico  as  the  Costa  Rica,  is  much  liked. 

In  India  ttiere  is  a  small  short  variety 
known  as  the  "cheena  chumpa,  or  sugar 
lump  variety.  They  are  small,  but  of  most 
excellent  flavor.  The  banana  grows  any- 
where in  Mexico  from  sea  level  loan  eleva- 
tion of  5000  feet,  but  it  thrives  best  on  low 
and  alluvial  land,  and  does  well  on  quite 
sandy  land.  The  principal  expense  attend- 
ant upou  banana  raising  is  the  clearing  and 
preparing  the  soil . 

Aug.-Sep.. 


d  by  Google 


THE  STORY  OF  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN. 

CHAPTER  II. 

EVEN  while  an  apprentice  or  what  has  been  vulgarly 
called  "a  printer's  devil,"  Franklin  soon  became  a 
very  useful  hand  in  the  office  of  the  AWc'  England 
Courier  and  in  the  absence  of  his  brother  was  occasion- 
ally entrusted  with  the  make  up  of  the 
paper.  His  brother  made  .some  injudi- 
cious remarks  in  his  paper  for  which  he 
was  imprisoned.  Benjamin  was  then 
entrusted  with  the  entire  management  of 
thebusiness.  But  when  his  brother  was 
released,  fearing  Benjamin  would  pre- 
sume   too  much   on    his    advancement, 

thought  it  necessary  to  let  him  know  that  he  was  still  an  apprentice 
I  and  treated  Benjamin  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  his  position  intoler- 
able. Benjamin  found  himself  bound  to  his  brother  hut  considered 
that  was  no  rea.son  why  he  should  be  treated  with  cruelty.  He  knew 
that  his  brother  could  prevent  his  getting  employment  in  any  other 

Printing  Office  in  Boston,  so  he  deter- 
mined to  seek  employment  in  another 

city.     He  became    a  tramp,  carrying 

his  bundle  on  his  back,  he  started  afoot 

as  seen  in  the  illustration.    This  showed  ^ 

that  he  would  not  submit  to  oppression 

even  from  his  brother. 

After  many  interesting  incidents  Ben- 
jamin  reached  Philadelphia  with   only 

a   few  pence  in  his  pocket.     He  pur-  , 

chased  three   rolls  and  with  one  under 

each  arm  and   eating  the  third  he  was 

seen  in  Philadelphia  by  the  young  lady  \ 

who  afterwards  became  his  wife.     He  ^ 

returned  to  the  steamer  which  had  con- "; 

veyed  him  to  Philadelphia    and    seeing  v- 

on   board  a  widow  with  a  little  boy  he'^, 

gave  them  one  of  the  rolls.  g 

When   he   wrote   his   autobiography* 

he  referred   to    these   incidents  of  his^ 

early  life.      With   regard  to   boarding  ■ 

himself  while   working  for  his  brother 

be  remarked  i 

"  I  had  the  rest  of  the  time  till  their 

return   for  study  in  which  I    made    the 

greater    progrf  ss  from  the   clearness    of 

head  and   quicker   apprehension  which 

generally   attend   temperance  in  eating 

and  drinking." 

1898  127 


.V  Google 


CHAPTER    III. 

FRANKLIN  was  a  quick  and   accurate  compositor  aud  this  secured  him  employment 
at  the  printing  office  of  Mr.   Bradford  in  Philadelphia.     He  was  a  strong,  robust 
youth   as  is   shown  by  the  following  incident :     He   went  rowing  on  the  Delaware 
with  three  other  boys  one  of  whom  was  so   indolent  that   he   refused  to  do  his  share 
of  the  rowing  and  was  so  overbearing  that  he  threatened    Franklin   that    he  would    throw 
him  overboard  ifhe  did  not  row  him  ashore.     Franklin   clappedhis  head  under  him  and 
rising,  pitched   him  head  foremost   into  the  river.     Franklin   knew  that  be  could  swim. 
and  on    bis  promise  to  do  his  share    of  the    rowing  was 
taken  aboard, 
r       One   of  his  familiar  friends   named   Keimer,   wore  his 
-beard   at   full   length  because  of  the  Nazarite  injunction 
not  to  "  mar  the  corners  of  the  beard."     He  also  kept  the 
seventh  day  Sabbath,   believing  it  to  be  required   by  the 
Mosaic  law,  as  it  certainly  is.     Keimer  desired  to  start  a 
■  new   religious  denomination   and  wished   Franklin,  who 
had   become  a   keen   Socratic  debator,  to   assist   him   in 
maintaining,    by   skilful   argumentation,  the  new  creed. 
But    Keimer   was   usually   a   great   eater,  and  Franklin 
'   wanted  to  see  what  effect   a   Vegetarian  diet  would  have 
upon  him,  thinking   it  would  be  good  fun  to  starve  him  a 
little.     So   he  offered   a  compromise   with   him  by 
agreeing  to  abstain  from  shaving,  and  to  observe  the 
seventh  day  as  Sabbath,  provided  Keimer  would  ac- 
cept the  Tryon  doctrine  and  abstain  from  flesh  meat. 
He  consented  if  Franklin  would  keep  him  company. 
This  may  be  perhaps  regarded  as  the  first  attempt  to 
convert  a  man  to  Vegetarianism  in  America.     They 
employed  a  woman  to  furnish  them  with  food,  giving 
her  a  list  of  forty  preparations  and  recipes  into  which 
no  fish,  flesh,   or   fowl  entered.      They   found   this 
board  cost  them   only  eighteen  pence,  or  thirty-six 
cents,  a  week  each.     But  at  the  end  of  three  months, 
poor  Keimer  grew  tired  of  the  project   and  "longed 
for  the  flesh-pots  of  Egypt,"    and  ordered  roast  pig. 
He    invited    Franklin     and    two    woman    friends   to 
dine  with   him,  but  it   being  brought   too   soon   on 
the  table  and   Keimer's  appetite  getting  the  better  of 
his  politeness,  he  devoured  the  pig  before  his  invited 
guests  arrived  !  ' 

When  working  as  a  journeyman  printer  in  London,  ' 
be   was  accustomed  to  carry   two  forms  of  type   up- 
stairs,  one   in  each  hand,    while  the   other  printers 
could   only   carry   one  form  in   both  hands.     They 

wondered  how  he,  a  water  drinker,  could  do  this.  Nearly  fifty  other  printers  were 
drinkers,  and  he  expostulated  with  thi:m,  telling  them  that  to  eat  a  pennjmvorth  of  bread 
with  a  pint  of  water  would  give  them  more  strength  than  a  quart  of  beer. 

Franklin  further  relates  that,  from  his  example,  a  great  many  of  the  printers  left  their 
breakfast  of  l>eer,  l)read  and  cheese,  finding  they  could  be  supplied  from  a  neighboring 
house  with  a  large  porringer  of  hot  water  gruel  for  the  price  of  a  pt.  of  beer,  ttoee  half- 
pence. 

(To  be  continued  in  our  next   issue.) 
1  z8  Aug  .-Sep. 

Digitized  by  Google 


REV.  WM.  TAYLOR,  M.  D. 
(See  page  133.} 


db,  Google 


KARL  MANN. 
The   Champion   Walker  of  the   World - 
in  14  hours  and  11  minutes. 


d  by  Google 


Vol..  II.  New  SBRites,  No.  21.  OCTOBER,  1898.  Whole  Number  <)4. 

THE  VEGETARIAN  ATHLETIC  VICTORY 


THE  Vegetarian,  London,  publishes  a 
portrait  of  Karl  Mano,  the  hero  of  a 
bloodless  victory,  and  from  it  we 
copy  our  frontispiece  this  month. 
We  could  have  done  better  from  an  original 
photograph  had  our  German  friends  in 
Herliu  thought  to  send  us  one.  An  account 
of  the  contest  has  already  been  published, 
but  the  following  facts  will  be  interesting : 

On  Sunday,  June  26,  a  70  (English)  mile 
walking  race  took  place  near  Berlin,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Cycling  Club  of  the  well- 
known  Berlin  Union  of  Amateur  Gymnasts. 
The  starting-point  was  .\lexander  Place,  in 
thecentre  of  the  Prussian  capital,  and  the 
goal  Schonholz,  a  village  lying  in  a  north- 
easterly direction  from  the  city. 

There  were  25  entries,  17  Flesh-eaters  and 
8  Vegetarians.  All  left  together  at  4  13  in 
the  morning.  The  weather  was  unfavora- 
ble, with  heavy  rain  in  the  latter  part  of  the 
afternoon.  The  first  six  or  eight  miles 
were  over  a  good  macadamized  road,  but 
afterwards  the  route  lay  mostly  along  poor- 
ly made  country  roads  without  footpaths. 
No  pacemakers  were  allowed  ; 
Result. 


There  were  no  further  arrivals.  Nos.  5 
and  6,  it  should  be  Mientioned,  missed  the 
road,  and  walked  setcniy-five  miles  instead 
of  only  the  seventy  allotted.      With  the  ex- 


ception of  Nos.  3,  4,  5  and  6,  all  competitors 
were  gymnasts,  and  members  of  the  Berlin 
Union  of  Amateur  Gymnasts. 

Of  the  non-arrivals,  the  two  Vegetarians, 
Herren  Puschendorf  and  Bertram,  retired 
at  56  and  37  mites  respectively  ;  the  failure 
of  the  former  being  caused  by  defective 
foot-gear.  Eleven  of  the  flesh-eaters  had 
retired  before  or  shortly  after,  completion  of 
the  38th  mile. 

The  six  Vegetarians  all  came  in,  as  cer- 
tified bv  the  judges,  in  excellent  form.  The 
only  arriving  fiesh-eater,  who  finished  more 
than  half  an  hour  after  the  two  last  Vege- 
tarians (notwithstanding  their  having  made 
five  miles  more  than  he),  after  calling  for 
brandy,  put  up  in  the  village  for  the  night. 

There  appears  to  be  no  standard  road 
record  for  70  miles;  but  the  56  mile  (12 
German  mile)  record  has  now  been  beaten 
by  the  winner,  Herr  Mann,  by  20  minutes. 

Interview  with  the  Winner,  Herr 
Karl  Mann. 

"You  look  very  well,  Mr.  Mann,  how 
long  have  you  been  a  Vegetarian  ?' ' 

"I  am  in  my  5th  year  of  Vegetarianism, 
and  in  the  25th  year  of  my  life.  I  live  very 
simply,  and  am  always  trying  experiments 
in  diet.  For  instance,  for  the  past  two 
moiitlis  I  have  not  touched  pulse  of  any 
kind,  unless  green  peas  are  to  be  classed  as 
such." 

"Well,  that's  quite  against  the  ordinary 
Vegetarian  theory.      No  pulse,  no  muscle." 


1898 


d  by  Google 


>FOOD  H0i1£#^GMDEN|^^P 


"May  be  ,  but  I  doubt  if  the  current  idea 
be  correct.  I  feel  quite  well.  You  kuow  I 
have  been  living  on  the  raw  diet  for  over 
six  weeks  now.  I  eat  much  fresh  fruit  and 
vegetables.  Good  milk,  too,  I  find  a  first- 
rate  food.  As  for  wholemeal  bread,  which 
so  many  use,  I  eat  very  little  of  it.  In  my 
opinion,  we  men  shut  up  in  offices  all  day 
require  very  little  nitrogenous  food,  and 
what  albumen  is  necessary  we  can  get  more 
easily  in  other  ways." 

"And  your  raw  diet  suits  you  ?" 
"Capitally;  though  only  a  few  months 
ago  I  was  an  opponent  of  the  theory.  Ex- 
perience teaches.  I  take  three  meals  a  day. 
You  would  not  think  from  my  present 
appearance  (Mr.  Mann  possesses  a  ruddy 
and  well-tanned  complexion,  and  is  evi- 
dently a  man  of  muscle)  that  till  after  my 
iSthyearlwas  wretchedly  weak  with  no 
energy  at  all.  I  feel  now  equal  to  any 
amount  of  physical  and  mental  work,  and 
am  conscious  of  a  kind  of  superfluity  of 
health.  As  for  the  race,  I  parted  with 
little  more  than  surplus  energy." 

"And  what  was  your  actual  food  during 
the  walk?" 

"Exclusively  fresh  fruit — mostly  straw- 
berries— lettuces  plucked  from  the  field  in 
paasing,  and  then  some  bread  and  milk." 
"You  are  accustomed  to  walking  races?" 
"Oh,  no,  this  is  my  first  walking  match  ; 
nor  have  I  trained  at  all  with  the  exception 
of  several  good  walks  on  Sundays  during 
the  past  month.  But  then  I  do  a  good  bit 
of  dUTib-bell  and  similar  exercise  at  home  ; 
that  keeps  one  in  good  condition.  It  makes 
one  perspire,  so  that  the  pores  do  not 
become  obstructed.  That  is  most  import- 
ant for  health." 

"What  is  your  occupation,  Mr.  Mann?" 
"I   am   a   corresponding  clerk  and  am  at 
the  desk  nine  hours  a  day.     That  should  be 
taken  into  account." 

132 


The  uewbpaptris  say  the  walking  record 
has  been  beaten  ;  what  record  is  referred 
to?"' 

"Well,  certainly  the  statement  is  very 
vague,  I  can't  tell  you  off-hand  what  the 
records  really  are;  I've  not  been  able  to 
get  accurate  information.  At  all  events,  it 
has  been  decided  that  I  have  beaten  the  56 
mile  (12  German  mile)  record  for  road 
walking  without  pacemakers,  by  twenty 
minutes. 

"You  don't  seem  to  have  had  the  inten- 
tion, then,  of  beating  any  particular 
records  ?" 

"No,  indeed  not.  On  the  contrary,  my 
only  idea  was  to  do  a  good  square  walk, 
with  no  'scorching.'  Otherwise  I  could 
have  made  better  time.  I  slacked  down,  or 
stopped,  on  several  occasions,  to  encourage 
my  Vegetarian  colleagues  and  so  on,  and 
once  I  made  a  regular  halt  of  over  twenty 
minutes." 

"How  were  the  roads  ?" 

"The  first  seven  miles  or  so  were  on  fiist- 
rate  macadam,  but  then  came  some  wretched 
walking,  bad  roads  and  no  path.  And  then, 
again,  it  poured  with  rain  in  the  evening : 
my  last  half  hour  was  done  in  a  drenching 
rain,     I  was  dressed  in  a  thin  cotton  suit." 

"I  hear  you  were  invited  by  some  high 
military  people  to  relate  your  experience  to 
them  at  the  War  Office," 

"Yes,  but  nnofficially  invited.  During 
the  walk  I  met  some  high  officials  attached 
to  the  Ministry  of  War,  and  they  inquired 
what  race  it  was.  When  I  told  them  I  was 
a  Vegetarian  and  that  to  the  best  of  my 
knowledge  the  next  three  coming  on  were 
likewise  Vegetarians,  they  took  an  interest 
in  the  matter  and  invited  me  to  visit  them  al 
the  Ministry  of  War  the  next  day, ' ' 

"You  went,  of  course?" 

"Certainly,  and  gave  them  particulars  of 
my  diet .  And  now  they  have  asked  me  to 
October, 


d  by  Google 


mm^tfttKi^mm^ 


^FO(lfI)HONEv^GARDE:N 


send  in  a  full  report  to  the  Medical  Depart- 
ment of  the  War  Office.  It  seems  that  they 
have  been  conducting  experiments  there 
with  reference  to  diet,  for  some  time  past. 
They  are  inquiring  especially  into  the  value 
of  sugar,  I  believe." 

"Do  you  know  the  experience  of  your 
colleagues  ?' ' 

"In  general,  yes;  all  came  in  in  capital 
form.  I  am  collecting  particulars  from 
each  for  publication  in  the  sporting  journals. 
The  editor  of  the  German  Cyclist,  the  organ 
of  the  Geniiau  Cyclists'  Union,  for  instance 
has  invited  nie  to  contribute. 

"An  enthusiastic  wheeler.  I  have  won 
some  cycling  races  too.  In  September, 
1896,  there  was  the  31  (English)  Mile  Road 
Race  of  a  local  club  here,  and  in  spite  of  my 
machine  being  a  miserable  one,  I  came  in 
first  out  of  thirteen  competitors.  My  time 
was  I  hour  56  minutes.  There  was  a  dread- 
ful wind  against  us,  and  I  fell  once.  I  was 
not  paced.  The  31  Mile  Race,  (also  on 
road,  without  pacemakers, )of  the  Bicycle 
Club  of  the  Berlin  Union  of  Amateur  Gym- 
nasts, last  October,  I  also  won,  on  an 
ordinary  touring  machine.  Of  seven  com- 
petitors, I  was  first  with  i  hour  55  minutes. 
I  was  not  in  the  least  tired,  and  even  waited, 
jnst  as  I  was,  to  see  the  others  come  in. 
This  present  walking  race,  you  know,  was 
not  got  up  as  a  Vegetarian  versus  Flesh- 
eater  competition.  It  originated  with  the 
Cyclist  Club  of  the  Berlin  Union  of  Amateur 
Gymnasts.  Nineteen  members  of  the  Union 
entered,  including  Makowski  and  I,  and 
then  there  were  six  non-gymnasts,  all 
Vegetarians,  who  were  invited,  as  visitors, 
to  take  part.  The  original  idea  was  to 
prove  the  advantage  of  gymnastics  as  a 
general  training  for  the  body,  and  to  dis- 
prove the  assertion  that  cycling  incapaci- 
tates one  for  other  kinds  of  muscular  exer- 


cise.    Both  these  points  we  have  proved." 

"Well,  at  any  rate,  gymnasts  or  non- 
gymnasts,  the  flesh-eaters  have  been  left  in 
the  cold!" 


REV.  WM.  TAYLOR,  M.  D. 
In  jtistice  to  our  able  predecessor  as  pas- 
tor of  the  Bible  Christian  Church,  Philadel- 
phia, we  have  pleasure  in  publishing  on 
page  129,  a  portrait  of  Rev.  Wm.  Taylor, 
M.  D.,  who  was  not  only  a  Bible  Christian 
Minister  over  four  years,  but  a  life-long 
Vegetarian,  and  when  an  effort  was  made 
in  1880,  we  think,  to  re-organize  the  Amer- 
ican Vegetarian  Society,  our  Brother,  Dr. 
Wm.  Taylor,  was  elected  president  at  a 
convention  in  New  York,  but  nothing 
resulted  from  this  effort,  as  the  new  organi- 
zation had  no  organ,  and  soon  failed  to 
operate.  Dr.  Taylor  was  an  eloquent 
preacher,  but  becoming  a  Universalist,  he 
of  course  sought  other  fields  of  labor.  He 
was  bom  June  26,  1833,  and  died  Novem- 
ber 15,  1884. 


EDIBLE  OIL  IN  EGYPT. 
In  Egypt  and  the  Soudan,  in  India  and 
all  through  the  East  an  enormous  trade  is 
carried  on  in  vegetable  oils,  which  take  the 
place  of  our  butter  and  margarine  products. 
One  of  the  principal  edible  oils  is  obtained 
from  the  ground  nut  known  in  France  as 
"arachide  oil."  Over  1,000,000  hundred 
weight  of  these  nuts  are  annually  imported 
into  that  country  for  its  production.  Bel- 
gium also  takes  vast  quantities.  Arachide 
oil  is  an  excellent  soap-maker,  beside  being 
an  edible  oil,  and  when  cotton  oil 
is  high  in  price  will  compete  with  it  in 
this  branch  of  industry.  In  France  alone 
there  is  already  a  \'ery  large  consumption  of 
it,  to  be  counted  in  tens  of  thousands  of 
tons. 

133 


d  by  Google 


►FOOD  HONEv*"*  garden! 


A  VEGETARIAN  ON  A  JOURNEY. 

Article  V. 


By  J,  George  Heid,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 


I  returned  to  Germany  and  from  there 
went  to  Austria.  In  Vienna,  the  capitol  of 
Austria,  I  found  two  Vegetarian  restaur- 
ants,   and    both    were    a  credit  to  Veget- 


I  have  before  me  the  menu  of  the 
"Thalysia,"  which  is  printed  on  four  pages. 
The  first  page  is  tastefully  illustrated,  and 
in  the  borders  surrounding  the  illustrations 
are  little  mottoes,  etc.,  such  as  : 

"To    the    TcgcUrlui*    belong    the    future.  —  PKoi'.    A. 
"It  <■  entlnly  ui 


■ndpolnt  or  hygiene  one  must  ipprove  of 

"All  cultnre  proceed*  from  theMomech."— Pshdbhick  n. 
The  prourietor  of  the  "Thalytla"  calli  his  mlaunnl  "the 

Hrxlen^c  Vcgetsrisn  Reotaursot  and  school  for  the  hygienic 

pUniiby  thesyaieni  ofthe  Medical  Direcror,  K.  Lahmann.'' 

The  second  and  third  pages  of  this  bill  of 
fare  are  devoted  to  an  immense  variety  of 
dishes  to  select  from,  such  as  fruits,  veget- 
ables, soups,  salads,  bread,  rolls,  pastry  and 
non- intoxicating  beverages  of  many  de- 
scriptions. 

The  borders  are  surrounded  by  many 
mottoes,  such  as : 

enlertaiu  here  with  innoccnl  food  Ihe  hongry  guest." 
of  cannibaliam."— A.  von  Hcjiboldt. 

These,  and  many  others,  form  part  of  the 
border.  As  I  translate  these  from  the  Ger- 
man,   the    phraseology    may    be    slightly 

altered,  but  I  can  vouch  for  the  exact 
meaning  being  preser\-ed.  The  fourth  page 
is  devoted  to  addresses  of  Vegetarian  Res- 
taurants all  over  Austria.  Hungary,  Ger- 
many and  Switzerland. 

Austria  was  the  only  country  in  which  I 
iniiinl  ears  of  green  corn  Ker\-ed  in  the  res- 
taurants :  they  may  have  been   in    restanr- 

•  34 


ants  in  France  and  England  in  season.  In 
Austria  they  call  roast  corn  on  the  ear 
"Kukumtz,"  so  I  was  soon  able  to  order  it. 
Com  per  ear  costs  lo  kreuzers  (not  quite  4 
cents),  the  tenth  part  of  a  florin.  A  florin 
is  39  cents. 

In  Austria,  bread  in  Vegetarian  restaur- 
ants was  charged  for  extra.  A  basket  of 
bread  and  rolls  is  placed  on  the  table,  and 
the  guest  is  asked  how  many  rolls,  or  slices 
of  bread  he  has  eaten,  and  his  word  being 
taken  for  it,  a  kreuzer  (a  little  over  one- 
third  of  a  cent)  per  large  thick  slice  of 
bread,  or  per  small  roll  is  added  to  the  bill. 

In  France,  I  did  not  find  any  Vegetarian 
restaurants,  not  even  in  Paris.  I  lived 
principally  on  oranges,  and  occasionally 
potatoes,  poached  or  boiled  eggs  and  rolls 
or  bread.  I  found  living  there  very  expen- 
sive ;  fruits  at  that  time  of  the  year  (De- 
cember) scarce ;  oranges,  such  as  were  fit 
to  eat,  cost  25  centimes  (5  cents)  a  piece, 
and  other  articles  in  proportion. 

In  Paris  and  Versailles,  breakfast,  con- 
sisting of  a  cup  of  coffee,  bread  and  butter 
or  rolls,  costs  one  franc  (70  cents)  to  which 
must  be  added  10  centimes,  being  the 
gratuity  one  is  expected  to  give  the  waiter. 
This  last,  however,  is  expected  by  servants 
in  all  European  countries. 

England  seems  the  country  for  Vegetar- 
ians, for,  not  only  are  there  so  many  Veget- 
arian restaurants  everywhere,  but  other 
restaurants  offer  such  varieties  of  fruits  and 
vegetables,  and  at  such  reasonable  prices 
that  one  may  live  cheaply  there.  In  Lon- 
don, the  directory  places  a  *  for  Vegetarian 
restaurants,  to  distinguish  them  from  the 
non- Vegetarian  ones.  A  German  guide- 
book of  London  gave  the  names  of  several 
Vegetarian  restaurants,  not  in  the  I,ondon 
director^.',  which  I  found  to  be  very  good. 

In  London,  non- Vegetarian  restaurants 
are  open  on  Sunday,  but  none  dare  to 
October 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


serve  intoxicants  on  that  day.  Vegetarian 
restaurants  all  close  on  Sunday,  but  Veg- 
etarians can  make  out  very  well,  as  non- 
Vegetarian  restaurants  make  special  efforts 
to  serve  them  on  Sundays.  In  one  of  these 
I  had  two  poached  eggs,  stewed  tomatoes, 
stewed  mushrooms  and  green  peas,  includ- 
ing bread,  all  for  two  shillings  and  one 
penny  (25  cents),  to  this  add  three  pence 
to  the  waiter,  though  on  week  daj-s,  one 
penny  to  each  shilling  is  the  customary 
gratuity. 

Fruits  were  very  cheap  and  plentiful  in 
London.  A  good  orange  can  be  had  for 
one  penny  (2  cents)  or  a  shilling  per  dozen 
(24  cents),  and  bananas,  which  are  so  scarce 
and  high  on  the  continent,  can  be  bought  at 
a  shilling  a  dozen  for  fine  ones,  while  in 
Frankford-on-the-Main,  Germany,  I  had  to 
pay  twice  that  amount  for  inferior  bananas, 
Eveu  in  January  they  have,  in  London, 
grapes,  prunes  and  other  fruits  at  reason- 
able prifces. 

On  my  return  I  took  the  Steamer  "St. 
Paul"  to  America;  we  made  the  trip  in 
seven  days  and  I  found  it  very  pleasant  on 
this  streamer.  The  fare  was  excellent,  and 
Vegetarians  could  fare  sumptuously,  the 
treatment  generally  was  good,  and  there 
were  no  oiEcers  on  board  the  steamer  to 
insult  passengers  whose  views  differed  from 
their  own.  I  take  pleasure  in  recommend- 
ing the  American  line  of  steamers  to  all 
tourists. 


ADMITTED  TENDENCY  TO  V.  DIET. 

Prof.  Goldwin  Smith,  of  Cornell  Univer- 
sity, writing  in  the  Toronto  Weekly  Sun : 

"In  a  seventy  miles  walking  race  in 
Germany,  the  Vegetarians  have  shown  a 
remarkable  superiority  in  endurance  over 
the  eaters  of  meat.  There  is  notliing  new 
in  this ;  extraordinary  journeys  are  made 
by  the  Hindoo  palanquin -bearer,  whose 
1898 


only  food  is  rice.  There  is  probably  a 
gradual  tendency  on  the  whole  to  Veget- 
arian diet.  It  does  not  appear  that  animal 
food  is  absolutely  essential  to  any  function 
of  the  human  body  or  brain.  No  man  did 
a  better  day's  bodily  work  than  the  British 
farm  laborer  when  he  had  no  meat  but  a 
taste  of  bacon.  No  man  ever  did  a  greater 
amount  of  brain  work  than  a  monastic  saint, 
who  was  forbidden  meat  by  the  rules  of  his 
order.  No  man  ever  produced  higher  fruits 
of  his  imagination  than  Shelley,  who  was 
a  devout  Vegetarian.  A  much  greater 
amount  of  vegetable  than  of  animal  food  can 
be  produced  on  a  given  area.  The  inclina- 
tion of  taste  as  human  nature  grows  more 
refined  points  the  same  way.  Homeric 
heroes  eat  masses  of  meat,  apparently  with- 
out vegetables  ;  and  to  the  bard  of  that  day 
the  picture  of  the  shambles  is  not  less  con- 
genial than  that  of  the  harvest  or  the 
vintage'.  To  us,  the  details  of  the  shambles 
are  abhorrent.  We  require  vegetables  with 
our  meat,  while  there  is  a  tendency  to  dis- 
guise the  meat  itself  by  elaborate  cookery. 
On  the  whole,  it  seems  probable  that  pro- 
gressive Vegetarianism  is  the  rule,  though 
there  will  be  no  sudden  leap,  nor  will  the 
Vegetarian  think  it  his  duty  to  enforce  this 
habit  onus  by  law." 

NORMAL  AND  FEVER  HEAT. 

I  write  to  tell  you,  as  you  have  been  so 
kind  inquiring  about  my  health,  that  since 
the  weather  has  been  so  warm,  I  have  dis- 
continued entirely  meat-eating  ;  that  I  am 
so  much  better,  although  the  tiredness  is 
still  with  me.  I  do  not  need  heat  now,  my 
only  reason  for  indulging  in  animal  food 
being  for  its  heating  effect. — M.  S.  E., 
May  20,  1898. 

The  above  is  from  a  ven*  intelligent 
young  lady  in  Philadelphia,  who  is  afflicted 
nervously,  and  who  in  winter  suffers  fioin 
cold.  We  replied  that  corn  meal  has  Die 
effect  of  promoting  nalitral  heat,  while  liwit 
obtained  from  animal  food  is  of  a  feverish 
character  and  highly  irritating  to  the  nerves. 

135 


d  by  Google 


a  '■'  ■(    I     -  -■in  I  I     ■'    ■''-  -"i — '"■''^^ 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


Veobtaiiak 

St.,     StilloB  F,  (Not 

to  Cbcstniff  St.)   P 

h<lidelphl 

rod 

RHV. 

HKNS 

V  S.   CLCBB.   Edll 

jr. 

One  SubKrIptlon 

jocts 

,  four  SubKTipt Ions 

|..».T 

■.r. 

.tdrerliiiiicDts 

per 

foe,    oae    Irncrtl 

For  lallnct  I  'ni 

Per  page,  inifde 

a     lo  centi, 
ertloo  Si.oo. 

The  article  published  on  page  142  is  now 
re-published  in  Our  Postscript  No.  2,  and  is 
oneofaseries  amplifying  the  Synopsis  pub- 
blishedasOur  Postscript  No.  i.  We  earnest- 
ly ask  our  friends  to  aid  us  in  circulating 
these  leaflets.  There  is  room  in  almost  every 
envelope  mailed  for  one  or  more  of  them. 

We  are  receiving  suggestions  for  extend- 
ing otu"  Synopsis.  Mrs.  McGeorge  su^ests 
"Thou  shall  not  kill."  The  Chicago  Veg- 
etarian suggests  the  poisonous  ptomains  in 
flesh.  We  are  glad  to  get  these  suggestions. 
We  intend  to  devote  separate  tracts  to  these 
subjects  ifwe  are  sustained  in  our  efforts. 

The  account  of  Dona  Ana  Co.,  N.  M., 
given  by  the  Governor  to  the  Department  of 
the  Interior,  fully  justifies  the  claim  of  our 
Vegetarian  friends  who  reside  there  and 
who  have  1000  acres  devoted  to  the  excel- 
lent charity  of  providing  a  Vegetarian  home 
for  destitute  and  neglected  children.  (See 
page  141-)        

The  growing  of  bananas  in  Mexico  is  a 
profitable  business  (see  page  i4i)and  shows 
what  can  be  done  in  Southern  Texas, 
Louisiana,  Florida,  Cuba  and  Porto  Rica. 
Now  that  dried  bananas  are  made  into  fiour 
and  thence  into  bread,  the  banana  industry 
is  practically  an  unlimited  occupation  for 
the  surplus  laborers  of  our  country.  Mil- 
lions of  acres  of  cheap  land  can  be  thu.i  made 
productive. 

•36 


Ten  thousand  murders  a  year  in  the 
United  States,  while  in  India  and  Japan, 
where  Buddhism  and  Vegetarianism  prevail, 
murders  are  seldom  heard  of.  These 
countries  are  at  the  bottom  of  the  list  of 
civilized  countries  as  to  the  number  of  mur- 
ders. Yet  we  are  sending  missionaries  from 
America  to  teach  tljem  our  civilization  and 
religion.  They  are  fortunately  sending 
Buddhist  teachers  here  to  save  us. 


The  Child  Life  (Kansas  City,  Mo.)  gives 
a  picture  of  two  fashionable  ladies  with  birds 
and  birds'  wings  prominent  on  their  hats, 
accompanied  by  the  following  ftxjm  the 
Queen's  Daughter  : 

Mre  Make  Kill.— "That  was  the  finest 
sermon  on  human  kindness  I  ever  listened 
to." 

Mrs,  Birdie  Wing. — "Yes,  indeed.  I  feel 
as  if  we  ought  to  have  it  published  and  send 
it  to  the  heathen."  CAi/d  Life  is  fiill  of 
good  things,  original  and  selected,  and  is 
neatly  illustrated. 


An  English  paper  describes  Sweden  as 
having  poor  people  who  bake  their  rye 
bread  so  hard  that  it  will  last  good  six 
months.  In  I,apland  the  inner  bark  of  the 
pine  is  mixed  with  oats  in  grinding.  In 
Kamtschatka,  pine  or  pine  brush  alone 
well  macerated,  pounded  and  baked  consti- 
tute the  native  bread  food.  The  Icelander 
grinds  the  moss  into  fine  flotu-  and  it  serves 
for  bread  and  puddings.  In  Italy  chestnuts 
are  used  for  bread.  In  Armenia  clo\-er 
seed  and  linseed  meal  are  mixed  with  edible 
grass  and  made  into  bread . 


The  experience  of  Hert  Mann,  the 
champion  walker  of  the  world,  as  related 
in  the  interview  on  puge  132,  seems  to  favor 
the  uncooked  food  ideas  of  Prof.  Spenco", 
Rev.   Isaac  B.   Rumford  and  other   Edenic 

October, 

DigiTizsdbyGoOgle 


IFOODHOMEs^  garden! 


diet  advocates.  It  is  not  improbable  that 
too  much  importance  has  been  attached  to 
solid  nitrogenoos  food,  such  as  pulse,  and 
whole  wheat  and  that  we  are  apt  to  use 
more  such  food  than  is  required  for  vigor. 
The  vitality  in  fresh  frnits,  nuts  and  such 
vegetables  as  can  be  eaten  without  cooking 
may  be  more  important  than  nitrogen  for 
nerve  energy. 


The  scientific  world  is  slowly  coming  to 
the  acknowledgment  that  the  Vegetarian 
principle  is  correct,  being  forced  to  it  by 
undisputed  facts.  The  most  candid  of  the 
scientists,  like  Prof.  Golden  Smith  (see 
page  135),  are  already  acknowledging  the 
tendency  to  a  Vegetarian  diet  and  now 
admit  it  is  not  new.  They  of  course  knew 
it  long  ago.  Then  why  did  they  not  teach 
it?  Why  stand  on  carnivorous  grounds 
nntil  beaten  by  brave  young  men  like  Karl 
Mann  and  then  have  to  admit  they  knew  it 
before  ?  Verily,  it  is  a  truth  that  the  world 
is  pr<^Tessing,  not  through  the  teachings  of 
the  schools  of  learning  but  in  spite  of  it,  the 
schools,  like  the  flesh-eaters  in  the  yo-mile 
race,  either  not  reaching  the  goal  at  all,  or 
in  one  solitary  case  coming  in  only  after  the 
race  has  been  won  1 


DELIGHT  IN  SUFFERING. 
Always  kill  a  wounded  bird  or  other 
animal  as  soon  as  you  can.  All  suffering  of 
any  creature,  just  before  it  dies,  poisons  the 
meat. — Geo.  T.  Angell,  in  Our  Dumb 
Animals.  This  is  true,  and  as  all  animals 
suffer  before  they  die,  all  meat  is  poisoned. 
But  it  is  the  poison  in  meat  that  gives  it  its 
piquent  flavor,  which  is  the  chief  cause  of 
the  preference  for  this  stimulating  food. 
Suffering,  therefore,  causes  the  chief  delight 
of  flesh-eating. 


Our  esteemed  friend,  John  Keidel,  of  Ber- 
lin, who  expects  soon  to  come  to  the  United 
States  to  settle  permanently,  has  sent  us  a 
pamphlet  which  our  friend,  Rudolph  Heck- 
er,  translates  as  being  on  "Masculine  Loy- 
alty Respecting  Continence."  The  gist  of 
which  is  that  half-grown  and  adult  mascu- 
lina  and  feminina  should  be  under  the  same 
obligations  as  to  chastity  before  mankind 
and  their  creatorand  that  fitnes.s  and  potency 
should  be  required  of  all  entering  the  mar- 
riage relation.  Should  any  of  our  German 
readers  desire  the  book  we  think  we  can 
procure  it  for  them  for  twenty-five  cents. 


ORIGIN  OF  "VEGETARIAN." 
The  Vegetarian  Messenger  and  Review, 
England,  is  discussing  the  term  "Vegetar- 
ian" and  who  originated  the  word.  When 
we  became  acquainted  with  James  Simpson 
and  the  Bible  Christians  in  1S47-48,  and 
white  associated  with  them  for  several 
years  thereafter,  it  was  understood  that  the 
word  was  first  adopted  by  James  Simpson 
and  applied  by  him  to  those  who  simply 
abstained  from  the  flesh  of  animals.  Our 
opinion,  therefore,  b  that  we  are  indebted 
to  James  Simpson  for  the  combination 
"Vegetarian."  He  was  a  very  modest  man 
and  would  claim  nothing  for  himself,  but 
this  certainly  was  the  inference  at  the  time 
taken  in  his  presence,  and  he  never  denied 
it,  that  we  ever  heard.  We  frequently 
heard  the  name  discussed  at  the  dinner- 
table  at  Foxhill  Bank,  Mr.  Simpson's 
country  seat. 


THE  CAUSES  OF  WAR. 
Our  Animal  Friend,  in  an  able  article, 
attributes  the  war  with  Spain  to  the  cruelt>' 
of  the  Spanish  nation  in  the  treatment  of  its 
colonies  and  the  cruelty  '  it  traces  to  the 
education  received  by  the  inhuman  treat- 
ment of  animals  and  the  national  delight  in 
such  sports  as  bull -fighting.  It  describes  a 
pillow  trimmed  with  lace :  on  one  side  was 
an  embroidered  picture  of  the  crucifixion: 
October. 

Lin..  I  ,CooQle 


iFOOIJHOME^'GARBENi 


on  tlie  other  a  picture  of  a  bull-fight,  show- 
ing that  bloody  scenes  are  delighted  in  evpu 
by  refined  ladies.  We  endorse  these  re- 
marks and  we  go  further  and  declare  that 
this  cruelty  of  disposition  is  fostered  and 
maintained  by  eating  the  flesh  of  the  vic- 
tims. Nothing  nourishes  a  cruel  heartless 
disposition  like  feeding  on  the  flesh  of 
animals  slaughtered  for  that  purpose. 


SUMMER  REFORM  SCHOOL. 
I  am  just  returned  from  Greenacre  Assem- 
bly, Me.,  where  Sarah  J.  Farmer  gave  five 
days  to  the  cause  of  peace  and  arbitration.  I 
write  to  let  you  know  what  a  lovely  and 
helpful  occasion  it  was.  You  and  your 
family  must  go  sometime.  Sarah  Farmer 
is  a  verj'  noble  woman  and  she  furnishes 
notes  along  the  great  "harmonies  of  life." 
She  is  a  believer  and  practices  entire  absti- 
nence from  flesh-meat,  and  this  summer 
slie  has  a  lady  to  prepare  for  her  many 
guests  food  and  instruction  on  this  line. 
The  lady  is  Mrs.  Banister,  from  Texas. 
I  hope  next  summer  Mystic  can  be  opened 
early  in  the  season.  Think  of  the  thous- 
ands in  the  city  who  would  flock  there. — 
Rev.  Amanda  Deyo,  1305  Arch  St.,  Phila. 


among  Vegetarians.  People  of  refined 
tastes,  who  are  weary  of  the  crash  and  con- 
flict of  the  competitive  system,  and  the 
limitations  of  the  crowded  cities,  will  find 
here  an  almost  ideal  location.  The  follow- 
ing lines  embody,  faintly,  my  random 
thoughts,  and  were  penned,  spontaneously, 
while  viewing  one  of  our  characteristic 
sunsets : 

IN  FAIR  OLVMPIA. 

Thcpeawji'rofoiind  thai  all  mnBl  tte\, 
ThcgaLd-red^y  wheu  dByUdone. 
The  IhouMnd  glories,  nlghu  rereal : 


A  CALL  TO  OLYMPIA. 
By  Rkv.  H.  S.  Lake. 
I  have  often  thought  of  our  eastern  friends 
during  the  summer  just  passed.  We  who, 
here,  have  the  advantage  of  a  mild  and 
equable  climate,  freedom  from  electrical 
disturbances,  a  magnificent  view  of  forests, 
mountains  and  the  superb  waters  of  Puget 
Sound,  may  well  sympathize  with  those 
who  freeze  with  the  snows  of  winter,  and 
faint  with  the  heat  of  summer,  in  the  states 
nearer  the  rising  sun.  Then,  too,  we  are 
blessed  with  an  abundance  of  the  choicest 
food,  and  I  would  earnestly  impress  upon 
those  who  seek  a  more  secluded  and  sitis- 
fyiiii;  conilition.  that  it  miy  be  foun.l  in 
Western  Washington,  I  should  be  glad  to 
hear  fro  n  persons  who  lilce  rural  life,  anl 
who   would    care   for  associated    interests 

138 


This  now  mynaiig.  thiBilow  t 
OlTmpia.Waili.,(Bo»  soij.Sept  5.  "S^S- 


OBITUARY. 

Longshore. — On  August  19,  1S98, 
Thomas  Elwood  Longshore,  Philadelphia, 
at  the  age  of  88. 

Our  departed  friend  was  an  earnest  re- 
former and  an  e.ttensive  and  able  contribu- 
tor to  reform  periodicals,  as  well  as  author 
of  several  critical  theological  works,  of 
which  The  Hi<j;her  Criticism  is  the  mosl 
elaborate.  Our  last  issue  contained  a  strong 
article  from  liis  pen.  He  was  a  wann  per- 
sonal friend  and  we  were  expecting  a  nsit 
froTi  bin  at  the  time  his  death  was  an- 
nounced. He  appeared  well  a  few  weeks 
previously  when  he  paid  us  a  visit,  whicb 
proved  his  last 

WiLLiVMS.— On  the  2d  of  \ugust,  rS^S. 
H--1l-u  Isibella,  the  voungest  daughter  of 
Horace  C.  anl  Isabella  H.  Williams,  of 
Frankford,  Pbiladelphia. 

There  is  no  ■ieaih  lo  mow  who  love ; 
liOTC  Is  itaeir  Immortal  t 

October, 

DbiTizsd  by  Google 


4 


DINNER    MENU. 

Sw«et  Potato   Soup. 

Stuffed  Squuh.  Baked  Egg  Plant. 

FHetl    Tomaton.         Boiled  Cabbage. 

Cracker  Nul  Sandwiches.  Gratiam    Bread. 

Rice    Dumpling. 

P«*ra.  Grapes.  Apple*. 

RECIPES. 
Fried  Tomatoes. — Select  firm  tomatoes, 
cut  in  half  and  fry  with  the  cut  side  upper- 
most, in  Nutcoa.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
when  cooked  turn ,  pour  some  cream  over 
and  reheat.     Serve  immediately. 

From  Mr.  Rl-Siard  MEddleton. 

To  Boil  Cabbage  (Odorless.) — Cut  cab- 
bage up  into  small  pieces,  let  it  stand  an 
hour  in  salted  water.  Have  pan  of  boiling 
water  ready — drop  in  the  cabbage,  handful 
at  a  time,  if  water  stops  boiling  wait  until 
it  begins  again,  then  resume.  Do  not  put 
the  pan  lid  on. 

Prom  &-.V^«  .>  IMr  Kilchm. 

Sweet  Potato  Soup. — To  a  pt.  of  cold 
mashed  sweet  potatoes  add  a  pt.  and  }^  of 
strained  stewed  tomato,  rub  together 
through  a  colander,  add  salt  to  season,  and 
half  a  cup  of  cream. 

Rice  Dumpling. — Steam  i  cupful  of  rice 
till  tender  and  line  an  oiled  earthen  pud- 
ding dish,  pressing  it  up  around  the  sides 
and  over  the  bottom.  Fill  this  with  rather 
tart  apples  cut  in  small  slices ;  cover  with 
rice,  and  steam  until  the  apples  are  tender. 
Let  stand  until  cold,  then  turn  from  the 
dish,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Grape  Juice. — 8  Its.  of  perfect  Concord 
grapes.  Wash  and  stem,  put  in  a  porce- 
lain or  agate  kettle,  and  add  a  qt.  of  cold 
water.  Put  on  to  boil  over  a  good  fire, 
mash  the  grapes  with  a  spoon.  Boil  15 
minutes,  remove  from  the  fire  and  strain 
through  a  jelly  bag.  To  every  qt.  of  juice 
1898 


add  half  a  lb.  of  granulated  sugar,  boil  12 
minutes,  removing  any  scum  that  may 
arise,  fill  heated  bottles  and  seal  while  hot. 

While  in  Washington  visiting  Mrs. 
Parkman,  we  were  delighted  with  her  many 
original  ideas  in  regard  to  Vegetarian 
cookery  and  the  pleasing  variety  thereby 
afforded  for  the  table.  Below  are  two  reci- 
pes for  dishes  which  we  found  very  appe- 
tizing, we  wish  to  state  that  the  recipeh 
are  not  worded  by  Mrs,  P.  but  are  simply 
our  remembrance  of  the  way  we  saw  her 
prepare  them. 

Fruit  Mush. — Prepare  Wheatena  mush 
according  to  directions  on  the  package. 
Have  some  dried  plums,  stewed,  sweetened 
and  strained  and  stir  into  the  mush :  boil 
the  whole  a  little  longer  and  it  is  then 
ready  for  serving. 

Stuffed  Squash. — Take  a  good  sized 
yellcw  squash;  pare  and  cut  in  halves  acres. 
Place  in  a  baking  pan  and  stuff  with  a 
filling  made  of  bread  crumbs,  herbs  and  a 
little  chopped  tomato,  season  as  desired. 
When,  stuffed  tie  together  with  a  fine  cord 
and  bake  in  the  oven  till  the  squash  is 
tender.  When  cooked  remove  the  cord  anc 
serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 
TABLE  TALK. 

You'repretty  smooth,"  said  the  ^nnegar 
to  the  olive  oil,  "but  you  are  not  half  to 
sharp  as  I  am," 

"H'h!  I  wouldn't  talk,"  rejoined  the 
oil.  "  You  are  not  so  slick.  Why,  you 
can't  even  get  away  from  your  mother." — 
Sdfded. 

Figs,  dates  and  prunes  are  among  tlit 
dried  fruits  which  are  often  served  unwath- 
ed.  Only  the  most  expensive  varieties  are 
safe  to  eat  without  a  thorough  cleansing. 

139 


d  by  Google 


^FdOD  HbME^CAftDENl 


THE  WATER-MELON  AS  FOOD  AND 

MEDICINE. 

By  Mrs.  Anne  B.  Clubb. 

Syrup  and  vinegar  are  now  made  from 
water-melons  in  the  South. — Grand  Haven 
(Mich,)  Courier -Journal. 

I  made  excellent  syrup  from  water-mel- 
ons and  received  a  premium  for  one  at  the 
Ottawa  Co.  or  Grand  Haven  Fair.  I 
also  made  vinegar  of  the  rind.  Following 
are  the  recipes : 

Water-melon  Syrup. — Cut  open  ripe  mel- 
ons ;  pick  out  the  seeds  and  separate  the 
ripe  portion  from  the  rind.  Squeeze  it  in  a 
clean  coarse  sack  and  boil  down  as  for 
maple  syrup,  clarifying  with  white  of  egg 
and  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  arises. 

Water-melon  Vinegar. — Cut  the  rind  of 
the  water-melon  into  small  pieces  and  stew 
in  plenty  of  water,  adding  the  strained  pulp 
and  scum  from  the  syrup.  When  well 
cooked,  strain  the  whole,  put  into  a  barrel, 
add  vinegar  plant  or  mother  of  vinegar,  and 
let  it  stand  in  the  sun  until  it  all  becomes 
vinegar. 

Water-melon  Sauce. — Pare  and  cut  the 
water-melon  rind  into  inch  cubes  and  stew 
in  enough  water  to  keep  it  from  burning,  6 
hours  or  until  soft ;  add  the  juice  and  graled 
rind  of  lemon  and  half  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  pint  or,  if  for  preserves,  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  each  pint.  It  becomes  translucent 
in  cooking  and  is  a  very  rich  preserve.  It 
can  be  candied  like  citron  if  cooked  long 
enough. 

Water-melon  Seed  Tea. — ^The  seeds  of 
water-melon  should  always  be  washed 
clean  and  dried.  Then,  when  required, 
pour  boiling  water  upon  a  handful  of  the 
seed  and  let  it  steep. 

P^xcellent  in  fevers  and  kidney  diseases. 

The  colored  people  in  the  South  carry  the 
sieds  in  their  pockets  and  eat  them  raw  to 
prevent  an  attack  of  yellow  fever, 
i+o 


The  juice  of  water-melon  is  said  to  be  an 
excellent  lotion  to  take  off  tan  and  freckles. 

If  the  rinds  and  seeds  of  water-melons 
were  properly  used  instead  of  being  thrown 
into  the  swill  barrel,  there  would  be  less 
fever  and  kidney  cases. 


WHEAT  MIDDLINGS  AS  FOOD. 
Prof.  Chas.  D.  Woods,  of  the  Maine 
Agricultural  College,  justly  doubts  the 
advantage  of  the  practice  of  adding  mid- 
dlings or  bran  to  white  flour  in  making 
bread,  on  account  of  its  irritating  the 
mucous  membrane  and  hastening  the  pas- 
sage of  the  food  before  it  is  properly  digested. 
Such  a  method  of  making  Graham  bread  is 
often  resorted  to  and  some  bakers  honestly 
call  their  product  "Bran  Bread."  We  have 
always  contended  that  wheat  should  be  so 
thoroughly  ground  that  the  outer  layers 
lose  their  irritating  and,  in  a  great  measure, 
their  laxative  quality.  By  thorough  grind- 
ing we  no  not  mean  very  fine  grinding. 
Even  the  starchy  or  white  portion  of  the 
wheat  does  not  require  that,  but  we  contend 
that  the  outer  layers  of  the  wheat  should  be 
ground  with  the  interior  portion  until  aU 
passes  through  a  No.  iS  sieve  and  a//  should 
be  returned  to  the  mill  that  does  not  pass 
through  that  sieve.  Then  you  have  a  good 
flour  of  moderate  fineness,  containing  all  the 
elements  of  the  wheat  in  a  form  avail- 
able for  deliberate  digestion.  The  me- 
chanical effect  of  the  outer  cuticle  of  the 
wheat  is  not  to  be  lost  sight  of.  We  are 
entirely  opposed  to  the  theory  that  nothing 
should  be  taken  but  nutriment.  The 
Vegetarian  Society  Mill  grinds  the  entire 
wheat  better  than  mills  used  for  making 
white  flour. 


The  Athlciie  in  Greece,  in  accordance 
witli  the  common  habits  of  the  people,  were 
trained  entirely  on  vegetable  food. 

October 


d  by  Google 


f 


LARGE  CHERRIES. 
My  father  has  a  fruit  farm  of  nine  acres 
here.  We  have  about  four  acres  of  cherries ; 
eight  varieties  in  bearing,  reaching  in  time 
of  ripening  from  May  to  September.  We 
have  most  all  off  now.  Some  are  very  nice, 
being  as  much  as  three  inches  in  circum- 
ference. I  wish  you  could  see  some  of 
them— S,  H.  Carnahan.CollegePlace.Wash. 


BANANA  GROWING  IN  MEXICO. 

An  acre  of  ground  will  plant  1200  to  1500 
banana  plants,  costing  from  $60  to  $75. 
With  land  at  $8  per  acre  and  clearing  and 
preparing  at  $7  more  makes  J75  to  $90 
Mexican  money.  In  one  year  from  the 
planting  an  acre  will  yield  1000  to  1200 
btmches  ot  bananas  worth  $t  Mexican 
money,  or  often  more.  Taking  the  lowest 
figures  we  have  $1000,  less  the  highest 
figure — $75— leaving  $925  per  acre  clear 
profit.  On  an  outlay  of  $100  you  have 
made  a  profit  of  $900,  and,  having  your 
cleared  land  on  hand,  with  sprouts  from  the 
roots  of  the  old  plants  sufficient  to  plant 
three  or  four  more  acres,  you  may  raise 
another  1000  bunches  on  the  same  acre  at 
the  end  of  another  year. 


DRY  AIR  TO  PRESERVE  FRUIT. 

A  scheme  by  a  Colorado  man,  says  the 
California  Frtdt  Groioer,  is  founded  upon 
the  principle  that  dry,  fresh  air  is  far  more 
beneficial  to  fruit  in  transit  than  is  the 
raoistandconliied  air  of  a  refrigerator  car. 
Tn  the  new  car,  ice  is  done  away.  An 
immense  metal  funnel  is  attached  to  the 
engineof  a  train,  just  above  the  pilot,  and 
from  this  funnel  a  pipe  about  one  foot  in 
diameter  extends  back  to  the  fruit  car, 
1898 


resulting  in  an  automatic  draught  of  air 
flowing  through  the  car.  This,  it  is 
claimed,  makes  a  perfect  ventilation,  and 
according  to  the  dry-air  theory  will  preser\-e 
several  days  longer  than  will  the  ice  process. 
This  is  a  good  hint  for  those  who  desire 
to  preserve  fresh  fruit  domestically.  The 
open  verandah  may  be  better  than  the 
lefngerator  for  storing  fruit  for  a  few  days. 

DONA  ANA,  N.  M. 

The  Governor  of  New  Mexico  reports  to 
the  Department  of  the  Interior,  Washing- 
ton, D.  C,  that  "The  climate  of  this  sec- 
tion of  New  Mexico  is  delightful,  the  alti- 
tude being  about  4000  feet,  which  is  calcu- 
lated to  benefit  the  sick  or  well .  Mr.  J.  K. 
Livingston  has  recently  erected  a  model 
home  hotel  one  mile  from  Las  Cruces,  bow- 
ered  in  trees,  on  a  small,  but  beautiful 
ranch,  affording  a  magnificent  view  of  the 
organ  mountains.  Here  there  is  no  fear  of 
dust,  storm  or  high  wind.  The  wide- 
stretching  fields  shield  it  from  the  sand- 
storms. The  winters  here  are  delightful, 
the  summers  genial ;  and  for  sick  people,  or 
even  those  desiringa  rest,  it  is  a  most  invit- 
ing location." 

Bee  culture  obtains  on  every  ranch  in 
Dona  Ana  County,  the  extensive  Alfalfa 
fields  yield  a  peculiar  variety  of  honey 
exceptional  as  a  remedy  in  consumption  and 
alt  throat  and  lung  ailments. 

The  fndtariaii  as  well  as  the  vegeiablarian 
■  will  there  be  suited.  Railroad  communi- 
cation for  at  least  zoo  miles,  is  shaped  like  a 
triangle,  formed  by  the  Santa  He  route  and 
the  Southern  Pacific.  The  Medlla  Valley  is 
the  banner  section  for  the  farmer  and  fruit 
grower, — R.  Hecker. 

141 


d  by  Google 


iFOODHQMEv^'^GARDENi 


THE  VEGETARIAN  PRINCIPLE. 

The  fact  that  eighteen  centuries  of  Chris- 
tianity as  taught  by  the  churches  and 
schools,  have  foiled  to  abolish  intemperance, 
war  and  various  other  forms  of  diabolical 
homicide,  shows  conclusively  that  educa- 
tion, as  at  present  administered,  requires 
another  step  to  be  taken  in  human  progress 
which  shall  train  the  human  offspring  into  a 
more  perfect  recognition  of  the  humane 
sentiment  by  which  life  shall  become  re- 
spected, the  rights  of  man  and  animals 
established  and  maintained. 

The  fact  that  murders  are  so  common  in 
flash-eating  countries  and  almost  unknown 
in  Japan  and  other  Vegetarian  nations, 
except  where  flesh-eating  and  alcoholics 
have  been  introduced,  shouldof  itself  secure 
the  general  adoption  of  the  Vegetarian 
principle  of  life,  and  when  in  addition  to 
this  fee t  the  adoption  of  this  principle  has 
been  instrumental  in  the  attainment  of  the 
highest  degree  of  physical  strength  and 
development,  as  shown  by  the  most  recent 
athletic  contests,  it  would  seem  impossible 
to  avoid  the  conclusion  that  the  principle 
as  described  in  the  first  number  of  this 
series  is  correct :  That  man  as  a  physical, 
intellectual  and  moral  being  becoines  best 
developed  when  subsisting  on  the  direct 
productions  of  the  Vegetable  Kingdom. 

The  tendency  of  the  times  is  evidently  in 
this  direction.  Even  the  expyerience  of  war  ; 
the  hospitals  where  the  wounded  are  treated 
are  acknowledged  by  army  surgeons  to 
prove  that  those  who  have  subsisted  on 
these  productions  are  best  able  to  endure 
the  torture  of  surgical  oi>eratious  and  are 
the  soonest  to  recover  from  their  wounis 
and  amputations. 

The  want  of  success   in  the   temperance, 

peAce    and     sanitary    reform     movements, 

their   only    partial    restraints    over    human 

pLissions,  show  that  some  additional  reform 

i4i 


is  needed  to  make  them  effective.  A  man 
may  be  a  total  abstainer  from  intoxicating 
liquors  himself,  yet  by  his  example  he  may 
be  laying  the  foundation  of  intemperance  in 
others  by  fostering  those  indulgences  in 
flesh-eating  which  create  a  thirst  which  in 
others,  if  not  in  himself,  can  only  be  satis- 
fied by  intoxicating  liquors.  It  has  been 
proven  that  total  abstinence  from  flesh  and 
the  consumption  of  fruits,  nuts,  etc.,  soon 
destroy  the  desire  for  alcohol,  therefore  a 
true  temperance  reformer  must,  to  be  con- 
sistant,  become  a  Vegetarian,  not  only  for 
his  own  safety,  but  forthe  safety  of  others, 
which  is  a  nobler  reason. 

The  advocate  of  peace  may,  by  indulging 
in  the  carnivorous  appetite,  be  fostering 
both  in  himself  and  by  his  example,  in 
others,  an  indifference  to  the  taking  of  life, 
which  is  an  essential  element  of  war.  A 
nation  of  Vegetarians  would  seek  a  humane 
method  of  settling  international  and  domes- 
tic difficulties,  but  a  nation  with  its  passions 
fired  by  carnivorous  indulgences,  prefers 
fighting  to  any  of  the  peaceful  avocations. 
A  large  party  in  such  nations  will  exist 
that  will  take  every  opportunity  to  arouse 
the  passion  for  war  under  the  most  osten- 
tatious display  of  patriotism,  and  hence  no 
peace  man  can  claim  consistency  who  in- 
dulges carnivorous  habits,  which  are  so 
inflammatory  of  the  war  fever. 

The  movement  for  the  jjrevention  of 
cruelty  to  animals  is  one  of  the  most  prom- 
ising efforts  for  the  promotion  of  humane 
sentiments.  The  investigation  of  the  mode 
of  treating  animals  in  their  transit  from  the 
prairie  to  their  slaughter  in  distant  cities. 
has  revealed  a  degree  of  barbarism  and 
atro'ity  iinparallel-d  in  anv  heathen  coun- 
tries, while  the  methods  of  slaughter  in  the 
presence  of  waiting  victims  doomed  to  the 
same  treatment;  skinning  before  life  is 
hardlv  extinct,  or,  in  the  case  of  swine, 
immersion  in  scalding  water  as  soon  as 
their  throats  are  cut,  all  indicate  that  a 
humane  education  must  include  the  Veg- 
etarian principle. 

October. 


d  by  Google 


THE  STORY  OF  BENJAMIN  FRANKLIN. 

CHAPTER  IV. 

THE  journeymen  printers  in  London  who  followed  Franklin's  example  ia  regard  to 
eating  and  drinking,  improved  rapidly  in  their  morals  and  health  and  became  much 
better  companions  to  hrankliii .  Franklin  relates  that  in  the  garret  of  the  house  he 
lodged  in  in  London,  ihtre  lived  a  maiden  lady  of  seventy,  in  the  most  retired  man- 
ner, of  whom  he  learned  she  was  a  Roman  Catholic  and  was  endeavoring  to  live  the  life  of 
a  nun  as  nearly  as  possible  without  tlie  nunnery. 
She  had  given  all  her  estate  to  charity,  reserving 
only  twelve  pounds  a  year  to  live  on,  and  out  of 
this  sum  she  still  gave  a  part  to  charity,  living 
on  water  and  gruel  only.  "She  looked  pale," 
said  Franklin,  "but  was  never  sick  ;  and  I  gave 
it  as  another  instance  on  how  small  an  income 
life  and  health  may  be  supported." 

Franklin  says  he  dressed  plainly  and   neve  ■ 
went  out  fishing  or  shooting,   nor  indulged  in 
any  amusement  except  reading.      While  he  was, 
in    1729,  printing   and   publishing  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Gazette,    it  is  related  that  some   of  his 
patrons,   taking   exception    to    his    course,   he 
mvited  them  to  sup  with  him  and  talk  the  matter  over.     The  only  provision  he  made  for 
supper  was  a  pitcher  of  water  and  two  coarse  meal  puddings,  commonly  called  "sawdust." 
When  fouud,  as  he  expected,  that  his  friends  could  not  master  such  fare,  he  gave  them  the 
moral  of  the  acted  parable  in  these  words,  "My  friends,  any  man  who  can  subsist,  as  I 
can,  on  sawdust  pudding  and  water,  needs  no  man's  patronage." 

Speaking  of  his  life  soon  after  his  marriage,  and  while 
ruijning  the  printing  office  in  Philadelphia,  he  writes : 
"We  kept  no  idle  servants ;  our  table  was  plain  and  sim- 
ple, our  furniture  of  the  cheapest.  For  instance,  my. 
breakfast  was,  for  a  long  time,  bread  and  milk  (no  tea), 
and  I  ate  it  out  of  a  two-penny  earthen  porringer  with  a 
pewter  spoon . ' ' 

Franklin  thus  writes  in  regard  to  his  frugal,  temperate 
and  industrious  habits:  "I  was  indebted  for  my  printing  1 
house,  i  had  a  young  family  coming  on  to  be  educated,  = 
and  I  had  two  competitors  to  contend  with  for  business,  - 
who  were  established  before  me.  My  circumstances,  how- . 
ever,  grew  clearly  easier.  My  original  habits  of  frugality  \ 
continuing,  and  my  father  having  among  his  instructions 
to  me  when  a  boy,  frequently  repeated  a  proverb  of  Solo-  j 
mon,  'Seest  thou  a  man  diligent  in  his  calling,  he  shall  ' 
stand  before  kings,  he  shall  not  stand  before  mean  men.' 

I  thence  considered  industry  as  a  means  of  obtaining  wealth  and  distinction,  which  en- 
couraged me,  though  I  did  not  think  I  should  ever  actually  stand  before  kings,  which, 
however,  has  since  happened  ;  for  I  have  stood  before  _/ftw,  and  even  had  the  honor  of  sit- 
ting down  with  one,  the  King  of  Denmark,  to  dine." 

1898  115 

Digitized  by  Google 


^FOOBHOMEv^^  GARDEN! 

t.  HAPTl  R\  —Ln    liMMi 

FRAnk.l,ijn  speaks  nigniy  ot  ms  wiie,  oi  ner  assistance  to  tiim  in  tiis  business 
in  stitching  paaiphlt;ts  and  other  light  work  of  a  printing  ofBce,  and  of  her  frugality. 
But  as  their  circumstances  gradually  improved  she  insisted  on  substituting  his  two- 
penny earthen  porriitger  and  pewter  spoon  with  a  china  bowl  and  a  spoon  of  silver, 
and  being  called  one  morning  to  breakfast,  he  was  surprised  by  this  evidence  of  increasing 
"uxury  being  placed  before  him.  These  had  been  pur- 
chased without  his  knowledge  and  for  the  enormous  sum 
)f  twenty-three  shillings.  For  this  Mrs.  Franklin  offered 
lo  othei'  excuse  or  apology  than  that  she  thought  A^r 
lusband  deserved  a  silver  spoon  and  china  bowl  as  well 
IS  any  of  his  neighbors. 

As  an  evidence  of  Franklin's  mental  and  religious  bias 

le  conceived  the  bold  project  of  arriving  at  moral  per- 

ection  and  formed  a  code  of  morality  and  a  scheme  of 

.ielf  improvement     which     was     quite     comprehensive, 

embracing  all  the  known  virtues.     That  he  succeeded  in  arriving  at  perfection,  he  did 

not  pretend,  but   that  he  mastered   many  grievous  defects  ofcharacter  is  quite  evident. 

Economy  and  industry  were  always  prominent  features  of  his  character.     It  is  related  of 

him  that  while  in  business  as  a  printer  in    Philadelphia,  not  far,   locally,   from   the   late 

publication  office  of  the  organ  of  the   Vegetarian  Society  of  America,  Food,  HohE  AND 

Garden,  an  opposition  printer  made  it   his   boast  that  he  would  soon  run  him  out  of 

butitness.     Franklin,  seeing  his  opponent  pass  his  office,  called  him  in  and  showed  him  a 

closet  in  which  was  stored  a  bag  of  meal.     "There,"  he  said,  "Is  my  subsistance  :  a  man 

who  can  live  on  corn  meal  mush  as  1  can,  can  never  be  driven  out  of  business  by  you." 

And  it  proved  trite,  for  his  opponent  soon  gave  up  the  attempt. 

Of  Franklin 's  success  as  a  scientific  as  well  as  moral  philosopher  we  need  say   nothing, 
as  every  *:hoolboy  knows  that  Franklin's  drawing  electricity  from  the  clouds  by  means  of 
his  kite,  established  the  identity  of  the  lightning's  flash  witli  the  electric  spark,  and  thus 
laid  the  foundation  on  which   Edison  and   other  elec- 
tricians have  succeeded  in  applying  the  electric  current 
to  the  purpose  of  lighting  cities  and  transmitting  power 
as  well  as  conveying  intelligence  promptly  to  all  parts  of 
the  world. 

How  far  the  world  is  indebted  to  that  quick  percep- 
tion and  clearness  of  ideas  which'  Franklin  attributed  to 
his  temperate  habits  of  eating  and  drinking  may  never  be 
known,  bijt  that  his  unusual  development  of  mental 
capacity  was  promoted  thereby  cannot  be  questioned. 

The  accompanying  portrait  of  Franklin  shows  to  what  - 
a  degree  of  manly  beauty  he  arrived. 

Franklin  stands  foremost  both  in  America  and  in 
Europe  both  as  a  scientific  discoverer  and  practical  phil- 
osopher, while  his  literary  skill  and  perfection  of  strong 
Anglo-Saxon  language  has  seldom  been  equalled  before 

or  since  his  time.     Our  young  friends  should  study  his  character  well  and  with  their  super- 
ior advantages  may  hope  to  attain  to  the  highest  grade  of  moral  and  spiritual  life. 

SONG  OF   THE   APPLB  TREE. 
Sine  »    sone  of  ""  "Pple  tree  nilh  iU  branches  blaring  down 
With  Its  loud  of  fruit  so   red   nod  bright,  yellow  or  lusaet  brown. 

But  arter  all.  it  la  Ihc  fmil  that  aatiiilia  our   reann. 


.V  Google 


ecticut. 


d'by'Godgle 


MRS.  FAIRCHII.D  ALLEN. 


db,  Google 


Vol.  II,  New  Series,  No.  22.  NOVEMBER,  1898.  Whole  Number  95. 

MRS.  FAIRCHILD  ALLEN. 


WE  have  befoie  had 
refer  to  Mrs.  Allen  as  a  most  con- 
sistant  as  well  as  earnest  friend  to 
the  animal  creation  and  we  have  pleasure 
in  presenting  what  we  trust  will  prove  a 
good  representation  of  a  recent' photograph. 
Mrs.  Allen  is  the  founder  of  the  Illinois 
Anti-Vivisection  Society  and  with  her  peri- 
odical is  now  laboring  in  Chicago  with 
great  zeal  and  energy . 

Her  most  recrnt  public  effort  has  been 
a  strong  protest  against  the  celebration  of 
peace  in  Chicago  by  the  slaughter  and  pub- 
lic roasting  of  an  ox  and  the  distribution 
of  slices  of  the  dead  body  among  the  cele- 
brators  of  peace  on  the  Jubilee  day. 

Her   protest  is   thus  spoken  of  by    the 
Chicago  /Record o{  Sep.  23,  i8g8: 
Prote,st    Against   any   Mors  Blood. 

"Realization  of  1he  proposed  barbacue 
will  have  to  be  made  over  individual  and 
concerted  protest  from  members  of  societies 
for  the  prevention  of  cruelty  to  animals. 
Champions  of  the  brutes  declare  that  if  an 
outdoor  feast  is  to  be  held  for  the  masses 
the  real  emblems  of  peace — fruits  and  veg- 
etables— should  be  served  instead  of  meat. 
The  slaughtering  of  shoats  and  sheep,  they 
claim,  would  be  a  prolongation  of  the  red 
tragedy  of  war  and  decidedly  inappropriate. 

"Mrs.  Fairchild  Allen,  president  of  the 
Chicago  Branch  of  the  International  Kind- 
ness to  Animals'  society,  who  directs  her 
affairs  from  275  42nd  St. ,  is  the  first  to  take 
up  the  movement  for  fruits  and  vegetables 
instead  of  flesh.  She  wonders  why  there 
should  be  any  addition  to  the  sanguinary 
scenes  already    enacted    in    the    Spanish- 

1898 


American  war.  Mrs.  Fairchild  Allen 
would  serv^ carrots,  tomatoes,  cauliflower, 
spinach  and  other  products  of  the  ground, 
and  in  such  a  feast  of  varied  vegetables  she 
thinks  every  taste  would  be  pretty  sure  to 
be  satisfied.  She  will  address  the  mayor, 
in  whose  mind  the  barbacue  idea  originated, 
and  the  managers  of  the  celebration  on  the 
subject, ' ' 

Mrs.  Allen  does  not  give  as  a  reason  for 
preventing  suffering  in  the  slaughtering  of 
animals  the  reason  "that  it  would  poison 
the  meat"  but  her  reason  is  that  we  have 
no  right  to  cause  the  suffering  because  it  is 
not  necessary  to  slaughter  animals  at  all. 
Mrs.  Allen  was  one  of  the  distinguishe<l 
guests  at  a  Vegetarian  Thanksgiving  Ban- 
quet in  Chicago  and  her  words  for  prevent- 
ing cruelty  to  animals  were  not  based  on 
any  selfish  consideration  but  were  on  the 
broad  basis  of  humanity :  the  practice  of 
slaughter  being  antagonistic  to  the  develop- 
ment of  the  humane  spirit  in  man. 

Prof.  Anderson  of  Chicago  has  recently 
issued :  "Nature  Series  No.  1 :  Tic 
Natural  Way  in  IH^t  or  the  Proper  Food  of 
Man."  We  present  this  picture  of  Mrs. 
Allen  as  a  sample  of  the  many  portraits 
appearing  in  that  volume.  The  book  is  a 
valuable  addition  to  Vegetarian  literature 
by  one  who  has  been  instrumental  in  im- 
proving the  dietetic  habits  of  thousands  of 
patients  whom  he  has  treated  by  correspon- 
dence. Many  pages  are  devoted  to  anti- 
vivisection  of  which  Mrs.  Allen  is  the  chief 
representative  in  Illinois. 

147 


d  by  Google 


— -  -        -; ^mi    Ill-Ill"   ■     ■ -■   T  r     -r       •    'ui  ji  f-lf't 

^FOODHOMEv'^^GARD^ 


ADVERTISING  IN  hOUD.  HOME 
AND  GARDEN. 
We  have  never  known  an  advertisement 
in  P.  H,  &  G,  to  be  unproductive  of  results 
and,  if  continued,  unprofitable.  Mr.  J.  O. 
Clark  advertised  as  follows : 

Wanted  Immediately! 

1    purLi  of  U.  3  ,  apccially  on  Pacific  Slope 


ve  requenl   yon  wifl  aid   Vca[etArtf 

bHrchlldTciifromOic  HouUndbody 


n*  ui/  '^ruSi 


UIATBLV.      Addrc 


At  the  end  of  five  months  he  wrote  us  : 
"Believing  that  you  would  be  glad  to 
know  the  result  of  my  ad.,  I  will  say  that  in 
one  respect  I  was  at  finit  somewhat  dis- 
appointed, yet  I  have  good  reasons  to  be- 
lieve that  the  final  result  will  be  better  than 
I  expected.  I  hoped  to  hear  of  a  place 
where  several  Vegetarian  families  had 
already  a  foot-hold,  near  together  where 
land  could  be  had  at  low  figures.  In  this 
I  was  disappointed.  However,  I  have 
heard  from  several  families  and  single  indi- 
viduals in  different  parts  of  the  country 
who  are  permanently  located  where  land 
can  be  had  very  cheap.  A  man  who  lives 
on  the  eastern  slope  of  the  Ozark  .Mountains 
in  eastern  Missouri,  writes  me  that  he  has 
'i<)o  acres  of  first  class  fruit  land  that  he 
would  be  glad  to  sell  lo  Vegetarians  in  lots 
of  from  five  to  forty  acres  at  five  dollars  an 
acre.  This  man  also  has  over  2,000  acres 
of  other  lands  that  are  not  so  good,  on 
which  he  does  not  state  the  price.  The 
600  acres  are  not  for  sale  to  any  one  at  any 
hrice,  except  to  those  who  do  not  wish  to 
raise  animals  of  any  kind,  not  ci'vn  poultry. 
to  be  butchered  He  has  an  orchard  of 
about  3,000  trees,  mostly  apples  and 
148 


peaches,  that  have  been  bearing  twelve 
years  without  a  failure. 

"Another  man  on  Puget  Sound,  Wash., 
is  anxious  to  have  Vegetarians  settle  near 
bim.  He  does  not  mention  that  he  has  any 
land  for  sale,  but  he  says  that  land  there 
can  be  had  at  moderate  prices.  The  prices 
that  he  mentions,  however,  are  somewhat 
higher  than  the  Missouri  man's  price.  I 
expect  to  locate  at  one  of  the  above-men- 
tioned places  in  preference  to  any  of  the 
other  places  I  have  heard  from,  several  of 
which  offer  great  inducements.  If  money 
matters  do  not  run  too  low  with  me,  I  will 
probably  see  both  places  before  making  a 
final  decision.  I  hope  to  be  located  within 
a  month  or  two,  but  circumstances  may 
compel  me  to  stay  where  I  ara  until  Spring 
Since  advertising,  I  have  heard  of  several 
efforts  that  are  being  made  to  start  Vegeta- 
rian colonies,  and  although  .1  cannot  en- 
dorse the  plans  of  either  of  them,  I  sincerely 
hope  that  they  may  all  be  successful.  My 
idea  of  a  Vegetarian  colony  is  that  each 
member  should  be  a  "law  unto  himself 
in  all  matteis  of  mere  opinion. 

"Many  other  reforms  besides  the  food 
reforms  are  sadly  needed,  but  as  no  reform 
that  does  not  take  into  consideration  the 
food  that  nourishes  our  bodies  can  be  per- 
manently successful,  Vegetarians  should 
come  together  on  a  basis  broad  enough  to 
afford  room  for  all  who  can  comprehend 
that  pure  bodies,  minds  and  morals  cannot 
be  answered  to  those  who  feed  on  the 
products  of  the  butcher. 

"In  my  opinion,  all  Vegetarians  should 
adopt  the  adage ; 

For  rorms  of  fsllh  l«t  wmnREing  bigoU  Bdht. 
H»  CB..'t  ht  wro.,,!  -hoK  life  »  In  (he  riifW. 

"For  the  benefit  of  all     whom   it  may 

concern,  I   will  say  in  closing  that  the  use 

of  peanuts  prepared  on  the  mill   bought  of 

you  last  winter,  and  of  Graham  flour  made 

November, 


d  by  Google 


i  FOOD  HOMEv^"^  GARDEN! 


on  it,  I  have  been  greatly  relieved  from  8 
bowel  trouble  that  I  contracted  in  the  anny 
while  serving  Uncle  Sam  daring  our  un- 
pleasantness between  the  North  and  South. 
I  firmly  believe  that  all  Vegetarians  and 
many  who  are  not  Vegetarians  would  have 
the  mill  if  they  knew  of  the  many  profitable 
uses  to  which  it  can  be  put.  No  amount  of 
money  would  induce  me  to  part  with  roiue 
could  I  not  get  another. — J,  O,  Clare, 
Nat,  Alabama,  August  13,  1898. 

We  hope  thai  those  who  are  wanting 
Vegetarian  neighbors  and  co-operation  will 
avail  themselves  of  the  Personal  Columns 
of  Food,  Home  and  Garden  to  obtain 
what  they  want.  There  are  thousands  of 
isolated  Vegetarians  who  might  be  brought 
together  by  these  means. 


ALEXANDRINE  VEIGELE'S  EXPER- 
IENCE. 

I  had  been  more  or  less  an  invalid  all 
my  life,  when  15  years  ago  I  became  worse 
and  spent  the  most  of  my  time  in  bed.  As 
no  doctor  had  ever  done  me  any  good,  I 
would  Dot  consult  any  more,  and  I  remained 
thus  for  three  years,  then,  upon  the  advice 
of  frienils,  I  consulted  a  good,  kind  and 
conscientious  doctor  of  the  old  school  who 
advised  me  to  cease  eating  butcher's  meat. 
I  therefore  began  to  live  on  fish,  fowl  and 
vegetables.  Seeing  that  I  derived  no  ben- 
efit from  such  a  diet,  another  doctor  was 
called  in,  who,  after  a  consultation  with 
my  own,  decided  that  an  operation  was 
necessary.  I  would  not,  however,  consent 
to  be  operated  upon,  so  continued  in  the 
same  state  of  health  for  two  years  longer, 
when  I  made  the  acquaintance  of  a  young, 
strong  and  heal  thy- looking  Vegetarian, 
who  advised  nie  to  tri-  his  diet.  I  hesitated 
at  first,  but  at  last  was  persuaded  to  do  so. 
After  having  lived  a  few  weeks  upon  Veg- 
etarian diet,  I  was  able,  to  my  great  joy,  to 

'    1898 


leave  my  bed  and  have  never  been  again 
confined  to  it.  My  health  continued  to  im- 
prove daily  upon  that  diet,  and  a  few 
months  after  I  was  able  to  resume  my 
duties  as  a  teacher,  which  I  had  been  com- 
pelled to  give  up  some  months  previous  to 
my  illness,  because  parents  thought  me  too 
old  looking.  No  allusion  was  afterwards 
made  to  my  age,  and  I  had  no  difficulty  in 
procuring  pupils,  although  I  was  then  sev- 
eral years  older.  I  have,  since, '  studied 
carefully  Vegetarianism,  and  come  to  the 
conclusion  that  for  centuries  we  have  been 
living  wrongly,  which  is  the  cause  of  our 
failing  health.  If  we  wish  to  regain  otu" 
health,  we  must  live  as  nature  intended  us 
to  live,  that  is  to  say,  on  fruit,  nuts,  grains, 
vegetables,  etc.,  and  not  upon  the  remains 
ofanimals.  Anyone  who  has  to  study  a 
little,  and  who  wishes  to  know  the  truth, 
can  do  so  easily  and  cheaply,  for  there  are 
books  from  one  dollar  upwards  which  give 
information  on  the  subject,  as  well  as  very 
interesting  facts  for  the  good  of  all. — Alex- 
andrine Veigele. 


THE  GENTLE  JAPANESE. 

"There  is  one  peculiarity  about  the  Jap- 
anese that  is  not  particularly  known — they 
never  utter  an  oath,"  said  Col.  R.  W. 
Gruber.  "The  reason  for  this  is  that 
there  is  no  word  in  the  Japanese  language 
which  is  equivalent  to  an  oath.  Even  the 
vast  number  of  foreigners  who  have  gone  to 
that  country  during  the  last  ten  years  and 
the  thousands  of  new  words  added  to  the 
language  have  not  in  the  least  affected  the 
Japanese  in  swearing.  In  this  respect  the 
Japanese  stand  alone,  for  all  other  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth  can,  when  they  step  on  a 
tack,'  use  a  profane  word." 

There  is  no  donbt  but  the  absence  of  pro- 
fanity in  Japan  is  more  attributable  to  the  un- 
stimulating  foods  than  to  the  lack  of  words, 
149 


d  by  Google 


SPORT  AS  A  CHRISTIAN  PRACTICE 
The  Boston  Inotshgalor  has  a  controverby 
of  several  columns  in  regard  to  sport  and 
its  cruelty,  from  which  we  learn  that  a  Mr. 
Dean  admits  that  it  is  cruet  but  not  use- 
lessly so,  for  "the  squirrel  makes  good 
eating, ' '  to  which  Mr.  J .  M .  Greene  replies : 
that  "it  is  the  old  excuse  for  every  crime 
against  right  since  the  world  began — that 
you  can  make  it  pay  !  But  does  it  pay  the 
hapless  objects  of  these  thrifty  cmelties  ? 
Does  it  pay  the  squirrel?"  To  which  it  is 
replied:  "He  gets  a  painless  death  and 
that's  good  enough  for  him."  To  which 
Mr,  Greeue  responds :  "And  yet,  even 
then,  why  so  sure  about  the  'painless 
death?'  Are  squirrels  never  mangled,  and 
do  they  never  crawl  away  and  die  slowly  in 
some  retreat  ?  or  must  every  one  who  hunts 
be,  according  to  Mr.  Dean,  a  'dead  shot  ?' 
And  how  about  some  very  possible  little 
squirrel,  hidden  somewhere  in  some  cute 
little  nest,  while  the  mother  goes  out  to 
forage  for  the  family?  Does  Mr.  Dean's 
ethical  system  take  in  the  little  squirrels, 
too?" 

Mr.  J.  A.  Wilson  also  takes  a  hand  in 
the  controversy,  charging  that  Mr,  Dean 
makes  no  defence  of  his  cruel  actions,  but 
has  the  poor  taste  to  glory  in  his  cruelty, 
and  that  "his  description  of  the  manner  of 
hunting  the  Squirrel  shows  his  utter  lack  of 
those  fine  sensibilities  which  are  indispeni- 
ble  toa  true  liberal.  The  fact  that  he  con- 
siders the  terrifying  and  shooting  of  an 
innocent  squirrel  a  favorite  pastime  is  a 
strong  indication  that  he  has  not  evoluted 
as  far  out  of  orthodoxy  as  he  would  have 
us  believe.  Those  whose  chief  delight  is 
in  the  suffering  of  others  have  all  the  char- 
acteristic marks  of  the  Christian  God." 

Our  Christian  friends,  who  practice  these 
cruelties  will  see  how  the  liberals  charitably 
attribute  them  to  "their  God,"  instead  of  to 

150 


themselves  The  cruel  conduct  of  professing 
Christians  is  thus  attributed  to  their  religion 
rather  than  to  the  want  of  it,  which  is  the 
true  cause.  Mr.  Wilson  continues:  "No 
one  has  a  moral  right  to  be  happy  at  the 
expense  of  causing  needless  suffering  to  any 
sentient  being.  I  dispute  Mr.  Dean's  asser- 
tion that  the  hunting  and  shooting  of 
squirrels  is  not  uselessly  cruel.  The  animal 
is  not  needed  for  food.  There  are  hundreds 
of  varieties  of  cereals,  fruits  and  vegetables 
which  are  far  superior.  No  one  would 
suffer  for  the  want  of  its  hide  and  fur  except 
itself.  I  have  never  tasted  squirrel  meat, 
and  trust  Mr.  Greene  has  not  ;  but  if  I  had. 
and  it  tasted  good,  the  shooting  of  the 
animal  would  still  be  uselessly  cruel, 
because  there  is  such  an  abundance  of  good- 
tasting  things  in  the  vegetable  world  that 
offer  no  resistance. 

"Perhaps  my  baby  would  taste  good  if 
killed  and  roasted,  but  that  would  not 
prevent  my  killing  and  eating  it  from  being 
uselessly  cruel." 

It  seems  that  both  liberals  and  Christians 
fall  short  of  their  professions  when  the 
prospect  of  gratifying  their  own  sensual 
appetites  and  their  infernal  lust  for  blood 
tempt  them. 

The  fact  is  the  practice  of  eating  flesh 
blinds  both  Christians  and  liberals  to  the 
enormity  of  the  cruelty  it  involves.  If 
they  would  abstain  from  this  practice  for  a 
time  they  would  stand  a  chance  to  obtain 
an  intelligent  and  humane  view  of  the 
subject,  and  not  make  themselves  appear 
so  inconsistant  with  their  profession  of 
humanity  and  religion. 


A  physician  says  he  has  known  many 
bad  cases  of  alcoholic  appetite  gradually 
cured  by  eating  apples  at  every  meal. — Tht 
Temperance  Cause. 

November, 


d  by  Google 


iCg^yPOOD  HbMEv»^  GARDEN 


'^3; 
^^?' 


THE  MYSTIC  SUMMER  SCHOOL. 
The  beautifnl  grove  on  the  Mystic  Lake, 
near  the  mouth  of  the  Mystic  River,  Con- 
necticut, where  thousands  gather  every 
year  to  hold  a  peace  Convention,  is  to  be 
utilized  as  a  summer  resort  and  for  holding 
other  Conventions  in  the  interest  of  Tem- 
perance, Vegetarianism  and  kindred  re- 
forms. Rev.  Amanda  Deyo,  who  is  at 
Mystic,  promoting  this  project,  writes : 

Mystic,  Conn..  Sept.  30,  1898. 

Dear  Friend  :  Mystic  is  so  admirably  sit- 
uated half  way  between  New  York  and 
Boston,  and  those  cities  are  so  gorged  with 
people  that  tourists  are  ever  glad  of  such 
lovely  spots  in  which  to  summer,  and  then 
with  the  attraction  of  a  summer  school, 
certainly  the  tide  will  set  in  our  way  for  a 
great  many  to  come  with  us.  This  is  a 
temperance  town.  No  license  has  been 
granted  here  for  several  years.  There  are 
six  churches  here  and  very  good  and  sym- 
pathetic feelings  exist  among  them.  There 
is  enough  in  prospect  now  of  meetings  in 
our  grove  to  occupy  a  good  part  of  the 
summer.  Professors  and  teachers  have 
been  engaged  to  make  a  very  fine  opening. 
It  will  commence  as  early  as  the  middle  of 
June  and  keep  open  until  in  September 

I  have  had  many  meetings  with  the 
Board  of  Trade  here  and  now  they  have 
sanctioned  our  project  and  their  best  and 
leading  citizens  have  headed  our  subscrip- 
tion paper.  Five  hundred  dollars  would 
set  us  right  on  our  feet  for  our  work. 

I  have  the  faith  to  believe  a  great  work 
will  be  opened  here  I  have  the  entire 
sympathy  of  the  citizens  here.  I  have  been 
welcomed  by  the  clergy  and  the  business 
men.  They  have  given  me  a  good  working 
committee  from  the  Board  of  Trade.  Our 
plan  is  not  to  spare  printer's  ink  between 
now  and  next  summer  in  all  the  leading 
magazines  and  monthlies,  putting  them 
in  illustrated  letters,  sltowing  the  beauty 
and  seclusion  of  this  Peace  Grove,  the  near- 
uess  to  the  little  town,  the  ease  by  which  it 


can  be  reached  by  steamboat  and  rail.  We 
shall  have  tents  at  first  to  accommodate  the 
parties  who  come  and  utilize  all  the  homes 
and  hotels  for  housing  the  guests.  The 
Board  of  Trade  is  having  our  land  surveyed 
and  marked  out  in  building  lots.  The 
owners  of  the  livery  and  carriages  here  told 
me  he  knew  three  cottages  would  be  built 
as  soon  as  we  had  the  building  sites  niarketl. 

Ithasnot  been  any /j^fA/Zasi  to  move  a 
whole  town  of  4000  inhabitants  and  get  a 
concert  of  action.  This,  I  feel,  has  been 
accomplished . 

1  most  cordially  invite  you  and  your 
church  and  Society  to  come  with  us  and  give 
us  your  best  in  our  summer  school  work.  I 
hope  you  may  get  the  strength  to  come  and 
possess  a  restaurant  tent  and  make  the 
Hygienic  and  Vegetarian  diet  a  conspicuous 
element  for  hastening  the  time  of  Universal 
Peace.  Your  Vegetarian  Association  all 
over  the  United  States  could  make  our 
place  their  headquarters,  possess  a  perma- 
nent home  among  us  at  our  Peace  Grove  and 
teach  their  beautiful  truths.  Please  think 
of  it,  you  and  your  people,  and  give  us  of 
your  best.  To  begin,  hold  a  few  days  with 
us  at  least. 

The  outline  of  our  school  is,  to  have  no 
sectarian  or  political  bias,  welcoming  ad- 
dresses from  all  who  are  striving  to  widen 
and  deepen  the  the  spiritual  life  and 
thought.  Sarah  J.  Farmer,  in  her  success- 
fu  work  at  Greenacre,  Maine,  will  render 
us  all  the  aid  she  can.  She  has  had  the 
Vegetarian  thought  there  and  has  become  a 
tolal  abstainer  from  all  flesh.  So  has  the 
clerk  in  her  hotel,  Mr.  E.  B.  Beckwith. 
who  has  sensed  her  for  several  weeks  both 
last  year  and  this.  By  invitation  from  me. 
he  came  here  to  Mystic  and  spoke  before  the 
Board  of  Trade,  telling  them  of  the  great 
good  Greenacre  had  done  by  bringing  not 
only  one  single  church  and  its  work  for 
good,  but  the  best  in  all  churches  and  along 
all  lines. 

I  hope  to  get  back  to  Philadelphia  as 
soon  as  I  can,  and  I  shall  then  avail  myself 
to  be  a  learner  along  these  lines  you  have 
given  so  much  attention  to.  What  Httk- 
opportunity  I  have  had  has  done  nie  good  to 
be  at  your  meetings. 

.151 


d  by  Google 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


v« 

OBT*.I*» 

Soc 

■TT    O 

t  AKBHICA.    PllWUhWB. 

All    tm 
St.. 

"^oITp 

Tno 

o   br 
t  toCl 

estnat  St.)   Phil 

Poulkrod 
dtlphia. 

REV, 

HKNRY  S. 

CLUBB,  Edilor. 

One  S 

bKrlption 

50<r 

U.,  foil 

aubKDptiont   » 

.«.*ytu. 

Alive 
t33. 

;T 

line,    ottf    leserclon. 
For   ti  tines   i  lasen 
o.    Per  page,  laslOe,  S 

3,  outside, 

address  Other  speakers  aUo  did  well  and 
there  was  an  exhibition  of  Vegetarian 
foods  and  inventions  which  attracted  much 
attention. 


Walter  Savage  Landor  says  it  is  a  hard 
thing  to  take  away  what  we  cannot  give, 
and  life  is  a  pleasant  thing,  at  least  to  birds. 

Siam,  under  the  present  king,  is  making 
progress  in  education.  The  American 
system  of  education  will  supersede  dog- 
matic theology  in  making  real  progress. 

Clara  Barton  is  reported  by  a  newspaper 
correspondent  to  have  found  sick  and 
wounded  men  being  fed  on  hard  tack  and 
bacon,  when  she  immediately  changed 
their  diet  to  gruel,  saving  many  lives 
thereby. 


The  Journal  of  M.  B.  S'y  sums  up  Budd- 
hism as  establishing  the  Brotherhood  of 
Man,  the  raising  of  woman  to  equality  with 
man,  and  inciting  to  compassion  toward  all 
living  creatures,  stopping  the  destruction 
of  animals  for  food. 


Madame  Veigele,  whose  experience  we 
give  on  page  149,  is  now  engaged  in  prac- 
tically promoting  the  Vegetarian  cause  by 
running  a  Vegetarian  Supply  Store  at  87 
Praed  Street,  Paddington  London.W.,  Eng- 
land, and  in  lecturing,  giving  cooking  dem- 
onstrations, etc. 


The  reports  that  reach  us  of  the  Anni- 
versary Meeting  of  the  Vegetarian  Federal 
Union  in  London  on  September  12  and  fol- 
lowing days  are  encouraging.  President 
Hills  broke  all  former  records  of  his 
eloquence  and  zeal  and  made  a  masterly 
152 


An  artillery  officer  states  that  during  the 
summer  of  1864,  General  Grant  telegraphed 
to  the  War  Department :  "I  will  not  move 
my  array  without  onions."  The  next  day, 
three  train  loads  of  onions  were  moved  to 
the  front.  He  regarded  onions  as  an  ante- 
dote  for  dysentery  and  other  camp  diseases. 

Bayaid  Taylor  reported  that  Siam  prac- 
tices Buddhism  more  simply  and  purely 
than  any  other  nation.  That  there,  Budd- 
hists were  more  likely  to  convert  Christians 
to  Buddhism  than  were  the  missionaries  to 
convert  Buddhists  to  Christianity.  Flesh- 
eating  missionaries  have  no  influence  in 
Siam. 


Dr.  A.  H.  Reeder  in  the  Chimgo  Weekly 
Inter-Ocean  shows  that  feeding  oxen  and 
hogs  on  com  to  produce  beef  and  pork  is 
an  immense  waste  of  good  food,  as  it  takes 
from  three  to  five  pounds  of  com  toproduce 
one  pound  of  beef  or  pork,  which  contains 
two-thirds  less  nourishment  than  one  pound 
of  cereal. 

The  ladies  of  the  Presbyterian  Church, 
Plainwell,  Mich,,  gave  a  supper  on  Sept. 
19,  1898,  providing  canned  beef.  The 
result  was,  one-tenth  of  the  population  of 
the  village  was  made  sick,  fifty-five  persons 
were  poisoned,  twenty  ill  and  four  expected 
to  die.  Vet  people  will  continue  to  eat  the 
vile  stuff,  even  at  church  festivals.  Bnt  if 
they  would  trace  the  nicely -label  led  cans  of 
beef  to  their  source  in  the  blood-stained 
slaughter-houses  of  the  city,  where  the  ver>' 
air  is  laden  with  the  stench  of  blood  and 
fifth  in  various  stages  of  decomposition, 
and  would  listen  to  the  shrieks  and  sobs 
and  moans  of  the  dying,  the  sight  of  the 
November, 


DigiTizsdbyGoOglC 


[FOOffHOME^  GARDEN 


qoivering  limbs  and  piteous  eyes  of  helpless 
struggling;  creatures,  sure  their  "Christian 
hearts"  would  yield  and  they  would  cease 
to  feed  on  such  abominations. 


The  Vegetarische  Warle  recommends 
Italy  for  Vegetarians  on  account  ot  climate, 
abundance  of  Ihiit,  low  rents,  etc.  Our 
Italy  is  Florida,  California,  New  Mexico 
or  Washington.  The  Sandwich  Islands 
are  our  islands  equal  to  any  in  the  Medit- 
erranean for  climate  and  productiveness,  to 
say  nothing  of  Cuba  and  Porto  Rica.  We 
need  not  go  to  Europe  to  spend  the  summer 
or  winter. 


We  desire  an  expression  from  Vegeta- 
rians, especially  those  residing  in  New 
York  and  New  England,  as  to  their  wil- 
lingness to  cooperate  in  making  the  Peace 
Camping  Grounds  at  Mystic  a  rendezvous  of 
Vegetarians  during  the  hot  season  and 
holding  meetings  there  for  the  practical 
demonstration  of  Vegetarian  principles  and 
practices.  Let  us  hear  frxim  you,  friends  ! 
Shall  we  have  a  convention  there  next 
Summer?  Let  us  have  some  volunteer 
offers  of  aid  in  this  project.  It  is  a  most 
delightful  place  for  such  a  purpose  and  is 
liberally  offer^  by  the  U,  P.  Union.  With 
co-operation,  we  will  undertake  it.  We 
must  have  that. 


DR.  HAIG  ON  DIET. 
Alexander  Haig,  M.  A.  and  M.  D. 
Oxen.,  F.  R.  C.  P.,  Physician  to  the  Met- 
ropolitan Hospital  and  the  Royal  Hospital 
for  Women  and  Children,  an  accredited 
authority,  has  issued,  through  the  Church- 
ils,  London,  a  work  entitled  Diet  and  Food 
in  Relation  to  Power  of  Endurance  in  which 
he  attributes  much  of  the  sickness  of  mod- 
em life  to  the  large  amount  of  uric  acid  and 
advises  a  diet  free  from  that  poison.  In 
his  ample  bill  of  fare,  flesh-meat  is  on  this 


principle,  entirely  excluded.  He  prescribes 
milk  and  its  products,  the  pulses,  bread- 
stuffs,  cereal  foods  and  glutens,  nuts  and 
nut  foods,  vegetables  and  fruits,  fresh  and 
dried.  As  this  is  a  thoroughly  scientific 
work,  not  gotten  up  in  the  interest  of  Veg- 
etarianism, it  must  command  the  attention 
of  the  medical  profession. 


THE  LANCET  ON  FLESH-EATING. 
So  unsensational  an  organ  as  the  London 
Lancet  is  giving  no  slight  satisfaction,  of 
late,  to  the  Vegetarians.  It  argues  that 
nervous  diseases  and  weaknesses  increase  as 
people  come  to  live  on  the  food  of  warm- 
blooded animals — a  point  to  which,  it 
thinks,  attention  has  not  been  adequately 
directed — the  fact  being  that  meat  is  highly 
stimulating,  and  supplies  proportionally 
more  exciting  than  actually  nourishing  pab- 
ulum to  the  nervous  system.  Furthermore, 
according  to  this  authority,  the  meat  eater 
lives  at  high  pressure,  and  is,  or  ought  to 
be,  a  peculiarly  active  organism,  like  a  pred- 
atory animal,  always  on  the  alert,  walking 
rapidly,  and  consuming  large  quantities  of 
■oxygen ;  on  the  contrary,  however,  it  is 
found  that,  in  practice,  the  meat  eater  does 
not  live  up  to  the  level  of  his  food,  and,  as 
aconsequence,  he  cannot  or  does  not  take 
in  enough  oxygen  to  meet  the  exigencies  ol 
his  mode  of  life. —  Vineland  Paper. 

The  Lancet  is  usually  far  away  ahead  of 
the  medical  professional  practice.  Years 
ago  it  exposed  the  beef  tea  &llacy  and 
warned  the  profession  against  it.  Now  it 
boldly  exposes  the  flesh-eating  delusion  in 
regard  to  all  warm-blooded  animals.  6y- 
and-by  it  will  expose  the  danger  of  eating 
shell-fisb  and  such-like  filthy  habits. 


Every  friend  of  the  cause  is  invited  to  sub- 
scribe to  the  quarterly.  Our  Postscript :  sets, 
for  I  copy,  25  cts.  for  10  ;  f>i  for  100  ayear. 


d  by  Google 


I  FOOD  H0f1E#  GARDEN 


THE  WHOLE  WHEAT  CRAZK. 
In  part  of  our  issue  on  the  article  on  ' '  New 
Nutritives,"  page  158,  the  Evening  Post  is 
quoted  as  speaking  of  the  "craze  for  wheat 
flour."  It  should  have  been  "whole-wheat 
flour"  and  was  so  printed  in  the  ^f«/i«^ 
Post.  We  are  glad  to  know  that  the 
"whole-wheat  craze"  is  passiug,  as  we 
always  believed  it  was  a  temporary  senti- 
ineut  that  would  abate  when  understood.  It 
was  a  misnODia,  and  conveyed  awrong  im- 
pression. The  supposition  that  the  outer 
cuticle  of  wheat  is  injurious  to  anyone, 
with  all  deference  to  those  who  believe  it  is, 
we  regard  as  an  error.  There  is  nothing 
bad  in  a  kernel  of  wheat  either  inside  or 
outside,  and  when  it  is  properly  reduced  to 
flour,  bran  and  all,  as  is  done  by  the  Veg- 
etarian Society  Mill,  it  is  more  valuable  as 
food  than  when  any  portion  of  it  has  been 
abstracted.  "Whole-wheat  Graham"  is  the 
true  flour.  True  in  name  and  true  in 
science  and  experience. 

CAPACITY  OF  THE  VEGETARIAN 
SOCIETY  MILL. 
The  mills  which  we  advertise  have  a 
capacity  proportioned  to  the  amount  of 
power  applied.  The  handmills  with  one 
person  power  will  grind  about  three  quarts 
of  wheat  an  hour  without  great  exertion 
and  when  a  half-horse  power  motor  is  ap- 
plied to  it,  it  will  easily  double  this  output, 
even  grinding  bran  and  all  according  to 
directions.  The  power  mill,  (cut  No.  4  in 
circular)  with  tight  and  loose  pulley.  190 
revolutions,  and  one  horse-power  motor 
will  grind  two  bushels  of  wheat  per  hour, 
and  the  large  mill.  No.  5  in  circular,  will 
grind  three  and  a  half  bushels  of  wheat  an 
hour  with  a  two-horse  power  motor. 
Wheat  is  harder  to  grind  than  nuts,  which 
i;ui  bt  ground  nuicli  more  rapidi}'  and  with 
imich  less  power.  Hand  power  is  ample 
for  keeping   an    ordinary    family  supplied 

■54 


^^ 

with  Graham  flour  and  nut  butter,  but  to 
make  a  business  of  supplying  several  fam- 
ilies or  a  whole  neighborhood,  it  is  best  to 
have  a  motor  and  driving  pulley. 

For  general  manufacturing  purposes,  the 
larger  mills  and  one  or  two-horse  power 
motors  are  best. 


CENSUS  AND  COLONIZATION. 
The  educational  advantages  of  Vegeta- 
rian colonization  cannot  be  over-estimated. 
We  want  at  least  one  whole  school  district 
where  the  School  Board  and  consequently 
the  teachers  are  a nti- carnivorous.  This 
can  be  accomplished  by  colonizing  in  some 
of  our  newly -settling  territories.  We  are 
endeavoring  to  obtain  a  census  of  \'egeta- 
rians  so  as  to  enable  practical  reformers  to 
co-operate  and  accomplish  greater  results 
than  can  possibly  be  accomplished  by 
isolation  and  ignorance  of  each  other's 
existence.  Blanks  will  be  furnished  all 
who  will  co-operate  in  completing  a  census 
of  Vegetarians.  Each  State,  Territory' ,  and 
if  possible,  each  City  and  Village  where 
there  are  Vegetarians,  must  be  known  and 
recorded.  There  is  a  distinction  between 
colonizing  and  forming  social  communi- 
ties. Men  are  not  necessarily  socialists 
who  form  a  colony  for  the  establishment  of 
a  good  neighl>orhood  and  pleasant  co-oper- 
ative arrangements  so  as  to  cheapen  the 
necessities  and  comforts  of  life,  and  to  unite 
on  such  co-operation  principles  is  right  as 
far  as  it  goes,  but  the  objecl  of  a  Vegetarian 
colony  is  not  simply  to  live  and  secure  tlie 
advantages  of  co-operation  for  the  colonists, 
but  to  so  live  as  to  exemplify  the  advant- 
ages, physical,  moral  and  spiritual  of  a 
Vegetarian  life  uncontaniinated  with  the 
influence  of  slaughter,  bloodshed  and  the 
destniotion  of  animal  and  bird  life.  The 
nspimlions  of  Mr  J,  0.  Clark,  as  shown  by 
his  advertisement  and  its  results,  (see  page 
148)  is  not  a  selfish  one.  He  wants  to  live 
where  his  children  will  not  witness  slaugh- 
ter nor  be  innnred  to  its  cruelties.  He  has 
a  right  to  seek  such  a  location,  net  merely 
for  the  heiii-fit  of  his  children,  but  for  the 
efffct  ;in(I  influence  that  children  so  trained 
will  exercise  in  the  world  when  grown. 

November 


d  by  Google 


THANKSGIVING    DINNER    MENU. 

For  u>  (hr  Rirdeo'ii  ferKIr  wil 

Pmh  herbs  ant]  fruiin  out  tabl«a  *pt«*d. 
Our  driuk  l>  frum  (he  apiint. 

Mock  bisque  loup. 
Brown  Bread.  Lima  B«ni.  Cauliflower  au  Cralln. 


Spring  W»l«f.  Caramel  Cereal    Coffee. 

RECIPES. 

Mock  Bisqile  Soup. — i  doz.  ripe  toma- 
toes cfr  I  can  ;  cook  in  i  qt.  of  water. 
When  done,  strain  through  a  colander,  add 
I  pt.  of  cream,  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  egg. 
salt  to  taste  and  a  little  thickening,  if  de- 
sired.    Serve  hoi. 

Cauliflower  au  Gratin. — Soak  a  large 
cauli&ower,  head  down,  in  cold  salted  wa- 
ter about  an  hour.  Cook  in  boiling  salt 
water  till  tender.  Break  into  flowerets. 
Put  a  layer  in  a  deep  pudding  dish,  cover 
with  white  sauce.  Continue  the  layers  un- 
til the  dish  is  filled  or  the  flowerets  used  up, 
the  top  layer  being  of  sauce.  Put  into  the 
oven  until  brown. 

While  Sauce  for  Cauliflower. — 3  table- 
spoons each  butter  and  flour,  ,^  teaspoon 
salt,  ij4  cups  of  milk.     Boil  until  done. 

Chili  Sauce. — 18  large  tomatoes,  3  on- 
ions, I  large  pepper.  Chop  all  together  and 
cook  until  thick.  Add  r  pt.  of  vinegar, 
I  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and 
ginger,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  4  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  of  salt. 

Pineapple  Sherbet. — Grate  two  large 
pineapples.  Take  i}(  lbs.  of  sugar,  the 
jniceof  3  lemons,  i  qt.  of  water.  Mix  all 
together,  freeze  and  add  a  meringue. 


MUSHROOMS     &     THEIR      USE. 

Mushrooms  have  been  and  still  are, 
much  more  largely  consumed  in  Europe 
than  in  this  country.  In  China,  where, 
with  her  teeming  population,  the  cost  of 
living  seems  to  be  reduced  almost  to  itt; 
miniuum,  they  are  exteusively  used. 
China  itself  does  not  supply  its  own  de- 
mand for  them,  and  therefore  they  import 
large  quantities  from  Japan  and  other  is- 
lands of  the  Pacific  Ocean.  In  some  of  the 
cities  of  Europe  the  consumption  of  them 
is  so  great  that  a  superintendent  of  the 
market  is  employed  to  inspect  those  offered 
for  sale,  and  to  destroy  those  that  are  un- 
wholesome or  unfit  for  food.  In  this  way 
it  has  been  ascertained  that  more  than  thirty 
tons  are  annually  consumed  in  Rome  alone. 
The  wealthy  and  nobility  are  apparently 
as  fond  of  them  as  the  poorer  classes  as 
they  are  ser^'ed  at  the  tables  of  the  hotels 
and  on  great  occasions. 

They  constitute  a  very  nutritious  and 
sustaining  diet.  Chemical  analysis,  as  well 
as  experience  indicates  this.  The  former 
has  shown  that  they  contain  in  their  dry 
matter  from  ao  to  50  per  cent  of  protein  or 
nitrogoious  material,  and  they  may  there- 
fore be  called  vegetable  meat,  and  be  used 
as  a  substitute  for  animal  food. 

A  hearty  meal  of  mushrooms  alone 
might  be  expected  to  produce  consequences 
similar  to  those  following  a  large  repast  on 
nothing  but  beefsteak. 

Only  sound  and  &esh  specimens,  young 
or  just  mature  should  be  taken. — Selected 
by  Miss  Mary  Middleton  from  Mushrooms 
and  their  Use  by  Chas.  H.  Peck,  State 
Botanist,  N.  Y. 

Make  home  pleasant  by  planting  trees. 


.V  Google 


i060  HbWE^GSRDENl 


A  FAMILY  OF  TWELVE. 
It  is  interesting  sometimes  to  read  old 
letters.  Here  are  some  extracts  from  one 
dated  Colchester,  England,  March  lo,  1886: 
"I  thank  God  for  my  early  intercourse 
with  your  own  dear  self  and  it  cheers  my 
heart  that  your  life  is  still  spared  to  be  a 
blessing  to  others  in  this  lower  state.  *  * 
You  will  be  pleased  no  doubt,  to  know 
that  I  have  not  deviated  from  my  practice 
of  Vegetarianism  since  I  first  totally  ab- 
stained from  the  use  of  Sesh  meat  on  the 
22nd  of  November,  1847,  which  will  be  a 
period  of  39  years  next  November.  My 
health  has  been  uncommonly  good.  Mrs. 
Beach  is  still  healthy.  She  was  66  on  the 
i6th  of  this  month.  We  have  brought  up 
ten  children  to  man  and  womanhood." — 
John  Beach. 

NUTS  FOR  EATINO. 
Nuts  are  much  employed  in  high-class 
cookery,  but  their  value  seems  not  to  be 
recognized  by  the  majority  of  country 
housewives,  too  many  of  whom  let  the 
squirrels  get  them  all.  Very  delicious 
dishes  are  made  of  chestnuts.  No  nut 
makes  a  cake  more  delicious.  Nats 
chopped  and  sprinkled  over  puddings,  hot 
or  cold,  give  a  new  flavor  and  generally 
improve  them,  while  mixed  through  custard 
they  make  a  surprising  change  in  this  sim- 
ple dish.  Stewed  apples  sprinkled  with 
chopped  nuts  and  the  core  space  filled 
with  jam  make  a  good  dessert,  which  need 
beof  no  cost  except  for  the  labor  used,  and 
this  is  of  only  nominal  value. — Philadel- 
phia Inquirer. — Nuts  when  ground  give 
forth  their  nutriment  much  more  readily 
than  when  "chopped."  The  use  of  the 
Vegetarian  S'y  mill  has  done  much  to 
make  nuts  popular  as  food. 

dri?:d  olives. 

I  am  continually  in  rweipt  of  letters 
from  readers  of  Food,  Homk  &  Gardicv 
enquiring  if  I  sell  dried  olives  and  so  would 

156 


like  to  make  a  general  answer  that  I  sell 
nothing  and  own  nothing  but  consider  what 
is  placed  in  my  hands  simply  to  be  held  sub- 
ject to  his  orders.  I  do  not  believe  in 
Christians  earning  their  bread  by  the  sweat 
of  their  brows,  that  was  the  curse  which  is 
removed  when  we  return  to  God.  Fanners 
will  dry  olives  as  soon  as  they  are  sure  of 
a  demand  for  them.  Ifall  who  want  dried 
olives  would  send  their  orders  to  you  and 
you  would  order  them  in  the  bulk  to  the 
amount  wanted  there  would  probably  be  no 
difiSculty  in  my  securing  them  for  you.  A 
farmer  in  National  City  was  induced  to  dry 
some  last  &11  and  I  gave  him  orders  for 
them  all. — Rev.  Isaac  B.  Riftnford. 
A  VEGETARIAN  TURKEY. 
Bv  Wm.  C.  Ferris. 
Six  cents  provided  the  Turkey  for  four 
grown  persons  00  Thanksgiving  Day  last 
year  and  there  was  much  left  over.  The 
turkey  was  a  Hubbard  squash,  browned  in 
an  oven  to  a  fine  dark  tint  and  provided 
with  a  stem  that  certainly  did  look  like  the 
neck  of  a  fowl . 

For  this  dinner  no  flesh,  fish  or  fowl  was 
used  ;  no  salt,  pepper,  mustard  or  vinegar : 
no  animal  products  except  a  bit  of  butter. 
Yet  the  dinner  was  delightful  in  every  way : 
The  cranberry  sauce  was  guiltless  of  skins 
and  seeds  and  the  fniit  was  all  that  an  epi- 
cure could  desire.  We  were  served  with 
Caramel  Cereal  Coffee  and  nuts  for  dessert. 
Professor  Haskins  of  the  Co-operative 
College  of  Citizenship  with  his  wife  and 
daughter  are  staunch  Vegetarians  who  live 
the  life  for  the  good  it  does  them,  and  they 
would  do  the  same  if  they  were  alone  in 
their  convictions.  Mrs.  Haskins  provided 
the  Hubbard  Squash  Turkey  Dinner  spoken 
of.  Their  rooms  are  the  headquarters  of 
the  Vegetarians  of  the  West  side.  Chicaijo, 
and  the  work  of  their  College  is  widening 
day  by  day. 

November, 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


f 


rdb 


A  NORTHWEST  V.  COLONY. 
Rev.  Mrs.  H.  S.  Lake  is  receiving  letters 
from  all  parts  of  the  country  from  those  who 
desire  to  join  the  Northwest  Vegetarian 
Colony.  She  writes :  '  'There  is  much  good 
land  about  here  that  can  be  bought  cheap. 
I  would  like  a  group  of  ten  to  twenty  per- 
sons oil  good  fruit  land  over-looking  the 
Sound.  We  could  sustain  ourselves  well 
with  fruit,  bees  and  sheep.  I  have  studied 
Ruskiii  Colony  and  a  great  many  others. 
My  plans  differ  from  all  I  have  seen  or 
known  of. "  Those  who  desire  information 
should  address  Rev.  H.  S.  Lake,  Lock  Box 
502,  Olympia,  Washington, 


THE  WINEBERRY. 
"There  is  a  new  table  berry  on  the 
market  this  year. ' '  said  a  niarket  dealer  to 
a  WashingloH  Star  reporter,  "which  proves 
that  there  is  something  new  under  the  sun 
after  all,  at  least  in  the  berry  business. 
The  newcomer  is  called  tlie  wineberry. 
In  shape  and  color  it  is  not  unlike  the 
raspberry,  though  it  is  a  trifle  smaller  in 
size.  In  taste  and  flavor  it  is  a  combina- 
tion of  the  raspberry  and  the  old-fashioned 
red-currant.  It  is  superior  to  either  of  the 
berries  from  which  it  sprung,  and  has  an 
advantage  over  either  in  that  it  ships  better 
and  lasts  longer.  It  is  a  graft  from  the 
raspberry,  and  is  the  result  of  considerable 
study  and  experiment.  It  grows  in  every 
respect  like  the  red  raspberry,  and  is  as 
prolific.  Those  that  have  been  sent  to 
niarket  so  far  this  season  do  not  show  up  as 
well  as  they  should,  for  the  reason 
that  there  has  been  but  very  little  rain  in 
this  section  ©("ibe  country  for  the  past  two 
months,  when  the  fruit  was  making.      The 


retail  price  is  about  the  same  as  that  of  the 
raspberry." 

Out  experience  with  this  berry  does  not 
justify  all  that  is  said  in  its  favor,  but  our 
location  probably  was  not  favorable. 

NEW  USE  FOR  PEANUTS. 
Peanut  butter  answers  in  the  place  of 
ordinary  butter  for  table  use,  and  is  said  to 
be  excellent  for  shortening  purposes  and  for 
gravies,  sauces,  etc.  In  point  of  purity  it 
is  superior  to  the  best  dairy  butter.  It  is 
i\'ell  designed  for  the  use  of  Vegetarians 
who  strenuously  object  to  anything  animal. 
There  is  already  a  considerable  demand  for 
this  butter  substitute,  and  it  is  very  proba- 
ble there  will  be  an  enlarged  market  for  the 
nuts.  At  present  the  product  of  the  United 
States  is  about  500,000  bags  annually,  and 
that  of  the  world  is  600,000,000  pounds. — 
IVesl  Coast  Trade. 

The  use  of  peanut  butter  is  extending  and 
bids  fair  to  build  up  an  immense  industry, 
as  its  manufacture  can  be  carried  on  in 
thousands  of  homes  by  men.  women  and 
children  in  addition  to  other  occupations. 
Our  eight-page  pamphlet  ou  the  Vegetarian 
Society  Mill  gives  the  requisite  information. 

THE  TRANSPORTATION  QUESTION. 

The  French  farmer  can  send  liis  produce 
by  mail  in  packages  weighing  seven  pounds 
or  less  to  any  part  of  that  country  for  12 
cents,  while  in  Germany  the  rate  is  only  6 
cents  for  packages  under  1 1  pounds,  and 
one  cent  for  every  additional  pound. — Phil- 
adelphia Record. 

The  English  farmer  has  similar  privilege 
but  the  American  farmer  must  pay  one 
cent  an  ounce  for  sending  his  produce  to 
market,    which  is   more  than   16   times  as 

■57 


d  by  Google 


iFOODHOMEv*'' garden! 


much  as  the  German  farmer  pays.  But  he 
may  send  by  express,  in  which  case  he 
frequently  finds  the  cost  of  transportation 
greater  than  the  receipts  for  the  produce. 
That  is  what  discourages  young  men  from 
staying  on  the  farm  and  fills  our  cities  with 
unemployed  paupers.  All  other  productive 
industries  are  similarly  discouraged  in  this 
country,  and  the  free  circulation  of  money 
all  over  the  country  is  thus  prevented  at 
the  behest  of  a  few  wealthy  express 
companies,  who  now  refuse  to  pay  the  war 
tax  and  impose  that  additional  burden  upon 
their  patrons. 


NEW  NUTRITIVES. 

While  pessimistic  scientists  in  Europe  are 
bewailing  the  prospect  for  a  wheat  famine 
and  consequent  starvation  for  the  increasing 
population  of  the  earth,  new  and  better 
sources  of  nourishment  are  being  discov- 
ered in  this  western  hemisphere,  which  bid 
fair  to  rival  the  cereals  both  in  quality  and 
productiveness. 

The  next  dietetic  fad,  says  the  New  York 
Evening  Post,  is  going  to  be  banana  flour. 
Manufacturers  are  experimenting  in  this 
direction,  and  promise  soon  a  meal  that  will 
keep  as  long  as  wheat  flour  and  make  a 
much  more  nutritious  bread.  As  already 
the  craze  for  wheat-flour  is  passing,  this 
new  albumen  will  undoubtedly  meet  a  quick 
welcome  when  it  comes.  The  use  of  the 
banana  has  developed  its  great  value  as  an 
article  of  food,  and  the  great  army  of 
banana  consumers  are  prepared  to  accept 
eagerly  its  further  development. 

Then  we  have  been  promised  peanut  flour 
from  the  peanut  oil  factories.  The  area  in 
which  peanuts  can  be  produced  is  probably 
greater  than  that  in  which  wheat  can  be 
grown.  The  consumption  of  nuLs  is  increas- 
ing and  the  greater  demand  will  inevitably 

158 


lead  to  greater  production.  Millions  of 
acres  of  cheap  laud  hitherto  used  only  for 
grazing  in  Texas  and  other  Southern  States, 
can  be  utilized  for  the  production  of  nuts. 
The  Pecan  nut  grows  wild  in  Texas  and  its 
general  cultivation  would  bring  to  that  state 
vastly  more  money  than  stock  grazing  and 
would  be  a  less  risky  business.  To  our 
European  friends  we  may  say  be  of  good 
cheer :  "man  does  not  live  on  bread  alone." 
America  is  looking  ahead,  and  when  all 
the  wheat  lands  are  exhausted,  there  will 
be  otlier  sources  of  food  opened  up  and  the 
use  of  wheat  will  be,  in  a  great  measure, 
superseded  by  the  use  of  better  products, 
good  as  wheat  has  been. 

TROPICAL  FRUITS. 
One  of  the  results  of  the  war  will  be  the 
opening  up  of  several  West  India  Islands 
to  the  settlement  of  enterprising  Americans 
who  will  see  in  the  large  and  economical 
production  of  tropical  fruits  for  consump- 
tion in  the  United  States  and  Europe  a  most 
worthy  and  profitable  enterprise.  Bananas 
will,  in  all  probability,  become  a  staple  of 
immense  importance,  as  they  can  be  readily 
converted  into  highly  nutritive  and  easily 
digested  flour,  as  well  as  used  as  raw  or 
cooked  fruit.  Oranges,  lemons,  nuts  and  a 
great  variety  of  choice  fruits  which  have 
hitherto  been  too  costly  for  extetisive  use 
among  the  working  classes  on  account  of 
tariff  duties,  wilt  soon  become  so  common 
as  to  supersede  animal  products  in  the  daily 
menu  of  the  masses  in  this  country,  and  a 
corresponding  improvement  in  health  will 
be  the  result.  Porto  Rico  is  a  paradise  for 
fruit  growers,  and  when  worked  with 
Yankee  skill  and  energy  will  teem  with 
these  tropical  productions.  The  failure  of 
oranges  in  Florida  will  not  be  felt  so  great 
a  loss  when  Porto  Rico  is  developed  as 
United  States  territory. 

November. 


d  by  Google 


APPLE  BLOSSOMS  IN  CLOVER. 

tarian  Boys  and  Girls,"  and  through  the 
kind  courtesy  of  the  editor,  Dr.  J.  H. 
Kellogg,  we  are  now  enabled  to  give  an 
installment  thereof,  pictures  and  all,  and 
we  call  it  "Apple  Blossoms  in  Clover,"  be- 
cause the  Vegetarian  boys  and  girls  are 
enjoying  themselves  like  ponies  in  a  clover 
patch. 

"If   Vegetarianism    provides  the    ideal 
diet  for  man,  why  are  so  many  of  its  dis- 
ciples pale  and  thin  ?"     This  is  a  frequent 
I  query,    and   a  pertinent  one.     The  querist 

refers,  of  course,  to  American  Vegetarians 
Bksme  Agnes  of  his  own   acquaintance  and  observation. 

SINCE  the  appearance  of  that  excellent    An  eminent  physician  who  is  authority  on 
monthly  Good  Health  for  June,  1898,     this  subject,  when  asked  how  to  "eet  the 
,     -^  ,  ,    .  .  .     .         objection  implied  in  the   question  quoted, 

we  have  been  desirous  of  reproducing  ^/^  ..^hat  is  simple  enough,  tell  them  the 
in  our  Apple  Blossom  Department  the  truth.  Most  people  do  not  become  Vege- 
article  by  Mary  Henry  Rossiter  on  "Vege-     tarians  until   they   have  one  foot    in   the 


d  by  Google 


^FOODHONEv^'^GARDENl 


grave.  They  refuse  to  give  up  the  flesh- 
pots  until  they  are  forced  to  do  so.  Their 
stomachs  have  been  ruined  by  their  sins 
against  them,  andthey  are  only  too  fortunate 
to  live  at  all ,  to  say  nothing  of  looking  pale 
and  thin.  Most  of  them  would  be  dead 
were  it  not  for  their  reform  in  diet." 

The  physician  added,  "If  you  wish  to 
see  rosy  and  plump  Vegetarians,  look  at 
the  Vegetarian  children.  You  cannot  find 
children  brought  up  on  rational  principles, 
that  are  pale  and  thin." 

This  physician's  own  children  afFbrd  a 
fine  proof  of  his  assertion.  They  are  all 
rosy-cheeked,  healthy  and  vigorous.  They 
ride  a  troop  of  Shetland  ponies.  They 
swim,  row,  sail,  skate,  ride  bicycles,  raise 
flowers  and   vegetables,   and  are  well  ac- 


ROBERT 


Paul 


do  with  it,  but  finally  decided  to  play  with 
it.  When  she  had  a  favorable  opportunity, 
she  threw  it  out  the  window. 

None  of  the  children  in  this  family  of 
fifteen  ever  thinks  of  eating  candies,  or  ever 
sees  any  meat  at  home .  They  all  look  upon 
flesh-eating  with  the  same  feeling  that  most 
people  have  toward  cannibalism. 


Cei:ii,  Terisita  I  valine 
quainted  with  forest  trees  and  flowers :  keep 
weather  observations,  know  how  to  use  the 
saw,  plane,  draw-shave,  chisel,  bitts,  and 
and  all  sorts  of  cabinet-maker's  tools  ;  they 
weave  baskets,  sketch,  draw,  paint,  take 
care  of  a  large  house,  do  all  sorts  of  house- 
keeping, cooking  and  laundry  work,  and 
are  always  well  and  strong. 

Bessie,  Agnes,  Hattie  and  Helena  are 
fast  growing  into  young  womanhood,  and 
happier,  more  useful,  more  sensible  maidens 
could  scarcely  be  found.  They  have  been 
reared  strictly  upon  hygienic  principles. 
When  Bessie  was  a  very  little  girl,  her 
mother  took  her  upon  a  railway  journey. 
A  lady  fellow  passenger  gave  B«^ie  some 
candy.     The  child   did  not  know  what   to 


Georgie      Ricardo      Newell 


One  of  the  happiest  hours  of  our  life  was 
spent  with  these  bright  children.  Their 
teacher  kindly  gave  np  her  school  to  us  and 
we  gave  them  a  lesson  in  Pitman's  Phonog- 
raphy. They  learned  very  rapidly,  actually 
reading  and  writing  words  in  short-hand 
within  the  hour.— Ed.  F  H  &  G. 


To  be  continued  ii 


DigiTizsdbyGoOgle 


another  IDegetatian  IDfctor?. 


A  Vegetarian  quartette  of  boys  outwalk  the  pick  of  the  Turners  (Ath- 
letic Society)  of  Berlin,  who  are  Flesh-eaters.  Forty-one  miles  in 
17  hours  by  children  from  7  to  14  years  of  age.  The  flesh  eatiiig 
children  gave  up  before  half  the  distance  had  been  walked. 

(See  page   i(i 


d  by  Google 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


Vol.  II,  New  Series,  No.  23.  DECEMBER,  1898.  Whole  Number 96.. 

HEALTH  COLLEGES. 


DR.  AUG.  F.  REINHOLD,  of  the 
Institute  of  Water  Core,  New  York 
City,  whose  portrait  we  present  on 
the  opposite  page,  has  produced  Nature  vs. 
Drugs  and  Positive  Prevention  and  Cure  of 
Tuberculosis.  He  has  also  translated  from 
the  German,  Kuhne's  Facial  Diagnosis. 
These  works  and  a  successful  practice  in 
connection  with  his  Water-cure,  have  given 
him  prominence  and  inspired  the  confidence 
of  the  Health  promoters  of  what  is  known 
as  the  Hygieatc  School.  His  position  in 
New  York  City  very  much  resembles  that 
taken  by  the  revered  Dr,  Trail,  who  opened 
the  first  water-cure  there  and  established 
the  first  College  of  Hygiene  nearly  fifty 
years  ago,  at  15  Laight  Street. 

We  hope  soon  to  give  a  picture  of  the 
new  college  building  to  be  established  by 
Dr.  Reinhold.  To  promote  the  object  in 
view,  it  is  proposed  to  establish  a  United 
States  Society  for  the  Promotion  of  Public 
Health.  The  avowed  purpose  is  to  "estab- 
lish Health  Colleges  all  over  the  country." 
It  is  a  great  object ,  but  it  is  deemed  best  to 
establish  them  one  at  a  time  and  to  begin 
with  New  York. 

The  study  of  Health  and  its  preservation 
is  to  be  the  chief  feature,  while  the  study  of 
anatomy,  surgery,  bacteriology  and  kindred 
sciences  will  be  facilitated  by  avoiding  the 
study  ofdmgson  which  the  time  of  students 
in  medical  colleges  is  usually  wasted. 

The  modem  method  of  cure,  water,  diet, 
massage,  mental  healing,  ostreopathy,  etc.. 


are  to  be  taught  and  their  respective  merits 
compared,  gymnastics,  calisthenics,  lung 
exercise  to  be  practically  taught  by  exer- 
cises in  rowing,  riding,  driving  and  other 
harmless  sports.  The  object  is  to  train  the 
students  to  be  examples  and  apostles  of 
health  rather  than  mere  healers  of  the  sick. 
Instruction  may  also  be  given  in  oratory 
and  journalism,  so  as  to  fit  students  to 
enlighten  the  public. 

With  an  army  of  100,000  medical  doctors 
the  inhabitants  of  the  United  States  are 
nearly  all  more  or  less  ailing,  while  the 
wild  beasts  of  the  forests  enjoy  immunity 
from  disease.  This  being  the  case,  the 
students  of  the  proposed  Health  Colleges 
will  be  made  thoroughly  competent  to  suc- 
cessfully handle  any  abnormal  condition. 

Many  of  the  branches  taught  will  be  such 
as  students  can  master  at  home,  only  a  few 
branches  requiring  personal  attendance,  so 
that  a  student  may  hold  a  business  position 
in  the  day-time  while  receiving  preliminary 
instruction  and  earning  enough  to  complete 
his  course  in  college  afterwards.  Both 
sexes  are  to  b«!  admitted  on  an  equal  footing. 

The  colleges  are  to  be  incorporated  and 
students  to  remain  under  the  protection  of 
the  Society  until  rights  equal  to  those  of  the 
graduates  of  other  colleges  are  secured  by 
law. 

Proper  precaution  will  be  taken  to  admit 
none  but  persons  of  good  reputation  as 
students  and  no  diplomas  will  be  granted 
except  on  the  concurrence  of  the  iaculty. 

»63 


d  by  Google 


[FOOD  H0i1E# GARDEN 


^^ 


The  diplouia  will  remain  the  property  of 
the  college  subject  to  withdrawal,  should 
the  graduate  prove  unworthy. 

The  Health  Society  expect  to  publish  a 
periodical  and  establish  Health  Resorts, 
Laboratories  and  food  factories.  Every 
health  reformer  is  cordially  invited  to  join 
the  Society  within  the  present  mouth,  so 
that  the  periodical  can  be  issued  about  the 
fiist  of  the  new  year.  No  expectation  of 
personal  gain  is  entertained  by  the  pro- 
moters. 

Contributions,  literary  and  financial,  are 
to  be  addressed  to  Dr.  A.  F.  Reinhold,  60 
Lexington  avenue.  New  York,  from  whom 
further  particulars  can  be  obtained. 

Although  not  personally  acquainted  with 
Dr.  Reinhold,  we  have  reason  to  believe  he 
is  an  enthusiastic,  honest,  able  and  ener- 
getic reformer,  and  we  wish  him  success  in 
uniting  the  Health  Reformers  of  the  whole 
country  in  the  proposed  organization. 


TUBERCULOSIS. 
Dr.  James  Lawe  has  been  discussing  with 
Mr.  Parker,  in  the  Rural  New  Yorker,  the 
liability  of  persons  becoming  infested  with 
tuberculosis  from  eating  slaughtered  beasts 
that  have  that  disease,  and  says  "the  al- 
most constant  succession  of  cases  in  which 
tuberculosis  has  been  speedily  induced  by 
feeding,  puts  the  opposite  opinion  entirely 
out  of  Court.  Tubercle  has  an  especial 
tendency  to  attack  lymphatic  glands,  and 
these  glands  are  scattered  through  the  car- 
cass as  offered  for  sale  in  the  butcher's  shop. 
The  udder  often  suffers  without  showing 
anything  which  would  lead  to  suspicion 
during  life.  The  butcher's  knife  or  cleaver 
used  on  the  tuberculous  internal  organs  or 
bones,  and  even  the  butcher's  hands,  are 
ready  meansof  conveyance  of  the  bacillus  to 
other  parts  of  the  carcass.  But  it  is  even 
allowed  that  25  percent,  of  meat  and  milk 
164 


of  tuberculosis  animals  may  be  infecting. 
Is  not  this  enough  to  demand  intelligent 
sanitary  protection?"  The  feet  is,  there  is 
no  possibility  of  preventing  tuberculous 
meat  from  being  offered  for  sale,  and  con- 
sequently the  only  safety  is  in  not  buying 
any. 


VEG.  COLONY  IN  ARKANSAS. 
Our  esteemed  friend,  G,  H.  Timmerman, 
formerly  of  Nasby  P.  0.,St.  Louis  Co.. 
Mo.,  has,  he  writes,  started  a  Vegetarian 
Colony.  It  is  in  Northeastern  Arkansas, 
on  the  St.  Louts,  Iron  Mountain  and 
Southern  Railroad.  He  claims  that  the 
land  there  will  grow  nearly  everything  for 
men  to  live  on,  from  cotton  to  wheat,  frails 
and  vegetables.  It  can  be  bought  from  S3 
to  $5  an  acre  in  timber,  according  to  dis- 
tance from  shipping  point.  One  mile  from 
town  it  can  be  had  for  J3  and  even  less  thsn 
that  farther  off.  There  are  some  small 
houses  on  it  which  can  be  had  now  i^uite 
cheap.  For  $10,  cleared  and  improved 
land  can  be  had  of  very  fine  quality.  Any 
industrious  Vegetarian  could  get  along 
without  difficulty  on  such  land.  Those 
who  wish  to  know  more  about  it  should 
write  to  Mr.  G.  H.  Timmerman.  Valley 
Park,  Mo. 


MECHANICAL  EFFECT  OF  FOOD. 

The  assertion  sometimes  made  that  man 
requires  just  so  many  ounces  of  certain 
chemical  ile  m  en  ts  every  day  and  that  every- 
thing taken  beyond  that  is  injurious  and 
even  poisonous,  should  be  taken  with  some 
allowance.  The  man  who  recently  restricted 
himself  to  the  requisite  amount  of  nutri- 
ment with  the  full  expectation  of  living  till 
he  was  100  years  old,  died  at  74  Butthen, 
he  included  beef  in  his  dietary,  not  r^aid- 
ing  the  poisonous  ptomains  contained 
therein.  We  believe  the  mechanical  efiiect 
December. 


d  by  Google 


rnioD  HOMEv^'^GARDENtt^S- 


of  food  should  always  be  considered  and 
this  is  usually  obtained  from  fibrine  or  other 
iDDutritious  elements  which  are  as  import- 
ant to  the  healthy  action  of  the  organs  of 
nutrition  as  are  the  nutritious  elements. 
All  fruit  and  vegetables  as  well  as  grain 
contain  fiberous  parts  and  they  should  not 
be  eliminated  until  they  have  performed 
their  important  functions.  Birds  often 
swallow  small  pebbles  in  order  to  obtain, 
not  nourishment,  but  mechanical  aid  to 
digestion.  Our  caged  pets  require  sand  or 
fine  gravel ;  mules  in  the  army  have  been 
known  to  eat  the  wooden  sides  of  their 
army  wagons  when  hay  and  fodder  have 
been  scarce.  Physiology  must  be  recog- 
nized as  well  as  chemistry. 


ANOTHER  VEGETARIAN  VICTORY. 
Our  friend  Dr.  John  E.  Keidell  is  a  zeal- 
ous Vegetarian.  When  at  the  World's 
Fair,  Chicago,  he  attended  the  Vegetarian 
Convention  and  made  several  telling 
speeches  in  English.  In  one  of  these 
speeches  he  related  that  50  German  Tumere 
had  a  race  with  50  Austrian  Turners.  That 
they  left  Berlin  on  foot  to  see  who  had  the 
mostendurauceinreaching  Vienna.  Among 
these  racers  were  three  Vegetarians.  The 
newspapers  made  fiin  of  them,  but  the 
Vegetarians  said  wait  and  see,  "he  laughs 
best  who  laughs  last."  "Yesterday,"  said 
Dr.  Keidel,  "  I  got  a  telegram  that  all  the 
97  meat  eaters  collapsed  and  did  not  reach 
the  goal,  whereas  the  three  Vegetarians  did, 
and  one  of  them  won  the  race . ' ' 

Dr.  Keidel  returned  to  Germany  and  a 
bequest  having  been  made  for  the  establish- 
ment of  an  orphans'  boarding  school  in 
Berlin,  the  control  of  which  being  placed  in 
the  hands  of  the  City  Councils,  with  the 
pioviso  that  the  children  be  fed  on  Vegeta- 
rian &re,  in  which  imilk,  butter  and  eggs 
might  be  included,  but  no  flesh,  there  was 


some  hesitation  on  the  part  of  the  authorities 
as  to  whether  the  children  could  be  properly 
nourished  without  flesh-meat.  To  satisfy 
them  on  this  subject.  Dr.  Keidel  oflTercd  to 
test  the  matter  of  endurance  of  fatigue  with 
his  own  three  boys  in  a  wandering  match 
with  any  number  of  flesh-eating  boys  who 
might  be  selected  by  the  Turners  (Athletic 
Society)  of  Berlin.  The  desire  was  not  to 
show  speed  so  much  as  ability  to  endure 
protracted  exertion  without  injury. 

At  6  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  the  ad  of 
October,  only  two  meat -eating  boys  selected 
by  the  Turner's  Society  were  on  hand  and 
six  Vegetarians,  three  of  Dr.  Keidel '3  boys 
and  three  other  Vegetarian  boys.  The  ages 
of  the  boys  ranged  from  7  to  14  years.  The 
eight  boys  headed  by  Dr.  Keidel  started  on 
their  ramble.  They  leisurely  walked,  each 
with  his  cane  beaded  by  a  bunch  of  flowers, 
and  arrived  at  Potsdam,  about  eigeteen 
miles  from  Berlin,  at2.3O0'clock.  All  the 
Vegetarians  were  in  excellent  condition, 
but  the  two  picked  flesh-eating  boys  were 
tired  out  and  declined  to  go  any  further — 
gave  up  the  contest.  Dr.  Keidel  and  his 
three  sons  and  one  other  Vegetarian  boy 
started  again  at  3.30,  reaching  Werden  at  7 
o'clock  without  other  resting,  in  fine  con- 
dition. 

The  next  morning,  whistling  and  singing, 
the  party  started  barefoot  and  bareheaded, 
as  seen  in  our  picture  (page  161),  followed 
by  a  multitude  of  men,  women  and  child- 
ren, who  were  astonished  at  what  they 
regarded  as  an  exhibition  of  cranks.  They 
reached  Brandenburg  at  7  o'clock,  P.  M.,  in 
fine  condition,  their  feet  uninjured,  singing 
and  swinging  their  canes.  The  certificate  of 
the  mayor  of  Brandenburg  as  to  their  good 
condition  on  arriving  was  readily  obtained. 
They  had  walked  17  hours  in  the  two  days, 
and  the  distance  from  Berlin  to  Branden- 
burg, as  near  as  we  can  make  out  by  the 

165 


DigiTi; 


d  by  Google 


iFOODHOMEv^rGARDENi 


map  is  about  41  miles,  which  showed  good 
perseverance  and  endurance  in  children 
trom  7  to  14  years  of  age. 

Dr.  Keidel  and  his  children  live  without 
any  kind  of  animal  food  and  Dr.  Keidel  has 
so  lived  about  15  years,  during  which  time 
he  has  raised  a  family  including  these  three 
boys,  who,  on  theirretum,  accompanied  by 
their  father,  called  at  the  offices  of  the 
newspapers  and  their  picture  was  taken  and 
the  acconnt  of  their  walking  published 
throughout  the  German  Kmpire.  They 
were  also  taken  to  the  Department  of  War, 
where  the  Chief  Physician  critically  exam- 
ined them  and  pronounced  their  flesh  firm, 
their  health  sound,  their  complexion  good 
and  declaring  himself  perfectly  satisfied 
with  their  appearance,  and  that  they  would 
make  excellent  dragoons  for  His  Majesty, 
the  Emperor, 

We  understand  Dr.  Keid«l  intends  soon 
tocome  again  to  this  country  aud  with  his 
boys  will  walk  to  the  principal  cities 
between  New  York,  Philadelphia  and  San 
Francisco,  where  they  expect  to  embark  for 
Honolulu,  with  the  view  of  establishing 
therea  Sanitarium  of  "Natnral  Cure."  We 
hope  to  see  them  in  Philadelphia  in  the 
summer  of  1899. 

Dr.  Keidel  is  quite  musical  as  well  as  a 
fluent  and  humorous  speaker,  and  will 
enliven  his  public  addresses  with  appropriate 
songs,  and  with  his  boys,  will  form  an 
entertaining  quartette. 


THE  URIC  ACID  CONTROVERSY. 

A  paragraph  published  by  an  obscure 
local  newspaper  in  England,  but  without 
giving  authority,  has  been  copied  into  many 
papers  and  periodicals  in  both  England  and 
this  country,  referring  to  a  permission  being 
granted  to  the  Dominican  Order  by  the 
Church  of  Rome  to  eat  flesh-meat  (uric  acid 
food)  four  times  a  week.  It  proclaimed  this 
166 


permission  as  a  "secession  from  Vegetarian- 
ism." The  Vegetarian,  London,  says  the 
explanation  is  that  "the  Dominicans  are 
not  and  never  have  been  Vegetariacs."  It 
is  well-known  that  the  Roman  Catholic 
Church  maintains  its  popularity  among  its 
supporters  by  concessions  to  popular  taste 
and  indulgences,  a  peculiarity,  however, 
not  by  any  means  confined  to  that  Church. 

And  now  the  Public  Health  Journal,  of 
New  York,  has  published  this  paragraph  in 
apparent  innocence  of  its  origin  or  lack  of 
authority  and  candor.  The  same  paper  also 
publishes  with  apparent  approval,  an  article 
entitled  "Dietary  Faddists,"  attackingthe 
Ralston  Club  for  its  advocacy  of  a  fruit  and 
nut  diet,  claiming  that  "It  has  evolved  a 
theory  which  is  truly  ponderous  in  the  way 
in  which  it  tramples  down  the  joys  of  the 
table."  It  exults  over  the  assertion  that 
the  raven  lives  to  be  100  years  old,  and  that 
he  lives  on  carrion.  But  says  nothing  of 
the  age  of  the  elephant  that  not  only  com- 
monly exceeds  100  years,  but  has  been 
known  to  live,  even  "in  domestication, 
almost  200  years. ' '  {Standard  American  En- 
cyclopedia.) The  Public  Health  Journal  pre 
diets  great  physical  evils  from  a  fruit  diet, 
but  carefully  excludes  allusion  to  the  fact 
that  nut  and  cereal  foods  are  taking 
the  place  of  the  uric-acid  diet  it  prescribes 
for  acid  dyspeptics. 

We  humbly  suggest  that  the  writer  in  the 
Publu  Health  Journal  Tf^AVir.  Haig's  AW 
and  Food  in  Relation  to  Strength  and  P&-xer 
oj  Endurance,  and  also  Dr.  Haig's  more 
extensive  work  on  Uric  Acid  as  a  Factor  in 
the  Causation  of  Disease.  (London.  Church- 
ill.) By  these  books  he  will  see  that  Ibe 
most  advanced  medical  practitioner,  not  a 
"faddist,"  of  the  regular  school  of  medicine 
condemns  strongly  a  fiesh  diet  as  one  of  the 
chief  factors  in  promoting  the  diseases  noif 
so  alarmingly  prevalent. 

December. 


d  by  Google 


^foodhome^s^gardeNI 


THE    LORD'S    FARM    DIETARY. 

The  mode  of  living  at  Lord's  Farm,  N. 
J.,  is  strictly  Vegetarian,  eating  no  meat, 
nor  asingany  animal  products  such  as  milk, 
batter,  lard  and  eggs.  The  food  they  eat 
does  not  differ  materially  from  the  food  of 
other  farmers,  with  the  exception  of  the 
elimiaation  of  flesh  and  animal  products. 
The  breakfast  to-day  might  be  oatmeal, 
fried  potatoes,  bread  made  from  whole- 
wheat flour,  and  apple  sauce.  To-morrow 
it  might  be  com  meal  instead  of  oatmeal, 
otherwise  it  is  the  same.  The  dinner  to- 
day might  be  baked  beans,  boiled  potatoes, 
bread,  and  stewed  pears.  To-morrow  it 
might  be  a  stew  consisting  of  potatoes, 
onions,  parsnips,  and  .carrots;  bread  and 
apple  sauce.  Supper  is  usually  the  same 
as  dinner  with  the  addition  of  some  plain 
mola.^ses  cookies  once  a  week.  Other  days 
we  may  have  soup,  rye  meal  porridge,  en- 
tire wheat  porridge,  rice,  sweet  potatoes, 
peas,  tomatoes,  cabbage,  turnips,  celery, 
apple  cake,  brown  betty,  stewed  plums,  etc. 
at  the  different  meals.  We  do  not  have 
much  of  a  variety  at  one  meal,  but  what  we 
do  have  is  extremely  plain,  simple,  and  in 
abundance. — Chauncey  Roe,  Woodcliff, 
N.J. 


GOOD  HEALTH  THE    RESULT. 

I  have  lived  a  Vegetarian  life  a  little 
over  five  years.  And  during  these  five 
years  I  have  enjoyed  good  health,  while 
before  I  was  troubled  with  a  disordered 
stomach  and  had  to  use  medicines  of  various 
kinds.  Now  I  abhor  both  medicine  and 
animal  diet,  and  am  filled  with  remorse  and 
regret  for  the  cruelties  inflicted  upon,  and 
the  lives  I  have  taken  from  the  animal 
creation,  before  my  eyes  were  opened  to 
this  gross  wrong  committed  upon  our  fel- 
low creatures.  What  right  have  we  to  over- 
power the  poor  innocent  creatures  and  take 


their  lives  and  devour  their  carcasses? 
None  whatever,  it  is  only  a  case  of  might 
makes  right.  I  have  been  a  reader  of  Food, 
Home  a  Garden  for  nearly  five  years  and 
have  received  much  good  food  for  the  brain 
from  its  columns.  It  should  be  in  every 
family  because  it  brings  light  to  all  who^are 
groping  in  ignorance  and  darkness.  May 
angel  hosts  hover  over  all  the  workers  for 
it  and  the  cause  of  Vegetarianism;  and 
may  they  ever  bring  to  us  more  light,  wis- 
dom and  knowledge  is  my  prayer. — R.  T. 
Hendricks,  Box  a,  Douglasville,  Ga. 

DEATH  OF    COL.    WARING. 

Immunity,  now  so  often  mentioned,  can 
be  secured  on  moderate  terms  by  dietetic 
reformers,  who  otherwise  live  hygienically . 
The  lamented  decease  of  Colonel  Waring 
by  black  vomit  no  doubt  was  due  to  his 
susceptibility  to  militant  conditions  within 
his  physique  (a  full  habit  and  advanced 
years)  while  officially  engaged  in  investi- 
gating Havana.  He  went  thither  unpre- 
pared to  resist  an  untoward  combination  of 
circumstances  aggravated  by  recent  events, 
altho'  the  rainy  and  most  trying  season  was 
past.  Had  he  been  in  a  positive  bodily 
state. viz.;  foriified  by  normal  blood,  strong 
nerves,  wiry  tissue,  he  would  not  have  been 
affected.  Clean  blood,  healthy  tissue,  firm 
pulp  (flesh):  a  temperature  not  subject  to 
very  notable  variation,  he  would  have  been 
immune  and  have  helped  to  realize  the  re- 
demption of  Havana  from  being  a  hotbed 
of  yellow  fever,  typhoid  fever  &c. 

When  exterior  jeopardy  is  closely  related 
to  similar  Interior  states  of  organs  essential 
to  health  and  vigor,  death  readily  results. 
Had  he  known  and  practised  preventive 
measures  suitable  for  a  temperate  zone,  he 
might  easily  have  added  specific  ones,  and 
so  been  insured. — R.  Hecker,  Philadelphia, 
Nov.  I,  1898. 

167 


d  by  Google 


I  FOOD  MOMEv*^  GARDEN! 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


V 

■OBTARIAH  SOCIKTV  O 

P  AHBRIC* 

pub 

■hen. 

St.. 

mmunlcatiotui    lo  be  iddroKd 
SUllon  P.  INot  loCbestaut  St 

Phil 

delphi 

Icrod 

REV.    HRNRVS 

CLUBB.  I 

Wllor. 

On«  b 

t  SubKTlpt 

ODI    $ 

.00  .y 

■r. 

It  Insertions  ft. 99.    Por  it  lines   ilnserHonti 
Sis. 

S; 

He  described  ihe  former  as  especially  noted 
for  the  growth  of  an  excellent  quality  of 
wheat.  That  the  apples  grown  on  the  hill- 
sides were  very  fine  and  apparently  free 
from  insects.  Remarks  were  also  made  by 
Revs.  A.  T.  de  Learsy  and  H.  S.  Clubb. 


TO  SUBSCRIBERS. 
Many    subscriptions    expire     with    this 
number.      Our    friends  will  please   renew 
promptly  and  avoid  loss  of  a  number. 


The  value  of  atmospheric  fertilization  is 
becoming  more  and  more  apparent.  The 
supposed  necessity  of  keeping  animals  to 
transform  good  food  like  com  into  manure, 
is  discovered  to  be  an  error  similar  to  the 
beef  tea  delusion  and  the  flesh-eating 
fallacy. 


The  address  of  Dr.  John  E.  Keidel  is 
Steglitz,  near  Berlin,  Prussia.  He  desires 
to  hear  from  his  American  friends. 


Please  to  remember  in  making  your  list 
of  presents  that  Food,  Home  and  Garden 
for  a  year  is  the  best  present  you  can  get  for 
25  cents — four  for  $1 .00. 


We  have  received  the  card  of  "The 
Vegetarian,"  the  only  Hygienic  Cafe'  in 
Detroit,  23  Wilcox  street,  Stanley  B.  Hu- 
ber,  manager.  It  appears  to  keep  all  the 
Sanitarium  Health  Foods  made  at  Battle 
Creek,  and  we  have  no  doubt  it  will  be  a 


The  New  York  Vegetarian  Society  has 
resumed  its  monthly  meetings  at  98  Fifth 
avenue,  comer  of  15th  street.  Its  last 
meeting  was  held  Tuesday,  November  22. 

The  Bagster  Bible,  either  the  illustrated 
or  teachers'  editions,  is  admfrably  adapted 
for  Christmas  or  New  Year's  presents.  See 
advertisement  for  our  special  premium  offer. 


The  transformation  of  nitrogen  from  a 
free  to  a  fixed  condition  is  referred  to  as 
already  accomplished  by  Sir  Arthur  Cotton 
by  intensive  agriculture.  (See  page  174.) 
This,  if  true,  is  accomplishing  by  a  winter 
fallow,  what  has  usually  required  a  whole 
summer  clover  cropping  and  plowing  in  in 
the  fall. 


One  of  the  most  humorous  and  the  most 
favorable  to  reformed  diet  of  our  food  con- 
temporaries is  IV/iat  lo  Eat,  published  by 
Pierce  &  Pierce,  Minneapolis  and  Chicago, 
$1 .00  a  year.  It  is  ably  edited  and  charm- 
ingly illustrated. 


A  friend  in  Andover,  Mass.,  desires  us  to 
send  Food,  Home  and  Garden  to  each  of 
the  150  negro  colleges.  Will  our  benev- 
olent friends  donate  the  amount  neces- 
sary to  do  this  for  a  year?  The  cost 
is  about  $37.50.  The  susceptible  race 
would   be  great'.y  benefitted   by  such    an 

A  very  interesting  address  was  delivered  *^         '   

by  Mr.  Henry  Doolittle  at  the  meeting  of  The  Public  Health  Journal  says  :  "the 
the  Vegetarian  Society  of  Philadelphia,  at  eminent  surgeon  closed  up  his  pocket 
1023  Foulkrod  street,  on  Wednesday  even-  book  with  a  snap  on  the  $100  fee  he  had 
ing,  November  16,  1898.  Mr.  Doolittle  received  for  an  operation  for  appendicitis, 
had  visited  Tennessee  and  North  Carolina.  'Tell  me  the  appendix  vermifarmis  is  a  use- 
168  December, 


DigiTi; 


dbyGoo^^lc 


I  FOOD  HbME^  GARDEN  I 


lessorgaii,  will  yoa?'  he  soliloquized."  We 
feel  that  this  sentiment  is  quite  prevalent 
and  is  one  reason  why  real  health  move- 
ments are  opposed  by  the  profession.  They 
are  detrimental  to  professional  interests. 

Since  we  started  Food,  Home  and  Gar- 
DBM,  numerous  magazines  have  been  com- 
menced on  the  subject  of  food.  Some  have 
succeeded  admirably,  among  which  we  are 
glad  to  mention  Ta6/e  Talk,  Philadelphia, 
beautifully  printed  and  full  of  valuable  in- 
formation, menues,  recipes,  etc.,  Ji.oo  a 
year. 


ing  the  soil  to  the  action  of  frost  to  as  great 
a  depth  as  possible.  This  experience  will 
probably  lead  our  plow-makers  to  invent  a 
long-pointed  plow  with  a  hump  that  would 
run  under  soil  frozen  4  to  6  inches  deep,  so 
as  to  break  up  the  crust  and  further  expose 
the  soil  to  the  action  of  frost. 


The  Public  Health  Journal  takes  sides 
somewhat  hostile  to  the  Vegetarian  cause, 
while  the  London  Lancet  and  Dr.  Haig  are 
valiently  combatting  the  use  of  uric  acid 
food  as  the  chief  cause  of  disease.  We 
charitably  attribute  the  Journal's  hostility 
to  want  of  information  and  have  referred 
the  writer  to  Dr.  Haig's  works. 


The  English  Vegetarian  publications  are 
well  filled  with  the  proceedings  of  the 
annual  meetings  of  the  Vegetarian  Society, 
the  Vegetarian  Federal  Union  and  the 
Order  of  the  Golden  Age.  Glad  to  see  them 
all  prospering.  If  not  so  crowded  with  our 
own  matter  we  would  gladly  reproduce 
some  of  their  valuable  papers. 


No  wonder  our  soldiers  came  home  sick. 
These  are  the  articles  placed  first  on  the 
list  of  relief  supplies  furnished  by  the 
Associate  Society  of  the  Red  Cross  of  Phil- 
adelphia from  then-  card  soliciting  dona- 
tions: Salt  pork,  corned  beef  in  barrel, 
codfish,  hard  cured,  mackerel  in  kits, 
smoked  beef  and  hams,  bacon,  canned  sal- 
mon, smoked  sausage. 


"Intensive  agriculture"  in   England  and 
the  experience  of  a  German  emigrant   (see 
page  174)  both  point  to  the  value  of  expos- 
1898 


Mrs.  Ada  M.  Morley,  the  friend  and  host- 
ess of  Schlatter  believes  Schlatter  is  in  the 
jungles  of  South  America  or  the  mountains 
of  Mexico  "communing  with  the  Eternal." 
She  says  the  man  who  pretends  to  be 
Schlatter  is  an  impostor.  She  believes 
Schlatter  will  come  again  from  his  seclusion 
with  increased  healing  power,  and  533^  she 
will  not  give  up  this  belief  till  the  last 
momentof  1900  A.  D. 


THE  "NOSEGAY  BRAND." 
A  large  number  of  American  hams  of  the 
"Nosegay  Brand"  have  been  condemned  in 
England  as  unfit  for  human  food.  They 
were  rotten  and  had  an  intolerably  bad 
smell. 


COLONIZING. 
Our  good  brother  Savory  gives  us,  in  this 
number,  a  sketch  of  his  views  on  coloniz- 
ing. He  believes  that  Vegetarians  should 
unite  in  one  of  the  two  successful  Social 
Colonies  :  either  at  Ruskin  or  at  Edison, 
before  embarking  in  a  purdy  Vegetarian 
Colony.  His  eye  is  on  Edison  and  he 
wants  other  Vegetarians  to  go  there  with 
him.  No  doubt  experience  gained  in  those 
colonies  would  be  very  valuable  and  his 
belief  that  Vegetarians  would  exercise  a 
good  influence  in  those  colonies  is  a  very 
good  reason  for  uniting  with  them,  but  the 
importance  of  colonizing  so  as  to  have  the 
sanitary  and  moral  as  well  as  spiritual  ad 
vantages  of  Vegetarianism  practically  set 
forth  is  also  of  great  importance,  not  mere- 
ly for  the  Vegetarian  colonists  themselves 
but  for  the  good  the  example  would  do  to 
others  in  proving  results. 

■«<i 


db,  Google 


^  FOOD  HOME^ GARDEN 


CO-OPERATIVE  COLONIES. 
By  Rev.  Geo.  W.  Savory. 

Can  we  have  one  ?  Or  would  it  be  better 
to  graft  ourselves  upon  some  colony  already 
in  operation  ?  It  is  my  opiiiion  that  Veg- 
etarianism is  hardly  a  basis  for  co-operation. 

What  then  is  a  basis  for  colonization? 
As  it  is  probable  there  cannot  be  perfect 
uniformity  upon  any  one  of  the  higher 
ideals,  let  the  basis  be  one  of  co-operation 
in  becoming  our  own  employers,  escaping 
the  uncertainty  and  slavery  of  hirelings. 
This  is  sufficient  as  a  platform  for  the  broad- 
est friendship  and  highest  succe«>  in  things 
temporal,  moral,  intellectual,  spiritual.  For 
we  start  out  then  with  the  virtual  pledge 
that  each  shall  be  protected  in  his  rights  on 
all  the  higher  planes  of  thought. 

"If  meat  make  my  brother  to  offend,  I 
will  eat  no  more  meat  while  the  world 
standetb."  But  can  \  turn  that  noble  prin- 
ciple into  dust  and  say;  "My  brother's 
meat  offends  me,  therefore  he  shall  eat  no 
more  while  the  world  standeth?"  No,  let 
him  eat  "hog  and  hominy"  while  I  eat 
cream  and  hominy,  while  the  man  more  ad- 
vanced than  either  of  us  eats  orange  juice 
and  hominy.  If  any  of  us  are  offensively 
coarse  or  boastful  of  our  pet  dish,  we  hurt 
ourselves  more  than  any  observer,  and  if  we 
are  polite  enough  and  pleasant  enough  and 
sympathetic  enough  toward  the  hog-loving 
man  and  toward  his  opinions  and  grovelling 
appetite,  remembering  the  pit  whence  we 
ourselves  were  dug,  we  may  win  him  to  the 
higher  plane. 

"Equality  Colony,"  Edison,  Wash.,  has 
about  300  members  on  the  ground,  witli 
3000  more  backing  the  enterprise  by  contri- 
butions and  regular  assessntents,  many  of 
them  looking  forward  to  a  home  at  the 
colony  later.  It  costs  $160  cash  to  join 
this  colony  and  six  month's  probation  is 
required.  It  owns  over  600  acres  of  land, 
170 


considerable  machinery  and  stock,  ample 
timber,  a  sloop  on  Puget  Sound,  etc.. — all 
paid  for — and  publishes  a  weekly  periodical 
called  Industrial  Freedom,  which  will  de- 
scribe their  life  to  any  interested, 

"Ruskin  Co-operative  Association,"  Rus- 
kin,  Tenn.,  is  older,  larger,  richer,  bull 
think  less  intellectual  and  spiritual,  and 
charges  $500  membership  fee.  The  Coming 
Nation  is  their  paper,  ably  edited  and  gen- 
erously assisting  for  many  months  in  the 
start  of  "Equality  Colony." 

These  colonies  are  on  the  co-operative 
basis  and  having  within  them  the  true  pro- 
gressive spirit,  with  the  example  of  Vegeta- 
rians among  them,  may  ultimately  adopt 
the  higher  and  purer  life  of  Vegetarian  prac- 
tice as  specially  conducive  to  the  degree  of 
civilization  and  refinement  their  organiza- 
tion was  intended  to  develop. 

A  GOOD  PLACE  TO  BOARD. 

Writing  under  date  of  Santa  Barbara, 
Cal.,  October  30,  1898,  Prof.  D.  Gregorson 
thus  describes  his  facilities  for  providing 
good  Vegetarian  fare  : 

"We  would  be  glad  to  have  such  a  hearty 
Vegetarian  as  you  are  for  a  boarder.  With 
the  abundance  of  the  vegetable  kingdom,  it 
is  easy  to  prepare  something  toothsome.  At 
present  we  are  having  fi'esh  beets  and  car- 
rots and  lettuce  from  our  own  garden.  And 
a  few  spikes  of  asparagus.  And  on  the 
way  to  town,  I  usually  manage  to  pick  np 
a  handful  of  mushrooms.  The  question  is 
not  what  to  eat  when  deprived  of  animal 
products,  but  how  to  enjoy  the  abundance 
we  have,  and  use  it  to 'the  best  advantage. 
Hoping  you  may  long  continue  in  health 
and  vigor  for  the  continuance  of  the  good 
work." 

Should  we  ever  secure  the  leisure  to  visit 
California,  we  would  gladly  become  one  of 
the  privileged  boarders  of  Professor  and  Mis. 
Gregorson.  Some  of  our  friends  who  have 
visited  them  speak  very  highly  of  them- 
See  advertisement. 

December, 


DigiTizsdbyGoOgle 


CHRISTMAS   DINNER. 

Vegteiablc  Slew.  Creum  of  Celery.  Saratoco  Chlpi. 


TomiWo 

■Dd  Vermi 

tUi. 

Baked  Sweet  Polal 

nond  5a 

Tea.                 Peppe 

>n  Bread. 

ole    Wheal    Bread. 

Plain  P 

dd<IIE. 

AMorledCrtM 

c 

Ilfon 

)■ 

Grapes 

Cenal    CoSec.  ChcKolale. 

RECIPES. 
Recipes  for   Mince   Pie,    Plum   Pudding 
and  Lemon  Pie,  in  the  above  menu,  can  be 
fonnd  in  the  "  American  Vegetarian  Cook- 
ery." 

Prom  Re*.  I«sc  B.  Rumrord. 

To  Dry  Olives. — Dry  in  the  son  on  trays 
with  lath  bottoms.  When  dry  soak  them 
two  or  three  days  in  brine  anttl  salt  enough, 
then  re-dry  and  put  away  in  a  dry  place  in 
sacks.  If  they  become  too  dry  they  are 
readily  soaked  as  wanted. 

From  m™.  Datid  Qregonon,  SanU  Barbata.  Cal. 

Vegetable  Stew. — 4  cups  of  water,  i  tea- 
spoonfal  of  salt,  3  bay  leaves,  i  onion,  3 
carrots,  }i  cup  of  string  beans,  J^  doz  let- 
tuce leaves,  2  or  3  tart  apples,  or  tomatoes, 
J4  cup  of  vermicelli,  or  i  cup  of  green  com, 
or  the  same  quantity  of  summer  squash . 
Pat  the  water  on  in  the  stew  pan  an  hour 
and  a  half  before  dinner  time.  Put  in  the 
salt,  then  the  bay  leaves,  then  the  onion 
sliced  fine,  then  the  carrots  also  sliced  fine, 
then  the  lettuce  cut  up,  then  the  apples 
pared,  cored  and  chopped,  a  half  hour  be- 
fore dinner  time,  tlien  the  vermicelli  last, 
or  sago  sometimes.  This  stew  or  soup  may 
be  varied  according  to  the  vegetables  one 
has.  It  is  good  with  tomatoes  instead  of 
apples. 

From  Wra.  C.  Fetria,  1130  N.  Kediie  Ave,  Chkaio. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  eating  pickles  made 
by  Mrs.  V.  P.  Smith  of  Chicago  and  can 
conscientiously  recommend  them  as  perfect- 

1898 


ly  harmless  and  delightfully  acid.  They 
were  made  from  Vegetarian  vinegar  made 
from  fruit  in  the  following  maimer 

Vegetarian  Vinegar. — ^Take  the  skins  of 
fruit  from  which  jelly  has  been  made  or 
which  have  been  used  in  cooking :  grape 
skins,  apple  parings,  peach  skins ;  any 
fruit  skins  will  serve  the  purpose :  Soak 
the  skins  in  water  and  strain  through  a 
cloth.  Add  a  small  quantity  of  sweetened 
water  and  set  in  a  jar  to  ferment :  when  fer- 
mentation is  complete  a  fine  quality  of 
vinegar  is  ready  for  use.  The  pickles  made 
from  such  vinegar  can  be  eaten  without  in- 
jury and  they  will  keep  indefinitely. 

Veg.  Vinegar  Pickle, — Boil  the  vinegar 
and  pour  it  hot  on  the  cucumbers.  Let  tt 
stand  24  hours  then  pour  it  off  and  heat  it 
again :  after  heating  pour  over  the  pickles 
in  a  stone  crock  aud  let  them  stand  until 
ready  for  use.  One  of  these  pickles  can  be 
eaten  as  readily  as  green  sliced  cucumbers 
and  the  flavor  is  fine. 

Vegetarian  Coffee. — ^Take  8  cups  of 
wheat  bran.  Mix  with  4  cups  of  com  meal. 
Saturate  thoroughly  with  New  Orleans 
molasses  and  roast  in  a  hot  oven  for  two 
hours  until  it  is  crisp.  Put  i  heaping  ta- 
blespoonful  to  every  3  cups  of  water  and 
boil  for  10  minutes:  Serve  with  sugar 
and  cream.  This  coffee  costs  far  less  than 
any  that  can  be  bought  and  is  perfectly 
healthful  and  nourishing.  Ten  cups  cost 
about  two  cents. 

ECONOMY  IN  USING  V.  S.  MILL. 
By  using  a  Vegetarian  Mill  to  grind 
wheat  and  com  the  cost  of  living  can  be 
reduced  to  a  minimum  and  the  gain  in 
health  will  repay  for  the  trouble  of  using  it 
many  times  over. — Wm.  C.  Ferris. 

171 


d  by  Google 


^FOOdHONEv'^'^GARDiNl 


FRUIT    AS    MEDICINE. 

A  medical  writer  says ;  "  As  a  medicine 
I  look  upon  fruit  as  a  most  valuable  ally. 
When  the  body  is  in  that  breaking-up  con- 
dition known  as  scurvy,  the  whole  medical 
profession  look  upon  fruit  and  fresh  vege- 
tables as  the  one  and  only  known  remedy. 
Impure  blood  means  gout,  rheumatism,  skin 
diseases,  rickets,  and  othertroubles.  As  it 
is  proved  that  fruit  will  purify  and  improve 
the  quality  of  the  blood,  it  must  follow  that 
fruit  is  both  food  and  medicine  combined. 
'  In  fevers  I  use  grapes  and  strawberries, 
giving  them  to  my  patients  in  small  but  fre- 
quent <1oses — oranges  and  baked  apples  if 
the  others  are  not  obtainable.  For  rheuma- 
tism plenty  of  lemons  are  invaluable. 
White  girls  with  miserable,  pallid  complex- 
ions want  strawberries :  where  these  are  not 
obtainable,  bananas,  which  contain  much 
iron,  are  a  good  substitute.  Probably  of 
all  fruits,  the  apple  stands  unrivaled  for 
general  purposes  in  the  household ;  either 
raw  or  cooked  it  can  be  taken  by  nearly 
everybody,  and  it  contains  similar  properties 
to  the  most  delicate  fruits.  To  my  mind 
the  pear  is  more  easily  digested  than  the 
apple,  and  for  eating  uncooked  is  superior 
to  it.  Dried  fruit  should  be  used  when 
green  cannot  be  obtained.  If  soaked  for  a 
few  hours  before  cooking,  it  makes  a  cap- 
ital substitute  for  fresh  fruit,  and  comes 
cheaper  to  the  consumer." — A'.  IV.  Horli- 
cullurisl. 
VEG.  SOCIETY  MILL   IN  ENGLAND. 

We  sent  to  Mr.  J.  O.  Quinton,  Red  Hill 
Surrey,  Eng.  a  No.  2  Veg.  S'y  Mill  and 
directions  for  using  it  in  tlie  production  of 
nut  foods.  Under  dateof  Red  Hill,  Oct.  22, 
the  following  letter  has  been  received  : 

"  Dear  Sir, — The  mil!  etc.  have  reached 

me  safely  and  I  am  so  pleased  with  all ;  the 

mill  makes  splendid  butter  of  the  long  pea- 

outs,   baked  as  you  suggested.     The  mill 

172 


exceeds  my  expectations  as  regards  simplic- 
ity, ease  in  working  and  thoroughness  in 
grinding  etc.  It  was  too  late  for  the 
Congress  Exhibition,  but  hope  to  get  it 
shown  at  Xmas  festival.  I  fully  believe 
that  a  free  use  of  nuts  will  be  one  of  the 
chief  factors  in  making  Vegetarianism  in 
the  future  more  attainable  than  it  has  been 
in  the  past,  and  that  the  nuts  can  be  made 
generally  useable  by  means  of  this  mill. 

' '  I  can  still  do  40  &  50  mile  walks  without 
fatigue  on  a  fruit  and  nut  diet,  but  could 
not  do  this  on  a  vegetable  diet. — ^J.  0. 
Quinton." 

A   HAPPY    HOME. 

I  remain  the  same  good  friend  I  have 
always  been,  just  as  happy  and  thankful 
about  Food,  Home  &  Garden,  and  re- 
membering that  I  owe  so  much  of  my  free- 
dom and  happiness  to  it:  happiness  con- 
sisting of  the  knowledge  of  the  progress 
Vegetarianism  is  making  in  the  world,  and 
the  freedom  consisting  in  my  emancipation 
from  the  habit  of  eating  eggs,  butter, 
cheese,  and  milk,  which  are  animal  pro- 
ducts, and  I  feel  so  free  and  happy  about 
it ;  for  I  am  just  as  strong  without  them, 
and  I  am  sure  my  health  is  improving. 

We  have  been  wishing  to  do  good  by 
starting  a  restaurant  in  Santa  Barbara.  I 
have  faith  that  better  times  are  surely 
coming. 

We  had  three  inches  of  rain  two  week 
ago,  which  makes  our  country  green  and 
beautiful  again.  I  feel  that  Life  is  a  bless- 
ing. We  are  doing  all  we  can  to  bring  on 
the  time  when  all  people  may  feel  as  free 
and  happy  as  we  are. — Mary  Gregorson, 
Box  239,  Santa  Barbara,  Cal. 

HYGIENIC  INSOLES, 

We  have  received  a  sample  of  Westrup's 
Hygienic  Insoles  made  of  noa-condncUng, 
inorganic     substance.       They     are     very 
cheap  being  only  6cts.  a  pafrby  mail. 
December, 


Digitized  hy  Google 


f 


RDEN 


QUICK-GROWING  MAIZE. 
Cocopah  maize  is  a  very  superior  sort  of 
com.  It  is  obtainable  only  from  southern 
Arizona,  especially  from  Yuma  county. 
In  five  weeks  from  planting  sizeable  roast- 
ing ears  are  had.  Such  com  shelled  might 
be  profitably  shipped  to  northern  regions 
and  made  into  hominy  or  samp,  or  parched 
and  ground  for  mush.  This  com  com- 
mands a  higher  price  in  Arizona  than  any 
other  grown  there. — R.  Hecker. 

DOMESTIC  BEET  SUGAR. 
I  wish  to  recall  an  incident  that  hap- 
pened during  the  pioneer  days  of  Klickitat, 
when,  it  is  said  an  early  settler  made  the 
necessary  supply  of  sugar  for  his  large  fam- 
ily every  fall  from  the  beet  root  by  means 
of  an  ordinary  brass  kettle.  Much  of  the 
soil  of  Klickitat  is  well  adapted  for  the  cul- 
tore  of  sugar  beets.  The  cool  summer 
nights  and  frequent  showers  make  the  cli- 
matic condition  for  the  beet  most  desirable. 
— Lydia  E.  Chaney. 

PEANUT  CULTURE. 
The  Southern  Magazine  has  done  good 
service  by  publishing  details  in  the  culture 
of  Peanuts  in  Tennessee.  Four  million 
bushels  are  used  in  this  country.  This  is 
in  excess  of  our  ho  ne  production.  The 
demand  is  much  greater  than  the  supply  as 
is  shown  by  large  importations  from  Spain. 
Most  of  the  nuts  used  at  Battle  Creek,  we 
understand,  are  imported  from  Europe,  and 
we  have  millions  of  acres  adapted  to  the 
culture  which  can  be  had  for  $3.00  or  less 
per  acre  and  many  people  in  our  cities  are 
OHt  of  employment.  We  would  republish 
the  instructions  if  we  thought  it  would  pro- 
mote the  culture.  Let  us  hear  from  any 
who  desire  to  grow  peanuts. 


The /nfrr  (9«aM  says :  "The  haulm  or 
vine,  when  carefully  harvested,  before  it 
has  been  injured  by  frost,  is  an  excellent 
food  for  cattle  and  sheep.  Horses  are  ex- 
ceedingly fond  of  it.  but  the  amount  of  dirt 
which  necessarily  adheres  to  it  is  apt  to 
produce  a  disagreeable  cough.  The  red 
peanut  makes  better  hay  than  the  white, 
because  it  grows  erect,  and  is,  therefore, 
freer  from  dirt.  Usually  about  one  ton  is 
saved  per  acre,  though  upon  strong  land, 
where  the  vines  grow  luxuriantly,  two  or 
more  tons  have  been  saved.  Many  practi- 
cal farmers  prefer  this  hay  to  clover  hay." 
FRUIT  EVEN  IN  N.  ALASKA. 
Vegetarians  may  find  away  off  in  North- 
ern Alaska  something  in  their  line  of  edi- 
bles. Recent  explorers  of  the  region  of  the 
Noatak  river  saw  many  wild  berries  suita- 
ble for  food,  especially  currants.  These, 
properly  saved  and  put  up,  would  with 
yellow  comraeal  and  oatmeal  provision 
residents  or  sojourners  in  that  otherwise 
unattractive  country.  The  omnivorous 
bear  even,  relishes  berries.  The  stores  fur- 
nished by  nature  are  various  and  ample, 
tho'  far  apart. — R.  Hecker. 

BEET  CROPS  PROFITABLE. 
The  farmers  cau  obtain  as  much  profit 
from  twenty  acres  as  they  can  from  160 
acres  of  wheat  at  50  eta.  per  bushel.  At 
the  present  time  the  largest  factory  in  the 
world  with  its  own  refinery  is  now  being 
completed  at  Salinas,  Cal.  This  factory 
which  is  being  erected  by  Claus  Spreckles 
will,  with  its  warehouses  and  main  build- 
ings, cover  514  acres.  The  largest  build- 
ings will  be  580  t\.  in  length  and  106  H 
wide  and  six  stories  high.  It  has  a  crush 
ing  capacity  of  3,000  tons  daily. — L.  K.  C- 

173 


d  by  Google 


li»dilP!ii^l?ARflEta 


FROST    HELPS    TILLAGE 
F^:eezing    weather  approaching    it  may 

be  timely  to  state  the  experience  of  an   in 

dustrious  German  emigrant. 

He  had  owned  a  kitchen  garden  located 


three  improvers, 

two  helpers    in  his  house ;     in  summer  a 

number  of  women   fruit  picking.     For  each 

acre  of  land  he  paid  between  ;^2o  and  £yo 

year    for  labor.     A  large  grazing  fanner 


in  a  wintry    locality.     After  the    ground     near  him    paid  thirteen  shillings  a  year  an 
became   pretty  deeply   frozen,  he  drove  in     acre  for  labor,  and  failed  to  make  his  farm 


strong  hardwood  wedges  (iron  hooped 
the  top)  1 8  inches  or  more:  so  as  to  pry 
and  raise  heavy  cakes  or  lumps.  These 
he  stacked  like  muskets  or  let  the  surface 
lie  in  the  rough.  Snow,  ice,  later  cold 
rains  caused  said  cakes  to  break  up,  and 
thus  the  soil  was  mellowed,  and  fertilized 
by  the  atmosphere.  In  Spring  he  was  con- 
siderably ahead  of  other  cultivators.     The 

soil  was  just  leveled,  topdressed  and  ready  egg,)  retaining  its  color  even 
for  planting,  materially  earlier.  Grubs, 
caterpillars  &c.  also  weeds  had  been  de- 
stroyed by  the  cold,  physical  and  chemical 
action.  The  substratum  also  had  been 
acted  upon  beneficially.  Drought  thus 
cannot  injure,  and  taproots  reach  deeply. 
No  fingers  and  toes  thereon. 

In  southern  climes  these  compensating 
processes  are  not  practicable.  The  texture 
of  the  soil  there  may  not  be  so  positively 
affected.  The  condition  of  fineness  does 
not  there  obtain  to  the  same  degree  with 


pay.  Dietetic  reform,  which  the  sode^ 
exists  to  promote,  from  that  standpoint 
assumed  a  national  importance. — Albert 
Broadbent. 

FEIJOA  SELLOWIANA. 

This  is  a  plant  indigenous  in  L«  Plata, 
S.  A.'  Fruit:  oblong,  e^shaped  being  4 
to  6  centimeters  long  and  3  to  5  centime- 
ters wide,  (about  the  size  of  a  small  hen's 
its  ripest 
condition.  The  fruit  is  firm,  white  and 
sweet;  containing  much  juice  and  giving 
off  an  exceedingly  agreeable  and  pene 
trating  odor.  Flavor  similar  to  that  of 
the  pineapple.  It  is  reported  by  Andre' 
in  the  Revue  Horticoleas  a  new  fruit  tree. 
"INTENSIVE   AGRICULTURE." 

The  Manchester  City  News  reports  Al- 
bert Broadbent  as  saying  at  the  51st 
Anniversary  of  the  Vegetarian  Society: 
"Sir  William  Crookes  believed  it  was  still 
a  problem  how  to  transform  nitrogen  from 


soil  of  great  body ;    the  root  development     the  free   to  the   fixed  state,  but  Sir  Arthni 


not  so  much  facilitated,  because  the  seed 
bed  is  not  so  firiable  and  deep.  Soil  tem- 
perature is  an  essential  factor  in  the  pros- 
perity of  crops. — R.  Hecker. 

CULTURE  VS.  GRAZING. 
A  piece  of  land   used  for  growing  food- 
stuff,   employing  eleven   men,     if    trans- 


Cotton  thought  he  had  long  solved  it  by 
what  he  called '  intensive  agriculture.  By 
digging  up  the  good  soil  with  the  spade, 
turning  up  a  little  of  the  sub-soil  each  year, 
until  a  depth  of  three  feet  are  reached,  and 
heaping  the  soil  up  in  trenches  through  the 
winter,  the  nitrogen  was  fixed  in  the  soil, 


formed  into   a   grazing  farm  employs  only  and  good  crops  resulted.     By  Sir  Arthnr 

one.     Mr.    Samuel     Saunders,  of    Market  Cotton's  method  of  sowing  the   seeds  by 

Lavington,    provided    excellent     proof  of  hand  a  square  foot  apart  the  plant  grew  a 

this  assertion.     His  farm  was  fourteen  acres  stemof  straw  eight  ft.  high,  with  a  thousand 

in  extent,  but  every  bit  was     well    used,  grains  to  each  head.     An  acre  of  land  used 

and   perfectly  cultivated.     Upon   this  land  for  growing  beef  and  mutton  produced  only 

he   found  employment  all  the   year  round  halfapoundof  food  aday. 

174  December, 


DigiTizsdbyGoOgle 


APPLE  BLOSSOMS  IN  CLOVER. 

CHAPTER  II. 


LITTLE  Ivaline,  with  some  other  child- 
ren, was  invited  to  a  birthday  dinner. 
Nothing  whatever  was  said  to  her 
about  what  she  should  eat  or  decline. 
She  had  some  tiny  yellow  chickens  at  home, 
of  which  she  was  very  fond.  One  of  them  £he 
called  "Fluffy."  When  the  dinner  was 
served, she  was  helped  to  a  bountiful  plate  of 
chicken  pie.  On  hearing  what  it  was,  she 
seemed  startled  and  confused.  After  hes- 
itating for  a  few  moments,  and  making  a 
brave  effort  to  keep  hack  her  tears,  she 
decided  to  eat  nothing,  and  pushing  back 


wonderfully  changed  for  the  better  under  a 
rational  diet.  Robert  is  now  four  years  old 
and  is  an  unusually  original  and  lovable 
child.  On  one  occasion  he  had  heard  his 
father  and  mother  talking  of  Dr.  Tanner's 
fast.  The  next  day  he  announced  that  he 
did  not  care  for  any  dinner — "only  just  all 
the  water  I  want  to  drink."  He  resolved 
to  fast  and  proposed  to  do  it. 

At  anotlier  time  he  and  Terisita  were 
playing,  and  each  wished  to  teach  the  other 
gymnastics.  Robert,  who  is  generally  the 
dominant  spirit,  said,  "No,  Terisita,  I 
teach  you.  Now  !  hips  firm,  neck  firm," 
suiting  the  action  to  the  words  ;  "position, 
feet  place, ' '  repeating  the  same  when  Teri- 
sita demurred,  and  wished  to  be  teacher 
herself. 

Terisita  is  a  dear  little  native  child  from 
sunny  Mexico.  When  asked  by  Hattie, 
"What  makes  Robert's  hand  white  and 
yours  dark  ?"  she  answered,  "God  painted 
mine  brown." 

Cecil  gave  as  her  reason  for  not  eating 
meat,  that  God  did  not  give  it  to  Adam 
when  he  made  out  Adam's  bill  of  fare.  The 
children  all  delight  in  singing  a  Vegetarfan 
song  composed  by  a  member  of  the  &mily 
The  following  are  two  stanzas  : — 


Oka, 


H\-.\ 


hei  plate,  sat  in  silence  throughout  the 
meal.  On  the  way  home  she  confided  to 
her  mother  that  she  didn't  want  to  eat  any 
little  "Flufiies"  made  into  pie. 

Several  adopted  children  are  included  in 
tiis  physician's  family.  The  two  little 
boys,  Robert  and  Paul,  were  meat  eaters 
when  they  were  taken,  and  although  so 
very  young,  Robert  being  only  sixteen 
months  old,  they  were  extremely  irritable 
and  ill-tempered.      Their  dispositions  have 

1898 


Many  incidents  might  be  told  about  this 
one  family,  for  they  are  not  being  educated 
according  to  a  conventional  plan,  and 
have  every  opportunity  to  develop  individ- 
ual talents.  Among  other  enterprises  they 
conduct  a  complete  printing-office  and 
publish  a  paper  called  the  Cricket.  We 
quote  from  it  an   account  of  a  Vegetarian 

175 


d  by  Google 


^FOODHbllEv^^GARDENl 


dinner  prepared  by  the  girls.  The  account 
was  written,  edited  and  printed  by  the 
children,  who  also  arranged  the  menu  for 
the  dinner : 

How  SoMB  Vegetarian  Girls  Cooked  a 
Vegetarian  Dinner. 

"These  girls  were  brought  up  Vegeta- 
rians. There  were  five  of  them,  ranging 
from  thirteen  to  sixteen  years.  As  their 
parents  believe  in  an  all-round  education, 
they  had  been  given  instructions  in  the 
various  branches  of  house-keeping  as  well 
as  in  books.  They  had  long  taken  turns  at 
preparing  the  family  meals,  so  although 
their  mother  was  absent  from  home  and 
there  was  no  older  person  to  assist  them, 
when  it  was  desired  to  invite  some  friends 
to  dinner,  they  volunteered  to  undertake  its 
preparation  and  serving.  The  people  to  be 
entertained,  together  with  the  the  usual 
family,  numbered  nearly  fifty  persons.  The 
dinner  was  strictly  Vegetarian,  and  was 
prepared  wtthout  the  use  of  eggs,  milk, 
cream  or  butter.  They  tried  to  make  their 
bill  of  fare  one  that  would  contain  a  proper 
amount  of  all  the  food  elements." 

Eva  and  Ora  are  also  the  daughters  of  a 
physician,  in  fact,  of  two  physicians,  for 
both  father  and  mother  are  practitioners 
The  children  have  always  lived  on  a  strictly 
Vegetarian  diet.  Eva  is  twelve  years  old 
arid  Ora  ten,  and  each  weighs  about  ninety 
pounds.  Neither  has  ever  been  sick,  al- 
though Eva  has  had  the  mensles,  and  both 
were  supposed  to  have  had  the  whooping- 
cough  and  chicken-pox.  During  the  visit 
of  the  whooping-cough,  when  a  paroxysm 
came  on,  the  children  would  drop  their 
playthings,  sit  down  in  their  little  chairs, 
and  go  through  the  required  exercise  with 
all  patience  and  thoroughness,  then  they 
would  run  back  to  their  play. 

"A  strictly  Vegetarian  diet"  in  their  case 
means  dry  grains  and  hard  breads,  fruits 
and  nut  products.  They  never  eat  butter, 
eggs,  cream  or  milk,  condiments  or  stimu- 
lants. The  photograph  can  not  show  their 
rosy  cheeks,  but  it  does  express  the  happy, 
earnest  spirit  that  animates  their  minds. 
They  are  very  helpful  little  girls  at  home. 
To  be  concluded  i 
1898 


and  although  they  have  been  systematically 
studying  books  only  two  years,  they  easily 
keep  pace  with  other  children  of  their 
age. 

Mildred  is  the  daughter  of  a  business 
man,  and  has  not  always  been  a  Vegeta- 
rian. But  since  the  adoption  of  hygienic 
principles  by  her  parents,  several  years  ago, 
she  has  steadily  improved  in  health  and 
vigor.  Like  all  the  children  who  have 
learned  the  difference,  she  very  much  pre- 
fers a  Vegetarian  fare. 

The  young  girl  next  to  the  twins,  eight- 
een years  of  age,  is  a  stranger  to  the  writer, 
but  she  has  an  exceptional  record.  She 
has  never  tasted  meat  or  flesh  of  any  sort 
whatever,  nor  lard,  butter,  pepper  or  soda. 
She  has  eaten  very  little  white-bread,    salt. 


Thk  Twins 
corn-starch,  sugar,  extracts,  or  candy,  and 
no  spices,  tea,  berrj- -coffee,  vinegar  or  bak- 
ing-powder. She  has  never  taken  drugs, 
and  has  never  besti  sick.  Faces  speak 
louder  than  words  to  show  the  spiritual 
effect  of  a  pure  physical  life. 

Most  of  the  boys  and  girls  thus  far  men- 
tioned live  in  a  town  where  Vegetarianism 
is  popular,  but  Florence  lives  in  New  York 
State,  in  a  city  whereshe  never  hears  of  hy- 
giene outside  her  own  family.  Her  fatheris 
a  physician  and  both  her  parents  have  been 
Vegetarians  for  many  years. 


d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


h^4MiJecC  Ml  O-'n 


Specimen  of  nDrs.  Hutcbins'  pen  ©rawino. 

Receiving  a  card  with  the  above  executed  give  them  an  idea  of  the  fine  artistic  chat- 
in  very  fine  pen  drawing,  we  almost  dis-  acter  of  this  production.  It  tells  as  notbittf 
paired  of  being  able  to  reproduce  it  for  our  else  can,  of  the  steady  nerve  which  can  be 
readers,  such  was  the  delicate  character  of  preser\'ed  into  the  eighties  when  living  on 
the  work,  till  we  thought  of  our  friend  pure  unstimnlating  food  and  drink,  even  in 
Emil  Hensler,  and  knowing  the  interest  he  a  lady  who  has  done  her  full  share  in  con- 
takes  in  Vegetarian  propaganda  and  his  tributing  healthy  robust  children  to  the 
ability  as  an  engraver,  we  sent  him  the  card  population  of  her  country.  That  we,  in 
and  he  has  even  exceeded  our  expectations  our  seventies,  can  read  the  central  micro- 
in  producing  an  etching  with  the  beauty  of  scopic  writing  on  the  original  card  without 
the  original  wonderfully  preserved.  For  glasses  to  assist,  may  be  regarded  as  anotli« 
this  etching  we  feel  sure  all  our  readers  will  fact  in  evidence, 
thank   him,   as  in   no  other  way  could  we 


d  by  Google 


Vol..  Ill,  New  Skribs.  No.  24.  JANUARY,  1899.  Whole  Number  97. 

MR.  AND  MRS.  WARREN  HUTCHINS. 


THE  beautiful  specimen  of  pen-draw- 
ing, of  which  we  presents  fac-simile, 
was  sent  us  on  November  20,  1898, 
accompanied  by  a  letter  written  by  Mr. 
Warren  Hutchins,  from  which  we  learn 
that  Mr.  and  Mrs,  Hutchins  "have  lived 
since  1846  mostly  on  a  farinaceous,  fruit  and 
vegetable  diet,  and  are  truly  glad  that  the 
subject  is  coming  to  the  front  among 
thoughtful  people,"  as  they  learned  through 
a  copy  of  Food,  Home  and  Garden  sent 
them  at  the  instigation  of  Mr.  Rudolph 
Hecker,  of  this  city. 

This  venerable  conple  have  had  "a  fam- 
ily of  nine  children,  including  twins  and 
triplets.  Eight  of  them  grew  up  to  man- 
hood and  womanhood  ;  one  of  the  triplets 
died  at  the  age  of  18  days  through  the 
indescretion  of  the  nurse."  That  they 
"never  employed  a  doctor  for  their  whole 
family  of  children  more  than  three  or  four 
times."  Mrs.  Hutchins  began  teaching  in 
1834,  at  the  age  of  seventeen,  and  has 
taught  at  frequent  intervals  ever  since :  two 
years  in  Boston  in  1860-61-62 :  in  Buffalo  in 
1864-65  ;  was  a  drawing  teacher  four  years 
in  Cincinnati  schools  at  $800  a  year  until 
1876  at  $90  a  month.  In  all  this  long  per- 
iod up  to  to-day  she  never  lost  a  day  by 
sickness,  while  she  has  not  employed  a 
doctor  for  disease.  She  always  dressed 
loosely,  slept  in  pure  air,  was  always  hope- 
ful and  drove  out  in  all  kinds  of  weather. ' ' 

"Mrs.  Hutchins  uses  ordinary  spectacles 
in   doing    her    microscopic  writing.      She 
1899 


drew  a  prize  at  the  Crystal  Palace  in  New- 
York  in  1853,  and  at  the  Mechanics'  Fair 
in  Boston,  in  1862.  In  1856,  she  made  a 
beautiful  pen  picture  of  Fremont  and  drew  a 
premium  of  $6.00  at  a  State  Fair." 

"One.  of  the  triplets,  Adella,  is  a  teacher 
in  Detroit,  andAdelbert,  her  triplet  brother, 
is  a  skilful  electrician  anil  electrical  con- 
tractor" at  973  Thirteenth  Street,  Detroit, 
Mich.,  from  whence  Mr.  Warren  Hutchins 
dates  his  tetter,  in  which  he  also  favors  us 
with  the  following  particulars  in  regard 
to  himself. 

In  1870,  near  Cincinnati,  hi3  oldest  son 
broke  out  with  small  pox.  The  father  took 
care  of  him  till  he  recovered.  He  only  had 
a  doctor  to  see  hiin  once.  Four  years  after 
this  son  graduated  from  the  Cincinnati 
High  School  with  honors. 

Mr.  Hutchins  began  teaching  in  1838  and 
has  taught  in  six  states.  He  has  carried  on 
a  farm  in  Vermont,  in  New  York,  in  Mis- 
souri and  in  Michigan.  He  now  reads  and 
writes  without  spectacles  and  was  eighty- 
two  years  old  last  month  (December).  He 
writes:  "I  believe  that  science  will  ulti- 
mately triumph  over  bigotry  and  ignorance, 
and  that  the  great  law  of  evolution  will  yet 
be  understood  and  obeyed." 

In  1847  or  48,  Mrs.  Hutchins  visited 
Northampton,  Mass.,  from  Bethel,  Vt.,  and 
called  on  Dr.  Sylvester  Graham.  He  told 
her  how  to  make  Graham  Porridge  for  her 
children.  This,  with  other  hygienic  prac- 
tices, prevented  the   children  from   having 


d  by  Google 


*B^? 


siiuimer  complaint.  Wheu  it  became  pub- 
licly knowa  that  they  eschewed  flesh-meat 
and  bathed  their  children  regularly  and 
kept  them  on  a  simple  diet,  a  mob  came 
from  the  neighboring  hill  one  dark  Thanks- 
giving night,  pelted  their  barn  with  stones 
and  hooted  "pork,"  "cold  water,"  etc., 
which  they  considered  complimentary  in 
consideration  of  the  fact  that  Garrison  had, 
in  1835,  been  rushed  to  jail  by  the  Mayor  of 
Boston  to  save  him  from  the  fury  of '  'an 
intelligent  and  respectable  mob, ' '  and 
thereby  saved  his  life. 

The  next  snmmer,  four  or  five  of  these 
men,  a  gang  of  roughs,  came  to  cut  and 
bind  four  or  five  acres  of  very  stout  rye  on 
Mr.  Hutchin'sfann.  Mr.  Hutch  ins  worked 
with  them  and  "tuckered  out"  a  tall  six- 
footer  who  was  assisting  him  in  cradling 
the  grain,  the  others  doing  the  binding. 
The  six  footer  bej^ed  Mr.  Hutchins  to  stop 
so  as  to  give  him  a  chance  to  rest,  but  Mr. 
Hutchins  continued  cradling  and  finished 
the  job  in  five  hours,  from  one  to  six  o'clock 
p.  m.  He  never  heard  anything  more  of 
his  being  weak  from  living  on  Vegetarian 
food.  The  men  who  assisted  had  a  gallon 
of  New  England  rum  "to  strengthen  them 
and  keep  out  the  heat."  Mr.  Hutchins  has 
not  taken  a  glass  of  intoxicants  since  1837, 
and  never  used  tobacco  or  any  drink  but 
water. 

In  1885,  Mr.  Hutchins  was  knocked 
down  by  a  descending  elevator  at  Grand 
Rapids,  Mich.,  and  it  rested  on  hi»  back 
until  pried  up.  It  wi5  estimated  to  weigh 
1500  pounds.  He  believed  "ifhehadnot 
lived  a  temperate  life,  all  the  doctors 
in  Gr^nd  Rapids  could  not  have  saved  his 
life."  The  injury  to  the  spinal  cord  still 
affects  his  hands  and  feet  and  renders  his 
writing  so'newliat  dilicult  to  rea-1.  Other- 
Mr.  Hutchins  enjoys  excellent  health. 


THE  ANATOMY  OF  MAN. 
By  Prof.  Leo  Weiner,  of  Harvanl  Univ. 

Looking  at  Vegetarianism  in  the  light  of 
comparative  anatomy  it  is  self-evident  that 
man  was  designed  to  be  a  Vegetarian  and 
nothing  else.  Quadrupeds  are  divided  into 
classes  according  to  their  foods,  and  with  the 
single  exception  of  man,  no  animal  as  a  class 
has  ever  varied  from  the  design  of  nature. 

These  classes  are  the  carnivorous  or  flesh- 
eating,  the  fi^it-eating,  the  grass-eating  and 
the  omnivorous.  Each  of  these  classes  has 
distinctive  organs  adaptable  to  the  digestion 
of  the  kind  of  food  it  eats  and  to  no  other 
kinds. 

Man  has  artificially  become  an  omnivorous 
animal  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  anatomically 
he  is  a  fruit-eating  animal.  It  is  an  amusing 
and  significant  fact  that  the  only  typical 
omnivorous  animal  is  the  pig.  Man  is  try- 
ing hard  to  be  a  pig. 

The  carnivorous  animals  all  have  very 
short  intestines,  adapted  only  to  the  digestion 
of  meat.  They  have  only  one  stomach  and 
could  not  digest  grass  as  the  cow  does. 
Their  teeth  are  all  long  and  sharp,  so  that 
they  can  tear  meat,  but  they  have  no  flat- 
topped  teeth  to  grind  vegetable  foods  as 
man  has. 

It  has  been  said  that  the  so-called  "ca- 
nine' '  teeth  of  man  are  like  those  of  the  car- 
nivorous animal,  and  that  this  is  an  indica- 
tion that  man  in  an  omnivorous  animal. 
This  is  not  correct.  These  are  not  canine 
teeth,  strictly  speaking.  To  be  sure,  they 
are  somewhat  pointed,  but  they  are  flat  also 
— flat  and  pointed,  and  not  round  and 
pointed,  like  those  of  the  carnivorous  ani- 
mals. 

The  grass-eating  animals  have  sevoal 
stomachs — from  two  to  five — and  ver>'  long 
intestines,  especially  adapted  to  the  diges- 
tion of  grass.  They  have  also  flat-topped 
teeth  for  grinding. 

The  fruit-eating  animals  are  the  only  ones 
that  resemble  man.  They  have  only  one 
stomach  and  a  medium  length  alimentary 
canal,  halfway  between  that  af  the  carnivor- 
ous and  the  grass-eating  classes.  The  near- 
est animal  to  man  is  the  monkey  and  tlie 
ape.     They  are  fruit-eaters. 

No  meat-eating  animal  in  the  world  has 

January. 


d  by  Google 


»:HOMEv!S^GARD|i| 


the  horizontal  movement  of  the  lower  jaw  in 
eating  as  man  has.  This  is  proof  positive 
that  man  is  not  a  meat-eater,  according  to 
the  design  of  nature.  These  arguments  on 
the  physical  side  of  the  question  prove 
primarily  that  man  is  not  physically  adapted 
to  the  eating  of  meat. 

Prom  an  economic  standpoint  it  can  easily 
be  seen  that  man  must  sooner  or  later  be- 
come a  Vegetarian,  This  is  merely  a  ques- 
tioti  of  time  and  a  matter  of  room.  The 
increase  of  civilization  and  of  population 
gradnally  must  do  away  with  cattle- raising 
because  of  the  absolute  demand  for  land  for 
cultivation.  In  time,  the  demand  for  room 
will  kill  the  industry  entirely. 

When  we  eat  meat  we  are  eating  the 
product  of  the  earth  at  second-hand.  The 
vegetation  has  been  eaten  by  the  animal, 
and  a  large  part  of  it  converted  into  bone 
and  tendon  and  wasted,  and  we  eat  only 
what  is  left  and  made  into  flesh. 

To  reduce  the  economic  problem  to  fig- 
ures: One  acre  of  land  which  would  furnish 
enough  flesh  to  support  one  man  would  fur- 
nish enough  grain  to  support  ten  men. 
Thus  you  see  when  the  increased  population 
causes  an  increased  demand  for  food  and  for 
land  on  which  to  raise  foods,  it  will  become 
necessary  to  raise  that  which  is  the  most 
economic,  in  other  words,  that  which  will 
produce  the  most  per  acre. 

The  hygienic  argument  you  can  obtain 
from  any  reputable  physician,  who  will  telt 
you  that  meat-eating  is  heating  to  the  blood, 
that  it  is  especially  a  stimulant  rather  than 
a  food,  and  that  there  is  great  danger  of  the 
transmission  of  various  serious  diseases 
from  animal  to  man. 

Meat-eating  in  the  ideal  stage  is  bad 
enough.  If  the  animals  that  we  eat  were  in 
all  the  health  with  which  nature  endows 
them,  roaming  wild  and  free  over  the  open 
fields,  with  plenty  of  exereise,  and  permitted 
to  choose  of  their  own  free  will  from  the 
best  of  the  various  vegetable  growths  for 
their  food,  that  would  be  one  thing.  But 
as  civilization  has  advanced,  cattle  are 
raised  for  the  sole  purpose  of  slaughter. 
They  get  little  or  no  exercise. 

Any  veterinary  surgeon  will  tell  you  that 
animals  kept  without  exercise  will  contract 

1899 


and  propagate  various  diseases  which  are 
practically  unknown  to  them  in  their  wild 
state.  They  are  artificially  fetted.  and  this 
kind  of  fat  is  not  the  sort  of  material  which 
we  should  put  into  our  bodies. 

But  it  is  the  appalling  character  of  the 
disease  in  meat  which  frightens  us.  Tuber- 
culosis, one  of  the  most  common  and  fatal 
of  diseases  among  cattle,  causes  great  de- 
struction of  human  life  by  consumption.  A 
recent  alarming  spread  of  leprosy  in  Nor- 
way, Hawaii,  and  the  other  fish  eating 
countries  is  traced  directly  by  scientists  to 
the  eating  offish.  In  this  case,  to  be  sure, 
it  is  thought  that  the  eating  of  the  fish  raw, 
instead  of  cooked,  is  what  brings  on  leprosy, 
but  the  simple  fact  that  the  germs  are  there 
at  all  is  sufficient. 


CO  OPERATIVE  COLONIZATION. 

Mr.  Dey  M.  Hough  sends  us  documents 
explaining  his  plan  for  colonizing  the  cheap 
lands  of  Southern  States.  It  is  on  a  co-op- 
erative basis.  The  proposal  is  to  make 
day's  labor  the  source  of  credit  to  each 
member,  and  all  service  is  to  be  reckoned 
by  the  time  occupied  in  rendering  it.  A 
man  whose  time  is  worth  $10  a  day  gets  no 
more  credit  than  one  whose  time  is  worth 
fifty  cents  a  day.  But  all  are  to  share 
alike  in  home  comforts,  etc.  All  the  land 
is  to  be  held  by  trustees  and  not  to  be  sold 
except  by  vote  of  four-fifths  of  the  shares, 
giving  a  small  minority  the  veto  power. 
No  co-operator  is  to  engage  in  occupation 
of  personal  profit,  all  his  working  time  to 
be  given  to  the  Association.  But  the  pros- 
pectus promises  that  for  58  hours  a  week 
labor  a  co-operator  will,  in  two  years,  earn 
more  comforts,  luxuries  and  pleasures  than 
are  ordinarily  obtained  from  $50  a  tveek  in 
a  city.  This  seems  incredible,  but  the  ad- 
vantages of  co-operation,  when  harmonious, 
are  great.  Those  who  desire  information 
should  address  Dey  M.  Hough,  P.  O. 
Box    13,  Philadelphia. 


d  by  Google 


ffSoD 


v^"^  GARDEN 


CO-OPERATIVE  BROTHERHOOD. 

The  Co-operative  Brotherhood  are  start- 
ing their  first  colony  here  right  beside  our 
borne  and  there  are  some  very  progressive 
people  among  them.  One  Vegetarian  al- 
ready. Later  on  a  Vegetarian  Club  might 
be  formed  in  the  Colony,  t  shall  send  you 
a  paper  with  prospectus  of  the  Co-operative 
Brotherhood.  It  is  a  brave  eflbrt  to  benefit 
humanity  in  a  material  way,  but  in  order  to 
be  successful  there  must  be  a  spiritual  bond 
and  I  hope  that  good  teachers  will  be  here, 
for  sonls  need  food  as  well  as  bodies.  There 
are  splendid  forces  gathering,  and  I  hope 
for  great  good  to  follow. — Very  sincerely 
yours.  Harriet  C.  Stein,  Olalla,  Wash. 


CHRISTIAN  COMMONWEALTH,  GA. 
Our  esteemed  friend  Jacob  M.  Troth, 
President  of  the  Virginia  Peace  Society, 
has.  by  following  what  he  believes  to  be  the 
lading  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  left  Virginia  and 
settled  at  Commonwealth,  Ga.,  in  a  com- 
munity in  which  he  appears  to  have  found 
congenial  friends  and  employment.  The 
friends  he  regards  as  the  most  devoted 
Christians  it  has  ever  been  his  privilege  to 
work  with.  He  writes:  "We  are  Vegeta- 
rians from  necessity,  as  our  food  costs  only 
three  cents  each  per  day.  Meal  is  excluded 
almost  altogether."  They  publish  the 
Social  Gospel  in  the  office  of  which  Brother 
Troth  finds  his  sphere  of  activity.  He  is  do- 
ing effective  work  for  that  publication. 
Within  its  two  years  the  Christian  Com- 
monwealtli  have  built  seven  dwellings,  a 
blacksmith  shop,  a  large  bam  and  stable,  a 
school  house,  a  large  dining  hall,  a  saw- 
mill, a  printing  and  publishing  house ;  and 
a  cotton  mill  is  being  rapidly  constructed. 
The  community  already  consists  of  85  per- 
sons, whose  Vegetarian  ratious  cost  only 
S2.5oper<ky!  The  first  ofthe  Ten  Com- 
mandments  is  embodied  in  their  constitu- 


tion. The  North  Shore  Suburban,  Chicago,  " 
publishes  a  full  account  of  the  Christian 
Commonwealth,  illustrated  with  views  and 
portraits.  They  appear  to  hold  to  the 
doctrine  of  the  early  Christian  Church  to 
"hold  all  things  in  common,"  love  being 
the  golden  cord  that  binds  them  together. 
G.  H.  Gibson,  thepresident,  writes :  "Jfost 
of  those  who  come  to  us  bring  little  or 
nothing.  So  to  keep  open  doors  for  the 
poor  and  to  make  our  means  go  as  far  as 
possible,  we  have  lived  for  the  most  part  on 
com  bread,  cow  peas,  sweet  potatoes  and 
vegetkbles  of  our  own  raising."  We  con- 
sider this  very  good  living  and  is  very  much 
as  we  live,  except  that  we  have  some 
Graham  bread  as  well,  and  then  again  we 
do  not  get  the  cow  peas,  but  would  like  to. 


THE  NORTHWEST  COLONY. 
Owing  to  the  well-known  ability,  integ- 
rity and  energy  of  the  President  of  the 
Northwest  Vegetarian  Colony,  Rev.  Mrs. 
H.  S.  Lake,  a  tract  of  land  has  already 
been  donated,  on  the  conditions  that  a  group 
shall  be  located  in  one  ofthe  most  desirable 
parts  ofthe  State  of  Washington.  Other 
donations  of  money,  material  and  machinery 
are  now  in  order.  Who  will  contribute  a 
type-writer,  to  aid  in  lessening  present 
labor  ?  All  persons  who  send  fifty  cents 
will  be  entitled  to  a  year's  subscription  to 
Food,  Home  and  Garden,  in  which  a 
monthly  report  of  progress  will  be  made  by 
the  B.  L.  C.  Address ;  Secretarj'  Better 
Life  Consociation,  L.  Box  502.  Olympia, 
Wash. 


THE  MOVEMENT  IN  IRELAND. 

J.  S.  Herron,  the  Hon.  Secretary  of  the 
Irish  Vegetarian  Union,  writes  from  Belfast : 
"The  movement  in  Ireland  is  spreading — 
the  public  will  not  become  out-and-ont 
Vegetarians,  but  they  frequent  our  restau- 
Jannarjr. 


d  by  Google 


rants,  and  they  know  that  they  can  live 
without  flesh-meat  if  they  choose  to  do  so. 
But  the  custom  is  very  hard  to  break  away 
from — we  have  far  more  opposition  and 
difficulties  thrown  in  our  way  than  the 
abstainers  from  alcohol  now  have.  But  we 
must  persevere  and  try  and  gain  over  the 
more  intelligent  and  intellectual  class.  Un- 
fortunately they  won't  see  that  flesh-eating 
is  the  cause  of  drunkeness  and  other  social 
evils,  and  they  shut  their  eyes  fast  and  put 
their  fingers  in  their  eats  when  we  tell  them 
of  the  great  evils  of  flesh-eating.  But 
Vegetarianism  in  the  United  Kingdom  may 
not  really  flourish  until  it  is  unlawful  for 
people  to  kill  animals  and  eat  their  flesh, 
but  that  time  will  come." 


DEATH  OF  GARCIA 
The  correlation  of  inner  and  outer  tem- 
perature is,  to  my  mind,  again  illustrated 
by  the  unexpected  demise  of  the  Cuban 
veteran -patriot,  Calixto  Garcia.  His  trans- 
lation to  an  unaccustomed  climate,  altho' 
not  far  north,  unprepared  by  hygienic  meas- 
ures which  in  this  instance  were  probably 
not  thought  of  at  all,  or  ignored,  together 
with  the  vicissitudes  of  the  past  three  years, 
rendered  him  an  easy  prey  to  the  very 
variable  winter  weather  of  the  North  At- 
lantic coast.  Banqueting,  late  hours,  etc., 
helped  Yet,  hygienic  diet  and  other 
toward  personal  habits  would  have  ensured 
increasing  immunity,  and  preserved  a  val- 
uable lite  at  a  critical  juncture  to  liberate 
Cuba.  It  depended  upon  the  interchangea- 
ble temperature,  assisted  by  similar  mental 
operations. — R.  Hecker. 


RAISINS  FOR  REFRESHMENT. 
A  well-known  physician  states  that 
when  he  is  fagged  out  by  professional 
work  he  recruits  his  strength  by  eating 
rabins  and  not  by  using  stimulants. — Phil- 
adelphia Record. 
1899 


BECAUSE  A  BIRD  SANG. 


■  birdu 


lifrom 


itkj 


\  dark  life  wu  brlsMenn],  ■  fal 
For  ltu«tful  and  K\«d  wen  Ihe  tonn  of  lh«l  »on«[. 
He  HUB  tin  he  qulckcDAl  1  hope  thit  via  dead 
By  ilojtlng  Ihat  (ong  on  ihe  roof  of  the  »bed. 

■TwH  only  lome  beautiful  thlnt  f  bad  dreamed. 
11  quickened  and  Uarted  and  wakened  ouce  vton 
And  filled  with  the  viiloui  thai  charmed  me  of  yore 
So  gladaome  the  tone  and  the  wordathal  beaald 
(That  bird  Id  hli  aoag  OD  the  roof  of  the  ihed). 
He  tang  and  he  warbled  "Ob,  lODglng  heart  wail 
Thoughdlmi*  the  fUlnrc.ret  kindly  table. 
BeUere  it  and  ttuM  It,  ob,  mortal,  to  be 
Replete  with  the  dearen  of  treanire*  for  the*;" 
so  hope  ba«  ariaen  and  doubting  bai  fled 
Becauaeof  thataong  from  the  roof  of  the  ihed. 

— Bllda  Muiihead  Id  Ladiif  Hamt  Jotmal 
THE   PROBABLE  SBQUBL. 
fiecauie  thia  bird  aane  a  rich  bleaalDt;  waa  glwn 
That  ralMd  good  Hilda  to  the  brltfblneia  of  heaTen. 
Bui  there  came  from  a  neighboring  lummer  reaort 
A  Divine  with  a  gun  "to  enjoy  a  day'a  sport "" 
He  filed  at  the  bird  ihal  uHvatlon  had  bronffbt 
To  the  heart  ofa  friend  and  IhouKhtU  "good  apon.' 
l*hal  bird  can  no  more  sing  on  the  roof  of  the  Khed, 
lU  tweet rolcela  DOW  huahed:  Ibe  poor  bird  1*  dead. 


SATISFYING  THE  MORAL  SENSE. 
Bv  J.  O.  Stair,  M.  D. 
There  is  harmony  in  nature.  The  diet 
which  is  best  for  the  physical  is  also  best 
for  the  moral  nature  of  man.  The  shedding 
of  blood  and  the  taking  of  life  are  opposed 
by  the  moral  sense  of  man.  This  is  not  a 
contention  among  teachers  and  authors  on 
moral  philosophy.  So  in  science  and 
nature  there  is  no  demonstnited  feet  that 
demands  the  use  of  flesh-meats  for  the  best 
development  of  the  physical  natiue  of  man. 
The  luscious  fruit,  the  sweet  grains  and 
the  savory  vegetables  and  nuts  in  their 
various  combinations  and  modes  of  prep- 
aration provide  ample  material  for  a  feast 
for  not  only  the  elect  of  the  land,  but  for 
all. 


To  one  out-and-out  convert,  the  Vegeta- 
rian advocate  makes  a  hundred  sympathizers 
who  eat  less  meat  than  formerly. — John 
Naylor,  Loudon,  England. 


PilKG» 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


Km 

.    HUNRV  S 

CLUBB,  Editor. 

OiK^  Sum 

Hpll 

n,  50 

-U-,fo 

rSnbKrlptloas   ii.™ 

■  y*8r. 

'iontt'-oo 

line,    one    iatertloa,     10 
Pot  nHoM   f/Hiertion 
0.    mriNVC, 'iuJ(lc,Ci5. 

iiS 

With  Moore  at  Chicago  University  and 
Weiner  at  Harvard,  Vegetarian  philosophy 
should  take  a  strong  hold  ta  both  those 
seats  of  learning. 

The  article  by  Professor  Weiner  was  pub- 
lished in  the  New  \ot^  Journal  and  also  is 
used  in  the  January  issue  of  Our  Postscript, 
which  will  be  ready  about  January  lo. 

The  Board  of  Aldermen,  Boston,  Mass., 
have  been  asked  by  Charles  Weiss  for  a 
license  to  carry  on  the  business  of  slaughter- 
ing horses  for  the  year  ending  April  30, 
1900.  The  product  is  to  be  packed  in  bar- 
rels for  export.  It  is  expected  to  slaughter 
1 20  horses  a  day. 


Nothing  can  be  more  certain  than  that 
the  exportation  of  nitrogenized  products 
does  not  exhaust  the  fertility  of  a  country ; 
inasmuch  as  it  is  not  the  soil  but  the  atmos- 
phere which  furnishes  its  vegetation  with 
nitrogen. — ^Justus  Liebig,  M.  D.,  Ph.  D., 
F.  R.S. 


A  Gospel  Mission  has  been  opened  by  the 
Seventh  Day  Adventists  at  210  North  Sec- 
ond street,  Philadelphia,  where  both  body 
and  soul  are  fed  and  nourished.  Vegetarian 
meals  are  served  at  one  cent  a  course.  This 
could  hardly  be  done  with  flesh-meat  as  a 
basis.  Brother  A.  F.  Caldwell  is  described 
by  our  correspondent.  Dr.  de  Learsy,  as  "a 
godly  and  able  man  superintending  the 
kitchen,  anda  scientific  Vegetarian  cook." 


Newton  M.  Mann  in  his  discourse  on 
kindness  to  animals,  claims  there  is  no 
word  in  our  language  to  express  it.  There 
may  not  be  one  in  the  old  dictionaries,  but 
surely  "Zoophily"  will  be  included  in  all 
the  new  editions,  as  it  has  been  for  some 
years  used  by  humanitarians. 


The  recent  act  of  Parliament  permitting 
those  who  conscientiously  object  to  Vac- 
cination to  preserve  their  children  from  the 
virus  is  a  triumph  gained  by  the  Anti- Vac- 
cination Society,  of  England,  of  which  Mr. 
Wm.Tebb  was  for  many  years  the  president. 
To  him  the  credit  of  the  victory  is  chiefly 
due. 


More  of  our  prominent  army  and  navy 
officers  die  from  the  generous  hospitality  of 
Washington  and  other  American  cities  than 
from  the  hardships  incidental  to  war.  Gen- 
eral Sheridan  said  there  was  less  risk  to  life 
on  the  plains'  fighting  Indians  than  in  eating 
dinners  in  Washington,  and  his  own  exper- 
ience proved  it. 


Would  some  one  please  express  his  opin- 
ion through  the  medium  of  Food,  Home 
AND  Garden,  as  to  whether  vegetables  are 
liable  to  be  infected  with  microbes  and 
disease- germs  otherwise  than  can  be  detected 
by  the  senses — the  sight,  smell  and  taste — 
as  is  the  case  with  flesh-meat? — ^John  Huls- 
man,  Lopez,  San  Juan  Co.,  Wash. 


The  Ang-to-Saxon  is  the  name  of  a  $1.00 
magazine  devoted  to  the  identity  of  the 
Anglo-Saxon  race  with  the  house  of  Israel. 
Edited  by  George  E.  Ingils.  6627  Washing- 
ton avenue,  Chicago.  We  do  not  know 
that  either  the  Anglo-Saxon  or  the  House  of 
Israel  will  be  complimented  by  the  recog- 
nition. Both  races  have  been  guilty  of  acts 
of  which  neitlier  should  be  proud. 

January, 


DigiTi; 


d  by  Google 


THE  SIX  DAY'S  BICYCLE  RACE. 


ANOTHER     ATHLETIC     VICTORY.        FLESH- 
EATERS   IN   THE    REAR   AND 

BADLY  BEATEN. 
Charles  W.  Miller,  of  Chicago,  who  won 
the  fiist  prize  at  the  six  days'  bicycle  race  at 
Madison  Square  Garden,  New  York,  in 
December,  1897,  has  won  the  first  prize  at 
the  same  place  in  1898.  The  score  at  the 
end  of  the  race  on  December  10,  1898,  was : 
Miller  2007  miles,  while  Waller,  his  closest 
competitor,  scored  1985  miles.  In  our 
nnmber  for  June,  1898,  we  published  from 
the  New  York  Journal  a  list  of  the  food 
consumed  by  Miller  during  the  week  of  the 
contest.  It  consisted  of  boiled  rice,  oat- 
meal, barley,  milk,  sterilized  and  diluted 
with  lime-water,  koumiss  and  coffee,  varied 
on  the  third  day  with  apples,  and  on  the 
sixth  day  with  oranges.  In  reply  to  an 
inquiry  addressed  him  by  Mr.  Howe,  Mr. 
Miller  wrote  as  follows : 

"Dear  Sir:  In  answer  to  yottts  of  the 
1 6th,  would  say  that  my  diet  consisted  of 
ONLV  oatmeal,  boiled  rice,  rice  pudding, 
custard,  koumiss,  grapes  on  last  day,  milk, 
coffee,  apples  and  oranges.  No  meat  what- 
ever, at  any  time.  I  never  use  meat  in  my 
races.     No  butter  and  no  cheese  were  used. 

Yours  resp'y,  C.  W.  Miller. 
Mr.  Miller  was  evidently  not  seriously 
fatigued,  as  on  the  last  day  of  the  contest  he 
took  one  hour  off  the  track,  during  which 
time  he  was  married  to  Miss  Hanson,  also 
of  Chicago,  and  then  resumed  the  contest 
on  the  wheel,  which  continued  until  10 
o'clock  P.  M.  At  II  o'clock  Saturday 
morning,  it  was  announced,  amid  much 
applause,  that  Miller  had  beaten  his  own 
record  of  a  year  ago  by  three  miles,  and 
after  this  he  settled  down  to  a  methodical 
gait,  and  in  two  hours  the  substantial  dis- 
tance of  eighteen  miles  assured  him  of 
1899 


victory  over  all  his  nearest  competitors. 
We  understand  Mr.  Miller's  earnings  were 
^000  and  a  good  Chicago  wife.  Thousands 
of  spectators  witnessed  the  .contest  and  the 
management  reaped  a  handsome  profit. 

EATING  "EMBALMED  BEEF." 
General  Miles,  in  testifying  before  the 
Commission  of  Inquiry,  characterized  the 
327  tons  of  refrigerator  beef  sent  to  the 
army  in  Puerto  Rico  as  "embalmed,"  and 
said  the  198.000  pounds  of  canned  beef  had 
been  condemned  by  the  officers  whose  com- 
mands used  it.  That  the  beef  was  sent  as 
food  and  the  men  had  to  eat  it  or  go  hungry . 
He  suggested  it  was  sent  as  an  experiment. 
That  the  chemicals  used  in  treating  the 
beef  were  responsible  for  the  sickness  of  the 
army.  The  reports  that  he  received  con- 
cerning it  were  that  this  beef  had  the  odor 
like  that  of  an  '  'embalmed  dead  body. ' ' 


"WHEN  DOCTORS  DISAGREE." 
The  proverbial  disagreement  of  doctors 
and  professors  is  illustrated  at  Harvard 
University.  Professor  Weiner  presents  a 
logical  paper  on  comparative  anatomy  (see 
page  4),  showing  that  man  by  nature  is  a 
fruit-eating  animal,  while  Professor  G.  W. 
Pitze,  lecturing  at  the  same  University, 
declares  the  world  to  be  absolutely  depend- 
ent on  the  flesh  of  animals,  forgetting  that 
the  flesh  of  animals  fs  all  derived  from  the 
vegetable  kingdom.  The  difference  between 
these  two  learned  men  is  no  doubt  caused 
by  their  personal  habits.  We  venture  to 
predict  that  if  Prof.  Fitze  were  to  dine  a 
few  months  as  Professor  Weiner  does,  he 
would  soon  see  the  error  of  his  present 
position.  The  only  thing  for  plain  men  to 
do  when  doctors  disagree  is  to  use  common 
sense. 


Dr.  E.  G.  Smith  has  published   a  paper 
edition  of  The  Fat  0/  ike  Land  for  50  cents. 


d  by  Google 


HOHE^GAfRDEWi 


A  BANANA   DIET  FOR  TYPHOID. 

Dr.   Ussery    of  St.    Louis,   regards  the 

banana  as  the  best  food  for  typhoid  patients. 

It  is  easily  digested  and  very  strengthening. 


THE  V.  S.  MILL  IN  WASHINGTON. 
The  Vegetarian  Society  Mills  yon  shipped 
to  Mr.  Haglnnd  and  myself  came  safely  and 
we  are  very  much  pleased  with  them.  I 
hope  our  mill  will  sell  some  more.  There 
was  a  Mend  looking  at  it  to-day  and  he  says 
our  mill  is  a  much  better  mill  than  his.  I 
think  it  will  do  all  that  is  claimed  for  it  and 
more  and  I  thank  you  very  much  for  send- 
ing such  a  good  one. — Mrs.  Harriet  C. 
Stein.  Olalla,  Wash.,  Nov.  19,  1898.— The 
mill  sent  was  our  number  z,  the  price  of 
which  is  $5.00. 

MEDICAL  JOURNALS  &  ATHLETICS. 
The  Medical  Record  (New  York)  is  one 
of  the  few  medical  journals  that  have  the 
fairness  to  publish  the  facts  of  the  Vegeta- 
rian victory  in  the  severe  test  given  by  the 
70  miles  walk,  wherein  it  states  the  distance 
covered  at  15  German  (70  English)  miles 
which  were  walked  by  Mr.  Mann  in  14^ 
hours  and  both  the  winner  of  the  prize  and 
five  other  vegetarians  performed  the  feat 
without  unusual  fotigue,  while  of  the  eleven 
non-vegetarians  only  one  reached  the  goal 
at  all  and  in  bad  form  and  far  behind  the 
vegetarians. 

CHEAP  BOARDING  HOUSES. 
The  World's  Advance  Thought  justly 
commends  the  work  of  Lawrence  J.  Fry  in 
establishing  a  house  in  Portland,  Oregon, 
in  which  five  cent  meals  and  clean  beds  are 
provided  for  working  men.  Although  run- 
ning several  years  it  has  produced  no  in- 
come, but  has  been  kept  up  by  pluck  and 
hard  work  and  has  furnished  a  comfortable 
home  for  many  a  penniless  man  out  of  em- 
ployment,  and  saved   many  from  min  and 


despair.  Mr.  Fry  is  described  as  a  kind- 
hearted  vegetarian,  so,  of  course,  his  honse 
is  a  Vegetarian  Boarding  House  on  an  eco- 
nomical scale.  He  is  also  stated  to  be 
quiet  and  modest.  Has  saved  Portland 
much  expense,  and  aided  materially  in 
keeping  the  peace.  He  has  never  turned 
a  hungry  and  friendless  man  from  his  door, 
being  filled  with  pity  for  suffering  in  all  its 
forms.  We  have  oflen  believed  that  cheap 
boarding  houses  mightbe  established  in  our 
large  cities  on  this  plan  or  perhaps  making 
a  little  higher  charge,  sufficient  to  meet 
actual  expenses.  A  ten  cent  fare  would 
perhaps  cover  cost,  if  landlords  would  allow 
some  of  their  unoccupied  houses  for  this 
purpose  at  a  moderate  rent. 

HUNTING   WITHOUT   KILLING. 

The  Scientific  American  in  reviewing 
Blanchan's  book  on  "  Birds  that  Hunt  and 
are  Hunted"  expresses  the  humane  hope 
of  the  author  and  editor  of  the  book  that 
sporismen  may  leant  to  hunt  more  and  more 
each  year  without  guns ;  for  all  true  sports- 
men are  lovers  of  nature.  The  thnehas 
come  when  the  camera  may  and  should,  to 
a  great  extent,  take  the  place  of  the  gnn. 
Several  enthusiasts  have  demonstrated  that 
beautiful  pictures  of  wild  birds  may  be  made 
without  taking  their  lives. 

HELPING  HAND  MISSION. 
One  of  the  charitable  institutions  connect- 
ed with  the  Seventh  Day  Adventist  Church 
is  a  helping  Hand  Mission  at  Walla  Walla, 
Wash.  It  is  a  restaurant  and  hotel  at 
which  the  charges  are  chiefly  one  cent  per 
course  as  shown  by  the  following : 

MBNU. 

SoDp One  Cent  Bmd... OncCent. 

Potatoci  or  Beuu ...... ......One  cent. 

Fruit .One  Cent. 

-  le  Cent. 

per  cot Fin  Centa. 


Cereal  Coffee.... 


It  is  a  Vegetarian  House  and  should  be 
imitated  in  every  city  in  America. 


Digitized  byGoOgle 


MENU  FOR    DAY  IN   JANUARY. 


Graham  Gems.  Caramel  Cereal. 

PolalD  Salad. 

Peanut  Saudvlclia.  Baked    Applea 

DINNER. 


Sltwed  Onion*. 


Oatmeal  Wafera. 


eted  a 


German  Warer  Pudding, 
Coffee. 

MRS.    RORER'S   LECTURES. 

At  the  recent  Food  Exhibit  held  in  this 
city  Mrs.  Rorer,  as  usual,  lectured  on  the 
subject  of  Cookery.  Her  lectures  were 
well  attended  and  instructive.  Although 
Mrs.  Rorer  is  not  a  practical  Vegetarian 
herself  she  is  somewhat  favorable  to  the 
subject  and  many  of  her  recipes  will  be 
found  highly  satisfactory  to  Vegetarians, 
especially  those  of  us  who  have  not  dis- 
carded animal  substances,  milk  and  eggs. 
The  following  are  a  few  recipes  and  hints 
gleaned  from  reports  of  Mrs.  Rorer's  lect- 
ures and  demonstrations : 
RECIPES. 

Soft  Oatmeal  Bread. — Take  i  pt.  of 
oatmeal  that  has  been  left  over  from  break- 
fast ;  stir  into  it  '4  pt.  of  scalded  milk ; 
when  hot  add  !^  cup  of  yellow  commeal. 
When  partly  cool  add  hastily  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs;  then  stir  in  the  well  beaten 
whites.  Cover  the  bottom  of  the  baking 
pan  with  chopped  dates;  pour  over  the 
bread  and  bake  in  a  quick  oA'en  thirty  min- 
utes. It  should  be  broken  with  a  fork  and 
taken  out  with  a  spoon. 

Mush  Gems. — Stir  |^   of  a  cup  of  corn- 
meal   into    a  pint  of  hi.,    milk;  cook  until 
1899 


smooth.  Take  from  the  fire ;  add  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  then  the  well  beaten 
whites.  Bake  in  greased  gem  pans  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty  minutes. 

German  Wafer  Pudding. — Beat  slightly 
3  eggs,  add  i  cup  of  milk.  Put  i  cnp  of 
flour  in  another  bowl  and  add  the  liquid 
portion  gradually,  beating  until  smooth. 
Stir,  strain,  and  having  put  into  greased 
moulds  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Baked  Bananas. — Strip  the  skiiis  from  a 
dozen  good  ripe  bananas ;  sprinkle  over 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  add  %  cup 
of  water  ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes, 
basting  frequently.  Serve  with  cream 
sauce. 

* 

Do  not  fry  bread  in  butter  unless  you 
expect  divine  help  in  digesting.  Olive  oil 
is  best,  and  put  it  in  the  pan  before  the  pan 
is  on  the  stove. 

* 

Sugar  is  responsible  for  any  number  of 
ills;  and  "ten  pounds  is  enough  for  one 
family  for  a  year." 

*    * 

From    /ahlf  Tal». 

Pure'e  of  Chestnuts. — Remove  the  shells 
from  sufficient  large  chestnuts  to  measure 
I  pint  after  shelling ;  cover  with  boiling 
water,  let  stand  for  five  minutes  and  slip 
oflf  the  skins.  Boil  in  sufficient  salted  wa- 
ter to  cover  until  tender,  drain  and  press 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Gradually  dilute 
with  one  pint  of  thin  white  sauce  (one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  '2  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  and  one  pint  of  milk),  season  to  tsste, 
add  ^  of  a  cupful  of  hot  cream  and  serve. 
Pure'e  of  carrot,  onion  and  other  vegetables 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 


d  by  Google 


NO  BREAKFAST  PLAN. 
We  are  living  on  the  no  breakfast  plan, 
and  had  our  dinner  before  12.  What  free- 
dom it  gives  us  every  day,  especially  when 
we  are  going  on  an  excursion  by  the  stage. 
How  strong  and  well  we  feel !  M .  G . 
DISGUISED  DISHES. 
The  sister  who  is  most  active  in  our  cul- 
inary department  sometimes  brings  her  wits 
to  play  in  inventing  a  new  dish.  One 
evening  we  were  invited  to  partake  of  some 
very  tempting  looking  fritters.  Upon 
questioning  her  as  to  what  kind  they  were, 
we  were  met  by  a  Sphinx-like  air  of  mys- 
tery !  We  tried  guessing  even  while  par- 
taking of  them.  "Com  meal?"  "No?" 
"Flour?"  "No,  only  enough  to  make  it 
stick,"  I  tried  to  be  fun^jy  and  guessed, 
"  Com  cobs  !"  as  the  most  economical  form 
of  fritters  I  could  possibly  think  of.  But 
all  our  conjectures  failed,  even  when  the 
good  sized  dish  was  emptied. 

Afterwards  I  said,  "  Now,  as  I  have  en- 
joyed the  unknown  I  think  I  ought  to  have 
the  privilege  of  knowing  what  it  is."  Then 
the  Sphinx  opened  her  mouth  and  an- 
swered, "  Squash  !"  They  had  tasteil 
more  like  flannel  cakes  than  fritters,  but  as 
the  latter  can  be  made  out  of  almost  any- 
thing (it  seems)  while  the  former  presup- 
poses meal  of  some  kind,  the  name  an- 
nounced was  not  really  a  misnomer. 

Another  evening  we  had  at  our  table  a 
lady  visitor  who  calmly  partook  of  squash, 
cooked  and  served  like  egg-plant,  not  know- 
ing the  difference,  until  we  afterwards 
amused  ourselves  by  enlightening  her ;  for 
some  of  the  other  members  of  the  family 
had  been  initiated  into  this  mystery  by  the 
Sphinx  some  time  before. 

We  have  had  lettuce  leaves  cooked  and 
served  like  spinage,  as  my  sister  has  her 
own  vegetable  garden,  she  finds  it  conve- 
nient to  utilize  the  occasional   over-supply 


of  some  one  vegetable,  by  varying  its  mode 
of  preparation. — Mary  Graham. 
PENOLA. 
A  postal  postmarked  "  Summerland, 
Cal.,  Nov.  23,  1898"  contains  the  follow- 
ing: "  Do  Vegetarians  know  the  value  of 
Penola  as  a  food  and  a  drink  ?  It  is  an 
easily  made  Indian  food,  no  one  will  com- 
plain of  its  price,  and  as  for  its  benefits,  the 
Indian  message-runner  of  fast  time  could 
run  some  days  without  food  other  than 
what  he  found  in  his  penola-bag  and  a  little 
maple  sugar  to  sweeten  it  with.  This 
maize  was  well  parched,  and  ground  into  a 
fine  meal  which  he  stirred  into  the  water  for 
drink,  coming  to  a  spring,  or,  on  feeling 
hungry,  made  it  thick  enough  to  eat  as  a 
thin  mnsh.  Many  white  people  have  found 
the  virtue  of  penola  and  are  never  without 
it.  An  aged  man  here  says  there  is  noth- 
ing sets  so  well  on  his  weak  stomach. 
Since  I  have  learned  of  it  I  have  some  of  it 
daily,  finding  it  agreeable  in  taste  and 
effect.  The  corn  should  be  well  browned 
to  prevent  a  raw  taste.  I  use  it  in  cold  or 
warm  water,  but  the  water  should  not  be 
hot  enough  to  scald  the  meal.  I  like  it, 
too,  with  warm  tea,  and  sometimes  make 
a  meal  of  it  in  that  way,  craving  nothing 
more  except  an  apple.  Try  it. — A  Stran- 
ger." 

We  have  just  risen  from  a  meal  in  which 
firesh  parched  com  meal  formed  a  very  sat- 
isfying portion.  Four  teaspoonfiils  soaked 
a  few  minutes  in  milk  with  a  little  sugar 
was  a  sut>stantJal  dish  and  seemed  to  make 
other  food  unnecessary.  We  had  parched 
the  com  the  night  before  in  the  oven  and 
its  odor  while  grinding  it  in  the  V.  S.  Mill 
was  delightful.  The  com  we  used  was  the 
white  dent.  We  will  send  a  sample  of 
Penola  by  mail  post  paid  for  10  one  cent 
stamps,  to  show  what  can  be  done  with  the 
V.  S.  MiU. 


January. 

d  by  Google 


f 


DEN 


A  BEAUTIFUL  FRUIT  RANCH. 
On  the  iSth  day  of  July  we  were  out  to 
Mr.  H.  Wallerstein's  ranch.  We  went 
seven  miles  in  the  sta^  to  Indian  Orchard. 
There  we  got  some  delicious  oranges  and 
good  apples  and  Mrs.  Wallerstein  met  us. 
Then  I  rode  with  Mr.  Wallerstein  in  his 
buggy  and  Mr.  Gregorson  walked  and 
opened  the  five  gates.  We  went  on  our 
winding  way  slowly,  up  and  down  and 
around  the  rocky  steep  points,  and  crossed 
the  stream  a  number  of  times.  Mr.  Waller- 
stein has  olive  trees  growing  on  two  of  the 
steep  hill-sides  :  and  one  steeper  hill-side  he 
has  terraced  ready  for  the  trellises  and 
grape-vines,  which  are  growing  in  the 
nursery  until  rains  come,  so  he  can  set  them 
out.  He  has  a  picturesque  walk  up  to  the 
first  water-fall.  Then  we  crossed  the 
stream  many  times  on  the  large  stepping- 
stones.  There  are  great  rocks  in  the  stream 
fringed  near  the  water-edge  with  maiden- 
hair and  other  ferns.  There  are  beautiful 
plants  growing  along  the  winding  stream. 
There  is  one  great  boulder  as  large  as  a 
house,  supported  by  other  great  pointed 
rocks,  up  a  little  above  the  ground  in  some 
places.  But  when  we  arrive  at  the  water- 
fall !  That  is  the  best  of  all !  A  pretty 
pool  of  water  surrounded  with  many  shades 
of  green,  so  rich,  so  beautiful.  When  the 
rains  come  there  must  be  a  wide  sheet  of 
water  pouring  over.  Now  there  are  two 
streams,  one  on  either  side.  It  is  a  lovely 
place  shaded  with  a  variety  of  beautiful 
trees,  and  we  are  shut  in  on  every  side,  and 
look  DP  to  see  the  lovely  deep  blue  of  the 
sky  ;  and  the  refreshing  breeze  is  blowing ! 
It  is  a  delightful  place  to  go  camping  On 
our  return  walk   we  cut  some  branches  of 

1899 


the  fragrant  bay  leaves.  We  passed  the 
Cathedral  Oaks  on  our  way  to  Mr.  Waller- 
stein's. Some  of  them  have  been  cut  down 
since  we  passeil  two  years  ago  and  others 
have  been  planted  in  their  places.  Some  of 
the  grand  tall  and  wide-spreading  trees  are 
still  leit.  On  our  return,  Mr.  Wallerstein 
brought  us  as  &r  as  Goleta,  where  we  took 
the  stage  at  4  o'clock  P.  M.,  and  returned 
to  our  home  in  Santa  Barbara. — Mary 
Gregorson.  ' 


THE  BEST  SOIL  FOR  PEANUTS. 

The  best  soil  for  peanuts  is  a  light  col- 
ored, clayey  soil,  filled  with  finely  com- 
minuted, cherty,  angular  gravel,  which 
makes  the  ground  loose  and  prevents  it 
from  baking.  The  ground  should  be  well 
drained  and  light  in  color,  for  it  is  a 
singular  fact  that  there  ts  a  correlation 
between  the  color  of  the  soil  and  the  color 
of  the  nut,  black  or  deep-red  soils  making  a 
dark-colored  nut,  and  light  or  whitish  soils 
a  light-colored  nut.  The  darker  soils  may 
and  most  frequently  do  make  a  larger  yield 
per  acre,  but  the  nuts  are  not  so  marketable 
and  are  classed  in  a  lower  grade. 

Land  with  much  humus  is  not  suited 
to  the  growth  of  peanuts.  The  soil 
should  be  strong,  but  with  a  small  amount 
of  vegetable  matter  in  its  composition. 
Peanuts,  therefore,  do  not  yield  well  after 
clover  nor  in  fr-eshly  cleared  lands.  In 
such  conditions  the  amount  of  vine  is 
excessive,  but  the  quantity  of  good  pea- 
nuts is  very  small.  The  best  results  are 
obtained  by  planting  the  crops  after  com 
or  tobacco  or  potatoes,  or  after  any  crop 
that  requires  clean  cultivation. — Southern 
Magazine. 


d  by  Google 


|r«ioM'i»i?iNti^ 


THE  MINER  SUBSOILER. 

The  Miner  lifting  subsoiler  deserves 
notice,  altho'  the  metal  parts  are  only  cast 
iron.  It  was  devised  by  Colonel  Miner,  of 
Tennessee,  and  offers  the  advantage  that 
men  but  4J4  feet  up  to  6  feet  4  inches  may 
operate  it  in  a  variety  of  soil,  barring,  of 
course,  very  heavy  land.  The  handles  can 
be  raised  or  lowered  to  suit  the  height  of  the 
person,  who  consequently  walks  erect,  is 
not  subject  to  lameness  of  the  back  and  can 
deliberately  guide  the  plow.  I  had  one  for 
two  horses  in  Vineland  and  liked  it  much. 
— R.  H. 

FINE  FRUIT  IN  TENNESSEE. 

You  can,  if  disposed,  safely  say  a  good 
word  relative  to  very  desirable  firuit  in  Ten- 
nessee. Mr.  Doolittle  probably  has  not 
been  to  Campbell  and  Johnson  Counties. 
These  are  stated  in  an  official  report  by  the 
Commissioner  of  Agriculture,  to  produce 
exceptionally  finely  flavored  apples.  Those 
of  Campbell  County  he  styles  fruit  of  unsur- 
passed size  and  excellence.  Those  of  John- 
son County  are  described  as  being  of  great 
size,  beauty  of  appearance  and  fine  flavor. 
These  counties  are  in  East  Tennessee, 
Scott  County,  East  Tennessee,  has  a  re- 
markably salubrious  climate.  Sequatchie 
County  has  a  soil  of  exceptional  fertility, 
and  Unicoi  County,  East  Tennessee,  a  new 
county,  offers  to  tourists  et  alias  with  an 
eye  for  fine  scenery,  one  of  the  most  charm- 
ingly beautiful  sections  of  a  favored  ter- 
ritory. Tennessee,  no  doubt,  not  only 
rivals,  but  surpasses  North  Carolina  as  re- 
gards largeand  small  fruit. — R,  H. 

"THE  PLOW  WITH  A  HDMP." 

Onpagei69you  advocated  the  produc- 
tion of  a  long-pointed  plow  with  an  effect- 
ive hump  for  the  lifting  of  frozen  soil. 
Prominent  makers  of  implements  have  been 
memorialized  with  a  view  of  devising  one 
on  lines  riicommeaded  by  the  late  John 
14 


Wilkinson.  He  suggested:  (1)  but  one 
handle;  (2)  a  reversible  beam;  (3)  the 
whole  implement  to  be  of  good  iron  and 
steel,  save  the  handle  ;  (4)  the  enlargement 
of  the  area  affected  by  the  breaking  gear, 
implying  a  broader  and  more  convex  hump 
of  prime  quality  and  material,  difiering 
therein  from  existing  shapes,  such  as  the 
Miner,  the  Mapes,  the  Rogers,  etc.;  (5)  the 
use  of  the  lifter  when  the  substratum  is  not 
damp  and  sticky,  but  comes  off  freely,  nor 
in  soil  and  in  seasons  when  the  fields 
operated  upon  become  soggy.  But  4  to  6 
inches  deep  is  mere  scratching.  If  the 
frost  is  to  benefit  land,  18  inches  or  more 
should  be  attempted,  with  a  steady,  strong 
team  walking  at  an  even,  deliberate  pace. 
A  crowbar  or  pick  may  be  required  at  the 
starting  point  to  enable  the  plow  to  fairly 
enter. 

The  makers  addressed,  albeit  given  good 
reasons  for  a  modification  of  gear  declined, 
doubting  it  would  pay.  More  the  pity,  for 
farming  and  gardening  are  essential  to 
prosperity. — R.  Hecker. 

We  suggested  4  to  6  inches  as  the  depth 
for  frozen  ground  to  be  plowed  and  in  con- 
sideration for  the  animals  doing  the  pulling. 
Ground  frozen  i8  inches  deep  would  require 
steam  power  to  break  up  and  a  very  strong 
plow.  When  not  frozen  it  can  be  stirred 
deeper  with  a  subsoiler. 
FRUIT  EVERY  DAY  IN  THE  YEAR. 

It  is  possible  for  a  farmer  to  have  fresh 
fiTiit  of  his  own  every  day  in  the  year. 
Beginning  with  strawberries  in  May  and 
before  they  are  all  gone  raspberries  will  con- 
tinue about  five  weeks.  Cherries  will  begin 
during  the  raspberry  season,  blackberries, 
currants  and  gooseberries  follow.  As  these 
go,  the  early  peaches,  apples,  pears  and 
plums  come.  During  .August,  September 
and  October  he  can  have  a  great  variety  of 
fruit.  Until  the  next  June  he  will  have  to 
confiue  himself  in  the  main,  to  apples. — 
Tribune. 

January. 


d  by  Google 


[FOOBHOMEv^GARDENJ 

Some  Ibcaltb  floveltfes. 


IMPROVED    BATH    CABINET. 

THE  PAST  YEAR  has  been  prolific  in 
inventions  affecting  the  question  of  Health, 
some  of  which  we  may  here  note.  The 
Quaker  Vapor  Bath  Cabinet,  which  we  have 
been  recommending  for  its  high  character 
as  to  the  quality  of  the  rubber  material  used 
and  the  convenience  with  which  it  may  be 
packed  and  carried,  has  been  further  im- 
proved as  shown  in  the  accompanying  en- 
graving, by  a  side  opening  to  facilitate 
entering  and  exit.  This  will  add  much  to 
the  popularity  of  the  Quaker 
Vapor  Bath.  During  the  ep- 
I  demic  of  La  Grippe  lately  ex- 
I  perienced  in  Philadelphia,  this 
j  Vapor  Bath  proved  of  inesti- 
I  mable  value.  One  young  lady 
I  we  know  who  was  severely 
I  attacked,  was  given  the  bath 
1  on  going  to  bed  and  nothing 
was  heard  of  her  until  the 
next  morning,  when  she  was  up  bright  and 
early,  and  went  to  her  usual  occupation  as 
if  she  had  never  had  La  Grippe  at  all. 

FRUIT   AND   VEGETABLE   CHOPPER. 

Another  useful  invention  that  has  lately 
come  into  our  list  of  selling  articles  is  the 
Universal  Chopper.  We  have  tested  it  for 
all  kinds  of  vegetables  requiring  to  be 
chopped  for  soups 
or  to  be  eaten  un- 
cooked, and  find 
it  exceedingly  use- 
ful. Even  Horse 
Radish  is  reduced 
under  its  opera- 
tion. And  cocoa- 
nut,  the  only  nut 
that  refuses  to  sub- 
^mit  to  the  Vegeta- 
rian Society  Mill, 
succumbs  to  the 
Universal  Chopper 
and  becomes  a  valuable  acquisition  to  the 
Vegetarian  Cook  who  does  not  care  to 
employ  the  common  grater  at  the  risk  of 
her  knuckles,  when  requiring  fresh  grated 
cocoanut.   Whatever  will  assist  in  reducing 

1899 


such  substances  quickly  to  the  requirements 
of  the  kitchen  is  a  real  boon  and  helps  to 
make  us  independent  of  goods  that  are  often 
adulterated  when  packed  in  cans  or  boxes. 
A  chopper  in  the  honse  and  we  know  what 
we  are  eating  because  it  is  prepared  from 
the  original  articles. 

WESTRUP'S    HYGIENIC    INSOLE. 

Another  article  of  great  utility  is  a  new 
Hygienic  Insole,  invented  by  our  Vegeta- 
rian friend,  Mr.  Westrup.  We  have  been 
trying  these  insoles  and  found  them  exceed- 
ingly comfortable,  especially  in  the  damp 
wintery  weather  we  have  been  having  dur- 
ing December,  1898.  They  are  made  of  a 
non-conducting  inorganic  substance,  render- 
ing them  cooler  in  summer  and  warmer  in 
winter  than  the  leather  sole,  and  being 
quite  thin  and  light,  they  can  be  used  in 
shoes  that  fit  pretty  well  without  insoles. 
They  absorb  the  moisture  from  the  foot  and 
can  be  replaced  with  new  ones  as  often  as 
desired,  thus  contributing  to  health  as  well 
as  comfort.  Send  size  of  shoe  worn  and 
six  cents  in  stamps  and  they  will  be  sent  by 
mail  to  your  own  address. 

SAMPLES    BY  MAIL. 

We  are  endeavoring  to  obtain  pound  rates 
for  all  the  goods  and  foods  we  supply  by 
express.  But  in  the  meantime,  we  will 
send  samples  by  mail  of  articles  made  by 
the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  as  follows : 

I  CT.  STAMPS 

4  ounces  Whole-wheat  Graham  flour,  10 
4       "       Pure  Peanut  Butter,  10 

4       ' '       Penola  (Parched  Com),  ro 

4       "       any  kind  pulverized 

nuts  in  stock  1 2 
Also  samples  of  articles  cut  by  the  Univer- 
sal Chopper  at  the  same  rates. 

NUTCOA  BY  MAIL. 
During  cool  weather  we  will  send  a  three- 
pound  can  of  Nutcoa  by  mail  on  receipt  of 
one  dollar,  to  any  part  of  the  United  States 
or  Canada.  Order  now  to  secure  this  as  it 
is  not  safe  to  send  by  mail  in  hot  weather. 
This  is  cheaper  than  by  express,  where  the 
distance  makes  expressage  come  over  50  cts. 


vCSogle 


THE  FATTED  CALF. 

The  lesson  was  from  the  prodigal  son, 
and  the  teacher  was  dwelling  on  the  charac- 
ter of  the  elder  brother.  ' '  Eat  amid  all 
the  rejoicing,"  he  said,  "  there  was  one  to 
whom  this  preparation  of  the  feast  brought 
no  joy,  to  whom  the  prodigal's  rettim  gave 
no  pleasure,  but  only  bitterness ;  one  who 
did.  not  approve  of  the  feast  being  held,  and 
who  had  no  wish  to  attend  it.  Now,  can 
any  of  you  tell  me  who  this  was?"  There 
wag  a  breathless  silence,  followed  by  a 
vigorous  cracking  of  thumbs,  and  then  from 
a  dozen. sympathetic  little  geniuses  came 
the  chorus :  ' '  Please,  sir,  it  was  the  fatted 
calf ! ' ' — Aberdeen  Journal. 

EATING   TOADIES. 

We  are  glad  that  we  adopted  the  vegeta- 
rian living  as  soon  as  we  did  especially  on 
account  of  thcchildren.  They  know  noth- 
ing of  eating  flesh  meat,  and  one  day  one  of 
them  asked  me  in  regard  to  having  heard 
that  One  of  the  boys  near  went  fishing.  He 
asked  what  he  caught  the  fish  for,  and  so  I 
explained  to  them  that  some  people  ate 
them,  and  that  too  some  killed  the  cows  and 
the  pigs  and  ate  them  too,  but  that  we 
didn't  think  it  right  to.  That  immediately 
started  a  new  train  of  thought  and  the  old- 
est one  says:  "And  do  they  eat  toadies 
(meaning  toads)  too?"  The  second  one 
piped  up  in  his  shrill  voice  :  ' '  And  ponies 
too?"  They  think  so  much  of  the  animals 
about  here,  A  family  of  gray  squirrels 
live  very  near  us  and  we  frequently  see  them 
from  the  window,  and  partridges  too.  I 
think  our  life  here  the  very  best  for  the 
little  ones.  Now  here  in  the  winter  the 
trees  shelter  us  enough  that  it  does  not  seem 
as  rough  as  outside  and  they  go  out  of  doors 


to  play  every  day  that  it  does  not  storm. — 
Mrs.  L.  G.  Hamilton,  Millington,  Mass. 
A  CRUEL  FASHION. 

Have  any  of  you  ever  thought  of  the 
cruelty  involved  in  the  wearing  of  plumes 
or  tips  on  your  hats  ?  It  is  said  that  the 
wings  are  actually  torn  from  their  bodies 
while  they  are  alive,  in  order  that  the 
brightness  of  the  plumage  may  be  pre- 
served !  The  Universalisl  Leader,  in  an 
editorial  on  this  subject  says : 

' '  If  the  members  of  the  gentler  sex  could 
witness  a  thousanth  part  of  the  slaughter 
that  takes  place  every  month,  that  their 
patronage  not  only  gives  consent  unto  but 
commands,  their  awakened  sensibilities 
would  cry  a  halt,  at  least  so  far  as  they  are 
personally  responsible.  One  plume  on  one 
hat  may  not  impress  as  an  evidence  of 
cruelty,  but  one  plume  each  on  10,000,000 
hats  is  Armenia  and  Cuba  combined  in  the 
feathered  kingdom."  The  editor  of  the 
above  papercalls  the  ladies  "criminally  ob- 
tuse" in  persisting  in  this  fashionable 
custom  ! 

I  hope  that  the  ' '  gentler  sex ' '  among  the 
Apple  Blossoms  will  have  their  hats 
trimmed  with  artificial  flowers  and  ribbons, 
instead  of  plumes,  feathers  or  tips.  No 
Vegetarian  should  be  guilty  of  any  sncb 
unnecessary  cruelty. — Walter  S.  Weller. 

We  suppose  that  all  our  Apple  Blos- 
soms have  a  bicycle  or  expect  to  have  one. 
They  will  be  glad  to  know  that  Mr.  Miller, 
the  champion  bicycler  of  the  world  who  has 
showed  the  most  surprising  endurance  and 
who  has  won  the  prize  at  both  New  York 
and  San  Francisco  six  day  bicycle  contest 
has  won  his  great  victories  without  eating 
the  flesh  of  any  animal. 


.,G 


March, 
OOgll 


MISS  ELLEN  SXOW. 

See  Page  S5. 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


REV.  SAMUEL  F.  DIKE.  D.  D. 


db,  Google 


Vol.  Ill,  Nbw  Seribs,  No.  27.     .  APRIL,  1899.  Whole  Number  100- 

REV.  SAMUEL  F.  DIKE,  D.  D. 


THROUGH  the  courtesy  of  Rev.  Chas. 
H.  Mann,  editor  of  the  New  Church 
Messenger,  we  are  enabled  to  present 
an  excellent  portrait  of  oar  esteemed  brother 
and  friend  of  humanity.  Rev.  Samuel  F. 
Dike,  D.  D.,  whose  departure  from  the 
active  scenes  of  this  life  was  recorded  in  our 
uomber  for  February,  iSqg,  page  25.  We 
are  enabled  to  add  to  what  was  then  pnb- 
■ished  some  more  interesting  particulars 
from  the  Messenger's  account : 

"After  his  ordination  in  Philadelphia,  at 
the  age  of  25,  he  married  Miriam  Worcester, 
of  Boston,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Thomas 
Worcester.  They  were  married  53  years, 
Mrs.  Dike  having  died  about  four  years  ago. 
Since  bis  wife's  dealh  he  has  not  taken  as 
much  interest  in  life.  He  very  much  missed 
the  companion  of  his  life,  and  said  not  long 
ago  to  a  Mend,  'I  shall  not  be  sorry  to  go, 
1  wish  it  were  to-morrow,' 

"June  13,  1840,  Dr.  Dikearrivedin  Bath, 
where  he  has  since  been  a  prominent  and 
highly  respected  citizen.  It  is  not  unusual 
to  find  men  who  have  been  actively  engaged 
in  the  ministry  for  fifty  years,  but  it  is  very 
seldom  that  one  of  these  can  point  to  that 
period  as  spent  in  a  single  parish. 

"The  Chnrch  society,  for  the  love  they 
bore  their  pastor,  in  1879  sent  him  on  a  trip 
^  ^Sypt  aad  Palestine.  It  was  then  quite 
an  event  and  upon  his  return  to  Bath  he 
was  greeted  with  large  congregations  to 
hear  about  his  travels  in  the  Holy  Land. 

1899 


He  gave  several  very  interesting  Iccttu:es  on 
his  travels.  He  was  appointed  a  member  of 
the  Peace  Congress  held  in  London  in  1890, 
but  was  unable  to  attend. 

"Dr.  Dike  had  a  fine  residence  on  Lin- 
coln street,  Bath,  with  spacious  grounds. 
He  took  great  pride  in  the  appearance  of 
his  grounds  and  in  his  garden .  He  loved 
his  home,  everjrthing  around  it  was  very 
dear  to  him.  The  very  trees  he  planted  he 
loved  and  took  great  pride  in. 

"A  few  years  ago  Dr.  Dike  thought  of 
selling  his  place,  and  one  of  the  first  would- 
be  purchasers  of  the  property  asked  how 
much  hay  it  would  cut.  It  thorooghly  dis- 
gusted him  to  think  how  mnch  he  had  loved 
even  every  tree  on  the  place  and  it  was  so 
dear  to  him,  and  that  others  could  only 
look  at  it  in  the  light  of  profit  as  a  hay  farm . 

"The  reverend  doctor  had  been  a  Vegeta- 
rian for  a  number  of  years. 

"The  funeral  services  took  place  at  the 
house  of  Mr.  J.  H.  Kimball,  of  Bath,  on 
Wednesday,  January  i  r ,  and  were  conducted 
by  the  Rev.  B.  N.  Stone,  who  had  for  so 
many  years  been  associated  with  Dr.  Dike 
in  the  work  of  the  Maine  Association.  Mr. 
Stone  was  assisted  by  the  Rev.  Samuel 
Worcester,  of  Portland." 

From  the  discourse  delivered  on  the  oc- 
casion by  Rev.  B.  N.  Stone,  we  extract  the 
following : 

"Under  his  thoughtful  preaching  and 
gentle  pastoral  care,  aided  by  the   feithful 


,  dbvGcft^glc 


iiiiWlilE^ 


helpfulness  of  the  devoted  wife  and  compan- 
ion of  his  life,  he  had  the  satisfaction  of 
seeing  this  Church  grow  and  floarish  and 
of  gathering  into  its  fold  a  generation  of 
noble  and  excellent  men  and  women,  of 
which  it  gives  us  a  touch  of  sadness  to-day 
to  think  that  he  was  almost  the  sole  survivor; 
but  their  memory  is  still  held  in  honor  in 
this  city  and  warmly  cherished  by  you  of 
the  younger  generation  of  the  Church.  To 
you  who  from  childhood  were  nurtured 
under  the  pulpit  ministrations  of  this  man  of 
God,  and  in  whose  social  life  and  the  joys 
and  sorrows  of  the  home  he  was  a  privileged 
guest,  no  other  minister,  however  good  and 
worthy,  can  ever  be  quite  the  same ;  you 
mourn  to-day  the  departure  of  your  spiritual 
father.  The  presence  on  this  occasion  of 
others  without  your  own  household  of 
&ith  witnesses  to  the  esteem  which  the 
moral  purity,  integrity,  and  intelligence  of 
the  man  have  won  from  all  the  religious 
people  and  the  citizens  of  the  community. 
The  flags  now  at  half-mast  on  the  school- 
buildings  also  testify  to  the  value  of  his  ed- 
ucational worlc,  when  the  schools  of  the 
city  for  more  than  twenty  years  were  under 
his  superintending  care — work  not  per- 
functory and  mercenary,  but  inspired  by 
hearty  devotion  to  the  intellectual  and 
moral  welfare  of  theschool  children,  in  each 
of  whom  he  took  a  personal  interest,  being 
able  to  call  almost  every  boy  and  girl  of 
them  by  name. 

"But  outside  his  local  parish  in  his  State 
and  in  the  Church  at  large,  Dr.  Dike  also 
did  good  service  by  pen  and  voice  and 
official  labors.  As  the  General  Pastor  and 
the  first  and  the  only  President  of  the  Maine 
Association,  till  the  infirmities  of  age 
caused  him  to  retire  to  the  quiet  rest  of 
private  life,  he  guided  its  affairs  with  good 
practical  wisdom  and  performed  the  duties 
of  his  office  with  tmassuming  fidelity,  alto- 

52 


gether  free  from  any  spirit  of  priestly  domin- 
ion. His  judgment  and  counsels  also  car- 
ried weight  in  the  deliberations  of  the  Gen- 
eral Convention  of  our  national  ecclesiastical 
body.  "  And  his  name  was  known  with  re 
spect  in  the  Church  across  the  water.  He 
had  a  scholarly  miud,  was  a  great  lover  of 
books,  and  especially  enjoyed  historical 
research  and  visits  to  oriental  lands  in  quest 
of  their  ancient  religious  and  literary  lore. 
And  combined  with  his  higher  intellectnal 
gif^  was  much  good  common  sense  and  a 
keen  interest  in  all  practical  affairs,  .so  that 
he  could  say  with  the  old  Romans:  "Noth- 
ing human  is  foreign  to  me."  Hence 
while  he  was  at  home  in  conversation  with 
attizaus  and  fanners,  the  educational  instita- 
tions  and  historical  societies  of  our  State  and 
elsewhere  were  gla<l  to  honor  and  make  nse 
of  his  scholarly  abilities  and  ample  stores  of 
learning.  Were  his  associates  in  our  Theo- 
logical School  at  Cambridge  present  here  I 
am  sure  they  would  express  their  apprecia- 
tion of  the  value  of  his  work,  as  the  Pro- 
fessor for  some  years  in  the  department  oi 
Ecclesiastical  History.  ^  a  writer  he  was 
not  voluminous,  but  whatever  came  from 
his  pen  bears  the  impress  of  clear,  carefiil. 
intelligent  thought  and  a  well-informed 
memory.  But  his  intellectual  osefiilness  is 
not  to  be  parted  from  the  moral  excellence 
of  his  character.  Spiritual  truth  was  lo 
him  above  all  other  knowledge." 


A  VEGETARIAN  VAN. 
The  Vegetarian  Society,  England,  has  a 
van  from  which  Vegetarian  literature  is  dis- 
tributed and  which  forms  a  suitable  platform 
for  speakers  so  that  meetings  can  be  held  in 
the  open  air  wherever  the  van  is  located. 
Such  a  van  is  required  in  this  country-  We 
can  obtain  good  speakers  for  such  an  enter- 
prise. Who  will  start  the  fund  for  this  p^^ 
pose  with  a  good  donation  ? 


u„GoA§ft 


DISEASED  CATTLE  UAWiNiiJU, 

BOW  THB  LOMPY  JAWED  AHO  TDBERCUI.03IS 
CATTLE  AKB  PASSBD  BV  INSPBCTOK9  AND 
UKBD  FOR  CANNING.  HOW  "BEBF  EX- 
TRACTS" ABB  MADS  OP  DISEASBD  CAR- 
CASSES 

Spaiat  DispaUk  to  the  Dtmocral  aHd  CkniticU. 

New  York,  March  3. — This  is  the  story 
ofThomas  F,  Dolan,  dnly  sworn  to  before 
a  notary  public.  The  story  comes  direct 
from  the  pen  of  a  man  who  for  ten  years  was 
saperintendent  of  the  killing  gang  of  500 
men,  in  the  cattle  beds  of  Philip  D.  Armonr. 

"I  am  an  American  citizen,  39  years  of 
age,  and  a  resident  of  Allston,  Mass. 

'  'Somewhere  in  the  neighborhood  of  1890, 
after  Jeremiah  Rosk  was  appointed  Secre- 
Ury  of  Agriculture,  the  Bureau  of  Animal 
Industry  was  established.  The  object  was 
to  inspect  all  packing  houses  and  their 
products  in  the  United  States.  The  duty  of 
inspectors  was  to  inspect  the  slaughter- 
house output  before  and  after  killings  oc- 
cpxred.  Bat  there  were  many  ways  of  get- 
ting aronnil  the  inspectors — so  many,  in 
fact,  that  not  more  than  two  or  three  cattle 
out  of  one  thousand  were  condemned.  I 
know  exactly  what  I  am  writing  of  in  this 
connection,  as  my  particular  instructions 
from  W.  E.  Pierce,  superintendent  of  the 
beef  houses  for  Armour  &  Co.,  were  very 
explicit  and  definite. 

"Whenever  a  beef  got  past  the  yard  in- 
spectors with  a  case  of  lumpy  jaw  and 
came  into  the  slaughterhouse  or  the  'kill- 
ing bed,'  I  was  authorized  by  Mr.  Pierce  to 
take  his  head  off.  thus  removing  the  evidence 
of  lumpy  jaw,  and  after  casting  the  smitten 
portion  into  the  tank  where  refuse  goes,  to 
send  the  rest  of  the  carcass  on  its  way  to 
market. 

"In  cases  where  tuberculosis  became 
evident  to  the.  men  who  were  skinning  the 
cattle,  it  was  their  duty,  on  instructions 
from    Mr.  Pierce,    communicated  to   them 


tbrongh  me,  at  once  to  remove  the  tubercles 
and  cast  them  into  a  trap  door  provided  for 
that  purpose.  The  order  went  out  to  dis- 
pose of  all  evidences  of  disei^e  whenever 
these  evidences  manifested  themselves  to  the 
naked  eye.  I  have  seen  handreds  and 
thousands  of  cattle  pass  inspection  that 
should  have  been  consigned  to  the  destroy- 
ing tanks.  I  have  witnessed  men  tearing 
off  with  their  naked  hands  large  tubercles 
growing  along  the  ribs,  intestines,  lungs 
and  vital  parts  of  the  slaughtered  steers. 

"I  have  seen  as  much  as  forty  pounds  of 
flesh  afflicted  with  gangarenecut  from  the 
carcass  of  a  beef  in  order  that  the  rest  of  the 
animal  might  be  utilized  in  trade.  It  was 
at  that  time  and  is  still  regarded  as  wasteful 
to  discard  any  portion  of  a  steer  that  can 
possibly  be  used. 

"A  packinghouse  has  less  regard  for  the. 
public  health  than  any  other  concern  doing 
business  in  the  country,  and  not  a  stone,  is 
left  unturned  to  get  all  that  it  is  possible 
from  a  carcass,  no  matter  what  the  cost  to 
human  lives,  no  matter  how  far-reaching 
may  be  the  consequences. 

"Not  a  pound  of  meat  or  fat  is  lost.  The 
best  cattle  are  sold  in  the  Eastern  market  or 
else  exported.  The  next  best  go  through- 
out the  Middle  and  Westers  states  for  iam- 
ily  use.  The  next  class,  that  which  is 
really  unfit  for  even  a  poor  man's  table,  is 
canned  for  American  soldiers  and  wholesale 
distribution  along  the  frontier  into  new 
countries  over  the  mountains  and  broad- 
cast on  the  high  seas. 

"Cattle  that  are  unfit  for  dog-meat  are 
boiled  down,  the  nutriment  is  extracted  for 
soups  and  beef  extracts,  and  the  dry,  un- 
wholesome pulp,  fortified  with  a  mass  of 
gelatinous  substance,  is  jammed  into  a  can 
with  a  flaming  label  around  it.  Meat  that 
can  be  used  for  anything  else  is  never 
canned,  simply  because  there  is  a   better 

53 


d  by  Google 


price  to  be  obtained  for  it  while  it  is  fresh. 
"I  do  know  that  hundreds  upon  hundreds 
of  diseased  and  sickly  cattle  went  into  the 
open  market  as  healthy  beef;  that  diseases 
prevailed  to  a  great  extent:  that  the  in- 
spectors did  not  see,  or  rather,  did  not  pro- 
test against  these  horrible  humors  and  that 
the  men  working  in  the  killing  department 
had  their  instructions  to  pay  no  attention  to 
these  things  except  to  remove  them.  They 
were  there  to  kill  cattle,  dress  them  and 
prepare  the  carcasses  for  sale,  no  matter 
what  sort  of  conditions  they  were  in ,  where 
they  came  from,  or  what  the  consequences 
would  be. ' ' 


VEGETARIAN  COMMUNISM. 
By  David  S.  Cadwalladkr. 

Vegetarianism,  in  its  innate  purity  and 
subtle  methods  of  transforming  the  world, 
and  communism  in  its  grand  sweep  of 
unitary  power  and  its  progressive  adjust- 
ments to  the  divine  will  as  expressed  in 
human  life,  are  essential  elements  and  co- 
ordinate forces  in  the  formation  and  final 
establishment  of  Atstanism,  a  new  and 
divine  order  of  life,  now  seeking  a  demon- 
strable existence  as  imperatively  demanded 
by  the  exigencies  of  the  times. 

Vegetarianism  is  the  true  entering  wedge 
in  the  attainment  of  a  divinely  consiituted 
system  of  communism:  a  oneness  of  spirit- 
ual power  and  action  in  the  unitary  devel- 
opment of  earthly  existence. 

Then,  start  Vegetarian  colonies  on  the 
broad  and  enduring  basis  of  unitary  power, 
as  suggested  by  the  divine  requirements  of 
an  integral  life  or  the  cyclic  laws  of  unitary 
action;  establish  communistic  households 
on  the  fundamental  basis  and  just  and  hu- 
mane principles  of  Vegetarianism  ;  assidu- 
ously study  the  great  problem  of  life,  and 
wisely  promulgate  ideas  of  socialistic  reform 
as  they  crystalize  and  demand  an  expression 

54 


of  soul-lit  powers,  strengthened  and  devel- 
oped, by  earnest  desires  to  live  a  more 
interior  life,  and  finally  exemplify  living 
faith  in  the  new  and  divineorderof  life,  as 
presented  to  conscionsness  for  a  wise  and 
benevolent  consideration,  by  abandoning 
forever  the  outgrown  traditions  and  racial 
nsuages  of.the  past,  and  by  promoting  the 
essential  growth  of  man  into  a  perfect  or 
divine  humanhood.  When  the  laws  of 
spiritual  transformation  are  better  onder- 
stood  and  more  reverently  obeyed,  then  will 
man  more  fully  realize  the  redemptive  pow- 
er of  the  divine  immanency  within — the 
germinal  image  of  the  father  of  all  light, 
life  and  power. 

Vegetarianism,  thtts  implanted  in  the 
organic  form  of  communism,  and  prospect- 
ively expressed  in  the  incoming  ages  of 
atsianisffi,  the  embodiment  of  universal  or 
divine  principles,  as  applicable  to  a  per- 
fective human  development,  will  be  the 
central  and  ruling  elements  of  the  new 
civilization. 

These  two  germinal  and  life- developing 
principles  must  and  will  yet  coaleae  and 
interlock  their  co-ordinate  vital  forces,  and 
become  an  abiding  and  ruling  power  in  the 
emancipation  and  advancement  of  human- 
ity. 

I  refer  you  to  my  advertisement  under 
the  heading  of  "Personals  and  Wants"  in 
the  current  number  of  P.,  H.  and  G. 


A  MEDICAL  TESTIMONIAL. 

Occasionally  high  medical  authority  ad- 
mits the  value  of  Vegetarian  diet  in  certain 
cases: 

Dr.  Strasser  has  published  an  article  in 
the  Weiner  Mediziniche  Presse  giving  Vege- 
tarianism the  full  weight  of  medical  antfaor- 
ity. 

Nourishment  by  means  of  vegetables,  he 
says,  produces  bnt  few  toxines  in  the  di- 
gestive tube  and  causes  the  disappearance 


April, 

d  by  Google 


pOb^HONE^GARDH 


of  abdominal  aad  other  plethora.  Thanks 
to  it  the  urate  become  less  abundant  in  the 
urine,  while  the  hyperacid  becomes  of  a 
neutral  kind  and  sometimes  alkaline.  The 
Vegetarian  regimen  is,  therefore,  advisable 
whenever  there  is  any  fear  of  gastro-intes- 
tioal  auto -intoxication.  It  may  also  be 
recommended  to  persons  of  the  well-to-do 
classes  who  live  too  well,  to  the  obese,  to 
the  goaty,  to  those  suffering  fixim  arterial 
induration,  to  the  plethoric  and  to  the  con- 
stipated. Persons  suffering  from  nervous 
diseases  will  also  notice  a  marked  improve- 
ment under  the  influence  of  a  Vegetarian 
regimen.  Chloratic  patients  who  feel  an 
aversion  to  meat  will  also  obtain  excellent 
results  by  this  treatment.  It  is  sometimes 
successful  in  cases  of  nervous  dyspepsia, 
caused  by  or  complicated  with  atony  of  the 
intestines,  especially  in  cases  of  djrspepsia 
due  to  hyperaesthesia  of  the  intestines,  re- 
sulting in  severe  constipation,  complicated 
by  coprostasis.  The  addition  of  a  grape 
cure  to  a  Vegetarian  treatment  in  the  cases 
of  constipation  and  of  a  milk  diet  incases 
of  arterial  induration,  with  reoat  complica- 
tions, often  gives  excellent  results. 


ELLKN  SNOW. 

In  our  last  numbsr  we  gave  a  sketch  of 
the  young  lady  who  wrote  "The  Treachery 
of  Satan,"  accompanied  by  an  installment 
of  her  portrait.  This  month  wg  present  a 
nearly  full  length  picture  which  shows  a 
graceful  attitude  which  seems  perfectly 
natural  and  is  charming  in  its  expression. 

Miss  Snow  is  one  of  those  ladies  who, 
having  taken  up  the  cause  of  defenceless 
inuocenee  for  the  prevention  of  cruelty  to 
animals,  was  soon  brought  to  see  that  the 
large  destruction  of  animal  life  in  providing 
flesh  for  food .  was  an  important  factor  in 
creating  and  maintaining  a  callous  disre- 
gard for  the  lives  anil  sufferings  of  creatures 
that,  in  consequence  of  his  superior  intelli- 
gence, are  entirely  at  man's  mercy  for  their 
enjoyment  and  the  continuance  of  their 
lives.  How  man  has  taken  advantage  of 
his  position  to  sacrifice  animals  to  gratify 
his  own  lusts  and  desires,  is  shown  by  the 
extensive  practice  of  destroying  their  lives 
for  human  food. 

That  animals  placed  under  the  dominion 

1899 


of  man  for  care  and  protection  should  be 
treated  with  cruelty  while  living,  and  their 
bodies,  after  being  mutilated,  in  many  cases 
before  life  can  have  become  extinct,  in 
order  to  furnish  gustatory  enjoyment  to 
their  natural  protectors,  shows  a  condition 
of  human  degradation  wholly  irreconcilable 
with  civilization  and  with  that  refinement 
which  belongs  to  man  as  a  religious,  intel- 
ligent being,  having  humane  sentiments, 
and  that  sense  of  justice  which  is  the  basis 
of  true  ethics.  It  is  a  practice  which  be- 
longs to  the  period  of  force  rather  than  that 
of  justice,  the  rule  of  which  was  that  "might 
makes  right." 

Miss  Snow,  having  enlisted  in  the  ranks 
of  animals'  friends,  could  not  but  see  that 
to  be  consistant  she  must  also  abstain  from 
the  product  of  all  this  slaughter  and  cruelty. 

Her  circumstances  at  first  did  not  favor 
the  practical  carrying  out  of  her  new  formed 
convictions,  and  before  doing  so,  while 
yielding  to  the  influence  of  surroundings 
and  laboring  zealously  against  vivisection, 
in  which  her  feelings  became  strongly 
affected  by  a  contemplation  and  intense 
thought  on  the  unnatural,  heartless  prac- 
tice, nervous  prostration  followed,  as  it 
naturally  would. 

Then  circumstances  changed  so  that  she 
could  follow  practically  her  convictions  and 
her  abstinence  from  animal  food  and  par- 
taking of  the  less  stimulating  but  more 
nourishing  products  of  the  garden  and 
orchard  instead  of  the  cattle  ranch  and 
slaughter-house,  produced  a  gradual  and 
healthy  change  in  her  nervous  system  so 
that  now  she  is  able  to  do  a  large  amount 
ofUterary  work  for  which  she  is  admirably 
adapted. 

The  end  of  conflict  between  her  con- 
victions and  her  practice  has  brought  peace 
and  tranquility  and  by  a  persistent  adher- 
ence to  her  principles  there  is  reason  to  be- 
lieve she  has  entered  upon  a  long  career  of 
usefnlness  in  connection  with  the  Humane 
organization  of  England,  which  she  so  ably 
represents  in  this  country.  We  hope  oc- 
casionally to  receive  contributions  from  her 
pen,  knowing  that  her  heart  is  deeply 
interested  in  the  abolition  of  all  forms  of 
vivisection  and  cruelty,  whether  practiced 
by  butchers,  surgeons  or  sportsmen. 

55 
Dbi-zsdbyGoOgle 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


TKOBTMIAH  SOCICTV  OT  AM  mil  IC  A,  FublU) 

>«.. 

St..     Stalhm  P,  (Not  to  Chcitaat  St.}   Phll*d. 

Foolkrod 

elphO, 

RSV.   HHNRY  3.  CLUBB,  Kdilor. 

Mr«rtI*nDnti  Mr   llae,   oat    iaurtloa,    t< 

>    centf. 

We  call  attention  to  the  advertisetneDt  of 
the  Co-operative  Low  River  Colony,  Jamai- 
ca. Those  who  desire  a  warm,  healthy 
climate  may  be  suited  there  and  will  find 
congenial  society. 

Ottr  New  England  friends  do  not  seem  to 
care  abotit  having  the  Vegetarians  meet 
them  at  Mystic,  Conn.,  in  Conference  next 
summer,  as  they  have  given  no  encourage- 
ment to  the  proposition.  Well,  we  can 
meet  at  Northwood  Park,  Frankford,  Phil- 
adelphia, anyhow. 

We  call  attention  to  the  advertisement 
entitled  "Grand  Philanthropic  Scheme." 
It  is  being  pushed  with  creditable  energy 
and  certainly  deserves  succfss.  Dr.  Rein- 
hold  is  the  originator,  and  knows  of  the 
success  of  a  similar  scheme  in  Germany. 
We  trust  our  friends  will  give  it  encourage- 
ment and  support. 

Mr.  Richard  Lehmann,  Olean,  Indiana, 
wants  to  make  an  effort  in  this  country  to 
obtain  reduced  rates  forlife  insurance  poli- 
cies for  Vegetarians  as  we  announced  was 
the  case  in  England.  As  we  are  long 
passed  seventy,  we  cannot  be  insured  in 
any  company  that  we  know  of,  but  will  be 
happy  to  help  in  this  matter  for  the  benefit 
of  yotmger  applicants. 

Our  friend  Wm.   Canby  Ferris  writes  us 
on  "Scientific  Mating"  contending  that  by 
means  of  occult  science  marriage  can  be 
1899 


rednced  to  a  certainty  and  need  not  be  the 
lottery  it  now  is.  We  cannot  spare  the 
space  to  insert  his  article ,  but  if  any  choose 
to  consult  him  at  his  College  of  Occult 
Forces,  elsewhere  advertised,  they  will  un- 
doubtedly receive  courteous  attention  to 
their  communications. 


VEGETARIAN  BADGE. 
A  very  neat  button  with  "V.  S.  A.,"  a 
wheat  sheaf  and  "  Live  and  let  live"  for  its 
motto  has  been  put  on  the  market.  It  will 
sell  at  15  eta.  each  by  Toail.  We  hope  next 
month  to  print  the  design.  A  pair  of  cuff- 
buttons  with  design  like  the  above  at  f  1 .00 
to  $3.00  a  pair  according  to  quality  of  me- 
tal. The  $4.00  ones  are  solid  gold.  Fur- 
ther particulars  next  month. 

PHILADELPHIA  VEG.  SOCIETY. 

At  the  March  meeting  of  the  above  So- 
ciety held  at  1023  Foulkrod  St.  on  the  19th 
there  were  interesting  discussions.  The 
result  was  it  was  concluded  on  motion  of 
Dr.  J.  Harvey  Lovell  to  hold  a  picnic  some- 
time in  June  in  Northwood  Park,  Philadel- 
phia. The  subject  of  a  Vegetarian  Bicycle 
Club  was  also  considered  and  subsequently 
a  preliminary  meeting  for  the  organization 
of  the  Club  was  called.  Thesubject  of  the 
Summer  Conference  at  Mystic  was  also 
considered  and  debated.  It  was  left  to  the 
V.  S.  A.  to  arrange. 


A  HOME  FOR  REFORMERS. 
Dr.  E.  M.  Bingham,    Springfield,  Mass., 
a   most  bithful  and  devoted  friend  of  Hy- 
gienic reform,    writes    in   regard  to   New 
Crange,  N.   J.    14   miles  from  New   York 
City   Court   House,   that  there  are   13,000 
acres  being  developed  for  a  city  and  a  suit- 
able lot  is  offered  for  a  Sanitarium ;  a  Hy- 
gienic College  or  both.     I  wish  a  home   for 
aged  reformers  could  be  established  there. 
If  any  of  our  wealthy  friends  feel  disposed 
to  endow  such   an   institution,     this  is  a 
56 
DigrzsdbvGoOglC 


splendid  opportunity.  Those  who  have 
spent  their  lives  in  the  service  of  reform 
shoold  not  be  permitted  to  want  a  home  in 
their  declining  years. 

DR.  EDNA  BINGHAM. 
Dr.  Edna  Bingham  a  most  fiiithful  and 
Ecalotts  laborer  for  many  years  in  the  cause 
of  Hygienic  and  Vegetarian  reform  died  at 
Soatb  Springfield,  Mass.,  March  i,  1899. 
We  are  indebted  to  Nellie  H.  Field,  her 
neighbor  and  friend  for  this  information. 
Dr.  Bingham  was  the  only  correspondent  in 
New  England  who  wrote  encouragingly  of 
the  proposed  Conference  at  Mystic. 


IS  CHEAP  FOOD  A  DISADVANTAGE? 
Because  Vegetarians  are  supplying  meals 
at  a  cent  a  plate  and  a  bed  for  a  nickle  in 
Kansas  City  some  of  the  newspapers  con- 
strue it  into  a  movement  to  reduce  the 
wages  of  workingmen.  The  same  charge 
was  made  against  the  Anti  Com  Law  league 
of  England.  But  since  bread  has  become 
cheap  in  consequence  of  free  trade,  wages 
have  also  advanced.  The  fact  is  the  less  it 
costs  him  to  live  the  more  independent  a 
workingman  becomes  and  he  can  the  more 
readily  demand  fair  wages.  A  Vegetarian 
and  teetotaler  can  insist  on  justice  more 
successfully  than  a  fiesh  eater  or  drunkard. 


MERCY  TOWARDS  FLESH  EATERS. 
Mrs.  Fairchild  Allen,  the  talented  editor 
of  Our  Fellow  Creatures,  Chicago,  has  writ- 
ten an  able  reply  to  Rev.  Josiah  Adams, 
who  wrote  in  the  Dog  Fancier  in  regard  to 
flesh  eating  being  called  "Cannibalism". 
Mrs.  Allen's  article  being  declined  by  the 
Dog  Fancier  it  has  been  kindly  sent  to  us 
for  publication.  We  have  carefully  read  it 
and  while  admitting  the  force  of  Mrs. 
Allen's  arguments  in  justification  of  the 
use  of  this  word  as  applicable  to  flesh  eat- 
ing, and  we  hope  to  present  them  in  a 
1899 


future  number,  we  are  not  anxious  to  apply 
the  approbrious  term  "cannibal"  to  any  of 
our  flesh  eating  friends  believing  that  their 
burden  is  already  as  heavy  as  they  can  bear 
in  view  of  the  recent  exposures  before  the 
Army  Beef  Commission  and  the  resulting 
disclosures. 


LUMPY  JAW   BEEF. 

George  M.  Lecrone,  Ex-secretary  Illinois 
State  Live  Stock  Commission  writes  in  the 
Democrat  and  Chronicle :  "This  character 
of  diseased  meat,  if  furnished  the  soldiers, 
would  undoubtedly  produce  widespread 
disease  in  the  army.  Only  those  who  have 
witnessed  post-mortem  inspections  of  it 
know  of  its  vile  character.  The  traffic  in 
this  meat  amounted  to  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  dollars  annually." 

The  above  remark  forms  the  conclusion 
of  a  report  in  reference  to  lumpy-jaw  cattle 
slaughtered  daily  by  the  packers  in  Chicago 
who  have  become  millionaires  by  the  traffic. 


THE  PEANUT  INDUSTRY. 
A  Peanut  Trust  with  half  a  million  dol- 
lars capital  has  been  organized  at  Norfolk, 
Va.,  to  control  the  peanut  crop  at  Virginia 
and  North  Carolina.  We  publish  direc- 
tions for  peanut  culture  with  a  view  to  ex- 
tend the  raising  of  peanuts  in  all  other 
states  so  that  the  Trust  cannot  control  the 
market.  Let  ever/  farmer  try  this  crop  this 
season.  The  price  of  Peanuts  is  advancing 
in  consequence  of  the  rapidly  increasing 
demand.  Even  in  places  where  the  yield 
of  nuts  is  not  profitable  the  vines  will  be 
found  an  excellent  fertilizer  to  plow  in,  sim- 
ilar to  clover,  being  highly  nitrogenous. 
The  agricultural  Department,  Washington, 
will  furnish  information  gratis.  There  is 
no  reason  why  peanuts  should  not  be  ex- 
tensively grown  and  become  a  staple  crop 
throughout  the  middle  and  southern  states. 


d  by  Google 


EDWIN  COLLIER. 

On  Sunday  March  19th,  1899,  memorial 
services  were  held  at  the  fiible  Christian 
Chorch,  Philadelphia  in  regard  to  the  re- 
cent death  of  Mr.  Edwin  Collier  of  Man- 
chester, England.  After  describing  the 
Christian  character  as  inculcated  in  23rd 
chapter  of  St.  Matthew,  in  contrast  with 
that  of  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees.  Mr. 
Clubbsaid:  "A  life  of  this  singular  humil- 
ity and  usefulness  has  just  closed  in  con- 
nection with  the  B.  C,  Church  of  England. 

On  the  nth  of  February,  1899,  Edwin 
Collier  departed  this  life.  He  visited  this 
country  with  his  wife  some  twenty  years 
ago  and  both  left  a  very  favorable  impres- 
sion. 

"He  was  a  lifelong  vegetarian.  Like 
King  David  of  old  he  was  of  a  ruddy,  clear 
complexion.  We  well  remember  him  over 
fifty  years  ago.  He  was  a  fine  handsome 
young  man  but  exceedingly  modest  and 
apparently  unambitious  for  external  show 
and  effect.  But  he  was  an  admirable  ex- 
ample of  well  poised,  self-reliant  manhood, 
and  as  he  grew  in  years  he  became  a  most 
valuable  and  efficient  member.  He  also 
supplied  the  pulpit  of  the  Church  during 
the  vacancy  that  preceded  the  advancement 
to  that  position  of  Mr.  Clark. 

"March  27th  will  be  the  72nd  anniver- 
sary of  his  birth  having  been  bom  in  1S27. 
He  was  but  three  month  our  senior.  We 
were  young  men  together  and  it  gives  us 
pleasure  to  testify  to  the  truth,  uprightness 
and  purity  of  his  life  and  character. 

"He  has  filled  honorable  positions  both 
in  the  Church  and  the  Vegetarian  Society 
of  which  he  was  a  member  from  its  incep- 
tion over  fifty-two  years  ago,  and  his  per- 
sonal appearance  added  to  the  force  of  his 
arguments  in  favor  of  the  cause  he  loved. 
He  was  a  deacon  and  trustee  of  the  church 
58 


for  nearly  forty  years  and  an  entbosiastic 
teacher  in  the  Sunday  school. 

"His  five  children  were  brought  up  in 
the  same  faith  and  practice. 

"His  personal  appearanceis  described  in 
the  Vegetarian  Messenger:  'Tall  and  well- 
built  and  with  a  fine  head  surmounted  by 
a  mass  of  white  hair,  he  looked  the  person- 
ification of  vigorous  old  age.' 

"  He  is  believed  to  be  the  eldest  of  the 
trustees  and  deacons  of  that  church  and 
probably  the  oldest  member.  If  that  be 
correct,  we  are  now  the  oldest  member  of 
that  church.  He  has,  we  have  no  doubt, 
been  added  to  the  communion  of  the  foith- 
ful  who  have  found  the  blessedness  of 
eternal  youth." 


THE  OLLALA  BROTHERHOOD. 

Already  I  see  the  tendency  to  clean  liv- 
ing. The  people  here  are  willing  to  see 
truth  even  if  it  takes  them  into  an  undis- 
covered country.  They  eat  with  us  con- 
tinually and  can  see  for  themselves  that  it 
is  possible  to  be  strong  and  healthful  on 
simple,  clean  food. 

We  have  a  good  deal  of  fun  with  our 
Vegetarian  Society  Mill.  The  young  folks 
want  to  try  it,  so  I  tell  them  to  co-operste 
in  this  as  in  other  work  and  a  man  and  then 
a  woman  take  hold  of  the  handle  and  the 
work  is  done  and  no  one  is  exhausted. 
Then  of  course  they  must  eat  some  of  the 
bread  made  of  the  whole  wheat  Graham 
flour. 

Thus  the  good  work  goes  on :  another 
vegetarian  has  joined  the  colony  and  an- 
other the  brotherhood  who  very  likely  will 
soon  begin  to  work.  So  you  see  they  are 
coming. 

Food,  Home  &  Garden  is  doing  its  work 
coming  to  the  office  of  the  Brotherhood  and 
my  two  copies  find  their  way  elsewhere. — 
Harriet  C.  Stein.  Ollala,  Wash. 


April, 

d  by  Google 


DINNER  MENU. 

Leotll  Sonp. 
C*lei7.  Panolp  Ball*. 

Olt«<  Bqaana.  Mat  Sandwiches. 

Apple  Tapioca  Paddlos- 

OrealCoAe. 

RECIPES. 
Lentil  Soup. — Wash  and  pick  over  i  qt. 
of  Egyptian  red  lentils  ;  set  on  the  fire  in 
four  quarts  of  water,  add  2  pounds  of  tur- 
nips, I  pound  of  carrots,  one  Spanish  onion, 
one  root  of  celery,  one  ounce  of  parsley,  and 
a  little  salt.  Boil  till  quite  soft,  rub 
through  a  fine  colander  adding  boiling 
water  as  required ;  rettuu  to  the  pan,  sea- 
son and  add  one  ounce  of  Nutcoa  or  butter, 
and  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 

Prom  TaMt  Tulh. 

Creamed  Celery. — Scrape  and  cut  the 
celery  into  inch  pieces ;  stalks  which  are 
not  sufficiently  blanched  for  use  raw  or-in 
salads  will  do.  Drop  them  into  boiling 
water  and  simmer  until  tender,  about  twen- 
ty minutes.  Drain  and  to  one  pint  of  cel- 
ery add  one  cupful  of  whitesauce.  Simmer 
for  ten  minutes. 

Olive  Squares. — Chop  fine  and  pound  to 
a  pulp  two  dozen  olives  and  one- half  cupful 
of  crisp  celery.  Add  to  it  J4  of  a  teaspoon- 
fiil  of  made  mustard,  i  teaspoonful  of  to- 
mato catsup,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cracker 
dust  and  i  cupful  of  mayonnaise.  Cut  the 
crust  from  a  loaf  of  brown  or  entire  wheat 
bread,  spread  the  end  of  the  loaf  with  a 
little  of  the  mixture  aud  cut  off  a  thin  slice ; 
continue  until  you  have  sufScient.  Put  the 
slices  together  as  sandwiches  and  cut  in 
three  inch  squares. 

Parsnip  Balls. — Mash  fine  i  pint  of  boiied 
parsnips,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
1899 


butter,  a  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  Stir  over  the  fire 
until  very  hot,  take  oflF  and  add  one  well- 
beaten  egg.  When  cold  make  up  into 
small  balls,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in 
bread  crumbs  aad  fty  golden  tnrown  in 
smoking  hot  &t. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding. — Pick  over  and 
wash  I  cupfiil  of  pearl  tapioca  then  soak 
over  night.  Drain,  cover  with  i  quart  of 
boiling  water,  add  J4  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  transparent, 
which  will  take  fully  two  hours.  Add  i 
cupful  of  sugar  and  the  strained  juice  of  i 
lemon  and  take  from  the  fire.  Core  8  large 
tart  apples,  arrange  them  in  a  baking-pan 
and  pour  over  them  the  tapioca.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  the  apples  are  quite 
tender  and  serve  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 

From  G.  G.  OlbU,  VafI,  K.  J. 

Good  Com  Bread. — Sift  i  quart,  of  com 
meal  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder^ 
Add  7  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  Nutcoa  or 
Diamond  Butter  Oil,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
2  eggs  and  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a 
thin  batter.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  well 
greased  pan  in  a  moderate  pven.  The 
bread  when  baked  should  not  be  more  than 
I  %  inches  thick  to  be  best. 

Doughnuts. — ^Take  2  eggs,  i  cup  of  sug- 
ar, 2  tablespoonfuls  melted  Nutcoa,  one 
cup  of  milk,  (or  water)  2  cups  of  Sour,  i 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Beat  eggs  Until  light ;  add  sugar, 
shorteningand  fluid.  Mix;  then  add  flour 
and  baking  powder  sifted  together,  beat 
well,  add  nutmeg;  then  add  enough  more 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough ;  knead  lightly  ; 
roll  out ;  cut  and  iry  in  very  hot  Nutcoa. 

59 


d  by  Google 


•  •'    "  "   ■i-irn- "- 


Prom  B.  a.  Hotham.  Wilkc*  IMrre,  Pa. 

Composite  Cereal  Food. — It  is  not  far 
from  the  essence  of  life  itself,  yet  is  very 
simple.  Rolled  Oate,  rolled  wheat,  both 
fresh,  equal  quantities.  About  enough  rice 
to  equal  these  when  cooked.  Cook  rice  in 
plenty  of  cold  water  to  mushy  consistency. 
Season,  throw  in  both  wheat  and  oats. 
Simmer,  never  boiling,  nearly  all  day. 
Cook  it  somewhat  dry.  Eat  some  of  this 
hot  at  night  with  cold  milk.  This  cold  is 
far  superior  and  more  natural  to  the  stomach 
than  com  mudh.  While  on  the  griddle 
hTfik  it  up  with  a  plated  fork  into  small 


From  Mary  Gretoraoii. 

To  Cook  Greens. — The  best  way  to  cook 
greens  is  in  a  rice  cooker,  or  double  boiler, 
in  their  own  juices.  First  put  on  the  dou- 
ble boiler  with  water  in  the  lower  part  only, 
having  the  upper  part  on  and  covered  to 
get  hot.  Look  over,  wash  and  drain  the 
greens.  Put  them  into  a  large  pan,  season 
with  salt  to  taste,  mixing  it  in  thoroughly. 
When  the  water  boils  in  the  lower  part  of 
the  boiler,  put  the  greens  in  to  cook.  An 
hour  cooks  them  tender.  They  are  nice 
eaten  with  bread  spread  with  nut  butter. 

Nut  Butter. — An  excellent  nut  butter 
is  made  of  walnuts,  peanuts  and  Brazil 
nuts  in  portions  to  suit  the  taste,  mixed  and 
ground  together.  Put  into  a  large  bowl. 
If  not  creamy  enough  to  spread  for  sand- 
wiches, stir  in  a  few  drops  of  water  till  suffi- 
ciently creamy  and  smooth. 

SALT  RISINO    BREAD. 

The  newest  thing  is  not  always  the  best. 
It  pajrs  to  tnm  back  occasionally  and  pick 
up  something  long  since  cast  away.  Twen- 
ty years  ago  I  cast  away  salt  rising  bread, 
I  mean  now  to  havethe  old  time  bread  again. 
Let  it  forever  be  called  Long  Life  Bread. 
It  is  sweet  and  has  its  own  peculiar  flavor. 
There  is  nothing  in  it  which  was  not  at  8 
A.  M.  salt,  water  and  flour,  and  it  is  done 
60 


at  6  P.  M.  or  earlier.  It  is  well  leavened, 
without  sour  or  poisonous  rot  in  the  yeast, 
and  hence  must  be  wholesome,  as  I  find 
that  it  is.  The  trick  in  making  it  is  to 
keep  the  yeast  and  the  dough  from  getting 
chilled.  It  must  be  kept  warm  or  it  will 
sotu*.  I  bum  a  bouse  lamp  under  a  tin 
oven,  tnmed  half  down,  and  so  keep  it  at 
an  even  temperature.  I  make  a  large  cofiee 
cup  half  full  of  thick  batter,  using  a  tea- 
spoon which  I  leave  in  the  yeast  nntil  it 
rises.  A  very  small  pinch  of  salt  is  dis- 
solved in  the  warm  water,  and  it  is  thick- 
ened with  graham  flour ;  stir  fonr  or  five 
times  before  it  begins  to  rise  at  aboat  2  P. 
M.  Meantime  put  the  flpor  into  the  oven 
to  warm,  to  prevent  the  dough  from  becom- 
ing chilled  in  the  kneading.  If  it  is  sweet 
and  good,  the  yeast  rises  from  the  center; 
if  sour  it  will  look  blubbery  and  dabby  on 
the  sides  of  the  cup,  and  not  rise  more  than 
half  the  height  of  sweet  yeast.  The  dough 
should  be  well  kneaded,  and  the  grain  is 
very  fine,  and  the  bread  whiter  than  that 
made  of  other  yeast.  The  dough  should  be 
made  into  flat  loaves  and  set  bock  into  the 
oven  to  rise.  It  is  only  kneaded  once.  It 
will  require  nearly  two  hours  to  rise  in  the 
bakepans,  and  it  must  be  well  np  before  tt 
is  put  to  bake.  If  the  yeast  sours  don't 
spoil  the  bread  with  it.  Try  again,  if  prop- 
erly done  there  is  no  chance  to  &il. — A 
Stranger. 

FRUIT  COCO. 

Our  friends  at  Battle  Creek  of  the  Sanitas 
Food  Co.  have  just  invented  the  above 
"food  beverage"  which  they  claim  is  a  de- 
cided improvement  on  other  beverages  to 
supersede  tea  and  cofiee.  They  send  sam- 
ple for  two  two-cent  stamps.  We  have  not 
seen  it  yet. 

"  Do  yon  buy  condensed  milk,  madam?" 
' '  I  presume  so,  I  order  and  pay  for  two  qts. 
but  it  never  measures  more  than  three  pts. ' ' 


April, 

d  by  Google 


f 


SPRING  AND  SUMMER. 

Gentle  Spring  1>  opmlng  bodi  and  Boirera  : 
April  will  Bid  with  lUDihlne  snd  with  nhowen ; 
Vy  will  bring  BeinCr'K  triumphs:  gifta  and  white, 
Tbeo  Jnne  with  lUDibine  warm,  Dll  hearts  delight. 

HONEY    IN     NEW     MEXICO. 

Producing  honey  and  wax  would  pay 
well,  if  properly  handled.  I  suggest  not 
only  basswood  (the  bee-tree  par  excellence) 
as  an  adjunct  to  al&tfa  and  similar  bee- 
pastore,  but  the  introduction  of  queens  and 
drones,  respectively,  of  bees  from  Hindos- 
tan,  (used  in  the  Philippines)  and  intended 
to  be  acclimated  in  this  country,  by  the 
federal  Agricultural  Department  because 
said  India  bees  are  very  industrious  and 
being  larger  get  deeper  into  flowers  than 
the  Italian  bees,  which  in  turn  reach  farther 
than  the  common  native  workers. 

irplantations  of  catnip  might  be  shielded 

firom  cats  and   other  trespassers  fancying 

that  plant,  a  pasture  would  obtain  liked  by 

bees  and  making  fine  honey. — R.  Hecker. 

THE  BEST  VEGETABLES. 

For  several  years  I  have  experimented 
with  hundreds  of  varieties  of  vegetables  and 
have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  the  fol- 
lowing are  the  best  varieties  for  home  con- 
sumption : 

Sqttashes,  Delicata  for  summer  and  Pike's 
Peak  for  fell  and  winter. 

Melons,  Emerald  Gem  and  Osage  for 
musk,  and  Phinney's  Early  and  Fordhook 
Early  for  water. 

Pumpkins.  Japanese  Pie. 

Sugar  Com,  Crosby,  plant  every  two 
weeks  till  middle  of  July, 

Peas,  American  Wonder  and  Black  Eye 
Marrowfat. 

Onions,  Red  Globe;  it  is  very  large,  mild 
and  tender. 
1899 


DEN 


Beets,  Edmand's  Blood  Turnip. 

Cabbage,  Jersey  Wakefield,  Improved 
American  Savoy  and  Warren. 

Beans,  Dreer's  Improved  Lima,  Brocton 
and  Scarlet  Runner  for  pole  and  Boston 
Favorite,  Red  Kidney  and  Navy  Pea  for 
bush. 

Tomatoes,  Dwarf  Champion ;  of  twenty 
varieties  tested  for  two  years  I  do  not  hesi- 
tate to  place  this  at  the  head  of  the  list. 

Turnips,  Golden  Ball  and  Improved 
American  Ruta  Baga. 

Potatoes,  New  Queen  and  Chicago  Market. 

Perhaps  some  other  varieties  may  produce 
larger  crops  than  these,  but  this  list  is  all 
right  for  those  who  are  looking  for  good 
quality. — J.  A.  Wilson,  Amesbury,  Mass. 

As  a  matter  of  quality  we  would  add  the 
Habbard,  and  the  Vegetable  Marrow  to  the 
list  of  Squash.  White  silver  skin  to  the 
list  of  onions.  Early  Rose  to  the  list  of 
potatoes. — Ed. 

PLANT     FkUIT     TREES. 

Many  persons  fail  to  set  out  trees  and 
vines  because  they  fear  they  will  not  live  to 
eat  the  fruit.  Some  years  ago  the  writer 
beard  an  old  man  say  that  he  had  planted 
and  eaten  the  fruit  of  three  different  or- 
chards, and  that  at  seventy  years  of  age  he 
had  planted  a  fourth  orchard  for  others, 
but  at  eighty-seven  years  he  still  lives  to 
eat  the  fruit  of  his  own  trees.  Strawberries 
and  raspberries  bear  in  abundance  the  sec- 
ond year  after  planting ;  blackberries,  cur- 
rants, grapes  and  gooseberries  the  third 
year.  Peach  trees  will  often  bear  full  crops 
the  third  year.  Early  bearing  apples,  pear 
and  plum  trees  will  often  produce  abundant- 
ly for  the  family  the  fourth  and  fifth  years. 
— Fruit  Grower. 


dbyGcfogle 


WWf^'^W 


CULTIVATION    OF   PEANUTS. 

If  the  land  for  peanut  cultivation  has 
been  well  prepared  before  the  nuts  are 
planted  the  after  cultivation  is  very  simple 
and  inexpensive.  The  weeds  should  be 
kept  down  by  using  a  narrow  harrow  or  a 
double  cultivator.  Many  growers  use  a 
one-horse  turning  plow  and  bar  oS*  the  soil 
from  the  peanuts  when  they  first  come  up. 
AAerward  in  the  cultivation  of  the  white 
peanut  this  middle  ridge  is  leveled  down 
with  a  harrow  or  double  shovel.  For  the 
red  or  upright  growere  the  dirt  at  the  sec- 
ond plowing  is  nstially  thrown  back  to 
them,  if  they  have  attained  a  height  great 
enough  not  to  be  covered  up  by  the  process. 
The  peanut  will  thrive  with  the  same  culti- 
vation that  is  given  to  com.  Any  cultiva- 
tion is  good  that  will  destroy  the  weeds  and 
keep  the  land  in  good  tilth,  but  it  must  not 
be  extended  beyond  the  period  when  the 
peanuts  begin  to  form,  and  especially  mtist 
this  caution  be  observed  in  the  case  of  the 
the  trailing  or  white  peanuts.  Level  culti- 
vation is  fer  better  for  the  white  peanut  and 
usually  good  for  the  red. 

Many  years  ago  it  was  thought  that  a 
necessary  requirement  in  the  cultivation  of 
the  white  peanut  was  to  cover  the  bloom. 
This  practice  has  been  long  discontinued, 
for  it  not  only  does  no  good,  but  it  does 
much  injury,  and  decreases  the  yield  of  the 
crop.  The  spikelets  form  above  ground 
after  the  Eall  of  the  flowers,  but  the  ground 
should  be  soft  enough  to  permit  the  sharp, 
thomlike  points  to  penetrate  the  surface. 
When  once  beneath  the  suriace  the  ovary  at 
the  end  of  the  spikelet  begins  to  enlarge  and 
ripens  into  a  pale,  yellowish,  wrinkled  pod, 
slightly  curved,  sometimes  contracted  in 
the  middle,  and  containing  generally  two, 
sometimes  three,  and  rarely  four  kernels. 
A  dry  spring  is  always  desirable  for  plant- 
ing and  cultivating,  but  when  the  spikelets 
62 


begin  to  push  down  into  the  ground  fre- 
quent showers  are  indispensable  to  a  large 
yield. 

Time  and  Method  of  Planting. 
The  land  for  peanuts  is  nsnally  prepared 
during  the  latter  part  of  April  after  the  dan- 
ger of  frost  is  passed.  It  could  be  well 
broken  and  finely  pulverized  with  a  hairow. 
For  white  peanuts  of  the  spreading  variety 
the  land  is  checked  off  in  rows  two  and  one- 
half  to  three  feet  apart,  and  two  kernels, 
after  being  carefully  hnlled  by  hand,  are 
dropped  at  the  points  of  intersection  of  the 
furroflra,  like  com,  and  covered  with  a  hoe 
to  the  depth  of  one  and  one-half  to  two  in- 
ches. In  shelling  the  nuts  care  mnstbe 
taken  not  to  break  the  delicate  covering 
that  snrrotmda  the  kernels,  for  this  will  im- 
pair or  totally  destroy  their  vitality.  If  the 
land  after  planting  should  become  compact- 
ed by  a  hard  rain,  a  light  harrow  should  be 
run  over  it  when  the  land  is  dry  enough  to 
plow,  in  order  to  break  the  obstructing 
crust,  so  that  the  very  delicate  shoot  can 
make  its  way  to  the  surface.  Red  peanuts 
are  planted  in  ridges,  like  cotton.  The 
rows  are  run  off  three  feet  apart  and  four 
furrows  thrown  on  these.  The  ridges  thus 
made  are  opened  on  top  by  a  bull-tongne 
plow  or  colter,  and  the  seed  dropped  at  in- 
tervals of  eight  to  twelve  inches  apart,  and 
covered  two  inches  deep  by  a  board  like 
that  employed  for  covering  cotton  seed,  or 
it  would  be  better  to  procure  a  one-hoise 
com  planter,  adjusted  so  as  to  open  the 
ridges  the  proper  depth,  and  to  drop  the 
kernels  at  the  reqtiired  intervals  and,  at 
the  same  time,  cover  them.  About  two 
and  one-balf  bttshels  in  the  hull  are  required 
to  plant  an  acre.  The  brown  millipede,  the 
cut  worm,  and  the  mole  are  all  great  ene- 
mies of  the  peanuts  when  just  planted. 
Replanting  should  begin  if  the  phint  does 
not  appear  in  ten  days. — Southern  MagaziM. 
^      A(»il, 

DigrzsdbyGoOglC 


A  PET  FRUIT  TREE. 

Mr.  O.  N.  Cadwell  was  a  neighbor  of 
oms  in  Michigan  about  forty  years  ago. 
He  went  to  California  and  being  an  intelli- 
gent fanner,  planted  a  fniit  ranch  and  now 
he  writes  from  his  beautiful  home  at  Cai- 
penterea,  California  : 

"We  have  plenty  of  oranges,  some  ba- 
nanas, a  few  apples,  lemons,  guavas  &c.     I 


and  myself  appeared  under  the  orange  tree 
when  photo  was  taken  last  summer.  Our 
girl  stands  near  with  bunch  of  flowers. 

"Beyond  the  house,  to  the  left  hand, 
appear  the  tops  of  some  large,  live  oak 
trees.  The  branch  of  oranges  over  my  right 
hand  is  held  up  with  a  prop  to  keep  it  from 
breaking  off.  I  picked  some  of  the  leaves 
off  so  the  fruit  shows  more  just  there. 


send  you  a  photo  of  one  of  my  pets,  an 
orange  tree  loaded  from  the  ground  up  with 
bushels  of  oranges.  We  can  find  ripe  fruit 
on  it  any  day  of  the  year  if  we  try.  You 
can  see  me  holding  up  a  heavy  branch  with 
a  load  of  nearly  a  bushel  or  box.  The 
fruit  does  not  show  to  advantage  among  the 
foliage  as  the  leaves  look  so  much  like 
fruit.     You  can  see  something  how  Mrs.  C. 


"The  picture  was  taken  to  show  the  tree 
and  fruit  more  than  anything  else.  That 
tree  does  not  cost  me  half  of  the  work  and 
cash  it  would  to  produce  a  hog  that  would 
weigh  250  pounds.  It  affords  us  much 
pleasure  when  in  bloom  and  fruiting.  The 
blossoms  are  so  fragrant  and  delightful ! 
Not  to  be  shunned  like  the  odor  of  a  hog- 
pen !" 


d  by  Google 


Some  Ibealtb  "noveltfcs. 


IMPROVED    BATH    CABINET. 

THE  PAST  YEAR  has  been  prolific  in 
inventions  affecting  the  question  of  Health, 
some    of   which  we  may   here  note.     The 
Qnaker  Vapor  Bath  Cabinet,  which  we  have 
been  recommending  for   its   high  character 
as  to  the  quality  of  the  rubber  material  used 
and  the  convenience  mth  which  it  may   be 
packed  and  carried,    has   been  further  im- 
proved as  showu  iu  the  accompanying  en- 
graving,  by    a  side  opening  to   facilitate 
entering  and  exit.     This  will  add   much  to 
the  popularity  of  the  Quaker 
Vapor  Bath.      During  the  ep- 
demic  of  La  Grippe  lately  ex- 
perienced in  Philadelphia,  this 
Vapor  Bath  proved  of  inesti- 
mable value.  One  young  lady 
we  know  who  was   severely 
attacked,  was  given  the   bath 
on  going  to  bed   and  nothing 
'  was   heard   of  her   until    the 
next  morning,  when  she  was  up  bright  and 
early,  and  went  to  her  usual  occupation  as 
if  she  had  never  had  La  Grippe  at  all, 
SAMPLES   BY  HAIL. 
We  are  endeavoring  to  obtain  pound  rates 
for  all  the  goods  and  foods  we  supply   by 
express.     But   in   the   niemiinn;,   we   will 
send  samples  by  mail  of  articles   made   by 
the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  as  fullows  : 

I  CT.  STAMPS 

4  ounces  Whole-wheat  Graham  flour,  lo 

4       "       Pure  Peanut  Butter,  to 

4       "       Penola  (Parched  Corn),  lo 

4       "       Nut  Cheese,  20 

4       "       Walnut  and  Peanut  Butter,  12 

PSNOLA. 

We  have  obtained  an  exceedingly  choice 
quality  of  white  com  with  which  we  pro- 
duce on  our  electric  power  mill  the  finest 
Penola  we  have  ever  tasted.  We  will  send 
a  5  lb.  bag  of  this  for  25  cents.  It  can  be 
sent  with  small  orders  for  nutcoa,  peanut 
butter  and  diamond  butter  oil  with  but  little 
more  expense  for  expressage.  It  has  a  very 
agreeable  odor  and  flavor. 

WHOLE-WHEAT   (;eAHAM. 

Our  whole-wheat  Graham  flour  is  becom- 
ing quite  popular.  We  are  frequently 
asked  to  supply  it.  Now,  with  our  new 
power-mill,  we  can  do  so.  We  will  send  5 
lb,  bags  for  25  cents.  It  is  made  of  the  best 
wheat  from  which  all  cockle  and  other  ob- 
jectionable materials  are  carefully  removed 


before  grinding.  The  wheat  is  also  put 
through  a  special  machine  for  rubbing  off 
the  beard.  This  quantity  will  enable  any 
person  to  try  it  for  gems  or  bread.  It  is 
adapted  to  making  an  excellent  batch  of 
salt-rising  bread,  (See  Home  Department, 
page  60.)  The  chief  merit  of  this  flour  is 
that  the  bran  is  not  extracted  but  ground 
fine  so  that  it  does  not  irritate,  but  will 
yield  its  nutritive  properties  for  the  build- 
ing up  of  the  muscles  and  harder  portions 
of  the  body. 

ONE   POUND   A   MINDTE. 

With  our  new  power  mill  (No.  4  in  the 
mill  pamphlet),  we  can  reduce  roasted, 
shelled  or  blanched  peanuts  to  the  finest 
and  softest  butter  at  the  rate  of  one  pound 
a  minute,  and  the  odor  arising  from  the 
fresh  ground  nuts  is  delightful.  Our  aim  is 
to  make  pure  peanut  butter  as  cheap  and 
cheaper  than  dairy  butter,  aud  to  do  this  we 
sell  a  box  of  12  one-pint  glass  cans,  con- 
taining about  I  lb.  3  ozs.  each  for  £3.00, 
or  a  half  dozen  quart  cans  for  the  same 
price.  The.  latter  is  preferable  for  trans- 
portation and  expressage.  We  can  send 
such  a  package  to  any  railroad  station  in  or 
near  Philadelphia  without  cost  for  express- 
age.  Send  $3,00  and  state  what  railroad 
station  you  wish  the  package  sent  to.  This 
free  transportation  by  package  express.only 
applies  to  direct  orders  for  consumers  and 
not  to  orders  for  dealers  in  or  sellers  of  the 
article.  The  order  should  never  be  for  less 
than  one  dollar's  worth. 

WESTRUP'S   HYGIENIC  IKSOLE, 

Another  article  of  great  utility  is  a  new 
Hygienic  Insole,  invented  by  our  Vegeta- 
rian friend,  Mr,  Westrup,  We  have  been 
trying  these  insoles  and  found  them  exceed- 
ingly comfortable,  especially  in  the  damp 
wintery  weather  we  have  been  having  dur- 
ing February.  1899,  They  are  made  of  a 
non-conducting  inorganic  substance,  render- 
ing them  cooler  in  summer  and  warmer  in 
winter  than  the  leather  sole,  and  being 
quite  thin  and  light,  they  can  be  used  in 
shoes  that  fit  pretty  well  without  insoles. 
They  absorb  the  moisture  from  the  foot  and 
can  be  replaced  with  new  ones  as  often  as 
desired,  thus  contributing  to  health  as  well 
as  comfort.  Send  sixe  of  shoe  worn  and 
state  whether  round  or  pointed  toes  are 
wanted  and  six  cents  in  stamps  and  they 
will  be  sent  by  mail  to  your  own  address. 


v  Google 


GOSPEL  HELP  MISSION.-VEGETARIAN. 

Under  the  auspices  of  the  Gospel  Help  Mission,  of  which  E-  A.  Merril,  1724  North 
Fifteenth  Street,  is  superinlendent,  there  is  a  house  of  refuge  established  at  210  North 
Second  Street,  Philadelphia.  It  has  lieen  successfully  running  during  this  severe  winter 
and  has  rescued  many  men  from  cold,  hunger  and  attendant  evils,  sin  and  misery.  The 
ground  floor  is  a  room,  formerly  a  store,  that  will  accommodate  an  audience  of  about  100 
persons.  From  75  to  100  have  attended  nightly  and  the  meetings  have  been  conducted 
by  Mr.  W.  F.  Schwartz,  an  evangelist,  Mr.  J.  G.  Hanna,  a  nurse  of  considerable  hygienic 
experience,  and  Mr  W.  F.  Caldwell,  cook.  During  the  day  meals  are  being  served  on 
the  second  floor  to  about  100  to  150 persons  at  the  following  low  prices:  2  rolls,  i  cent; 
Cereal  Coffee,  Bowl  of  Bean  or  Pea  Soup,  at  one  cent  each  ;  Bowl  of  stew  and  rolls,  five 


cents;  Bowl  of  oatmeal,  milk  and  sugar,  two  cents;  Lodging,  night  or  day,  including 
bath,  bed,  cereal  coffee  and  rolls,  ten  cents ;  Shelter,  with  cereal  coffee  and  rolls,  five  cents. 
We  visited  the  mission  and  found  it  conducted  in  a  very  orderly  manner  by  young  men 
who  are  gaining  missionary  experience  Everything  is  clean,  and  men  are  required  to 
bathe  before  going  to  bed  Working  men  are  learning  to  appreciate  this  excellent 
arrangement  and  they  say  when  they  live  on  this  Vegetarian  fare  they  lose  desire  for  in- 
toxicating liquor,  having  no  abnormal  thirst  created  by  the  food.  No  fish,  flesh  or  fowl 
is  permitted  to  enter  the  establishment.  Visitors  are  made  welcome  and  can  try  the  fare. 
For  five  cents  a  very  substantial  meal  can  be  enjoyed.  It  is  contemplated  to  use  the 
groand  floor  for  a  Vegetarian  restaurant  during  the  summer  months,  with  a  more  varied 
menu  but  with  very  moderate  prices. 

lov  Google 


LIU  LEHMANN. 


db,  Google 


Vol.  in.  New  Sbries,  No.  28.  MAY,  1899.  Wholb  Number  10 

LILl  LEHMANN,  THE  PRIMA  DONNA. 


THE  New  York  newspapers  liave  rec- 
ently published  as  startling  news 
that  Lili  Cebmann  is  a  Vegetarian. 
This  &ct  was  published  in  the  Vegetarian 
Review,  I^ndon,  in  May,  1897,  tinder  the 
head  of  the  German  Vegetarian  Movement. 
We  now  present  her  portrait  which  shows 
she  is  a  substantial  as  well  as  a  beautiful 
woman,  such  as  must  make  a  powerful 
impression  wherever  seen.  The  New  York 
//enzld  relates  the  following : 

"Mme.  Lehmann,  several  years  ago,  was 
prostrated  by  a  severe  illness,  and  was  off 
the  stage  for  a  long  time.  She  even  de- 
spaired of  regaining  her  health  and  being 
able  to  resume  her  career.  At  that  critical 
moment  two  of  her  friends  advised  her  to 
become  a  Vegetarian.  She  followed  their 
advice  with  most  beneficial  results.  One 
advantage  she  derived  from  it  is  that  on  the 
day  on  which  she  sings  she  is  not  obliged 
to  change  her  diet.  Here  is  something  that 
she  has  to  say  on  the  topic  : 

"  'The  days  on  which  I  sing,'  said  Mme. 
I^ehmann,  'I  vaiy  my  mode  of  life  hardly  a 
jot.  For  five  years  I  have  been  a  Vegeta- 
rian. What  a  glorious  word  for  those  who, 
like  myself,  can  utter  it  with  such  a  feeling 
of  exultation  1  My  shattered  nerves  had 
kept  me  for  a  long  time  ou  a  bed  of  illness. 
It  seemed  impossible  for  me  to  recover  from 
attacks  of  heart  palpitation,  dizziness  and 
feinting  spells. 

"  'Finally  Kugen  d' Albert  and  Professor 
Klindworth  recommended  me  to  become  a 
Vegetarian.  Though  I  had  a  kind  of  mys- 
terious repugnance  to  the  idea  of  giving  up 
my  rare  bee&teak,  to  which  I  had  become 

1899 


accustomed,  especially  in  America,  and 
feared  that  I  might  be  attacked  with  weak- 
ness in  consequence,  I  gathered  my  energies 
together  and  began  one  day  to  live  only  on 
vegetables  and  miit.  ,;  ., 

"  .'What  happened?  It  agreed  admirably 
with  me.  True,  the  first  two  or  three  days 
I  couldn't  get  rid  of  the  idea  that  I  didn't 
feel  satisfied.  But  by  the  fourth  day  I  was 
accustomed  to  it,  and  after  a  fortnight  the 
attacksof  dizziness  and  Minting  and  heart 
palpitation  had  ceased  I  was  a  free  being, 
cured  of  all  my  troubles,  which  had  been 
playing  me  such  bad  tricks. 

won't  bat  her  fellow  creatures. 

"  'In  addition  to  this  I  must  not  under- 
estimate the  satisfaction  I  feel  in  knowing 
when  I  sit  down  to  a  meal  that  I  am  not 
eating  my  fellow  creatures,  and  that  in 
order  to  satisfy  my  appetite,  no  harm  has 
come  them. 

"  'But  yon  wanttoknow  principally  what 
I  eat  and  drink  the  days  I  sing.  Whether 
I  sing  or  not  my  diet  remains  the  same.  I 
cany  oat  the  same  programme,  and  that 
suits  me  perfectly.  If  I  happen  to  be  at 
borne  I  rise  very  early — at  six  or  half-past 
seven  o'clock — go  into  my  garden  and  work 
there  among  my  plants  and  flowers. 

"  "If  the  weather  is  bad  I  write  a  good 
deal.  At  half-past  seven  I  drink  a  glass  of 
milk,  eat  a  little  rye  bread  and  now  and 
then  some  fruit. 

"  'Usually  I  dine  at  noon,  but  when  I 
sing  in  the  evenings,  an  hotir  later.  I  take 
a  plate  of  vegetable  or  rice  soup,  then  I  eat 
a  plate  of  vegetables.  At  fovu"  o'clock  I 
have  a  cup  of  milk,  and  at  seven  o,clock 
eat  some  green  salad,  a  couple  of  eggs    or 


d  by  Google 


cheese.  At  odd  intervals  during  the  day  I 
have  frnit.  Perhaps  twice  a  year  I  eat  ^h, 
but  I  don't  care  for  it  much,  and  only  take 
it  when  I  can  find  nothing  else. 

"  'With  one  plate  of  rice  taken  in  the 
afternoon  I  am  strong  enough  to  sing  Isolde 
and  to  stand  the  strain  of  all  the  great 
roles  which  last  until  midnight. 

"  'I  never  touch  alcoholic  drinks,  never 
am  thirsty,  and  I  have  a  fine  buoyant  feel- 
ing when  I  am  out  walking.  Every  morn- 
ing I  go  through  calisthenics,  take  a  swim 
when  I  can,  otherwise  cold  baths,  work  a 
great  deal  in  the  garden  and  indoors.  I  no 
longer  know  what  fatigue  is  since  I've  be- 
come a  Vegetarian  and  can  stand  a  great 
deal  more  both  mentally  and  bodily.  There- 
fore I  can  highly  recommend  this  mode  of 
life.  Simple  as  it  is,  its  eSect  upon  the 
sotil  is  most  stimulating.'  " 

The  Vegetarian  Review  two  years  ago, 
gave  the  following  from  Lili  Lehmann  as 
"A  Vocalist's  Testimony, "  Miss  Leh- 
mann is  quoted  as  saying : 

'  'I  had  been  very  nervous  for  a  number  of 
years,  and  thereftK^  wholly  withdrew  from 
society,  and  devoted  myself  solely  to  my 
art  and  very  straining  professional  calling. 
My  nervous  condition  so  got  the  upper 
hand,  that  I  suffered  for  days  and  nights 
from  dreadful  headaches  before  each  rote  I 
had  to  play ;  and  I  could  scarcely  breathe 
for  nervousness  before  singing.  In  short  I 
was  in  a  frightful  condition,  when  I  sud- 
denly became  affected  with  weakness  of  the 
heart,  and  suffered  for  several  years,  in 
spite  of  all  care  and  rest,  only  very  slowly 
recovering,  Bugen  d' Albert  and  Prof. 
Klind worth  had  previously  repeatedly  tirged 
me  to  become  a  Vegetarian,  but  as  I  had 
always  been  a  hearty  flesh-eater,  I  could 
not  make  up  my  mind  to  live  upon  vegeta- 
bles alone,  although  I  had  ever  eaten  largely 
both  of  vegetables  and  fruit.  Two  years 
ago,  however,  I  resolved  to  try  the  diet  for 
a  few  days.  The  first  two  days  I  seemed  to 
be  always  hungry'  and  never  satisfied,  bat 
after  another  couple  of  days  this  feeling  dis- 
appeared. In  a  fortnight  I  had  the  satis- 
foction  of  remarking  how  extraordinarily 
well  the  diet  suited  me.  My  fainting  fits 
ceased,  and  the  excitement  before  singing 

68 


equally  so  ;  for  I  made  a  ti  ial  at  a  beneV' 
olent  society's  concert  at  Kroll's,  and  found 
I  could  sing  with  perfect  quietness.  I  ex- 
perience the  remarkable  influence  of  the 
diet  upon  me  every  day,  and  am  heartily 
grateful  to  my  two  advisers,  before  men- 
tioned. I  feel  much  easier,  and  am  truly  a 
younger  person.  I  can  endure  far  more, 
and  feel  decidedly  in  every  way  much  better. 

"I  must  say,  however,  that  I  am  not 
quite  so  consistent  as  many.  Now  and 
again  I  may  take  meat-broth  with  barley, 
rice,  or  the  like ;  I  eat  vegetables  and 
much  fruit,  both  raw  and  stewed.  I  drink 
milk  instead  of  coffee  and  tea.  I  exper- 
ience, however,  not  the  least  thirst  either 
at  lunch  or  dinner.  For  months  ofben,  wiUt 
the  exception  of  a  cup  of  milk  iu  the  morn- 
ing and  afternoon,  I  drink  absolutely  nolk- 
ing. 

"I  am  doubly  delighted  about  the  Vege- 
tarian diet,  because  then  one  has  no  longer 
to  reflect  that  one  eats  the  oorpees  of 
animals  which  have  to  undergo  the  most 
horrible  torture  before  death,  and  that  is  au 
elevating  and  happy  feeling.  The  quieting 
influence  of  a  Vegetarian  diet  on  the  mind 
enables  us  to  believe  that  a  partially  Vege- 
tarian diet  would  be  of  the  greatest  service 
to  the  people,  since  sensuality  would  be 
lessened  and  drunkeness  checked. 

"Through  the  barbarity  with  which  an- 
imals are  treated,  and  which  by  flesh-eating 
is  always  increasing,  people  have  become 
dreadfully  brutalized:  and  this  raw  char- 
acter leads  always  to  further  crimes,  and 
excesses  having  horrible  results.  It  has 
been  proved  statistically  that  a  biE^er 
percentage  of  murders  are  commrtted  by 
butchers  than  by  any  other  class ;  probably 
because  they  are  continually  engaged  in  the 
cruel  occupation  of  slaughter.  Further,  it 
has  been  shown  that  criminals  of  all  kinds 
are  always  also  torturers  of  animals  ;  and 
in  this  relation,  unfortunately,  nothing  is 
being  done  to  educate  the  human  heart. 
Humanity  should  be  taught  in  schools,  and 
every  child  should  pledge  itself  never  to 
torture  an  animal,  but,  on  the  contrary,  to 
be  its  protector." 

Bands  of  Mercy  are  being  organized  in 
San  Francisco,  Cal.,  by  Miss  McGuire. 


d  by  Google 


PHYSIOLOGY  AS  TO  FOOD. 
By  Dr.  J.  Harvey  Lovell. 

Gxcept  in  the  selection  and  mastication 
of  onr  food,  the  processes  of  digestion 
and  assimilation  go  on  independent  of  oor 
own  will,  bnt  in  these  enough  mistalces 
occur  to  canse  much  misery.  Nature  pro- 
vides ample  guides  in  the  selection  of  food, 
bnt  the  influence  ot  custom,  heredity  and 
eiTooeona  habits  has  perverted  these  natural 
guides,  and  appetites  and  tastes  instead  of 
being  infallible,  have  become  in  most  cases 
vitiated  and  consequently  misleading. 
Hence  our  preferences  require  the  exercise 
of  impartial  judgment  by  the  exercise  of 
which  the  integrity  of  taste  and  appetite  may 
be  re-established  and  then  taste  and  appetite 
being  in  harmony  with  science  and  correct 
judgment,  will  be  unerring  guides  in  select- 
ing our  food. 

As  shown  in  a  previons  number  of  Our 
Postscript,  the  science  of  comparative 
anatomy  establishes  the  &ct  that  man  is 
naturally  a  grain,  frnit  and  nut  eating 
animal,  therefore  if  we  desire  to  conform  to 
nature  we  must  observe  this  fact  in  the 
selection  of  food. 

But  in  making  a  selection  from  grain, 
fruit  and  nuts,  it  is  important  that  these  be 
thoroughly  masticated,  and  as  many  per- 
sons have  imperfect  teeth,  artificial  masti- 
cation has  to  be  resorted  to,  especially  in 
the  case  of  grain  and  nuts,  which  should  be 
finely  ground  in  order  to  yield  their  valua- 
ble store  of  nutritive  elements.  Mastication 
even  with  well  pulverized  food  is  important 
in  order  to  thoroughly  mix  the  saliva  with 
the  food  and  thus  prepare  it  for  the  digestive 
process  in  the  stomach,  which  consists  of  a 
thorough  blending  of  it  with  the  gastric 
juice.  As  each  kind  of  food  provides  gas- 
tric juice  adapted  to  its  own  digestion,  a 
change  from  one  kind  of  food  to  another 
may  produce  an  impression  that  the  new 
1899 


kind  is  not  as  digestible  as  that  to  which 
the  stomach  has  been  accustomed,  so  that 
perseverance  in  a  change  of  diet  sufllciently 
long  to  enable  the  system  to  prepare  for  the 
new  habits  is  necessary.  Bnt  changing 
firom  an  unnatural  to  a  natural  food  soon 
provides  for  itself,  and  professional  people, 
vocalists,  public  speakers  and  business  men 
especially,  soon  find  great  relief  and  quickly 
experience  great  benefit  from  the  change. 

The  processes  of  digestion  and  also  of 
eliminatioa  are  greatly  aided  by  the  use  of 
whole  wheat  instead  of  white  flour  so  com- 
monly used  in  bread  making,  and  the  very 
prevalent  disease,  constipation,  is  overcome. 
So  important  is  it  that  all  the  elements  con- 
tained in  wheat  be  taken  that  to  assist  in 
providing  whole  wheat  Graham  floor,  that 
the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America  furnishes 
a  mill  to  be  driven  by  hand  or  other  power, 
by  which  the  bran  as  well  as  the  white  por- 
tion of  the  wheat  is  reduced  to  a  fine  pow- 
der, forming  a  flour  that  is  rich  in  nitrogen 
as  well  as  starch,  and  is  firee  from  the  ob- 
jection usually  raised  against  ordinary 
Graham  flour,  that  it  is  too  stimulating  in 
certain  conditions  of  the  mucous  membrane. 

Fortunately  the  same  mill  is  admirably 
adapted  to  nut  grinding,  so  that  it  supplies 
both  bread  and  (nut)  butter  to  its  oper- 
ator. Fruit,  fresh  and  ripe,  dried  or  canned, 
can  be  obtained  at  all  seasons  of  the  year, 
and  by  the  aid  of  recipes  supplied  gratui- 
tously in  the  pamphlet  relating  to  the  Vege- 
tarian Society  Mill,  a  trial  of  Vegetarian 
practice  can  be  made  with  every  prospect  of 
success.  The  superiority  of  Vegetarian  fare 
over  one  composed  of  flesh  meat  in  whole 
or  part,  will  soon  become  apparent. 

The  risk  of  getting  diseased  meat  as 
shown  by  the  recent  investigation  into  the 
beef  supply  of  thearmy  of  the  United  States 
and  the  fact  that  the  flesh  even  of  healthy 
animals  is  productive  of  those  diseases 
caused  by  a  superfluity  of  uric  acid,  rheu- 
matism, Bright's  disease,  headache  and 
various  nervous  disorders  should  induce  a 
fair  trial  of  the  Vegetarian  system. 


69 

d  by  Google 


iFOODHOME^GARDEfi 


THE   DUKHOBORS. 

Last  year  we  received  from  our  es- 
teemed friend  Mrs.  Southey.  of  London, 
England,  a  letter  setting  forth  the  condition 
of  the  persecuted  denomination,  the  Dnk- 
hobortsi.  who,  through  the  intercession  of 
friends,  had  obtained  permission  to  emigrate 
from  Russia,  at  their  own  expense,  to  escape 
the  penalties  from  which  many  of  them  had 
sttflFered  for  violation  of  the  miliUry  service 
laws.  Their  offence  was  refusing  on  con- 
sciencioos  grounds  to  perform  military  ser- 
vice, believing  that  to  bear  arms  for  the 
purpose  of  destroying  life  was  a  violation  of 
Christian  faith  and  practice,  and  contrary 
to  the  spirit  and  teaching  of  Christ.  In 
this  letter.  Mrs.  Sonthey  assured  us  that  the 
Dnkhobors  were  conscientiously  and  re- 
ligiously devoted  to  Vegetarianism,  being 
opposed  to  killing  in  every  form. 

We  passed  the  letter  over  to  our  friends 
of  the  Universal  Peace  Union  and  the  mat- 
ter has  been  especially  taken  up  by  the 
Society  of  Friends,  who  have  tendered  sub- 
stantial aid. 

The  Canadian  Government  has  been  in- 
duced to  make  these  people  a  large  grant  of 
land  in  the  vicinity  of  Yorkton,  Assiniboia 
District,  the  terminus  of  the  Manitoba  and 
Northwestern  Railroad,  at  which  place  con- 
tributions of  seeds,  implements  of  agricul- 
ture and  gardening,  and  such  other  articles 
as  will  be  useful  to  early  settlers  in  a  new 
country,  will  be  received  by  the  immigra- 
tion agent,  Mr.  Cerear,  at  Yorkton,  but  the 
bills  of  lading  should  be  made  out  in  favor 
of  Simon  Lazareff,  who  represents  the 
colony. 

From  an  article  by  Joseph  Elkinton,  pub- 
lished in  the  American  Friend  C3d  mo.  i6), 
we  learn  that  early  in  the  last  century,  three 
Cossacks  of  the  Don  obtained  a  copy  of  the 
Scriptures,  and  from  reading  it  came  to  the 
conviction  that  the  doctrines  and  practices 
70 


of  the  Greek  Church  did  not  represent  those 
of  the  New  Testament.  They  refused  mil- 
itary service  and  their  followers  underwent 
persecution.  In  1816,  Alexander  I  ad- 
mitted that  "all  measures  of  severity  ex- 
hausted upon  the  Spirit  wrestlers  daring  30 
years  np  to  tSoi  did  not  destroy  the  sect, 
but  more  and  more  multiplied  the  number 
of  its  adherents."  Nicholas,  with  less  pat- 
ience, transferred  these  people  from  the 
Crimean  to  the  Trans-Caucasus,  west  of 
Tiflis.  This  was  in  184.0-50.  Here  they 
were  subject  to  the  cruel  treatment  of  wild 
and  war-like  tribes,  but  they  transformed 
that  wildness  into  flourishing  colonies.  Be- 
ing an  industrious,  thrifty  people,  they 
submitted  to  the  military  service  law  for  a 
time,  bnt  through  the  exhortations  and  faith- 
fulness of  some  of  their  own  community  and 
the  encouragement  of  Prince  A.  D.  Hilkoff, 
they  became  more  loyal  to  their  principles 
as  opposed  to  war,  also  renounced  tobacco 
and  wine,  flesh-meat  and  every  kind  of  ex- 
cess, dividing  up  all  their  property  and  so 
supplying  the  needs  of  those  who  were  then 
in  want.  In  1895  they  burnt  their  fire-arms 
which  precipitated  a  general  attack  on  the 
part  of  the  government.  Four  hundred 
families  of  these  tuofiensive  peasants  in  one 
district  were  torn  from  their  prosperous 
holdings  and,  after  a  forced  sale  for  a  mere 
triflle,  banished  and  separated  among  the 
Georgian  villages.  Numerous  other  out- 
rages followed,  so  that  during  the  past  three 
years  their  numbers  have  been  reduced  from 
20,000  to  10,000.  half  of  their  number  hav- 
ing perished,  and  now,  about  half  of  the 
survivors  have  escaped  from  Russian  tyran- 
ny, and  about  4000  of  them  have  arrived  in 
Canada  and  are  forming  the  new  colony. 

Their  feitb  is  simple  :  it  consists  in   the 

beliefthat  the  Spirit  of  God  is  present  in  the 

soul  of  man  and  directs  him  by  its  word 

within   him.      They   lay  stress  upon   this 

May, 


DigiTi; 


d  by  Google 


inward  Christ  whose  coming,  teaching  and 
snfferii^^  are  falfilled  in  and  through  them 
by  living  oat  the  gospel  of  divine  love.  On 
their  arrival  at  Halifax,  N.  S.,  they  sang  a 
hymn  of  gratitnde  for  deliverance  which  re- 
minds one  of  the  Song  of  Miriam  on  a  sim- 
ilar occasion,  when  the  Israelites  had  es- 
caped from  their  pursuers  at  the  Red  Sea. 

"Their  Indnstrious,  abstemious  manner  of 
living,"  says  the  A/nerican  Friend^  "has 
made  them  a  remarkably  robust  looking 
people.  Many  of  the  men  are  six  feet  six 
inches  in  height  and  well  proportioned." 

Thus  in  the  central  part  of  the  American 
continent  a  Vegetarian  Colony  of  about  4000 
hardy,  industrious  people  is  being  planted, 
the  effect  of  which  must  be  largely  benefi- 
cial in  making  a  practical  demonstration  of 
the  capacity  of  Vegetarian  practice  to  build 
tip  a  large  thriving  Commonwealth. 

The  illnstrations  on  pages  79  and  80  have 
been  kindly  loaned  us  by  the  Friends' 
InUUigencer  and  American  Friend,  whose 
efforts  on  behalf  of  the  Dukhobots  ate 
worthy  of  high  commendation,  lot  the  en- 
lightenment of  mankind. 


HYDROPHOBIA. 

BV   G.  G.  HEID. 

ameaaie  full  or«chcaand  llli 


Their  henlih  would  oot  endure 
trttaej'  would  for  tbdrdilly  drink, 

Partake  of  waler  pure. 
Tbe;  muR  have  coffee,  milk  or  lea, 


sr  pure, 
leirdailjr  drink-. 


TbecblldreD,  too,  no  longer  car* 

They  doctor  II  if  Ith  cordlala  rare, 

If  luGh  ttaey  can  procure. 
Wilh  soda  or  with  temouade 

They  waul  to  Htl>fy 
Their  ihiru.  for  they  arc  much  afraid 

The  water  pure  lo  try. 
And  everybody  aeein*  to  tbink. 

Though  water  was  here  6rii, 
That  ll's  not  Bt  for  man  lo  drink 

Towniafy  blllhlrit. 

Key  Kcm  to  fear 


Porby 
Audi 


n  man'*  Uilrat  lo  attend 
1  yel  trCll  venlure  to  decli 

jiplteofalltbal'iHld, 


Ila  very  atrengtb  they  gnaw ; 
Bnt  none  ao  much  In  eTcry  plan 

A*  bydropboMa : 
Hot  bydrophla  prodaced 

By  rabid  canine'ibltea. 
These  animate  ao  much  abused. 

Canst  not  the  only  (rights. 

The  "fear  of  water"  aecms  10  be 

A  DnlTcnal  HI : 
^nd  e*'ry  where  this  dread  w*  see 

Tbe  mloda  of  penons  fill. 


Which  ev'ry  one  can  tell 
By  glrtng  it  a  trial  fair 

When  he  a  really  dry  ; 
And  if  kept  up.  no  one  wil 

A  Buballlate  lo  try. 


■v'ry where  we  find 


7> 

d  by  Google 


lF6o0HOrtE^GARbi 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


they  have  been  transformed  to  the  lovers  of 
peace  by  the  direct  effect  of  following  the 
Bible  teaching  id  their  daily  habits  of  life. 


REV,     HK 

*RT  8-  CUUBB.  Ediior. 

c),i=  SulacriplioD.  Jo 

ts..  faui  SulHcrliiUons    ti.»  •  J'"- 

For  ja'tocrtionjj 

B.    jJwijlineJ  >lD«r«Jon  Ji.oo. 
a.    PerfNire,fi>iMr,Sij,(Hrtilile, 

The  article  on  "Physiology  as  to  Food" 
by  Dr.  J  Harvey  Lovell  is  reprioted  as  No. 
4  of  "Our  Postscript."  Will  our  friends 
aid  us  in  the  circulation  of  tbtse  tracts  J 
livery  letter  sent  out  should  contain  one  at 
least. 


Our  census  returns  come  in  but  slowly. 
Why  do  not  more  Vegetarians  send  for 
blanks  to  aid  in  this  important  enumera- 
tion ? 


The  Journal  of  Zoophily  concludes  an  ar- 
ticle on  the  Armour  beef  scandal  as  follows : 
"We  think  that  those  who  partake  freely 
of  beef  in  these  days  are  running  a  great 
risk  of  injury  to  their  health." 


Canada,  by  a  liberal  policy  towards  the 
Dukhobors  has  secured  a  very  substantial 
addition  to  her  population.  Will  the  United 
States  make  the  Vegetarians  of  this  and 
other  countries  as  good  an  offer  ?  All  who 
desire  to  join  in  an  application  to  the  U.  S. 
for  a  grant  of  a  township  of  land  fijr 
a  Vegetarian  Colony  please  send  us  their 
names  and  state  where  they  would  like 
to  be  located. 


The  Dukhobors  will  certainly  require 
!tcliool  teachers  as  they  must  now  teach 
their  children  the  English  language.  A 
nice  chance  for  young  Vegetarian  ladies 
who  desire  to  be  well  employed. 


The  address  of  the  College  of  Psychical 
Sciences  advertised  on  page  5  (next  to  back 
of  cover)  should  be  changed  to  Syracuse, 
N.  Y.  and  that  of  the  College  of  Occult 
Forces  (on  the  same  page)  should  be  1130 
North  Kedzie  ave.,  Chicago. 

Mr.  Arthur  Haviland,  N.  Y.  writes: 
"There  is  a  good  chance  ofasnmmer  home 
being  opened  this  season  for  Vegetarian 
tioiirders  on  the  bill  country  north  of  N.  Y. 
City.  If  it  is  done  for  one  season,  I  should 
think  it  would  be  a  good  thing  to  keep 
ai^'uing   to   firmly   establish  it. " 


The  Morehead  (Kansas)  Searchlight  is 
publishing  a  series  of  articles  entitled  More- 
head  in  190S  in  which  the  use  of  artificial 
meat  is  referred  to  as  better  than  the  com- 
mon beef-steak.  Our  friends  need  not 
wait  till  1908  to  enjoy  artificial  meat.  It 
is  already  manu&ictured  and  in  use.  We 
had  some  at  the  Gospel  Help  Mission  else- 
where referred  to. 


The  Friend  has  several  articles  relating 
to  great  men:  Tolstoi,  Oken,  and  Agassiz 
written  in  such  a  manner  as  to  convey  the 
impression  that  abstaining  from  flesh  even 
for  a  day  is  an  act  of  self-denial!  Tons 
and  we  presume  to  other  Vegetarians,  it  is  a 
continual  joy  ard  would  require  a  sacrifice 
to  eat  flesh,  no  only  of  an  animal  but  of 
our  own  most  c       sh      feelings. 

The  Dukhobors  are  so  called  because  it  is  HAM  POISONING. 

Russia  for  "Spirit  Wrestlers."   Thedenom-  A  doctor  and&milyare  reported  by  the 

ination  has  existed  150  years.    It  originated  Boston   Post,  of  April,  17th  as  having  been 

with  the  warlike  don  Cossacks  &om  which  poisoned  by   eating  "canned  deviled  ham" 


72 


May, 

d  by  Google 


iMi^^diMmM 


ft 


Dr.  A.  G.  Tremblay  is  dead  aod  his  wife 
and  children  are  almost  Eatally  sick  aftei 
eating  this  "delicacy." 

PHILA.  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

The  April  meeting  was  held  on  tbe  20th 
at  1023  Foulkrod  street,  Frankford.  Sev- 
eral accessions  were  made  to  membership. 
Addresses  were  made  by  Rev.  H.  S.  Clubb, 
who  presided ;  by  Messrs.  Hanna  and  Cald- 
well, of  the  Gospel  Help  Mission;  Mr. 
Thomas  James,  of  Chicago,  who  has,  we 
hope,  come  to  remain  in  Philadelphia ;  Mr. 
Wilcox,  of  Frankford,  and  Sarah  Hall. 
Mr.  E.  P.  Metcalfe  fovored  the  meeting  by 
leading  at  the  organ,  and  "My  Country  'tis 
of  Thee"  was  sang  by  the  audience  all 
standing.  Mission  work  and  Vegetarian 
restaurants  were  discussed  and  a  cordial 
sentiment  of  unity  was  manifested.  We 
hope  our  friends  throughoHt  the  city  will 
endeavor  to  attend  these  monthly  meetings, 
as  practical  results  are  anticipated. 


FLESH  EATING  AND  CANCER. 

The  New  York  Herald  of  March  12,  pub- 
Ibhed  a  prominent  article  headed  "Too 
mticb  animal  food,  the  doctors  say."  It 
gives  statements  from  Drs.  Vemeuil,  of 
Paris,  and  R.  Williams,  of  London,  attrib- 
uting cancer  to  a  greedy  consumption  of 
meat,  in  fact,  regarding  meat  as  the  orig- 
inator of  that  terrible  disease.  We  know  a 
case  of  care  from  cancer  by  simply  abstain- 
ing from  flesh-meat.  The  deaths  from  can- 
cer in  England  have  increased  20,735  ^  y^^i 
since  1840,'and  the  annual  consumption  of 
flesh-meat  has  just  doubled  in  that  period, 
being  now  131  pounds  per  capita,  while  the 
deaths  from  cancer  are  four  and  a  half  times 
more  numerous.  The  article  concluded 
with  the  statement  that  "gout,  cancer  and 
liver  and  heart  troubles  would  be  much 
rarer  if  we  drank  less  and  ate  a  great  deal 
less  meat." 
1899 


HORSE  MEAT  IN  N.  Y.  AND  N.  J. 
TheA^rai  ForX; //i?ra/i/ of  March  12,  pub- 
lished a  description  of  the  slaughter-houses 
between  Jersey  and  Newark,  at  Kearney, 
where  horses  are  slaughtered.  It  also  states 
the  same  business  is  carried  on  at  Maspeth 
and  various  other  parts  of  greater  New 
York.  The  horse  meat  is  canned  or  made 
into  bolognas.  These  places  are  called 
"Horse  Factories"  and  "Bologna  Factor- 
ies." It  is  said  there  is  no  law  by  which 
these  factories  can  be  closed,  but  that  the 
sale  of  horse  meat  is  prohibited  by  law. 
The  canning  and  shipping  to  a  foreign 
market  is  not  prohibited  and  is  a  very 
profitable  business.  But  notwithstanding 
the  law,  the  product  can  be  seen  at  the 
saloons  that  keep  "free  lunch  counters"  in 
Newark.  The  Herald  gave  illustrations, 
showing  slaughter  houses,  etc.  We  have 
only  room  for 

A   TYPICAL  HORSE   BUTCHER. 


The  V.  S.  A.  has  achieved  a  good  point 
of  advantage  in  having  "butter  made  from 
nuts' '  placed  on  the  same  list  as  common 
butter  for  pound  rates.  See  page  2  of  cover. 

73 
Digitized  hy  Google 


WM.  D.  BREWER,  JR. 
Born  March  31,  18634  physically  slender 
and  delicate.  At  13  he  had  long  fever. 
Was  a  bright  scholar  at  Chancey  Hall,  pri- 
vate school,  and  entered  Harvard  Univer- 
sity  at  18.  Foot  years  at  the  regtdar  course 
and  three  years  at  the  law  school  and  then 
admitted  to  the  Massachusetts  Bar.  Was 
convenant  with  five  languages  including 
the  Rnssian.  Seven  years  ago  he  com- 
menced the  Vegetarian  practice  and  wa^ 
instrumental  in  the  re-establishment  of  the 
Boston  Vegetarian  Society  two  yean  ago. 
He  was  quite  a  student  and  a  musician. 
Frequently  favored  us  with  useful  selections 
and  occasional  original  contributions.  He 
resided  at  West  Newton,  but  went  with  hia 
mother  to  their  cottage  at  Center  Harbor, 
N.  H.  June  6th,  1398,  having  bleeding  at 
the  lungs  which  proved  &tal  Oct.  23,  1898. 
Wm.  D.  Brewer,  Sr.,  his  father,  writes  very 
affectionately  of  his  son  whom  we  always 
highly  esteemed  as  a  most  intelligent  cor- 
respondent and  zealous  member  of  the 
Vegetarian  Society  of  America, 

ULI  LEHMANN  IN  NEW  VORK. 
The  Sdmli^t:  American,  in  reporting  the 
proceedings  of  the  N.  Y.  State  Audobon 
Society  at  the  lecture  room  of  the  American 
Museum  of  Natural  History,  Mareh  23, 
states  that  "  the  great  singer  Madam  Lili 
Lehmanu  was  introduced  as  a  distinguished 
and  loyal  friend  of  birds,  and  she  made  an 
excellent  address  which  was  very  much  to 
the  point.  She  said  that  in  Europe  there 
were  many  societies  for  the  protection  of 
birds,  and  they  all  worked  in  harmony,  and 
any  person  could  become  a  member  of  those 
societies  upon  the  payment  of  a  nominal 
sum,  equivalent  to  two  or  threecents,  the 
main  purpose  being  to  enlist  all  kinds  of 
people  in  the  movement  for  the  protection 
of  birds.  She  said  that  she  was  sorry  to 
learn   that   there  were  no  places  in  Central 


Park  expressly  for  the  purpose  of  feeding 
birds.  She  had  eight  such  places  in  her 
garden  where  the  birds  may  come  and  be 
fed.  She  said  there  were  25,000,000  useful 
birds  slaughtered  annually  for  use  on 
women's  bonnets,  and  that  &nners  were 
already  suffering  from  it  and  that '  women 
enjoy  wearing  feathers  like  savages.' 
Flowers  and  ribbons  were  a  thoosand  times 
more  beautiful  and  more  becoming.  It  is 
the  duty  of  every  woman  to  battle  against 
this  grewsome  folly.  For  years  Madam 
Lehmann's  hats  have  not  had  feathers." 


SHALL  WK  UNITE? 
Organizations  for  the  promotion  of  health 
are  accumulating  with  great  rapidity.  Al- 
most every  health  journal  has  a  Chautauqua 
school  in  process  of  formation  while  some 
newspapers  notably  the  /nier  Ocean,  Chica- 
go, has  a  ' '  Home  Health  Club  of  large  pro- 
portions. The  Hundred  Year  Club,  the 
Ralston  Club  and  many  others  are  flourish- 
ing institutions.  In  tmion  there  is  strength. 
Shall  this  strength  be  secured? 


A  LARGE  VEGETARIAN  COLONY. 
The  Canadian  Government  has  granted 
a  township  consisting  of  thirty  six  square 
miles  of  rich  Manitoba  soil  at  Winuepeg  to 
the  Dukhobortsi  for  their  Vegetarian  Col- 
ony and  erected  huts  upon  it  to  accommo- 
date 5000  immigrants.  Twenty-five  hun- 
dred are  already  on  the  ground  and  others 
are  on  the  way  that  will  occupy  the  remain- 
ing huts.  The  Friends  in  Philadelphia 
have  already  raised  $5000  to  aid  these  peo- 
ple and  the  cost  of  their  transportation  &om 
England  was  paid  by  Friends,  Dunkers  and 
Memonites  in  this  country  and  Friends  in 
England  paid  their  transportation  from 
Russia  to  England.  The  Dukhobors  now 
ask  for  a  loan  which  they  intend  to  pay 
back  after  they  have  raised  and  harvested 
enough  to  do  so. 

May, 

Di8ii,28db,  Google 


SURPRISE     PARTY     BIRTHDAY 
SUPPER. 


Salad:    Ce1«7  on  Lcltnce.  (a) 
Slewed  Fill. 

A    Quick    Supper. 

MBNU. 

Piitd  Sweet  poUioa. 

Canoed  aiHdg  Bennii.  Walercnw  Salnd.  (b) 

Corn    Cakea,   (from  canned  corn,) 

CauDBl   Peas.  Prench  Fried  Polatoet. 

Balad;    Dandclloii,  with  Rarik  (c) 

Canned  Apricoti. 

friend  Me  oflheae  three  aalads  and  he  nid  nf 

dellciou  aalad." 


(»t  ■ 
(111  ■ 
(c)    "Bjjonl  I  did  not  know  yon  could    make   auch  ■ 

The  above  menus  were  used  on  the  oc- 
casion of  Mrs.  Haviland's  Birthday,  March 
9th,  1899.  The  first  was  gotten  up  early 
in  the  evening  to  which  Mrs.  Haviland  had 
invited  ten  people.  Mr.  Haviland  arranged 
a  surprise  party  of  twenty  more  at  8  P.  M. 
In  regard  to  the  evening  refreshments  Mr. 
Haviland  writes : 

'■  I  prepared  sandwiches  of  i.  olives  with 
capers.  2.  Cheese.  3.  Peanut  Butter.  4. 
Dates  with  Brazil  nuts.  No.  t  was  said  to 
be  delicious  and  no.  4  "grand."  The 
salad  was  a  la  Maiguerite,  containing  any- 
thing that  was  good,  a  little  tart,  quite  re- 
fieshing,  and  so  good  that  they  asked  for 
more.  Then  cream  and  cakes.  The  com- 
pany was  selected  for  goodfellowshtp  and 
musical  ability  and  they  amnsed  themselves 
immensely.  Brunswick  was  in  good  form, 
Scott  and  C.  A.  Montgomery  were  here. " 
RECIPES. 

Prom  Good  Heatlk. 

Stewed   Peanuts. — Shell    the  raw  nuts, 
and  blanch  by  pouring  boiling  water  over 
them.     After  they  have  stood  a   few  min- 
i«99 


utes,  the  skins  can  be  easily  rubbed  off- 
Add  to  a  pint  of  the  blanched  nuts  about 
two  qtiarts  of  water,  pnt  them  into  a  bean 
pot;  heat  to  boiling;  then  place  in  a  slow 
oven,  and  cook  for  nine  or  ten  hours. 
When  done,  they  should  be  soft,  mealy, 
and  rich  with  juice.  No  seasoning  excfept 
a  little  salt  will  be  required. 

White  Com  Meal  Cake. — Pour  one  cup 
of  scalding  milk  very  gradually  over  one- 
half  cupful  of  white  com  meal.  Stir  it  un- 
til perfectly  smooth  and  thoroughly  mixed, 
add  I  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  ponr  it  into  a 
buttered  pan  to  the  depth  of  half  an  inch. 
Bake  it  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Split  it  open  and  spread  with  butter. 
There  will  be  hardly  more  than  two  crusts, 
which  those  who  enjoy  Southern  hoecake 
will  find  delicious.  Be  sure  that  the  pan 
is  large  enough  so  that  it  will  spread  thin. 

Strawberry  Fritters. — Use  large  berries, 
washed,  stemmed  and  placed  on  a  cloth  to 
dry.  Make  a  batter  with  two  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  together :  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut ;  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
scant  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  mixed 
in  about  a  cup  of  flour.  Drop  in  the  batter 
two  or  three  berries  at  a  time,  taking  out  at 
once  in  a  large  spoonful  to  cook  quickly  in 
very  hot  oil.  Send  to  the  table  hot  and 
dusted  thickly  with  powdered  sugar. 

Oyster  Plant  Soup. — Scrape  twelve  good 
sized  roots  of  oyster  plants  or  sabify  and 
throw  them  at  once  into  cold  water.  Cut 
into  thin  slices,  cover  with  i  quart  of  water 
and  cook  gently  for  an  hour.  Add  i  quart 
of  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  butter  and 
seasoning.     Serve  with  crackers. 

75 


d  by  Google 


NUTCOA   IN  MAINE. 

I  wish  to  say  that  since  using  Nntcoa  for 
shortening  I  find  it  superior  to  cow's  batter 
in  two  ways,  it  requires  less  and  gives  a 
fine  rich  taste  to  entire  wheat  flonr  gems, 
and  to  sweet  bread  made  thereirom,  and  in 
piecrust  it  bakes  white  instead  of  brown  as 
when  shortened  with  lard. — H.  A.  Brad- 
bury, Norway,  Maine. 

MAKING    MALT    AT   HOME. 

W.  D.  Chapman,  Tampa,  Florida,  asks 
for  working  instructions  for  the  home  pro- 
duction of  malt  and  malted  grains.  The 
usual  process  of  making  malt  is  to  soak 
barley  in  water  and  spread  it  out  on  a  floor 
for  about  9  days  or  until  it  sends  out 
sprouts.  Then  spread  it  in  bake  pans  and 
put  it  in  the  oven  to  bake  until  dry,  mb  off 
the  sprouts  and  sweet  malt  is  the  result. 
A  little  experience  will  be  the  best  gnide  as 
"to  the  time  and  degree  of  heat  required. 
We  have  had  no  experience  with  matting 
nuts  or  other  seeds. 

PEA  AND  BEAN  FLOUR. 

A  correspondent  sends  the  following: 
"Pea  and  bean  fiour  are  kept  on  sale  in 
Europe  as  much  as  oatmeal  or  pearl  barley. 
They  can  be  used  to  give  "body"  to  soups 
and  in  other  ways.  They  do  not  require 
very  long  cooking,  being  in  this  matter  a 
great  improvement  over  the  unground  peas, 
PORTABLB    Bean    Soup 

Is  also  frequently  on  sale,  and  forms  a 
part  of  the  soldiers  "rations"  in  some 
countries.  A  small  brick  of  it  can  be 
quickly  made  into  soup  with  some  hot 
water.  They  are  useful  in  many  house- 
holds for  extempore  meals  and  for  hunters 
and  picnic  parties. 

Other  Portable  Soups. 

Those   I   have  seen  were  made  of  pea  or 
bean  fiour,  dried  and    desecated  tomatoes 
and  other  vegetables,  seasonings  etc.  com- 
bined into  a  brick  by  the  use  of  animal  fat. 
76 


All  the  advantages  could  be  obtained  by 
substituting  some  vegetable  oil  at  the  time 
of  cooking  with  the  advantage,  besides 
'  cleanliness  and  wholesomness,  of  being  in 
a  form  to  keep  indefinitely ;  there  being  no 
animal  product  to  become  stale  or  rancid. 
Corn  Starch  No.    i. 

Farmers  can  if  they  choose  have  always 
a  supply  of  com  starch  without  paying  for 
one  or  two  pounds  the  price  many  of  them 
receive  for  a  whole  bushel  of  com  in  their 
local  market.  The  requisites  are  field  com 
in  the  "milk"  state,  an  abundance  of  clean 
water,  and  sunshine." 

Pea  and  bean  fiour  can  be  made  with  a 
Vegetarian  Society  Mill. 

From  Ma;  YaCn,  Supt.  Pood  Reform  DepartmCDt  of  tite 
world's  W,  C.  T.  U. 

WHOLE  WHEAT-MEAL  BREAD. 

Good  bread  has  snch  an  important  influ- 
ence on  the  health  of  the  nation,  that  all 
interested  in  its  welfare  should  use  every 
effort  to  procure  the  general  use  of  the 
whole-meal  bread,  which  is  alone  worthy 
of  being  called  the  "  staff  of  life." 

The  utilization  of  the  whole  grain  would 
almost  double  our  resources.  Only  75  lbs. 
of  white  flour  is  usually  obtained  fr«m  100 
lbs.  of  wheat,  whilst  the  25  lbs.  rejected 
are  most  valuable,  as  they  contain  a  large 
proportion  of  the  substances  which  form 
brains,  nerves,  bones  and  teeth.  One 
pound  of  whole-meal  contains  119  grains 
of  valuable  mineral  matter,  whilst  a  pound 
of  white  flour  only  contains  49  grains.  Ex- 
perience proves  that  a  pound  of  whole 
wheat  finely  ground  and  made  into  unfer- 
mented  bread  will  satisfy  hunger  better 
than  two  pounds  of  over  fermented  bread. 

Finger  Rolls. — Whip  up  a  thin  dough 
with  a  fork  or  spoon,  sifting  in  wheat-meal 
till  it  becomes  quite  stiff.  Knead  well  and 
rollout  thin,  leave  till  nearly  dry,  then  work 
into  a  roll,  i}4  in.  diameter  ;  cut  into  3  inch 
length,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


May, 

d  by  Google 


*r 


THE  AROMA  STRAWBERRY. 
The  Southwest  a  semi-monthly  fruit  asd 
fiirm  paper,  thirty-two  large  folio  pp.,  de- 
votes a  whole  number,  March  5th,  1899,  to 
the  Strawberry,  calling  it  "  a  special  Straw- 
berry number."  The  information  it  con- 
tains is  invaloable  to  all  who  grow  straw- 
berries either  for  home  consumption  or  for 
market.  Its  illustrations  are  numerous. 
We  copy  one  of  the  Aroma  Strawberry  one 
of  the  best  new  berries.  It  is  given  about 
its  natural  size  and  is  highly  spoken  of. 


Tju  Southwest  IS  published  at  Springfield, 
Mo.,  locts.  single  copy  and  75  cts  a  year. 
It  says  truly  ' '  the  greatest  drawback  now 
to  the  Strawberry  indastry  is  the  transpor- 
tation and  distribution.  Transportation 
companies  conduct  their  business  too  mnch 
on  the  theory  that  they  are  sure  to  get  the 
fruit  to  carry  even  if  they  take  the  lion's 
share,  sometimes  all,  for  transportation. 
By  reason  of  this  short  sighted  policy  they 
cmtaii  the  output  and  very  much  retard  an 
industry  they  would  do  well  to  foster." 
This  remark  applies  with  equal  force  to  the 
peanut  butter  and  all  similar  industries 
1899 


RDEN 


where  the  producers  desire  to  sell  as  direct 
as  possible  to  consumers. 

EARLY   STRAWBERRIES. 

Strawberries  were  30  cts.  a  box  the  first 
week  in  April  in  Philadelphia,  but  they 
were  small  berries.  Why  do  not  the  grow- 
ers of  early  strawberries  in  the  South  grow 
improved  varieties  and  thus  enibrce  a  de- 
mand? Large  strawberries  at  30  cts.  a  box 
would  create  a  great  demand  even  in  April. 
GROWN   IN  HAWAIIAN  ISLANDS. 

The  soil  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands  is  of  a 
very  rich  volcanic  nature  and  nearly  all  the 
plants  and  trees  of  the  tropical  and  temper- 
ate zones  may  be  grown  on  it,  but  only  a 
small  portion  of  the  land  is  tuider  cultiva- 
tion. When  irrigation  is  perfected  there  is 
scarcely  a  limit  to  the  productive  capabili- 
ties of  the  islands. 

Citrus  fruits,  oranges,  lemons,  limes  and 
grape  fruits  can  be  grown,  ripening  in  time 
to  supply  the  deficiency  of  the  California 
market  when  that  gives  out.  All  vegeta- 
bles, breadstuSs,  mangoes,  dates,  figs, 
pomegranates,  mulberries,  strawberries, 
guavas  and  cocoanuts  grow  in  profusion. 
There  are  hundreds  ofacresof  land  which 
might  be  used  for  cocoanut  groves  with 
great  success.  Thousands  of  acres  are 
covered  with  guavas  in  the  wild  state, 
which  are&Ilingto  the  ground  ungathered. 
The  fruit  makes  a  fine  jelly  and  United 
States  capital  might  make  guava  jelly  fac- 
tories profitable. 

Celery  is  grown  if  the  proper  soil  is  se- 
lected. That  this  vegetable  thnves  in  a 
warm  climate  was  proved  in  Southern  Cal- 
ifornia, where  five  years  ago  not  enough 
was  produced  to  supply  the  home  market, 
but  now  celery  raising  is  a  great  industry. 


77 


Digitized  hy  Google 


Fnin  MUa  Mbit  !■  Mlddlctoo 

OLIVE    CULTURE  IN  CALIFORNIA. 

"  An  olNe  ordiard  i*  a  gold  nine  on  the  tnoe  of  Uw 
earth."— /teHaiK  Proveti. 

It  is  only  within  comparatively  recent 
yeais  that  the  tme  value  of  the  olive  in 
California  has  come  to  be  appreciated. 
Trees  planted  a  century  ago  had  long  anf- 
ered  neglect.  The  beauty  and  profit  of 
olive  culture  had  not  yet  been  demonstrated 
to  the  new  colonists.  Then  came  achange. 
Capitol  awoke  to  the  fact  that  in  this  cli- 
mate conld  be  raised  a  frnit  superior  in  size 
and  flavor  to  the  Italian  importations. 
Care  of  the  grand  old  trees,  many  of  them  a 
century  old  and  still  bearing,  began  to  take 
the  place  of  neglect ;  new  olive  plantations 
sprang  np  ;  the  indnstry  assumed  a  definite 
business  aspect ;  until  to-day  the  growth  of 
the  olive  on  the  Pacific  slope  is  of  enough 
importance  to  canse  the  European  produc- 
ers grave  apprehension. 

Italy  produces  annually  seventy  million 
gallons  of  olive  oil ;  the  market  value  of 
this  oil  in  Italy  is  not  less  than  one  hun- 
dred and  twenty  million  dollars,  and  that 
means  more  money  than  the  value  of  all 
the  wheat  exports  of  the  United  States  in 
1883,  and  twice  the  value  of  the  wheat  ex- 
ports of  1888. 

The  demand  for  pure  olive  oil  is  increas- 
ing, and  the  consumption  of  the  California 
product  will  become  greater  when  the 
American  people  are  educated  to  the  foct 
that  every  bottle  of  alleged  olive  oil  im- 
ported to  this  country  is  adulterated  fi-om 
forty-five  to  ninety-five  per  ct. 

Pore  olive  oil  and  ripe  olives  pickled  are 
most  wholesome  and  palatable  articles  of 
fix>d.  Those  whose  chief  experience  of  the 
olive  is  the  large  imported  berry,  pickled 
green  and  fit  only  to  be  used  as  a  condi- 
ment, know  little  of  the  value  of  the 
ripe  olive  as  food,  nutritious  as  meat  and 
always    delicious.     Often  the  Spanish  and 

78 


ItalUQ  peasants  make  a  regular  meal  of  a 
handful  of  dried  olives  and  a  piece  of  bread, 
and  an  excellent  meal  it  is.  For  medicinal 
purposes  pore  olive  oil  is  now  fonnd  super- 
ior to  cod-liver  oil,  being  at  the  same  time 
palatable  and  free  from  subsequent  nausea- 
ting effects.  To  quote  an  eminent  physi- 
cian :  "It  reconstructs  the  tissues  under- 
going waste,  and  by  its  nutritious,  food-like 
properties  sustains  without  unnatural  stim- 
ulation and  repairs  without  disturbance  to 
the  vital  forces." 

Five  hundred  olive  trees  were  planted  at 
San  Fernando  Mission  in  California  abont 
the  year  1800.  There  are  now  left  four 
hundred  and  fifty.  In  1881  the  trees  were 
severely  pruned,  the  branches  being  entire- 
ly lopped  off  and  made  into  firewood. 
They  commenced  bearing  again  the  second 
year  after  being  pruned,  and  the  crop  grad- 
naly  increased,  so  that  it  now  amounts 
to  upwards  of  eighteen  tons  annnally.  Ac- 
cording to  tradition,  gigantic  olive  trees 
yet  seen  around  Tivoli  were  already  old 
when  Romulus  traced  with  a  plow  the  wall 
of  Rome.  The  old  olives,  untouched  by 
vandal  invaders,  respected  by  the  hurri- 
canes of  centuries,  are  there,  covering  near- 
ly an  acre  of  ground  each,  vigorous  and 
productive  as  in  the  days  of  Christ. 

The  average  life  of  the  tree,  however,  is 
believed  to  be  two  hundred  and  fifty  years 
— ^which  is  long  enough.  Production  in- 
creases until  the  age  of  forty  or  fifty  years. 
It  remains  then  abont  the  same  frpm  year 
to  year,  if  properly  managed,  with  a  per- 
ceptible improvement  in  the  oil. — G^M-ge 
Eakins  in  Forest  Leaves. 


Plant  Hubbard  Squash,  as  it  is  equal  to 
sweet  potatoes  and  of  a  finer  flavor  than 
common  squash  for  pies.  It  is  not  as 
common  in  the  pastern  Markets  as  it 
should  be. 

May, 


d  by  Google 


P  DUKHOBOR  WOMEN  AND  CHILDREN  AT  HALIFAX.  FKBRUARV  17, 1899. 


GATHKRING  S 


d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  NUT  BUTTER. 


The  Nul  Butter  of  the  Vegetarian  Society 
is  made  in  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  and 
is  free  from  all  adulteration.  No  water,  no 
salt  and  no  preservative  chemicals  are  used 
in  its  preparation.  It  is  therefore  called 
PDRB  because  it  is  pitrb.  Nothing  but  the 
best  of  nut  meats  are  used  in  its  man- 
ufacture. Nut  Butter  makes  dainty  sand- 
wiches for  lunches,  picnics,  afternoon  teas, 
etc.  It  is  also  fine  for  flavoring  cake, 
gravy  or  salad  dressing. 

The  following  testimonials  have  been  re- 
ceived from  those  who  are  continually  using 
the  Butter : 

We  do  like  your  nut  food  very  much. — 
Miss  Lilyan  Richards,  33  W.  34th  St.,  New 
York  City. 

The  Peanut  Butter  I  have  from  you  is 
excellent.  — Mrs.  S.  A.  Albright,  60  E. 
Ellis  Street,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

Enclosed  find  $6.00  for  one  dozen  quart 
jars  of  Peanut  Butter.  I  know  by  the  can 
I  had  it  will  be  satisfactory. — G.  G.  Gibbs, 
Vail,  N.  J. 

The  Peanut  Butter  is  fine,  and  how  much 
we  enjoy  it.  I  do  not  see  how  you  can 
afford  to  sell  it  for  that  money.  There  are 
lots  of  Peanut  Butter  sold  here,  but  we  pre- 
fer getting  it  from  you,  as  then  we  know  it 
is  absolutely  pure  and  clean. — Mrs.  Anna 
Witkins,  937  S  Street,  N.  W.,  Washing- 
ton, D.C. 

The  Peanut  Butter  came  all  safely  and  I 
think  it  by  far  the  best  that  I  have  had  and 
shall  patronize  thee  in  the  future,  when 
these  three  jars  are  empty.  I  have  a  broth- 
er-in-law who  is  using  Nut  Butter  and  will 
write  to  him  to  send  and  try  thy  make.  He 
has  been  a  strict  Vegetarian  over  thirty 
years.     No  doubt  he  will  want  some   from 


thee.  Like  myself,  he  prefers  the  pure 
article. — Mrs.  R.  H.  Passmore,  628  South 
Walnut  Street,  West  Chester,  Pa. 

The  Butter  is  put  tip  in  pint  and  quart 
air-tight  glass  cans  and  if  kept  in  a  cool 
place  will  keep  good  indefinitely.  Also  in 
half-pint  glass  jars  which  keep  good  as 
long  as  so  small  a  quantity  is  required  to  be 
kept.  For  distant  shipment,  pint  and  quart 
cans  are  best. 

*    *    liricce.   -   - 

^uie  peanut  JSunet. 
For  t  small  glass,  -  -  15  cents. 
"  I  pint  can,  -  -  30  cents. 
"  I  quart  can,  -  -  -  60  cents. 
"  13  pint  cans,  -  -  -  $3.00. 
"    12  quart  cans,         -        -  6.00. 

Dure  Blmoitl)  JSuttet. 

For  I  small  glass,         -        -   35  cents. 

"    I  pint  can,  -        -      65  cents. 

"    iquartcan,  -        -       $1-25- 

"    13  pint  cans,       -        -         .    7.50. 

NUT  CHEESE  is  the  same  price  as 

Almond  Butter. 

Other  kinds  of  Nut  Butter  made  to  order. 

These  prices  are  about  half  the  retail 

prices  usually  charged  for  the  similar  goods 

by  the  regular  grocery  trade.     We  prefer  to 

sell    direct     to    cooBumers.       For    orders 

amounting  to  one  dollar  and  upward  we 

supply  consumeis  free  of  charge  to  any  of 

the  railroad  stations  to  which  such  packages 

are  taken'in  baggage  cars.       Orders  should 

be  accompanied  by  check  or  money  order. 

and  the  name  of  the  railroad  station  near 

Philadelphia  where  they  are  to  be  called  for. 

For    more    distant    places    state   whether 

Adams  or  the   United   States   Express   is 

preferred.  The  same  express  rate  is  charged 

for  butter  made  from  nuts  as  for  common 

dairy  butter. 


BBOrcaa  ^be  IDcflctarian  Societ'g  of  Hmccica, 

1023  FOUt.KROD  STREET,  STATION  F.  PHILA..  PA. 

.db,  Google 


db,  Google 


Vol.  Ill,  Nhw  Seribs,  No.  29.  JUNE,  1899.  Whole  Ndmbhr  102. 

SARA  THACKER. 


MRS  SARA  THACKER,  the  writer 
oi  Logos  of  the  New  Dispensation  of 
Timet  is  a  Vegetarian  of  very  re- 
markable experience.  Bom  in  California, 
but  left  that  state  when  quite  young,  and 
retnmed  after  eighteen  year's  absence,  dur- 
ing which  time  she  had  done  considerable 
commercial  traveling,  she  concluded  to 
'  'solve  the  problem  of  life. ' '  Although  her 
edacation  has  been  chiefly  acquired  by  her 
own  unaided  efforts,  she  had  been  a  school 
teacher  many  years.  This  studying  alone 
became  a  confirmed  habit  and  led  event- 
ually to  her  adopting  the  life  of  a  hermit. 
She  determined  to  live  the  noblest  life  pos- 
sible according  to  her  highest  ideal.  Prom 
early  childhood  she  possessed  remarkably 
clear  perception  and  sometimes  could  see 
visions  of  beautiful  flowers,  birds  and 
people  amid  scenes  of  loveliness,  so  that 
her  ideality  was  of  an  exalted  and  pure 
nature.  If  in  trouble,  she  would  go  to  bed, 
cover  herself  nearly  all  over,  forget  all  her 
trouble  and  float  away  to  these  charming 
places  or  bring  these  scenes  to  her  and  after 
a  little  while  would  get  up  rehashed  and 
ready  for  her  daily  duties.  "  So  natural," 
sbs  sa}rs,  "was  this  second  sight  to  me  that 
I  thought  it  a  common  birthright  to  all 
individuals  until  I  was  25  years  old,"  but 
on  reading  up  on  the  subject  she  concluded 
that  clairvoyance  was  a  natural  faculty  be- 
longing to  all  human  beings,  but  at  present 
1899 


undeveloped  in  most  people.  Her  book, 
Tfi£  Logos,  gives  much  of  her  religious  ex- 
perience but  we  have  most  to  do  with  her 
dietetic  practice,  as  a  part  of  her  efforts  to 
attain  the  ideal  life : 

It  seemed  that  evny  effort  I  made  to 
carry  out  my  thoughts  increased  my 
strength.  I  had  alroidy  dropped  flesh 
meat  eating,  and  I  felt  a  greater  soul  power 
from  the  efforts  of  putting  it  aside.  At  that 
time  I  often  took  my  meals  at  restaurants, 
and  when  I  would  sit  down  at  the  table  I 
would  mentally  say  to  myself,  "No  dead 
thing  shall  enter  my  mouth.  I  shall  feast 
on  something  else  and  let  a  corpse  alone." 

A  little  while  after  this  beautifid  Truth 
of  Being  was  brought  to  my  mind  I  conld 
not  swallow  flesh  meat.  I  had  never  eaten 
much,  but  owing  to  the  common  practice  of 
having  everything  on  the  table  saturated 
with  the  products  of  meat,  I  had  eaten  a 
little  all  my  life  up  to  this  time.  I  bad  al- 
ways believed  (&om  a  soul  sense)  that  it 
is  contrary  to  the  highest  good  of  man  to 
kill  animals  and  to  eat  their  flesh;  and 
further,  that  it  was  not  just  or  right  to  cut 
short  a  life,  no  matter  how  inferior  it  be,  in 
order  to  feed  and  pamper  ourselves. 

But  I  had  never  met  but  two  or  three  per- 
sons in  all  my  life  up  to  that  time  to  cor- 
roborate my  belief,  and  they  wrae  too  timid 
to  seldom  mention  the  &ct.  Neither  was  I 
strong  enough  to  boldly  live  out  my 
thoughts  in  this  respect  until  I  leaned  the 
Truth  of  Being,  and  found  that  the  injunc- 
tion, "Thou  ^It  not  kill,"  has  a  spirit  as 
well  as  a  letter.  -  In  the  books  that  I  was 
reading  I  recognized  a  few  others  who  had 


vLiOOgk 


abandoned  flesh  meat  eating.  And,  O, 
what  a  joy  it  was  to  me  to  know  that  a  few 
true  hearts  in  the  world  could  and  did  live 
above  the  horrible  practice  of  cutting  short 
the  lives  of  lowly  creatures  and  then  feast- 
ing: on  their  corpses.  This  Vegetarian  idea 
was  in  harmony  with  my  soul,  and  I  never 
tasted  flesh  meat  again.  I  resolved  I  wonld 
face  the  world  with  strong,  clean  thoughts 
of  justice  and  truth,  or  not  at  all.  No 
blood  should  ever  again  pass  my  lips. 

When  the  nature  of  mind  is  understood, 
a  person  will  be  as  horrified  to  eat  the  dead 
fl^  of  any  animal  as  he  would  now  be  to 
eat  the  corpse  of  a  human  being.  The  eat- 
ing of  flesh  meat  blinds  the  soul. 

tt  in  slD  r 
!r  life. 


In  the  dead  flesh  is  incorporated  the  fear 
and  the  terrors  of  death  through  which  the 
animal  passes  when  it  is  butchered.  These 
continue  in  the  vital  spirit  of  the  animal 
which  does  not  immediately  perish  when 
separated  from  its  body,  but  remains  some- 
time in  the  invisible  atmosphere.  For  a 
time  there  remains  a  mental  connection 
between  the  vital  spirit  of  the  animal  and 
the  consumer  of  its  flesh ;  hence  sorrow  and 
all  the  passions  are  intensified  in  those  who 
eat  the  flesh. 

Vapors  arise  from  such  practices  and 
make  clouds  on  the  mind. 

There  is  enongh  in  this  world  lor  all — 
enough  of  eve^thing  for  all  beings  and 
creatnres.  Do  you  telieve  in  justice?  If 
so,  suppose  you  say  to  yourself,  "AH 
creatnres  on  this  earth  have  the  same  right 
to  existence  and  to  the  enjoyment  of  exist- 
ence as  I  have.  I  do  not  want  their  pleas- 
ures, and  I  do  not  want  them  to  drink  my 
sorrows.  I  want  simply  my  own,  and  I  am 
perfectly  content  to  rob  no  one."  "I  never 
want  happiness  that  gives  another  pain.  I 
wish  not  happiness  from  others — only  hap- 
piness out  of  the  bosom  of  the  great  ALL 
which  comes  like  the  red  flowers  of  the 
oleander." 

"No  Bock*  lh«t  nii(e  the  nlley  IV«e. 

To  alaDghter  I  condemn  ; 
Taughl  by  tbe  power  that  pities  ne. 


"Enjoy  and  let  others  enjoy.  Live  and 
let  live.  Do  more.  Live  and  help  live.  Do 
to  beings  below  you  as  yuu  would  be  done 
by  beings  above  you . ' ' 

Her  experience  as  a  hermit  living  alone 
in  a  cave  and  more  recently  in  a  log  cabin 
on  a  government  homestead,  and  her  estab- 
lishment of  a  college  near  Applegate, 
Placer  County,  California,  on  a  Vegetarian 
basis  and  much  information  as  to  her  phil- 
osophy and  teaching,  her  curative  methods 
and  her  methods  of  living  a  purer  life,  are 
all  well  set  forth  in  The  Logos,  which  must 
be  read  to  aSbrd  a  correct  idea  of  the  kind 
of  life  she  has  attained  and  to  which  she 
desires  to  conduct  her  pupils.  Her  college 
grounds  consist  of  forty  acres  in  proximity 
to  the  Post  Office  and  i6o  acres  a  quarter  of 
a  mile  away  over  the  hill,  or  one  mile  by 
the  road.  The  grounds  are  beautifully 
located  and  afibrd  the  basis  of  what  may 
grow  into  an  important  educational  center 
where  the  ideal  Christian  life  shall  be  prac- 
tically taught  and  the  common  evils  and 
vulgar  errors  and  fleshly  habits  of  the 
world  overcome. 


DIAMOND,  THE  CENTENARIAN. 

In  a  series  of  articles  on  "How  to  Live  a 
Century,"  by  B.  F.  Richards,  in  The  Signs 
of  the  Times,  Oakland,  California,  of  Feb- 
ruary 33,  1899,  it  is  related  that: 

There  is  a  man  living  in  San  Francisco 
who  is  a  fair  sample  of  what  the  body  will 
do  if  we  keep  it  clean,  feed  it  properly,  and 
give  it  pure  water  to  drink.  I  have  the 
pleasuie  of  meeting  and  conversing  with 
this  aged  gentleman  daily  while  he  is  eating 
his  meats  at  the  Helping  Hand  and  Medical 
Mission  in  San  Francisco.  And  I  do  not 
see  how  I  can  bestow  a  greater  &vor  on  the 
readers  of  this  article  than  by  giving  in  his 
own  words  his  method  of  keeping  his  body 
in  perfect  health,  even  at  the  remarkable 
age  of  nearly  103  years,  and  by  also  giving 
his  picture,  taken  when  65  and  I03  years  of 
age  respectively.     (Pictures  on  ^%igt  95.) 

Jane, 

Dbi-zsdbyGoOgIC 


He  says:  "My  name  is  Goddard  Bzekiel 
Dodge  Diamond.  My  father's  family  rec- 
ord showed  that  I  was  born  in  Plymouth, 
Massachusetts,  the  first  day  of  May,  1796. 
My  parents  were  Joseph  and  Mahalla  Diam- 
ond. Tae  Diamonds  were  of  Scottish  an- 
cestry, and  my  father  was  of  the  first 
American  generation,  and  lived  to  the  ripe 
old  age  of  106  years,  and  died  at  Hunts- 
ville,  Alabama,  about  1863. 

"My  mother's  maiden  name  was  Allen, 
and  she  was  a  niece  of  General  Ethan  Allen, 
of  Ticonderoga  fame.  Her  ancestry  on  her 
mother's  side  was  the  Cotton's  who  came 
over  on  the  Mas^ower.  So  it  appears  in 
my  veins  runs  the  blood  of  tha  Scotch, 
Irish,  Dutch  and  English,  about  as  desirable 
mixture  as  one  can  wish  for  ancestry. 

"My  loss  of  early  education  met  with 
some  compensation  in  escaping  the  poison- 
ous air  of  the  modem  day  school-rooms, 
and  the  retaining  of  my  nervous  system 
intact,  instead  of  being  wrecked  by  an  ex- 
cited pressure  of  educational  stuffing  to 
meet  the  demands  of  the  text-books,  to  the 
exclnsion  of  the  application  of  common 
sense.  Blessed  is  the  youth  who  enjoys 
the  privilege  of  country  life,  runs  hare- 
footed  and  wades  every  creek  and  pond  in 
the  community. 

"While  in  the  South  I  was  employed  in 
the  commission  business  or  superintending 
plantations,  and  when  in  tlie  North,  I  was 
engaged  in  building  the  first  railroads  in 
the  United  States,  among  them  being  the 
railroad  from  Worcester  to  Boston,  the  old 
colony  road  fi^m  Boston  to  Plymouth,  and 
the  road  fixjm  Albany^  New  York,  to  old 
Durripp,  now  Schenectady.  I  to(^  part  in 
the  construction  of  the  New  York  and  Erie 
canal,  from  New  York  to  Bufblo,  which  I 
twice  assisted  to  enlarge.  When  the  war 
began  in  1861  I  was  in  St.  Louis,  engaged 
in  building  the  I^xington  and  Farmer  City 
Railroad.  As  I  look  back  over  that  long 
period  of  long  ago — aggregating  sixty-five 
years  of  my  life,  and  then  look  at  men 
alongside  of  me  who  say  they  are  now 
sixty-five  years  old,  it  seems  an  incredible 
thing  that  my  age  was  then  more  than 
threescore  years. 

"The    most     memorable    campaign    in 

iSqq 


which  I  ever  engaged  was  in  1840,  when 
General  Harrison  was  the  candidate.  In 
Albany,  New  York,  of  that  year,  I  rode  in 
the  'Log  Cabin,'  drawn  by  four  hundred 
yoke  of  oxen,  there  being  four  lines  of 
teams  of  one  hundred  yoke  to  the  Hne. 
Fifty  years  later  I  marched  in  the  line  of 
Republicans  in  San  Francisco,  who  were 
'whooping  it  np'  for  his  grandson.  General 
Benjamin  Harrison. 

"What  I  Eat  and  Drink. — Thatwhich 
enters  within  the  man  tells  the  story  of 
building  up  or  tearing  down.  Breathing, 
eating  and  drinking  are  the  three  processes 
of  taking  into  the  body  the  vital  forces  of 
nature. 

"Three  things  I  have  faithfully  practiced 
in  the  last  half  century,  jointly.  The  first 
is  that  of  breathing  the  freshest  air  possible, 
long,  deep  draughts.  The  second  is  thi 
selection  and  eating  of  the  best  l»one  and 
blood-making  food  at  my  command.  The 
third  is  the  use  of  pure  water  at  proper  time 
and  temperature.  When  I  began  to  pre- 
pare the  body  for  long  and  healthy  life,  I 
left  out  of  my  diet  slaughtered  meats  entire- 
ly. I  saw  enough  in  the  flesh  of  butchered 
animals  while  it  was  hanging  in  the  slaugh- 
tering-pens throughout  the  country  to  satis- 
fy me  that  there  was  more  disease  and 
cause  for  suffering  in  it  than  therewas  food. 
I  eat  grains,  fruits,  nuts  and  vegetables;  I 
drink  boiled  or  distilled  water.  I  take  a 
sponge  bath  every  night,  after  which  I  rub 
a  little  olive  oil  in  each  of  my  joints,  thus 
keeping  the  machinery  in  good  working 
order. 

"I  have  neverused  apipe,  cigar  or  cl^ 
aiette;  never  indulged-  in  wine.,  nor  any 
intoxicating  liquor,  omitting  entirely  the 
use  of  tea  and  coffee.  None  of  these  things 
contain  food,  and  nature  rebels  at  their  use. 
There  are  better  uses  for  our  cash.  Food 
is  to  build  up  what  is  daily  being  torn 
down,  but  there  is  no  food  in  stimulants, 
and  the  person  who  indulges  in  them  cuts 
short  his  life,  sins  against  his  own  body, 
against  his  neighbor  and  against  his  Maker. 

"For  more  than  half  a  century  I  have 
lived  the  life  of  a  Vegetarian,  and  I  can  see 
no  reason  why  I  should  not  live  a  long  time 
yet,   for  I  am  perfectly  well,  with  not  an 


rzodlivGoO^^IC 


organic  disease.  I  eat  well,  also  sleep  well, 
and  I  look  mach  younger  than  when  I  was 
fifty  years  old,  and  I  am  sore  I  feel  younger, 
for  I  was  then  an  old  man,  with  round 
shoulders  and  bent  form.  If  I  live  until 
the  first  day  of  Hay,  1899,  I  will  be  one 
hundred  and  three  years  of  age.  Next 
April  I  will  take  a  bath  in  the  Pacific  Ocean 
at  Seal  Rock,  San  Francisco,  Cal.,  and  will 
then  start  on  my  long  walk  to  New  York 
City,  and  will  take  my  next  ocean  bath  in 
the  Atlantic  Ocean  at  Coney  Island,  New 
York.  I  walk  about  twenty  miles  each 
day,  so  you  see  I  believe  in  bodily  exercise. ' ' 
Mr.  Diamond  has,  we  understand,  written 
a  book  of  his  experience,  a  copy  of  which 
we  &iled  to  receive,  although  we  wrote  him 
some  time  ago  for  the  information  above 
published.  .  The  strong  feature  in  the  case 
is  as  shown  by  the  two  pictures  on  page  95, 
that  he  has  improved  in  health  and  appear- 
ance since  he  entirely  abandoned  the  use  of 
flesh  meat,  and  is  in  better  condition  for 
exertion  at  103  than  he  was  at  63,  40  years 
ago.  We  hope  he  will  accomplish  his 
overland  joumef  as  he  anticipates,  as  we 
may  then  have  the  pleasure  of  meeting  him 
in  Philadelphia  or  New  York." 


tism  for  four  months  at  a  time,  and  could 
not  walk.  I  had  suffered  with  scrofulotis 
complaints  for  many  years,  which  I  am 
certain  were  caused  by  my  parents'  meat 
eating. 

Now,  I  am  free  from  them  and  have  no 
desire  to  return  to  the  bondage  of  disease 
and  death  again.  Inasmuch  as  we  partake 
of  that  which  is  slain,  do  we  become  the 
slayer.  I  have  become  so  well,  so  strong, 
and  with  snch  perfect  health  that  it  has 
become  a  subject  of  comment  among  my 
friends.  My  conscience  is  becoming  quite 
clean  from  past  sins,  and  all  fear  and  doubts 
are  leaving  me.  I  talk  to  many  and  some 
have  followed  my  example  with  great  suc- 
cess, in  regard  to  health  and  humanity. — 
Helen  Smith,  Applegate,  Placer  Co.,  Cal. 


RHEUMATISM  &  SCROFULA  CURED, 
I  became  convinced  many  years  ago  that 
to  take  life  to  sustain  life  was  a  senseless  as 
well  as  useless  act.  I  was  working  in  a 
printing  office,  and  among  the  exchanges 
came  across  a  copy  of  Food,  Homb  and 
Gardbn,  which  pleased  me  very  much. 
Some  of  the  ideas  haunted  me  in  my  dreams. 
In  1885  I  qtiit  the  use  of  tea  and  coffee  en- 
tirely, and  have  never  tasted  a  drop  of 
either  since  the  day  I  first  said  "no  more," 
In  1887  I  quit  the  use  ol  all  flesh  and  have 
never  tasted  flesh  since.  And  I  have  real- 
ized that  all  trouble  with  my  indigestion 
ceased  soon  after.  All  headaches,  bad 
dreams  and  all  rheumatism  left  me.  I  was, 
befi}re  qnitting  meat,  down  with  rheuma- 
86 


CELERY  AN  ANTIDOTE  FOR  RHEU- 
MATISM. 
Celery  is  a  cure  for  rhenmatism ;  indeed, 
it  is  asserted  that  the  disease  is  impossible 
if  the  vegetable  be  cooked  and  freely  eaten. 
The  fact  that  it  is  always  put  upon  the 
table  raw  prevents  its  thereapeutic  powers 
from  being  known.  The  celery  should  be 
cut  into  bits,  boiled  in  water  until  soft,  and 
the  water  drank  by  the  patient.  Put  new 
milk,  with  a  little  flour  or  nutmeg  into  a 
saucepan  with  the  boiled  celery,  serve  it 
warm,  with  pieces  of  toast,  eat  it  with 
potatoes,  and  the  painfril  ailment  will  soon 
yield.  Such  is  the  declaration  of  a  phys- 
ician who  has  again  and  again  tried  the  ex- 
periment and  with  uniform  success.  Acid 
blood  is  the  primary  and  sustaining  cause  of 
rheumatism,  and  while  the  blood  is  alkaline 
there  can  be  neither  rheumatism  nor  gout. 


King  Humbert  is  a  Vegetarian.  He  lives 
entirely  on  vegetables  and  fruits  and  never 
feels  so  well  as  on  bread,  potatoes  and 
oranges. —  Washinglon  Times. 

,.ibv  Google 


■  ,     ■  v>-..;>.L-M 


DR.  ELLEN  G.  SMITH'S  RECOVERY. 
"Take  care  of  yourself,"  a  text  oft  re- 
peated, had  slipped  out  of  its  place  in  my 
code  of  commandments  and  before  I  was 
aware  of  the  pending  result,  I  found  my- 
self on  the  down-hill  grade,  and  a  serious 
accident  left  no  opportunity  to  avert  the 
resulting  partial  paralysis.  After  several 
months  of  home  care  and  treatment  by  my 
own  methods,  mental  and  physical,  I  was 
pronounced  by  physicians  an  almost  hope- 
less case  of  Lacomalor  Ataxia,  which  is 
rarely,  if  ever,  cured  by  ordinary  methods 
of  ttierapy.  I  took  a  long  course  of  electri- 
cal and  scientific  massage,  with  slight  im- 
provement. Then  I  met  with  another 
accident,  and  for  several  months  could  not 
stand  or  step  without  support,  and  the 
entire  body  was  out  of  tune.  Every  possible 
method  for  relief  was  brought  to  bear  on 
the  case,  and  I  began  to  walk.  But  little 
dependence  could  be  placed  upon  the  limbs 
for  steadiness,  and  the  vital  organs  were 
still  seriously  involved.  As  a  pessimist, 
my  fate  would  have  been  that  of  a  con- 
firmed invalid.  But  being  a  positive  op- 
timist, no  matter  what  the  conditions,  I 
was  sure  there  must  be  some  way  out.  In 
November  last,  my  attention  was  called  to 
Spiritual  Science  as  practised  by  one  whose 
success  had  been  remarkable  even  in  cases 
similar  to  mine.  I  wrote  the  doctor  for  his 
terms  and  with  the  reply  came  an  invisible 
power  that  gave  me  hope  of  complete 
restoration.  The  brain  became  clearer,  I 
walked  with  more  freedom,  slept  better, 
and,  more  surprising  than  all  else,  I  at 
once  began  to  eat  and  assimilate  my  food, 
which  had  for  three  months  been  almost  at 
the  starvation  point  in  quantity,  and  these 
results  of  a  brief  letter  conveying  its  invis- 
ible substance  to  me.  My  first  treatment 
consisted  of  a  much  needed  talk  that  told 
me  where  I  stood  physically,  mentally  and 
1899 


spiritually.  "Peace  be  still"  was  spoken 
to  the  inharmonies  and  new  pictures  to  the 
mind. 

Treatment  varied  according  to  conditions , 
often  almost  entirely  mental,  again  active, 
physical,  with  a  steady  improvement  which 
was  evident  every  day.  "Peace  be  still" 
has  become  a  reality.  Spiritual  therapy 
stood  without  a  rival  in  the  days  of  Christ 
and  through  all  the  ages  it  has  been  more  01 
less  a  recognized  force,  and  to-day  stands 
on  its  merits,  either  by  itself  or  incorpor- 
ated unconsciously  into  every  method  of 
therapy,  and  the  more  we  recognize  the 
silent  operation  of  the  higher  powers,  the 
better  for  humanity  in  every  way.  To-day 
I  feel  new.  A  year  ago  I  could  barely 
walk  even  a  few  steps  alone,  and  six  months 
ago,  although  I  could  walk  some,  but 
under  great  resistance  and  by  watching  my 
footsteps,  I  now  go  anjrwhere  I  wish,  can 
walk  two  or  three  miles  a  day.  I  am  about 
to  resume  my  lectures  and  my  practice,  and 
am  not  in  any  way  much  like  the  woman 
who  visited  you  two  years  ago,  and  whom 
you,  doubtless,  like  many  others,  thought 
never  would  recover.  But  one  by  one,  old 
conditions  have  departed  and  nature  as.serts 
herself  at  every  point.  Each  day  I  realize 
the  force  of  these  words  that  came  to  me 
long  ago  as  an  inspiration  to  many  an  inva- 
lid. "By  the  power  of  the  spirit  ye  are 
healed  and  by  the  power  of  the  spirit  ye 
shall  remain  healed,"  and  this  penetrating 
power  does  not  conflict  in  the  least  with 
hygienic  law,  but  the  two  are  harmo- 
nious.— Ellen  Goodell  Smith. 


Mr.  J.  Abbott,  of  Saratoga,  had  kidney 
trouble  very  badly  and  was  advised  by  Dr. 
Miller,  of  San  Jose,  Cal.,  to  discard  meat 
&om  his  diet.  By  so  doing  he  was  cured, 
and  is  now  an  advocate  of  Vegetarianism. — 
Mrs.  D.  H.  Coster,  Mountain  View,  Cal. 


,Coo§k 


I  FOOD  HtiMil^GARDEf^l 


Food,  Home  and  Qarden. 


we  have  had   experience  with   it   we  will 
say  more. 


SI,.     Smion  F.  INol 

loChestaut  St.)    Philadelphia. 

RBV.    HK-NB 

V  S.  CLUBB.  Bdilor. 

AdrertlsemeoU  per    It 
11    Insertions  Si.oa. 
Por  jj  IitserUoos  Jio 
t'S. 

,  (our -,11'isctiptiops   Ii.anyenr. 

Air  11  lines  i  InserUoa  Ji.ao! 
Per  pare.  Inside,  Its,  outside. 

Vegetarians  usually  consider  the  potato 
the  least  desirable  of  vegetarian  articles  of 
food,  on  account  of  its  starchy  nature,  and 
yet  it  seems  John  Wesley  subsisted  many 
years  npon  potatoes  and  enjoyed  excellent 
health. 


The  use  of  Pure  Peanut  Butter  is  rapidly 
extending.  We  send  this  Butter  to  Maine, 
Florida,  California,  Mexico,  Canada,  Wash- 
ington and  intermediate  states.  It  is  as 
cheap  as  Creamery  Butter  and  a  great  deal 
more  wholesome  and  nourishing. 


It  is  a  subject  of  congratulation  that  that 
earnest  health  reformer  Dr.  Ellen  Goodell 
Smith  has  been  restored  to  a  normal  con- 
dition. She  gives  her  own  account  of  her 
restoration.  We  will  never  condemn  the 
means  by  which  health  has  been  acquired. 


A  box  of  the  "  Invigorator"  Food  ad- 
vertised by  Frank  K.  Brown  and  Dr.  Ellen 
Goodell  Smith  has  been  sent  us  by  them  for 
trial.  Dr.  Smith  endorses  it  very  strongly 
and  states  it  is  invaluable  to  her  and  on  her 
recommendation    we    advertise  it.     When 


The  court  of  Inquiry  found  that  canned 
roast  beef  was  a  suitable  ration  only  two 
days  in  ten,  and  never  two  days  m  succes- 
sion. And  this  only  applied  where  cook- 
ing utensils  and  vegetables  were  available. 
The  poor  soldiers  were  compelled  to  eat 
the  stuff  or  starve,  fresh  fruits  were  denied 
them  in  a  tropical  climate! 

Rev.  Mrs.  H.  S.  G.  Lake  is  conducting 
services,  each  Sunday,  in  Unity  Church, 
Olympia,  Wash.,  the  first  meeting  having 
been  held  Feb.  26th.  The  topics  presented 
cover  a  wide  range  of  thought,  ideal  and 
practical,  and  many  have  expressed  them- 
selves as  much  benefitted  thereby.  April 
23rd  the  value  of  a  Vegetarian  diet  was 
well  set  forth. 


Mr.  Rnfus  H.  Smery  of  Bucksport,  Me., 
writing  to  the  secretary  of  the  Universal 
Peace  Union,  and  sending  a  donation, 
remarked:  "I  do  not  believe  in  killing 
my  brother  man ;  neither  do  I  believe  in 
kilting  our  animal  hiends  and  then  eating 
them.  Please  extend  your  congress  to  our 
animal  friends  and  give  them  peace  with 
the  rest  of  God's  creatures." 


Mrs.  Sarah  Thacker  has  sent  us  a  more 
particular  account  of  her  farming  and  fruit 
growing  operations  which  will  appear  in 
our  next.  The  country  where  her  College 
and  zoo  acres  are  located  appears  to  be  very 
beautiful  and  productive  either  with  or,  for 
some  crops,  without  irrigation. 


When  the  Court  of  Inquiry  rejected  Gen. 
Miles's  evidence  of  180  officers,  it  was 
stated  as  a  reason  that  the  Court  must  be 
satisfied  that  enough  evidence  was  already 
in  to  sustain  the  charges.  Now  the  de- 
cision is  that  the  General's  charges  in  rela- 
tion to  embalmed  beef  were  not  sustained 
by  the  evidence.  How  about  the  evidence 
that  was  ruled  out?  Let  that  also  be  pub- 
lished. 

Miss  M.  E.  McGraw   is  engaged  in  the 
humane  work  of  the  Society  for  the  Preven- 
tion of  Cruelty   to   Animals  in  San  Fran- 
June, 


CISCO.  She  writes:  "I  have  long  felt  that 
the  foundation  stone  of  cruelty  to  our  poor 
dumb  friends  is  the  hideous  meat-eating 
habit.  I  want  to  abolish  every  slaughter- 
house and  every  meat  market  in  the  land 
and  if  I  could  see  that  work  done,  then  I 
would  be  ready  to  progress  to  some  other 
planet.  But  I  am  sure  I  uever  could  be 
happy  even  in  Heaven,  with  the  memory 
that  there  is  a  planet  where  these  things 
exist. ' ' 


Mrs.  Pairchild  Allen  did  not  make  the 
charge  that  flesh  eating  is  cannibalism  but 
that  it  is  the  fair  inference  from  Rev.  C.  J. 
Adams'  opinion  that  animals  have  souls 
as  man  has;  that  Dr.  Adams'  oppositiou  to 
Vegetarianism  is  the  more  unaccountable. 


The  eighty-first  Annual  Assembly  of  the 
Bible  Christian  Church,  Philadelphia,  took 
place  on  Monday,  May  22,  1899.  It  was 
presided  over  by  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb. 
The  dinner  as  usual  consisted  of  choice 
Vegetarian  dishes.  The  officers  and  trus- 
tees were  mostly  re-elected  and  in  addition 
Mr.  Bdwin  F,  Metcalfe  was  elected  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Board  of  Deacons  and  Mr.  Henry 
T.  Cariss  a  member  of  the  Board  of  Trus- 
tees. The  reports  were  mostly  of  an  en- 
couraging character. 


A  humane  lady,  a  liberal  contributor  to 
the  Vegetarian  Cause,  at  present  in  Paris 
at  5  rue  Boissonnade,  Madame  Louise  Bur- 
leigh Curtis,  inquires  for  information  as  to 
the  best  Vegetarian  food  for  dogs  and  cats 
and  whether  experiments  in  regard  to  veg- 
etarian food  have  been  made  in  Dog  and 
Cat  Homes  in  America.  Perhaps  some  of 
OUT  readers  can  furnish  the  information 
asked.  We  were  acquainted  with  an  in- 
telligent German  in  Michigan  who  kept 
dogs  for.  hunting  and  he  fed  them  almost 
18<W 


exclusively  on  com  meal  mush.  He  found 
them  much  keener  as  to  scent  on  this  diet 
than  on  any  other,  and  it  is  very  cheap  as 
well  as  nutritious.  He  said  he  could  not 
control  them  when  he  fed  them  on  flesh  and 
they  were  less  intelligent. 


VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  PURE  PEA- 
NUT BUTTER. 
Mrs.  E.  L.  Wilcox,  West  Somerville, 
Mass.,  to  whom  we  sent  a  dozen  cans  of 
Pure  Peanut  Butter,  writes:  "The  Peanut 
Butter  arrived  in  good  order,  I  am  very 
much  pleased  with  it  as  are  all  my  friends 
who  joined  me  in  sendiug  so  that  I  have 
only  one  jar  left  for  myself,  so  that  it  will 
not  be  long  before  I  shall  have  to  send 
again."  This  is  the  most  economical  way 
of  obtaining  Peanut  Butter  as  by  sending 
direct  the  profits  of  Jobber  and  Dealer  are 
saved  by  the  consumer. 


PHILADELPHIA   VEGETARIAN 

.  SOCIETY. 
An  interesting  meeting  of  the  P.  V.  S. 
took  place  May  i8that  loaj  Foulkrod  St. 
Messrs.  Caldwell,  Doolittle  and  Thomas 
James  contributed  valuable  suggestions. 
Rev.  H.  S.  Clabb  presided,  It  was  de- 
cided to  hold  the  annual  Picnic  at  Willow 
Grove,  June  15th,  1899,  when  friends  from 
New  York,  New  Jersey  and  Pennsylvania 
are  expected  to  take  part.  Circulars,  later 
on,  can  be  obtained  at  our  office,  which 
will  contain  more  particulars. 


JAMAICA. 
The  account  we  publish  elsewhere  in 
regard  to  Jamaica  is  interesting  in  view  of 
the  Low  River  Vegetarian  Colony  forming 
there,  of  which  Mr,  George  Penlzke,  Chris- 
tiana, Jamaica,  is  the  chief  promoter,  and 
whose  advertisement  appeared  in  three 
preceeding  numbers.      It  must  be  a  charm- 


,vG*)glc 


iag  place  to  live  in,  where  "the  fences  are 
all  formed  hy  hedging  of  beautiftU  blossom 
vines.  Where  the  Colea  plant  grows  in 
great  profusion,  forming  hedges  four  or  five 
feet  high,  glowing  in  all  its  tropical  beanty, 
making  a  vision  of  loveliness  long  to  be 
remembered."  The  hotel  is  described  as 
supplying  all  a  traveller  could  desire,  ex- 
cept intoxicating  liqaors. 


A  DEBASING  APPETITE. 
The  Theosophical  Review  facetiously  re- 
marks: "Each  man  must  find  out  for  him- 
self what  is  the  best  food  to  keep  his  own 
particular  body  fit  for  the  work  he  intends 
to  get  out  of  it.  The  body  should  be  made 
an  obedient  instrument  for  the  work  to  be 
accomplished,  and  not  the  man  a  slave  to 
some  ideal  form  of  nourishment  which 
he .  imagines  a  mythical  Adam  and  Eve 
munched  in  Paradise."  We  may  add,  nor 
should  he  be  a  slave  to  any  appetite  which 
has  debased  mankind  to  a  condition  of  per- 
petual bloody  warfare  with  an  innocent  and 
unoffending  portion  of  creation  in  order  to 
gratify  itself  with  the  flesh  and  blood  of  its 
victims. 


ARE  WE  ALL  AT  WORK? 
If,  as  Vegetarians  believe,  it  is  a  blessed 
thing  for  man  to  live  the  true  life  without 
batchery,  should  we  not  endeavor  to  extend 
a  knowledge  of  the  principles  we  believe? 
The  use  of  Our  Postscript  as  an  inclosure 
in  letters  is  a  very  inexpensive  method, 
and  we  ask  our  readers  to  aid  in  this  work, 
making  it  a  rule  never  to  send  a  letter 
witbont  inclosing  one  or  more  of  these 
little  leaflets.  One  subscriber  writes: 
"Please  send  me  fifty  each  of  'The  Synop- 
sis,''The  Vegetarian  Principle,'  and 'The 
Anatomy  of  Man.'  All  are  Our  Post- 
script leaflets  and  are  fine.  I  use  them  to 
send  to  colleges  and  in  my  humane  pack- 
90 


ets.  Do  not  ever  let  these  vitally  us^ol 
tracts  go  out  of  print,  I  beg  of  you.  Wish 
I  could  give  a  fortune  for  your  work. — Mrs. 
M.  C.  Jordan,  Andover,  Mass."  See  ad- 
vertisement of  Odr  PlJSTSCRlPT. 


A  U.S.  VEGETARIAN  COLONY. 
The  question  is :  "Shall  we  have  a  Vege- 
tarian Colony  in  the  United  States?  In 
Manitoba,  through  the  munificence  and 
foresight  of  the  Canadian  Government,  a 
colony  of  5000  VegeUrians  with  a  township, 
36  square  miles  of  land,  is  established  and 
bids  fair  to  be  a  very  prosperous  enterpris- 
ing community.  The  objection  is  that 
Manitoba  is  a  very  cold  climate  during  six 
or  seven  months  in  the  year,  and  the  Som- 
mcr  season  is  short.  If  the  United  States 
Government  were  properly  appealed  to,  we 
have  no  doubt  a  grant  of  land  for  a  Vegeta- 
rian Colony  could  be  obtained  in  Southern 
Florida,  away  from  frosts ;  or  in  Southern 
California,  or  in  New  Mexico.  If  such  a 
grant  were  obtained,  the  Vegetarians  in  all 
parts  of  the  world  could  be  invited  to  join 
it  and  a  colony  established  that  would  be- 
come equal,  if  not  superior,  to  the  Manitoba 
Colony,  We  asked  last  month  for  the 
names  of  such  as  were  willing  to  unite  in 
applying  for  such  a  grant.  We  have  re- 
ceived responses  which  show  that  the  idea 
is  approved.  Those  who  have  sent  us 
their  names  favor  Southern  California, 
Southern  Florida  and  Western  North  Car- 
olina or  Eastern  Tennessee.  We  invite 
wide  awake  friends  to  send  us  their  names 
so  that  application  can  be  made  in  time  for 
the  ne  xt  session  of  Congress.  Let  us  have 
a  thousand  names  at  least.  It  is  not  neces- 
sary that  the  applicants  intend  themselves 
to  live  in  the  colony,  but  that,  as  citizens  of 
the  United  States,  they  desire  the  grant  to 
be  made  so  that  Vegetarians  can  be  invited 
to  it. 


dbyGoDgte 


CoBtribnled  by  B.  K.  C. 

MENU  FOR  A  JUNE  DAY. 


Grmoae  Plakc  Blacntti.  Sugar  snd  Crvim. 

TdduIo  Omelet.  Johnnr  Cake. 

Catamet  Cereal  Co&ce. 

I,DNCH. 

Sliced  ToBuloe*.  Red  lUdUm.  I.«tttMX. 

Cream  Balad  DrcKlDg.  Watercreaa  Sandwlchei. 

AlmoDd  ftandwlcfaea.  Browu  Breaa. 

Ollna.  PtdII  Salad. 

Iced  Cocoa. 

DINNBR. 

Bmt  Cora  on  Cob.  Bromieil  Hew  Potatoet. 


moating  Iidand  wlUi  StnwbciTiea. 

RhDbarb   Pie. 

SptiDR  Water.  Kaughph;. 

RECIPES. 

Tomato  Omelet. — Four  eggs  well  beaten, 
a  Utile  milk,  chopped  parsley,  seasoning  to 
taste.  Have  the  omelet  pan  hot  and  well 
greased  Pour  in  the  egg,  and  just  before 
tnmiug  add  a  little  chopped  tomato  from 
which  the  juice  has  been  drained.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  parsley. 

Almond  Sandwiches. — Cat  brown  bread 
a  day  old  in  very  thin  slices.  Cut  off  all 
crusts.  Spread  a  thin  layer  of  Almond 
Butter  between  the  two  slices  of  bread. 

Iced  Cocoa. — One  teaspoon  of  cocoa  to 
each  cup  of  milk.  Heat  the  milk,  add  the 
cocoa,  previously  dissolved  in  a  iittle  cold 
milk.  I^t  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  let 
cool  on  ice.     Serve  in  glasses  with  chipped 


nas;  peel  and  slice  three  sweet  oranges, 
carefully  removing  the  pips;    peel  and  eye 


a  small  pineapple  and  pal!  into  small  bits 
with  a  silver  fork.  Arrange  in  layers, 
potiring  over  each  layer  the  following  Sal- 
ad Dressing  and  serve  very  cold. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. — Beat  together  the 
yolks  of  four  eggs  until  light  colored  and 
thick ;  add  gradually  one  cnpfdl  of  pow- 
dered sugar  and  one-half  of  a  teaspoonfril 
of  salt  and  continue  beating  until  the  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Add  the  strained  juice  of  two 
lemons  and  pour  over  the  salad. 

Rhubarb  Pie. — Line  deep  dishes  with  a 
good  paste.  Fill  each  dish  with  rhubarb 
cnt  rather  fine,  heaping  it  in  the  centre; 
sprinkle  over  each  five  heaping  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar;  if  the  rhubarb  be  very  young 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Cover  with  a 
top  crust,  wetting  the  paste  that  the  two 
crusts  may  adhere  together.  Bake  in  a 
moderately  qnick  oven  for  from  thirty-five 
to  forty  minutes. 

Watercress  Sandwiches. — Pick  over, 
wash  and  dry  the  cress,  rejecting  any  large 
tough  stems.  Pound  it  to  a  pulp.  Cream 
the  butter  and  work  into  it  the  prepared 
cress,  using  twice  as  much  butter  as  cress. 
Spread  very  thinly  on  the  bread. 

PcomW.D  C,  Taiapa.  Florida. 

Corn  Starch  from  Green  Com. — Grate 
the  corn  into  a  tub.  Wash  all  the  starch 
from  the  cobs  as  they  are  finished.  Separ- 
ate the  bran  from  the  milky  water  by  using 
a  sieve  or  colander,  then  stir  the  starch  wa- 
ter into  a  larger  bulkof  water,  say  a  barrel, 
and  let  it  settle  until  clear.  This  takes 
much  longer  than  in  making  of  potato- 
starch.  Draw  off  the  water  by  a  piece  of 
hose  or  siphon.  Add  more  water  and  re- 
peat the  process  again  and  again   nntil   the 


v  Google 


po  MMiliiiiip 


sediment  is  clean  starch.  If  it  is  not 
cleaned  well  it  is  IJkely  to  ferment  in  drying. 
Then  spread  the  starch  thinly  and  dry 
quickly.  If  you  have  plenty  of  it  you  will 
find  many  uses  for  it  that  you  did  not  think 
of  when  it  was  an  expensive  luxury. 

Com  Starch  from  Ripe  Corn, — If  you 
have  a  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  you  can 
make  starch  at  any  season  of  the  year  and 
get  more  lbs.  of  starch  per  bushel  of  com. 
Soak  good,  ripe,  shelled  com  for  several 
days  in  cold  running  water.  If  the  water 
be  warm  the  grain  will  sprout,  if  it  be  stand- 
water  the  starch  is  almost  certain  to  get  a 
musty  or  sonr  taste  before  you  are  finished 
with  it.  When  the  com  is  softened  grind 
it  wet  and  proceed  as  above,  and  enjoy 
your  fill  of  puddings,  blanc-mange,  lemon 
pies  etc.  etc.  in  spite  of  the  monopolies  and 
corporations. 

FromRcT.  liaae  B.  Rmmford,  Oaklind.Cal. 

Kdenic  Buttermilk. — Put  juice  of  one 
lemon  or  citric  or  tartaric  acid  in  tumbler, 
add  sugar  in  sufficient  quantity  to  suit  your 
taste.  Add  teaspoon  of  fine  flotu-;  mb 
smooth ;  fill  nearly  full  of  water ;  stir  well 
together.  Add  soda  enough  to  neutralize 
the  acid ;  stir,  and  drink,  being  glad  you 
can  have  milk  without  a  cow. 
VEG.  SOCIETY  PEANUT  BUTTER. 

The  Nut  Butter  I  have  from  you  is  ex- 
cellent. Do  you  know  of  any  firm  in  At- 
lanta where  it  can  be  had? — Mrs.  S.  A. 
Albright.  Atlanta,  Ga. 

We  frequently  have  inquiries  like  the 
above.  We  reply  that  we  are  not  aiming 
at  a  large  jobbing  business.  If  we  were  we 
should  be  compelled  to  put  the  price  at  re- 
tail, at  or  neat  the  price  usually  charged  by 
large  grocers  in  this  city,  viz.  25  cts.  for 
Ao^  pound  cans.  We  prefer  to  sell  direct 
to  consumer  at  about  half  that  price. 
This  saves  the  consumer  two  profits :  one 
for  the  wholesale   house  and  one   for  the 


retailer.     Send  orders  direct  for  dozen  cans 
and  you  will  save  money  even  paying  ex- 


THE  TOMATO. 

Mr.  Andrew  Wilson  of  London  says  there 
is  no  ground  whatever  for  the  opinion  that 
eating  the  tomato  causes  cancer.  In  the 
Grakam  Journal  of  over  fifty  years  ago  the 
tomato  was  condemned  as  unfit  for  food, 
but  since  it  has  become  a  wholesome  fruit. 
COCOANUT  MILK. 

What  we  call  milk  in  the  cocoanat  the 
South  Sea  people  call  water.  Cocoanut 
milk  with  them  is  the  kernel  grated  fine 
and  mixed  with  this  fluid.  The  resulting 
compound  is  of  the  consistency  of  cream, 
milk-white  in  color  and  delicious  to  the 
taste.  It  is  so  rich  that  one  can  eat  but 
little  of  it  directly,  and  it  is  principally 
used,  mixed  with  other  substances,  in  pre- 
paring dessert  dishes  and  as  a  frosting  for 
cake. — Capt.  Traelove. 

HONEY  AS  A  FOOD. 

Probably  most  people  consider  honey  as 
the  equal  in  value  for  food  of  any  sweet 
sauce,  no  better,  no  worse.  All  should 
know  that  it  possesses  one  great  superiority, 
ease  of  digestion.  The  nectar  of  flowers  is 
almost  wholly  cane  sugar.  The  secretions 
added  by  the  bees  ctunge  this  to  grape 
sugar,  and  so  prepare  it  that  it  is  almost 
ready  for  assimilation  without  any  effort  on 
the  part  of  the  stomach;  in  foot.  Prof.  A. 
J.  Cook  once  styled  honey  "digested  nec- 
tar." It  will  be  readily  seen  that  honey  is 
a  very  desirable  food  for  those  with  weak- 
ened digestive  powers.  If  a  person  is  very 
tired,  "too  exhausted  to  eat,"  it  is  aston- 
ishing how  a  few  tastes  of  honey,  will  act 
almost  like  magic.  But  little  effort  is  re- 
quired to  make  it  ready  for  assimilation. 
Persons  suffering  from  some  forms  of  kidney 
trouble  will  find  that  honey  is  a  much  more 
beneficial  food  for  them  than  is  cane  sugar. 
June, 


f 


THE  PEANUT  AN  AIR  PLANT. 

We  have  no  doubt  our  Ralstonian  friends 
who  object  to  what  grows  nnder  ground  or 
away  from  sanshine  are  honest  in  their  re- 
jection of  peanuts,  bat  if  they  understood 
the  physiology  of  the  peanut  plant  we  be- 
lieve they  would  see  that  the  objection  is 
not  a  sound  one.  The  peanut,  like  peas, 
beans,  lentils  and  clover,  obtain  their  nitro- 
gen from  the  atmosphere  whereas  wheat,  oats 
and  other  cereals  have  to  be  supplied  with 
nitrogen  by  barnyard  and  other  still  more 
offensive  manures.  Which  is  likely  to  be 
the  purest  food  ?  The  process  of  abstract- 
ing nitrogen  from  the  atmosphere  by  legu- 
minous plants  is  very  interesting  as  it  is 
said  to  be  performed  by  microbes  in  small 
lobes  on  the  roots  of  these  plants.  The 
ripening  of  peanuts  takes  place  after  they 
are  harvested  by  being  exposed  four  weeks 
to  the  snnshine  which  is  usually  sufficient 
to  remove  the  earthy  taint  if  any  they  have 
acquired. 

HARVESTING    PEANUTS. 

The  harvesting  tnnst  always  take  place 
before  frost,  for  the  nuts  and  haulm  are  both 
greatly  injured,  if  not  mined  by  frost.  If 
the  fall  should  be  wet  or  the  peanuts  mature 
very  early,  many  of  the  first  formed  nuts  will 
be  ruined  by  sprouting.  Dry  weather 
should  alwajrs  be  selected  for  harvesting. 
It  cannot  be  done  when  the  ground  is  wet, 
for  then  the  dirt  will  adhere  to  the  nuts  and 
ruin  them,  or  at  least  greatly  detract  from 
their  market  value  by  turning  them  black. 

The  crop  of  white  peanuts  is  harvested  by 
rupning  a  furrow  on  each  side  of  the  row 
with  a  btill-tODgue  plow  or  a  pea  digger,  so 
as  to  dislocate  the  roots.  Care  must  be 
taken  not  to  detach  the  nuts  from  the  vine 
1899 


RDEIN 


in  running  the  side  furrow.  After  the  plow 
has  been  run  on  each  side  of  the  row  (and 
it  is  sometimes  necessary  to  ran  twice  on 
a  side),  then  lift  the  vines  gently  with  the 
hand,  carefully  shaking  the  dirt  off,  and  lay 
them  on  the  ground.  Let  them  remain  in 
this  way,  if  the  stm  is  shining,  from  six  to 
eight  hours.  The  vines  will  wilt  like  clo- 
ver, when  they  may  be  brought  together 
and  stacked.  The  stacks  are  made  around 
a  pole  planted  in  the  ground  and  rising 
some  eight  feet  above  the  snrfece.  A  plat- 
form made  of  old  rails  rests  upon  logs 
placed  around  the  pole,  and  upon  this  the 
stack  is  built.  The  platform  protects  the 
nuts  and  vines  from  the  mold  and  dampness 
of  the  ground.  In  stacking  the  nuts 
should  be  put  on  the  inside  next  to  the 
stack  pole,  but  not  so  close  as  to  prevent 
the  air  from  circulating  finely  from  the  bot- 
tom to  the  top  of  the  stack.  To  make  the 
stack  entirely  secure  it  should  have  a  cap- 
ping of  hay  or  com  fodder.  Pot  ttp  in  this 
manner  the  nuts  will  keep  sectu^y  all  the 
winter  should  it  be  desired. 

The  red  nuts  are  more  easily  harvested 
than  the  white,  as  they  have  but  few  roots, 
and  the  nuts  adhere  closely  about  the  stem. 
In  loose  land  they  may  be  pulled  up  with- 
out mnning  a  furrow  on  each  side  of  the 
row,  though  to  do  this  will  make  the  work 
much  easier.  There  are  but  few  red  nuts 
now  grown  in  Tennessee.  An  overproduc- 
tion of  them  for  awhile  reduced  prices  be-< 
low  the  cost  of  the  labor  in  producing  them. 

Usually  the  nuts  are  allowed  to  stand  in 
the  stacks  for  about  four  weeks,  and  are 
then  picked  off  by  hand,  the  white  always. 
Five  or  six  bushels  of  red  peanuts  can  be 
picked  ofFiu  a  day. — Southern  Magazine..  ■ 

.,>„Goo'3le 


IMPROVING  THE  NEIGHBORHOOD. 

The  best  way  to  improve  the  neighbor- 
hood of  a  city  suburb  is  to  make  a  good 
garden  around  the  house  and  all  the  neigh- 
bors will  quickly  follow  the  example. 
Give  away  some  of  your  seeds  and  plants 
to  those  who  will  use  them  and  soon  the 
whole  suburb  will  be  improved,  A  rivalry 
will  spring  up  that  will  bring  about  a  con- 
tagion of  health. 

DIET  REFORM. 

One  of  the  greatest  reforms  needed  by  the 
human  race  is  that  of  turning  from  the  ex- 
cessive eating  of  meat  to  the  more  delicate 
and  wholesome  food  of  the  garden.  In 
this  work  the  seedsman  and  nutseryman — 
not  overlooking  the  horticultural  journal — 
take  a  chief  part. —  Vicks  /UitsiraUd  Maga- 
zine. 

We  are  glad  to  see  this  able   horticaltural 
publication  take  so  high  a  stand  on  diet  re- 
form.    Surely  the  horticultural  press  should 
join  in  a  crusade  against  flesh  eating. 
EASY    WAY   TO   BLANCH  CELERY. 

I  suggest  this  easy  method  of  blanching, 
at  least  for  moderate  supplies,  which  does 
away  altogether  with  the  necessity  of 
treoches  or  banking.  If  intended  for  win- 
ter blanching,  about  the  middle  of  Novem- 
ber the  plants  are  taken  up  on  a  dry  day  and 
placed  in  water-tight  troughs  or  other  ves- 
sels in  a  quite  dark  cellar,  the  plants  stand- 
ing erect  and  close  together.  Enough 
water  is  potued  on  the  roots  to  cover  them, 
and  the  supply  is  continued  through  the 
winter  as  it  evaporates.  This  constitutes 
the  entire  labor.  The  stalks  are  gradually 
and  handsomely  blanched  in  the  darkness, 
and  many  new  ones  spring  up  during  the 
winter  months,  especially  if  the  apartment 
is  not  very  cold,  and  these  new  shoots  are 
remarkable  for  their  delicacy  and  perfect 
freedom  from  any  particle  of  rust,  appearing 
like  polished    ivory.      A     small  separate 

94 


apartment  in  the  cellar,  without  windows, 
answers  well  for  this  piupose.  Boxes,  tubs, 
or  any  vessels  which  will  hold  a  few  inches 
of  water,  may  be  employed.  The  plants, 
as  grown  in  the  open  grounds  may  be 
slightly  earthed  to  bring  them  into  a  more 
compact  form,  if  desired. — Epilomist. 
JAMAICA. 

Mr.  H,  W.  Gerlach  writes  in  Frankford 
//erald  of  this  island: 

All  the  nativesare  black,  and  all  the  ser- 
vants also.  The  walks  and  drives  are  sim- 
ply grand.  ■  It  is  certainly  a  new  land  of 
beauty.  Owing  to  the  work,  and  improve- 
ments made  by  the  great  Fruit  Company, 
the  cocoanut  trees  grow  to  a  great  height, 
the  natives  climbing  to  the  top,  and  run- 
ning along  the  heavy  branches  with  the 
quickness  of  squinels.  The  green  cocoa- 
nat  is  alone  nseid  for  its  milk,  it  being  con- 
sidered a  great  delicacy.  Orange  groves 
send  forth  their  perfumes  on  the  air;  al- 
mond trees  grow  in  great  profusion :  they 
bear  a  beautiful  pink  and  white  flower  in 
blossom  time  somewhat  resembling  our 
peach  blossom,  only  much  larger. 

Far  as  the  eye  can  reach  on  every  side 
are  banana  trees  laden  with  their  delicious 
fruit ;  the  natives,  men  and  women,  gather 
them  and  carry  them  to  the  steamers.  The 
women  carry  almost  everything  on  their 
heads,  and  work  outdoors  all  the  time, 
helping  to  load  the  fruit  on  the  steamers ; 
with  the  men,  they  seem  to  be  a  very  jolly 
set  ot  people,  laughing  and  singing  as  they 
work,  and  seem  to  know  no  care  or  respon- 
sibility ;  the  women  earn  about  50  cents  per 
day,  are  very  bright  and  intelligent  and 
seem  to  have  great  strength  and  endurance. 

There  are  57000  acres  of  land  under  culti- 
vation by  the  Fruit  Co.  There  is  a  nar- 
row gauge  road  through  the  mountains  to 
the  cofiee  plantations  on  the  mountain 
tops.  On  the  outskirts  of  Port  Antonia 
are  large  groves  of  ginger  trees  under  culti- 
vation they  bear  a  t^autifrd  blossom  and 
fill  the  air  with  a  spicy  fragrance.  There 
is  a  peculiar  quality  in  the  atmosphere  that 
stimulates  the  system  without  any  after 
&tiguing  effect,  die  air  is  sxA  and  tMdmy. 


d  by  Google 


GODDARD   E.  D,  DIAMOND    IN    1 


GODDARD  E.  D.  DIAMOND. 

(Aged  103  on  May  i,  1899.)  Dbi-z.dbyGoOgle 


MARGARET. 
Fairv  Story  for  Little  Vegetariaks. 

Margaret  was  a  small  gtrl  with  rosy 
cheeks.  She  had  a  father  and  mother  and 
a  FAIRY  GODMOTHER.  Now  this  little  old 
woman  who  was  Margaret's  Fairy  God- 
mother loved  her  so  dearly  that  she 
watched  over  her  constantly  and  often 
spent  the  whole  night  by  her  bed  when 
Mai^ret  was  not  well.  Margarefs  father 
and  mother  were  good  and  kind  but  they 
often  gave  Margaret  food  that  was  not 
good  for  her  and  so  she  was  sometimes 
sick.  When  Margaret  got  sick  her  father 
would  sit  by  the  stove  and  smoke  cigars 
while  the  tears  ran  down  his  cheeks,  for  he 
loved  Margaret  and  he  did  not  see  why  she 
was  not  always  well . 

But  the  Fairy  Godmother  knew  very  well 
why  Margaret  was  sick  and  one  night  when 
Margaret  was  in  bed  with  a  cold  and  sore 
throat,  the  Fairy  Godmother  came  gliding 
into  the  room  where  Margaret's  fathersat 
with  his  feet  on  the  fender  blowing  rings 
of  cigar  smoke  up  in  the  air.  You  must 
know  that  the  Fairy  Godmother  was  pos- 
sessed of  Occult  Power,  and  could  make 
herself  invisible  in  an  instant  or  she  could 
make  herself  so  small  that  she  could  easily 
enter  a  room  through  a  keyhole.  She  had 
a  long  nose  that  almost  met  her  chin,  and 
she  wore  short  skirts  and  shoes  turned  up 
at  the  toes.  She  slid  in  through  the  key- 
hole so  suddenly  that  Margaret's  father 
dropped  his  cigar  in  surprise.  She  spoke 
out  loud  in  a  high  squeaky  voice  to  Mar- 
garet's father: 

"John!"  she  said,  "whal  ails  Margar- 
elf 

96 


"I  don't  know  Godmother,"  he  said, 
' '  we  have  done  everything  for  the  child  but 
she  gets  no  better ;  every  time  that  she  goes 
out  of  doors  she  gets  more  cold  and  I  fear 
that  the  Good  Lord  will  take  her  away 
from  us." 

Here  the  Fairy  Godmother  fairly  snorted 
with  indignation.  "Nonsense!"  she 
squealed  in  her  squeaky  voice,  "that  child 
simply  needs  a  change  of  diet  to  make  her 
iiver  act.  You  have  fed  her  on  butter  and 
sweets  until  her  system  is  all  clogged  up 
and  now  you  must  do  as  I  tell  you  and  feed 
her  on  apples  every  day." 

"  Apples!"  exclaimed  her  father,  "why 
they  cost  fifty  cents  a  peck  and  I  will  have 
to  give  up  my  cigars  if  I  buy  apples  for 
her.     How  can  I  do  that  ?' ' 

"You  can!  and  you  must!"  said  the 
Fairy  Godmother,  "for  your  child  only 
needs  apples  to  make  her  well  and  apples 
she  must  have!"  Here  the  little  old  wo- 
man stamped  her  feet  on  the  floor  so  fiercely 
that  Margaret's  father  tipped  himself  too 
far  back  in  his  chair  and  fell  over  back- 
ward. When  he  picked  himself  up  again 
the  Fairy  Godmother  had  vanished :  but 
he  twught  a  barrel  of  apples  next  day  and 
never  smoked  any  more  cigars.  Margaret 
was  soon  well  again  after  she  was  fed  on 
apples!  and  strange  to  relate  Margaret's 
father  was  better  tor  doing  without  his 
cigars  and  Margaret's  mother  laved  him 
dearly  for  buying  all  tbe  apples  the  child 
wanted. — William  Caiiby  Ferns. 


All  our  young  friends  especially  are 
invited  to  attend  the  Vegetarian  Ficuic  at 
Willow  Grove,  Thursday,  June  15.  1899. 


June 
.yCiOOglC 


WILLOW  GROVE  PARK.— Listening  to  the  Music,     r-  7 

...dbyCoogle 


DR.  FRANK  W.  ROSS. 


db,  Google 


Vol.  Ill,  New  Series,  No.  30.  JULY,  1899.  Whole  Ndmber  103. 

FRANK  W.  ROSS,  B.  S.,  A.  M.,  M.  D.,  D.  O. 


DR.  ROSS,  whose  portrait  we  present 
on  the  opposite  page,  is  recorded  in 
the  "Livesof  Eminent  Physicians," 
by  Stone,  as  being  a  graduate  of  five  col- 
leges, including  the  Indiana  State  Univer- 
sity and  the  Barnes  Medical  College,  at  St. 
Loai»,  Mo.,  the  largest  drag  college  west 
of  the  Mississippi.  He  is  a  fellow  of  the 
American  Association  of  Physicians  and 
Snrgeons.  Late  Chief  Physician  and  Sur- 
geon of  the  Botany  Park  Sanitarium  ;  spec- 
ial lecturer  on  hygiene  in  American  Medical 
College  of  Indianapolis,  Ind.;  author  of 
Medical  Hygiene,  Sexual  Diseases  of  Men, 
Medical  Secrets,  Hygiene  Cook  Book,  Hygiene 
Complete;  Professor  in  the  Central  Univer- 
sity Correspondence  School,  of  Indianap- 
olis, Ind.  Dr.  Ross  has  lectured  to  crowded 
booses  in  many  states  on  "Through  Ire- 
land, Scotland,  Germany,  Prance  and 
England,"  "From  New  York  to  Cali- 
fomia,"  "Old  Mexico  and  the  Passion  Play 
at  Tacuba,"  "The  Two  Greatest  Museums 
io  the  World — the  Loavre  and  the  British." 
Dr.  Ross'  Medical  Hygiene  is  recommended 
by  many  preachers  of  the  leading  denomina- 
tions. This  book  is  a  very  useful  com- 
pendium of  the  hygienic  treatment  under 
the  separate  titles  of  the  various  forms  of 
disease  and  the  hygienic  prescription  is 
given  in  the  common  English  vernacular, 
making  it  a  book  of  easy  reference.  We 
notice  that  in  nearly  every  direction  for  the 
1899 


cure  and  prevention  of  a  disease,  Dr.  Roes 
insists  on  the  diet  being  limited  to  fruits, 
rice,  oat-flake  or  wheat  meal  gruel  and 
and  toasted  brown  bread  or  similar  food  aad 
vegetables  and  a  total  abstinence  from 
drugs,  flesh-meat  and  fermented  or  distilled 
liquors,  tobacco,  and  other  poisons,  includ- 
ing tea  and  coffee.  Milk  is  permitted  in 
some  cases. 

The  book  treats  of  the  Diet  Cme,  the 
Grape  Cure,  and  advice  is  given  as  to  which 
fruits  are  best  for  certain  cases.  The  water 
cure,  both  internal  and  external,  is  largely 
treated  of,  and  many  cases  of  cure  by  the 
simple  remedies  prescribed,  are  related. 
The  flushing  of  the  colon,  usually  called 
Dr.  Hall's  remedy,  but  which  had  a  prior 
origin,  is  largely  prescribed.  The  hot  bath 
is  described  as  the  best  stimulant,  while 
cold  cloths  or  ice  applied  to  the  chest  is 
recommended  in  cases  of  hemorrhage  of  the 
lungs. 

The  following  systems  of  diet  are  recom- 
mended : 

V.  E.  M.  Diet.— Break&st:  6  to  8  oz. 
brown  bread  and  butter,  cup  of  cocoa  or 
weak  tea;  or  wheatmeal,  oatmeal,  hominy, 
or  barley  porridge,  eaten  with  brown  bread 
and  stewed  frait.  Dinner:  thick  vegetable 
soup  eaten  with  brown  bread,  followed  by  a 
milk  pudding  and  stewed  fruit.  Or  a 
potato,  haricot,  or  Vegetarian  pie,  or  the 
stew  in  the  next  diet.     Or  simply  two  vege- 

99, 


d  by  Google 


tables,  brown  bread  and  some  vegetable 
sauce.  A3  a  second  course,  milk  pudding 
and  stewed  fruit.  Those  who  do  not  eat 
flesh  should  eat  peas,  beans,  or  lentils  every 
other  day.  Supper;  6  to  8  ozs.  brown 
bread  and  butter,  boiled  Spanish  onion, 
boiled  or  raw  celery,  or  other  green  stuff, 
or  stewed  frnit  or  milk  pudding.  No  food 
for  at  least  three  hours  before  going  to  bed. 
This  diet  is  for  those  who  desire  to  get  bet- 
ter health  than  the  ordinary  people,  and  for 
the  delicate.  It  is  especially  useful  in  heart, 
liver,  kidney  and  chronic  stomach  com- 
plaints, iti  syphilis,  and  in  gout  and 
liieumatism.  For  the  hypochondriacal  it 
is  the  best  diet  I  know. 

Macaroni  Diet. — For  breakfast  and 
supper,  about  6  ozs.  brown  bread  cut  into 
dice,  pour  boiling  mUk  over  this,  allow  to 
cool,  and  then  eat.  Dinner:  4  ozs.  mac- 
aroni cooked  and  made  into  a  pudding ; 
eat  with  stewed  prunes  or  other  fruit.  Next 
.  day  have  a  stew  made  of  about  2  ozs.  each 
of  peas,  or  lentils,  with  rice  or  pearl  barley ; 
cook  them  well,  6a vor  with  a  little  carrot, 
turnip,  onion,  sweet  herbs,  butter  and  salt ; 
eat  with  brown  bread.  Finish  up  with 
stewed  fruit  and  bread.  This  diet  is  useful 
in  all  chronic  cases,  and  if  observed  for 
some  time  clears  the  body  of  waste,  and 
purifies  the  system  generally. 

Milk  Dibt. — Milk  and  barley  or  rice 
water  in  equal  parts ;  a  teacupful  may  be 
taken  cold  every  three  hours.  This  diet  is 
a  quick  cure  for  violent  sickness  or  diar- 
rhoea. 

Fever  Diet, — Milk  and  water,  gruel, 
porridge,  vegetable  soup,  milk  puddings, 
toast  water,  whey,  lemonade,  bread  and 
milk,  fruit  fresh  and  stewed,  preserve  water, 
etc.  These  are  the  foods  that  should  be 
given  in  erysipelas,  measles,  scarlet  fever, 
small-pox,  typhoid  or  other  fevers,  and  in 
acute  attacks  of  sickness  of  all  kinds. 
100 


The  book  is  admirably  adapted  for  femily 
use  and  is  being  largely  circulated.  On 
sale  by  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America 
at  the  published  price:  half  leather,  $3.00: 
cloth,  $1.50;  boards,  $1.00. 

Dr.  Ross  has  established  the  National 
School  of  Hygiene,  at  Champaign,  111., 
which  is  meeting  with  encouraging  success, 
having  already  twenty  students. 


A  PRACTICAL  TESTIMONIAL.,, 
I  have  been  practically  a  Vegetarian  for 
over  twenty  years.  During  these  twenty- 
two  years  I  have  not  had  to  call  a  physician 
(for  myselQ  nor  have  I  spent  any  money 
for  patent  medicines.  Previously  I  bad 
found  frequent  use  for  both.  My  health 
gradually  improved  after  the  reform  in  my 
diet.  I  do  not  remember  having  a  head- 
ache for  the  past  fifteen  years.  I  have  not 
been  sick  in  bed  for  more  than  a  day  or  two 
at  any  time,  and  but  seldom  at  that.  I 
mention  it  merely  lo  show  that  my  exper- 
ience has  been  that  of  others. — W-  D.  Chap- 
man, Tampa,  Florida. 


FLESH,  ALCOHOL.  TOBACCO. 
I  believe  that  pure  food  lays  the  founda- 
tion for  physical,  mental  and  moral  health- 
I  never  beard  of  a  Vegetarian  who  was  a 
drunkard.  Flesh,  alcohol  and  tobacco 
form  a  triplet  that  is  always  in  accord — or 
rather,  that  always  produces  discord.  Flesh 
poisons,  alcohol  paralyses  and  tobacco 
stupefies.  Pure  food,  pure  air  and  sun- 
shine, of  the  heart  as  well  as  of  the  otiter 
world,  give  that  poise  of  body  and  mind 
which  results  in  the  removal  of  dis-ease — an 
abmormal  condition  in  which  some  fnnc- 
tions  usuTp  vital  force  which  belongs  to 
others,  and  thus  the  whole  system  is 
thrown  into  pain  and  confusion.  — Ellen 
Snow,  Hartford,  Conn. 


Jnly. 

db,  Google 


ASBESTOS  LEATHER. 
A  German  inventor  has  patented  asbestos 
leather.  The  asbestos  is  combed  into  fine 
fibres,  then  immersed  in  an  India  mbber 
solution  until  every  fibre  is  covered  with 
the  solution.  The  solvent,  petrolenm  ben- 
zine, is  evaporated.  The  fibres  then  cohere 
perfectly,  and  the  mass  pressed  into  any 
desired  form.  It  is  said  to  resemble  very 
closely  leather  in  it  pectiliarities  and  struct- 
ure.— Zeugdrucker  Zeitung. 


parallel,  as  no  one  has  attempted  more  than 
a  twelve  hours'  run  over  this  or  any  similar 
course.  Last  year  was  noted  for  Vegetarian 
athletics  and  this  year  is  already  making  a 
brilliant  record. 


VEGETARIAN  ATHLETIC  VICTORY. 
325  MILBS  IN  24  HOURS. 
According  to  The  Vegetarian,  LoadoD, 
England,  Mr.  George  A.  Olley,  a  youth  of 
1 8  years,  has  won  the  gold  medal  offered 
by  Vegetarian  C.  C.  to  the  member  who 
would  ride  270  miles  over  the  roads  south 
of  London  in  twenty-four  hours.  Mr. 
Olley  not  only  accomplished  the  distance 
required,  but  55  miles  more  in  the  specified 
time.  It  was  practically  an  unpaced  ride, 
for,  although  he  had  singles  accompanying 
him,  except  during  45  miles,  when  he  was 
quite  alone,  he  gained  little  advantage 
thereby,  other  than  that  of  companionship, 
preferring  to  ride  abreast  of,  rather  than 
accepting  shelter  behind  these  firiends.  The 
night  was  showery  and  pitch  dark.  He 
used  a  6s-inch  gear  and  had  two  punctures 
to  contend  with.  The  route  was  fi^m  32 
Queen's  road,  Wimbleton,  to  Leatherbead 
and  Horsham — villages  familiar  to  ns  as 
being  the  places  visited  by  us  on  a  lecturing 
tour  in  1S43,  we  think  it  was.  He  also 
rode  half  a  mile  down  a  wrong  road,  which 
was  not  counted  in  the  distance  made.  At 
the  end  of  the  long  ride  he  was  not  at  all 
distressed,  but  had  a  splendid  color.  He 
kept  np  a  regular  pace  of  fifteen  miles  an 
hotir  for  the  last  three  hours.  When  the 
hilly  character  of  the  roads  is  taken  into 
consideration,  the  distance  made  has  no 
1899 


SOUTH  AUSTRALIA  V.  S. 

A  communication  from  Mr.  Arthur  Faw- 
cett,  Hon.  Sec.  of  the.  Vegetarian  Society 
of  South  Australia,  informs  us  that  this 
society  was  organized  in  Adelaide  in  Nov- 
ember, 1898,  with  twenty-seven  members 
and  associates,  and  that  the  publication  of 
a  monthly  paper  is  in  contemplation. 

Mr.  Pawcett  arrived  in  Australia  in  1893, 
and  felt  that  he  was  almost  alone  as  far  as 
human  aid  was  concerned,  but  he  worked 
and  lectured  and  gradnally  became  ac- 
quainted with  those  who  were  in  sympathy 
with  the  cause,  and  the  organization  of  the 
society  was  the  result  of  his  labors.  He 
distributed  leaflets  and  some  one  handed 
him  a  copy  of  FotjD,  HOHB  AND  Garden 
for  May,  1898,  and  hence  his  application 
for  publications  (rom  America,  which  we 
endeavor  to  comply  with  as  far  as  our 
means  will  allow.  Mr.  Fawcett  is  a  life 
Vegetarian  and  a  member  of  the  Vegetarian 
Society,  Manchester. 

The  new  organization  is  about  opening  a 
central  office  and  reading  room.  Our  read- 
ers can  render  essential  aid  by  subscribing 
for  sending  Odr  Postscript  and  other 
tracts  and  publications  for  distribution. 
We  would  be  glad  to  send  thousands  of 
these  little  messengers.  Who  will  contrib- 
ute fimds  for  this  purpose  ?  We  understand 
Mr.  Fawcett  contemplates  a  visit  to  Amer- 
ica, where  we  have  no  doubt  he  will  receive 
a  cordial  welcome.  He  is  being  ably 
assisted  now  by  Mr.  I.  Newton  Wood,  who 
is  lecturing,  so  that  a  movement  has  been 
fairly  started  in  South  Australia.  Meetings 
and  conversaziones  are  announced. 


d  by  Google 


THE  ANNUAL  PICNIC 

OF   THE    PHILA.  VEGETARIAN    SOCIETY 

Was  held  at  Willow  Grove,  oo  the  after- 
uoon  and  evening  of  Thursday,  June  15, 
1899.  The  New  York  Vegetarian  Society 
was  especially  invited  and  Mr.  John  W- 
Scott,  president;  Mrs.  Margaret  Haviland, 
vice  president;  Mr.  Arthur  Haviland,  hon- 
oraiy  and  active  secretary  of  the  New  York 
Society,  and  Mrs.  Henry  Wilhelm,  of 
Brooklyn,  N.  Y,,  were  present.  Members 
and  friends  of  the  Philadelphia  Vegetarian 
Society  from  West  Philadelphia,  German- 
town,  Frankford  and  other  parts  of  the  city 
were  present.  The  picnic  assembled  at 
Grove  No.  1  at  3  o'clock,  but  a  storm  com- 
ing up  rendered  it  necessary  to  adjourn  to 
the  Urge  pavilion  where,  at  5.30  o'clock,  a 
Vegetarian  picnic  was  served  as  follows : 
Sliced  tomatoes  on  lettuce. 

Nut  sandwiches.     Squash  sandwiches. 

Egg-plant  sandwiches. 

Nasturtium  sandwiches.         Graham  gems. 

Raisin  sandwiches. 

.    Olives.        Pickles.        Cheese. 

Hermit  cookies. 

Chocolate  cake.       Sponge  cake. 

Bananas.  Lemonade. 

This  menu  was  practically  and  merrily 
discussed  and  highly  enjoyed,  after  which 
Rev.  Henry  S.  Clabb,  president  of  the 
Vegetarian  Society  of  America,  called  the 
meeting  to  order,  and  welcomed  in  a 
cordial  manner  the  guests  from  New  York, 
and  all  who  had  come  from  various  parts  of 
the  city.  He  congratulated  them  on  the 
experience  of  the  past  year,  in  which  the 
record  of  prominent  events  had  added  to 
the  testimony  in  favor  of  the  principles  of 
the  Society.  In  athletics :  in  the  walking 
matches  of  Germany ;  in  the  bicycle  races 
of  New  York,  San  Francisco  and  recently 
in  England,  where  a  Vegetarian  Bicycle 
Club  has  just  awarded  a  gold  medal  to 
George  OUey,  a  Vegetarian  of  four  years, 
103 


for  having  made  325  miles  over  the  hilly 
roada  of  Surrey  in  twenty-four  hours ;  all 
these  trials  of  strength  had  established  the 
fact  in  the  public  records,  that  in  cases  of 
protracted  endurance,  flesh-eatiug could  not 
compete  with  Vegetarian  training.  Id 
longevity,  too,  the  record  was  strong  in 
favor  of  the  simple  Vegetarian  &re,  as  Mr. 
Diamond,  who  was  "an  old  man"  at  65, 
by  giving  up  flesh-eating,  is  an  athletic 
business  man  to-day,  although  be  had 
passed,  on  the  first  of  this  month,  his  103d 
birthday.  For  grace  and  beauty,  we  have 
the  experience  and  testimony  of  the  two 
eminent  prima  donnas,  Lili  Lehmanu  and 
Emma  Calve,  both  having  been  restored  to 
health,  vigor  and  beauty,  as  the  latter 
expressed  it,  by  "spades  and  potatoes." 

Mr.  John  W.  Scott,  the  president  of  the 
New  York  Vegetarian  Society,  who  is  a 
stalwart  Englishman,  said  he  had  for  years 
worked  at  his  business  twenty  of  the  twenty- 
four  honrs  a  day,  six  days  a  week,  and 
positively  felt  no  fatigiie.  He  had  alwajn 
enjoyed  excellent  health,  but  attributed  his 
ability  to  stand  the  strain  of  business  for 
over  100  hours  a  week  to  his  simple  habits 
of  diet.  Although  he  did  not  entirely  ab- 
stain from  animal  products  such  as  could 
be  procured  without  destroying  life,  milk. 
cheese  and  eggs,  his  experience  led  him  to 
prefer  nuts  and  fruit  even  to  these,  and  he 
found  the  less  he  took  of  the  aoimal 
products,  the  better.  He  said  on  the  ustuU 
belief  that  animals  had  no  after  life,  it 
seemed  more  cruel  to  kill  an  animal  than  to 
kill  a  Christian.  In  the  case  of  the  animal, 
you  deprive  him  of  the  only  life  he  can 
enjoy,  while  in  the  case  of  killing  a  Christ- 
ian, you  simply  transfer  him  to  the  regituis 
of  the  blest.  Of  course  he  did  not  advocate 
killing  in  either  case,  but  this  was  a  bdr 
inference  from  the  common  orthodox  belief 
and  he  could  not  see  how  this  belief  conld 

July. 

Digitized  by  Google 


be  held  and  continue  the  killing  of  animals 
in  order  to  feed  on  their  flesh. 

Mr.  James  Gartside,  of  West  Philadel- 
phia, gave  his  experience  in  the  army  dar- 
ing the  War  of  1861-5.  attribnting  the  prev- 
alence of  typhoid  fever  among  the  soldiers 
to  being  fed  on  heavy  rations  of  fat  pork 
and  other  forms  of  fiesh-food.  He  had 
himself  escaped  the  recent  epidemic  of  La 
Grippe  by  abstaining  from  flesh  and  sub- 
stituting nut  foods. 

Mr.  Arthur  Haviland  referred  to  the  very 
extensive  introduction  of  health  foods  and 
their  general  substitution  for  flesh-meat, 
which  had  become  so  prominent  a  feature  of 
our  civilized  American  life.  Especially 
-was  the  recent  introduction  of  nut  food  in 
the  form  of  Peanut  Butter  working  a  desir- 
able reformation  in  the  habits  of  the  people. 
He  said  peumt  Bandvriches  had  now  become 
the  thing  at  afternoon  teas  in  &shioBable 
New  York.  He  also  referred  to  the  good 
aatured  hits  at  Vegetarianism  in  the  comic 
papers  both  of  l^ondon  and  New  York. 
One  illustration  was  the  picture  of  a  bear 
which  is  made  to  say ;  "Be  not  afraid  l  I 
am  a  Vegetarian," 

Mr.  Scoville,  of  (lermantown,  made  one 
of  his  characteristic  speeches,  in  which  he 
showed  the  indulgences  of  the  fleshly 
appetites  was  the  chief  cause  of  nervous 
irritation  and  of  consequent  disagreements 
so  common  in  domestic  and  social  life. 

Mr.  Ht;nry  Doolittle,  of  Philadelphia, 
and  Mr.  Thomas  James,  of  Chicago,  made 
a  few  remarks,  after  which  the  president 
referred  feelingly  to  the  honor  done  to  Frank- 
lin in  the  statue  unveiled  the  previous  day 
in  Philadelphia,  characterized  by  Mr.  Beck 
as  the  greatest  American  ;  that  in  his  auto- 
biography, Franklin  attributes  bis  success 
in  life  to  hts  early  habits  of  living  on  rais- 
ins and  bread  while  studying  and  working 
at  the  printing  business,  behaving  attribut- 
1899 


ed  his  clearness  of  thought  to  his  abstemious 
habits.  That  while  none  of  the  companions 
of  Franklin  at  that  time  are  now  ever  heard 
of,  Franklin  himself  is  honored  the  world 
over  as  "the  greatest  American." 

After  a  solo  on  the  flute  by  Mr.  Scoville, 
the  meeting  adjourned  to  enjoy  the  at- 
tractions of  the  beautiful  Willow  Grove 
Park,  at  which,  and  for  the  courteous 
treatment  of  the  Management,  much  satis- 
faction was  expressed. 


ANOTHER  PRIMA  DONNA  CURED. 
"SPADES  AND  POTATOES." 
Mile.  Emma  Calve'  has  a  large  farm  at 
Cevennes,  where  she  rusticates  each  sum- 
mer. Last  summer,  according  to  the 
SaiKrd*y  Evening  Post,  this  "famous  singer 
went  into  her  kitchen  garden  and  cared  for 
her  own  vegetables.  No  one  was  allowed 
to  touch  tbem  and  the  results  were  far 
better  than  when  the  gardener  cared  for  the 
things.  She  wore  a  short  skirt  of  blue 
jeans,  sabots  and  a  linen  shirt-waist.  She 
spaded  and  hoed  and  watered  her  vegetables 
day  after  day,  and  proudly  sent  gifts  of  the 
finest  fruits  of  her  labors  to  friends  in  Paris.' 
The  prima  donna  was  very  ill  and  nervous 
when  she  went  to  Cevennes,  but  this  free 
open-air  life  and  the  vigorous  exercise  soon 
restored  her  to  the  most  robust  health,  and 
when  friends  ask  the  secret  of  her  cure 
sheanswers,  'spades  and  potatoes.'  " 


FREE  MASONS'  VEGETARIAN 
BANQUET. 
The  Herald  of  the  Golden  Age  reports 
that  at  the  banquet  of  the  Arcadian  Lodge 
of  Free  Masons,  held  at  Hotel  Cecil , 
London,  the  following  leaflet  was  found  in 
all  the  programme  cards:  "No  animal 
flesh  is  ever  provided  at  the  social  gather- 
ings of  this  Lodge." 


DiQi-zsdbyGoOgle 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


',  (Not  toCbcitnat  St.) 


KBV 

IlKNkVS. 

CUUBB,  Bditot. 

Oiie  ! 

lubacrliillQ 

o,  joe 

ii.,  fou. 

i.oo«ye«t. 

Adrertlieiaean 
Far  13  iotcrtfi 

B. 

Kne,    one    lastrtlan,    ■»    ccnM. 
•.    fJM-iilliio  r  iBMrUMili.aa. 
ro.    Perpute.Uulde.tis.oaltlde. 

Silk  is  reported  to  be  largely  superseded 
by  mercerized  cotton.  Tliat  even  experts 
cannot  in  many  cases  distiogoish  between 
these  goods,  and  the  new  &bric  is  said  to 
outlast  silk  for  umbrellas  and  other  ex- 
posed uses.    Of  course  it  is  less  costly. 


The  Saturday  Evening  Post  is  the  paper 
we  read  for  relaxation  from  mental  labor. 
It  is  delightfully  refreshing. 


Mrs.  F.  Q.  Ogden  purposes  to  devote  50 
acres  of  her  cotton  plantation  in  Mississippi 
to  the  planting  of  a  pecan  grove. 


The  article  on  the  "Chemistry  of  Food" 
on  the  next  page  will  form  No.  5  of  Ouk 
Postscript,  and  we  ask  our  friends  to  aid 
in  its  extensive  distribution  in  letters. 


The  Baltimore  American  says:  "The 
King  of  Italy  is  the  only  Vegetarian  mon- 
arch in  Europe,  and  the  only  king  now 
living  who  was  ever  wounded  in  battle." 
This  indicates  that  Vegetarianism  and 
courage  are  not  incompatible. 


We  call  attention  to  the  aims  of  the 
Vegetarian  Colony  by  Mr.  A.  S.  Donald- 
son, West  Hurley,  N.  Y.,  advertised  in 
this  number.  Those  who  desire  to  co- 
operate on  such  a  basis  will  please  write 
him  their  whole  mind  on  the  subject. 


The  reciprocity  treaty  with  the  Barbadoes 
is  only  the  first  of  a  series  of  similar  treaties 
with  Great  Britain.  Jamaica  is  to  follow, 
so  that  we  may  hope  that  a  trade  with  that 
island  may  soon  be  established  that  will 
include  the  free  importation  of  banana 
Sour,  which  will  be  a  wholesome  exchange 
for  American  wheat  flour. 
104 


The  Illinois  Society  for  the  Prevention  of 
Tuberculosis  is  being  organized  at  the 
rooms  of  the  Medical  Society,  Chicago.  It 
is  to  obtain  legislation  to  prevent  the  sale  of 
tuberculosis  cows.  The  Vegetarian  Society 
at  McVicker  Building  teaches  people  not 
to  eat  cows  at  all  and  discourages  the  nse 
of  milk. 


The  Boston /oirnfai/ states  that  the  ancient 
practice  of  falconry  is  likely  to  be  revived 
in  Boston.  If  destroying  life  is  to  be  con- 
tinned  as  a  sport  among  intelligent  people, 
it  may  be  well  to  delegate  the  work  of 
slaughter  to  carnivorous  birds,  but  why 
continue  it  at  all  ?  Cannot  Boston  invent 
some  humane  sport  ? 


The  return  of  Miss  Btnma  I.  Bettes, 
Secretary  of  the  Philadelphia  Vegetarian 
Society,  from  a  five  months'  visit  to  Colo- 
rado, is  a  source  of-  real  pleasure  to  her 
numerous  friends  in  Philadelphia,  It  is  not 
easy  to  find  a  better  place  to  live  than  the 
City  of  Penn,  and  those  who  go  away  tisual- 
ly  return  with  increased  satisfaction. 


The  Picnic  of  the  Philadelphia  Vegeta- 
rian Society  on  the  fifteenth  of  June,  at 
Willow  Grove  Park,  was  successful  in 
bringing  together  many  congenial  friends, 
and  the  beauty  of  the  ride  by  trolley  from 
the  city,  and  the  surpassing  loveliness  of 
the  park,  altogether  made  a  day  of  rich 
enjoyment.  We  have  given  some  pictures 
of  the  park  which  afford  some  slight  idea 
of  this  most  popular  resort  for  the  people  of 

umzMDvL-iOOgle 


Philadelphia.  After  the  picnic  and  ad- 
dresses, Food  and  Postscripts  were  dis- 
tribated  among  the  listeners,  some  of  whom 
expressed  themselves  greatly  interested. 


GROWING  YOUNG. 
The  two  photographs  of  the  Centenarian 
Diamond  in  the  Jane  issne,  show  how  liv- 
ing a  pure  Vegetarian  life  will  cause  a  man 
to  grow  younger  in  appearance  even  after 
fifty  years  have  been  spent  in  the  ordinary 
fleshly  indulgences.  We  have  noticed  the 
same  effect  on  ladies  who  had  lost  the  first 
charms  of  a  youthful  complexion,  by  the 
adoption  of  generous  unselfish  diet,  have 
acquired  a  degree  of  freshness  and  healthy 
vigor  surpassing  even  their  early  attractions, 
reminding  us  of  the  far-famed  fountain  of 
perpetual  youth. 


AMERICAN  VEGETARIAN  COLONY. 
Among  those  who  have  declared  ad- 
hesion to  the  movement  to  petition  Con- 
gress for  a  gmnt  of  land  in  which  to  start 
the  Vegetarian  Colonyare:  C.  J.  Zeitinger, 
Zeitonia,  Mo.;  John  R.  and  Kees  K.  Coop- 
er, Edwin  Greble  Dreer  and  Franlc  N, 
Normart,  Philadelphia;  Mrs.  K.J. Staples, 
Mrs.  M.  Clover,  Arthur  E.  Clover,  Miss 
L.  A.  fiuffam,  Miss  H.  Blacklin,  Miss  R. 
Clousin,  Miss  M.  Chaffie,  A.  J.  Mondock, 
M.  A.,  Allen  Weeks,  Miss  Anna  Dunlop, 
of  Minneapolis,  Minn.;  Mrs.  H.  Houghton 
Chaapel,  M.  D.,  Palmetto,  Pla.;  Prank 
Katzung,  Chicago,  111.;  L.  A.  Johnson, 
Waterbury,  Conn  ,  Halvoe  Clauson,  Santa 
Cruz,  Cal.;  A.  S.  Donaldson,  West  Hur- 
ley, N.  Y.  The  letters  are  all  indications 
of  great  interest  in  the  movement  and  the 
preferences  are  chiefly  for  Sonthem  and 
Western  Florida,  Western  North  Carolina, 
Georgia,  Alabama,  New  Mexico,  California, 
Oregon,  Washington,  East  Tennessee ; 
semi-tropical  location,  etc.  The  object  is 
1899 


to  have  a  good  location  both  for  fruit  pro- 
duction and  for  markets ;  a  place  where 
children  can  grow  up  Vegetarians  from  the 
force  of  the  example  of  their  elders,  having 
no  examples  of  flesh-eating  and  slaughter 
before  them.  We  want  at  least  1000  ad- 
herents to  make  the  petition  impressive. 


A  DEBATE. 
On  Friday  evening.  May  26,  a  debate 
before  the  New  York  City  Liberal  Club  on 
the  subject  "How  to  Live,"  was  opened  by 
Hon.  T.  B.  Wakeman  fiivoring  omnivorous 
diet  as  the  best  for  intellectual,  civilized 
man.  Dr.  E.  B.  Foot,  H.  Alden  Spencer, 
Miss  Agnes  Florence  and  others,  in  ten 
minute  speeches,  carried  the  fine  audience 
with  them,  although  the  eloquent  Mr. 
Wakeman  spoke  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Mr.  Spencer,  as  usual,  favored  the  use  of 
food  which  requires  no  cooking,  such  as 
nuts,  wheat  and  fruits.  He  gave  each  of 
the  several  hundred  hearers  samples  of 
shelled  almonds  mixed  whole  winter  wheat 
as  "the best  food  for  the  masses." 


THE  CHEMISTRY  OF  FOOD. 

BY    RBV.  HBNRV   S.  CLDBB. 

Chemistry  in  its  analysis  of  foods  fur- 
nishes very  strong  reasons  for  the  disuse  of 
flesh  and  the  adoption  of  a  fruit,  nut  and 
farinaceous  dietary.  The  accompanying 
table  of  foods  most  commonly  used  in 
America  is  compiled  from  a  much  more 
extensive  one  published  in  May's  Compre- 
kensive  Cookery,  as  Used  in  Various  Hygiene 
Establishments  Throughout  the  World,  sent 
by  mail  by  the  Vegetarian  Society  of 
America,  1023  Fonlkrod  Street,  Frankford, 
Phila.,  cloth  bound,  for  50  cents  a  copy. 
It  contains  1000  recipes.  In  this  work,  the 
time  of  digesting  each  article  is  also  given, 
but  as  this  must  depend  on  the  condition  of 
each  individual  stomach,  we  have   omitted 

,      IDvLlOOglC 


the  figures  pertaining  to  it,  relating,  as  they 
do,  to  physiology  rather  than  to  chemistry. 
The  following  table  contains  the  approx- 
imate chemical  compositions  of  various 
foods. 

R.raw.    S.Ueanied.     B,  boiled.     P,  fried.     K,  hiked. 


^ 

? 

? 

6.4 

ApplMK 

84.9 

ApricoU  R 

B4.5 

M-5 

Bananu  R 

Bt«r  S,B 

70.0 

Bratil  Noti  R 

6.0 

t  li  t|  4!f  l| 


Lentil!  9.  B            11.0 

>J.o 

5S.0 

3.0            3.0 

Uioroul  S,  B         ,i.Q 

u>iK,  Hoi  a,  B    14.0 

&,.<: 

Mllk.o.w,B.B    BS.O 

S-o 

HuMoD  S,  B        66.4 

OruEC  R              86.3 

0.7 

ll.S 

green,  B,  B        jS.s 

PeaoDti  R,  K           70 

Pine  Kernili  R.  K  so 

i».o 

POTk,fre«h.S,B66.o 

31.8           10 

6.3 

Tom«o«  R            860 

3.' 

Turker  S,  B        73  j 

18.3 

6.0           i.d 

13.0 

66d 

JO           44 

The  tiae  of  food  is  to  supply  the  body 
with  elements  required  to  form  the  best  and 
purest  blood  for  the  sustinence  of  the 
human  body.  It  will  be  seen  from  a  care- 
ftil  study  of  the  preceeding  table  that  while 
fruit  consists  of  a  larger  proportion  of 
water  than  beef,  the  diflference  in  this  re- 
spect is  not  mure  than  fourteen  per  cent., 
while,  when  the  character  of  the  water  is 
considered,  it  must  be  conceeded  that  the 
water  in  fruit  is  pure,  which  cannot  be  said 
of  the  water  in  beef  or  other  butcher's  meat 
for  the  reason  that  the  water  in  0esh  con- 
tains much  of  the  effete  matter  which  is 
constantly  passing  away  through  excretion- 
ary  channels  of  even  healthy  animals,  and 


the  water  of  unhealthy  animals  is  still  more 
ofifensive  and  poisonous,  while  the  water  of 
ripe  fruit  is  pure  and  uncontaminated.  As 
water  constitutes  at  least  seventy  per  cent- 
of  flesh,  the  quality  of  the  water  as  com- 
pAYei  with  the  character  of  the  juice  of 
fruits  and  vegetables  is  an  important  con- 
sideration. When  fruit  is  ripe,  the  jnice 
on  it  is  not  contaminated  with  excremen- 
titious  matter  as  the  juice  of  flesh  is,  con- 
sequently it  is  pure  and  wholesome  and 
may  remain  so  until  fermentation  or 
decay  fnsues,  which,  in  well  perfected 
&uit  which  has  substantial  rind,  soch 
as  oranges,  lemons,  apples,  pears  and 
even  plums  and  peaches,  may  not  be  for 
months,  whereas  the  dead  bodies  of  an- 
imals, owing  to  the  excrementitious  mater- 
ial contained  therein,  commences  to  decay 
as  soon  as  the  fatal  blow  is  struck  which 
takes  away  the  life  of  the  animal,  and  un- 
less this  process  of  decay  is  arrested  by 
some  process  of  embalmment  or  salting, 
putridity  ensues  and  poisonous  ptomains 
accumulate  in  the  flesh  with  great  rapidity. 

These  poisonous  elements  are  not  ob- 
jected to  by  the  average  flesh-eater  up  to  a 
certain  proportion  because  the  stimulus 
due  to  the  poisons  produces  a  pleasurable 
sensation :  hence  game  that  has  become 
putrid  or  ripe,  as  it  is  called,  is  often  pre- 
ferred to  fresh  meat,  but  its  ultimate  effect 
on  the  nervous  system  is  most  distressing, 
and  we  have  only  to  visit  any  lunatic 
asylum  to  see  its  dreadful  consequences, 
while  the  nervous  irritation,  so  common  in 
domestic  life  caused  by  the  use  of  flesh,  is 
the  chief  cause  of  domestic  infelicity. 

A  comparison  of  the  chemical  constitu- 
ents of  nuts,  pulses  and  grains  in  the  pre- 
ceeding table  with  those  of  flesh,  will  show 
a  most  decided  advantage  in  those  products 
over  those  of  flesh,  both  as  to  quantity  and 
quality  of  the  nourishment  supplied. 

Diqizodbv  Google 


BREAKFAST. 

Raspberries.  Rice  fritters. 

Hominy. 

Graham  gems.  Cereal  coffee. 

LUNCHEON. 

Green  pea  salad.  Sliced  cucumbers. 

Tomatoes.     Nat  sandwiches. 

Sliced  pineapple.        Sponge  cake. 

DINNER. 

Cream  of  carrots. 

Fried  egg-plant.  Browd  bread. 

Lettuce  and  cress  salad. 

Ice  cream.  Strawberries. 

Rice  Fritters. — Pick  over  and  wash  one- 
half  cop  rice,  pat  it  in  the  top  of  double 
boiler  with  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water 
and  one  level  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  directly 
over  the  fire  nntil  water  is  absorbed,  then 
add  one  cap  of  milk  and  cook  over  boiling 
water  antil  very  soft.  Stir  in  one  roaaded 
tablespoon  batter,  and  one  well-beaten  egg. 
Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  four 
tablespoons  canned  cherries,  stoned  and 
cut  small.  Mix  well  and  tarn  into  a  round 
shallow  tin  to  cool.  When  cold,  divide 
into  six  or  eight  sections,  cover  with  fine 
bread  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  brown 
on  each  side  tn  hot  butter. 

Hominy  as  a  Vegetable, — Wash  two  cups 
of  white  com :  pour  over  it  three  pints  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  come  quickly  to  the 
boiling  point,  stirring  constantly ;  then  add 
a  tablespoonful  and  a  half  of  salt,  and  set 
the  dish  on  the  back  of  the  range,  where  it 
can  cook  very  slowly  all  day ;  stir  it  occa- 
sionally, and  add  more  boiling  water  if 
needed.  The  next  day,  when  ready  to  serve 
make  a  pint  of  cream  sauce  with  one-foorth 
a  cap  each  or  butter  and  flour,  half  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  and  a  pint  of  rich  milk ;  use 
1899 


part  cream  if  convenient.  Stir  into  this 
one  pint  or  more  of  the  cold  hominy,  and, 
when  very  hot,  serve  in  the  place  of  po- 
tatoes. 

Greeu  Pea  Salad. — This  salad  may  be 
prepared  from  peas  left  over  or  freshly 
cooked.  In  the  latter  case,  cook  a  pint  of 
young  tender  peas  with  one  tablespoonfiil  of 
butter,  and  as  little  salted  water  as  possible, 
stirring  constantly  antil  the  peas  are  tender 
and  the  water  has  evaporated.  Set  aside 
antil  cold.  Thoroughly  wash  and  drain  a 
head  of  lettuce,  and  arrange  the  leaves  on  a 
serving-dish.  Wix.  the  peas  with  salad 
dressing  and  place  on  the  lettuce  leaves. 

Cream  of  Carrots.— Boil  young  carrots  un- 
til tender.  Drain  off  the  water  and  mash 
through  a  colander.  Add  milk  thickened 
with  a  little  flour.  Flavor  with  chopped 
parsley  and  season  to  taste.  Return  to  the 
fire  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 
ORCHATA. 

From  Alfred  B.  Weslrup,  18  Marks  Ave- 
nue, Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

In  all  parts  of  Mexico  the  natives  grind 
the  seeds  of  musk -melons  and  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve  to  separate  the  husks.  The 
seeds  are  ground  wet  on  the  primitive  grind- 
ing stone  called  metate ;  the  mass  is  dilated 
with  water  and  sugar  is  added.  The  drink 
is  called  orchata  and  is  very  palatable.  The 
Vegetarian  Milt  would  do  the  grinding  very 
effectually  to  make  this  drink,  I  should 
think. — We  will  try  it  in  the  mnsk-meloa 
season. — Ed, 
CONDITIONS  OF  THE  COCOANUT. 

"There  are  three  stages  through  which 
the  milk  of  the  cocoanut  passes,  in  each  of 
which  it  is  excellent, ' '  said  Captain  Nathan 
Traelove,  master  of  a  trading  craft  in  the 
107 


dbvGoo^^lc 


South  Pacific  Islands.  "The  first  is  when 
the  meat  and  tnilk  in  the  green  cocoanut 
have  not  yet  separated  and  are  blended  to- 
gether in  a  semi-fluid  pulp,  about  the  con- 
sistency of  a  water  ice,  and  may  be  scooped 
out  and  eaten  with  a  spoon.  The  second  is 
when  the  meat  is  newly  hardened  against 
the  inside  of  the  shell  and  the  hollow 
within  is  filled  with  the  cool,  fragrant  milk, 
one  of  the  most  beautiful  and  refreshing 
draughts  that  a  man  can  find  tn  the  tropical 
lands.  The  third  stage,  to  which  few  people 
outside  the  tropics  are  initiated,  is  when 
the  cocoannt  is  sprouting  and  the  embryo 
palm  tree,  formed  from  the  milk,  and  the 
best  of  the  meat  lies  in  the  hollow  that  is 
left,  a  kemal  within  a  kental,  so  to  speak, 
and  one  of  the  daintiest  morsels  that  a  man 
ever  lifted  to  his  mouth." 

THE  APPLE. 

The  old  Scandinavians  believed  that  the 
gods  subsisted  wholly  upon  apples,  and  that 
it  was  through  the  peculiar  properties  com- 
municated by  this  queen  of  fruits  that  they 
acquired  the  wisdom  which  they  imparted 
to  men.  The  acids  of  apples  are  exceed- 
ingly tiseftil  through  their  stimulating  in- 
fluence upon  the  kidneys,  whereby  poisons 
are  removed  firom  the  body,  and  the  blood 
and  tissues  purified.  The  acids  of  apples 
are  all  highly  tisefiil  as  a  means  of  disin- 
fecting the  stomach,  since  the  ordinary 
germs  that  grow  in  the  stomach,  producing 
btliousness,  headache,  and  other  troubles, 
will  not  grow  in  fruit  juice  or  fruit-pulp. — 
Good  Health. 

NEW  YORK  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY 
PICNIC. 

The  New  York  Vegetarian  Society  Pic- 
nic occurred  on  Saturday,  June  17,  at  the 
home  and  grounds  of  Rev.  George  Donald- 
son, Edgewater-on-Palisades,  N.  J.,  amid 
beautiful  Chestnut  Groves.  There  was  a 
good  attendance  of  the  faithful  Vegetarians, 
108 


including  President  Scott,  Vice  President 
Mrs.  Haviland,  Secretary  Haviland,  Treas- 
urer Montgomery,  Mr.  George  Brunswick, 
etal.  Mrs.  G.  W.  Wright,  Mr.  George 
M,  Wright,  Miss  Mary  Horrocks,  and 
Miss  Harriet  Horrocks,  of  Prankford,  rep- 
resented the  Philadelphia  Vegetarian  Socie- 
ty. The  picnic  was  of  the  good  old-fiish- 
ioned  sort,  the  spread  being  on  the  ground 
and  the  guests  seated  around  on  the  grass 
in  the  shade  of  the  noble  chestouts.  We 
did  not  get  a  menu,  but  learned  that  some 
of  the  chief  items  were  egg-plant,  egg  and 
Vegetarian  Society  nut  hotter  sandwiches, 
salad  a  la  Haviland,  pickled  beets,  saUds 
on  lettuce  leaves,  dates,  pecans  and  hazel- 
nuts ground  together,  a  novelty  introduced 
by  the  Havilands ;  plums,  dates,  apricots, 
bananas,  nuts,  cakes,  fruit  crackers,  lemon- 
ade. A  contribution  from  Mr.  Spencer 
consisted  of  one-day's  traveling  rations, 
whole  wheat,  almonds  and  evaporated 
apricots. 

TAMALE  POISONING. 

The  Los  Angeles  Record  reports  the  pois- 
oning of  one  of  the  most  b^tutiful  young 
ladies  in  the  city,  from  eating  tamale.  As 
this  is  not  found  in  Webster,  we  may 
explain  that  it  is  a  little  bundle  of  ham  and 
chicken  chopped ;  also  com-meal  herbs 
and  spices,  the  chief  of  which  is  red  pepper, 
disguising  the  putrid  taste  of  the  meat.  It 
is  neatly  tied  up  in  an  envelope  of  corn 
shuck,  so  as  to  give  it  a  decent  appearance. 
As  the  paper  went  to  press  the  lady  was 
delirious  from  intense  suffering.  The  doc- 
tors all  agreed  that  it  was  caused  by  the 
ptomaine  poison  of  the  decaying  meat. 
Vet  this  it  a  popular  lunch  at  Los  Angeles, 
where  ^its  and  nuts  are  abundant  all  the 
year !  

The  feet  that  Armour  personally  con- 
ducts a  Sunday  School  does  not  make  his 
embalmed  beef  a  particle  less  wicked. — Ex. 


d  by  Google 


f 


WASHINGTON  FOR  VEGETARIANS. 

Mr.  J.  O.  Clark  writes  from  Olalla,  Kit- 
sapCo.,  Wash.,  that  he  has  been  in  Wash- 
ington eight  months  and  the  condition  of 
his  health  required  rest  and  qniet  absolutely 
necessary,  and  this  is  why  he  has  not  been 
heard  from  in  that  time.  He  writes  that  in 
hb  opinion  "a  better  place  for  Vegetarians 
cannot  be  found  than  here.  There  is  no 
fruit  nor  vegetable  of  the  Temperate  Zone 
that  cannot  be  raised  to  great  perfection  in 
Washington,  and  no  climate  in  the  United 
States,  if  in  the  world,  that  is  more  health- 
ful than  the  climate  of  Washington,  and  no 
state  in  the  Union  where  nearly  if  not  quite 
everything  that  a  Vegetarian  would  care  to 
produce  can  be  sold  at  a  better  price.  All 
who  prefer  a  moist  climate  can  find  it  here 
on  the  coast  and  all  who  would  like  a  dry 
climate  can  find  what  they  want  in  central 
and  eastern  Washington." 

It  will  be  remembered  that  Mr.  Clark  ad- 
vertised in  F(X)D,  HoMC  AND  Garden  for 
the  location  he  desired  and  the  lesnlt  was 
that  he  left  Alabama  and  went  to  live  in 
Washington,  and  is  delighted  with  the 
climate  there  as  well  as  the  soil  and  social 
surroundings. 

FRUIT  FROM  CALIFORNIA. 

Mr.  O,  N.  Cadwell,  writing  from  Car- 
penteria,  Cal.,  May  i8,  writes  : 

"I  send  you  a  little  box  of  samples  of 
frTiit ;  two  oranges  from  the  tree  illustrated 
in  the  April  number  of  Food,  Home  and 
Garden,  one  Indian  River  orange,  one 
Eureka  lemon,  several  loquots  and  a  small 
bottle  of  White  Muscat  Grape  Syrup,  made 
of  the  White  Muscat  grape.  I  find  it  very 
pleasing  to  the  taste  when  I  want  something 
sweet.  The  white  grapes  are  cooked,  the 
juice  pressed  out,   brought  to   a   boil   and 


skimmed :  then  add  the  same  weight  of  nice 
sweet  sugar,  again  brought  to  a  boil  and 
then  sealed  hot  in  bottles  or  fruit  jars.  The 
Muscat  Grape  is  very  pltntifiil  in  Cal- 
ifornia. Most  of  the  raisins  are  made  of 
them,  and  a  great  many  are  used  for  table 
grapes.  I  thought  you  would  like  to  see 
and  taste  the  loquot.  They  grow  on  a 
beautiful  evergreen  tree  and  I  send  yon  one 
of  the  leaves.  The  fruit  grows  in  clusters. 
There  are  now  bushels  of  oranges  on  that 
tree  ripe,  and  we  think  very  good  oranges. 
The  tree  is  still  blooming  and  bears  small 
green  fhiit.  The  Indian  River  orange  you 
will  find  to  be  very  thin  skinned,  compared 
with  the  others,   and   a  very  good  fruit." 

The  above  came  with  the  box  of  ftnit 
described,  all  in  good  order.  The  loquot  is 
quite  a  nice  fi^it  and  we  have  planted  the 
seeds.  The  others  are  fully  up  to  the 
standard  of  good  fruit,  and  the  syrup  ex- 
cellent. 
MRS.  THACKER'S  COLLEGE  FARM. 

My  sole  object  is  to  help  establish  better 
conditions  on  earth,  that  the  human  race 
may  be  able  to  see  and  realize  its  higher 
possibilities.  There  is  some  magnificent 
scenery  here  and  I  expect  soon  to  have 
some  pictures  taken.  Here  are  some  of  the 
biggest  live  oak  trees ;  a  waterfall  60  feet 
high;  mauy  beautiful  springs  of  water;  the 
river  (North  Fork  of  the  American); 
mountains  and  snowy  peaks  on  one  side, 
and  sloping  hills  and  valleys  on  the  other. 
On  the  college  grounds  there  is  an  orchard 
of  300  trees  in  full  bearing  of  peaches,  pears 
and  apples.  It  is  a  remarkable  fact  that 
these  mountain  sides  produce  some  of  the 
finest  fruit  in  the  world  wilhoul  irrigation. 
All  kinds  of  nut  trees  flourish  here  and  bear 
abundantly.  Within  titedistance  of  half  a 
109 
Dbi-zsdbyGoOgIC 


mile  from  where  I  write  this  letter  there  is 
a  full-bearing  orchard  of  English  walnuts, 
almond,  chestnut,  peach,  pear  and  prune 
trees.  Also  seven  acres  in  muscat  (raisin) 
grapes,  and  other  trees  and  vines,  and  a  fine 
young  olive  grove.  Water  is  scarce,  but 
the  fruit  grown  here  without  water  is  said 
to  be  richer  and  more  finely  flavored  than 
that  grown  lower  in  the  valley,  where  it  is 
irrigated.  There  are  thousands  of  acres  of 
land  around  here  that  might  be  cleared  off 
and  set  to  fruit  trees.  Fine  wheat  also 
grows  on  these  mountain  sides. 

I  have  200  acres  of  land  here  belonging 
to  the  college  grounds.  Aboat  100  acres 
of  it  is  wild,  steep  and  rocky,  but  the  other 
100 acres,  or  most  of  it,  can  be  cultivated. 
My  idea  is,  as  soon  as  I  can  get  some  co- 
operation, to  set  most  of  this  land  out  in 
olive  trees.  Perhaps  set  two-thirds  of  it  in 
olive  trees  and  the  other  one-third  to  nut 
and  prune  trees.  Thi»  is  to  be  not  only  for 
the  benefit  of  the  college,  but  an  example 
to  the  world,  by  way  of  utilizing  the  nat- 
ural resources  of  the  earth.  Peannts  can  be 
raised  here  whenever  water  can  be  obtained. 
I  think  they  require  irrigation.  There  are 
many  springs  here  which  afford  some 
water ;  also  irrigating  ditches  which  pass 
through  here  carrying  water  to  the  country 
below.  Water  may  be  bonght  from  these 
ditches.  All  kinds  of  berries  grow  here 
when  supplied  with  water. — Sara  Thacker, 
Applegate,  Placer  Co.,  California. 
CITY  POTATO  PATCHES. 

It  is  three  years  since  a  few  gentlemen 
contributed  funds  for  cultivating  vacant 
lots  in  the  city's  suburbs  to  afford  health- 
ful employment  to  peisons  out  of  work . 
The  first  year  one  hundred  lots  of  a  quarter 
of  an  acre  each  were  taken  by  poor  men , 
women  and  children.  The  ground  was 
ploughed  for  them  and  they  were  furnished 
with     fertilizers    and  seeds,  and   a  super- 


intendent gave  them  instructions  in  plant- 
ing, and  caring  for  the  vegetables  raised 
thereon. 

There  was  no  trouble  in  getting  land 
enough.  The  second  year  more  than  doubled 
the  number  of  the  applicants  for  lots,  and 
the  demand  is  still  greater  this  year,  the 
question  now  being  how  to  raise  funds 
to  carry  on  the  work.  Experience  has 
demonstrated  that  for  each  dollar  expended 
by  the  association  the  laborer  in  charge  of  a 
lot  takes  off  four  dollars  worth  of  produce. 
It  is  principally  consumed  by  them,  al- 
though some  is  sold. 

The  advantages  are  twofold.  It  not  only 
gives  employment  to  those  who  would 
otherwise  have  nothing  to  do,  but  it  also 
educates  them  as  agriculturists  and  garden- 
ers. Several  who  have  worked  these  plots 
have  obtained  positions  as  gardeners,  and 
some  have  gone  into  the  country  to  work 
on  farms.  It  is  one  of  the  principles  of  the 
association  not  to  turn  off  a  man  because  h« 
has  bad  habits,  believing  that  his  interest  in 
his  work  will  aid  in  his  reformation.  The 
principle  product  so  for  has  been  potatoes, 
and  the  other  crops  cover  most  of  the  vege- 
tables commonly  seen  in  market. 

The  success  of  the  experiment  has  en- 
couraged the  promoters  to  ask  the  public 
for  tunds  to  extend  its  work.  A  gift  oi$to 
enables  a  family  to  grow  $60  worth  of 
vegetables.  Money  can  be  sent  to  Nathan- 
iel B.  Crenshaw,  Treasurer,  Girard  Trost 
Building,  Philadelphia. — Piila.  Ledger. 
DRIED  BANANAS. 

It  is  found  that  dried  bananas  take  the 
place  of  raisins  in  puddings  very  well,  and 
an  enterprising  firm  in  Queensland  has  sent 
to  the  agent's  general  office,  in  Victoria 
street,  Westminster,  a  consignment  of 
dried  bananas,  with  the  object  of  opening 
up  a  market  for  them  in  England. — Phila. 
Public  Ledger. 


July. 

d  by  Google 


GARTSIDE'S  METHOD  OF  AVOIDING  LA  GRIPPE. 


Our  frieiid  James  H.  Gartside,  of  West 
Philadelphia,  thus  gives  his  experience 
with  last  winter's  epidemic : 

"I  believe  that  man  endowed  by  a  sa- 
preme  being  with  reason,  should  utilize  his 
reason  in  all  things,  especially  his  health. 


JAMBS    H.    GARTSIDE. 


"I,ast  winter  we  had  a  great  many  cases 
of  La  Grippe  and  typhoid  fever  in  West 
Philadelphia,  called  an  epidemic  and  the 
press  attributed  it  to  the  water  supply.  My 
family  consists  of  eight  adults,  four  of  whom 
are  boarders.  I  was  the  only  one  that  es- 
caped the  grippe.  I  never  stopped  using 
the  city  water,  while  the  others  used  ice, 
spring  and  bottled  water  from  supposed 
medicated  springs.  I  stopped  using  meat, 
while  the  others  used  all  kinds  of  meats.  I 
substituted  Peanut  Butter  and  other  kinds 
of  nut  food.  I  reasoned  this  way:  I 
noticed  that  the  doctors  forbade  all  grippe 
patients  from  eating  meats  while  under 
their  care.  In  one  case  the  patient  ate  a 
hearty  meal  of  meat  while  convalescent, 
which  resulted  in  a  relapse  that  came  near 
proving  fatal.  I  reasoned  that  if  it  was 
necessary  to  slop  eating  meat  to  enable  the 


doctor  to  efifect  a  cure,  it  would  be  wise  to 
stop  eating  it  before  he  was  called  in.  It 
would  certainly  assist  the  doctor,  if  not 
prevent  the  necessity  of  calling  him  in. 

"The  reason  I  continued  to  drink  the 
city  water  was  this:  1  knew  the  human 
stomach  would  adjust  itself  to  anything 
that,  by  gradually  increasing  the  dose,  it 
can  be  made  to  retain  enough  arsenic  to 
kill  a  dozen  men  whose  stomachs  had  not 
been  trained  to  the  use  of  this  particular 
drug.  AH  waters  affect  strangers,  while 
-the  same  waters  have  no  eSect  on  the 
natives.  For  this  reason  I  resolved  that  it 
would  be  the  saftest  plan  to  continue  using 
that  water  which  my  stomach  was  adjilstBd 
to. 

"I  had  the  typhoid  fever  while  in  the 
Army  of  the  Potomac,  in  1S63.  I  believe 
it  was  caused,  by  the  eating  of  too  much 
fat  pork.  I  know  that  I  ate  a  ^at  deal 
more  than  the  good  judgment  ofmymother 
would  have  allowed  me  to  eat  while  at 
.  home,  befwre  entering  the  army.  It  is  pos.- 
sible  that  I  would  not  have  eaten  as  much 
meat  had  I  the  variety  of  vegetables  that 
my  stomach  had  been  trained  to  at  home. 
In  other  words,  the  meal  prepared  by  the 
young  man's  mother,  with  its  variety  of 
vegetables,  is  healthful,  while  that  prepared 
by  himself  in  the  army,  with  meat  alone,  ts 
poison.  Reasoning  on  these  -lines  and 
judging  from  my  past  experience,  I  believe 
that  most  of  the  sickness  at  home  and  in 
the  army  is  caused  by  a  sudden  change 
from  a  vegetable  to  a  meat  diet.  It  does 
not  necessarily  need  to  be  canned  beef:  an 
over-dose  of  turkey  will  "produce  the  same 
effect.  You  know  how  yon  feet' th»  day 
after  Thanksgiving  Day.  .  I  hope  t&e^  few 
lines  will  start  others  to  reasoning  but  their 
health  problem." 

Mr,  Gartside  is  engaged  in  the  very 
laudable  endeavor  to  induce  habits  of  clean- 
liness. He  is  the  inventor  of  a  washing 
machine  of  very  simple  construction, 
which,  with  the  use  of  his  soap,  makes 
washing  only  playing  with  soap,  water  and 
clothes. 


d  by  Google 


..:"WIHUow  (Stove  ip»arh.. 


THB   LILY  POND. 

THB  PARK  where  the  Philadelphia  Vegetarian  Society  held  its  picnic  on  June  I5tb, 
1899,  is  worthy  of  permanent  record  and  illustration.  The  ride  to  the  Park  on  the 
trolley  road  is,  all  things  considered,  the  most  varied  and  delightful  trolley  ride  lead- 
ing out  of  Philadelphia.  It  is  along  the  Old  York  road  and  cars  up  Eighth  and  Thir- 
teenth streets  convey  passengers,  for  ten  cents  each,  swiftly  along  between  residences  and 
grounds  that  compare  quite  favorably  with  such  as  adorn  the  soburbs  of  London  aod 
Paris.  The  speed  of  the  trolley,  even  on  the  hottest  summer  days,  causes  a  breeze  to  be 
fielt  which  is  of  itself  a  most  delightful  refreshment  to  the  passengers,  and  even  invalids 
feel  an  invigoratton  that  brings  on  a  healthy  glow.  But  through  the  enterprise  of  its 
promotes,  the  end  of  the  journey  at  Willow  Grove  is  the  climax  of  landscape  beauty 

and  attraction. 

The  general  view,  which  can  be 
taken  from  the  trolley  as  it  passes 
around  the  grounds,  embraces  the  three 
groves,  specially  provided  ^th  kitch- 
ens, water,  tables  and  benches  for  laijje 
or  small  parties;  the  Lake,  with  its 
Electric  Fountain,  Boat  Houses  and 
Gondolas ;  the  Music  Pavilion  the 
Casino,  the  Ladies'  Pavilion,  the 
Theatre,  the  Bicycle  Track  and  Grand 
Stand,  the  Chutes,  the  Gravity  Kail- 
road  and  the  Grand  Pavilion,  where 
the  picnic  and  after  dinner  addresses 
were  made  (see  page  102),  all  combine 
features  of  interest,  and  the  wide 
THE  I3LAND.  Spreading  lawns  and   gravelled  walks 

amid  shrubbery  and  flower-beds,  around 
Lake  and  Lily  Pond,  with  undulations  of  surface  sufGcient  to  cause  variety  of  landscape  at 
every  turn,  with  the  Chelten  Hills  in  the  distance,  make  this  the  most  charming  resort  of 
the  kind  to  be  found  on  either  side  of  the  Atlantic. 

The  view  we  give  from  the  Music  Pavilion  aSbrd  some  idea  of  the  popularity  of  the 
concert  feature  which  is  this  year  made  exceedingly  attractive  by  the  scientific  perfonu- 
aoces  of  the  Banda  Rossa.  The  height  of  beauty  and  fairyland  effect  is  when  the  Christ- 
mas tree  is  lighted  at  night,  the  Electric  Fountain  is  displaying  its  varying  colors  and 
the  band  is  playing  to  the  assembled  multitude. 


.V  Google 


WM.  P.  WILSON, 
Director-Genera!  National  Export  Exposition.    Seep. 


db,  Google 


T.  ANDERSON  HANSON. 


„  Google 


"Vol.  Ill,  NbwSbriks.No.  31-32.         AUG.-SEP.,  1899.  Whole  Number  104-5. 


T.  ANDERSON  HANSON. 


THE  ATTAINMENT  of  eighty  years 
in  good  health  and  spirits  on  the 
twentieth  day  of  last  June  is  what  we 
congratulate  Mr.  T.  Anderson  Hanson 
npon,  and  we  have  given  him  the  place  of 
honor  on  our  frontispiece  this  month  be- 
cause we  Icnow  how  earnestly  he  has  de- 
voted the  latter  part  of  his  long  life  to  the 
cause  of  temperance  in  regard  to  both  food 
and  drink.  It  is  fully  fifty-seven  years  ago 
since  he  pledged  to  abstain  from  intoxicat- 
ing liquors  with  the  understanding  that  if 
he  ever  repented  of  that  act  he  could  writh- 
draw  the  pledge.  But  he  never  had  any 
cause  to  repent;  on  the  contrary,  he  had 
every  cause  to  be  thankful  that  he  had  so 
pledged  himself,  as,  when  aiding  to  subdue 
the  great  conflagaration  at  Hamburg  iu 
May,  184.3,  those  engaged  in  the  same 
work  who  were  supplied  with  liquor,  per- 
ished in  the  fire  they  were  working  to  put 
out,  but  keeping  a  cool  head  saved  him 
from  that  terrible  fate. 

Owing  to  a  railway  accident  in  March, 
1853,  he  became  afDicted  with  sciatica  by 
which  he  seemed  to  be  doomed  to  a  painful 
lameness  for  life,  but  hearing  a  lecture  by 
James  Simpson,  the  first  president  of  the 
Vegetarian  Society,  England,  he  was  led 
to  adopt  Vegetarian  habits  and  after  six 
mouths'  careful  attention  to  his  diet,  during 
which  time  he  visited  Tunis,  he  was  com- 
pletely restored  and  in  splendid  form  and 
1899 


has  had  no  twinge  of  sciatica  since.  He, 
however,  succumbed  to  social  influence  and 
again  became  a  flesh-eater.  As  a  conse- 
quence he  suffered  for  twenty-five  years 
liver  disorders  which  made  life  miserable. 
But  Sylvester  Graham's  Science  of  Human 
Life  came  into  his  hands  and  its  reading 
again  induced  him  to  adopt  a  Vegetarian 
diet.  He  lost  all  his  liver  disorders  and 
for  the  past  twenty  years  has  consistently 
abstained  from  flesh.  He  declares:  "I 
hardly  know  that  I  have  a  liver.  This 
amendment  I  attribute  to  my  change  of 
diet  altogether . " 

At  the  age  of  seventy-two,  in  1891,  he 
had  the  misfortune  to  break  the  fibula  of 
his  left  leg.  The  doctor  told  him  at  that 
age  the  bones  would  not  often  knit.  He, 
however,  kept  to  a  pure  vegetable,  bone- 
forming  diet  and  recovered  so  completely 
that,  after  seven  weeks,  he  traveled  seventy 
miles,  changing  from  'bus  to  rail  without 
assistance.  Since  the  swelling  subsided, 
he  has  had  no  reminder  of  the  fracture.  He 
often  now  walks  ten  and  sometimes  fifteen 
miles  a  day. 

Mr.  Hanson  came  to  America  and  attend- 
ed the  World's  Fair  and  Vegetarian  Con- 
vention at  Chicago  in  1893,  and  was 
exceedingly  active  in  taking  part  in  the 
proceedings  of  that  and  other  conventions 
and  was  fully  equal  to  the  younger  members 
of  his   party  in  exploring  the    American 

'15 


d  by  Google 


continent  and  in  gallantry  to  American 
ladies.  He  says:  "this  restoration  I  at- 
tribute to  my  abstinence  from  fire-water  and 
from  flesh."  Being  troubled  with  a  congh 
in  winter  and  sometimes,  in  a  milder  form, 
in  summer,  and  finding  the  prescriptions  of 
the  medical  profession  of  no  avail,  he 
turned  with  but  little  hope  to  Dr.  Nichols' 
brochure  on  the  "Common  Diseases  of  the 
Day."  There  he  found  the  use  of  tea, 
coffee,  cocoa  and  cheese  discouraged,  as 
irritants  to  the  bronchial  tubes.  He  dis- 
continued them,  and  says:  "I  took  to 
wheat-bran  tea*  and  have  thereby  got  com- 
pletely cured  of  my  cough,  leaving  not  a 
wreck  behind." 

Mr.  Hanson  writes  almost  a  juvenile 
band  for  steadiness  and  concluded  one  of 
his  interesting  letters  thus:  "Fifty-seven 
years  on  alcohol  abstinence  and  twenty 
years  a  Vegetarian,  my  system  seems  far 
from  deterioration  and,  barring  accident, 
I  look  forward  to  being  useful  for  years  to 
come.  I  have  a  good  memory,  a  steady 
hand  and  as  erect  a  gait  as  here  and  there 
one  past  four  score.  I  can  sincerely  rec- 
ommend my  beverage  and  diet." 

Mr.  Hanson  is  treasurer  of  the  Vegeta- 
rian Federal  Union  and,  in  conjunction 
with  Miss  May  Yates,  he  represents  the 
Vegetarian  Society  of  America  in  the 
councils  of  the  Union. 


A  COMMONWEALTH  AT  WASHING- 
TON, D.  C. 
Right  in  the  heart  of  the  Capital  City 
there  is  a  society  called  the  "Common- 
wealth," the  thirty  members  of  which 
range  from  4  years,  the  age  of  the  youngest 
member,  to  72,  that  of  the  oldest.  Twenty 
years  ago  this  society  was  started  in  Belton, 

•for  mipe  for  Bran  Tn  and  fiftji  olher  iiicful  teelpea. 
ace  pamphlet  of  the  Vafctartan  Society  UII1.  pkbi  on  >p- 
pUcalionbr  postal  card  toibeVcK'UTifiDSocielv  ofAmeilca, 
mi  PoullcnHtStrvel.  stall  on  F,  Philadelphia. 


Texas,  a  town  about  200  miles  from  Gal- 
veston. Under  the  leadership  of  Mrs. 
McWhorter  a  plan  was  drawn  np  and  ap- 
proved. Since  that  time  they  have  lived 
together  like  one  large  family,  sharing 
everything  in  common.  They  opened  an 
hotel  in  Betton  called  the '  'Commonwealth, ' ' 
which,  though  at  first  disliked  by  the 
townspeople,  soon  won  the  approval  of  the 
travelling  public.  Another  hotel  was 
opened  at  Waco,  which  was  equally  suc- 
cessful. Their  worldly  goods  increased 
and  they  took  turns  in  travelling;  engaged 
in  philanthropic  and  educational  work  and 
helped  others  start  in  life.  Uist  autumn  the 
"Commonwealth"  decided  to  remove  to 
Washington,  and  the  community  has  bought 
a  fine  piece  of  property  on  Kenesaw  avenue 
near  Fourteenth  street.  The  house  is  being 
repaired  and  enlarged  and  when  completed, 
each  peison  will  have  a  separate  room,  and 
there  will  be  parlors,  reading  rooms,  dining 
room,  school  and  play  rooms  for  the  young- 
er members.  The  community  owns  a 
horse  and  carriage.  They  live  economical- 
ly, but  well,  and  each  one  takes  whatever 
recreation  she  chooses.  Everything  is  sys- 
temized  so  thoroughly  that  there  is  little 
restraint  upon  tiie  members,  who  lead  their 
own  individual  lives  to  a  remarkable  degree. 
As  Mrs.  McWhorter  says:  "We  try  to  fol- 
low nature's  laws.  We  are  living  for  the 
good  of  each  other,  and  whenever  possible 
try  to  do  good  to  others.  We  elect  to  give 
people  an  opportunity  to  work  for  them- 
selves, to  open  up  a  way  for  them  to  earn 
their  own  living  rather  than  give  them 
alms."— V.  B.  in  Philadelphia  Ledger. 

The  use  of  the  pronoun  "she"  indicates 
that  this  is  a  commonwealth  of  females 
only,  but  we  are  not  sure  it  is  so.  We  like 
the  plan  of  "living  individual  lives."  The 
drawback  on  communities  usually  is  the 
restraint  on  personal  freedom. 

August-September, 

D.n..  I. V Google 


MAKING  PEANUT  BUTTER. 
There  are  di&eretit  methods  of  making 
this  much  talked  of  batter.  Some  boil 
the  nuts  with  oil,  some  with  water.  Some 
steam  them.  Some  roast  them  in  large 
cylinders,  which  cause  their  own  steam  to 
penetrate  the  nuts.  Btit  we  carefnlly  bake 
them.  We  prefer  this  method  because  it 
preserves  the  richness  and  parity  of  the 
not.  But  we  do  not  bake  them  to  a  dark 
brown,  bnt  just  sufficient  to  loosen  the  skins 
and  partially  free  the  oil,  so  as  to  cause  it 
to  blend  with  the  l^rinaceous  portion  of  the 
□at  in  forming  a  soft,  creamy  or  buttery 
substance.  We  add  nothing  to  the  nuts  by 
baking  and  therefore  do  not  detract  from 
their  natural  sweetness.  They  are  cooked 
jnst  enough  to  make  them  easy  of  digestion 
and  not  browned  so  as  to  be  like  fried  food 
(an  objection  made  by  some  to  the  toasting 
process).  Even  water  or  steam  injures  the 
keeping  quality  and  will  canse  the  butter  to 
become  rancid.  Some  manufacturers  retain 
the  brown  skins  of  the  nut,  grinding  them 
altogether.  This  lessens  the  labor,  but  it 
detracts  from  the  flavor  and  purity.  Then 
to  disguise  the  bitter  flavor  of  the  skin,  salt 
is  added,  supposing  that  it  will  be  the 
means  of  preventing  the  butter  from  becom- 
ing rancid.  This  again  detracts  flivm  the 
parity  and  delicate  flavor  of  the  product. 
The  skin  of  the  nut  is  a  preservative  of  the 
kernal,  but  if  ground  up  with  It  introdnces 
a  very  objectionable  element  which  not. 
only  injures  the  flavor  by  its  bitterness,  but 
detracts  from  the  keeping  quality.  Then, 
if  a  nut  be  burnt  or  scorched  as  in  roasting, 
it  introduces  a  kind  of  cinder  and  ashes, 
which  also  detract  from  the  keeping  qual- 
ities of  the  butter.  In  our  process  all 
scorched  nuls  are  eliminated.  Indeed,  the 
scorching  is  usually  prevented  by  carefal 
baking. 
The  art  of  making  pure  peanut  butter  is  as 


much  a  matter  of  thoughtful  care  as  the  art 
of  churning  the  gilt-edge  dairy  butter  of 
the  special  dairy  farmers  who  obtain  double 
price  for  their  product. 

We  believe  pure  peanut  butter  will  be 
found  far  superior  to  Cod  Liver  Oil  or  even 
Olive  Oil  for  anaemic  and  consumptive 
patients,  and  we  would  be  pleased  to  bear 
its  results  when  tried  in  such  cases.  Ab- 
solute   purity    is    the    true    secret  of  our 


DR.  MUSSEY'S  VISIT  TO  ENGLAND. 

BY  T.  ANDERSON  HANSON. 
The  March  issue  of  Food,  Home  and 
Gakdbn,  containing,  as  it  does,  a  very  cor- 
rect likeness  of  Dr.  Mussey,  whom  I 
remember,  reminds  me  of  him  as  a  guest  of 
my  father-in-law  at  Bradford,  Yorkshire. 
Although  my  father-in-law  had  not  discov- 
ered the  advantages  of  a  fleshless  diet,  as 
had  his  guest,  the  two  fraternized  well,  for 
in  the  year  1846,  they  were  both  able  to 
look  back  upon  the  many  years  they  had 
been  as  medical  men,  eye  to  eye  on  the 
drink  question.  In  June,  1827,  Dr.  Mussey 
read  an  address  on  ardent  spirits  before  the 
New  Hampshire  Medical  Society.  Ur. 
Mussey,  in  one  of  his  addresses,  asks: 
"What  is  a  poison?"  and  replies:  "It  is 
that  substance  in  whatever  form  it  may  be 
which,  when  applied  toa  living  surface,  dis- 
concerts and  disturbs  life's  healthy  move- 
ments. It  is  altogether  distinct  from  sub- 
stances, which  are,  in  their  nature,  nutri- 
tious. It  is  not  capable  of  being  converted 
into  food  and  becoming  a  part  of  the  living 
organs.  We  all  know  that  proper  food  is 
wrought  into  our  bodies ;  the  acton  of 
animal  life  occasions  a  constant  waste,  and 
new  matter  has  to  betaken  in  which,  after 
digestion,  is  carried  into  the  blood  and  then 
changed:  but  poison  is  incapable  of  this. 
It   may  indeed   be   mixed  with   nutritious 


117 

d  by  Google 


substances,  but  if  it  goes  iuto  the  blood,  it 
is  thrown  off  as  soon  as  the  system  can  ac- 
complish its  deliverance,  if  it  has  not  been 
too  far  enfeebled  by  the  influence  of  the 
poison.  Such  a  poison  is  alcohol — such  in 
all  its  forms,  mix  it  with  what  you  may." 

I  had  an  idea  that  Dr.  Mussey  paid  a 
later  visit  to  this  country  than  to  the 
World's  Temperance  Convention,  held  in 
London  in  1846,  but  although  I  have  con- 
sulted Mr.  Robert  Rae  and  the  Rev.  Daw- 
son Burns,  I  cannot  establish  the  fact ;  the 
latter  tells  me  that  he  died  on  June  zi, 
1866,  at  the  age  of  86. — 77  Amersham  R., 
New  Cross,  London,  S.  E.,  April  15,  1899. 


COMING  OVER. 
I  suppose  it  will  seem  rather  strange  to 
receive  a  letter  from  a  meat-eater  in  defence 
of  the  Vegetarian  system,  but  nevertheless 
here  we  are.  I  received  the  February 
issue  of  Food,  Home  and  Garden  and 
thank  you  for  the  favor.  I  recognized  my 
father's  autobiography  and  portrait  and 
was  pleased  with  them.  I  have  always 
been  an  eater  of  meat,  but  I  hope  and 
expect  to  give  it  up.  I  am  seriously  think- 
ing of  becoming  a  Vegetarian,  as  I  believe 
it  is  the  best  and  most  healthy  way  to  live. 
Every  time  I  sit  down  to  a  meal  of  which 
meat  forms  a  part,  I  cannot  help  asking 
myself  if  it  is  a  proper  article  for  food. 
My  mind  or  reason  answers  no  in  spite  of 
every  other  argument.  It  seems  to  me  as 
if  it  were  a  sort  of  legalized  cannibalism 
that  has  found  favor  with  the  public  gener- 
ally, but  I  think  it  will  in  time  become  a 
thing  of  the  past,  especially  among  the 
more  enlightened  people.  Why  should  the 
flesh  of  one  creature  be  any  more  fit  to  eat 
than  that  of  another?  Why  not  eat  crows 
and  buzzards  ?  They  certainly  are  not  any 
more  filthy  than  chickens  or  hogs.  But 
why  should  we  take  the  life  of  any  creature 
118 


that  has  just  as  much  right  to  live  and  en- 
joy this  life  as  we  have?  Is  it  not  to  satisfy 
a  gross  and  carnivorous  appetite?  There 
are  an  abundance  of  things  which  nature 
provides  us,  in  the  line  of  vegetation,  on 
which  we  can  well  exist  without  resorting 
to  the  criminal  practice  of  slaughtering 
innocent  creatures.  This  is  a  subject  to 
which  I  have  heretofore  given  but  very 
little  thought  although  I  have  always  heard 
my  &ther  advocate  it,  but  hereafter  I  intend 
to  investigate  it,  us  I  think  it  is  a  great 
benefit  to  all  who  adopt  it,  both  morally 
and  physically.  I  will  close  by  saying  : 
May  the  health  and  blessings  of  a  Vegeta- 
rian life  be  and  remain  with  you  all.  Amen. 
— G.  E.  Dickie,  River  Rouge,  Wayne  Co., 
Michigan. 


FROM  SKEPTICISM  TO  CONVICTION 
We  have  been  the  strictest  Vegetarians 
for  the  past  six  years.  The  refining  and 
elevating  influence  of  Vegetarianism  is  be- 
ing daily  exemplified  throughout  the  length 
and  breadth  of  the  civilized  world.  I  first 
started  as  a  skeptical  experiroentor,  but 
soon  discovered  that  I  had  unvailed  a 
necessity.  Very  few  understand  that  meat 
is  a  powerful  stimulant  to  the  sensitive 
nerve  tissues  and  like  alcohol  or  other  pow- 
erful stimulants  that  have  been  constantly 
used  for  a  long  period  of  time,  to  be  re- 
moved, causes  a  great  relaxation.  The 
vital  forces  having  become  so  accustomed 
to  act  under  these  strained  conditions,  are 
at  first  apt  to  be  disturbed,  as  with  the  in- 
ebriate. The  sensational  desires  which 
amount  almost  to  passion  in  some  cases, 
must  be  entirely  ignored  in  overcoming 
any  powerful  stimulant  until  the  system 
can  readjust  itself  to  the  new  conditions. 
Health  improves,  vivacity  and  vitality 
increases  and  the  expense  of  living  greatly 
decreases.     Add  to  this  moral  and  spiritual 

August-September, 


.Google 


caltare  and  that  person  stands  above  the 
vkissitndes  of  ordinary  life.  The  once 
stupefied  conscionsness  now  being  illum- 
tniLted  goes  oat,  with  a  whole-soul  desire,  to 
aid  others  to  rise  out  of  the  death-dealtng 
flesh-pots  and  show  them  by  example  the 
real  sacrifice  flesh  eating  imposes  upon  the 
world. — ^J.  A.  Martin,  3212  Madison  street, 
Seattle,  Wash. 


IS  CHEESE  VEGETARIAN  DIET.? 
We  all  know  that  we  can  use  milk,  butter 
and  eggs  without  taking  life,  but  not 
cheese.  Whan  I  was  a  girl  I  saw  a  great 
deal  of  cheese  made,  among  Connecticut 
farmers.  The  inside  linings  of  the  stomachs 
of  animals  are  cleaned  thoroughly,  then 
put  in  strong  brine  for  a  certain  length  of 
time.  It  is  then  taken  out  of  the  brine, 
stretched  on  frames  and  dried,  then  pat 
away  for  use.  When  a  cheese  is  made, 
the  milk  is  heated  to  blood-warm,  a  small 
piece  of  the  dried  stomach- lining  (or 
rennet,  as  it  is  called)  is  cut  off  and  pat  to 
soak  in  warm  water ;  this  water  is  strained 
into  the  warm  milk  and  when  it  is  cold,  it 
is  turned  to  thick  card.  There  are  two 
kinds  of  rennet  on  the  market  for  making 
junkets  fi'om  sweet  milk :  in  a  liquid  form 
and  one  in  form  of  tablets.  I  presume  they 
are  both  made  from  animal's  stomachs  in 
some  way,  bnt  I  do  not  know  positively. 
I  do  not  think  Vegetarians  would  make  use 
of  cheese  if  they  knew  how  it  was  made.  I 
know,  as  I  have  seen  the  whole  process  of 
cheese-making  and  have  often  assisted  in  ic 
when  I  was  a  girl.  It  was  not  until  I 
became  acquainted  with  my  present  hus- 
band that  I  knew  what  Vegetarianism 
really  is,  and,  now  that  I  do  know,  I  want 
to  do  all  I  can  for  the  cause. — Hannah  E. 
Siddons,  P.  O-  Box  61,  Harrison,  N.  Y. 


See  Dr.  Reinhold's  ad.  of  Vegetarian  board. 
1899 


VEGETARIANISM.— A    NECESSITY 
OF  PROGRESSIVE  LIFE. 

BY   DAVID   S.  CADWALLADBR,  PHILA.,  PA. 

Vegetarianism  is  a  deep-seated  principle 
of  human  life — of  injinile  life — and  cannot, 
consequently,  be  ignored  by  the  trviy  pro- 
gressive mind  at  this  stage  of  human  devel- 
opment. To  see  such,  it  is  no  longer  a 
matter  of  speculation  or  doubt,  but  a  real, 
tangible  and  intuitive  scientific  fact,  based 
npon  a  close  study  and  a  correct  knowledge 
of  the  divine  laws  of  our  being,  both 
individually  and  socially,  spiritual  sov- 
ereignty. It  is  the  legitimate  result  of  a 
divine  unfoldmeut  of  the  human  sool  to 
more  exalted  conditions  of  conscious  exist- 
ence :  a  veritable  expression  of  the  indwell- 
ing spirit  of  growth  or  the  spiritual  law  of 
necessily. 

In  the  universal  economy  of  life  there  is 
no  practical  substitute  for  it,  therefore  man, 
sooner  or  later,  by  virtue  of  his  inhsrent 
powers,  must  become  a  Vegetarian,  To 
the  truly  inspired  soul  and  scientific  mind, 
there  can  be  no  doubt  about  the  necessary 
and  persistent  ontworkings  of  this  divine 
principle  of  human  life. 

Vegetarianism  as  a  science  of  the  sool, 
an  art  of  life,  requires  a  patient  study  or  a 
spiritually  receptive  mind,  or  both,  is  order 
to  fully  comprehend  its  true  mission  on 
earth — life.  Infinite  life — the  holiness  ol 
being — dictates  the  true  course  of  all  human 
life,  and,  in  fact,  of  all  life,  as  its  integral 
or  individualized  parts,  and  there  can  be  no 
deviation,  with  impunity,  from  its  wise  and 
impartial  requirements  to  the  end  of  human 
perfection,  preparatory  to  the  final  re-union 
of  the  human  with  the  divine  in  the 
universal  centrality  of  being. 

Let  each  and  all  diligently  study  and 
become  master  of  this  problem  of  life,  and 
thereby  introduce  a  new  and  necessary  spoke 
in  their  wheel  of  human  progress. 

tt9 
Digitized  by  Google 


Pood,  Home  and  Qarden. 


Oa«  9ub*ctlption 


$»S. 


The  watermelon,  from  seed  to  rind,  is  an 
antidote  for  kidney  and  liver  troubles. 
Every  part  is  valnable.  The  thick  rind 
makes  an  excellent  preserve  and  the  seeds, 
dried,  keep  well  and  can  be  used  as  a  tea 
all  the  year.  They  can  be  ground  in  the 
Vegetarian  Society  Mill. 


We  are  glad  to  see  that  Dr.  Reinhold  has 
taken  a  larger  house  at  873  Lexington  ave- 
nue. New  York,  where  he  not  only  treats 
chronic  cases  with  water,  hot  air,  wet 
sheet,  massage,  etc.,  but  will  be  able  to 
accommodate  transient  and  regular  boarders 
with  Vegetarian  fare. 


The  Dnkhobors  now  located  in  Manitoba 
are  an  example  of  strong,  stalwart  men  and 
women,  who  have  voluntarily  and  from 
conviction,  adopted  a  Vegetarian  diet  for 
many  years  and  in  a  severely  cold  ciimate, 
with  evident  advantage  to  their  health  and 
vigor.  We  understand  they  now  number 
7.500- 


It  is  a  common  practice  with  those  who 
attack  Vegetarianism  to  take  the  position 
of  a  single  writer  as  a  genuine  exposition 
of  Vegetarianism :  there  is  a  great  variety 
of  independent  writers  on  this  subject,  none 
of  whom  are  entitled  to  be  recognized  as 
exponents  of  anybody's  theory  but  their 
own.     Nor  do  they  claim  that  they  are. 


Dr.  Amadeo,  a  Porto  Rican  physician, 
is  quoted  in  the  /w/^r  Occaw,  Chicago,  as 
claiming  that  his  own  countrymen  have 
weakened  under  a  compulsory  Vegetarian 
diet,  caused  by  high  tariffs,  and  are  longing 
for  the  delightful  canned  or  "embalmed" 
beef.  This,  no  doubt,  is  a  canard  gotten 
up  in  the  interests  of  the  great  Chicago 
industry. 


The  Newburyport  Daily  News  contains 
an  able  letter  from  Mr.  J.  A.  Wilson,  of 
Amesbury,  Mass.,  embodying  the  first  15 
items  of  the  Vegetarian  Synopsis.  We  will 
be  happy  to  supply  a  copy  of  the  Sjmopsis 
to  any  one  who  will  procure  its  insertion  in 
a  local  newspaper  or  magazine. 


In  addition  to  the  articles  ennmerated  in 
our  twelve-page  pamphlet  as  productions  of 
the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill,  we  may  add  a 
very  superior  article  of  Fruit  Butter,  by 
which  fruit  sandwiches  may  be  added  to  the 
picnic  and  lunch  menu,  a  pint  can  of  which 
will  be  sent  by  mail  on  receipt  of  50  cents. 


Sir  Henry  Thompson  is  quoted  as  say- 
ing that  no  form  of  vegetable  nourishment 
has  ever  been  found  on  which  it  is  possible 
to  rear  an  infant,  milk  being  excluded. 
How  about  Mellin's  Food  for  Infants?  Bnt 
does  it  follow  because  we  subsist  on  milk  in 
infancy  we  must  eat  the  mother  in  maturity  ? 


Mrs.  Siddons  article  on  cheese  is  Umely. 
Dr.  Kellog's  objection  to  cheese  is  that  it  is 
a  nursery  of  microbes  and  is  usually  infested 
wilh  them.  Now  that  nut  cheese  has  been 
described  by  so  good  an  authority  as  Mrs, 
Korer  and  is  m»dein  our  nut  butter  dairy, 
there  is  no  excuse  for  taking  animal  cheese. 


The  first  meeting  of  the  Chicago  Vegeta- 
rian Co.  was  held  July  t2th,  when  the  fol- 
lowing directors  were  elected:  President, 
Clarence  S.  Darrow :  Vice  President,  Dr.  F. 
N.  Doud;  Secretary,  Addison  Blakely; 
August-September, 


0 


Treasurer,  C.  P,  Johnson :  Manager, h.H. 
Snyder;  Miss  Francis  E.  Dosenberry  and 
Mrs.  Fairchild  Allen  complete  the  Board 
of  Directors.  This  is  a  list  of  good  workers 
who  will,  we  trust,  keep  the  good  catise 
alive  in  Chicago. 

LIVED  TILL  HIS  95th  YEAR. 
Daniel  F.  Tieman,  who  was  mayor  of 
New  York  City  in  1858-59,  we  are  informed 
on  good  authority,  was  a  Vegetarian  the 
last  thirty  years  of  his  long  life.  He  was 
bom  January  9,  1805,  and  died  Jane  29, 
1S99.  By  adopting  a  Vegetarian  diet  he 
long  outlived  all  the  associates  of  his  active 
political  life.  He  voted  for  Andrew  Jack- 
son and  William  McKinley. 

DR.  KELLOGG  IN  ENGLAND. 
Dr.  J.  H.  Kellogg,  of  Battle  Creek, 
Mich.,  was  cordially  received  by  a  crowded 
andience  at  Memorial  Hall,  London,  Eng., 
June  15th,  and  delivered  one  of  his  char- 
acteristic addresses.  We  are  glad  to  see 
Dr.  Kellogg  has  so  completely  won  the 
hearts  of  English  Vegetarians.  Mr.  Arnold 
Hills  occupied  the  chair  and  paid  a  deserved 
and  graceful  tribnte  to  the  lecturer.  He 
also  visited  Manchester,  where  he  was 
similarly  welcomed. 


AMERICAN  VEGETARIAN  COLONY. 
We  have  received  a  large  accession  to  our 
list  of  petitioners  to  Congress  for  an  appro- 
priation of  land  for  a  Vegetarian  Colony, 
bnt  we  need  many  more.  Send  ns  the  names. 
Those  who  know  of  a  suitable  a\\s,  govern- 
ment land,  will  please  report  location  and 
description  of  the  same,  to  aid  in  selecting. 


ROBERT  INGERSOLL. 
The  A'ijrM /Iw^nVaa  remarks  that  "Ing- 
ersoll  was  a  good  deal  Oriental.  He  hated 
meat-eating  and  vivisection.  'Every  time 
a  piece  of  meat  goes  between  my  lips  I  am 
ashamed  of  myself,'  he  said.  He  would 
not  consciously  shake  the  hand  of  a  vivi- 
sector."  Robert  IngersoU's  name  was,  for 
some  time,  on  our  subscription  list.  Had 
he  followed  his  evident  convictions  on  the 
subject  of  food,  his  life  of  kindness  and 
charity  would  probably  have  been  much 
extended.  Many  lives  are  sacrificed  by  not 
obeying  these  higher  impulses. 

1899 


DR.  WILLIAM  E.  A.  AXON. 
We  congratulate  our  learned  friend  Dr. 
William  E.  A.  Axon,  Manchester,  Eng- 
land, on  receiving  the  honorary  degree  of 
LL.  D.,  from  Wilberforce  University,  at  its 
recent  commencement.  Mr.  Axon  is  a 
member  of  the  Vegetarian  Society  ot  Amer- 
ica, Vice  President  of  the  Vegetarian  Soc- 
iety, Manchester,  and  literary  editor  of  the 
Manchester  Guardian,  Vegetarian  Messen- 
ger, etc. 


INDIVIDUAL  FREEDOM. 
The  success  of  the  Commonwealth  Com- 
munity now  located  at  Washington,  D.  C, 
is  owing  to  the  individual  freedom  enjoyed 
by  the  members.  The  failure  of  most  com- 
monwealth communities  is  attributable  to 
the  mles  affecting  personal  freedom  which 
soon  become  irksome  when  applied  to  daily 
life.  When  the  law  of  love  is  written  on 
the  heart,  other  laws  become  unnecessary 
and  with  this  law  there  is  the  truest  liberty. 


BLOODGUILTINESS. 
We  have  received  a  copy  of  the  New 
Republic,  Washington,  D.  C,  containing  a 
strong  protest  against  war  and  killing  by 
Caroline  A.  Blodgett.  It  also  hints  that  the 
inhuman  practice  of  detroying  life,  both 
animal  and  human,  prevents  the  fruition  of 
the  second  advent  and  that  event  cannot 
occtir  until  Christ's  followers  shall  lay 
asidR  their  bloodguiltiness  and  adopt  in 
practice,  aswell  as  profession,  the  lawof  love. 


d  by  Google 


MRS.  THACKER'S  CABIN. 
Our  friend  Lindeman  says  the  log  cabin 
where  Mrs.  Sara  Thacker  lives  is  in  a 
canyon  2000  feet  below  the  site  of  the 
Esoteric  Colony  which  adjoins  her  40  acres, 
and  that  the  sun  seldom  shines  there  until 
mid-day.  Mrs.  Thacker  has  160  acres 
nearby,  in  addition,  which  together  form  the 
200  acres  of  her  proposed  ideal  colony.  He 
further  says  Mrs.  Thacker  is  a  good  neigh- 
bor to  the  colony. 


VEGETARIAN  LABOR  EXCHANGE. 

We  have  received  from  Mrs.  N .  E.  Arnold, 
Daytona,  Florida,  a  draft  of  the  proposed 
Vegetarian  Colony  to  form  a  branch  of  the 
Labor  Exchange.  Its  preample  declares 
that:  "Whereas,  19 centuries ofChristianity 
as  taught  by  the  flesh  eating  and  money- 
worshipping  schools  of  thought,  have  failed 
to  effect  a  a  satisfactory  general  condition, 
either  of  health  or  morals  -.  and  whereas, 
isolated  individuals,  in  attempting  to  stem 
the  tide  of  public  opinion  and  desire  meet 
so  much  opposition,  that  tt  seriously  inter- 
feres with  their  success  for  themselves  and 
children ;  Therefore,  we  the  undersigned 
do  hereby  join  together  promising  to  do  all 
we  reasonably  can  to  promote  the  plan 
herein  stated,  renonncing  any  legal  right 
we  may  liereafter  obtain,  to  take  anything 
from  the  colony  necessary  to  its  welfare." 

The  object  is  stated  as  "self- government 
according  to  the  divine  standard  (Matt.  ?2  : 
37-40)  for  the  highest  good  of  all,  by  freeing 
its  members  from  want  and  the  fear  of 
want,  furnishing  the  means  of  cultivating 
individual  talents  and  carrying  on  such 
business  as  will  best  promote  the  individual 
and  corporate  interests,  and  through  them 
the  best  interests  of  the  world  at  large, 
until  we  can  secure  the  complete  banish- 
ment of  everything  that  tends  to  degrade 
and  demoralize  mankind ;  its  members  shall 
live  together  on  such  terms  as  are  apparent- 


ly best  adapted  to  individual  freedom,  hap- 
piness and  development." 

The  bye-laws  appear  to  be  carefully  drawn 
and  are  probably  well  adapted  to  start  the 
organization,  but  are  too  much  in  detail  for 
our  apace.  The  reference  to  diet  in  them  b 
as  follows:  "The  members  of  Pranana 
Branch,  No. — ,  shall  alt  be  persons  who 
have  reached  the  point  in  higher  develop- 
ment where  they  realize  that  in  'liberty  and 
the  pursuit  of  happiness, '  there  is  no  place 
for  flesh-eating,  alcohol,  tobacco  or  any 
other  narcotic,  or  for  immorality,  and  desire 
to  live  up  to  their  convictions." 


PIGEON-SHOOTING  WOMEN. 
The  editor  of  Our  Animal  Friends  is 
amazed  at  the  fact  that  women  are  entering 
the  lists  to  contest  with  men  in  the  sport  of 
shooting  pigeons,  and  cannot  understand 
how  it  is  that  refined  and  educated  women 
take  such  delight  in  this  and  other  cruel 
sports,  involving  suffering  and  death  to 
thousands  of  harmless  and  beautifiil  creat- 
nres.  We  can  easily  see  how  it  is,  but  Our 
Animal  Friends  seldom  touches  upon  the 
subject,  which  is  this :  women  are  taught 
by  their  physicians  that  they  must  eat  '  'rare 
beefeteak"  in  order  to  nourish  their  bodies, 
and  the  taste  of  blood  has  become  a  daily 
habit  with  them,  and  this  engenders  love  of 
cruelty  and  excites  the  animal  passions, 
and  instead  of  being  angels  of  mercy  and 
almonors  of  divine  love  for  all  creattucs. 
beautiful  women  are  becoming  fiends  incar- 
nate in  their  delight  at  shedding  innocent 
blood.  Why  does  not  Our  Animal  Friends 
strike  at  the  root  of  the  evil,  instead  of 
lopping  ofi*  the  twigs?  Why  complain  of 
women  encouraging  the  killing  of  birds  for 
adornment  and  say  nothing  of  their  en- 
couragement of  the  slaughter  of  harmless 
and  inofiiensive  cows,  oxen,  sheep  and 
lambs,  by  eating  butchers'  meat  'i 

August-September. 

oogle 


LUNCHEON  MENU. 

Corn  oysters.       Baked  potatoes.       Olives. 

Bean  salad.     Nasturtium  salad. 

Nat  sandwiches.         Fruit  sandwiches. 

Blackberries.      Cunants. 

Com  Oysters. — Neither  millc  nor  floor 
should  be  used  in  making  com  oysters. 
Grate  the  com  half  through  the  grains,  and 
scrape  out  the  pulp  carefully.  To  each 
eight  ears  so  prepared  add  two  eggs  well 
beaten  (not  separately),  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  and  a  salbipoonful  of  pepper.  If  ;the 
com  is  too  milky  to  hold  in  shape  while 
frying,  add  some  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Fry 
in  hot  nutcoa  in  a  spider,  dropping  in  the 
batter  in  spoonfuls,  oyster  shape. 

Bean  Salad. — Boil  young  string  beans, 
either  the  green  or  the  wax,  until  tender. 
Put  them  in  boiling  salted  water.  When 
done,  drain  and  throw  them  into  cold 
water.  When  cold,  dry  on  a  towel,  cut 
them  into  pieces  lengthwise  and  mix  with 
dressing.  Let  them  get  very  cold  before 
serving  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Nasturtium  Salad. — Slice  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  peeled  ripe 
tomatoes  and  about  half  the  quantity  of 
fresh  bunch  onions.  Pluck  fresh  nasturtium 
blossoms  and  tender  young  leaves,  both 
with  long  stems,  and  arrange  them  around 
a  glass  bowl.  Then  place  the  vegetables 
in  the  bowl  in  alternate  layers,  pour  French 
dressing  over  the  whole,  and  stand  on  ice 
for  one  hour.  At  the  moment  of  serving, 
toss  all  together.  For  the  dressing  allow 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  quarter  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  quarter  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  to 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil.  Bleud  the 
1899 


salt  and  pepper  well  with  the  oil  and  add 
vinegar  little  by  little. 

Fmit  Sandwiches. — Spread  fruit  butter 
on  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  or  take 
fresh  fruit  slightly  crushed,  sprinkle  lightly 
with  sugar.  Raspberries,  currants  or  any 
small  fruit  are  good  for  the  purpose. 
VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  MILL. 

PROGRESS   IN   CONSTRUCTION. 

An  extensive  cor- 
respondence with  Veg- 
etarians and  hygien- 
ists  in  various  parts  of 
the  country  in  regard 
to  their  wants  and  de- 
sires led  us  to  the  con- 
clusion that  a  much 
lighter  mill ,  constract- 
edon  thesame  centrif- 
ugal principle  so  as 
ew,  then  to    readily   discharge 

»w  out  •pinille  and  Rrlnd-  ■'  " 

iosdiak.  the    nut    butter    and 

other  soft  products  likely  to  choke  up  other 
mills,  was  greatly  needed.  The  mills  we 
have  hitherto  sold  are  constructed  for 
strength  and  durability,  and  they  weigh  so 
much  that  they  can  only  be  shipped  by 
freight  which,  as  at  present  managed,  is 
both  slow  and  expensive,  and  so  we  have 
been  looking  for  a  skilled  mechanic  who 
could  construct  a  mill  that  would  be  light 
in  weight  and  easy  to  run.  Surely  Phila- 
delphia could  furnish  such  a  man ! 

After  much  searching  we  have  found  a 
mechanic  who  has  been  making  mills  for 
grinding  com  and  other  useful  purposes, 
with  plates  toothed  on  the  same  principle 
as  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill.  He  has 
studied  up  the  subject  of  grinding  dry 
123 


d  by  Google 


bread  into  crumbs  and  was  selling  a  little 
mill  for  this  purpose.  The  grinding  of 
nuts  was  called  to  his  attention  and  by 
several  modifications,  he  has  produced  a 
mill  weighing  less  than  athird  of  the  weight 
of  the  mill  we  have  been  selling,  as  de- 
scribed io  our  pamphlet  on  the  Vegetarian 
Society  Mill,  but  which  will  grind  grain  or 
nuts  as  desired. 

The  use  of  ball  bearers  where  the  greatest 
friction  would  occur,  has  made  this  mill 
run  very  light,  adapting  it  to  the  use  of  ladies 
and  children,  who  can  turn  it  with  ease  and 
rapidity.  We  have  been  thoroughly  test- 
ing this  mill,  and  after  strengthening  it  in 
its  weakest  parts  by  heavier  castings  and 
some  other  modifications,  we  have  conclud- 
ed to  put  this  mill  on  our  list  of  mills  as 
especially  adapted  to  persons  living  in  re- 
mote parts  of  the  country  wherever  they 
can  be  reached  by  mail,  and  we  will  pay 
the  postage.  It  is  capable  of  being  divided 
into  two  or  three  parts  and  each  part  can  be 
sent  by  mail,  although  the  whole  mill 
would  be  too  heavy  to  send  in  that  way. 

By  this  improvement  our  customers  are 
relieved  of  the  impositions  and  exorbitant 
charges  by  express  and  fest  freight  com- 
panies and  we  can  send  by  kind  Uncle  Sam 
a  mill  to  any  part  of  the  United  States, 
postage  prepaid,  for  the  sum  of  five  dol- 
lars. The  same  mill  will  be  sent  by  ex- 
press to  nearby  localities  on  receipt  of  four 
dollars,  expressage  to  be  paid  on  delivery. 
This  will  apply  to  places  where  a  ten-pound 
package  would  be  carried  by  express  for 
less  than  one  dollar. 

The  same  description  of  mill,  only  much 
larger,  adapted  for  manufacturing  for  sale, 
with  either  a  fly-wheel  for  hand-power,  as 
shown  in  the  engraving,  or  a  pulley  for  a 
belt  to  be  run  with  engine  or  motor,  without 
the  iron  frame,  as  shown  in  the  cut,  will 
cost  $2$,  and  with  the  frame  or  iron  stand. 


$35.     In  this  case   the  freight  from  Phila- 
delphia will  have  to  be  paid  by  the  receiver. 


As  to  the  capacity  of  this  improved  mill, 
it  is  nearly  the  same  as  that  of  the  mill  we 
have  hitherto  sold,  the  ball  bearings  ena- 
bling the  operator  to  run  it  faster  with  as 
little  expenditure  of  power. 

The  reader  now  has  a  choice  between  the 
heavy  mill  and  the  light,  and  bis  choice 
must  be  according  to  circumstances.  Both 
are  good  mills.  The  heavy  mill  will  last  a 
life-time  with  little  or  no  repairs  and  the 
light  mill  may  occasionally  require  a  new 
set  of  plates  or  a  new  part,  which,  however, 
can  always  be  obtained  at  moderate  cost 
by  mail,  all  the  parts  being  light  and  mail- 
able. 

Persons  in  doubt  as  to  their  choice,  writ- 
ing their  special  wants,  requirements  and 
conveniences  to  us,  we  will  use  our  best 
judgment  sending  them  the  mill  best  suited 
to  their  requirements,  the  amount  to  be  sent 
for  the  hand  mill  being  the 'same  in  both 
cases  except  in  nearby  localities. 

A  ugust -September, 


v  Google 


f 


RDEN 


COCOANUT  JUICE. 

The  juice  drawn  from  the  undeveloped 
flowers  of  the  cocoa  palm  just  before  their 
budding,  is  sweet  and  pleasant  to  the  taste, 
and  is  often  given  to  sickly  or  weaning 
children. — Captain  Truelove. 
ALMONDS  IN  SOUTH  CALIFORNIA. 

Almonds  are  high  priced  because  they 
require  a  warm  climate,  &ee  from  frost. 
Southern  California  seems  to  be  the  home 
for  this  splendid  nut  and  its  culture  will 
add  immen.sely  to  the  wealth  of  that  state. 
But  there  is  land  in  Southern  Texas  and 
Southern  Florida  well  adapted  to  this 
culture. 

PECANS. 

These  are  the  finest  of  American  nuts. 
They  grow  nantrally  in  the  Southern  States 
and  are  most  prolific  there,  but  some  are 
now  grown  as  &r  north  as  New  York  and 
even  Michigan.  Cultivated  pecans  are  said 
to  produce  a  bushel  of  pecans  the  tenth 
year  after  planting  the  seed,  and  they  in- 
crease their  crops  yearly  afterwards.  The 
pecan  grows  to  be  a  very  large,  handsome 
tree  and  would  be  ornamental,  if  allowed 
its  natural  shape. 

PUBLIC  FRUIT  CULTURE. 

The  Vegeiarian  Messenger  states  that  in 
the  Kingdom  of  Saxony  every  street  which 
admits  it,  is  planted  with  fruit  trees  and 
these  are  let  out  by  the  government  at  an 
annual  rental,  producing  a  revenue  last 
year  of  $40,535.  Now  that  Philadelphia 
has  a  forester,  why  not  also  have  a  pomolo- 
gist  and  have  all  vacant  spaces  in  our 
streets  planted  with  chestnut,  walnut, 
cherry  or  some  other  suitable  fruit  tree? 
They  would  improve  the  streets  and  bring 
a  good  return. 

1899 


GOOD  FOR  THE  BOYS. 

We  tried  the  experiment  this  year  of 
planting  sweet  peas,  uasturtions,  cosmos, 
etc.,  outside  the  front  fence.  We  were 
warned  that  the  boys  would  gather  them 
as  fast  as  they  bloomed,  bnt  although  sur- 
rounded by  boys,  not  a  flower  has  been 
gathered  without  our  permission,  and  the 
boys  have  sometimes  helped  in  their  culti- 
vation and  preservation. 

A  NEW  BERRY. 

The  IVashingion  Star  is  authority  for  the 
statement  that  a  new  fruit  called  the  coral 
berry  is  slowly  beginning  to  make  its  way 
into  the  Eastern  markets.  It  comes  from 
California  and  is  said  to  be  an  improvement 
even  on  the  luscious  strawberry.  It  is 
acidulated  and  extremely  aromatic.  It 
grows  on  a  bush  and  is  enclosed  in  a  burr. 
When  it  begins  to  ripen  the  burr  opens  and 
the  flaming  red  berry  appears.  The  foliage 
of  the  bush  is  of  a  lovely  silvery  hue.  At 
present  the  fruit  is  a  little  difficult  of  trans- 
portation owing  to  its  ripeness  and  succu-  ' 
lent  nattire. 

THE  COMMON  DOCK. 
From  Richard  MiddUton,  Germanlown. 

Mr,  F.  W.  Jackson,  of  Walmsby  street, 
Stalybridge,  writes  with  reference  to  the 
paragraph  in  last  week's  City  News  on  this 
subject:  "The  common  dock  has  been  used 
as  a  fomous  medicine  for  many  years.  I 
am  the  holder  of  the  following  recipe 
which  I  will  allow  you  to  print  for  the 
benefit  of  suffering  humanity.  It  is  my  sole 
property  and  is  a  cure  for  dyspepsia  and 
indigestion.  Procure  half  a  pound  of  red 
dock  leaves  and  mix  with  one  pound  of 
good  tea.  Let  your  dock  leaves  be  thor- 
oughly dried.  Then  use  like  ordinary  tea." 

125 

Digitized  by  Google 


'^^^ 


LARGE  CHERRIES. 

We  have  received  from  Mr.  S.  H.  Carna- 
han,  College  Place,  Washington,  a  basket 
of  cherries  of  the  Royal  Ann  and  Black 
Republican  varieties.  We  counted  forty- 
two  large  cherries  on  a  six-inch  branch 
of  the  beautiful  Royal  Ann,  a  bright  red 
cherry.  The  college  of  Vegetarian  students, 
located  at  College  Place,  appears  to  be  in  a 
country  rich  in  fruitfulness.  We  are  glad 
that  the  college  continues  to  flourish  as 
it  deserves  to. 

IMPROVED  CHESTNUTS. 

A  grafting  of  the  Japanese  chestnut  on  to 
the  common  American  chestnut  stock  is 
producing  a  fine  large  chestnut  tree  bearing 
a  large  nut  which  partakes  of  the  good 
qualities  of  both  varieties.  The  hillsides 
of  Pennsylvania  are  many  of  them  covered 
with  a  prolific  growth  of  American  chest- 
nuts. It  would  be  easy  to  buy  up  these 
lands  and  graft  the  trees  with  the  Japanese 
chestnut  and  thereby  secure  quick  results. 
They  ripen  quite  early, 

COPRA. 

It  is  in  the  production  of  copra  that  the 
cocoa  palm  has  its  chief  commercial  value. 
Copra  is  the  meat  of  the  cocoanut  dried  for 
export,  to  be  used  in  making  oil.  In 
earlier  times  the  South  Sea  natives  grated 
the  cocoannt  meat  and  expressed  the  oil 
themselves  in  a  rude  lever  press,  to  barter 
with  cruising  traders  for  tobacco,  liquor 
and  trinkets.  Now  the  meat  is  cut  by 
them  into  such  size  and  shape  as  will 
enable  them  to  pack  it  to  the  best  advantage 
and  is  mostly  sent  to  regular  ports  of  ship- 
ment. The  copra  is  shipped  to  Europe  or 
America  to  factories  where  the  oil  is  ex- 
pressed to  be  applied  to  a  variety  of  uses. — 
Captain  Truelove. 

This  method  prevents  rancidity  as  copra 
will  keep  sweet. 
126 


S.  CALIFORNIA  FOR  A  COLONY. 

Miss  M.  E.  McGraw  writes  from  San 
Francisco:  "Yes,  indeed,  yon  may  depend 
upon  me  as  a  signer  to  your  petition,  aad  I 
will  ask  all  my  Vegetarian  acquaintances 
(including  Mr.  Diamond)  here  in  San  Fran- 
cisco to  sign  for  you  also.  I  vote  for  South- 
ern California  as  the  locality.  That  is  the 
very  place  I  mentioned  to  you  in  my  last 
letter  as  especially  suited  for  a  Vegetarian 
Colony.  Nuts,  &uits,  olives,  etc.,  grow 
there  naturally." 
GROWING  NUTS  IN  CALIFORNIA. 

California  is  said  to  produce  more  than 
two  million  pounds  of  English  walnnts  a 
year  and  great  quantities  of  almonds,  fil- 
berts and  hognnts,  and  the  business  ts 
increasing.  Other  states  are  following  the 
example  of  California,  so  that  we  may  hope 
these  valuable  nuts  will  eventually  form  the 
staple  food  of  the  people  of  this  country. 
There  will  then  be  no  excuse  for  killing  our 
gentle  neighbors,  the  cow,  the  ox;  or  the 
sheep  to  obtain  nitrogenous  food. 
NUT  GROWING. 

We  have  frequently  niged  the  culture  of 
nuts.  The  demand  for  nuts  is  increasing 
more  rapidly  than  the  supply,  consequently 
prices  are  advancing.  Peanuts,  being  an- 
nuals, are  productive  of  profit  in  a  few 
months  from  planting  and  for  those  who 
cannot  afford  to  wait,  are  the  nuts  to  begin 
with,  as  many  crops  can  be  harvested  be- 
fore other  nuts  come  into  bearing- 

Good  Health  advises  the  planting  of  nut 
trees  and  affirms  that  a  nut  orchard  is  as 
profitable  as  an  orchard  of  peaches  or  apples, 
or  the  trees  can  be  made  to  grow  on  hill- 
sides that  are  too  steep  for  other  cnltore: 
that  walnut  trees,  cbestoats,  butternuts, 
etc.,  are  being  planted  on  the  stormy  hill- 
sides of  New  England  that  were  considered 
worthless  for  agricultural  purposes. 
August-September, 

Lin..  I , Google 


«>-    3^    g    M    * 

S  u  3  «  tt  -S  ., 

■filss.a  s" 


o 

M 


o 

a. 

M 


2  O  *  n    ■'5'3 

g  _,  -  a  g>  >  o 

rail  is! 

gS  «  3  S  I  ji 

OQO-ffiii?  A 
«j5  ^■O  cuS 

►."  i  ".s-o"^ 


H 

■a 
I 

I 
1 


1  Si  * '"  S  2 

w  =  S  a  §-3  g 

u  "  o  g  S  'g  -S 
SiSS- „fi 

5    !«    hAb 


Inl 


„  Google 


^5  S  S-S  aSS  ; 
1 3  "  "  5-  i  i  iJ 


,  o  a  B  o  S]"  = 


1^1 


i- 3'     3  B  S.  3-  a  : 


^»  B  S.IS-S. 


«3  8  3  S  a  o  o. 


i3??P 


SSf 


•  a.    a -o  r 


^4  2. 


3  s  B  S  o^  o  a  o  g-g 

w  i*^-^  S.  2,  c.  S.  S -o  - 


?  *?        S  ff  ST  B- 

.;  Google 


THE  POTTS  PRINTING  HOUSE. 


db,  Google 


HARVE'  ALDEN  SPENCKR. 


d  by  Google 


■p©©B.  ji©^B  ^K®  g-^]^bbK- 


Vol.  Ill,  New  Series,  No.  33. 


OCTOBER,  1899. 


Whole  Number  106. 


HARVE  ALDEN  SPENCER'S 
.    AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 


A  SUBJECT  fraught  with  more  stirring 
iucidetits  than  those  in  my  own  life 
might  iuspire  better  efforts  in  prepar- 
ing a  brief  sketch  to  enlist  attention  of 
critical  readers  of  Food,  Home  and  Gar- 
den. 

In  business  in  New  York  for  the  last 
twenty  years,  I  am  known  as  H.  A.  Spencer, 
yet  in  literature  and  reform  movements  my 
name  reads  H.  Alden  Spencer:  my  full 
name  is  as  in  the  above  title,  and  as  printed 


under  my  medallion,  sculptured  by  David 
S.  Jones,  Esq.,  of  New  York.  He  is  the 
chief  sculptor  of  The  Art  Memorial  Co.,  of 
which  I  am  the  humble  president.  It  is 
just  to  say  of  Mr.  Jones  that  the  greatest 
renown  due  him  as  a  sculptor  comes  from 
his  design  and  execution  of  the  noble  statue 
called  Cuba  Libre. 


To  be  well  born  is  fortunate  but  to  be 
well  made  is  a  daily  responsibility  devolv- 
ing mainly  upon  one's  self,  since  every  part 
of  body  and  brain  is  replaced  every  seven 
years.  When  we  realize  that  the  wonderful 
convolutions  of  the  human  brain  unfolded 
will  cover  300  square  feet,  then  indeed  must 
we  consider  the  processes  of  its  betterment 
and  constant  replacement  a  duty  requiring 
the  wisest  discrimination. 

Since  birth,  February  6,  1838,  at  Geneva, 
Ohio,  and  especially  after  twelve  years  of 
age,  my  life  has  been  a  busy  one,  mainly  in 
the  leading  cities,  north,  south,  west,  and 
east.  I  am  the  fourth  son  of  Piatt  R.  and 
Persis  Duty  Spencer.  The  free  Spencer 
Memorial  Library  in  my  native  town  is  in 
honor  of  my  deceased  parents.  They  were 
among  the  early  pioneer  reformers  in  the 
use  of  Graham  bread.  It  is  my  purpose  to 
endow  said  library  with  means  to  sustain  a 
Spencerian  Hall  and  have  as  a  part  of  its 
mission  the  furnishing  instruction  by  lect- 
ures and  otherwise  as  to  what  constitutes 
"the  best  life- foods."  Of  course  people  can 
subsist  on  almost  any  organic  substances  if 
they  have  plenty  of  fresh  air  and  water,  but 
to  really  live  and  have  the  most  perfect  re- 
productive life-power,  they  should  consume 
those  nutritious  products  which,  rising  in 
their  growth  above  the  soil  into  pure  air  and 
cooked  into  ripeness  by  the  sun,  are  of  the 
choicest  and  purest  order.  Hearing  my 
mother,  when  I  was  a  child,  speak  of  the 
beneficence  of  a  man  heralded  as  "Johnnie 
Appleseed,"  who  traveled  on  foot,  distrib- 
uting apple  seeds  to  be  planted  along  the 


■  dbyGoogfc 


f  FOOD  HONEv^"^  GARDEN! 


borders  of  highways,  I  became  impressed 
with  the  idea  of  the  peerless  benefit  to  the 
millions  if  the  masses  would  take  up  the 
mission  as  to  food-trees,  vines,  etc.,  to  the 
end  that  all  avenues  of  travel  might  be 
rendered  more  beautiful  and  useful.  As  we 
all  have  ownership  of  great  wealth  in  at 
least  the  endless  roadways  of  the  nation, 
the  vast  strips  of  land  in  the  waste  borders 
should  be  fully  utilized  and  the  products  be 
free  for  the  benefit  of  all. 

While  in  England  I  noticed  with  much 
interest  that  gardens  were  planted  in  former- 
ly barren  places,  almost  up  to  the  rails  of 
railroads  leading  into  Ivondon.  In  some 
parts  of  Germany  fruit  is  raised  on  roadway 
borders  and  annually  sold  to  the  highest 
bidders  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  treasury. 

The  Spencerian  founded  by  my  father  up- 
wards of  half  a  century  ago,  became  the 
pride  and  model  of  the  schools,  and  at  the 
present  time,  in  publication  of  regular  slant 
and  vertical  writing,  reaches  nearly  all 
students  of  English  in  the  world  of  education 
and  business.  In  connection  with  these 
works  personal  instruction  has  been  given 
by  me  in  the  past  to  upwards  of  half  a 
million  students.  I  have  often  improved 
opportunities  in  my  instruction  to  speak  of 
the  advantages  of  living  on  nuts,  cereals 
and  fruits,  instead  of  consuming  the  dead 
forms  of  quadrupeds,  fowls  and  fish. 

Practical  sanitary  methods  instituted  by 
the  lamented  Col.  Geo.  E.  Waring  have,  in 
their  influence,  saved  multitudes  of  lives  all 
over  the  world.  Sanitary  science  as  to  best 
life-foods,  widely  made  known,  would 
lengthen  the  lives  of  millions.  It  is  a 
mission  to  which  duty  seems  to  call  me. 
The  courts  frequently  engage  my  services 
as  expert  and  counsellor  in  cases  of  ques- 
tioned handwriting.  The  solution  of  such 
intricate  cases  has  become  easier  to  me 
since  I  became  a  Vegetarian.  Judge  Lynn, 
of  New  York,  says,  in  part,  as  follows: 
"Mr.  Spencer  was  employed  by  us  in  a 
noted  case  of  alleged  forgery,  in  which  he 
overmatched  seven  opposing  experts."  As 
a  student  at  Hiram  College,  the  afterwards 
President  of  the  United  States,  James  A, 
Garfield,  was  my  instructor.  His  tutorage 
did  not,  however,  make  me  politically  sue- 

132 


cessful.  Being  naturally  an  independent, 
I  was  never  of  his  party.  After  studying 
law  I  became  a  resident  of  New  Orleans  as 
a  teacher  and  subsequently  received  appoint- 
ment as  Judge,  to  hold  court  at  Donaldson- 
ville,  but  refused  to  wear  the  official  robes 
when  required  to  mortgage  them  by  making 
the  Governor  a  constant  custodian  of  my 
resignation .  Becoming  a  resident  of  Texas 
a  lew  years  later,  upwards  of  100,000  votes 
were  cast  for  me  for  State  Comptroller; 
afterwards  I  was  tendered  a  nomination  for 
Lieut.  Governor,  and  also  one  for  Congress, 
but  declined,  as  I  was  then  changing  resi- 
dence to  New  York.  In  New  York,  I  was 
regularly  nominated  for  Congress,  in  1888, 
in  the  8th  District,  but  was  badly  defeated 
by  the  treachery  of  bossism  and  machine 
politics.  The  latest  political  platform  from 
my  hand  reads  as  follows  in  one  of  the 
planks : 

"Free  Food-bearing  Trees,  Vines  and 
Flowers, 

Borders  of  Highways,  Streets  and  Bou- 
levards and  Portions  of  Parks  to  be  Planted 
with  Food-bearing  Trees  and  Flowers  Af- 
fording Abundant  and  Perfect  Food  for  all." 

The  Governors  of  several  states,  in 
answer  to  my  letters,  promise  to  lay  this 
matter  before  their  respective  state  legis- 
latures to  have  planting  oti  Arbor  Days 
embrace  also  the  planting  of  food  producing 
trees.  This  plank  is  being  sent  to  many 
political  conventions  to  arouse  agitation 
with  the  hope  that  it  may  finally  be  adopted. 

Of  my  five  sisters  and  five  brothers,  two 
sisters  and  three  of  my  brothers  are  now 
living.  As  the  only  Vegetarian  among 
them,  ray  early  demise  was  predicted  eleven 
years  ago,  when  I  gave  up  eating  the 
bodies  of  dead  animals,  also  quit  the  use  of 
tea,  coffee,  chocolate  and  tobacco.  I  regret 
that  my  whole  life  has  not  known  the  boon 
of  living  on  natural  foods,  instead  of  those 
less  valuable  by  reason  of  nial-nutrition.  If 
I  were  to  seek  matrimonial  alliance  it  would 
be  with  a  lady  devotedly  consistent  as  a 
Vegetarian.  She  would  not  need  to  be  a 
cook,  for  that  is  really  the  high  prerogative 
ofthesun,which  matures  all  fruits  and  seeds. 

Although  weighing  over  200  pounds,  my 
health  seems   perfect  and  my  strength  is 

October, 


™|PH^W^BJ^W 


FOOD  HOME^^  GARDEN j 


greater  than  most  athletes.  Nuts,  cereals 
and  fruits  are  my  chief  diet ;  yet  sometimes 
I  use  raw,  whole  wheat  alone,  with  water, 
and  greatly  enjoy  it.  Mixing  nuts  with 
grains  of  wheat  gives  a  delightfully  flavored 
repast,  which  becomes  a  superior  banquet, 
if  you  add  to  the  meal  choice  fruits.  Those 
who  lack  teeth  for  the  healthy  exercise  of 
thoroughly  masticating  substances,  should 
grind  the  wheat,  oats,  barley  or  other  grains 
in  a  handmill  and  eat  them  within  the  same 
hour,  while  the  vital  phosphorus  so  essen- 
tial to  the  brain  is  present.  American  raw 
cereals  steeped  are  superior  for  making 
warm  drinks  to  either  tea,  coffee  or  choc- 
olate and  cost  much  less.  Fresh  water, 
however,  without  ice,  is  the  only  fluid  that 
immediately  enters  the  circulation  in  due 
proportion  to  cleanse  and  purify  the  blood. 
Among  all  the  endless  food  organisms  there 
is  no  doubt  but  that  the  grain  of  unground, 
undistilled  wheat  is  the  perfect  standard 
upon  which  one  can  be  abundantly  well 
fed  at  a  cost  of  less  than  $10  a  year.  To 
form  the  habit  of  living  upon  it  or  on  any 
other  one  thing  requires  some  months  of 
slow  change  and  experience  It  is  much 
superior  to  rice  upon  which  three-fourths  of 
the  human  family  live. 
■  A  piece  of  meat  or  even  an  egg  be- 
comes putrid  with  decay  in  a  few  days 
while  the  golden  grains  of  wheat,  kept  dry, 
will  not  perish  for  thousands  of  years  and 
will,  in  fruitful  soil  reproduce  its  species 
many  fuld  and  yield  to  the  hand  of  labor 
annually  more  millions  of  wealth  than  all 
the  mines  of  so  called  precious  metals. 
Fortunately  the  best  foods  for  man  cost  the 
least  in  money  and  toil ;  and  if  the  world's 
industries  were  devoled  to  the  production  of 
necessaries  only,  its  surplus  energies  could 
go  to  build  better  homes  amongthe  masses, 
provide  more  comfortable  clothing  and 
more  liberal  education. 


One  of  our  correspondents  says  she  finds 
that  when  discussing  Vegetarianism  with 
any  one  who  raises  flimsy  objections  to  it, 
she  finds  it  best  to  declare  her  aversion  to 
flesh-eating  and  that  is  an  unanswerable 
argument  Nothing  can  argue  a  woman 
out  of  an  aversion. 


A  SUMMARY   OF  VKGETARIANISM. 

BY    REV.  WM.  PENN    ALCOTT. 

IN  THE  Bible  our  Creator  teaches  the  best 
diet:  "God  said,  Behold  I  have  given 
you  every  herb  bearing  seed,  which  is 
upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree 
in  the  which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding 
seed ;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat."  (Gen. 
1 :  2Q.)  Some  expounders  explain  anything 
in  other  Scriptures  seemingly  inconsistent 
with  this,  by  "accommodation," — as  with 
divorce  (Matt,  ig:  8).  or  by  "kenosis" 
(Phill.  a:  7,  see  the  Greek).  On  the  testi- 
mony of  early  historians,  Matthew  and  Peter 
were  Vegetarians,  also  James  "the  Lord's 
brother,"  first  head  of  the  Church.  Com- 
pare mauna  and  quails  as  food  (Numb.  1 1 : 
18 — 35)  and  read  Daniel  i.  Fruits,  nuts, 
grains,  legumes  and  vegetables  are  our  best 
food. 

Revelation  is  confirmed  by  Science,  (a) 
Comparative  Anatomy:  man  is  near  the 
anthropoid  apes  which  eat  fruit  and  nuts. 
Our  "canines"  are  even  smaller  than  theirs. 
Man's  nails,  tongue,  bands,  intestines  and 
blood,  point  to  vegetable  food  {Linnoiis, 
Cuvier,  Owen,  Lawrence,  Bell.)  (b)Chem- 
ical  Physiology:  the  saliva,  gastric  juice 
and  excretions  confirm  this  view.  So  does 
(c) Embryology  {Scklicheysert).  (d)  "It  may 
be  accepted  as  a  fair  deduction  from  the 
Anatomy  and  Physiology  of  man,  and  more 
especially  from  his  dentition,  and  from  his 
want  of  natural  weapons  of  attack  and  de- 
fence, that  he  must  at  first  have  been  fru- 
givorous  (Dawson),  (e)  Development  theo- 
ries confirm  this  (Darwin,  Hseckel).  (0 
Chemistry  shows  that  all  elements  essential 
to  health,  are  contained  in  the  diet  of 
Paradise  (Liebig,  Playfair,  Church,  Dun- 
can, Atwater).  (g)  Medical  Science, 
through  Drs.  H.  Thompson,  N.  B.  Carpen- 
ter, B.  W.  Richardson.  E.  Smith,  Keith, 
declare  flesh-food  unnecessary.  It  is  only 
nutriment  at  second-hand,  generally  half 
excrementitious  matter,  the  remainder  ve- 
nous blood,  tissue  exhausted  and  so  'twice 
dead, 'stimulating  poisons  (ptomaines,  etc  ), 
and  a  small  residuum  of  value,  (h)  So  tes- 
tifies Biology,  (i)  Zoology  names  as  the 
strongest  animals,  the  elephant,  ox,  horse, 
camel,   gorilla.      The  lion   and  tiger  See 

133 

Digitized  by  Google 


from  the  enraged  buSalo.  Camivora  would 
starve  without  fangs,  claws,  cuntiing. 
The  polar  reindeer  and  musk-ox  find  vigor 
in  lichens  and  sedges,  and  the  former  lives 
where  Eskiuio  dogs,  fed  on  flesh,  die  from 
cold  and  exhaustion.  Reindeer  can  make 
a  daily  journey  two  or  three  times  as  great  as 
a  dog-team  (Harris  U.  S.  Report  on  Alaska). 
(j)  There  is  argument  in  the  instincts  o/ 
<-A/7rf/-f«,  fairly  tested:  Kreophagy  is  there- 
fore unnecessary,  unnatural,  undesirable. 
******* 

A  high  authority  on  longevity  (Hufe- 
land)  says:  "Rich  and  nourishing  food  and 
an  immoderate  use  of  flesh  do  not  prolong 
life.  Instances  of  the  greatest  age  are  to 
be  found  among  those  who  from  their 
youth  lived  principally  on  vegetables  and 
who  perhaps  never  tasted  flesh."  Examples 
of  Vegetarian  longevity  are  John  Wesley, 
who  died  at  88,  a  tremendous  worker  to  the 
last;  Adam  Ferguson,  aged  93.  Superior 
health  and  immunity  from  disease  may  be 
shown.  John  Hotvard's  experience  is  in 
point,  also  the  testimony  of  Drs.  Copeland, 
Rush.  Rees.  Many  facts  indicate  that  a 
large  part  of  ailments  could  be  cured  by 
a  fruit  diet,  and  the  remainder  mitigated. 
Quicker  recovery  is  asserted  by  Dr.  Allinson 
and  others.  "Wounds  in  Turkish  and 
Zulu  bodies  close  as  if  by  magic"  (/. 
Smith). 

On  this  diet  we  escape  epidemics  and 
the  diseases  of  childhood,  or  have  them  in 
mild  forms.  "Parturition  without  pain"  is 
nearly  realized  on  fruits  and  an  ont-door  life. 

Inshort,  "it  is  probable  that  the  health 
and  mental  and  bodily  vigor  of  the  inhab- 
itants of  temperate  climes  are  more  attrib- 
utable to  this  food  fwheat)  than  to  any 
other  single  canse"  {Foods,  E.  Smith). 

In  northern  Europe  the  Finns,  while  liv- 
ing mainly  on  the  products  of  the  soil,  be- 
came a  race  of  large  and  good  physique. 
superior  to  the  more  carnivorous  Lapland- 
ers. Eskimo  and  Fuegians,  flesh-eaters 
altogether,  are  low  types,  small,  consump- 
tive, short-lived. 

"The  diseases  of  animals  which  render 
their  flesh  unfit  for  food  are  very  numer- 
ous," says  Dr.  A.  M.  Davis.  He  specifies 
fifteen.     English  butchers  assert  that,  if  all 

134 


unhealthy  meat  were  rejected,  England 
could  not  be  supplied.  Nor  could  America. 
Therefore  no  inspection  will  save  us  from 
danger.  Question  farmers,  cattle  dealers, 
etc.,  for  a  sickening  argument  against  such 
food.  "Putrescent  alterations  are  much  less 
likely  to  take  place  with  respect  to  vegetable 
than  to  animal,  food"  (Prof.  Beanmetz). 
"All  suffering  of  any  creature  just  before  it 
dies  poisons  the  meat"  (G.  T.  Angell). 

Greater  enjoyment  of  food  is  one  blessing 
of  the  simple  diet  which  ours  should  be. 
Cornaro  at  80  said  :  "My  palate  nowrelish- 
es  better  the  simple  fare  I  eat,  than  the 
most  delicate  dishes  when  I  led  an  irregular 
dietetic  life,"  Of  bread  he  says:  "I  find 
such  sweetness  in  it  that  I  should  be  afraid 
of  sinning  against  temperance  were  it  not 
for  my  being  convinced  of  the  absolute 
necessity  of  eating  it."  Epiatrus  himself 
said:  "Simple  fare  can  give  a  relish  equal 
to  the  mostexpensive  luxuries."  We  invite 
to  an  epicurean,  not  to  an  ascetic,  diet. 

Here  the  prevention,  alleviation  and  cure 
of  intemperance  find  potent  aid.  Graham  gave 
up  flesh  eating  through  seeking  causes  of 
the  drink  evil.  Miss  Fowler  and  C.  O.  G 
Napier  have  elaborated  this  argument. 
"The  story  of  intemperance  everywhere  is 
the  story  of  heavy  over-eating  of  animal 
food  in  highly  seasoned  forms.  *  *  The 
man  who  can  eat  plain  food  with  relish  is 
in  no  danger  of  falling  a  victim  to  alcohol." 
(HelenCampbell.  See  Rom.  14:  21).  Some 
vigorous  nations  are  large  consumers  ol 
flesh  and  intoxicants,  but  to  neither  do  they 
owe  their  power.  The  Chaldeans,  Persians, 
Assyrians,  Greeks  and  Romans,  in  their 
ages  of  conquest,  used  little  of  either.  (Raw- 
linson,  etc.).      Compare  the  Eskimo. 

The  saving  of  labor  and  expense  is  not  to 
be  overlooked.  "Making  meat  from  grass 
or  grain  is  costly.  *  *  The  protein  of 
beef  is  several  times  as  expensive  as  that  of 
flour."  (Atwater,  U.  S.  Agr.  Rep.). 
"Twenty-two  acres  of  land  are  needed  to 
sustain  one  man  on  fresh  meat."  Under 
wheat  that  land  will  feed  42  people,  under 
oats  88;  under  potatoes,  maize  or  rice,  176; 
under  the  banana,  over  6000.  The  crowded 
nations  of  the  future  must  abandon  flesh- 
eating  for  a  diet  that  will  feed  more  than 
October, 


d  by  Google 


ten-fold  people  by  the  same  soil,  expense 
and  labor.  Hach  sheep  in  Australia  needs 
2}i  acres  (Ballon)  How  rich  men  will 
be  when  they  cease  to  toil  for  flesh-meat, 
alcohol,  drugs,  sickness  and  war ! 

Slavery  to  the  stomach  is  the  heaviest 
bordea  working  men  bear  and  makes  riches 
a  curse.  Vegetarianism  may  free  woman 
in  large  measure  from  the  suicidal  drudgery 
of  A^r  life.  "By  sowing  frugality  we  reap 
liberty,  a  golden  harvest."  What  abundant 
resources  for  ministering  to  the  needy,  would 
follow  a  simpler  and  more  healthful  diet ! 

So  great  is  the  inlellectual  advantage  that 
many  authors,  like  Walter  Scott,  have  fore- 
sworn flesh-meat  while  engaged  in  "high- 
thinking."  Out  of  a  "great  cloud"  of 
crowned  names  (besides  those  elsewhere 
indicated  by  our  italics)  note  Clement  of 
Alexandria,  TerlulUan,  Porphyry,  Ckrysos- 
tom,  Budda,  Pythagoras,  Plato,  Seneca, 
Plutarch,  Milton,  Thompson,  Pope,  Isaac 
Newton,  Rousseau,  Voltaire,  Swedenborg, 
Shelley,  Byron,  Dick,  Lamartine,  Michelet, 
Struve,  Franklin,  Mussey,  Trail.  Eminent 
brain-workers  now  living  in  every  land 
might  multiply  this  list. 

An  important  aid  to  moral  and  spiritual 
progress  is  here  found,  "When  we  raise 
the  physical  life  of  men,  give  them  purer 
air,  better  water,  more  wholesome  food,  we 
contribute  to  their  chances  of  moral  im- 
provement and  *  *  we  contribute  to 
the  possibility  of  their  christian  perfection . ' ' 
(Fairbairn).  "The  Ethics  of  Diet,"  (A^. 
Williams)  ably  discusses  this  theme.  War, 
cruelty,  vice  and  crime  are  checked  by 
cooler,  purer,  blood.  Our  transportation 
of  animals  by  land  and  sea  is  the  envy  of 
devils.  Wholesale  and  domestic  butchery 
are  sickening  and  degrading  to  a  kind 
heart. 

The  inevitable  and  manifest  drift  of  civi- 
lization is  in  this  direction.  Increasing 
density  of  population,  humanitarian  reforms 
and  progressive  Christianity  are  with  us. 
Our  literature  is  now  very  great.  It  has 
many  periodica!  publications  in  America, 
in  Germany,  in  England  and  her  colonies. 
The  British  organizations  are  numerous, 
enrolling  thousands  of  members.  A  large 
and  increasing  number  of  Vegetarian  res- 
taurants and  clubs  are   found   in   England 

1899 


and  America.  There  are  many  thousands 
ofusinthe  United  States,  including  large 
portions  of  the  S.  D.  Adventists,  Shakers, 
some  Roman  Catholic  orders  and  other 
religions  bodies.  Many  Sanitariums  are 
advancing  the  cause.  We  have  a  national 
organization  with  various  local  ones,  and 
in  1893  held  a  World's  Congress  at  Chicago, 
Rev.  H.  S  f/uWand  Dr./.  H.  Kellogg  are 
among  our  active  American  leaders.  Prof. 
Mayor,  of  Cambridge  University,  stands 
foremost  in  England.  As  Beketoff,  Chan- 
cellor of  St.  Petersburg's  University,  said, 
and  as  Tolstoi  teaches :  "the  future  is  with 
the  Vegetarians."  "They  shall  not  hurt 
nor  destroy  in  all  my  holy  mountain :  for 
the  earth  shall  be  full  of  the  knowledge  of 
the  I^rd." 

— Boxford,  Mass.,  1899. 


MR.  SPENCER'S  PENMANSHIP. 

The   following  is   a  facsimile  of  a  letter 

received  by  us  from  Mr.  H,  Alden  Spencer: 


BusmEss  iBDCiTnn  Oitick 


Food,  Home  and  Garden. 


V.oin'..>^H  Soc 

KTV  OF  ASMIC4,    P«bli.hn,. 

All     communk«Iion> 
81..     SUlion   P,  {N 

(  (0  CJiestoM  St.)    Phil.delphl«. 

RBV.    HB 

>1RV  S,  CUOBB,  Bdilor. 

Ooe  SubKriplion.  50 

line,   ooe    laiertloa,     lo    ceau, 
1.    For  ii/lnci  I  iDiertJan  Si. 00. 
s.    Pcrptie.lasiae.Sis.oalsUe, 

The  excellent  article  oa  Vegetarianism 
by  Rev.  Wm.  Penn  Alcott,  is  quoted  from 
the  new  edition  of  his  "Summary  of  Argu- 
ments," enlarged  and  improved  with  a 
portrait  of  the  author,  and  in  long  primer 
type.  The  price,  however,  is  still  kept  at 
five  cents  in  order  to  secure  its  extensive 
distribution. 


We  have  here  a  first-class  Vegetarian 
restaurant  and  Mr.  Huber,  the  proprietor, 
has  a  fine  patronage. — Stanley  G.  Wright, 
Detroit,  Mich. 


Mrs.  Josephine  Parkman,  well-known  in 
the  literary  and  Vegetarian  circles  of  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  is  with  us  on  a  visit  to 
Frankford  and  Philadelphia,  where  she  has 
numerous  friends. 


Rev.  H.  S.  Genevra  Lake  is  meeting  with 
good  success  in  interesting  the  people  of 
Olympia,  Wash.,  in  the  higher  aspects  of 
human  living.  Attention  is  called  to  the 
various  reforms  which  underlie  the  com- 
ing social  order. 

Tie  Friend  is  publishing  letters  from 
Wm.  Evans,  who  has  tieen  visiting  the 
Dukhobors.  The  accounts  confirm  all  that 
has  been  said  of  the  hardy  and  stalwart 
character  of  these  people,  "notwithstanding 
the  fact  that  they  do  not  eat  meat. ' ' 


A  recent  trip  to  Washington  resulted  in 
the  discovery  of  Mrs.  Siltiman,  formerly 
Miss  Annie  English,  again  in  the  Agricul- 
tural Department,  having  taken  the  place 
temporarily  to  give  the  present  incumbent 
a  little  vacation.  Mtss  Belle  Saunders  is 
still  in  the  office  with  her  father,  who  is 
superintendent  of  the  division  of  useful 
plants  in  the  same  department.  These 
firi^nds  are  firm  Vegetarians  and  fill  their 
places  with  great  regularity  and  efficiency, 
13O 


The  next  issue  of  Our  Postscript  will 
take  up  the  question  of  "Economy  in 
Food"  and  will  appear  about  the  loth  of 
October,  The  little  quarterly  is  gaining  in 
favor.  This  will  make  the  sixth  number 
and  the  whole  six  will  be  sent  by  mail  on 
the  receipt  of  five  cents. 

On  Reading  Humphrey's  Homeopathic 
Mentor  or  Family  Adviser  we  were  surprised 
to  see  that  this  high  Homeopathic  authority 
is  tainted  with  the  flesh-eating  delusion  and 
gives  great  attention  to  the  value  of  various 
animal  bodies  for  food.  It  is  wonderful 
how  the  practice  of  flesh-eating  blinds  men 
to  a  perception  of  the  truth  on  this  subject. 


Miss  May  Yates,  London,  writes  in  refer- 
ence to  the  visit  of  Dr.  Kellogg  to  England 
"that  if  England  and  America  would  only 
unite  in  promoting  Vegetarianism,  the 
Anglo-American  Alliance  would  soon  es- 
tablish peace  throughout  the  world."  It  i: 
true  that  peace  with  the  animals  would  lead 
to  peace  with  the  humans.  It  is  one  of 
those  things  in  which  the  greater  is  included 
in  the  lesser. 


The  autobiography  of  Harve'  Alden 
Spencer  is  so  admirably  written  that  we 
could  not  improve  it  by  putting  it  in  the 
third  person,  although  in  doing  so  we  could 
have  made  the  point  of  personality  much 
Stronger  than  Mr.  Spencer's  modesty  would 
permit.  The  medallion,  though  excellent, 
gives  but  little  idea  of  the  stalwart  pro- 
portions of  the  man,  who,  weighing  over 
October, 


300  pounds,  is  tall  and  in  excellent  pro- 
portion, which  require  a  full  length  picture 
to  represent.  His  strength  is,  we  believe, 
double  that  of  an  ordinary  athlete  and  were 
he  a  fighting  man,  we  would  not  envy  the 
pugilist  that  would  have  the  temerity  to 
challenge  him. 


As  many  Vegetarians  use  Homeopathic 
remedies,  and  as  we  believe  Homeopathy  a 
decided  advance  upon  Allopathy,  we  direct 
attention  to  Dr.  Humphrey's  advertisemeut. 


A  lady  in  California  suggests  a  Vegeta- 
rian Excursion  to  Prance,  England  and 
Scotland  next  year  and  kindly  invites  the 
President  of  the  V.  S.  A.  to  cbaperone  the 
party.     Who  wants  to  go? 


The  Vegetarian  (London)  of  September 
i6,  gives  an  account  of  the  National  Vegeta- 
rian Congress  in  London  on  September  12. 
It  gives  the  address  of  President  Hills  con- 
taining an  interesting  resume' of  the  Vegeta- 
rian movement.  Next  year  the  convention 
will  be  held  in  Paris. 


John  Keidel  and  his  eldest  son  Henry, 
aged  14,  are  coming  irom  Germany  in  Oc- 
tober, and  propose  to  travel  from  New  York 
to  San  Diego,  Cal.,  delivering  Vegetarian 
lectures  and  giving  entertainments  at  the 
various  cities  between.  Dr.  Keidel  is  an 
amusing  and  forcible  speaker  and  those 
who  desire  to  hear  him  should  write  to  the 
editor  of  Food,  Hohb  and  Garden,  so  as 
to  arrange  meetings.  He  will  take  the 
route  oil  which  most  engagements  are 
secured. 


THE  EXPORT  EXPOSITION. 
The  great  Export  Exposition,  Phila., 
was  opened  September  14,  and  is  now  in 
good  running  order.  We  were  present  at 
the  opening  and  could  see  in  that  event  a 
great  future  for  American  manu&cturers. 
1899 


The  Peanut  Butter  bandmill  described  in 
our  pamphlet  on  the  Vegetarian  Society 
Mill  was  on  exhibition  and  attracted  much 
attention.  Samples  of  butter  were  distrib- 
uted by  Mr.  Gartside,  who  had  the  Straub 
exhibition  ready  on  opening  day.  Many 
exhibitions  of  food  were  in  preparation,  as 
well  as  innumerable  other  exhibits  which 
must  be  seen  to  be  appreciated.  The  U.  S. 
Marine  Band  is  also  a  great  attraction.  The 
Exposition  remains  open  till  November  30, 
and  we  hope  our  friends  from  all  parts  of 
the  country  will  avail  themselves  of  the 
opportunity  to  visit  Philadelphia  at  ex- 
cursion rates. 


BERKELEY  SPRINGS,  W.  V. 
We  had  a  very  pleasant  visit  to  Berkeley 
Springs.  September  19  to  aa,  where  we  had 
the  pleasure  of  meeting  our  Vegetarian 
friend,  Mrs.  F.  Q.  Ogden,  of  Natchez, 
Miss.,  whose  plantation  adjoining  that  for- 
merly belonging  to  Jefferson  Davis,  on  the 
river  17  miles  below  Vicksburg,  containing 
400  acres,  she  hopes  soon  to  convert  into  a 
nut  producing  orchard.  The  Pecan  nuts  of 
the  largest  variety  on  sale  by  Mr.  Herbert 
Post,  of  Fort  Worth,  Texas,  are  to  be 
planted,  and  probably  peanut  culture  will 
also  be  commenced  there.  One  of  the 
greatest  curiosities  at  the  Springs  is  the 
sand  hill,  which  furnishes  the  pure  silica 
for  glass  factories  in  Pittsburg.  The  water 
at  the  Springs  is  always  warm,  winter  and 
summer,  and  is  considered  an  excellent 
remedy  for  kidney  and  liver  disorders.  It 
is  not  unpleasant  to  drink.  It  seems  to 
have  an  immediate  effect  on  the  kidneys. 
We  certainly  enjoyed  excellent  health  there 
and  therefore  could  only  judge  of  its  ' 
curative  effects  by  its  health  preserving 
qualities.  There  is  a  good  opening  for  a 
Sanitarium  and  Hotel  at  Berkeley.  We 
enjoyed  the  stay  at  the  Fairfax  Inn. 


.  Goeiglc 


tFOODHOMEv'^GARDENj 


AN  ENTHUSIASTIC  VKGETARIAN. 
Being  impressed  with  the  enviable 
healthy  appearance  of  his  family,  we  re- 
quested A.  H.  Potts,  Publisher  of  Parkers- 
burg,  Pa.,  to  allow  us  to  reproduce  some 
pictures  of  them  in  Food,  Home  and 
Gardgn.  Speaking  of  Vegetarianism,  he 
says: 

"When  a  boy  I  was  fed  th;  usual  msiiu 
of  pork,  fried  meats  and  greasy  gravies,  it 
being  especially  insisted  on  that  I  should 
eat  more  fat  than  lean.  I  probably  passed 
through  all  the  diseases  of  childhood  and 
boyhood,  and  at  manhood  Was  sulfering 
with  headache,  dyspepsia  and  their  com- 
panions. A  health  magazine  published  at 
Battle  Creek,  Mich.,  came  into  my  bauds 
about  that  time  and  I  began  to  look  into  the 
subject  for  myself,  gradually  adopting  such 
reforms  as  seemed  to  impress  me,  and  it  was 
not  long  until  I  became  a  pretty  thorough 
Vegetarian  in  practice,  with  the  accompany- 
ing benefits.  Fortunately  my  wife  was 
sensible  enough  to  'taste  and  see, '  and  this 
before  the  children  came,  so  that  they  re- 
ceived the  benefit  and  are  to-day  living 
examples  of  what  diet  can  do  for  health. 
Reiner,  now  past  nine  years,  and  Clive, 
past  seven  years,  each  started  to  school  on 
their  sixth  birthdays  and  have  never  yet 
missed  an  hour,  which  is  in  evidence  of 
health.  They  learn  readily,  an  evidence  of 
a  clear,  active  brain,  not  dulled  by  improper 
diet.  The  three  younger  ones,  including 
the  twins,  now  two  years  old,  bear  evidence 
of  the  same  advantage. 

"I,  however,  do  not  believe  in  stopping  at 
one  point  of  health  reform,  but  several 
years  ago  adopted  Dr.  Dewey's  no  break- 
fast discovery,  and  the  benefit  has,  if  pos- 
sible, been  doubled,  uiy  experience  con- 
vincing me  that  he  has  made  one  of  the 
grandest  means  of  more  perfect  health  and 
intellect  for  those  who  have  the '  'backbone ' ' 


to  begin  its  practice.  Experience  proves 
with  OS  that  it  is  alike  practical  for  children 
and  ofi'ntold  benefit  to  body  and  brain. 
For  some  years  we  have  also  been  practicing 
to  our  further  advantage  some  new  truths 
discovered  and  taught  by  Dr.  Keith,  of 
Bellville,  O.  For  many  years  obt  head- 
aches and  stomach  troubles  have  been 
practically  things  of  the  past." 


MAMMALS  NOT  ALL  CARNIVOROUS 
An  anonymous  writer  signing  as  "C"  in 
the  Chicago  Inter-Ocean  makes  a  review  of 
the  "Golden  Age  Cook  Book"  an  occasion 
for  an  attack  on  Vegetarianism  and  Vegeta- 
rians. The  chief  argument  is  based  on  the 
assumption  that  because  man,  in  common 
with  other  mammals,  has  to  subsist  on 
milk  in  infancy,  therefore  he  cannot  be 
naturally  a  vegetable  eating  animal.  The 
absurdity  of  this  position  is  seen  in  the  fact 
that  all  clean  mammals  are  vegetable  eaters 
and  do  not  subsist  on  animal  food  after 
being  weaned.  Indeed,  if  the  theory  ad- 
vocated by  "C"  be  correct,  to  be  consistanl, 
having  partaken  of  mother's  milk  in 
infancy,  we  have  a  right  to  eat  mother's 
flesh  at  maturity.  Is  there  any  consbtency 
in  this  argument  which  upholds  cannibalism 
in  its  most  diabolical  forms? 

As  is  the  practice  with  Sesh-eaters  after 
having  enjoyed  the  milk  of  a  family  cow  a 
number  of  years,  when  that  kind  motherly 
creature  becomes  old  so  as  to  be  no  longer 
profitable  for  milk,  she  is  driven  to  slaughter 
and  devoured  often  by  the  very  same  per- 
sons to  whom  she  has  been  a  foster-mother 
or  wet-nurse  !  This  is  the  kind  of  civiliza- 
tion advocated  by  this  writer  and  it  is  not 
surprising  he  hides  himself  behind  a  single 
initial. 


-Be  like  the  bird  Ibit  halting  In  her  flight. 

Awhile  on  bousha  ttw  Hlight 

Peels  them  give  way  beneath  her.  and  yet  sin, 


'"t^iigle 


Compiled  from  Guide  for  Nut  Cookery. 

DINNER  MKNU. 

Carrot  Soup. 

Potato  Balls.  Nut  Gravy. 

Steamed  Graham  Bread. 

Surprise  Dessert.        Cocoanut  Cream. 
Peanut  Coffee. 
RECIPES. 
From  Guide  for  Nut  Cookery. 

Nut  Gravy. — Heat  i  pt.  of  water  to  boil- 
ing. Take  a  little  of  the  boiling  water  and 
I  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  and  nib 
smooth:  then  add  it  to  the  water.  To  this 
add  2  level  tablespoon  fuls  of  flonr  which 
has  been  lightly  browned,  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water.  Salt  to  taste  and  let 
boil  a  few  minutes. 

Peanut  Coffee. — Look  over  the  peanuts, 
rejecting  all  the  poor  ones  and  foreign  sub- 
stances, and  roast  in  the  oven  until  they  are 
a  dark  brown,  the  color  of  Java  Coffee  when 
roasted.  Remove  the  skins,  as  they  will 
make  it  bitter;  grind,  but  not  too  fine. 
Use  the  same  as  any  coffee. 

Surprise  Dessert. — ^Take  slices  of  white 
bread  and  cut  out  some  stars  of  ^edium 
size.  Spread  them  with  ground  dates 
which  have  been  stirred  to  a  paste  with 
water.  When  spread,  put  two  of  the  stars 
together.  If  desired,  the  bread  may  be 
spread  with  nut  butter  before  putting  on 
the  dates.  Put  on  the  top  of  each  a  little 
pyramid  of  jelly,  cut  by  turning  a  teaspoon 
in  the  jelly.  Serve  with  cocoanut  cream. 
From  Eliza  R.  Skier,  Landrum,  S.  C. 

Tomato  Bisctiits. — ^Take  good  ripe  toma- 
1899 


toes;  stew,  strain  and  then  squeeze  them 
through  a  cheese  cloth.  Then  boil  down 
until  quite  thick.  Use  instead  of  sour 
milk  and  make  the  biscuits  exactly  as  with 
sour  milk,  only  with  tomato  juice ;  use  less 
soda  than  when  milk  is  used.  Half  a  tea- 
spoonful  to  a  quart  of  flonr . 

Tomato  Granola. — Rebake  until  quite 
dry  and  then  pound  into  small  pieces  the 
tomato  biscuits  as  above  made,  and  grind 
in  the  Vegetarian  Society  Mill.  It  will 
keep  good  in  tin  cans  all  winter.  We  say 
tin  cans  to  keep  it  free  from  attacks  of 
mice,  etc. 

Peanut  Sticks.—Shell  and  blanch  the 
nuts :  soak  them  over  night ;  then  boil 
until  they  can  be  put  through  a  sieve  or  tin 
fruit  presser  or  are  like  mush.  Then  knead 
in  flour  until  like  beaten  biscuit  dough ; 
roll  into  long  sticks  and  bake. 

REMARKS. 

I  have  never  heard  of  anyone  making 
Tomato  Biscuits  but  myself.  I  am  very 
fond  of  tomatoes,  but  can  only  eat  them  in 
summer-time,  so  I  invented  these  biscuits 
and  the  Granola  made  from  them  and  I  can 
now  enjoy  the  tomato  all  the  year  round 
without  much  expense  The  Tomato  Gra- 
nola is  nice  for  soups  or  soaked  in  a  very 
little  water  and  then  steamed  and  eaten  as 
a  vegetable.  I  use  fruit  juices  in  the  same 
way  for  biscuits  and  granola. 

The  white  of  one  egg,  well  beaten,  for 
each  pint  of  flour,  is  an  important  addition 
to  any  kind  of  biscuit. 

139 
Dbi-zsdbyGoOgle 


NUTCOA. 

We  think  the  Nutcoa  is  No.  i  for  frying 
doughnuts.  They  reuln  their  freshness 
several  days  after  cooking.  Many  of  my 
friends  say  they  are  the  sweetest  doughnuts 
they  ever  ate. — Mrs,  Annie  B.  Ballou, 
Attleboro  Falls,  Mass. 

DATES. 
BV  T.  R.  ALLlfJSOM,  L.  R.  C.  S. 

The  date  palm  is  known  to  the  botanist  as 
the  Phoenix  Daclylifera.  It  grows  in  tropi- 
cal and  sub-tropical  parts  of  Asia  and 
Africa.  The  tree  grows  from  loo  to  120 
feet  high,  the  fruit  is  found  in  bunches 
of  about  20  to  25  pounds  each.  When  dates 
are  allowed  to  ripen  on  the  tree,  they  must 
be  eaten  shortly  after  gathered,  or  they  will 
soon  tot.  The  dates  we  know  are  gathered 
a  little  before  they  are  ripe,  and  dried  in  the 
sun.  For  home  use,  the  Arabs  pound  and 
press  the  dates  into  big  cakes.  These  cakes 
are  called  the  "bread  of  the  desert." 

Dates  have  been  used  as  food  from  time 
out  of  mind.  They  are  still  the  staple  food 
of  the  desert  Arabs.  The  date  grows  in 
hot,  barren  and  dry  desert  places  which 
practically  produce  no  other  fruit  or  vege- 
table. This  tree  is  made  much  use  of  by  the 
Arabs ;  the  unopened  bunch  of  leaves  at 
the  top  of  the  tree  is  sometimes  cut  off, 
boiled  and  eaten  as  we  est  cabbage.  Then 
from  the  cut  made  a  juice  Hows  out,  which, 
if  gathered  and  allowed  to  ferment,  produces 
an  intoxicating  drink,  and  if  this  is  left,  it 
further  ferments  and  makes  excellent  vine- 
gar. The  tree  dies  when  its  crown  of  leaves 
is  cut  off,  and  the  trunk  is  used  for  many 
purposes.  Cordage  is  made  Irom  the 
leaves.  From  the  pith  inside  the  trunk,  an 
inferior  sago  can  be  made.  The  sago  of 
commerce  comes  from  the  sago  palm,- and 
not  ft'om  the  date  palm. 

Uses.  Datps  are  very  noarishing,  almost 
as  much  so  as  oatmeal,  and  they  need   no 

140 


cookmg.     In   their  dried   condition,    they 

are  the  chief  food  of  many  people.  Here  is 
an  analysis  of  them  : 

Water,        -        -        -        -  20 

Flesh  formers,         .        -        .  y 

Heat  and  force  formers,       -  71 

Mineral  matters,     ...  2 


The  heat  and  force .  forming  matter  is  in 
the  form  of  sugar.  Dates  practically  con- 
tain no  starch  or  fat.  Being  sweet,  palm 
wine  and  arrak  spirit  may  be  made  from 
them  after  they  are  crushed,  mixed  with 
water  and  fermented.  The  date  is  a  good 
food,  but  its  use  is  forbidden  to  some.  Its 
daily  use  tends  to  prevent  constipation. 
Being  so  rich  in  sugar,  it  must  not  be  used 
by  persons  suffering  from  diabetes,  by  those 
liable  to  skin  disease,  to  sufferers  from 
toothache,  and  those  who  complain  of  want 
of  energy.  Dates  may  be  eaten  with  bread, 
fresh  fruit,  cheese  or  nuts. 

When  dates  are  stoned,  passed  through  a 
sausage  machine  and  mixed  with  ground 
cocoanut,  or  other  nut  meal,  they  form  a 
fruit  and  nut  bread  which  is  very  noarishing 
and  can  be  made  use  of  by  cyclists,  ex' 
plorers,  travellers,  etc.  This  is  also  a  more 
wholesome  aud  nourishing  sweetmeat  than 
the  usual  toffee  bought  by  children .  Stewed 
dates  may  form  a  second  dish  at  dinner. 
Or,  stoned  and  cut  up,  they  may  be  put  in 
puddings  or  moulds  instead  of  currants  and 
raisins..  A  baked  date  pudding  can  be 
made  from  stoned  and  quartered  dates, 
bread  crumbs,  cinnamon  and  a  batter :  it 
will  be  found  a  tasty  and  nourishing  dish. 
A  steamed  date  pudding  is  every  bit  as 
good  as  a  plum  pudding.  When  dates  are 
eaten  raw  they  should  be  washed,  if  possi- 
ble, or  thread  worms  may  result.  The  eggs 
ot  these  little  pests  may  be  left  on  the  skin 
of  the  date  by  the  Arab  packer,  and  if  not 
washed  off,  may  infect  those  who  eat  them. 


October, 

DigiTizsdbyGoOgle 


f 


rden 


The  present  consumption  of  peanuts  in 
America  for  eating  purposes  alone  reaches 
4,000,000  bushels 

Pecan  nut  oil  is  of  a  very  fine  quality  and 
is  used  by  clockmakers  and  gunsmiths  and 
also  f(H- table  purposes. 

The  Commonwealth,  Georgia,  have  raised 
1000  bushels  of  peanuts  and  have  sent  for  a 
Vegetarian  Society  Power  Mill  to  shell, 
blanch  and  grind  the  nuts  into  peanut 
butter. 

JAMAICA  FOR  COLONIZING. 

Mr.  George  Pentyke,  Low  River  Colony, 
Jamaica,  Christiana  P.  0.,  desires  people 
not  to  suppose  from  Mr.  Gerlach's  writing 
in  the  June  number,  that  the  beautiful 
scenery  of  Port  Antonio  extends  over  the 
whole  island.  There  is  a  great  proportion 
of  colored  people  who  are  away  back  in 
evolution.  What  he  says  are  wanted  for 
the  colony  are  high-minded,  practicable  tol- 
erant people,  who  are  fit  and  ready  to  work 
for  better  conditions  for  themselves  and 
others  and  for  the  uplifting  of  humanity. 
PLANTAINS  DRIED  AS  FIGS. 

The  bunches  of  plantains  (a  variety  of 
banana)  are  gathered  in  quantity  as  they 
approach  maturity  and  are  suspended  iu  a 
shed  in  order  to  allow  the  fruit  to  finish  its 
ripening,  say  for  four  or  five  days,  then 
the  fruit  is  peeled  and  placed  on  mats  and 
exposed  to  the  sun.  For  the  first  two  days 
the  fruit  is  turned  over  every  two  hours,  but 
after  this  they  are  turned  only  once  a  day. 
At  the  end  of  six  or  seven  days  they  are 
sufficiently  dry  to  be  put  into  boxes  or 
baskets  like  figs,  or  assorted  according  to 
their  length,  and  are  then  put  into  bundles, 
1899 


as  is  done  with  vanilla  beans.  These  plan- 
tains, packed  in  boxes  and  wrapped  in  tin 
foil,  may  be  preserved  indefinitely.  The 
flavor  of  the  dry  plantain  is  somewhat 
strange  at  first,  but  the  palate  soon  adapts 
itself  to  the  taste. — Scientific  American. 
RAISIN  MAKING. 

The  Land  0/ Sunshine  describes  raisin- 
making  in  California.  That  gangs  of 
pickers  clip  off  the  translucent  clusters, 
arrange  them  on  trays  and  place  them  in 
the  sunshine  where  the  grapes  are  gradually 
transformed  into  raisins.  In  two  weeks  the 
grapes  are  turned  over  by  placing  an  empty 
tray  over  a  full  one,  reveraing  them  and 
then  taking  the  emptied  tray  to  the  next. 
The  amber  gradually  changes  to  amethyst 
and  the  sun-warmed  balls  become  like  drops 
of  honey  for  sweetness.  In  a  week  more 
the  fruit  is  ready  for  the  sweating  in  boxes 
containing  from  too  to  150  pounds.  Grad- 
ing and  packing  according  to  grade  follows. 

AMER.  POMOLOGICAL  SOCIETY. 

The  American  Pomological  Society  held 
its  biennial  sessions  at  Horticultural  Hall, 
Philadelphia,  early  in  September.  Mr. 
George  W.  Smith,  of  Hartford,  a  member 
of  the  Society,  paid  us  a  pleasant  visit,  and 
we  attended  a  session  when  the  subject  of 
culture  was  discussed.  It  was  demonstrated 
that  continued  culture  during  the  growing 
mouths,  and  the  sowing  of  green  crops  for 
fall  and  winter  mulching  was  the  way  to 
secure  even  peaches  from  the  killing  frosts 
of  winter  aud  early  spring.  That  Mr.  Mow- 
ery's  peach  orchard,  six  miles  from  Benton 
Harbor,  Mich.,  had  even  this  year  an 
abundant  crop  of  excellent  peaches,  which 
sold  for  $7  a  bushel. 


dbyGcfcgle 


THE  SCHOOL  AT  COMMONWEALTH, 
GEORGIA. 

lu  our  January  number  we  gave  an  ac- 
count of  the  Commonwealth  Community, 
where  85  persons  were  being  well  nour- 
ished on  food  that  cost  only  $2.50  a  day. 
Of  course  no  meat  was  served  at  these 
prices,  and  the  following  gives  the  result  of 
this  living  on  the  children  of  the  Common- 
wealth : 

"The  school  at  Commonwealth  is  natur- 
ally the  centre  of  much  interest  and  hope. 
The  future  of  the  community  depends  iu  a 
large  measure,  upon  the  children  who  are 
there  being  trained. 

"It  is  the  aim  of  the  teachers  and  parents 
that  the  children's  school  life  should  not  be 
a  thing  apart  from  their  ont-of-school  life, 
but  rather,  a  natural,  happy  development 
of  them  in  the  life  of  the  community. 

"They  are  a  singularly  rosy,  healthful 
group  of  children,  their  ages  ranging  from 
three  to  eighteen  years.  It  will  be  seen 
that  the  one  course  of  study  must  extend 
from  kindergarten  to  literature  and  lan- 
guages and  higher  mathematics. 

"The  kindergarten  department  is  under 
the  most  efBcient  care  of  Miss  Martha 
Bethune  Jones.  Here,  as  in  the  higher 
school,  the  study  of  nature  is  given  a  prom- 
inent place.  The  children's  eyes  are  opened 
to  the  beauties  and  wonders  which  surround 
them  in  the  free  out-door  life  they  live  at 
Commonwealth,  and  their  enjoyment  grows 
with  their  observation. 

"With  the  older  children  this  Nature 
Study  has  led  on  to  quite  a  surprising 
amount  of  work  in  botany,  even  children  of 
142 


eight  years  use  botanical  terms  with'  ease 
and  accuracy  in  describing  plants  and 
flowers.  The  information  gained  in  their 
Nature  Work  famishes  material  for  espec- 
ially fine  language  lessons,  for  children  en- 
joy telling  what  they  are  interested  in  and 
express  their  tbought  naturally  and  easily. 

"It  is  a  noticeable  fact  that  the  children 
take  more  naturally  to  the  idea  and  life  of 
common  property  than  others  do,  and  the 
school  children  are  enthusiasts  for  that 
principle.  It  is  tntr  school  and  o«r  school 
property  to  be  cared  for  and  preserved  and 
made  worthy  of  Commonwealth,  and  the 
esprit  de  corps  thus  created  works  wondeis 
for  the  order  and  self-government  of  the 
school.  There  are  no  rules  to  break  or 
dodge.  The  boys  and  girls  are  in  school  to 
aid  them  to  become  the  noblest  and  best 
they  are  capable  of  becoming,  and  any 
action  which  hinders  others  or  hinders 
themselves  in  this  development  is  adjudged 
unworthy.  The  ideal  is  high,  but  children 
love  high  ideals,  and  the  teachers  at  Com- 
monwealth can  testify  to  good  results  from 
this  principle  in  school  government," 

The  foregoing  has  been  kindly  prepared 
at  my  request  by  Sue  Fay  Hinkley,  our 
teacher,  eminently  qualified  in  all  respects 
except,  perhaps,  physical  strength,  for  the 
office.  There  is  one  other  thing  should  be 
emphasized  in  reference  to  them :  their 
peaceful  dispositions  which  attracts  the  at- 
tention of  visitors  and  others  and  calls  forth 
the  remark,  "your  children  never  quarrel." 
They  are  natural  and  their  affection  easily 
secured. 

Jacob  M.  Troth. 


SCHOLARS  AT  THB  SCHOOL  AT  COMMONWEALTH.  GA. 


.  H.  POTTS  AND  FAMILY.     (See  page  138.) 

L:„,2odb,GoogIe 


-HOME  OF  THE  POTTS  FAMIiY. 


EDITORIAL  SANCTUM:  CHESTER  CO.  TIMES. 


Digii,2sdb,  Google 


db,  Google 


JAMES  PIERREPONT  GREAVES. 


d  by  Google 


"p®®B>  ji®^B  ^K©  G-^IIBBH- 


Vol.  hi,  Nbw  Series,  No.  34.  NOVEMBER,  1 


Whole  Number  107. 


JAMES  PIERREPONT  GREAVES. 


ONE  of  the  pioneers  of  Vegetarianism 
in  England,  Mr.  Greaves  was  cer- 
tainly a  most  remarkable  character 
in  the  early  history  of  the  Vegetarian  move- 
ment, and  as  we  have  not  seen  him  even 
mentioned  by  the  modern  historians  of  the 
movement  in  England,  we  seek  to  do  for 
his  memory  here  what  our  English  con- 
temporaries have  omitted  to  do  in  his  own 
country. 

The  portrait  we  represent  ot  Mr.  Greaves, 
is  obtained  from  a  copperplate  engraving 
which  forms  the  frontispiece  of  a  work  pub- 
lished in  1843  at  the  Concordium,  Ham 
Common,  Surrey,  England,  where  it  was 
our  privilege  to  spend  a  portion  of  our 
youth,  the  recollection  of  which  period 
becomes  brighter  as  age  confirms  the  prin- 
ciples taught  in  that  institution. 

Mr.  Greaves'  portrait  is  an  evidence  of 
great  benevolence,  veneration  and  depth  of 
spirittial  attainment.  He  was  bom  Feb- 
ruary I,  1777.  In  1817  he  was  attracted  to 
the  great  educational  work  in  which  the 
celebrated  Festalozzi  was  then  eugaged, 
and  which  has  produced  the  extensive 
adoption  of  the  Kindergarten  system  of 
training,  of  which  Pestalozzi  was  the  found- 
er. Mr.  Greaves  left  England  to  co-operate 
in  that  work  at  Yverdum,  Switzerland.  He 
resided  on  the  continent  eight  years,  dur- 
ing which  time  he  was  actively  engaged  in 


benovelent    enterprises    promotive   of   the 
thorough  education  of  the  young. 

In  1818  Pestalozzi  addressed  a  most 
earnest  letter  to  Mr.  Greaves,  in  which  he 
gave  the  convictions  of  his  great  experience 
in  reference  to  the  importance  of  infantile 
education:  "The  sympathies  and  sensibili- 
ties must,  in  infancy,  be  fully  harmonized 
with  that  divine  nature,  which,  though 
deeply  buried,  is  still  latent  within  us.  To 
effect  this,  we  require  the  mother's  aid — of 
her  to  whom,  humanly  speaking,  this 
sacred  and  holy  cause  has  been  specially 
entrusted,  and  for  which  woman  is  pecul- 
iarly adapted.  Mothers  must  co-operate 
with  OS :  therefore  to  them  let  us  appeal — 
with  them  plead  the  heaven  implanted  sense 
of  joy  felt  in  their  maternal  duties — and 
supplicate  with  them  that  they  preserve 
unwonnded  the  Love  glowing  in  their 
child's  affections,  and  unfold  them  in  har- 
mony with  its  highest  dictates.  Tell  them 
this  is  the  prayer,  the  aspiration  of  an  aged 
man,  anxious  to  see  realized  the  good  his 
heart  has  been  allowed  to  conceive;  and 
your  heart,  my  friend,  I  know,  beats  in 
unison  with  mine.  I  feel  it  does.  I  shake 
hands  with  you  as  with  one  who  fervently 
embraces  this  cause.  Tell  them  it  is  not 
mine  nor  your  cause,  but  the  cause  of  Love, 
the  ever-living  God,  who  has  deposited  in 
the  soul  of  the  children  of  men  a  spark  of 
his  eternal  fire — a  germ  of  the  everlasting 
Word,  by  which  the  whole  universe  is 
sustained,  and  on  which  all  spiritual  being, 
as  well  as  all  physical  existence,  immediate- 
ly depends. 


dbyGol^le 


"Happy  should  I  be  if  1  might  one  day 
plead  by  your  voice  with  the  mothers  of 
Britain !  My  heart  expands  with  the 
thought,  and  glows  with  the  prospect  which 
fills  my  imagination — it  throbs  with  the 
hope  of  beholding  a  great  and  mighty 
people  intent  upon  the  Spirit  elevation  of 
their  children ;  and  their  prosperity  based 
upon  the  moral  and  mental  excellence  of 
their  generations ! 

"And  surely  the  mother's  heart  must 
rejoice  with  the  consciousness  that  she  has 
her  appointed  part  in  this  glorious  cause — 
surely  she  will  gratefully  acknowledge  that 
Love  itself  has  prepared  her  work,  and  that 
she  has  but  to  conditionate  for  unity,  peace 
and  joy ! 

"Will  she  not  rejoice  that  in  her  child 
there  is  that  which — 

■Nor  aenm.oor  slorts  oreold, 
Nor  purple  «■!*,  nor  cullure,  cm  Imtow. 
Bui  God  aloIK,  when  Aral  hia  active  hand 
ImprlnUlheaecfetbiasin  Ihesoul!'  '■ 

When  Mr.  Greaves  returned  to  England, 
in  1825,  he  became  actively  engaged  iu 
promoting  the  welfare  of  the  London  Infant 
School  Society,  in  which  he  manifested  a 
degree  of  warm-hearted  kindness  which 
endeared  him  to  his  associates.  Mr. 
Alexander  Campbell,  with  whom  we  were 
associated  in  1S43-4  at  the  Concordium, 
thus  writes  of  Mr.  Greaves : 

"An  advocateof  the  strictest  temperance, 
of  the  purest  diet,  and  of  the  necessity  of 
both  being  practiced  I'rom  the  highest  Love 
principles,  living  himself  on  the  simplest 
fare,  he  failed  not,  both  in  season  and  out- 
of-season,  to  remonstrate  with  all  on  the 
evils  interwoven  in  the  existing  social 
system,  and  to  urge,  in  the  houses  of  the 
rich  and  the  great,  that  custom  familiarizes 
us  with  much  that  will  not,  for  a  moment, 
bear  the  test  of  reflection  or  examination — 
from  which  the  mind  shrinks  with  horror 
when  fairly  laid  before  it,  as  wholly  repug- 
nant to  the  Love  Law  latent  within  it. 

"Mr.  Greaves'  physiognomy  and  stature 
were  characterized  by  dignity,  sweetness 
and  grace  ;  while  the  fathomless  depth  of 
his  singularly  bright  eye,  and  the  noble 
elevation  of  his  lofty  brow,  exteriorly 
evidenced    the    glorious    intelligence   that 

14S 


dwelt  within.  Hereafter,  the  Spirit,  by  its 
revelations  in  phrenological  science,  will 
enable  man  to  appreciate  individuals,  who, 
like  Mr.  Greaves,  preceding  the  age  in 
which  they  live,  show  forth,  in  Being  and 
in  act,  a  degree  of  existence  that  is  now 
neither  understood  or  appreciated — that  is 
treated  as  ideal,  as  visionary — derided  as 
speculative,  and  rejected,  because  not  in 
harmony  with  man's  selfish  feelings  and 
unsocial  institutions." 

During  the  distressing  times  in  Kngland, 
which  culminated  in  the  passage  of  the 
reform  bill,  Mr.  Greaves  engaged  iu  the 
work  of  ameleoratiug  the  condition  of  tlie 
working  classes  by  finding  them  remunera- 
tive employment,  and  in  an  address  to  the 
Unemployed  Laborers  of  Randwick,  he 
wrote: 

"Six  weeks'  hard  labor,  with  only  pota- 
toes for  your  food,  and  not  a  drop  of  fer- 
mented liquor  of  any  kind,  has  somewhat 
changed  your  neighborhood  and  yourselves ; 
and  many  of  you  now  come  into  the  house 
of  God  wearing  the  appearance  of  decent, 
healthy,  happy  laborers." 

Without  money,  his  plan  for  promoting 
the  welfare  of  the  unemployed  was  to  give 
food  and  clothing  in  exchange  for  labor. 
A  basketful  of  potatoes  or  six  qtiarts  of 
soup  was  given  for  a  day's  labor.  No  other 
food  is  mentioned.  A  token  was  given  for 
each  day's  work  and  it  was  exchanged  for 
the  articles  required.  The  work  appears  to 
have  been  chiefly  macadamizing  roads  and 
the  articles  were  furnished  by  the  borotigh. 

The  establishment  and  support  of  the 
Concordium,  a  thoroughly  Vegetarian  edu- 
cational institute  was  one  of  the  contriv- 
ances of  his  fertile  mind  for  the  benefit  of 
humanity.  It  was  in  this  school  of  health 
that  we  acquired  a  practical  acquaintance 
with  those  principles  of  living  on  the  fruits 
of  the  earth  which  have  enabled  us  to  live 
beyond  the  period  allotted  to  man  by  the 
Psalmist,  and  enjoy,  in  our  seventy-third 
year,  a  degree  of  health,  vigor  and  activity 
November, 


seldom  so  largely  enjoyed  at  that  period  of 
life.  Mr.  Greaves,  during  the  last  ten 
years  of  bis  life,  attained  a  high  degree  of 
spiritaality.  In  &ct,  he  appeared  to  enjoy 
life  in  two  worlds  and  finally  escaped  from 
his  earthly  tabernacle,  at  Alcott  House, 
Ham  Common,  Surrey,  England,  the  home 
of  the  Coucordium,  March  ti,  1942. 

This  was  a  few  months  prior  to  our  enter- 
ing the  institution,  and  it  was  there  where 
we  delighted  to  gaze  on  a  painted  portrait 
of  this  remarkable  man  and  to  admire  the 
loving,  gentle  nature  with  which  it  seemed 
to  be  illumined. 

It  appears  that  he  left  a  large  number  of 
MSS.,  written  as  by  inspiration,  only  a 
small  portion  of  which  have  been  published, 
the  two  volnmes  of  Letters  being  nearly  all, 
we  believe,  that  have  yet  appeared  in  print. 

He  advocated  the  highest  conjugal 
relations  as  a  means  of  raising  an  improved 
race  of  humanity  and  insisted  on  the  devel- 
opment of  the  love  nature  within,  in  order 
to  attain  the  best  and  most  complete  enjoy- 
ment of  felicity.  To  his  nature  the  practice 
of  cruelty  and  slaughter  in  all  their  forms 
was  an  impossibility.  He  insisted  that: 
"Xo  one  is  fit  for  a  missionary  who  cannot 
fix  his  hearers  attention  upon  Love,  and 
who  does  not  use  every  means  for  this  pur- 
pose.    Love  must  fill  the  whole  soul." 


ECONOMY  IN  FOOD. 

BY    REV.  H.  S.  CLUBB. 

OUR  last  Postscript  showed  that  beef 
contains  70  per  ceut.  of  water,  10 
per  cent,  nitrogen,  17.7  percent, 
hydro  carbonate  (fats  and  oils)  and  2.3  per 
cent,  salts.  Now  the  best  beefsteak  is  sold 
at  35  cents  a  pound.  But  taking  the  average 
cost  of  beef  without  bone,  at  30  cents  a 
pound,  and  as  it  takes  over  3  pounds  of 
beef  to  furnish  one  pound  of  solid  food,  the 
cost  of  one  pound  of  solid   food  obtained 

1899 


from  beef  is  over  60  cents.  Lentils,  not  the 
cheapest  of  Vegetarian  food  in  the  American 
market,  cost  10  cents  a  pound,  but  as  they 
contain  only  11  percent,  of  water,  12  cents 
is  a  liberal  allowance  for  one  pound  of 
solid  food  obtained  from  lentils.  Take  12 
cents  from  60  cents  and  there  is  a  saving  in 
favor  of  Vegetarian  fare  of  48  cents  on  each 
pound  of  solid  nourishment.  We  instance 
lentils  because  they  furnish  more  than 
double  the  amount  of  the  nitrogenous  ele- 
ment than  beef  and  fiunish  the  carbo- 
hydrates as  well,  of  which  beef  is  entirely 
destitute.  Any  of  the  pulses  would  be 
equally  and  most  of  them  more  economical 
than  lentils.  For  instance  peanuts  contain 
only  7  per  cent  of  water  and  93  per  cent,  of 
solid  nourishment,  and  a  pound  of  peanuts 
can  usually  be  bought  without  shells  from  7 
to  10  cents  retail. 

It  is  true  many  choice  fiiiits  are  expensive 
but  there  is  usually  an  opportunity  during 
the  fruit  season  for  the  economist  to  pur- 
chase home-grown  fruit  and  choice  veget- 
ables, such  as  tomatoes,  peas,  etc.,  at  a  very 
low  figure,  and  by  canning  or  other  in- 
expensive methods,  preserve  them  for  use 
until  fresh  fruit  and  vegetables  are  again  in 
season.  And  even  those  who  cannot  do 
this,  the  low  price  of  canned  goods  enable 
all  to  obtain  an  abundant  supply  at  moderate 
cost  of  all  the  fruits  and  vegetables  required 
for  a  family  in  great  and  even  luxurious 
variety  throughout  the  year. 

The  experiment  of  the  Commonwealth 
community  in  Georgia,  in  which  over  80 
persons  are  l)eing  fed  and  maintained  in 
health  and  vigor  at  a  cost  for  food  of 
three  cents  a  day  each,  is  itself  indisputable 
evidence  of  the  economy  of  Vegetarian  fare. 

CasseW  s  Saturday  Journal,  Londou,  Eug., 
publishes  an  article  by  Prof.  Atwater,  who 
has  devoted  himself  to  the  study  of  food  a 
number  of  years,  in  which   he  writes:  "It 

149   I 


,v  Google 


will  be  a  shock  to  many  thrifty  housewives 
to  leara  that  beef  and  eggs  are  among  the 
greatest  of  all  economical  mistakes.  A 
single  shilling  spent  in  wheat-flour  will 
yield  as  much  nutriment  as  thirty  shillings 
spent  on  sirloin  of  beef.  Sngar  ranks  next 
to  wheat-flour  as  an  economical  food ;  for  a 
shilling's  worth  of  sugar  contains  as  much 
nutriment  as  six  shillings'  worth  of  milk, 
twelve  shillings'  worth  of  eggs,  or  a 
pound's  worth  of  oysters.  In  proportion  to 
their  cost,  oysters  are  almost  the  least 
nutritious  of  all  foods.  Beaua  and  potatoes 
run  a  close  race  for  the  the  third  place 
among  valuable  and  cheap  foods." 

In  the  Logic  of  Vegetarianism,  by  Mr. 
H.S.  Salt,  it  is  shown  "that  the  habit  of 
flesh-eating,  involving,  as  it  does,  the 
sacrifice  of  vast  tracts  of  land  to  the  grazing 
of  cattle  and  the  subsequent  starving  of 
agriculture,  is  far  too  costly  to  be  justified 
in  the  face  of  an  extending  civilization,  un- 
less by  a  much  clearer  proof  of  its  necessity 
than  any  which  its  advocates  have  essayed . ' ' 

It  is  impossible  to  produce  flesh-meat  as 
cheaply  as  it  is  to  produce  vegetable  food, 
because  it  is  from  vegetable  food  that  meat 
is  usually  produced,  and  it  takes  from  five 
to  seven  pounds  of  grain  and  other  vegeta- 
ble food  in  proportion,  to  produce  one 
pound  of  meat.  Then,  if  carefully  in- 
spected, vast  quantities  of  cattle  grown  for 
slaughter  are  condemned  as  diseased  and 
this  immense  loss  is  oidy  lessened  by  dis- 
honestly putting  the  condemned  cattle  into 
the  market  in  the  various  forms  of  preserved 
meat,  which  are  producing  such  terrible 
suffering  among  the  consumers,  spreading 
disease,  insanity  and  premature  death 
throughout  our  land  and  our  distant  army. 


The  above  article  composed  the  sixth 
number  of  Our  Postscript,  which  was 
issued  on  October  loth. 


MEAT  INSPECTION. 
The  New  \ot^  Journal,  sometime  since, 
published  the  sworn  statement  of  a  man 
who  had  been  employed  ten  years  in  the 
packing  house  of  one  of  Chicago's  great 
firms.  The  statement  was  accompanied  by 
the  following  engraving  of  the  vat    into 


which  the  carcasses  condemned  by  the 
inspectors  were  thrown,  ostensibly  to  be 
tried  down  for  soap  grease,  but  as  the 
engraving  shows  the  carcasses  were  removed 
through  a  trap  door  at  the  bottom  of  the  vat 
onto  a  tram-truck,  by  which  they  were 
conveyed  to  the  packers  and  canners,  so 
that  all  the  diseased  and  condemned  meat 
was  actually  put  upon  the  market  and  sold 
to  consumers,  who  innocently  believed  they 
were  protected  by  vigilant  inspectors. 
Sometimes  while  the  inspectors  were  present 
steam  would  be  turned  on,  and  in  the  mist 
produced  by  the  steam,  the  inspectors  could 
see  nothing  of  this  fraud  and  were  glad  to 
escape  from  the  malodorous  place,  leaving 
the  packers  to  proceed  with  their  work 
without  detection.  The  picture  was  sketched 
by  the  man  himself  and  is  a  part  of  his 
sworn  statement. 


November, 

Digitized  by  Google 


QUISISANA  SANITARIUM 

We  represent  on  pages  145  and  160  views 
of  this  Sonthem  resort  for  the  benefit  of 
those  seeking  health,  especially  in  the 
winter  months.  It  is  located  at  Asheville, 
N.  C,  and  is  onder  experienced  manage- 
ment. It  is  called  "Quisiaana"  because 
this  is  the  Italian  word  for  "Here  you  will 
grow  well."  It  is  also  called  in  the  ad- 
vertisements ' '  Physiatric- Dietetic  Sanita- 
rinm,"  because  these  words  signify  the 
natural  cure  or  cure  of  disease  by  leading 
the  patient  back  to  nature  or  to  a  natural 
life  and  the  use  of  those  healing  factors 
which  assimilate  with  our  body;  air,  water, 
light,  proper  diet,  etc.  Diseases  usually 
originate  for  want  of  fresh  air.  proper  food, 
cleanliness,  proper  clothing  and  exercise. 
The  system  pursued  at  this  establishment 
includes  baths,  massage,  diet,  packs,  pours, 
Swedish  movements,  etc. 

Many  acute  diseases  have  been  cured  at 
this  place  by  a  single  pack,  one  massage 
treatment  or  with  one  Russian  bath  followed 
by  massage.  .  Chronic  diseases  require 
longer  treatment,  but  become  greatly  modi- 
fied in  a  short  time,  and  if  curable,  succumb 
after  a  regular  course  under  the  direction  of 
a  skilled  German  physician.  There  is  also 
a  skilful  lady  physician,  Minna  Knepper, 
M.  D.,  who  is  admirably  adapted  for  the 
work  in  which  she  is  engaged. 

The  institution  was,  indeed,  founded  by 
Dr.  Minna,  and  she  engages  the  German 
physician.  She  was  repeatedly  requested 
to  establish  a  Sanitarium  and  after  much 
searching.sheselected  thespot  at  Asheville, 
which  possesses  so  many  natural  attractions 
as  to  make  it  a  favorite  resort  as  well  as 
Sanitarium. 

The  climate,  beauty  of  scenery  and  charm 
of  country  life,  combined  with  urban  ad- 
vantages, render  this  a  place  that  can  be 
thoroughly  enjoyed,  especially  during  our 

1899 


more  northern  winters.  The  fecilities  for 
reaching  it  by  railroad  are  good.  Those 
who  usually  spend  the  winter  in  California 
can  here  get  similar  advantages  without  the 
long  journey. 

The  rates  are  moderate  and  can  be 
obtained  on  application  to  Miss  Lina 
Knepper,  the  secretary,  to  whom  we  are 
indebted  for  much  information  in  regard  to 
the  advantages  of  this  locality  and  the 
facilities  afforded  for  attaining  and  retain- 
ing health. 


THE  FLESH  EATERS'  LAMENT. 

The  Pawtucket  Evening  Times  publishes 
a  column  of  woeful  complaint  on  account 
of  the  increase  in  the  price  of  flesh,  stating 
it  has  been  raised  50  per  cent,  in  the  last 
two  years,  and  that  25  cent  beef  steak  is 
now  35  cents  and  may  go  higher.  This  is 
described  as  "alarming"  and  professes 
great  sympathy  with  the  Working  classes, 
regarding  it  as  an  essential  food  for  keeping 
the  strength  of  those  who  endure  great 
bodily  exertion.  All  the  recent  experiments 
of  physical  endurance  have  proved  that  the 
abstainer  from  flesh  can  endure  more 
physical  exercise  than  the  flesh-eater,  so 
that  flesh-eating  for  strength  is  a  most 
decided  delusion. 

Beef  steak  at  35  cents  a  pound  furnishes 
only  ^  pound  of  solid  or  nourishing  food, 
the  remaining  ^  of  a  pound  being  blood 
and  nrine.  Thus  the  deluded  flesh-eater 
is  paying  at  the  rate  of  {1.40  a  pound  for 
nourishment,  and  he  can  get  better  nourish- 
ment in  nuts,  peas,  beans  and  lentils  and 
for  less  than  an  average  of  ten  cents  a  pound. 
If  the /i'wiM  were  better  posted  he  would 
rejoice  rather  than  lament  that  people  were 
learning  to  do  withont  this  expensive  diet. 

Wail  no  longer,  our  poor  brother!  High 
prices  for  beef  is  a  blessing  in  disguise  to 
those  who  cannot  afford  to  pay  it. 


v  Google 


Food,  Home  and  Qarden. 


SUtlon  F.  (Nm  to  Chestnut  St.)   PI 
HKV.    MKNRV  S.  CUUBB,  Edilc 
fout  3uhscriptioii» 


Doe  Subscription,  50 
Adreitltements  per 


A  Vegetarian  Society  has  recently  been 
established  at  Milan,  Italy. 

Herr  Hotz  has  been  invited  to  Paris  to 
open  a  Vegetarian  restaurant. 


The  fifty-second  anniversary  of  the  Vege- 
tarian Society  was  held  at  Manchester, 
England,  October  i6,  1899. 


The  New  York  Vegetarian  Society  re- 
sumed its  meetings  for  the  winter  campaign 
on  Wednesday,  October  25,  at  465  Fifth 
avenue. 


We  gladly  offer  our  congratalations  to 
Dr.  Oldfield  and  his  bride,  Miss  Gertrude 
Hick,  on  their  marriage,  September  29,  at 
Wakefield  Cathedral,  England. 


The  French  botanist  Andre'  has  found  a 
new  fruit  tree,  Feiyoa  sellowlana.  It  grows 
1 2  feet  high  and  bears  a  berry  the  shape  of 
an  egg,  flavored  like  pineapple. 


Since  writing  the  article  on  Quisis 
we  have  received  a  letter  from  a  Philadel- 
phia lady  who  has  been  there  and  received 
some  treatment,  which  we  will  publish  in 
our  next  issue. 


Will  our  friends  help  us  circulate  Our 
Postscript?  We  have  issued  six  numbers, 
very  useful  for  enclosing  in  letters.  We 
sell  them  at  about  cost.  Why  not  put  them 
in  all  your  letters  ? 

152 


A  i.ji,l.iig  ..uiitc^t  aX.  Lcpan,  resulted  in  a 
victory  for  Herr  Dose,  a  Vegetetarian,  who 
won  notwithstanding  an  accident,  he  com; 
ing  in  contact  with  a  barbed-wire  fence, 
which  covered  him  with  blood. 


Mr.  A.  F.  Hills  advocates  the  use  of  oil 
as  an  aid  to  the  digestion  of  starch.  The 
oils  advertised  in  food  are  well  adapted  for 
this  purpose.  Our  own  experience  confirms 
Mr.  Hill's  views  on  the  importance  of  oil. 


VEGETARIAN  BOUILLON  STOCK. 
One  of  the  new  exhibits  at  the  Export 
Export  Exposition  is  Wahl's  Concentrated 
Bouillon  Stock,  purely  vegetable,  manu- 
factured by  a  company  of  the  same  name  in 
Chicago.  It  has  a  remarkable  resemblance 
in  flavor  to  the  soup  stock  made  from  beef. 
It  is  highly  concentrated,  so  that  a  40-cent 
bottle  will  make  sixty  cups  of  soup.  It  is 
used  iu  first-class  restaurants  and  hotels  in 
Chicago  and  elsewhere,  and  has  given  great 
satisfaction.  Its  resemblance  in  flavor  to 
meat  is  not  a  recommendation  to  old  Vegeta- 
rians, but  it  affords  pleasure  to  those  who 
still  retain  a  love  for  meat  flavors.  It  is 
said  to  have  a  good  gS^qX  in  cases  of 
inability  to  retain  food  on  the  stomach  and 
has  saved  lives  by  this  virtue  in  cases  of 
extreme  debility. 


ENGLISH  VEG.  RESTAURANTS. 

Mr.  Stanley  G.  Wight,  Detroit,  has  ar- 
rived home  from  his  trip  to  England.  He 
writes  he  was  well  served  at  the  Vegetarian 
Restaurants  in  London,  the  best  of  which 
he  considers  the  St.  George's  House,  near 
Trafalgar  Square.  Their  large  helping  of 
macaroni  for  6d.  is  very  fine  and  almost 
enough  for  a  dinner.  Their  dinuer  for  is. 
6d.  he  regards  as  more  than  can  be  eaten  at 
a  meal  unless  very  hungry.  A  new  Vegeta- 
rian restaurant  is  to  be  opened  at  Tottenham 
Court  Road  next  year.  Mr.  Wight  speaks 
November, 


of  the  pleasure  he  had  of  meeting  the 
prominent  Vegetarians  of  England  at  meet- 
ings iu  Memorial  Hall.  He  mentions  par- 
ticularly Mr.  Hills,  Dr.  Oldfield,  Rev.  Jas. 
Clark,  Mrs.  Owen  and  Mrs.  Wallace.  Also 
Madame  Veigle'  and  her  daughter,  who 
keep  a  large  stock  of  Vegetarian  supplies. 
Dr.  Kellogg's  visit  was  well  spoken  of  and 
created  a  good  feeling.  The  Vegetarian 
Restaiirants,  he  says,  are  well  patronized 
and  many  go  there  because  they  get  a 
satisfactory  meal  at  less  cost  than  elsewhere. 


was;  "Him  that  overcometh  will  I  make  a 
pillar  in  the  temple  of  my  God,"  a  passage 
from  the  address  to  the  church  at  Philadel- 
phia, Revelations  3:  12.  The  text  at  the 
funeral  service  00  the  following  Sunday 
was:  "And  the  Lord  God  planted  a  garden 
eastward  in  Kdeu  and  there  he  put  the  man 
whom  he  hadfoimed,"  Genesis  a  :  8.  He 
was  also  a  member  of  the  American  Vegeta- 
rian Society  in  1850,  and  of  the  V.  S-  A.  In 
1899,  and  a  supporter  of  the  cause. 


WILLIAM  CARISS. 
William  Cariss  was  born  October  15, 
i82i,andbe  plosed  his  earthly  career  on 
October  23,  1899.  He  had,  therefore, 
entered  his  79th  year.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  Bible  Christian  Church,  Philadelphia, 
during  his  whole  life,  having  been  baptised 
into  the  church  by  Rev.  Wm.  Metcalfe,  the 
founder,  November  18,  1821.  During  his 
long  and  useful  life  he  was  an  active  and 
very  valuable  member.  He  served  as 
trustee  during  the  last  44  years  and  as 
deacon  29  years.  He  also  served  as  Sunday 
School  Superintendent  15  years,  treasurer 
4  years  and  filled  the  vacancy  as  minister 
the  3  years  preceding  1876.  He  was  a 
foithful  preserver  of  the  interests  of  the 
Church,  having  for  many  years  diligently 
served  as  chairman  of  the  Property  Com- 
mittee. He  was  a  constant  attendant  on 
the  services  of  the  Church  and  combatted 
with  patient  perseverance  and  success  all 
the  injurious  habits  till  he  became  a  Bible 
Christian  in  reality  as  well  as  in  name.  His 
end  on  earth  was  a  simple  passing  away. 
He  had  taken  his  accustomed  walk  of  sev- 
eral miles  for  exercise  during  the  afternoon 
and  was  sitting  reading  the  daily  paper. 
He  leaned  his  head  back  and  left  his  body 
in  that  position  without  any  symptom  of 
disease  or  suffering.  The  text  at  his  funeral 
1899 


PHILA.  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

The  first  regular  meeting  of  this  Society 
was  held  on  October  18,  1899,  at  1023 
Foulkrod  Street.  Rev.  H.  S.  Clubb  read  a 
letter  from  Rev.  A.  T.  de  Learsy,  now  in 
the  Argentine  Republic,  describing  his 
missionary  efforts  there.  His  class  students 
have  mostly  adopted  Vegetarian  fare.  A 
letter  from  Mr.  Scott,  Duke,  Georgia,  was 
also  read.  Mr.  Clubb  spoke  on  "The 
Ethics  of  Vegetarianism,"  showing  that 
flesh-eating  blunted  the  moral  sensibilities 
and  darkened  the  mind  as  to  the  cruelty  of 
the  killing  and  maltreatment  of  man  and 
animals.  Dr.  J.  Harvey  Lovell  contended 
that  whenever  any  particular  food  caused 
those  who  partake  of  it  to  feel  that  they 
cannot  do  without  it,  it  should  be  given  up 
■  because  of  its  enslaving  effect  on  the 
appetite.  Sarah  Hall  commented  on  the 
Scripture  reading  and  an  impressive  inspi- 
rational address.  Miss  Frances  Albin,  sis- 
ter of  the  absent  president,  kindly  enter- 
tained the  meeting  by  organ  recitals. 


HOW  TO  STOP  WORRYING. 
In  the  Ladies'  Home  Journal  for  Septem- 
ber, Mary  B.  Page  discusses  this  subject, 
but  does  not  strike  the  root  of  the  difficulty. 
She  says  you  have  got  to  replace  worry  with 
something  else  just  as  we  introduce  light  as 


,.d  by  Google 


a  remedy  for  darkness,  but  worry  is-  the 
result  of  an  abnormal  condition  oftheuer- 
vous  system  usually  brought  about  by  tak- 
ing stimulating  food  and  drink,  such  as 
flesh-meat,  intoxicants,  tea,  coffee,  etc. 
Abstain  from  these  abnormal  habits  aud 
take  bracing  exercise  in  the  open  ait,  and 
the  irritated  condition  of  the  nerves  will  be 
superseded  by  a  quiet  and  healthy  state  of 
body  and  mind.  Then  worry  will  cease 
because  its  cause  is  removed. 


rous  but  a  carnivorous  animal.  Eating 
fruit  does  not  make  a  man  a  fruit  although 
he  becomes  frugivorous. 


EFFECT  OF  FOOD  ON  CHARACTER. 

The  Mauchester,  England,  Cii^  News,  in 
its  report  of  the  Natioual  Vegetarian  Con- 
gress lately  held  in  London,  states  that  Dr. 
Loretto  Kress,  an  American  lady,  said : 
"The  flesh  of  animals  tainted  the  blood  of 
human  beings,  and  affected  the  nervous 
system  and  the  mind  injuriously.  Professor 
BroDSon  Alcott,  of  Concord  University, 
said  that  if  a  man  ate  pig  he  became 
pigiSed,  and  if  he  ate  of  ox  he  beame 
oxified,  aud  so  on.  That  was  to  say  that 
the  nature  of  man  assimilated  that  of  the 
animals  upon  the  flesh  of  which  he  sub- 
sisted." 

Bronson  Alcott  may,  ina  humorous  vein, 
have  made  the  remark  here  attributed  to 
him,  but  he  could  hardly  have  made  it 
seriously  or  after  reflection.  Giving  flesh 
to  any  animal  makes  it  ferocious,  as  the 
lady  herself  showed  before  sitting  down,  by 
relating  that  "in  Berlin  a  Vegetarian  bear 
became  so  ferocious  on  being  given  meat 
that  he  had  to  be  killed ;  and  in  Michigan 
a  tame  bear  fed  upon  vegetables,  after  hav- 
ing been  fed  with  meat,  killed  and  ate  a 
dog." 

The  fact  is,  eating  a  lamb  does  not  make 
a  man  lamb-like,  but  its  tendency  is  to 
make  him  like  the  wolf,  the  lamb's  mortal 
foe.  And  so  in  eating  all  herbivorous 
animals.     It  does  not  make  him  a  herbivo- 

>54 


DRIKKING  AT  MEALS. 
BY  WILLIAM   CANBY   PBRRIS. 

When  meat  has  been  banished  forever 
from  your  table ;  when  lard  has  been  re- 
placed by  Vegetarian  oils;  when  tea,  coffee 
and  spices  are  regarded  by  you  as  so  many 
slow  poisons ;  when  milk  and  butter  come 
to  be  used  in  very  small  quantities,  if  at  all ; 
there  is  still  a  question  to  which  even  old 
Vegetarians  may  well  give  earnest  thought : 
why  drink  at  all  at  meals?  I  can  testify  by 
personal  experience  that  even  the  best 
of  food  swallowed  with  large  draughts  of 
water  results  in  imperfect  assimilation 
and  a  melancholy  frame  of  mind.  The 
habit  of  drinking  at  all  at  meals  is  nothing 
but  a  habit.  In  one  short  month  you 
may  replace  that  habit  by  a  much  better 
one,  and  your  enjoyment  of  meals  will  be 
incerased  rather  than  lessened. 

This  article  is  for  old  Vegeiarians  only. 
Friends,  we  know  that  drinking  between 
mouthfuls  sends  the  food  into  the  stomach 
deprived  of  the  saliva  so  necessary  to  assist 
in  converting  it  into  good  rich  blood.  Break 
the  habit,  aud  you  will  be  stronger  spirit- 
ually for  the  trifling  self-denial,  which  very 
soon  becomes  a  pleasure,  and  my  word  for 
it,  you  will  never  regret  it.  Your  stomach 
will  soon  do  its  work  so  much  more  easily 
and  perfectly  that  your  blood  will  be  en- 
riched and  you  will  overflow  with  mag- 
netism . 

Replace  your  tea  and  coffee  by  a  cup  of 
hot  water  and  drink  it  fifteen  minutes  be- 
fore meal  time.  It  is  true  that  the  stomach 
needs  a  warming  up  before  meals,  especially 
in  very  cold  weather.  But  plain  hot  water 
will  do  this  far  better  than  any 
drink. 


Navember.  I 

d  by  Google 


MENUS. 

BREAKFAST. 

Grapes. 

Steamed  Rice.  Orange  Honey. 

Graham  Gems. 

DINNER. 

Chestnut  Soup. 

Fried  Celery.         Potato  Balls. 

Salsify  Fritters. 

Brown  Bread.       Nut  Sandwiches. 

Banana  Salad.   Baked  Sweet  Apple  Dessert. 

Cereal  Coffee. 

Chestnut  Soup. — Take  the  outer  rind 
from  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  Spanish 
Chestnuts,  and  put  them  into  a  pan  of  warm 
wateron  the  fire.  As  soon  as  it  becomes 
too  hot  for  the  fingers,  take  out  the  chest- 
nuts and  peel  them  qnickly,  immerse  them 
in  cold  water,  wipe  and  weigh  them.  Now 
cover  them  with  a  quart  of  stock  made  from 
peas,  beans,  lentils  or  some  other  nitroge- 
nous food,  stew  them  gently  for  rather  more 
than  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  drain, 
pound,  rub  them  through  a  fine  wire  sieve 
reversed,  add  sufficient  salt,  and  stir  the 
mixture  until  it  boils.  The  rule  is  that 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  chestnuts 
shonld  be  given  to  each  quart  of  soup. 
The  above  is  sufficient  for  four  persons. 
From  Good  Health . 

Baked  Sweet  Apple  Dessert. — Wash  and 
remove  cores  from  a  dozen  sweet  apples 
and  four  sour  ones,  and  bake  until  well 
done.  Mash  through  a  colander  to  make 
smooth  and  remove  the  skins.  Put  in  a 
granite-ware  dish,  smooth  the  top  with  a 
knife,  return  to  the  oven  and  bake  very 
slowly  until  dry  enough  to  keep  the  shape 
when  cut.  Add  a  meringue,  cut  in  squares 
and  serve  in  individual  dishes. 
1899 


Orange  Honey. — Mix  together  the  juice 
of  three  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  one,  a 
small  cupful  of  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs. 
Cook  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  constantly, 
until  about  as  thick  as  honey.     Serve  cold. 

Banana  Salad. — Cut  four  bananas  into 
halves,  lengthwise,  then  each  half  again; 
place  these  pieces  in  a  glass  dish ;  sprinkle 
over  a  very  little  grated  rind  of  lemon  and 
the  juice  of  one-half  a  lemon;  then  sprinkle 
over  one-half  cupful  of  granulated  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  two  oranges;  place  on  ice 
several  hours  before  serving. 

A  clergyman  declares  that  a  fruit  diet 
had  taken  away  a  hereditary  craving  for 
alcohol  which  had  troubled  him  for  years. 

Fruit  is  nature's  medicine;  every  orange, 
every  plum  and  every  grape  is  a  bottle  of 
medicine,  but  it  is  not  repulsive  like  most  - 
of  the  druggists.'  An  orange  contains  pure 
water  rich  with  fruit  acids  medicinally 
balanced,  specially  cooling  to  the  thirst  of 
the  drunkard  and  soothing  to  his  diseased 
stomach. 

CO-OPERATIVE  DINING. 

According  to  the  Soda/ Cosfiei  about  40 
people  at  the  Commonwealth,  who  had 
been  taking  their  meals  at  private  house- 
keeping, have  gone  back  to  the  general 
dining  room  as  a  matter  of  choice.  Not 
only  is  it  more  economical,  but  there  is  a 
fellowship  and  esprit  de  corps  there  which 
can  be  found  nowhere  else, 

FRUIT  BUTTER. 

Butter  made  from  raisins  or  other  dried 
fruits  is  a  table  dainty  among  those  who 
possess  a   Vegetarian  Society  mill.      The 

,       '55 

.  ibvCiOoglc 


new  fruit  crop  of  the  season  is  now  coming 
in  and  fruit  butter  will  be  placed  ofl  the 
market.  It  will  make  these  valuable  and 
nutritious  fruits  more  available  for  daily 
use.  For  school  sandwiches  it  is  especially 
admired  and  appreciated  by  mothers  who 
desire  their  children  to  have  clear  heads 
like  Dr.  Franklin,  who  made  raisins  his 
daily  diet  while  studying. 

MET  BEFORE. 


Fotlo« 

ftlOlh 

T,  lid  with  V, 

Weolon 

J  findInK  no  ■ 

ndH 

HblhOB 

ghtaf 

ompalDbyjo) 

log  10 

■  fricDdshiple 

Alleagt 

gh  dmlb  Into 

And  Ihe 

ned  his  frifo. 

ThenH 
So«en> 

Ihitt 

m'who'imd" 

KKhoi: 

ODORS  IN  COOKING. 

Miss  Colling,  ill  her  lecture  on  "Some 
Dainties."  explained  how  strong  smelling 
vegetables,  such  as  cauliflower,  cabbage, 
turnips  and  onions,  may  be  boiled  without 
having  their  odor  penetrate  to  every  part  of 
the  house.  She  said,  "see  that  they  have 
an  abundance  of  water,  and  that  the  cover 
of  the  kettle  is  placed  on  securely,  and  then 
see  that  they  are  kept  at  a  simmering  point 
throughout  the  cooking,  and  you  will  have 
no  trouble  with  odors." — Phila.  Ledger. 
VEGETARIAN  SHOES. 

C.  T.  Simpson,  Maiden,  Mass.,  asks: 
"Win  Food,  Home  and  Garden  have 
anything  to  say  about  leather  shoes,  leather 
beds,  etc.,  and  substitutes  for  these? 
Should  we  wear  wooden  sandals,  wood- 
soled  shoes,  or  what  ? ' '  We  always  publish 
the  progress  of  invention  in  substituting 
other  materials  for  leather  and  other  animal 
substances.  The  last  was  asbestos  as  a 
substitute  for  leather.  No  objection  to 
wooden  sandals   and   wood-soled  shoes  as 

156 


worn  by  the  Chinese.  We  have  worn  for 
over  a  year  a  pair  of  Chinese  slippers  made  of 
vegetable  matting.  They  cost  18  cents  at 
the  Chinese  quarters.  New  York,  and  were 
kindly  presented  us  by  George  Brunswick. 
THE  PURE  AIR  OVEN. 

The  use  of  the  Goodrich  Pure  Air  Oven 
is  a  decided  improvement,  not  only  in 
regards  to  economy  in  gas,  but  in  the  con- 
venience in  baking.  In  baking  peanuts 
for  grinding  into  butter,  it  is  superior  to 
any  roaster  we  have  ever  seen,  as  it  bakes 
the  nuts  evenly  without  scorching  any, 
which  is  an  important  item  in  nut  butter 
making.     See  advt. 

V.  S.  PEANUT  BUTTER. 

Mrs.  Fannie  B.  Ballou,  Attleboro  Falls, 
Mass.,  writes;  "I  have  gotten  some  friends 
interested  in  eating  Peanut  Butter,  and  they 
ask  for  more.  They  say  they  have  tried 
other  preparations  and  find  none  like  the 
V.  S.  A,  Peanut  Butter.  Please  send  by 
freight  two  dozen  pint  cans,  for  which  I 
enclose  $6." 

Dr.  Edward  A.  Pennock,  Boston,  writes: 
"Dear  Mr,  Clubb. — Your  peanut  butter  is 
the  best  I  have  ever  tasted  and  I  have  tried 
all  the  brands  on  the  market.  My  little 
girl  wants  it  three  times  a  day,  and  we  let 
her  use  it  freely.  I  shall  be  able  to  send  . 
some  to  friends,  so  I  feel  that  I  can  easily 
use  twelve  pint  cans,  and  enclose  check  for 
$3  for  that  amount." 

Shelled  peanuts  are  said  to  yield  40  per 
cent,  of  oil,  or  8,65  lbs,  of  oil  from  a  bushel 
of  nuts  weighing  in  the  shells  23  lbs.  The 
production  of  these  nuts  is  becoming  a 
great  industry. 

Alcoholic  intemperance  has  been  suc- 
cessfully coped  with  in  Germany  by  the 
adoption  of  a  pure  diet  and  natural  curative 
agencies.  Fruit  is  considered  a  perfect 
antidote  for  the  drink  crave. 

November, 
Dbi-zsdbyGoOgle 


f 


The  Rural  New  Yorker  fiuds  the  Red 
Cross  currant  the  best. 

Green's  Fruit  Grower  gives  an  account  of 
a  woman  whose  husband  was  not  very 
strong,  who  saved  about  J5  a  week  by 
cultivating  her  little  vegetable  garden  and 
had  no  doctor's  bills. 

Two  sisters  in  Berks  Co.,  Pa.,  are  re- 
ported by  the  Philadelphia  Ledger  as  being 
successful  dairy  farmers,  having  marketed 
57,300  pounds  of  butter  in  22  years  A 
peanut  butter  factory  can  be  run  by  women 
quite  successfully  and  with  less  outlay  than 
a  cow  dairy. 

A  CROP  OF  PEANUTS. 

The  Social  Gospel  reports  that  the  peanut 
crop  at  the  Commonwealth  Community  has 
been  gathered  and  is  in  good  condition, 
both  as  to  the  fodder  and  nuts.  That  the 
crop  is  easily  raised  and  that  a  sure  market 
and  good  price  can  be  counted  on. 

CULTIVATING  VACANT  LOTS. 

The  Vacant  Lot  Association  of  Phila- 
delphia made  an  excellent  exhibition  of 
vegetables  at  Wanamaker's  store  this 
Fall.  The  good  done  to  needy  families  by 
this  association  cannot  alone  be  counted  in 
dollars,  although  in  that  respect  it  is  mak- 
ing an  excellent  showing,  but  the  higher 
tone  of  morality  and  independence  and  the 
improved  condition,  mental  and  physical, 
of  the  families  who  availed  .themselves' of 
the  opportunity  to  cultivate  vegetables  and 
fruit  and  to  live  upon  their  own  produce, 
form  important  features  of  the  vacant  lot 
culture.  Mr.  Wanamaker  has  materially 
aided  the  enterprise  by  furnishing  land  and  , 
giving  space  for  this  exposition. 
1899 


The  Vineland  Independent  says  the  inten- 
sive farmer  is  making  more  money  than  the 
extensive  because  he  has  only  half  the  land 
to  fence,  plow,  hoe  and  harrow,  half  the 
seed,  fertilizer  aud  traveling  over  the  land, 
and  yet  has  as  large  a  yield  to  harvest. 
AGAINST  SEWAGE  FERTILIZERS. 

The  Scientific  American  states  that  in- 
vestigations of  sewage  irrigation  of  track 
farms  south  of  Los  Angeles,  Cal.,  resulted 
in  the  recommendation  of  the  health  officers 
to  prohibit  the  use  of  sewage  for  fertilizing 
certain  vegetables  and  fruits,  the  use  of 
sewage  for  such  purposes  being  injurious  to 
public  health.  It  has  been  found  that  the 
use  of  sewage  in  Frankford,  Phila.,  aflfects 
the  flavor  and  quality  of  the  vegetables  and 
fruits  produced.  We  have  always  con- 
tended that  animal  manure  should  not  be 
applied  to  vegetable  and  fruit  gardens. 
A  WOMAN'S  FRUIT  FARM. 

Green's  Fruit  Grower  gives  an  account  01 
a  woman  who  went  to  Allendale,  Ottawa 
County,  Michigan,  and  bought  a  farm  of  40 
acres;  30  trees  and  7  dilapidated  buildings. 
She  attended  Pomological  meetings,  took 
Green's  Fruit  Grower  and  now  has  300 
peach  trees,  35  pear  trees,  26  plum  trees 
and  in  the  hen  park  10  damson  trees,  18 
cherry  trees,  14  grape  vines,  blackberries, 
raspberries,  currants,  mulberries  and  straw- 
berries. Along  the  roadside  are  set  23 
standard  pear  trees,  30  apple  trees  and  oc- 
casionally a  sugar  maple.  Her  sister  visited 
her  lately,  and  looking  her  in  the  face, 
said :  "You  never  used  to  have  red  cheeks. 
It  must  be  your  way  of  living."  This  has 
all  been  done  by  her  own  industry,  having 
but  very  little  money  to  start  with. 


jBvGoCi^lc 


:«S£a 


MR.  MOORE'S  TOMATO  TRELLIS 

On  the  opposite  page  we  give  an  illustra- 
tion showing  the  method  adopted  by  our 
neighbor,  Mr.  Thomas  Moore,  of  1033 
Foulkrod  street,  Frankford,  in  training 
tomato  vines.  He  builds  a  trellis  about  8 
feet  high,  with  pine  strips,  ij^xi  in.,  and 
runs  another  strip  of  similar  dimensions 
along  the  top.  These  stakes  are  about  24 
inches  apart.  Against  each  stake  he  plants 
early  in  the  Spring,  a  tomato  plant,  which 
he  trains  as  it  grows,  so  as  not  to  allow  any 
side  shoots  until  the  top  bar  is  reached  by 
the  plant.  Then  the  plant  is  allowed  to 
spread  along  the  top  bar  on  each  side. 

The  stems  of  the  plants  become  fully  3 
inches  in  circumference  and  become  quite 
hard  and  fibrous  by  the  Fall  of  the  year. 

The  crop  this  year  on  19  stakes  averaged 
fully  40  good  tomatoes  to  the  plant,  and 
some  of  the  tomatoes  weighed  24  ounces 
each.  The  fruit  is  round,  compact  and 
solid,  smooth-skinned  and  remarkably  free 
from  blemishes  or  protuberant  shapes. 

An  early  frost  the  beginning  of  October 
shrivelled  most  of  the  leaves  but  the  crop 
was  saved,  and  what  was  not  ripe  put 
away  in  the  cellar  to  ripen  for  Christmas 
time.  Some  of  the  vines  this  year  grew  12 
feet  high.  We  presume  Mr.  Moore  will 
make  walking  canes  of  the  timber.  This 
is  the  second  year  of  adopting  this  method. 
It  is  not  only  economical  as  to  space,  but 
it  becomes  quite  a  decoration  for  the  front 
or  back  garden,  and  the  trellis  presents  a 
very  t>eautiful  appearance  when  in  full  bear- 
ing of  fine,  handsome  tomatoes.  Mr.  Moore 
says  he  gathered  altogether  five  bushels  of 
tomatoes. 

The  picture  was  taken  in  July  before  the 
vines  had  grown  their  usual  size.  In  Sep- 
tember the  whole  trellis,  including  the  top 
bar,  was  completely  covered  with  vines 
bearing  the  bright  red  tomatoes,  presenting 

158 


a  most  attractive  scene  In  city  gardens, 
where  space  is  usually  very  limited,  this 
plan  commends  itself  as  a  matter  of  economy 
and  beauty. 

THE  PEANUT. 

The  rise  in  the  price  of  Peanuts  oc- 
casioned by  the  increasing  demand  and  the 
Peanut  Trust,  should  cause  thousands  to 
embark  in  this  industry,  so  as  to  make 
peanuts  one  of  the  greatest  crops  iu  the 
United  States. 

The  farmers'  Bullclin,  No.  25,  issued  by 
the  Agricultural  Department,  Washington, 
contains  valuable  instruction  in  regard  to 
the  cultivation  of  peanuts.  It  should  be 
procured  by  every  one  who  intends  to 
cultivate  the  plant.  From  this  we  copy  the 
engraving  of  the  plant.  It  is  a  picture  of 
the  Virginia  Peanut,  the  running  ^'ariety, 
and  gives  a  very  good  idea  of  the  form  of 
the  plant.  It  was  engraved  for  us  by  the 
Conger  Engraving  Co.,  of  Linneus,  Mo., 
and  is  a  fair  sample  of  the  engravings  pro- 
duced by  their  rapid  process. 

The  cultivation  of  the  peanut  is  not  at  all 
difficult  as  described  by  the  Farmer's 
Bulletin,  from  which  we  quote : 

"The  Virginia  running  variety  of  the 
peanut,  being  most  widely  known  and  most 
popular  with  tlie  trade,  may  be  taken  as  the 
typical  American  peanut.  Its  vines  are 
large  with  spreading  branches,  growing 
flat  on  the  ground  and  bearing  pods  over 
almost  their  entire  length.  The  pods  ate 
large  and  white,  weighing  about  22  pounds 
to  the  bushel.  The  Virginia  bunch  variety 
grows  erect  and  fruits  near  the  tap-root, 
but  produces  pods  very  closely  resembling 
those  above  described." 

For  an  interesting  account  of  the  different 
varieties  of  peanuts,  we  refer  the  reader  to 
the  Guide  to  Nut  Cookery,  by  Mrs.  A. 
Lambert,  of  Battle  Creek,  Mich.,  which  is 
advertised  on  advertising  page  3. 

November,  i 

oogle 


MR.  THOMAS  MOORE  AND  HIS  TOMATO  VINES. 


THE  VIRGINIA  PEANUT  {Arachis  kypogaa.) 

Digii,2sdb,  Google 


db,  Google 


°  s 
2  fc 


db,  Google 


KRNEST  HOWARD  CROSBY,  B.  LL. 


Digitized  by  Google 


"p®©B,  jd!®^K  ^K®  &^I1B®K. 


Vol.  Ill,  NswSbrihs,  No.  35. 


DECEMBER,   1899. 


Wholb  Ndmber  108. 


ERNEST  HOWARD  CROSBY,  B.  LL 


WE  present  by  coartesy  of  The  So- 
dal  Gospel  oi  Xh&  Commotiwealth, 
Georgia,  a  half-tooe  portrait  of 
Ernest  Howard  Crosby,  son  of  the  late  Rev. 
Howard  Crosby,,  D.  D.,  of  New  York, 
Ernest  H.  Crosby  was  bom  November  4, 
1856.  He  graduated  at  the  head  of  bis 
class  in  the  University  of  New  York  City 
in  1876;  received  the  degree  of  Bachelor 
of  Laws  at  Columbia  College  in  1878,  and 
began  the  practice  of  law  on  completing  his 
studies,  and  became  a  member  successively 
of  the  firms  of  Crosby  &  Hoffman  and 
Crosby  &  Crosby,  in  New  York.  He  was 
elected  to  the  legislature  in  1886,  and  re- 
elected twice.  In  1889,  he  was  nominated 
by  President  Harrison  to  be  Judge  of  the 
International  Tribunals  in  Egypt,  to  which 
position  he  was  appointed  by  the  Khedive. 
This  was  an  appointment  for  life,  but  Mr. 
Crosby  resigned  at  the  end  of  five  years  and 
returned  to  his  native  state.  On  his  way 
he  called  to  see  the  eminent  Vegetarian, 
Tolstoi,  and  abandoning  politics,  he  has  de- 
voted himself,  like  Tolstoi,  to  farming  and 
reform.  As  alecturer,  \he  Social  Gospel  says: 
"His  profound  moral  convictions,  mas- 
terly grasp  of  his  subjects,  clear  fresh 
thought  and  swift  flow  of  language  chain 
attention.  He  knows  how  to  be  satirical, 
and  his  sense  of  humor  adds  not  a  little  to 
his  popularity  on  the  lecture  platform." 
1899 


We  wrote  him  for  his  experience  in 
Vegetarian  practice  and  recieved  the  follow- 
ing reply : 

"Vegetarianism  appears  to  me  (and  has 
always  appeared  since  it  first  attracted  my 
attention)  as  covering  a  pwrtion  only  of  the 
field  of  action  which  a  man  must  enter  upon 
if  he  determines  to  place  himself  in  right 
relations  to  the  world  around  him.  When 
I  once  became  convinced,  as  I  did  some 
eight  years  or  more  ago,  that  the  relation 
which  I  bore  to  the  world  was  one  of  in- 
justice, I  was  unable  to  restrict  that  criti- 
cism to  my  position  towards  mankind,  for 
the  same  reasoning  applied  to  my  position 
towards  the  brute  creation.  The  intention 
to  make  the  experiment  was  crystalized  by 
a  chance  meeting  with  an  American  gentle- 
man of  my  own  name  who  was  nearly 
seventy  years  old  and  had  not  tasted  meat 
since  he  was  thirteen.  He  happened  to 
lunch  with  me  while  I  was  serving  as  judge 
of  the  International  Tribunal  in  Egypt,  and 
his  account  of  his  experiences  made  an  im- 
pression upon  me.  I  remember  that  he 
boasted  of  having  served  through  the  war 
without  eating  meat,  apparently  considering 
the  killing  of  men  as  less  harmful  than  the 
killing  of  animals — one  of  those  little 
inconsistencies  to  which  Vegetarians  are 
prone,  if  they  forget  the  wide  bearings  of 
true  humanity. 

■  63 
Digitized  by  Google 


"A  few  months  later  1  visited  Count 
Tolstoi  in  Russia  and  found  him  an  extreme 
Vegetarian.  I  told  him  that  I  hoped  to  try 
it  some  day.  'Your  wife  will  do  all  she 
can  to  prevent  it,  you  may  be  snre,'  he 
replied,  but  in  this  respect  he  proved  to  be 
a  false  prophet.  I  remember  reading  an 
article  aboat  this  time  in  an  English  review 
by  Lady  Paget,  recommending  Vegetarian- 
ism, but  stating  that  she  had  found  the  diet 
very  difficult  to  adopt  and  had  made  the 
effort  once  or  twice  before  she  succeeded. 
Now  that  I  have  lived  upon  a  Vegetarian 
diet  for  a  considerable  time  without  any 
difficulty  whatever,  I  cannot  understand 
what  she  meant.  It  was  partly  in  con- 
sequence of  reading  this  article  that  I  took 
up  the  new  diet  gradually,  and  I  am 
inclined  to  think  it  is  a  good  plan.  It  most 
have  been  about  the  first  of  June,  1896,  that 
I  began  to  eat  meat  only  once  a  day.  This 
was  a  slight  change  which  would  have  no 
injurious  effect  on  health,  and  furthermore 
could  not  cause  much  of  a  domestic  com- 
motion. At  the  end  of  a  year  the  family 
had  become  accustomed  to  see  me  refuse 
meat  at  lunch  and  when  I  began  to  do  the 
same  at  dinner,  it  attracted  little  attention. 
I  continued  to  take  soup  until  June  i,  1898, 
and  fish  until  June  ist  of  this  year,  taking 
one  step  each  year.  I  still  eat  eggs  and 
dairy  products,  but  I  confess  that  they 
worry  me,  aud  the  butchering  of  calves 
which  this  necessitates,  is  the  meanest  kind 
of  butchery. 

"This  gradual  change  of  diet  has  had  no 
effect  whatever  upon  my  liealth.  I  am 
conscious  of  no  alteration  in  my  physical  or 
mental  condition,  and  my  weight  is  precise- 
ly the  same  as  it  was  before.  Nor  has  the 
change  caused  me  the  slightest  effort  of 
will.  II  has  not  required  the  least  self- 
denial  and  I  have  no  desire  to  eat  meat. 
It  is  not  like  giving  up  a  stimulant.  I 
t64 


stopped  smoking  eight  years  ago,  and  I 
still  dream  of  cigars  and  am  still  tempted 
by  them,  but  to  give  up  meat  is  child's 
play  in  comparison.  My  only  reason  for 
not  eating  meat  is  that  I  dislike  the  cruelty 
of  it.  That  seems  to  me  the "  strongest 
argument  to  use,  and  I  think  that  Vegeta- 
rians often  injure  the  cause  by  assuring^ 
healthy  looking  meat-eaters  that  they  are 
swallowing  poison  when  their  appearance 
proves  that  the  assertion  is  at  least  doubt- 
ful. A  cause  always  needs  to  be  protected 
from  its  most  fanatical  sapporters.  It  should 
be  self-evident  to  a  humane  man  that  if  he 
can  be  just  as  strong  and  well  on  a  diet 
that  does  not  cause  suffering  to  others  as  on 
a  diet  which  does  cause  much  suffering,  it 
would  be  better  for  him  to  select  the  former. 
Using  this  argument,  I  should  endeavor  to 
perstiade  a  man  to  adopt  a  Vegetarian  diet 
gradually  and  I  am  sure  he  would  not 
know  the  difference.  The  real  difficulty 
will  present  itself  when  one  is  dining 
out  and  in  general  company,  aud  then 
sometimes  I  confess  I  am  not  as  strict  as  I 
might  be.  The  laws  of  hospitality  have 
their  claim,  too.  Still,  even  after  my  short 
novitiate,  I  should  find  it  disagreeable  to 
eat  a  solid  piece  of  meat." 

We  are  glad  to  add  Mr.  Crosby  to  the 
list  of  those  who  have  g^ven  up  fiesh-eating 
from  motives  of  humanity.  The  gradual 
way  in  which  this  was  done  appears  to  have 
made  no  perceptible  difference  in  Mr. 
Crosby's  health,  although  it  is  impossible 
to  tell  how  he  would  have  been  by  this 
time  had  he  continued  fiesh-eating;  the 
rheumatism  and  other  chronic  troubles  to 
which  flesh-eaters  are  especially  subject,  he 
has  escaped  by  abstaining  before  these 
unpleasant  symptoms  appeared.  Plesh- 
eaters  often  have  a  healthy  appearance  be- 
fore the  chronic  effects  of  their  dietetic 
habits  are  discovered. 

December. 
DioizsdbvGoOQle 


iFoop  homePgIrdenI 


IS  THE  EDENIC  LIFE  PRACTICAL? 
A  Discourse  delivered  at  the   Bible 
Christian  Church,  Park  avenue,  Phila- 
delphia, on  November  5,  1899,  by 
Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb. 

Prox'C  thy  servants.  I  beseech  thee,  ten  days; 
and  let  them  give  us  pulse  to  eat  and  water 
to  drink. — Daniel  i:    12, 

Those  who  accept  the  Word  as  a  revela- 
tion of  God's  will  to  man  are  not  sur- 
prised that  one  part  bears  out  another  and 
is  a  confirmation  of  the  other.  The  ideal 
life  laid  down  in  the  first  chapter  of 
Genesis,  or  what  we  call  the  Edenic  Life, 
is  a  life  of  love.  The  Garden  represents 
intelligence  and  Eden  love.  These  united 
are  the  two  elements  that  constitute  a  life  of 
true  enjoyment,  a  life  in  which  love  reigns 
supreme,  guided  in  detail  by  intelligent 
thought.  It  is  undoubtedly  the  wise  pro- 
vision of  the  Creator  that  his  creature,  man, 
should  live  an  intelligent  life  of  affection. 

It  is  a  life  in  which  the  highest  and  best 
thoughts  rule  our  action  and  govern  our 
character. 

This  Edenic  Life  is  the  ideal  life  of  man. 
a  life  in. which  love  is  the  propelling  force 
and  intelligence  or  wisdom  the  directing 
power..  The  life  thus  realized  is  the  Garden 
of  Eden  or  an  earthly  Paradise,  Into  this 
garden  the  Lord  desires  to  put  man.  The 
Garden  of  Eden  is  not  only  a  place,  but  a 
state  or  condition  of  life,  and  the  question 
before  us  is:  Is  it  practical  to  enter  this 
state  in  our  present  surroundings? 

Daniel  as  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  was 
devoted  to  the  Edenic  Life  and  desired  to 
live  it.  His  position  in  Babylon  as  a  captive 
or  prisoner  of  war  was  the  most  unfavorable 
possible  to  leading  an  ideal  or  lidenic  life. 
The  selection  of  himself  and  three  com- 
panions from  among  the  cipiives  was  un- 
doubtedly on  account  of  his  superior  talent, 
1899 


ability  and  personal  comeliness.  He  was  a 
person  in  whom  the  moral  and  spiritual 
nature  so  predominated  as  to  make  him 
desirable  as  a  courtier  to  adorn  the  palace 
of  the  King,  and  he  and  his  three  compan- 
ions were  selected  for  this  purpose  and  such 
as  the  King  desired  to  stand  before  him 
among  the  princes  of  the  realm.  These 
were  all  to  be  fed  with  the  meat  and  dainties 
of  the  King's  table. 

But  Daniel  had  read  the  Scriptures  and 
had  made  them  his  guide;  he  therefore 
knew  from  study,  inspiration  and  experi- 
ence that  the  "herb  bearing  seed  and  the 
fruit  tree  yielding  fruit"  were  ordained  for 
and  therefore  constituted  the  best  possible 
food  for  human  sustinence.  He  therefore 
purposed  in  his  heart  that  he  would  not 
defile  himself  with  any  portion  of  the 
King's  meat.  It  was  not  merely  objection- 
able on  account  of  the  idolitrous  worship 
with  which  it  was  associated,  but  it  was 
unfavorable  to  that  health  and  comeliness 
which  it  was  desired  to  secure  in  the 
courtiers  who  were  to  wait  upon  the  King 
and  to  that  intelligence  and  wisdom  which 
the  King  required.  It  is  impossible  to 
conceive  of  a  position  in  which  this  Edenic 
life  which  Daniel  purposed  in  his  heart  to 
live  was  less  practical.  Here  was  the  order 
of  the  King,  which  in  Babylon  was  the  law 
of  the  realm.  It  required  Daniel  and  his 
three  companions  to  be  fed  on  the  King's 
dainties  and  wine,  in  order  that  they  might 
be  fit  subjects  to  stand  before  the  King  and 
adorn  his  palace.  How  could  this  ordinance 
be  suspended  to  suit  these  captives? 

Daniel  had  already  been  brought  into 
favor  and  tender  love  with  the  prince  of 
the  Eunuchs,  This  was  undoubtedly  on 
account  of  his  personal  superiority.  Daniel 
was  a  young  man  of  great  personal  and 
manly  beauty  and  his  charms  of  person 
were    enhanced    by     bis   high   moral   and 


d  by  Google 


spiritual  developnienl.  He  was  an  lidenic 
man.  He  bad  striven  so  far  as  in  him  lay 
to  live  a  loving,  Edenic  life.  It  was  a  life 
of  purity,  of  mercy  and  kindness  to  all  of 
God's  creatures.  Such  a  youth,  even  in 
captivity,  impressed  the  Prince  of  the 
Eunuch's  so  favorably  as  to  draw  out  a 
tender  sentiment  of  affection.  Love  usually 
begets  love  and  Daniel's  request  to  the 
Prince  through  Melzer  to  have  the  matter 
tried  as  an  experiment  ten  days  seemed 
reasonable,  and  even  at  the  risk  of  offending 
the  King  and  exciting  the  King's  wrath, 
which  might  endanger  the  Prince's  life,  he 
consented  and  the  experiment  was  made. 
It  was  not  without  misgivings  on  the  part 
of  the  Prince  that  the  result  would  be  un- 
favorable; believing  that  their  faces  would 
be  worse-looking  than  those  of  the  children 
fed  on  the  King's  meat.  But  the  Prince 
consented  and  the  result,  even  in  ten  days, 
was  that  their  countenances  appeared  fairer 
and  fatter  in  flesh  than  the  countenances  of 
all  the  children  that  ate  of  the  King's  meat. 

That  settled  the  matter,  and  "Melzer  took 
away  the  portion  of  the  meat  and  wine  that 
they  should  drink  and  gave  them  pulse. 

Dr.  Talmage  iguoranlly  asserts  that 
pulse  is  a  worthless  weed,  and  that  Daniel's 
living  and  thriving  on  it  was  a  miracle,  but 
this  is  not  true. 

The  term  pulse  applies  in  botany  to  those 
seeds  that  grow  in  legumes  or  pods ;  hence 
peas,  beans,  lentils  and  locust  seeds  are 
known  as  pulse,  and  as  all  these  were 
known  in  the  East  as  common  articles  of 
food,  they  undoubtedly  were  provided  for 
these  captives  in  the  place  of  tlie  meat 
served  to  the  other  selected  children. 

At  the  end  of  three  years  these  young 
people  were  all  brought  before  the  King, 
his  object  being  to  select  the  best  for  his 
highest  and  most  responsible  positions  in 
the  Court. 


Nebuchadnezzar,  it  is  recorded,  com- 
muned with  them  and  among  them  all  was 
found  "none  like  Daniel,  Hananiah,  Mish- 
ael  and  Asariah,  therefore  stood  they  before 
the  King." 

It  is  also  recorded  thai  in  all  matters  of 
wisdom  and  understanding  that  the  King 
inquired  of  them,  he  found  them  "ten  times 
better  than  all  the  magicians  and  astrologers 
that  were  in  all  his  realm." 

It  cannot  be  said  that  this  experiment 
was  not  an  impartial  one.  It  was  made  by 
princes  who  were  unbelievers  in  the  Edenic 
life.  It  was  made  at  a  palace  noted  for  its 
indulgences-  in  the  luxurious  living  of 
Eastern  monarchs.  The  Prince  of  the 
Eunuchs  was  afraid  of  the  result,  so  it 
could  not  be  that  the  experiment  was 
conducted  by  any  oue  interested  in  promot- 
ing Edenic  ideas,  but  was  an  entirely  dis- 
interested experiment  resulting  in  a  marked 
degree  favorable  to  Edenic  living. 

If  the  Edenic  life  be  practical  and  every 
way  successful  in  a  palace  surrounded  by 
luxury  and  excess,  can  there  be  any  position 
where  it  is  not  practical  ? 

Does  not  the  Bible  record  thus  verily 
itself? 

The  fact  that  all  the  astrologers  and 
learned  men  were  inferior  to  Daniel  and  his 
companions  was  proved  in  after  experience, 
wherein  Daniel  showed  himself  equal  to 
every  position  in  the  kingdom  to  which  he 
was  promoted,  to  the  great  discomfort  of 
the  Babylonian  nobles.  Thus  it  will  be 
seen  that  the  objection  sometimes  raised 
against  this  mode  of  life,  that  it  is  unfavor- 
able to  promotion  to  the  higher  positions  of 
social  and  political  influence  is  shown  to  be 
untenable,  as  Daniel  rose  in  spite  of  all 
opposition  and  prejudice  to  the  highest 
positions  in  the  realm. 

That  Edenic  living  is  equal  to  any  test 
that  may  be  applied  to  it  in  its  intellectual, 
December, 
D.n.  Joy  Google 


moral  and  spiritaal  influence  and  effects,  is 
shown  conclusively  by  this  record,  so 
that  it  is  perfectly  consistent  \pith  the 
teachings  of  the  Bible  to  make  this  Bdenic 
Hfe  a  religions  principle  in  the  life  of  every 
member  of  the  Christian  Church.  May  we 
all,  like  Daniel,  stand  np  for  principle, 
even  in  the  Courts  of  Kings,  and  maintain 
onr  consistency  even  nnder  circumstances 
of  adverse  criticism,  persecution  or  ridicule. 
Let  us,  in  the  words  of  the  poet — 
"Dare  to  be  a  Daniel." 


THE  PUGET  SOUND  REGION. 

BY  J.  O.  CI^RK. 

I  have  not  found  here  an  Eden  nor  a  very 
near  approach  to  that  ancient  abode  of  bliss 
and  innocence,  but  I  have  found  here  more 
people  who  subsist  on  the  Edenic  diet  than 
I  had  ever  seen  before.  There  are  not 
many  of  them  in  any  one  place,  but  they 
are  scattered  all  over  the  faraons  Puget 
Sound  region,  and  their  indnence  for  good 
has  been  great.  In  Seattle  there  is  a 
Vegetarian  restanrant  and  one  in  Tacoma. 
Nearly  all  of  the  health  foods  that  have 
been  manufactured  so  extensively  in  the 
last  few  years  are  on  sale  in  both  places, 
where  there  are  also  large  mills  that  make 
Graham  and  whole  wheat  flour,  oatmeal, 
hominy,  etc.,  of  a  superior  quality.  Large 
quantities  of  the  products  of  these  mills  are 
sold  by  the  country  storekeepers.  Less 
meat  is  used  here  at  Colby  than  in  any 
place  I  have  ever  lived.  I  have  often  seen 
more  hogs  kept  for  the  use  of  the  planter's 
family  on  a  single  plantation  in  the  South 
than  all  that  I  have  seen  in  Washington, 
and  more  hog  products  there  in  a  single 
country  store  than  in  all  of  the  country 
stores  that  I  have  visited  here. 

Except  in  some  of  the  extreme  Southern 
States,  more  fresh  ripe  fruit  can  be  gathered 
daily  here  a  greater  part  of  the  year,  than 
1899 


in  any  of  the  most  noted  fruit  belts  east  of 
the  Rockies.  To-day,  November  17,  I 
gathered  some  fine  ripe  blackberries  from 
bushes  that  will  continue  to  bear  abundant- 
ly until  stopped  from  bearing  by  frost, 
which  may  not  be  for  a  month  or  more  yet. 
This  blackberry  is  an  everbearing  variety 
that  was  brought  here  from  the  South  Sea 
Islands.  It  is  perfectly  hardy  and  never 
&ils  to  bear  enormous  crops  almost  without 
care,  when  planted  on  good  ground. 

All  the  fruits  that  grow  in  a  temperate 
climate,  except  grapes  and  peaches,  grow 
to  rare  perfection  in  the  Sound  country 
when  rightly  managed.  Grapes  and  peaches 
can  also  be  grown,  but  not  of  a  very  good 
quality.  A  Fall  crop  of  strawberries  can 
be  had  nearly  every  year  with  but  little 
extra  care.  Garden  vegetables  of  most 
kinds  yield  abundantly  and  the  quality  is 
unexcelled.  All  that  I  will  now  say  about 
the  climate  is  that  I  have  fonnd  it  more 
pleasant,  both  summer  and  winter  than  I 
expected,  and  that  I  have  not  met  any  one 
yet  who  has  lived  here  any  length  of  time 
who  has  any  desire  whatever  to  leave  the 
country  on  account  of  the  climate. 

In  my  opinion.  Vegetarians  in  the  East 
who  wish  to  change  their  location,  cannot 
find  a  better  place  than  here.  Climate,  soil 
and  all  natural  conditions  are  about  all  that 
could  be  desired.  Good  markets  for  every- 
thing are  right  at  our  door.  Steamboat  fare 
from  Colby  to  Seattle  and  back  is  only  35 
cents,  and  to  Tacoma  only  50  cents- 
Freight  rates  to  or  from  Seattle  are  one 
dollar  a  ton.  From  the  number  of  letters 
and  the  tone  of  them  that  I  received  in 
answer  to  my  ad.  in  Food,  Home  and 
Garden  last  year,  I  feel  quite  sure  that 
enough  Vegetarians  would  be  glad  to 
settle  here  to  form  quite  a  colony,  when 
the  advantages  are  well  known. 

Colby,  Wash.,  November  17,  1899. 

.  I.V Google 


Food,  Home  and  Qarden. 


81.,     SUHon  F,  INM  1 

■o  Cheslnnt  St.)    Phll.delphU, 

RBV.    HHNRY  P.  CLOBB,  Editor. 

,  four  subscrlpliom   Si.waynr. 

fhr  13  ifltcrt/oDs  Sro.    PerfMgc.laslile.tis.ootsblc, 
taa. 

The  price  of  paper  has  advanced ;  so  has 
the  price  of  material  of  which  mills,  nut 
butter,  etc.,  are  made.  We  cannot  meet 
these  increased  expenses  unless  our  friends 
help  us. 

The  increased  price  of  material  will  re- 
sult in  an  increase  in  the  price  of  mills  in 
1900,  so  any  person  desirous  of  obtaining  a 
mill  should  obtain  one  at  the  present  price 
this  month  if  they  want  to  avoid  the  increase. 


Mra.  IfOvell  and  her  daughter  Rose,  of 
Sewanee,  Tenn..  passed  through  Philadel- 
phia, on  November  30,  on  their  way  to 
Gibraltar,  They  visited  their  sister  and 
aunt,  Mrs.  Ogden.  They  spoke  highly  of 
the  Cumberland  Plateau  as  a  very  healthy 
location. 


ONE-CENT  STAMPS,  PLEASE. 
Will  our  friends  please  remit  in  one-cent 
stamps  for  fractions  of  a  dollar.  We  fre- 
quently have  to  buy  one-cent  stamps  when 
our  drawer  is  full  of  stamps  of  other  de- 
nominations. 


There  are  many  who  enjoy  the  advantages 
of  our  society  organization  such  as  the 
introductions  and  hospitality  it  affords, 
who  never  contribute  to  the  support  of  the 
cause.  It  is  the  more  necessary  that  those 
who  can  should  contribute.  Do  not  allow 
the  cause  to  fail  for  want  of  support ! 

We  present  this  month  a  picture  of  the 
ni embers  of  the  American  Pomological 
Society  in  convention  at  Horticultural  Hall, 
in  this  city.  This  is  a  tribute  of  apprecia- 
tion of  men  whose  lives  are  spent  in  pro- 
moting improvements  in  the  production  of 
choice  fruits,  and  making  them  abundant  in 
this  country. 


PEAT  A  MATERIAL  FOR  PAPER. 
Mr.  Karl  A.  Zschoerner  has  succeeded  in 
manufacturing  paper  pulp,  paper  and  card 
board  from  the  fibre  found  in  peat.  Now 
that  the  price  of  paper  is  advancing,  this 
discovery  will  probably  have  the  effec,t  of 
preventing  so  great  a  rise  in  price  as 
seemed  probable,  as  peat  is  so  abundant 
that  no  amount  of  monopoly  can  make  it 
dear. 


WELCOME ! 
Miss  Emily  Mantle,  of  Bolton,  England, 
kindly  introduced  by  Mr.  Harrington,  Sec- 
retary of  the  Bolton  Vegetarian  Society,  ar- 
rived in  Philadelphia  on  November  23,  and 
we  saw  her  off  to  Bellville,  Ohio,  ou  the 
24th.  She  intends  to  acquire  an  M.  D., 
and  will  probably  settle  in  this  country. 
She  has  conducted  two  Vegetarian  Res- 
taurants in  Bolton  and  comes  well  endorsed 
by  Mr.  Harrington. 


CHRISTMAS  GREETING. 
"It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  re- 
ceive" is  the  Christmas  motto.  We  have 
enjoyed  this  privilege  for  a  year  and,  with 
some  of  our  subscribers,  severalyears,  and 
now  we  desire  to  confer  the  greater  blessing 
on  them.  To  those  who  cannot  afford  to 
pay  for  their  back  dues,  we  say  allow  us  to 
present  them  to  you.  VVe/orgive  alldeblers, 
but  it  must  be  on  condition  that  they  renew 
their  subscription  for  the  coming  year  and 
so  enable  us  to  make  a  better  magazine  in 
1900  than  ever  before.  We  strive  to  keep 
abreast  of  the  times,  but  we  cannot  do  so 
unless   our  friends  secure    to    themselves 


Decemher- 
vLiOOglC 


more  of  the  blessing  of  giving.  The  neces- 
silies  of  Ike  cause  are  great  and  we  call  upon 
all  our  friends  to  make  this  Christmas  a 
blessed  one  to  themselves  by  contributing 
to  support  Food,  Home  and  Garden 
Let  us  hear  ^  from  all  our  friends  miora^ 
form  this  Christmas,  if  it  be  but  to  con- 
tribute a  one-cent  stamp.  So  may  they 
enjoy  the  blessing. 


THE  COMING  CONGRESS  IN  PARIS. 
The  Vegetarian  Federal  Union,  London, 
are  arranging  for  an  international  Congress 
to  be  held  in  Paris  next  June,  and  invite 
delegates  from  all  parts  of  the  world.  The 
Congress  is  to  last  three  days.  The  other 
three  days  of  the  week  can  be  taken  up  in 
viewing  the  Paris  Exposition.  Vegetarians 
and  Mends  in  America  who  desire  to  attend 
will  please  notify  us  as  early  as  possible,  in 
order  to  secure  the  best  terms  for  the  trip. 


HOG  FATTENING. 
Mr.  J.  M.  Depew  tried  fattening  hogs. 
Cholera  entered  his  pens  and  ruined  his 
business.  The  trouble  with  Depew  seems 
to  be  that  he  is  too  consciencious.  The 
cholera  may  condemn  hogs  as  unfit  for  food 
but  how  about  sausages?  Mr.  Depew  does 
not  seem  posted  in  hog  and  cattle  raising 
for  the  market.  He  has  at  last  settled  down 
to  fhiit  raising  in  Florida  and  says :  '  'I  am  a 
sort  of  Vegetarian  now,"  which  he  after- 
wards explains  to  mean  a  novice. 


KO-NUT. 
The  name  nutcoa  or  cocoanut  butter  has 
been  changed  to  Ko-nut.  Persons  who  do 
not  obtain  their  supply  through  our  agency 
write  us  to  visit  the  factory  and  report  to 
them  the  result  of  our  in  vest  i  gat  19  ns.  This 
we  have  done  and  we  find  it  is  made  from 
cocoanut  oil,  chiefly  obtained  from  the 
East  and  West  Indies.  That,  in  some  cases, 
1899 


the  oil  is  sometimes  rancid  when  it  arrives, 
but  that  by  the  process  of  mechanical  and 
chemical  and  the  free  use  of  water  and 
steam,  it  is  transferred  into  a  very  pure 
vegetable  fat  or  butter.  Every  lot  made  is 
carefully  tested,  so  that  not  a  trace  of 
impurity  of  any  kind  remains  in  it  and  it 
will  keep  good  many  years. 


IS  EDENIC  LIFE  PRACTICAL? 

The  discourse  in  reply  to  this  question 

has   been   published   in  pamphlet  form  for 

insertion  in  letters.     It  can  be  had  prepaid 

by  mail  at  $1.00  per  too  for  this  purpose. 


GOVERNMENT  RESERVATIONS. 

We  have  not  yet  received  sufficient  in- 
formation in  regard  to  United  States  Reser- 
vations to  enable  us  to  select  a  site  on 
government  lands  desirable  for  a  Vegeta- 
rian Colony. 


PERSONALS. 

Mr.  Ernest  H.  Crosby  has  published  a 
volume  entitled  "Plain  Talk  in  Psalm  and 
Parable,"  which  is  highly  spoken  of,  It 
has  not  arrived  for  review, 

Mr.  Stanley  G.  Wight,  of  Detroit,  favored 
us  with  a  call  recently  on  his  way  to  New 
Orleans.  He  has  been  a  Vegetarian  eight 
years  and  states  as  one  of  the  results  the 
cure  of  sciatica,  which  had  defied  doctors' 
skill  in  both  medical  and  electric  treatment. 
He  is  76  years  of  age,  but  we  took  him  to 
be  about  60. 

Lucy  Bissell  Sanders  has  issued  a  book 
entitled  "Dreh-ui-gean,  the  True  Secret  of 
Health  of  the  Body,  based  upon  Perfection 
of  Sanitary  Conditions,"  a  valuable  ad- 
dition to  health  literature.  It  insists  on 
removing  the  causes  of  disease  as  the  true 
remedy,  and  recommends  the  Universal 
Food  of  the  New  York  Health  Food  Co., 
made  of  wheat  geims. 


d  by  Google 


THE  UPRISING  OF  VEGETARIANS. 
Under  this  head,  Hayden  Carrath  is  per- 
mitted to  occupy  the  editorial  department 
of  the  Saturday  Evening  Post  (usnally  so 
carefully  edited)  with  disjointed  remarlcs 
that  seem  to  lack  even  the  redeeming  qual- 
ity of  wit.  One  would  think  trom  the 
heading  that  Vegetarians  were  uprising  in 
rebellion  on  account  of  the  high  price  of 
meat,  whereas  the  uprising  would  seem  a 
more  appropriate  charge  Against  the  flesh- 
eaters  who,  we  underatand,  are  now  taxed 
35  cents  a  pound  for  beefsteak.  They  are 
in  the  bands  of  the  butchers  who  have 
formed  a  combination  to  maintain  high 
prices.  Now  we  protest  that  the  Vegeta- 
rians are  not  in  rebellion.  They  are  not 
even  excited  on  the  subject  and  can  view 
with  much  complacency  the  rise  in  the 
price  of  meat.  They  do,  however,  look 
down  with  pity  on  their  flesh-eating  neigh- 
bors who  pay  35  cents  a  pound  for  that 
which  is  composed  of  70  per  cent,  water, 
10  percent,  nitrogen,  17.7  per  cent,  hydro- 
carbonate  and  2.3  per  cent,  mineral  sub- 
stance, the  water  being  just  what,  in  a 
short  time,  would  have  been  expelled  as 
urine,  had  not  the  animal's  life  functions 
been  stopped  by  the  butcher.  If  we  grant 
that  30  per  cent,  is  food,  those  who  are 
acting  under  the  delusion  of  flesh-eating 
are  paying  at  least  a  dollar  a  pound  for 
their  food  obtained  from  beef-steak,  and 
they  take  it  with  animal's  urine  for  sauce! 
What  a  cleanly  and  economical  habit  sure- 
ly. Will  those  who  desire  to  live  cleanly 
think  of  these  undisputed  facU  ? 


PHILA.  VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY. 

The  November  meeting  of  the  Philadel- 
phia Vegetarian  Society  on  the  i6th,  at 
1023  Fonlkrod  street,  Frankford,  was  well 
attended.  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb  presided. 
Miss  Lillie  Wheeler  ofBciated  at  the  organ. 


and  Rev.  Kenneth  Sylvan  Guthrie,  A.  M., 
Harvard,  and  Ph.  D.,  Tulane,  opened  with 
prayer.  The  president  introduced  Dr. 
Guthrie,  who  had  kindly  promised  to 
answer  the  question  "Why  I  am  a  Vegeta- 
rian?" Dr.  Guthrie  said  he.  had  not  be- 
come a  Vegetarian  from  the  usual  reasons 
of  cheapness,  future  necessity  of  the  world, 
or  even  on  the  ground  of  man's  constitu- 
tion, but  he  regarded  Vegetarianism  not  as 
an  end  but  a  means  to  an  end,  and  that  end 
was  the  attainment  of  a  pare  and  holy  life. 
In  the  first  place,  history  showed  those  who 
bad  attained  a  certain  degree  of  purity  and 
elevation,  naturally  dropped  the  practice  of 
eating  the  flesh  of  other  animals.  Secondly, 
that  the  horrors  of  the  process  of  preparing 
flesh  by  slaughter  were  such  that  he  be- 
lieved very  few  would  eat  flesh  if  they  had 
to  perform  the  act  of  slaughter,  an  act  so 
repulsive  to  a  humane  or  kindly  nature.  It 
was,  however,  no  less  immoral  to  hire 
others  to  do  it  for  us.  The  uncleanliness 
of  the  flesh  of  animals  was  his  third  reason : 
the  swine  is  infested  with  worms,  trichina; 
the  ox  or  cow  with  tuberculosis.  His 
fourth  reason  was  universal  compassion  for 
the  suffering  of  others.  His  fifth  reason 
was  that  flesh  is  an  intoxicant.  Not  a  food 
but  a  stimulant,  the  craving  for  it  is  animal 
and  must  be  conquered  in  order  to  attain 
perfect  self-control.  The  doctor  engaged 
the  attention  of  a  delighted  audience  by  an 
animated  and  kindly  discussion  of  these 
points,  making  the  golden  rule  his  principal 
reason  and  closed  by  reciting : 

I  hive  clinibA]  10  the  scam  of  age 
Aod  Riie  IL  a  Geld  in  the  put 
Where  I  HDk  with  the  body  at  tlmea. 
Id  Itie  ilough  o[  s  low  detlte. 
Bui  I  hear  no  yelp  of  a  beaaL, 

As  he  fnaudson  ihe  helghis  ofhO  life, 
witha  glimpse  ofhelghuUiat  are  higher. 
The  next  meeting  will  be  held  on  Thurs- 
day evening,  December  21st. 

December,, 
lyLiOOglC 


DINNER  MENU. 

Lentil  Soup.  Vegetable  Turkey. 

Chestnuts  a  la  Lyounaise. 

Brown  Bread.  Celery  Salad. 

Oranges.     Nuts.     Dates. 

Vegetable  Turkey. — Take  i  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  soak  in  water  and  drain.  Add  % 
cup  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans,  i  beaten 
egg,  I  teaspoon  dairy  butter,  i  teaspoon 
powdered  sage  or  parsley.  Season  to  taste, 
mix  all  well  together  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven. 

Celery  Salad. — Clean  a  nice  bunch  of 
celery  and  lay  it  for  one  hour  in  ice  water; 
then  cut  it  fine ;  place  the  celery  in  a  salad 
bowl ;  prepare  a  mayonnaise ;  pour  half  the 
dressing  over  the  celery;  mix  well  and 
cover  with  the  remainder;  garnish  with 
celery  leaves  and  serve. 
From  American  Kitchen  Magazine. 

Chestnuts  a  la  Lyonnaise. — Shell,  blanch 
and  boil  the  chestnuts  twelve  minutes,  or 
till  soft.  Drain  and  toss  them  about  in  hot 
fcutter,  in  chafing  dish  with  a  bit  of  fried 
onion  and  serve  at  once. 

Winter  Squash. — If  the  shell  be  soft  peel 
the  squash,  remove  the  seeds  and  steam  it 
or  cook  it  in  boiling  water  until  tender. 
Drain  dry.  add  seasoning  and  mash  fine. 
One  pint  of  squash  needs  one  tablespoon  of 
butter,  a  few  grains  of  pepper,  one-half  a 
teaspoon  of  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Squash 
may  be  baked  in  the  shell,  then  scraped 
out.  mashed  and  seasoned  as  above. 

Prussian  military  experiments  show  that 

severe  muscular  exertion  renders  the  blood 

very  poor  in  sugar,  and  that  sugar  renders 

tired  muscles  capable  of  renewed  exertion, 

1899 


while  saccharine  is  far  less  beneficial.  A 
similar  impression  prevails  in  Kentucky, 
where  the  sugar  is  mingled  with  mint  and 
other  ingredients. — Phila.  Ledger. 

Sugar  is  condemned  by  hygienists,  but  if 
taken  with  fruit  juices  it  will  not  be  found 
injurious,  we  believe. 

INTERISKEN  SANIT^VRIUM. 

We  learn  from  Home  Life,  published  at 
Kiugman,  Kansas,  that  Dr.  D.  H.  Reeder, 
who  started  the  Home  Health  Club,  has 
located  at  La  Porte,  Ind.,  and  intends  to 
make  Interisken  Sanitarium  the  head- 
quarters of  the  Club,  which  now  nnmbers 
4000  members.  It  is  a  beautiful  estate  near 
La  Porte.  Dr.  Reeder's  method  is  now 
called  "Mechano-Therapy." 

BANANA  FLOUR. 

The  fruit  is  peeled  by  splitting  the  skin 
longitudinally  and  giving  it  a  rotary  motion 
with  the  hands.  The  peel  having  been 
thus  detached  the  fruit  is  cut  into  thin 
transverse  slices,  which  are  dried  in  the 
sun  or  in  a  furnace.  It  is  then  only  neces- 
sary to  grind  these  slices  in  order  to  obtain 
a  fine  fiour  therefrom.  In  Central  and 
South  America  hand  mills  are  in  use  for 
grinding  corn  for  corn  bread,  and  such 
apparatus  are  admirably  arranged  for  ob- 
taining from  the  slices  of  banaua  either 
banana  meal  or  an  impalpable  Sour  made 
through  simple  grinding  without  any  pass- 
age   through    a   sieve. — From  the  Scientific 

The  Vegetarian  Society  Mill  is  admirably 
adapted  to  reducing  dried  bananas  to  flour. 
Our  fourteen-page  pamphlet,  which  gives 
full  descriptions  of  the  mill  and  over  fifty 
recipes,  will  be  forwarded  on  application. 
171 


Digitized  hy  Google 


From   Mrs.   Emma  T.  Anderson's  Health 
Foods  and  Hoiv  to  Prepare  Them. 

PERFECT  BREAD. 
Perfect  bread  is  made  of  the  flour  of  any 
kind  of  grain  and  pure  water.  It  may  be 
rendered  as  light,  crisp  and  tender  as  desira- 
ble, by  kneading  or  otherwise  working 
atmospheric  air  into  the  dough.  Water  of 
any  temperature  may  be  employed  in  mak- 
ing the  dough.  Hot  or  boiling  water 
renders  the  bread  softer  and  damper ;  cool 
and  cold  water  renders  it  more  dry  and 
brittle.  But  for  the  best  possible  article 
the  water  cannot  be  too  cold.  Iced  water 
renders  the  bread  tender  and  most  delicious, 
if  the  kneading  is  well  managed.  Excellent 
bread  may  be  made  of  entire  or  whole  wheat 
flour,  ryemeal,  cornmeal,  oatmeal,  or  of 
various  admixtures  of  them,  to  please  the 
fancy  or  suit  the  taste. 

Hygienic  Bread. —  Mix  whole  wheat 
flour  with  pure  cold  water,  the  colder  the 
better,  to  a  stiff"  dough ;  knead  thoroughly 
ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  the  dough 
becomes  elastic  or  spongy  and  does  not 
require  the  bread-board  to  be  dusted  with 
flour  to  prevent  sticking  as  it  is  rolled  out. 
For  baking,  the  dough  may  be  rolled  out 
and  into  various  forms  to  suit  taste  or  con- 
venience. It  may  be  made  into  rolls, 
sqvares,  strips,  rings,  diamonds,  fingers, 
etc.,  the  object  in  all  cases  being  to  expose 
as  much  of  the  surface  as  possible  to  the 
heat  of  the  oven.  The  rolls  or  fingers  are 
made  3  or  4  inches  long  and  ^  of  an  inch 
thick;  squares  and  diamonds  are  i  to  2 
inches  in  diameter  (these  require  pricking), 
and  yi  to  i/i,  of  an  inch  thick ;  strips 
may  be  3  or  4  inches  long,  1  inch  wide  and 
\i  of  an  inch  thick;  rings  are  made  by 
cutting  out  a  circle  of  dough  y-2  to  Y^  of  an 
inch  in  thickness  ami  3  inches  in  diameter, 
then  cutting  out  a  ball  from  the  centre  of 
the  circle  i  inch  in  diameter.  The  rings 
172 


and  balls  present  a  beantifnl  appearance  on 
the  table,  and  no  shape  in  which  dough  can 
be  cut  is  in  better  condition  for  baking. 

For  baking,  a  quick  oven  is  required. 
The  bread  should  be  placed  immediately  on 
the  grates  of  the  oven,  never  on  tins;  it 
should  be  placed  in  the  hottest  part  of  the 
oven  at  first  and  moved  back  a  little  as 
soon  as  a  crust  is  formed.  Care  must  be 
taken  to  have  the  dough  thoroughly  baked, 
or  it  will  become  heavy  when  cold.  The 
time  required  for  baking  is  twenty  to  forty 
minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  bread 
and  the  heat  of  the  oven.  When  well  done 
the  bread  has  an  elastic  or  spongy  feeling. 
See  Cold  Water  Loaf. 

Cold  Water  Loaf  (or  Dr.  Ander- 
son's Ideal). — This  is  mixed  and  kneaded 
in  the  same  manner  as  the  Hygienic  bread, 
but  is  moulded  in  a  larger  form  and  baked 
in  a  moderate  heat,  to  ensure  its  being 
thoroughly  done  in  the  centre  without 
burning  the  outside.  It  is  usually  made  in 
loaves  2%  to  3^  inches  thick  and  of  any 
length  desired.  It  should  be  in  the  oven 
about  \%  hours.  If  the  crust  is  too  hard, 
cover  it  in  an  earthen  jar,  or  envelop  it 
closely  in  a  linen  cloth  until  cold,  when  it 
is  ready  for  the  table.  It  should  never  be 
cut  while  hot ;  it  is  best  two  days  old. 

Potato  Bread. — Wash  and  peel  the 
potatoes,  boil  them  in  as  Ijttle  water  as  will 
cover  them,  mash  them  through  a  coUauder 
with  the  water  in  which  they  were  boiled, 
heat  the  whole  to  a  boiling  point,  mix  in 
whole  wheat  flour  until  sufficiently  stiff  to 
knead,  cut  inio  small  cakes  and  bake  in  an 
oven.  The  flavor  usually  preferred  is  se- 
cured by  using  three  parts  of  flour  to  one  of 
potatoes. 

The  banana  used  as  a  poultice  allays 
inflammation.  Mr.  Younger  has  found 
the  remedy  helpfnl  in  erysipelas,  curing 
obstinate  cases  in  a  few  hours. 


December, 

d  by  Google 


f 


rden 


Fruits  are  more  easily  raised  in  Florida 
than  vegetables  and  are  quite  □umerous. 

The  present  consnmption  of  peanuts  in 
America  for  eating  purposes  alone  reaches 
4,000,000  bushels. — The  Southwest. 

Baked  apples  can  be  made  fit  food  for  the 
gods  if  'they  are  nicely  peeled  and  baked 
quickly  in  a  porcelain  dish. — The  Southwest. 

A  correspondent  in  Florida  says  he  would 
give  1 60  acres  of  land  for  the  keep  of  him- 
self and  wife,  to  a  colony,  and  would  co- 
operate in  the  effort.  Who  wilt  like  to 
join  in  forming  a  colony  there? 

Land  in  Southern  Florida  is  worth  from 
$1 .25  to  £4000  an  acre,  according  to  locality 
and  improvements.  You  can  get  good 
land  from  $10  to  $25  an  acre.  Clearing  is 
expensive,  costing  $100  an  acre.  It  is  a 
tropical  jungle. 

A  SAFK  PLACE   FOR  ORANGES. 

Th^  Journal  and  News  Job  Print,  of  Feb- 
ruary 20.  1899,  states  that  the  only  safe 
place  to  grow  oranges  is  in  Manatee  Co., 
Florida.  All  the  blizzards  of  past  years, 
including  the  one  of  February  13,  1899, 
have  not  injured  the  groves.  This  year's 
crop  will  reach  from  100,000  to  150,000 
boxes  of  oranges. 
CLIMATE  IN  SOUTHERN  FLORIDA. 

The  climate  here  is  delightful  and  the 
most  healthful  I  ever  lived  in,  and  I  have 
lived  in  Indiana,  Ohio,  Michigan,  Kentucky, 
Missouri,  Kansas,  and  several  other  parts 
of  Florida.  This  is  the  only  place  so 
exempt  from  cold  waves,  except  south  of 
Lake  Okechobe.  Orange  and  grape  fruit 
growing  is  the  most  profitable. — I.  M. 
1899 


THE  PALMETTO  CABBAGE. 

I  have  a  place  on  half  of  which  grows 
the  Palmetto  Cabbage:  .S".  Palmetto.  It 
furnishes  the  most  palatable  and  nutritious 
vegetable,  a  complete  food  like  the  banana, 
only  it  is  not  sweet  but  of  a  nutty  flavor.  A 
man  could  live  here  with  only  a  hatchet. — 
Florida  letter. 

COCOA  STEARIN. 

Cocoa  stearin  is  much  tuied  in  candle 
making,  and  the  oil  enters  largely  into  the 
marine  soap  which  can  be  used  for  toilet  or 
laundry  purposes  in  sea  water.  When  it  is 
considered  that  1000  nuts  will  make  500 
pounds  of  copra,  which  will  yield  twenty- 
five  gallons  of  oil,  one  of  the  most  com- 
mercial possibilities  of  our  new  Philippine 
possessions  becomes  evident. — Tke  Sun.  It 
may  be  one  of  the  results  of  the  Philippine 
acquisitions  that  Ko-nut,  one  of  the  best 
products  of  the  cocoanut,  will  become 
cheaper  than  animal  fat. 

THE  BANANA  INDUSTRY. 

Bananas  can  be  dried  and  converted  into 
a  flour,  called  "bananine,"  which  may 
prove  to  be  the  basis  of  a  very  valuable 
industry.  France,  understanding  the  ad- 
vantages it  will  be  possible  to  derive  from 
the  banana  plant,  has  sent  a  commission  to 
the  United  States  and  Central  America  for 
the  purpose  of  studying  the  banana  industry 
upon  the  spot,  and  it  has  also  been  sug- 
gested by  M.  Charles  Patio,  of  Belgium, 
who  has  investigated  the  subject,  that  the 
banana  will  prove  the  subject  of  important 
agricultural  operations  in  the  Congo,  and  is 
destined  to  produce  cheap  food  for  the 
working    classes    in    Belgium.  —  Sdenitfic 


73 


d  by  Google 


THE  CUMBERLAND  PLATEAU. 

A  reliable  correspondent,  not  personally 
interested  in  the  lands  advertised  for  sale  at 
$3  per  acre,  has  kindly  replied  to  our 
inquiries  in  regard  to  the  character  of  that 
land.  The  letter  is  dated  Sewanee,  Tenn., 
November  6,  1S99,  and  is  as  follows: 

"Dear  Dr.  Clubb: — In  replying  to  your 
letter  of  inquiry  as  to  the  prodnctiveness  of 
the  lands  lying  between  Sewanee  and  Mt. 
Eagle,  I  will  state  as  follows :  The  soil  is 
thin,  but  capable  of  being  made  productive 
of  crops  such  as  cabbage,  corn,  potatoes, 
etc.  Coal  abounds  all  over  the  Cumberland 
Platean.  It  is  soft  coal  and  sells  for  seven 
cents  a  bushel,  or  about  $2  a  ton.  There 
are  snlphnr  and  kylibeate  springs  to  be 
found  throughout  this  section,  as  well  as 
nnmileralized  springs.  Peaches,  apples, 
blackberries,  blnebenies  and  strawberries 
do  well,  especially  apples ;  the  "shell  bark" 
hickory  nut  grows  wild  and  in  great 
quantity,  and  could  be,  I  have  no  doubt, 
made  a  marketable  product.  Chestnuts  are 
plentiful  and  walnuts  also.  Oaks,  pines, 
gums,  maples  and  hickories  are  among  the 
forrest  trees.  I  refer  you  to  Mr,  GifFord 
Pinchot,  of  Washington,  D.  C,  for  full 
particulars. — Eva  C.  Lovell." 

FLORIDA  FOR  COLONIZING. 

A  correspondent  writing  from  Florida, 
says:  "I  am  Inclined  to  favor  a  vegetable 
diet  and  would  willingly  adopt  it  were  I  in 
a  community  willing  to  live  thus.  I  am 
satisfied  it  is  much  cheaper  and  healthful 
especially  in  a  warm  climate  like  this.  The 
legumes  furnish  us  with  much  more  nutri- 
tion, quite  as  palatable  and  at  one-third  the 
cost.  I  should  like  a  co-operative  colony 
on  that  plan.  We  have  a  community  of 
Seventh  Day  Adventists  here  and  they  are 
all  Vegetarians,  but  are  strictly  sectarian. 
Their  religion  consists  in  certain  obser- 
vances and  they  are  not  very  susceptible  of 

'74 


new  thought."  There  is  a  general  desire 
for  Vegetarian  ansectarian  colonies.  Bttt 
great  diversity  of  opinion  exists  as  to 
location.  Tennessee  oflFers  many  induce- 
ments in  cheap  land  and  labor,  railroad 
facilities,  healthy  climate,  etc.  Yet  our 
Florida  friends  claim  Florida  as  far  prefera- 
ble, being  ireer  from  frost,  etc.  Our  chief 
objection  to  Florida  is  the  heavy  cost  of 
clearing  the  land  there,  owing  to  its  im- 
mense jnngle  growth. 

Our  correspondent  says :  "This  is  not   a 

good  vegetable  country  yet.     The  business, 

however,  is  very  profitable.     I   can  show 

cases  where  {1000  per  acre  have  been  made 

from  a  single  crop,  covering  say  five  months, 

then  having  seven  months  to  raise  crops  for 

home  consumption .     Our  winter  vegetables 

bringing    fancy    prices    in    the    northern 

market  is  where  the  profit  is  made." 

THE  FRUIT  GARDEN. 

"A  heavenly  paradise  is  that  place. 

Wherein  all  pleasant  fruits  do  grow." 

J.  J.  Thomas  viewed  the  matter  in  the 
same  tight.  "Every  addition  to  the  attrac- 
tions of  home  has  a  salntar>'  bearing  on  a 
rising  family  of  children.  The  difference 
between  a  dwelling  with  well -pi  anted 
grounds,  well  fnmished  with  every  rural 
enjoyment  and  another  where  scarcely  a 
single  tree  softens  the  bleakness  and  deso- 
lation, may  to  a  young  man  just  approach- 
ing active  life  prove  the  turning  influence 
between  a  life  of  virtue  and  refinement  on 
the  one  hand,  and  one  of  dissipation  and 
ruin,  from  the  effects  of  a  repulsive  home, 
on  the  other.  Nor  can  any  man,  even  in 
the  noon  or  approaching  evening  of  life, 
scarcely  fail  to  enjoy  a  higher  happiness 
from  at  least  an  occasional  intercourse 
with  the  blossoming  and  fruit  loaded  trees 
which  bis  own  bands  have  planted  and 
pruned  there  in  the  noise  of  the  crowd  and 
tumult  of  the  busy  world." — Exchange. 
December. 


Zhe  Hmerfcan  pomological  Societi?. 

...J3s  0eoTge  W.  Smitb... 


The  Semi-Centennial  gatheritig  in  Phila- 
delphia, on  September  7  and  8,  of  the 
American  Pomological  Society,  gives  oc- 
casion for  this  sketch  of  that  Society  and 
its  work. 

As  early  as  1847-8,  several  gatherings  of 
enterprising  and  intelligent  pomologists 
were  almost  simultaneously  held  in  Colam- 
bus,  Ohio,  New  York  City  and  Syracnse; 
the  two  latter  resulting  in  the  formation  of 
societies,  and  the  two  finally  joining  in  a 
convention  at  Castle  Garden,  New  Yort,  in 
October,  1849,  and  uniting  under  the  title 
of  the  American  Pomological  Congress, 
afterwards  changed  to  the  present  title  of 
the  American  Pomological  Society. 

In  1845,  the  noble  volume  of  Andrew  J. 
Downing  appeared,  entitled  The  Fruils  and 
Fruil  Trees  of  America,  which  has  since 
passed  through  many  editions  and  revisions 
by  his  brother,  the  late  Charles  Downing, 
and  which  contains  the  names  and'  synon- 
yms of  over  10,000  varieties  of  fruits,  with 
careful  cultural  directions.  This  book,  on 
which  an  immense  amount  of  labor  and  re- 
search was  bestowed,  must  have  had  an 
appreciable  effect  in  stimulating  the  desire 
among  fruit  cultarists  for  a  permanent 
American  organization  for  the  promotion  of 
the  science  of  pomology — a  fact  that  may 
safely  be  inferred  from  the  close  proximity 
of  the  dates  above  mentioned.  Despite  all 
the  assaults  made  by  critics  upon  Downing's 
variform  and  unscienti&c  description  of 
fruits,  his  work  stands  to-day  as  the  Bible 
of  American  pomology — a  monument  to 
the  memory  of  the  noble  man  whose  life 
went  out  in  the  effort  to  rescue  frantic  souls 
from  a  burning  Hudson  River  steamer. 

Hon.  Marshall  P.  Wilder,  of  Massachu- 
setts, was  happily  chosen  as  the  first  pres- 


ident of  the  society,  an  office  which  he  ably 
filled  until  his  decease,  in  1886.  Being  a 
man  of  wealth,  refinement  and  great  love 
for  horticulture,  he  gave  substantial  assist- 
ance to  the  society  in  its  infant  years,  and 
at  his  death  bequeathed  the  sum  of  $5,000 
to  it.  This  fund  is  still  held  and  invested, 
the  interest  of  $1,000  of  it  being  used  to 
provide  Wilder  medals  for  meritorious  new 
or  rare  firuits  exhibited  at  the  sessions  held 
biennially  in  the  different  cities.  The  fol- 
lowing sentiments  extracted  from  the  writ- 
ings of  President  Wilder,  portray  the 
fervency  of  his  love  for  the  golden  friiits,  as 
well  as  the  excellence  of  his  own  character : 

"Fruits  are  the  overflow  of  nature's 
bounty — gems  from  the  skies  dropped  down 
to  beautify  the  earth,  charm  the  sight, 
gratify  the  taste  and  minister  to  the  enjoy- 
ment of  life ;  and  the  more  we  realize  this, 
the  more  shall  we  appreciate  the  Divine 
goodness  to  us,  and  the  duty  of  providing 
them  to  others." 

How  far  the  members  of  the  Society  feel 
it  encumbent  upon  them  to  fulfill  the  duty 
mentioned  by  President  Wilder,  in  this 
world  of  materialism  and  mercenary 
motives,  no  one  can  accurately  tell ;  but  it 
would  probably  be  hard  to  find  a  company 
of  men  associated  in  the  work  of  promoting 
the  interests  of  a  single  article  of  commerce, 
that  exhibit  more  unselfish  aims  or  a  more 
general  desire  to  render  service  to  their 
fellow-men.  There  are  few  secular  occupa- 
tions more  ennobling  and  inspiring  than 
that  of  fruit  culture.  The  biennial  gath- 
erings of  the  American  Pomological  Society 
are  characterized  by  gentlemanly  conduct 
aud  hearty  good  feeling.  While  spirited 
discussions  often  occurr,  disrespect  and 
acrimony  are  absent.     The  conventions  are 


d  by  Google 


always  opened  witH  prayer  to  the  All-wise 
God ;  and,  despite  the  marked  tendency  of 
of  the  present  times,  irreverance  and  slurs 
at  the  Christian  religion  are  still  unknown 
m  the  Society's  proceedings.  The  veriest 
tyro  in  amateur  pomology  meets  beside  the 
commercial  fruit  grower  who  cultivates 
perhaps  hundreds  of  acres  of  glorious  fruit, 
or  beside  the  man  of  science  from  the  Ex- 
periment Station,  Who  tries  the  wits  of  the 
stenographer  to  furnish  a  verbatim  report 
of  his  utterances.  At  the  Philadelphia 
meeting,  every  fruit- growing  state  in  the 
Union  was  represented  by  delegates.  Many 
excellent  addresses,  both  scientific  and 
instructive,  were  crowded  into  the  two 
days'  session,  covering  the  wide  range  of 
topics  from  "The  Introduction  of  the 
Blastophaga  and  the  Caprification  of  the 
Smyrna  Fig"  in  Southern  California,  to  the 
cultivation  of  the  modest  blueberry  on  the 
hillsides  of  Maine.  All  fruits  grown  in  the 
United  Siates,  including  the  citms  and 
other  sub-tropical  species,  have  their  full 
share  of  consideration.  About  150  members 
were  present  at  Horticultural  Hall,  the 
beautiful  home  of  the  Pennsylvania  Horti- 
cultural Society.  Over  1500  plates  of  fruits 
and  nuts  were  exhibited.  Eight  Wilder 
medals  were  awarded,  the  first  one  being 
received  by  the  New  Jersey  State  Horti- 
cultural Society  for  a  collective  exhibition 
of  696  plates,  and  bronze  medals  were  also 
awarded  in  three  cases. 

The  officers  elected  for  the  ensuing  bi- 
ennial period  are :  President,  C.  L.  Watrous, 
Des  Moine,  la.;  First  Vice  President, 
Thomas  Meehan,  Germantowu,  Pa,;  Secre- 
tary, W.A.Taylor,  Washington,  D.  C; 
Treasurer,  L.  R.  Taft,  Agricultural  College, 
Michigan,  and  one  vice  president  for  each 
fruit-growing  state. 

At  the  close  of  the  first  session,  the 
members    and    their   friends   were   photo- 


graphed by  Philipi  in  a  group  in  front  of 
the  hall ;  and  the  photograph  has  been 
reproduced  for  these  pages  (see  page  161). 
Standing  in  the  foreground,  in  the  middle 
of  the  picture,  are  President  Watrous  and 
Secretary  Taylor.  Immediately  to  their 
right  are  ex-Presideut  P.  J.  Berckmans.  of 
Georgia,  and  Dr.  F.  M.  Hexamer,  of  New 
York ;  and  immediately  to  the  left  of  the 
former  are  the  venerable  figures  of  S.  B, 
Parsons,  of  Long  Island,  and  Robert  Man- 
ning, of  Massachusetts,  two  members  who 
attended  the  first  gathering  fifty  years  ago. 
Near  them  may  be  seen  Thomas  Meehao, 
William  H.  Barnes,  Secretary  of  the  Kansas 
State  Horticultural  Society,  and  L.  A. 
Goodman,  Secretary  of  the  Missouri  State 
Horticultural  Society ;  while  farther  back 
may  be  seen  the  familiar  feces  of  K.  N. 
Keltogg,  of  Michigan ;  J.  H.  Hale,  of  Con- 
necticut, the  noted  peach  grower;  Prof.  H, 
E.  Van  Deman,  of  Virginia,  ex-United 
States  Poraologist ;  William  C.  Barry,  of 
Rochester,  and  many  other  leaders  in  the 
world  of  pomology,  of  whom  space  prevents 
mention.  The  readers  of  Food,  Home  and 
Garden  will  perhaps  recognize,  in  the 
little  group  seated  on  the  front  bench,  the 
worthy  editor  of  this  paper,  with  his  wife 
and  their  daughter.  Miss  Naomi  Ctubb, 
together  with  the  writer  of  these  lines — 
four  persons  who,  from  religious  motives, 
advocate  the  use  of  the  healthful  and 
humane  Edenic  diet,  prescribed  by  God  in 
the  first  chapter  of  Genesis,  when  man  was 
in  his  pristine  purity,  and  who  are  therefore 
able  to  share  the  exultation  of  Goldsmith 
in  his  immortal  lines: 
' '  No  flocks  that  range  the  valley  free, ' '  etc. 
Eleven  cities  sent  invitations  for  the 
gathering  of  the  Pomological  Society  in 
1901,  but  Buffalo  will  probably  be  selected, 
and  the  meeting  held  there  during  the 
Pan-American  Exposition. 


d  by  Google 


db,  Google 


Zbc  College  of  ©ccult  jforces. 

SUCCksS  is  simply  a  matter  of  finding  your  true  life-work,  and  di- 
recting your  forces  rightly.  Every  child's  true  place  and  work 
may  be  known  from  the  moment  of  birth  with  absolute  certainty. 
Adults  who  have  failed  in  every  attempt,  may  learn  tlie  real  reason  and 
remove  the  cau^e '  I  point  out  for  adults  or  children  the  true  work  for 
each  one,  the  time  and  place  to  select,  when  and  who  to  choose  in  mar- 
riage.    No  life  need  be  a  failure 

An  outline  of  your  whole  lif^  will  be  sent  for  ONE  DOLLAR. 
Full  delineation  with  details,  FIVE  DOLLARS.  I  require  only  the 
date  of  birth,  exact  to  lAe  hour  when  known,  with   photograph. 

Seven  lessons  in  OCCULT  SCIENCE  sent  by  mail.  Send  two- 
cent  stamp  for  mj' circulars. 

\VU.UAM  CANBY  FBRRIS,  Principal, 

iijo  North  Kedzie  Avenue,  Chicago,  III. 


FOOD 
Home  and 
Garden 

FOR  1949. 

VOL.  I,    CLOTH,   socenti. 

A  few  Eopiea  only  IcfL 


TO  READGRS  OP  THE  BOOK 

Ti»Jimr?nteiiltr««» 
EROTIEIIIOOD  OF  FAITHISTS 

Open  to  nil  wtw  vlll  comply  wllh  tha 
Riovcmnient  and  Laws"  {senl  fM.) 


File  for  Food,  Home  &  Qarda 

WR  h»T<  ID  enMntnlbntts  Sic  for  km 
<de    the    Dumbcn  of  Pood.   Horn  . 

■iu  logclbci.    Send  15,  oiiefenl    alampiii 

Koulkrod  St..  StBllon  V.  I'h<i>ule1pbU. 


VACCINATION. 

Hn  attvocate  of  Heaitb.   liutu 
and  liberty. 

yol.  I.     Terra  Haule,  fnd. , 

February,  iSgS,  No.  I. 

Uiued  moathly.       By  Frank  D.  BI«. 


Jouraal  of  Hygeo  Therapy 


J  Monthly,  7J  cU.  a  year.  Sinfile  No.  icc 
AdTocatei  vesdariinlsm,  ADtj-i-acvinatiai 
Dd  Ihe  Hygleoe  Pmclice  In  nierepenlici.   i 

The   Esoteric, 


subscribe  for 
The  M°i*ning  Stap 

A   Monthly  Journal  of  Mystical 
id  Philosophical  Research. 

le  exponent  of  Hermetic  Science  giv- 
inlngaof  tlie  dgcirines  af 
■nUy.  Uioaraf  Christ  jHui 

domoftheOccldeDt.  IhcM/ateHcs  of  Free 

Sample  copy  free. 
ry  CENTS  PER  ANNUM 

Peter  Davidson,     LoudsviUe,  Ga. 


timitive 


NOTICE.  _^ 


SX 


iplrlnE  U 

Bud  hTah 


,  aecieta  of  Ihe  Power  of  the     Christ,   of  ik 

'  knowledge,   and  of  hia  uudeislnndinji.     SuIf- 

'  KTiptlon,  ti.oDper  year.    Sample  copy    ]iil 

•  Rnoleric  Pnbllahing    Company,      AppltKiu 


'-•URB   YOURSKI.F  AT  HOME. 

■"*  ona  employed.     TeVmi  »iry  : 

looklel     br     TK3TIU0HIALS.      TBRl 

nailed  free.    Address  :  DR.  P.  DAVIDSON, 


t,  Whit 


1.,  G*. 


OUR  FELLOW  CREATURES. 

line  devoted   to  ibe  pn> 
B  helptees.    Official  orsan 

Supple- 


QUISISANA  .  .  . 

Nature-Cure  Sanilarinm, 

ASHVII.I.E,  N.  C,    -    T67  French  Bn»d  Aif 

NOMEDKINBt        NO  OPBIt  TIONS! 

Massage  Baths ; ! 


AddreJa   f"-'"-"' 
Chlcaec  I 


rchlld      AlU 


Vegetarian  Census. 

Vegetarians  and  friends  are 
requested  to  aid  in  obtaininfri 
correct  census  of  VetretarianS 
thronehout  the  world.  Send 
i "■pu~biishing~Co~  for  blanks  to  V.  S.  A.,  iw] 
'm '''■^'r '"S^"?!    FoulkrodSt.,  Frankford,  Phila. 


igBstMehandaHOiiptloiimaT  ' 

n  our  optnlon  ttM  vbeetaar  an  1 

bablynMentabla.   Commnnlcs-  1 

fldeniU.  Handbook  on  Patsnta  j 

[  ■fTflner  for  aacnnnapat^nts-  , 

ihroncb  Mann  A  CoTrscelTe 

*    »  charge,  tn  tbe 


book  u  Ihe  fifth  Gospel    or  wlielher  the 
em  of  Evolution  propnunded  by  Dniwin 

I  the  l>oolr  Ihrong'h  and  fouiid  much  to 


Scientific  Jlnicricatt.  i 

"nIw  fork : 

mnon,  D.  C       I 


irUH°NT&'«'=^''.... 

BnaA  OtBoa,  BB  F  St..  Waahmnoi 


i  Samples™.; 


may  eiial  together 


Indianapolis.  Isdtan*. 


i    DIAMOND  BUTTER  OIL. 

THIS  OIL  is  a  perfectly  parified  product  of  the  beautiful  cotton  plant,  being  extracted  from  th«  bulled 
|e«ds  after  they  have  been  taken  from  the  cotton  by  which  they  are  surrounded  in  the  ball.  It  is  free  from 
ill  those  disease  germs  which  infest  animal  lats  and  is  equal  iu  shortening  qualities  to  nearly  double  its 
weight  in  lard  or  dairy  butter,  than  which  it  is  much  cheaper.  It  is  easily  digested  and  produces  no  un- 
pleasant effects. 

While  it  is  as  good  as  Olive  Oil  for  table  use  for  salads,  it  is  excellent  for  coolctng  Potatoes,  Mashed 
and  Browned,  French  Pried,  Saratoga  Chips,  Croquettes,  Boiled  or  Baked  ;  Sweet  Potatoes,  Stewed  and 
Scalloped  Tomatoes.  Cabbage,  both  cooked  and  for  Cold  Slaw  ;  Green  Corn,  String  Beans,  Lima  Beans. 
Parsnips,  boiled  or  fried  ;  Onions,  Egg  Plant,  Oyster  Plant,  Macaroni,  Cauliflower,  creamed,  and  other 
vegetable  preparations.  It  is  also  excellent  for  Bread  of  various  kinds,  Corn  Bread  and  Pone,  Biscuits, 
Rolls,  Muffins,  Waffles,  Sally  Lunn,  Pastry  for  Tarts  and  Pies,  Fried  IceCream,  Puddings,  Pudding  Sauce, 
Cakes.  Doughnuts  and  every  kind  of  cookery  wherein  shortening  is  required. 

We  could  li'ive  testimonials  from  those  who  have  it  in  use,  but  prefer  to  give  the  opinions  of  Scientific 
men  an  to  \te  pure  and  healthful  character. 

DR.  ALLK-V  McLBAN  HAMILTON.  «*?  ""J*'  "''£l™>'",^J.''";'?'l'»"',T*«««'>le  ""■  ••>'•*  <■=•- 

__^       I  vthll  -*'r  M^r  *c«le  atomBCM  be»r  without  lojurr/' 

oneof  the  mom  henlthful  unicttiolditl  ui»l  we'on  paimib^y  T-ROF.  JK3SH  P.  BATTKR3HAt,L,  Ph.  D.,  F.  C.  3.. 
hmtobe  colionsced  Dfl.      It  it  ooe  of  the bexl  <■(■  ind  li  Cliemlit  C.  S.  Laboratory.  New  York,  un In  hi*  feceal 

much  more  hnlttaful  than  lard."  work,  "I'ood  AdoUentlon  &  I'ta  DdecXoo'" ;  "As  ■  maUer  of 


Orders  should  be  sent  only  for  the  sizes  indicated  below : 

— PRICSS.- 
iMlb.  canaperKcana  $7.70  for  60  Iha.  jtb.  canperiieana  ._  ...        |;.»    foreolba. 

lolb.       ■■    ■■     6     ••  .-  ...  7.00"  6o1ba.  »lb.  "      "     4    '■  iy,    •■   go  IM. 

SO  lb.       •■    "      I     "  ._  .M  S.75"   joibi.  SO  lb.   "      "     a    "  ...  ...         10.00    ■'  iDDlba. 

Will  send  br  eipreaa  from  oar  oMce  aumples  lb  can  ou  receipt  of  6;  ceota,  the  TCOdver  lo  pay  eipreawge.  The  eheaped  way  lo  ob- 
tain UieButleiOIL  <■  lo  order*  box  ofaay  morulb.  can*,  or  ■  ilnKle  so  lb.  cat.  aent  by  fait  rreignt.  u  the  eapeiue  of  iniiaporuillap  *i  mil 
w  price  la  very  much  leaa  in  thia  way.  The  caah  nait  acconipaiiy  the  order  ualen  we  have  an  accoaot  with  Ihepurctaaier.  Addtew 
V.  S.  A.,  1DI3  Poiilkrod  Slnet,  StatlOD  P,  Philadelphia. 

College  of  psychical  Sciences.     Si^EIf |$p\*;er?-"23 

TTHE  only  one  in  the  world  for  the  unfoldment  of  all  Spiritual  Pow-  Siu''S;>c"i'i'ke'''/E^'."°*  ^c™  «%!Slf 
^•'  ers,  Psychometry,  Clairvoyance.  Inspiration,  Healing,  the  Science  quickly  added.  Your  Tafuabie  pcriofhcaia 
of  Harmonics  Applied  to  the  Soul  of  Music  and  Physical  Expression  a/^i.  "p'i^',*'?B.°an'd  under 'ia"ii,''ov'«tj 
and  Culture,  and  Illumination.  For  terms,  circulars,  percentage  of  ina.  ic.  per  inch.  Pu»tage  j  et»,  per  fi'ie  eai™. 
psychical  power,  (tend  stamped  addressed  envelope  to  J.  C.  F,  krt'"*leS Js «nu^r aTie  (or food'hokb 
GRUMBINE,    author    and  lecturer.  Syracuse,  New  York.  aGABoaw.   s.  c.  w»ti».  ciea.fi nd.  fm.  ■<-». 

^    ,„,„    ,^  ^'^^':^\,„     ■    «  -      THE-PBACEMAKBR 

How  to  Unfold  and  Kealize  Divtnatton  and  Iliuminalton.     ^o  cis.  __  ^ 

.^1    -  ,       »T  -^  ,,,,..  ....  AND  COURT  OP  AKBITRATION, 

"Clairvoyance:  Its  Nature  and  Law  of  Unfoldment."      Aworkot  -  ,  . 

illumination.     Teaches  how  to  pierce  the  veil  of  sense,   to  see  spirits  urgan  01  tne 

andunfoldadepUhip.     Cloth  price,  $3.50,  UNIVERSAL  PEACE  UNION. 

Send  IS  cents  for  sample  copy  of.  or  (1  for  a  year's  subscription  to  Monthly.     -    $1.00  a  year. 

"Immortality,"  the  new  and  brilliant  Quartetly   Psychical  Magsziiie,  /,-)r-  ARCR  '^T     P^TII  AD^ ^ 

AddressJ.  C:F.  GRUMBINE,  Syracus^N.Y.  ,;f.  ^^OS  ^K^H  •^/■.  fHlLAU  A. 

TheAmerUan  Health  Propaganda 

...Wegetarfan  Socfetie  flMn...       »KiS"j.YES„!ss„';is,,"?s 


litnlT 
on  r.ood  Health.    SKNU 


Kjiple, 


^=>    fit  WITH  THIS    MILL  and  the  instmcttens 

^^■^^H  given,  any  one  can  prodnce,at  nomiDal  cost, 

^^^^^^L  these  varieties  of  flour : 

^B^^Hl  WHOLE  WHEATORAIIAM,  WHOLE  WHEAT,  OLUTIN. 

*J^HI  I  RYB,  RICE.  BARLB  Y,  PBAS,  BEANS.  BUCKWHEAT.  !*!'  ""("a^I  "^m'  "'"/""'-[.^  J'^''  l^  '" 

^^Hjl  I  LENTIL.  UALT,  TAPIOCA.  (/nXanfaiicou).  Send  So  ™ia  for  memh«?hSp  aTdiet  b^t  3 

F   m  ^^Also   Penola,    Bran  Tea,  Cereal  Coffee  and  "'^^w'Sn'^ ester  ave  Chicago  in 

over  thirty  other  articles,  including  various '■ — ^ 

kinds  of  NUT  BUTTER,  NUT  CHEESE,  etc.  WANTED,  iJ^^J^-^c^:"™,',;  1.°„'3  ,',' 

Ottr  fiflJ  '"^if"  "I  «'>■■  t",  a  special  rdilien  of  FOOD.  HOME  AND  GARDEN  and  work    losether  in  a  oermaiiei.t"  hos 

Any  family  in  till  rilyer  cnntryean  easily  aild  la  i-tin^Bwit  by  mthi^xanv  of  ThVat^  aapporl.    Seiid  for  Th  k    a'lth  d""*!.''! 

O'licf's  for  luighbotkood saUl.    This  numhrr  s'tt  COpC  on  retaf  I  o/a  f«atal  card  an-  inonl hi y  paper,  ij  eta.  a  year,  'ample  coi 

ilraud lo  J023  fbnlMrDd  street,  Siaiion  F..  /*i7o.rRCC  ff„       ag,,  olfve  St.,  St.   Lonw.  Mo.        i 


Darcnnalc    Jt   AVanic  u^rnns-  home  journal.  ramton    health    cldb. 

— .     cb«r«cler   both  M  ■  Mleraiy  Bud  ■rtl«1c  pro-    berihip  lK»k  of  the  RaHlon    Hollh    CJ-b 

1VANTED.-M«  »d  wift,  .!«,  .  .W.»«  """KrZi'  Z*""  a"'  '^fZ  •?"  "'?'»  ■""="  °P™  "P  -  ™«  fi'l-J  '«  """-K" 
"  woman.  Scold,  prsfenwl,  ill  lhr«  for  "inbined.  The  r«d«B  of  UH«  JOMroal.  If  dlKipllne  for  Ihe  promolion  of  hnltl.  «-d 
geoernl  houitiroik,  who  will  c«r«  more  for   they  did  oot  take  the  newapaperi,    might    longeTity     Price  $i  oo     We  will  uy    ^ore 

™™ ■„i'rt'"S».io.!  a  £?.  -"If""-* -^ •»  «•""  i..f.wi..j  .b„., „  ,i„ „!.,.  ..p,,^ B,  _„ 

«nJ  rf  fer™«.  lo  of  bMUty  .od  mdiuitniniL  teria   of    ■■gltnte."    Tb«     RaMonJu*    mn 


TeseUrlue  «■■    be   Kcomraodated       By  Walter  L.  Sinlon,  ; 


with  board  and  room*                         Ruafa  ttteet.    Thli  pom  laailrong  pin  for  t»l*a  eoavlctioiu  la   RaMonias  teackinva. 

humaoity.  comrauBlim  and  brotherhood  and  wHAT  THE  YODNO  NBED  TO  KNCnr. 

pLEASANT  fMOX  »«ll  ^'•^'■'j"  ''?,"  ^'*"    ""^  ""'  "Teapot  Phfloaophy"  ilraplr   Incl-  yj,,,  j,  ,  p,niph!el  by  E.  C  Walker  IbMhI- 

Pra'Sli"3l^li;delSila.         '              '  3S^    rM'^''J™r"?,h^'h':^  \  wedding  P™"'.  •  ed  to  ihow  how    yotmg  perfOB.  aboahl  te 


I   pblloaophlcal  eaaay  ■ 


inghtthcduracterofaci  and  bow  relaUoa 


VEGETARIANS.  __  .   '  —   - 

D  can  rent  ■  pICMant  fnmiiihed  P^P"*^'  ino«  ptire,  healturai  and   nUonal  didikc 

wlihotil  breakfaal    in    a  houae  GLIUPSBS  OP   ETERNITY.  anch knowledge  would    an donbtedtr  pierce 

eab  and  fowl  and  tobacco  are  Thu  |,  ,  pamphlet  by  Newton  M.  Mann  much  of  theerlloow  Incident  to  eariy  We 

d°o™v«T'r«aanB"le™lerm!^  <■■  "Ukh  Ihe  queMlons  of  time  and  eternity  and  were   It     generally   underwood   woald 

'enaugoSlreet,  Phila,                is  are  dlacuHcd  from  tnth  a  Uteid  and  apirll-  ealabllah  a  mutual  conEdence  between  yoang 

^,^^.^_^^^^^^^.^^^^  nal  ilaudpoint     The  authoc  contend*  that  people  thai  would  tend   to   a   much    mote 

time  la  and  muateverbe  coatalned  la  eter-  delightful  ezperleiKe    than   ta    attained    ia 


NFW      ROOKS  nilyandUnolontalde  orapartlromlt.    The    (gnorance  of  each  othera- 

I  1  A-  »  T        LJ\^\^  it.^>  chief  eBfcci  of  the  ar^ment  Uto  aboilab -'■ 


neceuHy  for  hurry  there  being  no  cod   c. 
"MKATLESS  DISHES."  lime  for  ererythlng  (o  be  accompllahed.  5  CU. 

a   Chicago  Cook  Book  (old    at  10    H.  S.  Mann,  Omaha.  N 


THE  DKARMA. 


The  Dhanna  or  Religion  of  EDlfghtcniBeBt, 

'  an  expoalllon  of  Buddhiam    by    Paal  Cana. 

"Addi^  V   s"  ""■"""•""■"■- ""^  Third  Edition  enlarged.    Thia  b    iHnei]  by 

A"To»PoulkT^"8t.""sur"F    PhiUdelpbla-  "THE  STORY  OF  THE  PHILIPPINES"  the  Open    Court  Publlahing   Co..    Chicngo. 

»  1.  !  .f-fl,  ^^,?Ll^  t^;  u.«-l.,,„  In  .  """"  Halate.d>.  Story  of  the  Philippine.,  and  i*  an  admirable  compendlnm  of  Budd- 

It  i«  a  uaeful  addition  to  the  literature  on  f„ni  Out  Poaaeaalona  t-ubllahlUK   Co.,  Ch  .    ^iu  r.oi.    ...h    ,^^1^      11   1.  i_    .    . 

VegeUrlan  Cookery.  cago.  price.  J1.50.    It  i.  without  «cepliin  the  ^^^,  ""^    ^"      «  lai^a.ion  o 

WHY  I  AM  A  VEGETARIAN.  Phlllppiaea  and  Sandwich  Ulanda  which  ha»  four  noble  Trulha:  the  Tea  CommandmenH- 

I.r=3«a    L.     Duaenberry.     Chicago,     ha.  If^ll^  Ij,,^^"    '°^^   WrdS'°,1,'S',,i'u  "«  "«"  J*""   •"  ""  ^"^ "    "">  «^ 

bronght    out  a  new  edition    of  J.  Howard  edgSl- very  rich' and  altractive  ;  the  ptlBl'  e.planalory     of    Ihe      terms:     "  Dh.rma - 

price  JSCta.    Thla  li  the  7lh  thou-and  of  Ihii  u^f'^Mu^g^'H^'^^i^'"^"  °flowi„7'"^^^  to  fo™  an  accnrale  Ideaof  BuddhUt  "^"L- 

original  and  forcible  argument  for  Vegeta-  grawfulatyle  luch  as  come  by  long  practice  Ing.— asela. 

rianpraclicc.  m  ajo^aUrt^^e^bMk^aehlrfy  rtw^tMull  ..CREDIBILITY    OF    TBS  CHRISTtAIt 

THE  LOGIC  OP  VEGETARIANISM.  hla  Journey  toihe  Philfpplnea  and  back  reads  RELIGION 

WebayereceltedtcopyofHenry  D.  Salt's  like  a  romance  and  is  very  loterHtlng.     The  q,  Ihoughta  on  Modem  Rationalism"    by 

"Logic  of  Vegetarianism,"  an  elegant  com-  ^^i^f^yw^lS'JSJ- ^7,^^"^a^f^  Samuel  Smllb,  M.  D.    Thla  U  no.  S"  ot  the 

pIlatioQofVegeUrian  argument,  theoretical  „„a  for  thi.  book,    as  it  contains  a  Irue  "Anil    Infidel    Library."    B.     L.  Hartiaga, 

and  practical.      II    is  one  of  Ihe  VegeUrlsn  hlslory  of  Ihe  Ments  which    have  done  w  joatoB    Maaa.    It  is  an   able  defense   ofibe 

Jubilee  Library  »erte.,pobllahed  by  the  Ideal  ^SmirtVti^Vl^^t''              "^"""^  ^^  ratloualiam   of  the  Bible    and  of   Mirmde.. 

Publishlng  Union,    so  cenla.     The  book  is  '  ^n,,.  -„-i,  ,  i>oot  abanld  be  needed  In  thi! 

«.de«.-tert.lning   and    inatruCive  by   dl-  .ro^,'!i'"^f,]^^'lf';;,^°°''f  J„^  .  ,  t^h  «ntnry  of  Chrtsllanity    «em.   alm«. 

cuasions.  ...1??^^,         k^      T^I     .       1^  Incredible,  aadyeltheteodency  of  the  tin,= 

THKTEMPLE  m^.r^^     priahLbT,^^  to  mateH.llam  owinglo  the  gro«.  c^i^ 

The  fir*  number  of  "The  Tetnple"  Is  to  co    Ba.^C^k   Mil    .^"^Prl*    l^lt  "^  '»'"'■  "^  <™   ""=   "'*'  «"""""«^ 

hand.    It  is  to  be  publi«,*J  QU.rt«ly.l  so  ^^^1' ^1.  u.  Wk  -b^h    ^^n  """'"  "  -  "''d*""  "•"  "«  Cbri"'"  "" 

cenlsayearltrefen  to  Ihe  bodily  Temple  „„„l.,^*,„d„„„  .^e  u«  of  nnUa.  food.  >•  »"  X" ~"«d-    'S'^' 

undlteat.  of  Physical  Health,  or  the  Art  of  „^  ,„„„,  ,„,„„.   b.„Mfu„y  Illustrated  ^-ONCENTRATION    &    INSPII 

Living.     Edited  by  Rev.  T.Bmon-.    Lyon  „d  „i,  pri„,rf  with  a  colored  frontispiece  This  Is  a  book  of  90  pp. 

Chicago      K;'™;-^'  ""dlator  b.twe«,  ^^                   chea.nut  burr  expo. lug  to  view  devol^i  to  the  develop, 


lul   life    fhim  tl 


ofbeauty.     It  <■  unquestionably  the  moal  ad-    Brit  illualTation  Ii  A 


HEALTH  FOODS  v^nced  book  on  Vegetarian  Cookery,  giving 


auliful 
nolhing  but  the  little  brown  formle^a  gem 

Thli  la   the  title  ofa  new  book  by  Mia.  H,  whlch*lhe  uBeoffiesh.meatandmlik  laauper-  "mains  which  afler  It  has  passed  tbrongb 

T.Anderson  and  published  at  Ihe  Naiional  aeded.    PruiUand  somevegetaUe*  alaoeome  >>*'^  *<"^  *>'''"  stage*  grows  to  be    ■  ripe 

Institute  of  Bcfence,  Maaotilc  Temple.  Chica-  In  for  sshsre  of  attention  sod  theconblna-  ■'"'  iu«lo"i  apple.    So  the  aulhor   says  ii 

go.     It  conUlasahalftoBeoftheauthoreas,  lion  ofnuti  and  grains  In    the  production  of  '«    with  Ihe  first  knowledge  of  Imth  there 

wholsttaewlfe  of  Prof.  Andenon.     Having  rich  and  palatable  dishes  It  beyond  anything  appear  biosKims  of  glad    hope    and    sweei 

dined  (I  their  home,  we  were  very  favorably  yet  hinted  at  In  the  mort  advanced  of  the  love;   then  follows  hard  and  bitter  eiperi- 

impressed  with  Mr*.  Anderson's  cookery  and  achoola  of  Cookery.  ence  and  varioui  atage*  «re  passed  and  life 

areglad  *he  hu  embodied  her  eiperleace*  We  have  long  needed  a  book  of  this  char-  Isenlarged  devtloplngthe  wisdom  and  lore 

in  Ihe  fbrm  ol  a  book.    The  book    also  con-  acter  and  congratulate  Mrs.  Lambert  in  pro-  of  mature  yeata   and  lastly  the  tree  of  life 

Ulna  valuable  Inlormatlon  in  relation  to  the  dnclog  a  book  of  marvelous  compteteoesa,  yields  ripe   delicious  frnll.      Mr*.  Thackei 

vartoua  kinds  offood.  showing  their  diemlcs]  beauty  and  utility  while  lU  price  Is  the  only  <"   >  devoted  member  of  the   V.  S.  A.   and 

and  economic  value*.      Nuts  and  frulu  are  cheap  feature  about  It.      We  hope  to  give  ex-  exetcisea  an  incieaaing  InSnenK  for  Koort 

Ihe  most  highly  commended  as  food,  while  Iracta  in  future  number*  to  (how  its  original-  She  hsa  a  achool  lor  thla  pnrpoac  at  ^^e 

flesh-meat  Is,  ofconrse.condcmecd.  Ji.  cloth.  Ity  in  (he  production  ornoTelllesin  cookery.  1         ""' 


.Google 


^be  Zme  Science  of  Xfv(na, 

Or,  THE  NEW  GOSPEL  OF  HEALTH. 
EDWARD  HOOKER  DEWEY,    M.  D.     Introduction    by    REV. 
GEO.  F.  PENTECOST.  D.  D. 


H  Hew  Era  for  Moman, 

y  the  same  author.    Introduction  by  ALICE  McCLELLAN  BIRNBY, 
President  of  the  National  Congress  of  Mothers. 

These  books  conUin  THE  KEY  TO  PERFECT  HEALTH 
hey  explain  the  cause  of  all  disease,  and  give  the  CURE  WITHOUT 
'RUGS,  or  any  treatment  involving  expense. 

I  Htmly  believe  that  there  isiiolimU  to  its  healing  power. 

JOSEPH  P.  LAND,  M.  D  . 
130  West  126th  St.,  New  York  City, 
publiabers'  ffiunTantee. 

Adt  penwB  purchuint  Ihenc  hooka,  and  sAcr  adoptinc  the  ■jaterd  Bud  roltowlntt  it  for 

rfuDd  Ihe  noti«r. 

RSFRRENCBS  AS  TO  ABOVB  GUARANTBB. 
F.  3.  JBROME.  Ptm  Nat.  Bank.  Norwich,  Ct.. 

K.  L-  BISHOP,  Sapt.  of  Schools,  Noiwldi,  CL 

Prices. 

"True  Sdeace  of  LMdr."  linen  ti.as,  buckram  Si  .Jo. 
"New  Bra  for  Womao,"  lluea  ti.is,  buckram  fi.ja. 

Sent  Postpaid  on  receipt  0/  price  when  ordered  of  the 

VEOBTARIAN  SOCIETY  OF  AMERICA, 

023  FOULKROD  STREET,  STATION  F,  PHILADELPHIA. 

KEEP  IN  A  COOL,  DRY  PLACE. 

PENQLA. 

A  highly  nutritive  and  wholesome  product  of 
WHITE  PARCHED  CORN  and  the   Vegetarian  Society  Mill. 
An  excellent  sustaioingf  food  for  long  voyages  and  journeys  afoot, 

awheel  and  otherwise. 

Can  be  taken  sitnply  soaked  in  water,  milk  or  cream,  with   or 

without  sugar. 

It  is  excellent  soaked  in  Fruit  Syrup  or  Grape  Juice. 

Sold  in  I  lb.  packages  at  10  Cents.  Sample  by  mail,  7  Cents. 

Manufactured  nuder  the  direction  of 

THE  VKGETARIAN  SOCIETY  OF  AMERICA, 

1023  Foulkrod  Street,  Frankford,  Phila. 

PURE  FRUIT  BUTTER.       pure  HImon^  ButCcr.    i 

This  butter  is  especially  adapted   M'"^*  f™"  *^'  ,'^'  Valencia   al-  ' 
f"  ■>         f  monds.  carefully  prepared. 

65  cts.  per  pint. 
V.  S.  A.,  1013  FOULKROD  ST.,  1 
Station  F,  Philadelphia. 


NUT  CHEESE. 

Made  from  a  selection  of  tlie  best 
nuts  ground  together,  fonning  a 
rich  a.id  liighly  nutritive  fooil  to 
be  eaten  with  bread,  crackers,  etc. 
It  differs  from  dairy  cheese  in  be- 
ing perfectly  digestible. 
65  cents  a  pint, 
/osj  FoulkrodSt.,  Sla.  F,  Phila. 

...KAUOHPHY... 

A  hygienic  substitute  for  coffee- 
A  wholesome  and  nutritions  bev- 
erage invented  by 

DR.  J.  HARVEY  LOVELL. 
Sample  package  by  mall,  10  cu,     i  lb  pack- 
age, 10  eta.:  by  mail.jScla. 

Vegetarian  Society  0/  America 
1023  Foulkrod  St.,  Phila, 

iDegetarian  Soap. 

i>  blendtd  parlEed  petroleum.     11  la  Ihe  moKt 
perfect  clean  Mil  a  aoHp  we  hiiTC  Iried  and  <■ 

targeir  TiMil'tiT  Ihc  United  SlalnhoapltnlsoD 


for  Fruit  Sandwiches.  It  is  made 
by  a  new  process  from  the  best 
selected  fruits. 

In  lo-ct  cans.    Sample  by  mail, 
to  cents. 
V.  S.  A.,  1023  FOULKROD  ST., 
Station  F,  Philadelphia. 


Dome  life  ?,::;fjfe':;; 

per  deroled  to  Hone,  Health  an 
II  outhi  10  be  read  la  tviry  Tamil 


"77"  f<^  Simple  and 

Complicated  Colds. 

Ihwm  InBueniB  la  Grip— Irom  BronChllla  to 
Pneumonia— from  Sore  Throat  to  Diplherii, 
are"broketi  op"  b;  I>r.  Humph rey'a  Specific 
"77."    AlldrucKl»t>,  iscenU. 

IPirflinla  Womee, 


Farmer  Co.,  Emporia,  Va. 
VEGETARIANS 

Can  be  accommodated  with  ROOMS  and 
HVGlftNIC  BOARD  al  m  Reiohald'a  San- 
llarlum  of  lh«  Naiure  Cure.  613  LdtlngloD 
Avenue,  cor.  S,«i  street.  New  York  Cilv.       43 

FRBH  to  advanced  thought  people — Sample 
_CopY  of  Ihe  mMt  o^lgina^  and  pradical 


...Medical  Book... 


free      Addieu  H 


VEGETARIANS!! 

The  Guide  for  Nat  Cookery  is  the  only  stricUj 

VegetAriAn  Cook  Book  in  existence.  '  It  is  just  &om  the  press- 
Endorsed  by  leading  cooks  and  Vegetarians  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 
Contains  450  pages.  Is  gotten  up  in  an  attractive  and  pleasing  style,: 
well  illustrated,  bound  in  oil  cloth  and  printed  on  fine  paper.  Contain 
nearly  1000  new  and  original,  healthful  and  nutritious,  palatable  and 
delicious  recipes  for  using  nuts  in  foods.  Sent  postpaid  for$t.25.  Fo' 
a  full  and  complete  description  write  to  us  for  circulars.  Please  mentiDii 
this  paper.     Address 

JOSEPH  LAMBERT,  Battle  Creek,  Mich. 


Bet  aeutgcb'Hmerltonlecbe  Naturarzt. 

befint  aadonly  Gerntan  magnElucla  Americn  Ireatlug  Id  ■  papular  irs;  the  irhale 
F  NATURAL  UBALIKG.  It  (eacfaa  physical  or  SHlural  ulf-knoitledtce,  the 
fllviiiR.phyalcaledDcalloiiinddorlopiDUt  orth«  entire  Hum  an  Nature.  All 
phyalcal  and  rantal  dlaeaaea  are  treated  and  cured  by  natural  proccaia  oF  life,  Nature  being 
Ihefineatpbyalciau  and  moat  eBectlve  remedy  in  one.  laaned  monthly.  36  pagn.  Fur  only  ti 
A  YEAR.  Editor.  B.  0LB1T3HANN.  B.  S.,  M.  D.,  Natarlnt.    Addreu  all  com  m  uu  leal  Ion  ■  to 

NATURARZT  PUB.  CO.,  iiS  Park  St.,  Sta.  F,  Chicago,  III. 

JOSEPH  H.  QARTSIDE 

Inventor  of  the  famous  Gartside  Washer  and  Rinser  and  Gartside 
Washing-machine  Soap  (put  up  in  glass  jars).  With  this  washer 
and  soap  a  family  wash  of  loo  pieces  can  be  washed  and  rinced  by 
two  ladies  in  loo  minutes.  Throw  away  your  woman  killers  and 
get  up  to  date.  This  soap  will  reduce  the  labor  on  any  washing 
machine.  Twelve  pounck  of  soap  and  one  washer,  $1.50,  F.  O. 
B.,  Philadelphia,  Ya.  Weight  of  package,  25  lbs.  Or  will  mail 
one  washer  and  the  recipe  for  making  this  famous  soap  on  receipt 
of  $1.00.  Send  cash,  check  or  money  order  and  state  how  you 
want  it  shipped.  Address 


FOR  SALE! 

17  ACRES  OP  LAND  In  the   Ciinlie 

.Tenn.     r      " 


eau.Tenn.     I>r.  Fell,  who  1 


Joseph  TH.  ©artsf&e, 

667  tUnlon  Street,  West  pMIabelpbia, 


Colony  I  know  of.     I  am  pretty  welT  podid 

aeen  lla  wondeiful  adaptatioti  la  ascb  ■ 
purpose,  and  ticlng  In  aympath^  wlUi  audi  ■ 

tentlon'  to  It.  It  can  be  had  at  the  lav  i»ia 
ofj^pcracre.  The  timtxron  It  la  TOrth,  a 
Itatanda.nanvllmn  Iheprlcc  uked  tor  il. 
II  Is  underlaid  with  three  aeama  of  fine  oea:. 
Thualhecoal  and  the  timberwonld.  In  Ibeii 
export,  faml*b  profitable  employment,  to  My 
nothing  of  the  production*  from  Ktir  uil. 
which  1A  good  Tot  all  the  c^reala,  frulta  aad 

mlleaofriBan  object  leuon.  thai   haa  ar»r- 

on  a  raTlaoR^r while  thli  land''rront(  dlrml' 
on  a  railroad  and  lava  between  two  of  the 
moatthrlTlnntDwnaortheaoalh.    No  heallli- 


Help  along  the  Good  Work. 

THB   VEGETARIAN  U     publlihlnK    1| 


pa. 


HUMPHREYS'  ™i;TJ::':i'-™««! 


No.      I  Cures  Fever. 

No      3       "       Infants'  Diseases. 

No.      4       "       Diarrhea, 

No.      8        "       Neuralgia, 

No.     9       "       Headache. 

No.  10       "        Dyspepsia. 

No.  14  Cures  Skin  Diseases. 

No.  18       "        Rheumatism. 

No.  20  "  Whooping  Cough 
Kidney  Diseases. 
Urinary  Diseases 
Colds  and  Grip. 

_  rgflnt  prepaid  upon  reoelpt 

9t  prke.  n  cents  each,     llumphrerx'  Hedloitia 


No.  27  " 
No.  SO  " 
No.  77        " 

Sold  by  dnurglrtB.  nra 

at  prke.  n  cents  each.     , 

Oo..  Ill  wmiam  St.,  New  York. 


rtofL! 
The  four  beat  books  on  Heal  III  Reform. 

Hygiene). 

THE  KITCHEN  (on 
Ulelaryj,  Mra.  E.  E.  Kellogg. 

4  NATURAL  METHOD  OF  PHY3H 
AL  TRAINING  (on  Phyalcal  Culture)  h 
Edwin  Check  ley. 

DISEASES  OF  MODERN  LIFE  (o 
SaniUllon),  by  Dr.  B.  W.  RlchardMn. 

laaued  by   TBB  AMERICAS  HEALTH 
PKOPAOANDA, 

Send  for  50-cent  membeiahlp  and  receive 
THB  NEW  HYGIENE.  300  pagea,  free. 

psfS  WinchesUr  Ave., 

CHICAGO,  ILL. 


"Saline  Starcnlion."    Single  copy,  5c.;  iot, 
nc,:so. $1.00: 100,(3.75. 

"Religion    and     Veitetarlanlam."       Sligic 
op*,  jc.;  doi.5Dc,;sD,li;ioo.Ii.7j. 

"Clerical    Siiortamen."     Single    copy,  it-'- 
.01  .4oc:5o.Ii.jo;  loo.fijs- 

"Mealleaa  Dlabea."    Slnglecopy.  lociooi.. 
i;so,  »3  7S:  100.  »7 

The  bookleia  ate  tieatly  piUted  and  will  be 
alued  by  theredplenta. 

CHICAGO  VEGETARIAN, 
McVlcker's  BDlldlng,  Chicago,  BL 


The  Brotherhood  of  the 

Eternal  Covenant 

afford!  to  all  who  are  willing  to  cmaecnK 

theniKlvei  to  God  the  help  and  knowledft 

before  death,  without  Ice  or  dwma.  Send  icc- 

for  a  aaiuple  copy  of  the  monthly  magaaint. 

THE  PROPHKT.Oaklrn.N.J.,  U.  8.  A 


Send  10  cU.  with  your  addreaa  Tor  the 

Oospel  of  Health,  SiV»»S 

without  drug!.    J.  BcTLut,  Morton  Park.  Hi. 


HOW  TO  HEAL 

By   Nature's  Potent  Methods. 

18  MOST  VALUABLH  BOOK  OP  THE  AGE. 
'  everybody  Hod  no  one  CAn    aObrd  to  be  wltb- 


\ 


ni>lified. 


1  physK 


«)(h  gold  lud  "flw 


Dr.  J.  H.  Hanaford's  Books.  \ 

We  have  a  few  copies  left  of  the  following  a5-cent  pamphlets, 

atiY  one  of  which  we  will  send  on  receipt  of  five  one-cent  stamps. 

0OOD  JSreati  anti  flow  to  Aahe  It. 

B  fait  Compleiton  an&  flow  to  Secute  Vt. 

These  are  valuable  books  and  should  be  extensively  circulated. 

V.  S.  A.,  1023  FouLKROD  St.,  Station  F.,  Phila. 


»cactanan  Soclcti? 
f  america  .  .   . 

PUBLISHERS  OP 

SS'JbSS;  litbratvrb 

ALL  KINDS  Of 

BOOK  AND  JOB 

PRINTING 

Well  and  promptly  executed. 


S/XTH  NUMBER  ISSUED  ON  OCTOBER  alh. 

The  New  Vegetarian  Quarterly. 

OUR  POSTSCRIPT. 

No,  I. — A  Vegetarian  Synopsis,  by  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb. 
No.  2.— The  Vegetarian  Principle,  by  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clnbb. 
No.  3. — The  Anatomy  of  Man,  by  Prof.  Leo  Weiner,  of  Harvard, 
No.  4. — Human  Physiology,  by  Dr.  J.  Harvey  Lovell. 
No.  5. — The  Chemistry  0/ Food,  by  Rev.  H±nry  S.  Clabb. 
No.  6. — Economy  in  Food,  by  Rev.  Henry  S.  Clubb. 


Have  You  "  Common  Sense  ?  " 

I  r  not.  (end  at  once  for    Tree  copy  of  thli 
1  Ubn-al      mtoded     adTociile     of  advaiiMd 


Tbei.-  DIM   u   f___     

ibert  Broadbeut.    SeciMary 


...Mesttup's... 

"H^egfcnic  Insoles 


It  is  to  furnish  all  Vegetarians  and  friends  with  a  neot, 
attractive  little  tract  to  enclose  in  letters.  It  is  jnst  tbe  size  for  a 
coimuon-sized  envelope  and.  is  intended  as  a  pioneer  or  introduction 
of  tbe  Vegetarian  Philosophy  to  those  who  have  no  information  on 
the  subject.  The  Vegetarian  Synopsis  will  be  followed  by  a  tract 
on  each  of  the  items  in  the  Synopsis,  so  that  a  complete  Vegetarian 
essay  will  be  contained  in  a  complete  series,  i  copy  1  year,  scents; 
locopies  I  year,  35  cents;  100  copies  i  year,  ti.oo.  Extra  copies, 
100, accents;  500,  fi.oo.  Friends  are  all  invited  to  aid  the  circu- 
lation hy  enclosing  in  letters. 

Subscribe  "Row. 

American  Vegetarian  Cookery, 

REDUCED  TO  15  CENTS, 

This  Cookery  contains  over  350  Recipes  by  Ladies  of  life  experience 
in  the  Vegetarian  practice  and  iti  specially  adapted  lo  beginners. 

Send  15  one  cent  stamps  to  V.  S.  A.  310  Chestnut  .St.  Philadel- 
phia, Pa.     And  it  will  beiient  post  paid  by  return  mail. 


IncloM  BIX  CENTS,  >t 

irn,  whetliet  poirleJ  t 

ATION  F.  PHILA  ,  a 


V  CE 


„„^. „«.„..        LITHRATURH        TEN 

CENTS  4  POUSDI    On    receipt  of  ten 

'"    nail  a  ponsd  package  of  read. 

table  fardlitribotioii,  cODlalD- 

(nniulLRi,  ndpeiAc.     V.B.a, 

iThlUMDhta. 


^NTa-bisLPal  Way  ir^  Bieis, 

Or,  THE  PROPER  FOOD  OF  MAN, 

By  PROP.  L.  H.  ANDERSON,  Anlhoror-KOK  to  win,"  "Key  to  Power,"  etc. 

THIS  is  the  latest  of  Dr.  Anderson's  boolcs,  and  it  is  a 
capital  compilation  of  the  fects  and  arguments  in  favor  of  a  humane 
and  merciful  system  of  living.  Few  men  in  this  country  have  done 
as  much  to  promote  practical  Vegetarianism  as  has  Dr.  Anderson, 
of  the  National  Institute  of  Science.  This  book  combines  the 
Scientific  and  Humanitarian  reasons  and  contains  contribution!; 
experiences  and  portraits  of  some  of  the  most  zealous  workers  in  t' 
cause.  The  iniquity  of  vivisection  is  also  exposed.  Nnmero 
engravings. — Food,  Home  and  Garden. 

Send$r.oo  to  the  Vegetarian  Society  of  America ,  losj  Ft 
rod  Street,  Station  F,  Philadelphia,  and  the  book,  bound  in  cloth 
silver  illuminated ,  will  be  sent  by  mail  post-paid . 


PURE  PEANUT  BUTTER. 

This  Butter  is  warranted  to  contain  the  best  nuts  frown,  and  carefully  selected, 
every  imperfect  nut  being'  eliminated  before  grinding.  No  salt  or  adulteration  of  any  kind  is 
added,  the  object  being  to  secure  the  rich  flavor  of  the  nut.  It  has  received  high  commenda- 
tion from  all  who  have  used  it.     It  is  especially  adapted  for 

SANDWICHES,  FRITTERS,  CROQUETTES,  ETC., 


Picnics.  Noon  Lunches  and  Five  o'clock  Teas. 

-  -  Appetizing  and  Nutritious  -  • 

Good  for  convalescents,   being  easily  digested  and  nitrogenous. 
PHicBS  OP  punB  PBANVT  BUTTBR.  In  ordering,  state  wliether  by  Adams, 
One  pint  self-sealing  tin  can.              30  cts.      American,    West  Jersey  or   Package   Ei- 
cans               $^00     P^^ss.     If  by  the  latter,  name  the  station. 

VEGETARIAN  SOCIETY  OF  AMERICA, 
1023  JFouIhcob  St.,  Station  f,  pbllabelpbia. 


]/r\   \\\  IX     FORMERLY  KNOW? 
NLJ-INU    1  AS   NUTCOA. 

THIS  is  one  of  the  articles  supplied  by  the  VEGETARIAN  SOCIE1 
OF  AMERICA  for  the  following  reasons: 

1.  It  is  a  thoroughly  pure  fat  made  from  the  cocoanut. 

2.  It  is  now  of  established  reputation,  having  been  manufactured  hy 
reputable  company  in  Philadelphia  several  years,  of  unvarying  good  qualitj 

3.  It  supersedes  the  nse  of  all  animal  fat  for  cooking. 

5.  It  is  perfectly  wholesome  and  produces  none  of  the  unpleasant  consequences  wbich  usually  folic 
the  use  of  animal  fats. 

5.  With  its  use  there  is  no  danger  of  tuberculosis,  hog-cholera,  or  any  of  the  diseases  infc.stii 
domestic  animals  which  have  caused  so  much  sufiering  and  mortality  among  civilized  races  partaking 
animal  fat. 

6.  It  is  so  purified  from  fatty  acid  that  it  will  keep  years  without  becoming  rancid. 

7.  It  cures  and  prevents  indigestion  caused  by  the  use  of  food  in  which  animn!  fat  is  used  for  sha 
ening. 

8.  Its  use  in  first-class  hotels,  restaurants  and  bakeries  is  increasing  as  its  value  becomes  known. 

9.  No  respectable  family,  after  te.sting  it  for  cooking   purposes  will   wish  to  be  without  a  sup; 
^  for  daily  use. 

]>4^        10.  Thecompany  manufacturing  it  has  made  the  Vej^etarian  Society  of  America  its  wholesale  agel 
kj  jnd  enabled  it  to  supply  tbe  trade  at  the  lowest  cash  prices  obtainable. 

Hoh  Ko-Nut  is  put  up  in  3  and  5  pound  self-sealing  tins,  packed  30  or  do  pounds  to  the  case,  alsoi 

^P^jj' pound  tins.     Our  friends  arc  advised  to  send  for  at  least  30  pounds  at  a  time,  as  any  less  amount  sj 

'      her  by  freight  or  express  is  too  expensive.     The  Price  is  15  Cknts  a  Pound  in  large  or  small  tins| 

ecase,  but  we  will  send  a  single  5  lb.  canon  receipt  of  80  cents,  ort*o  cans  for  $1.50.     Please  state  b 

be  sent.     Cash,  checks  or  money  order.i.     In  barrels  of  400  pounds  each  for  bakers'  nse,  a  special  pi 

obtained  on  application. 


„Googlc 


db,  Google 


