cook  

fopvrighflf 


Entered,  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1920. 
By  The  Public  School  Auxiliary, 
In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington,  D.  C. 


[all  rights  reserved] 


COMMUNITY  CHURCH  AND  FIRST  SCHOOL 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS 


THE  FREDERICKSBURG 


Home  Kitchen 


Published  by 

The  Public  School  Auxiliary 
of  fredericksburg,  texas 


First  Edition  1916 

Second  Edition  Revised  and  Enlarged  1921 

i 


OFFICERS  FOR  1920  to  1921 


MRS.  H.  M.  HARRINGTON,  President 
MRS.  VICTOR  KEIDEL,  Vice-President 
MRS.  F.  J.  MAIER,  Secretary 
MISS  ZULA  MAE  HILL,  Treasurer 


MAR  I  I  1921 
§>CtA611078 


PREFACE. 


The  second  edition  of  this  book  has  been  compiled  in 
commemoration  of  the  75th  anniversary  of  the  founding 
of  the  town  of  Fredericksburg,  and  is  lovingly  dedicated 
by  the 

Fredericksburg  Public  School  Auxiliary, 
to  those 
sturdy  Pioneers, 
whose  indomitable  spirit  and  energy  have  transformed 
a  bit  of  Texas  wilderness,  into  a  place  of  peaceful  abode 
and  prosperity. 


COOKING  AND  CULTURE 
ON  THE  PEDERNALES 


The  rolling  prairie  dripping  with  the  violent  tor- 
rential rains  of  Texas  or  seared  and  parched  a  dry  and 
cracking  brown  by  summers'  drouth,  the  sparkling 
rivers  with  their  sombre  cypress  borders  or  shady 
groves  of  walnut  and  pecan — know  only  woodland 
sounds  of  birds  and  beast  that  seek  their  cooling  shelter, 
taste  of  the  purling  waters,  browse  on  the  succulent  herbs 
and  grasses  or  prey  upon  the  weaker  of  their  kind. 

The  nomad  Indian  prowls  along  these  peaceful 
haunts,  brings  to  earth  the  wild  turkey  with  his  bow 
and  arrow,  prepares  the  feast  over  the  open  fire  and 
devours  it  resting  on  his  haunches.  After  the  meal  he 
smokes  his  soothing  "Calumet",  its  brown  leaves, 
prairie-yielded.  He  teaches  the  stripling  redskin  how 
to  fell  the  bison — to  prepare  the  deadly  arrow  with  the 
venom  of  the  viper,  —  all  his  lore  is  slaying  — 
slaying,  for  food,  for  shelter,  for  revenge,  or  conquest. 

The  first  blow  of  the  ax — tocsin  of  human  progress. 
The  pioneer  has  come  to  clear  the  land  and  build  his 
rough  log  cabin.  In  the  spacious  fire-place  swings 
the  iron  kettle  with  his  rude  trappers'  fare;  he  rears 
a  stalwart  race,  steeled  to  hard  labor,  untaught,  un- 
lettered save  for  the  woodland  crafts,  the  hunt,  the 
stream  or  skirmishings  with  Indian  neighbors. 

In  homespun  cloth,  astride  on  shaggy  ponies,  the 
lads  and  lasses  wend  their  way  to  the  log  schoolhouse 


on  the  hillock,  summoned  by  the  peal  of  the  forefather 
of  all  Texas  school-bells.  The  master  cloaks  his  lack 
of  learning  under  greater  sterness,  the  text-book  play- 
ing second  fiddle  to  the  ferrule.  Homes  on  the  first 
thanksgiving  can  boast  of  bounteous  cupboards;  the 
hardest  years  are  past  and  there  is  time  for  feast  and 
song,  for  ease  and  plenty. 

Thru  snowy  cotton  fields,  acres  of  corn  and  grain, 
traverse  two  tiny  lines  of  steel  on  a  ribbed  bed  of 
logs  and  the  day  at  last  has  come  that  the  last  peg- 
is  to  be  put  into  the  iron  trail  —  a  happy  consum- 
mation ! 

The  thriving  town  is  decked  with  flags  and 
bunting;  schoolchildren,  clad  in  Sunday  laces,  sing 
welcome  to  the  throng  that  has  come  to  christen  the 
first  engine  destined  to  draw  the  products  of  their 
fields  and  orchards  to  the  great  marts  of  trade.  Bands 
play  and  feasts  are  spread;  the  best  of  all  that  harvest 
yields  is  showered  forth  to  tempt  the  appetite:  huge 
cakes  and  fragrant  pies  and  tarts,  jellies  and  preserves 
all  testify  to  housewives'  skill;  savory  sausages,  home 
cured  hams  and  mellowest  of  cheese  disclose  their  craft. 

There  is  loud  rejoicing  here  for  what  has  been 
achieved  and  there  is  too,  a  still  and  holy  joy  for 
what  is  yet  to  be  —  and  a  few  dreamers  see,  —  nestled 
among  these  lovely  hills  — ■  a  city  bright  and  fair, 
peaceful  abode  for  a  happy,  healthy  and  industrious 
generation,  led  by  wise  council,  and  crowned  by  the 
fairest  of  all  temples  —  a  perfect  SCHOOL-HOUSE. 


—  9  — 


RELISHES 


Oyster  Cocktail, 

6  oysters;  £  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup;  yz  tea- 
spoonful  of  grated  horse  radish;  juice  of  %  small 
lemon;  dash  of  Worcestershire  Sauce. 

This  is  for  one  cocktail. 

MRS.  F.  L.  FREY. 

Pineapple  Cocktail. 

1  pineapple ;  y2  cupful  orange  juice ;  1  cupful  sugar ; 
1/3  cupful  grapefruit  juice ;  %  cupful  cocoanut ;  1/3  cup- 
ful water. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  for  five  minutes, 
cool,  add  the  fruit  juices.  Cut  fresh  pineapple  in  cylind- 
ers, using  an  apple  corer,  put  in  glasses  with  cocoanut, 
and  cover  with  the  syrup. 

MRS.  ALFRED  P.  C.  PETSCH. 

Cheese  Straws. 

1  cup  flour;  1  cup  grated  cheese;  1  level  tea- 
spoon salt;  1|6  teaspoon  Cayenne  pepper;  4  table- 
spoons melted  Snowdrift  (any  kind  of  lard  will  do) ; 
3  tablespoons  ice  water. 

Sift  flour  and  mix  with  Snowdrift  stirring  with  a 
fork.  Add  cheese  and  seasoning,  and  lastly  add  ice 
water.  Roll  on  floured  board  about  %  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  narrow  strips  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MISS  ALVINA  GOLD. 


—  10  — 


Pimento  and  Egg  Canapees. 

Pimentos  y2  can;  butler  y2  cup;  salt  y2  tea- 
spoonful;  eggs  (hard  boiled) ;  bread;  bread,  toasted  or 
fried;  pickled  walnuts,  or  any  other  pickles. 

Rinse  the  pimentoes  in  cold  water,  dry  on  a  cloth, 
then  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  the  salt  and  butter  and 
pound  until  whole  is  smooth.  Spread  on  diamond- 
shaped  pieces  of  toasted  or  fried  bread,  placing  a 
slice  of  hard  boiled  egg  and  a  small  piece  of  pickle 
in  the  center  of  each  piece  of  bread. 

CONSTANCE  STRIEGLER. 

Stuffed  Celery. 

14  tfe-  Roquefort  cheese;  y2  cup  sweet  cream; 
paprika,  olives,  green  peppers. 

Work  cream  into  cheese  until  as  smooth  as  paste; 
add  chopped  olives  and  peppers;  fill  hollows  of  tender 
stalks  of  celery,  dust  with  paprika;  serve  as  an 
appetizer  with  soup  or  as  atter-dinner  cheese. 

MRS.  W.  PETIT. 

Anchovy  Appetizer. 

Spread  triangles  of  toast  with  anchovy  paste, 
place  on  each  a  thin  slice  of  fresh  ripe  tomato,  sprinkle 
over  with  hard  boiled  egg  chopped  fine.  Place  on 
nest  of  cress  or  parsley  garnished  with  pimento  strips. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 

Table  Mustard. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard;  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  y2  cupful  of 
vinegar;  yolks  of  2  eggs. 


—  11  — 


Wet  mustard  with  a  little  boiJing  water,  add 
sugar,  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  vinegar.  Mix 
well,  set  in  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring. 

A  good  relish. 

MRS.  A.  B.  WILLIAMSON. 

Welsch  Rarebit. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  1  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch; %  teaspoonful  of  mustard;  salt  and  Chili 
pepper  to  taste;  y2  cup  of  cream;  y2  lb  of  soft  mild 
American  cheese. 

Cream,  butter,  cornstarch  and  mustard  to  a  paste. 
Add  to  the  hot  cream.  Lastly  add  cheese  and  seasoning. 
Stir  till  cheese  melts.  Serve  on  toast  browned  on  one 
side. 

MISS  DORA  NAUWALD. 
Ham  Relish. 

%  lb  cheese;  *4  lb  boiled  ham;  3  eggs;  6  ordinary 
square  soda  crackers. 

y2  pint  milk;  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce;  y2 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Use  finest  cutter  of  any  meat 
chopper.  Run  cheese  through  first,  then  the  ham  and 
then  the  crackers.  Add  Worcestershire  Sauce,  red 
pepper  and  salt.  Then  add  milk  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Beat  the  eggs  until  very  light,  then  add  in  the  butter. 
Sprinkle  baking  powder  over  the  top  and  mix  it  lightly. 
Bake  showly  in  buttered  earthen  baking  dish  until 
brown. 

MRS.  A.  Z1NCKE. 


—  12  — 


Mexican  Relish* 

4  green  tomatoes;  2  green  peppers;  1  onion;  y2 
teaspoon  horseradish,  chop  or  grind  fine.  Place  this  in 
a  jar  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar,  to  which  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  tablespoon  Chili  Powder  and  1  table- 
spoon mnstard  have  been  added.  The  Chili  Powder 
should  be  boiled  in  the  vinegar  for  at  least  ten  minutes 
before  the  other  seasoning  is  added. 

To  be  served  with  any  meat  dishes. 

MRS.  HARRY  HBYLAND. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

2  eggs ;  1  cup  of  grated  cheese ;  1  cup  of  sweet  milk ; 
1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour;  pinch  of  salt. 

Put  in  buttered  pan,  cook  in  hot  oven  ten  minutes. 

MRS.  HARRY  M.  HARRINGTON. 


—  13  — 


Beef  Soup. 

Boil  2  lb  of  beef  in  y2  gal.  water.  When  it  has 
come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  a  pinch  of  celery  salt,  1  onion,  and  1  cupful 
tomatoes.    Boil  at  least  2  hours. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYER. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup. 

1  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  1  quart  of  sweet 
milk. 

Boil  20  minutes;  add  1  tablespoonful  melted  butter 
and  thicken  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour^  dissolved 
in  milk  or  water.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  A  little 
cream  added  improves  it. 

MRS.  HOWARD  HONAN. 

Fish  Chowder. 

To  every  2  lb  fish,  use  5  medium  sized  potatoes; 
1  large  onion;  5  or  6  slices  breakfast  bacon;  canned 
tomatoes;  2  bay  leaves;  1  teaspoonful  whole  pepper; 
salt  and  paprika  to  taste. 

Slice  bacon  and  fry  light  brown,  add  potatoes, 
onion  and  fish  in  layers,  cover  with  canned  tomatoes 
into  which  seasoning  has  been  stirred.  Simmer  until 
well  done. 

Serve  as  soup,  excellent  Friday  dish. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 


—  14  — 


MILK  SOUP  (fine). 

1  qt.  fresh  milk;  14  Qt.  water;  yolk  of  2  eggs; 
a  pinch  of  salt;  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff;  a 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  sugar;  a  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  cornstarch;  lemon  peel  or  vanilla,  or  2  fresh  peach 
leaves. 

Put  on  the  stove  the  water  and  milk,  add  the  corn- 
starch after  it  has  been  dissolved  with  a  little  of 
the  water ;  a  pinch  of  salt  and  the  beaten  yolks,  also  the 
lemon  or  peach  leaves  and  sugar,  stirring  all  the 
time  while  heating.  When  it  begins  to  thicken  re- 
move from  the  fire  at  once  and  pour  into  a  dish. 
Drop  spoonfuls  of  the  beaten  whites  of  egg  on  top, 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Then  put  on 
cover  at  once  so  that  the  heat  may  cook  the  whites. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STR1EGLER. 

Milk  Soup. 

y2  cup  rice;  1  qt.  milk;  1  egg;  *4  C^P  sugar;  y2 
teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Cook  rice  in  water  until  tender.  Add  milk,  then 
boil  a  few  minutes,  take  from  fire  and  beat  into  this 
1  egg,  add  nutmeg.   Lastly  add  the  sugar. 

MRS.  RICHARD  HENKE. 

Oyster  Soup. 

2  quarts  of  milk;  yolk  of  one  egg;  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  butter;  3  small  cans  of  oysters;  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

MRS.  L.  DIETZ. 


—  15  — 


Pea  Soup. 

Soak  2  cups  of  dried  peas  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing cook  until  half  done,  then  add  1'  lb  sausage  cut 
into  pieces  (skin  removed),  1  onion,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.   Keep  plenty  of  water  on  peas. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYER. 
Potato  Soup  with  Tomatoes. 

Equal  parts  of  potatoes  and  tomatoes;  1  large 
onion;  and  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  in  sufficient  water,  until  well  done,  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve,  then  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
mixed  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  fresh  butter.  Add 
parsley  to  taste.  MRS.  PETER  ROEDER. 

Peanut  Soup. 

Grind  one  cup  peanuts,  cover  with  1  pt.  water 
and  simmer  2  hours.  Have  1  pt.  tomatoes  and  one 
onion  cut  fine;  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  allspice,  1 
teaspoonful  sugar  and  1  pt.  water  cooking  in  another 
vessel.  When  ready  strain  the  nut  liquid  into  the 
other,  thicken  with  flour,  and  serve. 

MRS.  HOWARD  HONAN. 
Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

1  qt.  of  tomatoes;  1  qt.  of  water;  1  qt.  of  sweet 
milk;  5  crackers;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda;  butter  and  salt. 

Cook  tomatoes  in  water  until  tender.  Rub  through 
a  sieve.  Place  tomatoes  on  the  stove  and  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  the  soda.  After  it  ceases  to 
effervesce,  add  the  boiling  milk,  rolled  crackers,  sugar 
and  a  little  butter  and  salt.  Boil  a  few  minutes. 
Serve.  MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 


—  16  — 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup, 

1  pt.  tomatoes;  1  qt.  milk;  1  slice  onion;  1  bay 
leaf;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  1  tablespoon  butter;  l1  table- 
spoon flour;  1  teaspoon  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  for  twenty  minutes  with  the 
onion  and  bay  leaf,  press  the  tomatoes  through  a 
sieve  and  return  to  the  stove,  heat  the  milk,  rub  the 
flour  and  butter  together  until  smooth,  add  a  little  of 
the  hot  milk  to  this  mixture,  stir  until  smooth,  then 
add  to  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  stir  until  it 
thickens  to  a  cream.  Add  the  sugar  and  salt  to  the 
tomatoes,  then  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water; 
gradually  add  the  milk  stirring  briskly.  The  success 
of  this  part  of  the  work  depends  on  the  milk  not  curd- 
ling. The  soup  must  not  be  heated  after  the  milk 
is  added. 

IDA  HENNERSDORF. 
Tomato  Bisque. 

1  quart  canned  tomatoes,  or  fresh  tomatoes  to  that 
amount;  1  quart  sweet  milk;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1 
tablespoonful  flour;  %  teaspoonfuls  soda. 

Steam  the  tomatoes  and  strain.  Add  the  soda  to 
the  hot  tomatoes  and  stir.  Make  a  thin  paste  with  the 
flour  and  a  little  of  the  milk;  add  to  the  tomato  juice 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Next  put  in  the  butter,  and 
last  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper.    Serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

MRS.  J.  T.  ESTILL. 

Wine  Soup. 

1  quart  of  water;  y2  cup  of  sago;  y2  cup  of  wine; 
a  few  raisins;  vanilla;  1/3  cup  of  sugar;  2  slices  of 


\ 


—  17  — 

lemon;  a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon.  Toasted  bread 
cubes. 

Put  a  quart  of  water  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Then 
add  the  sago,  after  it  has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water 
several  times;  then  the  cinnamon,  lemons,  and  raisins. 
Let  this  boil  until  clear  and  raisins  done.  Take  from 
the  stove  and  add  sugar,  wine  and  vanilla.  Just  before 
serving  add  bread  cubes  toasted  in  a  little  butter.  You 
may  add  wine  and  sugar  to  suit  the  taste. 

MRS  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 

Liver  Dumpling  Soup. 

Wash  and  boil  a  good  size  Soupbone  for  2  hours, 
add  a  little  onion,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Grind  about  three  or  four  pieces  of  liver,  two  eggs, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  baking  powder 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Drop  in 
dumplings  by  spoon  and  boil  for  y2  hour  longer. 

MRS.  A.  WALTER. 


—  18  — 


Oysters  and  rish  At 

Little  Pigs  in  Blankets. 

Take  large  oysters  and  around  each  oyster  wrap 
a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  securing  with  wooden  tooth  picks. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  butter.  Bake 
in  oven  for  half  hour  and  serve  very  hot  on  toast  with 
celery  and  garnish  the  platter  with  slices  of  lemon. 

MRS.  F.  L.  FREY. 
Fish  a  la  Creole. 
To  a  4  —  5  lb  Red  fish ;  2  lb  can  strained  tomatoes ; 

1  medium  size  onion;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  %  lb 
butter;  cup  soup  stock  or  water;  1  cup  cracker  crumbs. 

Start  frying  the  fish  in  the  butter,  cover  with 
crumbs,  with  onion,  tomato  and  seasoning,  bake  4§ 
minutes  or  1  hour. 

MRS.  FRITZ  KNUST. 
Salmon  Croquettes. 

1  can  salmon;    4    medium    sized   Irish  potatoes; 

2  eggs. 

After  draining  the  salmon  and  removing  the  bones 
and  skins;  mix  with  the  potatoes  previously  boiled  and 
mashed.  Add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste.  Make  out  in  balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

Simmer  one-half  can  tomatoes,  one  chopped  onion, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  pepper,  together  about 
ten  minutes.    Rub  through  a  sieve.    Cook  together  one 


—  19  — 


tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter,  and  add  the 
tomatoes,  gradually  cook  until  as  thick  as  desired. 

JULIA  ESTILL. 

Baked  Fish. 

After  cleaning  the  fish  thoroughly  let  it  stand  in 
salt  water  for  2  or  3  hours.  Rub  it  well,  inside  and  out, 
with  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  small  onion  chopped  fine, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stuff  the  fish  with  this  dres- 
sing and  tie  or  sew  up.  Put  it  in  a  pan  with  a  little 
water.  Sprinkle  with  flour,  adding  a  small  piece  of 
butter.  Bake  slowly  1  hour.  Garnish  with  hard  boiled 
eggs. 

META  DIETZ. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Take  oysters  according  to  the  number  to  be  served 
and  put  them  in  pan  with  butter,  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
little  flour;  stir  and  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes. 

Bake  shells  of  rich  puff  paste  in  patty  pans  and 
also  rounds  for  covers;  heat  the  shells  and  fill  with 
oysters;  put  on  the  covers  and  set  in  the  oven  for  five 
minutes.  Serve  immediately. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

1  can  salmon;  2  eggs;  salt;  Cayenne  pepper; 
bread-crumbs. 

Remove  bones  from  salmon,  shred  with  fork,  and 
add  salt,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  beaten  eggs.  Into  this 
mix  enough  fine  bread-crumbs  to  handle  well,  form 
into  round  or  oblong  shape,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 


—  20  — 


Fish  Premier  with  Premier  Sauce. 

4  lb  fish;  salt  and  pepper;  2  doz.  large  oysters; 
y±  cup  butter;  yolk  of  1  egg;  juice  of  y2  lemon 
remove  the  head  and  tail  of  fish,  skin  and  bone 
it,  leaving  two  oblong  pieces.  Lay  one  of  the  pieces 
on  a  greased  baking  sheet  in  the  baking  pan,  cover 
with  half  the  oysters.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  the  crumbs 
and  pour  over  them  one-half  of  the  meited  butter.  Then 
cover  it  with  the  other  half  of  the  fish.  Place  the 
remaining  oysters  on  top  of  that  piece  of  fish,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  the  rest  of  the  crumbs 
on.  the  oysters  and  pour  the  remaining  butter  over  the 
crumbs.  Put  into  a  moderate  oven  and  brown.  When, 
done  slip  it  carefully  into  a  hot  platter,  garnish  with 
watercress  and  sliced  lemon.  Serve  with  the  follow- 
ing sauce: 

Vi  cup  butter;  yolk  of  1  egg;  juice  of  %  lemon; 
14  teaspoon  salt;  1/3  cup  boiling  water;  pinch  of  white 
pepper. 

Cook  in  double  boiler  for  six  minutes  and  serve 
in  a  separate  bowl.  Sufficient  for  six  persons. 
Delicious. 

MRS.  F.  L.  FREY. 

Fried  Oysters. 

Select  fresh  good  sized  oysters.  Pick  them  up  by 
the  muscular  portion  of  the  oyster  and  place  them 
on  a  dry  board.  Dry  them  carefully  with  a  soft  cheese 
cloth.  Sprinkle  with  salt.  To  each  dozen  oysters 
allow  1  egg.  Beat  the  white  and  yolk  together  until 
thoroughly  mixed ;  add  a  tablespoon  of  warm  water ; 


—  21  — 


beat  again.  Turn  oysters  in  nicely  rolled  and  dried 
bread  crumbs,  then  quickly  into  the  egg  and  back  into 
the  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  oil  or  lard  360°  (Fahr. ) ; 
when  golden  brown  lift  out  and  drain  on  paper.  Do 
not  prick  oyster  with  a  fork.   Serve  at  once. 

MRS.  VICTOR  KEIDEL. 

Oyster  Salad. 

Drain  the  liguid  from  a  quart  of  fresh  oysters. 
Put  them  in  hot  vinegar,  enough  to  cover,  place  over 
hot  fire.  Let  them  remain  until  plump,  but  not  cooked, 
then  drop  them  immediately  in  cold  water,  drain  off, 
and  mix  with  them  two  pickled  cucumbers  cut  fine, 
also  a  quart  of  celery  cut  in  dice  pieces,  some  season- 
ing of  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well  with  wooden  spoon 
or  silver  fork.  Pour  over  the  whole  a  Mayonnaise  dres- 
sing.   Garnish  with  celery  tips. 

MRS.  GEO.  E.  KOTT. 

Escalloped  Fish. 

Two  cups  left  over  fish,  picked  over  and  freed  of 
bones.  1  cup  thin  white  sauce,  bread  crumbs.  Butter 
a  baking  dish  and  line  with  crumbs.  Add  a  layer  of 
fish,  using  half,  and  cover  with  half  the  sauce.  Cover 
with  a  layer  of  crumbs.  Add  another  layer  of  fish, 
sauce  and  crumbs,  making  this  last  layer  of  crumbs 
quite  thick.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  leave  until  crumbs 
are  brown  and  fish  is  heated  through. 

VERDIE  KETTNER. 

Fried  Oysters. 

1  pint  large  oysters;  y2  C1IP  milk;  %  cup  tomato 
catsup;  y%  teaspoon  salt;  y2  cup  flour;  mix  thoroughly 


—  22  — 


flour,  milk,  catsup  and  salt  ;  dip  oysters  into  mixture, 
then  roll  them  in  cracker  crumbs. 

Fry  in  sweet,  fresh  lard,  butter  or  olive  oil  until  a 
dark  brown.    Serve  very  hot. 

MRS.  MAX  WINKEL. 
Salmon  Loaf. 

Mix  1  can  salmon  from  which  bones  and  skin  have 
been  removed,  with  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  and  2  well 
beaten  eggs.  Make  sauce  by  browning  2  tablespoons 
butter;  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  then  add  3  thinly  sliced 
green  peppers,  2  cups  sliced  tomatoes  with  juice  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  to  tomatoes.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Let 
cook  until  pepper  and  tomatoes  are  soft,  then  add  2 
cups  milk.  Put  layer  of  salmon  in  well  greased  baking 
dish  and  cover  with  sauce  then  another  layer  salmon 
and  finish  top  with  sauce.   Bake  %  hour. 

ELLA  EVERS. 

Fish  Sauce. 

y2  teaspoon  parsley;  1  teaspoon  butter;  1  teaspoon 
flour ;  y2  pint  soup  stock ;  4  tablespoons  capers ;  1  tea- 
spoon salt ;  1  teaspoon  Chili  Powder.  Heat  butter,  add 
flour,  stock,  ooil  10  minutes,  add  capers,  when  nearly 
done.  MRS.  HARRY  HEYLAND. 

Fried  Oysters 
Done  in  Oven  With  Tarter  Sauce. 

Roll  the  required  number  of  oysters  in  flour,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in 
vegetable  oil.  Bake  in  hot  oven  until  a  light  brown. 
Serve  with  tartar  sauce,  which  is  made  by  adding 
chopped  olives,  parsley  and  capers  to  Mayonnaise  dres- 
sing. MRS.  HARRY  HEYLAND. 


—  23  — 


Poultry  and  Game 


Chicken  Curry. 


Cut  up  a  chicken  weighing  from  l1^  to  2  pounds, 
as  for  fricassee.  Wash  it  well,  put  into  a  stewpan  with 
sufficient  water  to  cover  it,  boil  closely  covered  until 
tender,  add  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  cook  a  few 
minutes  longer.  Remove  from  the  fire,  take  out  the 
chicken,  pour  the  liquid  into  a  bowl  and  set  it  aside. 

Now  cut  up  into  the  stew  pan  two  small  onions  and 
fry  them  with  a  piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg.  As 
soon  as  they  are  brown  skim  them  out  and  put  in  the 
chicken,  fry  for  three  or  four  minutes.  Next  sprinkle 
over  the  chicken  two  teaspoonfuls  of  Curry  Powder. 
Now  pour  over  the  liquid  in  which  the  chicken  was 
stewed,  stir  all  well  together  and  stew  for  five  minutes 
longer.  Then  stir  into  this  a  tablespoonful  of  sifted 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  water.  Lastly  stir  in  a  beaten 
yolk  of  egg  and  it  is  done.  Serve  with  hot  boiled  rice 
laid  around  on  the  edge  of  a  platter  and  the  chicken 
curry  in  the  center. 


1  chicken;  1  onion;  2  bay  leaves;  y2  teaspoonful  of 
white  pepper;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  3  cloves;  y2  box 
of  powdered  gelatine. 

Singe  and  draw  chicken,  place  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  boil  until  tender.    Lift  the  chicken  out  and  set 


MRS.  F.  L.  FREY. 


Jellied  Chicken. 


—  24  — 


aside  to  cool.  Then  cut  into  neat  pieces.  Take  one 
quart  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled  and 
add  the  onion,  bay  leaves,  pepper,  salt,  cloves  and  boil 
for  five  minutes.  Then  add  the  gelatine  (which  has 
been  dissolved)  and  strain.  Arrange  the  chicken  in  a 
wet  mould,  fill  with  the  stock.  Place  on  ice  to  jell. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 

Chicken  Dumplings. 

Disjoint  the  fowl  and  cook  in  about  2  quarts  of 
water  till  tender,  season  with  salt,  whole  peppers,  whole 
cloves,  (and  if  desired  a  little  nutmeg).  Make  thick 
batter  for  dumplings  as  follows: 

1  pint  flour;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  % 
teaspoonful  salt ;  2  eggs ;  enough  sweet  •  milk  to  make 
stiff  batter. 

Drop  by  tablespoonfuls  in  boiling  liquid  on  top  of 
chicken  and  boil  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

MRS.  ARNOLD  KOTT. 

Dressing  for  Turkey. 

Bread ;  fresh  pork ;  3  eggs ;  giblets ;  1  tablespoonful 
of  ginger;  salt. 

Take  bread  enough  to  fill  turkey  and  pour  boiling 
milk  or  water  over  it.  Yv'hen  thoroughly  soaked,  place 
in  a  muslin  bag,  squeeze  carefully  until  dry.  Then  add 
Y2  lb  of  fresh  pork  and  giblets  chopped  fine,  three  or 
four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
Salt  to  taste.  Mix  well.  This  dressing  should  be  as 
light  as  bread  after  it  is  cooked. 

MRS.  F.  STEIN. 


—  25  — 


Chicken  a  la  King. 

2  cup fuls  diced  ehickenmeat  (white  preferred) ;  6 
tablespoonfuls  chopped  green  peppers;  y2  teaspoonful 
salt;  3  cupfuls  rich  cream;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  5 
tablespoonfuls  olive  oil;  3  tablespoonfuls  chopped 
pimentoes ;  1'  tablespoonful  capers ;  1  can  or  iy2  cupfuls 
fresh  mushrooms;  214  tablespoonfuls  flour;  2  egg-yolks; 
paprika. 

Cook  mushrooms  five  minutes  in  the  olive  oil,  then 
add  the  mixture  ot  the  chicken,  capers,  peppers  and 
pimentoes,  and  add  a  dash  of  paprika  and  salt.  Pre- 
pare a  white  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  cream,  beat- 
ing the  two  egg-yolks  and  pouring  the  sauce  into  them 
when  it  is  done.  Add  the  chicken  mixture,  heat 
thoroughly  and  serve  either  in  individual  ramekins  or 
patti  cases,  or  on  diamond-shaped  slices  of  buttered 
toast.  MARY  LOVE. 

Haunch  of  Venison  (baked). 

Allow  all  game  to  air  from  48  to  60  hours.  Lard 
well  with  bacon  that  has  been  turned  in  salt  and  pepper. 

Rub  haunch  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  bacon, 
grease  and  butter  in  large  covered  baking-pan.  Bake 
basting  frequently.  Add  hot  water  or  soup  stock  gra- 
dually. 10  minutes  before  serving  add  14  cup  thick  sour 
cream.  If  necessary  thicken  with  small  amount  of  corn 
starch . 

MRS.  FRITZ  KNUST. 
Pressed  Chicken. 

Cut  up  the  fowls  and  place  in  a  kettle  with  a  light 
cover  so  as  to  retain  the  steam.  Add  enough  water  to 
cover  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.    Allow  it  to  cook 


—  26  — 


until  the  meat  drops  easily  from  the  bones.  Chop  fine, 
add  a  little  allspice,  put  in  a  dish  and  press,  pour  over 
it  the  remainder  of  the  stock  in  which  it  was  cooked. 
Set  in  a  cool  place  until  jellied. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  FOR  PRESSED 
CHICKEN. 

3  eggs  well  beaten;  y2  cup  of  sugar;  y2  teaspoon- 
ful  salt;  a  pinch  of  Cayenne  pepper;  y2  teaspoonful 
black  pepper;  y2  teaspoonful  mustard;  1  tablespoonful 
olive  oil;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1  cup  of  vinegar. 

Boil  until  thick. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DIETZ. 

Stuffing, 
like  Mother  used  to  make! 

Light  bread;  y2  cup  currants;  y2  cup  nuts;  1  cup 
sliced  apples;  liver,  gizzard  and  heart  of  fowls  chopped 
finely;  2  eggs;  salt  and  pepper. 

Soak  a  sufficient  quantity  of  light  bread,  wring 
dry,  add  enough  milk  or  cream  to  handle  well  with 
mixing  spoon.  Turn  in  currants,  apples,  nuts  and  the 
meat  that  has  been  previously  fried  in  butter  with  a 
suggestion  of  onion.  Mix  in  yolks  of  eggs  and  seasoning, 
add  beaten  whites  and  stuff  fowls  with  the  mixture. 

Excellent  especially  for  game. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 

Chicken  or  Turkey  Dressing. 

Gizzard,  heart  and  liver  of  fowl;  4  of  5  slices  of 
bread;  4  eggs;  1  medium-sized  onion;  2  tablespoonfuls 
flour;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  also  a  little  nutmeg  if 
liked. 


—  27  — 


Take  heart  and  gizzard  and  boil  y2  hour  adding  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Soak  bread  in  water,  squeeze  out  and 
add  eggs  to  it.  Chop  fine  the  heart,  gizzard  and  raw 
liver  with  onion.  Mix  with  bread  and  eggs,  using  the 
water  in  which  the  heart  and  gizzard  were  boiled  in 
mixing.  To  this  add  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  all  to- 
gether using  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Melt  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  when  hot 
enough  pour  in  dressing.  Fry  until  brown  then  cut 
crosswise  and  turn.  When  half  done  pour  over  a  suffi- 
cient quantity  of  chicken  gravy  at  different  times,  cover 
and  fry  slowly. 

MRS.  FEED.  WALTER. 
Roast  QvaU. 

Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  each  of  the  birds  to 
prevent  their  getting  dry.  Slit  2  pieces  of  bacon  once 
or  twice  and  tie  over  breasts  of  birds  which  should  be 
trussed  for  roasting.  Wrap  in  buttered  paper  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  30  minutes,  basting  well  and  frequently. 
For  the  last  8  minutes  remove  paper  and  bacon,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  baste  well  and 
brown.  Serve  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  rolls  of 
bacon.  Hand  Avith  it  gravy,  bread  sauce,  and  guava 
jelly. 

MISS  ZULA  MAE  HILL. 

Chicken  Fricassee. 

Put  a  chicken,  cut  into  joints,  in  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover,  add  salt  and  let  simmer  slowly  until 
tender.    Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  flour,  then 


—  28  — 


the  chicken  stock,  a  little  nutmeg  and  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  just  before  serving. 

Ribs  of  a  young  calf  can  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

MRS.  VICTOR  KEIDEL, 

Turkey  Dressing. 

%  loaf  stale  light  bread;  1  cake  of  corn  bread;  6 
boiled  eggs;  V2  pound  butter;  1  good  sized  onion  if  de- 
sired, and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Boil  neck  and  gizzard  of  the  turkey  and  take  the 
juice  to  make  up  the  dressing  then  add  a  good  sized 
potato. 

MRS.  R,  C.  LUDWIG. 

Turkey  Dressing*. 

1  lb  ground  meat;  1  grated  raw  potato;  1  oniony 
1  green  pepper;  V2  can  Chili  and  Rice;  1  tablespoon 
flour;  2  slices  cornbread;  2  eggs;  a  little  sweet  cream,^ 
pepper  and  salt. 

MRS.  JOHN  OSTROW. 


Beef  Loaf  with  Tomatoes. 


3  fb  chopped  beef;  14  lb  chopped  pork;  1  large 
onion;  1  pint  jar  or  can  of  tomatoes;  1  large  cup  of 
bread  crumbs;  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Chop  onion  fine;  add  to  chopped  meat  and  bread 
which  has  been  soaked  in  cold  water.  Mix  all  together 
with  tomatoes  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Bake 
in  loaf  pan  about  one  hour. 


2  lb  of  raw  beef  ground  fine;  %  ^  °f  sart  pork; 
3  eggs;  %  cup  cracker  crumbs;  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  onion  if  liked. 

Mold  in  loaf,  grate  crackers  over  top  and  bake. 


1'  y2  fb  round  steak ;  3  slices  bacon ;  1  grated  onion ; 
1  pint  boiling  water;  3  tablespoons  butter  or  drippings; 
1  tablespoon  browned  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  steak  in  four  inch  pieces.  Lay  on  each  a  small 
piece  of  bacon  and  onion,  roll  up,  and  tie  with  string, 
or  use  tooth-picks.  Brown  and  put  in  pan  with  gravy 
made  with  flour,  butter,  and  water.    Cook  slowly  one 


BELLE  STEBBINS. 


Beef  Loaf* 


MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 


Boneless  Birds. 


hour. 


MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 
MRS.  W.  J.  JUNG. 


—  30  — 


Cabbage  Stuffed  with  Meat. 

8  oz.  ground  beef;  3  to  4  oz.  oz  soaked  bread; 
2%  oz.  butter;  2  eggs;  salt,  nutmeg  and  pepper. 

Mix  these  ingredients  and  form  into  balls.  Then 
take  large  leaves  of  cabbage  which  have  been  scalded 
with  boiling  water  and  cut  out  the  hard  veins.  Cover 
meat  balls  with  cabbage  leaves  and  tie  together  with 
thread.  Then  boil  1  hour  adding  1  cup  of  water,  some 
butter  and  nutmeg,  take  out  cabbage  balls  and  add  a 
little  flour  to  the  gravy  and  pour  over  the  balls. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 
Mutton  Stew. 
2  lb  mutton  chops;  2  tablespoonfuls  flour;  lard, 
water,  allspice ;  cloves,  pepper  and  salt ;  a  few  bay  leaves 
and  one  onion. 

Fry  chops  in  lard  until  brown.  Remove  from  pan, 
then  add  wtaer,  flour,  and  seasoning,  and  cotk  to 
smooth  gravy.   Pour  over  chops  and  serve  at  once. 

MRS.  RICHARD  HENKE. 
Stuffed  Green  Peppers. 
Cut  off  tops  of  sweet  green  peppers,  remove  seeds. 
Take  equal  parts  of  cold  chopped  meat  and  slightly 
moistened  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  finely  chopped 
tomato,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  as  well  as  a 
generous  piece  of  butter.  Fill  peppers,  place  in  a  pan 
with  a  little  water  and  butter.  Bake  slowly  until  done. 

MRS.  TEMPLE  D.  SMITH. 
Meat  Loaf. 

1  fb  lean  beef;  y2  lb  pork  or  mutton;  1  cup  of 
bread  crumbs;  2  green  peppers,  chopped  up;  1  onion;  1 
egg;  1  tablespoonful  salt. 


—  31'  — 


Grind  up  the  meat,  mix  in  salt,  peppers,  bread 
crumbs,  onion  and  egg.  Cover  with  the  following 
sauce. 

2  cups  tomato  juice;  2  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch; 
4  tablespoonfuls  shortening;  1  tablespoonful  salt. 

Bake  one  hour.  This  recipe  is  sufficient  for  six 
people. 

MRS.  OTTO  EVERS. 
Meat  Olives. 

Flank  steaks;  bacon  (sliced);  onion,  chopped;  % 
cup  toasted  bread  crumbs;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Split  steaks  lengthwise,  cut  into  pieces  5x3  in., 
place  slice  of  bacon  and  onion  on  each,  season  to  taste, 
sprinkle  with  crumbs,  roll  up  and  tie  with  thread  or 
skewer  with  tooth  picks. 

Brown  meat  rolls  in  half  lard  and  half  fat,  cover 
with  boiling  soup  stock  or  water  and  simmer  over  slow 
fire  an  hour  and  a  half.  The  meat  must  be  tender  and 
the  gravy  rich  and  brown. 

MRS.  H.  F.  RANSLEBEN. 

A  Good  Steak. 

1  lb  of  steak;  1  egg;  flour;  pepper  and  salt. 

One  pound  of  steak  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Dip  in  well  beaten  egg,  then  in  flour  and  fry  at  once 
in  hot  lard  and  butter  mixed  to  a  light  brown. 

MRS.  F.  STEIN. 

Scalloped  Sweetbreads. 

Soak  sweetbreads  in  salt  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Boil  until  well  done,  then  remove  skins  and  small  pipes 
and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Into  a  buttered  pudding  dish 


—  32  — 


put  a  layer  of  rolled  crackers,  then  a  layer  of  sweet- 
breads until  dish  is  full,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Strain 
the  water  the  sweetbreads  were  boiled  in,  add  milk  to 
make  enough  liquid  to  cover  the  crackers  and  sweet- 
breads. Dot  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  a  nice  brown. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYER. 

Planked  Steak. 

Have  choice  sirloin  steak  cut  almost  two  inches 
thick,  and  cut  through  edge  to  prevent  curling.  Heat 
oven  eight  or  ten  minutes,  and  set  plank  in  upper  oven 
to  heat,  while  meat  is  broiling  beneath  flame.  Brown 
steak  quickly  on  each  side,  then  reduce  flame  and  finish 
cooking  more  slowly.  Place  meat  on  the  plank,  season 
well  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  creamed  with  lemon 
juice,  and  minced  parsley,  garnish  with  potato  border 
and  small  stuffed  tomatoes  pimentoes  or  green  peppers 
and  cress.    Serve  piping  hot. 

MRS.  FELIX  W.  MAIER. 

Pickled  Meat. 

2  fb  of  yellow  sugar ;  5  lb  of  salt ;  4  oz.  of  saltpeter ; 
14  quarts  of  water. 

Cook  slowly,  until  brine  will  carry  an  egg.  When 
cold,  pour  the  brine  over  the  meat. 

MRS.  WM.  WEYRICH. 

Sliced  Tongue. 

Boil  the  tongue  in  about  2  quarts  of  water  until 
tender.  Remove  from  liquid,  skin  and  cut  into  slices, 
melt  y2  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  pan,  add  half  an  onion 
•and  fry  over  slow  fire  until  yellow.    Add  the  boiling 


—  33  — 


liquid  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  juice  of  one  lemon, 
half  a  tablespoon  of  sugar  or  more,  and  half  a  teaspoon  of 
flour  mixed  with  a  little  water.  Now  add  the  sliced 
tongue  and  boil  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

MRS.  ARNOLD  KOTT. 

Veal  Loaf. 

3  lb  of  veal;  seasonings;  and  gelatine. 

Boil  3  pounds  of  lean  veal  in  enough  water  to 
cover  it  well.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  boil  slowly,  until 
the  meat  falls  from  the  bones.  Take  out  the  meat  and 
set  aside  to  cool.  To  the  liquid  in  which  the  meat  was 
cooked,  add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  a  few  cloves,  two 
bay  leaves,  a  little  celery  salt  or  seed,  a  few  mustard 
seeds  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Cook  the  liquid 
about  y2  hour  longer  with  the  seasoning,  then  add  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine,  (dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water),  and  strain.  Arrange  the  chopped  meat  in  a  wet 
mold,  and  pour  the  liquid  over  it.  Let  stand  until  the 
next  day,  when  it  may  be  turned  out  on  a  flat  dish  and 
sliced.  When  serving  garnish  with  parsley  and  sliced 
lemon  or  sliced  tomatoes. 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 

White  Fricassee  of  Tongue. 

Tongue  boiled  in  salt  water,  diced  fine.  Melt  a 
sufficient  quantity  of  butter  browned  slightly,  one  chop- 
ped onion  and  a  tablespoon  flour,  add  the  boiled  down 
liquid  from  the  tongue.  Add  slices  of  lemon,  from 
which  the  seed  have  been  carefully  removed,  mace 
white  pepper  to  taste  and  %  glass  white  wine  and  put 
the  diced  tongue  into  the  liquid,  boiling  both  together 


—  34  — 


over  a  very  slow  fire.  Serve  with  small  round  meat 
dumplings  that  have  been  boiled  in  salt  water  or  soup 
stock.  The  sauce  may  be  thickened  with  the  yolks  of 
eggs  before  serving  which  greatly  improves  both  taste 
and  appearance. 

MRS.  F.  MORGAN. 

Pickled  Meat. 

To  100  lb  meat,  allow  8  lb  salt;  %  lb  sugar  (Kan- 
dis-Zucker) ;  2  oz.  saltpeter;  32  quarts  water. 
Boil  and  then  allow  to  cool. 

The  meat,  cut,  is  placed  into  the  barrel  or  crock; 
the  cooled  brine  poured  over.  Small  boards  weighted 
with  stones  laid  on  top  to  keep  meat  well  under  brine. 
The  pieces  reserved  for  smoking  should  be  removed 
after  two  weeks  while  the  rest  may  remain  in  pickle 
until  used.  From  time  to  time  pieces  of  beef  or  tongue 
may  be  placed  in  same  brine  without  detriment  to  taste. 

MRS.  BANNOWSKY. 

Lambs  Chops  with  Green  Peppers* 

4  large  lamb  chops,  iy2  cupfuls  stock,  2  small 
onions,  minced  1  teaspoon  curry-powder,  2  green  pep- 
pers, chopped,  iy2  tablespoon  corn  flour,  1  cupful 
canned  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper. 

(Cut  chops  from  leg  of  lamb;  4  chops  will  weigh 
about  iy2  lb). 

Fry  the  onions  and  chopped  peppers  in  three  (3) 
tablespoons  of  lamb  fat,  until  tender.  Add  the  tomatoes, 
stock  and  seasonings  to  taste.  Thicken  with  flour 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.    Broil  chops  slightly, 


—  35  — 


season,  lay  them  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  over  the  sauce, 
and  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  with  rice 
timbles.   The  above  recipe  will  serve  four. 

MRS.  ALFRED  P.  C.  PETSCH. 

Curry  Salad  Dressing. 

y2  teaspoon  curry  powder,  1'  tablespoon  tarragon 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  6  tablespoons  olive  oil  or  salad 
oil,  y2  teaspoon  onion  salt,  ^4  teaspoon  pepper. 

Mix  thoroughly  all  dry  ingredients  and  oil,  add 
slowly  the  the  vinegar  to  thin.  This  is  especially  good 
with  cold  fish. 

MRS.  ALFRED  P.  C.  PETSCH. 

French  Steak. 

Take  a  flank  steak,  remove  the  fat  and  score  the 
steak  by  cutting  lightly  crosswise  with  knife.  Put  a 
piece  of  fat  in  one  end  and  roll  the  steak,  fastening 
with  sticks  an  inch  apart.  Then  cut  in  inch  slices, 
leaving  a  stick  in  each  slice.  Have  broiler  hot  and 
greased.  Sear  one  side  and  then  the  other.  Let  cook 
twenty-five  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
melted  butter.    Serve  with  parsley  garnishments. 

MRS.  WILLIE  MARSCHAL. 

Swiss  Steak. 

1  round  steak  iy2  or  2  inches  thick,  1  small  can  of 
tomatoes,  1  onion,  a  little  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 

Take  the  steak  and  beat  it  thoroughly  with  a  plate, 
then  sift  flour  over  steak  and  beat  it  in,  then  chop  an 
onion  fine  and  beat  it  in  well,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
steak  in  a  pan  containing  a  tablespoon  of  hot  lard,  place 
in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  for  three  quarters  of  an 


—  36  — 


hour,  remove  from  the  oven  and  pour  over  the  steak  a 
can  of  tomatoes,  add  more  salt  and  pepper  and  put  back 
in  the  oven  and  let  brown  a  little  more,  then  serve  at 
once.  The  juice  of  the  meat  and  tomatoes  makes  a  delir 
cious  sauce. 

MES.  HAEEY  M.  HAEEINGTON. 

Tarn  ale  Loaf. 

Two  ib  ground  beef;  3  cups  of  corn  meal;  2|3  cup 
of  lard;  3  tablespoons  of  flour;  1/3  cup  of  garlic;  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  commino  seed;  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  chili  pepper;  2  quarts  of  water;  salt  to  taste. 

Pour  one  cup  of  boiling  water  over  commino  seed 
and  set  aside  to  steep.  Put  lard  in  stew-pan,  when  hot 
add  the  ground  meat,  stir  until  it  begins  to  brown,  then 
add  flour  to  thicken,  chili  pepper,  salt,  garlic,  and  tht 
water  from  the  commino  seed,  then  add  two  quarts  of 
plain  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  boil  for  two  hours. 
Then  add  enough  boiling  water  to  corn  meal  (to  which 
has  been  added  teaspoonful  of  salt)  to  make  a  thick 
paste.  Put  a  layer  of  this  paste  into  a  baking  dish,  then 
a  layer  of  the  meat,  then  a  layer  of  the  meal  paste  and 
so  on  until  dish  is  filled  to  about  two  inches  of  the  top, 
lastly  pour  some  of  the  chili  sauce  over  the  top,  saving 
some  of  the  sauce  to  serve  with  the  loaf,  put  dish  in 
oven  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes.    Serve  at  once. 

MES.  HAEEY  M.  HAEEINGTON. 

Turkish  Tongue. 

1  fresh  beef  tongue;  %  lb  raisins;  y2  ^  dates;  1 
carrot;  1  sweet  pepper;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  onion;  4 
tablespoons  butter. 


—37  — 


Wash  tongue,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
slowly  for  2  hours.  Skin  and  tie  in  shape.  Put  lump  of 
butter  into  the  kettle,  add  pepper,  chopped  onions,  and 
peeled  carrot,  cut  in  fancy  shape.  Shake  this  over  fire, 
until  slightly  brown.  Put  in  tongue,  raisins,  and  dates ; 
add  one  quart  of  the  water  in  which  the  tongue  was 
boiled.  Cover  and  simmer  gently  2  hours  longer.  Serve 
tongue  in  center  of  dish  with  vegetables  and  fruit 
around  it. 

MRS.  WM.  KUENEMANN. 
Tamale  Pie. 

2  cups  com  meal;  2y2  teaspoon  salt;  6  cups  boiling 
water.  Cook  a  good  stiff  mush,  line  your  pan  and  keep 
enough  to  put  on  a  top  crust. 

FILLING:  2  good  sized  onions;  1  lb  hamburger 
steak;  2  cups  tomatoes;  3  teaspoons  chili  powder;  4 
green  peppers. 

Brown  onions  in  lard,  add  meat,  fry  until  red  color 
disappears,  add  tomatoes,  pepper,  salt  and  chili  powder. 
Bake  40  minutes  or  till  brown. 

MRS.  ALBERT  KOENNECKE. 

Beafsteak  Pie. 

%  lb  round  flank  steak  ,cut  in  small  pieces  of  uni- 
form size;  1  tablespoonful  flour;  3  cupfuls  hot  water; 
!/4  teaspoonful  pepper;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  10  small 
onions;  3  medium-sized  potatoes,  diced. 

CRUST:  1  cupful  flour;  iy2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  *4  teaspoonful  saltj  1  tablespoonful  fat;  *4 
cupful  milk. 


—  38  — 


Remove  the  fat  from  the  meat  and  fry  out.  Sprinkle 
meat  with  flour  and  brown  in  fat  and  cook  till  partially 
done.  Add  the  seasonings,  onions,  potatoes,  and  hot 
water.  Continue  to  cook  in  covered  fryingpan  or  put 
into  a  bakingdish,  cover,  and  cook  slowly  until  the  meat 
is  done.  Make  a  crust  of  the  above  ingredients.  Roll 
into  one  sheet  large  enough  for  top  of  pie.  Bake  15 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

MRS.  VIDA  G.  NEWBERRY. 

Veal  Roast  with  Tomatoes. 
A  famous  Southern  Dish. 

Wash  a  fresh  tender  roast  of  veal  weighing  about 
4  lb.  Lard  it  well  and  sprinkle  with  2  teaspoons  salt 
and  y2  teaspoon  pepper.  Dredge  with  flour  on  both 
sides;  lay  in  a  rather  small  deep  baking  pan  with  boil- 
ing water  enough  to  nearly  cover  it  and  roast  for  1 
hour,  basting  with  gravy  every  ten  minutes  .  Then  turn 
on  other  side  and  spread  over  the  roast  1  pint  of  toma- 
toes, peeled  and  sliced,  2  onions,  2  sprigs  parsley  chop- 
ped fine,  and  two  or  three  whole  green  peppers.  Baste 
for  another  hour  every  10  minutes,  add  boiling  water  if 
needed.  Serve  hot  with  its  own  gravy  of  which  there 
should  be  1  pint. 

MRS.  0.  B.  WITTE. 


—  39  — 


MACARONI,  RICE,  PANCAKES, 
EGGS,  POTATOES,  ETC. 


3fi 


Cheese  Soufflee. 

1  cupful  of  cheese;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  y2 
cupful  of  sweet  milk;  1  cupful  of  hot  milk;  4  eggs;, 
y2  teaspoonful  salt;  dash  of  pepper.  (  1 

Mix  the  flour  and  cold  milk  well;  add  this  to  the 
hot  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  add  cheese,  stir  until 
cheese  melts.  Add  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten;  remove 
from  fire,  add  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper.  Stir  in  carefully 
the  whites  well  beaten.   Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


Cheese  Corn  Soufflee. 

3  cupful  grated  cheese;  1  cupful  canned  corn;  3 
eggs;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  1  tablespoonful  of  flour; 
1  cup  sweet  milk. 

Cook  together  the  butter  and  flour;  pour  upon  it 
the  milk  and  stir  until  smooth  and  thickened;  add  the 
cheese,  and  when  this  is  blended,  add  the  corn,  chopped 
or  ground  and  drained  from  the  liquid.  Put  in  the 
weel-beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  dish  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half 
an  hour. 


MRS.  A.  B.  WILLIAMSON. 


MRS.  J.  T.  ESTILL. 


—  40  — 


Ham  Soufflee. 

1  cup  of  cold  chopped  ham;  y2  cup  of  bread 
crumbs ;  1  small  onion,  a  bit  of  parsley  cut  fine. 

Pepper,  salt  to  suit  taste.  Beat  3  eggs,  adding  1 
pint  of  milk,  mix  all  together.  Bake  25  minutes.  Serve 
with  tomato  sauce. 

MISS  META  DIETZ. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

One  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs;  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  mustard;  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  boiled 
ham  or  chicken;  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  one  table- 
spoonful  of  pickles;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Remove  the  shells  and  cut  lengthwise,  take  out 
yolks  and  rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  mustard  and 
butter,  then  add  the  ham  or  meat,  salt  and  pepper  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Fill  the  hollowed  whites  with  this 
mixture. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 

Macaroni  and  Cheese, 

Break  1  box  of  macaroni  into  small  pieces,  put  in 
well  salted  boiling  water  and  boil  20  to  25  minutes  stir- 
ring frequently.  When  done  drain,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
butter,  3  oz.  grated  cheese  and  enough  milk  to  about 
cover,  mix  well  and  heat  ;  then  pour  into  a  buttered 
dish,  sprinkle  a  layer  of  cheese  on  top  and  bake  for 
about  y2  hour.    Serve  at  once. 

MRS.  A.  WEHMEYEK. 


—  41  — 


Spanish  Macaroni. 

2  slices  bacon;  1  pint  macaroni;  1  pint  stewed 
tomatoes;  1  cup  cold  cooked  meat;  1  or  2  onions;  1 
green  sweet  pepper;  butter  to  grease  pan;  milk  or  soup 
stock. 

Fry  onions,  bacon  and  pepper.  Fill  pan  a  layer  of 
macaroni  and  a  layer  of  tomatoes  mixed  with  the  other 
ingredients. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 

Mexican  Rice. 

1  cup  rice;  2  tablespoons  butter  or  lard;  1  table- 
spoon chili  powder;  y2  cup  chopped  tomatoes;  1  table- 
spoon minced  onion;  salt  to  taste. 

Put  butter  or  lard  in  a  skillet,  add  the  well  washed 
rice  and  brown,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  When 
brown  add  the  onion,  tomato,  chili  powder  and  salt. 
Then  add  boiling  water  enough  to  cook  the  .  rice 
thoroughly. 

MRS.  HOWARD  HONAN. 

Mexican  Rice  (sopa  seca.) 

1  teaspoon  lard;  1  cup  rice;  4  tomatoes,  medium 
size ;  salt ;  Cayenne ;  onion  juice  to  taste. 

Heat  to  the  smoking  point  a  heaping  teaspoon  of 
lard,  throw  in  rice  (dry)  and  stir  while  it  browns  gent- 
ly. Have  tomatoes  ready  peeled  and  cut,  add  these 
quickly  with  the  seasoning,  stir  until  tomatoes  soften, 
add  enough  water  to  swell  rice  and  cook  until  soft  on 
a  slow  fire. 

Serve  with  chili  and  beans,  or  fried  sausage. 

MRS.  HERM.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 


—  42  — 


Quick  Rice. 

To  1  cup  of  washed  rice  add  4  cups  boiling  water 
and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  pan  and  bake  in  oven  40 
minutes. 

MRS.  HOWARD  HONAX. 

Browned  Rice  with  Chili. 

Wash  y2  cup  of  rice  and  lay  on  cloth  to  dry,  then 
melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  put  the  rice  in  stirring 
constantly  until  a  nice  brown,  pour  over  enough  water 
to  cover  well,  and  let  simmer  until  soft,  adding  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of  chili  powder. 

MRS.  D.  A.  RILEY. 

German  Milk  Rice. 

1  cup  washed  rice;  6  times  quantity  water;  1  pt. 
rich  milk;  y2  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  yolks 
of  eggs. 

Boil  rice  until  tender  but  grains  are  still  whole, 
drain  off  water,  add  milk,  sugar  and  butter.  When 
done,  remove  from  fire,  and  carefully  beat  in  yolks  of 
eggs.  Turn  into  dish  and  sprinkle  liberally  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon. 

MRS.  H.  F.  RANSLEBEN. 
Potato  Balls. 

2  cups  mashed  potatoes;  1  teaspoon  butter;  3  yolks 
of  eggs ;  y2  cup  of  milk ;  2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour. 

Mix  ingredients  into  a  soft  but  firm  dough,  scoop 
up  with  teaspoon,  drop  into  deep  fat  and  brown  slowly 
and  evenly.    Very  fine. 

MRS.  H.  F.  RANSLEBEN. 


—  43  — 


Pan  Cakes. 

1  cup  of  meal;  1  cup  of  flour;  a  pinch  of  salt;  1 
cup  of  sour  milk;  %  teaspoon  of  soda;  2  well  beaten 
eggs. 

Sift  together  corn  meal,  flour  and  salt.  Then  add 
milk  to  which  soda  has  been  added  and  lastly  the  eggs 
well  beaten. 

MRS.  0.  W.  STRIEGLER. 
Hot  Cakes. 

Take  y±  of  an  yeast  cake,  enough  water  and  flour 
to  make  a  soft  sponge,  let  this  rise  over  night.  When 
ready  to  use,  add  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk.  Beat 
well,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  JOHN  OSTROW. 

First  Class  Pan  Cake. 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  y2  cup  milk,  a  pinch 
of  salt. 

Beat  eggs  10  minutes,  slowly  add  the  flour,  then 
the  milk  and  salt.  Heat  a  little  butter  and  lard  in  a 
frying  pan,  drop  batter  in,  and  set  in  oven  for  half  an 
hour.   Sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar  and  serve. 

MRS.  JOHN  OSTROW. 

Pilau. 

Boil  a  cupful  of  rice  in  a  pint  of  mutton-stock  which 
has  been  skimmed  and  seasoned  with  onion,  tomato,  salt 
and  cayenne.  When  the  rice  is  soft  and  has  soaked  up 
all  the  liquid  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter. 


—  44  — 


Mince  cold  mutton  or  lamb  until  you  have  a  cupful; 
heat  a  cupful  of  gravy,  season  veil  and  thicken  with 
browned  flour,  then  stir  in  the  minced  meat,  and  boil  up 
once.  Pour  upon  a  heated  platter  and  arrange  the  rice 
like  a  fence  around  it.  Pilau  is  even  better  when  made 
with  chicken-stock  and  meat  instead  of  mutton. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER, 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Boil  6  large  potatoes  in  salt  water,  mash  and  mix 
in  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  litte  parsley,  make  into 
cone  shape,  beat  the  white  of  an  egg,  first  roll  cones 
in  egg  and  then  roll  in  brown  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  but- 
ter until  nicely  browned. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Potato  Dumpling's. 

( Rohe  Kartoff  el-Kloesse. ) 
5  or  6  medium  sized  potatoes  grated  and  pressed 
fairly  dry;  the  mass  is  then  moistened  with  boiling  milk 
and  made  into  a  dough  not  too  thin  but  yet  not  firm 
enough  to  form  into  balls.  Add  salt  to  taste  and  mix  in 
bread  croutons  cut  into  cubes.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
boiling  salt-water  and  allow  half  an  hour  after  the  last 
one  is  in.  Remove  from  water  carefully  without  break- 
ing and  serve  at  once. 

MRS.  CLARA  BITTNER. 

Potato  Dumplings. 

Cream  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut,  add  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  saucer  full  of  bread  crumbs,  one 
saucer  full  of  grated  boiled  potatoes  (which  should  not 


—  45  — 


be  watery),  lemon  peeling,  nutmeg  and  salt,  and  lastly 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Drop  by  small 
spoonfuls,  into  boiling  water,  and  boil  about  10  minutes. 

MRS.  HILMAR  WEBER, 
Stuffed  Potatoes. 
Bake  7  good  sized  potatoes.  When  done,  cut  off  a 
lengthwise  slice;  scoop  out  potatoes  with  a  spoon,  then 
mash.  Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  y2  cupful  milk,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Refill  skins  with  this  mixture.  Pile  lightly  and  bake 
until  potatoes  are  puffed  and  brown. 

MRS.  FELIX  KLAERNER. 


/ 


/ 


—  46  — 


Vegetables 


Asparagus. 


Scrape  the  stems  of  the  asparagus  lightly  but  very 
clean,  throw  them  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  scraped; 
tie  into  bunches  of  equal  size,  and  drop  into  plenty  of 
boiling  water,  well  salted.  It  usually  cooks  in  20  or  30 
minutes.  In  a  saucepan,  mix  a  tablespoonful  of  slightly 
browned  flour,  with  a  large  spoonful  of  butter,  add 
enough  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  asparagus  was  boiled 
to  make  a  thick  sauce,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  cream.  Add  the  asparagus, 
and  let  simmer  a  minute,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


1  bunch  asparagus;  1  pint  green  peas;  4  eggs;  sea- 
soning; about  1  pint  Golden  Sauce. 

Cut  asparagus,  after  removing  the  tough  portions, 
into  1  inch  length,  and  cook  until  tender.  Also  cook 
peas,  and  hard  cook  the  eggs,  which  should  then  be 
sliced.  Combine  lightly  the  asparagus  and  peas  and 
season  with  1  teaspoon  salt.  Place  on  a  hot  platter,  and 
pour  over  the  Golden  Sauce  made  while  the  vegetables 
are  cooking.  Garnish  with  hard  cooked  eggs,  and  small 
toast  points,  on  each  of  which  place  a  narrow  strip  of 
green  or  red  sweet  pepper  radiating  outward. 


MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 


Asparagus  Parfoit. 


—  47  — 


GOLDEN  SAUCE. 
Melt  in  a  sauce  pan  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  2 
tablespoons  flour,  and  cook  until  bubbling.  Add  gra- 
dually 1  pint  milk.  Cook  until  smooth  and  thickened; 
then  season  with  1%  teaspoon  salt,  *4  teaspoon  pepper, 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Remove  from  stove,  and 
add  well  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  stirring  rapidly. 

MRS.  ALFRED  P.  C.  PETSCH. 
Cucumbers. 

Remove  the  seed  of  4  large  cucumbers,  cut  into  dice 
and  cook  about  %  hour  in  y2  cup  water,  %  Cup  vine- 
gar and  CUP  sugar.  Squash  may  be  cooked  the  same 
way. 

MRS.  HILMAR  WEBER. 
Fried  Cauliflower. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  until  half  done.  Mix  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  then  add 
water  enough  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Add  salt  to  taste 
and  two  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Dip  each  bran  h  of 
cauliflower  into  the  mixture,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  When 
done,  take  out  with  a  skimmer,  turn  into  a  colander, 
dust  with  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

MRS.  JOE  STEIN. 
Celery  Croquettes. 

Mince  the  white  part  of  the  celery  and  mix  well 
with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs;  to  a  quart  of 
the  mixture  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  heaping  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  if  the  moisture  from 
the  celery  is  not  sufficient,  add  a  little  milk.  Shape  in 
cones,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

MRS.  B.  L.  ENDERLE. 


Stewed  Carrots, 

1  qt.  of  carrots;  1  cupful  of  onion;  salt  and  butter 
Scrape  carrots  and  cut  into  small  squares  enough 
for  one  quart;  cook  in  salt  water  until  tender.  Drain. 
Soak,  one  small  cupful  of  onion  cut  fine,  in  salt  water, 
for  ten  minutes.  Drain.  Fry  onions  in  two  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  to  a  light  brown,  add  small 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  with  carrots  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes. 

MRS.  F.  STEIN. 

Baked  Cabbage. 

Drop  well-washed  cabbage  leaf  by  leaf  into  boiling 
water  and  boil  20  minutes,  adding  a  tablespoon  oi  salt 
to  a  quart  of  water. 

Drain,  chop  finely,  arrange  in  a  baking  dish,  add 
a  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  sauce  made  of  milk  thick- 
ened with  corn  starch  and  a  piece  of  butter. 

Bake  15  minutes. 

MRS.  0.  EVERS. 

Filled  Cabbage. 

Take  a  small  head  of  cabbage,  cut  fine,  boil  tender 
in  salt  water,  drain;  add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  pepper, 
salt,  a  small  onion  and  2  cups  soaked  light  bread.  If 
too  thin,  add  flour.  Place  this  in  a  cabbage  leaf,  tie 
in  a  white  rag  and  boil  in  salt  water  for  1  hour. 

Serve  with  browned  butter. 

MRS.  L.  HENZE. 
Creamed  Cabbage. 

Chop  cabbage  to  make  two  quarts.  Cover  with  cold 
water,  soak  one  hour;  drain;  cover  with  boiling  water, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  uncover- 


—  49  — 


ed;  drain  again.  Rub  together  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  y2  pint  of  milk;  stir 
until  it  boils.  Season  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and 
pepper,  add  the  cabbage,  heat  carefully,  and  serve. 

MISS  ALMA  SCHUCH. 

Baked  Green  Corn. 

To  two  cups  of  cooked  green  corn  cut  from  cob  and 
chopped  fine,  add  2  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  Y$  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter  and  2  cups  of  scalded  milk. 

Mix  well  and  turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish.  Bake 
until  firm,  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  G.  L.  STEBBINS. 

Broiled  Egg-Plant. 

Peel  and  cut  into  rather  thin  slices  and  lay  in  salt- 
ed ice-water  for  an  hour;  spread  upon  a  soft  towel 
and  cover  with  another,  patting  and  pressing  the  slices 
until  they  are  entirely  dry.  Leave  them  for  10  minutes 
in  a  mixture  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon;  sprinkle  then  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  broil  quickly  upon  a  wire  broiler.  Twelve  mi- 
nutes should  cook  both  sides. 

MRS.  AD.  CRENWELGE. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

4  sweet  green  peppers;  1  cup  cooked  rice;  1  cup 
cold  minced  chicken;  2  tablespoons  finely  cut  celery; 
onion  juice;  pepper  and  salt;  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter;  i/o  cup  tomatoes. 


—  50  — 


Split  peppers  in  half,  remove  seeds  and  ribs.  Mix 
the  ingredients,  fill  into  peppers,  grate  cheese  over  top 
and  bake  in  pan  with  little  water. 

MKS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 

Stuffed  Egg-Plant. 

Parboil  a  good  sized  egg-plant  for  about  10  minutes, 
and  throw  at  once  into  cold  salted  water.  Leave  there 
for  an  hour.  Cut  into  halves,  lengthwise,  and  scoop  out 
seeds  and  pulp,  leaving  the  walls  half  an  inch  thick. 
Run  the  pulp  through  a  food-chopper;  add  to  it  about 
a  cup  of  minced  chicken  (or  any  kind  of  meat).  Add 
salt  and  pepper  and  %  cupful  of  fine  dry  bread  crumbs. 
Fill  the  halves  with  this  stuffing  and  tie  together  with 
a  string.  Put  into  a  baking-dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  water  and  butter,  or  the  same  of  stock;  cover  closely 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour.  Remove 
the  string  and  serve. 

MRS.  WM.  CRENWELGE. 
Goulash. 

3  large  onions;  1  can  tomatoes;  1  teaspoon  paprika; 
8  medium  sized  potatoes;  1  coffeespoon  salt;  2  lb 
rump  steak. 

Chop  onions  and  brown  in  lard  or  a  good-sized  piece 
of  bacon,  add  paprika  and  salt  and  when  well  thinned, 
add  the  meat  cut  into  small  pieces.  Let  this  fry  to  a 
crisp  and  light  brown  in  color,  add  3  large  tomatoes  or 
a  pound  of  canned.  Simmer  slowly  until  half  done, 
then  add  potatoes  cut  into  cubes.  Add  water  if  ne- 
cessary and  boil  until  gravy  is  well  thickened. 

MRS.  CLARA  BITTNER. 


—  51  — 


Gumbo. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  6  tomatoes;  6  to  8  okras;  1 
onion;  2  chili  peppers;  a  little  cabbage. 

Add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  a  little 
water.    Stew  until  tender. 

MRS.  H.  W.  BRAEUTIGAM. 

Southern  Gumbo. 

Fry  in  cubes  of  bacon  two  tablespoons  of  rice  until 
well  browned,  add  small  onion,  sliced.  Add  to  this  1 
qt.  sliced  tomatoes ;  1  qt.  okra ;  1  pod  green  pepper. 

Cook  one  hour. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MAIER. 

Kohl-Rabi  a  la  Creme. 

Peel  and  quarter  and  then  cut  them  in  thin  slices 
and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water. 

Dissolve  an  ounce  of  butter,  add  to  it  a  little  flour, 
salt,  nutmeg  and  white  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  the  yolk 
of  one  egg,  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  beat  it  into 
the  butter.  When  thick  add  the  vegetable  and  serve. 
The  leaves  when  tender  are  boiled  and  served  as  spinach. 

MRS.  B.  L.  ENDERLE. 

Fried  Okra. 

Boil  okra  in  salt  water,  adding  2  teaspoonfuls  vine- 
gar, cut  lengthwise,  dust  with  pepper  and  salt,  dredge 
in  cornmeal  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter  until  delicately 
browned. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 

Baked  Potatoes  and  Herring. 

3  lb  potatoes;  2  or  3  salt  herrings;  3  yolks  and  one 
e&B';  V±  quart  sour  cream. 


—  52  — 


Parboil  potatoes,  slice.  Let  herrings  soak  in  milk 
two  or  three  hours  to  remove  excessive  salt.  Bone  care- 
fully and  chop.  Place  alternately  in  a  baking  dish, 
layers  of  potatoes  and  herring.  Beat  cream  and  eggs 
well,  pour  over  potatoes  and  herring  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1  to  iy2  hours. 

MRS.  JOHN  MAERZ. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Select  large  tomatoes  of  even  size,  scoop  out  a 
small  place  and  fill  with  either  of  the  following  dres- 
sings. 

DRESSING  No.  1.:  Fry  a  small  finely  chopped 
onion  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter ;  when  nearly  done  add 
some  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  a  little  milk  or 
water;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  little  butter 
on  each  and  bake. 

DRESSING  No.  2:  Chop  very  fine  cold  meat  or 
fowl  of  any  kind  with  a  very  small  piece  of  bacon;  fry 
a  finely  chopped  onion  in  a  little  butter,  when  nearly 
done  add  the  meat,  some  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and 
salt;  cook  a  minute,  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  fill  the 
tomatoes;  place  them  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs  add  small  bits  of  butter. 

May  be  used  as  a  garnish  or  served  by  itself. 

MISS  META  DIETZ. 

Spinach  with  Cheese  Sauce. 

Wash  the  spinach  thoroughly  and  put  in  kettle  of 
boiling  water. 

Add  a  tablespoon  of  salt  and  cook  fifteen  minutes 
without  a  cover. 


—  53  — 


SAUCE 

2  tablespoons  shortening;  2  tablespoons  flour;  1 
cup  milk;  y2  teaspoon  salt;  few  grains  pepper. 

Melt  the  shortening  and  blend  the  flour,  salt  and 
pepper  with  it.  Let  thicken  in  double-boiler  with  the 
milk,  then  add  the  cup  of  grated  cheese  and  stir  until 
melted. 

MES.  WM.  MARS CH ALL. 
Spinach. 

Soak  1  peck  of  spinach  in  cold  water  1  hour;  cover 
with  boiling  water,  let  boil  until  tender,  about  30  minu- 
tes, take  up  and  press  all  the  water  out  of  it.  Place  2/3 
cup  of  butter  in  sauce-pan,  let  boil  up  and  mix  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  in  it ;  put  in  spinach, 
let  cook  until  butter  is  taken  up,  season  with  salt  and 
black  pepper  to  taste,  put  in  y2  cup  sweet  cream,  let  it 
boil  up  once,  and  serve  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 

MRS.  W.  C.  CARTER. 
Spinach. 

Wash  the  spinach  3  or  4  times,  pick  carefully,  and 
boil  until  tender.  Drain  well,  and  chop  fine.  Now  put 
about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  bacon  into  a 
saucepan,  add  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  slightly  browned 
flour,  and  a  small  onion  chopped  fine.  Add  the  spinach 
and  about  one  cupful  of  soup  stock,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste.  Let  boil  up,  and  serve.  Garnish  with  hard 
boiled  eggs* 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER, 
Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Melt  1  cup  sugar  with  y2  cup  butter.  Boil  medium- 
sized  potatoes,  when  nearly  done,  peel,  slice  and  place 


—  54  — 


in  layers  in  a  shallow  pan,  putting  a  tablespoon  of  the 
melted  butter  on  each  slice.  Add  4  tablespoons  hot  water 
and  bake  %  hour,  basting  often. 

MRS.  F.  J.  MAIER. 

Marshmallow  Potatoes. 

5  medium-sized  potatoes,  boiled  in  jackets.  When 
done  peel  and  mash,  then  add  the  following  ingredients : 

1  cupful  milk,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste,  and  1  teaspoonful 
baking  powder.  Put  butter  size  of  an  egg  on  top  and 
bake  in  a  baking  dish.  When  done,  cover  with  marsK- 
mallows,  return  to  oven  to  brown,  then  serve  hot. 

MRS.  FRITZ  LUCKENBACH,  Menard. 

Spanish  Tomatoes. 

6  good  sized  tomatoes;  2  or  3  large  sweet  peppers; 

2  onions;  y2  cup  milk;  1  tablespoon  flour;  1  tablespoon- 
ful  butter. 

Cut  peppers  and  onions  in  small  pieces  and  cook  in 
enough  salt  water  to  cover  them. 

When  done  add  tomatoes  which  have  been  cooked 
in  another  vessel;  let  all  cook  together  for  a  few  minu- 
tes, put  in  a  pinch  of  soda,  let  mixture  boil  up  well,  then 
add  milk  and  flour  beaten  to  a  smooth  paste.  Just  be- 
fore removing  from  stove,  put  in  salt  and  butter,  serve 
very  hot. 

MRS.  TEMPLE  D.  SMITH. 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes. 

12  tomatoes;  1  small  cabbage  head;  1  medium  sized 
onion ;  1  cupful  of  sweet  cream ;  bread  crumbs,  butter, 
pepper,  sugar  and  salt. 


—  55  — 


From  the  blossom  end  of  smooth,  ripe  and  solid 
tomatoes,  cut  a  thin  slice;  scoop  out  the  pulp  without 
breaking  the  rind  surrounding  it.  Chop  cabbage  and 
onions  fine,  mix  with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  tomato 
pulp;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  sugar;  add 
the  cream  and  mix  well.  Stuff  the  tomatoes;  replace 
the  slices,  and  place  tomatoes  (with  cut  ends  up)  in  a 
baking  dish  with  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning. 
Drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  tomato  and  bake 
until  tender.  Place  another  small  lump  of  butter  on 
each  tomato  and  serve  in  same  dish.    Very  fine. 

MISS  BERTHA  OCHS. 
Baked  Tomatoes. 

Remove  the  skin  from  tomatoes  and  cut  in  halves. 
Roll  in  cracker  crumbs  that  have  been  seasoned  with 
salt  and  pepper,  sprinkle  tops  with  grated  cheese  and 
put  in  pan  that  has  been  greased.   Bake  20  minutes. 

MRS.  WILLIE  MARSCHALL. 

Deviled  Radishes. 

Pare  radishes  and  boil  until  tender,  adding  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  to  water  when  nearly  done.  Place  in 
a  buttered,  shallow  glass  baking-dish  and  sprinkle  over 
2  cupfuls  of  radishes,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  nut 
meats,  using  walnuts  or  peanuts  and  1  tablespoonful  of 
grated  cheese.  Cover  with  rather  thick  and  highly 
seasoned  tomato  sauce,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  thickly, 
grate  1  tablespoonful  of  cheese  over  all.  Brown  in  a 
hot  oven. 

MRS.  ALFRED  P.  C.  PETSCH. 


—  56  — 


SALADS  ^ 


Apple  Salad. 

Peel  and  dice  about  half  a  dozen  apples.  Beat  2 
egg  yolks,  y2  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  salt,  white  pepper, 
1  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  heat  over  slow  fire  until  it 
begins  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Then  add  1  cup  of 
cream,  beat  until  it  is  cool.  Pour  over  apples  and  mix 
thoroughly. 

MRS.  ARNOLD  KOTT. 
Beet  Salad. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  beets,  celery,  in  equal  parts; 
3  hard  boiled  eggs;  3  tablespoonfuls  olive  oil.  Season 
to  taste. 

Dice  the  potatoes,  beets,  and  celery.  Mash  the  yolks 
of  the  eggs,  add  olive  oil,  salt  and  pepper  and  mix  with 
the  vegetables.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with 
rings  of  the  hard  boiled  whites. 

MRS.  AUG.  ITZ. 

Celery  Salad. 

2  bunches  celery;  1  tablespoon  olive  oil;  4  table- 
spoonfuls  vinegar;  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

Wash  and  scrape  celery;  lay  in  ice-cold  water  until 
ready  for  use.  Cut  into  inch  lengths,  mix  with  dressing 
and  serve  cold. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER. 


—  57  — 


Cabbage  Salad. 

Medium  sized  head  of  cabbage;  1  large  onion;  6 
green  sweet  peppers;  6  medium  sized  tomatoes. 

DRESSING:  iy2  cup  water,  y2  cup  vinegar;  y2  cup 
sugar,  1  tablespoonful  black  pepper;  2  tablespoonfuls 
salt;  y2  cup  sweet  cream. 

MRS.  AIB.  KOENNECKE. 

Cabbage  Salad. 

2  cups  each  of  finely  chopped  cabbage  and  mellow 
apples,  cover  with  boiled  dressing  made  from  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs;  1  gill  of  vinegar;  2  gills  milk;  1  tablespoon 
of  butter;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  1  teaspoonful  of  mus- 
tard; %  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper;  carefully  mixed 
and  cooked  in  double-boiler.  The  cabbage  should  be 
soaked  in  cold  water  1  hour  before  chopping  and  the 
dressing  should  be  cold.  Mix  cabbage,  apples  and  salad 
dressing  and  just  before  serving  add  2  cups  of  finely 
chopped,  roasted  peanuts. 

MRS.  W.  C.  CARTER, 

Cabbage  Salad. 

Medium  sized  head  of  cabbage;  1  large  apple,  chop 
up  fine  and  salt ;  y2  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Pour  over  this  a  dressing  made  of  2  eggs;  1  tea- 
spoon butter ;  y2  cup  pine-apple  juice ;  a  pinch  of  mus- 
tard and  celery  salt,  and  y2  cup  vinegar. 

This  salad  may  be  improved  by  adding  2  or  3 
slices  of  pineapple. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 


—  58  — 


Mixed  Salad* 

6  large  boiled  potatoes  (cold),  diced;  3  barely  ripe 
tomatoes;  1'  onion,  chopped;  3  hard-boiled  eggs;  1  cu- 
cumber, sliced. 

Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed.  Moisten 
with  oil  and  vinegar  or  sour  cream  dressing.  Must  not 
be  dry. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Chicken  Salad. 

1  boiled  chicken ;  1  cup  pecans ;  a  few  apples ;  a  few" 
pickles ;  some  celery ;  six  eggs ;  1  tablespoonful  sugar ; 
2  tablespoonfuls  butter;  y2  tablespoonful  mustard;  1 
cup  cider  vinegar;  pepper  and  salt. 

Chop  the  chicken,  add  pecans,  apples,  pickles  and 
celery.  Boil  eggs  hard.  Rub  the  yolks  of  three  eggs 
fine,  add  sugar,  butter,  mustard,  vinegar,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Mix  all  ingredients,  put  into  a  dish  and. 
decorate  with  three  eggs  cut  into  rings  or  lengthwise. 

MRS.  AUG.  GOLD. 

Chicken  Salad. 

1  boiled  chicken;  2  small  pickles;  1  cup  pecans;  1 
stalk  celery;  2  apples;  6  eggs. 

Chop  chicken,  pecans,  apples,  pickles  and  celery 
very  fine.  Boil  eggs  hard  and  cut  in  small  squares,  us& 
half  for  salad  and  half  to  decorate  the  top  of  salad. 

DRESSING:  y2  teaspoon  sugar;  2  eggs;  %  tea- 
spoon mustard;  l/2  cup  vinegar;  ^teaspoon  salt;  'Y2 
cup  water;  %  teaspoon  cayenne;  1  level  tablespoon 
flour;  1  tablespoon  butter. 


—  59  — 


Mix  sugar,  mustard,  salt,  cayenne  and  flour  and 
beat  well  with  the  eggs,  then  add  vinegar,  water  and 
butter,  stir  thoroughly,  and  then  put  in  double  boiler 
and  let  boil  till  it  thickens.  When  cold  mix  with  salad 
and  serve.  MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Take  1  nice  large  hen,  boil  tender  in  salt  water, 
then  take  from  fire  but  let  chicken  remain  in  stock 
until  cold.  Cut  up  in  %  inch  pieces,  then  take  y%  the 
amount  of  blanched  tender  celery  and  also  cut  up  in  1/3 
inch  pieces,  and  about  1  dozen  olives  cut  in  small  picees. 
When  ready  to  serve  mix  with  plenty  of  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

MISS  MARY  STEIN. 
Chicken  Salad. 

Put  one  good  sized  chicken  on  to  cook  in  cold  water, 
add  one  onion,  simmer  until  chicken  is  very  tender.  Eight 
hard  boiled  egggs,  one  stalk  celery  or  celery  seed,  six 
small  dill  pickles.  Cut  chicken,  celery  and  pickles  in 
small  cubes.  Chop  the  whites  of  eggs  very  fine,  mixing 
all  thoroughly.  Then  make  a  sauce  of  one  cup  butter, 
one-half  cup  olive  oil,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one  large 
spoon  mustard.    Salt,  pepper  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  fine  powder,  then  add 
the  salt,  pepper  and  sugar,  then  the  oil  and  butter 
(which  has  been  melted)  putting  in  a  few  drops  at  a 
time,  add  mustard,  lastly  the  vinegar,  a  spoonful  at  the 
time.  Mix  all  ingredients  well  until  the  bottom  of  the 
mass  is  well  saturated. 

Mayonnaise  dressing  may  be  added  if  desired. 

MRS.  KURT  KEIDEL. 


—  60  — 


Celery  and  Apple  Salad. 

1  bunch  celery;  4  apples;  dice  very  fine. 

Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  dress  with 
a  mixture  of  vinegar  (1  tablespoonful)  and  double  the 
amount  thick  cream.  A  tablespoon  sugar  may  be  added 
if  preferred. 

MRS.  OTTO  EVERS. 

Italian  Salad. 

Any  kind  of  meat  cut  into  small  squares,  add  same 
quantity  of  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  dice,  2  hard  boiled 
eggs,  1  grated  onion,  1  teaspoon  of  prepared  mustard, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  cut  pickles,  1  tablespoon  cream,  a 
little  red  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  with  necessary  vinegar 
and  olive  oil. 

MRS.  I.  GLATZLE. 

Salad  of  Celery  Stalks. 

1  head  of  cabbage ;  12  celery  stalks,  chopped  fine. 
DRESSING:  l1  cup  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  butter; 

2  yolks  of  eggs  (well  beaten);  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  tea- 
spoon mustard;  a  pinch  cayenne;  1  tablespoon  sugar. 
Boil  until  thick.  Beat  dressing  well  and  pour  over 
salad. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Marshmallow  Salad. 

2  cups  marshmallows ;  2  cups  pineapples;  2  cups 
pecans. 

Sweeten  to  taste;  add  whipped  cream  and  a  touch 
of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

MRS.  HENRY  HIRSCH. 


—  61  — 


Fruit  Salad. 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  or  dates,  1  cup  diced  apples,  1 
sliced  banana,  1  shredded  orange. 

Mix  with  slightly  sweetened  and  flavored  whipped 
cream  or  mayonnaise.    Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves.        MISS  AMANDA  GROTE. 
Fruit  Salad. 

1  cup  nuts;  4  ripe  apples;  4  bananas;  y2  cup 
celery;  %  tablespoon  melted  butter;  y2  tablespoon 
flour;  y2  pint  sweet  milk;  1  egg;  %  cup  sugar;  %  cup 
vinegar;  14  teaspoon  mustard. 

Chop  fine  the  nuts,  apples,  bananas  and  celery  and 
mix  with  the  following  dressing:  Thicken  the  milk  with 
the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Mix 
the  beaten  egg,  sugar,  vinegar,  and  mustard  and  add  to 
the  thickened  milk  stirring  constantly  until  smooth. 

MRS.  AUG.  JORDAN. 
Fruit  Salad. 

Small  box  of  pineapples;  3  apples;  3  bananas;  3 
oranges ;  %  cup  of  pecans  and  dressing  as  follows : 

Mix  4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  butter,  the  juice  of  the  pineapples  and  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar.  —  Add  vinegar  last.  Stir  well,, 
and  cook  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cool  add  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  R,  G.  STRIEGLER, 
MRS.  ROEHM. 
Ham  Salad. 

2  lb  boiled  ham,  cut  in  cubes;  3  chopped  apples; 
y2  cup  nuts;  y2evL$  vinegar;  y2  cup  celery,  cut  in  small 
pieces.    Salt  and  peper  to  suit  taste. 


—  62  — 


Mix  well  and  .before  serving  add  the  following 
dressing : 

Yolks  of  3  boiled  eggs,  rubbed  to  a  paste;  yolks  of 
2  raw  eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  thoroughly,  add  1  table- 
spoon of  vinegar,  then  add  enough  salad  oil  or  melted 
butter  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  cream. 

MRS.  MARY  SCHWARZ. 

Nut  Salad. 

4  apples ;  2  cups  celery  •  2  cups  nuts. 

Peel  and  cut  the  apples;  cut  the  celery  and  pecans 
and  mix  with  the  apples. 

DRESSING:  1  cup  vinegar;  1  tablespoon  sugar;  1 
tablespoon  butter;  yolks  of  2  eggs;  y2  cup  water. 

Cook  vinegar  and  water,  add  butter,  sugar,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste.  Beat  eggs  well  and  stir  in 
quickly.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  while  hot  over 
salad.    Serve  cold. 

MRS.  HERMAN  USENER. 
Nut  Salad. 

6  apples,  cut  in  small  slices ;  2  bunches  of  celery,  cut 
fine;  1  cup  nuts;  2  tablespoonfuls  whipped  cream;  2 
tablespoonfuls  salad  dressing. 

MRS.  LOUIS  STIELER. 

Herring  Salad. 

Soak  6  herring  over  night,  remove  skin  and  bones.  1 
pound  pork  (may  be  omitted)  cooked  tender,  6  large 
irish  potatoes  boiled  in  jackets,  1  bunch  celery,  5  large 
apples,  4  good  sized  sour  pickles,  6  large   canned  or 


—  63  — 


fresh  beets,  5  hard  boiled  eggs.  Cut  all  ingredients  in 
small  dice.  Mix  potatoes  and  beets  first  then  add  other 
ingredients.   Then  mix  with  a  good  mayonnaise  dressing. 

ELLA  EVERS. 

Potato  Salad  with  Herring. 

6  medium  sized  potatoes,  boiled  in  their  jackets;  3 
hard  boiled  eggs;  salt  and  pepper  and  onion  to  taste; 
2  or  3  salt  herrings,  soaked  at  least  12  hours. 

Slice  potatoes,  remove  bones  from  herrings  and  cut 
into  cubes;  mix  together. 

Let  come  to  a  boil  y2  cup  vinegar,  a  tablespoonful 
of  lard,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  onion  and  %  cup  water, 
pour  over  salad  and  serve  cold. 

MRS.  FRITZ  SIMON. 

Picnic  Salad. 

V2  Qt.  finely  chopped  cabbage ;  6  apples ;  1  cup  nuts ; 
1  cup  celery  or  1  tablespoonful  celery  seed;  3  hard 
boiled  eggs ;  1'  cup  of  cream. 

DRESSING:  2  raw  eggs,  well  beaten;  1  tablespoon* 
ful  of  mixed  mustard;  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  salt  to  taste;  a  little  white 
pepper. 

Mix  well,  add  the  cream  and  pour  over  the  mixture. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Peel  and  cut  a  slice  from  stem  end  of  each  tomato 
and  remove  the  inside  pulp.  Pare  2  small  cucumbers, 
cut  in  quarters  and  put  in  ice  water  until  ready  to  mix> 
then  dry  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Mix  with  drained  tomato 


—  64  — 


pulp  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Arrange  lettuce 
leaves,  put  in  tomatoes  filled  with  cucumber  mixture 
and  put  1  teaspoon  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each. 

MRS.  CHAS.  SCHWARZ. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Remove  stems  of  tomatoes,  cut  almost  into  halves, 
then  into  quarters  and  then  into  eighths,  salt.  Set  in 
head  of  lettuce.  One  tablespoon  diced  pineapple,  one 
tablespoon  mayonnaise,  add  nuts  if  desired. 

VERDIE  KETTNER. 

Surprise  Salad. 

Peel  medium  sized  tomatoes,  scoop  out  the  pulp; 
chop  cabbage  and  celery  very  fine,  add  a  few  broken 
walnut  meats  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing;  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  tomatoes  with  the 
mixture  and  serve  cold. 

MRS.  EDNA  ALSTON. 
Pear  Salad. 

Serve  two  halves  of  canned  pears  on  lettuce  leaves, 
grate  cheese  over  the  pears,  and  put  mayonnaise  on  top. 

MRS.  P.  W.  LEMONS. 

Harvard  Salad. 

Cover  large  green  pepper  with  ice  water  and  let 
stand  until  crisp.  Cut  a  slice  from  stem,  remove  seeds, 
and  wipe  out  inside. 

Mash  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  cream  and  season 
with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Fill  pepper  case  with 
cheese,  chill  thoroughly,  and  cut  in  1/3  inch  slices 
crosswise.    Drain  slices  of  canned  pineapple,  and  serve 


—  65  — 


a  slice  of  pepper  and  cheese  on  top  of  a  slice  of  pine- 
apple on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  teaspoon  of  mayonnaise 
on  top. 

MRS.  P.  W.  LEMONS. 
Salmon  Salad. 

1  can  salmon;  2  sweet  peppers;  2  cabbage  leaves;  4 
pickles;  1  large  apple;  2  hard  boiled  eggs;  y2  teaspoon 
salt;  i/4  teaspoon  black  pepper;  1  tablespoonful  butter 
melted;  %  cup  vinegar. 

Slice  cabbage,  sweet  peppers,  pickles  and  apples 
very  fine,  dice  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  salt,  pepper,  butter 
and  vinegar;  pour  over  salmon  and  mix  well. 

MRS.  D.  A.  RILEY. 
Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

y2  cup  sugar;  y2  teaspoon  mustard;  y2  teaspoon 
salt;  ^teaspoon  cayenne;  4  tablespoonfuls  butter;  4 
tablespoonfuls  vinegar;  1  cup  whipped  cream;  3  yolks 
of  eggs. 

Mix  seasoning  with  butter  melted,  add  eggs  and 
vinegar,  boil  in  a  pan  of  water  until  thick;  when  cold, 
add  cup  of  cream.  MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 

Fruit  Salad. 

1  grape  fruit;  3  oranges;  3  slices  pineapple;  12 
marshmallows ;  14  CUP  °f  chopped  nut  meats;  1  apple. 

MISS  OLGA  VON  HAGEN. 
Salad. 

1  can  salmon;  4  sour  pickles,  chopped  fine;  2  hard 
boiled  eggs;  1  level  teaspoon  mustard;  1  tablespoon 
sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  cream  or 
milk;  6  tablespoons  vinegar;  1  raw  egg. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 


—  66  — 


Tomato  Aspic  Salad. 

Dissolve  2  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine  in  y2  cupful 
of  cold  water.  Turn  the  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes 
or  y2  dozen  fresh  tomatoes  into  a  porcelain  lined  sauce- 
pan; add  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  allspice,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper,  add 
salt  to  taste.  Cook  about  20  minutes,  strain,  and  again 
put  on  the  fire  to  boil.  Mix  with  the  soaked  gelatine. 
Turn  into  molds  and  set  on  ice. 

MRS.  FELIX  KLAERNER. 

Vegetable  Salad. 

6  potatoes;  3  tablespoonfuls  pickles;  2  apples;  1 
green  pepper;  y2  head  cabbage;  2  onions;  3  egg  yolks; 
butter  size  of  an  egg. 

DRESSING:  1  teaspoonful  celery  seed;  a  pinch  of 
pepper;  y2  cupful  vinegar;  y2  teaspoonful  Worcester- 
shire Sauce;  1  teaspoonful  salt;  *4  cupful  sugar;  1 
tablespoonful  butter ;  2  egg  yolks. 

Boil  the  potatoes,  slice  thin,  chop  cabbage,  pickles, 
onions  and  apples.  Boil  eggs  hard,  chop  fine,  cut  pepper 
fine,  and  mix  all  ingredients.  Heat  butter  and  vinegar; 
add  other  ingredients,  let  them  come  to  a  boil;  add 
beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  until  it  thickens  and  remove 
from  fire.  Cool,  and  when  the  salad  is  ready  to  serve, 
mix  with  the  dressing. 

MRS.  AUG.  GOLD. 

Combination  Vegetable  Salad. 

Marinate  in  French  dressing  two  cupfuls  each  of 
cold  cooked  asparagus  tips  and  tiny  whole  new  cooked 
potatoes.    Drain  and  arrange  in  layers  in  a  Salad  bowl 


—  67  — 


which  has  been  rubbed  with  a  split  clove  of  garlic.  Be- 
tween each  layer  add  a  few  slices  of  cooked  young 
turnips,  cooked  young  carrots,  peeled  and  sliced 
radishes,  diced  celery,  and  sliced  spring  onions.  Serve 
with  the  following  Chiff onade  dressing : 

Mix  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  with  5  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  olive  oil  and  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and 
paprika,  beat  together,  and  add  1  cooked  beet,  1  hard 
cooked  egg  and  a  few  pecans,  all  chopped  fine. 

MRS.  VIDA  G.  NEWBERRY. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

2  eggs;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter;  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  juice ;  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  1  cup 
of  sweet  cream ;  y±  cup  of  powdered  sugar ;  y2  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla. 

Beat  the  sugar,  egg,  butter  and  lemon  juice  together 
until  very  light.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  mixture 
thickens.  Cool,  then  add  salt,  vanilla  and  cream  which 
has  been  whipped  till  stiff. 

Serve  cold  on  any  fruit  salad. 

MRS.  EMIL  RILEY. 

Salad  Dressing. 

2  eggs,  yolks  beaten  separately;  1  tablespoon  sugar; 
1  teaspoon  salt;  4  tablespoons  vinegar.  Cook  this  until 
thick,  stirring  it  all  the  time.  Remove  from  fire  and 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites.  When  ready  to  use  stir  in  1 
cup  whipped  cream  if  desired. 

MRS.  L.  K.  TATNTER. 


—  68  — 


Salad  Dressing. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  1  tablespoonful  of  flour; 
1  cup  sweet  milk;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard;  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  1  teaspoonful  of  salt;  y2  cup 
of  vinegar. 

Mix  flour  and  butter,  when  melted,  add  sweet  milk, 
let  come  to  a  boil.  Mix  mustard,  sugar,  salt,  vinegar, 
and  eggs ;  add  the  milk  and  let  boil  until  thick.  Remove 
from  fire  and  beat  well  for  a  few  minutes. 

MRS.  E.  VANDER  STUCKEN. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  (Without  Oil.) 

2  eggs;  butter,  size  of  an  egg;  1  tablespoon  mixed 
mustard;  1  teaspoon  salt;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar; 
1  tablespoonful  sugar. 

Beat  eggs,  add  mustard,  salt  and  sugar,  beat  again 
and  add  melted  butter  and  vinegar.  Set  bowl  over 
boiling  water  and  stir  constantly  until  thick  and  smooth. 
When  cold,  add  a  cupful  of  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  H.  W.  KUSENBERGER. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Have  dishes  and  ingredients  very  cold.  In  sum- 
mer set  dish  in  pan  of  crushed  ice.  In  soup-plate  or 
shallow  bowl  put  yolk  of  1  raw  egg,  add  x/4  teaspoonful 
salt  and  a  dash  cayenne,  stir  with  fork  till  very  thick. 
Add  a  few  drops  of  olive  oil  and  stirr;  add  more  oil, 
few  drops  at  a  time  until  mixture  balls  on  fork.  Thin 
with  few  drops  lemon  juice,  then  add  more  oil.  Alter- 
nate in  this  way  until  1  cup  of  olive  oil  is  used  and 
dressing  is  thick  and  glossy  like  jelly.  About  3 
tablespoons  lemon  juice  will  be  needed.    Always  stir 


—  69  — 


in  the  same  direction.  Keep  covered  and  on  ice  until 
needed. 

MRS.  J.  A.  SCHLEYER. 
Mayonnaise  Dressing  for  Pressed  Chicken. 

3  eggs  well  beaten;  %  cup  of  sugar;  i/^teaspoon 
of  black  pepper;  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper;  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  mustard;  1  tablespoonful  of  olive  oil;  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter ;  1  cup  of  vinegar. 

Boil  thick.  MRS.  LOUIS  DIETZ. 

Simple  Salad  Dressing-. 

Butter,  size  of  walnut;  2  tablespoons  of  sugar;  1 
teaspoon  mustard;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  teaspoon  corn- 
starch; 2  eggs;  1  teacup  mild  vinegar. 

Mix  butter,  cornstarch,  mustard  and  salt  together; 
add  beaten  eggs  and  sugar;  cook  until  thick  in  double 
boiling  pan  and  add  vinegar  last.  Thin  with  cream 
when  wanted  for  use. 

MRS.  G.  L.  STEBBINS. 
Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Take  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beat  with  a  fork,  then 
take  x/2  cup  of  good  fresh  olive  oil,  add  only  1  drop  at 
a  time,  beat  continually  until  all  the  oil  is  used,  then  add 
salt  to  taste,  also  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  then  add  1  cupful  of  whipped  cream 
and  a  little  sugar,  mustard  may  also  be  added. 

All  ingredients  should  be  ice-cold  before  making. 

This  is  a  dressing  for  any  salad.  Cream  should  not 
be  added  until  the  dressing  is  used.  Will  keep  a  week 
on  ice.  If  olives  are  added  this  dressing  makes  a  splendid 
filling  for  sandwiches. 

MISS  MARY  STEIN. 


—  70  — 


PUDDINGS 


Apple  Pudding. 


Stew  y2  doz.  apples  with  y2  cup  sugar  and  pour  in 
pudding  dish. 

Make  custard  of  1  qt.  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  y2 
cup  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  flour;  pour  this  over  the 
apples. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a 
little  sugar,  pour  on  custard;  place  in  oven  for  a  few 
moments  to  brown. 


Soak  2  cups  bread  crumbs  in  4  cups  hot  milk,  then 
mash  well  with  a  wire  potato  masher.  Beat  2  eggs  with 
2/3  cup  sugar  and  x/4  teaspoon  salt.  Add  the  milk  and 
bread  to  this;  then  flavor  with  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
and  2  teaspoons  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
or  cook  in  a  steamer  until  firm  (about  y2  hour),  serve 
hot  with  sauce.  E.  LOUDON. 


1  cup  cocoanut;  y2  lb  powdered  sugar;  1  quart 
milk;  6  eggs  beaten;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg;  2  teaspoons 
vanilla. 

Boil  the  milk,  whip  in  gradually  the  beaten  eggs. 
When  nearly  cold  add  cocoanut,  pour  in  paste  shells. 
Bake  20  minutes. 


MRS.  H.  W.  BRAEUTIGAM. 
Bread  Pudding, 


Cocoanut  Custard. 


MRS.  EMIL  WEBER. 


—  71  — 


Frozen  Banana  Pudding, 

Four  bananas;  1  heaping  teaspoon  powdered 
gelatine;  4  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  3  tablespoonfuls 
boiling  water;  3  cups  milk;  1  cup  whipped  cream; 
3  eggs. 

Put  the  gelatine  in  a  sauce-pan,  add  the  eggs,  water, 
sugar  and  milk;  stir  until  they  thicken,  then  cool  and 
add  the  bananas  rubbed  through  a  sieve  and  the  whipped 
cream. 

Freeze  and  serve  with  cherries  on  top. 

MRS.  JOHN  KELLER. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Peel  and  slice  4  large  oranges,  put  in  pudding  pan 
and  sprinkle  with  1'  cup  of  sugar. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  1  quart  milk;  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  well  beaten;  y2  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls  corn- 
starch. When  cool  pour  over  oranges.  Over  this  spread 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  four  tablespoonfuls 
sugar,  place  in  oven  and  brown. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Christmas  Pudding. 

%  lb  stale  bread  crumbs;  1  cup  scalded  milk;  2/3 
cup  sugar;  5  eggs;  1%  cups  raisins;  2/3  cup  currants; 
%  euP  pecans  or  walnuts ;  y2  cup  citron ;  y2  lb  suet ;  14 
cup  brandy;  y2  nutmeg;  s^teaspoon  cinnamon;  %  tea- 
spoon mace;  iy2  teaspoon  salt. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk.  Add  the  sugar,  the 
well  beaten  eggs,  the  raisins  (seeded,  cut  in  pieces,  and 
dredged  in  flour)  currants,  pecans,  citron  (cut  in  strips), 
and  the  chopped  suet.    When  thoroughly  blended  add 


—  72  — 


the  brandy,  salt,  and  spices.    Turn  into  buttered  mold 
and  steam  or  boil  six  hours.    Serve  with  foamy  sauce. 
Foamy  Sauce* 
%  cup  butter;  1  cup  powdered  sugar;  whites  of 
2  eggs;  %  cup  rich  whipped  cream;  salt. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Put  over  hot  water,  add 
beaten  whites,  and  beat  until  well  blended.  Cool,  add 
a  little  salt,  and  the  whipped  cream.    Then  beat  again. 

MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 
Date  Jelly. 

Take  a  package  of  good  dates,  remove  the  pits  and 
fill  with  chopped  walnuts  or  pecans;  pour  1  to  2  pints 
strawberry  gelatine  into  a  mold  and  when  it  begins  to 
harden,  repeat  the  process  using  in  all  1  pt.  orange  and 
T  pt.  strawberry  gelatine.  Place  on  ice  until  perfectly 
firm.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  JOHN  KELLER. 
Maltese  Rice, 

1  cup  large  grained  rice ;  2  or  3  lemons,  grated  rind 
of  one ;  y2  cup  sugar  or  more  according  to  taste ;  2  cups 
water. 

Make  a  rich  lemonade,  adding  by  yvay  of  flavoring 
a  tablespoon  of  rum  or  brandy.  Swell  rice  in  6  cups 
water,  in  a  double-boiler  or  oven ;  never  use  salt  in 
the  preparation  of  this  dish. 

Pour  lemonade  over  rice  allowing  same  to  boil  up 
once  in  the  mixture,  pour  in  mold  and  set  to  cool.  May 
be  improved  by  adding  chopped  almonds.  Orange  juice 
or  pineapple  in  addition  to  the  lemon  makes  a  rich  and 
delicious  dessert. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCHMIDT. 


—  73  — 


Marshmallow  Pudding. 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  right  stiff;  add  %  cup  of 
sugar.  Dissolve  1  tablespoon  of  Knox  gelatine  in  ^4 
cup  of  cold  water,  add  14  cup  boiling  water,  add  this  a 
little  at  the  time  to  the  eggs,  while  beating,  flavor  to 
suit  taste.  To  half  of  froth  add  a  little  fruit  coloring 
and  sprinkle  with  pecans  or  any  fruit.  Put  the  white 
froth  on  top.    Set  on  ice  to  harden.    Serve  with  cream. 

MRS.  HILMAR  WEBER. 
MISS  BERTHA  OCHS. 

Apple  Roll. 

2  cups  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder;  % 
teaspoon  salt,  3  level  tablespoons  shortening;  y2  cupful 
liquid,  half  water  and  half  milk;  4  apples  chopped  fine. 
Roll  dough  %  inch  thick  spread  with  apples.  Roll 
then  cut  V/2  or  2  inches  long,  place  cut  side  down  in 
hot  syrup,  made  by  boiling  1  pint  water  and  1%  cups 
sugar.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  nutmeg.    Then  bake;  serve  with  cream. 

MRS.  L.  K.  TAINTER. 

Peach  Pudding. 

Put  4  cupfuls  of  peaches  in  a  pudding  dish,  set  on 
stove  to  heat.  Make  batter  of  2  eggs,  2  cupfuls  sweet 
milk;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  2%  cups  of  flour;  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
When  fruit  is  boiling  hot,  pour  batter  over  it,  and  bake 
until  thoroughly  done.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

MRS.  MAX  SCHOENEWOLF. 


—  74  — 


Peach  Dumpling's. 

2  cups  flour;  4  teaspoons  baking  powder;  2  table- 
spoons Crisco;  1  teaspoon  salt  ;  %  cup  milk. 

6  peaches;  *4  euP  sugar.  Mix  and  sift  all  dry  in- 
gredients. Work  in  the  Crisco  and  add  milk  to  make 
a  soft  dough.  Roll  to  14  inch  thickness,  and  shape  with 
biscuit  cutter.  Cut  peaches  in  halves,  extract  its  pit 
and  put  sugar  in  its  place.  Cover  again  with  other 
half  peach,  and  put  between  2  biscuits  and  press  edges 
together.    Bake  30  minutes.    Serve  with  cream. 

MRS.  MAX  SCHOENEWOLF. 
Lemon  Cream. 

3  tablespoonfuls  cornstarch;  juice  and  rind  of  1% 
lemons;  1  cupful  sugar;  2  eggs;  y2  teaspoonful  salt; 
2y2  cupfuls  boiling  water. 

Mix  cornstarch  with  one-half  of  the  sugar;  add  the 
boiling  water  gradually  and  cook  15  minutes  in  a 
double  boiler.  Add  the  egg  yolks  beaten  with  the  rest 
of  the  sugar,  the  salt,  and  lemon  juice;  cook  5  minutes 
longer.  Pour  this  mixture  into  the  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites,  whip  vigorously  ,chill,  and  serve  piled  high  in 
sherbet  glasses. 

ELLA  WAHRMUND. 
Lemon  Foam  Pudding. 

Put  2  cups  of  hot  water;  1  cup  granulated  sugar 
into  saucepan.  When  it  boils  add  2  rounded  tablespoons 
of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  fast  as 
it  boils.  After  it  has  cooked  4  or  5  minutes  squeeze  in 
the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Take  from  stove  and  let  cooL 
Whip  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  2  eggs — 3  when  eggs 
are  cheap.    By  this  time  the  cooked  cornstarch  which 


—  75  — 


has  been  stirred  occasionally  is  cool  enough  to  be  poured 
slowly  over  the  whites  of  eggs,  a  brisk  whipping  going 
on  meantime.  In  about  one  minute  the  whole  mass 
will  be  light  and  foamy.  Set  in  cool  place.  A  cus- 
tard made  of  1  pint  of  milk  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs  may  be  poured  over  the  '  'Lemon  Foam"  when  it 
is  served,  though  it  is  not  essential. 

MRS.  WM.  MARSCHALL. 
Nut  and  Tapioca  Pudding. 

iy2  cupfuls  of  tapioca;  2y2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  1  cup 
chopped  nut  meats;  1  can  pineapple;  strained  juice  of 
1  lemon;  strained  juice  of  1  orange;  whites  of  2  eggs; 
whipped  cream. 

Cover  tapioca  with  cold  water  and  allow  it  to  soak 
over  night.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the  sugar  and 
allow  to  cook  until  clear  then  add  nut  meats,  orange  and 
lemon  juice  and  the  syrup  from  the  can  of  pineapple; 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  MAX  WINKEL. 
Fruit  Crown.  (Dessert.) 

Heat  2  pints  of  water  and  prepare  with  2  packages 
of  Raspberry  or  Strawberry  Jello.  Then  prepare  se- 
parately 1  pint  of  Lemon  Jello,  or  1  pint  of  Pineapple 
juice,  to  which  one  package  of  gelatine  has  been  added. 
Cover  bottom  of  wet  mold  with  a  little  Raspberry  juice 
(about  1/3  of  whole  proportion).  When  set,  pour  in 
lemon  or  pineapple  jelly,  whipped  to  a  sponge,  mixed 
with  half  a  cup  of  cherries  or  nuts.  When  set, 
add  the  remainder  of  Raspberry  jelly. 

MRS.  GEO.  E.  KOTT. 


—76  — 


Baked  Custard. 

Beat  5  eggs;  5  tablespoons  sugar;  1  qt.  milk;  % 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 
If  desired  pour  the  custard  into  cups,  set  in  a  pan  of 
water,  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  vanilla  or 
any  other  sauce.  MRS.  VICTOR  KEIDEL. 

Pineapple  Tapioca  Pudding. 

3  cups  boiling  water;  %  cups  Minute  Tapioca;  boil 
ten  minutes. 

Add  small  can  grated  pineapple,  and  1  cup  sugar. 
Cook  3  minutes  then  stir  in  whites  of  3  eggs.  When 
cool,  set  in  ice  box  till  stiff.  Serve  with  cream,  plain 
or  whipped.  MRS.  ELISE  REINBACH. 

Rice  Pudding. 

y2  cup  rice;  1%  pint  milk;  y2  cup  sugar;  a  little 
salt;  1  tablespoon  lemon  rind  or  flavor. 

Put  washed  rice,  sugar,  salt  and  milk  in  pudding 
dish,  bake  in  moderate  oven  2  hours,  stirring  frequently 
first  iy2  hours,  then  permit  it  to  finish  cooking  with  a 
light  colored  crust,  disturbing  it  no  more.  Eat  cold  with 
cream  or  any  sauce. 

MRS.  ELISE  REINBACH. 

Bishop  Whipple  Pudding. 

1  cup  chopped  pecans;  1  cup  chopped  dates;  y2  cup 
sugar;  2/3  cups  flour;  2  eggs;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder. 

Mix  as  cake,  except  that  you  beat  whites  and  yolks 
of  eggs  together.  Bake  in  biscuit  pan.  Break  in  pieces 
while  hot,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve 
cold  with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  0.  B.  WITTE. 


—  77  — 


Cabinet  Pudding1, 

6  eggs ;  6  tablespoons  sugar ;  10  cocoanut  macaroons ; 
1  pint  of  cherries;  2  tablespoons  Knox  gelatine;  1  cup 
of  pecan  meats;  1/3  cup  of  sweet  milk;  14  cup  of  wine. 
Take  the  yolks  of  eggs,  the  milk,  sugar  and  juice  from 
cherries  and  make  a  custard  in  double  boiler.  Soak 
gelatine  in  a  cup  of  water  and  add  to  custard.  Then 
add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  the  crumbled 
macaroons,  chopped  nut  meats  and  the  cherries,  cut  fine. 
Mix  all  well  and  set  aside  to  harden.  Chill  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

MRS.  P.  W.  LEMONS. 
Apple  Snow. 

1  qt.  of  milk ;  6  eggs ;  6  apples ;  4  tablespoons  sugar ; 
y<2,  teaspoon  vanilla.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Beat 
sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  well,  then  stir  same  into  the 
milk.  Continue  stirring  to  prevent  curdling.  Add  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Set  aside  to  cool,  then  add  vanilla  flavor- 
ing. Before  serving  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  with  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Grate  and  add  apples. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  custard. 

MRS.  VICTOR  KEIDEL. 
Caramel  Pudding. 

6  tablespoons  white  sugar,  browned  to  syrup  in 
iron  saucepan.  3  eggs  beaten  together,  y2  cup  of  milk; 
3  tablespoons  sugar;  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  together; 
pour  syrup  into  six  cups  and  the  mixture  over  it.  Set 
in  pan  of  hot  water ;  cook  twenty  minutes, 

MRS.  0.  B.  WITTE. 


—  78  — 


Pastry,  Pies,  Tarts 


Pie  Crust. 


1  cupful  flour;  5  tablespoonfuls  lard  or  butter;  y2 
teaspoonful  salt;  about  2  tablespoonfuls  water. 

Sift  flour,  mix  in  lard,  then  cold  water;  place 
dough  on  board  and  roll  out  from  center,  using  a  light 
motion.    This  will  make  two  crusts. 


Pie  Crust. 

%  cup  of  lard;  %  cup  of  water;  2  cups  of  flour; 
%  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Always  in  adding  the  filler  in  a  pie,  let  the  crust 
be  thoroughly  cool. 

MRS.  E.  VANDER  STUCKEN. 


1  cup  cream;  flour  sufficient  to  handle;  %  cup 
water;  pinch  salt  (mix  well). 

Roll  out  y2  inch  thick  in  platter  spread  with  butter, 
fold  over  and  roll  out  again.  Repeat  this  once  more. 
Bake  in  deep  dish. 

When  cold  spread  jelly  over  and  cover  with  whipped 
cream. 

In  place  of  whipped  cream  an  extra  sweet  meringue 
may  be  used. 


MISS  MARY  STEIN. 


Schaum-Torte.  .  (Pastry.) 


MRS.  FRITZ  KNUST. 


—  79  — 


Banana  Pie. 

1  qt.  sweet  milk;  4  eggs;  %  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon- 
ful  cornstarch. 

Cook  the  milk,  sugar,  cornstarch  and  yolks  of  eggs 
till  thick;  after  crust  is  baked  fill  with  sliced  bananas; 
pour  the  custard  over  this.  Beat  the  whites  with  6 
iablespoonfuls  sugar,  spread  on  top  of  pie,  and  bake  to 
a  nice  brown. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Apple  Pie. 

V2  CUP  cream;  1  egg;  6  boiled  apples;  1  teaspoon 
vanilla;  butter  size  of  a  walnut;  sugar  to  taste. 
Beat  sugar,  cream,  flavoring,  and  egg. 
Place  apples  on  crust,  pour  liquid  over,  dab  with  bits 
of  butter,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  I.  GLATZLE. 

Banana  Pie. 

FILLING:  1  pint  of  sweet  milk;  y2  cup  of  sugar; 
1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  2  yolks  of  eggs;  2  tablespoons 
of  flour. 

Cook  together  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 

PIE  CRUST:  1  cupful  of  flour;  2  tablespoons  ice 
water;  4  level  tablespoonfuls  lard. 

Bake  crust.  Cover  with  layer  of  sliced  bananas 
and  put  in  the  filling.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  two  eggs, 
adding  two  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Place  on  top  and 
brown  in  the  oven. 

MARY  LOVE. 


Apple  Cream  Pie. 

To  2  cups  of  stewed  and  mashed  apples  add  %  cup 
sugar,  put  on  crust  and  bake.  When  cold  pour  ovep  it 
1  cup  of  sweet  cream  whipped  with  3  tablespoonfuls 
sugar. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 
Buttermilk  Pie. 

1  cup  buttermilk;  2  eggs;  %  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon 
cornstarch;  juice  and  rind  of  y2  lemon. 

Mix,  pour  in  crust  and  bake.  When  done  spread 
with  eggwhites  beaten  with  3  tablespoons  sugar  ;  set  in 
oven  to  brown. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 
Chocolate  Pie. 

2  cups  of  milk;  1  cup  of  sugar;  yolks  of  3  eggs; 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa;  1 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Boil  until  thick  and  smooth.  Bake  crust  and  fill. 
Beat  whites  of  eggs,  add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 
Brown. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Cream  Pie. 

y2  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter;  2  tablespoons 
flour;  2  well  beaten  eggs;  2  cups  rich  milk;  2  teaspoons 
orange  extract. 

MRS.  MOURSUND. 
Blackberry  Short  Cake. 

1  qt.  of  flour;   1  teaspoonful  of  salt;   2  heaping 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  2  tablespoonfuls  butter; 
pint  of  milk. 

Sift  the  flour,  salt   and  baking  powder  together 


—  81  — 


mix  in  the  butter  cold,  add  the  milk  and  mix  into  a 
smooth  dough,  just  soft  enough  to  handle.  Divide  in 
two,  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick  to  size  of  pie  plate. 
Brush  first  layer  with  melted  butter  and  lay  on  greased 
pie  plate.  Bake  in  hot  oven  twenty  minutes,  separate 
the  cakes  without  cutting. 

Put  one  quart  of  blackberries  in  earthen  bowl, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  crush  slightly  and  spread  on  cut 
side  of  hot  short  cake.  Put  on  the  other  cake.  Spread 
top  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  with  a  little  sugar 
and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Garnish  the  top  with 
whole  blackberries. 

MRS.  OTTO  DITTMAR. 
Cream  Cheese  Pie. 

1  soup  plate  cream  cheese;  y2  cup  sugar;  1  cup 
currants;  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Smooth  cheese  with  mixing  spoon,  adding  cream  or 
milk  if  too  dry.  Stir  in  sugar,  currants,  flavoring,  the 
yolks  of  eggs  and  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg.  Fill  into 
pie  crust  and  bake.  Reserve  remaining  whites  of  egg 
for  meringue. 

If  pie  is  preferred  without  meringue,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon. 

MRS.  H.  GOLDSCMIDT. 
Lemon  Pie. 

2  small  cups  sugar;  6  level  tablespoonfuls  flour; 
2  lemons;  1  orange;  6  eggs;  2  cups  of  water. 

Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  crust.  Mix  the  flour  with 
sugar,  grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  half  the  rind  of 
the  orange,  use  juice  of  all  three,  mix  well  with  sugar, 
add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  well  and  add  the  water,  fill 


—  82  — 


the  pie  crust  and  bake  till  thick  custard. 

Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one 
half  cup  sugar,  beat  stiff,  spread  on  pie  set  in  oven 
again,  and  bake  till  light  brown. 

This  makes  two  pies. 

MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 
Cream  Pie. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs;  1  teaspoon  butter;  1  pt.  sugar;  1 
pint  rich  cream;  1  tablespoon  flour. 

Custard  Pie. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs;  6  tablespoons  sugar;  2  cups  milk; 
1  teaspoon  butter;  2  tablespoons  flour  or  cornstarch. 
Flavor  to  taste. 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

1  pint  milk;  3  eggs;  y2  cup  cocoanut;  1  teaspoon 
cornstarch;  sugar  to  taste. 
Bake  in  a  rich  pie  crust. 

MRS.  A.  KUENEMANN. 
Jelly  Pie. 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar; 
1  large  egg;  x/2  cupful  of  jelly  or  jam. 

Make  a  crust  of  biscuit  dough,  line  pie  tin  and 
place  in  oven  long  enough  to  dry  on  top.  Pour  in  the 
filling  and  bake  (without  an  upper  crust)  in  a  hot  oven 
to  a  dark  brown. 

MRS.  F.  STEIN. 

Lemon  Pie. 

2  eggs;  juice  and  rind  of  y2  lemon;  1  tablespoonful 
cornstarch;  6  tablespoonfuls  water;  6  tablespoonfuls 
sugar. 


—  83  — 


Mix  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  3  tablespoonfuls  of 
the  sugar,  lemon,  starch,  butter  and  water,  pour  over 
<;rust  and  bake. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  with  the  rest  of  the 
sugar,  spread  on  pie  when  done,  put  back  in  oven  till 
a  nice  brown. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Lemon  Pie. 

1  cup  water;  1  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoonfuls  flour; 
4  eggs;  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Boil  together  sugar,  water,  flour  and  lemon  juice; 
when  cold  add  yolks  of  eggs. 

Line  pie  plates  with  rich  paste  fill  with  custard 
and  bake. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  a  little  sugar  spread  over 
pies  and  put  back  in  oven  long  enough  to  brown  nicely. 

MRS.  HY.  BASSE. 
Summer  Mince  Pie. 

1  cup  of  crushed  crackers;  1  cup  of  boiling  water; 
1  cup  of  molasses ;  1  cup  of  sugar ;  %  cup  of  vinegar ;  y% 
cup  of  melted  butter;  1  large  cup  of  raisins;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  allspice;  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  y2  tea- 
spoon of  cloves ;  y2  teaspoon  of  pepper ;  1  small  nutmeg. 

Chop  raisins,  then  add  all  ingredients,  water  and 
vinegar  last.   Bake  between  two  crusts. 

MRS.  BERTHA  NAUWALD. 
Pecan  Custard  Pie. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  water;  butter  size  of  an 
egg ;  4  eggs ;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cornstarch ;  1  cup  of 
cream  or  rich  milk;  ly^  cups  finely  chopped  pecans; 
vanilla  to  suit  taste. 


—  84  — 


Boil  sugar  and  water  to  a  thick  syrup,  to  this  add 
the  butter.  Take  the  yolks  of  the  four  eggs,  add  corn- 
starch and  milk  or  cream.  To  this  add  the  syrup,  place 
on  the  stove  and  boil  till  it  thickens.  Add  flavor  and 
pecans.  Pour  into  baked  crust.  Make  icing  of  whites, 
spread  on  top,  put  in  oven  until  browned. 

MRS.  WECK  MEARS, 
Menard,  Texas. 

Molasses  Pie. 

1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  y2  cup  molasses;  y2 
cup  rich  cream ;  yolks  of  4  eggs. 

Mix  well  and  cook  until  a  thick  cream,  fill  baked 
crust.  Spread  with  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  y2  cup  sugar,  and  brown  lightly. 

MRS.  MOURSUND. 

Sand  Tarts. 

2  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  one;  2  cups  sugar; 
1  cup  butter ;  3  cups  flour. 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner,  roll  out  thin,  cut  out  with 
-a  doughnut-cutter,  spread  with  the  white  of  one  egg, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  place  an  almond 
or  raisin  in  the  center  of  each  cake.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

MISS  BERTHA  PRIESS. 
Pumpkin  Pie. 

4  eggs ;  1  quart  of  pumpkin,  strained ;  3  cups  sugar ; 
1  teaspoonful  of  ginger;  3  pints  milk;  4  teaspoonfuls  of 
cinnamon. 

Boil  pumpkin,  strain,  add  sugar,  milk  and  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  spices;  beat  together  thoroughly  and  put  in 
pie  crust  and  bake. 


—  85  — 


Then  have  ready  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very 
stiff  with  y2  cup  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  set  in  oven  to 
bake  a  light  brown. 

For  pie  crust  use :  2  cups  flour ;  4  heaping  teaspoon- 
fuls  lard,  and  a  little  salt. 

Rub  lard  in  flour  well  and  add  cold  water  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  thin  and  line  your  pie- 
pans.    This  is  enough  for  two  pies. 

MISS  ALVINA  GOLD. 
Pumpkin  or  Squash  Pie.  No.  1. 
3  cups  stewed  and  strained  pumpkins;  2  cups  milk; 
2  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon;  1  teaspoon 
salt;  pinch  cloves. 

Line  2  pieplates  with  crust  as  for  custard  pie  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.  MRS.  ED.  OEHLER. 

Delicious  Pumpkin  Pie.  No.  2. 
3  eggs;   1   quart  of  strained  pumpkin;   2  cupfuls 
sugar;   2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;    1  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon.    Orange  extract  to  taste. 
Put  in  pie  crust  and  bake. 

MRS.  LEWIS  K.  SMITH. 
Pecan  Pie. 

1  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  flour; 
y2  cup  chopped  pecans;  3  eggs. 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  add  milk,  eggs  well  beaten  and 
pecans. 

PIE-CRUST :  3  cups  flour ;  %  teaspoon  salt ;  1  cup 
lard;  ice-water. 

Rub  lard  through  flour;  mix  in  the  ice-water,  add 
salt.  Handle  as  little  as  possible,  roll  thin,  lop  over,  and 
roll  again.   Fill  crust  and  bake  until  nearly  done,  cover 


—  86  — 


with  meringue,  set  back  in  oven  to  brown,  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  nuts. 

MRS.  ERWIN  NEFFENDORF. 
Orange  Cream  Pie, 

1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch;  y2  tablespoon  of  sugar; 
juice  of  one  orange ;  rind  of  14  orange ;  %  cup  of  water ; 

1  tablespoon  of  Karo  Syrup ;  juice  of  one  lemon;  yolks 
of  two  eggs. 

Place  in  sauce-pan  over  the  fire  the  cornstarch, 
water,  sugar  and  Karo.  Boil  five  minutes,  remove  from 
fire,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  orange  rind  and  juices  of  lemon 
and  orange. 

Line  pie  pan  with  very  thin  crust,  brush  with  beaten 
white  of  egg,  add  pie  mixture  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven.  MRS.  HARRY  M.  HARRINGTON. 

Orange  Pie.  No.  2. 

1  cupful  sugar;  3  tablespoonfuls  flour;  3  oranges. 

Slice  oranges  on  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  flour 
mixed,  and  bake. 

MRS.  HUGO  BORGFELD. 
Berry  Muffins. 

y±  cupful  of  butter;  1/3  cupful  of  sugar;  1  egg; 

2  1/3  cupfuls  of  flour ;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder ; 
y2  teaspoonful  of  salt;  1'  cupful  of  milk;  1  cupful  of 
berries;  1/3  cupful  of  flour. 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  the  sugar  and  well 
beaten  egg.  Mix  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Add 
alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture;  then  add 
the  berries  rolled  in  one- third  cupful  of  flour.  Fill  hot 
buttered  gem  pans  two-thirds  full.  Bake  twenty-five 
minutes.  MRS.  OTTO  DITTMAR. 


Jeff  Davis  Pie. 

3  eggs;  1  large  cup  sweet  milk;  y2  cup  sugar;  3 
tablespoonfuls  flour;  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Beat  yolks,  add  butter,  sugar  and  flour.  Then  add 
milk  and  any  desired  flavoring,  turn  in  flaky  crust 
and  bake.  When  done,  have  the  3  egg  whites  beaten 
stiff  with  3  tablespoons  sugar,  to  spread  on  top  and 
brown. 

MRS.  ED.  WINKEL. 

Butter-Scotch  Pie* 

2  cups  milk;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  2  tablespoons 
cornstarch,  3  tablespoons  butter;  %  teaspoon  salt;  2 
eggs;  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  pastry  crust,  marshmallows. 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  mix  sugar  and  corn- 
starch, add  to  milk,  stir  until  thick,  cover  and  cook  15 
minutes.  Add  butter  and  salt  and  pour  over  egg  yolks 
slightly  beaten. 

Return  to  double  boiler,  stir  and  cook  one  minute, 
remove  from  fire  and  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  add 
vanilla  and  pour  into  baked  pastry  crust. 

Cut  marshmallows  in  pieces  and  put  in  a  warm 
place  until  they  are  soft.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff, 
beat  in  marshmallows,  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the 
pie.  Serve  as  it  is  or  if  desired  bake  in  the  oven  until 
delicately  browned. 

ELLA  WAHRMUND. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

1  pound  steamed  sweet  potatoes  finely  mashed;  2 
cups  sugar;  1  cup  cream;  y2  cup  butter;  3  beaten  eggs. 
Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg. 


—  88  — 


Beat  well  and  pour  into  pie  tins  lined  with  good 
pie  crust. 

MRS.  ED.  STEIN. 
Blaetter  Squares. 

3  eggs;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  1  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar.  Add  flour  to  stiffen,  roll  out  thin,  spread 
with  butter,  roll  again  and  spread  with  butter.  Keep 
this  up  until  one  pound  of  butter  is  used,  then  spread 
top  with  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon,  cut  into  squares, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

MRS.  HENZE. 

Peanut  Butter  Pie* 

3  eggs;  4  tablespoons  sugar;  2  tablespoons  butter; 
2  tablespoons  peanut  butter;  'i/2  CUP  sweet  milk. 

Mix  ingredients  together;  fill  crust  and  bake  ..-a 
delicate  brown. 

Use  whites  of  3  eggs  for  meringue.  These  propor- 
tions make  one  pie. 

MRS.  0.  B.  WITTE. 


—  89  — 


BREAD,  COFFEE  CAKE, 
DOUGHNUTS,  ETC. 


Bread. 

1  quart  buttermilk;  y2  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  salt; 
1  small  cup  mashed  potatoes ;  1  yeast  cake ;  flour ;  1  pint 
warm  water. 

Scald  the  buttermilk  and  while,  hot,  add  the  sugar, 
salt  and  potatoes.  When  cool  add  the  yeast  previously 
soaked  in  warm  water.  Let  stand  twelve  or  eighteen 
hours  before  using.  Stir  hi  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter 
and  let  rise.  If  more  bread  is  wanted  when  making  up 
add  some  water  and  salt.  Let  rise  once  or  twice.  Be 
sure  and  work  well. 


1  yeast  cake  to  3  loaves;  1  quart  luke-warm  water; 
2  teaspoons  salt,  tablespoon  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  lard; 
2  quarts  flour. 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  %  qt.  warm  water,  adding 
sugar  and  y%  sieve  flour;  beat  well  and  let  stand  over 
night  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Next  morning  add  salt, 
about  V2  qt.  water,  melted  lard  and  enough  flour  to  form 
stiff  dough.  Set  aside  again  to  rise,  then  form  into 
loaves,  let  rise  again  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Glaze 
with  hot  water  or  lard. 


MRS.  A.  W.  MOURSUND. 


Light  Bread. 


—  90  — 


Brown  Bread. 

%  cup  No.  6  molasses;  2  cups  graham  flour;  1  cup 
sweet  milk;  2  level  teaspoons  soda  in  syrup ;  pinch  of 
salt;  1  cup  seeded  raisins. 

Put  in  large  baking  powder  can,  set  in  bucket  of 
water,  cover  and  steam  3  hours. 

MISS  ADA  PEDEN. 
Nut  Bread. 

1  cup  sugar ;  1  cup  nuts ;  y2  cup  sweet  milk ;  U  egg ; 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder;  4  cups  flour. 

Stir  and  put  in  pan  to  rise,  let  stand  20  minutes.  It 
will  about  double  itself.  Put  in  moderate  oven  and 
bake  1  hour  .  MISS  ADA  PEDEN. 

Buttermilk  Yeast  Cakes. 

Dissolve  1  yeast  cake  in  1  pint  of  wTarm  water,  add 
1  tablespoon  each  of  cornmeal  and  sugar  and  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.   Let  stand  over  night. 

In  the  morning  boil  1  pint  of  buttermilk,  have  ready 

1  cup  of  flour  and  water,  mixed  to  a  smooth,  stiff 
batter;  pour  this  into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  it  cook 
thoroughly,  stirring  constantly.  "When  cool  add  to  the 
yeast  cake  mixture  which  has  stood  over  night  and  set 
in  a  warm  place  until  it  ferments.  Then  work  in  corn 
meal  enough  to  make  a  tolerably  stiff  dough,  mold  into 
cakes  and  dry  in  the  shade. 

MRS.  JACOB  GOLD,SR. 
Yeast  Cakes. 

3  large  Irish  potatoes;  iy2  tablespoonfuls  of  hops; 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  %  tablespoonful  of  ginger; 
cornmeal;  l1/^  qts.  of  water;  1  cup  of  flour;  1  cup  of 
dissolved  yeast;  small  handful  of  salt. 


—  91  — 


Peel  the  potatoes  and  cook  with  the  hops,  (tied  in 
a  cloth)  in  about  l1/^  qts.  of  water.  Mash  the  potatoes, 
and  when  cool  pour  the  potato  water  over  the  cup  of 
flour.  Next  add  the  dissolved  yeast,  sugar,  salt,  ginger, 
and  the  mashed  potatoes.  Mix  well,  and  add  cornmeal 
enough  to  stiffen.  Let  rise,  then  shape  in  bulk,  and 
cut  oblong  cakes. 

MRS.  WM.  WEYRICH. 
Biscuits. 

1  qt.  of  flour;  1  tablespoonful  of  salt;  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder;  1  large  spoonful  of  butter  or 
lard;  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda;  about  y2  qt.  of  butter- 
milk or  sour  milk. 

These  biscuits  must  be  quickly  made,  not  worked. 

MRS.  P.  ROEDER. 

Biscuits. 

3  cups  flour ;  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ; 
!/2  teaspoonful  salt;  3  tablespoonfuls  lard;  %  teaspoon- 
ful soda,  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  sour  or  buttermilk.  Use 
more  milk  if  necessary. 

Roll  out,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DIETZ. 

Corn  Bread. 

2  cups  corn-meal ;  3  eggs ;  2  cups  boiling  water ;  2 
cups  sour  milk ;  2  tablespoonfuls  lard ;  1  teaspoonful 
soda. 

Scald  corn  meal  with  boiling  water  and  mix  in  other 
ingredients. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 


—  92  — 


Corn  Bread. 

2  cups  of  sifted  meal;  y2  cup  of  flour;  2  cups  of 
buttermilk  or  sour  milk;  2  eggs;  T/3  cup  of  sugar;  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt ;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter. 

Mix  the  meal  and  flour  smootly  and  gradually  add 
the  milk,  then  the  butter,  sugar  and  salt,  then  the  beaten 
eggs  and  lastly  dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  baking 
soda  in  a  little  milk  and  beat  thoroughly  together.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven.  This  recipe  can  be  made  with  sweet 
milk  by  using  baking  powder. 

MRS.  W.  J.  JUNG. 
Corn  Bread. 

2  cups  of  corn  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  2%  cups  of 
milk,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Melt  the  butter  and  stir  into  the  eggs,  which  should 
have  been  beaten  very  light,  and  after  sifting  the  salt, 
sugar  and  baking  powder  with  the  meal  and  flour,,  put 
in  the  milk,  eggs  and  butter.  Beat  hard  and  bake  for 
half  an  hour  in  a  steady  oven. 

MRS.  ELLA  SCHMIDT. 

German  Coffee  Cake. 

iy2  lb  flour;  14  lb  sugar;  y2  lb  butter;  1  cup 
raisins;  5  eggs;  1  pt.  yeast;  grated  lemon  to  flavor. 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  well  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  well  risen  make  in  loaves,  put 
in  well  greased  pans  and  let  rise  again;  then  bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

MRS.  M.  PUHL. 


—  93  — 


Rolls. 

y%  cup  butter;  1  small  cup  sugar;  3  cups  flour; 
sifted  twice  with  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der; 1/2  CUP  milk;  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Cream  butter,  eggs  and  sugar;  add  flour,  then  milk. 
Form  into  small  rolls  and  paint  with  beaten  egg. 

MRS.I  GLATZLE. 

Plain  Coffee  Cake. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  1  tablespoonful  melted 
butter;  2  eggs;  %  cup  milk;  1  cup  raisins,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  medium  stiff  dough.  At  night  set  one 
yeast  cake  with  a  pint  of  water  and  %  sieve  flour  at 
about  10  o'clock  and  let  rise  until  morning;  add  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  eggs,  butter  and  milk,  beating  well  all 
the  while.  Then  add  flour.  Set  aside  to  rise,  when 
risen  to  double  its  size  beat  down,  put  in  raisins.  Let 
rise  again  to  former  height,  brush  with  melted  butter, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  This  quantity  will 
yield  one  large  or  two  medium  loaves. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 

Doughnuts. 

1  cup  sugar;  1  teaspoon  salt;  1  cup  milk;  1  tea- 
spoon grated  orange  peel;  2  eggs;  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  1  tablespoon  butter. 

Mix  with  flour  like  soft  bread  dough,  roll  out  one 
inch  thick,  cut  into  rings,  let  rise  until  light,  then  fry 
in  hot  lard. 

IDA  HENNERSDORF. 


—  94  — 


Doughnuts. 

IV2  cups  yeast;  y2  cup  butter;  3  eggs;  iy2  cups 
sugar;  1  cup  milk;  1  teaspoonful  lemon  extract;  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Let  rise,  roll  out  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  lard. 

MRS.  RICHARD  HENKE. 

Doughnuts. 

2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  1  pt.  milk;  I  teaspoon  salt: 
1  qt.  flour;  1  grated  nutmeg;  3  teaspoonfuls  Royal 
Baking  Powder. 

Beat  well  both  sugar  and  eggs,  add  milk  and  flour 
into  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  measured.  Flour 
must  be  added  until  the  dough  can  be  handled.  Roll 
out  y2  inch  thick,  cut  in  rings  or  small  balls  and 
fry  a  rich  golden  brown  in  a  deep  kettle  of  smoking 
hot  fat. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER, 
Doughnuts. 

3  eggs;  3  tablespoons  lard;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg;  1*4 
cups  sour  cream;  11/3  cups  sugar;  5  cups  flour;  2  tea- 
spoons salt ;  V/2  teaspoons  soda, 

Beat  whole  eggs  very  lightly,  add  sugar  gradually, 
beating  constantly,  add  lard  and  continue  beating.  Mix 
and  sift  flour,  nutmeg,  salt  and  soda.  Add  flour  and 
sour  cream  alternately.  Chill  dough,  then  toss  on  a 
slightly  floured  board;  roll  y2  inch  thick  and  fry  in 
deep  lard. 

MRS.  AUG.  GOLD. 


—  95  — 


Doughnuts. 

1  cup  sugar;  2  eggs;  y2  cup  milk;  1  sifter  flour;  % 
cup  sour  cream;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 
Cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  fry  in  deep  lard. 

MRS.  A.  STAATS. 

Love  Knots. 

%  cup  well  beaten  eggs;  y2  CUP  sweet  cream;  beat 
together,  and  mix  stiff  with  flour,  roll  out  very  thin, 
then  cut  in  two  inch  squares.  These  cut  in  five  strips, 
but  not  quite  through,  leave  the  sides  together.  Then 
take  in  hand,  slip  each  strip  under  the  other,  when  last 
one  in  hand,  drop  carefully  into  hot  lard  and  bake  a 
rich  golden  brown,  take  out  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

MRS.  F.  STEIN. 

Apple  Fritters. 

1  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder;  add  1  cup  of  milk  with  yolk  of  2  eggs  stirred 
in;  add  1%  cups  chopped  apples;  last  of  all  add  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  very  light ;  drop  with  spoon  into 
very  hot  lard.   Any  fruit  can  be  used. 

MRS.  E.  C.  HANSEN. 

Graham  Gems. 

3  cups  graham  flour;  1  cup  white  flour;  2  eggs;  1 
heaping  tablespoon  melted  butter;  2  tablespoons  molas- 
ses; 1  teaspoon  salt;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  2  cups 
milk  or  water. 

Do  not  make  dough  too  stiff.  Bake  in  quick  oven 
in  gem  pans. 

GERTRUDE  WEHMEYER. 


—  96  — 


Cinnamon  RolL 

Make  a  good  biscuit  dough,  roll  thin,  then  spread 

on  the  following  mixture. 

Cream  %  pound  butter  with  1!  cup  sugar;  spread 
this  on  the  dough;  sprinkle  with  cinnamon;  roll,  cut  in 
slices,  put  in  bread  pan,  add  enough  water  to  make  juicy 
while  cooking,  serve  hot  with  sweet  milk  or  cream. 

MRS.  ED.  WINKEL. 
Parker  House  Rolls. 

1  cake  Fleischmann's  yeast  ;  1  pint  milk  scalded  and 
cooled;  2  tablespoons  sugar;  4  tablespoons  lard  or  butter 
melted;  3  pints  flour;  1  teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve  yeast 
and  sugar  in  lukewarm  milk,  add  lard  or  butter  and  1% 
pints  of  flour.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth.  Cover  and 
let  rise  in  a  warm  place  1  hour  or  until  light.  Then  add 
remainder  of  flour  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough; 
add  the  salt.  Knead  well  and  place  in  a  greased  bowl. 
Cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  1%  hours  or 
until  double  in  bulk.  Roll  out  %  inch  thick.  Brush 
lightly  with  melted  butter,  cut  with  a  2  inch  biscuit 
cutter,  crease  through  center  heavily  with  dull  edge  of 
knife  and  fold  over  in  pocket  book  shape.  Place  in  well 
greased,  shallow  pans  1  inch  apart.  Cover  and  let  rise 
until  light  about  %  hour.  Bake  ten  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

MRS.  WM.  HABENICHT. 


—  97  — 


COOKIES. 
Anise  Seed  Cookies. 

14  tb  sugar ;  y2  lb  flour ;  4  eggs ;  T  tablespoon  anise 

seed. 

Drop  in  pan  with  teaspoon. 

MRS.  HENRY  HENKE,  SR. 
Anise  Cookies. 

9  eggs;  whites  beaten  separately;  2  lb  of  sugar;  4 
teaspoons  ground  anise  seed;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  y2  an  hour  or  more.  Then 
add  enough  flour  to  roll  out.  Cut  with  tins,  put  on 
board  until  next  day.    Then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  FRANK  PETERMANN. 
Almond  Cookies. 
(Mandel  -  Kraenze.) 
%    ih  butter,  creamed;    3  yolks  of  eggs;    y>  R> 
sugar;  1  lb  flour. 

Cut  with  large  round  cutter  and  take  out  center 
with  a  smaller  one  leaving  a  circular  cookie.  Brush 
these  with  white  of  eggs  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  a  golden 
yellow  in  a  moderate  oven.  MRS.  ROEHM. 

Cream  Puffs. 
y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  flour;  1  cup  water;  3  eggs; 
Let  butter  and  water  come  to  a  boil;  while  boiling 
stir  in  the  flour;  stir  until  a  smooth  paste.  When  cool 
work  in  the  eggs.    Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  about  30  minutes. 

FILLING:  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  y2  cup  sugar;  thick- 
en with  corn  starch,  flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  M.  PUHL. 


—  98  — 


Brown  Cookies. 

4  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  3  cups  brown  sugar;  2  cups 
raisins;  2  cups  currants;  1  cup  pecans;  6  cups  of  flour; 
4  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  in  which  dissolve  2  small  tea- 
spoons soda. 

Flavor  to  suit  your  own  taste. 

MRS.  ALFRED  LEHNE. 
Cream  Puffs. 

Take  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  and  1  cupful  of 
water,  and  put  on  to  boil,  then  dump  into  this  1  cupful 
of  sifted  flour,  stir  well  until  it  loosens  from  the  sides, 
then  take  from  fire,  let  cool  off  some,  stir  in  3  eggs,  one 
after  the  other,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  beat  very  tho- 
roughly, then  let  it  rest  awhile  in  a  cool  place,  the  ice 
box  is  best  in  summer.  Then  drop  in  small  spoonfuls  in 
pans  and  bake  very  thoroughly,  or  they  will  fall.  When 
cold  cut  open,  and  fill  with  whipped  cream  or  custard. 

MISS  MARY  STEIN. 
Cream  Puffs. 

Boil  with  a  large  cupful  of  hot  water,  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  butter,  stirring  in  one  teacupful  of  flour, 
during  the  boiling.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  stir 
in  4  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Drop  on  tins  quickly 
and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven. 

FILLING:  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  1  egg;  1  tea- 
cupful  of  sugar;  stir  this  into  a  cupful  of  milk  while 
boiling.    Flavor  to  taste.       MRS.  AUG.  CAMERON. 
Cookies  with  Raisins. 

1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  lard;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  1 
beaten  egg;  3  cups  flour  sifted  with  3  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder. 


—  99  — 


Cream  sugar  and  shortening;  add  slowly  other 
ingredients;  roll  out  thin,  cut  out,  and  place  in  pan. 
Put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  filling  on  each  cookie,  place 
another  cookie  on  top  and  bake. 

For  filling  mix  together  %  CUP  sugar;  1  table- 
spoon flour ;  1  cup  boiling  water ;  l1  cup  raisins,  chopped. 
Cook  until  thickened. 

MRS.  C.  F.  TATSCH. 
Cookies. 

5  eggs;  1%  cup  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter  or  lard; 
2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dough. 

Extract  or  spices  for  flavoring. 

IRMA  OCHS. 

Chocolate  Cookies. 

1  cupful  of  sugar;  2  eggs;  7  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour;  iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  1  cupful  of 
chopped  pecans;  y2  cake  sweet  chocolate,  grated;  salt. 

Beat  eggs  lightly,  add  pinch  of  salt  and  sugar; 
beat  again;  add  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted,  choco- 
late and  the  pecans.  Drop  little  balls  on  buttered  pans 
and  bake  slowly. 

MRS.  OTTO  DITTMAR. 
Chocolate  Cookies. 

3  eggs;  iy2  cup  sugar;  iy2  cup  flour;  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  10c  cake  German  Sweet  Chocolate 
grated.  Beat  eggs  thoroughly  and  again  with  the  sugar, 
then  add  the  grated  chocolate  and  lastly  flour  and 
baking  powder.  Drop  by  spoon  on  buttered  tins  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  A.  WALTER. 


—  100  — 


Chocolate  Jumbles. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  2  eggs;  1  cup  grated 
chocolate;  3  cups  flour;  1  cup  nuts;  y2  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  roll  in  little  balls  and  bake. 

MRS.  A.  H.  KNEESE. 

Christmas  Cakes. 

1  lb  flour;  y2  lb  sugar;  14  ^  butter;  4  eggs. 
Sift  flour  and  sugar  together,  rub  in  the  butter 

and  then  the  eggs.  Roll  "out  very  thin,  cut  in  squares 
and  bake. 

MRS.  HENRY  HENKE,  SR. 

Chocolate  Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  tablespoonful  butter;  3  eggs,  beaten 
separately;  2  cups  flour;  y>  R>  Bakers  chocolate;  1  cup 
pecans;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

MRS.  WM.  BIERSCHWALE. 

Chocolate  Cookies. 

1  cup  chocolate;  1  cup  sugar;  1  cup  grated  cocoa- 
nut;  I1  cup  sweet  crackers;  2  eggs;  2  tablespoonfuls 
butter. 

Mix  all  and  drop  from  spoon  on  buttered  tins; 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  H.  KALLENBERG. 

Date  Cookies. 

1  cup  brown  sugar;  %  cup  milk;  1  cup  butter  or 
lard;  2  cups  oatmeal;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

For  filling  boil  %  CUP  sugar;  1  cup  water  and  1  lb 
of  dates  until  smooth,  stirring  continually.    Roll  out 


-  101  — 


dough,  indicated  above,  cut  with  cookie  cutter,  spread 
Jone  cookie  with  the  date-paste,  and  cover  with  another 
round  of  dough.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLME1ER. 
Cocoanut  Cookies. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  1  cup  grated 
cocoanut ;  1  teaspoon  vanilla ;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  flour  enough  to  roll  out  dough. 

Bake  light  brown. 

MRS.  JOE  STEIN. 
Cocoanut  Cookies. 

¥2  cllP  butter;  2  eggs;  2  cups  sugar;  2  cups  cocoa- 
nut  ;  2  cups  flour ;  1  teaspoon  vanilla ;  y2  teaspoon  baking 
powd,er. 

t)rop  on  buttered  tins  with  a  teaspoon. 

MRS.  EMIL  BAETHGE. 
Date  Kisses. 

The  whites  of  2  eggs ;  1  cup  powdered  sugar ;  1  cup 
rolled  pecans;  1  cup  chopped  dates. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat 
again.  Then  stir  in  pecans  and  dates.  Drop  from 
teaspoon  in  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  delicate  brown. 

MISS  ZULA  MAE  HILL. 
Fruit  Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup  raisins; 
2  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk ;  1  teaspoonful  soda,  dis- 
solved in  the  sour  milk;  1  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg 
and  cloves;  flour  enough  to  roll. 

MRS.  H.  K  ALLEN  BERG  . 
MRS.  ALB.  STAATS. 


—  102  — 


Fruit  Cookies. 

1  cupful  of  butter;  2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  %  cupful 
sweet  milk;  3  cupfuls  of  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  4  eggs;  2  cupfuls  of  currants;  2  of  raisins; 
2  of  pecans;  y2  cup  of  orange-peel;  1  wine  glass  of 
whiskey  or  wine;  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  cinnamon 
and  all  kinds  of  spices. 

Make  up  as  any  cake,  flouring  the  fruit  as  for  fruit 
cake.  Make  a  stiff  batter  and  drop  on  pan  from  spoon. 
These  little  cakes  are  delicious.. 

MRS.  FELIX  W.  MAIER, 

White  Lebkuchen. 

1  lb  sugar;  4  eggs;  2  cupfuls  pecans;  *4  teaspoonful 
of  cloves;  y2  teaspoonful  nutmeg. 

Stir  sugar  and  eggs  for  one  half  hour  (adding  one 
egg  at  a  time) ;  then  add  cloves,  nutmeg  and  pecans, 
also  flour  enough  to  make  the  dough  stiff  enough  to 
roll  out  and  cut.    Bake  a  light  brown. 

MRS.  W  J.  JUNG. 

Hermits. 

1  cup  of  butter;  iy2  cups  of  sugar;  3  eggs;  y2  cup 
of  molasses;  1  teaspoonful  soda;  1  cup  of  each,  raisins 
and  currants;  1  cup  pecans;  1  teaspoonful  of  each 
ginger,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice;  flour  enough  to 
roll  out  soft. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER. 

Hermits. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  of  stoned 
and  chopped  raisins;  3  eggs;  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda, 


—  103  — 


dissolved  in  3  tablespoon  sful  of  milk;  1  nutmeg;  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves  and  cinnamon;  5  cups  of  flour. 

MRS.  W.  H.  KUSENBERGER, 

MRS.  AD.  SCHMIDT. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  egg;  1  cup  molasses;  1  tablespoon 
ginger;  1  cup  butter  or  lard;  1  cup  hot  water;  1  tea- 
spoon soda,dissolved  in  water;  flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

MRS.  A.  KUENEMANN. 

Macaroons. 

1  lb  finely  chopped  pecans;  1  ib  sugar;  unbeaten 
whites  of  4  eggs;  grated  rind  of  y2  lemon  or  a  little 
cinnamon. 

Mix  the  ingredients,  drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  a  well 
greased  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  CHAS.  NIMITZ. 

Lebkuchen. 

1  lb  dark  brown  sugar;  14  gal.  black  molasses,  *4 
ib  butter;  14  lb  citron;  14  glass  whiskey;  1%  lb  of 
pecans;  iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  cooking  soda;  1  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  and  allspice;  grated  rind 
of  1  orange  and  2  lemons;  y2  10  of  flour  to  start. 

Flour,  spices,  peeling  mixed.    Pecans  not  chopped. 

Let  molasses  come  to  a  boil,  melt  in  butter  and 
sugar,  let  this  cool  off,  add  whiskey  and  soda,  pour  over 
dry  part  mixing  quickly  and  add  flour  to  make  good 
stiff  dough.  Let  stand  until  next  day.  Add  flour  to 
roll  out,  bake  and  ice. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 


—  104  — 


Pecan  Macaroons. 

1  lb  of  pecans;  14  lb  citron;  %  lb  sugar;  grated 
peel  of  one  orange ;  1  nutmeg ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ; 
whites  of  6  eggs;  beaten  yolks  of  one;  1  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder;  flour  enough  to  make  it  roll  easily;  1  wine 
glass  brandy. 

Brash  with  yolks  before  baking. 

MRS.  HERMAN  GOLDSCHMIDT. 

Oatmeal  Cookies  (Without  Eggs). 

1  cupful  sugar;  1  cupful  molasses;  1  cupful  lard; 
Sy2  cupfuls  flour;  4  cupfuls  of  uncooked  oatmeal;  2 
teaspoonfuls  cinnamon. 

Dissolve  2  teaspoonfuls  of  soda  in  V2  cup  boiling 
water.    Mix  well  and  form  small  cookies  with  the  hand. 

MRS.  ALVIN  STRIEGLER. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  1^  cups  of  butter;  1  teaspoonful 
soda;  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  2  cups  of  flour;  2  cups  of 
oatmeal;  2  cups  of  currants;  4  eggs. 

MRS.  C.  W.  Feuge. 

Oatmeal  Macaroons. 

1  cupful  of  sugar;  V2  cupful  of  butter;  mix  well. 
2  well  beaten  eggyolks;  y2  cup  of  cocoanut ;  y2  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoonful  of  hot 
water;  1  cup  of  flour;  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  poAvder. 
Lastly  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Drop  from 
teaspoon  on  well  greased  pans.    Bake  12  to  15  minutes. 

MRS.  G.  H.  HOUY. 


—  105  — 


Chocolate  Macaroons. 

12  sweet  crackers ;  2  cups  of  sugar ;  lOc-cake  of 
chocolate ;  2  cups  of  pecans ;  whites  of  6  large  or  7 
small  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  grated 
chocolate,  then  the  finely  chopped  pecans  and  the 
mashed  crackers.  Drop  on  buttered  paper,  with  a  tea- 
spoon. 

MBS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 

German  Nut  Cakes. 

%  R>  butter;  y2  lb  sugar;  1  lb  flour;  yolks  of 
3  eggs. 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  egg 
yolks,  lastly  the  flour. 

Roll  out  on  board,  spread  with  the  beaten  whites, 
some  chopped  nut  meats,  cinnamon,  and  sugar.  Cut 
into  squares  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MRS.  R.  L.  KOTT. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  4  eggs;  iy2  cups  lard;  3  cups  oat- 
meal ;  3  cups  flour ;  %  cups  raisins,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon; %  cups  currants;  1  teaspoon  soda. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 

Pecan  Cookies. 

1  lb  sugar;  1  lb  flour;  6  eggs;  1  cup  pecans;  1  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder. 

MRS.  A.  KUENEMANN. 


—  106  — 


Pfeffer-Nuesse.    (Pepper  Cookies.) 

1  lb  sugar;  6  eggs;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ;  1  tea- 
spoon cloves;  1  pinch  black  pepper;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder;  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough. 

Cut  out  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  HENRY  HENKE,  SR. 
Pfeffer-Nuesse. 
(German  Cookies.) 
4  eggs;  3  cups  flour;  4  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon;  2 
cups  sugar ;  1  cup  pecans ;  2  teaspoonfuls  cloves ;  2  table- 
spoons butter;  2  nutmeg;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 
Pecan  Cookies. 
White  of  5  eggs;  y2  lb  of  sugar;  y2  lb  of  pecans, 
finely  chopped;  1  sweet  cracker  and  a  little  baking 
powder. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  bak- 
ing powder,  mixed  with  the  crumbed  cracker,  and  last 
the  pecans.  Drop  from  spoon  on  a  well  preased  pan. 

MRS.  R.  BLUM. 

Pecan  Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  yolks  of  10  eggs;  1  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon ;  2  cups  of  pecans ;  y2  cup  of  finely  chopped 
citron;  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  in  pan 
with  a  teaspoon.  MRS.  R,  G.  STRIEGLER. 

Pecan  Cookies. 

y2  cup  of  pecans ;  1  cup  of  sugar ;  1%  cups  of  flour ; 
1  cake  of  chocolate;  3  large  or  4  small  eggs;  1  level 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and 
spices. 


—  107  — 


Bake  in  shallow  long  tins,  when  done  cut  into  any 
shape  desired  and  ice. 

MRS.  GEORGE  WRIGHT. 
Springerle. 

1  lb  flour;  4  large  eggs;  1  lb  sugar;  butter  size  of 
a  walnut;  enough  potash  to  cover  the  point  of  a  large 
knife  blade  twice  (you  may  take  baking  powder  in- 
stead) and  anise  seed. 

Sift  flour  and  sugar.  Then  stir  butter,  sugar  and 
eggs  and  potash  (which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk)  for  15  minutes.  Add  the  flour  as  much  as  will 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll  out  dough  until  about  half 
as  thick  as  your  finger.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  press 
the  patterns  on  the  doug]^,  then  cut  or  separate  the 
cakes  with  a  dough  cutter  and  place  on  a  board  covered 
with  anise  seed,  or  use  anise  oil.  Keep  in  a  dry  place 
over  night  and  the  next  morning  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  a  light  yellow. 

MRS.  O.  W.  STRIEGLER. 
Sugar  Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  y2  cup  lard;  5  eggs;  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder;  flour  enough  to  roll. 

ROSA  DECHERT. 

Rock  Cookies. 

iy2  cups  brown  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  3y2  cups  flour; 
1  cup  pecans;  1  cup  raisins;  y2  lb  dates;  4  eggs;  1  tea- 
spoonful  cinnamon;  1  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

MRS.  A.  KUENEMANN, 
MRS.  WM.  BIERSCHWALE. 


—  108  — 


Sugar  Cookies. 

iy2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  2  large  tablespoonfuls 
milk;  y2  cup  butter;  3  cups  flour;  1  teaspoonful  baking 
powder;  1  teaspoonful  vanilla;  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

MRS.  A.  D.  STAHL. 
Zimmetsterne.    (Very  Good.) 

1  lb  sifted  sugar;  whites  of  6  eggs;  1  lt>  almonds; 
1/8  oz.  cinnamon;  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 

The  almonds  should  be  washed,  dried,  and  then 
grated  with  the  brown  skin  left  on.  Stir  the  sugar  and 
lemon  peel  into  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  con- 
tinue beating  for  15  minutes,  then  add  the  cinnamon. 
Reserve  a  small  part  of  this  mixture  for  top  of  cakes, 
then  to  the  large  portion  add  the  almonds.  Roll  out 
about  1/8  inch  in  thickness,  using  only  as  much  flour  as 
necessary.  Cut  with  star  shaped  cutter,  brush  each 
cookie  with  the  reserved  white  of  egg  mixture  and  bake 
slowly  on  well  greased  pans. 

MRS.  ROEHM. 

Small  Tea  Cakes. 

5  eggs;  iy2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter  or  lard;  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  spices  or  extract, 

The  dough  must  be  worked  lightly,  rolled  out,  cut 
with  a  cake-cutter  and  baked  in  a  moderately  hot  stove. 

IRMA  OCHS. 

Wiener  Zollen. 

2  cups  sugar ;  4  eggs ;  1  cup  pecans ;  1  nutmeg ;  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon;  y2  teaspoonful  cloves;  iy2  teaspoon 
baking  powder:  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
cut  in  half  moons  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

MRS.  F.  W.  ARHELGER. 


—  109  — 


Wiener  Zollen. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  4  eggs;  1  lemon  rind  and  juice; 
a  little  cinnamon  and  cardamon;  %  cup  of  finely 
chopped  citron;  1  cup  of  nut  meats;  3  cups  of  flour; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Roll  in  sugar.  Bake  in 
slow  oven. 

MRS.  WALTER  MECKEL. 

Molasses  Cookies  (Christmas.) 

1  quart  molasses;  1  quart  sugar;  1  quart  pecans;  1 
large  spoon  of  lard;  1  tablespoon  of  cinnamon;  1  tea- 
spoon of  cloves;  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Heat  sugar  and  molasses  until  the  molasses  has 
melted,  when  cool  stir  in  the  other  ingredients  and  mix 
well,  then  roll  and  cut  into  shapes  with  a  knife.  Let 
lay  over  night.  Bake  the  next  morning.  Apply  icing 
when  cold. 

MRS.  R.  C.  LUDWIG. 

Buttermilk  Cookies. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter  or  lard;  1  cup  butter- 
milk; !  teaspoon  soda;  1  box  cocoanut  or  1  teaspoon 
Extract.    Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

MRS.  ELLA  SCHMIDT. 

White  Cookies  without  Eggs. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed;  1  cup 
sour  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  5  cups  flour;  roll  out  thin; 
sprinkle  top  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

MRS.  MAX  SCHOENEWOLF. 


—  110  — 

Butter  Cookies. 

5  eggs;  2  lb  sugar;  y±  lb  butter;  %  K>  lard,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Flour  enough 
to  roll  out.   Cut  in  squares  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

MRS.  FRANK  PETERMANN. 

Vanilla  Wafers. 

Cream  1/3  cup  shortening  (using  butter  and  lard  in 
equal  proportion  or  all  butter)  and  add  gradually  while 
beating  constantly,  one  cup  sugar,  then  add  1  egg  well 
beaten,  14  cup  milk  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla.  Mix  and 
sift  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 
y2  teaspoon  salt.  Add  to  first  mixture,  roll  out  on  a 
floured  board  as  thinly  as  possible  shape  with  a  small 
round  cutter.  Place  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

MRS.  WM.  HABENICHT. 
Lebkuc&en. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  8  eggs,  the  whites  of 
two  of  them  kept  back  for  icing;  1  cup  molasses;  1% 
plate  German  Sweet  Chocolate;  y2  cup  of  cut  citron; 
1  cup  cut  almonds;  1  cup  pecans;  3  cups  flour;  2  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  1  teaspoonful  of  each 
cinnaman,  cloves,  allspice,  nutmeg. 

This  is  to  be  baked  in  an  18  inch  pan,  when  cool  cut 
into  2  inch  squares  and  cover  with  icing. 

MRS.  R.  C.  LUDWIG. 

Graham  Nut  Cookies. 

Cream  iy2  cups  sugar  and  2/3  cups  lard.  Add  2 
eggs  well  beaten;  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
and  salt;  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  %  cup 


—  Ill  — 


sour  milk;  1  cup  nuts  chopped  fine;  1  cup  shredded 
cocoanut.  Stir  in  2V2  cups  sifted  graham  flour  and  drop 
from  teaspoon  on  greased  tins. 

ELLA  EVEES. 

Peanut  Cookies. 

3  tablespoons  shortening;  V2  cup  sugar;  1  egg; 
teaspoon  salt ;  %  cup  peanuts,  roasted  and  chopped  fine ; 
l1  cup  flour;  2  tablespoons  milk;  y2  teaspoon  soda;  juice 
of  y2  lemon. 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs.  Sift 
flour,  salt  and  soda,  add  to  other  ingredients.  Then 
add  milk,  peanuts  and  lemon  juice.  Drop  from  tea- 
spoon, on  greased  tins. 

MRS.  WALTER  MECKEL. 


—  112  — 


Layer  Cakes. 


Caramel  Cake. 


iy2  cups  sugar;  y2  CUP  butter;  yolks  of  2  eggs; 
1  cup  water;  2  cups  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  cool  caramel 
syrup ;  1  teaspoonful  vanilla ;  y2  cup  flour :  2  teaspoon- 
fuls baking  powder;  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs. 

Mix  well  the  first  five  ingredients,  adding  the 
others  as  given.  The  cake  may  be  baked  as  a  layer  cake 
in  a  moderate  oven,  and  put  together  with  the  follow- 
ing filling. 

FILLING:  1  cup  sugar;  14  cup  Avater;  white  of  1 
egg ;  V-2  teaspoonful  vanilla ;  1  teaspoonful  caramel 
syrup. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  the  syrup  spins  a  thread, 
add  it  to  the  beaten  white,  continue  beating,  adding  the 
vanilla  and  the  caramel  syrup. 

CARAMEL  SYRUP:    1  cup  sugar;  i/2  cup  boiling 


Put  the  sugar  in  a  sauce  pan  on  the  fire;  stir 
constantly  until  it  is  a  brown  color,  take  from  the  fire, 
add  water,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissilved. 


2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  y2  cupful  of  butter;  1  cupful  of 
milk;  yolks  of  three  eggs;  whites  of  two;  2%  cupfuls 
of  flour;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  %  cupful 
of  grated  chocolate. 


water. 


HELENE  HANISCH. 


Chocolate  Cake. 


—  113  — 


Melt  chocolate,  add  half  cupful  of  milk;  when 
thoroughly  mixed  Jet  cool.  Cream  sugar  and  butter, 
add  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then  the  whites,  and  remaining 
y2  cup  of  milk.  Add  flour  with  the  baking*  powder, 
then  the  chocolate.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING:  1  cupful  of  sugar;  1/3  cupful  of  milk; 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter;  boil  5  minutes.  Beat  until 
cool,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  between 
layers. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAU  SEN . 

Delicious  Chocolate  Cake. 

8  eggs,  the  white  beaten  stiff;  2  cups  of  sugar;  1 
cake  of  sweet  chocolate;  1  cup  of  butter;  3  cups  of 
flour;  1  cup  of  milk;  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream ;  add  the  milk, 
then  flour  and  beaten  whites.  Divide  into  equal  parts 
and  into  half  grate  a  cake  ot  sweet  chocolate.  Bake 
in  layers,  spread  with  custard  and  alternate  the  dark 
and  white  layers. 

FOR  CUSTARD:  1  tablespoon  of  butter;  1  pint 
of  milk,  let  boil  together;  then  stir  in  2  eggs,  beaten 
with  1  cup  of  sugar  and  2  teaspoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  ;  then  boil  all  and  spread 
on  cake. 

MRS.  G.  E.  WRIGHT. 

Devil's  Food  Cake.   No.  1. 

PART  1 :  1  cup  brown  sugar ;  1  cup  grated 
chocolate;  x/2  euP  sweet  milk> 

Allow  mixture  to  come  to  a  boil  and  set  aside  to 

cool. 


—  114  — 


PART  2:  1  cup  brown  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  y2 
cup  sweet  milk;  3  yolks  of  eggs;  2  cups  flour;  2 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Mix  in  the  usual  manner  and  add  to  part  1,  bake  in 
layers  and  spread  with  soft  chocolate  icing. 

MISS  BERTHA  PRIESS. 

Devil's  Food  Cake.    No.  2. 

2  cupfuls  brown  or  white  sugar;  y2  cup  butter; 
Y2  cup  lard;  2  eggs;  1  cup  buttermilk;  3  cups  flour; 
iy2  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon;  y2  teaspoon  allspice;  y2 
cake  of  ground  chocolate,  with  enough  hot  water  to 
make  y2  cup;  y2  teaspoon  soda. 

Mix  all  together  and  bake  in  four  layers.  Put 
together  with  cooked  icing. 

MRS.  ALVIN  STRIEGLER. 

Devil's  Food  Cake.   No.  3. 

y2  cup  butter;  iy2  cups  sugar;  2  eggs;  y2  cup  sour 
milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon  vanilla; 
2  squares  of  chocolate. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  the  beaten  eggs,  the 
soda  dissolved  in  the  same  milk  ,flour,  flavoring,  and 
lastly  stir  into  the  batter  the  chocolate  dissolved  in 
y2  cup  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put 
together  with  white  frosting. 

MRS.  AUCr.  JORDAN. 

Devil's  Food  Cake  (Layer).  No.  4. 

5  eggs  beaten  separately;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup 
butter;  2  cups  flour;  1  small  cup  grated  chocolate 
(bitter),  dissolved  in  boiling  water;  1  level  teaspoonful 
of  soda. 


—  115  — 


Mix  well  the  beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  butter,  then 
add  1  cup  milk.  Sift  soda  and  flour  together  and  stir 
into  mixture.  Add  the  chocolate  and  lastly  fold  in  the 
whites.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  chocolate 
filling. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING:  1  cup  sugar;  %  cup 
sweet  milk ;  3  tablespoon  grated  chocolate  (bitter) ; 
a  pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  until  it  will  cream,  then  remove  from  fire  and 
beat  hard  till  it  is  thick  enough  to  spread. 

MRS.  A.  D.  STAHL. 

Pineapple  Cake. 

iy2  cups  powdered  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  i/2  cup 
sweet  milk;  y2  cup  cornstarch;  iy2  cups  flour;  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Mix  the  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  add  the  milk, 
then  add  the  flour,  cornstarch  and  baking  powder  well 
mixed  and  sifted,  last  add  the  whites  of  8  eggs  beaten. 

FILLING:  1  can  of  grated  pineapple;  1  cup  sugar. 

Boil  to  a  thick  jelly  and  let  cool.  Make  a  boiled 
icing  of  3  cups  sugar;  %  cup  water  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs. 

MRS.  SCHWARZ. 

Graham  Cracker  Layer  Cake. 

28  graham  crackers  ,rolled  and  mixed  with  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar 
creamed  with  butter;  3  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
separately;  %  cup  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Bake  15  minutes. 

MRS.  MAX  BIERSCHWALE. 
MRS.  G.  L.  STEBBINS. 


—  116  — 


Jam  Cake, 

3  eggs;  1  cup  of  sugar;  %  cup  of  butter;  V/2  cups 
of  flour;  1  cup  jam;  4  tablespoonfuls  sour  milk;  1  teat 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  sour  milk. 

Adding  jam  last. 

For  flavoring  a  little  cinnamon,  allspice  and  nut- 
meg.  Bake  in  layers. 

FILLING:  2  cups  of  sugar;  2/3  cupful  of  milk; 
butter  the  size  of  a  pecan.  Boil  4  minutes,  then  beat 
to  a  soft  creamy  mixture.  MRS.  F.  MORGAN. 

Plain  Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar;  1  tablespoon  butter;  3  eggs;  %  cup 
milk;  2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  1  cup  flour. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
beaten  well,  then  milk,  flour  and  baking  powder. 

This  makes  2  layers.   Use  any  icing  preferred. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 
Plain  Layer  Cake. 

%  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  (cream  butter  and 
sugar) ;  5  whole  eggs  (add  2  at  a  time  and  beat  tho- 
roughly);  1  cup  sweet  milk;  3  cups  flour;  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder  and  flavor  to  taste. 

LEMON  ICING  :  2  cups  sugar ;  yolks  of  4  to  6  eggs ; 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter;  1  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour;  1  tablespoonful  of  water;  juice  of 
iy2  lemon.    Cook  in  double  boiler. 

MRS.  FELIX  KEIDEL. 
Layer  Cream  Cake. 
1  cup  butter;  4  eggs;  1  cup  milk;  3  cups  flour;  2 
cups  granulated  sugar;  I  teaspoonful  baking  powder; 

2  cups  fresh  cream. 


—  117  — 


Mix  the  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  well, 
then  stir  in  the  milk.  Add  the  flour  and  baking  powder, 
and  the  well  beaten  whites  last.  (Enough  for  4 
layers. ) 

FILLING:  Whip  the  cream  and  stiffen  with 
sugar  and  put  between  the  layers  when  they  are  tho- 
roughly cool. 

MRS.  WM.  WAHBMUND. 
Layer  Cream  Cake. 

%  cup  butter;  IV2  cup  sugar;  3  eggs;  1  cup  milk; 
2y2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon 
any  kind  of  flavoring. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
beating  well,  then  milk,  flour,  baking  powder  and  flavor. 

FILLING:  Whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored 
to  taste. 

MRS.  LOUIS  KOTT. 
Lemon  Jelly  Cake. 

iy2  cups  sugar;  V2  cup  milk;  y2  cup  butter;  2y2 
cups  flour;  3  eggs;  y2  cup  pecans;  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder;  1  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  lemon. 

FILLING:  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  pecans;  2  eggs;  2 
teaspoonfuls  flour;  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons; 
2  tablespoonfuls  water. 

Boil  until  it  thickens,  add  pecans,  cool,  and  spread 
between  layers.  E.  LOUDON. 

Pecan  Layer  Cake. 

4  eggs;  y2  tb  butter;  y2  lb  sugar;  V2  K>  flour;  y2 
lb  pecans;  'y2  cup  milk;  1'  teaspoon  cinnamon;  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

MRS.  H.  W.  BRAEUT1GAM. 


—  118  — 


Mahtgany  Cake. 

Dissolve  2  oz.  of  chocolate  in  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water;  cream  y2  cup  butter  with  iy2  cups 
sugar.  Add  to  this  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  and 
the  cooled  chocolate;  next  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk;  1% 
cups  flour,  containing  2  rounded  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake 
in  3  layers. 

FILLING :  Cream  3  cups  powdered  sugar  with 
%  CUP  butter ;  yolk  of  1  egg ;  2  tablespoonfuls  powdered 
chocolate  mixed  with  5  tablespoonfuls  strong  hot  coffee; 
stir  well,  add  2  teaspoonfuls  vanilla  and  2  teaspoonfuls 
cream.  Beat  until  smooth  and  light.  Do  not  cook  this 
filling. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DURST. 

Orange  Cake. 

y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  milk;  iy2  cups 
flour;  3  eggs  (whites  only);  %  teaspoonful  baking 
powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  well,  beat  whites  of  eggs 
and  add  alternately  with  flour,  baking  powder  and 
milk  to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 

FILLING:  1  orange;  y2  lemon;  %  cup  milk;  3 
eggs;  3  tablespoonfuls  sugar;  y2  tablespoonful  butter;  1 
tablespoonful  flour;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  stir 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes.  Re- 
move from  stove  and  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
1  orange  and  the  juice  of  y2  lemon,  and  yolks  of  3 
eggs. 

MRS.  HUGO  BORGFELD. 


—  119  — 


One  Egg  Cake. 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  1  egg; 
1  cup  milk;  2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
1  teaspoon  extract.  Bake  in  pan  or  in   two  layers. 

ICING:  1  cup  milk;  1  cup  sugar;  %  cup  cocoanut; 
y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

MRS.  WERNER  KEIDEL. 
MRS.  ALFRED  HENKE. 

Plain  Cocoanut  Layer  Cake, 

1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  milk;  3  tablespoonfuls  butter; 
1  cup  flour;  2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
1  teaspoon  vanilla;  4  eggs. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
then  milk  and  flour  into  which  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted.    This  quantity  makes  2  layers. 

ICING:  Beat  2  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth; 
add  six  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  spread  on  layers,  sprinkle 
with  cocoanut  and  set  into  stove  to  brown. 

MRS.  ROBERT  BLUM. 

Spice  Cake. 

4  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  2;  2  cups  of  brown 
sugar;  y2  cup  of  melted  butter;  y2  cup  of  sour  milk; 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon; 
iy2  teaspoonfuls  of  cloves;  y2  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg; 

2  cups  of  flour. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk.   Bake  in  layers. 
Make  the  icing  to  spread  between  layers,  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 


—  120  — 


Sponge  Cake. 

3  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  3  tablespoons  water;  1  cup 
flour;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  eggs  separately,  then  add  sugar  and  water, 
then  add  flour  with  baking  powder. 

This  makes  2  layers. 

MRS.  ALFRED  LEHNE. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake* 

2  cups  of  flour;  *4  cup  of  butter;  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  several  times,  then 
put  in  the  butter  and  mix  well  with  fingers.  Now  add 
milk  enough  to  make  a  dough,  stiff  to  roll. 

Bake  in  a  very  hot  oven.  When  done  split  cake 
horizontally,  and  butter  both  parts  well.  Now  spread 
the  lower  part  with  berries  and  sugar,  put  on  the  top 
and  dust  Avith  powdered  sugar. 

Serve  with  crushed  berries  and  cream. 

Peaches  and  other  fruits  may  be  used  with  this  cake. 

MRS.  AD.  WEHMEYER. 

White  Layer  Cake. 

V%  ^p  butter,  creamed  with  1  cup  sugar;  %  cup 
milk;  1%  cups  flour;  iy2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder; 
3  whites  of  eggs,  stiffly  beaten. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  3  layers. 

FILLING  :  Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  with  1  cup  of 
water  until  it  threads  from  a  fork.  Pour  over  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs ;  add  1  cup  of  chopped  pecans 
and  1  cup  of  raisins. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DURST. 


—  121  — 


White  Cocoanut  Cake  with  Yellow  Filling'. 

The  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  1% 
cupful  of  sugar ;  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk ;  3  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder-  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
moderately  stiff  dough.   Bake  in  layers. 

FILLING  :  Take  %  cupful  of  sugar  and  i  table- 
spoon of  water ;  let  dissolve  and  then  boil  till  its  threads. 
Add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  the  juice  of 
2  oranges.  Spread  between  the  layers,  sprinkle  cocoa- 
nut  on  top.  (y4  of  a  lemon  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
oranges.) 

MRS.  EDNA  ALSTON. 

White  Layer  Cake. 

Whites  of  6  eggs;  2  cups  of  sugar;  %  cup  of 
butter;  1  cup  of  sweet  milk;  3  cups  of  flour;  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  flour  sifted 
twice  with  baking  powder;  add  milk  and  when  mixed, 
add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  four  layers. 

FILLING:  %  CUP  milk;  2  cups  sugar;  the  whites 
of  2  eggs;  %  cup  pecans;  raisins  and  currants. 

Boil  milk  and  sugar  till  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Have  ready  the  wrhites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff  and  pour  syrup  over  them,  beating  well  till 
cool.  Then  add  pecans,  raisins  and  currants  and  spread 
between  layers. 

MISS  ALVINA  COLD. 


—  122  — 


Wedding  Cake.  (Braut-Torte.) 

1  cup  butter;  1  cup  chopped  pecans;  1  cup  sugar; 
6  eggs;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  vanilla  flavor;  2^4 
cups  flour;  2  to  3  spoons  water. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  water, 
pecans,  finally  whites  of  eggs  and  flour  in  which 
baking  powder  has  been  sifted  alternately.  Bake  in 
hot  oven,  in  four  layers. 

FILLING:  14  R)  butter;  %  lb  sugar;  4  yolks  of 
eggs;  juice  of  4  lemons.  Beat  over  fire  constantly. 
Ice  cake  with  cooked  icing. 

MRS.  FRITZ  KNUST. 
MRS.  O.  W.  STRIEGLER. 

Cracker  Cake. 

4  eggs;  2  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  of 
milk;  !  cup  of  soda  crackers;  1  cup  of  pecans;  1  cup 
flour;  1  teaspoonful  of  extract;  iy2  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder. 

ICING:  1  cup  hot  water;  1  cup  sugar;  yolk  of 
1  egg;  1  lemon;  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch;  1  teaspoon- 
ful butter. 

MRS.  ALFRED  HENKE. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake. 

3  eggs;  1  cup  sugar;  2  tablespoons  butter;  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  2  cups  sugar. 

WHITE  FILLING:  2  cups  sugar;  %  cup  sweet 
milk.  Cook  5  minutes,  then  add  1  teaspoon  butter  and 
1  teaspoon  flavoring.  Take  from  oven  and  beat  till 
creamy.    Spread  on  cake  quickly  before  it  hardens. 

MRS.  EMIL  KOLMEIER. 


—  123  — 


Illinois  Cake. 

5  eggs;  2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  1  cupful  of  butter;  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  3  cupfuls  of  flour,  and 
1  cupful  of  sweet  milk.   Flavor  with,  vanilla. 

FILLING:  1  cupful  of  sugar  and  enough  water  to 
dissolve  the  sugar;  put  in  a  pan  and  let  simmer  on  the 
stove  until  it  candies.  Then  chop  fine,  1  cupful  of 
seedless  raisins.  Stir  into  the  candied  sugar,  then  add 
the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

MRS.  AD.  GOLD. 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  milk;  3%  cups 
flour;  whites  of  3  eggs;  1  teaspoon  rose  water;  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder. 

FILLING:  3  cups  sugar;  1  cup  boiling  water;  l1 
cup  chopped  raisins;  1  cup  nut  meats;  5  figs,  cut  in  thin 
slices,  whites  of  3  eggs. 

MRS.  WM.  KUENEMANN. 
Potato  Cake. 

1  cup  butter ;  2  cups  sugar ;  4  eggs ;  1  cooked  potato ; 
!/o  cup  sweet  milk;  1  cup  chopped  pecans;  %  cup 
chocolate;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon;  i/>  teaspoon  cloves;  y2 
teaspoon  nutmeg;  2  cups  flour;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  FILLING:  */2  lb  sugar; 
14  lb  grated  chocolate;  V>  cup  sweet  milk;  butter,  size 
of  an  egg.  Mix  and  cook  to  a  syrup  stiff  enough  to 
spread. 

MRS.  AUG.  JORDAN. 


—  124  — 


Potato  Cake. 

2y2  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of  butter:  y2  cup  of 
potatoes,  (mashed)  ;  y2  cup  of  milk;  y2  cup  of  grated 
chocolate;  214  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon;  5  eggs;  1 
cup  pecans.    Bake  in  three  layers. 

FILLING:  2  cups  sugar:  2/3  cup  milk;  butter  the 
size  of  a  pecan.  Boil  for  4  minutes,  then  add  y2  cup 
pecan  meats  :  y2  cup  raisins;  y2  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
until  creamy.  MRS.  ELLA  SCHMIDT. 

MRS.  WM.  KALLENBERG. 
Frosting  for  Angel  Food. 

1  cup  of  sugar;  14  cup  of  milk;  a  small  piece  of 
butter;  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Dampen  sugar  with  the  milk.  Stir  till  it  dissolves 
and  boil.  Then  let  it  boil  about  five  minutes,  not  longer; 
remove  from  fire,  set  in  a  dish  containing  cold  water, 

add  flavor.    Stir  till  it  stiffens,  then  spread  quickly  on 

cake  as  it  hardens  rapidly. 

MRS.  EMIL  RILEY. 

Marshmallow  Frosting. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk;  6  tablespoonfuls  sugar; 
y2  teaspoon  vanilla ;  *4  R>  marshmallows ;  2  tablespoon- 
fuls hot  water. 

Heat  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk  with  6  tablespoon- 
fuls sugar,  and  boil  6  minutes  without  stirring.  In 
a  double  boiler,  heat  Vi  K>  marshmallows  and  when  very 
.soft,  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water.  Cook  until 
smooth.  Beat  into  it  the  hot  syrup  (boiled  milk  and 
sugar)  and  beat  well  until  cool.    L^se  at  once. 

MRS.  EMIL  RILEY. 


-  125  — 


Marshmallow  Filling'. 

2  cups  sugar;  \2  cup  water;  y2  tb  marshniallows ; 
2  eggs. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  ti)l  it  ropes.  Add  the 
marshmallows  broken  in  filial]  bits.  When  these  have 
dissolved,  pour  gradually  into  the  beaten  whites  of 
2  eggs.    Beat  until  cold  and  spread  on  cake. 

MRS.  HERMAN  USENER. 

Simple  Cake  Frosting,  uncooked. 

White  of  1  egg ;  2  cups  powdered  sugar ;  butter, 
size  of  walnut;  vanilla  flavoring. 

Put  unbeaten  white  of  egg  in  bow].  Add  sugar 
gradually  till  paste  is  smooth.  Then  add  butter  (soft 
but  not  melted),  and  vanilla. 

MRS.  G.  L.  STEBBINS. 

Boiled  Frosting. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar;  14  cup  boiling  water;  y2 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  white  of  1  egg. 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  pan  on  stove  and  stir  till 
sugar  dissolves.  Add  cream  of  tartar  and  do  not  stir 
again.  Beat  egg  white  stiff.  Cook  syrup  until  it  spins. 
Beat  into  whipped  egg.  A  pinch  of  salt  and  any  de- 
sired flavoring  may  be  used. 

MRS.  G.  L.  STEBBINS. 

Orange  Icing. 

Boil  2  cupfuls  sugar;  1  cupful  water,  until  it 
strings.  Pour  over  well  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs;  beat 
until  smooth  and  thick;  add  iy2  teaspoonfuls  orange 
extract,  and  spread  rapidly  on  cake. 

M  ISS  OLGA  VON  HAGEN. 


—  126  — 


Chocolate  Cake  Frosting. 

2  cups  powdered  sugar;  1  teaspoon  butter;  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla ;  1 1/3  oz.  chocolate,  some  grated  orange 
peel.  To  the  sugar  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make 
a  smooth  paste,  then  add  the  other'  ingredients  and 
spread  on  cake.| 

MRS.  MAX  SCHOENEWOLF. 

Devils  Food  Layer  Cake. 

4  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  1  cup  white  sugar;  1  cup 
brown  sugar;  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  sweet  milk;  %  cup 
boiling  water  ;  2  cups  chopped  nuts;  y2  cup  citron;  2 
cups  raisins;  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  %  teaspoon 
soda;  1  teaspoon  each  of  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon,  and 
nutmeg.   Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  filling. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMEL  FILLING:  2  cups  sugar; 
y2  cup  grated  chocolate;  y2  cup  sweet  milk;  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Mix  and  cook  to  a  syrup  thick  enough 
to  spread. 

MRS.  MAT  TIE  B.  HARRIS. 
Crumb  Layer  Cake. 

2  cups  flour;  2  eggs;  %  cup  butter;  1  cup  milk;  1% 
cups  sugar;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Crumb  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar  and  butter,  then 
add  milk  and  eggs. 

Makes  three  large  layers. 

MRS.  WALTER  KLAERXER, 


—  127  — 


Angel's  Food  Cake. 

Whites  of  11'  eggs;  iy2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  of  flour; 

1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar;  flavoring. 

To  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  add  the  sugar, 
then  gradually  the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  sifted 
together.  Flour  should  be  sifted  five  times.  Bake  in 
an  ungreased  pan  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 

MRS.  AUG.  JORDAN. 

Angel's  Food  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar,  sifted  3  times;  1*4  cups  flour;  3 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  whites  of 

2  eggs,  beaten  stiffly;  1  cupful  milk;  vanilla  flavoring. 

Heat  milk  and  pour  over  dry  ingredients,  well 
sifted,  add  vanilla  and  carefully  fold  in  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  35  minutes. 

MRS.  H.  W.  KUSENBERGER. 

Arch  Angel  Cake. 

I  cup  butter;  1  cup  sugar;  2  cups  sifted  flour;  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder;  whites  of  8  eggs:  1  teaspoon 
vanilla. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour  sifted  with 
baking  powder,  stir  in  beaten  whites  and  vanilla  and 
bake.  This  can  be  baked  in  layers  with  marshmallow 
filling. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 


—  128  — 


Apple  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar ;  1  of  milk ;  1  egg ;  1  tablespoon 
butter;  2  even  teaspoons  baking-  powder  sifted  in  2  cups 
of  flour.  If  dough  is  too  thin,  add  more  flour.  Peel 
and  slice  enough  apples  to  cover  the  cake.  Put  the 
dough  in  pan  and  put  apples  on  as  for  pie.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Simple,  but  very  delicious. 

MRS.  WM.  DIETEL. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake,  (without  Eggs.) 

y2  cup  lard,  butter  may  be  substituted ;  1  cup  sugar ; 
2  cups  flour;  1  cup  apple  sauce.  Cook  fresh  apples  or 
dried  apples  until  tender  without  sugar  ;  press  through 
fruit  press.  Stir  1  teaspoonful  soda,  (dissolved  in  3 
tablespoons  of  hot  water,)  into  the  apple  sauce;  add 
this  to  the  well  stirred  shortening  and  sugar;  then  add 
1  cup  raisins;  1  cup  pecans;  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  vanilla  flavor.  Add  flour 
last.    Bake  slowly. 

MRS.  EMIL  TOEPPERWEIN. 

Menard,  Texas. 

Almond  Cake. 

15  eggs;  %  lb  sugar;  %  lb  almonds;  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon  and  1  orange. 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  at  least  15  minutes;  add 
almonds  ground  unblanched,  lastly  the  well  beaten 
whites  of  the  15  eggs.  Bake  %  of  an  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

MRS.  EUGENE  VANDER  STUCKEN. 


—  129  — 


Cup  Cake. 

4  eggs;  1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  cups  flour; 
1  cup  sweet  milk;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 
Brides  Cake. 

3  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  butter;  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk;  5  cups  of  flour;  y2  cup  of  cornstarch;  whites  of 
14  eggs;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  1  teaspoon 
each  of  lemon  and  vanilla  extract. 

Stir  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  mix  milk  and 
cornstarch,  then  mix  together  and  put  in  the  whites 
well  beaten  and  flour  sifted  several  times. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 

Coffee  Cake. 

1  cup  coffee ;  1  cup  molasses ;  1  cup  butter ;  1  cup 
sugar ;  1  cup  raisins ;  1  cup  currants ;  4  cups  flour ;  1 
nutmeg;  y2  teaspoon  cinnamon;  y2  teaspoon  cloves;  4 
eggs ;  y2  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

MRS.  A.  L.  PATTON. 
Quick  Coffee  Cake. 
14  cup  butter ;  1  cup  sugar,  creamed  together ;  1 
beaten  egg;  y2  cup  milk;  14  teaspoonful  salt;  iy2  cups 
flour ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Turn  into  a  well  buttered  shallow  pan,  pour  over 
top  2  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

MRS.  LOUIS  DURST. 
Crumb  Cake. 

2  cups  flour;  2  eggs;  %  cup  butter;  %  cup  milk; 
1%  cups  sugar;  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 


—  130  — 


Crunib  dour,  butter,  sugar  and  baking  poAvder. 
Reserve  y2  cup  of  this  mixture  ;  add  the  eggs  and  milk. 
Put  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  remaining  half  cup 
of  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  M.  PUHL. 
Date  and  Nut  Loaf. 
1  lb  of  stoned  dates;  1  tb  of  nuts:  1  cup  of  sugar; 
1  cup  of  flour;  4  eggs,  beaten  separately;  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla:  %  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt. 

Cream  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  sift  baking  powder 
and  salt  into  flour,  stir  into  mixture,  then  fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  lightly,  add  vanilla  and  drop  in  dates 
and  nuts  a  few  at  a  time;  stir  well,  then  drop  all  in 
a  loaf  pan  and  bake  slowly  one  hour. 

MRS.  G.  E.  WRIGHT. 
Cup  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter;  2  cups  of  sugar:  3  cups  of  flour; 
1  cup  of  milk :  1  cup  of  raisins ;  1  cup  of  currants ;  1 
cup  of  pecans:  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  4 
eggs;  i/o  teaspoonful  of  allspice:  rind  of  one  lemon. 

Bake  one  hour. 

MISS  IRMA  OCHS. 
Chocolate  Molasses  Cake. 

6  yolks  of  eggs ;  whites  of  two ;  1  cup  brown  sugar ; 
1  cup  molasses  :  1  cup  pecans  ;  7  squares  of  sweet  choco- 
late: 3  cups  of  flour;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  a  small 
piece  of  citron:  knife  point  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
allspice. 

Mix  well,  bake  in  a  bread  pan,  and  cut  in  squares 
when  baked.  MRS.  EMIL  WEBER. 


—  131  — 
Fruit  Cake. 

1  lb  butter;  1  lb  sugar;  6  eggs;  orange  and 
lemon  peel;  1  glass  wine;  l1  glass  brandy;  *4  lb  cocoa; 
%  lb  cherries  (sugared);  y2  cup  molasses;  y2  cup  sour 
milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  of  allspice,  cinnamon 
and  cloves;  1  teaspoon  ginger;  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder ;  1  lb  raisins ;  1  lb  currants ;  y2  lb  pecans ;  % 
lb  citron;  y2  lb  figs;  V2  lb  dates;  14  lb  almonds  (or 
other  kinds  of  fruit  desired) ;  flour  enough  to  stiffen. 

MRS.  ARNOLD  KOTT. 

Citron  Pound  Cake. 

%  lb  butter;  1  lb  sugar;  8  eggs;  1  lb  flour;  1*4 
lb  citron. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs  and  the  flour.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs, 
then  the  finely  chopped  citron,  lightly  dredged  with 
flour.    Bake  iy2  to  2  hours. 

MRS.  HERMAN  USENER. 

Fruit  Cake.    (Prize  Cake.) 

12  eggs;  1  pound  sugar;  1  pound  butter;  1  pound 
pecans ;  1  pound  currants ;  1  pound  raisins ;  1  pound 
dates  or  figs ;  14  pound  citron ;  14  pound  lemon  and 
orange  peeling:  1  large  apple;  1  grated  nutmeg;  1  wine 
glass  of  brandy ;  1'  teaspoon!' ul  of  cinnamon ;  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  cloves;  y2  teaspoonful  of  mace;  y2  tea- 
spoonful  of  allspice;  1  pound  of  flour;  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder;  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  to  a  paste,  adding 
the  well  beaten  yolks,  then  all  the  fruit,   spices  and 


—  132  — 


brandy,  flour  and  baking   powder,  lastly    adding  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Bake  two  or  three  hours. 

MISS  MET  A  DIETZ. 

Cup  Fruit  Cake. 

%  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  1  eup  milk;  3  eggs; 
3  cups  flour;  1  cup  nuts;  1  eup  raisins;  3  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder. 

ROSA  DECHERT. 

Devil's  Food  Cake. 

PART  1.  1  cup  brown  sugar ;  y2  cup  butter ;  y2 
cup  sweet  milk ;  yolks  of  3  eggs ;  2  cups  flour ;  1  teaspoon 
soda. 

PART  2.  1/0  cup  cocoa;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  y2 
cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

Boil  and  when  cool  mix  with  part  1.  Bake  in  slow 
oven. 

MRS.  WM.  B1ERSCHWALE. 

Potato  Fruit  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of  butter;  4  eggs;  1  cup 
of  warm  mashed  potatoes;  4  ounces  of  bitter  chocolate; 
%  cup  of  water;  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon;  y2  tea- 
spoon of  mace ;  2  cups  of  flour ;  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  y2  cup  of  raisins;  y2  cup  of  nuts;  y2  eup  of 
currants. 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs,  add  cho- 
colate and  spices,  then  add  potatoes  and  flour  and  water 
alternately,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  and  fruit. 
Bake  one  hour. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 


—  133  — 


White  Fruit  Cake. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  3  to  3%  cups  flour, 
sifted  4  times;  2  teaspoons  baking  powder;  1  cup  sweet 
milk ;  whites  of  seven  eggs ;  Flavor  with  lemon  extract, 
and  1/3  cup  of  wine.  (Wine  may  be  omitted)  ;  1  lb 
Sultana  raisins ;  y>  lb  pecan  meats ;  y2  lb  almonds, 
blanched;  %  lb  candied  cherries  and  y2  lb  candied 
pineapple ;  1  fresh  grated  cocoanut.  Cut  fruit  fine  and 
flour  well.    Bake  two  hours  or  more  in  slow  oven. 

MRS.  F.  W.  ARHELGER. 
MRS.  P.  W.  LEMONS. 

Fruit  Cake  (without  Eggs.) 
%  cup  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of  molasses;  1  cup  sour 
milk;  1  cup  seeded  raisins;  4  tablespoonfuls  butter;  1 
teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmegs  and  soda; 
2  cups  of  flour  and  nuts  if  desired. 

MRS.  AD.  SCHMIDT. 

President's  Fruit  Cake.    (Very  Good.) 

T  lb  butter;  1  lb  sugar  (brown)  ;  1  lb  flour  (brown- 
ed and  sifted  3  times)  ;  12  eggs  beaten  separately ;  5 
lb  seeded  raisins ;  iy2  lb  shredded  citron  peel ;  1  lb 
crystallized  cherries ;  1  lb  crystallized  diced  pineapple ; 
1  lb  pecans;  1  lb  blanched  almonds  cut  fine;  1  glass 
grape  jelly;  2  teaspoonfuls  melted  chocolate;  1  scant 
tablespoonful  nutmeg ;  %  tablespoonful  allspice ;  1  scant 
teaspoonful  cloves;  1  glass  grape  juice,  and  2  teaspoon- 
ful rose  water.  Soak  almonds  over  night  in  rose  water 
and  fruit  in  grape  juice,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
well  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  spices,  grape  jelly  and 


s 

—  134  — 

chocolate,  add  whites  of  eggs,  and  part  of  flour,  roll 
fruit  in  rest  of  flour,  add  nuts  last  bake  4  hours. 

MRS.  MAX  WESTKEL. 

Old  English  Fruit  Cake. 

1  egg;  1  cup  molasses;  1  cup  buttermilk:  1  cup 
sugar;  1  cup  butter;  2  cups  flour:  1  teaspoonful  soda; 
1  teaspoonful  cinnamon;  1  teaspoonful  cloves;  1  tea- 
spoonful  ginger:  1  nutmeg:  to  lb  citron;  y2  lb  lemon 
peel;  12  lb  orange  peel;  y2  lb  candied  pineapple:  1'  lb 
raisins;  1  lb  currants;  1  lb  dates;  iy2  Hb  pecans. 

Dredge  spices  and  fruit  with  flour  and  let  stand  over 
night. 

MRS.  Gr.  E.  WRIGHT. 

Premium  Fruit  Cake. 

3  cups  sugar:  V/2  cups  butter;  6  eggs:  iy2  cups 
sour  cream:  2  teaspoonfuls  soda;  y2  lb  currants:  % 
lb  raisins;  *4  lb  citron;  1  nutmeg;  sufficient  flour  to 
form  stiff  batter. 

MRS.  MOURSUND. 

Lightning  Cake. 

1  cup  butter  ;  4  eggs  :  1  cup  sugar  ;  1  heaping  cup 
flour :  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder ;  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  beaten  eggs,  then 
flour :  beat  well.  Spread  1  inch  thick  on  flat  buttered 
pans,  sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  sugar  and  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  hot  oven;  when  done  cut  in  squares. 

MISS  E.  LUNGKWITZ. 

MRS.  ALB.  STAATS. 


—  135  — 


Pecan  Cake. 

y2  cup  butter;  1%  cups  sugar;  %  cups  milk-  2 
cups  flour;  2  level  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  1  cup 
nuts  (chopped  fine) ;  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  3  times;  cream  butter, 
add  sugar,  then  alternately  milk  and  flour,  lastly  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  nut  meats.  Bake  in  a  sheet  in 
a  shallow  pan  30  to  40  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING:  1  cup  sugar;  %  oz.  choco- 
late; 1  white  of  egg  (beaten  dry);  %  cup  water;  y2 
teaspoonful  vanilla  extract. 

Boil  sugar,  water  and  chocolate,  stirring.  Cover 
vessel  and  boil  3  minutes.  Uncover  and  boil  until  it 
forms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water;  then  beat 
slowly  into  the  white  of  egg  and  continue  beating 
(after  extract  is  added)  until  thickened  sufficiently  to 
spread  on  cakes. 

MRS.  HENRY  HIRSCH. 

Pecan  Cake*  (Nuss  Torte.) 

1  lb  pecans,  (ground  or  chopped  very  fine)  ;  1  lb 
sugar,  12  eggs,  (whites  of  7  eggs  to  be  beaten  se- 
parately) ;  4  tablespoons  flour;  spices  to  taste;  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon;  a  pinch  of  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  12  egg  yolks ;  5  whites  and  sugar,  at  least 
15  minutes.  Add  the  grated  lemon  rind,  spices,  pecans, 
and  lastly  add  alternately  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
the  7  eggs,  and  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  powder. 
Bake  at  least  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  do  not 
shake  while  baking. 

MRS.  AUG.  CAMERON. 


—  136  — 


Mandelbrot. 

la/4  cups  chopped  almonds  or  nuts;  2  cups  sugar; 

1  lb  flour;  4  eggs;  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  cloves,  nut- 
meg ;  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  well,  add  eggs,  roll  out.  bake 
y2  hour.    Cut  into  squares  while  still  warm,  then  ice. 

MRS.  FRITZ  KNUST 
Nut  Cake. 

3  eggs;  iy2  cups  sugar;  i/2  cup  butter;  V2  cup 
milk;  2V2  cups  flour:  1  cup  nut  meat;  iy2  teaspoonfuU 
baking  powder. 

MllS.  HENRY  BASSE. 

Potato  Cake.    No.  1. 

2  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter,  stir  to  a  cream;  4 
well-beaten  eggs;  y2  cup  cooked  potatoes;  y2  cup 
grated  chocolate:  V2  cup  milk:  3  cups  Hour;  1  tea- 
spoonful  baking  powder;  1  cup  pecans;  spices  to  taste. 

MISS  BERTHA  PRIESS. 

Potato  Cake.    No.  2. 

1  cup  butter;  2  cups  sugar;  y2  cup  milk;  1  cup 
pecans;  2y2  cups  flour;  1  cup  boiled  potatoes,  grated; 
4  eggs,  whites  beaten  to  a  froth ;  1  nutmeg ;  1  teaspoon- 
ful cinnamon;  }/2  teaspoonful  cloves;  y2  cake  chocolate; 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

Add  grated  potatoes  last. 

MRS.  J.  A.  SCHLEYER. 
MRS.  A.  KUENEMAiNN. 

Reception  Cake. 

1  cup  butter  (small);  iy2  cups  flour;  5  eggs;  iy2 
cups  powdered  sugar;  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder. 


—  137  — 


Beat  butter  until  creamy;  add  flour  gradually 
while  beating  constantly ;  beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  lemon 
colored;  add  sugar  while  beating  constantly.  Combine 
mixtures  and  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Sift 
over  one  teaspoonful  of  baking*  poAvder ;  beat  thoroughly, 
turn  into  buttered  and  flamed  dripping  pan  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  When  done  spread  with  icing  and 
cut  in  diamond  shaped  pieces. 

MRS.  MOURSUND. 

Silver  Cake. 

2  cups  sugar ;  3  cups  flour ;  whites  of  6  eggs ;  2 
tablespoonfuls  baking  powder;  1  cup  butter;  %  CUP 
sweet  milk. 

Cream  well  butter  and  sugar;  pour  in  milk.  Stir 
in  alternately  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  the  flour  which 
has  been  sifted  several  times  with  the  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MISS  JULIA  H.  ESTILL. 
Silver  Cake. 

y2  cup  of  butter;  iy2  cups  of  sugar;  1  cup  of  milk; 
2  cups  of  Hour;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder; 
whites  of  5  eggs  beaten;  14  teaspoon  flavoring. 

Beat  thoroughly,  before  the  whites  of  the  eggs  are 
added.  The  whites  are  folded  in  quickly  and  the  cake 
baked  in  a  moderate  oven  1  hour. 

MRS.  ED.  STEIN. 

White  Cake. 

1  cupful  of  butter;  2  cupfuls  of  sugar;  3%  cup- 
fuls  of  flour;  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  whites 
of  seven  eggs;  1  cupful  of  milk. 


—  138  — 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  flour  sifted 
with  the  baking  powder,  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  one 
hour. 

MRS.  E.  VANDER  STUCKEN. 
White  Cake. 

%  cup  butter ;  1  cup  milk ;  4  egg-whites ;  3  cups 
flour;  1^4  cups  sugar;  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder; 
1  level  teaspoon  salt. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt,  which  should  be  sifted  tho- 
roughly. Add  whites  of  the  eggs  last,  stirring  gently. 
Use  any  flavoring  to  suit  taste. 

MRS.  AUGUSTA  FRANZ. 
Sunshine  Cake.    (Prize  Cake.) 

Whites  of  7  eggs;  yolks  of  5  eggs;  1  cup  sugar; 
1  cup  flour;  pinch  of  salt;  %  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  which  has  been 
added  the  pinch  of  salt.  When  about  half  done,  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Add  sugar, 
the  beaten  yolks,  and  lightly  fold  in  the  flour.  Bake 
in  ungreased  mold  from  20  to  40  minutes.  Invert  into 
cups  and  let  stand  until  cold. 

MRS.  ADOLPH  WEBER. 
Spice  Cake  (Without  Eggs.) 
1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter  or  lard;  1  teaspoon  cin- 
namon; y<z  teaspoon  allspice;  1  teaspoon  nutmeg;  2 
tablespoons  chocolate  or  cocoa;  %  CUP  pecans;  1  cup 
raisins;  1  cup  sour  milk;  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  2 
tablsspoons  sour  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract;  2% 
cups  flour. 

MRS.  ALFRED  GROBE. 


139  — 


Spice  Cake. 

1  cup  of  molasses ;  %  cup  butter ;  1  cup  of  sugar ; 
2  eggs;  2  teaspooufuls  of  vinegar;  2  teaspoonfuls  of 
soda;  14  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  cin- 
namon ;  i/o  CUP  °i  strong  coffee ;  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough. 

Mix  all  except  molasses.  Heat  molasses  and  mix 
in  spices,  when  cool  mix  all  together  and  bake  in 
quick  oven. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 
Spice  Cake.    (Layer  of  Loaf  Cake.) 
1%  cups  sugar;  1  cup  butter;  1  teaspoonful  of  all- 
spice ;  1  cup  raisins ;  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon ;  1  cup 
sour  milk;  1  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg;  3  cupfuls  of  flour; 
2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  3  eggs. 

This  cake  may  also  be  made  in  three  layers. 

MRS.  MAX  SCHOENEWOLF. 
Loaf  Sponge  Cake. 
6  eggs;  1  cup  boiling  water;  14  cup  cornstarch;  y2 
teaspoon  lemon  extract;  2  cups  sugar;  2%  cups  flour; 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  beating  the 
sugar  in  gradually.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  the  boiling  water.  Beat  in  very  lightly  the  flour, 
cornstarch,  and  baking  powder  well  sifted  together. 
Flavor.    Bake  in  a  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MRS.  FELIX  W.  MAIER, 
Snow  Cake. 

1  cup  butter ;  2  cups  sugar ;  1  cup  cornstarch ;  2  cups 
flour;  whites  of  7  eggs;  1  cup  cream;  2  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder. 


—  140  — 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  cornstarch  and 
the  cream,  then  the  flour  sifted  two  or  three  times  with 
the  powder.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff  and  fold  into 
the  batter,  beating  as  little  as  possible  after  adding  eggs. 
Flavor  with  lemon  extract.         MRS.  A.  D.  STAHL. 

Gold  Cake. 

Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  and  %  cups  butter,  add 
1  whole  egg  and  the  yolks  of  5  well  beaten  eggs,  then 
y2  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  2  cups  of  flour  into 
which  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder  has  been 
sifted. 

Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ELLA  NAUWALD  SCHAEFER. 
Chocolate  Cake. 
iy2  cups   sugar    y2  cup  butter;    2  eggs;    y2  CUP 
cocoa ;  y2  cup  hot  water ;  2  cups  flour ;  y2  cup  sour 
milk;  1  teaspoon  soda;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

MRS.EMIL  KOLMEIER. 
Lunch  Cake. 

1  cup  sugar;  y2  cup  butter;  1  cup  sour  milk;  2 
cups  flour;  1  egg;  1  teaspoon  soda;  2  tablespoons 
molasses ;  1  teaspoon  cinnamon ;  y2  teaspoon  nutmeg ; 
y2  teaspoon  cloves  and  fruit. 

MRS.  WM.  KALLENBERG. 
Poor  Man's  Cake.     (Without  Eggs.  ) 

2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups  sour  milk, 
1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  cup  raisins,  a  little  nutmeg,  1 
cup  nuts,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  soda,  3  cups 
flour. 

Bake  in  shallow  bread  pan. 

MRS.  LEWIS  K.  SMITH. 


—  141  — 


Marble  Cake.  —  Light. 

1  cup  of  white  sugar,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of 
milk,  whites  of  3  eggs,  2  cups  of  prepared  flour. 

Dark. 

Y2  cup  of  brown  sugar,  14  CUP  butter,  y2  cup  mo- 
lasses, 14  cup  milk,  y2  nutmeg,  1  teaspooiiful  cinnamon, 
Y2  teaspoonful  allspice,  y2  teaspooiiful  soda,  2  cups 
flour,  yolks  of  3  eggs. 

Fill  the  pan  with  alternate  spoonfuls  of  light  and  dark 
batter.  MRS.  E.  C.  HANSEN. 

Three  Egg  Angel  Food. 

1  cup  sugar,  11/3  cup  flour,  y2  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  2/3  cup  scalded  milk,  whites  of  three 
eggs. 

Mix  and  sift  first  five  ingredients  four  times.  Add 
milk  very  slowly  while  hot,  mix  well,  add  vanilla  flavor- 
ing, put  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  till  light.  Bake  45 
minutes  in  slow  oven. 

White  Icing. 

iy2  cup  powdered  sugar;  2  tablespoons  hot  milk; 
y2  teaspoon  butter ;  y2  teaspoon  vanilla  extract. 

Add  butter  to  hot  milk,  add  sugar  slowly  to  make 
right  consistency  to  spread,  then  add  vanilla.  Spread 
on  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Sunshine  Cake. 

3  tablespoons  shortening,  %  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  flavoring  extract,  y2  cup  milk,  iy2  cups 
flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  —  Cover  with  white 
icing,  same  as  used  for  above  Angels  Food. 

MRS.  DINA  PRIESS. 


—  142  — 

Extra  Hints  for  Baking 


1st  quarter  hour:  Cake  should  rise  but  not  brown. 

2nd  quarter  hour :  Continue  to  rise  and  specks  of 
brown  appear. 

3rd  quarter  hour :  Cake  should  brown  evenly  all 
over. 

4th  quarter  hour:  Cake  should  shrink  from  sides 
of  pan. 

Layer  cakes  bake  in  from  20  to  25  minutes. 

Loaf  cakes  bake  in  from  40  to  60  minutes. 

If  cake  sticks,  lay  a  wet  cloth  over  bottom  of  pan. 

MISS  META  DIETZ. 


Weights  and  Measures. 

1  cup,  medium  size,  14  pint  or  *4  lb.. 

4  cups,  medium  size,  of  flour  weigh  1  lb. 

1  pt.  flour  weighs  %  lb. 

1  pt.  Avhite  sugar  weighs  1  lb. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh  1  oz. 
8  teaspoonfuls  of  liquid  weigh  1  oz. 

1  gill  of  liquid  weighs  4  oz. 
1  pt.  of  liquid  weighs  16  oz. 


—  143  — 


Sandwiches. 


Chicken  Sandwiches. 


To  a  cupful  of  cold  boiled  chopped  chicken,  add  a 
half  cupful  of  almonds  or  pecans,  one-fourth  cupful  of 
stuffed  olives,  also  chopped  fine,  and  enough  mayon- 
naise dressing-,  to  make  of  the  right  consistency. 
Spread  thin  slices  of  bread  with  butter,  and  place 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  these.  Place  the  chicken  filling 
between,  and  form  into  sandwiches. 


Mince  hard  boiled  eggs,  mix  with  chopped  olives, 
or  cress  and  parsley,  moisten  with  butter  or  mayon- 
naise. Salt,  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  Spread  between 
sliced  bread. 


1  cup  grated  cream  cheese;  4  tablespoonfuls  milk; 
1  small  can  pimentoes;  2  tablespoonfuls  butter;  1 
teaspoonful  salt;  1  teaspoonful  cornstarch;  paprika 
to  taste. 

Put  cheese  in  double  boiler,  add  salt,  butter, 
paprika  and  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  milk.  Cook  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  chopped 
pimento. 


MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 


Egg  Sandwiches. 


MISS  ALMA  SCHUCH. 


Pimento  and  Cheese  Sandwiches. 


LETTIE  RICHTER. 


—  144  — 


Ham  Sandwiches. 

1  cup  boiled  ham;  y2  cup  of  chopped  celery;  1 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  pickles;  salad  dressing. 

Mince  well  some  boiled  ham.  To  every  cupful  of 
ham  use  a  heaping-  tablespoonful  of  chopped  pickles, 
and  y2  cupful  of  chopped  celery.  Mix  to  a  paste  with 
salad  dressing,  and  spread  between  slices  of  bread. 

DRESSING:  Beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs;  y2  cup  of 
sugar;  1  tablespoonful  of  salt;  1  teaspoonful  of 
mustard;  y2  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour;   %  pint  of  vinegar  and  a  spoonful  of  butter. 

Stir  vinegar  into  the  egg  mixture  slowly,  to  prevent 
curdling.  Set  in  a  cool  place  and  when  ready  to  use, 
thin  with  thick  cream. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Sardine  Sandwiches. 

1  can  of  sardines;  hard  boiled  eggs;  salt  and 
pepper;  lemon  juice;  melted  butter. 

Mash  the  sardines  to  a  paste  using  all  the  oil  in 
the  can.  Combine  with  an  equal  quantity  of  the  mashed 
yolks  of  the  eggs;  add  the  chopped  whites.  Season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice  and  moisten  with 
melted  butter. 

MRS.  AUG.  ITZ. 

Salad  Sandwiches. 

Equal  parts  of  cold  boiled  tongue  and  breast  of 
chicken,  chopped  very  fine  and  pounded  to  a  paste; 
season  with  salt,  celery  salt,  cayenne,  or  paprika,  and 
moisten  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing. 

MRS.  MAX  BIERSCHWALE. 


—  145  — 


Delicious  Sandwiches. 

1  cup  of  ground  ham;  a  few  olives;  1  tablespoon 
of  pickles;  1  tablespoon  of  pimentos;  3  tablespoons  of 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

j  Spread  the  mixture  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf  between 
lightly  buttered  slices  of  white  bread. 

MRS.  R.  L.  KOTT. 

Tongue  Sandwiches. 

1  cupful  of  cold  boiled  tongue  (mince  fine)  ;  % 
cup  celery:  1  huge  ripe  tomato;  1  green  sweet  pepper; 
2  or  3  small  pickles,  if  desired. 

Cut  celery,  tomatoes,  pepper  and  pickles  in  small 
pieces  and  mix  with  tongue.  Mix  all  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

ELSA  WALTER, 

Pecan  Nut  Sandwiches. 

Rub  to  a  smooth  paste  one  teaspoon  of  butter,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  cheese,  a  saltspoonful  each  of 
salt,  paprika,  dry  mustard  and  celery  salt,  a  little  an- 
chovy paste  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  When 
very  smooth  add  one  cupful  of  pecan  nuts  that  have 
been  passed  through  the  meat  chopper. 

VERDIE  KETTNER. 

Tomato  Sandwiches. 

Peel  some  ripe  tomatoes,  remove  the  seeds,  press 
out  the  water,  season  the  pulp  with  pepper,  salt,  oil, 
vinegar  and  lastly  a  little  freshly  grated  cheese. 

VERDIE  KETTNER. 


—  146  — 


Hard  Caramels. 

One  cup  white  sugar;  one  cup  molasses;  two 
squares  chocolate;  butter,  size  of  a  walnut. 

Boil  until  brittle,  when  tested;  then  add  one  cup 
chopped  nuts  and  pour  on  buttered  pans. 

MRS.  LOUIS  STIELEE. 
Chocolate  Caramels. 
2  cups  molasses;  1  cup  brown  sugar;  1  cup  cream 
or  milk;  y%  lb  chocolate;  butter,  size  of  an  egg. 

Beat  all  together  and  boil  until  it  thickens,  when 
tested  in  cold  water.  Turn  into  large  flat  tins,  well 
buttered.    When  nearly  cold,  cut  into  small  squares. 

MRS.  ED.  OEHLER, 
Stuffed  Dates. 
1  tb  dates  (stoned,   stuffed   with   pecans) ;  fresh 
eoeoanut  (grated) ;  make  stiff  white  icing,  roll  dates  in 
icing  and  then  in  cocoanut. 

Stuffed  Figs. 
Stuff  figs  with  nuts,  soak  over  night  in  brandy,  roll 
in  powdered  sugar. 

MRS.  RANDALL, 
Sherman,  Texas. 

Date  Roll. 

1  lb  dates;  y2  cup  milk;  2  cups  sugar;  2  cups  nuts. 
Stone  and  chop  dates,  boil  sugar  and  milk  about 
3  minutes,  add  dates  and  stir  until  dissolved,  take  off 


—  147  — 


fire  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  nuts,  beat 
again,  roll  into  a  wet  cloth,  and  when  cool,  slice. 

MISS  BEULAH  TALLEY. 
Sweet  Divinity. 

In  a  saucepan  put  2/3  cup  water,  3  cups  granulated 
sugar,  and  one  cup  Karo  Corn  Syrup.  Let  cook  until 
the  mixture  will  make  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold 
water. 

Twelve  minutes  after  first  saucepan  lias  been 
started,  into  a  second  one  put  y2  cup  water  and  1  cup 
granulated  sugar,  and  set  to  cook.  When  this  mixture 
threads,  when  dropped  from  a  spoon,  it  is  done.  This 
will  be  very  nearly  the  same  time  as  the  first  is  in 
proper  condition.  When  the  first  is  ready,  the  mixture 
should  be  poured  slowly  over  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
whisked  to  a  stiff  froth,  beating  briskly  the  whites. 
When  it  has  reached  a  satisfactory  stage,  turn  in  slow- 
ly the  contents  of  the  second  saucepan,  still  beating 
constantly,  and  stir  in  a  cup  of  nutmeats.  Turn  the  mass 
out  in  a  buttered  tin  and  score  in  squares  when  suffi- 
ciently cool. 

MISS  E.  LOUDON. 

MRS.  ALFRED  SCHMIDT. 

Divinity  Candy* 

2  2/3  cups  sugar ;  2/3  cup  corn  syrup ;  2/3  cup  water ; 
whites  of  2  eggs. 

Cook  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  if  forms  hard 
balls,  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Have  the  whites 
of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to 
hold  all  the  candy.  Pour  candy  over  eggs  slowly,  beat- 
ing hard  all  the  time,  and  continue  beating  till  almost 


—  148  — 


hard.  Then  turn  into  a  buttered  dish  to  chalk.  Cut 
into  squares  when  cold.  You  may  add  any  kind  of 
nuts  or  raisins,  before  turning  candy  into  buttered  dish. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 

Fig  Fudge. 

Two  pounds  light  brown  sugar;  cover  with  rich 
sweet  milk,  one  large  tablespoonful  butter.  Cook  until 
it  will  gum  in  cold  water.  Add  a  package  of  figs, 
chopped;  flavor  with  vanilla;  beat  until  stiff  and  pour 
on  buttered  plates. 

MRS.  LOUIS  STIELER. 

Genesee  Squares. 

2  cups  sugar:  1  cup  molasses;  y2  CUP  butter;  1  cup 
milk;  2  cakes  good  sweet  chocolate;  2  teaspoonfuls 
vanilla. 

Grate  chocolate  and  let  the  mixture  come  slowly 
to  a  boil.  Let  it  boil  until  it  will  form  a  ball  in  cold 
water.  Remove  from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  stir  until 
it  is  thick  and  shows  signs  of  sugaring.  Spread  in  tins 
and  cut  into  cubes. 

MISS  ELSBETH  HANISCH. 

Molasses  Fudge. 

3  cups  of  granulated  sugar ;  1  cup  of  milk  or 
cream:  1  tablespoonful  of  butter:  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses;  y2  teaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little 
milk. 

Boil  10  minutes.  Beat  until  creamy:  add  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  and  1  cup  of  nut  meats  while  beat- 
ing.   When  cold  cut  into  squares. 

MRS.  A.  H.  WELGEHAUSEN. 


—  149  — 


Candy  Patience. 

2  cups  sugar;  %  cup  sweet  milk;  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Put  iy2  cups  sugar  in  sauce  pan  and  melt.  Cook 
the  remainder  with  the  milk  until  it  hardens  when  put 
in  water.  Add  the  melted  sugar  and  stir  five  minutes. 
Put  in  buttered  dish  and  cut  in  squares. 

MISS  MAYME  GREATHOUSE. 
Marshmallows. 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar;  y2  cup  of  water;  till  it  forms 
a  syrup.  Dissolve  one  envelope  of  Knox  Gelatine  in  y2 
cup  of  water  and  let  it  stand  5  minutes.  Pour  boiling 
syrup  over  dissolved  gelatine  and  beat  till  stiff. 

Then,  pour  half  of  portion  into  a  buttered  pan, 
to  the  other  half  add  pink  coloring  wrhich  conies  in 
gelatine.  Use  any  flavor  desired,  making  each  half 
different.  Let  it  stand  until  it  is  hard  enough  to  be 
cut  into  blocks. 

RUBY  STEIN. 

Nut  Candy. 

2  cups  sugar;  y2  cup  water;  1  cup  nutmeats. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  thick 
enough  to  spin  a  thread;  flavor  to  suit  taste;  set  in  cold 
water;  stir  quickly  until  white,  then  stir  in  the  nuts; 
turn  into  flat  tins ;  when  cold  cut  into  squares. 

MISS  E.  LOUDON. 
Wellesley  Pinoche. 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar;  1  cup  milk;  butter,  size 
of  an  egg;  1  cup  chopped  nuts. 

Boil  sugar,  butter  and  milk  together  until  mixture 
thickens  when  tested  in  cold  water;  add  nuts,  beat  until 
a  thick  and  creamy  mass;  pour  out  into  well-buttered 


—  150  — 


pan,  before  it  has  quite  cooled.  Cut  into  squares  with 
a  knife  that  has  been  dipped  in  boiling  water. 

ESTELLE  F.  SMITH. 

Taffy. 

3  cups  sugar;  y2  L'llP  water;  y2  cup  of  vinegar: 
butter,  size  of  an  egg;  vanilla. 

Mix  all  together,  cook  until  it  hardens  when  drop- 
ped in  cold  water.  Don't  stir,  turn  on  greased  platter 
and  pull  until  white. 

MRS.  LOUIS  ST1ELER. 
French.  Nougat. 

2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiffly;  2^9  eups  sugar; 
xh  cllP  warm  water;  i/2  CUP  corn  syrup:  1%  cups  nuts, 
candied  cherries,  raisins  and  citron,  mixed. 

Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  it  threads,  pour 
half  the  quantity  slowly  into  the  well  beaten  whites  of 
eggs,  whipping  incessantly.  Allow  the  remainder  to 
boil  until  it  forms  a  hard  glassy  ball  when  dropped  into 
water,  and  add  the  other  which  in  the  meantime  has 
been  steadily  beaten.  When  almost  hard,  add  fruit. 
Drop  on  oiled  paper  and  wrap  when  cooled. 

MRS.  WILLIE  PBTBRMANN. 
After  Dinner  Mints. 

2  cups  granulated  sugar-.  %  cups  of  water  (cold  or 
warm)  ;  1/8  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Stir  the  mixture  well  before  placing  on  stove;  do 
not  stir  when  boiling.  Boil  until  when  dropped  in  cold 
water  it  will  roll  in  a  soft  ball  between  the  fingers. 
When  done,  pour  into  buttered  dish  and  allow  it  to 
become  almost  cool.  Add  a  small  drop  of  oil  of  pepper- 
mint and  beat  until  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Work 


—  151  — 


with  the  hands  until  plastic ;  mould  with  fingers  into 
the  shape  desired  and  place  moulded  fondant  on  oiled 
paper. 

The  fondant  may  be  flavored  with  vanilla,  lemon, 
or  strawberry  and  mixed  with  chopped  raisins,  dates, 
cocoanut,  pecans,  or  walnuts,  then  moulded  into  fancy 
shapes. 

JULIA  ESTILL. 

Fruit  Fudge. 

3  cups  of  sugar,  14  CUP  °^  cocoanut, 
1  cup  of  nuts,  *4  cup  of  figs,  14  cup  of  dates, 
•/4  CUP  °&  raisins,  %  cup  of  milk,  3  teaspoonfuls  cocoa, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Boil  sugar,  butter  and  milk  till  it  forms  a  soft  ball 
when  tested  in  cold  water,  then  add  the  fruit,  mix  well 
and  turn  in  buttered  dish.  When  nearly  cold  cut  into 
squares. 

MRS.  HUGO  KLIER. 
Nut  Candy. 

2%  cups  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Melt  butter,  add  sugar  and 
vinegar.  Boil  until  brown,  stirring  continually.  Lastly 
add,  one  cup  of  nut  meats,  pour  on  buttered  dish  and 
<mt  into  squares. 

MRS.  HUGO  KLIER. 


—  152  — 


Jellies  and  Preserves. 


Fruit  Jellies. 


With  but  a  few  exceptions,  the  rule  for  all  fruit 
jellies  is  substantially  the  same.  The  directions  given, 
if  followed  closely,  cannot  fail  to  produce  a  clear,  spark- 
ling jelly.  If  it  should,  after  strict  adherence  to  the 
recipe,  prove  watery,  the  fault  is  in  the  fruit,  not  in  the 
method  or  the  maker. 

Thin  liquid  jellies  can  often  be  brought  to  greater 
firmness  if  the  filled  glasses  are  allowed  to  stand  in  the 
hot  sun.  Sometimes  three  or  four  hours  will  suffice,  at 
other  times  as  many  days  may  be  required. 

Not  until  the  jelly  is  at  least  comparatively  firm 
should  it  be  covered  with  waxed  paper  and  sealed. 


1  lb  melon ;  1  lb  sugar ;  rind  of  1  lemon. 

Peel  the  melon  and  scrape  out  the  red  flesh,  using 
only  the  hard  part,  cut  into  pieces  and  cover  with  vine- 
gar for  24  hours.  Then  drain  and  cover  melon  with 
the  sugar  for  the  same  length  of  time.  Take  out  and 
let  sugar  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  the  melon  and 
lemon  rind.  Boil  until  partly  soft,  take  out  melon 
and  boil  juice  until  thick  enough.  Let  cool  and  fill 
into  jars. 


MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 


Melon  rreserve. 


MES.  FRED  WALTER. 


—  153  — 


Crab  Apple  Jelly. 

Quarter,  without  peeling  or  coring,  ripe  crab  apples. 
Put  into  preserving  kettle,  add  water,  not  quite  enough 
to  cover  the  fruit,  boil  slowly  until  fruit  is  quite  tender. 

Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Measure  juice.  To 
each  pint  of  this,  allow  a  pound  of  sugar.  Place  the 
juice  on  the  stove,  bring  rapidly  to  a  boil.  Boil  20 
minutes,  skim  it,  add  the  sugar,  stir  until  it  has  dis- 
solved. Boil  about  10  minutes  longer.  Test  by  cooling 
a  little  in  a  saucer. 

Blackberries,  Mustang  Grapes,  Plums,  etc.,  can  all 
be  made  by  following  the  above  recipe. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 
Peach  Jelly. 

Select  peaches  that  are  not  too  sweet.  Wash  them 
and  rub  off  the  fuzz.  Cut  in  halves;  remove  the  stones. 
Crack  a  dozen  kernels,  and  add  them  to  the  peaches. 
Boil  until  tender.  When  the  liquid  is  strained  and 
measured,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice  to  each, 
pint  of  the  jelly,  and  then  proceed  as  in  other  jellies. 

MRS.  WM.  CRENWELGE. 
Fig  Preserves. 

4  lb  of  peeled  figs ;  3  lb  of  sugar ;  one  lemon. 

Peel  figs  in  the  evening  and  cover  with  sugar.  Next 
morning  add  the  lemon  juice,  or  sliced  lemon,  and  cook 
about  2y2  hours,  or  until  the  fruit  looks  transparent, 
and  the  syrup  is  like  honey. 

MRS.  R.  G.  STRIEGLER. 
Orange  Marmalade. 

The  rind  and  juice  of  three  oranges,  shredded 
finely ;  %  quart  of  water. 


—  154  — 


Soak  for  24  hours.  Add  1*4  Qts.  of  sugar  to  every 
quart  of  the  mixture  and  boil  until  it  has  the  color  and 
consistency  of  honey.  MISS  BERTHA  OCHS. 

Peach  Marmalade. 

To  each  pound  of  peeled  and  stoned  peaches,  cut 
in  halves,  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar. 
Put  sugar  in  your  preserving-  kettle,  add  water  to  dis- 
solve, let  come  to  a  boil.  Add  your  peaches  which 
should  be  good  and  firm  so  as  not  to  cook  to  pieces. 
Boil  carefully  for  about  half  an  hour,  lift  out  of  the 
juice  and  arrange  on  platters  and  set  in  the  hot  sun  to 
partly  dry  and  toughen. 

Turn  them  occasionally.  The  next  day  heat  the 
syrup  to  boiling,  drop  in  the  peaches,  also  about  a 
dozen  kernels  of  the  peach-stones,  chopped  fine,  and  the 
juice  of  a  lemon.  Cook  until  the  peaches  are  clear  and 
the  marmalade  is  jelly-like.  Test  it  by  cooling  a  little 
in  a  saucer. 

Pear  Marmalade  may  be  made  by  the  same  recipe. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 
Pie  Melon  Preserves. 

Slice  a  pie  melon  in  lengthwise  strips,  each  about 
two  inches  long.  Cover  with  equal  parts  of  vinegar 
and  water.  Let  them  remain  until  the  next  day.  Drain 
them.  Then  cook  with  equal  parts  of  melon  and  sugar, 
and  one  lemon  rind.  MRS.  AUG.  ITZ. 

Pie  Melon  Preserves. 

Cover  8  lb  of  finely  cut  melon  pulp  with  4  lb  of 
sugar.  Leave  standing  over  night,  then  add  4  sliced 
lemons,  and  cook  several  hours. 

MRS.  HERMAN  HOHENBERGER. 


—  155  — 


CATSUP,  PICKLES,  CANNED 
VEGETABLES,  ETC. 


Hints  on  Canning. 

What  is  canning?  Canning  is  the  art  of  preserving 
food  by  means  of  sterilization  by  heat,  and  keeping  it 
sterile  in  an  air-tight,  sealed  container. 

The  most  troublesome  foes  to  combat  in  canning, 
are  the  bacteria. 

Never  use  commercial  preservatives  or  canning 
powders,  as  they  are  dangerous.    Use  heat. 

Do  your  canning  by  the  "Cold  Pack  Method",  be- 
cause in  this  way  the  bacteria  have  no  chance. 

Save  all  of  your  fruits  and  vegetables  you  raise, 
and  store  them  in  the  cellar,  as  canned  goods.  This 
does  the  cooking  for  the  whole  year  in  a  few  days,  and 
that's  one  time  you  can  get  the  old  man  to  help  you 
cook  if  you  get  him  to  help  you  can. 

Last  but  not  least,  "Can  while  you  can,  so  you  can 
have  a  can,  when  there  is  nothing  to  can. 

ALFRED  NEFFENDORF. 
Chili  Sauce. 

6  doz.  tomatoes;  12  cups  vinegar;  2  dozen  onions; 
24  tablespoons  sugar;  12  teaspoons  ginger;  12  teaspoons 
cloves;  12  teaspoons  cinnamon;  12  teaspoons  salt. 

Red  pepper  to  suit  taste. 

Boil  4  or  5  hours,  or  down  to  about  half  of  original 
quantity. 

MRS.  AD.  WEHMEYER. 


—  156  — 
Chili  Sauce. 

12  large  ripe  tomatoes;  2  cupfuls  sugar;  1  large 
onion;  1  tablespoonful  salt;  4  red  peppers;  1  tablespoon- 
ful  vinegar;  1  tablespoonful  each  of  ground  allspice  and 
cloves. 

Chop  fine  the  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers.  Add 
the  other  ingredients  and  boil  until  quite  thick. 

MRS.  HUGO  BASSE. 

Pepper  Hash. 

Remove  the  seeds  and  chop  very  fine  .12  sweet  red 
peppers,  and  12  green  peppers  and  12  very  small  onions. 
Add  3  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  allow  the  mixture  to 
simmer  for  10  minutes.  Then  drain,  and  add  1  quart  of 
diluted  vinegar  and  1  cupful  of  sugar.  Add  a  little 
mustard  and  celery  seed,  if  liked.  Let  the  hash  come 
to  a  boil,  then  pour  it  into  jars  and  seal  while  hot. 

MRS.  HERMANN  HOHENBERGER. 
MRS.  DINA  PRIESS. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  one  gallon  of  diluted  vinegar,  and  one  cup 
each  of  dry  mustard  and  salt,  or  if  sweet  pickles  are 
wanted  add  one  or  two  cups  of  sugar.  Pick  your  cu- 
cumbers in  the  morning,  wash  them  thoroughly  and 
drain,  then  drop  them  into  the  vinegar. 

MRS.  A.  H.  KNEESE. 

Ripe  Cucumbers. 

Peel  cucumbers,  and  cut  into  eight  parts,  hollow  out 
seeds  and  pulps  with  a  silver  spoon.  To  a  bucket  of 
cucumbers  use  1  cup  salt.  Salt  pieces  well  and  allow 
them  to  stand  24  hours.    Wipe  dry  with  clean  cloth. 


-  157  — 


Cook  vinegar  thinned  with  water  to  taste;  to  1  quart 
vinegar  use  1  tabiespoonful  of  sugar,  2  bay  leaves  and 
a  handful  of  mustard  seed. 

Pack  in  fruit  jars,  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  all  and 
seal  tight. 

ROSA  DECHERT. 

Salt  Cucumber  Pickles* 

Wash  cucumbers  with  a  brush,  put  into  cold  water 
over  night.  Drain  them  the  next  morning  and  pack 
closely  into  jar,  one  layer  cucumbers,  then  a  layer  grape 
leaves  and  grapes,  and  so  on  till  jar  is  filled. 

To  two  quarts  of  water  add  one  cup  of  salt,  fill  the 
jar  with  the  salt  and  water,  cover  up,  with  a  light 
weight  on  top  to  keep  pickles  under'  water. 

MRS.  JACOB  GOLD,  SR. 

Chow  Chow. 

Beans,  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions. 

To  every  gallon  of  cut  vegetables  add:  1  table- 
spoonful  of  salt;  1  tabiespoonful  of  pepper;  iy2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mustard;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses;  y% 
teaspoonful  of  cloves;  1  quart  of  vinegar. 

Boil  half  an  hour. 

MRS.  JUL.  KLINGELHOEFER. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Take  green  cucumbers,  about  4  or  5  inches  long, 
soak  48  hours  in  strong  brine,  then  pour  off  the  brine 
and  rinse  with  cold  water. 

Boil  together  1  quart  of  vinegar  and  y2  quart  of 
water.  Fill  jars  with  the  cucumbers,  add  to  a  two  quart 
jar  4   small    red   peppers,    y2   teaspoon   whole  black 


—  158  — 


peppers,  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  small  teaspoon, 
to  restore  the  green  color  of  cucumbers,  pour  the  boiling 
vinegar  over  and  seal  tight. 

ANNA  GOLD. 

Dill  Pickles. 

Wash  medium  sized  cucumbers,  cover  with  cold 
water  and  allow  to  remain  over  night.  Drain  them 
the  next  day,  wipe  dry,  and  pack  closely  together  in 
stone  jars  using  plenty  of  fresh  dill  between  the  layers 
of  cucumbers.  To  each  half-gallon  jar  add  2  small 
red  peppers,  1  teaspoonful  of  black  peppers,  and  2  bay 
leaves.  To  6  quarts  of  water  add  1  lb  of  rock  salt  and 
a  small  teaspoonful  of  alum.  Heat  the  mixture  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  1  quart  of  pure  cider  vinegar  and 
pour  at  once  over  the  pickles  covering  them  well.  Seal 
tightly,  Avhile  hot.  If  fresh  dill  cannot  be  obtained,  use 
dill  seed  in  the  proportion  of  a  tablespoonful  to  each 
half-gallon  jar.  Fresh  dill  gives  a  better  flavor  to 
the  pickles. 

MRS.  OTTO  KOLMEIER. 
Chow  Chow, 

Chop  fine  tomatoes,  sweet  peppers,  and  onions. 
Salt  over  night,  (each  separately).  Next  morning  wash 
the  vegetables  and  drain  through  a  cheese  cloth. 
When  drained  put  into  jars.  Boil  vinegar  and  red 
peppers,  pour  over  and  seal  tightly. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 
Sweet  Pickle  Cucumbers. 

Cucumbers;  3  quarts  of  vinegar;  1  cup  of  water; 
2  cups  of  sugar;  black  pepper,  green  grapes  and  a 
branch  of  dill. 


—  159  — 


Wash  well  one  bucket  of  medium  sized  cucumbers, 
place  in  brine  that  will  float  an  egg  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  wash  cucumbers  in  fresh 
water  and  wipe  dry.  Let  the  sugar,  vinegar  and 
water  come  to  a  boil,  add  cucumbers  and  boil  for  ten 
minutes.  Press  the  cucumbers  in  a  glass  jar,  with 
a  little  whole  black  pepper,  a  small  bunch  of  green 
grapes  and  a  little  branch  of  dill.  Fill  with  the 
boiling  vinegar  and  seal. 

MRS.  P.  STEIN. 

Dill  Pickles. 

1  gal.  small  cucumbers;  2  qts.  water;  2/3  qts. 
vinegar;  1/3  qt.  salt;  4  tablespoonfuls  dill  seed;  2 
tabiespoonfuls  allspice  and  hot  pepper;  grape  leaves  and 
a  small  piece  of  alum. 

Lay  the  cucumbers  in  cold  water  over  night.  In 
the  morning  put  them  in  jars  in  layers  with  grape 
leaves  and  spices.  Let  salt,  vinegar  and  water  come  to 
a  boil  and  pour  hot  over  cucumbers. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 

Piccalilli. 

8  quarts  green  tomatoes,  chopped  fine;  1  quart 
onions,  chopped  fine;  1  quart  green  peppers,  chopped 
fine.   Mix  with  %  cup  of  salt  and  let  stand  over  night. 

Then  squeeze  very  dry,  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with 
good  vinegar  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  2  dozen  cloves, 
1  dozen  allspice,  2  oz.  mustard,  y±  teaspoons  cayenne 
and  2  cups  sugar,  and  cook  about  one  hour. 

Put  up  and  seal  air-tight. 

MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 


—  160  — 


Stuffed  Peppers  (Sweet). 

Core  the  peppers,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  over 
with  boiling  water,  and  stand,  over  night.  Then  cut  up 
cabbage,  boil  in  salt  water  not  too  soft,  squeeze  the 
juice  from  the  cabbage  and  put  cabbage  In  peppers; 
make  a  sauce  of  1  cup  of  vinegar,  2  cups  of  water,  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  few  pickle  spices,  let  come 
to  a  boil,  put  in  peppers  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  put 
in  jar  and  seal  up  tightly. 

MRS.  H.  CORDES. 
Stuffed  Pickled  Peppers. 

2  doz.  green  peppers;  1  small  head  of  white  cab- 
bage; 4  large  white  onions;  3  tablespoonfuls  mustard 
seed;  y2  teaspoonful  powdered  cloves;  y2  teaspoonful 
powdered  allspice;  2  teaspoonfuls  salt. 

Remove  the  stem  ends  of  the  peppers,  take  out  all 
the  seeds  and  place  in  strong  salt  water  for  48  hours. 
After  48  hours  remove  from  salt  water  and  dry  well. 

Chop  the  vegetables  fine  and  mix  well;  fill  peppers 
and  replace  the  stem  ends  and  tie  with  white  thread; 
put  in  a  stone  jar  and  fill  with  boiled  vinegar.  After 
twenty-four  hours  boil  the  vinegar  again  and  pour 
over  peppers  and  repeat  in  another  twenty-four  hours. 
Cover  the  jar  and  put  in  a  dark  place. 

MRS.  ALVIN  STRTEGLER. 

Mixed  Pickles. 

1  qt.  small  cucumbers;  1  qt.  onions;  1  qt.  sliced 
green  tomatoes;  1  qt.  cauliflower,  cut  into  small 
pieces;  2  qts.  vinegar;  3  cups  sugar;  8  tablespoonfuls 
mustard ;  y2  cup  flour ;  1  teaspoonful  turmeric ;  1  tea- 
spoonful cayenne  pepper. 


—  161  — 


Sprinkle  the  vegetables  with  salt  and  let  stand 
over  night.  Put  the  vinegar  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and 
when  boiling,  add  the  well  mixed  dry  ingredients,  and 
then  the  vegetables,  which  previously  must  have  been 
boiled  about  ten  minutes  in  weak  vinegar. 

MRS.  BANNOWSKY. 

Sweet  Mixed  Pickles. 

4  tablespoons  mustard  seed;  2  tablespoons  ginger; 
4  tablespoons  celery  seed ;  1  tablespoon  ground  mustard ; 
1  tablespoon  mace;  .1  tablespoon  turmeric;  1  tablespoon 
cinnamon  bark;  1  qt.  sugar. 

Soak  vegetables  over  night  in  brine  strong 
enough  to  carry  an  egg.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar,  and  spices 
about  5  minutes,  then  put  in  well  drained  vegetables, 
let  simmer  for  about  5  minutes,  put  in  jars,  and  seal 
while  hot.    This  \*  enough  for  one  peck  of  pickles. 

MRS.  AD.  WEHMEYER. 
Sweet  Mixed  Pickles. 

Small  head  of  cauliflower;  1  qt.  small  carrot^; 
small  head  of  cabbage ;  1  qt,  of  beans ;  one  or  two  quarts 
of  small  white  onions ;  1  qt.  of  small  cucumbers ;  spices 
and  vinegar  sauce. 

Peel  onions  the  day  before  and  cover  with  salt  over 
night.  Cook  ench  kind  of  vegetable  in  separate  salt 
water  for  five  or  Ten  minutes,  with  the  exception  of 
the  cucumbers.  The  cucumbers  should  not  be  over  two 
inches  long,  and  after  washing,  are  also  covered  with 
salt  over  night,  and  are  not  cooked,  only  drained  from 
the  brine  next  day. 

Mix  all  the  vegetables,  and  fill  into  glass  jars, 
covering  them  with  the  following  vinegar  sauce: 


—  162  — 


To  3  pints  of  vinegar  take  2  pints  of  water,  one 
lb  of  sugar,  a  little  allspice,  mustard  seed,  a  few  small 
red  peppers,  whole  black  peppers,  and  any  other  spices 
you  may  like.  Let  this  come  to  boiling  point  and  pour 
at  once  over  the  pickles,  covering  them  well.  Seal 
while  hot. 

MRS.  WM.  WEYRICH. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt;  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar; 
%  gallon  of  vinegar;  1  gallon  of  tomato  juice;  1 
teaspoon  of  black  pepper;  1  teaspoon  of  red  pepper; 
1  teaspoonful  of  mustard. 

Let  all  boil  1  hour,  then  bottle  while  hot,  and  seal. 

MRS.  G.  E.  WRIGHT. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

1  gal.  tomatoes  (strained);  6  tablespoonfuls  of  salt; 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper;  1  tablespoonful  of 
cloves;  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cinnamon;  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  allspice;  iy2  pints  of  vinegar. 

Boil  down  to  one-half  original  quantity. 

MRS.  HUGO  BASSE. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

1  bucket  ripe  tomatoes;  3  large  onions;  2  small 
pieces  garlic.  Chop  onions  and  garlic  in  small  pieces, 
tie  in  a  cloth  and  boil  with  tomatoes  until  well  done. 
Then  strain.  Tie  1  tablespoon  allspice;  1  tablespoon 
cloves;  1  tablespoon  black  pepper  in  a  cloth  and  boil 
with  pulp  1  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper;  3  tablespoons 
salt;  %  quart  vinegar,  boil  3  hours. 

MRS.  MAX  T.  HENKE. 


—  163  — 


Sweet  Pickled  Peaches  and  Plums. 

8  lb  fruit;  1  qt.  vinegar;  4  lb  sugar;  2  oz.  whole 
cinnamon;  2  oz.  cloves. 

Preferably  take  clingstone  peaches,  either  peel  or 
rub  off  down  with  coarse  towel.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar 
and  spices  5  minutes,  put  in  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time, 
with  a  clove  inserted  into  each.  When  done,  test  by 
pricking  with  a  fork,  remove,  place  in  jars  and  use 
liquid  for  remaining  fruit.  When  fruit  are  all  in  jars, 
simmer  down  the  liquid  to  the  desired  consistency 
(about  half  the  original  quantity),  pour  over  fruit  and 
seal  while  very  hot. 

MRS.  LOUIS  OEHLER. 
MISS  ANNA  GOLD. 
MRS.  C.  W.  FEUGE. 
Green  Tomato  Pickle. 

Cut  up  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  let  stand  24  hours.  Strain  off  liquid,  mix  tomatoes 
with  1  teaspoonful  each  of  black  pepper,  cloves,  nut- 
meg, cinnamon;  12  small  red  peppers;  3  onions;  1  cup 
brown  sugar. 

Cover  with  vinegar  and  boil  for  3  hours. 

Put  in  jars  and  seal  at  once. 

MISS  IRMA  OCHS. 
Sweet  Peach  Pickle. 

10  lb  of  peaches;  4  lb  of  sugar;  1  qt.  of  good 
vinegar;  whole  black  peppers;  2  oz.  of  stick  cinnamon; 
1  oz.  of  whole  cloves. 

Select  small,  firm  peaches.  Dip  them  in  boiling 
water,  then  wipe  dry.  Boil  together  for  five  minutes 
the  sugar,  vinegar,  and  spices.    Then  put  in  one  layer 


—  164  — 


of  peaches  and  let  boil  from  three  to  five  minutes;  take 
out  and  put  in  a  jar.  Add  peaches  again  until  all  are 
used.    Pill  each  jar  with  the  syrup  and  seal. 

MRS.  R.  L.  KOTT. 

MRS.  HENRY  BASSE. 

Canned  Beans. 

String  and  slice  beans,  boil  in  a  little  salt  water 
until  tender,  drain  and  cool. 

Boil  y2  cup  water;  y2  cup  vinegar;  1  tablespoonful 
sugar.  When  cold,  pour  over  beans  in  jars  and  seal, 
taking  care  not  to  fill  the  jars  too  closely. 

MRS.  GEO.  E.  WRIGHT. 

Mustard  Beans. 

1  gal.  sliced  beans;  1  gal.  sliced  onions;  1  quart 
water;  %  Quart  vinegar;  2  cups  sugar;  y2  cup  salt;  2 
tablespoons  black  pepper;  8  tablespoons  mustard. 

Mix  all  thoroughly  and  cook  1  hour.    Seal  while 

hot. 

MRS.  ALFRED  GROBE. 

Canned  Beans. 

Boil  in  salt  water,  put  into  jars,  adding  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar  and  one  of  sugar  to  each  quart 
jar.  Fill  jar  with  freshly  boiling  water,  and  seal  at 
once. 

Canned  Corn. 

12  cups  of  corn;  1  cup  of  sugar;  %  cup  of  salt;  1 
cup  of  water. 

Boil  five  minutes,  pour  into  jars  while  hot. 

MRS.  WM.  CRENWELGE. 


—  165  — 


Canned  Corn. 

8  pints  corn;  3  pints  salt.  Add  a  little  water  to 
the  corn,  cook  for  20  minutes,  then  add  the  salt  and 
cook  5  minutes  longer.   Put  in  jars  while  hot. 

MRS.  ALFRED  SCHMIDT. 

Corn  Relisn. 

10  cups  corn,  cut  from  cob ;  10  cups  cabbage, 
chopped  fine;  5  large  sweet  red  peppers,  chopped  fine; 
Yz  quart  vinegar,  white;  3  tablespoons  salt;  2  cups 
sugar;  4  tablespoons  white  mustard  seed;  2  tablespoons 
celery  seed. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  half  hour. 

MRS.  MAX  BIERSCHWALE. 

Sweet  Pickle  Cabbage. 

Pick  cabbage  and  grind  fine,  put  on  stove,  cover 
in  clear  water.  Add  little  salt.  Cook  until  tender. 
When  done  drain  all  water  off  in  a  vessel,  then  add  1 
cup  of  that  water  that  the  cabbage  was  cooked  in.  Add 
to  that  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  good  vinegar,  let  cook  20 
minutes,  then  put  in  jar  and  seal  while  hot. 

MRS.  ED.  WINKEL. 


TRAVELERS  HOTEL 

NAGEL  &  WUEST 

SAN  ANTONIO,  TEXAS 
U.  S.  A. 


OLD  STAND  MEAT  MARKET 

Main  St.,  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

Richard  Eenke,  Proprietor. 

Fresh  Beef,  Pork,  Mutton,  Lard,  Ham  and  Sausage 
always  on  hand. 

The  Loan  and  Abstract  Co* 

R.  G.  Striegler,  Manager. 
ABSTRACTS,  LOANS,  FIRE  INSURANCE. 

A.  P.  C.  Petsch,  Attorney.        E.  C.  Hansen,  Real  Estate. 


G.  A.  Duerler  Mfg.  Co. 

San  Antonio,  Texas 
Wolesale  Candy  Manufacturers 

Oldest  Candy  Factory  in  the  State 
Please  Call  For  Our  Candy  At  Your  Merchants 


Keidel  &  Kallenberg 

Handle  the  best  and  completest  line  of  goods  to  be  had 
for  the  sick-room  as  well  as  for  the  kitchen  If  your  family 
is  sick  ring  25  or  if  you  need  some  drug  in  the  kitchen  do 
the  same.  Try  some  of  Our  Baking  Powder.  It's  made  here. 

Our  Motto:    Money  Refunded  If  Not  Satisfactory.. 


MAX  T.  HENKE 

Fredericksburg,  Texas 

Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries; 

Poultry,  Butter,  Eggs,  Country  Produce. 
Free  Delivery  Phone  No.  302. 


"SKY  HIGH" 

The  Flour  that  insures  you  good  Bread,  Cakes, 
Rolls,  and  Pastry 

TRY  A  SACK,  SOLD  BY 

GOLD  &  STAHL 

Free  Delivery  Phone  97 


Schandua  &  Reichenau 

Tinners 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


Roofing,  Guttering,  Galvanized  Tanks,  and 
Well  Casing.  We  Repair  Radiators  and  Fenders 


THE)  VOGUE 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

We  Specialize  on  all  Women's  Apparel.  Fine 
Millinery,  Ready  to  Wear,  Dress  Goods,  Trimmings,  and 
Notions. 

PHONE  56.  THE  HOUSE  OF  QUALITY. 


CORNER  CONFECTIONERY 

Makers  of  Pure  Velvet  Ice  Cream.  Sold  in  any 
quantity.  Send  us  your  orders.  Special  orders  for 
parties,  picnics,  etc.  We  serve  only  the  best  at  our 
Fountain. 

WALTER  C.  KLAERNER,  Proprietor 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


SCHMIDT  BROS. 

Dealers  in 

Dry  Goods,  Notions,  Glassware,  Hardware,  Crockery. 

We  handle  the  celebrated  "Brown  Shoe"  makers  of 
Buster  Browns,  Maxine,  White  House,  Blue  Ribbon.  We 
buy  and  sell  for  cash  only. 


SADDLES    AND  HARNESS, 
SADDLERY,  HARDWARE. 

OTTO  EVERS 

Local  Agent  for 
STEWART  SHEARING  MACHINES. 
Fredericksburg,  Texas. 
Shoe  Repairing  in  Connection. 


Food  economy  now,  more  than  ever, 
demands  the  purchase  and  use  of  those  food 
articles  of  known  high  quality  and  absolute 

purity  and  healthfulness. 


L 


Is  a  Pure9  Cream  ©f  Tartar 

BAKING  POWDER 

Contains  No  Alum 

Perfectly  leavens  and  makes  the  food 
more  delicious  and  wholesome. 


The  Favorite  of  Fredericksburg* 


House  Wives  and  Mil- 
lions of  others — as  well 
as  Domestic  Science 
Teachers  everywhere. 

Calumet  Baking  Powder 


You  save  when  you  buy  it,  you  save 
when  you  use  it,  you  save  materials  it  is 
used  with.      "BEST  BY  TEST59 


Fbr "Goodness  Sake 

SAUMS 

THE  NATIONAL  EXTRACT 

VANILLA  AND  32  OTHER  FLAVORS 

THE  LARGEST  SELLING  BRAND  IN  THE  U.S. 


Cuts  Waste  and  Saves  Time 

Economical   and    careful    housewives    everywhere  are 
finding  new  baking  joys  by  the  use  of 

Miss 

P  R  I  NCI  N  E 

Pure  Phosphate  Baking:  Powder 

This  is  the  neAV-fashioned  baking  powder  which  requires 
heat  to  develop  its  full  leavening  strength.  MISS 
PRINCXNE  is  also  the  choice  of  food  experts  at  many 
of  the  big  food  shows  in  the  East, 

Bakings  of  delicious  taste  and  feathery  lightness 
are  your  sure  reward  if  you  use  MISS  PRINCINE — the 
baking  powder  that  rises  as  it  bakes  and  bakes  as  it 
rises. 

In  the  randy-handled  cups: 
1  lb  net  weight  35c  y2  lb  net  weight  20c 

11  ounce  can,  25c 

In  the  handy-handled  pails: 
2y2  lb  75c  5  lb  $1.50 


The  Southern  sWanufasiuring  Co.,  Esmond,  Va. 


OTTO  KOLMEIER 

HARDWARE,  TINWARE,  ROOFING 

Guttering,  Ranges,  Cooking  and  Heating  Stoves,  Guns 
and  Ammunition,  Fishing  Tackle,  Washing  Machines, 
Separators,  Refrigerators,  all  kinds  of  "Wire,  Galvanized 
Tanks. 


SAGEBIEL  MILLINERY  COMPANY 

We  make  a  specialty  of  a  select  and  stylish  assortment  of 
MILLINERY,  HATS  FOR  LADIES,  MISSES,  AND 
CHILDREN,  Trimmings,  etc.,  at  reasonable  prices.  Your 
visit  to  our  store  will  be  highly  appreciated. 


F.  H.  Petermann  &  Co. 

"Butchers" 

Fresh  Meats,  Sausage,  Ham,  Lard  and  Bacon. 

Prompt  Delivery  Phone  77. 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


PRANK  MANISGM 

Druggist 

Fredericksburg,  Texas.  Phone  169. 

We  stock  all  worthy  remedies  as  well  as  toilet  pre- 
parations as  soon  as  they  are  placed  on  the  market. 
Special  orders  will  be  cheerfully  taken  care  of.  Pre- 
scriptions carefully  filled. 


W  GARAGE 

LOUIS  KOTTtfGO. 

Authorized  Ford  Sales  and  Service 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

Q.  H.  Houy  &  Son 

Dealers  In 

Furniture.    Undertakers  and 
Embalmers. 

FREDERICKSBURG ,  TEXAS. 

H.  Kuenemann 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

Lumber,  Hardware,  Paints, 
And  Oil. 

PHONE  NO.  31 

f  *\, 

\    ^'  I 

OSTROW  HOTEL 

John  Ostrow,  Proprietor. 
Centrally  located.  Modern  Conveniences. 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


We  Carry  In  Stock 

the  simple  and  easy-running 
Deering  Binders,  J.  I.  Case  Threshing  Machines,  Moline 
and  Canton  (single  and  double)  Riding  Planters  and 
Cultivaters,  Bain  Wagons,  Hay  Rakes,  Grass  Mowers, 
Hay  Presses,  Moline  Universal  Tractors.  All  products 
of  the  best  factories  kept  in  Stock.  Come  and  see  us  if 
in  need  of  anything  in  our  line. 

CARTER  &  WEIRICH 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


COLLINS  COMPANY 

Wholesale  Grocers  and  Importers 


San  Antonio,  Fredericksburg, 
Kerrville,  and  Uvalde,  Texas 


Everything  in  Groceries.  Exclusive  Distributors  Bud- 
weiser.  Green  River,  The  Snappy  Lime  Drink,  and  Sprague 
7500  Mile  Guaranteed  Tires. 


Maxwell  House 
Coffee 

at  meal  time  whets  the  ap- 
petite and  fills  the  mind 
with  anticipations  of  real 
enjoyment. 

Guaranteed  absolutely  pare  and  thmtfinemt  obtainabim. 

Sealed  Cans  at  Grocers 

CHEEK-NEAL  COFFEE  CO., 

NASHVILLE  HOUSTON  JACKSONVILLE 


UP  TOWN  MEAT  MARKET 

HENKE  BROS. 
Main  St.,  Fredericksburg,  Tex. 

Fresh  Beef,  Mutton,  Sausage,  Lard 

Ham  and  Bacon  always  on  hand. 
Prompt  Delivery  Phone  No.  42 


JUENKE  &  SCHOENEWOLF 

DEALERS  IN 

GENERAL  MERCHANDISE 

Ladies'  and  Gents*  Furnishing  Goods,  Dry 
Goods,  Groceries,  Shelf  Hardware,  All  Country 
Produce 


Alfred  Grobe 

Fruit  Stand,  Phone  227 

Fruit,  Candies,  Fresh  Vegetables,  Cold  Drinks, 
Agent  Magnolia  Oil  and  Gasoline 


Dr.  Felix  Keidel        KEIDEL     BROS.     Dr.  Werner  Keidel 

Dentists 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

Offices  in  Keidel  Building— Over  Keidel  &  Kallenberg's 
Drug  Store. 


\ 


ANTI-ZYMA 

For  Pyorrhea  use  Anti-Zyma  Mouth  Wash.  For  sore 
throat  or  tonsilitis  gargle  the  throat  with  Anti-Zyma 
Mouth-wash.  A  sure  cure  and  gives  instant  relief. 
Made  by  Anti-Zyma  Dental  Medicine  Co.,  Fredericks- 
burg, Texas.    Sold  by  all  Druggists. 


Arthur  Sc  h  aetter 

Headquarters  for 
THE  CELEBRATED  "PATHE"  PHONOGRAPHS. 

A  large  assortment  of  Eecords  on  hand.  Also  Agent 
for  Hoffmann,  Kimball,  Gulbransen,  Kohler  &  Kimball, 
Ivers  &  Ponds  Pianos,  Autopianos  and  Players.  Sample 
Instruments  in  Stock.    Come  and  try  them. 


CONVENIENCE  AND  SAFETY 

are  assured  by  patronizing  one  of  the  most  important 
Home  Industries  in  Fredericksburg- 

The  Fredericksburg  Lights  Power  Co. 

in  using  Electric  Lights,  Power  for  your  Electric  Irons, 
Carpet  Sweepers,  Toasters,  Stoves,  and  Washing 
Machines. 


The  Only  One 

of  its  kind  in  Fredericksburg ! 
A  modern  Machine    Shop,    equipped  with  Oxy- 
Acetylene  Gas  Apparatus  for  welding  all  kinds  of  metals. 

First  Class  Blacksmith -Shop  in  Connection. 
"Auto  Repairing"  "Brunswick  Tires" 

FELIX W.  MAIER,  Proprietor. 


Its  the  quality  of 
LIBERTY  BELL  FLOUR 

that  insures  better  baking 

LIBERTY  MILLS 


gjgjjgSI  San  Antonio, 


Texas. 


Loyal  Musie  Store 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


An  Exclusive  Music  Store 

Headquarters  for  the  Genuine  Victrola  and 
Victrola  Records.  Pianos  and  Player  Pianos 


GUS  MALCHOW 

New  and  Second-hand  Furniture 

Buy,  Sell,  Trade,  Rent  or  Exchange 


CITIZENS  GARAGE 


JOSEPH  BROS.,  Proprietors. 

Next  to  Bank  of  Fredericksburg. 
"Home  for  the   Dodge   Cars''.    Repairing  on  all 
kinds  of  Automobiles  promptly  done. 


Wilbur  C.  Treadweil 

OPTOMETRIST 

Specialist  in  examination  of  the  Eyes  and  fitting  of 
Glasses. 

Room  1.  Gold  Building. 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


Miss  Bertha  Priess.  Mrs.  H.  W.  Kusenberger. 

THE  PARISIAN 

"Priess  &  Kusenberger" 
Millinery,    Fancy   Dress    Goods,    Notions,  Ladies 
Furnishings  and  Ready-to-Wear.    Phone  No.  314. 

PATRONIZE  HOME  INDUSTRY 

by  using: 
PURE  CRYSTALLIZED  ICE 

Manufactured  at 

Stein's  Ice  Factory 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 
Prompt  Delivery.  Phone  163-F2. 


ROSENBERG'S 

GOLD    MEDAL  COFFEE 

It's  Strictly  Pure. 
Rich  In  Aroma  -  Delicious  In  Taste     Sold  under  an  abso= 
lute  guarantee,  at 

COCKRELL'S 

The  Store  that  cuts  prices  on  everything. 


WELGEHAUSENS 

5,    10,    15,  and  25c  Goods 

Kodak  Finishing 

A.  H.  Welgehausen  Sole  Owner 


STUCKE'S  BAKERY  g  CONFECTIONERY 

The  Place  Of  Sweets 

Bread,  Rolls  and  Cakes,    Modern  Baked,  Whole- 
some and  Appetizing. 

Ice  Cream,  Candies  and  Soda  Fountain  in  con- 
nection. 


Boerne  Fredericksburg  Mason 

THE  LAW  OFFICES  OF 

Alfred  P.  C.  Petsch 

F.  J.  BR  ANDES  LAMAR  THAXTON 


wniNriEi/nER  &  co. 

General  Merchandise 

Carry  a  well  selected  Stock  of  Dry  Goods,  Clothing, 
Boots,  Shoes,  Hats,  Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries. 

THE  BEST  OF  EVERYTHING 


Fredericksburg  Bottling  Works 

JACOB  KRAUS,  Proprietor 

All  kinds  of  Soda  Water 

Specialties:    Coca  Cola    and    Orange  Julep 

Manufacturer  of  Fine  Cigars 

A  Summary 

of  the  Recipes  in  this  Book  leaves  the  impression  that  care 
must  be  exercised  in  the  selection  of  INGREDIENTS  in  the 
preparation  of  ALL  GOOD  things  to  eat.  and  that  QUALI- 
TY is  the  WATCHWORD  in  securing  these. 

Henke  &  ffirsch 

Consider  Quality  in  preference  to  quantity  in  ALL  their 
merchandise,  and  you  may  feel  secure  that  you  get  the  best 
of  what  is  to  be  had  when  you  buy  at  their  store.  No 
Schemes,  No  Baits,  but  you  will  find  your  money  will  buy 
just  as  much,  or  even  more,  there,  and  reliable  goods,  at 
that,  as  anywhere. 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 


Star  Brand  Flour 


Success  in  cooking  is  bound  to  follow  a  pro- 
per application  of  tried  recipes  coupled  with 
a  careful  selection  of  ingredients 


The  importance  of  choosing  a  GOOD  FLOUR 
cannot  be  overestimated. 


Watch  for  the  Star 

Are  guaranteed  to  give  perfect  satisfaction 
Manufactured  by 


TEXAS  STAR  FLOUR  MILLS 


The  largest  Wheat  and  Corn  Products  factory  in 
the  Southwest.    New  daily  capacity  5000  BBLS 


NEW  WAY 


Watch  for  the  Star 


AMBROSIA 


GALVESTON  BELLS 

TIDAL  WAVE 
ANITA 


GALVESTON,  TEXAS. 


Established  1878 


FREDERICKSBURG  PUBUSING  CO. 


Wm.  Dietel,  Manager  &  Editor. 
Wm.  Habenicht,  Business  Manager. 
I.  G .  Wehmeyer,  Technical  Dept. 


FREDERICKSBURG   

 0  

Wockenblatt  Standard 

$2.00  per  year  $1.50  per  year 


-0- 


We  do  all  kinds  of  job  work,  both  English  and 
German,  promptly,  neatly,  and  accurately.  Estimates 
cheerfully  furnished. 


This  Cook  Book  is  a  sample  of  our  work,  it  was 
printed  and  bound  in  our  shop. 


CITIZENS  BANK 


(Unincorporated) 

FREDERICKSBURG,  TEXAS. 

Oscar  Krauskopf,  President. 

Mrs.  Alf.  Vander  Stucken,  Vice  President. 

Wm.  Bierschwale,  Cashier. 

Max  J.  Bierschwale.  Asst.  Cashier. 

"Walter  F.  Bierschwale,  Asst.  Cashier. 

YOUR  ACCOUNTS  SOLICITED. 


Bros.  Monumental  Works 

Owners  of  Celebrated 
BEAR  MOUNTAIN  RED  GRANITE  QUARRIES 

One  of  the  finest  grained  Granites  in  U.  S. 
Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


Ask  your  Grocer  for: 

HUGHES 

X  X  WHITE  OR  PICKLING  VINEGAR 

Best  for  pickling  and  table  use! 

R.  M.  HUGHES  &CO. 

Louisville,  Ky.,  San  Antonio,  Texas. 


ED.  KNOPP 

TIN  SHOP 

Dealer  in  Stoves,  Tin  and  Enambled  Ware.  Agent 
for  the  "White  Lily"  Washing  Machines,  New  Per- 
fection and  Florence  Oil  Stoves. 


Oscar  Krauskopf 

Dealer  in 

Farm  Implements,  Water  Supply  Material 

The  Auto  Oil  Aermotor  Windmill.  Sanitary 
Plumbinc,  Etc. 


FARMERS  PRODUCE  CO. 

Agents  for 

Landas  Flour  and  all  Mill  Products 

Use  "iMinnehaha"  and  "Perfection"  Flour.  The  Flour  with- 
out regrets  on  Baking  Day. 


ROBERT  BLUM 

GENERAL  MERCHANDISE 
Fredericksburg  Texas. 

Call  for  "Pioneer"  Flou,  best  on  market.    We  buy 
Cotton,  Wrheat,  Oats,  and  all  Country  Produce. 

Store  Phone  No.  8  Warehouse  Phone  No.  238 


Bank  Of  Fredericksburg 

(Unincorporated) 
Member  American  Bankers  Assn. 
Member  Texas  Bankers  Assn. 

ONE  OF  THE  OLDEST  AND  STRONGEST  BANKS 
IN  THE  WEST. 
Stockholders : 

Temple  D.  Smith         Adolph  Gold 
Albert  Koennecke         Mrs.  Fred  Walter 
Elsa  Walter 

Your  Money  in  this  Bank  is  insured  against  all  loss  by 
Robbery  or  Fire. 

Temple  D.  Smith,  Ad.  Gold, 

President.  Active  Vice.  Pres. 

Alb.  Koennecke,  Alex  W.  Henke, 

Cashier.  Asst.  Cashier. 

Lawrence  Knopp,  Asst.  Cashier. 


Pioneer  Flour  Mills 


TEXAS 

ioxee: 


SAN  ANTONIO,  T£X. 

PIONEER 


"Pioneer  Flour" 

—Unbleached- 
No  Chemicals 


Pioneer  Flour  Mills 

SAN  ANTONIO,     Since  1851 


EVERY  housewife  is  as  particular  about  taking- 
care  of  their  clothes  as  they  are  about  the  cooking. 
That's  the  reason  why  many  let  us  do  their  cleaning  and 
pressing. 

ST  EH  LING  BROS. 


THE  CENTRAL  DRUG  CO. 

has  the  best  for  you  in: 
Biological  Products,  Drugs,  Patent  Medicines. 
Columbia  Grrafonolas,  Records,  Toilet  Articles,  and  Books 

F.  STEIN  &  SON 

WHY  NOT  OWN  YOUR  OWN  HOME? 

Let  F.  Stein  &  Son  help  you  plan  your  new  home. 
PHONE  230. 


PHONE  268 — A  GROCERY  NUMBER! 

Use  it  often,  for  your  Grocery  Wants!  We  deliver 
promptly.  We  handle  the  best  brands  of  Flour,  Ex- 
tracts and  Spices. 

QUALITY  CASH  GROCERY 

W.  E.  Knoche.  Reuben  Bernhardt. 


OEHLER  BROS. 

Call  on  Oehler  Bros,  for  Beapers,  Mowers,  Bakes, 
Cultivators,  Wagons,  Corn  Shellers  and  Wheat  Threshers 
combined,  Tractors  and  Engines,  also  Cream  Separators. 

First  Class  Garage  in  Connection. 


ARTHUR  KELLER 

Headquarters  for 
FARMS,  RANCHES,  AND  CITY  PROPERTY. 

" Loans  made  Promptly." 
Office  in  Klaerner  Bldg.  Phone  275. 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 


You  Can  Bake  Bread 
Perfectly  With  This 
Oil  Stove 


If  you  think  it  is  impos- 
sible to  bake  bread  or 
pastries  on  an  oil  stove, 
come  in  and  see  the  new- 
tipe,  all  the  year'  round 
wickless. 


EStf  13 


Detroit  Vupor  QdStoP+ 


KOLMEIER  A  KLIER  CO. 


Peter's  Confectionery  and  Cafe 

Fredericksburg,  Texas. 
Walter  Peter,  Manager. 

OPERA  HOUSE  AND  DANCE  HALL. 

Moving  Picture  Show  in  Connection. 

A  pleasant  place  where  you  and  your  friends  are 
always  welcome. 

Your  Patronage  appreciated! 


ROBERT  S.  KLETT 

Phone  No.  4.  Fredericksburg,  Texas. 

For  perfect  results  and  satisfaction  on  Baking  Day, 

use: 

"Bob  White",  "Liberty  Bell"  &  "Hearts  Delight "  Flour 


Model  Tailor  Shop 

Cleaning,  Pressing,  Dyeing,  Altering, 

and  Repairing  for  Ladies   and   Gentlemen.    All  work 

called  for  and  delivered. 
Satisfaction  Guaranteed.  Phone  70. 


CONTENTS. 


Relishes    9  to  12 

Soups   13  to  17 

Oysters  and  Fish  18  to  22 

Poultry  and  Game    23  to  28 

Meats    29  to  38 

Macaroni  and  Rice   39  to  42 

Pancakes    43 

Eggs,  Potatoes,  etc   39  to  45 

Vegetables    46  to  55 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings  56  to  69 

Puddings   70  to  77 

Pastry,  Pies  and  Tarts  78  to  88 

Bread    89  to  92 

Yeast  Cakes    90  to  91 

Coffee  Cake,  Rolls,  Doughnuts  and  Gems  92  to  96 

Cookies    97  to  111 

Layer  Cakes  and  Frostings   112  to  126 

Loaf  Cakes  127  to  141 

Extra  Hints    142 

Sandwiches    143  to  145 

Confectionery   146  to  151 

Jellies  and  Preserves    152  to  154 

Catsups,  Pickles,  etc   155  to  165 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  485  416  0  $ 


