TX  837 
.C5913 
1908 
Copy   1 


ITCHEN 


*^> 


DY 


MRS.^NNA  LGOLCPRD 


CopightN". 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


THE   AUTHOR 


A  FRIEND  IN  THE 
KITCHEN 

OR 

What  to  Cook  and  How  to  Cook  It 


CONTAINING 


About  400  Choice  Recipes  Carefully  Tested 


TOGETHER    WITH 

Plain  Directions  on  Healthful  Cookeryi  How  to  Can  Fruiti  A  Week's  Menui  Proper  Food 

Combinationsi  Rules  for  Dyspeptics;  Food  for  Infantsi  Simple  Dishes  for  the  Sicki 

Wholesome  Drinksi  Useful  Tables   on  Nutritive  Values  of  Foodsi  Time 

Required  to    Digest  Foods;   Weights  and    Measures  for  the 

Kitchen,  etc. 


By  Mrs,  Anna  L.  Colcord 


Sixteenth  Edition,  i6oth  Thousand 


"TAere  is  religion  in  a  good  loaf  of  bread.'"'' 

^'Bad  Cooking  diminishes  happiness  and  shortens  life.^^ 


Review  and  Herald  Publishing  Association 

Takoma  Park  Station,  Washington,  D.  C. 
Copyrighted  iSgg,  1908  by  the  Author.    All  rights  reserved. 


lIbhary  of  oeNasEssJ 

twu  Copies  KecwvM 

AUG  29  ^y^» 


■-•muv     H-       * 


^i 


C-'O 


^^\> 


THE    ART    OF    ARTS 

Some  maids  are  gifted  with  the  art 
Of  painting  like  the   masters; 

To  dullest  canvas  they  impart 
The  freshness  of  the  pastures. 

While  others,  with  their  ready  pen, 
Find  hours  of  busy  pleasure 

In  polished  prose,  or  then,  again, 
In  light  poetic  measure. 

Another,  like  a  woodland  bird, 
May  set  the  sad  world  ringing 

With  carols  sweet  as   ever  heard; 
Here  is  the  art  of  singing. 

But  there's  a  maid  and  there's  an  art 
To  which  the  world  is  looking, — 

The  nearest  art  unto  the  heart, — 
The  good  old  art  of  cooking. 

—  Selected. 


^^ 


a 


PRACTICAL   'OLOGIES 

Daughter. — "  Yes,  I've  graduated,  but  now  I  must  inform 
myself  in  psychology,  philology,  bibli—  " 

Practical  Mother.- — "  Stop  right  where  you  are:  I  have  ar- 
ranged for  you  a  thorough  course  in  '  roastology,'  '  boilology,' 
'  stitchology,'  '  darnology,'  '  patchology,'  and  general  domestic 
*  hustleology.'  Now  get  on  your  working  clothes." — Detroit 
Free  Press. 

A  little  girl  who,  when  having  her  Scripture  lesson,  was 
asked  by  her  sister  Ruth,  "Why  did  God  make  Eve?"  replied, 
"  To  cook  for   Adam,  o'  course." —  Christian   World. 


There  are  some  tombstones  upon  which  the  inscription 
might  very  properly  be  written, _^  "  He  died  a  victim  to  poor 
cooking."  ,',    I 


Pref 


ace 


The  object  of  this  work  is  to  furnish  in  an  inexpensive 
and  convenient  form,  plain  directions  on  healthful  cookery. 
Special  attention  has  been  given  to"'the  idea  of  presenting 
such  recipes  as  will  tend  to  make  the  living  of  the  family 
what  it  should  be, —  simple,  economical,  wholesome,  nutri- 
tious, palatable,  and  varied. 

The  housewife  is  often  perplexed  to  know  just  what  to 
-  cook ;  but  if  she  has  at  hand  something  which  will  suggest 
to  her  what  she  desires  but  can  not  think  of,  she  has  that 
which  is  indeed  a  friend. 

The  author  has  tried  to  make  the  work  sufficiently 
comprehensive  to  answer  the  demands  of  an  ordinary 
household. 

The  recipes  for  the  preparation  of  grains,  fruits,  nuts, 
and  vegetables  occupy  a  large  portion  of  the  work.  Cream 
is  mentioned  in  a  number  of  the  recipes,  but  while  its  use 
is  to  be  preferred  instead  of  butter,  especially  if  sterilized, 
substitutes  have  generally  been  suggested  where  it  is  not 
at  hand  or  available. 

Pains  have  been  taken  to  make  the  recipes  plain  and 
explicit,  and  yet  as  brief  as  possible  consistent  with  these 
ends.  The  amount  of  the  various  ingredients  required 
has  generally  been  indicated  by  measure,  rather  than  by 
weight,  as  this  is  usually  more  convenient  and  time-saving. 

It  is  hoped  that  this  little  work  will  be  found  to  be  a 
real  friend  in  the  kitchen.  That  it  may  be  such,  and  that 
it  may  prove  a  blessing  to  thousands  in  many  lands,  is  the 
sincere  wish  of  —  The  Author. 


IMPORTANCE  OF  GOOD  COOKING 

HEALTHFUL  cookery  is  not  receiving  the  attention 
which  its  importance  demands.  Although  we  are 
living  at  a  time  when  eating  and  drinking  are  carried  to 
excess,  and  when  elaborate  bills  of  fare  are  frequently- 
placed  before  us,  yet  plain,  simple,  and  healthful  cookery 
occupies  but  a  comparatively  small  place  in  the  culinary 
world  to-day. 

Good  food  is  of  primary  importance.  We  live  upon 
what  we  eat.  It  is  not  sufficient,  however,  merely  to  select 
good  food.  To  be  well  digested  and  thoroughly  assimilated 
the  food  must  be  properly  prepared.  The  best  food  may 
be  spoiled  in  cooking.  The  kind  of  food  upon  which  we 
live,  and  the  manner  in  which  it  is  prepared,  determines 
la'rgely  our  physical  well-being,  and  consequently  much  of 
our  happiness  or  misery  in  this  life. 

"  For  love,  nor  honor,  wealth,  nor  power, 
Can  give  the  heart  a  cheerful  hour 
When  health  is  lost.     Be  timely  wise; 
With  health  all  taste  of  pleasure  flies." 

Moreover,  the  mind  is  affected  by  the  condition  of  the 
body,  and  the  morals  by  the  state  of  the  mind.  As,  there- 
fore, cooking  determines  to  a  large  degree  the  condition 
of  the  body,  it  must  also  affect  to  a  considerable  extent 
our  moral  and  spiritual  welfare.  It  is  not  too  much  to 
say,  therefore,  that  there  is  religion  in  good  cooking. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  5 

It  has  been  truly  said  that  "  the  cook  fills  an  important 
place  in  the  household.  She  is  preparing  food  to  be  taken 
into  the  stomach,  to  form  brain,  bone,  and  muscle.  The 
health  of  all  the  members  of  the  family  depends  largely 
upon  her  skill  and  intelligence."  As  the  lives  of  those  on 
a  steamship  are  in  the  hands  of  the  helmsman,  so  the  lives 
and  the  health  of  the  members  of  the  family  are,  to  a  great 
degree,  in  the  hands  of  the  one  who  prepares  their  meals. 

Thousands  are  dying  annually  as  the  result  of  poor 
cooking.  Food  poorly  prepared  is  not  nutritious,  and  can 
not,  therefore,  make  good  blood. 

Some  may  say  they  have  no  natural  ability  to  cook ; 
but  any  one  having  ordinary  intelligence,  with  a  little 
effort,  care,  and  proper  directions,  can  learn  to  cook  well. 
And  surely  the  health  of  the  family  ought  to  be  of  suffi- 
cient importance  to  inspire  every  mother  with  ambition  to 
learn  how  to  cook. 

Mothers  should  also  teach  their  daughters  the  mysteries 
of  good  cooking.  They  should  show  them  that  this  is  an 
essential  part  of  their  education, —  more  essential  than  the 
study  of  music,  fancy  work,  the  dead  languages,  or  the 
sciences.  The  knowledge  of  these  latter  without  the  knowl- 
edge of  how  to  care  for  the  body  and  provide  it  with  suit- 
able nourishment,  is  of  little  worth.  Meredith  hit  upon  a 
great  truth  when  he  said:  — 

"We  may  live  without  music,  poetry,  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart. 
We  may  live  without  friends;  we  may  live  without  books; 
But  civilized  man  can  not  live  without  cooks." 

No  young  woman  should  contemplate  marriage  until 
she  has  first  acquired  a  practical  knowledge  of  simple 
cookery,  for  this  is  essential,  whether  she  expects  to  do 
the  cooking  herself,  or  supervise  the  maid.  Although  bread 
is  the  staff  of  life,  it  is  a  sad  fact  that  a  large  proportion 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


of  the  daughters  of  the  present  generation  do  not  know 
how  to  make  a  good  loaf  of  bread.  They  have  not  been 
instructed  in  the  useful  art  of  cookery,  so  that  when  they 
have  families  of  their  own  they  can  provide  for  their  tables 
a  well-cooked  dinner,  prepared  with  nicety,  so  that  they 
would  not  blush  "  to  place  it  before  their  most  esteemed 
friends. 

There  has  never  been  an  age  so  noted  for  dyspeptics  as 
the  present,  and  there  was  perhaps  never  before  a  time 
when  there  was  a  greater  scarcity  of  good  cooks. 

"  Though  we  boast  of  modern  progress  as  aloft  we  proudly  soar 
Above  untutored  cannibals  whose  habits  we  deplore, 
Yet  in  our  daily  papers  any  day  you  chance  to  look 
You  may  find  this  advertisement:  'Wanted — A  Girl  to  Cook.'" 

Good  cooking  does  not  consist  in  the  preparation  of 
highly  seasoned  foods  to  pamper  a  perverted  appetite, 
but  in  cooking  with  simplicity,  variety,  and  skill  natural 
foods  in  a  palatable  and  wholesome  manner.  To  assist  in 
this  direction  is  the  object  of  this  little  work. 

But  no  workman  can  work  without  materials  and  tools. 
The  necessary  materials  for  cooking  are  indicated  in  the 
recipes  given  in  this  book.  Illustrations  of  many  of  the 
most  necessary  and  useful  cooking  utensils  will  be  found 
scattered  throughout  the  work. 

A  very  convenient  and  easily  constructed  wall  rack, 
which  may  be  placed  over  the  kitchen  work  table,  is  shown 
in  the  following  cut : 


O  hour  of  all  hours,  the  most  pleasant  on  earth, 
Happy  hour  of  our  dinners !  —  Meredith.     • 

Soup  rejoices  the  stomach,  and  disposes  it  to  receive  and 
digest  other  food. —  Brillat  Savavin. 

It  is  important  that  we  relish  the  food  we  eat. —  Christian 
Temperance. 

V^      ^      ^ 

SOUP  is  easily  prepared,  economical,  and  when  made 
from  healthful  materials,  is  a  very  wholesome  article 
of  diet.  It  adds  much  to  the  elegance  and  relish  of  a 
dinner,  and,  if  taken  in  small  quantities,  is  a  good  means 
of  preparing  the  whole  system  to  assirhilate  a  hearty  meal. 

Soups  afford  an  excellent  opportunity  for  using  left-over 
foods  which  might  otherwise  be  wasted.  A  combination 
of  vegetables  left  over  from  the  previous  day,  such  as  a 
cupful  of  mashed  potatoes,  some  stewed  peas,  beans,  or 
lentils,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiled  rice,  stewed  tomatoes,  or 
other  bits  of  vegetables  or  grains,  if  in  good  order,  make  a 
very  palatable  and  nourishing  soup.  The  vegetables  should 
be  put  all  together  in  a  saucepan  with  enough  water  to 
cover  them,  let  simmer  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  rubbed 
through  a  colander,  and  returned  to  the  saucepan  with 
sufficient  water  added  to  make  the  soup  of  proper  con- 
sistency,  reheated,  seasoned,   and   served. 

For  seasoning  soup,  a  few  spoonfuls   of   cream,   or  a 

7 


8  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

little  butter  or  nut  butter  may  be  used,  though,  if  properly 
made,  it  is  quite  relishable  without. 

We  wish  all  our  readers  success  with  the  following 
simple  but  delicious  kinds. 

U?      )^      )g 

BEAN  SOUP 

For  two  quarts  of  soup  soak  one  pint  of  beans  overnight.  In 
the  morning  drain,  and  put  to  cook  in  cold  water,  adding  one- 
third  cup  of  well-washed  rice  if  desired;  boil  slowly  for  about 
two  hours.  When  done,  rub  through  a  colander,  thin  with 
boiling  water,  and  season  with  a  little  butter  and  salt. 

POTATO    SOUP 

Pare  and  slice  three  medium-sized  potatoes,  and  put  to  cook 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onion,  or  stalk  of  celery 
chopped  fine,  in  sufficient  water  to  cover.  If  celery  is  not  at 
hand,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  celery  salt  may  be  used  instead. 
Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stir  well,  and  cook  one 
minute;  then  add  gradually  one  quart  of  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  thickened.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes.  As  soon  as 
the  potatoes  are  done,  and  the  water  nearly  absorbed,  rub, 
without  draining,  through  a  colander,  and  add  them  to  the  hot, 
thickened  milk.     Season  with  salt,  and  serve. 

GREEN    PEA    SOUP 

Add  to  a  quart  of  green  peas  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and 
enough  water  to  cover;  cook  gently  until  tender,  and  the  water 
quite  absorbed.  Then  rub  through  a  colander,  add  a  quart  of 
milk,  salt  to  taste,  and  return  to  the  fire.  Heat  to  boiling,  then 
add  a  spoonful  of  flour,  mixed  smooth  with  a  little  butter,  then 
to  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  of  the  soup.  Simmer  for  a  few  min- 
utes, and  serve  with  croutons.  If  desired,  a  little  onion  or 
celery  may  be  added  for  seasoning  during  the  last  few  minutes 
of  cooking,  and  then  be  removed. 

SPLIT    PEA    SOUP 

Wash  one  cupful  of  dried,  split  peas,  and  soak  for  several 
hours,  or  overnight,  in  cold  water.  Then  put  to  cook  in  three 
pints  of  cold  water,  and  boil  slowly  until  thoroughly  dissolved, 
adding  more  water  occasionally  to  keep  the  quantity  good. 
Stir  up  frequently  from  the  bottom  of  the  kettle.  Rub  through 
a  colander;  add  water  or  rich  milk  to  make  the  proper  consist- 
ency, and  return  to  the  fire.  Brown  slightly  one  tablespoonful 
of  flour  in  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  cooking  oil,  then  thin  it 


A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen  9 

with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  soup;  stir  this  into  the  boiling 
soup,  with  salt  to  taste;  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve.  An 
onion  chopped  fine  and  browned  with  the  flour  may  be  used  for 
seasoning;  also  a  cupful  of  tomatoes  may  be  cooked  with  the 
peas  before   straining,  if  desired. 

SPLIT    PEA    AND    VERMICELLI    SOUP 

Make  the  soup  as  above.  Cook  one-half  cup  of  vermicelli 
in  a  cupful  of  boiling  water  for  ten  minutes  and  add  to  the  soup. 

TOMATO    SOUP 

Put  a  quart  can  of  tomatoes  in  a  porcelain  stewpan,  add  a 
pint  of  water,  and  stew  until  well  done.  Brown  lightly  in  a 
frying-pan  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  or  cooking  oil;  then  mix  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  flour  or  cornstarch;  thin  this  with  a  little  of  the  soup,  and 
then  stir  it  into  the  soup.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes,  run  through 
a  colander,  reheat,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot  with  croutons. 

CREAM    OF    TOMATO    SOUP 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  canned  or  fresh  tomatoes,  add  a  cupful 
of  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion,  and,  if  desired,  a 
little  chopped  celery;  stew  till  tender,  then  rub  through  a  col- 
ander. Heat  one  quart  of  milk  to  boiling.  Have  mixed  smooth 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  one  level  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
then  thin  with  a  little  of  the  hot  milk.  Stir  this  into  the  milk 
as  soon  as  it  starts  to  boil,  and  cook  for  several  minutes,  adding 
salt  to  taste.  Then  add  the  tomatoes.  Do  not  cook  or  let  stand 
after  the  tomatoes  are  added,  but  serve  at  once. 

LENTIL    SOUP 

Cook  one  cupful  of  lentils,  previously  soaked  an  hour  or  two 
in  about  a  quart  of  water,  until  tender.  Rub  through  a  colander; 
return  to  the  fire,  adding  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  quart 
in  all,  a  small  onion  cut  in  slices,  and  salt  to  taste.  When  heated 
to  boiling,  thicken  to  the  consistency  of  cream  with  browned 
flour.  Season  with  a  little  butter  or  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sweet 
cream.  If  butter  is  used  it  should  be  mixed  or  braided  with 
the  flour,  then  thinned  with  enough  of  the  soup  so  that  it  can 
be  easily  poured  in.  Simmer  for  ten  minutes  after  adding  the 
flour.  Remove  the  onion  before  serving.  The  German  or  dark 
lentils  are  usually  cheaper  than  the  Egyptian  or  red  lentils. 

LENTIL  AND  TOMATO  SOUP 

Soak  one  cupful  of  lentils  in  cold  water  for  a  few  hours,  then 
cook  in  a  quart  of  water  until  tender,  with  one  small  onion, 
three  or  four  fresh  tomatoes,  or  two  cupfuls  of  stewed  ones, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter,  if  desired.  Rub  through  a 
colander,  add  hot  water  to  make  three  pints   in  all,   reheat  to 


10  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

boiling,  and  slightly  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of  browned  flour 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water.  Season  with  a  small  lump  of 
butter  or  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream. 

TOMATO    AND  MACARONI    SOUP 

Drop  a  cupful  of  macaroni  broken  into  small  pieces  into 
three  or  four  cupfuls  of  boiling,  slightly  salted,  water;  boil 
from  thirty  to  sixty  minutes,  or  until  tender,  the  length  of 
time  required  depending  upon  whether  the  macaroni  is  fresh 
or  stale.  Have  stewing  one  quart  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes, 
and  when  done,  rub  through  a  colander;  drain  the  macaroni, 
and  add  it  to  the  tomatoes,  with  hot  water  to  make  about  three 
pints  in  all.  Reheat,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  butter,  and, 
after  removing  from  the  fire,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sweet 
cream  if  convenient.     Serve  as  soon  as  the  cream  is  added. 

RICE    SOUP 

Wash  one-third  cup  of  rice  and  put  to  cook  in  about  three 
cupfuls  of  water,  adding  a  little  salt;  cook  until  tender.  Then 
add  one  quart  of  milk,  and  salt  to  taste;  reheat  to  boiling.  Have 
ready  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  mixed  smooth  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  then  made  thin  with  a  little  of  the  hot  milk;  pour 
this  into  the  soup  and  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Celery  may  be 
added  for  flavoring  if  desired.  Also,  if  desired  richer,  a  beaten 
yolk  of  egg,  first  mixed  with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  hot  soup 
to  prevent  coagulating,  may  be  added  to  the  soup  a  few  min- 
utes before  serving. 

SAGO    PEA    SOUP 

Wash,  soak,  and  cook  one  cupful  of  split  peas  in  plenty  of 
water  until  tender;  rub  through  a  colander,  return  to  the  fire, 
adding  enough  hot  water  to  make  three  pints  in  all,  and  a  few 
slices  of  onion.  Wash  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sago  in  warm 
water,  and  stir  gradually  into  the  soup;  simmer  for  a  half-hour, 
or. until  well  dissolved.  Remove  the  onion,  and  season  with 
salt.  Add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  thin  cream  or  rich  milk  to  the 
beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  stir  into  the  soup  a  few  minutes 
before    serving. 

SAGO    FRUIT    SOUP     (SUMMER) 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  sago  for  an  hour  in  a  cup  of  cold  water; 
then  add  a  quart  of  hot  water,  and  simmer  until  transparent. 
In  the  meantime  cook  together  one  cup  of  prunes  and  one-half 
cup  of  raisins  in  a  small  quantity  of  water.  When  the  sago  is 
transparent,  add  the  fruit,  together  with  one-half  cup  of  curiant, 
plum,  or  some  other  tart  fruit  juice,  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar. 
This  will  make  three  pints  of  soup.     Serve  hot  with  croutons. 

Instead  of  the  above,  rice  with  dried  apricots,  and  prune  or 
currant  juice  may  be  used. 


A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen  11 

VEGETABLE    SOUP     (SUMMER) 

Take  a  cupful  each  of  chopped  turnips,  carrots,  cauliflower 
or  cabbage,  several  young  onions  cut  fine,  one  cupful  of  green 
peas,  one  tablespoonful  parsley  or  bay  leaves  for  flavoring,  and 
stew  together  in  a  stewpan  with  water  to  cover  for  six  or  eight 
minutes;  then  drain,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water,  and  stew 
slowly  until  tender,  and  the  water  nearly  absorbed.  Strain 
through  a  colander.  Add  enough  hot  rich  milk  or  cream  to 
make  quite  thin,  salt  to  taste,  reheat,  and   serve. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP  (WINTER) 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  stewpan  or  soup 
kettle,  add  one  onion  chopped  fine,  and  brown  nicely;  stir  fre- 
quently to  prevent  burning.  To  this  add  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  mix  thoroughly,  then  pour  in  slowly  a  pint  of  hot  water, 
stirring  to  keep  smooth.  Add  to  this  one-half  cupful  each  of 
chopped  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery,  one  cupful  of  tomatoes, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  or  powdered 
parsley,  bay  leaves  or  thyme,  and  a  slice  of  bread  toasted  very 
brown.  Boil  two  potatoes  for  ten  minutes,  drain,  and  add  them 
to  the  soup.  Simmer  all  till  well  done,  run  through  a  colander, 
add  hot  water  to  make  of  proper  consistency,  a  little  more  salt 
if  desired,  and  serve  hot. 

VEGETABLE    SOUP    STOCK 

Put  into  a  kettle  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  three  pints  of 
water,  and  place  over  the  fire;  add  one  onion,  one  or  two  pared 
potatoes,  and  one  carrot,  all  finely  chopped,  one  teaspoonful  of 
celery  salt,  two  bay  leaves,  and  cook  slowly  for  one  hour.  Run 
through  a  colander,  and  add  salt  to  taste.  Add  to  this  cooked 
macaroni,  spaghetti,  vermicelli,  corn,   or  rice. 

BARLEY     SOUP 

Cook  a  cupful  of  pearl  barley  in  three  pints  of  water  for 
several  hours,  adding  water  as  needed  to  keep  the  quantity 
good.  When  done,  add  salt  and  a  little  cream,  or  the  beaten 
yolk  of  an  egg. 

NOODLE    SOUP 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  thoroughly,  then  add  one  cup  of 
sifted  flour,  and  knead  well  for  five  or  ten  minutes;  divide  into 
four  parts,  roll  each  part  nearly  as  thin  as  a  knife  blade,  and 
place  on  a  clean  cloth  near  the  fire  to  dry.  When  dried  suffi- 
ciently so  that  they  will  not  stick  together  when  rolled  up,  or 
be  so  dry  as  to  be  brittle,  roll  each  piece  up  into  a  roll,  and 
with  a  sharp  knife-  cut  or  shave  crosswise  into  very  narrow 
slices,  about  one-twelfth  of  an  inch  in  width.  Shake  out  well, 
and  let  dry  thoroughly.  Then  drop  into  hot  salted  water,  and 
boil  twenty  minutes;   drain  off  the  water  well,  add   a  quart  of 


12  A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen 

milk,   salt  to  taste,  reheat,  and  serve.     Noodles  may  be  added 
to  other   soups  instead   of  macaroni. 

ASPARAGUS     SOUP 

Take  two  bundles  of  fresh,  tender  asparagus,  wash,  cut  into 
short  lengths,  and  put  to  cook  in  a  quart  of  hot  water.  Let 
cook  slowly  till  tender,  and  the  water  reduced  one-half;  rub 
through  a  colander,  add  three  cups  of  milk,  a  spoonful  or  two 
of  cream,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  heat  to  boiling,  and  serve  with 
croutons.  A  half  cup  of  well-cooked  rice  may  be  stirred  into 
the  soup  before  serving  if  desired. 

FOUNDATION    FOR    CREAM    OF    VEGETABLE    SOUPS 

Rub  one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour  to  a  cream, 
then  slowly  pour  into  it  one  quart  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  well. 
Allow  to  thicken,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  the  seasoning  and 
ingredients,  as  canned  corn,  peas,  celery,  asparagus,  salsify,  etc., 
desired  for  the  soup.  To  make  the  soup  richer,  a  beaten  egg, 
or  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  may  be  put  into  the  tureen  before 
turning  in  the  soup. 

CROUTONS     FOR     SOUP 

Cut  bread  into  small  cubes  from  one-half  inch  to  an  inch 
square,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  A  spoonful  or  two  of 
the  croutons  may  be  placed  in  each  plate,  and  the  hot  soup 
turned  over  them,  or  placed  in  a  dish  on  the  table  for  use  as 
desired. 

BROWNED  FLOUR  FOR  SOUPS 

Spread  a  small  quantity  of  flour  on  shallow  tins,  and  brown 
lightly  in  a  moderately  hot  oven;  stir  often  enough  to  prevent 
any  part  from  scorching.  A  quantity  may  be  prepared  and  put 
away  in  covered  jars  for  use. 

SEASONING    FOR    SOUPS 

Ground  nuts  with  herbs,  dried  and  powdered  nicely,  flavor 
and  enrich  vegetable  soups,  gravies,  and  sauces. 

HERBS     FOR     SOUPS 

Herbs,  such  as  bay  leaves,  parsley,  thyme,  etc.,  are  valuable 
for  flavoring  soups,  savories,  and  gravies.  They  can  be  obtained 
at  a  druggists,  and  a  few  cents'  worth  will  last  a  long  time. 


"  O  stay  me  with  rice  and  with  porridge 
O  comfort  me  sweetly  with  grits! 
Baked  beans  give  me  plenty  of  courage. 
And  cracked  wheat  enlivens  my  wits." 
No  one  should  adopt  an  impoverished  diet. 
Bring  me  my  breakfast  —  oatmeal   and  boiled   eggs. —  A.   T. 
Stewart,  the  millionaire. 

Carlyle,  catching  a  glimpse  of  Macaulay's  face,  once  re- 
marked, "Well,  any  one  can  see  that  you  are  an  honest,  good 
sort  of  a  fellow,  made  out  of  oatmeal." 

Dr.  Johnson,  who  entertained  a  great  dislike  for  the  Scots, 
and  lost  no  opportunity  of  saying  bitter  things  against  them, 
once  defined  oats  as  "in  Scotland  food  for  Scotchmen;  but  in 
England,  food  for  horses."  He  was  well  answered  by  the  indig- 
nant Scotchman,  who  replied,  "  Yes,  and  where  can  you  find 
such  men  as  in  Scotland,  or  such  horses  as  in  England?" 

^a    )^    ^ 

MOST  grains  require  prolonged  cooking,  and  slow 
cooking  is  preferable  to  fast.  They  are  frequently 
served  in  the  form  of  mush,  and  too  often  in  an  under- 
done state.  Thorough  cooking  not  only  breaks  up  the 
food,  but  partially  digests  the  starch  contained  in  it. 

Salt  should  be  added  to  the  water  before  stirring  in  the 
grain  or  meal. 

All  grains  and  meals  should  be  put  into  actively  boil-, 
ing  water  to  prevent  them  from  having  a  raw  taste,  and 
allowed  to  boil  fast  until  they  "  set,"  or  thicken,  and  cease 
sinking  to  the  bottom;  till  then  they  should  be  stirred  fre- 
quently, but  gently,  to  prevent  burning.  After  the  grain  has 
thickened,  it  should  be  stirred  very  little,  or  none  at  all. 

13 


14  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

Enough  grain  or  meal  should  be  used  to  make  the 
mush  quite  thick  and  glutinous  when  done.  Watery  or 
sloppy  mush  is  neither  palatable  nor  strengthening  to  the 
digestive  organs  when  used  constantly.  In  fact,  it  should 
not  be  considered  necessary  to  have  mush  every  morning. 
A  change  occasionally  to  drier  foods 
is  better  for  the  digestion. 

An  excellent  utensil  for  cooking 
grains  is  a  milk  or  mush  boiler, 
generally  called  a  double  boiler. 
This  consists  of  one  vessel  set  inside 
of  another,  the  inner  one  containing 

Double  Boiler  ^^^   ^^^^"   ^°    ^^    cooked,    the   other 

partly  filled  with  boiling  water.  An 
ordinary  saucepan,  however,  will  do  very  well,  if  smooth, 
and  by  greasing  the  inside  with  a  little  butter  before  putting 
in  the  water,  the  tendency  of  the  grain  to  adhere  to  the 
saucepan  will  be  greatly  obviated. 

If  a  double  boiler  is  used,  allow  the  grain  to  boil  in 
the.  inner  vessel  standing  directly  over  the  range  until  it 
"  sets,"  then  cover  and  place  in  the  outer  vessel,  the  water 
in  which  must  also  be  boiling  in  order  that  the  c.ooking 
process  be  not  checked  ;  then  leave  to  cook  slowly  until  done. 
From  three  to  four  hours  is  not  too  long  when  the  double 
boiler  is  used.  Grain  prepared  in  this  way  may  be  cooked 
on  the  previous  day  and  simply  warmed  up  again  the  next 
morning  for  breakfast.  What  is  left  over  from  any  meal 
may  be  used  in  the  next  preparation. 

If  a  hastily  prepared  mush  is  required,  perhaps  nothing 
better  than  the  rolled  oats  can  be  employed,  these  requiring 
not  more  than  half  an  hour's  cooking,  as  they  are  already 
partially  cooked  in  their  manufacture ;  but  even  these  are 
improved  by  longer  cooking  in  a  double  boiler. 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  15 

It  is  very  important,  when  making  any  kind  of  mush, 
that  the  water  be  boiHng  rapidly,  and  kept  thus  while  stirring 
in  the  meal;  for  unless  the  grain  or  meal  is  thoroughly 
scalded  when  stirred  in,  not  even  prolonged  cooking  will 
take  away  the  raw  taste. 

)^      «*      «« 

OATMEAL    MUSH 

To  a  quart  of  boiling  water  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
sprinkle  in  a  cupful  of  oatmeal,  and  boil  rapidly 
for   about   ten    minutes,   or    until   it   sets,    stirring 
frequently  with  a  fork.     Then  place  over  the  hot 
water  in  the  lower  boiler  and  cook  from  one  to 
three    hours.      Just    before    serving,    remove    the 
cover   and   stir  lightly  with  a   fork  to  allow  the 
steam  to  escape.    This  makes  the  mush  more  dry.         q      , 
Serve   with  baked    apples,   cream,    fresh   fruit,   or       ji;i  " 
with    the    juice    from    stewed    fruit.      Oatmeal    is       measure 
richer    in   nitrogen    than    any    other    grain,    and    therefore   very 
nutritious.     But  to  be  wholesome  it  must  be  well  cooked,  and 
not  served  in  a  pasty,  undone  mass. 

ROLLED     OATS 

This  is  much  preferred  by  some,  as  it  requires  only  a  short 
time  to  cook.  Make  as  above,  only  using  two  cupfuls  of  the 
meal  to  one  quart  of  water.  An  ordinary  saucepan  does  very 
well  for  this,  but  the  double  boiler  is  better. 

ROLLED  OATS  AND  SAGO  MUSH 

Wash  and  soak  one-third  cup  of  sago  in  a  little  cold  water. 
Stir   one    and   one-half  cups    of  rolled   oats    into    one    quart    of 
salted,  boiling  water.     Cook  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  stir  in  the 
sago,  and  cook  as  much  longer.    Serve  with  cream,  stewed  fruit, . 
or  fruit  juice. 

GRAHAM    MUSH 

Into  three  pints  of  rapidly  boiling  water,  properly  salted,  stir 
dry,  one  heaping  pint  of  sifted  Graham  flour.  Cook  slowly  for 
one  hour  on  the  back  of  the  range,  stirring  but  little  after  the 
first  few  minutes.  Serve  with  milk  or  cream,  and  a  very  little 
sugar  if  desired. 

GRAHAM  MUSH  WITH  DATES 

Cook  as  above.  Take  a  cupful  of  dates,  cut  in  two,  removing 
the  stones,  and  stir  into  the  mush  just  before  taking  from  the 
fire.     Serve  with  milk  or  cream.     Steamed  raisins  or  stewed  figs 


16  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

may  be  used  instead  of  dates.     Serve  hot,  or  pour  out  into  cups 
or  moldSj  first  wet  with  cold  water,  and  serve  cold  with  cream. 

BOILED    RICE 

Wash  one  cup  of  rice,  and  put  to  cook  in  four  cups  of  boil- 
ing water,  slightly  salted.  Cook  quite  rapidly  for  the  first  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  a  little  occasionally  to  prevent  sticking  to  the 
pan.  Then  cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly  on  the  back  of  the 
range  without  stirring.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  cook  until  tender,  and  serve  with  milk,  cream,  or  stewed 
fruit.  If  the  rice  has  been  soaked  overnight,  put  to  cook  in  an 
equal  quantity  of  boiling  water,  or  equal  parts  of  milk  and 
water,  and  cook  for  about  half  an  Ifour. 

CREAM    OF   WHEAT 

To  four  parts  of  boiling  water  previously  salted,  add  one 
part  cream  of  wheat,  sprinkling  it  in  with  the  hand,  and  cook 
slowly  for  about  an  hour.     Serve  hot  with  cream  or  stewed  figs. 

CORN-MEAL    MUSH,    NO.    1 

Into  three  pints  of  boiling  water,  salted,  sprinkle  on'^  pint 
of  corn-meal.  Cook  slowly  for  an  hour,  stirring  occasionally. 
Serve  with  plenty  of  milk  or  cream.  Very  good  and  nutritious, 
especially  for  winter. 

CORN-MEAL    MUSH,    NO.    2 

Put  to  boil  one  quart  of  water,  adding  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Mix  smooth  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  two  cupfuls 
each  of  milk  and  co"n-nieal.  Stir  this  gradually  into  the  rapidly 
boiling  water;  boil  about  half  an  hour,  stirring  frequently. 
Serve  as  soon  as  done,  with  rich  milk. 

CORN-MEAL    SQUARES 

Take  cold,  left-over  corn-meal  mush,  cut  into  rather  thick 
slices,  and  then  into  inch  squares.  Put  the  squares  into  a 
tureen,  and  pour  over  them  some  hot  milk  or  cream.  Cover 
the  dish,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

BARLEY     MUSH 

To  each  cupful  of  pearl  barley,  previously  washed,  add  five 
:ups  of  boiling  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  for  three  or  four  hours.  Serve  with  cream,  lemon  sauce, 
or  stewed  fruit. 

BOILED     WHEAT 

To  one  pa-t  of  good,  plump  wheat  add  five  parts  of  cold 
water,  a  little  salt,  and  cook  slowly  from  four  to  six  hours,  or 
until  the  grains  burst  open  and  are  tender.  If  soaked  overnight, 
less  time  for  boiling  will  be  required.     Add  a  little  more  water 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  17 

while  cooking  if  necessary,  but  avoid  much  stirring.  Serve  hot 
or  cold  w^ith  milk,  cream,  fruit,  or  fruit  juice.  A  very  simple 
and  wholesome  dish. 

GLUTEN    MUSH 

Into  three  pints  of  rapidly  boiling,  salted  water  stir  one  pint 
of  gluten;  cook  in  a  double  boiler  for  several  hours. 

HOMINY 

Soak,  then  put  to  cook  in  enough  boiling  water  to  cover. 
Cook  gently  for  several  hours,  being  careful  not  to  stir  after  the 
grains  begin  to  soften.  Add  a  little  more  water  if  needed. 
Season  with  salt  when  done.  A  quantity  may  be  cooked  at  a 
time,  and  warmed  up  with  a  little  cream  or  butter  as  needed. 

CRACKED    WHEAT 

Cook  the  same  as  hominy  and  oatmeal,  using  three  parts  of 
boiling  water  to  one  of  cracked  wheat.  When  done,  turn  into 
cups  or  molds  first  wet  with  cold  water.  Nice  served  cold  with 
cream.     Seedless  raisins  may  be  cooked  with  it. 

GRANULATED     WHEAT 

Use  the  same  proportion  and  cook  the  same  as  cracked 
wheat.     Serve  warm  or  cold  with  good  sweet  cream. 

CORN-MEAL     CUTLETS 

Cut  cold  corn-meal  mush  into  slices  three  inches  long  and 
one  inch  wide;  roll  each  piece  in  beaten  egg,  slightly  salted, 
then  in  grated  bread  crumbs;  place  on  an  oiled  tin  in  the  oven 
till  nicely  browned.     Other  mushes  may  be  treated  likewise. 

BROWNED     RICE 

Place  a  small  quantity  on-  shallow  tins,  and  brown  in  the 
oven  till  a  golden  yellow,  stirring  frequently  so  that  it  may 
brown  evenly;  then  steam  for  about  an  hour  in  a  steamer  over 
boiling  water  or  in  a  steam  cooker,  allowing  two  parts  of  hot 
water  to  one  part  of  rice.  When  done,  it  should  be  quite  dry 
and  mealy.  It  may  be  eaten  dry,  or  served  with  brown  or  lentil 
sauce,  or  rich  milk  or  cream. 

BAKED    MUSH 

Cook  any  of  the  foregoing  mushes  as  directed,  and  as  soon 
as  done,  turn  into  a  pan,  crock,  or  a  round  tin  can,  first  wet 
with  cold  water,  or  oiled,  to  prevent  sticking.  If  brushed  over 
the  top  with  oil,  a  crust  will  not  form.  When  cold,  cut  into 
slices  from  one  half  to  three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  place  on 
oiled  tins,  and  bake  till  a  nice  brown.  A  quart  of  cooked  mush 
will  make  about  a  dozen  slices. 


"A  meal  —  what  is  it?    Just  enough  of  food 
To  renovate  and  well  refresh  the  frame, 
So  that  with  spirits  lightened,  and  with  strength  renewed, 
We  turn  with  willingness  to  work  again." 

The  appetite  is  subject  to  education;  therefore  learn  to  love 
that  which  you  know  to  be  good  and  wholesome. 

The  most  expensive  food  is  spoiled  when  served  up  burnt  or 
tasteless;  the  cheapest  may  be'  delicious  with  the  proper  season- 
ing.—  Lants. 

i^      ^      )^ 

^T*OAST  makes  a  very  nice  breakfast  dish,  and  is  easily 
L  and  quickly  prepared.  It  can  be  made  in  a  variety 
of  ways  which  are  both  simple  and  wholesome.  When 
properly  prepared,  it  furnishes  abundant  nourishment,  and 
is  easily  digested. 

The  proper  foundation  for  all  toasts  is  zwieback  (pro- 
nounced zwiback),  or  twice-baked  bread.  This  may  be  made 
from  either  fresh  or  stale  bread,  the  fresh  making  the  more 
crisp  and  delicious  for  dry  eating.  The  bread  should  be  light 
and  of  good  quality.  That  which  is  sour,  heavy,  and  unfit 
to  eat  untoasted,  should  never  be  used  for  toast. 

Toasts  afford  an  excellent  opportunity  for  using  up  left- 
over slices  of  bread,  and  its  use  is  therefore  a  matter  of 
economy  as  well  as  of  securing  variety  in  diet, 

^     )ii     ^ 

ZWIEBACK,    OR    DRY    TOAST 

Cut  fresh  or  stale  light  bread,  either  white  or  brown,  into 
slices   half  an  inch  thick,   place  on  tins,  and  bake  slowly  in  a 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  19 

moderate  oven  until  browned  evenly  throughout.  Care  should 
be  taken  not  to  scorch  the  bread.  It  should  not  be  put  into  an 
oven  that  is  merely  warm.  It  should  be  baked,  not  simply  dried. 
The  common  method  of  toasting  merely  the  outside  of  the 
bread  by  holding  it  over  a  fire  is  not  the  most  wholesome  way 
of  preparing  toast.  When  properly  made,  it  will  be  crisp 
throughout.  Zwieback  may  be  prepared  in  quantity  and  kept 
on  hand  for  use.  It  furnishes  a  good  article  of  diet,  especially 
for  dyspeptics,  eaten  dry,  or  with  milk  or  cream. 

MILK     TOAST 

Scald  one  cupful  of  milk  in  double  boiler,  then  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water;  stir  until 
it  thickens.  Cook  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  pour  it  over  six 
slices  of  zwieback,  previously  moistened  with  hot  water  or  milk. 

TOAST    WITH    CREAM    SAUCE 

Prepare  a  cream  sauce  as  directed  on  page  yj.  Moisten  five 
or  six  slices  of  zwieback  by  dipping  them  quickly  into  hot 
water  or  milk,  place  them  on  a  dish,  and  pour  over  the  hot 
cream  sauce. 

ASPARAGUS    TOAST 

Prepare  asparagus  by  washing  each  stalk  free  from  sand; 
remove  the  tough  portions,  cut  the  stalks  into  small  pieces,  and 
stew  in  a  little  hot,  salted  water;  drain  off  the  water  as  soon  as 
done,  add  a  cup  of  milk,  and  season  with  a  little  butter  and  salt. 
Cream  may  be  used  instead  of  the  milk  and  butter.  Moisten  the 
zwieback  with  hot  milk,  and  place  in  a  dish.  Pour  over  the 
stewed  asparagus,  and  serve  hot. 

BERRY    TOAST 

Prepare  zwieback  as  above.  Take  fresh  or  canned  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  mulberries,  or  other  fruit,  mash  well  with  a 
spoon,  add  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  serve  as  a  dressing  on  the 
slices   of  zwieback  previously  moistened. 

EGG    TOAST 

Moisten  slices  of  zwieback  in  hot  milk  or  cream,  season  with 
a  sprinkle  of  salt,  and  serve  hot  with  a  poached  egg  on  each 
slice.     For  poached  eggs  see  page  66. 

BANANA    TOAST 

Moisten  slices  of  zwieback  in  hot  milk.  Mash  the  bananas 
into  a  pulp,  or  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  place  some  on  each  slice 
of  toast. 


20  A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen 

FRUIT    TOAST 

Take  stewed  apricots,  peaches,  or  plums,  rub  through  a  col- 
ander, heat  to  boiling,  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch,  sweeten 
to  taste,  and  pour  over  the  moistened  zwieback. 

CREAM    TOAST 

Moisten  slices  of  zwieback  in  hot  water,  sprinkle  with  a  little 
salt,  and  dip  over  each  slice  a  spoonful  or  two  of  nice,  sweet, 
cold  cream. 

BUTTER    TOAST 

Place  each  slice  of  zwieback  on  a  small  plate,  pour  over  a 
little  hot  water,  and  quickly  drain  off;  add  a  sprinkle  of  salt,  if 
desired,  spread  lightly  with  butter  and  serve. 

CRUSHED    TOAST 

Take  fresh,  but  thoroughly  toasted  bread  or  crackers,  or  some 
of  each,  grind  closely  in  a  cofifee  or  hand  mill,  or  crush  with  a 
rolling-pin,  and  serve  in  small  dishes  with  milk,  cream,  or  fruit 
juice.  This  may  be  served  as  a  substitute  for  the  health  food 
known  as  granola.  Crushed  toast  is  also  a  very  serviceable 
article  for  use  in  soups  and  puddings. 

TOMATO     TOAST 

Moisten .  slices  of  zwieback  in  hot  milk,  and  serve  with  a 
dressing  prepared  by  heating  a  pint  of  strained,  stewed  tomatoes 
to  boiling,  and  thickening  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  corn- 
starch rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Season  with  salt 
and  a  little  cream  or  butter,  and  pour  over  the  toast. 

BEAN    PASTE 

Soak  one  cupful  of  white  beans  overnight  in  cold  water;  put 
to  cook  in  the  morning  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  to  a  pulp, 
and  till  the  water  is  quite  absorbed.  Rub  through  a  colander, 
then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  finely  minced  onion,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  powdered  sage,  one  saltspoonful  of  celery  salt,  the  juice 
of  one  lemon,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  tomato  juice,  if  at  hand, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Simmer  together  for  a  short  time,  then  use 
cold  to  spread  on  toast  or  bread  as  a  relish,  or  in  the  place  of 
butter,  or  for  making  sandwiches. 

Variety. —  Remember,  as  Home  Note  says,  that  "variety  of 
diet  is  important.  Ill  health  often  follows  a  monotonous  same- 
ness of  diet.  Oatmeal,  bread  and  butter,  and  marmalade,  are  all 
excellent  breakfast  dishes  of  their  kind,  but  when  given  every 
morning,  for  years  at  a  time,  they  become  positively  nauseating." 


A    VOICE    FROM    THE    CORN 

"  I  was  made  to  be  eaten,  not  to  be  drank, 
To  be  thrashed  in  a  barn,  not  soaked  in  a  tank; 
I  come  as  a  blessing  when  put  in  a  mill, 
As  a  blight  and  a  curse  when  run  through  a  still; 
Make  me  up  into  loaves,  and  your  children  are  fed; 
But  made  into  drink,  I  will  starve  them  instead. 
In  bread  I'm  a  servant,  the  eater  shall  rule. 
In  drink  I'm  a  master,  the  drinker  a  fool. 
Then  remember  my  warning;  my  strength  I'll  employ, — 
If  eaten,  to  strengthen,  if  drunk,  to  destroy." 

The  wandering  Arab  lives  almost  entirely  upon  bread,  with  a 
few  dates  as  a  relish. 

Behind  the  nutty  loaf  is  the  mill  wheel;  behind  the  mill  is 
the  wheat  field;  on  the  wheat  field  rests  the  sunlight;  above  the 
sun  is  God. —  James  Russell  Lowell. 

^      ^      ^ 

BREAD  stands  at  the  head  of  all  foods.  It  has  very 
properly  been  termed  "  the  staff  of  life." 

Why  this  is  so  is  because  wheat,  from  which  bread  is 
mostly  made,  contains  more  nearly  than  any  other  one 
article,  all  the  necessary  food  elements  required  to  sustain 
the  human  system,  and  these,  too,  in  proper  proportions, 
and  so  forms  most  nearly  a  perfect  food.  From  it  the 
brain,  bones,  muscles,  and  nerves,  all  receive  a  large  amount 
of  nourishment. 

This  being  so,  bread  should  enter  largely  into  the  daily 
bill  of  fare  of  every  family.  It  is  hardly  too  much  to  say 
that  no  meal  is  complete  without  it. 


22  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

Where  little  bread  is  used,  serious  defects  may  frequently 
be  observed.  For  instance,  in  some  of  the  islands  of  the 
Pacific  Ocean,  where  no  wheat  has  been  grown,  and  little 
could  be  obtained,  the  inhabitants  almost  universally  have 
poor  teeth.  The  early  decay  of  the  teeth  so  prevalent  among 
the  rising  generation  to-day,  may  generally  be  attributed  to 
four  causes :  ( i )  A  lack  of  sufficient  lime  in  the  water ; 
(2)  too  free  indulgence  in  sweets,  such  as  rich  cakes,  jams, 
and  candies;  (3)  too  large  an  amount  of  flesh  foods;  and 
(4)  an  insufficient  supply  of  good,  simple,  wholesome  bread, 
especially  whole  wheat  bread. 

Home-made  bread,  when  properly  prepared,  is  generally 
to  be  preferred  to  bakers'  bread.  Chemicals  and  adultera- 
tions, as  well  as  a  lack  of  cleanliness  and  proper  care  in 
preparation,  not  infrequently  characterize  the  latter,  and 
thus  give  rise  to  serious  stomach  disorders.  Moreover, 
bakers'  bread  is  not  always  obtainable,  and  is  always  nec- 
essarily more  expensive  than  that  which  is  home-made. 
The  baker  can  not  afford  to  work  for  nothing.  For  these 
reasons,  every  woman,  and  especially  every  wife  and  mother, 
ought  to  know  how  to  make  good  bread.  The  temptation 
to  patronize  the  bake  shop  should  not  outweigh  the  inter- 
ests of  the  health  of  the  family,  and  the  duty  to  practise 
economy. 

The  essentials  to  good  bread-making  are  three :  — 

1.  Good  flour. 

2.  Good  yeast. 

3.  Proper  attention. 

When  either  of  these  is  lackmg,  good  results  can  not 
be  obtained.  Poor  flour  will  not  produce  good  bread ;  good 
flour  and  poor  yeast  will  not  make  good  bread ;  and  good 
flour  and  good  yeast  with  improper  attention  will  not  insure 
good  bread.    All  three  are  essential. 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  23 

The  first  thing  to  consider  in  the  making  of  bread  is  the 
flour.  Good  flour  will  generally  be  found  to  have  a  creamy 
white  tint.  That  which  is  of  a  bluish  white  is  seldom  the 
best.  Good  flour  will  fall  light  and  elastic  from  the  hand. 
Flour  that  retains  the  imprint  of  the  fingers  when  squeezed, 
and  falls  in  a  damp,  clammy  mass,  should  be  avoided. 

The  second  essential  is  good  yeast.  One  may  have  ever 
so  good  flour  and  yet  make  poor  bread,  if  the  flour  is  used 
in  conjunction  with  poor  yeast.  Good  yeast  has  a  fresh, 
pungent  odor,  and  is  light  and  foamy ;  while  poor  yeast  has 
a  sour  odor,  and  a  dull,  watery  appearance. 

The  third  essential  is  proper  attention.  In  winter,  bread 
sponge  should  be  made  at  night  if  it  is  desired  to  have  the 
bread  baked  in  the  early  part  of  the  day.  The  flour  used  in 
making  the  sponge  should  first  be  warmed,  and  the  sponge 
covered  with  several  thicknesses  of  cloth,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  till  morning. 

In  hot  weather  set  the  sponge  early  in  the  morning,  and 
the  bread  can  be  baked  by  noon.  Both  the  sponge  and 
dough  are  best  kept  in  an  earthen  crock  or  jar,  as  they  are 
less  quickly  affected  by  drafts  of  air. 

As  soon  as  the  sponge  has  risen  to  be  light  and  puffy,  it 
should  receive  attention  immediately,  if  desired  to  have  the 
bread  white  and  sweet.  If  allowed  to  reach  the  point  of 
running  over,  or  falling  in  the  center,  it  has  stood  too  long. 
For  this  reason  sponge  set  at  night  should  be  mixed  late  in 
the  evening,  and  attended  to  as  early  in  the  morning  as 
possible. 

In  using  very  active  yeast,  it  will  not  be  necessary  to 
set  a  sponge.  Mix  the  ingredients  into  a  good  bread  dough 
at  the  first  mixing,  beating  the  batter  well  while  stirring  in 
the  flour.     The  more  thoroughly  the  batter  is  beaten,  the 


24  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

less  kneading  the  dough  will  require.     Set  the  bread  in  this 
way  in  the  morning,  and  it  can  be  baked  by  noon. 

A  few  mealy  potatoes,  cooked  and  mashed,  added  to  the 
sponge,  makes  the  bread  sweeter  and  keeps  it  fresh  longer. 
Milk  used  in  connection  with  yeast  should  first  be  scalded 
and  cooled  to  lukewarm. 

Too  much  flour  should  not  be  used  in  mixing,  as  it  will 
make  the  bread  hard  and  tough ;  but  enough  should  be  used 
to  make  the  dough  firm  and  elastic.  Turn  the  dough  out 
on  the  molding-board  and  knead  it,  not  with  the  tips  of  the 
fingers,  but  with  the  whole  hands,  from  the  sides  into  the 
center,  turning  frequently,  that  all  portions  may  be  thor- 
oughly worked.  When  the  dough  is  smooth  and  elastic, 
with  no  dry  flour  left  on  its  surface,  form  into  a  smooth  ball, 
and  place  back  in  the  crock,  which  should  be  washed  clean, 
dried  and  oiled,  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking.  Ob- 
serve how  full  it  makes  the  crock ;  cover  up  warmly,  and 
when  it  has  doubled  its  bulk,  form  gently  into  loaves, 
handling  the  dough  as  little  as  possible,  and  place  in  the 
pans  for  the  last  rising.  When  the  loaves  are  risen  to  twice 
their  size,  place  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  to  bake.  The 
oven  should  be  hot  when  the  bread  is  put  in.  By  no  means 
have  the  bread,  when  ready  to  bake,  wait  for  the  oven  to 
be  heated,  as  it  may  then  become  too  light,  run  over  in  the 
oven,  and  possibly  be  sour. 

When  nearly  ready  to  bake,  test  the  oven  by  putting  in 
it  a  piece  of  writing-paper ;  if  it  turns  dark  brown  in  six 
minutes,  the  oven  is  of  about  the  proper  heat.  If  bread 
bakes  too  fast,  a  crust  is  formed  on  the  outside  of  the  loaf 
which  prevents  the  inside  from  becoming  hot  enough  to 
dry  thoroughly,  and  the  result  is  that  the  inside  of  the 
loaf  is  too  moist,  while  the  outside  is  baked  hard.  Bread 
should  not  brown  much   under  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


25 


after  being  placed  in  the  oven.  If  it  rises  much  after  being 
put  in  the  oven,  the  heat  is  not  sufficient.  Bread  should  be 
turned  around  in  the  oven  if  it  does  not  rise  or  brown  evenly. 

Medium-sized  loaves  should  be  baked  from  fifty  to  sixty 
minutes ;  small  French  loaves  about  thirty-five  minutes. 
Bread  is  done  when  it  shrinks  from  the  pan,  and  can  be 
handled  without  burning  the  fingers. 

When  taken  from  the  oven,  the  loaves  should  be  turned 
out  of  the  pans,  placed  on  their  sides,  so  that  the  crust  will 
not  soften  by  the  steam,  and  covered  with  a  thin  cloth. 
When  cold,  keep  in  a  covered  stone  jar  or  a  tin  box,  which 
should  be  kept  free  from  crumbs  and  musty  pieces  of  bread, 
and  scalded  and  dried  thoroughly  every  few  days. 

As  to  their  healthfulness,  the  most  wholesome  breads 
are  unleavened  breads,  or  those  made  without  either  yeast, 
baking-powder,  soda,  or  cream  of  tartar,  such  as  gems, 
rolls,  and  crackers.  Next  come  those  made  with  good 
yeast ;  then  those  with  baking-powder,  if  comparatively 
pure ;  and  lastly  those  made  v/ith  soda  and  sour  milk,  or 
soda  and  cream  of  tartar.  Baking-powder  is  preferable  to 
soda.  The  latter  should  seldom  if  ever  be  used,  as  it  is  injuri- 
ous to  the  health,  being  an  active  dyspepsia-producing  article, 

WHITE    BREAD 

Scald  a  quart  of  new  or  unskimmed  milk, 
let  cool  to  lukewarm,  then  stir  in  a  dissolved 
yeast  cake,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  salt,  and  enough 
sifted  flour  to  make,  a  thin  batter.  Cover,  and 
set  aside  till  light,  then  work  in  flour  until  a 
dough  of  the  proper  consistency  for  bread  is 
formed.  Knead  until  it  is  smooth  and  elastic, 
and  does  not  stick  to  the  hands  or  board.  Place 
in  a  clean,  oiled  crock,  and  when  light,  form 
into  four  loaves;  let  rise  again  and  bake.  Equal 
parts  of  milk  and  water  may  be  used  if  desired. 

MOTHER'S    BREAD 

In  the  evening  boil  three  small  potatoes,  or  save  them  out 
when  cooking,  and  mash  them  with  a  fork  in  a  gallon  crock. 


26  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

Put  in  about  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of 
salt  and  sugar,  then  pour  in  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a 
good  batter.  Beat  until  smooth.  Soak  one  cake  of  compressed 
yeast  or  yeast  foam  in  one-half  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and 
when  the  batter  is  just  warm  stir  in  the  yeast  and  beat  until 
quite  foamy.  Set  in  a  warm  place  overnight.  The  first  thing 
in  the  morning  dip  about  two  quarts  of  flour  in  a  pan,  make  a 
cavity  in  the  center,  and  pour  in  the  sponge  and  about  a  pint  of 
warm  water.  Stir  all  together  into  a  thin  batter,  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  till  after  breakfast;  then  knead  until  it  does  not 
stick  to  the  board,  put  it  in  a  three-gallon  crock,  well  oiled  to 
prevent  the  dough  from  sticking;  cover  with  a  tin  lid  to  keep 
a  crust  from  forming  over  the  top,  then  with  several  thicknesses 
of  cloth,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  rises  up  full.  Then 
mold  into  loaves,  place  in  pans,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  an  hour,  or  until 
^^!llllllllllimillllll||llllllll|HllSife-  ^^^  loaves  shrink  from  the  sides  of  the  pans 
ikii^Il!!  IIIIIIIIIKIIII  iffi  iiw  ^"^  ^°  "°*  burn  the  fingers  when  removing 
^'•■'''■''' i  1/     ^'"°"^  ^^^  V>^ns.     Turn  the  bread  out  of  the 

^  ■■'■■"  •'"•""''"'""       '     pans,    and    cover   with   a   thin   cloth.      This 
Baking  Pan  will    make    six   loaves.      If    the    loaves    are 

brushed   over  with   cold  water   just  before 
being  placed  in  the  oven  the  crust  will  be  more  crisp. 

GRAHAM   BREAD,   NO.   1 

Take  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  liquid  yeast,  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  previously  scalded  and  cooled  to  lukewarm,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  two  cupfuls  of  white  flour;  beat  together 
thoroughly,  and  set  to  rise.  When  very  light,  add  three  heap- 
ing cupfuls  of  sifted  Graham  flour,  or  sufficient  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Knead  for  a  half-hour,  then  place  in  a  pan  slightly  but- 
tered, cover  warmly,  and  set  to  rise.  When  light,  form  into 
loaves,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 

GRAHAM    BREAD,   NO.   2 

Make  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread.  When  light,  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  ^gg,  one  tablespoonful  each  of 
sugar  and  melted  butter,  and  enough  sifted  Graham  flour'  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  lightly,  place  back  in  oiled  crock 
till  light,  then  make  into  loaves,  let  rise,  and  bake.  Graham 
bread  should  not  be  mixed  as  stiff  as  white  bread,  or  it  will  be 
too  solid.  Two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  may  be  used  for 
sweetening  instead  of  sugar,  if  preferred. 

GRAHAM    FRUIT    BREAD 

Make  the  same  as  Graham  bread,  and  when  ready  to  form 
into  loaves,  add  a  cupful  of  raisins  or  dried  currants,  washed 
and  dried,  and  dusted  with  flour. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  27 

WHOLE   WHEAT   BREAD 

Make  a  sponge  as  for  white  bread.  If  desired  a  light  color, 
use  one  fourth  white  flour  instead  of  all  whole  wheat  flour. 
Knead  well,  keeping  the  dough  soft,  then  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  light,  form  into  loaves,  let  rise  again,  and  bake. 
This  bread  rises  slower  than  white  bread. 

BOSTON    BROWN    BREAD 

Scald  one  pint  of  corn-meal  with  a  pint  of  boil- 
ing water;  let  cool  till  lukewarm,  then  stir  in  one 
dissolved  yeast  cTake,  or  one-half  cup  of  sweet,  lively- 
yeast,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  about  three  cupfuls  of  rye 
meal.  Beat  well,  put  in  oiled  pan,  steam  four  or 
Pint  five  hours,  then  place  in  the  oven  for  half  an  hour 

Measure       to  form  a  crust. 

PARKER    HOUSE     ROLLS 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  lukewarm  milk,  previously  scalded,  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  or  vegetable  oil,  one  well-beaten 
Q.gg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  one  cake 
of  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk;  mix  all  together,  then 
add  enough  flour  to  make  a  good  batter.  Let  rise  until  light, 
knead,  using  sufficient  flour;  let  rise  again  till  very  light,  roll 
out  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness,  cut  into  round  or  oval  shapes 
with  a  cutter,  fold  one  third  back  over  the  top,  and  place  in  a 
pan  to  rise.  When  very  light,  bake  in  arnoderate  oven.  Brush 
over  with  beaten  yolk  of  egg,  mixed  with  two  spoonfuls  of  cold 
water  just  before  taking  from  the  oven.  Braided  or  plaited  rolls 
may  be  made  by  cutting  the  rolled  ddugh  into  strips  six  inches 
long  and  one  inch  wide,  pinching  the  ends  of  each  three  strips 
together,  and  then  braiding. 

CORN-MEAL    BREAD 

Stir  one-half  cup  of  corn-meal  into  two  cupfuls  of  boiling 
water;  when  well  cooked,  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  two  cup- 
fuls of  cold  water;  stir  well  together;  then  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  one  cake  of  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  or  molasses,  and  enough  white  flour 
to  make  a  good  dough.  Knead  well,  and  set  to  rise;  when  light, 
form  into  three  loaves,  let  rise  again,  and  bake  for  nearly  an 
hour. 

SALT-RISING    BREAD 

Take  a  small  pitcher  and  put  into  it  a  half  pint  of  warm 
water,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  then  stir  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  medium-thick  batter.     Set  the  pitcher  in   a 


28  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

kettle  of  warm  water  to  rise.  It  should  be  kept  warm  all  the 
tirne,_  not  hot,  for  if  it  is  scalded,  it  will  never  rise.  When  light, 
stir  in  a  pint  of  warm  milk  or  water  and  enough  warm  flour 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Knead  it,  form  into  a  loaf,  place  in  the 
pan,  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake  as  soon  as  light. 

RAISED     BISCUITS 

Make  from  dough  prepared  for  white  bread.  When  the 
dough  is  ready  to  form  into  loaves,  divide  it  into  small,  equal 
portions,  shape  into  smooth,  round  biscuits,  place  closely  in  a 
shallow  baking  pan,  and  let  rise  till  considerably  lighter  than 
bread;  brush  lightly  with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

GEMS 
General  Directions 

Beating  in  an  abundance  of  cold  air  is  very  essential  in  the 
inaking  of  good  gems,  as  it  is  this  that  makes  them  light.  Cold 
air  is  preferable  to  warm  air,  as  it  ex- 
pands more  when  heating. 

Gems  are  also  better  when  baked  in 

iron  pans   than   in   tin,    as   the   iron   re-  _ 

tains    the    heat    better,    and    bakes    the  ^        . 

_  1         -PI       •  u      ij  Gem  Irons 

gems   more   evenly.      ihe   irons    should 

be  heated  and  oiled  before  the  batter  is  dropped  into  them. 

Having  the  oven  hot  from  the  first  is  also  essential,  as  a  crust 

will  then  be  formed  immediately,   and  the  air  which  has  been 

beaten   into  the  batter  will   thus   be   prevented    from   escaping. 

They  should  be  placed  in  the  oven  so  as  to  bake   on  the  top 

first,   and    afterward   on   the   bottom.     These   points    should   be 

carefully  observed.     Gems  are  best  served  hot.    They  should  be 

broken  open,  and  never  cut^  with  a  knife,  as   this  makes   them 

heavy. 

GRAHAM    GEMS,   NO.   1 

Place  the  gem  irons  in  the  oven  or  on  the  range  to  heat. 
Mix  salted  Graham  flour  with  cold  milk  or  water  to  a  batter 
thick  enough  to  drop,  beating  vigorously  for  ten  minutes  to 
beat  in  the  air.  Butter  the  gem  irons,  and  fill  each  cup  nearly 
full  of  the  batter.    Put  in  a  hot  oven,  and  bake  until  done. 

.   GRAHAM    GEMS,    NO.    2 

Beat  separately  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg.  Add  to  the 
beaten  yolk  two  cupfuls  of  sweet,  rich  milk,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  stir  well  together;  then  sift  in  one  and  one-half 
cups  of  Graham  flour,  and  a  scant  cup  of  white  flour,  beating 
vigorously  meanwhile.  Continue  to  beat  until  the  mixture  is 
light  and  foamy  throughout,  and  full  of  air  bubbles;  then  stir 
in  gently  the   stiffly  beaten  white  of  the   egg.     Have   the   gem 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  29 

irons  thoroughly  heated,  slightly  butter  them,  drop  in  the  batter 
with  a  spoon,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

OATMEAL  GEMS 

• 
Beat  separately  the  yolk  and  white  of  an  egg.  To  the  beaten 
yolk  add  a  cupful  of  well-cooked  oatmeal  mush,  and  a  half  cup 
of  milk  or  thin  cream.  Beat  together  thoroughly.  Continue  to 
beat  while  adding  a  cupful  of  white  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt, 
then  fold  in  lightly  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  the  tgg.  Have 
the  gem  irons  heated  hot,  slightly  butter,  drop  in  the  batter, 
filling  the  little  cups  nearly  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
a  light  brown. 

CORN-MEAL    GEMS 

Stir  well  together  one  and  one-half  cupfuls  of  milk,  and  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  previously  beaten.  To  this  add  two  cupfuls 
of  corn-meal,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  cupful  of 
white  flour.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  lightly  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  previously  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake  as  above. 

GRANULATED    WHEAT     GEMS 

Mix  together  one  cupful  each  of  cold  water  and  milk,  and 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Then  add  gradually  two  and  one- 
half  cupfuls  of  fine  granulated  wheat,  beating  continuously. 
Beat  vigorously  for  ten  minutes,  then  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
thoroughly  heated,  buttered  gem  irons,  beating  the  batter 
briskly  several  times  while  dipping  it  in.  Bake  at  once  in  a 
very  hot  oven. 

RICE    CAKES 

Moisten  one  cup  of  well-cooked  rice  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  cream  or  rich  milk;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  mix 
in  enough  flour  to  make  it  hold  together.  Form  into  cakes  one- 
third  of  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done, 
split  open,  and  serve  with  maple  or  lemon  sirup.  To  make 
lemon  sirup,  see  page  40. 

BREAKFAST     ROLLS 

To  three  slightly  heaping  cups  of  sifted  Graham  flour  add  a 
little  salt,  and  one  cup  of  milk  or  thin  cream;  cream  is  better. 
Stir  the  milk  or  cream  into  the*  flour,  mixing  it  well  with  the 
flour  as  fast  as  poured  in.  Knead  thoroughly,  then  divide  the 
dough  into  three  portions,  and  with  the  hands  roll  each  portion 
over  and  over  on  the  molding-board  until  a  long  roll  from  an 
inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  in  thickness  is  formed.  Cut  into  two- 
or  three-inch  lengths,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  hot  oven,  in  a 
baking  pan  dusted  with  flour,  or  better,  on  a  perforated  piece 
of   sheet-iron   made   for   the   purpose,  placing   the    rolls   a   little 


30  A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen 

distance  apart.     Bake  until  a  light  brown.     When  done,  do  not 
place  one  on  top  of  another. 

Flour  kneaded  into  cold  Graham  flour,  oatmeal,  or  corn-meal 
mush  makes  very  good  breakfast  rolls. 

STICKS 

Make  the  same  as  breakfast  rolls,  only  rolling  the  dough  to 
about  the  size  of  the  little  finger,  and  cutting  into  three-  or 
four-inch  lengths. 

FRENCH     ROLLS 

Make  a  sponge  at  night  of  one-half  cake  of  dry  or  one-half 
cup  of  good  liquid  yeast,  the  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a 
little  salt,  and  three  cups  of  warm  milk  or  water,  and  flour 
sufficient  to  make  a  soft  dough.  In  the  morning  knead  well 
and  let  rise  again.  When  light,  roll  out  the  dough  to  about 
three  fourths  of  an  inch  in  thickness;  cut  into  about  four-inch 
squares  with  a  sharp  knife,  butter  the  edges,  and  roll  each 
corner  up  and  over  to  the  center;  place  on  buttered  tins,  allow 
the  rolls  to  become  very  light,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven.  The  sponge  for  this  can  be  set  in  the  "morning  if  the 
yeast  is  very  quick. 

TO    GLAZE    ROLLS 

When  ready  to  bake,  brush  the  rolls  or  biscuit  lightly  -with 
milk;  or,  when  nearly  baked,  brush  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  to 
which  has  been  added  two  spoonfuls  of  cold  water  and  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.     Return  to  oven  till  done. 

MARYLAND     OR     BEATEN     BISCUIT 

Mix  five  cupfuls  of  white  flour,  one-half  cupful  of  vegetable 
oil  or  butter,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  very  stifle  dough 
v/ith  one  cupful  of  cold  water.  Knead  for  twenty  minutes,  using 
no  more  flour  for  the  molding-board;  then  beat  hard  with  a 
wooden  mallet  or  hammer  for  twenty  minutes  longer,  until  the 
dough  is  flat  and  of  even  thickness  throughout;  sprinkle  over  a 
little  flour,  fold  half  of  the  dough  back  evenly  over  the  other 
half,  and  beat  quickly  around  the  edges,  to  keep  in  the  air. 
Continue  beating  until  the  dough  is  brittle,  and  will  snap  if  a 
piece  is  broken  off  quickly.  Pinch  off  into  pieces  the  size  of  a 
small  walnut,  work  smooth,  flatten  on  top  with  the  thumb, 
prick  with  a  fork,  place  on  perforated  tins  a  little  distance  apart, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  nearly  an  hour,  or  until  dry 
and  brittle  throughout. 

WHOLE    WHEAT    CRISPS 

Take  one  cupful  of  rich  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  two  cupfuls,  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  31 

of  fine  granulated,  whole  wheat  flour.  Beat  well^  and  knead  for 
fifteen  minutes,  first  with  a  spoon,  until  the  batter  becomes  too 
thick,  and  then  with  the  hands.  Roll  out  as  thin  as  wafers,  cut 
into  shapes  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  on  floured  tins  in  a 
very  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  WAFERS 

Stir  together  one  cupful  each  of  sifted  Graham 
flour  and  white  flour,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  but- 
ter and  sugar,  and  a  saltspoonful  of  salt;  then  mix 
with  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
Cake  out  very  thin,  cut  into  small  squares,  or  with  a  cake 
Cutter       cutter,  and  bake  on  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 

FRUIT  BISCUIT 

Make  a  dough  with  one  cupful  of  cold,  sweet  cream  or  rich 
milk,  three  cupfuls  of  sifted  Graham  or  white  flour,  and  a  little 
salt.  Knead  thoroughly,  and  divide  into  two  portions.  Roll 
each  quite  thin,  then  spread  one  with  currants,  stoned  dates, 
figs,  or  seedless  raisins,  chopped  fine,  and  place  the  other  one 
on  top;  press  down  with  the  rolling-pin,  cut  into  oblong  squares 
with  a  knife,  and  bake. 

CRESCENTS 

Make  a  dough,  using  the  recipe  for  White  Bread.  When 
ready  to  form  into  loaves,  work  into  it  two  tablespoonfuls  each 
of  butter  and  sugar;  roll  out  into  a  sheet  half  an  inch  thick, 
cut  into  six-inch  squares,  then  divide  diagonally,  forming  tri- 
angles; brush  each  lightly  with  water,  and  roll  up,  beginning 
at  the  longest  side;  place  on  oiled  pans,  turning  the  ends  toward 
each  other  in  the  form  of  a  crescent.  When  very  light,  brush 
with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 

RUSKS 

Make  a  sponge  at  night  with  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful 
of  scalded  milk,  cooled  to  lukewarm,  one-half  cupful  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  cake  of  dry  or  one-half  cup  of  good  liquid  yeast, 
and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  In  the  morning  knead  well,  and  when  risen  again, 
mold  into  the  form  of  biscuits,  place  a  little  distance  apart  on 
buttered  tins,  and  brush  over  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg 
sweetened;  let  stand  until  light,  and  bake. 

PLAIN   BUNS 

Beat  together  one-fourth  cup  of  lively  yeast,  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  previously  scalded  and  cooled  to  lukewarm,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  cups  of  warm  flour,  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  very  light,  work  into  the  dough 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.     Knead 


32  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

well  for  ten  minutes,  using  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Shape  into  the  form  of  biscuits  a  little  larger  than  an  egg;  place 
on  tins  slightly  buttered,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  very  light,  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  The  tops 
may  be  brushed  over  with  the  sweetened  beaten  white  of  an 
egg  while  baking,  or  sprinkled  with  moist  sugar  when  taken 
from  the  oven. 

FRUIT     BUNS 

Make  the  same  as  plain  buns,  adding  one-half  cup  of  raisins 
or  currants  just  before  kneading  and  forming  into  buns.    . 

RICE    WAFFLES 

Set  a  sponge  at  night  with  two  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk,  scalded 
and  cooled  to  lukewarm,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  pinch  ol 
salt,  two-thirds  of  a  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  three 
cupjFuls  of  flour,  and  one-fourth  cup  of  liquid 
yeast.  Beat  the  batter  hard  for  five  or  six  min- 
utes, and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  In  the 
morning  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  and  stir 
well  together.  Bake  on  a  hot,  buttered  waffle 
iron.  If  this  is  not  at  hand,  have  the  gem  irons 
well  heated,  slightly  butter  to  prevent  sticking, 
and  drop  in  the  batter.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  so 
the  top  will  bake  first,  and  bake  to  a  rich 
Waffle   Iron         brown   color.     Very  nice   for   breakfast. 

PUFFS 

To  two  cups  of  milk  add  a  little  salt  and  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs  well  beaten;  then  sift  in,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beating 
meanwhile,  three  small  cups  of  flour.  Beat  until  light,  then  stir 
in  gently  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  in  hot 
gem    irons. 

FRUIT   LOAF,   NO.    1 

Take  enough  good  bread  dough  for  one  loaf,  add  one  cupful 
of  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  one  cupful  of 
raisins,  previously  washed  and  dried.  Knead  well  and  let  rise; 
then  knead  again,  and  place  in  a  bread  pan,  let  rise  until  light, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FRUIT    LOAF,    NO.    2 

Make  a  sponge  of  one  and  one-half  cups  of  warm  milk  or 
water,  one-half  cup  of  good  yeast,  the  beaten  white  of  one  ^g,E., 
one  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and 
flour  sufficient  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise  till  light;  then 
knead  well  and  let  rise  again.  When  light,  roll  out  to  about 
one  inch  in  thickness,  spread  over  with  chopped  dates,  or  rai- 
sins, or  currants  which  have  been  previously  washed  and  dried; 
roll  up  and  form  into  a  loaf,  let  rise,  and  bake. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  33 

COFFEE    CAKES 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  bread  dough  (made  with  milk)  when 
ready  for  the  pans;  put  into  a  deep  dish  and  work  in  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cocoanut  or  vegetable  oil  or  butter,  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  one  egg,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  fairly  stiff  dough.  Knead  well,  and 
roll  out  into  a  long  strip  about  nine  inches  in  width,  three  feet 
in  length,  and  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick;  spread  over  this 
four  or  five  tablespoonfuls  of  oil  or  melted  butter,  omitting 
about  two  inches  at  the  farther  end;  beginning  at  end  nearest, 
roll  up  like  jelly  roll;  cut  into  slices  an  inch  thick;  place  a 
little  distance  apart  on  tins  sprinkled  with  sugar;  set  in  a  warm 
place,  and  when  very  light,  brush  over  with  oil;  sprinkle  with 
a  little  sugar,  and  bake.  If  desired,  ground  cinnamon  or  grated 
nutmeg  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  dough  before  rolling  it  up. 

FLANNEL     CAKES 

Keat  three  cupfuls  of  milk  to  boiling;  put  into  a  crock  one 
cupful  of  corn-meal  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  then  pour 
in  the  scalding  milk;  beat  well,  allow  to  cool  to  lukewarm,  then 
stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  two  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  one-half  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one-third  cup  warm 
water;  beat  well,  and  set  to  rise  overnight.  Bake  on  a  hot 
griddle. 

CORN-MEAL     BATTER     CAKES 

To  two  cups  of  cold  corn-meal  mush,  add  one  cup  of  sifted 
flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  beat  well  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  to 
which  add  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  and  stir 
into  the  mush;  beat  thoroughly  until  light 
and  smooth,  adding  a  little  more  milk  if  nec- 
essary, to  make  the  batter  of  proper  consist- 
ency. Then  gently  stir  in  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  bake  in  small  Griddle 

cakes  on  both  sides  on  a  griddle,  slightly  but- 
tered, or  better  still  on  a  soapstone  griddle,  in  which  case  use 
•no  oil  nor  butter  on  it.     Serve  hot. 

BUCKWHEAT    PANCAKES 

In  the  evening  take  two  quarts  of  warm  water,  add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  good  yeast,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  buckwheat 
flour  enough  to  make  a  good  batter.  If  desired,  a  cupful  of 
corn-meal  or  a  few  spoonfuls  of  white  flour  may  be  us«d  instead 
of  all  buckwheat.  Beat  well  and  set  to  rise.  In  the  morning 
thin  the  batter  with  a  little  warm  water,  if  necessary,  and  bake 
on  a  hot  griddle.  If  cakes  are  desired  for  several  mornings,  the 
batter  may  be  kept  going  by  leaving  at  least  a  cupful  after  each 
baking,  and  adding  the  necessary  warm  water  and  buckwheat 
flour  each  evening  as  at  first. 


34  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

LENTIL    FRITTERS 

To  a  pint  of  lentil  soup  (left-over  soup  will  do),  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  sift  in  enough  flour,  a  little 
at  a  time,  beating  thoroughly,  to  make  a  good  batter.  Then 
add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  drop  by  spoonfuls  on 
a  hot  buttered  griddle,  and  brown  on  both  sides. 

CORN    FRITTERS 

To  each  quart  of  raw  sweet  corn  (a  dozen  nice  ears),  grated 
from  the  cob,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  and  one  and  one-half  cups  of  fine  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  or  enough  to  make  a  batter  just  stifif  enough  to  drop 
from  a  spoon.  Then  stir  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  drop  with  a  spoon  on  a  hot,  oiled,  or  soapstone  griddle. 
Serve   hot. 

USES     FOR    STALE    BREAD 

Whole  slices  of  stale  bread,  if  in  good  condition,  may  be 
steamed  or  used  for  toast.  Crumbs,  crusts,  and  broken  pieces 
not  suitable  for  this  purpose  may  be  placed  in  a  pan,  and  put 
into  a  slow  oven  until  thoroughly  dried  (not  browned),  then 
ground  in  a  mill,  or  rolled  on  a  breadboard  with  the  rolling- 
pin,  and  put  away  in  covered  jars  for  use.  This  will  be  useful 
for  making  corn-meal  cutlets  or  anything  that  is  to  be  rolled 
in  crumbs,  dipped  in  egg,  and  browned. 

POTATO    YEAST 

Put  to  cook  six  medium-sized  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of  hot 
water.  Tie  a  handful  of  hops  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  with  the  pota- 
toes during  the  last  ten  minutes.  When  done,  take  potatoes  and 
hops  from  the  water,  leaving  the  water  over  the  fire.  Mash  the 
potatoes  fine,  and  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  two  each 
of  sugar  and  salt  Stir  well  together.  Pour  over  this  mixture 
the  boiling  potato  water,  stirring  well  that  no  lumps  be  formed. 
When  cooled  to  lukewarm,  stir  in  a  cupful  of  liquid  yeast,  or 
one  cake  of  dry  yeast  dissolved  in  warm  water.  After  fermen- 
tation has  ceased,  turn  into  an  earthen  jar  previously  scalded, 
cover,  and  set  in  a  cool,  dark  place.     Shake  before  using. 

HOP   YEAST 

Steep  a  handful  of  hops  in  a  quart  of  hot  water  for  five  min- 
utes. Then  strain,  and  turn  the  boiling  water  over  a  cupful 
of  flour,  blended  with  a  little  cold  water.  Add  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  two  of  sugar;  let  cool  till  lukewarm,  then  stir 
in  a  half  cup  of  liquid  yeast,  or  one  cake  of  dry  or  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Set  aside  for  twenty- 
four  hours,  stirring  occasionally;  then  bottle  and  keep  as  above. 


The  earth  to  thee  her  increase 
yields, 

The  trees  their  fruitage  bring: 

And  glittering  in  the  suniit 
fields. 

The  vines  with  bounty  spring. 

"  Every  tree,  in  the  which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding 
seed;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat."     Gen.  i :  29. 

If  families  could  be  induced  to  substitute  the  apple  —  sound, 
ripe,  and  luscious  —  for  pies,  cakes,  candies,  and  other  sweet- 
meats with  which  children  are  too  often  stuffed,  there  would 
be  a  diminution  of  doctor's  bills,  sufficient  in  a  single  year  to 
lay  in  a  stock  of  this  delicious  fruit  for  a  season's  use. —  Pro- 
fessor Faraday. 

There  is  much  false  economy;  those  who  are  too  poor  to 
have  seasonable  fruits  and  vegetables,  will  yet  have  pie  and 
pickles  all  the  year.  They  can  not  afford  oranges,  yet  can  afford 
tea  and  coffee  daily. —  Health  Calendar. 

)^      Jg      )g 

FRUITS  are  a  natural  food.  They  form  no  inconsider- 
able part  of  those  products  of  the  earth  given  by  the 
Creator  to  our  first  parents  as  food.  "  Behold,  I  have 
given  you,"  he  says,  "  every  herb  bearing  seed,  which  is 
upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  and  every  tree,  in  the  which 
is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding  seed ;  to  you  it  shall  be  for 
meat."     Gen.  i  :  29. 

Fruits  are  not  only  delightful  to  the  eye,  pleasing  to 
the  smell,  and  satisfying  to  the  taste,  but  they  contain 
elements  which  are  necessary  for  the  best  maintenance  of 
the  system  ;  hence  the  natural  craving  for  them  when  the 
system  is  in  a  normal  condition. 

35 


36 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


While  not  containing-  a  large  amount  of  nutrition  com- 
pared to  their  size,  they  are,  nevertheless,  valuable  on 
account  of  their  juices,  and  also  because  of  their  giving  bulk 
to  our  food, —  a  very  necessary  thing  to  be  considered. 

Containing  as  they  do  from  seventy-five  to  ninety  per 
cent  of  water,  their  use  naturally  allays  thirst.  If  their 
use  were  more  general,  there  would  doubtless  be  less  desire 
for  unnatural  drinks. 

As  a  rule  fruits,  especially  acid  and  sub-acid  fruits,  are 
cooling  to  the  blood,  and  most  kinds  also  act  as  a  laxative 
to  the  system,  tending  to  keep  it  free  and  open.  They 
should,  therefore,  be  freely  used  in  the  daily  bill  of  fare, 
though  in  proper  combinations.  Fruits  go  well  with  grains 
and  milk,  but  not  so  well  with  vegetables,  especially  acid 
fruits. 

And  what  gives  a  nicer  appearance  to  the  table  than  a 
dish  of  fruit!     The  very  sight  is  inviting  and  appetizing. 

In  preparing  fresh  fruit  for 
the  table,  care  should  be  taken 
to  select  only  that  which  is 
sound  and  ripe.  It  should 
also  be  carefully  cleaned. 
Apples  should  be  wiped  with 
a  damp  cloth,  and  their 
beauty  will  be  further  en- 
hanced by  polishing  them 
with  a  dry  one.  Plums  should 
be  likewise  treated.  Grapes 
Fruit  Dish  should    be    washed,    and    the 

stem  ends  of  bananas  cut  off.  Bananas  may  also  be  peeled, 
sliced,  and  served  with  cream.  Oranges  may  be  placed  on 
the  table  whole,  or  their  skins  cut  into  eighths,  and  peeled 
half-way  down.  In  serving  cherries  in  their  natural  state, 
the  stems  should  be  left  on. 


A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen  2>7 

Much  taste  may  be  displayed  in  the  arrangement  of 
fresh  fruits  for  the  table.  A  few  green  leaves  interspersed 
with  the  fruit,  or  a  variety  of  fruits  tastily  arranged  on 
the  same  dish,  make  a  very  attractive  appearance. 

Nature  sets  before  us  an  abundance  of  delicious  fruits, 
and  these  in  almost  endless  varieties  and  flavors. 

Most  fruits  are  both  wholesome  and  agreeable  when 
eaten  raw,  but  many  are  rendered  more  easy  of  digestion 
by  cooking.  Some  persons  with  weak  digestion  can  not 
eat  many  kinds  of  raw  fruits,  but  almost  every  one  can  eat 
most  kinds  when  cooked. 

The  following  are  some  of  the  most  simple  and  prac- 
tical ways  in  which  fruits  may  be  prepared :  — 

)^      Jg      «? 

BAKED   APPLES,   NO.    1 

Apples  to  be  baked  may  be  cored  and  pared  or  baked  with 
the  skins  on.  If  firm  and  quite  tart,  pare,  place  in  a  pie  dish, 
add  sugar  and  a  little  hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
If  the  apples  are  juicy,  less  water  will  be  required.  When 
tender,  turn  into  a  dish,  and  pour  over  them  the  sirup  or  juice. 

BAKED    APPLES,   NO.   2 

Pare  and  core  without  halving,  a  number  of  nice,  tart  apples; 
fill  the  centers  with  sugar  and  jelly,  lay  closely  in  a  shallow 
pan,  add  a  little  water,  and  bake  slowly,  basting  occasionally 
with  the  sirup  to  keep  the  centers  well  filled.  Bake  till  brown 
and  tender,  and  serve  with  a  boiled  custard  made  with  two  cups 
of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  and  vanilla  to 
flavor. 

STEWED     APPLES 

Pare,  core,  and  cut  into  small  pieces  some  moderately  tart 
apples,  place  in  a  saucepan,  and  add  sufficient  boiling  water  to 
stew  to  a  pulp;  cook  slowly  for  about  an  hour,  stirring  but 
little.     When  cool,  add  sugar  to  sweeten. 

BAKED     SWEET    APPLES 

Select  good,  sweet  apples.  Wash,  but  do  not  pare  or  core 
them;  put  into  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.     Baste  occasionally  with  the  juice  in  the  bottom   of 


38  '  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

the  pan.  When  done,  if  desired,  each  apple  may  be  dipped 
in  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  then  in  powdered  sugar,  and 
returned  to  the  oven  until  the  icing  is  set.  Plain  sweet  baked 
apples  are  very  nice   served  with  cream. 

APPLE     SCALLOP 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  a  half  dozen  good  cooking  apples. 
Spread  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  pudding  dish,  then  over 
these  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  mixed  with  a  little  sugar,  thus 
alternating  till  the  dish  is  filled,  having  a  layer  of  apples  on 
top.  Add  a  half  cup  of  cold  water,  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick 
oven  till  done.     Serve  with  rich  milk  or  cream. 

BOILED    APPLES 

Remove  the  cores  and  cook  whole,  or  in  halves,  in  enough 
boiling  water  to  cover  them.  Cook  slowly.  When  tender,  re- 
move the  apples  to  a  dish  with  a  spoon  or  fork.  Sweeten  the 
juice  with  sugar,  add  a  little  lemon  extract,  thicken  slightly 
with  a  very  little  cornstarch  blended  with  a  little  cold  water, 
and  pour  over  the  apples.     Serve  when  cool. 

BAKED    PEARS 

Take  good,  sound  pears,  cut  in  halves,  pare,  and  fill  an  enam- 
eled pudding  dish,  sprinkling  sugar  through  them;  pour  in  a 
cupful  of  hot  water,  cover  tightly,  and  bake  slowly  till  tender. 
Serve  cold.  Or  wash,  wipe,  and  bake  whole  in  a  shallow  dish, 
putting  in  a  very  little  water. 

STEWED   PEARS 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  nice  ripe  pears,  and  drop  into  cold 
water  to  keep  from  discoloring.  Make  a  sirup,  allowing  two 
cups  of  water  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit. 
Boil  the  sirup  for  a  few  minutes,  put  in  the  fruit,  and  cook 
until  tender  and  pink  in  color,  being  careful  not  to  b"eak  the 
f  uit  by  stirring.  Three  or  four  slices  of  lemon  added  to  the 
sirup  while  boiling  will  improve  the  flavor  of  the,  pears.  Re- 
move the  lemon  before  putting  in  the  fruit. 

BAKED     QUINCES 

Pare,  core,  and  bake  the  same  as  apples.  The  fruit  may  be 
left  whole,  and  the  centers  filled  with  sugar.  Sufficient  water 
should  be  used  so  the  fruit  will  not  become  dry.  Baste  with 
the  sirup  while  baking. 

BAKED    PEACHES,    NO.    1 

Take  good,  firm  peaches,  pa'-e,  cut  in  halves,  removing  the 
stones,  and  place  in  a  deep  pudding  dish,  sprinkling  with  sugar. 
Add  a  little  water,  and  bake  until  tender. 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  39 

BAKED    PEACHES,    NO.   2 

Bake  as  above;  when  done,  cover  the  top  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  two  or  three  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  a  little 
powdered  sugar;  return  to  the  oven  and  brown  slightly.  Serve 
cold  with  cream. 

STEWED     PEACHES 

Take  ripe  peaches,  pare,  or  wipe  carefully  with  a  damp  cloth; 
cut  in  halves,  remove  the  stones,  and  drop  into  cold  water. 
When  ready,  place  the  fruit  in  a  saucepan,  adding  sufficient 
boiling  water  to  keep  from  burning.  Add  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  to  each  quart  of  fruit.  Cook  slowly  until  tender, 
generally  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

STEWED     PRUNES 

Wash  the  prunes  thoroughly  in  warm  water,  rinse,  then  add 
water  to  cover,  or  about  three  parts  water  to  one  of  prunes, 
and  soak  for  several  hours,  or  overnight.  Put  them  to  cook  in 
the  same  water  in  which  they  soaked,  and  stew  gently  until  • 
tender.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  little  sugar  if  desired.  Serve 
cold. 

STEWED    FRUITS 

Small  fruits  are  better  stewed  in  a  double  enamel  saucepan, 
and  the  larger  kind  baked  in  a  tightly  covered  earthen  crock 
or  jar  in  the  oven,  with  as  little  water  as  possible.  Dried  fruit, 
such  as  figs,  prunes,  peaches,  raisins,  dates,  etc.,  should  first  be 
well  washed,  rinsed,  soaked  for  several  hours  in  enough  water 
to  cover,  and  afterward  cooked  in  the  same  water  in  which  they 
have  soaked. 

PINEAPPLE 

Pare,  cut  into  thin  slices  into  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  lightly 
with  sugar;  let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  an  hour,  and  serve. 

FRUIT    MOLD 

Stew  a  quart  of  berries  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  for  fif- 
teen or  twenty  minutes;  then  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water;  cook 
until  thickened,  then  turn  into  molds  first  wet  with  cold  water; 
serve  cold  with  milk  or  cream.  Heat  fruit  juices  and  treat 
similarly. 

BANANAS     WITH     WHIPPED     CREAM 

Remove  the  peel,  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  sprinkle  with  a 
very  little  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  orange  juice.  Serve  in 
small  dishes,  placing  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each 


40  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

dish.     If  bananas  are  slightly  scraped  after  removing  the  skins, 
they  will  be  more  readily  digested. 

APPLE    BUTTER 

Pare,     quarter,     and     core     about 

equal  parts  of  sweet  and  tart  apples. 

Boil    sweet    cider    down,    about    four 

gallons    into    one    gallon.      Cook    the 

Large  Spoon  apples  in  either  sweet  cider  or  water 

till   soft,   then    add   the    boiled    cider, 

and  boil  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon 

until  thick.     A  little  butter  and  ground  cinnamon  may  be  added 

for  flavoring,  and  sugar  if  necessary.     Can  in  jars,  or  set  away 

in  jars  without  canning  if  desired  for  immediate  use. 

LEMON   SIRUP 

Boil  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one-fourth  cupful  of  water 
until  it  slightly  thickens;  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  butter  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice.     Serve  hot. 

LEMON   HONEY 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  to  warm; 
then  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two 
lemons,  and  two  eggs  well  beaten;  cook  until  thickened,  stir- 
ring constantly  that  no  lumps  be  formed,  and,  if  not  cooked 
in  a  double  boiler,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  When  done, 
turn  into  cups  and  cover  the  same  as  jelly.  Nice  used  as 
a  filling  for  layer  cake. 

PLUM    MARMALADE 

Wash  the  plums,  cut  them  in  halves,  removing  the  stones, 
and  cook  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  allowing  a  scant  cup  of 
water  to  each  quart  of  fruit.  Then  rub  through  a  colander,  add 
one  cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  pulp,  and  boil  slowly  one 
hour,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning. 

GRAPE     MARMALADE 

Make  the  same  as  plum  marmalade,  only  allowing  half  a  cup 
of  water  to  a  quart  of  fruit  for  cooking. 

TO     MAKE    FRUIT    JELLY 

Choose  a  bright,  sunny  day  for  making  jelly,  in  order  to 
have  it  as  firm  and  clear  as  possible.  Make  in  small  quantities 
at  a  time,  using  only  porcelain  or  graniteware  in  preparing  fruit 
or  juice.  Small  fruits  should  be  used  as  soon  after  being 
picked  as  possible,  and  should  not  be  overripe.  Cherries  should 
be  mixed  with  one  fourth  their  quantity  of  currants,  as  they  do 
not  jelly  easily.    Two  parts  red  raspberry  with  one  part  currant 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  41 

juice  makes  a  nice-flavored  jelly.  Place  the  fruit  desired  for 
the  jelly  in  the  saucepan,  add  only  enough  water  to  keep  from 
burning,  and  cook  until  tender  or  well  scalded;  then  drain 
through  a  strong,  coarse,  white  flannel  or  cotton  bag  first 
wrung  out  of  hot  water.  If  the  bag  is  made  three-cornered, 
the  weight  of  the  fruit  at  the  large  top  presses  the  juice  out 
more  freely  at  the  point.  Heat  the  sugar  in  the  oven,  stirring 
frequently  to  prevent  burning.  About  three  fourths  of  a  pound 
should  be  used  to  each  pint  of  juice.  To  prevent  the  jelly 
glasses  from  breaking,  place  them  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  and 
allow  it  to  come  nearly  to  boiling;  or  with  a  cloth  rub  the 
outside  of  them  well  with  a  little  butter  or  oil,  and  pour  in 
the  juice  slowly.  A  little  paraffin  poured  over  the  jelly  when 
cooled,  or  writing-paper  cut  to  fit  the  glasses,  and  oiled,  is  good 
for  covering  before  putting  on  the  covers. 

APPLE    JELLY 

Select  nice  tart,  red  apples,  wash,  quarter,  and  core,  but  do 
not  pare;  add  a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  boil  only  until  soft. 
Then  strain  as  directed  for  making  fruit  jelly,  measure  the 
juice,  return  it  to  a  clean  saucepan,  and  boil  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  skimming  thoroughly;  Add  the  heated  sugar,  three- 
fourths  pound  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  or 
until  it  jellies  nicely,  then  turn  into  glasses. 

CURRANT    JELLY 

Weigh  the  fruit,  and  to  each  pound  weigh  out  half  the 
weight  of  granulated  sugar.  Place  a  few  of  the  currants  in  a 
granite  saucepan,  mash  with  a  potato  masher  to  extract  enough 
juice  to  keep  it  from  burning,  then  add  the  remainder  of  the 
fruit,  and  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  stirring  frequently  to 
prevent  burning;  strain,  return  juice  to  a  clean  saucepan,  let 
boil  for  five  minutes,  skim,  then  add  the  sugar  previously 
heated.  This  should  jelly  at  once.  Turn  into  glasses.  Make 
blackberry  and  raspberry  jelly  in  the  same  way. 

QUINCE  JELLY 

Wash,  wipe,  and  remove  any  imperfect  spots,  quarter  and 
pore,  but  do  not  pare  the  fruit.  Cut  into  small  pieces,  and  place 
in  the  preserving  pan,  with  water  enough  to  half  cover.  Cook 
until  tender,  stirring  frequently.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  measure  the  juice,  return  to  a  clean 
saucepan,  let  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  sugar,  three-fourths 
pound  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  until  it  jellies  nicely,  remov- 
ing the  scum,  and  when  done,  turn  into  the  jelly  cups  at  once. 

CRANBERRY     JELLY 

Pick  oyer  and  wash  one  quart  of  cranberries,  and  put  them 
m  a  granite  saucepan  with  one  cupful  of  boiling  water;  cook 
about   ten    minutes,   or   until   soft.     Then   put    them   through    a 


42  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

strainer  or  vegetable  press,  return  the  juice  to  the  pan,  add  two 
cupfuls  of  sugar,  place  over  the  fire,  and  cook  about  five  min- 
utes.    Turn  into  a  mold  to  cool. 

HOW    TO     CAN    FRUIT 

General  Remarks 

Boiling  or  canning  fruit  consists  in  sealing  up  in  air-tight 
bottles,  or  jars,  fruit  which  has  previously  been  cooked.  Many- 
do  not  appreciate  the  value  of  canning  fruit  because  they  have 
never  tried  it.  But  the  process  is  so  simple,  and  the  result  so 
satisfactory,  that  those  who  have  ever  given  it  a  trial  usually 
feel  well  repaid  for  the  effort  put  forth. 

Canning  fruit  practically  lengthens  the  fruit  season  until  it 
is  perennial.  Fruit,  if  properly  canned,  can  be  preserved,  even 
for  years,  in  a  very  natural  and  wholesome  state. 

While  it  is  true  that  in  semitropical  countries  some  kind  of 
fruit  can  be  obtained  from  the  markets  at  most  seasons  of  the 
year,  it  is  both  a  matter  of  providence  and  economy  to  lay  by, 
at  a  time  when  fruit  is  cheap  and  in  season,  for  those  times 
when  it  is  scarce,  high-priced,  or  unobtainable.  A  lesson  can 
here  be  learned  from  the  bee.  During  the  summer,  when  the 
flowers  are  in  bloom,  it  culls  the  sweet,  that  it  may  have  a  store 
of  honey  to  eat  in  the  winter  hours. 

It  is  very  desirable  to  have  the  fruit  fresh,  as  picked  from 
the  tree  or  vine;  but  many  of  the  nicest  and  most  juicy  and 
delicately  flavored  fruits,  such  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  cur- 
rants, gooseberries,  plums,  blueberries,  cherries,  peaches,  and 
apricots  are  in  season  for  only  a  comparatively  short  time.  It 
is,  therefore,  of  value  to  know  how  to  preserve  these  for  the 
unseasonable  portions  of  the  year.  It  is  a  matter  of  no  little 
convenience  for  the  housewife  to  have  these  delicious  fruits  in 
her  house,  ready  for  use  at  a  moment's  notice.  But  this  can  be 
the  case  only  by  having  on  hand  a  supply  of  canned  fruit. 

Some  may  think  that  this  supply  of  canned  fruit  can  readily 
be  substituted  by  the  same  kinds  of  fruit  put  up  in  jams,  mar- 
malades, etc.,  and  that  these  can  be  purchased  at  reasonable 
prices  at  the  stores  all  ready  for  use,  and  the  trouble  of  pre- 
serving fruit  one's  self  is  thereby  saved.  While  this  may  be 
true,  the  fruit  prepared  thus  is  not  to  be  compared  to  fruit  in  its 
more  natural  state.  The  amount  of  sugar  generally  used  in 
making  jams  and  marmalades  causes  them  to  be  too  rich  in 
saccharine  matter,  and  consequently  more  liable,  if  freely  used, 
to  injure  the  teeth,  cause  acidity  of  the  stomach,  dyspepsia,  and 
liver  trouble,  while  nearly  all,  even  dyspeptics,  can  eat  simple 
stewed  fruit  of  one  kind  or  another  without  injury. 


A  Friend  in   the  Kitchen 


43 


Mason  Can 


Selecting   Cans 

In  canning  fruit,  care  should  be  taken  to  provide  good  cans 
and  perfectly  fitting  covers.  This  is  a  matter  of  much  impor- 
tance. The  Mason  glass  cans,  or  jars,  with  the 
white  porcelain-lined  covers  and  white  rubber 
bands,  are,  perhaps,  the  best.  It  may  seem  a 
little  expensive  on  the  start  to  purchase  these, 
but  there  is  practically  no  further  expense 
connected  with  them,  aside  fi'om  providing 
new  rubbers  or  covers  occasionally,  as  the 
jars  can  be  used  year  after  year,  or  until 
broken.  Either  the  pint,  quart,  or  two-quart 
jars  may  be  used,  as  best  suits  the  needs  of 
the  family. 

If  a  Mason  can  opener  is  not  at  hand,  the 
process  of  opening  the  jars  may  be  made 
easier  by  first  running  the  edge  of  a  thin 
knife  blade  around  under  the  rubbers,  care 
being  taken  not,  by  prying  or  otherwise,  to 
injure  the  rubbers  or  lids. 

After  the  fruit  has  been  used  from  the  jars, 
wash  and  dry  them,  and  set  away  for  future  use.     The  rubbers 
and  covers  may  be  put  into  a  cloth  bag  and  hung  away  from 
the  dust. 

Process 

Select  good,  sound,  fresh  fruit,  but  not  overripe,  or  it  will 
be  mushy  and  insipid  when  cooked.  The  larger  fruits  should 
not  be  quite  as  soft  for  canning  as  for  eating. 

Cook  in  a  graniteware  or  enameled  saucepan  or  preserving 
kettle.     Iron,  tin,  copper,  or  brass  should  not  be  used. 

Always  cook  slowly,  as  rapid  boiling  breaks  up  the  fruit, 
and  causes  it  to  lose  much  of  its  nice  flavor. 

Cook  thoroughly  and  evenly,  in  small  quantities,  and  in  as 
little  water  as  possible,  fruit  being  better  cooked  in  its  own 
juice,  which  soon  boils  out.  The  length  of  time  required  for 
cooking  will  depend  upon  the  kind  and  quantity  of  fruit,  hard 
and  less  ripe  fruit  requiring  more  time. 

/  Utensils  for  Canning  Fruit 

Two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit 
will  generally  be  found  sufficient  for  the  milder  fruits;  the 
more  tart,  such  as  plums,  currants,  gooseberries,  etc.,  will  re- 
quire from  six  to  eight  tablespoonfuls. 

While  the  fruit  is  cooking,  immerse  two  or  three  jars  in  a 
large  pan  of  scalding  (not  boiling)  water,  laying  them  down 
if  there  is  room.  If  the  jars  are  new,  put  them  in  cold  water, 
and  gradually  raise  the  temperature,  to  prevent  them  from 
breaking.  Likewise  put  the  covers  in  a  basin  of  hot  water. 
Much  depends  on  keeping  everything  hot. 


44 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


Have  ready  an  enameled  dipper  or  cup,  a  cloth  for  wiping 
the  outside  of  the  jars,  a  spoon,  fork,  and  a  small  pan  in  which 
to  set  the  jars  while  being  filled. 

When  the  fruit  is  well  cooked,  roll  one  of  the  jars  over  in 
the  hot  water,  empty  it,  place  it  in  the  small  pan,  and  quickly 
fill  with  the  boiling  fruit,  putting  in  a  little  of  the  juice  first. 
Fill  to  overflowing.  Skim  oflf  all  foam  or  bubbles  of  air  that 
come  to  the  top.     If  any  bubbles  are  seen  in  the  fruit,  pass  a 


Utensils  for  Canning  Fruit 

fork  or  spoon  handle,  first  dipped  in  hot  water,  down  into  the 
jar,  slightly  stirring,  when  they  will  come  to  the  top,  and  can 
be  skimmed  ofif.  Wipe  the  juice  from  the  top  of  the  jar,  and 
screw  down  the  cover  quickly  and  tightly.  See  that  the  rubber 
extends  beyond  the  cover  all  around.  Should  any  part  of  the 
edge  of  the  cgver  fail  to  fit  down  into  the  rubber  tightly  after 
being  screwed  on,  press  down  all  around  with  the  edge  of  the 
handle  of  a  strong  knife.  Turn  the  jars  upside  down  to  cool. 
If  no  juice  leaks  out,  the  sealing  is  perfect. 

After  a  few  hours  turn  the  jars  right  side  up,  and  watch  for 
a  few  days.  If  there  is  any  leakage  or  sign  of  fermentation, 
the  work  is  a  failure,  and  the  fruit  should  be  opened  at  once, 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  45  ' 

a  little  more  sugar  added,  boiled,  and  used  as  soon  as  possible. 
If  all  is  right,  store  in  a  cool,  dark  place  for  future  use.  If  a 
proper  place  is  not  convenient,  wrap  the  jars  in  brown  paper 
to  keep  out  the  light,  as  this  is  likely  to  cause  fermentation. 

If  the  foregoing  directions  are  carefully  followed,  there  is 
no  reason  why  the  work  should  not  be  a  perfect  success. 

ANOTHER  METHOD 

If  it  is  desired  to  preserve  the  fruit  asnearly  whole  as  pos- 
sible, prepare  it  as  for  cooking,  place  it,  dry,  compactly  in  the 

jars,  and  screw  the  covers  on 
loosely  without  rubbers.  Place  the 
jars,  six  or  eight  at  a  time,  in  a 
boiler,  standing  them  on  thin  pieces 
of  board,  and  filling  the  boiler  with 
sufficient  warm  water  to  come  up 
half  way  on  the  jars.  Cover 
tightly,  using  a  thick  cloth,  if  nec- 
essary, to  keep  in  the  steam;  place 
Cooking  Boiler  on  the  range,  and  after  the  water 

comes  to  the  boiling-point,  cook 
for  from  one-half  to  one  hour,  according  to  kind  and  ripeness 
of  fruit.  When  cooked,  remove  the  jars,  taking  care  not  to 
allow  a  draft  to  strike  them,  to  prevent  cracking;  allow  to  settle 
a  few  minutes;  remove  the  covers,  and  fill  with  a  sirup,  boil- 
ing hot,  allowing  about  a  cup  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit; 
or,  if  desired  to  can  without  sugar,  fill  the  jars  with  boiling 
water.  Put  on  the  rubbers,  and  seal  at  once,  testing  by  turning 
bottom  side  up. 

This    method    should    be    employed    in    canning    vegetables. 
Only  perfectly  fresh  vegetables  should  be  used  for  canning. 

CANNED    BEANS  AND    PEAS 

Prepare  string-beans  as  for  ordinary  cooking,  then  press  and 
pack  them  closely  into  the  jars  until  full,  adding  a  little  salt; 
fill  the  jars  to  overflowing  with  cold  water,  then  screw  on  the 
covers  fairly  close,  place  the  jars  in  a  boiler,  as  directed  above, 
and  cook  for  four  hours;  remove  from  the  water,  take  oflf  the 
covers,  place  on  the  rubbers,  screw  on  the  covers  tightly.  Peas 
should  be  shelled,  then  canned  in  the   same  manner. 

CANNED   SWEET  CORN 

Select  that  which  is  fresh,  and  cut  from  the  cob  as  directed 
for  stewed  sweet  corn  (page  57).  Then  press  and  pack  closely 
into  the  jars  until  the  milk  appears  on  the  top,  and  they  are 
full.  No  water  or  salt  should  be  added.  Boil  for  five  or  six 
hours. 


46  A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen 

CANNED     PEACHES 

Select  ripe,  firm  peaches,  nearly  soft  enough  to  eat,  avoiding 
the  clingstones.  The  Crawfords  are  perhaps  the  best.  Pare, 
divide  in  halves,  removing  the  stones,  and  drop  into  cold  water 
to  prevent  discoloring.  For  each  quart  of  fruit  pour  a  cupful 
of  water  into  a  saucepan,  add  three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  and  let  boil  up;  drain  the  peaches  from  the  cold  water, 
and  put  them  into  the  hot  sirup;  cook  slowly  till  tender,  and  can. 

CANNED     BERRIES 

Select  those  freshlj'-  picked;  if  necessary  to  be  washed,  place 
a  few  at  a  time  in  a  colander  and  dip  in  and  out  of  cold  water; 
cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  adding  the  necessary  sugar 
when  nearly  done,  and  can. 

CANNED    QUINCES 

Wipe  with  a  cloth,  pare,  quarter,  core,  and  divide  each  quar- 
ter into  thirds.  For  each  two  quarts  of  fruit  pour  three  cups  of 
water  into  a  saucepan,  add  nearly  two  cups  of  sugar,  and  let  ■ 
boil  up;  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and  cook  slowly  for  an  hour  and 
a  half,  or  until  tender  and  of  a  rich  pink  color,  and  can.  Equal 
parts  of  quinces  and  apples  or  pears  may  be  stewed  together. 

CANNED     TOMATOES 

Select  smooth,  a  little  under-ripe,  meaty  tomatoes;  put  them 
into  a  pan,  and  pour  scalding  water  over  them  to  make  the 
skins  come  off  readily;  then  with  a  sharp,  pointed  knife  re- 
move the  cores,  pare,  cut  into  thick  slices,  press  well  into  the 
jars,  screw  the  covers  on  loosely  without  rubbers,  place  in 
boiler,  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes  after  reaching  the  boiling- 
point,  according  to  directions  under  "Another  Method."  But 
little  filling  will  be  needed  after  being  cooked.  For  this  have  a 
few  tomatoes  stewed  in  a  saucepan.  Turn  upside  down  till 
cool,  then  wrap  in  brown  paper,  and  keep  in  a  dark  place. 

GRAPE    JUICE 

Take  fresh,  well-ripened,  dark,  juicy  grapes,  such  as  the 
Black  Prince  or  Concord;  pick  from  the  stems,  rejecting  all 
that  are  imperfect;  wash  well,  and  put  to  cook  in  an  enameled 
saucepan  with  a  pint  of  water  for  each  three  quarts  of  grapes. 
Cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  the  grapes  burst  open; 
then  drain  oflf  the  juice  through  a  jelly-bag,  filtering  the  skins 
and  seeds  through  a  separate  bag.  Reheat,  add  one-half  cup  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  juice  if  desired  to  sweeten,  and  can  in  jars 
the  same  as  f-uit;  or,  put  in  sterilized  bottles,  filling  within  an 
inch  of  the  top,  and  cork  at  once  with  good,  solid  corks;  cut 
oflf  the  corks  close  to  the  bottle,  and  seal  over  with  sealing- 
wax.  Bottle  the  juice  from  the  skins  separately,  as  it  will  be 
less  clear.     Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 


The  first  wealth  is  health. —  Emerson. 

Vegetarians    suffer   little    from   thirst. —  Hygienic  Review. 

Let  them  give  us  pulse  to  eat,  and  water  to  drink. —  Daniel. 

Sir  Isaac  Newton,  when  writing  his  great  work,  "  Principia," 
lived  wholly  upon  a  vegetable  diet. 

Body   and   mind   are  much   influenced  by   the   kind   of   food 
habitually  depended  upon. —  O.  W.  Holmes. 

^      ^      ^ 

WHILE  not  furnishing  the  most  nutritious  diet,  vege- 
tables contain  many  nutritive  elements  in  moderate 
degree,  are  rich  in  mineral  substances,  and  being  composed 
largely  of  water,  perfectly  supply  many  of  the  needs  of  the 
human  system.  Such  vegetables,  however,  as  peas,  beans, 
and  lentils,  properly  termed  legumes,  are  highly  nutritious. 
They  are  commonly  understood  to  be  of  the  nature  of  the 
"  pulse  "  upon  which  Daniel  the  prophet  subsisted  in  pref- 
erence to  the  king's  meat.  While  an  exclusive  diet  of  ordi- 
nary vegetables  might  fail  to  give  sufficient  nourishment 
to  meet  the  demands  of  the  entire  system,  their  use  is  valu- 
able in  furnishing  it  with  a  large  quantity  of  organic  fluids, 
and  in  giving  bulk  to  the  food.  It  is  best  to  combine  their 
use  with  other  foods,  such  as  grains,  which  supply  the 
qualities  lacking  in  the  vegetables. 

47 


48  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

Only  fresh  vegetables  should  be  used.  Those  which 
are  stale  can  not  be  made  wholesome  and  palatable  by  cook- 
ing. Their  use  imperils  the  health  of  the  family,  and  is 
liable  to  cause  serious  illness.  Herein  lies  an  advantage 
in  having  one's  own  garden. 

Care  should  be  taken  not  to  cook  vegetables  too  much 
or  too  little.  They  should  be  neither  overdone  nor  under- 
done, but  "just  right."  Cooking  vegetables,  grains,  and 
fruits  is  advantageous,  as  it  bursts  the  particles  of  starch, 
and  thus  renders  them  more  easy  of  digestion. 

While  cooking  vegetables,  a  good,  steady  fire  should 
be  kept  up,  and  the  kettle  kept  full  of  hot  water  for 
replenishing. 

Never  replenish  with  cold  water,  but  always  with  hot. 

A  good  rule  to  follow  in  cooking  vegetables  is  to  put 
to  cook  in  hot  water  all  vegetables  that  require  to  have 
the  water  drained  off  when  done,  and  in  cold  water  those 
that  are  to  retain  it. 

All  green  vegetables,  such  as  spinach,  cabbage,  etc., 
should  be  put  to  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water ;  the  dry 
vegetables,  such  as  potatoes,  carrots,  beans,  split  peas,  and 
lentils  should  be  cooked  in  un-salted  water.  About  a  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  should  generally  be  allowed  to  a  gallon 
of  water,  or  one  third  of  a  teaspoonful  to  every  pint  of 
cooked  vegetables. 

In  washing  potatoes,  a  coarse  cloth  or  brush  may  be 
used  to  advantage.  If  to  be  baked,  they  should  be  wiped 
dry  before  placing  in  the  oven. 

It  is  a  matter  of  both  economy  and  improvement  to 
pare  potatoes  very  thin,  as  much  of  the  mealiest  and  most 
nutritious  portion  lies  next  to  the  skin. 

As  each  potato  is  pared,  it  should  be  dropped  into  a 
pan  of  clean,   cold   water;  if  allowed  to  fall  back  among 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  49 

the  parings,  the  potatoes  will  be  dark  and  'discolored  when 
cooked. 

Potatoes  should  never  be  allowed  to  remain  in  the 
water  in  which  they  have  boiled  after  they  are  done.  It 
should  be  drained  off  immediately  to  prevent  their  becom- 
ing soggy  and  water-soaked.  If  given  a  few  vigorous 
shakes,  which  allows  the  steam  to  escape,  they  will  be  much 
more  dry  and  mealy. 

Old  potatoes,  in  the  spring,  should  be  allowed  to  stand 
in  cold  water  for  an  hour  before  paring,  to  reabsorb  the 
moisture  they  have  lost  through  evaporation. 

In  baking  potatoes  the  oven  should  be  hot  when  they 
are  put  in,  and  the  temperature  increased  rather  than  di- 
minished afterward. 

Only  dry,  ripe,  mealy  potatoes  are  good  baked. 

Onions  should  be  boiled  in  two  waters,  first  for  about 
fifteen  minutes  with  cold  water  put  on,  then  drained  off, 
and  boiling,  salted  water  added  to  finish. 

To  peel  tomatoes  readily,  first  pour  over  them  a  little 
scalding  water.    This  also  appHes  to  plums. 

}^     L      «? 

BOILED    POTATOES    (without  skins) 

Wash,  pare  thin,  and  drop  into  cold  water  to  prevent  discol- 
oring.   If  not  of  a  uniform  size,  cut  the  larger  ones  in  two.    Put 

to  cook  in  only  enough  boiling  water 
to  prevent  burning;  cook  gently  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes;  when  done, 
drain  off  all  the  water,  place  over  the 
fire  for  a  moment,  then  give  the 
saucepan  a  vigorous  shake,  cover  with 

a  coarse  cloth,  and   set   on  the  back 

Saucepan  °f  the  range  to  dry. 

Large    quantities    of    potatoes    are 
best  cooked  by  steaming  over  boiling  water. 

BOILED    POTATOES     (with   skins) 

Select   potatoes   of   even    size;    wash   clean    with   a    cloth   or 
brush,  and   remove   the   eyes  and  specks   with    a   knife;   put  to 


50  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  water;  drain  when  tender, 
and  place  the  saucepan  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  dry;  re- 
move the  skins  and  serve.  Potatoes  are  best  cooked  in  this 
way.     Serve  in  an  open  vegetable  dish. 

BAKED     POTATOES 

Choose  smooth  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  wash  well,  being 
careful  to  clean  the  eyes.  Dry  with  a  cloth,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven;  in  a  slow  oven  the  skins  become  thick  and  hard.  Serve 
as  soon  as  done,  in  an  open  dish;  if  covered,  they  will  become 
soggy.  B^ked  potatoes  are  very  wholesome,  and  make  a  good 
breakfast   dish. 

MASHED    POTATOES 

Wash,  pare,  and  boil  the  same  as  boiled  potatoes.  When 
they  can  be  readily  pierced  with  a  fork,  drain  thoroughly; 
return   to   the   range   and   mash,   using 

the  potato  masher  vigorously  for  five     ci^ — jt 

or   ten    minutes,    until    they    are    light, 
smooth,    and    creamy    in    appearance.  p  ♦  *     lur    t, 

A  wire  potato  masher  does  the  work  "^^^°  Masner 

most  satisfactorily.  Have  warmed  in  a  saucepan  a  half  cupful 
of  cream  or  milk,  adding  a  small  piece  of  butter  if  milk  is  used, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  the  well-beaten  white  of  one  egg; 
beat  this  into  the  potatoes  until  they  are  very  light.  Put  lightly 
into  a  warm  dish,  but  do  not  press  down,  and  serve  at  once. 
If  desired,  the  e§§  may  be  omitted.  Very  nice  served  with 
cream  sauce  or  brown  sauce. 

STEAMED     SLICED     POTATOES 

Wash,  pare,  and  slice  several  medium-sized  potatoes  very 
thin.  Have  in  a  frying-pan  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  a  half 
cup  of  hot  water,  put  in  the  potatoes,  season  with  salt,  cover 
closely,  and  set  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  cook  slowly.  Stir 
up  a  little  occasionally.  A  few  thinly  sliced  onions  may  be 
used  with  the  potatoes  if  desired. 

WARMED-UP     POTATOES 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  thin  slices;  heat  a  little  milk  to 
boiling  in  a  saucepan;  put  in  the  potatoes,  and  season  with 
salt  to  taste.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve.  If  desired,  the 
milk  may  be  slightly  thickened  with  a  little  flour  blended  in  a 
little  cold  milk. 

POTATO     PUFF 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  hot,  seasoned,  mashed  potatoes,  and 
moisten  well  with  hot  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the  yolks  and 
whites  of  two  eggs  separately;  allow  the  potatoes  to  cool 
slightly,  then  beat  in  the  eggs,  the  yolks   first.     Turn  at  once 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  51 

into  an  oiled,  shallow  tin;  do  not  smooth  or  press  them 
down,  but  leave  in  a  rocky  form.  Bake  about  ten  minutes,  or 
till  a  delicate  brown. 

LYONNAISE    POTATOES 

Cut  into  dice  enough  cold  boiled  potatoes  to  make  one  pint, 
brown  to  a  golden  yellow  a  spoonful  each  of  butter  or  oil  and 
minced  onion.  Add  the  potatoes,  season  with  salt,  and  stir  with 
a  fork  till  a  delicate  brown,  being  careful  not  to  break  them. 
Add  a  spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  hot. 

NEW    POTATOES 

If  new  and  fresh,  the  skins  may  be  easily  scraped  ofif  with  a 
knife,  or  rubbed  off  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Cook  in  a  little  water, 
drain,  and  serve;  or,  when  done,  drain,  pour  some  rich,  sweet 
milk  over  them,  let  it  heat  to  boiling,  then  thicken  with  a  little: 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  allowing  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  to  a  pint  of  milk,  and  season  with  salt.  A  few  green 
peas  cooked  with  new  potatoes  and  thus  dressed  make  a  very 
acceptable  dish. 

POTATOES    WITH     CREAM 

Pare,  and  cut  as  many  as  desired  into  small  cubes;  put  info 
boiling  water  and  cook  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  when 
done,  drain  off  all  the  water,  let  dry  a  few  minutes  over  the 
fire,  then  add  a  little  salt,  a  cup  of  thin  cream,  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley;  simmer  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  serve 
at  once. 

BAKED    SWEET     POTATOES 

Choose  those  of  uniform  size,  wash  thoroughly,  removing 
any  imperfect  spots,  wipe  dry,  and  place  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven;  bake  for  about  an  hour  if  the  potatoes  are  rather  large. 
Small  potatoes  are  better  steamed  than  baked.  Send  to  the 
table  as  soon  as  done,  after  removing  the  skins. 

BOILED     SWEET    POTATOES 

Wash  well,  put  into  cold  water  with  the  skins  on,  and  boil 

until   easily  pierced  with   a  fork;    drain,   remove   the   skins,  and 

place  in  the  oven  to  dry  for  five  or  ten  minutes;  serve  in  a  hot, 
open  dish. 

BROWNED     SWEET     POTATOES 

Take  cold,  boiled  sweet  potatoes,  peel,  cut  into  halves,  place 
on  shallow  buttered  tins,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

ROASTED     SWEET    POTATOES 

Wash,  wipe  dry,  wrap  with  thin  paper,  and  cover  first  with 
hot  ashes,  then  with  live  coals.     Turn  occasionally.     The  coals 


52  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

may  need  renewing  several  times.  When  done,  remove  the 
ashes  with  a  brush,  wipe  with  a  dry  cloth,  and  serve.  Sweet 
potatoes  are  nicer  and  more  mealy  when  prepared  in  this  way. 

YAMS 

Prepare  the  same  as  roasted  sweet  potatoes  or  baked  sweet 
potatoes.     Boiling  them  is  thought  to  quite  spoil  their  flavor. 

STEWED    TOMATOES 

Take  nice,  fresh  tomatoes,  pour  boiling  water  over  them, 
remove  the  skins,  slice  into  a  granite  saucepan,  add  a  cupful 
of  water,  and  stew  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Then  add 
salt,  kutter,  and  a  half  cup  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  or 
slightly  thicken  with  cornstarch,  blended  with  a  little  cold 
water.     Sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

BAKED    TOMATOES 

Select  smooth,  even-sized,  ripe  tomatoes.  Peel,  remove  the 
stems,  and  place  in  an  earthen  pudding  dish;  season  with  a 
little  salt  and  butter  or  cream,  and  bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven 
for  half  an  hour. 

TOMATOES    AND    MACARONI 

Put    to    cook    one-half    cup    of   macaroni    broken    into   inch 

pieces    into    three    cups    of    boiling    water;         ^^^===__,^^ 
boil  for  about   an    hour,  or   until  perfectly      ^^luliL''  '  imM^ 
tender,    adding    more    water    if    necessary,      ^^^^^^^^mff 
When   done,  put  into  a  pudding  dish,   and         ^^Tlh     -||WP^ 
pour    over    two    cups    of    stewed    tomatoes  ^'^attcr — -rliriP'' 

previously  rubbed  through  a  colander.    Add  rni^nAo^. 

a   little   salt,    a    few   bits    of   butter,    a   half  '-oianaer 

cup  of  sweet  cream,  and  bake  in  the  oven  till  done.  If  the  to- 
matoes are  quite  juicy,  a  teaspoonful  of  flour  m.ay  be  used  for 
thickening. 

SCALLOPED    TOMATOES 

Take   one    quart    of  stewed   fresh   or   canned    tomatoes,    rub 
through  a  colander,  and  thicken  with  a  cupful 
of   bread   or   cracker   crumbs;   add   a   little   salt, 
a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  bake  for  twenty 
Can  Opener.  ov  thirty  minutes. 

BOILED    BEANS 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  soak  two  cupfuls  of  beans  overnight  in 
cold  water.  In  the  morning  drain,  and  put  to  cook  in  hot  water. 
Cook  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  or  until  perfectly  tender, 
adding  more  hot  water  as  needed,  as  they  should  be  quite  juicy 
when  done;  avoid  much  stirring.     Season  with  salt  and  a  little 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  53 

butter  or  cream.  Colored  beans  having  too  strong  a  flavor 
may  be  improved  by  parboiling  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  drain- 
ing, and  putting  to  cook  in  fresh  boiling  water. 

BOILED     BEANS     WITH     RICE 

Wash  and  soak  two  cupfuls  of  beans  in  cold  water  over- 
night; in  the  morning  put  to  cook,  and  after  about  an  hour 
add  one-half  cup  of  well-washed  rice.  Cook  slowly  until  done, 
season  as  above,  and  serve. 

BAKED    BEANS 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  beans,  pick  over,  wash,  soak  overnight, 
and  cook  the  same  as  boiled  beans.  When  done,  add  a  little 
butter  and  salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses;  turn  into 
a  pudding  dish,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned.  A  little  hot  water 
should  be  added  occasionally  to  prevent  their  becoming  too  dry. 

BAKED  GREEN  BEANS  AND  CORN 

Shell  the  beans,  and  cut  the  sweet  corn  from  the  cob.  Put 
layers  of  each  in  equal  quantities  in  a  bean  pot  or  pan,  season- 
ing with  salt  and  butter.  Add  boiling  water  to  cover,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  for  about  two  hours,  adding  more  hot  water  as  it 
becomes  absorbed. 

MASHED  BEANS 

Soak  overnight  two  cupfuls  of  beans,  and  cook  the  same  as 
boiled  beans.  When  very  tender,  and  the  water  nearly  ab- 
sorbed, rub  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  skins;  add  half 
a  cup  of  cream  or  of  rich,  sweet  milk  and  a  little  butter;  put 
into  a  shallow  dish,  smooth  the  top  with  a  knife  or  spoon,  and 
place  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

STRING    BEANS 

Wash,  break  oflf  each  end,  stripping  the  strong  fibers  from 
end  to  end.  Cut  or  break  into  inch  lengths,  and  put  to  cook  in 
enough  boiling,  slightly  salted  water  to  cover.  Cook  from  one 
to  two  hours,  or  until  very  tender,  the  length  of  time  required 
depending  upon  the  age  and  variety  of  the  beans.  The  water 
should  be  quite  absorbed  when  done.  Add  a  little  milk  and 
butter  if  cream  is  not  available.     Let  come  to  a  boil,  and  serve. 

SPLIT    PEAS 

Look  over  carefully,  wash,  and  put  to  cook  in  a  good  quan- 
tity of  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  until 
tender  and  the  water  quite  absorbed.  Press  through  a  colander 
if  desired  to  remove  the  skins,  season  with  salt,  and  cream  or 
butter,  and  serve. 


54  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

GREEN     PEAS 

Shell,  and  put  to  cook  in  boiling,  slightly  salted  water,  al- 
lowing one  cupful  of  water  to  every  four  cups  of  peas.  If  they 
are  old,  and  need  longer  cooking,  add  more  water  if  necessary. 
Cover,  and  cook  rather  slowly  till  tender.  About  thirty  rnin- 
utes'  cooking  for  fresh,  young  peas  will  be  found  sufficient. 
When  done,  pour  over  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  heat  to  boiling, 
and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Season  with  a  little  salt,  and  a 
spoonful  of  cream  or  a  small  piece  of  butter. 

LENTILS 

Cook,  season,  and  serve  the  same  as  split  peas,  only  less 
water  and  less  time  for  cooking  will  be  required. 

BAKED     RICE 

Take  one  cupful  of  rice,  wash  well  by  turning  into  a  colan- 
der and  dipping  in  and  out  of  warm  water,  put  into  a  pudding 
dish,  and  pour  over  four  cupfuls  of  milk,  or  two  each  of  milk 
and  water,  adding  a  little  salt.  Bake  about  an  hour,  stirring 
once  or  twice  before  the  top  becomes  hard.  Serve  as  a  veg- 
etable with  lentil  sauce. 

PLAIN     BOILED  RICE 

Wash  thoroughly  one  cupful  of  rice,  and  sprinkle  it  slowly 
into  a  granite  saucepan  containing  two  or  three  quarts  of 
rapidly  boiling,  slightly  salted  water.  If  the  grains  sink  to  the 
bottom,  stir  gently  until  they  keep  in  motion  themselves.  Boil 
rapidly,  without  covering,  for  thirty  minutes,  or  until  soft; 
then  drain  through  a  colander  and  rinse  with  hot  water  to 
remove  all  starch.  The  grains  should  be  separate  and  distinct 
from  one  another.  It  may  be  served  with  a  tomato  sauce.  See 
page  77. 

SPAGHETTI    WITH    TOMATO    SAUCE 

Break  in  pieces  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water,  or  cook 
whole  by  dipping  the  ends  in  the  hot  water,  and  as  they  bend, 
coil  them  around  in  the  saucepan.  Cook  for  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  soft,  then  drain,  rinse  with  hot  water  to  re- 
move starch  if  it  is  sticky,  turn  into  a  dish  and  pour  over  a 
hot  tomato  sauce,  made  as  directed  on  page  77. 

STEWED    CAULIFLOWER 

Carefuly  separate  into  small  portions;  examine  closely  to 
make  sure  there  are  no  insects  on  it;  let  stand  a  short  time  in 
cold  water,  then  put  into  boiling,  salted  water,  and  cook  from 
twenty  to  forty  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Drain,  season  with  a 
little  butter  or  cream,  or  serve  with  cream  sauce  poured  over  it. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  55 

CAULIFLOWER    WITH    TOMATO     SAUCE 

Cook  the  same  as  stewed  cauliflower.  When  done,  drain, 
turn  into  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  a  hot  tomato  sauce. 

STEWED     CABBAGE 

Remove  the  outer  leaves,  divide  into  halves,  cut  very  fine 
with  a  sharp  knife,  omitting  the  heart.  Put  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  half  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  a  little  salt,  cover  closely, 
and  cook  until  tender,  adding  a  little  more  hot  water,  if  it  be- 
comes too  dry  before  it  is  done.  When  done,  add  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  allow  to  heat,  and  serve. 

BOILED    CABBAGE 

Remove  the  outer  leaves,  place  in  cold  water  for  half  an 
hour,  then  quarter,  and  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  adding  a 
little  salt.  Boil  vigorously  for  about  thirty  minutes;  turn  into 
a  colander,  remove  the  heart  and  coarse  portions,  press  out  all 
the  water,  return  to  the  saucepan,  and  season  with  butter  or 
cream;  allow  to  heat,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  at  once. 

BOILED     CELERY 

Take  one  bunch  of  celery,  cut  of¥  tops  and  roots,  scrape  and 
wash  the  stalks,  then  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  and  put  to  cook 
in  boiling  water.  Let  cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or 
until  tender;  drain,  turn  into  a  heated  dish,.. and  pour  over 
a  cream  sauce.     For  making  cream  sauce  see  page  77. 

STEWED    ASPARAGUS 

Wash,  break  into  small  pieces,  and  cook  from  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes  in  just  enough  water  to  cover;  when  tender, 
drain,  add  a  little  butter  and  salt  and  a  cup  of  milk;  let  come 
to  a  boil,  and  thicken  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Boil  up  and 
serve. 

BOILED    CARROTS 

Select  small  or  medium-sized  carrots,  wash,  scrape,  rinse  in 
cold  water,  then  put  to  cook  in  boiling  water;  cook  about  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  tender,  then  drain.  Serve  as  boiled,  or  slice 
them  into  a  heated  vegetable  dish,  and  pour  over  them  a  cream 
sauce  prepared  as  directed  on  page  77. 

BOILED     PARSNIPS 

Prepa-re  and  cook  the  same  as  boiled  carrots. 

BAKED     PARSNIPS 

Wash,  scrape,  rinse,  divide  in  halves,  add  a  little  more  than 
enough  boiling  water  to  cook  them,  and  boil  slowly  until  ten- 


56  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

der;  place  in  a  shallow  dish,  pour  over  the  juice  that  remains, 
add  a  little  salt,  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream,  and  place  in  the 
oven  until  nicely  browned,  basting  occasionally. 

STEWED     TURNIPS 

Pare  the  turnips,  cut  into  slices,  and  cook  until  perfectly 
tender;  then  drain,  mash  fine  with  a  spoon  or  potato  masher, 
season  with  salt,  a  little  butter  or  cream  if  desired,  and  serve. 

SLICED    CUCUMBERS 

Pare  the  cucumbers,  slice  them  very  thin  into  a  dish, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  cover  loosely,  and  shake  briskly  to  dis- 
tribute the  salt;  let  stand  for  about  half  an  hour;  then  drain  off 
all  the  water,  and  shortly  before  serving  pour  over  the  juice  of 
one  or  two  lemons.  A  spoonful  or  two  of  cream  may  be  added 
if  desired.  Cucumbers  should  be  thoroughly  masticated.  Their 
reputed  indigestibility  is  largely  due  to  a  failure  in  this  par- 
ticular, 

BOILED    ONIONS 

Cut  ofiF  the  tops  and  bottoms,  remove  the  outer  skins,  and 
put  to  cook  in  cold  water;  boil  fifteen  minutes;  then  drain,  and 
cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender;  turn  into  a  pudding 
dish,  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  pour  over  a  cupful  of  hot  cream 
sauce,  sprinkle  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  until 
brown.     For  making  cream  sauce  see  page  yy. 

BAKED     SQUASH 

Cut  into  sections,  and  place  shell  downward  on  the  top  shelf 
of  the  oven.  Bake  until  tender,  and  serve  hot  in  the  shell;  or, 
scrape  out  the  inside,  mash,  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cream  or  a 
little  butter,  and  serve. 

STEWED    SQUASH 

Peel,  remove  seeds,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  stew  until  ten- 
der in  a  little  boiling  water;  drain,  mash  smooth,  and  season 
with  butter  and  salt.  Vegetable  marrows  may  be  prepared  in 
the  same  manner, 

SUCCOTASH 

Soak  one  cupful  of  beans  overnight.  When  ready  to  cook, 
add  water  and  one  cupful  of  dried  sweet  corn,  and  cook  until 
tender.  Season  with  salt,  a  little  cream  or  butter,  and  serve. 
If  green  sweet  corn  is  used,  do  not  add  it  to  the  beans  until 
they  are  nearly  done. 

BOILED     SWEET     CORN 

Select  full-grown  ears,  not  old  and  hard,  but  full  of  milk; 
remove  the  husks  and  silks,  and  put  to  cook  in  enough  boiling, 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  57 

salted  water  to  cover.  Boil  from  thirty  to  forty  minutes;  when 
done,  drain,  and  serve  on  the  cob  hot,  with  a  little  butter  if 
desired.  The  corn  from  ears  not  eaten  may  be  cut  from  the  cob 
and  warmed  up  with  a  little  cream  or  butter  for  the  next  meal. 

STEWED     SWEET    CORN 

Remove  husks  and  silks,  stand  the  ears  in  a  dish,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  off  the  corn  from  the  top  downward,  taking  a 
little  more  than  half  of  the  kernel  in  depth;  then  scrape  gently 
downward  to  get  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  meat  of  each 
kernel.  Place  in  a  saucepan,  add  half  a  cup  of  water  for  each 
quart  of  corn,  and  cook  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  When 
done,  add  a  little  salt,  a  half  cup  of  cream,  or  a  cup  of  milk  and 
a  little  butter,  boil  up  and  serve.  The  milk  may  be  slightly 
thickened  with  flour,  if  desired. 

BAKED     BEETS 

Take  young,  tender  beets,  wash  clean,  place  in  a  baking  dish 
with  a  little  water,  and  bake  from  one  to  two  hours,  or  until 
tender;  add  a  little  hot  water  occasionally  if  they  become  dry. 
When  done,  remove  the  skins,  slice,  and  serve  with  lemon-juice. 

BOILED    BEETS 

Cut  off  the  tops,  but  avoid  cutting  the  beets;  put  to  cook  in 
boiling  water.  When  tender,  remove  to  a  pan  of  cold  water; 
rub  ofif  the  skins  with  the  hands,  slice  thin,  and  serve  with 
lemon-juice. 

BEET    GREENS 

Take  the  tops  from  young,  tender  beets,  look  over,  put  to 
cook  in  boiling,  slightly  salted  water,  and  cook  until  tender; 
then  drain  in  a  colander;  chop  rather  fine,  and  serve  with  lemon- 
juice. 

SPINACH 

Look  over  carefully  a  good  quantity  of  spinach,  rejecting  all 
wilted  and  decayed  leaves.  Wash  thoroughly  in  several  waters, 
and  put  to  cook  in  slightly  salted,  boiling  water,  and  boil  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  When  tender,  drain  in  a  colander,  cut 
into  coarse  pieces,  and  put  into  a  warm  dish;  add  a  few  bits  of 
butter,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs.  Serve  with 
lemon-juice. 

CELERY 

Remove  all  the  green  and  decayed  parts  from  the  stalks,  and 
put  into  cold  water.  When  ready  to  serve,  place  in  a  celery 
glass  with  the  small  ends  downward.  Curl  the  tops  by  cutting 
into  narrow  strips  a  little  way  down.  Celery  is  recommended 
as  a  good  nerve  food. 


mDS#MLADDRE'55INjS 


Plain  and  healthful  living  tends  to 
long  and  happy  living. — Selected. 

The   foundation   of   a   happy  home 
is  laid  in  the  kitchen. — Marion  Harland.       ..««!^^^-^ 

TOMATO    SALAD,    NO.    1 

Peel  smooth,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  into  thin  slices,  and  arrange 
in  layers  in  a  dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  sugar.  Turn  over 
the  whole  a  half  cup  of  lemon-juice  before  serving. 

TOMATO    SALAD,    NO.    2 

Peel,  slice,  and  place  in  a  dish,  and  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt. 
To  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg  add  the  juice  of  one  or  two 
lemons,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  pour  all  together  over  the 
tomatoes. 

CABBAGE  SALAD,  NO.  1 

Chop  very  fine  half  a  small  head  of  crisp  cabbage,  and  put 
into  a  dish.  Mix  together  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  the 
juice  of  two  lemons,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage;  add  a  spoonful 
or  two  of  thick  cream,  stir  together,  and  serve.  The  cream  may 
be  omitted  if  preferred. 

CABBAGE  SALAD,  NO.  2 

Chop  the  cabbage  fine,  and  dress  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
If  preferred  omit  to  thin  the  dressing  with  cream,  and  cover  the 
cabbage  with  whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened. 

CABBAGE    AND    TOMATO     SALAD 

Cut  the  cabbage  as  above,  and  put  into  a  dish.  Peel  and  slice 
two  or  three  large,  ripe  tomatoes,  and  place  on  the  cabbage. 
Toss  up  lightly  in  the  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  pour  over 
all  the  juice  of  two  lemons. 

LETTUCE    SALAD,    NO.    1 

Separate  the  leaves,  look  over,  wash,  and  put  into  cold  water 
a  while  before  using.  When  ready  to  serve,  place  on  a  dish  and 
pour  over  a  dressing  made  of  equal  quantities  of  lemon-juice, 
sugar,  and  water. 

LETTUCE    SALAD,    NO.    2 

Wash  and  shred  two  heads  of  lettuce.  Boil  two  eggs  until 
hard,  remove  the  shells,  and  mash  the  yolks  fine;  mix  well 
together  the  juice  of  one   or  two  lemons,  two  or  three  table- 

58 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  59 

spoonfuls  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream,  adding  this 
last  to  prevent  curdling,  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  pour 
over  the  lettuce.  Cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  rings  and 
arrange  on  the  top.  A  spoonful  or  two  of  minced  onion  may 
also  be  added. 

POTATO    SALAD 

Cut  into  thin  slices,  hot  or  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  place  in 
a  dish  without  breaking  slices.  A  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  to 
each  pint  of  potatoes  may  be  added  if  desired.  Cover  with  may- 
onnaise dressing. 

VEGETABLE   SALAD 

Put  a  layer  of  fresh  watercress  or  lettuce  into  a  salad  bowl, 
then  alternate  with  layers  of  peeled,  thinly  sliced  cucumber  and 
tomatoes.  When  enough  is  prepared,  place  a  border  of  water- 
cress around  the  bowl.  Just  before  serving,  pour  over  a  French 
dressing,  and  toss  up  lightly  with  a  fork  till  well  mingled. 

FRUIT    SALAD 

Place  in  salad  dish  alternate  layers  of  sliced  bananas  and 
strawberries,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  sugar.  Cover  with 
whipped  cream,  and  serve. 

BANANA   SALAD 

Slice  crosswise  six  ripe  bananas  into  a  dish;  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  then  turn  over  them  the  juice  of  two  nice  large 
oranges;  let  stand  for  an  hour  in  a  cool  place,  and  serve. 

NUT   AND    CELERY    SALAD 

Take  three  cupfuls  of  finely  cut,  crisp  celery,  and  one  cupful 
of  chopped  English  walnuts;  dress  with  mayonnaise  dressing, 
made  thin  with  a  little  sweet  cream. 

FRENCH    DRESSING 

Mix  thoroughly  together  six  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice. 

MAYONNAISE    DRESSING 

To  the  yolks  of  two  fresh  eggs  add  a  scant  teaspoonful  of 
salt;  then  beat  in  slowly,  almost  drop  by  drop,  a  small  cupful 
of  olive-oil.  The  mixture  should  become  nearly  as  thick  as 
butter.  Then  gradually  add  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice. 
Thin  with  sweet  cream.  Nice  for  potato,  cabbage,  or  nut 
salads.     If  used  for  tomato  salad,   omit  the  cream. 


■■  As  a  man  eateth,  so  is  he. —  German  Proverb. 

Lord  Byron  refused  to  eat  meat  because,  as  he  said,  "  It 
makes  me   ferocious." 

The  flesh  of  animals  tends  to  cause  grossness  of  body,  and 
to  benumb  the  finer  sensibilities  of  the  mind. — "  Bible  Hygiene." 

The  eating  of  much  flesh  fills  us  with  a  multitude  of  evil  dis- 
eases, and  a  multitude  of  evil  desires. —  Porphyrises,  233  a.  d. 

Animal  food  is  one  of  the  greatest  means  by  which  the  pure 
sentiment  of  the  race  is  depressed. —  Alcott. 

The  candidates  for  ancient  athletic  games  were  dieted  on 
boiled  grain  with  warm  water,  cheese,  and  dried  figs,  but  no 
meat.     Modern  athletes  are  not  allowed  meat  while  in  training. 

I  have  known  men  who  prayed  for  a  good  temper  in  vain, 
until  their  physician  proscribed  eating  so  much  meat;  for  they 
could  not  endure  such  stimulation. —  Henry  Ward  Beecher. 

The  liability  to  disease  is  increased  by  flesh  eating.  Where 
plenty  of  good  milk  and  fruit  can  be  obtained,  there  is  rarely 
any  excuse  for  eating  animal  food. — "  Christian  Temperance." 

^       ^       ^ 

FROM  the  instruction  given  at  the  beginning  respecting 
foods,  it  is  evident  the  Creator  did  not  design  that 
either  man  or  beast  should  subsist  on  flesh  foods.  To 
Adam  and  Eve  he  said :  "  Behold,  I  have  given  you  every 
herb  bearing  seed,  which  is  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth, 
and  every  tree,  in  the  which  is  the  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding 
seed ;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat.  And  to  every  beast  of 
the  earth,  and  to  every  fowl  of  the  air,  and  to  everything 
that  creepeth  upon  the  earth,  wherein  there  is  life,  I  have 
given  every  green  herb  for  meat."  Gen.  i :  29,  30. 
60 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  61 

But  sin  brought  many  changes  into  our  world,  and 
because  of  the  changed  circumstances,  customs,  and  prac- 
tises were  instituted  and  allowed  which  were  not  in  har- 
mony with  the  primeval  order  of  things.  Among  other 
things  meat  eating  was  permitted.  Just  after  the  flood, 
when  the  face  of  the  earth  had  been  desolated,  God  said  to 
Noah :  "  Every  moving  thing  that  liveth  shall  be  meat  for 
3'ou ;  even  as  the  green  herb  have  I  given  you  all  things." 
Gen.  9 : 3.  But  the  blood  was  not  to  be  eaten  with  the 
flesh, —  a  very  wise  provision,  for  if  there  is  any  disease 
in  the  system,  it  is  sure  to  be  found  in  the  blood. 

A  little  later,  as  a  further  precaution  in  the  interests  of 
health,  instruction  was  given  that  only  the  flesh  of  "  clean 
beasts  "  was  to  be  eaten,  such  as  that  of  the  ox,  the  sheep, 
the  goat,  the  deer,  etc.  See  Leviticus  11  and  Deuteron- 
omy 14. 

But  for  all.  this  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  flesh  of 
animals  is  not  a  natural  diet  for  man,  nor  does  it  consti- 
tute the  most  healthful  food.  Of  this  it  may  be  truly  said 
as  Christ  said  of  the  granting  of  a  writing  of  divorcement, 
it  was  suffered  because  of  the  "  hardness  "  of  their  hearts, 
"  but  from  the  beginning  it  was  not  so."  Matt.  19 :  8.  It 
was  never  intended  that  man  should  take  the  life  of  any 
innocent,  living  creature. 

Meat  eating  tends  to  excite  the  passions.  This  is  seei^ 
in  the  animal  kingdom.  The  animals  that  are  mild,  patient, 
and  docile  are  generally  herbivorous,  such  as  the  cow,  the 
sheep,  the  horse ;  while  the  excitable,  quick-tempered,  and 
ferocious  animals  are  meat  eaters,  such  as  the  lion,  the 
tiger,  the  leopard.  A  meat  diet  also  tends  to  constipation, 
the  great  scourge  of  the  race. 

One  object  of  this  work,  therefore,  is  in  the  interests 
of  health  and  morality,  to  educate  people  out  of  meat  eat- 


62  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

ing  rather  than  into  it ;  and  to  supply  such  a  variety  of 
recipes  for  good,  wholesome,  palatable,  and  nutritious 
dishes,  prepared  from  natural  food  elements,  that  meat 
eating  will  be  practically  unnecessary. 

Moreover,  so  many  animals  at  the  present  time  are 
becoming  so  greatly  diseased  that  it  is  not  a  little  danger- 
ous to  eat  largely  of  their  flesh.  As  a  matter  of  safety  the 
use  of  flesh-meats  might  very  consistently  be  dispensed 
with  altogether. 

The  fact,  therefore,  that  meat  may  be  cheap,  or  that  it 
may  be  easily  or  quickly  prepared,  should  count  for  little 
with  those  who  have  the  best  interests  of  their  families  in 
view. 

From  every  standpoint  from  which  the  subject  may  be 
viewed,  the  reasons  for  discontinuing  the  use  of  flesh-meats 
are  more  imperative  now  than  ever  before. 

1.  This  is  an  age  of  disease.  Animals  are  coming  to 
be  greatly  diseased.  The  use  of  their  flesh,  therefore,  tends 
to  increase  disease  in  mankind,  and  thus  to  shorten  life. 

2.  This  is  an  age  of  intemperance.  Flesh-meats  are 
all  more  or  less  stimulating.  Their  use,  therefore,  tends  to 
increase  this  evil. 

3.  This  is  an  age  of  surfeiting.  Meat  eating  is,  to  a 
large  degree,  responsible  for  this.  A  well-known  English 
writer  on  cookery  says :  "  No  one  will  deny  that  the  foods 
we  are  apt  to  eat  too  much  of  are  those  absent  from  a 
purely  vegetarian  fare,  such  as  meat,  game,  fish,  eggs, 
etc.,  upon  which  materials  the  culinary  art  seems  exercised 
to  tempt  us  beyond  the  satisfying  of  the  appetite." 

4.  This  is  an  age  of  vice  and  immorality.  A  meat  diet 
tends  greatly  to  increase  this  terrible  evil. 

5.  This  is  an  age  of  violence  and  murder.  The  practise 
of  killing  and  eating  animals  tends  to  harden  men's  hearts, 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  63 

to  destroy  their  finer  sensibilities,  and  thus  to  increase  vio- 
lence and  crime. 

In  the  beginning  God  gave  man  no  flesh  foods  to  eat. 
And  after  the  Exodus,  when  he  had  his  own  way  with  his 
own  people,  he  gave  them  no  flesh  to  eat.  Before  taking 
them  into  the  promised  land,  for  forty  years  he  fed  them 
on  "manna,"  a  purely  vegetarian  food.  Ex.  16:31;  Num. 
11:7,  8.  And  when  they  "  fell  a  lusting,"  and  said,  "  Who 
shall  give  us  flesh  to  eat  ?  "  he  was  displeased  with  them, 
and,  with  the  giving  of  the  quails,  brought  a  great  plague 
upon  them.     Numbers   11 ;   Ps.   78:18-31. 

In  the  New  Testament,  the  apostle,  referring  to  this 
experience,  warns  Christians  against  falling  into  the  same 
error.  "  Now  these  things,"  he  says,  "  were  our  examples, 
to  the  intent  we  should  not  lust  after  evil  things,  as  they 
also  lusted.  .  .  .  And  they  are  written  for  our  admoni- 
tion, upon  whom  the  ends  of  the  world  are  come."  i  Cor. 
10:5-11. 

Evidently,  therefore,  meat  eating  is  not  in  harmony 
with  God's  original  plan.  And  it  must  be  that  the  nearer 
we  bring  ourselves  into  harmony  with  that  plan,  the  better 
it  will  be  for  us. 

To  some  it  may  seem  difficult  to  give  up  the  use  of 
meat.  But  in  this,  as  in  all  reformatory  work,  much  de- 
pends upon  the  mind.  Let  the  correct  principle  be  first 
assented  to ;  then,  step  by  step,  let  the  practise  be  brought 
into  conformity  to  the  principle,  making  changes  gradually, 
if  necessary,  leaving  off  the  meat  dishes  as  others  more 
wholesome  can  be  substituted.  We  should  cultivate  a  love 
for  that  which  we  know  to  be  good  and  healthful. 

To  assist  those  who  desire  to  make  this  dietetic  reform, 
a  few  recipes  are  here  given  which  will  be  found  to  be 
good  substitutes  for  meats. 


64  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

VEGETABLE  AND  LENTIL  STEW 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  lentils  in  a  cup  of  cbld  water  for  an 
hour;  then  put  to  cook  in  three  cups  of  hot  water  with  one 
turnip,  three  or  four -medium-sized  potatoes,  a  small  onion,  and 
a  stalk  or  two  of  celery,  all  cut  into  small  pieces.  Stew  for 
about  half  an  hour,  or  until  well  done,  and  the  water  quite 
absorbed.    Season  with  salt,  and  serve  with  brown  sauce. 

VEGETABLE  HASH 

Boil  separately  in  a  small  quantity  of  water,  three  or  four 
medium-sized  potatoes  sliced  fine,  two  turnips,  one  carrot,  and 
an  onion,  all  cut  into  fine  pieces;  when  done,  drain,  and  turn  all 
together  into  a  saucepan;  season  with  salt,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  dry,  powdered  sage,  a  half  cup  of  sweet  cream,  or  the  same 
quantity  of  milk,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  heat  to  boil- 
ing; then  stir  in  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour 
rubbed  to  a  paste  in  a  little  cold  water,  cook  a  few  minutes 
longer,  and  serve  hot. 

POTATO  ROLLS 

Take  two  potatoes,  one  turnip,  a  small  onion,  a  stalk  of  cel- 
ery, and  a  little  powdered  sage;  chop  all  into  very  fine  pieces 
and  mix  well  together,  adding  salt  as  desired.  Make  a  paste  as 
for  pies,  roll  out  rather  thin,  cut  into  squares,  and  place  on 
each  square  as  much  of  the  mixture  as  it  will  hold;  wet  the 
edges,  and  fold  up  as  a  sausage  roll,  pressing  the  dough  together 
at  the  ends,  place  in  a  pan  and  bake  from  thirty  to  forty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven.     Serve  hot.     Very  nice. 

BREAD    STEAK 

Dip  slices  of  stale  bread  or  toast  in  a  little  milk  or  cream 
to  slightly  soften;  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt;  beat  up  an  egg 
or  two,  dip  in  the  slices,  place  in  a  hot  frying-pan  with  a  little 
butter,  and  brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  with  brown  sauce. 

FORCEMEAT    FRITTERS 

Rub  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  two  cupfuls  of  fine 
breads  crumbs,  adding  a  little  chopped  parsley  or  other  herb 
flavoring,  and  season  with  salt;  then  add  one  cup  of  thin  cream 
or  rich  milk,  and  three  eggs  beaten  separately.  Stir  well,  and 
bake  in  fritters,  in  a  hot  frying-pan,  or  on  a  griddle,  rubbed 
with  a  little  butter,  browning  lightly  on  both  sides.  Serve  with 
brown  sauce. 

"PRAIRIE"   FISH 

Cut  thick,  cold,  corn-meal  mush  into  slices  about  half  an  inch 
thick;  roll  in  flour,  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  a  hot,  buttered 
frying-pan;  or  brush  with  thick,  sweet  cream,  and  brown  in  the 
oven. 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  65 

BOILED    MACARONI 

If  dusty,  wipe  with  a  dry  cloth  instead  of  washing,  then  take 
a  cupful  broken  into  small  pieces,  and  put  to  cook  in  boiling, 
salted  water;  cook  until  tender,  adding  more  hot  water  occa- 
sionally if  necessary.  When  done,  drain,  and  serve  hot  with  a 
little  cream;  or  pour  over  a  pint  of  milk,  heat  to  boiling,  and 
stir  in  the  yolk  of  one  well-beaten  egg  and  a  little  salt;  or  omit 
the  egg,  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

PEANUT   SAUSAGE 

Thoroughly  mix  to  a  cream  one  level  tablespoonful  of  pea- 
nut butter  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  then  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  minced  onion  or  powdered  sage;  mix  all 
well  together,  form  into  small  cakes  with  the  hands,  and  place 
in  an  oiled,  heated  frying-pan  till  nicely  browned,  turning  and 
browning  on  both  sides.  Place  on  a  platter,  and  garnish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  with  brown  sauce,  No.  2,  page  78. 
Very  tasty. 

PEAS   PUREE 

Soak  a  cupful  or  two,  or  as  many  as  needed,  of  split  peas 
overnight  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  wash,  drain,  and  put 
to  cook  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  slowly.  When  very  tender, 
and  quite  dry,  mash  smooth,  season  with  salt  and  a  little  sweet 
cream.     Serve  hot. 

STEWED    SALSIFY,   OR   VEGETABLE    OYSTERS 

Wash,  scrape,  cut  into  slices  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  in 
thickness,  and  drop  at  once  into  cold  water  to  prevent  discolor- 
ing. Then  put  to  cook  in  an  enameled  saucepan,  in  a  small 
quantity  of  boiling  water,  about  equal  parts  of  water  and  sal- 
sify, adding  a  little  salt.  Cook  from  twenty  to  fifty  minutes, 
according  to  age,  and  when  tender  add  a  little  more  water  if 
at  all  dry,  a  cupful  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes.  Have  ready  in  a  dish  some  slices  of  toasted  bread  cut 
in  halves,  pour  over  the  salsify,  and  serve. 

LENTIL   RISSOLES 

Take  equal  quantities  of  well-cooked  brown  lentils  and  cold 
boiled  potatoes  and  mash  well  together;  then  add  one  third  that 
amount  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a  teaspoonful  each  of  powdered 
sage  and  minced  onion,  and  a  little  salt.  Dissolve  a  teaspoonful 
of  nut  butter  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water^  and  add  to  the 
mixture.  Mix  all  well  together,  press  into  an  oiled  tin,  cut  into 
squares  with  a  knife,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes.     Serve  hot. 


Food  should  be  prepared  with  simplicity,  yet  with  a  nicety 
which  will  invite  the  appetite. 

There  should  not  be  many  kinds  at  any  one  meal,  but  all 
meals  should  not  be  composed  of  the  same  kinds  of  food  with- 
out variation. 

The  mother  should  study  to  set  a  simple  yet  nutritious  diet 
before  her  family. —  Mrs.  E.  G.  White. 

):^     ^     ^      . 


BOILED    EGGS 

If  desired  to  have  the  white  set,  but  the  yolk  a  liquid,  boil 
eggs  three  minutes;  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  leave  them 
in  the  hot  water  a  moment  or  two  to  set  the  whites.  The  water 
should  be  boiling  when  the  eggs  are  dropped  in. 

If  desired  to  have  the  yolks  dry  and  mealy,  and  at  the  same 
time  the  whites  not  hard,  tough,  and  leathery,  place  the  eggs 
in  boiling  water,  then  let  simmer  in  water  a  little  below  the 
boiling-point,  or  at  a  temperature  not  above  165°  Fahrenheit, 
for  about  twenty  minutes.     Eggs  are  best  cooked  thus. 

For  garnishing  salads,  etc.,  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  then 
immediately  place  a  moment  in  cold  water  to  prevent  the 
whites  becoming  discolored,  and  to  make  the  shells  remove 
easily. 

POACHED   EGGS 

Put  into  a  shallow  pan  as  much  hot  water  as  will  cover  the 
eggs  well.  A  tablespoonful  of  lemon-juice  may  be  added  to  the 
water  to  make  the  eggs  white.  Break  the  eggs  one  at  a  time 
into  a  cup  and  slip  gently  into  the  water,  which  should  not 
boil,  but  only  simmer.  Let  stand  for  about  five  minutes,  or 
until  the  white  is  firm,  but  not  hard,  and  the  yolk  enveloped  in 
a  film  of  white.  Remove  each  egg  with  a  skimmer,  or  large 
spoon,  drain,  trim  the  edges,  and  serve  in  egg  saucers,  or  on 
toast.  Make  a  thin  cream  sauce  and  pour  around  them  if  desired. 
66 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  67 

SCRAMBLED    EGGS 

For  each  egg  allow  two  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  or 
milk.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  dish,  beat  lightly  with  a  spoon, 
add  a  little  salt,  drop  into  the  boiling  water  or  milk,  and  stir 
briskly  until  set,  but  soft.     They  are  nice  thus  served  on  toast. 

STEAMED     EGGS 

Break  the  eggs  into  egg  dishes  or  oiled  patty-pans,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  steam  over  boiling  water  until  the  whites  are  set 
and  a  film  covers  the  yolk.     Serve  with  or  without  toast. 

SCALLOPED    EGGS 

Boil  five  or  six  eggs  for  twenty  minutes;  remove  the  shells, 
and  cut  the  eggs  into  thin  slices;  put  a  layer  of  grated  or  fine 
bread  crumbs  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the 
sliced  eggs;  sprinkle  with  salt,  then  add  another  layer  of 
bread  crumbs,  then  another  of  egg,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is 
filled,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  for  the  top.  Heat  a  cup  of 
milk  to  boiling,  and  pour  over  the  scallop;  sprinkle  over  a  few 
more  crumbs,  and  bake  until  slightly  browned. 

BAKED    EGGS 

Break  the  required  number  of  eggs  into  a  shallow  baking 
pan,  or  small  patty-pans,  previously  buttered,  to  prevent  stick- 
ing. Season  with  salt,  and  bake  until  set.  Remove  to  a  warm 
platter,  and  serve  at  once. 

EGG   SANDWICHES 

Mash  the  yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  a  sprinkle  of  salt, 
and  a  little  chopped  cress,  smooth  and  fine;  spread  this  on  thin 
slices  of  bread  slightly  buttered,  and  press  together. 

EGGS    AND     TOMATO     SAUCE  ^ 

Melt  a  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  deep  dish,  break  in  carefully 
the  number  of  eggs  desired,  cind  place  on  the  stove  until  they 
begin  to  set;  then  pour  over  them  a  hot  tomato  sauce,  made 
after  directions  on  page  77. 

EGGS    ON    TOAST 

Boil  three  eggs  for  twenty  minutes.  Put  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  into  a  frying-pan.  When  hot,  stir  in  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  gradually,  to 
avoid  lumps  forming,  one  cupful  of  milk.  Add  the  whites  of  the 
three  eggs,  chopped  fine.  When  hot,  pour  over  three  or  four 
slices  of  moistened  toast.  Put  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  or 
vegetable  press  over  the  toast,  garnish  with  bits  of  parsley,  and 
serve  hot. 


Simple  diet  is  best;  for  many  dishes  bring  many  diseases. — 
Pliny. 

PLAIN     OMELET 

Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  three  eggs  separately;  allow 
one  tablespoonful  of  milk  to  each  egg.  Stir  the  milk  and  yolks 
of  the  eggs  well  together  and  season  with  salt;  then  with  a 
spoon  carefully  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 
Turn  all  into  a  hot  frying-pan,  sufficiently  buttered  to  prevent 
sticking.  Cook  rather  quickly,  being  careful  not  to  burn.  Care- 
fully lift  the  edges  of  the  omelet  while  cooking,  with  a  knife  or 
spoon,  that  it  may  be  equally  cooked.  When  well  set,  double 
one  part  over  the  other,  remove  to  a  warm  dish,  and  serve  at 
once,  as  an  omelet  is  not  so  good  when  cold.  It  should  be  very 
light  and  tender,  and  nicely  browned. 

FRUIT     OMELET 

Prepare  as  above,  spreading  a  thin  layer  of  any  kind  of  jelly 
over  one  half  before  folding  the  other  half  over  it;  add  a 
sprinkle  of  sugar  if  desired. 

BREAD     OMELET 

For  each  person  allow  one  egg,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  grated  bread  crumbs;  beat  well 
together,  and  add  a  little  salt,  butter  a  deep  plate  or  shallow  pan, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  well  set. 


MACARONI     OMELET 

Take  a  small  handful  of  macaroni  broken  into  small  pieces, 
drop  into  hot  water,  and  boil  until  tender;  drain.  Heat  a  cupful 
of  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  two  even  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  until  thickened;  re- 
move from  the  fire,  add  the  macaroni,  a  few  bits  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  four  eggs  well  beaten;  season  with  salt;  pour  all 
into  a  hot,  buttered  dish,  sprinkle  with  a  small  handful  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  place  in  the  oven  till  nicely  browned;  then  turn 
out  on  a  hot,  flat  dish,  and  serve  with  brown  sauce. 
68 


The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  eating  it. 

Eat  to  live,  but  do  not  live  merely  to  eat. 

Health  is  the  greatest  of  all  possessions,  and  'tis  a  maxim 
with  me,  that  a  hale  cobbler  is  better  than  a  sick  king. —  Bicher- 
staff. 

In  order  to  preserve  health,  temperance  in  all  things  is  nec- 
essary—  temperance  in  labor,  temperance  in  eating  and  drink- 
ing.— "  Christian  Temperance." 

)^        )^        «e' 

SAGO    PUDDING 

To  five  cups  of  boiling  water  add  a  cup  of  sago,  previously 
soaked  in  a  cup  of  cold  water  for  twenty  minutes,  two  thirds 
of  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  a  half  cup  of  well-washed  raisins.  Cook 
all  together  till  transparent,  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and 
serve  with  cream  or  boiled  custard  sauce. 

TAPIOCA     PUDDING 

Soak  one  cupful  of  tapioca  overnight  in  a  pint  of  water.  In 
the  morning-  add  one  quart  of  milk,  stirring  gently,  and  boil 
about  twenty  minutes;  then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well 
beaten,  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  longer; 
pour  into  an  earthen  dish,  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla;  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  four 
eggs  beaten  stiff,  and  four  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  place  in  a  slow  oven  to  brown  slightly.     Serve  cold. 

RICE    PUDDING 

Take  a  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  and  a  half  cup  of  washed  raisins, 
and  mix  together  in  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  well  together  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  two  cupfuls  of  milk,  and 
pour  over  the  raisins  and  rice.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 

69 


70  A   Friend  in   the  Kitchen 

the  custard  is  just  set.     If  left  in  too  long,  the  milk  becomes 
watery.     This  is  a  good  way  to  use  up  left-over  rice. 

CORNSTARCH    PUDDING 

Take  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch  and  stir  smooth  in 
a  little  cold  water;  over  this  pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water; 
then  stir  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiflf,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Steam  fifteen  minutes, 
or  cook  slowly  until  thickened.  Serve  cold  with  a  sauce  pre- 
pared as  follows:  Heat  one  cup  of  milk  to  boiling;  beat  to- 
gether the  yolks  of  the  three  eggs  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
until  creamy,  and  stir  into  the  milk;  boil  until  smooth,  and  re- 
move from  the  fire  at  once.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and 
allow  to  cool. 

BREAD    PUDDING,    NO.    1 

Take  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  and  pour  over  them  one 
quart  of  milkj  then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  bake  in  the  oven.  When  done, 
spread  the  top  with  jelly  or  marmalade,  and  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  four  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  and 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar.  Brown  slightly,  and 
serve  warm  or  cold,  with  or  without  sauce  or  cream,  as  pre- 
ferred. 

BREAD    PUDDING,    NO.   2 

Cut  stale  bread  into  cubes,  and  moisten  with  milk  or  water; 
then  pour  over  a  mixture  of  eggs,  sugar,  and  milk,  allowing  one 
e.gg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  milk.  Steam 
or  bake.     Currants  or  raisins  may  be  added. 

COLD     PEACH    PUDDING 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  into  strips,  and  line  a  pudding  basin 
or  round  mold  as  neatly  as  possible.  Then  fill  the  center  of  the 
mold  with  stewed  fresh  or  canned  peaches,  slightly  warmed, 
add  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  place  a  slice  of  bread  over  the  fruit. 
Pour  over  enough  of  the  sirup  or  fruit  juice  to  soak  all  the 
bread.  Take  a  saucer  or  plate  about  the  size  of  the  mold,  and 
place  it  upside  down  on  top,  over  the  pudding,  and  put  a  heavy 
weight  on  the  plate.  Let  stand  overnight,  and  in  the  morning 
turn  into  a  glass  dish  for  the  table.  Cut  into  slices,  and  serve 
with  milk  or  cream.  Raspberries  or  blackberries  may  be  used 
instead   of   peaches. 

PRUNE    WHIP 

Wash  thoroughly  one-half  pound  of  prunes  and  soak  for  an 
hour  in  cold  water  enough  to  cover;  cook  gently  in  the  same 
water  until  the  prunes  are  tender,  and  the  juice  is  nearly  ab- 
sorbed.    Then  rub   through   a   colander.     When   cold,  add   two 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  71 

tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Stir  all  well  together,  pile  lightly 
in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  about  ten  minutes,  or  until 
a  delicate  brown.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  boiled  custard 
sauce.     See  pages  yg  and  78. 

FIG    PUDDING 

Take  half  a  pound  of  finely  chopped  figs,  one  cupful  of  bread 
crumbs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  all  well  together,  turn  into  a  double  boiler, 
slightly  buttered,  or  into  a  saucepan  placed  in  boiling  water, 
and  boil  about  an  hour.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

RICE    LEMON    PUDDING 

To  three-fourths  cupful  of  well-washed  rice,  add  three  cup- 
fuls  of  boiling  water  and  a  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  until  tender.  When  done,  allow  to  cool,  then 
add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  one  cup  of  milk;  stir  together,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
set.  When  done,  cover  the  top  with  a  meringue  made  with 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  and 
the  juice  of  one  lemon;  place  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 
Serve  either  warm  or  cold. 

RICE    APPLE    PUDDING 

Boil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  well-washed  rice  in  half  a  pint  of 
milk  until  soft;  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
sugar  to  sweeten.  Make  a  wall  with  the  rice  around  a  dish;  fill 
the  center  of  the  dish  with  stewed  apples,  and  cover  the  whole 
with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar,  and  brown  lightly  in  the  oven;  serve  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream. 

CRACKER    PUDDING 

Put  three  cupfuls  of  rich  milk  into  a  pudding  dish;  sprinkle 
in  two  cupfuls  of  crackers,  first  heated  in  the  oven  till  crisp,  but 
not  browned,  and  afterward  crushed  fine  with  a  rolling-pin. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  till  light;  then  mix  with  one-half 
cup  of  sugar,  and  stir  in  the  crackers  and  milk;  add  one  cup  of 
well-washed  currants  or  seedless  raisins,  and  flavor  with  grated 
lemon  peel  if  desired.  Bake  in  the  oven  until  set;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  till  stiff,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 
and  spread  this  over  the  top  of  the  pudding;  return  to  the  oven 
till  a  delicate  brown. 

ALMOND    RICE    PUDDING 

Put  one  cupful  each  of  well-washed  rice  and  raisins  into  a 
pudding  dish  with  six  cupfuls  of  almond  milk,  one-third  cup  of 


72  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

sugaf,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  tender, 
stirring  up  several  times  during  the  first  ten  minutes.  Serve 
cold. 

CORNSTARCH     BLANC-MANGE 

To  one  quart  of  milk  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and 
heat  just  to  boiling;  then  stir  in  five  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
statch  mixed  thoroughly  with  two  well-beaten  eggs;  flavor  with 
lemon  or  vanilla,  and  pour  into  cups,  previously  wet  in  cold 
water,  to  mold.  Place  a  mold  of  jelly  in  the  center  of  a  platter, 
and  arrange  the  molds  of  blanc-mange  around  it.  A  portion  of 
the  blanc-mange  may  be  colored  and  flavored  with  chocolate, 
so  that  each  alternate  mold  on  the  platter  will  be  brown.  Serve 
with  cream. 

APPLE    BATTER    PUDDING 

Pare  and  slice  six  medium-sized  cooking  apples  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish,  adding  sugar  to  sweeten.  Make  a  batter 
as  follows:  Beat  three  eggs  to  a  foam;  then  add  five  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sifted  flour,  sprinkling  it  in  while  beating  vigorously,  and 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Stir  in  gradually  enough  milk  to 
make  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream,  beat  well,  and  pour 
over  the  apples,  and  bake  until  done.  Serve  with  cream  or  rich 
milk. 

APPLE    TRIFLE 

Pare,  quarter,  core,  and  stew  six  or  eight  apples  to  a  pulp, 
adding  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  When  done,  add 
sugar  to  sweeten,  and  turn  into  a  deep  glass  dish.  Heat  a  pint 
of  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  three  well-beaten  eggs,  saving  out  the 
white  of  one,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  cook  until 
thickened.  When  cold  pour  over  the  apples  in  the  dish.  Beat 
the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  for  a  moment,  turn,  then  remove,  and 
use  to  ornament  the  pudding. 

APPLES    WITH     TAPIOCA 

Soak  a  cupful  of  tapioca  in  two  cupfuls  of  cold  water  for  an 
hour;  then  spread  on  a  clean  white  cloth,  and  place  some  pared 
and  sliced  apples,  sugar,  and  grated  lemon  peel  in  the  center; 
tie  up  the  cloth  loosely  so  that  the  tapioca  will  surround  the 
apples,  and  put  into  boiling  water;  boil  half  an  hour,  or  until 
done;  then  turn  out  the  whole  into  a  dish.  Serve  with  boiled 
custard,  whipped  cream,  or  fruit  jelly. 

FRUIT   TAPIOCA 

Cook  three-fourths  cup  of  tapioca  in  four  cups  of  water 
until  smooth  and  transparent.  Stir  into  it  lightly  a  pint  of  fresh 
or  canned  strawberries,  raspberries,  or  blackberries,  adding 
sugar  as  required.  Serve  cold  with  cream,  or  a  pint  of  fruit 
sauce. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  7Z 

PEACHES   AND    RICE 

Soak  a  cup  of  rice  in  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  water  for 
an  hour;  then  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  little  salt,  turn  into  a 
double  boiler,  cover,  and  steam  for  an  hour,  stirring  occasion- 
ally for  the  first  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  When  done,  pour  into 
a  mold  to  cool,  then  turn  out  into  a  glass  dish.  Stew  fresh  or 
dried  peaches  in  halves,  and  arrange  them  around  the  rice;  pour 
the  sirup  or  juice  over  the  whole. 

RICE   WITH   RAISINS 

Wash  and  put  to  cook  rice  as  directed  above;  after  the  rice 
■  has  begun  to  swell,  add  a  cupful  of  well-washed  raisins.    When 
done,  serve  with  fruit  juice,  milk,  or  cream. 

RICE   WITH    FIGS 

Soak  and  cook  the  rice  as  directed  for  peaches  and  rice. 
Wash  a  small  quantity  of  figs,  and  stew  with  a  little  sugar  until 
thoroughly  done;  serve  a  spoonful  of  the  figs  with  each  dish 
of  rice.  The  fig  sauce  should  be  so  thick  that  it  will  not  run 
over  the  rice. 

APPLE    RICE 

Fill  a  pudding  dish  half  full  with  tart  apples,  pared,  quar- 
tered, cored,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar.  Wash  thoroughly  half 
a  cupful  of  rice  and  sprinkle  over  apples  in  pudding  dish.  Cover, 
steam  until  the  rice  is  tender,  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

APPLES   WITH    RAISINS 

Pare,  quarter,  and  core  half  a  dozen  good  cooking  apples. 
Wash,  a  small  cup  of  raisins,  and  put  to  cook  in  a  quart  of 
boiling  water.  When  they  have  begun  to  swell,  add  the  apples, 
a  little  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  cook  until  tender. 

COCOANUT   PUDDING 

To  one  pint  of  milk,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  desiccated 
cocoanut,  and  heat  to  boiling;  remove  the  cocoanut  by  turning 
through  a  strainer;  then  add  to  the  milk  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
and  one-half  cup  of  fine  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  cool  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Turn  into  a 
pudding  dish,  set  it  inside  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  until  set,  but  not  watery.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  spread  on  the 
top  of  the  pudding;  return  to  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

CHERRY   PUDDING 

Soak  a  half  cup  of  tapioca,  and  cook  in  a  pint  of  water  until 
transparent.  Have  ready  in  a  pudding  dish  a  pint  of  fresh, 
pitted  cherries;  sprinkle  them  with  sugar,  then  pour  over  them 


74 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


the  cooked  tapioca,  and  bake  for  half  an   hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Serve  with  or  without  cream. 

MINUTE   PUDDING 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  into  the  inner  vessel  of  a  double 
boiler,  or  into  an  ordinary  saucepan  greased  with  a  little  butter, 
and  heat  to  boiling;  then  stir  in  two  small  cups  of  flour,  sifting 
it  in  a  little  at  a  time,  and  stirring  briskly,  that  no  lumps  may 
be  formed.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  two  well- 
beaten  eggs,  stir  a  moment,  and  serve  at  once  with  cream,  and 
a  little  sugar  if  desired.    If  preferred,  the  eggs  may  be  omitted. 

ARROWROOT    BLANC-MANGE 

Heat  a  pint  of  milk  to  boiling;  then  stir  in  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  rubbed  smooth  in  a  half  cup  of  cold 
milk,  and  a  half  cup  of  sugar;  cook'  for  a  few  minutes  until 
thickened,  stirring  well,  and  pour  into  cups  or  molds  previously 
wet  in  cold  water,  to  cool.  Serve  with  stewed  fruit  or  fruit 
juice. 

RICE     SNOW  WITH    JELLY 

Cook  one  cupful  of  rice  in  milk  until  tender,  adding  a  little 
salt.  When  done,  pile  loosely  in  a  dish;  beat  the  whites  of  two 
or  three  eggs  till  stiff,  mix  with  a  half  cupful  of  sugar,  and  pile 
in  heaps  like  snow  over  the  rice;  ornament  with  bits  of  jelly, 
and,  if  in  season,  put  a  circle  of  fresh  berries  around  the  edge 
when  ready  to  serve. 


Simplicity  is  the  highest  art. 
Many    dishes    have    induced    many   dis- 
eases.—  Seneca. 

Study     simplicity     in    the     number    of 
dishes,  and  variety  in  the  character  of  the 
meals. 
It  is  not  the  chief  end  of  man  to  gratify  his  appetite." 
)^      ^      ^ 
CREAM   MOLD 

Heat  two  cups  of  milk  to  boiling;  then  add  one-half  cup  of 
sugar,  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  rice,  wet  in  a  little 
cold  milk;  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  stir  well  until  it  thickens; 
pour  into  cups  or  molds  previously  wet  in  cold  water,  until  set, 
then  turn  out  on  a  large  plate  or  into  little  dishes.  Have  ready 
a  cup  of  whipped  cream,  and  put  some  over  each  mold  with  a 
bit  of  jelly  in  the  center  of  each,  or  serve  with  fruit  sauce. 

BOILED    CUSTARD 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar  into  the 
inner  vessel  of  a  double  boiler,  let  heat  to  boiling,  then  stir  in 
slowly  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk;  add  any  flavoring 
desired.     Stir  well,  and  when  well  set,  turn  into  a  dish  to  cool. 

FLOATING   ISLAND 

Put  a  pint  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler;  let  heat  to  boiling, 
then  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  mixed  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Stir  well,  and  when  done  turn  into  the 
dish  from  which  it  is  to  be  served.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiff  frot"h,  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  for  .a  few  seconds  into  a 
pan  of  hot  water;  let  them  stand  for  a  moment,  then  turn  over, 
but  do  not  allow  them  to  harden.  Remove  with  a  skimmer  or 
spoon,  and  put  as  islands  on  the  top  of  the  custard;  let  cool, 
then  place  bits  of  jelly  on  top  of  the  islands. 

APPLE    FLOAT 

To  one  pint  of  nice  stewed  apples,  add  the  whites  of  three 
eggs   beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and   four  tablespoonfuls  of  white 

75 


76  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

sugar;  beat  all  together  until  very  stiff.  Have  a  glass  dish  filled 
with  boiled  custard  made  with  two  cups  of  milk,  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  a  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  flavoring  if  desired.  Pile  the  apples  on  top,  and 
serve. 

BANANA    CUSTARD 

Slice  six  bananas  into  a  deep  dish.  Heat  one  pint  of  milk  to 
boiling;  beat  together  one  tgg,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and 
one  dessertspoonful  of  cornstarch  blended  with  a  little  milk, 
and  stir  into  the  hot  milk;  let  boil  up  once  or  twice,  then  pour 
over  the  bananas,  stirring  them  in. 

ORANGE    CUSTARD 

Remove  the  peel  from  three  large,  sweet  oranges,  cut  in 
halves,  and  rub  through  a  colander.  Heat  one  pint  of  milk  to 
boiling,  then  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  milk,  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs.  When 
thickened,  allow  to  cool,  then  stir  in  the  oranges.  Beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  spread  on  the  top  of  the  custard;  place  in  the  oven 
till  slightly  brown.     Serve  cold. 

PINEAPPLE    CUSTARD 

Make  a  custard  of  one  quart  of  milk,  two  thirds  of  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  four  eggs :  heat  the  milk  to  boiling  in  a  double 
boiler;  then  add  the  eggs  and  sugar  beaten  together.  Stir  well, 
and  when  done  set  aside  to  cool.  Have  a  nice,  ripe  pineapple 
picked  to  pieces  with  a  fork,  and  sprinkled  with  sugar.  Just  be- 
fore serving  the  custard,  stir  in  the  pineapple. 

TAPIOCA    CREAM 

Wash  and  soak  four  even  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  cup 
of  water  until  soft;  then  add  a  little  salt  and  a  pint  of  milk, 
and  heat  to  boiling  in  a  double  boiler;  add  the  yolks  of  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  and  one-half  cup  of  sugar;  cook  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  turn  into  an  earthen  dish;  when  cool,  spread  over 
the  top  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoon- 
fols.of  sugar,  adding  vanilla  to  flavor;  place  in  the  oven  to 
brown  slightly. 

RICE   CUSTARD 

Wash  one-half  cup  of  rice,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  in 
three  cups  of  water  or  milk,  or  equal  parts  of  each,  until 
tender,  adding  a  little  salt;  then  add,  while  still  on  the  range, 
one  pint  of  milk,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  and  five 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar;  stir  gently,  and  cook  only  until  thick- 
ened. Then  turn  into  a  pudding  dish.  Beat  well  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the  custard; 
place  in  a  slow  oven  to  brown  slightly. 


Rich  sauces  and  highly-seasoned  dishes  provoke  thirst. — ■ 
Selected. 

Rich  sauces  are  even  worse  than  heaping  several  meats  upon 
each  other. —  Pliny. 

A  wrong  course  of  eating  or  drinking  destroys  health,  and 
with  it  the  sweetness   of  life. — "  Christian   Temperance." 

'iH      ^      ^ 

SAUCES  FOR  VEGETABLES 

TOMATO    SAUCE 

Cook  one  pint  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  with  a  little  onion, 
salt,  and  herb-flavor  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  strain  through  a 
colander,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  browned  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter. 

CREAM   SAUCE 

Melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire, 
stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,-  and  cook  about  one  minute, 
but  do  not  let  it  brown.  Add  one  cup  of  milk  gradually,  stirring 
constantly  to  keep  smooth  until  thickened;  cook  very  slowly, 
or  steam  over  hot  water,  for  ten  minutes;  add  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  and  serve.. 

LENTIL   SAUCE 

Rub  a  cupful  of  cooked  lentils  through  a  colander  into  a 
saucepan;  add  a  cup  of  milk  and  a  little  salt.  When  boiling, 
stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  browned  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a 
little  cold  milk.  Add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  if  desired.  For 
browned  flour,  see  page  12. 

BROWN   SAUCE,   NO.   1 

Put  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan,  and  brown 
slightly;  then  pour  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  heat  to  boiling;  stir  in 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour  rubbed  to  a  paste  in  a  little 
cold  water  or  milk;  -season  with  salt,  boil  until  thickened,  and 
serve. 

77 


78  A   Friend   in   the  Kitchen 

BROWN    SAUCE,    NO.    2 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan;  when  melted, 
sprinkle  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  stirring  until  nicely- 
browned;  then  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make  of  the  con- 
sistency of  cream,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumps  from 
forming.    Add  salt  to  taste. 

PARSLEY    SAUCE 

Make  a  brown  sauce,  and  add  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley 
just  before  serving. 

EGG   AND    MILK    SAUCE 

To  a  pint  of  milk  add  a  tablespoonful  or  two  of  cream,  or  a 
teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  heat  to  boiling;  then  stir  in  one  even 
tablespoonful  of.  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water  or 
milk;  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  stir  in 
rapidly  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  one  tgg;  season  with  salt,  boil 
up,  and  serve. 

BREAD    SAUCE 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  oil  and  a  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion 
into  a  saucepan,  and  allow  to  heat,  but  not  scorch;  then  add  a 
cupful  of  rich  milk,  or  nut  milk,  and  a  little  salt.  When  heated 
nearly  to  boiling,  stir  in  one-half  cupful  of  sifted  bread  crumbs. 
Let  boil  slowly  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.  Nice  with  protose 
cutlets  or  baked  potatoes. 

MINT   SAUCE 

Take  fresh,  green  mint,  wash,  and  chop  very  fine.  Put  into  a 
glass,  and  for  each  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mint  allow  one  table- 
spoonful of  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon  diluted  with  an 
equal  amount  of  water. 

«2      )^      )^ 

SAUCES  FOR  DESSERTS 

ARROWROOT   SAUCE 

Heat  one  cup  of  water  to  boiling;  then  add  one  teaspoonful 
of  sugar,  and  one  small  tablespoonful  of  arrowroot  mixed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  stirring  briskly.  In  a  few  minutes 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  almond.  Nice 
for  puddings. 

BOILED    CUSTARD    SAUCE 

Beat  together  in  a  saucepan,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch.  Place  over  the 
fire  one  cupful  of  milk,  and  as   soon  as  it  begins  to  boil  pour 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  79 

it  over  the  eggs  in  the  saucepan.  Stir  well,  place  over  the  fire 
to  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  pour  into  a  pitcher,  and  flavor  if 
desired. 

CHOCOLATE   SAUCE 

Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  shaved  chocolate  with  two  cup- 
fuls  of  sweet  milk,  and  heat  to  boiling;  then  add  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  stirring  briskly;  boil  a  few  minutes  until 
thickened,  and  remove  from  the  fire;  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar.     Nice  with   cornstarch  blanc-mange. 

ORANGE   SAUCE 

Heat  a  pint  of  water  to  boiling,  and  thicken  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch;  add  a  cupful  of  orange  juice  extracted 
from  good  sweet  oranges,  a  small  piece  of  the  yellow  rind  for 
flavoring,  and  sugar  to  sweeten;  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg  may 
be  added  if   desired;    remove   the    orange    rind   before    serving. 

LEMON   SAUCE 

To  a  pint  of  boiling  water  add  a  slice  or  two  of  lemon,  and 
thicken  with  a  small  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch;  remove  the 
lemon,  cook  a  few  minutes  until  clear,  then  add  two  thirds  of  a 
cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  a  beaten  egg  if  desired; 
boil  up,  cool,  and  serve. 

FRUIT   SAUCE 

Obtain  the  juice  of  raspberries,  strawberries,  grapes,,  cur- 
rants, or  any  larger  fruit,  by  simmering  for  a  short  time  with  a 
little  water,  and  straining  through  a  thin  cloth;  heat  the  juice 
to  scalding,  then  slightly  thicken  with  cornstarch  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  water,  allowing  a  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch  for 
each  pint  of  juice;  cook  a  few  minutes  till  thickened,  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Three  or  four  tablespoonfuls  of  fruit  jelly 
dissolved  in  a  pint  of  hot  water  makes  a  good  substitute  for 
fruit  juice  if  the  latter  is  not  available. 

STRAWBERRY   SAUCE 

Beat  one  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter  to  a  cream.  Then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  white 
of  one  &^g  and  beat  till  very  light.  Set  in  a  cool  place,  and 
when  ready  to  serve,  add  one  pint  of  mashed  strawberries. 

WHIPPED    CREAM 

Beat  one  cup  of  cold  sweet  cream  with  a  Dover  egg-beater 
until  stiff;  then  beat  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  one-half  teaspoonful  extract  of  vanilla;  set  in  a  cool  place 
till  ready  to  serve.  Have  the  cream  cold,  and  not  too  thick,  or 
it  will  turn  to  butter  while  beating.     A  nice  sauce  for  desserts. 


"  To  keep  in  health  this  rule  is  wise, 

Eat  only  when  you  need  and  relish  food, 
Chew  thoroughly,  that  it  may  do  you  good, 
Have  it  well  cooked,  unspiced,  and  undisguised."  ' 

Food  for  repentance  —  mince  pie  eaten  late  at  night. 

He  who  eats  till  he  is  sick  must  fast  till  he  is  well. —  Selected. 

How  many  homes  are  cursed  by  discomfort  and  ill  health, 
and  thoughts  and  bitter  words,  simply  because  the  wife  does 
not  know  how  to  cook. —  The  Young  Woman. 

i^      ^      i^ 

ONE  of  the  greatest  objections  to  pies  is  that  they  are 
generally  made  too  rich.  When  a  large  amount  of 
grease  is  employed  in  making  the  crust,  and  the  filling  is 
seasoned  heavily  with  spices  and  various  condiments,  they 
can  hardly  fail  to  be  unwholesome. 

But  pies  need  not  be  made  in  this  way.  If  proper  mgre- 
dients  are  used,  and  simplicity  is  studied  in  making  them, 
there  is  no  reason  why  they  should  be  seriously  objection- 
able. 

There  are  two  styles  of  pie  in  general  use, —  one,  the 

English  style,  baked  in  a  deep  dish,  fre- 

^)     quently  with  only  a  top  crust;  the  other, 

the  American,  baked  in  a  shallow  dish, 

Pie  Dish  usually  with  two  crusts,  an  upper  and  an 

under.    Custard,  cream,  lemon,  and  pumpkin  pies,  however, 

have  only  an  under  crust.     Most  of  the  recipes  here  given 

are  for  the  shallow  pies  with  two  crusts. 

Custard,  pumpkin,  and  other  pies   in  which  milk  and 
eggs  are  used,  should  be  baked  in  a  slow  oven.     They  will 
80 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  81 

also  be  improved  if  the  milk  used  be  hot.  To  stir  beaten 
eggs  into  the  hot  milk,  add.  a  few  spoonfuls  of  cold  milk 
to  the  eggs,  then  pour  into  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time, 
stirring  well. 

The  filling  for  pies  should  always  be  prepared  before 
making  the  crust,  unless  the  crust  is  to  be  baked  first.  All 
the  material  should  be  cold,  except  for  custard  and  pumpkin 
pies,  and  should  be  put  together  quickly,  handling  as  little 
as  possible,  and  without  kneading  the  dough. 

When  the  paste  is  ready,  take  sufficient  for  one  crust, 

and  roll  out  on  a  floured  board  quickly  and  lightly  until 

about  an  eighth  of  an  inch 

©  in  thickness,    and    a   little. 

larger   than   the   pie   dish, 
Rolling^pm  ^g     .^     ^jlj     gj^j.j^j^     ^^^^ 

lifted  from  the  board.  When  rolled  thin,  flour  or  oil  the 
pie  dish,  cover  smoothly  with  the  crust,  and  fill,  adding 
sugar  as  required.  Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  sugar; 
this  thickens  the  juice  slightly,  and  prevents  the  upper  crust 
from  becoming  soggy.  For  custard  or  fruit  pies  with  wet 
fillings,  brush  the  bottom  crust  with  the  white  of  an  &gg 
before  putting  in  the  filling.  The  crust  will  then  remain 
dry  and  tender. 

If  there  is  to  be  a  top  crust,  roll  it  out  in  the  same 
manner,  and  make  a  few  ornamental  cuts 
in  the  center  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 
Wet  the  edge  of  the  lower  crust,  and  lift 
on   the   upper  crust,   pressing  the  edges  "^^ 

together  so  that  the  juice  may  not  escape.  Trim  away  the 
overhanging  portions,  and  with  the  thumb  and  fingers 
press  the  edge  into  a  scalloped  or  ornamental  wall,  as 
shown  in  the  accompanying  cut.  Especially  should  this 
be  done  when  only  an  under  crust  is  used,  that  the  pie  may 
6 


82  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

be  handled  with  greater  ease.  It  also  adds  to  the  appear- 
ance of  the  pie.  Pies  are  generally  better  eaten  the  same 
day  they  are  baked. 

J^     )ii     «« 

PLAIN   PIE   CRUST 

For  each  pie  with  two  crusts  take  two  small  cups  of  sifted 
flour,  and  work  thoroughly  into  it  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
adding  a  little  salt;  wet  with  just  sufficient  cold  water  to  make  a 
rather  stiff  dough;  mix  quickly,  roll  out  thin,  and  bake  as  soon 
as  the  pie  can  be  made.  A  good  crust  may  be  made  with  olive- 
oil,  or  fresh  cocoanut  or  vegetable  oil,  instead  of  butter,  using 
about  the  same  quantity. 

CREAM   PIE   CRUST 

Take  two  scant  cups  of  fine,  sifted  flour,  or  equal  parts  of 
fine  flour  and  Graham  flour,  add  a  little  salt,  and  moisten  with 
enough  cold,  thin  sweet  cream  to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough; 
roll  out  thin,  place  in  the  pie  dish,  fill,  and  bake  quickly. 

APPLE    PIE 

Pare,  core,  and  slice  thin,  tart  ripe  apples;  line  the  pie  dish 
with  a  crust,  and  fill  with  the  apples;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and 
add  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Cover  with  an 
upper  crust,  according  to  general  directions,  and  bake  until  a 
light  brown.  Apples  that  do  not  cook  quickly  may  be  stewed 
until  about  half  done  before  making  into  pies.  Apple  pie  when 
cold  is  very  nice  served  with  sweet  cream. 

PEACH    PIE 

Pare,  remove  stones,  and  make  the  same  as  apple  pie. 
GOOSEBERRY   PIE 

Remove  the  stems  and  blossom  ends^  wash^  and  fill  a  pie 
dish  lined  with  a  crust.  Add  a  half  cup  of  sugar,  and  sprinkle 
with  flour.  Prepare  the  upper  crust,  cover,  and  bake.  To  pre- 
vent the  juice  from  running  out  while  baking,  make  a  paste  of 
a  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  little  water,  and  brush  over  the 
edge  of  the  under  crust  before  putting  on  the  top  crust.  If 
desired,  beat  together  the  white  of  an  egg  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  fine  sugar,  and  meringue  the  top  of  the  pie  when  done; 
return  to  the  oven,  and  brown  slightly. 

RHUBARB    PIE 

Wash,  strip  off  the  skin,  and  cut  the  stalks  into  thin  slices. 
Line  a  pie  dish  with  crust,  and  fill   with  the  rhubarb.     Add  a 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  83 

half  cup  of  sugar,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  and 
sprinkle  over  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Wet  the  edges  of  the 
lower  crust,  place  on  a  prepared  top  crust,  press  the  edges  to- 
gether, trim,  and  bake.  Equal  portions  of  rhubarb  and  apples 
may  be  used  in  the  place  of  all  rhubarb. 

RASPBERRY    PIE 

Look  over  the  raspberries,  line  a  pie  dish  with  a  crust  and 
fill  with  berries;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  water, 
sprinkle  with  flour,  and  proceed  as  with  gooseberry  pie. 

BLACKBERRY   PIE 

Look  over  about  one  pint  of  blackberries,  and  proceed  the 
same  as  for  raspberry  pie.  Blueberry  pie  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way. 

CHERRY    PIE 

Take  nice  ripe  cherries,  remove  the  stones  if  preferred,  and 
make  the  same  as  raspberry  pie,  adding  sugar  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit. 

DRIED    CURRANT   PIE 

Wash  the  currants  in  two  or  three  waters  through  a  colander 
to  remove  sand  and  grit,  and  stew;  when  cool,  line  a  pie  dish 
with  crust,  and  fill  with  the  currants,  pouring  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  the  juice;  add  a  little  sugar,  then  sprinkle  over  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  cover  with  a  crust,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  till  done.     It  should  not  be  made  too  dry. 

PRUNE   PIE 

Wash  the  prunes  well  in  warm  water,  rinse,  soak,  and  put 
to  cook  without  draining,  cover,  and  stew  slowly  from  one  to 
two  hours.  When  done,  put  through  a  colander  to  remove 
stones  and  skins.  Bake  with  two  crusts.  Very  little  sugar  will 
be  needed.  If  the  pulp  is  quite  juicy,  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
may  be  sprinkled  over. 

LEMON   PIE 

To  one  cupful  of  boiling  water,  add  one  heaping  tablespoon- 
ful of  cornstarch  blended  with  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  up, 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar;  let 
cool,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Bake  with  under  crust  only;  when 
done,  meringue  the  top  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stifif;  return  to  a  slow  oven  to  brown 
slightly. 

DRIED    APPLE    PIE 

Take  good  dried  apples,  wash,  and  soak  for  several  hours,  or 
overnight,  in  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them.     Stew,  with- 


84  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

out  draining,  until  soft;  mash  fine,  adding  lemon  flavoring  and 
sugar  to  sweeten;  bake  with  two  crusts,  or  ornament  with  strips 
or  lattice-work  crust  on  top.  A  few  stewed  blackberries  or 
raspberries  may  be  added  to  the  apples. 

DRIED    PEACH    PIE 

Stew  until  soft,  mash  to  a  pulp,  add  sugar  to  sweeten,  and 
make  the  same  as  dried  apple  pie.  If  desired,  one-third  apricots 
may  be  used. 

RAISIN    PIE 

For  three  pies,  stew  one  pound  of  raisins  for  nearly  an  hour 
in  enough  water  to  cover  them;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and 
a  small  cup  of  white  sugar.  Line  the  pie  dishes  with  crust,  fill 
with  raisins  and  a  little  of  the  juice,  and  sprinkle  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  over  each  pie.  Bake  with  two  crusts.  For 
lemon  raisin  pie  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

CREAM      PIE 

Put  one  cup  of  milk  to  scald  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  to- 
gether two  eggs,  leaving  out  the  white  of  one,  two  even  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  stirred  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When  the  milk  is  scald- 
ing hot,  add  this  mixture,  and  stir  for  a  minute  or  two  until  it 
thickens.  It  is  better  not  to  cook  after  it  is  thick,  and  the  less 
it  is  stirred,  except  to  keep  it  from  forming  into  lumps,  the 
better;  add  vanilla  or  lemon  to  flavor.  Line  the  pie  dish  with 
a  crust,  pricking  well  with  a  fork  to  prevent  blistering,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven;  then  put  the  cream,  which  is  already  suffi- 
ciently cooked,  into  the  baked  crust.  Beat  the  white  of  the  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  spread  on 
top  of  the  pie.    Place  in  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. 

CUSTARD    PIE 

Line  a  pie  dish  with  a  crust,  and  fill  with  the  following: 
Three  eggs,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  flour;  beat  thoroughly  together,  and  add  milk  enough  to  fill 
the  dish.  Bake  slowly  until  set,  but  do  not  allow  to  boil.  As 
soon  as  it  pufifs,  and  a  knife  can  be  cut  into  the  custard  and 
come  out  clean,  it  is  done.  To  be  eaten  cold,  and  on  the  same 
day  as  baked. 

PUMPKIN    PIE 

Cut  the  pumpkin  in  halves,  remove  the  seeds,  cut  in  slices, 
and  stew  until  dry  and  soft.  Mash  smooth,  and  for  each  pie 
take  one  cup  of  stewed  pumpkin,  one-third  cup  of  sugar,  two 
eggs,  and  about  a  pint  of  milk.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether, stir  in  the  pumpkin,  and,  lastly,  add  the  milk;  mix  well, 
and  bake  with  an  under  crust  only,  until  the  custard  is  set. 
Squash  may  be  used  instead  of  pumpkin.     If  more  convenient, 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  85 

two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  eggs. 
A  tablespoonful  or.  two  of  molasses  may  also  be  added  if 
desired. 

What  moistens  the  lip,  and 

What  brightens  the  eye, 
What  brings  back  the  past, 

Like  a  good  pumpkin  pie?  —  Whittier. 

PIE    WITH    UPPER    CRUST    ONLY 

Take  a  deep  pie  dish,  place  a  small  cup  upside  down  in  the 
middle  of  it,  and  fill  the  dish  with  fruit,  adding  sugar  as  desired. 
Place  a- border  of  crust  around  the  edge  of  the  dish,  put  on  the 
top  crust,  ornament  the  edges,  and  bake. 

TARTS 

Line  shallow  pie  dishes  or  patty-pans  with  good  crusts,  fill 
with  the  fruit,  and  bake.  When  done,  remove  from  the  oven, 
and  sprinkle  with  fine  sugar. 

Small  tarts  may  be  made  by  rolling  crust  out  thin,  and  cut- 
ting in  shapes  with  a  cake  cutter,  using  half  of  them  for  the 
under  crust,  and  the  other  half  for  tops;  ornament  the  tops  by 
cutting  small  holes  in  the  center  with  a  thimble  or  small  fancy 
mold.  Bake  quickly,  and  when  done  put  together  with  fruit 
jelly. 

VEGETABLE    PIE 

Boil  for  a  short  time  several  potatoes  and  onions,  after  which 
slice  them  into  a  deep,  buttered  pie  dish  in  layers;  add  to  each 
layer  a  little  sage  and  well-steeped  tapioca,  and  season  with 
salt.  Cover  with  a  crust  and  bake.  A  very  economical  and 
wholesome  pie. 

SAVORY   PIE 

Soak  one-half  cup  of  tapioca  in  one  cup  of  cold  water  for 
one  hour.  Moisten  enough  stale  bread  in  cold  water  to  make 
three  cupfuls;  put  into  a  dish,  and  rub  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter  and  one  of  flour.  Then  mix  in  one-half  cup  of  stewed 
fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sage,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Put  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  pour  over  the 
tapioca.  Boil  two  eggs  until  hard,  remove  shells,  cut  into  slices, 
and  place  on  top  of  the  tapioca;  add  a  few  bits  of  butter,  cover 
with  a  crust,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  or  thirty 
minutes.     Serve  hot. 

MERINGUE   FOR   PIES 

To  each  stiffly  beaten  white  of  an  tg^,  add  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar,  and  spread  on  the  pie  after  it  is  baked  and  allowed  to 
cool  slightly;  place  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Care  should 
be  taken  that  the  oven  is  not  too  hot,  or  the  covering  will  be 
tough  and  leathery. 


Feed  sparingly,  and  defy  the  physician. 

Who  lives   to   eat,  will   die   by  eating. 

Whoever  eats  too  much,  or  of  food  which  is  not  healthful, 
is  weakening  his  powers  to  resist  the  clamors  of  other  appe- 
tites and  passions. — "  Christian  Temperance." 

The  best  seasoning  for  food  is  hunger. —  Socrates. 

Reason   should   direct,   and   appetite   obey. —  Cicero. 

Men  should  be  temperate  in  eating  as  well  as  drinking. — 
Dr.  Brandreth. 

)!^      ^      ^ 

IT  is  important  that  all  the  necessary  materials  should  be 
gathered  together  before  beginning  the  cake.    If  baking- 
powder  is  used,  allow  a  teaspoonful  to  each  cup  of  flour; 
sift  it  in  the  flour,  and  measure  the  sugar;  have  the  pans 
for  baking  in  readiness.    Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs 
separately   in   china    bowls,    using   a 

ll^^^^^;...^ ^^^        Dover  egg-beater.  The  whites  should 

'^/^^^^^^^^J  be  beaten  till  stiff  enough  to  cut  with 
a  knife,  the  yolks  till  they  cease  to 
froth  and  begin  to  thicken.  Cream 
the  butter  by  beating  it,  first  warming  the  dish  by  rinsing 
with  hot  water,  if  the  weather  is  cold.  Then  add  the  sugar 
slowly,  then  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs;  add  a  little  of  the 
milk,  then  a  part  of  the  flour,  thus  alternating  with  the  milk 
and  flour  till  all  are  used,  being  careful  to  have  the  mixture 
always  of  about  the  same  consistency. 
86 


Dover  Egg  Beater 


A   friend  in  the  Kitchen  8/ 

Next  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  add  flavoring  if 
desired,  and  beat  for  a  few  moments.  If  fruit  is  used,  fold 
it  in,  well  floured,  the  last  thing,  or  it  will  sink  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  cake. 

The  baking  is  an  important  part  of  cake-making.  The 
oven  should  be  at  a  proper  temperature ;  if  too  hot  at  first, 
the  cake  browns  too  quickly,  and  a  crust  is  formed  over  the 
top  before  the  cake  has  sufficient  time  to  rise ;  if  not  hot . 
enough,  the  air  that  has  been  beaten  in  escapes  before  the 
heat  has  time  to  expand  it;  the  result  is  that  the  cake  is 
coarse-grained  and  heavy. 

Have  the  oven  less  hot  for  cake  than  for  bread,  but 
hotter  for  thin  cake  than  for  loaf  cake.  It  is  about  right 
for  loaf  cake  made  with  butter  when  it  turns  a  piece  of 
writing-paper  a  light  brown  in  five  minutes.  About  an 
hour  will  be  required  to  bake  a  loaf  cake:  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes  for  small  cakes  and  layer  cakes. 

A  tube  cake  pan,  as  shown  in  the  accompanying  cut,  is 
very  good  for  baking  ordinary  cakes, 
as  the  tube  causes  the  cake  to  bake 
more  evenly,  and  renders  it  less  liable 
to  fall. 

Cake  Pan  If  it  is  necessary  to  move  the  cake 

after  putting  it  in  the  oven,  it  should  be  done  carefully,  as 
jarring  is  liable  to  make  it  fall.  A  cake  is  done  when  a 
clean  broom  straw  passed  through  the  thickest  part  comes 
out  clean. 

If  a  cake  rises  up,  cracks  open,  and  remains  that  way, 
it  has  baked  too  fast,  or  too  much  flour  has  been  used.  To 
bake  properly,  it  should  rise  first  on  the  edges,  then  in  the 
middle,  crack  open  slightly,  then  settle  till  level,  when  it  will 
have  closed  nearly  together  again.  The  outside  should  be  a 
golden  brown,  the  inside  slightly  moist,  and  fine  grained. 


88  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

In  beating  the  yolks  of  eggs  where  both  eggs  and  milk 
are  used,  first  rinse  the  bowl  in  which  the  yolks  are  to  be 
beaten  with  a  little  of  the  milk. 

In  beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  do  not  stop  until  they 
are  stiff,  as  they  can  not  be  beaten  stiff  after  standing  till 
they  have  become  liquid  again.  Eggs  will  beat  stiffer  if  cold, 
and  beaten  in  a  cold  dish  and  in  a  cool  room. 

Jelly  for  filling  should  be  beaten  till  smooth,  then  spread 
between  the  layers  before  they  are  quite  cool.  In  using  des- 
sicated  cocoanut,  first  moisten  it  with  a  little  sweet  cream. 

Citron  used  in  cake  should  be  cut  into  fine  strips.  Cur- 
rants and  raisins  should  be  looked  over,  washed,  dried,  and 
then  be  well  floured  before  being  added  to  the  cake,  as  they 
absorb  moisture  and  tend  to  make  the  cake  heavy.  Rich  cake 
should  be  avoided.  Sponge  cake  may  be  considered  the 
most  healthful. 

To  make  sponge  cake,  beat  the  yolks  till  thick  and  light- 
colored,  then  beat  in  the  sugar,  add  lemon-juice,  or  other 
liquid  and  flavoring  to  be  used.  Then  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites,  sift  in  the  flour  over  them,  and  fold  all  in  together 
without  stirring  or  beating.  Beating  sponge  cake  after 
adding  the  flour  makes  it  firm  and  tough,  as  also  does  the 
addition  of  too  much  flour.  Sponge  cake  should  be  put 
together  lightly  and  quickly,  and  baked  at  once. 

SPONGE   CAKE 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  then  gradually  add  one  cupful 
of  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cold  water  and 
lemon-juice.  Add  the  beaten  whites  and  one  cupful  of  flour, 
following  general  directions  for  making  sponge  cake  as  given 
above. 

LEMON   SPONGE   CAKE 

Take  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  lemon- 
juice,  with  a  little  of  the  grated  rind,  and  one  cupful  of  flour. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  foam,  then  beat  in  the  sugar, 
adding  a  little  at  a  time;  then  add  the  lemon-juice  and  grated 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  89 

rind;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  then  lightly 
fold  and  chop  them  into  the  mixture.  Slowly  sift  in  the  flour, 
carefully  working  it  in.  Do  not  beat  after  the  flour  has  been 
added.  Bake  in  two  layers,  and  put  together  with  fruit  jelly  or 
lemon  honey.     See  page  40. 

SPONGE   LOAF   CAKE 

Break  ten  eggs  into  a  large  bowl,  add  two  large  cupfuls  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  beat  together  for  half  an  hour  without 
pausing.  Then  add  one  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  and  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water. 
Turn  into  deep  pans,  sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

GEM   CAKES 

Beat  to  a  foam  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and 
one  cup  of  cold,  thin,  sweet  cream;  a  little  grated  lemon  rind 
may  be  added  for  flavoring.  Stir  in  slowly,  beating  thoroughly, 
two  cupfuls  of  flpur  into  which  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch has  been  sifted.  Beat  until  light  and  smooth;  then  add 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  stirring  just  enough  to  mix 
them  in.  Turn  into  oiled,  heated  gem  irons,  and  bake  in  a  rather 
quick  oven. 

RICE    CAKES 

Separate  four  eggs;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites,  beat 
until  stiflf,  then  set  in  a  cool  place.  Beat  the  yolks  for  several 
minutes,  then  slowly  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  beating  continu- 
ously; carefully  fold  in  the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  add  one- 
half  cup  of  flour,  sifted  before  measuring,  and  mixed  with  one- 
half  cup  of  ground  rice;  work  in  carefully,  and  quickly  turn  the 
mixture  into  oiled  patty-pans,  or  drop  by  spoonfuls  into  a  large 
oiled  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

CREAM    CAKE 

One  cupful  each  of  sugar  and  sweet  milk,  one  &gg,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder.  Put  together  according  to  general  directions. 
Bake  in  three  layers,  and  put  together  with  a  filling  made  as 
follows:  Heat  one  cupful  of  mik  to  boiling;  to  this  add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  sugar,  one  dessertspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk  reserved  for  this  purpose,  and  one  well- 
beaten  egg;  'boil  until  thickened,  let  cool  a  little,  and  spread 
between  the  layers. 

NUT    CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking- 
powder,  and  one  cupful  of  milk.  Put  together  according  to  gen- 
eral directions.  Lastly,  stir  in  one  cupful  of  chopped  nuts,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


90  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

FAVORITE    CAKE 
Beat  together  for  nearly  an   hour  one  cupful  each  of  flour 
and  rice  flour,  twelve  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  and  a  spoonful 
of  caraway  seeds.     Bake  in  a  tube  cake  pan. 

LAYER    CAKE 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs, 
half  cup  of  milk,  and  two  heaping  cups  of  sifted  flour,  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers,  and  put 
together  with  a  boiled  frosting  to  which  a  cupful  of  chopped 
nuts  or  raisins  may  be  added. 

DELICATE    CUP    CAKE 

Take  two  eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  rich  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  and  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Make 
according  to  general  directions;  bake  in  patty  pans,  or  gem  irons. 

RAISED    FRUIT   CAKE 

Take  one  cup  of  light  bread  dough  when  ready  for  the  pans, 
put  into  a  dish,  and  work  into  it  one-half  cup  of  oil  or  butter, 
one  egg  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  milk, 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  and  lastly  one  cup  of  English 
currants  or  seedless  raisins,  chopped  fine.  Turn  into  an  oiled 
bread  tin,  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half, 
or  until  light,  then  bake  for  nearly  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FROSTING   FOR   CAKE 

Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  stiff,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon-juice,  then  gradually  add  one  scant  cup  of  powdered 
sugar;  beat  very  hard;  flavor  as  desired.  To  color  it  a  delicate 
pink,  add  a  little  currant  or  strawberry  juice;  a  yellow  tint  may 
be  obtained  by  grating  orange  or  lemon  rind,  and  using  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  juice,  first  straining  through  a  cloth. 

BOILED   FROSTING 

Without  stirring  boil  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water  in  a  saucepan  until  clear;  then  pour  it  upon 
the  stifily  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  stirring  well  together,  and 
spread  over  the  cake  with  a  knife,  which  dip  frequently  into  cold 
water. 

CREAM   ICING 

To  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  one  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla or  other  flavoring  add  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to  make 
it  stiff  enough  to  spread.  Orange,  or  other  fruit  juice,  may  be 
used  in  place  of  the  cream. 

ORANGE   ICING 

Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  one  orange  and  enough  confectioner's  sugar  to  make  it  stiff 
enough  to  spread. 


Whole<5om 


DriKR§ 


Write  it  underneath  your  feet, 
Up  and  down  the  busy  street; 
Write  it  for  the  great  and  small, 
In  the  palace,  cottage,  hall, — 
Where  there's   drink  there's  danger. 

—  Selected. 
Water  is  best. —  Pindar. 

Tea  is  a  stimulant;  coffee  is  a  hurtful  indulgence. 
Wine  is  a  mocker,  strong  drink  is  raging:  and  whosoever  is 
deceived  thereby  is  not  wise. — Solomon. 

If  you  wish  to  keep  mind  clear  and  body  healthy,  abstain 
from  all  fermented  liquors. —  Sydney  Smith. 

Many  who  never  touch  alcohol  ruin  their  health  by  tea. — 
Hygiene  Review. 

Temperance  is  the  parent  of  health,  cheerfulness,  and  old 
age. —  George  Mogridge. 

CEREAL   COFFEE 

To  prepare,  take  three  and  one-half  quarts  of  fresh  bran, 
one  and  one-half  quarts  corn-meal,  two  cupfuls 
of  molasses,  and  one  cupful  of  boiling  water; 
mix  all  together  thoroughly,  bake  jn  a  large 
dripping-pan  in  the  oven  till  a  rich  brown 
color;  stir  often  to  prevent  scorching.  Make 
the    same    as    ordinary    coffee,    only   let   boil   a    little  longer. 

CRUST   COFFEE 

Brown  stale  pieces  of  brown  or  white  bread  in  the  oven 
slowly  to  a  golden  brown;  then  crush  with  a  rolling-pin.  Put 
the  crumbs  in  a  thin  cloth  bag,  filling  only  half  full,  and  tying 
near  the  top;  put  the  bag  in  the  coffee-pot  and  turn  on  hot 
water,  allowing  seven  parts  of  water  to  one  of  crumbs.  Boil 
five  or  ten  minutes.  Remove  the  bag,  bring  the  coffee  to  a  boil 
again,  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar.  This  makes  a  very 
smooth  drink,  and  is  especially  nice  for  the  sick. 

91 


Coffee  Strainer 


92 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


Coffee  Mill 


CORN    COFFEE 

Brown  common  field  corn  as  brown  as  pos- 
sible without  burning;  then  pound,  or  grind 
coarsely  in  a  coflfee-mill,  and  place  in  a  covered 
can  ready  for  use.  In  making  the  cofifee,  mix  the 
white  of  an  egg  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  the 
ground  grain,  pour  over  three  or  four  cups  of 
boiling  water,  and  steep  for  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Peas,  wheat,  barley,  or  rice  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  way. 

HOT   MILK 

Heat  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler  until  the  surface  becomes 
wrinkled.  It  should  be  drunk  a  few  sips  at  a  time.  A  bowl  of 
hot  milk  and  brown  bread  forms  a  nourishing  meal. 

CAMBRIC   TEA 

Take  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  a  little  cream,  and  sugar 
to  sweeten.     A  simple  but  pleasant  and  wholesome  drink. 

EGG-NOG 

Beat  one  egg  and  a  teaspoonful  of  powdered  sugar  to  a 
foam;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  pour  into  a  glass  and  fill 
up  with  cold  water. 

EGG-NOG,    HOT 

Beat  well  together  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  sugar;  add  one-half  cup  of  hot  milk  or  water,  and  the  white 
of  the  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  stir  lightly,  and  serve. 

LEMONADE,   NO.   1 

Roll  the  lemons  till  soft;  cut  into  halves,  and 
with  a  lemon  drill  squeeze  out  sufficient  juice  to 
make  one  cupful;  add  to  this  one  cupful  of  white 
sugar;  as  soon  as  the  sugar  dissolves,  add  about 
two  quarts  of  water,  and  serve.  For  lemon  frappe 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. 


Lemon  Drill 


LEMONADE,    NO.   2 

For  each  quart  desired,  take  the  juice  of  three  or  four  lem- 
ons, and  the  rind  of  one.  Peel  the  rind  very  thin,  getting  just 
the  yellow;  place  it  in  a  pitcher  with  the  juice  of  the  lemons 
and  from  four  to  six  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar.  Pour  over 
enough  hot  water  to  make  a  quart  in  all;  cover  at  once,  and 
let  stand  until  cold;  or  pour  over  a  spoonful  or  two  of  boiling 
water  to  dissolve  the  sugar,  and  add  the  necessary  quantity  of 
cold  water. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  93 

HOT   LEMONADE 

To  the  juice  of  each  lemon  add  a  cupful  of  boiling  water, 
and  sweeten  to  taste.     Excellent  for  a  cold. 

ORANGEADE 

Choose  nice,  juicy,  ripe  oranges,  and  make  the  same  as  Lem- 
onade Nos.  I  and  2,  only  using  less  sugar.  This  will  be  found 
a  much  nicer  drink  than  many  imagine.     Try  it. 

FRUIT   JUICE    LEMONADE 

To  a  pint  of  lemonade  prepared  according  to  foregoing 
recipes,  add  a  half  cup  of  strawberry,  raspberry,  blackberry,  or 
currant  juice.  This  gives  a  nice  color  to*  the  lemonade,  besides 
improving  its  flavor. 

PINEAPPLE    LEMONADE 

Make  the  lemonade  as  indicated  above,  and  flavor  with  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  pineapple  juice. 

GRAPEADE 

Take  two  pounds  of  thoroughly  ripe  purple  grapes,  crush, 
and  strain  the  juice  through  a  coarse  cloth  or  jelly-bag.  Add 
to  the  juice  three  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  and  dilute  with 
sufficient  cold  water  to  suit  the  taste. 

FRUIT      JUICE      DRINKS 

Take  a  small  quantity  of  the  juice  of  any  stewed  or  canned 
fruit.  Dilute  with  water,  and  add  sugar  according  to  the  acid- 
ity of  the  juice.  When  fruit  juice  is  not  available,  similar  drinks 
may  be  made  by  dissolving  fruit  jelly  in  warm  water,  and  al- 
lowing to  cool.  Such  drinks  are  especially  refreshing  for  the 
sick. 

FRUIT   PUNCH 

Boil  two  pounds  of  sugar  and  three  quarts  of  water  for  five 
minutes.  Then  strain,  and  add  to  it  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
and  two  oranges,  and  one  pint  of  freshly  grated  pineapple.  Let 
stand  for  an  hour  or  two,  then  add  sufficient  shaved  ice  to  make 
it  palatable,  a  cupful  of  halved  strawberries,  a  few  raspberries, 
and  serve. 

BUTTERMILK 

If  rich  and  thick,  drop  into  it  a  piece  of  ice;  or  if  not,  place 
on  ice  till  cool.  This  is  a  very  healthful  drink,  for,  after  the 
butter,  which  is  the  carbonaceous  or  heat-producing  element,  is 
removed,  a  most  refreshing,  nourishing  quality  remains. 


Nuts,  Oils,  Etc. 

O  blessed  health!  thou  art  above  all  gold  and  treasure.  He 
who  has  thee  has  little  more  to  wish  for;  and  he  who  is  so 
wretched  as  to  want  thee,  wants  everything  with  thee. —  Sterne. 

Give  a  wise  man  health,  and  he  will  give  himself  every  other 
thing. —  Cotton. 

It  is  health  that  makes  your  meat  savory,  your  drink  pal- 
atable, your  sleep  refreshing,  your  delights  delightful,  and  your 
pleasures  pleasurable. —  Combe. 

as      )^     J^ 

THE  world  is  in  need  of  knowledge  how  to  prepare 
and  use  simple,  inexpensive,  healthful  foods.  As 
diseases  increase  in  the  animal  creation,  it  will  be  more 
and  more  necessary  for  those  who  desire  to  preserve  their 
health  to  come  back  to  the  diet  originally  given  to  man, — 
a  diet  consisting  chiefly  of  fruits,  grains,  and  nuts,  and 
various  legumes,  roots,  and  herbs.  At  the  rate  disease  is 
increasing  at  the  present  time,  it  will  not  be  long  before 
it  will  be  unsafe  to  use  animal  products  of  any  kind.  It 
is  well,  therefore,  for  all  to  learn  how  to  prepare  foods 
without  them. 

Various  nut,  cereal,  and  legume  preparations  well  supply 
the  place  of  flesh-meats.  The  different  nut  and  vegetable 
oils  take  the  place  of  butter,  cream,  and  other  animal  fats. 

In  the  use  of  nuts,  care  should  be  taken  not  to  use  them 
too  freely,  as  they  are  a  very  rich  and  concentrated  form 

94 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  95 

of  food.  Eaten  sparingly  in  their  natural  state  in  connec- 
tion with  the  meals,  or  properly  combined  with  other  less 
concentrated  foods,  they  fill  an  important  place  in  a  natural 
dietary. 

A  little  experience  in  the  use  of  vegetable  oils  will 
convince  any  one  that  they  are  not  only  palatable,  but  far 
more  cleanly  and  wholesome  than  many  of  the  ordinary 
fats  used  in  cooking. 

The  following  recipes  are  designed  to  aid  especially  in 
preparing  foods  in  this  manner :  — 

PEANUT    BUTTER 

Put  the  shelled  peanuts  in  a  pan  in  a  slow 
oven,  leaving  the  door  slightly  ajar;  allow  to 
stay  in  till  so  dry  that  the  hulls  will  rub  oflE 
easily,  but  in  no  case  allow  to  brown  or  burn. 
When  sufficiently  dry,  put  into  a  bag,  tie  up 
closely,  and  knead  or  roll  on  a  table  with  the 
hands  until  the  husks  are  well  loosened;  sepa- 
rate the  husks  from  the  nuts  by  turning  from 
one  pan  into  another  in  the  wind.  Grind,  and 
cook  for  several  hours  in  a  double  boiler  with 
no  water  added  to  the  nuts.  Put  away  to  use  Universal  Chopper 
as  occasion  requires.  and  Nut-Batter  Mill 

PEANUT   CREAM 

Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter  with  two  or  three  spoon- 
fuls of  water  to  a  smooth  cream;  then  add  one-half  cupful  of 
water,  a  little  salt,  and  stir  well  together. 

PEANUT    MILK 

Make  the  same  as  peanut  cream,  only  add  more  water. 

ALMOND    BUTTER 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  shelled  nuts,  and  let  stand  from 
three  to  five  minutes;  then  drain,  and  slip  ofif  the  husks  with 
thumb  and  finger.  Put  in  a  warm  place  till  thoroughly  dry; 
grind,  and  put  away  for  future  use. 

ALMOND     MILK     AND     CREAM 

Proceed  the  same  as  with  peanut  cream  and  milk,  only  using 
a  little  more  water. 


96  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

COCOANUT    MILK    AND     CREAM 

Select  good  cocoanuts  with  milk  in  them.  Let  the  milk  out 
of  the  soft  eye;  then,  holding  the  nut  in  the  left  hand,  strike 
sharp,  quick  blows  with  a  hammer  or  iron  bar  on  the  meridian 

^ -—__-.«»».     li"^)    causing   the    nut 

^^V^»ll^^^^^^lill^l^^^^^^^±^^^^     to  revolve  by  tossing 
^  ^  e  it  up  slightly,  when  it 

Cocoanut  Scraper  ^ju    ^reak    in    halves. 

Grate  on  an  iron  or  steel  cocoanut  scraper,  made  as  shown  in 
accompanying  cut,  placing  the  scraper  board  across  a  chair, 
with  a  pan  upon  the  floor  to  catch  the  grated  nut,  while  the 
operator  sits  upon  the  board,  takes  half  of  the  broken  nut  in 
the  hollow  of  both  hands,  scraping  it  back  and  forth  over  the 
sharp  teeth  till  all  the  meat  has  been  finely  scraped  from  the 
shell.  For  each  grated  nut  pour  over  a  quart  of  hot  water;  stir 
well,  then  squeeze  and  strain  through  a  strong,  coarse  cloth. 
Empty  the  cocoanut  from  the  cloth  into  a  saucepan,  pour  over 
a  little  more  hot  water,  stir,  and  strain  through  the  cloth  a 
second  time,  to  get  out  all  the  milk.  This  makes  cocoanut  milk. 
Using  half  the  quantity  of  water  makes  good  cream;  or  let  the 
milk  stand  an  hour  and  skim  ofif  the  top  for  thick  cream. 

COCOANUT-OIL 

Cocoanut-oil  can  generally  be  purchased  in  the  market  from 
wholesale  druggists,  though  it  is  sometimes  difficult  to  get  that 
which  is  not  rancid.  It  can  be  made  by  taking  the  cream  from 
a  half  dozen  or  dozen  nuts,  treated  as  above,  only  allowing  the- 
milk  to  stand  over  night  before  skimming,  and  boiling  the 
cream  in  an  iron  vessel,  without  stirring,  until  all  the  water  is 
evaporated.  When  done,  the  sediment  will  be  found  browned, 
and  adhering  to  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  Bottle,  and  set  away 
for  use. 

Ko-nut  is  a  pure,  refined  cocoanut-oil,  which  does  not  turn 
rancid,  and  is,  therefore,  very  nice,  and  far  preferable  to  the 
cocoanut-oil   ordinarily  obtainable  for   cooking  purposes. 

VEGETABLE   OIL 

There  are  various  good  cooking  oils,  among  which  may  be 
mentioned  Wesson's  Cooking  Oil,  and  Fairbank's  White  Cook- 
ing Oil,  both  refined  products  of  cottonseed-oil.  Olive-oil  may 
also  be  used  in  cooking. 

HOME-MADE    GRANOLA 

Take  slices  of  brown,  white,  or  whole  wheat  bread,  place  in 
a  moderate  oven  until  a  light  brown,  break  in  pieces,  and  grind 
coarsely  through  a  mill.  Or,  take  a  cup  each  of  wheaf-meal 
and  white  flour,  one-half  cup  each  of  corn-meal  and  rolled  oats 
or  corn-meal  and  rye  flour,  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a 
stiflf  dough;  knead  well,  roll  thin,  cut  in  squares,  and  bake  until 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  97 

dry  and  brittle;  grind  coarsely,  and_  serve  with  thin  cream,  hot 
or  cold  milk,  cocoanut  milk,  or  fruit  juice;  or  to  each  pint  of 
boiling  milk  or  water  stir  in  one  cupful  of  granola,  add  a  little 
salt,  cook  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

NUTMEAT 

Take  one  cup  of  peanut  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  hot 
water,  three  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  gluten,  and  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  from  four  to  five  hours.  A  small  onion  grated  fine  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  powdered  sage  may  be  added  if  desired. 

PROTOSE   STEAK 

Cut  protose  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick.  Lay  on  an  oiled 
tin  and  place  in  the  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

PROTOSE   CUTLETS 

Take  one  pound  of  protose  and  cut  into  slices  three  or  four 
inches  long  and  one  inch  wide,  lay  on  an  oiled  tin,  and  place 
in  the  oven  till  well  heated;  have  ready  an  egg  well  beaten,  to 
which  add  a  sprinkle  of  salt;  take  the  protose  from  the  oven, 
and  dip  each  piece  in  the  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  fine  bread 
crumbs,  place  back  on  the  pan,  and  set  in  the  oven  until  nicely 
browned. 

NUT   GRAVY 

Blend  one  tablespoonful  of  nut  butter  with  a  little  water; 
stir  it  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  salt,  and  thicken  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  browned  flour  moistened  with  cold  water; 
boil  five  or  ten  minutes.  A  few  spoonfuls  of  stewed,  strained 
tomatoes  will  improve  it.     Nice  with  vegetables  or  toasts. 

EGGS     IN     NEST     ON     ZWIEBACK 

Take  six  eggs,  or  as  many  as  required,  break,  and  separate, 
by  putting  all  the  whites  in  one  bowl  and  each  yolk  in  a  cup 
by  itself  containing  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cold  water.  Moisten 
six  slices  of  zwieback  by  pouring  over  them  hot  water  and 
quickly  draining,  and  place  side  by  side  in  a  large  shallow 
baking  pan.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  very  stiff,  and 
place  an  equal  amount  on  top  of  each  slice  of  zwieback.  Make 
a  hollow  in  the  center  of  the  whites,  lift  the  yolks  out  of  the 
water  from  the  cups  with  a  tablespoon,  being  careful  not  to 
break  them.,  and  place  a  yolk  in  each  hollow.  Sprinkle  over  a 
little  salt,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  the  whites  are  a  delicate 
brown.    Serve  as  soon  as  done.    A  nice  dish  for  the  sick. 


Tor  Tne 


^!1^EC» 


Health  —  thou  chiefest  good, 

Bestow'd  by  heaven, 
But  seldom  understood. 

—  Lucan. 

Diet  cures  more  than  doctors. —  Scotch  Proverb. 

A  merry  heart  doeth  good  like  a  medicine. —  Solomon. 

Health  is  not  quoted  in  the  markets,  because  it  is  without 
price. —  Selected. 

The  best  physicians  are  Dr.  Diet,  Dr.  Quiet,  and  Dr.  Merry- 
man. —  Selected. 

The  less  the  attention  is  called  to  the  stomach  the  better. 
If  you  are  in  constant  fear  that  your  food  will  hurt  you,  it  most 
assuredly  will.    Forget  your  troubles;  think  of  something  cheer- 
Christian  Temperance." 

)^       ^       ^ 


ful.- 


FOOD  for  the  sick  should  generally  be  of  a  very  simple 
character.  It  should  be  such  as  will  furnish  the  most 
nourishment  with  the  least  tax  upon  the  digestive  organs. 
It  should  be  prepared  with  care  and  scrupulous  cleanliness, 
well  cooked,  and  served  in  the  most  inviting  manner.  Cover 
the  tray  with  clean  white  linen,  and  use  the  daintiest  dishes 
the  house  affords. 

Other  dishes  suitable  for  the  sick  may  be  found  among 
the  Toasts,  Breads,  Fruits,  Wholesome  Drinks,  etc. 

GLUTEN    GRUEL 

For  each  cupful  of  boiling  milk  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
gluten  meal;  add  a  little  salt,  let  boil  a  moment,  and  serve, 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen  99 

ARROWROOT    GRUEL 

Rub  one  teaspoonful  of  arrowroot  smooth  in  a  tablespoonful 
of  cold  water;  pour  over  it  two  cups  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
continually;  set  the  saucepan  in  hot  water  till  the  arrowroot  is 
thoroughly  cooked;  turn  into  a  pitcher,  add  a  little  sugar  to 
sweeten,  and  flavor  with   a   little   lemon  peel. 

GRAHAM    GRUEL 

Into  three  cups  of  actively  boiling  water,  stir  one  small  cup 
of  sifted  Graham  flour  mixed  to  a  paste  with  a  cup  of  cold 
water  or  milk.  Add  a  little  salt,  and  cook  until  done.  Add 
a  small  quantity  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  and  serve.  An  excellent 
breakfast  dish  for  well  people  also,  especially  for  children. 

CREAMED    GRUEL 

Cook  one  tablespoonful  of  rolled  oats  in  a  scant  pint  of 
water  until  tender;  then  strain  through  a  sieve.  Add  one-half 
cup  of  thin  cream,  and  salt  to  taste;  let  just  come  to  a  boil, 
remove  from  the  fire,  then  stir  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.     Add  a  little  sugar  if  desired. 

RICE    GRUEL 

Wet  one  teaspoonful  of  rice  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and 
stir  into  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  salt  slightly,  and  boil  until 
transparent.     Flavor  with  lemon  peel. 

MILK   GRUEL 

Heat  one  cup  of  milk  to  boiling,  and  stir  in  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  fine  oatmeal;  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  until 
the  meal  is  thoroughly  done.     Season  with  a  little  salt. 

ONION    GRUEL 

Boil  a  few  sliced  onions  until  tender  in  a  pint  of  fresh  milk, 
adding  a  little  oatmeal;  season  with  salt.     Good  for  colds. 

LEMONADE,    HOT    AND     COLD 

Make  as  indicated  on  page  92. 

APPLE    WATER 

Take  three  ripe,  tart,  juicy  apples,  wash  and  wipe,  but  do 
not  pare;  slice  into  a  quart  of  hot  water;  let  stand  until  cool, 
pour  off  the  water,  and  sweeten  it  to  taste. 

RICE   WATER 

Put  into  a  saucepan  one-half  cup  of  well-washed  rice;  add 
three  cups  of  cold  water,  and  boil  for  thirty  minutes.  Strain, 
season  with  salt,  and  serve. 


100  A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

BARLEY    WATER 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pearl  barley  into  a  cupful  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  let  simmer  a  few  minutes;  drain,  and  add  two 
quarts  of  boiling  water  with  a  few  figs  and  seeded  raisins 
chopped  fine.  Cook  slowly  until  reduced  one-half;  strain;  add 
sugar  to  taste,  and  a  little  of  the  juice  and  rind  of  a  lemon  if 
desired. 

BAKED    APPLE 

Bake  a  nice,  tart  apple,  as  directed  on  page  37;  serve  with 
cream,  or,  when  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
beaten  white  of  an  egg  and  a  teaspoonful'  of  powdered  sugar, 
and  lightly  brown   in  the  oven. 

CUP   CUSTARD 

To  one  well-beaten  egg  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  turn 
into  a  cup,  and  fill  up  the  cup  with  milk,  stirring  all  together. 
Set  the  cup  in  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until 
just  set.  Serve  from  the  cup  in  which  it  was  baked.  The  cus- 
tard may  be  flavored  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  if  desired. 

BEAN    BROTH 

Look  over  and  wash  one  cupful  of  beans,  and  put  to  cook 
in  plenty  of  water,  replenishing  with  hot  water  occasionally,  if 
necessary.  Cook  slowly  until  tender,  when  there  should  be  but 
little  more  than  a  cupful  of  broth  remaining.  Drain  this  off, 
season  with  a  spoonful  of  cream,  a  little  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

WHITE    OF    EGG    AND     MILK 

Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  briskly  into 
a  glass  of  cold  milk.     Good  for  persons  with  weak  digestion. 

STEAMED    EGG 

Break  an  egg  into  an  egg-cup  or  patty-pan,  sprinkle  slightly 
with  salt,  and  steam  over  boiling  water  until  the  white  is  set. 

SCRAMBLED    EGG 

Heat  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  in  a  saucepan,  break  into 
it  a  fresh  egg,  and  stir  lightly  until  set,  but  not  stiff.  Add  salt, 
and  serve  on  toast. 

BAKED    MILK 

Put  the  milk  into  an  earthen  jar,  cover  the  opening  with  a 
white  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  thick  as  cream. 
May  be  taken  by  the  most  delicate  stomach. 

TAPIOCA   CUP   CUSTARD 

Soak  one  tablespoonful  of  tapioca  in  a  small  cup  of  milk  for 
two  hours;  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk  of  a  fresh  egg,  a  tea- 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


101 


spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  very  little  salt;  turn  into  a  cup,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  for  twelve  or  fifteen  minutes. 

Will  fortune  never  come  with  both  hands  full. 
And  write  her  fair  words  still  in  foulest  letters? 
She  either  gives  a  stomach,  and  no  food, — 
Such  are  the  poor,  in  health,  or  else  a  feast. 
And  takes  away  the  stomach, —  such   are   the  rich, 
That  have  abundance,  and  enjoy  it  not. 

—  Shakespeare. 


OATMEAL    WATER    AND    MILK 

For  an  infant  under  three  months,  put  one  tablespoonful  of 
fine  oatmeal  into  a  pint  of  boiliiig  water,  boil  for  an  hour,  re- 
plenishing with  boiling  water  to  keep  the  quantity  good;  strain, 
and  add  one  cup  of  sterilized  milk.  Feed  in  bottle.  For  infants 
from  three  to  six  months,  use  equal  portions  of  milk  and  oat- 
meal  water,  and  after  six  months,  two-thirds   milk. 

SUBSTITUTE    FOR    MOTHER'S    MILK,    NO.    1 

Take  one  ounce  cow's  milk,  two  ounces  cream,  three  drams 
milk  sugar,  one  grain  bicarbonate  of  soda,  and  one  ounce  of 
water.  Increase  the  quantity  of  milk  and  cream  as  the  child 
gets  older. 

SUBSTITUTE    FOR    MOTHER'S     MILK,     NO,    2 

Take  one  tablespoonful  of  cream,  four  of  milk,  two  of  lime- 
water,  and  four  of  sweetened  water.  Sugar  of  milk,  two  ounces 
to  a  pint  of  water,  is  preferable  to  ordinary  sugar  for  preparing 
the  sweetened  water.  This  will  generally  agree  with  the  most 
delicate  stomach. 

WHITE     OF    EGG    AND    WATER 

Stir  well  the  white  of  an  egg  into  a  cupful  of  as  warm  water 
as  can  be  used  without  coagulating  the  egg.  Good  for  infants 
suffering  with  extremely  weak  digestion,  and  unable  to  take 
milk. 


TO    STERILIZE   MILK 

As  soon  as  received,  heat  to  nearly  the  boiling-point;  then 
remove  from  the  fire,  and  cool  as  quickly  as  possible,  by 
pouring  it  into  clean  pans,  previously  scalded,  and  placing 
these  in  cold  water. 

COTTAGE   CHEESE 

Set  a  pan  containing  a  quart  or  more  of  thick,  sour  milk 
in  a  pan  of  hot  w^ater,  or  on  the  back  of  the  stove;  as  soon  as 
the  whey  separates  from  the  curd,  line  a  colander  with  a  cloth, 
pour  in  the  scalded  milk,  tie  the  corners  of  the  cloth  together, 
and  hang  up  till  well  drained;  put  into  a  bowl,  add  one-fourth 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  enough  sweet  cream  to  make  as  moist 
as  desired;  mix  smooth  with  a  spoon,  turn  lightly  into  a  dish, 
and  serve. 

HOMINY    OR   HULLED    CORN 

To  hull  four  quarts  of  corn,  use  one  heaping  tablespoonful 
of  soda,  and  water  enough  to  cover  the  corn.  Boil  for  four 
hours,  or  until  the  hull  is  well  loosened  and  can  be  readily 
removed.  Then  wash  in  cold  water  thoroughly,  stirring,  rub- 
bing, and  rinsing  until  the  hulls  have  all  been  turned  off.  Soak 
in  clear  water  overnight  to  remove  all  traces  of  soda,  and  cook 
in  a  kettle  or  large  saucepan  all  day  in  clear  water,  stirring 
occasionally  to  prevent  burning  on  the  bottom,  and  replenish- 
ing with  hot  water  as  needed.  Season  with  salt,  put  into  a 
jar,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

DRIED    SWEET   CORN 

Remove  the  husks  and  silks,  boil  and  cut  from  the  cob  as 
directed  for  stewed  sweet  corn  on  page  57.  Spread  thinly  on 
a  cloth  or  on  shallow  tins,  and  place  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Turn 
over  occasionally,  take  in  in  the  evening,  and  put  out  to  dry 
every  day  until  thoroughly  hard  and  dry.  To  keep  ofif  flies 
and  insects,  cover  with  mosquito  webbing.  Corn  may  also  be 
dried  in  a  warm,  open  oven,  if  careful  not  to  allow  the  oven 
to  get  too  hot.  When  dry,  soak  and  cook  the  same  as  stewed 
sweet  corn,  only  longer;  or  with  beans  soaked  overnight. 

DRIED    APPLES 

Take  good,  ripe  apples,  pare,  quarter,  core,  and  cut  into  thin 


A  friend  in  the  Kitchen  103 

slices;  spread  on  shallow  tins,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  well 
heated  through,  then  in  the  sun  or  in  a  moderate,  open  oven 
until  thoroughly  dried.  Turn  the  fruit  over  occasionally  each 
day  while  drying.  Wire  screens  or  webbings  are  serviceable 
in  keeping  off  the  flies.  Other  fruits  may  be  dried  in  a  similar 
manner. 

POP-CORN 

Shell,  and  place  a  handful  in  a  wire  popper  or  frying-pan, 
covering  tightly;  shake  constantly  over  a  hot  fire,  being  careful 
not  to  burn.  When  the  popping  ceases,  it  is  done;  add  a  little 
salt  and  butter;  mix  with  it  a  little  thick  sugar  sirup,  or  mo- 
lasses boiled  down,  and  press  it  into  balls  with  the  hands 
slightly  oiled. 

TO    KEEP   APPLES,    ORANGES,   AND    LEMONS 

Wrap  each  separately  in  tissue  paper,  and  lay  so  as  not  to 
touch  each  other,  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

TO    KEEP   EGGS 

To  twelve  quarts  of  water  add  two  pints  of  fresh,  slaked 
lime  and  one  pint  of  common  salt;  mix  well,  immerse  newly- 
laid  eggs,  and  set  in  a  cool  place.  Or,  dip  the  eggs  into  a 
solution  of  gum  arabic  —  equal  parts  gum  and  water  —  let  dry, 
then  dip  again.  When  dry,  wrap  separately  in  paper,  and  pack 
in  sawdust,  bran,  or  salt. 

TO    PRESERVE   LEMON-JUICE 

When  lemons  are  cheap,  purchase  several  dozen  at  once. 
With  the  hand  press  each  lemon  on  the  table,  rolling  it  back 
and  forth  briskly  a  few  times;  cut  into  halves,  and  extract  the 
juice  with  a  lemon  drill  into  a  bowl  or  tumbler, —  never  into 
a  tin;  strain  the  juice  through  a  wire  strainer,  colander,  or 
coarse  cloth  to  remove  the  seeds  and  pulp;  add  a  pint  of  water 
and  a  pound  of  white  sugar  to  the  juice  of  each  dozen  lemons, 
and  boil  in  an  enameled  saucepan  for  about  ten  minutes;  then 
bottle  and  set  in  a  cool  place,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  A  table- 
spoonful  or  two  of  the  sirup  in  a  glass  of  water  makes  a  cool- 
ing, healthful  drink. 

COOKED    PINEAPPLE 

Pare  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  into  thin  slices,  divide  the 
slices  into  quarters,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  one-half  cup  of 
water,  and  a  very  little  sugar  for  each  pineapple;  cover  with 
a  china  plate  or  enameled  lid,  and  cook  slowly  for  about  two 
hours. 

TO    FROST    FRUITS 

Secure  nice  bunches  of  cherries,  currants,  grapes,  or  berries 
with   the   stems    on;   dip   them  into   the   stiffly  beaten   white   of 


104  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

an  egg,  then  into  powdered  sugar,  and  place  on  a  plate  or 
clean  white  paper  so  as  not  to  touch  each  other,  to  dry.  Then 
place  the  fruit  on  a  glass  dish,  chill,  and  serve. 

UNLEAVENED    BREAD    FOR   SACRAMENTAL   USE 

Take  three  cups  of  white  flour,  half  a  cup  of  thick  sweet 
cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  cold  water.  Sift  the  flour 
into  a  dish,  add  the  salt  and  cream,  and  rub  together 
thoroughly;  then  moisten  with  cold  water  till  of  the  consist- 
ency of  thick  pie  crust.  Knead  and  roll  well  with  the  hand 
for  fifteeri  minutes;  then  roll  out  to  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  in  thickness,  and  cut  into  cakes  four  inches  square.  Mark 
out  each  cake  into  half-inch  squares  with  a  knife,  so  that  when 
baked  it  may  easily  be  broken,  and  prick  each  square  with  a 
fork  to  prevent  blistering.  Lay  on  floured  baking  tins,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  or  burn. 

UNFERMENTED    WINE   FOR   SACRAMENTAL    USE 

Secure  good  grapes,  the  small,  dark  wine  grape  is  prefer- 
able, and  proceed  as  with  grape  juice  on  page  46. 

TO    CUT   LEMONS   FOR   GARNISHING 

Divide  slices  of  lemons  into  four  parts,  and  use  on  salads 
and  other  dishes,  placing  the  points  toward  the  center. 

HOW   TO    CUT   BREAD 

Bread  should  be  cut  into  smooth,  even  slices,  not  too  thick, 

^'—  ^"^    '*b'6n8^'^?»s5s=i^as?5s&i4    loaf.     If  large,  the  slices  maiy  be 

Bread  Kmfe  divided.      The    Clauss,    or    scal- 

loped-edged,    bread-knife    does    the    work    nicely.      If   bread    or 

cake  is  to  be  cut  while  warm,  the  knife  should  first  be  heated. 

NUT   RELISH 

Take  one  cup  of  almond  or  peanut  butter,  one  cup  of  dried 
figs,  or  seedless  raisins,  and  one  cup  of  gluten.  Mix  well 
together,  then  grind  twice  through  a  nut  mill.  Mold  into  a 
square  pan,  then  cut  into  inch  squares  one-half  inch  thick, 
similar  in  size  to  caramels. 

NUT   DAINTIES 

Crack  English  walnuts  so  as  not  to  break  the  meats.  Take 
the  two  halves  from  each  nut  and  press  on  each  side  of  a  nut 
relish  square.  When  sufficient  are  prepared,  place  in  a  dish 
with  an  equal  number  of   olives. 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

A  WEEK'S  MENU 


105 


FIRST  DAY 

FOURTH  DAY 

Breakfast 

Breakfast 

Fresh    Fruit 

Fresh    Apples          Cream    of    Wheat 

Oatmeal   Mush            Breakfast    Rolls 

Toast  with   Cream 

Zwieback           Stewed  Fruit 

Rice    Waffles          Stewed    Pears 

Cereal    Coffee 

Cereal    Coffee 

Dinner 

Dinner 

Split    Pea    Soup 

Lentil    Soup 

Mashed  Potatoes  with  Brown  Sauce 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes,  Cream  Sauce 

Scalloped  Tomatoes   Brown  Bread 

Tomato   Salad 

French  Rolls       Baked  Apples 

Boiled    Beans   with   Rice 

Rice   Custard 

Corn-meal    Gems          Sago    Pudding 

SECOND  DAY 

FIFTH  DAY 

Breakfast 

Breakfast 

Fresh    Fruit 

Fresh    Fruit 

Corn    Flakes 

Graham   Mush   with   Dates 

Graham  Gems     Whole  Wheat  Crisps 
Egg  Toast            Cereal  Coffee 

Oatmeal  Gems     Baked  Sweet  Apples 
Berry    Toast             Cambric    Tea 

Dinner 

Dinner 

Vegetable   Soup 

Potato  Soup 

Potatoes    with    Cream 

Boiled   Potatoes              Baked    Beans 

Stewed  Asparagus 

Stewed  Cauliflower 

Boiled  Sweet  Corn 

Brown   and  White   Bread          Rusks 

Brown    and    White    Bread 

Bananas           Pumpkin   Pie 

Stewed    Prunes                   Cream    Pie 

THIRD  DAY 

SIXTH  DAY 

Breakfast 

Breakfast 

Boiled    Rice 

Corn-meal    Mush 

Baked    Potatoes             Plain    Omelet 

Rice    Cakes              Stewed    Fruit 

Cream    Toast                 Sticks 

Whole  Wheat  Bread           Egg  Toast 

Hot    Milk 

Cereal   Coffee  or  Hot   Milk 

Dinner 

Dinner 

Rice    Soup 

Bean    Soup 

Mashed    Potatoes               Green   Peas 

Mashed   Potatoes       Stewed   Turnips 

Succotash 

Brown    and    White    Bread 

Brown    and    White    Bread 

Peach   Pie                Fruit   Biscuit 

Apple  Float                  Raised   Biscuits 

SABB 

ATH 

Breakfast 

Dinner 

Oranges    and    Bananas 

Split   Pea   and   Vermicelli   Soup 

Graham    Mush    with    Dates 

Baked    Beans 

Stewed    Prunes 

Warmed-up    Potatoes         Fruit    Buns 

Parker    House    Rolls 

Brown    and    White    Bread 

Brown   and   White   Bread 

Lemon    or    Prune    Pie        Orangeade 

Cereal    Coffee 

Fresh   Fruit  and   Nuts 

Note. —  The  above  is  simply  suggestive,  and  may  be  simplified,  enlarged, 
or  varied  as  desired.  It  is  not  supposed  that  every  person  shall  necessarily 
eat  everything  indicated  for  each  meal.  Some  will  prefer  the  grain  and 
vegetable  dishes;  others  the  grain  and  fruit.  If  a  third  meal  is  eaten, 
either  at  middle  or  close  of  day,  it  should  be  light  and  simple, —  a  mere  lunch. 


SABBATH  DINNERS 

The  Sabbath  is  the  day  of  rest.  In  order  that  it  may  be 
devoted  by  all  to  religious  exercises,  holy  meditation,  and 
spiritual  delight,  it  should  be  as  free  as  possible  from  the 
ordinary  duties  and  cares  of  life.  To  make  it  thus,  preparation 
on  the  day  before  is  necessary.  The  Lord  calls  the  day  before 
the  Sabbath  "the  preparation"  day.  Luke  23:54.  Of  the  work 
to  be  done  on  this  day  he  says :  "  To-morrow  is  the  rest  of  the 
holy  Sabbath  unto  the  Lord :  bake  that  which  ye  will  bake 
to-day,  and  seethe  [boil]  that  ye  will  seethe;  and  that  which 
remaineth  over  lay  up  for  you  to  be  kept  until  the  morning." 
Ex.   16 :  23. 

The  Sabbath  should  not  be  made  a  day  of  feasting.  The 
labor  of  the  week  being  laid  aside,  a  moderate  amount  of  plain, 
wholesome  food  is  all  that  is  necessary.  To  gormandize  on 
this  day,  as  is  the  custom  with  many,  causes  the  mind  to  be- 
come dull  and  stupid,  and  unfits  it  for  spiritual  devotion. 

With  proper  planning,  very  little,  if  any,  cooking  need  ever 
be  done  on  the  Sabbath,  aside  from  simply  warming  over 
some  of  the   foods  prepared  the  previous  day. 

Brown  bread,  fruit  bread-sticks,  or  French  rolls;  warmed 
up  potatoes,  or  potatoes  with  cream;  baked  or  boiled  beans; 
split  pea  or  lentil  soup,  with  croutons;  sago,  tapioca,  or  some 
other  simple  pudding  or  pie;  canned  or  stewed  fruit;  and  fresh 
fruits  and  nuts,  make  an  excellent  Sabbath  dinner.  All  these 
may  be  prepared  on  the  previous  day.  The  potatoes  may  be 
boiled  ready  to  warm  up,  the  beans  baked  or  boiled,  the  peas 
or  lentils  cooked  and  rubbed  through  a  colander  ready  to  add 
the  seasoning  and  necessary  water  for  soup,  the  croutons  pre- 
pared, the  fruit  stewed,  the  pudding  or  pie  baked,  and  the  nuts 
cracked.  Then  the  dinner  may  be  made  ready  quickly,  and 
with  but  little  effort. 
106 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


107 


FOOD    COMBINATIONS 

Because  of  their  chemical  nature,  the  time  required  to  digest 
them,  and  the  place  where,  and  the  juices  with  which,  they  are 
digested,  some  foods  do  not  combine  as  well  as  others.  While 
the  young  and  those  with  sound  stomachs  and  vigorous  diges- 
tion may  experience  little  or  no  inconvenience  from  improper 
and  more  varied  combinations,  to  continue  their  use  is  likely 
in  time  seriously  to  impair  the  digestion.  Dyspeptics  and 
those  troubled  with  slow  digestion  will  find  it  to  their  ad- 
vantage to  avoid  such  combinations  as  fruits  and  vegetables, 
milk  and  vegetables,  sugar  and  milk,  milk  and  fruits;  and,  when 
fruits  are  taken,  to  eat  then;  at  the  close  of  the  meal.  The 
following  are  good  combinations:  Grains  and  fruits;  fruits  and 
nuts;  grains,  fruits,  and  nuts;  grains,  legumes,  and  vegetables; 
grains  and  milk.  An  excellent  rule  to  follow  is  to  avoid  a  large 
variety  at  any  meal,  and  let  natural  cravings  indicate  largely  the 
kinds  of  food  eaten.  Above  all,  use  common  sense,  and  relish 
what  you  eat. 

TIME   REQUIRED   TO    DIGEST   VARIOUS   FOODS 


Rice    I  00 

Apples,sweet,mellow,rawi  oo 

Granola    i  oo 

Eggs,  whipped i  30 

Trout,  boiled  i  30 

Venison,  broiled  i  35 

Sago  I  45 

Tapioca   2  00 

Barley    2  00 

Eggs  raw   2  00 

Apples,  sour,  mellow,  raw  2  00 

Milk,  boiled  2  00 

Milk,  raw   "• 2  15 

Turkey,  boiled    2  25 

Parsnips,  boiled    2  30 

Potatoes,  baked    2  30 

Beans,   string,  boiled    .  .  2  30 

Cabbage,  raw 2  30 

Turkey,  roasted    2  30 

Goose,   roasted   2  30 

Lamb,  boiled 2  30 

Oysters,  raw   2  55 

Eggs,  soft  boiled   3  00 

Beef,  lean,  raw,  roasted  3  00 

Beefsteak,  broiled   3  00 

Chicken   soup,  boiled   .  .  3  00 


Mutton,  broiled    300 

Bean  soup    3  00 

Mutton,  roasted   3  iS 

Bread,  corn-meal 3  15 

Mutton  soup    3  30 

Bread,  white   3  30 

Potatoes,  boiled   3  30 

Turnips,  boiled 3  30 

Eggs,  hard  boiled 3  00 

Eggs,  fried  3  30 

Oysters,  stewed   3  30 

Butter,  melted    3  30 

Cheese   3  30 

Beets,  boiled   3  45 

Corn  and  Beans,  green     3  45 

Veal,  broiled   4  00 

Fowl,  broiled 4  00 

Beef,  lean,  fried   4  00 

Salmon,  salted,  boiled  4  00 
Beef,  salted,  boiled  ....  4  15 
Soup,  marrow-bone  .  .  •  •  4  15 

Pork,  salted,  fried 415 

Veal,  fried    4  30 

Duck,  roasted   4  30 

Cabbage,  boiled   4  30 

Pork,  roasted    5  15 


108 


A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


NUTRITIVE    VALUE    OF   FOODS 

The  nutritive  food  elements  are  classified  into  three  groups. 
The  nitrogenous,  or  muscle-  and  tissue-building;  the  carbona- 
ceous, or  heat-  and  energy-producing;  and  the  mineral,  or  the 
bone-   and   nerve-building. 

Albumen,  gluten,  and  casein  belong  to  the  nitrogenous; 
starch,  sugar,  and  fats  to  the  carbonaceous;  and  salts,  cellulose 
portions,   and   inorganic   substances  to   the   mineral. 

The  nitrogenous  elements  are  of  prime  importance,  as  they 
nourish  the  brain,  nerves,  muscles,  and  the  more  highly  vital- 
ized tissues  of  the  body.  The  carbonaceous,  however,  are  re- 
quired in  much  larger  quantities,  the  correct  proportion  being 
about  eight  or  ten  of  carbonaceous  to  one  of  nitrogenous. 


FOODS 


FOODS 


GRAINS 
Wheat 
Barley 
Oats 

Rye 

Corn 
Rice  ... 


FRUITS 
Banana 

Date 

Grape   

Apple 

Fear    

Peach     .  . 

Plum  ... 

Cherry   

Blackberry.. 
Gooseberry 
Raspberry  .. 

Currant 

Apricot  


VEGETABLES 
Arrowroot 

Potato  

Sweet  Potato. 
Carrot 

Beet  

Parsnip _. 

Cabbage 
Turnip 


10.8 

6.3 
12.6 

8.0 
II. 1 
6.3 


4.8 


72.5 
76.7 
69.4 
75-2 
73.2 
80.2 


20.2 
58.0 
14.3 
10.3 
10.2 
7.8 
9-3 


2.6 


85.0 
85.0 
85.0 
85.0 

86.0 
87.0 


25.8 
67.0 
15-4 
10.9 
10.7 
8.6 
10. 1 
16.8 
6.7 
9.6 
7.4 
5-9 
13.5 


82.0 
25.0 
31.6 
17.0 
16.5 
18.0 
S.6 
9.0 


LEGUMES 
Peas  .... 
Beans ... 
Lentils . 


NUTS 
Peanut .... 
Almond  ... 
Cocoanut. 
Walnut  .. 
Hazelnut . 

SWEETS 

Sugar  

Molasses. 


MILK 

New  Milk 

Cream  

Skimmed  Milk 


MEATS 

Lean  Mutton 
Lean  Beef 

Veal  

Pork  

Poultry  

White  Fish  ... 

Salmon  

Egg 


23.8 
30.8 
25.2 


28.3 

23-5 
5.6 
15.8 
17.4 


60.8 
SO.  2 

S8.6 


4H.0 
60.8 
43-9 
60.4 
60.8 


95.0 
77.0 


18.3 


16.5 
3.8 


79.6 
87.3 

50.5 


95  O 

77.0 


14.0 
34.0 


28.0 
28.0 
370 
61.0 
26.0 
22.0 
23.0 
26.0 


Note. — From  the  above  it  will  be  seen  that  grains,  legumes,  nuts,  and  sweeK. 
as  well  as  some  fruits  and  vegetables,  contain  more  nourishment  than  do  meats. 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen  109 

HOW   TO    BECOME   A   VEGETARIAN 

The  fact  that  many  people  abstain  from  flesh  food  alto- 
gether, and  maintain  their  full  vigor,  is  good  proof  that  the 
eating  of  flesh-meat  is  not  essential  to  either  life  or  health. 
But  those  accustomed  all  their  life  to  the  use  of  meat  may 
need  to  use  a  little  caution  in  making  a  change  to  a  vege- 
tarian diet.  A  good  way  to  begin  might  be  to  limit  one's  self 
at  first  to  the  use  of  meat  once  or  twice  a  week,  discarding 
it  as  better  foods  are  substituted.  The  British  Vegetarian 
Society,  in  "  How  to  Begin,"  gives  the  following  sugges- 
tions for  those  desiring  to  make  this  change :  — 

1.  Steadily  persevere. 

2.  Use  Variety. —  Nature  afifords  the  most  bountiful  abundance. 
Have  something  new  on  your  table  frequently,  especially  fruits. 

3.  Choose  foods  which  compel  mastication. 

4.  Drink  Little. —  If  fruits  be  used  plentifully  —  condiments, 
hot  foods,  and  stimulants  avoided,  and  frequently  bathing  prac- 
tised—  little  drink  will  be  required. 

5.  Prefer  natural  to  manufactured  foods. 

6.  Avoid  Excess. —  Most  people  eat  too  much ;  a  smaller  quan- 
tity of  food,  well  masticated,  will  nourish  and  sustain  the  sys- 
tem best. 

7.  Eat  Seldom. —  Not  more  than  thrice  daily.  "  Little  and 
often  "  is  an  unwise  maxim  for  any  healthy  person.  And  if  you 
wish  sound  sleep,  and  an  appetite  for  breakfast,  avoid  suppers. 

8.  Let  your  food  he  attractively  prepared. 

g.  See  That  Your  Life  he  Right  in  Other  Respects. —  Eat  food 
which  is  pure  of  its  kind,  agreeably  prepared,  at  right  times, 
and  in  right  quantities;  breathe  pure  air  by  night  and  by  day; 
take  physical  exercise  (if  possible  in  the  open  air)  daily;  and 
practise  strict   cleanliness. 

10.  Get  Mind  and  Body  in  Harmony. —  Remember  that  man's 
physical  condition,  and  the  state  of  his  spi  itual  and  mental 
faculties  are  closely  and  mutually  inter-dependent.  It  is,  there- 
fore, a  primary  essential  to  keep  these  also  in  health;  and  to 
see  that  they  be  usefully,  tranquilly,  and  constantly  occupied 
and  cultivated. 

VEGETARIANISM    IN    LONDON 

Vegetarianism  has  worked  an  improvement,  and  its  many 
restaurants  in  London  show  how  the  taste  for  this  diet  has 
been  on  the  increase  of  late.  One  very  great  and  undeniable 
advantage  in  the  teaching  of  this  school  is  the  showing  us 
how    many    foods    we    possess,    and    how    few,    comparatively 


no  A   Friend  in  the  Kitchen 

speaking,  we  have  used.  Also,  it  proves  to  us  how  much 
cheaper  we  could  live  by  utilizing  all  the  foods  at  our  com- 
mand except  meat,  and  abstaining  from   it. —  Mrs.  Beeton. 

RULES   FOR   DYSPEPTICS 

Dyspepsia,  or  indigestion,  is  coming  to  be  so  general 
as  to  demand  serious  attention.  The  following  rules  will  be 
found  valuable  to  those  suffering  with  this  complaint :  — 

1.  Eat  slowly,  chewing  the  food  very  thoroughly,  even 
more  so,  if  possible,  than  is  required  in  health.  The  more  time 
the  food  spends  in  the  mouth,  the  less  it  will  need  to  spend 
in  the  stomach. 

2.  Avoid  drinking  at  meals;  at  most,  take  a  few  sips  of 
warm  drink  at  the  close  of  the  meal,  if  the  food  is  very  dry. 

3.  In  general,  dyspeptic  stomachs  manage  dry  food  better 
than  that  containing  much  fluid. 

4.  Eat  neither  very  hot  nor  very  cold  food.  The  best 
temperature  is  about  that  of  the  body.  Avoid  exposure  to  cold 
after  eating. 

5.  Be  careful  to  avoid  excess  in  eating.  Eat  no  more  than 
the  wants  of  the  system  require.  Sometimes  less  than  is  really 
needed  must  be  taken  when  the  digestion  is  very  weak. 
Strength  depends  not  on  what  is  eaten,  but  on  what  is  digested. 

6.  Never  take  violent  exercise,  'either  mental  or  physical, 
just  before  or  just  after  a  meal.  Do  not  go  to  sleep  immedi- 
ately after   eating. 

7.  Do  not  eat  more  than  three  times  a  day,  and  make  the 
last  meal  very  light.  For  many  dyspeptics  two  meals  are 
better  than  more. 

8.  Avoid  eating  two  meals  too  close  together,  as  this  is 
one  of  the  most  prolific   causes   of  indigestion. 

9.  Observe  regularity  in  eating;  do  not  eat  between  meals. 
ID.  Never  eat  when  very  tired,  whether  exhausted  from  men- 
tal or  physical  labor.     Rest  first. 

11.  Never  eat  when  the  mind  is  worried,  or  the  temper  is 
ruffled,  if  possible  to  avoid  doing  so. 

12.  Eat  only  food  that  is  easy  of  digestion,  avoiding  com- 
plicated and  indigestible  dishes,  and  taking  from  but  one  to 
three  kinds  at  a  meal. 

13.  Omit  a  meal  occasionally,  or  fast  a  day.  This  will  give 
the  stomach  time  to  rest  and  recuperate,  and  will  be  found 
beneficial. 

14.  If  the  stomach  or  bowels  feel  weak  or  tender,  apply  hot 
fomentations  over  them. 

15.  Most  persons  will  be  benefited  by  the  use   of  oatmeal, 


A  Friend  in  the  Kitchen 


111 


Graham  flour,  cracked  wheat,  whole  wheat  flour,  and  other 
whole-grain  preparations,  though  many  will  find  it  necessary 
to   avoid  vegetables,  especially  when   fruits   are   taken. 


THE     PULSE     IN     HEALTH 


PER  MIN. 

At  birth   150-130 

One  month   140-120 

Six  months 130 

One  year   120-108 

Two  years  .  . . iio-ioo 


PER  MIN. 

.    100-90 


Three  years    

Seven  years   i^o 

Fourteen  years    85-80 

Adult  age    75-70 

Old  age   65-60 


WEIGHTS     AND     MEASURES     FOR     THE     KITCHEN 

3  teaspoonfuls i  tablespoonful 

16   tablespoonfuls    i  cupful 

pint 

quart 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

ounces 

ounce 

ounce 

ounce 

cupful 

cupful 


cupfuls about 

4  cupfuls 

2  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar     ... 

•3  cupfuls  brown  sugar    

2  cupfuls  of  butter    

2  cupfuls  of  flour  or  oatmeal    .  •  •  . 

4  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour   

I  pint  of  liquid   

10  eggs  

I  egg     

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  sugar   . 

2  rounding  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
I  tablespoonful   of  butter    

5  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
7  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar 


HOUSEHOLD     HINTS 


Every  housewife  should  take  pride  in  keeping  her  home  neat 
and  tidy.     "  Order  is  heaven's  first  law." 

Sinks  and  drains  should  be  frequently  cleaned  and  disin- 
fected. 

Dish-cloths  should  always  be  washed  out  after  using;  other- 
wise they  are  liable  to  become  foul  and  full  of  germs. 

After  washing  the  dishes,  pour  over  them  scalding  water, 
and  wipe  quickly  with  a  clean  dry  cloth.  This  insures  clean- 
liness, and  gives  a  nice  polish. 

Scour  steel  knives  after  each  meal. 

Sweep  out  the  corners,  and  under  the  tables  and  chairs  as 
well  as  the  middle  of  the  room.  "  Dirt  may  be  hated,  but  should 
never  be  hidden." 

Pare  vegetables  and  fruits  thin;  study  how  to  use  left-over 
foods;  save  the  bread  crumbs  for  puddings  and  scalloped  vege- 
tables. "  Gather  up  the  fragments  that  remain,  that  nothing  be 
lost." 


INDEX  TO  DEPARTMENTS 

PAGE 

Importance  of   Good   Cooking         ......       4 

Soups ^ 

Cereals  .  .         .  .         .         .         .         .         .         .13 

Toasts         ..........  19 

Breads    ...........     22 

Fruits 35 

Vegetables      ..........     47 

Salads  and  Salad  Dressings     ......         59 

Substitutes  for  Meats  ........     61 

Eggs (i^ 

Omelets  .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .69 

Puddings     ..........  70 

Custards  and  Creams    ........     76 

Sauces        .         ...         .         .         .         .         .         .         .         78 

Pies 81 

Cakes 87 

Wholesome  Drinks 91 

Specially  Prepared  Health  Foods     ......         94 

Simple  Dishes  for  the  Sick  .......     98 

Food  for  Infants        ........        loi 

Miscellaneous         .........   102 

A  Week's  Menu 105 

Sabbath  Dinners    . 106 

Food  Combinations     .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .        107 

Time  Required  to  Digest  Various  Foods         ....   107 

Nutritive  Value  of  Foods  .         .         .         .         ...       .108 

How  TO  Become  a  Vegetarian         ......   109 

Rules  for  Dyspeptics         .         .         .         .         .         .         .110 

The  Pulse  in  Health   ........   iii 

Weights  and  Measures  for  the  Kitchen  ....        iii 

FIousehold  Hints  .........  iii 


AUi  39    \^<ib 


J 


