%&%&^>*&%& 


; 


C641.5 

F885w 

1972 


H    ^T)r.    Saw*  I     R.    Kei'J's     &"c4"n 

S*k    on   ih^L    Ujj/a/i    Cress  #6  *^   ° n~ 

Stfi-./l,  1111 .    Hfpv<is<±     mewb-e,/   of 


- 


The  Past  .  .  . 

First  Printing  1951 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

PRESENTED  BY 


L.B. 

Pope 

C641. 
F885v> 
1972 

5 
f 

UNIVERSITY  OF  N.C.  AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


00030715771 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
THE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


Friedland  Cook  Book 


.,' 


i»*- 


jSfrahlanh  (iHorabtan  (ftljnrcl] 


Founded    1771 


Organized    1780 


iMtrtftnn 


To  the  memory  of  those  families  of  courage  and  faith  who  settled 
and  founded  Friedland  Community  so  long  ago,  who  knew  hardship  and 
want,  who  experienced  privation  and  suffering,  but  whose  hunger  for 
knowledge  and  worship  was  undaunted,  we  humbly  dedicate  this  book. 


Compiled  by  Members  of 

WOMAN'S    AUXILIARY 
FRIEDLAND    MORAVIAN    CHURCH 

Route  6  (High  Point  Road) 
Winston-Salem,  N.  C. 


•ir    a 


1951 
First  Edition 


1 

J 

<3 


Jhttrnhurtton 


The  Women  who  have  devoted  their  time  to  the  compilation  o)  the 
contents  of  this  book  have  the  satisfaction  of  presenting  the  results  of  their 
labors  to  the  public.  The  book  is  published  by  the  WOMAN'S  AUXI- 
LIARY OF  FRIEDLAND  MORAVIAN  CONGREGATION  and  is  a 
collection  of  favorite  recipes  of  members  of  Friedland  Church,  former 
members  and  ministers'  wives,  and  recipes  copied  from  deceased  members' 
cook  books.  The  recipes  herein  have  been  tested  by  the  submitters.  We 
express  our  appreciation  to  each  person  zvho  sent  in  a  recipe. 

We  express  our  thanks  to  the  advertisers  without  whose  assistance 
this  book  could  not  have  been  published.  We  also  acknozvledgc  our  i)i- 
debteduess  to  the  anonymous  contributors  for  their  interest  and  help. 

The  following  pages  represent  the  work  and  experience  of  many  ex- 
cellent cooks  and  we  hope  those  who  read  these  pages  will  learn  to  treasure 
the  results  of  some  recipe  as  have  numerous  women  in  our  fetlozvship. 
This  labor  of  love  on  our  part  and  your  purchase  of  the  book  arc  intended 
to  help  reach  the  goal  of  a  new  building  for  Christian  Learning  and  Wor- 
ship. 


•  --^jvc^-d  ssaxt?^-* 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  -  PAST  SECTION 

Beverages 5 

Breeds   8 

Candies   16 

Cakes  and  Frostings  19 

Cookies   45 

Fruits  and  Vegetables  53 

Meats  and  Meat  Substitutes  57 

Pastries  and  Deserts  67 

Salads    84 

(For  Present  Section  See  Page  90) 


Beverages 

LOVE  FEAST  COFFEE 

3  gallons  water  1    lb.  coffee 

1   quart  milk  2  lbs.  sugar 

Let  the  water  come  to  a  boil;  drop  the  coffee  (which  has  been  placed 
in  a  cloth  bag)  into  the  boiling  water  and  reduce  heat;  let  stand 
without  boiling  for  10  to  15  minutes,  stirring  the  bag  through  the 
water  several  times.  Remove  the  coffee  bag.  Add  sugar  and  dis- 
solve. Add  milk.  Keep  hot  until  ready  to  serve. 

James  Teague  and   Henry   Reed 


RUSSIAN  TEA  NO.  1 

(40  people) 

IV2  gallons  tea  (medium)  1  box  whole  cloves 

4  to  5  lbs.  sugar  4  sticks  cinnamon 
18  oranges  (broken  in  pieces) 

12  lemons 

Make  tea  as  for  serving.  Tie  cloves  and  cinnamon  sticks  in  bag  and 
boil  10  to  15  minutes.  Juice  oranges  and  lemons.  Boil  about  10 
lemon  rinds  and  as  many  orange  rinds  as  you  like  for  15  minutes. 
Strain  all  ingredients,  mix  in  large  container;  leave  cloves  in  bag, 
keep  in  tea  4  or  5  hours  after  everything  has  been  added.  Serve 
hot  or  cold.  This  is  better  made  the  day  before  served. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Pulliam 


RUSSIAN  TEA  NO.  2 

Larger  Quantity 

2  qts.  boiling  water  8 

1  cup  sugar  4 

V2  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice  2 

1  orange,  grated  rind  and  juice  4 
2/3  teaspoon  whole  cloves  2  2/3 

2  sticks  cinnamon,  broken  in  pieces  8 
2  teaspoons  tea  8 
1  can  pineapple  juice  1 

Put  water  in  graniteware  kettle.  Add  sugar,  lemon,  orange,  spices 
and  steep  20  minutes.  Strain  boiling  water  and  spices  over  the  tea 
and  let  stand  5  minutes,  then  strain.  Put  sprig  of  mint  or  cherry  in 
each  cup. 

Mrs.  O.  E.  Simpson 

-5- 


CRANBERRY  PUNCH 

IVi  lbs.  cranberries  V2  cup  lemon  juice 

2  quarts  water  1  cup  orange  juice 

8  whole  cloves  IV2  lbs.  sugar  (to  suit  taste) 

Boil  cranberries,  water  and  spices  until  cranberries  are  soft.  Run 
through  colander.  Add  sugar  and  juices.  Add  little  water.  Makes  15 
cups.  Good  drink  served  hot  or  cold.  Appropriate  for  Christmas  as 
it  is  a  bright  red  drink. 

Mrs.  F.  Murray  White 

CHILDREN'S  PARTY  PUNCH 

1    cup  hot  water  Juice  of  3  or  4  lemons 

V2  package  strawberry  gelatin  (3/4    cups) 

V4  cup  sugar  Cracked   ice 
2V2  cups  cold  water 

Add  hot  water  to  gelatin  and  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Add  lemon 
juice.  Chill  or  pour  over  cracked  ice;  serve  with  colored  straws. 
Garnish  with  lemon  or  orange  slices.  Serves  4  to  6. 

Mrs.  Paul  Mosteller 


PEPTAIL 

Juice  of  one  orange  1   cup  milk 

1   egg  crushed  ice 

Beat  egg  white,  add  yellow;  beat  again.  Add  milk  and  ice,  sweeten 
to  taste.  Add  orange  juice.  Stir  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Bobby  Snipes 

PINEAPPLE  RASPBERRYADE 

1   cup  water  1    cup  canned  raspberry  juice 

1  cup  canned  crushed  pineapple      Juice  of   1    lemon 

Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Serve  with  ginger  ale  cubes. 

Mrs.  John  Johnson 


LEMONADE 

3   1/3  cups  cold  water  2/3  cup  lemon  juice 

2/3  cup  sugar 

Make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  1/3  of  the  water.  Cool  and  add  re- 
maining water  and  fruit  juice.  Serve  with  generous  quantities  of 
crushed  ice. 

Miss  Jane  Hine 


FRUIT  PUNCH 

3  cups  strong  tea  6  cups  pineapple  juice 

T/2  cups  sugar  in  tea  1    bottle  cherries 

Juice  of   1    lemon  1   small  bottle  ginger  ale 
3  cups  orange   juice 

Add  ginger  ale  and  cherries  just  before  serving.  Serves  15  to  20. 

Mrs.   Bobby  Snipes 


HOT  APPLE  SPICE 

2  tall  cans  apple  juice  1   teaspoon  allspice,  ground 

1   pint  orange  juice  2  teaspoons  whole  cloves 

1    cup  sugar  2  sticks  cinnamon 
1   teaspoon  cinnamon,  ground 

Tie  spices  together  in  cloth  bag  and  drop  in  apple  juice.  Add  orange 
juice  and  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  simmer  one  hour.  Remove 
spice  bag.  The  flavor  is  improved  by  making  a  day  before  serving. 
Chill.  Reheat  to  boiling  point  just  before  serving. 

Miss  Barbara  Hine 


BANANA  MILK  SHAKE 

1   ripe  banana  1   cup  milk 

Slice  bananas  into  bowl  and  beat  with  egg  beater  until  creamy  and 

smooth.  Add  milk  and  serve,  sweetened  to  taste. 

For  frosted  milk  shake:  Add  vanilla  ice  cream. 

For  banana  chocolate  milk  shake:  Add   IV2  tsp.  chocolate  syrup. 

Yield:  1   large  or  2  medium  size  drinks. 

Miss  Jane  Hine 


-7- 


Breads 

■ 

LIQUID  OR  POTATO  YEAST 

Boii  eight  medium  size  Irish  potatoes,  peel  and  mash  very  fine.  Add 
one  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  V2  cup  sugar,  2  level  tbs.  salt  and 
1  yeast  cake.  Put  this  mixture  into  a  bowl  and  cover.  Set  in  warm 
place  (85  to  90  degrees)  for  five  hours.  Then  put  into  a  quart  jar 
with  lid  but  use  no  jar  rubber.  Keep  in  a  cold  place  and  use  when 
twenty-four  hours  old.  One  cup  of  this  yeast  will  raise  one  quart 
of  flour  very  quickly.  Shake  well  before  using.  When  making  a 
second  quantity  of  yeest,  use  a  cup  of  old  yeast  as  a  starter,  instead 
of  dry  yeast. 

Miss  Ella  Stewart 

LIGHT  ROLLS 

V2  package  yeast  Vi  cup  cooked  potatoes 

V4  cup  warm  water  V2  cup  warm  sweet  milk 

V2  cup  shortening  1    egg 

2/3  cup  white  sugar  1   tsp.  salt 

Mash  potatoes;  add  shortening,  salt,  and  sugar.  Mix  well.  Add 
egg  and  mix.  Add  milk.  Put  yeast  in  warm  water  and  mix  together. 
Add  enough  flour  to  make  medium  dough. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Canada 

ROLLS 

1  tsp.  salt  V2  cup  lard 

V2  cup  sugar 

Scald  with  V/2  cups  water.  When  luke-warm,  mix  1  package  yeast 
in  I/2  cup  warm  water.  Add  4  cups  flour  and  2  eggs.  Beat  well, 
about  5  minutes.  Add  4  more  cups  flour  and  1  tsp.  salt.  Mix  and 
let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Make  into  rolls  and  rise.  Bake  in  hot 
oven. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Reed,  Jr. 

BUTTERMILK  ROLLS 

Mix  together  1   tsp.  salt 

3  tbs.  sugar  3  tbs.  shortening 

3/4  cup   lukewarm  thick  Combine  in  mixture 

buttermilk  cake  of  compressed  yeast  with 

Va   tsp.   soda  Va  cup  lukewarm  water 

Let  stand  for  a  few  minutes.  Stir  until  yeast  is  dissolved.  Add  flour 
until  dough  is  easy  to  handle.  (Approximately  3V2  cups.)  Let  stand 
10  minutes.  Knead  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Shape.  Cover  and  let 
rise  from  1  to  VA  hours.  Bake. 

Mrs.   Ivey  Hine 

-8- 


FEATHERLY  BUTTERMILK  ROLLS 

Soften  1  cake  yeast  in  2  tbs.  lukewarm  water.  Add  2  cups  butter- 
milk at  room  temperature.  Beat  in  2  cups  flour.  Let  rise  in  warm 
place  until  bubbley  (about  two  hours).  Cream  1/3  cup  shortening, 
1/3  cup  sugar;  add  gradually  to  batter.  Sift  together  4  cups  flour, 
2  tsp.  salt,  V2  tsp.  soda,  1  tsp.  baking  powder.  Add  to  batter  and 
mix  well.  Roll  1"  thick  on  floured  board.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter. 
Place  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Let  rise  in  warm  place  until  double 
in  size  (about  one  hour).  Brush  lightly  with  melted  butter.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven.  Makes  about  2  dozen. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Knott 


REFRIGERATOR  ROLLS  NO.  1 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  tsp.  sugar  dissolved  with  yeast 

V2  cup  sugar  14  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  tbs.  salt  1   tsp.  sugar 

Va  cup  shortening  2  eggs,  well  beaten 

2  cakes  or  pkgs.  yeast  8  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour 

Mix  boiling  water,  sugar,  salt,  shortening  together;  cool  to  luke- 
warm. Soften  yeast  in  lukewarm  water;  add  1  tsp.  sugar;  stir  into 
first  mixture;  add  beaten  eggs.  Stir  in  4  cups  flour;  beat  thoroughly. 
Stir  in  remaining  4  cups  flour;  blend  thoroughly  to  a  smooth  dough. 
Knead  slightly.  Place  in  a  large  covered  bowl  and  store  in  refrigera- 
tor until  needed.  Shape  into  desired  rolls  and  let  rise  until  double 
in  bulk,  about  one  hour.  Bake  in  hot  over  (425  degrees).  Held  at  low 
even  temperature  and  kept  covered,  the  dough  may  be  kept  as  long 
as  6  to  7  days. 

Mrs.  Norman  Willard 


REFRIGERATOR  ROLLS  NO.  2 

V2  cup  lard  V/a  cups  lukewarm  water 

2  tbs.  sugar  1   yeast  cake 

1   tsp.  salt  4  cups  flour  (plain) 
1   egg  —  well  beaten 

Cream  the  lard,  sugar  and  salt  and  add  well  beaten  egg.  Add  a  cup 
of  lukewarm  water  and  dissolve  the  yeast  in  Va  cup  water.  Add  to 
first  mixture.  Add  flour  gradually  and  knead  this  mixture  well. 
Place  the  dough  in  the  refrigerator  until  three  hours  before  ready 
to  bake.  Roll  out  and  cut  rolls  and  let  rise  at  room  temperature. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Kimball 

-9- 


BRAN  MUFFINS 

1  cup   milk  1  cup  sifted  flour 

2  tbs.  shortening  3  tsp.   baking   powder 
Va  cup  sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  egg,  well  beaten  1  cup  Nabisco  100%  Bran 

Add  Nabisco  100%  bran  to  milk  and  let  soak  five  minutes.  Mean- 
while cream  together  shortening  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  egg  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Add  to  bran  mixture.  Sift  together  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt;  add  to  bran  mixture  and  stir  only  until  blended. 
Fill  greased  muffin  pans  2/3  full.  Bake  in  hot  oven  400  degrees 
25  to  30  minutes. 

Mrs.   Dallas  Chappell 


CORN  MUFFINS 

1   cup  corn  meal  1   tbs.  lard  or  shortening 

1    cup  flour  2  cups  sweet  milk 

1  tsp.  salt  1    tsp.  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  1    egg 

Sift  corn  meal  and  flour  and  baking  powder;  melt  shortening  and 
add  to  eggs  and  milk  which  have  been  beaten  with  egg  beater  or 
fork.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  well  greased  muffin  pans.  Bake  about 
400  degrees  for  about  20  minutes  or  until  brown  as  you  like. 

Mrs.  B.  L.  Stewart 


OATMEAL  -  ALL-BRAN  CORN  MUFFINS 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

1  cup  oatmeal  (uncooked)  IV2  tsp.  salt 

V2  cup  bran  cereal  IV2  cups   milk 

1   cup  corn  meal  2  eggs 

IV2  cups  flour  Va  cup  molasses 

4  tsp.  baking  powder  2  tbs.  melted  butter 

Combine  all  dry  ingredients,  and  mix  well.  Add  milk,  eggs  and 
mix;  add  molasses  and  lastly  add  butter.  Spoon  into  well  greased 
muffin  tins  and  bake  in  400  degree  oven  about  20  minutes  or  until 
nicely  browned. 

Mrs.  Colon  Hine 

-10- 


CRACKLSN  CORN  BREAD 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

1    cup  cracklin  2  cups  corn  meai 

I/2  cup  buttermilk  (or  clabbered  14  tsp.  soda 

milk)  1   tsp.  Baking  Powder 

V2  cup  water  1  tsp.  salt 

Mix  corn   meal,   soda,   baking   powder,   and   salt;   stir   in   milk   and 
water,  then  add  cracklin.  Bake  in  hot  oven  400  degrees  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Roy  Pulliam 


GOLDEN  CORNCAKE 

3/4  cup  corn  meal  3/4  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  flour  1   cup  milk 

1/3  cup  sugar  1   egg  —  well  beaten 

3  tsp.  baking  powder  2  tbs.  shortening  —  melted 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients;  add  milk,  egg,  and  shortening;  bake  in 
shallow  buttered  pan  20  minutes  in  hot  oven  425  degrees. 

Mrs.  Jack  McCuiston 


BAKED  CORN  BREAD 

1  cup  milk  1   cup  corn  meal 

1   egg  V2  cup  flour 

IV2  tsp.  baking  powder  1   tsp.  salt 

1    tbs.  melted  butter 

Sift  together  dry  ingredients;  add  milk,  egg,  and  butter;  beat  thor- 
oughly. Bake  in  375  degree  oven  until  light  brown.  Serves  4. 

Mrs.  Colon  E.  Hine 


HUSH  PUPPIES 

TV2  cups  corn  meal  V2  cup  All-Purpose  flour 

1    small  onion  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  beaten  egg  1    tsp.  sugar 

3/4  cup  sweet  milk  V2  tsp.  salt 

Drop  about  1  tsp.  at  a  time  in  hot  fat.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Walter  W.  Hines 

-11- 


LOVEFEAST  CAKES 


2  gallons  flour 
4  cups  sugar 

1  cup  butter  or  lard 

2  tbs.  salt 

1   cup  mashed  potatoes 


4  eggs 

IV2  pint  risen  or  three  cakes  of 

yeast 
4  cups  luke  warm  water  — 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough 


Beat  eggs;  add  sugar,  butter,  salt,  and  potatoes;  then  add  yeast  and 
water;  stir  well;  fold  in  flour.  Work  until  it  is  smooth  with  the  palm 
of  your  hand.  When  light,  work  out  in  buns,  not  touching.  Let  it 
lighten;  then  bake  about  15  minutes.  Brush  with  cream  or  melted 
butter,  when  taken  out  of  the  stove.  This  will  make  about  45  buns. 

Miss  Ella  Stewart 


STRUMBENDLES  OR  TANGLE  BRITCHES 


2  cups  sugar  —  white 
4  eggs 

1  cup  milk  —  sweet 
V2  cup  butter 


Soda 

1  tsp.  nutmeg 

Flour  to  make  stiff  dough 


Roll  small  amount  at  time  cut  in  strips  2"x4".  Cut  small  slit  in  mid- 
dle of  strip  and  turn  one  end  through  slit.  Fry  in  deep  fat. 

From  Mrs.  C.  E.  Ebert's  Cook  Book 


DOUGHNUTS 


4  cups  flour 
4  tsp.  baking  powder 
V2  tsp.  salt 
14  tsp.  nutmeg 
1   cup  sugar 


2  eggs  —  well  beaten 
Va  tsp.  lemon  extract 
2  tbs.  melted  butter  or  other 

shortening 
1   cup  milk 


Sift  flour;  measure;  add  baking  powder,  salt  and  nutmeg  and  sift 
together.  Add  sugar  to  beaten  eggs.  Beat  thoroughly.  Add  lemon 
extract  and  shortening.  Add  flour  alternately  with  milk.  Mix  well 
after  each  addition. 

Knead  lightly  on  slightly  floured  board.  Roll  V2"  thick.  Cut  with 
doughnut  cutter.  Fry  in  deep  fat  about  370  degrees  until  golden 
brown.  Turn  often.  Makes  about  four  dozen.  Drain  on  unglazed 
paper;  when  cool,  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  If  you  let  this  dough  set 
about  10  minutes  after  mixed,  the  dough  will  roll  easier  and  won't 
need  but  very  little  flour  to  roll. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Reed,  Jr. 

-12- 


CINNAMON  FLOP 


1    large  tbs.  butter 
1  cup  granulated  sugar 
1    egg 
1  cup  milk 


2  cups  flour 

Vi  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar;  add  egg  and  stir  in  milk.  Mix  in  the 
flour  and  salt  and  last,  the  baking  powder.  Put  the  batter  in  greased 
pans;  sprinkle  generously  with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed 
with  a  little  granulated  sugar.  Dot  with  butter  and  bake.  This  takes 
only  5  minutes  to  mix  and  is  very  good  eaten  warm  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Glenn  Thomason 


SUGAR  CAKE  NO.  1 
(My  Own  Recipe) 


14  cups  flour 

6  egg  yolks 

2  whole  eggs 

VA  cups  sugar 

IV2  cups  top  milk  (scalded) 


3/4  cup   lard  and  butter  mixed 

in  half 
3V2  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  mashed  potatoes 

2  oz.  yeast  in  a  little  warm  water 


Leave  out  about  1  cup  of  flour  too  work.  Put  remaining  flour  in 
pan;  add  all  ingredients  and  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise  for  two  to 
three  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Work  out  about  I/2"  thick  over  pans 
and  let  rise  again.  Cover  top  with  brown  sugar  and  cinnamon  and 
dot  with  butter  and  lightly  sprinkle  with  cream.  Bake  in  400  degree 
oven  15  to  20  minutes  until  brown. 

Mrs.  Fred  Reed 


SUGAR  CAKE  NO.  2 


2  eggs  1  cup  sweet  milk  —  warm 

1   yeast  cake  3/4  cup  potato  water 

3/4  cup  butter  and  lard  1   Irish  potato 

1   cup  white  sugar  2  tsp.  salt 

8  cups  flour 

Boil  and  mash  potatoes;  add  sugar,  butter  and  lard  while  still  hot. 
Add  potato  water,  warm  milk  and  yeast  softened  in  !4  cup  warm 
water  in  which  1  tsp.  sugar  has  been  added.  Add  eggs  and  flour 
and  let  rise  about  2  hours.  Pour  into  greased  pan  and  pat  with 
floured  hand  to  1/3"  thickness.  Let  rise  again  and  sprinkle  top  with 
brown  sugar.  Sprinkle  with  cinnamon  and  dot  with  butter.  Drop 
pure  cream  scantly  over  top.  Bake  about  20  minutes  in  350  degree 
oven  or  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  N.  Rothrock 

-13- 


GRiDDLECAKES 

VA  cups  flour,  sifted  1  egg  beaten  until  light 

2V2  tsp.  baking  powder  3/4  cup  milk  (or  more) 

3  tbs.  sugar  3  tbs.  melted  butter 
3/4  tsp.  salt 

Have  milk  at  room  temperature  and  add  with  butter  to  egg.  Add 
dry  ingredients  sifted  together  and  stir  vigorously,  adding  more 
milk,  if  necessary,  to  make  batter  just  thin  enough  to  pour.  Do  not 
over  beat,  lumps  do  not  harm.  Heat  griddle  and  drop  batter  by 
spoonfuls.  When  full  of  bubbles,  lift  with  pancake  turner  and  brown 
on  other  side.  Serve  with  butter  and  syrup.  Makes  12  medium  sized 
griddlecakes. 

Mrs.  Jack  McCuiston 


DUMPLINGS 

(For  Chicken) 

2  cups  flour  3  tbs.  lard 

2  tsp.  baking  powder,  level 

Mix  with  water  about  like  biscuit  dough.  Roll  thin  and  cut. 

Mrs.   Luther  Hine 

CHICKEN  DUMPLINGS 

3  cups  flour  1    tsp.  salt 

Combine  and  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make  soft  dough.  Mix 
well  and  roll  thin.  Drop  in  boiling  chicken  broth.  Boil  for  15  or  20 
minues.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Marandy  Reid 

TURKEY  DRESSING 

10  cups  stale  white  bread  Vi  tsp.  black  pepper 

6  cups  corn  bread  V2  cup  chopped  onion 

hot  water  or  broth  2  cups  chopped  celery 

2  tbs.  sage  or  poultry  seasoning        (almost)  1   cup  bacon  grease  or 

fat  from  turkey  or  butter 

Crumble  bread  and  moisten  with  enough  hot  water  or  broth  to 
soften  crumbs.  Mix  in  all  other  ingredients.  Stuff  turkey.  Bake  re- 
mainder of  dressing  and  use  as  garnish  for  turkey  platter.  (The  sea- 
soning can  be  changed  to  taste.) 

Mrs.   Raymond   Ebert 

-14- 


NOODLES 

2  eggs  1   tbs.  butter 

Va  tsp.  salt  Flour 

Beat  the  eggs  without  separating;  stir  in  flour  until  stiff.  Knead 
with  the  hands  until  no  more  can  be  absorbed.  Roll  thin,  place  on 
cloth  to  dry;  turning  once  or  more  make  into  a  roll  and  cut  thin. 
Drop  into  2  quarts  of  boiling  chicken  or  beef  broth.  Let  cook  15  to 
20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Charlie  F.  Sapp 


■15- 


Candies 

CARAMEL  CANDY 

2  cups  sugar  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Vz  cup  corn  syrup  4  tablespoons  butter 

Vi  cup  milk  1    cup  cream  or  condensed  milk 

Cook  all  ingredients  except  vanilla  to  the  stiff  ball  stage.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  vanilla  and  pour  into  buttered  pan.  When  cold,  turn 
out  of  pan  and  cut  into  squares. 

Mrs.  Paul  Kimball 

COCONUT  CANDY 

1  tablespoon    butter  Vi  cup  shredded  coconut 

2  cups  brown  sugar  3/4  teaspoon  vanilla 
3/4  cup  evaporated  milk 

Melt  butter  in  heavy  saucepan,  add  sugar  and  milk.  Boil  without 
stirring  until  candy  will  form  a  soft  ball  (238  degrees).  Remove  from 
heat.  Cocl.   Beat  in  coconut  and  vanilla.   Drop  by  small  teaspoons 

onto  greased  plates. 

Mrs.  Ricks  Sink 

SEA  FOAM  CANDY 


3  cups  brown  sugar  2  egg  whites 

1   cup  water  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

1    tablespoon  vinegar  1  cup  nutmeats 

Mix  sugar,  water  and  vinegar  together  in  a  saucepan  and  boil  until 
a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  hard  ball  (265  degrees).  Do 
not  stir.  Remove  from  fire  and  pour  slowly  over  the  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites.  Beat  constantly  until  it  begins  to  get  stiff.  Fold  in  nuts 
and  vanilla  to  this  mixture  and  then  pour  into  a  buttered  pan  or 
drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  waxed  paper. 

Mrs.    Dallas  Chappell 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  NO.  1 

2  cups   light  brown  sugar  4  oz.   bitter  chocolate 

V-2  cup  milk  Ya   teaspoon   vanilla 

Butter  size  of  egg 

Boil  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  until  mixture  forms  soft  ball  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Take  from  fire  and  add  butter.  Beat  until 
thick.  Add  vanilla  just  before  turning  onto  buttered  platter  or  pan. 

Miss   Pena  Stewart 

-16- 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE  NO.  2 

2  cups  sugar  (white)  1    tablespoon   butter 

3/4  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  cocoa 

2  teaspoons  corn  syrup  1    teaspoon   vanilla 

Combine  sugar  with  cocoa  and  add  milk  and  syrup.  Cook.  Test  by 
dropping  small  amount  into  cold  water  to  form  a  ball.  Add  butter 
and  vanilla  and  beat  until  cool  and  stiff.  Pour  into  buttered  platter. 
One-half  cup  nuts  may  be  added  when  cool. 

Miss  Jo  Ann  Dixon 


PULLED  MINTS 

1    lb.  granulated  sugar  5  or  6  drops  of  oil  of  peppermint 

V-i  pint  of  water  Coloring   as   desired 

1/8  lb.  butter 

Cook  sugar,  water  and  butter  until  it  forms  hard  ball  when  drop- 
ped in  cold  water.  Pour  on  buttered  marble  slab.  When  cool  enough 
to  handle,  add  mint  and  coloring.  Pull  and  cut  with  scissors.  Place 
in  tin  box. 

Miss  Ethel  Thomason 


PEANUT  BRITTLE 

2   cups  white  sugar  1   cup  peanuts 

1    tablespoon   butter  1/8  teaspoon  salt 

V2  teaspoon  baking  soda 

Caramelize  sugar,  using  a  heavy  iron  frying  pan.  The  sugar  will 
look  like  thick  brown  Karo  syrup.  Remove  from  fire  immediately, 
add  salt,  peanuts,  baking  soda,  and  butter.  Use  wooden  spoon  and 
stir  only  until  blended.  Pour  quickly  in  a  thin  sheet  into  well  but- 
tered pan.  It  becomes  hard  almost  at  once.  Break  into  pieces. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Boyan 


DIVINITY  FUDGE 

2V2  cups  sugar  2  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites 

V2  cup  light  corn  syrup  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

V2  cup  water  1    cup  chopped   nuts 

Cook  sugar,  corn  syrup  and  water  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water.  Pour  half  of  it  slowly  over  egg  whites.  Return  to  heat  and 
cook  until  firm-ball  stage.  Add  to  egg  white  mixture,  beating  con- 
stantly. Add  vanilla.  Beat  until  mixture  holds  shape  when  dropped 
from  spoon.  Stir  in  nuts.  Swirl  from  teaspoon  onto  waxed  paper. 

Mrs.  Walter  Leary 
-17- 


PECAN  PENUCHE 

3  cups  light  brown  sugar  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  milk  1   cup  chopped  pecans 

2  tablespoons  butter 

Combine  sugar  and  milk  in  saucepan  and  cook,  stirring  constantly 
to  236  degrees  or  until  a  little  of  the  mixture  dropped  in  cold  water 
forms  a  soft  ball.  Remove  from  heat,  add  butter.  Set  aside  without 
stirring  until  the  candy  is  lukewarm.  Beat  until  thick  and  creamy. 
Add  vanilla  and  nuts  and  pour  into  greased  pan.  When  cold  cut 
into  squares. 

Walnuts,  peanuts,  cut  marshmallows,  raisins,  cut  dates  or  figs  or 
crystallized  ginger  may  be  substituted  for  the  pecans. 

Miss  Ella  Stewart 


PARADISE  ROLL 

1   cup  nuts  1   ib.  rolled  graham  crackers 

1    Ib.  dates,  chopped  V2  cup  cream 

1    Ib.  marshmallows,  cut  V2  cup  milk 

Mix  nuts,  dates,  marshmallows  with  graham  crackers.  Add  cream 
and  milk  and  mix.  Save  1  cup  cracker  crumbs  for  molding  loaf. 
Work  together  and  put  in  wax  paper  and  store  in  refrigerator  and 
allow  to  harden.  Slice  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  William  Hine 


-18- 


Cakes  and  Frostings 


ICE  BOX  FRUIT  CAKE 


1    lb.  Graham  crackers 
1    lb.  marshmellows 
1    lb.  pecans 
Vt.  lb.  mixed  fruit 


V2  lb.  raisins 

1  large  can  milk 

2  small  bottles  of  cherries 


Roll  Crackers  into  crumbs.  Cut  marshmellows  in  small  pieces.  Add 
other  ingredients  and  mix.  Pack  in  graham  cracker  box  and  store 
in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Kimball 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  1 


3/4  cup  butter 

3  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1   cup  milk 

5  egg  whites 

1    lb.  white  raisins 

Vi  lb.  candied  pineapple 


Vz   lb.  candied  cherries 

V2  lb.  candied  orange  and  lemon 

peel 
V2  lb.  almonds 
V2  lb.  pecans 
V2  lb.  citron 
1  coconut 
V2  lb.  English  Walnuts 


Put  half  of  the  fruit  in  the  batter  and  half  in  the  filling. 
FILLING:  4  cups  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  V2   lb.   butter.   Boil   until  thick 
and  add   half  of  the  fruit.  When  cool,   spread  on   layers   and  top. 
Bake  in  4  wax  paper  lined  cake  pans. 

Mrs.  E.  M.  Hine,  Jr. 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  2 


1    lb.  white  raisins 

V2  lb.  citron 

Va  lb.  candied  pineapple 

V/a  cups  chopped  blanched 

almonds 
V2  cup  shredded  cocoanut 
3/4   cup   shortening 
1  cup  granulated  sugar 
3  tbs.  milk 


Va  tsp.  soda 

1  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

2  cups  pastry  or  cake  flour 
6  egg  whites,  beaten  stiff 

3  ozs.  lemon  peel 
3  ozs.  orange  peel 
Va   lb.  cherries 


Soak  with  raisins  in  cold  water  until  plump,  then  dry  thoroughly. 
Cut  the  citron  and  pineapple  into  pieces,  and  add  with  the  almonds 
and  coconut  to  the  raisins.  Cream  the  shortening  and  sugar  by 
hand  or  with  an  electric  beater  at  high  speed  until  thoroughly  blend- 
ed. Add  the  milk  and  sifted  dry  ingredients  by  hand  or  with  electric 
mixer  at  low  speed.  Fold  in  egg  whites  and  add  previously  mixed 
fruits.  Bake  one  hour  and  ten  minutes  in  moderate  oven  of  350 
degrees.  This  recipe  makes  about  4  pounds. 

Mrs.  Samuel  J.  Tesch 


■19- 


WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

4  cups  flour  Vz  lb.  orange  peel 

1   tsp.  baking  powder  V*  lb.  lemon  peel 

V2  tsp.  soda  V2  lb.  candied  pineapple 

V2  tsp.   salt  V2  lb.  candied  cherries 

I/2  lb.  butter  1    lb.  white  raisins 

IV2  cups  sugar  1    lb.  almonds 

10  egg  whites  1    tbs.   lemon   juice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  lemon  juice  and  then  dry  ingredients 
sifted  together.  Add  fruits,  and  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  3  hours  at 
250  degrees  and  then  2  hours  at  275  degrees. 

From  Mrs.  C.  E.  Ebert's  Cook  Book 


FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  1 

V2  lb.  butter  1    lb.  dates 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1   lb.  grapes 

7  eggs  V2  lb.  citron 

1  cup  buttermilk  (or  grape  juice)      Vz  lb.  candied  pineapple 

1  tsp.  soda  V2  lb.  candied  cherries 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  V2  lb.  candied  lemon  peel 
Va  tsp.  salt  V2  lb.  candied  orange  peel 

1  tsp.  vanilla  2  cups  English  or  black  walnuts 
4  cups  flour  2  cups  pecan  meats 

2  boxes  raisins  1    lb.  figs,  if  desired 

Cut  ail  fruit  and  nuts  fine.  Mix  with  batter  and  bake  in  mold  pans 
4  or  4V2  hours  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  M.  E.  Ferguson 


FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  2 

1   cup  butter  V2  lb.  cherries  —  candied 

1  cup  white  sugar  V2  lb.  pineapple  —  candied 
Va  cup  pineapple  juice  2  oz.  ginger 

5  eggs  —  beaten  V2  lb.  nuts 

2  cups  flour  Vi  lb.  white  raisins 
IV2  tsp.  baking  powder  V2  lb.  fresh  coconut 

V2  lb.  citron  —  candied  1/4  lb.  figs  and  1/4  lb.  dates 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar;  add  well  beaten  eggs;  add  pineapple 
juice.  Mix  well;  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together.  Reserve  1/3 
of  flour  before  adding  baking  powder  to  flour,  fruit,  and  nuts.  Beat 
dough  until  fluffy.  After  flouring  fruits  and  nuts,  blend  in  dough, 
mixing  well.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  300  degrees  for  3  hours.  Makes 

6  lb.  cake. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Rothrock 

-20- 


FRUIT  CAKE  NO.  3 

3/4  lb.  butter  1  lb.  dates 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  1   lb.  figs 

8  eggs  1  lb.  mixed  citrus  fruits 

2  lbs.  raisins  V2  lb.  molasses 

1  lb.  currents  1  cup  grape  juice 
IV2  lbs.  nuts                                            4  cups  flour 

2  lbs.  citron 

Mix  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  (one  at  a  time).  Mix  well.  Add  the  mo- 
lasses, grape  juice.  Take  a  small  amount  of  flour  and  mix  with  the 
fruit  and  nuts.  Add  the  flour  and  fruit  together  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  until  done.  Makes  about  15  lbs. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Reed,  Jr. 

LIGHT  OR  DARK  FRUIT  CAKE 

(Original) 

V2  lb.  sugar  —  brown  2  tsp.  cloves 

3/4  lb.  flour  1    lb.  nut  meats 

3  eggs  1    or  2  packages  dates 
Vi  cup  butter  IV2  lbs.  raisins 

2/3  cup  buttermilk  1  lb.  watermelon  rind  (sweet 

2/3  tsp.  soda  pickles) 

V2  pint  jelly  1   lb.  cherries 

V2  cup  grape  or  other  fruit  juice  1    lb.  pineapple  —  candied 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

Cream  butter;  add  sugar;  beat  in  jelly  and  then  beaten  eggs.  Add 
spices  to  flour  and  soda  to  buttermilk.  Add  alternately  with  dry  in- 
gredients. Add  one  cup  of  the  flour  to  fruits  and  nuts  and  add  all 
together  and  stir  thoroughly.  Pour  in  lined  pans  and  bake  in  250  de- 
gree oven.  Line  pans  with  about  3  thickness  of  heavy  brown  and 
one  waxed  paper,  greased.  If  a  light  cake  is  desired,  leave  out  spices 
and  use  white  raisins. 

Mrs.  M.  N.  Rothrock 

DATE  CAKE 

1  lb.  seedless  dates  1  tsp.  baking  powder  sifted  with 

2  lbs.  English  walnuts  flour 

4  eggs  1   tsp.  soda  in  V2  cup  boiling 
1  cup  sugar  (white)  water 

IV2  cups  flour  small   bottle  maraschino  cherries 

V2  cup  butter  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  dates,  hot  waTer,  and  soda.  With  nuts  add  well  beaten  egg 
yolks,  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  flour  and  dry  ingredients  and  add  to 
mixture.  Beat  egg  whites  stiff  and  fold  in.  Cook  in  slow  oven  two 
hours.  Cook  in  loaf  pan. 

Mrs.  F.  Murray  White 

-21- 


DARK  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  lb.   butter  1   lb.  figs 

1  lb.  sugar  1   lb.  dates 

1  lb.  eggs  1    lb.  pineapple 

1  lb.  flour  1   box  seeded  raisins 

1  lb.  citron  Vi   lb.   shelled   pecans 

2  lbs.  mixed  fruits  (more  if  desired) 
1  lb.  cherries  V2  cup  grape  juice 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  one  at  a  time  unbeaten;  add 
flour.  Leave  out  some  of  the  fruit  before  cutting  the  rest  for  deco- 
ration. Add  all  the  fruit  which  has  been  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
work  in  batter  real  well.  This  makes  2  six  pound  cakes  or  can  be 
made  into  smaller  ones  if  desired.  Grease  and  line  bottom  of  pans 
with  wax  paper.  Steam  the  6  lb.  cakes  2Vi  hours  and  bake  one  and 
one-half  hours  in  250  degree  oven. 

Mrs.   Richard   H.   Reed 

JAPANESE  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  3  tsp.  baking  powder 
4  eggs  1    cup  chopped   nuts 

2  cups  sugar  I/2  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 
1    cup  milk  V2  lb.  seedless  raisins 
2V2  cups  flour  14  tsp.  cloves 

!4  tsp.  salt  !/4  tsp.  cinnamon 

Make  cake  batter  by  creaming  butter,  adding  beaten  eggs,  sugar, 
milk,  and  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Divide  in  two  parts,  add  to  one 
portion  the  nuts  and  vanilla  and  to  the  second  portion  the  raisins  and 
spice.  Bake  in  4  layers  in  moderate  oven.  Put  together  with  Japanese 
filling  using  Japanese  icing  on  top.  Bake  20  minutes  in  320  degree 
oven. 

Japanese  Icing 

1   cup  sugar  1   egg  white 

1/8  tsp.  cream  of  tartar  14  tsp.   almond  extract 

1/3  cup  water 

Cook  sugar,  cream  of  tartar  and  water  together  until  it  will  spin  a 
thread.  Pour  gradually,  beat  constantly  over  stiffly  beaten  egg 
whites.  Add  almond  extract  and  beat  until  thick. 

Japanese  Filling 

1    cup  grated  coconut  14  tsp.  salt 

1   cup  sugar  V2   cup   cornstarch 

1   cup  water  1/3  cup  lemon  juice 

Cook  coconut,  sugar,  water,  salt,  and  cornstarch  for  45  minutes  in 
double  boiler.  Add  lemon  juice  and  spread  while  hot  between  lay- 
ers of  cake. 

Mrs.  Howard  Reid 

-22- 


NUT  AND  DATE  CAKE 

1  lb.  English  walnuts  (in  hull)  1   cup  sugar 

1  lb.  pecans  V2  cup  butter  or  Crisco 

2  lbs.  dates  1   tsp.  baking  powder 

10c  bottle  cherries  V2  tsp.  soda  in  half  cup  boiling 

4  eggs  water 

1   cup  flour  1   tsp.  vanilla 

Pour  soda  in  boiling  water  over  dates  and  nuts.  Cream  sugar  and 
shortening.  Add  egg  yolks,  nuts  and  mix.  Add  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Pour  over  egg  whites  stiffly  beaten.  Last,  add  cherries. 
Bake  45  minutes  or  1  hour  in  moderate  oven  (325  degrees). 

Mrs.  Perry  Yokley 


ORANGE-DATE-NUT  CAKE 

Vi  cup  butter  1  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  nuts  (broken) 

2  eggs  1  tbs.  grated  orange  rind 
2/3  cup  milk  1  pkg.  dates   (chopped) 
2  cups  flour 

Mix  as  any  cake.  Bake  in  large  flat  pan.  (Raisins  or  pineapple  may 
be  substituted  for  the  dates). 

FILLING:  Mix  1  cup  sugar  with  juice  and  rind  of  1  orange.  Pour 
over  cake  whiie  hot  or  warm.  Delicious  served  with  whipped  cream 
or  ice  cream. 

AArs.  F.  Murray  White 


MiNCEMEAT  CAKE 

1    lb.  Mincemeat  1   cup  sugar 

1    box  seedless  raisins  2  egg  yolks 

1   cup  nutmeats  2  cups  flour 

1   tsp.  vanilla  1  tsp.  soda  in  1  tbs.  boiling  water 

V2  cup  melted  fat  2  egg  whites  —  beaten  stiff 

Mix  in  order  given  above.  Bake  in  a  mold  pan  and  line  pan  with 
wax  paper.  Bake  for  1   hour  30  minutes  at  325  degrees. 

Mrs.    Irvin   Branch 


BROWN  VELVET  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

Measure  IV2  cups  sifted  flour;  sift  with  1  tsp.  soda  and  V4  tsp.  salt. 
Dissolve  1  cup  sugar  in  1  cup  buttermilk;  add  one  egg  well  beaten. 
Blend  in  2  sqs.  melted  unsweetened  chocolate;  2  tbs.  melted  butter. 
Add  dry  ingredients.  Beat  after  each  addition;  add  1  tsp.  vanilla. 
Turn  into  buttered  pans.  Bake  35  minutes  in  moderate  oven  250  de- 
grees. This  makes  two  layers. 

Mrs.   Alvis    Reid 

-23- 


PINEAPPLE  ICE  BOX  CAKE 

Va   lb.  vanilla  wafers— crushed  1   small  can  diced  pineapple  — 

1   cup  sugar  drained 

Va  cup  butter  1   cup  chopped  nuts  (optional) 

Line  a  deep  loaf  pan  with  waxed  paper.  Put  in  a  layer  of  the  crush- 
ed wafers;  then  a  layer  of  the  other  ingredients  which  have  been 
creamed  together;  then  another  layer  of  wafer  crumbs,  and  so  on 
until  all  are  used,  having  the  top  layer  of  wafer  crumbs.  Pack  down 
hard  and  let  stand  overnight  in  the  refrigerator.  Turn  out,  slice, 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  may  be  made  24  hours  or  more 
in  advance  of  using. 

Miss  Ethel  Thomason 


BANANA  CAKE 

(Makes  2  8-inch  layers) 

2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1   teaspoon  baking  soda  2  eggs 

Va  teaspoon  saH  V/a  cups  sugar 

Va  cup  vinegar  Va  cup  shortening 

Va  cup  milk  1   cup  mashed  banana 

Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature.  Sift  flour,  baking  soda 
and  salt  together.  Combine  vinegar,  milk  and  vanilla.  Beat  eggs  and 
sugar  together  for  one  minute.  Add  flour  mixture,  shortening,  one- 
half  of  the  liquid  and  one-half  of  the  banana.  Stir  until  flour  is 
moistened.  Beat  vigorously  one  minute.  Add  remaining  liquid  and 
banana.  Beat  one  minute.  Turn  into  two  well-greased  8-inch  layer 
pans,  VA  inches  deep.  Bake  at  375  degrees  25  to  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Fred  Sowers 


MAHOGANY  CAKE 

Sift  together: 

2  cups  flour  1   egg  —  beaten 

1   tsp.  soda  Mix   together: 

Va  tsp.  salt  Va  cup  cocoa 

Cream  1/3  cup  water 

Va  cup  butter  1   cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1   tsp.  vanilla 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  egg.  Add  cocoa 
mixture  and  flavoring.  Lastly,  add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with 
sour  milk.  Bake  at  350  degrees  until  cake  tester  comes  out  clean. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Evans 

-24- 


RAINBOW  CAKE 

Measure  into  bowl:  3/4  cup  Crisco 

3  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  sugar  1   cup  milk 

Mix  thoroughly  by  hand  or  electric  mixer  for  two  minutes. 

Add 

5  tsp.  double-acting  baking  4  egg  whites 

powder  Vi  cup  milk 

Mix  two  minutes  and  divide  into  three  parts: 

WHITE  LAYER:  Add  Vi  tsp.  vanilla  to  prepared  batter. 

YELLOW  LAYER:  Add  3  or  4  drops  of  yellow  coloring  and  !/2  tsp. 
lemon  extract. 

DARK  LAYER:  Add  Vi  tsp.  cinnamon,  1/8  tsp.  cloves,  1/8  tsp.  soda, 
2  tbs.  cocoa  blended  with  2  tbs.  water. 

Bake  for  25  to  30  minutes  at  360  degrees.  Cool  cake  in  pan  for  15 
minutes  before  removing.  Loosen  edges  from  pan  with  spatula. 
Use  Creamy  Icing. 

Mrs.  James  S.  Thore 


COCOA  CARAMEL  CAKE 

1   tsp.  vanilla  3/4  tsp.  salt 

1   cup  brown  sugar  3/4  tsp.  soda 

1    well-beaten  egg  Va  cup  cocoa 

1  3/4  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1   cup  milk 
1/3  cup  shortening 

Thoroughly  cream  shortening  and  sugar.  Add  egg,  beat  well.  Add 
sifted  dry  ingredients  alternately  with  milk.  Pour  into  greased  8" 
square  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  40  minutes.  Frost  with  your  fav- 
orite chocolate  icing. 

Mrs.  Walter  Leary 


CHOCOLATE  ICE  BOX  CAKE 

114  cups  heavy  cream  Va  cup  sugar 

3/4  tsp.  vanilla  24  chocolate  ice-box  wafers 

Whip  cream  with  sugar  and  vanilla  until  stiff.  Spread  each  ice  box 
wafer  with  whipped  cream,  placing  one  wafer  on  edge  in  front  of 
the  other  forming  a  row.  Press  gently  together.  Spread  remaining 
cream  over  top  and  sides.  Chill  in  refrigerator  three  hours.  When 
ready  to  serve,  slice  diagonally. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Hawk 

-25- 


CHOCOLATE  MARBLE  CAKE 

3  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  tsp.  vanilia 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  6  egg  whites  —  stiffly  beaten 

V2  tsp.  salt  3  squares  unsweetened  choco- 
3/4  cup  butter  or  other  late  —  melted 

shortening  4  tbs.   sugar 

2  cups  sugar  V4  cup  boiling  water 

3/4  cup  milk  V2  tsp.  soda 

Sift  flour  once;  measure;  add  baking  powder  and  salt  and  sift  to- 
gether three  times.  Cream  butter  thoroughly;  add  sugar  gradually 
and  cream  together  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  flour,  alternately  with 
milk,  beating  after  each  addition  until  smooth.  Add  vanilla.  Fold  in 
egg  whites.  To  melted  chocolate,  add  sugar  and  boiling  water,  stir- 
ring until  blended.  Then  add  soda  and  stir  until  thickened.  Add  to 
one  half  of  batter.  Leave  other  half  of  batter  plain.  In  a  greased 
tube  pan,  put  alternate  spoonfulls  of  dark  and  light  mixture  until 
all  is  used.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  350  degrees  55  minutes,  or  until 
done.  Cover  with  chocolate  frosting. 

Miss  Doris  Vogler 


AMBASSADOR  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  3  eggs 

1    tsp.  soda  3  tbs.  cocoa 

1   cup  butter  or  lard  2/3   cup  cold   water 

1-1/3   cups   brown   sugar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  3  well  beaten  eggs.  Add  water.  Sift 
flour,  soda  and  cocoa  and  stir  into  mixture  a  little  at  a  time.  Beat 
good.  Makes  3  layers.  Bake  at  350  degrees.  Ice  with  7-minute  Frost- 
ing. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Craver 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  1 

PART  I:  1/3  cup  butter 

1  cup  sugar  3  eggs  (well  beaten) 

6  tbs.  cocoa  2  cups  flour 

V2  cup  sweet  milk  V2  tsp.  salt 

PART  II:  1    tsp.  vanilla 

1   cup  sugar  1  tsp.  soda  in  3  tbs.  warm  water 

V2  cup  buttermilk  or  sour  milk 

Cook  part  I  two  minutes  and  cool.  Cream  together  sugar,  butter, 
eggs,  and  buttermilk.  Add  flour,  salt,  and  vanilla.  Add  Part  II.  Dis- 
solve 1  tsp.  soda  in  warm  water  and  add.  Bake  20  minutes  in  400 
degree  oven. 

Mrs.  Sam   Reid 

-26- 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE  NO.  2 

(My  Own  Recipe) 

V2   lb.  butter  2  tsp.   soda 

114  cups  sugar  2!/2  cups  flour 

2  eggs  2  tsp.  vanilla 

1    cup  buttermilk  V/2  oz.  chocolate 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Dissolve  soda  in 
sour  milk  and  add  alternately  with  the  flour.  Add  melted  chocolate 
to  batter  last.  Bake  for  20  minutes  in  400  degree  oven.  Makes  3 
9"  layers. 

Mrs.  Fred  Reed 


RICH  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1  cup  butter  1   tsp.  soda 

2  cups  sugar  4  ozs.  chocolate 
5  eggs  2Va  cups  flour 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  tsp.  flavoring,  vanilla 

Cream  butter  thoroughly  and  add  egg  yolks,  one  at  a  time.  Then  add 
sugar  slowly.  Mix  soda  in  1  tbs.  hot  water  and  mix  with  sour  milk. 
Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water.  Combine  all,  add  flour  and  mix 
well.  Lastly,  add  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  of  two  eggs.  Bake  in 
layers  or  long  loaf  pans.  If  a  layer  cake,  cut  up  marshmallows  into 
small  pieces  and  put  between  the  layers  while  still  hot.  Cover  with 
white  frosting.  This  will  keep  for  a  week. 

Mrs.  Georgia  Stewart 


MALLO-NUT  FUDGE  CAKE 

3  oz.  chocolate  —  cut  very  fine         V2  cup  shortening  or  butter 

3/4  cup  boiling  water  1/3  cup  thick  sour  milk 

1-3/4  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 

lVa  cups  sugar  2  eggs  —  unbeaten 

3/4  tsp.  salt  18  marshmallows  —  cut  in  half 

V2  tsp.  baking  powder  V2  cup  nuts  —  cut 

3/4  tsp.  soda 

Put  chocolate  in  bowl.  Pour  boiling  water  over  it.  Stir  until  melted. 
Cool.  Sift  flour,  sugar,  salt,  baking  powder,  and  soda  into  chocolate 
mixture.  Drop  in  shortening.  Beat  200  strokes  or  2  minutes  with 
mixer.  Add  sour  milk,  vanilla  and  eggs.  Beat  200  strokes  or  2  min- 
utes. Bake  in  layers.  Oven  heat  350  degrees.  Bake  30  or  40  minutes. 
While  cake  is  still  warm,  press  marshmallows  on  one  layer  turned 
upside  down.  Spread  with  fudge  frosting,  adding  nuts. 

Mrs.  Carl   Ingram 

-27- 


PRUNE  CAKE  NO.  1 

4  tbs.  softened   butter  1   tsp.  cloves 

2  eggs  pinch  salt 

V/a  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

2  tsp.  soda  2  cups  crushed  prunes  (cook 
1V2  tsp.  cinnamon  prunes  and  cool) 

Put  together  in  order  given.  Bake  20  minutes  at  400  degrees. 

Mrs.   Howard   Reid 

PRUNE  CAKE  NO.  2 

1 V2  cups  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

Vi  cup  shortening  1   tsp.  soda 

3  large  eggs  2  cups  flour 

Vi  tsp.  salt  1   tsp.  baking  powder 

Vi  tsp.  nutmeg  Vi  tsp.  allspice 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  Vi  cup  of  nuts,  if  you  prefer 
Vi  tsp.  cloves  them 

Stew  prunes.  Cut  in  small  pieces.  Save  Vi  cup  of  flour  and  sprinkle 
over  batter.  Put  prunes  in.  Sprinkle  flour  on  top.  That  keeps  them 
from  going  to  bottom. 

Mrs.  Frank  Pfaff 

PRUNE  CAKE  NO.  3 

4  lbs.  butter  —  melted  1    tsp.  soda 

2  cups  white  sugar  1   tsp.  cloves 

4  eggs  —  separated  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  prune  juice 

pinch   of  salt  2  cups  crushed  prunes 

Beat  4  egg  yolks;  add  sugar,  then  butter.  Add  prune  juice,-  sift 
flour,  salt,  soda,  and  spices  together;  add  to  mixture.  Beat  until 
fluffy;  add  crushed  prunes;  then  add  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Beat 
well  again.  Fold  into  three  cake  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
35  to  40  minutes,  375  degrees.  Use  carmel  icing  between  layers, 
on  top,  and  sides  of  cake. 

Mrs.   S.   C.   Rothrock 

CREAM  CAKE 

4  eggs  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  cream  (not  too  heavy)  Flavor  to  suit  taste 
3Vi   cups   flour 

Beat  eggs  good;  add  sugar  and  cream;  mix  flour  and  baking  pow- 
der. Sift  three  times,-  add  to  cream  mixture.  Bake  in  mold  pan  one 
hour  at  350  degrees.  Baked  in  pans  makes  4  layers. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Mine 

-28- 


WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE 

1  cup  whipping  cream  IV2  cups  sifted  cake  flour 

2  eggs  2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1    tsp.  vanilla                                           V2  tsp.   salt 

1  cup  sugar 

Whip  cream  (about  40%)  until  stiff.  Drop  in  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a 
time,  and  sugar,  beating  after  each  addition.  Add  vanilla.  Put  dry 
ingredients  into  a  sifter  and  fold  in  lightly.  Biend  well.  Bake  in  a 
9"  square  pan  30  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Perry  Yokeley 


APPLE  CREAM  SHORTCAKE 

2  lbs.  butter  1  cup  sifted  flour 

1  qt.  thinly  sliced  apples  1   tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  cup  sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

1   tsp.  cinnamon  3/4  cup  heavy  cream 

Melt  butter  in  baking  pan  6x10.  Mix  the  sliced  apples  with  the 
sugar  and  cinnamon  and  spread  over  butter  in  pan.  Sift  flour,  baking 
powder  and  salt  together.  Add  cream  all  at  one  time  and  mix  until 
smooth.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  over  apples  and  bake  in  hot  oven  400 
degrees  for  30  minutes. 

Mrs.   Henry   Reed 


SOFT  GINGER  BREAD 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar  2  tsp.  soda  —  dissolve  in  V2  cup 
1   cup  molasses  of  boiling  water 

Vi  cup  lard  2V2  cups  flour 

1   tsp.  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  2  well-beaten  eggs 
ginger,  nutmeg 

Sift  flour  once;  measure  and  sift  again  with  salt  and  spices.  Cream 
shortening  and  sugar,  and  cream  together  until  light.  Add  sifted 
dry  ingredients  and  hot  water  with  soda  dissolved  in  it.  Add  well- 
beaten  eggs  the  iast  thing.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  to  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Sapp 


GINGER  BREAD 

Vi  cup  lard  2  cups  flour 

Vi  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  ginger 

1  cup  molasses  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

2  eggs  Vi  cup  milk 

Mix  well  and  bake  in  oven  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Brooklyn  Vogler 

-29- 


TROPICAL  GINGERBREAD 

I/2  cup  butter  IV2  cups  flour 

V2  cup  sugar  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

2  eggs  Va  tsp.  salt 

1   tsp.  soda  V2  cup  cold  water 

V2  cup  molasses  1    cup  fresh  grated  or  moist 

1    tsp.  ginger  packed  coconut 

Cream  well  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs;  beat  all  together.  Dissolve 
soda  in  molasses  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Mix  and  sift  remaining 
dry  ingredients  and  add  to  first  mixture  alternately  with  the  cold 
water.  Stir  in  the  coconut.  Pour  in  well  greased  pan  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  325  degrees  for  35  minutes. 

ICE  WITH  COCONUT  FROSTING:  Boil  1  cup  sugar  and  Va  cup  water 
without  stirring  until  syrup  forms  a  long  thread  when  dropped 
from  tip  of  spoon.  Beat  2  egg  whites  stiff;  then  slowly  pour  syrup 
over  egg  whites,  stirring  constantly.  Add  3/4  tsp.  lemon  extract. 
Beat  until  right  consistency  to  spread.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  coconut. 

Miss  Doris  Vogler 


HOT  MILK  CAKE 

4  eggs  1  cup  milk 

2  cups  sugar  Va  lb.  butter 

2  cups  flour  2  tsp.   vanilla  flavoring 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly;  add  sugar  and  continue  beating.  Add  flour 
and  baking  powder;  add  flavoring.  Heat  milk  and  butter  to  boiling 
point  and  add  to  batter.  Blend  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Ice  with 
seven-minute  frosting. 

Mrs.  John  Johnson 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE 

11/2  cups  egg  whites  1   level  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

IV2  cups  very  fine  cane  sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  cake  flour  1   tsp.  vanilla 

Separate  eggs  and  let  stand  20  minutes;  add  Va  tsp.  salt  and  whip 
until  frothy.  Do  not  beat  too  long  or  cake  will  be  dry.  Sift  sugar 
and  add  to  the  whites,  two  teaspoons  at  a  time.  Add  flavoring,  sift 
flour  several  times,  then  sift  gradually  into  egg  whites,  folding  in- 
stead of  beating.  Pour  into  ungreased  angel  food  pan.  Start  baking 
at  275  degrees  and  after  30  minutes  increase  to  325  degrees  for  30 
minutes  more. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Chappell 

-30- 


A  SMALL  SPONGE  CAKE 

1   even  cup  of  flour  2  eggs  beaten  separately 

1   tsp.  baking  powder  1   cup  of  sugar 

Mix  above  ingredients  thoroughly  and  pour  in  slowly  scant  Vi  cup 
of  boiling  water.  Add  flavoring  and  bake.  This  is  very  light  and 
inexpensive. 

Mrs.  John  McCuiston 


DUTCH  APPLE  CAKE 

1   cup  flour  3  tart  apples,  pared  and  sliced 

V%  tsp.  salt  1 1/2  tsp.  baking  powder 

%  cup  shortening  4  tbs.   sugar 

V*  cup  milk  Vz  tsp.  cinnamon 

1   egg  —  beaten  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 

4  tbs.  melted  butter 

Measure  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  1  tbs.  sugar.  Cut 
in  shortening  until  mixture  looks  like  coarse  corn  meal.  Combine  egg 
and  milk;  add  to  dry  ingredients  and  mix  to  soft  dough.  Spread 
dough  in  a  shallow  baking  dish.  Arrange  apple  slices  in  rows  over 
the  mixture,  with  pointed  edges  down.  Combine  remaining  sugar 
with  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Sprinkle  over  apples.  Pour  melted 
butter  over  top  and  bake  for  25  to  30  minutes  at  400  degrees. 

Mrs.  Carl  Ingram 


MOLASSES  CAKE 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

V2  cup  shortening  IV2  tsp.  cinnamon 

Vi  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

Vi  cup  molasses  V2  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  eggs  Few  grains  nutmeg 

2  cups  sifted  flour  V%  cup  milk 

2  tsp.   baking  powder  1    tbs.  grated  lemon  rind 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  gradually;  add  molasses;  beat  well. 
Beat  eggs;  add;  beat  until  light  and  fluffy.  Sift  flour  with  baking 
powder,  cinnamon,  salt,  baking  soda,  and  nutmeg  add  alternately 
with  milk.  Add  lemon  rind.  Pour  into  2  greased  8x8x2  pans.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  350  degrees  for  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Lagette  Woosley 

-31- 


MARBLE  SPICE  CAKE 

3  cups  flour,  sifted  3  eggs,  well  beaten 

4  tsp.  baking  powder  1  cup  light  cream 
Vi  tsp.  salt                                               IV2  tsp.  cinnamon 

3/4  cup  shortening  3/4  tsp.  cloves,  nutmeg,  allspice 

V/i  cup  sugar  3  tbs.  molasses 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  together.  Cream  shortening  and 
sugar.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients  with 
cream.  Divide  batter  in  half.  Mix  molasses  and  spices  and  add  to 
half  the  batter.  Turn  into  pans  alternating  spoonfuls  of  white  and 
spice  batter.  Bake  in  oven  375  degrees  about  25  minutes.  Ice  with 
Hungarian  Chocolate  Icing. 

Mrs.  John  Johnson 


PINEAPPLE  UPSIDE  DOWN  CAKE 

2  tbs.  butter  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

3/4  cup  brown   sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

IV2  cups  white  sugar  3  eggs 

V2  cup  boiling  water  Slices   of   pineapple 

IV2  cups  flour 

Melt  2  tbs.  butter  in  skillet.  Add  3/4  cup  brown  sugar.  Arrange 
slices  of  pineapple  on  top  of  this  mixture.  Beat  3  egg  yolks  until 
light.  Add  Vi  cup  boiling  water  and  continue  beating.  Fold  in  1  cup 
sugar,  sifted  with  1-1/3  cups  flour,  1  tsp.  baking  powder  and  14 
tsp.  salt.  Beat  well  and  fold  in  3  egg  whites  beaten  stiffly.  Pour  over 
pineapple  and  bake  for  45  minutes  in  325  to  350  degree  oven. 

Mrs.  Laura  Lucille  Berrier 


SPICE  CAKE 

2  cups  brown  sugar  V2  tsp.  cloves 

V2  cup  butter  or  shortening  1  cup  sour  milk 

2  egg  yolks  1  tsp.  soda 

2-3/4  cups  flour  1   tsp.  vanilla 

1   tsp.  cinnamon  1   tsp.  salt 

Cream  butter,  sugar,  and  egg  yolks.  Dissolve  soda  in  sour  milk  and 
add  alternately  with  all  dry  ingredients.  Add  vanilla;  mix  until 
smooth.  Bake  in  375  degree  oven. 

ICING:  Beat  egg  whites  stiff.  Slowly  add  1  cup  brown  sugar,  beat- 
ing until  smooth.  Add  V2  cup  nut  meats,  if  desired.  Spread  on  cake 
and  bake  in  350  degree  oven  until  done,  about  40  or  50  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  N.  Rothrock 

-32- 


PLAIN  BUTTER  CAKE 

1/3    cup    butter  2    cups   flour 

1  cup    sugar  3    tsp.    baking    powder 

2  eggs  Vz   tsp.   salt 

"1    cup    milk  1    tsp.    vanilla 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  gradually;  blend  thoroughly.  Beat 
eggs  well;  add  to  first  mixture.  Mix  sifted  flour,  salt,  and  baking 
powder.  Combine  alternately  with  milk.  Lastly,  add  vanilla.  Bake 
in  375  degree  oven  until  done. 

Mrs.   M.    N.    Rothrock 


FOUNDATION  CAKE 

V2  cup  butter  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  V2  cups  sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

3  eggs  1  cup  milk 

3  cups  sifted  soft-wheat  flour  V2  tsp.  flavoring 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together;  add  the  beaten  egg  yolks  and 
beat  well.  Sift  together  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  alternately 
with  the  milk  to  the  first  mixture.  Fold  in  the  egg  whites  and  the 
flavoring.  Bake  in  greased  layer  cake  pans  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
375  degrees,  about  15  minutes.  Put  the  layers  of  the  cake  together 
with  chocolate  or  other  frosting. 

Mrs.  Luther  Hine 


EASTER  GLORY  CAKE 

214  cups  sifted  Cake  Flour  V2  cup  shortening  or  butter 

3  level  tsp.  baking  powder  1  cup  sweet  milk 

1   level  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla 

IV2  cups  sugar  2  eggs  —  unbeaten 

Sift  flour  once;  measure  into  sifter;  add  baking  powder,  salt  and 
sugar.  Set  aside.  Place  shortening  in  mixing  bowl  and  stir  just  to 
soften.  Sift  in  dry  ingredients.  Add  3/4  cup  milk  and  vanilla  and 
mix  until  all  flour  is  dampened.  Then  beat  two  minutes.  Add  eggs 
unbeaten  and  remaining  1/4  cup  milk,  beat  1  minute  longer.  Turn 
cake  into  three  cake  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  375  degrees  30 
minutes.  Spread  with  seven-minute  frosting  between  layers  and  on 
top,  and  sides  of  cake.  Sprinkle  heavy  with  shredded  coconut.  Dec- 
orate with  groups  of  mixed  colored  jelly  beans  as  nests  of  Easter 
eggs.  This  recipe  makes  delicious  fresh  coconut  and  banana  cakes. 

Mrs.  M.  N.  Rothrock 

-33- 


FEATHER  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar 

1   small  cup  butter 
1   cup  sweet  milk 

3  eggs 


3  cups  flour 

3  tsp.  baking  powder 

1   tsp.  lemon  juice  or  extract 


Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  milk;  mix 
flour  and  baking  powder;  sift  three  times.  Add  flour  to  cream 
mixture.  Add  flavoring. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Hine 


SOUR  CREAM  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  sour  cream 

3  cups  sifted  flour 
3  eggs 


3  tsp.  baking  powder 
Va  tsp.  soda 
1   tsp.  vanilla 
Va  tsp.  salt 


Beat  eggs;  add  sugar  gradually.  Beat  well,  stir  in  vanilia.  Add 
cream  alternately  with  sifted  flour  with  dry  ingredients.  Bake  at 
375  degrees  for  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Curtis  Motsinger 


SCRIPTURE  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 
3  cups  flour 
3  cups  sugar 

2  cups  raisins 
2  cups  figs 

1   cup  almonds 

Vi  cup  water 

6  eggs 

1  tbs.  honey 

1  tsp.  soda 

V2  tsp.  salt 

Add  spices  as  desired 


Judges  5:25 
I  Kings  4:22 
Jeremiah  6:20 

I  Samuel  30:12 

II  Samuel  30:12 
Genesis  43:1 1 
Isaiah  10:14 
Isaiah  10:14 
Genesis  43:1 1 
Leviticus  23:17 
Leviticus  2:12 
Genesis  43:1 1 

Mrs.  Henry  Reed 


SNOW  FLAKE  CAKE 
(Mold) 


2  cups  sugar 
1  cup  butter 

1  cup  sour  milk 

3  cups  flour  —  sifted 


5  egg  whites 

Va  tsp.  soda 

1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Flavor  to  suit  taste 


Cream  sugar  and  butter  thoroughly;  add  milk  with  the  flour  grad- 
ually. Dissolve  the  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  with  the  milk.  Add  the 
whites  which  have  been  beaten  thoroughly;  fold  in.  Add  flavoring. 

Mrs.  Emma  Stewart 


-34- 


HIGH-HAT  CAKE  (Chiffon  Type) 

Cake  flour  —  2!4  cups  Cream  of  tartar  —  Vi  tsp. 

Sugar  —  IV2  cups  Salad  Oil  —  Vi  cup 

Baking  Powder  —  3  tsp.  Egg  yolks  —  unbeaten  —  5 

Salt  —  1  tsp.  Cold  water  —  3/4  cup 

Egg  White  -  1  cup  (7  or  8)  Vanilla  -  2  tsp. 

Sift  flour;  measure;  add  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt;  sift  again 
into  large  bowl  of  electric  mixer.  In  small  mixer  bowl,  beat  egg 
whites  and  cream  of  tartar  at  medium  speed  until  whites  form  very 
stiff  peaks;  transfer  to  a  large  mixing  bowl  and  set  aside.  Add  salad 
oil,  egg  yolks,  water  and  vanilla  to  dry  ingredients;  beat  until  smooth 
at  medium  speed.  Gradually  pour  egg-yolk  mixture  into  beaten 
whites,  folding  together  gently  until  just  blended.  Do  not  stir.  Pour 
into  ungreased  10"  tube  pan,  4"  deep.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  325 
degrees  for  65  to  70  minutes.  Let  cake  cool  upside  down,  placing 
center  tube  over  neck  of  funnel  or  bottle,  if  need  be,  to  keep  cake 
from  touching  table.  When  cold  loosen  cake  from  pan  with  spatula. 
Hit  pan  edge  sharply  and  remove  from  pan. 

Mrs.  Jack  Crews 

CHERRY  CAKE 

2'/2  cups  sifted  cake  flour  1   tsp.  vanilla 

IV2  cups  sugar  2  tsp.  almond  extract 

3V2  tsp.  baking  powder  4  egg  whites 

1  tsp.  salt  18  maraschino  cherries  —  well 
Vi  cup  shortening  drained  and  very  finely 
3/4  cup  milk                                                 chopped 

!/4  cup  cherry  juice  Vi  cup  walnuts,  finely  chopped 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  and  salt  into  mixing  bowl.  Drop  in 
shortening.  Combine  milk  with  cherry  juice.  Add  3/4  cup  of  this 
liquid.  Add  flavoring  extracts.  Beat  200  strokes  or  2  minutes  with 
mixer.  Scrape  bowl  with  spoon  or  beater.  Add  remaining  liquid  and 
egg  whites  and  beat  200  strokes.  Add  cherries  and  nuts  and  blend. 
Bake  in  2  deep  9"  greased  pans  in  moderate  oven  375  degrees  for 
20-25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Cliften  Sapp 

LOAF  CAKE) 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

Vi  lb.  butter  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 
2V2  cups  flour  1    tsp.  vanilla 
V2  tsp.  salt  5  or  6  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  and  add,  alt- 
ernately with  milk.  Add  vanilla.  Beat  in  eggs  last,  one  at  a  time.  Bake 
in  oven  350  degrees  about  one  hour  or  until  loose  at  sides. 

Mrs.  Jack  McCuiston 

-35- 


CHERRY-BLUSH  NUT  CAKE 

1V2  cup  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2  lbs.  chopped  walnuts  1   tsp.  vanilla 

3  cups  sifted  cake  flour  4  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  — 
3  tsp.  double  acting  baking  not  dry 

powder  Va  cup  chopped  maraschino 

3/4  tsp.  salt  cherries 

2/3  cup  shortening 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  gradually;  beat  until  light.  Add  dry 
ingredients  alternately  with  combined  milk  and  vanilla.  Beat  well 
after  each  addition.  Carefully  fold  in  egg  whites.  To  2/3  of  batter, 
add  maraschino  cherries  and  enough  vegetable  coloring  to  tint  batter 
pink.  Turn  into  two  greased  lined  8"  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
350  degrees  about  30  minutes.  When  cake  it  cold,  frost  thickly  with 
seven-minute  frosting.  Use  red  vegetable  coloring  in  1/3  of  frost- 
ing for  sides.  Use  plain  frosting  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Kimball 


TOMATO  SOUP  CAKE 

V2  cup  melted  butter  1  cup  raisins 

1    cup  sugar  1  cup  walnuts  (broken) 

1  egg  1  tsp.  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water 

2  cups  flour  1  can  tomato  soup 

Add  sugar  to  melted  butter;  add  egg,-  mix  well.  Add  flour  and  soup 
alternately.  Beat  well;  add  soda  and  raisins  and  nuts  dusted  with 
some  of  the  flour.  Bake  at  350  degrees. 

ICING:  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

1   cake  cream  cheese  vanilla 

Use  cream  if  needed  for  spreading  consistency. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Evans 


FIVE  EGG  CAKE 

V2  lb.  butter  3  cups  all-purpose  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 

5  eggs  3  tsp.  baking  powder 
1   tsp.  vanilla 

Warm  butter  to  room  temperature.  Beat  at  low  speed,  if  using  food 
mixer.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly;  add  eggs  and  vanilla 
and  beat  until  fluffy;  add  flour  and  milk  alternately;  add  baking 
powder  and  beat  slightly.  Bake  in  4  greased,  floured  8"  layer  pans 
in  400  degree  oven  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Colon  Hine 

-36- 


JAM  CAKE 

Vz  cup  shortening  2-2/3  cups  flour 

1-1/3  cups  brown  sugar  1   tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

2/3  cup  strawberry  or  black-  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

berry  jam  1   tsp.  nutmeg 

2/3  cup  chopped  nuts  2/3  cup  milk 
2/3  cup  seedless  raisins 

Blend  shortening,  sugar  and  eggs  in  one  stirring.  Add  jam,  nuts 
and  raisins.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Add  alternately  with  milk. 
Pour  into  well-greased  tube  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  350  degree 
oven  about  one  hour.  Cover  with  the  following  icing: 

2  egg  whites  VA  cups  granulated  sugar 

1/8  tsp.  salt  Vz  cup  red  current  jelly 

2  tbs.  cold  water 

Mix  jelly,  sugar,  water.  Cook  slowly  until  syrup  forms  a  soft  ball 
in  cold  water  (238  degrees).  Pour  slowly  over  stiffly  beaten  salted 
egg  white,  beating  until  consistency  to  spread. 

Mrs.  Laura  Lucille  Berrier 


ONE  EGG  CAKE  NO.  1 

1  egg  2/3  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1V2  cups  flour 

2  tbs.  butter  1    heaping  tsp.  baking  powder 
2  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  egg,  then  milk;  mix  flour  and  baking 
powder;  add  to  mixture.  Bake  in  biscuit  pan,  turn  out  when  done 
and  sift  pulverized  sugar  over  it.  Cut  in  squares.  Bake  in  350  de- 
gree oven. 

Mrs.  E.  R.  Hine 


ONE  EGG  CAKE  NO.  2 

1-1/3  cup  flour  1/3  cup  shortening,  melted  and 
pinch  of  salt  finish  filling  cup  with  sweet 

2V2  tsp.  baking  powder  milk  or  evaporated  milk 

1  cup  sugar  (sifted  in  flour)  1   egg 

Stir  into  dry  ingredients,-  add  1  egg  and  beat  well.  Add  1  tsp.  vanil- 
la and  bake  30  minutes  at  350  degrees.  Can  be  baked  in  two  layers 
or  in  loaf.  A  delicious  cake  for  a  small  family.  Ice  in  various  ways; 
very  good  with  fresh  coconut.  If  baked  in  bread  pan,  put  on  top, 
3  tbs.  butter,  4  or  more  tbs.  brown  sugar,  little  milk  from  top  of 
bottle.  Put  in  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.   Alice   Parnell's   Cook   Book 

-37- 


LARGE  MOLD  CAKE 

3/4  lb.  butter  4V2  cups  flour 

3  cups  sugar  3  level  tsp.  baking  powder 

6  eggs  flavor  with  lemon 

1  V2  cups  sweet  milk 

Combine  the  above  ingredients  and  beat  well.  The  more  mixture  is 
beaten,  the  better  it  is.  Bake  at  325  to  350  degrees  for  IViz  hours. 

Lemon  Filling 

3  cups  4x  sugar  Juice  of  one  large  lemon 

Medium  lump  of  butter  Combine    above    ingredients 

Mrs.  Erastus  Martin 


WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

1/3  cup  butter  or  margarine  1   tsp.  vanilla 

1/3  cup  shortening  1  tsp.  almond  extract 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  milk 

3  cups  cake  flour  1    cup  sugar 

Va  tsp.  salt  6  stiffly-beaten  egg  whites 

3  tsp.  baking  powder 

Thoroughly  cream  butter,  shortening,  and  1  cup  sugar.  Sift  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder  together;  add  alternately  with  milk.  Add 
flavorings.  Gradually  add  remaining  1  cup  sugar  to  stiffly  beaten 
egg  whites,-  beat  well.  Fold  into  batter.  Bake  in  3  greased  8"  layer 
cake  pans  in  moderate  oven  350  degrees  for  20  minutes.  Cool. 

Miss  Dartha  Ingram 


LEMON  LAYER  CAKE 

2V4  cups  cake  flour  1  cup  milk 

3%  tsp.  baking  powder  1   tsp.  vanilla 

1   tsp.  salt  V2  tsp.  lemon  extract 

IVi  cups  sugar  2  eggs 

V'2  cup  shortening 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together  into  mixing  bowl.  Add  shortening  and 
2/3  cup  milk  and  flavorings.  Beat  vigorously  two  minutes.  Add 
remaining  1/3  cup  milk  and  unbeaten  eggs.  Beat  two  minutes.  Bake 
in  two  greased  8"  layer  cake  pans  in  moderate  oven  350  degrees 
for  30  minutes.  Use  lemon  Tilling. 

Miss  Dartha   Ingram 

-38- 


POUND  CAKE 


1    cup  butter  (V2  lb.)  Vanilla  flavoring 

1-2/3   cups   sugar  2  cups  flour 

5  eggs 

This  cake  must  be  made  by  hand.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and 
cream.  Break  eggs  in  singly.  Beat  each  one  until  no  yellow  shows. 
Add  flavoring  and  lastly  add  flour,  about  Va  at  a  time.  Must  be  put 
in  the  tube  pan  by  hand.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  about  50  minutes 
or  until  golden  brown. 


Variation  for  above  cake: 
1   grated  coconut 


V2  cup  nut  meats  (floured) 
May  be  added  after  the  flour. 

Miss  Jonnie  Ellen  Hine 


FAMILY  POUND  CAKE 


1  cup  butter 
1-2/  cups  sugar 

2  cups  sifted  flour 


V2  tsp.  salt 

5  eggs 

Juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon 


Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy  as  whipped  cream. 
Add  V2  of  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating 
after  each  addition.  Add  rest  of  dry  ingredients,  lemon  juice  and 
rind.  Beat  well.  Bake  in  ungreased  tube  pan  at  350  degrees  for  55 
minutes.  Store  with  an  apple. 

Mrs.  Walter  Leary 


WALNUT  CAKE 


3  cups  sifted  flour 
1-3/4  cups  granulated  sugar 
2  tsp.  baking  powder 
1    cup  emulsified-type  (quick 
method)  shortening 


IV2  tsp.  salt 

3/4  cup  milk 

2  tsp.   vanilla   flavoring 

4  eggs  —  unbeaten 

1   cup  very  finely  chopped   nuts 


Have  milk,  eggs,  shortening  at  room  temperature.  Heat  oven  to 
375  degrees.  Grease  and  flour  9"  tube  pan.  Sift  flour  and  next  three 
ingredients  into  large  bowl.  Drop  in  shortening;  pour  in  milk,  va- 
nilla flavoring,  2  of  the  eggs.  Beat  well;  then  add  remaining  two 
eggs;  beat  well.  Fold  in  nuts.  Turn  into  tube  pan.  Bake  at  375  de- 
grees for  one  hour  or  until  done.  Coo!  in  pan  on  wire  rac  klO  to 
15  minutes. 

Miss  Gladys   Ingram 

-39- 


WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE 
(Loaf  Cake) 

3  cups  sugar  (white)  Whites  of  5  eggs 

V2  cup  butter  1  T.  cream  of  tartar 

3  cups  flour  1   T.  vanilla 

1  cup  milk  Vi  T.  soda 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light;  add  cream  and  soda  to  flour  and 
sift.  Add  flour  and  milk  alternately.  Add  stiffly  beaten  eggs  last. 
Bake  one  hour  at  300  degrees. 

Miss  Louise  Ebert 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 

2  cups  flour  2/3  cup  milk 

Vi  cup  butter  2  level  tsp.  baking  powder 

V/i  cups  sugar  Va  tsp.  almond  extract 

whites  of  5  eggs 

Sift  flour  once  and  measure.  Add  baking  powder  and  sift  three 
times.  Sift  sugar;  measure,  cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  until  very  stiff  and  add  to  creamed  butter  and  sugar. 
Add  flour  and  milk  alternately.  Add  flavoring  and  stir  very  hard. 
Bake  in  mold  40  to  60  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Laura  McCuiston 

APPLESAUCE  CAKE  NO.  1 

2  cup  sugar  2  tsp.  soda 

2  cups  nuts  (Walnuts,  Pecans,  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

English  Walnuts)  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  cups  raisins  2  tbs.  cocoa 

3!A  cups  flour  1  tsp.  allspice 

114  cups  butter  2  eggs 
2  cups  applesauce 

Take  apples  while  hot  and  add  butter;  then  add  sugar.  Beat  eggs 
until  creamy.  Add  flour,  nuts  and  raisins.  Bake  at  375  degrees. 

Miss  Delia  Yokley 

APPLESAUCE  CAKE  NO.  2 

4  eggs  AVi  cups  flour 
2  cups  sugar  2  boxes  raisins 

1  cup  butter  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  cups  applesauce  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tsp.  soda  V2  lb.  fruit  cake  mix 

Sift  dry  ingredients.  Cream  butter,  and  sugar.  Beat  in  eggs.  Add 
applesauce,  nuts,  raisins,  and  dry  ingredients.  Bake  slowly  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  3  hours. 

Mrs.  Grady  Dixon 

-40- 


VELVET  LAYER  CAKE 

V2  cup  butter  Va  tsp.  salt 

IV2  cups  sugar  4  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  cups  flour  V2  cup  water 

4  eggs  1    tsp.  lemon  extract 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  creaming  constantly.  Add  egg 
yolks  and  cream  again.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Add  alter- 
nately the  dry  ingredients  and  water  to  the  first  mixture;  beat  tho- 
roughly. Add  lemon  extract  and  last  fold  in  beaten  egg  whites. 
Turn  mixture  into  two  oiled  layer  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
350  degrees  about  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Thomason 


APPLESAUCE  CAKE  NO.  3 

V2  lb.  butter  or  good  shortening  1    tsp.  allspice 

2  cups  sugar  1    tsp.  cloves 

2  eggs  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  tsp.  cinnamon  2  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  raisins  2  cups  applesauce 

1  cup  nuts  4  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar;  add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Warm  applesauce 
with   1   tsp.  soda.  Mix  sifted  dry  ingredients,-  add  nuts  and  raisins 
with  the  last  cup  of  applesauce  and   1   tsp.  soda.  Bake  in  tube  or 
loaf  pan.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Reed,  Jr. 


APPLESAUCE  CAKE  NO.  4 

2  cups  sugar  (white)  V2  cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  raisin  (box)  3  tsp.  soda 

3  cups  applesauce  (quart)  2  tsp.  cinnamon 
1   cup  butter  (about  V2  lb.)  2  tsp.  cloves 

4  tbs.   cocoa  5  cups  flour 

FILLING:  Juice  and  rind  of  two  lemons,  1  coconut,  2  cups  sugar, 
IV2  cups  boiling  water,  1  tbs.  flour.  Cook  until  drops  in  lumps  from 
spoon. 

ICING:  4  cups  brown  sugar,  stick  butter,  1  cup  condensed  milk. 
Cook  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water.  Take  off  stove  and 
add  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Beat  until  thick  enough  for  cake. 

Mrs.  Archie  Hine 

-41- 


QUICK  BUTTERSCOTCH  FROSTING 

1  cup  brown  sugar  —  firmly  Va  tsp.  salt 

packed  Va  cup  milk 

3   tbs.   shortening  IV2  cups  sifted  confectioner's 

2  tbs.  butter  sugar 

Combine  brown  sugar,  shortening,  butter,  and  salt  in  sauce  pan  and 
bring  to  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Add  milk  and  boil  slowly  three 
minutes.  Cool.  Add  confectioner's  sugar  and  beat  until  thick  enough 
to  spread. 

Mrs.  Grady  Dixon 


CARAMEL  ICING 

Cream   well:  Boil  two  minutes  —  remove  from 

2  cups  brown  sugar  stove  and  beat  well 

!/a  cup  butter  Add: 

Add:  Vt.  tbs.  baking  powder 

5  tbs.  top  milk  1   tsp.  vanilla 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Reed 


SEVEN-MINUTE  FROSTING  NO.  1 

2  egg  whites  !/e  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

5  tbs.  cold  water 

Put  sugar,  egg  whites,  salt,  vanilla  and  water  in  saucepan  and  heat. 
Do  not  boil.  Take  off  and  beat  with  electric  beater  7  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Craver 


SEVEN-MINUTE  FROSTING  NO.  2 

7/8  cup  sugar  Va  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

1  egg  white  1   tsp.  vanilla 

3  tbs.  water 

Put  all  ingredients  in  top  of  double  boiler  and  beat  with  egg  beat- 
er for  seven  minutes.  Ready  then  to  go  on  cake. 

Mrs.  Fred  Brincefield 


CREAMY  ICING 

Combine  in  bowl:  Va  tsp.  salt 

4  egg  yolks  IV2  tsp.  vanilla 

3  cups  sifted  Confectioner's  1  /3  cup  cream 

sugar  I/2  cup  butter 

Beat  until  creamy.  Covers  top  and  sides  of  3  layers. 

Mrs.  James  S.  Thore 

-42- 


FOOL  PROOF  FUDGE  ICING 

Place  in  sauce  pan  2  oz.  chocolate  finely  cut;  IV2  cups  sugar;  7  tbs. 
milk;  4  tbs.  butter;  1  tbs.  corn  syrup;  14  tsp.  salt.  Bring  slowly  to 
full  rolling  boil,  stirring  constantly  and  boil  briskly  one  minute.  On 
rainy  days,  one  and  one-half  minutes.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  1  tsp. 
vanilla  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

Mrs.   R.  A.   Reed 


LEMON  FILLING 

3/4  cup  sugar  1   tbs.  butter 

2  tbs.  corn  starch  1/3  cup  lemon  juice 

Ve  tsp.  salt  V2  cup  water 

1  tbs.  grated  lemon  rind  1  egg,  beaten 

Mix  sugar,  cornstarch,  and  salt  very  thoroughly.  Add  remaining  in- 
gredients and  blend.  Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly 
until  thickened.  Cool.  Filling  for  two  layers. 

ORANGE  FILLING:  Reduce  sugar  to  V2  cup.  Use  orange  rind  and 
orange  juice  instead  of  lemon  and  add  1   tsp.  lemon  juice. 

Miss  Dartha  Ingram 


HUNGARIAN  CHOCOLATE  ICING 

1  tbs.  butter  Va  tsp.  allspice,  cloves  and 

1   cup  Confectioner's  sugar  nutmeg 

1   egg  V2  tsp.  cinnamon 

!4  cup  milk  3  squares  unsweetened  chocolate 

Va  tsp.  vanilla  —  melted 

Cream   butter;  blend   in   sugar  gradually.   Add   eggs,   milk,   vanilla, 
spices,  and  chocolate.  Beat  until  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Mrs.  John  Johnson 


FLUFFY  FROSTING 

1  cup  sugar  V*  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

2  egg  whites,  unbeaten  dash  of  salt 

4  tbs.  cold  water  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  sugar,  egg  whites,  water,  cream  of  tartar  and  salt  in  upper 
part  of  double  boiler.  Place  over  boiling  water  and  beat  constantly 
with  rotary  type  beater  until  frosting  will  stand  in  peaks  or  about 
7  minutes.  Add  vanilla.  Makes  about  three  cups.  1  cup  brown  sugar 
can  be  used  in  place  of  white  sugar. 

Mrs.  Zeb  V.  Ashe 

-43- 


CREAM  CHEESE  EC1NG 

Cream  two  3-oz.  packages  cream  cheese  with  IV2  tbs.  milk  until 
fluffy.  Sift  3/4  cup  Confectioner's  sugar;  add  and  beat  well.  Add  1 
tsp.  grated  lemon  rind;  mix  well.  Spread  on  warm  cake. 

Mrs.  Lagette  Woosley 


ANGEL  WHITE  FROSTING 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1    tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  water  2  egg  whites  (beaten) 

2  tbs.  light  corn  syrup 

Mix  sugar,  corn  syrup,  and  water  in  sauce  pan;  boil  until  mixture 
spins  thread;  slowly  pour  over  beaten  egg  whites;  beat  at  high 
speed  for  8  minutes;  decrease  speed  to  medium  and  continue  beating 
until  lukewarm.  1  tsp.  of  water  may  be  added  if  frosting  becomes 
too  thick. 

Mrs.  Colon  E.  Hine 


44 


COOKIES 


TEA  TIME  COOKIES 

1  3/4  cups  flour  V2  cup  sugar 

V4  teaspoon  salt  1  egg  yolk 

3/4  cup  butter  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Sift  together  flour  and  salt  and  set  aside.  Blend  together  butter  and 
sugar.  Beat  in  egg  yolk.  Add  vanilla  and  flour  mixture.  Put  through 
cookie  press  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  375  degrees  F 
about  10  minutes.  Yield  50  cookies. 

Miss  Julia  Thomason 


REFRIGERATOR  COOKIES 

1   cup  soft  butter  1  tsp.  flavoring  (vanilla,  almond, 

1  cup  sifted  confectioner's  sugar      or  wintergreen) 

Mix  above  ingredients  together  thoroughly  then  sift  together  and 
stir  in 

2V2  cups  sifted  flour  Va  tsp.  salt 

Mix  thoroughly  with  hands.  Press  and  mold  into  a  long  roll  about 
2"  in  diameter.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper,  and  chill  until  stiff  (several 
hours  or  overnight).  With  thin,  sharp  knife,  cut  in  thin  slices  1/8" 
to  1/16"  thick.  Place  slices  a  little  apart  on  ungreased  baking  sheet. 
Bake  until  lightly  browned.  Bake  in  moderate  hot  oven  (400  degrees) 
for  about  8  to  10  minutes.  Makes  about  6  dozen  2"  cookies.  Dough 
may  be  colored  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Richard  H.  Reed 


ICE  BOX  COOKIES 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  V2  teaspoon  salt 

V2  lb.  butter  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

4  eggs,  well  beaten  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  baking  powder  5'/2  cups  flour 

1  tablespoon  soda 

Cream  shortening  and  sugar;  add  eggs  and  mix  well.  Add  flavoring. 
Sift  flour,  measure  and  sift  with  salt,  baking  powder,  and  soda. 
Add  to  first  mixture.  Add  nuts,-  mix  thoroughly  and  form  into  rolls 

2  inches  in  diameter.  Wrap  in  wax  paper.  Chill  overnight.  Slice  thin 
and  place  on  slightly  oiled  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  hot  oven  425  de- 
grees about  12  minutes.  Make  100  cookies. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Hastings 

-45- 


SAND  DABS 

3/4  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  water 

4  tbs.  confectioner's  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  rest  of  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Pinch 
off  bits  of  the  dough  and  roll  about  the  size  of  a  finger.  Bake  40  to 
45  minutes  in  oven  pre-heated  to  325  degrees  F.  Remove  from  oven 
and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Miss  Ethel  Thomason 


SNICKERDOODLES 

Mix     1     cup    shortening    (butter  Va  teaspoon  salt 

preferably)  with   l!/2  cups  white  shape    into    balls    about   size   of 

sugar  and   2   eggs.  Add  to  this  small  walnuts  and  roll  in  mixture 

2  3/4  cups  sifted  flour  of  2  tbs.  white  sugar  2  tbs. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Place  2  inches  apart  on  ungreased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

Mrs.  Henry  Reed 


ICE  CREAM  WAFERS 

V2  cup  butter  3/4  cup  flour 

1  egg  V2  teaspoon  flavoring 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  English  walnuts 


Vi  cup  sugar 


Blend  sugar  and  shortening,  add  egg  that  has  been  well  beaten. 
Add  flour,  which  has  been  sifted  with  salt  and  add  flavoring  and 
mix.  Drop  on  greased  baking  sheet  like  small  marbles,  well  apart. 
Put  nut  meat  in  center  and  bake  in  oven  of  400  degrees  for  10  to  15 
minutes. 

Miss  Connie  Stewart 

CHRISTMAS  SPRITZ  COOKIES 

1  cup  shortening  Vi  teaspoon  baking  powder 

3/4  cup  sugar  Dash  of  salt 

1  egg  1    tsp.    almond   extract  or   other 

IVa  cups  sifted  flour  flavoring 

Cream  shortening  and  add  sugar  gradually.  Add  egg  unbeaten,  mix. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  gradually  to  shortening  mixture.  Add 
flavoring  and  mix.  Fill  cookie  press  and  form  cookies  on  ungreased 
cookie  sheet.  Bake  in  oven  of  400  degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes. 

Miss  Connie  Stewart 

-46- 


COCONUT  TAFFY  BARS 

1  cup  shortening  (half  butter)  1   tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  brown  sugar  4  cups  sifted  flour 

2  eggs  1  Vi  tsp.  baking  powder 

1    tsp.  soda  dissolved  in  Va  cup      14  tsp.  salt 

hot  water  1   cup  shredded  coconut 

Mix  together  thoroughly  shortening,  sugar  and  eggs.  Stir  in  soda 
and  water  and  vanilla.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients  and  stir  in.  Mix 
in  coconut.  Chill  dough.  Drop  by  tablespoons  on  cookie  sheet.  Flatten 
with  fork  into  bars  1  1/2"  x  2  1/2".  Bake  in  oven  of  400  degrees 
for  8  to  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ricks  Sink 


TEA  CAKES 

1   lb.  brown  sugar  1    tsp.  soda  dissolved  in  a   little 

5  eggs  sour  milk 

Vi  lb.  butter  flour 

beat  the  eggs  separately  From  Mrs.  Laura  Reed's  Cook 

Book 


PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

V2  cup  vegetable  shortening  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Vi  cup  peanut  butter  1  egg 

V2  cup  sugar  114  cups  sifted  flour 

IV2    cup     brown     sugar,    firmly  V2  tsp.  salt. 

packed  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  shortening  and  peanut  butter;  add  sugars.  Add  flavoring  and 
egg  and  beat  until  light.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Shape 
into  3/4  inch  balls  and  place  on  greased  cookie  sheets.  Press  flat 
with  tines  of  fork.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  of  375  degrees  for  10  to 
12  minutes. 


GINGER  SNAPS 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  cup  shortening  1  tablespoon  soda 

1   cup  molasses  1  tablespoon  ginger 

Stiffen  with  flour,  roll  into  small  balls  with  the  hands  and  bake.  They 
will  flatten  with  a  crackled  top. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Ingram 

-47- 


OLD  FASHIONED  TEA  CAKES 


4  eggs 

3  cups  brown  sugar  (firmly 

packed) 

Vi  lb.  butter  (melted) 

1  cup  buttermilk 

1   teaspoon  nutmeg 


V2  teaspoon  salt 

1  tsp.  (heaping)  baking  powder 

2  tsps.  (heaping)  soda 

8  cups  flour  or  enough  to  make 
a  very  soft  dough 


Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  nutmeg  and  cream  together.  Add  butter  and 
mix  into  first  mixture;  add  buttermilk  and  mix.  Mix  soda,  baking 
powder  with  2  cups  of  flour  and  stir  in  mixture.  Add  the  rest  of  flour 
or  enough  to  make  a  very  soft  dough.  Roll  at  least  one-fourth  inch 
thick.  Cut  with  a  large  cutter  and  bake  in  a  medium  oven  of  about 
350  degrees  or  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Emma  Stewart 


OATMEAL  JIM-JAMS 


1  teaspoon  soda 
Vi  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  grown  oatmeal 


1   cup  butter  or  shortening 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

2  cups  flour 
V2  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar.  Sift  the  flour,  salt  and  soda  and 
add  with  the  oatmeal  to  the  first  mixture,  alternately  with  the  milk. 
If  ground  oatmeal  is  not  available,  rolled  oats  may  be  ground  in 
a  food  chopper  and  measured  after  grinding.  Toss  on  a  floured 
board  and  roll  thin.  Cut  in  rounds.  Put  on  greased  baking  sheet  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  of  350  degrees  12  to  15  minutes.  When 
cold,  put  together  like  sandwiches  with  the  following  filling. 

3/4  lb.  chopped  dates  or  seeded      3/4  cup  sugar 
raisins  V2  cup  boiling  water 

Cook  ingredients  together  until  thick.  Cool  before  spreading. 

Miss  Doris  Vogler 


BROWNIES 


2  squares  chocolate 
1/3  cup  shortening 

1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 


3/4  cup  flour 

V2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  broken  nuts 


Melt  together  over  hot  water,  chocolate  and  shortening.  Beat  in  the 
sugar  and  eggs.  Add  to  this  mixture  the  dry  ingredients  that  have 
been  sifted  together.  Mix  in  nuts.  Spread  in  greased  8  inch  square 
pan.  Bake  until  top  has  dull  crust  or  until  slight  imprint  is  left  when 
top  is  touched  lightly  with  finger.  Cool  slightly  and  cut  nto  squares. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Reed 

-48- 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 


1  egg 

1    tablespoon  water 

I/2  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  V2  cups  oatmeal,  uncooked 

VA  cups  chocolate  chips 


3/4  cup  flour 

V2  teaspoon  soda 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  fat 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar 

V2  cup  granulated  sugar 

Sift  flour,  measure,  add  soda  and  salt  and  sift  together.  Cream  fat; 
gradually  add  sugars  and  cream  well.  Beat  in  egg  until  fluffy;  add 
water  and  vanilla.  Add  sifted  dry  ingredients,  rolled  oats  and  choco- 
late chips.  Drop  from  a  teaspoon  onto  a  greased  baking  sheet  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  of  375  degrees  for  about  12  minutes. 

Mrs.  Glenn  Thomason 


PECAN  COOKIES 
(Ice  Box) 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  granulated  sugar 
IV2  cups  shortening 
3  beaten  eggs 
1  teaspoon  salt 


2  teaspoons  soda 

4  cups  flour  (3  usually  plenty) 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  pecan  nuts 


Cream  shortening  with  sugar.  Mix  in  beaten  egg.  Sift  flour,  salt,  and 
soda  and  add  vanilla  and  nuts.  Divide  into  three  sections  and  roll 
each  section  with  hands;  place  in  refrigerator  to  chill.  Remove  from 
refrigerator  and  slice.  Place  on  greased  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Samuel  J.  Tesch 


CHOCOLATE  NUT  DROPS 


1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Va  teaspoon  soda 

V2  cup  milk 

Va  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  nuts,  chopped 


V2  cup  shortening 
1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  egg 

2  squares  chocolate,  melted 
V2  teaspoon  vanilla 
1  3/4  cups  flour 

Cream  shortening  and  brown  sugar.  Add  egg  and  beat  well.  Add 
chocolate  and  vanilla.  Sift  together  flour  and  dry  ingredients.  Add 
to  first  mixture,  alternately  with  milk.  Mix  well  and  add  nuts.  Drop 
by  teaspoons  on  greased  baking  sheet.  Bake  in  oven  of  400  degrees 
for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Ricks  Sink 


-49- 


CORN  FLAKE  MACAROONS 

2  egg  whites  1  cup  moist  shredded  cocoanut 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  2  cups  corn  flakes 
V2  teaspoon  vanilla  V2  cup  chopped  nuts 

Beat  the  egg  whites  until  stiff  with  a  hand  or  electric  beater  at  high 
speed.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  while  continuing  to  beat.  Fold  in 
the  remaining  ingredients  with  a  spoon.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto 
greased  or  oiled  cookie  sheets.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  of 
400  degrees  until  delicately  browned.  Makes  about  36  macaroons. 

Mrs.  Jack  Crews 

NUT  BUTTER  BALLS 

2  cups  sifted  flour  1  cup  butter 

V4  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

V2  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  finely  chopped  nuts 

Sift  flour,  sugar  and  salt  together.  Work  in  butter  and  vanilla,  add 
nuts  and  mix  well.  Shape  into  one-half  inch  balls  and  place  on 
greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  in  oven  of  325  degrees  for  about  40 
minutes.  Roll  in  powdered  sugar  while  warm. 

Miss  Connie  Stewart 

BOSTON  COOKIES 

1V2  cups  brown  sugar  1   lb.  seedless  raisins 

3/4  cup  butter  1 V2  teaspoons  soda 

3  eggs,  well-beaten  V2  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Vb  teaspoon  salt  Va  teaspoon  cloves 
2V2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour 

Work  together  butter  and  sugar  until  creamy.  Add  beaten  eggs  and 
beat  well.  Sift  the  flour  and  salt  together  and  add  to  first  mixture. 
Add  nutmeg  and  cloves.  Add  soda  that  has  been  dissolved  in  IV2 
tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Fold  in  raisins  and  mix  together  thoroughly. 
Drop  by  rounded  teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  or  oiled  cookie  sheets. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  10  to  12  minutes  or  until  browned  and 
firm. 

Mrs.  Dallas  F.  Chappell 

NUT  COOKIES 

1  egg  white  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sifted  brown  sugar  2  cups  chopped  nuts 

Beat  egg  white  and  add  brown  sugar  and  vanilla.  Mix  and  add  nuts. 
Drop  by  small  spoonfuls  on  waxed  paper  lined  baking  sheets  and 
cook  in  oven  of  300  degrees  for  20  to  25  minutes. 

Miss  Connie  Stewart 

-50- 


CRISP  TEA  CAKES 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  2  teaspoons  water 

2  cups  brown  sugar  Vanilla  to  suit  taste 

1  cup  butter,  melted  7  cups  of  flour,  or  enough  to 

1  teaspoon   soda   dissolved   in  make  a  stiff  dough 

Cream  eggs  and  sugar.  Add  butter  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  flavor- 
ing and  soda.  Mix.  Then  add  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff 
dough.  Roll  about  one-eighth  inch  thick  and  cut  and  bake  in  hot 
oven  of  425  degrees. 

Mrs.  Grover  Hedgecock 

SUGAR  COOKIES 

6  to  8  cups  flour  1  cup  sour  cream 

3  cups  sugar,  1   white    and  2  1  cup  butter  or  shortening 
brown  1  teaspoon  soda  (heaping) 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  stir  in  cream  and  add  butter  or  shortening. 
Beat  well.  Sift  baking  powder  and  soda  with  2  cups  of  flour.  Add 
flour  until  mixture  is  no  longer  sticky  and  is  the  consistency  to  roll. 

Mrs.  Curtis  Motsinger 

MORAVIAN  CHRISTMAS  CAKES 

1  qt.  Porto  Rico  molasses  buttermilk 

1  lb.  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  cloves 

4  lbs.  flour  2  tablespoons  ginger 

6  ozs.  pure  lard  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

6  ozs.  butter  2  tablespoons  mace  and  more 

1  oz.  soda  dissolved  in  spices  if  desired 

4  tablespoons  boiling  water  or 

Blend  sugar  and  fat.  Add  molasses  and  soda.  Sift  flour  and  spices 
together  and  add  to  molasses  mixture.  Makes  a  stiff  dough.  Roll 
paper  thin  and  bake  in  slow  oven  of  275  to  300  degrees  or  until 
golden  brown. 

Mrs   C.  F.  Sapp 

WHITE  CHRISTMAS  COOKIES 

Vi  cup  butter  3/4  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar,  brown  or  white  Flavoring  of  your  choice 

2  eggs  Flour  sufficient  to  make  a  soft 
IV2  tablespoons  sour  milk  dough 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  eggs  and  beat  well.  Dissolve  soda 
in  cream  and  add  to  butter  mixture  and  add  flavoring.  Mix.  Add 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  chill  dough  thoroughly  in 
refrigerator  and  then  roll  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Luther  Hine 

-51- 


TOLL  HOUSE  COOKIES  AND  VARIATIONS 


Vi  teaspoon  salt 
Drop  or  so  of  hot  water 
!/2  cup  chopped  nuts 
Package    of    Semi-Sweet    Choco- 
late Chips 


V2  cup  butter  or  shortening 

6  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

6  tablespoons  white  sugar 

1  egg,  well  beaten 

V2  teaspoon  soda 

1    1/8  cups  sifted  flour 

Blend  butter  with  sugars.  Add  one  egg  beaten  whole.  Add  dry  in- 
gredients which  have  been  sifted  together.  Add  a  few  drops  of  hot 
water.  Mix  together  until  well  blended.  Lastly  add  chopped  nuts 
and  contents  of  package  of  Chocolate  chips.  Flavor  with  V2  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  drop  by  half  teaspoons  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake 
in  oven  of  375  degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Yield:  50  cookies. 

TOLL  HOUSE  SQUARES 

Prepare  Toll  House  cookies  according  to  above  recipe.  Pour  batter 
into  a  greased  waxed  paper  lined  square  pan  (8"  x  8"  x  2").  Bake 
at  350  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes.  When  cool,  cut  into  squares 
<2"  x  2").  Yield:  16  squares. 

TOLL  HOUSE  OATMEAL  COOKIES 

Reduce  flour  in  Toll  House  Cookie  recipe  to  3/4  cup.  Add  1  cup  rolled 
cats  (uncooked)  with  chocolate  chips.  Bake  as  for  Toll  House  Cookies. 

TOLL  HOUSE  MAPLE  SYRUP  COOKIES 

In  place  of  water  in  Toll  House  Cookie  recipe,  add  3  tablespoons 
Maple  syrup.  Bake  as  for  Toll  House  Cookies. 

Mrs.  L.  Doyle  Chappell 


52 


Fruits  and  Vegetables 

SPICED  PEACHES 

1  No.  21/2  can  cling  peach  halves      2  3-inch  sticks  of  cinnamon 
3/4  cup  brown   sugar,  packed         1  tsp.  whole  cloves 
V2  cup  vinegar  1  tsp.  whole  allspice 

Drain  peaches.  Add  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  to  syrup  and  boil  5 
minutes.  Add  peaches,  simmer  5  minutes.  Allow  fruit  to  stand  in 
pickling  syrup  overnight.  Serve  chilled. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Sapp 


RED  APPLES 

1  dozen  apples  V2  lb.  cinnamon  drops 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  water 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  together  sugar,  water,  and  cinnamon  drops. 
Peel  and  core  apples;  drop  in  syrup,  turning  regularly  so  that  cinna- 
mon coloring  will  be  even.  Let  cool.  Serve  as  salad  or  dessert  with 
whipped  cream  or  as  sweetmeat. 

Mrs.  William  Hine 


POTATO  O'BRIEN 

8  raw  potatoes  1  green  pepper 

1   small  can  pimiento  2  cups  milk 

1  onion  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

parsley 

Chop  together  the  potatoes,  onion,  peppers,  pimiento,  and  parsley. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  this 
mixture.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  2Vi  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Hiatt 


BAKED  BEANS 

1  lb.  dried  baby  lima  beans  2  pork  chops 

}A  lb.  bacon  (cut  in  pieces)  2  tbs.  syrup  (well  rounded) 

1  tbs.  brown  sugar  (well  1  can  tomatoes 

rounded)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Soak  beans  overnight.  Pour  off  water  and  add  fresh  water  to  cover. 
Then  add  all  ingredients  and  bake  in  oven  (350  degrees)  or  cook 
slowly  in  deep  well  cooker.  Stir  often. 

Mrs.  O.  E.  Stimpson 

-53- 


BAKED  CORN  PUDDING 


2  slices  bacon 

Vi  green  pepper,  chopped 

Vi  onion,  chopped 

2  tbs.  flour 

1  tsp.  salt 

14  tsp.  paprika 


14  tsp.  mustard 

1  cup  milk 

2  cups  whole-kernel  corn 

(canned,  fresh  or  frozen) 
1  beaten  egg 
buttered  bread  crumbs 


Fry  bacon  until  crisp  in  a  skillet.  Remove.  Pour  off  in  excess  of  2 
tbs.  Cook  pepper  and  onion  in  fat  until  very  lightly  browned.  Add 
flour,  mixed  with  seasonings  and  blend.  Add  the  milk  gradually, 
stirring  constantly  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  corn,  egg,  and 
bacon  which  has  been  chopped.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and 
cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees) 
20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Odell  Martin 


STUFFED  SQUASH 

Parboil  until  tender  3  medium  size  squashes.  Scoop  out  center  in 
bowl;  chop  fine.  Add  to  chopped  squash,  V2  cup  bread  crumbs,  1 
slightly  beaten  egg,  a  little  salt  and  butter;  mix  lightly.  Fill  hollowed 
out  centers  of  squash  with  stuffing  and  garnish  with  grated  cheese. 
Place  in  baking  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  20 
minutes  or  until  stuffing  is  browned. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Hastings 


SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 


salt  and  pepper 
3  tbs.  fat 


2  cups  stewed,  sliced,  fresh  or 

canned  tomatoes 
2  cups  dry  bread,  cubed 

Arrange  tomatoes  and  bread  in  alternate  layers  in  a  greased  baking 
dish;  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper.  Top  layer  should  be 
of  bread.  Pour  melted  fat  over  top  (bacon  fat  is  good).  Bake  uncov- 
ered in  moderate  oven  (370  degrees)  for  about  20  minutes.  Serves 
4  to  6. 

Mrs.  Paul  Mosteller 


CORN  FRITTERS 


3  eggs  (separated) 

1   2/3  cup  cooked  corn 

Vz  tsp.  salt 


1/8  tsp.  pepper 
14  cup  sifted  flour 
6  tbs.  fat  or  salad  oil 


Beat  egg  yolks  until  light,  then  add  the  corn,  seasonings  and  flour. 
Lastly  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  hot 
fat  in  a  skillet.  Cook  on  both  sides  until  brown  and  done.  ' 

Mrs.  James  S.  Thore 


-54- 


Fruits  and  Vegetables 

SPICED  PEACHES 

1  No.  2V2  can  ciing  peach  halves      2  3-inch  sticks  of  cinnamon 
3/4  cup  brown  sugar,  packed         1  tsp.  whole  cloves 
V2  cup  vinegar  1  tsp.  whole  allspice 

Drain  peaches.  Add  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  to  syrup  and  boil  5 
minutes.  Add  peaches,  simmer  5  minutes.  Allow  fruit  to  stand  in 
pickling  syrup  overnight.  Serve  chilled. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Sapp 


RED  APPLES 

1  dozen  apples  V2  lb.  cinnamon  drops 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  water 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  together  sugar,  water,  and  cinnamon  drops. 
Pee!  and  core  apples;  drop  in  syrup,  turning  regularly  so  that  cinna- 
mon coloring  will  be  even.  Let  cool.  Serve  as  salad  or  dessert  with 
whipped  cream  or  as  sweetmeat. 

Mrs.  William  Hine 


POTATO  O'BRIEN 

8  raw  potatoes  1  green  pepper 

1  small  can  pimiento  2  cups  milk 

1  onion  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

parsley 

Chop  together  the  potatoes,  onion,  peppers,  pimiento,  and  parsley. 
Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Butter  a  baking  dish  and  put  in  this 
mixture.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  2V2  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Hiatt 


BAKED  BEANS 

1  lb.  dried  baby  lima  beans  2  pork  chops 

Va  lb.  bacon  (cut  in  pieces)  2  tbs.  syrup  (well  rounded) 

1  tbs.  brown  sugar  (well  1  can  tomatoes 

rounded)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Soak  beans  overnight.  Pour  off  water  and  add  fresh  water  to  cover. 
Then  add  all  ingredients  and  bake  in  oven  (350  degrees)  or  cook 
slowly  in  deep  well  cooker.  Stir  often. 

Mrs.  O.  E.  Stimpson 

-53- 


BAKED  CORN  PUDDING 


2  slices  bacon 

V2  green  pepper,  chopped 

V2  onion,  chopped 

2  tbs.  flour 

1  tsp.  salt 

Va  tsp.  paprika 


Va  tsp.  mustard 

1  cup  milk 

2  cups  whole-kernel  corn 

(canned,  fresh  or  frozen) 
1  beaten  egg 
buttered  bread  crumbs 


Fry  bacon  until  crisp  in  a  skillet.  Remove.  Pour  off  in  excess  of  2 
tbs.  Cook  pepper  and  onion  in  fat  until  very  lightly  browned.  Add 
flour,  mixed  with  seasonings  and  blend.  Add  the  milk  gradually, 
stirring  constantly  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  corn,  egg,  and 
bacon  which  has  been  chopped.  Pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish  and 
cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  (400  degrees) 
20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Odell  Martin 


STUFFED  SQUASH 

Parboil  until  tender  3  medium  size  squashes.  Scoop  out  center  in 
bowl;  chop  fine.  Add  to  chopped  squash,  V2  cup  bread  crumbs,  1 
slightly  beaten  egg,  a  little  salt  and  butter;  mix  lightly.  Fill  hollowed 
out  centers  of  squash  with  stuffing  and  garnish  with  grated  cheese. 
Place  in  baking  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  (350  degrees)  20 
minutes  or  until  stuffing  is  browned. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Hastings 


SCALLOPED  TOMATOES 


salt  and  pepper 
3  tbs.  fat 


2  cups  stewed,  sliced,  fresh  or 

canned  tomatoes 
2  cups  dry  bread,  cubed 

Arrange  tomatoes  and  bread  in  alternate  layers  in  a  greased  baking 
dish;  sprinkle  each  layer  with  salt  and  pepper.  Top  layer  should  be 
of  bread.  Pour  melted  fat  over  top  (bacon  fat  is  good).  Bake  uncov- 
ered in  moderate  oven  (370  degrees)  for  about  20  minutes.  Serves 
4  to  6. 

Mrs.  Paul  Mosteller 


CORN  FRITTERS 


3  eggs  (separated) 

1   2/3  cup  cooked  corn 

Vi  tsp.  salt 


1/8  tsp.  pepper 
Va  cup  sifted  flour 
6  tbs.  fat  or  salad  oil 


Beat  egg  yolks  until  light,  then  add  the  corn,  seasonings  and  flour„ 
Lastly  fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  onto  hot 
fat  in  a  skillet.  Cook  on  both  sides  until  brown  and  done. 

Mrs.  James  S.  Thore 


-54- 


HONEYED  SWEET  POTATOES 


2  tbs.  lemon  juice 

V2  tsp.  lemon  rind 

1  tbs.  maraschino  cherries 


IV2  lbs.  sweet  potatoes 

1   tsp.  salt 

3  tbs.  margarine 

Vi  cup  honey 

Wash,  peel  and  cut  potatoes  into  crosswise  slices  V2  inch  thick, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  butter.  Cover  and 
cook  8  to  10  minutes  or  until  tender.  Combine  remaining  ingredients 
and  pour  over  potatoes,  cover  and  simmer  5  minutes  or  longer. 
Garnish  with  cherries.  Serves  4. 

Mrs.  Ivey  Hine 

CHEESED  NEW  POTATOES 


V/2  cup  grated  American  cheddar 

cheese 
I4cup    light  cream  or  top  milk 


2  lbs.  medium  new  white 

potatoes 
3/4  tsp.  salt 
Va  tsp.  black  pepper 

Cook  whole  potatoes  until  tender.  Peel  and  place  in  a  shallow  bak- 
ing dish.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  then  the  grated  cheese. 
Pour  the  cream  over  all.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (325  degrees)  for 
25-30  minutes  or  until  thoroughly  hot  and  lightly  browned. 

Mrs.  James  Thore 


CAULIFLOWER  SPECIAL 

1  medium  size  head  cauliflower.  Break  into  pieces  and  cook  in  salt 
water  until  tender.  Pour  following  sauce  over  cooked  cauliflower 
and  serve. 


V/2  tsp.  butter 

2  tsp.  flour 

V*  tsp.  salt  and  dash  of  pepper 


1  cup  milk 

2  tbs.  tomato  catsup 
1  tsp  horshraddish 


Melt  butter  and  blend  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  milk  and  cook 
until  it  thickens.  Add  catsup  and  horseraddish  and  stir  until  blended. 

Mrs.  David  H.  Conrad 


CREOLE  CABBAGE 

1  small  onion,  minced  2  tbs.  fat 

1  small  pepper,  cut  in  strips  1    lb.  shredded  cabbage 

1  cup  canned  tomatoes  or  juice         1  tsp.  salt,  dash  of  pepper 

Cook  the  onion  and  green  pepper  in  a  saucepan  with  fat  until  onions 
are  yellow.  Add  cabbage,  salt,  pepper  and  tomatoes.  Simmer  until 
the  cabbage  is  just  tender.  About  15  minutes.  Season  if  necessary. 
Serves  3  to  4. 

Mrs.  Paul  Mosteller 

-55- 


COOKED  SLAW 
(Grannie  Martin's  favorite  recipe) 

2  lb.  cabbage  3  tbs.  sugar 

1   handfull  salt  1  cup  hot  water 

V2  cup  lard  1/3  cup  vinegar 

3  level  tbs.  flour 

Shread  and  bruise  cabbage  with  the  salt.  Squeeze  out  the  juice.  Melt 
the  lard  in  cooker  over  fire.  Add  flour  to  lard  and  let  all  dissolve 
and  cook  up.  Leave  over  fire  and  add  water,  stir;  add  cabbage.  Mix 
good.  Add  sugar  and  vinegar.  Let  cook  for  5  minutes.  Add  onion,  if 
desired. 

Mrs.  Erastus  Martin 


HOT  CABBAGE  SLAW 

4  to  5  cups  cabbage,  coursely  2  tbs.  flour  ] 

chopped  1  tsp.  sugar 

about  IV2  cups  boiling  water  3  tbs.  meat  drippings,  butter  or 
1/3  cup  vinegar  margarine 

Cook  cabbage  in  boiling  salted  water  for  five  to  eight  minutes. 
Make  a  smooth  paste  from  the  vinegar  and  flour  and  add  some  of 
the  liquid  from  the  cabbage.  Pour  back  over  cabbage  with  sugar 
and  meat  drippings.  Heat  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Paul  Kimball 


1  1 


56- 


Meats  and  Meat  Substitutes 


BAKED  HAM  (Tenderized) 

Allow  about  V2  lb.  ham  per  person.  The  shank  end  of  ham  is  best  buy. 
Remove  skin  of  ham,  score  the  fat  surface  in  squares  or  diamonds. 
Stick  whole  cloves  in  each  square  or  diamond. 

Combine  V2  cup  brown  sugar  and  enough  Seven-Up  to  make  a  thick 
paste.  Spread  this  mixture  over  scored  side  of  ham.  Place  ham  in 
large  pan.  Pour  remaining  Seven-Up  in  bottom  of  pan  but  not  on 
ham.  Cover  with  a  lid  or  aluminum  foil.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
325  degrees  allowing  15  minutes  per  lb.  If  ham  is  very  cold  allow 
5  minutes  more  per  lb.  in  baking.  Baste  ham  two  or  three  times  while 
baking.  About  Vi  hour  before  baking  is  finished,  remove  cover  and 
let  ham  brown.  Remove  from  oven.  Let  ham  get  completely  cold  be- 
fore slicing. 

Mrs.  Raleigh  Ingram 


ONE  MEAT  DISH 

4  pes.  steak  4  medium  size  onions 

4  medium  size  potatoes  4  medium  size  carrots 

Brown  steak  in  half  fat  and  half  butter.  Season  well.  Add  uncooked 
potatoes,  onions,  and  carrots.  Cover  with  water,  dot  well  with  butter, 
and  add  more  seasoning.  Cook  until  vegetables  are  done.  Should 
be  cooked  in  large  cast-iron  pan  with  lid. 

Mrs.  Eugene  A.  Reed 


MEAT  LOAF  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

IV2  lbs.  ground  beef  Va  tsp.  pepper 

1  cup  fresh  bread  crumbs  V2  can  tomato  sauce 

1  medium-sized  onion,  chopped  1  egg  beaten 
1 V2  tsp.  salt. 

Mix  ingredients  lightly  and  form  a  loaf.  Place  in  a  shallow  pan  in 
moderate  oven  (350  degrees).  While  it  is  starting  to  bake,  combine 
the  following  to  make  a  tart  sweet  sauce. 

V2  can  tomato  sauce  2  tbs.  brown  sugar  or  molasses 

2  tbs.  vinegar  2  tbs.  prepared  mustard 
1  cup  water 

Pour  over  meat  loaf  in  oven;  continue  baking  IV2  hours,  basting  oc- 
casionally. Serves  6. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Hauk 

-57- 


BARBECUE  SAUCE 


4  tbs.  chopped  onion 
3/4  cup  water 
3  tbs.  vinegar 
1  tbs..  salt 


1  tsp.  paprika 

1   tsp.  chili  powder 

1  can  condensed  tomato  soup 

2  tbs.  Worcestershire  sauce 


Combine  all  the  ingredients.   Heat  and  use  as  a  sauce  for  basting 
meats  while  cooking  or  serve  on  cooked  meats.  For  a  very  hot  sauce, 
add  Vi  teaspoon  pepper,  Va  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  pinch  of  cloves. 
10  servings. 

Mrs.  Paul  Mosteller 


MEAT  LOAF  NO.  1 


1  cup  bread  crumbs 

2  slices  bacon,  chopped  finely  or 
2  tsp.  butter 


3  cups  ground  meat 

1  or  2  eggs 

1   tsp.  chopped  parsley 

1  slice  onion  finely  minced 

Mix  thoroughly;  press  into  a  greased  bread  pan.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  350  degrees  for  30  to  40  minutes.  Serve  meat  loaf  with  1  cup 
white  sauce  containing  chopped  parsley  or  chopped  hard  boiled 
egg.  Serve  meat  loaf  with  or  without  tomato  sauce. 

Miss  Carolyn  Sue  Hiatt 


MEAT  LOAF  NO.  2 


2V2  lbs.  ground  beef 
Vi  lb.  smoked  ham,  ground 
Vi  cup  chopped  onions 
2  tbs.  prepared  mustard 
1  cup  cracker  crumbs 


1  tbs.  salt 

Vi  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 
114  cups  milk 


Place  all  ingredients  in  mixing  bowl,  blend  thoroughly.  Shape  into 
loaf.  Bake  over  low  heat  1  hour  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  Paul  Kimball 


MEAT  LOAF  NO.  3 


2  cups  bread  crumbs 

V2  cup  milk 

1/3  cup  tomato  catsup 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 


2  lb.  beef,  ground 

1   lb.  fresh  pork,  ground 

1  teaspoon  salt 
dash  of  pepper 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Combine  beef  and  pork.  Add  salt,  pepper,  eggs.  Moisten  bread 
crumbs  in  milk  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  catsup  and  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Shape  in  loaf.  Place  in  moderate  oven  and  bake  IV2  hours. 

Mrs.  Luther  Festerman 


-58- 


SAVORY  MEAT  LOAF 

2  thin  2"  slices  salt  pork,  diced  2  lbs.  round  beef,  ground 

V2  cup  tapioca  V2  small  onion,  finely  chopped 

2  cups  canned  tomatoes  2V2  teaspoons  salt 

Fry  out  salt  pork  until  golden  brown.  Add  pork  and  drippings  to 
other  ingredients  and  mix.  Bake  in  loaf  pan  in  hot  oven  (450  de- 
grees) for  15  minutes;  decrease  heat  to  350  degrees.  Bake  30  min- 
utes longer,  or  until  done.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
Serves  10. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Vogler 


SALMON  LOAF  NO.  1 

2  cups  flaked  salmon  2  tsp.  grated  onion 

3  tbs.  salmon  liquid  1/3  cup  condensed  milk 
1 V2  cups  bread  crumbs                        V2  tsp.  salt 

1  unbeaten  egg  1/8  tsp.  pepper. 

Grease  one  quart  loaf  pan.  Dust  with  flour.  Mix  the  ingredients  in 
order  given.  Mix  well  and  pack  into  loaf  pan.  Bake  in  moderately 
slow  oven,  350  degrees,  35  minutes  or  until  firm.  When  done, 
loosen  from  sides  of  pan  with  knife  and  let  set  in  pan  5  minutes. 

Mrs.  Odell  Martin 

SALMON  LOAF  NO.  2 

1   lb.  can  salmon  2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

3/4  cup  milk  1  tsp.  salt 

1 V2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  dash  pepper 

4  tsp.  India  Relish  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Open  salmon  and  lift  bones  from  the  mixture.  Flake.  Add  milk  to 
slightly  beaten  eggs  and  mix  well.  Add  to  remaining  ingredients. 
Pack  into  a  greased  small  loaf  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  375 
degrees,  for  25  to  30  minutes,  or  until  firm  and  browned. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Jones 

TUNA  CURRY 

1  can  Tuna  Fish  1  green  pepper  (cut  in  small 

1  large  can  tomatoes  pieces) 

1  cup  cooked  rice  Va  tsp.  pepper 

1  onion  (diced)  1  tsp.  curry  powder 

1  tsp.  salt 

Brown  onion  and  green  pepper  in  one  tbs.  shortening.  Add  toma- 
toes, tuna  fish  and  rice.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  curry  powder. 
Cook  over  low  heat  until  kind  of  thick,  about  Vz  hour.  Stir  occasional- 

ly. 

Mrs.  David  H.  Conrad 
-59- 


SPANISH  HAMBURGER 
(Recipe  fills  100  big  buns.) 

8  lbs.  hamburger  (lean)  2  small  onions  (chopped  fine) 

I  qt.  tomato  juice  1  tbs.  celery  salt 

I I  qt.  sweet  milk  1  tbs.  black  pepper 
6  eggs  (beaten  in  sweet  milk)            3  tbs.  salt  or  more 
216  cups  cracker  crumbs 

Put  meat  in  pan  2"  deep.  Meat  should  be  about  Vz"  thick  in  pan. 
Bake  two  hours  or  a  little  longer.  If  it  gets  too  dry,  add  a  little  milk. 

Mrs.  Frank  Pfaff 

ONE-DISH  MEAL 

1  lb.  ground  steak  (any  kind  1  teaspoon  salt 

of  ground  meat)  dash  of  pepper,  black 

1  cup  sliced  onions  1  green  pepper,  sliced  (optional) 

1  can  Pork  and  Beans  2  tablespoons  bacon  grease 
1  can  tomato  soup 

Brown  meat  in  bacon  grease.  Put  one  layer  of  meat  in  greased  cas- 
serole; one  can  of  Pork  and  Beans,-  a  layer  of  onions,  layer  of  green 
pepper;  and  layer  of  meat.  Last  add  can  of  tomato  soup.  Bake  in  350 
degree  oven  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  David  H.  Conrad 


GOULASH 

IV2  lb.  ground  round  steak  V2  pod  green  pepper 

1  small  can  tomatoes  1  large  onion 

1  small  pkg.  macaroni 

Brown  pepper  and  onion  in   half  fat  and   half  butter.  Add   steak, 
season  and  brown.  Add  tomatoes  and  cooked  macaroni.  Cook  com- 
bination about  five  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Eugene  A.  Reed 


HAMBURGER 

1   lb.  Hamburger  1  onion 

4  slices  bread  1  raw  Irish  potato 

1  egg  Salt  and  pepper 

Mix  hamburger  with  egg.  Toast  bread;  then  break  up  in  small  pieces 
in  bowl.  Pour  enough  milk  over  bread  to  soak  up  good.  Then  add 
onion  and  grated  raw  Irish  potato,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well.  Then 
make  out  patties  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  Paul  Kimball 

-60- 


BARBECUED  SPARERIBS 

2  to  3  lbs.  ribs,  pork  Va  tsp.  poultry  seasoning 

IV2  tsp  .salt  1   small  onion 

Va  tsp.  pepper  1   8-oz.  can  tomato  sauce 

Va  tsp.  paprika  1    cup  water 

Va  tsp.  chili  powder  1  tsp.  sugar 

Trim  excess  fat  from  ribs;  place  in  large  shallow  baking  dish  so  that 
ribs  are  in  a  single  layer  if  possible,  for  easier  handling;  mix  and 
measure  seasonings  and  spices  together.  Sprinkle  generously  over 
both  sides  of  ribs;  slice  onion  on  top  and  pour  tomato  sauce  over 
all  and  water  and  sprinkle  sugar  over  sauce.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  (350  degrees)  for  about  3  hours  until  very  tender.  Baste  often 
and  turn  ribs,  if  necessary.  Add  more  water  if  needed  but  sauce 
should  be   thick  enough  to  cling  to  meat  when  done.  4  to  6  servings. 

Mrs.  Ivey  Hine 


HAMBURGER  SAUCE 

1  lb.  hamburger  meat  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  bottle  tomato  catsup  Water  to  cover 

% 'stick  butter 

Put  hamburger  meat  in  cold  water  and   stir  well.   Boil   slowly  for 
about  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Russell  Hine 


CHILI  CON  CARNE 

3/4  lb.  Hamburger  1   small  onion 

1  can  kidney  beans  V2  bottle  catsup 

Fry  diced  onion  brown,  add  hamburger,  cook  until  brown.  Then  add 
kidney  beans  and  catsup  and  cook  slowly  for  at  least  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  O.  E.  Simpson 


CHILI 

T  lb.  ground  meat  3  tbs.  Worchester  Sauce 

1  qt.  tomato  juice  Juice  of  1   lemon 

1   tsp  .salt  3  or  4  slices  of  rind  for  flavor 

1  bottle  catsup  3  little  red  pepper,  if  desired 

2  tbs.  Chili  powder 

Brown  meat  in  pan.  Add  to  tomato   juice  and   let  cook   until   wel 
done.  Add  other  ingredients  and  let  simmer  for  15  to  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Grady  Dixon 

-61- 


PORK-HAM  LUNCHEON  MEAT  WITH  RAISIN  SAUCE 

1  12-oz.  can  pork-ham  luncheon       1  tbs.  butter 

meat,  sliced  Va  cup  orange  juice 

2  tbs.  cornstarch  Juice  and  grated  peel  of  Vi 
Va  cup  brown  sugar  lemon 

1   cup  water  Dash  of  salt    ' 

Vi  cup  seedless  raisins 

Raisin  sauce:  Blend  cornstarch  and  brown  sugar;  gradually  add  wat- 
er. Cook  over  low  heat  until  smooth  and  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  raisins;  cook  slowly  15  minutes.  Add  butter,  orange  juice,  lemon 
juice  and  peel,  and  salt;  serve  over  luncheon  meat  which  has  been 
browned  in  broiler  or  skillet. 

Mrs.  Jack  Crews 


SPANISH  RICE  SAUCE 

1  lb.  ground  beef  flour  for  meat 

2  or  3  onions  Salt 

1  small  can  tomatoes  2  tbs.  fat 

1  pod  sweet  pepper  1  cup  water 

Add  lard  to  frying  pan.  Sprinkle  flour  and  salt  over  meat.  Add  meat 
and  chopped  onions  to  hot  grease  and  brown.  Add  1  cup  water.  Add 
tomato  and  sweet  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  slowly. 

RICE 

Vh  cups  rice  2  tsp.  salt 

2  qts.  water 

Boil  water,  add  salt.  Sprinkle  rice  which  has  been  washed  in  cold 
water,  into  boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  20  minutes.  Drain  off  water. 
Rinse  starch  off  rice  with  water.  Drain. 

Mrs.  Archie  Hine 


CHICKEN  PIE  NO.  1 

(My  Own  Recipe) 

3  cups  flour  3/4  tsp.  soda 

1  scant  cup  Crisco  or  lard  Vi  cup  buttermilk  (or  little  more) 

1  tsp.  salt  Makes  crust  for  1   large  pie 

Filling: 

2  cups  chicken  taken  off  bone  dash  of  black  pepper 
1-3/4  cups  broth  a  little  butter 

1  tbs.  flour 

Bake  about  50  minutes  in  350  degree  oven.  Makes  one  large  pie  in 
10"  dish,  21/4"  deep. 

Mrs.  Fred  Reed 

-62- 


OVEN  BARBECUED  CHICKEN 

Select  nice  plump  young  friers,  weighing  from  2V2  to  3  lbs.  each. 
Dress.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  or  quarters.  Salt  and  pepper  them. 
Arrange  them  in  single  layers,  skin  side  up  in  roasting  pan.  Pour  in 
enough  hot  water  to  cover  bottom  of  pan.  Slice  1  medium  size  onion 
per  chicken  over  them,  placing  a  slice  under  the  wings  and  legs. 
Place  fryers  in  oven,  uncovered,  which  has  been  heated  to  350  de- 
grees. Bake  for  V2  hour.  Remove  from  oven.  Turn  each  piece  care- 
fully over.  Place  in  oven  for  another  Vi  hour  at  350  degrees.  Sauce 
for  chicken  can  be  made  the  day  before  or  while  the  fryers  are 
baking. 

IV2  cups  canned  tomato  juice  in  a  sauce  pan. 

Stir  in  —  Add  — 

Va  tsp.  cayenne  pepper  3/4  cup  apple  vinegar 

2  tsp.  salt  3  peeled  cloves  of  garlic  cut  in 
Va  tsp.  black  pepper  pieces 

Va  tsp.  powdered  mustard  3  tbs.  butter 

AVi  tsp.  Worchester  sauce  1  tsp.  sugar 

1  bay  leaf 

Simmer  the  sauce  for  10  minutes.  Stir  to  mix  ingredients.  When  the 
fryers  have  baked  a  full  hour,  Vi  hour  on  each  side,  remove  from 
oven.  Pour  off  all  but  3/4  cup  of  liquid  in  bottom  of  pan.  Turn 
fryers,  skin  side  up  and  pour  hot  sauce  over  all  of  it.  Place  the 
fryers  back  in  the  350  degree  oven.  Bake  1  hour  longer,  or  until  it 
forks  done.  During  this  time,  baste  frequently  with  sauce  from  bot- 
tom of  pan. 

Miss  Penn  Stewart 


CHICKEN  PIE  NO.  2 

Pie  Crust:  3/4  cup  shortening 

2Va  cups  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

Va  cup  cold  water  Va  tsp.  baking  powder 

Divide  dough  in  halves  for  top  and  bottom  crusts. 

2  cups  cooked  chicken  cut  in  Vi  tsp.  flour 

1"  pieces  dash  of  pepper 

1  Vi  cups  rich  broth  1    tablespoon    butter 

tine  one  9-inch  pie  dish  with  unbaked  pastry.  Place  in  this  the  chic- 
ken and  broth;  sprinkle  with  flour,  pepper  and  dot  with  butter. 
Cover  with  other  half  of  dough  and  seal  edges  thoroughly.  Take  one 
tablespoon  of  soft  (not  melted)  butter  and  two  tablespoons  flour  and 
mix  until  it  can  be  sprinkled  over  the  top  crust  like  crumbs  of  bread. 
Bake  until  a  golden  brown  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.   Henry  Reed 

-63- 


CHICKEN  LOAF 

1  grown  chicken  cut  up  like  6  eggs  (boiled  and  chipped) 

chicken  salad  4  eggs  (beaten) 

Vi  lb.  crackers  rolled  fine  Salt  and  pepper 
1  qt.  chicken  broth 

Bake  in  oven  in  long  pan  1  V/i"yJA  /2.  Cut  in  squares  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Frank  Pfaff 


CHICKEN  CHOW  MEIN 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

1  cup  cooked  chicken  (boned)  2  tbs.  cornstarch 

2  cups  chicken  broth  3  tbs.  soy  sauce 

2  cups  thinly  sliced  celery  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

IV2  cup  sliced  onions 

Add  the  celery  and  onions  to  the  chicken  and  broth,  and  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  covered  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Mix  corn- 
starch with  soy  sauce,  and  add  to  the  hot  mixture  stirring  constantly. 
Let  simmer  until  slightly  thickened.  To  serve,  arrange  canned  fried 
noodles  on  plates.  Over  this,  put  a  generous  serving  of  the  Chow 
Mein,  and  top  with  V2  cup  of  cooked  rice.  Serve  with  soy  sauce. 

Mrs.  Jack  Crews 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING 

1  can  Cream  of  Mushroom  soup        V2  cup  pimiento  (cut  in  strips 
V2  cup  top  milk  Vs"  wide  by  1"  long) 

1  cup  diced  cooked  chicken  1  egg  yolk 

Empty  can  cream  mushroom  soup  into  a  sauce  pan  and  stir  well. 
Add  V2  cup  cold  top  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly.  Heat  to  the 
bailing  point  and  add  the  diced  chicken  and  pimento.  Then  add  the 
beaten  egg  yolk  which  has  been  diluted  with  some  of  the  hot  sauce. 
Heat  but  do  not  boil  and  serve  on  toast  or  patty  shells. 

Mrs.  Grady  Dixon 

WHOLE  CRANBERRY  SAUCE 

1  cup  light  syrup  1   lb.  cranberries 

V2  cup  sugar  Juice  and  grate  rind  of  1  orange 

1  cup  water 

Boil  syrup,  sugar  and  water  together  5  minutes.  Add  cranberries, 
orange  rind  and  juice  and  boil  gently  without  stirring  until  skins  pop 
oj^en,  about  5  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and  allow  sauce  to  remain 
in  saucepan  until  cold.  Do  not  stir  while  warm. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Kimball 

-64- 


SPAGHETTI 

1    lb.    Hamburger  V2  lb.  cheese  (sharp) 

1   chopped  pepper  2  cans  tomato  soup 

1  chopped  onion  1   pkg.  of  spaghetti 

Cook  spaghetti   and  drain.  Add  other   ingredients  to  spaghetti   and 
cook  slowly,  stirring  often. 

Mrs.  O.  E.  Stimpson 


SPAGHETTI  WITH  MEAT  SAUCE 

1   lb.  ground  beef  Worchestershire  sauce  or  catsup 

1  green  pepper  1  box  thin  spaghetti 

1  onion  Vi  cup  grated  cheddar  cheese  (or 
1  quart  tomatoes  other  rich-flavored  Ameri- 

Salt  and  pepper  can  cheese) 

Brown  ground  beef  in  a  little  fat  in  heavy  frying  pan.  Add  chop- 
ped pepper  and  onion.  Add  tomatoes  and  simmer  at  least  an  hour. 
Season  to  taste.  Cook  spaghetti  according  to  instructions  on  pack- 
age. Place  on  platter;  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  cover  with 
meat  sauce.  Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  Raymond  Ebert 


ESCALLOPED  EGGS 

3  hard-cooked  eggs  3/4  cup  cooked  materials; 

2  cups  white  sauce  ground  ham,  flaked  fish, 

V2  cup  bread  crumbs  crabmeat,  or  chopped 

1  tablespoon  butter  chicken 

Arrange  alternate  layers  of  sliced  eggs  and  other  cooked  material 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  white  sauce  over  mixture,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Bobby  Snipes 

FRANKFURTERS  BAKED  WITH  POTATO  SALAD 

3/4  lb.  frankfurters  4  tbs.  butter  or  margarine 

1   egg  V2  cup  chopped  celery 

4  cups  mashed  potatoes  XA  cup  chopped  onions 

1  tbs.  prepared  mustard  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  tbs.  vinegar 

Beat  egg  and  add  to  potatoes.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Place  in  casserole  and  bake  in  350  degree  oven  30  min- 
utes. Top  with  frankfurters  and  bake  for  10  minutes  longer  to  heat 
franks. 

Mrs.  Lagette  Woosley 

-65- 


BAKED  SQUASH 

(A  Meat  Substitute  with  a  Vegetable  Dinner) 

2  cups  steamed  squash  1/3  cup  grated  cheese 

1    hard  boiled  egg  Cream 

1  tsp.  minced  onion  Butter 

V2  cup  cracker  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Combine  squash  with  chopped  egg,  onion,  cracker  crumbs,  and 
cheese.  Add  a  little  cream  and  seasoning.  Place  in  greased  casserole 
and  dot  with  butter.  The  amount  of  cream  and  cracker  crumbs  will 
vary  because  of  "watery"  condition  of  squash.  Onion  and  cheese  pro- 
portions may  be  increased  or  lessened  to  suit  the  family's  taste.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  it  begins  to  brown. 

Mrs.  Raymond  Ebert 

HAMBURGER  STEAK  WITH  MUSHROOM  SOUP 

1   lb.  Hamburger  Steak  1   Egg 

1  can  Mushroom  soup  Salt  and  Pepper 

1  Onion  —  chopped  (optional) 

Mix  Hamburger  steak,  onion,  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  into  pat- 
ties and  brown  in  hot  fat.  Put  browned  patties  in  casserole  and  add 
mushroom  soup  and  Va  can  of  water.  Bake  in  oven  375  degrees 
about  40  minutes. 

Miss  Ethel  Thomason 

AMERICAN  CHOP  SUEY 

1  lb.  ground  beef  1  can  tomato  soup  or  1  can 

2  cups  cooked  spaghetti  cooked  tomatoes 
1  large  onion  cut  fine                         Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  onion  slowly  in  frying  pan  until  tender.  Add  ground  beef  a 
little  at  a  time,  mashing  with  a  fork  until  crumbly  and  browning 
thoroughly.  Add  tomatoes  or  tomato  soup  and  spaghetti  and  mix 
well.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Sapp 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

3  eggs  V2  tsp.  salt 
1  cup  milk  1   tbs.  fat 

1  cup  grated  cheese  pepper 

1   cup  bread  crumbs 

Scald  milk  and  pour  it  over  the  bread  crumbs.  Add  the  fat,  cheese 
salt.  Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately.  First,  add  beaten  yolks  to 
the  cheese  mixture  and  then  fold  in  the  egg  whites.  Put  in  baking 
dish  and  bake  until  firm.  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  William  Hine 

-66- 


Pastries  and  Desserts 

BLUEBERRY  PIE 

Drain  juice  from  pint  can  of  blueberries.  Put  juice  in  saucepan,  add 
2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour  and  V2  cup  sugar.  (Dis- 
solve flour  well).  Cook  these  ingredients  until  they  reach  a  rather 
thick  consistency!  Remove  the  pan  from  stove  and  add  the  berries 
to  this  thickened  juice.  Pour  this  mixture  into  a  baked  pastry  shell. 
Make  meringue  using  3  egg  whites,  beaten  stiffly  with  3  tablespoons 
sugar.  Cover  pie  with  meringue  and  brown  in  over  of  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Sapp 


WHOLE  WHEAT  PASTRY 

IV2  cups  sifted  whole  wheat  flour      V2  cup  shortening 
V2  teaspoon  salt  Ice  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt.  Cut  in  shortening.  Add  enough  ice  water  to  hold 
together.  Chill  thoroughly.  Roll  to  size  desired. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Jones 


BUTTERMILK  AND  SODA  PIE  CRUST 

(For  2  Pie  Crusts) 

IV2  cups  flour  2  or  3  tablespoons  buttermilk 

1   teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  (scant)  lard 

Soda  (good  size  pinch) 

Mrs.  Roy  C.  Pulliam 

HOT  WATER  PASTRY 

IV2  cups  flour  7  tablespoons  shortening 

V2  teaspoon  salt  Va  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Va  cup  boiling  water 

Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  shortening  in  mixing  bowl  and  beat  until  smooth.  Sift  in  dry 
ingredients.  Beat  until  mixture  forms  a  smooth  ball.  Chill  thoroughly. 
Roll  one-eighth  inch  thick  and  shape  in  pie  pan. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Hastings 

CHERRY  PIE 

1  can  sour  cherries  1   tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1   teaspoon  butter 

Put  cherries,  sugar,  flour  and  butter  into  a  pan.  Let  this  heat  enough 
to  thicken  flour.  Pour  into  pie  crust.  Cover  the  top  crust  with  sugar. 

Mrs.  B.  L.  Stewart 

-67- 


GRAHAM  CRACKER  PIE  CRUST 

16  graham  crackers,  rolled  fine        Va  cup  butter,  softened 
Va  cup  white  sugar 

Mix  above  ingredients  in  bowl  and  put  in  glass  pie  plate.  Use  spoon 
and  spread.  Then  add  filling  and  put  meringue  on  top.  Return  to 
oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Walter  W.  Hine 


FLAKY  PIE  CRUST 

2Va  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour      3/4  cup  shortening 

3/4  teaspoon  salt  6  to  7  tablespoons  ice  water 

Sift  flour  and  salt  together.  Blend  shortening  with  dry  ingredients. 
Sprinkle  water,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  over  mixture,  working  it  in 
lightly  until  all  particles  are  moistened  and  in  small  lumps.  Divide 
in  half;  form  two  balls.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper  and  chill  for  one 
hour.  Bake  as  directed  in  individual  recipe  for  pie.  Makes  enough 
for  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  Richard  H.  Reed 


APPLE  CHEESE  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  1  quart  peeled,  sliced  apples 
3/4  cup  water                                       Baked  9-inch  pie  shell 
Juice  of  1    lemon  1   cup  grated  cheese 

Combine  sugar,  water  and  lemon  juice  in  saucepan  and  bring  to 
boil.  Then  add  sliced  apples  and  simmer,  covered,  until  apples  are 
soft,  stirring  carefully  and  occasionally.  Arrange  apples  in  the  baked 
pastry  shell  and  sprinkle  the  grated  cheese  over  the  top.  Place  under 
boiler  to  toast  cheese  topping,  if  desired,  or  serve  without  toasting. 
Serve  pie  warm  or  cold  as  preferred.  Serves  6. 

Miss   Dartha   Ingram 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE 

3/4  cup  sugar  Va  teaspoon  vanilla 

1/3  cup  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 

Va  teaspoon  salt  1   cup  shredded  coconut 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  bananas 

Combine  butter  and  sugar,  salt,  eggs  and  flour.  Add  milk  slowly, 
stirring  constantly.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick  and  smooth.  Cool. 
Add  flavoring.  Put  a  layer  of  bananas  on  baked  pie  shell,  sprinkle 
with  shredded  coconut,  cover  with  half  of  filling;  another  layer  of 
bananas  and  coconut  and  remainder  of  filling.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Boyan 

-68- 


BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE  NO.  1 

3  egg  yolks  Va  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  tablespoons  butter 
3V2  tablespoons  cornstarch  1    teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  milk 

Beat  egg  yolks  with  sugar,-  mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  water  to 
make  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  first  mixture,  then  add  milk  and  salt. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
fire  and  add  butter  and  vanilla.  Cool;  pour  into  baked  pie  crust.  Top 
with  meringue  or  whipped  cream.  If  topped  with  meringue,  bake  in 
325  degree  oven  for  10-15  minutes  or  until  brown.  Makes  one  9- 
inch  pie. 

Mrs.  William  Weavil 


BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE  NO.  2 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  flour 

4  egg  yolks  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell  and  bake  in  moderately  hot 
oven. 

Mrs.  Norman  Willard 


BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE  NO.  3 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  flour  2  tablespoons  butter 
Va  teaspoon  salt  2  egg  yolks 

Cook  in  heavy  saucepan  until  thick.  Add  1  tablespoon  vanilla  and 
mix.  Also  1  cup  of  shredded  coconut  may  be  added  if  desired.  Use 
egg  whites  for  meringue. 

Mrs.  Walter  W.  Hines 


RAISIN  SPICE  FILLING 
(for  pies  or  tarts) 

IV2  cups  seedless  raisins  Vi  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  grated  apples  Va  teaspoon  nutmeg 

3  tablespoons  shortening  Va  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  grated  lemon  rind      Dash  of  cloves 

4  tablespoons  honey  Vi  cup  chopped  walnuts 
V2  cup  cider 

Mix  ingredients  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  thick,  about  20  minutes. 
Yields  about  one  and  three-fourths  cups  filling. 

Mrs.  E.N.  Hine,  Jr. 

-69- 


RHUBARB  PIE 

1  egg,  well  beaten  V2  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  cup  sugar  Vi  cup  raisins  (optional) 

1  cup  finely  sliced  rhubarb  2  tablespoons  butter 

Combine  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  rhubarb,  crumbs,  few  grains  salt, 
raisins  and  butter  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  pastry  lined  pie 
plate.  Cover  with  top  crust.  Bake  at  245  degrees  for  about  45  min- 
utes. 

Mrs.  Fred  Brincefield 


MINCEMEAT  PIE 
(Makes  10  pies) 


Sugar  to  taste— approx.  2  lbs. 
1  teaspoon  salt 
Vi  gal  cider 

Cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  to 
taste 


3  lbs  neck  of  beef 

1    lb.  currants 

1   lb.  raisins 

Small  piece  of  citron 

1   lb.  suet 

1  qt.  chopped  apples 

Chop  beef,  raisins,  citron,  apples  and  suet.  Combine  all  ingredients 
and  mix  well.  This  keeps  well  and  is  better  than  commercial  mince- 
meat since  it  has  meat  in  it. 

Mrs.  John  McCuiston 


FRUIT  COBBLER 


1  egg,  beaten 

1    tablespoon   butter,   melted 
Fresh  or  canned  fruit, 
sweetened 


1  cup  flour 

1/3  cup  sugar 

!4  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Va  cup  milk 

Heat  fruit  to  boiling  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
sugar,  and  salt  into  mixing  bowl.  Add  milk,  beaten  egg  and  melted 
butter.  Mix  lightly.  Arrange  fruit  in  bottom  of  baking  dish.  Spread 
batter  over  hot  fruit.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  of  400  degrees  until  brown. 
Serve  with  fruit  sauce  or  cream. 

Mrs.  Luther  Hine 

EGG  CUSTARD 


3/4  cup  sugar 

1   tablespoon  butter 


3  eggs 

2  scant  cups  milk,  sweet 

V2  tsp.  lemon  or  vanilla  flavoring 

Beat  eggs  well,  and  pour  in  milk  and  flavoring.  Add  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  mixing  with  eggs.  Beat  thoroughly  and  pour  in  un- 
baked pie  crust.  Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Georgia  Stewart 


-70- 


CHOCOLATE  PIE  NO.  1  (Original) 

1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoon  cocoa 

1   cup  condensed  milk  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

3  egg  yolks  1/8  teaspoon  salt 
3  tbs.  cornstarch  (heaping) 

Blend  sugar,  cornstarch,  cocoa  and  salt.  Beat  egg  yolks  in  milk 
thoroughly,  add  to  first  mixture.  Pour  into  double  boiler  and  stir 
constantly.  Add  butter  and  vanilla  when  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
When  thick  remove  from  heat  and  pour  into  a  baked  pie  shell.  Cover 
with  meringue. 

Mrs,  Ralph  Woosley 


CHOCOLATE  PIE  NO.  2 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  square  chocolate  (chipped) 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  2  cups  milk 

V2  teaspoon  salt  2  eggs,  separated 

Vi  cup  sugar  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Blend  dry  ingredients.  Add  chipped  chocolate  and  milk.  Place  over 
direct  heat,  stirring  constantly.  Mixture  will  look  curdled  until  choco- 
late melts.  After  mixture  thickens,  add  small  amount  of  hot  mixture 
to  egg  yolks,  then  add  yolks  to  mixture,  stirring  vigorously  until 
blended.  Continue  cooking  for  2  minutes.  Lastly  add  vanilla.  Pour 
into  baked  pie  shell.  Top  with  meringue. 

Mrs.  Pete  Smith 


COCONUT  BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

3/4  cup  flour  3  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 

IV2  cups  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

Va  teaspoon  salt  IV2  teaspoons  vanilla 

3  cups  milk,  scalded  1   cup  coconut 

Combine  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  milk  gradually,  place  in  double 
boiler,  and  cook  until  thickened,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  Small 
amount  of  mixture  over  egg  yolks,  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook 
3  to  4  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  fire;  add  butter,  vanilla  and 
coconut.  Cool  and  pour  into  baked  pie  shell.  Top  with  meringue 
made  of  6  tablespoons  sugar,  3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten  and 
sprinkle  with  V2  cup  coconut.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  1  2  to  15  min- 
utes until  delicately  brown. 

Mrs.  L  Doyle  Chappell 

-71- 


CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE 


3  squares  chocolate,  finely  cut 
21/2  cups  cold  milk 

4  egg  yolks,  beaten 
4  tablespoons  flour 


2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 
V2  teaspoon  salt 


Add  chocolate  to  milk  and  heat  in  double  boiler.  When  chocolate  is 
melted,  beat  until  well  blended.  Combine  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Add 
to  egg  yolks.  Pour  small  amount  of  chocolate  mixture  over  egg 
mixture,  stirring  vigorously.  Return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  butter  and  vanilla,  cool  and  pour 
into  pie  shell. 

Mrs.  Carl  Ingram 

COCONUT  CREAM  PIE 


IV2  cups  scalded  milk 

3  egg  yolks 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  shredded  coconut 


9-inch  pie  pan 
V2  cup  sugar 
5  tablespoons  flour 
1/8  teaspoon  salt 
14  cup  cold  milk 

Blend  sugar,  flour  and  salt  with  cold  milk.  Add  scalded  milk  while 
stirring  and  stir  constantly.  Cook  on  low  heat  until  thick.  Add  beat- 
en egg  yolks,  then  cook  2  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  heat,  add 
vanilla  and  coconut.  Cool  and  pour  into  baked  pie  shell  and  cover 
with  meringue. 

Mrs.   Ralph  Woosley 

COCONUT  CUSTARD  PIE 


3/4  cup  sugar 

1  cup  milk 

2  cups  grated  coconut 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch 


1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter 

3  eggs 


Mix  cornstarch,  sugar  and  milk  together.  Separate  eggs,  add  yolks 
to  milk  and  sugar  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Add  butter,  coconut  and  lemon  juice.  Stir  constantly,  until  thick 
enough  for  pie.  Pour  into  baked  crust.  Make  meringue  of  egg  whites, 
using  3  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Put  over  top  and  bake  in  slow  oven 
until  brown  or  about  10  mintes. 

Mrs.  Russell  Hine 

MOLASSES  PIE 

1   cup  molasses  (Porto  Rico)  V2  cup  butter 

1  cup  brown  sugar  3  eggs 

Mix  sugar,   molasses,   butter  and   add   eggs  that   have   been   lightly 

beaten.  Pour  into  unbaked  pastry  and  bake. 

From  Mrs.  C.  E.  Ebert's  Cook  Book 


-72- 


COCONUT-PUMPKIN    PIE 


IV2  cups  cooked  pumpkin 
1  cup  rich  milk 
1  cup  sugar 
Va  tsp.  salt 


2  egg  yolks 

V2  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tbs.  butter  or  butter  substitute 

V2  cup  shredded  coconut 


Other  spices  can  be  substituted  for  cinnamon.  Combine  ingredients. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
425  degrees  for  about  45  minutes,  or  until  an  inserted  knife  comes 
out  clean.  Cover  with  meringue  made  of  two  egg  whites,  2/3  tea- 
spoons sugar,  V2  to  2/3  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  sprinkle  with 
coconut.  Return  to  oven  at  325  degrees  and  bake  about  10  minutes 
or  until  light  brown.  Makes  one  9-inch  pie. 

Mrs.  William  Weavil 


LEMON  PIE 


1  cup  sugar 

4  tablespoons  cornstarch 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

IV2  cups  boiling  water 


Juice  of  1   large  lemon 

1  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind 

2  egg  yolks 

3  tablespoons  butter 


Blend  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt  and  stir  into  boiling  water,  mixing 
until  smooth.  Using  heavy  saucepan,  cook  over  low  heat,  stirring 
constantly,  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Blend  lemon  juice,  grated  rind  and 
egg  yolks  together.  Add  hot  sauce  gradually,  return  to  heat  and 
cook  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  butter  and  remove  from 
heat;  pour  into  8-inch  pie  crust  (baked)  cover  with  meringue  and 
brown  about  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Sam  Reid 


LEMON  CREAM  PIE 


4  eggs 

2   heaping  tablespoons  floor 

1  cup  sugar 


Grated  rind  and  juice  of  2 

lemons 
H/2  cups  boiling  water 


Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  To  beaten  yolks  add  sugar, 
flour,  lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double  boil- 
er and  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  V2  of  beaten  whites.  Stir  in 
thoroughly  and  cook  until  thick  as  desired.  Fill  baked  pie  shell  and 
use  remainder  of  egg  whites  for  meringue  on  top  of  pie. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Thomason 

-73- 


LEMON  PIE 


3   tablespoons  cornstarch 

1  cup  sugar 

IV2  cups  boiling  water 


3  egg  yolks 

Juice  and  rind  of  1   lemon 

1   tablespoon  butter 


Mix  cornstarch,  sugar;  add  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
butter  and  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  lemon.  Cook  until  thick  and  put 
into  baked  pie  crust.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar  and  put 
on  top  of  pie  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  B.  L.  Stewart 


LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 


V2  cup  cold  water 
7  tablespoons  cornstarch 
1  tablespoon  butter 
1 V2  cups  hot  water 


VA  cups  sugar 

2  lemons  (grated  rind  and  juice) 

3  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 


Mix  cold  water  and  cornstarch.  Combine  hot  water  and  sugar  with 
cornstarch  mixture.  Add  butter.  Cook  over  moderate  heat  until  mix- 
ture thickens.  Stir  some  of  hot  mixture  into  egg  yolks.  Then  add 
yolks  to  hot  mixture  stirring  constantly.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind 
and  cook  until  mixture  thickens.  Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell.  Top 
with  meringue. 

Mrs.  Curtis  Weavil 


FROZEN  LEMON  PIE 


2  eggs 

Vi  cup  sugar 

1  cup  evaporated  milk 


V2  cup  cookie  or  cake  Crumbs 
1/3  cup  lemon  juice 
Rind  of  V*  lemon 


Beat  egg  yolks  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  all  but  1  tablespoon 
sugar.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind  sliced  from  lemon.  Cook  over  boil- 
ing water  until  thickened  (10  minutes)  stirring  constantly,  remove 
lemon  rind,  cool.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  remaining  sugar 
and  beat  until  whites  hold  peak.  Fold  into  custard  mixture.  Whip 
milk  until  stiff,  fold  into  mixture.  Butter  refrigerator  tray,  sprinkle 
with  Va  cup  of  crumbs.  Pour  in  lemon  mixture,  sprinkle  with  re- 
maining crumbs.  Freeze.  Serves  6  to  8,  cut  into  pie  shaped  wedges. 

Mrs.  Carl  Ingram 

TARTS  NO.  1 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

3  eggs  Butter  size  of  small  egg 

2  cups  brown  sugar  (not  packed) 

Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  sugar.  Add  butter  chipped  into  small  pieces. 
Mix.  Fill  pastry  lined  tart  pans  and  bake  until  brown  at  375  degrees. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Ingram 


-74- 


COCONUT-PUMPKIN    PIE 


IV2  cups  cooked  pumpkin 
1  cup  rich  milk 
1  cup  sugar 
Va  tsp.  salt 


2  egg  yolks 

I/2  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tbs.  butter  or  butter  substitute 

V2  cup  shredded  coconut 


Other  spices  can  be  substituted  for  cinnamon.  Combine  ingredients. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Pour  into  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
425  degrees  for  about  45  minutes,  or  until  an  inserted  knife  comes 
out  clean.  Cover  with  meringue  made  of  two  egg  whites,  2/3  tea- 
spoons sugar,  V2  to  2/3  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  sprinkle  with 
coconut.  Return  to  oven  at  325  degrees  and  bake  about  10  minutes 
or  until  light  brown.  Makes  one  9-inch  pie. 

Mrs.  William  Weavil 


LEMON  PIE 


1  cup  sugar 

4  tablespoons  cornstarch 

V2  teaspoon  salt 

Vh  cups  boiling  water 


Juice  of  1   large  lemon 

1  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind 

2  egg  yolks 

3  tablespoons  butter 


Blend  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt  and  stir  into  boiling  water,  mixing 
until  smooth.  Using  heavy  saucepan,  cook  over  low  heat,  stirring 
constantly,  for  10  to  12  minutes.  Blend  lemon  juice,  grated  rind  and 
egg  yolks  together.  Add  hot  sauce  gradually,  return  to  heat  and 
cook  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  butter  and  remove  from 
heat;  pour  into  8-inch  pie  crust  (baked)  cover  with  meringue  and 
brown  about  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  Sam  Reid 


LEMON  CREAM  PIE 


4  eggs 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1  cup  sugar 


Grated   rind  and   juice  of  2 

lemons 
IV2  cups  boiling  water 


Beat  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs  separately.  To  beaten  yolks  add  sugar, 
flour,  lemon  juice  and  rind,  and  boiling  water.  Cook  in  double  boil- 
er and  when  it  begins  to  thicken,  add  V2  of  beaten  whites.  Stir  in 
thoroughly  and  cook  until  thick  as  desired.  Fill  baked  pie  shell  and 
use  remainder  of  egg  whites  for  meringue  on  top  of  pie. 


Mrs.  A.  C.  Thomason 


-73- 


LEMON  PIE 


3   tablespoons   cornstarch 

1  cup  sugar 

IV2  cups  boiling  water 


3  egg  yolks 

Juice  and  rind  of  1   lemon 

1   tablespoon  butter 


Mix  cornstarch,  sugar;  add  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.  Add 
butter  and  eggs,  juice  and  rind  of  lemon.  Cook  until  thick  and  put 
into  baked  pie  crust.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar  and  put 
on  top  of  pie  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  B.  L.  Stewart 


LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 


I/2  cup  cold  water 
7  tablespoons  cornstarch 
1   tablespoon  butter 
V/2  cups  hot  water 


VA  cups  sugar 

2  lemons  (grated  rind  and  juice) 

3  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten 


Mix  cold  water  and  cornstarch.  Combine  hot  water  and  sugar  with 
cornstarch  mixture.  Add  butter.  Cook  over  moderate  heat  until  mix- 
ture thickens.  Stir  some  of  hot  mixture  into  egg  yolks.  Then  add 
yolks  to  hot  mixture  stirring  constantly.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind 
and  cook  until  mixture  thickens.  Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell.  Top 
with  meringue. 

Mrs.  Curtis  Weavil 


FROZEN  LEMON  PIE 


2  eggs 

V%  cup  sugar 

1  cup  evaporated  milk 


V2  cup  cookie  or  cake  Crumbs 
1/3  cup  lemon  juice 
Rind  of  14  lemon 


Beat  egg  yolks  in  top  of  double  boiler,  add  all  but  1  tablespoon 
sugar.  Add  lemon  juice  and  rind  sliced  from  lemon.  Cook  over  boil- 
ing water  until  thickened  (10  minutes)  stirring  constantly,  remove 
lemon  rind,  cool.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  remaining  sugar 
and  beat  until  whites  hold  peak.  Fold  into  custard  mixture.  Whip 
milk  until  stiff,  fold  into  mixture.  Butter  refrigerator  tray,  sprinkle 
with  Va  cup  of  crumbs.  Pour  in  lemon  mixture,  sprinkle  with  re- 
maining crumbs.  Freeze.  Serves  6  to  8,  cut  into  pie  shaped  wedges. 

Mrs.  Carl   Ingram 

TARTS  NO.  1 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

3  eggs  Butter  size  of  small  egg 

2  cups  brown  sugar  (not  packed) 

Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  sugar.  Add  butter  chipped  into  small  pieces. 
Mix.  Fill  pastry  lined  tart  pans  and  bake  until  brown  at  375  degrees. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Ingram 


-74- 


TARTS  NO.  2 

6  egg  yolks  1   tablespoon  cream 

2  egg  whites  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

2  cups  brown  sugar  Vi  lb.  butter 

Cream  together,  place  in  pastry  shell  and  bake  until  golden  brown 
in  oven  of  300  degrees  for  40  to  45  minutes.  Makes  3  dozen  tarts. 

Mrs.  William  Hine 


CHESS  TARTS 

12  egg  yolks  Vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  pecans 
!/a  lb.  butter 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and  cream  together.  Add  egg  yolks  and 
mix.  Add  flavoring  and  nuts  if  desired.  Pour  in  pastry  lined  shells 
and  bake  in  medium  oven  of  325  degrees. 

Mrs.  Grover  Hedgecock 

CHESS  PIE  NO.  1 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  egg  yolks 

5  tablespoons  cream  1  tablespoon  flour 

3  tablespoons  butter  Vanilla 

Cream  butter.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Beat  slightly,  leaving  in 
lumpy  consistency.  Pour  in  unbaked  pastry  shell  and  bake  at  350 
degrees  for  35  minutes.  Top  with  meringue. 

Mrs.  Curtis  Weavil 


BROWN  SUGAR  PIE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

3  tablespoons  sweet  milk 

Mix  above  ingredients  and  pour  in  an  unbaked  pie  shell  or  tart  shells 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Raisins,  coconut  or  pecans  may 
be  added. 

Mrs.  Walter  W.  Hines 


BROWN  SUGAR  TARTS 

1    lb.  brown  sugar  Add  2  whole  eggs 

V2  lb.  butter  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

6  egg  yolks 

Mix  well.  Bake  in  oven  of  350  degrees. 

Mrs.   Brooklyn  Vogler 

-75- 


BROWN  SUGAR  PiE  WITH  VINEGAR 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  to  3  tbs.  cream  or  milk 

2  to  3  tablespoons  flour  IV2  teaspoons  vinegar 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  into  bowl  brown  sugar  and  add  flour  and  mix  well.  Add  eggs, 
that  have  been  slightly  beaten,  add  milk  and  mix  well.  Add  vinegar 
and  vanilla  and  mix  well.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell  and  dot  with 
butter.  Bake  in  oven  of  350  degrees  until  almost  set.  Makes  one 
eight  inch  pie. 

Mrs.  L.  Doyle  Chappell 


PUMPKIN  CREAM  PIE 

3/4  cup  brown  sugar  Va  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch  IV2  cups  cooked  pumpkin 

Va  teaspoon  ginger  1  cup  sweet  milk 

Va  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  eggs 
Va  teaspoon  salt 

Bake  in  8-inch  pie  shell.  When  cool  top  with  whipped  cream  and 
sugar. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Canada 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

1    cup  cooked   pumpkin  2  tablespoons  butter 

1   egg,  beaten  separate  Va  teaspoon  salt 

V2  cup  whole  milk  1    teaspoon  cinnamon 

1   tablespoon  flour  Va  cup  coconut 

V2  cup  sugar  V2  cup  pecans 

Beat  egg  yolk  and  add  to  pumpkin.  Add  sugar,  flour,  butter,  salt, 
cinnamon  and  pecans.  Fold  in  egg  white.  Pour  in  pie  pan  and 
sprinkle  coconut  on  top  of  pie.  Bake  in  oven  of  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Numa  Smith 


BUTTERMILK  CUSTARD  PIE 

2  eggs  V2  teaspoon  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  flour  Vi   teaspoon   soda   dissolved   in 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  buttermilk 

Butter  size  of  walnut  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Mix   and   pour  on   unbaked   pie   crust.   Bake   until   custard    is   set   in 
moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Roy  C.  Pulliam 

-76- 


PECAN  PIE 

1  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

3/4  cup  white  syrup  I  cup  pecan  meats 

Combine  sugar,  syrup  and  eggs  and  beat.  Place  nuts  in  pie  shell 
and  pour  mixture  over  it.  Bake  in  oven  of  400  degrees  for  10  min- 
utes, then  turn  heat  back  to  350  degrees  and  finish  baking. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Reed 


PRIZE  PECAN  PIE 

3  eggs  Vb  teaspoon  salt 

1   cup  dark  corn  syrup  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  pecan  meats 

Beat  eggs  lightly.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Pour  into  pie  shell 
and  bake  in  slow  oven  of  300  degrees  for  one  hour  or  until  set. 
Makes  one  9-inch  pie. 

Mrs.  Raleigh  Ingram 


PINEAPPLE  PECAN  PIE 

2, cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  pineapple 

2  eggs,  well  beaten  V%  cup  nuts 

1   tablespoon  flour  Butter  size  of  walnut 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  in  oven 
of  375  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Boyan 


CREAM  PUFFS 

Vi  cup  butter  1   cup  flour 

1  cup  water  4  eggs 
V4  teaspoon  salt 

Bring  water  and  butter  to  boiling  point.  Add  flour,  stir  until  it  leaves 
sides  of  pan.  Take  from  stove,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well 
before  adding  another.  Drop  by  tablespoons  onto  greased  baking 
pan.  Bake  for  40  to  45  minutes  in  oven  of  375  degrees  or  until 
delicately  browned. 

Custard  For  Filling  Cream  Puffs 

2  cups  milk  Dash  salt 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  cornstarch 

;!, cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  milk  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Add  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  and 
cornstarch.  Cook  until  thickened.  Add  vanilla.  Cool  before  filling 
puffs. 

Mrs.  Ricks  Sink 

-77- 


MERINGUES 

6  eggs  white  Vh  cups  sugar 

Va  teaspoon  salt  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Va  tsp.  Cream  of  tartar 

Beat  the  egg  whites  until  frothy;  sprinkle  salt  and  cream  of  tartar 
over  them.  Continue  beating  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  Gradually  beat 
in  the  sugar,  adding  vanilla  with  the  last  of  the  sugar.  Shape  by 
spoon  or  pastry  bag  in  mounds  on  a  baking  sheet  covered  with  un- 
glazed  paper. 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven  (275  degrees  about  40  minutes  or  until  very 
delicately  browned  and  dry  on  the  surface.  Remove  from  the  paper 
while  warm.  If  difficult  to  remove,  dip  a  spatula  in  water. 

VARIATIONS: 

Meringue  Kisses:  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  onto  a  baking  sheet  covered 
with  unglazed  paper.  Pile  the  kisses  high  in  the  center.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  (275  degrees)  about  30  minutes  or  until  delicately  brown- 
ed. 

Nut  Kisses:  Fold  IV2  cups  chopped  nuts  into  meringue  mixture  be- 
fore dropping  kisses. 

Coconut  Kisses:  Fold  1  V2  cups  shredded  coconut  into  meringue  mix- 
ture before  dropping  kisses. 

Butter-Crunch  Kisses:  Fold  IV2  cups  crushed  butter  crunch  or  any 
brittle  into  the  meringue  mixture  before  dropping  kisses. 

Meringue  Shells:  With  a  pastry  bag  shape  rounds  of  meringue  3  to 
4  inches  in  diameter  on  unglazed  paper  on  a  baking  sheet.  Build  up 
the  sides  to  a  depth  of  about  IV2  inches  by  laying  several  coils  of 
meringue  in  layers  one  on  top  of  another.  The  top  layer  may  be 
done  with  the  rosette  point,  placing  a  row  of  rosettes  all  around  the 
top.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  (275  degrees)  about  50  minutes.  These 
shells  may  be  filled  with  ice  cream  or  fresh  fruit  or  berries  topped 
with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Richard  H.  Reed 


TURKISH  DELIGHT 

1    pkg.  pitted  dates  1    egg 

1   cup  boiling  water  1   cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar  I/2  cup  chopped  nuts 

3  tbs.  melted  butter  1   tsp.  soda 

Cut  dales  in  small  pieces  and  place  in  boiling  water.  Let  cool  and 
add  soda.  Cream  together  sugar,  butter,  eggs,  flour,  and  nuts,-  add 
pitted  dates  and  water  with  soda.  Bake  at  375  degrees  20  minutes 
in  a  sheet  pan.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Sam  R.  Reid 

-78- 


ANGEL  BAVARIAN  CAKE 

Make  thin  custard  of  1  cup  sugar 

1  pint  milk  2  tbs.  flour 

2  egg  yolks  Pinch  salt 

Add  2  pkgs.  plain  gelatin  dissolved  in  Vi  cup  cold  water.  Put  in 
custard  while  hot.  Let  cool  and  fold  in  V2  pint  cream,  whipped;  and 
the  4  egg  whites,  beaten  stiffly.  Break  up  a  large  angel  food  cake 
and  line  pan.  Pour  in  custard.  Repeat  until  pan  is  full.  Let  stand  in 
ice  box  over  night.  Ice  with  V2  pint  whipped  cream  and  sprinkle 
with  coconut. 

Miss  Pena  Stewart 


BANANA  COCONUT  ROLLS 

4  ripe  bananas  Fresh  orange  slices 

2  tbs.  lemon  juice  Slices  of  pineapple 

V2  cup  canned  evaporated  Maraschino  cherries 

sweetened  milk  Crushed    pineapple 
V2  cup  coconut 

Peel  bananas.  Mix  lemon  juice  with  evaporated  sweetened  milk. 
Coat  bananas  with  milk.  Sprinkle  each  with  coconut.  Serve  with 
orange  slices,  pineapple  slices,  cherries  and  crushed  pineapple, 
served  as  a  sauce.  Serves  four. 

Mrs.  Russell  Hine 


MARSHMALLOW  ICE  CREAM 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

2  tbs.  strawberry  jam  12  marshmallows 

2  drops  red  coloring  2  cups  milk 

Vs  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  marshmallows  in  1  cup  milk  in  top  of  double  boiler  over  hot 
water.  Add  vanilla  and  cool.  When  cool  add  other  cup  milk,  jam, 
food  coloring  and  salt.  Place  in  freezing  tray  for  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Remove.  Place  in  chilled  bowl  and  beat  in  electric  mixer  until 
creamy.  Return  to  refrigerator  for  one  hour.  Serves  six. 

Mrs.   Norwood   Williams 


HOMEMADE  VANILLA  ICE  CREAM 

3  quarts  milk  2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs  1    tablespoon  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  vanilla  and  then 
milk  and  pour  into  freezer— one  gallon  freezer.  Freeze  with  crushed 
ice  and  salt.  Turn  until  hard,  then  remove  dasher  and  pack. 

Miss  Ella  Stewart 

-79- 


HEAVENLY  HASH 

18  marshmallows,  cut  into  2  or  3      Medium  size  jar  of  maraschino 

pieces  each  cherries 

No.  2  can  pineapple  1  cup  cream  before  whipped 

Put  marshmallows  and  pineapple  and  juice  together  and  let  soak 
for  3  or  more  hours.  (All  right  to  soak  overnight.)  Cut  up  cherries  in 
several  pieces.  Add  to  pineapple  and  marshmallows.  Whip  cream 
and  add  to  other  mixture.  Good  with  a  few  nuts  in  it  and  vanilla, 
but  not  necessary.  Put  in  freezing  tray  for  at  least  six  hours  or  can 
be  put  in  box  and  not  in  freezing  tray.  Serves  six  to  eight. 

From  Mrs.  N.  N.  Shore's  Cook  Book 


BAKED  PRUNE  WHIP 

2  cups  cooked  prunes  4  tbs.  powdered  sugar 

1  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind  4  egg  whites 
4  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Pit  prunes  and  mash  to  a  pulp.  Add  lemon  juice  and  peel  and  add  2 
tablespoons  sugar  and  blend  well.  Beat  whites  of  egg  until  stiff,  add 

2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  continue  beating  until  stiff. 
Whip  prune  mixture  by  spoonfuls  into  egg  whites.  Pile  lightly  in 
pudding  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  of  350  degrees  for  20 
minutes.  Lemon  peel  may  be  omitted. 

Mrs.  Ivey  Hine 


PEACH  TOPSY  TURVIES 

1/3  cup  syrup  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  butter  4  maraschino  cherries 

Va  cup  brown  sugar  1  No.  2!/2  can  peach  halves 

Boil  first  three  ingredients  for  one  minute.  Add  lemon  juice.  Divide 
equally  into  7  greased  custard  cups.  Put  half  cherry  in  center  of  each 
cup.  Place  peaches  cut  side  down  in  syrup  mixture.  Cover  peaches 
equally  with  batter.  Bake  in  oven  of  375  degrees  for  20  to  25  min- 
utes. Turn  out  on  serving  dishes.  Serve  warm.  Makes  7. 


TOPSY  TURVEY  BATTER 

Combine  Vi  cup  syrup,  Va  cup  syrup  drained  from  peaches,  Va  tea- 
spoon almond  extract,  and  Vi  teaspoon  vanilla.  Place  Va  cup  shorten- 
ing in  bowl  and  stir  until  softened.  Sift  1  cup  sifted  cake  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder  and  Va  teaspoon  salt  over  shortening.  Add  1 
unbeaten  egg  and  half  the  syrup  mixture.  Mix  and  combine  all  in- 
gredients, then  beat  1  minute;  add  remaining  liquid,  beat  one  minute. 

Mrs.   Norwood  Williams 

-80- 


AMBROSIA 

2  cups  orange  sections  1   cup  pineapple 

Vz  cup  sugar  1  cup  peaches 

T/2  cups  shredded  coconut 

Arrange  layer  of  orange  sections  in  serving  dish  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  coconut.  Repeat  until  all  ingredients  are  used.  Top  with 
coconut.  Chill. 

Mrs.  C.  F.  Sapp 

ICEBOX  DATE  LOAF 

2  lbs.  graham  crackers  1  lb.  nuts 

1  lb.  crystallized  cherries  1  lb.  marshmallows 

V2  cup  milk  1   lb.  raisins 

V2  cup  syrup  2  lbs.  dates— cut  up 

Grind  nuts  and  crackers  in  food  chopper.  AAix  all  in  bowl,  then  pour 
milk  and  syrup  over  it.  Mix.  Shape  into  loaf  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs 
then  chill. 

Mrs.  Archie  Hine 


PEACHES  'N'  CREAM  CRISP 

3V2  cups  sliced  peaches  (canned      Vz  cup  brown  sugar 

or  frozen,  drained)  Vz  cup  flour 

3/4  cup  quick  cooking  oats  1/3  cup  butter  or  margarine 

Arrange  drained,  sliced  peaches  in  a  greased  8"  round  baking  pan. 
Combine  oats,  sugar,  and  flour.  Cut  in  butter.  Spread  mixture  over 
peaches  in  pan.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  350  degrees  30  to  40 
minutes.  Top  with  additional  peach  slices,  if  desired.  Serve  while 
warm  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Ralph  Ingram 


PLUM  PUDDING 

V2  lb.  citron,  shredded  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

V2  lb.  suet  (chopped  fine)  Vz  teaspoon  cloves 

V2  lb.  raisins  Vz  teaspoon  nutmeg 

Vz  lb.  sugar  Vz  teaspoon  ginger 

V2  lb.  stale  bread  grated  rind  of  2  lemons 

Va  lb.  flour  6  eggs 

Vz  lb.  currents  Vz  cup  grape  juice 

Put  all  ingredients  in  bowl  and  mix  well.  Put  in  2  old-fashioned  tin 
coffee  cans  and  boil  six  hours.  Put  several  thicknesses  of  wax  paper 
under  lid  of  each  can  while  cooking.  May  be  kept  for  weeks.  Heat 
thoroughly  through  before  using.  Top  with  hard  sauce  before  serv- 
ing. From  Mrs.  N.  N.  Shore's  Cook  Book 

-81- 


SUET  PUDDING 

1  cup  chopped  suet  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  cups  flour 

Milk  added  to  make  right  to  roll  and  spread  fruit  on.  Roll  up  and 
tie.  Steam  3  hours.  Make  a  sauce  of  flour,  butter,  and  nutmeg  mixed 
and  thinned  with  either  water  or  milk.  Cook  until  thin  sauce.  Black 
surrants  make  a  good  pudding. 

Mrs.  John  McCuiston 


PERSIMMON  PUDDING  NO.  1 

1  quart  persimmons  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
IV2  cups  sugar  1   teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  1  cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

Mash  persimmons  through  colander.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix 
as  for  cake.  Bake  in  slow  oven.  Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce  or  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Knott 

2  qts.  of  persimmons  1  tablespoon  ginger 

2  qts.  milk  1   tablespoon  cinnamon 

2  qts.  of  flour  Va  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  Butter,  size  of  walnut 

Mash  persimmons,  add  milk.  Put  through  colander  to  remove  seeds 
and  skins.  Mix  flour,  sugar,  soda  and  spices.  Add  about  half  of  per- 
simmon mixture  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  melted  butter  and  rest 
of  persimmon  mixture  and  blend.  Pour  in  baking  pan  and  bake  350 
degrees  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Emma  Stewart 


PERSIMMON  PUDDING  NO.  3 
(My  Own  Recipe) 

1  quart  persimmons  after  run  1  teaspoon  soda 

through  colander  (real  thick)  2  teaspoons  cloves 

IV2  cups  sugar  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

2V2  cups  top  milk  5  3/4  cups  flour 

Vi  teaspoon  salt  Va  lb.  butter 

Pour  batter  one  inch  deep  in  pyrex  or  enamel  pan  and  bake  one 
hour  in  350  degree  oven. 

Mrs.  Fred  Reed 

-82- 


BANANA  PUDDING 

3/4  cup  sugar  2  eggs,  separated 

1/3  cup  flour  1   teaspoon  vanilla 

Va  teaspoon  salt  36  vanilla  wafers 

2  cups  milk  3    medium-sized    bananas,   sliced 

Blend  V2  cup  sugar,  the  flour  and  salt  thoroughly  together  in  top  of 
double  boiler.  Add  V2  cup  milk,  stirring  to  make  smooth.  Add  re- 
maining milk.  Cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  frequently,  until 
thickened.  Cover;  cook  15  minutes.  Beat  egg  yolks  slightly;  add  hot 
custard  slowly  to  yolks.  Return  to  double  boiler;  cook  2  minutes. 
Remove  from  heat;  add  vanilla. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  baking  dish  with  vanilla  wafers.  Ar- 
range bananas  in  layer  on  wafers  in  bottom.  Pour  custard  over  ba- 
nanas. Beat  egg  whites  stiff,  but  not  dry;  add  remaining  sugar  1 
tablespoon  at  a  time,  beating  constantly.  Spread  meringue  over 
custard.  Bake  in  moderately  slow  oven  (325  degrees)  20  minutes. 
Serve  warm  or  chilled.  Serves  6  to  8. 

Mrs.  Fred  Sowers 


ICE  BOX  PUDDING 

V2  lb.  Vanilla  wafers  1  tablespoon  sugar 

Va.  lb.  butter  1  cup  crushed  pineapple, 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  drained 

2  eggs  1  cup  nuts,  broken 
Vanilla  3  bananas,  mashed 
1  cup  whipping  cream  Juice  of  1   lemon 

Crush  vanilla  wafers  and  line  pan.  Cream  the  butter  and  powdered 
sugar.  Add  unbeaten  egg  and  flavoring  and  beat  thoroughly.  Pour 
or  spread  over  vanilla  wafers  in  pan.  Combine  crushed  (drained) 
pineapple,  mashed  bananas,  nuts  and  lemon"  juice.  Add  1  table- 
spoon sugar  to  smoothly  whipped  cream  and  fold  in  fruit  mixture. 
Pour  over  first  mixture,  cover  with  crushed  vanilla  wafers.  Put  in 
ice  box  and  let  set  for  about  eight  hours  before  serving.  Garnish 
each  serving  with  Maraschino  cherries.  Serves  about  8. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Hastings 


— ^T— 


Salads 


CHEESE  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

3/4  cup  sugar  Va  cup  cold  water 

Vi  cup  syrup  from  canned  pine-  1  cup  crushed  pineapple 

apple  1  cup  grated  American  cheese 

1  tbs.  unfavored  gelatine  (1  1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

env.) 

Put  sugar  and  pineapple  juice  in  sauce  pan  and  place  over  low  heat. 
Stir  until  dissolved.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  the  gel- 
atin which  has  been  softened  in  the  cold  water.  Cool  until  partially 
set.  Add  pineapple  and  cheese.  After  mixing  well,  fold  in  whipped 
cream.  Spoon  into  individual  molds  and  place  in  refrigerator  until 
read  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Raleigh  Ingram 


HOSTESS  SALAD 

1  No.  2  can  sliced  pineapple  2—3  oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese 

1—4  oz.  can  pimentoes  1  pkg.  lemon  or  cherry  Jello 

1—8  oz.  jar  maraschino  cherries  1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

3/4  cup  chopped  pecans  Vb  teaspoon  salt 
Vz  cup  chopped  celery 

Drain  juice  from  can  of  pineapple  and  heat.  Dissolve  Jello  in  hot  or 
boiling  pineapple  juice  and  let  cool.  Whip  in  cream  cheese.  Add 
chopped  pineapple,  pimento,  pecans,  celery  and  cherries.  Fold  in  the 
cream.  Pour  into  a  large  mold  or  individual  molds.  Chill  until  firm 
or  over  night.  Unmold  on  letuce  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Dallas  Chappell 


COLE  SLAW 

2  cups  finely  cut  cabbage  2  carrots,  grated 

V2  teaspoon  salt  1  small  tbs.  mayonnaise 

1   teaspoon  sugar  vinegar,   if  desired 
Vz  cup  grated  American  cheese 

Crush   with   hands.   Then   mix   other   ingredients   and   combine   with 
cabbage. 

Mrs.  B.  L.  Stewart 

-84- 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  NO.  1 

'/a  cup  cranberries  (ground)  1    package   cherry   Jello 

V2   cup   sugar  Juice  of  1  orange  and  the  ground 

V2  cup  diced  pineapple  peeling 

Vz  cup  chopped  nuts  1   cup  hot  water 

Dissolve  Jello  in  hot  water  and  let  stand.  Combine  remaining  in- 
gredients and  add  to  Jello  mixture.  Chill  until  firm  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Chappell 


CRANBERRY  SALAD  NO.  2 

1  lb.  cranberries  1   cup  chopped  nuts 

2  whole  oranges  2  small  cans  crushed  pineapple 
1   3/4  cups  sugar                                   2  packages  lemon  Jelio 

Vz  cup  chopped  celery  3  cups  hot  water 

Grind  cranberries  and  oranges  in  food  chopper.  Cover  with  sugar 
and  let  set  to  sweeten.  Dissolve  jello  in  hot  water.  Cool;  add  pine- 
apple, celery,  nuts  and  cranberries.  Pour  into  molds  and  let  chill  24 
hours.  Serve  on  lettuce.  Can  be  kept  several  days.  Makes  about  16 
servings. 

Mrs.  Raymond  Ebert 


CRANBERRY  AND  ORANGE  SALAD 

1   pt.  cranberries  1   package  lemon  gelatine 

1   orange— medium  size  1   cup  hot  water 

Wash  orange  and  cranberries  and  dry  well.  Cut  orange  into  quarters 
and  put  orange  and  cranberries  through  the  meat  chopper,  saving 
juice.  Let  stand  with  juice  for  1  hour.  Add  to  gelatine,  which  has 
been  dissolved  in  the  hot  water.  Pour  into  molds.  Chill  until  set. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise.  Makes  6  servings. 

Mrs.  Norwood  Williams 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

1  —3  oz.  pkg.  of  cream  cheese  1  cup  mixed  fruit  (canned  or 

3  tbs.  mayonnaise  fresh 

4  tbs.  sliced  mararchino  cherries       1  cup  heavy  cream,  whipped 

Vz  cup  pecans,  chopped  (optional) 

Mix  cheese  and  mayonnaise  together  until  smooth.  Combine  with 
fruits  and  fold  in  whipped  cream.  Add  nuts.  Pour  into  refrigerator 
tray  and  freeze  until  firm.  Cut  into  squares  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Fred  Brincefield 

-85- 


GOLDEN  GLOW  SALAD 

!   package  lemon  Jello  1  cup  canned  pineapple  (diced  or 

1  cup  boiling  water  crushed  drained 

1  cup  canned  pineapple  juice  1  cup  grated  raw  carrot 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  1/8  cup  pecan  meats,  finely  cut 

Vi  teaspoon  salt 

Dissolve  Jello  in  boiling  water.  Add  pineapple  juice,  vinegar  and 
salt.  Chill.  When  slightly  thickened,  add  pineapple,  carrot  and  nuts. 
Turn  into  individual  molds.  Chill  until  firm.  Serve  on  lettuce,  garnish- 
ed with  mayonnaise.  Serves  6. 

Mrs.  L.  Doyle  Chappell 


BOLIVIA  POTATO  SALAD 

2  cups  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  3  hard  cooked  eggs,  chopped 

in  Vz"  cubes  5  tbsp.  mayonnaise 

2  tbsp.  pimentoe,  chopped  1  tbsp.  vinegar 

Vi  tbsp.  onion  or  chives,  finely  Vi  tsp.  salt 

chopped  Dash  of  pepper 

Rub  bowl  in  which  salad  is  to  be  mixed  with  cut  side  of  clove  of 
garlic,  if  desired.  Add  potatoes,  pimentoes,  onion  and  eggs.  Com- 
bine 1  tablespoon  mayonnaise  with  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  and 
add  to  potato  mixture.  Arrange  in  crisp  lettuce  cups  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  chives. 

Mrs.  H.  S.  Vogler 


POTATO  SALAD 

6  large  potatoes,  diced  Add  Vi  teaspoonful  celery  salt 

3  sweet  pickles,  chopped  2  peppers  (1   red,  1  green) 

Add  Vi  teaspoonful  onion  salt  Add  paprika,  Vi  Teaspoonful 

Combine  above  ingredients  and  top  with  chopped  crisp  lettuce  and 
mayonnaise.  Mix  well. 

Mrs.  Brooklyn  Vogler 


SALMON  SALAD 

2  cups  salmon  1  cup  mayonnaise  or  cooked 

1  cup  diced  celery  dressing 

Va  cup  diced  pickles  salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

2  hard-boiled  eggs 

Remove  any  bones  and  skin  from  salmon,  drain  well  of  any  juice, 
mix  together,  add  mayonnaise  and  seasoning  and  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Russell  Hine 

-86- 


The  Present  .  .  . 

First  Printing  1972 


A«5t  $Ie*s  ^iwse  $ms. 


The  Friedland  Moravian  Community  was  founded  in  1770  by 
settlers  from  Broadbay,  Maine.  The  congregation  was  organized  in 
1780.  The  present  building  was  started  November  19,  1949,  and 
occupied  December  21,  1952.  The  structure  provides  a  sanctuary 
seating  650  people  and  a  Christian  Education  Building  with  26  class- 
rooms. The  new  facilities  were  debt-free  and  dedicated  December 
18,  1955.  A  new  wing,  providing  a  Fellowship  Hall  and  additional 
Sunday  School  Classrooms  was  added  in  1968. 


Appreciation 

We  wish  to  thank  all  who  were  willing  to  share  recipes  with  us. 

We  also  appreciate  all  the  work  and  cooperation  given  to  us 
in  making  up  this  book. 

We  hope  you  will  find  pleasure  in  using  this  book,  in  cooking 
and  enjoying  the  results  of  your  efforts. 

The  Cook  Book  Committee 
The  Women's  Fellowship 
Friedland  Moravian  Church 


-89- 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS  -  PRESENT  SECTION 

Beverage     91 

Breads,  Coffee  and  Sugar  Cake  94 

Candy,  Cookies  and  Ice  Cream  101 

Cakes  snd  Frostings 107 

Pies   117 

Meats    121 

Vegetables  and  Casseroles  129 

Salads    133 

Quick  and  easy  tips  137 


-90- 


Beverages 


CREAMY  HOT  CHOCOLATE  DRINK 

1  6-oz.  jar  powdered  Cremora  1    8-qt.  size  nonfat  dry  milk 

3/4  cup  powdered  sugar  (super      1   2-lb.  box  Nestle  instant  choco- 
fine)  late  mix 

Mrs.  Francis  Hege 


PARTY  BEVERAGE 

2  cups  cranberry  juice  cocktail  1   3-oz.  pkg.  cherry  gelatin   (dis- 
1    large  bottle  gingerale  solved   in    1    cup  of  water 

dash   salt  and  cooled) 

1   tbs.  lemon  juice 

Combine  all   ingredients  and   mix  in  blender  at  top  speed  for   30 
seconds  or  mixture  is  smooth. 

Mrs.  G.  Ricks  Sink 


PUNCH 

I  qt.  water  1  tall  can  pineapple  juice 

4  pkgs.  lemon-lime  Kool-Aid  1  tall  can  orange  juice 

5  cups  sugar 

Heat  but  not  to  boiling  stage.  Add  water  to  make  2Vi  gallons,  add  a 
quart  of  ginger  ale  to  each  gallon  when  served. 

Deanie  Dixon 


FRUIT  PUNCH 

2!/2  cups  water  3  cups  sugar 
Bring  to  boil  and  cool,  then  add: 

1  No.  2  can  pineapple  juice  5  cups  orange  juice 

2  cups  lemon  juice  or  lemonade  3  cups  ice  water 

1  qt.  of  gingerale  1    pt.  cranberry  juice 
Few  drops  of  red  color  if  desired 


Float  1  pint  of  strawberries  on  top. 

Mrs.  Jack  White 
-91- 


LIME  PUNCH 

2   pkgs.    lime   Kool-Aid  2  cups  sugar 

1    qt.   gingeraie  2  qts.   water  (warm) 

1   46-oz.  can  pineapple  juice 

Dissolve  sugar  in  warm  water.  Let  cool.  Mix  Kool-Aid,  pineapple 
juice  and  sugar  water.  Add  gingeraie  just  before  serving.  Yield:  50 
servings. 

Mrs.  Chris  Wood 


FRUIT  PUNCH 

1    large  can  frozen  orange   juice      2  or  3  bananas  mashed  very 
1    large  can  frozen  lemonade  fine 

Mix  thawed  orange  juice  and  lemonade  adding  amount  of  water 
as  stated  on  each  of  the  cans.  Just  before  serving  add  the  mashed 
bananas.  To  make  ice  cubes,  use  1  small  can  each  of  orange  juice 
and  lemonade,  adding  water  as  stated  on  cans.  Sugar  may  be  added 
to  taste  if  desired.  Yield:  35  punch  cup  servings. 

Mrs.    Raleigh   G.    Ingram 


GOLDEN  PUNCH 

2  (6-oz.)  cans  frozen  orange  juice      14  cup  maraschino  cherry  juice 
Viz  cup  lemon  juice  2  qts.  ginger  ale 

1  cup  canned  pineapple  juice 

Combine  orange  juice  concentrate,  lemon  juice,  pineapple  juice,  and 
cherry  jtHce  ,-mix  well.  Pour  over  ice  in  punch  bowl.  Add  cold  ginger 
ale.  Garnish  with  berries  and  pineapple  spears  if  desired.  Yield:  25 
punch  cup  servings. 

Mrs.  Raleigh  G.  Ingram 


RUSSIAN  TEA 

8  cups  water  1 V2  cups  pineapple  juice 

1    stick  cinnamon  1   cup  sugar 

8  to  10  whole  cloves  4  or  5  cups  water 

5  tea  bags  V<  cup  juice  red  apple  rings 

"I   small  can  frozen  orange  juice  (optional) 

1   small  can  frozen  lemonade 

Bring  8  cups  water  to  boil.  Remove  from  heat,  add  tea  and  spices. 
Remove  tea  after  5  minutes.  Remove  spices  30  minutes  later.  Add 
remaining   ingredients   and   heat. 

Rebecca  H.  Weavil 

-92- 


INSTANT  RUSSIAN  TEA 

1    large  jar  Tang  (1    lb.-2  oz.  or  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

1   cup  instant  tea  (Nestea)  V2  tsp.  ground  cloves 
1   pkg.  Twist  lemonade  mix 

Use  2  teaspoons  per  cup  (or  more  if  desired). 

Mrs.  Don  Smith 


ICED  TEA 

5  ice  teaspoons  loose  tea  leaves      10  whole  grain  saccharin 
1  cup  sugar 

Put  tea  leaves  in  tea  pot.  Put  sugar  and  saccharin  in  gallon  jar.  Fill 
tea  pot  with  boiling  water  and  steep  approximately  3  minutes,  pour 
through  strainer  into  jar.  Repeat  process,  steeping  longer  on  second 
time.  This  may  be  done  as  often  as  necessary  to  fill  gallon  jar.  Stir. 
Refrigerate  after  tea  cools,  preferrably  several  hours.  The  secret  of 
this  recipe  is  making  the  tea  the  day  before  you  plan  to  use  it. 

Mrs.  Harvey  L  Hines 


-  93 


Breads,  Coffee  and  Sugar  Cakes 

PARMESAN  CHEESE  SPREAD 

4  3-oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese  Va  cup  mayonnaise 

(softened)  Vi  tsp.  oregano  leaves,  crushed 

1/3  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese      Vb  tsp.  garlic  powder 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Chill.  Shape  into  ball.  Garnish  with  chop- 
ped nuts.  Serve  with  assorted  crackers.  Makes  1-3/4  cups. 

Peggy  Dodd 


PIMENTO  CHEESE 

1  lb.  cheese  3V-2  to  4  oz.  pimento 

Grate  the  cheese,  mash  the  pimento  with  a  fork. 
Dressing:  2  medium  eggs,  beat  in  2  tbs.  sugar,  2  tbs.  prepared  must- 
ard and  V2  cup  vinegar.  Cook  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  it  takes  only 
a  minute,  when  it  starts  to  boil  add  the  cheese  and  pimento  mixture 
—  mix  well.  Makes  about  one  quart. 

Mrs.    Francis   Hege 

YEAST  BISCUITS 

5  cups  flour  (self-rising)  3/4  cup  Crisco 

2  pkgs.  dry  yeast  dissolved  in         2  cups  buttermilk 

Va  cup  warm  water  Va  cup  sugar 

Make  dough  and  kneed  like  you  would  regular  biscuits.  Roll,  cut, 
place  on  baking  sheet.  Place  cut  biscuits  in  warm  place  for  Vi  hour. 
Bake  at  450  degrees. 

Ann  Speaks 

COLD  BREAD  CAKE 

Boil  2  eggs  and  soften  8  oz.  cream  cheese  per  loaf  of  bread  used. 

Order  unsliced  bread  from   bakery.  Trim   brown   edges   and  cut   5 
lengthwise  slices. 

Spread  bottom  layer  with  Va  of  the  cream  cheese.  Add  chopped  cook- 
ed ham. 

Spread  2nd  layer  with  cheese  and  add  chopped  lettuce. 

Spread  3rd  layer  with  cheese  and  drained,  chopped  tuna. 

Spread  4th  layer  with  cheese  and  chopped  tomatoes. 

Add  top  slice  of  bread  and  cover  top  and  sides  of  loaf  with  mayon- 
naise. 

Decorate  top  with  chopped  cooked  egg  yolks,  egg  whites  and  olives. 

Garnish  with  lettuce. 

Mrs.  Ray  F.  Hine 

-94- 


SUGAR  CAKE 

1   pkg.  yeast  4  tbs.  butter  or  margarine 

V2  cup  warm  water  1  /3  cup  Crisco 
1   cup  mashed  potatoes   'drain   1        1    tsp.   sail 

cup  water)  2  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  6  or  8  cups  plain  flour 
Topping: 

2  sticks  butter  or  margarine  1    pkg.   whipping  cream 
1   lb.  brown  sugar  (light)  Cinnamon 

PART  I  —  Cook  3  medium  potatoes,  drain  off  1  cup  water,  iet  cool. 
Dissolve  1  pkg.  yeast  in  V'2  cup  warm  water.  Mash  potatoes  and  add 
1  cup  sugar,  4  tbs.  butter  or  margarine  and  V2  cup  Crisco,  salt,  and 
one  cup  drained  potato  water  and  1  pkg.  yeast  dissolved  in  V2  cup 
warm  water.  Set  aside  for  one  hour  to  rise  in  warm  place. 
PART  II  —  Add  to  part  1,  2  beaten  eggs  and  6  or  8  cups  plain  flour 
or  enough  to  make  soft  dough.  Set  aside  in  warm  place  for  1  hour 
to  rise  and  double  in  bulk.  When  dough  is  light,  empty  into  two 
12x15  shallow  well-greased  pans.  Press  dough  firm  and  smooth 
over  pans.  Let  rise  in  pans  for  20  minutes. 

Topping: 

Melt  two  sticks  butter  or  margarine 
1  —  Spread  with  spoon  over  sugar  cake  V2  of  the  melted  butter 
2— Sprinkle  cinnamon  evenly 
3— Sprinkle  V2  lb.  of  the  light  brown  sugar 
4— Indent  dough  with  tips  of  fingers  making   little  wells  to  hold 

sugar  and  cream 
5— Dot  with  melted  butter 
6— Sprinkle  V2  lb.  of  brown  sugar 
7— Sprinkle  lightly  with  cinnamon 
8— Dot  with  whipping  cream 

9— Bake  25  minutes  in  300  degree  oven  (do  not  overbake). 

Mrs.  Sam  Reid 


COFFEE  CAKE 

Cream  together  until  fluffy:  Sift  together: 

1  cup  sugar  V/2  cups  flour 

V2  cup  margarine  V2  tsp.  cinnamon 

Beat  in:  V2  tsp.  ground  cloves 

1  egg  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Add  alternately  with  half  cup  cold  coffee.  Mix  in  V2  cup  raisins,  V2  cup 
peeled  chopped  apple, V2  cup  chopped  nuts.  Place  in  a  greased  loaf 
or  an  8"  x  8"  square  pan  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 
Note:  Loaf  may  be  frosted  with  powdered  sugar  mixed  with  orange 
juice  and  sprinkled  with  orange  rind  and  pecans. 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Kimball 

-95- 


SUGAR  CAKE 

Prepare:  1  cup  mashed  potatoes  (unseasoned) 

Soak:  2  pkgs.  yeast  in  1  cup  lukewarm  water  —  meanwhile 

Add  to  potatoes:  1  cup  melted  (or  very  soft)  butter 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  or  margarine 

1    tsp.  salt 

Stir  up  to  goopy  mess. 

Check  temperature  —  of  goop,  that  is  —  you  must  keep  cool  at  all 
costs!  Should  be  lukewarmish  so  as  not  to  kill  yeast  which  you  now 
add. 

Set  aside  and  let  get  spongy  in  warmish  place  (oven  is  good  —  Don't 
turn  it  on,  but  put  in  with  sponge  mixture  —  a  cooker  of  hot  water 
on  rack  below  it.) 

When  bubbly  after  about  an  hour  add  two  beaten  eggs. 

Add  7  cups  of  flour  (5  may  be  enough)  Va  at  the  time  —  to  make  a 
soft  dough  which  can  be  handled  easily  —  knead  ;t  while  even  if  it 
is  a  sticky  mess  —  wash  hands  and  flour  board  generously  if  needed, 
and  finish  kneading. 

Let  rise  'til  double  in  bulk.  An  hour,  about,  if  dough  is  medium  luke- 
warm at  beginning  —  longer  if  dough  was  coldish. 

Make  out  on  cookie  sheets  and/or  square  pans  and/or  round  ones. 
Should  be  about  Va  inch  thick  —  not  more  than. 

Le1  rise  'til  light. 

Mix  2  cups  light  brown  sugar  with  5  tsp.  cinnamon  and  V2  cup  but- 
ter —  cut  with  knives  or  pastry  blender. 

When  light,  punch  sides  in  dough  and  put  little  butter  in  each.  Sprin- 
kle with  sugar  stuff  and  bake  at  375  degrees  —  20  minutes. 

Betty  Tesch  Barnes 


DULY  BREAD 

1   pkg.  yeast  1  tbs.  fat 

Va  cup  warm  water  2  tbs.  dill  seed 

1  cup  cottage  cheese  1   tsp.  salt 

2  tbs.  sugar  Va  tsp.  soda 

1   tbs.  grated  onion  1    unbeaten  egg 

Flour  to  make  stiff  dough 

Soften  yeast  in  water;  combine  with  other  ingredients.  Add  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  rise  to  double  bulk  in  warm  place.  Stir  down. 
Turn  into  greased  pan.  Let  rise  again.  Bake  at  350  degrees. 

Mrs.  Harvey  Hedgecock 

-96- 


HONEY  BREAD 

MIX:  1    rounded  +sp.  baking  soda 

4V2  cups  flour  ADD: 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  milk 

2  tsp.  allspice  1  cup  honey 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Bake  in  greased  and  flcured  pans  in  low  oven  about  1   hour.  Makes 

2  small  loaves. 

Mrs.  Roger  Kimball 


ST.  TIMOTHY'S  COFFEE  CAKE 

1  cup  (2  sticks)  butter  14  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  sugar  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

V2  tsp.  vanilla  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  eggs  V2  cup  golden  raisins 

2  cups  unsifted  flour  1  cup  sour  cream 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  Cinnamon   sugar 

Cream  butter  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  sugar  gradually  and  con- 
tinue to  cream.  Blend  in  vanilla.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating 
well  after  each. 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  cinnamon.  Add  nuts 
and  raisins  and  coat  well. 

Add  dry  ingredients  to  creamed  mixture  alternately  with  sour  cream. 
Blend  well.  Turn  into  greased  and  floured  bundt  pan.  Sprinkle  with 
cinnamon  sugar. 

Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  60  minutes  or  until  the  cake  tests  done. 
Leave-in  pan  for  at  least  one  hour  before  turning  out.  Turn  out  and 
sprinkle  with  more  cinnamon  sugar. 

Mrs.  Mary  Lee  Boy  an 


HEALTHY  CORNBREAD 

Mix  together:  !4  cup  brown  sugar  (or  Va  cup 

1   cup  yellow  corn  meai  molasses) 

1  cup  whole  wheat  flour  1  cup  water 

4  tsps.  baking  powder  V*  cup  shortening  (or  Wesson 

!4  tsp.  cream  of  tartare  oil) 

1/3  cup  powdered  milk  1  egg 

1    tsp.  salt 

Pour  into  greased  pan  9"  x  9"  x  2".  Bake  at  425  degrees  for  25 
minutes. 


Colene  Hine 


-97- 


PRUNE  NUT  BREAD 

1/3  cup  butter  or  margarine  1   tsp.  baking  powder 

2/3  cup  sugar  Vz  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  eggs  Vi  tsp.  salt 

Vi  cup  prune  juice  1  cup  chopped  pitted  prunes 

2  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind  Vi  cup  chopped  walnuts 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour 

Cream  together  butter  or  margarine  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a 
time,  beating  between  each.  Add  prune  juice  and  lemon  rind.  Sift  to- 
gether flour,  baking  soda,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Add  to  cream 
mixture.  Mix  well.  Stir  in  prunes  and  nut  meats.  Pour  into  greased 
loaf  pan.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  350  degrees  60-70  minutes.  Slice 
when  cold.  Prunes  were  soaked  in  cold  water  overnight.  The  soaking 
water  was  the  prune  juice  used  in  this  recipe.  It  stays  fresh  for  days. 
You  can  slice  it  and  spread  with  cream  cheese.  Serve  with  coffee 
or  tea. 

Mrs.  Carl  Ingram 


JALAPENO  CORNBREAD 

2  cups  self-rising  meal  8   small   chopped   Jalapeno   pep- 
1   cup  self-rising  flour  pers 

3  eggs,  beaten  2V2  cups  grated  sharp  cheese 
2V2  cups  milk  1   grated  onion 

V2  cup  salad  oil 

Bake  in  11"  x  14"  greased  pan  in  375  degree  oven  for  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Joel  Franks 


PUMPKIN  BREAD 

3  cups  sugar  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

4  eggs  2  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  oil  3Vi  cups  flour 

2  cups  pumpkin  (fresh  or  canned)      2/3  cup  water 
IV2  tsp.  nutmeg 

Grease  and  flour  3  loaf  pans  or  one  tube  pan  and  one  loaf  pan.  Pre- 
heat oven  to  350  degrees.  With  a  spoon,  stir  together  eggs  and 
sugar.  Add  oil  and  stir  well.  Stir  in  pumpkin,  then  dry  ingredients 
alternately  with  water.  Mix  well  and  pour  into  prepared  pans.  Bake 
about  1  hour  or  until  toothpick  inserted  in  center  comes  out  clean. 
(This  freezes  well,  too.) 

Mrs.  C.  Henry  Reed  III 
-98- 


NO  KNEADING  BISCUITS  (OR  ROLLS) 

1   cup  milk  2  cakes  yeast 

Vz  cup  shortening  1    tsp.  salt 

Vi  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

V2  cup  water  4Vz  cups  flour 

Put  shortening  in  milk  and  warm  on  the  stove.  Then  cool.  Beat  all 
ingredients  together  in  a  large  bowl  and  let  rise.  Form  into  bis- 
cuits or  rolls.  Bake  20  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Mildred  Martin  (Mrs.  Odell) 


NIGHT  BEFORE  COFFEE  CAKE 

2/3  cup  margarine  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  white  sugar  1   tsp  .soda 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar  2  tsp.  powdered  milk 

2  beaten  eggs  Vi  tsp.  cinnamon 
2  cups  sifted  flour  1  cup  buttermilk 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingredients, 
add  to  creamed  mixture,  also  buttermilk.  Pour  into  floured  13"  x  9" 
pan.  Mix  together  and  spread  on  top;  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  chopped  nuts,  one-half  tsp.  cinnamon,  one-half  tsp.  nut- 
meg. Refrigerate  until  ready  to  use.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30-40 
minutes. 

Dawn  Thompson  (Mrs.  James.  Jr.) 


ENRICHED  BREAD 

2  cakes  yeast  1  tablespoon  salt 

14  cup  lukewarm  water  1    tablespoon   melted   shortening 

2  cups  milk  6  cups  sifted  plain  flour 

4  tablespoons  sugar 

Soften  yeast  in  water.  Scald  milk.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  shortening. 
Cool  to  lukewarm.  Add  2  cups  flour.  Mix  well.  Add  softened  yeasl". 
Add  enough  more  flour  to  form  a  moderately  stiff  dough.  Turn  out 
on  floured  board  and  knead  until  smooth  and  satiny.  Shape  in  smooth 
ball.  Place  in  greased  bowl.  Cover  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  until 
double  (about  1  Vi  hours).  Punch  down,  rest  for  30  minutes.  Divide 
dough  into  2  equal  portions  and  shape  into  leaves  and  put  into 
greased  bread  pans.  Let  rise  until  double  (about  1  hour).  Bake  in 
moderately  hot  oven  400  degrees  30  to  40  minutes.  This  recipe 
will  make  3  to  4  dozen  rolls  depending  on  size. 

Mrs.  James  Wimmer 

-99- 


REFRIGERATOR  ROILS 

AAix  together  2  cups  lukewarm  water,  Vi  cup  sugar,  IV2  teaspoons 
salt.  Crumble  into  mixture  2  cakes  compressed  yeast.  Stir  until  dis- 
solved and  add  1  egg,  Va  cup  melted  shortening.  Mix  in  6V2  to  7 
cups  sifted  flour.  Put  into  a  greased  bowl  and  cover  with  oiled  wax 
paper  and  a  damp  cloth.  Place  in  refrigerator,  about  2  hours.  Before 
baking,  shape  dough  into  rolls.  Cover  with  cloth  and  let  rise  until 
light  or  double  in  size.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  12-15  minutes.  Will 
keep  in  refrigerator  3-5  days. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Reid 


ORANGE  NUT  BREAD 

3  cups  flour  1   egg  slightly  beaten 

4  tsp.  baking  powder  V%  cup  orange  rind 
Va  tsp  .salt  1  cup  orange  juice 

1  cup  sugar  1/3  cup  melted  shortening 

V2  cup  chopped  pecans 

Sift  flour,  measure,  add  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar.  Sift  together. 
Add  pecans.  Mix  orange  juice,  rind,  melted  shortening  and  egg;  beat. 
Pour  into  dry  ingredients  and  mix  just  to  moisten.  Do  not  heat.  Turn 
into  greased  loaf  pan  9V2x5V2x3.  Bake  in  oven  at  350  degrees  about 
one  hour  or  untH  done.  Remove  from  pan.  Cool.  Slices  better  the 
second  day.  Delicious  served  with  cream  cheese. 

Calanthe  Hine  (Mrs.  Wm.) 


-100- 


Candy,  Cookies  and  Ice  Cream 


HOME-MADE  ICE  CREAM 

5  eggs  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

2  cups  sugar  (more  if  needed)  !4  teaspoon  salt 

2  large  cans  evaporated  milk  4  cups  mashed  fruit 

3  cups  whole  milk 

Vanilla  —  2  to  3  tablespoons 

Banana  —  about  five  large,  brown-speckled  ones 

Pineapple  —  1  large  can  —  crushed 

Peach  —  4  cans  real  ripe  —  mashed 

Cherry  —  medium  jar  of  Maraschino  —  chopped 

Have  mixture  a  little  too  sweet  so  it  will  be  sweet  enough  when 
frozen.  Have  can  2/3  full. 

Mrs.  Roy  Pulliam 


CANDIED  GRAPEFRUIT  PEEL 

Cut  5  grapefruit  peel  into  Va  inch  strips.  Cover  with  cold  water.  Heat 
to  boiling.  Boil  10  minutes,  drain,  repeat  3  times,  and  drain. 
Prepare  a  heavy  syrup  using  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  cup  water,  use 
food  coloring  the  color  of  your  choice.  Then  add  grapefruit  peel. 
Cook  until  syrup  is  cooked  dry  and  then  roll  peel  in  granulated 
sugar  and  place  in  waxed  paper,  let  dry  a  day  or  more. 

Mrs.  Clifton  Hastings 


OLD  FASHIONED  GINGERSNAPS 

Vi  cup  soft  shortening  2  tbs.  baking  soda 

3/4  cup  firmly  packed  brown  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

sugar  I/2  tsp.  cloves 

1  egg  1    tsp.  ginger 

1/3  cup  molasses  Granulated   sugar 

2Va  cups  sifted  flour 

Combine  shortening,  brown  sugar,  egg  and  molasses  in  large  bowl. 
Beat  mixture  until  light.  Sift  flour,  soda,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ging- 
er, together;  blend  into  molasses  mixture  gradually.  Cover,  chill  one 
hour.  Heat  oven  to  375  degrees.  Shape  dough  into  balls  about  the 
size  of  a  walnut.  Dip  tops  in  granulated  sugar  and  place  sugar  side 
up  about  3  inches  apart  on  greased  baking  sheet.  Sprinkle  each 
cookie  with  2  drops  of  water.  Remove  cookies  immediately  from 
sheet  with  spatula,  cool  on  wire  racks. 

Mrs.  Tony  E.  Mansfield 
-101- 


RICE  KRISPIE  BARS 


1   cup  sugar 

1  cup  peanut  butter 


1  cup  light  corn  syrup 
6  cups  Rice  Krispies 


Combine  sugar  and  syrup  in  3  qt.  saucepan.  Cook  over  moderate 
heat,  stirring  frequently  until  mixture  begins  to  bubble.  Remove 
from  heat,  stir  in  peanut  butter;  mix  well.  Add  Rice  Krispies,  stir 
until  well  blended.  Press  mixture  into  buttered  13  x  9  inch  pan. 
Yields  48  bars,  2  x  1   inch. 

Vicki  Jane  Kimball 


PARTY  COOKIES 


1  cup  shortening 

}  cup  brown  sugar 

1 2  cup  granulated  sugar 

2  tsp.  vanilla 
2  eggs 


7Va  cups  sifted  all  purpose  flour 
1   tsp.  soda 
1  tsp.  salt 

IV2  cups  M  &  M's  (3/4  pound) 
plain  chocolate  candies 


Blend  shortening  and  sugars,  beat  in  vanilla  and  eggs.  Sift  remain- 
ing dry  ingredients  together,  add  to  the  sugar  and  egg  mixture.  Mix 
we!!,  stir  in  V2  cup  M  &  M's  plain  chocolate  candies.  Reserve  remain- 
ing candies  for  decoration.  Drop  from  teaspoon  onto  ungreased 
cookie  sheet.  Decorate  tops  of  cookies  with  remaining  M  &  M's 
candies  as  desired.  Bake  at  375  degrees  for  10  to  12  minutes  until 
golden  brown.  After  baking  some  of  the  candies  may  be  slightly 
cracked,  this  adds  texture  and  interest  to  your  cookies.  Makes  about 
6  dozen,  IVi"  cookies. 

Donna  Kimball 


FUDGE 


32  Marshmallows 

2V2  cups  sugar 

14  lb.  margarine 

9  oz.  pkg.  chocolate  chips 


V4  cup  water 

1   6-oz.  can  evaporated  milk 

Va  tsp.  salt 


Put  marshmallows  and  water  in  top  of  double  boiler  and  heat  until 
marshmallows  are  dissolved,  stirring  to  keep  from  sticking.  Put 
sugar,  margarine,  milk  and  salt  in  a  frying  pan,  mix  thoroughly, 
bring  to  rolling  boil  and  continue  boiling  for  8  minutes  stirring  con- 
stantly. Remove  from  heat,  add  to  marshmallow  mixture,  then  add 
chocolate  chips  and  if  desired  add  one  cup  of  nuts.  Pour  into  8x12 
pan. 

Doretha  K.  Craven 

-102- 


FROSTED  MOLASSES  CREAMS  (Bar  Cookies) 

Vi  cup  shortening  IV2  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  cup  sugar  3/4  tsp.  salt 

1   egg,  beaten  Va  tsp.  soda 

V2  cup  molasses  1    tsp.  cinnamon 

1/3  cup  strong  hot  coffee  V2  tsp.  cloves 

IV2  cups  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  shortening  well,  beat  in  egg,  molasses  and  coffee. 
Sift  together  remaining  ingredients,  add  to  creamed  mixture,  blend 
well.  Bake  in  greased  lined  9x13  pan  at  350  degrees  25  minutes. 
Cool  in  pan.  Frost  as  follows:  Va  cup  butter,  2  cups  confectioners 
sugar,  2  tbs.  coffee,  dash  of  salt.  Blend  all  ingredients  well  until 
smooth  enough  to  spread  on  top  of  cake. 

Mrs.  Thelma   Reid 


SUGAR  COOKIES 

2  cups  flour  (approximately)  1  cup  sugar 

IV2  tsp.  baking  powder  1   egg 

Va  tsp.   salt  1    tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  butter  or  margarine  1   tbs.  milk 

Sift  IV2  cups  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Cream  butter  with 
sugar,  add  egg,  vanilla  and  milk,  and  mix.  Add  flour  mixture  and 
enough  of  the  remaining  flour  to  make  a  dough  just  thick  enough 
to  roll,  chill.  Place  on  lightly  floured  board,  roll  out  to  Vs  inch  in 
thickness.  Cut  with  fancy  cookie  cutters.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  375  degrees  about  8  to  10  minutes.  Makes  about  five  dozen 
cookies.  If  desired,  sprinkle  the  cookies  with  sugar  before  baking. 

Mrs.  Lagette  Woosley 


PUMPKIN  COOKIES 

Sift  together  and  set  aside 

3!/2  cups  flour  Vi  tsp.  soda 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  V2  ea.  tsp.  nutmeg  and  cinnamon 

V2  tsp.  salt  Va  tsp.  ginger 

Mix  1  cup  sugar,  V2  cup  brown  sugar  and  V2  cup  Crisco.  Cream  well. 
Blend  in  2  eggs,  IV2  cups  pumpkin  and  1  tsp.  lemon  flavoring.  Add 
dry  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Stir  in  1  cup  raisins  and  1  cup  nuts. 
Drop  by  spoonful  on  greased  cookie  sheet  and  bake  at  375  degrees, 
1  2  to  15  minutes.  Frost  while  warm 

with  —  Blend  2  tsp.  soft  butter,  2  cups  lOx  sugar,  add  2  tsp.  lemon 
juice  or  2  tsp.  lemon  flavoring  and  1  or  2  tsp.  milk.  Will  be  fairly 
thin  —  spread  on  cookies. 

Norma  Sue  Chambers 

-103- 


LEMON  SQUARES 

1  cup  flour  Va  cup  powdered  sugar 
Vz  cup  butter 

Sift  flour  and  sugar  into  bowl.  Blend  in  butter  with  fingertips  until 
well  mixed.  Pat  evenly  into  botom  of  8x8  pan.  Bake  for  20  min. 
at  350  degrees.  Meanwhile  beat  together: 

2  eggs  2Vz  tbs.  fresh   lemon  juice 
1  cup  granulated  sugar                        dash  of  salt 

Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 

Pour  over  baked  crust  and  return  to  oven  20  to  25  minutes  at  same 
temperature.  Cool  on  rack,  cut  in  squares,  sprinkle  with  sifted  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Marcia  Thomason 


PECAN  BARS 

2  sticks  margarine  2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  dash  of  salt 

1  egg,  separated  chopped  nuts 

2  cups  plain  flour 

Cream  sugar,  butter,  egg  yolk,  and  vanilla.  Add  flour.  Spread  thin 
on  2  ungreased  cookie  sheets.  Beat  egg  white  until  slightly  frothy. 
Spread  on  top  of  cookie  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts.  Bake 
30  to  45  minutes  or  until  golden  brown  at  250  degrees.  Cut  in  squares 
while  still  warm. 

Donice  Cude 


POM-POM  CANDY 

1  box  graham  crackers  (crushed) 
1  box  confectioners  sugar 

1  pound  jar  crunchy  peanut  butter 

2  sticks  margarine 

Melt  margarine.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly  by  hand. 
Press  into  small  balls  and  place  on  wax  paper. 

Chocolate  Covering 

1   1  2-oz.  package  chocolate  semi-sweet  morsels 
Vz  stick  household  wax 

Melt  wax,  add  chocolate.  Stir  constantly  until  melted.  Dip  each  ball 
into  chocolate  mixture  and  place  on  wax  paper  to  cool.  Makes  about 
3  dozen  balls.  Place  in  covered  container  and  store  in  refrigerator. 

Mrs.  Eli  Hine 

—  104— 


RICH  CHIPPY  SQUARES 

1  stick  butter  1  cup  coconut 

1  cup  graham  cracker  crumbs  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  6-oz.  pkg.  chocolate  morsels  1    15-oz.  can  Eagle  Brand  milk 

1  6-oz.  pkg.  butterscotch  morsels 

Melt  butter  in  9"xl3"  baking  pan  in  325  degree  oven.  Add  crumbs 
to  butter  and  mix  well.  Pat  out  the  mixture  on  the  bottom  of  the  pan. 
Sprinkle  the  chocolate  and  butter  scotch  morsels  evenly  over  the 
buttered  crumbs,  then  sprinkle  the  coconut  and  the  nuts  in  the 
same  manner.  Carefully  spoon  the  milk  evenly  over  the  top.  Bake 
for  25  minutes  (or  until  light  golden  brown)  at  325  degrees.  Will 
make  48  IV2"  squares. 

from  the  Cook  Book  of  Mrs.  Irene  B.  Sapp 


CHOCOLATE-CHIP  SAN  DABS 

3/4  cup  butter  or  margarine  2  tsp.  water 

4V2  tbs.  confectioners  sugar  IV2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  flour  V/a  cups  chocolate  chips 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  flour,  water,  vanilla  and  chocolate 
chips.  Pinch  pieces  of  dough  and  shape  in  one  inch  balls.  Bake  in 
oven  325  degrees  for  35  to  40  minutes.  Remove  from  oven,  cool 
for  5  minutes  then  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Willard  Snow 


MISSISSIPPI  MUD 

2  sticks  margarine  (Sift  together:) 

2  cups  sugar  IV2  cups^  flour 

4  eggs  V2  cup  cocoa 

Dash  salt  1    tsp.   baking    powder 

IY2  cups  nuts,  chopped  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  all  ingredients  well,  pour  into  well  greased  9x13  pan.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  30  minutes  or  until  done. 

1    10-oz.   package  small    marshmallows,   mash   these   on   top   of   hot 
cake,  top  with  icing: 

1    box  powdered  sugar  1/3  cup  cocoa 

V2  stick   margarine  Vi  cup  milk 

Vi  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  together,  spread  on  top  of  marshmallows  and  cake. 

Ann  H.  Snipes 

-105- 


CLUSTERS 

• 

12  oz.  Semi  Sweet  chocolate  or      6  oz.  can  Planters  cocktail 

butterscotch   morsels  peanuts 

3  oz.  can  Chow  Mein  noodles 

Melt  chips  in  double  boiler,   add   noodles  and   peanuts,  stir.   Drop 
by  spoonfuls  on  wax  paper,  cool. 

Melody  Thomason 


CHINESE  NUT  BALLS 

Vi  lb.  butter  or  margarine  2  cups  plain  flour 

5  tbs.  sugar  2  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  pecans 

Mix  ingredients  and  roll  into  balls,  bake  at  300  degrees  for  35  min- 
utes or  until  lightly  browned.  Roll  in  confectioners  sugar  as  soon  as 
removed  from  oven.  Roll  in  sugar  to  coat. 

Mrs.  Larry  Simmons 


-106- 


Cakes  and  Frostings 

VANILLA  WAFER  CAKE 

2  sticks  margarine  1    cup  pecans  (chopped) 

2  cups  sugar  14  oz.  of  flaked  coconut 

6  eggs  Vi  cup  milk 
1   1  2-oz.  pkg.  vanilla  wafers 

Cream  sugar  and  margarine,  add  eggs  one  at  the  time,  beat  well 
after  each  addition.  Add  crumbs  and  milk  alternately,  stir  in  coco- 
nut and  pecans.  Pour  into  greased  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  325  de- 
grees for  1  hour  and  45  minutes  to  2  hours  until  tests  done. 

Mrs.  Harold  A.  Thacker,  Sr. 


ITALIAN  CREME  CAKE 

(Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature) 

1  stick  butter  2   cups  flour 

Vi  cup  Crisco  1   cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  sugar  2  tsp.  vanilla 

5  egg  yolks  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

1   tsp.  soda  1   cup  coconut 

5  egg  whites,  beaten 

Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  egg  yolks.  Sift  flour  and  soda 
together  3  times,  add  to  creamed  mixture,  alternately  with  butter- 
milk, beginning  and  ending  with  flour  mixture.  Stir  in  nuts  and 
coconut.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Bake  in  3  nine-inch  cake  pans  at  350  de- 
grees for  20  to  25  minutes. 

Icing 

1  8-oz.  cream  cheese  (room  1  box  powdered  sugar 

temperature)  1   tsp.  vanilla 

Vi  cup  Crisco 
(If  too  thick  add  small  amount  of  milk) 

Mrs.  Hubert  Talley 

DELIGHTFUL  CHOCOLATE  FROSTING 

2  3-oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese  1  box  confectioner's  sugar 
Vi  cup  Crisco  V2  pkg.  German  chocolate 
V2  tsp.  vanilla                                         Va  cup  warm  water 

Cream  both  pkgs.  cream  cheese  and  Crisco  with  vanilla.  Sift  con- 
fectioner's sugar.  Melt  chocolate  in  the  warm  water.  Add  sugar  and 
chocolate  mixture  alternately  to  the  cream  cheese  mixture.  Beat  well. 
Will  frost  one  9-inch  cake. 

Mrs.  Deborah  Wood 

-107- 


BLACK  WALNUT-PRUNE  CAKE 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  vegetable  oil  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  cup  buttermilk  V2  tsp.  allspice 

2  cups  flour  IV2  cups  sugar 

1  tsp.  soda  1   large  jar  junior  prunes 

1   tsp.  cinnamon  3/4  cup  chopped  black  walnuts 

Blend  sugar  and  oil.  Beat  in  eggs  well  and  add  dry  ingredients  al- 
ternately with  milk  and  vanilla.  Fold  in  nuts  and  pr,une  juice.  Bake  in 
prepared  loaf  or  mold  cake  pan  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes.  Cake 
is  rich  and  moist  —  without  frosting. 

Frosting: 

1   cup  sugar  1  tbs.  white  corn  syrup 

I/2  cup  buttermilk  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  tsp.  soda  Va,  cup  butter 

Boil  ingredients  until  it  forms  soft  ball  stage  without  stirring  on  low 

heat.  Cool  slightly,  beat  well  and  pour  over  hot  cake. 

Mrs.  Walter  L.  Brothers,  Sr. 


SCOTCH  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

2  cups  all-purpose  flour  (plain)  4  heaping  tsps.  cocoa 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1   cup  water 

1  stick  margarine  V2  cup  buttermilk 
V2  cup  Wesson  oil  1  tsp.  soda 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  flour  and  sugar  in  mixing  bowl,  mix  well.  In  saucepan  put 
margarine,  shortening,  cocoa  and  water  and  bring  to  a  rapid  boil, 
then  pour  over  flour  and  sugar  mixing  gradually.  Add  soda  to  but- 
termilk and  add  with  other  ingredients.  Mix  and  turn  into  greased, 
floured  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  35  minutes.  Make  icing  5 
minutes  before  cake  is  done  and  pour  hot  icing  over  hot  cake.  Use 
10x12  pan  or  larger. 

king 

1    stick  margarine  or  butter  1   tsp.  vanilla 

4  tbs.  cocoa  1  cup  chopped  pecans 

6  tbs.  milk  1   cup  flake  coconut 
1    box   powdered   sugar 

In  saucepan  combine  margarine,  cocoa  and  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil 
stirring  constantly  to  prevent  sticking.  Remove  from  heat  and  add 
other  ingredients.  Spread  on  hot  cake.  Icing  can  be  used  without 
coconut  and  nuts. 

Mrs.  William  Yokley 

-108- 


SOUR  CREAM  COFFEE  CAKE 

2  sticks  butter  or  oleo  Vi  tsp.  lemon  extract 
IV2  cups  sugar  V2  tsp.  almond  extract 

3  eggs  1    tsp.  cinnamon 
1  carton  sour  cream  (1  cup)  1   tsp.  nutmeg 

1  tsp.  soda  V2  cup  chopped   pecans 

1   tsp.  baking  powder  1  cup  brown  sugar 

V2  tsp.  salt  2V2   cups   flour 

Cream  butter,  sugar,  add  eggs.  Add  dry  ingredients  alternately  with 
sour  cream.  Grease  and  flour  9x12  cake  pan.  Combine  brown  sugar, 
nuts  and  spices.  Put  one-half  batter  in  pan.  Sprinkle  half  brown 
sugar  mixture  over  top.  Add  rest  of  batter  and  top  with  sugar  mix- 
ture. Bake  at  350  degrees  for  25  minutes  or  until  done. 

Mrs.  Robert  Tilley 


LOAF  CAKE 

1  box  powdered  sugar  2  tbs.  orange  or  lemon  juice 

3  sticks  butter  1   tsp.  vanilla 

6  eggs  3  cups  and  2  tbs.  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  the  time,  beat  at  medium 
speed  then  add  flour  and  juice  and  vanilla,  beat  2  minutes  longer. 
Bake  1  hour  and  20  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Icing 

V-  cup  orange  or  lemon  juice  1  cup  white  sugar 

Mix  and  pour  on  cake  when  removed  from  oven. 

Mrs.  Paul  Hine 


CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE 

V2  lb.  butter  V2  tsp  .salt 

V2  cup  Crisco  4  tbs.  cocoa  (heaping) 

3  cups  sugar  3  cup  sifted  flour 

5  eggs  1  cup  milk 

I/2  tsp.  baking  powder  1   tbs.  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  one  egg  at  a  time.  Mix  baking 
powder,  salt,  and  cocoa  with  sifted  flour  and  add  to  mixture,  al- 
ternating with  milk.  Add  vanilla.  Bake  for  one  hour  and  45  minutes 
at  325  degrees. 

To  make  a  regular  pound  cake,  substitute  flour  for  the  cocoa  and 
lemon  extract  for  the  vanilla. 

Mrs.  James  S.  Thore 

-109- 


YUMMY  SPICE  CAKE 


Vi  lb.  butter  or  margarine 
Vi  cup  Criscp..  ,   ..  .-.;' 

3  cups  sugar        . , 
5  eggs  .  ,. 

2Vi  cups  shifted  flour 
Vi  tsp.  allspice,.. . 
2  tsp.  cinnamon 


Va  tsp.  nutmeg 

Vi  tsp.  mace 

Vi  tsp.  cloves 

Vi  tsp.  salt :  ■   ...;.. 

Vi  tsp.  baking  powder: 

Vi  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  and  2  tbs.  milk 


L  Cream  butter,  shortening  and  sugar.  2.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
mixing  well.  3.  Sift  flour,  spices,  salt  and  baking  powder  together. 
4.  Add  to. creamed  mixture  and  alternate  with  milk.  5.  Add  vanilla,. 
6.  ,Turn  into  a  large  greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  7.  Bake  at  325 
degrees  for  1   hour  and  15  minutes. 


Glaze 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
V2  stick  butter 


Va  cup  evaporated  milk 


Boil  for  3  minutes,  pour  over  cake  while  hot. 

Connie  Boyan  Walter 

APPLE  CAKE 


2  cups  sugar 
VA  cups  Mazola  oil 

3  eggs 
3  cups  flour 
3  cups  apples,  chopped 

Combine  all   ingredients  together.  Mixing  well.    Bake   in   layers  or 
mold  pan  at  350  degrees  until  done. 


Vi  cup  black  walnuts,  chopped 

Vi  cup  pecans,  chopped 

1  tsp.  soda 

1   tsp.  vanilla  or  any  kind 


Icing 


VA  cups  brown  sugar 
Vi  stick  margarine  or  oleo 


1/3  cup  milk 
1  tsp.  flavoring 


Let  boil  until  it  comes  to  a  full  boil.  Cool  a  little  to  ice. 

Mrs.  Kate  Trotter 

EASY  MIX  TWO  LAYER  CAKE 

Have  all  ingredients  at  room  temperature.  Sift  together: 

1-3/4  cups  sifted  flour  1   tsp.  salt 

2V2  tsp.  baking  powder  V/a  cups  sugar 

Add  Vi  cup  easy  mix  shortening  and  Vi  cup  milk.  Beat  for  2  minutes, 
add  Va  cup  milk  and  2  unbeaten  eggs,  and  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Beat  2  min- 
utes longer.  Pour  into  one  oblong  and/or  two  round  floured  pans. 
Bake  30  to  35  minutes  at  350  degrees.  Good  with  fruit  or  frosting. 

Mrs.  Deanie  Dixon 


-110- 


PERFECT  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

1  cup  unsifted  unsweetened  Vi  tsp.  baking  powder 

cocoa  (scant)  1    cup  butter  or  regular  marga- 

2  cups  boiling  water  rine  softened 
2-3/4  cups  sifted  all  purpose             2V2  cups  granulated  sugar 

flour  4  eggs 

2  tsp.  baking  soda  IV2  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

V2  tsp.  salt 

In  medium  bowl,  combine  cocoa  with  boiling  water,  mixing  with  wire 
whisk  until  smooth.  Cool  completely.  Sift  flour  with  soda,  salt  and 
baking  powder.  Preheat  oven  to  350  degrees.  Grease  well  and 
lightly  flour  three  9-inch  by  1  V2  inch  pans.  In  large  bowl  of  electric 
mixer,  at  high  speed,  beat  butter,  sugar,  eggs,  and  vanilla,  scraping 
bowl  occasionally,  until  light  —  about  5  minutes.  At  low  speed,  beat 
in  flour  mixture  (in  fourth)  alternately  with  cocoa  mixture  (in  thirds), 
beginning  and  ending  with  flour  mixture.  Do  not  overbeat.  Divide 
evenly  into  pans  smoothing  top.  Bake  25  to  30  minutes  or  until 
surface  springs  back  gently  pressed  with  fingertip.  Cool  in  pans  10 
minutes.  Carefully  loosen  sides  with  spatula,  remove  from  pans, 
and  cool  on  racks. 

Filling 

1  cup  heavy  cream,  chilled  sugar 

Va  cup  unsifted  confectioner's  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

Whip  cream  with  sugar  and  vanilla  and  refrigerate. 


Frosting 

1  pkg.  (6  oz.)  semisweet  choco-         1  cup  butter  or  regular  margarine 

late  pieces  2V2  cups  unsifted  confectioner's 

V2  cup  light  cream  sugar 

In  medium  saucepan,  combine  chocolate  pieces,  cream,  butter,  stir 

over   medium   heat   until    smooth.    Remove   from  heat.   With    whisk, 

blend  in  2V2  cups  confectioner's  sugar.  In  bowl  set  over  ice,  beat 
until  it  holds  shape. 

TO  ASSEMBLE  CAKE:  On  plate,  place  a  layer,  top  side  down,  spread 
with  half  of  cream.  Place  second  layer,  top  side  down  and  spread 
with  rest  of  cream.  Place  third  dayer,  top  side  up. 

TO  FROST  CAKE:  With  spatula  frost  sides  first,  covering  whipped 
cream;  use  rest  of  frosting  on  top,  swirling  decoratively.  Refrigerate 
at  least  1  hour  before  serving.  To  cut,  use  a  thin-edged  knife;  slice 
with  a  sawing  motion.  Serves  10-12. 

Mrs.  Robert  G.  Thomason,  Jr. 

-Ill- 


RED  VELVET  CAKE 

Va  cup  shortening  1  cup  buttermilk 

IV2  cups  sugar  2Va  cups  cake  flour 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  oz.  red  food  coloring  1  tsp.  soda 

2  tbs.  cocoa  1   tbs.  vinegar 
Vi  tsp.  salt 

Cream  shortening,  sugar,  and  eggs.  Mix  red  coloring  and  cocoa. 
Add  to  creamed  mixture.  Add  salt  to  buttermilk  and  add  alternately 
with  flour.  Blend  thoroughly.  Add  vanilla.  Mix  soda  and  vinegar  and 
fold  into  batter.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30  minutes  in  two  9  inch 
pans.  Split  layers  to  make  four. 

Icing 

Combine  3  tbs.  flour  and  1  cup  milk.  Cook  until  thick  (consistancy  of 
oatmeal).  Beat  this  after  cold  until  like  whipped  cream.  Add  1  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  butter,  and  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Beat  until  creamy  and  spread- 
ing consistency.  Cake  must  be  cold  before  icing. 

Mrs.  Curtis  Lee  Todd 


ORANGE  SLICE  CAKE 

2  sticks  butter  ZVi  cups  plain  flour 

2  cups  sugar  1  box  dates,  cut  in  small  pieces 

4  eggs  1  lb.  orange  slice  candy,  cut  in 

Vi  cup  buttermilk  small  pieces 

1   tsp.  soda,  dissolved  in  butter-      1  can  angel  flake  coconut 

milk  2  cups  pecans,  finely  chopped 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Add  the  remain- 
der of  the  ingredients.  Put  in  a  tube  pan  and  bake  2Vi  hours  at  250 
degrees.  Leave  in  the  pan  overnight.  As  soon  as  you  take  it  out  of 
the  oven  pour  1  cup  fresh  orange  juice  and  2  cups  4-X  powdered 
sugar  over  cake. 

Ella  Stewart 


GINGERBREAD 

V2  cup  butter  2Vi  cups  flour  (sift  before 

1  cup  sugar  measuring) 

2  eggs,  beat  1   at  a  time  Va  tsp.  salt 

Vi  cup  molasses  VA  tsp.  ginger 

1  tsp.  soda  Vi  tsp.  cinnamon 

Vi  cup  sour  miik  Vi  tsp.  allspice 

Mix  ingredients  and  cover.  Set  in  refrigerator.  Bake  when  you  are 
ready.  Sprinkle  top  with  a  little  brown  sugar  and  butter. 

Connie  Stewart 

-112- 


BANANA  NUT  CAKE 

2V2  cups  flour  2/3  cup  shortening 

2/3  cup  buttermilk  1-2/3  cup  sugar 

VU  tsp.  baking  powder  1!4  cup  mashed  bananas 

1  tsp.  soda  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  salt  Vi  cup  finely  chopped  pecans 

Sift  dry  ingredients  into  bowl,  add  shortening,  1/3  cup  of  butter- 
milk and  bananas.  Beat  well  for  2  minutes,  add  1/3  cup  buttermilk 
and  eggs,  beat  two  minutes  more.  Fold  in  nuts.  Pour  batter  into  2 
nine-inch  round  pans  or  9V2  x  13  pan.  Bake  at  350  degrees  for  30 
minutes  for  two  layers  and  40  minutes  for  long  pan.  Cool  slightly. 

MIX:  y4  cup  milk 

1  cup  brown  sugar  Va  tsp.  salt 

Va  cup  butter  2  tbs.  vanilla 

Cook  for  4  minutes,  beat  well  and  pour  over  cake. 

Mrs.  Robert  C.  Rothrock,  Sr. 


YUM-YUM  CAKE 

Mix  one  cup  of  finely  chopped  or  ground  nuts  with  2  tablespoons  of 
brown  sugar  and  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon.  Set  aside  for  late  use. 
In  a  mixing  bowl  combine: 

1  box  Duncan  Hine  Butter  Recipe  Va  cup  sugar 

Golden  cake  mix  V2  cup  Crisco  oil 

4  eggs  1   carton  sour  cream 
Va  cup  water 

Beat  ingredients  at  high  speed  for  2  minutes.  Pour  2/3  of  the  batter 
into  a  greased  and  floured  Bundt  Pan.  Sprinkle  the  nut  mixture 
evenly  over  the  batter  in  the  Bundt  Pan  before  adding  the  remain- 
ing batter.  Bake  in  a  preheated  325  degree  oven  for  45  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  oven  and  let  cake  stand  in  the  pan  for  45  minutes 
before  turning  it  out.  When  the  cake  is  cool,  cover  with  a  glaze 
made  of  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  of  milk.  Va- 
nilla, lemon,  or  almond  extract  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Velma  Gray  Parnell 


SELF  RISING  FLOUR  CAKE 

3/4  cup  Crisco  2Vz  cups  self-rising  flour 

IV2  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

1  cup  buttermilk  1   tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar  together.  Add  buttermilk  and  then  add  flour. 
Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Makes  three  8-inch  layers  or  two  9-inch  lay- 
ers. Bake  at  350  degrees  until  cake  tests  done. 

Etta  Mae  Jones 

-113- 


CARROT  CAKE 


V/t.  cups  cooking  oil 

2  cups  sugar 

4  eggs 

2  cups  self-rising  flour 

Beat  oil  and  sugar  together.  Add  eggs  and  beat  well.  Sift  flour,  cin- 
namon and  soda.  Add  carrots  and  nuts.  Bake  in  three  layers  at  350 
degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes. 


2  tsp.  cinnamon 
Vh  tsp.  soda 

3  cups  shredded  carrots 
1    cup  pecans  (optional) 


Icing 


Pinch  salt 
1  tsp.  vanilla 


1   stick  butter  or  margarine 
1  8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 
1  box  10XX  powdered  sugar 

Have  butter  and  cheese  at  room  temperature  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Add  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla. 

Beverly  W.  Minton 


DECORATORS  WHITE  ICING 


1  cup  granulated  sugar 
Va  tsp.  salt 

2  tbs.  white  corn  syrup 
2  unbeaten  egg  whites 


3  tbs.  water 
1   tsp.  vanilla 

1!4  cups  sifted  confectioner's 
sugar 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  except  vanilla,  and  confectioner's  sugar 
in  top  of  double  boiler.  Beat  well  and  place  over  boiling  water.  Cook 
until  mixture  stands  in  peaks  (about  4  or  5  min.)  beating  the  entire 
time.  Remove  from  heat,  add  vanilla  and  confectioner's  sugar  and 
blend  until  smooth.  Yield  3V2  cups  icing.  Generous  for  two  9-inch 
layers  or  will  do  for  three  8-inch  layers. 

It  is  called  decorator's  icing  because  it  can  also  be  used  in  a  deco- 
rator's tube  for  a  more  elaborate  frosting. 

Mrs.  Grace  G.  Hine 


POUND  CAKE 


1  cup  milk 

3  cups  Swans  Down  cake  flour 

1   tsp.  favorite  flavoring 


3  cups  sugar 
Vz  cup  Crisco 
2  sticks  margarine 
5  eggs 

Cream  sugar,  shortening  and  butter.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing after  each  addition.  Add  milk  alternately  with  flour.  Add  flavor- 
ing. Beat  until  creamy.  Pour  into  greased  tube  pan  and  bake  one 
hour  at  325  degrees.  Increase  heat  to  350  degrees  and  bake  one- 
half  hour  longer.  DO  NOT  preheat  oven. 

Mrs.  Ruth  Hine 


-114- 


COOKIE  SHEET  CAKE 

Sift  together:  2  cups  sugar 

2  cups  flour  Vz  tsp.  salt 

Put  in  saucepan  and  bring  to  a  boil  the  following: 

1    stick  margarine  6  tbs.  cocoa  and  add  to  the 

I  cup  Wesson  oil  above  flour  mixture 

1   cup  water 

Add  Vz  cup  buttermilk  with  1   tsp.  soda  dissolved  in  it,  and  2  eggs, 
beat  weil  and  add  1  tsp.  vanilla. 

Pour  into  greased  and  floured  pan   18x12x1.  Bake  at  350  degrees 
for  20  minutes,  no  longer. 

Icing 

1    stick  margarine  6  tbs.  canned  milk 

1  box  powdered  sugar  2  tbs.  cocoa 

1   tsp.  vanilla 

Stir  until  smooth,  add  chopped  nuts  and  frost  as  soon  as  above  cake 
comes  from  the  oven. 

Mrs.  Harvey  L.  Hines 


MELTiNGLY  MOIST  LEMON  POUND  CAKE 

1   box  lemon  gelatin  (3  oz.)  3/4  cup  cold  water 

1  pkg.  (1   lb.  2V2  oz.)  yellow  1   tsp.  lemon  extract 

cake  mix  4  eggs 
3/4  cup  salad  oil 

Add  gelatin  to  cake  mix.  Mix  well.  Add  oil,  water,  and  extract.  Blend 
these  ingredients  together.  Add  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  mix  well. 
I. use  an  electric  mixer.  Pour  into  a  greased  and  floured  tube  pan. 
Bake  at  300  degrees  for  45  minutes  or  until  done.  Let  cake  cool  in 
pan  15  minutes  before  turning  out. 
Cake  may  be  frosted  with  lemon  glaze  or  lemon  icing. 

Mrs.  B.  H.  Hine 


QUICK  DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE 

1  tsp.  soda  4  tbs.  cocoa 

1   cup  sour  cream  1   tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  1   tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  flour  Pinch  salt 

2  eggs 

Dissolve  soda  in  sour  cream.  Add  the  remaining  ingredients  and  mix 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  slow  oven  at  325  degrees  for  25  to  30  minutes. 
Makes  two  9-inch  layers. 

Mrs.  E.  N.  Hine,  Jr. 

-115- 


CHOCOLATE  DELIGHT  CAKE 

Frosting 

Cream:  8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  and  3  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  1  cup 
Crisco,  1  tablespoon  vanilla.  Measure  1  box  sifted  powdered  sugar 
and  add  to  cream  cheese  mixture.  Sift  another  box  of  powdered 
sugar  and  add  also  with  Vi  cup  of  warm  water.  Beat  well.  Blend  in 
1  pkg.  German  chocolate  (melted)  and  add  to  cream  mixture.  Take  out 
over  half  for  frosting  and  set  aside. 

Layers 

Combine  Va  cup  Crisco  to  remaining  batter  and  mix  well.  Blend  in 
3  eggs,  one  at  a  time  and  beat  for  one  minute.  Sift  together  214  cups 
plain  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Measure  1  cup  butter- 
milk alternately  with  sifted  dry  ingredients  to  cream  mixture  be- 
ginning and  ending  with  dry  ingredients.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
350  degrees  for  25  to   30   mnutes.   Cool   and  frost  with   reserved 


chocolate  frosting. 


Mrs.  Linda  K.  Jarvis 


APRICOT  BUNDT  CAKE 

1  pkg.  Duncan  Hines  lemon  1!4  cups  apricot  nectar 

cake  mix  4  eggs 

Vi  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  lemon  extract 
V2  cup  Wesson  oil 

Combine  ingredients  and  bake  in  Bundt  cake  pan  at  400  degrees 
until  brown  (about  45-55  minutes).  Pour  glaze  over  cake  while  it 
is  still  warm. 

Glaze 

Combine  IV2  cups  powdered  sugar  with  juice  of  one  orange.  Spoon 
over  cake  which  has  been  turned  onto  a  cooling  rack. 

Mrs.  Scott  Brent 


116- 


Pies 

OLD  FASHIONED  JOHNNIE  PIE 

1  cup  brown  sugar  (scant)  1   cup  milk 

2  rounding  tbs.  flour  1  tbs.  butter  or  margarine 
Pinch  salt  and  cinnamon 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  salt,  add  milk  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Pour 
into  unbaked  crust,  dot  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  350  degree  oven  until  done,  or  about  like  custard. 

Mrs.  Pena  Rothrock  Smith 


CUSTARD  PIE 

3  cups  milk  3/4  cup  sugar 

3  tsp.  flour  1   tsp.  vanilla  (or  favorite 

3  or  4  eggs  beaten  flavoring) 

Va  tsp.  salt 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  and  pour  into  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake 
in  350  degree  oven  for  25  to  35  minutes  or  until  done. 

Mrs.  Virgil  Reid 

BUTTERNUT  SQUASH  PIE 

1   cup  butternut  squash  1  cup  sugar 

3  tbs.  butter  V2  cup  evaporated  milk 

1  egg  1   tbs.  flour 

1   tsp.  vanilla  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 

Vz  cup  coconut  (optional)  Dash  ginger  and  cinnamon 

Mix  sugar,  squash  and  butter.  Mix  egg  and  milk,  add  to  squash 
mixture,  with  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake 
at.  350  degrees  30  to  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  Tom  Sink 


PEACH  COBBLER 

1  cup  all-purpose  flour  14  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  sugar  3/4  cup  milk 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  1   stick  of  butter 

Melt  butter  in  baking  dish,  then  add  the  remaining  ingredients.  Mix 
these  ingredients  (but  not  with  mixer). 

Mix  3/4  cup  sugar  with  10  peaches  (peeled  and  sliced).  Pour  peach 
mixture  on  top  of  the  batter.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  40  min- 
utes. Blackberries  could  be  used  in  place  of  the  peaches. 

Mrs.  Gene  Reich 
-117- 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

2  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes  1   stick  butter 

2  eggs  (well  beaten) ,  1  large  can  Pet  milk 

Vi  cup  brown  sugar  V2  cup  white  sugar 

1   tsp.  vanilla  1  tsp.  lemon  flavoring 
Makes  two-pies. 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  into  unbaked  crusts.  Bake  15  minutes 
at  375  degrees,  then  cut  heat  to  350  degrees  and  bake  for  30  min- 
utes'. ■-:'■■      :'■■■■     -    .  ■       '■'.. 

;  Mrs.  Raleigh  Ingram 


ICE  CREAM  PIE 

1-2/3  cups  Pet  evaporated  milk      Vanilla  wafers  (approx.  20) 

(-  tall  can)  unsweetened  Any  flavor  Kool-Aid  drink  mix 

1  cup  sugar  .  (unsweetened) 

Chill  milk  until  almost  frozen  at  edges.  Put  ice  cold  milk  into  (cool) 
large  bowl.  Use  cold  beaters  and  whip  at  high  speed  until  fluffy. 
Add  the  sugar  and  Kool-Aid  —  whip  until  stiff. 

Line  bottom  of  9-inch  pie  pan  with  vanilla  wafers.  Pour  in  whipped 
mixture  and  freeze  until  firm  —  3  to  4  hours.  Also  makes  delicious 
ice  cream  cones.  Put  in  ice  tray  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Dianne  Clodfelter 


MILLIONAIRE'S  PIE 

2  9-in.  Graham  cracker  crusts  topping 

1  can  (#21/2)  peach  slices  1  can  (14  oz.)  sweetened  con- 

1  can  (20  oz.)  crushed  pineapple  densed  milk 

V2  cup  lemon  juice  Chopped  pecans 

1  carton  (9  oz.)  frozen  whipped 

Drain  peaches  and  chop,  combine  with  drained  pineapple  and  re- 
maining ingredients.  Turn  into  crumb  crusts,  sprinkle  with  pecans 
and  chll. 

Geneva  Kimball 


APPLE  CRISP 

6  to  8  apples,  thinly  sliced  V2  cup  pastry  or  cake  flour 

Va  cup  water  1   tsp.  cinnamon 

3/4  cup  sugar  6  tbs.  butter  or  margarine 

Peel  and  slice  apples  (thin)  into  a  baking  dish,  add  the  water.  Com- 
bine the  sugar,  flour,  cinnamon  and  salt.  Blend  in  the  butter  until 
crumbly  in  consistency.  Pour  over  sliced  apples.  Bake  uncovered  1 
hour  at  350  degrees. 

Mary  Alice  Vogier 

-118- 


PEANUT  BUTTER  CUSTARD 

Mix  together  —  Vi  cup  peanut  butter,   3/4  cup   powdered   sugar. 

Spread  half  of  this  mixture  in  Baked  Pie  Shell. 

Cook  together  in  double  boiler: 

2/3  cup  sugar  3  cups  of  milk 

3  tbs.  cornstarch  3  egg  yolks 

1   tbs.  flour  2  tbs.  butter 

Pinch  of  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cook  in  usual  way  for  Cream  Pie  until  thickened  — 

Meringue:  Va  cup  sugar 

3  egg  whites  Va  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Sprinkle  remainder  of  peanut  butter   mixture  on  top  of   meringue 
and  brown. 

Mrs.  Talmadge  James 


PIE  CRUST  MIX 

8  cups  flour  1  tbs.  salt 

2Va  cups  shortening 

Cut  shortening  into  flour  and  salt  until  it  is  about  like  cornmeai.  Store 
in  air-tight  container.  When  ready  for  a  crust,  use  a  little  over  one 
cup  of  mix  with  2  or  3  tablespoons  milk.  Roll  out  for  9  inch  crust. 

NEVER  FAIL  PIE  CRUST 

1  cup  sifted  cake  flour  1   tsp.  salt 

2  cups  sifted  all-purpose  flour  1   cup  shortening 

1  tbs.  sugar  1  egg  -  milk 

Combine  shortening  and  dry  ingredients.  Beat  one  egg  slightly  in 
measuring  cup.  Add  enough  milk  to  make  Vz  cup.  Add  ali  liquid  to 
the  shortening  and  flour  mixture,  stir  with  a  fork  until  mixture  sticks 
together.  Roll  out  on  slightly  floured  board  or  pastry  canvas.  Makes 

3  single  crusts.  Bake  crusts  8  to  10  minutes  in  425  degree  oven. 

Mrs.  James  E.  Hayworth 

PECAN  PIE 

2  eggs  Vi  cup  butter,  or  less 
2  cups  brown  sugar  Vi  cup  milk 

Va  tsp.  salt  1  cup  broken  pecans 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  eggs  thoroughly  with  sugar,  salt,  milk  and  melted  butter.  Add 
pecans,  pour  into  unbaked  pastry  shell.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  350 
degrees  about  50  minutes  or  until  done. 

Pena  Stewart 

-119- 


FRESH  STRAWBERRY  PIE 

1  9-in.  baked  pastry  shell  Red  food  coloring 

IV2  qts.  fresh  berries  V/i  cups  sugar 

Whipped  cream  or  whipped  4  tbs.  cornstarch 

topping  2  tbs.  lemon  juice 

Wash  and  cap  berries,  reserving  half  of  them  —  the  larger  ones. 
Mash  the  rest  of  the  berries  and  add  the  sugar,  cornstarch  that  has 
been  mixed  together.  Cook  5  to  6  minutes  stirring  or  until  clear  and 
thickened.  Stir  in  lemon  juice  and  few  drops  of  red  food  coloring. 
Cool.  Add  the  whole  berries  to  the  cooled  mixture,  saving  a  few 
for  garnish.  Pour  into  baked  pastry  shell.  Top  with  whipped  cream, 
and  garnish  with  a  few  whole  berries  just  before  serving. 

Inez  J.  Crews 


REFRIGERATED  DESSERT 

Lemon-Pineapple  Refrigerated  Dessert 

1   small  can  crushed  pineapple         1  beaten  egg 
and  juice  1   cup  sugar 

Cook  until  thickened  (slowly),  cool. 
Add:  1  box  lemon  Jello 

Beat  1  large  can  pet  milk  and  add  to  above  mixture.  Pour  into  graham 
cracker  crust.  Makes  2  9-in.  pies.  Keep  refrigerated  until  read  to  use. 

Mrs.  Ernest  Parker 


■120- 


Meats 

SIMPLE  SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 

1    lb.  hamburger  1    medium  onion 

14  stick  butter  1  tsp.  chili  powder 

1   can  tomato  soup  1  can  water 

1   small  green  pepper  V2  tsp.  Italian  seasoning 

Melt  butter  in  pan,  crumble  hamburger  in  pan  and  fry.  Combine 
tomato  soup  and  water,  pepper,  onion,  chili  powder  and  seasoning. 
Boil  15  to  20  minutes.  Add  meat  to  sauce,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Robert  E.  Tuttle 

CHILI  CON  CARNE 

IV2  lbs.  ground  beef  3  cups  canned  tomatoes 

3  medium  onion,  chopped  1   cup  water 

1  bud  garlic,  finely  chopped  3  bay  leaves 

3  tbs.  shortening  1   tbs.  salt 

2  cans  kidney  beans  2  or  3  tbs.  chili  powder 

Fry  meat,  onions  and  garlic  in  shortening,  stirring  until  brown.  Add 
remaining  ingredients.  Cover  and  simmer  for  one  hour.  Remove  bay 
leaves.  6  to  8  servings. 

Mrs.  Nina  W.  Smith 

TACO  SAUCE 

4  cans  whole  tomatoes,  drained      3   Jalapenda   peppers  (clean  out 

and  chopped  seeds  and  chop) 

Vi  cup  chopped  onions  2  tsp.  olive  oil 

2  tbs.  garlic  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
2  tbs.  oregano 

Brown  onions  in  oil,  mix  in  tomatoes  and  other  ingredients,  heat 
but  do  not  boil.  Simmer  about  1  hour.  Serve  with  shredded  cheddar 
cheese,  tomatoes  and  lettuce.  (Meat  can  be  chicken,  roast  or  ground 
beef.) 

Ricky  Simmons 

BEEF  STROGONOFF 

2  lbs.  stew  beef,  chuck  or  sirloin       1    can  button  mushrooms 
2  cans  steak  sauce  (with  mush-  4  tsp.  crushed  dill 

rooms)  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1    can  onion  soup  1    pt.  sour  cream 

Flour  and  brown  meat.  Add  steak  sauce,  mushrooms  and  dill.  Cook 
over  low  heat  until  meat  is  done  —  about  3  hours.  Add  sour  cream 
and  serve  over  rice. 

Mrs.   Odessa    Pitts 

-121- 


LEE'S  FAVORITE  CASSEROLE 


1/3  cup  mayonnaise 
VA  cups  grated  cheese 
2  tbs.  butter 
4  oz.  wide  cooked  noodles, 

buttered 
1   tsp.  prepared  mustard 


1  lb.  ground  beef  (cooked) 
1/3  cup  evaporated  milk 

2  eggs 

1/3  cup  ketchup 
Va  chopped  onion  (optional) 
Vh  tsp.  salt 
Va  cup  chopped  green  pepper 

Mix  beef,  milk,  eggs,  ketchup,  onion  and  salt  —  set  aside.  Mix 
cooked  noodles,  mustard,  green  pepper  and  mayonnaise.  Spread 
this  mixture  in  a  greased  2  qt.  baking  dish.  Spread  beef  mixture 
(which  has  been  cooked  until  color  changes,  do  not  brown).  Sprinkle 
with  shreded  cheese.  Bake  at  325  degrees  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  G.  Ricks  Sink 


HEAVENLY  SPAGHETTI 


1  7-oz.  pkg.  spaghetti 
IM2   lbs.  ground  beef 

2  8-oz.  cans  tomato  sauce 
1  8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 
Vz  lb.  cottage  cheese 


Va  cup  sour  cream 
1/3  cup  chopped  onions 
1   tbs.  minced  green  pepper 
Salt  and   pepper 


Cook  spaghetti,  drain.  Cook  beef  until  it  loses  its  color.  Do  not  pour 
off  grease.  Add  tomato  sauce,  salt  and  pepper  and  remove  from 
heat.  Mix  cottage  cheese,  cream  cheese,  sour  cream,  onions  and 
green  pepper  (have  cheeses  at  room  temperature).  Butter  2-qt. 
casserole,  put  in  half  of  spaghetti  and  cover  with  cheese  mixture. 
Put  remaining  spaghetti  in  and  cover  with  meat  mixture.  Let  set 
several  hours  or  over  night  in  refrigerator,  let  come  to  room  tem- 
perature (if  in  refrigerator)  and  bake  at  350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Rebecca  H.  Weavil 


BEEF  PUT-TOGETHER 


1    tbs.  shortening 
1   lb.  chuck  beef,  ground 
1    large  onion,  sliced 
1   medium  green  pepper,  coarse- 
ly chopped 


1   No.  2V2  can  tomatoes 
1   cup  quick-cooking  rice 
1   tsp.  salt 
1   tsp.  chili   powder 
Ve  tsp.  pepper 


Melt  shortening  in  large  skillet.  Add  beef,  and  stir  occasionally  until 
well  browned.  Add  onion,  green  pepper,  tomatoes,  rice  and  sea- 
sonings. Cover,  bring  to  boil.  Cook  15  to  20  minutes.  Pre-cooking 
the  rice  will  make  a  more  moist  casserole. 

Mrs.  Eugene  A.  Reed 

-122- 


BAKED  STUFFED  FISH 

3  cups  cracker  crumbs  Va  tsp.  rosemary 

2/3  cup  butter  V2  tsp.  salt 
3/4  cups  chopped  celery  Va  tsp.  pepper 

Va  cup  chopped  onion  !4  cup  hot  water 

2  tbs.  lemon  juice  4-5  lb.  fish 
2  tsp.  parsley  Salad  oil 

Heat  butter  in  skillet.  Add  celery  and  onion,  cook  until  onion  is  trans- 
parent. Add  to  crumbs  with  next  five  ingredients.  Add  hot  water 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Stuff  fish  lightly  after  having  rubbed  inside  of 
fish  with  tablespoon  of  salt.  Brush  outside  of  fish  with  oil.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  45-50  minutes  or  until  fish    flakes. 

Mrs.  James  Dodd 


TALLERENE 

1   lb.  finely  ground  steak,  chuck  1    medium  size  onion 

or  hamburger  meat  2  cans  tomato  soup 

1  can  Mexicorn  (or  corn  with  V2    lb.   American   cheese,   grated 
pimento)  and/or  sliced 

3/4  box  noodles 

Fry  ground  meat  in  small  quantity  of  butter  (or  oil)  chopping  as  it  fries 
until  done.  Dice  onion  and  fry  with  meat.  Preboil  noodles  in  salt 
water  for  approximately  seven  minutes.  Arrange  casserole  (or  cas- 
seroles) as  follows:  Layer  of  meat,  layer  of  noodles,  layer  of  corn 
(drained  and  uncooked),  tomato  soup,  plus  small  amount  of  water; 
stir,  place  cheese  in  layers  and  on  top  with  dash  of  catsup.  Bake  in 
oven  350  degrees  for  40  to  60  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wiley  E.  Reid 


BARBECUE  CHICKEN 

2  tbs.  vinegar  1   tsp.  hot  chili  powder 

3  tbs.  catsup  1  tsp.  Texas  Pete  sauce 
IV2  tbs.  mustard                                  2  tsp.  water 

V/2  tbs.  Worchester  sauce  4  tsp.  melted  butter 

2  tbs.  brown  sugar  1   chicken  (cut  up) 

1  tbs.  salt 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  chicken.  Dip  chicken  in  sauce.  Place 
chicken  on  large  piece  of  foil,  add  remaining  sauce.  Wrap  foil 
around  chicken  and  bake  at  275-300  degrees  for  2  hours  and  45 
minutes. 

Mercelene  Robbins 

-123- 


CHICKEN  BAKED  PORK  CHOPS 


4  (1   inch  thick)  pork  chops 
Vt.  cup  long  cooking  rice 
1   can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

(7V2  oz.) 
1    cup  milk 


1!4  tsp.  salt 

14  tsp.  pepper 

1   tsp.  dry  mustard 

!4  cup  chopped  onions 


Brown  chops,  sprinkle  uncooked  rice  over  chops.  Combine  other  in- 
gredients, pour  over  chops  and  rice.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  1  to 
T/2  hours,  until  tender. 

Rebecca  Weavil  Meeks 


LASAGNA 


1  303  can  of  tomatoes 
!/2  cup  Parmesan  cheese 

1  8-oz.  pkg.  broad  noodles 
IV2  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  pepper 

2  cups  cottage  cheese 
1  lb.  Marzella  cheese 


1  onion,  chopped 

2  cloves  of  garlic 
Va  cup  chopped  celery 
2  tbs.  margarine  or  oil 
IV2  lb.  ground  beef 
Vi  tsp.  oregano 
1    bay  leaf 
1   6-oz.  can  tomato  paste 

Saute  onions,  garlic,  celery  and  margarine  until  soft.  Add  beef,  cook 
over  medium  heat  until  pink  is  gone.  Add  seasonings,  tomatoes, 
tomato  paste  and  simmer  one-half  hour.  Cook  and  drain  noodles. 
Place  I/2  noodles  then  V2  meat  sauce,  then  all  of  cottage  cheese.  Re- 
peat a  layer  of  noodles  and  layer  of  meat  sauce.  Top  with  layer  of 
marzella  cheese,  sprinkled  with  parmesan  cheese.  Bake  350  degrees 
for  35  to  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  Betty  Foster 


JOHNNY  MARSETTI 


1  medium  onion  chopped 
Va   stick   margarine 
Hamburger 

2  tsp.  salt 
Dash  pepper 


1 V2  cup  grated  cheese 
1   8-oz.  can  tomato  sauce 
1    can  chopped   mushrooms 
I/2   box  small   sea-shel!   macaroni 
(pre-cooked)   8   oz.    box 


Saute  in  skillet  onion,  margarine,  hamburger,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
Vi  of  grated  cheese,  V2  can  tomato  sauce  and  entire  can  mushrooms. 
Simmer  until  bubbly. 

Line  bottom  of  casserole  with  cooked  macaroni.  Add  remaining  to- 
mato sauce  and  stir  lightly.  Top  with  remaining  grated  cheese.  Bake 
at  325  degrees  for  approximately  one  hour. 

Susan   Pinkston 


-124- 


BAKED  STUFFED  FISH 


3  cups  cracker  crumbs 
2/3  cup  butter 
3/4  cups  chopped  celery 
14  cup  chopped  onion 
2  tbs.  lemon  juice 
2  tsp.  parsley 


Va  tsp.  rosemary 
V2  tsp.  salt 
Va  tsp.  pepper 
Va  cup  hot  water 
4-5  lb.  fish 
Salad  oil 


Heat  butter  in  skillet.  Add  celery  and  onion,  cook  until  onion  is  trans- 
parent. Add  to  crumbs  with  next  five  ingredients.  Add  hot  water 
and  mix  thoroughly.  Stuff  fish  lightly  after  having  rubbed  inside  of 
fish  with  tablespoon  of  salt.  Brush  outside  of  fish  with  oil.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  45-50  minutes  or  until  fish   flakes. 

Mrs.  James  Dodd 


TALLERENE 


1    lb.  finely  ground  steak,  chuck 

or  hamburger  meat 
1  can  Mexicorn  (or  corn  with 

pimento) 
3/4  box  noodles 


1  medium  size  onion 

2  cans  tomato  soup 

I/2    lb.   American   cheese,   grated 
and/or  sliced 


Fry  ground  meat  in  small  quantity  of  butter  (or  oil)  chopping  as  it  fries 
until  done.  Dice  onion  and  fry  with  meat.  Preboil  noodles  in  salt 
water  for  approximately  seven  minutes.  Arrange  casserole  (or  cas- 
seroles) as  follows:  Layer  of  meat,  layer  of  noodles,  layer  of  corn 
(drained  and  uncooked),  tomato  soup,  plus  small  amount  of  water; 
stir,  place  cheese  in  layers  and  on  top  with  dash  of  catsup.  Bake  in 
oven  350  degrees  for  40  to  60  minutes. 

Mrs.  Wiley  E.  Reid 


BARBECUE  CHICKEN 


2  tbs.  vinegar 

3  tbs.  catsup 

IV2  tbs.  mustard 
IV2  tbs.  Worchester  sauce 
2  tbs.  brown  sugar 
1  tbs.  salt 


1  tsp.  hot  chili  powder 

1  tsp.  Texas  Pete  sauce 

2  tsp.  water 

4  tsp.  melted  butter 
1  chicken  (cut  up) 


Combine  all  ingredients  except  chicken.  Dip  chicken  in  sauce.  Place 
chicken  on  large  piece  of  foil,  add  remaining  sauce.  Wrap  foil 
around  chicken  and  bake  at  275-300  degrees  for  2  hours  and  45 
minutes. 

Mercelene  Robbins 


-123- 


CHICKEN  BAKED  PORK  CHOPS 


4  (1   inch  thick)  pork  chops 
Vi  cup  long  cooking  rice 
1   can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

(7V2  oz.) 
1    cup  milk 


VA  tsp.  salt 

14  tsp.  pepper 

1   tsp.  dry  mustard 

!4  cup  chopped  onions 


Brown  chops,  sprinkle  uncooked  rice  over  chops.  Combine  other  in- 
gredients, pour  over  chops  and  rice.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven  1  to 
1V2  hours,  until  tender. 

Rebecca  Weavil  Meeks 


LASAGNA 


1  303  can  of  tomatoes 
Vi  cup  Parmesan  cheese 

1  8-oz.  pkg.  broad  noodles 
Vh  tsp.  salt 

Vi  tsp.  pepper 

2  cups  cottage  cheese 
1  lb.  Marzella  cheese 


1  onion,  chopped 

2  cloves  of  garlic 
Va  cup  chopped  celery 
2  tbs.  margarine  or  oil 
IV2  lb.  ground  beef 
Vi  tsp.  oregano 
1   bay  leaf 
1   6-oz.  can  tomato  paste 

Saute  onions,  garlic,  celery  and  margarine  until  soft.  Add  beef,  cook 
over  medium  heat  until  pink  is  gone.  Add  seasonings,  tomatoes, 
tomato  paste  and  simmer  one-half  hour.  Cook  and  drain  noodles. 
Place  Vi  noodles  then  V2  meat  sauce,  then  all  of  cottage  cheese.  Re- 
peat a  layer  of  noodles  and  layer  of  meat  sauce.  Top  with  layer  of 
marzella  cheese,  sprinkled  with  parmesan  cheese.  Bake  350  degrees 
for  35  to  40  minutes. 

Mrs.  Betty  Foster 


JOHNNY  MARSETTI 


1  medium  onion  chopped 
Va   stick   margarine 
Hamburger 

2  tsp.  salt 
Dash  pepper 


IV2  cup  grated  cheese 
1   8-oz.  can  tomato  sauce 
1    can  chopped   mushrooms 
Vi   box  small   sea-shell   macaroni 
(pre-cooked)   8   oz.   box 


Saute  in  skillet  onion,  margarine,  hamburger,  salt  and  pepper.  Add 
Vi  of  grated  cheese,  Vi  can  tomato  sauce  and  entire  can  mushrooms. 
Simmer  until  bubbly. 

Line  bottom  of  casserole  with  cooked  macaroni.  Add  remaining  to- 
mato sauce  and  stir  lightly.  Top  with  remaining  grated  cheese.  Bake 
at  325  degrees  for  approximately  one  hour. 

Susan   Pinkston 


-124- 


SHRIMP  CREOLE 

V2  medium  onion  (chopped)  1   tsp.  chili  pepper 

V2  medium  bell  pepper  (diced)  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  clove  garlic  (minced)  V2  tsp.  Worchester  sauce 

2  tbs.  butter  1  tsp.  sugar 

1   6-oz.  can  tomato  paste  1  tsp.  vinegar 

1   cup  cooked  tomatoes  1  lb.  fresh  or  frozen  baby  shrimp 

V2  cup  water  3  cups  boiled  white  rice 

Cook  onion,  bell  pepper,  and  garlic  in  butter  until  tender.  Add  to- 
mato paste,  tomatoes,  water,  chili  pepper,  salt,  Worchester  sauce, 
sugar  and  vinegar.  Stir  mixture  well  and  let  simmer  15  minutes.  De- 
vein  shrimp  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Let  mixture  simmer  an  addi- 
tional 30  minutes  or  until  shrimp  are  tender.  Serve  over  steaming 
lightly  buttered  rice.  Makes  4  servings. 

Mrs.  Nicholas  A.  Hammond 


SHRIMP  JAMBALAYA 

1  cup  diced  celery  IV2  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  diced  green  pepper  14  tsp.  red  pepper  liquid  sauce 
2  onions,  diced  V2  tsp.  chili   powder 

4  tbs.  butter  or  margarine  1    tsp.  sugar 

1-2  gloves  of  garlic,  minced  2  cans  tomatoes  (1   lb.  each) 

1  lb.  cooked  ham,  diced  3  cups  hot  cooked  rice 

2  lbs.  peeled,  deveined  shrimp 

Cook  celery,  green  pepper  and  onion  in  half  of  butter  or  margarine 
until  tender  —  not  brown.  Add  garlic  and  ham;  cook  5  minutes 
longer.  Add  remaining  butter,  salt,  red  pepper  sauce,  chili  powder 
and  sugar,  stir.  Add  all  of  this  to  tomatoes  which  have  been  mashed 
and  heated,  add  shrimp.  Cook  until  shrimp  are  pink  and  tender,  stir 
with  fork  often.  Add  cooked  rice.  This  has  to  cook  slowly  over  med- 
ium heat.  Serves  8. 

Mrs.  David  Conrad 


TUNA  SALAD  BAKE 

1    can  condensed  cream  of  chic-  V2  cup  salad  dressing  or  mayon- 

ken  soup  naise 

1  6V2  or  7  to  9Va  oz.  can  of  tuna  !4  tsp.  pepper 

1    cup  diced  celery  3  hard  cooked  eggs,  sliced 

'4  cup  finely  chopped  onion  1  cup  crushed  potato  chips 

Mix  first  six  ingredients;  fold  in  egg  slices.  Pile  lightly  into  1  V2  quart 
casserole.  Sprinkle  with  crushed  chips.  Bake  in  hot  oven  (400  de- 
grees) 25  minutes.  Makes  6  servings. 

Mrs.   Tony    Kimball 

-125- 


ROLLED  CHICKEN  BREASTS 

Deboned  chicken  breast  halves         1   can  mushroom  soup 
1    jar  Armour's  sliced  dried  beef      Slivered  almonds 
V2  pt.  sour  cream    .  Bacon  (optional) 

In  Pyrex  baking  dish  place  slice  of  dried  beef  for  each  chicken  breast 
half,  place  flat  in  baking  dish  before  placing  breast  wrapped  with 
half  slice  of  bacon.  Mix  sour  cream  and  mushroom  soup,  pour  over 
chicken  breast.  Sprinkle  with  slivered  almonds.  Bake  2  hours  in  250 
degree  oven.  . 

Mrs.  Walter  Leary 


EASY  CHICKEN  PIE 

3  lb.  chicken,  cooked  and  boned  and  cut  up.  Place  in  2  quart  cas- 
serole, add  \  can  celery  soup  undiluted. 

Mix:  1   cup  milk 

1   cup  flour  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Pour  over  chicken: 

1  cup  chicken  broth  V2  stick  margarine 

Melt  margarine  in  broth   and   pour  over  chicken   and   bake   in  oven 
350  degrees  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Donald  Cude 


BRAISED  BEEF  RIBS 

2-3  lbs.  beef  short  ribs  or  spare      2  tbs.  brown  sugar 

ribs  Dash  Soy  sauce 

1    cup  catsup  Dash    ginger 

1  cup  water  Sprinkle  of  celery  salt 

I/2  tsp.  chili  powder  1    large  onion,   peeled,  stuffed 
3  tbs.  Worchestershire  sauce  with   2   large  cloves 

1   tsp.  Kitchen  Boquet  Potatoes  and  carrots 
3  tbs.  lemon  juice 

Cut  ribs  into  pieces  which  will  fit  your  pressure  cooker.  Sprinkle 
meat  tenderizer,  garlic  salt,  salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides,  pierce 
and  brown  in  shortening  in  skillet. 

While  meat  browns,  prepare  sauce  in  pressure  cooker.  Place  ribs  in 
sauce,  add  onion  on  top  and  cook  under  15  lbs.  pressure  for  45 
minutes.  Cool  pressure  cooker  normally  for  5  minutes,  then  reduce 
pressure  immediately. 

Add  peeled  carrot  sticks  and  peeled  and  quartered  potatoes  to  meat 
and  sauce,  return  to  pressure  and  cook  10  minutes.  Reduce  pres- 
sure immediately.  Lift  vegetables  to  dish  and  meat  to  platter  and 
serve  sauce  over  all. 

Mrs.  Terry  Sink 

-126- 


CHICKEN  TETRAZZINI 

(serves  12) 

4  or  5  pound  hen.  Add  water  to  cover,  salt,  pepper  and  cook  until 
done.  Save  broth,  cut  up  chicken  (about  6  cups). 
Tenderize  in  2  tbs.  Wesson  oil  the  following: 

1  cup  celery  2  green  peppers 

2  medium  onions  1   cup  slivered  almonds 

Add  the  chicken  and  4  cans  undiluted  mushroom  soup  to  the  ten- 
derized vegetables.  Cook  16  oz.  thin  spaghetti  in  chicken  broth  un- 
til tender,  add  2  tablespoons  butter  —  do  not  drain.  Mix  with  the 
other  ingredients.  Put  into  9x13  pan.  Bake  in  350  degree  oven 
until  it  begins  to  bubble.  Sprinkle  with  parmesan  cheese. 

Mrs.  Francis  M.  Hege 

ITALIAN  POT  ROAST 

1   beef  chuck  or  round  roast  3  sprigs  parsley 

4  tbs.  olive  oil  2  bay  leaves 

1  cup  dry  white  wine  2  tsp.  salt 

Vi  cup  canned   Italian  tomatoes         1   tsp.  pepper 

5  small  cloves  garlic,  crushed  1  tsp.  dried  basil 

2  medium  onions,  halved  Vi  tsp.  dried  thyme 

In  dutch  oven  or  deep  heavy  kettle,  heat  oiive  oil,  brown  roast  on 
all  sides.  Pour  in  wine,  reduce  heat.  Add  tomatoes,  garlic,  onions, 
parsley,  bay  leaves,  salt,  pepper,  basil  and  thyme,  cover  and  sim- 
mer 4  hours  or  until  meat  is  fork  tender.  Turn  roast  once. 

Betsy   Chappell 

CHICKEN  PIE 

1   2V2  to  3  lb.  chicken  V2  tsp.  black  pepper 

1    stick   margarine  1   cup  flour 

salt  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

1    cup  milk  1  can  cream  of  celery  soup 

1   can  chicken  broth 

Cook  chicken  until  tender,  do  that  in  water  to  cover  adding  a  rib 
or  two  of  celery,  a  few  peppercorns,  salt  and  granulated  chicken 
boullion.  Pull  meat  from  the  bones  and  shred  with  fingers.  Put 
chicken  in  baking  dish  about  13x7  inches.  Melt  margarine  and  pour 
over  chicken.  Sift  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt.  Blend  in  milk 
until  smooth.  Spread  flour  mixture  evenly  over  chicken.  In  sauce- 
pan, blend  soup  and  broth  just  as  each  comes  from  the  can.  Heat  to 
boiling  and  pour  over  flour  mixture.  Bake  in  425  degree  oven  un- 
til lightly  brown.  Approximately  45  minutes. 

Geneva  Mosteller 

-127- 


CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

2  cups  diced  cooked  chicken  1  can  undiluted  cream  of  chicken 

1  cup  diced  celery  soup 

Vi  cup  almond  slivers  1   can  undiluted  cream  of  celery 

2  tbs.  chopped  onions  soup 

Toss  first  four  ingredients  together.  Put  tossed  mixture  and  soup 
in  alternate  layers  in  a  buttered  casserole  (2  qt.  size).  Bake  in  350 
degree  oven  until  bubbly,  approximately  1  hour.  Then  top  with 
Ritz  cracker  crumbs,  return  to  oven  and  toast  them.  (This  can  be  put 
together  a  day  ahead  of  time  and  heated  prior  to  serving.) 

Roma  Welch 


SEAFOOD  GUMBO 

1    onion   chopped  1  tsp.  thyme 

4  tbs.  butter  1    tsp.  allspice 

1   can  okra  and  tomatoes  mixed  Red  pepper,  salt  and  black  pep- 
plus    1    can  of  tomatoes  or  per  to  taste 

1    pkg.   frozen   okra   and   2  1   can  shrimp 

large  cans  of  tomatoes)  1   can  crabmeat 

Piece  of  celery  2  quarts  water 

Piece  of  bell   pepper  Gumbo  file  (if  available) 

Melt  butter  in  skillet,  brown  onions  in  butter.  Add  4  tsp.  flour  and 
brown.  Add  okra,  tomatoes,  celery,  pepper  and  spices.  Put  into 
something  larger  and  cook  until  done,  about  1  hour.  Add  crab  and 
shrimp  and  cook  about  15  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  heat  and 
add  heaping  tablespoon  of  file. 

Mrs.  Ann  K.  Stafford 


128 


Vegetables  and  Casseroles 

BEAN  SALAD 

1    No.  2  can  French-style  green  1   onion,  sliced 

beans  1   cup  celery 

1   No.  2  can  wax  beans  3/4  cup  sugar 

1   can  kidney  beans  Vz  cup  vinegar 

1    large  green  pepper  2   tbs.   salad   oil 

Mix  ingredients  and  serve. 


Naomi  Phillips 


JANET'S  SLAW 

3  lbs.  cabbage,  grated  1  carrot,  chopped 

1    small  onion,  chopped  Vs  cup  salt 

1   green  pepper,  chopped 

Grate  cabbage  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  stand  15  to  30  minutes. 
Squeeze  out  juice.  In  separate  bowl  mix  onion,  pepper  and  carrot. 
Add  IV2  cups  sugar  and  IV2  cups  vinegar.  Combine  with  cabbage 
and  mix  well.  Do  not  remove  any  liquid  because  of  its  pickling 
quality.  This  slaw  wiil  keep  a  week  or  longer  in  the  refrigerator. 

The  Women's  Fellowship 


PORK  CHOP  CASSEROLE 

1    pkg.  wild  rice  1   can  Chinese  vegetables 

1   can  creamed  mushroom  soup         Pork  chops 

Cook  wild  rice,  drain  vegetables  and  save  juice.  Mix  rice,  vegetables, 
and  mushroom  soup  in  casserole.  Add  half  cup  liquid.  Arrange  pork 
chops  on  top.  Put  in  350  degree  oven  and  bake  1  hour. 

Mrs.    Robert   Lloyd 


BAKED  SQUASH 

2  medium  squash  1  bag  or  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm 
1   egg  Poultry  stuffing 

1   can  cream  of  chicken  soup  (or  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

mushroom   soup)  1    diced  onion 
Va  stick  of  butter 

Cook  squash  until  tender,  mash  and  add  other  ingredients,  leave 
enough  stuffing  mix  to  sprinkle  on  top  of  casserole.  Bake  at  400 
degrees  30  minutes  or  until  brown. 

Sue  Woosley 

-129- 


GREEN  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

4  cups  green  beans  cooked  dry 

Mix  1  can  mushroom  soup,  1  carton  sour  cream  and  Va  tsp.  garlic 
salt,  spread  over  beans  in  IV2  qt.  baking  dish.  Top  with  1  cup  crack- 
er crumbs  or  fine  bread  crumbs,  Vi  stick  butter  and  V2  cup  grated 
cheddar  cheese.  Bake  30  minutes  at  400  degrees.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Dixon 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 

4  slices  bread  (toasted  and  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

crumbled)  2  boiled  eggs 

1   can  asparagus,  drained  2  slices  American  cheese 

Dash  of  onion  flakes  Va  cup  milk 

Grease  IV2  qt.  baking  dish,  add  half  of  the  crumbs,  half  of  aspar- 
agus, 1  egg  chopped  and  1  slice  of  cheese  (in  small  pieces).  Repeat 
second  layer.  Mix  milk  with  soup  and  pour  over  mixture.  Bake  at 
350  degrees  for  45  minutes. 

Cheryl   Dixon   Hine 


CORN  CASSEROLE 

2  No.  2  cans  cream  style  corn  2  eggs,  beaten 

1   small  jar  pimento  chopped  1    can  onion  rings 

3  tbs.  butter  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  onion  rings.  Put  mixture  in  buttered  cas- 
erole,  cover  with  onion  rings.  Bake  at  350  degrees,  30  to  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  Michael   Buckner 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

2  lbs.  yellow  squash,  sliced  3  tbs.  flour 

1    medium  onion,  sliced  2   eggs,  slightly  beaten 

1  tsp  .salt  1   cup  milk 

V2  tsp.  sugar  1/2  lb.  sharp  cheese,  grated 

3  tbs.  melted  butter  Buttered  bread  crumbs 

Combine  squash,  onion,  salt  and  sugar.  Simmer  with  small  amount 
of  water  for  20  minutes.  Drain  well,  mash  with  potato  masher.  Add 
eggs,  milk,  melted  butter,  flour  and  cheese.  Bake  in  buttered  IV2 
qt.  casserole  for  30  minutes.  Top  with  crumbs  and  bake  10  minutes 
more.  (This  recipe  freezes  well.) 

Mrs.  Ray  J.  Reed 

-130- 


PEAS  'N  CHEESE 

Prepare  cheese  sauce  using  1 ! '2  tablespoons  butter  and  1  tablespoon 
flour,  melt  butter  over  low  heat  and  blend  in  flour  stirring  until 
mixture  is  bubbly.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  1  cup  of  milk, 
add  1  cup  grated  American  cheese  and  cook  mixture  until  thickened. 
In  a  casserole  put  drained  green  peas,  cover  with  cheese  sauce  and 
bake  in  350  degree  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Bobby  Allen 


CAULIFLOWER  AND  GREEN  PEAS  CASSEROLE 

2    10-oz.   pkgs.  (or  fresh)  1    IOV2-0Z.  can  cream  of  mush- 
cauliflower  room  soup 

1    1  7-oz.  can  early  June  peas  V2  cup  grated  cheddar  cheese 
(small    size)  (sharp) 

Vi  cup  milk 

Arrange  cooked  cauliflower  in  greased  baking  dish.  Add  layer  of 
drained  peas.  Dilute  soup  with  milk  and  pour  over  peas.  Sprinkle 
cheese  on  top.  Bake  at  375  degrees  until  bubbly.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Raymond  Ebert 


SLAW 

1    3  lb.  head  cabbage  1   medium  onion 

1  green  pepper  1  tsp.  salt 

1   2-oz.  jar. pimento  pepper  1  tsp.  mustard  seed 

Grate  cabbage,  pepper  and  onion.  Mix  well  with  salt  and  mustard 
seed. 

1  cup  vinegar  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  cup  water 

Bring  vinegar,  water,  and  sugar  to  a  boil.  When  cool,  pour  over 
cabbage,  pepper  and  onion  mixture.  Refrigerate  until  ready  to 
serve.  Drain  and  add  a  small  amount  of  mayonnaise,  if  desired. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Ebert,  Jr. 

SAVORY  TOMATOES 

1    large  can  tomatoes  (2!/2  cups)  2  tbs.  flour 

Don't  use  the  juice  2  tbs.  sugar 

V4  green  pepper,  diced  2  tbs.  melted  butter 

1  tbs.  chopped  onion  3  tbs.  cream 

2  tbs.  chopped  celery  V2  cup  bread  crumbs 

Combine  vegetables,  add  flour  mixed  with  sugar.  Put  in  greased 
baking  dish.  Pour  butter  and  cream  over  mixture,  top  with  bread 
crumbs.  Bake  45  minutes  at  350  degrees. 

Norma  Smith 

-131- 


FRAN'S  CASSEROLE 

2  cups  boiling  water  2/3  cup  wild  rice 

Pour  water  over  rice,  cover  and  let  set  15  minutes,  then  drain. 

1   No.   IOV2  can  beef  builion  or  V2  tsp.  garlic  salt 

consume  Va  tsp.  smoked  salt 

1    4-oz.  can   mushrooms  ]A  tsp.  pepper 
V2  cup  water 

Slightly  brown: 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1    lb.  hamburger 

2  tbs.  fat  or  oil 

Combine  other  ingredients  with  hamburger  in  a  casserole  dish. 
Bake  covered  for  30  minutes  at  325  degrees,  then  bake  uncovered 
for  30  minutes,  or  until  all  liquid  is  gone.  Serves  6  to  8  people. 

Dot  Hepler 


BAKED  MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

1  8-oz.  pkg.  macaroni  Salt  and  pepper 

3  tbs.   butter  Vi   lb.   grated   American  cheese 

3  tbs.  flour  1   cup  dry  bread  crumbs 

2  cups  milk 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  tender;  drain  and  rinse. 
Make  white  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  milk,  and  seasonings;  add  2/3 
of  cheese;  stir  until  melted.  Pour  over  macaroni  in  greased  baking 
dish.  Sprinkle  remaining  cheese  and  crumbs  over  top.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate over  (325  degrees)  30  minutes. 

For  Tomato  Macaroni,  add  IV2  cups  cooked  tomatoes  after  half  the 
macaroni  is  added. 

Mrs.  Aubrey  L.  Smith 


-732- 


Salads 


SUNNY  SALAD 

1   pkg.  orange  gelatin  1  cup  canned  mandarin  orange 
1    cup  boiling  water  sections 

1  cup  cold  water  2  cups  minature  marshmallows 
V2  cup  whipped  cream 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  boiling  water,  add  cold  water.  Chill  until  thick- 
ened. Fold  in  remaining  ingredents  and  congeal. 

Mrs.  Paul  Folmar 


BLUEBERRY  DELIGHT 

2  boxes  blackberry  Jello  (dissolved)  in  3  cups  hot  water  —  let  cool. 
Add:  1  can  blueberries  and  juice  —  1  15  oz.  can  crushed  apple. 
Pour  into  shallow  container  10  x  14,  plastic,  glass,  etc.  Place  in  re- 
frigerator and  chill  until  firm. 

Mix   together:  1   tsp.  vanilla 

1    8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  carton  sour  cream 

softened)  V2  cup  sugar 

Put  on  top  of  Jello  mixture,  cover  with  lid  or  handi-wrap  and  chill. 

Mrs.  Earl  Simmons 


APRICOT  JELLO  SALAD 

2  cans  apricots  1   large  can  crushed  pineapple 

2  cups  hot  water  1  cup  combined  apricot  and 

1   cup  minature  marshmallows  pineapple  juice 

Drain  and  chill  the  fruits,  reserve  the  juice.  Dissolve  Jello  in  boiling 
water;  add  one  cup  fruit  juice  (reserve  remaining  juice  for  topping). 
Chill  until  congealed.  Fold  in  fruit  and  marshmallows.  Pour  into  pan. 
When  congealed  spread  with  fruit-cheese  topping. 

TOPPING:  3/4  cup  grated  cheese 

V2  cup  sugar  3  tbs.  flour 

1  egg,  slightly  beaten  1   cup  combined  fruit  juices 

2  tbs.  butter  1  pkg.  dream  whip,  prepared 

Combine  sugar  and  flour  and  blend  in  beaten  egg.  Gradually  stir 
in  juice,  cook  over  low  heat  until  thick.  Remove  from  heat  and  si ir 
in  butter.  Coo!.  Fold  in  Dream  Whip  and  spread  over  chilled  gelatin 
layer.  Sprinkle  top  with  grated  cheese.  Chill. 

Mrs.  James  S.  Martin 

-133- 


TART  CHERRY  SALAD  MOLD 

1  can  red  pie  cherries  (water  V2  cup  sugar 

pack)  2  pkgs.  cherry  gelatin 

1    can   (8V2  oz.)  crushed  pine-  IV2  cups  ginger  ale 

apple  V2  cup  chopped  nuts 

Drain  juices  from  cherries  and  pineapple,  add  cold  water  to  make 
IV2  cups,  add  sugar,  bring  to  boil.  Stir  in  gelatin  until  dissolved. 
Add  fruits  and  ginger  ale.  Chill  until  very  thick  but  not  set.  Stir  in 
nuts.  Pour  into  mold  and  chill  until  firm. 

Mrs.  Michael  McCray 


PINEAPPLE  DESSERT 

Vh  cups  crushed  vanilla  wafers      1/3  cup  melted  margarine 
Combine  these  two  together  and  spread  in  baking  dish. 

1   can  crushed  pineapple  3  egg  yolks 

.  j,    (medium  size  can)  V2  cup  broken  nuts 

1.  pkg.  lemon  Jello  3  egg  whites 

1/3  cup  margarine  14  cup  sugar 
Vz  cup  sugar 

Drain  pineapple  and  heat  juice  to  boiling  point,  remove  from  heat 
and  add  Jello,  stir  and  cool  to  room  temperature.  Cream  the  mar- 
garine and  I/2  cup  sugar,  add  egg  yolks,  beat  well,  stir  into  the  Jello 
mixture  and  add  nuts. 

Beat  egg  whites  to  a  soft  peak,  gradually  add  the  Va  cup  sugar  and 
beat   until    stiff.   Fold   into  the   above   mixture   and    pour   over   the 
crushed  wafers.  This  can  be  topped  with  V2  cup  wafer  crumbs. 
Place  in  refrigerator.  Can  be  made  several  days  ahead  and  will  keep 
for  some  time.  This  can  be  topped  with  dream  whip  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Christian  H.  Reed 


AMBROSIA  MOLD 

1    pkg.  orange  gelatin  and  quartered 

1    cup  boiling  water  V2  cup  angel  flake  coconut 

3/4  cup  cold  liquid  1   cup  whipped  cream  or  dream 

VA  cups  seeded  red  grape  halves  whip 

or  1   medium  banana  sliced  1    can  mandarin  orange  sections 

Drain  liquid  from  oranges,  add  cold  water  to  make  3/4  cup.  Cut 
orange  segiments  in  halves.  Dissolve  gelatin  in  boiling  water,  add 
the  cold  liquid.  Chill  and  whip  until  consistency  of  egg  white.  Fold 
in  cream  or  dream  whip,  fold  in  coconut,  orange  sections,  grapes  or 
banana.  Pour  into  VA  quart  mold.  Chill  until  firm. 

Mrs.  Jay  V.  Smith,  Jr. 

-134- 


RUSSIAN  SALAD 

1    pkg.   lime  Jello  3/4  cup  boiling  water 

Stir  until  dissolved  and  let  cool. 

1/3  cup  mayonnaise  1    small  can  evaporated   milk 
1    small  pkg.  cream  cheese  (chilled  and  whipped) 

1    small   can  crushed   pineapple  16  marshmallows,  chopped 

1/3  cup  pecans,  chopped  2    bananas,   diced 

Blend  together  cream  cheese  and  mayonnaise.  Add  marshmallows, 
pineapple,  bananas,  pecans  and  whipped  milk.  Add  a  few  diced 
cherries,  if  desired.  Stir  into  Jello.  Pour  into  molds  or  a  large  pan 
and  chill. 

Kathryn  White 


CHEESE  FRUIT  MOLD 

1    16-oz.  can  fruit  cocktail  1   3-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 

1    pkg.    lemon   Jello  V2  cup  whipping  cream 

Place  undrained  fruit  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  a  boil,  pour  over  Jello 
and  stir  until  dissolved.  Let  stand  until  slightly  thickened.  Break 
cheese  in  small  pieces.  Add  to  cream.  Whip  until  stiff.  Fold  into  Jello 
mixture.  Pour  into  cold-water-rinsed  one-quart  mold.  Chill  two 
hours  or  until  firm.  Unmold.  Makes  six  to  eight  servings.  One-third 
cup  chopped  nuts  may  also  be  added.  Other  flavors  of  Jello  may 
be  substituted. 

Doris  Vogler 


FROZEN  FRUIT  SALAD 

1   pint  cream  (to  whip  1    large  bottle  red  maraschino 
1    large  can  mixed  fruits  cherries 

(cocktail)  1  small  bottle  green  maraschino 
3/4  cup  pecans,  broken  cherries 

1    lb.    miniature    marshmallows  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

Chop  cherries  in  a  large  mixing  bowl.  (Drain  the  juice  from  green 
cherries;  if  a  white  salad  is  desired,  also  drain  juice  from  red  cher- 
ries). Drain  juice  from  the  other  fruits. 

Add  all  fruits  and  nuts  to  marshmallows  and  allow  to  stand  2  hours 
(or  until  marshmallows  begin  to  melt).  Stir  occasionally. 

Whip  cream  and  fold  into  fruit-marshmallow  mixture.  (As  many  oth- 
er fruits  can  be  added  as  this  amount  of  whipped  cream  will  take.) 
Pour  into  salad  mold  and  freeze.  This  can  be  made  several  days  be- 
fore serving. 

Mrs.  Colon  Hine 

-135- 


CRANBERRY  FLUFF 

3  cups  small  marshmallows  grind,  save  juice) 

2   cups  cranberries    (blend  or  3/4  cup  sugar 

Mix  together  and  let  stand  in  refrigerator  overnight. 

2  cups  diced  apples  with  peel  on      Vi  cup  green  grapes 
Vi  cup  pecans  1   cup  cream,  whipped 

Mix  together  and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Refrigerate  until   ready 
to  serve. 

Mrs.  Dallas  F.  Chappell 


ANGEL  BAVARIAN 

Vi  pint  milk  1  cup  sugar 

2  egg  yolks  1   pinch  salt 

1    tbs.  flour 

Combine  in  a  double  boiler. 

Soak  1  envelope  plain  gelatin  in  Vi  cup  cold  water  and  add  to  cus- 
tard while  warm  and  let  dissolve.  Three  tablespoons  of  sherry  may 
be  added  if  desired. 

Cool  custard.  Beat  Vi  pint  whipping  cream.  Beat  2  egg  whites.  (Rinse 
beaters  well  between  these  steps.)  1  tsp.  vanilla.  Fold  egg  whites 
and  whipped  cream  into  custard. 

Break  up  a  6"  angel  food  cake  into  a  tube  pan.  Layer  the  cake  and 
custard,  ending  with  a  custard  layer.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Ice  with 
Vi  pint  whipped  cream  and  fresh  coconut  (1  can  of  Angel  Flake  coco- 
nut may  be  substituted). 

Judith  McPherson 


136 


Quick  and  Easy  Tips 


To  be  able  to  grease  and  flour  cake  pans  at  the  same  time,  use 
1  part  butter  to  1  part  flour,  mix  until  creamy.  Store  in  refrigerator- 
will  keep  for  long  time. 

AArs.   Ruth   Hine 


Use  one  to  2  tablespoons  of  Tapioca   in  fruit  pies   instead  of 
flour.  It  will  thicken  with  less  loss  of  juices. 

Margaret  Fishel 


WALNUT  CHEESE  STICKS 

Use  1  stick  pie  crust  mix,  blending  in  Vz  cup  sharp  shreded 
cheese.  Roll  thin,  sprinkle  with  Vi  cup  finely  sliced  walnuts,  cut  in 
strips.  Bake  on  baking  sheet  at  450  degrees  6  minutes  or  until 
golden  brown. 

Ethel   Reid 


QUICK  AND  INEXPENSIVE  PANCAKE  SYRUP 

Add   2  cups  sugar  and    1    teaspoon   maple  flavoring   to    1    cup 
boiling  water. 

Mrs.  Don  Smith 


REFRIGERATOR  AMBROSIA  CAKE 

1    bakery  (A&P)  orange  chiffon  undrained 

cake  1    cup  heavy  cream 

1   pkg.  instant  coconut  pudding  1    medium  jar  maraschino 
1    large  can  crushed  pineapple,  cherries 

Cut  cake  to  make  three  layers. 

Prepare  pudding,  using  the  undrained  pineapple  for  the  liquid 
called  for  on  the  package.  Whip  cream  and  fold  into  pudding  mix- 
ture. Chop  cherries  and  add.  Use  to  fill  and  frost  cake.  Store  in  re- 
frigerator several  hours. 

Mrs.   Don  Smith 

-137- 


SNOW  BALLS 

1   cup  sugar  1  egg,  beaten 

V2  cup  margarine  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

1   cup  dates  (cut  up) 

Mix  together  in  a  saucepan  and  cook  about  10  minutes  over 
low  flame  stirring  constantly.  Cool  slightly.  Pour  over  2  cups  Rice 
Krispies  and  V2  cup  chopped  nuts  in  a  large  bowl.  Form  into  small 
balls  and  roll  in  fine  coconut.  Place  on  cookie  sheet  and  put  in  re- 
frigerator to  set  and  harden. 

Peggy   Dodd 


QUICK  BEEF  POT  PIE 

2  frozen  pie  shells  or  enough  1   to  II/2  cups  beef  gravy  or 

pastry  for  2  crusts  prepared  commercial   beef 

Left-over  beef  roast,  chopped  gravy  mix 

1    No.  3  can  mixed  vegetables 

Place  half  of  chopped  beef  in  unbaked  pie  crust.  Pour  half  of 
the  vegetables  on  top.  Add  remaining  beef  and  vegetables.  Sea- 
son with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  gravy  over  meat  and  vegetables. 
Cover  with  pastry.  Bake  at  375  degrees  until  golden  brown  (ap- 
proximately 40  minutes. 

Mrs.   Robert  Vooler 


FREEZING  CORN 

5  pints  corn  2  tsp.  salt 

4  tsp.  sugar  5  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Cover  corn,    boil    5    minutes,    stirring    occasionally.    Cool;    package; 
and  freeze. 

Mrs.   Robert  Tuttle 


-138- 


FRIEDLAND  COOK  BOOK  CORRECTION  SHEET 


The  errors  listed  below  appear  in  The  Friedland  Cook  Book 
Past  and  Present .  This  listing  is  made  for  you  to  make 
proper  corrections  in  your  book . 


Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 
Page 


Reference 

19  White  Cake  No.  1 
Mrs.  E.  M.  Hine,  Jr. 

20  Fruit  Cake  No.  2 
Mrs.  S.  C.  Rothrock 

22  Dark  Fruit  Cake 

Mrs.  Richard  H.  Reed 

28  Prune  Cake  No.  1 
Mrs .  Howard  Reid 

28  Prune  Cake  No.  3 
Mrs.  S.  C.  Rothrock 

32  Spice  Cake 

Mrs.  M.  N.  Rothrock 

33  Easter  Glory  Cake 
Mrs.  M.  N.  Rothrock 

39  Family  Pound  Cake 
Mrs .  Walter  Leary 

tO  White  Mountain  Cake 
Miss  Louise  Ebert 

68  Banana  Cream  Pie 
Mrs .  Clarence  Boyan 

69  Raisin  Spice  Filling 
Mrs.  E.  N.  Hine,  Jr. 

91  Party  Beverage 

Mrs.  G.  Ricks  Sink 

108  Black  Walnut  Prune  Cake 
Mrs .  Walter  Brothers ,  Sr . 

115  Cookie  Sheet  Cake 
Mrs.  Harvey  L.  Hines 

116  Chocolate  Delight  Cake 
Mrs.  Linda  K.  Jarvis 

119  Pie  Crust  Mix 


133  Blueberry  Delight 
Mrs.  Earl  Simmons 

133  Apricot  Jello  Salad 
Mrs.  James  S.  Martin 


Correction 

Correct  name:  "Mrs.  E.  N.  Hine,  Jr." 

Addition  word: 

"2  oz .   ginger  -  candied" 

Add  to  ingredients: 
"1  box  currants" 

Add  to  ingredients: 
"1  cup  prune  juice" 

Change  4  lbs.  Butter  to: 
H   Tblsp .Butter 

Delete  last  sentence  in  first  paragraph 

of  directions  which  reads  "Bake  in  375° 

oven." 

Change  name  to  read: 

"Mrs.  S.  C.  Rothrock" 

Amount  of  sugar  should  be 
12/3  cups. 

Change  to  2  cups  of  white  sugar,  not  3 
Add  to  ingredients :  "3_  eggs" 
Change  name  to:  "Miss  Hilda  Hine" 
Add  2  quarts  of  vanilla  ice  cream 


Omit:  Buttermilk  and  soda.  Flour 
should  be  2  cups  Self  Rising 

Change :  1  cup  Wesson  Oil  to 
1/2  cup  Wesson  Oil 

Add:   Bake  in  3  9"  Pans 


Add: 


Name  of  recipe  contributor  - 
"Mrs.  Donald  Stovall" 


Change  crushed  apple  to: 
crushed  Pineapple 

Add:      2   3oz.   boxes  of  Orange  Jello 


137  Quick  and  Easy  Tips   (first  tip)       Change  butter  to:      "Lard" 
Mrs.   Ruth  Hine 


138  Quick  Beef  Pot  Pie 

Mrs.   Robert  A.  Vogler 


Change  name  to:      Mrs.   Donald  Stovall 


Jjk#i^ 


iffimijHigianDjga 


Printed  by  Peak  Printing  Company,  Inc.,  Winston-Salem,  N.  C.  27107 


