’ 


. 


7 bd 
oe Sy ops wer & 
i RD en ns OD 
if 













CHEESE SAUCE ee a 

2 tablespoons butter her 

2 tablespoons flour 

“4 teaspoon dry mustard 

% teaspoon salt 

1 cup milk 

“4 cup grated Cheddar cheese “| 
Melt butter. Blend in flour, mus- 

tard and salt. Slowly stir in milk. 

Cook, stirring unti| Sauce smooths and 

thickens. Stir in grated Cheddar cheese. 


‘cup margarine (one.stick)., 
z oz. chocolate | 
8 eek 
> tsp. vanilla. i 
| es .1 box ‘sugar ee 
, i d chocolate 
> Melt margarine an 
together, add egg, sugar, len 
pave juice, vanilla. Add top m i 
enough to spread nicely 0 


ae Martin also has a sia: 






ry 
&, 
+ * 
7 > 


From North Carolina Kitchens 


FAVORITE RECIPES 
OLD AND NEW 


Compiled by 
The North Carolina Federation of Home 
Demonstration Clubs 





Published at North Carolina State College 
Raleigh, North Carolina 


oe Beene a Me * em ae rye 4 “ 
5 oe ag ae ee a 8 
“4 4 i AC aN i ERT ef A pas: . 
EA so 
SEE ER Te 9 EERO Nga a Main ae, 
4 Be ert a 


APPRECIATION 


The members of the Cook Book Committee of the North Caro- 
lina Federation of Home Demonstration Clubs express their ap- 
preciation to club members and their friends for their recipes; 
to the Home Demonstration Agents and to the District Agents 
who have advised and encouraged each person who contributed to 
the publishing of FROM NORTH CAROLINA KITCHENS, FAVORITE 
RECIPES OLD AND NEW. 

The Committee is grateful to Mrs. Rufus Rhyne, its chairman, 
who devoted a great deal of time in checking recipes and to Miss 
Jean Anderson for the very distinctive illustrations. We also wish 
to express appreciation to Miss Ruth Current, Miss Verna Stan- 
ton and Miss Virginia Wilson for their guidance in editing the 
cook book. 

There are two main reasons why the home demonstration 
women of North Carolina have published this unusual variety of 
recipes: First, to preserve recipes with historical significance 
which have interesting variations in terminology and cooking 
methods; and second, to assemble from the Tar Heel State a 
collection of those recipes, both old and new, which are favorites 
of club members, their friends and neighbors. 


Ng pone 


nat! NK 


pe FN, wm 
; ih 


TESTERS OF RECIPES 


Mrasopencer Adams .-....5).):.<05 0... j 

PemeniteA lien 360) fy calc ae aN Ne Berecrn Comey 
Micerean Anderson | 0000s the oe hee ee Iredell Cones 
BPO ANGIE Ohl a loo pbs he di bce Wa lc nas Forsyth Connity 
Meme: Bonnett: (oi eicah ode eu Rome ey: wal Sampson Geis 
Mrs. Lester Boger EE Ct anc itp, nL ar en Forsyth Counts 
DEMON ELIA GETS 5) ok 2d eh eee tee ha Northampton County 
RE Cee CR TOW TINE ote) bo he 2 ee er ee Durham County 
Perenehcces Burrus’... ee i ic a Se Dare County 
RMIT CLEP 1s Camere bl hiya tah eRe ae New Hanover County 
EEE ALIA SU SOU (oe. Ser 2) Ssh ts he anh Arc tl nee die Aenean Due eee ayia eee Nash County 
PMEDIE VEE UOW ION er. cM wes ccs ate a ais ea eRe bota ee BLS il Columbus County 
SIEIO NG HUtPCLLG. ©. ve ok ee le ee ee ee Northampton County 
OE eG LAE UME Uk RSI cE a a nr gis I Lag New Hanover County 
Desmmeura Garrett 7h! ooo bh? OSE, Ba CEL AUR Durham County 
coco URC SUE RNCINSS Spb GARR TR RI re URN RI y ne cao) P et a de Dare County 
PC EMEAVIER ES RELATTIS. ALPE kG. bes Neeh lads Bao eR Ee ke Iredell County 
PME COL IT EL OTITV tae) Og 98 seis sa SE = ee ears Durham County 
ere eoree Hip ngmith, ts. 2 al ardy Wie ho Ch ee Pender County 
EMC PO CLITA Tc ef bo bee ded Roa aa lara eerste Caan Rae Wilson County 
ee Ne FA ATIS ON Ih oy Beis Hoc sic poh ecansd hl oqeaky eanue tue oem cba lee Columbus County 
PME ET OUICP eee oe. gra cinta) Mer scant, ) ees Ne ae a eee Rutherford County 
MRT CLV OY I cle hea ary cic) day Wy whe eu Cc a cued ay Wayne County 
ESPNS SONGS Tg dope ace ood aed oe Re Leama ole Wane oe Forsyth County 
RUE LT A CD TIOUY: (0 le, ino win, Sede cos sine LISI tak eda a Lenoir County 
ery iT VV. KIALWeLSKY oe OE PORN aa Seon ees Pender County 
ee SO TH NTON hie oars seco esd te eae SR ee ea Carteret County 
erent eon TSN VILLE) ctl. coe EA AE pe ee ge Meche RE Forsyth County 
METS TOH NEG ECTIATY 0s 6. a oleh mes ah dunt fm ees Re A oa Durham County 
PoE RETEISOOL] © IVLEVY Aiki ht os a yee se & 3 vo ntl Seater = eee Ue ae Wayne County 
Ue EMME 1 ANTI TD os «oly Lo wp och ohel as oh os ee ee ot Sampson County 
Ck oo cS a Ne ca Bertie County 
UIE NOOTE 6. oa as = oo Reiger eet Iredell County 
eee MOLL AN |. dys, sthes Oh: set nd sm en eae Forsyth County 
WUE MUIGMP ETSI TOCT: , ... bse. 3 ek ak so ¥ + elk gheepeeo a late BS Durham County 
RINMTESM TORT Gt 8s And. dk opi cote Was apa mum rea Craven County 
hiremiitonert bruce Price ..).0. 6 20025 ae ee es Sampson County 
PPeMAPEE PTIGSON, IT we hcg oer ee pee pts po at se Pender County 
Mramea bert Proctor! 65h. 00 ROS) satee 5 oh GA, oA eR, Wilson County 
rate Prudent os. sll’) Rare le Dele 4 Oh ee alld aimee Bertie County 
area D aS ER ICO. boc ieccca oan =. so Rae ia gates ele en Beet ie Carteret County 
Merce a) wRobertson 06. oo el eae = ee seo eae Forsyth County 
Bie loo osenstock o.oo Pee den Oe Ses ome ae 5 mes comer Surry County 
ROT ST SCOLL cial. @ wos od ob onseeee sh secs (ore Carteret County 
Mirae Marvin AIMIth 0. be wo ipl ae Leh oie ban Samer See Wayne County 
AY Batcia Md Wood Bim Stary |< Rn at ee oa is eee ees acts Le Rutherford County 
RA VA lie SV ACHE ts scoala hc Lona ae. ahmed Salva ait renee eee Pender County 
Alte) Stephen iW AtSON oc. bine ee gee 4k ns ig hte te ra Wilson County 
WAPaPT GHIA LIS ws ch ceases, di oie etal ein oye ine beatae ie cn ie Lenoir County 
INTRO CEG LW CLIS hn ye vote dk Bee eo, dite oyna ct a eee acre Pender County 
Mireuds Roy Wilkerson , 06... fe eee ee ee ee Wilson County 
Mrs. Donald Witherington .........--:: essere ere r renee Craven County 


These recipes have been tested by home demonstration club 
members and friends of the North Carolina Federation of Home 


Demonstration Clubs. 


NCC 
Nel 


NORTH CAROLINA FEDERATION OF HOME 
DEMONSTRATION CLUBS’ COOK BOOK COMMITTEE 

Mrs. Rufus Rhyne, Chairman, Stokes County 
Mrs. Graham Sawyer, Camden County 
Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 
Mrs. D. C. Cole, Rutherford County 
Mrs. L. C. Deaton, Montgomery County 


Advisors 
Miss S. Virginia Wilson, Extension Nutritionist 
Miss Ruth Current, State Home Demonstration Agent 


Miss Verna Stanton, Asst. State Home Demonstration Agent 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Page 

MPRA OOS WWM n i tes ok, gal wk Ctr ft terete: ON dL Ra oy 7 
OSI dS A a Pa RS A AMC Si TRO Me ERG 13 
Beebe D UNS te ee te ce Act ON commen Ne Smee 29 
Bete sy LITEASIN GS wi ae g kn leet th Un ante) en Ree a Al 
CAEEHES SOMONE APT 5 eee nen eva arch RPEOnVIR Sen SECC, oonarenan ty Sutin | AT 
MOORE ON iec.5icl tage Rete) <del ee RMT A BES, Gln a AR 51 
MORO EAN OOS ee oe ou ha an gh a ees eg ae 61 
“ners 0 SECS Ss a a ae ORSON OR SURCAE RMN ot: 67 
priecsrond salad Dressings . ... 0.5 sec ssl een ae a 719 
mao and Other Desserts .::. .cio. tees ey 89 
PmMETIMLGASUPICS fe. oo so. es Se ee 105 
Me RRM ATICLOH POSEN O'S i she sod 3y Bh iia saa pee an nnd 127 
EOE soy aa celr he eis gto Re vo icow co wha: Oe ae cee ee 161 
(Chi its ane ee 9). nar eeenamer ma A ed Nay are ts HE ss. a 175 
reserves; Pickles and ReliShesiac) (ae ies anuee ins acer, 181 
SOM DSis goles eee! cea) cis ale St" Senn nee ghee eae rr 189 
195 


Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2021 with funding from 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 


https://archive.org/details/fromnorthcarolinOOunse 





CIDER PUNCH 


for 25 50 100 
Cider or Apple Juice 2 quarts 1 gallon 2 gallons 
3” sticks of cinnamon 2 4 8 
Whole cloves 12 24 2 teaspoons 
Pineapple juice 1 No. 2 can 1 quart 2 quarts 
Orange juice 6 cups 3 quarts 6 quarts 
Lemon juice 2 cups 1 quart 2 quarts 
Crushed pineapple 1 No. 2 can 1 No. 24% can 2 No. 2% cans 
Ginger ale 1% quarts 3 quarts 6 quarts 


Simmer 2 cups of the cider with spices in a saucepan about 15 
minutes. Cool and remove spices. Chill juices until icy cold. Com- 
bine ingredients. Pour into a punch bowl. Add a block of ice — 
for a fancy one, freeze water in a fluted gelatin mold. Garnish 
with thin slices of orange and maraschino cherry halves. 

Mrs. Dewitt Lee, Union County 


GRAPE JUICE LEMONADE 


Juice of 3 lemons 2 cups grape juice 

', cup sugar Enough ice water to make 1 quart 
Combine ingredients in the order given. Chill for 1% hr. Serve 

in each glass a thin slice of lemon from which the seeds have 

been removed. This quantity will serve 6 water glasses or 18 


punch glasses. Union County 


HOLIDAY PUNCH 


3 dozen oranges 6 cups sugar 
2 dozen lemons 2 quarts pineapple juice 
Y, pound pink dinner mints 


Dissolve mints in 1 quart hot water. Mix juice, sugar, and mint 
water. Then add enough cracked ice and water to make 8 gallons 


punch. Mrs. Cyrus McNeill, Harnett County 


7 





GRAPEFRUIT NOG 
214 cups grapefruit juice 1 tall can evaporated milk 
(1 No. 2 can) 2 cups cracked ice 
4, cup sugar 

Stir sugar into grapefruit juice. Pour the milk over the cracked 
ice. Stir in the grapefruit juice slowly to prevent curdling. Beat 
or shake until well chilled and foamy. Yield: 6 servings. Any 
fruit juice may be used. 

Mrs. George Fields, Jr., Perquimans County 


GOOD PUNCH FROM SOUTHERN MARYLAND 


Use iced tea as a base, add 1 qt. ginger-ale, 1 pt. grape juice. 
Then, pour over vanilla ice cream and raspberry ice. 
Catawba County 


HOT SPICED CIDER 


1 quart cider 8 short sticks cinnamon 
4, cup sugar 12 whole cloves 
% teaspoon salt 8 whole allspice 


Combine ingredients, heat to boiling, then cool and let stand 
a few hours for flavors to blend. Just before serving reheat and 


strain out spices. Transylvania County 


HOT SPICED TEA 


1 teaspoon whole cloves Juice of 3 oranges 
1 inch stick cinnamon Juice of 144 lemons 
3 quarts water 1 cup sugar 


214 tablespoons black tea 


Tie spices loosely in bag and bring to a boil in water. Add tea 
tied loosely in bag and allow to stand 5 minutes. Remove bags of 
spices and tea and add fruit juice and sugar. Serves 25. 

Mrs. N. W. Maness, Harnett County 


LEMONADE 


14% cups lemon juice 9 cups water 
2% cups sugar 


Mix and stir until well mixed. Serve with cracked ice. 
Variations: Use orange or grape juice. 


Mrs. George Champion, Harnett County | 


8 


HOT SPICED GRAPE JUICE 


1 quart water 3 cups orange juice 
4 cups or 2 pounds sugar 1 cup lemon juice 
2 cups shredded pineapple 3 quarts grape juice 


2 quarts strong tea 

Boil 1 quart water and sugar together for 1 minute. Cool and 
add pineapple, tea, orange juice, lemon juice, and grape juice. 
Garnish with orange and lemon slices and maraschino cherries if 
desired. Serves 50. This may be served hot or cold. 


Transylvania County 


ICE CREAM CHOCOLATE PUNCH 


4 squares chocolate 2 cups hot water 
', teaspoon salt 1'4 teaspoons vanilla 
2% quarts milk Whipped cream 
1 quart vanilla ice cream Red and green sugar 


', cup sugar 


Combine chocolate, sugar, salt, and water in the top of a double 
boiler placed directly over the heat. Bring to boil, stirring con- 
stantly. Stir over low heat for about 3 minutes. Place over hot 
water and add the milk gradually. When hot, beat with a rotary 
beater until smooth. Add vanilla. Chill and pour into a punch bowl. 
Add one-half the ice cream and stir until partially melted. 
Sweeten the whipped cream flavor with a little peppermint if 
desired. Place on top of the first mixture alternately with the 
remaining ice cream. Sprinkle the cream with colored sugar. (To 
make colored sugar, rub a little coloring into the granulated 


sugar.) 
Mrs. N. W. Maness, Harnett County 


MINT DELIGHT 


3 sprigs fresh mint 1 orange 

1 cup strong hot tea Y, cup crushed pineapple 
Y, cup sugar 1 cup grape juice 

1 lemon 2 cups water 


Mix sprigs of mint with the tea and sugar. Strain and cool in 
refrigerator. Mix juice of lemon and orange with pineapple. Add 
to grape juice and combine with tea base. Add water, chill 
thoroughly and decorate before serving with fruit slices and 


remaining mint. 
Mrs. N. W. Maness, Harnett County 


9 


INDIAN PUNCH 


A delicious and inexpensive punch and favorite of Haywood 
County Club women. 


2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 quart water 1 teaspoon almond extract 
Grated rind of 3 lemons 1 large can pineapple juice 
Juice of 3 lemons 1 quart ginger ale 


2 cups strong tea 


Mix together sugar, water, and lemon rind. Boil for 5 minutes. 
Let cool. Then add iemon juice, tea, vanilla, almond extract, and 
pineapple juice. When ready to serve add ginger ale. 

Mrs. Will Ratcliffe, Haywood County 


PARTY COFFEE 


Place one pound all-purpose grind in muslin bag large enough 
to hold twice that amount. Drop into large kettle containing two 
gallons of boiling water. Cover tightly. Reduce heat and let stand 
6 to 10 minutes. Lift coffee bag up and down several times to 
extract the full flavor of coffee. Remove bag and keep hot until 


serving time. Serves 40. Harnett County 


PUNCH 
Juice of 6 oranges 1 cup water 
Juice of 6 lemons 1 quart ginger ale 


1 cup sugar 


Heat water and sugar until sugar is dissolved. Mix with juices 
and chill. When ready to serve, add ginger ale. 
Harnett County 


FRUIT PUNCH 


3 cups tea 1 cup pineapple juice 
14 cups sugar 1 cup blackberry juice 

3 cups water 1 cup raspberry juice 

2 cups grape juice Juice of 6 lemons 

5 cups ice water Juice of 4 oranges 


Make a syrup by combining water and sugar. Boil 5 minutes. 
Cool. Combine tea, syrup, fruit juices and ice water. Pour over 
ice and garnish with mint leaves and slices of oranges and lemon. 
30 servings. 


Mrs. Albert Medlin, Jr., Union County 


10 


PUNCH RECIPE 


When dietitian at the Chapel Hill School, I was frequently 
called on to serve refreshments to the P. T. A. and other groups. 
My favorite punch recipe is the one I used and it won many 
compliments. I am still using it whenever the event calls for 
punch. 


1 cup strong tea 1 pint grape juice 
Juice of 12 oranges 1 No. 2 can crushed pineapple 
Juice of 12 lemons 1 small bottle cherries 


1 pint ginger ale 


Boil 5 quarts water with 3 cups sugar for 8 minutes. Chill. Then 
add the above juices and fruit. Just before serving, add 1 pint of 
ginger ale. If a larger quantity is desired, add grape soda, ginger 
ale and orange par-t-pak just before serving. 

Mrs. Paul Long, Orange County 


TEA AND FRUIT PUNCH 


2 tablespoons tea 3 oranges 

2 cups sugar 4 cups ginger ale 

Y, cup orange juice 2 cups water 

4 lemons 6 maraschino cherries 


Boil the water. Add the tea and sugar, and let stand for one- 
half minute; then strain. Add the orange juice and the juice of 
the lemons. Add the oranges thinly sliced, the cherries cut in 4 
parts, and the ginger ale. Pour this over 8 cups or 2 quarts of 


cracked ice in a punch bowl. 
Mrs. Kathleen J. Eakins, Pender County 


RUSSIAN TEA 


1144 cups sugar Juice of 1 lemon 


Rind of 1 orange Juice of 4 oranges 
5 cups water 114 tablespoons tea 
8 whole cloves 8 cups boiling water 


Boil together for 5 minutes sugar, one orange rind, and water. 
Strain and cool. Place the tea leaves in an enamel pot and pour 
over them the 8 cups of freshly boiling water. Steep 3 minutes. 
Strain. Mix the tea, syrup and fruit juices. Keep hot until ready 


to serve. Do not boil. Serves 25. 
Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


11 


SUMMER DELIGHT 


This recipe was a favorite of Miss Addie Houston, Guilford 
County Home Demonstration Agent, 1922-1943. 


2 tablespoons tea 1144 cups grape juice 
3 cups boiling water 144 cups spiced syrup 
Y, cup lemon juice Fresh mint 


Steep tea in water. Add lemon juice and grape juice. 


SPICED SYRUP 


2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 
1 cup water 4 teaspoon cinnamon 


Boil for five minutes sugar, water, cloves, and cinnamon. 
Strain. Add to the tea mixture. Add fresh mint and serve. 
Guilford County Council. 


12 





REA = 


85 OS a* 





CLABBER CAKES (Pancakes) 


1 pint flour Salteratus (soda) 
1 pint clabber 1 teaspoon salt 
1 small heaping teaspoon 


Mix in order given. Grease pan with 1 teaspoon butter before 


h ing. 
each cooking Mrs. Hugh B. Bryan, Edgecombe County 


CRACKLING CORN BREAD 


1 cup cracklings, diced Y, teaspoon soda 

1 cup sour milk 4 teaspoon salt 

2 cups corn meal 

Cracklings are the pieces of meat remaining after the lard has 
been rendered from the pork. Mix and sift together the dry 
ingredients. Add the milk, stir in cracklings. Form into oblong 
cakes and place in greased baking pan. Bake in hot oven (400°F.) 


30 minutes. Mrs. N. V. Daniel, Granville County 


CRACKLING CORN BREAD 


Break 1 cup of cracklings, put them in 2 cups hot water. Add 
4 cups meal, 1 tablespoon salt, 14 teaspoon baking powder, 114 


cups buttermilk. Mix thoroughly. Bake slowly until done. 
Mrs. Annie Kate Trawick, Stokes County 


EGG CORN BREAD 


1 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon soda 
1 tablespoon melted lard 


14 pints meal 
1 pint sour milk 
2 eggs—well beaten 


Mix dry ingredients. Add milk in which soda has been dissolved. 


Add melted lard. Pour in well greased pan and bake quickly. 
Mrs. W. A. McGlamery, Clay County 


13 


HOT CORN CAKES 


Seald: 2 cups corn meal with 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon sugar 
Add: 1 cup evaporated milk 1 egg 
1 cup flour 2 tablespoons melted shortening 


2 teaspoons baking powder 


Mix and cook on hot griddle. Add 1 teaspoon fat to the hot 
griddle before each batch of cakes. Delicious with fish. 
Odessa Wasili, Currituck County 


PONE BREAD 


As far back as the oldest Hatteras resident can remember, pone 
bread has been considered a treat. It was first cooked in fire- 
places, in iron pots, with hot coals on the lids, and later, in modern 
ovens. No camp meeting was complete without several of these, 
and not many Sundays passed without each home having a pone 
bread, cooked the day before. This bread packs well and keeps 
for a week or more (if well hid). Most families have passed 
their own recipes down to their daughters, and some vary in the 
amount of sugar and shortening used, and the size of the pan, to 
regulate the thickness. In the days before freezer lockers and 
short hunting seasons, all the thrifty islanders had a barrel of 
salted wild fowl, which made an excellent stew, and its gravy 
was enjoyed over the pone bread. Any gravy is good with it, 
however. 


3 cups meal 22 cup sugar 

5 cups boiling water (1 more 2 tablespoons molasses 
may be needed, if too thick) 22 cup flour 

27, cup cold water 2 tablespoons shortening 


1 teaspoon salt 


Scald meal with boiling water, in deep mixing bowl. Stir well 
and add salt, sugar, molasses and cold water. Blend in flour, mix 
well, cover and let stand at room temperature from 10 to 12 
hours (overnight, or all day). In a dutch oven, a 3 at. iron, pyrex, 
or other heavy baking pan, melt the shortening and pour in the | 
batter. Bake two hours in a 375°F. oven. Turn to 300°F. and con- 
tinue to bake another hour, with lid on pan. If oven is not needed, 
turn it off and leave covered pan in an hour or more longer. Can 
be cooled outside, still covered, but some claim it’s not as good. 
This is delicious with any roast and gravy, sliced and served cold. 

Mrs. Rebecca Burrus, Dare County 


14 


GRANDMOTHER’S CORN BREAD 
(For Breakfast) 


14% cups corn meal Y, cup flour 
1 level teaspoon salt Y, teaspoon baking powder 
4, teaspoon soda 1 cup water and buttermilk 
1 tablespoon melted butter Chalf and half) 


(or other table fat) 


Mix all ingredients. Have large iron skillet hot and well greased 
when dough is put in. Cook on top of stove “medium heat to hot” 
until well brown on bottom. Turn and brown other side. Serve hot 
with butter and sweet milk or coffee. To turn bread run a thin 
knife or spatula under crust to loosen well, then slide out on a 
plate and convert plate upside down on skillet. 

Wilkes County 


PONE CORN BREAD 


This 100 year old recipe was given to Mrs. Willey by Mrs. 
Pearl Lyons. She used to cook her pones in a covered spider in 
fireplace with hot coals on top until good and brown. 


Sift: 1 quart corn meal spoon) and salt measured in 
Add: pinch of soda (1 teaspoon) palm of hand (1 teaspoon) 
Pinch of baking powder (1 tea- 


Mix with buttermilk until soft enough to shape into pones. 
Brown quickly on griddle then place in medium hot oven and 


bake 30 minutes. 
Mrs. F. C. Willey, Gates County 


OLD PLANTATION STYLE JONNIE CAKE 


Sift one quart of corn meal into a pan; make a hole in the 
middle and pour in a pint of warm water, adding one teaspoon- 
ful of salt; with a spoon mix the meal and water gradually into 
a soft dough; stir it very briskly for a quarter of an hour or 
more till it becomes light and spongy, then spread the dough 
smoothly and evenly on a straight flat board (a piece of the head 
of a flour barrel will serve for this purpose) Place the board 
nearly upright before an open fire and put an iron against the 
back to support it; bake it well; when done cut it in squares; 
send it hot to table, split and buttered. 

Mrs. Etta Brookshire, Buncombe County 


15 


CORN MUFFINS 


This is a recipe that has been handed down for many years 
in the Chatham family. The recipe was given to Mrs. Ketchie 
by her mother, the former Ida Chatham of Elkin. It has been 
a favorite within the family for many years. 


1 cup meal 1 teaspoon salt 

Y% cup flour 1 teaspoon sugar 

1 egg 1 cup sweet cream or enough to 
1 teaspoon baking powder make batter 


This makes six muffins. Double recipe for more. 
Mrs. Frank Ketchie, Iredell County 


CUSH 


Crumble corn bread and biscuits one part each and 1 cup of cut 
up onions. 
Fry in fried meat grease stirring often while frying. Serve 


hot. Mrs. Jim Bell, Cabarrus County 


TAR HEEL HUSH PUPPIES 


The recipe for Tar Heel Hush Puppies is the one used at the 
Sanitary Fish Market in Morehead City, and the recipe for 
which “Tony” Seamon is famous. 


1 pound fine corn meal 1 tablespoon sugar 
1 egg Pinch of soda 
1 tablespoon salt 1 cup buttermilk 


Mix all ingredients, adding water last to make batter a thick 


consistency. Drop into fat. Cook at 375°F. until golden brown. 


S 
(Serves 6) Mrs. J. L. Seamon, Carteret County 


HUSH PUPPIES 


I don’t know just how old this recipe is, but it is real old. It 
is a favorite of my family. 


1 egg thoroughly beaten 1 teaspoon baking powder 
Y% cup plain flour Y, cup sugar 
Pinch salt 1¥, cups corn meal 


Mix all ingredients with enough water to mix well, and not 
be too thin. Shape in small rolls. Fry in hot deep fat. 
Mrs. A. M. Whitehead, Wilson County 


16 


LYE HOMINY 


Take about a gallon of corn and four or five cups of wood 
ashes and boil until hulls and eyes wil! slip off. Wash in cold 
water until eyes, hulls and ashes are removed. Boil until tender, 
wash again and store again until ready for use. (2 oz. of con- 
centrated lye in 1 gallon of boiling water was substituted for 
ashes when lye was obtainable and could be spared from soap 
making). This was made by slave cooks and served with butter 
or meat drippings. 

Mrs. Jim R. Bell, Cabarrus County 


HUSH PUPPIES 


Y, cup sifted all-purpose flour 1 small onion, finely chopped 
2 teaspoons baking powder (optional) 

1 tablespoon sugar 1 beaten egg 

Y, teaspoon salt 34 cup milk 


1% cups enriched corn meal 


Sift together dry ingredients. Add onion. Add beaten egg and 
milk to dry ingredients, stirring lightly. Drop a teaspoon of 
batter for each hush puppy into hot deep fat (860°F.) frying 
only a few at a time. Fry until brown. Drain on absorbent paper. 
Makes about 2 dozen hush puppies. 

Mrs. George Frazier, Granville County 
Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. J. H. Honeycutt, Pender County 


ROLLS 
2 cups boiling water 1 teaspoon sugar 
Y, cup lard 2 teaspoons salt 
¥, cup sugar 2 yeast cakes 
2 eggs 8-9 cups flour 


Y, cup lukewarm water 


Mix boiling water, sugar and lard together; set that aside 
and let it get lukewarm. Take half cup lukewarm water and 
melt yeast cakes, 2 teaspoons salt and 1 teaspoon sugar. After 
first mixture cools, blend both mixtures together, then beat 
eggs and add. Then add flour. After mixing well, place in re- 
frigerator and let stand for several hours. Take out desired 
amount of dough, make out rolls and let stand out of refrigerator 


for several hours before cooking. 
Mrs. Clyde Hurdle, Person County 


17 


FASTNACHTS 
(Fosnoxs) 


This recipe dates back four generations to Civil War days. It 
was always made and served on Shrove Tuesday in our family. 
Tradition was that this was manditory if one wished to have 
success growing cabbage that year. Also some must be fed 
the hens to assure heavy laying that year. At our house the hens 
was fed only in token portions. 


1 package yeast 14% cups milk 
Y, cup shortening ‘ Y, cup sugar 
Y, teaspoon salt Enough flour to make soft dough 


1 egg, beaten 


Seald milk. When cool, add yeast, shortening, sugar, salt, 
egg and flour. Mix well until light and smooth. Put in warm 
place and let rise until double in bulk. Roll out into six inch 
circles as for pastry shell. Slash with knife, into 34, inch strips 
to within 34 inch of circles edge. Pick up first strip and loop 
second through first - continue across circle. Let rise again on 
clean cloth until double in size. Fry in deep fat until golden 
brown. Drain on paper. Fastnachts are delicious served hot 
with fruit preserve and coffee or with a salad course. 

Mrs. Ira Lefler, Stanly County 


PEANUT ICE-BOX ROLLS 


1 yeast cake 14% teaspoon salt 

Y cup lukewarm water 3 cups sifted flour 

4 cup sugar 1 egg unbeaten 

Y, cup boiling water 1 cup finely ground peanuts 


, cup soft lard 


Soften yeast cake in lukewarm water. Mix lard and sugar 
together in mixing bowl. Add boiling water and mix well. Stir 
in softened yeast. Add salt to flour. Stir in half of flour and 
beat well with spoon. Add egg and beat to mix well. Add rest of 
flour and mix. Cover bowl with waxed paper and put right in 
refrigerator. To make: Remove dough from refrigerator and 
fold in freshly parched, ground peanuts. Let rise until double 
in bulk. Punch down. Mold into any desired shape. Place in 
greased pans and let rise until double in bulk. Bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven (425° F.) 15 to 20 minutes. Yield: 114 doz. rolls. 


Mrs. Fred L. Johnson, Northampton County 


18 


“OLD-TIME LIGHTEN’ CORNBREAD” 


Re cups meal 1 level teaspoon salt 
Yy yeast cake 2 cups warm water 


. Dissolve yeast in 1 cup warm water. Use enough warm water 
In mixing the batter to make it thin. After all ingredients have 
been mixed well, pour into well-greased pan and let stand four 
hours in a moderately warm place. Then bake in a hot oven. 
Mrs. Lydia Wade, Carteret County 


OLD-FASHIONED LIGHT BREAD 


I’m fifty-three years old and as far back as I can remember both 
my grandmothers made this bread. If a neighbor was sick I 
knew a pone of this bread would be baked and sent to the sick 
person. It would keep several days. 

When I asked grandmother Clayton who taught her to make 
the bread she said, “My mother taught me and for generations 
back each mother showed her daughters how to make this very 
bread.” 

I asked grandmother Evans and she said, “Law, Honey, your 
great, great, great grandmother came from Holland; she taught 
her daughter and it was handed down from generation to gen- 
eration. 

This bread was cooked in a skillet on the hearth by old women. 

Pour into a tin bucket three coffee cups of fresh sweet milk, 
pour over this 3 coffee cups boiling water. Add one large spoon 
yellow sugar or good molasses, one tablespoon salt, two table- 
spoons corn meal, enough flour to make a thin batter.* 

Be sure the milk and water have cooled to lukewarm before 
adding flour or it will lump. 

Pour out one half the milk and water, make a thick batter, 
add other half of milk and water. Mixed this way you have a 
smooth thin batter. Place in a pail of warm water, stirring sev- 
eral times before it starts to rise, must be kept a little more 
than milk warm until it rises one half its original height. Add 
a little piece of lard and make into a dough about like biscuit 
dough. Put in pans in 3 loaves. The heat should be just warm 
enough to bear the hand on. Keep this heat till it has risen as 
high as you want it. Bake. 

Mrs. Clyde Hurdle, Person County 


* A mixing bowl and white sugar may be used. 


19 


QUICK HOT ROLLS 


1 package yeast 1 cup lukewarm water 
2 cups flour 1 teaspoon salt 
3 teaspoons sugar 2 teaspoons melted butter 


Dissolve yeast in water. Sift flour, salt and sugar together 
and stir in yeast mixture. Add melted butter. Knead lightly in 
dough pan with just enough flour to make the soft dough so it 
can be handled. Let stand 15 minutes in warm temperature 
about 75 to 80° F. Turn out on floured board, knead lightly, roll 
to 14 inch thickness, cut with biscuit cutter and place on well 
greased baking sheet. Butter lightly and let rise one hour in 
warm temperature. Bake in hot oven until brown. 

Mrs. F. C. Anthony, Wilkes County 


OLD-FASHIONED CORN LIGHT BREAD 


One quart of water in a pot, let come to a boil; add one tea- 
spoon salt, stir in corn meal to make a thick mush. Add enough 
cold water to make it lukewarm, stir in meal to make a thick 
batter, cover and set by fire to keep warm; let rise twice and 
stir down, have the oven hot; when it rises third time, put in 
oven and bake quickly. 

Mrs. W. A. McGlamery, Clay County 


SALT RISING BREAD 


In the evening, take a pint of milk and heat almost to the 
boiling point. Into this put one handful (14, cup) each of meal 
and flour. Add a teaspoon of sugar, a pinch of soda, and a pinch of 
salt (1/8) teaspoon. Put into this seven white beans, let rise 
overnight in a warm place. 

In the morning, take out the beans, add enough flour to make 
it thick, having warmed the flour and yeast. Set in a warm 
place to rise. After it has risen (and smells ruined - the worse 
it smells the better the yeast), mix with two quarts of flour, 
three tablespoons of sugar, 2 tablespoons of lard, 4 teaspoons — 
of salt, and enough warm water to make a soft sponge. Make 
into loaves. Keep covered in a warm place and let rise to about 
twice its size. Bake in a moderate oven. 

The seven white beans are not a hoax, as you might think, 
but are to make the bread rise, not sink. 

Mrs. J. E. Gentry, Ashe County 


20 


OLD-FASHIONED SALT RISING BREAD 


1 cup milk 2 tablespoons sugar 
114 teaspoons salt 1% cup white corn meal 
1 cup lukewarm water 2 tablespoons melted shortening 


5144 cups sifted flour 


Scald milk. Remove from heat and stir in 1 tablespoon sugar, 
salt, and corn meal. Turn into two quart jar or pitcher. Cover 
and set in pan of water hot to the hand (120° F.) Let stand in 
warm place six to seven hours or until it ferments. When gas 
escapes freely, stir in lukewarm water (100° F.), remaining 1 
tablespoon sugar, shortening, 2 cups flour and beat thoroughly. 
Return jar to hot water bath (115° F) and let rise until sponge 
is very light and full of bubbles. Turn sponge into warm large 
mixing bowl: gradually stir in remaining 214 cups flour, or just 
enough to make a stiff dough, or until smooth. Divide into half, 
shape into loaves and place in greased bread pans. Brush with 
melted fat, cover and let rise in warm place until 214 times its 
regular bulk. Bake in 375° F. oven for ten minutes, lower to 
350° F. and bake 25 minutes longer. 

The sponge and dough require a higher temperature (115° F.) 
than yeast mixture. The starter should be kept at a constant 
temperature for an active mixture. The homemade salt rising 
bread is not as light as yeast bread. It is moist and crumbly. 

Mrs. D. V. Andrew, Alamance County 


COLONIAL SALT RISING BREAD 


I 
Starter of yeast 4 tablespoons corn meal 
4 small Irish potatoes 1 heaping teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons sugar 1 quart boiling water 


Peel and slice potatoes very thin. Put into vessel and pour 
boiling water over them. Add salt, sugar, and meal. Into a larger 
vessel, put tepid water and put vessel containing yeast starter 
into this. Let stand in well protected place for 24 hours. 


II 
2 cups warm milk 4, teaspoon soda 
Flour 
Strain yeast and add to it the milk, soda, and gradually enough 
flour to make a stiff sponge. Let rise until light, about 2 hours. 
Again set vessel in another pan of warm water and keep out of 
drafts until light. 


21 


it 


1 quart flour 1 cup lard 
2 teaspoons salt 


Sift flour and salt and mix thoroughly with the lard. Add to the 
sponge making a soft dough (a little more flour may be needed). 
Knead just enough to handle and work fast to avoid chilling. 
Put into greased pans, filling half full. Let rise again until 
double in size and bake at 850° F. about 45—60 minutes. This 
bread should never be allowed to get cold, nor in the last rising 
should it be allowed to be too warm. 

Mrs. B. E. Warner, Cherokee County 


SALT RISING BREAD 


1, cup corn meal 21% cups flour 
1% cups scalded milk 2 tablespoons butter 
14 teaspoons salt 1 tablespoon sugar 


Scald the meal and 14 teaspoon salt with 14 cup milk. Let 
stand in warm place overnight. In the morning set this bowl 
of mixture in water just as warm as your hand can stand it. 
Keep at this temperature during whole process. When light 
add the cup of milk and 1 cup water boiled and cooled to about 
98° F. with butter and sugar dissolved in it. Slowly add 214 cups 
flour, heating thoroughly. Again set in warm water until light. 
Then add flour to make stiff dough. Knead well. Put directly 
into pans and when light again, bake. 

Mrs. Jake Lassiter, Wilson County 


SOUTHERN STYLE SPOON BREAD 


This recipe was handed down in President William Henry 
Harrison’s family from Colonial days. His descendants gave me 
the recipe while I was teaching in Prince George, Va. 


1 cup corn meal, unsifted 1 tablespoon sugar 
4 tablespoons butter 3 cups boiling water 
1 teaspoon salt 3 eggs 


Mix all dry ingredients and butter thoroughly, add water 
gradually until a thick pasty dough has been formed, then add 
stiffly beaten eggs. Bake in slow (375° F.) oven until done. 
Serve hot with butter. 

Mrs. Waverly Parker, Gates County 


22 


SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD 


This recipe is from the kitchen of Mrs. James L. Houser, who 
lives on the Green River Plantation, which is located in both 
Rutherford and Polk Counties. 

Green River House was built in 1804, and the brick used in 
it was brought from Charleston, South Carolina, by wagons 
and was built by the slaves. 

During the war between the states, Northern soldiers, on 
their march through the South, stabled their horses in the 
drawing room of the Green River House, where the hoof prints 
are still visible. 

This recipe was used extensively at the Green River House 
and was given to me by one of the old cooks who used it quite 
often. 


14% cups corn meal 4 teaspoon salt 
2 cups boiling water 2 tablespoons melted butter 
2 cups sweet milk 3 eggs 


2 teaspoons baking powder 


Sift and measure meal and baking powder. Pour over it the 
two cups of boiling water, stirring to keep from lumping. Add 
butter, salt, and the egg yolks, beaten slightly before adding. 
Add the milk gradually. Beat the whites of the eggs until stiff, 
folding them in last. Pour in a well greased casserole and bake 
in a moderate oven, 350 to 375° F. 40 minutes. 

Mrs. J. L. Houser, Polk County 


SNOW BISCUITS 


2 cups sifted flour 144 teaspoons sugar 
Y, teaspoon salt 1 cake yeast 
1, cup lukewarm water 1 tablespoon melted shortening 


Sift together flour, sugar, and salt. Dissolve yeast in luke- 
warm water. Add to dry ingredients. Add melted shortening. 
Dough will be soft. Turn out on floured board and knead dough 
quickly and lightly until smooth and elastic. Roll out 14 inch 
thick. Cut with floured biscuit cutter. Place on greased pan. Let 
rise until doubled in bulk about 14 hour. Prick top with fork. 
Bake in hot oven at 425° F. about 20 minutes. Makes 16 two 
inch biscuits. Serve hot with homemade jam, jelly, or preserves 
for a supper dessert treat. 

Mrs. Louise Barber, Onslow County 


23 


SPOON BREAD 


1 cup corn meal 3 eggs 
2 cups cold water 2 tablespoons butter 
1 cup sweet milk 1 teaspoon salt 


Mix meal and water and cook 5 minutes stirring all the time. 
Add the well beaten eggs, melted butter and milk to meal mix- 
ture. Mix well and bake at once in moderate oven until brown. 

Mrs. J. L. Pearce, Wake County 


SOUTHERN SPOON BREAD 


1 cup corn meal 2 teaspoons baking powder 
Y, cup butter 2 cups sweet milk 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 


2 cups boiling water 


Method: Pour boiling water over meal. Boil slowly about three 
minutes. Stir constantly. Add butter. Cool. Add milk, salt and 
beaten egg yolks. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Add baking 
powder last. Pour into well greased baking dish. Bake in 425° F. 
oven for 45 minutes or until firm. Serve immediately. 

Mrs. J. Emmett Winslow, Perquimans County 


APPLE BREAD 


This recipe was used by my grandmother. I have never known 
anyone to use it other than our immediate family. 


3 cups mellow apples Y, teaspoon salt 
1144 cups sugar 34 cup water 
1 cup meal 3 tablespoons shortening 


Add sugar to apples, then add meal. Work in salt and water. 
Add shortening. Cook in cake pan (714 x 1114) about 45 min- 
utes at 400° F. or less. Cut in squares and serve. 

Canned apples may be used. 

Mrs. T. T. Stephenson, Northampton County 


BATTER BREAD 


Add two well beaten eggs to one and three fourths cup cold 
cooked fine hominy (grits). Add two and one half cups of sweet 
milk, then add one cup sifted meal with one teaspoonful salt 
and tablespoon melted butter. (I add two teaspoons of baking 
powder). Beat thoroughly, bake in well buttered baking dish 


24 


for forty minutes in hot oven. I bake about one hour in medium 
oven. I save left over hominy until I have enough for batter bread. 
Bess 8S. Butler, Cherokee County 


BEATEN BISCUITS 


These delicious little biscuits, as they were made only in the 
South, are today almost a lost home art. Rightly made, they 
are the daintiest, most delicious of tiny, smooth, satiny biscuits 
served cold, never hot - with salads perfect. 

Originally in old days of South they were made by two 
methods. Almost every family had a regular beaten biscuit 
machine, consisting of a marble slab with a double roller and a 
handle to turn - dough put through roller time and time again 
until it blistered and popped and was as smooth as satin. Then 
there was a special cutter, small with stickers in center. 

The second method, the dough was placed on a wooden meat 
block and the old mammy, with a wooden rolling pin, gave the 
dough 100 strokes for everyday biscuits - many more for extra 
nice company. 

Few machines still to be found in the South - a treasure when 
found. 

4 cups flour 34 cup ice water or sweet milk 

1 teaspoon salt to make a very, very stiff dough 

5 tablespoons fat 


Make a stiff dough, knead until smooth, then pound until 
white and full of air bubbles. Roll, cut with a small cutter, prick 
with a fork, and place in the pan so they will not touch. Leave 
the oven shut five minutes when first put in, to give the biscuit 
a chance to rise and crack around the sides. Bake in a hot oven 
until thoroughly done. The constant pounding not only dis- 
tributes the air in small bubbles throughout the dough, but it 
whitens the gluten and makes it crisp instead of spongy. 

Mrs. John E. Williams, Rutherford County 


BEATEN BISCUITS 


1 quart flour—after sifted 7% cup water and milk mixed 
4 tablespoons lard 1 teaspoon salt 


Run through a beaten biscuit machine until dough blisters. 
Then roll to a thickness of a handle of a knife; and cut with 


small cutter. Mrs. J. W. McLauchlin, Hoke County 


25 


BUTTERMILK BISCUITS 


2 cups mixed flour A pinch of soda if milk is very 
2 tablespoons fat sour 
34 cup of buttermilk 


Cut the fat in the flour and mix quickly with the milk to form 
a soft dough. Turn out on a floured board or waxed paper. Knead 
lightly for a few seconds. Roll to 14, inch thickness. Cut with a 
floured biscuit cutter. Place in a pan and bake in a hot oven 
450° F. for about 7 minutes. Turn on broil for a minute or until 
a golden brown, depending on your oven. Makes 24 small bis- 


cuits. Mrs. Shephen Watson, Wilson County 


BUTTERMILK BREAD 


One pint of buttermilk heated to scalding point, stir into it 
while hot, a tablespoon of white sugar and enough flour to make 
a stiff batter. Let it stand overnight in a warm place. In the 
morning, stir into the batter or sponge a teaspoon of soda dis- 
solved in warm water, a little salt and two tablespoon of melted 
butter; work in enough flour to enable the dough to be easily 
worked, knead well, make into loaves, let rise till light, and 


then bake. 
Mrs. W. A. McGlamery, Clay County 
NUT BREAD 
1 cup light brown sugar 1 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs, beaten 1 cup sweet milk 
3 cups sifted flour 1 cup chopped nuts 


3 teaspoons baking powder 


Alternate dry ingredients with milk and add to eggs and 
sugar. Cook at 350° F. about 30 to 45 minutes. 
Martha Crowell, Granville County 


“SHORT’NIN’ BREAD” 
4 cups flour 1 cup light brown sugar 


1 pound butter 


Mix flour and sugar and work in the butter. Place on floured 
surface and pat to 14 inch thickness. Cut round and bake in 
moderate oven 20 to 25 minutes. 


Mrs. Hazel Jackson Bell, Cabarrus County 


26 


NUT BREAD 


3 cups sifted flour 2 eggs well beaten 
4Y, teaspoons baking powder 1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon salt Y, cup shortening 


1 cup chopped nuts 


Mix and sift dry ingredients, stir in nuts. Combine eggs, milk 
and add to flour mixture, stirring only until well mixed. Add 
shortening. Turn into greased loaf pan and bake in moderate 
oven, 350° F. for one hour. 

Mrs. Jacques Busbee, Moore County 


SWEET POTATO BREAD 


This recipe is from the kitchen of Mrs. Bell Matthews. It 
was used for many years by her father’s family, Mr. E. H. 
Dixion. It was used as a dessert for the slaves on the Dixion 
plantation. 


4 medium potatoes 4 cup milk 

1 teaspoon vanilla 3 tablespoons flour 
34 cup sugar Y% pound butter 

1 egg 1 teaspoon allspice 


Mash potatoes very well. Add sugar, butter, vanilla, allspice, 
flour, milk and a well-beaten egg and mix thoroughly. Pat into 
pan and bake. When cooked cut into squares and serve. 

Mrs. Sherrill Jackson, Johnston County 


SWEET POTATO PONE 


This recipe for sweet potato pone was handed down from my 
grandmother. She used it during the Civil War and probably 
before when food, which was not produced in this section, had 
to come by way of sail boats; and very often such foods as had 
to be imported that way were scarce. She especially liked this 
as it is quite delicious without any sugar, even though to add 
sugar makes it more tasty. 

Y, cup sugar 1 tablespoon allspice 

1 egg Salt to taste 

4 level tablespoons butter 

Mix and pour into greased baking dish. Bake in a very slow 
oven until very brown. Serve hot or cold. For a dessert low in 


calories, omit all but grated potato, salt and allspice. It is still 
delicious. Mrs. W. B. Craven, Columbus County 


27 


YAM BUNS 


VY, cake of compressed yeast Y, cup scalded milk 

Y, cup lukewarm water 34 cup cold, mashed sweet 

2 tablespoons butter or margarine potatoes 

4 cup sugar 2%, cups of sifted all-purpose flour 


1 teaspoon salt 


Soften yeast in water. Add butter, sugar, and salt to milk, 
and stir until dissolved, cool to lukewarm. Stir in potatoes and 
dissolve yeast. Add flour to make a stiff dough. Turn out on 
lightly floured board and knead until smooth. Place in a greased 
bowl, brush with melted shortening, cover and let rise in a 
warm place until double in bulk (about 2 hours), punch dough 
down and shape into round rolls or any desired shape. Place on 
greased baking sheet. Cover with a cloth and let rise until 
double in bulk (about 1 hour). Brush top with melted shortening 
and bake in moderately hot oven (400° F.), about 25 minutes 
until browned. While hot, frost top with confectioners icing. 

Mrs. J. G. Inman, Columbus County 


28 


S 


<a 
os M el 
voblinge PEST 


BAKED LIVER—1871 


This recipe was used by my mother and passed on to me. 








2 pounds calf’s liver in one thick 1 medium sized onion sliced 
piece 1/6 teaspoon pepper 

4 slices fat salt pork 2, teaspoon salt 

1 tablespoon flour Y, cup stewed tomatoes 


Lay pork strips in slits cut in liver. Place onion in baking dish, 
place liver on it, sprinkle with salt, pepper and flour mixture, 
and pour tomatoes over. Bake in oven at 350° F. until tender. 


Mrs. Nan K. Sloop, Rowan County 


BEEF HASH 


Take left over roast beef and cut in small pieces. Cut up a 
large onion and add to beef with a little of the broth. Season 
with salt and pepper and simmer for a few minutes. Good on 
toast or with hot biscuit. 

Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


RAVIOLI 
1—4 or 5 pound chicken (boiled) Y% pound of butter 
1 pound pork (fried or baked) A little spinach 
1 pound veal (fried or baked) Bread sticks or cracker crumbs 
4, pound imported Swiss cheese, enough to hold together 
(can be substituted with other Add parsley, celery, salt and 
kind of cheese) pepper to taste, other ingredi- 
1 dozen eggs ents if desired 


The above mixture is for inside of Ravioli which is ground 
and made into small balls. 

The following pastry is prepared for the outside: 

For each cup of flour at least one egg is used. Any kind of 
salad oil or water to have pastry soft enough to roll and place 
over balls and trim around. After balls are covered with the 


29 


pastry, they should be left in cool place to dry for at least 24 
hours. 

‘When ready to cook these should be boiled in broth or water 
for about 20 or 30 minutes. When Ravioli are removed from 
broth a well prepared tomato sauce is to be poured over them 
and placed in moderate oven for 15 or 80 minutes in baking dish. 

The above recipe will serve 25 people. 

Another way of making pastry: 


10 cups of flour Oil and very little water 
15 eggs 


TOMATO SAUCE 


34 pound butter be left out) 

2 onions 2 or 3 chicken livers 

2 buttons garlic 1 sprig rosemary 

6 cans tomato paste Parsley, bay leaf and celery 
3 cans tomatoes (or tomato juice) 2!4 tablespoons sugar 

3 small cans mushrooms (may Salt and pepper 


Saute chopped liver and onions in fat until golden brown, add 
tomatoes and paste. Place garlic, parsley, bay leaf, rosemary 
and celery in a small cheese cloth bag and put in with rest to 
cook slowly for 2 or 3 hours. Mushrooms may be added near the 
end of the cooking period. Season with salt, pepper and sugar. 
This recipe makes enough for serving 25 for the Ravioli recipe 


above. Mrs. Ben Pons, Burke County 
POT ROAST 
3 pounds of chuck roast or Sear roast on top of stove. Then 
stew beef add seasonings as follows: 
6 Irish potatoes 2, teaspoon salt 
10 carrots 24 teaspoon pepper 
5 onions 8 whole cloves (or sprinkle with 
Seasonings of brown sugar, ground cloves) 
cloves, Worchestershire sauce, 1 tablespoon sugar 
and brown sugar, plus pepper 1 teaspoon sauce 
and salt 


Chili sauce and chili powder 
may also be added if desired. 


Roast in a preheated oven at 325° F. adding one half cup of 
water for an hour. Then add vegetables and bake another hour 
or until vegetables are well cooked. Keep cover on roaster for 
tender meat. When done, remove contents to deep bowl and 
fix thick gravy, pouring some over meat and vegetables. Stewed 
tomatoes as a side dish add to the flavor of the meal. 

Mrs. C. R. Holmes, Perquimans County 


30 


ROAST BEEF WITH YORKSHIRE PUDDING 


My mother, Mrs. H. Littlewood of Yorkshire, England, brought 
this recipe from England when she came to the states in the 
year 1887 or 1888. 

Rub meat with salt and place in tight roaster with cup of 
water and put in oven. Heat fast until it starts to cook good and 
let slow down. When tender remove lid and let it brown on both 
sides. Remove to platter. Place roaster on top of stove and add 
two pints of hot water. Let boil until all the brown leaves the 
pan, then salt and pepper to taste and thicken with flour batter 
to make a thin gravy. 


YORKSHIRE PUDDING 


2 cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon salt 
2 eggs 2 cups water 


Place flour in mixing bowl, add salt, make hole in middle of 
flour, add eggs and one cup of water. Beat well, then add rest 
of water and beat well again. Cover bottom of one large pan or 
two small ones with some of the beef fat from the roast. Pour 
mixture in pan one-half inch deep. Bake in extra hot oven until 
brown or 20 minutes. Serve on warm plates at once with a good 
deal of gravy. Follow with course of vegetables and meat. Have 


family at table in time before serving. 
Mrs. E. C. Francis, Ashe County 


SPICED BEEF 


The following recipe was used and enjoyed by Miss Marcia 
Albertson, Pasquotank County’s first Home Agent and is still 
in use today. 

This was a delicacy for special occasions such as Christmas 
and Thanksgiving. This large amount was prepared at one time 
and served sliced for many meals. 


25 pounds beef—top round 
2 ounces salt petre 2 ounces cloves—ground 


1 quart salt 2 ounces allspice—ground 
1 quart black molasses—no 1 ounce nutmeg 


Rub meat with salt petre and salt. Cover with remaining mix- 
ture and allow to stand for 21 days in a crock. Turn each day. 
Tie up in cheese cloth, put in cold water to cover, using part of 
the liquid left. Boil 20 minutes to the pound. Allow to cool in 


fooling about the black 


31 


water. If less meat is used than called for, you may allow a day 
for each pound of meat. Best to do in large pieces though. 
Mrs. J. L. Shipley, Pasquotank County 


yl DELICIOUS MEAT LOAF 
2 pounds beef 2 cups Rice Flakes 
1 pound pork VY; cup tomato catsup 
144 teaspoons salt 1 small onion 
2 eggs slightly beaten Y, cup milk 


Mix all. Bake in moderate oven 34 hour. Uncovered. Irish 
sabe may be baked around individual loaves. 
sng Mrs. Ethel Johnson, Harnett County 


SPAGHETTI 


(Mike Correlli an Italian tailor gave this recipe many 
years ago.) 


5 tablespoons olive oil or bacon grease. In this, brown one 
piece (small) garlic, and 1 good size onion. Add 14 pound ground 
steak, 1 can of tomato paste mixed with 1 pint water. Cook. 
Serve as sauce over spaghetti. 

Cook 1 pound spaghetti 20 minutes, drain water and add 114 


cups cheese (grated). Transylvania County 


BLACK “MAMMEY’S” BAKED HAM 


1 medium size cured ham Y, cup brown sugar 
1 quart sweet cider 4 teaspoon black pepper 
1 tablespoon whole cloves 1 cup cracker crumbs 


1 tablespoon (level) dry mustard 


Saw off shank and enough of butt end to leave a nice shaped 
piece. Skin with a sharp knife if it is not one of the “Skinned” 
hams, and soak overnight in cold water. When ready to cook 
wipe dry with cloth and rub well with the mustard, and place 
in roaster. Tie cloves in a muslin bag and put into cider and 
heat to boiling point. Pour over ham and put into oven and bake 
—allowing about 20 minutes to the pound or until tender, basting 
often with cider. When done remove to shallow pan and rub 
into fat the sugar, pepper and cracker crumbs which you have 
blended together, then return to oven to brown. This is delicious 
served either hot or cold. 


Mrs. E. F. House, Sampson County 


32 


SPAGHETTI DINNER 


1 pound ground steak Salt to taste 
1 large onion, chopped Y, bottle tomato catsup 
3 tablespoons fat 1 box spaghetti 


3 cups tomatoes 


Cook spaghetti in boiling, salted water. Make ground steak 
into meat balls. Cook in 8 tablespoons of fat until tender, not 
hard. Remove from pan and cook onions until tender. Add toma- 
toes and catsup and simmer 10 minutes. Add cooked spaghetti 
and partially cooked meat balls and continue to simmer 10 
minutes to season through. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Charles Timberlake, Granville County 


SOUTHERN HAMBURGER 


1 pound ground beef 1 can chicken gumbo soup 

2 tablespoons fat (104% ounces) 

Y, cup chopped onions 2 tablespoons prepared mustard 
2 tablespoons tomato catsup Y, teaspoon salt : 


Brown meat in hot fat. Add onions and cook until golden 
brown. Add remaining ingredients and simmer over slow heat 
for 30 minutes. Serve on warm hamburger rolls with bole slaw 
or with onion. Serves 6 to 8. 

This can be prepared ahead and warmed when ready for use. 
Some people like more mustard and some chilli served on buns 
with it. 

Mrs. Charlie Talley, Rockingham County 


BARBECUED SPARERIBS 


4 pounds spareribs 1 tablespoon salt 

2 onions sliced 4 teaspoon red pepper 
34 cup catsup 1 teaspoon paprika 

34 cup water 1 teaspoon black pepper 
2 tablespoons vinegar 1 teaspoon chili powder 


Place ribs in roasting pan. Cover with onions. Sprinkle with 
salt and pepper. Combine remaining ingredients and mix well. 
Pour over ribs. Cover. Baste occasionally and remove cover dur- 
ing last 20 minutes of roasting. Serve with pan sauce. Time 114 


hours. Temperature 350° F. 
Mrs. D. T. Ayscue, Vance County 


Recipe also submitted by : Mrs. Sam Potts, Haywood County 


33 


BARBECUED SPARERIBS 


Cut spareribs in pieces of 2 ribs about 4 inches long. Place in 
pressure cooker with just a little water and salt and cook real 
tender. Place ribs in baking dish and baste with a sauce made 
of 2 parts of vinegar to 1 of catsup. A little Worcestershire 
sauce, salt, pepper, and sugar to taste. Add a little broth from 
the ribs and baste over the ribs with half the sauce. Broil real 
quick until brown. Turn over and baste with remainder sauce 
and brown. Serve hot. 


Mrs. Shephen Watson, Wilson County 


BRUNSWICK STEW 


3 pounds beef 6 large onions 
2 cans (No. 2) corn 1 stalk celery 
Y, gallon canned tomatoes 1 pint okra 
4 green peppers 1 pound butter 
Salt and pepper to taste 1 dozen Irish potatoes 


1 tablespoon vinegar 


Cook beef tender and grind—cook remaining ground ingre- 
dients in beef broth until done. Mix with beef and cook slowly 
over low heat 1 hour, stirring constantly to avoid sticking. 


Mrs. C. M. Hendrix, Cherokee County 


GRANVILLE COUNTY BRUNSWICK STEW 


6 hens 1 gallon whole peeled potatoes 
10 pounds fresh pork (or hog 2 gallons corn 
head is excellent) Seasonings: 
3 pounds beef (optional) 2-3 pounds of butter (depending 
2 large onions on amount of fat on meats) 
2 gallons shelled butter beans Salt, pepper and sugar to taste 
1 gallon tomatoes (more, if Several pods of red pepper 
desired) 1 bottle tomato catsup 


Cook outdoors in an iron pot. Place all meats and the onion 
together in the pot with enough water to cover well. Cook meat 
until tender (about 214 hours). Add butter beans, tomatoes, 
some of the butter and the seasonings, except catsup. (Taste 
while cooking and add more as needed). Stir frequently with 
hickory stick or paddle. Cook until vegetables are tender. Add 
whole potatoes (as they cook the stirring causes them to come 
to pieces and no particles are seen in the completed stew.) Add 


34 


water as needed. As the mixture thickens it is necessary to stir 
constantly. Add more butter if needed. Add corn, cook about 
20 minutes and remove pot from fire. Continue to stir for a few 
minutes to prevent sticking. Add catsup just before serving. 
Serve while hot with crackers, hush puppies or loaf bread. 

Mrs. Robert Lee Daniel, Granville County 


CABBAGE MEAT ROLLS 


1 cup left over meat (ground) 1 teaspoon salt 
(pork preferred) 1 teaspoon pepper sauce 
Cabbage leaves (green leaves) 1 egg 

1 onion (chopped) 1 cup bread crumbs 


Mix crumbs, meat, onion, salt and pepper sauce. Beat the egg 
and stir into the mixture working all together thoroughly. Wash 
perfect leaves from the outside of a cabbage. (Put these leaves 
in hot water and boil just long enough to wilt them so that you 
may be able to roll them easily). Cool them, and place a portion 
of the meat mixture on each leaf. Roll lengthwise and tie se- 
curely with soft white string. Cook the rolls in salted juice 
from fresh pork for about 30 minutes. Drain carefully and 
serve with grated cheese or any desired sauce. 

Margaret Blanchard, Avery County 


COUNTRY CURED BOILED HAM 


Soak ham over night in solution of two cups molasses, two 
cups of vinegar and water to cover. Next morning drain and 
add new solution of ingredients used the night before (add 
spices if desired) and simmer four or five hours. Allow to cool 
in own juice. 

Mrs. Jim R. Bell, Cabarrus County 


THE FAMOUS LEASBURG BOILED COUNTRY HAM 


Select cured ham; scrape, wash, and soak over night. Cover 
with water to which one cup brown sugar and one cup vinegar 
has been added and simmer for about twelve minutes to the 
pound. Do not boil. Allow to stand in water until cool. Remove 


skin and store in refrigerator overnight before slicing. 
Person County 


COUNTRY STYLE PORK CHOPS 


This recipe was used by my Grandmother Doub, who was 
Caroline Spach of the Friedberg Moravian group. She was of 
the Spach family of the Rock House, which is being rebuilt. 


6 pork chops Pepper to taste 
2 tablespoons fat 3 tablespoons flour 
1 teaspoon salt 2 cups cold water 


Roll chops in flour to which salt and pepper have been added. 
Put fat in pan when hot. Brown chops quickly on both sides. 
Remove from pan. Add one tablespoon flour to hot grease, brown 
and add 14 teaspoon salt and the 2 cups of cold water and stir 
until it is smooth. Add chops to gravy and cook in oven for one 
hour at 825° F. Steak is delicious cooked by same recipe. 

Mrs. W. R. Lasley, Forsyth County 


DUMPLINGS 


My grandmother, Mrs. Mollie Henley Jonas, who was born 
March 17, 1851 in Wythe County, Virginia, used the following 
recipe. My mother, Mrs. Bessie Jonas Johnson, has used this 
recipe for 48 years and I have used it for 7 years. We use it 
mainly for dumplings with stewed chicken but can be used with 
any meat. 


3 cups sifted flour is salty) 
2 teaspoons baking powder 1 well beaten egg 
1 teaspoon salt (unless broth 1 cup boiling broth 


Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together in bowl. Pour 
the boiling broth over flour mixture, let stand until cold, add the 
beaten egg. (If dough is too soft to roll add more flour; if it is 
too stiff, add some sweet milk.) Roll and cut in your desired 
shape and thickness. Drop into boiling broth. Cover and cook 
12-15 minutes. 

Mrs. Meredith L. Richardson, Alleghany County 


CORN MEAL DUMPLINGS 


2 cups corn meal Enough cold water to make soft 
1 teaspoon salt dough 


Mix thoroughly. Pat out in thin cakes and drop in pot with 
oysters. Makes 6 medium size dumplings. 
Mrs. Lydia Wade, Carteret County 


36 


DUMPLINGS 


1 cup milk powder 
2 cups flour 2 tablespoons lard 
3 heaping teaspoons baking Scant teaspoon salt 


Have chicken or beef broth boiling. Roll dumplings one-fourth 
inch thick and finger length and drop into boiling broth. Be 
careful not to pile them on the others. Cover and let boil for 
fifteen minutes. 


Mrs. Annie Kate Trawick, Stokes County 


GRITS 


Put one cup of grits into four cups meat broth (salted to 
taste) and add one cup meat bits (chicken, beef, or lean pork) 
and stir while cooking until well done. Serve hot. 

Mrs. Jim R. Bell, Cabarrus County 


HASH 
2 cups cooked beef cut into 4 cup chopped green bell pepper 
small pieces 2 large potatoes cubed 
1 cup beef broth _ teaspoon black pepper 
1 cup water 1 teaspoon salt 
4 cup chopped onion 1, cup tomato juice or canned 
Y, cup chopped celery tomatoes 


Place all ingredients in saucepan except tomatoes and cook 
until potatoes, celery, pepper, and onions are done. Add tomato 
juice and simmer for five or ten minutes. 

Mrs. D. C. Cole, Rutherford County 


CORN DUMPLINGS 


, of a ham or shoulder bone 2 eggs 

1 quart corn meal) 4, teaspoon black pepper 
14 teaspoon salt) sift together 1 pod red hot pepper 

\, teaspoon soda) 3 tablespoons lard 


1 cup boiling water 


Soak bone in cold water overnight. Cook until tender then 
pour boiling water over corn meal and stir. Add eggs, pepper and 
lard. Put meat in a big pan. Make corn dough into patties and 
drop into the liquid in which the meat was cooked. Add chopped 
red pepper which has been browned in another pan. 

Mrs. Anderson Eudy, Stanly County 


37 


SOUTHERN DUMPLINGS 


My grandmother Devenny used this recipe during and after 
the Civil War when she was left with 6 small children. She lived 
about 25 miles from town and necessity taught her to use the 
things grown on her small farm. 

I call them the “Pass Me Quick Dumplings.” They are to be 
served with pot roast, roast chicken, dried beans and peas. 


3 cups of stale bread 4 teaspoonful pepper 

2 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoonful salt 

1 cup milk or liquid from meat Dash of celery powder or chili 
4 teaspoonful sage powder 


Add together and form nut size balls. Drop into liquid and 
cook under cover 15 minutes. Serve immediately. 
Mrs. Clark Harrill, Rutherford County 


“KILLIE’S LIVER PUDDING 


This is my mother’s own recipe and my father speaks of it 
as “Killie’s” pudding, “Killie’ being my mother’s nickname. This 
recipe has been used for many years and is still being used by 
my mother’s children and grandchildren. 

Cut into medium pieces one hog hashlet (liver, lights, and 
heart) and one and one-half pounds of skins or fat meat and cook 
until tender. When slightly cooled put through meat chopper. 
Place the ground meat back in the broth in which it was cooked. 
Season with one large onion and salt and sage to suit taste. Let 
boil and add corn meal a little at a time, stirring constantly. 
When the mixture turns loose the sides of the pot it is ready 
to take up and pack into pans or bowls which have just been 
rinsed in cold water. Good sliced and fried or served cold. 

Mrs. C. G. Oldham, Chatham County 


ROASTED LAMB 


This is one of Mrs. McCracken’s own recipe as developed from 
her mother’s methods of roasting lamb. She is quite famous in 
Haywood County for her Roasted Lamb. 

Take a quarter of lamb, place in roaster, put a tablespoon 
brown sugar and 2 tablespoons salt and 1 small onion, sliced, 
place on lamb quarter with a cup of water. Roast slowly and 
when tender, brown lightly. 

Mrs. Raymond McCracken, Haywood County 


38 


LIVER PUDDING 


This recipe belonged to Mary Vinson Sasser and is approxi- 
mately 100 years old. It has been handed down through four 
generations. Mrs. Sasser came from Ireland in a boat when she 
was five years of age. Two of her brothers fought in the battle 
at Wilmington during the Civil War. 

©o pounds liver (any amount can be mixed). 

Boil in salt water until tender. Grind in chopper and mix in 
with liver 14 cup meal and enough sage and pepper for indivi- 
dual taste. Place in oven and brown. 

Before browning, pudding may be stuffed like sausage, stored 
in ice box or freezer and sliced and fried when needed. 


Wilson County Council 


SLUMGULLION 


This was a woodman’s and covered wagon dish, cooked in 
one pot. 

Meats—beef, pork—or any meat or meats or game cut in small 
pieces. Any handy vegetable such as tomatoes, Irish potatoes, 
butter beans, okra, onions, fresh corn, peppers. This was cooked 
until all was tender and served in cups or bowls. 


Mrs. Jim R. Bell, Cabarrus County 


SOUSE MEAT 


During the fall and winter months when hog-killing season 
is at its peak, this old Southern dish is still considered a delicacy. 

Boil together hogs head and feet (well cleaned) in enough 
water to half-way cover the meat. When cooked tender remove 
bones, and put through a food chopper. Add enough liquid (from 
which the meat was cooked) to ground meat to make of work- 
able-soft consistency. Mix in seasonings of salt, black and red 
pepper to taste. When thoroughly stirred and still warm, place 
souse meat in container large enough for plate or flat object 
to cover dish. On top of this place a weight or heavy object 
to press the meat. 

When cold, meat will be congealed and ready for use as a de- 
licious sandwich filling, or to serve as the main protein food 


with a regular meal. 
Mrs. W. M. Fulp, Stokes County 


39 


SAUSAGE CREAM GRAVY 


This recipe has been used in our family for five generations. 

Fry 8 or 10 cakes of well seasoned sausage. When done add 1 
heaping tablespoon flour, 14, teaspoon sage, a sprinkle of pepper 
and salt to sausage fat. Stir well, then add 2 cups of whole 
sweet milk and boil until thick as desired. Boil sausage in gravy. 
Serve with rice or hot biscuits. This makes a good supper dish. 


Mrs. Claude Haithcock, Warren County 


SMOTHERED PORK CHOPS 


6 pork chops 2 cups canned tomatoes 

6 large slices onion 2 cups precooked rice 

6 slices green pepper 1 tablespoon Worchestershire 
1 cup chopped celery sauce 


Salt and pepper pork chops and roll in flour. Brown on both 
sides; place large slice onion on each chop; on top of this place 
ring of pepper. Cook rice in the usual way except not too done. 
Place 2 tablespoons of rice in pepper ring. Add celery and toma- 
toes, cover and steam slowly until chops are tender. 


Mrs. D. C. Cole, Rutherford County 


HOME STYLE CHILI 


This is an old-fashioned recipe handed down by my grand- 
mother through the years and the portions given have been 
tested for their accuracy. 


2 tablespoons shortening 1 teaspoon salt 

1 cup chopped onions Y, teaspoon chili powder 
1144 pounds ground steak Few grains cayenne 

1 cup canned tomatoes 1 can red kidney beans 


Melt shortening in frying pan, add onions and meat, cooking 
until brown over medium heat. Add tomatoes and seasoning, 
stir until mixed. Cover pan and cook slowly 45 minutes. Add 
drained kidney beans and cook until beans are heated through; 
about 15 minutes. 

Serve hot. If more liquid is needed add tomato juice. 


Mrs. Hugh Early, Haywood County 


40 


CHICKEN and drew mee 


A 





2° > 
° 
CRAY ope 





ALABAMA CHICKEN CORN PIE 


This is a favorite of the mother of Mr. J. W. Roberts of Bar- 
bour Co., Ala. He served in the Calvary during the War Between 
The States and returned to his home “The Old Roberts Plan- 
tation” to live to a ripe old age. 


1 small fryer or broiler 2 teaspoons salt 
6 ears fresh tender corn 2 teaspoons sugar 
Y cup butter ' teaspoon black pepper 


Pastry: Proceed with pastry as for other pies using a top 
crust. Prepare chicken and corn as for frying. Stew chicken 
in small amount of water until tender. Melt butter in chicken 
broth, add salt, sugar and pepper. Put chicken and corn in layers 
in large skillet or casserole. Pour broth over chicken and corn. 
Bake at 350° F. for about 25 minutes. 

Mrs. Hazel J. Bell, Cabarrus County 


CHICKEN CURRY (Persian Recipe) 


This is an old Persian recipe given me by my husband’s family 
20 years ago. They have used it for generations. 

1 two-pound chicken 2 teaspoons curry powder 

2 small onions Small piece of butter, size of an egg 

Cut up the chicken in small pieces and have sufficient water 
to cover it. Cook slowly until tender, season thoroughly. Remove 
the chicken, pour liquid in a bow] and set aside. Cut up the 2 
small onions and fry with the butter. When the onions are 
brown, skim out and put in the chicken. Fry 3 or 4 minutes. 
Next, sprinkle over it the two teaspoons of curry powder. Pour 
in the liquid in which the chicken was cooked. Stir well, all to- 
gether. Stew 5 minutes and thicken with a tablespoon of flour 
rubbed smooth in a little cold water. Serve with a border of rice 
cooked dry. 

Hamburger or other meats or other fowl may be used. 

Reig sess Mrs. Prince Ibraham, Forsyth County 


Al 


CHICKEN-A-LA-KING 


1 chicken (hen) boiled and 1 can mushrooms 

chopped 1 can English peas 
1 cup chopped celery 3 to 6 boiled eggs, chopped 
1 stick butter or equivalent in Y% to 1 cup flour 

chicken fat 2 cups milk 


1 small can pimiento 


Put butter or grease from chicken stock in saucepan. Sear 
chopped celery in hot grease (don’t have grease hot enough to 
burn). Add flour and milk to make white sauce. Then add mush- 
rooms, pimiento, and peas. Just before serving add chicken and 
egos. Add chicken stock to get desired consistency. (This is 
good to freeze—omitting the eggs until time to heat). 

scotland County 


MOTHER’S DELICIOUS CHICKEN 


1 medium size chicken Salt and pepper to taste 
1 pint can tomatoes 1 teaspoon sugar 
4 onions (chopped fine) 1 tablespoon butter 


Cut up chicken as for stewing. Put in a stew pan, cover with 
boiling water and cook slowly until tender. Take pieces of 
chicken out of liquor and cut meat off of bones. Put the bones 
back in liquid and boil for 30 minutes more. Remove the bones 
and put the small pieces of chicken into liquor, add tomatoes, 
onions, salt, pepper, sugar and butter and cook slowly until 
onions are cooked. Have ready one dozen slices of toast. Pour 
over toast, serve hot. 

Note—If chicken is very fat, add more water to liquor, and 
reserve part of liquor for soup. 

Mrs. E. F. House, Sampson County 


CREAMED CHICKEN 


4 cup butter—melted 2 cups broth or 1 cup broth and 
4 cup flour 1 cup thin cream 
Y, teaspoon salt 2 cups cooked chicken cut in cubes 


Y, teaspoon paprika 


Melt butter, add flour, salt and paprika. Stir and mix thor- 
oughly. Add liquid and cook over low heat until of medium 
consistency. Add chicken and heat through. Serve in toast cups 
or on slices of toast. 

Union County 


42 


CHICKEN PIE 


1 large chicken, cooked Butter 
1 pound lean pork, cooked Pastry to cover and strip large 


1 cup chicken broth baking pan about 12” x 16” 
Salt and pepper . 


Line baking pan with pastry. Bake in hot oven until lightly 
browned. Remove meat from chicken; mix with cooked pork and 
put in baked pie shell. Salt and pepper to taste and dot with but- 
ter. Pour over one cup chicken broth. Put pastry strips on top 
and bake in a very slow oven for 1 hour. For a thicker pie use 
two chickens and omit the pork. The larger pie will serve 12 to: 
15 generously. 

Mrs. Claude Sigmon, Catawba County 


JOHN IVY SMITH’S BARBECUE CHICKEN 
(Outdoor Methed) 


Mr. John Ivy Smith caters by appointment to small groups. 
in eastern Duplin County. His barbecued chicken has won for 
him a reputation of being extraordinarily good; AND, IT IS!! ~ 

Select a 3 pound chicken, split on breast and cook on a grill 
over wood coals with flesh side down, until almost done. Dip 
chicken in hot sauce and turn over to finish cooking. When done, 
dip chicken again in hot sauce and serve immediately. It takes 
about 3 hours to cook over wood coals. 


JOHN IVY’S HOT SAUCE 


Mix together in a sauce pan: 
1, pint vinegar Red pod pepper (or 4 cup of 


1 tablespoon salt ready prepared hot sauce 
1] teaspoon sugar Dash black pepper 


¥Y, stick margarine (or equal 
amount lard) 

Let mixture come to a boil and keep hot to use each time 
to dip chicken. | 

Barbecued chicken may be prepared indoors, by setting the 
oven at 350° F. Place open broiler with rack in center of oven. 
Place split chicken on rack with flesh side down. Cook about 
2 hours, keeping a little water in bottom of broiler to keep 
chicken moist. Dip in John Ivy’s Sauce. Turn chicken over and 
cook until done. Dip again in hot sauce and serve immediately. 

Mrs. Andrew Miller, Duplin County 


43 


Peel MEXICAN FRIED CHICKEN 


‘A 
y 
Pd 


1 quart water Y, to 3% teaspoons chili powder 
4 cup vinegar Salt to taste 
Boil chicken and cook slowly until tender in this broth. Let 
cool in broth. When cool, drain well. Fry in deep fat until a golden 


\. brown. Delicious served hot or cold. Fine for a picnic. 


Mrs. L. L. Harvin, Pender County 


NORTH CAROLINA CHICKEN PIE 


A number of years ago Mrs. Zeb Conley sent a family recipe 
for chicken pie to the Woman’s Home Companion. The recipe 
won a $10 prize for Mrs. Conley. North Carolina Chicken Pie, 
as Mrs. Conley remembers, was made by her grandmother, Mrs. 
Levi Whitehead of Winterville, North Carolina. 

Dress and singe a fowl. Put in sauce pan with boiling water 
to cover, add a sliced carrot, one stalk celery, one sprig parsley, 
and one sliced onion. Bring to the boiling point, cover and 
simmer until the fowl is tender allowing about 30 minutes to 
pound. When half done season with salt and pepper. Line a 
shallow baking dish with pastry, then a layer of cut up boned 
chicken, then a layer of pastry. Boil chicken stock down to 3 
cups, strain and skim off most of the fat. Mix 4 tablespoons 
flour to a smooth paste with cold water and add to the stock. 
Bring to the boiling point, stirring constantly and add to the 
chicken in the baking dish, put in oven and cook until bottom 
crust is nearly done. Then add remainder of stock, if any, and 
cover with pastry, cook slowly until crust is brown. Serve im- 


\ mediately. Mrs. Zeb Conley, Macon County 


PRESSED CHICKEN 


1 3-pound chicken Salt and red pepper 

1 cup chopped celery 1 tablespoon gelatin 

5 hard-cooked eggs 2 tablespoons cold water 

4 teaspoon mustard (A little lemon juice to taste) 


Boil the chicken gently until the meat easily falls from the 
bones. Chop chicken meat fine, add chopped celery and eggs 
diced. Mix together adding the seasoning to taste. Soak gelatin 
in cold water and dissolve in the liquor (there should be 2 cups) 
in which chicken has been cooked. Let broth cool and add chicken 
mixture. Turn into mold and chill until firm. Cut in squares and 
serve on lettuce leaves with or without mayonnaise. 

Transylvania County 


44 


PLANTATION FRIED CHICKEN 
(Milk Tenderized) 


1 24 pound fryer, cut up 2 teaspoons salt 
1 cup milk 72 cup corn meal 
1 egg, slightly beaten 


Remove skin, place chicken in bowl and add milk. Place in 
refrigerator for three hours. Blend 1 tablespoon of this milk with 
the egg. Dip chicken in egg mixture, then in salted corn meal. 
Melt grease to a 3 inch depth in frying kettle or saucepan. Fry 
chicken in hot grease until brown and tender. 

Mrs. Earl W. Ballard, Harnett County 


SOUTHERN FRIED CHICKEN 


This recipe was handed down to me by my mother and grand- 
mother. My mother, the late Mrs. L. S. Clemmer (Nee) Mary 
Louvenia Paysour, was daughter of the late Mr. and Mrs. David 
Rufus Paysour of Gaston County. Grandfather Paysour lost an 
arm in the Confederate War and was later Register of Deeds of 
Gaston County. 

Coat a 3 pound frying chicken with flour and seasonings to 
taste. Melt two tablespoons butter and four tablespoons lard in 
frying pan. Fry, and turn chicken in hot fat until a golden brown. 
Pour in boiling water to almost cover. Cook, covered, until tender. 
If water boils away add more for gravy. 

Mrs. R. E. Rhyne, Catawba County 


CHICKEN OR TURKEY DRESSING 


This recipe has been handed down from mother to daughter 
and daughter-in-law for 5 generations. There are no accurate 
measures. It can be seasoned to taste. My family does not like 
any other dressing. 


1 cup corn bread crumbs Liver & gizzards from chicken 
(day old bread is better) or turkey 
6 to 8 slices of toast 4 hard boiled eggs 
Crumble the toast and chop the eggs and liver and gizzards 
rather fine. Mix with corn bread crumbs and soften with broth 
from the chicken or turkey. Add onion, salt and pepper to taste. 
Put in baking dish. Dot with butter and brown in moderate oven. 
Mrs. Ralph Daughety, Lenoir County 


45 


~ CHICKEN DRESSING 
A handed down Civil War recipe. It was my grandmother’s. 


1 quart of chicken broth 2 cold biscuits 
2 cups of corn meal Salt and pepper as desired 


Crumble biscuits in broth and let it stand until dissolved. Then 
put on stove and stir the meal in. Let it cook slowly for thirty or 
a minutes, then it is ey to serve with baked chicken. 

ifs Mrs. C. J. Maddrey, Wilson County 


DRESSING FOR CHICKEN, TURKEY, BEEF OR PORK 


This was my mother’s recipe 40 years ago. 


2 quarts cracker and bread crumbs to soak the crumbs) 
1 pint broth in which the meat 4 eggs 
has been cooked, (or enough 1 teaspoon black pepper 


- Mix all together and bake in oven 350° F. 14 hour or until 
it puffs up and browns. Celery seed may be added if you like it. 
Oysters are fine in the dressing. Use 1 pint oysters and a little 
less broth. It takes a little longer to bake it. Onion lovers like 
onions in the dressing. Taste before baking as the dressing may 
not be salty enough. If it isn’t, add a little salt. 

Mrs. Rufus F. Todd, Forsyth County 


OLD-FASHIONED CHICKEN PIE 


Grandfather Saunders was a blind doctor who had his office 
in his home. Here he treated all his patients except for one day 
a week, then daddy took him to Wilson. Mother says most of the 
people who came to his home to be treated stayed for dinner 
and this was a favorite dish of theirs. 


1 chicken (hen preferred) 1 tablespoon shortening 
-Y4 pound butter Yy cup water 
1 pint flour . Black pepper and salt to taste 


Boil the chicken until well done. Then cut the shortening into 
the flour and make the flour up using water. Roll out crust and 
line a baking dish. Put in a layer of chicken which has been cut 
in very small pieces. Put some of the butter, broth as needed 
and a sprinkle of pepper. Then put a crust over this. Then another 
layer of chicken, butter, broth and pepper. Do this until you have 
used all your chicken and butter. Top with crust. Bake about 40 
minutes very slowly. Serves from 6 to 8 people. 

. Mrs. Clifton Jenkins, Wilson County 


46 





RABBIT 


Cut up a young rabbit and soak in salt water for a few hours 
or overnight. Have a pan hot with just a little fat in it. Add the 
floured rabbit and cook slowly with a cover on the pan until brown 
on both sides. 


Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


RABBIT 


This is the way my mother, grandmother, and I always cook 
rabbit. 


1 or 2 rabbits (dressed) 1 small pod hot red pepper 
1 small slice fat back meat Salt to taste 


Use enough water to cover when boiling. Cut the rabbit up and 
boil the rabbit, meat and pepper together until rabbit is real 
tender. Remove from liquid and brown in hot fat. This is good 
served with corn bread. 

Mrs. L. C. Deaton, Montgomery County 


Recipes from the Foods and Nutrition Department, Home 
Demonstration Division of the Extension Service. 


VENISON 


The term “venison” applies broadly to the flesh of all animals 
with the peculiar type of horns called antlers. Usage has limited 
it largely to deer or elk flesh. The actual cookery of venison 
differs very little, if at all, from domestic-meat cookery. It should 
be cooked medium to well done—a wise rule to follow in cookery 
of game in general. Tender cuts of young animals are cooked by 
dry heat—roasted, broiled, or fried. Tough cuts are cooked slowly 
by moist heat—braising, pot roasts, stews, casserole dishes. 


47 


Venison is likely to be lean. Fats have to be added generously 
to keep meat moist and juicy. 


WILD DUCK OR GEESE 


Season the inside cavity of the dressed duck or goose with salt 


/ and pepper. Fill the cavity with a mixture of raw chopped celery, 


onions, apples and white potatoes seasoned with salt and pepper. 
(These help absorb some of the wild game flavor.) 

Rub the outside surface of the bird with a cut onion and bacon 
fat. Place on a rack with breast down in a roaster with a close 
fitting lid. Pour one cup of water in the roaster, cover and cook 
in a slow oven (800° F.) about one hour. After the first hour, 
turn the bird with breast up and cook until tender. 

Remove the cooked vegetables from the cavity when the duck 
or goose is done. ( I discard this, as it is too strong in flavor.) 
Stuff the bird with one of the following: a highly seasoned bread 
dressing, cooked wild rice, or sauerkraut. Brush the outside sur- 
face of bird with butter or margarine. Place in a shallow pan 
and return to the oven (350° F.) to brown. 


ROAST VENISON 


Use a3 to 5 pound piece of loin, round or shoulder from a young 
deer, elk, or caribou. Lard it with salt pork strips if very lean or 
cover with slices of bacon or salt pork. Place on rack in shallow 
pan. Insert meat thermometer with bulb in center of meat. Roast 
in slow oven (300°- 325°F.) until medium to well done, or until 
meat thermometer registers 175°-180°F. Allow 35 to 45 minutes 
per pound. Serve with gravy made from drippings in pan. Allow 
14 to 34. pound per portion. 


VENISON STEAKS 


Rub the steaks with salt and pepper and brush generously with 
melted butter, as venison is a dry meat. Put in a greased broiler 
and cook over hot fire, browning well on both sides. The length of 
time for cooking will depend on the thickness of the steaks, but 
they must not cook too long, as venison should be cooked under- 
done. Place the steaks on a very hot platter. 

Melt 14 glass currant jelly and pour around (not over) the 
venison and serve immediately. 


48 


ALASKAN VENISON ROAST 


4 pound roast of venison 4 teaspoon pepper 
Salt pork % teaspoon allspice 

1 apple, peeled and sliced 2 bay leaves 

1 onion, sliced 2 sprigs of rosemary 


1 teaspoon salt 


Wipe meat with a damp cloth. With a wide knife make gashes 
in roast about two inches apart and half the thickness of the 
roast. Place a slice of salt pork, thin slice of apple and slice of 
onion in each gash. Top with another slice of onion. Sprinkle the 
top with salt, pepper, allspice, bay leaves, and rosemary. Insert 
meat thermometer into thick muscle with bulb in center. Place 
the meat on a rack in an oven roaster. Roast, uncovered, in slow 
oven (300°- 325°F.) 2 to 3 hours, or until the internal tempera- 
ture of the meat has reached 170°F. Venison should be roasted 
medium done. Allow 30 to 35 minutes to the pound. To serve, 
remove the spices and place meat on a hot platter. The gravy 
may be thickened if desired. Approximate yield: 8 servings. 


BROILED VENISON 


Use tender cuts from loin or leg, about 14 to 34 inch thick. 
Brush with olive oil and broil 10 to 20 minutes; season with salt 
and pepper and serve with Lemon Butter. To panfry, brush hot 
frying pan with fat and fry, uncovered, turning frequently to 
cook evenly. If venison is strong, marinate in oil and lemon juice 
or French dressing for 1 hour before broiling. Allow 14 to 34 
pound per portion. 


VENISON STEW 


The shoulder or saddle of venison is best for the stew. Place 
the meat in an earthen jar and cover with vinegar. To the vinegar 
add 3 or 4 onions, sliced, and 14 dozen bay leaves before pouring 
over the meat. Allow to stand at least two days before cooking, 
then remove the meat from the brine and wash it in cold water. 
Add boiling water and stew slowly until tender. Remove the 
meat and make gravy from the broth. Venison cooked in this 
way is delicious making a wonderful dish from the undesirable 


cuts. 


49 


VENISON CUTLETS 


Use tender cuts from loin, about 4 to 34 inch thick; marinate 
in oil and grape juice for 1 hour. Drain, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, roll in flour, dip in slightly beaten egg and roll in fine 
bread crumbs. Saute in butter 10 to 12 minutes, turning fre- 
quently. Place meat on hot platter; add 14 cup currant jelly to 
drippings, stir, bring to a boil and pour over steak. Allow 14 to 
34 pound per portion. 





BAKED SHAD (1780) 


Place in large pan and cover with water. Put in oven, let 
simmer from 4-6 hours in wood stove. Stuffing for a 6 pound 
shad, take 2 pounds butter, 10 eggs, 2 quarts bread crumbs 
toasted, salt and pepper. Mix this up together then stuff shad. 
Then with needle and thread sew up. If the fish should get too 
hot, place a cloth over the top. 

Lincoln County 


ROCK FISH MUDDLE 


Handed down by Mr. Harvey Lassiter of Lasker, North 
Carolina, in 1944. Mr. Lassiter is now deceased. Perhaps this 
recipe has been used in the town of Lasker for many years since 
this little town is noted for getting together for feeds. This is 
written in words of Mr. Lassiter, just as he wrote it. 
needed while cooking. Add salt 


and pepper any time to taste. 
One hour before fish are done, 


30 pounds fish out of water 
3% pounds fat bacon cut into small 
cubes. Fry bacon brown and 


take bacon and grease out of 
pot. Put in fish heads with in- 
sides to the pot. Add in brown 
bacon and grease as you put in 
the fish. Lay flesh side of fish 
to pot. Never salt until fish are 
cooking. Add water to about 


put in 3!4 pounds onions to top 
of fish. Never stir until ready to 
serve. Cook from 2!4 hours to 
4 hours according to size of 
muddle. Cook slow for first 
half hour, then hard for next 
two hours, then slow down. 


cover the fish. Add water if 
Mrs. T. T. Stephenson, Northampton County 


Note: Northampton County is famous for Rock Muddle since 
the Roanoke River is so near. This is definitely a Northampton 
dish. In early spring everyone turns out for county and com- 
munity “Rock Muddles’”. It is different from and better than 


stewed fish. 
51 


HATTERAS STYLE DRUM FISH 


The drum, or channel bass, is perhaps the best liked fish among 
the people of Hatteras Island, who have a wide variety to choose 
from. It was formerly sided, salted, dried and stacked up, and 
was available at all times, to be soaked out and cooked. Thrifty 
housewives now pressure-can enough for their own needs. It is 
cooked, fresh by many methods, but the following is a traditional 
style: 

One side of drum, about a foot and a half, with head and tail 
removed, boiled in water with plenty salt and pepper, until ten- 
der. This should be lifted out in two or three pieces and placed 
on a platter, to be mixed at the table. Boil and mash 8 medium 
potatoes, salted. Have 14 pound fat salt pork cut into tiny pieces 
and fried crisp. Place them in a small dish and pour some of the 
hot grease in a small pitcher. Mince a medium sized onion and 
place in small dish. 

As in a tossed salad, half the pleasure of eating it is in watch- 
ing the mixing. So it is with the ritual of mixing Hatteras Style 
Drum Fish. The novice has to be shown the first time, but can 
hold his own with his second and third helpings. 

On each serving plate, place a heap of mashed potatoes, a large 
“hunk” of fish, a spoonful (more or less) of cracklins and onions. 
Mix thoroughly, season with the drippings and more salt and 
pepper, if desired. 

Some like it mixed in the kitchen and brought to the table 
ready to eat, perhaps garnished with hard boiled eggs, parsley, 
etc., but all agree that it’s wonderful food, especially when 
served with plenty of corn bread (not the sweet variety), coffee, 
pickles and a crisp raw vegetable. Serves six hungry people. 

Mrs. Rebecca Burrus, Dare County 


FISH AND CHIPS 


In England, the natives have a combination which they call 
“Fish n’ Chips.” Chips to an Englishman mean what an American 
calls French fries. Fish and Chip shops are scattered all over — 
England and they are sold wrapped in paper. They are nibbled 
in the shop, on the street or on the beach. 


1 pound fish fillets 4 cup of flour 
1 egg, slightly beaten 1 cup fine bread crumbs 
% cup milk Dash of pepper 


1 teaspoon salt 


a2 


Mix eggs, milk, salt and pepper together. Cut fillets into pieces 
a little larger than french fried potatoes. Dry. Roll in flour. Dip 
in egg mix and then roll in bread crumbs. Fry in small amount 
of fat, turning to brown on both sides, or fry in deep fat 360° F. 
until done. Serve with French fried potatoes. 


OVEN FRENCH FRIES 


Turn oven on at 450°F. Brush cut potatoes with salad oil. 
Place on oiled cookie sheet. Place in oven and cook 25 minutes or 
until brown. After about 10 minutes, turn and brush again with 
oil. Continue cooking until brown. 

Mrs. Ronald Edwards, Wilkes County 


PARSON EARL’S DRIED HERRING 


Parson Earl introduced commercial herring into this section 
when he came from Bandon, Ireland, in 1754 as a missionary of 
the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in Foreign Parts 
and became Rector of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Edenton, N. C. 
He built a home on the Chowan River and named it “Bandon.” 
This is now the home of Mr. & Mrs. John Fletcher (Mrs. Inglis 
Fletcher, Author). This recipe for Dried Herring is still used in 
Chowan and other counties in the Albemarle area. 

His favorite dish was Dried Herring. To fix these the gills 
were removed from the fresh caught herring, then the herrings 
were put in a strong brine for 3 days. To tell when the brine 
was strong enough they added salt until it would float an egg. 
The herring were then removed from the brine and hung up on 
reeds to dry. They would keep for several months this way. As 
they were wanted for a meal they were taken from the reed, 
skinned and soaked in water for several hours to remove the salt. 
They were then boiled or fried to suit the taste of the family. 

Mrs. E. N. Elliott, Chowan County 


DEVILED CRAB 
From an old cook book in the Frank Wood Family, Edenton, 
N. C. 


1 can crab meat Salt, pepper, mustard and 
6 eggs cheyene (to taste) 
4 stick butter 4 teaspoon nutmeg 
About 4 bottle Worchester- Grated bread crumbs (already 
shire sauce browned) 


Beat eggs and then add crab meat and beat again well. Add 
all ingredients except butter. Put the butter in the pan that crab 
meat is to be cooked in and put on stove to melt. Grate a few 
crumbs in the crab meat and put it all in the melted butter. Grate 
a few crumbs on top. Cook 5 or 10 minutes. Serve hot. Cook in a 


pan a little thicker than aluminum. Chowan County 


FISH 


Cut fish into desired pieces, salt to taste, roll in flour and cook 
in a hot, deep fat until each piece is a rich brown and tender. 
Remove fish from pan and fry hush puppies in the fat. 


HUSH PUPPIES 


4 cups meal 1 cup sour milk 
6 large onions (chopped) 2 eges 
1 cup flour 1 teaspoon salt and dash of pepper 


1 teaspoon soda 


Mix together all ingredients. Roli into small rolls and fry brown 
on both sides. Cook slowly until well done. 
Mrs. C. M. Hendrix, Cherokee County 


CLAM FRITTERS 


You can tell by the recipe below that my folks were “coast 
people.” As far as I know the recipe is much over a hundred 
years old. 


24 soft clams 1 cup milk 

2 cups flour 'Y, cup clam liquor 
1 teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs 

1, teaspoon salt Salt and pepper 


Make a batter of flour, baking powder, salt, milk, clam liquor 
and well beaten eggs. Chop clams, season with salt and pepper. 
Add to the batter and drop by tablespoonfuls into deep fat. 

Mrs. L. D. Tomlinson, Sr., Wilson County 


CLAM FRITTERS 


2 cups finely ground or 2 beaten eggs 
chopped raw clams (save 1 teaspoon salt 
juice) Milk or water to mix 
1 cup sifted flour Pepper—use generously 


Mix flour with dry ingredients. Add enough milk or water to 


oA 


clam juice to make 1 cup liquid. Stir liquid into flour. Add beaten 
eggs and clams. The batter should be thin like pancake batter. 
Fry on hot griddle or heavy skillet in shallow grease. Fritters 
should be from 8 to 4 inches in diameter. Makes around 20. 

Mrs. J. R. Mayberry, Carteret County 


WILLISTON CLAM CHOWDER 


1 quart water 1 medium size onion 
1 quart clams, chopped fine % pound salt pork, cubed 
2 medium size white potatoes Salt and pepper to taste 


Cube pork and fry until crisp and brown. Cube potatoes and 
onions. Bring clams and water to boil. Add pork and drippings, 
potatoes, onions, salt and pepper and cook for one hour. Add 
water as needed to keep chowder from cooking dry. Serves 6 
generously. Add corn meal dumplings the last fifteen minutes of 
cooking if desired. 

Mrs. Lydia Wade, Carteret County 


PINE BARK FISH STEW 


This dish is served for outdoor parties in the Pee Dee section 
of South Carolina where barbecue would probably be served in 
North Carolina. Its name comes from the fact that General 
Francis Marion’s Revolutionary Soldiers were supposed to have 
eaten it from pine bark plates when hidden in swamps of the 
Carolinas. 

Today when it is served on the river banks where the fish are 
caught a pie tin may be used for serving. Indoors a deep soup 
plate is filled with a mound of fluffy rice, and whole fish is laid 
on top of this and the highly seasoned tomato sauce ladled over 
all. It is eaten with a dessert spoon (soup spoon) with a knife 
or fork to help with the fish bones. 


6 or more good sized Bream 2 tablespoons sugar 

3 slices bacon or salt pork diced ', teaspoon ground cloves and tea- 
3 medium onions sliced spoon cinramon 

1 large bottle of catsup or 2 teaspoons salt 

1 can tomato paste Red pepper pods or tabasco 

4, cup vinegar Black pepper to taste 


Cook diced pork in a heavy iron pan. Remove bits of meat and 
add sliced onions, cooking them a little. Lay whole fish on top of 
onions using one or more per person depending on size of fish. 
Cover all with catsup or tomato paste to which seasonings are 
added. If necessary add some extra fresh or canned tomatoes or 


By) 


tomato juice. Add salt and pepper to taste and then some more 
pepper. Simmer slowly 20-80 minutes without stirring but lift 
slightly to prevent sticking to bottom of pan. Serve a whole fish 
on a mound of fluffy rice (use about 114 cups rice for six). Ladle 
the sauce over all and serve very hot. 

This seems to be akin to the French Bouillabaisse and was per- 
haps a Huguenot importation. 

Mrs. Maude P. McInnes, Wake County 


FRIED FISH AND HUSH PUPPIES 


Cherokee County is noted for its hospitality, beautiful scenery, 
community picnics, and fish fries. We like to think that it was on 
the banks of the Hiwassee River at one of the fish fries that the 
famous “hush puppy” got it’s name. Traditionally speaking, 
hunters and fishermen would gather on the banks of the river 
for their fish fries. While the fish was frying, the pups would 
howl, and to quite them, bits of the fried bread was thrown to 
them which gave it the name “hush puppy”. 


FRIED OYSTERS 


This recipe was used in the 1880’s by Mrs. Nellie Moon, Mrs. 
Taylor’s mother. 

Select large oysters for frying. Drain them in a colander and 
dry on a soft towel. Season with salt and pepper. First roll them 
in cracker dust, then dip in beaten egg, roll again on cracker dust 
and fry to a nice brown in butter or lard in a deep frying pan. 
Heat lard sufficiently to cover the oysters; as soon as it is boiling 
hot, put in oysters to cover the bottom. As soon as they are 
brown, skim out and serve hot. 

Mrs. J. Spot Taylor, Stokes County 


OYSTERS—OVEN STEAMED 


Oysters cooked this way have been enjoyed in our family for 
many years, being a recipe I learned from mother. I do not know 
the exact age but it is quite old. 

Take oysters that have been opened and clean by washing in 
one quart of water to which 14 cup of salt has been added. Drain. 
Grease pan or similar container and place oysters in it one layer 
thick. Dot with butter and season with salt if necessary. Put in 
oven or under broiler until edges begin to curl. Serve with any 


desired ; 
Steen gn Mrs. H. C. McDonald, Craven County 


56 


TIDEWATER VIRGINIA PICKLED OYSTERS 


This recipe was handed to me by my grandmother, Mrs. 
Leonard Hyslop, who was Miss Georgeanna Pullen before mar- 
riage. It was handed down to Grandmother Hyslop by her grand- 
mother (my great, great grandmother) who reared her. Her 
own mother having died during the yellow fever epidemic that 
struck Portsmouth, Virginia, before the Civil War. 

Strain liquor from oysters and to every pint add one quart of 
vinegar, one tablespoon of whole cloves, one tablespoon of black 
pepper, and one teaspoon of mace. Heat liquor and vinegar. Add 
spices and bring to boiling point. Add oysters and allow to come 
to boiling point. Serve ice cold with a turkey dinner. They are 
delicious! Grandmother Hyslop liked to add a lump of butter the 
size of an egg, while the mixture is still hot, and before chilling. 


Mrs. W. R. Grant, Montgomery County 


SCALLOPED OYSTERS 


1 quart standard-type oysters 14 cup celery, diced 
2 cups top milk Y, teaspoon salt 
Y, pound salty crackers , teaspoon black pepper 


3 tablespoons butter 


Add alternating layers of oysters, crackers and celery in baking 
dish, beginning and ending with crackers. Dot with butter and 
black pepper. Add salt to milk and pour over mixture. Place 
baking dish uncovered in oven and bake 45 minutes at 345 de- 
grees F. Serves six. 

Mrs. Brown Murdock, Iredell County 


CORE SOUND OYSTER STEW 


This is a very old recipe but still in use today. 

2 quarts oysters , teaspoon black pepper 
1 cup water Salt to taste 
, pound salt pork (cubed) 


Wash oysters well and place in saucepan. Cube pork and fry 
until crisp and light brown. Add pork and drippings to oysters. 
Bring to a boil. Add corn meal dumplings if desired, and cook 15 
to 30 minutes or until done. Serves 6 generously. 

Mrs. Lydia Wade, Carteret County 


a7 


PICKLED OYSTERS 


Take one gallon oysters and lift them out of juice. Wash, 
strain juice and put into kettle with a little salt. When juice 
comes to a boil, put in oysters and stew them until firm and 
white. Take from liquor. Add to boiling liquor: 


1% pints vinegar 1 ounce black pepper (whole) 
1 ounce allspice (whole) 1 ounce mace (whole) 
Let boil up and set aside to cool. When cold pour over oysters. 
Mrs. John G. Wood, Chowan County 


PICKLED OYSTERS 


The following recipe has been preserved by the niece of Miss 
Marcia Albertson, Pasquotank County’s first Home Agent, who is 
now 91 years old. This recipe was considered “tried and true” 
back to Miss Marcia’s day. 


100 large oysters 2 dozen whole black peppers 
1 pint white wine vinegar 1 large red pepper broken into 
1 dozen blades of mace bits 


2 dozen whole cloves 


Put oysters, liquor and all, into a porcelain or bell-metal kettle. 
Salt to taste. Heat slowly until the oysters are very hot but not 
to boiling. Take them out with a perforated skimmer, and set 
aside to cool. To the liquor which remains in the kettle, add the 
vinegar and spices. Boil up fairly, and when the oysters are 
almost cold, pour over them scalding hot. Cover the jar in which 
they are and put away in a cool place. Next day, put the pickled 
oysters into glass cans with tight tops. Keep in the dark and 
where they are not likely to become heated. 


Mrs. J. L. Shipley, Pasquotank County 


TUNA FISH LOAF 


1 can tuna fish (small) 4 cups corn flakes 
1 small package potato chips 1 can mushroom soup 


Mix thoroughly the above ingredients. Place in well greased 
pyrex dish and bake at 350° F. for 30 minutes. This is a very 
good dish to serve hot or cold. Cut in slices. Yields six servings. 


Mrs. Joseph N. Honeycutt, Pender County 


08 


SHRIMP DIVAN 


1 box frozen asparagus or broc- Y, cup cheese 
coli (I like broccoli better) Y cup cream 
1 pound shrimp, cooked and pealed 1 egg yolk, slightly beaten 
4 tablespoons butter 1 teaspoon salt | 
3 tablespoons flour Dash each of pepper, cayenne, 
14% cups milk nutmeg, and paprika 


Cook broccoli as directed. Also cook, peel, and clean the 
shrimp. Melt butter in saucepan, add flour and stir until smooth. 
Add milk gradually, stirring constantly. Then cook and stir un- 
til thickened. Add cheese. Combine cream with egg yolk and add 
gradually, stirring constantly. Add seasonings. Cook and stir 
over low heat 2 or 3 minutes. Add shrimp. 

Arrange broccoli in shallow baking dish, cover with the shrimp 
sauce and sprinkle with paprika. Brown in broiler 2 minutes. 
Serves 4 to 6. (If you like shrimp and broccoli this is good!) 

. Judge Susie Sharp, Rockingham County 


SALMON OR TUNA FISH AND POTATO CASSEROLE 


4 cups of cubed cooked potatoes of mushroom soup 
1 cup drained salmon or tuna fish Salt and pepper to taste 
2 cups of white sauce or 1 can \%, cup butter 


Line your casserole with a layer of potatoes then a layer of 
salmon or tuna fish, etc. Add your sauce over the ingredients 
and sprinkle buttered bread crumbs on top and bake for twenty- 


five minutes at 350° F. 
Mrs. Claude W. Jeffreys, Alamance County 


MOCK TURTLE SOUP 
1 shank of beef—3 to 4 pounds 1 small can tomatoes 
4 potatoes (white) 1 large onion 
Cover well with water to cook. Let stand overnight. Skim and 
strain. When ready to use, put strained juice on stove with— 
1 tablespoon whole cloves 4 hard cooked eggs 
Salt to taste 
When ready to serve slice eggs and 3 lemons and place in bot- 
tom of dish. 
Add \ pint sherry wine 
Mrs. E. N. Elliott, Chowan County 


59 


SEA TURTLE HASH 


Sea turtle hash is definitely a “he man’s” dish from the: briny 
deep; and this recipe has been handed down in my family of Cape 
Hatteras fishermen for several generations from the sailing ves- 
sel era when men were men, but may be enjoyed without preju- 
dice, by the entire family. My mother prepared it in an old- 
fashioned, fireplace style, iron pot over a wood fire; and I don’t 
claim to compete with her for flavor and aroma but my modern 
pressure cooker certainly saves time. 

Take any sea turtle you are lucky enough to get but the eather 
ing ingredients are for a smaller size sea turtle. If your turtle 
is too large for one meal, by all means can or freeze it for a 
future feast. 

Chop off the turtle’s head. Cut the complete legs away from the 
shell and entrails. Scald legs with boiling water; remove outside 
layer of skin and nails. Rinse legs in cold water. Place whole legs 
in pressure cooker with one quart of water and a teaspoon of soda. 

Process at 15 pounds pressure for 30 minutes. Remove turtle 
legs from water and cool. Dice 14, pound salt pork into small 
pieces and fry in a heavy cook pot. Remove salt pork. Slightly 
saute’ 4 medium onions in salt pork fat. Add the following: 


Salt pork diced into small pieces, in- 
1 cup of water cluding black fat and gristle, 
4 pounds diced white potatoes but remove the bones. 

Turtle legs which have been Salt and pepper to taste 


Cover and cook until potatoes are tender and gravy is down to 
minimum. 
Delicious served with young green spring onions, a tossed 
salad, and hot cornbread cakes, to say nothing of youpon tea. 
Mrs. Odessa Wasili, Currituck County 


60 





BAKED CHEESE 


This recipe has been in the Bailey family for at least five 
generations. They used to make it for a special treat at Thanks- 
giving and at Christmas. 


Y, pound cheese 3 tablespoons sugar 
Dry bread crumbs Y% cup milk 


Cube cheese and place a layer in bottom of baking dish. Next 
cover with bread crumbs, and sprinkle with a little of the sugar. 
Alternate layers of cheese, bread crumbs and sugar, until all are 
used up, ending with bread crumbs. Cover with milk and bake in 
moderate oven until cheese is melted and brown on top. | 

Mrs. Harry Bailey, Sr., Mitchell County 


CHEESE BALLS 


Mash with fork 2 packages Cream Cheese. Soften with salad 
dressing. Add one small onion, finely grated. Season with salt and 
pepper and garlic salt if desired. Roll into small balls, then roll 


in finely chopped pecans. | 
Kathleen J. Eakins, Pender County 


CHEESE BAKE 
(Original Recipe) 


4 eggs 8 slices bread 
1 cup milk ', teaspoon salt 
1 cup grated Cheddar cheese 14 teaspoon black pepper 


Beat eggs until yolks and whites are well mixed. Combine with 
cheese, milk, salt, pepper. Butter square baking dish or pan. 
Place 4 slices bread in bottom of dish. Pour over bread 12 cheese 
mix. Repeat. Bake in moderate oven 3/4, hour, or until firm 


through center and brown on top. Serve with tomato slices. 
; Mrs. Jeanette Baucom, Gaston County 


61 


MACARONI CASSEROLE 


Y, six ounce box macaroni 2 beaten eggs 

2 cups cooked tomatoes 1, cup diced green pepper 
1 cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon minced onion 
1 cup diced cheese 14 cup melted butter 


Boil macaroni in salted water. Drain and add above ingredients. 
Bake in greased casserole 35 minutes at 350°F. 
Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


MACARONI AND CHEESE 


/ 2 cups macaroni 1 pint sweet milk 
Y, pound cheese Y% cup butter 
1 cup soda crackers , teaspoon black pepper 
crushed Salt 
2 eggs 


Cook macaroni in water until tender. Place layer of macaroni, 
cheese and cracker crumbs in baking dish, continuing until all is 
used. Thoroughly beat eggs. Add milk. Pour over macaroni, 
sprinkle pepper and salt. Dot with butter, bake in moderate oven 
for 30 minutes. 
Mrs. W. J. Cotton, Harnett County 


MACARONI WITH CHEESE 


1 cup macaroni 4 chopped or grated cheese 
14% cups white sauce Buttered crumbs 


Break macaroni into pieces 1 inch long, boil, strain, and rinse. 
Stir cheese into hot, well-seasoned white sauce and put macaroni 
and sauce in buttered baking dish in layers. Sprinkle buttered 
crumbs on top and brown well in hot oven. (400°F.) Serves 6. 

Mrs. Emmett Winslow, Hertford County 


CHEESE SPREAD 


Grind together: 1 tablespoon vinegar 
Y, pound cheese 1 tablespoon tomato catsup 
1 small bunch parsley 1 tablespoon Worchestershire 
1 small onion sauce 

Add: Salt to taste 


1 tablespoon olive oil 


Cream as a paste. When desired add salad dressing. 
Mrs. A. R. Currin, Granville County 


62 


CHEESE-TOMATO-GREEN PEPPER SANDWICH 


8 slices of bread Mayonnaise 

‘4 pound medium sharp cheese Salt 
(sliced) Pepper 

4 small tomatoes (sliced) Sugar 


1 green pepper (cut in rings) 


Spread each slice of bread with mayonnaise, and cover four 
slices with strips of cheese. Arrange on baking sheet and place 
under boiler approximately 3 minutes or until cheese melts and 
the 4 slices of bread spread with mayonnaise are slightly toasted. 

Remove from oven. Quickly place sliced tomatoes over toasted 
cheese. Season, to taste, with salt, pepper, and sugar. Put 2 or 3 
green pepper rings over tomato and top with second slice of 


b “ ° ° 
read Mrs. G. P. Wilkinson, Jr., Granville County 


CHEESE STRAWS 


', pound butter (not quite as , pound cheese, grated 
much if you use margarine) 14 teaspoon salt 
Y, pound flour, plain Cayenne pepper 
Weigh all ingredients. Have butter and cheese at room temp- 
erature. Mix as for pie crust so that it just will stick together. 
(May be made as biscuit or straws. If biscuit: Roll to 14 inch 
thick. Cut with inside of doughnut cutter and when cooked are 
crisp all through) 
Put mixture into a cookie press. Make straws about 1 inch wide 
and 2 inches long. Bake at 400° F. for 15 minutes. This tempera- 


ture and time may vary. Do not overcook. 
Martha Crowell, Granville County 


CHEESE SOUFFLE 

4 tablespoons fat (I use butter) 4 cup grated cheese 

1 cup sweet milk 3 eggs (whites and yokes beaten 

, teaspoon salt separately) 

4 tablespoons flour 

Melt butter, add flour and mix well. Add milk and cook until 
thick, stiring constantly. When thick add salt and grated 
cheese, cool and add the well beaten egg yolks. Then fold in lightly 
the stiffly beaten whites. Pour into a buttered baking dish. 
Set this in a large pan and pour hot water around it to an inch or 


so in depth. Bake in moderate oven (350 degrees) for one hour. 
Mrs. G. W. Dawson, Guilford County 


63 


CHEESE SOUFFLE 


1 cup white sauce Paprika 
2 large eggs Salt 
1 cup grated cheese Mustard, red pepper 


Pour hot white sauce over beaten egg yolks, add cheese and 
allow to cool. Add paprika, salt, red pepper and mustard to taste. 
Combine with beaten egg whites, pour in buttered casserole and 
bake over hot water for 45 minutes in moderate oven. (For large 
casserole use double quantity.) 

Mrs. John Carpenter, Catawba County 


PIMENTO CHEESE SANDWICH SPREAD 


4 pound American or mild cheese Y, cup mayonnaise 
1 small (4 ounce) jar pimento 


When cheese is softened to room temperature, grate or mash 
until creamy. Pour pimento with liquid from jar and mash with 
fork until fine. Combine cheese and pimento, add 14 cup mayon- 
naise, salt and pepper to taste. Cream or mix until fluffy and 
spread on bread. 

Mrs. W. M. Fulp, Stokes County 


BREADED EGGS 


Hard boil one-half dozen eggs, cut into slices, dip each slice 
into raw, well beaten egg. Then mix in bread crumbs and fry in 
butter. | 

Mrs. Roy 8S. Redding, Stokes County 


EGGS—DIXIE STYLE 


6 ears corn or 2 cups Y) cup sweet milk 
(drained canned corn) 4 teaspoon sugar 

Y, cup flour Y, teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 4 teaspoon pepper 


Grate ears of corn; stir into well sifted flour. Add beaten egg 
yolks and sweet milk. Season with salt, sugar, and pepper. Beat 
egg whites stiff and fold into the mixture. Cook as you would 
pancakes—not more than three inches across, but rather thick. 
When browned on both sides arrange on a platter and drop a 
poached egg on each cake. Serve immediately with any good 
spiced pickle. 

Mrs. Graham Harrington, Harnett County 


64 


DEVILED EGGS 


Boil 6 eggs 12 minutes. Place in cold water and peel. Cut length- 
wise, take out the yolk and mash real smooth with a fork. Add 1 
teaspoon sugar, salt, and pepper to taste. Chip 1 sweet cucumber 
pickle real fine. Add 1 tablespoon of the vinegar from the pickles 
and enough salad dressing to make the eggs spread smooth. Put 
this mixture back in the egg whites. Add a little paprika on 
each ege. 


Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


OMELET—VERY FINE 


This recipe was taken from a cookbook “Housekeeping in the 
Blue Grass” published in Paris, Kentucky, January 1, 1875, by 
the ladies of the “Missionary Society” of the Southern Pres- 
byterian Church, Paris, Kentucky. 

Nix eggs, beaten separately; 1 tumbler of sweet milk, reserve 
about one-fourth, into which stir one tablespoon flour; when the 
milk boils, stir in the paste, add salt, and about one tablespoon of 
butter ; put aside to cool. Mince a little ham; chop fine some pars- 
ley and thyme, a spoonful of each, and two of ham; stir the 
yellows, ham and herbs into thickened milk, adding the well 
beaten six whites. Grease the skillet; bake in the stove. You can 
leave out ham and herbs if you choose. 

Mrs. M. B. Stephenson, Rothampton County 

Note: Testing Committee suggested to substitute grated 
cheese (14 cup) for ham and herbs. Put skillet on medium heat 
while preparing omelet and let omelet set on stove 3 to 4 minutes 
before putting in oven. This sets egg. Bake 350 degrees about 10 
to 15 minutes. Use 14 cup as measured amount of milk in 1 
tumbler. 


OMELET 


Beat yolks and whites of 5 or 6 eggs separately; to yolks add 
4, teacup of milk, 2 tablespoons of flour, 1 teaspoon of salt and 
a dash of black pepper. Add the stiffly beaten whites and turn 
into well buttered iron pan that is hot already. Sprinkle with 
erated cheese or minced ham (2 or 8 tablespoons). When bottom 
is lightly browned fold over or set in oven a few minutes to 


brown top. Serve at once. 
Mrs. D. H. Alston, Halifax County 


65 


EGG CHEESE OMELET 


4 eggs 4 cup grated cheese 
4 tablespoons cream Salt 
4 teaspoon baking powder 


Separate eggs, beat whites stiff and add baking powder. Beat 
yolks, add cream and beat. Add salt. Pour over whites and fold. 
Have pan moderately hot with melted butter, pour in pan, then 
add cheese on top of omelet. Bake in moderate oven about five 
minutes. Fold over in plates. 

Mrs. Sam Burleson, Avery County 


GLORIFIED CREAMED EGGS 


3 hard-cooked eggs 6 slices cheese 
14% cups Mock Hollandaise sauce 6 slices ham 
6 slices hot buttered toast 6 slices tomato 


On each slice of toast place 1 slice cheese, then 1 slice ham, 
then 1 slice tomato, then 14 egg. Cut in two. Cover with Mock 
Hollandaise sauce. Serves 6. 


MOCK HOLLANDAISE SAUCE 


Gradually stir 1 cup hot medium white sauce (2 tablespoons 
butter and 2 tablespoons flour and 1 cup milk) in 3 slightly beaten 
egg yolks, blending thoroughly. Add 3 tablespoons butter, 5 table- 
spoons lemon juice and 14 teaspoon salt. Stir thoroughly. 

Mrs. E. P. Gibson, Scotland County 


STUFFED EGGS WITH SLICED CHEESE 


5 hard-cooked eggs . 4 teaspoon mustard 

3 tablespoons American cheese 1 teaspoon salt 
(grated) 1 tablespoon butter 

1 teaspoon vinegar Few grains cayenne 


1 cup white sauce 


Cut the hard-cooked eggs in halves lengthwise. Remove yolks, | 
mash. Add grated American cheese, vinegar, mustard and salt 
and a few grains of cayenne. Add melted butter. Shape in balls 
size of original yolks, refill in whites. Place in a baking dish, pour 
white sauce. Bake in an oven with buttered crumbs. Serve with 
slices of American cheese. 

Union County 


66 





QO 
2 GSS 2 fes 


ASPARAGUS LOAF 


1 No. 2 can asparagus 1 cup grated cheese 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup milk 

¥, teaspoon pepper 4 cup melted butter 

1 pimento, chopped 3 cups saltine crackers 
3 beaten eggs (crushed) 


Mix all ingredients except butter. Pour in a greased baking 
dish. Pour melted butter over top. Cook in moderate oven 14 hour. 
Mrs. Garth Lee Hill, Catawba County 


ASPARAGUS CASSEROLE 


1 cup cracker crumbs Y cup butter 

3 eggs 1 cup sweet milk 
1 cup cheese 4 teaspoon pepper 
1 can asparagus tips Y, teaspoon salt 


Beat eggs slightly and add all other ingredients except the 
butter and 14 cup cracker crumbs. Pour into buttered casserole 
and place remaining cracker crumbs and butter on top and bake 


in moderate oven until done. 
Mrs. D. C. Cole, Rutherford County 


QUEEN’S ASPARAGUS 


1 No. 2 can of asparagus ', cup blanched almonds 

4 hard-cooked eggs Bread crumbs 

Drain the asparagus well. Place 14 of it in a greased baking 
dish which has a layer of bread crumbs. Cover with a layer of 
sliced hard-boiled eggs and sprinkle with 14 cup almonds and 
a little salt. Cover with boiling cream sauce: 

2 tablespoons butter 1 cup hot milk 

2 tablespoons flour 4 teaspoon salt 

Sprinkle the top with bread crumbs and build another layer, 
asparagus, eggs, almonds, salt and white sauce and bread crumbs 


67 


dotted with butter. Bake until it boils through and the crumbs 
are light brown. To vary this dish, use cream of mushroom soup 
in place of the white sauce. It is also delicious to have a little 
cheese sprinkled over the top before baking. 


Scotland County 


BOSTON BAKED BEANS 


Mrs. Lassie Kelly, operator of Kelly’s Tea Room in Franklin 
and sister of the well known North Carolina worker of adult 
education, Miss Elizabeth Kelly, is known for her good food to 
the many tourists who pass through North Carolina. One of the 
several dishes is Boston Baked Beans. The Kelly’s love for read- 
ing explains how the recipe came about. Miss Kelly found it in 
the book, ‘‘We Took to the Woods” by Louise Dickinson Rich. She 
tried the recipe and liked it so much that she has used it for 
a number of years. 

Two generous cups dry beans. Soak overnight and put on to 
boil early in the morning. When skins curl] off they have boiled 
long enough. Then put in bottom of bean pot or iron kettle with 
a tight fitting lid, place on top of beans a six by eight inch square 
of salt pork. 


4 cup sugar 1 large onion 
4 cup molasses 1 teaspoon dry mustard 


Put beans on top of the above mixture, and enough hot water 
to cover only. Cook in oven slowly from 9:30 until supper time. 


Mrs. Alice Ray, Macon County 


BAKED PEPPER RELISH 


6 large bell peppers (2 red, 4 cup salad oil (olive oil 
2 green and 2 yellow) prefered) 
1 clove of garlic Juice of 2 lemons 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Bake peppers until the skins slip off easily. After cooling, slip 
off skins and remove all seeds. Cut in strips about 14 inch wide. 
Prepare a dressing of oil, garlic and lemon juice seasoned with 
salt and pepper to taste. Pour over pepper strips. Toss until all 
is well mixed. Remove garlic before serving. This is a very pretty 
as well as very tasty dish served with cold meats. 


Mrs. John Guigou, Burke County 


68 


BOSTON BAKED BEANS 


I received this when I attended the National Home Demonstra- 
tion Council meeting in August, 1953. 

One pound white pea beans (yellow eyes or kidney beans may 
be substituted) ; soak overnight and parboil until skins crack 
when blown on. Drain (although some say “no” as valuable 


vitamins are lost); Place into a brown earthenware bean pot 
and add: 


1 teaspoon salt 1 two-inch cube (or more) 
2 teaspoons sugar Salt pork scored 
Y% cup or more molasses 


Add hot water to cover and replenish during baking. Bake 
about 8 hours. 

One good Yankee cook says she always uses maple syrup in- 
stead of molasses and one a teaspoon of mustard. 


Mrs. R. L. Cansler, Transylvania County 


CORN PUDDING 
To 1 quart of tender cut corn, add: 


2 or 3 eggs, beaten 1 teaspoon salt 
1 tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons sugar 


Mix well. Add enough milk to mix well. Put a lump of butter, 
the size of an egg (4 tablespoon” top. Bake in slow to medium 
oven 24 to 60 minutes. 

Mrs. F. C. Willey, Gates County 


GREEN CORN FRITTERS OR CAKES 


Grate the corn, and allow an egg and a half for every cupful, 
with a tablespoonful of milk or cream. Beat the eggs well, add 
the corn by degrees, beating very hard; salt to taste; put a 
tablespoonful of melted butter to every pint of corn; stir in the 
milk, and thicken with just enough flour to hold them together 
—say a tablespoonful for every two eggs. 

You may fry in hot lard, as you would fritters, but a better 
plan is to cook upon a griddle, like batter cakes. Test a little first, 
to see that it is of the right consistency. 

Eaten at dinner or breakfast, these always meet with a cordial 
welcome. 

Mrs. J. L. Shipley, Pasquotank County 


69 


CORN 


2 teaspoons fat 2 cups corn (cooked) 

2 teaspoons onion (chopped) 1 teaspoon salt 

2 teaspoons pepper (red or green Y% cup milk (rich milk) 
chopped) Y% cup cubed cheese 


Brown onions and pepper in fat. Add cooked corn and simmer 
a few minutes. Then add salt, milk and cheese and stir over low 
heat until thick. 

Red and green peppers mixed makes a very colorful dish. 


Mrs. Jack A. Funderburk, Union County 


BAKED IRISH POTATOES 


Wash and grease medium size potatoes. Wrap in tin foil paper. 
Place in oven and cook for 30 minutes at 400° F. Then reduce heat 
to 300° F. and cook until soft. Cut potato in half and add butter. 
Serve hot. 


Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


CAILLIETTE 
(Stuffed Cabbage or Swiss Chards) 
Large cabbage or Swiss chard 1 cup warm sweet milk 
leaves 2 eggs slightly beaten 
3 cups stale bread crumbs Salt and pepper to taste 
1 cup grated Cheddar or Swiss Dash of nutmeg 
cheese Chicken or beef broth 


Prepare cabbage or Swiss chard leaves by slicing off thick ribs 
of leaves, being careful not to break the leaves. Pour boiling 
water over leaves and let stand until pliable. 

Pour the warm milk over bread crumbs, add eggs, cheese and 
seasoning. Mix well. Place one heaping tablespoon of the mixture 
on each leaf. Fold in sides first; then roll and fasten with tooth- 
pick or tie with string. Drop in boiling broth and boil gently for 
14 hour or until leaf is cooked tender. Instead of boiling, these 
may be placed in a covered baking dish, covered with tomato 
sauce and baked slowly until tender. 

A substitute for the cheese would be one cup of sausage and 
only one egg. This should be cooked in the broth rather than 
baked. 

Mrs. John Guigou, Burke County 


70 


CORN OYSTERS 


This recipe was used in hotels and homes, especially for Sunday 
morning breakfast with fried chicken, over 100 years ago. 
1 cup raw corn, grated from cobs , cup flour or '4 cup, (if to be 


1 egg, well-beaten fried in deep fat) 
Salt and pepper 


Drain corn thoroughly, add other ingredients. Drop by spoon- 
fuls and fry in deep fat, or cook on hot, well-greased griddle. 
These should be the size of large oysters. 

Mrs. David H. Harris, Montgomery County 


DRIED TABLE CORN 


Boil corn on the cob until milk will not run when a grain is 
broken. Cut grains from cob and dry in sun. Soak overnight 
before using. To serve, simmer and season well with butter or 


meat drippings. Mrs. Jim R. Bell, Cabarrus County 


CREAMED BEANS 


Cook 1 pint navy beans. Pour off most of water and add 1 pint 
tomatoes, 1 cup sweet cream plus 1 tablespoon sugar, and salt and 
pepper to taste. One or two onions may be added. Set in oven 


to brown. Mrs. Duncan Holder, Harnett County 


STUFFED CABBAGE WITH SAUSAGE 


After removing the outside leaves of a medium sized head of 
cabbage, place in cold water for thirty minutes to freshen. Then 
for 10 minutes place cabbage head, which had been tied up in a 
cheese cloth, in a vessel of boiling water (enough to cover.) This 
softens leaves and prevents breaking when turned back. Remove 
from vessel and cloth and carefully turn leaves back one at a 
time until the center of head is reached. Beginning at the center, 
stuff cooked sausage between leaves, holding in cheese cloth 
and cook in boiling water from 30 to 45 minutes. When tender 
remove from water and cloth, drain, place on meat platter and 
pour white sauce over the cabbage head. A dash of red pepper 
or paprika gives it an attractive appearance. Slice or cut in 
wedge-shaped sections to serve. 

Mrs. Mack Holder, Harnett County 


71 


SYRIAN CABBAGE ROLLS 


This is a recipe my mother brought with her from Syria. Now, 
I substitute ground beef in place of lamb, because my family 
does not like lamb. This can also be cooked in the modern pres- 
sure cooker. My mother had us rolling cabbage leaves from 
the time we were 6 years old. They are certainly worth the 
trouble, for they are delicious and nutritious. 


1 small cabbage head 1 cupful raw rice 
1 pound finely chopped lamb 144 teaspoon salt 
1 egg Y, teaspoon pepper 


Boil cabbage in salted water until the leaves are soft enough 
to roll without breaking. Drain, and when cool enough to handle, 
cut the leaves into squares of about 6 inches. Mix the lamb, rice, 
onion, salt, pepper and egg in a mixing bowl. Put a heaping tea- 
spoonful of the mixture on each square of cabbage and roll 
into rolls as nearly finger thickness as is possible. Have ready 
a large kettle of boiling water and put into it a collander to keep 
the rolls off the bottom of the kettle, as they burn easily. Lay 
the rolls carefully into the collander, with enough water to 
cover them. Cover and boil gently for 45 minutes or until rice 
is done. Serve with drawn butter sauce or tomato sauce. 


Mrs. Prince Ibraham, Forsyth County 


CARROT SOUFFLE 


Melt 2 tablespoons butter, add 3 tablespoons flour and blend 
well. Add 2 cups mashed cooked carrots and 8 egg yolks. Season 
to taste with salt, a few grains pepper, a suggestion of mace 
and 1 teaspoon of sugar. Stir constantly until well blended. Cool 
and fold in three stiffly beaten egg whites. Turn into buttered 
individual baking dishes, place in a pan of hot water and bake 
about 20 minutes in a moderate oven, 350° F. 

Mrs. J. H. Johnson, Robeson County 


IRISH POTATO AND GARDEN PEA STEW 


The recipe below has been used in our family as long as I can 
remember. To me this recipe is one of the family favorites. My 
mother used it when all the family was together because she 
could always stretch the first new vegetables until there would 
be enough to serve the whole family. If you have a small family 


(2 


and have just enough of these vegetables for the family dinner 
and company comes unexpectedly it is a good recipe for stretch- 
ing the dinner. 


2 cups fresh tender garden peas 1% cups diced cured ham 
1 quart new white potatoes 14 teaspoon salt ( amount 
(about 1 inch in diameter) depends upon salt in ham) 


Put all these in pot together with enough water to completely 
cover vegetables. Cook until about half done. Add the pastry 
which has been made by mixing the following: 


1 cup flour (Amount depends on kind of 
1 tablespoon shortening flour as some flour absorbs 
About 2 or 3 tablespoons water more water than others) 


Mix flour and shortening together. Add water a little at the 
time until dough is a good texture for rolling. Roll to about 14 
inch thick. Cut the pastry into small pieces, add to the vege- 
tables and cook until done. A sprinkle of black pepper may be 
added if desired. 

Mrs. David Beaman, Wilson County 


POTATO NUT CROQUETTES 


The following recipe was given to me by an elderly lady in 
Georgia. She and her husband moved to Georgia from Chicago 
where they were social workers for more than twenty-five years. 
Their farm contained several acres of pecan trees. She probably 
developed this recipe. 

Beat slightly 2 eggs, add 2 tablespoons cream and 1 cup soft 
bread crumbs. To this add one cup hot mashed white potatoes, 
add 1 cup ground nuts, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 tablespoon grated 
celery, and 1 teaspoon onion. Shape and bake until brown. 

Mrs. T. L. Anthony, Wilson County 


SQUASH PATTIES 


¥Y, cup milk 24 cup cooked squash 
1 tablespoon sugar 1 egg 
Y, teaspoon salt Enough flour to make a batter 


Mix all ingredients together and drop by teaspoonfuls in deep 
fat. (This is a good recipe for those who do not care for stewed 
squash). 

Mrs. Joe T. Funderburk, Union County 


73 


SQUASH AU GRATIN 


6 small yellow squash 34 cup grated cheese 

‘4 cup onion (chopped) 4 cup chopped green pepper 
2 tablespoons butter Y, teaspoon salt 

2 tablespoons flour Paprika 

4 cup milk 3 tablespoons bread crumbs 


', cup liquid from cooked squash _ 


Cut up squash and onion and cook in small amount of water 
until tender. Drain squash, but save the liquid. Melt the butter, 
add flour and gradually the 14 cup milk and 1% cup liquid from 
the squash. Cook until sauce is thick, as heavy cream. Add salt, 
14, cup of cheese, green pepper and squash. Pour into buttered 
baking dish. Top with remaining cheese, buttered crumbs, 
sprinkle with paprika. Bake at 350° F. until brown. 

Mrs. J. T. Watkins, Granville County 
Recipe also sent in from Robeson County 


SQUASH-CHEESE DELIGHT 


6 small yellow squash 4 cup grated cheese 

2 tablespoons butter Y, cup liquid from cooked squash 
2 tablespoons flour , teaspoon salt 

Y, cup sweet milk Paprika 


Cut up squash and cook in small amount of boiling salted water 
until tender. Drain squash and mash fine with potato masher— 
save liquid. Melt the butter, add flour, and gradually the milk 
and 14 cup liquid from squash. Keep stirring and let cook until 
the sauce is thick as heavy cream. Add the salt and cheese. Mix 
sauce and squash. Pour into a buttered baking dish. Top with 
buttered crumbs and bake in moderate oven until brown. 

Robeson County 


TOMATO PUDDING 


This recipe was handed down by Mrs. Virginia Lasater, 
mother of Mrs. W. B. Lasater of Broadway. This was Mrs. Vir- 
ginia Lasater’s original recipe and has been used by Mrs. W. B. 
Lasater for around 30 years. 


4 cups bread crumbs Y, cup butter 
1% cups sugar 1 teaspoon black pepper 
'Y, cup vinegar 4 teaspoon salt 


1 pint tomatoes 

Mix thoroughly and cook. 1 hour at 300° F. 
| Harnett County 

74 


SQUASH SOUFFLE 


1% pounds yellow squash 2 tablespoons sugar 


1 small cnion 2 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon salt ', teaspoon white pepper 

1 cup toasted bread crumbs Bread crumbs to cover top 
2 eggs 


Cook squash and onion in boiling salted water until tender. 
(Chop squash and onion). Drain off liquid and mash fine, add 
butter, sugar, pepper—beat whole eggs until mixed and add 
to squash mixture, stirring quickly until well mixed. Add toast 
crumbs and stir well. Pour into buttered casserole or baking 
dish. Put uncooked bread crumbs on top of squash, dot with 
butter and bake in oven until brown on top. 


Mrs. J. H. Johnson, Robeson County 


SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


3 cups sweet potatoes 2 cups sweet milk 

(grated, raw) 4 tablespoons butter melted 
2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon each cinnamon, 
4 eggs cloves, and allspice 


Peel and grate potatoes. Add milk, sugar, eggs, butter and 
spices. Pour into well greased baking dish. Bake until done. If 
you wish, part of the whites may be saved for a meringue. If 
so, add 1 cup coconut to the meringue. 


Mrs. Claude Stamey, Mitchell County 


SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


This recipe was used by the late Governor Charles Brantley 
Aycock’s family. Aycock was governor of North Carolina from 
1900-1904. It has been passed down and is still being used today 
by his family. 

2 large potatoes grated 4 cup black walnuts or pecans 

4 pound butter 3 eggs 
34 pound sugar 

Cream sugar and butter; add well beaten eggs, then potatoes, 
little milk. Mix well and add wine, walnuts and spices to taste. 
Place in buttered dish and let bake in moderate oven (350° F) 
until brown or about 114 hours. Do not stir. 


Mrs. Walton Aycock, Wayne County 


79 


POTATO RECIPE—YOU NAME IT? ? 


6 medium size baked or boiled Pinch salt 
sweet potatoes Juice 1 lemon 
Y, cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
¥Y cup white syrup 2 tablespoons butter 
¥, cup nuts Dash of cinnamon, spice and 
2 cups raisins nutmeg 


Slice potatoes, line baking dish, sprinkle with 14 the nuts 
and raisin, add another layer of potatoes and other 14 of nuts 
and raisins. Dot with butter, pour syrup over, sprinkle sugar 
and spices, add lemon juice and vanilla, bake in moderate oven 
(350° F.) until slightly brown. 

Mrs. Alma Bullock, Columbus County 


SWEET POTATO MARSHMALLOW CASSEROLE 


314 cups sweet potatoes 4, cup light cream 
2 tablespoons butter 10 to 12 marshmallows 
1 teaspoon salt 


Boil potatoes in jackets until tender when pierced with fork. 
Peel and cut into 14 inch slices and arrange in a buttered bak- 
ing dish. Pour cream over the potatoes, season with the butter 
and salt. Arrange marshmallows over the top; place in a mod- 
erate oven (350° F) and bake for 20 minutes or until marsh- 
mallows are golden brown and the cream and butter have 
blended and thickened. 

Columbus County 


SWEET POTATO SOUFFLE 


4 medium or 3 large baked VY, cup pecans 
sweet potatoes 4 cup raisins 
1 cup dark brown sugar 1 teaspoon allspice 
14% cups butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y, cup cream (sweet) Marshmallows 


Bake or boil potatoes until tender. Press through a vegetable 
press or mash well. Add butter, cream, and brown sugar to 
potatoes and beat until light and fluffy. Add allspice and vanilla. 
Mix well. Add pecans and raisins and pour into buttered baking 
dish. Top with marshmallows. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.) 
until souffle is set and marshmallows browned delicately. Serve 
at once. 

Mrs. Paul Page, Columbus County 


76 


ORANGE SWEET POTATOES 


Boil six medium size sweet potatoes, peel, quarter, and put 
In casserole or baking dish. 


Cook the following sauce until it thickens: 


1 cup fresh orange juice Y, cup brown sugar 
2 tablespoons grated rind Y; cup white sugar 
1 tablespoon cornstarch Pinch salt 


3 tablespoons melted butter 


Pour sauce over potatoes. Place in oven until thoroughly 
heated. Transylvania County 


SWEET POTATO PUFFS 
This recipe dates back to 1876. 


Stir 2 cupfuls of mashed potatoes then add: 
2 tablespoons of melted butter 2 eggs, well beaten separately 
4 teaspoon salt to a fine, light 6 tablespoons cream 
and creamy consistency, 4 tablespoons sugar 


Beat all ingredients well and lightly together; pile it in rocky 
form on a dish, bake in a quick oven until nicely colored. It 
will become quite light. 

Mrs. John Baker, Hoke County 


SWEET POTATO SOUFFLE 


2 cups cooked and mashed 2 eggs 
sweet potatoes l, cup raisins 
1 cup hot milk 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
', teaspoon salt Y, cup chopped walnuts 
2 teaspoons sugar Marshmallows 


2 tablespoons butter 

Leftover or baked sweet potatoes may be used. Press through 
a vegetable press or ricer, or mash well. Scald the milk, and 
dissolve the sugar and salt in it; add the butter, stirring until 
melted. Add this mixture to the potatoes, and mix and beat un- 
til light and fluffy. Separate the eggs. Beat yolks and add the 
potatoes; add the nutmeg, raisins, and nuts. Beat whites stiff, 
eut and fold slightly into the potatoes, pour into a buttered 
baking dish. Quickly arrange the marshmallows one half inch 
apart on top with raisins in between the marshmallows. Bake 
in a moderate oven until the souffle is set and the marshmallows 


are basted delicately. Serve at once. 
Marjorie Ward, Columbus County 


17 


GLAZED SWEET POTATOES 


4 large potatoes 1 cup brown sugar 
Y, cup hot water ', cup butter 
Pinch of salt 


Boil potatoes until almost done, peel and cut in quarters 
lengthwise. Place in a buttered baking dish. Make a syrup of 
the sugar, butter, water and salt, and pour over the potatoes. 
Bake in a moderate oven until the potatoes are brown, basting 
often with the syrup. If necessary, add a small amount of boil- 
ing water. When ready to serve, sprinkle with chopped pecans. 

Mrs. Doris Lenard, Columbus County 


CANDIED YAMS 


6 yams cooked and peeled 4 tablespoons butter 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup water 

Y, cup sugar 

Slice yams and arrange in a shallow casserole; sprinkle with 
sugar and cinnamon, dot with butter and pour water over all. 
Cover and bake in moderate oven (350° F) for 30 minutes. Re- 
move cover and bake 15 minutes. Makes 6 servings. 

Mrs. Carl Stephens, Columbus County 


MASHED YAMS 


6 small or 4 medium yams 2 tablespoons butter or margarine 
1 teaspoon salt Y, cup hot milk 


Boil yams in Jackets until easily pierced with fork. Peel, mash, 
add butter, salt and milk and beat with fork until light. Makes 
4 servings. 

Mrs. Neil Stanley, Columbus County 


YAM SWEET POTATOES 


Y% pint thick cream 6 sweet potatoes 
2 ripe mashed bananas 


Boil the sweet putatoes until quite soft. Mash while hot. Add 
thick cream and 2 ripe mashed bananas for every 6 potatoes. 
Mix well. Place in buttered baking dish and cover with mashed 
marshmallows. 

To be served with roast beef, pork or fowl. 

Mrs. J. M. Burchette, Wilkes County 


78 





MOLDED CHICKEN SALAD 


1 tablespoon gelatin 1 cup mayonnaise 

4 cup cold water Juice of 1 lemon 

2 eups chicken stock 1, cup tartar sauce or relish 
1 chicken, cooked and cubed 1 teaspoon salt 

2 cups celery, cut in small pieces 1 cup nuts (optional) 


6 eggs, hard-cooked and mashed 


Soak gelatin in cold water. Dissolve in hot stock. Cool. Add 
chicken, celery, eggs, mayonnaise, lemon juice, tartar sauce, 
salt, and nuts. Place in molds, which have been greased with 
salad oil. Serve on lettuce with dressing, and garnish with green 
pepper rings. Makes enough to divide with your neighbors. 

Mrs. E. P. Gibson, Scotland County 


CHICKEN SALAD 


1 well-finished hen, cooked and 3 tablespoons of broth from chicken 
cut very fine 1 cup of salad dressing (or enough 

2 cups of celery, diced fine to moisten mixture) 

1 cup of cucumber pickle, 2 tablespoons salt (or season to 
chopped fine taste) 


3 boiled eggs, cut fine 
Mix chicken, celery, pickle, eggs, broth and salad dressing in 
mixing bowl. Season to taste. Mix well. Serve on crisp lettuce 


Ee a Mrs. J.T, Watkins, Granville County. 


EASTER EGG SALAD 


Peel as many hard boiled eggs as desired. Dip eggs in different 
colored egg dye (foodcoloring) to have variety of colors. Then 
eut eggs in half lengthwise, devil the yolks and fill the halves 
of whites. Press back together. Arrange on beds of shredded 


lettuce, endive, or slaw to form “nest” for eggs. 
Mrs. Stuart Turlington, Harnett County 


79 


MEAT SALAD MOLD 


1—12 ounce can luncheon meat 2 tablespoons lemon juice 
or left over ground ham 2 tablespoons prepared mustard 
2 tablespoons plain gelatin 2 tablespoons grated onion 
Y, cup cold water Y, cup chopped celery 
144 cups tomato juice Y, cup chopped sweet pickle 
3 ounce package cream cheese Y, cup mayonnaise 


Cut meat in one-half inch cubes. Soften gelatin in cold water. 
Heat tomato juice to boiling, pour over gelatin; stir until dis- 
solved. Mash cheese; blend with lemon juice and mustard. Slowly 
add tomato juice mixture to cheese stirring continuously; cool. 
Mix together meat, onion, celery, pickle with mayonnaise. When 
gelatin mixture begins to thicken fold in meat mixture. 

Rinse 8-inch ring mold with cold water, pour mixture into 
mold and chill until firm. If decorated mold is desired, reserve 
several pieces each of pickle, celery and meat to place in mold 
before pouring in mixture. When ready to serve, unmold to 
plate and fill center with Indian cold slaw or shredded lettuce. 

Transylvania County 


OLD-FASHIONED POTATO SALAD 


4 cups diced cooked potatoes 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
1 onion, grated Y, teaspoon salt 
Y, cup chopped celery Y, teaspoon tarragon 
2 tablespoons chopped green 2 hard-cooked eggs 
pepper 2 tablespoons chopped parsley 


VY, cup mayonnaise 


Combine potatoes, onion, celery, green pepper. Thin mayon- 
naise with lemon juice, add paprika, salt, tarragon, blend. Add 
to vegetables. Stir lightly. Garnish with sliced hard-cooked eggs, 
chopped celery. Serve on lettuce or bed of water cress. Makes 8 


servings. iooi i 
Us Mrs. E. B. Riggins, Union County 


HOT SLAW 
1, cabbage, shredded 2 egg yolks beaten slightly 
% cup cold water 4 teaspoon salt 
Y, cup hot vinegar 1 tablespoon butter 


Mix egg yolks, cold water, butter, vinegar, and salt. Cook 
over hot water, stirring constantly, until thickened. Then add 
cabbage, and serve when heated. 

Mrs. George M. Sigmon, Catawba County 


80 


GREEN PEPPER SALAD 


Cut the stems from two large sweet green peppers, then re- 
move seeds and wash thoroughly. Take a quantity of cream 
cheese sufficient to fill the peppers and add to it, mixing well, 
14 cupful of chopped nuts. Fill the peppers with this mixture 
and set in a cool place until just before serving. Then cut in 
Slices. Place 1 or 2 slices on a lettuce leaf and serve individually, 
Serving a tablespoonful of mayonnaise dressing over each slice. 


Mrs. Louise Barbour, Onslow County 


COLE SLAW 
344 cups raw shredded cabbage 4, teaspoon black pepper 
2 tablespoons shredded carrots 3 tablespoons sugar 
1 tablespoon diced onion 1 teaspoon vinegar 
', teaspoon salt 3 tablespoons salad dressing 


Shred or cut with knife, cabbage and carrots. Dice onion, add 
salt, pepper, sugar, mustard and salad dressing. Toss thoroughly 
with large fork. Union County 


OLD-FASHIONED POTATO SALAD 


This recipe has been handed down by word of mouth. My 
mother, Mrs. Neill McKimmon, Flora McNeill McEachern, who 
lives in Red Springs, North Carolina, often uses it, and my 
family likes it too. It was passed to her by her mother, Mrs. 
John H. McEachern, who was Miss Mary Ann McNeill before 
marriage. This lady, my grandmother, was grown and had al- 
ready finished at old Floral College when the Civil War began. 


8 medium to large cured Irish 3 or mcre tablespoons vinegar 
potatoes, peeled and boited in 1 medium-sized onion, chopped fine 
salt water until just tender 2 hard-boiled eggs 

1 scant teaspoon prepared Salt and pepper to taste (it takes 
mustard a good deal) 


Mash drained potatoes, or put through ricer, while hot. Add 
mustard, vinegar, onion, one of the eggs (chopped fine), and 
salt and black pepper. Beat well with a fork. Taste. If not enough 
of any of the seasonings, add more. Put into serving dish and 
garnish top with other egg, either sliced or chopped fine. This 
is delicious served hot or cold. It is nice made the day before 
needed, put into baking dish, and re-heated for serving. 

Mrs. David H. Harris, Montgomery County 


81 


SOUTHERN LETTUCE 


For this dish, use the tender home-grown lettuce. After wash- 
ing, drain, then slice or shred and sprinkle with salt. Arrange 
in shallow salad bowl. Put into a pan on stove, two tablespoon- 
fuls ham gravy. Add to this 14 cup boiling water. Let come to 
rolling boil and pour over lettuce. Garnish with sliced hard- 
boiled eggs and sliced green spring onions. Most delicious with 
fried ham slices, new Irish potatoes, garden peas, and Harvard 
beets. 

Mrs. Stuart Turlington, Harnett County 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 


2 3-ounce packages cream cheese Y, cup red maraschino cherries, 
1 cup mayornaise quartered 
1 cup heavy cream, whipped Y, cup green maraschino cherries 
1 No. 2 can (2% cups) crushed quartered 
pineapple drained 214 cups diced marshmallows 


(About 24 marshmallows) 


Combine cheese and mayonnaise, blend until smooth, fold in 
whipped cream, fruit and marshmallows. Pour into 1 quart re- 
frigerator tray. Freeze until firm. Serves 8 to 10. Serve on crisp 
lettuce leaves. 

Mrs. L. C. Deaton, Montgomery County 


FROZEN FRUIT SALAD 


1 small can crushed pineapple VY, cup mayonnaise 
1 small bottle maraschino cherries, 1 cup cream, whipped 
quartered 2 tablespoons sugar 


2 or 3 bananas (diced) 


Mix all together and freeze in refrigerator tray. Serves 6. 
This may be made the day before it is to be served. 
Mrs. L. C. Deaton, Montgomery County 


GINGER ALE SALAD 


Dissolve 1 package lime gelatin in 1 cup hot water. Add 1 
cup ginger ale and chill until slightly thickened. Fold in 1 cup 
drained diced sweetened peaches and 14 cup each chopped nuts 
and diced celery. Turn into large mold or individual molds. Chill 
until firm. Unmold on crisp lettuce. Serve with plain or whipped 
cream mayonnaise. Makes 6 servings. 


82 


GINGER ALE SALAD 


3 teaspoons plain gelatin, dis- 3 tablespoons sugar 
solved in '4 cup cold water 3 tablespoons lemon juice 
1 cup boiling water to melt 2 cups ginger ale 


Mix together and place in refrigerator. When this begins to 
thicken add: 


1 cup diced pineapple 1 cup chopped celery 
1 cup white cherries 1 cup pecans 
Serve on crisp lettuce with or without mayonnaise. 
Wake County 


FRUIT SALAD 


Arrange slices of pineapple on the lettuce, and on each slice 
put a canned peach, hollow side up. Fill the hollow with a fruit 
salad dressing and on top place a maraschino cherry. A pastry 
tube may be used and the dressing put on in fancy designs. 

Mrs. Ned McLeod, Harnett County 


CRANBERRY SALAD 


2 cups ground cranberries 2 No. 2 cans of crushed pineapple 
2 cups chopped nuts (pecans or 1 cup sugar (more if desired) 
English walnuts) 2 packages of gelatin 


Wash and pick berries. Grind. Drain juice from pineapple 
and use in mixing gelatin. Also dissolve sugar in gelatin. Let 
cool and add berries and pineapple. Place in refrigerator and 
cut in squares and serve on crisp lettuce. (For dessert, serve 
with whipped cream). Serves 20. 

Mrs. Joe Whitfield, Granville County 


CHRISTMAS WREATH SALAD 


On large round salad plate arrange nicely shaped lettuce 
leaves. Around edge arrange canned pear halves with larger 
sections on outer edge. Next make a circle of thinly sliced, peel- 
ed oranges on inside of pear circle. In center pile white or red 
grapes in mound. Fill pear halves with fruit salad dressing and 
top with red cherry, and on center of each orange slice add a 


bit of dressing and top with walnut or pecan half. 
Mrs. Stuart Turlington, Harnett County 


83 


FRUIT SALAD 


1, cup mayonnaise Y, cup sliced fresh strawberries 
2 cups chopped canned fruit Or maraschino cherries 
(peaches, pineapple, pears 1 cup cream, whipped 
or any other combination) 1, cup sugar 


1 tablespoon lemon juice 


Mix the mayonnaise and lemon juice with the chopped fruits, 
add sugar to the whipped cream and fold into the fruit mixture. 
Freeze in refrigerator tray until firm. Cut into squares and 
serve on lettuce. 

Union County 


PINEAPPLE SALAD 


1 package cherry gelatin 1 cup chopped celery 
134 cup hot water Y, cup chopped walnuts 
2 packages lime gelatin 2 cups crushed pineapple drained 


3'4 cups hot water 


Dissolve cherry gelatin in hot water. Cover bottom of two 
quart mold. Chill until firm. Dissolve lime gelatin in 314 cups 
hot water—chill until partially set, then stir in celery, walnuts 
and pineapple. Pour mixture over firm cherry gelatin. Chill 
until firm. Unmold on bed of lettuce. Garnish with half slice of 
pineapple filled with a mixture of cream cheese and chopped 
walnuts. 

Mrs. C. M. Aldridge, Alamance County 


PERFECTION SALAD 


1 envelope plain gelatin , teaspoon salt 
4 cup cold water Y, cup cabbage, finely shredded 
1 cup hot water 1 cup celery, cut in small pieces 
Y%, cup mild vinegar 1 pimento, cut in small pieces 
1 tablespoon lemon juice or 2 tablespoons sweet red or 
4 cup sugar green peppers 


Soften gelatin in cold water. Add sugar, salt and hot water, 
and stir until dissolved. Add vinegar and lemon juice. Cool, and 
when mixture begins to stiffen, add remaining ingredients. Turn 
into mold that has been rinsed in cold water and chill. To serve, 
remove from mold to bed of lettuce leaves and garnish with 
mayonnaise. | 

Mrs. Rex Johnson, Harnett County 


84 


AMBROSIA SALAD 


1 quart grated coconut 1 pint strawberries or 

6 oranges bottled cherries 

4 bananas 1 cup sherry wine if strawberries 

1 pint sliced pineapple are used instead of cherrie. and 
liquid 


Cut pineapple in strips, divide oranges into their natural divi- 
sions. Cut these halves. Cut berries or cherries in halves. Sprinkle 
the bottom of a large salad bowl with coconut, then a layer of 
fruit ending with a layer of coconut on top. Sprinkle sugar over 
each layer. Pour over all the sherry, combined with the juices 
from the fruit. Garnish with whole strawberries and thin slices 
of orange, reserved. Chill and serve in punch cups with angel 
food cake, plain or sponge cake. 


Mrs. J. C. Langdon, Harnett County 


POINSETTIA SALAD 


1 package lemor. gelatin Y, cup celery 
1 small can crushed pineapple 24 cup nuts 
2 packages cream cheese Y, pint whipping cream 


1 small can pimento 


Pour 11% cups hot water over gelatin. Add crushed pineapple 
and juice. Cool. Cut pimento in small pieces and mix with cream 
cheese. Make poinsettia design in individual molds, add 1 teaspoon 
of gelatin mixture and chill until set. When gelatin mixture 
begins to jell, add cream cheese, pimento, nuts, celery and whip- 
ped cream. Fill individual molds. Serve on lettuce with salad 


dressing. 
Mrs. Garland Wilson, Catawba County 


PINEAPPLE AND CHEESE SALAD 


1 package lime gelatin 1 No. 24% can sliced pineapple 
1 cup warm water 2 3 ounce packages cream cheese 


Prepare gelatin using juice of pineapple for part of the liquid. 
Add cream cheese, beat until dissolved. Pour in molds and chill. 
Prepare lettuce. Place sliced pineapple on lettuce and then 
turn gelatin on pineapple with mayonnaise on top. Serves 6. 


Mrs. T. L. Caviness, Harnett County 


85 


JELLIED WALDORF SALAD 


1 teaspoon gelatin 1 cup celery, diced 
', cup cold water 4 cup lemon juice 
14 cup sugar 4 cup chopped nuts. 

1 cup apples, diced '4 teaspoon salt 


1 cup boiling water 


Soak gelatin in cold water about 5 minutes. Add boiling water, 
sugar and salt. Stir until thoroughly dissolved. Add lemon juice. 
Cool. When mixture begins to thicken, stir in apples and celery. 
Pour into large or individual molds that have been rinsed with 
cold water. Chill, unmold on lettuce and sprinkle with chopped 
nuts. Serve with fruit salad dressing. 


Mrs. Stuart Turlington, Harnett County 


CONGEALED FRESH CRANBERRY SALAD 
(Not Too Sweet!) 


1 tablespoon plain gelatin 1 teaspoon grated orange rind 
Y, cup orange juice—unstrained Y, cup diced celery 

2 cups cranberries Y, cup diced apple 

1 cup water 14 cup nuts 

34 cup sugar 4, teaspoon salt 


Boil sugar and water; add cranberries which have been cut 
in half. Simmer about 10 minutes. Stir in gelatin which has 
been soaked in orange juice. Cool. Stir in other ingredients. Put 
into molds. Makes six good servings. 


Judge Susie Sharp, Rockingham County 


COOKED SALAD DRESSING 


3 tablespoons butter 1 cup milk 

3 tablespyons flour 1 cup vinegar 

3 tablespoons sugar 2 eggs 

2 teaspoons salt 2 teaspoons lemon juice 


2 teaspoons dry mustard 


Mix dry ingredients, add beaten eggs, melted butter and milk. 
Then very slowly add vinegar and lemon juice. Cook in top of 
double boiler until mixture thickens; cool and beat with egg 


beater. 
Mrs. M. A. Temple, Harnett County 


86 


DIVINITY SALAD 


One envelope of gelatin dissolved in 1 cup of cold pineapple 
or fruit juice. Add 1 cup boiling juice. Let cool, not congeal. Cut 
fruit of 2 cans of pineapple, 1 cup white cherries, seeded and 
halved. One-half pound of marshmallows, 1 cup pecans, 1 quart 
cream whipped. Add gelatin first and nut mixture. Garnish with 
whipped cream and cherry. Serves 24. 


Scotland County 


FRUIT DRESSING 


Y cup sugar Juice of 1 lemon 
2 teaspoons flour Y, cup unsweetened pineapple juice 
1 egg yolk 1 cup heavy cream whipped 


Combine sugar, flour, and cook in double boiler until thick. 
Add egg yolk and juices. Cool and fold in whipped cream. 
Gladys Norris, Camden County 


DRESSING FOR CABBAGE SLAW 


Put in a saucepan 1 cup vinegar, 1 teaspoonful of mustard, 
salt and black pepper, 1 tablespoonful of sugar, a small lump 
of butter about size of walnut. While this is boiling, beat two 
eggs and stir in; keep stirring until it thickens. Then add a few 
celery seed. This quantity is sufficient for a small cabbage cut 
fine. 

Mrs. Hugh B. Bryan, Edgecombe County 


SALAD DRESSING 


2 tablespoons flour Y, teaspoon paprika 

1 cup coid water 1 teaspoon bottled horse-radish 

3 tablespoons salad oil 144 teaspoons prepared mustard 

4, cup vinegar 4 teaspoon Worchestershire sauce 
1 teaspoon salt 4 cup catsup 


1 teaspoon sugar 


Mix flour and water in a saucepan. Place over low heat, stirring 
constantly until thick and clear (about 5 minutes). Add all of the 
remaining ingredients. Beat with rotary beater until smooth 
and well blended. Store in tightly covered jar in a cool place. 


é ll each time before using. 
eee , Union County 


87 


POTATO SALAD DRESSING 


1 egg, separate yolk from white Y, cup milk 

2 teaspoons sugar Y, cup vinegar 
1 teaspoon mustard Pepper 

4 teaspoon salt 


Mix and boil all ingredients except milk. Add milk after other 
ingredients have come to a boil. Beat egg white and fold into 
mixture after removing from heat. 


Mrs. Colon Jackson, Perquimans County 


88 


PUDDINGS on 


ot er oleasoe ts 


>* 





AMBROSIA 


This was my mother’s favorite dessert at Christmas, which 
was handed down from her mother. We grew up cherishing it 
aS much as our mother did. Now my children like it as much 
as I do. They always say it doesn’t seem like Christmas until we 
have made a big bow] of “ambrosia”. It is a good bedtime snack 
when the family is gathered around the fire at Christmas time. 
We never make it except at Christmas, so I guess that’s why 
we think it is so good. 

15 oranges 1 coconut (grated) 

2 cups sugar 

Peel oranges carefully so there will not be much juice wasted. 
Cut oranges crosswise in small pieces taking out seeds as you 
come to them. Add grated coconut and sugar to oranges. Mix 
well and serve as a dessert. 

Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


APRICOT ANGEL DESSERT 


Heat 214 cups apricot nectar with 34 cup sugar and 14 tea- 
spoon salt. 

Beat 9 egg yolks well. Stir, add little of hot nectar into yolk, 
then stir yolk mixture into rest of nectar. Place over boiling 
water and cook, stirring constantly until mixture coats spoon 
into thin smooth custard. Then dissolve 4 teaspoons gelatin 
into 6 tablespoons cold water and then dissolve in hot nectar. Cool 
until mixture thickens. Fold in 114 cups heavy cream whipped 
and add 6 tablespoons well drained chopped maraschino cherries. 
Chill until almost set. Then cut large angle food cake into 4 
layers and put together with the apricot cream also on side and 
top. Decorate with 2 teaspoons chopped cherries and chopped 


almonds. Mrs. Ben Wade, Person County 


89 


APPLE DEVIL 


This recipe was given to me by my grandmother, the late 
Mrs. Henry Battle Marriott, wife of the late Dr. Marriott of 
Battleboro, N. C. She was given the recipe by her mother, Mrs. 
William Mayo Pippen of Tarboro, N. C. 

Peel and core 30 good apples. Slice them in a little cold water. 
Add equal weight of sugar, the juice and rind of two lemons 
sliced thin, two ounces of finely grated ginger and a dash of 
cayenne pepper. Boil until apples look clear. 


Mrs. D. B. Sheffield, Wilson County 


EXCELLENT BAKED APPLES 


Take 10 or 12 big juicy apples, peel and core, butter a baking 
dish and put in apples; fill centers with sugar; take 14 teacup 
of butter and tablespoon of flour, rub together until smooth; 
to this, put enough boiling water to cover each apple; grate 
over them nutmeg; bake in slow oven 1 hour or longer. Can be 
eaten with meat or used as a dessert with cream. 


Mrs. D. H. Alston, Halifax County 


APPLE ROLL 


This recipe was given to me by my grandmother, Mrs. Mar- 
shall Lee. 

Peel and cut very fine enough apples for a medium roll. This 
depends on size of apples. A large mixing bowl] full of the cut 
apples makes a medium to large roll. 

Make up pie crust. Roll out as thin as desired. Spread the 
cut apples over the rolled dough. Sprinkle some white sugar 
on apples and some bits of butter. Roll as for jelly roll and lift 
into a well greased pan. If you prefer, you can put rolled dough 
in well greased pan before putting apples on it. This saves lift- 
ing the roll with apples. 

Syrup for apple roll—Bring to a boil 

1 cup brown sugar 4 teaspoon nutmeg 


1% cups water Y, stick butter 
Y, teaspoon cinnamon 


Pour hot syrup over roll and bake in moderate oven for an 
hour—until the apples are well done and the crust a golden brown. 


Mrs. Tom Speight, Bertie County 


90 


BATTER PUDDING 


Recipe is over 100 years old. It was the favorite of Mrs. J. R. 
Johnston who lived at Zuela near Lucia in Gaston County, grand- 
mother of Mrs. Fergurson. 


1 quart sweet milk 4 tablespoons flour 
4 eggs 


Mix ingredients. Bake in cool oven (about 270° F.) until set, 
but do not overcook. Serve hot with hard sauce, the foamy kind 
(some other sweet could be used.), the hard sauce melts into 
the unsweetened pudding. 


Mrs. R. S. Fergurson, Alexander County : 


BLACKBERRY TRIFLE 


Here is a recipe from the kitchen of Mrs. R. A. Holloman, Jr. 
It was used for many years by the family of her mother, Mrs. 
H. U. Griffith. This was a favorite dessert with the family with 
the exception of one uncle who was always heard to say 
whenever the dish was served, “This dish certainly has the 
right name because it is trifling.” My mother would always re- 
ply with, “Well, the proof of the pudding is in the taste thereof.” 


1 quart blackberries (Mix cornstarch and sugar) 

3 egg yolks Small piece of butter to grease 
4 heaping tablespoons sugar pan 

‘1 heaping tablespoon cornstarch Vanilla flavoring 


Wash berries well. It is best to strain them through a large- 
holed strainer to get out most of the seeds and to mash the 
berries. Make a custard with the yolks of three eggs, sugar, 
cornstarch, and vanilla flavoring. Mix custard and berries and 
pour in a deep baking dish which has been greased. Make a 
meringue from 3 egg whites stiffly beaten using 3 tablespoons 
sugar. Add meringue and brown in moderate oven. 

Mrs. R. A. Holloman, Jr., Hertford County 


BUTTERMILK PUDDING 


3 eggs and a large tablespoon 3 cups buttermilk 
butter 1 small teaspoon of soda 
1 cup of sugar lemon flavoring 


3 tablespoons flour 


Bake in dish in moderate oven until set but not curdled. 
Mrs. R. S. Fergurson, Alexander County 


91 


CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING 


This Chocolate Bread Pudding is an original and has been in 
use for about thirty years. 


2 squares unsweetened chocolate 2 egg yolks slightly beaten 
(or 4 tablespoons cocoa) 6 slices stale bread (cut in small 
3 cups milk pieces) 
4 teaspoon salt 2 egg whites 
Y, cup brown sugar (or 1 cup 4 tablespoons sugar (butter not 
white) necessary ) 


Heat milk and cocoa in double boiler and add salt; combine 
brown sugar and egg yolks; add cocoa mixture and vanilla. Pour 
this mixture over bread. Turn into greased baking dish, place 
in pan of hot water and bake about 30 minutes or until almost 
set at 350° F. Beat egg whites with the 4 tablespoons sugar 
and pile in mounds over top. 

Mrs. W. B. Lasater, Harnett County 


CREAM PUFF SHELLS 


1 cup water 1 cup flour 
¥Y% cup butter 4 eggs 


Bring water to a boil. Add fat and when it has melted add all 
the flour at one time. Stir briskly until the mixtures leave the 
sides of the pan and forms a ball. Remove from heat and 
cool. Add unbeaten eggs one at a time. Beat each one in thor- 
oughly before adding the next. Drop from a teaspoon about 2 
inches apart on an ungreased baking sheet. Bake in a moderate- 
ly hot oven (425° F.) for about 30 minutes. Do not open door 
of oven first 15 minutes. When cool slice off top, remove any 
moist dough left in shell and fill with custard, ice cream, whip- 
ped cream, the lemon fluff filling below or any dessert filling. 


LEMON FLUFF FILLING FOR CREAM PUFFS 


1 lemon (grated rind and juice) Y, cup sugar 
3 eggs Few grains of salt 


Beat yolks until thick, add sugar, lemon juice, grated rind 
and salt. Cook over hot water until mixture thickens, stirring 
constantly. Remove from heat. When cool, fold in stiffly beaten 
egg whites. Chill and fill puffs with mixture. (This may be served 
as a dessert without the cream puffs.) 

S. Virginia Wilson, Extension Nutritionist 


92 


BOILED CUSTARD 


This is an old-fashioned dessert served with pound cake 
seventy-five or one hundred years ago. It was very popular 
served at weddings. The eggs were always separated. The whites 
were stiffly beaten and cooked until set over boiling water. It made 
a pretty serving with the white on top of the custard. To me 
as a child it was a beautiful, mouth watering dessert. It was 
served at Christmas, birthdays, weddings, and when the preach- 
er came. 


4 cups milk 1 cup sugar 
4 eggs 


Put milk in double boiler. Bring almost to boil. Beat eggs, add 
sugar. Pour some of the hot milk over egg mixture, stirring 
constantly. Put all in boiler with milk and cook until as thick as 
desired stirring until done. Take off and continue stirring for 
a few minutes. Cool and strain. This recipe needs no flour. 

Mrs. George Dew, Wilson County 


BONNEY-CLABBER, OR LOPPERED-MILK 


Set a china or glass dish of skimmed milk away in a warm 
place, covered. When it turns - i. e., becomes a smooth, firm, 
but not tough cake, like blanc-mange - serve in the same dish, 
Cut out carefully with a large spoon, and put in saucers, with 
cream, powdered sugar, and nutmeg to taste. It is better, if 
set on the ice for an hour before it is brought to table. Do not 
let it stand until the whey separates from the curd. 

Few people know how delicious this healthful and cheap des- 
sert can be made, if eaten before it becomes tart and tough, with 
a liberal allowance of cream and sugar. There are not many 


jellies and creams superior to it. 
Pasquotank County 


ICE CREAM (Condensed Milk) 


This recipe came from an old hand compiled cook book. It 
has been handed dewn through three generations. 

1 can of condensed milk, thinned to proper consistency with 
fresh sweet milk. Sweeten and flavor to taste. Just before it 
begins to freeze, add 1 quart of fresh crushed fruit - preferably 


berries. Mrs. L. L. Harvin, Pender County 


93 


BLACK PUDDING 


A famous old. New: York State recipe dating back to Colonial 
times. Brought to North Carolina by Mrs. M. R. Knapp of Lin- 
wood Club, who lived in New York until a few years ago. 


1 cup molasses . ae 24 cup boiling water > 
1% cups flour 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in the 
1 teaspoon. ginger | ; water 


Mix together the flour, molasses and ginger. Add the boiling 
water and soda. Steam in a lightly greased 3 pint basin 114 
hours without removing the cover of the steamer. Serve warm 
with the following sauce: 

Ys cup butter and 114, cups sugar (powdered or granulated) 
creamed together. Add 2 eggs and 1 teaspoon vanilla and beat 
hard. Makes 6 or 8 servings. 

| Davidson County 


PLUM PUDDING 


1 pound butter or suet 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 pound grated bread crumbs 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
1 pound brown sugar 2 teaspoons allspice 
10 eggs 1144 teaspoons cloves 
1 pound currants 14% teaspoons mace 
2 pounds raisins Y, teaspoon soda mixed with 
1 pound citron’. Y, cup molasses 


1 lemon—rind and juice 


Mix spices in 14, cup wine and lemon juice. Bread crumbs with 
fruit. Beat eggs separately. Mix all ingredients (beaten egg 
whites last). Bake 4 to 5 hours. 

| Mrs. John G. Wood, Chowan County 


Mrs. Jane S. McKimmon’s 
RASPBERRY PARFAIT 


Whether this was a favorite dessert of Mrs. McKimmon’s I 
do not know, but it is one which is easy to prepare and which 
she used often when she had distinguished guests. 

Fresh red raspberries sprinkled over vanilla ice cream in tall 
parfait glasses so that some of them were down the sides and 
all the way to the bottom of the glass. Use an ice tea spoon for 
service. 

Mrs. Maude P. McInnes, Wake County 


94 


GRANNY BOND’S SNOW PUDDING 


This recipe for Snow Pudding was used by Mrs. Henry A. 
Bond (“Granny Bond’) and her family as early as 1860 and is 
still a favorite in the homes of her daughters and friends in 
Edenton. 


1 package gelatin 6 eggs (whites) 
1 cup cold water 1 bottle cherries 
1 pint boiling water 1 small coconut 
2 cups sugar - Vanilla to taste 


Soak the gelatin in 1 cup cold water, after dissolved, pour 
on one pint boiling water, then add 2 cups sugar and vanilla. 

When congealing, beat in whites of six eggs (after they have 
been stiffly beaten). Serve with grated coconut. sprinkled over 
and whipped cream on top. Then a cherry for “Dress Up.” 


Chowan County 


LEMON CHEESE 


This recipe has been used in the family of Mrs. Nora R. Elliott 
of Edenton for over seventy-five years, and is a favorite in her 
home today. 


Y, pound butter 6 eggs 
2 pounds sugar 4 lemons 


Melt butter in double boiler and add sugar. Stir in the eggs, 
well beaten, and rind and juice of the lemons. Stir carefully 
until thick. Pour in small jars. 

This filling may be used in very small tart shells and can be 
made in advance, as it keeps a good while. Also good in puff 


pastry. 
Mrs. E. N. Elliott, Chowan County 


IRISH POTATO PUDDING 
1 pint creamed potatoes 2 cups of milk 
1 cup butter Vanilla flavoring to taste 
2 cups sugar Y, teaspoon salt 
4 eggs beaten 
Mix and cook 1 hour in moderate oven (350° F.) 
The above is one of the most popular dishes at wheat thresh- 


ings in our community. 
: Mrs. Pearl Hunt, Orange County 


95 


LEMON PEANUT ICE-BOX PUDDING 


1 tablespoon gelatin 1 cup boiling water 

', cup cold water 34 cup lemon juice 

34 cup sugar 1 cup heavy cream, whipped 
4, teaspoon salt 1 cup coarsely ground peanuts 


Soak gelatin in cold water 5 minutes. Stir in sugar and salt. 
Add boiling water and stir to dissolve. Add lemon juice. Chill 
in refrigerator until mixture starts to congeal. Beat until frothy. 
Fold whipped cream into mixture into pretty sherbet glasses, 
alternately with toasted ground peanuts. Yield: 8 servings. 


Mrs. Fred L. Johnson, Northampton County 


MARTHA WASHINGTON PUDDING 
(Serves 8) 


This recipe was published in the Lexington Dispatch in the 
early 1920’s. It was contributed by Mrs. C. M. Thompson, a 
member of a prominent family. We use this dessert when com- 
pany drops in unexpectedly. It can be prepared while the meal 
is being cooked. 


2 scant cups bread crumbs 14 cups sugar 

Milk to cover crumbs Y, cup butter 
3 egg yolks Y, pound seedless raisins 
3 egg whites 1 cup sweet wine 


Cream butter and sugar. Add well beaten egg yolks and bread 
crumbs which have been soaked in milk. Add raisins and wine. 
Blend. Pour into buttered baking dish. Bake in moderate oven 
(350° F.) until pudding begins to set. Remove and cool. Spread 
top with meringue made from egg whites and 3 tablespoons sugar 
and 14 teaspoon vanilla. Brown in slow oven. Serve hot or cold. 


Mrs. R. C. Lanning, Davidson County 


NUTTY FINGERS 


4 tablespoons powered sugar 2 cups plain flour 
144 stick butter 2 teaspoons vanilla flavoring 
1 tablespoon water 4 teaspoon almond extract 


Y, cup chopped pecans 


Cream butter. Then add other ingredients. Roll by hand in 
rolls about the size of your little finger. Put in oven and cook 
at 450°F. Take out and roll in powdered sugar. 

Mrs. J. T. Watkins, Granville County 


96 


MOLASSES CUSTARD 


2 eggs 1 tablespoon of melted butter 
1 tumbler of molasses 1 teaspoon soda 
1 tablespoon of flour (put in butter last) 


Mix together and bake in pastry. 
Mrs. R. S. Fergurson, Alexander County 


PERSIMMON PUDDING 


Here is a recipe that has been used for many years by the 
Horne family, is still in use today and we find it to be de- 
licious with whipped cream. 


1 quart persimmons (mashed 24% cups brown or white sugar 
through sieve) 3 tablespoons butter 

1 quart sweet potatoes (mashed) 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 quart sweet milk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon allspice 

1 cup bread crumbs 1 teaspoon vanilla 

3 eggs (beat separately and 
then mix) 


Mix together and bake. 
Mrs. W. C. Curlee, Anson County 


PECAN DATE ROLL 


7% ounces pitted dates 1 cup broken pecan meats (you 

214 cups sugar (white) may use walnuts if you wish) 
1 cup evaporated milk or cream 2 egg whites beaten very stiff 
1 cup pecan halves (can leave eggs out) 


Stir sugar and milk in large saucepan, over medium heat 
until sugar is dissolved and mixture begins to boil. Reduce heat 
to low. Cook stirring constantly to prevent scorching, to 235° F. 
or until a little of the mixture dropped in cool water forms a 
soft ball. Fold in egg whites. Add chopped dates. Cook until 
dates soften and blend with mixture about 236° F. Remove from 
heat, add broken pecans, turn into a large shallow pan, cool 
slightly. Stir until mixture holds shape when molded in pan. 
Pile mixture on top of pecan halves which have been spread on 
wax paper. Press and shape into a roll, kneading mixture from 
outside. Be sure pecans or walnuts have covered all over the roll. 
Roll in wax paper and chill. Then slice in desired shape. 

Mrs. Alex Wiseman, Avery County 


iE 


MOLASSES. PUDDING 


4 cup butter b 2 level teaspoons soda 

1 cup moiasses : a , 1 teaspoon baking powder — 
4 cup sugar 24% cups flour 

1 teaspoon powdered ginger 1 cup boiling water 

2 eggs Pinch of salt 


Cream butter and sugar; add eggs. Mix well. Add molasses. 
Sift flour, measure, add dry ingredients. Sift together. Add 
water to flour mixture. Bake in moderate oven (350° F.) about 
45 minutes. ei 
| Mrs. Walton Aycock, Wayne County 


‘@ PERSIMMON PUDDING 


This is a delicious recipe and is a favorite in our family. Has 
been used about 80 years in the Pfaff family, some of the Mora- 
vian settlers in Bethania. 


1 gallon persimmons, mashed 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup sweet milk . Y, teaspoon baking powder 

1 cup buttermilk 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Strain through a sieve, add 1 teaspoon ginger 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla — 

3 or 4 eggs ; : 3 cups flour 


2 cups sugar 
Mix together and bake in oven 375° F. until it shrinks away 
from the sides of the pan. 
. Julia Maude Conrad, Forsyth County 


OLD SOUTHERN MADERIA ICE CREAM 


This recipe was passed on to me by my sister-in-law, Mrs. 
Benton Farmer. It was given to her by her grandfather. It was 
always his favorite dessert and was passed to him, so she said, 
by his father and is supposed to have been “concocted” by her 
great-grandfather. 


1 quart cream 34 ounce essence of pepsin (get 
2 quarts milk at drug store) 
3 ounces Maderia wine 2% cups sugar 


1% ounces vanilla extract 


Warm milk, add cream and sugar (will curdle). Add wine, 
extract, pepsin and freeze. 


Mrs. Robert L. Yelverton, Wilson County 


98 


PPERSIMMON PUDDING | 


~Y, gallon persimmons 6 eggs 
2 cups boiling water 2 large sweet potatoes, grated 
2 cups buttermilk 2 cups corn meal 
1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon ginger 
1 cup butter or shortening 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
2 cups brown sugar 1 cup sifted flour 


Force the persimmons through a collander or coarse sieve. 
Pour the boiling water over the persimmon pulp Add the soda 
to the buttermilk and combine with persimmons and water. 
Cream the butter, add sugar and cream together. Add slightly 
beaten eggs. Sift the corn meal, ginger, nutmeg and flour to- 
gether. Add to creamed mixture. Fold in the grated sweet pota- 
toes. Pour into a large greased baking dish or several small ones 
and bake one hour in a moderate oven (350° F.). Serve warm. 


Mrs. J. L. Jordan, Wilkes County 


| oh PERSIMMON PUDDING 
/ Temperature 300° F. Time: About 1 hour. 
2 cups persimmon pulp 1 teaspoon salt 
3 eggs l, teaspoon cinnamon 
134 cups milk Y, teaspoon nutmeg 
2 cups sifted flour 14% cups sugar 
4 teaspoon soda 3 tablespoons melted butter 


Mix persimmon pulp, beaten eggs, and milk. Sift dry ingre- 
dients together and pour liquid mixture into them. Stir in melted 
butter. Pour into shallow-oiled pan to depth of about two inches. 
Bake. When cold, cut into squares and serve plain or with whip- 
ped cream. Also good with ice cream or fruits. 


Variation 
1. Coconut, raisins and nuts are pleasing combinations. 
2. 6 tablespoons of dry milk may be substituted for liquid milk. 
Mix this with dry ingredients and add water as liquid. 
: Mrs. Rufus H. Rhyne, Stokes County 


PANDOWDY 


Copied from my mother’s cookbook published in 1860. 

Pare, core and slice thin some sour, juicy apples. Butter a 
deep baking dish or pan and put in a layer of apples; sweeten 
with brown sugar and flavor with lemon peel; strew over a layer 


99 


of bread crumbs and bits of butter. Repeat this until dish is near- 
ly full, finishing with a layer of bread crumbs, bits of butter and 
a sprinkle of brown sugar. Bake till the apples are soft. 

Mrs. Jesse Gardner, Warren County 


PINEAPPLE BAVARIAN CREAM 


This recipe was sent to me by a Pen Pal in Holland. She is 
the wife of a doctor in the village where they live. She was the 
mother of three children at the time she wrote last. She was 
born in Indonesia. Her husband is the only doctor in this village 
in which they live and she is his helper. She likes to cook and 
especially likes to try new recipes, so as I am a lover of new 
recipes too, she sent this one to me. 


1 tablespoon plain gelatin 4 cup cold water 
(1 envelope) 1 cup whipping cream 
No. 1 flat can crushed pineapple Juice of one lemon 
(144 cups) , (3 tablespoons) 


Soften the gelatin in the cold water for 5 minutes. Drain the 
juice from the pineapple and heat to boiling; stir in gelatin 
until dissolved and set aside to cool. Have the cream thoroughly 
chilled, either by pouring into freezing tray of refrigerator for 
an hour or two, or by placing in a bowl of cracked ice and salt. 
Beat in chilled bowl with rotary beater until fluffy, then add 
lemon juice and sugar and beat until very stiff. Fold in gelatin 
mixture and crushed pineapple lightly but thoroughly. Cover 
and chill in refrigerator until firm. Serve in chilled sherbet or 
parfait glasses. (Serves 5) 

Mrs. Lloyd Hinson, Columbus County 


GOOSEBERRY FOOL 


1 quart of gooseberries, ripe Yolks of four eggs 
1 tablespoonful butter Meringue of whites, and 3 table- 
1 cup of sugar spoonfuls sugar 


Stew the gooseberries in just water enough to cover them. 
When soft and broken, rub them through a sieve to remove the 
skins. While still hot, beat in the butter, sugar and the whipped 
yolks of the eggs. Pile in a glass dish, or in small glasses, and 
heap upon the top a meringue of the whipped whites and sugar. 

Mrs. J. L. Shipley, Pasquotank County 


100 


POTATO CRISP PUDDING WITH PRUNES 


: Peel and cut in 1/8 inch thickness, enough potatoes to make 
cups 


1 teaspoon allspice Y, teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar (light brown) Y, cup flour 
Y, cup butter 1 cup prunes 
1%, cup water (fruit juice may 1 grated apple 
be used) 


Butter casserole, add potatoes, prunes, apple, pour over the 
water. Mix allspice, salt, butter, flour and sugar with fingers 
until crumbley. Spread over the potato mixture and bake un- 
covered until light brown 400° F. (It takes about 1 hour). Al- 
ways put in cold oven. 


Mrs. Annie Lee Vereen, Columbus County 


SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


5 medium size sweet potatoes 2 tablespoons butter 
7, cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
34 cup milk 1 cup raisins 

2 egg yolks Y, cup black walnuts 


4 teaspoon salt 


Boil sweet potatoes until tender. Peel and mash. Add other 
ingredients in order, and stir well. Bake in a buttered baking 
dish for 45 minutes in a moderate oven. Remove from oven and 
top with meringue made from 2 egg whites and 4 tablespoons 
sugar. Return to oven and brown. 

Mrs. Guy Queen, Haywood County 


SWEET POTATO PUDDING 
Favorite recipe of Supreme Court Judge C. B. Denny. 


2 cups grated raw sweet potatoes 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspcon nutmeg 
Y, cup flour 4 teaspoon ground cloves 


2, cup butter 2 cups milk 

2 eggs 

Cream together potatoes, sugar, butter, flour, eggs, spices, 
and milk. Grease baking dish and bake for one hour at 350° F. 


Stir occasionally while baking. 
Mrs. J. W. Denny, Surry County 


Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. A. R. Currin, Granville County 


101 


RICE PUDDING 


This recipe was my great grandmother’s. It was used by my 
grandmother who at one time lived in and helped operate the 
Seven Springs resort hotel when it was famous. At that time 
it was noted for its Saturday night square dances, which some- 
times lasted all night, my grandfather playing the violin, and 
his sister the piano. This recipe dates back to about 1850. 


2 cups cooked rice 13 cup sugar | 
1 cup sweet milk Grated rind 14 lemon or 
4 cup raisins Y, teaspoon nutmeg 


Mix ingredients, place in buttered dish, and bake in a slow 
oven until the rice has absorbed the milk and is brown. 
Mary Ivey, Wayne County 


NORTH CAROLINA SNOW CREAM 


The following recipe to me is a typical North Carolina recipe. 
When we first moved down to North Carolina in the winter of 
1939 we lived on a farm. Our closest neighbor was a typical 
farm family with a large number of children. We had a big 
snow that winter and for the first time in my life, I saw six 
children eating what looked like to me large water glasses of 
snow. Later that day I stopped in to see a neighbor, she said, 
“My, wasn’t it nice to see all that nice snow and to have snow 
cream again.” When I looked amazed, she enlightened me. 
Needless to say I have been an addict ever since. I often wonder- 
ed why in the world the children in Ohio, (my native state), 
Indiana or other Northern states didn’t make this delicious con- 
fection. 

Here is the recipe to the best of my knowledge: 

Put about 2 tablespoons of sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla or other 
flavoring in a large glass. Take some nice freshly fallen clean 
snow, or if not freshly fallen, scrape off the hard crust, add 
a little to the sugar alternately with thick sweet cream. Just 
keep adding and stirring vigorously and keep tasting as you go © 
along. If not sweet enough, add more sugar or cream. Condensed 
milk may be used or undiluted canned evaporated milk. Lemon 
Juice added to the sugar and sour cream used instead of sweet 
is delicious. We have also used chocolate syrup and maple syrup 
instead of sugar. 

Mrs. W. Kenneth Cuyler, Durham County 


102 


GRATED SWEET POTATO PUDDING 


(The following is from an old cook book in the family of Mrs. 
Fred Wood, Edenton, N. C.) 


1 large tablespoon butter 1 lemon—grated rind and juice 
creamed with %4 cup home made citron 
4% cup white sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 
Add beaten yolks of 2 eggs Y, teaspoon baking powde- 
4 tea cups grated sweet potato Pinch of salt 


1 can coconut 


Add beaten whites last and bake slowly. Highly flavored 
(wine) hard sauce adds everything to pudding. 


SLIGHT PUDDING 


This recipe is much over 100 years old, being used in the 
Forney family for generations. 

I remember years ago when my brother, James H. Forney, 
who was then Attorney General of Idaho, brought his wife 
with him for a visit to our mother, Mrs. Harvey Forney of 
Rutherford County, North Carolina. 

He requested his mother to make a Slight Pudding for a din- 
ner she was giving in honor of him and his wife. Of course, his 
mother did so. Among the guests were Mrs. Forney’s niece, 
Mrs. Mary Forney Nabers and her husband, Dr. A. H. Nabers. 

3 pints of milk thickened with 5 heaping tablespoons of flour 
and 1 large tablespoon butter. 

While this is cooling, beat the yolks of 6 eggs with a teacup 
of sugar and add to it, then beat the whites to a stiff froth and 
stir in lightly. Bake a light brown in a slow oven. Flavor with 


lemon. 
Mrs. R. F. Tate, Rutherford County 


103 







Gi \ : ¢ Peed y ‘ a 
i ve eae 
ay oy J neve » 


- ai _ gee ts ve fw 
Ee mage . 









. Ke wad rs ies eek) 4 
Al isles ie wee s £ 


ae ae wey ihe 


’ Biitt, eee 
nae au | TOT Oe apliiiaoee } 


Crshuhdl? tas 1b, BO eee are wag | a ve F 
ey te ot. seit te Ronee ites: bites 


AIOE iets A 


in ‘yang, fi wove Ser coed ae 
Rate ik weer ath) “ atiesei | 
: i is ati’ Sdn, eet ey eh 
, ag ap wae nin 
ee ies Oy. eget Sern 

they? Sets 


ee rom ‘ito : 


“AM pla) ; T¢ 


~ 08 ‘2 i nyo ; fi 


a i 


‘ ‘ Ko OS Ariae: 
ee OF ed 
VAP ieee. te 
eg ee, 
Fe A hag ae cy St 

| ay 


Sit) iy 








| ANGEL FOOD PIE 
Ingredients for two 9-inch crusts: 


2 cups sifted flour 2, cup good shortening 
VY, teaspoon salt 2 to 4 tablespoons cold water 

Filling for one 9-inch baked pastry shell: 

4 egg whites , 4, cup sugar 
14 cup sugar Y, teaspoon vanilla 

1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup ground nut meats 


4 pint whipping cream 


Beat egg whites stiff. Add 14 cup sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat until mixture stands in peaks. Pour into baked pie shell. 
Bake in a slow oven 325° F. about 20 minutes until whites are 
light brown. Remove from oven and cool. Whip cream. Add 4, 
cup sugar and 14 teaspoon vanilla. Spread evenly over cooled pie. 
Sprinkle with nut meats. Double contents for 2 pies. 

Mrs. W. E. Stanley, Lee County 


ANGEL PIE 


4 egg whites (room temperature) 34, teaspoon cream of tartar 

1 cup sugar 

Add cream of tartar to egg whites and beat until foamy. Add 
sugar gradually and continue beating until whites will stand 
in peaks. Spread in greased pie plate and bake at 275° F. for 20 
minutes and 300° F. for 40 minutes. 
Filling: 

4 egg yolks 
', cup sugar 

Beat egg yolks until thick. Add other ingredients. Cook over 
hot water until thick. Cool. Whip 14 pint cream. Spread half of 
cream on meringue crust, cover with lemon filling. Top with 


remaining cream. Serve cool. 
Mrs. Lonnie Edwards, Alleghany County 


5 tablespoons lemon juice 
3 teaspoons lemon rind 


105 


QUICK APPLE PIE 


3 large apples, or enough to fill an 8 inch pie plate. Sprinkle 
with 14, teaspoon of cinnamon. Add 14 cup water. Put in a bowl: 


1 cup of sugar 4 cup of butter 
1 cup of sifted flour 


Work this together with your fingers until it looks like corn 
meal. Put this mixture on top of the apples and bake in oven 
until brown and the apples are done. 

Mrs. A. B. Moss, Granville County 


APPLE PIE 
This recipe has been in my family for 30 years. 
1 paste double crust 2 tablespoons flour 
2 cups sliced apples 4 tablespoons butter 
1 cup sugar , teaspoon cinnamon 


3 tablespoons water 


Prepare bottom crust and fill with tart cooking apples sliced 
very thin. Sprinkle sugar over them; add water; distribute but- 
ter in small lumps over surface; sprinkle with flour and then 
the cinnamon; adjust top crust, well perforated. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. If preferred, top crust may be made of latticed strips 
of paste. 

Mrs. W. T. Dawson, Nash County 


BUTTERSCOTCH PIE 


This recipe was brought from Kentucky in 1884 and has been 
in use by our family since that time. 


2 cups dark brown sugar 2 egg yolks 
6 tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons butter 
% teaspoon salt 2 cups milk 


Blend sugar, flour, salt; add the well beaten egg yolks, butter 
and milk. Cook in the top of a double boiler until thick. Cool 
slightly. Pour into a baked cooled pie shell. Cover with meringue 
and bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned. 

Meringue—2 egg whites, 6 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla. Beat the egg whites until they will hold their shape, add 
Sugar one spoonful at a time. Beat until dry; add vanilla and 
cover pie. Bake as directed. 


Mrs. Robert Anderson, Person County 


106 


BOSTON CREAM PIE 
(For Strawberry Short Cake) 


%4 cup sugar lg teaspoon salt 

1 cup flour Y, teaspoon vanilla 

Y, cup boiling milk 14 teaspoons baking powder 
2 eggs 


Sift and measure flour, add baking powder, sugar and galt. 
Re-sift together three times. Beat egg yolks to lemon color. Beat 
egg whites stiff, then mix together. Fold the flour mixture into 
the egg mixture, add hot milk very slowly, add vanilla, bake. 
When cool, split layer and butter lightly - add strawberries and 
whipped cream. 

Mrs. Kenny Laws, Lee County 


BUTTERMILK PIE 


2 cups milk 1 tablespoon butter 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 
3 egg yolks Grated rind of 1 lemon 


4 tablespoons flour 


Beat yolks and sugar. Rub butter and flour together and add 
the beaten egg yolks and sugar, buttermilk, extract and lemon 
rind. Bake in pie crust. Beat egg whites and add 9 tablespoons 
sugar to meringue, spread on top of pie and brown. This makes 
two pies. 

Mrs. J. A. Harris, Sr., Montgomery County 


CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE 


1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y, cup flour 2 egg yolks 

, teaspoon salt 2 squares chocolate 
2 cups scalded milk 1 teaspoon butter 


Melt the chocolate in the milk. Mix the dry ingredients. Add 
milk and chocolate gradually. Cook 15 minutes in double boiler 
stirring constantly until mixture thickens, and afterwards oc- 
casionally. Mix a small amount of the mixture with the egg 
yolks and return to the double boiler. Cook about three minutes. 
Cool and add vanilla. Fill baked pie shell. Cover with meringue 
made from two egg whites and four tablespoons of sugar. Brown 


slightly. 
tend HKileen Jordan, Wilkes County 


107 


BROWN SUGAR PIE: 


1 cup brown sugar, firmly packed. 4 teaspoon:salt 

1 egg slightly beaten 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 tablespoons flour’)! ) 800°) 2 tablespoons melted butter re 
3 SANE ONIE milk YW MOE YLT g | 


Mix in order given. Pour in unbaked pie shell, pater in mod- 
erate | oven about 15 minutes. 
Miss Mary Linville, Forsyth County 


~ BROWN SUGAR PIE 


This recipe came from my sister-in-law’s mother Mrs. Alvin 
pets in Greensboro. It is over 50 years old. 
2. cups brown sugar 1 cup milk 
2 eggs 2 teaspoons butter 
Cream butter and sugar. Add eggs and milk. Bake in unbaked 
pie crust in slow oven. 
| - Mrs. Lancy Short, Anson County 


COTTAGE CHEESE PIE 


1 pint cottage cheese Y% cup. butter 
2 eggs 4 teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar YZ cup milk 


1 tablespoon flour 


Mash cheese, add beaten eggs, sugar, flour, salt, melted but- 
ter, 14 cup milk. Flavor with vanilla and grated nutmeg, and 
bake in 9 inch pastry lined pie pan. Bake in oven 325° F. 35 
minutes or until knife comes out clean. 

Mrs. George W. Cooper, Sr., Forsyth County 


— COCONUT PIES 
My mother’s recipe from an old, old cookbook. 


2 coconuts grated 3 tablespoons flour 

214 cups sugar: Butter (size of walnut) 
3 cups milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
5 eggs 


Beat eggs well, then add sugar in which flour is mixed. Beat 
well. Add butter, coconut, then milk; mix well. Lastly add vanilla. 
Put mixture in unbaked pie shell and cook in moderate oven 
375° F. until filling will shake like jelly and pie is golden brown. 
This recipe makes about 8 pies. 

Mrs. C. E. Thompson, Warren County 


108 


CHOCOLATE PIE 


This recipe belonged to my grandmother, Mrs. A. V. Finley, 
50 years ago. Eee Ors 


1 baked pie shell 3 tablespoons cornstarch ah i ay 

1 cup milk 2 eggs separated Man 
W,) teaspoon salt ‘a cup sugar Go Aid) S 

1 square bitter chocolate 1 teaspoon vanilla 


or 4 tablespoons cocoa 


Beat egg yolks slightly. Add cornstarch to make paste. Add 
milk. Finally add the melted chocolate and sugar. If cocoa:is 
used, mix it thoroughly with the cornstarch before adding the 
egg and milk. Cook in double boiler. Pour into pie ‘shell, allow to 
cool and then cover with stiffly beaten egg whites to which two 
tablespoons powdered sugar have been added. Place in moderate 
oven to brown. 

Mrs. Artis White, Wilkes County 


PUMPKIN CHIFFON PIE 


This is an old Morris Family recipe. The original used Pig 
Foot broth for gelatin, and it is still my favorite pumpkin pie 
recipe. 

Crust: SRT DA EME: ye 

Line a 9-inch pie plate with Old-Fashioned Ginger Snaps, cut- 
ting enough in halves to stand up around inside of plate. Fill. 
with Pumpkin Chiffon Filling. 


Filling: 

1 cup cooked pumpkin 4 teaspoon nutmeg 

3 eggs separated 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
Y, cup sugar 2 tablespoons melted butter 
1 cup milk 1 tablespoon plain gelatin 
4, teaspoon salt 4 cup cold water 
Y teaspoon ginger , cup sugar 


Cook pumpkin in double boiler 10 minutes, stirring occasion- 
ally. Mix egg yolks, sugar, and milk. Add to pumpkin with salt, 
spices, and melted butter. Stir and cook until of custard con- 
sistency. Remove from heat, add gelatin, which has been soft- 
ened in cold water. Stir until dissolved. Chill. When mixture be- 
gins to stiffen, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites to which has 
been added 14 cup sugar. Pour into ginger snap crust. Chill 3 


hours. Top with whipped cream. 
Mrs. Paul Peddycord, Forsyth County 


109 


CUSTARD PIE 


This recipe for Custard Pie has not been in print as far as I 
know. It was handed down from the Tunstall family of Vance 
County about 1848 to Mrs. Eliza T. Ellington. Mrs. Ellington gave 
it to my mother, Mrs. Lottie Stone Paschall, of Warren County 
about 1896. She in turn taught me to bake this pie about 1910. 

1 cup white sugar 3 eggs (originally 5 in recipe) 

1 cup damson preserves Pinch of salt 

‘4 cup butter 


Cream butter, sugar, add well beaten egg yolks. Add damson 
preserves. Add salt to egg whites and beat until very stiff. Add 
to above mixture. Pour into uncooked pie shell. Bake slowly 
until done. 
: Mrs. Jodie Shipp, Durham County 


CITRON PIES 


This recipe is one used by Miss Mary Forney, afterwards Mrs. 
A. H. Nabers, during and right after the War Between the 
States when she made individual citron pies to go with other 
food sent to Southern prisoners. 


3 cups brown sugar 4 eggs 
Scant 4% pound butter 


Cream butter and sugar, then add the eggs. Beat well. Pour 
into unbaked pie shell. A rich biscuit dough is better than pastry 
for the shell. Bake in a slow oven. 


Mrs. O. J. Holler, Rutherford County 


SOUTHERN PUMPKIN PIE 
(Recipe 100 years old) 


To make this delicious pie, bake sliced pumpkin in the oven 
till soft, scrape purmpkin from shell and rub well through the 
collander or sieve; for three small pies use one quart of milk, 
stir in three cups of the pumpkin, one and one half cups of maple 
syrup. Beat separately the white and yolks of four eggs and 
add first the white then the yellow; add one half teaspoon salt 
and one teaspoon each of cinnamon and ginger. Bake with one 
crust. When cool spread pie with tart plum jam and whipped 
cream over jam. This is very delicious. 

Mrs. Thelma Spivey, Northampton County 


110 


CHESS CAKE OR PIE 


My great grandmother was 96 years old when she passed 
away. I just can remember her, and this was her recipe so I 
can’t tell how old it is. 

May be baked in muffin pans, any small pans, or either in pie 
pans. Line pans with regular crust, rolled thin. Bake altogether. 

1 cup sugar 4 egg yolks 

3%, stick butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 

(Makes one large pie or 12 to 15 small pies.) 

Cream the sugar and butter together. Beat 2 eggs. Add 1 
teaspoon vanilla. Pour into unbaked crust and bake until done 
at a 375° F. oven. 

Mrs. J. P. Alford, Brunswick County 


CHESS PIE 
1, cup butter 1 cup sugar 
2 eggs well beaten Y% cup milk 
1 cup chopped dates 1 cup chopped walnuts (or pecans) 
1 teaspoon vanilla 1 unbaked pie shell 


Cream, butter and sugar, add eggs with nuts, dates and va- 
nilla. Bake 450° F. for ten minutes then reduce the heat 350° F. 
Bake until firm then serve with whipped cream. 

Mrs. Louise Barber, Onslow County 


CHESS TARTS 


This recipe was given to me by Mrs. Bettie Harris, Seaboard, 
North Carolina. She is the daughter of Mrs. J. N. Ramsay and 
Dr. Ramsay. Dr Ramsay is given the credit of having fired the 
first shot in the War Between The States. He was born in 1836 
and died in 1904. 

4 egg yolks 3%, cup melted butter 

1 light tablespoon flour 2 tablespoons milk 

1 cup sugar 

Cream sugar and butter until smooth. Add flour and mix well. 
Add eggs one at a time and mix thoroughly. Beat well after 
each egg yolk is added. Add milk. Mix well. (Grate nutmeg over 
each tart, if you like.) Pour on crust. Bake until brown. 

Mrs. H. H. Hargrave, Northampton County 


111 


CHESS PIE 


This pie is a favorite of Paul A. Reid, native of Pilot Moun- 
tain, N. C., who is now president of Western Carolina Teachers 
College at Cullowhee, N. C. 


2, cup white sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
4 cup white corn syrup Y% teaspoon nutmeg 
3 eggs slightly beaten 1 tablespoon butter, melted 


14 tablespoons corn meal 
Mix in order given and bake in unbaked pie shell at 350° F. 
Songs Mrs. Will Reid, Surry County 


CHESS PIE 


This recipe came from the kitchen of Mrs. Green Shephens, 
near Leasburg, Caswell County, and was used about 1825-1850. 
Mr. and Mrs. Shephens had twelve children, ten of them reach- 
ing maturity. Seven served in the War Between the States, three 
of them paying the supreme sacrifice. 

The kitchen was a double cabin in the back yard, and slaves 
cooked on a fireplace. 


10 egg yolks 2 teaspoons cream 
34 pound butter Lemon flavoring 
1 pound sugar 


Cream butter and sugar, add beaten eggs, cream and flavoring. 
Beat well. Pour into individual tart pans, lined with rich pastry. 
Cook at low heat for an hour. 

Mrs. Taylor Long, Caswell County 


CHESS PIE 
16 egg yolks 2 tablespoons flour 
2 cups sugar 1% tablespoons vinegar 
34 pound boiling butter Nutmeg 


Beat eggs light, add sugar and flour (sifted together) gradu- - 
ally. Wash salt from butter and heat until it boils. Add slowly to 
yolks. Beat well. Add vinegar and nutmeg. Pour in pie shell and 


bake. Mrs. P. G. Reid, Northampton County 


(Note—Testing committee suggest since we use salt in most 
foods it is not necessary to remove salt from butter. May add 
lemon juice for added flavor.) 


112 


COCONUT PIE 
(Recipe for two pies) 


Y, pound butter 1 large can milk | 
1 cup sugar 1 large coconut (grated) 
6 eggs, separated Grated rind of 1 orange 


2 juicy oranges 


Mix butter and sugar until creamy, add egg yolks and mix 
well. Add juice from oranges, and grated rind, then add coconut 
and milk. The custard should be very juicy. 

Line two nine-inch pie plates with your favorite crust. Build 
up the sides as high as possible, and crimp the edges. Pour the 
custard in the pie shells and cook in moderate oven until crust 
is brown. Remove from oven and cover both pies with meringue 
made from the six egg whites. Return to oven and brown 


meringue. 

Mrs. Louis Dennis, Carteret County 
COCONUT PIE / 

1 cup sugar 1 cup coconut, shredded (114 

2 tablespoons flour cups if fresh grated) 

Pinch of salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 eggs 2 tablespoons butter, melted 
1 cup milk 


Mix sugar, flour and salt. Beat eggs slightly, add coconut, 
milk and vanilla. (If time permits, soak coconut in milk several 
hours to restore moisture.) 

Combine with dry ingredients, mix well. Add melted butter. 
Bake in unbaked pastry shell at 375° F. for 25 - 30 minutes. 

Mrs. O. D. Lyon, Jr., Granville County 


Pu JEFF DAVIS PIE 


This recipe is very old. 

3 egg yolks 

1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup plum or damson preserves... 


( 1 cup sugar 
\ ’, cup butter 
_ 2 tablespoons flour 
ARR, ‘4 cup milk 
| | Beat egg yolks. Add sugar, then flour. Then mix butter and 
_ milk, also flavoring. Roll out the erust and put in the pie tin. 
. Spread with the preserves and pour over the custard mixture. 
\. Bake in a slow oven. When done cover with meringue and brown. 
‘es Mrs. J. A. Harris, Sr., Montgomery County 


™ 
— 


113 


DRIED APPLE CUSTARD 


This is one of the oldest recipes that I can remember my 
grandmother, Mrs. Tom Williamson, making. The older genera- 
tions liked it better than this generation. It seems to be a favorite 
of older people since they like the tart flavor that the apples give. 
Very good with a cold glass of sweet milk. 


1 cup stewed diced apples Y, cup sugar 
(homemade) 
Custard 
Y cup sugar 1 cup milk 
2 eggs 


Spread the sweetened apples in an unbaked pie crust. Pour the 
custard over the apples and bake for fifteen minutes at 300°F., 
then increase heat to 325°F. and bake the custard until it is firm 
and light brown. 

Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


EGG CUSTARD PIE 


6 eggs, whole 2 cups sugar 
1 cup milk 2 tablespoons butter 
Dash of nutmeg Pinch of salt 


Beat eggs until foamy. Mix sugar and milk. Pour into eggs and 
beat well. Make rich crust and cook in moderate oven forty-five 
minutes. No meringue. 


Mrs. Annie Kate Trawick, Stokes County 


OLD FASHION EGG CUSTARD 


This is an old Haywood County recipe for egg custard and has 
been handed down through the ages for many generations. 


4 eggs slightly beaten 3 cups milk, scalded 
4 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y, cup sugar Nutmeg 


Combine eggs, vanilla, sugar, and salt; add scalded milk slowly. 
Line pie pan with plain pastry, pour in filling and sprinkle with 
nutmeg. Bake in medium hot oven (300°F.) 80 to 40 minutes or 
until a knife inserted comes out clean. Makes one 9” pie. 


Mrs. Cephas Clark, Haywood County 


114 


DAMSON PRESERVES PIE 


1 cup damson preserves Whites of 3 eggs 
1 stick butter, melted 1 tablespoon vanilla 
Yolks of 5 eggs 


Beat the eggs well, add preserves, butter and vanilla. Mix well 
and pour in uncooked crust and bake. When done, top with 
meringue made with the two egg whites. Return to oven and 
brown. If Damson preserves are not available, use plum or grape 
preserves. 


Mrs. Josephine Cowan, Pender County 


GRANDMOTHER’S OLD-FASHIONED CARAMEL PIE 


This recipe has been used since 1869 first by my grandmother, 
Mrs. Mary E. Bryan, then by my mother, Mrs. Nannie Bryan 
Williams. 


4 eggs 1 tablespoon butter 
2 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
4 tablespoons flour 8 tablespoons sugar for meringue. 


1 cup sweet milk 


Separate eggs, beat yolks until light and fluffy, add sugar, small 
amount at time. Add flour, milk and butter. Cook until thick in 
top of double broiler. Add flavoring and cool. Pour into pie shell. 

Beat egg whites until peak forms. Add sugar gradually. Beat 
until smooth and add 14 teaspoon vanilla and spread over filling. 
Bake at 300°F, 12 minutes or until light brown. 

Variation: To make a delicious old fashioned raisin pie, add 1 
cup raisins to the above filling and cover with meringue. 

Mrs. Harold Thornton, Sampson County 


GRANDMOTHER’S DRIED PEACH PIE 


My grandmother made this pie as her favorite dessert when I 
was a small child. The recipe is over 100 years old. 


2 cups stewed peaches 3 beaten egg yolks 
(sweetened to taste) Dash cinnamon 


Mix and pour in unbaked pie crust. Bake in hot oven at about 
450°F. until brown. Remove from oven, cover with meringue 
made from remaining three egg whites. Sprinkle on top with 
cinnamon. Return to oven to brown the meringue. Allow to cool 


before serving. Mrs. G. B. Boykin, Wilson County 


115 


GRANDMOTHER’S LEMON CHESS PIE 
This is a very old recipe and was originally beaten by hand. 


Line pan with pastry 
Stir together: 


2 cups sugar Y% cup melted butter 

1 tablespoon flour Y% cup milk 

1 tablespoon corn meal 4 tablespoons grated lemon rind 
Add: Y% cup lemon juice 


4 eggs unbeaten 


Beat with a mixer until thoroughly blended. Pour into pie pan 
and cook 35 to 45 minutes (or until a knife blade inserted comes 


out clean) at 375° F. Mrs. Otha Riddick, Gates County 


SOUTHERN LEMON PIE 


v This recipe was handed down to me by my mother. 


14% cups sugar 3 egg yolks 
5 tablespoons cornstarch or flour 1 lemon and rind 
1144 cups boiling water 1 baked pastry shell 
1 tablespoon butter 1 recipe meringue 


i, teaspoon salt 


Mix sugar and cornstrach in top of double boiler. Add water 
gradually, stirring constantly. Beat egg yolks and add to first 
mixture slowly, then cook over water until thickened. Remove 
from heat. Add butter, lemon juice and rind. Pour into pie shell 
and top with meringue. Bake at 400° F. until browned lightly. 

Mrs. A. H. Pridgen, Jr., Pender County 


LEMON CREAM PIE 


2 tablespoons butter Juice of 1 lemon 

8 tablespoons flour Grated rind of % lemon 

1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons confectioners’ sugar 
‘4 teaspoon salt 2 egg whites 

2 cups milk Baked pie shell 


2 egg yolks 


Melt butter and add flour, sugar, salt, milk and beaten egg 
yolks, mix well. Cook over hot water until thick, stirring con- 
stantly. Remove from heat, add lemon juice and rind and mix 
well. Pour into baked shell. Cover top with meringue which has 
been stiffly beaten and sweetened with confectioner’s sugar. Bake 
in a moderate oven for about 15 minutes. 

Mrs. Kathleen J. Eakins, Pender County 


116 


™ 
~~ 


LEMON CHESS PIE 


4 stick of butter’ 1 big lemon 
1 cup sugar _ Aigo i egg Whites 
2 egg yolks | TEAS ga 


Cream sugar. ant butter, add egg yolks and lemon juice. Fold 
in well-beaten whites. Bake in unbaked pastry shell at 375° for 
about 30 minutes or until pie filling is well “set’’. Serve cold. 
(Shake—if firm. it is done) 

Mrs. A. R. Currin, Granville County 


LEMON PIE 
er cup sugar 2 egg yolks 
1 cup boiling water 2 tablespoons butter 
5 tablespoons flour Rind and juice of one lemon 


~ Mix sugar and flour i: in the top of double boiler. Add water and 
stir until smooth. Stirring rapidly add well beaten egg yolks. 
Add rind and lemon juice and cook over boiling water until 
thickened. Add butter and beat until cool and creamy. Pour into 
a baked pie shell and top with meringue. 


MERINGUE 
2 egg whites 4 teaspoon baking powder 
2 tablespoons powdered sugar Pinch of salt 


Have egg whites room temperature. Place in deep bowl with 
baking powder and heat until bowl can be inverted. Add sugar 
and put over pie. 

Mrs. George Highsmith, Jr., Pender County 
Mrs. Wesley Walker, Orange County 


| LEMON PIE 
yy 4 eggs 2 lemons 
5 tablespoons flour 114 cups water 
1 cup sugar Few grains salt 


Mix sugar, flour and salt. Separate eggs and beat yolks, add 
yolks and lemon juice to sugar. Mix well, then add boiling water 
and cook in double boiler until thick. Pour into baked pie shell, 
beat egg whites with 8 tablespoons sugar and cover pie. Place 


in oven until browned. ‘ 
Mrs. T. E Thimble, Madison County 


117 


OLD-FASHIONED MOLASSES PIE 
(Mother Cotten’s “Cottendale”) 


Mrs. Sallie Southall Cotten, daughter of Col. Thomas James 
and Susan Sim Southall was born in Lawrenceville, Virginia, but 
her girlhood was spent in Murfreesboro, N. C., and she has always 
been identified with the Old North State. She was educated at 
Greensboro Female College, and in 1866 married Mr. Robert Ran- 
dolph Cotten, and in 1868 moved with him to Pitt County. She 
rendered efficient service to North Carolina as a Lady Manager, 
both on National and State Boards at the Chicago World’s Fair. 
Was also appointed Lady Manager for her state at the exposition 
of Atlanta and Charleston. She was an enthusiastic believer in 
organized womanhood, and for years was associated with the 
Congress of Mothers, in which she held many offices and remains 
now an Honorary Vice President of that organization. She was 
active in the work of the North Carolina Federation of Women’s 
Clubs, and for many years had been President of the End of 
Century Club of Greenville. She was also a member of the King’s 
Daughters and the Daughters of the Confederacy. 

She is the author of The White Doe—a poem of some length, 
found on the early history of North Carolina. She has also written 
many other poems and short stories, which were published in 
various magazines but her time has been given principally to 
rearing her children and conducting her domestic affairs and 
dispensing the hospitality of her home “Cottendale.”’ 


1 tablespoon melted butter 4 eggs (beaten separately) 
Y, tablespoon nutmeg 1 cup sugar 
1 tablespoon flour (heaping) 1% cup molasses 


Blend ingredients together. (Keep egg whites for meringue). 
Pour into unbaked rich pie shell and bake in slow oven about 45 
minutes. Top with meringue, brown. 

Mrs. Russell Wiggins, Pitt County 


MOLASSES PIE 


3 eggs 1 cup molasses 
1 cup sugar 1 tablespoon butter (melted) 
1 tablespoon flour 3 tablespoons milk 


Mix ingredients. Put in crust and bake in moderate oven. Makes 
two pies. 
Mrs. Hugh B. Bryan, Edgecombe County 


118 


MOLASSES PIE 


The Molasses Pie recipe is very old, originating here in the 
South, dating back possibly 100 years and used so much right 
after the molasses was made in the fall. 


1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y, cup sugar 4 teaspoon nutmeg 
4 cup flour 2 tablespoons butter 
4 eggs Few grains salt 

Y% cup milk 


Cream butter, add beaten eggs and sugar :uixed with flour. 
Then add vanilla, nutmeg and salt. Add molasses and milk and 
pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake at 375° F. Makes two—8 inch 
pies. It is better eaten when warm. 


Mrs. A. Crouse Jones, Forsyth County 


PECAN PIE 
3 eggs 2 cups chopped pecans 
VY, cup sugar 3 tablespoons melted fat 
1 cup corn syrup V, teaspoon salt 


Beat eggs, add sugar, syrup, fat, vanilla and nuts. Add pinch 
of salt. Mix well and pour into a partly baked crust and bake in 
a moderate oven 300° F. about 45 minutes. The nuts float on the 
top making a firm crust that browns nicely if the pie is baked 


slowly. 
Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


Peanut Pie—a new version of the famous pecan pie—is my 
original dessert. 


PEANUT PIE 


1 cup dark syrup 4 teaspoon salt 
3 eggs, unbeaten 1 cup whole, parched peanuts 
3 tablespoons flour 8 inch unbaked pastry shell 


2 tablespoons melted butter 
Combine syrup, eggs, flour, butter and salt in mixing bowl. 
Beat with rotary beater 60 turns only. Spread toasted peanuts 


in bottom of unbaked pastry shell. Pour liquid mixture over top. 
Bake in a moderate oven (350°F.) 80 minutes. Yield: One 8 inch 


ie. 
: Mrs. Fred L. Johnson, Northampton County 


119 


Step 1—Make pie. shell. “Step 2—Pour 1 cup shelled pecans 
into ‘pie shell. “Mix: | Bic tyne gai Set mks 


3 eggs HAG ikl 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup corn syrup ', cup butter or margarine 
', cup sugar Pinch of salt 


Pour over RECAB Soi AQEt until firm—350° F. 
Mrs. Faye Hamilton, Pender ECORI 


PECAN PIE 
3 eggs | 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 tablespoons sugar 4 teaspoon salt 
2 tablespoons flour | 1 cup pecans 


2 cups corn syrup 


Beat eggs until light. Combine sugar and flour and add to eggs, 
beat well. Add syrup, vanilla, salt and pecans. Turn into a pastry 
lined pie pan and bake in moderate oven about 45 minutes or until 
custard sets and is lightly browned. 


Mrs. R. C. Kirby, Madison County 


POTATO PIE 


This recipe is over one-hundred years old. 
1 cup of well-mashed potatoes ©. ly cup sugar 

14% cups of sweet milk 1 teaspoon butter 
3 well-beaten eggs Mix ingredients 


Season with nutmeg and cinnamon, to taste. Turn into raw 
crust and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sweet cream 


flavored with vanilla. This is delicious. Note—Use heaping instead 
of level measurements. 


Mrs. Marvin Pelletier, Lenoir County 


IRISH POTATO CUSTARD 


Y, cup mashed Irish potatoes 34 cup sugar 
14 teaspoon salt 1 egg 
2 tablespoons butter | 


Mix potatoes, butter, sugar and eggs together and beat well. 
Add 24 cup of milk. 1 tablespoon flavoring. Pour into pastry lined 
pan and bake 25 minutes at 450°F. 


‘Mrs. R. J. Hatley, Stanly County 


120 


SWEET POTATO CUSTARD 


2 cups mashed potatoes 1 cup sweet milk 
3 eggs Y cup sugar 
2 tablespoons butter 1 tablespoon salt nutmeg, if desired 


6 tablespoons sugar 


Beat the yolks of the eggs into the cooked mashed potato, add 
the melted butter, and then the other ingredients. Pour into a pie 
pan lined with the pastry. Bake in a moderate oven until the pie 
is set. Make a stiff meringue of the egg whites and six table- 
spoons of sugar, spread over the top of the pie, and bake slowly 
until a delicate brown. One-fourth cup of coconut may be added 
to the filling. 

Mrs. Pinkney Williams, Columbus County 


POOR FOLKS PIE 


My great aunt raised my mother and this is a recipe she gave 
her that she had used. This poor folks pie was one of the favorites 
during those days as it was hard to get flour or any kind of bread, 
so they would use the few cold biscuits left over for the pie. It 
was especially good for my mother as she had eight children to 
cook for and it was so quick and easy to make. 


1 quart canned peaches 1 cup sugar (Leave out sugar if 
peaches already sweetened) 


Combine these two and put in pan and bake in oven 400° F. 
for 15 minutes. Take out and crumble four cold biscuits over top 
and put ,back in oven and brown at moderate temperature for 


10 minutes. Mrs. Joe Stuckey, Wayne County 


AUNT POLLY’S PINEAPPLE PIE ‘ 
1 small can crushed pineapple Y, cup sugar 
/, cup coconut Butter—size of an egg 


2 cups scalded rich milk 3 tablespoons cornstarch 
2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Combine all ingredients except pineapple, coconut and vanilla. 
Cook in double boiler until thick. Add pineapple, coconut and 
vanilla. Fill a baked pie crust. Cover with meringue that has 
been made of the two egg whites, 14 teaspoon of cream of tartar 
and 2 teaspoons sugar beaten until stands in peaks. Brown in 


vate Mrs. Maynard Harris, Wilkes County...” 


121 


PINEAPPLE DELIGHT 


1 small can pineapple 1 can evaporated milk 
1 package marshmallows 1 box vanilla wafers 
1 lemon 


Heat 34, cup pineapple with 1 package small marshmallows. 
Chill. Whip milk that has been chilled in refrigerator. Add pine- 
apple and melted marshmallows. Add lemon juice. Whip all in- 
gredients together and line pie plate with wafers. Pour in pie 
plate and chill before serving. Serves 6. 

Mrs. M. D. Roberts, Pender County 


PUMPKIN PIE 


34 cup brown sugar 14% cups warm milk 

1% cup white sugar 2 whole eggs (well beaten) 

Y, teaspoon salt 2 tablespoons melted butter 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 2 teaspoons orange rind 

Y, teaspoon ginger 1 teaspoon orange juice 

4 teaspoon nutmeg Y, cup nuts (pecans or black wal- 
114%, cups pumpkin nuts) 


Combine pumpkin, sugar, and salt and spices. Blend. Add milk, 
eggs, orange juice and rind. Fold in nuts. Pour in pie pan lined 
with pastry. Cook at 450° F. for 10 minutes. Then 350° F. for 1 
hour. Serve with whipped cream or plain. 

Mrs. Elizabeth Silvers, Yancey County 


RECIPE FOR TARTS 
Cousin Parmelia’s (Melie) Church’s 
(Old Salem Resident) 


Miss Church was a cousin of my mothers. This recipe was 
given to me in April, 1921. She fixed these tarts for parties for 
the wealthy people in Winston-Salem for years, Also at Salem 
College. She died about 1930 at the age of 86. 


14% cups brown sugar you can omit whites and tarts 
6 egg yolks will not blister as badly 
Butter size of two eggs Flavor with fresh lemon juice. 
(3 egg whites well beaten) Bake in rich pie crust 


Cream butter. Add brown sugar slowly and cream well. Beat 
six egg yolks slightly. Add to butter and sugar mixture. Last fold 
in beaten egg whites and add about 2 teaspoons of fresh lemon 
juice. Bake at about 400°F. until golden brown. 

Julia Maude Conrad, Forsyth County 


122 


PUMPKIN PIE 


This pie was Dates Simpson’s favorite when she was a child in 
the 1860’s. Later she made it for her own 13 children. 


1 cup pumpkin 1 cup milk 
1 cup sugar .2 tablespoons butter 
4 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon extract 


Cream sugar and butter, add egg yolks and beat, add milk. 
Then add cup of creamed pumpkin and flavoring. Put in unbaked 
pie shell, bake 30 minutes. Cover with meringue and brown. 

Mrs. C. T. White, Sr., Gates County 


MINCE MEAT 


This recipe is now being used by the fifth generation and 
came from the family of Governor Swain who had a county named 
for him as well as a building on the campus at Chapel Hill. He was 
also a great peace-maker with the Indians and once met with an 
Indian Chief in Western North Carolina, and for safety’s sake 
they met on a little island and after talking some time smoked 
the pipe of peace. This little settlement was afterwards known 
as Governor’s Island. 

An interesting little stéry we used to hear in connection with 
this mince meat was that in Grandpa’s family of eight children, 
the boys decided that more wine would improve the taste so each 
one secretly pours in a little wine, and secretly the father does 
the same thing. When the first pies were made one enjoyed the 
wine flavor but thought he must have put in more than he in- 
tended. 


3 measures of beef (boiled, lean, 1 measure wine (I use fruit juice— 


chopped) usually peach) 
measures raisins 


3 measures apples (chopped) 2 

1 measure suet (cut fine or 3 measures sugar 
chopped) 1 measure vinegar 

1 measure peaches (canned & cut 2 ground nutmegs 
or small) 2 teaspoons cloves 

1 measure molasses 


If a pint measure is used it makes about 9 pint jars. 

Put all ingredients in a large kettle and boil slowly until the 
apples and suet look clear and done. This is easily kept for winter 
by filling sterilized jars and sealing. It used to be kept in crocks 


before the day of glass jars. 
Mrs. B. E. Warner, Cherokee County 


123 


a 
fe Nip teer 
h wwe 

a 
we 


L- FRESH STRAWBERRY PIE 


1 baked pie shell 1 package strawberry flavored 
2% cups washed and hulled straw- gelatin 
berries 2 teaspoons lemon juice 
344 cup sugar 1 cup cream, whipped 
1 cup boiling water 1 tablespoon sugar 


Combine berries with 34, cup sugar. Add gelatin and hot 
water, then the lemon juice. Stir until gelatin is dissolved. Chill 
until it begins to set. Stir in half of the whipped cream to which 
1 tablespoon of sugar has been added. Put in the baked pie shell 
or tarts and chill until set. Top with rest of the whipped cream. 
Chopped nuts may be sprinkled on top. (Frozen strawberries may 
be used.) 

Mrs. F. D. Long, Person County 


STRAWBERRY OR PEACH SHORTCAKE (Old-Fashioned) 


This recipe came from an old “Annie Dennis” Cookbook which 
was given to me some 46 years ago. It is quite out of date, how- 
ever, the recipes are all wonderful. 

Make 2 pie crusts, not rolled as thin as for pies, however. Bake 
a light brown, sweeten a quart of crushed berries; spread them 
on the crusts, and stack. Make a meringue of the whites of 2 eggs, 
and 2 tablespoons full of sugar. Place in stove and let brown. 
Good! 

Mrs. L. L. Harvin, Pender County 


SCUPPERNONG PIE 


The book in which this recipe was found was given to my 
mother when I was a little girl. At that time the wats was very 
old and yellowed with age. 


2 eggs 1 pint canned grapes and syrup 
1% cups sugar (grapes should be slit and seeds 
3 tablespoons flour removed.) 


2 tablespoons butter 


Beat eggs slightly. Add sugar, flour and butter to eggs and 
beat until well mixed. Stir in grapes and syrup in which they 
were canned. Pour into 9 inch pastry lined pie plate. Cover with 
top crust. Bake 10 minutes at 425°F. Reduce heat to 375°F. and 
continue baking for 35 minutes. 

Mrs. Donald Witherington, Craven County 


124 


SYRUP PIE 


This recipe was taken from the cookbook of the grandmother 
of Mrs. C. B. Ross of Tennessee. Another of the Ross standbys 
in these days of little sugar is the old-fashioned syrup pie. The 
more pecans you add the better it is. I believe this must be a 
really Southern dish, for I never heard of it until I came “down 
to these parts.” But I'll bet it is a dish that we’ll still be fixing 
even when we have all the sugar we want. 


1 cup syrup 1 teaspoon vanilla 
2 eggs Pecans—however many you can 
1 tablespoon butter spare 


Beat eggs very hard, add syrup, vanilla and butter. Pour into 
unbaked pie shell and add nuts. Bake in slow oven (325°F.) until 
set. Mrs. B. S. Vassar, Durham County 


VINEGAR PIE 


My great grandmother, who is 83 years old, is still using this 
recipe which she got from her mother’s cookbook. 


3 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1'4 cups sugar Y¥, pound butter 
3 tablespoons cream or milk 1 teaspoon flour 


2 tablespoons vinegar 


Beat eggs, add milk, add sugar and flour together. Then add 
vinegar and vanilla and last add melted butter. Pour into one 
large uncooked pie shell or 2 small shells and bake slowly until set. 

Mrs. Ed Jernigan, Durham County 


VINEGAR PIE 


2 egg yolks Y, teaspoon lemon flavoring 
1 cup sugar 4 teaspoon mace 

3 tablespoons flour Pinch of salt 

1 cup boiling water 2 egg whites 

2 tablespoons vinegar 2 tablespoons sugar 

2 tablespoons butter %, teaspoon cream of tartar 


Beat egg yolks and sugar mixed with flour. Add vinegar and 
butter and pour into boiling water. Cook in double boiler until 
thick. Add salt and flavoring. Pour into baked pie shell. Make 
meringue with egg whites, sugar and cream of tartar. Spread 


i d bake in slow oven until brown. 
hea Mrs. Lee Buchanan, Mitchell County 


125 


RHUBARB PIE 


1% | cups sugar iat 1 tablespoon butter 
3 tablespoons flour 2 eggs 
Y, teaspoon nutmeg 3 cups chopped rhubarb 


Blend sugar, flour, nutmeg into butter, add eggs and beat until 
smooth. Add rhubarb. Pour into unbaked pie shell, top with 
strips of pastry and bake in hot oven ten minutes. Reduce heat 
and bake until filling thickens—about 30 minutes. 

Mrs. Hugh Terrell, Haywod County 


RHUBARB PIE 


Pour boiling water over two teacups full of chopped rhubarb. 
Drain off the water after five minutes and mix with the hot rhu- 
barb a teacup full of sugar, the yolks of two eggs, a piece of 
butter and a big pinch of flour, moistening the whole with three 
tablespoonfuls of water. Bake with the lower crust only. Make 
a meringue of the whites of the eggs with three big pinches of 
sugar. Spread over the pie and return to the oven to brown. 

Forsyth County 


7 


VINEGAR PIE 


For one pie take 14 cup sugar, 3 eggs, removing whites for 
frosting, 1 tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons vinegar, 14 cup water, 
1 tablespoon flour, flavor with nutmeg. Bake crust one-half done 
before putting in filling. Bake and frost. 

Add 1 cup of raisins and you will have a delicious raisin pie. 

Mrs. Roy 8S. Redding, Stokes County 


126 







COCOA-WALNUT CAKE 


This recipe originated in Surry County about 75 years ago. The 
cake is called Cocoa-Walnut because of the walnuts which are 
used in the icing. 


Y% cup cocoa 1 cup buttermilk 

1% cups sugar 2 cups flour to which 1 teaspoon 
'Y, cup boiling water of soda has been added, then 
% cup melted butter sifted again 
2 egg yolks 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix cocoa and sugar well; then add boiling water. Next, add 
melted butter. Then beat in 2 egg yolks. Add flour and soda mix- 
ture alternately with buttermilk. Then add vanilla. Bake in mod- 
erate oven. 


ICING 
2% cups brown sugar V4 cup water 


Boil sugar and water until it forms a ball or spins a thread 
when dropped in water. Pour mixture over beaten egg whites 
(2), beating constantly until it holds a peak, sprinkle with wal- 


nuts. Mrs. Fred Heath, Lenoir County 


TESTING COMMITTEE’S COMMENTS: 
An unusual method but results were excellent. An easy cake 


that is very good. 


LEMON SPONGE CAKE 


8 egg whites, 10 ounces sugar, 144 pound flour and 1 lemon 
(juice and grated rind). Separate eggs, beat yolks, add sugar and 
lemon juice and rind and beat until light. Whip whites until dry, 
add flour and mix other ingredients alternately, avoiding beating. 
Pour in greased pan and bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Hugh B. Bryan, Edgecombe County 


127 


DECEPTION CAKES 


The following recipe dates back to the Civil War days and was 
used by my family in Iredell County. 


14 cups flour 24 cups shortening 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 egg white whipped to a 
1 teaspoon grated rind of lemon stiff froth 
or orange 1 teaspoon salt 


Make a stiff dough and chill several hours or overnight. Melt 
214 cups lard or shortening in an iron skillet to smoking heat. 
Roll out dough in a thin sheet. Cut into small squares preferably 
with a pastry wheel, then stretch paper thin. Fry a few at a time 
until light brown. Remove and sprinkle with sugar. Drain on 
paper to remove excess fat and keep them crisp. 

Mrs. M. W. McNeill, Hoke County 


MY FAVORITE COCONUT CAKE 


1 cup shortening 4 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
3 cups cake or all-purpose flour 1 egg 


Cream shortening, sugar and egg 2 minutes. Add vanilla to 
milk. Mix flour and baking powder. Add milk and flour alternate- 
ly to sugar and egg mixture. Bake in 3-8 inch or 9 inch pans at 
375°F. until done. When cool put together with coconut filling. 


(Add 1 teaspoon salt if butter is not used) 


FILLING 
3 cups sugar VY, teaspoon salt 
1% cups coconut milk or water 1 grated or ground coconut 


Boil together for 3 minutes, add coconut and boil 1 minute 
longer, add vanilla if desired. 
Mrs. Raymond Oakley, Person County 


PLANTATION CAKE 


Mother Anderson’s conviction that good eating is part of good 
living stems from her Pennsylvania Dutch heritage. When she 
started her well-known hotel at Wabasha, Minn., in 1896, she 
sought out the best recipes possible and served frequently those 
most desired by her guests. 

From an old home in the Magnolia State, she obtained this 
Chocolate Mint-Cream Plantation Cake. She described it as “an 
unbelievable cake to end all cakes.” This rich and fabulous dessert 


128 


cake is best served the same day it is made. This cake serves Ve 

Separate 6 eggs. To the egg yolks gradually add 1 cup sugar, 
beating constantly. Add 1 cup boiling water slowly, and then 1 
teaspoon vanilla. Fold in 214 cups sifted cake flour, which has 
been sifted three times with 3 teaspoons baking powder. 

Gradually add 1 cup sugar to the stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Fold into the first mixture. Bake in a 10-inch ungreased tube pan 
in a moderate oven, 350°F. for about 114 hours. Let cool. Then 
split into three layers and spread with the following mint cream 
filling. Then frost lavishly with delicate chocolate frosting. 

Mint cream filling: Combine 34 cup sugar with 4 tablespoons 
cornstarch, mix well and add 14, teaspoon salt, 1 cup water, 2 egg 
yolks and 3 teaspoons butter, cook in the top of a double boiler 
for 15 minutes, or until quite thick. Add 1 teaspoon peppermint 
extract or 3 drops essence of peppermint, cool and use as filling 
for cake. 

Delicate chocolate frosting: Combine 1 cup cocoa with 34, cup 
sugar and gradually fold in 134, cups heavy cream, whipped. Beat 
until stiff. Frosts one layer cake. 

Margaret Renigar, Yadkin County 


MY FAVORITE LARGE CAKE 


1 cup butter 1 teaspoon orange flavoring 
2 cups sugar 'Y, teaspoon lemon flavoring 
4 eggs 3 teaspoons baking powder 
1 cup fresh milk 3 cups pastry flour (sifted with 
4, teaspoon salt dry ingredients 3 times) 


Cream butter; add sugar gradually and cream. Add unbeaten 
egos, one at a time, beating thoroughly after each. Fold in dry 
ingredients alternately with milk, beginning and ending with flour 
mixture. Add flavoring. Bake in 4 layers in moderately hot oven 
(375°F.) for 25 minutes. 


BOILED FROSTING 


Boil 214 cups sugar, 14 cup water, 14 cup white corn syrup and 
14 teaspoon salt until syrup spins a thread or forms soft ball 
when dropped in cold water. Beat 2 egg whites stiff. Pour 
hot syrup slowly over egg whites, beating constantly. Beat until 
cool and frosting holds shape when dropped from spoon. Add 1 
teaspoon vanilla flavoring. Makes enough for top and sides of 4 


layers. Margaret Blanchard, Avery County 


129 


SKILLET CAKE OR CENTURY CAKE 


My grandmother baked her cake in a skillet in an open fire- 
place. Her recipe was four times as large as this one, and was 
always baked for Thanksgiving and Christmas. It was very in- 
expensive. It is at least 150 years old. 

Into your sifter put two cups of plain flour, 1 cup sugar, 14 
teaspoon each of salt, cloves, and nutmeg and 1 teaspoon cin- 
namon. Sift twice. Into mixing bow] put 1 cup of thick sour milk, 
yolk of 1 egg, 14 cup of melted shortening, 1 level teaspoon of 
soda and 1 teaspoon lemon extract. Beat well with hand or egg 
beater. Add two tablespoons of molasses, beat again. Add flour 
mixture and 1 cup of raisins (or dates or, in summer, berries) to 
batter. Beat egg white stiff and fold into batter. Grease and line 
a pan with paper. Bake in medium oven 114 hours. Cover with 
butter icing when cold. 

Mrs. H. C. McDonald, Craven County 


ELIZABETH’S SPONGE CAKE 


This recipe was given to us by Miss Margaret Clark. It is her 
mother’s favorite recipe and has been in the Clark family of 
Bladen County for several generations. 

5 egg yolks and whites beaten 1 cup flour sifted twice after 

separately measuring 
1 cup sugar sifted 


Cream sugar and egg yolks until a lemon color. Add flour and 
stifly beaten egg whites. After combining beat just enough to 
mix well. Bake in a loaf or 2 small layer pans in a moderate oven 


until done. Mrs. Ishmael Pittman, Johnston County 


WHIPPED CREAM CAKE 


1 cup whipping cream Sait 
2 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla 
1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons baking powder 


tY cups flour 


Whip cream. Add one egg at a time and continue whipping. 
Mix sugar and other dry ingredients and sift together several 
times. Then fold into cream mixture. Add vanilla. Makes two 
small layers. For three large layers double. Cook in 425°F. to 


450°F". oven. Mrs. Algen Clay, Granville County 


130 


ABRAHAM LINCOLN’S FAVORITE WHITE CAKE 


Long ago a French caterer in Lexington, Kentucky made a 
wonderful white cake in honor of his countryman, Lafayette, who 
was to pay a visit to the city. The cake was beautifully decorated 
with flags made of colored sugar and with marvelous icing, but 
the cake itself contained only the whites of eggs, and when cut 
was snow-white. Thereupon every famous cake baker in the 
Blue-Grass region immediately began making white cakes; and 
the recipe for the most famous of all was originated in the house- 
hold of the ancestors of Mary Todd, who many years afterward 
made the cake for Abraham Lincoln. Later when she became his 
wife, he declared this white cake was the best in Kentucky. Here 
is Mary Todd’s recipe with modern baking powder included: 


1 cupfull of butter Whites of 6 eggs 

2 cupfulls sugar 1 teaspoon of vanilla or other 
1 cupfull of milk flavoring as preferred 

3 cupfulls of flour 1 cupfull of chopped blanched 
3 teaspoons of baking powder almonds 


Cream butter well, add sugar and cream again, sift flour and 
baking powder together, add to butter and sugar alternately with 
milk. Then stir in the chopped nut meats and beat well, finally 
fold in the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs, add flavoring. Pour 
into a well greased, paper lined pan and bake one hour in a 
moderate oven. Ice with boiled icing to which you have added 
half a cupful of candied pineapple and cherries cut in very small 


pieces. 
Margaret Renigar, Yadkin County 


AUNT BETTIE’S WEDDING CAKE 


This wedding cake has been used in our family for generations. 
It was used for my wedding in 1917. 
1 cup milk 8 eggs 


2 cups butter 1% teaspoon salt 
3 cups sugar 2 teaspoons lemon flavoring 


4 cups flour 


Cream sugar, salt and butter together. Add eggs one at a time, 
beating well after each addition. Then add flour alternately with 
milk. Mix well, then add flavoring. Cook in a large loaf pan 350°F. 
for about one hour or until done. Ice and decorate as desired. 

Mrs. T. J. Wetherington, Craven County 


131 


CAKE BATTER RECIPE 


When I came to my new home as a bride, I was given a cook 
book by my sister-in-law. Among the recipes, some old and some 
new, I found this cake batter recipe. My husband’s grandmother, 
who lived during the Civil War at the same location we are now 
living, used this recipe so it should be well over 100 years old. 
The mixing or rather beating is the secret. 


1 cup butter 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
5 eggs 1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 


3 cups flour 


Cream butter and sugar well. Add eggs, after well beaten. Sift 
baking powder and flour together. Then add flour and baking 
powder and milk, alternately. Add vanilla. Beat well and bake 
in 8 layers 400°F. 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Milton Latta, Orange County 


APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


This is my husband’s favorite cake. His mother always made 
it for his homecoming. 


'Y, cup butter 1 egg 
1 cup nutmeats 4 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup thick sweetened applesauce 
1 cup sugar 1 cup raisins 
134 cups sifted cake flour 1 teaspoon soda 


4, teaspoon cloves 


Sift a few tablespoons of the flour over nut meats and raisins. 
Cream butter and sugar, beat in egg. Add nut meats and raisins. 
Sift flour with soda and spices. Stir into butter mixture. Last, add 
the apple sauce which has been heated. Bake cake in a 9-inch tube 
pan lined with buttered paper, in moderate oven for about one- 
half to one hour. It is delicious. 


Mrs. Dallas C. Kirby, Stokes County 


FILLING FOR APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


2 cups sugar 3 egg whites 

1 tablespoon butter 1 coconut (grated) 

1 cup hot water 

Cook sugar, water and butter until it spins a thread. Beat in 
egg whites and add coconut. 


132 


APPLE SAUCE CAKE 


1 cup butter . 1 teaspoon cloves 

2 cups granulated sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

2 cups stewed apples 2 teaspoons soda sifted in apples 
3 eggs 2 cups seeded raisins 

1 pound all-purpose flour 2 cups chopped nuts 


Cream butter and sugar, add apples and eggs. Sift together 
flour, cinnamon and cloves, mix with nuts and raisins and add 
to first mixture. Pour in four nine inch greased and floured cake 
pans. Bake in moderate oven 375°F. 

Mrs. William Rogers, Person County 


FIESTA BANANA CAKE 


1 cup sugar 3 eggs 

Y, cup brown sugar 2% cups of flour 

344 cup butter 1 cup mashed bananas 
1 teaspoon vanilla 1 cup milk 


Cream sugar and shortening. Add well beaten eggs. Add 
vanilla, milk and ficur. Pour into well oiled layer pans, bake in 
moderate oven (375° F.) 25 minutes. Makes 2-9 inch layers. 


FILLING 
1 cup whipping cream , cup chopped nuts 
3 tablespoons sugar 14, cup chopped cherries 
1 teaspoon vanilla Sliced bananas 


Whip cream stiff, adding sugar and vanilla. Add chopped nuts. 
Slice bananas, cover cake layer. Cover the layer then with whip- 
ped cream mixture. Add other layer and repeat process. Decorate 
top with sliced banana, cherries, and nut halfs. 

Mrs. Jack Woodcock, Pender County 


| CLAY CAKE 
y at 4 Te AY 


/¢+ This was my grandmother’ s recipe and is over 1G years old. 
; 
F 1 pound flour Ie (4 ', pound of butter = “<> 
. 1 teacup of cream. 


fae, c 
: ae Katy zs iv Dy 6S A little sateralus” Ani 
Mix the ingredients together and bake in pan. Start in oven 
at 375°F. Mrs. J. E. Lackey, Caldwell County 
TESTING COMMITTEE’S COMMENTS: 
It is very good and would be a good substitute for a true pound 


cake. 
133 


DAMSON PRESERVE CAKE 


This recipe has been in my mother’s family for over a hundred 
years. 


6 \.ggs 1% teaspoons salt 
2 cups sugar 2 cups damson or peach pzeserves 
344 cup butter 2 teaspoons allspice, cinnamon 
2 teaspoons soda (dissolved in 4 ard nutmeg 
cup buttermilk) 1 teaspoon cloves 


4 cups all-purpose flour 


Cream butter with one cup sugar; beat other cup into egg 
yolks. Then add this to the creamed butter mixture. Sift dry 
ingredients together. Add to egg and sugar mixture, then fold in 
stiffly beaten egg whites. Add preserves and mix well. This makes 
four nine inch layers. Bake in 350° F. oven. It may be put to- 
gether as two cakes with any good white frosting. This cake 
improves with age. 

Mrs. John A. Reagan, Buncombe County 


DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE 


1'4 cups butter 1 level teaspoon soda 
2 cups sugar 1 cup sour milk 
6 eggs beaten separately 4 pound chocolate 
3 cups flour 1 tablespoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar together, add yolks of eggs. Dissolve 
the soda into the cup of sour milk and alternately add it and the 
flour to the butter, sugar, and eggs. Melt the chocolate and stir 
well into the cake. Add the vanilla and fold in the beaten whites 
of eggs. Cook slowly in medium oven. This recipe makes three 
nice size layers. 


FILLING 
1 cup butter Y4, teaspoon salt 
1 cup cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 
1 cup sweet milk Y, pound chocolate 


5 cups sugar 


Boil cream, milk, butter and sugar until it makes a soft ball in 
water. Break the chocolate into small pieces in a bowl and pour 
the mixture over it. Let stand until cool, add butter and beat until 
creamy, then spread over cake. This cake will stay fresh for 
many days. 

: Mrs. Eddie Ferrell, Lee County 


134 


DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE 
This recipe has been in the family for about thirty years. 


2 cups sugar 1% teaspoons soda 

1 cup shortening (butter or 1 teaspoon salt 
mixed) 1 cup sweet milk 

3 eggs 34 cup cocoa 

3 cups cake flour Y, cup hot water 


Cream sugar and shortening. Add 1 egg at a time and beat well. 
Sift all dry ingredients except cocoa. Add to first mixture, alter- 
nately with milk. Mix cocoa and hot water together until it forms 
a thick paste. Add this to batter. Bake in layers at 350°F. for 30 
minutes. Frost with your favorite icing. 

Mrs. Fred Bryant, Mitchell County 


LADY BALTIMORE CAKE 


1'4 cups granulated sugar 3 cups flour 
1 scant cup butter (room 2 level teaspoons baking powder 
temperature) 6 egg whites 
1 cup milk 


Beat butter and sugar until light and creamy. Add milk alter- 
nately with flour into baking powder which has been sifted. Add 
stiffly beaten egg whites. (Makes three good layers) 


OLD FASHIONED JELLY ROLL 
This jelly roll is tasty and easy to make. It is over 100 years old. 


4 eggs, whole 34 teaspoon baking powder 
“4 cup sugar \, teaspoon salt 
3, cup sifted cake flour 34 teaspoon flavoring (favorite) 


This first step is quite a chore, but an important one. Beat 
eggs until light and S-T-I-F-F. Add sugar gradually. Mix well. 
Add flavoring and fold in dry ingredients, which have been sifted 
together at least three times. Mix thoroughly, turn into un- 
greased pan and bake in oven 350°F. for 20 minutes. 

Mrs. Paul Ipock, Craven County 


DATE LOAF CAKE 


This is a very famous New Orleans recipe brought to North 
Carolina by the Hairston Family who live in Davie County, on 
the beautiful Peter Hairston farm east of Mocksville. It has been 


135 


given to friends at Yadkin College in Davidson County and has 
become famous as Hairston Date Loaf Cake. 


1 pound dates stoned 1 pound English walnuts or pecans 


Leave dates and nuts whole. Sift over them 1 cup of pastry 
flour, 14 teaspoon salt, 2 rounded teaspoons baking powder that 
have been sifted together three times. Mix thoroughly. Add 1 
cup of granulated sugar and mix again. 

Beat the whites of four eggs until dry and yolks until light 
colored and thick. Mix yolks evenly, through the cake. Then mix 
in the whites and add 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Bake in pan lined with buttered paper about one hour. Heat 
of oven must be moderate (350°F.). 

Davidson County 


MY FAVORITE “DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE” 


Mix 1% cup cocoa, 14 cup water, 1 teaspoon soda, and let stand 
until the following is mixed: 


134 cups sugar 344 cup butter 
2 eggs beaten separately 34 cup sour milk 
2'%4 cups flour 1 teaspoon baking powder 


1 teaspoon vanilla 


Cream butter and sugar. Add egg yolks. Dissolve baking pow- 
der in milk and add alternately with flour. Add vanilla and the 
cocoa mixture. Beat well and add the stiffly beaten egg whites. 
Bake in layers and put together with the following mocha icing: 

2 cups powdered sugar 5’ tablespoons hot coffee 

1 


4 heaping teaspoons cocoa teaspoon vanilla 
Butter size of an egg 


Beat until smooth, and cover cake. 
Mrs. Linnie M. Chandler, Caswell County 


MOTHER’S CAKE 


This recipe was given me by Mrs. Paul Thompson who uses 
it weekly as a favorite for the Curb Market. Mrs. Thompson has 
used it herself for the past thirty years and it was given to her 
by a cousin, Miss Bertha Casey, who says the recipe is a family 
heritage almost. Miss Bert (as everyone knows her) said she 
got the recipe from a dear friend of hers back in the days of the 


136 


one-room schoolhouse—the year 1900. Miss Louisa Daniels gave 
her the recipe and it was copied from her mother’s cook book 
which dates back to the year of 1885 to 1900. Miss Bert laughing- 
ly says, more than one good thing was learned in the little red 
schoolhouse other than reading, writing, and arithmetic. 


9 


3 Cups Sugar 1 cup sweet milk 
1'%4 cups butter 4 cups flour 
8 eggs 1 teaspoon lemon extract 


2 teaspoons baking powder 

Cream sugar and butter thoroughly; add one egg at a time, 
beating constantly; sift flour and baking powder twice. Add two 
cups flour, 14 cup milk. Mix well before adding remainder of flour 
and milk, blend well, add flavoring. Pour into a ten inch tube pan 
(which has been greased—bake at (325°F.) for one hour or until 


done. 
a Mrs. Marvin L. Smith, Wayne County 


FIVE MINUTE DEVIL’S FOOD CAKE 


This recipe was printed in a Tennessee newspaper on February 
7, 1947 and was taken from the cook book of Mrs. C. B. Ross’ 
grandmother. The Ross family still enjoy this old time cake. 


2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 
Y, cup lard Y, cup sour milk 

2 eggs 1 teaspoon soda 

2 cups all-purpose flour 1 cup boiling water 


3 heaping tablespoons cocoa 

Cream sugar and shortening, add eggs and beat vigorously. 
Sift the cocoa, soda and flour together and add with the butter- 
milk and vanilla. Last of all add the boiling water. This makes a 
very thin batter. Bake in oblong pan in moderate oven (350°F.) 
until done—about 45 minutes. 

One can actually have it in the oven in five minutes. The cake 
is deliciously moist and keeps well. It is usually baked in an oblong 
pan and let cool right in the pan. The top is spread with icing 
and cut in squares for serving. It, too, is an old trick—leaving 
the cake in the pan for “family use.” It keeps the cake fresh and 


Tar gee Mrs. B. S. Vassar, Durham County 
FILLING 
2 cups sugar (granulated) 1 cup raisins 
1 cup nuts 


Y, cup water 
2 egg whites 
Boil sugar and water until it will spin a thread. Have egg 


1 12 ounce package marshmallows 


137 


whites beaten stiff—pour syrup over very slowly beating all the 

time. Add raisins, nuts and marshmallows. Beat until marsh- 

mallows are partly melted. Put between layers and on top of cake. 
Mrs. Boyce Helms, Union County 


JELLY ROLL 
4 eggs, separated 34 cup sifted flour 
34 cup sugar 34 teaspoon baking powder 
1 teaspoon vanilla 4 teaspoon salt 


Beat egg yolks until light. Add sugar gradually and then flavor- 
ing. When blended, add flour that has been sifted with baking 
powder and salt. Last, fold in egg whites that have been whipped 
until stiff but not dry. Line a 15” x 10” pan with heavy buttered 
paper. Pour in batter and bake in moderate oven for about 6 to 
12 minutes. 

While cake is hot, trim hard edges, spread cake with jelly, 
jam, or a cake filling, and roll it in waxed paper. Sprinkle with 


powdered sugar. Mrs. J. L. Jordan, Wilkes County 


MAMA’S CARAMEL CAKE 
My mother taught me to make this cake before she died in 
1921, at the age of 58. 


2 cups sugar 6 egg whites, room temperature 
1 cup butter, creamed well 3 teaspoons baking powder 

1 cup milk, room temperature Pinch of salt 

3 cups flour 1 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 


Cream butter with hands. Add sugar by tablespoon—one at a 
time and cream well. Add baking powder and salt to twice sifted 
flour, and sift together. Add milk and flour to sugar and butter 
alternately. Beat whites of eggs to froth (not too stiff) and fold 
into mixture. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix well. Bake in four. 
layers. Put together with caramel icing. 


CARAMEL ICING 


3 cups brown sugar 1 cup sweet milk or cream 
—have it room temperature 


Boil over moderate fire or until forms soft ball in cold water. 
Remove from fire and add 14 cup butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Beat until creamy. (Add little cream or hot water if icing be- 
comes too thick.) 

Julia Maude Conrad, Forsyth County 


138 


WAR TIME SPECIAL CAKE 


1 cup butter or vegetable fat 1 cup fruit preserves, drained 
1 cup sugar of juice 
4 eggs 1 cup broken nut meats, black 
1 cup flour walnuts, pecans, or English 
1 cup cooked sweetened walnuts 

dried apples 1 teaspoon salt 
3 tablespoons cocoa 1 teaspoon baking powder 


pea 


1 cup chopped dried figs teaspoon ground cinnamon or 
2 cups raisins other spices 
2 teaspoons vanilla 

Cream butter and sugar. Add whole eggs and beat well. Sift 
flour and other dry ingredients together and add, mixing well, 
apples, preserves, figs, raisins, nuts, in order named. Mixing 
thoroughly. Add vanilla. Turn into paper-lined pound cake pan, 
and cook in slow oven until it tests done by the stick method. 
Usually takes about 114 hours from 300°F. to 350°F. 

We learned to make this cake during World War II when 
sugar was rationed. The fruits, preserves, etc. take the place of 
one-half the usual amount of sugar. 

Mrs. Clyde Roberts, Orange County 


ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR CAKE 


My mother, Mrs. R. D. Thomas used this recipe as far back as 
1900 and I think she got it from her mother, the George family 
of Chatham County. I can remember vividly when our old colored 
cook, Florence Hocutt, prepared this delicious cake for us when 
we were girls. My three sisters also use this basic recipe for most 
of their cake baking. 


1 cup butter 3 cups sifted cake flour 

2 cups sugar 4 teaspoon salt 

A eggs, separated 3 teaspoons baking powder 
{ teaspoon vanilla 1 cup milk 


Cream shortening and sugar until fluffy. Add egg yolks one 
at a time, beating thoroughly after each one is added. Sift dry 
ingredients together three times and add alternately with milk 
and vanilla to cream mixture, beating until smooth after each 
addition. Fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Pour into pans lined 
with wax paper and bake in moderate oven (350°F.) 25 minutes. 
Use different icings as desired. 

Mrs. L. L. Layton, Lee County 
Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. E. D. Evans, Durham County 


139 


MOM’S SPICE CAKE 
This was one of the best of the cake recipes found in my grand- 
mother’s recipe folder. It is many, many years old. 


1 cup sugar Y, teaspoon salt 

2 cups sifted all-purpose flour 1 egg 

1 teaspoon nutmeg 3 tablespoons molasses 
Y teaspoon cloves 4 cup shortening 
14 teaspoon soda 4 cup butter 

2 teaspoons baking powder 1 cup sweet milk 


Heat oven to 350° F. Sift dry ingredients. Blend butter and 
shortening. Add unbeaten eggs and molasses. Add dry ingredients 
alternately with milk. Mix well but do not over heat. Bake until 
done using a loaf pan. 

Daisy B. Hurley, Haywood County 


SALLY LUNN 


Warm 14 cup of butter in 1 pint of milk. Add 1 teaspoon of 
salt, 1 tablespoon of sugar and 7 cups of sifted flour. Beat thor- 
oughly and when the mixture is lukewarm, add 4 beaten eggs 
and last of all 14 cun good lively yeast. Beat hard until the batter 
breaks in blisters. Let it rise overnight. In the morning, dissolve 
14 teaspoon of soda, stir it into the batter and turn it into a well 
buttered shallow dish to rise again about 15 minutes. Bake a light 
brown. The cake should be torn apart as cutting with a knife 
makes warm bread heavy. This cake is frequently seen on South- 
ern tables. 

Mrs. Etta Brookshire, Buncombe County 


SALLY WHITE CAKE 


This recipte is quite old and has become traditional in Wilming- 
ton, North Carolina. The name refers, not to its light color, but to 
the woman who originated it. 


2 pounds shelled almonds 1 dozen eggs 

1 pound citron 1 pound butter 

2 coconuts grated 2 teaspoons mace 

1 pound flour 2 teaspoons nutmeg 


1 pound sugar 


Cream butter and sugar. Add beaten eggs, flour, and fruit. Add 
flavoring and spices. Bake at 250°F. about 2 hours. 


Bess S. Butler, Cherokee County 


140 


RIBBON 
White part— 


2 cups sugar 
% cup butter 
2 cup milk 
3 cups flour 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
8 eggs, whites 
Bake in layers 


FIG CAKE 


Gold part— 
Y, cup butter 
1 cup sugar beaten to a cream 
1 whole egg and 7 yolks 
Y cup milk 
14 cups flour 
1 teaspoon baking powder 


Season strongly with cinnamon and allspice. Put half the gold 
cake into a pan, and lay on it halved figs closely; dust with a little 
flour and then put on the rest of the cake and bake. Put the gold 
cake between the white cakes, using frosting between them, and 


cover with frosting. 


Mrs. C. B. Jones, Ashe County 


SWEET POTATO CAKE 


1 pint mashed sweet potatoes 
2 eggs 
14% cups flour 
Y cup milk 
4 cup butter 


34 cup sugar 
1 teaspoon nutmeg or cinnamon 
2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 teaspoon salt 
Juice of 2 lemon 


Add the butter and beaten eggs to the potato while still hot; 
add the sugar, salt and nutmeg or cinnamon. Sift together the 
fiour and baking powder and add to the potato alternately with 
the milk. Add the lemon juice, pour into a greased pan and bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Mrs. Carl Stephens, Columbus County 


WAGWOOD FAVORITE CAKE 


1 cup sugar, 3 eggs h 


1 cup jam Lbsokbsry 4 VHA, 
4, 3 cups flour 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 

', teaspoon cloves 

4 cup shortening, 


DyeL | 


ther t 


350° 


4 cup sour milk Si pare oak: 
1 teaspoon soda‘: te ap Py; aking fe ; 
4 teaspoon allspice 

H cup raisins, if desired 

ge | cif IC: . 
ew a 


VL « 
Lae 


Cream butter ae sugar. Ad Add jam} slightly beaten eggs, and 
soda dissolved in sour milk. Sift together flour, cinnamon, cloves, 


and allspice. Add this to first mixture. 


abil. £ ay 


in three layers. 


Mrs. J. I. Wagoner, Guilford County 


ly 


ot: 
fol zy AA , 


ie « 294 ff 


iy see 


+ 
Ue CA ately 


141 
Wt a ‘Y 


49 plot 


5 thay 


al as a] 


(Ve 6 


Fold in raisins, and bak 
to fanrrt: f22 frit 4 


wed 
(Aars 


nabed ind a hkinn0M 
(! ee “LV Lhiw drat 
la POF Kee Fi 


frtuur aig 
. 4 f 
, 4 re A.) SiEn zk a 6 ane 


pwrtgt . 


TEXAS CAKE 
Here is a delicious 100 year old cake recipe brought from the 
Northern states when Texas was struggling for independence. It 
has been handed down from one generation of Texans to another. 


1 cup butter or other shortening 6 squares (6 ounces) unsweetened 
2 cups granulated sugar chocolate 

4, cup old time brown sugar 1 tablespoon vanilla 

5 eggs, separated 3 cups flour mixed and sifted with 
1 cup sour milk 1 teaspoon baking powder 

1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 4 4 teaspoon salt 


cup cold water 


Melt chocolate: Add to shortening, and cream until very soft. 
Gradually add two cups granulated sugar, creaming constantly, 
then well beaten egg yolks, 14 cup old time brown sugar. Mix 
dissolved soda, flavoring and milk. Add liquid and flour alternate- 
ly, beating thoroughly after each addition. Fold in egg whites 
which have been beaten until stiff but not dry. Bake in three 
greased and floured layer cake pans in moderately hot oven 
(875° F.) for 30 minutes. Spread with Ever Ready Frosting or 
Fudge Frosting. 


Mrs. Will Garner, Yadkin County 


DOLLY MADISON FRUIT CAKE 


This is a recipe my grandmother used in making wedding cakes 
for brides in her community. She baked the cakes in the fireplace 
in an oven with the lid on it. She put oak coals underneath and 
on top of the oven and cooked it this way for 1 hour and 45 
minutes. A smaller cake may be made by dividing this recipe in 
half. 


1 pound brown sugar 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 pound butter 2 nutmegs, grated 

1 pound flour 1 gill molasses (4% cup) 

2 pounds raisins, seeded 1 teaspoon soda 

2 pounds currants 2 teaspoons cream of tartar 

1 pound citron 1 pound blanced almonds chopped 
12 eggs fine 


1 teaspoon allspice 


Mix as usual, adding flour and stiffly beaten egg whites alter- 
nately. Flour all fruits before using, but use some of the flour 
called for in the recipe—not additional flour. Bake in a moderate 
oven. 

Mrs. David Koonce, Hoke County 


142 


MINNEHAHA CAKE 


2 cups sugar 6 egg whites 
Y cup butter 3 cups flour 
1 cup milk 3 teaspoons baking powder 


Combine ingredients and bake in layers. 
Make the frosting as follows: 
2 cups granulated sugar 2 egg whites 


Measure sugar in pan. Pour about 5 or 6 tablespoons of boiling 
water over the sugar and let boil 3 or 4 minutes until it strands 
when poured from a spoon. Pour over the whites, which have been 
beaten to a stiff froth. Pour the sugar on slowly, beating until 
cool. Mix with this one cup small raisins, and one cup English 
walnuts cut to the size of the raisins. Spread between the layers 
and on the top of the cake. 

Mrs. Creola B. Holyfield, Surry County 


WASHINGTON’S LOAF CAKE 


3 cups sugar 1 cup sour milk 

2 scant cups of butter 3 teaspoons cinnamon 
5 eggs 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

4 eups of flour 2 cups raisins 

1 teaspoon soda 1 cup currants 


Mix as usual. Dredge fruit in flour and stir in at the last. Line 
the cake pan with paper well buttered. This cake will take longer 
to bake than a plain one. The heat of the oven must be kept at an 


even temperature. 
Mrs. Etta Brookshire, Buncombe County 


VELVET CAKE 


This cake has been used in our community for many years 
and is the favorite wedding cake of many brides for past genera- 


tions. 


34, pound butter 1 cup sweet milk 
2% cups sugar 3% cups flour 
6 eggs or 7 and leave out 2 whites 3 teaspoons baking powder 
for icing 1 teaspoon lemon flavoring 


Cream butter. Add sugar. Add one egg at a time. Mix and sift 
the flour and baking powder. Add alternately with the milk. Add 
flavoring. Bake in a well greased pan 1 hour and 10 minutes at 


350°F. Cool and cover with boiled icing. 
Mrs. H. C. Benton, Wake County 


143 


JAPANESE FRUIT CAKE 


This recipe came from my daughter-in-law who got it from 
a friend. It has been tried several times and it makes a very good 
fruit cake staying moist for a long time. I am one of the oldest 
club members in Wilson County. 


1 box cherries 1 teaspoon spice 
1 box raisins 2 cups sugar 

2 cups coconut 1 cup butter 

1 cup pecans 1 cup milk 

1 cup walnuts 3 cups flour 

1 package figs 6 eggs 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Prepare all fruit for the batter and flour it. Make the batter 
like any other cake. Add spice and fruit a little at the time until 
all is put in. This amount will make two three layer cakes. 


FILLING 
2 oranges 2 cups coconut 
2 lemons 4 tablespoons flour 
2 cups sugar 1 cup boiling water 


Mix flour and sugar together in pan, squeeze juice of lemons 
and oranges. Add boiling water, let cook until thick like honey. 
Add coconut and cook 10 minutes longer. 

Mrs. 8. L. Galloway, Wilson County 


JAPANESE FRUIT CAKE 


4 pound butter 34 cup sweet milk 
2 cups sugar 24% cups flour 
6 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream butter and sugar well, add eggs one at a time beating 
after each. Sift the baking powder with flour and add alternately 
with the milk to creamed mixture. This makes four layers. Divide 
batter in half. To one half add 14 box raisins, 14 teaspoon each 
allspice and nutmeg, 2 tablespoons molasses, and 2 teaspoons 
wine. Mix. Bake two layers each of light and dark mixtures. 

Fill with the following: Into sauce pan put one small grated 
coconut, rind and juice of two lemons, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup boiling 
water, 2 heaping tablespoons cornstarch or flour, and 14 box 
raisins. Cook mixture, stirring constantly until thick. Fill cake 
with this mixture—using light and dark layer alternately. This 
cake keeps for months in tight container. Delicious! 

Mrs. R. E. Rhyne, Catawba County 


144 


JAPANESE FRUIT CAKE 


From the family of Matthew T. Yates first Baptist Missionary 
from North Carolina to China in 1850. 

1 cup butter, 2 cups sugar—creamed well. Add 4 eggs and beat 
well then 1 cup milk and the following dry materials sifted to- 
gether: 8 cups flour, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon each—allspice, 
cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and 3 teaspoons baking powder. Lastly 
beat in 2 cups chopped raisins (seedless ones preferred). Bake 
in 8 pans. 

Put together with this filling: 2 cups sugar mixed with 4 
tablespoons flour. Add juice of 2 lemons and one whole egg, beat- 
ing well. Then add 1 grated coconut with milk from nut. Cook 
slowly till thick and smooth. I use a double boiler to avoid stir- 
ring so constantly. 

Mrs. E. L. Johnson, Wake County 


FRUIT CAKE 

1 pound walnuts 6 eggs 
1 pound pecans 2 rings pineapple 
4 pound raisins (seedless) (1 red and 1 green to decorate) 
4 pound figs Y% pound green cherries (to 
1% pound dates decorate) 
'4 pound candied pineapple 5 cups flour 
Y% pound citron 1 teaspoon allspice 
4, pound candied red cherries 1 teaspoon ginger 
1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
4 heaping tablespoons baking 1% teaspoon salt 

powder 2 cups brewed coffee 


Mix butter, coffee, molasses in big pan. Let melt. Mix 2 cups 
flour with the cut up fruit and nuts. Put remaining flour with 
spices, salt and baking powder. Add eggs to the melted mixture 
and then add to flour mixture. Mix well. Add floured fruit and 
mix well. Pour in pans and steam 114 hours. Remove from steam- 
er and put into a warm oven for 14 hour. 


Note: Weigh nuts before shelling. 
Mrs. B. S. Vassar, Durham County 


FRUIT CAKE 


Miss Sallie McDowell, grandmother of Colonel Joseph McDowell 
of the Battle of Kings Mountain fame, owned a cook book that 
had been in the McDowell family for years. She owned it for over 


145 


50 years herself at that time about 1904. The recipe was copied 
from the book by nieces of Miss McDowell. She told the story 
to us that at one Christmas time when she was a very small girl 
the governor then of North Carolina stopped by at the McDowell 
home in Rutherfordton for a short visit and he was served some 
of the fruit cake made by this recipe. He so thoroughly enjoyed 
it the family sent him one each year for a number of years 
afterwards. 


1 pound of sugar, butter and 2 pounds of seeded raisins 
flour 2 pounds currants 
12 or 14 eggs according to size 1 teaspoon allspice 
2 large spoonfuls of molasses 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 wine glass of wine 1 tablespoon vanilla 
1 teaspoon cloves Y, pound citron 
1 teaspoon mace Y, pound figs 


Cut the raisins, figs and citron fine. Look the currants over, 
taking out stems and other trash, wash thoroughly and dry. (A 
good plan is to prepare all the fruit the day before.) 

Stir the sugar and butter together and cream well. Add the well 
beaten yolks, then the flour and well beaten egg whites, alternate- 
ly. Add spices and wine. Mix well. Then add the fruit, that has 
been lightly floured with a portion of the measured out flour. 
Use the flour remaining from dusting the fruit in the batter 
also. Line a well greased stem cake pan with paper and then 
grease the paper well also. Bake in a very slow oven for five hours. 
If it browns too quickly on top, place pan of water on the upper 
rack or a heavy brown paper directly over cake. This makes a 
9 pound cake with a little left over to bake separately for a 
sample. 3 

Mrs. O. J. Holler, Rutherford County 


“MISS MINNIE’S” FRUIT-NUT CAKE 


Many years ago a little girl of ten years was up long before 
day cooking breakfast for a family of eight and preparing lunch 
for her father and three brothers who worked in the “log woods.” 
She became a skilled cook and her friends often advised her to 
enter the commercial world and present her posters to the public. 
Her greatest joy was found in preparing “special treats” for her 
family and friends. One brother who settled in Alabama quite 
often wrote back for “Minnie’s Recipe” for one thing or another. 
One special favorite was her fruit-nut cake which was made in 
layers instead of a loaf. This recipe won a radio prize for the best 


146 


recipe of the air. The recipe was original with my mother, Mrs. 
Minnie Overton who lived to be nearly 84 years old. 


3 cups flour 1 box seeded raisins (ground) 
4 cups sugar 1 box dates (chopped) 

4 eggs 2 cups walnuts or pecans 

1 cup butter (chopped) 

1 teaspoon vanilla 2 cups milk 


3 cups coconut 


BATTER 


Cream butter and 114 cups sugar. Break 4 eggs in separate 
bowl, beat with rotary beater and add to butter and sugar. Add 
3 cups flour and one cup milk alternately. Add 1 cup coconut, 
1% box raisins and 1 cup nuts to the batter. Add 1 teaspoon 
vanilla. Pour in 3 greased and papered 9 inch cake tins. Bake 
in oven at 350°F. 


FILLING 


Put 244 cups sugar and 1 cup milk in pan. Boil until a firm 
soft ball can be rolled between fingers. Remove from fire and add 
remainder of raisins and dates to the stew pan. Stir and mix well. 
Add remaining coconut and nuts. Spread on layers. 

Mrs. O. E. Willoughby, Hertford County 


MOIST FRUIT CAKE 


This recipe has been in constant use since 1847. 


1'%% pound butter walnuts or mixed) 
1 pound sugar 1 cup molasses (not too dark) 
1 pound flour 12 eggs 
VY, pound citron, sliced 2 teaspoons cinnamon 
Y, pound candied orange peel, sliced 2 teaspoon allspice 
1 pound dates Y, teaspoon cloves 
1 pound seeded raisins 1 teaspoon salt 
1 pound almonds, blanched 1 teaspoon lemon extract 
Y, pound candied lemon peel, sliced 1 teaspoon orange extract 
1 pound nuts (Brazil, pecan, 1 teaspoon nutmeg 


Cream butter until very soft and creamy. Add sugar gradually 
and cream well after each addition; add well beaten egg yolks and 
mix thoroughly. Add molasses, lemon and orange extract and 
beat well. Sift flour (use bread flour), spices and salt together. 
Put nuts and fruit in large bowl, and sift flour and spices over 
them and thoroughly mix. Beat egg whites until stiff but not dry. 
Add floured nuts and fruit alternately with egg whites to creamed 


147 


mixture until all are used. Pour into brown paper lined pans or 
pasteboard boxes, filling at least 34, full. 

Decorate each cake with pieces of candied pineapple, candied 
cherries, citron, and blanched almonds, being careful to lay fruit 
and nuts on gently, so as not to press into batter. Bake in slow 
(250°F.) oven 214 to 3 hours, depending on size of cakes. Im- 
mediately when cake is removed from the oven, pour 2 table- 
spoons glazing syrup over them. 

It is not necessary to cut the nuts and fruit, as cake cuts more 
attractively when these are left whole. This cake will keep in- 
definitely. 

Mrs. 8S. E. Morris, Chowan County 


OLD-FASHIONED WINE FRUIT CAKE 


This recipe was given to me by a friend who came from Chi- 
cago. I had tried many recipes for fruit cake, but this one is the 
most satisfactory one I have found anywhere. It is good, fresh 
or aged. ‘ 


ae 
3 , 
¥ 
f €@ —— 
me 
2 Ka > — 
ai 


14, teaspoon salt 
4 teaspoon allspice 
Y, teaspoon nutmeg 


4 cups seedless raisins 
2 cups diced candied pineapple 


if 
VA 


1 cup thinly sliced citron 
'4 cup thinly sliced candied cherries 
'4 cup sherry wine or any sweet 
wine or plain fruit juice 
144 cups butter or shortening 
144 cups sugar 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 
8 eggs, beaten 


a a 


214 cups sifted flour 


1 cup coarsely chopped pecans 
2 cups coarsely chopped walnuts 


Combine prepared fruits, add wine and let stand several hours 
or overnight. Get pans ready. I use one large tube pan. It takes 
3 medium sized loaf pans. Grease the pans and line each with 
heavy brown paper, letting paper extend 14 inch above the pan. 

Cream shortening, gradually add the sugar mixed with salt 
and spices. (My family does not like spices, so I flavor this cake 
with vanilla.) Cream until light and fluffy. Add beaten eggs and 
beat well. Beat in flour. Last, add nuts and wine-softened fruit, - 
with any wine remaining in bowl. Mix well until well-coated 
with batter. Pour into paper lined pans and bake in a very slow 
oven (250° F.) for 4 to 5 hours or until done when tested with 
a tooth pick. Place a flat pan holding two cups of water on bot- 
tom shelf while cake is baking to keep the cake moist. Makes 
5 pounds of rich, fruity cake. Cool and store in a tight container. 


Mrs. L. M. Wilkins, Forsyth County 


148 


MOLASSES FRUIT CAKE 


This cake was used generations ago when sugar was very 
scarce. 

Soak 3 cups dried apples overnight (Evaporated apples may 
be used but soak only a few hours). Pour off water and chop 
apples, or they may be chopped before soaking. Add to apples 3 
cups molasses, stew till most soft. Watch closely, as this boils 
over very quickly. Cool. Sift together 3 cups flour, 1 teaspoon 
each soda, cinnamon, nutmeg. Add to apple mixture. Add 1 cup 
butter, margarine or other shortening. Mix well. Add 3 whole 
eggs well beaten. Mix all well and bake in a slow oven. Nuts, 
citron or preserves may be added and will make cake much bet- 
ter. If you like a cake with more fruit, or nuts than this calls 
for, the amount may be increased to almost any amount. I often 
double fruit and add 114 cups of nuts. 

Mrs. J. D. Brown, Rutherford County 


SCOTCH FRUIT CAKE 


My great grandmother McLeod who died in 1873 brought this 
recipe from Scotland. 


2 packages of seeded raisins 5 or 6 eggs 
2Y, pounds of mixed candied fruits 3%, teaspoon salt 
and peels 4, teaspoon soda 
2 cups walnut meats 144 teaspoons cinnamon 
24 cups sifted flour Y, teaspoon cloves 
1 cup butter 1 teaspoon nutmeg 
1 cup sugar Y, cup of fruit juice 
'4 eup molasses (or syrup) 1 cup jam or strawberry preserves 


Preparation: Cut fruits and nuts into very small pieces and 
mix in 114 cups of the flour until well coated. 

Cream butter. Add sugar and molasses gradually. Add slightly 
beaten eggs; then add remaining flour sifted with salt, spices 
and soda. Last add floured fruits and nuts, fruit juice and pre- 
serves (or jam). Mix well. Grease and paper line 2 deep 9 inch 
tube pans. Fill pans about 3% full. Bake in a slow oven about 314 
hours. If cakes become too brown on top before they are done 
cover with damp brown paper. When done turn up-side-down 
+41 cool. Then remove from pans. Leave paper on and store. If 
wrapped in several thicknesses of brown paper, these cakes 
may be kept for several weeks in a tightly covered tin box. 

Mrs. John Baker, Hoke County 


149 


100 YEAR-OLD FRUIT CAKE RECIPE 


1 pound butter pound shelled filberts 

1 pound flour 1 pound shelled almonds 

1 pound brown sugar Y, pound candied orange peel 
12 eggs Y, pound candied lemon peel 

1% pounds citron 1 cup orange and lemon juice 

1 pound candied cherries 1 tablespoon cinnamon 

1 pound currants 2 teaspoons nutmeg 

1 pound diced candied pineapple 1 tablespoon cloves 

3 pounds seedless raisins 1 teaspoon soda 


Cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy; add egg yclks, 
beaten until lemon colored. Mix half flour with fruit. Blend re- 
maining dry ingredients in creamed mixture alternately with 
orange juice. Fold beaten egg whites in last, and add diced fruits 
and nuts to the batter. Pour into pans lined with waxed paper, 
greased and floured. 

Ingredients listed will make approximately 12 pounds of fruit 
cake. Bake cake 4 hours at 275° F. 

Mrs. J. S. Tucker, Stanly County 


FRUIT CAKE 
This recipe was copied from a news article 15 years ago. The 
article stated that this recipe came from an elderly homemaker 
from Edenton about 15 years before. It is good to the last crumb. 


1 pound butter 1 pound plain flour 
10 eggs 1 can sliced pineapple 

1 pound dates 1 quart pecans 

1 apple (chopped fine) 1 pound Brazil nuts 

1 pound walnuts Y, pound red candied cherries 

1 pound citron 1 teaspoon cinnamon 

1 pound sugar 1 teaspoon lemon extract 

2 pounds seedless raisins (white 1 teaspoon nutmeg 

raisins make a prettier cake) 1 teaspoon cloves 

4 pound lemon peel 1 package dried figs or 1 quart 
', pound orange peel fig preserves (drain off juice) 


Cream butter and sugar adding one egg at a time. In a large 
pan mix well all dry fruits and nuts and over this pour the one > 
pound of flour into which has been placed the cinnamon, nut- 
meg, and cloves. Be sure not to use more than the pound of 
flour in flouring the nuts and fruits. When fruits and nuts are 
well mixed and floured, add gradually to batter. Now add moist 
fruits as: Figs, pineapple chopped fine (drain juice from pine- 
apple.) Place in pan (with a spout) which has been well greased 
with wax paper in bottom and pack well. 


150 


Decorating Cake 


Use two slices of crystalized pineapple, cut into 2 parts. These 
slices can be placed on top of cake to suit any plan. Use 16 red 
cherries, place one at center of each slice of pineapple, one at 
the back of each slice of pineapple, and one in between each 
slice of pineapple. Now place four halves of pecans around each 
cherry which you placed between each slice of pineapple—this 
makes flowers. Nuts can be used with cherries at the back of 
each slice of pineapple also. 


Cooking In Pressure Cooker 


Place cake on rack (on shortest legs) in cooker in which you 
have placed one inch of water. Two cakes may be cooked at one 
time—one on top of the other. Seal up pressure cooker and let 
pressure rise to 10 pounds. Cook for 30 minutes. Now run pres- 
sure up to 15 pounds and cook for 45 minutes. As soon as time 
is up, lift cooker from stove and let pressure drop to zero. Now 
open cooker and without removing waxed paper from around 
cakes, place in moderately hot oven to dry out for 20 to 30 min- 
utes. (This depends on the stove and good judgment.) 

Caution: Do not place cakes in cooker until you have wrap- 
ped a thick piece of waxed paper around over the top of pan 
and tied securely. Leave the paper on until you have finished 
cooking in pressure cooker and also drying out in stove. 

It is well to mix spices with flour before flouring fruits and 
nuts in order to insure even distribution. 

Mrs. Jacob Crayton, Stanly County 


Aunt Angelica “Jellie’ Stewson’s Recipe For 
CITRON POUND CAKE 


This was my aunt’s recipe and is about 75 years old. She had 
this cake at Christmas and it recalls fond memories of childhood. 

Stir two cups of butter to a cream, then beat in the fol- 
lowing ingredients, each one in succession. 


1 pint powdered sugar 8 eggs (beat eggs well together 


1 quart flour (measured after before adding) 
being sifted) 4 pound of citron cubed and 
sliced thin and floured before 


1 teaspoon salt : 
adding to mixture 


Bake in moderate oven, 325°F. for about one hour and 15 min- 


utes (or until done). 
Julia Maude Conrad, Forsyth County 


15] 


GINGERBREAD 


This recipe has been used in three generations of my family. 
My grandmother had 11 children and she said they all had a 
sweet tooth. She said it seemed in those days it was hard to 
get sugar to keep something sweet for children. One day she 
was looking through some old books and found this ginger- 
bread recipe. That day she cooked one recipe and after that she 
had to double it everytime. 


'4 cup butter '4 teaspoon allspice 
4 cup sugar 4 teaspoon nutmeg 
2 eggs 4 teaspoon cloves 
1 teaspoon soda 4 teaspoon salt 
'’, cup molasses Y, cup water 
1% cups all-purpose flour 1 teaspoon girger 


1 teaspoon cinnamon 


Cream together butter and sugar. Add eggs, beat well. Dis- 
solve soda in molasses. Stir in water. Add molasses-water mix- 
ture to first mixture. Mix well. Combine with dry ingredients, 
pour in 9” pan that has been greased and bake at 350° F. for 
35 minutes. 

Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. Ed Smith, Wayne County 
Mrs. H. G. Blanchard, Pender County 

Mrs. E. F. House, Sampson County 

Mrs. J. M. Kirby, Stokes County 


POUND CAKE 


My grandmother, Lattie Brinkley, was the founder of this 
recipe. Grandmother Brinkley lived during the Civil War and 
also during slavery. Her mother and father died when she was 
a small child and a negro slave woman reared her. The negro 
woman was known as “mammy” to Grandmother Brinkley. The 
Pound Cake was known to all of her children as their wedding 
cake as she always made this particular cake when one married. 


12 eggs 1 pound flour 
1 pound butter 1 nutmeg (grated) 
1 pound sugar 


Beat egg yokes separately, cream butter and sugar. Add beat- 
en egg yokes, flour, nutmeg. Fold in egg whites. Bake in mod- 
erate oven 350°F. 

Mrs. Claude Riddle, Surry County 


152 


POUND CAKE 


This was a recipe much liked and used by my mother, Mrs. 
J. H. Barkley. It was taken from a Jamestown cook book given 
to my mother by her sister, Mrs. J. J. Miller of Norfolk, Vir- 
ginia in 1907. All recipes in book were tried and compiled by 
members of The Ladies’ Aid Society of Freemason St. Baptist 
Church in Norfolk, Virginia, in 1907, the year the Jamestown Ex- 
position was held there. This recipe was sent in for the James- 
town cook book by Mrs. J. J. Taylor of Georgetown, Kentucky. 


10 eggs 4 cups flour 
2 cups butter Small glass of sherry wine 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 


Cream butter and sugar; then add yolks well beaten, and 
gradually the flour. Put in the sherry and the whites, beaten to 
a stiff froth, and baking powder. The more you beat, the less 
baking powder needed. Bake in moderate oven. 

Mrs. Z. L. Dawes, Wilson County 


POUND CAKE 


4 This recipe was handed down from Mrs. Amanda Covington 
’DePriest who obtained it from an old slave woman, Harriet 
Bo otey, a famous cook of Cleveland County. 


a e 

c box 1 pound butter 2 teaspoons lemon juice 

' “ 31% cups sugar 2 teaspoons grated lemon rind 
~ <1 teaspoon salt 4 cups sifted flour 


—> 


10 eggs 


3 | Cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy as \ 
- 3 whipped cream. Sift together flour and salt, add half to creamed : 
' & ixture, beat hard using long strokes to incorporate lots of air. | 
\ Add eggs, one at a time, beating hard after each. Add lemon. 
: ‘uice and rind. Beat. Add remaining flour and beat until Sa Se | ccs 
ss “gmooth and fluffy. Pour in large greased loaf cake pan. Bake in | 
| moderate oven for at least one hour. Remove from pan. When 
-< old store in air-tight container with an apple for added flavor 


= nd moisture. 


a ye ee Oe 


ft lar 


7 od 


1y CYL 


“> 
“a 


i 


i] 


_Emma_G. _DePriest, asa County 


1 
| ot ft ind Cla K2.” ——— Mares Ae 
/ | Jaz WEL \ hay pULMG 


Bt ede. te laye pour 


L egye [ texp. ,Bakiets Powd. 
/ fp. Canned on bre“ “ ae ery ay Ab eI dpi te sr davek 


Pe wR Ce 
Jar Tart 


POUND CAKE 


The recipe for this pound cake was found in Dolly Madison’s 
cook book. She copied it from Martha Washington’s “Rules For 
Cooking.”’ 

One pound of butter, rub soft as cream; have ready a pound 
of flour, pound of sugar. Add 12 eggs well beaten. Put alternately 
into butter and sugar and the froth of eggs, continuing to beat 
well until all ingredients are in and cake is light. Add some 
grated lemon peel, a nutmeg, and a gill (14 cup) of lemon juice. 
Butter the pan and bake. Serve with melted butter, sugar and 
lemon juice as a sauce, or dry with fruit juices. Bake in slow 
oven at 325° F. about 80 minutes. 

Mrs. L. W. Pearson, Wayne County 


POUND CAKE 


This is a favorite recipe of Mrs. J. L. Holmes’ family. It was 
first published many years ago in 1871 in an old Virginia cook 
book. The recipe, which can be traced as far back as 1772, con- 
tinues to be a family favorite. 

Wash the salt from a pound of butter, and rub it till it’s as 
soft as cream - have ready a pound of flour sifted, one of pow- 
dered sugar, and twelve eggs well beaten; put alternately into 
the butter, sugar, flour, and the froth from the eggs - continuing 
to beat them together till all the ingredients are in and the 
cake quite light. Add some grated lemon peel, a nutmeg and a 
gill of wine; butter pans and bake. 

Mrs. J. L. Holmes, Iredell County 


THRIFTY POUND CAKE 


3 cups sifted cake flour 1 cup butter 

14% teaspcons baking powder 1 teaspoon vanilla 
'4 teaspoon mace 3 eggs, beaten 
1, teaspoon salt Y, cup milk 


1¥% cups sugar 


Sift flour, baking powder, mace and salt together 3 times. 
Cream butter with sugar and vanilla until fluffy. Add eggs and 
beat thoroughly. Add sifted dry ingredients and milk alternately 
In small amounts, beating well after each addition. Pour into 
greased tube pan and bake in moderate oven, (350° F.) about 


60 minutes. Mrs. H. L. Seaford, Cabarrus County 


154 


POUND CAKE 


This recipe was given to club members by Miss Alice McQueen, 
Home Demonstration Agent in Forsyth County in 1921-31, and 
has been a favorite in my mother’s house for many years. It’s 
tops in pound cake in my house. 


1 cup butter d eggs, large, 6 if small 
1% cups sugar 2 cups flour 


Cream butter, add sugar and cream until light and fluffy. Add 
eggs one at a time. Blend well. Add flour. Bake 1 hour at 350° F. 
Mrs. Lester Boger, Forsyth County 


POUND CAKE 


This recipe is about 120 years old. It was a favorite of my 
grandmother, Emeline Rountree Parker, for special occasions. 
One such event was for a wedding supper for her son. The cake 
was cooked in an oven in a fireplace. The oven was set outside 
in the sun to warm while the cake was being made. Cake was 
beaten by hand for 1 hour. The batter was placed in the oven 
in the sun to rise. Then the oven was returned to the fireplace, 
covered with coals and the baking finished. Not only were brown 
straws used to test the cake to see if it was done, but 3 or 4 
stiff broom straws were used to beat the egg whites for the the 
icing and for an eggnog served with the cake. 


12 eggs 1 cup milk 
1 pound butter 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 pound sugar 1 tablespoon lemon extract 


1 pound flour . 


Break eggs. Save out egg whites. Beat yolks well, add sugar 
gradually. Melt butter and add milk. Add baking powder and 
flour sifted together. Then add lemon extract and beat thorough- 
ly. Bake in slow oven about 2 hours. (Less beating will be re- 
quired if the egg whites are used in place of the cup of milk, 
especially if they are beaten and folded in after the other ingre- 


dients are well mixed.) 
Mrs. F. C. Willey, Gates County 


Note: The following method of mixing may be used. Cream 
butter. Add sugar gradually. Add well beaten egg yolks, alter- 
nately with flour and baking powder. Add flavoring. Fold in 
beaten egg whites. 


155 


CONGRESS POUND CAKE 


This recipe has been used one hundred years. It has been hand- 
ed down to me and which was originally the recipe of Mrs. Sara 
Jane Shimer of Shimersville, Pa. 


4 eggs Y, cup butter 
2 cups sugar 1 cup milk 
3 cups flour 4 teaspoon bitter almond flavoring 


2 teaspoons baking powder 


Cream butter and add sugar gradually and beat until light. 
Add beaten egg yokes and flavoring. Sift flour and baking pow- 
der together three times and add alternately with milk and the 
first mixture. Add stiffly beaten egg whites. Bake in a greased 
and floured angel cake pan 45 minutes. Moderate oven. 

Mrs. Emily H. Southard, Surry County 


POUND CAKE 


This recipe has been in use since about 1872. Mrs. Polly Page 
Merritt who came from Duplin County used it to make a cake 
each Saturday during her married life. Mrs. Lula Johnson got 
it from her and has used it since 1905. I have been using the 
same recipe since 1933. As far as I can find out there has never 
been a failure. 


34, pound butter 18 ounces flour (9 ounces self- 
1 pound sugar rising, and 9 ounces plain) 
9 eggs (1% pounds in shell) 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Grated rind of one orange 


Cream butter well, add sugar and cream well. Add eggs one 
at a time beating well each time. Add vanilla and grated rind. 
Last add flour, three tablespoons at a time and fold in well. 
Bake in a tube pan for 114 hours or until it shrinks a little from 
the pan. Cook at 325° F. When done, invert pan until cool. 

Mrs. W. I. McLamb, Sampson County 


SOLID CAKE 
14% cups butter 7 eggs 
2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon baking powder 
1 tablespoon milk 3 cups flour 


Cream butter and sugar. Add milk, then eggs and flour (sifted 
with baking powder) alternately. Add first three eggs, one at 
a time and beat by hand for five minutes after each. Add re- 


156 


maining four, two at a time, and beat for three minutes after 
each. Bake in moderate oven until firm. 


Ruth Current, State Home Demonstration Agent 


GINGERBREAD 


This recipe has been handed down in the John R. Hill family 
of Sunbury, N. C. from about 1850. 


Y% cup butter 'Y, teaspoon salt 

34 cup or 14 tablespoons molasses 4 teaspoon soda 

1 egg 1 teaspoon ginger or mixed spices 
2 cups sifted flour 1 cup milk 


Beat whole egg. Stir in molasses, add a little milk. Resift flour 
with other dry ingredients. Add sifted ingredients alternately 
with milk. Beat batter after each addition until blended. Stir 
in butter that has been melted in the baking pan. Bake in 350° F. 
oven for about 45 minutes. Serve warm. 

Mrs. James Robert Hill, Gates County 


WASHINGTON’S HARD GINGERBREAD—1776 


1 cup sugar 1 cup molasses 
1 loosely packed cup lard 1 tablespoon ginger 
1 tablespoon soda dissolved in Pinch salt 


1 cup hot water 


Flour to make soft dough. Roll these a little thick. Mark top 
in fine checks. Cut in desired shape as soon as they come from 
the oven before removing from baking sheet. ‘Delicious”—the 
older these get the better they are. 


Mrs. J. H. Robertson, Stokes County 


SOFT GINGERBREAD 


4 cup shortening 134 cups flour } 

Y, cup sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 egg ', teaspoon cinnamon 
Y, cup molasses 1 teaspoon ginger 
Y, cup sour milk 14 teaspoon salt 


Cream shortening, add sugar and molasses, then egg. Sift dry 
ingredients together. Then alternately add milk and flour. When 
well mixed, pour in pan. Bake in moderate oven. 


Mrs. A. Crouse Jones, Forsyth County 


157 


SOFT GINGER CAKE 


This recipe was used in our home quite often when there was 
plenty of good horne-made molasses to use which made a de- 
licious cake. 

Stir to a cream one cupful of butter and half cupful of brown 
sugar; add to this two cupfuls of cooking molasses, a cupful of 
sweet milk, a tablespoonful of ginger, a teaspoonful of ground 
cinnamon. Beat all thoroughly together. then add three eggs, 
the whites and yolks beaten separately; beat into this two cups 
of sifted flour, then a teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in a spoon- 
ful of water, and last, two more cupfuls of sifted flour. 

Butter and paper two common square bread-pans, divide the 
mixture and pour half into each. Bake in a moderate oven. 

This cake requires long and slow baking, from forty to sixty 
minutes. I find that if sour milk is used the cakes are much 
lighter, but either sweet or sour is most excellent. 


Mrs. J. C. Wells, Cherokee County 


HARD GINGERBREAD 


2 pounds butter 4 teaspoons salaratus (soda) 
2 teaspoons powdered alum 14 teaspoon sal. ammonia (salt) 
2 tablespoons ginger About ten pounds flour 


2 quarts molasses 


Put the flour, sifted twice, in the bread pan; make a hollow 
in the center; cut up the butter and put in; heat the molasses; 
dissolve the alum in one pint of boiling water; also the salaratus 
(soda) in another pint of hot water. 

Let both settle and pour off carefully (leaving the sediment 
at the bottom) into the molasses and pour all quite warm on to 
the butter. Sift on the ginger, ammonia and a teaspoon of salt; 
work and mix it with the hands. Mix it soft, as you can roll it 
easily and nicely three-fourths of an inch thick, and bake on long 
square tins. Make it up without delay and put it in oven im- 
mediately, as anything with soda or salaratus loses its rising 
qualities. Bake in moderate oven, as molasses burns easily. This 
is the old-fashioned gingerbread, such as our grandmothers use 
to make on training days after the Revolutionary War and was 
called ‘Trainers’ Gingerbread.” 

Mrs. C. T. Hamrick, Rutherford County 


158 


GREAT-GRANDMOTHER’S GINGERBREAD 
(100 years old) 


4 cup sugar 4 teaspoon salt 

Y, cup butter or lard mixed 2% cups sifted plain flour 
114 teaspoons soda 1 cup hot water 

1 teaspoon cinnamon 1 cup molasses 

1 teaspoon ginger 1 egg 


Y% teaspoon cloves 


Cream shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Add beaten 
egg, molasses, and dry ingredients which have been sifted to- 
gether, add hot water last, beat until smooth. Bake 350° F. for 
35 minutes. 

Mrs. P. H. Morgan, Forsyth County 


LAFAYETTE GINGERBREAD 


It is reported that when Marquis de LaFayette returned to 
America after the Revolutionary War in the fall of 1784 fol- 
lowing a visit to his old friend, George Washington at Mt. Ver- 
non, he went to Fredericksburg to pay his respects to Mary 
Washington’s mother. He found her in her garden wearing 
short gown, petticoat and cap, raking leaves. 

After an unaffected meeting they went into the house, she 
served him a mint julep with some of her favorite gingerbread. 
Later this recipe was found in her cookbook, the cookbook of 
George Washington’s mother “Mary Washington.” 

Put in a pan 14 cup of butter with 1% cup of excellent brown 
sugar and beat to a cream. Add 1 cup West India Molasses and 
1% cup warm milk, 2 tablespoons powdered ginger. 1 heaping 
teaspoon cinnamon, mace and nutmeg, powdered and mixed, 1 
wine glass wine (coffee may be substituted). Beat 3 eggs until 
very light and thick. 3 cups flour, which sift and stir alternately 
with the beaten eggs into the batter. Last, mix in the juice and 
grated rind of one large orange. Dissolve 1 level teaspoon of soda 
in a little warm water and stir in. Beat until very light. A cup of 
seeded raisins in an addition. Bake in a loaf sheet or patty pans 


in moderate oven. (350° F.) 
Mrs. John E. Williams, Rutherford County 


Recipe also submitted by: 
Carrie Brame, Warren County 


Mrs. Jacques Busbee, Moore County 


159 


GINGERBREAD WAFFLES WITH LEMON SAUCE 


144 cups sifted enriched flour 4 teaspoon salt 
1 teaspoon baking soda 2 eggs, well beaten 
1 teaspoon baking powder 1 cup milk 
1 teaspoon ginger Y, cup sugar 
14 cup molasses 2 tablespoons melted shortening 


Sift flour, baking soda, baking powder, ginger, and salt to- 
gether. Combine eggs, milk, sugar, shortening, and molasses. Add 
dry ingredients. Mix well. Bake in hot waffle iron. Serve with 
hot lemon sauce. 


LEMON SAUCE 


1 cup sugar vitaminized margarine 
8 teaspoons starch 6 tablespoons lemon juice 
2 tablespoons butter or 2 cups boiling water 


Mix sugar and cornstarch. Add lemon juice and blend until 
smooth. Slowly add boiling water, stirring constantly. Stir until 
boiling point is reached. Remove from heat. Add butter or mar- 
garine. 

Inez Henderson, Madison County 


160 





Bathurst Fruit Balls 


This recipe originally came from a Scotch woman and was 
given to a friend of mine in Bathurst, N. B., Canada, while I was 
visting there. These are very easily made and are excellent for a 
sweet for teas, parties, club meetings, etc. They can be made the 
day before they are to be used if they are kept in the refrigerator 
until that time. This amount makes 82 small balls or finger rolls, 
which ever way you like to roll them. 


4 pound butter or margarine, 2 cups confectioners’ sugar added 
creamed well to above and then beat well 

1 whole egg added to above and 4 cup chopped walnuts 
well beaten together Y cup maraschino cherries, chopped 


4 cup dates, chopped 


Stir the fruit into the sugar mixture and place in ice box for 
15 to 20 minutes to make it easier to handle. 

Roll on wax paper 114 cups graham cracker crumbs and drop 
the fruit mixture on the crumbs to coat them well, at the same 
time shaping them. Place on large platter and put in ice box until 


ready to use. Mrs. G. S. Angel, Forsyth County 


SUGAR CAKES OR CRACKERS 


Recipe used by Mrs. John W. Kiker for over 60 years. Her 
children, grandchildren, and great grandchildren think there is 
no cookies quite as good as “Mama Jodie’s cookies.” 


1 cup butter 
1 cup buttermilk 
2 teaspoons soda 


4 eggs 
4 cups sugar 
1 cup shortening 


Cream eggs with sugar, shortening, and butter. Dissolve soda 
in buttermilk and add to first mixture. Add flour to make a 
moderately stiff dough. Add flavoring. Work the dough smooth. 


Roll out and cut. Bake in quick oven. 
Viola Kiker, Anson County 


161 


BROWN SUGAR COOKIES 


This recipe comes from colonial Quaker kitchens of central 
Carolina. It was Mother’s favorite, and a “recipe” she shared with 
many. A number of homemakers in our surrounding territory rely 
on its goodness and dependability when they make cookies. 


1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup white sugar 314 cups flour 

1 cup shortening, butter or lard VY, teaspoon salt 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
2 teaspoons sweet milk Y, teaspoon soda 


Cream sugar and shortening well. Add eggs and cream again. 
Add remaining ingredients. Knead dough well. Roll thin, cut in 
cakes and bake in quick oven. 

Dough may be frozen in rolls about 2 inches in diameter, or cut 
ready to bake. Fruits or nuts may be added in any amount, also 
spices or flavorings. 

The adaptability of the basic dough to any choice of nuts, 
fruits, spices, or extracts added seems exceptional. Furthermore, 
it freezes well either in cooked or uncooked form. 

Mrs. Gilbert English, Randolph County 
Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. J. E. D. Perry, Bertie County 


BUTTER LETTERS 
(Boter Letters) 


This recipe is originally from Holland and it is still the custom 
of the Dutch to make a butter letter such as J for John, etc. for 
every member of the family at Christmas time. Each person has 
his own letter and serves it accoiding to his own wishes. 


Filling 
1 pound blanched almonds ground 3 eggs 
fine Juice of 1 lemon and the grated 
1 pound sugar rind 


Mix together thoroughly and spread between crust made of 4 
pound butter and 14 pound flour. Mix two ingredients together — 
well, roll out on floured board in long narrow strips, 4” x 8” or so, 
place filling on each strip and bring edges of crust together, 
moisten with egg which has been beaten, shape into a letter or 
leave in strips. Bake in 425°F. oven for about 20 minutes or until 
nice and brown. To serve slice crosswise in 1” pieces. Be sure to 
brush roll with beaten egg well before putting into the oven. 

Mrs. John Leeuwenburg, New Hanover County 


162 


BROWNIES 


24 cup sifted all-purpose flour 1 cup sugar 

VY, teaspoon baking powder 2 eggs, well beaten 

4 teaspoon salt Y, cup broken walnut meats 
Y cup butter or other shortening 1 teaspoon vanilla 


2 squares unsweetened chocolate 


Set oven for moderate heat (350°F.). Grease an 8x 8x 2 inch 
pan. Sift flour once, measure, add baking powder and salt, and 
sift again. Melt chocolate and shortening over hot water. Add 
Sugar gradually to eggs, beating thoroughly. Add chocolate mix- 
ture and blend. Add flour and mix well; then mix in nuts and 
vanilla. Spread in greased pan. Bake in pre-heated oven 25 min- 
utes, or until done. Cool in pan, then cut into squares or rec- 
tangles. Makes about 2 dozen brownies. 

Mrs. George Frazier, Granville County 


CHRISTMAS MOLASSES COOKIES 


This recipe has been in my family 26 years. A good Moravian 
of the Conrad family of Old Bethania settlement gave it to my 
sister when she started housekeeping. 


1 cup molasses 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 cup white sugar 2 teaspoons allspice 

24 cup lard or butter, melted but Y, teaspoon ginger 
not hot 114 teaspoons cloves 

1 heaping tablespoon soda in 4 About 6 cups flour 


cup hot water 


Sift together flour and spices. Melt shortening, but do not 
heat, add sugar and molasses to this. Add soda in 14 cup hot 
water. Add flour. Let set overnight. Roll thin and bake in slow 


oven. 
Mrs. Lester Boger, Forsyth County 


COOKIES 


White of 1 egg 1 tablespoon flour 
1 cup light (or dark) brown sugar 1 pinch salt 
1 cup broken pecans 


Beat egg white, add sugar and flour, nuts and salt. Drop with 
teaspoon far apart on greased cookie tin. Cook in slow oven— 
about 250°F.—10 minutes. If you like cookies chewy, cook about 


8 minutes. Take off sheet when partly cool. Makes about 38 dozen. 
Lincoln County 


163 


COOKIES 


l, cup fat 1 teaspoon flavoring 
2, cup white syrup 2 teaspoons baking powder 
6 tablespoons sugar Y, teaspoon salt 
1 egg, beaten Y, cup chopped nuts 
2144 cups sifted flour VY, cup chopped raisins 


Cream the fat and sugar, and add the syrup mixed with the 
beaten egg, and beat well. Add the sifted dry ingredients and 
flavoring. Add the nuts and raisins. Drop by teaspoonfuls on a 
greased baking sheet, allowing room for the cookies to spread. 
Bake to a golden brown in a moderately hot oven (875° to 400°F.) 
Remove from sheet while hot. This recipe makes about 60 cookies. 

Mrs. G. P. Wilkinson, Jr., Granville County 


SOFT MOLASSES COOKIES 


This is another recipe taken from one of the ancient cook 
books. We do not know how old it is, but it has been tried and 
proven. 


Mix together: Sift together: 
1, cup sweet milk 1% cups sifted flour 
1 teaspoon vinegar 1 teaspoon soda 
Add and mix well: Y, teaspoon cinnamon 
'% cup cooking molasses l, teaspoon ginger 


Y, teaspoon salt 


Put into bowl—!, cup soft shortening or meat drippings. Add 
gradually, mixing thoroughly—!4 cup sugar. Beat in vigorously 
1 egg. Add flour mixture alternately with milk mixture, beating 
until smooth after each addition. Begin and end with flour mix- 
ture. Drop by level teaspoons onto greased cookie sheet, leaving 
a 2-inch space between each cookie. Bake 10 minutes or until 
brown. Makes about 214 dozen. 

Mrs. Marshall Kirkpatrick, Haywood County 


CHEWY CAKE SQUARES 


Mix together 1 stick butter (14, pound or 14 cup) and 2 cups 
light brown sugar. Put on slow burner. Let melt to form thick 
syrup. Take off stove and add 2 eggs (whole). Beat until well 
mixed. Add 2 cups self-rising flour. Add 1 cup chopped nuts. Mix 
well. Makes very stiff batter. Spread in 9x 13 inch pan. Bake 15 
to 20 minutes, no longer, in 375°F. oven. 

Mrs. John Winfield, Beaufort County 


164 


CHOCOLATE COOKIES 


2 heaping tablespoons cocoa 1 cup sugar 

2 cups sifted flour % cup butter (melted) 
Y, teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons baking powder 
1 beaten egg 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Sift together flour, salt, baking powder, cocoa, and sugar. Add 
melted butter and egg to dry ingredients and beat lightly until 
smooth. Add vanilla. Turn dough on floured board. Divide into 2 
parts and shape into rolls on wax paper and chill in refrigerator 
until firm. Slice 1g inch thick and place on greased baking sheet. 
Bake immediately in hot oven about 400°F. 

Mrs. F. C. Anthony, Wilkes County 


SWISS CHRISTMAS COOKIES 


1 cup white sugar 4 cups flour 

1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda 

1 cup butter 1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 eggs Y, teaspoon salt 


Cream butter, add sugar and eggs and beat thoroughly. Sift 
and add dry ingredients to first mixture. Roll 144 to 1% inch in 
thickness. Cover with fruit mixture, roll and let stand in refrige- 
rator overnight. Slice and bake. 


Fruit Mixture 


1 pound dates Y, cup sugar 
34, cup water Jam and nuts may be added 


Transylvania County 


AUNT EUNICE’S MOLASSES GINGER COOKIES 
(An old recipe used for years) 

4 tablespoons shortening 3% cups flour 

4 tablespoons sugar 114 teaspoons soda 

4 cup molasses 4 teaspoon salt 

\V, cup milk 1 teaspoon ginger 

Mix liquid ingredients together. Add the flour which has been 

sifted including soda, salt, and ginger. Knead enough so as to roll 
out on floured board. Cut with cookie cutter. Bake in moderate 
oven until done. Too hot an oven burns and ruins molasses cookies 


or cakes. Mrs. Metta H. Byrd, Wilkes County 


165 


GRANDMOTHER’S ICE CREAM COOKIES 


1 cup butter 1% cups flour 
1 cup powdered sugar 1 egg 


Soften but do not melt butter. Sift flour before measuring, then 
sift again and add to softened butter, rubbing well together with 
the hands. Add the sugar, mix well and lastly the egg which has 
been well beaten. Knead well, then set aside to chill. Roll out 
thinly, cut in any desired shapes and bake in oven at 350° to 
375°F. for 5 to 7 minutes. These are lovely for afternoon tea. 

Mrs. J. T. Denning, Johnston County 
Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. E. F. House, Sampson County 


OLD-FASHIONED GINGER CREAM COOKIES 


3 cups sifted flour 1 cup sugar 

1!4 teaspoons soda 1 egg, unbeaten 
1 teaspoon ginger Y, cup molasses 

144 teaspoons cinnamon 1 cup sour milk or buttermilk 
4 cup butter or other shortening Y, teaspoon vanilla 


l, teaspoon salt 


Sift flour once, measure, add soda, salt and spices and sift 
together 3 times. Cream butter thoroughly. Add sugar gradually, 
creaming until light and fluffy. Add egg and beat well; then 
molasses. Add flour alternately with milk—a small amount of 
each at a time—mixing well after each addition. Add vanilla. 
Chill 1 or 2 hours or until firm enough to hold shape. Drop gen- 
erous amount from teaspoon on lightly greased baking sheet, 
placing about 2 inches apart. Bake in hot oven (400°F.) 13 or 15 
minutes. Cool. Spread thinly with icing made by mixing: 


2 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar 2 teaspoons lemon juice 
134 teaspoons grated lemon rind 4 cup cream 


Leave a 14.” border around edge of cookies. 
Mrs. J. H. Kirkpatrick, Haywood County 


GINGER SNAPS 


1 pint molasses 1 tablespoon ginger 
1 cup brown sugar 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 
1 cup butter 1 tablespoon hot water 


Mix ingredients. Add enough flour to make thick mixture. Roll 


very thin, and bake in moderate oven. 
Mrs. John Baker, Hoke County 


166 


GINGER SNAPS 


This recipe was handed down trom my grandmother who would 
be 104 if living now. You can see it is quite old for recipes today 
give detailed information on how to mix, ete. As a child the last 
sentence appealed to me. Whether locked up is an error, I do not 
know. But I do know that it is the only remedy in keeping them 
at our house. 


1 cup butter and lard mixed 2 tablespoons ginger 

1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 cup molasses 1 teaspoon soda 

Y cup water (dissolved in hot water) 


1 tablespoon cinnamon 


Mix ingredients—Add flour enough for stiff dough, roll thin 
and bake quickly. These will keep for weeks, if locked up. 
Mrs. Abner Miller, Wilson County 


LOVE FEAST CAKES 


The Moravian Church has a service of Christian fellowship 
called a Love feast. In the manner of the early Christian Church, 
when members met and ate together in homes, the custom was 
brought from Europe by the Moravians to have this kind of 
meeting. It is not a communion service. 

For the light repast, usually a small cake and a cup of coffee 
are provided. 

The Love feast cakes were some times baked in homes of mem- 
bers. Mostly they have been supplied by a bakery. The bakery 
in Salem, North Carolina, provided these buns for about a cen- 
tury. The recipe that follows is for Salem buns. 


15 cups flour 2 tablespoons salt 
2 cups sugar 14% cups milk, scalded 
1 cup mashed potatoes 2 ounces yeast 
1 cup butter and lard mixed 14 cup warm water 
3 eggs 


Leave out 1 cup flour to work dough. Put remaining flour in 
pan. Scald milk and let cool, dissolve yeast in the warm water. 
Add all ingredients and make a soft dough and work with the 
hands until smooth. Let rise until double in bulk. Work out in 
buns and put buns far enough apart so they will not touch when 
risen double in bulk again. Bake in hot oven from 10 to 15 
minutes or until brown. This recipe makes 3 dozen buns. 

Mrs. Fred Reed, Forsyth County 


167 


LADY FINGERS 


4 tablespoons of powdered sugar 3 tablespoons of flour 
4 eggs A little grated lemon peel 


Stir the sugar and the yolks of the eggs thoroughly together; 
add the flour and the rind of half a lemon, grated fine, being care- 
ful not to grate through into the white, bitter part; lastly, add 
the whites of the eggs, beaten stiff. Bake in lady finger tins, lined 
with buttered paper. Sprinkle with a little powdered sugar, 
daintily, just before putting into the oven, at 325°F. which should 
not be tou hot, for the lady fingers should be of a very delicate 
brown. In the absence of the tins, sheets of white paper may be 
put in a large tin and the dough given the required shape by 
squeezing it through a paper funnel. 

Mrs. Creola B. Holyfield, Surry County 


ALICE McCARROLL COOKIES 


Known as Mrs. Alice McCarroll cookie recipe and has been 
in use at least 50 years. 

3 round cups flour 2 eggs 

3 teaspoons baking powder 24 cup shortening 
1'4 cups sugar 

Sift flour and baking powder together. Beat eggs until light 
and stir sugar and melted shortening in the beaten eggs. Use any 
flavoring desired and enough sweet milk to make a moderately 
soft dough. Mix all ingredients together and roll out on floured 
board. Cut out with any cutter and stick fork holes in dough. 
Bake in hot oven until brown. 

Mrs. E. C. Eller, Ashe County 


LEE’S TEA CAKES 


My father was named for General Robert E. Lee and this tea- 
cake recipe was handed down from General Lee’s family to my 
grandfather Horne’s family. 


1 orange 2 cups sugar 
2 tablespoons orange juice and 1 cup butter or salad oil 
grated orange peel 3 eggs 


Beat all together. Add any amount of flour with 1 teaspoon 
baking powder with each cup to make stiff dough. (As of today 


use self-rising flour) Mrs. W. C. Curlee, Anson County 


168 


MORAVIAN SUGAR COOKIES 


This recipe was brought over when the first Moravians came 
to Salem and for a long time was only used by the family that 
brought it, but 20 years ago, I was given the recipe. 


3 pounds brown sugar Flavoring to suit taste 

14 pounds butter Flour to make a good handling 
3 teaspoons sugar dough GE 

15 eggs eae 


Cream sugar and butter, add egg yolks, beat egg whites to a 
froth. Fold in alternately with flour. Roll and bake in moderate 
oven. Mrs. A. Crouse Jones, Forsyth County 


“FO DE WAR” GINGER COOKIES 


This recipe has been in my family several generations. 


34 cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 
34 cup sugar Y, teaspoon salt 
2 teaspoons ginger 4 cups flour 

1 cup molasses . 1 egg 


Cream shortening until soft. Gradually add sugar and continue 
beating until smooth. Add the egg and beat very light. Sprinkle 
ginger over batter. Add the molasses in which soda has been 
dissolved. Sift flour in bowl, ho'low out the center, pour in the 
liquid and work in flour until dough is a little stiffer than for 
biscuit. Roll to desired thickness, cut with any cookie cutter 
desired, place on greased cookie sheet and bake about 15 minutes 


in moderately hot oven (375°F.). 
Mrs. John K. Sanders, Johnston County 


MORAVIAN COOKIES 
1% cups flour 2 tablespoons water or wine 
2 cups molasses 114 teaspoons baking soda 
3, cup shortening (butter and lard 1 tablespoon buttermilk 


may be mixed or a substitute 1 tablespoon, each, of cinnamon, 
may be used) cloves, allspice and ginger 


1 cup brown sugar (tightly packed) 


Rub shortening, sugar and flour (sifted with spices) together 
well. Add molasses and water or wine. Add soda dissolved in 1 
tablespoon buttermilk and mix well. Work in enough flour to make 
stiff dough (approximately 3 to 4 cups). Chill and roll paper 


thin. Cook in 400°F. oven approximately 5 minutes (or until 


brown). Mrs. N. V. Daniel, Granville County 


169 


MORAVIAN CHRISTMAS COOKIES 


This recipe came from Winkler’s Bakery, an old landmark in 
Salem, and the first bakery in this section, and one of the first 
in North Carolina. 


1 quart molasses spoons boiling water or butter- 
1 pound brown sugar milk 

4 pounds flour 2 tablespoons cloves 

6 ounces pure lard 2 tablespoons ginger 

1 ounce butter 2 tablespoons cinnamon 

1 ounce soda dissolved in 4 table- 2 tablespoons mace 


More spices if desired 


Blend sugar and fat. Add molasses and soda. Sift flour and 
spices together and add to molasses mixture. Make a stiff dough. 
Roll paper thin and bake in a slow oven (275°F. to 300°F.) until 
golden brown. 

Mrs. C. F. Sapp, Forsyth County 


OLD-FASHIONED TEA CAKES 


2 cups flour 1 cup sugar 

2 teaspoons baking powder Y, cup lard (or shortening) 
Y, teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon spice 

1 egg Sweet milk or water 


Mix all ingredients (do not separate egg) with finger tips, add- 
ing just sufficient milk or water to make the dough stiff enough 
to be rolled out. Roll out dough fairly thin, then sprinkle with 
sugar. Cut out and place on cookie sheet. Bake in hot oven 10 
minutes or until brown. 

Mary Ivey, Wayne County 


OATMEAL JUMBLES 


1 cup lard 2 cups flour 
144 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
2 eggs 2 teaspoons baking powder 
6 tablespoons milk 1 cup chopped nuts 
3 cups rolled oats 1 cup chopped raisins 


Cream lard, add sugar. Then add eggs and beat well. Add milk, 
and beat well. Add al! dry ingredients which have been sifted to- 
gether. Last add the oats, nuts and raisins. Drop on greased 
tins and bake in hot oven until brown. 

Mrs. Milton Garland, Mitchell County 


170 


HIFFER CAKES 
(Tangle Britches) 


This is an old recipe handed down from mother to daughter for 
several generations. It is one of original “Moravian Recipes” and 
is always made on “Shrove Tuesday’ in a Moravian Household as 
part of the observance of this day. 


1 cup mashed potatoes 1 teaspoon salt, approximately 
Y, cup white sugar 1 package or cake of yeast 

Y, cup lard Y, cup lukewarm water 

2 eggs 


Mix above ingredients together and add 1 cake of yeast that 
has been dissolved in 14 cup lukewarm water. Then add flour to 
make dough to knead. Set back to rise until double in bulk. Roll 
out on floured board and cut with doughnut cutter or equivalent 
and let rise for several hours again. Fry in deep fat until golden 
brown. Serve with jelly or preserves or roll in pulverized sugar 
as they are taken from fat. 

Mrs. Oscar Doub, Forsyth County 


BUTTERSCOTCH COOKIES 


This recipe has been passed down for several generations. 


2 cups brown sugar 34 teaspoon salt 

34 cup butter 3 cups flour 

2 eggs 2 teaspoons cinnamon 

1 teaspoon soda 1 teaspoon cloves 

1 teaspoon cream tartar 34, cup chopped nuts if desired 


Cream butter, work in sugar gradually. Beat in eggs. Continue 
beating until mixture is fluffy. Sift dry ingredients, add to first 
mixture. Drop pieces about size of hickory nut on cookie sheet, 
and press out with a cloth on bottom of glass dipped in cold 
water. Cook in moderate oven about ten minutes. This makes 


about 138 cookies. 
Mrs. John J. Nicholson, Warren County 


ORANGE FRITTERS 


Make a batter of 1 cup of flour, 2 eggs, 14 teaspoon of salt, and 
sweet milk enough to make it the consistency of cream. Peel 6 
oranges, slice and mix with the batter. Fry in hot fat to a delicate 


_ Div while hot in powdered sugar. : 
ee Mrs. L. L. Harvin, Pender County 


171 


OATMEAL COOKIES 


3%, cup butter (black walnuts preferred) 
2 eggs well beaten. —. 1 cup sugar 
2 cups flour 2 tablespoons cream 
1 cup raisins chopped and floured 2 cups uncooked oatmeal 
1 tablespoon cinnamon 1 teaspoon soda dissolved in 
1 cup nuts chopped and floured _ 2 tablespoons boiling water 


Cream butter and sugar, add eggs, soda water and cream. Add 
flour sifted with cinnamon, oatmeal, raisins and nuts. Drop by 
teaspoonful on greased cookies sheet and bake in moderate oven 
about 15 minutes. 


Mrs. Lennie Chandler, Caswell County 


OATMEAL COOKIES 
This recipe originally belonged to Hattie Conarsy of Arkansas. 


1 cup sugar 2 teaspoons of soda 

1 cup bacon drippings or butter Y, box of seeded raisins 
(bacon drippings are better) 2 cups of uncooked rolled oats 

2 eggs 2 cups of flour 

5 tablespoons of sweet milk Pinch of salt 

1 cup of chopped nuts 1 teaspoon of cinnamon 


Mix drippings and sugar, milk, flour, soda, eggs and raisins. 
Add oatmeal last. Nuts will improve them, but can be omitted. 
When well mixed, drop from spoon on a greased pan, bake very 
slowly 20 minutes. 


Mrs. Jim Griffin, Nash County 


OLD-FASHIONED TEA CAKES 


This was given to me 50 years ago by an old family friend. It 
was always a favorite of my children and now my grandchildren 
always ask for them when they visit me. 


1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda 
2 cups granulated sugar Flavoring to taste, lemon, vanilla 
3 eggs or spices 


cup buttermilk 


Enough flour to make a soft dough that will roll (Rolls better 
after chilling). Mix, roll and cut with cutter and bake in mod- 
erately hot oven. 


Mrs. T. M. Bowman, Forsyth County 
Recipe also submitted by: Dora S. Kiker, Anson County 
Mrs. Paul Page, Columbus County 


172 


PARTY COOKIES 
This recipe was given to Mrs. R. V. Knight of Tarboro by a 
friend who bought it in New York for $25. 
1 cup butter 1 tablespoon vanilla 
3 cups flour 1 cup finely chopped nuts 
6 tablespoons sugar 
Cream butter and sugar. Add the flour, a little at a time. (In 
case you get discouraged, just continue working because it can 
be mixed.) Add vanilla and nuts. Pinch off dough and roll in small 
balls that will make cookies approximately the size of a silver 
dollar. Put thumb print in middle and fill with any tart jelly. 
On top of this, add a half pecan. Line bottom of pan or cookie 
sheet with 2 or 8 layers of brown paper. Cook in slow oven of 
300°F. for 25 to 30 minutes. Roll in powdered sugar. 
Mrs. Hugh B. Bryan, Edgecombe County 


PENELOPE BARKER TEA CAKES 

On October 25, 1774, fifty-one ladies of Edenton met at the 
home of Mrs. Elizabeth King and drew up resolutions declaring 
that they would drink no more tea nor ‘‘promote ye wear of any 
manufacture from England” until the odious tax should be re- 
pealed. This is said to be the first instance in America of any 
concerted action by women on a political issue. 

Mrs. Penelope Barker, a lady uf rare spirit and courage, pre- 
sided over this tea party and the recipe below is a copy of her 
recipe for Tea Cakes. The recipe has been preserved through the 
decades by descendants of the Colonial women who protested 
England’s heavy taxation of imports to the new colonies. They 
made up a batch of these tea cookies and brewed some tea, not 
English tea—but tea from the Youpon and the Sassafras bushes 
from the coastal area. They then celebrated their tea party. 


1 quart flour in a tablespoon of warm water 


34 cup butter or half butter and (not hot) 
half lard mixed 4, teaspoon salt 
2 large cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon vanilla or use any 


3 eggs other desired flavoring— 

1 rounded teaspoon soda dissolved nutmeg, cinnamon, etc. 

Cream butter, sugar and eggs together well, stir in soda dis- 
solved in water; then quickly add enough of the flour to make 
dough as soft as possible to cut. Roll out thin cut into shapes and 


bake at once in a hot oven. 
Mrs. E. N. Elliott, Chowan County 


Recipe also submitted by: Mrs. L. W. Pearson, Wayne County 


173 


TEA CAKES 


This recipe was used by my grandmother who would have 
been ninety years old and my great aunt who would have been a 
hundred. We still like the recipe. 


1 cup sugar Y, cup buttermilk 

3 cups flour or enough flour for 2 teaspoons baking powder 
stiff dough Y, teaspoon salt 

1 egg , teaspoon soda 

1 cup lard 1 teaspoon vanilla or cinnamon 


Work in a stiff dough and roll vaper thin. Cut and bake. 
Mrs. Earlie Jessup, Surry County 


SWEET POTATO DOUGHNUTS 


3 tablespoons shortening 23%, cups flour 

344 cup sugar 4 teaspoons baking flour 
3 eggs 1 teaspoon salt 

1 packed cup of mashed potatoes Y% teaspoon nutmeg 


Cream shortening and add sugar gradually. Blend in well 
beaten eggs and mashed potatoes. Sift flour, baking powder, salt 
and nutmeg together. Add to creamed mixture alternating with 
milk. Roll out and cut the same as plain doughnuts and fry in 
deep hot fat. 

Mrs. Clifton Stephens, Columbus County 


UNCLE SAM’S DOUGHNUTS 


This is a small quantity recipe based on one used by Army 
cooks. 


4 cups sifted flour 2 tablespoons shortening 

4 teaspoon nutmeg 34 cup sugar 

, teaspoon cinnamon 2 eggs 

1 teaspoon salt 1 cup thick sour milk or butter- 
34 teaspoon baking soda milk 


', teaspoon cream of tartar 


Cream shortening and sugar, add eggs and beat until light and 
fluffy. Add milk and then sifted dry ingredients. Mix thoroughly 
until smooth. With as little handling as possible, roll dough on 
floured board 14 inch thick. Let stand 20 minutes. Cut with 214 
inch doughnut cutter. Fry in deep hot fat (870°F.) until brown 
turning when first crack appears. Drain on absorbent paper. 

| Mrs. J. L. Jordan, Wilkes County 


174 





BLACK AND WHITE FUDGE 


Black Part 
3 cups Sugar 14 cups cream 
4 tablespoons cocoa 1 tablespoon vanilla 
144 cups white corn syrup 2 tablespoons butter 


Combine sugar, syrup, cocoa and cream. Boil to soft ball stage 
(234°-238°F.) Cool to room temverature. Add butter and vanilla. 
Beat until creamy. Pour into well buttered pan. 


White Part 
3 cups Sugar 11% cups white corn syrup 
14% cups cream 1 tablespoon vanilla 


2 tablespoons butter 


Combine and cook as for black part. When cool, beat until 
creamy, then pour over black part. Nuts may be added if de- 
sired. The two portions will not run together but will cut out 


together. Cut in small squares. 
Mrs. Albert Medlin, Jr., Union County 


CHOCOLATE CARAMELS 


My grandmother used the following recipes when she first 


started to cook: | 

4 cup of butter 

4, pound of grated chocolate 
2 tablespoonfuls of flour 


2 cups of brown sugar 

1 cup molasses 

1 cup of cream or milk 

Boil the molasses, butter, sugar and flour for fifteen minutes; 
stir the chocolate into the cream and pour in the boiling syrup 
and boil till done; drop a little in cold water; if it piles up and 
hardens, then it is done. Before pouring it out on buttered pans 
or plates, add a teaspoonful of vanilla, and as it cools crease it in 


ll squares. Pires 
oH ! Achaia Mrs. C. B. Jones, Ashe County 


175- 


COCONUT BAR CANDY 


144 cups sugar Y, teaspoon vanilla 
Y, cup sweet milk , to 1 cup shredded coconut 
2 tablespoons butter 
Pour milk over the sugar. Add butter and boil 12 minutes. Stir 
constantly. Remove from fire; cool a little; add vanilla and coco- 
nut. Beat rapidly until creamy and pour into buttered pan. Cut 
in bars when cold. 
This candy is adapted to sending as a gift by mail. 
Mrs. David Graham, Harnett County 


CHOCOLATE CREAM FUDGE 


2 cups sugar 1 tablespoon butter 
l, teaspoon cream of tartar 1 teaspoon vanilla 

1 cup sweet milk Few grains salt 

2 squares chocolate Nuts, if desired 


Mix sugar, milk, and chocolate, and put on to cook. Stir until it 
begins to boil and enough to keep from sticking until it is done. 
When it has boiled several minutes, add cream of tartar. Keep 
crystals scraped down from the sides while cooking. Cook until 
it forms a firm ball that you can roll between the fingers when a 
few drops are tested in cold water. Add vanilla, butter, and salt. 
Let cool without stirring or jarring. When cold, stir or beat until 
it loses its shiny appearance. Pour upon buttered dough board, 
and knead until it is soft and pliable again. Mold into shapes and 


garnish with nuts. Gladys Morris, Camden County 


7 MARTHA WASHINGTON CANDY 


-—This was given to the first 4-H club class at Lewisville School 
in 1921 by Miss Alice McQueen, Home Demonstration Agent. I 
have sent this to friends all over the world and boys in service 
said it always. came through in perfect condition. 


Y% to 4% pound butter 4 teaspoon vanilla flavoring 
2 tablespoons cream Few drops coloring, if color is 
1 pound pulverized sugar desired 


Soften butter. Sift sugar. Blend butter and sugar into a dough. 
Add flavoring and coloring. Make into small balls and dip into 
melted chocolate, to which has been added a little paraffin. 

This recipe may also be used for Mints. 

Julia Maude Conrad, Forsyth County 


176 


CHOCOLATE FUDGE 


2 cups sugar 1 teaspoon butter 
1 cup evaporated milk 1 teaspoon vanilla 
3 tablespoons cocoa 


Add sugar, milk, and cocoa and cook over low heat, stirring 
from sides of boiler often. When mixture forms soft ball in water, 
remove from heat. Add butter, vanilla and cool. Beat with rotary 
beater until mixture begins to thicken. Pour on greased platter. 
Nuts may be added. 

Mrs. Faye Hamilton, Pender County 


FRESH COCONUT CANDY 


3 cups fresh grated coconut 3 cups sugar 
(1 medium coconut) Milk from coconut 


Place sugar in sauce pan. Add enough coconut milk to dissolve 
sugar. Boil to the hard crack stage or 264° on candy thermometer. 
Remove from fire. Add fresh grated coconut and beat until mix- 
ture begins to cream. Pour into well greased dish. When cool cut 


a eduares, Mrs. G. P. Wilkinson, Jr., Granville County 


CREAMY FUDGE 


“This is a fudge recipe that I have never seen in print but has 
been in the family so long that it seems common to me,” writes 
Mrs. Conrad House. Madison, Wisconsin, “I don’t know where it 
came from but in the long winter evenings on the farm we used 
it almost every night and have never had a failure with it. It is 
fool proof and I don’t think I have ever tasted fudge quite so 
creamy as when it is made this way: 

“Melt a piece of butter (size of a small egg or smaller) with 
two squares of chocolate. When melted well, add one scant cup 
of rich milk (over 34 cup). Let this cook until rather thick so 
that it is nice and smooth and looks like pudding—almost. Then 
add two cups of white sugar. Stir well but don’t stir after it starts 
to boil. (medium heat.) Cook until it forms a soft ball in cold 
water. Let cool to lukewarm and then beat. When almost finished 
beating, add nuts and pour on buttered plate. It will never fail 


and is it creamy!’’ 
If two squares of chocolate are not available, use five table- 


spoons of cocoa. Mrs. Troy Barnes, Wilson County 


177 


CREOLE PECAN PRALINES 


This is the Southern mammie’s answer to the French, in New 
Orleans, during Napoleon’s time, to their love of sweets when 
asked for a recipe: “Honey I never wrote em down but jes ree- 
membered em by heart”. To this day you can see them peddle 
their Pralines on the streets of New Orleans and return home to 
make another batch. : 

3 cups light brown sugar 1 cup cream 


14 cup butter 1, teaspoon cinnamon 
1% cups pecan halves 


Mix sugar, butter and cream. Stir gently and cook until a small 
amount dropped in cold water forms a soft ball. Add the pecan 
halves and cinnamon. Beat until almost cold, then drop by spoon- 
fulls onto slightly greased marble slab. 

Mrs. Hazel J. Bell, Cabarrus County 


PEANUT CANDY ROLL 


2 egg whites Peanut butter 

1 box confectioners’ sugar 

Beat egg whites until stiff. Sift sugar and mix almost whole 
box with egg whites, add 14 teaspoon vanilla. When mixture is 
too stiff to stir with spoon, roll like dough with hands. Sprinkle 
more sugar on a board and roll dough out 14, inch thick. Spread 
peanut butter over the dough, begin at one side and roll into a 
long roll. Let candy set for a few minutes and then slice in 14 
inch slices. Lay out on wax paper. 

Mrs. Zola Roberts, Harnett County 


“PHILLY” FUDGE 


6 level tablespoons of cream cheese 1 teaspoon vanilla 

2 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar Dash of salt 

2 one-ounce squares melted un- VY, cup chopped pecans 

sweetened chocolate 

Place cheese in bowl and cream it until soft. Blend in sugar | 
slowly. Add melted chocolate. Mix well. Add vanilla, salt, and 
pecans. Mix until well blended. Press into well greased pan. Place 
in refrigerator until firm (about 15 minutes). Cut into squares. 
For softer fudge, blend 1 teaspoon cream. 

Maple, almond, coconut, or peanut butter may be used in place 


hn eCeO MIATA LENO Mrs. Mary Lanning, Jackson County 


178 


FOOLPROOF FUDGE | 


4 pound marshmallows or 1 6 ounce can evaporated milk 
(10 ounces) 4 teaspoon salt 
14 cup water Y, package of (3 ounce) semi-sweet 
2'4 cups granulated sugar chocolate bits (34 cup) 


Y, pound butter or margarine (14 cup) 


In top of double boiler, combine marshmallows and water; cook 
over boiling water until marshmallows are melted, stirring oc- 
casionally. Meanwhile in a heavy saucepan, combine sugar, but- 
ter or margarine, milk and salt, mix thoroughly. Bring to a rolling 
boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Continue boiling for 
8 minutes, stirring constantly to prevent mixture from sticking 
to bottom of pan. Remove from heat and stir in melted marsh- 
mallows and chocolate bits. Mix until thoroughly blended and the 
chocolate bits are melted. Pour into buttered 8 x 12 inch pan. 
Cook thoroughly and cut into squares. Makes about 214 pounds. 


Variations 


(1) Top each piece of fudge with an English walnut half. (2) 
Add 1 cup chopped nut meats to fudge before pouring into pan 
to cool. (3) Add 1 cup shredded coconut to fudge before pouring 
into pan to cool. Union County 


CHOCOLATE MARSHMALLOW CANDY 


2 ounces chocolate 1 cup condensed milk 
2 packages chocolates bits ¥% cup nuts 
8 ounces marshmallows 


Melt chocolate and chocolate bits in top of double boiler. Stir 
in condensed milk. Have marshmallows cut in quarters. Add them 


to mixture. Add nuts. Drop on waxed paper. 
Mrs. Floyd Matthews, Perquimans County 


SEA FOAM CANDY 


1 egg white 


2 cups brown sugar 
: 4 cup chopped nuts 


Y, cup water 
1 teaspoon vanilla 
Boil sugar and water till a little dropped in a cup of water will 
form a soft ball. Pour hot mixture over stiffly beaten ese whites, 
beating while adding. Add nuts and flavoring and beat till candy 
stiffens. When nearly set, drop by spoonfuls on waxed paper. 
Mrs. Boyce Helms, Union County 


179 


PEANUT SOUR CREAM CANDY 


2 cups sugar Y, teaspoon vanilla 
ey teaspoon salt 3 drops almond extract 
1 cup sour cream 1 cup peanuts 


Few grains cinnamon 


Mix sugar, salt and cream and boil gently, without stirring, to 
firm-ball stage (245°F.) Cool to lukewarm, add flavoring and beat 
until creamy. Fold in peanuts, and pour into buttered shallow 
pan. When cool, cut into squares. Yield: 48 squares. 

Mrs. Henry W. Maddrey, Northampton County 


SPANISH SWEETS 


14 pound candied cherries 14 pound seeded raisins 
1% pound figs 14 pound stoned dates 
‘4 pound almonds 4 pound walnuts 


14 pound hickory or pecan nuts 


Mix all together and zrind fine or chop. Sprinkle board with 
powdered sugar. Toss on the mixture. Knead well. Cut into small 
squares. This will keep several days packed in layers of waxed 
paper. Mrs. Lydia Hodge, Stokes County 


SPICED NUTS 


1 quart of shelled nuts 1 teaspoon salt 
1 cup sugar 1 teaspoon cinnamon 
1 cup water 1 teaspoon vanilla 


Mix sugar, water, salt, cinnamon and vanilla in a large thick 
frying pan. Bring to a boil and simmer until mixture spins a 
thread. Pour in the nuts and stir until all are well coated. Pour 
on wax paper to cool. 

Mrs. George Highsmith, Jr., Pender County 


SNOW BALLS 
Y, cup butter 1 cup finely ground pecans 
2 tablespoons sugar 1 cup sifted flour 
1 teaspoon vanilla Dash of salt 


Cream together the butter ard sugar. Add other ingredients. 
Shape dough in balls like marbles Cook on ungreased cookie sheet 
at 325°F. for 30 minutes. Roll in confectioners’ sugar while hot. 
Then again when cooled. 

Mrs. Gaither Matthews, Lee County 


189 


ICKL , presecses 


[pee 
cat YELLS CS. 


ARTICHOKE PICKLE 






1 peck artichokes 5 teaspoons turmeric 
6 cups brown sugar 1 teaspoon red pepper 
1 gallon vinegar 1 teaspoon salt 

4 pound dry mustard 1 tablespoon allspice 
Y% pound white mustard seed 1 tablespoon cloves 


Bring all of this to a boil and pour over artichokes in jars. 
First, soak artichokes in brine—1 cup salt, 2 gallons cold water 
for 2 days, then wash in clear water. Good to eat after 10 days. 

Mrs. Stover Dunagan, Rutherford County 


ARTICHOKE RELISH 


4 peck of artichokes 4 teaspoon red pepper 
4 onions 2 tablespoons white mustard seed 
214 cups of sugar or less, if you like 2 tablespoons celery seed 
3 pints of vinegar 4 tablespoons salt 


1 tablespoon turmeric 


Scrape and grind the artichokes coarsely. Mix and simmer for 


14 hour. Put in jars and seal. 
Doris Sweaney, Durham County 


CRANBERRY COMPOTE 


thin and cut in small pieces) 


Combine: 
1 pound cranberries 2 cups sugar 
2 oranges and 1 lemon (sliced 14 cup water 


Boil all ingredients together five minutes or until the cran- 
berries burst. Let stand (the longer the better) and serve cold 


as accompaniment to meat course. 
To add variety: add a cup of diced pineapple or 14 cup canned 


cherries before cooking the mixture 
Verna Stanton, Assistant State Home Demonstration Agent 


181 


if 


Fi 
j 
; 


CHILI 
14% pound ground beef 4 teaspoon black pepper 
Y, cup vegetable oil 1 large onion, diced 
2 teaspoons salt 4 cups canned tomatoes 


2 teaspoons paprika 


Heat vegetable oil in a heavy skillet or cooker. Add the ground 
beef and allow to brown slightly, stirring at frequent inter- 
vals. Add the remaining ingredients, stir well and cook on me- 
dium to low heat for about an hour or to desired consistency. 

Desirable as sauce for frankfurters. Also delicious over spa- 
ghetti which has been boiled and drained, sprinkle top with 
grated cheese. 

Mrs. A. H. Pridgen, Jr., Pender County 


CHILI SAUCE 


This recipe belonged to my grandmother, Mrs. Sallie Camp- 
bell Cunningham and is well over 100 years old. Mrs. Cunning- 
ham taught in the schools in Macon County just after the Civil 
War. She told how the children had no books and that they 
used the Bible or any other available book to learn to read. Mrs. 
Cunningham was an educator as well as a homemaker during 
her long life. 


18 ripe tomatoes, cut fine 1 green pepper, cut fine 
1 onion, cut fine 1 tablespoon salt 
1 cup sugar 2 cups good vinegar 


2 tablespoons mixed spices 


Mix and cook for 40 minutes. Pour in hot jars and seal at once. 
Mrs. J. R. Ray, Macon County 


GREEN TOMATO SWEET PICKLE 


1 gallon green tomatoes sliced Remove from water and acd 


4 inch thick. Let stand 24 5 pounds sugar 102 

hours in 2 gallons of lime 3 pints vinegar aad § 

water (3 teacups lime to 2 ', teaspoon each of 

gallons water). Remove and cloves, mace, cinnamon bark and 

soak in clear water 4 hours, | allspice pe Pet ot 

changing water every. hour. 3" Te: > 2 OS 6s diet eee 
Ve, ng tit 


Bring to boiljand let tana 24 nome ra 1 hour again and 
seal in hot sterilized jars 
Angie Conrad Stonestreet, Forsyth County — 
: ote wes an (I MANY 
Stl 3b" NW} 


ee 182 - ' - i ah : - r 9 — 
a Niet at Mot Peer oe 


MRS. CLARKE’S PEACH CHUTNEY 


Recipe brought to Wake County by wife of an English Army 
officer who lived in India. Easy to make and particularly good 
with meats or chicken. It sounds curious but I vouch for its 
goodness when served with meats, etc. May use anywhere peach 
pickle would be used. 


4 pounds sliced soft peaches 2 cups vinegar 

1 tablespoon white mustard seed \Y% pound raisins 

Y, teaspoon salt (a spice bag, Crushed ginger root 
cinnamon, cloves, etc.) 3 medium onions chopped 


Cook all together until smooth and add two pounds of brown 4 
sugar. Cook until thick and put in glasses. Cover with paraffin ~ 
or seal in small containers. . 


Mrs. Maude P. McInnes, Wake County ~~ 


a oe 


bod 


v? 


COUSIN FANNY NELSON’S CUCUMBER PICKLE =~ _— 


Who Cousin Fanny Nelson was I have no idea but when (Peay ° 
came to Raleigh 25 years ago, I was told that all good Raleigh 5 


Ak 1. 
f , £3 $5 
LOK 


Pa | 


{ 


housewives made Cousin Fanny Nelson’s pickle. Certainly I 3< 


had to look for brined cucumbers every fall for Mrs. Palmer > 
Jerman and Dr. Delia Dixon Carroll (sister of Thomas Dixon, 


the novelist). The recipe which follows was given me by Dr. Car- & 
roll. She made as much as 15 gallons of it every year and it was a) 
one of the features of the bufiei meals served at her log cabin. Sy | 
2 quarts onions LY; ounces whole cloves Tey <= 

4 green peppers 1% ounces whole black pepper es 

8 red peppers 2 ounces white mustard seed ie 

2 ounces turmeric 2 ounces celery seed .) 
114 ounces whole mace 2 ounces ground mustard a. 
eS 


Chop onions and pepper. Bring vinegar to a boil, add sugar 
and spices tied in a bag, add onion and pepper and sliced cucum- 
bers, when hot through put in jars. 

Mrs. Maude P. McInnes, Wake County 


LAZY WOMAN’S PICKLE 


This recipe has not always been a lazy woman’s. It was 
brought to Caswell by Mrs. Herbert Landram, a busy Methodist 


183 











Preacher’s wife—a Virginian, who obtained the recipe from a 


Virginia Home Demonstration Agent. 


Put whole cucumbers in half gallon jar, fill with vinegar, add 


two tablespoons of salt. Let set at least six weeks. (Can be left 
as long as a year.) Take cucumbers out of jar—slice into thin 
serving sized pieces. Pack a layer of cucumber and a layer of 


sugar until two pounds of sugar is used for the above amount 
of cucumber. Add 2 tablespoons each of whole cloves and all- 
spice, and a stick of cinnamon. 

Mrs. Taylor Long, Caswell County 


EVIE TAYLOE’S PEPPER RELISH 


This is a recipe from the kitchen of Mrs. W. 8S. Tayloe of 
Powellsville, N. C., Bertie County. It was used by her mother, 
Marie E. Jenkins, Hertford County and passed on to the four 
generations and is still in use. This was one of the relishes we 
are still unable to buy on the markets and is very inexpensive 
to make and time to prepare is so little that everyone should 
makes lots of this relish to use with the good old Southern col- 
lards and greens. 

12 red bell peppers 2 cups sugar 
12 green bell peppers 
6 medium size onions 


2 tablespoons salt Prat fe ae 

Wash and seed peppers and grind together with the onions. 
Seald and let set for five minutes, then scald the second time 
and drain. Add sugar, vinegar, salt and cook for about fifteen 


minutes to thicken. Pour in sterilized jars and seal. 
Mrs. Howard R. Taylor, Hertford County 


PICKLED BEANS 
(The old-fashioned way) 


Cook beans (green beans) until the inside of the bean will 


3 cups vinegar iy tut vA) Msg 


A 3 


= 
BE, | 


mash between fingers. Cool and place in stone jar with one pint | 


of salt to 5 gallons cf beans. (Variation: May use one-third or 
even one-half corn which makes a delicious dish.) If part corn 
is used, boil corn until done and cut off cob. Mix with beans. 
Weight down in a stone jar or a glass jar can be used. Use 
enough water where beans were cooked to cover the beans in 
jar. On the 9th day take mixture out and place in clean jars, seal. 
Mrs. C. M. Brown, Jr., Wilkes County 


184 


L/(_A 


~HS, 
tO 


} 
yt 
Oat 
r 2: 


PUMPKIN PRESERVES 


This recipe was one my grandmother used and handed down 


to my mother and on to me. 
7 pounds pumpkin 2 lemons 
3 pounds sugar 


Cut pumpkin in squares, put sugar and lemons in and let 
stand over night so the pumpkin won’t cook up. Cook until 
clear. Seal in jars. 

Mrs. Wesley Goodman, Ashe County 


SWEET PICKLE PEACHES 
9 pounds peaches 4 pounds sugar 
1 quart vinegar (apple) 4 sticks cinnamon (broken) 
1 tablespoon allspice and cloves 


Make a syrup of spices and vinegar. Let come to a good boil, 
pour over the peaches which have been put in stone jars. Re- 
peat 8 mornings. 9th morning put peaches in glass jars, pour 


over hot syrup and seal. 
Mrs. A. Crouse Jones, Forsyth County 


APPLE CHUTNEY 


2 quarts apples cut in small pieces 4 cup strong vinegar 
2 pounds sugar i, teaspoon ground cloves 
2 cups seeded raisins 1 cup black walnuts, chopped, not 


Rind of two oranges, finely too fine 
chopped 
Boil all ingredients together until apples and nuts are tender. 
Seal in sterile jars. Pecans may be substituted for walnuts. 


(Not as good.) 
Mrs. Jacques Busbee, Moore County 


PEAR RELISH 


1 large ean crushed pineapple 
34 cup sugar to each cup of mixture 
1 small bottle cherries 


G 4 quarts sliced pears 

) 3 oranges and 1 lemon ground in 

; food chopper 

: d cook about 2 hours. Put in 

om heat. Fills 8 pint jars. 
Robeson County Council 


/ Mix ingredients together an 
\ cherries just before removing fr 


185 


SPICED GRAPES FOR SPECIAL DINNERS 


This recipe came to me through my husband’s mother Ida 
Majette Browne, who was born in 1854. I am under the im- 
pression she told me it was made and served by her mother, 
Anne Deans Majette, and could be made of any kind of grapes, 
especially the big wild muscadine variety. I have used it and so 
has one of our daughters. I hope to help a granddaughter, ano- 
ther Anne Browne, make it on her sixth birthday so that five 
generations can clairn an interest in the recipe. 


11 pounds large James grapes,/ 1 quart of vinegar 
pulped. Heat the pulp and run 6 pounds sugar 
through a colander to sepa- 2 tablespoons cinnamon 
rate the seed. Put hulls and 1 tablespoon allspice 
seeded pulp in a kettle with 1 tablespoon cloves 


Mix and cook 114 hours. Stir often to prevent burning after 
mixture begins to thicken. Seal in jars until ready to serve with 
baked ham, roast lamb, turkey or chicken. 


Mrs. T. E. Browne, Hertford County 


WATERMELON RIND SWERT PICKLE 


This recipe was handed down by word of mouth in my family 
from mother to daughter since the first melons were grown on 
on this farm, which was a land grant from the King of England. 


8 pounds watermelon rind 1 tablespoon each of (whole spices 
2 quarts vinegar tied in a bag) 
1 quart water Cinnamon 
6 pounds sugar Ginger 
Cloves 


Prepare the rind by peeling off all green skin and trimming 
away all red meat from inside of the rind. Soak overnight in 
lime water, 1 bottle slack lime to one gallon water. Next morn- 
ing wash rind through several waters, then bring to boiling 
point in one gallon water, in which 14 teaspoon alum has been 
dissolved. Remove immediately the boiling point is reached and. 
plunge into cold water. Change water, let stand 1 hour. Then 
bring to boil and let boil 14 hour in clear water. Then plunge into 
cold water again. Drain and boil in the syrup until plump and 
tender and rattles as if you were stirring dry corn. 


Mrs. A. Crouse Jones, Forsyth County 


186 


WATERMELON RIND PICKLE 


3 quarts prepared watermelon rind 4 cups sugar 


14% tablespoons of powdered 2 cups vinegar 
lime (can be obtained at a 2 to 3 inch stick cinnamon 
drug store) or 1 cup of slack 1 tablespoon of whole cloves 


lime to a gallon of water 


Select a firm ripe melon. Remove green skin and pink flesh 
from rind, cut rind into 1 inch pieces. Add lime, cover with 
water and soak overnight. Drain; rinse three times in cold 
water. Boil in water until tender, about 45 minutes. Add green 
coloring if desired. Drain. Mix remaining ingredients and heat 
to boiling point. Add watermelon rind. Boil until rind is trans- 
parent. Pack into hot sterilized jars with the syrup. Makes 3 pints. 


Mrs. Mason Crews, Person County 


187 








ty i, 


i pai Rs soa 


oe “st 









: Ss 
aad An’ 
rod & phys wr 

vi ta 
1 ¥ 4 “A ; " ; 
j ; ~ ‘ 
f Pe ‘ ; So's ere re 
| OSE RIA lsh MEER 
: 4 r ‘ 
he i e My 
oF 1 v1 Peer a pars eat 
ie i Pe W's 3 f 4 
rye 7 4 
ANY fp i s iy | a is , 
€ lee f * 4 F a 
} : iii “o »? Loa 
j rT Tint 
i ‘ t * 4 
F 
AY ' Wis , Le eich aot 
Y tebe f bate Foo Sane 
. ” ) yt ay iS fue a a ee 
a f : a 
x 1 
\ ‘ ’ 
my a ‘y - 
an a iead S fat ‘ 
mys : i 
gaa 
Rivivo iiyt 1 \ 
iy F ‘ 
é y NJ) + y 
) ain tee ': } 
‘ ; 
2 j 
ny ft a 
i oh ri 1 
; t ~, 
- v 
r b. Bay ] ‘4 
‘ 
‘ 
f 
if 4 ‘ ; Ded 
} tal i 
é i a 
i 
; if ; ‘ 
- f 
f and . 
yee : \ i 
if j i) ; = 
] j ye 
i) al we, Ati 
' Pier ok 
AS | : k ; i 
aw ia! , ‘ - \ 
fey’ ’ » ’ 
"tin 
raha i eid 
sale f - hi . 4 
val Ue 4 { , f 
1 4 ; 
‘ i 4 é pry | Nw 
1 d a) 
un) 9 re 1 1 | 4 
71> ie 7 bre ay a 
Oe Ue 75 Rat . | 
: . ’ 
tak ( 
‘ \ ; 
] ; Jui : R . 
4 i As 
; a $hcd 
yey : Nee al : Apt aes 
a a d 
‘ 4 
_ (is \ 
Mp i ~ el / i j i) ‘ 
a : \ yon ¥ 
‘ ai } 
whe i 
ni ‘ 
{ ' 
\ i *) fi 
Sat INT ‘og F i ? 
hei : hr 
bis RTE ee une ik AOE ok 
Dor ee ; } # . 4: my 
/ # f ' 
, : £45 bares | / 
at 
3 Ore , re ‘ . 
¥ ae Ma wis Dt me) Pe wie Pet l 
Me i | wee " ie [ry i f 
f 1 wa i r 





t aieg 





SOUPS 


POUUQUUUREDEEQQUUDCQUUTEOEUOEURERRQUUCUGEUGUEEQEDGREGERGERGDEGHEQGHQGRDEOGUDRGENGUTGERGESQUTSERGORORREDD) 


BEEF SOUP 
2 quarts tomato juice 1 small onion 
1 quart canned beef Salt and pepper to taste 


1 package spaghetti 


Bring tomato juice to boiling point, add finely chopped onion, 
when boiling briskly add spaghetti, beef and cook until done. 
Serve with saltines or any good crackers. 


Mrs. Clarence Holder, Harnett County 


CHEESE POTATO SOUP 


Heat 2 quarts of whcle milk over slow heat. Add 4 cups of 
grated potatoes and 2 medium onions, sliced. Cook very slowly 
for about 40 minutes, stirring frequently to prevent scorching. 
Then add 3 teaspoons salt, 1 teaspoon paprika, 14 cup grated 
cheese. Mix well. Serve the soup immediately, garnish with 
chopped parsley if desired. Makes 214 to 3 quarts. 

Mrs. Dewitt Lee, Union County 


LA SOUPPA 
1 loaf French bread—toasted 2 to 4 tablespoons butter 
(or bread sticks) Parmesan cheese 
1 to 2 quarts of bouillon or broth Dash cinnamon and nutmeg 


Butter thinly sliced French bread. Heat broth. Alternate 
toast and broth in a baking dish. Cover with Parmesan cheese. 
Bake in a slow oven 300° F. from one to two hours. Sprinkle 
cinnamon and nutmeg between layers if desired. Serve while 
hot with extra cheese. 

This was a favorite of early Waldensian settlers to Valdese 
and was the basis for a simple Waldensian meal served with a 


lass of wine and cheese. | 
‘ Jeonne Danton Meytre, Burke County 


189 


~ CREAM OF CORN SOUP 


1 cup corn 1 tablespoon chopped celery 

2 cups milk leaves 

3 tablespoons melted butter Y, tablespoon minced onion 
or butter substitute Salt and pepper 


3 tablespoons flour 


Brown onion and celery leaves in butter. Add flour. Mix until 
smooth. Add milk slowly, stirring constantly. Add water. Cook 
over hot water until smooth and thick. Add corn. Season to 
taste. Heat thoroughly. (If desired celery salt to taste may be 
substituted for chopped celery leaves). 6 servings. 

Mrs. Albert Medlin, Jr., Union County 


CREAM OF PEANUT SOUP 


This is a recipe from the kitchen of Inglis Fletcher, author 
of a grand series of historical novels laid in the Albemarle 
district of North Carolina. It has been used in her family 
for several generations. “Bandon”, the home of Mrs. Fletcher, 
was built about 1800 on the banks of the Chowan River in 
Chowan County. “No writer of historical fiction about North 
Carolina could wish for a more pleasant retreat, a worthier spot 
in which to do her work.” 


2 tablespoons flour paste (present day recipe—1 
1 tablespoon butter cup peanut butter) 
1 quart whole milk, hot Salt to taste 


2 cups peanuts mashed in a spice 1 jigger dry sherry 
mortar with iron pestle into a 


Make a roux of butter and flour. Stir in slowly the hot milk 
and blend until smooth. Stir in peanut butter, blending. This 
should be the consistency of split pea soup. When ready to serve 
add the sherry. Top each serving with a teaspoon of whipped 
cream. This is unbelievingly delicate. Serves eight. 

Chowan County Council 


VEGETABLE SOUP 


Take chicken or beef broth. Add a small cabbage cut fine. 
Let come to boil, add 1 onion cut in small pieces, 1 can corn, 1 
quart of tomatoes, a few cubed carrots, potatoes and okra if 
you have them. Season with salt, pepper and sugar and let sim- 


mer a few minutes. ; 
Mrs. Stephen Watson, Wilson County 


190 


POTATO SOUP 


4 leeks, sliced (use tops as well as 1 cup light cream and 1 cup milk 
white parts) 4 cups water—5 bouillon cubes 
1 Bermuda onion—sliced (or home made chicken broth) 


5 large potatoes—peeled and sliced 1 to 2 tablespoons salt 
2 tablespoons butter 


Fry leeks and onions in 1 tablespoon butter until golden brown. 
Simmer water to which bouillon cubes have been added until cubes 
are dissolved. Add potatoes, leeks, onion and salt. Let cook cov- 
ered 35 to 40 minutes or until potatoes are well done. Rub mix- 
ture through a fine sieve or use a standard blender. Stir in milk 
and return to pot. Add cream, stir until boiling point is reached. 
Remove from fire, add remaining butter. 

The trick: Constant stirring while adding milk and cream. 

Hint: If you prefer, onions may be substituted for the leeks; 
add a clove of crushed garlic. 


Celestine Allio Dalmas, Burke County 


REVAL SOUP 


My husband’s family is still living on the original Land Grant 
that was issued to them by the government in pre-Revolutionary 
War Days. One of their favorite dishes is “Reval Soup”. It is 
a favorite because it is easy and quick to make, is economical 
and is very nourishing. 

Cook 1 cup Irish potatoes cut in very small pieces (14 in. 
cubes) in 3 cups water. Season well with ham or bacon fat. 
Butter may be used. 

Break 1 egg in 2 cups of flour, and work lightly with the 
finger tips until there are no iarge lumps. The “revals” should 
be small and almost uniform. This makes the soup better. 

Sprinkle “revals” into the boiling potatoes stirring constantly 
to prevent lumps. Cover, and continue cooking about 3 minutes. 
May be served plain, or with finely diced onion and (or) sour 
pickle. 

Variations: A thinner soup may be desired. If so, add more 
hot water before stirring in “revals”. Chicken, beef or pork 
broth, with pieces of meat may be used to make a wholesome, 
nourishing one dish meal. 

Mrs. C. J. A. Stirwalt, Cabarrus County 


191 


ONION SOUP 


6 onions, thinly sliced 3 tablespoons Parmesan cheese 
2 tablespoons bacon fat, butter, . Fresh bread—toasted 
margarine, or olive oil 7 cups water) ... | 
4, teaspoon Worchestershire sauce 10 beef bouillon cubes) 
Dash Tobasco sauce or 7 cups homemade beef stock 
Y, teaspoon kitchen bouquet Salt and pepper 


Fry onions in fat until golden brown. Add onions and sauces 
to bouillon or meat stock. Simmer in covered pan for one hour. 
Season with salt and pepper. To serve: Toast slices of French 
bread, top each slice with Parmesan cheese and slip under the 


broiler. Top each bowl of soup with a piece of toast, add more 
cheese, if desired. 


The trick: Use plenty of onions. 
Celestine Allio Dalmas, Burke County 


TOMATO SOUP 


', can or 1 pint tomatoes 1 quart milk 

2 teaspoons sugar 1 slice onion 

4 teaspoon soda 4 cup flour 

1 teaspoon salt 4 cup butter 
Pepper 


Stew tomatoes and sugar, strain, add soda and seasoning. Scald 
milk in double boiler with 1 slice onion. Add flour well blended 
with butter. Cook thoroughly. Remove onion from milk. Com- 
bine mixtures, adding tomato to milk slowly. Strain. Serve at 
once with buttered croutons. Garnish with grated cheese or 
parsley. 


Union County 


VEGETABLE BOUILLON 
(General Lee’s Favorite Soup) 


4 cups of tomatoes 2 teaspoons onion juice 

1 stalk of celery chopped Salt and pepper to taste 

2 carrots chopped One wine glass of sherry wine 
4 green pepper chopped (2 tablespoons) 

1 bay leaf 2 cups of water 


Put tomatoes in sauce pan with the water, add all of the 
vegetables and season and let boil for thirty minutes. Strain. 
Add the Sherry wine. Serve piping hot. 


Mrs. Wendell Hinshaw, Yadkin County 


192 


OLD-FASHIONED VEGETABLE SOUP 


1'%4 cups corn 10 pods okra, sliced 
1 cup sliced cabbage 4 cup washed rice 
Y, cup green lima beans or Y, cup sliced carrots 
other peas 3 tablespoons sugar 
3 medium Irish potatoes, 7, cup butter 
sliced thin 4 cup bacon fat (not smoked) 


Mix ingredients. Cover with water, salt to taste. Boil slowly 
until all ingredients are tender. Put in 2 cups tomatoes sliced 
fine, more if preferred. Let come to a boil. Add 1 pint to 1 quart 
boiling water. Let boil again. Then beat 1 cup of milk, 14 cup 
corn meal, pour into soup mixture, let simmer slowly for fifteen 
minutes. It is better if it sets an hour or more before serving, 
but it is delicious immediately. 

Mrs. Boyce Helms, Union County 


VEGETABLE SOUP (Scotch Pot) 


2 pounds beef knuckle with some 6 pods okra or small can beans, 
meat on it peas, or butter beans, either 

1 can tomatoes, No. 2 fresh or canned 

1 bunch carrots (5 to 6) '4 cup rice 

1 stalk celery, cut fine 4 large potatoes, boiled or 

2 medium sized onions creamed 


Salt and pepper to taste 


Put soup bone and meat on to cook five hours before soup is 
to be served. When it has boiled two hours at a low temperature, 
add cut up carrots, celery, whole onions, or beans, or butter 
beans, okra, and tomatoes. One hour before serving add rice 
and reduce heat. If a very thick soup is desired, creamed pota- 
toes can be added 15 minutes before serving. The seasoning 
should all be in for the last hour of cooking. This soup (with- 
out pepper) is perfect for babies from six months on, when 
strained, and is a full luncheon menu in one dish. 

Mrs. M. A. Temple, Harnett County 


193 





ey ‘pate ee ae . 
ras ee Rots: oad ss 
“§ sae ea ret | a kor” 
X . a 














a) * ‘ 
{ 
of : ete © t ! ae 
aa ‘ J Shoy 4s =| bear) } i = 
— * 1 
. , is opal Ps he * é 48 a” 4 = 
aan : ' ae ks a4 Ie: “it A 4 te ffl s ‘i 4 
ee ae aes ; Me fu ah } A - 
4 wa Bice ce ce - ; oy ae eo \ e 5 “ay 
i> & {Rare ser Sues bh er « % « sasek he Pee) . Ss 
: i¥ ’ Pete ee ae? he 
; = € ? ie ; Toy 
; a a% ’ 
f > ee) . : “ 4" 
{ i - ry . eee Ad da? ; we a" % « de 
fet h ¢ A e ' ry » -* 
z at > aes ' é ay Redd get “He ‘ 
¥ % we) Re t, r EMEist | git at <P : i! SUR ‘3 
, e a 
S ria ee bid. eRe ene ae | ¢ a as , x 
[™ sa r4 et ii P r+ 4 rine) a F ve - as oF 4 f (t 
\ ;: 7 a 7 - De, lw ee oe 
ni : " g 5 : 
ow Ai” og % a: Dsiew our’ \ oe USE Mie be xt a Che Pet ” ' Tet ere. 4 
es - can h \ “< a * . Fal e ia ne , 
; igen k & * by oe ite \ ¥ is. iy 4 "? ; a! id ‘ 
: o be ' rir Che oh 2* ee covyrt e u : € 
J . Vt t ny 4 re ¢ 
: f .— ee he dn kA Preys FIC. Wht Se Le iiatt : 
. y oa ; ‘ 
1 ‘ gia a 4 . y 
~ ; ey F > 7 tare ot , 5 roe 4e 5 i J 
. ay" . wes ‘ 4 f q Pe ea “ ete 
+ . ’ i Yavin wa he A d toy vx ibs a Gt ’ iz hy S . 1 ahs Daa 
Ld * a a: “2 ~S Yy 4 ee ¢ 7 Pip , be € 
‘ 73” ats 3 Ptah; May erie iyi . a bet ar ¢ et ¥ 47 7 7 a 
y Ph “ , ein ale ae A ah Ga Ss Sess es Sa wat 
i 6 ; a 4 j 
“ : “4 . 
i aay Sener ie € 
STITT AIFS Bad! aa LSA 
- . aT i 
- * 
j a a." ee | y es ay. ‘ , 
Poe ga ‘oc. Meee “Ps a t 
: , * ant a , vd #? Leth ghd aie ? > 
‘ : ‘ 
at ea - * ‘ ; 
r. “ ¢ ‘ =f 
“ af aX 
> - . 
af e 
bt ‘ ; 4 : { ’ 
; os 2 uf « , ‘ 
L f Ps ‘ ss > : } i j ‘s } hey : : , : 
ik > eo Va ‘ i ; ’ a i 4 i * 
}: ; “ t ‘ h - Z ' ; 
s . “ 
= it J , : i 
as r iy a fe > 4 r ‘ BY 
> a \ { i. %, Ate Kit r se 
: i 3 é , 
‘ a. = ‘ » : * ’ 4 
i - ; aah 4 - A 
pl € : J = — ? j 
« i] ° 
5 Se! 7 eek 4 ae ‘ —* ne 
; ~ gold Ae i ~s SS, > f 
> ' 7 
« d ‘ 
ss Y. Fa Pe ' 
= Ad yh £ a A " ro . «) 
‘ s P) * i \ i 4 2 hs ot By.’* 
. =~ ~) ¢ 
- ; ' 
wi : ‘x 
4 ieee ~ 4c ied 2 et + - 
7 wh v4 . 3% gor q 
abe ral eachiner Bae rare C 
Tit - 3 aa Ae : 7 a> 
A : ; Va i 
Q we ” 
= : j : : — ae » ae 
¥ ry 4 F , d 
7 « ets PTT: ( j a sa , ie aN 4 2 ae : Be aR — ~~ 
+s a 4 “N, do - | tre fuk ef » 4 34 A 7 ea 4 “i Vea ’ ‘ ‘ 
= \ aS ia ' ; f | ae 
i iv yi; Baise & DS i dae “\ 3 , i -¥ ; (ae ‘Je , ‘ . ‘ 
fy ’ ek tebe : 4 i i + f Y a 
ne pet lig eae, Praavanth ei 
A < ¥ 
ee si" bons t 5 >. 7 
ae » : i “ery hue 4 ; ve 4) . 35) 05 $ “4 ‘ 
7 : : > > = f * Dae ey 
~ ie es, ‘ a - Wye 
ia, tisha ae ve SUT are ee sie 
‘ “Le a y f aie t d j . 
+ > = a yiery Lan! F ied in +? i wn! = Oy 
4 . a ¢ 
, ‘ 
og Fn at 


ci es 


: go, | Say : 7 j fal 
th \ ryle 4 ke re a _ — an ‘ 7 , x a 
PN Se ie ae Ses 26 AiO eee ees fs phates i peas cAT 
‘ oh - ~~ — 2 . a *' i Ter 
7 t 





A 
AWOROSIQ 6 ccs oe ts an. 89 
Apples 
lRcuwty | 9 LES eer Sanne a 90 
Do) 0 Ae 90 
UG MONEE. oo is sae ait 2 99 
gh). 2. 90 
Apricot Angel Dessert ........ 89 
Asparagus 
PASSERUlOI © mets oe} viien oY . 67 
WPA RE oo ees Rarevage 67 
CVIPCCINS EE re ke Ss + ah 67 
B 
Beans 
Boston Baked ............ 68, 69 
GSS AIC 0) ee 7] 
EV ERAGCS Me. cules os cal 
Coffee 
fet VA a. as 10 
Grapeiruit Nog ............ 8 
Grapejuice 
Spiced @rOue..... 5... 9 
emonacG@sye..| 66s. eee: ih 
Punch 
Onis? (0. ; {=e 7 
Spiced, Hot .............. 8 
ON. ont 10 
PEOLIC A Venere ce, ka. css 8 A fi 
Ice Cream Chocolate ..... 9 
PICT MM ns hs 10 
Mintsvelivhtu.. ....5%.-... 9 
Southern Maryland ...... 8 
Summer Delight .......... 12 
PLC@AcaNCsETWits. 5... 5. ch: ao. 11 
Tea 
TET oc he coy ee ey es 11 
SPICES ELOLN ek a tee 8 
PSISCUILS Sat is Se cere 23, 26 
DCALCIe an. ois ORS ies oy 745) 
PuClermilie <0 ue% oe hisses 26 
STI Wane ae Lt cP: can cn eae 23 
Blackberry Trifle ............. 91 
ESTO ACS ee ree er i hee. 13, 28 
IND LORE ee oe Uo ne, oie ante 24 
SoM yee nh > ae en Te Bet a 24 
PSIECCER INT Kees so oo eee 26 
Corn 


Gakese oaks -oy as eee 14 


INDEX 


Crackling?) ne). ee 13 
Cush’), 2323.2 ee 16 
Kroes Sees eee 13 
Grandmother’ Ss eee 15 
Hush Puppies. ._._........ 16,17 
Jonnie Gake’.,... 82 es 15 
Muffins’. "isso eee 16 
Old-Fashioned ............ 20 
“Old Time Lighten” ....... 19 
Ponesr eee ee 14515 
Spoon Breads ........... 23,24 
Southern Style ....... Pa TDs 
INUt Gs eek an eee 26,27 
Old-Fashioned ......... 19 
Salt@Rising | ee oe 20,22 
Colonial. “2 2, 3 ate 21 
Old-Fashioned .._....... 21 
SOUOLtHIN ies cee ee 26 
SweetsPotato,)..04. . 28.8 27 
EON Gite, Roget iu 27 
C 

Cabbage 
Stuffed? ....31...: SP geteioae 1 
Syrian aa 3. eee ia 
Gaillette. (2: -) 2.2 eee 70 
Cakest. te 353 es 5 at 127, 160 
Abraham Lincoln’ s Favorite 131 
Apple Sauce ___............. 132,133 
Aunt Bettie’s Wedding ...... 131 
CakesBatter. a: 4.2. eee. 132 
Clave = ee belt ee. 133 
Cocoa-Walnut 40 4s.40. 2.2 127 
Coconuti (Swe at eae 128 
Damson Rresenre te BASES 134 
Date: Loaf ete... Sees. 135 
Deception |... .-)......,.; 920). 128 
Devil’s Food ........... 134-137 
Elizabeth’s Sponge ......... 130 
Fiesta Banana ............. 133 

Fruit 
Dolly Madison ........... 142 
Japanese .___............. 144, 145 
Miss Minnie’s Fruit-Nut ...146 
Moist!.3.4 Ae eee 147 
Molasses) 00 7.5 (hae eee 149 
Old-Fashioned Wine ...... 148 
100-Year-Old ............ 150 
Scotch Mec 2522) Gh eee 149 


Decorating#s.. oes eee: 151 
Pressure Cooker See 151 
Gingerbread WE. 157 
Great- Grandmother’ s eee ae 159 
Hard 0) oe ts Same « 158 
Lafayette 6). 52h. ae se 159 
Soft. oe hos hee 157, 158 
Waffles with Lemon Sauce 160 
Washington’s Hard . 157 
Jelly Roll Wee tees 135,138 
Lady Baltimore ............ 135 
Lemon Sponge ............ 127 
Mama’s Caramel ........... 138 
Minnehaha’ 72.) dace tee ©: 143 
Mom’s: Spice: (2-2... - stats 140 
Mother's... 402 ee so eee 136 
My Favorite Large Cake ... 129 
One-Two-Three-Four ....... 139 
Plantation (3.7. 24 2s acer 128 
Pound ?i% 4002 eee 151, 156 
Citron Sin See ele 151 
Congress). 3.3 ¥c.ast Re 156 
Thrift yit cs iin ae 154 
Ribbon (Rigo ye ae ea 141 
Sally? Lunn ee.44 ee 140 
Saliva Whiten we cae 140 
Skillet or Century ....... 130 
Solid fi £) 007s eal eco 156 
Sweet: Potato! 0-1. + 4- 141 
TOR AS Ho Peay fea nr eae 142 
Velvets0) Gtr te sea 143 
Wagwood Favorite ......... 141 
War-Time Special ......... 139 
Washington’s Loaf ........ 143 
Whipped Cream ............ 130 
CANCY faa tt ures, eee 175, 180 
Black and White Fudge _..... 175 
Chocolate 
Caramels: yas a 175 
Cream Fudge ........... 176 
Hud cea a We aiken ies ae 177 
Marshmallow ........... 179 
Coconut 
Bars Sse ae OM Pe Gs 176 
Fresh (oid See 177 
Creamy Fudge, .. «2 ..4-:. * ie 
Creole Pecan Pralines .... 178 
Foolproof Fudge ......... 179 
Martha Washington ..... 176 
Peanut 
Rollyo ai eee 178 
Sour Crean’ <1. Pets 180 
“Philly” Fudwveési.. 4:4) te 178 
SeasFoam:724.. feo eee 179 
Snow, Balis’....0.05 63.244: 180 
Spanish Sweets ............ 180 
Spiced Nuts |... 2.5 3 aee 180 
Carrot 
Soufiles 247 Se cee eee 12 
Cereal 
Grits:- 2 Fees. are 37 
Cheese =.6.o 582, Pe ee 61, 64 


196 


Baked’. G5. oS7 ees 61 
Ballistics ca, 61 
Miecaroni ihe. cee ee ee: 62 
Casserole ks cae 62 
Sandwich Spread .........-- 62 
Pimento: @... vo 4 eee ae 64 
Tomato Pepper .........- 63 
SOnfLa: 3.0 Cintas caer 63, 64 
Straws ces. use eee 63 
Chicken a0). eee 41, 46 
As La-King iio eee eee 42 
Barbecued o3:.0 2 (eee 43 
Hot. Sauce. 2-500 son eee 43 
Creamed’). ee ta aoe: 42 
CULE Vapors cot ales Sete: 41 
Fried 
Mexicani..3 coher ee 44 
Plantation (2... \5.0- ee 45 
Southern.) oo ee: 45 
Mother's) 24... See: 42 
Plone Sao ao ee eee 43 
Alabama Corn ........... Al 
Old-Fashioned ........... 46 
North Carolina ........... 44 
Pressed# ie ees.e ete een 44 
Clam 
Chowder, Williston ........ BS 
ECPICLOrs ts eo ee oe 54 
Gookies™) oi. 0, eee ee 161, 174 
Alice McCarroll ............ 168 
Bathurst Fruit Balls ....... 161 
Brown Sugar ©... OS@ eee 162 
Brownies o-.0 0... Woe eee 163 
Butter Letters Ree eh en E 162 
Butterscotch ... ........... 171 
Chewy Squares Re eae ae 164 
Chocolate” eden oon eee 165 
Ginger 
ico De: War. 0) open 169 
Molasses 2h ge: Go eee 165 
Old- Fashioned Cream... 166 
Snaps .. 166, 167 
Grandmother’s Tee. Cream .. 166 
Miers akese. til 7 < ee 171 
Badyakingers (0 yo0e 5 eee 168 
Love Feast Cakes ......... 167 
Molasses 
GHTISCIMAS: Vu hee 163 
SOLCMP EP eee es 164 
Ripc av tatt a. 3k. oh tie sae 169 
Christmas soon eee 170 
SATE ELA © pe ey alin 1 Ser lala a 169 
INOLCYRE INVOrs: 6250) ee 96 
OAtnTealere ot SiUk yn Ao 172 
PUIMDICS iat ee eae 170 
Orange Fritters .......... 171 
Party hia 
Sugar Cakes or - Crackers 161 
Swiss Christmas ........... 165 
Tea Cakes 
iGO Saas nce. Me ae 168 
Old- Fashioned Rinne, 170, 172 


Penelope Barker 
Corn 
Dried 
Fritters or Cakes 
Oysters 
Pudding 
Crab 
Deviled 
Cranberry Compote 
Cream Puffs 
Filling 
Custard 
Boiled 


Pi Ce 
Sarai ecey Mine) ee! le: 8 cb S26 i/o ie: ea; Te ne 
Pare! eli ee | th, ie.) @ Xe; “wl ¢ 8 (6; se, "8! ce 
oe eo we ew eo 
as mice 61) 40 hele est ler er alle fe 


Sata Saeat lel me) wre oe (ee iki & ce eve 


Doughnuts 
Sweet Potato 
Uncle Sam’s 


Dressing 
Chicken 
Chicken, Turkey, 
Beef, Pork 


me) 8) Gee) Be 


Re ODMR 4) cet Ne Sat forth) iat 8) te, 


Dixie Style 
MN Cletwe etait es es 

Cheese 
Stuffed 


Bimota: Me; ee le jee ew 


imi wi ae 6s 0S jeje Se a5 © 8. 8 


ch Ace 2 lar CE Cane) ee i ae Yet Se 


PA ae) tv 
Drum, Hatteras Style 
TriCO epee ei, . 
Herring, Parson Earl’s 
Muddle, Rock ......... 
Salmon Casserole 
Sad DAKE) oO... Y. 
Stew, Pine Bark 
Tuna Loaf 
With Chips 

Frostings and Fillings ... 
Apple Sauce 
PSOTeC Meena ol, Pel ee ghss 
Caramel] 
Chocolate o.oo ee 
Cocoa-Walnut 
Coconut 
Devil’s Food ........... 
Fiesta Banana 
Fruit Nut 
Japanese Fruit 
Lemon Cheese 

- Lemon Fluff 
Mint 


heey ose) enmis, bet vou e. 0 ©. + gral 


Te Cae 1) KSC ee we 


eh bk ees stein, cal isaieg te 


Fuio Lis lat (oe, (he ots Oks 


FACT bis it Tae eR ec teach on SCH! Se EL 


Cr 
ers) so. \d 
eee © 
oeeve 
#. ie) 16 OS 


oa] 4) 78 


oe es 
a he: eal 
7 a at 


oe ee 


o- 


pee cw 
Pik Sa oi 5 
oe a @ s 
sie 
Cr 
er ee 


oe 8 
oeee 


S09 wh e 


oR w! whe 


197 


G 
Game eee ee ve oe) tae 47, 50 
Rabbitaeroe oon oh eee AT 
Venison 
Alaskan Roast ........... 49 
Broiled 22) (2... Ger, ee 49 
Cutlets: soe a 50 
RO aS t> we she reer ai ah 48 
Steaks? Woy cna) eae canteens 48 
Stewr hehe tn: : ee 49 
Wild Duck or Geese......... 48 
I 
Ice Cream 
Condensed Milk ............ 93 
Maderiag eit hun ee eee 98 
L 
TiV@> ELOMMINY =. is 6 eSekco ene: 17 
M 
Meats ....... ee he had 29, 40 
Barbecued Spareribs ..... 33, 34 
Beef 
PAS ee eee 29 
Pots Roasets re ee a 30 
ROAST he i Oe a ee ee 31 
Yorkshire Pudding ..... 31 
Spiced aura Sia eee 3h 
Brunswick Stew 0). 2.2 ¥ 34 
Granville County ......... 34 
Cabbage Meat Rolls ......... 35 
Chili 
Home Stylevgs) (2 te 40 
Dumplings 41) 24.4. 36, 37 
Corn shoes eee 37 
Corn: Meal. 4 2 ee 36 
Southern? Wor ee 38 
Gravy 
Sausage Cream .......... 40 
Ham 
Baked 2252 Gh eye see ou 
Country Cured ........... 35 
Leasburg Boiled ......... 35 
Hamburger 
Southern) 24.020 eee ee 33 
EL ASH ieee Ree yee eee ere Sie 
Lambs Roast 38 
Liver 
Baked’. (soo ne ee 29 
Pudding 10) 70.82 ¢. 74a 38, 39 
Loaf Py SONS ETNL clon’ Glee ot cctools 32 
Pork Chops 
Country Style ............ 36 
Smothered .............. 40 
Ravioli Yous ae. eee 29 
Tomato Sauce ........... 30 
Slumgullion. (.. ) 4. i322 39 
Souse ye etek ots ol a ee 39 
Meringue 2255 ..¢..2)3-27- 117 


O 
Oysters seen eee 56, 58 
Frieda cuenta a eee 5 
Bickled ec eis aon © were 57, 58 
Scalloped 2. octet ese e. - 57 
Steamed itt ea ee 56 
Stew, Core Sound ........... 57 
P 
Pancakes 
Clabber Cakes ..........---- 13 
Pecan Date Roll ..........---- 97 
Pineapple Bavarian Cream... 100 
Pies ee A rian 105, 126 
An elle eo te ae 105 
Pood sur: oe ee 105 
Apple ses Aa: eae eee etsne ee 106 
Boston Cream se 64s ee 107 
Brown’ Suecar. 2905.03. aes 108 
Bittermilksc. 4oce pos boa ae 107 
Butterscotch 22 ..:..2°5-- 3: 106 
Garanie] eae ce.) eases: 115 
CHESS & ms. oe ae 111, 112 
ClocolarG ww sexsck os he ee 109 
Gr Galen tele vce tae ae 107 
Gitron?e (8s 2: aes a ke .110 
COCONUUL eee ae aS 108, 113 
Cottage Cheese ........... 108 
Gustard "47 (ou jaesect mast 110 
Dried Apples ind... 114 
Heo a Nb lide noe pat ee 114 
Damson Preserves .........-. 115 
Jefe Davis) 3 sn ek cate coe ion 113 
Lemon!) © nc8b bie ae on 116, 117 
GHESS kosen cae tee ee eee: 116, 117 
Greams & ose ei 116 
Southern’s. co wee ew 116 
Mince Meat ............ 123 
Molasses .. 22) Oo Siete ce 118, 119 
Old-Fashioned ........ . 118 
Peach 
Dried ore ces! ON ae 115 
Shortcake ............- 124 
Rennutss chit eee e 119 
Pecanw slit athe 119, 120 
Pineapple 
Aunt Polly's... eaeen cee 121 
Deh olitiye cee oe eas 122 
Poors Folks Geese 6 aee 121 
Potatonev a i as eee 120 
Irish Custard ........ 120 
Sweet Custard ..... 121 
Pumpkin? ae. ¢: cae WEA As: 
Chiffons.. 22.700 2.3 eee 109 
Southern ).24 « suceaar ee 110 
Rhubarbwe 346. eee 126 
Scuppernone «... J.. 4055. 124 
SUrAWDOrT Ye ke cree 124 
Shortcake ........... 124 
SVCuUpi~ 54s 50 ae See 125 
Tarts 
CHESS peek chen eee 111 


198 


Vinegar pier. ee 125, 126 
Pickles aiiscno ee oe ee 181, 187 
Artichoke | .siie'S: <6 use 181 
Beans 3. \: use) | eee 184 
Fanny Nelson’s Cucumber .. .183 
Green Tomato Sweet ....... 182 
Lazy Woman’s ..........--- 183 
Peaches, Sweet ............-- 185 
Watermelon Rind ..........-. 187 
Sweet. 45005 saa 186 
Potatoes 
Baked (hos ws ostles oe eee 70 
French Fries ........s2e:5l< 56 
Nut Croquettes ............. 73 
Potato and Pea Stew ...... V2 
Preserves 
Pumpkin 2). 2 2) SSasese 185 
Puddings? 2. 2) Bee ee 91,103 
Batter 2) 034- i472 eae eee 91 
Black? 2 un ee. ae se ee 94 
Bonney Clabber ..........-.. 93 
Buttermilk’ ee tester. eee 91 
Chocolate Bread ............ 92 
Gooseberry Fool .......... 100 
Lemon Peanut Ice-Box ..... 96 
Martha Washington ........ 96 
Molasses.) 65509080. .o tones. 98 
Persimmon ......... 97, 98, 99 
Ploniien se eee 94 
Potato, Irish; 3242 see 95 
Crisp with Prunes ....... 101 
Sweet)... 5.385 2. eee 101 
Grated 50.03 eee 103 
Rices i des Gs he eee 102 
Silico tac pe ese eect ee 103 
SnOwe. oh see ee ee ee eee 95 
R 
Raspberry Parfait .......... 94 
Relishésie Gv Sea oe 181-187 
Arthichokes 242) 181 
ChilivSauce’ oie s). 6 182 
Chutney, Apple............ 185 
Peachy x3 8) 35.0 eee ee 183 
Pear pe ot) Rhy ey eee ee 185 
Repper baked) o.4 soa 68 
Evie Tayloe’s ........... 184 
Spiced Grapes ............ 186 
Roliswiaan ws cui. A eee 17, 28 
Fastnachts; 400..3.... 722 18 
Reanut Ice-Box vs... . 379-7 18 
Quickaawes pss bcs Bee 20 
Yameabuns. 27:4. 3se eee 28 
S 
Salads) oven deel th eee 79, 87 
Ambrosiaws.&- > ence See 85 
Chicken. sitscis tone eee 79 
Molded 4300.28) eee 79 
Christmas Wreath ......... 83 


SEANDEEL YOY s ihc HR ee 83 
Congealed Fresh ......... 86 
MP PVANIC Varia, eae! cco oes 87 
aster Egger, iis... shes. 79 
PePOZOMEETUIG 6); ocx fh thc 82 
Le OC ie ee ae 83, 84 
PUINTOC AAI 2% 5. Sk sd as te 82, 83 
Green Pepper .............. 81 
Jellied Waldorf ............ 86 
ETA) 0 a 80 
Old-Fashioned Potato ..... 80, 81 
Southern Lettuce ........... 82 
Perfection .............. . 84 
ONTO) Ee rr rr 84 
Wath Gheese ... J 6.4... .)!. 85 
AEISOULI AE Ae 8 ion a ve 85 
law 
LES ~ eee 81 
02 oS SO he rn te 80 
Salad Dressings ........... 86, 88 
Gahbave Slaw .............. 87 
OOHEUI oe ck os ve was 86, 87 
PLM i inca a sco 87 
SEA MIA Piety oD). ok, kala in uses 88 
Sauces 
Mock Hollandaise .......... 66 
Beaepurtio Hash, _... 6... ..%+ n> 60 
Shrimp 
LTO RSSDEST SS en ea 59 
Snow Cream, North Carolina 102 
SCC NEES i ee 189, 193 
SYSu? eee | 189 
Cheese Potato ............. 189 


199 


Cream of Corn ............. 190 
Cream of Peanut ........... 190 
La SOUp pat ect 189 
MockiRartles>.. scp 59 
OnlONi eee heal ae 192 
Potatowyce. tee Se ieee 191 
Reva lt wemat yess, 2 ee le 191 
TLOMato meta oe oe Lee 192 
Megetablemc 7. feu | 190, 193 
Bouillonve. eee cae ee 192 
Old-Fashioned ........... 193 
Sparhettiqe oe. 0. eee S208 
Squash 
Patties cumwse oe. 5 astra 73 
AU Gralin@. 204. ee 74 
SOUlGm@i aa eee 75 
Sweet Potatoes............ 75, 78 
Casseroles 4) nae 76 
Glazedseiern eA ae om 78 
Mashed? 3.5 or... kee ee 78 
OPANG Goh Ae ofa) ene ee hadd 77 
Pudding ees. cay tt te ee ee 75 
Pulls: peas, kee ee 77 
SOUiMe gegen: Vee kn. eae 16.7% 
Wams- Candied...) seeee 78 
SE VIOUMAN RING tac! ae. aahe en 76 
T 
Tomatoes 
Ruddinga <o.. epee ene 74 
V 
Vegetables... 35 ......5 67, 78 


a Pee 
4 aber yelt 4 


Ber 





rc 


MIAME 
. i) thee ly y 
ay aes | 
Gh : an? 


rere: 
=) a's ‘y ‘a 


oun 


a i : 








