jjJJlt 


I  CANNOT  LEAVE  THE  LIBRARY,  i 


Chap..- 
Shelf. 


TX-7-/S 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 

1   LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS.    1 

58  9-165        m 

:  ::■::■::-::  ::  ::  ::  ::•::■::■:: 


GOOD-LIVING 


A   PRACTICAL  COOKERY-BOOK 
FOR   TOWN   AND   COUNTRY 


SARA    VAN   BUREN    BRUGIERE 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music,  and  art ; 
We  may  live  without  conscience  and  live  without  heart ; 
We  may  live  without  friends  ;  we  may  live  without  books  ; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

He  may  live  without  hooks — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving  ? 
He  may  live  without  hope — what  is  hope  but  deceiving? 
He  may  live  without  love — what  is  passion  but  pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining  ? 

"Lucile" — Owen  Meredith. 


G.  P.  PUTNAM'S  SONS 

IRK  LO 

-THIRD  ST.         27  KING  WILL 

She  liniclurborkr  |)ttgs 


LONDON 
27  KING  WILLIAM  ST.,  STRAND 


USTT3M. 


<£ 


4v 


Copyright  by 

SARA  VAN   BUREN   BRUGIERE 

i8go 


Ube  fmicfterbocfter  press,  Hew  igorfc 

Electrotyped,  Printed,  and  Bound  by 
G.  P.  Putnam's  Sons 


PREFACE. 

It  is  proposed,  in  this  present  work,  to  make  an  attempt 
to  carry  the  simplicity  and  exactness  of  the  science  of  cook- 
ery one  step  forward,  and  thus  contribute  toward  bringing 
this  most  excellent  and  necessary  branch  of  chemistry  (of 
which  cooking  certainly  forms  a  part)  into  the  more  imme- 
diate and  practical  use  of  our  own  households.  It  is  most 
earnestly  desired  to  help  house-keepers  to  set  forth  a  dainty 
table  at  moderate  outlay,  and  to  give  them  receipts  so  clearly 
and  accurately  explained  that  the  percentage  of  success  shall 
be  materially  increased — granted  that  the  same  house-keeper 
or  her  cook  shall  bring  to  the  undertaking  an  average  amount 
of  intelligence  ;  for,  no  matter  how  much  pains  any  writer  or 
compiler  of  cookery-books  may  take  to  make  receipts  clear 
and  practical,  the  same  necessity  exists  as  that  recognized 
by  the  great  painter,  who,  when  asked  how  he  mixed  his 
colors,  replied,  "  With  brains,  sir." 

There  has  been,  within  the  last  few  years,  a  marked  im- 
provement in  the  designation  of  the  various  ingredients  and 
their  quantities  to  be  used  in  the  preparation  of  dishes  ;  it 
is  much  less  common  nowadays  than  formerly  to  be  told  to 
"  take  some  "  of  this,  that,  or  the  other,  thereby  leaving  the 
chance  of  success  entirely  dependent  upon  the  accident  of 
guessing  happily,  or  otherwise,  at  the  relative  proportion  of 
the  component  parts  of  dishes.  The  noticeable  improve- 
ment in  this  respect  is  already  a  stride  taken  in  the  right 
direction,  and  receives  full  consideration  in  the  present  work. 

It  is  frequently  found  to  be  a  stumbling-block  to  the  suc- 
cess of  a  dish  that  the  time  for  the  fire  to  do  its  work  is  not 


IV  PREFACE. 

specified.  This  last  must  be  recognized  by  all  as  being  a  most 
important  factor  in  the  case.  Of  course,  it  is  often  impossi- 
ble to  lay  down  fixed  rules  on  this  subject  ;  but  it  is  possible 
to  give  an  approximate  idea — to  give  an  average  of  time, 
which  shall  be  dependent  only  to  a  certain  extent  upon  con- 
comitant circumstances,  notably  upon  the  heat  of  the  fire ; 
this  latter  depending,  not  upon  the  maker  of  the  cookery- 
book,  but  upon  the  maker  of  the  fire.  Surely,  with  experi- 
ence to  guide,  and  an  earnest  desire  to  throw  light  upon  this 
important  point,  we  ought  and  must  be  able  to  improve  upon 
the  old-fashioned  "  cook  until  done  "  ;  which  form  of  phrase 
conveys  to  the  amateur,  or  to  the  inexperienced  cook,  no  idea 
whatsoever  as  to  whether  allowance  should  be  made  of  six 
hours  or  six  minutes  for  the  fire  to  do  its  share  in  the  prepa- 
ration of  the  dish  to  be  served.  This,  therefore,  is  the  point 
to  which  much  study  has  been  devoted,  for  decisions  upon 
which  the  best  authorities  have  been  consulted,  and  unlimited 
tests  made,  with,  it  is  believed,  results  that  will  be  of  sub- 
stantial service  to  many  struggling  souls. 

Especial  attention  has  been  given  to  our  conventional, 
simple,  home  dishes,  which,  as  a  rule,  are  not  sufficiently 
noticed ;  it  being  taken  for  granted,  apparently,  that,  on  ac- 
count of  their  simplicity,  directions  are  unnecessary.  This 
mistake  causes  the  results  which  are  witnessed  daily  ;  the 
simpler  the  thing,  the  worse  it  is  done.  Take,  for  example, 
tea.  How  very  easy  it  is  to  make,  and  yet  how  many  are 
there  who  make  it  really  well?  Another  example  :  In  one 
instance  met  with,  the  subject  of  "  Roast  Beef  "  is  disposed 
of  with  about  half  a  dozen  lines  as  to  the  cooking,  a  few 
more  as  to  the  serving  and  remarks — leaving,  practically,  the 
whole  success  to  the  brain  and  experience,  or  ^-experience, 
of  the  cook.  Now  if  the  cook  knows,  she  requires  no  re- 
ceipt ;  if,  on  the  other  hand,  she  is  ignorant  and  requires  a 
receipt,  it  should  certainly  be  a  full  and  clear  one,  from  which 
she  can  work  with  the  fairest  chance  of  success  ;  failing  to 
find  this,  the  result,  nine  times  out  of  ten,  is  badly  roasted 
beef.     For  these  reasons,  the  receipts  for  roasting  meats, 


PREFACE.  V 

poultry,  game,  etc.,  have  been  most  carefully  studied,  even  in 
the  smallest  detail.  There  is  a  trite  old  saying  to  the  effect 
that  "  If  a  thing  is  worth  doing  at  all,  it  is  worth  doing  well  "  ; 
to  nothing  does  it  apply  more  correctly  than  to  the  question 
of  cooking ;  therefore,  even  in  the  least  of  these  receipts, 
pains  have  not  been  spared  to  enable  the  cook,  be  she  ama- 
teur or  otherwise,  to  turn  out,  no  matter  how  simple  the 
menu,  dishes  that  shall  be  successful,  appetizing,  and  com- 
plete. 

An  effort  has  been  made  to  save  from  the  general  fate,  a 
number  of  good,  old-fashioned  receipts,  which  are  gradually 
being  elbowed  out,  and  their  place  taken  by  elegant  novel- 
ties which  have,  perhaps,  not  a  fractional  part  of  their  relish 
to  recommend  them.  But  attention  is  called  to  the  fact  that, 
while  plain,  old-fashioned  dishes  have  their  place  and  share  in 
the  present  book,  it  is  far  from  being  devoted  solely  to  them. 

This  work  is  not  designed  for  chefs  de  cuisine,  but  for  that 
large  class  of  house-keepers  who  have  a  proper  appreciation 
of  the  value  of  "  Good-Living  "  as  being,  obviously,  conducive 
to  health  and  domestic  happiness.  For  young  house-keepers, 
who  have  their  experience  to  gain  ;  it  is  sincerely  hoped  that 
this  present  will  assist  them  to  purchase  that  same  experience 
at  the  expense  of  far  fewer  failures  in  the  way  of  dinners, 
far  less  outlay  and  waste  of  good  materials,  and  far  less  use- 
less expenditure  of  nerve-force.  Also,  for  the  young  cook, 
who  has  a  worthy  desire  to  improve  herself.  It  has,  there- 
fore, been  made  a  rule  to  admit  no  receipt  which  does  not 
bring  with  it  as  recommendation,  first  of  all,  acceptability  ; 
then  simplicity  of  execution,  and,  possibly  not  least  impor- 
tant consideration,  moderate  outlay — to  furnish  the  best  for 
the  least  cost — a  good  cuisine,  and,  at  the  same  time,  an 
economical  one.  To  this  end  have  been  eschewed  all  fanci- 
fully-extravagant receipts,  calling  for  condiments  which  are 
not  habitually  in  use,  or  for  an  excessive  quantity  of  any 
very  expensive  materials.  As  there  are  many  books  where 
receipts  of  this  latter  class  may  be  found,  it  has  been  deemed 
unadvisable  to  add  one  to  that  vast  collection. 


vi  PREFACE. 

An  earnest  endeavor  has  been  made  to  collect  a  series  of 
dishes  to  please  all  palates,  the  gourmet's  included.  There 
will,  therefore,  be  found  a  large  number  of  receipts  for  the 
daintiest  tastes,  selected  from  many  countries,  to  suit  the 
various  requirements  of  our  cosmopolitan  community.  End- 
less researches  have  been  necessary  to  select  these  receipts 
from  the  most  approved  sources,  those  from  other  countries 
being  dishes  for  which  one  or  other  land  is  famous.  As  the 
French  cuisine  is  recognized  as  being  the  first  of  all,  many 
receipts  are  taken  from  that  source,  adapting  many  of  its 
methods  to  our  requirements.  In  the  same  way,  Belgium, 
that  land  of  solid  good-living,  second,  only,  in  excellence  to 
France,  has  been  taxed  for  contribution  to  our  work.  Eng- 
land, Germany,  Italy,  Holland,  Denmark,  etc.,  etc.,  all  contri- 
bute something. 

From  our  home  cuisine  are  selected  the  best  and  most 
popular  dishes  of  the  Eastern  States ;  those  again  of  Phila- 
delphia, that  paradise  of  terrapin  and  kindred  good  things  ; 
from  Baltimore  and  the  South,  many  of  the  excellent  dishes 
so  well  prepared  by  the  negro  cooks ;  and  from  further 
South  still,  we  have  the  many  delicious  receipts  furnished  by 
the  Creole  school  of  cookery. 

This  outline  will  convey  a  slight  idea  of  the  enormous  field 
that  has  been  gone  over,  and  authorities  consulted,  among 
whom  are : 

Urbain-Dubois,  "  Cuisine  Classique." 

Audot,  "  Cuisiniere  de  la  Campagne  et  de  la  Ville." 

Caudelier,  "  Cuisine  Economique." 

Pierre  Caron,  "  French  Dishes  for  American  Tables." 

Careme. 

Gouffe. 

Soyer. 

Mrs.  Reeve,  "  Cookery  and  House-Keeping." 

Mrs.  Beeton,  "  Modern  Household  Cookery." 

Miss  Leslie,  "  Complete  Cookery." 

Kensington  School,  "  Lessons  in  Cookery." 

Mrs.  Henderson,  "  Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner-Giving." 


PREFACE.  Vll 

"  In  the  Kitchen." 

Marion  Harland,  "  Common-Sense  in  the  Household." 
"  "  "  Breakfast,  Luncheon,  and  Tea." 

Mrs.  Rorer,  "  Philadelphia  Cook  Book." 

Miss  Corson,  "  School  Text-Book." 
"  "        "  Cooking  Manual." 

Miss  Parloa. 

Etc.,  Etc.,  Etc. 

There  is  given  a  "  Time-Table  "  for  meats,  one  for  poul- 
try and  game,  and  one  for  vegetables.  This  is  believed  to 
be  a  novelty,  and  one  that  will  supply  a  long-felt  want ;  and 
should  be  of  great  assistance,  as  the  tables  have  been  pre- 
pared with  infinite  pains,  research,  and  tests  innumerable. 

There  is  also  given  a  "  Table  of  Comparative  Weights 
and  Measures,"  which  will  be  found  useful  in  the  kitchen. 

A  chapter  of  "  Relishes  for  Breakfast  "  has  been  added, 
which,  it  is  hoped,  will  serve  as  an  aid  to  the  house-keeper 
in  making  out  her  bill-of-fare  for  tftat  meal ;  oftentimes 
a  weariness  to  the  spirit  after  the  labor  of  planning  for 
luncheon  and  dinner. 

The  chapter  of  "  Stray  Notes,"  contains,  as  its  title  implies, 
notes  on  various  household  subjects,  which  may  be  of  prac- 
tical service.  There  are  directions  for  the  "  Order  of  Service 
of  Dinner,"  which  will  be  found  very  useful  in  making  out 
menus.  Also  will  be  found,  wherever  it  is  deemed  appro- 
priate, the  French  as  well  as  the  English  names  of  dishes. 

As  a  rule,  the  receipts  are  based  upon  the  requirements  of 
a  family  of  average  size — that  is,  six  to  eight  persons. 

Acknowledgments  are  tendered  to  those  authors  from 
whose  works  have  been  taken  some  of  the  following  receipts  ; 
as  also  to  the  many  private  sources  which  have  contributed 
so  generously  to  the  collection. 


TABLE  OF   CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

I. — Preface.          . iii 

II. — Table  of  Comparative  Weights  and  Meas- 
ures   xii 

III. — Soups,  Purees,  and  Soups  without  Meat  .  i 

IV. — General  Directions  for  Frying          .  40 

V. — Fish .        .        .  42 

VI.— Shell-Fish .68 

VII. — Time-Table  for  Cooking  Meats  ...  88 
VIII. — Directions  for  Keeping  Meats  Warm  and 

Re-Heating 89 

IX. — Beef 90 

X. — Mutton  and  Lamb 116 

XL — Veal 132 

XII.— Pork 164 

XIII. — Time-Table  for  Cooking  Game  and  Poul- 
try   174 

XIV. — Poultry 175 

XV. — Game 205 

XVI. — Macaroni    and    Entries    not    otherwise 

Classified 224 

XVII. — Force-Meats,  Garnishes,  etc.       .         .         .  233 

XVIIL— Sauces 243 

XIX. — Time-Table  for  Cooking  Vegetables         .  264 

XX. — Vegetables 265 

XXI. — Salads  and  Dressings  .        .        .        .    '     .  324 

XXII. — Savory  Relishes 340 

XXIII. — Order  of  Service  of  a  Dinner    .        .         .  345 

XXIV. — Relishes  for  Breakfast        .        .         .        .347 

XXV.— Eggs 350 

ix 


TABLE   OF  CONTENTS. 


CHAPTER 

XXVI. — Butter,  Cheese,  etc 

XXVII. — Bread,  Biscuit,  and  Breakfast  Cakes 

XXVIII— Cakes 

XXIX. — Icings  and  Fillings  for  Cakes    . 
XXX. — Pastry,  Pies,  and  Puddings 
XXXI. — Pudding  Sauces     .... 
XXXII. — Desserts,  Jellies,  Creams,  Fritters, 
tards,  etc.         .... 
-    XXXIII. — Ice-Creams  and  Water-Ices 
XXXIV. — Preserves  and  Candies 
XXXV. — Pickles,  Catsups,  etc.  .  -     . 

XXXVI. — Beverages,  etc 

XXXVII. — Cookery  for  Invalids  . 
XXXVIII.— Stray  Notes 


Cus- 


PAGS 
369 

373 
394 
419 

423 
45° 

454 
490 

5o5 
5i5 
522 

529 
532 


TABLE    OF    COMPARATIVE   WEIGHTS   AND 
MEASURES. 


16  ounces equal 

I  quart  of  sifted  flour 

i  quart  of  powdered  sugar 

I  quart  of  granulated  sugar 

i  closely-packed  pint  of  butter 

10  moderate-sized  eggs 

3  cups  of  sugar 

5  cups  of  sifted  flour 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg about 

Butter,  size  of  a  walnut " 

i  tablespoonful  of  butter " 

Average  weight  of  a  good-sized  egg " 

1  pint  of  water  or  fruit  juice " 

i  sherry  glass  =  y2  gill. 

i  wineglass  =  i  gill. 

i  cup  =  about  y2  pint  or  2  gills. 

5  sherry  or  whiskey  bottles  to  i  gallon. 

4  gills  =  i  pint,  2  pints  =  i  quart,  4  quarts  =  1  gallon. 

60  drops  =  1  teaspoonful,  2  teaspoonfuls  =  1  dessertspoonful 
4  teaspoonfuls  =  1  tablespoonful. 

2  dessertspoonfuls  =  1  tablespoonful. 

1  tumbler  =  )/2  pint  or  2  gills. 

2  saltspoons  =  1  teaspoon  (dry). 


GOOD-LIVING 


SOUPS,    PUREES,  AND    SOUPS  WITHOUT   MEAT. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS   FOR   MAKING   SOUP. 


CONSOMME. 


8  lbs.  shin  of  beef, 
10  quarts  of  water, 

3  or  4  large  carrots, 

4  large  onions, 
io  allspice, 

i  head  of  celery, 


Whole  shin  of  veal, 

Salt  and  pepper, 

3  leeks, 

6  cloves, 

I  cup  of  tomatoes  or  a  handful  of  sorrel, 

Bunch  of  parsley. 


Put  the  meat,  water,  pepper,  and  salt  into  a  large-soup- 
kettle.  (An  old  hen  may  be  substituted  for  the  shin  of  veal.) 
Keep  it  where  it  will  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  I  hour ;  then 
draw  it  forward,  and  bring  it  to  a  good  boil ;  skim  as  the 
scum  rises  ;  in  another  hour  add  the  vegetables,  etc.  ;  boil 
very  gently,  but  incessantly  for  about  io  hours,  making  in  all 
about  12  hours  of  cooking. 

Too  much  stress  cannot  be  laid  upon  the  importance  of 
these  two  great  essentials  to  the  making  of  good  soup  : 
First,  never  let  the  soup  stop  boiling  for  one  instant :  Never 
add  water,  once  the  soup  is  started.  Neither,  on  the  other 
hand,  must  you  let  the  soup  boil  at  a  racking  rate,  or  it  will 
be  muddy,  and  you  will  lose  a  great  deal  by  evaporation. 
If  the  fire  needs  replenishing,  have  your  cook  feed  first  one 


2  GOOD-LIVING. 

side,  then  the  other,  when  the  first  is  well  ignited.  These 
rules  are  very  simple,  surely,  but  it  will  be  found  extremely 
difficult  to  make  the  ordinary  cook,  of  the  style  we  have  in 
America,  respect  or  appreciate  them,  unless  by  patience  and 
repetition  on  the  part  of  the  house-keeper.  The  best  soup 
in  the  world,  no  matter  how  much  good  material  has  been 
put  into  it,  will  be  rendered  insipid,  flat,  and  tasteless  by  the 
infraction  of  any  of  these  rules.  Take  them  to  heart :  call 
them  the  "  Golden  Rules  "  of  soup-making,  and  you  will 
have  learned  a  secret  which  you  can  impart  to  your  sister- 
house-keepers,  with  the  secure  sense  of  conferring  a  benefit 
upon  poor  soup-loving,  long-suffering  humanity. 

As  your  soup  must  boil  a  long  time,  I  have  chosen  this 
opportunity  for  a  little  dissertation  on  soup-making,  which 
will  be  equally  well  applied  to  many  of  the  following  receipts. 
This  receipt  for  Consomme,  and  those  for  Bouillon  and 
Pot-au-feu  are  the  "  mother  soups,"  so  to  speak,  and  therefore 
there  cannot  be  too  much  pains  on  my  part,  nor  too  much 
patience  on  yours,  to  make  them  clearly  understood,  ex- 
plained, and  studied.  Learn  to  make  these  reliably  and 
thoroughly  well,  and  one  great  step  has  been  taken  toward 
the  setting  forth  of  a  good  dinner. 

When  your  soup  has  boiled  gently  for  its  prescribed  time, 
take  it  off ;  strain  it  into  a  large  bowl  and  set  it  away  until 
next  day.  Then  remove  the  fat  from  the  surface  (this  makes 
excellent  drippings) ;  pour  off  all  the  clear  part  into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  boil  again  for  I  or  2  hours.  Then  remove  it  from 
the  fire.  This  will  make  a  stiff  jelly  which  will  keep  in  win- 
ter for  several  days  in  the  ice-box.  It  will  serve  also  to  make 
a  handsome  Brown  Sauce  (Espagnole).  The  best  way  to  keep 
it,  is  to  divide  it  in  parts,  allowing  a  certain  quantity  for 
each  day,  then  that  one  part  is  used  without  disturbing  the 
rest.  Yellow  earthenware  pitchers  holding  I  to  2  quarts 
each  will  be  found  the  best  to  put  it  in.  Use  the  thick  part 
of  the  soup  with  vegetables,  or  other  pur6e.  If  you  have 
the  carcass  of  a  raw  chicken,  or  any  raw  beef-bones,  they  can 
be  added  when  the  soup  is  first  put  down  ;  but  cooked  meat 


GILT-EDGED  BOUILLON.  3 

or  bones,  unless  freed  from  every  particle  of  fat  or  meat,  will 
muddy  the  soup. 

This  soup  requires  no  artificial  coloring. 

The  above,  sufficiently  boiled  down  in  an  uncovered  sauce- 
pan, will  make  an  excellent  Glaze.     (See  receipt  for  same.) 


GILT-EDGED  BOUILLON. 

This  receipt  gives  the  proportions  for  one  quart  of  bouillon 
sufficiently  concentrated  for  the  use  of  invalids.  The  same 
proportions  may  be  used,  but  not  boiled  quite  as  long,  for 
dinners,  luncheons,  etc.,  etc.  For  the  former  purpose,  that  is 
for  illness,  where  the  quantity  administered  is  required  to  be 
as  nutritious  as  possible,  it  is  decidedly  better  not  to  clear  it 
any  more  than  by  passing  it  through  a  fine  strainer.  Ex- 
perience has  proved  quite  satisfactorily  the  fact  that  the 
process  of  clearing  destroys  a  great  deal,  not  only  of  the 
more  delicate  flavor,  but  also  of  the  nutriment  contained  in 
the  bouillon.  The  two  "  Golden  Rules "  of  soup-making 
will  require  repetition  very  often  before  we  succeed  in  get- 
ting our  consommes  and  bouillons  properly  made :  Never 
let  the  soup  cease  boiling  when  once  it  has  begun :  Never 
add  water  after  your  ingredients  are  once  put  together  and 
begin  to  boil. 

The  following  receipt  is  the  result  of  much  personal  study 
and  observation,  with  a  view  to  two  things  :  First,  success ; 
then  simplicity ;  once  made,  literally  according  to  directions, 
it  should  never  fail. 

3  lbs.  of  beef  without  bone  or  fat,  3  or  4  cloves, 

3  quarts  of  cold  water,  6  or  8  allspice, 

1  scant  cup  of  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes,  1  small  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  small  bay-leaf,  1  clove  of  garlic  (this  can  be  omitted 
1  piece  of  red-pepper  pod,  about  yi  for  the  sick), 

inch  (without  seeds),  1  level  teaspoon  of  celery  seed. 

The  beef  should  be  as  freshly  killed  as  possible,  and  pref- 


4  GOOD-LIVING. 

erably  of  the  cut  known  by  the  butchers  as  the  "  horse- 
shoe." 

Put  the  above  ingredients  into  the  soup-kettle,  cover,  and 
bring  to  a  boil ;  when  boiling  smartly,  set  aside  where  it  will 
simmer  steadily  ;  do  not  let  it  rack.     After  2£  hours,  add  : 


medium-sized  carrot  cut  in  pieces,         i  sprig  of  thyme, 

onion  cut  in  pieces,  I  bunch  of  parsley  and  celery  (if  you 

have  not  already  used  seed). 


Replace  the  cover,  leaving  the  top  at  least  •§•  open.  Boil 
again  2£  hours,  making  5  hours  of  actual  boiling  in  all. 
Now  taste  it.  If  not  strong  enough,  boil  longer  until  satis- 
factory. No  exact  time  nearer  than  the  above  can  be  given, 
as  circumstances  (the  amount  and  rapidity  of  evaporation, 
etc.,  etc.)  will  vary.  When  cooked  to  your  taste,  strain  all 
the  broth  off  through  a  hair-sieve  into  a  bowl.  At  this  stage 
it  should  measure  a  full  quart  (always  speaking  of  that  to  be 
used  for  the  sick)  ;  or  about  3  pints  for  dinner  use.  Stand  it 
away  until  next  morning.  Then  remove  every  particle  of 
grease  from  the  surface.  If  you  are  satisfied  not  to  clarify 
it,  carefully  pour  off  the  upper  portion  ;  do  not  shake  the 
bowl  or  disturb  the  sediment.  Add  about  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  sherry,  some  salt,  celery-salt  (if  necessary),  and  cayenne. 
This  will  now  measure,  wine  included,  a  scant  quart. 

To  clarify  the  Bouillon,  after  removing  the  fat,  pour  it 
into  a  very  clean  kettle,  add  to  it  the  unbeaten  white  of  1 
egg,  also  the  crushed  shell ;  stir  these  into  the  cold  soup  un- 
til well  mixed.  Set  it  on  the  fire,  and  from  the  time  it  breaks 
into  a  boil,  let  it  cook  steadily  for  10  minutes  (longer  will  re- 
duce the  soup,  and  make  it  still  stronger).  Stand  it  on  the 
hearth  for  3  or  4  minutes  to  settle  ;  then  pour  it  through  a 
jelly-bag,  made  of  well-shrunken  flannel.  Do  not  squeeze 
the  bag,  but  allow  it  to  drip  to  the  last  drop.  Then  add  the 
above  amount  of  sherry,  with  seasonings  as  directed.  This 
soup  requires  no  artificial  coloring,  its  own  strength  and  long 
boiling  producing  a  beautiful  tint. 


POT-AU-FEU.  5 

POT- A  U-FEU. 

3  pounds  of  lean  beef,  4  quarts  cold  water, 
Pinch  of  salt,  2  carrots, 

2  turnips,  small,  1  parsnip, 

2  leeks,  Bunch  of  celery  leaves, 

Bunch  of  parsley,  1  bay-leaf, 

2  whole  cloves,  I  clove  of  garlic, 

4  allspice,  Small  piece  of  red-pepper  pod, 
Small  piece  of  lemon-peel,  I  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

The  best  cut  for  this  is  from  the  round,  lower  end,  called 
the  "  horse-shoe  "  piece  by  the  butchers.  It  is  important  to 
have  lean  beef,  and  that  it  should  be  as  freshly  killed  as  may 
be.  Put  down  the  beef,  water,  salt,  and  spices.  Bring  gently 
to  a  boil.  Skim  well.  Set  back  where  it  will  keep  on  a 
gentle,  but  very  steady  boil.  After  2  hours,  when  the  soup 
is  well  skimmed,  add  the  vegetables,  and  continue  to  boil  for 
5  or  6  hours.  The  essentials  for  making  good,  strong,  tasty 
broth,  are  two,  namely  :  Never  let  it  cease  boiling ;  and  never, 
under  any  circumstance,  add  water  to  your  soup  during  the 
cooking.  Observe  these  rules  most  strictly.  This  receipt 
will  give  you  an  excellent  soup  for  family  use.  If  you  wish 
to  have  it  perfectly  clear,  refer  to  the  receipt  for  Clearing 
Soups.  If  you  will  strain  off  the  broth  when  done,  through 
a  fine  sieve,  and  set  it  away  in  a  cool  place,  the  next  day, 
after  removing  the  fat,  you  will  be  able  to  pour  off  carefully 
the  top,  leaving  all  the  sediment  to  be  used  in  thick  soups  ; 
in  which  case  you  can  generally  dispense  with  the  clearing 
process,  which,  unless  done  by  the  use  of  raw  beef  (an  extra 
expense),  destroys  the  nutritious  quality  of  your  broth. 

In  France,  the  day  the  Pot-au-feu  is  freshly  made,  it  is 
served  with  small  squares  of  dry  bread  put  in  the  tureen, 
and  the  hot  soup  thrown  over  them  at  the  moment  of  serv- 
ing ;  the  vegetables,  which  have  been  boiled  in  the  broth, 
are  handed  around  on  a  separate  dish.  Cabbage  may  be 
added  to  the  above  receipt,  with  great  benefit  to  the  flavor, 
but  it  prevents  the  broth  from  keeping  very  long — otherwise 
this  Pot-au-feu  can  be  set  on  the  ice,  and  kept  for  several 


6  GOOD-LIVING. 

days  in  winter.  This  broth  does  not  require  coloring  if 
boiled  long  enough. 

In  Italy,  grated  cheese  is  served  with  the  above,  each  guest 
taking  one  teaspoonful  in  his  soup-plate.  Any  cooked  meat 
added  to  the  soup-pot  will  make  the  broth  less  clear. 

The  beef  cooked  in  the  broth  becomes  the  French 
Bouilli  (see  receipt).  In  this  case,  it  should  weigh  at  least 
six  pounds,  cooked  in  the  above  proportions. 

COLORING  FOR  SOUPS. 

An  excellent  preparation  which  can  be  kept  on  hand  for 
coloring  soups,  is  the  following  : 

Take  an  earthen  jar ;  fill  it  to  the  top,  first  with  a  layer  of 
onions,  one  whole  clove  stuck  in  each,  then  a  layer  of  soft 
sugar,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  filled. 
Put  this  into  the  oven  overnight,  when  the  fire  is  allowed  to  go 
out.  Repeat  this  every  night  until  the  onions  have  cooked 
down,  and  a  dark  syrup  is  formed.  Two  nights  may  be  suf- 
ficient, according  to  the  fire.  Put  your  jar  aside,  and  use  a 
few  drops  at  a  time  to  color  soups,  gravies,  etc.  There  are 
few  simpler  or  more  satisfactory  receipts  than  this  ;  but  the 
best  color  for  soups  is  that  produced  by  good  materials  and 
long  boiling. 

CLEARING  SOUPS. 

Never  use  whites  of  eggs  for  the  purpose,  unless  as  a  mat- 
ter of  economy  and  convenience,  as  this  process  injures  the 
delicacy  of  the  flavor.  But  if  preferred,  do  so  in  the  follow- 
ing manner :  Stir  into  the  cold  soup,  I  or  more  whites  of 
eggs,  according  to  the  quantity  to  be  clarified  ;  crush  the 
shells  and  add  to  the  soup.  Bring  to  a  boil ;  then  boil 
rapidly  for  10  minutes.  Stand  the  kettle  on  the  hearth  for 
10  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  The  white  of 
I  egg  will  suffice  for  about  3  pints  of  broth. 

The  following  is  recommended  as  being  the  better  method  : 


AMBER   CONSOMME.  7 

To  2  quarts  of  stock,  allow  f-  of  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  chopped 
fine.  Put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  the  stock  and  some  of  its 
vegetables.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Draw  to  side  of  the 
range  and  simmer  gently  for  30  minutes.  Then  strain  twice 
through  a  fine  cloth.  If.  clear  soups  are  much  used  in  your 
household,  one  or  two  bags  made  of  flannel,  which  has  been 
washed  frequently  until  well  shrunken,  will  be  found  very 
useful.  Attach  a  tape  to  each  side  of  the  bag,  and  suspend 
it  by  them  to  two  chairs.  Place  a  bowl  under  to  catch  the 
soup.  T.his  will  save  much  trouble,  and  make  your  stock  of 
the  clearest.     (See  Gilt-edged  Bouillon.) 

AMBER  CONSOMME. 

CONSOMME   DORE. 

1  large  soup  bone,  1  chicken,  cleaned, 

1  slice  of  ham,  1  onion, 

2  sprigs  of  parsley,  %  small  carrot, 
]4  small  parsnip,  %  head  of  celery, 

3  cloves,  1  gallon  of  water, 

Salt  and  pepper,  2  eggs,  whites  and  shells. 

Put  the  chicken,  beef,  and  ham  into  a  pot  with  the  cold 
water,  and  boil  slowly  for  5  hours,  covered.  Fry  the  onion 
in  a  little  butter  or  drippings,  and  add  it  and  all  the  vegeta- 
bles and  all  the  seasonings.  Boil  2  hours  longer.  Strain 
into  an  earthen  bowl,  and  set  away  overnight.  Next  day 
remove  the  fat  from  the  top  ;  take  out  the  jelly,  leaving  the 
thickest  part  of  the  sediment  (which  will  do  to  put  into  a 
thick  soup)  ;  mix  in  the  shells  and  whites  of  eggs.  Boil 
quickly  for  10  minutes  ;  then  place  the  kettle  on  the  hearth 
for  10  minutes  to  settle.  Pour  the  soup  through  the  jelly- 
bag.  It  should  come  out  perfectly  clear,  of  a  very  pretty 
golden  brown  color.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag.  If  the  soup  is 
not  clear,  pass  it  through  again  until  clear.  Use  the  brightest 
and  cleanest  of  kettles,  and  scald  your  sieve  each  time  you 
use  it,  or  the  particles  will  wash  off  again  into  the  soup. 
Serve  for  dinner-parties,  luncheons,  etc.  Garnish  to  taste. 
Do  not  use  any  artificial  coloring. 


8  GOOD-LIVING. 

BROTH  MADE  IN  ONE  HOUR. 

BOUILLON   FAIT   EN   UNE   HEURE. 

I  lb.  of  beef,  Small  piece  of  fat  pork,  chopped, 

I  carrot,  cut  fine,  2  gills  of  cold  water, 

i  onion,    "      "  I  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Put  all  except  the  boiling  water  into  a  stewpan.  Stew 
15  minutes,  until  it  begins  to  cling  to  the  sides.  Then  add 
the  boiling  water.  Boil  45  minutes.  Strain,  squeezing  the 
meat  well.     Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  celery-salt.     Serve. 

ANOTHER  HASTY  BROTH 

Is  made  by  cutting  vegetables  fine,  frying  in  butter,  add- 
ing boiling  water  enough  for  the  soup  ;  salt  and  pepper,  and 
enough  of  Liebig's  Extract  to  give  color  and  strength. 
When  one  is  disappointed  by  the  butcher,  this  is  a  resource 
not  to  be  despised. 

CHICKEN  CONSOMME. 

CONSOMME   DE   VOLAILLE. 

One  old  fowl,  cut  in  pieces,  I  stick  of  celery, 

2  quarts  of  cold  water,  I  onion, 

1  carrot,  Salt  and  pepper. 
1  turnip, 

Simmer  gently,  chicken,  salt  and  water,  until  the  scum 
rises.  Skim.  Add  other  ingredients.  Boil  gently  2  hours. 
Skim  all  fat  and  serve.  Or,  better  still,  set  aside  until  next 
day,  then  all  grease  may  be  more  thoroughly  removed.  For 
invalids,  serve  with  slices  of  toast.  The  chicken  will  serve 
for  many  receipts.  (See  Chicken  Croquettes,  Chicken  Salad, 
etc.,  etc.) 

CONSOMME  A   LA   ROY  ALE. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Their  bulk  of  cream, 

Mix  the  well-beaten  yolks  with  a  little  more  than  their 
bulk  of  cream  or  rich  milk.     Add  salt  and  pepper.     Pour  it 


GERMAN  NOODLE  SOUP.  9 

into  a  small  tin  or  earthen  dish  1  or  2  inches  deep,  with 
straight  sides  ;  place  this  in  a  second  dish  in  which  there  is  a 
little  boiling  water,  and  bake  in  so  moderate  an  oven  that  it 
will  neither  bubble  nor  brown.  Remove  it  from  the  oven 
just  as  soon  as  it  becomes  firm.  Let  it  get  perfectly  cold, 
then  cut  it  in  £-inch  slices,  and  these  again  into  fancy 
shapes  with  a  vegetable  cutter.  Lay  them  in  the  tureen  and 
pour  the  clear,  hot  Consomme  very  gently  over  them.  Allow 
2  gills  of  Consomm6,  or  Gilt-edged  Bouillon  (see  receipts) 
for  each  person. 

CONSOMME   WITH  MACARONI. 

POTAGE  AU   MACARONI. 
%  lb.  of  macaroni,  2  quarts  of  Broth,  or  Consomme. 

Boil  the  macaroni,  broken  in  2-inch  lengths,  in  salted 
boiling  water  until  almost  tender — that  is  10  or  15  min- 
utes ;  drain  very  thoroughly  and  drop  into  boiling  broth  10 
minutes  before  serving.  It  must  be  very  tender,  but  not 
break.     Serve  with  Parmesan  cheese,  grated. 

TAPIOCA    SOUP. 

POTAGE  AU   TAPIOCA. 

4  oz.  of  tapioca,  3  pints  of  Broth. 

Sprinkle  the  tapioca  (which  is  best  when  previously  soaked 
for  a  few  hours)  into  the  boiling  soup.  Stir  frequently.  It 
will  require  about  40  minutes  ;  perhaps  less,  if  soaked  before- 
hand. 

GERMAN  NOODLE  SOUP. 

POTAGE   DE  NOUILLES,  I. 

Prepare  the  Noodles  (see  receipt)  ;  add  them  to  boiling 
Consomme  (see  receipt).  Boil  1 5  minutes.  Serve.  Allow  2 
gills  of  consomme  per  person. 


10  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRENCH  NOODLE  SOUR 

POTAGE   DE   NOUILLES,   II. 

Follow  the  directions  given  above,  using  French  Noodles 
(see  receipt),  and  cooking  them  30  minutes. 

SWEDISH  NOODLE   SOUP. 

POTAGE   DE   NOUILLES,  III. 

Prepare  the  Consomme'  as  above,  adding,  at  the  moment  of 
serving,  Swedish  Noodles  (see  receipts).  , 

CONSOMME    WITH  POACHED  EGGS. 

CONSOMME   AUX   CEUFS   POCHES. 
6  eggs,  3  pints  of  Consomme,  or  Gilt-edged  Bouillon. 

Drop  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  into  boiling  salted  water.  A 
frying-pan  is  best  for  the  purpose.  One  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar  may  be  added  to  the  water.  When  the  eggs  are  firm, 
carefully  remove  with  a  spoon  or  perforated  skimmer ;  lay  in 
cold  water  for  a  moment  while  you  trim  the  edges  evenly ; 
transfer  to  the  tureen  ;  pour  the  boiling  soup  very  gently  into 
the  tureen  and  serve.  The  allowance  is  1  egg  and  2  gills 
of  consomme^  per  person. 

N.B. — Do  not  allow  the  water  to  boil  when  once  the  eggs 
are  in  it,  but  draw  the  pan  to  one  side  of  the  range  and 
cook  rather  slowly  until  firm.  The  jumping  of  the  boiling 
water  makes  the  edges  of  the  eggs  ragged. 

SAGO  SOUP. 

POTAGE  AU   SAGOU. 
2  oz.  of  sago,  3  pints  of  Broth  or  Consomme. 

Wash  well  and  drop  into  boiling  broth.  Boil  1  hour, 
stirring  occasionally. 

N.B. — This  is  improved  by  soaking  the  sago  overnight, 
draining,  and  then  boiling  in  the  soup.  In  this  case,  less 
time  is  required  in  cooking. 


RICE  SOUP.  II 

ARROWROOT  SOUP. 

4  teaspoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  3  pints  of  Broth  or  Consomme. 

Rub  the  arrowroot  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the 
cold  broth  ;  stir  it  into  the  boiling  broth  and  continue  stirring 
for  20  minutes,  until  perfectly  transparent. 

This  excellent  addition  to  clear  soup  is  not  sufficiently  used 
or  appreciated. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

CONSOMME   OU   POTAGE  AU   VERMICELLE. 

1  oz.  of  vermicelli  to  each  person,  2  gills  of  Broth  or  Consomme  to  each 

person. 

Break  the  vermicelli  in  pieces.  Boil  until  nearly  cooked  in 
boiling  water  and  salt.  This  will  require  about  15  minutes. 
Add  it,  when  well  drained,  to  the  boiling  broth.  Boil  until 
perfectly  tender,  20  or  25  minutes  in  all.     Serve. 

SOUP  WITH  ITALIAN  PASTES. 

CONSOMME   OU   POTAGE  AUX   PATES   D'lTALIE. 

Same  rule  and  proportions  as  above.  The  pastes  may 
require  a  little  longer  to  cook. 

RICE  SOUP. 

SOUPE  AU  RIZ. 

4  heaping  tablespoons  of  rice,  3  pints  of  Broth  or  Consomme. 

Wash  the  rice  in  3  waters.  Rub  it  dry.  Put  it  in  a 
saucepan  with  1  pint  of  cold  broth.  When  swelled  and 
heated,  add  another  pint  of  boiling  broth,  and  finally  the  rest 
of  the  boiling  broth,  when  the  rice  is  tender.  This  will  muddy 
the  soup  slightly.  Rice  takes  about  22  minutes  from  the 
moment  when  it  breaks  into  a  boil. 


12  GOOD-LIVING. 

FARINA   SOUP. 

POTAGE   A    LA    SEMOULE. 
2  oz.  of  farina,  3  pints  of  Broth  or  Consomme. 

To  the  boiling  broth  add  the  farina  gradually,  stirring  con- 
stantly with  a  wooden  spoon.     Boil  25  minutes  and  serve. 

JULIENNE    SOUP. 

POTAGE   A   LA   JULIENNE. 

Observe  the  relative  proportions  of  the  following  vege- 
tables : 

X  lb.  of  carrot,  2  oz.  of  leek, 

%  lb.  of  turnip,  2  oz.  of  onion. 

yz  oz.  of  celery, 

Cut  in  thin,  long  shreds,  and  throw  into  a  bowl  of  cold 
water  as  you  cut  them  ;  then  drain.  Fry  in  butter  until 
golden  brown ;  drain  off  the  butter  and  add  a  little  stock 
to  cover ;  let  it  nearly  boil ;  then  add  this  to  the  amount  of 
stock  or  broth  required  and  simmer  gently  for  2  hours. 
Allow  2  gills  of  broth  per  person.  You  may  add  either 
asparagus-tips,  fresh  young  peas,  or  lettuce  cut  into  narrow 
strips ;  but  these  must  be  boiled  apart  until  tender  in  weak 
stock  or  plain  water,  then  added  to  the  soup.  Serve  with 
the  vegetables. 

POTAGE  CROUTE-AU-POT. 

1  turnip,  cut  fine,  8  pieces  of  dried  toast  or  %  rolls, 

1  carrot,     "      "  2  quarts  of  good  Consomme. 

I  stick  of  celery,  cut  fine, 

Parboil  the  vegetables  in  salted  boiling  water.  When  ten- 
der, drain  well  and  add  them  to  1^  quarts  of  boiling  consomme ; 
simmer  until  very  tender.  Meanwhile,  put  the  toasts  into 
a  saucepan  with  enough  strong  consomme'  (reduced  is  even 
better)  to  cover  them.     Simmer  gently  until  the  toasts  have 


CALF'S-HEAD   SOUP.  1 3 

absorbed  all  the  consomme  and  begin  to  dry  up ;  then  add 
a  little  hot  consomme^  to  detach  them  from  the  saucepan. 
Lay  them  in  a  tureen  and  pour  the  soup  with  vegetables 
very  gently  over  them.  Serve  immediately,  before  the 
toasts  begin  to  go  to  pieces.  This  is  one  of  the  most  pop- 
ular and  excellent  of  the  French  soups. 

N.  B. — Follow  the  directions  for  the  toasts  very  carefully. 

CALF'S-HEAD  SOUP. 

1  calf's  head,  1  knuckle  of  veal, 

6  onions,  sliced,  Pepper  and  salt, 

1  teaspoon  of  ground  allspice,  Butter, 

%       "  "        "       cloves,  Lemon  and  sherry. 

FOR   THE   BALLS. 

Brains  of  the  head,  I  onion,  chopped, 

1  tablespoon  of  parsley,  chopped,  Cracker-dust. 

Put  the  head  (well-cleaned,  as  directed  in  receipt  for  Mock- 
Turtle  Soup  No.  I.)  and  knuckle  of  veal  into  a  large  soup- 
kettle  f  full  of  cold  water.  Reserve  the  brains  to  prepare 
later.  Add  to  the  soup-kettle  the  onions  and  simmer  gently 
until  the  veal-knuckle  is  perfectly  cooked  and  tender,  but  not 
in  pieces.  Remove  this  from  the  pot  and  set  aside  to  use 
(see  Browned  Knuckle  of  Veal).  Let  the  calf's  head  con- 
tinue to  boil  until  the  meat  begins  to  fall  from  the  bones ; 
then  take  it  out.  Remove  all  the  bones  and  the  eyes. 
Skin  the  tongue ;  cut  it  and  all  the  meat  into  small  pieces. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  the  spices.  Strain  the  soup ; 
return  to  the  fire  and  thicken  with  flour  that  has  been 
browned  over  the  fire  with  a  little  butter,  allowing  about  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  1  quart  of  soup.  Stir  and  boil 
up.  Add  the  meat ;  bring  it  to  a  boil,  then  pour  all  into  a 
bowl  and  set  away  until  next  day. 

To  make  the  balls,  parboil  the  brains,  chop  the  onion  and 
parsley,  and  stir  all  together  with  a  knife.  Then  make  them 
up  into  small  balls,  with  just  enough  of  the  same  browned 
flour  to  make  them  sufficiently  solid  to  fry.     Dip  them  in 


14  GOOD-LIVING. 

cracker-dust ;  fry  in  butter  until  brown,  and  set  away  until 
required. 

Next  day,  skim  the  fat  from  the  top  of  the  soup,  put  it  on 
the  fire  and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Put  the  balls  into  the  tureen, 
pour  the  boiling  soup  gently  over  them  and  serve.  Each 
guest  adds  lemon-juice  and  sherry  to  his  taste,  for  which 
purpose,  cut  the  lemon  into  small  sections  and  hand  it  with 
the  soup.  This  is  an  old-fashioned  Philadelphia  receipt  and 
highly  recommended. 

MOCK-TURTLE  SOUP  NO.  I. 

SOUPE  A  LA   TORTUE   I. 

I  calf's  head,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

I  lb.  of  calf's  liver,  3  quarts  of  cold  water, 

1  calf's  heart,  4  even  tablespoons  of  flour, 

I  bay-leaf,  I      "  "  mushroom  catsup, 

1  carrot,  1      "  "  Worcestershire  sauce, 

1  onion,  2  hard-boiled  eggs, 

12  cloves,  1  lemon, 

1  turnip,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 

Bunch  of  soup  herbs,  I  gill  of  sherry. 

Have  the  butcher  crack  the  head ;  remove  the  brains. 
Wash  the  head  thoroughly  in  cold  water.  Pour  boiling 
water  through  the  nose  and  throat-passages  until  perfectly 
clean.  Scrape  out  and  wash  very  carefully  the  ears.  Then 
rinse  again  in  cold  water.  The  head  must  be  perfectly  sweet 
and  clean  before  putting  it  down  to  cook.  Put  it  in  a  kettle 
with  the  cold  water ;  put  the  kettle  over  a  moderate  fire. 
When  it  comes  to  a  good  boil,  skim.  After  15  minutes, 
skim  again.  Let  it  simmer,  not  boil  hard,  until  the  meat  is 
quite  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  2  hours.  Remove 
the  head  ;  take  the  meat  from  the  bones,  skin  the  tongue 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Return  the  bones  to  the  kettle  with 
the  vegetables,  cleaned  and  sliced,  also  the  spices,  liver,  and 
herbs.  Simmer  gently  again  for  2  hours.  Strain  and  set 
away  overnight.  Set  aside  the  liver  and  heart  to  cool  with 
the  other  meat.     Next  day  remove  the  fat  from  the  soup. 


MOCK-TURTLE   SOUP.  1 5 

Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan ;  when  melted,  add  the  flour 
and  stir  until  nicely  browned  (not  burned)  ;  then  add  the 
boiling  soup  by  degrees,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  and  stir 
5  minutes.  Cut  the  meat  of  the  head  into  dice,  also  half 
the  liver  ;  add  them  to  the  soup  ;  bring  to  a  boil  once.  Re- 
move the  saucepan  from  the  fire,  and  add  the  catsups,  salt, 
pepper,  and  wine.  Have  the  eggs  and  lemon  sliced  in  the 
tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  them  and  serve.  If  you  wish  to 
add  force-meat  balls,  see  receipt  for  same.  ' 

N.B. — If  the  head  is  a  large  one,  half  of  the  meat  will  be 
sufficient  to  cut  up.  You  can  reserve,  then,  the  tongue 
with  the  brains  to  make  another  dish. 

MOCK-TURTLE   SOUP  NO.  II. 

SOUPE  A  LA  TORTUE  II. 

i  calf's  head,  4  calf's  feet, 

1  gallon  of  cold  water,  4  onions, 

2  carrots,  2  sticks  of  celery, 
Bunch  of  soup  herbs,  1^  gills  of  sherry, 
Juice  of  one  lemon,  Salt  and  cayenne. 

Take  the  head  with  skin  on ;  wash  thoroughly  and  clean 
as  directed  for  Mock-Turtle  Soup  No.  I. ;  remove  brains  and 
tongue,  which  reserve  for  separate  dish.  Put  the  head  and 
calf's  feet  into  a  soup-kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Remove  the 
scum  as  it  rises  and  add  the  vegetables  and  herbs.  When 
boiled,  until  the  flesh  leaves  the  bones  easily  (about  3  hours), 
take  out  the  best  parts  and  press  them  between  2  dishes 
until  cold.  Remove  the  bones  from  the  soup-kettle,  leaving 
the  coarser  parts  of  the  meat.  Simmer  for  3  hours.  Strain ; 
when  cold,  skim  thoroughly. 

Next  day,  cut  the  pressed  meat  into  dice,  and  prepare  Egg- 
balls  (as  per  receipt)  as  garnish  for  the  soup.  Flavor  the 
soup  with  the  sherry  and  plenty  of  cayenne  and  lemon-juice. 
Simmer  with  the  meat  in  for  30  minutes.  If  egg-balls  are 
used,  add  them  only  a  minute  before  serving. 


l6  GOOD-LIVING. 

A    SAVORY  SOUP. 

SOUPE  DE  LA  BONNE  MENAGERE. 

2  large  onions,  ]  3  or  4  sticks  of  celery,  cut  fine, 

2  leeks,  .  _  j  r  •   j  ■  Bones  of  roasted  beef,  veal,  or  chicken, 

>  cut  fine  and  fried  in 

1  carrot,  butter.  Cornstarch  (about  1  teaspoonful), 

I  turnip,  Bunch  of  parsley, 

5  raw  tomatoes  or  1  large  cup  of  stewed,  Sprig  of  thyme, 

Handful  of  cabbage,  cut  fine,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Fry  the  vegetables  as  directed.  When  brown,  add  a  few- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  stew  for  15  or  20  minutes. 
Now  put  them  into  the  soup-kettle  with  the  other  ingredients 
(reserving  the  cornstarch) ;  add  2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
Any  good  bones  may  be  added  or  good  bits  of  meat ;  the 
latter  should  be  cut  fine.  Cover  and  boil  about  4  hours. 
Take  out  the  bones  and  any  stems  of  thyme  or  parsley. 
Stir  in  the  cornstarch,  blended  with  very  little  cold  water ; 
boil  2  or  3  minutes  until  of  the  consistency  of  cream.  When 
the  larder  is  low  this  will  be  found  to  be  a  most  excellent 
soup,  far  more  tasty  than  many  on  which  are  lavished  un- 
limited materials. 

N.B. — 1  cupful  of  mashed  potato  may  be  used  instead 
of  the  cornstarch. 

ECONOMICAL   SOUP  {ENGLISH  RECEIPT). 

%  lb.  of  solid,  lean  meat,  cut  in  dice,  2  oz.  of  drippings, 

%  lb.  of  onions,  cut  in  pieces,  2  oz.  of  salt, 

%  lb.  of  turnips,  "    "        "  ^  oz.  of  brown  sugar, 

2  oz.  of  leeks,        "    "        "  6  quarts  of  water, 

3  oz.  of  celery,       "    "        "  j£  lb.  rice  or  pearl  barley. 

Put  in  a  stewpan  with  the  drippings,  meat,  onions,  and 
sugar ;  stir  until  fried  a  light  brown.  Then  add  turnips, 
celery,  leeks  ;  stir  for  10  minutes  ;  add  1  quart  of  cold  water 
and  the  rice,  and  let  it  heat.  To  this  put  5  quarts  of  boiling 
water ;  stir.  Simmer  5  hours.  Skim  when  the  scum  rises. 
Season  to  taste  and  serve. 


BEEF  AND   OKRA    SOUP.  1 7 

LETTUCE   SOUP. 

POTAGE  AUX   LAITUES. 
i  large  head  of  lettuce,  Pepper  and  salt, 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  Pinch  of  sugar, 

30  drops  of  Tarragon  vinegar,  1  egg, 

1  gill  of  cream,  Dice  of  stale  bread, 

1  teaspoon  of  flour,  3  pints  of  broth  or  water  for  6  persons. 

Chop  up  the  lettuce,  and  stew  it  with  a  lump  of  butter, 
pinch  of  sugar,  and  30  drops  of  Tarragon  vinegar.  Keep 
stirring  and  do  not  let  it  burn.  Add  the  flour,  pepper,  and 
salt.  Break  in  an  egg,  which  stir  well  ;  pour  on  some  weak 
broth  (allowing  2  gills  per  person).  Lay  dice  of  bread  in  the 
tureen.  Add  the  cream  to  the  soup  just  before  you  pour 
the  boiling  soup  over  the  bread.     Serve. 

RUSSIAN  SOUP. 
POTAGE  A  LA  RUSSE. 

1  Spanish  onion,  cut  in  shreds,  Bunch  of  herbs,  powdered, 

1  moderate-sized  white  cabbage,  3  pints  of  stock  for  6  persons, 

cut  in  shreds, 

Fry  the  onions  and  cabbage  in  butter,  being  careful  not 
to  burn ;  drain  and  add  them  to  the  stock,  with  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  blended  with  cold  water.  Boil,  stirring  oc- 
casionally, until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Add  a  squeeze 
of  lemon-juice,  and  serve  with  small  balls  made  as  follows  : 

2  oz.  of  beef,  chopped  very  fine,  1  egg, 

2  oz.  of  suet,        "  "       "  Salt  and  pepper. 

Fry  in  butter ;  place  in  the  tureen  ;  pour  the  soup  over 
them  and  serve. 

BEEF  AND    OKRA    SOUP. 

1  lb.  of  beef  without  fat  or  bone,         %  lb.  of  butter, 
4  quarts  of  cold  water,  1  onion,  sliced, 

2  cups  of  chopped  okra,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  beef  in  small  pieces  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt ; 
fry  it  in  the  soup-kettle  with  the  onion  and  butter  until  very 
brown.  Add  the  cold  water,  and  simmer  1  hour  ;  then  add 
the  okra,  and  simmer  gently  for  3  or  4  hours  longer. 


1 8  GOOD-LIVING. 


WHITE  SOUP. 


Knuckle  of  veal,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Pinch  of  powdered  mace,  i  cup  of  vermicelli, 

i  oz.  of  butter,  i  cup  of  cream, 

4  yolks  of  eggs. 

Put  the  veal  into  a  soup-kettle  and  cover  it  with  cold 
water.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  thoroughly.  Simmer, 
closely  covered,  2\  hours.  Then  strain  it.  Add  seasonings 
and  the  vermicelli ;  boil  slowly  about  1 5  minutes  ;  if  the  ver- 
micelli is  quite  tender  then,  push  the  pot  back  where  the 
boiling  will  cease.  Add  the  butter.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs 
in  the  tureen  with  the  cream,  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  slow- 
ly over  them,  stirring  quickly.     Serve. 

NORMANDY  SOUP. 

1  knuckle  of  veal,  4  quarts  of  cold  water, 

1  quart  of  white  button  onions,  1  quart  of  cream, 

j£  a  baker's  small  loaf,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  2  "  "    flour. 

Put  the  veal  in  a  kettle  with  the  onions  and  water.  Sim- 
mer gently  2  hours.  Add  the  bread  cut  in  slices.  Simmer 
gently  2  hours  longer.  Remove  the  bone  and  press  the 
remaining  ingredients  all  through  a  sieve.  Return  the  soup 
to  the  kettle.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  until 
smooth  ;  stir  this  into  the  boiling  soup  and  continue  to  stir 
until  it  thickens.  Add  the  cream  brought  almost  to  a  boil ; 
add  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve. 

SOUP  A  LA  PEINE  NO.  I. 

SOUPE   A   LA   REINE.      I. 

1%  lbs.  of  chicken,  %  lb.  of  rice, 

l/2  pint  of  cream,  Salt  and  pepper, 

i}i  quarts  of  white  (veal)  stock,  ]/2  a  blade  of  mace, 

1  sprig  of  thyme,  1  shallot  (or  1  clove  of  garlic), 

4  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Clean  and  roast  the  chicken.  When  cold,  cut  off  the 
meat.  Put  the  bones  into  the  white  stock  with  seasonings 
and  well-washed  rice.     Boil  until  the  rice  is  perfectly  tender 


SCOTCH  BROTH.  19 

(35  minutes).  Meanwhile,  chop  the  chicken  fine  and  pound 
it  in  a  mortar ;  then  pass  it  through  a  sieve  or  colander, 
helping  the  process  by  moistening  from  time  to  time  with 
some  of  the  stock.  Strain  the  remainder  of  the  stock, 
pressing  the  rice  through  the  sieve.  Half  an  hour  before 
dinner,  add  the  chicken  to  the  stock  and  heat.  Do  not  let 
it  boil.  Just  before  serving,  add  the  warmed  cream,  salt, 
and  pepper. 

SOUP  A  LA  REINE  NO.  II. 

SOUPE   A   LA   REINE.     II. 

1  large  chicken,  1  gill  of  cream, 

%  lb.  of  boiled  rice,  Salt  and  pepper, 

2  quarts  of  cold  water. 

Roast  the  chicken  ;  remove  all  the  meat  from  the  bones. 
Chop  and  pound  it  to  a  pulp  with  the  rice.  Put  the  bones, 
broken,  and  the  skin  into  2  quarts  of  cold  water  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  for  about  2  hours,  until  it  makes  a  weak 
broth.  Strain  it  and  add  it  to  the  chicken  and  rice.  Now 
press  this  all  through  a  sieve,  and  set  aside  until  required. 
Remove  the  fat  from  the  top  when  cold  ;  heat  the  soup  over 
boiling  water  without  actually  boiling  it,  and,  just  before 
serving,  add  the  cream,  heated,  but  not  boiling.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. 

A  scrag  of  mutton,  1  pint  of  water  to  1  lb.  of  mutton, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  i]4  oz.  of  pearl  barley  to  each  qt., 

2  carrots  cut  in  dice,  1  pint  of  water  for  the  pot, 
1  leek,  sliced,  1  small  cabbage,  shredded, 
Chopped  parsley,  1  turnip  cut  in  dice. 

Trim  off  all  superfluous  fat  from  the  mutton  ;  cut  the 
meat  into  small  dice.  Put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  1  pint  of 
cold  water  to  each  lb.  of  meat  and  1  pint  extra.  Add  the 
salt  and  barley  in  the  above  proportions.  Bring  it  to  a  boil, 
and  skim.  Then  add  the  cabbage,  carrots,  and  leek.  Bring 
to  a  boil,  then  simmer  i£  hours.  Add  the  turnip.  Simmer 
30  minutes.     Remove   all   pieces   of   bone ;  pour   into   the 


20  GOOD-LIVING. 

tureen  ;  sprinkle  chopped  parsley  over  the  top,  adding  salt 
and  pepper  if  necessary.     Serve. 

OX-TAIL   SOUP. 

2  ox-tails,  Bunch  of  soup  herbs, 

1  large  onion,  A  small  slice  of  salt  pork, 

2  carrots,  I  stick  of  celery,  or  I  teaspoon  of  seed, 
Parsley,  4  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

3  whole  cloves,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  tails  at  the  joints,  about  2  inches  long ;  slice  the 
vegetables  ;  mince  the  pork.  Put  the  pork  into  a  stewpan  ; 
when  hot,  add  the  onion.  Fry  until  they  begin  to  color, 
then  add  the  tails.  Let  them  fry  from  5  to  8  minutes, 
browning  on  all  sides.  Cut  each  joint  to  the  bone,  that  the 
juice  may  run  out  in  boiling.  Put  all  into  the  soup-kettle, 
adding  the  boiling  water.  Simmer  gently  but  steadily  about 
4  hours ;  then  add  the  other  vegetables  with  the  cloves 
stuck  into  a  piece  of  onion.  Add  seasoning.  When  the 
vegetables  are  cooked,  the  soup  is  ready  to  serve.  Strain  it 
through  the  finest  strainer.  Serve  1  joint  and  2  gills  of  soup 
for  each  person. 

MULLIGATAWNY  SOUP. 

1  chicken  cut  in  pieces,  4  quarts  of  cold  water, 

3  or  4  whole  cloves,  Parsley, 

1  knuckle  of  veal  (if  available),  Salt  and  pepper, 

Butter,  size  of  a  walnut,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 

3  tablespoons  of  boiled  rice,  1  teaspoon  of  curry-powder, 

1  onion  cut  fine,  1  apple  pared,  cored,  and  cut  in  small  dice, 

1  carrot    "      "  I  stick  of  celery  cut  in  pieces. 

Put  the  chicken,  some  of  the  onion,  carrot,  and  celery, 
with  the  knuckle  of  veal  (or  any  piece  of  veal  or  veal  bones), 
into  the  kettle  with  the  cold  water.  Add  the  cloves  and 
parsley,  and  boil  until  the  chicken  is  nearly  done  (about 
1  hour).  Remove  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  trim  them 
neatly,  to  serve  in  the  soup.  Let  the  veal  continue  to 
simmer  for  3  hours.  Now  fry  the  remainder  of  the  onion, 
carrot,  and  celery  in  the  butter.  When  they  begin  to  brown 
well,  add  the  flour ;  stir  it  for  1  minute  or  2  until  browned, 


CHICKEN  GUMBO  FILE*.  21 

then  add  the  curry-powder,  veal-broth,  and  pieces  of  chicken. 
Simmer  gently  for  I  hour.  Half  an  hour  before  dinner, 
strain  and  skim  the  soup  and  return  it  to  the  fire  with  the 
pieces  of  chicken,  apple,  and  rice.  When  hot,  serve.  The 
chicken  should  not  be  too  young.  A  rabbit  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  the  chicken. 

GIB  LET  SOUP. 

The  giblets,  livers,  etc. ,  of  2  turkeys       i  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg  per  person. 

or  4  chickens,  I  leaf  of  sage, 

I  onion  cut  fine,  Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg, 

1  carrot    "     "  2  tablespoons  of  wine, 
*4,  turnip  "     "  i  tablespoon  of  flour, 

2  cups  of  broth  (chicken  preferred),  Parsley, 
Lemon-juice,  Salt  and  pepper, 

3  quarts  of  boiling  water  or  broth. 

Put  the  butter  in  the  stewpan  with  the  onion.  When 
beginning  to  brown,  add  all  vegetables,  giblets,  etc.,  and 
flour.  Fry  until  the  flour  browns,  but  does  not  burn.  Then 
slit  the  giblets,  etc.,  with  a  knife,  that  the  juices  may  run  out 
in  boiling,  and  put  all  into  the  soup-kettle  with  pepper,  salt, 
sage,  parsley,  and  3  quarts  of  water  or  stock.  Add  any 
bones  or  lean  meat,  cooked  or  raw,  that  you  may  have, 
chicken  being  best.  Simmer  for  5  hours.  Strain.  Mash  1 
liver  fine  ;  add  it  to  the  broth.  Season  with  more  salt  and 
pepper,  lemon-juice  to  taste,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  madeira 
or  port.  If  not  thick  enough,  add  1  teaspoon  of  corn-starch 
blended  with  a  very  little  cold  water  ;  boil  3  minutes.  Have 
ready  in  the  tureen  1  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg  for  each 
person.     Pour  in  the  hot  soup  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO  FILE. 

GOMBO  FILE. 

1  large  fowl,  4  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

2  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  of  lardf 
2  oz.  of  chopped  onion,                                  25  oysters, 
%  pint  of    ' '        okra,  Flour, 

Cayenne  and  salt,  }£  lb.  of  ham  cut  in  dice. 

yi,  teaspoon  of  file  powder. 

N.  B. — The  "file  powder"  made    of    sassafras -buds  is 


22  GOOD-LIVING. 

very  generally  used  in  New  Orleans,  and  is  obtainable,  it  is 
said,  at  herb  shops  or  of  first-class  grocers. 

Clean  and  cut  the  fowl  in  pieces  ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  dredge  with  flour  ;  put  it  into  the  kettle  with  the  butter, 
lard,  and  onion  ;  fry  until  quite  brown,  then  add  the  water. 
Cover  the  pot  and  allow  it  to  simmer,  not  boil,  for  2  hours. 
Add  the  oysters  and  okra,  and  simmer  gently  30  minutes 
longer.  Just  before  serving,  add  the  fil6  powder  and 
cayenne.  N.  B. — Do  not  attempt  to  add  the  sassafras 
while  the  soup  is  on  the  fire  ;  the  result  of  so  doing  would  be 
to  precipitate  the  powder  to  the  bottom  of  the  pot.     Serve. 

OKRA    GUMBO. 

GOMBO   FEVI. 

8  large,  solid   tomatoes,  skinned  and  ^  cup  of  rice,  well-washed, 

cut  up,  X  lb.  chopped  ham  (may  be  omitted 

50  okras,  stemmed  and  cut  in  ^  inch  for  maigre  soup), 

pieces,  Pepper  to  taste   (4  drops  of  Tabasco 

2  large  red  onions,  chopped  (if  white  preferred), 

use  3),  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

y2  sweet-pepper,  chopped,  Salt, 

1  cup  of  broth  or  boiling  water. 

Stew  the  onion  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  butter.  Do  not 
brown  it.  Add  the  above  ingredients  and  stew  very  gently, 
stirring  frequently  to  prevent  the  rice  scorching.  After  20 
to  30  minutes,  add  a  cup  of  broth  or  boiling  water.  (A  great 
improvement  upon  this,  is  to  use  the  liquor  of  tomatoes 
which  have  already  been  stewed.  This  imparts  a  richness  of 
flavor  superior  to  either  the  broth  or  water.)  Stew  from  4  to 
6  hours,  very  gently.  Caution :  Do  not  leave  it  on  too  hot 
a  fire  or  it  will  scorch  ;  stir  frequently  to  prevent  same. 
The  soup  will  be  very  thick  ;  should  you  prefer  it  thinner, 
add  more  broth  or  tomato-juice  as  above.  This  dish  is  much 
better  the  second  day,  as  indeed  are  most  dishes  into  the 
composition  of  which  there  enter  a  variety  of  ingredients. 
Re-heat  it  in  a  china-lined  saucepan,  if  necessary,  and  serve. 


TOMATO   SOUP  NO.  I.  23 

OYSTER    GUMBO. 

GOMBO   AUX   HUITRES. 

To  the  receipt  for  Okra  Gumbo,  add  50  oysters,  which 
have  been  thoroughly  dried  and  put  into  a  hot  pan  with 
melted  butter  and  tossed  until  slightly  browned.  This 
requires  a  very  hot  frying-pan  and  takes  several  minutes  to 
dry  the  oysters  out  sufficiently  to  brown  them. 

CRAB    GUMBO   NO.  I. 

GOMBO   AUX   CRABES.    I. 

To  the  receipt  for  Okra  Gumbo,  add  soft-shelled  crabs 
fried  in  butter  and  cut  in  quarters  or  halves,  according  to 
their  size.  Be  careful  to  remove  the  sand-bags  before  cook- 
ing.    Allow  2  pieces  of  crab  to  each  person. 

CHICKEN  GUMBO. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Okra  Gumbo,  using  chicken- 
broth  instead  of  other  liquid  to  thin  the  soup.  Add  dice  of 
the  chicken  which  was  used  for  the  broth.  These  should  be 
added  to  the  soup  only  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  that 
they  may  not  become  unsightly  or  go  to  pieces. 

TOM  A  TO  SOUP  NO.  I. 

PUREE   DE   TOMATES. 

1  quart  of  well-flavored  broth,  Sprig  of  thyme, 

1  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes,  %  cup  of  rice,  well-washed, 

Salt,  pepper,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Put  all  together  and  boil  until  the  rice  becomes  very  soft 
and  imparts  a  creamy  consistency  to  the  soup,  which  will 
take  about  \\  hours.  Strain  and  serve  with  Croutons  (see 
receipt).     Excellent. 


24  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  MA  TO  AND  MA  C A  RON  I  SOUP. 

PUREE  DE  TOMATES  AU  MACARONI. 

Make  a  Tomato  Soup  No.   I, 
small   macaroni   cut  in   inch    pieces,   and  boiled   in   salted 
boiling  water  for  25  minutes.     Simmer  5  minutes  and  serve. 

TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  QUENELLES. 

PUREE  DE  TOMATES  AUX  QUENELLES. 

To  the  receipt  for  Tomato  Soup  No.  1,  add  at  the  moment 
of  serving  ^  a  pint  or  more  of  Chicken  or  Veal  Quenelles 
(see  receipts). 

TOMATO  SOUP  WITH  NOODLES. 

PUREE   DE   TOMATES   AUX   NOUILLES. 

To  the  receipt  for  Tomato  Soup  No.  I,  add  at  the 
moment  of  serving  £  a  pint  of  Swedish  Noodles  (see 
receipt). 

OF  PUREES  IN  GENERAL. 

As  this  term  is  used  in  three  senses,  it  is  necessary  to  de- 
fine what  is  meant  by  each.  All  purees  are  made  by  boiling 
or  stewing  vegetables  in  broth  or  water,  passing  the  mixture, 
when  cooked,  through  a  sieve. 

If  it  is  to  be  used  as  a  vegetable,  it  should  be  almost  solid, 
as,  for  instance,  puree  of  potatoes,  which  is  nothing  more  nor 
less  than  soft  mashed  potatoes. 

If  it  is  to  be  used  as  soup,  the  pulp,  prepared  as  above,  is 
diluted  with  stock,  milk,  or  water  to  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream,  as  pease  soup. 

If  it  is  to  be  used  as  sauce,  the  consistency  varies  with  the 
material  employed,  but  may  be  described,  as  a  rule,  as  being 
thinner  than  the  vegetable  and  thicker  than  the  soup,  as 
tomato  sauce.     Taste  and  experience  must  regulate  this. 

Soup  purees  do  not  keep,  usually,  more  than  twelve  hours 
in  moderately-warm  weather,  and  not  much  longer  in  winter. 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP.  2$ 

Cream  is  an  important  addition  to  these,  as  are  also  eggs  and 
butter,  to  impart  smoothness  and  richness.  (See  receipt  for 
Liaison  of  Eggs  and  Cream.) 

Soups  of  this  kind  may  be  made  of  : 


Carrots, 

Barley, 

Onions, 

Rice, 

Turnips, 

Rice  and  tomatoes, 

Jerusalem  artichokes, 

Sorrel, 

Green  peas, 

Asparagus, 

Dried  peas, 

Celery, 

Beans — black,  white,  or  red, 

Potatoes, 

Lentils, 

Lima  beans. 

Besides  combinations  of  : 

Carrots,  turnips,  and  onions,  Potatoes  and  onions, 

Limas  and  tomatoes,  Turnips,  potatoes,  onions,  etc. 

Always  serve  with  Croutons  (see  receipt). 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 

CREME   D'ASPERGES. 

30  spears  of  asparagus,         •  }4  teaspoon  of  butter, 

3  tablespoons  of  cream,  Salt  and  pepper, 

3  pints  of  stock  (or  milk),  1  teaspoon  of  flour. 

Cut  the  points  from  the  asparagus  about  \  an  inch  long  ; 
cook  the  rest  in  boiling  water  until  perfectly  tender ;  drain  ; 
rub  the  pulp  through  a  colander  ;  add  a  little  salt.  Bring 
the  stock  to  a  boil.  Blend  together  the  butter  and  flour  ; 
stir  them  into  the  boiling  stock.  Add  the  asparagus  pulp 
and  boil  about  15  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Meanwhile, 
boil  the  tips  separately  in  boiling  water  for  about  1 5  min- 
utes, until  tender.  Drain  perfectly,  and  place  them  in  the 
tureen.  Stir  the  cream  into  the  soup  and  pour  it  immedi- 
ately into  the  tureen.  It  must  not  boil  after  the  cream  is 
added.  This  soup  may  be  colored  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
spinach-juice,  but  this  is  not  obligatory.  Serve  without 
croutons,  as  the  tips  are  sufficient  garnish. 


26  GOOD-LIVING. 

CRECY  SOUP  NO.  I. 

POTAGE   A   LA   CRECY.   I. 

4  carrots  (the  redder  the  better),  cut  fine,  Sprig  of  thyme, 

2  large  onions,  cut  fine,  Bunch  of  parsley, 

1  turnip,  "  3  cloves, 

2  sticks  of  celery,  "  Salt  and  pepper, 
Butter,  size  of  an  egg,  I  teaspoon  of  corn-starch, 
I  pint  of  new  milk,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Having  cleaned  and  cut  up  the  vegetables,  put  them  into 
a  frying-pan  with  the  butter  (or  part  sweet  drippings)  and 
sugar.  Fry  until  they  begin  to  brown  slightly  ;  then  pour 
in  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Simmer  io  min- 
utes ;  then  turn  all  into  the  soup-kettle,  adding  all  the  other 
ingredients  except  the  corn-starch  and  milk  ;  add  about  I 
quart  of  boiling  water  ;  cover  and  simmer  gently  for  about 
2  hours  ;  the  vegetables  must  be  perfectly  soft.  Mash  all 
through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire  with  the  milk.  There 
should  now  be  2  quarts  in  all.  When  boiling,  stir  in  the 
corn-starch  blended  with  a  very  little  cold  water  or  milk. 
Boil  2  or  3  minutes,  and  serve  immediately  with  Croutons 
(see  receipt).     N.  B. — The  carrots  must  be  mashed  very  fine. 

CRECY  SOUP  NO.  II. 

POTAGE   A   LA   CRECY.    II. 

4  very  red  carrots,  Salt  and  pepper, 

2  potatoes,  2  sticks  of  celery, 

2  onions,  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut. 

Boil  the  vegetables  perfectly  tender  in  3  pints  of  water. 
When  soft,  mash  them  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire 
and  boil.  Add  the  butter.  When  boiling,  add  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  corn-starch  blended  with  a  very  little  cold  water  ;  stir 
and  boil  2  or  3  minutes.  Serve  with  Croutons  (see  receipt). 
This  is  further  improved  by  the  addition  of  Liaison  (see 
receipt). 


RICE   SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT.  2? 

POTATO  SOUP. 

POTAGE    PARMENTIER. 

6  or  8  potatoes,  Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg, 

2  onions,  cut  in  pieces,  i  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  the 
onions  and  about  3  pints  of  cold  water.  Bring  to  a  boil.  In 
about  35  minutes,  when  the  vegetables  are  very  tender,  pass 
the  whole  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire.  Add  season- 
ings and  butter.  When  boiling,  add  the  cream  and  serve 
immediately  with  Croutons  (see  receipt). 

The  addition  to  the  above  of  liaison  of  cream  and 
eggs  is  a  further  improvement.  For  variations  of  the  above, 
see  Of  Purees  in  General. 

GREEN-PEA    SOUP. 

POTAGE   A    LA   D'ARTOIS. 

1  quart  of  young  green  peas,  2  quarts  of  good  stock, 
Bunch  of  parsley,  Pepper, 

2  young  onions,  Salt. 

Boil  the  peas  until  quite  tender  in  boiling  water  with  the 
onions  cut  fine,  and  the  parsley.  This  will  require  about  25 
minutes.  Drain.  Rub  all  through  a  coarse  sieve  ;  add  them 
to  the  boiling  stock.  Do  not  boil  after  the  peas  are  added. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  hot  with  small  Crou- 
tons (see  receipt).  If  required  to  be  kept  hot,  stand  it  in  a 
kettle  of  boiling  water  (bain-marie). 

RICE  SOUP  WITHOUT  MEAT 

RIZ   AU    MAIGRE. 

4  heaping  tablespoons  of  rice,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 

3  pints  of  water,  Pepper, 
Butter,  size  of  a  walnut,  Salt. 

Wash  the  rice  in  3  waters.  Rub  dry.  Put  it  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  1  pint  of  cold  water.     When  swelled,  add  1  pint  of 


28  GOOD-LIVING. 

boiling  water;  and  when  quite  tender,  the  remaining  pint  of 
boiling  water.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  Rub  up  the  yolks  of 
eggs  with  a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  When  smooth, 
stir  in  carefully  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  boiling  rice-water ; 
then  pour  the  eggs  and  cream  into  the  saucepan,  stirring 
very  briskly.  Draw  aside  and  stir  for  2  or  3  minutes.  Do 
not  allow  the  soup  to  boil  when  once  the  eggs  are  added. 

CREME  DE  RIZ. 

Prepare  as  above,  rubbing  the  rice  through  a  sieve.  Then 
add  eggs  and  cream. 

MILK  SOUP. 

SOUPE  AU  LAIT. 

I  quart  of  milk,  Salt  and  sugar  to  taste, 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  Dice  of  stale  bread. 

Put  the  dried  crusts  into  the  soup-tureen.  Bring  the 
milk  to  a  boil.  Add  the  salt  and  sugar.  Rub  up  the  yolks 
of  eggs  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  milk  or  water.  When  the 
soup  is  boiling,  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  stir  it  very  care- 
fully into  the  eggs  and  milk.  Return  to  the  corner  of  the 
range  where  it  will  not  boil,  and  stir  for  about  4  minutes 
until  slightly  thickened.  Pour  over  the  dried  crusts  and 
cover.  Stand  for  5  minutes  and  serve.  N.  B. — If  boiled 
after  the  addition  of  the  eggs,  the  soup  will  curdle. 

ONION  SOUP  NO.   I. 

SOUPE   AUX   OGNONS. 

4  onions,  sliced,  4  oz.  of  butter, 

2  oz.  of  flour,  1  quart  of  milk, 

1  quart  of  water,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Slices  of  stale  bread,  Grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter  until  golden  brown  and 
tender.     Sprinkle  with  flour.     Add  milk,  water,  and  season- 


ONION  SOUP  NO.  III.  29 

ings.  Boil  10  minutes.  Put  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  on  a 
tin  in  the  oven  for  5  minutes,  or  until  perfectly  dry.  Then 
lay  these  in  layers  in  the  soup-tureen  with  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  between.  Pour  the  soup  gently  over  this  without 
straining.  Cover  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  5  minutes,  to 
allow  the  cheese  to  melt  and  the  bread  to  absorb  the  soup. 
If  preferred,  the  onions  may  be  pressed  through  a  sieve  and 
thickened  with  a  Liaison  (see  receipt). 

ONION  SOUP  NO.   II. 

PUREE   SOUBISE. 

6  onions,  1%.  pints  of  cream, 

1)4,  oz.  butter,  Salt, 

Pepper,  2  oz.  flour, 

iyz  pints  of  stock  or  boiling  water,  Nutmeg. 

Boil  the  onions  in  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  and 
dry  on  a  cloth.  Put  them  on  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  with  I 
oz.  of  butter  till  slightly  colored.  Add  all  the  other  in- 
gredients, except  |-  an  oz.  of  butter.  When  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  press  through  the  sieve  ;  return  the  soup  to  the  fire ; 
add  the  rest  of  the  butter,  and  serve. 

ONION  SOUP  NO.   Ill 

SOUPE   AUX   OGNONS. 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg,  I  pint  of  boiling  water, 

2  large  potatoes,  mashed  fine,  2  or  3  large  onions,  sliced  thin, 

Salt  and  pepper,  %  cup  of  flour, 

1  quart  milk,  Dice  of  bread  or  toast. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter  (or  drippings)  until  reddish. 
Add  the  flour.  Stir  until  browned  slightly.  Do  not  burn. 
Now  pour  in  gradually  the  boiling  water ;  stir  perfectly 
smooth  ;  add  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  well  and  boil  I  minute. 
Then  pour  it  into  the  soup-kettle  and  stand  at  the  back  of 
range.  Before  serving,  add  to  the  soup  the  milk  warmed 
and  rubbed  up  with  the  mashed  potatoes  until  they  are  a 


30  GOOD-LIVING. 

smooth  paste.  Stir  well.  If  necessary,  add  salt  and  pepper. 
Simmer  a  few  moments.  Have  ready  the  pieces  of  toast  or 
bread  in  the  tureen.  Pour  in  the  hot  soup.  Cover  and  let 
stand  5  minutes  in  a  warm  place,  then  serve. 

TOMATO   SOUP  NO.   II. 

POTAGE   AUX   TOMATES. 

2  quarts  of  pure  tomato-juice,  I  gill  of  rice,  well  washed, 

2  onions,  cut  fine,  4  cloves, 

8  allspice,  Sprig  of  thyme, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Pinch  of  sugar  to  taste. 

The  juice  should  be  taken  from  tomatoes  that  have 
stewed  2  hours.  Add  the  other  ingredients  ;  boil  I  to  \\ 
hours.  Strain.  It  should  now  be  as  thick  as  cream  (from 
the  rice).  If,  however,  it  should  not  be  thick  enough,  add  I 
teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  blended  with  very  little  cold 
water,  and  boil  for  2  minutes.  Serve  with  Croutons  (see 
receipt). 

This  is  a  most  excellent  soup,  and  in  summer,  when  the 
vegetable  is  plentiful,  not  an  extravagant  one. 

Instead  of  Croutons  may  be  added  Swedish  Noodles  or 
Quenelles  (see  receipts). 

TOMATO  BISQUE. 

BISQUE  DE  TOMATES. 

I  quart  of  strained  stewed  tomatoes,  Salt, 

I  quart  of  new  milk,  boiling,  Pepper, 

i  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  i  heaping  teaspoon  of  corn-starch. 

When  the  strained  stewed  tomatoes  are  heated,  add  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  When  they  no  longer 
fizz,  add  the  boiling  milk  and  seasonings.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
and  stir  in  the  corn-starch  blended  with  very  little  cold 
water.  Boil  2  or  3  minutes  and  serve.  It  should  be  as 
thick  as  rich  cream.  Croutons  should  be  served  at  the  same 
time. 


BLACK  {OR    TURTLE}  BEAN  SOUP.  3 1 

Or,  boil  a  cupful  of  vermicelli  in  salted  boiling  water  for 
15  minutes,  till  tender ;  drain  well  and  serve  in  the  soup.  In 
this  case  do  not  serve  croutons.  The  above  soup  is  made 
richer  and  more  delectable  by  the  addition  of  \  a  cup  of 
cream  and  1  egg  beaten  together  in  the  tureen.  Pour  the 
boiling  soup  over  these,  stirring  briskly.  If  thickened  with 
corn-starch,  the  latter  is  not  requisite. 

PEASE  SOUP. 

PUREE   DE    POIS   SECS. 

i}4  pints  of  dried  green  peas,  I  cup  of  good  milk  or  cream, 

Bunch  of  parsley  and  celery,  Salt  and  pepper, 

2  onions,  Ham-bone. 

Put  the  peas  to  soak  for  5  or  6  hours,  if  you  can  spare 
the  time,  otherwise  put  them  on  in  the  corner  of  the  range, 
with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  allow  to  heat 
very  gradually.  Add  in  the  onions  cut  in  pieces,  herbs,  and 
the  ham-bone  (when  not  for  maigre  soup).  Boil  until  the  peas 
are  perfectly  soft,  throwing  in  from  time  to  time  a  gill  of  cold 
water  if  the  peas  have  not  been  previously  soaked.  When 
perfectly  tender,  remove  the  ham-bone,  and  press  all  the 
rest  through  a  sieve.  Add  the  salt  and  pepper.  Return  to 
the  fire  to  heat,  and  just  before  serving,  add  the  rich  milk  or 
cream.  This  should  make  2  quarts  of  soup.  Serve  with 
Croutons  (see  receipt).     Time  about  5  hours. 

BLACK  {OR  TURTLE)  BEAN  SOUP. 

1  pint  of  small  black  beans,  2%  quarts  of  cold  water, 

2  large  onions,  Butter,  trie  size  of  a  walnut, 
Salt  and  pepper,  1  lemon,  sliced, 

1  gill  of  sherry  or  red  wine,  2  hard-boiled  eggs, 

Sprig  of  thyme,  Cayenne. 

Wash  the  beans  well  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  several 
hours.  Put  them  down  with  the  quantity  of  water  men- 
tioned, the  onions  cut  in  quarters,  a  little  salt  and  thyme, 


32  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  let  them  simmer  gently  for  3  to  4  hours,  until  perfectly 
tender  ;  then  press  all  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire. 
There  should  now  be  2  quarts.  Add  the  butter,  more  sea- 
sonings, a  little  cayenne,  and  just  before  serving  add  the 
wine.  Have  ready  in  the  soup-tureen  \  a  lemon  cut  in  thin 
slices,  the  eggs  sliced,  and  the  following  balls  : 

2  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  cup  of  dried  bread-crumbs, 

Grated  lemon-rind  and  juice,  I  teaspoon  of  finely-chopped  parsley, 

1  yolk  of  raw  egg,  Cayenne. 

Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg, 

Mix  all  well  together.  Make  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nut- 
meg ;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter.  Put  these  in  the 
tureen  and  pour  the  boiling  soup  over  all.  N.  B. — You  may 
add  with  advantage  a  small  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  blended 
with  cold  water  ;  boil  for  2  or  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly ; 
serve. 

RED-BEAN  SOUP. 

PUREE   A  LA   CONDE. 
Proceed  exactly  as  for  Lentil  Soup. 

LENTIL  SOUP. 

PUREE   OR   POTAGE   A    LA   CHANTILLY. 

1  pint  of  dried  lentils,  2  quarts  of  cold  water, 

I  onion,  minced,  Bunch  of  parsley, 

Sprig  of  thyme,  I  bay-leaf, 

Salt  and  pepper,  i  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Wash  the  lentils.  Soak  them  overnight  in  lukewarm 
water.  Drain.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  cold  water. 
Let  it  come  very  gradually  to  a  boil,  then  set  it  back  and 
simmer  gently  I  to  2  hours.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan. Fry  in  it  the  onion,  parsley,  thyme,  and  bay-leaf  until 
brown.  Add  these  to  the  soup.  Boil  i£  hours  longer.  If 
the  lentils  are  perfectly  tender  at  this  point,  press  the  whole 
through  a  colander.     Return  to  the  fire ;  add   seasonings. 


SORREL   SOUP.  33 

Boil  up  once  and  serve  with  croutons.  Or,  when  the  soup  is 
ready  to  serve,  beat  up  I  egg  in  the  tureen  and  pour  the 
boiling  soup  in  very  gradually  at  first,  stirring  constantly. 
Serve  as  directed. 

WHITE-BEAN  SOUP. 

PUREE    A   LA  DUSTAN. 
Proceed  exactly  as  for  Pease  Soup. 

SORREL  SOUP. 

POTAGE  A    LA   "BONNE    FEMME,"    OR   SOUPE    A     L'OSEILLE. 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg,  3  sprigs  of  parsley,  sliced  fine, 

3  leaves  of  lettuce,  sliced  fine,  i  onion,  sliced  fine, 

I  pint  of  sorrel,  sliced  fine,  Pinch  of  nutmeg, 

Pepper  and  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

3  quarts  of  boiling  water,  I  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 

4  eggs>  *  CUP  °f  mashed  potato. 

Put  the  vegetables  and  butter  into  a  saucepan.  Cover 
and  stew  gently  for  io  minutes,  then  add  the  flour,  mixing 
well.  Pour  in  gradually,  stirring  always,  3  quarts  of  boiling 
water.  Mix  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  a  little  of  the  cream 
or  milk  in  the  tureen.  Put  the  rest  of  the  cream,  rubbed 
smooth  with  the  potato,  into  the  soup.  Add  seasonings. 
Have  prepared  some  neat  dice  of  toast  or  stale  bread.  Pour 
some  of  the  boiling  soup  over  the  eggs  in  the  tureen  and 
mix  well.  Put  in  the  pieces  of  stale  bread,  then  add  the  rest 
of  the  soup.  Cover  and  stand  5  minutes  in  a  warm  place. 
Then  serve.  Or  the  soup  may  be  pressed  through  a  sieve 
before  dishing. 

Stock  may  be  used  instead  of  the  water.  Chopped  cher- 
vil may  be  added  ten  minutes  before  removing  from  the 
fire.  Many  persons  consider  the  soup  greatly  improved  by 
rubbing  the  pieces  of  bread  or  toast  first  with  raw  onion. 


34  GOOD-LIVING. 

SUMMER  MAIGRE   SOUP. 

POTAGE   A    LA   PAYSANNE. 

Hearts  of  6  lettuces,  cut  in  pieces,  Chopped  parsley, 

2  large  onions,  cut  in  pieces,  3  lumps  of  sugar, 

3  cucumbers,  pared  and  sliced,  X  ^.  butter, 

1  pint  of  young  peas  to  be  added  later,  Salt, 

2  quarts  of  older  peas,  Pepper. 

Stew  all  together  I  hour,  stirring  often,  having  ready  2 
quarts  of  older  peas  boiled  in  I  gallon  of  water.  Put  them 
through  a  sieve  back  into  the  water  in  which  they  have  boiled. 
Add  to  this  the  other  ingredients.  Simmer  \\  hours.  When 
done  remove  the  onions  or  not,  as  you  prefer.  The  English 
receipt  adds  :  "  Dip  in  a  sprig  of  mint  before  it  is  taken  off 
the  fire."     Serve. 

ECONOMICAL  MAIGRE  SOUP. 

2  quarts  of  green  peas,  2  onions,  sliced, 

Bunch  of  fine  herbs,  2  quarts  of  hot  water, 

Salt  and  pepper,  I  tablespoon  of  sugar, 

I  pint  of  new  milk,  Mashed  potatoes  to  taste. 

Stew  for  30  minutes  ;  add  the  potatoes  ;  pass  all  through 
a  sieve  ;  return  to  the  fire,  and  add,  lastly,  the  milk.  Stir 
until  perfectly  smooth  and  hot.     Serve  with  croutons. 

WHITE  MAIGRE  SOUP. 

SOUPE   BLANCHE. 

1  pint  of  new  milk,  2  yolks  of  eggs. 

2  pints  of  boiling  water,  Salt, 

3  tablespoons  of  flour,  Pepper. 

Boil  the  water  with  some  celery  or  onion  for  flavoring. 
Remove  the  vegetables.  Boil  the  milk  and  water  together, 
reserving  some  cold  milk  with  which   to   blend  the  flour. 


SOUP  MAIGRE. 


35 


When  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  flour  and  boil  8  minutes, 
stirring  always.  Have  ready  in  the  tureen  the  yolks  of  eggs 
well  beaten  with  a  spoon.  When  the  soup  is  ready,  pour  it 
very  gently  on  the  eggs,  stirring  quickly.  Add  celery-salt, 
if  you  like,  and  asparagus  tips,  small  dice  of  carrots  or  young 
peas  as  a  garnish.  These  latter  should  be  boiled  apart, 
drained,  then  added.     Serve  with  croutons. 


WINTER   OKRA    SOUP. 


1  can  of  tomatoes. 

2  onions,    chopped   fine  and  fried  in 

butter, 
X  lb.  of  ham,  fat  and  lean,  cut  in  dice, 


Small  piece  of  red  pepper-pod  without 

seeds, 
I  gill  of  rice  well  washed, 
i  can  of  New  Orleans  olcra. 


Stew  all  but  the  okra  together  for  3  hours,  stirring  fre- 
quently. Add  about  2  cups  of  boiling  water  to  prevent 
it  becoming  too  thick.  Ten  minutes  before  serving,  add  the 
okra.  Boil  up  thoroughly  once  and  serve.  It  should  be 
rather  thicker  than  Pease  Soup.  You  may  add,  if  you  like, 
oysters  fried  in  butter,  omitting  the  ham  for  fast  days. 


SOUPE  MAIGRE. 


1  quart  of  dried  peas, 

2  large  onions, 

I  head  of  celery, 

1  carrot, 

2  turnips, 
Sprig  of  mint, 
Handful  of  spinach, 

3  quarts  of  cold  water, 


Stew  together 
until  quite 
soft,  then 
pass  through 


1  lettuce,  sliced, 

Piece  of  butter,  size  of  a  walnut, 

2  lumps  of  sugar, 
Asparagus  tips  if  in  season. 


Put  the  pulp  and  water  back  on  the  fire  with  the  lettuce, 
butter,  and  sugar.  Boil  quickly  for  about  1 5  minutes.  The 
asparagus  tips  should  be  boiled  apart  until  tender,  drained, 
and  added  when  dishing  the  soup. 


36  GOOD-LIVING. 

VEGETABLE   SOUP. 

PUREE   DE   LEGUMES. 

1  turnip,  sliced,  %  oz.  of  flour, 

1  carrot,      "  3  oz.  of  butter, 

2  onions,     ' '  1  teaspoon  pepper, 
4  oz.  celery,  sliced,  I  sprig  of  parsley, 

3  quarts  and  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  Bunch  of  celery  leaves, 

2  even  tablespoons  of  salt. 

Put  the  vegetables  into  2  quarts  of  the  water  and  boil 
until  perfectly  tender,  from  1  to  2  hours,  by  which  time  the 
water  will  have  absorbed  a  good  deal.  Rub  all  through  a 
sieve  ;  add  the  3  pints  of  boiling  water.  Return  to  the  fire, 
and  when  it  boils,  add  the  butter  rubbed  smooth  with  the 
flour  and  moistened  with  a  little  of  the  hot  soup ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  and  stir  2  or  3  minutes  and  serve. 
A  parsnip  may  also  be  used.  One  gill  of  rich  cream  may  be 
added  just  before  serving. 

LOBSTER  BLSQUE. 

BISQUE   DE   HOMARD. 

3  quarts  of  veal  stock,  2  oz.  of  butter, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  cup  of  hot  cream,  1  boiled  lobster  and  its  coral, 

I  tablespoonful  of  oil,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan,  and  when  it  melts  stir  in 
the  flour ;  stir  and  let  it  cook  but  not  color.  Add  by  de- 
grees the  cream  and  I  pint  of  stock,  stirring  constantly  to 
avoid  lumps ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  broth.  Add  the 
coral  of  the  lobster,  which  has  been  previously  dried  in  the 
oven  and  pounded  fine  in  a  mortar.  Cut  the  meat  of  the 
lobster  into  dice,  and  3  hours  before  it  is  required  for  use, 
dress  it  with  oil,  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Before  serving 
the  soup,  add  the  pieces  of  lobster,  and  heat  thoroughly. 
It  should  be  pale  pink  and  of  the  consistency  of  cream. 
Serve  with  croutons.  For  maigre  soup,  substitute  new  milk 
for  stock  ;  omit  oil  and  vinegar,  using  instead  a  pinch  of  mace. 


MACARONI  SOUP.  37 

TO  OPEN  CLAMS. 

Wash  the  shells  clean  ;  place  them  in  a  clean  roasting- 
pan  on  the  hinge  end.  Pour  a  little  boiling  water  into  the 
pan  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  shells  open  easily. 
The  juice  is  thus  collected  in  the  pan  and  may  also  be  used. 

BISQUE   OF  CLAMS. 

50  clams,  Liquor  of  same, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  Pinch  of  mace, 

2  tablespoons  of  flour,  Milk,  pepper. 

Strain  the  liquor  of  the  clams  and  put  down  to  boil. 
Wash  the  clams  free  from  shells  and  grit.  Scald  them  in  their 
own  liquor.  In  3  minutes  take  the  clams  out  and  chop  them 
very  fine.  Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  blended,  but  not  brown.  Stir  in  by  degrees 
the  boiling  liquor,  and  when  perfectly  smooth  set  aside  to  keep 
hot.  Rub  the  clams  with  a  potato-masher  through  a  colan- 
der or  coarse  sieve,  taking  care  to  press  all  the  fat  and  soft 
part  through,  but  none  of  the  hard  part.  Stir  all  the  soft 
part  into  the  saucepan  in  which  you  have  the  soup.  Add  a 
a  little  milk  or  a  smaller  quantity  of  cream.  With  the  liquor 
there  should  be  at  least  I  quart  in  all.  If  too  thick,  thin 
with  milk  to  taste.  Season  with  a  pinch  of  mace  and 
pepper.  Be  careful  about  adding  salt,  as  the  clams  are 
generally  salt  enough.  Boil  for  5  minutes,  stirring  frequently, 
and  serve  with  croutons. 

MACARONI  SOUP. 

SOUPE   AU    MACARONI. 

%  lb.  macaroni,  2  tablespoons  each,  grated  Gruyere  and  Parmesan, 

I  quart  of  boiling  milk,  ]/z  teaspoon  of  curry-powder, 

White  Roux  (see  receipt),  Salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  the  macaroni  15  minutes  in  salted  boiling  water. 
Drain  the  macaroni ;  add  it  to  the  milk ;  boil  10  minutes. 
Blend  some  of  the  boiling  milk  with  the  roux  (butter  and 
flour),  and  curry  ;  stir  all  in  with  the  soup  ;  add  cheese ; 
boil  3  minutes,  season  and  serve. 


38  GOOD-LIVING. 

OYSTER   SOUP. 

SOUPE   AUX   HUITRES. 

1  quart  of  oysters  and  their  liquor,  Salt, 
White  Roux  (see  receipt),  Milk, 
Pinch  of  ground  mace,                                       Cayenne. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  liquor  until  half-cooked.  Skim 
them  out  and  set  aside.  Strain  the  liquor.  Add  to  it 
enough  boiling  milk  to  make  one  quart.  When  this  boils, 
stir  it  into  the  roux  (see  receipt)  allowing  about  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  to  the  quart  of  soup.  Stir  and  boil  3 
minutes.  Add  seasonings  and  the  oysters ;  boil  a  few 
minutes  longer  until  the  oysters  are  quite  firm,  and  serve. 

SA  VORY  MAIGRE  SOUP. 

6  potatoes,  4  turnips,  or  2  large, 

2  carrots,  2  onions, 

2  mushrooms  (if  available),  1  head  of  celery, 

1  large  slice  of  bread,  1  saltspoon  of  salt, 

6  quarts  of  water,  $£         "        "  pepper, 

2  teaspoons  of  Harvey's  sauce,  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Clean  and  slice  the  vegetables.  Toast  the  bread  brown. 
Put  all  into  the  soup-kettle  with  cold  water.  Boil  gently  for 
3  hours,  until  the  vegetables  are  perfectly  tender.  Mash 
all  through  a  coarse  sieve  back  into  the  water.  Return  to  the 
fire.  Melt  an  even  tablespoon  of  butter  until  it  begins  to 
brown  slightly,  then  stir  it  into  the  soup.  Add  the  Harvey 
sauce,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  serve  with  Croutons  (see 
receipt). 

FISH  STOCK. 

COULIS   DE   POISSON. 

Bones  and  trimmings  of  raw  fish,  2  carrots,  sliced, 

2  onions,  sliced,  2  quarts  of  cold  water, 
Rind  of  half  a  lemon,  Bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

Clean  and  slice  the  vegetables  ;  put  all  in  a  saucepan  and 
simmer  gently  for  2  hours.     Skim  and  strain.     Or  the  vege- 


LIMA   BEANS  AND  TOMATO   SOUP.  39 

tables  and  fish  may  first  be  fried  in  butter ;  then  boiled  as 
above.  This  broth  is  very  useful  for  many  dishes,  as  will  be 
seen  by  other  receipts.  It  is  especially  good  for  boiling  bass 
or  other  fine  fish  which  is  to  be  served  cold  with  mayonnaise 
or  tartare  sauce. 

FISH  SOUP. 

4  onions,  sliced,  Parsley,  thyme,  3  bay-leaves,  winter 

6  tomatoes,  ' '  savory,  tied  in  a  bunch, 

Salad  oil,  Pepper  and  salt, 

3  pints  of  stock  or  water,  4  tablespoons  of  flour, 

About  6  small  slices  of  fish,  1  wine-glass  of  white  wine. 

Fry  the  onions  in  oil  till  light  brown  ;  add  the  tomatoes 
and  all  other  ingredients  except  the  fish,  blending  the  flour 
with  a  little  of  the  cold  stock.  Boil  30  minutes ;  then  put  in 
the  slices  of  fish ;  as  soon  as  they  are  firm,  remove  the  herbs, 
and  serve  the  fish-soup  with  crusts  of  toast  in  the  tureen. 
Add,  if  you  like,  \  a  teaspoon  of  curry-powder  with  the 
flour.  Almost  any  kind  of  fish  or  lobster  may  be  used.  For 
maigre  soup,  substitute  water  for  the  stock. 

CRAB  GUMBO  NO.  II. 

Follow  the  directions  for  Chicken  Gumbo  File,  substi- 
tuting 12  or  18  small  soft-shell  crabs  (according  to  size)  for 
the  chicken.  Prepare  them  as  for  frying ;  sprinkle  them  with 
flour ;  throw  them  into  the  boiling  lard  which  is  flavored  with 
onion  ;  add  the  bits  of  ham,  and  all  the  details  of  the  former 
receipt,  omitting  the  oysters.  For  a  maigre  soup,  add  instead 
of  the  ham,  a  \  pound  of  butter. 

LIMA  BEANS  AND  TOMATO  SOUP. 

To  the  receipt  for  Tomato  Soup  No.  I.,  add  enough  lima 
beans,  boiled  and  mashed  through  a  colander,  to  make  the 
soup  of  the  consistency  of  cream.     Delicious. 

N.  B. — The  broth  used  may  be  very  weak.    Omit  the  rice. 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  FRYING. 

Particular  attention  is  called  to  the  fact  that  every  thing 
depends  upon  the  manner  in  which  an  article  of  food  is  fried, 
as  to  whether  it  is  most  unwholesome  or  comparatively  in- 
nocuous. There  is  no  process  of  cooking  which  can  be  made 
to  render  food  more  indigestible  than  this  same  process  of 
frying ;  therefore  it  is  of  paramount  importance  that  it  should 
be  most  carefully  studied  and  well  understood.  The  sense  of 
the  matter  is  this:  If  an  article  to  be  fried  is  put  into  luke- 
warm or  even  quite  hot  fat,  whether  lard,  drippings,  or  but- 
ter, the  same  article  warms  with  it,  drawing  in  at  every  pore 
the  greasy  fluid  ;  whereas,  if,  on  the  contrary,  the  fat  is 
heated  to  boiling-point,  that  point  being  much  higher  for 
fatty  fluid  than  for  water,  the  moment  the  article  to  be  fried 
is  plunged  into  it,  the  intense  heat  closes  every  pore,  and,  it 
being  instantly  seared,  cannot  absorb  an  atom  of  the  fat ; 
when  removed  from  the  grease  and  drained  of  all  moisture 
that  may  remain  on  the  surface  (which  may  be  accomplished 
by  placing  the  article  upon  absorbent  paper)  there  is  really 
no  grease  remaining  to  tax  the  digestive  powers.  A  well- 
fried  croquette,  for  instance,  should  not  leave  a  trace  of 
grease  upon  the  cut  paper  or  folded  napkin  upon  which  it 
is  served  ;  a  well-fried  Saratoga-chip  may  be  taken  up 
by  gloved  fingers,  and  not  a  trace  of  grease  appear  on 
the  glove.  The  secret  of  all,  then,  is  to  have  the  lard  or 
drippings  sufficiently  deep  in  the  pan  to  serve  for  whatever 
frying  may  be  necessary  at  the  one  time  ;  not  to  be  obliged 
to   add    (Hibernian    fashion)    a    great   lump    of    cold   lard, 


GENERAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR  PRYING.  4 1 

"  because  there  is  n't  enough  to  fry  all  "  you  may  happen 
to  have.  This  checks  the  boiling  of  the  lard  and  immedi- 
ately the  article  immersed  in  it  absorbs  the  fat  again. 
Have  plenty  of  lard  and  have  it  boiling.  These  are  the  two 
rules  most  necessary  to  observe.  Do  not  be  misled  by  hear- 
ing the  lard  spit  and  crackle  ;  that  is  no  evidence  of  boiling  ; 
it  is  simply  throwing  off  some  little  drop  of  moisture.  It 
must  heat  slowly  at  first,  and  then,  being  drawn  forward  on 
the  range,  be  brought  to  a  boil.  When  lard  boils,  it  is  per- 
fectly still,  until  it  begins  to  smoke ;  at  this  point  there  is 
danger  of  burning,  so  that  it  should  not  be  allowed  to  smoke 
long,  but  be  pushed  aside  a  little  for  a  moment  or  two.  To 
test  it  when  boiling,  drop  in  one  drop  of  water  which  should 
make  a  slight  explosion  ;  or  drop  in  a  bit  of  the  soft  part  of 
bread.  If  the  lard  is  ready,  the  bread  will  begin  to  color  al- 
most instantly.  When  the  article  is  fried,  skim  it  out,  drain- 
ing off  all  fat ;  lay  it  upon  a  sheet  of  brown  paper  in  the 
open  mouth  of  the  oven,  or  upon  the  corner  of  the  range, 
where  it  will  keep  very  hot  while  drying ;  should  it  be  chilled, 
the  fat  will  harden  upon  it  instead  of  draining  off.  Pure 
lard  is  recommended  for  frying  croquettes,  etc. ;  butter 
should  seldom  be  used,  except  for  sauteing,  as  it  burns 
and  blackens. 


FISH. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS. 

TO  BOIL  FISH  NO.  I. 

Wash  the  fish  thoroughly  inside  and  out.  Wipe  dry  with 
a  clean  cloth.  Trim  the  fins  close  to  the  body  with  scissors. 
Have  in  a  kettle  on  the  fire  enough  water  to  cover  the  fish 
entirely.  It  should  be  well  salted — that  is,  from  4  to  8  oz. 
of  salt  and  £  oz.  of  saltpetre  to  every  gallon  of  water.  The 
water  must  boil  when  the  fish  is  put  in.  It  is  almost  impos- 
sible to  boil  fish  handsomely  without  a  regulation  fish-kettle, 
with  its  drainer  inside.  When  the  fish  is  cleaned  and  the 
water  boiling,  lay  the  fish  on  the  drainer  and  set  the  drainer 
in  the  kettle.  Allow  about  8  minutes  to  the  pound  for  a  large, 
thick  fish,  and  5  minutes  to  the  pound  for  small,  thin  fish, 
counting  from  the  time  when  the  water  begins  again  to 
boil  after  the  fish  is  put  in.  It  should  boil  very  gently,  in 
order  not  to  crack  the  skin.  You  can  tell  when  it  is  done  by 
the  flesh  parting  very  easily  from  the  bone.  A  little  vinegar 
is  a  good  addition  to  the  water.  When  done  lift  out  the 
drainer,  set  it  across  the  kettle,  and  drain  the  fish  dry.  Serve 
on  a  folded  napkin,  garnished  with  parsley  and  sliced  lemon. 
Always  serve  also  an  appropriate  sauce. 

TO  BOIL  FISH  NO.  II. 

There  come  times   and    seasons   when    it    is   difficult   to 
vary    one's    supply    of    fish,    and    the   only    resource    from 
monotony  is  to  vary  the  mode  of  cooking  the  fish  at  our 
42 


FISH  BOILED  AU  COURT  BOUILLON.  43 

command.  It  is  therefore  suggested,  if  you  have  only  a 
common,  rather  tasteless  fish  to  offer,  to  boil  it  in  the 
following  manner  : 

Put  down  the  fish-kettle  with  boiling  water  sufficiently 
deep  to  cover  the  fish  to  be  cooked.  In  this  put  2  or  3 
onions,  1  bay- leaf,  sprig  of  thyme,  6  or  8  cloves,  twice  as 
many  allspice,  lemon-peel,  salt,  a  bit  of  red  pepper-pod,  and 
lastly,  when  the  water  has  boiled  long  enough  to  extract  the 
flavor  of  the  various  condiments,  add  about  1  tablespoonful 
of  vinegar.  In  this  place  the  strainer  containing  the  fish  neat- 
ly dressed  (see  To  Boil  Fish  No.  I.).  Boil  according  to  the 
size  of  the  fish,  allowing  from  5  to  8  minutes  per  pound. 
It  is  easily  ascertained  when  it  is  done  by  the  flesh  parting 
readily  from  the  bone.  Remove  the  strainer ;  drain ;  dish 
the  fish  on  a  folded  napkin ;  dress  with  sliced  lemon  and 
plenty  of  parsley,  to  avoid  drawing  too  close  attention  to 
the  kind  of  fish  it  is.  Serve  with  a  Tartare  Sauce  or  with  a 
Cucumber  Sauce  (see  receipts),  and  you  will  find  your  dish 
as  highly  relished  as  though  you  offered  your  guest  a  rare 
and  fine  fish. 

FISH  BOILED  AU  COURT  BOUILLON. 

POISSON   CUIT  AU    COURT   BOUILLON. 


1  stick  of  celery,  cut  fine, 

Butter, 

I  carrot, 

Parsley, 

1  onion,                      " 

3  or  4  cloves, 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

Pepper-corn, 

%  pint  of  vinegar, 

Salt. 

Fry  the  vegetables  in  the  butter.  Add  all  the  ingredients 
to  the  water  in  the  fish-kettle  and  boil  15  minutes.  Skim. 
Add  salt.  It  is  now  ready  for  use.  Rub  the  skin  of  the 
fish  (which  has  been  prepared  as  above)  with  lemon-juice 
to  keep  it  white.  Put  it  into  the  boiling  fish-broth, 
which  must  cover  it  well.  Simmer  very  gently,  allowing 
5  to  10  minutes  per  pound.  When  cooked,  drain  dry, 
and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin  with  parsley  and  lemon  and 
a  sauce. 


44  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  BOIL  A    TROUT  OF  ONE  POUND. 

When  properly  scaled  and  dressed  and  washed  inside  and 
out,  wrap  it  in  a  napkin  ;  drop  it  into  well-salted  boiling 
water.  Boil  only  4  or  5  minutes.  Drain  well  and  serve  on 
a  folded  napkin,  with  parsley  and  lemon  and  Maitre  d'Hotel 
Sauce  (see  receipt). 

TO  STEAM  A  FISH. 

Having  washed  and  dressed  the  fish,  secure  the  tail  in  its 
mouth ;  lay  it  on  a  plate  and  pour  over  it  \  pint  of  vinegar, 
pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  stand  one  hour  in  the  ice-box  ;  then 
pour  off  the  vinegar ;  put  it  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water  ; 
cover  tightly  and  steam  20  minutes  for  a  medium-sized  fish. 
When  done,  the  flesh  will  part  easily  from  the  bone.  Drain 
it  well  and  serve  as  above  with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce  (see 
receipt). 

TO  BROIL  FISH. 

When  it  is  very  hot,  grease  the  gridiron  thoroughly. 
Clean  and  split  the  fish  (unless  small)  and  lay  it  upon  the  grid- 
iron. If  the  fish  is  small,  broil  over  a  quick,  clear  fire ;  for  a 
large  fish,  the  fire  should  be  more  moderate,  or  the  outside 
will  be  charred  before  the  inside  is  cooked.  Turn  constant- 
ly, keeping  the  skin  side  longest  against  the  fire.  When 
done  through  (when  the  flesh  will  part  easily  from  the  bone), 
loosen  the  fish  with  a  knife  from  the  broiler ;  turn  the  hot 
dish  over  the  fish,  and  with  a  quick  movement  turn  the  two 
back  again  dexterously.  A  broken  fish  is  most  unappetizing, 
therefore  it  must  be  very  carefully  dished.  Butter  it  gener- 
ously ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and,  generally,  a  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley  and  juice  of  \  a  lemon. 

TO  FRY  FISH. 

Cut  the  fins  off ;  wash  the  fish  and  dry  it  inside  and  out. 
If  a  thick  fish,  cut  three  gashes  diagonally  across  the  back; 
if  small,  leave  it  whole.     To  dry  it  thoroughly,  powder  it 


STEWED   FISH  EN  MATELOTE.  45 

over  with  flour.  Then  dip  it  in  egg,  and  then  in  fine  sifted 
bread-crumbs,  cracker-dust,  or  corn-meal,  as  you  may  prefer. 
Have  the  lard  heating  meanwhile,  and  when  fiercely  hot,  lay 
in  the  fish.  In  3  or  4  minutes  (for  a  medium-sized  fish)  turn 
it  over  carefully  with  the  cake-turner.  The  moment  it  is 
thoroughly  done  (when  the  flesh  leaves  the  bone  readily)  re- 
move it  from  the  pan  to  a  piece  of  clean  brown  paper.  Then 
serve  it  on  a  folded  napkin.  Nothing  so  spoils  fried  fish  (or, 
indeed,  any  thing  fried)  as  to  let  it  stand  in  the  pan  a  moment 
after  it  is  sufficiently  cooked. 

Follow  the  above  rules  carefully,  and  you  will  not  find 
fried  fish  the  dyspeptic  bugbear  it  is  credited  with  being. 
(See  General  Directions  for  Frying.) 

TO  FRY  BROOK  TROUT  OR  OTHER  SMALL  FLSH. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish,  and  let  them  lie  a  few  minutes 
wrapped  separately  in  a  clean,  dry  towel ;  they  must  be 
perfectly  dry  inside  as  well  as  outside  ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  roll  in  corn-meal.  Fry  them  in  a  mixture  of 
-|-  butter  and  §  lard.  Drain  on  a  sieve  or  coarse  brown 
paper,  and  serve  hot  on  a  folded  napkin.  Be  sure  the  lard  is 
boiling.     (See  General  Directions  for  Frying.) 

STEWED  FISH  EN  MA  TELOTE. 

MATELOTE   DE   POISSON. 

3  or  4  lbs.  of  any  firm  fish,  1  cup  of  boiling  water, 

2  or  3  onions,  sliced,  1  cup  of  claret  or  white  wine, 

Pepper  and  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  butter, 

Pinch  of  ground  cloves,  mace,  and  allspice,  2  teaspoons  of  flour. 

Cut  the  fish  across  in  steaks,  about  one  inch  thick.  Set 
aside  until  wanted.  Meanwhile,  boil  the  onions  in  very  little 
water  until  perfectly  tender.  When  cooked,  drain  off  the 
water  and  add  pepper,  salt,  spices,  the  boiling  water,  and 
wine.  Lay  in  the  slices  of  fish.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil, 
add  in  the  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together   and  blended 


46  GOOD-LIVING. 

first  with  a  little  of  the  sauce.  Stir.  The  fish  will  require 
about  10  minutes  to  boil.  When  thoroughly  cooked,  dish 
the  steaks  in  a  circle  ;  strain  the  sauce  over  them  and  serve 
garnished  with  large  Croutons  of  stale  bread,  cut  either  in 
cubes  or  diamonds  (see  receipt). 


FISH  STUFFED  AND  BAKED. 

4  or  5  lbs.  fish,  whole,  Butter, 

2  cups  of  boiling  water,  I  cup  claret, 

2  or  3  tablespoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  Flour, 

]4.  lemon,  Dressing, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Trim  the  fins  of  the  fish  and  wipe  clean  and  dry,  inside 
and  out.  Fill  the  fish  with  dressing,  and  sew  it  up  with 
coarse  thread.  For  the  dressing,  take  dried  bread-crumbs 
enough  to  fill  the  fish  ;  put  a  large  lump  of  butter  into  the 
frypan  ;  let  it  melt,  but  not  cook ;  lay  the  bread-crumbs  in, 
stirring  around  only  long  enough  for  the  crumbs  to  absorb 
the  butter.  To  this  add  £  an  onion  chopped  very  fine  and 
fried  also  in  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a 
little  lemon-juice,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt.  When  the 
fish  is  sewn  up,  lay  it  in  a  roasting-pan  just  long  enough  to 
fit  it  ;  put  bits  of  butter  all  over  the  top  and  the  boiling 
water  in  the  pan.  Season  it.  Bake  for  about  20  minutes, 
basting  frequently ;  then  add  the  wine,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  lemon-juice,  and  bake  until  done,  basting  frequently. 
This  will  take  about  45  minutes  in  all,  but  will  depend  upon 
the  size  and  thickness  of  the  fish.  When  the  fish  is  done 
(the  flesh  leaving  the  bone  easily),  remove  it  to  a  hot  dish 
and  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon.  Put  the  pan  on  top  of 
the  range.  Add  a  little  more  water  if  necessary,  and  I  gill 
of  claret.  When  boiling,  stir  in  about  I  teaspoonful  of 
butter  and  2  of  flour,  rubbed  smooth  and  blended  with  some 
of  the  sauce.  Boil  up  for  2  minutes ;  strain  over  the  fish, 
and  serve. 


BASS   STEWED   WITH  TOMATOES.  47 


FISH  SALAD. 

6  lbs.  striped  bass,  cut  in  steaks, 

1  onion, 

Bones  of  the  same, 

Butter, 

6  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  together, 

Salt, 

3  whites  of  eggs,       "           " 

Cayenne, 

Juice  of  3  lemons. 

Cut  the  fish  into  steaks,  reserving  all  the  bones,  which  you 
put  down  in  1  quart  of  boiling  water  with  the  onion  fried 
slightly  in  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  In  this  boil  the  fish 
steaks,  which  remove,  when  firm,  to  a  platter.  Strain  the 
liquor  in  which  the  fish-bones,  etc.,  have  boiled  ;  squeeze 
into  it  the  lemon-juice ;  add  a  little  cayenne  to  taste,  and 
then  very  carefully  add  the  beaten  eggs.  The  safest  way  to 
do  this  successfully,  is  to  remove  the  boiling  liquid  from  the 
fire ;  let  it  stand  a  moment ;  have  a  little  cold  water  mixed 
with  your  eggs,  and  pour  these  gently  into  the  hot  liquid, 
stirring  briskly  all  the  time.  Return  to  the  fire  until  it 
thickens,  but  without  boiling,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  this 
over  the  fish  and  set  away  to  cool.  Dress  with  neatly  cut 
strips  of  beet  or  red -pepper,  and  trim  the  edge  with  small 
lettuce  leaves.      Excellent. 

COLD  BOILED  BASS,  SAUCE  TAR  TARE. 

BAR,    SAUCE   TARTARE. 

Boil  the  fish  Au  Court  Bouillon  (see  receipt) ;  serve 
very  cold,  with  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipt)  and  dressed 
cucumbers.     Delicious  in  warm  weather. 

BASS  STEWED  WITH  TOMATOES. 

BAR    AUX    TOMATES. 

1  quart  of  tomatoes,  4  lbs.  of  fish, 

2  onions,  sliced,  Salt, 
\y2  gills  sweet  oil,  Pepper. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  (peeled)  for  30  minutes.  Cut  the  fish 
(any  firm,  white-fleshed    fish   will   do)  into    square   pieces, 


48  GOOD-LIVING. 

removing  all  the  bones.  Fry  the  sliced  onions  in  the  sweet 
oil.  Lay  the  fish  cutlets  in  the  saucepan  with  the  onions 
and  sweet  oil ;  strain  the  tomatoes  over  this  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cover  closely  and  stew  gently  for  I  hour. 
It  must  cook  slowly,  or  the  fish  will  go  to  pieces.  Dish  the 
cutlets  neatly  in  a  circle  and  pour  the  tomatoes,  slightly 
thickened  with  corn-starch,  over  them.     Serve. 


WHITEBAIT. 

Whitebait  must  be  perfectly  fresh,  and  must  be  kept 
in  iced  or  salted  water  until  required. 

When  you  are  ready  to  cook  them,  drain  them  off  and 
throw  upon  a  clean,  dry  cloth.  Pat  very  gently  with  the 
cloth  to  absorb  whatever  water  may  remain.  Have  a  second 
cloth  ready  with  about  2  good  handfuls  of  flour  for  I  pound 
of  whitebait.  Put  the  whitebait  into  this  and  toss  them 
from  side  to  side  until  every  little  fish  has  its  separate  and 
individual  covering  of  flour.  Then  turn  them  upon  a  coarse 
sieve  for  the  extra  flour  to  sift  out.  Meanwhile,  have  on 
the  fire  a  saucepan  with  lard  2  inches  deep.  Bring  to  a  boil, 
and  test  with  a  bit  of  bread  to  see  if  it  is  just  right  before 
you  put  in  the  fish.  Now  put  about  \  of  the  pound  at 
a  time  into  a  frying-basket,  so  that  they  shall  not  be  too 
crowded.  Lay  the  frying-basket  in  the  lard  until  the 
little  fish  curl — that  is,  about  2  minutes.  Turn  them  out 
upon  a  clean  piece  of  brown  paper  in  a  hot  place  while  you 
fry  the  rest.  Sprinkle  pepper  and  salt  over  all  as  evenly  as 
you  can.  Have  a  napkin  folded  and  baked  in  the  oven  until 
very  hot.  When  the  fish  are  cooked  and  the  fat  thoroughly 
drained  off,  lay  them  inside  of  the  hot  napkin.  They  should 
be  eaten  immediately.  If  kept  standing,  will  become  tough 
or  limp.  Serve,  at  the  same  time,  cayenne  and  a  lemon  cut 
in  quarters  ;  also  small  tartines  made  of  the  best  brown 
bread,  cut  as  thin  as  a  wafer  and  buttered  with  the  freshest 
of  butter. 


CUTLETS  OF  SHAD   A    L'OSEILLE.  49 

BAKED  SHAD  NO.  I. 

ALOSE    FARCIE   I. 

Make  a  light  and  delicate  dressing  as  indicated  in  the 
receipt  for  Fish  Stuffed  and  Baked.  Stuff  the  shad ;  sew  it 
up ;  have  a  large  sheet  of  white  paper  buttered.  Fold  up  the 
fish  in  it,  twisting  the  ends  securely  to  keep  in  both  butter 
and  steam.  Put  in  a  baking-pan  and  set  in  the  oven.  It  will 
not  require  basting  and  will  be  done  in  about  45  minutes  if 
of  medium  size.  Remove  the  paper  and  serve  with  a  Maitre 
d'Hotel  or  other  fish-sauce.  N.  B. — The  oven  should  be 
moderate. 

BOILED  SHAD. 

ALOSE  A  LA  MAITRE  D'HOTEL,  OR  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE. 

Have  the  water  boiling  in  the  fish-kettle.  Salt  it  strongly, 
and  put  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  if  liked.  Dress  the  fish 
neatly  (see  Directions  for  Boiling  Fish),  lay  it  on  the  strainer, 
and  place  it  in  the  boiling  water.  Be  careful,  in  dishing,  not 
to  break  the  skin.  Dish  on  a  folded  napkin  and  garnish  with 
parsley  and  sliced  lemon.  It  will  take  about  20  to  25  minutes 
to  cook.  Serve  with  this  a  Maitre  d'Hotel  Sauce  (see  receipt), 
or  a  Sauce  Hollandaise.  If  a  roe-shad,  the  roe  should  be 
dipped  in  flour  after  having  been  parboiled  (about  10  min- 
utes) ;   it  is  then  fried  in  butter  until  firm  and  golden  brown. 

CUTLETS  OF  SHAD  A  L'OSEILLE. 

FILETS   D'ALOSE  A   L'OSEILLE. 

Follow  receipt  for  Fish  Cutlets  Fried,  and  serve  on  a  bed 
of  sorrel  made  into  a  smooth  puree  and  dressed  with  plenty 
of  butter.     This  is  the  way  the  French  prepare  shad. 
4 


50  GOOD-LIVING. 

BAKED  SHAD  NO  II. 

ALOSE    FARCIE   II. 

Leave  the  head  on  and  do  not  split  the  fish.  Make  a 
force-meat  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  cold  ham  or  bacon 
minced  fine,  sweet  marjoram,  pepper,  salt,  mace  or  pinch 
of  ground  cloves.  Moisten  with  a  raw  egg.  Having  dressed, 
washed,  and  dried  the  fish,  stuff  the  inside  with  this,  reserving 
a  little  to  rub  over  the  outside,  having  first  rubbed  the  fish 
with  yolk  of  raw  egg.  Place  the  fish  in  a  deep  pan,  securing 
its  tail  in  its  mouth.  Pour  into  the  bottom  of  the  pan  a  little 
water ;  add  a  gill  of  port  wine  or  claret  and  a  piece  of  butter 
rolled  in  flour.  Baste.  Bake  it  well  (45  minutes),  and  send 
it  to  table  with  the  gravy  poured  over  it.  Garnish  with 
lemon.  Any  fish  may  be  baked  in  the  same  manner.  A 
large  fish  of  10  or  12  lbs.  weight  will  require  two  hours'  bak- 
ing. (The  average  market  shad  weighs  about  4  lbs.)  The 
time  first  indicated  is  for  a  fish  of  moderate  size. 

COLD  BOILED  SHAD,  SAUCE  TARTARE. 

ALOSE,    SAUCE   TARTARE. 

Boil  as  directed  To  Boil  Fish,  or  Au  Court  Bouillon.  Serve 
very  cold  with  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

PLANKED  SHAD. 

A  thick  oak  board  is  prepared  for  this  purpose  with  wooden 
pegs.  Spread  the  fish  open  on  the  board  and  secure  it  with 
the  pegs.  Place  the  board  before  a  clear  fire,  the  end  resting 
in  a  shallow  pan,  in  which  there  is  a  little  salt  and  water 
to  baste  the  toasting  fish.  When  almost  cooked,  baste  also 
with  melted  butter  and  a  little  walnut  catsup.  Serve  on  the 
board  (if  a  handsome  one),  or,  when  dishing,  add  a  little  wal- 
nut catsup  to  the  gravy  and  pour  it  over  the  fish.  Serve 
with  pickled  walnuts. 


SHAD-ROE   CROQUETTES.  5 1 

PICKLED  OR  SOUSED  SHAD. 

Put  the  fish-kettle  on  the  fire  with  plenty  of  water  to  cover 
your  fish.  When  boiling,  throw  in  I  cupful  of  salt.  Lay  the 
fish  on  the  drainer  in  the  kettle  and  boil  about  30  minutes 
(according  to  the  size  of  the  fish).  Take  out  the  fish,  drain 
it  very  thoroughly  and  let  it  get  cold.  Meanwhile  take 
some  of  the  water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled ;  add  to  it 
whole  cloves,  whole  allspice,  whole  mace,  and  a  piece  of  red 
pepper-pod  without  the  seeds.  Boil  until  the  water  is 
strongly  flavored  with  the  spices.  Cut  the  fish  in  large 
pieces ;  lay  these  in  a  stone  crock ;  mix  from  \  to  \  strong 
vinegar  with  the  spiced  liquor,  and  pour  over  the  fish  until  it 
is  quite  covered.  Lay  a  cloth  over  the  mouth  of  the  jar  ;  put 
the  cover  on  and  set  it  away.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  in  one 
or  two  days,  and  will  keep  in  a  cold  place  for  a  fortnight, 
if  the  fish  is  always  well  covered  by  the  liquor. 

Many  other  kinds  of  fish,  such  as  bluefish,  rockfish,  etc., 
etc.,  are  excellent  treated  in  the  same  manner.  This  makes 
an  excellent  relish  for  luncheon. 

SHAD-ROE  CROQUETTES. 

2  shad-roes,  1  tablespoon  of  lemon-juice, 

%  pint  cream,  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  medium  tablespoon  chopped  parsley, 

2  medium  tablespoons  of  flour,  Whites  of  2  eggs  for  dipping, 

Salt,  pepper,  Sifted  bread-crumbs, 

X  grated  nutmeg,  Cayenne. 

Wash  the  shad-roes  ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  salted 
boiling  water  ;  cover  and  simmer  1 5  minutes.  Remove  from 
the  fire  ;  take  off  the  fine  skin  and  mash  them.  Bring  the 
cream  to  a  boil.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  over  the 
fire,  but  do  not  brown ;  stir  in  gradually  the  boiling  cream. 
Boil  3  minutes,  until  very  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire  and, 
while  still  boiling,  stir  in  the  2  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  to  this 
all  the  other  ingredients ;  mix  well  and  spread  on  a  dish 
to  cool.     When  cold,  flour  your  hands  and  form  into  cro- 


52  GOOD-LIVING. 

quettes  1x2}  inches.  Dip  in  egg  first,  then  in  fine  crumbs. 
Let  stand  at  least  1  hour  in  the  ice-box  ;  then  fry  in  boiling 
lard  until  golden  brown.  See  General  Directions  for  Frying. 
When  cooked,  lay  the  croquettes  upon  a  folded  paper  to 
drain  perfectly  dry.  Serve  on  a  fancy-cut  paper  or  a  folded 
napkin,  garnished  with  parsley  and  lemon.  Hand  at  the 
same  time  a  Sauce  Tartare  (see  receipt).     Delicious. 

FRIED  SMELTS. 

EPERLANS    FRITS. 

As  smelts  are  not  opened,  but  cleaned  through  the  gills,  it 
is  important  that  they  should  be  perfectly  fresh.  They  spoil 
very  easily.  The  head  should  be  kept  on  except  in  certain 
receipts,  where  it  will  be  mentioned  to  remove  them. 

Dip  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs  or  corn-meal.  Stand  aside 
for  an  hour  or  more,  if  time  permits.  Have  lard  in  the  frying- 
pan.  Bring  it  to  a  boil.  See  General  Directions  for  Frying. 
Lay  in  the  fish  and  fry  gold  color,  which  will  take  about  5 
minutes,  or  less.  Dry  on  a  sieve  or  paper  in  the  open  oven 
door.  Serve  on  a  folded  napkin,  arranged  two  and  two  at 
right  angles.    Serve  with  lemon  cut  in  quarters  and  cayenne. 

BROILED  SMELTS. 

EPERLANS   GRILLES. 

Remove  the  heads.  Split.  Remove  backbone.  Lay  on  a 
greased  broiler.  Broil  5  minutes.  Butter.  Serve  with  lemon 
cut  in  quarters  and  cayenne.     Delicious. 

BAKED  SMELTS. 

Remove  the  heads.  Split.  Dip  the  smelts  in  melted  but- 
ter and  then  in  flour.  Lay  on  a  pan  in  the  oven.  Bake  8  to 
10  minutes.    Serve  with  a  lemon  cut  in  quarters  and  cayenne. 


FISH  CUTLETS.  53 

SMELTS  WITH  MA  YONNAISE. 

EPERLANS,    SAUCE   MAYONNAISE. 

Fry  the  smelts  as  directed.  Serve  with  a  Mayonnaise 
Sauce  (see  receipt).  These  are  excellent  eaten  cold,  with 
the  sauce. 

STEWED  SMELTS. 

Remove  the  heads.  Lay  in  a  china  bake-dish.  Prepare  a 
sauce  of  Fish-Stock  (see  receipt),  or  veal-stock,  chopped 
onions,  capers,  parsley  and  thyme,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
little  white  wine.  When  boiling,  pour  this  over  the  fish  and 
bake  until  tender,  which  will  be  in  about  10  minutes.  Serve 
in  the  same  dish. 

FISH  PUDDING  (SCANDINA  VIAN). 

Take  a  custard  of  eggs,  milk,  flour,  and  butter,  allowing  5 
or  6  eggs  to  1  quart  of  milk,  which  has  been  slightly  thick- 
ened with  flour.  The  eggs  must  be  added  to  the  milk  when 
it  is  removed  from  the  fire,  and  stirred  briskly  and  steadily. 
Have  some  boiled  cod  freed  from  bones  and  chopped  up 
fine.  Stir  it  into  the  custard ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  steam  in  a  covered  mould  for  2  hours.  Serve  with 
Hollandaise  or  Lobster  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

FISH  CUTLETS. 

FILETS    DE    POISSON. 

Cut  the  fish  in  square  pieces  or  in  slices  across  the  back. 
If  square,  remove  all  bones.  Dry,  dip,  and  fry  as  directed ; 
or,  dip  in  Batter  (see  receipt),  and  fry  in  deep-boiling  lard. 
See  General  Directions  for  Frying.  Be  sure  the  lard  is 
boiling.  When  fried  gold  color  either  way,  drain  till  dry 
on  brown  paper,  then  serve  on  a  folded  napkin  with  a  quan- 
tity of  parsley  or  cresses  and  some  slices  of  lemon.  Serve 
with  the  cutlets  a  sauce — either  tomato,  mayonnaise,  tartare, 
etc. 


54  GOOD-LIVING. 

STEWED  EELS,  (LONDON  COOKLNG-SCHOOL). 

%  cup  of  butter,  4  small  onions,  chopped  fine, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  cups  of  stock, 

1  gill  of  port,  2  bay-leaves, 

1  large  or  2  small  eels,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  butter  into  a  stewpan  ;  when  melted,  add  the 
onions  ;  cook  till  light  brown ;  add  the  flour,  stirring  till 
well  blended.  Then  add  the  stock  (or  water  for  a  fast-day), 
wine,  bay-leaves,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the  eels  cut  in  2-inch 
lengths.  Cover  tightly  and  stew  1 5  minutes.  Serve  on  a 
hot  platter  with  large  croutons  or  neat  pieces  of  toast. 

EELS  EN  MA  TELOTE. 

ANGUILLES   EN   MATELOTE. 

2  lbs.  eels,  2  oz.  butter, 

yi  pint  button  onions,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 

1  onion,  10  cloves, 

2  tablespoons  vinegar,  Bouquet  of  he/bs, 
1  pint  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 
)i  saltspoon  of  pepper,  1         "        of  butter, 

1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1  gill  of  wine,  red  or  white, 

Croutons. 

Clean  the  eels  ;  lay  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water  ; 
cut  them  in  2-inch  lengths  ;  put  them  over  the  fire  in  cold 
water  and  salt  and  bring  them  to  a  boil.  Add  1  onion 
stuck  with  the  cloves,  and  the  vinegar,  when  the  fish  is  put 
down  to  boil.  Boil  1 5  minutes  ;  take  them  up,  dry  on  a 
clean  cloth ;  roll  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  saucepan  with  2 
ounces  of  butter.  When  brown,  add  the  herbs  and  boiling 
water,  salt  and  pepper  as  above.  Peel  the  button  onions  ; 
toss  them  over  the  fire  in  a  frying-pan  until  brown,  with  I 
teaspoonful  each  of  sugar  and  butter ;  then  add  them  to  the 
matelote  and  simmer  1  hour.  If  the  sauce  evaporates,  add 
enough  boiling  water  to  make  up  the  original  quantity. 
When  done,  add  the  wine  and  serve  with  croutons  as  a  gar- 
nish.    The  above  receipt  may  be  used  for  any  firm,  fine  fish. 


BROILED  EELS.  55 

EELS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

ANGUILLES  A   LA   POULETTE. 

Eels,  y2  can  mushrooms, 

I  tablespoon  butter,  ^  tablespoon  flour,  dried  in  the  oven 

I  cup  of  broth,  Parsley, 

I  gill  of  white  wine,  Pepper  and  salt, 

I  onion,  minced,  2  or  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

Lemon-juice,  Croutons. 

When  the  eels  are  skinned  and  properly  cleaned,  let  them 
disgorge  in  vinegar  and  boiling  water  ;  then  dry  thoroughly 
and  cut  in  joints  of  equal  lengths,  3  to  4  inches.  The  pro- 
portions given  will  be  for  about  12  such  joints.  Put  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  about  £  a  can  of  button  mushrooms  (1 
cupful)  and  butter.  Let  begin  to  fry  ;  then  dredge  in  \ 
tablespoonful  of  flour  dried  as  above  ;  now  add  about  1 
cupful  of  broth  and  1  gill  of  Chablis  or  other  white  wine, 
and  stir  until  it  boils ;  then  season  with  pepper,  salt,  fine 
herbs,  and  the  onion,  minced  very  fine.  Let  all  stew  until 
the  eel  is  tender  ;  skim  off  the  floating  grease  and  remove 
the  stew  from  the  fire.  Add  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  mixed 
with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  stir  quickly  to  prevent  curd- 
ling. Do  not  put  again  on  the  fire  where  it  will  cook,  on 
account  of  the  eggs.  Serve  with  croutons  and  pieces  of 
lemon  to  garnish  the  dish. 

FRIED  EELS. 

ANGUILLES     FRITES. 

Let  the  eel  thoroughly  disgorge  in  boiling  water  and  vin- 
egar, cut  in  lengths  of  3  or  4  inches.  Wipe  dry.  Split  in 
two,  dip  in  egg  and  bread-crumb,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
See  General  Directions  for  Frying. 

BROILED  EELS. 

ANGUILLES   GRILLEES. 

Proceed  as  above,  dipping  only  in  flour,  and  broil  quickly 
over  a  clear  fire. 


56  GOOD-LIVING. 

BOILED  SALMON. 

SAUMON,    SAUCE     MAYONNAISE. 
To  every  3  pounds  of  salmon  put  : 

1  lb.  salt,  1  gal.  water, 

%  oz.  of  saltpetre. 

Let  the  salt  and  water  be  thoroughly  boiling,  and  skim  it 
before  you  put  in  the  fish.  Boil  quickly,  allowing  about  10 
minutes  to  the  pound,  whole  ;  serve  immediately.  Or  if  sliced, 
should  be  cut  I  inch  thick. 

The  appropriate  sauces  are  mayonnaise,  tartare,  or  a  little 
of  the  water  in  which  the  salmon  was  boiled,  with  chopped 
parsley  and  lemon-juice  added. 

SALMON  STEAKS  (ENGLISH  RECEIPT). 

Cut  the  fish  in  slices  about  I  inch  thick.  Dry  well  with  a 
cloth  ;  dredge  with  flour,  and  lay  them  on  a  well-buttered 
gridiron  over  clear,  hot  coals.  Turn  with  a  broad-bladed 
knife  slipped  beneath,  and  a  flat  wire  egg-beater  above,  lest 
the  steak  should  break.  When  done  to  a  light  brown,  lay  in 
a  hot  dish  ;  butter  each  steak,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pep- 
per ;  cover  closely,  and  serve  with  chopped  parsley. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES   DE    SAUMON. 

1  lb.  of  cold  boiled  salmon,  Juice  of  half  lemon, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  Pinch  of  cayenne, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  cup  of  cream, 

1  "  of  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  flour. 

Chop  the  salmon  fine  ;  add  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and 
lemon-juice.  Mix.  Bring  the  cream  to  a  boil.  Rub  the 
flour  and  butter  together  until  smooth ;  stir  them  into  the 
cream  ;  stir  and  boil  3  minutes  ;  mix  this  with  the  salmon 
and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold  and  firm,  flour  your  hands 
and  form  it  into  rolls.    Dip  in  egg,  then  in  fine  crumbs.    Set 


COD   STEAKS.  57 

in  the  ice-box  for  at  least  I  hour ;  then  fry  in  boiling  lard. 
See  General  Directions  for  Frying.  Drain  dry  and  serve 
on  a  cut  paper  or  folded  napkin  garnished  with  parsley. 

BOILED  COD. 

CABILLAUD. 

In  boiling  cod,  a  smaller  quantity  of  salt  is  used  than  for 
salmon  ;  I  ounce  of  salt  to  I  quart  of  water  is  the  propor- 
tion. Place  the  cod  on  the  fish-drainer  in  the  kettle,  and 
cover  with  cold  water  salted  as  above.  Let  it  come  almost 
to  a  boil,  then  simmer  for  5  minutes  ;  skim.  The  time  of 
boiling  must  vary  with  the  weight,  moreover  with  the  thick- 
ness of  the  fish.  It  may  take  from  20  minutes  for  a  small 
cod  to  30  for  a  medium-sized  one.  The  large  ones  are  best 
cooked  in  sections,  or  they  will  not  boil  evenly,  the  thickness 
varying  so  much.  Drain  and  serve  on  a  napkin  with  Oyster 
or  Egg  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

COD  STEAKS. 

FILETS   DE   CABILLAUD. 

Should  either  be  dipped  in  egg  and  flour,  and  fried  in  boiling 
lard ;  or  wrapped  in  buttered  paper  and  baked  in  the  oven 
for  30  minutes  ;  or  powdered  with  bread-crumbs  and  broiled. 

The  proper  sauces  to  serve  with  cod  in  any  style  are  :  Oy- 
ster Sauce,  Egg  Sauce,  Brown  Caper  Sauce,  or  Anchovy 
Sauce ;  Oyster  Sauce  is  of  course  preferred  (see  receipts). 

SALT  COD  A  LA  BONNE  FEMME. 

MORUE  A   LA   BONNE   FEMME. 

12  potatoes,  Salt  cod,  enough  for  6  persons, 

12  onions,  y2  lb.  butter, 

1  oz.  flour,  blended  with  a  little  milk. 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  and  also  the  onions.  Cut 
pieces  of  the  fish  2x3  inches ;  lay  the  potatoes  at  the  bottom 
of  the  stewpan ;  next  the  onions ;  then,  at  the  top,  the  salt 


58  GOOD-LI  FING. 

fish,  which  has  previously  been  washed  in  tepid  water.  Put 
enough  water  (cold)  to  cover  the  whole,  and  simmer  until  the 
fish  is  cooked ;  take  it  out.  Let  the  onions  complete  their 
cooking ;  trim  the  pieces  of  salt  fish,  and  remove  all  bones. 
Dissolve  in  another  stewpan  the  butter  and  the  flour,  as 
above  ;  simmer  10  minutes,  then  put  in  the  potatoes,  onions, 
fish  in  order,  as  above  ;  simmer  another  10  minutes,  and  serve. 
— GoguL 

CODFISH  CROQUETTES. 

lYz  lbs.  mashed  potatoes,  10  oz.  picked  codfish,  scalded, 

4  oz.  of  butter,  I  gill  of  cream  or  rich  milk, 

i  teaspoon  of  pepper,  i  egg, 

Fine  bread-crumbs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  hot  potato  ;  add  the  fish,  pepper, 
and  cream  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  mould  into  round  or  oval 
balls.  Roll  these  in  the  beaten  egg,  then  in  the  bread-crumbs, 
which  must  be  very  fine  ;  then  lay  them  on  a  frying-basket  and 
sink  in  deep  boiling  lard,  having  tested  the  heat  with  a  bit 
of  bread.  See  General  Directions  for  Frying.  When  the 
croquettes  are  a  fine  golden-brown,  lift  out  the  basket,  let  it 
drain  for  a  moment,  and  serve  the  croquettes  on  a  folded 
napkin.     This  quantity  will  make  18  good-sized  croquettes. 

BACALAO  A  LA    VIZCAINA. 

1  lb.  dried  salt  codfish,  i  large  onion,  chopped  fine, 

2  cloves  of  garlic,  chopped  fine,  i  gill  of  olive  oil, 

i  pint  rich  tomato  sauce,  I  red  sweet-pepper, 

Pepper,  12  croutons,  1x2  inches  thick. 

Soak  the  codfish  overnight  in  cold  water.  Boil  it  40 
minutes,  putting  it  on  in  cold  water.  Pick  out  the  bones, 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Make  a  good  Tomato  Sauce  (see 
receipt).  Chop  up  the  sweet-pepper  and  add  to  the  sauce. 
Fry  the  onions  and  garlic  in  the  oil,  and  add  all  to  the  sauce. 
Cut  the  croutons  from  the  soft  part  of  the  loaf  and  fry  in 
boiling  oil.  Then  put  the  codfish  into  the  tomato  sauce 
and  heat  it  thoroughly  in  the  oven  in  a  deep  dish  with  the 


HALIBUT  STEAKS  A    LA   FLAMANDE.  59 

croutons  arranged  around  as  a  border.     Allow  it  to  remain 
in  the  oven  about  15  minutes,  then  serve  in  same  dish. 

N.  B. — The  Spanish  red  sweet-peppers  come  to  us  pre- 
served in  oil  in  tin  cans.  Add  black  pepper  as  may  be 
necessary. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

2  cups  picked  salt  cod,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

2     "    mashed  potato,  ^  cup  of  cream, 

%  teaspoon  of  pepper. 

Pick  the  codfish  fine  ;  soak  in  cold  water  30  minutes.  Drain. 
Cover  with  boiling  water.  Stand  on  back  of  range  1 5  minutes. 
Drain  and  press  out  all  water.  Mix  the  fish  with  the  pota- 
toes, which  should  be  well  beaten.  Add  all  other  ingredients. 
Beat  well.  Form  into  balls,  roll  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  or 
in  eggs  and  flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  until  well  browned. 
See  General  Directions  for  Frying. 

BROILED  CODFISH  OR  HADDOCK. 

CABILLAUD,    OR  EGLEFIN   GRILLE. 

Split  the  tail-end  of  the  fish  and  broil  as  directed  for 
Broiled  Fish.  Spread  with  Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter  (see 
receipt) ;  let  stand  for  1  or  2  minutes  in  the  open  oven  to 
melt  the  butter  ;  serve  hot. 

HALIBUT  STEAK  A  LA  FLAMANDE. 

Take  a  halibut  steak  \\  in.  thick.  Wash  and  wipe  dry. 
Butter  the  bottom  of  a  flat  earthenware  dish  that  will  stand 
the  fire.  Sprinkle  over  the  bottom  grated  onion,  pepper, 
and  salt ;  put  the  fish  on  this  ;  brush  it  over  with  the  yolk 
of  an  egg ;  sprinkle  with  grated  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and 
chopped  parsley  ;  pour  over  it  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice ; 
put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  bits  over  the  top,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes.  Serve  it  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  was  baked,  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  lemon. 
Serve  Bechamel  Sauce  (see  receipt)  in  a  sauce-boat  at  the 
same  time. 


60  GOOD-LIVING. 

DEVILLED  HALIBUT. 

Use  I  pound  of  cold  boiled  halibut  instead  of  12  crabs, 
otherwise  follow  exactly  the  receipt  for  Devilled  Crabs. 
Serve  in  shells. 

BAKED  HALIBUT  A  LA   CREOLE. 

I  lb.  halibut  steak,  2  cups  of  stewed  tomatoes, 

1  clove  of  garlic,  chopped  fine,  Butter,  pepper,  salt  to  taste, 

Dried  bread-crumbs,  about  1  cup. 

Remove  all  the  bone  from  the  steak.  Place  it  in  a  bake- 
dish  ;  sprinkle  over  it  the  garlic.  Cover  with  a  layer  of 
tomatoes,  then  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  bits  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt ;  then  another  layer  of  tomatoes.  Bake  20  minutes. 
Serve  in  the  same  dish  in  which  it  was  baked. 

FISH  A  LA  DELMONICO. 

POISSON   A   LA   DELMONICO. 

4  lbs.  of  fish  (halibut  is  best),  4  tablespoons  of  flour, 

yi  lb.  of  butter,  Pepper, 

1  pint  of  milk,  Salt. 

Remove  all  the  bones  from  the  fish,  which  has  been  previ- 
ously boiled.  Put  the  fish  into  a  bake-dish.  Stir  the  flour 
and  butter,  rubbed  smooth,  into  the  boiling  milk.  Boil  5 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  Pour 
the  sauce,  when  well  thickened,  over  the  fish.  Cover  the  top 
with  stale  bread-crumbs,  and  put  it  in  the  oven  until  browned, 
about  15  minutes.     Nice  for  breakfast. 

STEWED  HADDOCK. 

EGLEFIN   EN   MATELOTE. 

4  or  5  lbs.  of  haddock,  cut  in  square  2  oz.  of  butter, 

pieces,  Powdered  mace, 

Cayenne  and  salt,  Flour, 

2  teaspoons  of  Reading  sauce,  ]^  pint  of  sherry, 

2         "  "   anchovy      "  2  tablespoons  of  flour. 

Split  the  fish  lengthwise  ;  cut  in  pieces.  Boil  the  bones 
and    head    in    sufficient    water  to  cover  them.     Strain  the 


BREAKFAST  FISH.  6 1 

liquor.  Butter  a  porcelain  saucepan  ;  lay  the  fish  in  it  with 
the  flesh  downward ;  sprinkle  each  piece  with  cayenne,  salt, 
mace,  and  flour.  Pour  over  this  I  pint  of  the  fish  liquor, 
cover  and  simmer  gently  for  20  minutes,  occasionally  shaking 
the  saucepan  to  prevent  sticking.  Add  the  Reading  and 
anchovy  sauces  and  the  sherry.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together  and  blend  with  a  little  of  the  gravy,  then  stir  these 
into  the  saucepan.  Stir  constantly.  Add  more  seasoning,  if 
necessary ;  let  it  simmer  10  minutes,  and  serve  in  a  deep 
dish  with  parsley  and  lemon.     Pour  the  gravy  over  the  fish. 

MOCK  TURBO  T  A  LA   CREME. 

6  lbs.  of  cold  boiled  haddock,  1  quart  of  milk, 

^f  onion,  Sprig  of  parsley,  chopped, 

Small  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  y^  teaspoon  of  white  pepper, 

Cheese,  and  bread-crumbs,  "  "  thyme, 

Salt,  y^  cup  of  butter. 

Bring  the  quart  of  milk  to  a  boil  with  onion  and  parsley. 
Rub  together  the  flour  and  cold  milk ;  stir  them  into  the 
boiling  milk.  Add  seasonings.  Have  ready  the  fish,  boned. 
Shred.  Butter  a  bake-dish.  Lay  in  a  layer  of  fish.  Remove 
the  sauce  from  the  fire  and  carefully  stir  in  the  beaten  yolk 
of  the  eggs.  Now  pour  a  layer  of  this  sauce  over  the  fish  ; 
then  begin  again  with  a  layer  of  fish,  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  filled.  Finish  with  sauce,  over  which  sprinkle  a  layer 
of  fine  bread-crumbs  and  grated  cheese.  Bake  1  hour  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

BREAKFAST  FISH. 

2  oz.  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard-flour, 

Cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon-juice,  Cold  fish,  dried  bread-crumbs. 

Free  the  fish  from  bones,  and  flake  it.  Rub  the  other 
ingredients  to  a  smooth  paste.  Half-fill  scallop-shells  with 
the  fish ;  lay  the  paste  over  it ;  cover  with  dried  bread- 
crumbs. Set  in  the  oven  until  thoroughly  heated,  about  10 
minutes. 


62  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRIED  SOLE  (ENGLISH  RECEIPT). 

SOLES   FRITES. 

The  fish  must  be  perfectly  fresh,  and  perfectly  clean.  If 
the  former  point  is  in  the  slightest  degree  doubtful,  do  not 
attempt  to  fry  it  whole,  but  remove  the  fillets  from  the  bone 
and  cut  off  the  parts  near  the  head  and  at  the  edges,  and 
wash  with  vinegar  and  water.  After  the  sole  has  been 
cleaned,  it  must  be  thoroughly  dried,  and  lightly  dredged 
with  flour,  which  completes  the  drying.  Have  ready  plenty 
of  sifted  bread-crumbs,  and  enough  well-beaten  yolk  of  egg 
to  coat  the  fish  all  over  ;  this  is  best  done  with  a  brush. 
Then  let  every  part  be  covered  with  bread-crumbs.  Have  the 
lard  quite  boiling,  or  the  fish  will  be  limp.  See  General 
Directions  for  Frying.  Fry  the  fish  a  golden  brown ; 
place  it  when  fried  on  a  paper  before  the  fire  to  drain  off  the 
grease.     Serve  on  a  napkin  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

FILLETS  OF  SOLE  A  LA   ORLY. 

FILETS   DE   SOLE   A   LA   ORLY. 

I  sole  for  every  4  fillets,  Chopped  parsley, 

Lemon-juice,  pepper,  and  salt,  1  onion,  sliced. 

Get  your  fishmonger  to  prepare  the  fillets  if  possible  ;  if 
you  are  obliged,  however,  to  do  them  yourself,  first  skin  the 
fish  (a  troublesome  task  if  you  would  not  waste  your  fish)  ; 
then  make  a  slit  with  a  very  sharp  knife  from  head  to  tail  on 
each  side,  also  down  the  back  and  belly.  Then  run  your 
sharp  knife  very  close  to  the  backbone  each  side,  which  will 
separate  the  fillets.  Trim  them  neatly  at  the  head  and  tail 
ends,  and  remove  all  the  fin-bones  from  the  sides.  The  fil- 
lets thus  prepared  and  wiped  clean,  steep  them  for  I  hour  in 
a  mixture  of  lemon-juice,  parsley,  onions,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Then  drain  and  dry  them.  Cover  with  a  coating  of  flour,  or 
dip  in  Batter  (see  receipt)  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  See  Gen- 
eral Directions  for  Frying.  Dish  on  a  folded  napkin  in  a 
circle,  with  a  bunch  of  fried  parsley  in  the  centre.    Serve  with 


FILLETS   OF  SOLE,    MAITRE  D 'HOTEL.  63 

Tomato  Sauce    (see  receipt).      Many  other  fish  of  delicate 
quality  may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner. 

SOLE  A   LA  URORE. 

1  sole,  Butter,  salt,  and  pepper, 

Chopped  parsley,  %  small  onion,  grated, 

1  cup  of  White  Sauce,  4  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Butter  a  shallow  fire-proof  or  tin  dish  ;  lay  the  fish  upon  it 
whole.  Cover  with  a  buttered  paper  and  place  in  the  oven 
for  10  minutes.  Then  take  it  out  and  carefully  remove  the 
backbone,  filling  its  place  with  chopped  onions  and  parsley. 
Replace  the  upper  side  of  the  fish,  and  cover  the  whole  with 
rich  White  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Return  to  the  oven  for  10  to 
1 5  minutes  longer.  Prepare  the  eggs  by  cutting  the  whites 
in  quarters  with  which  to  garnish  the  edge  ;  press  the  yokes 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  When  the  fish  is  cooked,  sprinkle 
the  top  thickly  with  the  yolks  and  return  to  the  oven  for  2 
minutes,  to  heat  thoroughly.  The  edges  of  the  dish  should 
be  decorated  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  sliced  lemon,  and 
parsley. 

FILLETS  OF  SOLE,  MAITRE  U  HOTEL. 

FILETS   DE    SOLE  A  LA   MAITRE   D'HOTEL. 


1  sole  makes  4  fillets, 

Lemon-juice, 

1  oz.  of  butter, 

Parsley, 

l/2.  gill  of  cream, 

^  oz.  of  flour. 

Time  required,  about  30  minutes.  Fillet  the  sole  as  de- 
scribed in  Fillets  of  Sole  a  la  Orly.  Put  the  bones  and 
fins  of  the  sole  into  a  saucepan  with  2  gills  of  hot  water 
to  boil.  Butter  a  flat  tin  pan  thoroughly.  Fold  the  fillets 
loosely  over  and  lay  them  on  the  tin.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt 
and  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  over  them  and  cover  with 
a  buttered  paper.    Set  them  in  a  sharp  oven  for  6  minutes. 

To  make  the  sauce  :  Chop  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  very 
fine  and  put  it  aside.  Mix  in  a  stewpan  I  oz.  of  butter  and 
f-  oz.  of  flour  until  smooth.     Strain  the  fish-stock  by  degrees 


64  GOOD-LIVING. 

into  the  flour  and  butter,  stirring  quickly  to  prevent  lumps. 
This  should  be  done  off  the  fire.  Now  put  the  stewpan  on 
the  fire  and  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  the  cream  and 
stir  until  it  boils.  Remove  from  the  fire  ;  add  the  chopped 
parsley,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Arrange  the  fillets,  when  done,  on  a  hot  platter ;  add  to  the 
sauce  whatever  liquor  may  remain  in  the  flat  tin  pan  ;  pour 
the  sauce  over  the  soles  and  serve. 

TO  FRESHEN  SALT  FISH. 

Lay  the  fish  in  cold  water,  carefully  turning  the  skin-side 
upward,  otherwise  the  salt  in  melting  will  all  settle  in  the 
skin,  and  the  fish  be  as  salt  as  ever. 

Put  the  flesh  side  down,  and  naturally  the  salt  falls  to  the 
bottom  of  the  water. 

HERRING  BALLS. 

3  bloaters,  or  red  herrings,  Cream,  and  butter, 

Equal  bulk  of  mashed  potatoes,  Eggs, 

Lard,  Bread-crumbs  for  dipping. 

Partly  boil  the  bloaters  or  herrings  ;  remove  the  skin  ; 
take  all  the  meat  from  the  bones ;  add  to  this  the  mashed 
potatoes  made  from  potatoes  baked  in  their  skins.  Add  a 
large  lump  of  butter  and  cream  enough  to  soften  it.  Form 
into  balls  ;  roll  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs  and  fry  in  lard 
or  butter  golden  brown.  See  General  Directions  for  Fry- 
ing. Take  care  not  to  make  the  mixture  too  soft,  as  it  will 
become  still  softer  when  subjected  to  the  heat  of  the  lard. 

FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Cut  a  piece  of  the  size  required.  Put  it  into,a  frying-pan 
with  boiling  water  to  cover.  Boil  5  minutes.  Throw  off  the 
water ;  add  a  lump  of  butter ;  when  it  melts,  and  the  fish  is 
well-covered  with  it,  serve. 

BROILED  SALT  MACKEREL. 

Soak  overnight.  Next  morning  drain  well  and  wipe  dry. 
Broil  over  a  clear  fire.      Now  put  it  on  a  platter  ;  pour  boil- 


SHREWSBURY  "COURT-BOUILLON."  65 

ing  water  over  it ;  in  1  or  2  minutes  throw  this  off.  Melt  1 
teaspoonful  of  butter  in  1  gill  of  hot  cream.  Pour  over  the 
fish.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley  and  serve.  Recom- 
mended. 

PO  TO  MA  C  HERRING. 

Select  those  with  roe,  by  preference.      Prepare  as  directed 
for  Finnan  Haddie. 

YARMOUTH  BLOA  TERS. 
Prepare  as  directed  for  Finnan  Haddie. 

KIPPERED  HERRING. 
Prepare  as  directed  for  Finnan  Haddie. 

SHRE WSB URY"  COUR T-BO VILLON." 

4  medium-sized  or  5  small  onions  cut  fine,  ^  cup  red  wine, 

3j4  lbs.    fish  (any  kind   that   has   firm  }?.    tablespoon    of    butter    or    sweet 

flesh  will  do),  drippings, 

30  large  clams  without  the  beards,  Small  bunch  of  celery  leaves,  chopped 

1  cup  stewed  tomatoes,  fine, 

6  large  sea-biscuits,  Larger    bunch    of     parsley    leaves, 

Clam-juice,  chopped  fine, 

Yz  sweet-pepper,  chopped  fine.  Salt,  pepper, 

2  potatoes,    cut   in    pieces   (not  indis-     Ground      cloves,      ground     allspice, 
pensable),  nutmeg  or  ground  mace,  to  taste. 

Chop  the  onion  and  fry  it  gold  color  in  the  butter  or  drip- 
pings. Remove  the  pot  (an  iron  one  is  best).  Lay  upon 
the  onions  in  layers  the  fish,  free  from  bones  ;  sweet-pepper, 
celery,  and  parsley  chopped  and  sprinkled  over  ;  then  a  pinch 
each  of  the  spices,  pepper,  and  salt ;  then  clams,  tomatoes, 
and  sea-biscuit  broken  in  pieces  ;  then  again  the  fish,  etc.,  as 
before,  until  all  the  ingredients  are  in  the  pot.  Pour  in  all 
the  clam-juice  which  you  have  previously  strained  ;  add  cold 
water  up  to  the  level  of  the  fish.  Stew  gently  but 
steadily  45  minutes.  Remove  with  a  soup-strainer  to  a 
deep  dish  all  that  is  solid,  leaving  the  sauce  in  the  pot.  Add 
5 


66  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  red  wine,  and  a  little  blending  of  corn-starch  or  flour 
rubbed  up  in  cold  water.  Let  the  same  boil  3  or  4  minutes, 
stirring  frequently.  Have  ready  the  court-bouillon  in  a 
deep  dish  with  a  cover,  (not  a  soup-tureen)  ;  strain  some  of 
the  sauce  over  it.  Serve  what  remains  in  a  sauce-boat. 
This  will  be  found  to  be  a  most  excellent  modification  of  the 
common  chowder,  and  one  which  is  far  more  acceptable  to  a 
delicate  palate.  Its  appearance  when  served  is  also  more 
tempting.  Elsewhere  will  be  found  a  receipt  for  conven- 
tional clam  chowder. 

NEW  ORLEANS  "COURT-BOUILLON" 

5  or  6  lbs.  bass,  halibut,  or  other  fish,  3  onions,  chopped, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  can  of  tomatoes, 

1  flour,  3  or  4  whole  cloves, 

1  pint  of  claret,  Pepper,  salt,  toast. 

Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  then  add  the  tomatoes  and 
cloves,  etc.  Let  these  stew  together  for  30  minutes.  Then 
add  the  flour  blended  with  about  \  a  pint  of  the  claret.  Let 
it  boil,  stirring  constantly  for  5  minutes,  until  the  flour  is 
thoroughly  cooked.  Strain  the  sauce  and  return  it  to  the 
fire  in  a  saucepan.  Lay  in  the  sauce  the  fish  cut  in  steaks, 
bass  being  best,  but  any  firm  fish  will  do.  Let  them  sim- 
mer gently  until  cooked,  which  will  require  from  6  to  10 
minutes  according  to  the  thickness  and  quality  of  the  fish. 
Have  ready  in  a  deep  dish,  slices  of  dry  toast,  enough  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish.  When  they  are  done,  lay 
the  slices  of  fish  on  the  toast ;  add  the  remaining  £  pint  of 
claret  to  the  sauce  ;  pour  it  over  the  fish  and  serve.  A  piece 
of  sweet-pepper  chopped  may  be  added  to  the  above  sauce, 
also  cayenne  and  more  spices,  if  preferred. 

FROGS  FRIED  IN  BA  TTER. 
Scald  the  legs  3  minutes  in  boiling  water  with  salt 
and  a  little  lemon-juice  ;  dry  in  a  towel ;  dip  in  Fritter-Batter 
(see  receipt),  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  until  light  golden-brown. 
Drain  on  soft  paper  and  serve  with  a  bunch  of  fried  parsley 
on  a  folded  napkin.     Garnish  with  lemon. 


FROGS  IN  BROWN  FRICASSY.  67 

FROGS  FRIED. 

GRENOUILLES  FRITES. 

Having  scalded  the  frogs'  legs,  dip  them  in  egg  and  sifted 
bread-crumbs  and  fry  as  above. 

FROGS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

GRENOUILLES  A  LA  POULETTE. 

Prepare  the  frogs'  legs  as  above.  Make  a  Poulette  Sauce 
(see  receipt)  and  warm  the  frogs'  legs  in  it,  being  careful  not 
to  stir  in  the  eggs  until  the  last.  If  boiled  after  the  addition 
of  the  eggs,  the  sauce  will  curdle. 

A  WHITE  ERICA  SS  Y  OF  FROGS. 

(OLD-FASHIONED   RECEIPT.) 

"  Cut  off  the  Hinder  Legs  ;  strip  them  of  the  Skin  and  cut 
off  the  Feet,  and  boil  them  tender  in  a  little  Veal  Broth,  with 
whole  Pepper  and  a  little  Salt,  with  a  Bunch  of  Sweet  Herbs 
and  some  Lemon-peel.  Stew  these  with  a  Shallot  till  the  Flesh 
is  a  little  tender ;  strain  off  the  Liquor  and  thicken  it  with 
cream  and  butter  ;  serve  them  hot  with  Mushrooms  pickled 
tossed  up  with  the  sauce.  They  make  a  very  good  Dish,  and 
their  Bones,  being  of  a  very  fine  Texture,  are  better  to  be 
eaten  than  those  of  Larks." 

FROGS  IN  BROWN  FRICASSY. 

"  Prepare  the  Frogs  as  before,  flour  them  well,  put  them 
into  a  pan  of  hot  lard  and  fry  them  brown,  then  drain  them 
from  the  Liquor  and  make  a  Sauce  for  them  of  good  meat 
Gravy  ;  some  Lemon-peel,  a  Shallot  or  two,  some  Spices 
beaten  [ground],  a  Bunch  of  Sweet  Herbs,  an  Anchovy,  some 
pickled  Mushrooms  and  their  Liquor,  and  some  Pepper  and 
Salt.  Toss  up  these  thick  with  Butter,  pour  the  sauce  over 
them,  and  some  Lemon-juice.  Garnish  with  broiled  Mush- 
room Flaps  and  Lemon  sliced." 

These  two  antiques  cannot  be  improved  upon. 


SHELL-FISH. 

TERRAPIN. 

Terrapins  are  always  sold  alive,  and  are  in  season  from 
November  to  March.  Diamond-backs  are  the  best,  but  are 
very  expensive.  The  males  are  small  and  of  inferior  flavor. 
The  common  red-legs  or  fresh-water  terrapins  are  quite  good 
and  much  less  expensive. 

PHILADELPHIA  STEWED  TERRAPIN. 

3  terrapins,  2  gills  of  thick  cream, 

5  eggs,  boiled  hard,  yi  lb.  of  butter, 

2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  gills  of  madeira  or  sherry, 

I  dessertspoon  of  salt,  Cayenne  to  taste. 

Put  the  terrapins  alive  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
io  or  15  minutes,  or  until  you  can  pull  off  the  outer  skin  and 
the  toe-nails.  Now  put  them  back  into  fresh  boiling  water  ; 
add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  boil  slowly  until  the 
shells  part  easily  and  the  flesh  on  the  legs  is  quite  tender, 
from  1  to  \\  hours.  When  done,  take  out  of  the  pot ;  save 
2  gills  of  the  liquor  in  which  they  are  boiled.  Remove  the 
under  shell  and  allow  it  to  stand  until  cool  enough  to  handle. 
Then  take  the  meat  out  of  the  upper  shells.  Carefully 
remove  the  sand-bags,  bladders,  the  thick,  heavy  part  of  the 
intestines,  and  the  gall-bag  which  is  found  embedded  in 
the  lobe  of  the  liver,  and  throw  them  away.  In  removing 
the  gall-bag,  be  careful  not  to  break  it,  as  it  would  spoil  the 
whole  terrapin.  In  the  finer  preparations  of  terrapin  the 
"  ribbons  "  are  not  used.  Break  the  terrapin  into  convenient- 
sized  pieces,  add  it  to  the  liver  broken  up,  also  all  the  eggs 
68 


TO   SERVE   OYSTERS  RAW  W  A   BLOCK  OF  ICE.       69 

found  in  the  terrapin,  all  the  juices  that  have  accumulated 
during  the  cutting  up,  and  the  2  gills  of  liquor  saved  from 
the  boiling.  Set  the  terrapin  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  upon 
a  moderate  fire.  Rub  the  flour,  with  a  small  portion  of  the 
butter,  to  a  cream.  Stir  it  into  the  terrapin.  Rub  the  5 
yolks  of  eggs  to  a  very  smooth  paste  with  the  salt,  red  pep- 
per, butter,  and  wine.  Add  them  to  the  terrapin ;  stir  to 
mix  well.  When  hot,  add  the  cream  and  serve  immediately. 
It  must  not  boil  after  the  cream  is  added,  and  indeed  must 
not  stew  more  than  about  5  minutes  from  the  time  it  begins 
to  cook ;  only  just  long  enough  to  cook  the  flour,  and  to 
thoroughly  heat  the  other  ingredients  as  they  are  added. 
This  is  highly  recommended,  being  the  genuine  receipt  from 
the  best  authority. 

BALTIMORE  TERRAPIN. 

Have  ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water  on  the  fire.  When  it 
boils  hard,  lay  in  the  terrapins  and  boil  until  the  skin  and 
toe-nails  will  come  off  (see  Philadelphia  Terrapin).  When 
prepared  as  directed,  cut  up  the  meat.  Season  to  taste  with 
cayenne,  black-pepper,  and  salt.  Put  all  into  a  stewpan  with 
the  liquor  that  the  terrapin  has  yielded  while  being  cut  up. 
Add  no  water.  To  each  terrapin  allow  \  lb.  of  best  butter, 
mixed  with  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Cover  closely  and  stew 
gently  until  the  meat  is  very  tender,  and  serve  hot  in  a  deep 
dish.     If  the  allowance  of  flour  is  not  sufficient,  add  more. 

N.  B. — In  removing  the  gall-bag  be  careful  not  to  break 
it,  or  the  entire  terrapin  will  be  rendered  uneatable. 

TO  SERVE  OYSTERS  RAW  IN  A  BLOCK  OF  ICE. 

Make  a  hollow  in  the  centre  of  a  block  of  ice  by  placing  a 
hot  flat-iron  on  the  top,  in  whatever  form  may  be  desired. 
Stand  the  block  on  a  folded  napkin  upon  a  platter.  Salt 
and  pepper  the  oysters  before  putting  them  in  the  ice.  Stand 
in  a  very  cold  place  until  served,  that  the  ice  may  not  melt. 
Decorate  with  sliced  lemon,  and  serve  with  cayenne  and 
lemon  cut  in  quarters. 


JTO  GOOD-LIVING. 

RAW  OYSTERS  ON  THE  HALF-SHELL. 

HUITRES. 

Serve  the  oysters  on  flat  oyster-plates,  6  to  each  person, 
putting  a  quarter  of  a  lemon  in  the  centre,  and  hand  black 
and  red  pepper.  Or,  use  the  usual  dinner-plate,  making  a 
bed  of  finely-chipped  ice,  on  which  lay  the  oysters  in  their 
shells,  5  or  6  for  each  person.  Hand  lemon  cut  in  quarters, 
black  and  red  pepper.  A  European  custom  worth  importing 
is  to  hand  at  the  same  time  tiny  tartines  made  of  thinnest 
brown  bread,  spread  with  freshest  butter,  and  cut  in  neat 
diamonds. 

FRIED  OYSTERS. 

HUITRES   FRITES. 

50  largest  oysters,  Egg, 

Fine  dried  bread-crumbs,  sifted,  Grated  nutmeg, 

Salt  and  pepper,  Lard  for  frying. 

The  oysters  should  be  the  largest  and  firmest  obtainable; 
Shrewsburys  are  best.  Wipe  them  perfectly  dry  in  a  clean 
cloth,  and  feel  with  your  fingers  that  no  pieces  of  shell  remain 
attached  to  them.  Have  ready  in  a  saucer  the  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Have  ready  in  a  bowl  the  bread-crumbs  ;  fine  rolled 
crackers  may  be  mixed  with  them.  Season  the  crumbs  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Dip  the  oysters 
first  in  egg,  then  cover  thoroughly  with  the  crumbs.  Lay 
on  a  dish,  not  touching  each  other,  that  they  may  dry.  Set 
away  for  2  or  3  hours,  if  you  have  time.  Put  lard  enough  in 
the  frying-pan  to  cover  the  oysters.  Bring  it  to  a  boil.  See 
General  Directions  for  Frying.  When  the  lard  is  ready,  lay 
in  the  oysters,  not  close  enough  to  touch ;  use  a  frying-bas- 
ket,  if  possible.  In  3  to  5  minutes  they  will  be  done.  If 
the  lard  is  deep  enough,  they  will  not  require  turning.  As 
they  are  removed  from  the  lard,  lay  on  a  sieve  or  paper  in 
the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  perfectly  freed  from  grease, 
dish.  Serve  very  hot,  garnished  with  sliced  lemon  and 
parsley,  and  neatly  arranged  on  a  fancy  paper. 


ROAST  OYSTERS.  ?I 

STEAMED  OYSTERS. 
Leave  a  covered  dish  where  it  will  heat  thoroughly.  Open, 
wash,  and  drain  the  oysters ;  put  them  in  a  shallow  tin  pan, 
and  place  in  the  steamer.  Cover  and  leave  it  over  boiling 
water  until  the  oysters  are  puffed  and  curled,  about  10  minutes 
or  more  ;  then  put  them  into  a  hot  dish.  They  may  be 
dressed  at  table,  or  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  may  be  added  in 
the  kitchen.  Or,  the  oysters  may  be  steamed  in  their  shells, 
washing  them  well  beforehand.  They  should  be  placed  in 
the  steamer  over  boiling  water,  covered  close,  and  left  until 
the  shells  open  easily. 

OYSTER  PAN-ROAST. 
Wipe  the  large,  opened  oysters  dry  on  a  clean  cloth,  pick- 
ing off  all  bits  of  shell.  Leave  the  cloth  covered  over  them 
while  you  heat  a  shallow  frying-pan  very  hot.  Put  in,  then, 
a  lump  of  butter,  and  when  it  melts,  add  the  oysters  and  let 
them  fry  until  they  begin  to  brown  slightly,  turning  con- 
stantly and  keeping  the  pan  very  hot.  Have  ready  a  hot 
dish  with  a  generous  lump  of  butter  in  it.  When  the  oysters 
are  done,  turn  them  in  ;  add  salt  and  pepper ;  cover  well 
with  the  melted  butter.     Serve. 

DEVILLED  OYSTERS. 

HUITRES  A  LA  DIABLE. 
Prepare    according    to     the    receipt    for    Devilled    Crabs, 
putting  the  force-meat  into  some  of  the  deepest  oyster-shells 
which   have  been  scrubbed  clean  ;    or    into    silver  or  china 
shells. 

ROAST  OYSTERS. 

HUITRES  ROTIES. 

Scrub  the  oyster-shells  ;  stand  them  on  their  hinges  on  the 
top  of  the  range,  and  roast  until  quite  firm.  Remove  the 
flat  shell  from  each  ;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  into  the 
deep  shell  with  the  oyster,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Or,  place  on  their  hinges  in  a  baking  pan ;  roast  in  a  quick 
oven  until  quite  firm,  and  serve  as  directed. 


72  GOOD-LIVING. 

O  YS  TERS  A  LA  PO  ULE  TTE. 

HUITRES   A    LA   POULETTE. 

Prepare  as  directed  for  Curried  Oysters,  omitting  the 
curry-powder  and  adding  I  gill  of  sherry  or  white  wine. 
When  the  oysters  are  cooked,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  beaten  up  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rich 
cream.     Serve  immediately. 

STEWED  OYSTERS. 

50  oysters,  1  pint  of  cream, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  gill  of  bread-crumbs, 

1  pint  of  boiling  water  or  juice,        Salt  and  pepper. 

Drain  the  oysters  in  a  colander  ;  rinse,  to  remove  all  shell 
and  grit.  Put  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  water  or  juice  and 
stew  for  5  minutes ;  then  add  the  oysters,  and,  in  ten  min- 
utes, add  the  cream,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Boil  up  once 
and  serve.  Oyster-juice  is  preferable  to  boiling  water,  if 
obtainable  in  sufficient  quantity. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS.. 

BEIGNETS  d'HUITRES. 

25  large  oysters,  2  eggs, 

I  cup  of  milk,  i  teaspoon  of  salt, 

A  pinch  of  pepper,  2  cups  of  flour, 

%  teaspoon  of  baking-powder. 

Drain  the  oysters  to  remove  any  shell  and  grit.  Chop 
fine.  Beat  the  eggs  together  until  light  ;  add  to  them  the 
milk,  then  the  flour  and  salt  and  beat  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Add  the  dry  oysters  and  baking-powder.  Mix,  and  drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  boiling  lard,  having  first  tested  the  lard  (see 
General  Directions  for  Frying).  Fry  golden  brown ; 
drain  on  a  piece  of  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  serve 
on  a  folded  napkin  or  cut  paper.  Do  not  use  a  fork  to  re- 
move them,  as  piercing  would  render  them  heavy. 

Or  follow  receipt  for  Clam  Fritters. 


PICKLED   OYSTERS.  73 

OYSTERS  A  U  PARMESAN. 

HUITRES  AU  PARMESAN. 
Oysters,  Butter, 

Bread-crumbs,  Chopped  parsley, 

Grated  parmesan,  I  gill  of  white  wine, 

Cayenne. 

Butter  a  shallow  dish  ;  strew  with  brown  bread-crumbs. 
Wipe  the  oysters  ;  see  that  they  are  free  from  grit  ;  lay  them 
on  the  crumbs  ;  strew  parsley  and  cheese  over  them,  then 
more  crumbs.  Pour  in  the  white  wine  and  put  them  in  a 
quick  oven.  Pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  the  top  and 
when  browned  (20  minutes)  serve. 

CODDLED  OYSTERS. 

Oysters,  Pepper  and  salt, 

Butter,  Toast. 

Drain  the  liquor  from  large  oysters.  Heat  a  large  lump  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan.  When  it  is  hot,  add  the  liquor. 
When  the  liquor  boils  very  hard,  drop  in  the  oysters  and 
cook  until  the  beard  curls  and  the  oyster  is  quite  firm.  Have 
the  bottom  of  a  deep  dish  covered  with  slices  of  toast ;  lay 
the  oysters  on  these ;  pour  the  liquor  over  the  toast ;  add 
salt  and  pepper  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  the 
toast  has  absorbed  all  the  liquor.  There  should  be  no  super- 
fluous liquor.  If  the  oysters  have  yielded  too  much  in  the 
first  instance,  you  need  use  only  enough  to  soak  the  toast 
well. 

PICKLED  OYSTERS. 

100  large  oysters,  12  blades  of  mace, 

2  heaping  teaspoons  of  whole  allspice,  1  sliced  lemon, 

2  level  "  "       cloves,  1  pint  of  vinegar, 

1  lady-finger  pepper,  Salt  to  taste. 

Drain  the  oysters.  Free  every  one  from  shell  or  grit, 
being  careful  not  to  bruise  or  tear  them.  Strain  the  liquor 
into  a  china-lined  kettle,  selecting  one  that  will  not  scorch 
easily.  Add  as  much  boiling  water  as  there  is  oyster  liquor. 
Bring  this  to  a  boil.  When  boiling,  lay  in  the  oysters,  a  few 
at  a  time,  that  you  may  watch  them  well.  Boil  until  the 
beard  curls  and  the  fat  part  of   the   oyster  feels  perfectly 


74 


GOOD-LIVING. 


firm  between  your  thumb  and  finger.  Lay  them  on  open 
platters  where  they  will  cool.  After  a  while  turn  them  over 
and  cool  the  other  side.  The  oysters  must  be  absolutely 
cold  all  through,  or  they  will  be  slimy  when  pickled.  When 
all  the  oysters  are  cooked  and  set  to  cool,  remove  the 
liquor  from  the  fire,  and  wash  out  the  kettle.  Strain  I  quart 
of  the  liquor  into  the  kettle,  add  to  it  I  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
the  allspice  and  I  level  teaspoonful  of  cloves— that  is  twice  as 
much  of  the  former  ;  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper,  about  \  a 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  6  leaves  of  mace.  Set  it  where  it 
will  simmer  for  about  30  minutes,  until  the  liquor  is  well 
flavored  with  the  spices.  Meanwhile,  as  soon  as  the  oysters 
are  perfectly  cold  all  through,  put  them  into  a  stone  jar  with 
the  lemon  sliced  very  thin,  (remove  the  pips),  the  lady-finger 
pepper,  from  which  remove  the  seeds,  the  remainder  of  the 
cloves,  allspice,  and  mace.  When  the  boiling  liquor  is  suf- 
ficiently flavored,  remove  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  vinegar, 
(the  quantity  given  is  for  strong  vinegar) ;  set  it  again  on  the 
fire  to  heat,  and  then  pour  it  through  a  strainer  over  the 
oysters  and  fresh  spices.  Do  not  use  the  spices  that  have 
been  boiled.  The  amount  of  liquor  allowed  should  cover 
the  oysters  entirely.  Cover  the  jar  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
for  24  hours  before  using.  If  always  well  covered  with  the 
pickle,  these  oysters  should  keep  for  several  weeks  in  cold 
weather.  If  they  are  to  be  kept,  next  day  pack  the  oysters 
in  clean  preserve-jars  ;  fill  them  to  cover  with  the  pickle, 
screw  on  the  tops,  and  set  in  a  cold  place.     Delicious. 

N.  B. — Be   careful  not  to  scorch  the  liquor,  or  the  oysters 
will  be  spoiled. 

OYSTER  PIE. 
PATE   D'HUITRES. 

100  large  oysters,  6  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  I  level  tablespoon  of  butter, 

I  "  of  mixed  ground  spices,       Salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 

1  large  slice  of  stale  bread,  grated. 

Line  a  large   round    dish    with    Good    Plain    Paste    (see 
receipt),  rolling  the  bottom  very  thin,  and  building  up  the 


SCALLOPED   OYSTERS.  75 

edges  with  I  or  2  extra  layers.  Drain  the  liquor  from  the 
oysters  ;  see  that  they  are  free  from  all  shell  and  grit.  Put 
them  and  the  butter  rubbed  with  the  flour  in  a  saucepan  on 
the  fire.  Add  the  seasonings  and  stir  well.  Add  I  pint  of 
the  liquor  strained  and  boiling.  Stir  smooth.  Chop  the  hard- 
boiled  eggs  fine.  Pour  the  oysters,  in  5  minutes,  when 
scalded,  into  the  dish ;  sprinkle  the  bread-crumbs  and  eggs 
over  the  top.  Cover  with  a  lid  of  paste  rolled  about  \  an 
inch  thick.  Trim  and  notch  the  edges  neatly.  Cut  a  hole  (x) 
in  the  centre.  Roll  up  a  small  sheet  of  pastry,  notch  it 
crosswise  with  a  knife,  and  bake  it  on  a  separate  tin.  Some 
pastry  leaves  may  also  be  cut  out  and  arranged  on  the  top  of 
the  pie.  Set  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  and  bake  for  about 
30  to  40  minutes.  Watch  that  one  side  does  not  bake  faster 
than  the  other.  Boil  some  of  the  remaining  oyster-liquor. 
When  the  pie  is  done,  pour  it  through  the  hole  in  the  top  ; 
place  the  pastry  rose  over  the  hole  and  serve. 


SCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

HUITRES   EN   COQUILLES. 

50  oysters  and  their  juice,  Butter, 

Bread-crumbs,  Salt  and  cayenne. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor.  Drain  them,  and 
remove  all  grit  or  pieces  of  shell.  Butter  the  scallop-shells 
and  shake  fine  bread-crumbs  over  them.  Fill  them  with 
alternate  layers  of  oysters,  crumbs,  and  lumps  of  butter ; 
season  each  layer.  Pour  in  some  of  the  oyster-liquor 
strained.  Cover  the  top  with  bread-crumbs  moistened  with 
melted  butter.  Place  them  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  5 
minutes  to  brown  the  top. 

Or :  Follow  the  above  directions,  using  1  large  dish  instead 
of  shells,  filling  with  alternate  layers,  adding  cream  as  well  as 
the  oyster-juice  to  moisten  it.  Bake  15  minutes  until  well 
browned. 


•j6  GOOD-LIVING. 

OYSTERS  FOR  PATES,  Etc. 

I  quart  of  oysters,  Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

y%  small  onion,  grated,  I  teaspoon  of  flour, 

I  gill  mushroom-juice,  Salt  and  pepper, 

%  box  of  mushrooms,  Chopped  parsley, 

Lemon-juice. 

Bring  the  oysters  to  a  boil  in  their  own  juice.  Drain 
them.  Put  the  butter  into  a  saucepan  ;  when  hot  add  the 
onion  and  flour  and  stir  well  until  smooth.  Now  add  I  gill 
of  the  juice  of  a  can  of  mushrooms,  pepper,  salt,  parsley,  and 
the  mushrooms  cut  not  too  fine,  that  is  in  halves  or  quarters. 
Then  add  the  oysters.  Stir  all  together  until  the  oysters  are 
firm.  Add  lemon-juice  to  taste,  and  a  little  cayenne.  Serve 
in  pates,  caisses,  vol-au-vent,  etc. 

CURRIED  OYSTERS. 

HUITRES   AU    KARL 

50  oysters  with  their  juice,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  gill  of  cream,  or  2  of  good  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

Pinch  of  corn-starch,  Small  saltspoon  of  curry-powder, 

1  tablespoon  of  fine-chopped  parsley,  Salt. 

Drain  the  oyster-juice  into  a  saucepan  and  put  on  the  fire 
to  boil.  Wipe  the  oysters,  which  should  be  large  and  firm, 
in  a  clean  cloth,  carefully  removing  any  pieces  of  shell.  Put 
in  another  saucepan  the  butter  and  flour.  Rub  smooth,  but 
do  not  brown.  When  the  oyster-juice,  to  which  you  have 
added  a  little  milk  (if  you  have  no  cream),  comes  to  a  boil, 
stir  it  into  the  flour  very  slowly,  stirring  constantly  to  prevent 
lumps.  Let  this  boil  a  few  minutes.  Rub  up  the  curry- 
powder  with  a  pinch  of  corn-starch  or  flour  and  a  few  drops 
of  cold  milk  or  water.  Stir  this  into  the  sauce.  When 
boiling  hard,  drop  in  the  oysters  as  dry  as  possible,  and  let 
them  cook  quickly,  until  you  can  feel  the  fat  part  firm.  Add 
salt.  If  the  sauce  is  not  thick  enough  to  cling  to  the 
oysters,  add  a  little  more  corn-starch  rubbed  up  in  cold  milk 
or  water,  give  one  boil  and  serve  in  a  dish  bordered  with  rice. 
Sprinkle  parsley  over  the  oysters. 


MINCED   OYSTERS.  JJ 

OYSTERS  STEWED  IN  A    CHAFING-DISH. 

2  tablespoons  of  milk  or  oyster-juice,       25  oysters, 

I  heaping  teaspoon  corn-starch,  I  teaspoon  of  butter, 

Salt,  pepper,  dash  of  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  (may  be  omitted). 

Melt  the  butter.  When  it  bubbles,  put  in  the  oysters 
without  the  juice.  Add  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  put 
the  cover  on,  raising  it  every  little  while  to  stir  the  oysters 
and  turn  them.  Rub  the  corn-starch  with  the  milk,  if  you  do 
not  use  sherry  ;  if  you  do  use  the  wine,  blend  the  corn-starch 
with  some  of  the  cold  oyster-juice.  When  the  beards  of  the 
oysters  begin  to  curl,  stir  in  the  corn-starch.  Stir  and  boil 
until  the  corn-starch  thickens  well,  then  add  the  sherry ;  stir, 
and  the  oysters  are  ready  to  eat. 

OYSTERS  EN  BROCHETTE. 

HUITRES   EN   BROCHETTE. 

Take  a  long  skewer  (silver  or  plated  is  best)  ;  string  upon 
it,  alternately,  oysters  and  bits  of  sliced  bacon  cut  to  the  size 
of  the  oysters.  The  extreme  ends  should  terminate  with  the 
bacon.  When  all  are  in  place,  broil  the  whole  over  a  clear 
fire  until  the  oysters  are  firm.  Have  some  butter  melting  by 
the  side  of  the  fire  ;  lay  the  oysters  on  a  hot  dish  ;  pour  the 
butter  over ;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  and  salt,  and  serve.  If 
the  skewers  are  not  presentable,  draw  the  oysters  off  and  dish 
them  alternately  with  the  bacon. 

Very  simple  and  good. 

MINCED    OYSTERS. 

HUITRES   EN   HACHIS. 

50  oysters,  y^  the  bulk  when  minced,  in  cold  fish, 

6  fresh  (or  canned)  mushrooms,  minced,  1  gill  white  wine, 

1  gill  fish-stock  (or  the  oyster-juice),  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  rich  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
Parsley  ;  chives  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoon  of  flour. 

Have  ready  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water ;  throw  in  the 
oysters ;  when  it  comes  again  to  a  boil,  skim  them  out ;  throw 


y8  GOOD-LIVING. 

into  cold  water  for  a  minute ;  wipe  dry  and  mince  not  too 
fine.  Add  to  this  mince  half  the  bulk  of  any  fine,  white, 
cold  fish  minced  fine,  (or  omit  this,  if  not  obtainable).  Now 
put  into  a  saucepan  the  butter,  I  tablespoonful  of  parsley, 
i  teaspoonful  of  chives  chopped  very  fine,  and  the  mush- 
rooms. Let  them  stew  gently  for  about  5  minutes,  dredging 
in  about  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  when  the  butter  melts  ;  stir  it 
a  few  times.  Add  the  white  wine  and  Fish-Stock  (see  re- 
ceipt), or  failing  this  latter,  use  the  same  amount  of  oyster- 
juice  strained.  Mix.  Add  the  mince,  and  stew  gently  until 
all  the  sauce  is  entirely  absorbed  and  the  mince  becomes  like 
a  thick  batter.  Be  careful  it  does  not  scorch.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  with  the  cream. 
Stir  again  over  the  fire  for  about  1  minute.  Have  ready 
large  Croutons  (see  receipt),  or  puff-paste  shells ;  when  the 
mince  is  ready,  serve  on  these. 
Highly  recommended. 

OYSTERS  AND  MACARONI. 

HUITRES   AU    MACARONI. 

50  oysters  parboiled  in  their  own  juice,  ]£  lb.  macaroni, 

1  small  teacup  of  cream  or  White  Sauce,  Bread-crumbs, 

Cayenne  and  salt,  Grated  lemon-peel. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted,  boiling  water  25  minutes,  or 
until  very  tender.  Drain  thoroughly.  Lay  in  a  deep  fire- 
proof dish.  Put  upon  it  a  thick  layer  of  oysters  with 
cayenne,  salt,  and  grated  lemon-peel.  Pour  over  all  a  small 
cupful  of  cream,  or,  if  you  have  none,  use  same  quantity  of 
White  Sauce  (see  receipt),  the  consistency  of  cream.  Cover 
the  top  with  bread-crumbs,  and  brown  in  a  quick  oven. 
Serve  hot  with  Sauce  Piquante  (see  receipt).  The  oysters 
will  require  fully  10  minutes  to  complete  their  cooking  in 
the  oven,  having  been  boiled  only  until  the  beards  have  be- 
gun to  curl. 

TO  BOIL  A    LOBSTER. 
Have    a   large  kettle  on   the  fire  with   plenty  of  boiling 
water,  deep  enough  to  cover  the  lobster  well.     Put  in  £  to  I 


BROILED  LOBSTER,    CALLED  A   L'AMERICATNE.        ?§ 

cupful  of  salt.  When  the  water  is  galloping,  put  in  the 
lobster  head-foremost  and  keep  it  under  water  with  the  poker 
for  a  minute  until  it  is  quiet.  Boil  15  to  20  minutes  a  lobster 
of  2  to  4  pounds.  Lobster  is  even  better  boiled  in  sea- 
water. 

N.  B. — If  a  boiled  lobster  was  alive  when  it  was  cooked, 
the  tail  when  pressed  out,  should  be  elastic  and  spring  back 
instantly.  It  is  advisable  never  to  buy  a  lobster  which  has 
not  been  seen  alive  ;  when,  however,  it  is  unavoidable,  the 
above  may  be  of  service  in  selecting. 

TO  DRESS  LOBSTERS   COLD. 

Crack  the  shell  of  the  claws  carefully,  not  to  mash  the 
meat ;  remove  it  and  place  upon  a  dish  ;  crack  the  second 
small  joint  of  the  claws — pick  out  the  meat  also.  Now  turn 
the  lobster  on  its  back  ;  lay  a  heavy  knife  on  the  middle  of 
the  tail,  all  the  way  up  to  the  body.  Give  it  a  gentle  blow 
with  the  hammer ;  then  with  both  hands,  turn  back  the  shell 
and  draw  out  the  tail  intact.  This  leaves  the  tail  still  at- 
tached to  the  body  and  its  shell.  Twist  off  the  claws  from 
the  under  side  of  the  body,  and  open  it  so  that  the  fat  may 
easily  be  reached.  Now  open  the  tail  in  length  half-way 
through  on  the  under  side ;  remove  the  black  vein  from  body 
to  end.  Place  the  lobster  on  the  dish.  Arrange  the  large 
claws  towards  the  front,  and  the  small  claws  around  as  a 
garnish.  Dress  with  parsley  and  serve.  Or  the  body  may  also 
be  stripped  of  its  shell  and  opened ;  in  which  case,  remove 
the  "  lady's  arm-chair "  (or  stomach)  and  sand-bags.  This 
is  not  as  pretty  a  way  as  the  first  described,  but  gives  a  little 
more  edible  meat. 

BROLLED  LOBSTER,  CALLED  A  LAMERICALNE. 

HOMARD   A   L'AMERICAINE. 

Remove  the  small  claws,  "  lady's  arm-chair  "  (stomach),  and 
sand-bags  from  a  live  lobster,  splitting  it  with  a  heavy  knife 


80  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  mallet  from  head  to  end  of  tail.  Spread  open  on  a  hot 
gridiron  over  a  fiercely  hot  bed  of  coals.  Turn  and  broil 
about  20  minutes.  Serve  with  plain  Melted  Butter  (see 
receipt). 

LOBSTER  A    LA    NEWBERG. 

HOMARD   A   LA   NEWBERG. 

1  lobster,  from  3^  to  4  lbs,  Cayenne,  salt, 

1  gill  of  sherry,  I  tablespoon  of  brandy, 

1  pint  of  cream,  1  "         "    butter, 

4  yolks  of  eggs. 

Put  the  lobster  head-foremost  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water, 
and  boil  15  minutes.  Take  it  out  and  allow  it  to  cool.  Re- 
move the  meat  from  the  shell  and  cut  it  into  square  pieces 
about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
the  sherry,  brandy,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Add  a  little  cayenne.  Let  all  boil  for  5  minutes.  Prepare 
in  a  bowl  with  cream,  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  little  butter. 
Mix  well  and  stir  it  into  the  lobster  while  the  latter  is  boiling. 
Do  not  let  boil  again  after  the  cream  is  added  to  the  lobster, 
or  it  will  curdle.     Serve  in  a  very  hot  dish. 

LOBSTER    CHOPS. 

COTELETTES   DE   HOMARD. 

2  oz.  of  butter,  2  oz.  of  flour, 

I  cup  of  cream,  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

Nutmeg,  %  lb.  of  boiled  lobster  meat, 

Cayenne  and  salt,  Egg  for  dipping, 

Lard  for  frying,  Sifted  bread-crumbs  for  dipping. 

Cut  the  lobster  into  very  small  dice.  Put  the  butter  and 
flour  into  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Blend  and  stir,  but  do  not 
color.  Add  the  boiling  cream  and  the  lobster  dice.  Stir  2 
or  3  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire.  When  slightly  cool, 
stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  cayenne 
and  salt  to  taste.  Return  to  the  fire  and  stir  until  the  eggs 
are  well  set.     Butter  a  platter.     Spread  the  mixture  upon  it 


LOBSTER  FARCIED.  8 1 

\  an  inch  thick.  When  cold  and  firm,  form  it  into  chops 
pointed  at  one  end.  Dip  first  into  bread-crumbs,  then  into 
eggs,  then  again  into  the  crumbs.  Let  them  stand  in  the 
ice-box  for  I  hour  at  least.  Have  the  lard  boiling  in  the 
frying-pan.  Test  it  with  a  piece  of  bread.  See  General 
Directions  for  Frying.  When  the  lard  is  ready,  lay  in  the 
chops,  using  a  frying-basket  if  possible  ;  fry  golden  brown. 
Drain  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  Stick  a 
claw  in  the  end  of  each  chop,  and  dish  in  a  circle.  Garnish 
tastefully,  and  serve  with  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

LOBSTER   CURRY. 

HOMARD    AU    KARL 

I  lobster,  medium  size,  2  onions,  minced, 

1  oz.  of  butter,  I  tablespoon  curry-powder, 

2  gills  of  stock  or  water,  Juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
Salt  and  cayenne,  Boiled  rice. 

Cut  the  boiled  lobster  into  dice  ;  fry  the  onion  in  butter; 
stir  in  the  curry-powder  and  stock  or  water.  Stew  all  to- 
gether until  beginning  to  thicken,  then  put  in  the  lobster 
meat.  Stew  for  about  20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally. 
Just  before  serving,  add  the  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  cayenne. 
Dish  with  a  wall  of  boiled  rice  around  the  edge  and  the  lob- 
ster in  the  middle. 

DEVILLED  LOBSTER. 

HOMARD  A  LA  DIABLE. 
Having  boiled  the  lobster  and  picked  out  the  meat,  remove 
the  black  vein  from  the  tail.  Save  all  fat,  green  and  red.  Chop 
the  meat  and  dress  exactly  as  directed  for  Devilled  Crabs ;  fill 
the  lobster-shell  with  the  mixture  ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs ; 
bake  15  minutes  until  browned. 

LOBSTER  FARCIED. 

HOMARD   FARCI. 

Proceed    exactly   as   for  Crabs  Farcied,  having  removed 

the  black  vein  from  the  tail  of  the  lobster. 
6 


82  GOOD-LIVING. 

SOFT-SHELL    CRABS  FRLED. 

Raise  the  ends  of  the  crabs  and  remove  the  sand-bags 
and  spongy  substance  from  beneath  the  shells.  Wash  well 
and  wipe.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  equal  parts 
of  lard  and  butter  in  a  frying-pan  on  the  fire ;  when  boiling, 
lay  in  the  crabs.  Turn  them  when  partly  done  ;  leave  them 
longest  on  the  white  or  under  side.  They  will  take  from  10 
to  15  minutes  to  cook,  according  to  size.  Rub  a  little  fresh 
butter  over  the  backs  of  the  crabs  when  dishing,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

BOILED  HARD-SHELL  CRABS. 
Have  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water  on  the  fire.  Put  in  from 
1  to  2  gills  of  salt.  When  boiling  hard,  pick  up  the  crabs 
with  the  kitchen  tongs ;  drop  them  into  the  water  head  fore- 
most, if  they  will  allow  it,  and  boil  rapidly  for  about  10 
minutes,  or  until  the  shells  are  bright  red,  but  no  longer,  or 
they  will  become  watery.  The  livelier  they  are,  the  better. 
They  must  be  alive  when  put  into  the  pot.  Crabs  do  not 
keep  long  when  once  cooked  ;  in  summer  not  over  36  hours  ; 
lobsters  likewise. 

DEVILLED   CRABS. 

CRABES  A  LA  DIABLE. 

6  oz.  of  crab-meat,  2  oz.  of  bread-crumbs, 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  crumbed,  Juice  of  half  a  lemon, 

Cayenne  and  salt,  Cream. 

Pick  the  meat  from  boiled  hard  crabs.  Wash  the  shells. 
Fill  the  shells  with  the  above  ingredients  mixed.  Use  Cream 
Sauce  if  you  have  no  cream.  Sprinkle  fine  bread-crumbs 
over  each,  and  a  lump  of  butter  on  top.  Brown  in  a  quick 
oven. 

CRABS    FARCIED. 

CRABES  FARCIS. 
Picked  crab-meat,  Grated  bread-crumbs, 

Salt,  pepper,  Butter, 

Cayenne,  Lemon-juice. 

After  picking  the  meat  from  the  shells,  allow  a  little  more 
than  one  quarter  the  weight  of  the  meat  in  crumbs.    Cover 


FRIED   SCALLOPS.  83 

with  bread-crumbs ;  dot  the  top  with  butter,  and  set  in  the 
oven  10  minutes  or  until  lightly  browned.  Serve  on  a  napkin 
with  lemon  and  parsley. 

CRAB  SALAD. 

CRABES   EN   SALADE. 

Picked  crab-meat,  Head  of  lettuce, 

2  tablespoons  of  sweet  oil,  1  saltspoon  of  salt, 

1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  Pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

It  will  take  the  meat  of  at  least  12  to  15  crabs  of  medium 
size  to  make  a  salad  for  six  persons.  Pick  it  carefully,  keep- 
ing the  pieces  as  large  as  possible.  Lay  it  in  a  bowl.  Mix 
the  dressing  as  above  ;  pour  over  the  crabs  ;  mix  thoroughly 
and  set  in  the  ice-box.  Put  a  row  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
around  the  edge  when  ready  to  serve.  The  quantity  of 
dressing  may  be  increased  according  to  the  quantity  of  meat 
the  crabs  yield.     Recommended. 

FRIED   SCALLOPS. 

1  quart  of  scallops,  Bread-crumbs, 

1  egg,  Lard, 

Pepper,  salt,  Nutmeg. 

Wash  the  scallops.  Wipe  dry  in  a  clean  cloth.  Dip  first 
into  the  egg,  which  you  have  beaten  sufficiently  to  mix  yolk 
and  white ;  then  into  fine,  sifted,  dried  bread-crumbs,  or 
mixed  bread  and  cracker  crumbs.  The  bread-crumbs  must 
be  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Lay 
the  scallops  on  a  dish,  separated,  so  that  the  air  may  dry 
them.  Set  them  away  for  an  hour  or  more,  then  fry  golden 
brown  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  They  must 
be  shaken  constantly  so  as  to  prevent  browning  unevenly. 
The  secret  of  cooking  these  well,  is  to  dip  them  nicely,  and 
not  to  fry  them  more  than  about  3  minutes,  the  lard  being 
quite  boiling.  They  should  be  of  a  pale  golden  brown.  As 
a  rule  they  are  cooked  too  much.  Dry  well  on  a  sieve  or 
paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  serve  very  hot  on  a  cut 
paper  garnished  with  parsley  and  lemon. 


84  GOOD-LIVING. 

SCALLOP  SALAD. 

Scald  the  scallops  in  salted  boiling  water  for  3  minutes. 
When  cold,  cut  each  in  two.  Put  into  a  salad  bowl.  Dress 
with  French  Dressing  (see  receipt),  adding  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
Surround  with  crisp  young  lettuce  leaves.     Recommended. 

STEWED   SCALLOPS. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Stewed  Oysters,  only  cooking 
the  scallops  a  much  shorter  time,  until  slightly  firm. 

SCALLOPS  A   LA   POULETTE. 

The  same  as  above,  with  the  addition  of  the  yolks  of 
2  eggs  stirred  in  after  the  scallops  are  removed  from 
the  fire. 

SCALLOP  PATES. 

Prepare  as  for  Devilled  Scallops.  Have  ready  some 
pastry-puffs  well  heated.     Fill  with  the  mixture  and  serve. 

DEVILLED   SCALLOPS;  OR, 

A   LA   DIABLE. 

I  pint  of  rich  White  Sauce,  1  quart  of  scallops, 

1  small  cup  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  Salt, 

Curry-powder,  Celery-salt, 

1  gill  of  sherry,  Cayenne. 

Scald  the  scallops.  Chop  not  too  fine.  Stir  the  bread- 
crumbs and  scallops  into  enough  White  Sauce  to  blend 
the  whole  without  making  it  too  liquid  ;  the  addition  of  the 
wine  will  soften  it  still  more.  Add  the  seasoning,  being 
careful  to  put  not  enough  of  any  one  thing  to  permit  its 
particular  flavor  to  predominate.  The  quantity  of  curry 
can  never  be  accurately  defined,  as  it  varies  greatly  in 
strength.  The  only  guide  is,  that  it  should  not  be  recogniz- 
able among  the  other  ingredients.  Put  into  buttered  shells, 
with  browned  bread-crumbs  over  the  tops,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  5  to  10  minutes,  just  long  enough  to  heat 
thoroughly  through. 


CLAM  FRITTERS.  85 

CLAMS. 

Note. — to  open  clams  without  a  knife. 

Scrub  the  shells.  Place  the  clams  on  their  hinges  in  a 
clean  roasting-pan.  Pour  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water  into 
the  pan,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  until  the  shells  open  easily. 
Strain  the  liquor  and  use  if  required. 

RAW  CLAMS. 

Select  the  smallest  and  most  tender.  Serve  before  dinner 
in  spring  and  summer.  They  should  be  as  cold  as  possible. 
(See  receipt  for  Raw  Oysters.) 

CLAMS    WITH   CREAM. 

50  small  clams,  Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

1  teaspoon  of  flour,  1  cup  of  boiling  cream, 

Clam-juice,  strained,  Pepper. 

Chop  the  clams  not  very  fine.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire.  Add  the  flour  and  stir  well.  Cook  a  few 
moments,  but  do  not  color ;  add  gradually  the  hot  clam- 
juice,  then  the  clams.  Stew  3  to  5  minutes.  Add  the  cream 
and  pepper,  also  salt  if  required.     Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

FARCIED    CLAMS. 

Follow  exactly  the  receipt  for  Farcied  Crabs,  using  the 
shells  of  the  clams  to  bake  the  mixture  in.  Season  with 
plenty  of  cayenne  and  add  chopped  parsley.  Be  careful  of 
adding  salt. 

CLAM  STEW. 

Follow  same  directions  as  for  Stewed  Oysters,  or 
Oysters  a  la  Poulette  (see  receipts). 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 

Chop  the  clams  fine,  or  simply  cut  off  the  beards  and 
leave  the  rest  of  the  clam  whole.  Make  a  thick  batter,  see 
below.     Mix  the  clams  with  it  and  drop  the  mixture  by  the 


86  GOOD-LIVING. 

tablespoonful  into  boiling  lard.     Fry  golden  brown.      See 
General  Directions  for  Frying  ;  drain  for  a  moment  on  brown 
paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven   and  serve  very  hot,  in  a 
pyramid  on  a  folded  napkin. 
Batter  for  above : 

%  lb.  of  flour,  2  eggs, 

I  level  saltspoon  of  salt,  I  tablespoon  of  salad  oil. 

^   "  "  "pepper,  I  cup  of  water,  or  less, 

%  level  saltspoon  of  nutmeg. 

Mix  all  together  with  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Beat  the  whites 
to  a  stiff  froth,  then  mix  them  with  the  batter,  which  should 
be  stiff  enough  to  hold  the  drops  from  the  spoon  in  shape 
when  dropped  upon  the  batter.  If  you  have  enough  clam- 
juice  use  it  in  preference  to  water  for  thinning  the  batter. 

N.  B. — Oysters  may  be  cooked  as  above. 

ROAST  CLAMS. 

Scrub  the  shells.  Stand  them  on  their  hinges  on  the  top 
of  the  range  and  roast  until  quite  firm.  Break  off  one  shell ; 
put  a  piece  of  butter  on  each  clam  and  serve  very  hot.  Or, 
stand  the  clams  as  described  in  a  baking-pan  ;  set  the  pan  in 
a  quick  oven  for  about  15  minutes,  until  the  clams  are  quite 
firm.  Strain  the  juice  into  a  sauce-boat,  add  a  lump  of  butter 
and  pepper  and  serve. 

CLAM  CHOWDER  NO.   L 

50  clams,  2  gills  of  good  stock,  or  milk, 

1  onion,  chopped  fine,  I  tablespoon  of  butter, 
Salt  to  taste,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 
Cayenne,  i  saltspoon  of  ground  mace, 

2  gills  of  cream,  I  "        "  powdered  thyme, 
8  oz.  of  potato,  cut  in  dice,  4  oz.  hard  tack,  in  pieces. 

When  the  clams  have  boiled  3  minutes  in  their  own  juice, 
strain  out  and  return  the  juice  to  the  fire.  Fry  the  onion  in 
butter,  and  the  pork  cut  in  dice ;  add  the  flour.  Stir.  When 
cooked  well,  add  the  clam-juice,  stock  (or  water),  cream, 
mace,  thyme,  cayenne,  potatoes,  and  salt  if  necessary.    When 


CLAM  CHOWDER  NO.  II. 


37 


the  potatoes  are  tender  (about  25  minutes)  add  the  clams 
whole  or  cut  in  pieces  and  the  biscuits  soaked  in  milk.  Boil 
until  the  clams  are  firm,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish  or  tureen. 

CLAM  CHOWDER  NO.   II. 


200  soft  clams, 

1  teaspoon  of  sweet  marjoram, 

I  "  "  thyme, 

I         "         "  sage, 

1         "  "  summer  savory, 

I  large  teaspoon  salt, 

Pepper  to  taste, 


1  large  onion,  sliced, 

10  large  crackers, 

1  can  of  tomatoes, 

Chopped  parsley, 

%.  lb.  butter, 

1  saltspoon  ground  cloves, 

1         ' '         curry-powder, 


2  gills  of  cream  or  rich  milk. 

Boil  all  but  the  milk  together  for  about  40  minutes. 
When  done,  add  the  milk  or  cream.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Then 
move  from  the  fire  and  add  2  gills  of  sherry.  Serve  in 
a  tureen. 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  COOKING  MEATS. 


Hr. 

Minutes. 

Sirloin  of  beef,  oven,  moderately  under-done 

.per  lb. 

9 

Sirloin  of  beef,  before  the  fire,  moderately  under-done 

per  lb. 

IO 

Rib-roast,  boned  and  rolled,  oven,  moderately  under-done, 

per  lb. 

IO 

Leg  of  mutton,  oven,  moderately  under-done 

.per  lb. 

IO 

Stuffed  shoulder  of  mutton,  oven,  well-done 

.per  lb. 

16 

Saddle  of  mutton,  oven,  very  under-done 

.per  lb. 

9 

Loin  of  mutton,  oven,         "             "           

.per  lb. 

8 

Loin  of  veal,  slow  oven,  very  well-done  (covered). . . . 

.per  lb. 

15  to  18 

Fillet  of  veal,  slow  oven,    "           "               "         .... 

.per  lb. 

18  to  20 

Stuffed  shoulder  of  veal,  slow  oven,  well-done  (covered) 

per  lb. 

18  to  20 

Leg  of  pork,  slow  oven,  very  well-done 

.per  lb. 

20 

Loin  of  pork,  slow  oven,  very  well-done 

.  per  lb. 

15  to  18 

Shoulder  of  pork,  slow  oven,  very  well-done 

.per  lb. 

20 

Filet  of  beef,  moderately-quick  oven,  under-done. . . . 

.  .whole 

45  to  60 

Liver,  moderate  oven,  well-done 

.  .whole 

2 

Liver,  braised,  simmered  gently,  well-done 

.   whole 

2 

Beef,  braised,  simmered  gently  (from  first  putting  on) 

.per  lb. 

About  36 

Bouilli,  simmered  very  gently         "       "         "        "  . 

.per  lb. 

32  to  35 

Cornbeef,  simmered  very  gently     "       "         "        "  . 

.per  lb. 

30  to  32 

Brisket  of  beef,  simmered  gently    "       "         "         "  . 

.per  lb. 

About  30 

Ham,  in  cider.     When  cider  begins  to  boil,   allow. . . 

.per  lb. 

18  to  20 

Ham,    in  water.     When  water  begins  to  boil,  allow. . . 

.per  lb. 

18  to  20 

Leg  of  mutton,  simmered  very  gently 

.per  lb. 

15  to  18 

Bacon,  boil  gently 

.per  lb. 

15 

.  .  .fnllv 

5 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  REHEATING,   ETC.  89 

DIRECTIONS  FOR  KEEPING  ME  A  TS,  ETC.,  WARM, 
AND  REHEATING. 

Sufficient  attention  is  not  paid  to  this  detail,  so  important 
to  the  achievement  of  furnishing  a  good  table.  First  of  all 
must  be  laid  down  the  rule  that  nothing  is  to  be  put  into 
the  oven  to  keep  warm.  This  is  the  easiest  and  most  usual 
mode ;  but  it  is  a  very  bad  practice,  as  the  kind  of  heat  to 
which  the  article  of  food  is  thus  subjected  tends  to  dry  the 
surfaces,  more  or  less,  to  leather  or  a  crisp,  and  renders  the 
dish  most  unappetizing  and  unattractive.  There  is  but  one 
right  way  to  manage  this  matter. 

Put  upon  a  dish,  bowl,  or  plate  (according  to  its  nature) 
the  article  of  food  to  be  kept  hot.  Cover  it  over  closely 
with  an  inverted  bowl,  dish,  or  plate,  as  may  be  required. 
Make  it  as  nearly  air-tight  as  possible.  Fill  with  boiling 
water  a  pot  or  saucepan  into  the  top  of  which  the  plate  or 
bowl  will  fit.  The  saucepan  should  not  be  more  than  half 
full  of  water.  Set  the  dish  or  bowl  over  this  ;  set  the 
saucepan  back  on  the  range  where  the  water  will  be  kept 
at  boiling  point,  and  let  it  remain  until  required. 

By  observing  these  directions,  it  will  be  found  that  most 
dishes  will  not  suffer  very  much  by  being  kept  awhile. 
There  are  exceptions  to  the  rule.  Croquettes  do  not  keep 
hot  well  in  the  manner  directed.  Indeed  all  fried  things 
are  spoiled  by  standing,  becoming  limp  and  soggy.  They 
should  rather  be  fried  at  the  last  moment,  or  if  this  is  not 
practicable,  they  may  be  reheated  in  the  oven,  leaving  the 
door  open  and  allowing  the  croquettes  to  remain  only  just 
long  enough  to  heat,  but  not  to  dry  up. 

To  reheat  an  ordinary  dish,  the  hot-water  system  described 
above  should  be  employed,  allowing  sufficient  time  to  heat 
slowly. 


W^^M%10&^jM^<k*\ 

Kill-          'i&BmR&*i          w^J&SfeSiSil 

w y-^^M&wz.^.  k^pf<rtiw;>  '  '■'•  -ss>i 

BEEF. 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS. 

TO  ROAST  BEEF. 

ROSBIF. 

The  best  cut  of  beef  for  roasting  is  the  sirloin  or  English 
cut ;  that  most  commonly  used  is  the  rib-roast.  The  former 
has  the  tenderloin  under  the  rib-bone.  A  good  piece  of 
this,  where  the  filet  is  fine,  should  weigh  at  least  10  to 
12  pounds. 

Of  the  rib-roast,  the  third,  fourth  and  fifth  are  the  choice 
cuts.  Two  ribs  "  cut  full,"  as  the  butchers  say,  will  make  a 
good-sized  roast  and  weigh  about  iolbs.  It  certainly  makes 
a  more  sightly  dish  of  this  cut  to  have  the  butcher  trim 
out  the  bones  and  skewer  the  end  around  the  eye  of  the 
meat.  It  lies  nicely  on  the  dish,  and  looks  well ;  but  is 
hardly  as  sweet  as  when  roasted  with  the  bones  left  in.  If 
the  bones  are  removed,  save  them  for  the  soup-pot. 

A  third  cut  for  roasting  which  is  much  used  on  the  con- 
tinent, and  very  little  known  here,  is  the  cross-rib  ;  a  solid 
piece  of  meat,  with  no  bone  and  only  a  fair  allowance  of 
fat.  It  is  a  most  profitable  cut,  there  being  no  waste,  and  it 
certainly  contains  far  richer  juices  than  either  of  the  other 
cuts ;  very  good  qualities  in  a  family  where  there  are  many 
children  or  delicate  digestions. 

See  that  the  piece,  whatever  may  be  the  cut  selected,  is 

neatly  skewered,  that,  when  roasted,  it  may  present  a  proper 

appearance.     Place    it    in  the   roasting-pan   (unless  you  are 

blessed  with  an  old-fashioned  Dutch  oven  and  can  roast  be- 

90 


TO  ROAST  BEEF.  9 1 

fore  the  fire).  With  your  hand,  rub  in  as  much  flour  all 
over  as  the  meat  will  hold,  letting  a  little  drop  on  the  bottom 
of  the  pan.  Put  dots  of  sweet  drippings  over  the  top  of  the 
roast,  using  about  2  tablespoonfuls  in  all.  Meanwhile,  see 
that  your  fire  is  in  prime  order  and  will  not  get  too  low  for 
the  two  hours  to  come.  Turn  all  the  heat  into  your  best 
oven.  When  the  oven  is  at  its  hottest  and  best,  set  the 
roasting-pan  in.  Shut  the  door  and  leave  it  for  about  20 
minutes ;  by  that  time  it  will  have  begun  to  brown  nicely 
and  may  require  the  pan  to  be  turned.  If  not  quite  brown 
enough,  leave  for  another  5  or  10  minutes ;  then  open  the 
door,  draw  out  the  pan  and  pour  in  about  I  cupful  of  boiling 
water.  Have  at  hand  a  long  iron  spoon  with  which  to  baste. 
Baste  the  meat  all  over  generously.  Cover  it  now  with  a 
second  pan  and  set  it  back  in  the  oven.  Shut  off  all  the 
extra  heat  from  the  oven  ;  close  the  draughts,  and  reduce  the 
temperature  of  the  oven  to  a  very  moderate  heat.  Every  10 
or  15  minutes  baste  again.  When  nearly  done,  sprinkle  quite 
thickly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  baste  again.  I  can  hardly 
say  "  baste  "  often  enough,  as  so  much  of  the  result  of  the 
roasting  depends  upon  it.  The  solid  piece  of  12  lbs.  of  beef 
will  be  done,  if  the  above  directions  are  followed,  and  the 
fire  managed  well,  in  exactly  2  hours.  For  a  less  solid 
piece  of  the  same  weight  (that  is,  of  more  surface  and  less 
thickness),  you  would  allow  less  time,  say  9  minutes  in- 
stead of  10  to  the  pound.  For  sirloin,  allow  eight  or  nine 
minutes,  if  liked  very  under-done.  This  turns  out  the  beef 
brown  and  juicy  outside,  delicate  rosy-red  and  juicy  inside  ; 
no  rawness  anywhere  through  it,  unless  it  has  been  subjected 
to  frost,  in  which  case  the  time  cannot  be  calculated.  For 
those  who  like  their  beef  brown  all  the  way  through,  no  red- 
ness at  all  left,  you  must  allow  12  minutes  at  least  to  the 
pound,  but  always  following  the  above  directions.  The 
sense  of  the  matter  is  this :  The  first  intense  heat  of  the  oven 
sears  the  meat,  keeps  in  the  juices,  and  gives,  at  the  same 
time,  a  fine  color  to  the  surface  and  to  the  gravy  which  flows 
from  it.     Lessening  the  degree  of  heat  afterwards,  cooks  the 


92  GOOD-LIVING. 

inside  without  further  scorching  the  surfaces ;  and  covering 
with  a  second  pan  keeps  in  the  juices,  prevents  too  much 
evaporation,  as  well  as  too  much  browning.  When  once  the 
idea  of  roasting  is  grasped,  a  most  important  addition  is  made 
to  one's  accomplishments  as  a  cook.  Intelligence  and  prac- 
tice can  do  much,  although  the  French  do  say,  "  II  faut  etre 
ne  rotisseur." 

When  the  meat  is  cooked,  remove  the  roast  to  a  hot 
platter.  Set  the  roasting-pan  on  the  top  of  the  range.  Pour 
in  a  few  drops  of  water  from  the  kettle,  and  stir  well  to  de- 
tach all  the  nutty-brown  particles  of  flour  that  may  have 
adhered  to  the  pan.  Boil  and  stir  for  3  or  4  minutes,  then 
strain  into  a  gravy-boat,  skimming  off  all  the  superfluous  fat 
(which  you  keep  for  drippings).  Let  me  warn  you  against 
the  melancholy  practice,  which  prevails,  of  adding  flour  to 
the  roasting-pan  to  burn  and  thicken  the  gravy.  This  is  a 
barbarism  and  a  relic  of  antiquity.  Nothing  can  be  better 
than  the  pure  juices  of  the  meat,  and  there  is  no  more  thick- 
ening really  required  than  the  stray  particles  of  flour  which 
fell  from  the  meat  when  first  put  to  roast.  These  have 
cooked  well  and  browned  during  the  time  of  roasting,  and 
serve  to  make  the  gravy  as  rich  as  it  ought  to  be.  The 
system  of  thickening  with  burned,  bitter-tasting  flour  cannot 
be  too  much  discouraged. 

There  has  recently  come  into  use  a  double-iron  pan  for 
roasting,  which  has  a  great  many  good  qualities,  and  settles 
satisfactorily  the  question  and  use  of  covering  meats  while 
roasting.  If  used,  follow  very  carefully  the  directions  given 
with  it,  that  the  roast  may  be  neither  too  flabby  and  steamed, 
nor  too  dried  up.  The  old-fashioned  Dutch  oven  is,  of 
course,  the  best  of  all ;  the  patent  roaster,  with  its  clockwork 
to  make  the  roast  revolve,  is  also  admirable ;  unfortunately 
they  are  fast  disappearing.  The  time  allowed  for  these  is 
slightly  more  than  for  the  oven,  but  not  more  than  1  or  2 
extra  minutes  to  the  pound. 

The  directions  for  beef-roasting  have  been  given  in  detail, 
as  the  general  rules  apply  equally  to  nearly  all  roasted  meats, 


A   PLAIN  BRAISE   OR  "  POT  ROAST."  93. 

allowing,  of  course,  the  difference  of  time  for  the  various 
kinds,  and  will  serve  as  reference  in  many  cases. 

Roast  beef  may  be  garnished  with  fresh-scraped  (not 
grated)  horseradish  (this  is  the  English  custom)  ;  also  with 
Yorkshire  pudding. 


YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  ]/2  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

I     "     "  milk,  4  eggs. 

Put  the  flour  in  a  large  bowl  with  f  of  the  milk,  the  salt? 
and  eggs.  Beat  and  blend  thoroughly  ;  then  add  the  rest  of 
the  milk.  This  quantity  may  be  baked  in  a  pan  12  x  8  x  1 
inch  deep.  Pour  in  some  of  the  drippings  from  the  pan  in 
which  the  beef  is  roasting.  When  the  pan  is  hot,  pour  in  the 
batter  upon  the  drippings,  and  bake  from  30  to  40  minutes. 
Cut  in  square  pieces  and  dish  around  the  roast  beef. 


A  PLAIN  BRAISE  OR  " POT-ROAST" 

Heat  an  iron  pot  ;  put  in  a  very  little  sweet  drippings 
(for  poultry,  butter  is  best) ;  when  hot,  lay  in  the  beef  or 
poultry  ;  if  meat,  sear  it ;  if  chicken,  brown  it  a  delicate  gold 
color,  uncovered.  To  this,  add  a  small  onion  and  a  small  carrot 
chopped  and  fried  in  butter  till  very  brown,  but  not  burned. 
Pour  in  boiling  water  to  barely  half  the  height  of  the  meat  or 
chicken  ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  as  tightly  as 
possible.  Thicken  the  gravy  or  not,  as  you  prefer.  To 
imitate  a  plain  roast,  do  not  thicken  it.  If  thickened,  use  a 
Roux(see  receipt).  Simmer  2  to  6  hours,  according  to  weight 
and  toughness  (see  Time-Table).  Veal  must  "be  cooked  more 
slowly  and  gently  than  any  other  meat,  otherwise  it  becomes 
stringy,  and  is  indigestible.  If  mutton  is  tough,  it  will  be 
found  a  great  improvement  to  beat  it  thoroughly  with  a 
rolling-pin  before  cooking  it. 


94 


GOOD-LIVING. 

BEEF  A  LA  MODE. 

BCEUF   A    LA   MODE. 


10  lb.  piece  of  beef  from  the  round, 

3  sliced  onions, 

2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

Parsley, 

2         "             "  flour, 

Boiling  water, 

2  carrots,  cut  in  large  pieces, 

6  cloves, 

)/z  lb.  salt  pork, 

Bunch  of  celery, 

^  lady-finger  pepper,  without  seeds, 

12  allspice, 

i  large  or  2  small  cloves  of  garlic, 

I  bay-leaf, 

I  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 

I  gill  of  sherry. 

"or  the  force-meat  : 

Bread  crumbs, 

Chopped  onion, 

Spices, 

1  egg, 

Thyme, 

Minced  salt  pork, 

Butter, 

Pepper, 

Parsley, 

Salt. 

To  be  perfect,  this  should  be  made  of  a  piece  from  the  best 
side  of  the  round,  weighing  at  the  very  least  io  (preferably 
12  or  14)  lbs.,  so  that  it  shall  not  be  less  than  5^  to  6  inches 
thick  when  cooked  ;  but,  of  course,  for  a  small  family,  a 
smaller  piece  can  be  used,  provided  it  be  chunky,  not  long 
and  thin.  The  cross-rib  cut  is  excellent  for  this  purpose; 
quite  as  tender,  very  juicy,  and  much  more  compact  than  a 
piece  of  round  of  the  same  weight. 

If  you  are  in  town,  have  your  butcher  lard  it  for  you  ;  if 
in  the  country,  and  have  to  do  it  yourself,  cut  strips  of  fat 
pork  3  or  4  inches  by  £  an  inch  thick.  Make  incisions 
with  a  sharp  knife  at  equal  distances  of  about  2  inches,  and 
insert  the  strips  of  pork.  Repeat  this  operation  on  the  sec- 
ond side  of  the  beef.  Here  and  there  make  incisions  and 
stuff  in  a  little  force-meat  very  highly  flavored  with  parsley, 
thyme,  and  a  little  chopped  onion.  The  force-meat  may  be 
made  of  bread-crumbs,  etc.  (see  list  of  ingredients).  Now  tie 
the  beef  very  neatly  in  a  round,  with  strips  of  muslin  or 
tape  ;  string  of  any  kind  gives  it  a  ribbed,  ugly  appearance 
when  cooked. 

Heat  an  iron  pot  a  little  larger  than  your  beef.     Throw  in 


BEEF  A   LA   MODE.  95 

a  few  slices  of  salt  pork.  When  the  fat  is  melted,  and  the 
pot  fiercely  hot,  push  the  pork  aside  and  lay  in  the  beef. 
Do  not  cover.  Let  it  sear  10  minutes  on  one  side,  then  turn 
and  sear  10  minutes  on  the  other  side.  The  fire  must  be 
intensely  hot  during  this  operation  ;  if  not,  the  beef  must 
sear  a  few  minutes  longer.  This  keeps  in  the  juices  of  the 
meat.  In  a  separate  frying-pan,  fry  meanwhile  2  or  3  sliced 
onions  in  butter.  When  the  beef  is  turned  on  its  second 
side,  throw  the  onions  upon  it.  Then  put  into  the  same 
frying-pan  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  2  of  flour;  stir 
together  until  of  a  rich  brown  color,  but  do  not  burn  ;  then 
add  by  degrees  enough  boiling  water  to  blend  it.  Pour  this 
over  the  beef,  when  the  latter  has  been  long  enough  on  the 
second  side.  Add  to  the  pot  sufficient  boiling  water  to  half 
cover  the  beef.  Let  it  come  to  a  smart  boil.  Add  2  carrots 
and  a  bunch  of  celery,  cut  in  pieces,  a  bunch  of  parsley, 
6  cloves,  12  allspice,  \  a  lady-finger  pepper  (without  seeds), 
1  bay-leaf,  1  large  or  two  small  cloves  of  garlic,  I  tablespoon- 
ful of  vinegar.  Cover  the  pot  as  tightly  as  possible  to  keep 
in  the  steam.  If  necessary,  wrap  a  cloth  around  the  top  to 
prevent  the  escape  of  steam.  Set  on  the  back  of  the  range 
where  it  will  keep  up  a  steady,  gentle  simmer.  It  must  cook 
very  slowly.  Indeed  this  is  the  most  important  rule  for  this 
mode  of  cooking.  After  the  first  2  or  3  minutes,  it  must 
cook  very  slowly  ;  were  it  to  boil,  it  would  become  stringy 
and  go  to  pieces,  instead  of  melting  into  tenderness  and 
retaining  its  juices  and  its  shape  perfectly.  For  10  lbs. 
allow  6  hours.  If  it  is  done  before  that  time  you  may  know 
that  you  have  cooked  it  too  fast.  This  includes  the  time 
taken  for  the  searing.  Watch  it  well,  and  if  your  fire  has 
been  too  quick,  and  it  is  done  before  the  allotted  6  hours, 
set  it  aside  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  cook  any  more. 
When  it  is  time  to  serve  the  beef,  remove  it  to  a  hot 
platter;  pick  out  some  of  the  best  pieces  of  vegetable  to 
garnish  the  dish  ;  skim  and  strain  the  gravy  ;  add  seasonings 
and  1  gill  of  wine.  Pour  a  little  gravy  over  the  beef,  and 
serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat,     Treasure  every  drop  of  it. 


g6  GOOD-LIVING. 


N.  B. — Should  the  gravy  steam  away  in  the  cooking,  you 
can  add  a  little  boiling  water  now  and  again,  but  very  little  at 
a  time.     The  gravy  should  be  delicious. 

Beef  a  la  Mode  is  really  much  better  cold  than  hot.  If  you 
want  to  serve  it  cold,  manage  it  in  this  way  :  When  you  have 
dished  your  meat  and  strained  the  gravy,  return  to  the  pot 
all  the  thick  part  left  in  the  strainer ;  add  to  it  a  little  broth 
or  boiling  water.  Stir  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  When 
you  want  to  put  away  the  beef,  lay  it  in  a  deep  bowl,  mix  all 
the  gravy  that  remains  with  the  broth  in  the  pot ;  strain  the 
whole  over  the  beef ;  shut  up  tight  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place.  This  is  a  very  simple  way  of  mak- 
ing a  delicious  dish.     It  will  keep  for  several  days  in  winter. 


BRAISED  BEEF,  OR  BEEF  EN  DA  UBE. 

BCEUF   BRAISE   OR   EN   DAUBE. 

Is  treated  almost  exactly  the  same  as  Beef  a  la  Mode,  ex- 
cept that  it  need  not  be  larded.  The  cross-rib  cut  is  excel- 
lent for  this ;  but  for  that  matter  almost  any  of  the  usual 
cuts  may  be  used.  The  "  horseshoe  "  does  very  well  also, 
if  cooked  slowly  enough  and  long  enough.  For  the  real 
daube,  however,  use  the  cross-rib.  Sear  as  described  in  the 
receipt  for  Beef  a  la  Mode,  after  tying  up  the  piece  neatly. 
Add  the  same  vegetables  and  seasonings,  and  i  cup  of 
stewed  tomatoes.  The  same  remarks  also  apply  to  the 
mode  of  cooking.  Allow  5  hours  for  8  lbs.,  6  hours  for  10 
lbs.  Watch  it,  and  see  that  it  cooks  slowly  enough.  For  a 
family  dinner,  serve  with  the  vegetables,  as  they  are  excel- 
lent ;  otherwise,  serve  without  the  vegetables. 

Braising  (or  "pot-roasting")  is  a  most  useful  process  of 
cooking,  as  it  serves  for  nearly  every  kind  of  meat  and  poul- 
try, and  is  an  excellent  resource  when  one  is  not  perfectly 
certain  that  one's  joint  is  very  tender.  Try  the  same  process 
for  rabbits,  pigeons,  poultry,  veal,  and  mutton. 


ou 


ROASTED   FILET,    ETC.  gf 

BOILED  BEEF. 

BOUILLI. 

Select  what  is  called  by  the  butchers  the  "  horseshoe  " 
piece.  It  should  weigh  at  least  8  lbs.,  and  from  that  to  io  or 
12.  Put  it  into  a  large  pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water,  al- 
lowing i  quart  to  each  pound  of  meat.  Bring  gradually  to  a 
boil.  Set  on  one  side  of  the  range  where  it  will  simmer 
steadily,  without  a  moment's  intermission,  until  done.  Al- 
low from  32  to  35  minutes  per  lb.,  counting  from  the  time 
the  beef  is  put  on  the  fire,  not  (as  usual)  from  the  time 
the  water  begins  to  boil.  Calculate  the  time,  and  2  hours 
before  it  is  to  be  done,  add  2  or  3  carrots,  cut  in  strips,  a 
large  bunch  of  celery-leaves  or  head  of  same,  2  or  3  onions, 
parsley,  I  or  2  leaves  of  cabbage  (if  winter),  2  or  3  turnips, 
cut  and  trimmed  neatly,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  salt.  When 
the  beef  is  done  (it  should  be  cooked  until  almost,  but  not 
quite,  ready  to  go  to  pieces),  remove  it  to  a  hot  dish.  Have 
ready  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Pour  some  of  the 
sauce  over  the  beef ;  arrange  some  of  the  vegetables  around, 
and  serve  the  rest  of  the  Tomato  Sauce  in  a  boat.  This  is 
the  national  dish  of  the  French  people,  and  it  is  really  excel- 
lent, if  properly  cooked.  Allow  the  broth  to  boil  down 
to  one  half  or  one  third  of  its  original  quantity  ;  strain  and 
set  away.  Some  of  it  may  be  served,  if  necessary,  the  same 
day,  with  the  vegetables  boiled  -with  it  cut  in  fine  pieces, 
mixed  and  served  on  a  separate  dish  (see  Pot-au-feu).  A  few 
pieces  of  dry  toast  should  be  put  into  the  tureen. 

ROASTED  FILET  OF  BEEF,  LARDED. 

FILET   DE   BCEUF   PIQUE. 

Trim  the  filet  neatly,  removing  every  shred  of  the  muscu- 
lar covering  from  the  meat.  Cut  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt 
pork  and  throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  ice-water  to  harden. 
Use  a  larding-needle.  Place  a  strip  of  the  pork  in  the  open 
end  of  the  needle,  pushing  it  in  as  far  as  it  will  go.    With  this 

7 


98  GOOD-LIVING. 

take  a  stitch  on  the  uppermost  side  of  the  filet,  the  stitch  be- 
ing about  1  inch  long,  penetrating  the  meat  only  about  % 
an  inch.  Put  your  finger  on  the  end  of  the  strip  of  pork 
and  draw  it  out  of  the  needle,  leaving  the  ends  of  the  pork 
exposed  about  \  an  inch  at  either  end  of  the.  stitch.  Repeat 
this  in  even  rows  all  down  the  centre  of  the  side  that  is  to 
stand  uppermost  ;  begin  a  new  row  then  about  I  inch 
apart ;  try  to  make  the  ends  of  the  new  row  come  opposite 
the  spaces  in  the  first  row.  Repeat  these  rows  until  all  the 
upper  side  is  filled  (or  your  patience  exhausted).  They 
must  look  very  neat  and  even.  In  the  bottom  of  a  baking- 
pan  lay  1  small  onion,  small  carrot,  stick  or  two  of  celery,  all 
cut  in  pieces,  4  cloves,  and  1  bay-leaf.  Lay  the  filet  on  this 
bed,  larded  side  uppermost.  Dredge  with  pepper,  and  put 
bits  of  butter  over  the  top.  In  the  pan  put  about  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven,  basting 
frequently,  for  about  45  minutes.  Some  authorities  say  30 
minutes,  if  the  oven  is  very  quick.  It  must  feel  quite  elastic 
under  pressure,  as  it  is  always  eaten  underdone.  Remove 
the  filet  to  a  hot  platter.  Put  in  the  pan  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  2  of  flour  ;  stir  them  together  over  the  fire  until 
brown.  Add  I  pint  of  broth,  including  the  strained  pan- 
gravy.  Stir.  Boil  5  minutes.  Strain  ;  add  1  pint  of  fresh 
or  canned  mushrooms  ;  cook  5  minutes,  then  remove  from 
the  fire ;  add  I  teaspoonful  of  Worcestershire  Sauce,  1 
tablespoonful  of  sherry,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  it 
around  the  filet  and  serve. 

BROILED  FILETS  MIGNONS. 

FILETS    MIGNONS   GRILLES. 

Cut  the  filet  crosswise  in  slices  f-  of  an  inch  to  1  inch  thick. 
Remove  all  fibres  and  muscles  from  the  outer  edges.  Have 
the  gridiron  very  hot  under  a  fine,  clear  fire.  Place  a  drip- 
ping-pan beneath  to  catch  the  juices  that  will  fall  from 
the  filets.  Dip  these  on  both  sides  in  good  olive  oil  and  lay 
on  the  gridiron.     In  |  a  minute  turn  them.     Keep  on  turn- 


FILET  OF  BEEF  BRAISED.  99 

them  from  side  to  side,  leaving  no  one  side  longer  than  the 
other.  They  will  take  about  8  minutes  under  an  intense 
fire.  Have  ready  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  (or  more  accord- 
ing to  the  number  of  filets)  rubbed  up  with  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  \  a  lemon.  As  the 
filets  are  cooked,  place  them  on  a  hot  dish,  spread  them 
thickly  with  this  Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter  ;  sprinkle  with  pep- 
per and  salt.  Cover  with  a  second  hot  dish  and  stand  in  the 
open  oven  door  for  2  or  3  minutes  before  serving,  that  the 
butter  may  melt.  Add  the  juices  from  the  pan.  The  filets 
should  be  dished  in  a  circle,  one  overlapping  the  other.  Fill 
the  centre  with  parsley,  or  with  some  delicate  puree,  or  fresh 
peas.  Or  serve  "with  Madeira  Sauce,  with  chopped  truffles 
and  mushrooms. 


FILE  T  OF  BEEF  BRAISED. 

FILET  DE  BCEUF  BRAISE. 

I  filet,  2  carrots,  sliced, 

1  onion,  sliced,  }i  turnip,     " 

Sprig  of  thyme,  Parsley, 

Stick  of  celery  or  leaves,  3  cloves, 

Salt  and  pepper,  6  allspices, 

Salt  pork.  1  gill  of  sherry  or  white  wine. 

Cut  the  salt  pork  in  long  narrow  strips  and  throw  into  a 
bowl  of  cold  water  to  harden.  Lard  the  side  that  is  to  stand 
uppermost.  Use  a  larding-needle.  Proceed  as  directed  in 
receipt  for  Roasted  Filet  of  Beef  Larded.  The  larding 
must  be  very  evenly  and  neatly  done.  It  is  one  of  the 
finesses  of  cookery  that  requires  to  be  demonstrated,  at 
least  once,  by  one  who  has  the  knack  of  it ;  description  is  not 
of  very  much  assistance.  Having  larded  the  upper  side, 
then,  proceed  with  the  mode  of  cooking  as  follows : 

Choose  a  pot  with  a  cover  to  fit,  or  a  double  pan  that  will 
fit  in  your  oven.  Having  cut  up  the  vegetables,  fry  them 
slightly  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  little  butter ;  lay  these  in  the 
pan  in  which  you  are  to  cook  the  filet,  larding  uppermost ; 


IOO  GOOD-LIVING. 

add  the  spices  and  seasoning,  wine,  and  only  enough  boiling- 
water  to  quite  half-cover  the  filet.  Close  it  tightly.  Bring 
it  to  a  boil,  then  set  it  back  where  it  will  barely  simmer  for 
I  hour  to  I  hour  and  20  minutes,  according  to  the  weight 
and  thickness  of  the  filet.  Then  remove  the  cover  of  the 
pot ;  set  in  the  oven  for  15  to  20  minutes,  basting  fre- 
quently. The  meat  should,  when  done,  be  slightly  elastic 
under  the  pressure  of  the  fork.  Never  pierce  meat  to  see  if 
it  is  cooked  ;  after  very  little  experience  you  will  be  able  to 
tell  by  the  firmness  or  slight  elasticity  under  pressure 
whether  the  meat  is  thoroughly  done  or  slightly  underdone. 
When  ready  to  remove  the  filet  to  a  hot  dish,  strain  the  gravy 
into  a  boat,  skim  and  serve.  This  is  a  pe'rfectly  plain,  un- 
garnished  filet,  deliciously  flavored  and  juicy.  It  is  never  as 
red  and  soft  as  when  simply  roasted,  but  is  none  the  less 
good  for  all  that.  On  the  contrary,  the  above  mode  of  treat- 
ing a  filet  will  be  a  revelation  of  new  delights  to  those  who 
only  know  the  soft,  water-soaked,  tasteless  mass  that  most 
filets  are  when  cooked  by  the  commonplace  cook.  Having 
the  foundation  well-prepared,  you  can  garnish  the  filet  in 
any  of  the  various  ways  directed  below. 


FILET  BRAISE  A  UX  CHAMPIGNONS. 

Braise  the  filet  as  directed.  Have  ready  1  can  of  French 
mushrooms,  or  half  a  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms  skinned  and 
slightly  stewed  in  butter.  When  the  sauce  is  strained,  as 
above  directed,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  some  of  the 
liquor  of  the  mushrooms  ;  make  a  roux  of  1  small  teaspoon 
of  butter  and  1  of  flour  well  browned  over  the  fire.  Blend 
the  boiling  sauce  into  the  roux.  Stir.  Add  the  mushrooms 
and  1  gill  of  white  wine  or  sherry.  Boil  3  to  5  minutes  and 
serve  with  the  filet.  If  the  mushrooms  are  fresh,  try  not  to 
break  them  in  cooking  ;  place  them  around  the  filet  as  a  gar- 
nish ;  put  a  little  sauce  on  the  dish  and  serve  the  rest  in  a 
sauce-boat. 


FILET  AUX    TOMATES  FARCIES.  IOI 

FILET  BRAISE,  MADEIRA  SAUCE. 

FILET  BRAISE   SAUCE   MADERE. 

Braise  the  filet  as  directed.  Strain  off  the  sauce.  Add 
to  it  an  equal  quantity  of  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt), 
and  boil  down  for  5  minutes.  Add  one  gill  of  sherry  and 
serve.  Add  also,  if  liked,  mushrooms  and  truffles  chopped 
fine. 

FILET  BRAISE  AUX  TRUFFES. 

Braise  the  filet  as  directed.  Make  the  sauce  as  indicated 
above  (Madeira  Sauce).  To  this  add  some  of  the  best  truf- 
fles that  you  can  buy,  cut  in  not  too  thin  slices. 

N.  B. — Never  buy  any  but  the  best  truffles,  from  the  most 
reliable,  first-class  dealers,  as  there  is  a  great  deal  of  falsifica- 
tion in  this  article,  and  the  false  truffles  are  very  unwhole- 
some. 

FILET  BRAISE  A  LA  SOUBISE. 

Braise  the  filet  as  directed,  and  serve  on  a  Soubise  Sauce 
(see  receipt). 

FILET  BEARNAISE. 

Braise  the  filet  as  directed  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  B£ar- 
naise  (see  receipt). 

FILE  TAUX  TOM  A  TES  FARCIES. 

This  is  a  most  dainty  dish.  Braise  the  filet  as  directed. 
Select  some  small  fresh  tomatoes  of  uniform  size  ;  cut  off  the 
stem-end  and  scoop  out  all  the  soft  inside.  Make  a  dressing  of 
chopped  mushrooms,  a  tiny  bit  of  finely-chopped  or  pounded 
garlic  (or  grated  onion),  chopped  parsley ;  have  the  bulk  of  all 
this  in  stale  bread-crumbs,  and  a  large  lump  of  butter,  salt, 
and  cayenne.  Put  the  mixture  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  until 
the  butter  melts  and  becomes  absorbed.  Fill  the  tomatoes 
with  this  dressing  and  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over  the  top. 
Lay  the  tomatoes  in  a  saucepan  that  will  fit  in  the  oven  ;  put 


102  GOOD-LIVING. 

a  piece  of  butter  and  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  broth  in  the 
saucepan.  Place  the  saucepan  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  20 
to  30  minutes  ;  longer  if  the  tomatoes  are  large.  Remove 
the  cover  and  leave  the  tomatoes  in  the  oven  until  they  are 
slightly  browned.  When  the  filet  is  ready,  strain  the  gravy ; 
thicken  it  slightly  with  a  roux  of  1  small  teaspoon  of  butter 
and  1  of  flour  browned  over  the  fire.  Blend  the  boiling 
gravy  into  it.  Boil  5  minutes.  Add  a  little  wine.  Place 
the  filet  in  the  middle  of  the  dish,  the  tomatoes  around,  and 
serve  the  gravy  in  a  boat.  Add  any  juices  that  may  remain 
in  the  saucepan  in  which  the  tomatoes  were  cooked.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  parsley,  etc.,  and  serve. 

TO  BROIL   A    BEEFSTEAK. 

BIFTEK. 

The  best  cut  unquestionably  is  the  porter-house  steak  ;  the 
next  best  is  the  sirloin  (of  which  in  turn,  there  is  a  choice  of 
cuts)  ;  this  is  always  a  large  steak,  weighing  from  3  to  4^  lbs., 
and  it  is  not  all  profitable  for  broiling,  there  being  quite  a 
long,  coarse  end  which  is  only  fit  for  stewing,  etc.  The 
second  best  small  steak,  weighing  from  1  to  2  lbs.,  is  the 
rib-steak,  and  also  the  "  short-steak ; "  the  most  nutritious 
and  profitable,  of  course,  is  the  round.  The  latter  must 
always  be  well-beaten  and  broiled  quickly.  If  beaten  enough, 
it  is  excellent,  the  meat  being  much  richer  than  the  finer  cuts. 
The  porter-house  to  be  perfect  should  be  cut  very  thick,  1 
inch  at  least  to  1^. 

If  large,  the  steak  should  under  no  circumstances  be  broiled 
over  the  fire.  Before  beginning,  see  that  the  fire  is  clear 
and  clean.  Place  the  gridiron  where  it  will  heat  very  hot. 
Grease  it.  Lay  the  steak  upon  it,  and  in  about  1  minute 
turn  it  over.  It  must  be  turned  very  often,  one  side  remain- 
ing no  longer  than  the  other.  An  ordinary  steak  f-  of  an  inch 
thick  should  not  require  more  than  8  or  10  minutes,  to  be 
served  done  through,  but  red  and  juicy.  Do  not  pierce  it 
with  a  fork  to  ascertain  if  it  is  done ;  press  it  with  the  flat 


BRAISED  BEEFSTEAK  WITH  BROWN  GRAVY.        103 

side  of  a  knife  or  fork,  and  if  only  slightly  elastic,  it  is  done 
enough.  The  firmer  it  is  under  pressure,  the  more  cooked  it 
is.  It  should  be  served  as  described,  red  and  juicy.  Have 
ready  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  rubbed  up  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  chopped  parsley  and  juice  of  \  a  lemon.  When  the 
steak  is  cooked,  place  it  on  a  hot  platter,  and  butter  it  over 
with  this  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter.  Place  it  in  the  oven  with 
the  door  shut  for  I  minute  to  melt  the  butter  ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  serve.  Of  course  a  large  sirloin  steak 
will  require  longer  to  cook.  If  the  fire  is  very  clear  and  free 
from  gas,  the  small  steaks  may  be  broiled  over  it ;  but  the 
practice  should  be  discouraged  as  much  as  possible,  as  it  is 
the  cause  of  much  black,  smoked  meat,  and  of  a  very  un- 
pleasant flavor  of  coal-gas,  if  not  managed  by  a  careful, 
clever  cook. 

BROILED  STEAK  A  LA  SHREWSBURY. 
Broil  a  thick  porter-house  steak  as  directed.  Select  fine, 
large,  fresh  mushrooms.  Peel  the  tops,  scrape  the  stalk  and 
cut  it  off  about  half  an  inch  from  the  top.  Lay  these  upper- 
side  down  on  a  hot  broiler  and  broil  until  tender ;  they  will 
not  require  more  than  5  minutes.  Turn,  but  broil  longest 
on  the  upper  side.  Have  some  butter  softened  ;  baste  the 
mushrooms  with  this.  Dish  them  around  the  beefsteak. 
Pour  more  butter  over  them  ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve. 

BRAISED  BEEFSTEAK   WITH  BROWN  GRAVY. 

BIFTEK   BRAISE   AUX   HUITRES. 

$}i  lbs.  of  round  steak,  1^  oz.  of  flour, 

2  gills  of  oysters,  3  oz.  of  butter, 

2    "     "water,  1  teaspoon  of  pepper, 

1  gill  of  wine,  3  teaspoons  of  salt, 

2  blades  of  mace,  ^  teaspoon  of  summer  savory, 

3  cloves,  4  allspice,  1  onion,  grated. 

The  beef  must  be  in  one  solid  piece.  The  "  horseshoe  "  or 
"  cross-rib  "  both  being  good  for  this  purpose.  Mix  the  salt, 
pepper,  and  summer  savory  with  the  onion  ;  rub  the  beef  well 


104  GOOD-LIVING. 

with  it  on  both  sides ;  lay  it  in  the  kettle  with  the  water, 
wine,  spices  and  I  oz.  of  the  butter  rubbed  with  half  an  oz. 
of  flour.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  gently  until  the  beef  is 
tender,  which  will  take  from  2  to  3  hours,  or,  if  the  beef  is 
tough,  possibly  a  little  more.  It  must  be  cooked  very  slowly. 
When  tender,  heat  the  frying-pan  very  hot,  melt  in  it  a  little 
piece  of  the  butter ;  lay  the  beef  in  the  butter,  turn  once, 
fiying  until  the  outside  is  browned.  Be  careful  not  to  harden 
it.  Then  fry  the  oysters  in  the  same  pan.  Lay  the  beef  on 
a  platter  with  the  oysters.  Strain  the  gravy  into  the  frying- 
pan  (there  should  be  about  I  pint)  ;  rub  the  rest  of  the  flour 
smooth  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water  ;  stir  it  into  the  boiling 
gravy,  and  boil  for  5  minutes  ;  longer  if  not  quite  thick  enough. 
Pour  over  the  beef  and  serve. 

BEEFSTEAK   PUDDING    OR    POT-PIE. 

Beefsteak  from  the  round,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Butter  and  flour,  6  onions,  parboiled, 

I  teaspoon  of  mushroom  catsup,  yi  gill  of  water. 

The  steak  selected  should  be  pounded  almost  to  a  pulp, 
then  pressed  back  into  a  proper  thickness  and  cut  in  pieces  2 
by  5  inches.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  a  tin 
mould  that  will  hold  I  quart ;  or  use  a  china  bowl  if  pre- 
ferred. Make  a  good  meat-pie  paste  (see  receipts  for  Suet, 
Potato  or  Good  Plain  Paste).  Line  the  mould,  letting  the 
paste  lap  over  the  edge.  Dredge  the  beef  with  flour,  and  lay 
it  in  the  mould  with  the  small  onions  parboiled,  the  catsup 
and  water.  Wet  the  edges  of  the  paste ;  place  a  cover  of 
paste  over;  press  the  edges  together  closely,  and  tie  the 
mould  in  a  clean  cloth.  Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  pot  of 
boiling  water.  Place  the  mould  in  it,  top  uppermost,  and 
boil  for  4  hours.  When  cooked,  turn  it  out  and  serve.  A 
crust  may  be  made  by  mixing  baking-powder  with  flour  .in 
the  proportions  of  I  teaspoonful  of  powder  to  I  cup  of  flour; 
allow  \  a  pound  of  mixed  lard  and  butter  to  I  pound  of  the 
flour.  Crumb  the  butter,  lard  and  flour  together ;  add  enough 
cold  water  to  make  the  paste  just  soft  enough  to  roll  out.    If 


BEEFSTEAK  AND   ONIONS  NO.  II.  105 

this  crust  is  not  rich  enough,  add  a  larger  proportion  of  short- 
ening. Always  sift  the  baking-powder  with  the  flour,  before 
mixing  the  flour  with  the  shortening.  Roll  the  under-crust 
about  \  an  inch  thick,  the  top  crust  I  inch,  or  nearly.  It 
will  swell  of  course ;  but  for  this  sort  of  pie  it  is  well  to  have 
the  crust  thick. 

The  same  receipt  may  be  used  for  Chicken  Pot-pie  or  Veal 
Pot-pie,  using  a  little  ham  with  either,  adding  a  pinch  of 
thyme  to  the  seasoning. 

BEEFSTEAK  SMOTHERED  IN  ONIONS  NO  I. 

Beefsteak,  porter-house  or  round,  Pinch  of  flour, 

6  onions,  cut  fine,  1  pint  of  water, 

2  oz.  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

y^,  teaspoon  of  pepper. 

Stew  the  onions  in  a  saucepan  with  the  water,  butter,  and 
seasonings  ;  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and  stir  it  through  the 
onions.  When  the  onions  are  very  tender,  lay  in  the  sauce- 
pan a  well-broiled  beefsteak,  and  stew  together  for  10  min- 
utes. If  round-steak  is  used,  beat  it  almost  to  a  pulp  with 
the  rolling-pin  ;  cut  off  the  skin,  and,  when  beaten,  press  back 
into  shape  and  into  a  proper  thickness  before  broiling.  Do 
not  on  any  consideration  fry  the  steak.  When  finished, 
dish  the  steak  and  cover  it  all  over  with  the  onions.  The 
onions  will  require  nearly  an  hour  of  very  gentle  stewing  to 
cook  them  tender. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND    ONIONS  NO.   II. 

BIFTEK  AUX   OGNONS. 

2^  lbs.  of  round  steak,  6  or  8  onions,  sliced, 

Butter  or  sweet  drippings,  Flour, 

2  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  Pepper,  and  salt. 

Have  the  steak  cut  from  the  upper  side  of  the  round,  \\ 
to  2  inches  thick.  Heat  an  iron  pot  very  hot  indeed ;  put  in 
a  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  drippings,  and  when  hot  lay  in 
the  steak.  In  3  or  4  minutes  turn  the  steak  on  the  other 
side  and  sear  it  for  about  the  same  time.  Meanwhile  put  I 
tablespoonful  of  butter  or  drippings  into  a  frying-pan  with 


106  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  onions  cut  in  slices  ;  dredge  over  with  flour,  and  fry 
until  slightly  browned.  Turn  them  into  the  pot  with  the 
beef ;  add  salt  and  pepper  and  enough  boiling  water  to  half 
cover  the  beef.  Cover  the  pot.  Bring  to  a  boil  briskly, 
then  set  back  where  it  will  only  simmer  very  gently  for  \\  to 
2  hours.  Or,  you  can  cover  the  pot  very  closely  and  set  it 
in  the  oven  for  the  same  length  of  time,  turning  the  meat 
once.  If  the  fire  is  not  too  strong  the  beef  will  be  very 
tender  cooked  in  this  way.  A  little  boiling  water  may  be 
added  if  the  gravy  evaporates  too  fast.  Dish  the  beefsteak 
with  the  onions  covering  it  completely.  There  should  be 
quite  a  good  quantity  of  gravy  when  it  is  cooked.  Pour  this 
over  also.  N.  B. — This  is  a  Beefsteak  and  Onions  so  deli- 
cate and  inoffensive  that  very  few  can  fail  to  like  it,  where 
the  first  receipt  might  be  found  too  rich. 

SCOTCH  ROLL. 

5  lbs.  flank  of  beef,  I  tablespoon  of  sugar, 

y^,  teaspoon  of  pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  salt, 

1/3  "  "  ground  cloves,  3  "  "  vinegar, 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  1  teaspoon  powdered  summer  savory. 

Remove  the  tough  skin  from  the  flank  ;  even  it  off 
in  thickness  and  shape  with  a  sharp  knife.  Sprinkle  the 
spices,  etc.,  over  it.  Roll  up  and  tie  well  with  a  tape  or 
strips  of  muslin.  Set  aside  12  hours.  Then  put  into  a  stew- 
pan  ;  cover  with  water  and  simmer  3^  hours.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  flour  and  boil  ■§-  an  hour  longer  ;  4  hours 
in  all.  Should  you  prefer  to  use  corn-starch  instead  of  flour 
to  thicken  the  gravy,  add  it  3  minutes  before  removing  from 
the  fire.     This  is  especially  good  eaten  cold. 

HAMBURG  STEAKS. 

Take  1  pound  of  steak  from  the  upper  round;  hackle  or  chop 
it  very  fine.  Add  to  it  I  tablespoonful  of  onion-juice  or  grated 
onion,  \  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  some  pepper ;  mix  well. 
Wet  the  hands  with  cold  water,  and  form  the  meat  into  balls 
of  about  2  tablespoonfuls  each.  This  will  make  about  8. 
Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  a  frying-pan ;  when  it  is 
very  hot,  put  in  the  steaks  ;  in  one  or  two  minutes  turn  them 


BEEF  MARINE.  I07 

over.  Brown  equally  on  both  sides.  In  about  6  minutes 
remove  them  to  a  hot  dish  ;  put  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
into  the  pan  ;  mix  it  smooth  with  the  butter  that  remains 
after  cooking  the  steaks ;  add  \  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir 
until  it  boils  ;  add  salt  and  pepper ;  boil  3  minutes ;  pour 
over  the  steaks  and  serve. 

BEEF  MARINE. 

BCEUF   MARINE. 

4  lbs.  of  beef,  from  round  or  shoulder,  2  bay-leaves, 

4  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  1  onion, 

1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  Juice  of  one  lemon, 

y2  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves,  Cayenne, 

X         "         "       "       mace,  1  teaspoon  of  ground  allspice, 

Yz  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Mix  the  spices,  salt,  and  pepper ;  with  this  rub  both  sides 
of  the  beef;  mix  together  the  oil,  vinegar,  lemon-juice,  and 
melted  butter ;  pour  this  over  the  meat  in  an  earthen  dish. 
Let  stand  24  hours  in  summer ;  longer  if  you  choose,  say  3 
days,  in  winter,  turning,  in  the  former  case  once,  in  the  latter 
once  each  day,  and  keep  in  a  cold  place.  Then  put  it,  with 
all  the  juices  and  spices,  into  a  stewpan  ;  add  the  bay-leaves, 
1  tablespoonful  more  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  I 
clove  of  garlic.  Half  cover  with  boiling  water.  Fry  the 
onions  brown  in  butter ;  add  them  to  the  beef.  Then  mix 
together  until  brown,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  of 
flour ;  blend  with  a  little  boiling  water  and  add  also  to  the 
beef,  stirring  it  in.  Cover  closely  and  set  in  the  oven  for 
about  2  hours,  turning  the  beef  once  when  half-cooked. 
When  ready,  remove  the  beef  to  a  hot  dish ;  set  the  pan  on 
the  top  of  the  range.  If  the  gravy  has  cooked  away  too 
much,  add  a  little  boiling  water ;  stir  it  around  ;  boil  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  fine  strainer ;  put  a  little 
over  the  meat  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat. 

The  "  brisket  "  and  "  plate-piece  "  are  both  best  when  cooked 
in  this  way.  The  latter  is  most  frequently  corned,  in  which 
case  boil  it.  It  must  be  uncorned  to  cook  as  above  directed. 
If  either  of  these  cuts  is  used  the  gravy  must  be  carefully 
skimmed.    Allow  25  to  30  minutes  per  pound. 


108  GOOD-LIVING. 

BEEF  ROULETTE. 

BCEUF  EN   ROULETTE. 

2  lbs.  upper  round,  cut  thin,  2  chopped  onions, 

2  tablespoons  of  flour,  Butter, 

j]/2  pints  boiling  water,  2  cloves, 

}£  teaspoon  of  pepper,  I  cup  of  tomatoes. 

Mix  for  dressing  : 

I  cup  of  chopped  ham,  2  eggs, 

I  teaspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  I  gill  of  stale  bread-crumbs, 

Sufficient  stock  or  water  to  make  a  paste,         Cayenne,  salt. 

Spread  the  dressing  on  the  thin  slices  of  beef.  Roll  up 
and  tie  with  tape  or  strips  of  muslin  firmly  but  not  too 
tightly.  Roll  in  flour.  Fry  to  a  good  color  in  fat  of  pork 
or  ham,  drippings  or  butter.  Put  into  a  saucepan.  Fry  the 
chopped  onions  in  butter  till  yellow.  Add  the  flour.  Stir 
5  minutes  ;  add  the  boiling  water.  Stir.  Pour  over  the 
meat.  Add  the  other  seasonings.  Simmer  gently  for  3 
hours.  Keep  covered.  When  half  done,  turn  over.  Dish ; 
strain  the  gravy  over  and  serve. 

BEEF  ROLL. 

ROULEAU  DE  BCEUF. 

Make  a  rich  biscuit-crust ;  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick ; 
spread  thickly  with  dressing  for  Beef  Roulette,  (see  receipt) 
to  which  add  an  equal  bulk  of  minced  cold  beef  ;  roll  up ; 
put  into  a  long  loaf-pan  with  the  lap  uppermost  and  bake 
about  30  minutes.  When  nearly  done,  draw  it  to  the  mouth 
of  the  oven  ;  brush  over  with  egg  ;  return  to  the  oven  until 
nicely  browned,  and  serve  with  Brown  Sauce.     Excellent. 

OX-  TA ILS  A  LA  TA  R  TA  RE. 

QUEUES  DE  BCEUF  A  LA  TARTARE. 

Cut  the  tails  in  4  inch  lengths.  Boil.  When  done,  re- 
move from  the  fire.  When  cold,  dip  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs 
and  fry  golden  brown.  See  General  Directions  for  Frying. 
Serve  with  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipt). 


KIDNEYS  STEWED.  109 

BEEF  STEW   WITH  OKRA. 

RAGOUT  DE  BGEUF  AU  GUMBO. 

3  lbs.  of  lean  beef,  3  onions,  cut  fine, 

1  quart  of  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  Salt  and  pepper, 

6  ears  of  corn,  cut  and  scraped  from  cob,  2  oz.  of  butter, 

1^  pints  of  okra,  cut  not  too  small. 

Leave  the  beef  in  one  solid  piece.  It  should  be  a  chunky- 
cut  from  the  cross-rib,  horseshoe  or  sirloin-butt.  Place  it 
over  a  moderate  fire  in  a  pot  with  water  enough  to  cover  the 
meat.  Add  the  tomatoes,  okra,  onions,  corn  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  butter  and  stew  very  gently  for  3  or 
4  hours,  until  the  meat  is  perfectly  tender  and  the  vegetables 
have  become  a  thick  pur6e.  Dish  the  beef  in  the  centre  and 
vegetables  around.     N.  B. — A  good  summer  dish. 

SMOKED  BEEF  WITH  CREAM,  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

1  lb.  of  smoked  beef,  cut  thin,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

1%  gills  of  cream,  Pepper. 

Put  the  beef  into  a  saucepan  with  cold  water;  let  it  heat 
slowly.  When  it  comes  to  a  boil  drain  off  the  water.  This 
takes  away  a  good  deal  of  the  salt,  which  is  sometimes  ex- 
cessive. Add  the  cream ;  or  use  instead  the  same  quantity 
of  Cream  or  White  Sauce  (see  receipts).  Season  with  pep- 
per ;  add  a  very  little  salt  if  required.  Simmer  10  minutes 
very  gently,  and  serve  on  slices  of  toast. 

KIDNE  YS  S  TE  WED. 

ROGNONS  DE  BOEUF  SAUTES. 

1  pair  of  kidneys,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

yi  pint  of  stock,  1         "  "  flour, 

Salt  and  pepper,  1         "  "  mushroom  catsup, 

I  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,      4         "  "  sherry, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Be  sure,  first  of  all,  that  the  kidneys  are  perfectly  fresh. 
Split  them  in  half ;  take  out  the  white  fat  and  the  sinew 
from  the  centre.  Put  them  into  a  stewpan  ;  cover  with  cold 
water  and  set  on  a   moderate   fire    until  the  water  almost 


I IO  GOOD-LIVING. 

boils.  Drain  this  water  off ;  cut  into  small  pieces  ;  cover 
again  with  cold  water  and  heat  again.  Do  this  three  times 
in  all,  being  careful  that  the  water  never  really  boils,  or  the 
kidneys  will  harden.  Meanwhile  put  I  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter and  I  of  flour  into  a  frying-pan  and  stir  until  brown  ;  then 
stir  in  gradually  the  boiling  stock  or  water.  Blend  and  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  it  has  boiled  3  minutes.  Add 
Worcestershire  sauce,  catsup,  salt  and  pepper,  and  the 
kidney.  Stir  again  until  the  kidney  is  thoroughly  heated  ; 
remove  from  the  fire  ;  stir  in  the  sherry  and  serve  with 
chopped  parsley  sprinkled  over  the  top.  N.  B. — Take  note 
that  the  kidneys  are  not  allowed  at  any  time  to  boil,  being 
very  much  like  eggs  in  the  fact  that  the  more  they  cook  the 
harder  they  become. 

BEEF'S  LIVER. 

May  be  prepared  according  to  any  of  the  receipts  given 
for  calf's  liver,  if  it  is  directed  to  be  used  in  slices.  Before 
cooking  it,  however,  pour  boiling  water  over  the  slices ; 
allow  them  to  stand  for  5  minutes  ;  then  wipe  dry  and  cook. 

KIDNEYS  A  LA    TERRAPIN. 

ROGNONS   A   LA   TERRAPIN. 

1  kidney,  I  tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  egg,  1  "  "  flour, 

Yz  pint  of  new  milk,  i  "  "  chopped  parsley, 

Salt  and  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  sherry. 

Prepare  the  kidney  as  for  stewing.  When  scalded  3 
times  make  the  following  sauce  :  Stir  together  the  flour  and 
butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  brown  ;  blend 
with  the  boiling  milk  ;  stir  and  boil  3  minutes.  Cut  the  kid- 
ney in  small  slices  or  pieces  ;  add  salt  and  pepper ;  stir 
until  the  kidney  is  thoroughly  heated  ;  remove  from  the 
fire ;  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  the  sherry  and  parsley  ;  serve 
immediately. 


TO  BOIL   A    SMOKED  TONGUE.  Ill 

BRAISED   TONGUE. 

LANGUE  DE   BGEUF   BRAISEE. 

I  fresh  tongue,  boiled  2  hours,  Butter, 

1  quart  of  liquor,  in  which  the  tongue  was  Flour, 
boiled,  i  clove. 

Bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  Salt, 

Small  stick  of  cinnamon,  "  Pepper, 

2  onions,  cut  fine,  Juice  of  i  lemon, 
.1  turnip,     "       "  I  carrot,  cut  fine. 

When  the  tongue  has  been  boiled  as  above  and  trimmed, 
fasten  the  tip  around  against  the  thick  part  (as  you  would 
roll  a  rib-roast),  tying  or  skewering  firmly.  Fry  the  vege- 
tables until  brown  in  butter.  Remove  from  the  pan  and  set 
aside.  Flour  the  tongue  all  over  and  put  into  the  hot  pan 
with  the  butter.  Turn  it  on  all  sides  until  browned  slightly. 
Put  the  tongue  and  all  the  other  ingredients,  except  the 
lemon-juice,  into  a  pot  which  will  fit  in  the  oven.  Close  the 
lid  as  tightly  as  possible  to  keep  in  the  steam.  Place  the 
pot  in  the  oven.  After  \\  hours  open  the  pot,  turn  the 
tongue  and  add  the  lemon-juice.  Close  as  before  and  leave 
\  an  hour  longer  in  the  oven.  Now  put  the  tongue  on  a 
hot  dish  and  set  it  over  hot  water  while  you  boil  down  the 
gravy  for  20  or  30  minutes,  until  of  a  good  strength.  If  it  is 
not  quite  thick  enough,  mix  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  gravy 
and  boil  2  or  3  minutes.  Strain  some  of  the  gravy  over  the 
tongue ;  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat. 

TO  BOIL  A  SMOKED  TONGUE. 

LANGUE  DE  BCEUF  FUMEE. 

Soak  the  tongue  overnight  in  cold  water.  Next  morning 
scrape  and  clean  it  thoroughly.  Put  it  on  the  fire  well-cov- 
ered with  cold  water.  Boil  very  gently  until  the  small  bones 
in  the  root  can  be  easily  pulled  out — about  4  hours.  Then 
lift  off  the  pot  and  set  it  away  until  the  water  is  cold  ;  then 
take  out  the  tongue,  trim  off  the  coarse  unsightly  parts,  skin 


112  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  serve.  Keep  some  of  the  water  in  which  it  has  been 
boiled,  and  when  it  is  put  away  cold,  let  it  be  covered  with 
this,  and  it  will  retain  its  freshness  and  succulence.  Or,  wrap 
it  in  a  coarse,  clean  cloth,  and  put  it  in  the  ice-box. 

JELLIED  TONGUE. 

LANGUE   DE   BCEUF   EN    GELEE. 

Tongue,  Gelatine  (Cox), 

Consomme'  or  Broth,  Wine  and  spices. 

Having  cleared  the  Consomme  (see  receipt),  boil  it  down 
with  a  few  spices  until  strong  and  well-flavored.  If  it  is 
strong  consomme,  made  with  veal,  or  chicken  and  beef,  it 
may  jelly  firmly  enough  when  cold.  If,  however,  you  use 
Broth,  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  I  hour,  allowing 
I  box  of  Cox's  gelatine  to  3  pints  of  liquid.  Pour  the  boil- 
ing broth  over  the  gelatine  ;  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  dissolved.  Strain.  Add  wine  to  taste.  It 
should  measure  at  this  stage  3  pints  for  1  box  of  gelatine. 
Have  ready  a  mould  with  the  cold  boiled  tongue,  either 
whole  or  neatly  sliced  ;  pour  the  jelly  over  and  set  away  to 
harden.     Turn  out  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 

FRESH     TONGUE    BRAISED     WITH    PUREE     OF 
POTATOES. 

LANGUE  DE  BCEUF  BRAISEE  ;   PUREE  DE  POMMES  DE  TERRE. 

Prepare  according  to  receipt  for  Braised  Tongue.  Make  a 
soft  puree  of  potatoes  with  plenty  of  butter  or  rich  cream. 
Lay  a  thick  bed  of  this  on  a  round  platter  and  place  the 
tongue  upon  it.     Serve  with  the  sauce  in  a  boat. 

BRAISED  TONGUE  WITH  SAUCE  TARTARE. 

LANGUE   DE   BCEUF   BRAISEE,  SAUCE   TARTARE. 

Braise  the  tongue  as  directed,  and  serve  with  Sauce  Tartare 
(see  receipt). 


CORN-BEEF.  113 

BRAISED  TONGUE  WITH  PUREE  OF  SPINACH. 

LANGUE   DE    BCEUF   BRAISEE,  PUREE    D'EPINARDS. 

Braise  the  tongue  as  directed.  Serve  on  a  Puree  of 
Spinach  (see  receipt). 

BRAISED  TONGUE   WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

LANGUE   DE   BCEUF    BRAISEE,    SAUCE    TOMATE. 

Braise  the  tongue  as  directed.  Serve  with  a  rich  Tomato 
Sauce  (see  receipt). 

BRAISED  TONGUE   WITH  SAUCE  PIQUANTE. 

LANGUE   DE   BCEUF   BRAISEE,    SAUCE    PIQUANTE. 

Braise  the  tongue  as  directed.  Serve  with  Sauce  Piquante 
(see  receipt). 

BOSTON  BROWN  HASH  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Chop  any  remnants  of  steak,  roast,  or  stew  very  fine.  Put 
a  layer  of  mashed  potatoes  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep  buttered 
dish ;  then  a  layer  of  the  meat,  then  a  layer  of  stale  bread- 
crumbs. Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper ;  dot  the  top  with 
bits  of  butter  ;  moisten  with  \  a  cupful  of  gravy ;  cover  with 
another  layer  of  potatoes.  Smooth  the  top  with  a  knife 
dipped  in  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes  until 
well-browned.     Serve  hot. 

HASH  BAKED  IN  A  MOULD. 

Prepare  the  meat  as  for  Corn-Beef  Hash.  Butter  a  quart 
mould;  pack  the  hash  in  it  and  bake  1  hour  in  the  oven. 
Turn  it  out  and  serve. 

CORN-BEEF. 

The  most  popular  cut  for  this  is  the  rump,  a  three-cor- 
nered piece  with  sweet  fat,  but  at  least  one  third  bone.  The 
best  and  most  profitable,  as  well  as  the  most  delicate,  cut,  is 


1 14  GOOD-LIVING. 

that  from  the  lower  round  ;  a  long,  narrow  piece  perfectly 
free  from  bone,  and  much  more  sightly.  It  costs  a  little 
more  per  pound,  but  it  is  quite  worth  the  difference.  The 
plate  and  navel  pieces  are  also  excellent  in  their  own  way,  but 
should  be  eaten  cold,  not  hot. 

Put  the  corn-beef  down  to  boil  in  a  large  pot  of  cold 
water.  Let  it  be  well  covered.  Bring  it  gradually  to  a  boil. 
When  well  started,  set  aside  to  cook  very  gently — simmer, 
not  boil.  Allow  20  to  25  minutes  to  the  pound,  counting 
from  the  time  when  the  water  begins  to  boil.  Calculate  the 
time,  and  when  it  is  within  2  hours  of  being  cooked,  add  2 
or  3  turnips,  carrots,  celery  leaves,  1  or  2  onions,  or  1  clove 
of  garlic.  Finish  the  cooking.  Dish  with  the  vegetables 
around.  Keep  the  water  in  which  the  beef  has  boiled.  When 
it  is  ready  to  be  set  away,  return  it  to  the  pot  of  broth ;  cover 
and  set  away  to  cool.  The  difference  made  by  this  system  is 
incredible,  the  beef  being  deliciously  tender  when  served  cold. 
If  not  too  salt,  use  the  broth  as  soup  with  a  puree  of  potatoes, 
beans,  or  peas,  etc.  Serve  the  beef,  if  liked,  with  cabbage,  but 
never  boil  the  cabbage  with  the  beef,  as  it  renders  both  very 
indigestible.  To  be  good,  corn-beef  should  be  boiled  until  as 
tender  as  chicken.  The  secret  of  this  is,  to  cook  it  slowly 
and  long. 

CORN-BEEF  HASH. 

Chop  the  meat  fine,  rejecting  all  hard  gristle.  Add  half 
the  bulk  of  potatoes  chopped  not  too  fine.  (N.  B.  The  pota- 
toes for  this  should  always  be  boiled  with  their  skins  on  and 
not  allowed  to  be  peeled  until  they  are  cold.)  Put  into  a 
saucepan  a  lump  of  butter  as  large  as  an  egg,  for  a  moderate 
amount  of  hash.  Add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water ; 
when  bubbling,  put  in  the  meat  and  potatoes  mixed,  very 
little  salt  and  plenty  of  pepper.  Let  it  heat ;  stir  now  and 
again,  but  be  careful  not  to  mash  the  potatoes.  Then  let  it 
stand  still  10  or  15  minutes  until  it  forms  a  crust  at  the 
bottom.  Form  it  into  a  neat  loaf  shape.  Do  not  let  it  get 
too  dry.     Loosen  it  from  the  pan  with  a  cake  turner  ,•  turn  a 


CORN-BEEF  CROQUETTES.  1 15 

warm  platter  over  it ;  turn  pan  and  dish  together  quickly  and 
serve.  Only  put  toast  under  if  the  hash  is  scant  in  quantity 
or  not  browned.  A  half  onion  grated  is  esteemed  by  some 
a  valuable  addition  ;  if  used,  see  that  it  is  grated  and  not 
chopped,  as  the  common  practice  is  :  and  a  mistaken  one  it  is 
too,  for  the  onion,  of  course,  remains  quite  raw.  A  few 
tablespoonfuls  of  stewed  tomatoes  and  a  few  celery  and 
parsley  leaves  chopped  very  fine  make  a  delicious  addition  to 
the  above.     Recommended. 

Chicken  Hash  may  be  prepared  as  above,  without  brown- 
ing; also  Turkey  Hash. 

CORN-BEEF  CROQUETTES. 

1%  lbs.  of  mashed  potatoes,  10  oz.  of  beef,  chopped  fine, 

iyi  oz.  of  butter,  4  oz.  of  stale  bread  or  cracker, 

y£  gill  of  cream,  I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  Salt  and  pepper, 

2  eggs,  Cup  of  lard. 

Pass  the  potato  through  a  colander.  When  the  beef  is 
chopped  very  fine,  add  the  butter  to  the  hot  potato,  then  the 
cream,  1  egg,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Beat  thoroughly 
together.  Now  mix  the  beef  (without  gristle)  with  the  rest ; 
make  it  into  rolls  1X2  inches  long.  (Be  sure  the  surface 
is  smooth.)  Place  them  on  a  floured  tin  and  let  them  stand 
in  the  ice-box  while  you  beat  the  other  egg  and  prepare  the 
bread-  or  cracker-crumbs,  sifting  the  latter.  Roll  the  cro- 
quettes first  in  the  egg,  then  in  bread-crumbs,  and  let  them 
stand  1  or  2  hours,  if  you  have  time.  Bring  the  lard  to 
a  boil.  It  should  be  2  inches  deep  in  the  pan.  Lay  the 
croquettes  in  the  frying-basket,  and  when  you  are  sure  the 
lard  is  boiling,  plunge  them  in.  (See  General  Directions  for 
Frying.)  Fry  golden  brown.  Drain  dry.  Serve  with 
parsley  and  lemon,  on  a  folded  napkin.     Excellent. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 

GENERAL  REMARKS   ON   MUTTON. 

The  great  point  of  having  mutton  sufficiently  mature 
before  cooking  becomes  quite  a  perplexing  question  in 
summer,  when  the  meat  is  liable  to  spoil  before  it  has  been 
hung  long  enough  to  become  tender.  If  you  are  in  the 
country,  the  following  simple  and  most  effective  mode  of 
treatment  may  be  possible  for  you  to  practise.  It  has  been 
followed,  within  my  own  experience,  very  frequently,  and 
with  perfectly  satisfactory  results. 

The  day  before  you  wish  to  use  the  piece  of  mutton,  be  it 
leg  or  saddle,  have  a  hole  dug  in  the  garden,  wrap  your 
mutton  in  a  clean,  white  cloth,  lay  it  deep  down  in  the  hole, 
cover  the  earth  tightly  over  it  and  leave  it  until  next  morn- 
ing. Then  dig  it  out,  set  it  in  a  cool  place  where  it  can  not 
spoil,  and  cook  it  for  dinner.  If  a  leg,  it  will  be  further 
improved  by  being  very  thoroughly  beaten  with  the  rolling- 
pin  on  all  sides.  It  is  quite  remarkable  how  the  burying 
process  will  shorten  the  fibre  of  the  meat  and  produce  the 
same  results  as  are  obtained  by  hanging  for  days  at  a  cooler 
season  of  the  year. 

Note. — Never  attempt  to  keep  mutton  without  cooking 
after  it  has  been  beaten. 

The  directions  given  for  the  time  in  cooking  mutton  (see 

Time-Table)  are  based  upon  the  consideration  that,  being  a 

dark  meat,  it  should  always  be  served  underdone.     Those 

who  prefer  it  cooked   brown  all  through  should  allow  12  or 

116 


BOAST  LEG   OF  MUTTON.  WJ 

15  minutes  to  the  pound  instead  of  10  in  roasting,  also  in 
boiling  and  broiling. 

ROAST  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

GIGOT   DE   MOUTON   ROTI. 

Select  a  large  leg  of  Canada  mutton.  Let  it  hang,  accord- 
ing to  the  weather,  as  long  as  it  will  keep  sweet.  In  winter, 
with  care  and  favorable  weather,  it  can  sometimes  hang  6 
weeks  and  be  all  the  better  for  it ;  of  course  the  same  is  not 
the  case  in  summer  (see  General  Remarks  on  Mutton ).  A 
good  leg  should  weigh  at  least  10  pounds  cut  close — that  is, 
without  any  of  the  loin  attached.  Having  hung  it  as  long  as 
possible,  lay  it  on  a  board,  and  with  the  rolling-pin,  beat  the 
entire  leg  all  over  until  it  feels  very  tender  under  pressure. 
Let  the  blows  be  very  heavy  and  do  not  spare  them.  This 
is  the  French  method,  and  when  you  have  once  tried  it, 
(especially  upon  a  leg  of  whose  tenderness  you  have  enter- 
tained doubts),  you  will  be  amazed  that  it  is  not  made  a 
general  practice.  Have  your  oven  very  hot.  Put  the  leg 
into  a  baking-pan  with  the  knuckle  turned  up  a  little ; 
skewer  it  in  place  if  necessary.  Rub  it  all  over  with  flour ; 
introduce  a  clove  of  garlic  into  the  hock-end  near  the  bone, 
if  liked  ;  put  dots  of  drippings  or  butter  on  the  top,  and 
a  large  lump  in  the  pan.  Put  it  into  the  oven  for  about  20 
minutes,  or  until  it  begins  to  brown  nicely  ;  at  the  end 
of  this  time,  if  the  meat  is  sufficiently  brown,  turn  off  the 
excessive  heat,  but  do  not  cool  the  oven  too  much.  If 
in  danger  of  browning  too  much,  cover  it  with  an  inverted 
pan.  Baste  very  frequently.  After  the  first  half  hour,  you 
may  add  a  very  little  boiling  water,  not  more  than  I  gill,  to 
the  pan.  If  it  steams  away,  add  again  more,  but  very  little 
at  a  time.  Allow  10  minutes  per  lb.,  which  would  make  the 
leg  of  10  lbs.  sufficiently  cooked  in  1  hour  and  40  minutes. 
It  should  be  underdone  when  served.  Remove  the  meat 
from  the  pan  to  a  hot  dish  ;  place  the  pan  on  the  top  of  the 
range ;  add  a  very  little  boiling  water  ;  stir  it  around  to  detach 


Il8  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  particles  and  juices  ;  skim  and  strain  into  a  boat.  Garnish 
the  dish  with  parsley,  and  put  a  frill  of  cut  paper  on  the  bone. 

As  an  excellent  addition  to  the  above,  peel  and  boil  I 
dozen  small  turnips  until  almost  tender ;  cut  them  in  halves 
and  lay  them  in  the  pan  with  the  roasting  mutton  30  or  40 
minutes  before  this  latter  should  be  served.  When  you  dish 
the  mutton,  put  a  circle  of  these  browned  turnips  around  it, 
and  serve  with  the  gravy  as  above.  Avoid  thickening  the 
gravies  of  roasted  meats  ;  this  is  a  common  and  shocking 
practice  in  our  country.  The  ordinary  cook  thickens  them 
with  a  bitter  preparation  of  burnt  flour,  which  utterly  de- 
stroys the  true  flavor  of  the  meat.  There  can  be  nothing 
more  wholesome  or  better,  surely,  than  the  juice  of  the  meat 
itself,  especially  that  which  runs  from  it  in  carving. 

N.  B. — Never  pierce  your  roasted  meat  with  a  fork  before 
it  is  cut  at  the  table.  You  can  ascertain  quite  sufficiently  by 
pressure  if  the  meat  is  cooked,  without  piercing  it  and  th*us 
allowing  it  to  bleed.  If  well  cooked  and  handled,  the  juice 
should  almost  spout  from  a  leg  of  mutton,  when  carved,  be 
it  roasted  or  boiled. 

ROAST  SADDLE  OF  MUTTON. 

SELLE   DE   MOUTON   ROTIE. 

Having  selected  the  saddle  very  carefully  and  hung  or 
buried  it  (see  General  Remarks  on  Mutton)  until  perfect, 
wipe  it  clean ;  put  it  in  a  roasting-pan  with  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  boiling  water.  Dredge  the  top  with  flour,  dot  with  sweet 
drippings,  and  bake  in  a  very  quick  oven,  allowing  about  9 
minutes  to  the  pound,  as  the  saddle  is  considered  properly 
cooked  only  when  very  underdone.  Baste  frequently.  Gar- 
nish the  tail  with  a  frill  of  cut  paper;  put  slices  of  lemon 
and  parsley  around  and  serve  very  hot,  with  the  pan-gravy 
skimmed  in  the  sauce-boat.  Serve  currant  jelly  at  the  same 
time. 

Note. — The  plates  on  which  the  mutton  is  served  should 
be  very  hot. 


BRAISED   LEG   OF  MUTTON.  II9 

ROAST  LOIN  OF  MUTTON. 

FILET   DE   MOUTON   ROTI. 

Follow  exactly  the  directions  for  Roast  Saddle  of  Mut- 
ton, allowing  8  minutes  to  the  pound  for  a  small  loin. 

BOILED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

GIGOT   DE   MOUTON    BOUILLI,   SAUCE  AUX   CAPRES. 

Leg  of  mutton,  1  bay-leaf, 

Sprig  of  thyme,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Have  ready  a  clean  cloth  in  which  roll  the  leg  of  mutton 
with  the  seasonings.  Have  a  pot  on  the  fire  with  boiling 
water  sufficient  to  cover  the  meat.  Be  sure  the  water  is 
boiling.  Put  in  the  leg,  and  keep  on  a  steady  but  gentle 
boil  until  done,  allowing  1 5  minutes  to  every  pound  of  meat, 
calculating  from  the  time  the  water  comes  again  to  a  boil. 
Do  not  let  it  "rack"  at  any  time.  When  done,  remove  the 
cloth  and  serve  with  Caper  Sauce  (see  receipt),  or  with  a 
Pur6e  of  Turnips  (see  receipt). 

N.  B. — If  the  meat  appears  tough  before  cooking,  beat  it 
smartly  for  a  few  minutes  with  a  rolling-pin. 

BRAISED  LEG  OF  MUTTON. 

GIGOT   BRAISE  AUX    NAVETS. 

Having  beaten  it  well,  proceed  as  directed  in  receipt  for 
Plain  Braise,  if  you  wish  to  insure  making  a  tough  leg 
good  eating,  and  have  it  appear  as  though  it  had  been 
roasted ;  or,  proceed  as  directed  in  receipt  for  Beef  a  la 
Mode,  omitting  the  larding ;  in  this  case  the  bone  should 
be  removed  and  the  space  thus  left  filled  with  force-meat  or 
dressing.  If  the  latter,  serve  with  turnips  peeled,  parboiled, 
and  finished  for  at  least  1  hour  with  the  mutton ;  this  is 
highly  recommended. 


120  GOOD-LIVING. 

BREAST  OF  MUTTON  A  U  GRA  TIN. 

POITRINE   DE   MOUTON   AU    GRATIN. 

Breast  of  mutton,  Parsley  and  sweet  herbs, 

I  onion,  Bread-crumbs, 

I  egg,  Butter, 

Pepper,  salt,  Cayenne. 

Boil  the  breast  of  mutton  slowly  until  you  can  draw  out 
the  bones  easily.  This  will  take  i^  to  2  hours,  according 
to  the  age  of  the  mutton.  Remove  it  from  the  fire ;  take 
out  all  the  bones,  without  breaking  the  meat  in  pieces.  Lay 
it  between  2  dishes  under  a  weight  overnight.  Next  day, 
stand  it  in  the  oven  until  warm ;  score  the  top  and  rub  in  a 
mixture  made  of  1  egg,  chopped  parsley,  grated  onion,  pow- 
dered herbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Over  all, 
sift  fine  bread-crumbs ;  put  dots  of  butter  over  the  crumbs 
and  set  in  the  oven  until  well-browned,  or  from  20  to  30 
minutes,  if  the  oven  is  not  too  hot.  Serve  with  Sauce 
Poivrade  (see  receipt),  or  with  Mushroom  Sauce. 

N.  B. — If  you  will  put  2  carrots,  1  turnip,  2  or  3  onions,  all 
cut  in  pieces,  and  other  seasonings  in  the  pot  when  you  boil 
the  mutton  first,  you  will  have  an  excellent  soup,  if  it  is 
allowed  to  boil  down  sufficiently.  Add  a  little  rice  or  barley 
to  the  soup  when  you  remove  the  mutton. 

BROILED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 

COTELETTES   DE   MOUTON   GRILLEES. 

Use  the  breast  chops  for  daintiness  and  appearance ;  or 
the  loin  chops  for  sweetness  and  solidity ;  the  former 
"frenched,"  the  latter  trimmed  neatly  and  the  tails  cut  off. 
The  loin  chops  should  be  cut  1  inch  thick;  the  French 
chops  rather  thinner.  Beat  them  with  a  few  heavy,  firm 
strokes  of  the  rolling-pin.  Have  the  gridiron  heated  very 
hot.  Broil  under  a  bright,  clear  fire.  Grease  the  gridiron. 
Lay  the  chops  upon  it,  and  in  a  few  seconds  turn  them,  that 
they  may  become  instantly  seared  and  preserve  their  juices. 


BREADED   MUTTON  CHOPS.  121 

Continue  to  turn  frequently,  never  allowing  one  side  to  re- 
main longer  than  the  other  exposed  to  the  fire.  This  is  the 
secret  of  broiling  well :  a  clear,  scorching  fire,  and  constant 
attention,  turning  very  frequently.  As  soon  as  the  meat 
feels  at  all  firm  under  the  pressure  of  the  fork  (do  not  pierce 
it)  the  chops  are  cooked.  Butter  them  thickly  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt.  If  French  chops,  put  frilled  papers 
on  the  handles  and  dish  in  a  circle,  one  overlapping  the 
other,  with  a  puree  of  some  kind  in  the  centre.  Loin 
chops  are  preferred  for  breakfast ;  the  smaller  French  chops 
for  dinner. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS. 

These  are  slices  cut  from  the  thick  part  of  the  leg,  and 
are  most  excellent.  Beat  as  described  above ;  remove  the 
outer  skin  and  broil  as  directed  for  mutton  chops.  Serve 
with  a  puree  of  spinach  as  a  garnish.  Lamb  cutlets  are  also 
excellent  with  fresh  peas. 

BREADED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 

CUTELETTES   DE    MOUTON   PANEES. 

For  this  purpose  use  only  the  rib-chops.  Have  them 
"frenched  " — that  is,  the  handles  cleaned  and  eyes  trimmed. 
Beat  with  a  few  vigorous  strokes  of  the  rolling-pin.  Dip 
them  on  all  sides  in  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  dip  in  fine  bread-crumbs.  Let  them  stand  an 
hour,  if  possible,  in  the  ice-box  to  dry.  Bring  some  lard  to 
a  boil.  It  should  be  deep  enough  to  cover  the  chops.  Lay 
them  in  and  fry  until  golden  brown  and  moderately  firm 
under  pressure,  turning  once.  They  should  require  about  6 
or  8  minutes  to  cook,  being  served  underdone. 

Or,  sear  the  chops  in  a  hot  pan  with  a  little  butter — that  is, 
lay  them  first  one  side  then  the  other  for  about  two  minutes 
each  ;  when  cold,  dip  in  eggy  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs,  and 
after  letting  them  stand  about  I  hour,  fry  them  until  golden 
brown  in  boiling  hot  lard.     Test  the  lard,  arid  be  certain  it  is 


122  GOOD-LIVING. 

hot  enough,  or  the  chops  will  be  greasy  and  not  a  success. 
Have  ready  frills  for  the  handles ;  slip  these  on ;  dish  in 
a  circle,  overlapping  each  other ;  put  fresh  green  peas  in  the 
centre  and  parsley  around.     Serve. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  EN  PAPILLOTE. 

COTELETTES    DE    MOUTON    EN    PAPILLOTES. 

y2  lb.  sausage  meat,  i  yolk  of  egg, 

i  onion,  chopped,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

6  loin  chops,  I  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Melt  half  of  the  butter  in  the  frying-pan  ;  when  hot,  sear 
the  chops  quickly  on  both  sides.  Take  them  out.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  remainder  of  the  butter, 
onion,  and  sausage  into  the  pan.  Stir  for  15  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  yolk  of  egg  and 
parsley.  Have  ready  6  pieces  of  white  paper,  cut  into  the 
shape  of  a  heart,  large  enough  to  hold  1  chop  each.  Put  I 
tablespoonful  of  the  force-meat  on  one  side  of  the  paper ;  lay 
the  chop  on  this ;  lay  another  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture 
upon  the  chop,  and  fold  the  other  half  of  the  paper  over  this. 
The  edges  should  then  be  folded  together  neatly  and  tightly, 
one  over  the  other.  Place  them  in  a  roasting-pan  in  the  oven 
for  15  minutes.  Serve  in  the  papers,  with  a  Bechamel 
Sauce  (see  receipt). 

N.  B. — The  folding  should  be  done  very  neatly  and  evenly ; 
the  papillotes  must  all  look  exactly  alike.  Serve  the  sauce 
in  a  boat. 

Chops  of  any  kind  may  be  treated  in  the  same  way. 

BROWNED  MUTTON  CURRY. 

1  pint  of  finely  chopped  cold  mutton,  I  gill  of  rice, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  egg, 

1  "  "   flour,  2  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

1  "  "  curry-powder,  Salt  to  taste. 

Wash  the  rice-.     Put  it  into  the  boiling  water  and  boil  for 


BRAISED   MUTTON   CHOPS.  1 23 

25  minutes.  Drain  in  a  colander.  Put  the  butter  into  a 
frying-pan  with  the  flour ;  stir  smooth,  then  add  by  degrees 
2  gills  of  boiling  water ;  stir  smooth  again.  When  boiling, 
add  the  meat,  curry,  and  salt.  Stir  for  10  minutes.  Heap 
the  mixture  in  the  centre  of  a  fire-proof  flat  dish ;  make  a 
border  of  the  rice  around  the  meat,  brush  all  over  with 
beaten  egg,  and  place  in  the  oven  until  browned,  from  5  to 
10  minutes. 

BRAISED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 

COTELETTES   DE   MOUTON   A   LA   JARDINIERE. 

8  mutton  chops,  1  turnip,  cut  fine, 

Butter,  broth,  1  onion  or  leek,  cut  fine, 

Pepper,  ,  1  stick  of  celery,    "      " 

Salt,  1  carrot,  cut  fine. 

If  you  have  chops  of  whose  tenderness  you  have  doubts, 
this  receipt  is  most  useful  and  excellent.  Use  breast  chops. 
They  should  be  "  frenched,"as  the  butchers  say — that  is,  the 
bone  stripped  clean.  Pound  the  chops  with  a  heavy  knife 
on  both  sides.  Have  the  vegetables  ready,  fried  in  butter 
till  slightly  brown,  and  then  simmered  until  half  done  with 
a  few  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  added  to  the  pan, 
about  15  minutes.  Take  a  saucepan  (or  bake -pan  is  better) 
which  you  can  cover  air-tight.  Lay  the  vegetables  in  the 
bottom.  Sear  the  chops  in  the  hot  frying-pan  only  just  long 
enough  to  slightly  brown  one  side,  then  the  other.  Lay 
them  on  the  bed  of  vegetables,  and  add  just  enough  broth 
to  cover  them.  Put  the  pan  in  the  oven,  tightly  covered, 
for  30  minutes.  Dish  them  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  in 
a  circle  with  the  vegetables  around.  Put  the  pan  on  the 
top  of  the  range ;  boil  down  the  gravy  rapidly  for  a  few  mo- 
ments ;  strain  it  over  the  chops,  and  serve.  If  desired,  the 
sauce  may  be  thickened  with  a  pinch  of  corn-starch,  blended 
with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water.  Boil  3  minutes,  stirring 
constantly,  and  strain  as  above.     Recommended. 


124  GOOD-LIVING. 

MUTTON  CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES   DE    MOUTON. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Corn-beef  Croquettes  (see  receipt). 
Or,  as  follows : 

2  gills  of  mutton,  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

2    "     of  macaroni,  chopped,  i  tablespoon  of  butter, 

2     "     of  boiling  milk,  Curry-powder  to  taste, 

Salt  and  pepper,  i  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  boiling  milk,  blended  with  the  flour 
and  butter.  Stir,  and  let  it  boil  until  very  thick.  Add  the 
curry,  rubbed  smooth.  Have  ready  the  mutton,  etc.  Do 
not  chop  the  macaroni  too  fine.  Mix  all  together,  seasoning 
to  taste.  Set  away  to  cool.  Then  roll  as  directed  for 
Chicken  Croquettes  (see  receipt),  and  fry  in  boiling  lard 
(see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  Rice  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  macaroni,  if  preferred.      Excellent. 

CURRIED  MUTTON. 

MOUTON    AU    KARL 

Boil  a  shoulder  of  mutton  whole  until  tender,  adding 
to  the  water  various  seasonings,  carrot,  onion,  etc.  When 
perfectly  tender  (the  length  of  cooking  being  dependent 
upon  the  age  of  the  mutton),  cut  it  into  2-inch  dice.  Rub 
together  2  tablespoonfuls  each  of  flour  and  butter;  add  to 
these  i  pint  of  the  boiling  broth  in  which  the  mutton  was 
cooked.  Stir.  Boil  2  minutes.  Add  about  I  teaspoonful 
of  curry-powder  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  of  the  sauce, 
salt,  and  pepper.  Put  the  meat  into  the  sauce  and  simmer 
gently  15  minutes.  Make  a  Rice  Border  (see  receipt) ;  dish 
the  mutton  curry  in  the  centre ;  sprinkle  chopped  parsley 
over  the  top,  and  serve.  A  little  lemon-juice  may  be  added 
to  the  sauce,  if  liked.  (Mashed  potato  may  be  substituted 
for  the  rice.)  Excellent.  The  broth  in  which  the  mutton 
has  boiled  will  make  good  soup,  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
rice  or  barley. 


TURCSICUS  (OLD-FASHIONED  RECEIPT).  1 25 

IRISH  STEW. 

HARICOT   DE    MOUTON. 

2  lbs.  of  shoulder  or  scrag  of  mutton,  1%  pints  of  cold  water, 

2     "of  potatoes,  cut  in  quarters,  2  sliced  onions, 

2  sticks  of  celery  or  fresh  celery  leaves,  2      "       carrots, 

Bunch  of  parsley,  2      ' '      turnips, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Choose  by  preference  the  shoulder,  which  you  can  cut  in 
pieces  3  inches  square,  being  careful  that  the  butcher  does 
not  splinter  the  bones.  The  next  best  is  the  "  rack,"  with  the 
meat  cut  in  pieces  at  the  joints.  Put  all  together  into  an  iron 
pot  and  stew  very  gently  for  about  2  hours.  The  really  well- 
made  Irish  Stew  is  excellent,  and  for  this  the  potatoes  must 
be  cooked  until  they  begin  to  dissolve  and  thicken  the  gravy. 
When  done,  dish  it  very  carefully,  as  otherwise  its  appear- 
ance is  unappetizing.  Put  the  meat  in  the  centre,  the  thick 
part  of  the  vegetables  around,  and  the  sauce  over  all.  If 
desired,  Dumplings  may  be  made  (see  receipts)  and  added  to 
the  boiling  gravy  when  the  meat  has  been  removed.  Cover 
and  boil  12  minutes.  Be  careful  that  the  gravy  does  not 
scorch,  as  it  does  easily  under  these  circumstances. 

TURCSICUS  (OID-FASHIONED  RECEIPT). 

2  quarts  of  minced  lean  mutton,  Water  in  which  the  mutton  was  boiled, 

3  "       of  boiling  water,  1  cup  of  rice, 
White  cabbage  leaves,                                  ^  lb.  of  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Parboil  the  mutton  before  mincing  it,  and  save  the  broth. 
Wash  the  rice  and  soak  it  a  few  minutes.  Put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  3  quarts  of  boiling  water ;  boil  15  minutes, 
until  the  rice  is  rather  tender  but  not  quite  cooked  ;  drain  it 
perfectly  dry  and  set  it  away  to  cool.  When  the  mutton  is 
chopped  very  fine,  mix  it  with  about  an  equal  bulk  of  the 
rice;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  the  butter.  Mix. 
Separate  the  leaves  of  a  white  cabbage  ;  put  some  of  the 
minced  meat  into  each  leaf ;    tie  it  in  shape  like  an  apple- 


126  GOOD-LIVING. 

dumpling,  folding  the  leaf  so  that  the  stuffing  will  not  come 
out.  Tie  it  securely.  Bring  the  mutton-broth  to  a  boil. 
Tie  the  "  Turcsicus  Dumplings  "  in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth 
or  muslin,  and  boil  gently  for  30  minutes.  Handle  very 
carefully  when  removing  from  the  fire.  Untie  the  cloth, 
remove  the  tapes  or  strings,  and  serve  with  melted  butter 
in  the  sauce-boat.     The  receipt  adds  "  eat  and  be  thankful." 

MUTTON  AND   MACARONI  BROWNED. 

MOUTON   AU    MACARONI. 

2  oz.  of  macaroni,  i  gill  of  milk, 

%  lb.  of  cold  mutton,  I  teaspoon  of  curry-powder, 

i}4.  oz.  of  butter,  Salt  to  taste, 

2  eggs. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted  boiling  water  until  just  tender 
(about  20  minutes).  Drain  and  set  away  to  cool.  Chop  the 
cold  meat ;  mix  with  it  1  ounce  of  butter,  the  curry,  salt,  I 
beaten  egg,  and  the  milk.  Cut  the  macaroni  into  |-inch  bits 
and  mix  lightly  with  the  mutton.  Butter  a  pie-plate  or  sheet 
of  tin  and  form  the  mixture  into  a  neat,  oval  mass  in  the 
centre ;  spread  \  an  ounce  of  butter  over  it  and  put  it  into 
the  oven.  When  heated,  cover  it  with  a  beaten  egg  seasoned 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  2  of  curry.  Scatter  crumbs  over  the 
top  and  set  it  in  the  oven  till  brown,  5  to  10  minutes.  Re- 
move carefully  to  a  dish ;  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve. 
This  dish  may  be  more  highly  seasoned  if  liked. 

MUTTON  ROLL. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Beef  Roll  (see  receipt).  Serve  with 
Brown  Sauce.     Recommended. 

SHEPHERD'S   PIE. 

1  lb.  of  cold  mutton,  Salt, 

1  large  teaspoon  of  butter,  Pepper, 

1  gill  of  stock  or  water,  I  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes. 

Cut  the  mutton  and  potatoes  into  i-inch  dice  ;  put  them 


KIDNEYS  BREADED.  \2J 

into  a  deep  dish ;  add  the  stock,  pepper,  salt,  and  the  butter 
cut  into  bits. 

CRUST. 

4  medium-sized  potatoes,  }(  cup  of  cream, 

I  large  teaspoon  of  butter,         Salt, 
Flour.  Pepper. 

Pare  and  boil  the  potatoes  ;  mash  them  and  add  the  cream, 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  beat  very  light.  Now  add 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  about  I  cupful.  Roll  it 
into  a  thick  sheet.  With  this  cover  the  top  of  the  dish  of 
meat ;  make  an  x  hole  in  the  centre  for  the  steam  to  escape ; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  I  hour  and  serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  was  baked.  Boiled  rice  may  be  substituted  for 
mashed  potato,  using  the  same  quantity.  The  addition  to 
the  pie  of  ^  an  onion  grated  is  a  further  improvement. 

SHEEP'S   KIDNEYS  EN  BROCHETTE. 

ROGNONS    EN    BROCHETTE. 

6  kidneys,  j£  lb.  of  bacon,  sliced  thin, 

i  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Cut  each  kidney  through  the  centre,  removing  veins  and 
muscle  ;  wash  in  cold  water.  Cover  with  boiling  water  ;  let 
stand  5  minutes ;  then  wipe  dry.  Take  a  plated  or  silver 
skewer  if  you  have  it,  otherwise  an  ordinary  one.  Run  a 
slice  of  bacon  on  this,  then  a  kidney,  and  so  on  until  the 
skewer  is  filled.  Place  on  a  hot  broiler  for  5  minutes  over  a 
very  hot  fire,  basting  with  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve  on  the  skewer  for  breakfast.  Chopped 
parsley  and  lemon-juice  may  be  added. 

KIDNEYS  BREADED. 

ROGNONS    DE    MOUTON   PANES. 
Bread  the  kidney,  and  broil  as  above. 


128  GOOD-LIVING. 

ROAST  LAMB  AND  MINT  SAUCE. 

QUARTIER    D'AGNEAU  ROTI,  SAUCE    MENTHE. 

Select  a  fresh  and  white  hindquarter  of  lamb.  Wipe  it 
off  and  roast  it  exactly  as  directed  for  Roast  Leg  of  Mutton, 
allowing  about  18  minutes  to  the  pound.  Serve  with  a  cold 
Mint  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

BROILED  LAMB  CHOPS. 

COTELETTES   D'AGNEAU    GRILLEES. 

See  Broiled  Mutton  Chops,  cooking  until  nearly  firm  under 
pressure. 

CURRIED  LAMB. 
See  Curried  Mutton. 

BRALSED  BREAST  OF  LAMB. 

POITRINE   D'AGNEAU    BRAISEE. 

Shoulder  and  breast  of  lamb,  boned,  I  carrot,  cut  fine, 

Parsley,  I  turnip,    "      " 

Bread-crumbs,  I  onion,  cut  fine, 

Butter,  I  onion,  grated, 

l/z  can  of  tomatoes,  I  clove  of  garlic, 

Pepper,  salt,  Thyme,  and  spices  to  taste. 

Have  the  butcher  remove  all  the  bones  from  the  lamb. 
Lay  it  on  a  board ;  wipe  it  carefully  with  a  damp  cloth. 
Have  ready  plenty  of  soft  tape  or  strips  of  muslin.  Prepare 
a  dressing  of  dried  bread-crumbs  fried  in  butter,  adding 
grated  onion,  parsley,  thyme,  and  spices  to  taste.  Put  the 
dressing  into  the  open  side  of  the  breast  of  lamb  ;  roll  up 
neatly  and  tie  with  the  tape,  securing  the  ends  well,  that  the 
dressing  may  not  fall  out  in  the  cooking.  Fry  the  vegetables 
in  butter.  Heat  an  iron  pot  very  hot ;  put  into  it  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  drippings  or  butter;  when  very  hot,  put 
in  the  roll  and  brown  it  on  all  sides  lightly.  Add  the  fried 
vegetables  and  only  just  enough  boiling  water  or  broth  to 


STEWED  LAMBS'    TONGUES.  1 29 

half-cover  the  meat ;  add  the  tomatoes ;  stew  gently  from  2 
to  3  hours  or  more,  according  to  the  size  of  the  roll.  Dish 
with  the  vegetables  around.  The  sauce  may  be  boiled  down 
rapidly  for  a  few  minutes  and  thickened  with  a  pinch  of  corn- 
starch blended  with  cold  water,  or  with  a  little  Brown  Roux 
(see  receipt).  Stir,  boil  3  minutes,  strain,  and  serve  in  a 
sauce-boat ;  or,  if  preferred,  the  gravy  may  be  served  without 
being  strained. 

EPIGRAM  OF  LAMB,  SAUCE  TARTARE. 

EPIGRAMME   D'AGNEAU,    SAUCE   TARTARE. 

Prepare  the  lamb  according  to  receipt  for  Breast  of  Mutton 
au  Gratin  up  to  the  point  of  putting  it  away  to  cool  between 
2  dishes.  Place  a  weight  upon  the  top  dish.  Next  day  cut 
into  strips  1^x3  inches  and  f  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  in 
egg  and  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  (see  General 
Directions  for  Frying).  When  golden-brown,  drain  on  a 
paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  for  a  few  moments,  then 
dish  in  a  circle.  Garnish  tastefully,  and  serve  with  Tartare 
Sauce  (see  receipt)  and  green  peas.  The  true  Epigramme 
d'Agneau  is  composed  of  the  above  alternated  with  lamb 
chops  dipped  and  fried  in  the  same  manner.  The  above  will 
be  found  excellent,  however,  without  the  addition  of  the 
chops. 

STEWED  LAMBS'   TONGUES. 

LANGUES   D'AGNEAUX. 

•   6  tongues,  3  tablespoons  of  butter, 

1  large  onion,  cut  fine,  3  "  "  flour, 

2  slices  of  carrot,  cut  fine,  1  bay-leaf, 

3  "      "  turnip,    "     "  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  pint  of  stock  or  water,  Bunch  of  sweet  herbs  and  celery. 

Boil  the  tongues  in  clear  water  for  i|  hours.     Throw  them 

into   cold   water.     Remove  the  skins.     Put   the  vegetables 

into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter.     Add  flour  and  stir  until 

brown,  then"  add  stock  or  water  to  cover,  and  seasonings. 

9 


130  GOOD-LIVING. 

When  the  tongues  are  skinned,  add  them  to  the  rest,  and 
simmer  very  gently  for  2  hours.  .  Have  ready  carrots  and 
turnips  cut  in  neat  shapes,  and  boiled  apart.  Put  the  tongues 
on  a  hot  dish  :  strain  the  gravy  ;  boil  it  down  briskly  for  a 
few  minutes  and  pour  over  the  tongues :  garnish  with  the 
boiled  vegetables  and  serve. 

LAMBS"    TONGUES  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

LANGUES    D'AGNEAUX,    SAUCE   TOMATE. 

Cook  as  above,  omitting  the  boiled  vegetables,  serving 
instead  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

LAMBS'   TONGUES  A  LA    TAR  TARE. 

LANGUES   D'AGNEAUX   A    LA   TARTARE. 

Stew  the  tongues  as  directed,  and  serve  with  Tartare 
Sauce  (see  receipt). 

DEVILLED  LAMB  EN  CAISSES. 

AGNEAU   EN   CAISSES. 
See  receipt  for  Devilled  Chicken  en  Caisses. 

LAMBS'  KIDNEYS  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

ROGNONS   D'AGNEAU. 

Prepare  exactly  as  directed  for  Fourchette,  splitting  the 
kidneys  in  half. 

LAMBS'  KIDNEYS  BROILED. 

ROGNONS   D'AGNEAU    GRILLES. 

Split  the  kidneys ;  remove  the  little  white  centre.  Do  not 
cut  the  two  sides  apart,  but  spread  them  open,  running  a 
skewer  through  to  hold  them  in  place.  Fill  the  skewers 
with  as  many  kidneys  as  they  will  hold.  Have  the  broiler 
or  gridiron  very  hot,  and  lay  the  skewered  kidneys  upon  it, 


LAMBS'    FRIES.  131 

turning  frequently.  Dip  in  melted  butter  and  broil  until 
firm  under  pressure.  If  you  use  plated  or  silver  skewers,  lay 
the  whole  on  a  hot  dish  ;  add  lemon-juice,  chopped  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt  and  melted  butter,  and  serve.  If  common 
skewers  are  used,  the  kidneys  must  be  slipped  off  before 
dressing  as  directed.     N.  B. — Serve  very  hot. 

LAMB  CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES    d'AGNEAU. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  any  of  the  various  receipts  for 
Chicken  Croquettes. 

LAMBS'  FRIES. 

Parboil  these  as  described  for  Calf's  Brains.  Then  prepare 
according  to  any  of  the  various  receipts  for  Calf's  Brains  or 
Sweetbreads :  or  fry  in  butter. 


^Bsp^M 

VEAL. 

GENERAL   REMARKS. 

The  best  veal  is  very  firm  and  pinkish  white  ("  ashes  of 
roses "  describes  the  color  exactly,  if  not  too  poetical  for 
such  a  prosaic  subject).  Never  buy  that  which  has  a  bluish 
tinge.  It  should  not  be  too  young  (less  than  6  weeks)  nor 
too  old  (over  6  months).  The  best  season  is  from  the 
middle  of  April  until  the  first  of  July;  but  it  continues  to 
be  quite  good  until  the  end  of  October.  From  that  to  April 
1st  it  is  not  very  good,  being  particularly  stringy.  Like  all 
young  meats,  it  spoils  very  quickly,  and  in  summer  must 
not  be  kept  any  longer  than  necessity  demands,  and  not 
more  than  2  or  3  days  in  cooler  weather.  In  this  country 
the  utility  of  veal  is  not  sufficiently  recognized ;  as  a  rule  it 
is  shockingly  cooked,  therefore  indigestible  ;  hence  its  bad 
reputation.  Whereas  in  reality  it  is  no  more  indigestible 
than  other  young  meats  and  far  less  so  than  pork,  which, 
though  not  young  meat,  is  also  white.  Young  meats  as  a 
rule  are  not  nutritious,  but,  if  properly  cooked,  need  not  be 
particularly  unwholesome;  lamb  might  be  disapproved  of  on 
the  same  grounds,  and  yet  it  is  very  popular.  If  veal  is 
sufficiently  cooked,  and  cooked  slowly,  it  will  be  found  to  be 
quite  as  safe  for  the  average  person  as  lamb.  A  very  great 
improvement,  and  a  practice  to  be  strongly  recommended, 
is  to  pound  veal,  not  as  you  would  pound  beef,  but  almost 
to  a  pulp  ;  this  makes  it  deliciously  tender  and  quite  digest- 
ible. It  is  indeed  a  most  useful  meat,  furnishing  an  endless 
variety  of  dishes. 

132 


STUFFED   FILLET   OF   VEAL   ROASTED.  1 33 

ROAST  LOIN  OF   VEAL. 

LONGE    DE    VEAU    ROTIE. 

Trim  the  loin  neatly ;  turn  the  flap  under  and  fasten  with 
a  skewer.  Proceed  exactly  as  directed  for  Fillet  of  Veal 
Roasted,  omitting  the  stuffing.  Cover  with  a  second  pan 
and  allow  20  minutes  per  pound  in  a  slow  oven. 

STUFFED  FILLET  OF  VEAL  ROASTED. 

ROUELLE    DE   VEAU    FARCIE. 

Remove  the  bone  from  the  fillet  of  veal.  Fill  the  space 
with  a  Force-Meat  or  Dressing,  (see  receipts).  An  excellent 
dressing  is  made  of  equal  quantities  of  stale  bread-crumbs  and 
chopped  ham,  chopped  parsley,  a  teaspoonful  of  made 
mustard,  and  I  egg.  When  the  dressing  is  ready,  fill  the 
space  left  by  the  bone ;  then  skewer  the  fillet  and  tie  it  with 
tape  or  strips  of  muslin  into  a  neat  round.  Sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Tie  a  buttered  paper  over  the  top.  Put 
it  into  a  baking-pan  with  a  little  sweet  drippings  or  butter 
and  very  little  boiling  water.  Let  the  fire  be  intensely  hot 
at  first ;  then  after  20  to  30  minutes  slack  it  off  to  a  very 
moderate  heat.  Baste  very  often.  Just  before  it  is  done, 
remove  the  paper,  dredge  with  flour ;  dot  with  butter,  and  let 
it  brown.  Allow  about  18  minutes  to  the  pound.  If  covered 
with  thick  paper  or  with  another  pan,  and  the  fire  is  kept 
sufficiently  moderate,  you  may  allow  20  minutes  to  the 
pound,  as  veal  must  be  very  thoroughly  done  through.  Add 
a  little  boiling  water  from  time  to  time  if  necessary,  but  always 
very  little  at  a  time.  When  done,  remove  from  the  pan ; 
set  the  pan  on  top  of  the  range ;  add  lemon-juice,  pepper, 
salt,  and,  if  necessary,  some  boiling  water.  Boil  it  down 
briskly ;  skim  ;  strain  some  over  the  veal,  and  serve  the  rest 
in  a  sauce-boat. 


134  GOOD-LIVING. 

BRAISED  FILLET  OF  VEAL. 

ROUELLE    DE   VEAU    BRAISEE. 

Remove  all  the  fibres  and  skin  from  the  fillet ;  lard  the 
upper  side  with  fine  strips  of  salt  pork  (see  Roasted  Filet 
of  Beef  Larded).  The  space  left  by  removing  the  bone 
should  be  filled  with  force-meat  as  for  Stuffed  Fillet  of 
Veal  Roasted.  Skewer  it  neatly  into  shape  and  tie  it  with 
tape  or  strips  of  muslin.  Melt  a  large  piece  of  butter  in  a 
stew-pan.  Lay  the  veal  in,  turning  it  on  all  sides  to  brown 
evenly.  When  this  is  done,  stand  the  larded  side  uppermost. 
Add  2\  gills  of  good  stock,  2  gills  of  tomato-juice  or  tomato 
sauce,  and  I  gill  of  sherry,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and 
simmer  gently,  allowing  about  20  minutes  to  the  pound. 
When  done,  uncover  and  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  about 
30  minutes  to  brown  the  meat,  basting  often  to  give  a  good 
color.  Allow  plenty  of  time  ;  cook  gently,  and  the  veal 
will  be  tender  and  perfectly  digestible.  Rapid  and  insuffi- 
cient cooking  spoil  veal  and  render  it  unwholesome.  When 
cooked,  dish.  Strain  and  skim  the  gravy  and  serve  in  a 
boat. 

BRAISED    FILLET  OF    VEAL    WITH  SOUBISE 
SA  UCE. 

ROUELLE    DE   VEAU   BRAISEE,    SAUCE   SOUBISE. 

Having  braised  the  fillet  as  directed,  serve  it  with  Soubise 
Sauce  (see  receipt),  adding  to  the  sauce  the  pan  gravy. 
Good. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL. 

FRICANDEAU    DE   VEAU. 

The  cut  for  this  dish  is  taken  from  the  thick  side  of  the 
fillet,  cut  up  and  down,  not  across,  including  the  round  eye 
which  forms  the  tenderest  as  well  as  the  thickest  part  of  the 
leg.      This   is  the  true   fricandeau.      Remove  all  skin   and 


FRICANDEAU  A    LA    SOUBISE.  1 35 

fibre,  then  with  the  rolling-pin  pound  the  meat  until  almost 
as  tender  as  pulp.  Having  done  this  well,  form  the  meat 
into  a  neat  round,  loaf-like  shape.  Lard  the  side  that  is  to 
stand  uppermost  (see  Roasted  Filet  of  Beef  Larded).  It 
will  be  found  to  be  much  more  convenient  to  place  the  frican- 
deau  on  a  perforated  pie-dish  which  will  fit  into  the  braising- 
pot,  as  handling  will  deface  it  after  its  thorough  pounding. 
When  larded  and  ready,  place  the  meat  and  pie-plate  in  the 
pot.  Fry  i  onion  and  I  carrot  in  butter ;  add  these  to  the 
pot  with  i  bay-leaf,  sprig  of  thyme,  I  clove,  and  a  roux  made 
of  I  tablespoonful  of  flour,  stirred  over  the  fire  with  i  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  until  of  a  rich  chestnut-brown.  Blend 
this  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  make  it  smooth.  Now 
add  3  gills  of  strong  stock  and  I  gill  of  sherry.  Cover  very 
closely  and  set  over  a  sharp  fire  until  it  boils  ;  then  draw  aside 
where  it  will  simmer  gently  without  intermission.  Allow 
about  20  minutes  to  the  pound,  if  cooked  slowly  enough. 
The  pot  must  be  air-tight.  About  30  minutes  before  it  is  to 
be  served,  uncover  the  pot,  set  it  in  the  oven,  and  baste 
frequently  until  there  forms  a  rich  glaze  over  the  top.  This 
also  improves  the  appearance  of  the  larding.  When  ready, 
remove  to  a  hot  dish.  Add  a  little  broth  to  the  pot ;  stir 
and  boil  down  rapidly  for  a  few  minutes.  Strain  and  skim 
the  gravy  and  serve  it  in  a  sauce-boat.     Delicious. 

FRICANDEAU  OF  VEAL   WITH  SORREL. 

FRICANDEAU   DE   VEAU  ,A   L'OSEILLE. 

Having  prepared  the  fricandeau,  serve  it  on  a  Pur£e  of 
Sorrel  (see  receipt).  This  is  the  conventional  accompani- 
ment. 

FRICANDEAU  A  LA  SOUBISE. 

Having  prepared  the  fricandeau  as  directed,  serve  it  with 
a  rich  Soubise  Sauce  (see  receipt),  adding  to  the  latter  the 
juices  of  the  meat. 


I36  GOOD-LIVING. 

BROWNED  KNUCKLE  OF  VEAL. 

JARRET   DE   VEAU    PANE. 

Remove  the  lower  bone  from  a  boiled  knuckle  of  veal; 
lap  the  meat  over  neatly  and  skewer  it.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
two  raw  eggs  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
pepper  ;  cover  the  meat  with  this  ;  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs 
and  brown  it  in  the  oven. 

SAUQE: 

1  oz.  of  butter,  Rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  juice  of  same, 

I  oz.  of  flour,  }£  teaspoon  of  ground  allspice, 

1  pint  of  broth,  Salt  and  cayenne. 

Brown  the  butter  and  flour  together  to  a  good  color ;  do 
not  burn.  Pour  in  the  boiling  broth  by  degrees,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Add  seasonings  and  boil  5  minutes  or  more,  if  not 
thick  enough.  Strain  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat  with  the  veal. 
This  is  an  economical  dish,  and  very  nice-looking  as  well  as 
palatable.  The  veal  must  have  boiled  very  slowly  until  very 
tender.  The  broth  in  which  it  was  boiled  will  make  a  good 
soup.     See  receipts  for  White  Soup,  etc.,  etc. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  FRLED. 

NOIX    DE   VEAU    PANEES. 

Veal  cutlet,  Bread-crumbs, 

Salt  and  pepper,  Grated  nutmeg, 

Lemon-juice,  Egg  and  lard. 

With  a  knife  remove  the  outer  skin,  all  the  sinews  and 
fibres  which  you  can  manage  to  draw  out  of  the  cutlet.  Cut 
it  into  pieces  3X3  inches.  Beat  the  pieces  to  a  pulp,  lit- 
erally. Squeeze  lemon-juice  over  them.  Season  the  bread- 
crumbs with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Dip  the  cutlets  into 
the  egg,  then  shape  them  nicely  into  neat,  even  pieces,  and 
dip  them  into  the  bread-crumbs,  being  careful  that  every  part 
is  covered.  Set  away  on  a  dish  for  an  hour  or  more  if  you 
have  the  time.  Have  ready  boiling  lard  2  inches  deep. 
When  ready,  put  the  cutlets  in  a  frying-basket ;  plunge  them 
into  the    lard   and  fry  golden  brown.     (See  General  Direc- 


VEAL   CUTLETS  BRAISED.  1 37 

tions  for  Frying.)  They  will  require  about  12  to  15  minutes, 
and  must  cook  a  little  more  slowly  after  the  first  minute  or 
two,  drawing  the  frying-pan  on  one  side.  When  gold  color, 
remove  them  from  the  lard  ;  drain  them  on  paper  in  the 
open  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  free  from  grease,  dish 
neatly  on  a  very  hot  dish  and  serve  with  Tomato  Sauce, 
Brown  Sauce,  or  Sauce  Piquante,  (see  receipts).  Done  in 
this  way,  veal  cutlets  are  almost  as  good  as  croquettes  and 
quite  as  digestible. 

FRIED   VEAL  A  LA  MARYLAND. 

NOIX   DE   VEAU    SAUTEES   A    LA    MARYLAND. 

1^  lbs.  sliced  veal  cutlet,  pounded,  2  gills  of  cream, 

1  even  tablespoon  of  flour,  Salt, 

3  oz.  of  salt  pork,  sliced,  Pepper. 

Fry  the  sliced  pork  until  the  fat  is  melted  out  sufficiently  ; 
sprinkle  the  veal,  cut  in  pieces  3X3  inches,  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  lay  it  in  the  hot  pan,  turn  quickly  and  sear  both 
sides ;  then  draw  it  to  the  side  of  the  range  and  let  it  cook 
slowly.  It  is  done  when  it  feels  firm  under  the  fork.  It 
must  be  turned  very  often  while  cooking,  that  it  may  not 
harden  on  any  one  side.  When  done,  lay  the  slices  of  veal 
in  a  circle  on  a  hot  dish  alternately  with  the  slices  of  pork. 
Pour  nearly  all  the  fat  from  the  pan  ;  add  to  the  pan  the 
cream,  in  a  little  of  which  the  flour  has  been  mixed  smooth. 
Simmer  3  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil.  Pour  it  over  the 
veal  and  serve. 

VEAL    CUTLETS  BRAISED. 

NOIX   DE   VEAU    BRAISEES    A    LA   JARDINIERE. 

Veal  cutlet,  Pork  for  larding, 

I  carrot,  cut  fine,  Stock, 

1  turnip     "       "  1  teaspoon  of  butter, 

1  onion      "       "  I'.i   <•"<>  ' !  •'<■"  flour, 

I  stick  of  celery,  cut' fine,  1  gill  of  sherry, 

Butter,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Cut  slices  of  the  fillet  into  pieces  about  3  inches  square. 
Pound  with  a  rolling-pin  almost  to  a  pulp  and  press  back  into 


138  GOOD-LIVING. 

shape.  Lard  the  cutlets  (this  is  not  obligatory).  Having 
cut  up  the  vegetables,  fry  them  in  butter  until  slightly  brown. 
Lay  them  in  a  saucepan  ;  on  this  bed  lay  the  cutlets.  Cover 
with  good,  strong  stock.  Add  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  the 
saucepan  air-tight  and  stew  very  gently  for  about  \\  hours. 
When  thoroughly  cooked,  remove  the  meat.  Thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  roux  made  of  flour  and  butter  browned 
together  over  the  fire,  blending  the  boiling  sauce  into  it 
until  smooth.  Boil  this  5  minutes;  add  wine  to  taste. 
Strain.  Dish  the  cutlets  in  a  circle  with  the  mixed  vegeta- 
bles in  the  centre  ;  or  substitute  a  puree  of  some  sort,  peas, 
spinach,  endives,  sorrel,  etc.,  etc.  Serve  the  gravy  on  the 
dish. 

VEAL  CUTLETS  SAUTE. 

NOIX   DE   VEAU    SAUTEES. 

Use  for  this  the  eyes  of  the  rib-chops  cut  away  from  the 
bones,  or  slices  from  the  fillet,  cut  in  pieces  about  3x3 
inches.  Pound  these  with  a  rolling-pin  until  almost  a  pulp. 
Press  them  back  into  shape.  Have  the  frying-pan  heating 
on  the  fire.  Lay  in  some  slices  of  ham  cut  the  same  size  as 
the  veal.  Let  them  fry  a  few  minutes.  Take  them  out  and 
place  on  a  warm  dish.  If  there  is  not  enough  fat  in  the  pan 
from  the  ham,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  when  bubbling,  lay 
in  the  veal.  Turn  the  pieces  constantly  and  faithfully. 
When  firm  under  the  fork,  they  are  done.  Dish  them  in  a 
circle  alternately  with  the  pieces  of  ham.  Add  to  the  pan  a 
little  lemon-juice,  a  pinch  of  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a 
little  boiling  water.  Stir  and  boil.  Add  chopped  parsley, 
pour  over  the  cutlets,  and  serve. 

The  same  may  be  served  with  Mushroom  Sauce,  Tomato 
Sauce,  Soubise  Sauce,  Sauce  Piquante,  or  Cream  Sauce  (see 
receipts) ;  or  with  a  puree  of  peas,  spinach,  sorrel,  etc.,  etc 

VEAL  POT-PL E. 

See  receipt  for  Beefsteak  Pudding  or  Pot-Pie,  using  3 
parts  veal  to  1  part  ham. 


VEAL    CHOPS  A    LA    MLLANALSE.  1 39 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES  DE  VEAU. 

Prepare  according  to  any  of  the  various  receipts  for 
Chicken  Croquettes. 

VEAL  AND  HAM  CROQUETTES. 

Prepare  according  to  any  of  the  various  receipts  for 
Chicken  Croquettes,  using  3  parts  veal  to  I  part  ham. 

VEAL  CHOPS  SA  UTE. 

COTELETTES  DE  VEAU  SAUTEES. 

Chops,  Parsley, 

Lemon-juice,  Flour, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Butter. 

Pound  and  trim  the  chops  neatly ;  scrape  the  handles. 
Heat  a  large  lump  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan.  Lay  in  the 
chops  side  by  side,  so  that  each  touches  the  bottom  of  the 
pan.  As  soon  as  all  are  in,  begin  to  turn,  and  keep  on  turn- 
ing until  done,  which  can  be  proved  by  their  being  firm 
under  pressure  of  a  fork.  Do  not  pierce  them.  Remove 
them  to  a  hot  dish  ;  dredge  a  little  flour  into  the  butter 
which  remains  in  the  pan  ;  stir ;  add  lemon-juice,  chopped 
parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  fresh  butter.  Pour 
over  the  chops,  and  serve.  The  above  can  be  served  with 
Tomato  Sauce,  Soubise  Sauce,  Mushroom  Sauce,  etc.  (see 
various  receipts),  or  with  a  pur6e  of  peas,  potatoes,  sorrel, 
spinach,  endives,  etc.,  etc. 

VEAL  CHOPS  A  LA  MILANALSE. 

COTELETTES   DE  VEAU   A   LA   MILANAISE. 

Having  dressed  the  chops  as  above,  and  browned  them  in 
butter  as  directed,  add  a  little  broth,  and  stew  gently  for  15 
minutes.  Dish  in  a  circle.  Fill  the  centre  space  with  boiled 
macaroni,  and  pour  the  gravy  over  all.     The  addition  to  the 


140  GOOD-LIVING. 

gravy  of  2  gills  of  rich  Tomato  Sauce  and  I  gill  of  sherry 
will  be  found  a  great  improvement ;  it  may  be  slightly 
thickened  with  corn-starch,  blended  with  a  little  cold  water, 
and  boiled  3  minutes. 

STUFFED  FLANK  OF  VEAL  (COLD). 

GALANTINE   DE   VEAU. 

Flank  of  veal,  Sausage-meat, 

Bread-crumbs,  Egg, 

Dice  of  tongue,  Garlic, 

Bay-leaf,  Thyme,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Spread  out  the  flank,  which  you  have  had  prepared  and 
boned  by  the  butcher.  To  be  large  enough,  part  of  the 
breast  has  also  to  be  included  in  cutting  the  flank,  therefore 
the  little  flat  bones  and  gristle  must  all  be  removed,  as  also 
all  the  sinews  and  fibres  of  the  meat.  Trim  it  evenly. 
Make  a  thick  force-meat  of  sausage,  half  the  bulk  of  same  in 
bread-crumbs;  season  to  taste  with  pounded  garlic  (1  clove 
of  garlic  or  half  teaspoonful  of  grated  onion)  ;  salt  and  pep- 
per. A  gill  of  wine  or  brandy  will  be  found  a  great  improve- 
ment. Add  1  or  2  eggs,  according  to  the  amount  of 
force-meat  required ;  add  dice  of  boiled  tongue.  Have 
ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  with  1  bay-leaf,  sprig  of  thyme, 
and  salt.  When  you  have  put  the  force-meat  in  the  centre 
of  the  flank,  roll  it  up  very  carefully,  not  to  let  the  dressing 
escape  at  the  ends.  Tie  it  securely  with  strips  of  muslin  or 
tape.  Drop  into  the  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  hard  for  15 
minutes,  covered  ;  then  set  to  one  side,  and  boil  more  gently 
for  45  minutes,  or  longer  if  the  meat  is  thick.  When  done, 
set  the  pot  aside  until  all  is  cold  before  removing  the  roll. 
This  is  excellent  sliced  thin  for  luncheon,  and  keeps  several 
days. 

BLANQUETTE  OF  VEAL. 

BLANQUETTE   DE   VEAU. 

There  are  two  ways  of  preparing  this  dish,  one  simple,  the 
other  more  complex :  both  are  given.     It  is  unnecessary  to 


CREAM  OF  VEAL.  I4I 

say  that  the  more  elaborate  is  the  better  of  the  two  ;  but  the 
simple  one  is  excellent. 

Cut  a  breast  of  veal  (the  thin,  gristly  part  also)  into  pieces 
2x3  inches.  Lay  them  in  a  bowl  of  vinegar  and  water  for 
about  1  hour.  This  will  draw  out  the  blood.  Then  proceed 
exactly  as  for  Fricasseed  Chicken  (see  receipt).  When 
cooked  very  tender  (it  must  only  simmer),  about  1  hour  and 
30  minutes,  more  or  less,  remove  the  veal.  Strain  the  gravy ; 
make  a  White  Roux  as  directed  (see  receipt)  ;  stir  in  the  boil- 
ing broth ;  when  thickened  to  the  proper  consistency,  add 
lemon-juice,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Put  the 
veal  into  the  sauce  ;  set  it  over  boiling  water,  and  let  it  stew 
very  gently  for  about  30  minutes  at  the  back  of  the  range. 
Dish  the  meat  neatly.  Bring  the  sauce  to  a  boil.  Have 
ready  in  a  bowl  2  yolks  of  eggs  (to  a  pint  of  sauce),  beaten 
with  a  gill  of  cream.  Pour  some  of  the  sauce  very  gently 
upon  them.  Remove  the  sauce  from  the  fire  ;  stir  the  eggs 
thus  prepared  into  the  boiling  sauce ;  pour  the  whole  over 
the  blanquette ;  garnish  with  large  croutons,  sliced  lemon, 
and  parsley.     Serve.     Excellent. 

Or,  slice  some  cold  roast  fillet  of  veal,  about  a  third  of  an 
inch  thick,  in  even  neat  pieces,  cutting  off  all  the  outer 
brown  skin.  Prepare  a  Sauce  Blonde  or  Veloute.  When  it 
is  hot,  lay  in  the  veal ;  set  over  boiling  water  for  30  minutes, 
where  it  will  barely  simmer.  Season  with  lemon-juice,  nut- 
meg, and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Garnish  as  above,  and  serve. 
Very  good,  and  much  less  trouble  than  the  first  receipt. 


CREAM  OF  VEAL. 

CREME   DE   VEAU. 

Make  2  gills  of  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Chop  3  parts 
veal  and  1  part  ham,  very  fine  ;  stir  in  enough  to  thicken  the 
sauce,  so  that  it  will  no  longer  pour.  Season  the  veal  with 
a  dash  of  nutmeg  and  cayenne.  Serve  on  toast.  Chicken 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way ;  also  mutton,  to  which 
should  be  added  a  pinch  of  curry-powder. 


142  GOOD-LIVING. 

CREOLE  RA  TA  TOUILLE. 

RATATOUILLE    A    LA    CREOLE. 

3  pounds  of  lean  veal,  2  cloves  of  garlic, 

\  pound  ham,  cut  in  i-in.  dice,  2  onions,  sliced, 

Sprig  of  thyme,  Veal  bones  for  gravy, 

i  can  of  tomatoes,  or  6  or  8  fresh,  4  or  6  sweet  potatoes, 

1  can  of  okra,  or  50  fresh,  Salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 

First  of  all  make  your  gravy  as  follows :  Brown  the  bones 
and  trimmings  of  the  veal,  and  any  chicken  bones  which  you 
may  have,  in  butter  in  a  frying-pan  ;  or  you  may  roast  them 
till  brown  in  the  oven.  When  well  browned,  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  on  the  fire  with  the  garlic,  thyme,  tomatoes,  and  a 
little  dash  of  boiling  water  (according  to  the  amount  of 
liquor  there  is  on  the  tomatoes).  As  you  will  require  about 
1  quart  of  gravy,  it  is  best  to  begin  with  3  pints  of  liquid. 
Fry  the  onions  brown  in  butter,  and  add  them  to  the  sauce- 
pan. Cover.  Let  the  whole  stew  very  gently  on  the  side 
of  the  range  for  2  hours,  or  longer,  until  the  gravy  is  tasty 
and  strong.  Then  strain  it  and  return  it  to  the  saucepan. 
Have  your  veal  cut  in  pieces  about  the  length  of  I  finger  and 
breadth  of  2.  Fry  the  pieces  in  butter  until  nicely  browned, 
turning  often  to  avoid  toughening ;  put  these  in  the  sauce- 
pan ;  add  the  dice  of  ham,  the  sweet  potatoes  cut  in  cubes 
of  about  i£  inches,  salt,  and  pepper.  Add  also,  if  avail- 
able, half  a  sweet-pepper  without  seeds.  Stew  all  together 
gently  until  the  veal  is  thoroughly  tender  and  the  sweet 
potatoes  are  on  the  point  of  melting  away,  which  will  be 
from  \\  to  2  hours.  Ten  minutes  before  this  point  is  reached, 
add  the  can  of  okra.  If  you  use  fresh  okras,  select  small 
ones,  tip  and  tail  them,  and  add  to  the  stew  30  minutes  be- 
fore removing  from  the  fire.  When  it  is  all  done,  dish  the 
meat  in  the  centre  of  a  platter,  the  sweet  potatoes  around 
the  edge,  the  okra  over  the  meat.  Let  the  gravy  boil  down 
rapidly  for  a  few  minutes  ;  add  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste ;  if 
not  thick  enough,  stir  in  1  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  water.  Boil  3  minutes  and  pour  over  the 
stew.  This  is  a  delicious  dish,  and  perfectly  easy  to  make, 
although  it  may  appear  complicated. 


VEAL   LOAF.  143 

VEAL  OLIVES. 

VEAU   AUX   OLIVES. 

Strips  of  veal  from  the  flank,  Small  piece  of  cold  veal,  chopped, 

Cold  ham,  chopped,  Bread-crumbs, 

Parsley,  chopped,  Grated  onion, 

1  egg,  Pepper  and  salt, 

Lemon-juice,  Nutmeg, 

Butter,  Spanish  olives,  stoned. 

Having  removed  the  skin  and  fibres  from  the  flank  of  veal 
and  wiped  it  clean,  cut  it  in  neat  strips  about  2  inches  wide 
by  4  inches  long.  Pound  carefully  with  a  few  strokes.  Mix 
together  all  the  other  ingredients,  except  the  olives  and 
butter,  using  cold  ham  and  cold  veal  in  equal  proportions 
and  bread-crumbs  equal  to  the  bulk  of  these  two.  Put  a 
layer  of  dressing  in  the  centre  of  each  strip  of  vealr  roll 
neatly,  and  tie  so  that  the  mince  will  not  run  out.  The  ends 
can  be  pinned  over  with  small  wooden  skewers,  in  which 
case  be  very  careful  to  remove  them  before  serving.  Melt  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan.  When  it  bubbles, 
lay  in  the  rolls  and  turn  them  until  evenly  browned  all  over. 
Add  enough  stock  to  half-cover  them  ;  close  tightly,  and  set 
tm  a  corner  of  the  range  to  simmer  gently  for  30  to  40 
minutes.  Then  remove  them  to  a  hot  dish  ;  bring  the  gravy, 
strained,  to  a  boil ;  thicken  it  with  corn-starch  blended  with 
cold  water.  Stir  and  boil  3  minutes.  Add  a  few  stoned 
olives,  pepper,  and  salt.  Pour  over  the  rolls  and  serve. 
This  is  a  very  old-fashioned  dish. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

PAIN   DE   VEAU. 

2  pounds  of  cold  veal,  chopped  fine,  I  cup  of  brown  gravy, 

1  pound  of  cold  ham,         "  "  Cayenne, 

1  small  teaspoon  of  grated  lemon-peel,  Lemon-juice, 

1  teaspoon  of  powdered  mace,  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten  light, 

1  cup  grated  bread-crumbs,  dry  and  fine,  1  egg  for  glazing. 

Mix  half  of  the  gravy  and  all  the  other  ingredients,  except 
the  egg  for  glazing.     Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  last.     The 


144  GOOD-LIVING. 

mixture  should  be  just  firm  enough  to  hold  in  shape  when 
moulded  into  a  loaf.  If  it  is  too  soft,  add  bread-crumbs. 
Flour  your  hands  and  mould  it  into  a  loaf  rather  more  than 
twice  its  breadth  in  length.  If  longer,  it  will  crack  in  dishing. 
Flour  the  outside  well,  and  place  it  in  a  greased  pan  large 
enough  to  permit  of  your  handling  the  loaf  without  danger 
of  disfiguring  it.  Cover  over  and  set  in  the  oven  until 
smoking  hot.  Remove  the  cover  and  allow  it  to  brown 
quickly.  Draw  it  to  the  oven-door  and  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg.  Shut  the  door  and  leave  for  3  minutes,  or  until 
nicely  brown.  It  will  require  in  all  about  1  hour  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  If  cooked  in  too  hot  an  oven,  the  loaf  will 
crack.  When  done,  transfer  it  by  means  of  a  cake-turner  to 
a  hot  dish.  Handle  it  very  carefully.  Serve  it  with  the 
remaining  half-cup  of  brown  gravy,  or  with  Tomato  Sauce, 
or  Mushroom  Sauce  (see  receipts).  It  is  delicious  served 
cold  with  salad.' 


DEVILLED  VEAL  EN  CAISSES. 

VEAU    EN    CAISSES. 
See  receipt  for  Devilled  Chicken  en  Caisses. 

ME  A  T  LOAF. 

PAIN   DE   VIANDE. 

3  pounds  of  minced  veal,  8  eggs, 

3        "  "        beef,  Pepper  and  salt, 

3  stale  rolls,  grated,  2  grated  nutmegs, 

I  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon. 

Mix  all  together  with  the  raw  meat  minced.  If  you  have 
no  rolls,  use  the  same  bulk  of  stale  bread.  When  well 
mixed,  form  into  a  loaf,  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs,  put  in  a 
roasting-pan  or  on  a  sheet  of  tin.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  very 
moderate  oven  for  about  2  hours,  or  a  little  longer.  Serve 
cold.     (Or,  bake  the  same  in  a  well-greased  bread-pan.) 


JELLIED    VEAL.  145 

BEWITCHED  VEAL. 

3  lbs.  of  lean  veal,  %  pound  fat  salt  pork, 

1  grated  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

I  small  onion,  grated,  Salt  and  cayenne, 

3  eggs>  x  CUP  °f  milk. 

Chop  all  very  fine ;  mix  the  raw  meat  with  the  eggs  and 
milk  ;  add  the  other  ingredients  ;  form  into  a  compact  loaf. 
Sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs.  Bake  from  \\  to  2  hours  in  a 
moderate  oven  ;  if  too  quick,  the  loaf  will  crack.  Cover 
while  baking.  This  is  best  served  cold  with  salad.  (Or, 
bake  the  same  in  a  well-greased  bread-pan.) 

JELLIED  VEAL. 

VEAU   EN   GELEE. 

1  knuckle  of  veal,  2  onions, 

I  blade  of  mace,  1  bay-leaf, 

1  gill  of  good  vinegar,  6  peppercorns, 

2  qJ^irts  of  cold  water,  12  whole  cloves, 

Salt  and  pepper,  ^  teaspoon  of  ground  allspice. 

Wipe  the  veal ;  cut  it  into  pieces  ;  put  it  into  a  kettle  with 
the  cold  water ;  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil ;  skim  and  simmer 
gently  for  2  hours.  Add  onions,  bay-leaf,  cloves,  pepper- 
corns, and  allspice.  Simmer  1  hour  longer.  Remove  tfhe 
meat  from  the  bones  and  put  the  former  into  a  plain  mould. 
Boil  the  liquor  down  to  1  quart ;  strain  ;  add  vinegar,  pepper 
and  salt.  Pour  it  over  the  meat,  and  set  away  overnight. 
When  firm,  turn  it  out  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon. 


I46  GOOD-LIVING. 

SWEETBREADS. 

TO    PREPARE    SWEETBREADS. 

First  soak  in  clear,  cold  water  and  vinegar  for  an  hour  to 
draw  out  the  blood.  Then  put  into  fresh  cold  water ;  add 
salt ;  heat  very  gradually  and  boil  for  20  minutes.  Drain 
and  throw  again  into  cold  water.  When  thoroughly  cold, 
remove  all  the  veins,  strings,  and  fibres  that  you  can  de- 
tach without  breaking  the  sweetbreads  into  pieces.  They 
are  now  ready  to  be  dressed  according  to  any  of  the  follow- 
ing receipts. 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    PANES. 

Having  prepared  the  sweetbreads  as  directed,  cu^them  in 
even-sized  cubes  or  slices  no  less  than  1  inch  thick;  or  they 
may  be  left  whole ;  dip  first  in  fine  sifted  bread-  or  cracker- 
crumbs,  then  in  white  of  egg,  then  again  in  the  crumbs.  Do 
this  at  least  an  hour  before  dinner,  and  set  in  the  ice-box. 
When  required,  have  lard  at  least  i£  inches  deep  boiling  on 
the  fire.  Use  a  frying-basket  if  possible.  Lay  in  the  pieces 
of  sweetbread.  The  lard  should  cover  them.  In  about  4 
minutes,  if  golden  brown,  drain  them  out  and  lay  on  brown 
paper  in  the  open  oven  door  until  dry  (see  General  Di- 
rections for  Frying).  Dish  in  a  circle  on  cut  paper  or  a 
folded  napkin,  garnished  around  with  cut  lemon  ;  put  in  the 
centre  a  large  bunch  of  Fried  Parsley  (see  receipt).  Serve  in 
a  sauce-boat  at  the  same  time,  Tomato  Sauce,  Tartare, 
Poivrade,  etc.  (see  receipts). 

N.  B. — Never  serve  the  sauce  on  the  same  dish  with  fried 
sweetbreads,  or  indeed  with  any  thing  fried,  as  the  moisture 
of  the  sauce  will  mar  the  perfection  of  the  frying  by  making 
the  article  so  cooked  soggy,  limp,  and  tough.  Sauted  sweet- 
breads, etc.,  should,  on  the  contrary,  be  invariably  served  with 
a  sauce  or  puree  of  some  sort  on  the  dish. 


SWEETBREADS  BRAISED  AND  LARDED.  1 47 

SWEETBREAD  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS   DE   RIS   DE   VEAU. 

Having  prepared  the  sweetbreads  as  first  directed,  cut  them 
in  slices  |-  an  inch  thick  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg,  some  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  lemon- 
juice  ;  dip  into  Fritter  Batter  (see  receipt).  Have  the  lard 
at  least  i£  inches  deep,  boiling  in  a  kettle  on  the  fire.  Drop 
in  the  slices  of  sweetbread  and  fry  2  or  3  minutes,  until  light 
golden  brown  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  When 
the  fritters  are  sufficiently  cooked,  skim  them  out,  and 
drain  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  Place  upon 
the  dish  in  a  circle  on  cut  paper  or  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve 
with  Tartare  or  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipts)  in  a  boat. 

SWEETBREADS  BRAISED  AND  LARDED. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    PIQUES   ET   BRAISES. 

6  sweetbreads,  Salt  pork  for  larding, 

6  slices  of  bacon,  1  -chopped  onion, 

1  bay-leaf,  3  cloves, 

6  allspice,  1  clove  of  garlic, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Strips  of  ham, 

I  gill  of  sherry,  I  teaspoon  of  butter, 

Consomme',  1  teaspoon  of  flour. 

Do  not  parboil  the  sweetbreads  for  this  mode  of  cooking. 
Soak  them  for  1  hour  in  cold  water  and  vinegar.  Remove 
the  veins  and  cords,  but  keep  the  sweetbreads  whole.  Lard 
the  side  which  is  to  stand  uppermost.  Lay  the  thin  slices  of 
bacon  in  the  bottom  of  a  hot  stewpan  which  will  fit  in  the 
oven.  On  these  lay  the  sweetbreads,  larding  uppermost; 
add  onion,  bay-leaf,  spices,  garlic,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  few 
strips  of  ham  ;  add  I  gill  of  sherry  or  madeira,  and  only  just 
enough  strong  consomme  to  cover  the  sweetbreads  f  or  even 
less.  Cover  air-tight  to  keep  in  all  the  steam,  and  stew  very 
gently  from  30  to  45  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
sweetbreads.     Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  stir  the 


I48  GOOD-LIVING. 

flour  with  it  until  well  browned  but  not  burnt.  Stir  into  it  a 
little  of  the  sauce.  Add  it  to  the  saucepan  and  boil  for  a 
few  minutes  to  thicken.  Fifteen  minutes  before  serving,  un- 
cover; set  the  pan  in  the  oven  and  baste  frequently.  This 
will  glaze  the  surface  and  improve  the  appearance  of  the 
larding.  Now  take  out  the  sweetbreads  and  pieces  of  ham 
and  place  them  neatly  on  a  hot  dish.  If  the  gravy  is  not 
rich  enough,  boil  it  rapidly  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  season- 
ing if  required,  and  a  little  more  wine.  If  not  thick  enough, 
a  little  corn-starch  blended  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water, 
may  be  added  and  boiled  3  minutes.  Mushrooms  should  be 
added  to  the  sauce  after  straining  it  (although  not  obliga- 
tory). Pour  some  over  the  sweetbreads  and  serve  the  rest 
in  a  boat.  This  is  beyond  question  the  best  of  the  many 
ways  of  cooking  sweetbreads.  Green  peas  should  be  served 
at  the  same  time. 

5  WEE  TBREA  DS  SA  UTE. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    SAUTES. 

Having  prepared  the  sweetbreads  as  first  directed,  cut 
them  in  even  slices  about  1  inch  thick ;  have  some  butter 
melted  in  a  frying-pan  and  lay  in  the  slices  of  sweetbread, 
turning  until  browned  very  slightly  on  both  sides.  Do  not 
let  the  butter  burn.  Leave  them  in  the  pan  only  just  long 
enough  to  heat  through  thoroughly  and  brown  slightly  ;  then 
dish  in  a  circle  on  a  bed  of  vegetable  puree  of  some  sort, 
and  always  with  a  sauce.  Sweetbreads  saut£  may  be  served 
with : 

Puree  of  Jerusalem  artichokes,  Puree  of  peas, 

Puree  of  spinach,  Puree  of  sorrel, 

Puree  of  endives,  Puree  of  sweet  potatoes, 

or  with  small  green  peas,  asparagus  tips,  mushrooms, 
cauliflower  cut  in  pieces,  etc.,  etc.  In  all  the  above  cases  a 
sauce  should  be  served  on  the  dish.  See  receipts  for  Brown 
Sauce  and  Brown  Gravy. 


SWEETBREADS    WITH  MUSHROOMS.  I49 

SWEETBREADS  A   LA  POULETTE. 

RIS   DE   VEAU   A    LA   POULETTE. 

6  sweetbreads,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

I  gill  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

4  eggs>  yolks  only,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Lemon-juice,  Parsley. 

Having  prepared  the  sweetbreads  as  directed  in  the  first 
receipt,  cut  them  in  pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut.  To  make 
the  sauce,  stir  the  flour  and  butter  together  over  the  fire,  but 
do  not  brown ;  when  blended,  pour  in  by  degrees,  stirring 
unremittingly,  enough  boiling  water  to  thin  the  sauce  to  the 
consistency  of  very  thick  cream,  almost  as  thick  as  batter; 
add  seasonings  and  lemon-juice.  Noav  put  in  the  sweet- 
breads, and  when  heated  through  (they  will  not  require  boil- 
ing) add  in  the  cream  which  you  have  brought  to  boiling 
point  in  another  saucepan.  Then  remove  from  the  fire ;  stir 
in  a  small  lump  of  fresh  butter  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs. 
Stir  briskly  not  to  curdle.  Sprinkle  finely-chopped  parsley 
over  and  serve. 

N.  B. — To  prevent  the  yolks  from  curdling,  they  should  be 
broken  into  a  bowl  and  beaten  until  smooth  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  the  cold  cream  ;  then  take  a  little  of  the  hot 
gravy,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  and  mix  it  in  the  bowl  with  the 
eggs ;  when  smooth  turn  the  eggs  into  the  hot  sauce,  and  stir 
quickly.  Do  not  boil  again  after  the  eggs  are  in,  but  set 
over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  {bain-marie)  to  keep  hot  if  it  has 
to  stand  at  all.  A  great  improvement  upon  the  above  con- 
ventional dish  is 

SWEETBREADS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

RIS   DE  VEAU   AUX   CHAMPIGNONS. 

To  the  above,  add  fresh  or  canned  mushrooms  and  I  gill  of 
sherry,  before  the  eggs  are  added.  Stew  5  minutes,  then  finish 
as  above. 


150  GOOD-LIVING. 

CURRIED  SWEETBREADS. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    AU    KARL 

Prepare  as  directed  A  la  Poulette,  adding  powdered  curry 
to  taste,  carefully  blended  and  mixed  with  the  sauce  before 
the  eggs  are  added ;  or  the  eggs  may  be  omitted  entirely. 
Curried  sweetbreads  should  be  served  with  a  Rice  Border 
(see  receipt). 

BROILED  SWEETBREADS. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    GRILLES. 

Having  prepared  the  sweetbreads  as  described  in  first 
receipt,  heat  the  gridiron  very  hot  over  or  under  a  clear  fire. 
Roll  the  sweetbreads  in  melted  butter  and  place  on  the  grid- 
iron. Turn  often,  taking  them  off  once  or  twice  to  dip  again 
in  melted  butter  and  return  to  the  gridiron.  When  well  col- 
ored, season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon- 
juice.  They  should  be  eaten  very  hot.  Serve  with  or  with- 
out other  sauce  than  the  melted  butter.     Excellent. 

ROASTED  SWEETBREADS. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    ROTIS. 

Having  prepared  as  directed  in  first  receipt,  dip  whole  as 
for  frying.  When  dipped,  lay  them  in  a  roasting-pan  with  a 
few  spoonfuls  of  strong  consomme.  Baste  frequently,  and 
when  nicely  browned,  serve.  They  will  not  require  more  than 
about  20  minutes.  You  may  lay  slices  of  bacon  in  the  pan 
under  each  sweetbread. 

Or,  prepare  as  for  Braised  Sweetbreads,  larding  or  not  as 
you  prefer.  Then  put  them  in  the  pan  with  the  seasonings. 
Cover  the  first  pan  with  another.  Bake  until  about  half 
cooked  (20  to  25  minutes),  then  remote  the  top  pan,  baste 
very  frequently  with  wine  and  consomme^  using  less  con- 
somme^ than  directed  for  braising.  When  brown  and  firm, 
dish.  They  will  require  in  all  from  45  minutes  to  I  hour,  in 
a  moderate  oven.    Boil  the  gravy  rapidly  a  few  minutes,  after 


SWEETBREAD    CROQUETTES.  1 5 1 

removing  the  sweetbreads  ;  thicken  slightly  with  a  little  corn- 
starch blended  in  cold  water.  Boil  3  minutes.  Strain  and 
pour  over  the  sweetbreads.     Serve. 

SWEETBREADS  EN  CASSEROLES. 

RIS   DE   VEAU   EN   CASSEROLES. 

Prepare  as  first  directed  ;  then  cut  in  dice  and  proceed  as 
in  receipt  for  Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms,  adding  almost 
an  equal  quantity  of  oysters  from  which  the  muscles  have  been 
removed  ;  use  a  generous  proportion  of  mushrooms,  more 
wine,  and  a  pinch  of  curry-powder  (not  enough  to  be  percep- 
tible) in  the  sauce,  also  a  dash  of  celery-salt. 

N.  B. — The  oysters  should  be  scalded  until  firm  in  their  own 
juice,  before  adding  to  the  sauce.  The  eggs  may  be  omitted 
if  rich  cream  is  used.  The  above  receipt  used  as  a  filling  for 
pat6s  of  fine  puff-paste,  vol-au-vent,  or  served  in  casseroles  or 
cases  will  be  found  most  delicious. 

SWEETBREAD  CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES   DE   RIS   DE   VEAU. 

1  pair  of  sweetbreads,  parboiled,  %  teaspoon  of  grated  nutmeg, 

1  gill  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

5  drops  of  onion-juice,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

X  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  chopped  mushrooms, 

Bread-crumbs,  eggs,  and  lard,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Trim  the  sweetbreads  and  chop,  not  too  fine,  using  a  silver 
knife.  Bring  the  cream  to  a  boil.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour 
together  over  the  fire ;  add  cream  ;  stir  smooth ;  boil  until 
very  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  the  fire  ;  add 
sweetbreads,  seasonings,  and  mushrooms.  Mix.  Turn  out 
on  a  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  and  firm,  have  a  plate  of  flour, 
a  plate  with  a  beaten  egg  (or  the  whites  alone),  and  a  bowl 
of  fine  sifted  bread-crumbs.  Flour  your  hands  ;  take  about 
atablespoonful  of  the  mixture,  quickly  form  it  into  shape  (the 


152  GOOD-LIVING. 

easiest  is  cylindrical,  I  x  2\  inches) ;  dip  this  deftly  into 
the  egg,  then  drop  it  into  the  bowl  of  crumbs  and  cover 
it  all  over.  Shape  it  again  carefully  and  lay  on  a  flat  dish. 
The  croquettes  should  not  touch,  that  the  air  may  reach 
all  sides.  There  is  a  great  knack  in  this  part  of  making  cro- 
quettes of  any  kind.  The  best  teacher  of  all  is  experience ; 
after  a  little  while  it  will  seem  quite  easy  to  handle  them. 
Set  away  in  the  ice-box  for  2  or  3  hours.  Have  lard  boiling 
in  a  saucepan  deep  enough  to  cover  the  croquettes  com- 
pletely. Put  them  in  a  frying-basket  and  plunge  them  into 
the  boiling  lard  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  When 
fried  golden  brown,  drain  on  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the 
oven ;  dish  on  a  cut  paper  or  folded  napkin  tastefully  gar- 
nished, and  serve  at  the  same  time  green  peas. 


SWEETBREADS,  BALTIMORE  STYLE. 

RIS   DE   VEAU    A   LA   BALTIMORE. 

2  pairs  sweetbreads,  2  gills  of  cream, 

I  tablespoon  of  butter,  I  teaspoon  of  butter, 

I  "  "   chopped  parsley,  I  "         "  grated  onion, 

Sifted  bread-crumbs,  I         "         "  flour, 

Pepper,  Salt. 

Having  prepared  the  sweetbreads  as  directed  in  first 
receipt,  dip  them  in  egg  and  fine,  sifted  bread-crumbs.  Set 
aside  I  hour.  Heat  I  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan  ;  when  bubbling,  lay  in  the  sweetbreads.  Brown  one 
side,  then  the  other.  Dish  the  sweetbreads.  Strain  the 
butter  into  a  clean  pan.  Add  the  onion,  cream,  pepper, 
salt,  and  I  extra  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  boil  for 
minutes.  Now  blend  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Stir  this  into  the  boiling  sauce.  Boil  3  minutes,  or  until 
thick  enough.  Add  parsley.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the 
sweetbreads.     Serve  immediately. 


CALF'S  HEAD  AU  GRATIN.  1 53 

CALF'S  HEAD  BOILED. 

TETE   DE   VEAU   AU    NATUREL. 

Wash  the  head  (which  should  already  be  prepared  free 
from  hair  and  bleached).  Be  very  careful  to  thoroughly 
cleanse  the  ears  inside.  Singe  off  any  little  downy  hairs  that 
may  remain.  Pour  boiling  water  through  the  throat  and 
nose  passages.  Put  the  head  into  a  large  kettle  of  cold 
water.  Bring  it  gradually  to  a  boil  and  skim  well.  When  it 
has  boiled  2  hours  take  it  out,  remove  the  eyes,  which  throw 
away ;  remove  the  tongue  and  skin  it.  Return  the  head  to 
the  kettle.  Add  salt,  pepper,  I  gill  of  vinegar,  a  large  bunch 
of  sweet  herbs,  spices,  and  I  clove  of  garlic.  Simmer  2  hours 
longer,  making  4  hours  in  all.  It  is  now  ready  to  serve  Au 
Naturel,  or  dressed  according  to  any  of  the  following  receipts. 
If  it  is  to  be  served  whole,  boiled,  it  is  advisable,  when  you 
take  it  out  after  the  first  2  hours,  to  rub  it  all  over  with 
lemon-juice  and  tie  it  up  in  a  clean,  floured  cloth.  It  will 
then  be  whiter.  Serve  plain  boiled  calf's  head  with  Maitre 
d'Hotel  or  Poivrade  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

CALF'S  HEAD  AU  GRATIN. 

TETE  DE  VEAU  AU  GRATIN. 

Having  boiled  the  calf's  head  as  directed  (see  receipt),  cut 
off  the  meat  from  each  side  of  the  head,  keeping  it  in  2 
large  pieces.  Lay  these  neatly  in  a  fire-proof  dish.  Pour 
over  it  a  mixture  of  melted  butter,  much  lemon-juice,  a 
little  French  mustard,  pepper,  and  salt.  Tuck  the  ears  under 
so  as  to  leave  a  smooth  surface.  Cover  this  with  a  beaten 
egg,  then  with  bread-crumbs  and  chopped  parsley ;  place  in 
the  oven  until  nicely  browned,  about  25  minutes.  There 
should  be  only  butter,  etc.,  enough  to  moisten  and  flavor  the 
meat ;  not  enough  to  make  a  liquid  sauce  around  it.  The 
brains,  after  being  prepared  as  directed  (see  To  Prepare 
Calf's  Brains),  may  be  divided  into  pieces,  dipped  in  batter 
or  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  fried  in  boiling  lard,  and  served  at 
the  same  time  as  a  garnish. 


1 5  4  GOOD-LI  VING. 

CALF'S  HEAD   WITH  MUSHROOMS  AND 
TOM  A  TOES. 

TETE  DE  VEAU  AUX  TOMATES. 

Having  boiled  the  head  as  directed  (see  receipt),  cut  the 
meat  from  it  carefully ;  skin  the  tongue  and  slice  it.  Put 
meat,  tongue,  and  the  brains  (which  have  been  previously  pre- 
pared) upon  a  hot  dish  and  keep  warm  while  the  sauce  is 
being  made. 

I  pt.  of  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled,  i  tablespoon  of  sherry, 

i  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  of  flour,  browned,  I  ' '         Worcestershire  sauce, 

5  mushrooms,  cut  fine,  I  "  of  mushroom  catsup, 

Yz  teaspoon  of  salt,  Cayenne. 

Blend  the  flour  and  butter  with  the  liquor.  Boil  5  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients. 
Garnish  the  dish  with  6  Baked  Tomatoes  (see  receipt)  ;  pour 
the  gravy  over  the  meat  and  serve. 

CALF'S  HEAD  CHEESE. 

FROMAGE  DE  TETE  DE  VEAU. 

I  head,  Sage,  parsley,  thyme,  sweet 

1  cup  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  marjoram,  powdered, 

2  large  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  4  cloves  of  garlic, 
I  tablespoon  of  salt,  2  carrots, 
Cayenne,  2  onions, 

I  lb.  of  sausage  meat,  10  whole  cloves. 

Mace,  cloves,  allspice,  ground,  20      "      allspice, 

I  slice  of  cold  ham. 

Wash  the  head,  carefully  cleansing  the  ears,  and  scalding 
nose  and  throat  passages.  Put  it  into  a  large  soup-kettle  with 
sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  it.  Add  the  salt.  Bring  it 
slowly  to  a  boil  and  boil  about  two  hours.  Then  remove  the 
eyes  and  throw  them  away.  Also  remove  the  tongue,  which 
should  be  tender  enough  by  this  time.  Put  it  away  until 
required.  (Skin  it  before  using.)  Return  the  rest  of  the  head 
to  the  fire,  adding  the  carrots,  onions,  and  2  cloves  of  garlic. 
Let  it  boil  until  the  bones  slip  out  easily ;  about  3^  hours 
in  all,  after  it   once   breaks   into   a   boil.      Take  out  the 


CALF'S  HEAD  A    LA    TERRA  PLN.  I  55 

head  and  remove  all  the  bones  and  any  of  the  cartilage 
that  is  too  hard  to  put  into  the  cheese.  Put  the  large  bones 
back  into  the  soup-kettle  and  let  it  all  boil  down  for  soup. 
Put  the  smaller  pieces  into  a  saucepan  with  about  I  quart  of 
the  liquor  in  which  the  head  was  boiled.  Add  2  cloves  of 
garlic,  10  cloves,  20  allspice,  and  let  it  boil  rapidly  with  the 
cover  off  while  you  prepare  the  meat.  Chop  the  meat  of 
the  head  into  rather  large  pieces  ;  mix  with  it  the  bread- 
crumbs, sausage-meat,  vinegar,  salt,  cayenne,  and  black  pep- 
per;  then  add  ground  mace,  cloves,  and  allspice  to  taste,  also 
the  powdered  herbs  ;  about  1  teaspoonful  each  of  the  latter ; 
it  must  be  tasted  and  seasoned  according  to  requirements. 
Now  make  the  mixture  quite  soft  (as  soft  as  batter)  by 
straining  into  it  some  of  the  liquor  that  has  been  boiling 
down  in  the  saucepan.  When  well  mixed  and  soft,  put  the 
mixture  into  a  saucepan  and  set  it  over  the  fire,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  prevent  scorching.  Be  most  careful  not  to  allow 
it  to  scorch.  Stir  until  it  has  boiled  at  least  3  minutes. 
Rinse  out  with  cold  water  tins  the  shape  of  a  loaf ;  pour  the 
mixture  into  them,  putting  first  a  layer  of  this,  then  a  few 
larger  pieces  of  tongue  and  some  strips  of  cold  boiled  ham. 
Fill  with  the  mixture  and  set  away  to  harden  for  at  least  6 
hours.  When  cut  in  slices,  the  addition  of  the  ham  will 
make  it  prettily  marbled.  Eat  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 
This  is  excellent,  and  less  trouble  than  it  seems. 

CALF'S  HEAD  A  LA    TERRAPIN. 

TETE  DE  VEAU  A  LA  TERRAPIN. 
Having  boiled  a  calf's  head  (see  receipt),  cut  the  meat  in 
pieces  from  the  cheek  about  1  inch  square.  Make  a  Terra- 
pin Sauce  (see  receipt) ;  stir  the  calf's  head  into  this  sauce. 
It  is  best  made  early  and  stood  away  for  some  hours  before 
dinner.  The  hard-boiled  whites  of  the  eggs  may  be  sliced 
and  stirred  in  with  the  meat.  When  required,  place  the 
bowl  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  {bain-marie)  for  30  or  45 
minutes,  where  it  will  heat  without  cooking.  Serve  it  in  a 
casserole  or  deep  dish.     Delicious. 


156  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  PREPARE  CALVES'  BRAINS  FOR  COOKING. 

Wash  first  in  clear,  cold  water.  Throw  this  off.  Cover 
again  with  cold  water,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Let  them  soak  from  20  to  30  minutes. 
Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  saucepan  of  salted  boiling  water ; 
lay  in  the  brains;  let  them  remain  until  firm,  about  15  min- 
utes, then  drain  and  plunge  again  into  cold  water.  This 
process  whitens  them.  When  cold,  draw  off  all  the  fibres 
that  you  can  without  breaking  them  into  pieces.  After  this, 
they  are  ready  to  dress  according  to  any  of  the  following  re- 
ceipts. 

CALVES'  BRAINS  FRIED. 

CERVELLES   DE   VEAU    FRITES. 

Prepare  as  above  ;  dip  first  in  bread-crumbs,  then  in  egg, 
and  again  in  crumbs.  Set  in  the  ice-box  for  at  least  I  hour. 
Fry  in  boiling  lard  until  golden  brown  (see  General  Di- 
rections for  Frying).  Drain  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth 
of  the  oven  ;  dish  ;  garnish  with  parsley  and  lemon,  and 
serve  with  Tomato  or  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

CALVES'  BRAINS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

CERVELLES  DE  VEAU  A  LA  POULETTE. 

Having  prepared  the  brains  as  first  directed,  cut  into 
pieces  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  heat  in  a  Poulette  Sauce 
(see  receipt),  adding  mushrooms. 

FRITTERS  OF  CALVES'  BRAINS. 

BEIGNETS   DE   CERVELLES   DE   VEAU. 

2  pairs  of  brains,  Fritter  batter, 

Lard,  Pepper,  salt,  and  lemon-juice. 

Having  prepared  the  brains  as  first  directed,  when  cold, 
remove  the  veins  as  far  as  possible  without  breaking  them 
too  much.  Season  them  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  squeeze  of 
lemon-juice,  or  nutmeg  if  preferred.     Divide  in  small,  even 


CALVES'   BRAINS  WITH  MACARONI.  1 57 

pieces  not  less  than  I  x  I  inch.  Dip  in  very  thick  batter  (see 
batter  for  Clam  Fritters).  Bring  the  lard  to  a  boil  (see  General 
Directions  for  Frying).  Too  great  stress  cannot  be  laid 
upon  this  essential  for  successful  frying.  Let  it  be  deep 
enough  to  cook  the  brains  without  their  touching  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan,  that  they  may  puff  equally  on  all  sides. 
Turn  them  to  brown  evenly.  When  golden  brown,  skim  out 
and  lay  upon  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  dry, 
serve  on  a  folded  napkin  or  cut  paper  ;  garnish  with  a  bunch 
of  Fried  Parsley  (see  receipt).  Serve  with  Mayonnaise,  To- 
mato, or  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

CALVES'  BRAINS  AU  BEURRE  NOIR. 

CERVELLES   DE   VEAU   AU   BEURRE   NOIR. 

Prepare  the  brains  as  first  directed.  Melt  a  tablespoonful 
of  butter  in  a  frying-pan.  When  it  is  bubbling,  lay  in  the 
brains  whole  or  cut  in  halves.  Turn  and  fry  brown  on  all 
sides.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish.  If  the  butter  has  been  ab- 
sorbed too  much,  add  another  spoonful  and  let  it  fry  until 
quite  dark  brown,  then  add  2  to  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar 
according  to  the  quantity  of  sauce  required.  Add  pepper 
and  salt.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  fried  brains.  The 
sauce  should  taste  very  strong  of  vinegar.  This  is  one  of 
the  most  acceptable  ways  of  cooking  calves'  brains. 

CALVES'  BRAINS  WITH  MACARONI. 

CERVELLES  DE  VEAU  SAUTEES  A  LA  MILANAISE. 

Serve  fried  in  butter,  dressed  on  a  bed  of  Macaroni  a 
la  Milanaise  (see  receipt). 

Note.  Nearly  all  receipts  for  sweetbreads  will  serve  for 
the  preparation  of  calves'  brains. 


158  GOOD-LIVING. 


LIVER  AND  BACON. 

Liver,  Bacon, 

Flour,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Cut  calf's  liver  in  slices  fully  ■§-  an  inch  thick  ;  throw  boiling 
water  over  and  let  stand  for  5  minutes.  Wipe  dry.  Coat 
thickly  with  flour.  Have  ready  a  frying-pan  with  the  strips 
of  bacon  cut  thin.  Fry  3  minutes.  If  necessary,  add  a  lit- 
tle lard  if  the  bacon  does  not  yield  enough  fat.  When  very 
hot,  drop  in  the  slices  of  liver,  fry  a  few  minutes  one  side, 
then  turn  and  fry  the  other.  When  well  browned,  pour  in 
boiling  water  sufficient  to  half-cover  the  liver.  Season. 
Cover  tightly  and  set  back  where  it  will  simmer  gently  for 
20  to  30  minutes.  Then  remove  the  liver  to  a  hot  dish  with 
the  bacon  ;  set  the  frying-pan  over  the  fire,  boil  briskly  and 
stir.  If  it  has  steamed  off  too  much,  add  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  boiling  water,  boil,  stir,  and  pour  over  the  liver.  This 
is  no  more  difficult  than  the  coarsest  and  commonest  way  of 
cooking  liver,  and  makes  of  that  article  of  food  a  tasty  dish, 
instead  of  what  is  generally  set  before  one  under  the  name 
of  liver  and  bacon — "  chips  and  grease  "  might  be  a  more 
appropriate  term.  An  onion  cut  fine  and  fried  first  with  the 
bacon,  is  a  great  addition,  according  to  taste. 

CALF'S  LIVER  BRAISED. 

FOIE   DE   VEAU    BRAISE. 

I  large  liver,  2  carrots,  sliced, 

Parsley,  I  turnip 

3  cloves,  2  onions      " 

6  allspice,  Celery        ' ' 

I  bay-leaf,  )(.  lb.  bacon, 

Butter,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Tie  the  liver  in  a  neat  roll.  If  you  cannot  procure  1  large 
one,  take  2  smaller.  If  nicely  tied  up  they  look  like  a  pair 
of  ducks  when  served.  Fry  the  onions  and  carrots  in  but- 
ter. Have  an  iron  pot  well  heated.  Lay  in  the  slices  of 
bacon  and  fry  for  a  few  minutes  ;  when  the  fat  is  melted  out, 


MOCK  TERRAPIN.  1 59 

lay  in  the  liver,  turning  it  to  sear  on  all  sides.  Do  not  sear 
it  too  long  or  it  will  harden  the  skin.  When  ready,  turn  in 
the  fried  vegetables  ;  add  all  other  vegetables  and  seasonings 
and  enough  boiling  water  or  stock  to  half-cover  the  liver. 
Lay  a  little  more  bacon  over  the  liver.  Close  the  pot 
air-tight.  Bring  to  a  rapid  boil,  then  set  away  where  it 
will  only  simmer  for  about  2  hours.  When  the  liver  is  per- 
fectly cooked  and  firm  to  the  touch,  remove  it  to  a  hot  dish. 
Bring  the  gravy  to  a  rapid  boil  ;  add  to  it  a  roux  made  of 
1  teaspoonful  of  butter  and  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour 
stirred  together  over  the  fire  until  brown,  then  blended  with 
a  little  of  the  boiling  sauce.  After  adding  this  to  the  pot, 
stir  and  let  the  gravy  boil  briskly  for  5  minutes.  Strain  it. 
Put  the  vegetables  around  the  liver ;  pour  some  of  the 
sauce  over  the  liver  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat.  A 
little  wine  may  be  added  to  the  sauce,  but  is  not  indispensa- 
ble.    Recommended. 

ROASTED  LIVER. 

FOIE    DE   VEAU   ROTI. 

Prepare  as  above.  Cut  the  vegetables  fine  and  put  a  layer 
of  them  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Cover  the  liver  with 
bread-crumbs  ;  over  this  lay  thin  strips  of  bacon.  Lay  the 
liver  on  the  vegetables.  Roast  slowly  for  about  2  hours, 
basting  frequently  with  good  stock  or  boiling  water.  Thicken 
the  sauce  as  above  directed.  Liver  may  also  be  roasted 
without  the  bed  of  vegetables,  but  is  not  as  tasty. 

N.  B. — The  liver  should  be  covered  with  a  second  pan  to 
prevent  the  surface  from  hardening. 

MOCK  TERRAPIN. 

%  calf's  liver,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

2  gills  of  boiling  water,  I  teaspoon  of  mixed  mustard, 

yz  gill  of  wine,  Cayenne  to  taste, 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine. 

Season  the  liver  with  salt  and  fry  slowly  till  brown  ;  cut 
it  in  small  dice  ;    dredge  with  flour  ;    add  the  mustard,  eggs, 


l6o  GOOD-LIVING. 

water,  pepper  and  butter.  Let  it  boil  2  or  3  minutes ;  then 
add  the  wine,  stirring  well  to  mix  it  all  through.  Serve. 
Cold  veal  may  be  substituted  for  the  liver. 

If  beef's  liver  is  used,  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the 
slices  and  let  stand  5  minutes  before  draining  it  off,  cooking 
as  above. 

CALF' SLIVER  SAUTE. 

FOIE  DE  VEAU  SAUTE. 
1  liver,  Butter, 

Lemon-juice,  Parsley, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Wine  to  taste. 

Slice  the  liver.  Throw  boiling  water  over  it  for  a  minute. 
Have  the  butter  very  hot  in  a  frypan.  Lay  the  slices  in, 
turning  first  one  side,  then  the  other  until  cooked  firm. 
Place  neatly  on  a  hot  dish.  Squeeze  lemon-juice  and  sprinkle 
parsley  over  the  top.  Add  the  butter  in  which  the  liver  was 
cooked,  also  a  little  wine,  and  serve.  The  gravy  can  be 
slightly  thickened  if  preferred. 

N.B. — Beef's  liver  should  be  cut  in  slices,  and  boiling  water 
poured  over  it  allowing  it  to  stand  5  minutes  before  cooking. 
Wipe  the  slices  dry  and  cook  according  to  any  of  the  above 
receipts. 

LIVER  SMOTHERED  IN  ONIONS. 

Prepare  like  Beefsteak  Smothered  in  Onions,  having  first 
sauted  or  fried  the  liver. 

LIVER  SA  UTE  WITH  PICKLE  SA  UCE. 

FOIE  DE  VEAU  SAUTE  AUX  CORNICHONS. 

Sauce  :     i  teaspoon  of  butter, 
Liver,  2  "       "   flour, 

Lard,  I  cup  of  boiling  water, 

Parsley,  chopped  fine,  I  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 

Onion  "         "  Pepper  and  salt, 

I  tablespoon  of  capers  or  pickles. 

Cut  the  liver  in  small,  neat  slices.  Melt  lard  £  an  inch 
deep  in  the  frying-pan.     Heat  by  degrees  until  smoking  hot. 


i 


FOURCHETTE.  l6l 

While  the  lard  is  heating,  make  the  sauce  as  follows  :  Brown 
the  butter  and  flour  together  over  the  fire,  and  when  it  is  a 
good  color,  but  not  burned,  stir  in  slowly  the  boiling  water, 
blending  perfectly  smooth.  Boil  3  minutes.  Add  salt  and 
pepper  and  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  capers  or  chopped 
pickles.  Set  the  saucepan  on  one  side  of  the  fire,  where  it 
will  keep  hot  without  cooking.  Now  put  the  parsley  and 
onion  into  the  lard  and  let  it  cook  2  minutes,  then  lay  the 
sliced  liver  in  the  lard  and  turn  constantly  until  slightly 
browned  on  both  sides.  It  is  cooked  when  it  is  firm  under 
the  pressure  of  the  fork.  As  it  finishes,  lay  each  piece  in  the 
sauce,  covering  it  all  over.  When  all  is  cooked,  dish  the 
pieces  in  a  circle  and  pour  the  sauce  over  all.  This  is  much 
better  than  the  ordinary  way  of  frying  it. 

BROILED  LIVER. 

FOIE  DE  VEAU  GRILLE. 

Cut  the  liver  in  thin  slices  ;  lay  it  in  salted  cold  water  for  30 
minutes,  then  wipe  dry ;  lay  the  slices  on  a  hot  greased 
broiler,  turning  often  and  basting  with  melted  butter.  This 
should  be  done  on  a  gridiron  under  the  fire,  and  all  the  gravy 
should  be  collected  in  a  trough  or  pan  at  the  bottom  ;  pour 
this  over  the  liver.       Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve. 

FOURCHETTE. 

Take  slices  of  salt  pork  about  \  of  an  inch  thick  and  2  or  3 

inches  square  ;  also  slices  of  calf's  liver  the  same  size.     Put 

these  alternatively  on  a  long  skewer  beginning  and  ending 

with  pork.     Lay  it  in  the  oven  across  a  dripping-pan  and 

roast  it  as  you  would  a  bird,  basting  occasionally  with  a  little 

boiling  water  from  the  roasting-pan.      It  will  take  15  to  20 

minutes.     The  liver  is  done  when  firm  to  the  touch,  and  the 

pork  should  be  transparent.     When  cooked,  draw  out  the 

skewer  and  serve  in  alternate  slices  of  pork  and  liver.  If  you 

use  silver  or  plated  skewers,  serve  without  removing. 
11 


1 62  GOOD-LIVING. 


TO  PREPARE  TRIPE. 

Wash  it  in  3  or  4  waters  until  perfectly  clean.  It  is  always 
bleached  before  it  comes  from  market.  In  former  times  such 
was  not  the  case,  and  it  was  necessary  to  take  much  more 
trouble  in  its  preparation.  When  thoroughly  clean,  put  it 
into  a  kettle  with  cold  water,  salt,  and  1  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Add  a  couple  of  onions. 
Stand  the  kettle  where  the  tripe  will  simmer  gently  for  fully 
5  hours,  until  it  is  so  tender  that  you  can  easily  pierce  it 
through.  Drain  thoroughly,  and  it  is  now  ready  to  be 
dressed  according  to  any  of  the  following  receipts. 

FRIED    TRIPE. 

TRIPE  FRITE. 

Having  prepared  the  tripe  as  above,  cut  it  in  strips  about 
1  inch  wide  by  3  long.  Coat  it  first  with  egg,  then  with 
bread-crumbs  and  drop  it  into  boiling  lard  (see  General 
Directions  for  Frying).  When  very  light  golden-brown,  drain 
it  out,  dry  on  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  serve  on 
a  folded  napkin.  To  be  eaten  with  Soubise,  Tomato, 
Poivrade,  or  Piquante  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

TRIPE  SA  UTE. 

TRIPE  SAUTE. 

Having  prepared  as  above,  cut  in  strips  like  cigarettes. 
Have  some  butter  heated  in  a  saucepan.  Throw  in  the  tripe  ; 
toss  and  turn  it  until  very  slightly  browned  ;  sprinkle  with 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  serve. 

TRIPE  A  LA  POULETTE. 

TRIPE  A   LA   POULETTE. 

Having  prepared  the  tripe  as  first  directed,  make  a  rich  Pou- 
lette  Sauce  (see  receipt).     Have  ready  8  to  12  small  white 


STUFFED   CALF'S  HEART.  163 

onions  cooked  in  plain  boiling  water  until  perfectly  tender. 
Add  these  to  the  Poulette  Sauce  and  let  them  stew  while 
you  cut  the  tripe  in  neat  pieces,  diamond-shaped,  square,  or 
long.  Add  the  tripe  to  the  sauce ;  stew  the  whole  gently 
over  boiling  water  (bain-marie)  for  30  minutes.  Note. — Do 
not  under  any  circumstances  add  the  egg-yolks  to  a  Poulette 
Sauce  until  just  ready  to  serve.  If  the  sauce  is  boiled  after 
they  are  in,  it  will  curdle.  Season  with  parsley,  pepper,  salt, 
and  lemon-juice,  and  serve. 

CALVES'   KIDNEYS. 

ROGNONS   DE   VEAU. 

These  are  very  delicate ;  far  better  than  either  beef  or 
lamb  kidneys.  Prepare  according  to  any  of  the  receipts 
given  for  these  latter. 

STUFFED  CALF'S  HEART. 

CCEUR    DE   VEAU    FARCI. 

Wash  off,  but  do  not  soak.  Stuff  with  a  Turkey  or  Veal 
Dressing  (see  receipts),  highly  seasoned.  Tie  a  buttered 
paper  over  the  open  end  and  bake  in  a  small  pan  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  a  little  boiling  water.  Bake  2  hours,  basting  often. 
When  nearly  done,  remove  the  paper  and  let  the  top  brown ; 
blend  a  little  corn-starch  with  cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  boil- 
ing gravy;  boil  3  minutes,  strain,  skim,  season,  and  pour  it 
over  the  heart.  Garnish  with  onions  that  have  been  first 
boiled,  then  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar,  and 
browned  in  the  oven. 


PORK. 

ROAST  PIG. 

COCHON   DE   LAIT   ROTI. 

i  pig  3  weeks  old,  2  large  onions,  minced, 

3  teaspoons  of  chopped  sage,  2  ounces  of  butter, 
y^  saltspoon  of  pepper,  I  saltspoon  of  salt, 

4  times  the  bulk  of  onions  in  bread-crumbs,  i  egg. 

The  pig  should  be  well  cleaned,  skinned,  and  washed. 
Make  a  dressing  of  the  above  ingredients ;  fill  the  pig  with 
it,  and  sew  up  with  strong  thread,  trussing  the  front  legs 
forward,  the  hind  legs  up  against  the  body  as  if  lying  down. 
Put  a  clean  bit  of  wood  between  the  jaws  to  keep  them 
slightly  open.  Rub  the  pig  all  over  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  then  dredge  with  flour.  Put  in  a  pan  in  the  oven ;  in 
the  pan  put  a  very  little  boiling  water.  The  heat  should  not 
be  too  intense  at  first.  It  must  cook  slowly.  Baste  very 
frequently,  especially  as  it  comes  near  being  done.  When 
cooked  (in  about  3  hours),  remove  the  bit  of  wood  and  re- 
place it  by  the  classic  corn  cob,  or  by  a  small  red  apple. 
Serve  with  Apple  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Eat,  and  imagine,  if 
you  can,  that  the  shade  of  Charles  Lamb  is  hovering  over 
you.  The  dressing  indicated  may  be  replaced  by  plain 
mashed  potatoes,  or  by  a  force-meat  of  veal,  etc.  (see  re- 
ceipts for  Force-meats). 

ROAST  LOIN  OF  PORK. 

LONGE   DE   PORC   ROTIE. 

If  the  loin  to  be  roasted  is  skinned,  cover  the  top  with 

buttered  paper ;  if  the  skin  is  on  it,  which  is  preferable,  score 

164 


PORK  TENDERLOINS.  165 

with  a  sharp  penknife  in  close  lines  down  and  across.  This 
latter  will  make  what  old-fashioned  people  call  the  "  Crack- 
lin',"  and  is  very  nutty.  Rub  the  loin  all  over  with  pow- 
dered sage.  Put  it  into  a  very  moderate  oven,  with  very 
little  boiling  water  in  the  pan.  Pork  must  always  cook 
slowly  and  long.  Allow  fully  20  minutes  to  the  pound  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Baste  frequently,  and  when  done,  serve 
with  Apple  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

BROILED  PORK  CHOPS  WITH  PICKLE  SA  UCE. 

COTELETTES   DE   PORC   GRILLEES   AUX   CORNICHONS. 

Use  the  rib  chops.  Clean  off  the  handles ;  dip  first  in 
melted  butter,  then  in  bread-crumbs,  and  broil  over  a  clear 
fire.     Sauce  for  the  same  : 

4  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  pickles  or  capers, 

8  or  10  tablespoons  of  stock,  Pepper, 

Corn-starch,  Salt. 

Boil  the  vinegar  and  stock  together ;  while  boiling,  stir  in 
just  enough  corn-starch  blended  with  a  little  cold  stock  to 
make  the  sauce  as  thick  as  cream.  Stir  quickly  and  boil  3 
minutes.  Add  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  pickles  or  capers, 
and  pour  over  the  chops,  which  have  been  dished  in  a  circle, 
with  a  frill  on  each  chop  handle.     Serve. 

PORK   TENDERLOINS. 

FILETS   DE   PORC   SAUTES. 

Split  the  tenderloins  lengthwise,  but  do  not  separate  the 
two  halves.  Spread  them  open  ;  rub  all  over  with  powdered 
sage  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  a  very  hot 
frying-pan  with  a  teaspoonful  of  butter  or  sweet  drippings 
melted  in  it.  Lay  in  the  tenderloins.  In  about  1  minute 
turn  them.  Do  not  leave  them  long  on  any  one  side.  Saut6 
them  until  slightly  browned  and  quite  firm  under  pressure 
of  the  fork.  They  must  be  thoroughly  cooked  through,  as 
pork  should  always  be  eaten  well  done.  Serve  with  Apple 
Sauce  (see  receipt)  or  with  grape  or  currant  jelly. 


l66  GOOD-LIVING. 

PORK  AND  BEANS. 

I  quart  of  white  beans,  I  large  onion,  cut  fine, 

^  pound  of  salt  pork  cut  in  strips,  Pepper  and  salt, 

I  tablespoon  of  molasses,  Cold  water  to  cover. 

Put  all  but  the  molasses  in  a  pot.  Stand  for  an  hour  or 
more  at  the  side  of  the  range  to  heat  slowly.  If  the  beans 
can  be  soaked  overnight,  then  they  may  be  brought  to  a 
boil  more  quickly  and  will  take  much  less  time  to  cook. 
Boil  very  slowly.  It  is  advisable,  when  boiling,  to  throw  in 
a  gill  of  cold  water  from  time  to  time.  This  makes  the 
hearts  of  the  beans  cook  more  evenly  with  the  outsides. 
When  boiled  perfectly  tender,  which  will  be  from  3  to  6 
hours,  according  to  whether  or  not  the  beans  have  been  pre- 
viously soaked,  drain  off  the  liquor  into  a  bowl ;  put  the 
beans  into  a  bake-dish  with  the  molasses,  and  fill  to  their 
level  with  the  liquor  of  the  beans  ;  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven 
for  about  2  hours.  The  top  should  be  nicely  browned,  but 
not  too  dark,  and  the  beans  soft  and  creamy  all  through. 
For  Boston  Baked  Beans,  see  receipt. 

TO  BOIL  A  HAM. 

JAMBON. 

Soak  it  overnight.  If  very  dry,  soak  from  24  to  48  hours. 
Scrape  well  and  put  in  a  kettle  on  the  fire,  with  plenty  of  cold 
water  to  cover  it.  Simmer  gently  from  5  to  8  hours,  allowing 
about  18  or  20  minutes  to  the  pound  (see  Time-table.)  It 
is  done  when  the  small  bone  in  the  hock  can  be  drawn  out 
easily.  Then  set  aside  the  pot  for  the  ham  to  get  cold  in 
the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled.  When  nearly  cold,  care- 
fully remove  the  skin.  Do  not  cut,  but  draw  it  off.  Dot 
the  top  all  over  with  black  pepper. 

Or,  brush  the  top  with  egg  ;  cover  with  a  mixture  of 
bread-crumbs,  pepper,  salt,  sugar,  and  a  little  made  mustard. 
If  mustard  is  used,  mix  the  egg  with  the  bread-crumbs  and 
spread  all  over  the  ham  ;  then  set  it  in  the  oven  until  brown, 


FRIED  HAM.  1 67 

basting  frequently  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  a 
little  boiling  water  in  the  pan.  If  very  fat,  the  ham  may 
remain  some  time  in  the  oven  with  advantage,  as  the  fat  will 
melt  out  to  a  certain  extent.  Bake  from  1  to  2  hours  in  a 
slow  oven.  Practical  experience  of  this  mode  of  treating  a 
ham  has  proved  entirely  satisfactory. 

LUNCH  HAM. 

Cut  slices  of  cold,  boiled  ham  ;  broil  them  ;  lay  on  a  dish 
with  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  vinegar,  pepper,  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley. 

HAM  TOAST  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

I  pint  chopped  lean  ham,  2  beaten  eggs, 

i}i  ounces  of  butter,  Toast.     Pepper. 

Melt  the  butter ;  lay  in  the  ham.  Season.  When  hot,  stir 
in  the  eggs.  Stir  until  they  set  slightly ;  then  spread  on 
slices  of  toast  and  serve.  Be  careful  not  to  let  the  egg 
harden  too  much.  Cold  tongue  may  be  used  in  the  same 
way. 

BROILED  HAM. 

JAMBON    GRILLE. 

Never,  if  you  can  avoid  it,  broil  ham  which  has  not  been 
previously  boiled.  It  is  most  unwholesome.  Cut  the  slices 
not  as  thin  as  for  frying,  about  \  of  an  inch  thick.  Have  the 
broiler  very  hot.  Lay  on  the  slices  of  ham,  turning  fre- 
quently, until  thoroughly  hot  and  slightly  browned.     Serve. 

FRIED  HAM. 

JAMBON   FRIT. 

Same  rule  applies  to  this  as  to  broiled  ham  ;  never  fry  ham 
unless  previously  boiled.  It  is  unwholesome.  Cut  thin  slices 
of  ham  ;  have  the  frying-pan  heated  very  hot ;  lay  the  ham 
in,  turning  frequently  to  prevent  hardening.  When  the  fat 
is  transparent,  serve. 


1 68  GOOD-LIVING. 

WESTPHALIA   CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES  DE  JAMBON  A  LA  WESTPHALIE. 

^£  lb.  of  finely-chopped  ham,  I  lb.  of  mashed  potato, 

yi  gill  of  cream,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

}£  teaspoon  of  pepper,  Egg,  lard,  bread-crumbs. 

Mix  the  ham  with  the  hot  potatoes  ;  add  the  cream,  butter, 
and  pepper,  also  salt,  but  only  if  necessary.  Mould  into  round 
balls,  or  long  cylinder-shaped  croquettes,  I  x  2\  inches  ;  dip 
in  beaten  egg  and  fine  bread-crumbs.  Lay  in  a  frying-basket 
and  fry  in  deep  boiling  lard  until  golden  brown  (see  Gen- 
eral Directions  for  Frying).  Serve  in  a  pyramid  on  cut  paper, 
garnish  with  parsley.  For  detailed  directions  for  dipping, 
see  Sweetbread   Croquettes. 

HAM  SOUFFLE. 

SOUFFLE  AU  JAMBON. 

2  gills  of  ham,  grated  as  fine  as  pow-         i  teaspoon  of  parsley,  chopped  as  fine 
der,  as  powder, 

3  eggs  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  apart,        Pepper  and  a  little  salt . 

Heat  i  dish,  or  several  small  souffle  cases.  Mix  together 
ham,  parsley,  yolks,  pepper,  and  salt.  Beat  very  hard  and 
long.  At  the  last  moment  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  dry, 
stiff  froth  ;  beat  together  only  just  enough  to  mix.  Fill  the 
dish  f  full  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  from  6  to  io  minutes. 
2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  very  thick  Cream  Sauce  (see  re- 
ceipt) may  be  beaten  up  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  or  may  be 
omitted. 

HAM  PUFFS. 

i  pint  of  water,  4  eggs, 

i  pint  of  flour,  3  ounces  of  finely-chopped  ham, 

Yj,  teaspoon  of  curry-powder,  Cayenne. 

While  the  water  is  boiling,  stir  in  the  flour ;  beat  well  and 
stir  until  the  stiff  batter  leaves  the  sides  of  the  saucepan. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  beat  in  the  eggs  I  at  a  time  ;  add 


HEAD    CHEESE.  1 69 

the  ham,  curry,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  little  salt,  unless 
the  ham  is  already  salt  enough.  Have  on  the  fire  a  pan  of 
deep  lard.  Bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil  (see  General  Directions 
for  Frying).  When  the  lard  is  boiling,  drop  in  the  batter  in 
bits  |-  as  large  as  a  hen's  egg.  Fry  golden  brown  ;  drain  on 
soft  paper,  and  serve  in  a  pyramid  on  cut  paper  or  a  folded 
napkin,  garnished  with  parsley  ;  or  use  as  a  garnish  for  turkey, 
chickens,  or  veal.  Note. — The  lard  should  be  deep  enough 
to  float  the  fritters,  or  they  will  not  puff  as  they  should. 

HAM  BALLS. 

yi  cup  of  cooked  ham  or  tongue,  Cayenne, 

2  tablespoons  of  dried  bread-crumbs,  Yolk  of  1  egg, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  gill  of  milk. 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil ;  add  to  it  the  crumbs  ;  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  it  thickens.  Add  the  ham  finely  chopped, 
parsley,  cayenne,  and  the  yolk  of  egg.  Stir  and  mix  well. 
Turn  it  out  on  the  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  and  firm,  form 
into  small  balls  ;  roll  first  in  egg,  then  in  bread-crumbs  and 
set  in  the  ice-box  for  at  least  1  hour.  Heat  deep  lard  to  a 
boil.  Put  the  balls  in  a  frying-basket  ;  plunge  into  the  boil- 
ing lard  and  fry  golden-brown  (see  General  Directions  for 
Frying).  Then  remove  to  a  folded  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the 
oven  for  I  minute  to  dry.  Serve  on  a  folded  napkin.  This 
is  also  a  good  garnish  for  chicken  and  a  nice  relish  for  break- 
fast. 

HEAD   CHEESE. 

FROMAGE   DE   COCHON. 

Having  previously  cleaned  it  thoroughly,  put  a  pig's  head 
into  a  large  pot ;  cover  with  cold  water.  (It  is  assumed  that 
the  head  has  already  been  cleaned  of  all  hair.)  Bring  it 
gradually  to  a  boil,  adding  a  large  tablespoonful  of  salt. 
Boil  until  very  tender,  about  4  hours.  Strip  the  meat  from 
the  bones  ;  throw  away  the  eyes,  which  are  best  removed 
after  the  head  has  been  boiled  2  hours  ;  chop  the  meat 
coarsely,  reserving  some  strips  of  tongue  whole.      Season 


170  GOOD-LIVING. 

highly  with  sage,  black  pepper,  powdered  cloves,  allspice, 
mace,  thyme,  and  sweet  marjoram,  and  1  gill  of  good  vine- 
gar. Meanwhile  let  the  liquor  boil  down,  and  when  the 
meat  is  all  chopped,  add  a  little  of  the  liquor  to  slightly 
soften  it.  Rinse  out  bread-tins  with  cold  water  ;  put  in  the 
mixture,  with  the  strips  of  tongue  laid  lengthwise  ;  set  away 
in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  A  few  bits  of  cold  boiled  smoked 
beef's  tongue  will  also  add  to  the  marbled  effect  when  cut  in 
slices.  The  addition  of  a  little  of  the  liquor  boiled  down 
fills  in  the  crevices  with  jelly.  It  will  be  ready  for  use  as 
soon  as  it  is  quite  stiff,  from  6  to  12  hours. 

SCRAPPLE. 

Boil  a  pig's  head  as  directed  for  Head  Cheese  with  4 
quarts  of  water,  a  little  sage,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cut  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  rejecting  the  eyes  ;  chop  the  rest  quite 
fine  and  return  it  to  the  liquor.  Add  enough  corn-meal  to 
slightly  thicken.  Simmer  2  hours,  when  it  should  be  of 
the  consistency  of  soft  mush,  not  too  thick  to  pour.  Watch 
carefully,  and  stir  often  to  prevent  scorching.  Rinse  ou 
bread-pans  in  cold  water ;  pour  the  mixture  into  the  pans 
and  set  away  to  harden.  When  cold  and  stiff  it  may  b 
sliced  and  fried  for  breakfast.  The  slices  must  be  rather 
more  than  \  an  inch  thick,  and  should  be  carefully  turnec 
with  the  cake-turner,  as  they  break  very  easily.  Serve  very 
hot,  and  eat  with  a  few  drops  of  pepper-vinegar  added  at 
the  table. 

CREOLE  SAUSAGES. 

SAUCISSES   A   LA   CREOLE. 

1  pound  of  sausages  (about  6  to  a  pound),         I  clove  of  garlic,  pounded, 
i  quart  of  tomatoes,  or  half  a  can,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

%  saltspoon  of  pepper. 

Prick  the  sausages  and  lay  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  the 
tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  the  garlic,  and  seasonings.  Cov 
the  saucepan  closely  and  simmer  gently  30  minutes.  (Th 
sauce  may  be  slightly  thickened  with  corn-starch.)  Serve 
Very  nice  for  luncheon. 


SAUSAGE  ROLL.  171 

FRIED  SAUSAGES  AND  APPLES. 

SAUCISSES  FRITES  AUX  POMMES. 

Prick  the  sausages  and  fry,  turning  frequently  to  keep 
from  hardening  any  one  side.  They  will  require  about  20 
minutes,  and  must  not  be  cooked  on  too  quick  a  fire.  When 
the  sausages  are  cooked,  arrange  them  evenly  in  the  centre 
of  a  hot  dish.  Have  some  sour  apples  cored  and  cut  across 
in  rings  half  an  inch  thick ;  fry  until  brown  in  the  pan  in 
which  the  sausages  have  been  cooked,  or  in  another  pan  with 
butter.  When  tender  and  slightly  browned,  dish  around  the 
sausages  and  serve  hot. 

SAUSAGES  WITH  PUREE  OF  POTATOES. 

SAUCISSES,   PUREE   DE   POMMES    DE   TERRE. 

Prick  the  sausages  and  lay  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  bake- 
dish.  Make  a  very  soft  puree  of  potatoes.  Pour  this  over 
the  sausages  ;  spread  a  beaten  egg  evenly  over  the  top,  and 
bake  about  30  minutes.  Serve  in  the  same  dish.  Recom- 
mended. 

HOME-MADE  BREAKFAST  SAUSAGE. 

2  pounds  of  lean  pork,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  teaspoon  of  powdered  sage  leaves,  1  saltspoon  of  black  pepper. 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  by  the  Enterprise  Chopper  if 
you  have  one.  Season.  Make  into  balls  or  cakes  and  fry 
brown  in  butter. 

SAUSAGE  ROLL. 

1  pound  sausage-meat,  Lard, 

Flour,  Baking-powder, 

Ice-water. 

Make  a  rich  Biscuit  dough  (see  receipt).  Put  the  sausage- 
meat  in  the  middle  of  the  paste,  which  you  have  rolled  out 
about  f-  of  an  inch  thick ;  spread  out  the  sausage-meat  to 


172  GOOD-LIVING. 

both  sides  ;  roll  the  paste  over  this  like  a  scroll ;  moisten  the 
flap  to  make  it  stick.  Lay  it  in  a  long,  narrow  bread-pan 
with  the  flap  uppermost,  and  bake  20  to  25  minutes.  Brush 
the  top  over  with  egg  or  milk  and  set  back  into  the  oven  to 
brown.  This  is  a  very  plain  and  old-fashioned  dish,  but  very 
savory. 

SAUSAGES   WITH  CABBAGE. 

SAUCISSES  AUX   CHOUX. 

Scald  the  cabbage  after  cutting  it  a  little  coarser  than 
coldslaw.  Throw  off  the  water.  Cover  again  with  boiling 
water,  and  boil  until  tender,  about  20  minutes.  Fry  the 
sausages,  meanwhile,  until  about  half  done  ;  then  drain  the 
cabbage  ;  turn  into  it  the  sausages  and  also  the  fat  that  has 
melted  out  of  them  ;  cover  and  stew  gently  where  it  will  not 
scorch  until  the  sausages  are  quite  cooked,  about  30  minutes. 
Dish  the  sausages  in  the  centre  and  make  a  border  of  the 
cabbage.     Serve. 

SOUSED  PIGS  FEET,  OR  PIG'S  PETTITOES. 

Take  4  young  and  tender  pigs'  feet  ;  cover  with  cold 
water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and  cook  gently  until  so  tender  that 
the  bones  may  be  drawn  out  easily.  Remove  the  feet 
and  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them.  When  cold,  lay  them  in 
a  crock.  When  the  liquor  in  which  the  feet  have  boiled  is 
cold,  skim  it,  and  to  I  quart  of  the  liquor  add  1  quart  of 
vinegar.  Put  it  into  a  china-lined  kettle  and  boil  a  few  min- 
utes with  some  whole  peppers,  cloves,  and  allspice,  and  pour 
it  boiling  over  the  feet.  There  should  be  liquid  enough  to 
cover  the  feet.  Cover  the  crock  ;  set  in  a  cool  place  and 
they  will  keep  for  some  time. 

FRIED  PIGS  FEET  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

PIEDS   DE   COCHON   FRITS. 

Take  out  some  of  the  feet  prepared  as  above,  removing 
from  them  all  extra  jelly  ;  roll  in  flour.     Have  some  hot  but- 


TOASTED  BACON.  1 73 

ter  in  a  very  hot  frying-pan  ;  lay  in  the  feet  and  fry  until 
brown  on  one  side ;  then  turn  with  a  cake-lifter  and  brown  the 
other  side.  There  should  be  a  crisp  brown  crust  formed  in 
this  way.  Remove  with  the  cake-turner  to  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve. 

BACON  IN  BATTER  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Roll  very  thin  slices  of  bacon  in  batter  and  fry  in  boiling 
lard.  The  bacon  should  be  previously  boiled  and  the  rind 
removed.  Serve  alone  or  with  fried  chicken.  See  receipt 
for  Fritter  Batter. 

FRIED  BACON  NO.  I. 

Having  removed  the  rind,  dip  thin  slices  of  boiled  bacon 
in  egg  and  bread-crumbs  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  Drain  dry 
and  serve. 

FRIED  BACON  NO.  II. 

Cut  raw  bacon  in  slices  \  of  an  inch  thick  and  4  inches 
long.  Cut  off  the  rind.  It  should  be  fried  only  until  trans- 
parent, not  crisp.  Tilt  the  pan  to  allow  the  fat  as  it  melts 
to  run  down,  so  that  the  bacon  shall  not  lie  in  it. 

TOASTED  BACON. 

Cut  the  slices  as  above  ;  lay  them  on  a  tin  pie-plate  and 
set  the  plate  on  the  gridiron  under  the  grate.  It  must  tilt 
slightly,  so  that  the  bacon  will  not  be  greasy.  Cook  until 
transparent  and  slightly  curled ;  or  it  may  be  crisped  if  de- 
sired. 


TIME-TABLE    FOR    COOKING    POULTRY 

AND    GAME. 


Hour.      Minutes. 


Turkey,  oven per  lb. 

Chicken,  i  year  old,  oven per  lb. 

Turkey-chick,  smothered  in  oven whole 

Grouse,  oven,  under-done whole 

Partridge,  oven,  well-done whole 

Rabbit  or  hare,  oven whole 

Saddle  of  venison,  oven,  very  under-done per  lb. 

Haunch  of  venison,  oven,  moderately  under-done,  per  lb. 

Turkey,  boiled  very  gently per  lb. 

Chicken,  boiled  very  gently per  lb. 

Fowl  (old),  simmered  very  gently per  lb. 

Fowl  (old),  braised  very  slowly per  lb. 

Turkey,  braised ...    per  lb. 


About 


About  15 
About  15 

About  25 
30  to  35 

35  to  45 
9 
10 

15 
15 

20  to  30 
20  to  30 
15  to  30 


POULTRY. 

TO  CLEAN  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

First  twist  up  a  piece  of  newspaper  and  light  it  on  the 
hearth;  while  burning,  pass  the  chickens,  held  by  the  neck  and 
feet,  backward  and  forward  over  the  blaze,  turning  until  all 
the  hairs  are  singed  off.  Cut  off  the  feet  just  above  the 
claws.  Hold  the  legs  in  boiling  water  for  I  minute  or  2,  and 
scrape  off  the  scales  with  a  knife.  The  French  people,  who 
know  better  than  any  other  nation  what  a  real  roast  chicken 
is,  always  cut  the  legs  as  described,  not  at  the  first,  joint  of  the 
drumstick  as  we  do.  The  chickens  dressed  in  this  manner 
present  a  much  better  appearance.  Cut  off  the  head  ;  slit 
the  skin  of  the  neck  down  the  back  to  near  the  shoulders ; 
push  it  off  toward  the  front,  and  cut  the  neck  off  quite  close 
to  the  shoulders.  This  leaves  a  good  flap  of  skin  to  fasten 
down  later.  Draw  down  the  skin  over  the  breast  and  take 
out  the  whole  craw  without  breaking  it.  Make  an  incision 
under  the  rump,  just  large  enough  to  let  in  the  fingers  to 
draw  it  easily.  Take  out  all  the  entrails,  being  most  careful 
not  to  break  the  gall-bag,  or  the  whole  chicken  will  have  a 
bitter,  disagreeable  taste,  rendering  it  practically  unfit  for 
eating.  Do  not  wash  or  soak  poultry  or  game  unless  you 
have  broken  the  gall-bag,  in  which  case  it  should  be  rinsed 
out  quickly  with  water  in  which  there  is  dissolved  some  bak- 
ing-soda, allowing  I  teaspoonful  to  the  quart.  Rinse  quickly 
and  dry  out  thoroughly  and  immediately.  It  is  a  great  mis- 
take to  soak  poultry  or  game.  It  may  be  well  washed  be- 
i75 


176  GOOD-LIVING. 

fore,  but  not  after,  being  drawn,  and  if  carefully  cleaned, 
will  require  only  to  be  wiped  out  with  a  wet  cloth,  then 
dried.  It  is  now  ready  for  use.  Cut  the  liver  from  the  gall- 
bag,  being  again  very  careful  with  this.  Cut  the  heart  open  ; 
remove  any  clotted  blood.  Draw  off  the  outer  covering  of 
the  gizzard,  throwing  away  the  inner  sand-bag  whole.  Wash 
thoroughly  and  set  aside  for  use.  The  above  directions 
apply  to  all  poultry  and  game,  with  the  exception  of  cutting 
off  the  feet.  In  some  of  the  smaller  game  the  feet  are  left 
on ;  in  other  cases  cut  off ;  the  directions  will  be  given  for 
such  in  its  place. 

TO   TRUSS  A  FOWL   WHEN  DRAWN. 

Cross  the  last  joint  of  the  wings  above  the  first  joint,  and 
run  1  skewer  through  them  and  the  body.  Near  the  rump, 
each  side  of  the  opening  made  for  drawing  the  fowl,  make  2 
incisions,  through  which,  by  pressing  back  the  legs  very 
gently  and  persistently,  the  ends  may  be  slipped.  Then 
sew  up  the  first  opening  with  soft  cotton.  Stuff  the  breast 
of  the  bird  through  the  neck  till  the  craw  is  filled  out  ;  turn 
under  the  flap  of  skin  and  skewer  it  to  the  back.  Or,  instead 
of  treating  the  legs  as  above,  tie  them  together  at  the  first 
joint  ;  press  them  up  against  the  body  and  run  1  skewer 
through  them  and  the  body. 

TO  ROAST  CHICKENS. 

POULETS    ROTIS. 

Select  a  pair  of  nice,  young,  but  full-grown  chickens  about 
I  year  old.  The  skin  should  be  smooth  and  tender ;  the 
breastbone  pliable  at  the  point.  After  being  cleaned  as 
directed,  make  a  dressing  of  1  cup  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  1 
tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  craw  only  ;  turn  the  skin 
of  the  neck  outside-in  (like  a  glove-finger)  as  far  as  it  will  go, 
and  fasten  it  on  the  under  side  with  a  skewer,  unless  you  pre- 


TO  ROAST  CHICKENS.  I?1/ 

fer  sewing  it,  in  which  case  do  not  forget  to  remove  the 
thread  before  serving  the  chicken.  Now  truss  it.  Put  a 
large  lump  of  butter  into  the  body  ;  sew  up  the  incision  made 
for  drawing.  Turn  the  chicken  breast  upward  with  the  rump 
toward  you.  Push  the  legs  up  under  the  skin,  cross  them  a 
little  ;  run  I  skewer  through  legs  and  body.  Turn  the  wings 
back.  Run  another  skewer  through  them  and  the  body  of 
the  chicken.  Tie  the  legs  together  just  below  the  drumsticks  ; 
twist  the  twine  around  the  skewer,  carry  it  up  the  back ; 
wrap  it  round  the  ends  of  the  wing-skewer  and  tie  firmly. 
Note. — In  dressing  capons,  etc.,  do  not  cross  the  legs.  Put 
4  slices  of  bacon  in  the  roasting-pan  ;  lay  the  chickens  on 
them  ;  rub  the  breasts  with  butter  and  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  in  the  pan,  adding  not  more  than  3  or  4tablespoonfuls 
of  boiling  water.  They  should  be  basted  almost  entirely 
with  melted  butter.  Allow  1 5  minutes  to  the  pound  ;  that 
is,  1  hour  for  a  pair  of  chickens  weighing  about  4  pounds 
each.  Baste  every  10  minutes;  15  minutes  before  they  are 
done,  baste  with  the  butter,  dredge  with  flour,  and  return  to 
the  oven  to  brown.  If  in  danger  of  browning  too  quickly, 
omit  the  flour  and  cover  with  I  sheet  or  2  of  thick  brown 
paper.  They  should  be  evenly  golden  brown,  if  properly 
roasted.  When  done,  the  flesh  will  feel  perfectly  firm  under 
pressure.  Do  not,  on  any  account,  pierce  with  a  fork  to 
ascertain  this ;  it  is  perfectly  possible  without  having  re- 
course to  such  means.  Never  pierce  cooked  meat  of  any 
sort ;  feel  it  with  the  flat  side  of  the  fork  or  knife,  and  in  a 
very  short  time  experience  will  teach  you.  White  meat, 
poultry,  game,  veal,  pork,  or  lamb  should  all  feel  quite  firm  ; 
all  dark  game  and  meats  should  feel  elastic  and  springy, 
more  or  less  according  to  the  degree  of  cooking  required. 
The  softer  they  are  the  less  they  are  cooked.  Which  means 
that  white  meats  must  be  well-done  all  through,  red  or 
dark  meats  under-done. 

Chickens  may  be  trussed,  if  preferred,  according  to  direc- 
tions To  Truss  a  Fowl.  When  done,  remove  the  strings  and 
skewers  and  place  the  chickens  upon  a  hot  dish. 


178  GOOD-LIVING. 

Sauce :  Put  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan  and  cover  them  with 
cold  water.  Simmer  gently  as  long  as  the  chickens  roast ; 
chop  the  giblets  fine ;  add  I  tablespoonful  of  flour  to  the  pan 
in  which  the  chickens  were  roasted  ;  stir  over  the  fire  for 
5  minutes ;  then  add  2  gills  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  giblets 
were  cooked  ;  stir  until  it  boils.  Add  the  giblets,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  Place  a  thick  bed  of  water- 
cresses  around  the  chickens  and  serve.  Omit  the  giblet  sauce 
and  use  the  plain  pan-gravy,  if  preferred. 

N.  B. — It  is  much  better  to  use  a  Dutch  oven,  if  possible, 
for  the  above.  The  time  required  is  about  the  same  as  for 
the  oven. 

SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

For  this  mode  of  cooking,  select  a  good-sized  broiler,  some- 
thing between  the  little  broiler  and  the  year-old  roasting- 
chicken.  Singe,  draw  (see  directions),  and  split  it  down  the 
back.  Wipe  off  with  first  a  wet,  then  a  dry  towel.  Spread 
it  open,  and  hold  it  in  shape  by  passing  a  skewer  across 
through  the  wings,  placing  the  liver  under  one  wing,  the 
gizzard  under  the  other.  Now  lay  it  in  a  roasting-pan  ;  put 
a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  cut  in  pieces,  2  or  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water  over  the  chicken,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  a  second  pan  that  will  fit 
closely  and  keep  in  all  the  steam.  Place  in  the  oven  and 
roast  for  about  I  hour  (more  or  less  according  to  the  size  of 
the  chicken).  When  half-done,  turn  the  chicken  over  and 
finish  on  the  second  side.  When  done,  it  should  be  gold- 
color,  not  brown.  If  you  like,  have  a  gridiron  heated 
very  hot,  and  when  the  chicken  is  done,  lay  it  breast  down- 
ward on  the  bars  before  the  fire  for  3  or  4  minutes,  until 
it  takes  the  marks  of  the  hot  bars.  Then  lay  it  on  a  hot 
dish  ;  spread  it  thickly  with  butter  ;  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley  ;  let  it  stand  about  2  minutes  in  a  warm  place  to  melt 
the  butter  ;  garnish  and  serve.  Chicken  treated  in  this  way 
will  be  found  to  have  all  the  sweetness  of  the  ordinary 
broiled  chicken  and,  at  the  same  time,  be  more  evenly  cooked 
and  juicy. 


BRAISED    CHICKEN  WITH  MACARONI.  1 79 

BROILED  CHICKEN. 

POULET    GRILLE   AUX    CRESSONS. 

For  this  purpose  select  the  smallest  chickens  that  come  to 
market.  Singe,  draw,  wipe  clean,  split,  and  spread,  keeping 
in  place  with  a  skewer  run  through  the  wings  and  under 
side.  Have  the  broiler  very  hot.  Broil  if  possible  under, 
not  over,  a  clear,  bright  fire.  A  wood  fire  is  the  best  by  far 
for  the  purpose.  Set  the  chicken  with  the  under,  or  bone 
side,  toward  the  hot  coals.  (If  over  the  fire,  turn  a  plate 
over  the  chicken.)  Put  a  pan  under  the  gridiron  to  catch 
the  juices.  Baste  with  melted  butter.  Broil  about  f-  of  the 
time  with  the  bone  side  toward  the  blaze.  When  nearly 
done,  turn  the  breast  toward  the  fire  and  broil  until  nicely 
browned  ;  be  very  careful  not  to  scorch.  The  time  will  vary 
according  to  the  size  of  the  chicken,  the  average  being  about 
30  minutes.  Serve  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and 
chopped  parsley  ;  garnish  with  cresses. 

BRAISED  CHICKEN  WITH  MACARONI. 

POULET   BRAISE   AU    MACARONI. 

Singe,  draw,  clean,  and  truss  the  chicken  as  directed  for 
roasting.  Melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan  ; 
when  hot,  lay  in  the  chicken  and  turn  until  golden  brown  on 
all  sides.  Then  proceed  as  for  Plain  Braise,  thickening 
the  gravy  with  a  roux  as  directed.  An  average-sized  fowl 
will  require  2  hours  ;  if  old,  longer  ;  if  young  and  tender,  1 
hour  and  15  minutes  to  1  hour  and  30  minutes.  Mean- 
while, boil  half  a  pound  of  macaroni  in  salted  boiling  water 
for  20  minutes.  When  tender,  drain  it  dry.  While  the 
macaroni  is  draining,  remove  the  chicken  from  the  pot  to  a 
hot  dish  ;  strain  the  sauce  ;  return  it  to  the  fire ;  put  the 
macaroni  into  it  and  simmer,  not  boil,  for  15  to  20  minutes, 
until  the  macaroni  has  become  thoroughly  moistened  with 
the  sauce.     Dish   the    macaroni  around  the  chicken  ;  pour 


l8o  GOOD-LIVING. 

some  of  the  remaining  sauce  over  it,  and  serve  the  rest  in  a 
boat.  The  addition  of  i  cup  of  tomatoes  to  the  sauce  when 
first  put  down  to  cook,  will  improve  both  its  color  and  flavor. 

BRAISED  CHICKEN  WITH  CARROTS. 

POULET    BRAISE   AUX    CAROTTES. 

Having  dressed  and  trussed  the  chicken  as  directed,  melt 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan  ;  when  it  is  hot, 
lay  in  the  chicken,  turning  on  all  sides  until  evenly  browned. 
Then  cook  it  as  directed  for  Plain  Braise,  adding  I  cup 
of  tomatoes,  4  large  carrots  cut  in  strips  and  fried  in  butter, 
also  a  roux  as  directed.  Serve  with  the  carrots  around  the 
chicken,  and  the  sauce  strained  and  served  in  a  boat. 

BRAISED  CHICKEN  WITH  JERUSALEM  ARTI- 
CHOKES. 

POULET   BRAISE   AUX   TOPINAMBOURS. 

Braise  the  chicken  as  directed  above,  thickening  the 
gravy  with  a  roux.  Make  a  puree  of  Jerusalem  arti- 
chokes thus  :  Select  about  2  quarts  of  the  largest  artichokes  ; 
wash  them  and  put  them  down  to  boil  in  a  pot  of  boiling 
water.  Boil  15  to  25  minutes,  according  to  size,  until  tender. 
Drain,  peel,  mash  through  a  colander ;  add  salt  and  pepper, 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  cream  to  moisten  the  puree 
to  the  consistency  of  soft  mashed  potatoes.  Failing  cream, 
use  the  sauce  of  the  chicken  to  moisten  it.  Return  to  the 
fire  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  ;  when  thoroughly  hot,  dish  it 
around  the  chicken  ;  strain  some  of  the  chicken-gravy  over  it, 
and  serve  the  rest  in  a  boat.  Or,  wash,  peel,  and  boil  the 
artichokes  as  directed  ;  strain  the  gravy  of  the  chicken  ;  put 
chicken,  artichokes,  and  gravy  back  into  the  pot  and  stew 
gently  until  the  artichokes  begin  to  melt  away.  This, 
system  is  better  with  a  fowl,  as  it  will  bear  the  prolonged 
cooking  and  be  improved  by  it.  In  this  case,  add  the  arti- 
chokes at  least  I  hour  before  the  fowl  should  be  finished. 
Delicious. 


SPANISH  CHICKEN.  l8l 

CHICKEN  LIVERS  SA  UTE. 

FOIES   DE   VOLAILLES    SAUTES. 

Put  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  ;  add 
I  onion  chopped  fine  ;  fry  until  gold  color  ;  add  the  livers 
whole  and  some  chopped  parsley.  Cook  until  firm,  shaking 
frequently.  Remove  the  livers  to  a  hot  dish.  Add  to  the 
saucepan  a  little  stock  and  a  pinch  of  flour  to  thicken  ;  stir 
and  boil  3  minutes.  Strain.  Add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  wine, 
and  some  fresh  chopped  parsley.  Pour  over  the  livers  and 
serve  with  diamond-shaped  Croutons  (see  receipt)  as 
garnish. 

SPANISH  CHICKEN 

POULET   A    L'ESPAGNOLE. 

2  chickens,  2  gills  of  sweet  oil, 

4  small  onions,  chopped,  I  clove  of  garlic, 

2  cans  of  tomatoes,  2  bay-leaves, 

Yz  lady-finger  pepper,  without  seeds,  Parsley, 

Sprig  of  thyme,  Salt  and  pepper, 

2  slices  of  bacon  or  ]/z  lb.  of  ham,  yz  sweet  Spanish  pepper. 

Singe,  clean  and  joint  the  chickens  as  for  fricassee.  Bone 
the  drumsticks.  If  old,  remove  the  skin.  Lay  the  pieces  in 
ice-water  and  I  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  for  I  hour.  Put  the 
oil  (or  sweet  drippings)  into  a  large  frying-pan.  Put  in  first 
the  largest  pieces  of  chicken,  and  then  the  smaller.  Put  the 
breasts  with  the  meat  downward.  Fry  until  a  delicate  gold 
color.  Remove  the  pieces  as  they  brown  to  a  large  stewpan. 
Add  the  onions,  etc.,  etc.,  the  bacon  or  ham  to  be  cut  in  nar- 
row strips.  Stew  for  I  hour,  if  the  chickens  are  very  young ; 
from  this  to  2  hours  and  30  minutes,  according  to  the  quality 
of  the  chickens.  They  must  become  perfectly  tender.  Re- 
move the  chickens  and  pieces  of  ham.  Dish  first  the  inferior 
pieces  and  finish  with  the  best.  Strain  the  sauce.  Return  it 
to  the  fire  and  boil  rapidly  for  15  minutes  longer.  If  not 
thick  enough,  add  a  very  little  corn-starch  blended  with  a  few 
drops  of  cold  water,  and  boil  2  minutes.     Pour  some  of  the 


1 82  GOOD-LIVING. 

sauce  over  the  chicken,  serve  the  rest  in  a  boat.  Decorate 
the  dish,  if  you  want  to  make  it  as  attractive  to  the  eye  as  it 
is  pleasing  to  the  palate,  with  diamond-shaped  Croutons  (see 
receipt),  mushrooms,  quarters  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  olives,  etc. 
These  latter  are  not  essential.  The  above  receipt  resembles 
very  much  the  Poulet  a  la  Marengo,  but  is  much  easier  to 
make. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE. 

2  gills  White  Sauce  (  see  receipt),         3  yolks  of  eggs. 

Salt,  3  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 

Pepper,  ]/2  lb.  of  cold  chicken. 

Boil  the  sauce  till  it  forms  a  thick  paste.  Cut  the  chicken 
very  fine  and  rub  it  through  a  sieve  ;  or  pound  it  in  a  mortar 
before  passing  through  the  sieve.  Mix  it  with  the  sauce  and 
seasoning.  Beat  in  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Heat  and  butter  I 
bake-dish  or  several  small  souffle-cases.  At  the  last  moment 
stir  the  whites  of  eggs  very  lightly  into  the  mixture  ;  fill 
the  dish  £  full  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven  8  to  12  minutes. 
The  flavor  of  the  above  may  be  varied  by  passing  mush- 
rooms through  the  sieve  with  the  chicken,  observing  the 
same  proportions.  This  dish  must  be  eaten  immediately,  as 
standing  spoils  it. 

FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN.     I. 

FRICASSEE   DE    POULET    I. 

2  chickens,  Juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
I  clove  of  garlic,  1  quart  of  cold  water, 
Pepper  and  salt,                         Bunch  of  parsley, 

1  onion,  Small  piece  of  pork, 

1  teaspoon  of  butter,  1  gill  of  flour, 

3  tablespoons  of  cream,  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

2  carrots,  White  wine  and  mushrooms  may  be  added. 

Cut  the  chickens,  when  cleaned,  in  pieces.  Use  the  finer 
parts  for  the  fricassee  ;  the  coarser  parts  for  the  sauce.  Put 
the  coarser  pieces  into  a  china-lined  saucepan  with  the  water, 
spices,  onion,  parsley,  pork  etc.  Simmer  30  minutes,  then 
add  the  finer  pieces.  Let  them  boil  slowly  until  done,  from 
I  to  2  hours  according  to  the  quality  of  the  chickens.     They 


CHICKEN   STEW   WITH    VEGETABLES.  1 83 

must  cook  very  slowly.  When  very  tender,  take  out  the 
finer  pieces ;  keep  them  warm  while  you  prepare  the  sauce. 
Strain  the  gravy ;  skim.  Return  it  to  the  fire.  Blend 
together  the  butter  and  flour  over  the  fire  in  another  sauce- 
pan ;  do  not  let  them  brown.  When  well  blended,  add  some 
of  the  boiling  gravy  and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  then  add 
the  rest  of  the  gravy.  Stir  and  boil  4  or  5  minutes.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  quickly  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  up 
with  the  cream.  Add  the  lemon-juice.  Do  not  boil  again 
after  the  eggs  are  added  or  it  will  curdle.  Add  wine  to  taste 
and  mushrooms,  if  liked.  Serve  in  a  border  of  rice  or  mashed 
potatoes  with  sauce  poured  over  the  chicken. 

A  DAINTY  CHICKEN  FRICASSEE.     II 

FRICASSEE   DE   POULET   II. 

Fricassee  your  chicken  (see  receipt).  To  the  rich  creamy 
sauce,  add  just  enough  curry-powder,  rubbed  smooth,  to 
flavor  the  sauce  slightly  and  to  give  it  a  pretty  yellow  tint. 
Have  some  Boiled  Rice  (see  receipt)  ;  when  it  is  dry,  add  to  it 
just  enough  stewed,  strained  tomato-juice  to  make  it  a  pretty 
light-red.  Make  a  wall  of  this  around  the  edge  of  the  dish  ; 
in  the  centre  place  the  pieces  of  chicken,  the  coarser  parts 
below,  the  best  on  top  ;  pour  over  this  the  yellow  sauce. 
Sprinkle  a  little  finely-chopped  parsley  over ;  stick  little 
sprigs  of  fresh  green  parsley  at  even  distances  around  be- 
tween the  yellow  and  pink ;  garnish  the  edge  of  the  dish 
with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters,  and  you  have,  with 
very  little  trouble,  a  dish  equally  pleasing  to  both  palate 
and  eye. 

CHICKEN  STEW  WITH  VEGETABLES. 

2  fowl,  trussed  whole,  xyi  pints  of  cold  water, 

2  ounces  of  butter,  fy  tablespoon  of  flour, 
I  pint  of  sweet  corn,  1  pint  of  lima  beans, 

3  slices  of  bacon,  cut  in  strips,  Salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 

Having  cleaned  and  trussed  the  fowl  as  directed  (see 
receipts),  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  cold  water.     When  it 


184  GOOD-LIVING. 

simmers,  add  the  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together  until 
smooth ;  the  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  the  limas,  bacon,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Let  all  stew  slowly  together 
until  done.  If  the  fowl  are  tough,  however,  they  will  need  2 
hours  or  even  2  hours  and  30  minutes,  in  which  case  the 
vegetables  should  not  be  added  until  about  1  hour  before  the 
fowl  are  to  be  done.  If  young  chickens,  they  will  not  fequire 
more  than  1  hour  to  I  hour  and  30  minutes,  according  to 
size.  Serve  the  fowl  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  with  the 
vegetables  around,  and  the  sauce  in  the  boat. 

CHICKEN  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS. 

1  chicken,  1  large  onion,  cut  fine, 

3  pints  of  cold  water,  1  carrot,  cut  fine, 

Butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  )£  turnip,  "      " 

Cut  up  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee.  Put  it  into  astewpan 
with  cold  water,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Put  the  vege- 
tables into  a  frying-pan,  with  I  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
fry  until  brown,  but  not  burned.  Add  a  few  tablespoonfuls 
of  boiling  water ;  cover  and  stew  until  tender.  Then  mash 
them  through  a  strainer  into  the  saucepan  containing  the 
chicken.  Simmer  very  gently  until  the  chicken  is  tender. 
An  old  fowl  will  require  fully  2  hours  or  more  ;  a  young 
chicken  about  1  hour.  About  12  minutes  before  serving, 
bring  to  a  brisk  boil,  and  drop  in  the  Dumplings  (see  receipt). 
Cover  the  saucepan  ;  boil  rapidly  10  or  12  minutes.  Remove 
the  dumplings,  and  keep  them  warm  while  you  dish  the 
chicken.  Pour  the  gravy  over  ;  place  the  dumplings  around 
the  dish,  and  serve.  N.  B. — Take  care  that  the  sauce  does 
not  scorch  while  the  dumplings  are  cooking,  as  this  happens 
very  easily. 

CHICKEN  CURR  Y. 

POULET   AU   KARL 

I  chicken  of  about  3  pounds,  2  large  onions,  cut  fine, 

3  tomatoes,  or  1  cup  of  canned,  $£  cup  of  butter, 

1  cup  of  new  milk,  Pinch  of  cayenne, 

About  1  teaspoon  of  curry-powder. 

Fry  the  onions  in  butter  until  brown,  but  do  not  burn. 
Add   the   chicken,    cut   up  as   for  fricassee,    and  the  other 


FILLETS  OF  CHICKEN.  1 85 

ingredients,  reserving  the  curry.  Cover  tightly,  and  simmer 
gently  1  hour,  stirring  occasionally.  Add  the  milk.  Bring 
to  a  boil.  Mix  the  curry  and  one  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch 
with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  it  into  the  boiling  sauce. 
When  it  has  boiled  two  minutes,  remove  and  serve  in  a  Rice 
Border  (see  receipt).  Note. — The  time  allowed  is  for  a  young 
chicken.  The  quantity  of  curry-powder  used  must  depend 
upon  its  strength. 

CHICKEN  SA  UTE   WITH  PEAS. 

POULET   SAUTE   AUX    PETITS    POIS. 

Pieces  of  cold  chicken,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Pinch  of  ground  mace, 

I  dessertspoon  of  flour,  ■    2  gills  of  stock, 

I  pint  of  fresh  peas,  I  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  neat  dice,  not  too  small.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  lay  in  the  pieces  of  chicken ;  sprinkle 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  mace ;  toss  the  chicken 
until  of  a  nice  light  brown.  Dredge  in  the  flour ;  stir  it 
around  ;  then  add  the  stock  and  peas,  and  stew  until  the 
latter  are  tender — about  20  minutes,  if  young.  Add  the 
sugar  and  more  pepper  and  salt  if  necessary.  Place  the 
chicken  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  the  peas  around,  and  the 
gravy  over  all.     Garnish  with  large  Croutons  (see  receipt). 

FIILETS  OF  CHICKEN. 

FILETS    DE    POULETS    SAUTES. 

I  chicken,  Flour, 

Salt  and  pepper,  4  tablespoons  of  butter, 

3  gills  of  milk,  Pinch  of  mustard, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  Puree  of  peas  or  potatoes  for  garnishing. 

Remove  the  white  meat  from  the  breastbone,  1  solid  piece 
from  each  side.  Bone  the  legs  and  thighs,  making  I  piece  of 
each ;  that  is,  4  fillets  to  each  chicken.  Remove  the  skin. 
Flatten  with  the  potato-masher.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Dredge  with  flour.  Melt  in  the  frying-pan  \  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  for  each  fillet.     When  hot,  lay  in  the 


1 86  GOOD-LI  VING. 

fillets,  and  fry  until  light  brown,  for  about  20  minutes,  turning 
often.  Remove  to  a  hot  dish.  Add  I  to  2  tablespoonfuls 
more  of  butter  to  what  remains  in  the  pan.  When  melted, 
stir  in  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  continue  to  stir  until 
slightly  browned.  Then  add  slowly  the  boiling  milk,  stirring 
smooth.  Season.  Boil  1  or  2  minutes,  stirring  always. 
Have  ready  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  a  Puree  of  Peas  (see 
receipt).  Set  the  fillets  around  neatly  ;  strain  the  sauce  over 
the  chicken  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  SA  UTE  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

POULET  SAUTE  AUX  CHAMPIGNONS. 

Prepare  exactly  as  Chicken  Saute  with  Peas,  substitut- 
ing fresh  or  canned  mushrooms  for  peas.  If  canned  mush- 
rooms are  used,  they  should  cook  only  just  long  enough  to 
heat  thoroughly ;  therefore  do  not  add  them  until  a  very  few 
minutes  before  the  chicken  is  ready  to  serve. 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE  NO.  II. 

I  pint  of  cold  chicken,  chopped  very  fine,  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  pint  of  new  milk, 

1  "  of  chopped  parsley,  Pepper  and  salt, 

I  "  of  flour,  1  gill  of  stale  bread-crumbs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  the  flour.  Mix  very 
smooth.  Stir  the  boiling  milk  by  degrees  into  the  flour  and 
butter ;  stir  until  it  boils  2  minutes  ;  add  whit©  crumbs  ;  stir 
and  boil  I  minute.  Remove  from  the  fire  ;  add  seasonings, 
chicken,  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  together 
rapidly  until  evenly  mixed.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and  stir  them  carefully  into  the  mixture,  raising  the  latter 
always  from  the  bottom  with  a  spoon ;  then  give  I  or  2 
brisk  turns  with  the  spoon  ;  have  a  greased  bake-dish  heated  ; 
pour  the  mixture  into  it,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  to  25 
minutes.  Serve  immediately  or  it  will  fall.  N.  B. — The 
chicken  must  be  chopped  as  fine  as  powder,  or  pounded  and 
rubbed  through  a  sieve. 


BEIGNETS  OF  CHICKEN  A    LA   TARTAR E.  1 87 

CHICKEN  EN  MA  TELOTE. 

MATELOTE   DE   POULET. 

1  chicken,  1  carrot,  cut  in  dice, 

1  quart  of  stock,  1  onion,     "    "     " 

1  chicken  liver,  rubbed  fine,  1  parsnip,  "    "     " 

1  tablespoon  of  capers,  Salt  and  pepper, 

%  pound  of  mushrooms,  Butter  and  flour. 

Joint  the  chicken  as  for  fricassee.  Rub  the  pieces  with 
butter,  and  roll  them  in  flour.  Put  them  in  a  pan  in  the 
oven  to  brown.  Meanwhile  fry  the  vegetables  in  butter  for 
20  minutes.  When  the  chicken  is  brown,  in  about  20 
minutes,  put  it  and  the  vegetables  into  a  stewpan  with  the 
broth  or  same  quantity  of  water.  Add  the  liver,  capers,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Cook  gently  for  f-  of  an  hour.  Then  add  the 
mushrooms,  cut  not  too  fine.  Simmer  15  minutes  longer. 
If  the  gravy  is  not  thick  enough,  after  removing  the  chicken 
to  a  hot  dish,  bring  it  to  a  brisk  boil ;  stir  in  about  1  tea- 
spoon of  corn-starch,  rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  water ; 
stir  and  boil  2  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Serve 
with  a  border  of  macaroni,  rice,  or  mashed  potato.  The 
above  receipt  is  for  a  tender  young  chicken. 

BEIGNETS  OF  CHICKEN  A  LA    TARTARE. 

BEIGNETS   DE   POULET   A   LA   TARTARE. 

Pieces  of  cold  chicken,  Lard,  pepper,  and  salt, 

Fritter  batter,  Tartare  Sauce. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  neat,  even  pieces,  about  1x2  inches. 
Have  the  lard  deep  enough  in  the  pan  to  cook  the  beignets 
without  allowing  them  to  touch  the  bottom.  Dip  the  pieces 
of  chicken  into  Fritter  Batter  (see  receipt).  Note. — The 
batter  should  be  very  thick.  Drop  them  into  the  boiling 
lard,  and  as  they  become  pale  golden-yellow,  skim  them  out 
and  lay  on  a  piece  of  paper  in  mouth  of  the  oven  until  dry. 
Serve  in  a  pyramid  on  a  cut  paper  or  folded  napkin.  Gar- 
nish with  a  bunch  of  Fried  Parsley  (see  receipt),  and  serve 


1 88  GOOD-LIVING. 

with  a  Tartare  Sauce  (see  receipt).  The  beignets  should 
puff  like  dough-nuts.  A  very  good  addition  to  the  above  is 
half  the  quantity  of  ham  cut  in  strips  and  fried  with  the 
chicken. 

MARYLAND  CHICKEN  WITH  CORN  DODGERS. 

2  young  chickens,  Cream, 

Lard,  Pepper, 

Parsley,  Salt, 

Cold  corn-meal  mush,  Flour. 

The  chickens  for  this  must  be  young  and  tender.  When 
cleaned,  joint  them  as  for  fricassee.  Have  the  lard  quite 
deep  in  the  frying-pan  and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Having  made 
sure  of  this  important  point,  wipe  the  chicken  and  drop  the 
pieces  into  the  boiling  lard.  Fry  until  well  browned  and 
cooked  through,  from  15  to  25  minutes,  according  to  the  size 
of  the  pieces.  The  thick  pieces  of  breast,  etc.,  will  take 
longer  than  the  others.  As  the  pieces  are  cooked,  remove 
to  a  hot  dish.  When  all  are  done,  pour  off  the  top  of  the 
lard,  leaving  in  the  pan  any  gravy  of  the  chicken  that  may 
remain.  Return  the  pan  to  the  fire  and  pour  in  about  2  gills 
or  more  of  cream.  Dredge  in  a  little  flour  ;  stir  ;  bring  it  to 
a  boil,  and  let  it  boil  3  minutes.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Pour  this  over  the  chicken.  Sprinkle  over  the  top 
some  finely-chopped  parsley.  Have  ready  firm,  cold  corn- 
meal  mush.  Cut  it  into  slices  fully  \  inch  thick  ;  cut  these 
into  even,  diamond-shaped  pieces  ;  dip  them  lightly  in 
egg,  cover  with  flour,  and  fry  in  butter.  Garnish  the  edge 
of  the  platter  with  these  corn  dodgers,  and  serve.  This 
receipt  came  from  the  land  of  Maryland  chicken. 

PEBRE   (SPANISH). 

Pieces  of  cold  chicken,  Sweet  oil, 

2  cloves,  Lemon-juice, 

Salt,  Pinch  of  saffron. 

Cut  in  pieces  the  chicken  which  has  been  previously  boiled 
with  salt  and  whole  peppers.     Bring  the  sweet  oil  to  a  boil. 


CHICKEN  A    LA    REINE.  1 89 

Drop  in  the  pieces  of  chicken.  Brown  slightly.  Add  the 
seasonings.  Moisten  with  some  of  the  broth  in  which  the 
chicken  has  been  boiled.  Cover.  Boil  up  once  and  serve. 
Garnish  with  large  Croutons  (see  receipt). 

AS  ADO  (SPANISH  FRICASSEE). 

I  chicken,  whole,  1  clove  of  garlic, 

Salt  and  cayenne,  1  slice  of  ham, 

Pinch  of  saffron,  Corn-starch. 

Put  the  chicken,  when  it  is  cleaned  and  trussed,  into  a  pot 
of  boiling  water.  Skim  as  it  boils.  The  water  should  cover 
the  chicken,  but  no  more.  Add  the  other  ingredients. 
When  tender,  which  will  depend  entirely  upon  the  age  of 
the  chicken,  say  after  1  to  2  hours'  boiling,  take  out  the 
chicken,  put  it  into  a  colander  over  hot  water,  and  let  the 
sauce  boil  down  until  of  a  good  strength,  which  will  take  from 
15  to  30  minutes.  Strain.  Return  to  the  fire,  and  when 
boiling,  add  corn-starch  rubbed  up  in  cold  water  until  the 
sauce  is  as  thick  as  cream.  Dish  the  chicken  and  the  ham  ; 
pour  some  of  the  sauce  over  it  and  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce- 
boat. 

CHICKEN  A  I A  REINE. 

POULET   A    LA    REINE. 

2  chickens,  Salt  and  pepper, 

^  pound  of  salt  pork,  cut  in  pieces,  Flour, 

1  carrot,  cut  fine,  2  quarts  of  broth  or  water, 

1  onion         ' '  Bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

Clean  and  truss  young  chickens  as  for  roasting.  Dredge 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  flour.  Lay  half  of  the  pork  in  the 
bottom  of  a  stewpan  which  will  fit  in  the  oven.  Put  the 
carrot  and  onion  with  the  pork,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
beginning  to  brown.  Then  put  in  the  chickens  ;  cover  with 
the  -remainder  of  the  pork.  Cover  the  saucepan  air-tight, 
and  set  in  the  oven  for  20  minutes.  Then  add  the  boiling 
broth  or  water  and  bunch  of  herbs.     Dredge  with  flour. 


I90  GOOD-LIVING. 

Cover  again  and  return  to  the  oven.  After  1  hour  turn  the 
chickens  over.  Cook  in  all  about  2  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Dish  the  chickens  and  keep  warm  while  you  boil  down  the 
gravy  briskly.  Skim,  strain,  and  pour  over  the  chickens. 
Serve.  N.  B. — Roasting  fowl  can  be  used  for  the  above 
receipt. 

DEVILLED  CHICKEN  EN  CAISSES. 

POULET   DIABLE   EN   CAISSES. 

1  pint  of  cold  chicken  or  turkey,  minced,  2  tablespoons  of  fine  bread-crumbs, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  Cayenne  and  salt, 

X  pint  of  cream,  %  nutmeg,  grated, 

I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  3  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  frying-pan  ;  add  the  bread-crumbs, 
cream,  chicken,  and  seasonings.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Serve 
in  paper  cases,  casseroles,  or  shells.  Fill  the  cases.  Press 
the  yolks  of  the  eggs  through  a  sieve  with  a  potato-masher. 
Cover  the  surface  of  the  chicken  with  this  powdered  egg, 
and  serve.  Or,  chop  the  eggs  fine  and  add  to  the  mixture, 
covering  the  surface  in  this  case  with  bread-crumbs  and  bits 
of  butter  ;  set  in  the  oven  until  slightly  browned,  and  serve. 
Chopped  mushrooms  may  be  added  to  the  above. 

Cold  veal  or  lamb  may  be  substituted  for  the  chicken  in 
the  same  proportions. 

CHICKEN  WITH  RICE  AND  TOMA  TO  SA  UCE. 

FRICASSEE   DE   POULET,    SAUCE   TOMATE. 

Singe,  draw,  clean  a  4-lb.  chicken  or  fowl ;  cut  it  in  joints 
as  for  fricassee.  Put  into  a  stewpan  ;  half  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  simmer.  Add  \  cup  of  washed  rice,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Boil  gently  until  the  chicken  is  tender,  \\  or  2\ 
hours,  according  to  age.  Place  the  chicken  in  the  centre  of 
a  dish  with  the  rice  around.  Make  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce 
(see  receipt)  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Macaroni  may  be 
substituted  for  the  rice. 


CHICKEN  PA  TJE  JELLIED.  I9I 

CHICKEN  PATE  JELLIED. 

PAIN   DE   VOLAILLE. 

%  cold  boiled  chicken,  chopped  very  fine,  Salt  pork, 

4  sausages,  chopped  very  fine,  3  eggs, 

Grated  bread-crumbs,  Nutmeg, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Lemon-juice, 
1  gill  of  wine,  white  or  red. 

Remove  the  chicken  from  the  bone  ;  remove  the  skins  of  the 
sausages,  and  chop  both  as  fine  as  paste.  Use  an  Enterprise 
Chopper  if  you  have  it.  The  bulk  of  bread-crumbs  should 
equal  that  of  the  chicken,  as  should  also  the  bulk  of  sausage 
meat,  that  is,  about  \  of  each.  Mix  all  well  together ;  add 
the  seasonings  to  taste.  Meanwhile  boil  in  a  saucepan  the 
bones  of  the  chicken,  covered  with  boiling  water,  2  cloves  of 
garlic,  3  cloves,  and  6  allspice.  When  it  has  boiled  long 
enough  to  be  well  flavored,  about  30  minutes,  use  some  of 
the  water  to  moisten  the  pate.  Lastly,  add  the  wine  and 
eggs  ;  mix  thoroughly.  Line  a  tin  mould  with  straight  sides 
with  thin  slices  of  salt  pork,  covering  every  part  of  the  sur- 
face. Pour  in  the  mixture  ;  cover  also  with  thin  slices  of 
pork.  Tie  over  the  top'  a  well-buttered  paper,  and  put  in  a 
very  moderate  oven  for  about  1  hour,  or  a  little  longer,  until 
set  perfectly  firm.  The  oven  must  neither  be  too  quick,  or 
the  loaf  will  crack,  nor  to  slow,  or  the  loaf  will  be  dried  out. 
When  done,  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  turn  out  of  the 
mould,  remove  the  slices  of  pork,  and  serve  surrounded  with 
jelly.  Or,  having  rinsed  the  same  mould  in  cold  water,  fill  it 
to  the  depth  of  a  \  inch  with  jelly  (use  jelly  as  directed 
for  Jellied  Tongue).  When  this  is  firm,  set  in  the  pate ;  fill 
the  remaining  space  between  the  pate  and  sides  of  the  mould 
with  the  liquid  jelly,  and  set  away  to  harden.  Pour  some  of 
the  same  jelly  into  a  shallow  dish  and  set  away  also.  When 
ready  to  serve,  turn  the  jellied  pate  out  carefully,  crumb  the 
the  jelly  in  the  shallow  dish  with  a  fork,  arrange  it  tastefully 
around  the  base  of  the  pate,  and  serve.  Decorate  and  gar- 
nish to  taste.     Recommended. 


I92  GOOD-LIVING. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES  NO.  I. 

CROQUETTES   DE   VOLAILLE   I.. 

2  chickens,  boiled,  1  nutmeg,  grated, 

1  pair  of  brains,  boiled,  Salt, 

r  cup  of  chopped  suet,  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  chopped, 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  1  small  tablespoon  of  grated  onion, 

Cream,  or  same  quantity  of  White  Sauce,  Black  pepper  and  cayenne. 

Chop  or  grind  the  meat  as  fine  as  possible  (use  Enterprise 
Chopper  if  you  have  it) ;  mix  all  well  together  and  add 
enough  cream  or  thick  White  Sauce  (see  receipt)  to  make  it 
quite  soft.  The  white  sauce  is  best,  as  it  hardens  when  cold, 
enabling  you  to  mould  the  croquettes  much  more  easily. 
When  subjected  to  the  heat  of  frying  it  becomes  soft  and 
creamy  again.  After  making  the  croquettes  a  few  times  you 
will  ascertain  by  experience  exactly  how  the  mixture  should 
feel  to  the  touch.  To  mould  the  croquettes  into  shape  when 
the  mixture  is  cold,  have  on  the  table  by  you  a  plate  of 
flour,  a  saucer  of  beaten  egg,  and  a  deep  bowl  of  sifted 
bread-crumbs.  Flour  your  hands  well;  take  a  tablespoonful 
of  the  meat,  roll  it  between  the  palms  of  your  hands,  and 
shape  evenly  and  neatly.  Do  not  make  them  too  narrow  for 
their  length  or  they  may  break  in  frying  :  say  1  x2|-  inches. 
Dip  them  first  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  crumbs,  keeping  them 
well  shaped,  covering  with  just  as  much  crumb  as  they  will 
take  up.  Then  place  on  a  flat'  dish,  separate  from  one 
another  that  the  air  may  reach  all  parts.  Set  away  in  the 
ice-box  for  at  least  1  hour.  Use  only  1  hand  for  the 
bread-crumbs,  if  possible,  and  1  for  the  eggs,  or  you  will 
soon  find  yourself  with  thimbles  of  dipping  on  all  10 
fingers.  This  amount  of  croquette-meat  will  make  about  24 
medium-sized  croquettes.  When  ready  to  cook  them,  have 
deep  lard  boiling  in  a  kettle.  Use  a  frying-basket.  Lay  the 
croquettes  in  the  basket  and  proceed  as  directed  in  General 
Directions  for  Frying.  When  golden  brown,  skim  out  and 
lay  on  a  clean  piece  of  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  to 
dry.     When  dry,   dish    tastefully  on  a  cut  paper  or  folded 


JELLIED   CHICKEN.  1 93 

napkin.     Garnish  with  a  large  bunch  of  Fried  Parsley  (see 
receipt). 

N.  B. — Boil  the  brains  previously  as  directed  (see  receipt). 
The  croquettes  should  be  as  soft  as  thick  cream  in  the  inside 
when  served,  with  a  delicate  gold-colored  covering  outside. 

PLAIN  CHICKEN  CROQUETTES  NO.  II. 

CROQUETTES   DE   VOLAILLE  II. 

}(  pounds  of  cold  chicken,  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley, 

yi  pound  of  mashed  potatoes,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

2  tablespoons  of  cream,  1  egg, 

Pepper,  salt,  Nutmeg. 

Mix  well,  form  into  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs  (see 
Chicken  Croquettes),  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  (see  General 
Directions  for  Frying).     Excellent. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN. 

CHAUD-FROID    DE   VOLAILLE. 

Boil  a  fowl  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it ;  add  to  it  1 
clove  of  garlic,  4  cloves,  6  allspice,  \  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  1 
bay-leaf.  Boil  until  the  meat  is  ready  to  fall  from  the 
bones.  Pick  off  the  meat ;  chop  very  fine  (use  Enterprise 
Chopper  if  you  have  it),  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Rinse  out  a  smooth  mould  in  cold  water.  Lay  in  the  bottom 
some  slices  of  cold  hard-boiled  egg,  then  a  layer  of  the 
chopped  chicken,  another  layer  of  egg,  another  of  chicken, 
and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  filled.  Boil  down  the  broth  of 
the  chicken  to  about  3  gills  ;  strain  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  cayenne  if  necessary  ;  pour  over  the  chicken.  Set  away 
in  a  cold  place  for  several  hours  until  firm,  then  turn  it  out 
and  serve  with  salad.  This  is  a  good  dish  for  tea.  Or,  when 
the  liquor  is  ready  to  pour  over  the  chicken,  let  it  cool,  and 
add  to  about  2  gills  of  it  the  same  quantity  of  rich  Mayon- 
naise Sauce  (see  receipt).  Fill  the  mould  with  this  mixed 
with  chicken  ;  set  away  to  harden  ;  turn  out  and  serve  with 
a  salad. 
13 


194  GOOD-LIVING. 

DEVILLED  CHICKEN. 

POULET   A   LA   DIABLE. 

The  chicken  must  be  boiled  tender  in  salted  water.     When 
cold,  cut  in  even  pieces  ;  dip  into  melted  butter  and  broil. 
Sauce  for  same : 

I  teaspoon  of  made  mustard,  2  tablespoons  of  Worcestershire  sauce, 

3  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 

Bring  to  a  boil  together  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Any 
pieces  of  cold  chicken  may  be  used  for  this  dish,  but  must 
not  be  cut  too  small. 

CHICKEN  JELL  Y. 

Having  made  a  good  Chicken  Consomme  (see  receipt), 
let  it  stand  until  cold  ;  remove  all  fat,  and  to  I  quart  of  this 
add: 

The  pared  rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  pinch  of  cayenne, 

2  even  teaspoons  of  salt,  Whites  and  crushed  shells  of  2  eggs. 

Beat  the  whites  sufficiently  to  mix  them,  but  not  to  a 
froth ;  mix  all  well  together ;  heat  it  slowly ;  let  it  boil 
briskly  for  io  minutes;  set  on  the  hearth  5  minutes  to 
settle,  then  pour  it  through  a  jelly-bag.  Do  not  squeeze  the 
bag.  Rinse  a  bowl  or  mould  in  cold  water  ;  pour  the  jelly 
in,  and  set  away  to  harden.  If  the  consomme  has  not 
jellied  when  cold  before  clearing  it,  it  should  be  boiled  down 
at  least  £  ;  or  else,  melt  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  consomme, 
allowing  1  box  of  gelatine  to  3  pints  of  jelly.  Stir  it  into 
the  boiling  jelly  with  the  whites  of  eggs.  Strain  as  above. 
This  will  insure  a  firm  jelly. 

CHICKEN  WITH  TOMATOES. 

POULET   FARCI   AUX   TOMATES. 

Having  cleaned  a  fine,  young,  roasting-chicken,  fill  it  with 
a  Ham  Force-meat   (see  receipts).     Truss,  and  lay  it  in  a 


CHICKEN  A   LA    TERRAPIN.  1 95 

roasting-pan  with  6  tablespoons  of  sweet  oil,  pinch  of  salt, 
and  juice  of  I  lemon.  Baste  frequently,  allowing  about  15 
minutes  to  the  pound  in  a  moderate  oven  (see  directions 
for  Roast  Chicken).  Have  ready  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see 
receipt).  Dish  the  chicken  ;  pour  the  tomato  sauce  into  the 
pan  with  the  oil,  etc.,  that  remains  from  the  roasting ;  boil 
down  rapidly  for  3  or  4  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  chicken. 
Spanish  receipt. 

BOILED  CHICKEN  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE. 

POULET   AU    BLANC. 

Singe,  clean,  and  truss  a  fowl  whole,  as  directed  for  roast- 
ing. Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  cold  water  to  cover.  Add 
the  same  seasoning  as  for  Fricassee  of  Chicken,  and  finish 
the  sauce  exactly  according  to  same  receipt.  The  fowl  will 
require  from  1  hour  and  30  minutes  to  3  hours,  according  to 
age  and  toughness.  The  older  it  is,  the  more  gently  it  should 
be  simmered.  Pour  some  of  the  sauce  over  the  fowl.  Serve 
the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat. 

CHICKEN  WITH  TARRAGON  SAUCE. 

POULET   A   L'ESTRAGON. 

Prepare  exactly  as  directed  above,  adding  to  the  sauce  a 
few  small  sprigs  of  fresh  tarragon  about  10  minutes  before 
serving.  Pour  some  of  the  sauce  over  the  fowl,  and  serve 
the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat. 

CHICKEN  A  LA    TERRAPIN 

Cut  cold  boiled  chicken  in  1  inch  dice.  Make  a  Terrapin 
Sauce  (see  receipt).  Put  the  chicken  in  the  sauce,  and  set 
away  for  at  least  6  hours,  if  possible.  When  required,  warm 
the  chicken  in  a  bowl  over  a  vessel  of  boiling  water  (  bain- 
marie).  It  will  take  at  least  30  minutes  to  heat,  and  must 
not  boil. 


I96  GOOD-LIVING. 

COCK-A-LEEKIE. 

POULE   AU    RIZ. 

I  fowl,  1  cup  of  rice, 

6  leeks,  Flour, 

1  bay-leaf,  Butter, 

Salt,  ]/z  inch  piece  of  red-pepper  pod. 

Draw,  clean,  and  truss  a  fowl  as  for  roasting  (see  direc- 
tions). Put  it  into  an  iron  pot.  Cover  with  cold  water. 
Add  the  leeks,  pepper-pod  (without  seeds),  bay-leaf,  and  salt. 
Cover.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then  set  where  it  will  simmer  gently 
for  1  hour.  Then  add  the  rice,  well  washed,  and  boil  stead- 
ily, but  gently,  for  1  hour  longer.  Dish  the  fowl.  Strain 
out  the  rice  and  leeks  and  heap  around  the  fowl.  Return 
the  broth  to  the  fire.  Now  blend  together  over  the  fire 
about  1  tablespoonful  each  of  flour  and  butter;  do  not 
brown.  Stir  in  enough  of  the  boiling  chicken-broth  to 
make  the  sauce  as  thick  as  rich  cream.  Pour  this  over  the 
fowl.  Garnish  and  serve.  Should  the  fowl  be  very  tough, 
allow  15  to  30  minutes  longer  cooking  before  adding  the  rice. 

TO  ROAST  A   TURKEY. 

DINDE   ROTIE. 

Clean  and  prepare  the  turkey  as  directed,  trussing  it  ac- 
cording to  Directions  for  Trussing  a  Fowl.  A  young  hen- 
turkey  is  best  for  roasting.  Before  trussing  it,  fill  the  craw 
with  any  of  the  Dressings  (see  receipts)  you  may  fancy ; 
chestnut  stuffing  is  highly  recommended,  if  obtainable.  It 
is  generally  advisable  not  to  stuff  the  body  unless  the  dress- 
ing selected  is  very  moist  and  not  too  high-flavored,  which 
would  take  away  from  the  delicate  quality  of  the  bird  itself. 
However,  that  is  a  matter  of  taste ;  but  it  is  urged  that  the 
body  should  not  be  filled  with  any  dry  stuffing,  or  the  juices 
of  the  bird  will  be  absorbed  by  it  and  the  meat  greatly 
injured  in  quality.  It  is  recommended  to  put  into  the  body 
of  the  turkey  its  own  liver  and  a  large  spoonful  of  butter. 


TURKE  Y-CHICK.  1 97 

After  the  turkey  is  trussed,  dredge  thoroughly  with  flour, 
rubbing  it  in  with  the  hand.  Set  it  in  the  roasting-pan ; 
put  2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  about  4  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  boiling  water  in  the  pan  ;  set  the  pan  in  the  oven  (un- 
less you  are  equipped  for  roasting  before  the  fire  in  the  good, 
old-fashioned  way).  The  oven  must  be  moderate.  A  second 
pan  should  be  placed  over  the  turkey  to  prevent  the  breast- 
bone from  browning  and  perhaps  burning,  before  the  turkey 
is  thoroughly  done.  Baste  very  frequently,  and  watch  with 
a  most  solicitous  and  careful  eye  that  the  fire  is  not 
hot  enough  to  burn,  or  cool  enough  to  dry  out  the 
turkey.  One  weighing,  before  cleaning,  about  8  pounds, 
should  be  allowed  I  hour  and  30  to  45  minutes,  or  rather 
more  than  10  minutes  per  pound.  A  very  large  turkey,  not 
less  than  3  hours.  When  nearly  done,  remove  the  top  pan 
and  baste  again,  until  well-browned  all  over.  Then  take  the 
turkey  from  the  pan  ;  set  the  pan  on  the  top  of  the  range ; 
add  a  small  pinch  of  flour,  a  little  boiling  water,  and  stir ; 
add  the  giblets  and  liver  (previously  boiled),  the  former 
chopped,  the  latter  mashed.  Stir  2  or  3  minutes ;  add  salt 
and  pepper  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Garnish  the  turkey 
with  cresses  or  parsley. 

N.B.— If  your  turkey  is  not  young  and  tender,  do  not 
attempt  to  roast  it.  In  that  case,  cook  it  according  to  re- 
ceipt for  Plain  Braise,  Turkey  En  Daube  or  Boiled  Turkey 
(see  receipts). 

TURKEY-CHICK. 

DINDONNEAU. 

This  is  a  most  dainty  and  delicate  dish.  The  turkeys 
should  weigh  from  2  to  3,  or  at  most  3^  lbs.  They  are  then 
in  perfection.  Split  one  down  the  back,  after  having 
cleaned  it  as  directed  (see  Directions  for  Cleaning  Poul- 
try). Spread  it  open,  exactly  as  a  chicken  for  broiling. 
Rub  it  all  over  with  butter ;  lay  it  in  a  roasting-pan  ;  put  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  in   small   bits  over  it,   and   about 


I98  GOOD-LIVING. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  in  the  pan.  Cover  it  with 
another  pan  that  will  fit  it  air-tight,  to  keep  in  the  steam. 
Place  this  in  a  moderately-quick  oven.  Baste  it  occasion- 
ally, closing  again  tightly  and  quickly.  It  will  take  from  45 
to  60  minutes.  When  cooked,  dish  it ;  pour  the  butter  from 
the  pan  over  it ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  garnish  with 
cresses  or  parsley,  and  serve  either  with  Cucumber  Salad, 
Celery  Mayonnaise,  or  with  a  mayonnaise  of  tomatoes,  espe- 
cially if  the  latter  are  from  the  hot-house,  or  Primeurs.  If 
served  as  an  entree,  instead  of  taking  the  place  of  game 
or  roast  at  dinner,  it  is  excellent  with  Chestnut  Sauce  (see 
receipt),  but  is  best  as  first  indicated.  In  Europe  this  is 
considered  a  great  delicacy,  but  is  not  as  yet  sufficiently 
known  or  appreciated  in  this  country. 

TURKE  Y  EN  DA  UBE. 

DINDE    EN   DAUBE. 

Large  hen-turkey,  not  too  young,  Slice  of  salt  pork, 

Bunch  of  parsley,  Half  calf's  foot, 

Bunch  of  thyme,  2  onions,  sliced, 

Bunch  of  celery  leaves,  2  carrots,      " 

Chervil,  10  cloves, 

Bouquet  of  sweet  herbs,  1  clove  of  garlic, 

6  gills  of  broth,  2  tablespoons  of  brandy, 

I  bay-leaf,  1  pint  of  white  wine, 
Pepper  and  salt. 

Clean  and  dress  your  turkey,  which  should  not  be  too 
young,  or  it  will  go  to  pieces  before  being  properly  cooked. 
If  liked,  lard  the  breast  with  strips  of  salt  pork,  salt,  pepper, 
parsley,  chervil,  and  thyme  ;  but  this  may  be  omitted.  Fill 
the  craw  with  one  of  the  various  Dressings  (see  receipts). 
Sew  up  and  truss  as  directed.  Lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  deep, 
large  iron  pot  slices  of  fat  pork,  the  calf's  foot,  salt,  pepper, 
onions,  carrots,  herbs,  etc.  On  this  bed,  lay  the  turkey. 
Pour  over  it  the  broth,  brandy,  and  white  wine.  Cover. 
Wring  out  a  clean  cloth  in  hot  water,  and  twist  it  around 
the  lid  to  prevent  the  escape  of  steam.     Simmer  very  slowly 


ROAST   TURKEY    WITH  TRUFFLES.  1 99 

for  fully  5  hours,  or  more,  if  old,  turning  it  once  with  great 
care  when  about  half  cooked.  When  done,  lift  the  turkey 
out  upon  a  hot  dish  ;  skim  and  strain  the  sauce ;  pour  some 
over  the  turkey,  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat.  When  set 
away  to  cool,  put  the  turkey  in  a  large  bowl ;  pour  all  of  its 
sauce  around,  and  it  will  become  jellied.  This,  although 
apparently  an  elaborate  dish,  is,  in  fact,  perfectly  practicable, 
and  the  result  is,  a  Christmas  turkey  fit  for  a  king. 

BOILED   TURKEY. 

DINDE,    SAUCE    BLANCHE. 

Select  by  preference  a  hen-turkey.  Draw  it  carefully  (see 
directions).  Rinse  it  out  with  cold  water  and  a  pinch  of 
baking-soda.  Wipe  dry.  Truss  it  (see  directions).  Stuff 
the  craw  with  a  dressing  of  oysters  (see  Force-meats),  with 
celery  cut  in  £-inch  pieces  added  to  the  force-meat.  Rub 
the  bird  all  over  with  lemon-juice,  to  whiten  the  skin,  and 
lay  it  in  boiling  water ;  or,  better  still,  flour  a  cloth  and  tie 
the  turkey  in  it.  Boil  very  slowly,  allowing  1 5  to  20  minutes 
to  the  pound.  The  older  and  tougher  the  turkey,  the  more 
gently  it  must  cook,  and  the  longer ;  then  it  will  not  be 
stringy.  Serve  with  Oyster  and  Celery  Sauce  (see  receipts). 
Miss  Leslie  says :  "  With  a  turkey  (boiled)  there  should  be 
on  table  a  ham  or  a  smoked  tongue."  This  is  an  old- 
fashioned  custom,  and  one  which  we  cannot  improve  upon. 
If  not  boiled  in  a  cloth,  the  broth  from  the  turkey  will  make 
an  excellent  soup  next  day,  boiled  down  with  rice,  vege- 
tables, and  seasonings. 

A  dressing  of  Sausage  Force-meat  may  be  substituted  for 
the  above,  if  preferred. 

ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  TRUFFLES. 

DINDE   TRUFFEE. 

For  this,  select  a  fresh,  young  hen-turkey.  Singe  and 
draw  as  directed.     Cut  1  pound  of  lean  ham  into  dice ;  set 


200  GOOD-LIVING. 

it  over  the  fire  in  a  saucepan  ;  when  hot,  add  2  pounds  of  fresh 
truffles  (the  very  best  to  be  had),  \  of  a  nutmeg,  \  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  white  pepper,  and  I  bay-leaf ;  stir  over  the  fire 
for  15  minutes,  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  put  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture  into  the  craw  of  the  turkey  ; 
put  the  remainder  into  the  body  of  the  turkey.  Sew  it  up. 
Truss,  and  hang  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place  for  about  5  days  in 
winter ;  in  warmer  weather,  2  days.  Roast  as  directed  for 
Roast  Turkey,  and  serve  with  Truffle  or  Madeira  Sauce. 

ROAST  TURKEY  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

DINDE   ROTIE   AUX   CHAMPIGNONS. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Roast  Turkey  with  Truffles,  (see 
above),  substituting  mushrooms. 

ROAST  CAPON. 

CHAPON  ROTI. 

Proceed  exactly  as  directed  for  Roast  Chicken  (see  re- 
ceipt) ;  serving  on  a  bed  of  water-cresses,  with  the  plain 
pan-gravy  strained  in  a  boat. 

CAPON  WITH  TRUFFLES. 

CHAPON   TRUFFE. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Roast  Turkey  with  Truffles  (see 
receipt). 

GUINEA-FOWL. 

PINTADE    ROTIE. 

This  is  a  bird  which  seems  to  be  but  little  known  or  appre- 
ciated in  this  country,  whereas  "  Pintade  Rotie  "  is  almost 
as  familiar  on  the  Continental  menu  as  is  "  Poulet  Roti," 
and  very  certainly  appears  often  under  the  guise  of  other 
game.  A  young,  tender  guinea-fowl  is  not  to  be  despised. 
The  marks  by  which  the  younger  ones  are  known  are  that 


ROAST  GOOSE.  201 

the  breast  bone  is  pliant  at  the  tip,  the  wings  very  tender, 
and  the  legs  smooth,  free  from  feathers,  and  of  a  pale-yellow 
color.  When  well  selected  and  well  cooked,  they  are  not 
very  inferior  to  pheasants  and  partridges.  They  may  be 
roasted  (see  Roast  Chicken)  ;  but  it  is  recommended  that 
they  be  cooked  according  to  either  .of  the  following  receipts. 

BROILED  GUINEA-FOWL. 

PINTADE     GRILLEE. 

If  very  young  and  tender,  singe,  draw,  split,  and  broil  as 
directed  for  Broiled  Chicken.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  water- 
cresses,  with  a  salad. 

BRAISED  GUINEA-FOWL. 

PINTADE    BRAISEE. 

Proceed  exactly  as  directed  for  a  Plain  Braise,  using  2 
carrots  and  2  onions  sliced  and  fried  brown,  and  the  gravy 
thickened  with  a  roux  of  browned  butter  and  flour.  They 
should  be  trussed  as  for  roasting,  and  not  stuffed.  Cook 
them  very  slowly  and  gently  for  about  I  hour  and  15  min- 
utes, if  young  and  tender ;  longer,  if  old  and  tough.  When 
done,  remove  them  to  a  hot  dish  ;  place  the  carrots  around 
the  birds  ;  strain  the  gravy  ;  pour  some  of  it  over  the  birds, 
and  serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Or,  omit  the  thickening,  and  do  not  serve  the  carrots,  but 
garnish  with  water-cresses  and  serve  as  a  roast  with  a  salad. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

OIE   ROTIE. 

This  is  a  most  savory  dish,  provided  your  goose  be  a  ten- 
der one  ;  therefore  it  is  essential  to  make  sure  of  this  fact 
before  beginning.  This  is  readily  ascertained  by  one  who 
has  the  habit  of  drawing  poultry.  In  selecting  it,  see  that 
the  end  of  the  breast  bone  yields  easily  to  pressure  ;  that 


202  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  wings  are  supple  and  very  tender  at  the  pinion  ;  that  the 
legs  are  smooth  and  yellow  and  free  from  feathers.  A 
"  green  goose  "  is  most  desirable  for  roasting,  if  you  can  get 
it.  If  there  is  any  doubt  about  the  tenderness  of  your 
goose,  do  not  attempt  to  roast  it ;  braise  it  according  to  the 
receipt  for  Plain  Braise,,  and  you  can  serve  it  with  all  the 
appearance  of  being  roasted,  and  at  the  same  time  ensure 
its  being  good  eating. 

Draw,  singe,  and  wipe  out  the  bird,  but  do  not  wash  it  if 
it  can  be  avoided  ;  have  it  as  sweet  and  clean  as  possible. 
If  not  perfectly  sweet,  you  may  rinse  it  out  quickly  with  a 
quart  of  cold  water  in  which  is  dissolved  I  teaspoonful  of 
baking-soda.  Make  a  dressing.  Unless  you  prefer  some 
other,  the  following  is  a  good  one  : 

4  apples,  peeled  and  cored,  yz  teaspoon  of  thyme, 

4  onions,  sliced,  Mashed  potato, 

4  leaves  of  sage,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Boil  the  apples,  onions,  and  herbs  with  sufficient  water  to 
cover  them  ;  when  soft,  rub  all  through  a  sieve  ;  add  enough 
mashed  potato  to  make  it  sufficiently  firm  for  a  dressing,  but 
not  dry  enough  to  stick  to  the  hands.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  stuff  the  bird,  both  craw  and  body.  Sew  it 
up.  Truss  it  (see  directions).  Tie  and  skewer  it  firmly. 
Put  it  into  a  roasting-pan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter  or 
sweet  drippings  and  about  3  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water. 
Rub  the  breast  of  the  goose  well  with  butter ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Baste  very  frequently,  every  10  or  15 
minutes,  and  each  time  thoroughly.  Roast  about  1  hour 
and  30  minutes.  Watch  the  oven,  that  your  goose  may  not 
cook  too  quickly  or  get  over-done.  If  in  danger  of  brown- 
ing too  much,  cover  it  with  a  second  pan  and  turn  some  of 
the  heat  off  from  the  oven.  If  the  goose  is  not  at  the  young- 
est, or  "  green,"  stage,  you  must  cover  it  from  the  beginning, 
roast  it  longer,  and  with  more  moderate  fire,  basting  very 
often  and  browning  at  the  last.  The  time  given  allows  for 
a  good-sized  bird. 


SALMI  OF    TAME  DUCK.  203 

Sauce  :  Boil  the  giblets  apart ;  chop  the  gizzards  and  mash 
the  liver.  When  the  goose  is  cooked,  remove  it  from  the 
pan  to  a  hot  dish.  Remove  strings  and  skewers.  Set  the 
pan  on  the  top  of  the  range  ;  add  a  little  boiling  water;  stir; 
blend  a  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  water ; 
stir  it  into  the  boiling  gravy ;  add  the  giblets,  etc.,  salt,  pep- 
per, and  boil  3  minutes.  Serve  in  a  sauce-boat.  Garnish 
the  goose  with  water-cresses,  and  serve  with  Apple  Sauce 
(see  receipt). 

TAME     DUCK. 

CANARDS   R6TIS. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Roast  Goose  (see  receipt),  stuffing 
with  sage  and  onion  dressing.  The  same  remarks  apply  as 
to  their  tenderness ;  if  you  are  not  perfectly  certain  of  it,  do 
not  risk  roasting,  but  prepare  them  according  to  receipt  for 
Plain  Braise.  If  roasted,  allow  1  hour  for  large  ones;  baste 
frequently.  They  require  to  be  cooked  much  longer  than 
wild  ducks.  Serve  with  giblet  sauce,  if  liked ;  otherwise, 
with  the  plain  pan-gravy  in  a  sauce-boat.  Serve  with  green 
peas,  spinach,  or  a  salad.  Apple  sauce  or  currant  jelly  may 
be  handed  at  the  same  time.  A  very  savory  accompaniment 
is  Onion  or  Soubise  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

SALMI  OF  TAME  DUCK. 

SALMI   DE   CANARD. 

Cut  cold  duck  into  neat  pieces.  Put  the  giblets  into  a 
saucepan  with  the  amount  of  hot  water  you  will  require  for 
the  sauce,  more  or  less  according  to  the  quantity  of  duck. 
Add  to  it  2  onions,  2  sprigs  of  parsley,  both  chopped  fine, 
3  cloves,  1  leaf  of  sage,  pepper  and  salt.  Cover,  and  let  the 
sauce  simmer  for  about  1  hour,  until  well  flavored.  Add  the 
pieces  of  duck ;  let  them  stew  slowly  for  2  hours,  adding  a 
little  more  boiling  water  if  necessary.  Just  before  it  is  done, 
add  1  gill  of  port  wine  and  a  little  lemon-juice.  Blend  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  water ;  stir  it  into 


204  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  boiling  sauce,  and  boil  2  minutes ;  or  thicken  with  a 
Brown  Roux  (see  receipt).  Arrange  the  duck  neatly  on  a 
hot  dish  ;  pour  the  gravy  over,  and  garnish  the  edge  with 
large,  diamond-shaped  Croutons  (see  receipt).  Or  make  a 
Rice  Border  (see  receipt),  and  serve  with  the  stew  in  the 
centre. 

The  quantity  of  corn-starch  required  depends  upon  the 
amount  of  sauce  to  be  thickened,  1  large  teaspoonful  being 
sufficient  to  thicken  I  pint  of  sauce.  A  few  handfuls  of 
fresh  green  peas  boiled  first,  may  be  added  to  the  stew  10  or 
15  minutes  before  it  is  served  ;  or  add  a  handful  of  stoned 
olives. 

DUCK  SAUTE   WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

CANARD    SAUTE   AUX    PETITS    POIS. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Chicken  Saut6  with  Green  Peas 
(see  receipt). 

TAME  DUCK  BRAISED. 

CANARD    BRAISE. 

Select  a  large  Muscovy  duck  ;  clean,  truss,  and  stuff  with 
potato  and  onions  (see  Roast  Goose).  Cook  according  to 
receipt  for  Plain  Braise.     Recommended. 


GAME. 
WILD  DUCKS. 

CANARDS    SAUVAGES. 

These  should  always  be  plain  roasted  the  first  day,  and 
under  no  circumstances  should  they  be  stuffed.  Of  course 
canvas-backs  stand  at  the  head  of  the  list,  but  red-heads 
are  undoubtedly  second.  It  sometimes  happens  that  the 
more  ordinary  kinds  of  ducks,  though  they  may  be  of  the 
tenderest,  have  a  most  unpleasantly  strong  flavor.  It  is  said 
that  a  parboiled  onion  placed  in  the  body  of  one  of  this 
kind,  will  frequently  absorb  the  strong,  disagreeable  quality 
and  make  the  duck  very  acceptable,  if  its  skin  is  not  eaten ; 
this  also  contributes  to  its  rankness.  In  case  the  onion  sys- 
tem is  tried,  the  reader  is  warned  that  it  must  be  removed 
most  carefully  as  soon  as  the  duck  is  taken  from  the  fire. 
Have  at  hand  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and  the  instant  the 
onion  is  taken  out  of  the  duck,  plunge  it  under  the  water,  and 
take  it  away  as  quickly  as  possible,  for  in  its  turn  it  becomes 
most  offensive. 

If  the  ducks  are  of  the  choicest  kind,  leave  the  heads  on, 
and  when  plucked,  singed,  drawn,  truss  them  with  the  head 
under  the  wing.  Tie  the  legs  together  to  keep  them  from 
spreading,  and  cut  the  wings  off  close  to  the  body ;  a  duck- 
wing  never  being  served,  and  often  proving  a  sad  stumbling- 
block  to  the  carver.  In  cleaning  ducks,  avoid  washing  them  ; 
simply  wipe  them  out  with  a  wet  cloth  and  dry  them  imme- 
diately. The  fire  should  be  in  good  order,  and  the  oven 
205 


2o6  GOOD-LIVING. 

fiercely  hot.  Put  the  ducks  both  (if  of  the  same  size)  in  the 
roasting-pan,  unless  you  are  fortunate  enough  to  be  able  to 
roast  them  before  the  fire  ;  put  a  large  lump  of  butter  in  the 
pan,  with  2  or  3  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Rub  the 
breasts  of  the  ducks  with  butter.  Now  put  the  ducks  in  the 
oven  ;  if  your  fire  is  right,  they  will  be  done  to  a  turn  in  15 
minutes,  if  of  medium  size.  Baste  frequently.  As  a  rule 
there  is  often  I  duck  of  the  pair  a  little  larger  than  the  other  ; 
in  this  case,  the  larger  duck  must  be  put  in  the  pan  in  the 
oven  alone,  first,  for  3  to  5  minutes,  according  to  the  differ- 
ence in  size;  then  add  in  the  smaller  duck  and  cook  15 
minutes.  This  time  is  exact  (if  the  fire  is  right)  for  ducks 
the  size  of  canvas-backs  and  red-heads.  If  much  larger, 
allow  20  minutes  or  more.  The  epicure  is  much  shocked  if 
wild  duck  is  cooked  beyond  the  point  of  the  blood  running 
red  when  pierced  with  a  fork  in  carving.  Be  sure  the  plates 
on  which  they  are  to  be  served  are  put  to  heat  long  enough 
beforehand  to  get  them  very  hot.  Better  far  let  the  guest 
wait  a  minute  or  two  for  the  ducks  than  to  allow  the  ducks 
to  wait  for  the  guest.  Carve  the  ducks  in  thick  slabs,  not  in 
thin,  wafery  slices,  as  is  too  often  seen.  The  perfect  way  of 
serving  ducks  (when  they  are  the  dish  par  excellence,  as,  for 
instance,  at  a  game  supper),  is  to  allow  half  a  duck  to  each 
guest,  and  serve  it  on  a  hot-water  plate.  In  the  land  of 
ducks  the  dish  is  frequently  garnished  with  small  croquettes 
of  fried  hominy.  The  usual  mode  of  serving  is  to  hand  at 
the  same  time  currant  jelly  and  dressed  celery. 

SALMI  OF  WILD  DUCK  WITH  OLIVES. 

SALMI   DE   CANARD   AUX   OLIVES. 

The  next  day,  take  the  legs,  wings,  and  all  the  good  parts 
of  the  ducks  that  remain;  cut  them  into  neatly-shaped  pieces 
and  make  thereof  a  tasty  brown  stew ;  that  is,  rub  together 
over  the  fire  until  brown  1  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
flour ;  add  by  degrees  3^  gills  of  good  broth,  and  stir  until 
smooth.     Boil  until  sufficiently  thick  ;  season  with  salt,  pep- 


WOODCOCK  AND   SNIPE.  207 

per;  lay  in  the  pieces  of  duck,  and  set  on  one  side  to  warm, 
and  stew  gently  for  30  to  45  minutes ;  add  wine  to  taste  and 
a  few  olives  cut  from  the  stones.  Garnish  with  diamond- 
shaped  Croutons  (see  receipt). 

WILD  DUCK    WITH  JELL  Y  SA  UCE. 

Cut  pieces  of  cold  wild  duck  evenly ;  warm  them  slowly 
in  a  sauce  made  of  I  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  \  a 
tumbler  of  currant  jelly,  and  1  gill  of  port  wine. 

ROAST  GROUSE. 

Prepare  exactly  the  same  as  partridge,  allowing  less  time 
for  the  cooking  ;  being  dark-fleshed  game,  they  should  be 
served  underdone.  If  the  oven  is  just  right,  they  will 
require  about  25  minutes,  or  a  little  more  according  to  size. 
When  sufficiently  cooked,  the  meat  should  feel  quite  elastic 
under  pressure  of  the  fork.  They  must  never  be  thoroughly 
cooked  through.  Serve  the  sauce  from  the  pan  in  a  sauce- 
boat.  Dish  the  grouse  on  slices  of  toast  moistened  with 
broth  and  buttered  ;  garnish  with  water-cresses,  or  with 
Fried  Breadcrumbs  (see  receipt)  and  parsley.  Serve  with  a 
salad. 

BROILED  GROUSE. 

If  the  grouse  are  young  and  tender,  broil  according  to 
either  receipt  given  for  Broiled  Partridge,  cooking  10  or  15 
minutes  less.     Garnish  with  cresses  and  serve  with  a  salad. 

WOODCOCK  AND  SNIPE. 

BECASSES   ET   BECASSINES   SAUTEES. 

Pluck  and  clean,  but  never  draw  either  of  these  birds  if 
you  are  preparing  them  for  epicures ;  to  have  the  birds 
served  without  the  trail  would  be  quite  shocking,  in  their 
judgment.  The  heads  should  also  remain  on.  Pluck  the 
neck  and  skin  the  head  carefully.     Twist  the  neck  around 


208  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  run  the  beak  through  legs  and  body ;  this  rounds  out 
the  breast.  Have  a  deep  pan  with  lard  enough  to  com- 
pletely immerse  the  birds.  When  you  are  certain  that  it  is 
boiling  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying),  lay  the  birds  in 
and  leave  them  from  3  to  5  minutes,  according  to  their  size ; 
for  these  same  epicures  decree  that  the  birds  must  be  served 
very  underdone.  Prepare  a  slice  of  toast  for  each  moistened 
with  butter  and  broth.  Place  a  bird  on  each  slice  of  toast 
and  serve  with  a  salad. 

WOODCOCK  AND  SNIPE  ROASTED  NO.  I. 

BECASSES   ET   BECASSINES   ROTIES   I. 

Do  not  draw  these  birds ;  otherwise  proceed  exactly  as 
for  roasting  quail.  Allow  about  ^  the  length  of  time  to 
cook,  as  they  should  be  served  very  underdone.  Each  bird 
should  be  rolled,  when  trussed,  in  a  thin  slice  of  fat  pork, 
not  bacon  ;  lay  each  one  in  the  roasting-pan  on  a  piece  of 
toast,  which  piece  of  toast,  absorbing  all  the  juices  that  fall 
from  the  bird  in  cooking,  must  be  served  under  it.  Remove 
the  pork.  Garnish  with  water-cresses  ;  serve  with  a  salad. 
Hand  at  the  same  time  currant  jelly.  This  latter  is  a  matter 
of  taste. 

ROASTED   WOODCOCK  NO.   II. 

BECASSE   ROTIE   II. 

Carefully  pluck ;  skin  the  neck  and  head.  Truss  with  the 
head  under  the  wing.  Bend  the  legs  back  at  the  first  joint, 
pressing  the  feet  up  against  the  thigh.  Do  not  draw  them. 
Tie  a  strip  of  pork  around  each  ;  run  a  small  iron  skewer 
through  the  birds  and  tie  it  to  the  spit,  if  you  can  roast  be- 
fore the  fire,  otherwise  put  them  on  a  roasting-pan  in  the 
oven.  Have  a  fiercely  hot  fire.  Place  the  roasting-pan,  with 
slices  of  buttered  toast,  beneath  to  catch  whatever  falls  from 
the  birds  in  cooking.  Baste  with  melted  butter.  Roast 
from  12  to  15  minutes;  then  sprinkle  the  birds  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  serve  on  the  toast.  Garnish  with  cresses.  Serve 
with  a  salad. 


PARTRIDGES  BROILED  NO  I.  20O. 

Snipe  may  be  treated  in  the  same  manner,  as  also  all  small 
birds,  such  as  larks,  etc,  etc. 

REED-BIRDS. 

ORTOLANS. 

As  a  rule,  never  draw  these  birds  ;  cook  them  with  the  trail 
in.  Simply  pick,  wash,  clean,  and  quickly  wipe  them  ;  truss 
neatly,  and  lay  in  boiling  lard  for  3  to  5  minutes.  Serve 
very  hot  on  toast.     Serve  at  the  same  time  a  salad. 

REED-BIRDS    BROILED. 

ORTOLANS   GRILLES. 

This  is  an  exception  to  the  above  rule,  for  the  birds  must 
be  drawn.  When  clean,  split ;  place  them  in  the  folds  of  a 
clean  towel,  and,  with  the  rolling-pin,  crush  the  bones  quite 
flat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper ;  spread  on  a  very  hot 
greased  broiler.  Broil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  the 
inner  side  toward  the  fire ;  in  a  minute  or  two,  turn.  Con- 
tinue to  turn  until  browned  outside.  The  fire  must  be  very 
quick  that  the  outside  may  sear  without  cooking  the  inside 
too  much.  They  will  not  require  more  than  4  or  5  minutes, 
as  reed-birds  are  always  served  under-done.  Serve  on  soft, 
buttered  toast ;  put  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  melted  butter 
on  each.     Garnish  with  cresses  and  serve  with  a  salad. 

PLOVER. 

PLUVIER. 

Prepare  according  to  any  of  the  receipts  for  reed-birds  or 
snipe,  leaving  the  trail  in,  and  serving  on  toast.  Like  all  dark- 
fleshed  game,  they  should  be  served  very  under-done. 

PARTRIDGES  BROILED  NO.  I. 

PERDRIX   GRILLEES   I. 

Pluck  and  draw  ;  split,  and  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a  wet 
cloth  ;  do  not  wash  them  if  it  can  be  avoided.     Spread  open 
14 


2 1 0  GOOD-LIVING. 

like  a  broiled  chicken,  keeping  in  place  by  a  skewer  run 
through  the  wings  and  body.  Have  a  clear,  hot  fire.  Heat 
the  gridiron  first.  Grease  it  well.  Lay  the  bird  on  the  grid- 
iron with  the  inner  (or  bone)  side  toward  the  coals.  Broil 
the  bird  under,  not  over  the  fire,  if  possible.  Now  rub  the 
breast  all  over  with  butter  ;  place  a  pan  under  the  gridiron  to 
receive  all  the  butter  and  juice  that  may  drop  in  the  cooking. 
Turn  the  bird  from  time  to  time,  leaving  it  at  least  twice  as 
long  with  the  inner  side  toward  the  blaze.  Each  time  you 
turn  it,  brush  it  with  melted  butter.  It  will  require  to  cook 
about  25  minutes.  Being  white-fleshed  game,  partridges  re- 
quire to  be  thoroughly  cooked  through,  and,  as  their  one 
fault  is  dryness,  they  must  be  constantly  basted  and  carefully 
watched,  that  they  do  not  scorch  or  get  over-done.  Have 
ready  slices  of  buttered  toast.  Trim  the  crust  from  the  edges 
and  moisten  with  the  butter  from  the  pan.  Lay  the  bird  on 
the  toast ;  put  a  little  melted  butter  on  the  breast ;  sprinkle 
with  pepper  and  salt.     Serve  with  a  salad. 

PARTRIDGES    BROILED    NO.    II. 

PERDRIX   GRILLEES   II. 

Split  and  prepare  as  above ;  lay  in  a  tin  pan  with  slices  of 
pork  over  the  breasts  ;  put  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pepper 
and  salt,  and  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water  in  the 
pan.  Cover  air-tight  to  keep  the  steam  in.  Set  in  the  oven. 
Baste  frequently.  They  will  require  20  to  30  minutes  ac- 
cording to  the  heat  of  the  oven.  When  sufficiently  cooked, 
the  flesh  should  feel  quite  firm  under  pressure  of  the  fork. 
Do  not  pierce  the  skin  with  the  fork  or  the  juices  will  escape  ; 
simply  press  with  the  flat  side  of  it,  and  you  will  easily  ascer- 
tain when  it  is  cooked.  The  softer  the  flesh  is,  the  more 
under-done.  Garnish  with  cresses  and  serve  as  directed  in 
preceding  receipt.  This  last  way  of  cooking  partridges  has 
the  advantage  of  making  them  very  juicy.  If  you  wish  to 
give  the  appearance  to  the  bird  of  having  been  broiled,  heat 
the  gridiron  very  hot,  and,  when  you  remove  the  partridge 


PARTRIDGES  A  UX  CHOUX.  211 

from  the  pan,  lay  it  with  the  breast  against  the  bars  for  a  few 
seconds.  The  hot  gridiron  will  mark  the  breast  in  lines,  as  if 
it  had  been  broiled.     Serve  with  salad. 

ROAST   PARTRIDGES. 

PERDRIX    ROTIES. 

Pluck,  draw,  clean,  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a  wet  cloth, 
but  do  not  wash,  if  it  can  be  avoided.  Truss,  passing  a 
wooden  skewer  through  the  thighs,  another  through  the 
wings.  Fasten  a  slice  of  pork  over  the  breast  of  each.  Put 
into  a  baking-pan  with  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  2  of  boil- 
ing water  or  I  gill  of  white  wine.  Baste  frequently,  and 
roast  about  40  minutes.  The  oven  must  not  be  too  hot.  Re- 
move strings  and  skewers ;  stand  the  partridges  on  buttered 
toast  on  a  hot  dish.  Add  to  the  pan  2  gills  of  good  con- 
somme or  broth ;  boil  up,  strain,  and  pour  over  the  birds. 
Garnish  with  water-cresses  and  serve  with  a  salad. 

PARTRIDGES    JELLIED. 

PERDRIX   EN    GELEE. 
See  Quail  en  Compote. 

PARTRIDGES    AUX    CHOUX. 

PERDRIX   AUX   CHOUX. 

3  partridges,  yi  pound  of  bacon, 

2  smoked  sausages,  1  cabbage, 

Salt  pork,  Consomme  or  broth, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Tie  together : 

I  carrot,  cut  in  half,  1  onion, 

4  cloves,  stuck  in  the  onion,  Small  bunch  of  parsley, 

3  sprigs  of  thyme,  1  clove  of  garlic. 

Clean  and  truss  the  partridges  as  directed ;  put  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  the  bacon  cut  in  slices,  the  sausages,  carrot, 
onion,  herbs,  and   seasonings.     Cover   the   partridges  with 


212  GOOD-LIVING. 

slices  of  salt  pork.  Scald  the  cabbage  in  boiling  water  on  the 
fire  for  15  minutes  ;  put  it  for  a  moment  in  cold  water;  then 
drain  it  perfectly  dry.  Lay  it  on  top  of  the  partridges  and 
cover  again  with  strips  of  salt  pork.  Pour  over  sufficient 
broth  or  consomm£  to  cover  all.  Simmer  very  gently  for  2 
hours,  closely  covered.  Lift  out  the  cabbage ;  drain  a  mo- 
ment and  lay  in  the  bottom  of  a  hot  dish.  Upon  this  place 
the  partridges ;  arrange  around  them  the  sausages  and  bacon. 
Let  the  gravy  boil  down  briskly,  uncovered,  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  strain  some  of  it  over  the  partridges.  Perdrix  aux 
Choux  is  quite  a  classical  dish  among  the  French. 

BROILED    QUAIL. 

CAILLES   GRILLEES. 

Pluck,  clean,  and  split  the  birds,  wiping  with  a  damp  cloth, 
not  washing.  Heat  the  gridiron.  Lay  the  birds  upon  it 
with  the  under,  or  bone,  side  toward  the  coals.  Rub  the 
breasts  with  butter.  Broil  for  about  8  minutes ;  then  turn  the 
breast  side  toward  the  fire  and  broil  about  5  minutes  more, 
13  to  15  minutes  in  all.  Do  not  let  them  scorch  or  dry  too 
much.  Have  ready  a  piece  of  toast  for  each  bird.  Trim  off 
the  crusts ;  moisten  with  a  few  drops  of  boiling  broth,  and 
butter  the  toast  generously.  Lay  the  birds  upon  the  toast ; 
butter  the  breasts  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt.  Set  in  the 
oven  1  minute  for  the  butter  to  melt.  Garnish  with  cresses 
and  serve  with  a  salad. 

ROASTED  QUAIL. 

CAILLES    ROTIES. 

Clean,  draw,  and  truss  neatly.  Tie  a  piece  of  fat  pork 
over  the  breast  of  each  bird.  Put  the  birds  in  a  baking-pan 
with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  2  of  boiling  water. 
Stand  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  1 5  to  20  minutes,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  birds  and  heat  of  the  oven,  basting  fre- 
quently with  hot  butter  from  the  pan.     Have  ready  a  piece 


QUAILS  EN   COMPOTE   (COLD).  213 

of  toast  for  each  bird ;  remove  the  crust ;  moisten  with 
boiling  broth  and  butter.  Remove  the  pork  from  the  birds ;_ 
stand  them  upon  the  toast ;  add  salt  and  pepper ;  garnish 
with  cresses  and  serve  with  a  salad. 

QUAIL  SAUTE  IN  LARD. 

CAILLES   SAUTEES. 

Quail  done  in  this  way  have  all  the  appearance  of  being 
roasted,  and  at  the  same  time  preserve  all  their  juices. 
These  being  inclined  to  be  rather  dry  birds,  this  mode  of 
cooking  appears  to  be  one  of  the  best. 

Pluck,  draw,  and  truss  the  birds  neatly,  wiping  them 
inside  and  out  with  a  wet  cloth,  but  not  washing  them. 
Tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  sides ;  or  skewer  them 
with  small  wooden  tooth-picks,  which  serve  admirably  for 
the  purpose.  Run  one  through  the  two  wings  and  body ; 
another  through  the  two  legs  and  body ;  thus  pinning  them 
close  to  the  sides.  Have  a  pan  with  lard  deeper  than 
the  height  of  the  birds,  so  that  they  may  be  completely 
immersed  in  the  fat.  Bring  it  slowly  to  boiling  point  (see 
General  Directions  for  Frying).  When  the  lard  is  ready, 
lay  the  birds  in  with  the  skimmer.  Do  not  put  in  more 
at  a  time  than  you  can  attend  to  well.  They  must  be 
turned  constantly,  that  they  may  cook  and  brown  evenly. 
In  about  8  minutes,  if  the  heat  is  intense  enough,  the 
birds  will  be  done.  You  can  ascertain  this  by  pressing  the 
breast  with  the  flat  side  of  the  fork ;  if  perfectly  firm,  the 
bird  is  cooked.  Drain  thoroughly  and  serve  on  toast,  as 
directed  for  Roast  Quail.  The  birds  should  not  be  darker 
than  golden  brown  when  well  cooked.  Garnish  and  serve 
with  a  salad. 

QUAILS  EN  COMPOTE   (COLD). 

CAILLES   EN   GELEE. 

This  is  another  excellent  mode  of  preparing  these  popular 
birds ;  a  good  dish  for  luncheon,  to  be  served  cold. 


214  GOOD-LIVING. 

6  quail,  Broth, 

4  cloves,  I  bay-leaf, 

I  clove  of  garlic,  8  allspice, 

yi  lady-finger  pepper  without  seeds,  I  sprig  of  thyme, 

Bunch  of  parsley  and  celery.  Salt,  and  salt  pork. 

Pluck,  draw,  and  clean  the  birds,  wiping  with  a  wet  cloth, 
not  washing.  Tie  a  piece  of  salt  pork  over  the  breast  of 
each  one,  and  truss  it  as  described  in  Quail  Saut£,  using 
wooden  tooth-picks.  Lay  the  birds,  breast  upward,  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  all  the  seasonings ;  cover  with  strong,  well-flavored 
broth  or  consomme.  Cover  closely,  and  simmer  very  gently 
until  the  birds  are  very  tender,  but  be  careful  not  to  let 
them  go  to  pieces.  This  will  take  from  45  minutes  to  1 
hour,  according  to  the  quality  of  the  birds.  When  cooked, 
take  them  out  carefully  with  the  skimmer ;  remove  the  pork; 
lay  them  in  a  deep  bowl  and  cover  the  bowl  with  a  plate. 
Boil  down  the  broth  until  there  is  just  about  enough  to  cover 
the  birds  in  the  bowl.  Strain  it.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  if 
necessary ;  pour  it  over  the  birds  and  set  away  to  get  cold. 
If  any  broth  remains,  pour  it  into  a  shallow  dish  and  set 
away  to  harden.  When  the  jelly  has  hardened,  take  the 
birds  out  of  the  bowl  separately  with  whatever  jelly  may 
cling  to  them.  Dish  them  in  a  pyramid  ;  heap  the  jelly  and 
that  in  the  extra  dish  over  them  ;  it  should  be  crumbed  with 
a  fork,  if  quite  firm.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
sliced  lemon.  Serve  with  a  salad.  This  is  really  a  most 
delicious  dish,  pleasing  to  both  eye  and  palate,  and  so  easy 
to  make  that  it  is  strange  it  is  not  more  often  used  to  take 
the  place  of  the  conventional  roast  quail,  whose  only  varia- 
tion is  that  it  is  sometimes  well  and  sometimes  ill-cooked. 

Partridges  may  also  be  prepared  as  above. 

SQUABS  OR  PIGEONS  ROASTED. 

PIGEONS   ROTIS. 

For  this  purpose,  squabs  are  best.  If  you  use  full-grown 
pigeons,  be  careful  to  select  only  tender  ones. 


SQUABS   OR   PIGEONS  BROILED.  21  5 

Pluck,  draw,  and  clean,  wiping  with  a  wet  cloth,  not  wash- 
ing them.  Truss  neatly,  using  wooden  tooth-picks  to  skewer 
the  wings  and  legs  in  place  :  one  passed  through  the  two  wings 
and  body,  another  passed  through  the  two  legs  and  body. 
If  the  pigeons  are  too  large  for  this,  tie  them  in  place. 
Fasten  a  slice  of  fat  pork  over  each  breast.  Put  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut  in  each  bird.  Some  authori- 
ties recommend  also  to  put  in  I  or  2  cranberries.  Lay 
the  pigeons  in  a  roasting-pan  with  I  tablespoonful  of  butter 
and  2  of  boiling  water.  The  oven  should  be  quite  hot,  but 
not  scorching.  Baste  frequently,  and  roast  for  about  15 
minutes,  according  to  size.  Remove  the  fat  pork  and  serve 
on  toast  moistened  with  the  butter  from  the  pan  and  a  little 
strong  broth.  Pigeons,  like  all  dark-fleshed  game,  should  be 
served  under-done. 

SQUABS  OR  PIGEONS  BROILED. 

PIGEONS   GRILLES. 

Pluck,  draw,  clean,  and  wipe  inside  and  out  with  a  wet 
cloth  ;  do  not  wash  them  ;  split  and  spread  open  like  broiled 
chicken.  Have  the  gridiron  heated  very  hot ;  grease  it ;  lay 
the  pigeon  on  the  gridiron  with  the  inner  (or  bone)  side 
toward  the  coals.  Broil,  if  possible,  under  the  grate,  and 
have  the  fire  very  clear  ;  nothing  so  destroys  the  sweetness 
of  a  good  broil  as  the  coal-gas  which  rises,  often  unavoidably, 
if  the  broiler  is  set  over  the  fire.  Rub  the  birds  with  melted 
butter.  Set  a  pan  below  to  catch  it  and  the  juices.  Prepare 
a  piece  of  toast  for  each  bird  :  trim  the  crusts  from  the  edges, 
and  when  the  birds  have  broiled  10  minutes  on  the  inner, 
and  5  on  the  outer  side,  moisten  the  toast  with  the  butter  in 
the  pan ;  add  a  little  good  broth ;  place  the  squabs  on  the 
toast;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  garnish  with  cresses 
and  serve.  If  the  fire  is  very  intense,  three  minutes  on  the 
breast-side  may  suffice.  You  can  ascertain  when  they  are 
done  by  pressing  the  meat  with  the  flat  side  of  a  fork  ;  if  it 
is  slightly  elastic  under  pressure,  it  is  sufficiently  cooked. 


2l6  GOOD-LIVING. 

Never  pierce  game  (or  indeed  any  meat)  with  a  fork  to  see 
if  it  is  cooked  ;  pressing  it,  as  described,  will  teach  you 
very  quickly  to  ascertain  when  it  is  sufficiently  done.  If  it 
is  to  be  cooked  thoroughly  all  through,  as  in  the  case  of 
white-fleshed  game,  the  meat  should  feel  quite  firm  under 
pressure ;  to  be  underdone,  as  for  dark-fleshed  game,  it 
should  feel  elastic,  more  or  less  so  according  to  the  degree 
of  redness  required. 

PIGEONS  STEWED  IN  CONSOMME. 

COMPOTE    DE    PIGEONS. 

6  pigeons,  Consomme  or  good  broth, 

I  sliced  carrot,  6  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork, 

I       "      onion,  3  cloves, 

Sprig  of  parsley,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar, 

]/z  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 

If  )70u  are  not  certain  that  your  pigeons  are  tender,  the 
following  mode  of  cooking  will  insure  their  being  good  eat- 
ing. Pluck,  draw,  and  clean,  wiping  inside  and  out  with  a 
wet  cloth — not  washing.  Tie  them  neatly  in  shape  with  a 
slice  of  bacon  or  pork  over  the  breast  of  each.  Lay  them, 
breast  uppermost,  in  a  saucepan  in  which  you  have  put  2  or 
3  slices  of  bacon.  Fry  the  vegetables  in  butter.  When 
brown,  not  burnt,  add  them  with  the  seasonings,  salt,  and 
pepper.  Cover  with  stock,  and  set  in  one  corner  of  the 
range  where  they  will  simmer  very  gently.  Add  stock,  if  it 
steams  away.  Let  them  simmer  most  gently  until  tender ; 
how  long  that  may  be  will  depend  entirely  upon  the  tough- 
ness of  the  pigeons — anywhere  from  1  hour  to  2  hours  and 
30  minutes,  or  even  more.  Be  careful  that  they  do  not  go 
to  pieces  ;  to  this  end  watch  them  very  carefully  after  I  hour 
has  elapsed.  Place  each  pigeon  upon  a  piece  of  toast  trimmed 
around  the  edges.  Put  the  vegetables  around.  Strain  and 
boil  down  the  gravy  rapidly  for  a  few  minutes.  Pour  over 
the  pigeons,  and  serve.     Excellent. 


"  FOUR-AND-TWENTY  BLACKBIRDS  BAKED  IN  A  PIE.'7   2 If 

AN  ENGLISH  PIGEON-PIE. 

1%  pounds  of  rump  steak,  3  pigeons, 

3  slices  of  ham,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

4  eggs,  boiled  hard,  Pinch  of  powdered  mace, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  Puff  paste. 

Pound  the  steak ;  remove  the  skin  and  fibres,  and  cut  it  in 
pieces  3x3  inches.  With  these  line  the  bottom  of  the  pie- 
dish.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  mace.  Clean 
and  truss  the  pigeons  ;  rub  them  inside  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  put  into  the  body  of  each  ^  ounce  of  butter.  Lay  them 
on  the  steak.  Lay  a  slice  of  ham  on  each  pigeon.  Add  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  also  the  whites,  sliced,  if  liked.  Fill  the 
dish  with  stock,  which  may  be  thickened  with  a  Brown  Roux 
(see  receipt).  Add  a  few  balls  of  good  force-meat,  and  also 
a  few  small  dice  of  the  paste.  Edge  the  dish  with  a  band 
of  paste  ;  cover  it  with  the  same  ;  notch  the  edges  together 
and  trim  them.  Clean  3  of  the  pigeons'  feet ;  stick  these, 
claws  upward,  in  the  middle  of  the  top,  to  show  what  manner 
of  pie  it  is.  Set  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  about  1 
hour.  Watch  that  it  does  not  bake  unevenly.  Then  draw 
it  out ;  brush  the  surface  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
a  few  drops  of  milk,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  about  5 
minutes  more,  until  nicely  browned.  Eat  hot  or  cold — the 
latter  is  best.  N.  B. — Use  Flaky  Crust  or  Puff  Paste  for  the 
above  (see  receipts). 

"FOUR-AND-TWENTY  BLACKBIRDS  BAKED  IN  A 
PIE." 

First  make  your  crust,  Plain  Paste  or  Flaky  Crust  (see 
receipts),  and  set  it  away.  Put  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  for 
30  minutes  the  following  ingredients  : 

I  quart  of  broth,  2  onions,  chopped, 

Bunch  of  parsley  and  celery  leaves,  Salt  and  pepper, 

j4  pound  of  ham,  cut  in  pieces,  6  cloves  and  10  allspice. 

When  the  sauce  has  boiled  as  directed,  put  in  24  black- 
birds,  which   have    been   previously   cleaned.     Simmer   20 


21 8  GOOD-LIVING. 

minutes  or  more,  until  tender.  Be  careful  that  they  do  not 
go  to  pieces.  Put  a  border  of  paste  on  your  pie-dish.  Re- 
move the  birds  and  place  them  in  the  dish.  Slice  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs  into  the  dish,  also  half  a  lemon  (rejecting  the 
pips) ;  add  1  gill  of  sherry.  Strain  off  the  broth,  picking  out 
the  pieces  of  ham  and  some  of  the  onion,  parsley,  and  celery, 
which  also  put  into  the  dish.  Return  the  broth  to  the  fire. 
Make  a  roux  of  1  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and  flour,  the 
latter  heaping.  Stir  together  over  the  fire  until  of  a  rich 
brown  ;  do  not  burn.  Remove  from  the  fire ;  stir  in  the 
boiling  broth  by  degrees,  and  blend  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Strain  the  sauce  and  fill  the  pie-dish.  If  any  is  left,  set  it 
aside  until  the  pie  is  baked.  Now  roll  out  the  top  crust 
rather  more  than  half  an  inch  thick ;  lay  an  extra  layer  of 
paste  on  the  edge  of  the  dish ;  moisten  the  edge ;  put  on 
the  cover  ;  press  the  edges  together  ;  notch  and  trim  neatly. 
Cut  an  x  in  the  middle  of  the  crust ;  place  a  twist  of  paper 
in  the  hole  to  keep  it  open.  Bake  the  pie  about  25  minutes 
in  a  quick  oven.  Bake  on  a  separate  tin  a  rose  or  leaf  of 
paste  with  which  to  cover  the  hole  in  the  pie.  When  it  is 
nearly  done,  draw  the  pie  out,  brush  the  top  with  yolk  of  egg 
beaten  with  a  little  milk ;  set  it  back  in  the  oven,  and  bake 
about  5  minutes  longer  until  nicely  browned.  Remove 
from  the  oven  ;  take  out  the  paper  and  pour  in  the  extra 
sauce  through  the  hole.  Put  the  fancy  crust  over  the  hole, 
and  serve.     It  is  better  eaten  cold. 

Veal  and  ham  pie  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  \ 
veal  to  \  ham. 

BARBECUED  HARE  OR  RABBIT. 

LAPIN   OU    LIEVRE   R6TI. 

Skin  the  rabbit  and  chop  off  the  feet.  Leave  the  head 
on,  skinning  and  cleaning  it  nicely.  Empty  it,  and  wipe  the 
inside  with  a  wet  cloth,  drying  immediately.  Skewer  the 
fore-  and  hind-legs  forward  as  if  lying  down.  Lay  it  in  a 
roasting-pan,  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  3  of  boiling 


STEWED  RABBIT  OR  HARE  AU  CHASSEUR.         219 

water.  Be  very  generous  with  the  butter.  Add  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  air-tight  with  an  inverted  roasting-pan,  to 
keep  in  the  steam.  Set  in  a  hot  oven.  In  about  10  minutes, 
baste  with  the  butter  very  thoroughly,  and  cover  again. 
Repeat  this  process  every  10  minutes  until  the  hare  has  been 
in  the  oven  about  30  minutes,  then,  if  the  flesh  feels  almost 
firm  under  pressure,  leave  off  the  top  pan,  baste  again,  and 
return  to  the  oven  until  nicely  browned.  It  will  take  from 
30  to  45  minutes  in  all,  according  to  the  size  of  the  rabbit  or 
hare.  Do  not  let  the  surface  brown  too  much  or  dry.  Gar- 
nish with  cresses ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper ;  pour  the 
pan-gravy  over  it,  and  serve  with  Maitre  de  Hotel  Butter. 
Put  a  frill  of  cut  paper  over  the  bone  of  each  leg. 

STEWED  RABBIT  OR  HARE  AU  CHASSEUR. 

LAPIN  OU   LIEVRE  AU  CHASSEUR. 

1  rabbit  or  hare,  1  gill  of  sherry, 

1  pint  of  boiling  water,  I  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour, 

I  onion,  cut  fine,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

6  cloves  and  12  allspice,  1  bay-leaf, 

24  small  white  onions,  I  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 

Pepper  and  salt. 

Skin  and  clean  the  rabbit.  Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth  ;  do 
not  soak  it  in  water.  Leave  the  rabbit  whole,  or  disjoint  it, 
as  preferred.  The  latter  is  recommended.  Put  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  into  a  large  frying-pan.  When  the  butter 
is  melted,  lay  in  the  rabbit ;  turn  and  brown  on  all  sides,  not 
too  dark.  Then  put  it  into  an  iron  pot  which  has  been 
heating,  meanwhile,  on  the  side  of  the  range.  When  the 
rabbit  is  all  browned,  put  the  onion  into  the  pan  and  fry 
very  brown,  but  do  not  burn.  Add  this  to  the  pot.  Now 
put  into  the  frying-pan  the  rest  of  the  butter  with  the  flour, 
and  stir  until  well  browned,  but  not  burned  ;  draw  aside  and 
add  by  degrees  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Pour  this  over  the  rabbit.  Now  add  enough  boiling  water 
to  half  cover  the  rabbit.  Add  all  the  other  seasonings ; 
close  the  lid  tightly  and  set  where  it  will  simmer  very  gently 


220  GOOD-LIVING. 

for  45  minutes  to  I  hour.  This  will  suffice  if  the  rabbit  is 
young  and  tender  ;  if  not,  cook  longer,  watching  that  it  does 
not  go  to  pieces.  Meanwhile  peel  the  onions  in  water.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  salted  boiling  water  and  boil  about 
I  hour,  perhaps  less,  if  quite  small.  When  you  can  pierce 
them  very  easily  with  a  skewer,  drain  them.  Now  remove 
the  rabbit  from  the  pot  ;  arrange  it  neatly  on  a  hot  dish  ; 
strain  the  gravy  ;  return  it  to  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  down 
briskly  for  a  few  minutes.  Now  arrange  the  onions  all 
around  the  rabbit.  There  should  be  enough  to  make  a  con- 
tinuous row  like  large  white  beads.  If  the  sauce  is  not 
quite  thick  enough  by  this  time,  add  a  pinch  of  corn-starch 
blended  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water ;  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  gravy ;  boil  three  minutes  ;  add  the  wine  ;  pour  the 
sauce  over  the  rabbit,  not  over  the  onions,  and  serve. 
Recommended. 

POTTED   HARE    OR  RABBIT. 

LIEVRE  OU  LAPIN  EN  COMPOTE. 

Skin,  clean,  and  joint  the  hare  or  rabbit,  and  prepare 
according  to  the  receipt  for  Pigeons  en  Compote. 

SADDLE   OF   VENISON. 

SELLE  DE  CHEVREUIL. 

Should  be  roasted  exactly  the  same  as  a  Saddle  of  Mutton, 
allowing  9  or  10  minutes  to  the  pound  (see  receipt).  Saddle 
of  venison  should  always  be  served  very  under-done.  Put  a 
frill  of  cut  paper  on  the  tail ;  garnish  tastefully  and  serve 
with  currant  jelly  and  a  salad.  The  plates  on  which  the 
venison  is  served  should  be  very  hot. 

HAUNCH  OF   VENISON  NO.   I. 

CUISSOT   DE   CHEVREUIL   I. 

Roast  exactly  like  a  leg  of  mutton,  covering  with  a  second 
pan  and  basting  frequently  with  melted  butter.  Allow  about 


VENISON  STEAK  NO  II.  221 

10  minutes  to  the  pound  in  a  hot  oven.  Venison  should 
always  be  served  juicy  and  under-done.  Serve  with  a  Jelly 
Sauce  (see  receipt),  or  with  its  own  juices,  currant  jelly 
being  handed  at  the  same  time.  Put  a  frill  of  cut  paper  on 
the  bone ;  garnish  and  serve  with  a  salad. 

HAUNCH  OF   VENISON  NO.   II. 

CUISSOT   DE   CHEVREUIL   II. 

Make  a  large  sheet  of  coarse  paste — that  is,  mix  together 
a  little  lard,  flour,  and  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  paste ; 
roll  the  leg  in  this,  covering  every  part,  and  put  it  in  the 
roasting-pan  in  the  oven.  It  requires  no  basting.  Allow 
the  same  time,  about  10  minutes  to  the  pound.  Before 
serving,  break  off  the  crust.  Put  a  frill  around  the  bone ; 
garnish  and  serve  with  Jelly  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

BROILED    VENISON  STEAK  NO.  I. 

Cut  slices  from  the  leg  and  broil  them  over  a  quick,  clear 
fire,  turning  constantly.  Steaks  I  inch  thick  will  not  require 
more  than  8  to  io  minutes,  as  they  must  be  served  very 
under-done.  When  done,  butter  both  sides ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper ;  garnish  and  serve  alone,  or  with  Jelly 
Sauce. 

VENISON  STEAK  NO.   II. 

Cut  slices  f  of  an  inch  thick  from  the  leg.  Cut  these  into 
even  pieces  about  3x3  inches.  Prepare  a  Jelly  Sauce  (see 
receipt)  in  a  saucepan  on  the  side  of  the  range.  Have  the 
fire  very  clear  and  hot.  Heat  the  broiler.  Lay  the  little 
steaks  on  it.  Turn  very  often.  In  8  minutes,  or  less,  they 
will  be  sufficiently  cooked.  Drop  them  into  the  sauce  ;  let 
them  stand  well  covered  by  the  same  for  5  or  10  minutes ; 
keep  hot,  but  on  no  account  let  them  cook.  Serve  on  a 
very  hot  dish,  in  a  circle,  one  overlapping  the  other.  Pour 
the  sauce  over ;  garnish,  and  serve. 


222  GOOD-LIVING. 

VENISON  IN  A    CHAFING  DISH. 

Cold  sliced  venison,  Butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut, 

2  gills  of  cooking-sherry  or  one  of  port,  I  gill  of  currant  or  grape  jelly, 

]/z  teaspoon  of  corn-starch,  Pepper  and  salt. 

The  meat  should  be  very  tender,  underdone,  and  cut  in 
thick  slices.  Or  you  can  have  a  steak  cut  into  pieces,  2x2 
inches,  and  slightly  broiled,  and  add  these  to  the  sauce  2 
minutes  before  serving.  Make  the  sauce  as  follows :  Melt 
the  butter  in  the  chafing-dish  ;  add  the  jelly ;  let  it  dissolve 
entirely  ;  then  add  the  port  wine  and  about  i  gill  of  boiling 
water,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  it  boils,  stir  in  the 
corn-starch  blended  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  and  boil 
i  minute.  Add  the  pieces  of  cold  or  broiled  venison ;  turn 
them  in  the  sauce  and  heat  for  2  minutes,  then  serve.  The 
meat  should  be  kept  well  covered  with  the  sauce  while  heat- 
ing.    This  is  an  excellent  old-fashioned  dish  for  luncheon. 

VENISON  STEW. 

RAGOUT   DE   CHEVREUIL. 

Follow  the  directions  for  Stewed  Beef  with  Brown 
Gravy,  cutting  the  venison  in  pieces ;  add  to  the  sauce 
when  done  a  gill  of  wine,  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Before  adding  the  wine  remove  the 
meat  to  a  hot  dish.  Make  some  Dumplings  (see  receipts)  ; 
drop  them  in  small  balls  into  the  boiling  sauce.  Cover  and 
boil  briskly  for  io  minutes.  Dish  the  dumplings  around  the 
meat  ;  strain  the  sauce  ;  season  as  above  ;  pour  it  over  the 
meat  and  serve.  The  above  may  be  made  with  any  rough 
bits  of  venison,  or  from  the  remnants  of  haunch  or  saddle 
already  cooked,  if  under-done.  Use  claret  or  port  wine  in 
preference  to  sherry  for  the  sauce. 

VENISON  PASTY. 

Follow  the  directions  for  Four-and-Twenty  Blackbird 
Pie,  in  all  details,  cutting  the  meat  in  pieces.     Add  dice  of 


GAME  PA  T£  JELLIED.  223 

boiled  pork,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  wine.  When  baked,  fill 
the  pie  through  the  top  opening  with  gravy.  It  will  require 
about  1  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Finish  and  serve  as 
directed.  It  is  best  eaten  cold,  1  or  2  days  after  it  is  made. 
1  gill  of  port  wine  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  added  to 
the  gravy  will  be  found  a  further  improvement,  but  is  not 
indispensable. 

CIVET  DE  CHEVREUIL. 

Prepare  as  directed  for  Venison  Stew,  omitting  the 
dumplings,  and  adding  dice  of  salt  pork. 

GAME  PATE   JELLIED. 

PATE  DE  GIBIER  EN  GELEE. 

I  pair  of  partridges  or  rabbits,  ]/z  pound  sausage-meat, 

j^  pound  salt  pork,  minced,  Any  livers  of  game  or  poultry, 

Grated  bread-crumbs,  Lemon-juice, 

Nutmeg,  Pepper  and  salt, 

I  gill  of  wine,  Sliced  salt  pork, 

Garlic  and  spices,  3  eggs, 
I  pint  of  stock. 

Having  stewed  the  partridges  or  rabbits,  the  latter  cut  in 
pieces,  save  the  breasts  of  the  partridges  removed  in  large 
pieces  from  the  carcass  ;  pick  off  all  the  rest  of  the  meat 
from  the  bones  and  chop  it  very  fine  by  the  Enterprise 
Chopper.  Chop  also  the  sausage-meat,  salt  pork,  and  any 
livers  of  game  or  poultry  that  you  may  have.  A  little  piece 
of  calf's  liver,  scalded  until  firm,  may  replace  these  last. 
Take  \,  or  rather  less,  of  the  bulk  of  all  these  in  stale  bread- 
crumbs. Put  the  bones  of  the  partridges,  garlic,  spices, 
stock,  etc.,  to  boil,  and  finish  as  directed  for  Chicken  Pat£ 
Jellied  (see  receipt). 


MACARONI    AND    VARIOUS    ENTREES    NOT 
OTHERWISE    CLASSIFIED. 

TIM  BALE  OF  MACARONI. 

TIMBALE  DE  MACARONI. 

6  ounces  of  cold  ham,  chopped  fine,        2  ounces  boiled  macaroni, 
1  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,         1  tablespoon  of  good  stock, 

1  "  "  mushroom  catsup,  4  tablespoons  of  bread-crumbs, 

1  egg. 

Boil  the  macaroni  in  salted  boiling  water  for  about  25  min- 
utes, until  tender.  Drain.  Cut  it  in  pieces  I  inch  long.  Mix 
the  bread-crumbs  and  ham  well ;  then  add  stock,  seasonings 
and  sauces.  Mix  ;  add  the  egg  well  beaten.  Grease  a  plain 
mould  that  has  a  cover.  Line  the  mould  with  the  macaroni ; 
fill  with  the  mixture ;  press  closely.  Put  on  the  lid  ;  fasten 
it  firmly.  Stand  the  mould  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  deep 
enough  to  f  cover  it.  Cover  the  kettle.  Boil  1  hour.  When 
done,  turn  it  from  the  mould,  and  serve  with  Bechamel  Sauce 
or  Stewed  Mushrooms  (see  receipts). 

MACARONI  A  LA  MILANAISE. 

yi  pound  macaroni,  I  can  of  tomatoes, 

2  cloves  of  garlic,  Sprig  each  of  thyme  and  parsley, 
]4  tablespoon  of  butter,  Salt  and  cayenne, 

%  pound  cold  ham,  cut  in  dice,  1  scant  tablespoon  of  flour, 

Grated  Parmesan  or  other  cheese. 

To  make   the    sauce,    put    tomatoes,   garlic,    thyme,    and 
parsley  into  a  stewpan.     Stew  1  hour  ;  then  press  pulp  and 
juice  through  a  sieve.     Return  to   the  fire.     Rub  together 
224 


BOILED   MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE.  225 

butter  and  flour  in  a  frying-pan  over  the  fire  until  well 
browned  but  not  burned  ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in 
enough  of  the  boiling  tomato-juice  to  blend  it.  Pour 
this  into  the  stewpan  of  tomatoes ;  stir  until  perfectly 
smooth  ;  add  the  ham,  and  boil  about  io  minutes.  Mean- 
while, boil  the  macaroni  briskly  in  salted  boiling  water  for 
about  20  minutes.  When  quite  tender,  drain  it  thoroughly  ; 
add  it  to  the  sauce,  and  set  the  saucepan  where  it  will  stew 
gently,  without  actually  boiling,  for  20  minutes  or  more  ;  the 
macaroni  must  be  thoroughly  saturated  with  the  sauce.  It 
scorches  easily,  therefore  watch  it.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish  and 
hand  at  the  same  time  grated  cheese,  Parmesan  and  Gruyere 
mixed. 

BOILED  MACARONI. 

j£  pound  of  macaroni,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

Salt  and  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Fill  a  3-quart  kettle  with  boiling  water  ;  add  salt.  Hold 
the  macaroni  in  a  bunch  over  the  kettle  with  the  ends  in  the 
boiling  water  ;  as  they  soften,  introduce  the  macaroni  by 
degrees  into  the  boiling  water.  This  is  the  correct  way  to 
preserve  the  length  of  the  macaroni,  not  breaking  it.  Boil 
rapidly  for  25  minutes  ;  when  perfectly  tender,  drain  it  in  the 
colander.  Put  in  the  kettle  I  pint  of  fresh  boiling  water,  salt 
and  pepper.  Rub  together  flour  and  butter  until  smooth  ; 
blend  with  the  boiling  water  ;  stir  until  perfectly  smooth ; 
then  add  the  macaroni  to  the  sauce  ;  boil  3  minutes,  and 
serve  in  a  deep  dish.  Serve  grated  cheese  separately.  Or 
the  macaroni  may  be  broken  into  convenient  lengths,  if  the 
above  is  too  difficult. 

BOILED  MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE. 

MACARONI   A   L'lTALIENNE. 

Fill  a  3-quart  kettle  with  boiling  water ;  add  3  teaspoons 
of  salt.  Boil  the  macaroni  as  directed  in  above  receipt,  or 
break  it  into  convenient  lengths.     Boil  the  macaroni  rapidly 


226  GOOD-LIVING. 

for  25  minutes.  When  perfectly  tender,  drain  thoroughly  in 
a  colander.  Serve  in  a  hot  dish.  Serve  at  the  same  time 
plain  melted  butter  in  a  sauce-boat  ;  also  grated  cheese ; 
mixed  Parmesan  and  Gruyere  being  best. 

MA  CARONI A  U  GRA  TIN. 

Boil  a  \  pound  of  Macaroni  (see  receipt).  When  per- 
fectly tender,  drain  thoroughly.  Let  the  cold  water  tap  run 
on  it  for  a  minute  or  more  and  set  aside  again  to  drain. 
Bring  about  1  pint  of  milk  to  a  boil.  Melt  in  it  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  butter ;  add  pepper  and  salt.  Beat  up  in  a  bowl  2 
eggs  and  1  large  tablespoonful  each  of  grated  Gruyere  and 
Parmesan  cheese.  Now  put  the  macaroni  into  a  fire-proof 
bake-dish.  Then  pour  the  boiling  milk  by  degrees  upon  the 
egg  and  cheese,  stirring  rapidly.  Pour  the  milk,  egg,  and 
cheese  over  the  macaroni.  It  should  quite  cover  the  latter; 
if  not,  add  a  little  more  plain,  hot  milk.  Sprinkle  grated 
cheese  over  the  top,  and  set  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  20 
to  30  minutes.     The  top  should  be  of  a  rich  brown. 

VOL-A  U-VENT  BOURGEOIS. 

2  pairs  of  calves'  brains,  6  sausages, 

ioo  small  oysters  or  50  large,  1  qt.  of  White  Sauce  (see  receipt), 

I  gill  of  sherry,  Celery-salt  and  cayenne, 

I  level  teaspoon  of  curry-powder,  Salt. 

Parboil  the  brains ;  cut  them  in  square  pieces.  Fry  the 
sausages  until  half  cooked  ;  cut  them  in  slices  across.  Scald 
the  oysters  in  their  own  juice  for  3  minutes.  Now  strain 
this  juice  and  use  it,  in  making  the  sauce,  to  blend  the  flour 
and  butter,  eking  out  the  amount  required  with  boiling 
water.  Stir  in  the  seasonings.  Taste  to  see  that  the  curry 
does  not  predominate,  and  that  there  is  sufficient  celery-salt 
and  wine.  If  these  seasonings  are  judiciously  used,  the  com- 
bination is  delicious.  Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  Puff  Paste 
or  with  Flaky  Crust  (see  receipts),  making  the  bottom  crust 
thin  and  building  up  the  edges  with  2  or  3  extra  layers.    Fill 


CHICKEN  AND   OYSTER  PIE.  227 

this  with  the  oysters,  brains,  and  sausages ;  cover  with  the 
sauce.  Roll  the  top  crust  \  of  an  inch  thick  ;  cover  the  pie  ; 
moisten  the  edges  to  keep  them  together ;  notch  and  trim 
them  neatly  ;  make  a  x  cut  in  the  centre.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erately-quick oven  20  to  30  minutes,  watching  carefully  that 
it  does  not  scorch.  Draw  it  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven; 
brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg  beaten  with  milk  ;  return  to  the 
oven  for  2  or  3  minutes  until  browned.  Bake  on  a  separate 
tin  a  piece  of  crust  in  some  fancy  shape,  and  place  it  over  the 
x  cut  in  the  pie.  Use,  if  possible,  a  dish  that  can  stand 
inside  of  a  fancy  cover  ;  if  not,  fold  a  table-napkin  neatly, 
diagonally,  the  width  of  the  dish,  and  pin  it  around.  This 
is  a  very  simple  dish,  but  delicious. 

CHICKEN  AND  OYSTER  PIE. 

Cold  boiled  chicken,  1  qt.  of  White  Sauce  (see  receipt), 

100  small  oysters  or  50  large,  1  grated  onion, 

1  slice  of  cold  ham,  cut  in  dice,  1  gill  of  sherry, 

Pepper,  celery-salt,  Cayenne  and  salt. 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  chicken  in  even,  neat  pieces.  Scald 
the  oysters  in  their  own  juice.  Make  a  sauce  according  to 
receipt  (White  Sauce),  using  the  strained  oyster-juice  to 
blend  it,  eking  out  the  necessary  quantity  with  boiling  water. 
Add  to  the  sauce  the  grated  onion  and  seasonings  (see 
Vol-au-vent  Bourgeois).  Make  a  Puff  Paste  or  Flaky  Crust ; 
line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  a  thin  layer  of  paste,  building  up 
the  edges  with  2  or  3  extra  layers.  Fill  the  dish  with  the 
chicken,  oysters,  and  ham.  Pour  the  sauce  over  all.  Cover 
with  paste  rolled  f  of  an  inch  thick.  Moisten  the  edges  to 
keep  them  together ;  notch  and  trim  them  neatly  ;  put  an  x 
cut  in  the  centre.  Bake  on  a  separate  tin  a  small  piece  of 
crust,  cut  in  some  fancy  shape,  wherewith  to  cover  the  hole  in 
the  pie.  Bake  the  pie  for  about  30  minutes  in  a  moderately- 
quick  oven,  watching  that  it  browns  evenly.  Draw  it  to  the 
mouth  of  the  oven  ;  brush  the  top  with  egg-yolk  and  milk, 
and  return  to  the  oven  for  2  or  3  minutes  until  browned. 
Use  a  dish  that  can  be  stood  in  a  fancy  cover  ;  if  not,  pin  a 
folded  napkin  neatly  around  it.     Serve  hot. 


228  GOOD-LIVING. 

PHILADELPHIA     CHICKEN    AND    SWEETBREAD 
CROQUETTES. 

I  chicken,  about  4  pounds,  1  small  onion, 

1  bay-leaf,  1  pair  of  sweetbreads, 

4  whole  cloves,  1  sprig  of  parsley,  salt. 

Singe,  draw,  and  clean  the  chicken.  Put  it  into  a  pot  with 
cloves,  bay-leaf,  onion,  parsley,  and  enough  cold  water  to 
cover.  Put  on  the  lid  and  simmer  gently  until  very  tender, 
I  hour  and  30  minutes  or  more,  according  to  age.  Having 
prepared  the  sweetbreads  (see  directions),  trim  off  all  fat, 
fibres  and  strings ;  cut  very  fine  with  a  silver  knife.  When 
the  chicken  is  tender,  remove  skin  and  bones  and  return 
them  to  the  soup-pot  to  simmer  again.  This  liquor  may  be 
used  for  soup.  Chop  the  meat  very  fine  (with  an  Enterprise 
Chopper  if  you  have  it)  ;  mix  with  the  sweetbreads,  and  to 
every  pint  of  this  meat  allow : 

2  gills  of  milk  or  cream,  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

I         "  "   salt,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

X      "         "  grated  nutmeg,  Cayenne  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  the  milk  to  boil  in  a  farina-kettle.  Rub  together  the 
flour  and  butter  to  a  smooth  paste  over  the  fire,  but  do  not 
brown  ;  then  stir  into  them  the  boiling  milk.  Stir  until  very 
thick.  Remove  from  the  fire  ;  add  meat  and  seasonings,  and 
mix  well.  Taste  to  see  if  the  seasonings  are  good.  Turn 
out  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  and  firm,  form  into 
cone-shaped  croquettes  (there  are  moulds  for  the  purpose)  or 
cylindrical,  1  x  2\  inches.  The  latter  are  easier  for  a  novice. 
Have  at  hand  a  plate  of  flour,  a  plate  of  raw  eggs,  and 
a  bowl  of  sifted  bread-crumbs.  Flour  your  hands  well ; 
take  up  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture,  mould  it  into  shape; 
roll  it  over  in  the  egg,  drop  it  into  the  bowl  of  crumbs  ;  cover 
every  part  with  these.  Correct  the  shape  if  necessary,  and 
lay  them  on  a  flat  dish.  The  air  must  reach  all  sides.  Set 
away  in  the  ice-box  for  at  least  1  hour.  Then  fry  in  deep 
lard  until  golden  brown.  The  lard  should  be  deep  enough 
to  entirely  cover  the  croquettes.     Use  a  frying-basket  (see 


BOUCHEES  A    LA    REINE,   ETC.  229 

General  Directions  for  Frying).  When  golden  brown,  lay 
them  on  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  dry,  serve 
on  a  folded  napkin  or  cut  paper  with  fresh  or  Fried  Parsley 
(see  receipt). 

N.  B. — The  whole  success  of  croquettes  depends  upon 
having  the  lard  hot  enough  ;  if  it  is  not  just  right,  they  will 
be  spoiled.  Pieces  of  cold  chicken  or  turkey  may  be  used, 
and  brains  substituted  for  the  sweetbreads. 

RISSOLES. 

3  gills  of  cold  meat,  cut  in  small  dice,  Parsley,  chopped, 
1  gill  of  chopped  pork  or  ham,  Mushrooms, 

4  tablespoons  of  gravy  or  water,  I  egg, 

I  level  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  butter. 

Stir  the  flour  and  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire  until 
blended  ;  then  add  the  gravy,  broth  or  boiling  water  ;  stir 
smooth.  Boil  2  minutes.  Then  stir  in  the  meat  and  season- 
ings ;  bring  to  boiling  point  ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir 
in  very  briskly  the  egg  which  has  been  beaten  until  mixed. 
Do  not  let  it  cook  again.  Set  away  to  cool.  Make  a  thin 
sheet  of  Puff  Paste  or  Flaky  Crust  (see  receipts).  Wet  it 
for  about  3  inches  from  the  edge,  and  place  upon  \  the 
sheet  little  heaps  of  the  prepared  meat,  about  4  inches 
apart.  Double  over  the  paste,  covering  the  heaps.  Press 
the  side  of  the  hand  between  each,  pressing  the  paste  to- 
gether close  to  the  heaps.  Then  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  or  with 
a  tumbler,  cut  out  each  heap  in  a  circle  or  half-moon.  Brush 
the  top  with  egg  ;  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  or  fry  in  hot  butter. 
The  egg  may  be  omitted  from  the  force-meat.  Serve  in  a 
pyramid  on  cut  paper  or  a  folded  napkin,  garnished  with 
parsley. 

BOUCHEES  A   LA  REINE,  ETC. 

Heat  shells  of  puff -paste  thoroughly  and  fill  with  chicken 
(see  Chicken  en  Caisses).  Other  bouchees  may  be  filled  with 
Devilled  Scallops  (see  receipts),  sweetbreads  (see  Sweet- 
breads en  Casseroles,  or  Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms) ; 
or  with  stewed  oysters  (see  Stewed  Oysters  for  Pat6s),  etc. 


230  GOOD-LIVING. 

JELLIED  MEAT  LOAF. 

PAIN   DE   VIANDE   EN   GELEE. 

I  quart  of  pieces  of  cold  meat,  Salt  to  taste. 

^  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves,  I  cup  of  boiling  veal  stock, 

I  "  "       allspice,  y2  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon, 

^         "  "       mace,  %         "  "  black  pepper. 

Use  for  the  purpose  some  stock  that  will  jelly.  If  you  are 
not  confident  of  what  you  have,  either  boil  it  down  to  at 
least  double  its  strength,  or  else  add  to  the  boiling  liquid  I 
teaspoonful  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Mix  well  all 
the  ingredients.  Press  the  mixture  into  a  mould  that  has 
been  rinsed  in  cold  water ;  set  away  to  cool  and  harden. 
Use  some  such  combination  as  veal  and  ham,  chicken  and 
ham,  or  even  bouilli,  with  I  or  2  hard-boiled  eggs.  When 
hard,  loosen  the  edges  with  a  knife,  turn  out  the  form  on 
a  dish,  and  serve  with  salad. 

The  various  forms  of  these  Meat  Loaves  cannot  be  too 
strongly  recommended  for  savoriness  and  economy.  They 
keep  very  well,  and  serve  admirably  for  luncheon,  or  with 
salad  for  dinner  (see  various  receipts). 

VOL-AU-VENT. 

Have  the  pastry-cook  make  the  vol-au-vent  crust ;  it  is 
such  a  troublesome  piece  of  work  that  it  cannot  be  recom- 
mended for  home  manufacture.  Heat  the  empty  shell  very 
hot,  and  fill  it  with  Sweetbreads  with  Mushrooms  (see  re- 
ceipt), to  which  add  2  gills  or  more  of  Quenelles  (see  receipt) ; 
or  fill  with  the  mixture  for  Sweetbreads  en  Casseroles  (see 
receipt),  to  which  add  quenelles  as  above ;  or  fill  with 
Chicken  Saute  with  Mushrooms  (see  receipt),  to  which  add 
wine,  truffles,  quenelles,  and,  if  liked,  cocks'-combs.  These 
last  may  be  had  of  any  first-class  grocer.  Or  the  vol-au-vent 
may  have  the  same  filling  as  that  used  in  receipt  for  Vol-au- 
vent  .Bourgeois,  or  Chicken  and  Oyster  Pie ;  or,  again,  fill 
with  Oysters  Stewed  a  la  Poulette,  or  Oysters  for  Pates 
(see  receipts). 


STUFFED    CABBAGE.  23 1 

SCALLOPED  TO  MA  TOES  WITH  ME  A  T. 

1  cup  of  cold  meat,  chopped,  1  cup  of  bread-crumbs, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Cayenne, 

%  grated  onion,  Pepper  and  salt, 

Tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned,  Butter. 

Use  cold  mutton,  lamb,  veal,  or  chicken,  in  fact  almost 
any  meat.  Mince  the  cold  meat  quite  fine ;  add  to  it  an 
equal  bulk  of  stale  bread,  the  parsley,  onion,  pepper,  salt,  and 
a  good  pinch  of  cayenne.  Line  the  sides  of  a  bake-dish  with 
peeled  tomatoes  cut  in  halves.  Fill  the  dish  with  the  meat ; 
lay  over  this  a  thick  layer  of  tomatoes  cut  in  thick  slices  or 
halves ;  sprinkle  with  bread-crumbs,  pepper,  and  salt ;  dot  the 
top  with  butter,  and  set  in  the  oven  for  about  45  to  60  min- 
utes.    If  canned  tomatoes  are  used,  drain  thoroughly. 


STUFFED    CABBAGE. 

CHOUX    FARCIS. 

For  this,  select  a  nice  head  of  Savoy  cabbage.  Cover  it 
with  boiling  water ;  set  aside  1 5  minutes,  then  drain.  Scald 
again  ;  let  stand  30  minutes,  then  drain  dry.  Make  the  stuf- 
fing as  follows : 

2  heaping  tablespoons  of  washed  rice,     j^  pound  of  sausage-meat, 

1  tablespoon  of  grated  onion,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Mix  all  well  together.  Open  the  cabbage  carefully  to  the 
very  centre ;  put  in  \  teaspoon  of  the  mixture  ;  fold  over  this 
2  or  3  of  the  small  leaves ;  cover  these  again  with  a  layer  of  the 
force-meat ;  fold  over  this  the  next  layer  of  leaves,  and  so  on 
until  each  layer  receives  its  share  of  force-meat.  Press  all  firmly 
together;  tie  in  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  ;  put  it  into  a  kettle  of 
salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  two  hours.  When  done,  care- 
fully remove  the  cloth,  and  serve  the  cabbage  in  a  deep 
round  dish  with  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt)  poured  over  it. 


232  GOOD-LIVTNG. 

STEWED  RED  CABBAGE  A  LA  FLAMANDE. 

CHOUX   FARCIS   A   LA   FLAMANDE. 

Prepare  a  red  cabbage  as  directed  (see  Stuffed  Cabbage) ; 
stuff  it  with  a  force-meat  of  mutton,  veal,  or  sausage-meat 
(see  Force-meat)  ;  cover  £  with  stock  and  red  wine,  and  stew 
it  for  3  or  4  hours  until  perfectly  tender.  It  must  simmer 
very  gently.  Dish  the  cabbage  on  a  round  dish ;  set  the 
sauce  again  on  the  fire  and  boil  it  down  briskly  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  stir  in  a  little  corn-starch  blended  with  cold 
water ;  boil  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly ;  strain,  and  pour 
over  the  cabbage. 

N.  B. — The  cabbage  must  be  kept  covered  air-tight  while 
cooking. 

MEAT  SAUSAGES  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

Cold  meat,  minced  very  fine,  I  egg, 

]^  bulk  of  meat  in  chopped  pork,  Pepper  and  salt, 

Powdered  sage  or  sweet  herbs,  Lemon-juice. 

Mix  all  well  together  ;  form  into  balls,  and  fry  in  hot  butter 
and  lard  mixed.  Serve  with  apple  sauce  or  fried  apples. 
You  may  add  to  the  mixture  £  or  \  of  the  bulk  of  boiled  rice 
or  stale  bread-crumbs. 

TO  A  D-IN-  THE-HOLE. 

I  pound  of  round  steak  or  mutton,  cold,  i  egg,  beaten  light, 

I  pint  of  milk,  I  cup  of  flour, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Cut  the  meat  in  dice.  Beat  the  milk  into  the  egg ;  stir 
these  into  the  flour ;  beat  well ;  add  seasonings  and  meat ;  put 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish.  Bake  1  hour.  Serve  in  the  same 
dish. 


FORCE-MEATS,  GARNISHES,  ETC. 

QUENELLES. 

I  pound  of  lean  veal  from  the  leg,  poultry,  or  game,     6  ounces  of  butter, 

1  pound  of  bread-crumbs,  i  ounce  of  butter, 

2  tablespoons  of  rich  Cream  Sauce,  Pinch  of  salt  and  pepper, 

5  eggs  less  2  whites. 

Pound  the  veal ;  scrape  it  with  a  knife ;  pound  it  in  a  mortar ; 
then  rub  it  through  a  sieve.  Steep  the  inside  of  a  loaf  of 
bread  for  I  or  2  minutes  in  tepid  water,  then  squeeze  it  quite 
dry.  Put  the  bread  in  a  stewpan  with  I  ounce  of  butter,  and 
stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  ceases  to  stick  to  the  pan  and 
forms  a  smooth,  stiff  paste.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Remove 
it  from  the  fire,  and  set  it  away  to  cool  between  2  plates. 
When  cold,  put  12  ounces  of  the  prepared  veal,  6  ounces  of 
fresh  butter,  and  8  ounces  of  the  bread-panada  into  a  mortar 
and  pound  well  together ;  break  in,  one  by  one,  3  whole  eggs  ; 
mix  well ;  add  2  more  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  Cream  Sauce 
(see  receipt).  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
mace  to  taste.  When  the  force-meat  has  been  pounded  to  a 
smooth,  even  paste,  put  it  away  in  a  bowl  to  cool,  and  it  is 
ready  for  use.  To  cook  it,  have  ready  a  saucepan  of  salted 
boiling  water ;  take  up  the  meat  between  2  tablespoons ; 
smooth  it  in  good  shape,  and  drop  it  into  the  boiling  water. 
Test  some  first.  If  the  quenelles  are  too  soft,  add  more  egg; 
if  too  hard,  more  bread-panada  or  sauce.  These  large  ones 
may  be  served  in  a  circle  with  a  sauce  of  mushrooms  or 
truffles ;  or  the  force-meat  may  be  poached  in  small  almond- 
shaped  pieces  or  balls  and  served  in  clear  soup.  Quenelles 
are  also  very  useful  as  a  garnish  for  Vol-au-Vents,  etc.  (see 
receipts). 

233 


234  GOOD-LIVING. 

SOYERS  RECEIPT  FOR  QUENELLES. 

\y2  pounds  of  fillet  of  veal,  4  eggs, 

6  ounces  of  panada,  1  pound  of  fresh  beef  suet, 

%  teaspoon  of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Y%  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg. 

Cut  the  veal  into  long,  thin  slices  ;  scrape  with  a  knife  until 
nothing  remains  but  fibre  ;  put  it  into  a  mortar  and  pound  10 
minutes,  or  until  it  becomes  of  the  consistency  of  a  puree ; 
pass  it  through  a  wire  sieve  (the  piece  which  is  left  can  be 
put  in  the  soup-pot).  Skin,  shred,  and  chop  the  suet  very- 
fine  ;  put  it  into  the  mortar  and  pound  it.  Add  the  panada 
(that  is,  the  crumb  of  bread  soaked  in  milk  and  boiled  until 
nearly  dry)  to  the  suet ;  pound  them  well  together.  Add 
the  veal.  Add  seasonings.  Work  all  well  together.  Add 
then,  1  at  a  time,  the  4  eggs,  continually  pounding  the  con- 
tents of  the  mortar.  When  well  mixed,  take  a  small  piece  in 
a  spoon  and  poach  it  in  salted  boiling  water ;  if  it  is  delicate, 
firm,  and  of  a  good  flavor,  it  is  ready  for  use.  N.  B. — If  too 
soft,  add  another  yolk  of  egg ;  if  too  firm,  add  a  little  cream 
or  stock.  The  flavor  may  be  varied  by  making  up  the 
weight  of  veal  by  a  small  proportion  of  ham  ;  1  or  2  mush- 
rooms may  also  be  used.  The  essential  point  is  to  pound 
the  mixture  unsparingly ;  the  more  it  is  pounded  the  finer 
and  more  delicate  will  be  the  quenelles. 

FISH  QUENELLES. 

QUENELLES    DE    POISSON. 

%  pound  of  bread-panada,  Pepper, 

1  pound  of  flesh  of  any  fine  fish,      ,  Salt, 

2  eggs>  X  pound  of  butter. 

Rub  the  fish,  freed  from  skin  and  bone,  through  a  sieve. 
Prepare  the  bread-panada  (see  Quenelles).  Mix  with  it  the 
butter  and  fish  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  nut- 
meg or  mace,  and  pound  in  the  mortar.  Mix  in  the  eggs,  1 
at  a  time  ;  moisten  with  a  little  Fish-broth  (see  receipt),  and 
pound  all  together  until  it  becomes  a  smooth  paste.     Poach 


FORCE-MEATBALLSNO.il.  235 

as  directed,  using  fish-stock  instead  of  plain  boiling  water. 
Serve  large  quenelles  as  an  entree,  with  Lobster  or  Shrimp 
Sauce  (see  receipts),  or  as  a  garnish.  Test  a  piece  of  the  force- 
meat in  the  boiling  broth  ;  if  too  soft,  add  an  egg ;  if  too 
firm,  add  a  little  more  fish-stock  and  panada. 

EGG  BALLS. 

6  hard-boiled  eggs,  Pinch  of  flour, 

2  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  Salt  to  taste. 

Pound  the  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs  until  perfectly  smooth 
in  a  mortar  or  bowl.  Beat  the  raw  yolks.  Add  them,  with 
the  flour  and  salt,  to  the  cooked  eggs.  Mix  all  together  and 
roll  into  balls  the  size  of  hickory-nuts.  Have  ready  a  sauce- 
pan of  salted  boiling  water ;  drop  the  balls  into  it  and  boil 
until  firm,  about  5  minutes. 

OYSTER    FORCE-MEAT  AND  BALLS. 

I  dozen  oysters,  4  ounces  of  bread-crumbs, 

\%  ounces  of  butter,  yz  saltspoon  of  mace, 

Cayenne  and  salt,  Chopped  parsley, 

I  egg-yolk,  Grated  rind  of  half  small  lemon, 

I  dessert-spoon  of  oyster-juice. 

Scald  the  oysters  in  their  own  juice  ;  cut  in  small  pieces ; 
mix  ;  roll  into  balls  ;  fry  in  butter  7  to  10  minutes,  or  poach 
in  water  5  to  6  minutes. 

FORCE-MEAT  BALLS  NO.  I. 

A  little  finely-chopped  veal,  1  yolk  of  egg, 

X  the  bulk  in  suet,  Cracker  or  bread-crumbs. 

Lemon-juice,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Mix  well  together.  Roll  in  balls  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut. 
Fry  2  or  3  minutes  in  hot  butter,  or  boil  in  salted  boiling 
water  or  stock  until  firm. 

FORCE-MEA  T  BALLS  NO.  II. 

Take  any  kind  of  cold  meat  or  chicken  and  ham,  chopped 
very  fine  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  chopped  parsley,  thyme, 


236  GOOD-LIVING. 

lemon-juice,  a  little  grated  peel,  a  bit  of  onion,  chopped  and 
fried.  Break  in  I  egg ;  sprinkle  with  flour.  Roll  into  balls 
the  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  and  fry  in  hot  butter,  or  as  above. 


GARNISHES  FOR  CLEAR  SOUPS. 

Quenelles. 

Croutons, 

Force-meat  balls. 

Poached  eggs,  1  to  each  person. 

Lemon,  1  slice  to  each  person. 

Yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  I  for  each  person. 

Noodles,  French,  German,  or  Swedish. 

Sausages,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  fried. 

Macaroni,  Vermicelli,  and  Italian  pastes. 

Arrow-root,  corn-starch,  sago,  tapioca,  rice. 

Mixed  vegetables,  sliced  fine,  and  stewed  in  butter. 

For  a  light-bodied  soup,  a  few  spoonfuls  of  stewed  tomatoes. 

CROUTONS  NO.  I. 

Slice  some  stale  bread.  Remove  the  crust.  Cut  in  small  dice. 
Heat  some  butter  in  a  pan  on  the  fire.  When  it  is  boiling, 
drop  in  the  bread.  Shake  frequently  till  light  golden-brown. 
The  butter  should  nearly  cover  the  bread.  When  done,  in 
about  1  minute,  remove  with  a  skimmer  to  brown  paper  in 
the  open  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  dry,  serve  on  a  cut 
paper  at  the  same  time  with  tomato  soup  or  any  other  pur£e. 

CROUTONS  NO.  II. 

Proceed  as  above,  using  lard  instead  of  butter.  Let  the 
lard  entirely  cover  the  toasts.  They  will  not  require  more 
than  1  or  2  minutes.  When  pale-yellow,  skim  out,  dry,  and 
serve  as  above.  These  are  much  prettier  in  color  than  the 
croutons  fried  in  butter.  N.  B. — The  lard  must  be  boiling. 
(See  General  Directions  for  Frying.) 


FRENCH  NOODLES.  2$f 

FANCY  CROUTONS. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  thin  |-inch  slices  ;  stamp  out  any 
shape,  according  to  fancy — diamonds,  rings,  etc.,  etc.  Fry 
these  as  directed  for  Croutons  No.  2,  and  use  as  a  garnish 
for  minces,  ragouts,  stewed  kidneys,  sweetbreads,  fish,  etc., 
etc.  To  make  a  border  of  these  croutons,  dip  one  side  of 
each  in  white-of-egg  mixed  with  a  pinch  of  flour,  to  make  it 
adhere  to  the  edge  of  the  dish,  and  arrange  them  one  next 
to  the  other,  according  to  taste.  These  croutons  for  gar- 
nishing may  also  be  cut  in  cubes  i^-  inches  by  2\  inches  long. 

FRIED  BREAD-CRUMBS  FOR  GAME,  ETC. 

Cut  the  bread  into  thin  slices  ;  place  these  in  a  cool  oven 
with  the  door  open  overnight,  if  you  have  time.  When 
thoroughly  dry  and  crisp,  but  not  brown,  roll  them  to  a  fine 
crumb.  Bring  some  lard  gradually  to  a  boil  in  the  frying- 
pan.  When  you  are  sure  it  is  boiling  (see  General  Directions 
for  Frying),  throw  in  the  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly  till  golden- 
brown.  Do  not  let  them  darken  or  burn.  When  done,  skim 
out  on  a  sieve  ;  set  in  the  open  oven,  and  when  dry,  serve. 
Very  nice  to  serve  in  small  heaps  around  grouse  or  other 
game. 

FRENCH  NOODLES. 

NOUILLES. 

I  pint  of  flour,  6  yolks  of  eggs, 

Salt  and  pepper,  2  whites  of  eggs, 

Grated  nutmeg,  Chopped  parsley. 

Mix  all  together  with  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  firm 
paste.  Flour  the  board  and  roll  very  thin.  Roll  this  paste 
up  like  a  sheet  of  music.  Now  cut  it  in  strips  -§-  of  an  inch 
wide.  Flour  these  to  prevent  sticking  together.  Drop  a 
few  at  a  time  into  salted  boiling  water  or  boiling  broth. 
Cook  30  minutes.     Drain  and  add  to  the  soup. 


238  GOOD-LIVING. 

GERMAN  NOODLES. 

2  eggs,  Flour  for  paste. 

Beat  the  eggs  well  and  work  in  flour  to  make  a  firm  paste ; 
knead  well ;  divide  into  two  parts.  Roll  each  out  thin  and 
leave  it  to  dry  for  a  little  while  without  hardening.  Roll  it 
up  and  cut  into  small  pieces  the  size  of  a  large  pea.  Scatter 
them  in  boiling  salted  water.  When  done  through,  drain 
and  throw  into  your  boiling  soup.     Simmer  for  15  minutes. 

SWEDISH  NOODLES. 

Beat  up  1  egg  with  a  pinch  of  salt  until  it  froths ;  then 
work  in  as  much  sifted  flour  as  it  will  take  up  (about  3  table- 
spoonfuls).  Knead  it  until  it  becomes  a  firm,  smooth,  elastic 
paste.  Then  roll  it  out  on  a  slightly  floured  board  until  as 
thin  as  writing-paper.  When  it  is  as  thin  as  possible,  slip 
under  the  sheet  of  paste  a  smooth,  slightly- floured  cloth. 
Cover  the  paste  likewise.  This  enables  you  to  roll  it  still 
thinner.  Now  cut  the  paste  into  rounds  with  a  thimble  or 
something  equally  small.  The  paste  should  be  folded,  so 
that  2  discs  may  be  cut  at  a  time.  Have  ready  on  the  fire 
a  saucepan  of  deep  boiling  lard.  When  you  are  certain  that 
it  is  boiling,  drop  in  the  discs  of  paste.  They  will  immedi- 
ately swell  into  golden  balls,  requiring  not  more  than  a 
minute  to  color.  Skim  them  out ;  drain  on  brown  paper, 
and  add  to  the  soup. 

HAM  FORCE-MEA  T. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  ham,  chopped  fine,  I  pint  of  milk, 

}i  li     of  stale  bread-crumbs,  Yolks  of  3  eggs, 

1  heaping  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  %  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  teaspoon  French  (or  English  mixed)  mustard,  y&        "         cayenne. 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil ;  add  the  bread-crumbs,  and  stir 
until  it  thickens  ;  remove  from  the  fire ;  then  add  the  yolks 
of  eggs  ;  add  all  other  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Set  aside  to 
cool. 


MUSHROOM  DRESSING.  239 

Use  as  stuffing  for  meats  or  poultry  ;  it  is  especially  recom- 
mended for  veal.  Or,  when  cold  and  firm,  form  into  balls ; 
roll  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs  and  fry  like  croquettes.  A 
good  relish,  in  this  form,  for  breakfast. 

CHESTNUT  DRESSING  NO.  I. 

1  pint  of  large  chestnuts,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  Pepper. 

Roast  the  chestnuts.  When  done,  remove  the  shells  and 
skins,  and  mash.  Add  the  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  mix  and 
fill  the  craws  of  2  moderate-sized  chickens. 

SAGE  STUFFING  FOR  GEESE  OR    TAME  DUCKS. 

1  pint  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter, 

2  teaspoons  of  powdered  sage,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  ^  teaspoon  of  black  pepper, 

1  teaspoon  of  powdered  sweet  marjoram. 

Mix  all  together  and  moisten  with  the  butter.  It  is  then 
ready  for  use. 

POTATO  DRESSING. 

2  cups  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  4  tablespoons  of  cream, 

1  teaspoon  of  grated  onion,  or  juice,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

X       "  "  black  pepper,  I  "  "  butter, 

1         "         "  salt,  Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Mix  thoroughly.     Use  for  tame  ducks  and  geese. 

CHESTNUT  DRESSING  NO.  II. 

Roasted  chestnuts,  sausage-meat  and  any  cold  meat,  such 
as  chicken  or  veal,  chopped  very  fine.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  add  butter.     Use  for  chicken  or  turkey. 

MUSHROOM  DRESSING. 

Mushrooms,  calf's  liver,  pork,  parsley,  chives,  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  all  minced  together  very  fine  and  stirred  over 
the  fire  for  5  minutes. 


24O  GOOD-LIVING. 

BREAD-CRUMB  DRESSING  FOR  ROASTED 
POULTRY. 

Dried  bread-crumbs  fried  in  butter,  parsley  chopped  fine, 
grated  onion,  pepper,  salt,  the  liver  of  the  turkey  chapped,  a 
pinch  of  thyme.  To  this  can  be  added  a  few  small  oysters 
browned  in  hot  butter.     Recommended. 

SWEET-POTATO  DRESSING  FOR   TURKEY. 

A  turkey  may  be  stuffed  with  a  Puree  of  Mashed  Sweet 
Potatoes  (see  receipt). 

SAGE  DRESSEVG  FOR  TURKEYS,  FOWLS,  GEESE, 
ETC. 

2  onions,  chopped  very  fine,  fried  i^butter,  8  sage  leaves, 

5  ounces  bread-crumbs,  soaked  and  squeezed  dry,  i  ounce  of  butter, 

Minced  salt  pork  (a  little),  I  egg, 

Chopped  celery,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Mix  thoroughly  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

SWEET-HERB  DRESSING  FOR   VEAL. 

Powdered  thyme,  summer  savory,  etc.,  2  cups  of  bread-crumbs, 

l/2,  grated  lemon-rind,  )/z  teaspoon  made  mustard, 

A  squeeze  of  lemon-juice,  Pepper  and  salt, 

^  cup  chopped  ham,  I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley. 

Mix  thoroughly;  it  is  now  ready  for  use. 
OYSTER  DRESSING  FOR  BOILED  POULTRY. 

25  oysters,  1  teaspoon  of  sweet  marjoram, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  "  "  salt, 

I  "  "  butter,  Pepper  to  taste, 

1  quart  of  stale  bread-crumbs. 

This  will  make  sufficient  dressing  for  a  large  turkey  or 
2  good-sized  chickens. 

Drain  the  oysters  and  feel  that  no  shell  or  grit  remains  in 
them.  Melt  the  butter  and  then  mix  all  the  ingredients  well 
together  and  use.     Serve  with  oyster  sauce. 


PASTRY   CRO&TONS.  24 1 

SAUSAGE  DRESSING  FOR  TURKEY-, 

The  liver  of  the  turkey,  sausage-meat,  parsley,  chives,  salt, 
pepper,  and  pork  minced  fine.  Truffles  are  a  great  addition 
to  this  last. 

FRIED  PARSLEY. 

Parsley,  Lard  or  sweet  drippings. 

Wash,  pick,  and  thoroughly  dry  handsome,  full  sprigs  of 
parsley.  Bring  the  lard  to  a  boil.  Test  it  to  be  certain  that 
it  is  ready  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  Lay  the 
parsley  in  the  frying-basket  and  plunge  it  for  about  I  minute 
(perhaps  less)  into  the  lard,  which  should  be  deep  enough  to 
cover  it.  It  should  be  crisped  without  blackening.  Remove 
the  basket ;  drain,  and  set  it  before  the  fire  or  in  the  open  oven 
for  a  few  minutes  to  dry.  This  should  always  be  served  in  a 
large  bunch  in  the  centre  of  a  dish  of  croquettes,  lobster 
chops,  fried  smelts  ;  indeed  with  any  thing  that  is  dipped 
and  fried.  In  this  way  the  same  lard  is  used  for  the  parsley 
when  the  other  frying  is  finished,  and  is  really  no  trouble. 

TO  MIX  ENGLISH  MUSTARD. 

Mustard  flour,  Boiling  water, 

Vinegar,  Salt  and  sugar. 

Put  the  mustard  in  a  cup ;  pour  upon  it  a  few  drops  of 
boiling  water  and  mix  rapidly  to  a  stiff  paste.  Add  a  few 
drops  of  vinegar  to  thin  it ;  a  good  pinch  of  sugar,  and  a 
little  salt.  This  will  be  found  to  be  a  decided  improvement 
on  the  usual  method  of  mixing  mustard. 

PASTRY  CROUTONS. 

Roll  out  Puff  Paste  or  Flaky  Crust  \  of  an  inch  thick. 
Cut  into  diamonds  about  3  inches  long.  Bake.  Use  as 
garnish  for  stewed  sweetbreads,  etc.,  etc. 


242  GOOD-LIVING. 

GLAZE. 

GLACE. 

Having  cleared  2  quarts  of  Consomme  (see  receipt),  set  it 
in  an  uncovered  stewpan  over  a  brisk  fire,  and  let  it  boil  and 
evaporate  until  reduced  to  a  sticky  and  stiff  consistency  ;  stir 
constantly  and  be  careful  that  it  does  not  blacken,  or  it  will 
become  bitter.  If  wanted  to  keep  on  hand,  take  a  larger 
quantity  than  the  above,  as  it  reduces  very  much,  and  when 
quite  thick  and  stiff,  put  it  into  an  earthenware  jar  which  can 
be  stood  in  hot  water  {bain-marie)  when  the  glaze  is  required 
for  use.  Good  for  glazing  hams,  tongues,  and  other  large 
pieces  of  meat. 

N.  B. — In  making  consomme  for  glaze,  omit  turnips,  which 
make  it  bitter. 


SAUCES. 

GENERAL   DIRECTIONS. 

BROWN  ROUX. 

ROUX    BRUN. 
I  tablespoon  of  flour,  i  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Melt  the  butter  slowly ;  sprinkle  in  the  flour  and  stir  it 
over  the  fire  until  every  particle  of  the  flour  is  uniformly 
browned.  The  fire  must  not  be  too  hot  after  the  first  few 
moments.  It  will  require  about  25  minutes.  Be  very  careful 
that  it  does  not  scorch,  as  this  gives  a  bitter  taste  to  the 
sauce.  The  butter  must  be  very  good,  and  there  should  be 
only  just  flour  enough  to  absorb  the  butter.  The  above 
quantity  is  sufficient  to  thicken  2  gills  of  sauce  or  I  pint  of 
soup.  The  sauce  to  be  thickened  should  be  strong  and  well 
flavored  with  herbs,  spices,  etc.,  boiled  down  until  very 
savory  (such  as  Consomme),  then  strained ;  while  boiling,  it 
should  be  stirred  into  the  roux  which  you  have  drawn  aside 
and  allowed  to  cool  slightly.  Pour  it  in  very  gradually,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Then  set  the  saucepan  again  where  it  will 
boil,  and  boil  for  3  or  4  minutes  longer,  or  until  the  sauce  is 
very  rich,  smooth,  and  as  thick  as  required.  It  is  of  the 
utmost  importance  to  learn  the  proper  mode  for  putting 
together  the  different  elements  of  these  Mother  Sauces 
[Sauces  Meres),  as  the  French  call  the  Espagnole,  Veloute, 
Bechamel,  and  Allemande.  They  are  the  foundation  of  all 
the  infinite  variety  of  fancy  sauces.  Proper  attention  is  not 
paid  in  our  country  to  the  importance  of  perfecting  this 
243 


244  GOOD-LIVING. 

branch  of  cookery,  which  is  of  immense  value  in  many  ways, 
and  pre-eminently;  in  the  matter  of  domestic  economy ;  a 
good  sauce  often  helping  a  very  meagre  and  commonplace 
dish  to  pass  for  something  quite  elegant. 

Of  course,  it  is  often  necessary  to  thicken  a  sauce  quickly 
at  the  time  of  serving.  In  this  case  the  proper  thing  to  use 
is  corn-starch,  arrow-root,  or  potato-flour  rubbed  smooth  with 
a  few  drops  of  cold  water,  and  stirred  into  the  sauce  while 
boiling,  stirring  quickly  all  the  time  and  boiling  for  about  3 
minutes,  until  transparent.  In  this  case  the  allowance  would 
be  about  2  medium  teaspoonfuls  of  corn-starch  to  the  pint ; 
it  is  very  easy  to  gauge  the  quantity  required  at  the  moment. 
The  disadvantage  of  this  latter  system  is,  that  after  a  certain 
amount  of  boiling,  or  in  re-heating,  the  sauce  becomes  thin 
again  and  must  be  thickened  anew.  The  proper  way,  there- 
fore, whenever  circumstances  allow,  is  to  use  the  roux  to 
thicken,  and  that,  if  possible,  at  the  beginning  of  the  prepara- 
tion of  the  sauce  (see,  for  example,  directions  for  Beef  a  la 
Mode,  etc.)  where  a  handsome  sauce  is  required.  A  dark, 
rich,  strong  gravy  or  "  jus "  (see  Brown  Gravy)  does  not 
require  thickening.  Never  under  any  circumstances  allow 
yourself  to  be  tempted  to  use  burnt  or  browned  flour  for 
thickening  sauces;  it  is  a  relic  of  barbarism,  almost  invariably 
practised  by  the  commonplace  Hibernian  cook,  and  every 
good  housekeeper  should  forbid  the  use  of  it.  How  many 
roast-beef  and  poultry  gravies  are  rendered  bitter  and  all  the 
true  flavor  ruined  by  this  wretched  practice !  Study  to 
make  good  sauces,  and  you  will  find  yourself  well  repaid  by 
the  results. 

WHITE  ROUX. 

ROUX  BLANC. 

The  same  rule  as  for  Brown  Roux  is  to  be  followed  for 
White  Roux,  excepting  that,  although  the  flour  must  be 
worked  into  the  butter  over  the  fire,  it  must  not  be  allowed 
to  color,  unless   it  be   very  slightly  for  certain  sauces,  such 


BLENDING  FOR   SAUCES  AND   SOUPS.  245 

as  the  Velout6  or  Blonde,  which  should  be  pale  yellow.  The 
White  Roux  is  used  for  all  white  sauces,  such  as  Bechamel, 
Cream,  etc.  The  roux,  be  it  White  or  Brown,  may  be 
made  in  larger  quantities,  and  set  away  in  glass  or  earthen- 
ware jars,  where  it  will  keep  as  much  as  6  months  in  a  cool 
place.  It  can  be  sprinkled  into  the  boiling  sauce,  and  stirred 
until  thick,  allowing  about  one  heaping  dessert-spoonful  to  I 
pint  of  sauce,  and  boiling  about  3  minutes  or  longer  until 
thick  enough.  Note. — All  the  sauces  containing  milk  or 
cream  should  be  mixed  in  a  saucepan  which  is  set  over 
another  in  which  is  boiling  water  {bain-marie).  Whenever  a 
sauce  of  whatsoever  kind  it  may  be,  is  to  be  kept  hot,  set  it 
also  au  bain-marie. 

COLORING  FOR  SA  UCES  OR  SOUPS. 

If  your  soup  or  sauce  is  not  of  a  satisfactory  color,  or  if 
the  flavor  is  harsh  or  unpleasing,  chop  up  one  onion,  put 
it  into  a  frying-pan  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and 
sprinkle  over  it  about  I  saltspoonful  of  sugar.  Stir  together 
constantly,  so  that  no  one  part  may  burn  before  all  has 
attained  a  beautiful,  clear,  reddish  brown.  Add  a  few  spoon- 
fuls of  the  sauce  or  soup  you  wish  to  improve  ;  stir  well  and 
pour  into  the  body  of  the  soup,  which  may  continue  to  boil 
after  this  any  time  required.      Strain  before  serving. 

BLENDING  FOR  SA  UCES  AND  SOUPS. 

LIAISON. 
3  yolks  of  eggs,  8  tablespoons  of  cream. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  bowl ;  add  the  cream.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve.  When  the  sauce  ^or  soup  boils,  put  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  it  into  the  eggs  and  cream,  stirring  quickly  ;  add 
a  little  more  by  degrees  ;  when  the  liaison  is  quite  smooth 
and  warmed  by  the  addition  of  the  liquid,  remove  the  sauce- 
pah  from  the  fire  and  pour  the  eggs  and  cream  carefully  into 
the  soup  or  sauce.     It  may  be  heated  again,  but  do  not  let  it 


246  GOOD-LIVING. 

boil  after  the  liaison  is  added,  or  it  will  curdle.  This  is  a 
great  addition  to  all  purees,  whether  soup  or  sauce.  The 
above  quantity  will  serve  for  2  quarts  of  soup  or  I  of  sauce. 

BROWN    SA  UCE. 

SAUCE    ESPAGNOLE. 

2  slices  of  lean  ham,  i  pound  of  lean  veal, 

6  gills  of  stock,  3  sprigs  of  parsley, 

Yz  bay-leaf,  3  sprigs  of  sweet  herbs,  thyme,  etc., 

6  chives  or  1  onion,  chopped,  3  shallots, 

2  whole  cloves,  1  blade  of  mace, 

2  gills  of  sherry,  Flour  and  butter. 

Cut  the  ham  and  veal  into  small  dice.  Put  them  into  a 
stewpan  with  2  gills  of  the  stock  and  simmer  gently  until  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan  is  covered  with  a  nice  glaze  ;  then 
add  about  one  gill  more  of  the  stock  and  stir  it  around  to 
detach  the  glaze  from  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Add  the  herbs, 
seasonings,  onions,  etc.,  and  the'  rest  of  the  stock  ;  cover  and 
simmer  gently  for  two  hours.  Strain  and  skim  off  all  fat. 
When  ready  to  use,  thicken  it  with  a  Brown  Roux  (see  receipt), 
allowing  about  1  tablespoonful  of  the  roux  to  1  pint  of  the 
gravy.  Remove  the  roux  from  the  fire.  Add  the  gravy  to 
it  when  the  former  is  boiling ;  stir  and  blend  perfectly 
smooth,  boiling  for  about  2  minutes.  Add  lastly  the  wine, 
and  a  little  cayenne  if  necessary. 

BROWN  GRAVY. 

JUS. 

2  pounds  shin  of  beef,  ^  pound  of  lean  ham, 

1  onion,  2  pints  of  water, 

Salt  and  black  pepper-corns  to  taste,  1  blade  of  mace, 

Bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  ^  large  carrot. 

l/z  head  of  celery. 

Cut  the  beef  and  ham  in  small  pieces.  Slice  the  vegetables. 
Take  a  jar  large  enough  to  hold  all  the  ingredients,  including 
water.      Arrange  in   layers  the  ham,  beef,   vegetables,  and 


BECHAMEL   SAUCE.  247 

seasonings  alternately  ;  pour  the  water  over  the  whole.  Set 
the  cover  on  the  jar  and  tie  it  so  that  the  steam  may  not 
escape.  Place  it  in  a  very  moderate  oven  and  let  it  bake 
from  6  to  8  hours.  Should  the  oven  be  hot,  less  time  will  be 
required,  say  about  5  hours.  Strain  off  the  gravy,  and  when 
cold,  skim  off  the  grease.  It  may  be  flavored  with  wine,  if 
necessary,  but  need  not  be  thickened  unless  particularly 
desired  ;  in  which  case,  use  very  little  corn-starch  blended 
with  cold  water,  and  boil  2  or  3  minutes.     Recommended. 

CREAM   SAUCE. 

SAUCE   A   LA   CREME. 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  2  gills  of  new  milk, 

1  very  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  y^  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Pepper  to  taste. 

Put  I  of  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  the  fire.  As  soon  as 
it  melts,  add  the  flour  ;  stir  till  blended.  Be  careful  not  to 
let  it  brown.  Add  the  boiling  milk,  by  degrees,  to  the  flour 
and  butter,  stirring  without  ceasing.  Boil  3  minutes. 
Remove  from  the  fire ;  add  salt,  white  pepper,  and  the  rest 
of  the  butter ;  stir  until  the  butter  melts,  and  serve  imme- 
diately. If  it  has  to  be  kept,  set  it  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  {bain-marie)  ;  leave  the  spoon  in  it,  and  every  now  and 
again  stir  it  down  or  the  top  will  form  a  scum.  Do  not  let  it 
boil  after  the  last  butter  is  added.  Cream  may  be  used 
instead  of  new  milk. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

SAUCE  BECHAMEL. 

}(  onion,  chopped,  2  ounces  of  raw  ham, 

Butter,  Stick  of  celery,  cut  fine, 

2  fresh  mushrooms,  %  carrot,  cut  fine, 

Bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  2  cloves, 

1  pint  of  Veloute  Sauce,  4  allspice, 

2  gills  of  rich  cream,  }4.  blade  of  mace. 

Stew  the  onion  very  gently  in  about  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  until  very  tender,  but  not  at  all  brown  ;  add  the  ham, 


248  GOOD-LIVING. 

vegetables,  herbs,  and  spices,  and  stew  gently  for  10  minutes, 
without  browning.  Then  pour  off  any  butter  that  may  not 
have  been  absorbed.  Add  the  Veloute  (see  receipt)  ;  stir 
it  in,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Boil  for  5  or  10  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Then  add  by  degrees,  a  very  little  at  a  time,  the 
cream,  which  should  be  rich,  sweet,  and  not  heated.  When  all 
the  cream  is  well  blended  with  the  sauce,  the  latter  should  be 
velvet-smooth,  rich,  and  delicious.  Strain,  and  serve  as  soon 
as  possible.  Use  for  the  preparation  of  this,  and  all  kindred 
sauces,  a  saucepan,  set  over  another  of  boiling  water  {bain- 
marie).  Serve  with  fish,  chicken,  sweetbreads,  etc.  The 
above  receipt  is  taken  from  a  good  French  authority,  that  of 
Urbain-Dubois.  A  simpler  adaptation  of  the  above  is  to  use 
a  good,  smooth  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt)  in  place  of  the 
velout£,  which  may  not  always  be  attainable. 

SA  UCE  ALLEMANDE. 

Make  exactly  the  same  as  Veloute  (see  receipt),  boiling  it 
down  both  before  and  after  thickening  until  strong  and  well 
flavored.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  bowl,  allowing  one 
more  than  for  the  veloute ;  mix  them  with  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  and  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut. 
When  the  sauce  is  boiling,  stir  it  very  gradually  into  the  eggs  ; 
then  replace  it  over  boiling  water  on  the  fire,  and  stir  it 
rapidly  for  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Be  careful 
not  to  let  it  curdle. 

POULETTE    SAUCE. 

SAUCE   POULETTE. 

Cream  Sauce,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

2  eggs,  1         "         "         "        chives, 

White  pepper,  Salt. 

Make  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt).  To  this  add  the  pars- 
ley and  chives,  or  substitute  for  the  latter  £  an  onion,  grated. 
When  it  is  boiling,  stir  it  briskly  into  the  eggs,  which  are 
ready,  beaten,  in  a  bowl.     Return  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 


PICKLE   SAUCE.  249 

stir  for  1  or  2  minutes,  being  very  careful  not  to  boil,  or  the 
eggs  will  curdle.  Serve  immediately.  If  this  sauce  has  to 
be  kept  standing,  do  not  add  the  eggs  until  the  last  moment 
before  serving. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

SAUCE  AU  CELERL 

Cut  the  celery  in  i-inch  lengths  ;  put  it  in  a  saucepan ; 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  about  30  minutes,  until  ten- 
der. Make  a  White  Roux  (see  receipt).  Strain  out  the 
celery;  blend  the  water  in  which  the  celery  was  boiled  with 
the  roux.  Set  it  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  perfectly  smooth 
and  thick  ;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  the  celery ;  set  it  over  boil- 
ing water  and  let  it  stew  gently  until  the  celery  begins  to  go 
to  pieces.  Or,  make  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt),  and  when 
the  celery  is  boiled  tender,  drain  and  stew  it,  as  described,  in 
the  cream  sauce.     Serve  with  boiled  turkey,  chicken,  etc. 

SA  UCE  DIABLE. 

White  Sauce,  Sherry, 

Celery-salt,  Cayenne, 

Curry-powder. 

Blend  about  \  teaspoonful  of  the  curry  with  a  little  of  the 
White  Sauce  (see  receipt),  then  stir  it  into  the  rest.  Add 
the  other  ingredients,  about  I  gill  of  wine,  and  1  saltspoon 
of  celery-salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  taste,  and  be  very 
careful  not  to  allow  any  one  flavor  to  predominate,  except 
that  the  cayenne  should  be  perceptible.  This  is  a  delicious 
sauce,  but  its  success  depends  much  upon  the  judicious  ad- 
mixture of  the  various  seasonings,  as  the  strength  of  curry- 
powder  and  celery-salt  vary  too  much  to  enable  one  to  fix 
the  exact  quantities.  Use  for  shell-fish,  chicken,  sweet- 
breads, etc. 

PICKLE  SAUCE. 

SAUCE  AUX  CORNICHONS. 

To  the  receipt  for  White  Sauce,  add  chopped  gherkins  or 
other  vinegar  (not  mustard)  pickles  before  serving. 


250  GOOD-LIVING. 

WHITE  SA  UCE. 

SAUCE    BLANCHE. 

3  ounces  of  butter,  i  ounce  of  flour, 

2  gills  of  water,  Pepper  and  salt. 

Put  2  ounces  of  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  ;  when  it  melts, 
add  the  flour.  Stir  for  I  minute  or  more,  but  do  not  brown. 
Then  add  by  degrees  the  boiling  water,  stirring  until  smooth, 
and  boiling  about  2  minutes.  If  not  perfectly  smooth,  pass 
it  through  a  sieve  ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  butter,  cut  in 
pieces.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  serve  immediately. 
This  makes  about  I  pint  of  sauce.  You  may  add  as  a  great 
improvement  a  little  lemon-juice  or  a  few  drops  of  vinegar. 
N.  B. — If  the  sauce  is  to  have  other  ingredients  added,  it  is 
best  to  have  it  very  thick  to  begin  with. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   AUX   CAPRES. 

To  the  receipt  for  White  Sauce,  add  three  teaspoonfuls  of 
French  capers  just  before  serving.    Serve  with  boiled  mutton. 

HARD-EGG  SAUCE. 

To  the  receipt  for  White  Sauce,  add  hard-boiled  eggs 
chopped  not  too  fine,  and  a  little  finely-chopped  parsley. 
Serve  with  boiled  fish  or  fowl. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   AU   BEURRE   D'ANCHOIS. 

To  the  receipt  for  White  Sauce,  add  anchovy  paste  to 
taste.     Serve  with  boiled  fish. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   HOMARD. 

To  I  pint  of  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt),  add  the  meat  of 
tail  and  claws  chopped  not  too  fine,  a  little  of  the  coral 


SAUCE    VELOUTE.  2%\ 

rubbed  smooth  for  coloring,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  If 
possible,  use  I  gill  of  cream  and  I  gill  of  boiling  water  or 
stock  in  blending  this  sauce,  as  it  will  make  it  much  richer 
and  smoother.  If  you  have  no  cream,  rub  up  the  coral  with 
I  tablespoonful  of  butter,  adding  it  just  before  serving. 

PARSLEY  CREAM  SAUCE. 

To  the  receipt  for  White  or  for  Cream  Sauce  add  I  heap- 
ing tablespoonful  of  finely-chopped  parsley. 

CAULIFLOWER  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   AUX    CHOUXFLEURS. 

Use  either  White  or  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipts),  adding  to 
it  the  flowerets  of  cauliflower  previously  boiled  tender. 
Serve  with  boiled  fowl,  veal  saute,  etc.,  etc. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   AUX   HUITRES. 

To  the  receipt  for  Cream  Sauce,  add  oysters.  In  this  case 
use  the  strained  juice  of  the  oysters  to  blend  the  flour  and 
butter,  adding  cream  or  rich  milk  to  make  up  the  quantity 
required.  It  must  be  boiling  when  added  to  the  butter 
and  flour.  The  oysters  must  be  scalded  in  their  own  juice 
until  almost  firm,  then  added  to  the  sauce  5  minutes  before 
it  is  to  be  served.  Season  with  celery-salt,  white  pepper, 
and  cayenne. 

SAUCE  VELOUTE. 

Proceed  as  for  White  Sauce  (see  receipt),  using  stock  in- 
stead of  water  to  blend  the  butter  and  flour,  which  last 
should  be  pale  yellow.  When  it  is  cooked,  remove  it  from 
the  fire  and  stir  it  into  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  or  3  eggs. 
If  you  are  by  any  misfortune  obliged  to  keep  it  hot  after 
the  eggs  are  added,  set  it  over  hot  water,  and  do  not  boil 


252  GOOD-LIVING. 

again,  or  it  will  curdle.  Add  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
lemon-juice  and  chopped  parsley.  A  little  grated  onion 
may  be  added  at  the  same  time  as  the  broth.  In  this  case 
it  is  safer  to  strain  the  sauce  before  serving,  to  avoid  the 
possibility  of  any  onion  remaining  in  it.  N.  B. — The  best 
stock  for  this  sauce  is  one  made  of  chicken  or  veal  and  a 
little  ham  ;  it  should  be  highly  flavored  and  not  too  dark- 
colored.  The  sauce,  when  ready  to  serve,  should  be  light 
yellow. 

MAITRE  U  HOTEL  BUTTER. 

BEURRE   MAITRE   D'HOTEL. 

Mix  together,  cold,  i  tablespoonful  each  of  butter  and 
very  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  I  teaspoonful  of  lemon- 
juice  ;  pepper  and  salt.  The  parsley  should  be  as  fine  as 
powder.  Work  all  well  together.  Use  for  broiled  steaks, 
fish,  etc.,  spreading  the  top  generously  with  it,  setting  in 
the  mouth  of  the  oven  2  or  3  minutes  until  melted. 

MAITRE  U HOTEL  SAUCE. 

SAUCE    MAITRE   D'HOTEL. 

Same  as  above,  melted  over  a  pan  of  boiling  water,  and 
served  in  a  sauce-boat.     Use  with  boiled  fish,  etc. 

SA  UCE  BEARNAISE. 

6  shallots,  or  bunch  of  chives,  ^  gill  of  vinegar. 

Chop  the  shallots,  chives  (or  small  bit  of  garlic) ;  put  it, 
with  the  vinegar,  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  on  one  corner 
of  the  range,  and  let  it  simmer  until  reduced  about  £,  then 
strain  it  and  set  aside. 

6  yolks  of  eggs,  Lemon-juice,  if  necessary, 

%  pound  of  butter,  Glaze, 

Pepper,  Grated  nutmeg. 

Boil  down  some  good  consomme1  to  a  glaze,  if  you  have 
none   already   prepared.     Break   the  yolks  of  eggs  into  a 


TERRAPIN  SAUCE.  253 

saucepan  which  will  stand  in  one  of  boiling  water  {bain- 
marie).  Add  the  butter,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nut- 
meg. Place  the  saucepan  of  eggs  in  the  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  and  stir  without  ceasing  until  the  eggs  begin  to 
thicken.  Do  not  allow  the  eggs  to  come  to  boiling  point, 
or  they  will  curdle.  When  beginning  to  thicken,  add  an 
equal  bulk  of  the  glaze  described,  a  very  little  at  a  time,  and 
stirring  constantly.  When  as  thick  as  very  rich  custard,  add 
the  vinegar  as  described  above.  If  not  acid  enough,  add  a 
squeeze  of  lemon-juice  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  but  very  care- 
fully. If  the  sauce  curdles,  or  is  too  thick,  add  a  few  drops 
of  cold  water  and  stir.  Serve  immediately  with  fish,  lobster, 
chops,  and  grills  of  all  sorts.  Beefsteak  broiled  and  served 
with  this  sauce  is  the  famous  dish  at  the  historic  Restaurant 
Henri  IV.  at  St.  Germain. 


TERRAPIN  SA  UCE. 

6  yolks  of  eggs,  boiled  very  hard,  I  gill  of  cream, 

X  pound  of  butter,  Salt  and  pepper, 

I  gill  of  sherry  Cayenne. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  powder ;  add  the  cream  (or  an 
equal  quantity  of  Cream  Sauce)  and  seasonings,  stirring  over 
the  fire  for  2  or  3  minutes  until  thoroughly  hot,  but  do  not 
boil.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  add  the  wine.  Add  what- 
ever meat  or  fish  you  wish  to  use  with  the  sauce.  Stand  it 
over  boiling  water  {bain-marie)  until  heated  through,  and 
serve.     This  sauce  is  excellent  with : 

Terrapin,  Beefsteak, 

Veal,  Lobster, 

Boiled  calf's  liver,  cut  in  dice,  Kidney, 

Cold  chicken,  cut  in  dice,  etc.,  etc. 

It  improves  very  much  if  prepared  in  the  morning,  and 
set  away  with  the  meat  in  it,  ready  to  be  served.  Half  an 
hour  before  it  is  required,  stand  the  dish  over  boiling  water. 
Be  sure  the  sauce  and  meat  become  thoroughly  heated 
through.     Serve  in  a  casserole. 


254  GOOD-LIVING. 

MUSHROOM  SAUCE  FOR  FILET  OF  BEEF. 

SAUCE   AUX    CHAMPIGNONS. 

2  gills  of  stock,  Lemon-juice, 

I  can  of  mushrooms,  I  tablespoon  of  butter, 

^  the  juice  of  a  can  of  mushrooms,  Pepper  and  salt, 

i  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour. 

Skim  the  stock,  and  put  it  and  the  mushroom-juice  in  a 
saucepan  on  the  fire.  Now  put  the  butter  and  flour  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan, and  stir  together  over  the  fire  until  well  browned 
(roux)  ;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  boiling  stock ; 
add  the  mushrooms,  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice,  salt,  and 
pepper ;  stew  for  five  minutes,  until  the  mushrooms  are  well 
heated  through.  Pour  part  of  this  sauce  over  the  filet. 
Serve  the  rest  in  a  sauce-boat. 

MADEIRA  SAUCE. 

SAUCE    MADERE. 

2  gills  of  Espagnole  or  Brown  Sauce,  I  gill  of  truffles,  cut  in  pieces, 

I  gill  of  sherry,  I    "     mushrooms,"    "       " 

2  gills  Tomato  Sauce. 

Boil  together  the  Tomato  and  Espagnole  (see  receipts) 
for  5  minutes.  Add  salt,  pepper  if  required,  the  mushrooms, 
and  truffles  ;  when  heated,  stir  in  the  wine,  and  serve.  This 
sauce  should  be  prepared  over  boiling  water  {bain-marie). 
Serve  with  filet  of  beef,  etc. 

SA  UCE  A  U  BEURRE  NOIR. 

X  pound  of  butter,  I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  3  tablespoons  of  vinegar. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan.  When  it  smokes,  and 
begins  to  brown,  add  the  vinegar  and  seasonings.  Let  all 
simmer  for  2  or  3  minutes,  until  of  a  good  dark  color ;  add 
the  parsley,  and  serve.  Use  with  calves'  brains,  lobster, 
eggs,  etc. 


TOMATO   SAUCE.  2$$ 

PLAIN  MELTED  BUTTER. 

Put  a  large  piece  of  best  butter  into  a  bowl.  Stand  this 
in  boiling  water  until  the  butter  rnelts  ;  pour  it  off  through 
a  fine  sieve,  leaving  in  the  bowl  any  sediment  there  may  be. 
Beat  into  it  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  serve  in  a  hot  sauce-boat. 
This  is  called  by  some  authorities  the  real  Sauce  Hollandaise ; 
but  on  this  point  opinions  differ. 

SA  UCE  HOLLANDAISE. 

3  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  Lemon-juice, 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  3  small  black  pepper-corns, 
Salt  and  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,         5  ounces  of  butter, 

I  teaspoon  of  Veloute. 

Boil  the  vinegar  with  the  pepper-corns  until  reduced  one 
half.  Strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Mix  in  a  saucepan  one 
half  of  the  butter  cut  into  small  pieces,  the  yolks  of  eggs,  a 
little  salt,  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  and  the  vinegar.  Set  the 
saucepan  over  boiling  water,  and  stir  unceasingly  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  it  is  perfectly  smooth.  Strain  it  into 
another  saucepan,  and  set  it  back  over  boiling  water  as 
before,  beating  it  steadily.  Add,  by  degrees,  the  remainder 
of  the  butter,  divided  in  bits,  and  the  Veloute  (which  may  be 
replaced  by  the  same  quantity  of  good  White  Sauce,  see  re- 
ceipt). When  the  sauce  is  very  light  aud  frothy,  remove 
from  the  fire,  squeeze  in  a  little  lemon-juice,  and  serve 
immediately  with  fish,  etc. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   TOMATE. 

6  large  tomatoes,  or  I  can,  2  chopped  onions, 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Bunch  of  parsley  and  thyme,  Pinch  of  sugar, 

I  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour. 

Peel  the  tomatoes,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  butter, 
thyme,  onions,  and  parsley  (and  I  clove  of  garlic  chopped 
and  fried  in  butter).     Set  over  boiling  water,  and  stew  very 


256  GOOD-LIVING. 

gently  for  3  hours.  Then  press  fruit  and  juice  all  through 
a  sieve,  rejecting  only  the  seeds  and  herbs.  Meanwhile, 
prepare  a  roux,  allowing  to  I  quart  of  sauce  I  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  2  of  flour,  stirred  together  over  the  fire  until 
light  golden-brown — no  darker,  or  the  color  of  the  sauce  will 
be  injured.  When  the  sauce  is  strained,  remove  the  roux 
from  the  fire ;  stir  in  the  sauce.  Return  it  to  the  fire. 
Stir  and  boil  3  to  5  minutes,  until  rich  and  thick.  Should 
the  sauce  be  already  quite  thick  with  the  pulp  of  the  toma- 
toes, use  less  thickening.  If  served  with  fricandeau,  veal 
saute,  or  filet  of  beef,  add  the  juices  of  the  meat  to  the 
sauce. 

TOM  A  TO  SA  UCE   WITH  WINE. 

Add  to  the  above  receipt,  sherry  to  taste.     Excellent. 

PARSLEY  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   PERSIL. 

Parsley,  chopped  fine,  Bread-crumbs, 

Salt  and  pepper  and  broth,  Vinegar. 

Rub  together  equal  quantities  of  parsley  and  bread- 
crumbs ;  moisten  with  broth  ;  add  seasoning,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  smooth  and  thoroughly  hot,  but  do  not  boil. 
Serve. 

SPANISH  RED-PEPPER  SA  UCE. 

SALSA   PIMIENTO   DULCE. 

2  sweet  red-peppers,  1  clove  of  garlic, 

1  gill  of  sweet  oil,  Salt  and  vinegar. 

Put  the  peppers  into  boiling  water  until  tender.  Be  care- 
ful that  all  the  seeds  are  removed.  Rub  them  to  a  paste 
with  the  garlic.  Moisten  with  a  little  water.  Heat  the  oil 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  stir  in  the  pepper.  Add 
seasonings.     This  is  a  good  sauce  in  which  to  warm  fish, 


SAUCE   SOUBISE.  2$f 

from  which  the  bones  have  been  removed,  or  with  beefsteak, 
chops,  etc. 

N.  B. — The  Spanish  sweet  peppers  are  put  up  in  tins ; 
obtainable  from  the  best  grocers  and  importers. 

SAUCE  ROBERT. 

2  ounces  of  butter,  3  onions,  sliced  fine, 

4  tablespoons  of  good  stock,  1  teaspoon  of  made  mustard, 

Juice  of  half  a  lemon,  1  "        "   vinegar, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  I  "        "    flour. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  when  the  butter  is  melted, 
fry  the  onions  brown,  being  careful  not  to  burn  them.  Add 
the  flour ;  shake  the  onions  in  it,  and  fry  again  for  a  few 
minutes.  Then  carefully  stir  in  the  stock  and  seasonings, 
and  boil  gently  for  10  minutes.  Skim.  Add  the  mustard, 
vinegar,  and  lemon-juice.  Boil  up  once,  and  serve  with 
steak,  pork  chops,  liver,  goose,  turkey,  etc.,  etc. 

SAUCE  POIVRADE. 

1  onion,  minced,  Butter, 

1  gill  of  vinegar,  1  pint  of  gravy  or  stock, 

Bunch  of  parsley,  3  cloves, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Butter  and  flour. 

Fry  the  onions  in  butter  until  yellow ;  add  the  vinegar ; 
boil  away  \,  leaving  f.  To  this  add  the  gravy  or  stock, 
parsley,  cloves,  pepper,  and  salt.  Boil  1  minute.  Add  about 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  rubbed  up  with  \  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  butter.  Stir  it  into  the  sauce  and  boil  for  10  minutes. 
Strain,  skim  ;  serve  with  all  kinds  of  broiled  or  saut6d  meats. 

SAUCE   SOUBISE. 

4  large  white  onions,  cut  in  quarters,  Cream  Sauce, 

Butter  and  pinch  of  sugar,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  onions  in  boiling  water  and  boil  about  20  minutes 
or  more  until  quite  tender.  Drain  thoroughly.  Put  them  in 
a  saucepan  with  1   large  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  let  the 


258  GOOD-LIVING. 

onions  stew  until  slightly  yellow :  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  I 
of  sugar  and  a  little  white  pepper.  When  the  onions  are 
quite  tender,  mash  them  through  a  coarse  sieve ;  add  an 
equal  bulk  of  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt),  and  serve 
immediately  with  filet  of  beef,  fricandeau,  beefsteak,  etc. 
The  juices  of  these  meats  should  be  stirred  into  the  Soubise, 
which  should  be  as  thick  as  very  rich  cream. 

SHAD-ROE  SAUCE. 

Wash  2  shad-roes  in  cold  water.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  with  boiling  water.  Put  the 
lid  on  and  simmer  1 5  minutes.  Drain ;  skin ;  mash  fine. 
Make  a  White  Sauce  (see  receipt) ;  add  the  roes  to  it  ;  mix 
well;  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice,  1  tablespoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  cayenne  and  salt ;  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve 
with  baked  or  boiled  shad. 

RAVIGOTE    SAUCE. 

SAUCE  RAVIGOTE. 

1  teaspoon  of  mushroom  catsup,  Butter,  size  of  an  egg, 

1         "         "  Chili  vinegar,  i  tablespoon  chopped  parsley, 

1         "         "  Reading  sauce,  3  tablespoons  of  cream, 

1  sprig  of  tarragon,  3         "        thick  White  Sauce, 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  yi  tablespoon  chopped  chervil. 

Scald  the  parsley ;  dry  and  chop  very  fine.  Have  ready 
the  White  Sauce  (see  receipt)  ;  add  all  the  other  ingredients  ; 
mix  and  serve  hot.  Heat  the  sauce  over  boiling  water 
(bain-marie). 

VINAIGRETTE. 

5  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  1  teaspoon  of  French  mustard, 

2  "         "    vinegar,  1         "         "    chervil,  chopped, 
Pepper  and  salt  to  taste,                      1         "         "    chives,         ' ' 

1  teaspoon  of  capers,  1         "         "    parsley, 

1  teaspoon  of  chopped  pickles. 

Mix  together  cold  and  use-  with  cold  bouilli,  sliced  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  etc.,  etc.  A  few  pieces  of  anchovy,  shredded, 
may  also  be  added. 


CHESTNUT  SAUCE.  259 

REMOULADE  SAUCE  (COLD). 

SAUCE    REMOULADE. 

3  hard-boiled  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  made  mustard, 

1  raw  yolk  of  egg,  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste, 

1  tablespoon  of  tarragon  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  of  olive-  oil. 

Boil  the  eggs  as  directed  (see  receipt).  When  cold, 
remove  the  shells  ;  set  aside  the  whites  to  use,  crumbed,  as 
a  garnish.  Put  the  yolks  in  a  mortar,  or  bowl,  and  mash 
perfectly  smooth.  Add  to  them  mustard,  seasonings,  ^  of 
the  vinegar,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Now  add,  drop  by  drop, 
the  oil,  turning  all  the  time,  then  the  yolk  of  the  raw  egg, 
and  when  this  is  thoroughly  worked  in,  add  the  rest  of  the 
vinegar.  The  sauce  is  now  ready  to  be  used  with  cold  meat, 
fish,  or  salad.  Mix  the  sauce  very  carefully  to  prevent 
curdling,  and  always  stir  one  way.  The  quantities  of  oil  and 
vinegar  may  be  slightly  increased  according  to  taste. 

GREEN  REMOULADE. 

REMOULADE    VERTE. 

Is  made  the  same  as  above,  being  colored  with  spinach  or 
parsley-juice. 

CHESTNUT    SAUCE. 

SAUCE  AUX  MARRONS. 

1  pint  of  large  roasted  chestnuts,  1  pint  of  boiling  stock, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  butter. 

When  the  nuts  are  roasted,  peel,  and  mash  fine.  Brown 
together  the  flour  and  butter  (see  roux) ;  remove  from  the 
fire ;  add  the  stock  and  nuts.  Stir.  Return  to  the  fire. 
Stir  and  boil  2  minutes.  Season.  Serve  with  broiled  din- 
donneau  (turkey-chick),  roast  turkey,  fricandeau,  etc 


26b  GOOD-LIVING. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE. 

SAUCE    AU    RAIFORT. 


3  eggs, 

I  cup  of  cream, 

Pinch  of  flour, 

Salt, 

Grated  horse-radish, 

Broth. 

Cover  the  horse-radish  with  broth.  Let  it  boil  a  few 
minutes  until  tender.  Rub  up  the  eggs  in  a  bowl  with 
cream  and  salt.  When  the  horse-radish  is  tender,  add  it 
gradually,  while  boiling,  to  the  eggs  and  cream,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Stir  over  the  fire  for  2  or  3  minutes  to  heat  and 
thicken,  but  do  not  boil,  or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Serve  with 
roast  meat  or  with  fish. 

MINT  SA  UCE. 

1  bunch  of  mint  (a  good  handful),  Pepper, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  sugar,  }4.  teaspoon  of  salt, 

4  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  4  tablespoons  of  boiling  water. 

Remove  the  leaves  and  tips  from  the  coarser  parts  of  the 
stalks ;  chop  all  the  best  part  as  fine  as  powder.  Put  it  in  a 
bowl,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water,  adding  the  sugar. 
Cover  closely  and  set  aside  until  cool,  about  15  minutes. 
Then  add  the  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Serve  very  cold 
with  roast  lamb.  The  sauce  should  be  thick  with  the 
chopped  mint :  it  is  usually  the  reverse,  vinegar  and  water. 

SAUCE  BLONDE. 

I  tablespoon  of  butter,  ^  pint  of  good  stock, 

1  "  "  flour,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Rub  together  the  flour  and  butter  over  the  fire  until  pale 
yellow,  but  be  careful  not  to  brown  it ;  add  the  boiling  stock 
by  degrees,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  3  minutes.  Season 
with  lemon-juice,  salt,  pepper,  and  serve.  If  for  chicken 
fricassee,  boiled  mutton,  boiled  turkey,  etc.,  use  the  liquor  in 
which  the  meat  or  chicken  has  cooked,  to  blend  the  sauce. 


TART  ARE   SAUCE.  26 1 

MA  YONNAISE  SA  UCE. 

SAUCE   MAYONNAISE. 

Yolk  of  1  egg  (in  summer  2  yolks),  Pepper  and  salt, 

2  gills  of  olive  oil  (perhaps  more),  Vinegar. 

In  the  list  of  ingredients  for  the  sauce  should  be  included 
a  large  stock  of  patience,  as,  without  it,  there  can  be  no  May- 
onnaise !  It  is  one  of  the  essentials,  also,  to  the  success  of  the 
same,  to  have  both  the  egg  and  oil  cold,  therefore  place  them 
in  the  ice-box  some  time  before  they  will  be  required.  In 
summer,  the  soup-plate  in  which  you  make  the  dressing 
should  be  stood  upon  cracked  ice  in  a  pan.  Having  every- 
thing ready  at  hand,  break  the  eggs,  carefully  separating 
whites  and  yolks.  Put  the  yolks  into  a  soup-plate  ;  pick  out 
the  germs,  which  you  reject.  Add  a  dash  of  white  pepper 
and  about  \  a  saltspoon  of  salt  to  the  egg,  and  work  it  around 
just  enough  to  thoroughly  mix ;  then  begin  with  the  oil, 
adding  it,  literally,  drop  by  drop,  stirring  with  a  steady,  not 
too  rapid  motion,  and  always  in  the  same  direction.  Work 
in  the  oil  in  this  way,  until  you  have  used  about  2  gills.  A 
practised  hand  will  manage  to  make  the  egg  hold  more  oil, 
by  adding,  whenever  there  is  the  slightest  symptom  of 
"  cracking,"  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  mixing  steadily  for  some 
time,  and  then  beginning  again  with  the  oil.  The  juice  of  a 
lemon  may  be  used  for  the  necessary  amount  of  acidity,  after 
the  dressing  is  made  as  above,  but  it  whitens  the  sauce. 
Serve  very  cold  with  salads,  etc. 

TART  ARE  SAUCE. 

SAUCE   TARTARE. 

2  gills  of  Mustard  Dressing,  Yolk  of  1  egg  may  be  added  if  desired, 

Tabasco  or  cayenne,  1  teaspoon  chopped  chives  or  %  of  a 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  small  onion,  grated  very  fine, 

1  teaspoon  of  capers  or  chopped  pickle. 

Having  made  the  Mustard  Dressing  (see  receipt),  work 
into  it  the  parsley,  chives,  and  capers ;  add  cayenne  or,  bet- 


262  GOOD-LIVING. 

ter  still,  tabasco,  and  salt  to  taste.  Set  on  the  ice.  Serve 
with  brain  fritters,  fried  smelt,  lobster  chops,  cold  fish,  etc., 
etc.     Delicious. 

CUCUMBER  SAUCE. 

SAUCE  AUX  CONCOMBRES. 

2  gills  of  Mustard  Dressing,  i  medium-sized  cucumber, 

Yolk  of  I  egg  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Having  made  the  Mustard  Dressing  (see  receipt),  add  to 
it  the  cucumber,  peeled  and  grated  or  chopped  very  fine. 
Set  on  ice  until  used.     Delicious. 

APPLE  SA  UCE  FOR  PORK  AND  GOOSE. 

PUREE  DE  POMMES. 

6  large,  tart  apples,  Soft  sugar  to  taste, 

Butter,  size  of  a  walnut,  Water. 

Pare,  core,  quarter  the  apples.  Throw  them  into  cold 
water  as  you  prepare  them.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching,  not  more  than  2  gills. 
Boil  very  gently,  uncovered,  for  about  40  minutes,  or  until 
the  apples  are  perfectly  soft.  Press  them  through  a  coarse 
sieve  ;   add  the  butter  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  serve. 

N.  B. — Be  careful  not  to  allow  the  sauce  to  scorch. 

MATELOTE  SAUCE  FOR  FLSH. 

SAUCE  MATELOTE. 

%  pint  Espagnole  or  Brown  Sauce,  3  onions, 

2  tablespoons  of  mushroom  catsup,  1  gill  of  port  wine, 

Bunch  of  sweet-herbs,  %,  bay-leaf, 

1  clove,  2  allspice, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  Lemon-juice  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Slice  and  fry  the  onions  brown,  but  do  not  burn.  Put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  Espagnole  (see  receipt),  catsup, 
wine,  and  1  gill  or  2  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  bones  of  the 
fish  have  boiled  (or  boiling  water).     Add  seasonings,  herbs, 


JELLY  SAUCE   FOR   VENLSON,    ETC.  263 

spices.  Simmer  10  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Strain 
through  a  fine  sieve ;  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  and  an- 
chovy sauce  to  taste.  Serve,  pouring  some  of  the  sauce 
over  the  fish  and  the  rest  in  a  boat.  This  is  an  especially 
good  sauce  for  baked  fish ;  may  also  be  used  with  boiled 
fish,  or  may  be  prepared  and  the  filets  of  fish  stewed  in  it 
for  about  5  minutes  or  more,  according  to  their  size.  The 
Espagnole  may  be  replaced  by  the  same  quantity  of  fish- 
broth  thickened  with  roux  (see  Brown  Roux). 

CRANBERR  Y  SA  UCE. 

Put  the  berries,  well  washed  and  picked  over,  in  a  sauce- 
pan with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching,  about  I 
gill  to  a  quart  of  fruit.  Stew  gently  over  a  moderate  fire. 
Stir  frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon,  mashing  the  fruit  as 
much  as  possible.  When  the  berries  are  all  mashed  and 
smooth  (about  20  minutes),  remove  the  saucepan  from  the 
fire,  and  stir  in  immediately  enough  sugar  to  sweeten  to 
taste.  Dissolve  the  sugar,  but  do  not  boil  again.  Rinse  a 
mould  with  cold  water ;  pour  in  the  fruit  and  set  away  to 
harden  ;  or  if  preferred,  press  the  fruit  through  a  coarse  sieve, 
rejecting  all  the  skins,  and  putting  the  smooth  sauce  into  a 
mould  as  above.     Serve  with  roast  turkey. 

JELLY  SAUCE  FOR  VENLSON,  ETC. 

Equal  quantities  of  butter,  currant-jelly,  and  port  or  ma- 
deira. Melt  the  butter  first,  then  add  the  jelly,  and  when  it 
is  melted,  the  wine.     Bring  to  boiling  point  and  serve. 

Or,  if  you  do  not  wish  to  use  so  much  wine,  put  the  jelly, 
a  large  piece  of  butter,  and  a  little  boiling  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan. When  this  comes  to  a  boil,  stir  in  a  little  corn-starch 
blended  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water.  Add  a  little  cayenne 
and  some  salt.  Boil  for  3  minutes ;  add  wine  to  taste ; 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  serve.  The  proportions  for  this 
last :  1  teaspoon  of  butter,  ^  tumbler  of  jelly,  I  gill  of  water, 
I  small  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch,  i  gill  of  wine. 


TIME-TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 


Hours. 

Minutes. 

1 
1 
1 

25  to  35 

To  boil  Jerusalem  artichokes — Put  on  in  boiling  water. 

15  to  20 

To  boil  French  globe  artichokes — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

about  30 

20  to  30 
10  to  15 
20  to  40 

String-beans,  uncovered — Put  on  in  salted  boiling  water 

Lima  beans — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

about  40 

1 
4 

Broccoli — Put  on  in  salted  boiling  water 

30 

Brussels  sprouts,  uncovered — Salted  boiling  water 

about  20 

Green  corn  ;  no  salt — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

20 

Cabbage,  young,  quartered — Salted  boiling  water 

30  to  45 

Cabbage,  cut  like  slaw — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

1 

20 

20  to  30 

20  about 

Carrots,  winter,  whole — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

Cauliflower — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

2 

30  to  40 
30  about 
20  to  30 
30,  about 

Celeriac  (celery-root),  sliced — Put  on  in  boiling  water. . 
Lentils — Soak  overnight ;  put  on  in  lukewarm  water . . . 

Okra — Put  on  in  boiling  water. 

30 

Onions,  young — Put  on  in  salted  boiling  water 

40  to  60 

Onions,  winter — Put  on  in  salted  boiling  water 

2 

more  or  less 

Onions,  large  Spanish — Boil  I  hour  ;  bake  i  hour 

Oyster-plant,  or  salsify — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

Green  peas,  uncovered — Put  on  in  plenty  of  boiling  water 
Parsnips — Soak  overnight  ;  put  on  in  lukewarm  water.. 

2 

I 

I 
I 

or  more 
about 
20  to  30 
15,  about 

Sorrel,  uncovered — Scald  ;  boil  only  until  wilted 

Spinach,  uncovered — Scald  ;  boil  only  until  wilted 

10  to  15 
10  to  15 

Samp — Soak  overnight  ;  boil  5  hours  ;  stew  1  hour.  . .. 
Tomatoes,  uncovered — Stew 

6 
3 

about 

Tomatoes — Baked  plain 

or  more 

Turnips,  young  or  sliced — Put  on  in  boiling  water  .... 
Turnips,  winter — Put  on  in  boiling  water 

1 

30 

30,  about 

VEGETABLES. 

GENERAL   REMARKS. 

As  we  are  particularly  favored  in  this  country  by  the 
bountiful  supply  and  variety  of  our  vegetables,  we  should 
take  very  great  care  in  their  preparation  in  order  to  do  them 
justice.  Always  procure  the  freshest  that  you  can.  If  by 
any  chance  you  are  obliged  to  use  those  which  have  been  in 
the  house  24  hours,  lay  them  in  cold  water  to  freshen  and 
revive  them  before  cooking.  The  time-table  for  vegetables 
has  been  most  carefully  prepared,  and  will  answer  most 
questions  that  are  asked  of  it.  There  is  to  be  added,  how- 
ever, one  thing  upon  which  too  great  stress  cannot  be  laid. 
When  the  vegetable  is  cooked  perfectly  tender  and  ready  to 
be  removed  from  the  fire,  drain  it  thoroughly.  Not  only 
allow  the  water  to  run  off,  but,  wherever  it  is  possible,  press 
the  water  out  in  the  colander ;  or,  when  this  is  not  possible, 
stand  the  colander  on  something  over  the  fire,  that  the  water 
may  be  driven  off  by  the  heat.  Resort  to"  any  device  that 
may  suggest  itself  to  you  rather  than  allow  your  vegetables 
to  remain  wet  and  soggy.  Any  amount  of  seasoning  that 
you  may  add  will  not  give  them  the  proper  taste  if  the  water 
from  the  boiling  is  allowed  to  remain  in  them. 

Certain  vegetables,  notably  string-beans,  green  peas, 
spinach,  sorrel,  and  Brussels  sprouts,  should  always  be 
boiled  uncovered,  to  preserve  the  freshness  of  their  color.  It 
will  be  found  less  necessary,  in  this  case,  to  use  soda  for  the 
same  purpose,  unless  the  water  is  very  hard.  Another 
important  rule  is  to  remove  the  vegetable  from  the  fire  and 
drain  it  the  moment  it  is  sufficiently  cooked.  Do  not  draw 
it  aside  and  let  it  stand  in  the  water,  or  it  will  be  quite 
spoiled. 

265 


266  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  BOIL  POT  A  TOES  (WINTER). 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   AU    NATUREL. 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  It  is  best  not  to  pare 
them  beforehand,  unless  it  to  be  to  remove  a  narrow  belt  of 
skin  all  around  the  potato.  However,  toward  the  end  of  the 
winter,  they  require  to  be  peeled  and  the  blemishes  removed. 
When  this  time  comes,  it  is  best  to  serve  them  prepared  ac- 
cording to  some  of  the  various  receipts  for  dressing  potatoes. 

Put  the  potatoes  into  an  iron  pot,  with  just  enough  well- 
salted  cold  water  to  cover  them.  Do  not  put  the  lid  on  the 
pot.  Let  them  boil  until  nearly  done,  25  to  30  minutes. 
Try  them  with  a  fork,  and  if  almost  tender  all  through,  pour 
off  all  but  about  I  gill  of  the  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot. 
Return  it  to  the  fire,  and  put  on  a  close  cover  ;  steam  until 
quite  done ;  then  remove  the  lid,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
allow  them  to  stand  a  few  minutes  on  the  fire  to  evaporate 
the  water.  They  should  be  dry  and  flaky.  If  not,  cover 
with  a  towel  or  flannel  folded  in  4,  and  let  stand  a  few 
minutes  longer.  Dish  carefully,  previously  peeling  if  neces- 
sary. It  will  require  about  35  minutes  for  the  entire  process 
for  potatoes  of  medium  size. 

The  water  in  which  unpeeled  potatoes  are  boiled  is  said  to 
be  poisonous,  and  an  excellent  means  of  destroying  green-fly 
on  rose-bushes. 

POTATOES  TO  SERVE   WITH  BOILED  EISH. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  AU  COURT  BOUILLON. 

Cut  the  potatoes  in  the  shape  of  large  olives.  Throw  them 
into  cold  water  as  you  trim  them.  If  you  boil  the  fish  in 
Fish  Stock  or  Court  Bouillon,  take  some  of  the  same  and 
boil  the  potatoes  in  it  15^  or  20  minutes,  until  tender.  When 
the  fish  is  dished,  drain,  salt,  and  dry  the  potatoes,  and 
arrange  them  tastefully  around  the  fish,  with  plenty  of 
parsley  as  a  garnish.     Serve  with  Hollandaise  Sauce. 


BAKED  POTATOES.  267 

TO  BOIL  NEW  POTATOES. 

These  should  never  be  peeled  with  a  knife.  Scrub  and 
rub  the  skin  until  clean.  Cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil 
rapidly  from  1 5  to  20  minutes  with  the  cover  on.  Drain  the 
potatoes;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  put  back. on  the  fire,  un- 
covered, for  a  few  minutes  to  dry.  Dish  in  a  folded  napkin, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE    EN   PUREE. 

6  or  seven  potatoes,  1  gill  of  cream, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Peel  and  boil  as  directed  for  Winter  Potatoes.  Slightly 
heat  the  cream,  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  When  the  potatoes 
are  cooked,  and  all  are  hot,  add  the  cream  to  the  potatoes 
and  mash  until  perfectly  smooth.  Be  generous  with  good 
butter.  Make  the  puree  very  soft,  and  if  you  want  it  par- 
ticularly perfect,  beat  it  hard  with  a  fork  or  egg-beater  a  few 
minutes  before  serving.     Serve  very  hot. 

POTATO    SNOW. 

POMMES   DE    TERRE   EN   NEIGE. 

Boil  as  directed  with  the  skins  on.  Then  peel  the  potatoes 
and  set  for  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire  to  dry  out,  having 
sprinkled  them  with  salt.  When  quite  dry,  rub  them 
through  a  colander.  Do  not  disturb  the  snow  as  it  drops,  or 
it  will  flatten.  This  same  preparation  may  be  put  into  a 
bake-dish  and  set  in  the  oven  until  slightly  browned. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Select  for  this  purpose  the  largest  and  smoothest.  Put 
them  in  the  oven,  opening  the  door  every  little  while,  taking 
each  one  in  a  coarse  cloth  and  pressing  it  all  over.  They 
will  require  about  I  hour. 


268  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  ROAST  POTATOES  WITH  BEEF. 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Peel  ;  wash  clean,  and 
lay  in  the  pan  with  the  beef  (mutton  or  veal)  about  I  hour 
before  the  meat  is  to  be  done.  Baste  frequently  ;  serve 
around  the  meat. 

COLD  BOILED  POTATOES. 

NOTE. — All  potatoes,  which  are  to  be  boiled  first  and  then 
dressed,  must  be  boiled  in  their  skins  and  set  away  to  get 
cold  with  their  skins  on.  This  applies  especially  to  potatoes 
to  be  used  in  hashes.  It  makes  a  wonderful  difference,  and 
should  be  observed  ;  the  potato  is  much  easier  to  cut  neatly, 
and  does  not  crumble  to  pieces  in  the  cooking.  For  potato 
salad,  the  potatoes  should  never  be  cooked  in  any  other  way. 

POTATOES  SAUTE. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   SAUTEES. 

Having  boiled  the  potatoes  and  set  them  away  with  their 
skins  on,  peel  them,  cutting  across  in  slices  about  ^  of  an 
inch  thick.  The  potatoes  used  should  be  rather  small. 
Heat  a  large  lump  of  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Lay  the  pota- 
toes in,  cover,  and  stew,  not  fry,  them  in  the  butter.  There 
must  be  enough  butter  for  every  slice  to  get  its  coating  and 
absorb  as  much  as  it  will.  Chop  a  tablespoonful  of  chervil 
and  one  of  parsley  as  fine  as  powder.  Stir  it  carefully  into 
the  potatoes  ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  when  they  have 
cooked  about  1 5  minutes,  serve.  They  should  not  be  allowed 
to  crisp  or  brown.  Shake  the  pan  from  time  to  time  to 
prevent  sticking  or  browning. 

New  potatoes  may  be  sauted  as  above,  but  whole. 

LYONNAISE  POTATOES, 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   A   LA   LYONNAISE. 

Having  boiled  the  potatoes  with  their  skins  on  and  left 
them  to  cool  in  the  same  way,  peel,  and  slice  about  |-  of  an 


POTATO  PUFF.  269 

inch  thick.  Put  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan. When  the  butter  melts,  throw  in  \  of  an  onion,  chopped 
fine.  Fry  it  light  golden-brown  ;  then  lay  in  the  potatoes  ; 
draw  the  pan  to  a  cooler  part  of  the  range,  and  let  the  pota- 
toes cook  in  the  butter  until  it  is  nearly  absorbed.  Then  let 
it  stand  on  the  hotter  part  of  the  fire  for  2  or  3  minutes  until 
the  edges  of  the  potatoes  are  very  slightly  browned.  Add 
pepper,  salt,  and  1  tablespoonful  each  of  parsley  and  chervil, 
chopped  as  fine  as  powder.  Mix  very  carefully  with  the 
potatoes  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  On  no  account  allow  the 
potatoes  to  fry  brown  or  crisp.  They  must  be  sauted,  not 
fried.  Or,  another  way  is  to  fry  half  an  onion  in  the  butter  ; 
remove  it ;  then  put  in  the  potatoes  and  finish  as  above 
directed.  This  is  even  more  delicate.  Serve  with  beefsteak, 
etc. 

FRIED  POTATO  HASH. 

Having  boiled  and  cooled  the  potatoes  with  their  skins 
on,  peel  and  chop,  not  too  fine.  Melt  in  a  frying-pan  a  large 
lump  of  sweet  drippings  or  butter,  or  both  mixed.  Quite  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  each  will  be  required  for  an  ordinary 
dish  of  potatoes.  When  the  butter  is  hot,  lay  in  the  pota- 
toes. Sprinkle  generously  with  pepper  and  salt.  Take  a 
long  knife,  and  every  minute  or  two  run  it  under  the  pota- 
toes, turning  them  up  from  the  bottom.  Be  careful  not  to 
mash  them.  Fry  until  the  edges  are  well  browned,  and 
serve. 

POTATO  puff: 

2  cups  of  hot  or  cold  mashed  potatoes,  i  tablespoon  of  butter, 

3  tablespoons  of  cream,  2  eggs, 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Put  the  potatoes  into  a  frying-pan,  adding  the  yolks  of 
eggs>  cream,  and  seasonings.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  well 
mixed  and  hot.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Stir  in  carefully 
the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Heap  on  a  greased  sheet 
of  tin,  or  in  gem-pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  well 
browned. 


270  GOOD-LIVING. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 

CROQUETTES   DE    POMMES   DE   TERRE. 

2  cups  of  mashed  potatoes,  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

I  teaspoon  of  grated  onion  or  juice,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

I  "       "  powdered  sweet-marjoram,  2  tablespoons  of  cream, 

I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut, 
Cayenne. 

Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream  ;  add  them  and  all  the  other 
ingredients  to  the  potatoes  ;  mix.  Put  into  a  saucepan  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  leaves  the  sides  of  the 
pan.  When  cold,  form  into  balls  or  long  croquettes  I  x  2\ 
inches.  Dip  first  in  egg,  then  in  bread-crumbs,  making  them 
very  smooth  and  even.  Set  away  in  the  ice-box  for  I  hour 
or  more.  Then  fry  golden-brown.  The  lard  should  be  deep 
enough  to  cover  them.  Use  a  frying-basket  (see  General 
Directions  for  Frying).  When  fried  light  golden-brown,  drain 
on  brown  paper  and  set  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When 
dry,  serve  as  a  garnish  for  braised  meat  of  any  kind,  or  as  a 
vegetable. 

NEW  ORLEANS  POTATOES. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   A   LA   CREOLE. 

Pare  and  cut  raw  potatoes  into  f-inch  dice.  Throw  them 
into  ice-water  for  30  minutes  to  1  hour.  Drain  very  dry. 
Have  ready  a  kettle  of  deep  lard.  When  you  are  sure  it  is 
really  boiling,  drop  in  the  potatoes  and  fry  golden  brown  4 
to  5  minutes  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  Lift  them 
out;  drain;  dry  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve.  A  £  onion  fried  first  in  the 
lard  gives  a  very  pleasant  flavor. 

POTATO  BALLS. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   EN   BOULETTES. 

5  medium-sized  potatoes,  Nutmeg,  cayenne,  salt, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Yolk  of  1  egg. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  directed  for  Mashed  Potatoes. 
While  hot,  add  the  other  ingredients.     Mix  well.     Roll  into 


POTATOES  A   LA   BRABANCONNE.  27 1 

balls,  making  the  surface  even  and  very  smooth.  Dip  in 
egg,  then  in  fine  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  boiling  lard. 
Use  a  frying-basket  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying). 
When  fried  gold-color,  drain ;  dry  on  brown  paper  in  the 
mouth  of  the  oven.  Dish  in  a  pyramid  on  a  folded  napkin 
or  cut  paper,  or  use  as  a  garnish  for  roasted  or  braised  filet, 
veal,  etc.,  etc. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   EN   SOUFFLE. 

2  cups  of  potatoes,  mashed  2  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  Salt, 

6  "  "  cream.  _  Pepper. 

Beat  the  the  potatoes  and  butter  until  smooth  and  light ; 
add  the  cream,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  salt.  Beat  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth  and  stir  them  in.  Heap  upon  a  tin  in  a  rough, 
uneven  mound  (neat,  but  jagged,  so  that  the  tips  and 
edges,  when  browned,  will  look  nicely),  and  set  in  the  oven 
until  well  browned ;  or  bake  in  a  dish  that  can  be  sent 
to  table.  Or,  use  this  same  mixture  to  make  an  edge  for 
fricassee  or  curry,  using  a  dish  which  can  go  both  in  the 
oven  and  to  the  table.  Note. — 2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated 
cheese  added  to  the  cream  is  a  great  improvement. 

POTATOES  A  LA  BRABANQONNE. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   A   LA   BRABANCONNE. 

6  potatoes,  mashed,  Pepper  and  salt, 

2  tablespoons  of  chopped  ham,  Bread-crumbs, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Butter, 

^  onion,  grated,  Cream. 

Prepare  the  Mashed  Potatoes  as  directed  (see  receipt),  add- 
ing cream,  butter,  etc.  To  this  add  the  ham,  parsley,  onion, 
pepper,  and  salt.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  fire-proof  dish  that 
can  be  sent  to  table.  Cover  the  potatoes  with  fine  bread- 
crumbs and  dots  of  butter,  and  bake  20  minutes,  until  the 
top  is  nicely  browned. 


272  GOOD-LIVING. 

FARCIED  POTATOES. 

POMMES    DE    TERRE    FARCIES. 

6  smooth,  medium-sized  potatoes,  3  teaspoons  of  butter, 

Salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  3  "  "  grated  cheese, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  3  "  "  cream, 

Milk  or  cream,  I  egg. 

Wash  and  bake  the  potatoes,  squeezing  often  during  the 
cooking.  Cut  an  end  off  of  each  one ;  scoop  out  the  soft 
inside  with  a  teaspoon.  Do  not  break  the  skins.  Set  aside 
the  empty  shells.  Mash  the  soft  potato  very  smooth ;  add 
the  butter,  cream,  parsley,  chopped  as  fine  as  powder ;  the 
salt,  pepper,  cheese,  and  a  good  dash  of  cayenne.  The  best 
cheese  for  this  purpose  is  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  of  grated 
Parmesan  and  Gruyere.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  saucepan 
with  enough  good  milk  or  cream  to  make  it  quite  soft.  Stir 
over  the  fire  until  scalding  hot.  Remove  and  stir  in  the  egg, 
which  has  been  slightly  beaten.  Fill  the  empty  potato-shells 
with  this.  Round  out  the  ends  ;  cover  the  ends  with  bread- 
crumbs, and  set  in  the  oven  until  nicely  browned,  about  15 
minutes. 

5  TE  WED  PO  TA  TOES. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   A   LA   POULETTE. 

12  potatoes,  small,  I  tablespoon  of  flour, 

1  cup  of  milk,  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 

Chopped  parsley,  1  egg, 

Pepper  and  salt. 

Having  previously  boiled  the  potatoes  with  their  skins  on 
and  set  away  to  cool  as  directed,  peel  and  cut  them  into  dice. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  with  pepper,  salt,  and  milk.  Bring  to  a 
boil,  then  stir  in  the  flour  blended  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
Stir  carefully,  and  put  on  one  side  where  the  potatoes  can 
stew  very  gently  for  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent 
scorching.  It  is  safest  to  cook  these  over  boiling  water 
(bain-marie).      Then   add    the    butter    and    finely-chopped 


POTATOES  A   LA   DIABLE.  2?$ 

parsley.  Stir  these  in.  When  the  butter  is  melted,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  egg,  which  has  been  slightly 
beaten.  Do  not  cook  after  the  egg  is  added.  Serve  in  a 
very  hot  dish  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

POTATOES  A   LA  D ELM  ON  ICO. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE   A   LA   DELMONICO. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  I  pint  of  milk, 

I  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  i  tablespoon  of  butter, 

Pepper  and  salt,  Bread-crumbs. 

Having  boiled  the  potatoes  and  allowed  them  to  cool  with 
their  skins  on,  slice  them  quite  thin.  Blend  together  over 
the  fire  the  butter  and  flour ;  draw  aside  and  stir  into  them 
the  boiling  milk.  Boil  3  minutes.  Put  the  potatoes  into  a 
bake-dish  ;  pour  the  sauce  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  over 
the  potatoes.  Cover  with  bread-crumbs  and  dots  of  butter, 
and  bake  15  minutes,  or  long  enough  to  heat  through 
thoroughly. 

PHILADELPHIA  POTATOES. 

Prepare  according  to  receipt  for  Potatoes  a  la  Delmonico, 
omitting  the  bread-crumbs  and  using  instead  an  egg  to  cover 
the  top.     Bake  as  directed. 

POTATOES  A  LA  DIABLE. 

POMMES   DE   TERRE  k  LA   DIABLE. 

Potatoes,  Lard, 

French  mustard,  Butter. 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  small  rounds  with  a  cutter.     Throw 

them  into   ice-cold   water.     Have   ready  some  boiling  lard 

deep   enough   to  cover  the  balls.     Dry   the   potatoes,  and 

when  the  lard  is  boiling,  fry  them,  shaking  now  and  again  to 

brown  evenly.     Use  a  f  rying-basket  if  possible.     If  not,  when 

the  potatoes  are  done  (about  5  minutes),  remove  them  with 
18 


274  GOOD-LIVING. 

a  skimmer  and  drain.  Rub  up  some  French  mustard  with  a 
large  lump  of  butter.  Put  it  with  the  potatoes  into  a  sauce- 
pan. Shake  for  a  few  moments,  then  turn  into  a  deep  dish 
with  the  butter,  and  serve. 

ERICA  SEED  POTATOES. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE,  SAUCE  BLANCHE. 

Having  boiled  a  dozen  medium-sized  potatoes  and  left 
them  to  cool  with  their  skins  on,  peel  and  cut  them  in  slices 
\  of  an  inch  thick.  Make  a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt). 
Stir  the  potatoes  carefully  into  this.  Set  over  boiling  water 
to  stew  for  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  scorching 
(use  a  farina-kettle) ;  then  stir  in  I  tablespoonful  of  finely- 
chopped  parsley,  the  same  of  chives,  and  serve  in  a  hot  dish. 

CREAM  POTATO  HASH. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  CREME. 

Prepare  as  above,  the  sauce  being  thickened  in  part  with 
some  of  the  potato  mashed.  Use  plenty  of  cream  and  butter. 
Omit  the  chives  and  parsley  if  preferred.  The  potatoes 
should  be  hashed,  or  cut  in  dice  of  about  \  of  an  inch,  and 
heated  in  the  sauce  as  directed. 

POTATOES  A   LA   DUG HESSE. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  DUCHESSE. 

Prepare  the  potatoes  as  directed  for  Potato  Souffl6, 
adding  pepper,  a  pinch  each  of  salt  and  sugar,  melted 
butter,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Make  the  mixture  into  flat  squares;  egg  the  tops  and 
bake  on  a  tin ;  placing  far  enough  apart  not  to  touch  each 
other.  Or,  spread  the  mixture  in  a  greased  baking-pan  to  the 
depth  of  1  inch.  Mark  the  top  neatly  with  the  point  of  the 
knife  ;  egg  it  over  and  brown  in  the  oven  ;  when  done,  cut  the 
cake  into  rectangular  pieces  of  even  size,  and  use  as  a  garnish 
for  roast  beef,  filet,  or  veal. 


POTATO   CHIPS.  275 

POTATOES  A  LA  BOURGEOISE. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  BOURGEOISE. 

10  potatoes,   medium,  Consomme  or  meat  gravy. 

3  leeks,  sliced  fine,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes  cut  in  4,  until  about  half  done, 
20  minutes  ;  drain  off  the  water  ;  cover  with  good  stock  or 
any  meat-juice  or  gravy  that  may  remain  from  stew  or  roast. 
Add  the  leeks,  pepper,  and  salt.  Cover  and  set  on  one  side 
of  the  range  where  they  will  stew  gently  for  30  minutes 
or  more,  until  the  potatoes  begin  to  melt  away  ;  then  serve. 
This  is  an  excellent  dish  for  family  luncheon.  The  leeks  may 
be  omitted. 

POTATOES  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  HOLLANDAISE. 

15  medium-sized  potatoes,  3  oz.  of  butter. 

Salt. 

Peel  the  potatoes.  Cover  them  with  cold  water  ;  add  salt, 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  When  boiled  perfectly  tender  (about  25 
minutes),  drain  and  put  into  a  saucepan  with  the  melted 
butter.  Cover  and  set  them  on  the  back  of  the  range  where 
they  will  not  boil.  Shake  them  from  time  to  time,  and 
when  they  have  absorbed  most  of  the  butter  and  are  almost 
ready  to  go  to  pieces,  serve  with  the  butter  that  remains  in 
the  saucepan,  or  with  Sauce  Hollandaise  (see  receipt). 

POTATO  CHIPS. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  FRITES. 

Slice  2  or  3  medium-sized  potatoes  just  as  thin  as  possible 
(there  is  a  plane  made  for  the  purpose).  As  you  slice,  throw 
them  into  a  bowl  of  water  and  ice.  Let  them  lie  in  the 
water  until  freezing  cold.  Meanwhile  have  a  kettle  of  lard, 
at  least  3  inches  deep,  on  the  fire.  Bring  it  gradually  to  a 
boil.  Test  it  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  When 
the  lard  is  ready,  lay  the  potatoes,  a  few  at  a  time,  in  a  clean 


276  GOOD-tTVING. 

cloth  ;  cover  and  pat  them  dry,  dropping  them  quickly  into 
the  lard,  as  they  must  not  lose  their  coldness  in  handling. 
Have  at  hand  a  skimmer  and  keep  the  slices  apart  in  the  lard 
while  they  are  cooking.  The  instant  they  are  light  yellow, 
skim  them  out  upon  a  colander  set  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven, 
putting  a  plate  under  to  catch  any  lard  that  may  drip. 
Sprinkle  evenly  with  salt.  Or  the  potatoes,  when  drained, 
may  be  laid  upon  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven. 
They  will  keep  for  some  time  in  a  dry  place,  but  must 
always  be  heated  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  before  serving. 
Never  let  them  brown.  If  properly  fried,  there  should  not 
be  an  atom  of  grease  upon  them.  This  is  the  Saratoga  way 
of  cooking  potato  chips.     Serve  with  beefsteak,  etc. 

JULIENNE  POTATOES. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  JULIENNE. 

Peel  and  cut  raw  potatoes  in  long,  thin  strips.  Fry  in 
boiling  lard  as  directed  for  Potato  Chips.  Serve  with 
beefsteak,     etc. 

POTATOES  A  LA  PARISIENNE. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  PARISIENNE. 

10  potatoes,  4  ounces  of  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper.  Chopped  parsley. 

Peel  the  raw  potatoes  and  cut  them  in  balls  with  a  scoop 
made  for  the  purpose.  Throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  cold 
water  as  you  cut  them.  Then  drain  them  and  put  into 
salted  boiling  water  for  5  minutes.  Drain  them  dry  and  put 
into  a  frying-pan  with  the  hot  butter.  Toss  them  until  each 
has  its  share  of  butter.  Set  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  until  the  potatoes  are  brown ;  then  sprinkle  them 
with  salt  and  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

Or,  having  cut  them  in  balls,  scalded  and  well  dried  as 
above,  throw  them  into  boiling  lard  2  inches  deep,  and  cook 
until  of  an  even  golden  brown ;  drain  on  brown  paper ; 
sprinkle  with   salt  and  serve. 


SWEET  POTATO  PUREE  WITH  TOMATO   SAUCE.      2JJ 
POT  A  TOES  A  LA  FRANgAISE. 

POMMES  DE  TERRE  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

Peel ;  cut  raw  in  length,  in  sections  like  an  orange  and  throw 
in  very  cold  water  ;  dry  in  a  towel  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  until 
gold  color.  Drain  on  brown  paper ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and 
serve  with  beefsteak,  etc. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

PATATES   DOUCES. 

Wash  the  potatoes,  and  put  them  in  the  oven.  From  time 
to  time  open  the  door,  and  with  a  cloth,  squeeze  them  until 
tender.     The  time  varies  with  the  size,  but  is  about  I  hour. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

PATATES  DOUCES  SAUTEES  AU  BEURRE. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  lengthwise  in  slices.  Fry  in  very 
hot  butter  till  brown.  Be  careful  not  to  burn.  Or,  saute 
them,  as  directed  for  white  potatoes. 

CARAMEL  SWEET  POTATOES. 

PATATES   DOUCES    AU    CARAMEL. 

Fry  as  above  directed  ;  while  frying,  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
This  serves  for  a  simple  dessert. 

SWEET  POTATO  PUREE    WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

PUREE   DE   PATATES   DOUCES,    SAUCE   TOMATE. 

,  Boil  the  potatoes,  peeled,  until  tender,  about  I  hour ;  or, 
still  better,  bake  them.  Either  way  will  do,  but  baking  in- 
creases their  sweetness.  When  soft,  remove  the  skin  and 
mash  them  as  directed  for  Sweet  Potato  Pur6e.     Add  a  large 


278  GOOD-LIVING. 

lump  of  butter,  and  enough  milk  to  make  the  puree  just  soft 
enough  to  hold  in  shape  when  heaped  in  a  mound.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Use  this  to  fill  the  centre  of  a  dish  of 
veal  cutlets,  saute  or  fried,  small  filets,  chops,  etc.,  etc.  Serve 
in  a  sauce-boat,  at  the  same  time,  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see 
receipt).  This  is  an  excellent  combination.  Sweet  potatoes 
prepared  in  this  way  make  a  very  good  substitute  for  Puree 
of  Chestnuts. 

SWEET  POTA  TOES  ROASTED   WITH  ME  A  T. 

Peel  and  wash  the  potatoes.  One  hour  before  the  joint  is 
to  be  served,  lay  the  potatoes  in  the  pan,  and  baste  from 
time  to  time  with  the  gravy.     Dish  around  the  meat,  and 


SWEET  POTATO  PUREE  BAKED. 

Sweet  potatoes,  1  egg, 

Milk,  Butter, 

Salt. 

Put  4  to  8  sweet  potatoes,  according  to  size,  into  the  oven 
to  bake,  squeezing  them  with  a  cloth  from  time  to  time  until 
perfectly  soft,  about  I  hour.  When  done,  peel ;  mash  through 
a  colander.  Add  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  the  larger 
the  better ;  milk  enough  to  make  the  pur£e  of  the  consist- 
ency of  soft  dough.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Butter  a  tin  pie- 
plate,  or  sheet  of  tin.  Arrange  the  pur£e  in  a  neat  mound. 
Beat  an  egg  slightly,  and  with  it  brush  over  the  puree.  Set 
in  the  oven  for  20  to  30  minutes,  or  until  a  good  brown  crust 
is  formed  over  the  top.  The  above  may  also  be  made  with 
boiled  sweet  potatoes,  but  baking  makes  them  sweeter.  Do 
not  spare  the  butter. 

BOILED  S  WEE  T  PO  TA  TOES. 

Wash  and  put  them  down  in  boiling  water,  boiling  about 
I  hour  or  more,  according  to  size.  This  vegetable  varies  so 
in  size  as  to  make  it  impossible  to  fix  the  time  exactly. 


BAKED    TOMATOES.  279 

FRIED  TOMA  TOES  WITH  CREAM. 

TOMATES   FRITES   A    LA    CREME. 

Cut  6  large  tomatoes  in  half,  without  peeling.  Lay  them, 
skin-side  downward,  in  a  pan,  in  which  you  have  melted  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  sweet  drippings  mixed. 
Fry  slowly  until  tender.  Three  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water  may  be  added  to  the  pan  at  first,  as  it  will  steam  off 
and  make  the  tomatoes  more  tender,  without  blackening 
them,  as  if  cooked  with  butter  alone.  When  tender,  remove 
the  tomatoes  to  a  hot  dish  ;  let  the  butter  brown  a  little,  with 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour  stirred  into  it.  When  brown,  draw 
aside  and  stir  into  it  \  pint  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  and 
blending  until  smooth.  Stir  and  boil  3  minutes,  then  pour 
this  over  the  tomatoes,  adding  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 
This  is  not  a  pretty  dish,  but  is  excellent.  If  the  top  of  the 
range  is  occupied,  the  pan  of  tomatoes  may  be  set  in  the 
oven,  with  equally  good  results. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

TOMATES   FARCIES. 

Select  medium-sized  smooth  tomatoes  for  this  purpose. 
Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end.  With  a  spoon  scoop  out  all 
the  seeds  and  centre,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  outer 
walls.  Drain  off  the  water  from  the  inside  that  has  been 
removed.  Take  sufficient  bread-crumbs  to  fill  the  cavities 
thus  made.  Chop  about  1  tablespoonful  of  parsley  very 
fine ;  mix  it  with  the  crumbs,  adding  plenty  of  salt  and  pep- 
per. Melt  a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan  ; 
stir  in  the  bread-crumbs  and  the  solid  part  of  the  tomato 
centres.  Stir  them  until  well  mixed,  5  minutes ;  then  fill 
the  tomatoes,  heaping  a  little  above  the  edge  ;  sprinkle  with 
bread-crumbs ;  put  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each ;  set  in  a 
baking-pan,  with  a  small  lump  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  1  hour  to  1  hour  and  15  minutes. 


28o  GOOD-LIVING. 

STUFFED  TOM  A  TOES  A  LA  REINE. 

TOMATES    FARCIES   A   LA    REINE. 

^  pound  of  white  meat,  chicken,  veal,  I  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 

or  lamb,  I  egg, 

Bulk  of  meat  in  bread-crumbs,  I  saltspoon  of  salt, 

I  heaping  tablespoon  of  chopped  pars-  Pinch  of  sugar, 

ley,  Cayenne  to  taste, 

I  heaping  tablespoon  of  chopped  ham,  I  onion,  grated, 
12  medium-sized  tomatoes. 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine ;  add  stale  bread-crumbs ;  then 
all  the  other  seasonings,  reserving  the  egg.  Cut  the  stem 
end  from  the  tomatoes ;  scoop  out  all  the  soft  part  with  a 
small  spoon,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  outer  walls. 
Drain  the  fruity  part  of  the  tomato  and  mix  it  with  the 
stuffing.  Chop  all  together  very  fine.  Have  the  empty 
tomatoes  in  a  tin  pan  with  a  small  lump  of  butter.  Put  a 
lump  of  butter  into  the  frying-pan,  and,  when  hot,  put  in  the 
dressing  and  stir  it  over  a  sharp  fire,  taking  care  not  to  burn. 
Remove  from  the  fire.  If  not  as  soft  as  a  very  thick  custard, 
add  a  little  broth.  When  slightly  cool,  beat  in  the  egg  and 
fill  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture.  Cover  the  tops  with 
bread-crumbs  and  dots  of  butter;  bake  about  30  minutes. 
Serve  as  a  separate  entree,  or  with  chicken  or  veal. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

TOMATES   FARCIES   A   L'ECARLATE. 

Having  prepared  the  tomatoes  as  directed  for  Stuffed 
Tomatoes  a  la  Reine,  make  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see 
receipt),  to  which  add  about  1  gill  of  sherry.  Serve  the 
tomatoes  neatly  dished  and  garnished,  with  the  sauce  in  a 
sauce-boat,  as  an  entree. 

TOMATOES  ROASTED   WITH  BEEF  OR  VEAL. 

Select  tomatoes  of  uniform  size.  Wash  ;  cut  out  the  stem 
end  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  and  place  in  the  pan  with 


TOMATOES  SCALLOPED.  28 1 

roasting  beef  or  veal  I  hour  before  the  meat  is  to  be  done. 
If  very  small,  allow  a  little  less  time.  Baste  frequently,  and 
dish  around  the  meat. 

STEWED   TOMATOES. 

Wash  the  tomatoes,  then  throw  boiling  water  over  them ; 
let  stand  for  5  minutes,  and  the  skins  will  slip  off  easily.  Cut 
off  the  stem  end ;  divide  in  2  or  4,  and  throw  into  a  china- 
lined  kettle.  Set  on  the  fire  uncovered.  In  about  an  hour, 
ladle  out  all  the  juice  and  set  it  aside  to  serve  for  soup  (see 
Tomato  Soup  or  Okra  Gumbo).  Add  to  this  I  onion  cut  in 
4.  Simmer  for  about  I  or  2  hours  longer.  They  must  cook 
very  slowly.  Now  drain  off  all  superfluous  juice  ;  add  a 
lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and,  if  the  tomatoes  are  very 
acid,  a  pinch  of  sugar ;  serve.  This  is  certainly  the  best  way 
to  stew  tomatoes,  but  is  rather  extravagant,  unless  at  the 
height  of  the  season,  as  it  takes  about  a  peck  of  tomatoes  to 
make  a  good  dishful  stewed.  After  cooking  2  hours,  be 
careful  not  to  let  them  cook  rapidly  or  scorch,  or  they  will 
acquire  a  bitterish  taste  from  the  seeds.  A  good  way  also 
is,  after  scalding -and  peeling  as  above,  to  put  them  in  a 
china-lined  kettle,  uncovered,  draining  off  after  the  first 
hour ;  add  a  good  handful  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  \  of  a 
chopped  onion,  pepper  and  salt.  The  bread-crumbs  being 
cooked  for  quite  an  hour  longer  with  the  tomatoes  absorb  a 
great  deal  of  the  superfluous  juice,  and  become  more  like  the 
fruit  itself  than  any  other  thickening.  The  bread-crumbs 
must  be  very  stale  and  dry.  The  usual  system  of  using 
flour  or  corn-starch  is  not  recommended.  When  ready  to 
serve,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 

TOMATOES  SCALLOPED. 

Scald  and  skin  enough  tomatoes  to  fill  a  quart  baking-dish. 
Lay  a  layer  of  these  tomatoes  in  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 
Cover  with  a  thick  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  dots  of  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt.     Another  layer  of  tomatoes  ;  then  finish 


282  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  top  with  a  second  layer  of  bread-crumbs  closely  packed, 
dotted  over  with  butter,  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Set  in  a  slow  oven  for  I  hour  to  I  hour  and  15  minutes, 
until  browned  and  baked  down.  As  tomatoes  are  about  90 
per  cent,  water,  they  must  always  be  steamed  off  in  cooking 
or  have  the  liquid  absorbed  in  some  way.  Canned  tomatoes 
may  be  cooked  according  to  the  above  receipt,  using  only 
the  solid  fruit,  and  cooking  about  45  minutes,  perhaps  less, 
in  a  quicker  oven  than  the  above. 

TO  MA  TOES  STUFFED   WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

TOMATES   FARCIES   AUX   CHAMPIGNONS. 

See  receipt  for  Braised  Filet  of  Beef  with  Farcied  Toma- 
toes. 

TOMATO  SOUFFLE. 

TOMATES  EN  SOUFFLE. 

Stew  down  the  tomatoes  as  directed,  draining  off  the 
liquid ;  press  the  fruit  through  a  coarse  sieve.  To  about  2 
gills  of  this  pulp  allow  3  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
apart ;  mix  the  yolks  with  the  pulp  ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt ;  then,  at  the  last  moment,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Fill  buttered  china  souffle-cases  with  the  mixture 
not  more  than  £  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  6  to  10 
minutes.  Or  heat  a  bake-dish  large  enough  to  hold  all  the 
souffle,  and  bake  it  in  a  very  quick  oven  for  about  10  to  15 
minutes.  Watch  carefully  and  serve  immediately.  For 
detailed  directions  for  baking,  see  Omelette  Souffle. 

TOM  A  TO-RICE. 

RIZ   AUX   TOMATES. 

Stew  the  tomatoes  as  directed  ;  press  through  a  coarse 
sieve.  To  about  2  gills  of  this  sauce  allow  I  gill  of  rice; 
wash  and  boil  20  minutes.     Drain  the  rice  thoroughly  and 


MUSHROOMS.  283 

mix  with  the  sauce,  adding  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar, 
if  the  tomatoes  are  acid.  Set  the  saucepan  on  one  side 
where  it  can  stew  gently,  uncovered,  for  15  or  20  minutes. 
Take  care  that  it  does  not  scorch.  Add  a  small  lump  of 
butter,  and  when  it  is  melted,  serve.  Do  not  stir  the  rice 
around  ;  lift  it  from  the  bottom  with  a  fork  to  mix  it.  If  the 
pulp  of  the  fruit  is  used  in  the  preparation  of  this  dish,  it 
will  be  found  to  be  much  richer  than  the  common  fashion 
of  using  the  juice  of  the  tomato  alone  for  the  purpose. 

TOMATOES  WITH  MACARONI. 

MACARONI   AUX   TOMATES. 

Prepare  according  to  the  receipt  for  Macaroni  a  la  Mila- 
naise,  omitting  the  ham  and  cheese. 

MUSHROOMS. 

GENERAL    REMARKS. 

It  is  of  primary  importance  in  the  choice  of  mushrooms  to 
beware  of  the  false  ones,  as  they  very  closely  resemble  the 
edible  ones.  Never  eat  those  that  grow  in  shady,  woody 
spots  ;  but  give  preference,  on  the  contrary,  to  those  that 
grow  in  the  broad  field  and  open  sunshine.  Gather  them  as 
soon  after  sunrise  as  possible.  They  should  be  snowy-white 
on  top,  and  pale-pink  in  the  gills  underneath,  if  very  young, 
but  becoming  from  brown  to  black  in  the  gills  as  the  day 
advances  and  they  grow  older.  It  is  no  detriment  to  them 
to  have  spread  open  ;  these  are  best  for  broiling,  while  the 
"  button  mushrooms  "  serve  for  other  ways  of  cooking.  The 
safest  mushrooms  are  those  that  are  raised  in  mushroom- 
houses.  Those  in  the  field  should  only  be  culled  by  persons 
who  know  and  understand  them.  The  skin  of  a  good  mush- 
room should  peel  off  easily  ;  yet  all  mushrooms  that  do  peel 
easily  are  not  necessarily  good  ;  on  the  other  hand,  there  are 
some  very  terrible-looking  ones,  which  are  in  reality  perfectly 


284  GOOD-LIVING. 

innocuous,  such  as  the  morille,  which  is  much  used  in  France, 
and  often  dried.  There  are  also  "  puff  balls,"  which,  though 
very  alarming  in  appearance,  make  perfectly  good  and  safe 
eating.  But  the  point  of  the  whole  thing  is  this  :  do  not 
trust  your  own  judgment  about  them  unless  you  have  had 
experience.  The  only  test  that  appears  to  exist  is  the  old- 
fashioned  one  of  the  silver  spoon,  which,  it  is  said,  will  dis- 
color in  cooking  if  the  mushrooms  are  poisonous. 


BROILED  MUSHROOMS. 

CHAMPIGNONS    GRILLES. 

Select  the  largest  mushrooms  that  are  to  be  had.  Peel. 
Cut  the  stalks  •£•  an  inch  from  the  tops.  Baste  well  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  lightly  with  pepper  and  salt.  Heat 
the  broiler  very  hot  ;  lay  the  mushrooms  upon  it  with  the 
upper  side  down  ;  close  it  carefully,  that  the  mushrooms  may 
not  be  broken,  and  broil  them  over  a  clear  fire,  turning  the 
broiler  first  on  one  side,  then  on  the  other.  As  soon  as  ten- 
der, which  will  be  in  about  5  minutes,  open  the  broiler, 
remove  the  mushrooms  carefully  to  trimmed  and  well-but- 
tered slices  of  toast,  or  thin  bread  fried  in  butter.  Moisten 
with  melted  butter,  and  serve. 

FRIED  MUSHROOMS. 

CHAMPIGNONS   SAUTES   A   L'HUILE. 

Peel  large,  hot-house  mushrooms,  measuring  4  to  6  inches 
across,  and  cut  the  stalks  close.  Have  ready  in  a  frying-pan 
some  sweet  oil,  pepper,  and  salt.  When  hot,  put  in  the 
mushrooms  and  fry  until  thoroughly  heated,  about  5  min- 
utes, perhaps  less.  Too  much  cooking  will  toughen  them. 
Serve  on  neatly-trimmed  and  buttered  slices  of  thin  toast, 
putting  1  teaspoonful  of  wine,  white  or  sherry,  on  each 
mushroom. 


PLAIN  STEWED  MUSHROOMS.  28$ 

MUSHROOMS  STEWED  WITH  CREAM. 

CHAMPIGNONS    SAUTES   A   LA   CREME. 

I  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms,  I  tablespoon  of  butter, 

Flour,  2  tablespoons  of  thick  cream, 

1  egg-yolk,  1  tablespoon  of  sherry, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Peel  the  mushrooms  and  scrape  the  stems.  Cut  off  the 
earthy  ends  of  the  stalks.  Wash  in  cold  water.  Put  into  a 
china-lined  saucepan.  Cut  the  butter  into  4  parts  ;  roll  each 
in  flour,  and  put  into  the  saucepan.  Simmer  for  1 5  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally  ;  then  add  the  cream,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolk 
of  egg  beaten  with  the  sherry.  Serve  immediately  in  a  deep, 
hot  dish. 

TO  STEW  CANNED  MUSHROOMS. 

1  can  of  mushrooms,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
Yolk  of  I  egg,  1  "  "  sherry, 

2  gills  of  milk,  or  cream,  1  "  "   flour, 
Salt,  Pepper. 

Drain  the  mushrooms.  Put  the  butter  into  a  china-lined 
saucepan  ;  when  melted,  stir  in  the  flour  ;  rub  smooth  ;  add 
the  boiling  milk  and  stir  until  it  boils  2  minutes.  Add  the 
mushrooms,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  stir  only  until  thoroughly 
heated.  Remove  from  the  fire  ;  stir  in  the  egg  beaten  with 
the  wine  ;  then  serve  on  neatly  trimmed  and  buttered  slices 
of  toaet,  or  on  thin  slices  of  bread  fried  in  butter.  In  cook- 
ing canned  mushrooms,  do  not  boil  them,  as  they  are  already 
cooked,  and  only  require  to  be  heated. 

PLAIN  STEWED  MUSHROOMS. 

CHAMPIGNONS    SAUTES,   NATURE. 

1  pint  of  fresh  mushrooms,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

Salt  and  pepper,  Flour  or  corn-starch. 

Peel  the  tops  of  the  mushrooms  ;  scrape  the  stalks,  cutting 
off  the  earthy  ends.     Throw  them  in  cold  water  as  you  peel 


286  GOOD-LIVING. 

them.  Take  them  out  of  the  water  with  your  hands,  letting 
all  the  water  drip  from  them,  but  do  not  dry  them.  Put 
them  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Rub  the  butter 
up  with  about  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  or  a  little  less  corn- 
starch ;  when  the  mushrooms  begin  to  stew,  stir  in  the 
butter ;  stew  gently  for  about  1 5  minutes,  if  you  have  used 
flour ;  if  you  use  corn-starch,  add  it  3  minutes  before  the 
mushrooms  are  to  be  served.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
serve. 

BAKED  MUSHROOMS. 

Select  large  mushrooms.  Peel.  Cut  off  the  stalks  half  an 
inch  from  the  top.  Place  them  with  the  upper  side  down  in 
a  pie-dish  ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  put  a  small  piece 
of  butter  on  each.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  to  15  minutes, 
until  tender,  basting  frequently  with  melted  butter.  Add  a 
few  drops  of  lemon-juice.     Serve  hot  on  the  same  dish. 

MUSHROOMS  A  LA  BORD-ELAISE. 

CHAMPIGNONS   A   LA   BORDELAISE. 

I  pound  of  best  mushrooms,  I  tablespoon  of  oil, 

12  whole  pepper-corns,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Peel  the  mushrooms  ;  scrape  the  stalks  ;  wash  ;  remove 
the  earthy  ends  ;  drain  and  cut  in  even  pieces.  Put  them 
into  a  bowl  with  the  oil,  salt,  and  black  pepper-corns.  Let 
them  stand  2  hours.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
hickory-nut  in  a  saucepan.  Now  drain  out  the  mushrooms  ; 
put  them  into  the  saucepan  with  the  butter  and  stew  for  6 
minutes.     Meanwhile,  prepare  the  sauce  as  follows : 

3  tablespoons  of  oil,  I  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

1  clove  of  garlic,  crushed  and  chopped,  i         "         chopped  chives. 

Put  these  ingredients  into  a  saucepan  ;  stir  over  the  fire 
for  five  minutes  ;  then  pour  the  sauce  over  the  mushrooms, 
and  serve  on  large  Croutons  fried  in  butter  (see  receipt). 


TO  BOIL  ASPARAGUS.  287 

SCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS. 

COQUILLES    DE    CHAMPIGNONS. 

Cut  the  mushrooms  if  too  large,  after  peeling  them  and 
trimming  the  stalks.  Throw  them  for  a  few  minutes  into 
boiling  water,  then  drain  and  throw  into  cold  water  to  whiten 
them.  Dry  well  and  saute1  in  hot  butter  for  3  minutes. 
Then  add,  when  almost  done,  a  teaspoon  of  flour  and  some 
chopped  parsley.  Stir,  and  in  3  minutes  add  a  cupful  of 
boiling  broth.  Let  it  simmer  very  gently  for  about  10  min- 
utes. Add  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  pepper.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  up  with  a  few 
drops  of  cold  water  or  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sherry.  Fill  shells 
with  this  mixture  ;  cover  the  top  with  bread-crumbs  ;  dot 
with  butter  ;  set  in  the  oven  until  thoroughly  hot,  and  serve. 

TO   BOIL   ASPARAGUS. 

ASPERGES   EN   BRANCHES. 

Scrape  the  coarse  skin  from  each  blade,  throwing  it  into 
cold  water  as  it  is  done.  Then  tie  securely  in  a  bunch  with 
tapes  or  strips  of  muslin.  Make  the  tips  even,  and  cut  the 
lower  ends  all  of  one  length.  Have  ready  an  asparagus- 
boiler  with  boiling  water  and  about  •§-  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Lay  the  asparagus  on  the  drainer,  and  set  it  in  the 
boiler.  In  18  or  20  minutes  after  it  comes  again  to  a  boil, 
the  asparagus  should  be  tender.  Be  careful  that  it  does  not 
boil%too  soft.  Remove  the  drainer,  and  not  only  drain  the 
asparagus  very  thoroughly,  but  steam  off  all  the  moisture  as 
well  as  you  can.  Have  ready  some  thin  slices  of  toast,  but- 
tered and  trimmed.  Lay  the  bunch  of  asparagus  on  these  ; 
then  remove  the  strings.  Serve  in  a  sauce-boat  apart,  a 
Cream  Sauce,  or  a  White  Sauce  (see  receipts),  adding  a  few 
drops  of  lemon-juice  or  vinegar  to  the  latter.  A  delicious 
sauce  for  asparagus  is  made  thus :  Take  I  yolk  of  hard- 
boiled  egg  for  each  person.  Mash  it  to  a  powder;  add  a 
little  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  into  it  enough  melted  butter 


288  GOOD-LIVING. 

to  make  it  as  thick  as  mayonnaise.  Or,  again,  you  may 
serve  plain  melted  butter  in  a  sauce-boat ;  but  avoid  if  pos- 
sible the  prevailing  fashion  of  serving  asparagus  looking 
like  modified  milk-toast,  with  drawn  butter  poured  over  it. 

N.  B. — Take  note  that  the  asparagus  (as  indeed  all  boiled 
vegetables)  should  be  drained  dry. 

SPRUE  AND  EGGS  (ENGLISH  RECEIPT). 

Having  cut  2  bunches  of  asparagus  in  i-inch  pieces, 
using  the  tender  parts  only,  boil  it  in  2  quarts  of  boiling 
water  with  \  an  ounce  of  salt  for  about  10  minutes,  until 
tender.  Drain  thoroughly.  Take  3  eggs  ;  beat  yolks  and 
whites  apart ;  add  to  the  yolks  I  tablespoonful  of  milk 
or  cream,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper ;  mix 
these  with  the  asparagus.  Stir  in  the  whites ;  put  into  a 
saucepan,  and  cook  just  long  enough  to  heat  them  through  ; 
then  serve  in  a  deep  dish  with  a  border  of  large  Croutons 
(see  receipt). 

STEWED  ASPARAGUS    TIPS. 

ASPERGES   EN   PETITS-POIS. 

4  bunches  of  green  asparagus,  2  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

^  ounce  of  salt,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

6  tablespoons  of  Cream  Sauce,  Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg, 

1  level  saltspoon  of  sugar,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  tender  parts  of  the  asparagus  into  pieces  about 
1  inch  long,  and  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Have  ready 
a  saucepan  with  2  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  £  an  ounce 
of  salt.  Drain  the  asparagus  and  throw  it  into  the  boiling 
water.  Boil  rapidly  until  tender,  about  10  minutes.  Drain 
very  thoroughly,  and  return  to  the  fire  with  the  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  sugar,  and  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Stir 
carefully,  that  you  may  not  break  the  asparagus ;  when 
scalding  hot,  serve  on  neatly  trimmed  rounds  of  thin,  buttered 
toast. 

N.  B. — Use  the  coarse  ends  of  the  asparagus  for  Asparagus 
Soup  (see  receipt). 


GREEN  PEAS.  289 

TO  BOIL    GREEN  PEAS. 

PETITS-POIS. 

Shell  young  peas  into  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  When  ready 
to  cook  them,  have  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water  on  the 
fire.  Drain  the  peas  and  put  them  into  the  kettle.  Do  not 
put  on  the  lid.  Let  them  cook  rapidly  for  about  20  minutes. 
Try  1  or  2  ;  if  not  tender  then,  let  them  boil  a  little  longer. 
The  moment  they  are  tender,  remove  them  from  the  fire. 
Drain  off  the  water ;  add  a  very  large  lump  of  sweet,  fresh 
butter,  a  dash  of  pepper,  salt,  and  (if  the  peas  are  not  of  the 
sweetest)  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Set  them  in  a  warm  place  until 
the  butter  melts,  and  serve  very  hot. 

N.  B. — Boiling  uncovered  preserves  the  color. 

If  the  peas  are  fresh  and  good,  they  will  require  no  more 
dressing  than  the  above.  When  they  begin  to  be  older  and 
less  sweet,  prepare  them  according  to  the  following  receipts. 
A  head  of  lettuce  may  be  added  to  the  above  if  liked. 

STEWED  PEAS. 

PETITS-POIS   SAUTES. 

1  quart  of  peas,  3  ounces  of  butter, 

I  ounce  of  chopped  onion,  %  ounce  of  sugar, 

Salt,  1  gill  of  water,  boiling. 

Cover  closely,  and  stew  very  gently  for  35  minutes.  When 
tender,  add  the  butter ;  toss  it  well  with  the  peas  and  serve 
as  soon  as  it  melts. 

N.  B. — In  this  case  the  color  must  be  sacrificed  (by 
covering),  as  older  peas  are  used  and  they  must  be  cooked 
in  such  a  way  as  to  make  them  tender. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

PETITS-POIS. 

Shell  the  peas.     Select  the  youngest.     Throw  them  into 

cold  water.     Put  the  pods  in  a  kettle  with  boiling  water, 
19 


29O  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  boil  30  minutes.  Strain  the  water  off  and  return  it  to 
the  fire  in  the  kettle.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Drain  out  the  peas 
(they  should  be  of  uniform  size)  and  throw  them  into  the  boil- 
ing liquid.  Do  not  put  on  the  lid.  Boil  for  20  to  30  minutes, 
until  the  peas  are  tender.  Remove  them  from  the  fire  the 
very  moment  they  are  tender  enough.  Drain  off  all  but 
I  gill  of  the  liquid  ;  add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  If  liked,  a 
pinch  of  flour  may  be  also  added,  stirred,  and  boiled  3 
minutes.  Pour  over  the  peas  and  serve.  A  head  of  lettuce 
may  be  added  to  the  above. 

PUREE   OF  PEAS. 

PUREE   DE   POIS. 

1  pint  of  dried  peas  or  2  pint  cans,  1  bay-leaf, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  cloves, 

1  "  "  flour,  I  onion, 

1  pint  of  milk,  I  sprig  of  parsley, 

1     "     "  water,  ^  pound  of  ham, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Wash  the  peas  in  cold  water ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  cold  water.  Bring  it  to  a  boil.  If  canned,  boil  20 
minutes ;  if  dried,  2  hours  or  more,  until  tender.  When 
done,  the  water  should  be  almost  absorbed.  When  tender, 
press  through  a  colander.  Meanwhile  put  the  milk  on  to  boil 
in  a  farina-kettle  with  the  bay-leaf,  chopped  onion,  cloves, 
parsley,  and  ham.  Rub  the  butter  and  flour  together  until 
smooth.  When  the  milk  has  boiled  20  minutes,  strain  it  into 
the  peas ;  then  put  the  whole  back  into  the  farina-kettle ; 
stir  in  the  flour  and  butter  and  continue  to  stir  until  it 
thickens  and  boils  3  minutes.  Add  salt  and  pepper  and 
serve  with  veal  cutlets  or  small  filets,  mutton  chops,  etc.,  etc. 
Puree  of  limas  or  other  fresh  beans  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way. 

N.  B. — If  dried  peas  are  used,  soak  overnight ;  if  the 
water  boils  off  too  much  before  they  are  tender,  add  more, 
very  little  at  a  time. 


CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN.  29 1 

TO  BOIL  CAULIFLOWER. 

CHOU-FLEUR. 

Trim  off  the  outside  leaves,  leaving  1  row  around  the 
flower.  Cut  an  X  in  the  stalk.  Have  a  large  pot  of  boiling 
water  on  the  fire.  Add  enough  milk  to  whiten  the  water ; 
also  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt.  The  cauliflower  should 
be  left  in  vinegar  and  water  for  20  to  30  minutes  before 
boiling  :  this  system  is  supposed  to  draw  out  any  insects  that 
may  lurk  within.  Drain  it  thoroughly ;  tie  it  loosely  in  a 
piece  of  cheese-cloth  large  enough  to  cover  it  entirely.  Put 
it  into  the  boiling  water,  which  must  cover  it  well.  Let  it 
boil  until  quite  tender,  but  be  careful  that  it  does  not  go  to 
pieces.  As  cauliflowers  vary  very  much  in  size,  only  a  gen- 
eral idea  of  the  time  required  can  be  given.  One  of  ordi- 
nary size  will  take  about  40  minutes,  perhaps  more.  When 
cooked,  lift  it  out  by  the  cheese-cloth,  drain  very  thoroughly, 
and  set  in  a  round  dish.  Make  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt)  ; 
pour  it  over  the  cauliflower ;  cover,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  few 
minutes  for  the  sauce  to  penetrate.  Then  serve.  Or,  if  a 
handsome  specimen,  successfully  boiled,  serve  it  in  a  round 
dish  with  a  White  Sauce  served  separately  in  a  sauce-boat. 
Add  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  to  the  sauce  before  serving. 
Small  cauliflowers  will  not  require  more  than  30  minutes  to 
boil. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN. 

CHOU-FLEUR  AU   GRATIN. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  as  directed.  Set  it  in  a  round  baking- 
dish  which  can  be  sent  to  table.  For  a  moderate-sized  cauli- 
flower make  1  pint  of  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Add  to 
the  sauce  2  heaping  tablespoons  each  of  grated  Parmesan 
and  Gruyere  cheese,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne..  Mix  the  sauce 
and  pour  it  over  the  cauliflower,  letting  it  penetrate  all  the 
crevices.  Cover  the  top  with  fine,  grated  bread-crumbs,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  20  minutes.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 


292  GOOD-LIVING. 

BOILED  CAULIFLOWER  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

CHOU-FLEUR,    SAUCE   TOMATE. 

Having  boiled  a  medium-sized  cauliflower  very  carefully  as 
directed,  place  it  on  a  round  dish,  after  having  thoroughly 
drained  it.  Have  ready  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt)  ; 
pour  it  around,  not  over,  the  cauliflower,  and  serve  as  a  sep- 
arate course.     This  is  a  very  pretty  dish.     Recommended. 

BROCCOLI. 
Prepare  according  to  the  receipts  given  for  cauliflower. 

WINTER  CABBAGE. 

CHOU. 

Cut  in  4  ;  lay  in  salted  cold  water  for  a  little  while,  trim- 
ming off  the  outer  leaves  and  stalk.  Drain  well,  and  put 
into  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water,  allowing  ^  an  ounce  of  salt 
to  the  gallon.  Boil  very  gently,  covered,  for  10  minutes,  then 
remove  from  the  fire ;  drain  off  the  water ;  re-cover  with  salted 
boiling  water  as  before,  and  boil  for  1  hour  or  more  until 
tender.  Do  not  cover  the  pot  after  the  first  10  minutes. 
Drain  very  dry  ;  dress  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
or  chop  it  coarsely  and  cover  with  a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see 
receipt).  If  boiled  when  cut  like  cold-slaw,  it  will  only 
require  about  30  minutes.     Drain  and  dress  as  above. 

SUMMER  CABBAGE. 

CHOU. 

Cut  in  2  or  4.  Lay  in  salted  cold  water  to  draw  out  any 
insects  that  may  lurk  inside.  Drain  thoroughly  and  put  into 
a  pot  of  salted  boiling  water.  Do  not  cover.  Boil  30  to  40 
minutes,  until  tender.  Drain  very  dry  in  a  colander,  pressing 
the  water  out  with  a  plate.  Dress  with  melted  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt,  or  with  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

N.  B. — To  avoid  the  unpleasant  odor  caused  by  cooking 
cabbage,  use  a  very  large  pot  and  do  not  fill  it  too  near  the 


BRUSSELS  SPROUTS.  293 

brim  with  the  water,  as  it  is  the  boiling  over  which  causes 
the  disagreeable  odor.  Another  way  of  overcoming  this 
trouble  is  also  suggested,  which  is  to  put  into  the  water 
a  piece  of  bread  tied  in  a  fine  white  rag.  After  it  has  been 
15  minutes  in  the  pot,  remove  it  and  throw  it  immediately 
into  the  fire  to  burn,  as,  in  its  turn,  it  becomes  very  un- 
pleasant. 

STEWED  CABBAGE  AND  CELERY. 

Cut  into  shreds  equal  quantities  of  cabbage  and  celery. 
Lay  for  a  few  minutes  in  cold  water,  then  drain  and  put  into 
salted  boiling  water.  Boil  gently  for  20  or  30  minutes, 
according  to  the  season.  Meanwhile  prepare  a  rich  Cream 
Sauce  (see  receipt).  Drain  the  cabbage  and  celery  as  dry  as 
possible,  and  stir  into  the  cream  sauce.  Let  it  stew  very 
gently  for  10  minutes,  and  serve.     Recommended. 

STEWED  CABBAGE. 

Cut  the  cabbage  like  coarse  cold-slaw.  Add  a  small  piece 
of  red  pepper  (without  seeds)  and  parboil  it  10  minutes 
in  salted  boiling  water.  Drain  dry.  Add  3  or  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  2  large  table- 
spoonfuls  of  stock.  Cover  closely  and  simmer  gently  for 
about  30  minutes,  until  perfectly  tender.  Add  salt  and 
pepper,  and  serve. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS. 

CHOUX   DE   BRUXELLES. 

Pick  these  over  carefully,  rejecting  all  the  loose,  hanging 
leaves.  Throw  them  into  cold  salted  water  for  at  least  1 5 
minutes  to  draw  out  any  lurking  insects.  Have  ready  on 
the  fire  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt  in  it. 
Having  drained  the  sprouts,  put  them  into  the  boiling 
water.  Do  not  put  on  the  lid.  Boil  12  to  15  or  even  20 
minutes,  just  long  enough  for  the  sprouts  to  be  tender  all 


294  GOOD-LIVING. 

through,  but  by  no  means  soft  enough  to  go  to  pieces. 
Drain  them.  Now  hold  them  in  the  colander  under  the 
cold-water  faucet,  and  let  the  cold  water  dash  over  them, 
then  drain  very  thoroughly,  and  return  to  a  china-lined 
saucepan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Set 
on  one  side  of  the  range  where  it  will  warm  very  gently 
without  danger  of  burning.  When  well  heated,  serve  in  a 
hot  dish. 

The  above  mode  of  treatment  is  supposed  to  preserve  the 
color  of  the  sprouts  without  using  any  chemicals ;  its  recom-_ 
mendation  is  that  the  idea  comes  from  the  native  land  of 
Brussels  sprouts. 

CANNED  VEGETABLES. 

When  possible,  these  should  always  be  rinsed  in  cold 
water,  allowing  the  stream  of  water  to  dash  over  and  through 
them.  Then  drain  and  dress  to  taste.  This  removes  the 
taste  of  the  tin  can  and  freshens  the  vegetables. 

SUMMER  SQUASH. 

It  is  recommended,  instead  of  peeling  and  boiling  white 
squash,  to  cut  it  in  sections,  removing  the  seeds  and  leaving 
the  peel  on,  and  bake  it  in  the  oven.  Baste  with  butter  or 
sweet  drippings,  and  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  chopped 
parsley  before  serving.  To  boil  it,  peel,  remove  the  seeds, 
cut  in  medium-sized  pieces,  barely  cover  it  with  boiling 
water,  and  boil  until  tender.  Dry  it  very  thoroughly.  Mash 
it  through  a  colander  ;  add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  serve.    If  will  require  about  20  minutes  to  boil. 

The  long-necked,  white,  summer  squash  is  delicious  if  cut 
and  fried  exactly  like  egg-plant  or  cucumbers.  The  narrow 
end  is  best  done  in  this  way. 

TURK'S  HEAD  SQUASH  AU  GRATIN 

Bake  this  as  directed  above  ;  rub  the  soft  part  through  the 
colander ;  mix  with  it  a  little  cream,  pepper,  and  salt.     Put 


CORN  PUDDING  AS  A    VEGETABLE  295 

it  into  a  deep  dish  ;  cover  the  top  with  grated  Parmesan  and 
bread-crumbs  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  about  10  minutes 
until  nicely  browned.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

PIMENTS   FARCIS. 


6  green  sweet  peppers, 

Bunch  of  parsley, 

Stale  bread-crumbs, 

Ham, 

1  cup  of  stewed  tomatoes, 

Salt, 

I  grated  onion, 

Broth. 

Cut  the  stems  out  very  neatly  to  make  the  tops.  Empty  the 
insides  of  the  peppers,  being  careful  to  get  rid  of  every  seed. 
Be  certain  the  peppers  are  not  of  the  hot  kind,  which  are 
frequently  sold  by  mistake  for  the  sweet.  (If  they  are  hot, 
they  must  be  laid  in  strong  salt  and  water  for  24  hours 
before  using.  This  will  take  out  some  of  the  strong  taste.) 
Make  a  dressing  of  equal  bulks  of  ham  and  stale  bread- 
crumbs, to  which  add  the  parsley,  onion,  and  tomatoes. 
Chop  all  very  fine.  In  seasoning,  only  add  pepper  if  re- 
quired. Fill  the  peppers  with  the  dressing.  Cover  them 
with  the  stems,  from  which  you  have  carefully  removed  all 
the  white  part.  Place  them  in  a  saucepan  just  large  enough 
to  hold  them  closely  packed,  stem  end  uppermost.  Pour 
over  broth  enough  to  cover  them  a  little  more  than  £,  and 
simmer  very  gently  for  i£  hours.  Remove  them  carefully 
to  a  hot  dish.  Boil  down  the  gravy  briskly  for  a  few  min- 
utes, thickening  it  slightly  with  a  pinch  of  corn-starch 
blended  with  cold  water.  Stir ;  boil  3  minutes  ;  pour  over 
the  peppers ;  serve. 

CORN  PUDDING  ASA  VEGETA  BLE. 

I  dozen  grated  ears  of  corn,  I  cup  of  milk  or  cream, 

1  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  Salt  to  taste. 

Mix.     Bake  I  hour. 

This  is  a  Southern  receipt  and  very  good. 


296  GOOD-LIVING. 

BAKED  GREEN-CORN  PUDDING. 

12  ears  of  corn  scored  and  scraped,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

1  pint  of  new  milk,  2  eggs, 

Salt  and  pepper. 

Mix  and  bake  45  minutes.  Use  less  milk  if  the  corn 
yields    a  great  deal. 

TO  BOIL  CORN. 

Strip  off  the  husk  and  silk  entirely  ;  or,  strip  off  all  the 
husk  except  1  inner  row  of  leaves,  removing  every  thread  of 
the  silk.  Either  way  is  good.  Have  ready  a  large  pot  of 
boiling  water.  Never  put  salt  into  the  water  for  boiling 
corn ;  it  hardens  the  outer  coating  of  the  grains,  making 
them  often  shrivelled  and  yellow,  besides  being  much  more 
indigestible.  Put  the  corn  in  the  pot ;  cover  and  boil  rap- 
idly for  about  20  minutes  (for  large-sized  ears) ;  then  set  the 
pot,  with  the  corn  in  it,  upon  the  hearth  and  let  it  stand  for 
10  or  15  minutes.  Then  drain;  strip  off  the  leaves,  and 
serve  in  a  napkin  folded  to  cover  them.  There  are  made,  at 
present,  extremely  dainty,  embroidered  corn-cloths  for  this 
purpose,  the  shape  being  well  designed  for  covering  the  corn 
and  keeping  it  hot. 

CORN  OYSTERS. 

2  heaping  tablespoons  of  flour,  12  ears  of  corn, 

]/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  eggs, 

Cayenne,  Butter  and  lard  for  frying. 

Score  the  corn  and  press  out  all  the  grains  with  the  back 
of  a  knife  ;  this  is  much  better  than  grating.  Beat  the  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  apart,  until  very  light.  Add  first  the  yolks 
to  the  corn,  then  the  whites,  salt,  cayenne,  and  flour  ;  mix 
lightly  and  thoroughly.  Have  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed 
lard  and  butter  in  the  frying-pan.  When  very  hot,  drop  the 
mixture  into  the  pan  by  small  spoonfuls.  Brown  I  side, 
then  turn  with  a  cake-turner,  and  brown  the  other.     Be  sure 


EGG-PLANT  BAKED  WITH  BREAD-CRUMBS.  2gJ 

the  lard  is  very  hot  before  you  put  in  the  batter,  or  the 
oysters  will  be  greasy.  Drain  on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth 
of  the  oven,  and  serve  on  a  cut  paper  or  folded  napkin. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Corn  cut  from  7  ears,  I  pint  of  milk, 

1  egg  beaten  together,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Flour,  Lard  for  frying, 

I  teaspoon  of  baking-powder  to  each,  cup  of  flour. 

Scrape  the  corn  as  described  above.  Mix  all  together, 
adding  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter.  Drop  by 
the  teaspoonful  into  deep  boiling  lard  (see  General  Direc- 
tions for  Frying).  The  lard  should  be  deep  enough  to  float 
the  fritters.  If  they  spread  too  much,  after  testing  I  or  2, 
add  a  little  more  flour.  They  should  puff  like  doughnuts. 
Drain  dry  ;  serve  on  a  cut  paper  or  folded  napkin. 

N.  B. — If  the  corn  yields  much  milk  in  scraping,  add 
less   than  designated    in  the  receipt. 

EGG-PLANT  BAKED   WITH  BREAD-CRUMBS. 

AUBERGINE   A   LA   CREOLE. 

1  young  and  tender  egg-plant,  2  onions,  grated, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Butter, 

I  "  "  vinegar,  Bread-crumbs, 

Pepper,  Salt. 

Peel  the  egg-plant  and  cut  it  into  inch  dice.  Put  it  into  a 
saucepan  with  about  i  gill  of  boiling  water.  Simmer  very 
gently  until  tender,  but  not  entirely  done,  10  to  15  minutes. 
Then  throw  it  into  a  colander  and  drain  as  dry  as  possible, 
squeezing  out  the  water  with  a  saucer.  Meanwhile,  fry  the 
onions  in  butter ;  when  the  egg-plant  is  thoroughly  drained, 
remove  the  saucepan  and  onions  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in 
the  egg-plant,  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  vinegar,  and  as  much 
butter  as  you  can  spare,  about  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls.  If 
the  egg-plant  has  been  properly  dried,  it  will  absorb  the  but- 


298  GOOD-LIVING. 

ter  entirely.  Put  into  a  baking-dish  ;  cover  the  top  with 
browned  bread-crumbs  and  dots  of  butter,  and  bake  20  to 
25  minutes  in  a  good  oven.  There  should  be  nearly  I 
quart  of  the  stewed  egg-plant  for  the  above  proportions  ; 
therefore,  if  you  have  not  1  large  egg-plant,  use  2  or  more 
smaller  ones.     Delicious. 

STUFFED  EGG-PLANT. 

AUBERGINE   FARCIE. 

Prepare  exactly  as  Stuffed  Cucumbers  (see  receipt),  only 
do  not  put  the  sides  together,  but  round  them  up  with  the 
stuffing.  Cover  the  tops  with  bread-crumbs  ;  set  them  in  a 
bake-pan,  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
boiling  water.  Bake  for  about  I  hour,  or  perhaps  a  little 
less,  until  the  egg-plant  is  tender,  which  fact  you  can  ascer- 
tain by  slipping  a  narrow  knife  into  the  inner  edge  of  the 
egg-plant.  If  the  oven  is  too  quick,  cover  the  egg-plant 
with  a  piece  of  thick  paper  or  with  a  tin  pie-plate  until  a 
few  minutes  before  it  is  done.  Remove  the  egg-plant  to  a 
dish  and  set  in  warm  place.  Put  the  pan  on  the  top  of  the 
range  ;  add  about  2  gills  of  broth  ;  stir,  and  when  boiling, 
add  a  pinch  of  corn-starch  blended  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Stir  and  boil  for  3  minutes,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat  with 
the  egg-plant.  Or,  prepare  the  inside  of  the  egg-plant 
according  to  the  receipt  for  Baked  Egg-plant ;  fill  the 
shells  with  this  mixture  ;  cover  with  bread-crumbs  ;  dot  with 
butter,  and  bake  from  30  to  45  minutes,  until  the  egg-plant 
is  tender.     Serve  as  an  entree. 

FRIED  EGG-PLANT. 

AUBERGINE    FRITE. 
1  young  egg-plant,  1  egg, 

Flour,  Lard. 

Under  this  head,  it  is  well  to  make  an  effort  to  dispel  an 
old-fashioned  idea  which  seems  to  have  taken  possession  of 
the  general  mind  on  the  subject  of  this  vegetable.  Every 
one,  with  scarcely  an  exception,  will  prepare  an  egg-plant 


STEWED    CUCUMBERS.  299 

for  frying  by  carefully  cutting  it  into  slices,  and  piling  these, 
with  salt  between  the  layers,  putting  a  plate  and  heavy 
weight  on  the  top.  It  has  been  satisfactorily  proved  by  ex- 
perience that  this  elaborate  operation  is  perfectly  unneces- 
sary. If  the  egg-plant  is  not  too  ripe,  or  not  touched  by 
the  frost,  it  will  never  be  bitter  ;  if,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is 
bitter,  all  the  salting  and  all  the  pressing  you  can  give  it  will 
not  remove  the  bitterness.  Therefore,  spare  yourself  the 
trouble  of  the  above-described  process  until  you  have 
proved  by  a  counter-experience  that  it  is  indispensable.  I 
have  brought  in  an  egg-plant  with  only  time  to  cook  it  for 
the  dinner,  and  it  has  been  sweeter  than  others  which  have 
been  under  treatment  for  hours.  The  bitterness  comes 
entirely  from  the  vegetable  being  over-ripe  or  frosted. 

Pick  out  a  young  egg-plant.  Do  not  be  tempted  by  the 
size  of  the  extra-large,  handsome  ones.  They  are  very 
often  bitter.  The  egg-plant  should  be  firm  and  glossy  pur- 
ple. Peel  it,  if  you  like.  If  it  is  very  tender,  it  is  best  to 
leave  the  peel  on,  as  this  helps  to  keep  the  slices  from  break- 
ing. Cut  it  in  slices  about  \  of  an  inch  thick.  Dip  these 
first  in  beaten  egg  and  then  in  flour.  Have  ready  in  the 
pan  a  little  boiling  lard.  When  you  are  certain  that  it  is 
boiling,  lay  in  the  slices  of  egg-plant.  Do  not  cook  too 
quickly.  In  2  or  3  minutes  turn  the  slices  with  a  cake- 
turner  and  brown  on  the  second  side.  Watch  it  carefully, 
as  it  scorches  very  easily.  Do  not  use  butter  for  the  frying, 
as  it  blackens  before  the  egg-plant  is  cooked.  When  the 
egg-plant  is  tender,  remove  the  slices  with  the  cake-turner  ; 
lay  them  on  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  dry, 
serve  on  an  open  platter.  If  covered,  it  will  lose  all  its 
crispness  and  become  limp.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve. 

STB  WED    CUCUMBERS. 

CONCOMBRES   A   LA   CREME. 

For  this  mode  of  cooking,  riper  cucumbers  may  be  used 
than  for  eating  raw,  for  the  coarse,  hard  seeds  may  be  re- 


300  GOOD-LIVING. 

moved.  Peel  the  cucumbers  ;  cut  them  in  quarters.  If  old, 
remove  the  seeds.  Lay  the  cucumbers  in  boiling  water 
until  transparent.  Make  a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt), 
to  which  add  about  \  a  grated  onion.  When  ready,  drain 
the  cucumbers  dry  and  lay  them  in  the  sauce.  Stew  gently 
over  boiling  water  for  about  15  minutes  ;  then  dish  ;  sprinkle 
chopped  parsley  over  the  top  and  serve.  A  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  chives  added  with  the  parsley  may  take  the  place 
of  the  grated  onion. 

FRIED  CUCUMBERS. 

CONCOMBRES    FRITS. 

Cucumbers,  Fine  dry  bread-crumbs, 

1  egg,  Lard. 

The  cucumbers  for  this  may  be  a  little  riper  than  those  to 
be  eaten  raw.  Peel.  Slice  them  across  if  large,  lengthwise 
if  small.  Do  not  use  any  that  have  hard  seeds.  Dip  first 
in  egg,  then  bread-crumbs.  Set  aside  in  the  ice-box  for  1 
hour.  Have  ready  the  lard  heated  to  boiling  point  (see 
General  Directions  for  Frying).  When  you  are  certain  that 
it  is  boiling,  lay  in  the  slices  of  cucumber.  In  about  3  min- 
utes, turn  them.  In  about  3  minutes  more,  when  tender, 
remove  to  a  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When 
dry,  serve  on  an  open  platter. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBERS. 

CONCOMBRES   FARCIS. 

For  this,  use  large,  ripe  cucumbers.  Peel.  Split  them  in 
two  in  length,  and  remove  the  seeds.  Make  a  dressing  as 
for  Stuffed  Peppers  (see  receipt),  or  a  force-meat  of  chicken 
or  veal  and  ham  (see  Force-meats).  Fill  the  cavity  left  in 
the  cucumbers  with  the  dressing.  Put  the  two  sides  to- 
gether again,  and  tie  securely  ;  or  each  side  may  be  rounded 
up  with  the  dressing  and  covered  with  crumbs.     Lay  them 


CUCUMBERS  A    LA    POULETTE.  301 

in  a  saucepan,  with  about  2  gills  of  broth.  Set  them  where 
they  will  simmer  very  gently,  for  about  1  hour,  until  tender. 
Remove  them  to  a  hot  dish.  Set  the  saucepan  over  the 
fire ;  add  2  gills  more  of  broth  to  it ;  boil  down  briskly  for 
a  few  minutes.  Thicken  slightly  with  a  pinch  of  corn- 
starch, blended  with  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  and  boil  for 
2  minutes;  pour  it  around  the  cucumbers,  and  serve. 

DRESSED  CUCUMBERS. 

CONCOMBRES    EN    SALADE. 

Select  very  young  cucumbers.  Bury  them  in  the  ice  for 
long  enough  to  chill  them  thoroughly  through ;  or,  if  hur- 
ried, put  them  in  a  pan  with  ice  and  salt,  with  their  skins  on. 
Leave  them  until  the  very  latest  moment  before  using;  then 
peel ;  slice  them  just  as  thin  as  possible,  and,  at  the  moment 
of  serving,  add  vinegar,  salt,  and  cayenne ;  add  also  oil,  if 
liked.  Do  not  let  them  stand  in  the  dressing.  If  the  above 
rules  are  strictly  and  literally  followed,  you  will  find  that 
cucumbers  are  far  less  indigestible  than  is  generally  be- 
lieved. They  should  never  be  allowed  to  stand  and  wilt  in 
the  dressing. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  MAITRE  U  HOTEL. 

CONCOMBRES   A    LA   MAITRE   D'HOTEL. 

Prepare  the  cucumbers  as  for  stewing  (see  receipt).  Drain 
dry,  and  return  to  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  large  lump 
of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  chopped  chives,  and  parsley.  Shake 
over  the  fire  until  very  hot,  and  serve. 

CUCUMBERS  A  LA  POULETTE. 

CONCOMBRES   A   LA   POULETTE. 

Prepare  as  for  Stewed  Cucumbers  (see  receipt).  Just  be- 
fore serving,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  1  or  2  eggs,  blended  with  a 
few  drops  of  cold  water  and  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  Do 
not  boil  again  after  the  eggs  are  added,  or  the  sauce  will 
curdle. 


302  GOOD-LIVING. 

CUCUMBER  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS    DE    CONCOMBRES. 

Peel  and  slice  the  cucumbers  as  for  frying.  Throw  boil- 
ing water  over  them,  and  scald  until  almost  transparent. 
Drain.  Wipe  dry.  Dip  in  Fritter  Batter  (see  receipt),  and 
fry  in  deep  boiling  lard  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying). 
Drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve  on  a  cut  paper.  The 
cucumbers,  if  small,  may  be  cut  lengthwise. 

RAGOUT  OF  CUCUMBERS  AND  ONIONS. 

RAGOUT   DE   CONCOMBRES. 

Sliced  onions,  Sliced  cucumbers, 

I  cup  of  water,  Butter, 

I  gill  of  stewed  tomatoes,  or  Flour, 

I  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  Pepper, 
Salt. 

Fry  the  cucumbers  and  onion  in  butter  until  nicely 
browned.  The  cucumbers  will  brown  better  if  the  slices 
are  lightly  floured.  When  brown,  add  the  water.  Stew  30 
minutes.  Rub  together  a  small  teaspoonful  of  butter  and 
1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Add  to  the  cucumbers ; 
stir  and  boil  3  minutes.  Add  the  tomatoes,  salt,  and  pep- 
per. You  may  add,  if  you  like,  a  little  cold  chicken  or  veal, 
cut  into  neat  dice.  Heat  thoroughly,  and  serve.  This  is  a 
very  savory  dish. 

SPINACH  AU  JUS. 
PUREE   D'EPINARDS   AU   JUS. 

This  is  a  dish  that  is  so  simple  and  easy  to  cook  that,  like 
tea  or  coffee,  or  a  dozen  other  things  of  the  same  class,  it  is 
seldom  done  well. 

In  the  first  place,  select  young  and  tender  spinach  ;  if  this 
is  not  possible,  pick  it  over,  carefully  tearing  off  only  the 
tender  part  of  the  leaf,  and  rejecting  all  the  spines  and 
coarse   fibres.     Put  it  on  the  fire,  with  about  a  cupful  of 


PIE-PLANT  SPINACH.  303 

boiling  water  to  half  a  peck  of  spinach.  Do  not  cover  the 
saucepan.  Let  it  simmer  for  10  minutes.  By  this  time  it 
should  be  quite  wilted,  and  that  is  all  the  cooking  it  re- 
quires ;  more  would  destroy  the  color,  and  make  it  dry  and 
tasteless.  The  following  is  a  most  important  point  in  cook- 
ing spinach :  when  you  remove  it  from  the  fire,  drain  it 
perfectly  dry.  This  is  where  most  cooks  fail.  Press  it  in  a 
colander  with  a  saucer  or  plate  until  every  drop  of  moisture 
is  pressed  out.  Some  cooks  are  so  energetic  as  to  put.it  into 
a  cloth  and  wring  it  dry.  In  any  case  it  must  be  absolutely 
free  from  that  disagreeable,  green  spinach-water,  which  may 
perhaps  do  for  coloring,  but  is  fit  for  nought  else.  Now 
turn  it  into  a  chopping-bowl,  and  chop  it  as  fine  as  powder. 
Then,  if  liked,  rub  it  through  the  colander.  This  latter 
makes  a  puree,  and  is  excellent.  Now  add  either  a  few 
spoonfuls  of  rich  gravy  or  meat-juice,  and  a  large  lump 
of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very  small  pinch  of  sugar. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan,  and,  when  thoroughly  hot,  serve  it. 
The  proper  consistency  of  spinach  when  dressed  is,  that  it 
should  be  as  soft  as  it  can  be  and  yet  retain  its  shape  when 
neatly  arranged  in  a  mound.  It  must  be  neither  too  wet 
nor  too  dry.  Garnish  with  Croutons  (see  receipt),  or  with 
hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  quarters. 

SPINACH  A  LA   CREME. 

PUREE  D'EPINARDS   A   LA   CREME. 

Having  prepared  the  spinach  as  above,  substitute  cream 
for  the  gravy,  and  serve. 

PIE-PLANT  SPINACH. 

Take  the  tender  parts  of  the  leaves  of  the  rhubarb-plant, 
rejecting  all  that  is  fibrous.  Scald.  Throw  off  this  water, 
and  put  on  fresh.  Boil  for  a  few  minutes,  until  tender. 
Drain  dry,  and  dress  like  real  spinach.  It  cannot  be  dis- 
tinguished from  sorrel,  and  is  very  wholesome  and  cooling 
in  the  early  spring. 


304  GOOD-LIVING. 

PUREE  OF  SORREL. 

PUREE   D'OSEILLE. 

Prepare  exactly  as  spinach,  rejecting  all  that  is  fibrous. 
After  scalding  as  described,  dry  thoroughly.  Chop  and 
press  through  a  colander.  Dress  with  butter,  pepper,  and 
salt,  or  add  a  little  gravy.  Garnish  with  croutons  and  serve 
hot.  The  acidity  of  the  sorrel  may  be  modified  by  cooking 
it  with  an  equal  quantity  of  spinach. 

PUREE  OF  ENDIVES. 

pur£e  d'endives. 

Prepare  according  to  receipt  for  spinach,  chopping  not 
quite  as  fine,  and  dressing  with  butter  and  rich  stock,  or 
with  a  small  quantity  of  cream  sauce,  which  should  be  mixed 
all  through  the  endives.  Garnish  with  croutons  or  hard- 
boiled  eggs.     Serve  very  hot. 

PUREE  OF  C HICKORY. 

PUREE   DE   CHICOREE. 
Prepare  exactly  like  endives  or  spinach. 

BEET-TOPS. 
Prepare  exactly  as  endives,  boiling  longer  until  tender. 

TURNIP-TOPS. 
Prepare  exactly  as  above. 

DANDELIONS. 
Prepare  as  above. 

KALE. 
Boil  as  above,  only  longer,  until  perfectly  tender.     Drain 
perfectly  dry ;  make  a  little  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt),  and 
when  the  kale  is  chopped  quite  fine,  stir  it  into  the  cream 
sauce  and  serve  as  above. 


STRING-BEANS.  305 

PUREE  OF  LETTUCE. 

PUREE   DE   LAITUES. 

When  your  garden  yields  more  lettuce  than  you  can  use 
as  salad,  there  are  several  ways  of  cooking  it  which  will  be 
found  very  good.  One  of  these  is  to  prepare  the  lettuce 
exactly  the  same  as  spinach,  only  boiling  much  longer,  until 
perfectly  tender.  When  drained  perfectly  dry,  finish  as  di- 
rected. In  the  heat  of  the  summer  the  coarse  leaves  are 
often  bitter ;  it  is  best  to  throw  them  aside  and  use  only 
what  is  young  and  tender. 

LETTUCE  AU  JUS. 

LAITUES   AU   JUS. 

Wash  the  heads  thoroughly  without  breaking.  Cut  all  of 
uniform  length  and  tie  each  lightly  together.  Lay  them 
side  by  side  in  a  buttered  pan.  Slice  -§-  an  onion  ;  lay  it  and 
1  bay-leaf  in  the  pan,  and  half-cover  the  lettuce  with  strong 
stock.  Cover  the  pan  air-tight.  Stew  very  gently.  Or,  the 
pan  may  be  stood  in  a  slow  oven.  Open  it  from  time  to 
time  and  add  a  little  stock  as  it  cooks  away,  but  very  little 
at  a  time.  Allow  about  2  hours  of  slow  cooking  in  the 
oven,  and  frequent  feeding  as  directed.  Take  them  out, 
remove  the  strings,  and  lay  the  heads  of  lettuce  in  an  even 
row  on  a  flat  dish.  Set  the  pan  again  on  the  range  ;  add  a 
gill  of  broth  ;  let  it  boil  briskly  for  a  few  minutes.  Thicken 
it  slightly  with  a  pinch  of  corn-starch  blended  with  a  few 
drops  of  cold  water  ;  stir,  and  boil  3  minutes.  Or  the  gravy 
may  be  thickened  with  a  little  Brown  Roux  (see  receipt). 
Strain  the  gravy  over  the  lettuce,  and  serve. 

STRING-BEANS. 

HARICOTS   VERTS. 

Select  very  young  beans  to  boil ;  they  must  be  fresh  as 
well  as  young,  and  snap  when  bent.  Tip  and  tail  them, 
drawing  off  the  strings.     There  are  such  excellent  stringless 


306  GOOD-LIVING. 

beans  grown  now,  that  it  seems  almost  a  pity  to  waste  so 
much  time  over  those  that  have  to  be  strung.  Cut  them,  if 
broad,  in  halves,  both  in  length  and  breadth  ;  if  small,  across 
once  or  twice.  Throw  into  cold  water  for  30  minutes.  Bring 
a  kettle  of  water  to  a  boil.  Make  it  quite  salt.  When 
boiling  rapidly,  throw  in  the  beans,  which  you  have  drained 
dry.  Let  them  boil  rapidly  for  20  minutes  if  very  young, 
longer,  30  to  45,  if  older.  Do  not  put  the  lid  on  the  kettle. 
When  tender,  drain  free  of  all  moisture.  Return  to  the 
saucepan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  vin- 
egar, salt,  pepper,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley  chopped 
as  fine  as  powder.  Set  in  a  warm  place  until  the  butter 
is  melted,  and  serve 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Select  very  young  beans ;  the  younger  the  better.  The 
almost  universal  mistake  is  made  of  allowing  these  beans  to 
fill  out  and  grow  too  large.  Use  only  very  small  ones,  sorting 
as  you  shell  them.  The  larger  ones  will  make  delicious 
soup  (see  Puree  of  Limas  and  Tomatoes).  Throw  the  small 
ones  into  cold  water.  Have  a  large  kettle  of  slighty-salted 
boiling  water.  Throw  in  the  beans  and  boil  40  to  60  min- 
utes, according  to  their  age.  Drain  dry.  Return  to  the  fire 
with  pepper,  salt,  butter  (and  \  of  an  onion  grated  and 
fried  in  butter  if  liked),  and  stew  for  10  or  15  minutes  very 
gently.  Or,  drain  after  boiling  ;  add  cream,  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt,  and  stew  10  or  15  minutes.  In  either  case  serve 
with  parsley  chopped  as  fine  as  powder. 

PUREE  OF  RED  BEANS. 

PUREE   A   LA   CONDE. 

1  quart  of  dried  red  beans,  I  bay -leaf, 

1  carrot,  I  pound  of  ham, 

1  onion,  I  tablespoon  of  butter, 

X  teaspoon  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  and  soak  the  beans  in  lukewarm  water  overnight. 
In  the  morning,  drain    and   cover   with    fresh   cold  water. 


BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS  FOR   SUNDAY  BREAKFAST.     307 

Bring  to  a  boil.  Boil  1  hour.  Drain  again.  Return  to  the 
fire  with  just  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  them  ;  add  the 
baking-soda,  ham,  bay-leaf,  carrot,  and  onion  cut  fine.  Boil 
until  they  will  mash  easily  under  pressure,  about  i|-  to  2 
hours  longer.  When  tender,  remove  the  ham,  and  press 
the  beans,  etc.,  through  the  colander.  Return  them  to  the 
kettle ;  add  the  butter  and  sufficient  cream  to  make  the 
puree  of  the  consistency  of  soft  mashed  potatoes.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  very  hot  as  a  vegetable,  or  as  a 
garnish  for  veal  saute,  etc. 

PUREE  OF  LENTILS. 

PUREE    DE   LENTILLES    (CHANTILLY). 
Prepare  exactly  as  above. 

PUREE  OF  DRIED  PEAS. 

PUREE   DE   POIS    SECS. 

Prepare  exactly  as  above,  using  round,  green,  dried  peas 
in  preference  to  any  others. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS  FOR   SUNDA  Y   BREAK- 
FAST. 

Friday  night :  Pick  over  and  wash  the  beans  and  put  them 
to  soak. 

Saturday  morning :  Skim  the  beans  out  of  the  water  and 
put  into  a  kettle  with  hot  water  to  cover  them.  Let  them 
just  come  to  a  boil.  Skim  them  out  of  the  kettle  into  the 
bean-pot.  Cut  f  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork  in  strips  and  lay 
them  on  the  top  ;  add  the  molasses  (1  tablespoonful).  Cover 
them  with  hot  water.  Put  on  the  lid  of  the  pot  and  let 
them  bake  in  a  slow  oven  all  day.  If  the  water  dries  off, 
add  enough  to  keep  them  covered.  Let  them  stand  in  the 
oven  all  night  to  keep  warm. 

Sunday  morning :  Eat  and  enjoy. 

The  bean-pot  is  a  crock  narrowed  in  at  the  mouth,  and  is 
supplied  with  a  cover.     It  should  be  boiled  in  water  with 


308  GOOD-LIVING. 

some  drippings  to  remove  the  glaze  before  using  for  baked 
beans.  The  above  old-fashioned  receipt  allows  for  I  quart 
of  small,  dried,  white  beans. 

CREOLE  BEANS  AND  BACON 

I  quart  of  red  beans,  I  onion,  cut  very  fine, 

y£  pound  of  fine  bacon,  Cold  water  to  cover, 

Pepper,  Salt. 

Soak  the  beans  overnight  and  cook  exactly  according  to 
receipt  for  Pork  and  Beans.  Leave  the  bacon  in  I  square 
piece.  When  it  has  boiled  perfectly  tender,  which  will 
probably  be  before  the  beans,  take  it  out ;  skin  and  set 
aside  until  the  beans  are  very  tender.  Place  the  bacon  in 
the  centre  of  a  baking-dish ;  drain  the  beans  and  put  them 
around  the  bacon ;  fill  to  the  top  of  the  beans  with  the 
liquor  in  which  they  boiled.  Bake  i£  to  2  hours,  until  the 
liquid  is  nearly  all  absorbed.     Recommended. 

PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

PUREE    DE    MARRONS. 

I  quart  of  large  chestnuts,  I  quart  of  stock  or  water, 

I  tablespoon  of  butter,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Shell  the  chestnuts,  and  throw  into  boiling  water  until 
the  skins  come  off  easily.  Drain  and  skin.  Put  them  into 
a  saucepan  with  the  stock  or  water;  boil  about  30  minutes, 
until  quite  soft.  Press  through  a  colander;  add  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  soft 
mashed  potato.  Return  to  the  fire.  Stir,  and  when  very 
hot,  serve.  Good  with  veal  saut£,  dindonneau  (turkey- 
chick),  etc. 

LENTILS  SAUTE   WITH  BUTTER. 

LENTILLES    SAUTEES   AU    BEURRE. 

1  pint  of  dried  lentils,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

Chopped  parsley  and  chives,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Soak  the  lentils  overnight  in  warm  water.  Next  day  put 
them  in  a  saucepan  with  lukewarm  water,  and  simmer  for  2 


CELER Y  AU  JUS.  309 

hours  and  30  minutes  ;  when  perfectly  tender,  drain.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  add  the  lentils,  pepper,  and  salt. 
Stew  gently  for  15  minutes.  Add  1  teaspoonful  each  of 
parsley  and  chives,  chopped  as  fine  as  powder,  and  serve. 

SAMP. 

Select  very  white  and  evenly-cracked  samp.  Wash  it. 
Soak  it  overnight  in  lukewarm  water.  Next  day,  throw 
that  water  off  ;  cover  with  fresh  cold  water  ;  bring  gradually 
to  a  boil,  and  boil  gently  for  5  hours.  As  the  water  becomes 
absorbed,  add  fresh  boiling  water  from  time  to  time.  When 
tender  all  through,  drain  off  the  water ;  put  the  samp  into 
the  farina-kettle  with  milk  enough  to  make  it  quite  soft ; 
stew  gently,  with  the  cover  off,  for  I  hour,  until  the  milk  is 
absorbed  and  the  samp  creamy.  Add  a  good  quantity  of 
salt  and  a  large  lump  of  butter.  When  the  butter  is  melted, 
serve. 

N.  B. — Be  certain  the  samp  is  quite  tender  before  the 
milk  is  added. 

FRIED  SAMP. 

When  cold  (prepared  as  above),  form  into  cakes ;  dip  in 
egg  and  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  butter  until  quite  brown. 
Excellent  for  breakfast. 

CELERY  A  U  JUS. 

CELERI   AU    JUS. 

Cut  the  celery  (if  possible,  without  separating  the  stalks) 
into  lengths  of  6  to  8  inches.  Wash  carefully,  not  to  break 
it,  and  clean  the  earth  from  it  thoroughly.  Scald  it  for  5 
minutes  in  boiling  water.  Line  a  saucepan  with  thin  slices 
of  bacon.  Lay  the  celery  on  these.  Mix  4  tablespoonfuls 
of  Espagnole  Sauce  (see  receipt)  with  an  equal  quantity  of 
consomme  or  good  stock.  Cover  air-tight.  Simmer  gently 
for  45  minutes.  Or  the  saucepan  may  be  stood  in  the  oven 
for  the  same  length  of  time.  Dish  the  celery  like  asparagus  ; 
skim  the  sauce,  strain  it  over  the  celery,  and  serve. 


3IO  GOOD-LIVING. 

CELERY-ROOT  OR  CELERIAC. 

CELERI-RAVE. 

Wash  very  thoroughly.  Cut  the  leaves  off  about  I  inch 
from  the  root.  If  very  large,  divide  in  4.  Blanch  it  in 
salted  boiling  water  for  about  10  minutes.  Drain  dry;  add 
the  celeriac  to  a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt)  ;  set  it  over 
boiling  water  and  stew  gently  until  tender,  about  30  minutes. 
Or,  the  celeriac  may  be  sliced  when  scalded,  and  finished  as 
above.     It  will  require  less  time  to  cook. 

STEWED  CELERY. 

CELERI  A  LA  CREME. 

Wash  out  all  the  earth,  and  cut  the  celery  into  even  pieces 
about  2  inches  long.  Boil  in  salted  boiling  water  until 
rather  tender,  about  20  minutes ;  then  make  a  White  Sauce 
(see  receipt),  using  the  water  in  which  the  celery  has  boiled 
to  blend  the  sauce.  Add  an  extra  teaspoonful  of  butter  or 
a  little  cream  ;  drain  out  the  celery  ;  add  it  to  the  sauce  ;  set 
over  boiling  water  and  stew  very  gently  until  tender,  about 
45  minutes  in  all.     Keep  covered.     Serve  hot. 

CELER  Y  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS   DE   CELERI. 

Having  cut  the  celery  into  2-inch  lengths  and  boiled  quite 
tender,  dip  it  in  batter  (see  receipt  for  Clam  Fritters)  and 
fry  as  directed.  Dish  in  a  pyramid  on  cut  paper  or  a  folded 
napkin. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  A  LA   CREME. 

TOPINAMBOURS   A   LA   CREME. 

It  is  unfortunate  that  this  excellent  vegetable  is  so  little 
known  and  appreciated  in  this  country.  It  is  very  easy  (too 
easy,  the  farmers  think)  to  raise,  and  should  be  very  inex- 
pensive.    Wash.     Boil  with  their  skins  on  in  salted  boiling 


JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKE    CHIPS.  3  1 1 

water  for  about  20  minutes,  more  or  less,  according  to  age 
and  size.  When  tender  all  through,  but  not  soft  enough  to 
fall  in  pieces,  drain,  peel,  and  mix  with  a  rich  Cream  Sauce 
(see  receipt)  which  has  been  prepared  meanwhile.  Set  over 
boiling  water  and  stew  very  gently  for  5  to  10  minutes,  and 
serve. 

JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES  A  U  GRA  TIN. 

TOPINAMBOURS   AU    GRATIN. 
Boil  as  above,  and  dress  exactly  according  to  the  direc- 
tions for  Cauliflower  au  Gratin. 

PUREE  OF  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 

PUREE  DE  TOPINAMBOURS. 
Wash  and  skin  1  dozen  artichokes ;  boil  until  tender  in  1 
pint  of  consomme.  Drain.  Press  through  a  colander  ;  re- 
turn to  the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  with  I  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
salt,  and  pepper.  When  hot,  serve  with  filet  of  beef,  veal 
saut6,  braised  chicken,  etc.,  etc. 

JER  USA  LEM  A  R  TICHOKES  BA  KED. 

TOPINAMBOURS    ROTIS. 

Peel  and  trim  a  dozen  artichokes.  Melt  1  tablespoonful 
of  butter  or  drippings  in  a  fire-proof  dish,  which  can  be  sent 
to  table  ;  put  in  the  artichokes ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
bake  for  30  minutes,  basting  frequently,  until  of  a  rich 
brown.     Serve  in  the  same  dish. 

BRAISED  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 

TOPINAMBOURS   BRAISES. 

Prepare  as  directed  in  the  receipt  for  Braised  Chicken 
with  Jerusalem  Artichokes. 

JER  USA  LEM  A  R  TI CHOKE  CHIPS. 

TOPINAMBOURS   FRITS. 
Prepare  according  to  receipt  for  Potato  Chips. 


312  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRENCH  OR  GLOBE  ARTICHOKES. 

ARTICHAUTS. 

Cut  the  stalk  close,  then,  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  trim 
the  sharp  points  from  the  leaves,  removing  not  more  than 
£  an  inch  from  each.  Wash  in  cold  water  and  vinegar,  to 
draw  out  any  lurking  insects.  Have  ready  a  pot  of  salted 
boiling  water.  Lay  in  the  artichokes,  and  boil  very  gently, 
until  you  can  draw  out  a  leaf  easily,  but  do  not  let  them  go 
to  pieces.  Drain  them  upside-down  until  dry.  Then  serve 
hot  with  Hollandaise  Sauce,  or  cold  with  Tartare  Sauce,  or 
with  Plain  French  Dressing  (see  receipts).  The  time  for 
boiling  will  vary  with  the  size  and  age  of  the  vegetable,  from 
25  minutes  to  1  hour. 

TO  BOIL  ONIONS. 

Cut  a  small  slice  from  top  and  bottom  of  each  onion, 
selecting  white  ones  for  the  purpose.  Peel  them  in  a  bowl 
under  water.  Put  them  into  a  china-lined  saucepan,  with 
boiling  water  to  cover.  In  1 5  minutes  throw  this  water  off, 
and  replace  it  with  fresh  boiling  water  and  I  teaspoonful  of 
salt ;  boil  until  the  onions  are  tender  enough  to  pierce  with 
a  straw.  This  will  require  from  40  to  60  minutes  for 
medium-sized  onions.  The  very  large  Spanish  require  much 
longer.  Drain.  Serve  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt. 
The  best  onions  for  boiling  are  the  Bermudas. 

ONIONS  WITH  CREAM  SA  UCE. 

OGNONS   A   LA   CREME. 

Having  prepared  as  above,  boil  until  quite  tender,  but  not 
entirely  done.  Have  ready  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt). 
Drain  the  onions,  and  lay  them  in  the  sauce.  Set  on  one 
side  of  the  fire,  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  {bain-marie), 
and  stew  gently  for  fully  30  minutes,  until  the  onions  begin 
to  go  to  pieces.  Young  Bermuda  onions  prepared  in  this 
way  are  very  delicate. 


GLAZED   ONIONS.  313 

ONIONS  BAKED  AND  BROWNED. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  and  bottom  of  each,  and  peel 
them  in  a  bowl  of  water.  Use  Bermudas,  if  possible.  Have 
ready  a  pot  of  salted  boiling  water;  add  enough  milk  to 
whiten  the  water.  Put  in  the  onions,  and  boil  until  quite 
tender,  from  40  to  60  minutes.  Drain.  Lay  them  in  a 
bake-pan  ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar ; 
add  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  onions  were  boiled, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  until  the  onions  are  nicely  browned. 

GLAZED  ONIONS. 

OGNONS    GLACES. 

15  onions,  I  cup  of  consomme, 

I  teaspoon  of  sugar,  I  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 

Salt. 

Peel  the  onions  in  a  bowl  of  water,  cutting  the  skin  not 
too  close  to  top  or  bottom,  lest  they  should  go  to  pieces  in 
cooking.  Take  a  saucepan  large  enough  for  all  the  onions 
to  fit  in  the  bottom  side  by  side.  Put  in  the  butter,  and, 
when  it  is  melted,  place  the  onions  in  it.  They  should  be 
of  uniform  size.  Sprinkle  with  the  sugar,  and  moisten  with 
the  consomme,  which  should  be  strong  and  well-flavored. 
Add  salt.  Cover  and  set  on  the  side  of  the  range,  where 
they  will  stew  gently  for  about  1  hour.  By  the  time  the 
onions  are  tender  all  through,  the  broth  should  have  cooked 
down  to  a  glaze.  If  not  quite  brown  enough,  uncover  and 
set  the  saucepan  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Remove 
the  onions  to  a  dish.  Set  the  saucepan  on  the  top  of  the 
range ;  add  a  little  fresh  consomme^ ;  stir  it  around ;  boil 
and  strain  over  the  onions.  The  sauce  may  be  very  slightly 
thickened,  when  boiling,  with  a  pinch  of  corn-starch,  dis- 
solved in  a  little  cold  water.  Stir  and  boil  3  minutes.  Use 
the  onions  as  a  garnish  for  beef,  veal,  etc. 


314  GOOD-LIVING. 

SPANISH  ONIONS  BAKED. 

These  are  the  very  large,  white-skinned  onions.  Put 
them,  unpeeled,  in  a  pot  of  salted  boiling  water,  and  boil 
rapidly  1  hour.  Then  wipe  dry ;  roll  in  greased  papers 
which  you  twist  at  the  2  ends  to  keep  in  the  steam,  and 
bake  from  I  to  2  hours.  If  very  large,  boil  longer  before 
baking.  When  baked,  remove  the  papers  ;  peel  the  onions, 
and  serve  with  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ;  or  with  a  rich 
Brown  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

PLAIN  BOILED  OKRA. 

GOMBOS. 

Cut  off  the  stems,  nearly  up  to  the  shoulder ;  do  not  tip 
them  unless  the  points  are  discolored.  Put  them  whole 
(they  should  never  be  more  than  2\  inches  long  for  plain 
boiling)  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  with  salted  boiling  water. 
If  boiled  in  iron,  the  okra  will  turn  black.  Boil  20  to  30 
minutes  until  perfectly  tender,  but  do  not  let  them  break. 
Drain  off  the  water.  They  are  now  ready  to  be  dressed, 
according  to  taste. 

OKRA   STEWED. 

GOMBOS    SAUTES. 

Boil  as  above  ;  when  drained,  return  to  the  saucepan  with 
a  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  of  vinegar,  and  pepper 
and  salt.  Set  back  on  the  range  where  the  butter  will  melt 
and  stew  very  gently.  Be  careful  not  to  boil  again,  once 
the  okra  is  tender  enough,  or  it  will  break.  In  15  minutes, 
serve. 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES  STEWED. 

Peel  and  slice  tomatoes  ;  slice  okras  crosswise,  an  equal 
quantity  of  both.  Slice  2  or  3  stveet  peppers,  rejecting  the 
seeds  (beware  of  the  hot  peppers).  Stew  all  together  for  I 
hour  to  1  hour  and  30  minutes,  adding  water  only  in  case  the 


SALSIFY  SAUTE.  315 

vegetables  become  too  dry,  and  very  little  then.  Add  a  large 
lump  of  butter  and  salt ;  let  stand  5  minutes,  and  serve.  A 
\  cupful  of  well-washed  rice  and  small  pieces  of  ham  cut  in 
dice  may  be  added  to  the  above.  Watch  that  it  does  not 
scorch. 

OYSTER-PLANT  OR  SALSIFY. 

SALSIFIS. 

Scrape  thoroughly  and  lay  in  cold  water  immediately,  as 
the  contact  with  the  air  will  turn  it  black.  Have  ready  a 
china-lined  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Lay  in  the  salsify  and 
boil  until  tender,  1  hour,  perhaps  less.  It  may  be  cut  in  2- 
inch  lengths  before  boiling,  if  desired.  When  tender,  drain 
quite  dry  and  dress  according  to  any  of  the  following 
receipts. 

STEWED  SALSIFY  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

SALSIFIS   A   LA   CREME. 

Having  boiled  the  salsify  as  directed,  and  cut  it  in  2-inch 
lengths,  prepare  a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Dish  the 
salsify  ;  sprinkle  a  few  drops  of  vinegar  on  every  piece  and 
pour  over  the  Cream  Sauce.  Or,  make  a  White  Sauce  (see 
receipt),  adding  to  it  a  little  vinegar  ;  lay  the  salsify  in  this; 
set  over  boiling  water  and  stew  10  to  15  minutes.  Serve. 
Always  sprinkle  finely-chopped  parsley  over  the  top. 

SALSIFY  SA  UTE. 

SALSIFIS    SAUTES. 

1  bunch  of  salsify,  I  tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  1  "  "  chopped  parsley, 

I  "  "  mushrooms,  chopped,  1  "  "         "         chives, 

Pepper,  Salt. 

Having  boiled  the  salsify,  cut  it  in  i-inch  lengths  ;  add  all 
the  other  ingredients  ;  stew  very  gently  for  1 5  minutes,  and 
serve. 


316  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRITTERS  OF  SALSIFY. 

BEIGNETS    DE    SALSIFIS. 

Having  boiled  the  salsify  as  directed,  cut  it  in  2-inch 
lengths  ;  dip  in  batter  (see  Clam  Fritters)  ;  fry  in  boiling 
lard  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying) ;  drain  on  brown 
paper,  and  serve  on  cut  paper  or  a  folded  napkin. 

FRIED  SALSIFY  CAKES. 

Having  boiled  the  salsify  as  directed,  mash  it  through  the 
colander  and  finish  as  directed  for  Parsnip  Cakes  (see 
receipt). 

SCALLOPED  OYSTER-PLANT  OR  SALSIFY. 

SALSIFIS   AU    GRATIN. 

l]4.  pounds  of  boiled  oyster-plant,  3  ounces  of  butter, 

2  teaspoons  of  salt,  %  gill  of  milk, 

Cayenne. 

Having  boiled  the  salsify,  press  it  through  a  colander. 
Add  2  ounces  of  butter  and  all  the  other  ingredients.  Stir 
well  over  the  fire  until  the  butter  melts.  Fill  a  fire-proof 
baking-dish  with  the  mixture.  Stand  the  dish  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water.  Cover  the  top  with  fine  bread-crumbs  and  the 
remaining  butter  in  dots.  Set  in  the  oven  for  about  20 
minutes  until  brown,  and  serve.  Celery-salt  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  part  of  the  salt  in  the  receipt. 

MOCK  OYSTERS  OF  SALSIFY. 

COQUILLES   DE   SALSIFIS. 

Prepare  as  above,  baking  in  small  shells  or  china  cases,  5 
to  8  minutes. 

CARROTS. 

Scrape  and  lay  in  cold  water  for  30  minutes.  Put  them 
down  in  boiling  water  and  boil  about  1  hour  and  30  minutes  ; 


CARROTS  SAUTED.  317 

this  is  the  time  for  winter  carrots  boiled  whole.  If  cut  in 
slices  or  strips,  they  will  require  less  time.  When  tender  all 
through,  drain  dry,  and  dress  according  to  any  of  the  fol- 
lowing receipts. 

Small  summer  carrots  need  only  to  be  scraped,  washed, 
and  boiled  for  about  20  minutes,  then  dressed. 

CARROTS  FRICASSEED. 

CAROTTES   A   LA   CREME. 

Having  boiled  the  carrots,  cut  them  neatly  in  £-inch  dice ; 
have  ready  a  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt)  ;  stir  in  the  car- 
rots, salt,  and  pepper.  Set  on  one  side  and  stew  gently  for 
15  to  20  minutes  ;  stir  in  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley 
and  a  little  chopped  chives  and  chervil,  and  serve. 

CARROTS  A  LA  LYONNAISE. 

CAROTTES   A   LA   LYONNAISE. 

Having  boiled  the  carrots,  cut  them  into  even,  fine  dice. 
Chop  an  onion  very  fine  and  fry  it  golden-brown  in  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sweet  drippings  and  a  little  butter.  Add  the 
carrots,  pepper,  and  salt.  Mix,  and  when  very  hot  add  1 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  chervil,  and  serve. 

CARROTS   SAUTED. 

CAROTTES    SAUTES. 

Summer  carrots  of  medium  size  are  best  for  this  purpose. 
Scrape  and  wash.  Cut  crosswise  in  very  thin  slices..  Pour 
boiling  water  over  them,  and  when  perfectly  tender  (10  or 
12  minutes),  drain  off  the  water.  Add  a  large  lump  of  but- 
ter, a  good  pinch  of  sugar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Shake  occa- 
sionally until  the  butter  melts  and  the  carrots  begin  to  be  a 
little  reddish-brown  on  the  edges,  but  do  not  fry.  Sprinkle 
with  pepper,  salt,  parsley  and  chervil  chopped  as  fine  as 
powder,  and  serve. 


318  GOOD-LIVING. 

CARAMEL  CARROTS. 

CAROTTES   AU    CARAMEL. 

Having  boiled  them  as  directed,  cut  the  carrots  in  long, 
thin  strips,  like  cigarettes.  Put  into  the  frying-pan  a  large 
lump  of  butter  and  drippings.  When  very  hot,  add  the 
carrots  ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  fry  until 
the  edges  are  well  browned.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley 
and  serve. 

BEETS. 

BETTERAVES. 

Winter  beets  should  be  soaked  overnight  and  boiled  until 
tender,  anywhere  from  3  to  6  hours.  Do  not  touch  them 
with  a  knife  until  they  are  boiled,  or  their  color  will  be  de- 
stroyed. Winter  beets  should  be  peeled  when  cooked  very 
tender,  sliced  and  served  with  a  lump  of  butter  melted  with 
vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt  poured  over  them.  Or,  served 
cold,  sliced,  with  vinegar,  pepper,  and  salt.  Set  them 
away  for  a  few  hours  before  serving  in  this  way,  for  the 
vinegar  to  penetrate  them.  They  will  keep  for  some  time, 
and  are  excellent  to  mix  with  salads,  and  useful  as  a 
garnish. 

Summer  beets  require  less  time  to  boil,  1  hour  being 
sufficient  for  small  ones.  If  very  small,  serve  whole,  peeled, 
with  butter  and  vinegar  as  above ;  those  of  medium  size 
should  be  cut  in  4. 

TO  BOIL  PARSNIPS. 

Scrape  and  lay  them  in  cold,  salted  water  for  20  min- 
utes. If  old,  peel  carefully  and  split  lengthwise.  Put  into 
salted  boiling  water,  if  young,  for  30  to  45  minutes  ;  if  old, 
perhaps  more  than  1  hour  and  15  minutes.  When  tender, 
drain  and  serve  dressed  according  to  any  of  the  following 
receipts : 


PARSNIPS  SAUT&.  319 

STEWED  PARSNIPS  WITH  CREAM  SAUCE. 

PANAIS  A  LA  CREME. 
Having  boiled  as  directed,  cut  the  parsnips  in  neat  even 
pieces,  and  stir  into  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt).     Set  on 
one  side  where  they  will  cook  over  boiling  water  {bain-marie) 
very  gently  for  10  or  15  minutes,  and  serve. 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS  DE  PANAIS. 

Having  boiled  the  parsnips  as  directed,  cut  them  in  long 
narrow  strips  like  cigarettes  ;  dip  in  batter ;  drop  them  into 
deep  boiling  lard,  being  certain  that  the  lard  is  really  boil- 
ing (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  When  well  puffed 
and  golden-brown,  remove  with  a  skimmer  and  set  on  brown 
paper  to  drain.  Fry  only  a  few  at  a  time.  Serve  in  a  pyra- 
mid on  cut  paper  or  a  folded  napkin. 

Batter  for  same :  Mix  \  of  a  pound  of  flour  with  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  a  level  saltspoonful  of  salt,  half  that  amount  of 
pepper,  \  of  a  grated  nutmeg,  1  tablespoonful  of  salad  oil, 
and  1  cup  of  water,  more  or  less  as  the  flour  absorbs  it. 
Add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  The 
batter  should  be  stiff  enough  to  hold  the  drops  in  shape 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Use  for  parsnip  or  any 
other  vegetable  or  fruit  fritters. 

PARSNIPS  SA  UTE. 

PANAIS  SAUTES. 

Having  boiled  the  parsnips  as  directed,  cut  them  in  long 
narrow  strips  like  cigarettes.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with 
a  large  lump  of  sweet  drippings  or  butter,  and  shake  occa- 
sionally until  the  butter  absorbs  and  the  edges  of  the  pars- 
nips become  slightly  browned ;  do  not  allow  them  to  fry 
crisp.  Chop  a  tablespoonful  of  parsley  as  fine  as  powder ; 
stir  it,  with  pepper  and  salt,  into  the  parsnips,  and  serve. 
The  parsnips  will  boil  more  quickly  for  the  above,  if  cut  first 
into  strips. 


320  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS. 

PANAIS  FRITS. 

Having  boiled  the  parsnips  as  directed,  cut  them  in  slices 
lengthwise.  Heat  some  drippings  in  the  frying-pan,  and 
when  very  hot,  lay  in  the  parsnips.  Fry  brown  on  one  side ; 
turn  and  brown  the  other.  Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley, 
pepper,  and  salt,  and  serve. 

FRIED  PARSNIP  BALLS. 

3  large  parsnips,  i  tablespoon  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  flour, 

I  cup  rich  milk,  I  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Having  boiled  the  parsnips  as  directed,  but  a  little  longer, 
until  very  tender,  drain  and  mash  through  the  colander.  Beat 
the  eggs  very  light,  together ;  mix  all  thoroughly.  Form 
into  balls  and  fry  in  very  hot  butter,  lard,  or  sweet  drippings. 
Be  sure  the  fat  is  boiling  hot.  Or,  drop  into  deep  lard  like 
fritters  ;  or  fry  on  the  griddle. 

MASHED  PARSNIPS. 

PUREE  DE  PANAIS. 

Having  boiled  the  parsnips  very  tender,  mash  through  a 
colander ;  add  a  large  lump  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  milk 
enough  to  make  a  puree.  Serve  in  a  mound  on  a  hot  dish ; 
or  add  a  little  more  milk  and  serve  as  a  puree  with  veal  cut- 
lets, etc. 

TO  BOIL   TURNIPS. 

Peel ;  lay  in  cold  salted  water  30  minutes.  Drain.  Put 
in  salted  boiling  water ;  cover,  and  boil  about  1  hour  and  30 
minutes,  or  more,  for  whole  winter  turnips. 

Young  turnips  should  be  peeled  and  about  1  inch  of  the 
green  top  left  on.  Boil  about  I  hour  until  tender ;  the 
length  of  time  must  depend  upon  the  size  of  the  turnip. 
Drain  dry  and  serve  with  melted  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  or 
with  rich  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt). 


GLAZED  TURNIPS.  32 1 

TURNIPS  BAKED   WITH  MUTTON. 

Boil  the  turnips  as  directed  until  almost  tender ;  if  very- 
large,  cut  in  4 ;  drain,  and  lay  them  in  the  pan  with  a  roast- 
ing leg  of  mutton  about  45  minutes  before  it  is  to  be  done. 
Baste  frequently,  and  serve  around  the  mutton.  The  tur- 
nips should  bake  until  well  browned  and  very  tender.  Yel- 
low turnips  are  best  for  this  purpose. 

TURNIPS  WITH  CREAM  SA  UCE  FOR  BOILED 

MUTTON. 

NAVETS  A  LA  CREME. 
Cut  in  quarters  and  boil  as  directed.  When  nearly  ten- 
der, drain,  and  put  them  into  a  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt) ; 
stew  until  very  soft,  about  30  minutes,  over  boiling  water. 
Serve  around  a  boiled  leg  of  mutton,  with  the  sauce  poured 
over. 

TURNIPS  A  U  JUS. 

NAVETS  AU  JUS. 
Cut  in  quarters,  if  large,  and  boil  as  directed,  until  very 
tender.     Drain  and  put  into  the  pot  with  a  braised  leg  or 
shoulder  of  mutton,  about  45  minutes  before  it  is  to  be 
served.     Dish  around  the  meat  or  separately. 

MASHED  TURNIPS. 

PUREE  DE  NAVETS. 
Boil  as  directed  4  or  5  large  yellow  turnips  and  2 
large  potatoes.  When  tender,  drain  very  dry ;  mash  all 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Add  butter,  a  little  cream,  pepper, 
and  salt.  Form  neatly  into  a  mound  and  dot  all  over  with 
black  pepper.  Or  make  the  puree  softer  by  adding  more 
milk  and  butter,  and  serve  around  veal  saute,  etc.  The  ad- 
dition of  potatoes  is  of  importance. 

GLAZED  TURNIPS. 

NAVETS   GLACES. 
Trim  the  turnips  of  uniform  size,  the  shape  of  a  large 

olive.     Wash  in  cold,  salted  water.     Drain.     Stand   them 
21 


322  GOOD-LIVING. 

upright  in  a  pan  ;  cover  with  broth,  which  has  been  boiled 
until  very  rich ;  add  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Boil  20  minutes  or 
more.  When  tender,  remove  the  turnips;  set  the  sauce 
where  it  will  cook  down  quickly,  and,  when  reduced  to 
a  glaze,  return  the  turnips  to  the  pan,  and  cover  on  all  sides 
with  the  glaze.     Serve. 


TURNIPS  A  U  GRA  TIN. 

NAVETS   AU'  GRATIN. 

Boil  in  thin  slices  until  tender  ;  drain  and  finish,  according 
to  directions  for  Cauliflower  au  Gratin. 

BROWNED  TURNIPS. 

Peel;  slice;  boil  until  tender,  about  20  minutes.  Drain. 
Put  2  large  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  into  the  frying-pan  ; 
when  smoking  hot,  lay  in  the  turnips ;  sprinkle  over  them 
salt,  pepper,  and  about  1  tablespoonful  of  soft  sugar.  Turn 
until  well  browned  on  both  sides.     Serve. 

TO  MAKE  A  RICE  BORDER. 

I  cup  of  well-washed  rice,  1  quart  of  stock,  white  is  best, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Bring  the  stock  to  a  boil.  Having  drained  the  rice  well, 
drop  it  into  the  stock,  and  boil  very  rapidly  for  1 5  minutes, 
uncovered ;  then  stand  it  over  a  moderate  fire  to  steam,  not 
boil,  for  20  minutes  longer.  Drain.  Season  with  salt  and 
white  pepper.  Butter  thoroughly  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
a  tin  border-mould.  Press  the  rice  into  this ;  set  it  in  the 
oven  for  15  minutes.  Remove  it;  loosen  the  edges  with  a 
knife ;  place  a  hot  dish  upside-down  over  the  mould  ;  with 
a  quick  movement  turn  both  over,  and  remove  the  mould. 
Fill  the  centre  with  Curried  Chicken,  Fricassee,  Blanquette 
of  Veal,  etc. 


BOILED  RICE.  323 

CREOLE  RECEIPT  FOR  BOILING  RICE. 

RIZ   PERLE 

Wash  the  rice  in  3  waters  ;  rub  it  dry  in  a  clean  cloth  after 
the  last  washing.  Have  ready  a  deep  saucepan  of  boiling 
water ;  sprinkle  the  rice  into  it.  The  water  should  be  deep 
enough  to  allow  the  grains  to  play  about  freely.  Do  not 
cover.  After  boiling  20  minutes,  test  several  grains  to  see 
that  all  are  tender  at  the  heart.  If  not,  boil  2  or  3  minutes 
longer,  about  22  minutes  in  all.  Remove  from  the  fire ; 
throw  it  into  a  colander.  When  drained  perfectly  dry,  put 
it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  large  lump  of  butter,  say  1  table- 
spoonful  to  1  cup  of  raw  rice,  and  plenty  of  salt.  Stand 
it  where  it  will  get  as  much  heat  as  it  can  without  scorching. 
Do  not  cover.  Do  not  stir.  Every  now  and  again  turn  it 
lightly  from  the  bottom  with  a  fork,  and  scatter  any  lumps 
that  form.  In  about  forty  minutes,  if  exposed  to  sufficient 
heat,  the  rice  will  be  dried  so  that  every  grain  stands  by  it- 
self. Should  the  rice  be  boiled  even  a  little  too  soft,  it  will 
take  much  longer  to  dry.  Should  it  look  pasty,  when  drained, 
hold  it  under  the  cold-water  faucet  and  let  the  cold  water 
dash  through  it ;  then  shake  dry,  put  into  the  saucepan  with 
butter,  and  finish  as  above.  The  above  receipt  is  one  that 
has  been  in  daily  and  successful  use  for  many  years.  When 
well  cooked,  every  grain  should  be  separate  and  saturated 
with  butter. 

BOILED  RICE. 

RIZ. 

Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water.  Wash 
the  rice,  and  sprinkle  it  in.  Add  salt.  Boil  rapidly,  so  that 
the  water  tosses  the  grains  about  loosely  for  25  minutes 
without  touching.  Then,  if  perfectly  tender,  throw  it  into 
the  colander,  and  leave  it  over  the  pot  of  hot  water  to  steam 
for  10  minutes.  Dish  and  serve.  Never  cover  it,  either 
while  cooking  or  when  served. 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS. 

SIDNEY  SMITH'S  SALAD  DRESSING. 

"  Two  large  potatoes,  passed  through  kitchen  sieve, 
Smoothness  and  softness  to  the  salad  give  ; 
Of  mordent  mustard  add  a  single  spoon, 
Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon  ; 
But  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  herbs,  a  fault, 
To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt  : 
Four  times  the  spoon  with  Oil  of  Lucca  crown, 
And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  "town"; 
True  flavor  needs  it,  and  your  poet  begs 
The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well-boiled  eggs. 
Let  onion's  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 
And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole. 
And,  lastly,  in  the  flavor'd  compound  toss 
A  magic  spoonful  of  Anchovy  Sauce. 
Oh  !  great  and  glorious,  and  herbaceous  treat, 
'T  would  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Back  to  the  world  he  'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 
And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  Salad-bowl." 

MA  YONNAISE  SA  UCE. 
See  Sauces. 

REMOULADE  SAUCE. 
See  Sauces. 

VINAIGRETTE. 

See  Sauces. 

324 


DRESSING  FOR   COLD-SLAW.  325 

MUSTARD  DRESSING. 

1  teaspoon  of  dry  mustard,  3  or  4  drops  of  boiling  water, 

2  gills  of  olive  oil,  Vinegar, 

Salt  and  pepper,  1  yolk  of  egg  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

Blend  the  mustard  first  with  the  boiling  water,  and  work 
it  up  to  a  sticky  paste  ;  you  may  require  1  or  2  drops  more 
than  indicated  above,  but,  if  so,  add  them  very  carefully,  as 
it  is  easy  to  use  too  much  water.  Then  begin  to  add  the 
oil,  drop  by  drop  at  first ;  more  boldly  after  a  few  minutes. 
Every  time  there  is  any  appearance  of  "  cracking  "  or  curd- 
ling, add  a  few  drops  of  vinegar,  and  work  briskly  until  it 
smooths  out  again.  The  quantity  of  oil  is  only  approxi- 
mate, for,  after  a  little  experience  of  the  management  of  it 
and  the  vinegar,  it  will  be  found  that  the  same  amount  of 
mustard  can  be  made  to  hold  more  oil.  This  dressing  is 
a  general  favorite  for  celery  salad,  fish  salad,  tomatoes, 
etc.,  etc.,  and  deservedly  so,  as  it  is  much  more  reliable 
than  the  mayonnaise,  which  it  closely  resembles  in  appear- 
ance. With  plenty  of  patience,  and  management  in  the 
alternate  use  of  the  vinegar  and  oil,  it  is  certain  to  succeed 
where,  especially  in  summer,  mayonnaise  fails,  often  unac- 
countably. This  dressing,  if  made  in  larger  quantity,  can 
be  kept  in  a  glass  jar  on  ice  for  1  or  even  2  weeks.  If  the 
oil  separates  at  all,  it  can  always  be  rubbed  smooth  again 
with  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.     Recommended. 

DRESSING  FOR  COLD-SLA  W. 

1  tablespoon  of  dry  mustard,  }4.  teaspoon  of  salt, 
]4.  teaspoon  of  sugar,                                        2  gills  of  warm  water, 

2  eggs,  1  gill  of  vinegar, 

1  scant  gill  of  oil,  cream,  or  melted  butter. 

Mix  together  sugar,  salt,  mustard,  and  water  ;  stir  smooth 
and  add  the  oil.  Set  over  the  fire  and  boil  up  once,  stirring 
steadily.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  it  into  the  eggs, 
which  are  already  beaten  together  in  a  bowl.  Return  the 
sauce  to  the  fire,  setting  it  over  boiling  water.  Stir  until 
smooth  and  thick,  then  add  the  vinegar.  When  cold,  use  for 
slaw,  cold  meats,  etc.     This  is  a  very  old-fashioned  receipt. 


326  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING. 

i  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  of  best  olive  oil, 

X  saltspoon  of  pepper,  )/2  saltspoon  of  salt. 

Mix  well  together  in  a  cup  and  pour  over  the  salad  at  the 
last  moment ;  mix  through  and  serve.  Be  careful  not  to 
crush  the  lettuce  in  mixing.  The  proportion  of  vinegar 
varies  with  the  salad  to  be  dressed,  lettuce  and  doucette 
(corn-salad)  requiring  very  little,  while  others  require  even 
more  than  the  above  allowance.  If  the  dressing  is  mixed 
upon  the  salad,  add  the  ingredients  in  the  following  order : 
First  pour  over  the  oil.  Mix.  Then  put  into  the  spoon  the 
vinegar  ;  add  to  it  the  salt  and  pepper ;  mix  these  in  the 
spoon  until  dissolved,  then  sprinkle  over  the  salad  ;  mix  and 
serve.  Observe  this  rule,  and  you  will  find  that  it  makes  a 
great  difference  in  the  excellence  of  the  salad. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

SALADE    DE   LAITUES. 

To  crisp  the  lettuce,  take  a  pan  of  cold  water,  dip  the 
lettuce  into  it,  holding  the  root  in  the  hand.  Dip  it  in  3  or 
4  times,  then  shake  it  out  well.  If  you  have  one,  use  a 
salad-basket  to  dry  the  lettuce.  Pick  over  the  lettuce  care- 
fully to  see  that  it  is  perfectly  clean,  stripping  off  the  larger 
leaves,  and  leaving  the  heart  intact.  Lay  all  in  a  thin,  clean 
towel ;  fold  it  up  loosely  and  set  in  the  ice-box  until  required. 

N.  B. — Handle  it  as  little  and  as  lightly  as  possible.  Dress 
it  at  the  last  moment  with  plain  French  Dressing  (see 
receipt).  It  must  not  stand  after  being  mixed,  or  it  will 
wilt.     Garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  quarters. 

SALAD  OF  ENDIVES. 

SALADE  D'ENDIVES. 

1  pint  of  endives,  French  Dressing, 

1  teaspoon  of  chervil,  chopped  very  fine. 

Crisp  the  endives  as  described  (see  Lettuce  Salad).  When 
ready  to  serve,  add  chervil  and  dressing.  Mix.  Do  not  let 
it  stand  or  it  will  wilt. 


SALAD   OF  CRESS,  PEPPER-GRASS,  AND    CHERVIL.      327 

CHICORY  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   CHICOREE. 
Prepare  exactly  as  Salad  of  Endives. 

ESCAROLE  SALAD. 

SALADE    D'ESCAROLE. 
Prepare  exactly  as  Lettuce  Salad  (see  receipt). 

ROMAINE  SALAD. 

SALADE    ROMAINE. 
Prepare  exactly  as  Lettuce  Salad  (see  receipt). 

FETTICUS  OR  CORN-SALAD. 

SALADE    DOUCETTE. 

Pick  over  every  leaf  carefully.  Prepare  exactly  as  directed 
for  Lettuce  Salad  (see  receipt). 

WA  TER-CRESS  SALAD. 

SALADE    DE    CRESSON. 

Pick  over  every  sprig  carefully.  Prepare  exactly  as  Let- 
tuce Salad  (see  receipt). 

DANDELION  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   CHICOREE    SAUVAGE. 

Wash  carefully  and  prepare  exactly  as  Lettuce  Salad  (see 
receipt). 

SALAD  OF  CRESS,  PEPPER-GRASS,  AND  CHERVIL. 

Wash  and  pick  over  carefully  ;  mix  equal  quantities  and 
prepare  exactly  as  Lettuce  Salad  (see  receipt).  Mustard- 
grass  may  be  added  in  season.  This  is  a  delicious,  fresh 
salad  for  early  spring,  the  grasses  being  better  when  grown 
under  glass. 


328  GOOD-LIVING. 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE  CONCOMBRES.    ,.„ 
See  Dressed  Cucumbers,  chapter  on  Vegetables. 

CUCUMBER  AND  ONION  SALAD. 

Prepare  the  cucumbers  as  directed  for  Dressed  Cucum- 
bers. Add  an  equal  bulk  of  sliced  Bermuda  or  Spanish 
onions.  Mix  with  a  lump  of  ice,  French  Dressing,  and  cay- 
enne, and  serve  immediately. 

SALAD  OF  STRING-BEANS. 

HARICOTS   VERTS    EN   SALADE. 

I  pint  of  cold  boiled  beans,  French  Dressing, 

I  teaspoon  each  of  parsley  and  chervil,  chopped  as  fine  as  powder. 

Select  very  young  and  tender  beans  ;  boil  as  directed  (see 
Vegetables).  Put  them  with  the  parsley  and  chervil  in  the 
salad-bowl.  Add  the  dressing,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  tea- 
spoon of  tarragon  or  Maille  vinegar  ;  mix  and  serve.  This 
salad  will  not  be  injured  by  being  set  in  the  ice-box  for  I 
hour  before  serving.     Serve  very  cold. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD. 

ASPERGES   EN   SALADE. 
I  pint  of  asparagus  tips,  French  Dressing. 

Boil  the  Asparagus  Tips  as  directed  (see  receipt).  When 
cold  add  the  dressing.  Mix.  Let  stand  I  hour.  Serve 
very  cold. 


OKRA    SALAD.  329 

CAULIFLOWER  SALAD. 

CHOU-FLEUR   EN   SALADE. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  cauliflower,  1  teaspoonful  of  chervil,  chopped  as  fine  as 

1  teaspoon  of  parsley,  chopped  as  powder, 

fine  as  powder,  I  teaspoon  of  tarragon  or  Maille  vinegar, 

French  Dressing. 

Boil  the  cauliflower  as  directed  (see  receipt).  Separate  the 
flowerets.  Mix  with  them  parsley,  chives,  and  dressing.  Set 
aside  1  hour.     Serve  very  cold. 


SALAD  OF  JERUSALEM  ARTICHOKES. 

SALADE   DE    TOPINAMBOURS. 

I  pint  of  cold  boiled  artichokes,  1  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  or  Maille 

1  teaspoonful  of  parsley,  chopped  vinegar, 

as  fine  as  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  chervil,  chopped  as 

French  Dressing,  fine  as  powder. 

Boil  the  artichokes  (see  receipt).  When  cold,  peel,  cut  in 
quarters.  Add  parsley,  chives,  and  dressing.  Mix.  Set 
aside  1  hour  or  more.     Serve  very  cold. 


OKRA  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   GOMBOS. 

50  cold  boiled  okras,  1  or  2  sprigs  of  chives,  chopped 
I  teaspoon  of  parsley,  chopped  as  fine  as  powder, 

fine  as  powder,  1  teaspoon  of  tarragon  or  Maille 
1  teaspoon  of  chervil,  chopped  as  vinegar, 

fine  as  powder,  French  Dressing, 
Cayenne. 

Boil  as  directed  (see  receipt).     When  cold,  mix  with  the 
dressing  and  herbs.     Set  aside  1  hour  and  serve  very  cold. 


330  GOOD-LIVING. 

SALAD  OF  DO UCE TTE,  CELER  Y,  A ND  BEE TS. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  Doucette  (corn  salad)  and  Celery 
(see  receipts),  and  \  the  bulk  of  celery  in  pickled  beets  cut 
fine.  Mix.  Add  Sydney  Smith's  Salad  Dressing.  When 
all  the  ingredients  are  cold,  mix  thoroughly  and  serve  imme- 
diately.    Highly  recommended. 

SALAD  OF  CELERY,  CABBAGE,  AND  BEETS. 

Prepare  equal  quantities  of  Celery  and  Cold-Slaw  (see 
receipts)  and  \  the  bulk  of  celery  in  pickled  beets  cut  fine. 
Mix.  Set  away  in  the  ice-box.  Add  a  Remoulade  Sauce  or 
Sydney  Smith's  Salad  Dressing  (see  receipts)  ;  mix  well,  let 
stand  not  more  than  10  minutes.  Serve  very  cold.  Highly 
recommended. 

RED  BEAN  SALAD. 

I  pint  of  cold  boiled  red  beans,  Vinaigrette  Sauce. 

Boil  the  beans  very  slowly,  until  perfectly  tender,  adding 
a  gill  of  cold  water  from  time  to  time.  When  cold,  mix  with 
a  Vinaigrette  (see  Sauces).  Add  cayenne,  and  tarragon  or 
Maille  vinegar  to  taste.  The  dressing  should  be  very  highly 
seasoned. 

CELERY  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   CELERI. 
i  pint  of  white  celery  washed  and  crisped,  French  Dressing. 

Cut  the  celery  in  I  inch  lengths.  Add  the  dressing ;  mix. 
Do  not  let  stand  more  than  10  or  15  minutes  or  the  celery 
will  wilt.  It  should  be  crisped  exactly  as  directed  for  let- 
tuce ;  never  allow  it  to  lie  in  the  water  or  it  will  become  water- 
soaked  (see  Lettuce  Salad). 


TOMATO   SALAD.  33 1 

CELERY  MA  YONNAISE. 

MAYONNAISE   DE   CELERI. 
1  pint  of  celery  washed  and  crisped,  Mayonnaise  Sauce. 

Prepare  the  celery  as  above.  Mix  the  Mayonnaise  (see  re- 
ceipt) with  it.  Arrange  neatly  and  garnish  tastefully.  It  is 
recommended  strongly  to  use  the  receipt  for  Mustard  Dress- 
ing in  preference  to  Mayonnaise. 

COLD  SLAW  {OLD-FASHIONED). 

1  pint  of  cut  cabbage,  Cold-slaw  dressing. 

Do  not  chop  the  cabbage,  but  cut  it  across  the  head  in 
shreds  as  fine  and  thin  as  possible.  Throw  it  into  cold  water 
for  10  minutes.  Drain  and  crisp  as  directed  for  lettuce. 
Pour  over  sufficient  Cold-Slaw  Dressing  (see  receipt)  to 
moisten  well,  and  serve. 

COLD  SLA  W. 

I  pint  of  cut  cabbage,  French  Dressing, 

I  large  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  Cayenne. 

Wash  and  crisp  as  above.  Mix  with  the  dressing.  Do 
not  allow  it  to  stand  more  than  10  minutes,  and  serve  very 
cold.     Recommended. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   TOMATES. 
1  pint  of  sliced  tomatoes,  French  Dressing. 

Peel  the  tomatoes  with  a  sharp  knife.  Never  under  any 
circumstance  scald  the  skin  off  for  salad  ;  it  gives  the  fruit  a 
half-cooked,  sodden  appearance,  and  destroys  its  quality.  It 
may  take  a  little  more  time  and  trouble  to  peel  them  as 


332  GOOD-LIVING. 

described,  but  it  is  indispensable.  When  the  tomatoes  are 
peeled,  set  them  whole  near  the  ice  until  very  cold.  When 
required,  slice  \  of  an  inch  thick.  Mix  with  the  dressing,  ad- 
ding i  large  tablespoonful  more  of  vinegar  and  I  teaspoonful 
of  tarragon  or  Maille  vinegar  in  place  of  I  of  the  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  oil  called  for  by  the  receipt.  Add  a  dash  of  cayenne. 
Mix.  Do  not  allow  the  salad  to  stand  more  than  20  minutes. 
Serve  very  cold. 

MA  YONNAISE  OF  TOMA  TOES. 

TOMATES   EN   MAYONNAISE. 

8  whole  tomatoes,  I  head  of  lettuce  crisped, 

Mayonnaise. 

Prepare  the  tomatoes  as  described  for  Tomato  Salad,  put- 
ting them  whole  upon  the  ice.  Let  them  get  very  cold. 
Prepare  a  Mayonnaise,  if  liked.  It  is  strongly  recommended 
to  use  in  preference  to  Mayonnaise,  a  Mustard  Sauce  (see 
receipt),  to  which  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  When  ready  to 
serve,  hollow  out  a  small  place  from  the  top  of  each  tomato 
(they  should  be  of  uniform  size  and  shape)  ;  set  the  tomatoes 
upon  a  flat  dish.  Arrange  around  them  the  pale  green 
leaves  of  the  lettuce ;  fill  the  hollow  in  each  tomato  with 
dressing,  and  serve  very  cold.  This  is  an  extremely  pretty 
dish,  easy  of  execution,  and  will  be  found  particularly  good  if 
the  Mustard  Sauce  is  used  as  above. 

SALAD  OF  WHITE  BEANS. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  white  beans,  2  tablespoons  of  smoked  herring, 
i  tablespoon  of  finely-chopped  chives,  shredded  fine, 
i  tablespoon  of  finely-chopped  chervil,  I  tablespoon  finely-chopped  pars- 
Tarragon  vinegar,  ley, 
Vinaigrette  sauce,  Cayenne. 

Boil  the  beans  as  directed  for  Red  Bean  Salad  (see 
receipt).  When  cold  add  all  the  other  ingredients;  mix; 
set  in  the  ice-box  for  2  hours.     Serve  very  cold. 


SALAD  A   LA   DEMIDOFF.  333 

RUSSIAN  SALAD. 

SALADE    RUSSE. 

3  tablespoons  each  of  :  turnips,  carrots,  I  heaping  teaspoon  of  chervil, 

beets,  cauliflower,  green  peas,  flage-  chopped  as  fine  as  powder, 

olet  beans,  Plain  French  Dressing, 

1  teaspoon  of  parsley,  chopped  as  I  extra  tablespoon  of  vinegar, 

fine  as  powder,  tarragon  or  Maille. 

The  cold  boiled  vegetables  should  be  cut  into  small,  even 
pieces  with  a  fancy  vegetable-cutter,  if  possible.  They 
should  be  well  drained  and  iced.  Arrange  the  different  col- 
ors in  a  round  dish,  starting  from  the  centre,  like  rays, 
red,  white,  green,  2  of  each.  If  8  sections  are  preferred, 
add  2  more  white,  repeating  those  given,  or  using  Jerusalem 
artichokes  and  potatoes.  The  proper  thing  to  use  for  the 
central  point  is  the  lower  part  of  the  French  globe  arti- 
choke (fonds  d'artichauts)  ;  but  as  this  is  not  always  ob- 
tainable, it  may  be  replaced  by  a  pretty,  pale-green  lettuce 
heart.     Mix  the  dressing  ;  pour  it  over  the  salad  ;  set  away 

2  hours  ;  add  the  heart  of  lettuce  at  the  last  moment,  and 
serve  very  cold.  This  is  a  pretty  dish  for  supper,  and  is 
good  served  with  cold  game. 

The  above  dressing  may  be  replaced  by  Mustard  Sauce, 
colored  with  a  little  spinach-juice. 

SALAD  A  LA  DEMIDOFF. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes,  sliced,  Truffles,  sliced, 

Cold  boiled  button  onions,  Stoned  olives. 

Rub  the  salad-bowl  with  olive  oil.  Lay  in  alternate  layers 
of  cold  potatoes  (which  have  been  boiled  in  their  skins  and 
only  peeled  when  cold),  and  sliced  truffles,  finishing  with 
truffles.  Around  the  outer  edge,  put  a  circle  of  very  small 
white  button  onions,  alternated  with  olives,  stoned.  Dress 
with  French  Dressing,  substituting  white  wine  for  vinegar, 
if  preferred.  Set  in  the  ice-box  2  hours  before  serving. 
None  but  the  best  truffles  should  be  used. 


334  GOOD-LIVING. 

SIMPLE  POTATO  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   POMMES   DE   TERRE. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  sliced,  i  teaspoon  of  finely-chopped  chervil, 

2  tablespoons  of  pickled  beet,  cut  fine,  I         "         "  "  chives, 
I   tablespoon  of  shredded  smoked  her-               or  onion-juice, 

ring,  I  teaspoon  of  capers, 

i  tablespoon  of  shredded  anchovy,  I  saltspoon  of  salt, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup,  3  tablespoons  of  olive  oil, 

2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  2  "         "  ice-water, 

I  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  1  teaspoon  mushroom  catsup, 

1         "         "  finely-chopped  parsley,  Pepper  as  required. 

Use  potatoes  which  have  been  boiled  with  their  skins  on 
and  peeled  when  cold.  Do  not  fail  to  do  this,  as  they  slice 
much  more  neatly.  Add  all  the  ingredients  ;  mix  well,  and 
set  in  the  ice-box  for  2  hours.  This  salad  is  recommended  ; 
it  is  called  "  simple,"  to  distinguish  it  from  the  orthodox 
Potato  Salad,  which  is  said  to  contain  32  ingredients. 

SALAD  OF  LENTILS. 

SALADE   DE   LENTILLES. 
Prepare  exactly  as  for  Red  Bean  Salad  (see  seceipt). 

CHICKEN  SALAD   WITH  LETTUCE. 

MAYONNAISE   DE   VOLAILLE. 

I  pint  of  cold  boiled  chicken,  2  gills  of  Mayonnaise  Sauce, 

1  head  of  lettuce,  crisped,  French  Dressing. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  small  dice  ;  do  not  chop  it  for  this 
salad.  Pour  over  it  half  the  quantity  given  for  French 
Dressing ;  let  it  stand  for  several  hours  in  the  ice-box. 
When  ready  to  serve,  put  the  chicken  in  a  neat  mound  in 
the  salad-bowl ;  arrange  the  lettuce  around,  and  spread  the 
Mayonnaise  (see  receipt)  over  it.  Put  the  heart  of  the  let- 
tuce in  the  centre.  Garnish  with  olives,  strips  of  beet, 
pickles,  capers,  hard-boiled  eggs,  etc.,  according  to  taste. 


VEAL   SALAD.  335 

CHICKEN  AND  CELERY  SALAD. 

1  pint  of  cold  chicken,  cut  in  dice,  I  pint  of  celery,  cut  in  pieces, 

2  gills  of  Mayonnaise  or  Mustard  Dressing,  French  Dressing. 

Mix  the  chicken  as  described  above  with  French  Dressing, 
of  which  use  I  tablespoonful  of  oil  instead  of  3.  Set  away 
for  several  hours  in  the  ice-box.  When  ready  to  serve,  mix 
the  celery  with  the  chicken  ;  arrange  it  in  a  neat  mound  ; 
cover  with  Mayonnaise  or  Mustard  Dressing  (see  receipts) ; 
edge  with  the  white  celery  leaves,  and  garnish  as  above. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Lettuce  or  celery  (1  pint),  French  Dressing, 

1  scant  pint  of  chicken,  cut  fine,  1  gill  of  grated  bread-crumbs, 

2  gills  of  Mustard  Dressing  or  Mayonnaise. 

Mix  together  the  chopped  chicken,  crumbs,  and  French 
Dressing.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  the  Mustard  Dressing 
(see  receipt)  and  celery  or  lettuce  as  above. 

TURKE  Y  OLIO. 

I  pint  of  turkey,  chopped  fine,  I  pint  of  celery,  cut  fine. 

French  Dressing, 

Mix  together  turkey,  celery,  and  dressing,  Set  in  the  ice- 
box for  1  hour.  Add  a  little  more  vinegar  than  directed  for 
plain  dressing,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  This  is  a  delicious 
dish. 

VEAL  SALAD. 

MAYONNAISE   DE   VEAU. 

1  pint  of  tender  cold  veal,  cut  in  dice,  French  Dressing, 

2  gills  Mayonnaise  or  Mustard  Dressing,  1  head  crisped  lettuce. 

Put  the  veal  in  the  salad-bowl,  mixed  with  the  French 
Dressing.  Set  it  in  the  ice-box  for  1  hour.  Arrange  it  in  a 
neat  mound.     Cover  with  Mayonnaise,  and  garnish  with  let- 


336  GOOD-LIVING. 

tuce.  The  Mayonnaise  may  be  replaced  by  a  larger  quantity 
of  French  Dressing  or  by  Mustard  Dressing.  Add  a  dash 
of  tarragon  vinegar  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  It  is  further 
improved  by  the  addition  of  a  crust  of  stale  bread  rubbed 
with  onion  01  garlic,  and  mixed  through  the  salad.  This 
cliapon  improves  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  salad. 

BOUIILI  SALAD. 

SALADE   DE   BOUILLI. 

I  pint  of  cold  boiled  beef,  6  hard-boiled  eggs, 

I  teaspoon  of  chopped  chives  or  Cayenne, 

grated  onion,  Tarragon  vinegar, 

I  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  Remoulade  or  Vinaigrette  Sauce. 

Do  not  chop  the  beef  too  fine,  rather  cut  it  in  small  dice. 
Cut  the  eggs  up  in  the  same  way  ;  add  parsley,  chives.  Pour 
over  the  sauce  (see  receipts).  Add  a  dash  of  cayenne  and 
extra  vinegar  to  taste.  Mix  and  set  away  for  at  least  I  hour 
before  serving.     Excellent. 

MA  YONNAISE  OF  SWEETBREADS. 

MAYONNAISE   DE   RIS   DE    VEAU. 

1  pair  of  large  sweetbreads,  i  head  of  lettuce, 

2  gills  of  Mayonnaise,  I  teaspoon  of  tarragon  vinegar. 

Clean  and  boil  the  sweetbreads  as  directed,  for  20  minutes 
(see  receipt).  When  cooked,  remove  all  skin  and  fibres  and 
set  away  to  cool.  Then  cut  them  into  small,  even  dice. 
Crisp  the  lettuce  (see  receipt).  Make  the  Mayonnaise  (see 
receipt)  in  a  soup-plate,  the  bottom  of  which  you  have 
rubbed  with  the  cut  side  of  half  an  onion.  Add  a  little 
tarragon  vinegar.  Mix  the  Mayonnaise  with  the  sweet- 
breads ;  arrange  them  in  a  mound  in  the  salad-bowl,  sur- 
rounded by  a  row  of  lettuce  leaves.  If  a  stronger  flavor  of 
onion  is  liked,  cut  a  small  crust  of  bread,  rub  it  all  over  with 
onion,  and  mix  it  through  the  sweetbreads.  This  chapon 
must  of  course  not  be  served.  Garlic  may  be  used  instead 
of  onion  for  the  latter. 


HARD-BOILED  EGG  SALAD.  337 

SARDINE  SALAD. 

SALADE  DE   SARDINES. 

Skin  and  quarter  the  fish.  Finish  as  directed  for  Shad- 
Roe  Salad. 

SCALLOP  SALAD. 
See  receipt  in  chapter  on  Shell-Fish.  Highly  recommended. 

LOBSTER  MA  YONNAISE. 

MAYONNAISE   DE   HOMARD. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  lobster  meat,  I  head  of  crisped  lettuce, 

2  gills  of  Mayonnaise  or  Mustard  Dress-     All  the  fat,  both  green  and  red,  of  the 

ing,  lobster. 

Cut  the  lobster  meat  in  f  inch  dice.  Put  it  into  a  bowl, 
and  set  it  on  the  ice.  Make  a  Mayonnaise,  or  a  Mustard 
Dressing,  adding  to  the  latter  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Into  this 
sauce  mix  every  atom  of  fat,  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  i  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  or  Maille  vinegar,  if  you  can 
do  so  without  thinning  the  sauce  too  much.  Have  your 
curled  lettuce  well  crisped  (see  receipt).  Separate  the  leaves. 
Having  mixed  together  the  lobster  and  dressing,  fill  each 
curled  leaf  with  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture,  as  a 
cup.  Arrange  tastefully  on  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  very  cold. 
This  is  not  only  very  pretty,  but  delicious. 

HARD-BOILED  EGG  SALAD. 

CEUFS   DURS   EN   SALADE. 
6  or  8  hard-boiled  eggs,  Remoulade  or  Vinaigrette  Sauce. 

Boil  the  eggs  (see  receipt).  Slice  them.  Arrange  neatly 
on  a. dish  with  either  sauce  (see  receipt)  poured  over.  Set  in 
the  ice-box  at  least  I  hour  before  serving. 


338  GOOD-LIVING. 

MA  YONNAISE  OF  SALMON. 

MAYONNAISE   DE   SAUMON. 

Boil  2  salmon  steaks  as  directed  (see  Boiled  Salmon). 
Flake  the  fish.  Heap  it  in  a  salad-bowl,  having  mixed  it 
with  French  Dressing.  Set  it  in  the  ice-box.  When  ready 
to  serve,  cover  with  Mayonnaise  or  with  Mustard  Dressing 
(see  receipts) ;  garnish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  hard-boiled 
eggs,  pickled  beets,  olives,  etc.,  to  taste.     Serve  cold. 

SALMON  WITH  MAYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

SAUMON,    SAUCE   MAYONNAISE. 

This  makes  a  very  handsome  dish  for  supper.  Select 
a  fine  large  salmon  ;  boil  as  directed  (see  receipt).  When 
boiled,  place  between  2  dishes  and  set  away  to  cool,  with  a 
little  of  the  fish-stock  poured  over  to  keep  it  moist.  Make 
2  or  3  times  the  quantity  of  Mayonnaise  indicated  in  the 
receipt.  When  ready,  dish  the  fish  carefully  on  a  long  fish- 
dish  ;  spread  the  Mayonnaise  over  the  entire  fish ;  garnish  it 
tastefully  with  sliced  lemon,  crisped  lettuce  leaves,  pickled 
beets,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  olives.  Set  in  a  very  cold  place 
until  ready  to  serve. 

SHAD-ROE  SALAD. 

1  pair  of  shad-roes,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

2  gills  of  Mayonnaise  or  Mustard  Dressing,         Onion. 

Wash  the  roes.  Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  the  salt 
and  boiling  water  to  cover.  Boil  very  gently  20  minutes. 
Remove ;  drain  ;  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  cut  in  dice. 
Make  the  Mayonnaise  (see  receipt)  in  a  plate,  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  which  have  been  rubbed  with  the  cut  side  of  an 
onion.  Set  it  in  the  ice-box  until  wanted.  Crisp  the  lettuce 
(see  receipt).  When  ready  to  serve,  arrange  the  shad-roes  in 
a  salad-bowl ;  cover  with  the  dressing  ;  arrange  the  lettuce  in 


SHRIMP    SALAD.  339 

a  circle  around,  and  serve.  If  the  flavor  of  onion  is  liked, 
add  to  the  salad  a  diapon  as  described  in  Mayonnaise  of 
Sweetbread  ;  garlic  may  be  used  instead  of  onion. 

CRAB  SALAD. 
See  receipt  for  same  in  chapter  on  Shell-Fish. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

SALADE    DE    CREVETTES. 

Boil  the  shrimps  in  salted  boiling  water  until  the  shells 
turn  pink.  When  cold,  remove  the  meat  from  the  shells 
without  breaking  it.  When  very  cold,  add  to  every  pint  of 
shrimp-meat  2  gills  of  Mayonnaise  or  Mustard  Dressing. 
Have  ready  a  head  of  crisp,  curled  lettuce.  Arrange  the 
mayonnaise  of  shrimps  in  the  separated  lettuce  leaves,  put- 
ting about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture  into  each  leaf,  as 
in  a  shell ;  arrange  the  leaves  tastefully  on  a  flat  dish  and 
serve  very  cold.  Lobster,  crab,  or  other  mayonnaise  may  be 
served  in  the  same  way  ;  it  is  no  more  trouble,  and  makes  a 
very  much  prettier  dish. 


SAVORY   RELISHES. 


WELSH  RARE-BIT. 

2  cups  of  grated  cheese,  2  eggs,  yolks  only, 

1  gill  of  milk  or  porter,  Salt  and  cayenne  to  taste. 

Cut  thin,  square  slices  of  bread  ;  remove  the  crusts  and 
toast  them.  While  hot,  butter  generously,  and  moisten  with 
a  few  teaspoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Keep  them  hot  while 
the  rare-bit  is  being  prepared.  Stand  the  milk  (wine  or 
porter)  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  when 
boiling,  add  the  cheese  (fresh  American  cheese  is  best)  ;  stir 
constantly  until  the  cheese  is  entirely  dissolved.  Add  cay- 
enne and  salt.  Have  the  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream. 
Stir  them  rapidly  into  the  cheese,  and  pour  immediately 
over  the  hot  toast.  Serve  quickly  on  a  hot-water  plate  or 
very  hot  dish,  as  standing  spoils  it.  If  the  cheese  is  not  very 
rich,  add  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Beer,  ale, 
or  porter  should  always  accompany  Welsh  rare-bit. 

Note. — Should  the  rare-bit  be  stringy,  it  is  due  to  the  fact 
of  the  cheese  not  being  sufficiently  rich. 

GOLDEN  BUCK. 

2  cups  of  grated  cheese  %  teaspoon  of  made  mustard, 
%  teaspoon  of  salt,                             Cayenne, 
6  poached  eggs,                                   6  squares  of  buttered  toast, 

I  cup  of  milk,  red  wine,  or  porter. 

Prepare  the  toast  as  for  Welsh  Rare-bit.  Bring  the  milk 
(wine  or  porter)  to  a  boil  in  a  china-lined  saucepan  ;  add  the 
cheese,  mustard,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Stir  continually  until 
the  cheese  is  dissolved.  Pour  it  on  the  hot  toast.  Mean- 
while, poach  the  eggs  (see  receipt).  Put  an  egg  on  the  top 
34° 


TOASTED   CHEESE.  34 1 

of  each  piece  of  toast ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  serve 
very  hot  as  above  directed.  Do  not  let  it  stand  a  minute. 
Beer,  ale,  or  porter  should  be  served  at  the  same  time. 

CHEESE  STRAWS. 

1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  cup  of  flour, 

Butter,  size  of  an  egg,  Cold  water, 

Cayenne. 

Mix  together  the  flour  and  cheese ;  add  cayenne,  then 
butter  ;  add  enough  cold  water  to  make  a  paste  ;  roll  out 
thin  ;  cut  in  strips  \  inch  wide  by  7  inches  long,  and  bake. 
They  will  take  a  very  few  minutes  to  bake  if  the  oven  is  hot. 
Serve,  when  cold,  tied  in  a  bunch  with  a  fresh  ribbon. 

CHEESE  FONDU. 

}i  pound  of  sifted  flour,  3  eggs, 

Y%       "      grated  Gruyere  and  Parmesan,  }i  pound  of  butter, 

mixed,  1  gill  of  milk  or  cream, 

Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Melt  the  butter ;  stir  in  the  flour  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Add  the  boiling  milk ;  stir  and  boil  for  about  2  minutes  until 
very  thick.  Remove  from  the  fire.  When  slightly  cooled, 
work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  cheese. 
Mix  thoroughly.  Have  ready  buttered  I  pudding-dish  or 
several  small  souffle-cases.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very 
stiff  froth  ;  beat  them  into  the  mixture  ;  fill  the  dish  §  full 
of  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for 
about  20  to  25  minutes.  Serve  immediately.  This  dish 
must  not  stand. 

TOASTED   CHEESE. 

1  cup  of  grated  cheese,  I  gill  of  cream, 

Cayenne,  1  yolk  of  egg, 

Butter,  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut. 

Have  ready  neatly  trimmed,  very  small  pieces  of  buttered 
toast  cut  in  squares  or  circles.    Melt  the  cheese  slowly  in  the 


342  GOOD-LIVING. 

boiling  cream  over  the  fire  ;  when  hot,  remove  ;  stir  in  the 
yolk  of  egg  and  butter.  Put  the  toast  on  a  hot-water  dish  ; 
spread  the  cheese  over  the  toast  and  serve  immediately,  or 
it  will  toughen.  The  dish  may  be  placed  before  the  fire  to 
let  the  cheese  toast  before  serving.  Excellent  for  luncheon 
or  supper. 

CHEESE  SALAD. 

Yz  pound  of  grated  cheese,  i  tablespoon  of  olive  oil, 

I  teaspoon  of  salt,  I  hard-boiled  egg, 

I       "  of  sugar,  %.  saltspoon  of  cayenne, 

i  tablespoon  of  onion  or  Maille  vinegar,  i  teaspoon  of  made  mustard. 

Rub  together  to  a  paste  the  yolk  of  egg  and  oil ;  add,  first, 
salt,  then  pepper,  sugar,  mustard  ;  when  well  mixed,  add  the 
cheese.  Mix  again.  Add  vinegar.  Serve  in  crab-shells  or 
in  small  china  cases.  Eat  with  biscuits  and  butter.  One 
cup  of  cold  minced  chicken  may  be  added  as  an  improve- 
ment.    Good  for  luncheon  and  supper. 

N.  B. — The  above  is  considered  to  have  the  flavor  of  crab- 
salad,  and  is  sometimes  called  Mock  Crab  Salad. 

SARDINES  ON  TOAST  WITH  CHEESE. 

Prepare  thin  slices  of  crisp,  buttered  toast.  Drain  the  oil 
from  the  sardines  ;  skin  and  split  them.  Lay  them  on  the 
toast.  Set  in  the  oven  until  thoroughly  hot,  but  be  careful 
not  to  let  the  toast  dry  too  much.  The  sardines  may  first 
be  given  a  thin  coating  of  grated  Parmesan.  Serve  immedi- 
ately on  a  hot-water  plate.     Good  for  supper. 

DEVILLED  BISCUIT  WITH  CHEESE. 

Take  some  Bent's  water  crackers,  or  other  water  bis- 
cuits ;  split  them  ;  butter  each  half  generously ;  sprinkle 
over  it  a  layer  of  cheese  ;  set  these  in  a  baking-pan.  Dust 
over  with  cayenne,  and  set  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  5  min- 
utes. As  soon  as  the  cheese  is  melted,  serve  very  hot. 
Excellent  for  supper. 


BOMB  A  Y  TOAST.  343 

PLAIN  DE  VILLED  BISCUIT. 

Split  biscuit  as  above  ;  butter  thickly  ;  season  with  cay- 
enne ;  set  in  a  biscuit-pan  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely 
browned.     Serve  immediately  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

ANCHOVY  TOAST. 

Make  thin,  evenly-browned  slices  of  toast,  from  which 
remove  the  crust.  Butter  thickly  ;  spread  lightly  with  an- 
chovy-paste ;  set  for  1  minute  in  the  open  oven  and  serve 
immediately  on  a  hot-water  plate  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

INDIAN  SANDWICHES. 

Prepare  thin  slices  of  bread  as  for  toast.  Cut  them  round 
with  a  sharp  tin  cutter.  Fry  as  Croutons  (see  receipt).  Take 
some  very  finely-minced  chicken  ;  mix  with  it  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  ham  or  tongue  ;  stir  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  White 
Sauce  (see  receipt),  in  which  have  been  blended  curry-pow- 
der, and  lemon-juice  to  taste.  Warm  in  a  stewpan.  Place 
a  spoonful  of  the  mixture  between  every  2  slices  of  toast. 
Arrange   on  a  folded  napkin  or  cut   paper  and  serve  hot. 

N.  B. — -The  filling  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  soft 
paste  ;   it  must  not  run.     Very  good  for  luncheon  or  supper. 

SCOTCH  WOODCOCK. 

Chop  2  hard-boiled  eggs  fine  ;  put  them  into  a  saucepan 
with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  melted  with  2  of  anchovy 
sauce.  When  dissolved,  serve  on  small  rounds  of  buttered 
toast  neatly  arranged  on  a  hot-water  plate.  Do  not  boil,  but 
heat  thoroughly. 

BOMB  A  Y  TOAST. 

Put  a  large  spoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  over  boiling 
water ;  as  it  melts,  stir  in  2  eggs,  cayenne,  essence  of  anchovy, 
and  a  few  chopped  capers.  Stir  until  the  eggs  begin  to  set. 
Spread  on  small  rounds  of  buttered  toast.  Serve  on  a  hot- 
water  plate  as  above. 


344  GOOD-LIVING. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Select  the  best  paper-shelled  almonds.  Remove  the  shells. 
Put  them  in  a  bowl.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them  and  let 
stand  for  15  or  20  minutes.  By  that  time  the  skins  will  slip 
off  easily.  Skin  them.  Lay  the  almonds  on  a  tin  pie-plate 
without  drying  them.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  salt  and  turn 
them  over  that  the  salt  may  touch  all  sides.  Place  them  in 
a  moderately-hot  oven,  shaking  occasionally,  and  turning  the 
pan,  if  one  side  browns  quicker  than  the  other.  When  golden 
brown,  remove  them  from  the  oven.  Pick  out  the  almonds 
and  throw  aside  the  extra  salt  that  remains. 

Some  authorities  advocate  dipping  first  in  white  of  egg, 
then  in  salt  ;  but  experience  of  this  method  has  shown  that 
the  almonds  take  up  too  thick  a  coating  of  salt  to  be 
agreeable. 

A  great  addition  to  the  above  receipt  is  to  put  I  teaspoon- 
ful  of  olive  oil  to  1  cupful  of  shelled  almonds,  which  have 
been  dried  in  a  cloth.  Let  each  nut  receive  its  coating  of 
the  oil ;  then  add  about  I  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
finish  as  above.  Almonds  prepared  according  to  this  last 
method  are  delicious. 


ORDER  OF  SERVICE  OF  A  DINNER. 

As  it  does  not  enter  into  the  plan  of  the  present  work  to  give 
a  list  of  menus,  it  may  not  be  amiss  to  give  a  general  outline  of 
the  proper  order  of  service  of  dinner,  (see  below)  leaving  the 
hostess  to  select  the  dishes.  One  suggestion  offered  is,  that, 
in  the  composition  of  a  menu  repetition  should  be  avoided  ; 
do  not  allow  any  two  white  sauces,  or  brown  sauces,  any  two 
fried  meats,  or  fried  fish  and  meat,  to  follow  each  other  so  closely 
as  to  be  noticeable.  It  is  advisable,  also,  to  select  such  dishes 
as  the  cook  is  perfectly  familiar  with  ;  that,  when  required 
to  give  her  attention  to  the  entertainment  of  her  guests,  the 
hostess  may  not  be  preoccupied  with  fears  of  how  Bridget  may 
see  fit  to  interpret  some  new  receipt.  Again,  do  not  attempt 
too  complicated  or  lengthy  a  menu,  for  it  is  not  quantity 
which  makes  a  successful  dinner,  but  quality,  tasteful  arrange- 
ment and  garnishing,  and  neat,  orderly  service. 

Form  of  menu  for  6  or  8  persons  : 

Raw  Oysters  or  Clams. 

Soup,  such  as  Consomme  or  Bisque,  etc. 

Hors  d'CEuvre ;    Olives,  Radishes,  Celery. 

Fish,  such  as  Sheepshead,  Sauce  Hollandaise,  with  Potatoes  au  Court  Bouillon. 

I  or  2  Entrees,  such  as  Croquettes,  Vol-au-vent,  Sweetbreads  ;  or, 

Filets  Mignons,  Salmi,  etc.,  etc. 

Vegetable,  such  as  Cauliflower  with  Tomato  Sauce,  Celery  au  Jus,  etc. 

Roast,  such  as  Saddle  of  Mutton,  with  vegetable,  such  as  green  peas. 

Game  and  Salad. 

Dessert  ;    Ices,  Cakes,  etc.,  etc. 

Coffee  and  Liqueurs. 

N.  B. — Should  Game  not  be  used,  serve  the  Salad  with  the  Roast  in  place  of 
the  vegetable  there  mentioned.     Should  cheese  be  used,  serve  after  dessert. 

For  a  dinner  of  1 2  or  more  persons  there  may  be  added  to 
the  above  a  Bouch6  of  some  kind  after  "the  Hors  d  CEuvre  ; 

345 


346 


GOOD-LIVING. 


and,  if  liked,  Roman  Punch  may  be  served  between  the 
Roast  and  Game.  If  2  soups  should  be  required  for  a  large 
dinner,  let  one  be  a  clear  Consomme  or  Bouillon,  the  other 
a  Bisque  or  Puree.  For  the  family  dinner,  the  above  may,  of 
course,  be  modified  according  to  requirements. 


RELISHES    FOR    BREAKFAST. 

The  following  suggestions  are  offered  as  an  assistance 
in  ordering  breakfast.  The  receipts  will  be  readily  found 
by  reference  to  the  index.  The  receipts  for  cooking  the 
various  cereals,  such  as  oatmeal,  cracked-wheat,  etc.,  are  not 
given,  as  each  package  has  upon  it  the  directions  for  its  use, 
which  vary  so  much  with  the  different  modes  of  preparing 
the  same  cereals  for  market,  that  it  has  been  deemed  unwise 
to  fix  any  rules  for  them  in  the  present  work. 


EGGS. 


Omelet,  Plain, 

"        with  Tomatoes, 

"        Fine  Herbs, 

"       Asparagus  Tips, 

"        Kidneys  and  Tomatoes, 

"        Ham, 

' '        Spanish, 

Stirred  or  Scrambled  Eggs, 
' '      with  Asparagus  Tips, 
"      with  Tomatoes,  etc.. 


Eggs,  Boiled,  Soft  and  Hard, 

"  Fried, 

"        "       with  Bacon, 

"  Poached, 

"  a  l'Aurore, 

"  Fried  with  Ham, 

"  sur  le  Plat, 

"  sur  le  Plat,  Tomato  Sauce, 

"  en  Caisses, 

"  with  Smoked  Beef,  etc. 


FISH. 


Kippered  Herring, 
Potomac  Roe-Herring, 
Yarmouth  Bloaters, 
Salt  Mackerel,  Broiled, 
Finnan  Haddie, 
Fish  a.  la  Delmonico, 
Mock  Turbot  a.  la  Creme, 
"Breakfast  Fish," 
Codfish  Balls  or  Croquettes, 
Herring  Balls, 
Coddled  Oysters, 
Stewed  Oysters, 


Stewed  Clams, 
Roasted  Clams, 
Fried  Sea-Bass, 

"     or  Broiled  Kingfish, 
"     Smelt, 

"     Small  White-Fish, 
Broiled  Mackerel, 

"       Spanish  Mackerel, 
"       Shad, 

Small  Blue-Fish, 
Fried  Blue-Fish  Cutlets, 
Oysters  en  Brochette. 


347 


348 


GOOD-LIVING. 


VEGETABLES  AND  CEREALS. 

Broiled  Fresh  Mushrooms,  Fried  Samp, 

Corn  Oysters,  "      Hominy, 

Potatoes,  Fried  in  Various  Styles,  "      Mush, 

"         Stewed  with  Cream  Sauce,  Boiled  Hominy, 

Potato  Hash,  Fried,  ' '       Oatmeal, 

Cream  Potato  Hash,  Cracked  Wheat, 

Plain  Baked  Tomatoes,  Wheaten  Grits, 

Fried  Tomatoes,  Cornmeal  Mush. 


MEATS. 


Corn-Beef  Croquettes, 

Hash, 
Ham  Puffs, 

Westphalia  Croquettes, 
Ham  Toast, 
Tongue  Toast, 

Soused  Pigs'  Feet  or  Pettitoes, 
Fried  Pigs'  Feet, 
Broiled  Ham, 
Fried  Ham  and  Eggs, 

"     Bacon, 
Bacon,  Fried  in  Batter, 
Toasted  Bacon, 
Fried  Bacon  and  Eggs, 
Scrapple, 
Head-Cheese, 
Pork  Tenderloins, 

"     Chops, 
Sausages,  Fried,  or  with  Fried  Apples, 
Home-Made  Breakfast  Sausage, 
Mutton,  Loin  Chops,  Broiled, 
Rib  Chops,  Broiled, 
Cutlets,  Broiled, 
Lamb  Chops, 
Veal  Chops,  Saute, 
Veal  Cutlets,  Saute  or  Fried, 
Calfs'  Brains  au  Beurre  Noir, 
Liver  and  Bacon, 


Liver,  Saute, 

Fourchette, 

Lambs'  Kidneys  en  Brochette, 

Broiled, 
Beef's  "  Stewed  with  Wine, 

"  Saute, 

"  "  Broiled, 

Broiled  Porter-House  Steak, 

"       Beefsteak  with  Fried  Potatoes, 
"     Plain       Baked 
Tomatoes, 
Broiled  Beefsteak  with  Fried  Tomatoes 
"       a  la  Shrewsbury,  with 
Broiled  Mushrooms, 
Broiled  Steak,  Stewed  Mushrooms, 
"  "       Maitre  d' Hotel  Butter, 

"  "       a  la  Bearnaise, 

Smoked  Beef  with  Cream  Sauce, 

"  "     with  Eggs, 

Turkey  Hash, 
Chicken  Hash, 
Cream  of  Veal, 

' '      of  Chicken, 
Broiled  Chicken, 
Boston  Brown  Hash, 
Hash,  Browned  in  a  Mould, 
Meat  Sausages, 
Chicken  Livers,  Saute. 


HOT  CAKES,   ETC 


349 


HOT    CAKES,    ETC. 


Buckwheat  Cakes, 

Flannel-Cakes  and  All  Kinds  of  Grid- 
dle Cakes, 
Sally  Lunn, 
Virginia  Batter  Cake, 
Muffins  of  All  Kinds, 
Crumpets, 

Gems  of  Various  Kinds, 
Breakfast  Puffs, 


Laplanders, 

Pop-Overs, 

Corn-Bread, 

Corn  Drops, 

Johnny  Cake, 

Hoe-Cake  and  other  Corn  Cakes, 

Biscuits, 

Hot  Rolls. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 


EGGS. 
EGGS  SUR  LE  PLAT. 

CEUFS    SUR   LE   PLAT. 

Butter  a  fire-proof  plate  or  pie-tin  ;  carefully  break  upon 
it  as  many  eggs  as  it  will  hold  side  by  side.  Sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Put  in  the  oven  until  the  white  is  set, 
about  5  minutes.  To  make  more  perfect,  heat  the  kitchen 
shovel  red-hot  and  hold  it  close  over  the  eggs  for  a  few 
seconds,  until  the  yolks  also  are  slightly  set,  then  serve  im- 
mediately. They  must  not  stand.  If  preferred,  sift  grated 
cheese  over  the  top.     This  makes  a  nice  dish  for  luncheon. 

EGGS  SUR  LE  PLA  T  WLTH  HAM. 

GEUFS    SUR   LE    PLAT   AU    JAMBON. 

Lay  a  few  thin  slices  of  ham  on  a  plate  as  above ;  set  it 
in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  the  range  to  heat  through  ;  then 
break  the  eggs  upon  it,  and  finish  as  above. 

EGGS  SUR  LE  PLAT  WLTH  ASPARAGUS  LLPS. 

GEUFS   SUR   LE   PLAT,    POINTES   D'ASPERGES. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  buttered  plate  (see  above)  with 
stewed  Asparagus  Tips  (see  receipt)  ;  heat  ;  then  break  in 
the  eggs  and  finish  as  above, 

35o 


PLAIN  OMELET.  3$  I 

EGGS  SUR  LE  PLAT,   TOMATO  SAUCE. 

CEUFS    SUR   LE    PLAT,    SAUCE    TOMATE. 

Having  prepared  the  eggs  as  for  Eggs  sur  le  Plat,  have 
ready  heated  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce,  which  pour  over  the 
eggs.     Set  in  the  oven  I  minute,  and  serve  very  hot. 

N.B. — The  eggs  must  be  set  firm,  as  described,  before  the 
sauce  is  added. 

EGGS  A  LA    TRLPE. 

CEUFS    A    LA   TRIPE. 

Boil  the  number  of  eggs  required  as  directed  for  Hard- 
boiled  Eggs.  When  cold,  cut  in  quarters.  Prepare  a  sauce 
as  follows:  Stew  I  chopped  onion  in  I  tablespoonful  of 
butter  gently,  until  tender  ;  add  salt  and  pepper,  I  heaping 
teaspoonful  of  flour  blended  with  I  cup  of  cream  or  rich 
milk,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar.  Boil  gently 
for  5  minutes,  stirring  continually.  When  thick  and  smooth, 
pour  the  sauce  over  the  eggs,  and  serve  very  hot. 

PLALN  OMELET. 

OMELETTE. 

3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  milk, 

j^  teaspoon  of  flour,  Salt  and  pepper, 

Butter  size  of  a  pigeon's  egg. 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks 
smooth ;  then  add  to  them  milk,  pepper  and  salt,  and  pinch 
of  flour ;  beat  to  a  cream.  Now  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth ;  then  beat  together  the  whites  and  yolks  until 
perfectly  smooth  and  not  too  frothy.  Have  the  butter 
melted  in  a  very  smooth,  medium-sized  frying-pan,  which 
should  be  hot  but  not  scorching.  Pour  in  the  mixture  ;  let 
it  stand  a  minute  or  two  ;  then  loosen  the  edges  with  a 
knife  ;  shake  the  pan  occasionally  to  prevent  sticking.  Then 
draw  the  pan  a  little  aside,  where  it  will  cook  more  slowly. 


352  GOOD-LIVING. 

When  the  edges  seem  to  be  quite  set,  the  pan  with  the 
omelet  may  be  put  into  the  oven  for  about  i  minute  to  set 
the  centre,  but  this  is  not  indispensable.  Now  fold  the 
omelet  in  2  or  3,  making  it  long  and  narrow.  Turn  a 
hot  dish  downward  over  the  omelet ;  with  a  quick  move- 
ment turn  both  pan  and  dish  over ;  garnish  the  omelet 
with  parsley  and  serve  immediately,  or  it  will  fall.  The 
chief  points  in  making  a  good  omelet  are  these :  The 
eggs  should  be  perfectly  fresh,  the  pan  perfectly  smooth, 
not  too  hot,  and  well-greased  on  bottom  and  sides  with  but- 
ter ;  the  heat  of  the  fire  should  be  so  managed  as  to  neither 
scorch  the  outside  by  too  quick  a  heat,  before  the  centre  is 
cooked,  nor  make  it  tough  and  leathery  by  too  little  heat. 
A  successfully-made  omelet  should  always  be  slightly 
"  fluffy  "  in  the  centre,  but  must  be  more  flaky  than  fluffy 
through  the  rest ;  therefore,  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  well 
together  before  cooking  ;  last,  but  not  least,  serve  it  the 
moment  it  is  done. 

OMELET  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

OMELETTE,   SAUCE   TOMATE. 

Make  a  Plain  Omelet,  or,  Parsley  Omelet  (see  receipts). 
Prepare  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Pour  the  sauce 
around,  not  over,  the  omelet.     Serve  immediately. 

HAM   OMELET. 

OMELETTE   AU   JAMBON. 

3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  milk, 

#"  teaspoon  of  flour,  2         "         "  chopped  ham, 

yi,         "         "  grated  onion,  or  I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley, 

I  tablespoon  of  chopped  chives,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream.  Add  to  them  all  the  other  in- 
gredients. Mix  smooth.  Add  whites  beaten  to  a  froth. 
Beat  all  well  together.  Melt  I  teaspoonful  of  butter  in  a 
medium-sized  pan.  When  hot,  pour  in  the  mixture.  Finish 
like  Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt). 


OYSTER   OMELET.  353 

CREOLE  OMELET. 

TORTILLA. 

Ham  Omelet,  6  Baked  Tomatoes  (see  receipt). 

Make  the  Ham  Omelet  according  to  receipt.  Have 
ready  the  tomatoes,  which  should  be  of  uniform  size.  Gar- 
nish the  omelet  with  these  and  serve  immediately. 

TOMATO  0 ME LET. 

OMELETTE   AUX   TOMATES. 

Parsley  Omelet,  Stewed  tomatoes. 

Make  a  Parsley  Omelet  as  directed  ;  have  ready  about 
2  gills  of  thick,  fruity,  stewed  tomatoes,  highly  seasoned. 
When  the  omelet  is  cooked,  pour  the  tomatoes  across  the 
centre  ;  fold  and  serve  (see  Plain  Omelet).  If  you  have  no 
stewed  tomatoes  at  hand,  peel  and  cut  some  raw  ;  put  them 
in  a  frying-pan  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  cook  over  a  very 
quick  fire  for  about  15  minutes.     Season  and  finish  as  above. 

OYSTER  OMELET 

OMELETTE   AUX   HUITRES. 

12  large  or  equal  bulk  of  small  oysters,  6  eggs, 

4  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  gill  of  milk, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  Pepper, 

1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Salt. 

Fry  the  oysters,  after  drying  them  thoroughly  in  a  cloth, 
in  very  hot  butter  until  slightly  browned.  Keep  them  hot 
while  you  prepare  the  omelet.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  the  eggs  separately.  To  the  yolks  add  parsley,  salt, 
pepper,  milk,  and  flour,  beating  very  smooth.  Melt  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter  and  beat  that  into  the  eggs.  Mean- 
while have  the  omelet-pan  (a  large  one  for  the  above 
quantity),  heating  on  the  fire  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 
Do  not  let  the  pan  get  too  hot.  Do  not  allow  the  butter  to 
23 


354  GOOD-LI  VING. 

fry,  simply  to  heat  quietly.  Now  beat  the  whites  vigorously 
into  the  yolks ;  beat  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  quite 
smooth.  Pour  the  mixture  into  the  pan,  which  must  be 
placed  where  it  will  have  an  even,  steady,  but  not  too 
intense  heat.  Detach  the  edges  of  the  omelet  with  a  knife. 
When  set  firm  enough,  lay  the  hot  oysters  across  the 
centre  ;  fold  the  omelet ;  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 

SARDINE   OMELET. 

OMELETTE   AUX    SARDINES. 

4  or  6  sardines,  Plain  Omelet. 

Skin  the  sardines ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  on  the  side  of 
the  fire.  They  may  be  divided  into  4  or  more  pieces  each, 
according  to  size.  Warm  very  carefully  but  thoroughly. 
When  the  Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt)  is  set,  lay  the  sardines 
across  the  centre,  fold  it,  and  serve  immediately  as  directed. 


WHITEBAIT  OMELET 

X  pound  of  whitebait,  Plain  Omelet. 

Prepare  the  Whitebait  as  directed  (see  receipt).  Prepare 
a  Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt).  When  the  latter  is  set,  lay 
the  fish  across  the  centre,  fold  the  omelet  over,  and  serve  as 
directed.  Or,  cook  the  whitebait  (or  use  those  already 
cooked  from  the  day  before) ;  beat  them  in  with  the  yolks 
of  eggs  ;  mix  in  the  whites,  and  finish  as  directed.  The  fish 
should  be  seasoned  with  salt  and  cayenne. 

PARSLEY  OMELET 

OMELETTE   AU    PERSIL. 

Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Mix  the  parsley  with  the  yolks  ;  add  whites,  and  finish  as 
directed. 


POTATO   OMELET.  35$ 

OMELETTE  AUX  FINES  HERBES. 

Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  i  tablespoon  of  chives,   chopped  very 

I  tablespoon  of  parsley,  chopped  very  fine, 

fine,  I    tablespoon  of  chervil,  chopped  very 

fine. 

Mix  the  herbs  with  the  yolks ;  add  the  beaten  whites, 
and  finish  as  directed. 

BREAD    OMELET 

OMELETTE   AU    PAIN. 

3  eggs,  X  teaspoon  of  salt, 

I  gill  of  bread-crumbs,  I  gill  of  milk, 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  Pepper  to  taste. ' 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  apart.  Add  to  the  yolks  the 
milk,  salt,  pepper,  and  crumbs.  Mix.  Beat  into  this  the 
whites  ;  mix  thoroughly.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  very  smooth 
frying-pan.  When  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs.  In  a  minute  or 
two  loosen  the  edges  with  a  knife.  When  slightly  firm, 
place  the  pan  in  the  oven  for  i  minute  to  set  the  centre. 
Be  careful  not  to  let  it  harden.  Fold  it  in  2  or  3,  and  dish 
as  directed.  Serve  immediately  or  it  will  fall.  Economical 
and  good.     For  detailed  directions  see  Plain  Omelet. 

POTATO    OMELET 

OMELETTE   AUX    POMMES   DE   TERRE. 

2  boiled  potatoes,  chopped  fine,  X  teaspoon  of  flour, 

2  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  Pepper  and  salt, 
1  tablespoon  of  milk. 

The  potatoes  should  be  boiled  with  their  skins  on,  and 
not  peeled  until  cold.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a 
frying-pan ;  turn  in  the  potatoes ;  turn  with  a  flat  knife 
until  nicely  browned  ;  add  parsley,  pepper,  and  salt,  and  set 
on  one  side  to  keep  hot  while  you  make  a  Plain  Omelet 


356  GOOD-LIVING. 

(see  receipt).  When  the  eggs  are  slightly  set,  sprinkle  in 
the  potatoes,  and  fold.  Serve  immediately ;  an  omelet 
must  never  stand. 

SPANISH  OMELET. 

OMELETTE   A   L'ESPAGNOLE. 

6  eggs,  I  small  onion  or  half-clove  of  garlic, 

3  tablespoons  of  milk,  I  medium-sized  tomato, 

%  pound  of  bacon,  cut  fine,  %  teaspoon  of  flour, 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  5  mushrooms,  chopped. 

Pepper  and  salt. 

Fry  the  bacon  brown ;  add  to  it  tomato,  mushrooms 
chopped  not  too  fine,  and  the  onion  or  garlic  chopped  very 
fine;  stir  over  the  fire  for  15  minutes.  Break  the  eggs 
whites  and  yolks  apart.  Beat  the  yolks  and  add  to  them 
salt,  pepper,  flour,  and  milk.  Add  lastly  the  whites,  and 
beat  until  smooth.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  smooth  frying- 
pan  ;  when  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs ;  in  a  minute  or  two,  loosen 
the  edges  with  a  knife..  When  nearly  set,  pour  in  the 
tomato  mixture ;  fold  over,  and  dish  on  a  hot  platter. 
Serve  immediately.  For  detailed  directions  see  receipt  for 
Plain  Omelet. 

ONION  OMELET. 

OMELETTE   A   L'OGNON. 

Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

I  large  onion,  minced  fine. 

Stew  the  onion  in  butter  until  tender.  Mix  the  omelet  as 
directed  ;  pour  it  into  the  pan  with  the  onion  ;  stir  once  to 
mix,  and  finish  as  above. 

CHEESE   OMELET. 

OMELETTE   AU   FROMAGE. 

Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  }(  cup  cream  or  rich  milk, 

^  cup  of  grated  cheese. 

Mix  the  cheese  with  the  cream ;  stir  smooth  quickly. 
Add  these  to  the  yolks ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste  ;  add  whites  and  finish  as  directed. 


RUM   OMELET.  357 

KIDNEY  OMELET. 

OMELETTE   AUX   ROGNONS,    SAUCE   TOMATE. 

Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  Stewed  Kidney  (see  receipt), 

Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

The  kidneys  should  be  very  carefully  stewed  to  be  tender, 
and  wine  should  be  added.  When  the  omelet  is  ready  to  fold, 
lay  the  kidneys  across  the  centre  ;  fold  ;  dish.  Pour  over 
and  around  a  thick,  rich  Tomato  Sauce,  to  which  must  be 
added  the  remaining  gravy  of  the  kidneys,  and  a  little  more 
wine  if  necessary.     Serve  immediately.     Recommended. 

TRUFFLE   OMELET. 

OMELETTE   AUX   TRUFFES. 

Make  a  Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt).  Slice  the  truffles  ;  heat 
them  very  carefully  with  butter  and  a  very  little  white  wine 
or  sherry.  When  the  omelet  is  ready  to  fold,  place  these  in 
a  row  across  the  centre  ;  fold  ;  dish,  and  serve  immediately. 

MUSHROOM  OMELET. 

OMELETTE  AUX   CHAMPIGNONS. 

Stew  fresh  mushrooms  (see  receipt).  Make  a  Plain 
Omelet  (see  receipt).  When  it  is  ready  to  fold,  place  the 
mushrooms  across  the  centre ;  fold  and  dish.  Pour  the 
mushroom  sauce  over,  and  serve  immediately. 

RUM  OMELET. 

OMELETTE   AU    RHUM. 

Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  I  gill  of  Jamaica  rum, 

Powdered  sugar. 

Omit  pepper  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  sugar  to 
the  yolks,  milk,  and  flour.  Beat  together  whites  and  yolks, 
but  not  as  much  as  for  an  ordinary  omelet.  When  cooked  as 
directed,  put  it  on  a  dish  which  can  be  set  in  the  oven-; 
cover  with  powdered  sugar ;  add  a  little  of  the  rum,  and  set 


358 


GOOD-LIVING. 


it  in  the  oven  for  2  minutes.  Take  it  out ;  add  the  rest  of  the 
rum  ;  set  fire  to  it  with  a  match,  and  serve  while  blazing.  If 
it  is  heated  with  the  rum  it  will  burn  for  a  few  minutes 
longer.     Excellent. 

OMELET  WITH  SWEETMEATS. 

OMELETTE   AUX   CONFITURES. 
Plain  Omelet  (see  receipt),  2  gills  of  preserves. 

Make  the  omelet  as  directed,  omitting  pepper  and  add- 
ing a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  powdered  sugar  to  the  yolks. 
When  ready  to  fold,  spread  the  preserves  in  a  row  across  the 
centre  ;  fold  and  dish.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Heat 
the  kitchen  poker  red-hot,  and  hold  it  diagonally  across  the 
top  of  the  omelet  in  3  places,  for  an  instant.  This  burns 
the  sugar  and  gives  to  the  omelet  the  appearance  of  having 
been  broiled.  Peach  marmalade,  strawberry  preserves,  or 
plum  jam  are  best  for  the  purpose.      Excellent. 

TO  BOIL  EGGS. 

CEUFS   A   LA    COQUE. 

Put  your  eggs  in  a  bowl  which  can  be  sent  to  table.  When 
the  kettle  is  boiling,  pour  the  boiling  water  over  the  eggs.  It 
is  essential  that  the  water  should  be  boiling.  Stand  for  5 
minutes.  Drain.  Add  more  boiling  water.  Let  stand  again 
5  minutes  and  serve. 

This  way  of  boiling  eggs,  though  so  simple,  is  going  out  of 
fashion  in  these  days  ;  unfortunately,  as  it  makes  a  wonder- 
ful difference,  not  only  in  the  appearance  of  the  egg  when 
broken  open,  but,  above  all,  in  its  digestibility.  For  the  use 
of  invalids,  eggs  should  never  be  boiled  in  any  other  way. 

SMOKED  BEEF  AND  EGGS. 

1  cup  of  smoked  beef,  I  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 

6  eggs. 

Put  the  beef  in  a  frying-pan  with  boiling  water  to  cover ; 
scald  5  minutes.  Throw  off  the  water ;  add  a  small  lump  of 
butter.     Break  the  eggs,  meanwhile,  into  a  bowl  ;  beat  until 


TO   BOIL   EGGS  HARD.  359 

smooth  ;  add  1  tablespoonful  of  milk,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and 
pour  the  eggs  into  the  pan  with  the  beef  and  butter.  Stir 
them  over  a  moderately-hot  fire,  always  scraping  the  egg 
from  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Remove  the  pan  from  the  fire 
a  little  before  it  is  firm  enough,  and  continue  to  scrape  the 
egg  from  the  bottom,  as  it  will  continue  to  harden.  Serve  for 
breakfast. 

BAKED  EGGS. 

CEUFS    FARCIS. 

6  eggs,  boiled,  1  egg,  raw, 

2  tablespoons  of  finely-chopped  chicken,  y%  teaspoon  of  ground  mace, 

2  mushrooms,  chopped,  Salt  and  pepper, 

I  tablespoon  of  finely-chopped  parsley,  I  large  slice  of  ham. 

Boil  the  Eggs  Hard  as  described  (see  receipt).  When  cold, 
cut  in  half,  crosswise.  Remove  a  little  slice  from  the  bottom 
to  make  them  stand.  Take  out  the  yolks  ;  rub  them  smooth 
and  add  to  them  chicken,  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  season- 
ings, mixing  well.  Fill  the  whites  with  this,  rounding  up 
the  tops.  Brush  with  the  yolk  of  the  raw  egg  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  brown.  Cut  a  thin  slice  of  boiled  ham  ;  heat  it 
in  the  frying-pan;  divide  it  into  12  small  squares.  When  the 
tops  of  the  eggs  are  browned,  set  them  on  a  hot  dish  with  a 
piece  of  ham  under  each.  Pour  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt) 
around,  not  over,  the  eggs,  and  serve  very  hot.  A  pretty  dish 
for  luncheon. 

TO  BOIL  EGGS  HARD. 

If  to  eat  plain  boiled,  put  the  eggs  into  a  saucepan  of  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  from  6  to  10  minutes.  If  they  are  to  be 
dressed  and  served  cut  in  sections,  they  should  be  put  into  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water  and  boiled  rapidly  for  25  minutes; 
throw  the  water  off  then,  and  allow  cold  water  to  run  over 
them  2  or  3  minutes  ;  then  set  aside  in  fresh  cold  water  20  or 
30  minutes.  If  managed  in  this  way,  the  whites  will  not 
break  as  easily,  nor  the  yolks  crumble  as  much,  when  cut. 
To  remove  the  shells,  roll  them  gently  on  the  table  until  the 
shell  is  cracked  closely  all  over ;  then  you  can  draw  off  skin, 
shell  and  all,  without  marring  the  surface  of  the  egg. 


360  GOOD-LIVING. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

GEUFS   POCHES. 

Put  boiling  water  into  a  frying-pan  with  salt  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Have  ready  rounds 
of  toast  nicely  trimmed  and  buttered.  Break  the  eggs,  1 
by  1,  into  a  saucer;  when  the  water  is  boiling  hard,  draw 
the  frying-pan  aside ;  drop  in  the  eggs  ;  set  the  pan  where  it 
will  simmer  very  gently,  until  the  eggs  are  set  firm  ;  pour 
some  of  the  boiling  water  with  a  spoon  over  the  yolk  of 
each  egg,  just  enough  to  make  a  thin  film  of  white.  When 
set  firm,  remove  with  a  skimmer,  putting  1  egg  on  each 
slice  of  toast.  Trim  off  the  ragged  edges  ;  sprinkle  a  dash 
of  pepper  on  the  very  centre  of  each  egg,  and  serve  very 
hot.     Do  not  let  them  stand. 

N.  B. — Do  not  let  the  water  boil  while  the  eggs  are  cook- 
ing, or  they  will  be  broken  and  ragged. 

POACHED  EGGS,    WITH  ANCHOVY  TOAST. 

CEUFS  AUX  ANCHOIS. 
Make  six  rounds  of  buttered  toast.  Spread  each  lightly 
with  anchovy  paste,  and  set  on  a  hot  dish  in  the  mouth  of 
the  oven.  Poach  six  eggs  as  described  above.  Place  an 
egg  on  each  piece  of  toast ;  pepper  the  top,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

EGGS  AU  BEURRE  NOIR. 

CEUFS  AU  BEURRE  NOIR. 
Melt  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan. 
Break  the  eggs,  1  by  1,  on  a  saucer,  and,  when  the  butter  is 
hot,  slip  them  into  the  pan.  When  the  whites  are  nearly 
set,  baste  the  eggs  with  a  little  of  the  hot  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  eggs  on  a  hot  dish.  Set  the 
pan  on  the  hot  fire,  and,  when  the  butter  is  browned,  add  a 
large  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  over 
the  eggs.  Serve  very  hot.  If  there  is  not  enough  butter  in 
the  pan  after  the  eggs  are  cooked,  add  a  tablespoonful ;  let 
it  fry  brown,  then  add  the  vinegar  as  above. 


EGGS  A   L'AURORE.  36 1 

HAM  AND  EGGS. 

CEUFS  AU   JAMBON. 

The  ham  for  this  should  be  previously  boiled.  Cut  slices 
of  medium  thickness,  I  for  each  egg ;  lay  the  ham  in  a 
hot  frying-pan  ;  fry  for  2  or  3  minutes  on  each  side,  until 
the  fat  is  transparent,  then  lay  it  on  a  hot  platter.  Break 
the  eggs,  1  by  1,  into  a  saucer.  Put  each  into  the  frying-pan 
and  fry  until  the  white  is  quite  set.  The  fat  of  the  ham  is 
generally  sufficient  for  frying  the  eggs  ;  if  not,  add  a  lump 
of  butter.  Remove  the  eggs  ;  lay  each  on  a  separate  piece 
of  ham.  If  the  eggs  merge  into  each  other  in  the  pan,  cut 
them  neatly  apart  with  the  edge  of  the  cake-turner.  Serve 
hot.     This  is  a  national  dish  of  Holland. 

FRIED  EGGS. 

CEUFS   FRITS. 

Proceed  as  above,  omitting  the  ham  and  using  enough 
butter  to  grease  the  pan  thoroughly. 

EGGS  A    L'AURORE. 

CEUFS   A   L'AURORE. 

8  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  chives, 

I  tablespoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  pint  of  Cream  Sauce, 

Salt,  Pepper. 

Put  the  eggs  into  boiling  water,  and  let  them  boil  rapidly 
25  minutes.  Drain ;  let  the  cold  water  run  on  them  a  few 
minutes ;  then  cover  with  cold  water  and  set  aside  20  to  30 
minutes.  Have  ready  the  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt)  ;  stir 
into  it  parsley,  chives,  pepper,  and  salt.  Now  cut  the  eggs 
in  quarters  lengthwise ;  remove  the  yolks,  which  you  throw 
into  a  coarse  sieve.  Place  the  whites  on  a  platter,  making 
an  even  row  all  round  near  the  edge,  with  the  points  turned 
outward  and  upward ;  fill  in  the  centre  in  the  same  way. 
Pour  the  hot  cream  sauce  over  these,  covering  all  except 


362  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  outer  half  of  the  row  of  whites  on  the  edge  of  the  dish 
Now,  with  a  potato-masher,  rub  the  yolks  through  the 
sieve,  scattering  them  evenly  all  over  the  sauce,  still  leaving 
visible  the  points  of  the  whites.  Have  ready  on  the  fire  a 
pot  of  boiling  water ;  stand  the  dish  of  eggs  over  this  for 
about  5  minutes  till  well-heated  again.  Serve.  If  it  has 
been  done  quickly,  the  sauce  will  not  have  had  time  to  cool, 
and  the  eggs  will  soon  warm.  If  you  have  a  double  dish 
with  a  hot-water  compartment,  use  it  for  the  above.  This 
will  be  found  not  only  delicious,  but  very  pleasing  to  the 
eye,  and  most  simple  to  make. 

CURRIED  EGGS. 

GEUFS   AU    KARL 

8  hard-boiled  eggs  (see  receipt),  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  pint  of  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt),  r  teaspoon  of  curry-powder, 

1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1         "         "  chopped  chives. 

When  the  cream  sauce  is  prepared,  blend  and  stir  into  it 
the  curry-powder;  then  add  parsley,  chives,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Keep  it  hot  over  boiling  water,  while  you  prepare  the  eggs. 
Having  already  boiled  the  eggs,  cut  them  in  halves ;  lay 
them  in  a  deep  dish  ;  pour  over  them  the  sauce.  Cover. 
Set  the  dish  over  boiling  water  for  10  minutes,  until  the 
eggs  are  thoroughly  heated,  and  serve. 

STIRRED   OR   SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

CEUFS   BROUILLES. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl ;  beat  them  thoroughly 
together ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  to  each  egg ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Have  ready  a  saucepan  with  melted 
butter.  Do  not  cook  over  too  hot  a  fire.  Pour  in  the  eggs ; 
stir  and  scrape  from  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan  without 
ceasing,  until  as  thick  as  batter.  Remove.  Continue  to 
stir  for  a  few  moments  after  removing  from  the  fire,  as  they 
will  harden.     Serve  on  buttered  toast. 


TRUFFLED  EGGS  AU  JUS.  363 

STIRRED  EGGS    WITH   TOMATOES. 

GEUFS    BROUILLES    AUX    TOMATES. 

Proceed  as  above,  omitting  the  cream  and  adding  1  large 
tablespoonful  of  the  fruity  part  of  stewed  tomatoes  to  each 
egg ;  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley.  Finish 
as  above.     Delicious. 

EGGS  EN  MATELOTE. 

CEUFS    EN    MATELOTE. 

6  eggs,  6  slices  of  toast, 

Matelote  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

Have  ready  6  rounds  of  buttered  toast.  Bring  the  sauce 
to  a  boil.  Break  the  eggs  into  a  saucer  1  by  1,  and  poach 
in  the  sauce.  Draw  the  saucepan  aside  where  it  will  only 
simmer  gently  while  the  eggs  are  cooking.  Remove  with 
a  skimmer;  put  one  egg  on  each  slice  of  toast.  Let  the 
sauce  boil  up  again ;  add  more  wine  and  a  little  thickening, 
about  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  rubbed  up  with  2  of  flour. 
Stir  and  boil  3  minutes.     Pour  over,  the  eggs  and  serve. 

TRUFFLED  EGGS  AU  JUS. 

CEUFS    TRUFFES   AU    JUS. 

6  eggs>  *  giU  0I  "ch  cream  or  milk, 

3  truffles,  Salt  and  pepper, 

3  gills  of  Jus  (see  Brown  Gravy),  Butter. 

Use  only  the  best  truffles.  Chop  not  too  fine.  Break 
the  eggs  into  a  bowl  and  beat  until  whites  and  yolks  are 
well  mixed.  Add  a  scant  gill  of  cream  ;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Melt  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan.  Pour 
in  the  eggs  and  stir  over  a  slow  fire  without  ceasing  until 
beginning  to  thicken.  Keep  the  eggs  scraped  from  the 
bottom  of  the  saucepan  or  your  dish  will  be  spoiled.  At 
this  point,  stir  in  the  truffles.  Continue  to  stir  the  eggs 
until  as  thick  as  batter ;  then  remove  from  the  fire,  as  they 
will  harden  a  little  afterward.     Stir  for  a  moment.     Dish 


364  GOOD-LIVING. 

on  a  round  entree  dish.  Have  ready  a  very  rich  gravy.  It 
must  have  no  thickening  but  its  own  concentrated  strength 
and  richness.  If  the  Jus  is  not  obtainable,  boil  down  con- 
somme until  it  reaches  the  required  degree  of  strength  and 
richness.  Pour  it  around,  not  over,  the  eggs,  and  serve. 
This  is  a  delicious  and  appetizing  dish  for  luncheon. 

EGGS    WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

CEUFS   AUX   CHAMPIGNONS. 

May  be  cooked  as  above,  using  mushrooms  instead  of 
truffles,  and  their  sauce  instead  of  the  jus,  the  mushrooms 
having  been  previously  stewed  (see  receipt). 

EGG-FOND  U. 

FONDU   AU    FROMAGE. 

6  eggs,  %  teaspoon  of  salt, 

4  heaping  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese,  Cayenne, 

I  tablespoon  of  butter,  I  gill  of  rich  milk. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  until  light ;  add  salt,  pepper, 
grated  cheese,  and  a  scant  gill  of  cream  or  new  milk.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  frying-pan.  When  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs  and 
stir  until  smooth  and  as  thick  as  batter.  Serve  immediately 
on  buttered  toast. 

BACON  AND  EGGS. 
Proceed  as  for  Ham  and  'Eggs  (see  receipt). 

EGGS  AUX  POINTES  UASPERGES. 

CEUFS   AUX    POINTES   D'ASPERGES. 

2  gills  of  cold  asparagus-tips,  4  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  milk,  Salt  and  pepper, 

2  teaspoons  of  butter,  Buttered  toast. 

Having  boiled  the  asparagus-tips  (see  receipt),  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  the  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  heat 
slowly.     Break  the  eggs  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  until  well 


STIRRED  EGGS  k    L ' INDIENNE.  365 

mixed.  Add  the  milk,  salt,  and  pepper.  Melt  I  teaspoonful 
of  butter  in  a  frying-pan.  When  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs  and 
stir  until  almost,  but  not  quite,  set  (as  thick  as  batter). 
Turn  in  the  asparagus-tips  and  stir  only  just  enough  to  mix 
without  breaking  the  tips.  Scrape  the  eggs  from  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan ;  remove  from  the  fire  before  the  eggs  are 
quite  firm,  and  continue  to  stir  for  a  few  moments,  as  they 
will  harden  a  little.     Serve  very  hot  on  buttered  toast. 

EGGS  EN  CAISSES. 

CEUFS   EN   CAISSES. 

Use  small  soufrl6-cases,  or  small  casseroles  with  3  legs  and 
a  handle,  which  are  made  expressly  for  eggs.  Butter  the 
inside;  half- fill  with  bread-crumbs,  browned  in  butter,  sea- 
soned with  pepper,  salt,  and  chopped  parsley.  Break  an  egg 
into  each  case ;  set  in  the  oven  for  5  minutes,  or  until  half- 
firm  ;  or,  set  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on  the  top  of  the 
range.  The  water  should  reach  only  %  the  height  of  the 
cases.     Do  not  let  the  eggs  cook  until  hard. 

STIRRED  EGGS  A  VINDIENNE. 

CEUFS   BROUILL^S,  A  L'lNDIENNE. 

I  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  5  ounces  of  butter, 

I  teaspoon  of  curry-powder,  Pepper  and  salt, 

6  eggs>  4  tablespoons  of  cream. 

Fry  the  onion  golden  brown  in  1  ounce  of  butter.  Stir 
in  the  curry-powder.  Stir  and  set  aside.  Break  the  eggs^ 
into  a  bowl ;  beat  until  smooth.  Add  the  cream.  Melt  4 
ounces  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  ;  pour  in  the  eggs  and  cream, 
then  the  onion  and  curry.  Stir,  and  scrape  from  the  bottom 
of  the  saucepan  until  as  thick  as  batter.  Remove  from  the 
fire  before  the  egg  hardens  too  much,  and  continue  to  stir 
for  a  few  moments.  Serve  very  hot  on  rounds  of  buttered 
toast.     Boiled  rice  should  be  served  at  the  same  time. 


366  GOOD-LIVING. 

FRICASSEED  EGGS. 

CEUFS   A   LA   POULETTE. 

i  pint  of  Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt),  i  teaspoon  of  chives,  chopped  fine, 

I  teaspoon  of  parsley,  chopped  fine,  8  hard-boiled  eggs  (see  receipt). 

Add  the  herbs  to  the  sauce  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Lay  the  eggs,  cut  lengthwise  in  £,  in  a  deep  dish  ;  pour 
the  sauce  over  ;  set  for  10  minutes  over  a  pot  of  boiling 
water,  and  serve  immediately. 

STUFFED  EGGS  WITH  MAYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

(EUFS   FARCIS,  SAUCE   MAYONNAISE. 

6  hard-boiled  eggs  (see  receipt),  I  gill  of  milk, 

I  small  cup  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  Cayenne, 

i  tablespoon  of  Parmesan,  grated,  i  teaspoon  of  butter, 

Chives  and  parsley,  chopped,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Having  boiled  the  eggs  as  directed,  when  quite  cold, 
remove  the  shells  very  carefully,  and,  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut 
in  two,  lengthwise.  Rub  the  yolks  to  a  powder  and  mix 
with  an  equal  bulk  of  bread-crumbs.  Add  all  the  other  in- 
gredients, and  mix.  If  too  dry,  moisten  with  a  little  milk. 
Season  highly  with  cayenne.  If  you  have  no  chives,  use 
grated  onion  to  taste.  Fill  the  12  shells  with  the  mixture, 
rounding  up  the  top.  Set  upon  a  tin  in  the  oven  for  about 
5  minutes,  until  delicately  browned.  Set  away  to  get  cold, 
and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  or  Tartare  Sauce;  or  serve  hot 
with  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipts).  Minced  chicken  may  be 
substituted  for  part  of  the  bread-crumbs. 

EGGS  IN  A  NEST. 

Having  stuffed  the  eggs  as  above,  serve  them  hot  on  a 
neatly-arranged  bed  of  Spinach  (see  receipt). 


OMELET  WITH  CHICKEN  LIVERS  SAUTE.  367 

EGGS  A  LA    VALENCIENNE. 

CEUFS   A   LA   VALENCIENNE. 

2  gills  of  boiled  rice,  2  gills  of  tomato  sauce, 

2  mushrooms,  chopped,  ]/?.  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  truffle,  "  Pepper, 

2  tablespoons  of  grated  Parmesan,  Pinch  of  grated  nutmeg. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  the  rice,  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt), 
mushrooms,  truffle,  cheese,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Stir 
over  the  fire  for  5  minutes.  Set  aside  over  boiling  water 
until  required.  Prepare  8  eggs  as  directed  for  Eggs  sur  le 
Plat  (see  receipt).  When  the  eggs  are  cooked,  arrange  the 
rice,  etc.,  in  4  parts,  1  at  either  end  and  1  at  either  side. 
Serve  very  hot. 

EGGS  A  LANDALOUSE. 

GEUFS   A   L'ANDALOUSE. 

1  pint  of  Tomato  Sauce  (see  receipt),  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

2  sweet  peppers,  peeled  and  chopped,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  chives, 
6  poached  eggs,                                                  6  slices  of  toast. 

Fry  the  chopped  peppers  in  butter;  add  them  to  the 
tomato  sauce  with  the  chives ;  let  the  sauce  boil  briskly  for 
about  10  minutes,  being  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Have 
ready  6  rounds  of  toast  on  which  lay  the  6  Poached  Eggs 
(see  receipt).     Pour  the  sauce  over  all  and  serve  immediately. 

OMELET  WLTH  CHICKEN  LIVERS  SAUTE. 

OMELETTE  AUX   FOIES   DE  VOLAILLES. 

Prepare  chicken  livers  (see  receipt  for  Chicken  Livers 
Saute)  ;  set  aside  to  keep  warm  while  you  prepare  a  Parsley 
Omelet  (see  receipt).  When  the  omelet  is  set,  lay  the 
chicken  livers  across  the  centre ;  fold  the  omelet  over  and 


368  GOOD-LIVING. 

EGGS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

CEUFS,  SAUCE    TOMATE. 

Boil  6  eggs  hard  as  directed  (see  receipt) ;  cut  them 
lengthwise  in  £-.  Have  ready  a  rich  Tomato  Sauce  (see 
receipt).  Lay  the  eggs  in  the  dish  ;  pour  the  tomato  sauce 
over  them.  Cover  the  dish,  and  set  it  over  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  for  15  or  20  minutes,  and  serve. 

EGGS  WITH  CELERY. 

CEUFS   AU    CELERI. 

Prepare  a  Celery  Sauce  (see  receipt).  Poach  6  fresh  eggs  ; 
arrange  them  on  6  rounds  of  buttered  toast  in  a  circle  on  a 
hot  dish,  and  pour  the  celery  sauce  in  the  centre.  Serve 
very  hot. 

N.  B. — The  celery  sauce  used  should  be  blended  with 
cream  sauce  or  with  pure  cream. 


BUTTER,  CHEESE,  ETC. 

BUTTER. 

The  golden  rule  of  good  butter-making  is  :  Keep  all  your 
utensils  absolutely  clean  and  pure  ;  do  not  spare  time  or 
trouble  in  the  attainment  of  this  primary  necessity.  The 
milk  pans  should  shine  like  silver,  and  be  kept  airing  and 
sunning  until  required  for  use.  Before  straining  the  milk 
into  the  pan,  first  scald,  then  rinse  the  pan  in  cold  water.  It 
need  not  be  wiped  after  this  last.  The  milk  should  be  strained 
into  the  pan  just  as  soon  as  possible  after  the  milking ;  it 
should  not  stand  in  the  kettle.  The  cream  should  be  allowed 
to  stand  in  £ he  pan  24  hours  before  skimming,  if  possible,  as 
it  will  be  firmer  and  richer,  but  may  be  skimmed,  if  the  milk 
is  required  for  use,  after  12  hours  ;  however,  leave  it  as  long 
as  you  can  afford  to.  Skim  it  into  a  sweet,  clean,  scalded, 
and  rinsed  crock,  not  into  any  tin  vessel.  Do  not  cover  the 
crock  unless  with  an  inverted  sieve.  It  must  have  air.  Keep 
the  crock  in  a  cold  place.  In  summer,  churn,  if  possible, 
every  second  day ;  every  third  day  at  the  longest.  While 
you  are  preparing  your  churning  apparatus,  take  the  cream 
from  the  ice  (unless  the  weather  is  intensely  warm)  and  set 
it  where  it  will  attain  a  temperature  of  about  650.  If  you 
have  no  thermometer  for  the  purpose,  you  can  soon  learn  to 
know  by  the  feeling,  if  you  put  your  finger  into  the  cream. 
It  should  feel  neither  cold  nor  yet  even  mildly  warm.  Have 
the  churn,  like  every  thing  else  about  the  butter,  the  very 
essence  of  cleanliness.  Scald  it  first  thoroughly,  as  also  the 
butter-paddle  and  bowl.  This  swells  the  wood  and  prevents 
the  grease  from  getting  into  the  pores.  Then  throw  the  boil- 
24  369 


3  JO  GOOD-LI  VING. 

ing  water  out  and  rinse  with  cold  water  until  it  feels  perfectly- 
cold  to  the  touch.  Empty  out  the  cold  water  ;  turn  in  the 
cream  ;  close  the  cover  (if  a  revolving  churn)  and  turn  the 
crank  moderately-quickly.  The  warmer  the  weather,  the 
slower  should  be  the  churning.  If  churned  too  rapidly,  the 
butter  will  be  oily  ;  if  too  slowly,  it  will  take  a  very  long 
time  to  come.  With  the  cream  at  650  or  68°,  the  churn  well 
cooled,  and  proper  rate  of  turning,  the  butter  should  sepa- 
rate from  the  milk,  or  "  crack,"  in  20  minutes.  Then  churn 
very  slowly  for  a  few  minutes  more,  until  it  gathers  in  little 
balls  as  large  as  a  good-sized  marble  ;  then  swing  the  dasher 
back  and  forth  until  the  butter  gathers  in  one  or  two  large 
lumps.  Do  not  work  at  it  too  much  or  it  will  get  soft  and 
the  texture  be  spoiled.  Draw  out  the  bung  and  let  off  the 
buttermilk  into  a  pail.  Put  back  the  bung  and  fill  the  churn 
up  to  the  crank  with  iced  or  very  cold  spring  water.  Turn  very 
slowly  until  the  milk  is  quite  thoroughly  washed  out  of  the 
butter.  Remove  the  bung  and  draw  off  this  water.  Remove 
the  crank  and  dasher.  Then  lift  out  the  butter,  which  you 
place  in  the  wooden  bowl,  which  has  been  prepared  as  di- 
rected. If  the  butter  appears  to  retain  any  milk,  work  it 
once  in  a  little  very  cold  water ;  sprinkle  with  dairy  salt, 
about  1  saltspoonful  to  1  lb.  ;  work  this  in  a  little  and  set 
the  whole  thing  in  the  ice  for  2  or  3  hours.  Then  it  may  be 
worked  once  more  with  a  little  more  salt  to  taste,  made  into 
pats,  and  set  away  in  the  ice-box  for  use. 

Too  much  working  will  make  the  butter  oily  and  destroy 
its  texture,  as  well  as  its  flavor.  Unless  it  is  to  be  packed  to 
keep,  there  is  no  object  in  much  working  or  washing.  Wash- 
ing once  or  twice  after  it  is  churned  is  all  that  is  required. 
Some  butter-makers  use  as  many  as  4  changes  of  water,  and 
in  many  cases  wash  out  flavor  as  well  as  buttermilk. 

N.  B. — If  the  butter  is  inclined  to  oil,  and  not  crack,  from 
the  high  temperature  of  the  weather  or  from  too  rapid  churn- 
ing, put  in  a  lump  of  ice  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  It  is  a  good 
plan,  in  hot  weather,  when  the  "  pin-heads  "  begin  to  appear, 
to  throw  in  about  %  a  pint  of  very  cold  water. 


COTTAGE   CHEESE   OR   SCHMIER-KASE.  37 1 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  weather  is  cold  and  the  butter 
will  not  gather,  but  remains  in  "  pin-heads,"  you  will  be 
obliged  to  throw  in  a  little  boiling  water  and  churn  more 
rapidly.  But  the  necessity  for  this  should  be  avoided  by 
raising  the  cream  to  the  proper  temperature  before  begin- 
ning. This  can  be  accomplished  in  cold  weather  by  stand- 
ing the  crock  in  a  large  pan,  pouring  boiling  water  around  it, 
and  letting  it  stand  until  ready.  The  use  of  hot  water  later 
in  the  churn  to  gather  the  butter,  tends  to  render  it  white  and 
tasteless. 

The  above  directions  are  for  the  crank  or  "  Rose  "  churn, 
which  is  recommended,  instead  of  the  old-fashioned  churn,  as 
being  far  less  fatiguing. 

BONNY  CLABBER. 

Fill  a  glass  dish  with  whole  or  skimmed  milk  that  is  24 
hours  old.  Set  it  in  a  rather  warm  place,  that  is,  not  on  the 
ice  (from  75  °  to  8o°),  and  let  it  stand  until  the  milk  becomes 
perfectly  firm.  Then  set  in  the  ice-box  until  very  cold,  and 
serve  before  it  gets  to  the  point  of  "  cracking,"  that  is,  the 
point  where  the  curd  and  whey  separate.  The  time  for 
this  cannot  be  specified  definitely,  as  it  depends  upon  the 
weather  and  atmosphere,  a  warm  day  or  a  thunder-storm 
serving  to  lobber  the  milk  more  rapidly.  Serve  very  cold 
with  cream,  sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  OR  SCHMIER-KASE. 

The  milk  for  this  purpose  may  be  skimmed  or  whole.  Let 
it  stand  off  the  ice  in  a  bowl  or  pan  until  it  forms  by  itself 'a 
firm  curd.  This  will  take  from  24  to  48  hours  (or  even  more) 
according  to  the  weather.  If  this  latter  is  cool,  the  milk  may 
be  placed  in  a  warm  corner  of  the  kitchen  ;  but  on  no  account 
set  it  on  the  range,  as  is  so  often  done,  to  the  great  detriment 
of  the  cheese.  When  it  has  formed  a  firm  curd,  and  begins 
to  "  crack,"  as  above  described,  pour  it  into  a  coarse  muslin 
or  cheese-cloth  bag.     Tie  the  top  together  with  a  strong 


372  GOOD-LIVING. 

twine  and  suspend  the  bag  (if  in  the  country)  from  the  limb 
of  a  tree,  in  the  shade.  Place  a  pan  underneath  to  catch 
the  whey  ;  let  it  hang  until  the  whey  ceases  to  drip — no 
longer.  Take  a  portion  of  the  cheese  ;  rub  it  up  with  a  gen- 
erous lump  of  fresh  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  sufficient  thick, 
sweet  cream  to  make  it  soft.  Serve  very  cold,  with  a  pitcher 
of  cream,  and  salt  or  sugar,  according  to  taste.  There  are 
perforated  tin-moulds  made  for  draining  this  cheese,  which 
are  also  very  good.  The  curds  should  be  left  in  the  mould 
until  all  the  whey  is  drained  off,  and  may  then  be  turned  out 
in  shape.  Mix  with  cream  only  as  much  of  the  cheese  as 
will  be  used  at  one  time,  leaving  the  remainder  on  the  ice ; 
otherwise  the  cream  might  become  sour  and  spoil  the  sweet- 
ness of  the  cheese. 

N.  B. — Observe  particularly  that  the  milk  must  not  be 
scalded  to  form  the  curd,  or  the  cheese  will  be  first  leathery, 
then  dry  and  grainy  ;  in  short,  not  a  success. 


BREAD,  BISCUITS,  AND  BREAKFAST-CAKES. 

YEAST. 

4  large  potatoes,  i  cup  of  good  yeast, 

I  gill  of  sugar,  I  quart  of  boiling  water, 

2  tablespoons  of  salt. 

Peel  the  potatoes  ;  let  them  lie  in  cold  water  30  minutes. 
Have  ready  the  boiling  water  in  a  saucepan.  Grate  the 
potatoes  quickly  ;  stir  them  in  the  boiling  water  over  the 
fire  for  5  minutes.  Remove,  and  add  the  sugar  and  salt. 
Turn  into  a  bowl  and  set  aside  until  lukewarm  ;  then  add 
the  yeast ;  cover  and  ferment  3  or  4  hours.  Every  time  it 
rises  to  the  top  of  the  bowl,  stir  it  down.  Bottle  it ;  cork 
tightly  and  set  in  a  cool,  but  not  freezing  place.  It  will  keep 
for  2  weeks.     Save  1  cupfu1  t    s      '  u  tl   nr*x+-  time. 

NOTE  NO.  I. 
One  cupful  of  yeast  is  equal  to  1  cake  of  compressed  yeast. 

NOTE  NO.  II. 

Always  grease  the  tins  for  bread  and  cake  with  lard ;  but- 
ter blackens  the  outside  of  the  loaf. 

BREAD. 

1  cake  of  Fleischman's  yeast,  Sifted  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough, 

I  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  2  quarts  of  warm  water  (or  half  scalded 

I  "  "  salt,  milk), 

Butter  or  lard,  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Dissolve  the  yeast-cake  thoroughly  in  a  little  of  the  luke- 
warm water ;    mix    into  this  all  the  ingredients  overnight. 
373 


374  GOOD-LIVING. 

Set  in  a  sheltered  corner  ;  cover  with  a  cloth.  Next  morn- 
ing knead  well  once  for  15  minutes,  adding  only  enough 
flour  to  keep  from  sticking  to  your  fingers.  Mould  into 
loaves  and  put  into  greased  pans.  The  pans  should  not  be 
more  than  ^-full.  Set  again  in  a  sheltered  corner  and 
cover.  In  1  or  2  hours,  when  it  is  raised  to  at  least  twice 
its  bulk,  bake  for  about  45  minutes  (for  medium-sized  loaves), 
turning  the  loaves,  when  firmly  set,  so  that  all  sides  may 
brown  alike.  Avoid  letting  any  draught  blow  on  the  dough 
while  raising,  shutting  any  window  that  may  be  near.  It 
must  be  kept  in  a  moderately-warm,  even  temperature.  The 
oven  must  be  not  too  quick,  and  very  steady.  The  above 
receipt,  if  followed  literally,  will  be  found  excellent. 

N.  B. — If  milk  is  used  with  the  warm  water,  watch  that 
it  does  not  become  sour  in  warm  weather.  It  is  a  good  plan, 
in  this  case,  to  mix  about  \  of  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  with 
a  few  drops  of  boiling  water,  and,  when  lukewarm,  to  work 
it  into  the  dough  while  kneading.  For  raising,  the  temper- 
ature should  be  from  900  to  950. 

BRAN  BREAD. 

To  the  receipt  for  Bread,  add,  when  kneading,  1  gill  of 
strained  molasses  and  2  handfuls  of  clean  bran.  Omit  the 
sugar,  and  raise  very  light.     Finish  as  above. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Make  the  wheat-sponge  as  directed  in  receipt  for  Bread. 
Set  it  overnight.  The  next  morning,  work  in  just  enough 
rye-meal  to  prevent  the  dough  from  sticking  to  the  hands. 
Knead  it  well,  and  finish  according  to  the  same  receipt. 
Rye  bread  is  never  as  light  as  wheat,  but  is  wholesome  as  a 
variety.  This  is  the  kind  of  bread  that  should  be  cut  very 
thin,  buttered,  and  put  together  in  tartines,  to  be  served 
with  whitebait  or  with  raw  oysters.  This  last  is  a  European 
custom  which  we  may  adopt  with  advantage. 


BREAD  ROLLS.  375 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 

Mix  a  wheat-sponge  as  directed  in  receipt  for  Bread.  Set 
it  overnight.  Next  morning,  work  in  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
molasses  and  sufficient  Graham  flour  to  make  a  dough  a 
little  softer  than  wheat  bread.  As  Graham  bread  sours  very 
easily,  it  is  best  to  set  the  sponge  without  milk  ;  watch  it 
carefully  when  formed  into  loaves  and  set  to  rise,  and  just 
as  soon  as  it  is  light,  put  it  into  the  oven.   Finish  as  directed. 

GLUTEN  BREAD. 

1  cake  of  Fleischman's  yeast,  1  quart  of  lukewarm  water, 

yz  tablespoon  of  salt,  Gluten-flour,  for  stiff  dough,  about  2  pounds. 

Melt  the  yeast  thoroughly  in  the  warm  water  ;  add  salt. 
Work  in  the  flour  by  degrees.  Set  in  a  warm,  sheltered 
corner.  Cover.  When  raised  to  at  least  twice  its  bulk, 
knead  the  dough  very  thoroughly  for  10  to  15  minutes. 
Mould  the  loaves  not  larger  than  \  the  size  of  the  pans. 
Put  into  greased  pans  and  raise  as  before.  Bake  in  a  steady, 
moderately-hot  oven.  When  the  loaves  are  firm,  say  in 
about  20  minutes,  turn  and  brown  them  evenly  on  all  sides. 
They  will  be  done  in  about  45  minutes,  according  to  the 
oven. 

BREAD  ROLLS. 

Having  made  wheat  Bread  according  to  receipt,  take  a 
piece  of  dough  the  size  of  an  ordinary  loaf  ;  knead  it  about 
twice  as  long  as  directed  for  the  bread  ;  form  it  into  even, 
small  balls  and  place  in  greased  gem-pans.  Cover  and  set  in 
a  warm  corner  until  risen  very  light,  a  little  more  than  twice 
their  original  bulk,  then  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for 
about  20  to  25  minutes.  Watch  and  turn  them  that  they 
may  brown  evenly. 

Or,  having  rolled  the  dough  as  directed  above,  place  the 
balls  side  by  side  in  a  pie-tin  ;  raise  very  light,  as  directed  ; 
bake,  and  serve  without  breaking  apart.  They  should  be 
eaten  hot ;  and  broken,  not  cut  with  a  knife.  This  makes  a 
very  pretty  loaf. 


376  GOOD-LIVING. 

BREAD  PUFFS. 

Take  the  value  of  I  loaf  of  risen  bread-dough.  When 
very  light,  have  ready  boiling  some  deep  lard  in  a  kettle. 
Pull  out  some  of  the  dough  quite  thin  ;  cut  it  in  2-inch 
lengths.  Throw  them  immediately  into  the  boiling  lard 
and  cook  until  puffed  and  golden-brown,  like  doughnuts. 
Remove  with  a  skimmer ;  drain,  and  serve  hot.  They  may 
be  covered  with  powdered  cinnamon  and  sugar  as  they  are 
removed  from  the  fire,  and  should  be  eaten  immediately 
with  butter.     Very  simple  and  good. 

ITALIAN  BREAD. 

I  pound  of  bread-dough,  4  ounces  of  softened  butter, 

Corn-meal. 

Work  the  butter  into  the  dough,  when  it  has  risen  ready 
for  the  oven.  Roll  it  out  \  an  inch  thick  ;  cut  it  into  strips 
nearly  1  inch  wide  by  7  or  8  inches  long.  Sift  fine  corn- 
meal  over  them  ;  place  on  a  sheet  of  greased  tin,  not 
touching  each  other,  and  when  light  (about  I  hour)  bake  in 
a  quick  oven  about  10  minutes. 

SALT-RISING  BREAD. 

1  pint  of  scalding  water,  1  x/2  teaspoons  of  salt, 

I     "     "  milk,  Flour. 

Add  to  the  water  enough  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter 
add  \  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  beat  until  smooth  and  full  of 
air-bubbles.  Cover  closely.  Stand  the  pitcher  in  a  pan  of 
warm  water,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  from  5  to  8  hours.  It 
requires  to  be  kept  much  warmer  than  bread  which  is  made 
with  yeast,  in  a  temperature  of  about  1 12  degrees,  and  may  be 
stirred  once  or  twice  while  rising.  In  the  morning,  scald  the 
milk,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  lukewarm,  add  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  batter  thick  enough 
to  drop,  not  pour,  from  the  spoon.  Now  turn  into  this  the 
salt-rising,  which  should  be  very  light,  and  have  an  unpleasant 
odor.  Beat  vigorously  and  continuously  for  3  minutes.  Cover 


SALLY  LUNN.  377 

with  a  cloth,  and  set  in  a  pan  of  warm  water.  Let  it  stand 
in  a  warm  place  until  very  light,  about  2  hours  ;  then  add 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough  that  will  not  stick  to  the 
hands.  Knead  thoroughly  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Mould 
into  loaves  ;  place  in  greased  pans  ;  cover  with  a  cloth,  and, 
when  very  light,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  I  hour.  This  must 
be  kept  warmer  than  yeast  bread,  or  it  will  not  rise.  The 
above  receipt  is  given  to  be  used  when  yeast  is  not  obtainable. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

2  cups  of  rye-meal,  I  cup  of  molasses, 

I  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  cups  of  Indian-meal, 

i^  pints  of  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  of  soda  or  saleratus. 

Mix  the  two  meals  evenly  together.  Dissolve  the  soda  in 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  add  this  and  the  molasses 
to  the  sour  milk ;  mix,  and  pour  into  the  meal ;  add  the 
salt,  and  stir  well  together.  Pour  it  into  a  well-greased, 
2-quart  brown-bread  mould  ;  put  on  the  lid  and  steam  for  5 
hours.  Then  take  off  the  lid  ;  set  the  mould  in  the  oven 
and  bake  30  minutes. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

1  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

ryi  pints  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  gill  of  good  yeast,  or  half-compressed  yeast-cake. 

Scald  the  milk  ;  add  to  it  the  butter  and  set  aside  to  cool. 
When  lukewarm,  add  yeast,  salt,  sugar,  and  flour.  Beat 
steadily  for  5  minutes.  Cover.  Set  in  a  warm  place  for  2 
hours,  to  rise,  until  very  light.  In  winter  it  will  require  a 
longer  time.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs,  apart,  until 
very  light ;  add  first  the  yolks  to  the  batter,  then  the  whites. 
Stir  lightly  and  carefully.  Set  again  in  a  warm  place  for  1 5 
minutes,  to  rise.  Pour  the  mixture  into  a  well-greased  turk's- 
head,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  40  minutes. 
Serve  hot. 


378  GOOD-LIVING. 

VIRGINIA  BATTER-CAKE. 

I  cup  of  boiled  rice,  Butter,  the  size  of  an  egg, 

i  pint  of  milk,  x/2  pint  of  Indian-meal, 

I  egg,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  rice  the  day  before ;  drain  ;  while  warm,  stir  in 
the  butter.  Next  morning,  mix  the  rest  of  the  ingredients 
together  ;  stir  in  the  cupful  of  rice,  and  pour  the  mixture 
into  2  greased  pans,  and  bake  immediately  for  I   hour. 

TEA    BISCUIT. 

2  teaspoons  Royal  baking-powder,  3  cups  of  flour, 
Cold  water  to  make  a  soft  dough,                     1  tablespoon  of  lard, 

Yi  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Mix  together  lard,  flour,  salt,  adding  baking-powder  in 
last  cup  of  flour.  Add  the  water.  Roll  out  thin.  Cut  in 
rounds.     Bake  15  minutes. 

SODA  BISCUIT. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour,  yz  pint  of  milk, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  large  tablespoon  of  lard, 

2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  or  yz  teaspoon  of  soda  and  1  of  cream 

of  tartar. 

Mix  the  baking-powder  (or  soda  and  cream  of  tartar)  and 
salt  with  the  flour  and  sift  again.  Rub  the  lard  and  flour 
together.  Have  the  oven  ready  and  very  hot.  Grease  the 
pans,  and  have  every  thing  in  readiness  before  you  add  the 
milk.  Now  add  the  milk.  Knead  up  quickly  ;  roll  out  I 
inch  thick,  and  cut  into  small  rounds.  Bake  about  20  min- 
utes.    Handle  as  little  and  as  lightly  as  possible. 

SHORT-CAKES. 

3  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  even  teaspoon  of  baking-powder, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,                      ^f  cup  of  butter, 

1  scant  cup  of  ice-water. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  quickly  and  lightly,  handling 
as  little  as  possible  ;  add  salt  and  baking-powder  ;  mix  well. 
Moisten  with  the  ice-water,  using  a  knife  to  mix  it.  Roll 
out  \  an  inch  thick ;  cut  into  small  rounds  ;  bake  on  a  greased 
pan  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  20  minutes. 


GRAHAM  FINGERS  AND    THUMBS.  379 

CREAM  SHORT-CAKES. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

2  gills  of  thick  sour  cream,        1  level  teaspoon  of  baking-soda. 

Add  the  salt  to  the  flour.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  add  it  to  the  sour  cream  ;  then 
add  the  cream  instantly  to  the  flour.  If  it  stands  at  all  be- 
fore mixing,  the  cakes  will  be  heavy.  Mix  quickly,  and 
form  into  cakes  the  size  of  a  saucer  and  £  an  inch  thick. 
Place  on  a  hot  griddle  greased  with  a  piece  of  fat  salt-pork. 
Brown  on  one  side  ;  turn  and  brown  the  other.  The  dough 
should  be  as  soft  as  you  can  handle.  If  the  flour  absorbs 
the  cream  too  much,  add  a  little  more. 

MARYLAND  BISCUIT. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour,  2  gills  of  water, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

2  gills  of  milk. 

Mix  together  salt  and  flour.  Rub  the  lard  into  the  flour 
evenly  with  the  hands.  Have  the  milk  and  water  in  a 
pitcher,  and  add  it  gradually  to  the  flour,  stirring  and 
kneading  all  the  time.  Add  only  enough  to  moisten  the 
flour,  as  the  dough  should  be  very  stiff.  Knead  5  min- 
utes. Beat  with  an  axe  (the  receipt  says,  but  a  rolling-pin 
might  do  where  an  axe  is  not  available)  for  30  minutes. 
Then  form,  with  the  hands,  into  small  round  biscuit,  about 
\  an  inch  thick.  Prick  in  3  places  with  a  fork,  and  set 
them  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  20  to  25  minutes.  The 
outside  should  be  light-brown,  the  inside  white,  flaky,  and 
delicious. 

GRAHAM  FINGERS  AND    THUMBS. 

1  pound  of  Graham  flour,  2  ounces  each  of  butter  and  lard, 

3  gills  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  teaspoon  of  baking-soda,  3  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Mix  together  salt,  cream  of  tartar,  and  flour,  and  sift  through 
the  finest  kind  of  a  sieve.  When  well  mixed,  rub  in  the 
lard  and  butter  with  the  hands  until  very  fine  ;  add  the  milk 


380  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  mix  lightly  ;  lay  the  dough  on  a  floured  board,  handling 
as  little  as  possible.  Roll  it  out  \  an  inch  thick.  Cut  \ 
of  this  into  strips  4  inches  long  and  1  inch  wide.  Roll 
the  strips  in  corn-meal  until  round  and  well  coated.  Lay 
them  in  well-greased  biscuit-pans,  not  touching  each  other. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  10  or  15  minutes.  Cut  the  remaining 
\  of  the  dough  in  circles  ;  double  these  over ;  draw  out  a 
little,  and  bake  like  the  strips.   Dish  together  and  serve  hot. 

GRAHAM   WAFERS. 

Yz  pound  of  Graham  flour,  2  gills  of  sweet  cream, 

y2  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Mix.  Roll  as  thin  as  possible  on  a  floured  board.  Cut 
in  small  squares  and  lay  on  tins.  Prick  with  a  fork  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven.     Do  not  grease  the  sheets  of  tin. 

OA  T-CAKE. 

yi  pound  of  oatmeal,  fine,  2  gills  of  water, 

y2  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Mix.  Roll  as  thin  as  possible  on  a  floured  board.  It 
should  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cut  in  squares,  and  lay  on  un- 
greased  tins.  Prick  well  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

BUTTERMILK  MUFFINS. 

I  quart  of  buttermilk,  Flour,  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter, 

1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  few     2  eggs, 

drops  of  hot  water,  1  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Mix  the  milk  into  the  flour  ;  add  eggs,  etc.  Bake  in  small 
gem-pans,  or  in  rings  on  a  greased  griddle.  In  a  quick  oven 
they  will  require  about  15  minutes.  The  soda  should  be 
added  last,  and  well  beaten  in.     Excellent. 

PLAIN  MUFFINS. 

2  eggsi  I  Pmt  °f  flour, 
1  cup  of  new  milk  or  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  or  yi  teaspoon 
Pinch  of  salt,  *  of  soda  and  1  of  cream  of  tartar,  level, 

Butter  size  of  an  egg. 

Sift  the  baking-powder  and  salt  with  the  flour ;  beat  the 
eggs>  whites  and  yolks  apart ;    add  to  the  yolks  first  the 


BREAD  MUFFINS.  38 1 

milk,  then  the  butter,  melted  ;  then  add  these  to  the  flour ; 
lastly,  add  the  whites.  Beat  well,  after  it  is  all  mixed,  and 
bake  immediately  in  a  hot  oven,  in  greased  rings  or  gem- 
pans  ;  or  bake  in  rings  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle.  The  batter 
must  be  just  thin  enough  to  pour. 

CREAM  MUFFINS. 

2  gills  of  flour,  2  gills  of  sweet  cream, 

j£  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  eggs. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Beat  together  yolks  and 
salt,  and  add  them  gradually  to  the  cream.  Stir  these  into 
the  flour,  and  add,  lastly,  the  whites,  mixing  very  gently  but 
thoroughly.  Bake  in  greased  gem-pans  in  a  quick  oven  for 
10  to  15  minutes ;  or  bake  in  greased  rings  on  a  hot,  greased 
griddle. 

KALAMAZOO  MUFFINS. 

1  pint  of  thick  sour  cream  or  milk,  1  pint  and  2  gills  of  flour, 

i1/^  even  teaspoons  of  soda,  1  saltspoon  of  salt, 

3  ounces  of  butter,  melted,  2  eggs. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  bowl,  and  beat  them  thor- 
oughly together,  adding  lastly  the  soda,  dissolved  in  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  boiling  water.  Bake  in  greased  gem-pans 
in  a  quick  oven  for  10  or  15  minutes;  or  bake  in  greased 
muffin-rings  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle. 

BREAD  MUFFINS. 

1  pint  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  pint  of  milk,  3  gills  of  sifted  flour, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,         1  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted, 

2  eggs. 

Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk  for  30  minutes.  Beat 
the  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  apart.  Add  to  the  bread,  first 
the  yolks,  then  butter  and  salt.  Mix  well.  Add  the  flour  ; 
beat.  Lastly,  stir  in  carefully  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  and  the  baking-powder.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Bake  in  greased  gem-pans  in  a  quick  oven  about  20  min- 
utes ;  or  bake  in  greased  rings  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle. 


382  GOOD-LIVING. 

Note. — To  grease  the  griddle  for  muffins  and  griddle- 
cakes,  use  a  piece  of  salt  pork,  on  the  end  of  a  fork.  Keep 
it  for  the  purpose. 

A  VERY  USEFUL  BA  TTER  FOR  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

2  eggs»  2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder, 

2  cups  of  milk,  or  less,  2  cups  of  flour, 

Pinch  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  melted  lard  or  butter. 

Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  apart.  Mix  together  milk  and 
yolks  of  eggs.  Mix  together  baking-powder  and  flour;  into 
this  stir  the  milk  and  eggs  with  the  salt;  then  add  the 
melted  lard  or  butter,  stirring  until  perfectly  smooth.  Add 
lastly  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  For  muffins,  bake 
in  greased  muffin-rings  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle.  For  oven- 
muffins,  bake  in  gem-pans,  or  in  greased  rings,  for  15  to  20 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Or,  bake  in  1  round  tin,  like  Sally 
Lunn,  for  25  to  35  minutes.  Or,  add  a  little  sugar  to  sweet- 
en ;  bake  in  1  round  tin,  as  above,  and  serve  hot,  with  a  hot 
Wine  Sauce  as  a  plain  dessert.  Or,  for  Yorkshire  pudding, 
add  a  little  more  milk  to  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  roasting- 
pan,  which  has  been  greased  with  the  drippings  of  the  beef. 
Bake  from  25  to  40  minutes,  according  to  the  heat  of  the 
oven  and  thickness  of  the  pudding.  This  batter  is  recom- 
mended. 

CRUMPETS. 

1  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

3  cups  of  flour,  or  about,  4  ounces  of  butter, 

1  cup  of  yeast  or  )/2  compressed  yeast-cake,  dissolved  in  1  gill  of  warm  water. 

Scald  the  milk  ;  when  lukewarm,  add  it  to  the  salt  and 
flour ;  beat  hard  ;  then  add  the.  butter,  melted,  and  the 
yeast.  Beat  again.  Cover  and  set  in  a  warm  place,  until 
very  light,  about  2  hours.  Grease  very  large  muffin-rings 
and  place  on  a  greased,  hot  griddle.  Fill  each  ring  not  more 
than  |~full  of  the  batter.  Bake  brown  on  one  side,  then 
turn  and  bake  the  other  side.  Remove  from  the  fire,  spread 
with  butter,  and  serve  hot.     Or  set  aside  until  wanted  ;  then 


RICE  WAFFLES.  383 

toast  on  both  sides ;  spread  with  butter  and  serve  hot. 
Crumpets  should  always  be  served  on  a  hot-water  plate,  with 
a  bell-cover  over  them. 

PLAIN   WAFFLES. 

2    eS»S>  l     P^nt    ^    flOUr! 

1%  cups  of  new  milk  or  cream,  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut, 

1  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking-powder,  Salt. 

Mix  the  baking-powder  and  salt  with  the  flour.  Beat  the 
whites  and  yolks  apart.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  it  to  the 
milk ;  next  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  milk  to  the  flour ; 
lastly,  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  immediately.  The  waffle- 
iron  should  be  very  hot,  and  well  greased  in  every  part. 
Have  the  batter  in  a  pitcher  and  pour  it  in  carefully.  As 
soon  as  the  edges  are  set,  turn  the  waffle-iron  and  bake  the 
second  side.  There  is  quite  an  art  in  making  very  good 
waffles,  as  much  depends  upon  their  being  baked  evenly. 
Select  a  square  waffle-iron  with  4  compartments,  and  do  not 
be  tempted  by  too  elaborate  a  design.  When  your  waffles 
are  baked,  pile  them  in  a  double  row  on  a  hot  plate,  butter- 
ing each  one  generously.  Serve  very  hot,  with  cinnamon 
and  sugar  mixed. 

WAFFLES  WITHOUT  YEAST  OR  SODA. 

I  pint  of  milk  scalded,  2  ounces  of  butter, 

1     "    and  1  yi  gills  of  flour,  3  eggs, 

%  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  and  when  sufficiently  cooled, 
mix  it  into  the  flour  and  salt.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  apart. 
Stir  the  yolks  into  the  batter,  and  lastly  add  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  on  a  hot  waffle-iron  as  directed 
for  Plain  Waffles  (see  receipt). 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

Follow  exactly  the  receipt  for  Plain  Waffles,  using  1  cup 
of  cold  boiled  rice  and  omitting  \  a  cup  of  flour ;  add  the 
rice  before  the  eggs,  and  finish  as  directed. 


384  GOOD-LIVING. 

HOE-CAKE. 

I  pint  of  corn-meal,  )/2  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Water. 

Mix  the  corn-meal  with  the  salt  in  a  bowl.  Add  enough 
boiling  water  to  just  moisten  the  meal,  and  let  it  stand  10 
minutes.  Then  add  more  boiling  water  until  the  batter  will 
drop  from  the  spoon.  Bake  in  cakes  on  a  hot  griddle 
greased  with  a  piece  of  fat  salt-pork.  When  done,  put 
a  piece  of  butter  on  the  top   of  each    cake  and    serve. 

The  old  Southern  colored  cooks  were  famous  for  these 
cakes,  which  they  baked  before  a  wood-fire  on  their  hoes. 

JOHNNY-CAKE. 

r  pint  of  buttermilk,  3  eggs, 

I    "     "   Indian-meal,  I  teaspoon  of  soda  or  saleratus, 

i  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted,  I  "       "    salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  until  very  light  ;  add  them  to  the 
buttermilk ;  then  add  these  to  the  Indian-meal  with  the 
melted  butter  and  salt ;  beat.  Dissolve  the  soda  or  saleratus 
in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling  water ;  add  this  to  the  batter ; 
mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  a  shallow,  greased  baking-pan. 
Bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  30  minutes. 

CORN-CAKE. 

1  pint  of  sweet  milk,  scalded,         3  eggs,  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  apart, 
Butter  size  of  an  egg,  2  gills  of  corn-meal, 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Sprinkle  the  corn-meal  into  the  milk  ;  remove  from  the 
fire  ;  add  the  butter  and  salt  while  the  milk  is  hot.  Beat  the 
yolks  and  mix  into  the  meal ;  add,  lastly,  whites  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready,  heated  very  hot,  gem-pans  or  I 
large  pan.  Butter  these  thoroughly.  Bake  20  minutes  or 
more,  according  to  the  size  of  the  pans,  in  a  quick  oven. 


CORN-DROPS.  385 

CORN-BREAD. 

2  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  Corn-meal  for  stiff  batter, 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  2  eggs, 

I         "  "  flour,  1  pint  of  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  of  baking-soda. 

Mix  together  milk,  beaten  eggs,  and  sugar ;  stir  these  into 
the  flour  and  corn-meal ;  then  add  melted  lard.  Dissolve  the 
soda  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water  ;  add  it  and  beat  hard 
for  several  minutes.  Have  ready  heated,  greased  dripping- 
pans  ;  pour  in  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick 
oven  for  20  to  30  minutes. 

VIRGINIA   CORN-CAKES. 

I  quart  and  1%  gills  of  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

I     "      of  corn-meal,  4  eggs. 

1  gill  of  melted  butter. 

Put  the  meal  in  a  3-quart  bowl  with  the  salt.  Pour  over  it 
about  £  the  milk.  Mix  well.  Add  the  butter  and  eggs 
well  beaten  together ;  then  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Beat  again. 
Bake  on  a  hot  griddle  greased  with  a  piece  of  fat  salt-pork. 

ALABAMA   CORN-CRUST. 

1  pint  of  corn-meal,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar, 

1  %  teaspoons  of  salt,  1  pint  of  boiling  water, 

1  egg. 

Stir  the  boiling  water  into  the  meal,  sugar,  and  salt  ;  mix 
well.  Stir  in  the  beaten  egg,  and  spread  thin  in  small  biscuit- 
pans.  Smooth  with  a  knife  dipped  in  cold  water,  and  score 
it.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  slightly  browned,  about  10 
minutes.     Watch  that  it  does  not  scorch. 

CORN-DROPS. 

I  pint  and  1  gill  of  cold  milk,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  gills  of  corn-meal, 

2  ounces  of  butter. 

Set  the  pint  of  milk  over  boiling  water  on  the  fire  ;  when 
boiling,  stir  in  the  meal  mixed  with  the  gill  of  cold  milk,  salt, 
25 


386  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  melted  butter.  Stir  and  cook  until  the  batter  is  like 
mush  ;  remove  from  the  fire  ;  beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs 
apart.  Add  the  yolks  to  the  batter  and  beat  ;  then  add  the 
whites.  Beat  all  together  very  light,  then  drop  it  in  separate 
spoonfuls  on  a  greased  tin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
brown,  about  1 5  to  20  minutes.  Be  careful  that  the  cakes 
do  not  scorch. 

DELICATE  CORN-ROLLS. 

1  quart  of  milk,  I  pint  of  wheat  flour, 

2  gills  of  corn-meal,  I  ounce  of  butter, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  eggs, 

I  teaspoon  of  baking-soda,  and  2  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  2  heaping  teaspoons  of 
Royal  baking-powder. 

Scald  i  pint  of  the  milk  on  the  fire  over  boiling  water 
add  to  it  the  butter,  salt,  and  the  meal,  mixed  smooth  with 
a  little  of  the  cold  milk.  Stir  and  let  it  cook  until  like  thick 
mush.  Stir  in  the  cold  milk  mixed  with  the  beaten  yolks  of 
the  eggs  ;  then  the  flour  sifted  with  the  cream  of  tartar ;  then 
add  the  soda,  dissolved  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  hot  milk. 
Add,  lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  gem- 
pans  in  a  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 

PLAIN  CORN-DROPS. 

3  gills  of  boiling  water,  1  pint  of  corn-meal, 

2  ounces  of  butter,  yz  teaspoon  of  salt, 

3  tablespoons  of  milk,  2  eggs. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  corn-meal,  butter,  and  salt. 
Add  the  milk  and  eggs,  these  last  beaten  together  until  light. 
Mix  well  and  drop  by  the  spoonful  on  greased  tins,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  1 5  to  20  minutes.  Watch  that  they  do  not 
scorch. 

PUFFS. 

1  egg  beaten  very  light,  1  gill  of  flour, 

2  gills  of  milk,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Mix  milk  and  egg  ;  stir  these  into  the  flour  and  salt. 
Have  your  gem-pans  very  hot.  Grease.  Pour  in  the  batter 
and  bake  30  minutes,  or  until  the  top  is  a  firm  crust.  These 
may  also  be  served  for  dessert  with  a  sweet  sauce. 


POP-OVERS.  387 

LAPLANDERS. 

1  full  pint  of  flour,  Pinch  of  salt, 

I  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Heat  the  milk  to  nearly,  but  not  quite,  boiling.  Stir  in 
butter  and  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  them  into 
the  milk ;  then  add  the  milk  to  the  flour,  and  lastly  the 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Have  the  pans  hissing  hot ;  pour  in  the 
batter,  and  bake  until  brown,  in  a  quick  oven.  This  will 
take  from  20  to  30  minutes.  These  may  also  be  eaten  with 
a  sweet  sauce  for  dessert. 

BREA  KFA  S  T  PUFFS. 

2  gills  of  water,  5  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour, 

2     "    "  milk,  Pinch  of  salt, 

2  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  apart. 

Stir  the  water,  milk,  salt,  and  yolks  into  the  flour.  Beat 
smooth.  Add  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Mix  smooth  and 
bake  in  1  large  puff  or  in  small  pans  15  to  30  minutes, 
according  to  size.  The  pans  should  be  very  hot  and  well 
greased. 

POP-OVERS,  NO.  I. 

1  pint  of  milk,  I  egg, 

1  "     "  flour,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  egg  and  mix  it  with  the  milk ;  stir  all  into  the 
flour.  Heat  gem-tins  very  hot ;  grease  with  lard  ;  fill  ^-full 
and  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.    Recommended. 

POP-OVERS,  NO.  II. 

2  cups  of  milk,  2  eggs, 

2     "     "  flour,  1  even  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Beat  whites  and  yolks  apart.  Stir  the  milk  and  eggs 
together  into  the  flour.  Beat  smooth.  Add  salt.  Lastly 
add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Heat  gem-pans  very 
hot.  Grease;  fill  -|-full.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  min- 
utes or  more,  until  a  firm  crust  is  formed.  Or,  bake  in  tea- 
cups, and  serve  with  Wine  or  Lemon  Sauce  (see  receipt). 


388  GOOD-LIVING. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 

Use  same  batter  as  for  Pop-overs,  substituting  \  Graham 
flour. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

1  quart  of  cold  water,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

3^  cups  of  buckwheat,  i  gill,  or  yz  cake,  of  yeast, 

2  tablespoons  of  molasses,  ^  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Select  buckwheat  of  the  best  quality.  Put  the  cold  water 
into  a  stone  jar  with  a  narrow  neck  (there  are  jars  made 
expressly  for  the  purpose) ;  add  salt  and  buckwheat,  and  rub 
perfectly  smooth.  Add  the  yeast,  or  the  !~cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast,  dissolved  in  I  gill  of  tepid  water.  Mix  well. 
Put  on  the  cover  of  the  jar ;  set  it  in  a  moderately-warm 
place  overnight.  Next  morning,  add  \  a  teaspoonful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water ;  beat  this  thoroughly 
through  ;  mix  in  the  molasses,  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 
Test  i  cake,  and  if  it  is  bitter  or  heavy,  add  a  little  more 
soda  to  the  batter  as  above.  Reserve  I  cupful  of  this 
batter  as  the  foundation  of  the  next  batch  of  cakes.  Leave 
it  in  the  jar,  cover  it  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  set  it  in  a 
cool  place  until  evening ;  then  pour  off  the  clear  water  from 
the  top  (if  any)  ;  add  the  fresh  buckwheat,  water,  and  salt ; 
stir  smooth,  and  set  away  until  next  day,  repeating  this  pro- 
cess as  long  as  you  care  to  eat  buckwheat  cakes.  The  grid- 
dle should  be  heated  gradually  until  very  hot.  Grease  with 
fat  pork.  If  well  made,  these  cakes  should  be  like  a  net- 
work of  air-holes,  as  light  as  possible. 

BUTTERMILK  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

I  quart  of  buttermilk,  i  teaspoon  of  baking-soda, 

I  teaspoon  of  salt,  i  egg, 

Flour  for  thin  batter. 

Beat  the  egg  together  ;  add  to  it  the  buttermilk  and  salt. 
Mix  well.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  2  tablespoonfuls  of  boiling 
water  ;  stir  it  into  the  buttermilk,  then  add  this  instantly  to 
the  flour,  stirring  all  the  time.     Any  delay  will  make  the 


RICE  GRIDDLE   CAKES.  389 

cakes  heavy.  The  batter  should  be  thin  enough  to  pour 
smoothly  from  the  spoon.  Beat  well  and  bake  quickly  on  a 
hot  griddle,  greased  with  a  piece  of  fat  salt-pork.  (Or,  the 
soda  may  be  dissolved  as  above,  and  added  to  the  batter 
last,  after  which  beat  the  batter  for  1  or  2  minutes.) 

CORN-MEAL   GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

I  quart  of  sour  or  buttermilk,  2  eggs,  beaten  light, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  molasses, 

1         "         "baking-soda,  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  melted, 

1  gill  of  flour,  Corn-meal  for  thin  batter. 

Mix  together  eggs,  milk,  and  molasses,  and  add  these  to 
the  flour ;  mix  in  enough  corn-meal  to  make  a  batter  of  the 
thickness  of  rich  cream.  Add  the  melted  lard ;  then  the 
soda  dissolved  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water.  Beat  very 
hard.  Have  the  griddle  very  hot,  and  grease  with  a  piece 
of  fat  salt-pork.  Test  a  little  of  the  batter ;  it  should  run 
easily,  and  the  cakes  should  be  so  thin  that  you  can  only 
just  turn  them  with  the  cake-turner.  If  too  thick,  add  a 
little  more  buttermilk  and  a  pinch  of  soda  as  before ;  if  too 
thin,  add  a  little  more  corn-meal.    Delicious.    Recommended. 

OATMEAL    GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

1  pint  of  cold  boiled  oatmeal,  2  cups  of  flour, 
y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  milk, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  2  eggs, 

1  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Beat  the  milk  into  the  oatmeal ;  then  add  the  salt,  yolks, 
and  boiling  water.  Mix.  Add  the  flour  sifted  with  the 
baking-powder ;  beat  again  ;  lastly  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  well  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle  greased 
with  a  piece  of  fat  salt-pork. 

RICE    GRIDDLE    CAKES. 

1  pint  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  Royal  baking-powder, 

2  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice,  2  cups  of  flour, 
yz  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  eggs, 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter. 

Rub  the  rice  through  a  sieve  ;  add  to  it  the  eggs  well 
beaten  together;  the  melted  butter;  milk;  then  the  flour 


390  GOOD-LIVING. 

sifted  with  the  powder.  Mix  well  and  bake  immediately  on 
a  hot  griddle,  greased  with  a  piece  of  fat  salt-pork.  Or,  these 
may  be  made  with  yeast  instead  of  baking-powder,  adding 
I  gill  of  yeast  or  \  a  yeast-cake  dissolved  in  I  gill  of  luke- 
warm water,  standing  the  batter  in  a  warm  place  at  least  2 
hours  before  baking. 

HOMINY  GRIDDLE   CAKES, 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  rice  griddle  cakes,  substituting  the 
same  quantity  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  and  not  passing  it 
through  a  sieve. 

RAISED  FLANNEL-CAKES. 

I  pint  and  I  gill  of  milk,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

I  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  eggs, 

I  gill  of  yeast,  or  %  compressed  yeast-cake,  3  cups  of  flour. 

Scald  the  milk  and  add  the  butter ;  set  it  aside  to  cool. 
When  lukewarm,  add  the  yeast  (or  yeast-cake  dissolved  in 
£  a  gill  of  warm  water).  Add  salt  and  beat  well.  Cover 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  overnight.  Next  morning  beat 
the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  apart ;  add  first  the  yolks,  then 
the  whites,  to  the  batter;  beat  well.  Set  aside  15  minutes. 
Then  bake  on  a  hot,  greased  griddle. 

QUICK  FLANNEL-CAKES. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour,  1  pint  and  2  gills  of  milk, 

2  ounces  of  butter,  3  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  with  the  hands  until  evenly 
mixed ;  mix  in  the  salt.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  to 
the  milk  ;  add  this  to  the  flour ;  beat  hard  until  smooth  ;  then 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  baking- 
powder.  Bake  quickly  on  a  hot  griddle,  greased  with  a  piece 
of  fat  salt-pork. 


FRITTER  BATTER. 


FEA  THER-CAKES. 


391 


2  ounces  of  butter,  melted,  1  pint  of  milk, 

1  egg,  Pinch  of  salt, 

2^  teaspoons  Royal  baking-powder,  sifted  with  2^  cups  of  flour. 

Mix  the  flour,  salt,  and  powder ;  mix  egg  and  milk ;  mix 
the  milk  into  the  flour  and  beat  until  smooth.  Bake  on  a 
hot  griddle. 

STALE-BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1  quart  of  milk,  scalding  hot,  2  eggs, 

1  pint  of  stale  bread-crumbs,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,         Flour  for  thin  batter,  3  ounces, 
2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  or  ]/2  teaspoon  of  soda  and  1  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk  for  1  hour,  then  beat  it  smooth. 
Beat  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  apart,  until  very  light.  Add 
to  the  bread,  first  the  yolks,  then  the  flour,  butter,  and  salt. 
Beat  again  ;  add  baking-powder  and  whites  of  eggs,  and  bake 
quickly  on  a  hot  griddle,  greased  with  fat  salt-pork.  Or,  the 
bread-crumbs  may  be  stirred  into  the  batter  at  the  time  of 
baking,  not  soaked  as  above. 

FRITTER  BA  TTER. 

4  ounces  of  flour,  %  level  saltspoon  of  grated  nutmeg, 

I  level  saltspoon  of  salt,  2  eggs, 

yi    "  "         "    pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  olive  oil, 

1  cup  of  cold  water,  more  or  less. 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg, 
and  oil  (the  latter  makes  it  crisp),  then  add  -the  water ;  enough 
of  the  latter  to  make  the  batter  sufficiently  stiff  to  hold  the 
drops  from  the  spoon  in  shape  when  dropped  from  it.  Stir 
in,  lastly,  the  2  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  When 
the  lard  is  boiling,  deep  enough  to  float  the  fritters,  dip 
whatever  you  wish  to  fry  into  the  batter,  covering  it  on  all 
sides ;  drop  into  the  lard  and  fry  until  golden  brown.  Drain 
on  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  This  is  a  good, 
crisp  batter. 


392  GOOD-LIVING. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 

I  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs, 

54  cup  of  flour,  1  saltspoon  of  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  very  light.  Add  salt  and  milk. 
Pour  £  on  the  flour.  Rub  smooth.  Add  the  rest  of  the 
milk.  Remove  the  roast-beef  from  the  roasting-pan.  Pour 
off  the  gravy,  leaving  a  little  drippings.  Pour  in  the  batter 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  20  minutes  or  more,  according  to 
size.  Serve  under  roast-beef  ;  or  cut  in  even  pieces  and  serve 
around  the  beef. 

N.  B. — The  pudding  may  be  baked  in  another  pan  while 
the  beef  is  roasting.  Grease  the  pan  with  some  of  the  drip- 
pings of  the  beef,  and  bake  as  directed. 

DUMPLINGS. 

1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  ]^  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Milk  to  make  soft  dough,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking-powder. 

Sift  together  the  powder  and  flour  ;  add  salt  and  milk. 
Do  not  handle  too  much.  Have  ready  the  pot  of  boiling 
gravy  or  salted  water ;  drop  the  dough  by  even  bits  into  the 
pot;  cover;  boil  10  minutes,  steadily,  but  not  too  hard. 

NOTE. — If  cooked  in  gravy,  be  careful  that  it  does  not 
scorch. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS. 

]^  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  %  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Twice  the  bulk  of  suet  in  flour,  }(  cup  of  ice-water. 

Chop  the  suet  fine  ;  measure  it  with  a  cup,  and  allow  twice 
the  bulk  in  flour ;  add  salt ;  mix  ;  moisten,  with  the  ice- 
water,  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  Roll  into  balls  the  size  of 
a  hickory-nut ;  drop  into  boiling  soup  or  gravy.  Cover,  and 
cook  15  minutes.  If  in  gravy,  be  careful  that  it  does  not 
scorch. 


CREAM   TEA-CAKES.  393 

BUTTERMILK  DUMPLINGS. 

iyi  cups  of  buttermilk,  I  teaspoon  of  baking-soda, 

Flour  for  stiff  batter,  2  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  together ;  mix  them  with  the  milk.  Dissolve 
the  soda  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water ;  mix  it  with  the 
milk ;  pour  the  milk  instantly  into  the  flour,  blending  to  a 
smooth,  soft  dough.  If  sweet  milk  is  used,  allow  I  teaspoon 
of  Royal  baking-powder  to  each  cup  of  flour  instead  of  the 
soda.  Sift  the  powder  with  the  flour.  Drop  the  dough  by 
the  teaspoonful  into  boiling  water ;  cover,  and  boil  steadily, 
but  not  too  rapidly,  for  10  minutes. 

VELVET-CAKES  FOR  TEA. 

i  quart  of  sifted  flour,  i  pint  of  sweet  milk, 

I  gill  of  sugar,  I  yz  ounces  of  butter, 

3  even  tablespoons  of  baking-powder,  I  egg. 

Beat  the  egg,  butter,  and  sugar  together,  until  very  light ; 
sprinkle  into  them  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking-powder. 
Mix  flour,  sugar,  etc.  Stir  in  enough  of  the  milk  for  a  stiff 
batter,  and  beat  thoroughly.  Add  the  rest  of  the  milk. 
Beat  again.  Pour  into  well-greased  gem-pans,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven,  15  to  20  minutes. 

CREAM  TEA-CAKES. 

I  pint  of  sour  cream,  1  quart  of  sifted  flour, 

1  egg.  beaten,  Pinch  of  salt, 

Small  lump  of  butter,  size  of  a  hickory-nut,  yz  teaspoon  of  soda. 

Mix.  The  dough  should  stand  1 5  minutes,  then  be  rolled 
out  \  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  in  rounds,  and  baked  on  a  hot 
griddle.     Spread  with  butter,  and  serve  hot. 


CAKES. 
WEDDING  CAKE. 

I  pound  of  butter,  I  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

1  "       "  flour,  4  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned. 

2  pounds  of  currants,  cleaned,  I  pound  of  citron, 

I  cup  of  N.  O.  molasses,  I  pint  of  best  brandy, 

Ground  spices  to  taste,  18  eggs,  yolks  only. 

Rub  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Strain  in  the  molas- 
ses. Clean  the  Currants  as  directed  (see  receipt).  Stone  the 
raisins  (see  receipt).  Slice  the  citron.  Add  the  yolks  of 
eggs ;  then  the  brandy,  \  the  flour,  and  spices  to  taste. 
Shake  the  fruit  in  the  remaining  flour  until  well  coated  ;  then 
add  all  the  fruit  and  flour  to  the  cake.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Bake  in  3-quart  tins,  lined  with  thick  paper  very  well 
greased.  It  must  be  baked  in  a  very  slow  oven,  and  will 
require  about  4  hours.  If  the  oven  gets  at  all  hot,  cool  it  by 
opening  the  cover  over  the  top.  Cover  the  top  with  thick 
paper.  When  cold,  ice  the  top  of  the  cake  (see  receipt  for 
Icing.) 

TROY  LOAF-CAKE. 

1  quart  of  sifted  flour,  8  ounces  of  butter, 

1  pint  of  "  A  "  or  "  C"  sugar,  2  gills  of  cold  water, 

3  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  3  eggs, 

%,  small  nutmeg,  grated. 

Sift  the  baking-powder  and  flour  together.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  yolks,  water,  and  flour.  Add, 
lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready  2  parrS 
well  greased  with  lard  and  lined  with  thin  paper  also  greased. 
Pour  in  the  mixture.  It  should  fill  each  pan  about  £-full. 
394 


ANGEL   CAKE.  395 

Set  in  a  quick,  but  not  scorching,  oven.  Shut  the  door  very 
gently,  and  be  careful  not  to  jar  the  cake,  or  it  will  be  heavy. 
Do  not  open  the  door  for  about  10  minutes,  and  then  as 
little  as  possible,  and  very  gently.  If  the  cake  is  baking 
quicker  one  side  than  the  other,  turn  it  around  very  care- 
fully, but  not  until  the  cake  has  begun  to  set.  If  the  top 
browns  too  quickly,  cover  with  a  layer  of  thick  paper.  If  it 
cracks  ever  so  little,  lessen  the  heat  of  the  oven  by  opening 
the  range-cover  above  it  on  a  crack  about  \  of  an  inch  wide. 
A  cracked  loaf-cake  is  never  a  light  cake.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  in  the  baking,  for  as  much  of  the  success  depends 
upon  that  as  upon  the  ingredients  and  the  manner  of  com- 
bining them.  Bake  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Test  through  the 
middle  with  a  broom-whisp.  If  it  comes  out  perfectly  dry, 
the  cake  is  done.  Turn  it  out  on  an  inverted  sieve  to  cool. 
Ice  it,  or  simply  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it. 

ARCHANGEL  CAKE. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter, 

2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1    "     "   "A"  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking-powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  ;  add  flour,  and  flavor 
with  lemon,  or  bitter  almond  and  rose-water.  Add  lastly  the 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  layers  6  to  10  minutes, 
and  fill  with  Almond  Paste  Filling  (see  receipt),  or  bake  in  a 
turk's-head  tin.  For  directions  for  baking  loaf-cake,  see 
Troy  Loaf-Cake.  Bake  for  about  30  minutes  in  a  moderately- 
quick  oven.     Superior  to  Angels'  Food. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

3  gills  of  granulated  sugar,  sifted  twice,  1 1  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff 

1  cup  of  flour,  sifted  4  times,  froth,  with  a  pinch  of  salt, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  best  cream  of  tartar,      1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten  whites  ;  beat  lightly  until 
well  mixed.  Sift  the  cream  of  tartar  with  the  flour  a  fifth  time. 
Add  the  flour  to  the  eggs,  and  beat  again.     Last  of  all,  add 


396  GOOD-LIVING. 

vanilla.  Line  a  turk's-head  tin  with  paper,  using  no  grease. 
Fill  the  pan  not  more  than  f-full ;  or  use  2  small  tins.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  40  minutes.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp. 
When  done,  turn  the  cake  upside  down,  and,  when  cold,  ice 
the  bottom  with  Egg-Icing  (see  receipt). 

N.  B. — Do  not  use  any  other  pan  than  that  which  has  a 
tube  in  the  centre  (turk's-head). 


POUND-CAKE. 

7  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  8  ounces  of  sugar, 

6       "        "  butter,  ^  teaspoon  of  ground  mace, 

j4  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  4  eggs. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  stir  the  flour  into  it.  Beat 
together  the  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light,  then  mix  them 
with  the  butter  and  flour.  Add  lemon  and  mace,  and  lastly 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready  loaf- 
tins  lined  with  well-greased  paper.  Bake  about  30  minutes 
in  a  moderately-quick  oven.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  For 
detailed  directions  for  baking,  see  Troy  Loaf-Cake. 

AURORA  LOAF-CAKE. 

11  ounces  of  butter,  1  pint  and  2  gills  of  sugar, 

2  pints  and  2  gills  of  flour,  2  gills  of  milk, 

I  gill  of  wine  and  brandy  mixed,  5  eggs, 

i}i  pounds  of  stoned  raisins,  3  teaspoons  of  baking-powder. 

Sift  the  flour  and  powder  together.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar ;  add  the  yolks  and  beat  until  very  light ;  stir  in  the 
milk.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  dry  froth,  and  add  them  and  the 
flour  alternately  ;  then  add  the  wine,  and  lastly  the  raisins, 
well  floured  and  shaken  until  each  raisin  becomes  coated  on 
all  sides.  Stir  only  just  enough  to  mix.  Have  ready  deep 
pans  lined  with  paper  greased  with  lard,  and  bake  in  a  quick, 
but  not  scorching,  oven  for  fully  45  minutes.  Cover  the 
cake  with  a  layer  of  thick  paper.  For  detailed  directions 
for  baking,  see  Troy  Loaf-Cake. 


SPONGE-CAKE.  397 

SPONGE-CAKE  NO.  I. 

I  pound  of  sifted  powdered  sugar,  II  eggs, 

3  teaspoons  of  Cleveland  or  2  of  Royal  Juice  of  i  lemon, 

■  -■•  baking-powder,  Grated  rind  of  ]/>,  lemon, 

io  ounces  of  sifted  flour. 

Cream  together  the  yolks  and  sugar.  Add  the  lemon- 
juice  and  rind  ;  then  the  flour  ;  then  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add,  lastly,  the  baking-powder,  and 
stir  lightly  but  thoroughly.  Line  a  long  loaf-pan  with  well- 
greased  thin  paper  and  fill  |-full  with  the  batter.  Set  in 
a  moderately-quick  oven  for  25  to  35  minutes.  Test  with  a 
broom-whisp.  If  it  comes  out  perfectly  dry,  the  cake  is  done. 
Watch  carefully  that  it  does  not  brown  too  quickly  or  un- 
evenly ;  if  too  quickly,  cover  with  brown  paper.  Besides 
this  loaf-cake,  this  receipt  will  make  a  layer-cake  of  4  layers. 
When  eggs  are  plentiful,  it  is  economical.  The  layer-cake 
may  be  filled  with  lemon  or  other  filling.     Recommended. 

SPONGE-CAKE  NO.  II. 

6  eggs>  %  tne  weight  of  eggs  in  flour, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  Weight  of  eggs  in  sugar. 

Weigh  the  sugar  and  flour ;  separate  the  yolks  and  whites 
of  eggs.  Sift  the  flour.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  very  stiff 
froth.  Grate  the  lemon-peel,  and  strain  the  juice.  Have 
the  cake-pan  greased  (an  oblong  one  is  best)  and  every  thing 
in  readiness  before  putting  together  the  ingredients.  Beat 
the  yolks  and  sugar  until  very  light  and  pale  yellow.  Now 
add  the  juice  and  rind  of  lemon  and  \  of  the  flour.  Mix 
well.  Now  add  \  the  whites  of  eggs ;  mix  carefully  and 
quickly ;  then  the  second  \,  and  mix ;  then  the  remaining 
whites  of  eggs.  Stir  as  little  as  is  necessary  to  mix  in  the 
whites ;  pour  into  I  or  more  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
30  to  45  minutes,  according  to  size.  If  the  top  is  inclined 
to  brown  too  quickly,  lay  a  paper  over  it.  The  art  of  making 
good  sponge-cake  lies  in  the  order  of  mixing  the  ingredients, 
and  upon  the  mixing  being  done  very  quickly. 


398  GOOD-LIVING. 

LAYER  SPONGE-CAKE. 

r  cup  of  sifted  powdered  sugar,  3  eggs, 

I    "      "      "      flour,  Lemon  extract, 

1  medium  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking-powder. 

Cream  together  the  yolks  and  sugar ;  add  lemon-extract 
to  taste ;  the  flour  and  baking-powder  sifted  together,  and 
lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in 
well-greased  jelly-cake  tins  for  about  10  or  12  minutes.  Fill 
with  Lemon,  Chocolate,  or  other  Filling  (see  receipts). 
Recommended. 

FRENCH  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  milk,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of   Royal  baking- 
3  gills  of  "A"  sugar,  powder, 

3  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  1  gill  of  butter, 

froth,  3  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together ;  add  the  milk ;  then 
the  flour,  which  is  sifted  with  the  baking-powder.  Flavor 
with  extract  of  bitter  almonds  and  rose-water,  or  other  flavor- 
ing to  taste.  Add  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Bake  in  a  loaf  for  about  25  or  30  minutes  (for  direc- 
tions see  Troy  Loaf-Cake),  or  in  layers,  6  to  10  minutes. 
For  the  latter,  the  oven  should  be  quicker  than  for  the  loaf. 
Fill  with  Almond  or  other  Filling  (see  receipts).  Ice  to  taste. 

SAVOY  CAKE. 

GATEAU   DE   SAVOIE. 

4  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  3  eggs, 

\%  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  1  ounce  of  corn-starch, 

Vanilla  to  taste. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  flour,  corn- 
starch, and  vanilla.  Mix  well.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  them  in  lightly,  but  thoroughly. 
Butter  a  cake-mould,  turk's-head,  or  other;  coat  the  bottom 
and  sides  with  powdered  sugar  ;  fill  f-full  with  the  batter, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  about  45  minutes. 
For  directions  for  baking,  see  Troy  Loaf-Cake. 


DRIED-APPLE   OR  ECONOMICAL  FRUIT-CAKE.         399 
MANQUE  T. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  yi  pound  of  "  A  "  sugar, 

Grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  I  ounce  of  melted  butter, 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten. 

Cream  together  the  yolks  and  sugar,  beating  until  very 
light ;  add  the  rind  of  lemon  Add  lastly  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready  a  cake-pan  well 
greased  ;  dust  it  on  sides  and  bottom  with  flour ;  pour  in 
the  batter  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  30 
minutes  or  more.  For  directions  for  baking,  see  Troy 
Loaf-Cake. 

CAKE   WITHOUT  EGGS. 

3  gills  of  "A"  sugar,  2  cups  of  sifted  flour, 

1  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  I  cup  of  milk, 

2  tablespoons  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

Small  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  flour,  salt,  then 
milk  and  flavoring,  and  beat  hard  ;  add  baking-powder.  Mix 
well  and  bake  in  a  tin  lined  with  thin,  greased  paper,  about 
30  minutes  or  more.  For  directions  for  baking,  see  Troy 
Loaf-cake. 

DRIED-APPLE  OR  ECONOMICAL  FRUIT-CAKE. 

y£  pound  of  butter,  1  large  tablespoon  of  lard, 

^     "        "  dried,  sour  apples,  %  pound  "of  "A"  or  "  C"  sugar, 

1  pint  and  2  gills  of  N.  O.  molasses,  1  JS^T  pounds  of  sifted  flour, 

2  gills  of  stoned  raisins  {%  lb.),  1  tablespoon  of  baking-soda, 
1  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  Juice  of  1  lemon, 

1  tablespoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  1  egg, 

I  "  "         "      mace,  1  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves, 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Soak  the  apples  in  water  overnight.  Next  morning, 
drain ;  chop  ;  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  the  molasses  and 
spices.  When  they  come  to  a  boil,  set  a  little  aside  where 
they  will  stew  gently  for  20  minutes.  Stir  occasionally  to 
prevent  scorching.     Set  away  to  cool.     Meanwhile,  cream 


400  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  butter  and  sugar.  When  the  molasses  is  cold,  stir  in  the 
butter,  sugar,  egg,  flour,  and  baking-powder.     Beat  hard  for 

3  or  4  minutes.  Dissolve  the  soda,  which  should  be  a  little 
more  than  a  level  tablespoonful,  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling 
water.  Have  ready  the  raisins,  shaken  in  flour,  until  each 
one  is  well  coated  all  over.  Now  beat  in  the  soda  for  a 
minute  or  more ;  then  stir  in  the  raisins  lightly  and  quickly. 
The  batter  should  be  thick  enough  to  drop,  not  pour  from 
the  spoon.  Have  ready  2  large  loaf-pans  lined  with  well- 
greased,  thin  paper.  Fill  f-full  of  the  batter,  and  set  in  a 
moderately-quick  oven.  The  oven  should  at  no  time  be 
intensely  hot.  After  15  minutes,  when  the  cake  should  be 
set,  turn  off  all  excessive  heat.  Cover  the  top  with  a  layer 
of  brown  paper,  and  bake  in  all  about  45  minutes.  If  the 
oven  is  too  hot,  the  cake  will  crack  and  be  heavy.  Test 
with  a  broom-whisp  ;  when  it  comes  out  perfectly  dry,  the 
cake  is  done.  This  is  an  excellent  cake  which  can  be 
recommended  for  large  households  ;  it  is  economical. 

GINGERBREAD. 

1  quart  of  darkest  Porto  Rico  molasses,  i  teaspoon  of  soda  and  I  of  cream  of  tartar, 
1  pound  of  dark-brown  sugar,  or  2  of  Royal  baking-powder,  heaping, 

I  cup  of  milk,  6  eggs, 

4  cups  of  sifted  flour,  or  more,  }i  pound  of  butter, 

I  large  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,    I  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger, 
^  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves. 

Warm  the  molasses  slightly ;  strain  it  into  a  bowl  with  the 
butter,  and  beat  it ;  then  add  the  other  ingredients,  sifting  the 
cream  of  tartar  or  baking-powder  with  the  flour,  and  adding 
enough  flour  to  make  quite  a  stiff  batter.  If  soda  is  used, 
dissolve  it  in  a  little  of  the  milk  ;  add  it  last,  and  beat  for 
several  minutes.  If  the  above  quantities  of  spices  are  not 
sufficient,  add  ginger  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Line  deep 
pans  with  well-greased  paper ;  fill  about  f-full  with  the  bat- 
ter, and  bake  about  I  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  If  it  browns  too 
quickly,  cover  it  with  a  piece  of  paper.  Test  with  a  broom- 
whisp.  For  directions,  see  Troy  Loaf-Cake.  You  may  add 
to  the  above,  raisins,  washed,  stoned,  and  shaken  in  flour. 


GINGERBREAD  WITHOUT  BUTTER   OR  EGGS.        401 

GINGER  CAKE. 

I  tablespoon  of  lard,  1  teaspoon  of  baking-soda,  dissolved  in 
1  cup  of  very  thick  sour  cream,  a  little  warm  water, 

1  gill  of  "A"  or  "C"  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1  teaspoon  of  powdered  cinnamon,  3  gills  of  molasses, 

About  ■$%  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking-powder, 

1  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger. 

Mix  all  well  together,  adding  the  baking-powder  with  the 
last  cup  of  flour.  After  that,  beat  hard  for  1  minute  or  2. 
Have  ready  deep  pans,  lined  with  well-greased  paper ;  fill 
|~full  with  the  batter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  to  30 
minutes.     Test  with  a  broom-whisp. 

N.  B. — A  quick  oven  will  make  gingerbread  heavy. 

MOLASSES  CAKE. 

2  cups  of  molasses,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  warm 
Ground  ginger  and  cloves  to  taste,  water, 

2,%.  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  cup  of  butter, 

I  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  1     "     "milk, 

4  eggs. 

Mix  all  together,  adding  soda  last.  Beat  well ;  pour  into 
pans  lined  with  greased  paper,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Do 
not  fill  the  pans  more  than  1  inch  deep,  and  bake  20  to  30 
minutes.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  Two  teaspoons  of 
Royal  baking-powder  may  be  substituted  for  the  cream 
of  tartar  and  soda. 

GINGERBREAD  WITHOUT  BUTTER  OR  EGGS. 

1  gill  of  lard,  1  cup  of  molasses, 

1  cup  of  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  ground  ginger, 

1  teaspoon  of  baking-soda,  Flour. 

Put  the  molasses,  lard,  and  ginger  on  the  fire.  When 
warmed,  and  the  lard  has  melted,  beat  for  10  minutes. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water.  Mix 
it  and  the  milk  with  the  molasses  ;  then  add  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Beat  well.  Have  ready  a  greased  drip- 
ping-pan.    Pour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  10  minutes  in  a 

quick  oven.     This  quantity  will  fill  a  10  x  15-inch  pan  about 
26 


402  GOOD-LIVING. 

\\  inches  deep.     It  does  not  bake  well  if  too  deep.     Test 
with  a  broom-whisp.     Recommended  as  being  excellent. 

COCOA-NUT  LOAF-CAKE. 

%  pound  of  butter,  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon, 

2  gills  of  milk,  %  pound  of  "  A  "  sugar, 

i  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,     ^       "       "  flour, 
2  full  cups  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  5  eggs, 

}£  grated  nutmeg,  no  more. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  add  the  yolks,  and  beat  very 
light ;  mix  in  the  milk,  then  flour  and  lemon,  and  beat  well. 
Stir  in  the  cocoa-nut.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Sift 
over  them  the  baking-powder.  Add  these  at  the  last  mo- 
ment, and  mix  lightly  but  thoroughly.  Have  ready  2  loaf- 
pans,  lined  with  very  thin  paper  well  greased  with  lard. 
Divide  the  batter  between  the  2,  filling  not  more  than 
f-full.  Bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  45  minutes 
to  1  hour.  If  it  browns  too  quickly,  cover  with  thick  paper. 
Do  not  let  it  bake  rapidly  enough  to  crack  the  cake,  or  it 
will  not  be  light.  For  directions  for  baking,  see  Troy  Loaf- 
Cake.  When  it  is  thoroughly  done,  remove  from  the  oven ; 
cover  the  top  with  fresh  grated  cocoa-nut  and  sifted  powdered 
sugar.  Set  on  a  sieve  to  cool.  Handle  very  carefully.  Re- 
move the  paper  when  cool.     Delicious. 

COCOA-NUT  LA  YER  CAKE  NO.  L 

Take  2  layers  of  Layer  Cake  No.  II.  (see  receipt)  ;  lay  1  on 
a  plate,  with  the  under-side  uppermost.  Spread  over  this  a 
layer  of  Ice-Cream  Filling  (see  receipt).  Over  this  spread  a 
thick  layer  of  grated  cocoa-nut ;  then  the  second  layer  of  cake, 
with  the  top  uppermost.  Spread  this  also  with  Ice-Cream 
Filling,  made  a  little  stiffer  with  sugar ;  or  use  Egg-Icing. 
Pack  the  top  all  over  with  grated  cocoa-nut,  covering  sides 
and  all,  so  that  nothing  shows  but  the  white  of  the  cocoa-nut. 
Set  away  for  2  hours  ;  transfer  very  carefully  to  a  plate,  on 
which  is  a  fancy-cut  paper,  and  serve.     Recommended. 

Or,  use  Cocoa-nut  Filling  (see  receipt). 


PHILADELPHIA    WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE.  403 

COCOA-NUT  LA  YER  CAKE  NO.  II. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Cocoa-nut  Layer  Cake  No.  L, 
spreading  first  a  moderately-thick  coating  of  very  good 
currant-jelly  upon  the  cake,  then  the  filling  and  cocoa-nut  as 
described.  Finish  as  directed.  Recommended.  Or  use 
Cocoa-nut  Filling  (see  receipt). 

PHILADELPHIA    WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

1 1  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  j4,  pound  of  flour, 

3  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  5  eggs, 

Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  gill  of  sherry, 

%  teaspoon  of  ground  mace,  2  gills  of  milk, 

3  ounces  of  corn-starch,  6  ounces  of  butter, 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  add  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  beat  as  light  as  possible.  Add  vanilla,  lemon, 
and  mace.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth  ;  add 
them  gradually  and  alternately  with  the  milk  to  the  batter. 
Sift  the  corn-starch  and  baking-powder  together,  and  add 
them  gradually  to  the  mixture,  beating  quickly  all  the  time  ; 
then  pour  into  3  large  jelly-cake  tins  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven  about  10  to  12  minutes.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp  ;  if 
it  comes  out  dry,  the  cake  is  done.  Turn  the  layers  out  on 
a  board  ;  then  turn  them  back  again  to  bring  the  upper-side 
on  top. 

N.  B. — If  you  use  Royal  baking-powder,  2  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  will  suffice ;  of  Cleveland's,  use  the  quantity 
named. 

FILLING   FOR   SAME. 
Whites  of  2  eggs,  yi  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 

1  gill  of  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  forms  a  thread 
when  dropped  from  the  spoon.  The  whites  of  eggs  must  be 
beaten,  meanwhile,  as  stiff  as  possible.  Put  them  into  a 
small  bowl  (a  i-quart  bowl  will  do),  and,  when  the  syrup 
has  reached  the  proper  point,  take  it  off  instantly  and  beat 
the  syrup  into  the  whites  of  eggs  with  a  Dover  egg-beater, 


404  GOOD-LIVING. 

adding  the  former  by  degrees.  Continue  to  beat  steadily 
until  perfectly  cold.  This  point  may  be  attained  more 
quickly  by  standing  the  bowl  near  an  open  window,  or  by 
setting  it  in  a  pan  with  a  small  piece  of  ice  ;  but  beat  contin- 
ually. In  testing  this  receipt,  it  is  found  that  the  amount  of 
filling  given  makes  only  enough  for  2  layers  of  medium  size. 
It  is  therefore  recommended  to  use  the  same  proportions, 
that  is  :  1  white  of  egg,  %  a  gill  of  water,  and  \  pound  of 
powdered  sugar  for  each  additional  layer.  The  filling  should 
be  very  thick  between  the  layers  of  cake ;  at  least  \  an 
inch  thick.  If  the  sugar  has  been  boiled  to  the  exact  degree 
(wherein  lies  the  one  difficulty  of  making  it  in  perfection) 
the  filling  will  be  as  smooth  and  mellow  as  whipped  cream 
and  stiff  enough  to  hold  itself  in  shape  like  thick  meringue. 
Spread  the  filling  between  the  layers  of  cake,  and  finish  the 
top  with  a  little  sifted,  powdered  sugar.  Dexter,  of  Phila- 
delphia, is  famous  for  the  above  cake.  The  secret  of  the 
perfection  of  his  manufacture  is  not  divulged,  but  this  is  a 
very  good  imitation. 

VERY  LIGHT  PLAIN  CAKE. 

1  yz  cups  of  "  A  "  sugar  (the  "  A  "  is  essential),     Lemon  or  vanilla  extract  to  taste, 

1  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs, 

2  teaspoons  of  Royal  baking-powder,  1  cup  of  cold  water, 

3  cups  of  sifted  flour. 

Mix  all  together,  the  baking-powder  with  the  last  cup  of 
flour.  Pour  into  pans  lined  with  greased  paper,  and  bake  15 
to  30  minutes,  according  to  size.  If  it  browns  too  quickly, 
cover  with  a  paper.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  For  directions 
for  baking,  see  Troy  Loaf-Cake.     Recommended. 

DAINTY  CAKES. 

Bake  the  batter  for  Plain  Cake  in  gem-pans  for  10  to  12 
minutes.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  When  cold,  cover  with 
Lemon  Icing  made  without  eggs  (see  receipt).     Delicious. 


CREAM  PUFFS.  405 

LA  YER  CAKE  NO.  L 

Make  the  batter  as  for  Plain  Cake ;  bake  it  in  jelly-cake 
tins.  In  a  quick  oven  it  will  require  only  about  6  or  8  min- 
utes. Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  When  cold,  spread  with 
jelly,  marmalade,  or  filling  to  taste  (see  receipts).  Ice  the 
top,  or  sift  powdered  sugar  over  it. 

LADY  CAKE. 

1  pound  of  sugar,  ^  pound  of  butter, 
^      "      "  flour,  Whites  of  10  eggs. 

Mix,  adding  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Flavor  with  extract  of  bitter  almond  and  rose-water.  Bake 
in  1  or  2  loaves.  Line  the  tins  with  thin,  greased  paper. 
For  directions  for  baking,  see  Troy  Loaf-Cake.  When  cold, 
ice  the  tops  (see  receipts). 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

CHOUX   A  LA   CREME. 

2  gills  of  boiling  water,  1  saltspoon  of  soda, 
1  large  cup  of  flour,                                    3^"  pound  of  butter, 

5  eggs. 

Stir  the  butter  into  the  boiling  water  over  the  fire.  Then 
stir  in  the  flour  until  perfectly  blended  and  cooked,  and  the 
paste  leaves  the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  Remove  from  the 
fire  and  beat  in,  1  by  1,  the  eggs,  turning  always  one  way. 
Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water,  and  add  it 
to  the  paste  ;  beat  well.  Butter  a  sheet  of  tin  and  drop  the 
batter  upon  it,  1  tablespoonful  for  each  puff.  Do  not  let 
them  touch.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  1 5  minutes.  When 
done,  make  an  opening  in  the  side  with  a  sharp  knife  and 
fill  with  a  custard  made  of  : 

1  quart  of  milk,  boiling,  5  eggs,  well  beaten, 

3  tablespoons  of  corn-starch,  Vanilla  to  flavor. 


406  GOOD-LIVING. 

Rub  up  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  water ;  add  it  to  the 
boiling  milk.  Stir  and  boil  for  3  minutes.  Remove,  and  beat 
it  into  a  bowl  in  which  the  eggs  have  been  mixed.  Stir,  and 
sweeten  to  taste.  Return  to  the  fire,  over  boiling  water ;  stir 
for  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  boil,  or  the  eggs  will  curdle. 
Or,  use  the  paste  given  for  Coffee  Eclairs.  Bake  and  finish 
as  above. 

COFFEE  ECLAIRS. 

ECLAIRS   AU    CAFE. 

1  ounce  of  butter,  2^  ounces  of  flour, 

6  tablespoons  of  water,  4  eggs, 

%  pound  of  sugar,  Whipped  cream,    >  of  Coffee  Fm. 

1  gill  of  strong  coffee,  Coffee,  ' 

Put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire  with  6  tablespoons 
of  boiling  water.  When  beginning  to  boil,  add  the  flour 
(about  the  quantity  indicated,  perhaps  a  pinch  more).  Stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon  3  minutes,  or  until  it  leaves  the  sides 
of  the  saucepan  and  is  very  stiff.  Remove,  and  add,  1  at 
a  time,  the  eggs,  stirring  each  in  very  thoroughly.  Have 
ready,  slightly  greased,  an  eclair-pan  (they  can  be  had  made 
of  sheet-iron,  and  are  very  good).  Set  in  a  quick  oven  for 
about  15  minutes.  Watch  very  carefully,  as,  if  the  oven  is 
too  hot,  they  may  scorch.  They  must  not  brown.  When 
done,  make  an  incision  in  the  side  of  each  and  fill  with 
sweetened,  whipped  cream  flavored  with  coffee,  or  with 
Coffee  Filling  (see  receipt). 

Icing :  Put  into  a  china-lined  saucepan  the  sugar  and  1  gill 
of  very  strong,  good  coffee  ;  a  mixture  of  Mocha  and  Java  is 
best.  Boil  it  until  it  makes  a  thread  when  dropped  from  the 
spoon.  Drop  a  little  into  a  cup  of  cold  water ;  take  it  be- 
tween thumb  and  finger,  and,  if  it  makes  a  fine  thread  with- 
out breaking,  it  is  ready.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir 
until  it  begins  to  thicken  slightly  ;  then  coat  each  Eclair 
with  it. 


MACAROONS.  407 

KISSES. 

MERINGUES. 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  9  ounces  of  granulated  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  stir  the  sugar  in  very 
gently.  Have  ready  a  board  about  1  inch  thick,  which  will 
fit  in  your  oven.  Cover  the  board  with  white  paper.  With 
a  tablespoon,  put  upon  this  the  mixture  in  any  shape  you 
fancy  ;  the  shape  of  a  large  half-egg  is  the  best.  Set  the 
board  in  a  slow  oven,  and  bake  slowly ;  on  this  depends  a 
great  part  of  the  success  of  making  good  kisses.  They 
should  be  at  least  1  hour  in  the  oven,  and  should  become 
quite  hard  to  the  touch,  without  being  more  than  a  pale, 
light  brown.  If  they  show  signs  of  browning  too  much  or  too 
soon,  cover  with  thick  paper.  When  done,  detach  them 
from  the  paper  with  a  knife,  and  put  them  together  in  pairs. 
Or,  they  may  be  baked  in  sections  about  4  inches  long,  and, 
when  done,  the  flat  sides  may  be  slightly  excavated,  filled 
with  ice-cream,  then  joined  together,  and  served  as  Mfringnes 
Glares. 

COCOA-NUT  MACAROONS. 

3  whites  of  eggs,  %,  pound  of   desiccated  cocoa-nut,  or 

1  teaspoon  of  extract  of  bitter  almonds,  allow  same  bulk  of  fresh,  grated, 

2  gills  of  rolled  and  sifted  crackers,  l/z  pound  of  powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  all  the  ingredients 
together  and  bake  in  drops  on  a  well-greased  paper  on  tin, 
in  a  very  moderate  oven,  until  firm  and  light-brown,  15  to 
20  minutes. 

N.  B. — The  extract  of  bitter  almonds  should  measure  I 
even  teaspoonful. 

MACAROONS. 

MACARONS. 

1  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  Rose-water, 

I       "       "  fine  sugar,  7  whites  of  eggs. 

Blanch  ;  skin  the  almonds,  and  pound  to  a  paste  in  a  mor- 
tar, adding  a  little  rose-water  by  degrees.     Add  the  sugar 


408  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Drop  on  well- 
greased  paper  ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  light  brown. 

LAYER   CAKE  NO.   II. 

3  eggs>  beaten  whites  and  yolks  apart,  Lemon-rind  and  vanilla  to  taste, 

2  cups  of  sifted  flour,  %  teaspoon  of  ground  mace  may  be 
il/z  cups  of  "A"  sugar  (essential),  added, 

I  heaping  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking-  i  cup  of  butter, 

powder,  I     "     "  milk. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  together  ;  add  yolks  and  flavor- 
ing. Beat  well.  Add  milk  ;  the  flour  which  has  been  sifted 
with  the  baking-powder,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  on  well-greased  jelly-tins  in  a 
quick  oven  about  6  or  8  minutes.  This  will  make  6  medium- 
sized  layers.     Recommended. 

WINE    CAKE. 

Layer  Cake  No.  II.,  Currant-jelly, 

Sherry,  Powdered  sugar, 

Spread  I  layer  of  cake  with  the  jelly.  Cover  it  with  a  second 
layer  of  cake.  Make  the  icing  as  directed  (see  receipt  for 
Wine  Icing).  Set  away  to  harden.  Then  transfer  to  a  plate 
on  which  is  a  fancy-cut  paper,  and  serve.     Recommended. 

COFFEE   LAYER   CAKE. 

Layer  Cake  No.  II.,  Coffee  Icing, 

Coffee  Filling. 

Lay  i  layer  of  cake  on  a  plate  with  the  upper-side  down ; 
spread  thickly  with  Coffee  Filling  (see  receipt).  Cover  with 
a  second  layer  of  cake ;  spread  this  with  Coffee  Icing  (see 
receipt).  Set  away  for  I  or  2  hours.  Then  transfer  to  a 
plate  on  which  is  a  fancy-cut  paper,  and  serve.  Recom- 
mended. 

ORANGE  LAYER    CAKE. 

Make  4  layers  of  Layer  Cake  No.  II.  (see  receipt),  grating 
into  the  batter  the  rind  of  1   orange.     Prepare  a  Custard 


SMALL  POUND-CAKES.  409 

Filling  (see  receipt)  flavored  with  the  rind  of  1  and  juice  of 
2  oranges.  When  cold,  place  this  between  the  layers  of 
cake.  Make  an  icing  of  the  strained  juice  of  1  orange,  into 
which  beat  powdered  sugar  until  just  thick  enough  to  spread 
over  the  top  of  the  cake.  Let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  and 
add  a  second  layer  of  icing,  if  liked.  Decorate  with  glac6d 
oranges  and  cherries.     Recommended. 

LA  YER  CAKE  A  U  RHUM,  OR  KLRSCH. 

Prepare  2  layers  of  Layer  Cake  No.  II.  Lay  1  layer  on  a 
plate  with  the  upper-side  down.  Spread  it  thickly  with  rasp- 
berry-and-currant  jelly  or  with  cider  jelly  (the  jelly  must  be 
a  little  tart).  Put  the  second  layer  over  this.  Make  an  icing 
of  1  gill  of  Jamaica  rum  or  kirsch,  with  powdered  sugar 
beaten  into  it  until  just  thick  enough  to  spread.  Cover  with 
this  and  set  away.  After  \  an  hour,  a  second  layer  of  icing 
may  be  added  if  liked.     Recommended. 

WALNUT  CAKE. 

Make  2  layers  of  Layer  Cake  No.  II.  Lay  1  layer  on  a  plate 
with  the  upper-side  down ;  spread  it  with  a  thick  coating  of 
Ice-Cream  Filling  (see  receipt).  Upon  this  place  shelled  and 
skinned  walnuts.  Cover  with  a  second  layer  of  cake.  Spread 
with  a  second  layer  of  filling,  and  sprinkle  all  over  the  top, 
very  neatly,  the  nuts  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

HAZEL-NUT  CAKE. 

Proceed  as  for  Walnut  Cake,  substituting  hazel-nuts  shelled, 
skinned,  and  split. 

SMALL  POUND-CAKES. 

3  eggs,  Their  weight  in  butter, 

Their  weight  in  sugar,  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  ^  a  lemon, 

"         "       "flour,  1  ounce  of  Preserved  Lemon  Peel  (see  receipt). 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  beating  thoroughly  (this  may 
be  done  with  the  hand).     Add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  beat 


4IO  GOOD-LIVING. 

until  very  light.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  dry  froth  and  add 
them  and  the  flour  alternately.  Add  the  lemon-juice  and 
rind  and  the  preserved  peel  cut  into  small  bits.  Beat  hard 
for  several  minutes  until  very  light.  Have  ready  well-greased 
gem  or  patty-pans.  Fill  them  f-full  of  the  mixture  and  bake 
in  a  moderately-quick  oven  1 5  to  20  minutes.  Test  with  a 
broom-whisp.  Set  on  an  inverted  sieve  to  cool.  Ice  the  top 
with  Lemon  Icing,  if  liked. 


PROMISES. 

1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  i  egg, 

6  ounces  of  sugar,  }(  pound  of  butter, 

yi  cup  of  rum  or  sherry. 

Mix  together  the  egg,  sugar,  and  butter,  then  add  the 
flour;  mix  evenly;  then  add  the  rum  or  sherry.  When 
mixed  to  an  even  dough,  about  as  stiff  as  soft  putty,  lay  a 
lump  of  it  in  a  large  baking-pan,  and,  with  the  hand,  press  it 
out  as  thin  as  possible,  not  more  than  -|  to  \  of  an  inch  thick. 
This  is  a  little  tedious,  but  rolling  does  not  accomplish  at  all 
the  same  results.  If  you  keep  a  plate  of  flour  near  by,  and 
dip  your  hand  into  it  now  and  again,  it  will  be  easier.  It  is 
worth  the  trouble,  being  a  most  delicious  cake,  and  not  at  all 
common.  When  the  bottom  of  the  pan  is  covered,  sift  over 
the  dough  some  powdered  sugar  mixed  with  a  little  pinch  of 
ground  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  until 
the  edges  are  quite  brown  and  the  rest  pale  yellow,  like  deli- 
cate pie-crust.  Remove  it  from  the  oven.  Take  immediately 
a  sharp  knife  and  cut  through  the  cake  the  length  of  the  pan, 
then  cut  it  across  in  strips  about  1  inch  wide.  Take  these 
out  carefully,  as  they  break  easily,  and  lay  on  a  platter. 
They  will  harden  as  they  get  cold.  As  the  above  quantity 
makes  a  large  number  of  cakes,  it  will  be  much  quicker  to 
have  several  pans  in  use  at  a  time.  Dish  the  cakes  on 
cut  paper  in  a  pile,  placing  layers  of  4  at  right  angles.  Serve 
with  tea  or  coffee.     Highly  recommended. 


OLD-FA  SHIONED  JUMBLES.  4 1 1 

VITEMENT  FAIT. 

2  eggs,  Flour, 

Pinch  of  salt,  Butter, 

Sugar. 

To  the  egg  and  salt,  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough 
just  sufficiently  stiff  to  roll  out  as  thin  as  a  chamois-skin. 
Lay  this  upon  shallow  tins.  Put  small  lumps  of  butter  over 
the  top  ;  sift  sugar  over  all,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about 
3  to  5  minutes,  or  until  very  slightly  browned.  Powdered 
cinnamon  may  be  added  to  the  sugar  according  to  taste. 
When  removed  from  the  oven,  and  still  hot,  cut  or  break 
into  more  or  less  even  pieces.  As  it  cools,  it  will  become  per- 
fectly firm  and  crisp. 

JUMBLES. 

%  pound  of  butter,  %  nutmeg,  grated, 

j£      "       "  powdered  sugar,  3  eggs, 

3^      "       "  sifted  flour,  I  tablespoon  of  rose-water, 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  eggs  together ;  add 
them  to  the  butter ;  then  add  rose-water  and  nutmeg ;  lastly, 
add  the  flour.  Dust  the  bread-board  with  granulated  sugar ; 
roll  out  the  mixture  -|-  of  an  inch  thick ;  cut  with  a  round  cut- 
ter ;  take  the  centre  out  with  the  top  of  the  pepper-caster ; 
bake  these  rings  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  edges  brown 
slightly.  Or,  when  done,  draw  the  pan  to  the  mouth  of  the 
oven ;  brush  over  the  cake  with  white  of  egg  and  sift  with  very 
coarse  sugar.  If  this  is  done,  the  cakes  should  be  rolled  out 
on  a  floured  board. 

Old-fashioned  jumbles. 

I  pound  of  flour,  i/j  pound  of  butter, 

4  yolks  of  eggs,  2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  light, 

Y^  pound  of  sugar. 

Mix ;  roll  out  very  thin  on  a  board  covered  with  granu- 
lated sugar ;  cut  in  rounds  and  bake  in  tins  in  a  quick  oven. 


412  GOOD-LIVING. 

COCOA-NUT  DROPS. 

Equal  parts  of  grated  cocoa-nut  and      6  whites  of  eggs  to  every  pound  of 
granulated  sugar,  the  mixture. 

Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth ;  mix  with  sugar  and 
cocoa-nut.  Drop  on  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  a  very  moder- 
ate oven  until  very  slightly  browned. 

CRISP  COOKIES  WITHOUT  SODA. 

I  pound  of  sugar,  I  pound  of  flour, 

%     "      "  butter,  5  eggs, 

%  grated  nutmeg. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  add  yolks.  Beat  until  light. 
Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  beat  them  in  with  the 
flour  and  nutmeg.  Roll  thin  on  a  floured  board  ;  cut  in 
rounds  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  5  minutes. 

WALNUT  WAFERS. 

2  gills  of  brown  sugar,  ]/^  teaspoon  of  salt, 

2  "     "  shelled  walnuts,  3  even  tablespoons  of  flour, 

2  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  together ;  add  sugar,  salt,  and  flour,  then 
the  walnuts.  If  not  quite  stiff  enough,  add  a  little  more 
flour.  Drop  in  small  heaps  on  well-greased  paper  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  until  brown,  about  5  minutes.     Excellent. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 

3  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  1  pound  of  butter, 
]4,  pound  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  molasses, 

1  y2  ounces  of  ground  ginger,  3  teaspoons  of  baking-soda, 

2  "         "       "       cinnamon,  2         "         "  tartaric  acid, 

2  ounces  of  ground  allspice. 

Strain  the  molasses.  Cream  together  butter  and  sugar, 
and  add  all  the  other  ingredients,  the  soda  dissolved  in  a 
few  drops  of  boiling  water ;  add  the  tartaric  acid  lastly  with 
the  flour.  Use  as  little  extra  flour  for  board  and  rolling-pin 
as  may  be  convenient.     Roll  as  thin  as  possible ;    cut   in 


DROP    CAKES.  413 

rounds  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  3  to  5  minutes.  Do  not 
bake  too  long,  as  all  ginger  snaps  easily  acquire  a  burned 
taste  if  very  much  browned.  Watch  closely,  as  they  scorch 
easily.  The  above  ginger  snaps  are  recommended,  being 
very  delicate,  brittle,  and  at  the  same  time  rich. 

NOBBY  BUNS. 

2  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  I  pound  of  butter, 

4  teaspoons  of  ground  cinnamon,  6  eggs, 

JX  pounds  of  sugar. 

Mix  the  cinnamon  through  the  flour.  Work  the  butter  to 
a  cream  and  mix  it  with  the  flour.  Beat  together  sugar  and 
eggs ;  then  mix  all  as  quickly  as  possible.  Handle  as  little 
as  you  can.  Have  ready  flat  sheets  of  tin,  well  greased. 
Drop  the  mixture  in  rough,  jagged  heaps  by  the  spoonful, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  until  the  edges  and 
points  are  nicely  browned. 

DROP  CAKES. 

I  pound  of  flour,  less  3  level  tablespoonfuls,  5  eggs, 

1       "        "  sugar,  }£  pound  of  butter, 

%     "        "currants,  2  gills  of  sweet  milk, 

J^  teaspoon  of  soda  and  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  or  i)4  teaspoons 

baking-powder. 

Sift  flour,  soda,  and  cream  of  tartar  together  through  a  fine 
sieve  (or  baking-powder,  if  you  use  that).  Cream  together 
butter  and  sugar  ;  add  a  little  of  the  milk  and  mix.  Now 
add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  beat  well ;  then  add  alternately 
milk,  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and  flour.  Grease  flat  tins ; 
drop  the  batter  on  them  in  separate  spoonfuls.  Have  the 
currants  cleaned  (see  receipt  To  Clean  Currants)  and  sprinkle 
a  few  over  the  top  of  each  cake.  Set  in  a  quick  oven  and 
bake  a  rich  brown.  The  cakes  will  run  together,  but  must 
be  broken  apart  when  taken  from  the  oven.  Cool  them  on 
a  sieve.  The  batter  for  this  cake  is  said  to  keep  I  week  in 
a  cool  place. 


414  GOOD-LIVING. 

MADELEINES. 

%  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  ]/z  pound  of  sifted  flour, 

Grated  rind  of  I  lemon,  4  eggs, 

^  pound  of  butter,  slightly  softened,  i]4  teaspoons  of  vanilla. 

Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  add  yolks,  lemon- 
rind,  and  vanilla,  and  beat  hard  until  very  light.  Then  add 
flour,  and,  lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix 
them  in  lightly  but  thoroughly.  Butter  gem-pans  or  tin 
shells  ;  fill  |-full  of  the  mixture  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
for  about  10  minutes.  Watch  carefully  and  brown  evenly. 
Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  When  it  comes  out  perfectly 
dry,  the  cakes  are  done.  Serve  as  soon  as  they  are  cool.  If 
kept  until  next  day,  they  must  be  shut  in  an  air-tight  tin  or 
stood  in  the  ice-box ;  but  they  should  be  eaten  fresh,  and 
will  be  found  most  excellent.  This  receipt  will  make  about 
24  small  cakes. 

QUEEN  CAKES. 

1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

%"    "       "  butter,  6  yolks  of  eggs, 

8  whites  of  eggs,  1  gill  of  sherry, 

1  gill  of  rose-water,  }4  "    "  brandy. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  ;  beat  the  yolks  to  a 
cream  and  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  wine, 
rose-water,  and  brandy.  Add,  alternately,  the  whites,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth,  and  the  flour.  Stir  only  just  enough  to  mix. 
Bake  in  small,  greased  gem-pans  in  a  moderately-quick  oven 
10  or  12  minutes.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp.  When  done, 
cool  on  an  inverted  sieve,  and  ice. 

CRULLERS. 

4  tablespoons  of  sugar,  Lard  for  frying, 

5  "  "  melted  lard  (measured  when      1  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon, 
melted),  3  eggs, 

Sifted  flour  for  soft  dough,  Powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs  together  with  the  sugar  and  cinnamon  ;  add 
the  lard,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  just  stiff  enough 


CHARLOTTE-RUSSE    CAKE.  415 

to  roll  out  \  an  inch  thick ;  do  not  add  any  more  than 
what  will  enable  you  to  handle  it.  Cut  the  paste  into  nar- 
row strips  ;  tie  the  strips  in  bows,  or  loops,  or  any  shape 
your  fancy  may  suggest.  Have  ready  on  the  fire  a  deep 
saucepan  or  kettle  with  at  least  3  inches  of  melted  lard.  It 
should  be  deep  enough  to  float  the  crullers,  so  that  they 
may  have  space  to  swell  without  touching  the  bottom. 
Bring  it  gradually  to  a  boil.  Test  it  (see  General  Direc- 
tions for  Frying).  When  certain  that  it  does  boil,  pro- 
ceed to  fry  the  crullers.  Have  at  hand  a  clean  skimmer, 
a  large  sheet  of  brown  paper  on  a  tin  in  the  open  mouth 
of  the  oven,  and  the  sugar.  When  every  thing  is  ready, 
take  a  plateful  at  a  time  of  the  crullers  ;  drop  them 
carefully  into  the  lard.  Watch  them,  and  turn  them  over 
with  the  skimmer  until  golden-brown  on  all  sides  ;  then 
drain  them  out  with  the  skimmer  and  lay  on  the  brown 
paper ;  as  soon  as  dry,  transfer  to  a  platter  and  powder 
generously  with  sugar.  Do  not  let  them  brown  too  much 
in  the  cooking.  If  not  too  stiff  with  flour,  these  will  be 
found  very  light,  crisp,  and  most  excellent. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

\x/z  cups  of  sugar,  1^  cups  of  sweet  milk, 

2  tablespoons  of  melted  lard,  2  eggs, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  Salt  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 

Mix  all  together,  adding  just  enough  flour  to  roll  out  half 
an  inch  thick.  Cut  in  rounds  with  a  small  tin  cutter,  and 
drop  into  deep  boiling  lard.  See  receipt  for  Crullers,  which 
are  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

CHARLOTTE-RUSSE  CAKE. 

2  ounces  of  butter,  2  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth, 

2       "       "  sifted  flour,  2  ounces  of  powdered  sugar, 

2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Mix,  adding  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in  2 
shallow  biscuit-tins,  the  batter  being  about  \  an  inch 
thick.  This  is  sufficient  to  line  a  quart  mould  of  Charlotte 
Russe. 


416  GOOD-LIVING. 

HENRIETTAS. 

3  eggs>  beaten  whites  and  yolks  apart.  Pinch  of  ground  cinnamon. 

I  scant  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  I  tablespoon  of  brandy, 

^  cup  of  milk  or  cream,  Salt  (pinch), 

Mix  all  the  above  ingredients,  and  add,  lastly,  just  enough 
flour  to  roll  out  easily.  Roll  as  thin  as  a  wafer ;  cut  2x2 
inches  square  ;  fry  in  boiling  lard  (see  General  Directions 
for  Frying).  When  gold-color,  drain  ;  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar  and  serve  for  tea. 

WASHINGTON  PIE. 

I  cup  of  "A"  sugar,  I  teaspoon  of  baking-soda  and    2 

3  cups  of  sifted  flour,  of   cream  of   tartar,  or  2  tea- 

I  egg,  spoons  of  baking-powder, 

i  cup  of  sweet  milk,  i  large  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Cream  together  sugar  and  butter;  add  egg;  then  milk;  then 
flour  sifted  with  the  cream  of  tartar  ;  lastly,  soda  dissolved 
in  a  few  drops  of  boiling  water.  (Or  use  instead  baking- 
powder,  sifting  it  with  the  flour.)  Beat  hard  for  I  or  2 
minutes.  Bake  in  jelly-tins  in  a  quick  oven  6  to  8  minutes. 
Fill  2  layers  with  Custard  Filling  flavored  with  vanilla  (see 
receipt) ;  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve  cold.  The 
remaining  layers  may  be  filled  with  jelly,  etc.,  to  taste. 

HUCKLEBERRY  CAKE. 

I  gill  of  butter,  1  pint  of  huckleberries, 

3  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  r  cup  of  "C"  sugar, 

Pinch  of  nutmeg,  3  cups  of  flour,  or  about, 

$£  cup  of  milk. 

Rub  together  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream.  Mix  in  the 
nutmeg  and  milk.  Now  mix  some  of  the  flour  with  the 
berries ;  shake  until  coated,  and  set  aside.  Mix  the  baking- 
powder  with  the  remaining  flour.  Add  it  to  the  batter. 
At  the  last  moment  stir  in  the  berries,  very  lightly,  not  to 
mash  them.     Have  ready  gem-pans  greased  with  lard.     Fill 


KAFFEE  KUCHEN.  417 

|-full  of  batter.  Set  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  20  to 
30  minutes.  Test  with  a  broom-whisp,  and  when  done 
serve  hot  for  tea. 

CHEESE-CAKES, 

\)/2  cups  of  cottage  cheese,  2  tablespoons  of  cream, 

1  gill  of  soft  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  melted  butter, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  3  eggs. 

Press  the  cheese  (see  Schmier-Kase)  through  a  colander. 
Beat  the  eggs  together  until  smooth.  Add  these  and  all 
the  other  ingredients  to  the  cheese.  Beat  smooth.  Have 
ready  1  pie-dish  or  several  small  patty-pans  lined  with  Flaky 
Crust  or  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipts)  ;  fill  with  the  cheese 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  25  to  30  minutes  for  the  large 
dish,  or  12  to  15  for  the  small  tins. 

KAFFEE  KUCHEN. 

1  pound  of  risen  dough  ready  for  the  oven,  2  whites  of  eggs, 
4  ounces  of  sugar,  I  egg, 

2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  3  ounces  of  butter, 

24  almonds. 

Cream  the  butter  and  beat  it  well  with  the  sugar  and  egg. 
Work  this  with  the  hand  into  the  dough  very  thoroughly. 
Set  m  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  pour  it  into  a 
small  dripping-pan  that  has  been  well  greased.  (When 
baked,  it  should  not  be  more  than  f  of  an  inch  thick.)  Let 
it  stand  10  or  15  minutes.  Put  it  in  a  moderately-quick 
oven,  and  while  it  is  baking,  prepare  the  icing.  The  cake 
should  bake  from  20  to  30  minutes,  according  to  the  heat 
of  the  oven.  Blanch  the  almonds  and  cut  them  in  little 
strips.  Beat  the  2  whites  of  eggs  slightly,  then  add  the 
powdered  sugar  by  degrees,  and  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy. 
When  the  cake  is  done,  draw  it  to  the  door  of  the  oven ; 
spread  it  with  the  icing ;  stick  it  all  over  with  the  almonds ; 
or  stir  them  into  the  icing  before  spreading  it.  Leave  it  in 
the  open  oven  door  until  dry ;  or  set  it  in  the  oven  for  2 
27 


41 8  GOOD-LIVING. 

or  3  minutes  until  the  almonds  are  a  little  browned.    Watch 
it,  that  it  may  not  scorch. 

N.  B. — It  will  be  noticed  that  the  icing  should  be  only 
about  \  as  thick  of  sugar  as  usual. 

APPLE   CHEESE-CAKES  (ENGLISH). 

8  ounces  of  apple-pulp,  Rind  and  juice  of  I  lemon, 

4  ounces  of  butter,  melted,  4  ounces  of  sifted  sugar, 

4  eggs. 

Pare,  core,  and  boil  enough  apples  to  make  \  a  pound 
when  pressed  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Add  the  sugar,  butter, 
and  the  eggs,  leaving  out  2  whites ;  add  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Stir  and  mix  well.  Line  small 
patty-pans  with  Flaky  Crust  (see  receipt) ;  fill  with  the 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  or  20  minutes. 


ICINGS    AND    FILLINGS    FOR    CAKES. 


APRICOT  OR  PEACH  FILLING. 

Peel  the  apricots  or  peaches,  and  cut  in  thin  slices ;  beat 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  until  light ;  then  add  gradually  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  hard  until  it  will 
stand  alone.  Put  a  layer  of  this  upon  the  layer  of  cake,  then 
a  layer  of  the  fruit ;  another  layer  of  cake  on  top  of  this ; 
repeat  for  as  many  layers  as  you  have ;  dust  the  top  with 
sugar,  and  serve. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

Melt  4  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  over  boiling  water. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  foam  ;  add  gradually  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  beating  all  the  while.  Beat 
until  stiff  enough  to  stand  alone ;  then  add  the  chocolate 
gradually,  beating  always.  Fill  the  cake  with  this,  and  ice 
the  top  with  Chocolate  Icing  (see  receipt).  Or,  add  to  the 
melted  chocolate  4  ounces  of  sugar  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla,  omitting  eggs. 

COCOA-NUT  FILLING. 

Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a  foam  ;  add  gradually  4  table- 
spoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until  it  will  stand 
alone.  Spread  a  layer  of  this  and  of  grated  cocoa-nut  between 
the  layers  of  cake.  Finish  the  top  also  with  a  layer  of  egg 
and  a  thick  coating  of  grated  cocoa-nut. 
419 


420  GOOD-LIVING. 

LEMON-  C  US  TA  RD  FILLING. 

1  cup  of  boiling  water,  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  I  lemon, 

2  heaping  teaspoons  of  corn-starch,       I  gill  of  sugar, 

2  eggs. 

Bring  the  sugar,  water,  and  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  to  a 
boil.  Blend  the  corn-starch  with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water. 
Stir  it  into  the  boiling  water  and  stir  while  it  boils  2  or  3 
minutes.  Beat  the  eggs  in  a  bowl,  and  when  the  water  and 
lemon  are  boiling,  stir  them  gradually  into  the  eggs,  stirring 
briskly.  If  not  quite  thick  enough,  set  over  boiling  water, 
and  stir  for  a  few  minutes  until  the  eggs  set  a  little.  Do 
not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Do  not  let  it  thicken  too 
much,  as  it  stiffens  when  cold. 

ORANGE-CUSTARD  FILLING. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Lemon-Custard  Filling,  substituting 
1  orange  for  the  lemon. 

ALMOND-PASTE    FILLING. 

Yi.  pound  of  sweet  almonds,  Sifted  powdered  sugar, 

1  ounce  of  bitter  almonds,  White  of  1  egg, 

Rose-water  to  taste. 

Blanch  the  almonds  and  pound  to  a  paste  in  a  mortar, 
adding  now  and  again  a  few  drops  of  rose-water  to  avoid 
oiling.  Mix  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Moisten  with 
the  white  of  egg ;  allow  it  to  dry  slightly,  and  then  spread 
on  thin  layers  of  cake  cut  into  neat  shapes ;  or  use  as  filling 
for  Archangel  Cake,  etc. 

COFFEE  FILLING. 

Make  a  cupful  of  strong  black  coffee,  Mocha  and  Java 
mixed ;  add  to  this  a  little  cream,  about  1  tablespoonful, 
and  ^  a  cup  of  sugar.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  stir  into  it  2 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  corn-starch  blended  with  a  little  cold 
coffee.  Have  2  eggs  beaten  in  a  bowl.  When  the  coffee 
has  boiled  3  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while,  pour  it  gradually 


COFFEE   ICING.  42 1 

upon  the  eggs,  stirring  briskly.  If  not  quite  thick  enough, 
set  over  boiling  water  on  the  fire,  and  stir  until  the  egg  sets 
a  little.  Do  not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Pour  this  over  the 
layer  of  cake,  placing  another  layer  on  top,  and  so  on.  Fin- 
ish the  top  with  Coffee  Icing  (see  receipt).  The  custard 
must  not  be  too  thick,  as  it  will  harden  in  cooling. 

CUSTARD  FILLING. 

Proceed  exactly  as  above,  substituting  milk  for  coffee, 
and  using  any  flavoring  that  may  be  preferred. 

ICE-CREAM  FILLING. 

2  whites  of  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar, 

Flavoring. 

Beat  the  whites  until  only  foamy,  then  beat  in  the  sugar 
by  degrees  and  beat  until  smooth,  stiff,  and  glossy.  It 
should  be  as  stiff  as  meringue,  not  as  stiff  as  icing.  The 
same  may  be  used  for  the  top  of  the  cake  also. 

LEMON  ICING. 

Squeeze  and  strain  the  juice  of  a  lemon ;  stir  into  it,  by 
degrees,  enough  sugar  to  enable  you  to  spread  the  icing. 
Having  covered  the  top  of  the  cake,  set  away  for  1  or  2 
hours  in  a  cool  place.  If  a  deeper  icing  is  required,  after 
the  cake  has  stood  for  a  few  minutes,  add  a  second  layer. 
Recommended. 

RUM,  BRANDY,  KIRSCH  ICING. 

For  a  moderate-sized  cake,  take  about  1  gill  of  either  of 
the  above ;  beat  in  powdered  sugar  until  thick  enough  to 
spread.  Cover  the  cake.  Set  away  for  1  or  2  hours  in  a 
cool  place.  If  a  thicker  icing  is  wanted,  after  \  an  hour  spread 
a  second  layer  over  the  first.     Recommended. 

COFFEE  ICING. 

Take  a  gill  of  very  strong,  well  cleared  and  strained  coffee ; 
stir  into  it  powdered  sugar  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 


422  GOOD-LIVIKG. 

Cover  the  cake  and  set  away  for  I  or  2  hours  in  a  cool  place. 
If  a  thicker  icing  is  wanted,  add  a  second  layer.  Recom- 
mended. 

ORANGE  ICING. 
See  Lemon  and  other  icings. 

EGG  ICING. 

1  pound  of  sugar,  Whites  of  3  eggs, 

Flavoring. 

Beat  the  whites  only  until  frothy,  not  stiff,  or  the  icing 
will  take  longer  to  dry.  Add  the  sugar  gradually,  beating 
all  the  while.  Flavor  to  taste  with  lemon,  orange,  vanilla, 
etc.,  adding,  however,  very  little  liquid,  or  more  sugar  will 
be  required.  When  stiff  enough,  dip  a  knife  in  cold  water 
and  smooth  the  icing  over  the  cake.  This  is  sufficient  to 
cover  a  good-sized  cake. 

CREAM  ICING. 

1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  1  gill  of  boiling  water, 

Whites  of  3  eggs. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  water  for  6  minutes,  or  until  it  makes  a 
thread  when  poured  from  the  spoon.  While  the  sugar  boils, 
beat  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Put  them  into  a  bowl,  and 
when  the  syrup  reaches  the  desired  point,  pour  it  in  a  fine 
stream  upon  the  eggs  while  you  beat  with  a  Dover  egg- 
beater.  When  thick  enough  to  spread,  dip  a  knife  in  cold 
water  and  smooth  the  icing  over  the  cake.  It  will  have  to 
be  beaten  until  almost,  if  not  quite,  cold. 

WINE  ICING. 
For  a  moderate-sized  cake,  take  I  gill  of  wine ;  stir  into  it 
enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  it  thick  enough  to  spread ; 
smooth  it  over  the  cake  and  set  it  away  for  an  hour  or  more 
in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  a  thicker  icing  is  required,  add  a 
second  layer.  This  system  is  strongly  recommended,  as 
being  very  simple  and  a  great  saving  of  time.  See  Lemon 
Icing,  etc. 


PASTRY,  PIES,  AND  PUDDINGS. 

PUFF-PASTE. 

PATE   FEUILLETEE. 

I  pound  of  dry  sifted  flour,  i  pound  of  freshest  butter, 

I  egg,  Ice-water,  about  I  gill. 

As  the  manipulation  of  puff-paste  is  the  most  important 
point  in  its  manufacture,  it  is  rather  difficult  to  reach  success 
through  a  recipe  alone  ;  if  you  cannot  see  it  made  once  by  a 
first-class  hand,  you  will  have  to  gain  your  own  experience 
by  patient  practice.  A  receipt  can,  after  all,  only  give  a 
certain  amount  of  assistance  towards  success  :  in  this  case 
much  depends  upon  the  cook.  First  of  all,  the  flour  must 
be  dry  and  of  the  best  quality  ;  the  butter  should  be  washed 
and  set  away  until  as  cold  and  firm  as  ice  ;  ice-water  should 
be  used  in  the  mixing ;  it  should  be  made  in  as  cool  a  place 
as  possible,  and  rolled  on  a  marble  slab.  When  all  is  ready, 
cut  the  butter  in  4  equal  parts.  Put  the  flour  in  a  mound  in 
a  bowl ;  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  break  in  the  egg  and 
work  it  in,  handling  very  little  and  lightly.  Add  just  enough 
ice-water  to  make  the  paste  soft  enough  to  roll  out.  Flour 
the  board  and  pin  with  a  little  extra  flour,  and  roll  out  the 
paste  quite  thin.  Take  £  of  the  butter,  break  it  up  in 
bits  ;  dot  these  over  the  surface  of  the  paste  ;  dredge  them 
very  lightly  with  a  little  extra  flour,  and  fold  the  paste  over 
from  the  sides  to  the  centre,  then  in  3.  Turn  |-way  round 
and  roll  this  again  until  quite  thin ;  add  the  second  %  of 
butter  broken  in  bits  as  before  ;  dredge  with  flour ;  fold  as 
before  and  roll  always  in  the  same  direction — from  you  ; 
423 


424  GOOD-LIVING. 

dredge  again.  Repeat  this  process,  turning  |-way  each 
time,  until  all  the  butter  is  in.  After  the  last  rolling,  fold  it 
again  and  cut  it  with  a  floured  knife  into  3  parts.  Lay 
these  on  plates  and  set  in  the  ice-box  for  an  hour  or  more, 
until  perfectly  firm.  It  is  now  ready  for  use.  For  pies,  it 
should  be  rolled  out  about  £  of  an  inch  thick  for  the  top  ;  the 
edges  should  have  1  or  2  extra  layers  of  paste.  It  is  best  to 
make  the  under-crust  of  Flaky  Crust  or  Good  Plain  Paste 
rolled  thin,  and  keep  the  puff-paste  for  the  upper  crust  and 
edges,  where  it  can  rise  better.  This  paste  does  for  vol-au- 
vents,  small  pates,  etc.,  etc.  For  these  latter,  it  is  advisable, 
when  the  empty  shell  is  baked,  to  draw  it  to  the  mouth 
of  the  oven,  brush  the  top  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  set  it 
back  for  1  minute  or  2  to  brown.  The  oven  should  always 
be  very  hot  and  very  even  for  baking  puff,  or  indeed  any, 
paste.  Do  not  set  the  pie-plate  too  near  the  inner,  or  fire, 
side  of  the  oven,  or  it  will  bake  unevenly,  one  side  rising 
higher  than  the  other. 

The  raw  paste  may  be  kept  for  24  hours  in  the  ice-box ; 
but  once  baked,  it  must  not  be  placed  near  the  ice,  or  it  will 
become  tough  beyond  correction. 

N.  B. — The  egg  may  be  omitted  if  desired,  but  is  consid- 
ered a  good  addition. 

FLAKY  PIE-CRUST. 

1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  9  ounces  of  butter, 

7  ounces  of  good  firm  lard,  )/2  teaspoon  of  salt, 

2  gills  of  ice-water. 

This  quantity  will  make  3  pies  of  ordinary  size.  Rub  the 
butter  and  flour  lightly  but  firmly  together,  being  careful  to 
keep  the  flour  always  between  the  lard  and  the  hand.  Add 
the  water,  mixing  with  a  knife.  Place  the  paste  on  a  floured 
board,  using  a  very  little  extra  flour ;  roll  it  into  a  thin 
sheet ;  dot  it  all  over  with  \  of  the  butter  ;  dredge  a  little 
extra  flour  over  it,  and,  with  the  hands  touching  as  little  as 
possible,  roll  it  up  like  a  sheet  of  music.  Divide  it  in  2. 
Divide  one  of  the  halves  into  3  parts  for  the  bottom  crust ; 


POTATO  PASTRY.  425 

roll  these  out,  and  cover  the  pie-plates.  Now  roll  the 
remaining  paste  into  a  thin  sheet.  Dot  it  over  with  \  the 
remaining  butter;  sift  a  little  flour  over  it ;  lap  the  4  corners 
toward  the  centre  ;  roll  again  thin  ;  dot  with  the.  remaining 
butter  ;  dredge  with  flour  ;  fold  as  before,  but  do  not  roll  out 
quite  as  thin.  Roll  into  a  thick  scroll.  To  cover  each 
pie,  cut  \  of  the  scroll,  flour  both  ends,  and  roll  it  on  the  end 
quite  thin.  Put  3  thin  layers  for  1  cover,  instead  of  1 
thick  layer,  notching  the  edges  together  and  trimming  neatly. 
N.  B. — Always  roll  in  the  same  direction — from  you. 
Bake  in    a    quick    oven. 

GOOD  PLAIN  PASTE. 

1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  l/2  pound  of  butter, 

^  pound  of  lard,  2  gills  of  ice-water, 

5  ounces  of  flour  for  board  and  pin,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  2-quart  bowl.  Cut  the  butter  and  lard 
(well  iced)  through  it  with  a  knife  into  bits  about  the  size  of 
a  cherry.  Sprinkle  the  water  over  all,  and  mix  with  a  knife, 
using  as  few  strokes  as  possible.  Flour  a  space  on  the  board 
about  24  x  18  inches.  Turn  out  the  dough  in  the  centre  of 
the  space.  Flour  the  pin,  and  roll  the  dough  until  nearly 
large  enough  to  cover  the  floured  space.  Now  sift  a  very 
thin  coating  of  flour  over  the  whole  sheet ;  fold  it  in  3, 
lengthwise  and  across,  making  a  piece  about  8x6  inches. 
Flour  the  board  again.  Roll  out  again  ;  sift  with  flour,  and 
fold  as  before ;  roll  a  third  time  ;  sift  again  ;  now  roll  it  like 
a  sheet  of  music.  Cut  it  across  the  centre  ;  lay  it  on  a  plate 
in  the  ice-box  for  15  minutes  or  longer;  then  it  may  be  used. 

POTATO  PASTRY. 

%  pound  of  sifted  flour,  }(  pound  of  mashed  potato, 

3  ounces  of  butter,  Pinch  of  salt, 

Ice-water. 

Press  the  potatoes  through  a  colander.  Add  flour,  butter, 
salt,  and  mix.  Add  enough  water  for  stiff  paste.  Roll  out. 
Use  for  plain  meat-pies,  etc. 


426  GOOD-LIVING. 

SUET  PASTE. 

1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  6  ounces  of  beef-suet, 

1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  cup  of  ice-water. 

Remove  the  fibres  from  the  suet,  and  chop  it  very  fine. 
Rub  in  the  flour  and  salt  with  the  hands.  Then  add 
enough  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out.  Use  for 
meat-pies  and  apple-dumplings. 

MINCE-PIE  NO.  I. 

1  fresh  tongue,  boiled  and  minced  very     1  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

fine,  1  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses, 

3  pounds  of  suet,  well  picked  over,  and     1  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  cin- 

laid  in  cold  water,  namon, 

4  pounds  of  raisins,  stoned,  not  chopped,      l/2  heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  cloves, 
4      "       "  currants,    cleaned    (see   re-     1         "  "  "        "    allspice, 

ceipt),  1  nutmeg,  grated, 

2  pounds  of  citron,  sliced,  1  pint  of  cider, 

2  quarts  of  brandy. 

Stir  all  but  the  brandy  together  ;  put  it  in  a  crock  without 
the  brandy,  and  leave  it  for  i  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Stir  oc- 
casionally. Then  remove  the  crock  from  the  oven  ;  stir  in 
brandy  enough  to  make  the  mixture  very  soft.  Cover 
closely,  and  set  away.  Allow  at  least  i  month,  or  if  pos- 
sible 6  weeks,  for  it  to  mature,  adding  a  little  brandy  from 
time  to  time,  if  it  dries  out  at  all.  Add  spice  or  sugar  to 
taste,  as  may  be  required.  To  make  up  the  pies,  add  4 
apples,  peeled  and  chopped,  to  about  1  quart  of  the  mince- 
meat. These  pies  have  quite  a  peculiar  charm  about  them, 
the  secret  being  that  the  excellent  housekeeper  who  makes 
them  always  adds,  at  the  last,  some  preserved  strawberries  and 
candied  cherries,  with  sufficient  fresh  brandy  to  make  the 
mince-meat  very  soft.  They  have  a  mellowness  of  flavor 
seldom  met  with  in  the  mince-pies  of  modern  times.  The 
pies  should  be  made  up  with  the  very  best  Puff-Paste,  or 
with  Flaky  Pie-Crust.  The  under-crust  should  be  very  thin, 
the  edges  built  up  with  1  or  2  extra  layers,  notched  together 
and  trimmed  neatly.    Bake  only  until  just  done,  allowing  for 


GALETTE.  427 

their  being  re-heated  when  used.  To  re-heat  them,  stand 
them  in  the  open  mouth  of  the  oven  for  1  hour  before 
serving.     Delicious. 

MINCE-PIE  NO.  II 

1  fresh  tongue,  boiled  and  minced  fine,  1  pound  sliced  citron, 

4  pounds  raisins,  stoned,  1       "      candied  lemon-peel, 

4       "       currants,  cleaned,  1  bottle  good  brandy, 

4  apples,  peeled  and  chopped,  Ground  cinnamon  \ 

4       "       suet,  freed  from  fibre,  and  chopped,  "       cloves         >-  to  taste. 

2  "       brown  sugar,  "       nutmeg      ) 

Mix  all  together,  and  set  away  in  stone  crocks  with  close- 
fitting  lids.  As  the  brandy  dries  off,  more  may  be  added. 
It  should  stand  at  least  6  weeks  before  using  ;  then  make  up 
as  required,  with  the  best  Puff-Paste  or  Flaky  Pie-Crust. 
See  preceding  receipt  for  further  details. 

PASTRY  SANDWICHES. 

Roll  out  some  Puff-Paste  (see  receipt)  very  thin.  Put 
I  of  it  on  a  sheet  of  tin  ;  butter  it  over  with  strawberry, 
raspberry,  or  other  fine  kind  of  preserve.  Cover  this  with 
the  other  half  of  the  paste  ;  press  the  edges  together  ;  trim 
neatly,  and  score  the  surface  in  squares  with  a  knife.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes  until  golden-brown.  When 
nearly  done,  draw  to  the  door  of  the  oven ;  brush  the  sur- 
face with  a  little  yolk  of  egg  mixed  with  a  few  drops  of  milk  ; 
sift  powdered  sugar  thinly  over  the  top,  and  return  to  the 
oven  until  nicely  colored.  When  cool,  cut  it  in  pieces  where 
you  have  marked  it  with  the  knife. 

GAIETTE. 

Roll  out  some  Puff-Paste  (see  receipt),  about  f  of  an  inch 
thick,  or  a  little  less.  Cut  it  out  in  a  circle  the  size  of  a 
large  jelly-cake  tin.  Lay  it  on  a  sheet  of  tin ;  mark  the  sur- 
face diagonally  with  a  knife.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  1 5  to  20 
minutes,  until  gold-color.  When  nearly  done,  brush  the 
surface  with  a  little  yolk  of  egg  mixed  with  a  few  drops  of 


428  GOOD-LIVING. 

milk ;  sift  very  lightly  with  powdered  sugar,  and  return  to 
the  oven  until  nicely  colored.     Serve  whole  when  cold. 

Or,  roll  out  some  Puff  Paste  (see  receipt),  very  thin.  Lay 
over  it  a  large  jelly-cake  tin  and  cut  the  paste  out  in  a  circle. 
Butter  this  over  with  Custard  Filling  (see  receipt),  made  a 
little  thicker  and  flavored  with  vanilla.  Lay  over  this  a 
second  layer  of  paste  cut  like  the  first  ;  press  the  edges 
together ;  score  the  surface  diagonally  with  a  knife.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes,  until  gold-color.  When 
nearly  done,  brush  the  surface  with  a  little  yolk  of  egg  mixed 
with  a  few  drops  of  milk ;  sift  powdered  sugar  very  lightly 
over  the  top,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  nicely  colored. 
As  soon  as  it  is  cool,  serve  immediately.  For  either  of  the 
above,  Flaky  Pie-Crust  (see  receipt)  may  also  be  used. 

OLD-FASHIONED  LEMON-CUSTARD  PIE. 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  4  whites  of  eggs, 

4  ounces  of  butter,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 

6  yolks  of  eggs. 

FOR  MERINGUE  : 
6  whites  of  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ;  then  add  the  4  un- 
beaten whites,  1  at  a  time,  beating  the  whole  very  light. 
Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  and  add  to  it  the  egg-mixture  by 
degrees.  Then  stand  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  on 
the  fire,  and  stir  without  ceasing  until  it  thickens.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  set  away  to  cool.  Line  2  deep  pie-dishes 
with  Flaky  Pie-crust  or  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipts),  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  15  minutes.  When  the  crust  is 
baked,  remove  from  the  oven  and  fill  with  the  Lemon  Cus- 
tard, pressing  down  the  bottom  crust  if  it  has  formed  any 
air-bubbles,  or  the  surface  of  the  pie  may  be  uneven.  Now, 
beat  the  6  whites  of  eggs  until  foamy ;  then  add  the  6 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  by  degrees,  beating  steadily. 
After  the  sugar  is  in,  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy.  Heap  the 
meringue  tastefully  on  top  of  the  custard  ;  sift  over  the  top 


PUMPKIN  PIE.  429 

a  little  granulated  sugar,  and  set  in  a  very  quick  oven  for 
about  2  minutes,  until  slightly  browned.  Watch  carefully 
that  it  may  not  scorch  or  brown  unevenly. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

1  quart  of  milk,  6  eggs, 

JK  gi^s  °f  sugar.  Pinch  of  salt, 

Vanilla  or  other  flavoring  to  taste. 

Line  a  deep  pie-plate  with  Flaky  Pie-Crust  or  Good  Plain 
Paste  (see  receipts),  rolled  thin.  Build  up  the  edges  with 
extra  rows  ;  trim  neatly  and  bake  until  pale  yellow.  Mean- 
while, make  the  custard  as  follows :  Scald  the  milk  over 
boiling  water ;  beat  the  eggs  together  in  a  bowl ;  beat  the 
sugar  and  the  flavoring  with  them.  When  the  milk  boils, 
pour  it  upon  the  eggs  very  gently,  and  stir  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  well-mixed.  Pour  this  into  the  crust ;  if  the 
edge  is  not  high  enough,  add  another  layer  and  notch  it 
neatly,  wetting  it  slightly  to  make  it  stick.  The  custard 
should  be  fully  I  inch  deep.  Bake  in  a  moderately-quick 
oven  until  the  custard  sets,  which  will  be  from  15  to  20 
minutes.  If  you  do  not  wish  to  use  so  many  eggs,  thicken 
the  boiling  milk  with  1  level  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch 
blended  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  milk  ;  bring  it  to  a 
boil  and  stir  until  slightly  thickened  ;  pour  this  over  4  eggs, 
etc.,  and  finish  as  above. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

To  I  quart  of  mashed  pumpkin  allow 

1  gill  of  flour,  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipt), 

1  tablespoon  of  good  liquor,  I  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 

yi  nutmeg  grated,  1  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  ]^       "         "  salt, 

^  teaspoon  of  ground  mace,  Sugar  to  taste, 

1  pint  of  milk  and  3  eggs,  or  1  quart  of  1  lemon,  grated  rind, 

milk  and  6  eggs,  yz    "        juice, 
%  teaspoon  ground  cloves. 

Peel  and  boil  the  pumpkin,  with  just  enough  water  to  keep 
it  from  burning,  for  about  30  minutes,  until  tender;  drain 


430  GOOD-LIVING. 

very  dry  and  mash  it  through  a  colander  or  coarse  sieve.  Or, 
it  may  first  be  steamed,  then  mashed.  Bring  the  milk  to  a 
boil ;  blend  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water ;  stir  it  into  the 
boiling  milk  ;  stir  and  boil  about  3  minutes,  until  thick.  Mix 
this  in  a  bowl  with  the  pumpkin,  while  all  are  hot.  Add  the 
spices,  sugar,  lemon-peel,  juice,  liquor,  etc.,  and  lastly  the  eggs 
mixed  smooth  with  a  very  little  cold  water.  Have  your  pie- 
dishes  ready  lined  with  very  thin  paste  ;  add  1  or  2  extra 
layers  to  the  edges.  Pour  in  the  mixture,  finish  with  an 
edge  neatly  notched  and  trimmed.  It  should  be  nearly  1 
inch  deep.  Bake  15  or  20  minutes.  Draw  to  the  mouth  of 
the  oven  ;  brush  the  edges  with  a  little  egg,  and  return  to 
the  oven  until  nicely  browned. 

N.  B. — The  above  receipt  serves  likewise  for  squash  pie. 

5  WEE  T-PO  TA  TO  CUS  TA  RD  PIE. 

3  good-sized  sweet  potatoes,  Butter,  size  of  a  walnut, 

1  cup  of  milk,  1  gill  of  soft  sugar, 

3  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  brandy, 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  orange,  3  eggs, 

I  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipt). 

Parboil  the  potatoes  30  minutes  ;  set  away.  When  cold, 
peel  and  grate.  Beat  together  butter,  sugar,  and  yolks  of 
eggs  until  very  light.  Add  the  potato  gradually,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Then  add  all  the  other  ingredients,  except  the 
powdered  sugar  and  whites  of  eggs.  Line  a  deep  pie-dish 
with  Good  Plain  Paste ;  build  up  the  edges  with  1  or  2  extra 
layers ;  notch  neatly ;  fill  with  the  mixture.  Bake  in  a 
moderately-quick  oven  30  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
to  a  foam  ;  add  the  sifted  powdered  sugar  by  degrees,  beat- 
ing all  the  while.  Then  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy.  When 
the  pie  is  baked,  heap  the  meringue  tastefully  on  the  top, 
sift  over  a  little  granulated  sugar,  and  set  in  a  very  quick 
oven  for  about  2  minutes,  until  slightly  browned.  Watch 
carefully  that  it  does  not  scorch  or  brown  unevenly. 

N.  B. — The  orange  may  be  omitted  if  preferred. 

There  should  be  about  1  quart  of  the  mashed  sweet  potatoes 
for  the  above. 


CRANBERRY  PIE.  43 1 

CURRANT  PIE. 

Line  a  pie-plate  with  Good  Plain  Paste,  or  Flaky  Pie-Crust 
(see  receipts).  Remove  the  stems  from  the  currants  and  lay 
a  layer  of  the  fruit  in  the  pie-dish.  Cover  with  a  layer  of 
sugar  nearly  as  thick  ;  another  of  currants  and  another  of 
sugar.  Dredge  I  level  tablespoonful  of  flour  over  the  top  ; 
cover  with  paste ;  trim  and  notch  the  edges ;  cut  an  X  in  the 
centre  of  the  cover  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for 
about  30  minutes. 

Cherry,  blackberry,  and  all  small-fruit  pies  may  be  made 
in  the  same  way,  with  more  or  less  sugar  according  to  the 
acidity  of  the  fruit.  In  baking  deep  pies,  put  an  inverted 
cup  in  the  middle.     (See  note  for  baking  fruit  pies.) 

APPLE  PIE. 

TOURTE   AUX    POMMES. 

Select  sound,  tart  apples.  Peel  and  core  without  breaking 
them.  Boil  some  whole  (allowing  4  for  each  pie)  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  a  little  lemon-juice,  a  strip  of  the  yellow  peel,  some 
sugar,  and  enough  water  to  cover  the  apples.  Cook  until 
they  can  be  pierced  easily.  Quarter  other  apples  ;  put  them 
into  another  stewpan  with  lemon-juice,  peel,  and  sugar  ;  and 
put  enough  water  to  cover.  Stew  these  to  a  jam  ;  add  a 
lump  of  butter  and  \  the  bulk  of  apples  in  peach  marmalade, 
and  rub  all  through  a  colander.  Line  the  pie-plates  with 
Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipt).  Put  on  the  bottom  a  layer 
of  the  apple  jam  ;  set  4  whole  apples  in  each  pie  ;  fill  the 
cavities  in  the  apples  and  the  spaces  between  with  peach 
marmalade.  Put  strips  of  good  crust  \  an  inch  wide  in  a 
lattice  across  the  top  between  the  apples,  and  trim  the  edge 
neatly  with  I  or  more  layers  of  paste,  neatly  notched.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  about  20  minutes.  Watch  that  it  does  not 
bake  unevenly.     Serve  with  cream.     Recommended. 

CRANBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  pie-dish  with  Good  Plain  Paste  ;  fill  it  with  raw 
cranberries  ;  add  \  a  cup  of  molasses  and  4  tablespoonfuls  of 


432  GOOD-LIVING. 

sugar.  Cover  with  crust.  Trim  the  edges  neatly.  Bake  in 
a  moderately-quick  oven  30  minutes.  Or,  use  Flaky  Pie- 
Crust  (see  receipt). 


ORANGE  PIE. 

1  teacup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

I  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn-starch,  i  teacup  of  boiling  water, 

]/z  orange-peel,  grated,  I  egg, 

1  orange,  juice,  Pie-crust  (see  receipt), 

2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs. 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Blend  the  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  water,  and  stir  it  into  the  boiling 
water,  which  is  ready  in  a  saucepan  on  the  fire.  Stir  for  I 
minute  or  2.  Add  to  this  the  butter,  sugar,  and  grated 
orange-peel  and  juice.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in 
i  egg,  which  has  been  mixed  smooth  with  a  few  drops  of 
cold  water.  Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  Flaky  Pie-Crust  (see 
receipt),  and  bake  it.  When  it  is  firmly  set,  and  slightly 
browned,  pour  in  the  custard.  Return  to  the  oven  for  10  or 
12  minutes,  or  until  the  egg  sets.  Beat  up  2  whites  of  eggs 
until  foamy  ;  add  gradually  2  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered 
sugar.  Beat  until  stiff  and  glossy.  When  the  pie  is  ready, 
arrange  this  over  the  top ;  sprinkle  a  little  granulated  sugar 
lightly  over  all,  and  set  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  2  minutes, 
until  slightly  browned. 


LEMON  PIE. 

Prepare  exactly  the  same  as  Orange  Pie,  adding  to  the 
orange  £  the  grated  peel  of  i  lemon,  and  all  the  juice.  An 
extra  egg  may  be  added  to  the  custard  with  advantage, 
using  in  that  case  the  2  yolks,  and  reserving  the  whites  for 
the  meringue.  If  the  latter  is  tastefully  arranged,  the  edge 
may  be  decorated  with  a  few  glaced  oranges,  which  will 
make  a  very  tempting  and  attractive  dessert. 


PEACH   TART.  433 

CRANBERRY  TART. 

I  quart  cranberries,  I  cup  of  water  (boiling), 

Sugar  to  taste,  Pie-crust  (see  receipt). 

Bring  the  cranberries  and  water  to  a  boil ;  cook  gently ; 
stir  frequently,  and  mash  the  berries.  When  they  are  done, 
which  will  be  in  about  i\  hours,  remove  them  from  the  fire, 
and  stir  in  sugar  to  taste.  Line  a  pie-dish  with  Flaky  Pie- 
Crust.  Pour  in  the  cranberries.  Put  strips  of  crust  in  a 
lattice  over  the  top  ;  arrange  the  edge  neatly,  and  bake  for 
about  1 5  minutes.  Brush  the  top  of  the  crust  with  yolk  of 
egg  and  milk,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  nicely  browned. 


PEACH  TART. 

TOURTE   AUX    PECHES. 

1  pound  of  sifted  flour,  ^  pound  of  fresh  butter, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  sifted  sugar, 

I  gill  of  ice-water,  Peaches. 

Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  and  sugar;  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  mix  well  with  a  knife.  Then  add  just  enough  ice- 
water  to  make  a  paste  that  will  roll  out.  It  must  be  a  firm 
paste,  rather  dry.  Be  careful  that  the  flour  is  dry,  and  the 
butter  cold.  Roll  out  the  paste  about  ^  of  an  inch  thick. 
Line  with  it  a  pie-dish,  at  least  1  inch  deep,  with  straight 
sides.  Trim  the  edges  neatly,  and  bake  the  empty  crust  in 
a  quick  oven  for  10  or  12  minutes.  Have  already  prepared 
the  peaches,  peeled,  halved,  and  stewed  until  transparent, 
with  sugar,  allowing  about  f  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound 
of  fruit.  When  the  tart  is  to  be  served,  fill  it  neatly  with  the 
peaches,  lapping  the  halves  one  over  another ;  pour  some  of 
the  syrup  over,  and  serve  with  a  pitcher  of  cream.  The 
peaches  should  not  be  allowed  to  stand  long  in  the  crust,  or 
its  crispness  will  be  destroyed.  The  crust  should  be  firm, 
brittle,  and  crisp,  not  flaky. 


434  GOOD-LIVING. 

S TRA  WBERR  Y  TART. 

TOURTE   AUX    FRAISES. 
Proceed  as  above,  using  strawberries  instead  of  peaches. 

PINE-APPLE  TART 

TOURTE   A   L' ANANAS. 

Proceed  as  above,  using  sliced  and  stewed  pine-apple  instead 
of  peaches. 

STRA  WBERR  Y  SHORT-CAKE. 

i  quart  of  sifted  flour,  I  teaspoon  of  salt, 

4  ounces  of  butter,  Sugar, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  Milk, 

2  quart  boxes  of  strawberries,  Cream. 

Stem  the  berries ;  slightly  mash  them,  and  sweeten  them 
to  taste.  Set  aside.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour,  having 
sifted  the  latter  with  the  baking-powder  ;  add  salt;  then  add 
sufficient  milk  to  make  a  dough  soft  enough  to  roll  out  easily. 
Mix  quickly  and  lightly.  Flour  the  board  and  pin.  Roll 
out  the  paste  f  of  an  inch  thick.  Divide  in  2  parts.  Lay  I 
layer  of  this  in  a  large  baking-pan.  Dust  the  top  with  flour 
and  lay  a  second  layer  of  the  paste  over  this.  Set  in  a  quick 
oven  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  When  done,  take  a  knife 
and  carefully  separate  the  2  layers  of  cake.  Set  I  on  a  plat- 
ter ;  spread  it  thickly  with  butter,  then  with  a  layer  of  ber- 
ries, well  sugared  ;  lay  on  this  the  second  layer  of  cake,  the 
rest  of  the  berries  and  sugar.  Stand  it  in  the  open  mouth 
of  the  oven  until  ready  to  send  to  table,  and  serve  with  a 
pitcher  of  rich  cream. 

RA  SPBERR  Y  SHOR  T-CA KM. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Strawberry  Short-Cake,  substituting 
raspberries. 

PEA  CH  SHOR  T-CA  KE. 

Proceed  as  for  Strawberry  Short-Cake,  substituting  peaches. 


BROWN  BETTY,    OR  PAN-DOWDY.  435 

CREAMED  APPLE-TART. 

I  pint  of  apples,  pared  and  cored,  2  ounces  of  brown  sugar, 

^2  teaspoon  of  grated  lemon-peel,  %  pint  of  boiled  custard, 

I  tablespoon  of  lemon-juice,  Puff  Paste  or  Flaky  Pie-Crust. 

Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  pastry ;  fill  it  with  the  apples, 
sliced  ;  add  sugar,  lemon-peel  and  juice,  and  2  or  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cold  water.  Cover  with  crust ;  trim  and  notch 
the  edges  neatly.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  30  to  45  minutes.  Be 
careful  not  to  brown  too  much.  When  the  tart  is  baked,  cut 
out  evenly  a  round  piece  from  the  centre  of  the  top ;  fill  in 
the  custard  level  with  the  top ;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over 
the  custard.  Serve  very  cold.  This  is  an  old-fashioned 
dish. 

BRO  WN  BE  TTY,   OR  PAN-DO  WD  Y. 

1  large  cup  of  grated  bread-crumbs,  Butter, 

6  or  8  sliced  apples,  Spices, 

^  cup  of  molasses,  }i  cup  of  cold  water, 
Sugar. 

Take  a  pudding-dish  ;  lay  on  the  bottom  a  layer  of  apples ; 
over  this  a  layer  of  stale,  grated  bread-crumbs,  just  thick 
enough  to  cover  the  apple ;  add  little  lumps  of  butter,  sugar, 
and  a  pinch  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  and  twice  as  big  a  pinch 
of  cinnamon.  Then  begin  again  with  the  apples,  crumbs, 
etc.,  and  continue  till  the  dish  is  filled,  ending  with  a  thick 
layer  of  bread-crumbs  and  lumps  of  butter.  Then,  with  the 
blade  of  a  knife,  make  a  space  on  4  sides,  between  the 
dish  and  the  pudding,  and  pour  in  |-  a  cupful  of  molasses 
and  same  quantity  of  cold  water.  This  is  the  allowance  for 
a  quart  dish.  Smooth  the  spaces  over.  Set  the  dish  in  a  pan 
into  which  pour  boiling  water  to  \  the  depth  of  the  pudding- 
dish.  Bake  for  f  of  an  hour,  or  until  a  broom-whisp  can  be 
easily  introduced  into  the  apples.  Be  generous  with  the 
butter,  and  bake  well,  and  this  pudding  will  be  a  success. 
Eat  hot  with  cream.     It  is  also  good  eaten  cold. 

Raisins  and  citron  added  to  each  layer  make  this  richer, 
but  less  digestible. 


436  GOOD-LIVING. 

SPICED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

3  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  3  cups  of  chopped  apples, 

1  cup  of  sugar,  "  A  "  or  "  C  ",  1  pint  of  milk, 

)£  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  %  pound  of  citron  (or  not), 

2  tablespoons  of  brandy,  1  tablespoon  of  ground  cinnamon, 
^  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  mace, 

3  eggs,  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  apart. 

Scald  the  milk.  Stir  in  the  crumbs  and  scald  for  1  or  2 
minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Mix  together  all  the  in- 
gredients, adding  lastly  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Butter  a  pudding-dish ;  fill  with  the  batter  and  bake  for 
about  40  minutes  in  a  moderately-quick  oven.  Watch  that 
it  does  not  brown  unevenly.  Serve  with  Custard  Sauce  or 
other  (see  receipts  for  pudding  sauces). 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING,  BAKED. 

}£  pound  of  butter,  I  pound  of  brown  sugar, 

K      "       "  flour-  4  eggs. 

1  quart  of  berries,  not  too  ripe. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  yolks  of  eggs. 
Beat  until  very  light.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  ; 
add  them  and  the  flour  alternately.  Have  ready  a  buttered 
pudding-dish.  Stir  the  blackberries  quickly  and  lightly  into 
the  batter.  Fill  the  dish  f-full  of  the  mixture.  Bake  for  1 
hour  and  15  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderately-quick  oven. 
Watch  that  it  does  not  scorch  or  bake  unevenly.  Serve  hot 
with  Hard  or  Wine  Sauce.     Excellent. 

BLACKBERRY  PUDDING,  BOILED. 

\%  pounds  of  sifted  flour,  1  quart  of  blackberries, 

2  gills  of  chopped  suet,  2  gills  of  molasses, 

2     "     "  milk,  2     "     "  brown  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  of  boiling  water. 

Mix  together  the  suet,  milk,  molasses,  and  sugar.  Add  £ 
the  flour,  then  the  soda  ;  mix  well ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the 
flour  and  the  fruit.     Fill  a  greased  mould  f-full  of  the  mix- 


CABINET  PUDDING.  437 

ture.  Leave  plenty  of  room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Have 
ready  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  cover  the  mould  tightly  and 
put  it  into  the  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Boil  without  inter- 
ruption for  3  hours  and  30  minutes  ;  or  steam  over  the  water 
4  hours.  For  boiling,  cover  the  mould  tightly  ;  it  may  be 
steamed  in  a  bowl.  Serve  with  a  Pudding  Sauce  (see  re- 
ceipts). If  any  is  left  cold  next  day,  it  may  be  sliced  and 
fried  in  butter. 

HUCKLEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Proceed  as  directed  for  Blackberry  Pudding,  Boiled,  sub- 
stituting huckleberries. 

DRIED-PEACH  PUDDING,  BOILED. 

^  pound  of  sifted  flour,  I  pint  of  dried  peaches, 

3  gills  of  beef  suet,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Cold  water. 

Chop  the  peaches  and  suet.  Mix  them  with  the  flour  and 
salt.  Add  just  enough  water  to  keep  the  ingredients  to- 
gether in  as  stiff  a  batter  as  can  be  easily  stirred — almost  as 
stiff  as  dough.  Tie  it  in  a  floured  pudding-bag,  leaving 
plenty  of  room  to  swell.  Have  ready  boiling  a  large  pot  of 
water,  and  drop  the  pudding  into  it.  Boil  without  intermis- 
sion about  4  hours.  Or,  tie  in  the  bag  and  steam  for  the 
same  length  of  time.  Serve  hot  with  Wine  or  Lemon  Sauce 
(see  receipts). 

CABINET  PUDDING. 

3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

I  pint  of  milk,  Pinch  of  salt, 

Raisins,  Citron, 

Cake,  1  ounce  of  candied  peaches  or  apricots. 

Butter  a  quart  mould  well.  Line  the  bottom  with  raisins, 
stoned,  and  citron  and  apricots  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Cover 
with  slices  of  stale  cake ;  add  more  raisins,  citron,  and  apri- 
cots, alternating  with  cake,  until  within  i£  inches  of  the  top. 


438  GOOD-LIVING. 

Scald  the  milk.  Beat  to  a  cream  the  sugar  and  eggs.  Pour 
the  boiling  milk  carefully  upon  the  eggs,  stirring  briskly. 
Add  vanilla  or  rum  to  taste.  Pour  this  into  the  mould  over 
the  cake.  Cover.  Set  the  mould  in  a  pan  ;  pour  cold  water 
into  the  pan  to  \  the  height  of  the  mould.  Put  the  pan  on 
the  range  until  the  water  comes  to  a  boil ;  then  put  the  pan 
into  the  oven  and  bake  the  pudding  I  hour.  When  done, 
turn  the  pudding  out  of  the  mould  and  serve  with  Wine 
Sauce  (see  receipt). 

JIM  CROW, 
Put  New  Orleans  molasses  in  a  frying-pan  and  let  it  boil 
until  it  thickens — about  6  minutes.  It  should  be  \  an  inch 
deep.  Have  ready  buttered  slices  of  bread,  without  crusts  ; 
cut  them  in  square  or  oblong  pieces.  Lay  them  in  the  boil- 
ing molasses  until  crisp.     Drain  and  serve  hot. 

BE  A  ULIEU  PUDDING. 

1  lemon,  3  ounces  of  sugar, 

2  ounces  of  Candied  Lemon-Peel,  6      "        "  butter, 

6  bitter  almonds,  shredded,  6      "        "  sifted  flour, 

io  sweet       "  4  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  ;  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  beat 
very  light.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Add  to  the 
sugar  the  lemon-peel  cut  fine  (see  receipt),  the  almonds,  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  the  lemon.  Lastly  add  the  whites 
alternately  with  the  flour.  Mix  carefully.  Have  ready 
buttered  gem-pans ;  fill  these  f-full  with  the  mixture,  and 
bake  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderately-quick  oven.  When 
firm,  serve  turned  out  on  a  cut  paper.  Serve  at  the  same 
time,  in  a  sauce-boat,  a  Brandy  Sauce  or  other  (see  receipts). 

ROYAL  CO  BURG  PUDDING. 

1  pint  of  new  milk,  6  ounces  of  flour, 

6  ounces  of  sugar,  6      "        "butter, 

6      "        "  currants,  6  eggs, 

Grated  nutmeg,  Brandy  to  taste. 

Mix  together  the  flour  and  cold  milk  until  smooth  ;  stir  in 
the  remaining  ingredients  gradually,  first  creaming  the  butter 
and  sugar  together.     When  well  mixed  and  smooth,  fill  4 


RICE  PUDDING  NO.  I.  439 

small  pudding-moulds  or  bowls  |--full.  Bake  45  minutes. 
Turn  the  puddings  out  on  a  cut  paper  and  serve  with  Wine 
or  Brandy  Sauce  (see  receipts)  in  a  sauce-boat. 

RICE  CREAM  PUDDING. 

RIZ   A   LA   CREME. 

1  cup  of  freshly-boiled  rice,  hot,  Flavoring  to  taste, 
^  "     "  sugar,  3  cups  of  milk, 

2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  corn-starch, 

2  eggs. 

Blend  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk  ;  then 
add  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  it.  Stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  and 
sugar  beaten  together.  Set  this  over  the  fire  in  a  farina- 
kettle  ;  stir,  and,  when  hot,  add  the  hot  rice.  Stir  it  care- 
fully over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken  like  boiled 
custard  ;  then  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  add  flavoring, 
vanilla  and  lemon,  to  taste.  Pour  it  into  a  pudding-dish  and 
set  it  in  a  moderately-hot  oven.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  to  a  foam,  then  add  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar 
and  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy.  When  the  pudding  is  nicely 
browned  (about  25  to  30  minutes),  spread  the  meringue  over 
the  top,  sprinkle  lightly  with  granulated  sugar,  and  return 
to  the  oven  to  brown  slightly.  The  oven  should  be  very  hot 
for  the  meringue,  or  it  will  fall.  If  it  is  not  convenient  to 
heat  up  the  oven  to  the  degree  required  for  this,  heat  the 
kitchen  shovel  red-hot  and  hold  it  over  the  top  of  the 
meringue  until  sufficiently  browned.     Serve  very  cold. 

N.  B. — If  the  receipt  is  carefully  followed  the  pudding 
will  be  very  creamy. 

RICE  PUDDING  NO.  I. 

RIZ  AU  LAIT. 

3  tablespoons  of  rice,  well  washed,  3  pints  of  milk, 

3  "  "  "C"  sugar,  Small  lump  of  butter, 

Stick  of  cinnamon,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Three  quarters  of  an  hour,  oven  door  closed. 
Two  and  one  quarter  hours,  oven  door  open. 
Stir  every  time  a  top  forms,  until  about  30  minutes  before 
it  is  to  be  done. 


440  GOOD-LIVING. 

RICE  PUDDING  NO.  II. 

RIZ  AU  LAIT. 

I  cup  of  rice,  well  washed,  2  quarts  of  milk, 

8  tablespoons  of  "  C  "  sugar,  Butter, 

Pinch  of  salt,  Vanilla  to  taste. 

To  make  the  rice  pudding  creamy,  open  the  oven  door  at 
intervals  and  stir  down  the  top  that  forms  until  within  about 
30  minutes  of  the  time  when  it  is  to  be  done  ;  then  let  it 
brown  nicely.  Remove  it  from  the  oven  before  it  gets  firm, 
as,  in  cooling,  it  becomes  very  much  firmer.  The  time  is 
about  3  hours  as  in  above  receipt,  but  must  be  governed  by 
the  quality  of  the  oven,  which  should  be  slow. 

RICE  AND  PEACH  PUDDING. 

Boil  some  rice  (see  receipt)  ;  drain  ;  add  just  enough  boil- 
ing milk  to  cover,  and  let  it  stew  until  the  milk  is  absorbed  ; 
or  "boil  the  rice  in  milk.  It  should  be  well  moistened  with 
milk  when  prepared  as  follows  :  Stir  into  it  sugar  to  taste, 
and  I  ounce  of  butter.  When  hot,  stir  in  quickly  2  beaten 
eggs-  Butter  a  plain  pudding-mould  ;  cover  the  bottom 
with  bread-crumbs.  Put  in  a  layer  of  rice  \  an  inch  deep  ; 
then  a  layer  of  peaches,  peeled  and  stoned  ;  sift  with  sugar  ; 
then  begin  with  another  layer  of  rice  ;  cover  with  another  of 
peaches  and  sugar,  and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  filled,  finish- 
ing with  a  layer  of  rice.  Bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven 
30  to  40  minutes,  if  you  use  raw  peaches  ;  1 5  or  20,  if  canned; 
or  preserved.  When  done,  turn  the  pudding  carefully  out 
of  the  mould  on  a  cut  paper,  and  serve  with  Maryland 
Sauce  (see  receipt). 

BAKED  ROLY-POLY. 

Make  a  rich  Biscuit  dough  (see  receipt).  Roll  out  about 
\  an  inch  thick ;  spread  thickly  with  jam  or  stewed  fruit. 
Roll  in  a  scroll ;  lay  it  in  a  long,  tin  loaf-pan  with  the  lap 
uppermost,  and  bake  about  30  minutes  in  a  moderately-quick 
oven.     Serve  with  Hard  Sauce. 


SWEET-POTATO  PUDDING.  44I 

BOILED  ROLY-POLY. 

Prepare  as  above.  Tie  in  a  well-floured  cloth  and  boil 
without  intermission  for  about  3  hours.  Or,  it  may  be 
steamed.     Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  or  other  (see  receipts). 

HUCKLEBERRY  ROLY-POLY. 

Prepare  exactly  as  for  Boiled  Roly-Poly,  laying  a  thick 
layer  of  huckleberries,  covered  with  sugar,  on  the  biscuit- 
crust  ;  roll  and  finish  as  directed.  Serve  with  Hard  Sauce 
(see  receipt). 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

1  j£  cups  of  sifted  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar, 

2  eggs,  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 

apart,  1  gill  of  milk, 

1  teaspoon  of  Royal  baking-powder,  or  1  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  yz  of  soda. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  ;  add  yolks  and  milk ; 
sift  the  baking-powder  with  the  flour  ;  add  this,  then  lastly 
the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  round,  greased 
tin  for  30  to  45  minutes  in  a  moderately-quick  oven.  Test 
with  a  broom-whisp.  If  dry,  the  pudding  is  done.  Turn  it 
out  of  the  mould  on  a  cut  paper,  and  serve  with  Wine  or 
Brandy  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

PRUNE  PUDDING. 

Proceed  as  for  Amherst  Pudding  (see  receipt),  substituting 
£  pound  of  prunes  and  \  pound  of  currants  well  cleaned, 
for  the  raisins.     Recommended. 

5-  WEE  T-PO  TA  TO  PUDDING. 

%,  pound  of  sweet  potatoes,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  8  ounces  of  sugar, 

Juice         "         "        "     1  orange,  6       "        "  butter, 

%  teaspoon  mace,  2   tablespoons  of  brandy 

I  even  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  8  eggs, 
1  gill  of  sherry. 

Peel  the  potatoes  and  grate  them  raw.  Cream  together 
butter  and  sugar.     Beat  the  eggs  all  together  until  extremely 


442  GOOD-LIVING. 

light ;  add  them  to  the  butter  and  sugar,  with  all  the  in- 
gredients. Beat  well.  Butter  a  pudding-dish  ;  fill  it  not 
more  than  f-full  of  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderately- 
quick  oven  for  45  minutes.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  a  sauce 
(see  receipts). 

MINUTE   PUDDING. 

1  quart  of  milk,  Butter,  size  of  a  hickory-nut, 

1  pint  of  flour,  or  about,  Pinch  of  salt, 

2  eggs. 

Beat  the  eggs  well  together  ;  mix  with  these  the  flour  and 
enough  cold  milk  to  make  a  smooth  batter.  Put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  milk  in  a  saucepan  with  the  butter  and  salt. 
When  it  boils,  stir  in  the  flour  and  eggs  ;  stir  and  boil  for  5 
minutes  or  more,  until  of  the  consistency  of  corn-mush. 
Serve  hot  with  sweetened  milk.  Or,  pour  in  a  dish,  set  away, 
and  serve  icy  cold,  with  Custard  Sauce  flavored  with  vanilla 
(see  receipt).     Excellent  for  children's  dinner. 

BAKED  BA  TTER  PUDDING. 

16  tablespoons  of  sifted  flour,  ^  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Stir  into  the  milk  the  yolks  of  eggs  well  beaten  ;  stir  these 
into  the  salt  and  flour.  Then  beat  in  the  whites  of  eggs. 
When  perfectly  free  from  lumps,  bake  in  large  patty-pans,  or 
in  1  shallow  pudding-dish.  The  dish  should  be  well  heated 
and  buttered.  Bake  about  25  minutes  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
It  should  rise  very  high,  and  form  a  good,  firm  crust.  The 
length  of  time  for  baking  depends  very  much  upon  the  size 
and  depth  of  the  dish,  as  well  as  upon  the  quality  of  the 
oven  ;  but  observe,  that  the  top  must  be  a  firm  crust,  or  it 
will  fall  too  quickly.  Serve  immediately  with  Hard  Sauce  or 
with  Strawberry  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

CHERRY  PUDDING. 

2  eggs,  Flour  for  stiff  batter, 

3  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk, 

Cherries. 
Mix  together  all  the  ingredients  to  a  stiff  batter,  stirring 
the  milk  into  the  flour ;  then  stir  in  as  many  cherries  as  the 


POTATO  PUDDING.  443 

batter  will  hold.  Boil  or  steam  2  hours  or  more  in  a  greased 
mould,  filling  the  mould  not  more  than  |-full,  and  cover- 
ing ;  or  boil  in  a  floured  pudding-bag,  leaving  plenty  of  room 
to  swell.  The  pudding  must  boil  without  intermission  or  it 
will  be  heavy.  Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  or  other  (see  receipts). 
Any  small  fruit  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

COCOA-NUT  PUDDING  NO  I. 

i  cocoa-nut,  grated,  Flaky  Pie-Crust, 

Milk  of  the  cocoa-nut,  I  quart  of  milk, 

5  eggs,  i  cup  of  sugar, 

I  ounce  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  rose-water, 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Boil  the  milk  and  pour  it  upon  the  grated  cocoa-nut  and 
its  milk.  Beat  the  sugar  with  the  eggs.  Add  the  above  to 
them  ;  then  add  salt  and  flavorings.  Stir.  Bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish  with  an  edge  of  pie-crust,  20  to  30  minutes.  You 
may  substitute  cream  for  the  milk,  and  add  3  more  eggs, 
if  preferred. 

COCOA-NUT  PUDDING  NO.  II. 

1  pound  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  8  ounces  of  butter, 

3  stale  rusk  or  small  sponge-cakes,  6  eggs, 

8  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  1  gill  of  white  wine. 

Grate  the  cocoa-nut,  which  you  have  peeled  and  thrown  into 
cold  water.  Grate  or  roll  the  rusk  or  cakes.  Beat  to  a  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  the  wine.  Beat  the  eggs,  whites 
and  yolks  together,  until  very  light,  and  stir  them  gradually 
into  the  butter  and  sugar  in  turn  with  the  rusk  and  cocoa- 
nut.  Having  beaten  the  whole  together  very  hard,  put  it 
into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick 
oven  30  minutes.     Delicious. 

POTATO  PUDDING. 

8  ounces  of  potatoes,  4  ounces  of  butter, 

2  stale  sponge-cakes,  grated,  5  eggs, 

8  ounces  of  sugar,  Rose-water  and  brandy,  1  gill,  mixed, 

Pinch  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  Grated  orange-peel, 

Grated  nutmeg,  %  gill  sherry. 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes.  Mash  through  a  colander. 
While  hot,  mix  in  the  butter,  and  beat  light.     Beat  the  eggs 


444  GOOD-LIVING. 

together,  and  add  them  to  the  potatoes  with  the  sugar  and 
flavorings  to  taste.  Put  in  a  pudding-dish  with  or  without  an 
edge  of  pastry.  Bake  for  about  30  minutes  in  a  moderately- 
quick  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

^  cup  of  powdered  cracker,  %"  cup  of  butter, 

Pinch  of  salt,  Whites  of  3  eggs, 

3  ounces  of  chocolate,  grated,  3  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  quart  of  milk,  %  cup  of  sugar, 

I  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  3  whites  of  eggs  for  meringue. 

Soak  the  cracker-crumbs  in  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then 
squeeze  them  out  thoroughly.  Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a 
little  of  the  milk.  Add  the  other  ingredients.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  dish  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 
When  cold,  put  the  meringue  over  the  top  and  set  in  a  very 
hot  oven  about  2  minutes,  or  just  long  enough  to  brown  the 
egg  very  slightly. 

Note. — To  make  the  meringue,  beat  the  whites  to  a  foam  ; 
then  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy. 

AMBER  PUDDING. 

1  pound  of  sugar,  3  ounces  of  butter, 

2  lemons,  juice  and  grated  rind,  9  eggs. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  then  add  the  yolks  and 
lemon.  Beat  very  light.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  mix  into  the  batter  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible. 
Have  ready  deep  pie-plates  lined  with  Flaky  Pie-Crust  or 
with  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipts)  ;  pour  in  the  mixture, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  about  30  minutes. 
Watch  carefully  that  they  do  not  scorch  or  bake  unevenly. 
To  be  eaten  cold. 

INDIAN  PUDDING. 

I  quart  of  milk,  I  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger, 

7  tablespoons  of  sifted  corn-meal,  2  gills  of  molasses, 

i  teaspoon  of  salt. 

Scald  the  milk.  Remove  from  the  fire.  Stir  it  into  the 
corn-meal ;   stir   over   the   fire    10   minutes,  then    add    salt, 


BAKED   ORANGE  PUDDING  NO.  II.  445 

molasses,  and  ginger.     Mix  well.     Pour  into  a  buttered  pud- 
ding-dish.    Bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  45  to  60  minutes. 

OLD-FASHIONED  INDIAN  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  Indian  meal,  4  ounces  of  butter,  melted, 

4  eggs>  beaten  light,  Sugar  to  taste, 

1  tablespoon  of  molasses,  A  few  currants,  well  cleaned, 

Peach-  or  rose-water,  Cinnamon  or  orange-peel. 

Mix  the  meal  smooth  in  cold  water ;  add  the  other  ingredi- 
ents. Flavor  to  taste.  Butter  2  fire-proof  pudding-dishes 
(not  deep).  Pour  in  the  mixture  and  bake  1  hour  or  more. 
This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  2  puddings. 

BAKED  ORANGE  PUDDING  NO.  I. 

2  large  oranges,  8  ounces  of  butter, 

8  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  1  gill  of  mixed  wine  and  brandy, 

1  stale  small  sponge-cake,  6  eggs. 

Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  of  the  oranges, 
removing  the  pips.  Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  ; 
add  the  wine.  Beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  the  eggs  to- 
gether very  light ;  add  them  gradually  to  the  mixture. 
Have  ready  a  buttered  pudding-dish  edged  with  Flaky  Pie- 
Crust  or  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipts)  neatly  notched. 
The  cake  may  be  rolled  and  added  to  the  mixture,  but  it 
will  make  it  a  little  less  rich.  Fill  the  pudding-dish  with  the 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  30  minutes. 
When  cool,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  the  top  and  serve. 

BAKED  LEMON  PUDDING  NO.  I. 

Proceed  exactly  as  above,  using  lemons  instead  of  oranges. 
Delicious. 

BAKED  ORANGE  PUDDING  NO.  II. 

8  ounces  of  sugar,  4  ounces  of  butter, 

2  oranges,  6  eggs. 

Grate  the  rind  of  the  oranges  and  squeeze  the  juice. 
Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  ;  beat  in  the  yolks  of  eggs 


446  GOOD-LIVING. 

one  at  a  time  ;  then  add  the  orange  rind  and  juice.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready  a  deep  pie-dish 
lined  with  Flaky  Pie-Crust  or  Good  Plain  Paste  (see  receipts). 
Beat  the  whites  into  the  batter  with  a  few  long,  slow  strokes. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  the  pie-dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderately- 
quick  oven  for  20  to  25  minutes. 

BAKED  LEMON  PUDDING  NO.  II. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Baked  Orange  Pudding  No.  II., 
using  lemons  instead  of  oranges. 

BOILED  ORANGE  PUDDING. 

4  ounces  of  macaroons,  i  pint  of  milk, 

1  gill  of  sugar,  4  eggs, 

Grated  rind  of  1  orange,  Juice  of  2  oranges. 

Soak  the  macaroons  in  the  milk  until  soft.  Beat  the  eggs 
and  sugar  together  until  well  mixed,  then  add  to  them  the 
milk,  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  the  orange-juice  and  rind. 
Butter  a  pudding-mould  ;  fill  f -full  of  the  mixture ;  cover 
closely  and  put  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water.  Boil  without 
interruption  for  1  hour.  Serve  with  Orange  or  other  Pud- 
ding Sauce  (see  receipts). 

BOILED  LEMON  PUDDING. 

Proceed  as  for  Boiled  Orange  Pudding,  substituting  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  I  lemon.  Serve  with  Lemon  Sauce  (see 
receipt). 

PLUM-PUDDING. 

2  eggs,  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  apart,       1  cup  of  flour, 
I  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  1    "     "  milk, 

1  "        "        "       allspice,  1    "    "  suet, 

2  cups  of  bread-crumbs,  1  gill  of  citron,  sliced, 
1  cup  of  dark  N.  O.  molasses,  1  cup  of  stoned  raisins, 

1    "     "  cleaned  currants,  y2  teaspoon  Royal  baking-powder. 

Clean  the  Currants  (see  receipt).  Wet  the  crumbs  in  the 
milk,  then  add  yolks  and  all  other  ingredients,  straining  the 


AMHERST  PUDDING.  447 

molasses,  and  sifting  together  flour  and  baking-powder. 
Add  beaten  whites  last.  Fill  a  well-greased  pudding-mould 
(or  tin  kettle  with. a  cover)  not  more  than  f-full.  Fit  the 
cover  on  tightly,  and  boil  in  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water 
without  intermission  for  3  hours  and  30  minutes.  When 
ready  to  serve,  put  a  sprig  of  holly  in  the  top  ;  pour  a  little 
brandy  over  the  pudding,  and,  at  the  moment  of  serving,  set 
fire  to  it.     Serve  with  Wine  or  Brandy  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

ENGLISH  PLUM-PUDDING. 

I  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  1  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine, 

3^    "       "  stale  bread-crumbs,  4  ounces  of  brown  sugar, 

1  lemon,  grated  rind,  4       "       "  sifted  flour, 

1  pound  of  currants,  well-cleaned,  )4  nutmeg,  grated, 

2  gills  of  brandy,  5  eggs, 

8  ounces  minced  candied  orange-peel. 

Clean  the  currants  (see  receipt) ;  stone  the  raisins.  Mix 
all  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Beat  together  eggs  and 
brandy ;  pour  them  over  the  rest  and  mix  thoroughly.  Pack 
in  greased  moulds  or  kettles ;  cover.  Put  into  a  pot  of  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  without  intermission  6  hours.  This  will 
make  about  6  pounds.  The  day  it  is  required  for  use,  boil 
again  for  6  hours.  When  serving,  pour  brandy  over  the 
pudding,  set  fire  to  it,  and  serve  it  while  blazing.  Serve  with 
Brandy  Sauce. 

AMHERST  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  molasses,  strained, 

1    "     "  milk,  1  gill  of  citron,  sliced, 

1    "     "  raisins,  stoned  and  chopped,    1     "    "  currants,  well  cleaned, 
3^  cups  of  sifted  flour,  Spices  to  taste, 

I  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking-soda,       1  saltspoon  of  salt, 
1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking-powder. 

Mix  all  together,  adding  last  the  flour  sifted  with  the 
baking-powder,  and  the  soda  dissolved  in  a  few  drops  of 
boiling  water.  Beat  until  very  light.  Grease  a  mould  or  tin 
kettle  ;  fill  not  more  than  f-full  of  the  mixture.  Fasten  the 
cover  on  firmly.     Have  ready  a  large  pot  of  boiling  water ; 


448  GOOD-LIVING. 

place  the  mould  in  this  and  boil  without  intermission  for 
4  hours  and  30  minutes  to  5  hours.  If  the  boiling  is  checked, 
the  pudding  will  be  heavy.  Or,  tie  in  a  well-floured  bag, 
leaving  plenty  of  room  to  swell,  and  boil  about  4  hours. 
Serve  with  Hard  Sauce.  The  pudding  may  be  also  eaten 
with  molasses.  If  any  is  left  cold  the  next  day,  it  may  be 
sliced,  fried  brown  in  hot  butter,  and  eaten  with  molasses  for 
luncheon.     Recommended. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

1  small  cup  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  i  cup  of  molasses, 

I  cup  of  chopped  and  seeded  raisins,  I    "     "  sour  milk, 

I  teaspoon  of  soda,  Ground  spices  to  taste, 

Flour  for  thick  batter,  about  2>%  cups. 

Mix.  Add  last  the  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  few 
drops  of  boiling  water ;  beat  well.  Tie  in  a  floured  bag, 
leaving  room  to  swell  to  double  its  bulk.  Put  into  a  large 
pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  without  intermission  for  3  hours 
and  30  minutes.  Serve  with  Hard  Sauce  (see  receipt)  or 
with  molasses. 

SPICE  PUDDING. 

I  cup  of  molasses,  1  gill  of  melted  butter, 

I    "    "  milk,  1     "    "  wine, 

3  j£  cups  of  sifted  flour,  Pinch  of  salt, 

I  teaspoon  of  baking-soda,  I  teaspoon  of  baking-powder, 

I         "         "  ground  cinnamon,  I  nutmeg,  grated, 

Yi  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  1  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  ;  stir 
it  into  the  molasses  ;  add  the  melted  butter,  then  the  milk 
and  flour  sifted  with  the  baking-powder.  Add  salt,  spices, 
and  wine.  Beat  until  smooth.  Grease  a  pudding-mould  or 
tin-kettle  with  a  cover.  Fill  f-full.  Cover.  Set  in  a  pot  of 
boiling  water  and  boil  without  intermission  for  about  4 
hours.  Or,  tie  in  a  floured  cloth,  leaving  room  to  swell,  and 
boil  about  3  hours.     Serve  with  Lemon  Sauce  (see  receipt). 


DATE  PUDDING.  449 

OLD-FASHIONED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

4  large  tart  apples,  4  ounces  of  stale  bread-crumbs, 

1  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  y^  nutmeg,  grated, 

1  saltspoon  of  salt,  4  eggs. 

Pare  and  chop  the  apples  fine ;  mix  with  the  crumbs. 
Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  apart  until  very  light.  Add  to 
the  crumbs,  yolks,  salt,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg  ;  then  stir  in 
the  whites  carefully.  Mix.  Boil  in  a  well-greased  mould,  cov- 
ered, for  3  hours.  Serve  hot,  with  Custard,  Wine,  or  Lemon 
Sauce  (see  receipts).  For  detailed  directions  for  boiling,  see 
receipt  for  Amherst  Pudding. 

BOILED  APPLE-DUMPLINGS. 

I  quart  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  large  tablespoon  of  butter  or  lard,  2  gills  of  milk, 

2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  Apples. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Have  ready  a  pot  with  about 
3  inches  of  water.  Or,  if  you  prefer  to  steam  them,  have 
the  pot  f-full  of  boiling  water ;  place  the  steamer  over  it. 
Now  mix  together  the  flour  and  butter  or  lard,  then  add 
salt  and  baking-powder.  Moisten  with  milk  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  which  can  be  easily  rolled  out  without 
sticking.  Roll  out  about  £  an  inch  thick;  cut  out  the 
dumplings  the  size  of  a  breakfast  plate.  Put  1  apple  in 
the  centre  of  each  piece  of  dough  ;  fill  the  space  of  the  core 
with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  and  draw  the  dough 
neatly  over  the  apple.  To  boil  them,  tie  each  in  a  floured 
cloth,  leaving  plenty  of  room  to  swell ;  put  them  into  the 
kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  30  minutes  without  ceasing. 
Or,  set  on  a  tin  plate  over  the  steamer  and  cook  40  minutes. 
Serve  hot  with  Hard  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

FIG   PUDDING. 
Proceed  as  for  Amherst  Pudding,  substituting  1  pound  of 
figs  cut  in  pieces  for  the  raisins  and  currants. 

DATE  PUDDING. 
Proceed  as  for  Amherst  Pudding,  substituting  1  pound  of 
dates,  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces,  for  the  raisins  and  currants. 


mvi  Ij^^^^l  ^^S^rU^ 

TjM^M 

llwm 

^^v^M 

PUDDING    SAUCES. 
WHIPPED-CREAM  SAUCE. 

I  pint  of  Whipped  Cream  (see  receipt),  Whites  of  2  or  3  eggs, 

Powdered  sugar,  Vanilla,  wine  or  rum. 

Flavor  the  whipped  cream  with  vanilla,  rum,  or  wine. 
Sweeten  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth  ;  then  beat  all  together.  Serve 
with  Plum-Pudding  Glace,  Blanc-Mange,  etc.,  etc, 

GOLDEN  SAUCE. 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  Lemon-juice, 

1  whole  egg,  1  gill  of  sugar, 

1  gill  of  sherry. 

Beat  the  eggs  with  a  scant  gill  of  soft  sugar  in  a  small 
saucepan  until  creamy.  Then  set  the  saucepan  in  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water  on  the  fire.  Beat  the  eggs  quickly  and 
steadily  while  you  pour  in  very  gradually  1  gill  of  sherry. 
Stir  until  the  sauce  thickens  to  a  cream ;  then  remove  from 
the  fire ;  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon-juice  strained,  and  serve 
hot. 

VELVET  SAUCE. 

yl  cup  of  butter,  1  gill  of  boiling  water, 

1  heaping  teaspoon  of  corn-starch,  \yd  cups  of  powdered  sugar. 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream.     Add  the  sugar  and  con- 
tinue to  beat  for  2  or  3  minutes.     When  the  water  boils, 
stir  in  the  corn-starch  blended  with  a  very  little  cold  water. 
Stir  and  boil  2  or  3  minutes,  until  transparent.     Just  before 
450 


CUSTARD  SAUCE.  45 1 

serving,  stir  this  into  the  butter  and  sugar,  and  flavor  with 
brandy,  rum,  maraschino,  lemon-juice,  or  extract  of  vanilla. 
Serve  hot. 

SILVER  SAUCE. 

2,}i  cups  of  water,  Flavoring, 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  i  cup  of  sugar, 

I  tablespoon  of  corn-starch. 

When  the  water  boils,  stir  in  corn-starch  blended  with  a 
very  little  cold  water.  Add  the  sugar  and  stir  constantly 
until  the  corn-starch  has  boiled  about  3  minutes,  until  trans- 
parent. If  cinnamon-stick  or  lemon-peel  are  used  for  flavor- 
ing, they  should  boil  in  the  sauce  at  the  same  time.  Remove 
the  saucepan  ;  add  butter  and  flavoring  to  taste.  Strain  out 
the  peel  or  cinnamon-stick,  and  serve  hot. 

STRA  WBERR  Y  SA  UCE. 

1  gill  of  butter,  2  gills  of  sugar  (1  cup), 

1  cup  of  ripe  strawberries,  mashed,  1  white  of  egg. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar ;  add  the  white  of  egg 
beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth  and  the  strawberries  thoroughly 
mashed.     When  well  beaten  together,  serve  cold. 

CARAMEL  SAUCE. 

6  ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  2  cloves, 

1  stick  of  cinnamon,  2  gills  of  boiling  water, 

Lemon-peel. 

Put  these  together  on  the  fire  and  boil  10  minutes.  To 
make  the  caramel,  put  2  ounces  of  granulated  sugar  dissolved 
in  1  tablespoonful  of  boiling  water  on  a  moderate  fire  and 
boil  10  minutes,  stirring  until  it  becomes  light  brown.  Strain 
the  sauce  over  the  caramel ;  boil  up  once.  Remove  from 
the  fire ;  add  3  tablespoonf uls  of  sherry,  and  serve  hot. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

1  pint  of  new  milk,  1  gill  of  sugar, 

3  eggs>  Flavoring. 

Boil  the  milk.  Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  in  a  bowl  to 
a  cream.     Pour  the  boiling  milk  very  slowly  upon  the  eggs, 


452  GOOD-LIVING. 

stirring  very  briskly.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  strain  it 
back  into  the  saucepan  ;  set  this  over  boiling  water  on  the 
fire  and  stir  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  boil  or  it  will  curdle. 
Flavor  to  taste.     Serve  very  cold. 

BRANDY  SAUCE. 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  I  gill  of  brandy, 

I  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  I    "    "  boiling  water, 

Whites  of  2  eggs. 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  until  very  light. 
Add  the  whites  I  by  I,  beating  steadily.  When  required, 
add  the  brandy  and  boiling  water ;  set  the  bowl  in  boiling 
water  {bain  marie)  over  the  fire  and  stir  until  creamy.  Serve 
hot. 

HARD  SA  UCE. 

X  cup  of  butter,  Whites  of  2  eggs, 

I  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  I  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 

I  tablespoon  of  brandy  or  rum. 

Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream.  Add  the  whites  of 
eggs  i  by  I,  and  beat  until  very  light,  then  add  by  degrees 
the  flavorings,  beating  steadily.  Arrange  neatly  in  a  small 
mound  ;  sprinkle  with  grated  nutmeg,  and  set  in  the  ice-box 
to  harden. 

PLAIN  HARD  SA  UCE. 

May  be  made  with  butter  and  sugar  alone,  in  above  pro- 
portions, using  "A"  sugar  in  preference.  Add  I  tablespoon- 
ful  of  rum  or  lemon-juice  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Set  away  on 
the  ice  to  harden. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 


I  tablespoon  of  corn-starch, 

i  gill  of  sugar 

I          "          "  butter, 

Iegg. 

I  pint  of  boiling  water, 

I  lemon. 

Beat  together  in  a  bowl  the  corn-starch,  egg,  butter,  and 
sugar.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  pour  slowly  over  them  the 
boiling  water,  stirring  steadily ;  set  on  the  fire  over  a  sauce- 


syrup.  453 

pan  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  thick  (about  3  minutes). 
Taste  to  see  if  the  corn-starch  is  sufficiently  cooked.  Re- 
move from  the  fire  and  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  I 
lemon.  Serve  hot.  Or,  blend  the  corn-starch  with  a  little 
cold  water,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  water,  and  continue  to 
stir  until  thick  and  transparent.  Stir  in  the  lemon-rind  and 
the  butter  and  sugar  creamed  together.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  and,  while  boiling,  mix  it  into  the  egg  and  lemon-juice. 
Strain  into  a  sauce-boat  and  serve  hot. 

MARYLAND   WINE  SAUCE. 

4  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar,  ^  gill  of  wine, 

4  ounces  of  butter,  Yolks  of  2  eggs. 

Beat  together  yolks,  sugar,  and  butter.  When  thoroughly 
mixed,  set  over  boiling  water  on  the  fire ;  add  by  degrees 
the  wine,  and  stir  until  as  thick  and  smooth  as  rich  cream. 
Serve  hot. 

SYRUP  FOR  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

2  tablespoons  of  water,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar, 

I  even  tablespoon  of  butter. 

Boil  5  minutes.     Use  cold. 

SYRUP. 

2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  White  of  I  egg, 

i  pint  of  fresh  water. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  into  a  china-lined  saucepan.  Stir 
in  the  beaten  white  of  egg.  Now  set  the  saucepan  on  the 
fire.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  watch  that  it  does  not  rise  too 
fast,  but  it  must  bubble  and  froth  in  order  to  clear.  When 
it  has  boiled  about  5  minutes,  draw  it  to  the  side  of  the 
range ;  let  the  froth  subside,  then  skim  it  thoroughly,  and  it 
is  ready  for  use. 


DESSERTS:    JELLIES,  CREAMS,  FRITTERS,  CUS- 
TARDS, ETC. 

BA  VARIAN  CREAM. 

BAVAROISE. 

I  quart  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

Yz  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  4  eggs,  yolks  only, 

I  gill  of  cold  water,  Vanilla  or  rum. 

First  of  all,  put  I  pint  of  cream  on  the  ice  for  several 
hours,  till  it  becomes  thoroughly  cold.  Soak  the  gelatine  in 
the  cold  water  for  2  hours.  Put  1  pint  of  cream  in  the 
farina-kettle  and  bring  it  to  a  boil  with  the  sugar.  When  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  pour  it  over  the  gelatine.  Stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved,  returning  the  cream  to  the  fire  if  neces- 
sary. Set  aside  to  cool.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream. 
When  the  cream  is  cool  enough,  stir  in  the  eggs  briskly ; 
when  well  mixed,  strain  into  a  bowl ;  add  vanilla  or  rum  to 
taste  and  set  away  on  the  ice.  Now  take  the  other  pint  of 
cream  which  has  been  on  the  ice  all  this  time  ;  set  it  in  a 
bowl  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  and,  with  a  Dover  egg-beater, 
whip  it  to  a  stiff  froth,  skimming  the  froth,  as  it  rises,  into  a 
second  cold  bowl.  (N.  B. — Keep  all  very  cold,  and  you  will 
save  both  time  and  trouble.)  When  the  boiled  cream  is  quite 
cold  and  has  begun  to  thicken,  stir  it  over  ice  until  perfectly 
smooth  ;  then  stir  into  it  the  whipped  cream  with  as  few 
strokes  as  possible  to  mix  well.  Rinse  2  moulds,  Or  1  large 
one,  with  cold  water.  Fill  with  the  mixture  and  set  away  to 
harden.  When  firm,  turn  it  out  and  serve  with  or  without 
a  pitcher  of  cream,  or  with  Whipped-Cream  Sauce  (see  re- 
ceipt). This  is  not  at  all  difficult  to  make,  though  a  little 
tedious.     Delicious. 

454 


COFFEE   BAVARIAN   CREAM.  455 

CHOCOLA  TE  BA  VARIAN  CREAM. 

BAVAROISE   AU    CHOCOLAT. 

Proceed  as  directed  for  Bavarian  Cream,  adding  to  the 
boiling  cream  2  ounces  of  Maillard's  or  Huyler's  best  choco- 
late, grated  and  blended  with  I  or  2  teaspoons  of  boiling 
milk. 

STRAWBERRY  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

BAVAROISE  AUX   FRAISES. 

Put  I  pint  of  milk  on  the  ice  for  some  time,  to  get  it 
thoroughly  cold. 

Stem  2|-  pounds  of  ripe  berries.  Mash  them  through  a 
colander.  Add  6  ounces  of  powdered  sugar  to  the  juice. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water  2  hours.  When  the  sugar  is 
dissolved,  add  the  gelatine.  Stir  until  dissolved,  as  directed 
in  receipt  for  Bavarian  Cream.  Omit  the  pint  of  boiled 
cream  and  the  egg.  The  juice  of  the  berries  and  the  gela- 
tine should  measure  a  full  pint ;  if  not,  a  little  boiling  water 
may  be  added,  but  it  must  be  very  little.  Set  away  on  the 
ice  while  you  beat  the  cream  as  directed  in  Bavarian  Cream. 
Finish  as  before. 

Raspberry  Bavarian  Cream  may  be  made  exactly  as  above. 

COFFEE  BAVARIAN  CREAM. 

BAVAROISE    AU    CAFE. 

3  tablespoons  of  ground  Mocha,  I  pint  of  new  milk, 

4  eggs>  yolks  only,  i  cup  of  sugar, 

^  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  %   "    "   cold  water, 

I  pint  of  whipped  cream. 

Put  the  cream  on  the  ice  for  some  time,  to  get  it  thor- 
oughly cold. 

Throw  the  freshly-ground  coffee  into  the  boiling  milk  ; 
cover  and  stand  on  the  corner  of  the  range  for  1 5  minutes. 
Then  add  the  sugar ;  stir  until  dissolved.  Remove  from 
the  fire  and  stir  it  into  the  well-beaten  yolks.     Stir  steadily. 


456  GOOD-LIVING. 

When  well  mixed,  strain  It  into  a  clean  farina-kettle  and  set  it 
over  boiling  water  on  the  fire  ;  stir  until  the  custard  thickens 
a  little.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  While  hot, 
pour  it  over  the  gelatine  which  has  been  soaking  for  about 
2  hours  in  cold  water.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Strain  it  into 
a  bowl  and  put  it  on  the  ice.  When  beginning  to  set,  have 
the  cream  ready  whipped  ;  stir  the  coffee  over  ice,  and  finish 
as  directed  for  Bavarian  Cream  (see  receipt). 

ORANGE  BA  VARIAN  CREAM. 

BAVAROISE  A   L'ORANGE. 

Yz  box  Cox's  gelatine,  i  cup  of  white  sugar, 

I  pint  of  cream,  i  pint  of  new  milk, 

5  oranges,  5  eggs,  yolks  only. 

Put  the  cream  on  the  ice  for  hours  before  using,  and  get  it 
thoroughly  cold. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  cold  water.  Soak  it  I  to  2  hours. 
Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil.  When  boiling,  throw  it  over  the 
gelatine  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
to  a  cream,  then  stir  the  gelatine  and  milk  into  them.  Stir 
it  over  the  fire  in  a  clean  saucepan  for  2  minutes  ;  then 
strain  it  into  a  bowl  and  set  away  to  cool.  It  must  not  boil, 
or  it  will  curdle.  When  cold,  stir  in  the  strained  juice  of  the 
oranges.  Whip  the  cream  as  directed  for  Bavarian  Cream 
(see  receipt).  When  the  custard  is  very  cold  and  beginning 
to  set,  stir  it  over  ice  until  perfectly  smooth  and  thick  ;  add 
the  whipped  cream  and  finish  as  directed.  Serve  with  plain 
or  whipped  cream. 

SNOW  CREAM. 

NEIGE. 

4  whites  of  eggs,  i  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

I  pint  of  cream,  whipped,  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  of  sherry. 

Beat  the  whites  until  foamy ;  add  the  sifted  sugar  by 
degrees,  beating  steadily ;  then  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  NO  I.  457 

Add  sherry  and  vanilla.  Whip  the  cream  (which  has  been 
on  the  ice  for  hours)  to  a  stiff  froth,  over  a  pan  of  ice.  Stir 
it  carefully  into  the  meringue.  Serve  in  small  custard 
glasses,  very  cold.  You  may  add  to  the  above  a  few  sweet 
almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  very  fine.  Very  simple  for 
summer  dessert. 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 
creme  fouettee. 

The  secret  of  whipping  cream  easily  is,  first  of  all,  to  have 
good  cream,  and  then  to  set  it  on  the  ice  for  several  hours 
before  it  is  required.  When  that  time  arrives,  sweeten  the 
cream  to  taste ;  add  a  few  drops  of  Jamaica  rum ;  set  the 
bowl  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice.  Have  beside  you  a  second 
bowl ;  beat  the  cream  with  a  Dover  egg-beater.  As  the 
froth  rises,  remove  it  to  the  second  bowl.  If  the  whip 
is  required  to  be  very  stiff  indeed,  remove  the  froth  to  a 
sieve,  and,  as  the  unbeaten  cream  drains  from  it,  that  can  be 
returned  to  the  bowl  and  beaten  again. 

If  the  cream  itself  is  not  very  thick,  and  you  are  in  doubt 
about  it,  dissolve  \  of  an  ounce  of  gelatine  in  a  very  little  cold 
milk  for  I  hour,  then  place  the  cup  in  boiling  water  on  the  fire, 
and  stir  until  the  gelatine  dissolves.  When  this  is  cold,  but 
not  set,  it  can  be  whipped  into  the  cream  prepared  as  above. 
In  this  way  the  whip  will  be  quite  firm  after  setting  it  on  the 
ice  for  I  or  2  hours. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  NO.  I. 

I  quart  of  sweet  cream,  Whites  of  10  eggs, 

Vanilla  to  taste,        .  I  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 

%  box  of  gelatine  (Cox's). 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  £  a  pint  of  cold  water.  Soak  2 
hours ;  pour  over  it  £  a  pint  of  boiling  water ;  set  over  the 
fire  for  a  minute  to  scald  ;  stir  and  strain.  Set  away  to  cool. 
Beat  the  sugar  and  cream,  removing  to  another  bowl,  on  ice, 
the  froth  as  it  rises.     When  the  gelatine  is  cold,  beat  it  and 


458  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  these  to  the 
cream.  Rinse  out  moulds  with  cold  water,  and  line  them 
with  cake  (see  Charlotte  Russe  Cake,  or  Layer  Sponge) ; 
fill  them  with  the  cream,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  until 
firm.  The  above  may  also  be  made  with  the  whites  of  6  eggs 
to  the  quart  of  cream.  When  stiff,  turn  it  out  on  a  cut  paper, 
and  serve. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  NO.  II. 

}£  ounce  of  gelatine  (Cox's),  i  cup  of  milk, 

i  gill  of  sugar,  i  beaten  egg, 

Small  pinch  of  salt,  I  pint  of  cream, 

I  small  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  Charlotte  Russe  Cake. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Heat  the 
milk.  When  nearly  boiling,  stir  in  the  sugar  and  beaten 
egg,  together  with  the  salt.  Stir  briskly.  Add  the  vanilla 
and  gelatine.  Remove  from  the  fire,  strain  through  a  sieve, 
and  set  away  to  cool.  Whip  the  Cream  as  directed  (see  re- 
ceipt), removing  the  froth  to  a  sieve.  When  the  milk  is 
cold,  mix  all  lightly  and  quickly  together,  and  pour  into 
a  mould  which  has  been  lined  with  cake  (see  receipt).  Set 
it  immediately  on  the  ice,  and,  when  firm,  turn  out  on  a  cut 
paper,  and  serve. 

CHARLOTTE  PARISIENNE. 

y^  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  4  ounces  of  macaroons, 

1  cup  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  1  quart  of  cream, 

4  ounces  of  stale  lady-fingers,  4  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  a  little  cold  water  and  let  it  soak 
for  1  to  2  hours.  Have  the  cream  thoroughly  chilled.  Whip 
1  pint  of  it  (see  Whipped  Cream)  and  set  away  on  the  ice 
until  required.  Bring  the  remaining  pint  of  cream  to  a  boil 
in  the  farina-kettle.  Beat  together  eggs  and  sugar  until  well 
mixed.  When  the  cream  boils,  pour  a  little  of  it  upon  the 
eggs,  stirring  briskly  ;  pour  this  in  turn  back  into  the  kettle 


ORANGE   CREAM.  459 

and  stir  constantly  for  about  1  minute,  until  it  thickens.  Do 
not  let  it  boil  again,  or  it  will  curdle.  Stir  in  the  gelatine. 
Remove  from  the  fire ;  strain  into  a  bowl ;  add  the  powdered 
macaroons  and  lady-fingers,  the  cocoa-nut,  and  vanilla  to 
taste.  Stand  aside  until  cold  and  just  beginning  to  set. 
Then  place  the  bowl  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  and  stir  until 
smooth  and  thick  ;  then  beat  in  the  whipped  cream.  Mix 
evenly  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible.  Rinse  out  a  mould 
with  cold  water.  Fill  it  with  the  mixture  and  set  away  on 
the  ice.  When  firm,  turn  out  on  a  cut  paper  and  serve 
immediately. 

Or,  hollow  out  a  stale,  round  sponge-cake,  leaving  the 
bottom  and  sides  \  an  inch  thick.  Fill  with  the  mixture 
and  set  away  to  harden.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream  or 
Custard  Sauce,  very  cold. 

COFFEE  CREAM. 

GELEE   AU   CAFE. 

^  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine,  1  gill  of  sugar, 

1  gill  of  strong  coffee,  3  gills  of  cream. 

Soak  the  gelatine  1  hour  in  £  a  gill  of  cold  milk.  Add  the 
boiling  coffee  and  the  sugar.  Stir  and  dissolve.  Place  it 
over  boiling  water  on  the  fire  if  not  quite  melted,  and  stir 
until  dissolved.  Remove  from  the  fire.  When  cool,  stir  in 
the  cream.  Rinse  out  a  mould  with  cold  water.  Strain  the 
mixture  into  it,  and  set  away  on  the  ice  to  harden.  Turn 
out  on  a  cut  paper  and  serve  immediately. 

ORANGE  CREAM. 

GELEE   A   LA   CREME   D'ORANGE. 

3  gills  of  cream,  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

2  "      "  sugar,  y2  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine, 
1  gill  of  orange-juice,                        Grated  rind  of  1  orange, 

%  gill  of  cold  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  2  hours  in  \  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Mean- 
while soak  the  orange-rind  in  the  orange-juice.     Then  melt 


460  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  gelatine  by  setting  the  bowl  over  boiling  water  on  the 
fire.  Add  the  orange-juice.  When  quite  hot  and  the  gela- 
tine is  dissolved,  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  add  carefully 
the  yolk  beaten  with  the  sugar.  Stir  briskly.  Place  it  again 
on  the  fire  over  hot  water  and  stir  until  it  thickens ;  but  do 
not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Then  remove ;  stir  in  the 
cream.  Strain  the  jelly  into  a  mould  which  has  been  rinsed 
with  cold  water.  Set  away  on  the  ice  to  harden ;  turn  out 
on  a  cut  paper ;  serve  very  cold  with  cream. 

VELVET  CREAM. 

CREME   VELOUTEE. 

2  gills  of  white  wine,  Juice  of  1  lemon, 

y^  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  Sugar  to  taste, 

1  pint  of  cream. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  wine  for  2  hours.  Set  it  over 
boiling  water  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  it  dissolves,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  Then  dissolve  the  sugar  with  the  gelatine. 
Remove  from  the  fire  ;  when  cool,  add  the  lemon-juice,  then 
the  cream.  Stir  until  quite  cold.  Rinse  out  a  mould  with 
cold  water.  Strain  the  cream  into  it,  and  set  away  on  the  ice 
to  harden.     Serve  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

SPANISH  CREAM. 

^  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  5  eggs, 

1  gill  of  soft  sugar,  ij£  pints  of  milk, 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  gill  of  powdered  sugar. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  cold  milk  or  water,  using  no  more 
than  is  necessary.  Soak  from  I  to  2  hours.  Bring  the  milk 
to  a  boil.  Beat  the  yolks  and  soft  sugar  together  in  a  bowl 
until  light ;  pour  a  little  of  the  boiling  milk  upon  the  eggs 
and  sugar.  Beat  well  together  ;  then  in  turn  pour  the  eggs 
into  the  milk  which  is  on  the  fire.  Turn  the  gelatine  into  the 
milk  and  stir  over  boiling  water  until  the  gelatine  dissolves 
and  the  eggs  begin  to  thicken  slightly.  Do  not  let  it  boil  or 
the  eggs  will  curdle.     Remove  from  the  fire  ;  strain  ;  add  the 


SNOW  PUDDING.  461 

vanilla.  Rinse  out  a  fancy  mould  with  cold  water  ;  pour  the 
mixture  into  it.  Set  away  on  the  ice  until  firm.  When 
ready  to  serve,  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  foam;  add  the 
powdered  sugar  gradually,  and  beat  until  stiff  and  glossy. 
Turn  out  the  cream  on  a  cut  paper  ;  heap  the  meringue 
around  it,  and  serve  very  cold. 

GELATINE  PUDDING. 

4  eggs,  I  pint  of  milk, 

yi  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  Sugar  to  taste, 

Vanilla,  ^  cup  of  boiling  water  (1^  gills). 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil.  Beat  in  a  bowl  the  yolks  of 
eggs  with  about  2  level  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  When  the 
milk  boils,  stir  it  carefully  into  the  eggs ;  sweeten  to  taste. 
Put  the  eggs  and  milk  into  a  saucepan  over  boiling  water, 
and  stir  steadily  until  slightly  thickened  ;  but  do  not  boil,  or 
the  eggs  will  curdle.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Meanwhile,  soak 
the  gelatine  in  about  1  gill  of  cold  water  for  2  hours ;  pour 
over  it  the  boiling  water ;  stir  until  dissolved  ;  strain  and 
set  aside  until  cold  and  just  about  to  set.  When  the  cus- 
tard, flavored  to  taste  with  vanilla,  is  cold,  beat  the  whites 
of  eggs  and  gelatine  first  separately,  then  together,  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Add  these  to  the  custard  and  beat  well.  Rinse  out 
a  mould  with  cold  water ;  pour  in  the  mixture,  and  set  away 
to  harden.  It  will  settle  in  3  layers,  making  a  dessert  which 
is  pleasing  to  both  eye  and  palate.  Turn  out  of  the  mould 
on  a  cut  paper,  and  serve  very  cold. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

y$  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  Juice  of  one  lemon, 

1  cup  of  sugar,  Slice  of  lemon-rind, 

2  whites  of  eggs,  y£  pint  of  boiling  water, 
%  pint  of  cold  water,  y^     "     "  wine. 

Put  the  gelatine  to  soak  in  the  cold  water  for  I  hour  with 
a  piece  of  lemon-rind.  Then  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water ; 
set  it  on  the  fire  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Add  the  sugar, 
lemon-juice,    and    wine.      When   the   sugar   is   all   melted, 


462  GOOD-LIVING, 

strain  the  jelly  into  a  bowl,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place. 
The  liquid  should  measure  1  full  pint.  In  summer,  it  is 
better  to  make  it  a  little  scant  measure,  as  it  does  not 
stiffen  as  well.  When  the  jelly  is  cool,  beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth.  Fill  your  quart  mould  with  cold 
water,  and  let  it  stand  while  the  pudding  is  being  prepared. 
As  soon  as  the  jelly  is  set  a  little  firm,  beat  it  smooth  with 
a  Dover  egg-beater ;  then  beat  into  it  the  whites  of  eggs. 
In  summer  it  is  best  to  stand  the  bowl  in  ice  while  you  are 
beating.  When  all  is  beaten  smoothly  together,  throw  the 
cold  water  out  of  the  mould ;  fill  it  with  the  mixture,  and 
set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  When  firm,  turn  it  out  and 
serve  either  with  Whipped-Cream  Sauce,  or  with  a  Custard 
Sauce,  very  cold.  If  you  do  not  use  wine,  use  the  juice  of 
2  lemons,  and  make  up  the  necessary  amount  of  liquid  with 
boiling  water.     Excellent. 

COLD   CABINET  PUDDING. 

Prepare  a  cream  blanc-mange  or  Velvet  Cream  (see  re- 
ceipt). Before  it  is  stiff,  put  a  little  into  a  mould  which 
has  been  rinsed  in  cold  water ;  let  it  run  all  over  to  coat 
the  surface  thinly ;  ornament  it  with  candied  cherries, 
etc.  Fill  the  mould  loosely  with  firm,  preserved  candied 
or  brandied  fruits,  macaroons,  stale  sponge-cake  soaked  in 
wine,  and  a  little  citron  sliced  very  thin.  Then  fill  the 
mould  slowly  and  carefully  with  the  blanc-mange,  which 
should  be  now  as  thick  as  batter ;  stand  it  on  the  ice  for 
several  hours,  until  perfectly  firm  ;  then  turn  it  out  on  a  cut 
paper,  and  serve  with  cream. 

GELBE  SPEISE. 

8  ounces  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  boiling  water, 

2      "        "  citron,  sliced  thin,  1  ounce  of  gelatine, 

1  large  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  2  ounces  of  stoned  raisins, 

5  whites  of  eggs,  9  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  quart  of  cold  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  for  1  hour  in  1  quart  of  cold  water.  See 
that  it  is  kept  covered  by  the  water.     Beat  the  yolks  of 


ORANGE  JELLY  IN  BASKETS.  463 

eggs  with  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  lemon  and  the  sugar. 
Strain  the  gelatine  from  the  water,  and  put  it  into  a 
2-quart  saucepan.  Pour  over  this  I  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Stir  until  dissolved.  Pour  £  of  this  over  the  eggs  and 
sugar ;  stir  briskly  ;  then  stir  this  back  into  the  pail  con- 
taining the  remaining  half  of  the  gelatine,  stirring  very 
quickly  all  the  time.  Set  the  pail  over  boiling  water  on  the 
fire  and  stir  until  it  becomes  as  thick  as  boiled  custard.  Do 
not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Remove  and  set  in  a  cold  place 
until  as  thick  as  batter.  .  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth. 
Add  the  fruit  to  the  jelly ;  mix ;  then  add  the  whites. 
Beat  thoroughly  together  with  as  few  strokes  as  possible. 
Rinse  out  2  pint-moulds  with  cold  water ;  fill  with  the 
mixture,  and  set  away  on  the  ice  to  harden.  Turn  out  on 
cut  paper,  and  serve  very  cold  with. cream  or  Whipped- 
Cream  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

ORANGE  JELLY  IN  BASKETS. 

GELEE   A   L'ORANGE. 

12  oranges,  1  box  of  Cox's  gelatine, 

1  gill  of  curacoa,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Squeeze  the  oranges,  which  should  be  fine,  large  Floridas ; 
extract  every  drop  of  juice.  Put  a  boxful  of  gelatine,  with 
enough  of  the  juice  to  cover  it  well,  to  soak  for  1  hour  or 
more.  Now  set  the  bowl  in  boiling  water  and  stir  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Add  the  rest  of  the  juice  ;  sweeten  to 
taste.  Then  add  a  wine-glass  of  best  curacoa.  Strain  the 
jelly  through  a  very  fine  strainer  or  coarse  muslin,  and  set  to 
harden  in  a  mould  which  has  been  rinsed  out  with  cold 
water.  There  should  be  1  quart  and  1  pint  of  jelly  in  all. 
If  the  oranges  have  not  yielded  all  the  juice  required,  make 
up  the  quantity  of  liquid  by  adding  boiling  water.  This 
jelly  is  not  crystal-clear,  but  is  delicious.  If  you  can  take 
the  time  and  trouble,  it  is  much  prettier  to  serve  the  jelly  in 
orange-baskets  made  as  follows  : 

Before  making  the  jelly,  cut  your  oranges  in  this  way : 
have  a  very  sharp  knife  with  which  make  a  cut  across  the 


464  GOOD-LIVING. 

stem  end  of  the  orange,  just  escaping  the  hole  of  the  stem, 
and  going  ^-way  through  the  fruit  ;  \  an  inch  from  this, 
make  a  second  cut  the  same  depth  ;  this  will  make  the 
handle,  so  that  the  stem-hole  must  not  appear  in  it,  or  in- 
deed anywhere  on  the  basket.  Now  turn  the  fruit,  and 
make  an  incision  at  right  angles  to  the  cut  made  for  the  han- 
dle, which  2  cuts  must  join,  thus  detaching  a  piece  like  a 
small  quarter  of  the  orange.  Turn  the  fruit  to  the  opposite 
side  and  do  the  same,  being  careful  that  the  2  side-cuts  are 
exactly  on  a  level.  This  makes  the  basket.  Now,  with  a 
sharp  knife,  carefully  cut  the  fruit  from  the  inner-side  of  the 
handle  and  basket,  taking  the  greatest  care  not  to  pierce  the 
skin  anywhere.  Loosen  it  with  a  teaspoon  and  scoop  out 
fruit,  juice,  seeds,  and  all  the  pithy,  white  pulp  that  can  be 
safely  scraped  away.  -Save  every  drop  of  the  juice  for  the  jelly 
as  first  directed.  The  quantity  of  jelly  given  in  the  receipt 
should  fill  the  12  baskets  quite  full,  leaving  a  little  over,  which 
put  on  a  shallow  dish  and  set  away  to  harden  with  the  rest. 
When  firm,  tie  colored  bows  of  fresh  ribbon  on  the  handles 
of  the  baskets  ;  dish  them  on  a  pretty,  round  dish  ;  crumb 
up  with  a  fork  the  extra  jelly  in  the  shallow  dish,  and  pile  it 
around  and  between  the  baskets.  This  makes  really  such  a 
pretty  and  delicious  dessert,  at  so  little  expense,  that  if  you 
have  time  to  give  to  it,  it  will  repay  you  for  the  trouble.  At 
the  pastry-cook's,  you  will  pay  $3.50  to  $4.00  a  dozen  for 
these,  which,  made  at  home,  and  quite  as  good,  will  not  cost 
more  than  75  cents,  in  winter,  when  oranges  are  plentiful. 

N.  B. — Use  pure  orange-juice  for  the  jelly  as  far  as  possi- 
ble, adding  boiling  water  only  if  absolutely  necessary. 

LEMON  JELLY. 

GELEE   AU    CITRON. 

1  ounce  of  Cox's  gelatine,  2  gills  of  cold  water, 

5  large  lemons,  juice  only,  White  and  shell  of  1  egg, 

2  cups  of  soft  sugar,  or  to  taste,  1^  pints  of  boiling  water. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  2  hours.     Cut  a 
few  strips  of  lemon-rind  ;  put  these  to  soak  with  the  gela- 


WINE  JELL  Y.  465 

tine.  Now  pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  gelatine  ;  add 
sugar,  lemon-juice,  and  white  of  egg,  slightly  beaten,  also 
the  shell,  crushed.  Let  it  boil  briskly  for  3  minutes ;  then 
set  the  kettle  on  the  hearth  for  5  minutes.  Skim.  Pass 
through  a  jelly-bag,  once  or  twice,  until  sufficiently  clear. 
Rinse  out  a  large  mould  with  cold  water  ;  fill  with  the  jelly 
and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Turn  out  on  a  cut  paper 
and  serve  with  or  without  Custard  Sauce  (see  receipt). 

PLUM-PUDDING  MADE  OVER. 

Line  a  Charlotte-Russe  mould  with  slices  of  cold  Plum- 
Pudding  or  Wedding  Cake,  fitted  closely  together.  Fill  the 
centre  with  Gelatine  Pudding  or  Velvet  Cream  (see  receipts). 
Set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  When  firm,  turn  out  and 
serve  with  a  cold  Custard  or  Brandy  Sauce  (see  receipts), 
poured  around. 

WINE  JELLY. 

GELEE  AU  VIN  DE  MADERE. 

1  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  1  pint  of  cold  water, 

1  pint  of  sherry,  with  a  little  brandy,  3  lemons,  juice  and  peel, 
\%  pounds  of  soft  sugar,  1  quart  of  boiling  water, 

2  whites  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  2  shells  of  eggs,  crushed, 

1  small  stick  of  cinnamon,  about  2  inches  long. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  for  1  hour  or  more.  Then 
pour  over  it  the  boiling  water.  Add  eggs,  shells,  sugar, 
lemon-juice,  and  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind,  and  cinnamon. 
Bring  to  a  boil.  Let  it  boil  3  minutes  without  stirring,  then 
set  it  on  the  hearth  for  5  minutes.  Skim.  Add  the  wine, 
which  should  be  perfectly  clear.  Pass  all  through  a  jelly-bag 
once,  or  until  clear.  Rinse  out  moulds  with  cold  water. 
Fill  with  the  jelly  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 
Champagne,  brandy,  madeira,  maraschino,  rum,  or  kirsch 
may  be  added,  in  combination  or  separately,  to  the  above,  if 
the  quantity  of  wine  does  not  exceed  the  proportions  set 
30 


466  GOOD-LIVING. 

down.  In  summer,  less  water  should  be  used,  as  the  jelly 
does  not  harden  so  easily :  the  quantity  of  liquid  should  then 
measure  3  pints  in  all. 

FANCY  JELLY. 

GELEE   FANTAISIE. 

1  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  Juice  of  2  lemons, 

2  gills  of  sherry,  "     "  "  oranges, 
2      "    "  cold  water,                                      i  pound  of  sugar, 

I  gill  of  brandy,  i  quart  of  boiling  water. 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  the  cold  water  and  soak  I  hour  or 
more.  Add  sugar  and  boiling  water.  Set  over  the  fire  and 
stir  until  sugar  and  gelatine  are  dissolved.  Add  lemon-  and 
orange-juice,  sherry,  and  brandy.  Rinse  out  a  mould  with 
cold  water.  Fill  it  with  jelly,  strained  through  a  jelly-bag  or 
fine  sieve.  Set  away  to  harden.  The  jelly  will  not  be  per- 
fectly clear  on  account  of  the  fruit-juice,  but  the  excellence 
of  its  flavor  will  more  than  compensate  for  its  slight  cloudi- 
ness. 

N.  B. — In  summer  lessen  the  quantity  of  cold  water,  as  the 
weather  will  prevent  its  hardening  as  well  as  in  winter.  The 
liquid  should  in  this  case  measure  3  pints  in  all. 

MACEDOINE  OF  FRULT. 

MACEDOINE   DE   FRUITS. 

Make  very  clear  Wine  Jelly  (see  receipt).  Champagne  is 
recommended  for  the  jelly.  Have  ready  either  small  fresh 
fruits,  such  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  cherries,  sliced  apri- 
cots or  peaches,  or  sections  of  oranges  skinned  and  seeded  ; 
or  use  preserved  or  brandied  fruits — these  last  preferably. 
Rinse  out  the  mould  in  cold  water.  Pour  in  jelly  to  the 
depth  of  £  an  inch.  Set  on  the  ice  to  harden.  Keep  the 
rest  of  the  jelly  cool,  but  where  it  will  not  harden.  When 
the  jelly  in  the  mould  is  set,  lay  in  some  fruit,  neatly  and 
tastefully;  pour  over  this  only  just  enough  jelly  to  barely 


TIPSY  CAKE.  467 

cover  (any  more  will  make  the  fruit  float).  Set  away  again 
to  harden.  Repeat  this  process  until  the  mould  is  filled.  If 
preferred,  alternate  with  layers  of  plain  jelly.  When  full, 
set  away  for  several  hours  to  harden  well.  If  there  is  any 
plain  jelly  left,  set  it  aside,  and  when  it  is  stiffening,  beat  it 
to  a  froth  and  serve  around  the  Macedoine.  Or  set  it  to 
harden  in  shallow  dishes,  and,  when  ready  for  use,  crumb  it 
with  a  fork  and  heap  it  around  the  base  of  the  Macedoine 
when  ready  to  serve,  turned  out  on  a  dish.  This  adds 
greatly  to  the  effect  of  this  very  pretty  dessert. 

PINE-APPLE  SNOW. 

NEIGE  A  L'ANANAS. 

4  whites  of  eggs,  4  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar, 

1  pint  of  cream,  whipped,  1  pine-apple. 

Pare,  remove  the  eyes,  and  grate  the  pine-apple.  Put  the 
pulp  upon  a  sieve  to  drain.  Mix  the  snow  as  directed  in 
receipt  for  Snow  Cream.  When  all  is  ready  and  the  cream 
whipped  very  stiff,  beat  in  the  pine-apple  pulp,  adding  as 
much  as  the  cream  and  meringue  will  hold  without  becoming 
too  soft.     Serve  very  cold  in  custard  glasses. 

TRIFLE. 

Cream,         •  Sherry, 

Raspberry-jam,  Cake. 

Put  I  layer  of  stale  cake,  Sponge  or  Layer  Cake  No.  I.  or 
No.  II.  (see  receipts)  in  the  bottom  of  a  round  dish  ;  spread 
it  over  with  a  thick  layer  of  raspberry-  or  strawberry-jam 
or  jelly  ;  baste  it,  by  the  spoonful,  with  sherry  until  the  cake 
will  absorb  no  more.  Beat  about  1  pint  of  rich  cream  to  a 
very  stiff  froth  (see  receipt).  Heap  this  over  the  cake,  and 
decorate  to  taste.     Very  simple  and  delicious. 

TIPSY  CAKE. 

PAN   BORACHO. 

Prepare  the  stale  cake  as  above  with  jam  and  wine.  Make 
about  1  pint  of  rich  Custard  (see  receipt),  and  pour  it  over 


468  GOOD-LIVING. 

the  cake.  Reserve  2  of  the  whites  of  egg  from  the  custard 
and  beat  them  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  a  little  jelly  may  be  beaten 
through  the  whites  when  they  are  stiff.  Heap  this  over  the 
custard,  and  serve  very  cold.  Or,  serve  in  individual  cus- 
tard-glasses.    Delicious. 

ITALIAN  CUSTARD. 

CREME    ITALIENNE. 

Allow  I  egg  to  each  person.  Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream  ; 
add  sugar  and  lemon-juice  to  taste,  beating  all  the  while. 
The  eggs  should  thicken  like  cream.  Put  this  into  custard- 
glasses.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  perfectly 
stiff,  whip  in  a  little  currant-jelly,  and  beat  until  evenly  col- 
ored. Heap  this  upon  the  custard  in  the  glasses.  Set  in 
the  ice-box,  and  serve  very  cold.     Delicious. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

CREME. 

1  quart  of  new  milk,  5  eggs, 

7.yz  tablespoons  of  sugar,  Flavoring  to  taste. 

Small  pinch  of  salt, 

Put  the  milk  on  the  fire  in  a  farina-kettle.  Beat  the  eggs 
together  in  a  bowl  with  the  sugar  and  salt,  until  creamy. 
When  the  milk  is  boiling,  pour  it  by  degrees  into  the  eggs 
and  sugar,  very  gradually,  stirring  briskly  all  the  time. 
Strain  this  back  into  the  farina-kettle  ;  set  it  again  on  the 
fire  where  it  will  heat,  but  not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Stir 
constantly  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  add 
flavoring  to  taste.  Set  away  to  cool.  The  only  danger  in 
making  boiled  custard  is  that  it  may  curdle.  If  the  above 
directions  are  strictly  observed,  and  new  milk  used  for  the 
purpose,  it  will  not  curdle.  Or,  the  custard  may  be  made 
with  yolks  only,  allowing  6  to  the  quart  of  milk.  It  must 
be  stirred  longer  over  the  fire,  as  it  will  thicken  more  slowly. 
In  this  latter  case,  the  whites  of  eggs  may  be  used  for  Angel 
Cake,  etc.,  etc.  (see  receipts). 


CARAMEL    CUSTARD.  469 

CREME  BACH  I  QUE. 

1  pint  of  good  white  wine,  7  or  8  yolks  of  eggs, 

Lemon-peel  or  stick-cinnamon,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Put  the  wine,  lemon-peel,  or  cinnamon,  and  sugar  (about  1 
gill)  into  a  saucepan.  Bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream.  When  the  wine  boils,  remove  it 
and  pour  gently  upon  the  yolks,  stirring  briskly  all  the  time. 
Add  more  sugar  if  required.  Have  ready  small  custard- 
cups  in  a  baking-pan.  Strain  the  custard  into  the  cups. 
Pour  boiling  water  into  the  pan  to  about  half  the  height  of 
the  cups,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-quick  oven  until  set, 
from  10  to  12  minutes.  Do  not  let  them  harden  too  much. 
Serve  very  cold. 

BAKED  COFFEE  CUSTARD. 

CREME   AU    CAFE. 

I  quart  of  new  milk,  6  eggs, 

3  heaping  tablespoons  of  ground  coffee,  Sugar  to  taste. 

Use,  if  you  can,  Mocha  and  Java  coffees  mixed.  Grind 
the  coffee.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  the  milk  ;  bring  it 
to  boiling  point  ;  then  set  it  aside  on  the  range  and  let  it 
steep  for  about  15  minutes,  covered.  Meanwhile,  break  the 
eggs  into  a  bowl  and  beat  enough  to  mix.  Add  about  3 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  beat  well  together.  Bring  the 
coffee  and  milk  once  more  to  a  boil  and  strain  it,  boiling, 
into  the  bowl  of  eggs,  stirring  briskly.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Have  ready  12  small  custard-cups  in  a  baking-pan.  Strain 
the  custard  into  the  cups.  Fill  the  pan  with  boiling  water 
to  half  the  height  of  the  custard-cups.  Bake  in  a  moder- 
ately-quick oven  10  to  12  minutes,  until  the  custard  is  just 
set ;  do  not  let  it  bake  hard.  It  will  become  firmer  as  it 
cools. 

CARAMEL   CUSTARD. 

CREME   AU   CARAMEL. 

1  pint  of  brown  sugar,  3  pints  of  milk, 

7  eggs 

Melt  the  sugar,  until  liquid,  in  a  frying-pan,  then  add  it 
slowly  to  the  boiling  milk,  stirring  constantly.     Beat   the 


470  GOOD-LIVING. 

eggs  in  a  bowl.  Stir  the  boiling  milk  into  them  by  degrees, 
stirring  briskly  all  the  while.  Have  ready  small  custard-cups 
in  a  baking-pan.  Strain  the  custard  into  the  cups.  Fill  the 
pan  with  boiling  water  to  half  the  height  of  the  cups  ;  put 
it  into  a  moderately-quick  oven  for  io  to  12  minutes,  until 
set,  but  not  hard.  It  will  grow  firmer  as  it  cools.  Serve 
very  cold. 


CHOCOLATE  AND  OTHER  BAKED  CUSTARDS. 

CREME   AU    CHOCOLAT,    ETC. 

Proceed  exactly  as  directed  for  Coffee  Custard,  using,  in- 
stead, vanilla  or  other  flavoring  to  taste.  If  chocolate  is 
used,  allow  about  2  ounces  of  Maillard's  or  Huyler's  best  to 
I  quart  of  milk.  Dissolve  the  chocolate  in  the  milk,  and 
proceed  as  directed,  using  12  small  cups  or  I  large  dish. 

COLD  CUSTARD  OR  JUNKET. 

I  quart  of  new  milk,  Sugar  to  taste, 

1  tablespoon  of  rennet. 

Heat  the  milk  to  blood-heat,  but  do  not  boil.  Have  ready 
in  a  glass  bowl  the  rennet  and  sugar.  When  the  milk  is 
warm,  not  scalding,  pour  it  into  the  bowl,  stirring  only  just 
enough  to  mix.  Grate  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  until  the  milk  becomes  firm.  Serve  very  cold. 
Whey  for  the  use  of  invalids  may  be  made  in  like  manner, 
using  a  little  more  rennet.  When  it  has  stood  long  enough, 
the  curd  will  separate  and  the  whey  can  be  drained  off.  A 
little  sherry  or  vanilla  may  be  added  to  the  above  as 
flavoring. 

SLIP. 

The  same  as  Junket,  flavored  with  Jamaica  rum.  Serve 
very  cold  with  a  pitcher  of  cream. 


COCOA-NUT  CREAM  BLANC-MANGE.  41/ 1 

CHOCOLA  TE  BLANC-MANGE. 

1  quart  of  new  milk,  Sugar  to  taste, 

4  heaping  tablespoons  of  corn-starch,  2  ounces  of  grated  chocolate, 

I  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

When  the  milk  has  come  to  a  boil,  pour  it  into  a  bowl 
over  the  grated  chocolate  ;  when  dissolved,  return  to  the  fire 
and  stir  smooth.  Measure  the  corn-starch  into  a  small  bowl ; 
pour  a  little  cold  water  on  it  and  rub  until  absolutely  smooth, 
adding  just  enough  cold  water  to  make  it  pour  easily.  When 
the  milk  boils,  pour  in  the  corn-starch  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  thickens  and  cooks  thoroughly,  4  or  5  minutes. 
Taste  to  see  that  the  corn-starch  is  perfectly  smooth  and 
cooked  ;  if  not,  stir  and  boil  longer.  Remove  from  the 
fire  ;  stir  in  enough  sugar  to  make  it  very  sweet,  and  vanilla 
to  taste.  The  yolks  of  2  eggs  may  be  added  if  liked,  but 
are  not  necessary.  Rinse  a  3-pint  mould  with  cold  water  ; 
drain  and  pour  in  the  mixture,  which  should  be  quite  thick. 
Set  away  for  several  hours  in  a  cold  place  until  firm.  Serve 
with  good  cream  or  cold  Custard  Sauce  (see  receipt).  The 
blanc-mange  should  be  very  firm  when  turned  out.  If  made 
as  above,  it  should  be  perfectly  smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 

COCOA-NUT  CREAM  BLANC-MANGE. 

2  cups  of  grated  cocoa-nut,  4  tablespoons  of  corn-starch, 

1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  pint  of  milk, 

4  eggs>  1  gill  °f  s°ft  sugar. 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil.  Measure  4  level  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn-starch ;  blend  perfectly  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
milk ;  when  the  milk  boils,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  ;  stir  and  boil 
until  it  thickens,  3  to  5  minutes.  Taste,  to  see  that  the  corn- 
starch is  perfectly'smooth.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  corn-starch,  then  the  whites 
of  eggs,  and  beat  well  over  the  fire  for  3  minutes,  but  do  not 
boil  or  it  will  curdle.  Add  the  cocoa-nut  and  vanilla. 
Rinse  out  a  mould  with  cold  water ;  pour  in  the  mixture 
and  set  away  on  the  ice  to  harden.     Serve  with  Custard 


472  GOOD-LIVING. 

Sauce   made   of  the   yolks  of  the   eggs  and  flavored   with 
vanilla. 

N.  B. — If  the  milk  is  not  quite  thick  enough,  before  add- 
ing sugar  and  eggs,  stir  in  a  little  more  corn-starch,  blended 
as  above. 

CORN-STARCH  BLANC-MANGE. 

i  quart  of  new  milk,  I  gill  of  sugar, 

8  level  tablespoons  of  corn-starch,  Pinch  of  salt, 

Flavoring  to  taste. 

Bring  the  milk  to  a  boil  in  a  farina-kettle.  Blend  the 
corn-starch  with  a  little  cold  milk,  and,  when  the  milk  in  the 
kettle  boils,  stir  in  the  corn-starch.  Stir  without  intermission 
until  it  thickens,  about  5  minutes.  Taste  to  see  that  the 
corn-starch  is  perfectly  smooth ;  if  not,  boil  a  little  longer. 
Remove  from  the  fire  ;  stir  in  the  sugar,  salt,  and  flavoring. 
Rinse  out  a  mould  with  cold  water.  Pour  in  the  corn-starch 
and  set  away  on  the  ice  to  cool  and  harden.  Serve  very 
cold  with  Custard  Sauce,  flavored  with  vanilla. 

N.  B. — The  above  is  greatly  improved  by  the  addition, 
when  removed  from  the  fire,  of  2  eggs  well  beaten  in.  Fin- 
ish as  directed. 

RODGROD  (DANISH). 

Take  fresh  raspberries ;  sweeten  to  taste  and  set  in  a  china- 
lined  saucepan  on  the  fire  to  scald.  When  the  fruit  begins 
to  dissolve,  press  it  through  a  sieve,  taking  all  but  the  seeds. 
Put  the  juice  again  on  the  fire,  measuring  the  quantity.  To 
every  quart  of  juice,  allow  about  3  heaping  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn-starch.  Blend  the  corn-starch  with  a  little  of  the 
cold  juice.  When  the  juice  in  the  saucepan  comes  to  a  boil, 
stir  in  the  corn-starch  and  continue  to  stir  until  it  has  boiled 
3  to  5  minutes,  is  thick  and  transparent  (not  milky).  Taste 
to  see  that  the  corn-starch  is  perfectly  smooth  ;  if  not,  boil  a 
little  longer.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir  in  currant-jelly 
to  taste.     (Or  some  fresh  currants  may  be  stewed  with  the 


TAPIOCA  JELLY.  473 

raspberries,  allowing  about  I  part  of  currants  to  3  parts  of 
raspberries.)  Have  ready  blanched  about  2  gills  of  almonds 
to  1  quart  of  juice.  Cut  the  almonds  into  shreds  and  stir 
them  into  the  mixture.  Rinse  out  a  mould  with  cold  water ; 
fill  with  the  mixture,  and  set  away  to  harden.  It  should  not 
become  quite  as  stiff  as  blanc-mange.  Serve  in  a  glass  dish 
with  a  pitcher  of  very  thick  cream.  Or,  the  same  may  be 
made  with  Cox's  gelatine,  using  I  ounce  of  gelatine  to  I 
quart  of  juice.     Delicious. 

FRUIT  BLANC-MANGE. 

KISELLE. 

Stew  any  kind  of  fresh  fruit,  such  as  raspberries,  strawber- 
ries, etc. ;  strain  off  the  juice  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Measure 
the  juice  and  put  it  again  on  the  fire.  To  every  pint  of 
juice  allow  2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  blended 
with  a  little  cold  water.  When  the  juice  boils,  stir  in  the 
corn-starch,  and  continue  to  stir  until  the  corn-starch  is 
thoroughly  done,  which  will  require  about  5  minutes'  boil- 
ing. Taste,  and  if  perfectly  smooth,  pour  it  into  moulds 
which  have  been  rinsed  out  with  cold  water.  Set  in  a  cold 
place  to  harden  ;  when  firm,  turn  out  and  serve  with  cream 
and  sugar.  It  may  be  set  to  harden  in  small  teacups.  Recom- 
mended. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

GELEE   DE   TAPIOCA. 

4  cups  of  cold  water,  1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind, 

1  cup  of  tapioca,  soaked  4  or  5  hours,        Sugar  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  the  water  as  directed,  or  overnight ; 
add  the  sugar ;  set  on  the  fire  in  a  farina-kettle,  and  boil  I 
hour,  or  until  perfectly  transparent.  When  nearly  cooked, 
add  lemon-juice  and  a  little  of  the  grated  rind.  Rinse  out 
small  moulds  or  cups  with  cold  water ;  fill  with  the  mixture 
and  set  in  a  cold  place  to  harden.  Turn  out  and  serve  very 
cold  with  sweetened  cream  or  Custard  Sauce  (see  receipt). 
Excellent  for  children  and  invalids. 


474  GOOD-LIVING. 

TAPIOCA    WHIP. 

3  tablespoons  of  tapioca,  I  quart  of  new  milk, 

3  eggs,  Vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste. 

Soak  the  tapioca  in  water  overnight.  Next  day  put  the 
milk  on  to  boil ;  dry  the  tapioca  and  stir  it  into  the  milk. 
Boil  until  thoroughly  tender,  about  30  minutes.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs.  Remove  the  tapioca  from  the  fire  ;  flavor, 
sweeten,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  very  carefully.  Return  to  the 
fire  over  boiling  water  and  stir  for  2  or  3  minutes,  but  do  not 
boil,  or  the  eggs  will  curdle.  Set  away  to  cool.  Beat  the 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  When  the  tapioca  is  very 
cold,  whip  in  half  of  the  whites.  Put  into  custard-glasses. 
To  the  remaining  whites,  add  powdered  sugar  to  the  thick- 
ness of  a  meringue,  and  heap  this  on  the  top  of  the  whip. 
Serve  very  cold. 

APPLE   WHIP. 

1  pint  of  Boiled  Custard,  i  pint  of  Apple  Sauce, 

Sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste. 

Make  the  custard  according  to  receipt.  Prepare  the  Apple 
Sauce  (see  receipt) ;  press  through  the  colander.  When 
cold,  whip  both  together.  Add  vanilla  and  sugar  to  taste. 
If  liked,  the  whites  of  2  eggs  may  be  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
beaten  into  the  whip  at  the  last  minute.     Serve  very  cold. 

BEIGNETS  SOUFFLES. 

1  cup  of  boiling  water,  I  cup  of  sifted  flour, 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  Grated  lemon-peel, 

4  whole  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  butter, 

1  white  of  egg,  Pinch  of  salt, 

yi  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  Lard  for  frying. 

Put  the  butter,  salt,  sugar,  lemon,  and  water  together  in 
a  saucepan.  Let  them  boil.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  stir 
in  enough  flour  to  make  a  paste  (about  1  cupful).     Stir  over 


COQUETTES.  475 

the  fire  until  perfectly  smooth  and  until  so  thick  that  it  be- 
gins to  leave  the  sides  of  the  saucepan.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire ;  beat  in  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time ;  beat  very  hard ; 
add  finally  the  white,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  The  batter 
should  be  thick  enough  to  drop  slowly  from  the  spoon.  Set 
in  the  ice-box  for  2  hours.  Have  ready  in  a  saucepan  the 
lard,  which  should  be  at  least  2  inches  deep  when  melted,  so 
that  the  beignets  may  puff  and  cook  without  touching  the 
bottom.  Bring  the  lard  to  a  boil ;  test  it  with  a  piece  of 
the  batter.  If  it  is  ready,  drop  in  pieces  of  the  batter  as 
large  as  a  nut.  Fry  until  golden-brown  on  all  sides.  Re- 
move with  a  skimmer  to  a  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven, 
to  dry,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  sift  powdered  sugar  over 
them.  Pile  in  a  pyramid  on  a  cut  paper  and  serve  very  hot. 
They  should  be  round  and  very  light,  if  successful. 


COQUETTES. 

I  ounce  of  butter,  1  pint  of  flour, 

1  pint  of  boiling  water,  5  eggs. 

Put  the  water  in  the  saucepan,  and,  when  boiling,  remove 
from  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  flour,  mixing  well.  Stir  it  over 
the  fire  until  it  thickens  and  begins  to  leave  the  sides  of  the 
saucepan.  Remove  it,  beat  in  the  butter  and  the  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  very  thoroughly.  Have  ready  deep  boiling  lard. 
When  boiling,  drop  in  the  batter  by  bits  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
For  directions  for  frying,  see  Beignets  Souffles.  Fry  golden 
brown.  Remove  with  a  skimmer  to  a  piece  of  brown  paper 
in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  to  drain ;  sift  with  fine  sugar  and 
serve  in  a  pyramid  on  cut  paper.  The  batter  requires  a  great 
deal  of  beating,  both  before,  and  when,  the  eggs  are  in,  but 
(the  receipt  goes  on  to  say)  "the  coquettes  are,  so  beautiful 
and  delicious  that  one  is  repaid  for  the  trouble  of  making 
.them." 

N.  B. — This  batter  baked  in  spoonfuls  on  tin  makes  crusts 
for  Cream  Puffs. 


476  GOOD-LIVING. 

CREME  FRITE. 

i  pint  of  new  milk,  Lard, 

3  yolks  of  eggs,  i  gill  of  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  of  corn -starch,  Butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut, 

i  tablespoon  of  sifted  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

I  egg  for  dipping,  i  inch  of  stick-cinnamon, 

Cracker-dust. 

Blend  the  corn-starch  and  flour  with  a  little  cold  milk. 
Put  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  cinnamon  to  boil  in  a  farina- 
kettle.  When  it  boils,  stir  in  the  corn-starch  and  flour. 
Stir  and  boil  3  minutes,  or  until  the  flour  is  thoroughly- 
cooked.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
beaten  to  a  cream  with  the  sugar.  Return  to  the  fire,  and 
stir  over  boiling  water  for  a  few  minutes  until  thickened,  but 
do  not  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Take  out  the  cinnamon  ;  stir 
in  butter  and  vanilla.  Pour  \  an  inch  deep  into  a  shallow, 
buttered  dish  to  cool.  When  cold  and  firm,  cut  into  rounds 
or  squares  to  taste ;  dip  carefully  in  sifted  cracker-dust,  then 
in  egg  slightly  beaten,  then  again  in  cracker.  Fry  in  deep 
boiling  lard  (see  General  Directions  for  Frying).  Set  in  the 
oven  4  or  5  minutes  to  soften  the  cream  inside.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  serve  hot  in  a  pyramid  on  cut  paper. 

BATTER  FOR  FRUIT  FRITTERS. 

1  heaping  cup  of  flour,  I  or  2  tablespoons  of  brandy  or  rum 

I  tablespoon  of  olive  oil,  2  eggs, 

Cold  water. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  flour,  then  add  the  oil  and 
liquor  (substituting  wine  or  lemon-juice,  if  preferred)  ;  thin 
with  water,  to  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  Add  lastly 
the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Dip  the  fruit,  etc., 
into  this,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard.  The  batter  should  be  thick 
enough  to  coat  the  fruit  thoroughly  (see  receipts  for  Fritters). 

FRENCH  BA  TTER. 

4  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  2  gills  of  milk, 

I  level  tablespoon  of  olive  oil,  i  egg, 

Pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  egg,  white  and  yolk  together.  Add  milk,  salt, 
and  oil  to  it.     Mix  and  pour  this  upon  the  flour.     Blend 


PEACH  FRITTERS,  477 

perfectly  smooth.  It  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  rich 
cream.  Use  for  fruit  fritters,  dipping  the  fruit  into  it,  and 
boiling  in  lard  as  directed.  Apples  for  fritters  should  always 
be  scalded  for  5  minutes  before  dipping  in  the  batter,  or 
the  fruit  will  still  be  raw  when  the  batter  is  cooked.  These 
fritters  should  be  pale  golden-yellow. 

PLAIN  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS. 

1  pint  of  new  milk,  3  eggs, 

Pinch  of  salt,  1  pint  of  flour, 

1  teaspoon  of  baking-powder,  Flavoring  to  taste. 

Beat  the  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  apart.  Sift  the  salt  and 
baking-powder  with  the  flour  (the  baking-powder  may  be 
omitted,  if  preferred).  Stir  the  eggs  and  milk  into  the 
flour ;  flavor  to  taste ;  add,  lastly,  the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
to  a  stiff  froth.  Fry  by  the  teaspoonful  in  deep  boiling  lard 
(see  Beignets  Souffles).  When  golden-brown,  remove  with 
a  skimmer  to  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When 
dry,  sift  powdered  sugar  over;  serve  in  a  pyramid  on  cut 
paper.     If  well  made,  the  fritters  will  puff  very  much. 

PEACH  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS  DE  PECHES. 

Fresh  or  canned  peaches,  Brandy  or  rum, 

Grated  lemon-peel,  Sugar. 

Peel,  stone,  and  halve  the  peaches.  Sprinkle  them  with 
grated  lemon-peel,  sugar,  and  rum.  Cover  and  set  aside  in 
this  mixture  for  2  or  3  hours ;  then  drain.  Make  a  Batter 
for  Fruit  Fritters  (see  receipt),  using  the  liquor  from  the 
peaches.  At  the  last  moment,  add  to  the  batter  the  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  The  batter  should  be  thick 
enough  to  coat  the  fruit  thoroughly.  Have  ready  boiling  a 
saucepan  of  deep  lard.  Dip  the  peaches,  one  piece  at  a  time, 
into  the  batter,  and  drop  into  the  lard.  When  golden-brown, 
remove  with  a  skimmer  to  brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the 


478  GOOD-LIVING. 

oven  to  dry.     Sift  over  powdered  sugar.     Serve  in  a  pyramid 
on  cut  paper. 

N.  B. — Be  sure  the  lard  is  boiling  before  the  peaches  are 
put  in,  or  the  fritters  will  be  spoiled  (see  General  Directions 
for  Frying). 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS   DE  POMMES. 

Peel,  core,  and  slice  fine  tart  apples.  Scald  in  boiling  water 
until  about  half-cooked.  Then  drain  ;  dip  in  Batter  for  Fruit 
Fritters  (see  receipt) ;  finish  as  directed  for  Peach  Fritters. 
Or,  dip  the  fruit  in  French  Batter  (see  receipt),  and  finish 
as  above. 

STRA  WBERRY  FRITTERS. 

BEIGNETS   DE   FRAISES. 

I  heaping  cup  of  flour,  2  eggs, 

White  wine,  rum,  or  brandy,  Grated  peel  of  ^  a  lemon, 

I  tablespoon  of  salad  oil,  Large  strawberries. 

Mix  the  oil,  lemon-peel,  and  flour  together.  Beat  in  the 
yolks,  and  add  enough  white  wine  to  make  this  the  consist- 
ency of  very  thick  cream.  At  the  last  moment,  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Remove  the  stems 
from  very  large  strawberries  ;  drop  them  into  the  batter. 
Have  boiling  in  a  kettle,  lard  at  least  2  inches  deep.  When 
you  are  certain  that  it  is  boiling,  drop  the  mixture  by  the 
spoonful  into  the  lard,  allowing  I  strawberry  to  each  fritter. 
Fry  gold  color.  Remove  with  a  skimmer  to  brown  paper 
in  the  mouth  of  the  oven,  and  sift  sugar  over  them.  Serve 
in  a  pyramid  on  cut  paper. 

N.B. — Be  sure  the  lard  is  boiling  (see  General  Directions 
for  Frying). 

JOLLY  BOYS. 

I  pint  of  rye-meal,  2  tablespoons  of  molasses, 

1  cup  of  wheat-flour,  2  eggs, 

2  large  teaspoons  of  baking-powder,  i  gill  of  Indian  meal, 

or  i  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  i  saltspoon  of  salt, 

and  Yi  of  soda,  I  teaspoon  of  ground  cinnamon. 

Mix  well  together  the  meals,  flour,  salt,  cinnamon,  and  bak- 
ing-powder (or  cream  of  tartar).     Add  the  eggs  well  beaten 


OMELETTE   SOUFFLEE.  479 

together  ;  mix.  Add  molasses  and  enough  cold  water  to 
make  a  very  stiff  batter.  (If  you  use  soda,  it  should  now  be. 
dissolved  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water  and  beaten  into 
the  mixture.)  Have  ready  boiling  in  a  pot,  lard  3  inches  deep. 
When  you  have  tested  it  and  found  that  it  is  ready  (see  Gen- 
eral Directions  for  Frying),  drop  in  the  batter  by  the  small 
spoonful.  When  golden-brown,  remove  with  a  skimmer  to 
brown  paper  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  When  dry,  serve 
very  hot  with  Hard  or  other  sweet  Sauce  (see  receipts). 

FRUIT-FARINA. 

3  tablespoons  of  farina,  Sugar  to  taste, 

1  pint  of  ripe  berries  or  sliced  apples,  I  quart  of  new  milk. 

When  the  milk  is  boiling  in  a  farina-kettle,  sprinkle  the 
farina  into  it.  Sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste  ;  boil  about  30 
minutes,  stirring  frequently.  Then  add  the  berries  or  sliced 
apples,  and  boil  about  20  minutes  longer,  until  the  fruit 
is  cooked  tender.     Serve  very  cold  with  sugar  and  cream. 

OMELETTE   SOUFFLEE. 

4  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs, 

Pinch  of  salt.  Vanilla  to  taste. 

Put  a  pudding-dish  where  it  will  become,  gradually,  thor- 
oughly hot,  while  you  prepare  the  souffle.  If  a  plated  cover- 
ing is  used  to  send  the  dish  to  table,  heat  that  also.  Have 
the  oven  very  hot. 

Break  the  whites  and  yolks  in  separate  bowls.  Beat  the 
yolks  until  not  only  creamy,  but  pale  yellow.  Then  beat  into 
the  yolks  the  sifted  sugar  and  about  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla ; 
beat  again  until  smooth.  Now  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
white  of  eggs  (it  makes  them  beat  more  easily),  and  whip 
them  to  a  perfectly  stiff,  dry  froth.  A  second  person  should 
beat  the  yolks  while  the  whites  are  being  beaten.  When 
every  thing  is  ready,  beat  the  yolks  into  the  whites,  stirring 
just  as  little  as  possible,  taking  always  from  the  bottom  up- 
ward, only  enough  to  mix.  Have  the  heated  pudding-dish 
well  buttered.     Fill  not  more  than  f-full  of  the  mixture; 


480  GOOD-LIVING. 

dredge  the  top  with  powdered  sugar.  Set  in  a  quick  oven. 
It  will  require  only  about  6  minutes,  if  the  oven  is  right.  Do 
not  let  it  stand  an  instant.  It  must  be  waited  for,  rather 
than  wait.  To  be  successful,  the  details  must  be  strictly 
observed,  and  the  eggs  beaten  unsparingly. 

GINGER  SOUFFLE. 

4  ounces  of  potato  flour,  I  pint  of  new  milk, 

3  "        "  powdered  sugar,  4  ounces  of  butter, 

4  "        "  preserved  ginger,  6  eggs, 

Rind  of  1  lemon. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar ;  add  chopped  ginger,  grated 
lemon-peel,  and  flour  (or  corn-starch).  Stir  over  the  fire 
until  quite  smooth,  adding  the  milk,  which  should  be  hot, 
but  not  boiling.  Remove  from  the  fire ;  beat  in,  1  at  a  time, 
6  yolks  of  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix 
carefully  with  the  batter.  Fill  1  large,  or  several  small,  well- 
buttered  and  heated  souffle-cases  ;  set  in  a  quick  oven  ;  bake 
about  20  minutes,  and  serve  immediately  before  it  falls. 

ARROW-ROOT  SOUFFLE. 

I  pint  of  milk,  Sugar  to  taste, 

3  yolks  of  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  arrow-root, 

I  white  of  egg,  Juice  of  1  lemon, 

Grated  rind  of  yz  lemon. 

For  meringue : 

2  whites  of  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar. 

Boil  the  milk.  Mix  the  arrow-root  with  a  little  cold  water 
and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk.  Remove  from  the  fire  and, 
when  cool,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  lemon-juice  and  peel, 
sugar  to  taste,  and  lastly  the  beaten  white  of  I  egg.  Bake 
in  a  good  oven  20  to  30  minutes.  Beat  the  remaining  whites 
of  eggs  until  foamy ;  add  the  sugar,  and  beat  until  stiff  and 
glossy.  Spread  over  the  top  and  return  to  the  oven  for  2  or 
3  minutes  until  slightly  browned.     Serve  immediately. 


SPANISH   TOAST.  48 1 


TOT  FAIT 


3  tablespoons  of  flour,  Grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon, 

3  "  "  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs, 

2  tablespoons  of  milk. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  to  a  cream  ;  beat  in  sugar.  Add 
flour  and  beat  until  smooth ;  then  add  juice  and  rind  of 
lemon  ;  then  the  milk,  and  strain.  Beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Beat  them  into  the  batter  with  as  few  strokes  as  pos- 
sible. Have  ready  a  well-greased,  hot  pudding-dish.  Fill  it 
not  more  than  f-full  of  the  mixture ;  dredge  with  powdered 
sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  minutes.  Serve 
immediately,  or  it  will  fall. 

RICE  SOUFFL&. 

SOUFFLE   AU    RIZ. 

3  ounces  of  rice-flour,  I  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

6  eggs»  2  ounces  of  butter, 

2  gills  of  cream  5       "        "  sugar, 
Pinch  of  salt. 

Bring  the  cream  to  a  boil  in  the  farina-kettle.  Beat  to- 
gether butter,  sugar,  rice-flour,  and  yolks  of  eggs  until  very 
light,  then  stir  them  very  briskly  into  the  boiling  cream. 
Stir  without  ceasing  until  it  thickens.  Remove  ;  add  salt 
and  vanilla.  Add,  lastly,  the  whites  beaten  to  a  very  stiff 
froth ;  stir  them  carefully  into  the  mixture  and  set  away  to 
cool ;  serve  cold.  Or,  turn  the  mixture  into  a  well-greased, 
hot  pudding-dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  15  to  20  minutes. 
Serve  immediately,  or  it  will  fall. 

SPANISH  TOAST 

TORRIJAS. 

I  pint  of  milk,  1  egg, 

1  gill  of  rum  or  liqueur,  Powdered  sugar, 

Powdered  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  Lard  for  frying. 

Beat  the  egg  into  the  milk.     Mix,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Cut  strips  of  stale  bread  as  thick  as  your  finger,  twice  as 
31 


482  GOOD-LIVING. 

broad,  and  5  inches  long.  Having  removed  the  crusts,  dip 
the  bread  first  into  the  sweetened  milk,  then  into  the  rum. 
Drain.  Have  ready,  in  a  frying-pan,  deep  boiling  lard. 
When  certain  that  it  is  boiling  (see  General  Directions  for 
Frying),  lay  in  the  bread.  Fry  golden-brown.  Remove 
with  a  skimmer  to  brown  paper  in  the  oven.  When  dry, 
place  on  a  hot  dish,  2  and  2  at  right  angles.  Sift  powdered 
sugar  and  cinnamon  over  them,  and  serve  with  Custard 
Sauce  (see  receipt)  flavored  with  rum. 

QUEEN  ELIZABETH'S    TOAST. 

PAIN   PERDU. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Torrijas,  cutting  the  slices  the  same 
thickness,  but  larger,  and  omitting  the  rum.  Fry  in  butter, 
browning  both  sides.  Serve  with  mixed  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

PANCAKES. 
CREPES. 

1  egg,  4  ounces  of  sifted  flour. 

2^  gills  of  milk,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  egg,  yolk  and  white  together ;  add  it  and  the 
salt  to  the  milk,  then  pour  these  upon  the  flour  and  mix 
perfectly  smooth.  The  batter  must  be  no  thicker  than 
good  cream.  Have  a  small  frying-pan  very  hot  ;  grease  it 
thoroughly  with  butter  or  drippings.  Pour  in  batter  enough 
to  only  just  cover  the  bottom.  In  a  minute,  perhaps  less,  if 
the  pan  is  very  hot,  the  cake  can  be  turned.  This  part  is 
done  by  sleight  of  hand  by  very  experienced  cooks,  who  toss 
it,  catching  it  again  in  the  pan,  bringing  the  brown  side  up. 
This  is  not  recommended  to  beginners  ;  it  will  be  found 
safer,  if  slower,  to  use  the  cake-turner.  The  great  secret  of 
good  pancakes  is  to  have  them  as  thin  as  possible  and  very 
tender.  As  they  are  cooked,  pile  them  on  a  hot  plate.  When 
ready  to  serve,  spread  each  with  jelly  and  roll  it  up  ;  or 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  mixed,  and  roll.  Dish 
them  very  neatly  and  serve  very  hot. 


CURRANT  CHARLOTTE.  483 

APPLE   CHARLOTTE. 

CHARLOTTE   DE   POMMES. 

Butter  a  deep  pudding-dish.  Line  the  bottom  and  sides 
with  buttered  bread  cut  about  \  of  an  inch  thick.  Fill  the 
dish  with  sliced  apples  ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix 
together  I  gill  each  of  water  and  molasses.  Pour  this  over 
the  apples.  Sprinkle  with  I  gill  of  brown  sugar,  and  cover 
closely  with  slices  of  buttered  bread.  The  top  must  be  very 
even  and  smooth.  Cover  the  top  with  a  tin  pie-plate.  Bake 
in  a  very  moderate  oven  for  about  2  hours.  When  done, 
loosen  the  edges  with  a  knife,  and  turn  it  out  very  carefully 
on  a  dish.  Serve  hot  with  Custard  Sauce  flavored  with  rum, 
or  with  sugar  and  cream. 

PLE-PLANT  CHARLOTTE. 

1  pound  of  pie-plant,  1  pound  of  soft  sugar, 

Bread-crumbs,  or  slices  of  bread,  Butter. 

Peel  the  pie-plant  and  cut  it  into  pieces  1  inch  long.  But- 
ter a  pudding-dish.  Cover  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of 
crumbs ;  put  over  this  a  layer  of  pie-plant  covered  thickly 
with  sugar ;  then  another  layer  of  crumbs,  fruit,  and  sugar ; 
and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  dotting  the  last  layer  of 
crumbs  with  bits  of  butter.  The  bread  may  be  cut  in  thin 
slices  and  buttered ;  but  it  is  recommended  that  the  crumbs 
be  used.  Bake  very  slowly  for  1  hour  and  30  minutes. 
Serve  cold  with  cream. 

CHERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

CHARLOTTE   DE   CERISES. 

Proceed  as  above,  substituting  cherries  in  the  same  pro- 
portions. 

CURRANT  CHARLOTTE. 

CHARLOTTE   DE   GROSEILLES. 

Proceed  as  for  Pie-Plant  Charlotte,  substituting  currants 
in  the  same  proportions. 


484  GOOD-LIVING. 

RASPBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

CHARLOTTE   DE   FRAMBOISES. 
Proceed  as  for  Pie-Plant  Charlotte,  substituting  raspberries. 

GOOSEBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

Proceed  as  for  Pie-Plant  Charlotte,  substituting  goose- 
berries. 

STRAWBERRY  SARACEN. 

Strawberries,  Sugar, 

Slices  of  thin  toast,  Butter. 

Butter  the  toast  generously,  and  line  with  it  the  bottom 
and  sides  of  a  china  dish  which  can  be  set  in  the  oven.  The 
pieces  of  toast,  made  of  stale  bread  and  cut  quite  thin,  should 
be  very  well  dried  in  toasting ;  they  should  be  trimmed  to 
fit  into  the  dish  neatly.  Fill  the  remaining  space  with 
stemmed  strawberries,  packed  closely.  Sift  plenty  of  sugar 
over  and  among  the  berries,  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
30  minutes,  or  until  the  fruit  has  melted  a  good  deal,  and 
settled.  It  will  be  found  that  they  melt  away  so  much  that 
the  dish  must  not  only  be  packed  but  heaped,  or  it  will  not 
look  well  when  done.  Serve  very  cold  with  thick  cream. 
Delicious. 

RASPBERRY  SARACEN. 
Proceed  as  above,  substituting  raspberries. 

CHERRY   TOAST. 

CROUTE   AUX   CERISES. 

Make  thin  slices  of  very  dry  toast ;  butter  generously. 
Lay  the  toast  on  a  dish.  Put  in  a  saucepan  I  quart  of 
stemmed  cherries  with  f  to  1  pound  of  sugar  (according  to 
tartness)  and  1  gill  of  water.  Cover  and  stew  until  the  ber- 
ries are  very  tender.  Throw  the  hot  syrup  and  fruit  over 
the  toast  and  set  away.  Serve  very  cold  with  cream.  Simple, 
but  excellent. 


FRIAR'S  OMELET.  485 

RASPBERRY  TOAST. 

CROUTE   AUX   FRAMBOISES. 

Proceed  as  for  Cherry  Toast,  substituting  raspberries.  Or 
mix  equal  quantities  of  raspberries  and  currants,  using  a 
little  more  sugar. 

APRICOT  TOAST. 

CROUTE   AUX  ABRICOTS. 

Apricots,  Sugar, 

Butter,  Bread. 

Halve  the  apricots  and  remove  the  stones.  Place  each 
half,  with  the  inner  side  uppermost,  upon  a  thin  square  of 
bread  without  crust.  Lay  them  in  a  fire-proof  dish.  Put  a 
piece  of  butter  on  each ;  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  30 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done,  arrange  neatly 
on  a  glass  dish  with  a  piece  of  the  bread  under  each  piece 
of  apricot.  Pour  over  the  syrup  made  in  cooking,  and 
serve  cold,  with  rich  cream. 

Peaches,  pears,  and  plums  may  be  treated  in  the  same 
way. 

FRIARS  OMELET. 

7  large  apples,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  (level), 

1  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon      "       "         " 

1    "     "    bread-crumbs,  3  eggs, 

Lemon-juice. 

Peel,  quarter,  and  stew  the  apples  as  for  sauce,  with  only 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  prevent  scorching.  When 
cooked  and  still  hot,  press  through  a  colander ;  stir  in  the 
teaspoonful  of  butter  and  the  sugar.  Set  aside  to  cool. 
Melt  the  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan  ;  stir  the 
bread-crumbs  in  the  butter  until  it  is  absorbed  and  the 
crumbs  are  a  golden-brown.  Butter  a  plain  pudding-mould  ; 
sprinkle  the  bottom  and  sides  with  as  many  of  the  bread- 
crumbs as  will  adhere.     Beat  the  eggs  together  until  light. 


486  GOOD-LIVING. 

Stir  them  into  the  apple-sauce  ;  add  lemon-juice  to  taste ; 
mix  well  and  fill  the  mould  with  this,  taking  care  not  to  rub 
off  the  crumbs.  Sprinkle  the  top  thickly  with  bread-crumbs. 
Bake  for  20  to  30  minutes  in  a  moderately-quick  oven. 
Loosen  the  edges  with  a  knife  and  turn  out  carefully  on  a 
flat  dish.  Serve  hot  with  Rum  or  Brandy  Sauce  in  a  sauce- 
boat. 

N.  B. — The  mould  should  be  closely  packed  with  the 
mixture. 

APPLE  SPONGE. 

MOUSSE   AUX   POMMES. 

]4.  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  2  gills  of  boiling  water, 

1  lemon,  grated  rind,  I  pound  of  apples, 

2  lemons,  juice,  3  eggs, 

I  pound  of  sugar. 

Boil  together  sugar  and  water  until  clear.  Skim.  Peel, 
core,  and  slice  the  apples.  Put  them  into  the  syrup  and 
stew  until  tender.  Meanwhile  cover,  the  gelatine  with  cold 
water  and  let  it  soak  1  to  2  hours.  When  the  apples  are 
done,  stir  the  gelatine  into  them  until  dissolved  ;  remove 
from  the  fire  and  press  all  through  a  sieve.  Stir  in  the  rind 
and  juice  of  the  lemon.  Set  away  until  cold  and  beginning 
to  stiffen.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  stir 
the  apples  over  ice  until  perfectly  smooth,  then  stir  in  the 
whites  of  eggs  and  continue  to  stir  until  thick.  Rinse  out 
a  mould  with  cold  water.  Fill  with  the  mixture  and  set 
away  to  harden.  Prepare  a  Custard  Sauce  (see  receipt) 
flavored  with  rum  or  vanilla.  Turn  out  the  sponge  ;  pour 
the  custard  around  it,  and  serve  very  cold. 

PEACH  SPONGE. 

MOUSSE  AUX    PECHES. 

Proceed  exactly  as  for  Apple  Sponge,  substituting  peaches 
in  the  same  proportions. 


ORANGE   SALAD.  487 

BAKED  QUINCES. 

Core  ripe  apple-quinces  of  uniform  size.  Place  them  in  a 
baking-pan.  Put  the  cores  in  the  pan.  Fill  the  spaces  left 
by  the  cores  with  sugar,  adding  to  the  pan  about  I  gill  (for 
8  quinces).  Fill  the  pan  with  boiling  water  to  £  the  height 
of  the  quinces.  Cover  with  an  inverted  pan.  Set  in  the 
oven  for  30  minutes.  Then  uncover  and  continue  to  bake 
until  the  quinces  are  tender,  which  will  require  perhaps  an 
hour  or  more.  The  oven  should  be  moderately  hot.  When 
tender,  dish  the  quinces.  Set  the  pan  over  the  fire,  and  boil 
briskly  for  a  few  minutes,  adding  more  sugar,  if  not  sweet 
enough  ;  strain  the  syrup  over  the  fruit,  and  set  away.  Serve 
cold  with  cream.     Recommended. 

FRIED  BANANAS. 

BANANES   FRITES. 

Having  peeled  the  bananas,  cut  them  in  two,  lengthwise. 
Have  ready  hot  butter  in  the  frying-pan.  Lay  in  the 
bananas.  Sift  with  powdered  sugar.  Fry  brown  one  side ; 
then  turn  ;  sift  again  with  sugar ;  when  the  second  side  is 
browned,  dish  neatly  and  serve  hot. 

ORANGE  SALAD. 

SALADE   D'ORANGES. 

4  oranges,  I  gill  of  Jamaica  rum, 

Powdered  sugar. 

Select  very  juicy  oranges  (Indian  Rivers  are  best).  Peel 
and  slice  in  thin  slices.  Sift  sugar  over  each  layer  in  a  glass 
dish  ;  pour  the  rum  over  all.  Cover,  and  set  away  for  2  hours 
in  a  cool  place.  Baste  from  time  to  time.  Or,  the  oranges 
may  be  washed  and  sliced  without  peeling ;  then  dressed  as 
above. 


488  GOOD-LIVING. 

APPLE  AND  ORANGE  SALAD. 

3  oranges,  2    apples, 

I  gill  of  rum  Powdered  sugar. 

Peel  and  shave  the  apples  in  very  thin  slices ;  mix  with 
the  oranges,  and  finish  as  directed  for  Orange  Salad. 

PLE-PLANT  OR  RHUBARB. 

Draw  off  the  outer  skin  and  fibres,  beginning  at  the  top. 
Use  a  silver  knife.  Cut  the  pie-plant  in  2-inch  lengths.  Lay 
it  in  a  fire-proof  bake-dish  ;  sprinkle  soft  sugar  over  it,  allow- 
ing about  pound  to  pound.  Heap  the  dish  with  fruit,  as  it 
will  shrink  a  great  deal.  Set  the  dish  in  a  moderately-quick 
oven,  and  bake  for  about  30  minutes,  or  until  perfectly 
tender,  and  surrounded  by  a  rich  syrup.  If  the  oven  is  too 
hot,  cover  with  a  tin  pie-plate,  as  the  pie-plant  must  not 
brown.  It  may  be  served,  when  cold,  in  a  glass  dish,  plain  ; 
or  the  dish  may  be  lined  with  macaroons  and  filled  with  the 
pie-plant.  This  mode  of  preparing  the  pie-plant,  when  once 
tested,  will  prove  so  satisfactory  that  it  is  safe  to  say  that  it 
will  be  adopted  in  preference  to  stewing.  Should  the  old 
way  be  preferred,  however,  scald  the  pie-plant  first  and  throw 
the  water  off  before  adding  the  sugar.  This  does  away  with 
a  certain  amount  of  the  extreme  acidity. 

TO  PREPARE  STRA  WBERRLES  FOR    TABLE. 

Do  not  wash  them  unless  they  absolutely  require  it.  If, 
however,  you  are  obliged  to,  do  not  stem  them  until  after 
washing  and  draining  thoroughly.  Do  not  sugar  them  until 
they  are  served  at  table.  If  washing  is  necessary,  fill  a  large 
bowl  with  cold  water  ;  put  the  strawberries  in  a  colander,  and 
dip  the  colander  2  or  3  times  into  the  bowl.  Shake  out  well, 
and  stand  colander  and  berries  near  the  ice  until  wanted. 
Then  stem  them.  In  France,  handsome  extra-large  berries 
are  always  served  in  a  pyramid,  with  the  stems  on.  They 
are  dipped  in  sugar,  one  by  one,  and  eaten  from  the  stem. 


TO  PREPARE  PINE-APPLE  FOR  TABLE.  489 

TO  PREPARE  PINE-APPLE  FOR  TABLE. 

Be  sure  the  pine  is  perfectly  ripe.  Pare  it  from  the  top 
down.  Remove  the  eyes.  Hold  the  top  in  the  left  hand, 
and  with  a  fork  held  in  the  right,  scoop  the  fruit  off  from  the 
core  in  pieces  about  2  inches  square.  Place  these  in  a  glass 
dish  ;  sift  with  powdered  sugar,  and  set  away  in  the  ice-box 
until  required.  Never  cut  a  pine-apple  with  a  knife  in  slices 
through  the  core ;  it  is  much  less  digestible,  and  its  flavor  is 
injured  by  contact  with  the  knife.  When  properly  prepared, 
core  and  top-leaves  should  remain  in  one  piece. 


ICE-CREAMS,  WATER-ICES,  ETC. 

GENERAL  DIRECTIONS   FOR   FREEZING   ICE-CREAMS,  WATER- 
ICES,    ETC. 

The  essentials  for  making  good  plain  (Philadelphia)  cream 
are:  the  best  cream,  ripe,  juicy  fruit,  and  granulated  sugar. 
Avoid,  for  this  class  of  ice-cream,  all  thickening,  whether 
corn-starch,  arrow-root,  or  gelatine.  These  latter  are  neces- 
sary in  many  of  the  fancy  creams,  but  not  for  the  above.  It 
is  best  to  scald,  not  boil  the  cream,  the  sugar  being  dissolved 
in  it  while  hot.  The  flavoring,  whether  fruit  or  other,  will  be 
stronger  if  added  after  the  first  freezing.  Avoid  freezing  the 
cream  raw,  as  it  is  never  as  smooth,  but  acquires  a  harshness 
and  a  snowy  taste ;  it  increases  much  more  in  bulk. 

Procure  the  best  of  freezers,  such  as  the  "  White  Moun- 
tain "  ;  see  that  all  is  in  perfect  readiness  before  beginning 
the  operation.  For  a  4-quart  freezer,  allow  about  10  pounds 
of  ice  and  2  quarts  of  rock-salt.  The  ice  must  be  pounded 
finer  at  the  commencement  of  the  operation  than  later  on. 
Set  in  the  tin  cylinder ;  fill  %-  or  at  most  f-full  of  the  mixture, 
allowing  always  ample  room  for  it  to  swell  as  it  freezes.  Cover. 
Adjust  the  crank.  Turn  to  see  that  all  is  right.  Now  put  in 
the  ice  3  inches  deep,  then  salt  1  inch  deep,  and  so  on,  in  lay- 
ers, to  the  top  of  the  can.  Now  turn  steadily  and  not  too 
rapidly,  until  the  crank  works  very  hard.  This  should  take 
about  25  minutes.  It  is  not  well  to  freeze  it  too  fast.  Now 
unscrew  the  crank  ;  wipe  the  lid  ;  remove  it  and  the  dasher. 
With  a  long  flat  piece  of  wood  (spatula),  scrape  down  the  in- 
ner sides,  and  beat  vigorously  for  10  minutes.  This  makes 
490 


V AXILLA   ICE-CREAM  tVlTIf  EGGS.  49 1 

the  cream  smooth.  Now  replace  the  cover  and  plug  up  the 
dasher-hole.  In  all  this  be  very  careful  that  no  salt  creeps 
in.  Drain  off  the  water  from  the  pail  and  re-pack  with  salt 
and  coarser  ice.  Cover  with  a  thick  piece  of  carpet  and  set 
away  for  2  hours.  This  last  makes  the  cream  mellow.  Or, 
the  cream  at  this  stage  may  be  packed  in  a  mould ;  the 
mould  placed  in  an  ordinary  pail,  which  fill  with  layers  of  salt 
and  ice ;  cover  and  set  away  as  above. 

N.  B. — Be  careful  that  the  mould-lid  is  closely  fitted,  or 
the  salt  may  penetrate. 

PHILADELPHIA    VANILLA  ICE-CREAM. 

1  quart  of  cream,  J^  pound  of  sugar, 

>,  1  vanilla  bean  or  2  tablespoons  of  extract  of  vanilla. 

Put  the  sugar,  1  pint  of  cream,  and  the  bean,  split  in  \,  into 
a  farina-kettle  ;  boil  and  stir  constantly  for  10  minutes.  Re- 
move from  the  fire  ;  strain  ;  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold, 
add  extract  of  vanilla  (if  you  use  this),  and  the  remaining 
cream,  and  freeze.  Finish  according  to  General  Directions 
for  Freezing. 

VANILLA  ICE-CREAM  WITH  EGGS. 

CREME  GLACEE  A  LA  VANILLE. 

8  eggs,  yolks  only,  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water, 

1^2  pints  of  rich  milk,  ^  pound  of  sugar, 

I  tablespoon  of  vanilla-bean  powder,  X  box  of  gelatine, 

1  pint  of  cream,  whipped. 

Cream  together  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  very  light. 
Put  the  milk  in  a  farina-kettle  on  the  fire  with  the  vanilla. 
Bring  it  to  a  boil ;  remove  it  and  stir  by  degrees  into  the 
eggs  and  sugar,  stirring  briskly.  Set  the  farina-kettle  with 
the  custard  over  hot  water  on  the  fire,  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  thickens  slightly.  Do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  in  the  gelatine,  which  has 
soaked  for  2  hours  in  the  cold  water.    Stir.    The  heat  of  the 


492  GOOD-LIVING. 

custard  should  be  sufficient  to  melt  it ;  if  not,  stir  it  over  the 
fire  until  dissolved.  Strain  the  custard  into  a  bowl,  and  set 
aside  to  cool  thoroughly  before  freezing.  When  cold,  have 
ready  freezer,  salt,  and  ice.  Pour  the  custard  into  the  tin 
cylinder  ;  pack  with  ice  and  salt  and  turn  steadily  (see  Gen- 
eral Directions  for  Ice-Creams).  When  the  crank  will  scarcely 
turn  any  more,  wipe  off  the  top  of  the  cylinder  very  care- 
fully, scrape  down  the  cream  from  the  sides,  and  pour  in  the 
Whipped  Cream  (which  has  been  first  chilled  and  then  whipped 
over  a  pan  of  ice,  see  receipt).  Close  the  cylinder  and  freezer, 
being  very  careful  that  no  salt  gets  inside.  Turn  again  un- 
til too  stiff,  then  carefully  remove  the  dasher  ;  scrape  all  the 
ice-cream  down  again  ;  smooth  it  over ;  re-cover ;  put  a  stop- 
per in  the  hole  in  the  tin  cover  ;  pack  with  more  salt  and 
ice  ;  cover  with  carpet  and  set  away  for  2  or  3  hours  ;  or 
pack  in  a  mould  in  the  same  way,  filling  the  mould  very 
full,  and  packing  it  in  a  pail  of  ice  and  salt. 


VANILLA    ICE-CREAM. 

CREME  GLACEE  A  LA  VANILLE. 

2  quarts  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  flour, 

3  cups     of  sugar,  Pinch  of  salt, 

3  yolks    of  eggs,  %        6  whites  of  eggs, 

i  quart   of  cream,  3  teaspoons  of  vanilla 

I  teaspoon  lemon. 

Boil  the  milk  and  thicken  with  the  flour,  which  has  been 
rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk.  When  smooth,  add 
the  sugar  and  salt.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and  stir  carefully 
into  the  3  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Return  for  1  minute  or  2 
to  the  fire,  stirring  constantly,  but  do  not  boil.  Set  away  to 
cool.  Meanwhile,  have  the  cream  standing  on  ice.  Whip  it 
and  the  6  whites  of  eggs  separately,  to  a  thick  froth.  When 
the  first  mixture  is  cold,  add  the  flavoring,  and,  just  at  the 
moment  of  freezing,  add  the  beaten  cream  and  eggs  (see 
General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 


PHILADELPHIA    COFFEE  ICE-CREAM.  493 

CHOCOLA  TE  ICE-CREAM. 

CREME    GLACEE   AU    CHOCOLAT. 

3  pints  of  whole  new  milk,  6  eggs, 

I  pint    of  cream,  whipped,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

6  ounces  Maillard's  or  Huyler's  chocolate. 

Put  the  milk  into  the  farina-kettle  and  bring  it  to  a  boil. 
Grate  the  chocolate  into  a  bowl.  Add  to  it  the  eggs  and 
sugar,  and  beat  until  well  mixed.  When  the  milk  boils, 
stir  it  gently  into  the  eggs,  etc.,  stirring  rapidly.  When  the 
chocolate  is  well  melted,  turn  all  back  into  the  farina-kettle ; 
place  on  the  fire  over  hot  water,  and  stir  until  the  custard 
thickens  a  little,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  Strain  the  custard 
into  a  bowl  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  cold,  turn  it  into  the 
freezer  ;  pack  as  directed  in  General  Directions  for  Freezing 
Ice-Creams,  and  when  quite  stiff,  carefully  open  the  freezer 
and  put  in  the  cream,  which  has  been  whipped  with  a  Dover 
egg-beater  in  a  bowl  over  a  pan  of  cracked  ice.  Shut  the 
freezer  ;  turn  again  until  very  stiff  ;  then  pack  the  ice-cream 
in  a  mould,  filling  it  very  closely  ;  put  the  cover  on  tightly ; 
cover  the  crack  with  a  strip  of  muslin  dipped  in  butter,  to 
keep  out  the  salt ;  pack  in  a  pail  with  salt  and  ice  ;  cover 
with  a  piece  of  carpet,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  1  or  2 
hours.     This  ice-cream  is  very  reliable,  and  delicious. 

PHILADELPHIA   COFFEE  ICE-CREAM. 

1  quart  of  cream,  ^  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 

4  ounces  of  Mocha  or  3  of  Java  coffee. 

Grind  the  coffee  coarsely  ;  put  it  with  1  pint  of  cream  in 
the  farina-kettle  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  stand  without  quite 
coming  to  a  boil  for  10  minutes  ;  then  strain  and  press  it  in 
a  fine  sieve  until  all  the  strength  is  pressed  out.  Add  the 
sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  When  perfectly  cold,  add  the 
remaining  pint  of  cream,  and  freeze  (see  General  Directions 
for  Freezing  Ice-Creams).  When  frozen,  pack  and  stand  2 
hours  as  directed. 


494  GOOD-LIVING. 

PARFAIT  A  U  CAFE. 

I  quart  of  thick  cream,  I  gill  of  strong  black  coffee, 

^  cup  of  powdered  sugar. 

Mix  the  coffee,  sugar,  and  cream  ;  whip  to  a  froth.  As 
the  froth  appears,  skim  it  off  to  a  colander  to  drain.  What- 
ever drains  off  may  be  whipped  again.  Use  a  Dover  egg- 
beater,  and  stand  the  cream  in  a  pan  of  cracked  ice  while 
you  beat  it.  This  will  greatly  facilitate  the  whipping. 
When  all  is  done,  turn  it  into  an  ice-cream  mould  ;  press 
the  lid  down  tightly  ;  bind  the  joint  with  a  strip  of  muslin 
dipped  in  melted  butter  (to  keep  out  the  salt)  ;  pack  in  salt 
and  ice,  the  layers  of  ice  being  3  inches,  and  salt  1  inch,  deep. 
Cover  with  a  piece  of  carpet  and  set  in  a  cold  place  for  3 
hours  or  more.  Turn  out  and  serve.  Renew  the  ice  if 
necessary. 

BISQUE  ICE-CREAM. 

1  quart  of  rich  cream,  ^  pound  of  macaroons, 

2  lady-fingers,  ^       "       "  sugar, 

4  kisses,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

1  teaspoon  of  caramel,  5  tablespoons  of  sherry. 

Rub  the  stale  macaroons,  kisses,  and  lady-fingers  through 
a  colander.  Put  I  pint  of  cream  in  the  farina-kettle  ;  when 
hot,  add  to  it  the  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved.  Remove  from 
the  fire ;  when  cool,  add  the  remainder  of  the  cream,  and 
strain  into  the  freezer.  When  frozen  nearly  stiff,  add  the 
vanilla,  caramel,  pounded  cakes,  and  5  tablespoonfuls  of 
sherry.  Beat  until  perfectly  smooth  (see  General  Directions 
for  Freezing  Ice-Creams).  Re-pack  as  directed,  and  let  stand 
2  hours  or  more  in  a  cold  place  before  using. 

BROWN-BREAD  ICE-CREAM. 

3  slices  of  Boston  brown  bread,  1  quart  of  cream, 

}i  pound  of  sugar. 

Toast  the  bread  in  a  cool  oven,  then  roll  and  sift  it 
through  a  fine  sieve.     Put   1    pint  of  cream  in  the  farina- 


FROZEN  PINE-APPLE    CREAM.  49$ 

kettle  on  the  fire  ;  add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Add  the  remaining  cream  and  set  away  to  cool.  When 
cold,  freeze  according  to  General  Directions  for  Freezing 
Ice-Creams.  When  frozen,  beat  in  the  brown  bread  ;  remove 
the  dasher,  and  re-pack  as  directed.  Set  away  2  hours.  Bis- 
cuit Ice-Cream  is  made  in  the  same  manner,  substituting  6 
ounces  of  sponge  cake  for  the  brown  bread. 


CARAMEL  ICE-CREAM. 

CREME  GLACEE  AU  CARAMEL. 

X]4.  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  3  quarts  of  cream, 

I  pint  of  boiling  milk. 

Melt  the  sugar  in  the  frying-pan  until  liquid,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Do  not  let  it  scorch  or  get  too  dark.  Pour  the 
caramel  into  the  boiling  milk  by  degrees,  mixing  well. 
When  cold,  strain  it  into  the  cream  and  freeze  (see  General 
Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams).  One  pint  of  the  cream 
may  be  whipped  and  added  as  directed. 

FROZEN  PEACHES  AND   CREAM. 

PECHES  GLACEES  A  LA  CREME. 

Select  ripe  peaches ;  peel  and  mash  to  a  pulp.  Make  them 
very  sweet,  perhaps  not  quite  as  much  as  pound  for  pound  of 
fruit  and  sugar,  but  they  must  be  very  sweet,  as  freezing 
destroys  much  of  the  effect  of  the  sugar.  Allow  1  pint  of 
cream  to  each  pint  of  peach-pulp  and  sugar,  and  freeze  (see 
General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 

FROZEN  PINE-APPLE   CREAM. 

CREME   GLACEE   A   L' ANANAS. 

Select  a  ripe  pine-apple  ;  pare  ;  remove  the  eyes  ;  grate  and 
proceed  exactly  as  for  Frozen  Peaches  and  Cream. 


496  GOOD-LIVING. 

FROZEN  STRA  WBERRIES  AND  CREAM. 

FRAISES   GLACEES   A   LA   CREME. 

Mash  the  strawberries,  stemmed.  Allow  1  pound  of  sugar 
to  1  quart  of  fruit.  When  thoroughly  mashed,  add  I  quart 
of  cream  and  freeze  (see  General  Directions  for  Freezing 
Ice-Creams). 

PINE-APPLE  MOUSSE. 
MOUSSE  A  l'ananas. 

1  pine-apple,  3  level  teaspoons  of  vanilla, 

Powdered  sugar,  3  tablespoons  of  Jamaica  rum, 

3  times  the  bulk  of  fruit  in  whipped  cream. 

Peel  the  pine-apple.  Cut  a  few  slices  of  it  ;  lay  them  in  a 
bowl,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar  and  a  very  little  rum. 
Cover  and  set  away  until  wanted.  Grate  the  rest  of  the 
pine-apple  into  an  earthenware  bowl.  Add  to  it  the  vanilla 
and  rum  and  sufficient  sugar  to  make  it  very  sweet.  Set  the 
bowl  over  ice  and  stir  until  very  cold.  Meanwhile  have 
ready  beaten  over  a  pan  of  ice  the  cream,  which  should  then 
equal  3  times  the  bulk  of  fruit.  Fill  an  ice-cream  mould 
with  the  mixture.  Fit  the  cover  on  closely  ;  cover  the  joint 
with  a  strip  of  muslin  dipped  in  melted  butter,  to  keep  out 
the  salt ;  pack  in  salt  and  ice  ;  the  layers  of  ice  being  3  inches, 
and  salt  1  inch,  deep.  Cover  with  a  carpet  and  set  away  in  a 
cold  place  for  three  hours  at  least.  When  ready  to  serve, 
turn  out  the  cream  ;  place  around  it  the  slices  of  pine-apple 
and  its  syrup,  and  serve. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE-CREAM. 

CREME   GLACEE   A   LA   FRAISE. 

I  quart  of  cream,  1%  quarts  berries,  stemmed, 

1  pound  of  sugar. 

Put  I  pint  of  cream  and  \  a  pound  of  sugar  in  the  farina- 
kettle  on  the  fire.     When  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  set  aside  to 


FROZEN  APPLE  PUDDING.  497 

cool.  Put  the  remaining  £  of  the  sugar  over  the  berries  ; 
mash  and  set  aside  for  I  hour.  Then  press  through  a  sieve. 
Add  the  remaining  cream  to  the  scalded  cream,  and  freeze 
(see  General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams).  When 
frozen,  stir  in  the  fruit-juice  ;  beat  until  smooth,  and  finish 
according  to  same  directions. 

PINE-APPLE  ICE-CREAM. 

CREME   GLACEE   A   L'ANANAS. 

i  quart  of  cream,  i  large  pine-apple, 

I  pound  of  sugar,  i  lemon,  juice  only. 

Put  I  pint  of  the  cream  with  £  of  the  sugar  in  the  farina- 
kettle  on  the  fire  ;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Pare  the  pine-apple,  re- 
moving the  eyes  and  core.  Grate  the  rest  ;  mix  it  with  the 
remaining  sugar  ;  stir  until  it  dissolves.  Add  the  remaining 
pint  of  cream  to  the  scalded  cream,  and  freeze  (see  General 
Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams).  Add  the  lemon-juice  to 
the  pine-apple,  and  when  the  cream  is  frozen,  stir  the  fruit 
into  it.  Beat  thoroughly  and  finish  as  directed.  If  canned 
pine-apple  is  used,  add  the  lemon-juice  to  it ;  add  all  to  the 
cream  and  freeze. 

FROZEN  APPLE  PUDDING. 

24  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  quartered,  %  pint  of  preserved  or  candied  cherries, 
^  pint  of  apricot  jam,  %  pound  of  sugar, 

^  pound  raisins,  stoned,  1  orange  rind,  grated, 

2  ounces  of  almonds,  blanched,  1  ounce  of  citron,  sliced, 

1  pint  of  cream,  whipped,  1  gill  of  curacoa, 

1  gill  of  maraschino. 

Stew  the  apples  until  tender.  Mix  with  them  the  orange- 
rind  and  apricot  (or  peach)  jam,  also  the  sugar.  Mash  them 
through  a  coarse  sieve  ;  freeze.  Simmer  the  raisins  for  a  few 
minutes  in  a  little  sugar  and  water.  Drain,  and  add  these, 
with  the  almonds  shredded,  the  cherries,  and  citron,  to  the 
apples,  when  the  latter  are  partly  frozen.  Add  the  curagoa 
32 


490  GOOD-LIVING. 

and  maraschino  when  the  mixture  is  quite  frozen.  When  the 
crank  turns  very  hard,  add  the  whipped  cream.  Turn  a  little 
longer,  then  fill  a  mould  as  described,  and  finish  according  to 
General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams.  When  ready, 
turn  out  of  the  mould,  and  serve  with  a  Sauce  of  Whipped 
Cream. 

PLUM-PUDDING  GLACE. 

1  tablespoon  of  arrow-root,  I  quart  of  milk, 

2  ounces  stoned  raisins,  %  pound  brandied  peaches, 
2        "       currants,  well  washed,  I  quart  cream, 

2       "      citron,  chopped,  yi  pound  chocolate, 

2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs, 

3  whites  of  eggs,  or  whipped  cream  for  sauce. 

Boil  the  milk  ;  dissolve  the  chocolate  in  it.  Rub  the  arrow- 
root up  with  a  little  cold  milk  or  water,  and  stir  in.  When 
thickened,  stir  in  very  carefully  the  2  eggs  mixed  smooth 
with  a  few  drops  of  cold  water.  Stir  and  set  aside  to  get 
cold.  Add  the  fruit  and  flavorings.  Whip  the  cream  and 
add  the  sugar  to  it.  At  the  moment  of  freezing,  add  this  to 
the  chocolate.  Pack  in  a  mould  (see  General  Directions  for 
Freezing  Ice-Creams).  Serve  with  Whipped  Cream  Sauce 
(see  receipt). 

N.  B. — In  putting  the  frozen  pudding  into  the  mould,  be 
very  cautious  not  to  let  a  particle  of  salt  get  into  it.  Cover 
it  tightly  and  set  in  a  bucket  with  ice  and  salt  until  used. 

NESSELRODE  PUDDING. 

Sponge-cake,  2  even  tablespoons  of  gelatine, 

Candied,  brandied,  and  preserved  I  quart    chocolate   custard  (see   Boiled 

fruits,  raisins,  marrons  glaces,  Custard). 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk  for  I  hour  ;  remove 
the  crust  and  cut  the  cake  (a  baker's  sponge-cake)  in  slices 
about  \  an  inch  thick.  Trim  them  evenly.  Soak  them  in  a 
little  sherry  wine.  Fit  a  layer  of  this  in  the  bottom  of  a  tin 
ice-cream  mould  (be  sure  the  cover  fits  well).  On  this  cake 
lay  a  layer  of  mixed  fruits,  using  preserved,  candied,  and 


ALASKA    OR  ROASTED  ICE-CREAM.  499 

brandied  fruits  of  any  kind,  raisins,  and  marrons  glacis.  Put 
the  fruit  in  bit  by  bit,  carefully.  Cover  this  with  cake,  leav- 
ing a  space  at  the  sides,  between  the  cake  and  the  mould ; 
repeat  this  until  the  mould  is  nearly  filled.  Have  ready  the 
custard  prepared  according  to  the  receipt  given  for  Boiled 
Custard.  When  it  is  boiling  hot,  dissolve  the  gelatine  in  it ; 
strain  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold,  pour  the  custard 
into  the  mould  very  carefully  ;  fill  the  mould  not  quite  full ; 
fit  the  cover  closely ;  seal  the  crack  with  a  strip  of  muslin 
dipped  in  melted  butter.  Set  in  a  tub  of  ice  and  salt ;  the 
ice  being  3  inches,  the  salt  1  inch,  deep.  Cover  with  a  carpet 
and  set  in  a  cold  place  about  6  hours.  See  that  the  ice  is 
kept  over  it  ;  renew  if  necessary.  When  ready,  turn  out  of 
the  mould  and  serve  with  Whipped  Cream  Sauce. 

FROZEN  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

I  pint  of  rich  milk,  1  pint  of  cut  peaches  or  ripe  berries, 

1     "     "  rich  cream,  whipped,         3  eggs,  yolks  only, 
1%  cups  of  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs  well  together  with  the  sugar.  Bring  the 
milk  to  a  boil ;  stir  it  carefully  into  the  eggs  and  sugar. 
Return  it  to  the  kettle  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens 
slightly  ;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  curdle.  Set  the  custard 
aside  to  cool,  then  freeze  as  directed  (see  General  Directions 
for  Freezing  Ice-Creams).  When  partly  frozen,  add  the 
whipped  cream.  Turn  a  little  longer,  then  stir  in  the  fruit. 
Pack  in  a  mould. 

ALASKA,  OR  ROASTED  ICE-CREAM. 

Use  the  lower  half  of  a  round  sponge-cake  as  the  base ; 
upon  this  place  a  small,  very  solidly-frozen  form  of  ice-cream. 
Cover  this  thickly  with  a  very  stiff  meringue  of  sugar  and 
white  of  egg.  Sprinkle  with  sugar.  Heat  a  salamander,  or, 
the  kitchen  shovel,  red-hot,  and  hold  it  sufficiently  close  to 
the  meringue  to  brown  it  on  all  sides.  This  gives  the  ap- 
pearance of  having  been  roasted,  and  at  the  same  time  the 


500  GOOD-LIVING. 

ice-cream  remains  perfectly  frozen.  The  uninitiated  are 
quite  convinced  that  it  is  roasted,  and  are  much  amazed 
at  this  culinary  curiosity. 

ICED  PUDDING. 

4  eggs>  yolks  only,  4  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

I  pint  of  boiled  milk,  y2  pint  of  cream,  whipped, 

1  gill  of  maraschino,  Canned  or  dried  fruit. 

Make  a  Boiled  Custard  (see  receipt)  with  the  eggs,  milk, 
and  sugar  ;  flavor  with  vanilla  to  taste.  Freeze  the  custard 
in  the  usual  way  (see  General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice- 
Creams).  When  nearly  frozen,  add  either  8  ounces  of  can- 
died fruit,  mixed  in  equal  parts,  or  I  ounce  candied  citron, 
sliced,  2  ounces  of  currants  washed  and  dried,  2  ounces  of 
raisins,  stoned  and  chopped.  Cover  again  and  freeze  for  a  few 
minutes  longer,  then  add  the  cream.  The  maraschino  is  a 
good  addition,  but  not  indispensable.  It  should  be  put  in 
with  the  fruit.  Pack  in  a  mould  and  finish  as  by  General 
Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams.  Serve  with  a  Sauce  of 
Whipped  Cream. 

LEMON  WATER-ICE. 

GLACE  AU   CITRON. 

4  large  juicy  lemons,  I  orange, 

i%  pounds  of  sugar,  I  quart  of  water. 

Peel  the  thin  yellow  rind  from  3  lemons  and  the  orange ; 
put  it,  the  sugar  and  the  water  in  a  saucepan  ;  bring  to  a 
boil,  and  boil  for  5  minutes.  Set  away  to  cool.  Squeeze  the 
juice  from  the  lemons  and  orange  ;  strain  it  into  the  syrup 
when  cold.  Strain  the  whole  into  the  freezer,  and  freeze. 
Turn  until  stiff  ;  remove  the  dasher  ;  scrape  down  the  water- 
ice.  Cover  it  securely.  Drain  off  the  water ;  re-pack  with 
salt  and  ice  in  layers  of  3  inches  ice  and  1  inch  salt.  Cover 
with  carpet.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place  for  2  hours.  Or 
pack  in  a  mould,  following  the  same  directions.  A  little 
while  before  re-packing,  may  be  added  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  to  a  very  stiff  froth  ;  freeze  again,  then  re-pack. 


FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES.  501 

RASPBERRY  ICE. 

GLACE   A   LA   FRAMBOISE. 

1  quart  of  red  raspberries,  1  quart  of  water, 
Juice  of  2  lemons,  1  pound  of  sugar. 

Add  the  sugar  and  lemon-juice  to  the  berries  ;  stir  and  set 
aside  for  1  hour.  Press  through  a  sieve  ;  add  the  water. 
Freeze  as  directed  for  Lemon  Water-Ice.  The  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs  may  be  added.     See  above. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE. 

GLACE   A   LA   FRAISE. 

1  quart  of  berries,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

1       "      "  water,  Juice  of  2  lemons. 

Add  the  sugar  and  lemon-juice  to  the  berries  ;  mash-and 
set  aside  1  hour.  Strain  through  a  sieve  ;  add  the  water. 
Freeze  as  directed  for  Lemon  Water-ice.  The  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs  may  be  added.     See  above. 

FROZEN  PEACHES. 

PECHES   GLACEES. 

2  pounds  of  peaches,  1  quart  of  water, 

6  peach  kernels,  1%  pounds  of  sugar. 

Peel  and  mash  the  peaches,  removing  the  stones.  Pound 
the  kernels  smooth.  Add  them  to  the  sugar.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  water  together  for  5  minutes.  Strain  and  set  away  to 
cool.  When  cold,  add  to  it  the  mashed  peaches.  Put  into 
the  freezer  and  freeze  as  directed  for  Lemon  Water-ice. 

FROZEN  STRAWBERRIES. 

FRAISES   GLACEES. 

I  quart  of  strawberries,  I  pound  of  sugar, 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  1  quart  of  water. 

Put  the  sugar  and  lemon-juice  with  the  berries.  Let 
stand  1  hour.  Mash  the  berries ;  add  the  water ;  stir. 
When  the  sugar  is  quite  melted,  turn  into  the  freezer  and 
freeze  according  to  directions  for  Lemon  Water-ice. 


502  GOOD-LIVING. 

ORANGE   SHERBET. 

GLACE   A   L'ORANGE. 

4  oranges,  grated  rinds,  2  whites  of  eggs, 

I  pint  of  orange-juice,  I  pint  and  i  gill  of  water, 

I  pound  of  sugar. 

Grate  the  rinds  of  the  oranges,  and  soak  for  10  minutes  in 
boiling  water.  Strain  I  pint  of  this  water  upon  the  sugar ; 
when  this  is  dissolved,  add  I  pint  of  orange-juice.  When 
cold,  freeze.  When  nearly  frozen,  add  the  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Close  the  can  carefully  and  freeze 
again  (see  General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 

PINE- APPLE   SHERBET. 

GLACE   A   L'ANANAS. 

Peel  a  ripe  pine-apple  ;  take  out  the  eyes  and  grate  to 
a  smooth,  even  pulp.  To  i  quart  of  this  pulp,  allow  \\ 
pounds  of  sugar  and  I  pint  of  water.  Dissolve  the  sugar  in 
the  boiling  water ;  when  cool,  add  it  to  the  fruit.  Freeze. 
When  nearly  frozen,  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Close  the  top  carefully.  Freeze  again  (see  General 
Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 

CITRON  ICE. 

2  quarts  of  strong,  rich  lemonade,  Scant  %  pint  of  sliced  citron, 

3  whites  of  eggs. 

Steep  some  of  the  lemon-rind  in  the  lemonade  for  I  hour. 
Strain.  Slice  the  citron  thin  and  small ;  throw  it  into  the 
strained  lemonade  ;  let  it  stand  overnight,  or,  if  time  will 
not  permit,  boil  it  i  minute ;  set  away  to  cool.  Freeze. 
When  the  crank  turns  very  hard,  open  the  freezer  and  add 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth ;  close  the  freezer 
carefully  (see  General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 
Preserved  watermelon-rind  or  citron  may  be  substituted  for 
the  dried  citron. 


FROZEN  PUNCH,  503 

CURRANT  SHERBET. 

GLACE   A   LA   GROSEILLE. 
1  pint  of  currant-juice,  1  pound  of  sugar. 

I     "     "  water,  3  whites  of  eggs. 

Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water.  When  cool,  add 
it  to  the  strained  juice.  Freeze.  When  the  crank  turns 
very  hard,  open  the  freezer ;  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Close  the  freezer  carefully ;  turn  again  until 
very  stiff,  and  finish  as  directed  (see  General  Directions 
for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 

STRAWBERRY  SHERBET 

GLACE   A  LA   FRAISE. 
Juice  of  2  quarts  of  berries  mashed         2  pounds  of  sugar,  dissolved  in  the 

and  strained,  water, 

Equal  quantity  of  water,  4  whites  of  eggs. 

Mash  the  berries  ;  cover  with  the  sugar ;  let  stand  1  hour 
or  more ;  then  press  out  the  juice,  add  the  water,  and  freeze 
as  above ;  add  the  whites  of  eggs  lastly.  Close  carefully ; 
freeze  again  (see  General  Directions  for  Freezing  Ice-Creams). 

ROMAN  PUNCH. 

PONCHE   A   LA   ROMAINE. 

1  quart  of  lemon  water-ice,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

^  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  ]4.  pint  of  champagne, 

1  gill  of  maraschino. 

Freeze  the  Lemon  Water-ice  (see  receipt)  very  hard  ;  then 
add  slowly  the  liquors.  Beat  well.  Pack  and  cover  the 
freezer ;  carefully  cover  and  stand  it  away  for  4  or  5  hours. 
It  will  not  freeze  perfectly  firm  on  account  of  the  alcohol. 
Serve  in  glasses. 

FROZEN  PUNCH. 

SORBET. 
6  lemons,  1  gill  rum, 

2  oranges,  %  pint  champagne, 

1  pound  powdered  sugar,  ^  gill  brandy, 

1  pint  water. 

Peel  the  oranges  and  lemons,  and  squeeze  out  all  the  juice. 
Dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  boiling  water,  and,  when  cold,  add 


5Q4 


GOOD  LIVING. 


it  to  the  juice.  Freeze  very  hard,  according  to  receipt  for 
Lemon  Water-Ice.  When  firm,  add  the  liquors.  Re-cover 
carefully  and  turn  long  enough  to  mix  well ;  then  remove 
dasher ;  re-cover ;  pack  with  salt  and  ice  and  set  away  for  2 
hours.  It  should  be  covered  with  a  piece  of  carpet.  The 
above  will  never  become  perfectly  hard  after  the  liquors  are 
added,  on  account  of  the  alcohol. 


PRESERVES   AND    CANDIES. 

NOTE. — Never  make  preserves  on  a   damp   day.     Never 
use  fruit  picked  in  wet  weather. 


SYRUP  FOR  PRESERVES. 

2  pounds  best  white  sugar,  I  pint  of  fresh  water, 

I  white  of  egg. 

Put  all  into  a  white,  china-lined  kettle.  Stir  well.  Set  on 
the  fire  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Watch  that  the  syrup  does  not 
rise  too  rapidly,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  It  must  bubble, 
froth,  and  rise  before  it  will  clear.  Draw  it  on  one  side  of 
the  range  and  let  it  settle  ;  then  skim  it  very  thoroughly: 
If  the  syrup  at  any  time  rises  too  quickly  and  threatens  to 
boil  over,  if  you  cannot  remove  the  kettle  easily,  throw  in  a 
dash  of  cold  water  and  it  will  be  checked  immediately  ;  then 
you  can  safely  move  it  to  one  side.  The  kettle,  on  ac- 
count of  this,  should  be  much  larger  than  seems  necessary. 

PEACHES   PRESERVED  IN  SYRUP. 

Prepare  the  syrup  as  directed  above.  Peel ;  cut  in  half ; 
remove  the  stones ;  when  the  syrup  has  been  skimmed 
and  brought  again  to  a  boil,  drop  in  a  few  peaches  at  a  time ; 
boil  until  thoroughly  tender,  15  to  20  minutes.  They 
should  be  tender  enough  to  pierce  with  a  whisp.  Drain  out 
the  fruit  and  put  it  in  the  jars.  When  all  are  done,  boil  down 
the  syrup  rapidly  for  20  minutes  or  more,  but  be  careful  that 
it  does  not  scorch.  If  any  scum  rises,  remove  it.  Fill  the 
jars  with  the  boiling  syrup,  having  previously  poured  off  the 
505 


506  GOOD-LIVING. 

thin  syrup  from  them.  Set  aside  to  cool.  When  cold, 
screw  the  tops  on.  If  in  open  jars,  cover  first  with  brandied 
papers,  then  with  white  paper  fastened  on  with  flour-paste. 
Clean,  label,  and  set  away. 

Pears  may  be  preserved  according  to  above  receipt. 


BRANDIED  PEACHES. 

Select  for  this  purpose  white  peaches  that  are  not  too  ripe : 
Morris  Whites,  Smocks,  or  White  Heath,  are  considered 
best  for  the  purpose.  Peel  very  carefully,  so  that  the  mark 
of  the  knife  shall  not  be  visible.  If  well  done,  this  saves,  too, 
the  troublesome  process  of  skinning  with  lye.  Melt  in  a 
porcelain-lined  kettle  2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar  in  3 
quarts  of  water.  Weigh  the  fruit ;  then  put  in  the  peaches, 
a  few  at  a  time,  to  scald.  When  they  are  boiled  tender,  so 
that  they  can  be  pierced  with  a  broom-whisp,  skim  them  out 
and  lay  on  a  platter.  When  all  are  scalded  (taking  care  not 
to  cook  them  too  much),  make  a  syrup  as  follows  :  Take 
one  half  the  weight  of  peaches  in  sugar.  Allow  1  gill  of 
the  first  syrup  to  every  pound  of  fresh  sugar.  Put  it  into 
the  kettle  and  bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil.  It  will  take  some 
time  for  the  sugar  to  dissolve.  It  must  boil  up  rapidly  once, 
then  be  stood  aside  to  settle.  Skim  then,  not  before. 
Then  bring  to  a  boil  again.  Put  the  peaches  into  this 
strong  syrup,  a  few  at  a  time.  Scald  for  about  5  minutes ; 
remove  to  jars.  When  all  the  peaches  are  cooked,  boil 
down  the  syrup  for  10  to  20  minutes,  until  very  thick, 
taking  care  not  to  scorch  it.  Skim  again.  Drain  the  syrup 
from  the  jars.  Fill  the  jars  \  with  the  rich  syrup.  Fill  to 
the  top  with  the  best  4th-proof  French  brandy.  Cover  and 
set  away.  Much  care  and  taste  must  be  used  in  handling 
and  packing  the  fruit  in  jars.  If  liked,  crack  the  stones  and 
put  6  peeled  kernels  to  each  pint-jar. 

N.  B. — To  peel  the  kernels,  throw  boiling  water  over,  and 
stand  5  or  10  minutes,  when  the  skins  will  come  off  easily. 


PRESERVED   WATERMELON-RIND.  $0? 

PRESER  VED    WA  TERM  EL  ON-RIND. 

8  pounds  of  rind,  when  cut  up,  6  pounds  of  sugar, 

6  gills   of  water,   including   that   in         3  or  four  ounces  of  ginger,  according 
which  the  lemons  are  boiled,  to  taste  for  same, 

5  lemons  (large). 

Peel  the  rind,  removing  also  the  pink  part  of  a  watermelon 
that  is  not  fully  ripe.  Cut  into  pieces  about  1  inch  square. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  adding  a  little  salt.  Next  day  throw 
off  that  water.  Cover  with  fresh  water,  adding  this  time  a 
pinch  of  alum.  Next  morning  rinse  it  well  until  all  the 
alum  is  thoroughly  washed  off,  and  let  it  stand  covered  with 
cold  water  until  you  are  ready  to  use  it.  Slice  the  lemons  ; 
remove  the  seeds ;  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  until 
thoroughly  tender,  which  will  take  fully  30  minutes.  Scrape 
and  slice  very  thin  3  ounces  of  green  ginger.  Put  it  down 
to  boil  in  a  saucepan,  and  boil  until  tender,  which  may  per- 
haps take  2  hours  (or  less),  according  to  the  toughness  of 
the  root.  But  it  must  be  tender  before  using.  Weigh  the 
watermelon-rind  and  allow  about  f  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
each  pound  of  rind.  Put  the  sugar  by  itself  in  the  preserv- 
ing kettle,  adding  1  gill  of  boiling  water  to  each  pound  of 
sugar.  Let  it  gradually  dissolve  and  come  to  a  gentle  boil. 
Meanwhile  put  the  watermelon-rind  into  boiling  water  in 
another  vessel,  and  boil  (covered)  until  tender,  which  will 
take  from  30  to  45  minutes.  When  it  looks  evenly  trans- 
parent, remove  it  from  the  fire ;  drain  off  all  the  water ; 
wring  it  in  a  towel  to  squeeze  out  all  moisture ;  then  lay 
the  pieces  on  a  platter  to  cool.  They  will  look  very  dis- 
couraging and  limp,  but  that  is  right.  Now  to  return  to  the 
syrup.  The  water  in  which  the  lemon  has  been  boiled 
should  be  used  to  wet  the  sugar,  as  far  as  it  will,  then 
plain  boiling  water  added  to  make  up  the  quantity  required. 
Now  bring  the  kettle  forward  and  let  the  syrup  come  to  a 
rapid  boil,  which  it  has  to  do  before  it  will  become  crystal- 
clear.  When  it  has  bubbled  and  frothed  up  well,  push  it  to 
the  side  of  the  range  where  it  will  subside  again,  then  skim 
it  thoroughly ;  skimming  before  this  point  is  waste  of  time 


508  GOOD  LIVING. 

and  sugar.  When  well-skimmed  (our  best  Havemeyer  & 
Elder  or  Moller  brands  require  hardly  any  skimming),  put 
into  the  syrup  the  watermelon,  the  sliced  lemon,  and  the 
ginger,  if  it  is  yet  tender.  You  can  also  add  a  little  of 
the  water  in  which  the  ginger  has  been  boiled,  if  it  is  very 
pungent  and  strong.  It  will  improve  the  flavor  decidedly. 
Boil  until  the  rind  has  filled  out  again  thoroughly,  and  looks 
rich  and  transparent ;  then  skim  out  the  fruit  into  jars  or 
tumblers;  boil  down  the  syrup  for  15  or  20  minutes  ;  pour 
the  syrup  over  the  fruit  generously,  and  your  preserved 
watermelon-rind  is  completed.  It  keeps  admirably,  and, 
though  complicated,  is  not  really  troublesome.  Citrons  and 
drumheads  may  be  treated  as  above. 

PRESERVED  PLUMS. 

Make  a  Syrup  for  Preserves,  as  directed.  When  boiling 
again,  after  being  well  skimmed,  drop  in,  a  few  at  a  time, 
plums  which  you  have  previously  pricked  with  a  coarse 
needle.  Half  of  the  stem  may  be  left  on,  but  this  is  not  rec- 
ommended. Boil  the  fruit  very  gently  in  the  syrup  for  20 
minutes  or  more,  until  thoroughly  soaked  through.  Then 
remove  the  fruit  with  a  skimmer.  Pack  it  in  jars,  f-full. 
Boil  down  the  syrup  20  minutes  or  more  until  quite  thick ; 
fill  the  jars  to  the  top  and  set  away  to  cool.  Next  day  finish 
as  directed  for  Peaches  Preserved  in  Syrup. 

CHERRIES  PRESERVED  IN  SYRUP. 

Prepare  a  Syrup  for  Preserves,  as  directed. 

Cut  \  the  stem  off  of  the  cherries.  Proceed  as  above 
directed  for  plums  ;  boiling  perhaps  a  few  minutes  less,  say 
15  instead  of  20  minutes.  Finish  as  directed  for  Peaches 
Preserved  in  Syrup. 

PEACH  SWEETMEATS. 

Allow  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit,  6 
kernels  to  every  pint  jar. 


BLACKBERRY  SWEETMEATS.  509 

Weigh  the  fruit ;  pare,  and  cut  in  \.  Put  it  into  the  kettle 
and  stand  on  one  side.  When  the  juice  begins  to  run,  add 
the  sugar  ;  when  it  dissolves,  bring  the  kettle  forward  and 
let  it  boil  until  the  peaches  are  thoroughly  tender,  as  much 
cooked  as  they  can  be  without  going  to  pieces.  Skim  the 
fruit  out.  Drain.  Fill  the  jars.  Let  the  syrup  boil  quickly 
for  20  minutes,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  scorch.  Draw 
to  one  side  and  skim  ;  then  fill  the  jars.  Cool ;  cover ;  wash, 
and  set  away.     These  are  very  simple  and  keep  well. 

5  TRA  WBERR  Y  S  WEE  TMEA  TS. 

2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,         2  heaping  pints  of  very  large  berries, 
2  gills  of  boiling  water. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  china-lined  preserving  kettle  with  the 
water ;  stand  it  on  one  side  of  the  range  until  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved ;  then  draw  it  forward,  and,  when  boiling,  put  in  the 
fruit.  Boil  about  10  minutes  or  more  until  the  fruit  is  clear  ; 
boil  very  gently,  or  the  berries  will  break.  Put  them  in 
tumblers  or  jars  while  the  syrup  boils  down  about  20  min- 
utes, or  more,  according  to  the  wateriness  of  the  fruit.  The 
syrup  must  be  rich  and  thick.  Draw  aside  and  let  it  settle  ; 
then  skim.  Boil  up  once  more  and  pour  over  the  fruit,  hav- 
ing first  drained  from  it  the  thin  syrup  ;  cover.  If  any  syrup 
remains  over,  add  to  it  enough  vinegar  to  flavor  ;  boil  up  ; 
bottle  and  cork.  It  will  make  a  refreshing  drink  after  the 
style  of  Raspberry  Vinegar.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to 
keep  the  berries  not  only  whole  but  round,  therefore  while 
the  jars  are  cooling,  screw  the  covers  on  tightly  ;  turn  the 
jars  from  side  to  side,  to  prevent  .settling  flat. 

BLA  C KB  ERR  Y  S  WEE  TMEA  TS. 

Allow  1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit. 
Choose  by  preference  the  Lawtons  for  this  purpose.  Put  the 
fruit  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  and  set  on  a  very  moderate 
fire  until  enough  juice  is  drawn  out  to  prevent  scorching. 
Boil  until  perfectly  tender,  10  or  15  minutes  at  least;  then 


5IO  GOOD-LIVING. 

add  the  sugar ;  mix  very  carefully,  not  to  bruise  the  fruit.  Do 
not  boil  again.  Just  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  thoroughly  dis- 
solved, fill  the  jars  as  quickly  as  possible.  Cover  immediately. 
For  Blackberry  Jam,  stir  the  fruit  constantly  and  boil  hard 
for  20  minutes,  allowing  f  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of 
fruit. 

CURRANT  SWEETMEATS. 

Allow  1  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit. 

Pick  over  the  fruit  carefully,  removing  stems,  leaves,  etc. 
Weigh  the  fruit.  Put  it  into  a  china-lined  kettle  and  warm 
slowly.  Stew  gently  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Then  add  the 
sugar.  Mix  it  through  the  fruit  very  carefully  ;  do  not  mash 
it.  Do  not  boil  again.  Just  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  perfectly 
dissolved,  fill  the  jars  quickly ;  cover  cold,  and  set  away. 
White  currants  and  black  may  also  be  used  as  above. 

CHERR  Y  S  WEE  TMEA  TS. 

May  be  prepared  as  above,  as,  indeed,  may  nearly  all 
small  fruits. 

GRAPE  SWEETMEATS. 

Allow  f  of  a  pound  of  sugar  to  1  pound  of  fruit. 

Select,  by  preference,  Isabellas,  or  some  good,  out-door, 
black  grape.  Weigh  the  fruit.  With  your  fingers,  squeeze 
the  pulp  from  the  skin  of  each  grape,  throwing  the  pulps 
into  one  bowl,  the  skins  into  another.  This  is  called 
"  popping  "  (not  the  question,  but)  the  grapes.  When  done, 
put  the  pulp  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  on  the  fire.  Heat 
gradually,  and  then  stew  gently  for  about  15  minutes  until, 
by  testing,  you  will  find  that  the  seeds  come  out  easily. 
Turn  them  into  a  coarse  sieve  and  press  all  the  juice  and 
pulp  through,  leaving  behind  only  the  seeds.  Now  put  pulp 
and  skins  back  on  the  fire  in  the  same  kettle,  and,  when  boil- 
ing, add  the  sugar,  and  continue  to  boil  for  about  30  minutes ; 
it  should,  by  this  time,  be  a  rich  dark  color,  and  quite  thick; 
if  not,  boil  15  minutes  longer.  Put  into  jars  or  glasses  ;  when 
cold,  screw  on  the  covers,  wash,  and  set  away. 


CURRA  N T  JELL  Y.  5  1 1 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

Proceed  exactly  as  above,  up  to  the  point  where  the  sugar 
is  to  be  added.  When  the  pulps  and  skins  have  boiled 
together  15  minutes,  dip  out  some  of  the  juice  (it  need  not 
be  strained),  but  no  skins.  To  every  pint  of  juice,  allow  1 
pound  of  sugar.  Bring  the  juice  to  a  rapid  boil  for  10  min- 
utes ;  then  add  the  sugar,  and,  when  thoroughly  dissolved, 
put  into  glasses.  When  cold,  cover.  This  jelly  is  never  as 
clear  or  as  firm  as  Currant  Jelly,  but  is  very  good,  and  serves 
as  a  useful  substitute  for  the  latter  in  many  cases.  It  is  well 
to  make  the  jelly  at  the  same  time  as  the  preserves,  as  it 
saves  trouble  and  time.  It  is  useless  to  strain  the  above,  as 
it  is  never  transparent  under  any  circumstances. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

"  The  following  receipt  has  three  advantages :  first,  it 
never  fails ;  secondly,  it  requires  but  half  the  usual  quantity  of 
sugar  ;  thirdly,  it  is  far  less  trouble  than  the  usual  method." 
With  such  a  recommendation  from  its  author,  it  is  felt  safe 
to  give  the  receipt. 

Weigh  the  currants  without  removing  the  stems.  Do  not 
wash  them,  but  carefully  remove  all  leaves  and  twigs  that 
may  adhere  to  them.  To  each  pound  of  fruit,  allow  \  the 
weight  in  granulated  sugar.  Put  a  few  currants  into  a 
porcelain-lined  preserve-kettle.  Mash  them  to  provide  juice 
enough  to  prevent  scorching.  Then  add  the  rest  "of  the 
fruit ;  heat  gradually ;  then  boil  briskly  for  20  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  scorching.  Then  transfer  to 
a  close,  strong  jelly-bag,  letting  the  liquid  run  into  earthen 
or  wooden  vessels,  never  into  tin,  the  acid  of  the  fruit  acting 
on  the  tin,  affecting  both  color  and  flavor.  When  strained, 
return  the  juice  to  the  kettle,  without  measuring.  Bring  it 
to  a  boil.  Let  it  boil  hard  for  a  minute  or  2,  then  add  the 
sugar.  The  very  instant  the  sugar  is  entirely  dissolved,  the 
jelly  is  ready,  and  must  immediately  be  put  into  glasses.  It 
will  jelly  in  the  cup  as  it  is  being  taken  up. — Mrs.  Henderson 
in  "  Practical  Cooking  and  Dinner-Giving." 


512  GOOD-LIVING. 

Gather  the  currants  for  jelly  as  soon  as  ripe;  they  will  not 
jelly  as  well  if  allowed  to  get  too  ripe,  as  the  pulp  softens. 
Never  gather  fruit  for  jelly  or  preserves  while  wet  with  rain, 
or  immediately  after  a  rain.  They  must  be  entirely  free 
from  dampness,  as  well  as  from  moisture.  The  first  week  in 
July,  in  these  latitudes,  is  generally  the  best  (and  hottest!) 
time  for  making  currant  jelly.  The  above  receipt  may  also 
be  followed  for  Raspberry  and  Currant  Jelly,  using  the  fruits 
in  equal  quantities,  or  f-  currants  to  \  raspberries.  It  is 
much  more  delicate  and  delicious  than  that  made  from 
currants  alone. 

PEA  CH  MA  RMA  LA  DE. 


Peel  the  peaches,  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  having  previously 
weighed  them.  Put  the  fruit  and  sugar  into  a  porcelain- 
lined  preserving-kettle.  Stir  frequently  to  prevent  scorching. 
Set  the  kettle  where  it  will  simmer  steadily  and  gently.  Let 
it  cook,  stirring  frequently,  for  about  5  hours,  until  boiled 
down  to  thick  marmalade.  Crack  and  skin  a  handful  of 
kernels,  and  add  to  the  kettle.  The  marmalade  will  be 
ready  to  remove  from  the  fire  in  4^  to  5  hours,  according  to 
the  heat  of  the  fire.  Skim.  Put  in  glasses  or  jam-pots.  It 
will  keep  for  a  long  time,  and  is  a  most  satisfactory  preserve, 
giving  very  little  trouble. 

N.  B. — Do  not  boil  it  until  it  is  dark  brown,  as  is  often 
done,  nor  until  as  thick  as  paste  ;  it  will  become  thicker  as 
well  as  darker  when  put  away. 

PINE-APPLE  MARMALADE. 

Allow  1  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pound  of  fruit. 

Weigh  the  fruit ;  then  peel,  take  out  the  eyes,  and  grate  the 
pine-apples  coarsely.  Put  them,  pulp  and  sugar,  in  a  china- 
lined  preserve-kettle  on  the  fire.  Heat  gradually.  Stir 
often.  Cook  very  gently,  but  steadily,  until  clear  and  thick, 
which  may  require  perhaps  as  much  as  3  to  3^  hours.  Put 
into  tumblers,  and,  when  cold,  cover. 


MOLASSES  CANDY.  513 

TO  KEEP  PIE-PLANT 

Wash  out  preserve  jars,  and  fill  them  with  cold  water.  Cut 
the  rhubarb,  or  pie-plant,  into  lengths  of  2  inches.  Peel  or 
not,  as  you  prefer.  Throw  the  rhubarb  into  the  jars.  As 
they  fill,  the  water  will  overflow.  When  full,  screw  the  tops 
on  the  jars  and  set  away.  The  water  excludes  the  air,  and 
the  fruit,  treated  in  this  way,  will  keep  for  months.  When 
required  for  use,  drain  off  the  water,  and  cook  according  to 
any  of  the  usual  modes. 

JAMBOREE. 

7)4,  pints  of  grape  juice,  Ground  cinnamon, 
%yi  pounds  of  pears,  peeled  and  cut  fine,  "       allspice, 

2>}i       "        "  apples,     "       "       "     "  "       cloves, 

12  pounds  sugar. 

Prepare  the  grapes  as  for  Grape  Jelly  (see  receipt),  allowing 
\  pound  of  sugar  to  every  pint  of  juice.  When  it  has  boiled 
rapidly  for  20  minutes,  put  this  syrup  into  a  large  kettle  with 
the  pears,  apples,  and  sugar,  allowing  \  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
I  pound  of  pears  and  apples.  Bring  to  a  boil ;  then  set  aside 
where  it  will  simmer  gently,  but  without  interruption.  Stir 
very  often,  and  mash  the  fruit  as  smooth  as  possible.  After 
4  hours  and  30  minutes,  add  ground  spices,  as  above,  using 
very  little  cloves.  Mix  well.  Continue  to  boil  for  about  6 
hours  in  all.  Then,  if  like  thick  batter,  put  into  jars.  When 
cold  (after  1  or  2  days),  cover.  The  jamboree  should  be 
almost  of  the  consistency  of  apple-butter. 

MOLASSES  CANDY. 

I  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar, 

1  tablespoon  of  vinegar,  I  ounce  of  melted  butter. 

Mix  and  boil  together,  without  stirring,  for  about  25  min- 
utes, until  it  hardens  when  a  little    is  dropped    into   cold 
water.     Add  1  level  teaspoonful  of  baking-soda,  and  stir  only 
just  enough  to  mix.     Pour  immediately  into  shallow,  well- 
33 


514  GOOD-LIVING. 

buttered  tins,  and  set  away  until  hard.  Or,  pull  it,  dipping 
the  hands,  during  the  process,  in  ice-water  or  in  melted 
butter. 

PEA-NUT  CANDY. 

Remove  shells  and  skins  from  the  nuts ;  almost  fill  the 
greased  pans  with  them ;  pour  over  them  the  hot  Molasses 
Candy  (see  above)  when  sufficiently  boiled,  and  set  away  in  a 
cool  place  to  harden. 

PECAN-NUT  CANDY. 

4  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  I  pound  of  butter, 

i  quart  of  kernels,  y2  pint  of  boiling  water. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  saucepan  with  the  boiling  water.  Boil 
hard  for  20  minutes.  Add  the  butter.  Boil  5  minutes.  Stir 
hard.  Add  the  nuts.  When  it  comes  again  to  a  boil,  pour 
it  into  small  buttered  tins  or  saucers,  and  set  away  to  harden. 

BLACK-WALNUT  CANDY. 
Make  exactly  according  to  above  receipt. 

CARAMELS. 

1  cup  of  molasses,  I  cup  of  brown  sugar, 

2  cups  ' '  grated  chocolate,  1    "     "  white      ' ' 
2     "    "  cream  (sweet),                                   Vanilla  to  taste, 

1  teaspoon  of  flour. 

Mix  together  to  a  smooth  paste  the  flour,  chocolate,  and 
some  of  the  cream.  Boil  30  minutes,  with  the  sugars,  cream, 
and  flavoring.  Pour  into  greased,  flat  pans,  and  when  almost 
cold,  mark  in  squares  with  a  knife. 


PICKLES,  CATSUPS,  ETC. 

NOTE. — Nearly  all  pickles  are  much  improved  by  being 
allowed  to  stand  some  time  before  being  used. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SOY. 

2  gallons  sliced  green  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  of  salt, 

12  large  onions,  sliced,  2  "  "         ground  mustard, 

12  green  peppers,    "  2  "  "         black  pepper, 

2  quarts  best  cider  vinegar,  I  tablespoon  of  allspice, 

i  quart  brown  sugar,  I  "  "   cloves. 

Stew  all  together  until  tender,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
burning.  They  will  require  about  5  hours'  slow  boiling. 
Put  up  in  small  glass  jars,  letting  the  vinegar  cover  the 
pickles  well.  The  pickle  should  be  allowed  to  stand  some 
time  before  using. 

GREEN  TOM  A  TO  PICKLES. 

1  cup  of  salt,  I  tablespoon  of  ground  mustard  seed. 

2  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  of  red  pepper,  or  pods  in 
i  gallon  of  best  cider  vinegar,  strips, 

I  tablespoon  of  white  mustard  seed,  2  quarts  of  boiling  water, 

whole,  I  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced, 

6  large  onions  (white),  chopped  fine. 

Sprinkle  the  tomatoes  and  onions  with  salt  and  stand  over- 
night. Next  day,  drain.  Boil  15  minutes  in  2  quarts  of 
boiling  water  and  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Drain  again.  Pre- 
pare the  pickle  with  the  rest  of  the  vinegar  and  spices  ;  add 
the  tomatoes  and  onions  to  it.  Boil  2  hours,  stirring  fre- 
quently to  prevent  scorching.  Put  into  jars  while  hot.  Let 
the  vinegar  cover  the  pickle  well.  Close  and  set  away. 
Recommended. 

515 


516  GOOD-LIVING. 

BLACK  PICKLE. 

I  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced,  I  ounce  ground  cloves, 

Handful  of  salt,  I      "  "         ginger, 

1  pint  brown  sugar,  I      "  "         pepper, 
i  gallon  best  vinegar,  i     "  "        allspice, 

2  ounces  dry  mustard. 

Throw  the  salt  over  the  sliced  tomatoes  ;  let  them  stand 
overnight.  In  the  morning,  squeeze  out  the  salt,  and  put 
the  tomatoes  in  the  kettle.  Mix  the  spices,  etc.,  together  in 
a  bowl.  Sprinkle  them  over  the  tomatoes.  Add  the  vine- 
gar, and  let  all  boil  slowly  for  5  hours,  stirring  frequently  to 
avoid  burning.  Put  the  pickles  in  jars.  Let  the  vinegar 
cover  the  pickles  well.  Cork  and  seal  the  jars.  It  will  keep 
for  years  (if  allowed  to). 

This  is  an  old-fashioned  receipt,  and  is  worthy  of  being 
perpetuated. 

CELERY  PICKLE. 

%  pound  white  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  of  salt, 

2  quarts  of  chopped  white  cabbage,  4  or  5  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

2  "       "         "        celery,  yz  ounce  white  ginger-root  (crushed 

3  "       "  vinegar,  best,  in  a  mortar), 

%  ounce  turmeric. 

Boil  all  together,  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  slowly  for  4  or 
5  hours  (no  longer),  until  the  cabbage  and  celery  are  perfectly 
tender.  Put  into  jars.  Let  the  vinegar  cover  the  pickle 
well ;  cork  tightly.  Do  not  let  the  pickle  boil  hard  at  any 
time. 

PEPPER  PICKLE. 

25  green  peppers,  Vinegar  to  cover, 

Double  their  bulk  in  cabbage,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard  seed, 

2  gills  of  salt,  1         "  "   ground  cloves, 

1  tablespoon  of  ground  allspice. 

Remove  the  seeds  from  the  peppers  and  chop  the  fruit. 
Chop  the  cabbage.  Add  all  the  other  ingredients  ;  cover 
with  cold  vinegar.  Put  in  jars,  being  careful  that  the  vine- 
gar covers  the  pickles.     Cork  tightly. 

Use  a  napkin  or  cotton  gloves  to  prepare  the  peppers,  or 
they  will  burn  your  hands. 


INDIAN  PICKLE.  517 

PICKLED  NASTURTIUMS. 

Have  jars  partly  filled  with  salted  vinegar  ;  as  the  nastur- 
tiums are  gathered,  wash  and  dry  them  and  throw  them  into 
the  vinegar,  always  being  careful  that  the  vinegar  covers  the 
nasturtiums. 

INDIAN  PICKLE. 

1  white  cabbage,  12  shallots, 

Cauliflower,  2  sticks  sliced  horse-radish, 

Radish-pods,  %  pound  of  ginger-root, 

String-beans,  2  ounces  whole  black  pepper, 

Gherkins,  1  ounce  whole  allspice, 

Small  white  onions,  12  cloves, 

Nasturtiums,  %  ounce  cayenne, 

Peppers,  etc.,  2  ounces  mustard-seed, 

I  gallon  of  vinegar,  ^  pound  ground  mustard, 

6  cloves  of  garlic,  1  ounce  turmeric. 

Slice  a  firm,  white  cabbage  ;  divide  the  flowerets  of  the 
cauliflowers ;  sprinkle  salt  over  them  in  a  large  dish,  or 
wooden  tub,  and  set  aside  for  48  hours  ;  then  dry  and  put 
them  into  a  large  jar,  with  the  garlic  and  other  seasonings 
in  the  above  proportions.  Boil  the  vinegar  and  pour  over 
them  ;  the  vinegar  should  cover  the  vegetables  well.  When 
cold,  cover  the  jar. 

As  the  other  vegetables  ripen  in  season,  they  may  be 
added  to  the  jar.  They  must  first  be  washed  in  cold 
vinegar,  wiped,  and  then  simply  added  to  the  other  ingredi- 
ents in  the  jar,  only  taking  care  that  they  are  covered  hy  the 
vinegar.  If  more  vinegar  should  be  required,  do  not  fail  to 
boil  it  before  adding  to  the  rest.  When  all  the  vegetables 
are  collected,  turn  the  contents  of  the  jar  into  a  large  bowl ; 
mix  thoroughly.  Pack  the  vegetables  in  smaller  jars  with- 
out the  vinegar.  Boil  the  vinegar  again,  adding  to  it  as 
much  more  as  may  be  required  to  fill  the  jars,  and  adding 
to  this  cold  fresh  vinegar  more  of  the  same  seasonings  in  the 
above  proportions.  Bring  to  a  boil,  and,  while  boiling,  pour 
over  the  pickle.  When  cold,  cover.  This  keeps  well,  if 
entirely  covered  with  vinegar. 


518  GOOD-LIVING. 

PICKLED   ONIONS. 

To  i  quart  of  vinegar  allow : 

2  tablespoons  whole  allspice,  2  tablespoons  whole  black  pepper. 

The  onions  should  be  of  the  smallest,  white,  ripe,  and  dry. 
Remove  the  first  skin  with  the  fingers ;  the  second  skin  with 
a  silver  knife ;  (steel  spoils  the  color  of  the  onions).  Pack 
in  well-washed  and  dried  bottles  or  jars.  Pour  over  the 
onions  sufficient  cold  vinegar  to  cover,  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  allspice  in  the  above  proportions.  Be  careful  that  the 
vinegar  covers  the  onions  well.  Cover  and  tie  down  tightly, 
to  exclude  the  air.  In  a  fortnight  the  onions  will  be  ready 
for  use.  The  above  receipt  is  simple,  and  the  onions  nice 
and  crisp.  They  should,  however,  not  be  kept  more  than 
6  or  8  months,  or  they  may  soften.  Mason's  Latest  Improved 
Jars  are  recommended  for  this  purpose. 

PICKLE  HASH. 

]/z  medium-sized  cabbage,  I  large  or  2  small  Spanish  onions, 

4  large  heads  of  celery,  2  cucumbers, 

4  tablespoons  of  grated  horse-radish,  i  red  and  i  green  pepper, 

6  large  green  tomatoes,  Best  cider  vinegar. 

Chop  all  and  mix  together.  Put  a  layer  2  inches  deep  in 
a  crock  ;  sprinkle  with  I  tablespoonful  of  salt ;  then  put 
another  layer  of  vegetables  and  salt,  and  so  on  until  all  are 
used.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain.  Press  out  all  liquid. 
Cover  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  10  minutes,  then  press 
out  all  moisture  with  the  hands.  Bring  the  vinegar  to  a 
boil.  To  every  quart  of  vinegar,  add  \  teaspoonful  of  pow- 
dered alum,  and  dissolve.  Put  the  vegetables  in  the  jar  2 
inches  deep  ;  sprinkle  with  mustard-seed,  black  pepper,  and 
horse-radish  ;  another  layer  of  vegetables,  another  of  spices, 
and  so  on.  Pour  over  this  the  boiling  vinegar.  Let  it  cover 
the  pickle  well.  Cover  tightly.  Let  stand  a  few  days. 
Keeps  well. 


SPICED  PEACHES.  $19 

PICKLED  GHERKINS  OR  SMALL  CUCUMBERS. 

Scald  with  brine  and  set  aside  in  the  brine  24  hours. 
Drain  dry  and  wipe.  Put  in  jars.  Throw  over  them  well- 
spiced  boiling  vinegar  (see  receipt  for  Green  Tomato  Pickles). 
Let  stand  2  weeks  or  longer  before  using.  The  vinegar  must 
cover  the  pickles  well. 

PICKLED  STRING-BEANS. 

Lay  young,  tender  beans  in  strong  brine  overnight. 
Drain  and  dry.  Fill  jars  with  them.  Cover  with  hot,  spiced 
vinegar  (see  Green  Tomato  Pickles),  with  \  teaspoonful  of 
powdered  alum  to  I  quart  of  vinegar.  Let  the  vinegar 
cover  the  pickles  well.  Cork,  and  set  away  for  6  weeks  at 
least. 

PICKLED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Scald  until  tender ;  separate  the  flowerets ;  drain  and  fin- 
ish as  Pickled  String-Beans. 

GREEN  TOMATO  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Pare  2  pounds  of  firm  green  tomatoes.  Boil  them  in  hot 
vinegar  and  water  (£  of  each)  for  30  minutes.  Make  a  syrup 
of  1  pint  of  strong  vinegar  and  \\  pounds  of  brown  sugar 
for  every  2  pounds  of  the  tomatoes.  Spice  to  taste  with 
cinnamon,  mace,  and  ginger-root  (all  whole).  Boil  20  min- 
utes. Drain  the  tomatoes  from  the  plain  vinegar  and  water ; 
put  them  into  the  syrup  and  boil  45  minutes.  Put  into  pre- 
serve jars ;  cover  well  with  the  syrup  ;  when  cool,  close  and 
set  away. 

SPICED  PEACHES. 

7  pounds  peaches,  |^  ounce  stick-cinnamon, 

3        "       brown  sugar,  ^      "      whole  cloves, 

1  quart  vinegar. 

Let  the  sugar,  spices,  and  vinegar  simmer  gently  while 
peeling  the  peaches  ;  then  boil  all  together  until  the  fruit  is 
tender.  Put  in  jars  and  cork  tightly.  Let  the  vinegar  cover 
the  fruit  well. 


5  20  GOOD-LI  VING. 

PEPPER  VINEGAR. 
Fill  a  small  bottle  ^--full  of  very  small  cherry  peppers  or 
chillies ;  fill  it  up  with  best  wine  or  cider  vinegar.  Will  be 
ready  for  use  in  a  few  days.  The  older  it  grows,  the  stronger 
and  better  it  is.  The  bottle  may  be  filled  up  with  vinegar 
as  it  diminishes.  Two  or  3  drops  for  a  plate  of  soup  or  salad 
will  be  found  sufficient. 

SPIRITS  OF  PEPPER. 
Fill  a  small  bottle,  as  above,  -g-full  of  peppers ;  fill  it  up 
with  pure  alcohol.     Cork  tightly  and  set  away  for  several 
months,  or  even  years.     It  is  improved  by  time.     Use,  as 
above,  for  soups,  salads,  sauces,  etc. 

TARRAGON  VINEGAR. 

VINAIGRE  A  L'ESTRAGON. 

Put  into  a  clean  quart  bottle  £  pint  of  tarragon  leaves ;  fill 
it  with  best  wine  or  cider  vinegar.  Steep  for  2  weeks.  Then 
strain  through  a  flannel  bag ;  bottle,  cork,  and  seal.  Set 
away  in  a  cool  place. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 
Pare,  split,  remove  the  seeds,  and  grate  the  cucumbers. 
Allow  to  each  pint  of  pulp : 

}4  pint  good  vinegar  (cold),  i  teaspoon  salt, 

%  teaspoon  cayenne,  2  level  tablespoons  of  grated  horse-radish. 

Drain  the  pulp  before  adding  to  it  the  other  ingredients. 
Bottle,  cork  tightly,  and  seal.  The  horse-radish  may  be 
omitted. 

TOM  A  TO  CA  TSUP  NO.  I. 

I  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes,  1%  ounces  black  pepper,  ground, 

%  gallon  best  vinegar,  1%       "      allspice,  ground, 

}i  pound  brown  sugar,  2  "      mustard,      " 

yi  pint  of  salt,  I       ounce  ginger,         " 

I      "     "  alcohol,  yz         "      cloves,  " 

%  ounce  cayenne,  ground,  }4         "      garlic,  chopped  fine. 

Boil  the  tomatoes  whole  in  a  china-lined  kettle  for  30 
minutes.     Press  through  a  coarse  sieve  all  except  seeds  and 


SPICED    VINE  GAP. 


521 


skins.  Now  boil  down  to  1^  gallons  ;  add  vinegar.  Boil 
again  to  if  gallons.  Then  add  spices,  garlic,  etc.  Mix. 
Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  continually ;  remove  from  the  fire. 
Add  alcohol.  Bottle  while  hot.  Cork  and  seal.  This  is  a 
day's  work. 

TOM  A  TO   CA  TSUP  NO.  II. 


%,  bushel  of  ripe  tomatoes, 
yi  ounce  of  cayenne, 
1  head  of  garlic, 


]^  ounce  of  ground  mace, 
X       "       "       "       ginger, 
J/      "      "'       "       cloves. 


Slice  the  tomatoes  without  peeling.  Put  into  a  china- 
lined  kettle,  and  boil  until  tender.  Press  through  a  sieve  all 
the  pulp.  Boil  until  reduced  to  f  of  its  bulk.  Add  all  the 
ingredients,  and  boil  30  minutes  longer ;  then  bottle,  cork, 
and  seal. 

SPICED  VINEGAR. 

VINAIGRE  AROMATISE. 


3  pounds  of  sugar, 

2  ounces  "  whole  cloves, 

2      "         "       "      allspice, 

2      "         "       "      celery-seed, 

2      "        "       "      mustard-seed, 


2  ounces  of  whole  mace, 

3  "       "      "       pepper, 

2       "        "       "       turmeric, 

2  "       "       "       white  ginger,  cut  in  bits. 

3  gallons  of  best  cider  vinegar. 


Mix  the  spices ;  put  them  in  bags  of  thin  but  strong  mus- 
lin ;  lay  them  in  a  3-gallon  crock  with  a  small  neck,  and  fill 
it  with  the  best  cider  vinegar.  Keep  closely  covered,  and 
use  for  salads  and  sauces.  After  infusing  until  well  flavored, 
it  may  be  strained  into  bottles,  corked,  sealed,  and  set  away. 


BEVERAGES,  ETC 
DRIP-COFFEE  FOR  BREAKFAST. 

CAFE   AU    LAIT. 

Use  for  this  the  French  coffee  biggin.  See  that  the 
strainers  are  all  in  place  and  the  coffee-pot  absolutely  clean. 
This  is  a  more  important  point  than  is  generally  imagined. 
Tin  coffee-pots  require  more  than  ordinary  care,  for  the  rea- 
son that  the  chemical  action  of  the  coffee  upon  the  tin 
creates  a  bluish  substance  which  collects  and  clings  to  every 
crevice  and  seam,  and,  in  the  course  of  time,  affects  the 
flavor  of  the  coffee  most  peculiarly  and  unpleasantly.  Use, 
therefore,  in  preference,  a  coffee-pot  made  on  the  system  of 
the  biggin,  but  in  earthenware  instead  of  tin.  They  are  im- 
ported to  New  York,  and  are  not  expensive,  their  only  dis- 
advantage being  the  fact  that  they  are  breakable.  Having 
the  strainers  all  ready  and  in  order,  and  the  coffee  ground 
just  fine  enough  not  to  pass  through  the  second  strainer, 
put  it  into  the  biggin,  allowing  I  heaping  tablespoonful  of 
ground  coffee  for  each  cup,  and  one  for  the  coffee-pot. 
Place  the  top  strainer  in  position.  Set  on  the  corner  of  the 
range  and  pour  in  the  measured  quantity  of  water  required, 
which  should  be  freshly  boiled.  Cover.  Let  it  trickle 
through ;  then  pour  the  coffee  into  a  cup  and  back  over  the 
grounds  once  or  more,  according  to  the  degree  of  strength 
required.  Keep  the  coffee-pot  where  it  will  be  just  short  of 
boiling,  and  be  sure  the  spout  and  top  are  well  covered 
while  the  coffee  is  dripping.  Serve  immediately  with  boiled 
milk. 

522 


TO  MAKE   GOOD    TEA.  523 

AFTER-DINNER  DRIP-COFFEE. 

CAFE   NOIR. 

Make  exactly  the  same  as  Drip-Coffee  for  Breakfast, 
allowing  \  the  usual  quantity  of  boiling  water  to  the  amount 
of  coffee  indicated.  Serve  at  the  same  time  a  small  pitcher 
of  very  sweet  cream.  If  the  cream  is  not  fresh  as  well  as 
sweet,  the  heat  of  the  coffee  will  curdle  it. 

BOILED  COFFEE. 

Allow  the  same  proportions  as  for  Drip-Coffee  that  is,  1 
heaping  tablespoon  of  ground  coffee  to  each  cup,  and  I  for 
the  pot.  Mix  with  the  raw  grounds  the  white  of  I  egg  to 
about  5  cups  of  coffee,  and  \  cup  of  cold  water.  Crush  the 
shell  of  the  egg  and  throw  it  into  the  coffee-pot.  Put  in  the 
coffee  and  white  of  egg,  then  pour  on  freshly-boiled  water  to 
the  amount  required  ;  close  lid  and  spout  tightly.  Let  it 
boil  for  about  3  minutes  hard,  then  throw  in  about  a  wine- 
glassful  of  cold  water  to  settle  it ;  draw  it  a  little  aside, 
where  it  will  keep  very  hot  but  not  boil,  and  let  stand  10 
or  1 5  minutes ;  serve  then,  immediately,  with  boiled  milk. 
Breakfast  coffee  with  cream  need  not  be  quite  as  strong  as 
that  drunk  with  milk,  as  the  latter  serves  to  dilute  it  more. 
In  making  coffee  (especially  boiled  coffee)  be  sure  that  the 
spout  is  tightly  closed,  as  well  as  the  lid,  to  keep  in  the 
aroma.  There  are  many  varieties  of  coffee-pots,  each  having 
with  it  the  directions  for  its  special  use.  The  above  receipt 
is  for  a  plain  coffee-pot. 

TO  MAKE  GOOD  TEA. 

Put  the  tea-kettle  on  the  fire,  filled  with  'fresh,  cold  water, 
and  bring  it  to  a  boil.  Select  a  tea-pot  of  an  appropriate 
size  for  the  quantity  of  tea  you  wish  to  make  ;  that  is,  for  a 
few  cups  do  not  use  a  large  tea-pot.  As  soon  as  the  water 
comes  to  a  boil,  pour  some  of  it  into  the  tea-pot  and  let  it  stand 
on  the  corner  of  the  range  for  1  or  2  minutes,  until  it  is 


524  GOOD-LIVING. 

thoroughly  heated.  Throw  out  this  water  ;  leave  the  cover 
open  ;  stand  again  on  the  range  until  dry,  only  a  few  minutes. 
Now  put  in  the  tea,  allowing  i  teaspoonful  for  each  person 
and  i  for  the  pot.  Close  the  lid  and  leave  the  tea-pot  upon 
the  range  I  minute,  or  perhaps  2,  until  the  tea-leaves  are 
heated  through.  Now  pour  on  at  the  one  time  all  the  water 
you  will  require.  Close  the  lid  and  stand  in  a  hot  corner 
3  to  5  minutes,  then  serve  it  immediately. 

For  teas,  where  the  one  tea-pot  has  to  serve  an  unknown 
number  of  guests,  it  should  be  replenished  from  the  boiling 
kettle  after  each  cup  that  is  taken  from  it.  The  tea-pot,  if 
of  moderate  size,  should  be  £  filled  with  leaves,  and  then  it 
need  not  stand  to  draw,  if  kept  constantly  replenished  from 
the  boiling  kettle  after  each  cup.  When  it  begins  to  look 
weaker  than  it  should,  have  the  leaves  thrown  out  and  fresh 
tea  made  as  before. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 

Make  the  Tea  as  directed.  Serve  it  in  glasses  with  sugar 
to  taste  and  a  slice  of  lemon  in  each  glass. 

ICED  TEA. 

Make  the  Tea  as  directed.  Put  it  in  the  ice-box.  When 
ready  to  serve,  |-fill  a  glass  pitcher  with  ice ;  put  in  a  sliced 
lemon  ;  sweeten  the  tea,  and  pour  it  over  the  ice.  Stir  until 
very  cold,  and  serve.  The  tea  should  not  be  as  strong  as  for 
drinking  hot. 

CHOCOLA  TE. 

CHOCOLAT. 

1  ounce  of  grated  chocolate,  yd.  pint  of  new  milk, 

3  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream. 

These  are  the  proportions  for  1  cup.  Melt  the  chocolate 
in  a  farina-kettle  with  1  or  2  tablespoonfuls  of  the  cold  milk. 
Bring  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  a  boil.  When  the  chocolate  is 
melted,  stir  in  the  boiling  milk,  add  sugar  to  taste,  cover, 


EGG  AND    WINE.  525 

and  boil  5  minutes  over  boiling  water.  Remove  ;  beat  with 
a  Dover  egg-beater  until  light  and  smooth.  Serve  with  the 
whipped  cream  heaped  upon  the  chocolate  in  the  cup. 

COCOA,  BROMA,  RACAHOUT. 
These  all  have  the  directions  for  making  printed  on  the 
package. 

ICED  COCOA  AS  A  SUMMER  DRINK. 

This  is  very  wholesome  and  innocuous.  Follow  directions 
for  the  proportions  given  on  the  package,  using  |-  of  the 
liquid  allowed,  and  that  water.  When  made  and  well- 
sweetened,  put  it  away  on  the  ice.  Put  cracked  ice  in  a 
tumbler ;  put  £  of  cold  cocoa,  fill  with  ice-cold  milk.  Or, 
have  the  cocoa  made  in  the  proportion  of  |-  of  the  liquid 
allowed  ;  sweeten,  cool  it,  and  use  with  3  parts  of  soda-water. 
It  is  nourishing  as  well  as  refreshing. 

EGG-NOGG. 

3  gills  of  rum,  1  pound  powdered  sugar,  scant, 

1  gill  of  brandy,  1  nutmeg,  grated, 

r  quart  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  of  ground  mace, 

10  eggs,  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  apart. 

Beat  the  yolks  to  a  cream  ;  add  to  them  the  other  ingredi- 
ents ;  adding  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  just  before 
the  cream.  If  bottled  and  put  in  a  cold  place,  will  keep  3  or 
4  days,  but  must  be  shaken  before  being  used.  Recom- 
mended. 

EGG  AND  WINE. 

Break  the  white  of  1  egg  upon  a  plate,  the  yolk  into  a 
tumbler.  Beat  the  yolk  to  a  cream  with  a  small  teaspoonful 
1  of  powdered  sugar ;  add  one  teaspoon  of  sherry  wine  or  \ 
the  quantity  of  brandy  or  rum.  Beat  the  white  to  a  stiff 
froth  ;  then  beat  this  into  the  yolk  until  evenly  and  thor- 
oughly mixed.  A  little  chopped  ice  may  be  beaten  with  the 
yolk  of  egg.  Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  and  serve 
very  cold.  This  is  excellent  for  delicate  people  and  in- 
valids. 


526  GOOD-LIVING. 

MULLED  CLARET. 

VIN   CHAUD. 
I  cup  of  claret,  i  cup  of  boiling  water, 

Grated  nutmeg,  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  soft  sugar, 

6  whole  cloves,  12  whole  allspice, 

4  inches  stick-cinnamon. 

Boil  the  water  with  sugar  and  spices  for  10  to  15  minutes, 
until  thoroughly  flavored  with  the  spices.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  it.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  pour  into  a  covered 
pitcher  through  a  strainer.  Have  the  claret  in  the  pitcher. 
Add  a  little  nutmeg,  and  more  sugar  if  necessary.  Serve 
immediately. 

TEA-PUNCH. 

PONCHE   AU   THE. 
6  lemons,  1  quart  of  strong  green  tea, 

\Yz  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1      "     "  Jamaica  rum. 

Peel  the  thin  yellow  rind  from  the  lemons  ;  squeeze  the 
juice.  Add  these  to  the  sugar.  Pour  the  tea,  while  boiling, 
over  the  sugar.  Add  the  rum.  Bottle,  and  stand  away  for 
use.  Less  rum  may  be  used  if  preferred.  It  should  be 
diluted  with  ice  before  being  used. 

BLACKBERRY  CORDIAL. 

2  pounds  of  sugar,  ^  ounce  of  ground  nutmeg, 

^  ounce  of  ground  cinnamon,         j£        "  "         cloves, 

Yz         "  "      allspice,  1  pint  of  4th-proof  best  French  brandy, 

2  quarts  of  blackberry-juice. 

Boil  the  juice,  sugar,  and  spices  2  hours.  Strain.  Then 
add  immediately  the  brandy.  Bottle  while  hot ;  cork,  seal, 
and  set  away. 

GINGER-BEER. 

1%  pounds  granulated  sugar,  2  ounces  bruised  ginger-root, 

2  ounces  cream  of  tartar,  Juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon, 

4  quarts  of  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  of  yeast  (or  ^  yeast  cake). 

Put  all  the  ingredients  in  a  bowl  with  the  water,  adding 
the  yeast  when  lukewarm.  In  6  hours  strain  ;  put  in  bottles 
with  patent  tops,  for  it  becomes  effervescent.  Keep  in  a 
cool  place. 


CURRANT    WINE.  $2? 

ROOT-BEER. 

The  roots  come  already  prepared  in  small  packages  with 
directions  for  use.     To  be  had  at  the  grocers. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR. 

VINAIGRE   FRAMBOISE. 

i  quart  of  vinegar,  6  quarts  of  raspberries, 

Sugar. 

Pour  the  vinegar  over  3  quarts  of  ripe  raspberries  in  a 
crock;  let  them  steep  24  hours.  Strain.  Pour  this  liquor 
over  3  quarts  of  fresh  raspberries,  and  let  it  infuse  again  24 
hours.  Strain  again.  Measure  the  juice,  and  add  1  pound 
of  white  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Boil  20  minutes  ;  skim, 
bottle  cold.     To  drink,  mix  |-  syrup  with  f-  water. 

LEMON  BRANDY. 

1  pint  of  brandy,  2  ounces  of  granulated  sugar, 
Yellow  rind  of  2  lemons,  1  gill  of  boiling  water. 

Put  the  yellow  rind  (no  white)  into  a  bottle  with  the 
brandy.  Let  it  infuse  24  hours.  Strain.  Boil  the  sugar 
and  water  for  about  4  minutes.  Skim.  When  cold,  add  to 
the  brandy.  Bottle  and  cork  tightly.  Use  as  a  flavoring  for 
custards  and  other  desserts. 

CURRANT  WINE. 

To  1  quart  of  juice  allow: 

2  quarts  of  water  (cold),  3  pounds  of  sugar,  granulated. 

Stir  all  well  together.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Skim.  Set 
in  a  cool  place.  Allow  it  to  ferment  slowly  for  3  or  4  days. 
If  at  the  end  of  that  time  it  has  ceased  fermenting,  add  1 
quart  of  brandy  to  every  15  gallons  of  the  above  mixture. 
Close  the  barrel  tightly,  and  when  it  has  settled  and  become 
clear,  it  is  ready  to  bottle.  Keep  6  months  before  using. 
Improves  with  age. 


528  GOOD-LIVING. 

PHILADELPHIA  FISH-HOUSE  PUNCH. 

To  every  pint  of  lemon-  or  lime-juice  add  3  pints  of  the 
mixture  given  below : 

%  pint  of  Jamaica  rum,  1  gill  of  cognac, 

i  gill  of  best  peach  brandy,  4  pounds  of  loaf  sugar, 

5  quarts  of  water. 

When  ice  is  added,  use  less  water. 

KUMMEL  CORDIAL. 

2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  1  quart  of  best  alcohol, 

1  quart  and  I  gill  of  boiling  water,  25  to  30  drops  of  Ktimmel  Oil. 

Pour  the  boiling  water  on  the  sugar  in  a  china-lined  pre- 
serving-kettle. Stir  over  the  fire  until  dissolved.  Bring  to 
a  boil.  From  the  moment  it  breaks  into  a  boil,  allow  it  to 
boil  20  minutes.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Strain.  When  luke- 
warm, add  the  alcohol  and  oil.  Stir  to  mix  thoroughly. 
Bottle  and  set  away.  Keep  at  least  I  month  before  using. 
This  improves  with  age.  German  apothecaries  sell  this  oil. 
Recommended. 


COOKERY  FOR  INVALIDS. 

BEEF-JUICE. 

Select  a  piece  of  lean,  freshly-killed  beef,  cut  about  f  of  an 
inch  thick.  Broil  it  over  red-hot  coals  for  about  2  minutes 
on  each  side,  no  longer.  Stand  a  cup  in  a  bowl  of  boiling 
water,  and  squeeze  the  beef-juice  into  the  cup  with  a  patent 
beef-  or  lemon-squeezer.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  keep  the 
cup  standing  in  the  hot  water  until  required  for  use.  Noth- 
ing is  more  distasteful  to  a  delicate  appetite  than  half-cold, 
half-cooked  beef-juice.  If  made  as  above,  it  will  have  the 
nutty  flavor  of  the  seared  meat,  and  need  not  be  at  all 
unpalatable. 

PLAIN  BEEF- TEA. 

I  pound  of  lean,  fresh-killed  beef,  I  pint  of  cold  water, 

2  even  teaspoons  of  salt. 

Cut  the  beef  in  very  small  dice,  or,  better  still,  have  the 
butcher  criss-cross  or  hackle  it  with  a  sharp  butcher's  knife. 
Cover  it  with  the  cold  water ;  add  salt ;  soak  I  hour.  Put 
the  bowl  or  cup  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  let  it 
heat  over  the  fire  until  it  nearly  reaches  boiling-point.  On 
no  account  allow  it  to  boil.  Strain  the  pieces  of  meat  out 
through  a  rather  coarse  strainer,  and  serve  immediately  with 
a  small  bit  of  toast. 

DELICIOUS  BEEF- TEA. 

Prepare  the  beef  as  in  preceding  receipt.     Put  it  into  a 
perfectly  clean  bottle.     Add  a  little  salt,  a  sprig  of  parsley, 
and  i  or  2  fresh  celery-leaves.      Add  the  water,  I  pint,  cold. 
34  529 


530  GOOD-LIVING. 

Cork  tightly ;  put  the  bottle  into  a  pot  of  lukewarm  water 
and  let  it  come  gradually  to  a  boil.  Boil  3  or  4  hours.  It 
maybe  used  after  2  hours,  but  is  even  better  if  cooked  longer. 
Uncork;  strain  and  serve  with  toast.  This  is  acceptable  to 
many  invalids  who  do  not  like  ordinary  beef-tea. 

FLOUR-BALL  FOR  INFANTS'  FOOD. 
Tie  1  pint  of  flour  as  closely  as  possible  in  a  strong  cotton 
cloth.  Put  it  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water  and  boil  4  hours. 
Be  sure  it  is  well-covered  with  water.  The  pot  should  be 
covered.  Then  take  the  ball  out  and  set  aside  to  cool.  To 
use  it,  scrape  a  little  of  the  ball  ;  mix  with  cold  water  or 
milk ;  stir  into  boiling  milk ;  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
make  thicker  or  thinner  as  may  be  required.  The  flour-ball 
will  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place  for  weeks. 

KUMYSS. 

1  quart  of  new  milk,  i  tablespoon  of  brewer's  yeast, 

2  tablespoons  of  Trommer  Malt  Extract. 

Mix  and  set  by  the  range  at  a  temperature  of  900  Fahr. 
until  it  begins  to  work,  then  pour  it  off  into  self-sealing 
beer-bottles  and  set  in  a  cool  place.     Recommended. 

PARCHED  RICE. 

Roast  the  rice  until  of  a  rich,  even  brown.  Throw  into 
salted  boiling  water  and  boil  until  perfectly  tender.  Do  not 
stir  if  it  can  be  avoided.     Drain.     Serve  with  sugar. 

RICE-WATER. 
Proceed  as  above,  boiling  the  rice  a  little  longer.     Strain 
out  the  grains,  and  use  the  water. 

TOAST-WATER. 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread ;  toast  over  a  slow  fire  until  very 
dry  and  evenly  brown,  not  burned.  Put  into  a  pitcher ; 
cover  with  boiling  water.  Infuse  for  1  or  2  hours ;  strain 
the  water  and  use. 


See  receipt. 
See  receipt. 
See  receipt. 
See  receipt. 
See  receipt. 
See  receipt. 


INDIAN-MEAL   GRUEL.  53 1 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

EGG-NOGG. 

EGG-AND-WINE. 

MULLED  CLARET. 

CHICKEN  CONSOMME. 

CHICKEN  JELL  Y. 


ARROW-ROOT  BLANC-MANGE. 

I  cup  of  boiling  water,  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  arrow-root, 

Sugar,  sherry  wine,  and  nutmeg. 

When  the  water  boils,  blend  the  arrow-root  with  a  very- 
little  cold  water ;  pour  it  into  the  boiling  water  ;  stir  steadily 
until  it  becomes  thick  and  transparent.  Remove  from  the 
fire  ;  then  stir  in  sugar  to  taste.  Add  2  or  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
sherry ;  mix ;  pour  into  a  tumbler ;  grate  a  little  nutmeg 
over  the  top,  and  set  away  to  cool.  It  will  become  firmer  as 
it  cools,  but  should  never  be  hard.     Excellent. 

INDIAN-MEAL  GRUEL. 

Blend  2  tablespoonfuls  of  Indian  meal  with  a  little  cold 
water.  Have  ready  boiling  1  quart  of  well-salted  water. 
Stir  in  the  meal.  Stir  for  a  few  minutes,  then  set  where  it 
will  boil  gently  for  4  hours.  Stir  occasionally.  Do  not 
cover  the  pot.  Serve  with  a  little  cream  added.  Or,  blend 
I  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  cold  water  ;  stir  it  into 
the  boiling  gruel ;  boil  3  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  and 
serve. 


STRAY  NOTES. 

CHOPPING  MACHINE. 

Much  time  is  saved  and  excellent  results  are  obtained  by 
the  use  of  the  "  Enterprise  Chopper."  Number  10  is  small, 
but  serviceable  ;  No.  3  is  an  excellent  size  for  general  utility. 
It  is  a  most  efficient  aid  in  making  croquettes,  pates,  meat- 
loaves,  etc. 

VEGETABLE  PRESS. 

For  making  purees  of  all  kinds  there  is  an  excellent,  small 
hand-press  manufactured  by  the  Silver  Co.  It  is  not  only  an 
economy  of  labor  and  time,  but  also  of  sieves,  as  the  usual 
mode  of  pressing  the  pur£e  through  a  coarse  sieve  wears  out 
the  latter  very  rapidly. 

EGG-BE  A  TERS. 

The  best  and  most  reliable  egg-beater  is  either  the 
"  Dover"  or  one  which  is  made  of  a  bunch  of  wires  fastened 
together  by  a  wire  handle. 

ICE-CREAM  FREEZER. 

The  White  Mountain  Freezer  is  recommended  as  being 
about  the  most  practical  at  the  present  time. 

FR  YING-BA  SKE  T. 

This  is  an  indispensable  article  where  well-fried  croquettes, 
etc.,  are  desired.  Being  of  very  moderate  cost,  no  kitchen 
should  be  without  one.  These  baskets  are  made  of  fine 
wire  woven  in  large  meshes. 

532 


STRAY  NOTES.  533 

SHEETS  OF  TIN  OR  IRON. 

Have  at  hand  2  or  3  sheets  of  iron  or  tin,  12  x  14  or  16 
inches,  for  baking  drop-cakes  and  all  such  things  as  might  be 
disfigured  by  being  lifted  over  the  rim  of  a  baking-pan. 
They  will  be  found  very  useful. 

PICKLES  AND  PRESERVES. 

Use  for  putting  up  pickles  and  preserves  the  "  Mason's 
Latest  Improved  "  jars,  with  wide  mouths.  They  are  the 
best  made,  the  cover  being  in  one  piece  and  so  arranged  that 
no  metal  comes  in  contact  with  the  contents  of  the  jars. 

TO  TRUSS  SMALL  BIRDS. 

Use  small  wooden  toothpicks  for  skewering  small  birds. 
Do  not  remove  them  before  serving,  as  they  help  to  give  a 
trim  appearance  to  the  birds. 

PLANKED  SHAD. 

For  planked  shad  use  a  thick,  handsome  oak-board.  At- 
tach the  shad  with  white  tacks  or  wooden  pegs.  When  ready 
to  serve,  remove  the  tacks  or  pegs  and  serve  on  the  oak 
plank. 

TO  OPEN  CLAMS  WITHOUT  A  KNIFE. 

Wash  the  shells  ;  stand  them  on  the  hinge-end  in  a  bake- 
pan.  Put  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water  in  the  pan  ;  set 
the  pan  in  the  oven  until  the  shells  part,  when  they  may  be 
easily  opened  and  cooked  as  required. 

TO  SELECT  OYSTERS. 

Choose  by  preference  for  eating  raw  on  the  half-shell,  very 
small  Blue  Points.  For  cooking,  especially  for  frying,  the 
best  are  the  Shrewsburys  and  Saddle  Rocks. 


534  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  SELECT  LOBSTERS. 

If  possible,  never  buy  a  lobster  that  is  already  boiled.  If 
unavoidable,  however,  you  may  ascertain  the  condition  of 
the  lobster,  when  cooked,  by  pressing  the  tail  outward.  If 
it  is  elastic  and,  when  released,  flies  back  instantly  to  its  first 
position,  you  may  know  that  it  was  alive  when  put  down  to 
boil.  The  tail  should  be  curled  inward  as  an  indication  also 
of  the  same  fact. 

VENISON. 

Venison  is  best  when  it  has  been  frozen  and  partially 
thawed  2  or  3  times.  In  winter  it  will  keep  for  6  weeks,  if 
hung  in  the  open  air.  When  cut  into  steaks  and  set  in  the 
ice-box,  it  will  not  keep  any  longer  than  other  meats. 

ROAST  TURKEY. 
For  roasting,  select  by  preference  a  young  hen-turkey. 

SWEETBREADS. 

Always  cook  sweetbreads  in  a  china-lined  saucepan,  and 
use  a  silver  or  plated  knife  to  cut  them,  as  steel  is  considered 
to  be  injurious  both  to  flavor  and  color. 

BEEF'S  LIVER. 

Before  cooking  sliced  beef's  liver,  always  throw  boiling 
water  over  it ;  let  it  stand  5  minutes  ;  then  wipe  dry  and 
proceed  with  the  cooking. 

LARDING-PORK. 

Larding-pork  should  be  thrown  into  ice-water  before  using, 
to  harden  it. 

CALF'S  HEAD. 

In  preparing  calf 's  head  for  cooking,  be  most  careful  to 
cleanse  not  only  the  ears,  but  also  scald  out  with  boiling 
water  the  nose  and  throat  passages. 


STRA  Y  NOTES.  535 

HAM  BONE. 
When  a  ham  is  consumed,  always  use  the  bone  to  boil  in 
pease  soup.     It  is  an  excellent  addition. 

COLD  GAME  AND  MEA  T 
To  keep  overnight  cooked  game  or  meat  that  has  been 
cut,  so  that  it  may  remain  moist  and  fresh,  wrap  it  in  con- 
fectioner's paper  and  place  it  in  the  ice-box.     Cut  cake  may 
be  kept  in  the  same  way. 

TO  THAW  FROZEN  MEATS. 

The  best  way  to  thaw  frozen  meat,  is  to  hang  it  in  the 
kitchen  overnight.  If  in  a  hurry  to  thaw  poultry,  the 
quickest  way  is  to  lay  it  in  a  pan  with  ice  or  ice-water  ;  but 
it  is  best  to  avoid  this,  if  possible. 

TO  PRESERVE  TURKEYS  AND  CHICKENS. 

Joint  them  after  cleaning ;  cut  up  as  for  fricassee.  Put 
the  pieces  into  a  hot  frying-pan  with  drippings  or  butter  and 
let  them  sear  on  all  sides.  Then  put  them  into  an  earthen- 
ware crock.  Melt  lard  or  clarified  drippings ;  pour  into  the 
crock  until  the  chicken  is  quite  covered.  This  seals  the 
meat  from  the  air  when  cold.  In  winter  it  will  keep  for 
weeks  in  a  cool  place,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  freeze.  When 
ready  to  use,  take  out  what  is  required ;  scrape  off  the  fat, 
and  prepare  according  to  taste,  fricasseed,  stewed,  etc.,  etc. 
If  any  remains  in  the  crock,  seal  it  as  before  with  hot  lard 
and  set  away. 

TO  KEEP  SAUSAGES. 

Prick  with  a  fork.  Toss  in  a  hot  frying-pan  until  cooked 
on  all  sides ;  put  into  a  crock  with  lard,  etc.,  and  seal  as 
above. 

PHEASANTS,  PARTRIDGES,  AND  QUAIL. 

Always  cover  the  breasts  of  these  birds  before  cooking 
with  thin  slices  of  pork,  unless  larded  ;  they  are  naturally 


536  GOOD-LIVING. 

dry  birds,  and  this  greatly  improves  them.  Do  not  use 
bacon  for  the  purpose,  as  its  flavor  is  so  pronounced  that  it 
overpowers  that  of  the  bird. 

MEATS  TO  BE  SERVED  COLD. 

Tongue  should  be  allowed  to  get  cold  first  in  the  water  in 
which  it  is  boiled.  If  it  is  to  be  put  away  cold  afterwards,  it 
should  be  rolled  in  a  clean,  coarse  cloth  and  set  in  the  ice- 
box. Corn-beef  should  also  be  allowed  to  cool  in  the  water 
in  which  it  is  boiled.  A  la  Mode  Beef  or  Daube  should  be 
put  into  a  large  bowl,  covered  with  their  own  hot  gravy, 
shut  up  tight,  and  set  away.  Chickens,  stewed  and  fricasseed 
should  be  treated  in  the  same  way.  Save  all  the  gravy  for 
the  purpose.  The  usual  mode  of  thrusting  the  meat  into 
the  ice-box,  leaving  it  to  dry  out  as  it  cools,  is  a  mistake  ;  it 
makes  the  surfaces  dry  and  juiceless,  and,  as  a  rule,  most  un- 
appetizing. When  gravy  is  lacking,  a  little  good  broth  may 
be  used  to  pour  over  the  meat  or  chicken  before  it  is  set 
away  to  cool,  covered. 

TO  MAKE.  TOUGH  MEAT  TENDER. 

Cut  the  steaks  the  day  before  they  are  required  into 
slices  about  2  inches  thick.  Rub  the  surfaces  with  a  little 
baking-soda.  Next  morning,  wash  off  the  soda ;  cut  the 
meat  into  the  shape  and  thickness  desired,  and  cook  it  to 
taste.  The  same  process  may  be  used  for  poultry,  mutton, 
etc. 

TO  MAKE  CHICKENS  WHITE  AND   TENDER. 

The  moment  before  they  are  to  be  killed,  make  them 
swallow  1  tablespoonful  of  best  vinegar,  then  finish  as 
usual. 

RULE  FOR  BOILING  PEAS,  ETC. 

Never  put  the  lid  on  the  pot  while  boiling  spinach,  peas, 
beans,  or  Brussels  sprouts.  By  observing  this  rule,  the  vege- 
tables will  be  found  to  preserve  their  fresh  green  color. 


STRAY  NOTES.  537 


TO  POACH  EGGS. 


Note  that  in  poaching  eggs,  the  water  should  not  boil 
after  the  egg  is  put  into  it,  as  the  jumping  of  the  water  in 
ebullition  makes  the  edges  ragged  and  untidy.  The  eggs 
should  cook  slowly  and  quietly.  Be  sure,  however,  that  the 
water  boils  when  the  egg  is  put  in. 

WA  TER  OF  BOILED  POT  A  TOES. 

The  water  in  which  potatoes  are  boiled  with  their  skins  on 
is  said  to  be  poisonous.  It  is  said  to  be  excellent  for  de- 
stroying green-fly  on  rose-bushes. 

OYSTER-PLANT. 

Never  expose  this  to  the  air  when  once  it  is  scraped. 
Throw  it  immediately  into  cold  water.  Cook  in  a  china- 
lined  saucepan,  as  iron  also  discolors  it. 

TO  PEEL  ONIONS. 

Put  the  onions  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water.  Peel  them  with  a 
sharp  knife  under  water.     This  saves  tears. 

TO  BOIL  CAULIFLOWER. 

To,  prevent  breaking  the  flower,  tie  it  in  a  piece  of  clean 
cheese-cloth.  When  boiled,  it  can  be  raised  out  of  the  pot 
by  the  tied  corners  of  the  cloth  without  risk  of  injuring  the 
beauty  of  the  cauliflower. 

TO   SOFTEN    THE     WATER    FOR    BOILING 
VEGETABLES. 

Use  a  pinch  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda  for  softening  the  water 
in  which  to  boil  beans,  limas,  asparagus  tips,  etc.,  only  when 
the  water  is  very  hard,  or  the  peas  very  old. 


538  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  BOIL  CABBAGE. 

Never  boil  cabbage  with  corn-beef ;  it  renders  both  un- 
wholesome.    Boil  apart,  and  serve  together,  if  desired. 

TO  BAKE  SWEET  POTATOES 

In  such  a  way  as  to  make  them  peel  easily,  after  they 
have  been  well  squeezed  in  a  cloth  several  times  during  the 
process  of  baking,  put  them  in  a  pan  ;  cover  the  pan  with  a 
damp  cloth  folded  in  4  or  8 ;  set  back  in  the  corner  of  the 
range  and  leave  them  15  to  20  minutes. 

TO  BOIL  PEAS  TENDER. 

Observe  two  things :  first,  have  plenty  of  water  in  which 
they  can  play  about ;  second,  do  not  cover  them. 

TO  FRESHEN  SALT  FISH. 

Lay  in  cold  water,  carefully  turning  the  skin  side  upper- 
most. Otherwise  the  salt,  in  melting,  will  sink  into  the  skin 
and  the  fish  be  as  salt  as  ever.  By  putting  the  flesh  side 
downward,  the  salt  falls  to  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 

PEPPER. 

White  pepper  is  recommended  for  general  use  in  the 
kitchen  in  preference  to  black,  as  being  less  unwholesome 
and  more  palatable.  The  latter  need  only  be  used  occa- 
sionally, as  directed,  and  then  in  most  cases,  whole. 

TO  SKIM  SA  UCE. 

To  do  this  easily,  draw  the  saucepan  to  the  side  of  the 

range ;  pour  in  a  very  few  drops  of  cold  water.     This  causes 

the  grease  to  rise,  and  it  may  be  removed  without  trouble. 
23 


STRAY  NOTES.  539 

BREAD-CRUMBS. 

These  are  so  valuable  in  the  kitchen,  and  in  such  constant 
demand,  that  it  is  well  to  make  every  few  days  a  supply  to 
keep  on  hand.  Put  any  pieces  of  stale  bread  there  may  be 
in  a  roasting-pan  ;  stand  it  in  the  open  oven  until  perfectly 
dry,  but  not  at  all  brown.  Roll  these  out  on  a  board  with 
the  rolling-pin.  Sift  them.  The  very  finest,  put  into  a 
separate  jar  for  dipping  oysters  and  croquettes  ;  others  may 
be  used  for  breading  meats,  baked  dishes,  etc.  The  stock  of 
bread-crumbs  should  never  be  allowed  to  run  out.  Another 
excellent  way  to  crumb  the  bread  is  to  put  it,  when  dried, 
into  a  coarse,  clean  cloth  and  beat  it  with  the  potato-masher. 
Sift  as  directed. 

CRUMBED  HARD  EGGS. 

These  may  be  used  as  a  variety  to  sift  over  sweetbreads  or 
chicken,  etc.,  "  en  caisses,"  instead  of  bread-crumbs.  When 
the  eggs  are  boiled  hard,  remove  the  whites  and  press  the 
yolks  through  a  coarse  sieve  with  the  potato-masher. 

DIPPING  FOR  FRYING. 

It  is  recommended  by  some  authorities  to  dip  certain  arti- 
cles such  as  fish,  first  in  breadcrumbs,  then  in  egg,  and  again 
in  crumbs.  This  process  makes  the  dipping  cling  better. 
The  French  dip  meat-cutlets  and  chops  into  crumbs  only,  if 
perfectly  freshly  cut ;  or  into  melted  butter  and  then  into 
crumbs.  For  croquettes,  where  it  is  necessary  sometimes  to 
have  a  firmer  covering,  they  may  be  dipped  twice,  always 
alternating,  first  in  the  egg,  then  the  crumbs,  allowing  the 
croquettes  to  stand  some  time  before  the  second  dipping. 
It  is  recommended  also  by  the  above-mentioned  authority,  to 
mix  a  little  melted  butter  with  the  yolk  of  egg  where  this 
latter  is  used  for  dipping.  In  all  cases  the  most  important 
point  in  successful  frying,  is  that  the  lard  be  boiling. 


540  GOOD-L/VING. 

TO  PRESERVE   EGGS. 

Dip  in  melted  suet  and  pack  with  the  smaller  end  down- 
ward in  salt.  Or,  make  a  solution  of  i  gallon  of  boiling  water 
poured  over  I  pound  of  unslacked  lime  ;  cool  thoroughly 
and  pour  over  the  eggs  which  have  been  packed,  small  end 
downwards,  in  jars.  Do  not  use  the  sediment  of  the  lime- 
water.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  The  object  is  to  stop 
up  the  pores  of  the  eggs. 

TO  CLARIFY  DRIPPINGS. 

Select  beef-suet  for  the  purpose  by  preference,  but  any  fat 
trimmings  (excepting  those  of  mutton  and  lamb)  may  also 
be  tried  out.  Cut  the  suet  into  moderate-sized  pieces.  Put 
these  into  a  crock  with  a  little  boiling  water.  Set  the  crock 
in  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  put  all  in  one  corner  of  the 
range,  where  the  suet  will  melt  slowly.  The  fat  may  be 
poured  off  into  a  clean  bowl  as  it  melts,  a  little  more  boiling 
water  being  added.  It  should  always  be  strained.  Next 
day  collect  all  the  drippings  together  and  put  them  as  above 
over  boiling  water.  When  melted  and  brought  to  boiling 
point,  strain  into  a  crock  and  set  away.  Keep  in  a  cold 
place  and  use  for  saut^ing,  etc.  All  fat  should  be  saved  from 
soups,  etc.,  and  at  least  once  a  week  be  clarified  as  directed. 
This  will  be  found  to  be  a  great  economy  of  butter. 

TO  CLEAN  DRIED  CURRANTS. 

To  each  quart  of  dried  currants  add  i  cup  of  flour  ;  rub 
them  well  between  the  hands.  This  will  free  them  from 
stems,  etc.  Then  turn  into  a  colander  and  shake  out  the 
stems  ;  put  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  and  wash  thor- 
oughly with  both  hands.  Drain  in  a  colander,  letting  the 
water  wash  through  them  until  all  the  remaining  stems  are 
carried  off.  Then  spread  them  on  fiat  dishes  in  the  mouth 
of  the  oven  or  other  warm  place  ;  leave  until  dry  ;  then  use. 


STRAY  NOTES.  54 1 

TO  STONE  RAISINS. 

Throw  them  into  a  bowl  of  boiling  water.  As  soon  as 
they  are  cool  enough  to  handle,  stone  them  in  the  water  and 
throw  them  into  a  bowl. 

ORANGE-PEEL  FOR  CAKES. 

When  oranges  are  abundant,  take  the  skins.  Boil  I  pound 
of  these  until  perfectly  tender  ;  chop  them  fine  ;  to  I  gill  of 
the  water  in  which  the  skins  have  boiled,  add  I  pound  of 
brown  sugar  and  the  skins  ;  boil  all  together  until  very  thick, 
and  put  into  a  wide-mouthed  jar  to  use  for  flavoring. 

YEAST. 
One  cup  of  yeast  is  equal  to  I  compressed  yeast-cake. 

BREAD. 

A  loaf  when  risen  ready  for  the  oven  should  be  at  least 
twice  the  size  it  was  when  first  put  in  the  bread-pan  to  rise. 

TO  GREASE  BREAD-PANS. 

Always  grease  bread-  and  cake-pans  with  lard,  not  with 
butter,  as  the  latter  blackens  in  long  baking.  When  the 
loaves  come  out  of  the  oven,  stand  them  on  end,  not  touch- 
ing each  other,  and  cover  with  a  very  thin  cloth.  A  thick 
cloth  makes  the  crusts  soft  and  soggy.  It  only  requires  suf- 
cient  covering  to  keep  off  dust  and  flies. 

TO  HEA  T  THE  GRIDDLE  FOR   GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

It  should  be  put  on  the  back  of  the  range  several  hours 
before  using,  that  it  may  heat  slowly.  When  ready,  bring 
it  forward  and  let  it  become  very  hot  indeed,  but  not 
scorching. 


542  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  GREASE  THE  GRIDDLE. 

Use  a  piece  of  fat  pork  on  the  end  of  a  fork.  Keep  it  for 
the  purpose. 

TO  REDUCE   THE   TEMPERATURE  OF  AN  OVER- 
HEATED   OVEN. 

Shut  off  all  draughts  and  open  the  dampers.  Set  a  bowl 
of  ice-water  inside  of  the  door  and  close  it.  This  will  affect 
the  temperature  sensibly.  Should  it  not  suffice,  however, 
open  the  range-cover  directly  over  the  oven,  leaving  a  space 
of  about  f  of  an  inch.  This  is  only  suggested  as  a  last 
resource,  as  cake  is  rendered  less  light  by  the  process. 

TO  CHECK  BOILING  SYRUP. 

In  preserving,  the  syrup  sometimes  begins  to  rise  so  rap- 
idly that  there  is  no  time  to  move  the  heavy  kettle  aside. 
In  such  a  case  throw  in  about  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water 
and  it  will  subside  immediately. 

CAKE-BAKING. 

Do  not  begin  to  mix  your  cake  until  the  fire  is  in  perfect 
condition,  and  you  have  at  hand  every  thing  you  may  require. 
Use  only  the  best  butter,  and  fine,  dry  flour.  Mix  with  a 
wooden  spoon  in  a  large  bowl.  Always  grease  loaf-pans, 
whether  for  bread  or  cake,  with  lard,  itot  butter,  as  the  latter 
scorches  and  blackens  in  long  baking.  The  pan  for  loaf-cake 
should  always  be  lined  with  a  very  thin  paper  thoroughly 
greased,  to  keep  it  from  sticking  to  the  bottom,  as  well  as 
from  scorching.  The  paper  should  be  left  on  the  cake  until 
the  latter  is  cold,  then  carefully  removed. 

Do  not  ice  cake  until  cold.  For  baking  drop  or  other 
small  cakes,  have  at  hand  2  or  3  sheets  of  tin  or  iron.  These 
will  be  found  to  be  much  more  convenient  for  the  purpose 
than  baking-pans.  There  are  pans  made  expressly  for  baking 
lady-fingers  and  Eclairs. 


STRA  V  NOTES.  543 

BAKING-PO  WDER. 

Royal  Baking-Powder  is  the  best  for  raising  cakes,  etc.  It 
seems  to  be  perfectly  harmless,  and  is  certainly  stronger  than 
the  others.  The  next  best  is  Cleveland's,  which  is  also  very 
good,  but  not  as  strong.  Where  3  teaspoonfuls  of  Cleve- 
land's are  required,  2  of  Royal  Baking-Powder  will  be  found 
to  have  quite  as  much  effect. 

In  most  cases  where  baking-powder  is  required,  you  may 
substitute  I  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  \  teaspoonful 
of  soda  for  1  of  baking-powder. 

FRUIT  PIES. 

In  making  fruit  pies,  fasten  a  narrow  band  of  muslin 
around,  covering  the  edge  of  the  pies.  When  they  are 
baked,  remove  the  muslin.  This  keeps  in  the  juice  and  pre- 
vents the  besmeared,  untidy  look  which  fruit  pies  generally 
have. 

THE  USE  OF  RUM  IN  COOKING. 

Rum  is  an  excellent  addition,  in  the  way  of  flavoring,  to 
many  sweet  sauces,  cakes,  etc.  Wherever  called  for  by  a 
receipt,  always  use  Jamaica  rum  ;  no  other  brand  is  suitable 
for  the  purpose. 

CROUTONS  AS  A  GARNISH. 

Croutons  cut  in  diamonds  about  3  inches  long,  make  a 
nice  border  for  sweetbreads,  stewed  kidneys,  fricassees,  etc. 
When  cut  in  cubes  1x2  inches,  they  make  an  excellent  gar- 
nish for  stewed  fish,  besides  being  an  agreeable  addition  to 
the  dish. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Stewed  mushrooms  may  be  served  on  croutons  3x3 
inches,  or  in  individual  silver  casseroles,  or  in  china  cases. 


544  GOOD-LIVING. 

PASTRY  CROUTONS  AS  A  GARNISH. 

Roll  out  Flaky  Crust  or  Puff  Paste  £  of  an  inch  thick  ; 
cut  it  in  large  diamonds,  bake,  and  use  to  garnish  the  bor- 
ders of  stews,  etc. 

TO  SERVE  CORN. 

There  are  made  at  present,  in  very  prettily  embroidered 
designs,  corn-cloths,  which  replace  most  advantageously  the 
prevailing  custom  of  serving  green  corn  in  a  folded  table- 
napkin,  to  keep  it  hot. 

TO  SERVE  CROQUETTES,  ETC. 

Cut  papers  may  be  used  not  only  under  cakes  and  sweets, 
but  may,  with  great  advantage,  replace  the  folded  table- 
napkin  in  many  cases,  especially  under  croquettes,  fried  fish, 
etc.,  in  fact,  under  any  thing  that  is  fried  dry.  They  are 
now  made  at  little  cost ;  the  plainer  designs  are  more  suita- 
ble for  the  latter  purpose,  the  lace-bordered  ones  being  gen- 
erally used  for  sweets.  The  English  make  particularly  pretty 
designs  for  the  former  use. 

TO  SERVE  FRENCH  CHOPS,  ETC. 

French  chops,  leg  of  mutton,  ham,  and  barbecued  hare  or 
rabbit  should  always  be  served  with  paper  frills  to  cover  the 
ends  of  the  bones.  These  frills  are  to  be  had  of  various 
sizes,  and  at  small  expense. 

TO  SERVE  WELSH  RARE-BITS,  ETC. 

Use  for  all  dishes  made  of  cheese,  a  hot-water  plate  ;  this 
is  the  only  way  to  accomplish  the  necessary  object  of  serv- 
ing the  above  perfectly  hot. 

TO  REMOVE  FRUIT  STAINS  FROM  LINEN. 

Pour  boiling  water  through  the  spot  before  washing.  Rub. 
If  this  does  not  succeed,  moisten  the  spot  and  hold  under  it 
a  lighted  match.     The  sulphurous  gas  will  cause  the  stain  to 


STRAY  NOTES.  545 

disappear,  it  is  said.  Should  this  not  be  satisfactory,  moisten 
the  spot,  rub  it  with  a  little  salts-of-lemon.  Hang  it  in  the 
sun  for  a  few  minutes,  then  wash  out  thoroughly.  This  is 
good  for  extreme  cases,  but  risks  removing  the  fabric  with 
the  spot.  Peach  stains  are  especially  obstinate,  but  will  be 
found  to  disappear  by  degrees  in  the  ordinary  course  of 
time  and  washing. 

TO  REMOVE  MILDEW  STAINS. 

Soak  in  milk  for  48  hours.  Or,  rub  with  lemon-juice  and 
salt.     The  same  remark  applies  to  these  as  to  peach  stains. 

THE  ICE-BOX. 

This  is  a  detail  about  which  many  cooks  are  not  suffi- 
ciently nice.  If  the  ice-box  is  not  kept  perfectly  sweet,  the 
articles  of  food  put  into  it  will  not  be  sweet  either.  It  should 
have  a  very  thorough  cleaning  from  top  to  bottom  at  least 
once  a  week  in  winter,  twice  a  week  in  summer,  the  water 
being  emptied  every  day  without  fail.  When  the  box  is 
emptied,  and  thoroughly  cleaned  and  overhauled,  if  any 
close  smell  should  be  perceived,  wet  a  cloth  with  vinegar, 
wash  over  every  part,  and  then  leave  the  doors  open  until 
dry  and  well-aired.  Allow  no  corner  to  be  overlooked,  if  it 
is  to  be  kept  in  perfect  condition. 

Never  allow  butter  to  be  kept  in  the  same  compartment 
of  the  box  with  any  thing  except  sweet  cream  or  unopened 
bottles.  Nothing  so  quickly  absorbs  the  taste  of  other 
things.  The  presence  of  lemons  or  melons  will  destroy 
the  best  butter  ever  made. 

TO  PRESERVE  ICE  IN  THE  ICE-BOX. 

One  of  the  best  ways,  when  one's  supply  of  ice  begins  to 
run  short,  is  to  wrap  the  ice  in  several  thicknesses  of  news- 
paper.    Wash  well  before  using. 


546  GOOD-LIVING. 

TO  REMOVE  RUST  FROM  STEEL. 

Cover  the  steel  with  sweet  oil,  well  rubbed  in.  After  48 
hours,  rub  it  with  finely-powdered,  unslacked  lime,  until  the 
rust  disappears. 

N.  B. — Do  not  let  the  lime  touch  the  hands  or  it  will 
burn  them. 

REMEDY  FOR  BURNS. 

Grate  or  scrape  a  raw  potato  ;  cover  the  burned  part  with 
it.  As  soon  as  it  becomes  hot,  renew  it ;  continue  to  renew 
at  intervals  until  relieved.  Very  simple,  but  most  effica- 
cious.    Highly  recommended. 

TO  REMOVE  THE  UNPLEASANT  ODOR  FROM 
FEATHER  PLLLOWS. 

Hang  them  in  a  strong  wind  on  a  cloudy  day  ;  do  not 
put  them  in  the  sun. 

NOTE. 

In  towns,  all  garbage  should  be  burned  ;  this  is  by  far  the 
cleanest  and  healthiest  mode  of  disposing  of  it,  and  is  per- 
fectly practicable. 

TO  SET  THE  COLOR  LN  CALLCOES. 

Dissolve  2  gills  of  salt  in  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  and, 
while  hot,  put  the  dress  into  it.  Let  it  remain  for  several 
hours  ;  then  dry  it,  after  which  wash  as  usual.  Powdered 
alum  is  also  used  for  the  same  purpose. 

TO  REMOVE  1 RON-RUST  STAINS  FROM  LINEN. 

When  the  article  is  washed,  squeeze  lemon-juice  upon  the 
spots  ;  cover  them  with  salt ;  lay  them  on  the  grass  in  the 
sun  all  day.  Wash  again,  and  in  most  cases  the  spots  will 
have  vanished  ;  if  not,  repeat  the  application. 


STRAY  NOTES.  547 

WASH  FOR  CLEANING  GLOVES. 

i  quart  of  deodorized  benzine,  I  drachm  of  sulphuric  ether, 

I  drachm  of  chloroform,  2  drachms  of  alcohol, 

A  little  cologne  or  other  perfume. 

Mix  together  in  a  bottle  and  cork  tightly.  Wash  the 
gloves  in  the  preparation  as  you  would  wash  a  handkerchief 
in  water.  It  evaporates  very  rapidly.  Hang  the  gloves  in 
the  open  air  to  dry.     This  mixture  is  very  inflammable. 

WASHING  FLUID. 

4  gallons  of  water,  y£  pound  of  unslacked  lime, 

2  pounds  of  washing  soda. 

Mix ;  when  settled  and  cold,  skim  off  all  scum.  Bring 
to  a  boil ;  remove  from  the  fire.  Let  it  settle,  and  pour  off 
the  clear  fluid  into  stone  jars  for  use.  Or,  bottle  it,  and  cork 
tightly.  For  washing,  use  I  cup  of  the  fluid  to  I  pail  of 
water.     This  resembles  Javelle  water. 

FURNITURE  POLISH. 

4  ounces  of  gum  shellac,  I  pint  of  alcohol, 

I  piece  of  gum  benzoin,  as  large  as  a  hickory-nut. 

Mix,  and  rub  on  the  furniture  with  a  piece  of  canton-flan- 
nel or  cotton-batting.     If  it  is  sticky,  use  a  little  raw  oil. 


INDEX. 


ABRICOTS,  croute  aux,  485 
Agneau  en  caisses,  130 
Agneau  cotelettes  grillees,  128 
"      croquettes,  131 
"       epigramme,  sauce  tartare,  129 
"       langues  d',  129 

"      a  la  tartare,  130 
"      sauce  tomate,  130 
"       poitrine  braisee,  128 
"      quartier  roti,  128 
"       rognons,  130 
"      rognons  grilles,  130 
Alaska,  roasted  ice-cream,  499 
Allemande  sauce,  248 
"      (    "        No.  II.,  50 
"       a.  la  Hollandaise,  49 
"        "     maitre  d'hotel,  49 
"      sauce  tartare,  50 
Almond-paste  filling,  420 
Almonds,  salted,  344 
Alose  farcie,  No.  I.,  49 
Amber  consomme,  7 
"       pudding,  444 
Amherst  ' '        447 

Ananas,  creme  glacee  a.  1',  495,  497 
"        glace  a.  1',  502 
"        mousse  a  1',  496 
"        neige  a  1',  467 
Anchovy  with  poached  eggs,  360 
"        sauce,  250 
"        toast,  343 
Angel  cake,  395 
Anguilles,  frites,  55 
"  grillees,  55 

"  en  matelote,  54 

"  a.  la  poulette,  55 

Apple   Charlotte,  483 
"      cheese  cakes,  418 
"      dried,  cake,  399 
"      dumplings,  boiled,  449 
"      fritters,  478 
"      and  orange  salad,  488 
"      pie,  431 
"      pudding,  frozen,  497 


Apple  pudding,  old-fashioned,  449 
"       spiced,  436 
"      sauce,  262 
"      sponge,  486 
"      tart,  creamed,  435 
"      whip,  474 
Apricot,  filling,  419 

"         toast,  485 
Archangel  cake,  395 
Arrowroot,  blanc-mange,  531 
jelly,  531 
"  souffle,  480 

"  soup,  11 

Artichauts,  312 

Artichokes,  French  or  globe,  312 
Jerusalem,  baked,  311 
"  braised,  311 

"  chips,  311 

"  a.  la  creme,  310 

"  au  gratin,  311 

"  puree,  311 

"  salad,  329 

Asado  (spanish  fricassee),  189 
Asparagus,  to  boil,  287 
"  salad,  328 

"  soup,  25 

"  tips,  stewed,  288 

Asperges,  en  branches,  287 
"  creme  d',  25 

"  en  petits-pois,  288 

"  "  salade,  328 

Aubergine,  a  la  Creole,  297 
' '  farcie,  298 

frite,  298 
Aurora  loaf  cake,  396 

BACALAO  a.  la  Vizcaina,  58 
Bacon,  in  batter,  173 
Bacon,  and  beans,  creole,  308 
' '      and  eggs,  364 
"      fried,  No.  I,,  173 
"  "      No.  II.,  173 

"      toasted,  173 
Balls,  codfish,  59. 


549 


55o 


INDEX. 


Balls,    force-meat     (for    calf 's  -  head 
soup),    13 
"    force-meat,  No.  I.,  235 

No.  II.,  235 
"  "  oyster,  235 

"      ham,  169 
"      herring,  64 
Baking-powder  (note),  543 
Bananas,  fried,  487 
Bar,  sauce  tartare,  47 
"    aux  tomates,  47 
Batter,  fritter,  391 

"  "       French,  476 

"       for  fruit  fritters,  476 
"      pudding,  baked,  442 
"      very  useful,  382 
Bass,  cold,  sauce  tartare,  47 

"      stewed  with  tomatoes,  47 
Bavarian  cream,  454 

"       chocolate,  455 

coffee,  455 
"       orange,  456 
"       strawberry,  455 
Bavaroise,  454 

"  au  cafe,  455 

"  "  chocolat,  455 

"  aux  f raises,  455 

"  a  l'orange,  456 

Bean  soup,  black,  31 

"       "      lima  and  tomato,  39 
"       "      red,  32 
"       "      white,  33 
Beans  and  bacon,  creole,  308 
"      Boston  baked,  307 
"      lima,  306 
"      red,  306 
"        "     salad  of,  330 
"       string,  305 
"      white,  salad  of,  332 
Bearnaise  sauce,  252 
Beaulieu  pudding,  438 
Becasses,  roties,  208 

"         sautees,  207 
Becassines,  roties  No.  I.,  208 
"t    No.  II.,  208 
"  sautees,  207 

Bechamel  sauce,  247 
Beef,  boiled,  97 
"     braised,  96 
"     corn,  113 
"        "      croquettes,  115 
"        "     hash,  114 
"     en  daube,  96 
"     filet  Bearnaise,  101 
"        "    braised,  99 
"        "  "         aux    champignons, 

100 
"       "         "         Madeira  sauce,  101 


Beef,  filet,  braised,  Soubise,  101 
"       "  "        aux  truffes,  101 

"       "      larded  and  roasted,  97 
"       "      aux  tomates  farcies,  101 
"     filets  mignons,  broiled,  98 
' '     general  directions,  90 
' '     Hamburg  steaks,  106 
"     juice  (for  invalids),  529 
' '     kidneys  stewed,  109 
"         "        a  la  terrapin,  no 
"     liver,  no 

"     (note),  534 
"     marine,  107 
"     a  la  mode,  94 
"     and  okra  soup,  17 
"     ox-tails  a  la  tartare,  108 
"     roast,  90 

"         "      filet  larded,  97 
"     roll,  108 
"     roulette,  108 
"     Scotch  roll,  106 
"     smoked,  with  cream,  109 
"  "         tongue,  to  boil,  in 

"     soup,  3 

' '     stew  with  okra,  109 

"     tea,  delicious,  529 

"    plain,  529 

Beef's  tongue  braised,  ill 

"    ■      "  "        with    puree    of 

potatoes,  112 
"  "  "        with   puree    of 

spinach,   113 
"  "  "        with  sauce  pi- 

quante,     113 
"  "  "        with  sauce  tar- 

tare, 112 
"  "  "         with        tomato 

sauce,  113 
"  "         jellied,  112 

Beefsteak,  braised,  brown  gravy,  103 
broiled,  102 
and  onions,  No.  I.,  105 

"         "        No.  II.,  105 
pot-pie,  104 
pudding,  104 
a.  la  Shrewsbury,  103 
Beets,  318 
Beet  salads,  330 

"  -tops,  304 
Beignets,  477 

"       de  celeri,  310 

"        "   cervelles  de  veau,  156 

"       of  chicken  a  la  tartare,  187 

"        de  concombres,  302 

"        "    f raises,  478 

"       d'huitres,  72 

"        "   panais,  319 

"        "   peches,  477 


INDEX. 


551 


Beignets,  de  pommes,  478 
"         "  risde  veau,  147 
"         "  salsifis,  316 
"       souffles,  474, 
Betteraves,  318 
Beurre  d'anchois,  250 
"     maitre  d'hotel,  252 
"     noir,  254 
Beverages,  etc.,  522 
Bewitched  veal,  145 
Biftek,  102 

"       braise  aux  huitres,  103 
"       aux  ognons,  105 
Birds,  to  truss  small  (note)  533 
Biscuit,  devilled  with  cheese,  342 
plain,  343 
"        ice-cream,  494 
"        Maryland,  379 
"        soda,  378 
tea,  378 
Bisque,  of  clams,  37 
"       de  homard,  36 
"       ice-cream,  494 
"       of  lobster,  36 
"        "  tomatoes,  30 
Black-bean  soup,  31 
Blackberry  cordial,  526 

"  pudding,  baked,  436 

"         boiled,  436 
"  sweetmeats,  509 

Blackbird-pie,  217 
Black  pickle,  516 
Black-walnut  candy,  514 
Blanche,  sauce,  250 
"        soupe,  34 
Blanc-mange,  arrowroot,  531 
chocolate,  471 
cocoa-nut  cream,  471 
corn-starch,  472 
"  fruit,  473 

Blending  for  soups  and  sauces,  245 
Bloaters,  Yarmouth,  65 
Blonde,  sauce,  260 
Bceuf,  braise,  96 
"       en  daube,  96 
"       filet  pique,  97 
"       marine,  107 
"       a.  la  mode,  94 
"       en  roulette,  108 
Boiled  beef,  97 
Bombay  toast,  343 
Bonny  clabber,  371 
Boston  brown  hash,  113 
Bouchees  a.  la  reine,  etc.,  229 
Bouilli,  97 

"      salad,  336 
Bouillon  fait  en  une  heure,  8 
gilt-edged,  3 


Braise,  plain,  93 
Bran  bread,  374 
Brandied  peaches,  506 
Brandy,  icing,  421 

"         sauce  (pudding),  452 
Bread,  373 

"       Boston-brown,  377 
"       bran,  374 
"       corn,  385 
"       gluten,  375 
"       graham,  375 
"       Italian,  376 
"       muffins,  381 
Note  I.,  373 
"       Note  II.,  373 
541 
"       omelet,  355 
"       puffs,  376 
rolls,  375 
"       rye,  374 
"       salt-rising,  376 
Bread-crumb  dressing  for  poultry,  240 
Bread-crumbs  fried,  237 
(note),  539 
Bread-pans  (note),  541 
Breakfast,  cakes,  373 
fish,  61 
"  Relishes  for,  347 

Broccoli,  292 
Broma,  525 
Brook  trout,  to  fry,  45 
Broth,  hasty,  8 

' '       made  in  1  hour,  8 
"       Scotch,  19 
Brown  Betty,  435 

"      bread,  Boston,  377 
"  "      ice-cream,  494 

"      gravy,  246 
"      roux,  243 
"      sauce,  246 
Brussels  sprouts,  293 
Buckwheat  cakes,  388 
Burns,  remedy  for,  546 
Butter,  369 

Buttermilk,  dumplings,  393 
"  griddle-cakes,  388 

"  muffins,  380 

CABBAGE,  to  boil  (note),  538 
' '  and  celery ,  stewed,  293 

Cabbage,  celery,  and  beet  salad,  330 
'         stewed,  293 
'         stewed  a  la  Flamande,  232 

stuffed,  231 
'         summer,  292 
'         winter,  292 
Cabillaud,  57 

"  filets  de,  57 


552 


Cabillaud,  grille,  59 
Cabinet  pudding,  437 

"  cold,  462 

Cafe,  Bavaroise  au,  455 
"     creme  au,  469 
"     au  lait,  522 
"     noir,  523 
"     parfait  au,  494 
Cailles,  en  compote,  214 
"       en  gelee,  213 
"       grillees,  212 
"       roties,  212 
"       sautees,  213 
Cake,  angel,  395 
"      archangel,  395 
"      Aurora  loaf,  396 
"      Charlotte  Russe,  415 
"      cocoa-nut  layer  No.  I.,  402 
"  "     No.  II.,  403 

"       loaf,  402 
"      coffee  layer,  408 
"      corn,  384 
"      dried-apple,  399 
"      economical  fruit,  399 
"      without  eggs,  397 
"      French,  398 
'      ginger,  401 
"      gingerbread,  400 

without  butter  or 
eggs,  401 
hazel-nut,  409 
"      hoe,  384 
"      hucklebery.  416 
"      Johnny,  384 
"      kaffee-kuchen,  417 
"      lady,  405 

"      layer  au  rhum,  or  kirsch,  409 
"         "     No.  I.,  405 
"     No.  II.,  408 
"      manquet,  399 
"      molasses,  401 
"      orange  layer,  408 
"      Phila.  White  Mountain,  403 
"      plain,  very  light,  404 
"      pound,  396 
"      Savoy,  398 
"      sponge  No.  I.,  397 
No.  II.,  397 
"  "        layer,  398 

"      Troy  loaf,  394 
"      Virginia  batter,  378 
"      walnut,  409 
"      Washington  pie,  416 

wedding,  394 
"      wine,  408 
Cake-baking  (note),  542 
Cakes,  394 

"      apple  cheese,  418 


Cakes,  buckwheat,  388 
cheese,  417 
cocoa-nut  drop,  412 

"        macaroons,  407 
cookies,  crisp  without  soda,  412 
cream  puffs,  405 

"      tea,  393 
crullers,  414 
dainty,  404 
doughnuts,  415 
drop,  413 
eclairs,  coffee,  406 
ginger  snaps,  412 
griddle,  etc.,  388 
Henriettas,  416 
jumbles,   41 1 

"  old-fashioned,  411 

kisses,  407 
macaroons,  407 
Madeleines,  414 
meringues,  407 
nobby  buns,  413 
pound,  small,  409 
promises,  410 
queen,  414 
velvet,  tea,  393 
Virginia  corn,  385 
vitement  fait,  411 
walnut  wafers,  412 
Calf's-head,  boiled,  153 
"    .        cheese,  154 
"  au  gratin,  153 

"  with    mushrooms  and   to- 

matoes, 154 
(note),  534 
"  soup,  13 

"  a  la  terrapin,  155 

Calf's   heart,  stuffed,  163 
"       liver,  braised,  158 
"      saute,  160 
Calicoes,  to  set  color  in  (note),  546 
Calves',  brains,  au  beurre  noir,  157 
"  "        fried,  156 

fritters,  156 
"  "       with  macaroni,  157 

"  "        a  la  poulette,  156 

"  "        to  prepare,  156 

"        kidneys,  163 
Canard,  braise,  204 
"        salmi  de,  203 
"  "       "    aux  olives,  206 

' '        saute  aux  petits  pois,  204 
Canards,  rotis,  203 

"  sauvages,  205 

Candies,  505 

Candy,  black-walnut,  514 
"        caramels,  514 
"       molasses,  513 


Candy,  pea-nut,  514 

INL 

>EX-                                    553 

Charlotte,  currant,  483 

"        pecan-nut,  514 

"         framboises,  484 

Caper  sauce,  250 

"         gooseberry,  484 

Capon,  roast,  200 

"         de  groseille,  483 

' '         with  truffles,  200 

"         Parisienne,  458 

Caramel,  carrots,  318 

pie-plant,  483 

"         custard,  469 

"         de  pommes,  483 

"         ice-cream,  495 

"         raspberry,  484 

"         sauce  (pudding),  451 

"         russe,  No.  I.,  457 

"         sweet  potatoes,  277 

"      No.  II.,  458 

Caramels,  514 

"             "      cake,  415 

Carrots,  316 

Chaud-froid  de  volaille,  193 

"        caramel,  318 

Cheese  cakes,  417 

"        fricasseed,  317 

'           "        apple,  418 

"        a  la  Lyonnaise,  317 

'        cottage,  371 

"        sauted,  317 

'        fondu,  341 

Catsup,  cucumber,  520 

'        omelet,  356 

"        tomato,  No.  I.,  520 

'        salad,  342 

"              "        No.  II.,  521 

'        straws,  341 

Cauliflower,  291 

"        toasted,  341 

"            au  gratin,  291 

Cherries  preserved  in  syrup,.  508 

(note),  537 

Cherry,  charlotte,  483 

"           pickle,  519 

"        pudding,  442 

"           salad,  329 

"       sweetmeats,  510 

"           sauce,  251 

"       toast,  484 

"            tomato  sauce,  292 

Chestnut  dressing,  No.  I.,  239 

Celeri,  beignets  de,  310 

"                "         No.  II.,  239 

"       a.  la  creme,  310 

"          puree,  308 

"       -rave,  310 

"          sauce,  259 

Celeriac,  310 

Chevreuil,  civet  de,  223 

Celery,  cabbage  and  beets  salad 

330 

"          cuissot  No.  I.,  220 

"        doucette    "       "         " 

33o 

"       No.  II.,  221 

"        fritters,  310 

"          ragout  de,  222 

"        au  jus,  309 

"         selle  de,  220 

"        mayonnaise,  331 

Chicken,  asado  (Spanish  fricassee),  189 

"        pickle,  516 

"         beignets  a,  la  Tartare,  187 

"         -root,  310 

"         boiled  with  white  sauce,  195 

"         salad,  330 

"         braised  with  carrots,  180 

"        sauce,  249 

"              "          "    Jerusalem    arti- 

"       stewed,  310 

chokes,  180 

Cervelles  de  veau,  beignets,  156 

"              "          "     macaroni,  179 

"          "       "       au  beurre  noir,  157 

"         broiled,  179 

"          "       "       f  rites,  156 

"         and  celery  salad,  335 

"          "       "       a  la  poulette, 
"          "       "       sautees  a  la 

156 

"         cock-a-leekie,  196 

Mila- 

"         consomme,  8 

naise,  157 

"         croquettes  No.  I.,  192 

Champignons,  a  la  Bordelaise,  286 

"                 "         plain,  No.  II.,  193 

coquilles  de,  287 

"         curry,  184 

grilles,  284 

"         dainty  fricassee,  183 

sauce,  254 

"         devilled,  194 

sautes  a.  la  creme 

285 

"         en  caisses,  190 

"       "  l'huile, 

284 

fillets  of,  185 

"        nature,  285 

Chicken,  fricassee,  182 

Chapon,  roti,  200 

"                "         sauce  tomate,  190 

"         truffe,  200 

"         gombo,  23 

Charlotte,  apple,  483 

"               "       file,  21 

"         de  cerises,  483 

"         jellied,  193 

"         cherry,  483 

jelly,  194 

554 


INDEX. 


Chicken,  with  lettuce,  334 
"         livers  saute,  181 
"         Maryland,    with    corn   dod- 
gers, 188 
"        en  matelote,  187 
"         and  oyster  pie,  227 
"         pate  jellied,  191 

pebre  (Spanish),  188 
"         to  preserve  (note)  535 
"         a  la  reine,  189 
"         with  rice  and  tomatoes,  190 
"         roast,  176 
"         salad,  335 

"      with  lettuce,  334 
"         saute  with  mushrooms,  186 
"  "        "    peas,  185 

"         smothered,  178 

souffle  No.  I.,  182 
"      No.  II.,  186 
"         Spanish,  181 
"         stew  with  dumplings,  184 
"  "        "    vegetables,  183 

"         and   sweetbread    croquettes, 

228 
"         with  terrapin  sauce,    195 
"         a  la  terrapin,  195 
"         with  tomatoes,  194 
"         white  and  tender,  to  make, 
536 
Chickory  Puree,  304 
"  salad,  327 

Chicoree,  puree  de,  304 
"  salade  de,  327 

"  sauvage,  saladede,  327 

Chocolate,  524 

"  Bavarian  cream,  455 

"  blanc-mange,  471 

"  custard,  470 

"  filling,  419 

"  ice-cream,  493 

"  icing,  419 

"  pudding,  444 

Chopping  machine  (note),  532 
Chops,  lobster,  80 

"        to  serve  French  (note),  544 
Chou,  292 
Chou-fleur,  291 

"  au  gratin,  291 

"  en  salade,  329 

"  sauce,  251 

"  sauce  tomate,  292 

Choux  de  Bruxelles,  293 
"      a  la  creme,  405 
"       farcis,  231 

"  "       a.  la  Flamande,  232 

Chowder,  clam,  No.  I.,  86 
"      No.  II.,  87 
Citron  ice,  502 


Citron,  preserved  (see  watermelon),  507 
Civet  de  chevreuil,  223 
Clam  chowder  No.  I.,  86 
No.  II.,  87 
"      fritters,  85 
"      stew,  85 
Clams,  bisque  of,  37 
"        with  cream,  85 
"        farcied,  85 
"        to  open,  37  and  85 

raw,  85 
"        roast,  86 
Claret,  mulled,  526 
Clearing  soups,  6 
Cochon  de  lait,  164 
Cock-a-leekie,  196 
Cocoa,  525 

"       iced,  as  a  summer  drink,  525 
Cocoa-nut,  cream  blanc-mange,  471 
drops,  412 
filling,  419 
layer  cake  No.  I.,  402 

"       "      No.  II.,  403 
loaf       ' '      402 
macaroons,  407 
pudding  No.  I.,  443 
"         No.  II.,  443 
Cod,  boiled,  57 
"     broiled,  59 

"     salt,  a  la  bonne  femme,  57 
"     steaks,  57 
Codfish  balls,  59 

"         croquettes,  58 
Coeur  de  veau  farci,  163 
Coffee,  breakfast,  drip,  522 
"  "  boiled,  523 

"  "  after-dinner,    drip, 

523 
"        Bavarian  cream,  455 
"       cream,  459 
"       eclairs,  406 
"        filling,  420 

"       ice-cream,   Philadelphia,  493 
"       icing,  421 
"       layer  cake,  408 
Cold  bass,  sauce  tartare,  47 
"     cabinet  pudding,  462 
"    custard,  470 
"    slaw,  331 
"        "      dressing,   325 
"        "      old-fashioned,  331 
Coloring  for  soups,  6,  245 
Concombres,  beignets  de,  302 
"  a  la  creme,  299 

farcis,  300 
frits,  300 
"  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  301 

"  "   poulette,  301 


INDEX. 


555 


Concombres,  ragout  de,  302 

Crecy 

soup  No.  II.,  26 

"            en  salade,  301 

Cream 

,  Bavarian,  454 

"           sauce,  262 

" 

"          chocolate,  455 

Consomme,  I, 

" 

"          coffee,  455 

'           amber,  7 

" 

"          orange,  456 

'           chicken,  8 

" 

"          strawberry,  455 

'           dore,  7 

" 

of  chicken  (see  veal),  141 

'           with  macaroni,  9 

" 

coffee,  459 

aux  ceufs  poches,  10 

" 

icing,  422 

'           aux  pates  d'ltalie,  11 

" 

lamb  (see  veal),  141 

'           with  poached  eggs,  10 

" 

muffins,  381 

'           a  la  royale,  8 

" 

mutton  (see  veal),  141 

'           au  vermicelle,  11 

" 

orange,  459 

de  volaille,  8 

" 

puffs,  405 

Cookery  for  Invalids,  529 

" 

sauce,  247 

Cookies,  crisp,  without  soda,  412 

" 

short-cake,  379 

Coquettes,  475 

" 

snow,  456 

Coquilles,  de  champignons,  287 

" 

Spanish,  460 

"         d'huitres,  75 

" 

tea-cakes,  393 

"         de  salsifis,  316 

" 

veal,  141 

Cordial,  blackberry,  526 

" 

velvet,  460 

"        kiimmel,  528 

" 

whipped,  457 

Corn,  to  boil,  296 

Creme 

468 

"      bread,  385 

" 

d'asperges,  25 

"      cake,  384 

" 

bachique,  469 

"      cake,  Virginia,  385 

" 

au  cafe,  469 

"      crust,  Alabama,  385 

" 

"  caramel,  469 

"      drops,  385 

" 

"  chocolat,  etc.,  470 

"          "       plain,  386 

" 

choux  a  la,  405 

"      fritters,  297 

" 

fouettee,  457 

"      oysters,  296 

" 

frite,  476 

"      pudding,  295,  296 

" 

glacee  a  l'ananas,  495,  497 

"      rolls,  delicate,  386 

" 

"      au  caramel,  495 

"      salad,  327 

" 

"       "  chocolat,  493 

"      to  serve  (note),  544 

" 

"      a  la  f raise,  496 

Corn-beef,  113 

" 

"        "     vanille,  491,  492 

"          croquettes,  115 

" 

Italienne,  468 

"          hash,  114 

" 

de  riz,  28 

Cornichous,  sauce,  249 

" 

veloutee,  460 

Corn-meal  griddle  cakes,  389 

Creole  ratatouille,  142 

Corn-starch  blanc-mange,  472 

Crepes,  482 

Cottage,  cheese,  371 

Crevettes,  salade  de,  339 

"        pudding,  441 

Croquettes,  chicken,  No.  I.,  192 

Coulis  de  poisson,  38     . 

" 

"       plain,     No.     II. 

Court  bouillon,  to  boil  fish  in,  43 

193 

"            "         New  Orleans,  66 

" 

' '       and     sweetbread 

"             "         Shrewsbury,  65 

228 

Crab,  gumbo  No.  I.,  23 

" 

codfish,  58 

"          "      No.  II.,  39 

" 

corn-beef,  115 

"     salad,  83 

" 

lamb,  131 

Crabs,  devilled,  82 

" 

mutton,  124 

"       farcied,  82 

" 

potato,  270 

hard-shell,  boiled,  82 

" 

salmon,  56 

soft-shell,  fried,  82 

" 

de  saumon,  56 

Cranberry  pie,  431 

" 

to  serve,  (note),  544 

"         sauce,  263 

" 

shad-roe,  51 

tart,  433 

" 

sweetbread,  151 

Crecy 

soup  No.  I.,  26 

" 

veal,  139 

556 


INDEX. 


Croquettes,  veal  and  ham,  139 

"  de  volaille  No.  I.,  192 

"      No.  II.,  193 
Westphalia,  168 
Croiite,  aux  abricots,  485 
"         "     cerises,  484 
"         "    framboises,  485 
"      -au-pot,  12 
Croutons,  No.  I.,  236 
"         No.  II.,  236 
"         as  a  garnish  (note),  543 
"         fancy,  237 
"         pastry,  241 

"      as  a  garnish  (note), 
544 
Crullers,  414 
Crumpets,  382 
Cucumber,  catsup,  520 
"  fritters,  302 

"         Sauce,  262 
Cucumbers,  dressed,  301 
fried,  300 
"  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  301 

"  and  onion  salad,  328 

"  pickled,  519 

"  a  la  poulette,  301 

"  ragout    of,    with   onions, 

302 
"  salad,  301 

"  stewed,  299 

"  stuffed,  300 

Currant  Charlotte,  483 
jelly,  511 
pie,  431 
"         sherbet,  503 
"         sweetmeats,  510 
"         wine,  527 
Currants,  to  clean  dried,  540 
Curried  eggs,  362 
"       lamb,  128 
"       lobster,  81 
"       mutton,  124 
"       oysters,  76 
Curry,  chicken,  184 

"      mutton,  brown,  122 
Custard,  baked  coffee,  469 
"       boiled,  468 
"       cold,  470 
"       caramel,  469 
"       chocolate  and   other  baked, 

470 
"       filling,  421 
"       Italian,  468 

pie,  429 
"       sauce  (pudding),  451 
Custards,  470 
Cutlets,  mutton,  121 

"      shad,  a  l'oseille,  49 


DAINTY  cakes,  404 
"         chicken  fricassee,  183 
Dandelions,  304 
Dandelion  salad,  327 
Date  pudding,  449 
Demidoff  salad,  333 
Desserts,  454 
Devil  sauce,  249 
Devilled  biscuits,   342 

"         plain,  343 
"         chicken,  194 

"         en  caisses,  190 
"        crabs,  82 
"         halibut,  60 
lobster,  81 
"        scallops,  84 
Diable,  sauce,  249 
Dinde,  aux  champignons,  200 
"        en  daube,  198 
"        rotie,  196 
"        sauce  blanche,  199 
"        truffee,  199 
Dindonneau,  197 

Dinner,  Order  of  Service  of  a,  345 
Dipping  for  frying  (note),  539 
Directions,  for  fish,  42 

"  freezing  ice-cream,  490 
"   frying,  40 

"   keeping  meats  warm,  89 
"   re-heating  meats,  89 
"  sauces,  243 
"   soups,  I 
Doucette,  salad,  327 

"         celery  and  beets  salad,  330 
Doughnuts,  415 

Dressing,  bread-crumb,  for  poultry,  240 
"  "  cold  slaw,  325 

"         chestnut  No.  I.,  239 
No.  II.,  239 
"         French,  salad,  326 
"         mustard,  325 
"  mushroom,  239 

' '  oyster,  for  boiled  poultry,  240 

"         potato,  239 
"         sage,  for  geese,  239 

"       "  poultry,  geese, etc., 
240 
' '        sausage,  for  turkey,  etc. ,  239, 

241 
"         sweet-herb,  for  veal,  240 
"  "     potato,  for  turkey,  240 

"         Sydney  Smith's  salad,  324 
Drippings,  to  clarify  (note),  540 
Drop  cakes,  413 
Drops,  cocoa-nut,  412 
corn,  385 
"  "       plain,  386 

Duck,  saute  witli  green  peas,  204 


INDEX. 


557 


Duck,  tame,  203 

"       braised,  204 
"       salmi  of,  203 
wild,  205 
"       salmi  with  olives,  207 
"      jelly  sauce,  206 
Dumplings,  392 

"  apple,  boiled,  449 

"  buttermilk,  393 

"  suet,  392 

ECLAIRS  au  cafe,  406 
Economical,  fruit  cake,  399 
Economical  maigre  soup,  34 

"  soup,  16 

Eels,  broiled,  55 

"     fried,  55 

"     en  matelote,  54 

"     a.  la  poulette,  55 

"     stewed,  54 
Egg  and  wine,  525 

"  -balls,  235 

"  -beaters  (note),  532 

"  -icing,  422 

"  -fondu,  364 

"  -nogg,  525 

"  -plant,  baked  with  bread-crumbs, 
297 
fried,  298 
stuffed,  298 
Eggs,(35o 

"     a.  l'Andalouse,  367 

"     "  l'Aurore,  361 

' '     and  bacon,  364 

"     baked,  359 

"     au  beurre  noir,  360 

"     to  boil,  358 

"     boiled,  hard,  359 

' '     cake  without,  399 

"     en  caisses,  365 

"     with  celery,  368 

"     curried,  362 

"     fricasseed,  366 

"     fried,  361 

"     ham  and,  361 

"     hard-boiled,  359 

"       "         "       salad,  337 

"       "     crumbed  (note),  539 

' '     en  matelote,  363 

' '     with  mushrooms,  364 

"     in  a  nest,  366 

"     omelet,  bread,  355 

"         "        cheese,  356 

"  "         chicken  livers,  367 

"         "        Creole,  353 

"         "        fine  herbs,  355 

"  "        ham,  352 

"         "        kidney,  357 


i  omelet,  mushroom,  357 
"         onion,   356 
"        oyster,  353 
"        parsley,  354 
"        plain,  351 

potato,  355 
"        rum,  357 
"        sardine,  354 
"        Spanish,  356 
"        sweetmeats,  358 
"         tomato,  353 
"        with  tomato  sauce,  352 

truffle,  357 
"         whitebait,  354 
to  poach  (note),  537 
poached,  360 

1 '  with  anchovy  toast,  360 

aux  pointes  d'asperges,  364 
to  preserve  (note\  540 
scrambled,  362 
smoked  beef  and,  358 
stirred,  362 

"        a.  l'lndienne,  365 
' '        with  mushrooms,  364 
' '        with  tomatoes,  363 
stuffed,  mayonnaise  sauce,  366 
sur  le  plat,  350 
"    "     "      with  asparagus  tips, 

350 
"    "     "         "      ham,  350 
"    "     "         "      tomato  sauce, 

351 
with  tomato  sauce,  368 
a.  la  tripe,  351 
truffled  au  jus,  363 
a.  la  Valencienne,  367 
Eglefin,  grille,  59 

en  matelote,  60 
Endives,  puree,  304 

salad  of,  326 
English,  mustard,  to  mix,  241 
pigeon  pie,  217, 
plum-pudding,  447 
Eperlans,  frits,  52 
grilles,  52 

sauce  mayonnaise,  53 
Epigram  of  lamb,  129 
Epinards,  puree  a  ia  creme,  303 

"      au  jus,  302 
Escarole  salad,  327 
Espagnole  sauce,  246 

FANCY  jelly,  466 
Farina,  fruit,  479 
Farina  soup,  12 
Feather  cakes,  391 

pillows,  to  remove  odor  from, 
546 


553 


INDEX. 


Fetticus  salad,  327 
Fig  pudding,  449 
Filet,  Bearnaise,  101 
' '     of  beef  braised,  99 
' '     de  bceuf  braise,  99 
"      "     pique,  97 
"     braise  aux  champignons,  100 
"  "     sauce  madere,  101 

"  "     a  la  Soubise,  10 

"  "     aux  tomates  farcies,  101 

"  "        "  truffes,  101 

Filets  d'alose  a  l'oseille,  49 
"       de  cabillaud,  57 
"       mignons  grilles,  98 
"      de  poisson,  53 
"       "  sole  a  la  maitre  d'hotel,  63 
"     "      "    Orly,  62 
Fillet  of  veal  braised,  134 

"      "     "    Soubise  sauce,  134 

"     "    stuffed  and  roasted,  133 
Fillets  of  chicken,  185 

"      "  sole  a  la  Orly,  62 
Filling,  almond-paste,  420 
"        apricot,  419 
"        chocolate,  419 
"        cocoa-nut,  419 
"        coffee,  420 
"        custard,  421 
"        ice-cream,  421 
"        lemon  custard,  420 
"        orange,  420 
"        peach,  419 
Fillings  for  cakes,  419 
Finnan  haddie,  64 
Fish,  42 
"     bacalao  a  la  Vizcaina,  58 
"     to  boil,  No.  I.,  42 
"      "     "     No.  II.,  42 
"     boiled  au  court  bouillon,  43 
"     to  boil  trout  of  1  pound,  44 
"     to  broil,  44 
"     bass,  cold,  sauce  Tartare,  47 

"    stewed  with  tomatoes,  47 
"     breakfast,  61 
"     cod,  boiled,  57 
"       "    salt,  a  la  bonne  femme,  57 
"       "    steaks,  57 
"       "     balls,  59 
"       "    broiled,  59 
"       "     croquettes,  58 
"     cutlets,  53 
"     a  la  Delmonico,  60 
"     directions,  42 
"     eels,  broiled,  55 

"      fried,  55 
"        "      en  matelote,  54 
"       "     a  la  poulette,  55 
"       "     stewed,  54 


Fish,  Finnan  haddie,  64 

frogs,  fricassee,  brown,  67 
"         white,  67 
fried,  67 
"         "      in  batter,  66 
"      a  la  poulette,  67 
to  fry,  44 

' '       brook  trout  and  small  fish, 
45 
haddock,  broiled,  59 
"         stewed,  60 
halibut,  baked  a  la  Creole,  60 
"        devilled,  60 
"        steak  a  la  Flamande,  59 
herring  balls,  64 
"        kippered,  65 
"        Potomac,  65 
kippered  herring,  65 
mock  turbot  a  la  creme,  61 
New  Orleans  court  bouillon,  66 
Potomac  herring,  65 
pudding  (Scandinavian),  53 
sardine  omelet,  370 
salad,  47 

salmon,  boiled,  56 
"         croquettes,  56 
steaks,  56 
salt  mackerel,  broiled,  64 

"    to  freshen,  64 
shad,  baked  No.  I.,  49 
"      No.  II.,  50 
"      boiled,  49 

"         "  cold,   sauce    Tar- 

tare, 50 
"       cutlets  a  l'oseille,  49 
"     planked,  50 
"     pickled,  51 
"     soused,  51 
shad-roe  croquettes,  51 
Shrewsbury  court  bouillon,  65 
smelts,  baked,  52 
"        broiled,  52 

fried,  52 
"        mayonnaise,  53 
"        stewed,  53 
sole  a.  l'Aurore,  63 
"    fillets  a  la  Orly,  62 
"        "     "  "  maitre  d'hotel,  63 
"    fried,  62 
soup,  39 
to  steam,  44 
stewed  en  matelote,  45 
stock,  38 

stuffed  and  baked,  46 
whitebait,  48 

"         omelet,  370 
Yarmouth  bloaters,  65 
Flaky  pie-crust,  424 


INDEX. 


559 


Flannel  cakes,  quick,  390 
"  "       raised,  390 

Flour-ball  for  infants'  food,  530 
Foie  de  veau,  braise,  158 
"     "        "      grille,  161 
"     "        "     roti,  159 
"     "        "      saute,  160 
"     "        "  "      aux     cornichons, 

160 
Foies  de  volailles  sautes,  181 
Fondu,  egg,  341 

"       au  fromage,  364 
Force-meat  balls  No.  I.,  235 
"     No.  II.,  235 
"  ham,  238 

"  oyster,  235 

Force-meats,  garnishes,  etc.,  233 
Four-and-twenty-blackbird  pie,  217 
Fourchette,  161 
Fowl,  to  truss  a,  176 
Fraise,  glace  a  la,  501 
Fraises,  Bavaroise  aux,  455 
"       glacees,  501 
"  "        a.  la  creme,  496 

Framboise,  glace  a  la,  501 
Framboises,  charlotte  de,  484 

"  croute  aux,  485 

Freezer,  ice-cream  (note),  532 
Freezing,  directions  for  ice-creams,  490 
French,  batter,  476 
"        cake,  398 
"        dressing,  326 
"        noodle  soup,  10 
Freshen  salt  fish,  to,  64 
Friar's  omelet,  485 
Fricandeau  of  veal,  134 
Fricassee,  brown,  of  frogs,  67 
"         chicken,  183 

"         tomato  sauce,  190 
"         dainty  chicken,  182 
"         white,  of  frogs,  67 
Fricasseed  eggs,  366 
Fried  bread-crumbs,  237 

"      parsley,  241 
Fritter  batter,  391 

"  "       French,  476 

"  "       for  fruit,  476 

Fritters,  apple,  478 

"        calf's  brains,  156 

"        celery,  310 

"        chicken,  a  la  Tartare,  187 

clam,  85 
"        corn,  297 
"        cucumber,  302 
"        parsnips,  319 
"        peach,  477 
plain,  477 
"        salsify,  316 


Fritters,  strawberry,  478 
"        sweetbread,  147 
Frogs,  fricassee,  brown,  67 
"         white,  67 
"       fried,  67 
"  "      in  batter,  66 

"       a  la  poulette,  67 
Fromage,  de  cochon,  169 

"  "  tete  de  veau,  154 

Frozen  apple-pudding,  497 
"        fruit  "  499 

"        peaches,  501 

"        and  cream,  495 
"        pine-apple  cream,  495 
"        punch,  503 
"        strawberries,  501 
"  "  and  cream,  496 

Fruit,  blanc-mange,  473 
"       farina,  479 

fritters,  batter  for,  476 
"       pies  (note),  543 
"       -pudding,  frozen,  499 
' '      stains,  to  remove  (note),  544 
Fruits,  macedoine  of,  466 
Fry  fish,  to,  44 
Frying,  basket  (note),  532 

"        general  directions  for,  40 
Furniture  polish  (note),  547 

GALANTINE  de  veau,  140 
Galette,  427 
Game,  205 

"      to  clean,  175 
"      cold  (note),  535 
"      pate,  jellied,  223 
Garnishes,  233 

"         for  clear  soup,  236 
Gateau  de  Savoie,  398 
Gelatine  pudding,  461 
Gelbe  Speise,  462 
Gelee,  au  cafe,  459 
"       "  citron,  464 
"       a.  la  creme  d'orange,  459 
"       fantaisie,  466 
' '       a  l'orange,  463 
"       de  tapioca,  473 
"       au  vin  de  madere,  465 
Gems,  Graham,  388 
German  noodle  soup,  9 
Gherkins,  pickled,  519 
Giblet  soup,  21 
Gilt-edged  bouillon,  3 
Ginger-beer,  526 
"      -bread,  400 
"  "       without  eggs  or  butter, 

401 
"      -cake,  401 
"       -snaps,  412 


560                                                    INDEX. 

Ginger  souffle,  480 

Gumbo,  crab  No.  I.,  23 

Glace,  242 

"    No.  II.,  39 

"      a  l'ananas,  502 

"        okra,  22 

"      au  citron,  500 

"        oyster,  23 

a  la  f raise,  501,  503 

"        "   framboise,  501 

T  TADDOCK,  broiled,  59 
J.  \_          "            stewed,  60 

"    groseille,  503 

"      a  l'orange,  502 

Halibut,  baked  a  la  creole,  60 

Glaze,  242 

"         devilled,  60 

Gloves,  wash  for  cleaning  (note),  547 

steak  a  la  Flamande, 

59 

Gluten  bread,  375 

Ham  balls,  169 

Golden  buck,  340 

"     to  boil,  166 

"      sauce  (pudding),  450 

"     bone  (note),  535 

Gombo  aux  crabes  No.  I.,  23 

"     broiled,  167 

"         "      No.  II.,  39 

"     and  eggs,  361 

fevi,  22 

"     force-meat,  238 

file,  21 

"     fried,  167 

aux  huitres,  23 

"     lunch,  167 

Gombos,  314 

"     puffs,  168 

"         sautes,  314 

"     souffle,  168 

salade  de,  329 

"     toast  for  breakfast,  167 

Good  plain  paste,  425 

Hamburg  steaks,  106 

Goose,  roast,  201 

Hard-egg  sauce,  250 

Gooseberry  charlotte,  484 

"     sauce  (pudding),  452 

Graham,  bread,  375 

"          "     plain  (pudding),  452 

"         fingers  and  thumbs,  379 

Hare,  barbecued,  218 

gems,  388 

"      au  chasseur,  219 

"         wafers,  380 

"      potted,  220 

Grape,  jelly,  511 

Haricots  verts,  305 

"        sweetmeats,  510 

"            "      en  salade,  328 

Gravy,  brown,  246 

Hash,  baked  in  a  mould,  113 

Green  pea  soup,  27 

'       Boston  brown,  113 

"       tomato  pickles,  515 

'      chicken  (see  corn-beef), 

114 

"      soy,  515 

'      corn-beef,  114 

"            "      sweet  pickles,  519 

'       lamb       (see  corn-beef), 

114 

Grenouilles,  frites,  67 

'       mutton       "           " 

114 

"            a  la  poulette,  67 

'       pickle,  518 

Griddle,  to  grease  (note),  542 

'       turkey     (see  corn-beef), 

114 

to  heat          "       541 

"      veal           "           " 

114 

"       cakes,  388 

Hasty  broth,  8 

"           "       buckwheat,  388 

Hazel-nut  cake,  409 

"       buttermilk,  388 

Head-cheese,  169 

"           "       corn-meal,  389 

Heart,  calf's,  stuffed,  163 

"           "       feather,  391 

Henriettas,  416 

"           "       hominy,  390 

Herb,  sweet,  dressing  for  veal, 

240 

"           "       oat-meal,  389 

Herring  balls,  64 

"           "       quick  flannel,  390 

"        kippered,  65 

"           "       raised      "        390 

"        Potomac,  65 

"           "       rice,  389 

Hoe-cake,  384 

"           "       stale-bread,  39/ 

Hollandaise  sauce,  255 

Groseille,  glace  a  la,  503 

Homard,  a  l'Americaine,  79 

Groseilles,  charlotte  de,  483 

"        cotelettes  de,  80 

Grouse,  broiled,  207 

a  la  diable,  81 

"       roast,  207 

"        farci,  81 

Guinea-fowl,  braised,  201 

"        au  kari,  81 

"          broiled,  201 

"        a  la  Newberg,  80 

"          roast,  200 

"        sauce,  250 

Gumbo,  chicken,  23 

He 

miny  griddle-cakes,  390 

INDEX. 


56l 


Horse-radish  sauce,  260 
Huckleberry,  cake,  416 

pudding,  437 
"  roly-poly,  441 

Huitres,  70 

"       beignets,  d',  72 

"        en  brochette,  77 

"         "  coquilles,  75 
a.  la  diable,  71 

"        frites,  70 

"        en  hachis,  77 

"        au  kari,  76 

"         "  macaroni,  78 

"         "  parmesan,  73 

"        a  la  poulette,  72 

"        roties,  71 

"        sauce  aux,  251 

"        soupe    "     38 

ICE,  citron,  502 
"     currant  sherbet,  503 
Ice,  frozen  peaches,  501 
"         "      punch,  503 
"         "      strawberries,  501 
"    lemon-water,  500 
"    orange  sherbet,  502 
"    pine-apple  sherbet,  502 
' '    to  preserve  (note),  545 
■"    raspberry,  501 
"     Roman  punch,  503 
"    strawberry,  501 
"  "  sherbet,  503 

Ice-box  (note)  545 
Ice-cream,  Alaska,  roasted,  499 
biscuit,  494 
bisque,  494 
brown-bread,  494 
cafe,  parfait  au,  494 
caramel,  495 
chocolate,  493 
coffee  (Phila.),  493 
filling,  421 
freezer  (note),  532 
frozen  apple  pudding,  497 
"       fruit  "         499 

"      peaches  and  cream, 

495 
' '      pine-apple      cream, 

495 
' '      strawberries       and 
cream,  496 
general    directions    for 

freezing,  490 
iced  pudding,  500 
mousse  a  l'ananas,  496 
Nesselrode  pudding  498 
pine-apple,  497 
plum-pudding  glace,  498 


Ice-cream,  strawberry,  496 
vanilla,  492 
vanilla,  with  eggs,  491 
"  "       Phila.,  491 

water-ices,  etc.,  490 
Icing,  brandy,  421 
"      coffee,  421 
"       chocolate,  419 
"      cream,  422 
"      egg,  422 
"      kirsch,  421 
"      lemon,  421 
"       orange,  422 
"       rum,  421 
"       wine,  422 
Icings  for  cakes,  419 
Indian-meal  gruel,  531 
"       pickle  517 
pudding,  444 

"         old-fashioned,  445 
"       sandwiches,  343 
Irish  stew,  125 

Iron-rust  stains,  to  remove  (note),  546 
Italian,  bread,  376 
"       custard,  468 
"       pastes,  soup,  with,  11 

J  AMBON,  166 
croquettes    a    la    West- 
phalie,  168 
Jambon,  frit,  167 
"         grille,  167 
"         souffle  au,  168 
Jamboree,  513 
Jellied  chicken,  193 
"      game  pate,  223 
"      meat  loaf,  230 
"      quail  (see  compote),  213 
"      tongue,  in 
"      veal,  145 
Jellies,  etc.,  454 
Jelly,  chicken,  194 
"     currant,  511 
"     fancy,  466 
"     grape,  51 1 
"     lemon,  464 
"     orange,  463 
"  "       in  baskets,  463 

' '     sauce  for  venison,  263 
"     tapioca,  473 
"     wine,  465 
Jerusalem  artichokes,  baked,  311 
"  braised,  311 

"  chips,  311 

"  a.  la  creme,  310 

"  au  gratin,  311 

"  puree  of,  311 

"  salad    "    329 


562 


INDEX. 


Jim  Crow,  438 
Johnny-cake,  384 
Jolly  boys,  478 
Julienne  soup,  12 

"       potatoes,  276 
Jumbles,  411 

"         old-fashioned,  411 
Junket,  470 
Jus,  246 

KAFFEE-KUCHEN,  417 
Kale,  304 
Keeping  meats  warm,  89 
Kidney  omelet,  357 
Kidneys,  breaded,  127 

"         en  brochette,  127 

"         calves'  163 

"         lamb,  130 

"         stewed,  109 

"         a  la  terrapin,  no 
Kippered  herring,  65 
Kirsch  icing,  421 
Kisselle,  473 
Kisses,  407 

Knuckle  of  veal  browned,  136 
Kummel  cordial,  528 
Kumyss,  530 

LADY  cake,  405 
Laitues,  au  jus,  305 
Laitues,  puree  de,  305 

"        salade,  326 
Lamb,  breast,  braised,  128 
"      chops,  broiled,  128 
"      croquettes,  131 
"      curried,  128 
Lamb,  cutlets,  121 

"      devilled  en  caisses,  130 
"      epigram,  sauce  Tartare,  129 
fries,  131 

kidneys,  for  breakfast,  130 
"         broiled,  130 
"      roast,  mint  sauce,  128 
Lambs'  tongues,  stewed,  129 

"  a  la  Tartare,  130 

"  tomato  sauce,  130 

Langue  de  bceuf  braisee,  III 

puree     d'epi- 

nards,  113 
puree   pommes 
de  terre,  112 
sauce  piquante, 

113 
sauce    Tartare, 

112 
sauce  tomate, 
113 
fumee,  III 


Langue  de  bceuf  en  gelee,  112 
Lapin  au  chasseur,  219 
"      en  compote,  220 
"      roti,  218 
Laplanders,  387 
Larding  pork  (note),  534 
Larks,  208 

Layer-cake,  cocoa-nut  No.  L,  402 
"  "        No.  II.,  403 

"  coffee,  408 

"  au  kirsch,  409 

No.  I.,  405 
No.  II.,  408 
"  orange,  408 

"  au  rhum,  409 

"  sponge,  398 

Legumes,  puree  de,  36 
Lemon-brandy,  527 

"        custard,  filling,  420 

"       pie,  old-fashioned,  428 
"        icing,  421 
jelly,  464 
"        pie,  432 

"         pudding,  baked  No.  I.,  445 
"      No.  II.,  446 
"         boiled,  446 
"        sauce  (pudding),  452 
"        water  ice,  500 
Lentil,  salad,  334 

"      soup,  32 
Lentils,  puree  of,  307 

"        saute,  308 
Lettuce,  au  jus,  305 
"         puree  of,  305 
"         salad,  326 
"         soup, 17 
Liaison,  245 
Lievre,  au  chasseur,  219 
"       en  compote,  220 
"       roti,  218 
Lima  beans,  306 

"  "        and  tomato  soup,  39 

Liver  and  bacon,  158 
"      beef's,  no 

braised,  158 
"  broiled,  161 
"  roasted,  159 
"      saute,  160 

"         "     with  pickle  sauce,  160 
"     smothered  in  onions,  160 
Loaf,  meat,  144 
Lobster  bisque,  36 
to  boil,  78 
"        broiled  a  l'Americaine,  79 
"        chops,  80 
"         curry,  81 

devilled,  81 
"        to  dress,  cold,  79 


INDEX. 


563 


Lobster,  farcied,  81 

"         mayonnaise,  337 

"        a  la  Newberg,  80 

"        sauce,  250 

"        to  select  (note),  534 
Lyonnaise  potatoes,  268 

MACARONI,  boiled,  225 
"  with  cheese,  225 

Macaroni,  consomme  with,  9 
"         au  gratin,  226 
"         a  l'ltalienne,  225 
"  "   Milanaise,  224 

"         timbale  of,  224 
"         and  tomato  soup,  24 
"         soup,  37 

"         and  various  entrees,  224 
Macaroons,  407 

"  cocoa-nut,  407 

Macedoine  of  fruits,  466 
Mackerel,  salt,  broiled,  64 
Madeira  sauce,  254 
Madeleines,  414 
Maigre  soup,  economical,  34 
•    "  "      savory,  38 

"  "      summer,  34 

"  "      white,  34 

"        soupe,  35 
Maitre  d'hotel  butter,  252 
"  "       sauce,  252 

Manquet,  399 
Marmalade,  peach,  512 

"  pine-apple,  512 

Marrons,  puree  de,  380 
"         sauce  aux,  259 
Maryland,  biscuit,  379 

' '  chicken  with  corn  dodgers, 

188 
"  wine  sauce  (pudding),  453 

Matelote,  eggs  en,  363 
"         de  poisson,  45 
"        sauce,  262 
' '         stewed  fish  en,  45 
Mayonnaise,  celery,  331 

"  de  homard,  337 

"  lobster,  337 

"  de  ris  de  veau,  336 

"  salmon  with,  338 

"  of  salmon,  338 

"  de  saumon,  338 

"  sauce,  261,  324 

' '  of  sweetbreads,  336 

"  tomato,  332 

"  de  veau,  335 

"  volaille,  334 
Meat,  cold  (note),  535 
"      loaf,  144 
"         "     jellied,  230 


Meat,  sausages  for  breakfast,  232 
scalloped  with  tomatoes,  231 
"      tough,  to  make  tender  (note),  536 
Meats,  to  be  served  cold  (note),  536 
"        "  keep  warm,  89 
"        "  re-heat,  89 
"         "  thaw  frozen  (note),  535 
"        Time-table  for  Cooking,  88 
Meringues,  407 
Mildew,  to  remove  (note),  545 
Milk  soup,  28 
Mince  pie  No.  I.,  426 

"        "    No.  II.,  427 
Mint  sauce,  260 
Minute  pudding,  442 
Mock  terrapin,    159 

' '      turbot  a  la  creme,  61 
"      turtle  soup  No.  I.,  14 
"     No.  II.,  15 
Molasses  cake,  401, 
"        candy,  513 
Morue  a.  la  bonne  femme,  57 
Mousse,  a  l'ananas,  496 
"        aux  peches,  486 
"  "    pommes,  486 

Mouton,  cotelettesde,  grilles,  120 

"         "    a  la  jardiniere, 
123 
"  "         "  panees,  121 

"  "  enpapillotes,l22 

"        croquettes  de,  124 
"         filet  de,  roti,  119 
"        gigot>  bouilli  aux  capres,  iftQ 
"  "     braise  aux  navets,  119 

"  "      roti,  117 

"        haricot  de,  125 
"        au  kari,  124 
"  "  macaroni,  126 

"        poitrine  de,  au  gratin,  120 
"        rognonsde,enbrochette,i27 
"  "         "  panes,  127 

"        selle  de,  rotie,  118 
Muffins,  bread,  381 

"       buttermilk,  380 
"       cream,  381 
"       Kalamazoo,  381 
"       plain,  380 

' '       very  useful  batter  for,  382 
Mulled  claret,  525 
Mulligatawny  soup,  20 
Mushroom  dressing,  239 
"  omelet,  357 

"  sauce,  254 

Mushrooms,  baked,  286 

"  a  la  bordelaise,  286 

"  broiled,  284 

"  canned,  stewed,  285 

"  fried,  284 


564 


Mushrooms,  general  remarks,  283 
"  scalloped,  287 

"  stewed,  with  cream,  285 

"         plain,  285 
(note),  543 
Mustard  dressing,   325 

"  English,  to  mix,  241 

Mutton,  116 

breast  au  gratin,  120 
browned  curry,  122 
chops,  braised,  123 
"      breaded,  121 
"      broiled,  120 
"      en  papillotes,  122 
croquettes,  124 
curried,  124 
curry,  browned,  122 
cutlets,  121 
general  remarks,  116 
Irish  stew,  125 
kidneys,  breaded,  127 

"         en  brochette,  127 
leg,  boiled,  119 
"     braised,  119 
"    roast,  117 
loin,     "      119 

and  macaroni,  browned,  126 
roll,  126 

saddle,  roast,  118 
shepherd's  pie,  126 
turcsicus,  125 

NASTURTIUMS,  pickled,  517 
Navets  a  la  creme,  321 
Navets  glaces,  321 

"      au  gratin,  322 

"       "  ju%  321 

"      puree,  321 
Neige,  456 

"      a  l'ananas,  467 
Nesselrode  pudding,  498 
New  Orleans  court-bouillon,  66 

potatoes,  270 
Nobby  buns,  413 
Noodle  soup,  French,  10 

"  "      German,  9 

"  "      Swedish,  10 

Noodles,  French,  237 

"         German,  238 

"         Swedish,  238 

"         tomato  soup  with,  24 
Normandy  soup,  18 
Note,  546 
Notes,  Stray,  532 
Nouilles,  237 

OAT-CAKES,  380 
Oat-meal  griddle-cakes,  389 
Gsufs  aux  anchois,  360 


OEufs   a.  l'Andalouse,  367 
"       "    Aurore,  361 
' '       au  beurre  noir,  360 
"       brouilles,  362 

"         a  lTndienne,  365 
"         sauce  tomate,  351 
"       en  caisses,  365 
"       au  celeri,  368 
"       aux  champignons,  364 
"       a  la  coque,  358 
"       durs  en  salade,  337 
"       farcis,  359 

"  "      sauce  mayonnaise,  366 

"       fondu,  364 

frits,  361 
"  "      au  jambon,  361 

"       au  kari,  362 
"       en  matelote,  363 
"       poches,  360 
"       aux  pointes  d'asperges,  364 
"       a  la  poulette,  366 
"       sauce  tomate,  368 
"       sur  le  plat,  350 
"  "       "     au  jambon,  350 

"  "       "     pointes  d'asperges, 

35o 
"       aux  tomates,  363 
"       a  la  tripe,  351 
"       truffes  au  jus,  363 
"       a  la  Valencienne,  367 
Ognons,  a  la  creme,  312 

"        glaces,  313 
Oie  rotie,  201 
Okra,  boiled,  plain,  314 
"      gumbo,  22 
"      salad,  329 
"      soup,  beef  and,  17 
"  "     winter,  35 

"      stewed,  314 
"      and  tomatoes,  stewed,  314 
Omelet,  cheese,  356 
"       creole,  353 
"        friar's,  485 
"        kidney,  357 
"        mushroom,  357 
"        onion,  356 
"        oyster,  353 

rum,  357 
"        Spanish,  356 
11        sweetmeats,  358 
"        truffle,  357 
Omelette,  351 

"        aux  champignons,  357 

"  "    confitures,  358 

"  "    a  l'Espagnole,  356 

"  "    fines  herbes,  355 

"  "    auxfoiesdevolailles,  367 

"         au  fromage,  356 


565 


Omelette,  aux  huitres,  353 
"         au  jambon,  352 
"         a  l'ognon,  356 
"  au  pain,  355 

"  persil,  354 
"         aux  pommes  de  terre,  355 
"  "   rognons,  sauce  tomate, 

357 
"  "    aux  sardines,  354 

"         sauce  tomate,  352 
"  soufflee,  479 

"         aux  tomates,  353 
Onion  soup  No.  I.,  28 
"         "     No.  II.,  29 
"     No.  III.,  29 
Onions,  baked,  browned,  313 
"        to  boil,  312 
"        with  cream  sauce,  312 
"        glazed,  313 
"        to  peel  (note),  537 

pickled,  518 
"        Spanish,  314 
Open,  clams,  to,  37,  85,  348 
Orange  Bavarian  cream,  456 
"         cream,  459 
"         custard  filling,  420 
"        icing,  422 
jelly,  463 
"  "      in  baskets,  463 

"        layer  cake,  408 
"        peel  for  cakes  (note),  541 

pie,  432 
"        pudding,  baked  No.  I.,  445 
No.  II.  ,445 
"  "         boiled,  446 

"        salad,  487 
"        sherbert,  502 
Order  of  Service  of  a  Dinner,  345 
Ortolans,  209 

"  grilles,  209 

Oseille,  puree  d',  304 
"       soupe  a  1',  33 
Oven,  to  reduce  temperature  of,  542 
Ox-tail  soup,  20 
Ox-tails  a  la  Tartare,  108 
Oyster  balls,   235 

"        and  chicken  pie,  227 

"       dressing  for  boiled  poultry  ,240 

"        force-meat,  235 

"        fritters,  72 

"        gumbo,  23 

"        omelet,  369 

pie,  74 
"        sauce,  251 
"        soup,  38 
Oysters  en  brochette,  77 
"       in  a  chafing-dish,  77 
"       coddled,  73 


Oysters  curried,  76 
"       devilled,  71 
"       fried,  70 
"       and  macaroni,  78 
"       minced,  77 
"       for  pates,  etc.,  76 
"       pan-roast,  71 
"       au  Parmesan,  73 
"       pickled,  73 
"       a  la  poulette,  72 
"       raw,  in  a  block  of  ice,  69 
"         "     on  ]^.  shell,  70 
"       roast,  71 
"       scalloped,  75 
"       to  select  (note),  533 
"       steamed,  71 
"       stewed,  72 
Oyster-plant,  315 

"  fried,  316 

"  fritters,  316 

"  mock  oysters  of,  316 

(note),  537 

"  saute,  315 

"  scalloped,  316 

"  stewed,  315 

PAIN  perdu,  482 
"      de  veau,  143 
Pain  de  viande,  144 
"      "       "        en  gelee,  230 
"      "  volaille,  191 
Panais,  beignets  de,  319 
"        a  la  creme,  319 
"        frits,  320 
"        puree  de,  320 
"        sautes,  319 
Pan  boracho,  467 
"     cakes,  482 
"     dowdy,  435 
Parfait  au  cafe,  494 
Parmentier  soup  (potato),  27 
Parsley  cream  sauce,  251 
"       fried,  241 
"       sauce,  256 
Parsnip  balls,  320 

"        fritters,  319 
Parsnips,  to  boil,  318 
"  fried,  320 

"  mashed,  320 

"  saute,  319 

"  stewed  with   cream   sauce, 

319 
Partridges,  broiled  No.  I..  209 
"  "        No.  II,  210 

"  aux  choux,  211 

"  en  compote,  213 

"  jellied,  211 

"  roast,  211 


566                                               INDEX. 

Paste,  good  plain,  425 

Philadelphia  potatoes,  273 

"      suet,  426 

"            White  Mountain  Cake, 

Pastry  croutons,  241 

403 

"      Pies,  etc.,  423 

"            fish-house  punch,  528 

"      potato,  425 

"            terrapin,  68 

11      sandwiches,  427 

Pickle,  black,  516 

Patates  douces,  277 

"       celery,  516 

"       caramel,  277 

"       hash,  518 

"       puree,  sauce  tomate, 

"       Indian,  517 

277 

"       pepper,  516 

"              "       sautees  aubeurre,  277 

"       sauce,  249 

Pate,  feuilletee,  423 

"       spiced  peaches,  519 

"     chicken,  jellied,  191 

Pick 

ed  cauliflower,  519 

"     game,          "         223 

gherkins,  519 

"     de  gibier  en  gelee,  223 

■ 

nasturtiums,  517 

"     d'huitres,  74 

' 

onions,  518 

Pates,  scallop,  84 

' 

oysters,  73 

Peach,  dried,  pudding,  437 

' 

shad,  51 

"        filling,  419 

4 

string-beans,  519 

"        fritters,  477 

Pick 

es,  Catsups,  etc.,  515 

"        marmalade,  512 

' 

green  tomato,  5 15 

"        short-cake,  434 

' 

"      soy,  515 

"        sponge,  486 

' 

"           "      sweet,  519 

"        sweetmeats,  508 

"        and  preserves  (note),  533 

"        tart,  433 

Pie,  apple,  431 

Peaches,  brandied,  506 

"     blackberry,  431 

"         and  cream,  frozen,  495 

"     cherry,  431 

"         frozen,  501 

"     chicken  and  oyster,  227 

"         preserved  in  syrup,  505 

"     cranberry,  431 

"         spiced,  519 

"     crust,  flaky,  424 

Pea-nut  candy,  514 

"     currant,  431 

Pea  soup,  green,  27 

"     custard,  429 

Peas,  to  boil  green,  289 

"     lemon,  432 

"       "     "     tender  (note),  538 

"         "       custard,     old-fashioned 

"      puree  of,  290 

.     428 

"         "        "    dried,  307 

"     mince  No.  I.,  426 

"      rule  for  boiling,  (note),  536 

"         "      No.  II.,  427 

"      stewed,  289 

"     orange,  432 

Pease  soup,  31 

"     oyster,  74 

Pebre,  188 

"     peach  (see  tart),  433 

Pecan -nut  candy,  514 

"     pumpkin,  429 

Peches  glacees,  501 

"     squash,  430 

"          "         a  la  creme,  495 

"     sweet-potato  custard,  430 

"      mousse  aux,  486 

"     Washington,  416 

Pepper  (note),  538 

Pieds  de  cochon  frits,  172 

"       pickle,  516 

Pie-plant,  488 

"       sauce,  Spanish  red,  256 

"         Charlotte,  483 

"       spirits  of,  520 

to  keep,  513 

"       vinegar,  520 

Pig,  roast,  164 

Peppers,  stuffed,  295 

Pigeon  pie,  English,  217 

Perdrix  aux  choux,  211 

Pigeons,  broiled,  215 

"         en  gelee,  211 

' 

compote  of,  216 

"         grillees  No.  I.,  209 

' 

grille's,  215 

"               "       No.  II.,  210 

' 

roasted,  214 

"         roties,  211 

' 

stewed  in  consomme,  216 

Pheasants,    partridges,    quail    (note), 

Pigs'  feet,  fried,  172 

535 

"        "      soused,  172 

Philadelphia  chicken  croquettes,  228 

Pimt 

;nts,  farcis,  295 

INDEX. 


567 


Pimiento  dulce,  salsa,  256 
Pine-apple  cream,  frozen,  495 
"  ice-cream,  497 

"  marmalade,  512 

"  mousse,  496 

"  to  prepare  for  table,  489 

"  sherbet,  502 

"  snow,  467 

"  tart,  434 

Pintade,  braisee,  201 
"        grillee,  201 
"        rotie,  200 
Plain  braise,  93 

"     cake,  very  light,  404 
Planked  shad,  50 

"       (note),  533 
Plover,  209 
Plum-pudding,  446 

"  English,  447, 

"  glace,  498 

made  over,  465 
Plums,  preserved,  508 
Pluvier,  209 
Poached,  eggs,  360 

"  "      with    anchovy    toast, 

360 
Pois  petits,  No.  I.,  289 
"      No.  II.,  289 
"        "      sautes,  289 
"     puree  de,  290 
' '     sees,  puree  de,  307 
Poisson,  coulis  de,  38 

' '        cuit  au  court  bouillon,  43 
"        a  la  Delmonico,  60 
Poivrade,  sauce,  257 
Pommes,  Charlotte  de,  483 
"         mousse  aux,  486 
"        puree  de,  262 
"         de  terre  en  boulettes,  270 
"  "     "      a  la  bourgeoise,  275 

"  "     "       "    Brabanconne, 

271 
"  "     "      au  court-bouillon, 

266 
"  "     "      a  la  creme,  274 

"  "     "       "     creole,  270 

"  "     "      croquettes  de,  270 

"  "     "      a  la  Delmonico,  273 

"  "     "       "    diable,  273 

"  "     "       "   duchesse,  274 

"  "     "      farcies,  272 

"  "     "      a  la  Francaise,  277 

"  "     "      frites,  275 

"  "     "      a  la  Hollandaise, 

275 
"  "     "       "    Julienne,  276 

"  "     "        "    Lyonnaise,  268 

"         "     "      au  naturel,  266 


Pommes  de  terre  en  neige,  267 

"      "      a  la  Parisienne,  276 
"     "       "    poulette,  272 
"     "      en  puree,  267 
"     "      salade  de,  334 
"     "      sauce  blanche,  274 
"     "      sautees,  268 
"     "      en  souffle,  271 
tourte  aux,  431 
Ponche,  a.  la  Romaine,  503 

"        au  the,  526 
Pop-overs  No.  I.,  387 

No.  II.,  387 
Pore,  cochon  de  lait,  164 
"      cotelettes,  grillees,  cornichons, 

165 
"      filets,  sautes,  165 
"      longe  rotie,  164 
Pork,  164 

"      bacon  in  batter  for  breakfast, 

173 
"  "       fried  No.  I.,  173 

"  "  "     No.  II.,  173 

"         "      toasted,  173 
"      and  beans,  166 
"      chops  broiled,  pickle  sauce,  165 
"      creole  sausages,  170 
"      head  cheese,  169 
"      larding  (note),  534 
"      loin  roast,  164 
"     pigs'  feet,  soused,  172 
"        "       "     fried,  172 
"      roast  pig,  164 
"      sausage  roll,  171 
"      sausages  with  cabbage,  172 
11  "        a  la  creole,  170 

"  "        fried  with  apples,  171 

"  "        home-made  breakfast, 

171 
"     sausages,  to  keep  (note),  535 
"  "        with  puree  of  potatoes, 

171 
"      scrapple,  170 
"     tenderloins,  165 
Potage,  a.  la  d'Artois,  27 

"         "    bonne  femme,  33 
"         "         "      menagere,  16 
"         "    Chantilly,  32 
"         "    Conde,  32 
"         "    Crecy  No.  I.,  26 
"        "     No.  II.,  26 
"       croute-au-pot,  12 
"       a  la  Julienne,  12 
"       aux  laitues,  17 
"       au  macaroni,  9 
"       de  nouilles,  No.  I.,  9 
"       "         "        No.  II.,  10 
No.  III.,  10 


568 


INDEX 


Potage,  Parmentier,  27 

"       aux  pates  d'ltalie,  11 
"       a  la  paysanne,  34 

"     Russe,  17 
"       au  sagou,  10 
"       a  la  semoule,  12 
"       au  tapioca,  9 
"       aux  tomates,  30 
"       vermicelli,  11 
Potato  balls,  270 
"       chips,  275 
"       croquettes,  270 
"       dressing,  239 
"       hash,  cream,  274 
"  "      fried,  269 

"       pastry,  425 
"       pudding,  443 
"       puff,  269 
"       salad,  334 
"       snow,  267 

souffle,  271 
"       soup,  27 
Potatoes,  baked,  267 

"         to  boil,  266 

"  "     "     new,  267 

"         boiled,  cold,  268 

"         bourgeoise,  275 

"  a  la  Brabanconne,  271 

"  "     Delmonico,  273 

"  "     diable,  273 

"  "    duchesse,  274 

"  farcied,  272 

"         a  la  Francaise,  277 

"         fricasseed,  274 

"         a  la  Hollandaise,  275 

"  "    Julienne,  276 

"         Lyonnaise,  268 

"         mashed,  267 

"         New  Orleans,  270 

"         a  la  Parisienne,  276 

"  Philadelphia,  273 

"         roast,  with  meat,  268 

"         saute,  268 

"         to  serve  with  boiled  fish,  266 

"         stewed,  272 
Pot-au-feu,  5 
Pot-pie,  beefsteak,  104 

"         veal,  138 
Potomac  herring,  65 
Pot-roast,  93 
Poule  au  riz,  196 

Poulet,  beignets,  a  la  Tartare,  187 
"       au  blanc,  195 
"       braise  aux  carottes,  180 
"  "      au  macaroni,  179 

"  "      aux  topinambours,  180 

"       a  la  diable,  194 
"       diable,  en  caisses,  190 


Poulet,  a  l'Espagnole,  181 
"        "  estragon,  195 
"       farci  aux  tomates,  194 
"       filets  de,  sautes,  185 
fricassee,  No.  I.,  182 
No.  II.,  183 
"         sauce  tomate,  190 
"       grille  aux  cressons,  179 
"       au  kari,  184 
"       matelote  de,  187 
"       a  la  reine,  189 
"       saute  aux  champignons,  186 
"  "       "    petits  pois,  185 

Poulets  rotis,  176 
Poulette  sauce,  248 
Poultry,  175 

"        to  clean,  175 
"        to  truss,  176 
Pound  cake,  396 

"      cakes,  small,  409 
Preface,  iii. 
Preserves,  505 

' '  blackberry  sweetmeats,  509 

"  brandied  peaches,  506 

"  cherries,  in  syrup,  508 

"  cherry  sweetmeats,  5  ro 

"  citron  (see  watermelon),  507 

"  currant  jelly,  511 

"       sweetmeats,  510 
"  drumheads   (see    water- 

melon), 507 
"  grape  jelly,  511 

"      sweetmeats,  510 
"  jamboree,  513 

"  peach  marmalade,  512 

"      sweetmeats,  508 
"  peaches,  in  syrup,  505 

"  pie-plant,  513 

"  pine-apple  marmalade,  512 

"  plums,  508 

' '  strawberry  sweetmeats,  509 

"  syrup  for,  505 

"  watermelon  rind,  507 

Promises,  410 
Prune  pudding,  441 
Pudding,  amber,  444 
"        Amherst,  447 
"        apple,  frozen,  497 

"      old-fashioned,  449 
"  "      spiced,  436 

"        batter,  baked,  442 
"        Beaulieu,  438 
"        beefsteak,  104 
"        blackberry,  baked,  436 
"  boiled,  436 

"        brown  Betty,  435 
"         cabinet,  437 
"  "       cold,  462 


INDEX. 


569 


Pudd 


Pudd 


ng,  cherry,  442 
chocolate,  444 
cocoa-nut  No.  I.,  443 
No.  II.,  443 
cottage,  441 
date,  449 

fig,  449 

frozen  fruit,  499 
gelatine,  461 
huckleberry,  437 

"  roly-poly,  441 

iced,  500 
Indian,  444 

"       old-fashioned,  445 
lemon,  baked  No.  I.,  445 
"      No.  II.,  446 
"      boiled,  446 
minute,  442 
Nesselrode,  498 
orange,  baked  No.  I.,  445 
"  "      No.  II.,  445 

"       boiled,  446 
pan-dowdy,  435 
peach  (dried),  437 
plum,  446 

"      glace,  498 

"      English,  447 

"      made  over,  465 
potato,  443 
prune,  441 
rice  cream,  439 

"    No.  I.,  439 

"    No.  II.,  440 

"    and  peach,  440 
roly-poly  baked,  440 
"  boiled,  441 

royal  Coburg,  438 
sauce,  brandy,  452 

"       caramel,  451 

"       custard,  4gi 

"       golden,  450 
hard,  452 

"  "      plain,  452 

"       lemon,  452 

"       Maryland  wine,  453 

"       silver,  451 

"       strawberry,  451 

"      velvet,  450 

"       whipped  cream,  450 

"       wine,  453 
sauces,  450 
Scandinavian  fish,  53 
snow,  461 
spice,  448 
suet,  448 
sweet  potato,  441 
Yorkshire,  93,  392 
ngs,  423 


Puff-paste,  423 
Puffs,  386 

"  ,  bread,  376 
breakfast,  387 
Pumpkin  pie,  429 
Punch,  frozen,  503 

"       Philadelphia  fish-house,  528 
"       Roman,  503 

"       tea,  526 
Puree   Chantilly,  32,  307 

"       a  la  Conde,  32,  306 

"        "     Dustan,  33 

"       de  legumes,  36 

"        "  pois  sees,  31,  307 

"        "  pommes,  262 

"       Soubise,  29 

"       de  tomates,  23 

"        "         "         au  macaroni,  24 

"        "         "         aux  nouilles,  24 

"        "         "  "    quenelles,  24 

Purees  in  general,  24 

QUAIL,  broiled,  212 
"       en  compote  (cold),  213 
"       roasted,  212 
"       saute  in  lard,  213 
Queen  cakes,  414 

"      Elizabeth's  toast,  482 
Quenelles,  233 

"  fish,  234 

"  de  poisson,  234 

"  Soyer's,  234 

Queues  de  bceuf,  a  la  Tartare,  108 
Quinces,  baked,  487 

RABBIT,  barbecued,  218 
"         au  chasseur,  219 
"         potted,  220 
Racahout,  525 

Ragout   de  bceuf  au  gombo,  109 
"         "    chevreuil,  222 
"         "    concombres,  302 
Raifort,  sauce  au,  260 
Raisins,  to  stone  (note),  541 
Raspberry,  Charlotte,  484 

"  and  currant  jelly,  511 

"  ice,  501 

"  Saracen,  484 

"  short-cake,  434 

"  toast,  485 

"  vinegar,  527 

Ratatouille,  Creole,  142 
Ravigote  sauce,  258 
Red  bean  salad,  330 

"       "     soup,  32 
Reed-birds,  209 

"  broiled,  209 

Re-heating  meats,  89 


570 


INDEX. 


Reine,  soup  a  la,  No.  I.,  18 

"       "      No.  II.,  19 
Relishes  For  Breakfast,  347 

"         Savory,  340 
Remedy  for  burns  (note),  546 
Remoulade,  sauce,  259 

"  "      verte,  259 

Rhubarb,  488 
Rice,  boiled,  323 
border,  322 
cream  pudding,  439 
Creole,  323 
griddle-cakes,  389 
parched,  530 
and  peach,  440 
pudding  No.  I.,  439 

"         No.  II.,  440 
souffle,  481 
soup,  11 

"      without  meat,  27 
waffles,  383 
water,  530 
de  veau,  beignets  de,  147 
"      "      aux  champignons,  149 
"      "      grilles,  150 
"      "      au  kari,  150 
"      "      en  mayonnaise,  336 
"      "      panes,  146 
"      "      piques  et  braise,  147 
"      "      a  la  poulette,  149 
"      "     rotis,  150 
"      "      sautes,  148 
Rissoles,  229 
Riz,  323 

creme  de,  28 
a  la  creme,  439 
au  lait  No.  I.,  439 
"    "    No.  II.,  440 
au  maigre,  27 
perle  323 
Roast  beef,  90 
Roasted  ice-cream,  499 
Robert  sauce,  257 
Rodgrod  (Danish),  472 
Rognons   de  bceuf  sautes,  109 
"  en  brochette,  127 

"  de  mouton  panes,  127 

"  a  la  terrapin,  no 

"         de  veau,  163 
Roll,  beef,  108 
Rolls,  bread,  375 

"      corn,  386 
Roly-poly  pudding,  baked,  440 
"  "         boiled,  441, 

"  "         huckleberry,  441 

Romaine  salad,  327 
Root-beer,  527 
Rosbif,  90 


Rouleau  de  bceuf,  108 
Roulette,  bceuf  en,  108 
Roux,  brown,  243 

"       white,  244 
Royal  Coburg  pudding,  438 
Royale,  consomme  a  la,  8 
Rum  in  cooking,  use  of,  543 

"     icing,  421 

"  omelet,  357 
Russe,  salade,  333 
Russian  salad,  333 

"       soup,  17 
Rust,  to  remove,  from  steel,  546 
Rye  bread,  374 

SAGE  dressing,  240 
"     stuffing,  239 
Sago  soup,  10 

Salad,  apple  and  orange,  488 

"  asparagus,  328 

"  bouilli,  336 

"  cauliflower,  329 

"  celery,  330 

"  "       cabbage,  and  beets,  330 

"  "       doucette,  and  beets,  330 

"  "      mayonnaise,  331 

"  cheese,  342 

"  chicken,  335 

"  "         and  celery,  335 

"  "  "    lettuce,  334 

"  chick ory,  327 

"  cold  slaw,  331 

"         "       "      old-fashioned,  331 

"  corn,  327 

"  crab,  83 

"  cress,  pepper-grass,   and  cher- 
vil, 327 

"  cucumber,  301 

"  "         and  onion,  328 

"  dandelion,  327 

"  a  la  Demidoff,  333 

"  of  endives,  326 

"  escarole,  327 

"  fetticus,  327 

"  fish,  47 

"  hard-boiled  egg,  337 

"  Jerusalem  artichokes,  329 

"  lentil,  334 

"  lettuce,  326 

"  lobster,  337 

"  okra,  329 

"  orange,  487 

"  potato,  334 

"  red-bean,  330 

"  Romaine,  327 

"  Russian,  333 

"  salmon,  mayonnaise  of,  338 

"  sardine,  337 


INDEX. 


571 


Salad,  scallop,  84 

"      shad- roe,  mayonnaise  of,  338 
"       shrimp,  339 
"      string-bean,  328 
"       sweetbread,  mayonnaise,  336 
"      tomato,  331 
"  "         mayonnaise,  332 

"       turkey  olio,  335 
"      veal,  335 
"      water-cress,  327 
"       white-bean,  332 
Salade,  asperges  en,  328 
"       de  bouilli,  336 
"        "  celeri,  330 
"        "       "      en  mayonnaise,  331 
"       chou-fleur  en,  329 
"       de  concombres,  328 
"        "  crevettes,  339 
"        "  gombos,  329 
"       haricots,  verts  en,  328 

de  lentilles,  334 
"       mayonnaise  de  saumon,  338 
"  "  volaille,  334 

"       ceufs  durs  en,  337 
"       de  pommes  de  terre,  334 
"       russe,  333 
"       de  tomates,  331 
"        "         "         en   mayonnaise, 

332 
"       de  topinambours,  329 
Sally  Lunn,  377 
Salmi  de  canard,  203 
"     of  tame  duck,  203 
-"      "  wild       "       with    olives,  206 
Salmon,  boiled,  56 
"        croquettes,  56 
"        mayonnaise  of,  338 
"        with  mayonnaise  sauce,  338 
"        steaks,  56 
Salt  cod,  a  la  bonne  femme,  57 

"       "     fish,  to  freshen,  64 
Salt  mackerel,  broiled,  64 
Salted  almonds,  344 
Salt-rising  bread,  376 
Salsifis,  beignets  de,  316 
"       coquilles  de,  316 
"       au  gratin,  316 
Salsify,  315 

"       cakes,  fried,  316 
"       fritters,  316 
"       mock-oysters  of,  316 
"       saute,  315 
"       scalloped,  316 
"       stewed,  with  cream  sauce,  315 
Samp,  309 

"       fried,  309 
Sandwiches,  Indian,  343 
"  pastry,  427 


Saracen,  raspberry,  484 
"        strawberry,  484 
Sardine  omelet,  354 

"       salad,  337 
Sardines  on  toast  with  cheese,  342 
Sauce,  Allemande,  248 

anchovy,  250 

apple,  262 

Beartiaise,  252 

Bechamel,  247 

au  beurre  d'anchois,  250 

beurre  maitre  d'hotel,  252 

au  beurre  noir,  254 

blanche,  250 

blending  for,  245 

blonde,  260 

brown,  246 

"       gravy,  246 
"       roux,  243 

butter,  plain  melted,  255 

caper,  250 

caramel  (pudding),  451 

cauliflower,  251 

celery,  249 

aux  champignons,  254 

chestnut,  259 

aux  choux-fleurs,  251 

coloring  for,  245 

aux  concombres,  262 
"    cornichons,  249 

cranberry,  263 

cream,  247 

cucumber,  262 

custard  (pudding),  451 

devil,  249 

diable,  249 

Espagnole,  246 

golden  (pudding),  450 

hard  "  452 

hard-egg,  250 

Hollandaise,  255 

homard,  250 

horse-radish,  260 

aux  huitres,  251 

jelly,  for  venison,  263 

lemon  (pudding),  452 

lobster,  250 

madeira,  254 

maitre  d'hotel,  252 

"  "       butter,  252 

aux  marrons,  259 

Maryland  wine  (pudding),  453 

matelote,  for  fish,  262 

mayonnaise,  261 

melted  butter,  plain,  255 

mint,  260 

mushroom,  for  filet  of  beef,  254 

oyster,  251 


572 


INDEX. 


Sauce,  parsley.  256 

"  "        cream,  251 

"      pepper,  Spanish  red,  256 

"      persil,  256 

"      pickle,  249 

"       poivrade,  257 

"      poulette,  248 

"      au  raifort,  260 

"      ravigote  258 

"       remoulade,  259 

"  verte,  259 

"       Robert,  257 

"      shad-roe,  258 

"       silver  (pudding),  451 

"       to  skim  (note),  538 

"      soubise,  257 

"      Spanish  red  pepper,  256 

"       strawberry  (pudding),  451 

"      Tartare,  261 

"       terrapin,  253 

"      tomato,  255 

"  "        with  wine,  256 

"      veloute',  251 

"       velvet  (pudding),  450 

"       vinaigrette,  258 

"       whipped-cream  (pudding),  450 

"      white,  250 

"  "      roux  for,  244 

"       wine  (pudding),  453 
Sauces,  general  directions  for,  243 
Saumon,  croquettes  de,  56 

"         sauce  mayonnaise,  56 
Saucisses  aux  choux,  172 
"  a  la  Creole,  170 

"  frites  aux  pommes,  171 

"  puree  de  pommes  de  terre, 

171 
Sausage,    dressing  for   turkeys,    239, 
241 

"  meat  for  breakfast,  232 

Sausages  with  cabbage,  172 

"  Creole,  170 

"  fried  with  apples,  171 

"  home-made  breakfast,  171 

"  to  keep  (note),  535 

"  with  puree  of  potatoes,  171 

"  roll,  171 

Savory  Relishes,  340 

"        soup, 16 

"  "      maigre,  38 

Savoy  cake,  398 
Scalloped  oysters,  75 
Scallops,  devilled,  84 

"         a  la  diable,  84 
fried,  83 

"         pates,  84 

"         a  la  poulette,  84 

"         salad,  84 


Scallops,  stewed,  84 
Scandinavian  fish  pudding,  53 
Schmier-kase,  371 
Scotch  broth,  19 
"      roll,  107 
"      woodcock,  343 
Scrapple,  170 

Select  oysters,  to  (note),  533 
Shad,  baked  No.  I.,  49 
"      No.  II.,  50 
"     boiled,  49 

"      cold  boiled  a  la  Tartare,  50 
"      cutlets  a  l'oseille,  49 
"      planked,  50 

(note),  533 
"  "  pickled,  51 

"  "  soused,  51 

Shad-roe  croquettes,  51 

"         salad,  338 
Sheeps'  kidneys  en  brochette,  127 
Sheets  of  iron  or  tin  (note),  533 
Shell-fish,  68 

"  clams,  chowder  No.  I.,  86 

No.  II.,  87 
"  "        with  cream,  85 

14  "        farcied,  85 

"  "        fritters,  85 

"  "        to  open,  37,  85 

"  "        raw,  85 

"  "        roast,  86 

"  "        stew,  85 

"  crabs,  devilled,  82 

"  "       farcied,  82 

"  "       hard,  boiled,  82 

"  "       salad,  83 

"  "       soft-shell,  fried,  82 

"  lobster,  bisque,  36 

"  "         to  boil,  78 

"        broiled  a  l'Ameri- 
caine,  79 
"  "        chops,  80 

"  "         curry,  81 

"  "        devilled,  81 

"  "        to  dress  cold,  79 

"  "        farcied,  81 

"  "         mayonnaise,  337 

"  "        a.  la  Newberg,  80 

"  "        sauce,  250 

"  "         to  select  (note),  534 

"  oyster  balls,  235 

"  oysters  en  brochette,  77 

"  "       in  a  chafing-dish,  77 

"  "       and    chicken    pie, 

227 
"        coddled,  73 
"  "        curried,  76 

"  "        devilled,  71 

"  "        dressing,  240 


INDEX. 


573 


Shell-fish,  oysters,  fried,  70 
"  "        fritters,  72 

"        force-meat,  235 
"        and  macaroni,  78 
"  "        minced,  77 

"        omelet,  369 
"  "        pan-roast,  71 

"  "        au  Parmesan,  73 

"  "        for  pates,  etc.,  76 

"  "        pickled,  73 

"        Pie,  74 
"  "       a  la  poulette,  72 

"  "        raw,  on  a  block  of 

ice,  69 
"  "        roast,  71 

"  "        sauce,  251 

"  "        scalloped,  75 

"  "        to  select  (note),  533 

"  "        on  %,  shell,  70 

"  "        steamed,  71 

"  "       stewed,  72 

"  terrapin,  Baltimore,  69 

"         Philadelphia,  68 
Shepherd's  pie,  126 
Sherbet,  currant,  503 
"        orange,  502 
"        pine-apple,  502 
"        strawberry,  503 
Short-cake,  peach,  434 
"  raspberry,  434 

"  strawberry,  434 

Short-cakes,  378 

"  cream,  379, 

Shrewsbury  court-bouillon,  65 
Shrimp  salad,  339 
Slip,  470 
Smelts,  baked,  52 
"       broiled,  52 
"       fried,  52 
"       mayonnaise,  53 
"       stewed,  53 
Smoked  beef  with  cream,  109 
"      and  eggs,  358 
"        tongue,  to  boil,  ill 
Snipe,  roasted  No.  I.,  208 
"       No.  II.,  208 
"      saute,  207 
Snow  cream,  456 

"       pudding,  461 
Soda  biscuits,  378 
Soft-shell  crabs,  fried,  82 
Sole  a  l'Aurore,  63 
"    fried,  62 

"    fillets  of,-maitre  d'hotel,  63 
"       "       "    a  la  Orly,  62 
Sorbet,  503 
Sorrel,  puree  of,  304 
"      soup,  33 


Soubise,  puree,  29 
Souffle,  arrowroot,  480 
"       chicken  Mo  I.,  182 

"       No.  II.,  186 
"       ginger»  480 
"       ham, 168 
"       potato,  271 
"       rice,  481 
"       tomato,  282 
Soufflee,  omelette,  479 
Soup,  amber  consomme,  7 
arrowroot,  11 
asparagus,  25 
bean,  black,  31 
"      lima  and  tomatoes,  39 
"      red,  32 
"      turtle,  31 
"      white,  33 
beef  and  okra,  17 
bisque  of  clams,  37 
"       "  lobster,  36 
"      tomato,  30 
blending  for,  245 
bouillon,  fait  en  1  heure,  8 

"  gilt-edged,  3 

broth,  hasty,  8 

"      made  in  1  hour,  8 
calf's  head,  13 
chicken  consomme,  8 
"         gumbo,  23 
"  "       file,  21 

clearing,  6 
coloring,  6,  245 
consomme,  1 

"  amber,  7 

"  dore,  7 

"  with  macaroni,  9 

' '  aux  ceuf  s  poches,  10 

"  with  poached  eggs, 

10 
"  a  la  royale,  8 

"  de  volaille,  8 

crab  gumbo  No.  I.,  23 

"         "       No.  II.,  39 
Crecy  No.  I.,  26 
"      No.  II.,  26 
creme  de  riz,  28 
croute-au-pot,  12 
economical,  16 

"  maigre,  34 

farina,  12 
fish,  39 

General  Directions  for,  1 
giblet,  21 
green-pea,  27 
with  Italian  pastes,  n 
Julienne,  12 
lentil,  32 


574 


INDEX. 


Soup,  lettuce,  17 

Soupe,  maigre,  35 

'      lobster  bisque,  36 

"       aux  ognons,  28 

1      macaroni,  37 

"      a  l'oseille,  33 

'      maigre,  35 

"      au  riz,  11 

•             "       economical,  34 

"      a.  la  tortue  No.  I.,  14 

1             "       savory,  38 

"      No.  II.,  15 

'             "       summer,  34 

Soups,    purees,    and    soups    without 

"       white,  34 

meat,  I 

1      milk,  28 

Soused  shad,  51 

'      mock- turtle  No.  I.,  14 

Soy,  green  tomato,  515 

No.  II.,  15 

Spanish   chicken,  181 

'      mulligatawny,  20 

"        cream,  460 

'      noodle,  French,  10 

"        red-pepper  sauce,  256 

'            "       German,  9 

"         toast,  481 

'            "       Swedish,  10 

Spice  pudding,  448 

•      Normandy,  18 

Spiced  peaches,  519 

'      okra  gumbo,  22 

"      vinegar,  521 

'      onion  No.  I.,  28 

Spinach  a  la  creme,  303 

'          "      No.  II.,  29 

' '       au  jus,  302 

"      No.  III.,  29 

"       pie-plant,  303 

'      ox-tail,  20 

Sponge,  apple,  486 

1      oyster,  38 

"        cake,  layer,  398 

1          "        gumbo,  23 

"           "     No.  I.,  397 

'      Parmentier,  27 

"     No.  II.,  397 

1      pease,  31 

"        peach,  486 

'      potato,  27 

Sprouts,  Brussels,  293 

'      pot-au-feu,  5 

Sprue  and  eggs,  288 

'      red-bee.n,  32 

Squabs,  broiled,  215 

'      a  la  reine  No.  I.,  18 

"       roasted,  214 

"     No.  II.,  19 

Squash  pie  (see  pumpkin),  429 

1      rice,  11 

"      summer,  294 

'         "     without  meat,  27 

"      Turk's  head,  294 

4      Russian,  17 

Stale-bread  griddle-cakes,  391 

'      sago,  10 

Steak  a  la  Shrewsbury,  103 

'      savory,  16 

Steam  fish,  to,  44 

1           "        maigre,  38 

Steel,  to  remove  rust  from,  546 

'      Scotch  broth,  19 

Stewed  fish  en  matelote,  45 

'      sorrel,  33 

Stock,  fish,  38 

'      summer  maigre,  34 

Strawberries   and  cream,  frozen,  496 

'      tapioca,  9 

"            frozen,  501 

1      tomato  bisque,  30 

"            to  prepare  for  table,  488 

1            "       No.  I.,  23 

Strawberry   Bavarian  cream,  455 

'            "       No.  II.,  30 

"           fritters,  478 

'             "       and  lima  beans,  39 

"          ice,  501 

"          "    macaroni,  24 

"           ice-cream,  496 

1             "       with  noodles,  24 

"           Saracen,  484 

"          "     quenelles,  24 

"           sauce  (pudding),  451 

'      turtle-bean,  31 

"           sherbet,  503 

'      vegetable,  36 

"           short-cake,  434 

'      vermicelli,  11 

"           sweetmeats,  509 

'      white,  18 

"           tart,  434 

'           "      bean,  33 

Stray  Notes,  532 

'           "      maigre,  34 

String-beans,  305 

"      winter  okra,  35 

"             pickled,  519 

Soupe   blanche,  34 

"              salad  of,  328 

"      a  la  bonne  menagere,  16 

Stuffing,  sage,  for  geese,  239 

"      aux  huitres,  38 

Suet  dumplings,  392 

"      au  kit,  28 

"   paste,  426 

575 


Suet  pudding,  448 
Swedish  noodle  soup,  10 
Sweetbreads,  Baltimore  style,  152 

braised  and  larded,  147 
"  broiled,  150 

en  casserole,  151 
croquettes  of,  151 
"  curried,  150 

fried,  146 
"  fritters  of,  147 

mayonnaise  of,  336 
with  mushrooms,  149 
"  note,  534 

a  la  poulette,  149 
to  prepare,  146 
roasted,  150 
saute,  148 
Sweet-herb,  dressing  for  veal,  240 
Sweetmeat  omelet,  358 
Sweetmeats,  blackberry,  509 
"  cherry,  510 

"  currant,  510 

grape,  510 
peach,  508 
"  strawberry,  509 

Sweet- pickle,  green  tomato,  519 
Sweet-potato  custard  pie,  430 

dressing  for  turkey,  240 
pudding,  441 
Sweet  potatoes,  to  bake  (note),  538 
"  "  baked,  277 

"  "  boiled,  278 

"  "  caramel,  277 

"  "  fried,  277 

"  "  puree,  baked,  278 

"       with    tomato 
sauce,  279 
"  "  roasted  with  meat,  278 

Syrup,  453 

"       to  check  boiling  (note),  542 
"       for  griddle-cakes,  453 
"        "   preserves,  505 

TABLE  of  Comparative  Weights 
and  Measures,  xii. 
Tame  duck,  203 
Tapioca  jelly,  473 
"       soup,  9 
"       whip,  474 
Tarragon,  vinegar,  520 
Tart,  cranberry,  433 
"      creamed  apple,  435 
"      peach,  433 
"      pine-apple,  434 
"      strawberry,  434 
Tartare  sauce,  261 
Tea  biscuit,  378 
"     cakes,  cream,  393 


Tea,  iced,  524 
"     to  make  good,  523 
"     punch,  526 
"     Russian,  524 
Terrapin,  Baltimore,  69 
"  mock,  159 

Philadelphia,  68 
"  sauce,  253 

Tete  de  veau,  fromage  de,  154 
"     "       "      au  gratin,  153 
"     "       "       "    naturel,  153 
"     "       "      a  la  terrapin,  155 
"     "       "      aux  tomates,  154 
Timbale  de  macaroni,  224 
Time-table  for  game,  174 
"  "    meats,  88 

"    poultry,  174 
"  "   vegetables,  264 

Tipsy  cake,  467 
Toad-in-the-hole,  232 
Toast,  anchovy,  343 
"      apricot,  485 
"      Bombay,  343 
"      cherry,  484 
"      Queen  Elizabeth's,  482 
"      raspberry,  485 
"      Spanish,  481 
"      water,  530 
Tomates,  farcies  279 

"     a  l'ecarlate,  280 
' '     aux  champignons,  282 
"     a  la  reine,  280 
"  frites  a  la  creme,  279 

"         macaroni  aux,  283 
"         riz  aux,  282 
"         en  souffle,  282 
Tomato  bisque,  36. 

"  catsup  No.  I..  520 

"  "       No.  II.,  521 

' '         and  lima  bean  soup,  39 
"  "    macaroni  soup,  24 

"         mayonnaise,  332 
"  pickle,  green,  515 

"         rice,  282 
"         salad,  331 
"         sauce,  255 

"       with  wine,  256 
"  souffle,  282 

"         soup  No.  I.,  23 
"  "     No.  II.,  30 

"  "     with  noodles,  24 

"  "        "     quenelles,  24 

"         soy,  green,  515 
"         sweet-pickle,  green,  519 
Tomatoes,  baked,  279 

"  a  l'ecarlate,  280 

' '  fried  with  cream,  279 

"  and  macaroni,  283 


S76 


INDEX., 


Tomatoes,  roasted  with  beef ,  etc.,  280 
"  scalloped,  281 

"  with  meat,  231 

"  stewed,  281 

"  stuffed    with    mushrooms, 

282 
"  "       a  la  reine,  280 

"       with  tomato  sauce, 
280 
Tongue,  to  boil,  11 1 
"        braised,  111, 

"         puree    of    potatoes, 
112 
"  "         puree  of  spinach,  1 13 

"  "         sauce  piquante,  113 

"      Tartare,  112 
"         tomato  sauce,  113 
"         jellied,  112 
"         lambs',  129,  130 
"        smoked,  to  boil,  in 
Topinambours  braises,  311 

a  la  creme,  310 
"  frits,  311 

au  gratin,  311 
puree  de,  311 
"  rotis,  311 

salade  de,  329 
Torrijas,  481 
Tortilla,  353 
Tot-fait,  481 
Tourte  a  1 'ananas,  434 
"       aux  f raises,  434 
"        "    peches,  433 
"        "    pommes,  431 
Trifle,  467 
Tripe,  fried,  162 

"       a  la  poulette,  162 
"       to  prepare,  162 
"       saute,   162 
Trout,  of  1  pound,  to  boil,  44 
"      brook,  to  fry,  etc.,  45 
Troy  loaf-cake,  394 
Truffle  omelet,  357 
Truffled  eggs,  au  jus,  363 
Truss,  a  fowl  when  drawn,  to,  176 

"       small  birds  (note),  533 
Turbot,  a  la  creme,  mock,  61 
Turcsicus,  125 
Turkey,  boiled,  199 
"         chick,  197 
"        en  daube,  198 
"        olio,  335 
"        roast,  to,  196 
"  "      with  mushrooms,  200 

"       (note),  534 
"  "      with  truffles,  199 

Turkeys,  to  preserve  (note),  535 
Turnips  baked  with  mutton,  321 


Turnips  boiled,  320 

"  "      cream  sauce  with  mut- 

ton, 321 

"        browned,  322 

"        glazed,  321 

"        au  gratin,  322 

"         "  jus,  321 

"        mashed,  321 
Turnip-tops,  304 
Turtle-bean  soup,  31 


VANILLA  ice-cream, 492 
' '  with     eggs, 

491 
Vanilla  ice-cream,  Philadelphia,  491 
Veal,  bewitched,  145 

blanquette  of,  140 
calf's-head  boiled,  153 
"        "     cheese,  154 
"        "     au  gratin,  153 
"        "     mushrooms   and  to- 
matoes, 154 
"        "      a  la  terrapin,  155 
"     heart,  stuffed,  163 
calves'  brains,  beurre  noir,  157 
"  "        fried,  156 

"  "        fritters,  156 

"  "        with      macaroni, 

,   I57 
"  "        a.  la  poulette,  156 

"  "        to  prepare,  156 

"       kidneys,  163 
chops,  a  la  jardiniere  (see  mut- 
ton), 123 

"       a  la  Milanaise,  139 

"       en  papillotes   (see   mut- 
ton), 122 

"       saute,  139 
cream  of,  141 
Creole  ratatouille,  142 
croquettes,  139 
cutlets,  braised,  137 

"       fried,  136 

"  "       a  la  Maryland,  137 

"       saute,  138 
devilled,  en  caisse,  144 
fillet,  braised,  134 

"  "       Soubise  sauce,  134 

"     stuffed,  roasted,  133 
flank  (cold),  stuffed,  140 
fourchette,  161 
fricandeau,  134 

"  with  Sorrel,  135 

"  a  la  Soubise,  135 

general  remarks,  132 
and  ham  croquettes,  139 
"       "    pie  (see  blackbird), 217 


577 


Veal,  jellied,  145 

knuckle,  browned,  136 
liver  and  bacon,  158 
"     braised,  158 
"     broiled,  161 
"     roasted,  159 
"     saute,  160 
"  "      with    pickle    sauce, 

160 
"     smothered  in  onions,  160 
loaf,  143 
loin,  roast,  133 
mock-terrapin,  159 
olives,  143 
pot-pie,  138 
salad,  335 

sweetbreads,  braised  and  larded, 
147 
"  broiled,  150 

en  casseroles,   151 
croquettes,  151 
"  curried,  150 

fried,  146 
"  fritters,  147 

mayonnaise  of,  336 
"  with    mushrooms, 

149 
a  la  poulette,  149 
to  prepare,  146 
roasted,  150 
"  saute,  148 

tripe,  fried,  162 

"     a  la  poulette,  162 
"     to  prepare,  162 
"     saute,  162 
blanquette  de,  140 
Veau,  en  caisses,  144 

cervelle  de,  beignets  de,  156 
"         "    au  beurre  noir,  157 
"         "    f  rites,  156 
"         "    a  la  poulette,  156 
"         "    sautees  a  la  Mila- 
naise,  157 
cceur  de,  farci,  163 
cotelettes  sautees,  139 

"        a     la     Mila- 
naise,  139 
creme  de,  141 
croquettes  de,  139 
fricandeau,  134 

"  a.  l'oseille,  135 

"  "  Soubise,  135 

foie  de,  braise,  158 
"     "  grille,  161 
"     "  roti,  159 
"     "  saute,  160 
V     "      "      aux     cornichons, 
160 


Veau,  galantine  de,  140 
en  gelee,  145 
jarret,  pane,  136 
longe,  rotie,  133 
mayonnaise  de,  335 
noix,braisees  a  la  jardiniere,  137 
"     panees,  136 
"     sautees,  138 
"  "  a   la    Maryland, 

137 
aux  olives,  143 
pain  de,  143 

ratatouille  a  la  Creole,  142 
ris  de,  beignets  de,  147 
"     "    aux  champignons,  149 
"    "en  casseroles,  151 
"     "    croquettes  de,  151 
"     "    grilles,  150 
"     "    au  kari,  150 
"     "    panes,  146 
"     "    piques  et  braises,  147 
"     "    a  la  poulette,  149 
"     "    rotis,  150 
"     "    sautes,  148 
rognons,  163 
rouelle,  braisee,  134 

"  "        sauce    Soubise, 

134 
rouelle,  farcie,  133 
tete  de,  fromage  de,  154 
'     au  gratin,  153 
'      "  naturel,  153 
'     a  la  terrapin,  155 
'     aux  tomates,  154 
tripe  frite,  162 
a  la  poulette,  162 
saute,  162 
Vegetable,  press  (note),  532 

"  soup,  36 

Vegetables,  artichokes,  French  globe, 
312 
"  Jerusalem,  310 

"  Jerusalem, 

baked,  311 
"  Jerusalem, 

braised,  311 
"  Jerusalem, 

chips,  311 
"  Jerusalem, 

au  gratin,  311 
"  Jerusalem, 

puree,  311 
"  asparagus,  to  boil,  287 

"  tips,    stewed, 

288 
"  beans,  Boston  baked,  307 

"       Creole  and  bacon. 


573 


Vegetables,  beans,  lima,  306 

"  "        red,  puree  of,  306 

"  "        string,  305 

"  beets,  318 

"  beet-tops,  304 

"  broccoli,  292 

"  cabbage,    and    celery 

stewed,  293 
"  summer,  292 

"  stewed,  293 

"  "  stuffed,  231 

"  "  "       red, 232 

"  "  winter,  292 

canned,  294 
carrots,  316 

"         caramel,  318 
"  "         fricasseed,  317 

"  "         Lyonnaise,  317 

"  "         sauted,  317 

cauliflower,  291 

"  augratin,2gx 

"  tomato  sauce, 

292 
celeriac,  310 
celery,  fritters,  310 
"  "       au  jus,  309 

"       stewed,  310 
chestnuts,  puree  of,  308 
chickory,  puree  of,  304 
corn,  baked,  296 
"     to  boil,  296 
"     fritters,  297 
"     oysters,  296 
"     pudding,  as  a,  295 
"  cucumbers,  dressed,  301 

"  fried,  300 

"  "  fritters,  302 

"  a    la     maitre 

d 'hotel,  301 
"  "  a  la  poulette, 

301 
' '  ragout  of,  and 

onions,  302 
"  stewed,  299 

"  "  stuffed,  300 

dandelions,  304 
egg-plant,  baked,  297 
"  "  fried,  298 

"  "  stuffed,  298 

"  endives,  puree  of,  304 

"  kale,  304 

lentils,  puree  of,  307 
"       saute,  308 
"  lettuce,  au  jus,  305 

"  "       puree  of,  305 

lima  beans,  306 
"  mushrooms,  baked,  286 


Vegetables,  mushrooms,   a   la   borde- 
laise,  286 
"  broiled,  284 

"  canned,  stew- 

ed, 285 
fried,  284 
"  "  remarks,  283 

"  "  scalloped, 

287 
"  stewed    with 

cream,  285 
"  stewed  plain, 

285 
okra,  314 
"      stewed,  314 
"      and  tomatoes  stew- 
ed, 314 
"  onions,  baked,  313 

"  "        to  boil,  312 

"  "        cream  sauce,  312 

"  "        glazed,  313 

"  "        Spanish,  314 

"  oyster-plant,  315 

"  "  cream  sauce. 

315 
"  "  fried,  316 

"  "  fritters,  316 

"  "  au    gratin, 

316 
"  "  mock      oys- 

ters, 316 
"  saute,  315 

"  parsnips,  to  boil,  318 

"  "  fried,  320 

"  "  "      balls,  320 

"  "  fritters,  319 

"  "  mashed,  320 

"  "  saute,  319 

"  "  stewed,     cream 

sauce,  319 
"  peas,  to  boil,  289 

"  "       green,  289 

"  "  "       stewed,  289 

"  "       puree  of,  290 

"  "  "       "    dried,  307 

"  peppers,  stuffed,  295 

"  potato  balls,  270 

"  "       chips,  275 

"  "       croquettes,  270 

"  "       hash,  cream,  274 

"  "         "       fried,  269 

"  "       puff,  269 

"  "       snow,  267 

"  "       souffle,  271 

"  potatoes,  baked,  267 

"  "         to  boil,  266 

11  <<  (<     <i    new>  267 


INI>EX. 


579 


Vegetables,  potatoes,  with  boiled  fish, 

"  "  a  la  bourgeoise, 

275 
"  "         a     la      Braban- 

conne,  271 
"  "         cold  boiled,  268 

"  "         a  la  Delmonico, 

273 
"  "         a  la  diable,  273 

"  "  "    duchesse, 

274 
"  "         farcied,  272 

"  "         a  la   Francaise, 

277 
"  "         fricasseed,  274 

"  "         a      la      Hollan- 

daise,  275 
"  "  a.    la     julienne, 

276 
"  "         Lyonnaise,  268 

"  "         mashed,  267 

"  "         New      Orleans, 

270 
"  "         a  la  Parisienne, 

276 
"  "         Philadelphia, 

273 
"  "         roast,  with  meat, 

268 
"  "         saute,  268 

"  "         stewed,  272 

"  red  beans,  puree  of,  306 

"  remarks,  265 

"  rice,  boiled,  323 

"  "     border,  322 

"  "     creole  boiled,  323 

"  samp,  309 

"  "       fried,  309 

"  to  soften  water  for,  537 

"  sorrel,  puree  of,  304 

"  spinach,  a  la  creme,  303 

"        au  jus,  302 
"  "        pie-plant,  303 

"  sprouts,  Brussels,  293 

"  sprue  and  eggs,  288 

"  squash,  summer,  294 

"        Turk's  head,  294 
"  string-beans,  305 

"  sweet  potatoes,  baked,  277 

"  "  "        boiled,  278 

"  "        caramel, 

277 
"        fried,  277 
"  "     puree  baked, 

278 
"  "  "    puree  tomato 

to  sauce,  277 


Vegetables,    sweet  potatoes,    roasted 
with  meat,  278 
Time-Table  for,  264 
"  tomato,  rice,  282 

"  "        souffle,  282 

"  tomatoes,  baked,  279 

"  "         fried,  279 

"         with  macaroni, 

283 
"        roasted    with 
beef,  etc.,  280 
"  "         scalloped,  281 

"         stewed,  281 

stuffed     with 
mushrooms, 
282 
"  "        stuffed  a.  la  reine, 

280 
stuffed  with  to- 
mato sauce,  280 
"  turnips,  baked  with  mut- 

ton, 321 
"        to  boil,  320 
"        browned,  322 
"        cream    sauce   for 
boiled  mutton, 
321 
"        glazed,  321 
"         au  gratin,  322 
"  "  jus,  321 

"         mashed,  321 
tumip-tops,  304 
Veloutee,  creme,  460 
"        sauce,  251 
Velvet  cakes  for  tea,  393 
"      cream,  460 
"      sauce  (pudding),  450 
Venison   in  a  chafing  dish,  222 
"        haunch  of,  No.  I.,  220 
"  "       "    No.  II.,  221 

"        note,  534 
"         pasty,  222 
"        saddle  of,  220 
"        steak,  broiled  No.  I.,  221 
"  "  "        No.  II.,  221 

"         stew,  222 
Vermicelli  soup,  11 
Vinaigre  aromatique,  521 
"        a  l'estragon,  520 
"        framboise,  527 
Vinaigrette,  sauce,  258 
Vin  chaud,  526 
Vinegar,  pepper,  520 
"       raspberry,  527 
"       spiced,  521 
"       tarragon,  520 
Virginia  batter-cake,  378 
"      corn-cakes,  385 


58o 


INDEX. 


Vitement  fait,  41 1 

Volaille,  chaud-froid  de,  193 

croquettes  de,  No.  I.,  192 
"  "    No.  II.,  193 

mayonnaise  de,  334 
pain  de,  191 
Volailles,  foies  de,  sautes,  181 
Vol-au-vent,  230 

"  bourgeois,  226 


WAFFLES,  plain,  383 
rice,  383 
Waffles,  without  yeast  or  soda,  383 
Walnut  cake,  409 

"      (black)  candy,  514 
"      wafers,  412 
Wash  for  cleaning  gloves,  547 
Washing,  fluid,  547 
Washington  pie,  416 
Water  of  boiled  potatoes,  537 
"      rice,  530 

"      to  soften,  for  vegetables,  537 
"      toast,  530 
Water-cress,  327 
Water-ice,  lemon  (see  ices),  500 
Watermelon  rind,  preserved,  507 
Wedding  cake,  394 
Welsh  rare-bit,  340 

"        to  serve,  544 
Westphalra  croquettes,  168 


Whip,  apple,  474 

"      tapioca,  474 
Whipped  cream,  457 

"      sauce  (pudding),  450 
White,  maigre  soup,  34 

"      mountain  cake  (Phila.),  403 
"      roux,  244 
"      sauce,  250 
"      soup,  18 
Whitebait,  48 

"  omelet,  370 

White-bean  soup,  33 
Wild  duck,  jelly  sauce,  207 

"        "      salmi  with  olives,  206 
"        "      205 
Wine   cake,  408 
"      currant,  527 
"      icing,  422 
"     jelly,  465 
"      sauce  (pudding),  453 
Winter  okra  soup,  35 
Woodcock,  roasted  No.  I.,  208 
"       No.  II.,  208 
"  saute,  207 

"  Scotch,  343 

YARMOUTH  bloaters,  65 
Yeast,  373 
Yeast,  (note),  541 
Yorkshire  pudding,  93,  392 


