TX715 
.S755 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 

DODQEaHHQH?^ 


^<=u. 


•   N  ©  A  V 


•"     A*^      "'HUT*0      «?*%       -1 


*b^   ;<anK    *o*    :/0H^    w    •v'snar-  ^ 


^      - 


*    °o 


o       *.„,•     .0" 
*       4?       <£,      ** 


V 


4^X*  */.-- v*-yu°- 


^.,*»  :. 


*bV" 


++# 


A°« 


"b? 


*Pv. 


•       »  *^ 


"^/  -jsMfe  \f  -m£-  \S  -'A-  x 


...»    .6V  *o,     '?. »•     A 


**v\ 


^  \ 


•  "  •  <•         "*k  (V         •  *  *  •  ♦       ^O  **         a  »  "  •  •         <S> 


.4°* 


o*  *•„ 


*    if 


«]fflD 


T"  The  ^  ' 

^ 0FAMPh 

\^°   , 

(\ENERALT|cPlitTlents0 

of  t^  ^SnGErQepartmenT 

Mill  IliJlJIl  lfA\E'li:|iIIl¥lf.. 


Besidence  of  Ira  Brown,  Esq.,  at  Norwood  Park. 


-*¥• 


$100 


•4*- 


Will  Buy  a  Beautiful  Lot  at  Norwood  Park, 

80  feet  above  Lake  and  6  miles  from  Chicago.  Cheapest  lots  in  market.  Good 
Sidewalks,  Store,  Hotel,  Churches,  Schools,  and  the  beautiful  growth  of 
trees  makes  the  whole  village  one  entire  park.  Terms:  $16  down  and  $5 
monthly.  Cheap  railroad  fare,  with  30  trains  a  day.  Will  furnish  lumber  to 
build  without  money  down.  Lots  shown  free  any  pleasant  day.  Abstract 
free.    These  prices  will  only  last  a  few  days. 

I  also  have  lots  in  Glencoe  at  the  same  price  and  terms. 


142  La  Salle  Street,  Room  4, 


ic~4 


The  Great  Rock  Island 


COOK  BOOK 


comprising  a 

Carefully  Compiled  Selection  of  the  Most  Useful  Recipes 

and  Other   Valuable  Information  in  the 

Culinary   Art. 

Many  famous  Cooks  and  Caterers,  havmg  contributed  their  favorite  formulae, 
which  are  now  given  to  the  public  for  the  first  time. 


^TvT 


WITH    THE     GREATEST     RESPECT     THIS     BOOK    IS 

Sleiricatelr  to  the  lUomen  of  America, 

By  the  General  Ticket  and  Passenger  Department  of  the  Chicago, 
Rock  Island  &  Pacific  Railway. 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress  in  the  year  iSS4i 

By  B  .  F.  B  A  B  C  O  C  K  , 

In  the  office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


CHICAGO: 

The  J.  M.  W.  Jones  Stationery  and  Printing  Company* 

1884. 


NO  POISON  IN  THE  PASTRY 

DR.  PRICE'SV 


SPECIAL  FL 


ARE   USED. 

Vanillay  Lemon,  Orange,  Flavor  Cakes,  Creams,  Pud- 
dings, as  delicious  and  natural  as  the  fruit 
from  which  they  are  made. 

For  Strength,  Purity  and  True  Fruit  Flavor  They  Stand  Alone. 


^Light  Healthy  Breads 

USE 

ID  13.    ZPISICZETS 

Lupulin  Yeast  Gems 

THE  BEST  DRY  HOP  YEAST  IN  THE  WORLD. 

Bread  raised  by  this  yeast  it  light,  white  and  wholesome, 
like  our  Grandmother's  delicious  bread. 

Ask  your  Grocer  for  Dr.  Price's  Lupulin  Yeast  Gems. 

Lupulin  is  the  active  principle  of  hops. 


NOTICE.— Dr.   Price's  Cook    Book,   full  of  good  things  for  everybody, 
Kent  by  mail,  free  of  charge,  by  addressing 


DR.  V.  C.  PRICE,  Chicago. 


The  Hartford  Sewing  Macliine 

The  most  lavishly  decorated;  the  largest  under 
arm;  positive  or  spring  take-up  as  desired;  free 
from  vibration. 

OUR  MOTTO  FOR  FIFTEEN  YEARS, 

Simple,  Capable,  Durable. 

AGENTS  WANTED,  TERRITORY  PROTECTED. 

Send  for  Descriptive  Circulars,  Terms,  etc. 


Ball  Bearing  Balance  Wheel,  Knife-Edge 
Treadle  Bearing,  Self-Setting  Needle,  Patent 
Belt  Replaeer,  A  Galaxy  of  New  Patents, 
Artistic  Designs  of  Wood  Work. 

GENERAL  WESTERN  OFFICE, 

&5eed  Sewing  (Qaghine  (So. 

179  MICHIGAN  AVENUE  (LELAND  HOTEL), 
WM.  M.  DURELL,  Manager, 

(shigago,  III. 


Office  of  the  New  Gas  Company, 

94  DEARBORN   STREET. 


THE  CONSUMERS 

G-as  Fnel^Liglit  Co. 


OF  CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS, 

Solicit    the    patronage   of    the    Public,   and   hope  by  fair 
dealing  and  courteous  treatment  to  obtain  it.  v 

They  are  offering  their  beautiful  Gas,  which  is  free  from 
sulphur  compounds  and  other  impurities,  and  which  will 
not  smoke  the  ceilings,  at 

$  1.25  Per  1,000  Cubic  Feet  net 

They  make  no  charge  for  services  or  setting  meters. 

They  require  no  deposits. 

They  will  make  contracts  for  five  years  at  the  above 
price  per  i,ooo. 

They  believe  in  giving  a  good  Gas  at  a  low  price. 

The  public,  in  sustaining  them,  are  pro- 
tecting their  own  interests. 


INTRODUCTION. 


"  In  compelling  man  to  eat,  that  he  may  live, 
Nature  gives  appetite  to  invite  and  pleasure  to  reward  him." — Brilliat-Savarin. 

EPICURUS,  the  Greek  philosopher,  taught  that  "the  great  end 
and  aim  of  life  was  to  eat,"  which  doctrine  was  so  far  accepted 
by  the  luxurious  Romans  at  a  later  period,  as  to  call  forth  the 
denunciations  of  Cicero  in  the  Senate,  warning  them  that  it  would  lead 
to  the  effeminacy  of  the  nation.  Whether  or  not  the  fall  of  the  great 
Roman  Empire  can  be  attributed  to  the  appetites  of  its  citizens,  it  is 
unquestioned  that  they  certainly  loved  to  eat,  as  instance  the  fabulous 
sums  expended  at  their  banquets,  where  peacocks'  tongues,  humming- 
birds on  toast,  and  other  equally  expensive  dainties  were  consumed  and 
fortunes  lavished.  The  pleasures  of  the  table  since  that  time  have  been 
the  first  indulgence  of  all  civilized  nations. 

To  prepare  food  in  the  best  and  most  wholesome  manner  with 
economy,  celerity  and  taste,  is  a  science  in  which  the  French  especially 
excel;  being  the  result  of  the  collective  ingenuity  and  skill  of  persons, 
who,  as  chefs,  have  given  it  the  study  of  their  lives.  It  may  be  said  that 
they  literally  waste  nothing,  as  some  method  is  provided  for  utilizing 
much  that  in  an  American  kitchen,  either  through  ignorance  or  care- 
lessness, is  destroyed. 

The  words  of  the  late  Prof.  Blot,  founder  of  the  New  York  Cooking 
Academy,  in  his  advice  to  cooks,  were:  "  Be  careful,  clean  and  punc- 
tual. Make  use  of  everything  good.  Waste  nothing,  however  little  it 
may  be.     Have  no  prejudices/' 

In  presenting  this  little  work  to  the  housewives  of  America,  its  pro- 
jectors are  not  possessed  with  the  idea  that  the  subject  of  cookery  has 
not  already  received  great  attention;  indeed,  as  the  old  adage  teaches, 
"  too  many  cooks  spoil  the  broth,"  it  maybe  said  that  there  are  already 
too  many;  but  it  is  thought  that  this  humble  tribute  to  culinary  litera- 
ture will,  by  its  arrangement  and  careful  compilation,  add  something  of 
value  to  the  subject. 

In  selecting  the  recipes,  under  the  different  headings  and  sub- 
divisions, the  aim  has  been  to  give  only  those  which  have  been  prac- 
tically tested,  derived  from  the  best  authorities,  or  from  cooks  skilled 
in  the  profession.  Many  have  also  been  obtained  through  the  courtesy 
of  friends  who  have  contributed  favorite  recipes,  and  are  now  for  the 
first  time  published.  Credit  has  been  given,  however,  only  when  de- 
rived from  public  source*. 


The  object  being  to  adapt  it  more  to  the  household,  it  has  not  been 
considered  as  within  its  province  to  cater  to  the  epicure,  hence  the  more 
elaborate,  highly  seasoned,  or  costly  dishes,  with  few  exceptions,  have 
been  omitted. 

As  our  efforts  have  been  directed  to  serve  the  new  as  well  as  the 
more  mature  housekeeper,  and  with  the  view  to  economy  in  the  pur- 
chase of  the  multifarious  articles  comprising  "  household  supplies,"  there 
are  presented  notes  y  more  or  less  extended,  preceding  the  recipes  of 
each  division,  giving,  concisely  as  possible,  information  relating  to  the 
selection  or  keeping  of  provisions,  regarding  adulterations,  or  general 
directions  as  to  modes.  In  many  cases,  also,  the  basis  for  forming  a 
great  number  of  dishes  or  productions  have  been  given,  instead  of 
numerous  distinct  recipes,  leaving  it  to  the  taste  or  ingenuity  of  the 
intelligent  housewife  to  produce  those — by  the  variation  of  ingredients 
or  process — best  suited  to  the  season,  the  purse  or  occasion.  With  the 
same  view,  also,  several  recipes  have  in  many  cases  been  given  for  the 
same  dish. 

Believing  the  work  would  prove  of  more  value  thereby,  greater 
attention  has  been  bestowed  on  substantiate.  Much  less  room  has  been 
allotted  to  cake,  pastry,  pickles,  preserves,  etc.,  than  to  meats,  fish, 
poultry  or  vegetables  ;  while  to  bread-making  and  its  concomitants 
considerable  space  has  been  afforded. 

It  is  thought  that  the  plan  of  consecutively  numbering  the  recipes 
will  prove  convenient,  as  well  as  the  classified  index  at  the  back  of  the 
book. 

Should  even  our  efforts  so  far  have  succeeded  as  to  aid  the  women 
of  our  country  in  preparing  more  acceptable  dishes,  or  at  less  expendi- 
ture, and  thus  adding  to  their  material  wealth,  our  task  will  be  but 
imperfectly  fulfilled  without  at  the  same  time  reminding  them  as  well 
as  the  traveling  public  that 

The  Great  Rock  Island  Route 

WTH  ITS  SUPERB  EQUIPMENT  OP 

ELEGANT  COACHES,  PALATIAL  SLEEPING, 

Liuxu^iANm  Dining  and  Sasy  I^eglining-@hai^  ©ai^s, 

Its  Safety  Appliances!  Smooth  Steel  Tracks  and  Reliable  Connections, 

Is  preeminently  the  best,  not  only  for  all  points  located  upon,  but  beyond  it. 


^ThE  Great  Medical  WnnriEiy^ 


Hamlin's  Wizard  Oil, 

FOR  INTERNAL  AND  EXTERNAL  USE. 


The  great  reputation  which  this  remedy  has  attained,  must  be  attributed 
solely  to  its  real  value.  A  worthless  medicine,  when  stimulated  by  adver- 
tising, will  sell  for  a  time ;  bur,  as  soon  as  allowed  to  depend  upon  solid  merit, 
it  drops  out  f  the  market  entirely.  This  is  not  the  case  with  Hamlin's 
Wizard  Oil.  When  once  introduced  into  any  section  of  country,  it  never 
dies  oat.  Its  sale  is  constantly  increasing,  and  at  the  present  time  has 
assumed  such  proportions  as  to  justify  us  in  the  assertion  that  it  has  never 
been  equaled  by  any  other  remedy. 

In  almost  every  city,  town,  or  village,  from  the  Atlantic  Ocean  to  the  Pa- 
cific, and  from  the  State  of  Maine  to  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  Hamlin's  Wizard 
Oil  is  known  and  appreciated,  and  in  thousands  of  families  has  become  a 
household  necessity.  The  large  number  of  remarkable  cures  which  have 
been  performed  through  the  instrumentality  of  this  great  remedy,  are  unparal- 
leled in  the  history  of  medicine.  Hundreds  of  supposed  cripples  for  life,  and 
sufferers  who  have  languished  upon  beds  of  sickness,  receiving  no  aid  from 
physicians,  testify  to  its  wonderful  healing  properties. 

It  not  only  allays  inflammation,  and  stops  the  most  excruciating  pains, 
but  it  performs  radical  and  permanent  cures.  It  is  safe  and  sure,  does  its 
work  quickly  and  effectually,  and  is  just  the  article  needed  in  every  family. 

^  ajsv    (^  T?  "R  Fv  ^ 

Rheumatism  in  from  one  to  six  days;  Neuralgic  Pains  in  ten  minutes;  Head- 
ache or  Earache  in  ten  minutes;  Toothache  in  one  minute;  Sore  Throat  in 
three  hours;  Diphtheria  in  twelve  hours ;  Fever  and  Ague  in  one  day;  Pain 
in  the  Back  or  Side  in  thirty  minutes;  Contracted  Cords  and  Muscles,  and  all 
Painful  Swellings  and  Tumors,  Sprains,  Bruises,  Cuts,  Burns  and  Scalds,  Ulcers, 
Fever  Sores,  Cramp-Colic,  Diarrhoea  and  Cholera  Morbus,  Dyspepsia,  Inflam- 
mation of  the  Kidneys,  Catarrh  in  the  Head,  Deafness,  Stiff  and  Enlarged 
Joints,  and  all  Diseases  of  an  Inflammatory  Nature. 

Unequaled    for    Burns    and  Scalds. 

PREPARED  AT  THE  LABORATORY  OF 

HAMLINS   WIZARD  OIL  CO.,  CHICAGO,  ILL 

PRICE,  50  CENTS  AND  $1.00  PER  BOTTLE. 

FOR    SALE    BY    ALL    DRUGGISTS. 


FERMENTUM 

THE  ONLY  RELIABLE 

COMPRESSED  YEAST 

Is  produced  from  No.  1  Grain,  and  Manufactured 
only  by  the 

RlVERDALE  DlST.  COMPANY 


OFFICE  AND  WAREHOUSE: 

264  to  270  Kinzie  Street, 
CHICAGO,   ILLS. 

A.  JUNKER,  -  -  -  General  Agent. 


To  produce  the  lightest  and  best  BREAD,  BISCUIT,  or  ROLLS,  use 
"FERMENTUM"   and  the  following-  RECIPES: 

WHEAT  BREAD— ( for  4  Loaves )— Thoroughly  dissolve  a  Cake  of  Fermentum  in  a  pint 
of  lukewarm  water  ;  stir  in  sifted  flour  until  it  forms  a  thick  batter  as  for  Cakes ;  set  in  a 
warm  place  until  it  rises  and  begins  to  settle ;  than  add  to  this  spouge  a  quart  of  lukewarm 
water,  a  tablespoon  salt,  two  of  sugar,  the  same  of  butter,  with  sifted  flour  to  make  a  dough 
as  soft  as  can  be  handled,  and  knead  it  well.  Set  it  to  rise  and  when  thoroughly  light  knead 
it  thoroughly  again,  form  into  loaves  and  place  in  greased  pans  for  final  rising.  When  suffi- 
ciently light,  hike  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.  When  baked,  cool  the  loaves  by  standing  them 
on  ends,  leaning  against  each  other,  in  a  cool  place. 

BISCUITS  OR  ROLLS.— Use  a  half  cake  of  Fermentum  to  each  quart  of  flour;  dissolve 
it  thoroughly ;  add  the  flour  and  mould  at  once ;  set  in  a  warm  place  and  bake  in  a  brisk 
oven  as  soon  as  light. 

Ask  your  Grocer  for  FERMENTUM,  and  accept  no  other  Yeast  or  Raising-  Com- 
pound whatever.      FOR  SALE  EVERYWHERE. 


BREAD. 


1.  Stock  Yeast — Boil  three  ounces  hops  in  three  quarts  water 
for  half  an  hour.  Put  a  handful  of  dry  sifted  flour  into  a  stone  jar, 
and  scald  it  with  enough  of  the  hop  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste  and  set 
aside.  Let  the  rest  of  the  hop  water  boil  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
strain  it  on  the  paste  without  stirring,  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When 
blood-warm  add  a  small  handful  of  malt,  mix  well;  tie  a  cotton  cloth 
over  it  and  let  it  stand  untouched  in  a  moderately  cool  place,  for  forty- 
eight  hours;  then  bottle,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  cellar. 

2.  Stock  Yeast — On  Monday  morning  boil  one  pint  hops  in 
two  gallons  water  for  half  an  hour,  strain  into  a  crock  and  let  it 
become  lukewarm,  add  two  even  teaspoons  salt  and  half  a  pint  best 
brown  sugar,  mix  half  a  pint  flour  smooth  with  some  of  the  liquor,  and 
stir  all  well  together.  On  Wednesday  add  three  pounds  boiled  and 
mashed  potatoes,  stir  well,  and  let  stand  until  Thursday,  then  strain  and 
put  in  jugs,  but  for  the  first  day  or  two  leave  the  corks  loose.  Stir  the 
yeast  occasionally  while  making  and  keep  near  the  fire.  It  should  be 
made  two  weeks  before  using,  and  will  be  improved  by  age.  Keep  it  in 
a  cool  place,  and  shake  the  jug  before  pouring  from  it — but  with  the  cork 
out — holding  the  palm  of  the  hand  over  the  mouth. 

3.  Potato  Yeast— Peel  and  boil  four  or  five  large  potatoes, 
mash  them  fine,  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,. a  pinch  each  of  sugar  and 
salt,  and  when  blood-warm  add  one  and  a  half  gills  of  the  stock  yeast, 
and  let  it  ferment  six  hours,  when  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

4.  Potato  Yeast — Take  as  many  hops  as  can  be  grasped  in 
the  hand  twice,  put  half  a  gallon  water  over  them  in  a  new  coffee  pot 
kept  for  that  purpose,  boil  slowly  for  one  hour.  Do  not  tie  them  in  a 
cloth  to  boil,  as  the  above  is  a  superior  method.  Pare  and  grate  half 
a  dozen  large  potatoes  into  a  two-gallon  stone  crock,  add  a  half  cup 
sugar  and  a  tablespoon  each  of  salt  and  ginger,  pour  over  this  a  half 
gallon  of  the  boiling  hop  water,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  milk-warm 
add  one  cup  good  lively  yeast,  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  rises,  and 
then  remove  to  the  cellar  or  some  cool  place.  The  hop  water  must  be 
added  to  the  potatoes  immediately,  or  they  will  darken  and  discolor 
the  yeast.  To  prevent  them  from  darkening,  the  potatoes  may  be 
grated  into  a  pan  half  filled  with  cold  water,  as  they  will  sink  to  the 
bottom ;  when  done  grating,  pour  off  the  water  and  add  the  boiling 
hop  water.  This  is  a  valuable  recipe,  and  the  manner  of  boiling  the 
hop  water  is  especially  recommended. 

5.  Potato  Yeast  without  Hops — Take  four  good-sized 
potatoes,  peeled,  boiled  and  mashed,  four  tablespoons  white  sugar,  one 
of  ginger,  one  of  salt,  and  two  cups  flour  ;   pour  over  this  a  pint  of 


IO 

boiling  water,  and  beat  until  all  the  lumps  disappear.  After  it  has 
cooled  sufficiently  add  to  it  one  cup  good  yeast,  and  set  away  to  rise; 
when  it  has  risen  put  in  a  glass  or  stone  jar,  cover  and  set  it  away  in  a 
cool  place  for  use. 

6.  Hop  Yeast — Boil  a  large  handful  of  hops  in  two  quarts 
water  for  twenty  minutes;  strain  one  half  of  it  on  three  pints  of  sifted 
flour,  and  when  the  other  half  is  cool,  mix  slowly  with  the  paste;  stir 
in  half  a  pint  of  fresh,  strong  brewers'  yeast,  or  use  yeast  of  a  previous 
making;  bottle  and  cork  loosely,  and  let  it  ferment  until  it  ceases  to 
work;  next  day  cork  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  cellar.  Make  fresh  every 
week. 

7.  Yeast  Cake — Boil  half  a  pound  of  hops  in  one  gallon  water 
until  reduced  to  two  quarts;  strain  it,  mix  in  wheat  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  fresh,  strong  yeast.  When 
fermented,  work  with  Indian  meal  to  a  stiff  dough.  Cover  and  set  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light,  roll  into  a  sheet  an  inch  thick,  and 
cut  into  small  cakes,  three  inches  across,  spread  them  on  a  platter,  and 
dry  in  a  cool  shade.  Turn  them  several  times  a  day,  and  when  dry, 
put  them  in  paper  bags,  and  set  in  a  closely  covered  box,  and  keep 
cool  in  a  perfectly  dry  place.     Use  one  cake  for  four  quarts  flour. 

8.  To  Cool  Bread — Bread  should  be  always  carefully  cooled 
before  being  put  away,  especially  if  kept  in  a  tight  box  or  crock,  and 
for  this  purpose  a  board  should  be  kept- — oaken  being  the  best,  as  being 
solid  and  odorless — cover  with  a  white  flannel  cloth,  and  over  this 
spread  a  fresh  linen  bread  cloth.  Place  the  bread  upon  this,  crust- 
side  up,  and  cover  with  some  thin  material  to  keep  off  the  flies.  Place 
in  a  cool  airy  place.  Bread  cooled  in  this  manner  will  have  a  fine  soft 
crust,  and  remain  light  and  wholesome. 

9.  Hop  Yeast  Bread — One  tea  cup  yeast,  three  pints  warm 
water;  make  a  thin  sponge  at  tea  time,  cover  and  let  it  remain  two 
hours,  or  until  very  light.  By  adding  water  to  the  flour  first,  and  hav- 
ing the  sponge  quite  warm,  it  is  never  necessary  to  put  it  over  hot  water 
or  in  an  oven  to  make  it  rise.  Knead  into  a  loaf  before  going  to  bed;  in 
the  morning  mold  into  three  loaves,  spread  a  little  lard  between  as  they 
are  put  in  the  pan.  When  light,  bake  one  hour,  having  the  oven  quite 
hot  when  the  bread  is  put  in,  and  very  moderate  when  it  is  done.  Bread 
made  in  this  manner  is  never  sour  or  heavy. 

Biscuit  of  same  Sponge — To  have  fine,  light  biscuit,  add  to  a  por- 
tion pi  the  sponge  for  bread  shortening  at  night,  and  in  the  morning 
make  into  biscuit,  and  bake  for  breakfast. 

10.  Twice-Raised  Bread — Measure  out  four  quarts  of  sifted 
flour,  take  out  a  pint  in  a  cup  and  place  the  balance  in  a  bread-pan  ; 
make  a  hole  in  the  heap  of  flour,  into  which  turn  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  one  of  salt  and  one  cup  of  yeast,  previously  mixed  with  the  pint 
of  flour,  then  mix  in  one  pint  of  milk  which  has  been  made  blood  warm 
by  adding  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  beat  well  with  a  strong  spoon,  add 
one  tablespoon  lard,  knead  for  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  and  let  it  rise 


ft 

over  night;  in  the  morning  knead  again  and  make  into  loaves;  let  them 
raise  one  hour  and  bake  fifty  minutes. 

Water  may  be  used  instead  of  the  pint  of  milk,  in  which  case  use 
twice  as  much  lard. 

11.  Boston  Brown  Bread — One  pint  each  of  rye  or  Graham 
and  Indian  meal,  one  cup  molasses,  three-fourths  cup  sour  milk,  one 
and  a  half  teaspoo.ns  soda,  one  and  a  half  pints  cold  water;  put  on 
stove  over  cold  water,  which  gradually  bring  to  a  boil;  steam  for  four 
hours  and  place  in  the  oven  to  brown  over.  All  steam-cooked  breads 
are  the  better  for  the  above  method  of  steaming. 

12.  Boston  Brown  Bread  —  Two  cups  white  flour,  two  of 
Graham  flour,  one  cup  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, three  and  a  half  cups  milk,  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  and  steam 
for  five  hours. 

13.  Corn  Bread  (Of  the  St.  Charles  Hotel,  New  Orleans)— Beat 
two  eggs  very  light ;  mix  with  them  one  pint  either  sour  or  butter- 
milk, and  one  pint  yellow  sifted  Indian  meal.  Melt  one  tablespoon  of 
butter  with  one  teaspoon  of  salt  and  add  to  the  mixture.  Dissolve 
one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  small  portion  of  the  milk  and  add  the  last  thing. 
Beat  all  up  very  hard  and  bake  in  a  pan  in  a  brick  oven  for  about  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

14.  Corn  Bread — One  pint  corn  meal,  one-half  teaspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  egg^  and  milk 
enough  to  form  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The  tins  in  which 
you  bake  should  be  hot  and  well  greased  before  putting  in  the  batter. 

15.  Corn  Bread — One  pint  corn  meal,  sifted;  one  pint  wheat 
flour,  one  pint  sour  milk,  two  eggs  beaten  lightly,  half  a  cup  sugar,  a 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg;  add  lastly  one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little 
milk;  add  to  the  beaten  egg  the  milk  and  meal  alternacely,  then  the 
butter  and  sugar.  If  sweet  milk. is  used,  add  one  teaspoon  cream- 
tartar.     Bake  for  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

16.  Steamed  Corn  Bread — Two  cups  each  of  Indian  meal, 
Graham  flour  and  sour  milk,  two-thirds  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon 
soda.     Mix  well  and  steam  two  hours  and  a  half. 

17.  Boston  Corn  Bread — One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  of  sour 
milk,  two-thirds  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  wheat  flour,  four  of  corn  meal 
and  two  teaspoons  soda  ;  steam  for  three  hours,  and  brown  a  few 
minutes  in  the  oven. 

18.  Graham  Bread — Use  a  little  over  a  quart  of  warm  water, 
one-half  cup  brown  sugar  or  molasses,  one-fourth  cup  hop  yeast,  and 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  salt;  thicken  the  water  with  unbolted  flour  to 
a  thin  batter;  add  sugar,  salt  and  yeast,  and  stir  in  more  flour  until 
quite  stiff.  In  the  morning  add  a  small  teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter  as  stiff  as  can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon;  put  it  into  pans, 
and  let  rise  again;  then  bake  in  an  even  hot  oven,  not  too  hot  at  first; 
keep  warm  when  rising;  smooth  over  each  loaf  with  a  knife  or  spoon 
dipped  in  hot  water. 


12 

19.  Rye  and  Indian  Bread— One  quart  rye  meal  or  rye  flour, 
two  quarts  Indian  meal,  scalded  (by  placing  in  a  pan  and  pouring  over 
it  just  enough  boiling  water  to  merely  wet  it,  but  not  enough  to  make  it 
into  a  batter,  stirring  constantly  with  a  spoon),  one-half  cup  molasses, 
two  teaspoons  salt,  one  of  soda,  one  tea  cup  yeast;  make  it  as  stiff  as 
can  be  stirred  with  a  spoon,  mixing  with  warm  water,  and  let  rise  all 
night;  then  put  it  in  a  large  pan,  smooth  the  top  with  the  hand  dipped 
in  cold  water;  let  it  stand  a  short  time,  and  bake  five  or  six  hours,  It 
put  in  the  oven  late  in  the  day,  let  it  remain  all  night. 

Graham  may  be  used  instead  of  rye,  and  baked  as  above. 

This  is  similar  to  the  "Rye  and  Injun  "  of  our  grandmother's  days, 
but  that  was  placed  in  a  kettle,  allowed  to  rise,  then  placed  in  a  covered 
iron  pan  upon  the  hearth  before  the  fire,  with  coals  heaped  upon  the 
lid,  to  bake  all  night. 

20.  Rye  Bread — Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  warm  water, 
one  tea-cup  yeast  thickened  with  rye  flour  ;  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise 
over  night.  Scald  one  pint  corn  meal  ;  when  cool  add  it  to  the  sponge. 
Add  rye  flour  until  thick  enough  to  knead,  but  knead  it  but  little  ;  let 
rise,  mould  into  loaves,  place  in  deep  pie-tins  or  small  square  pudding- 
pans,  let  it  rise,  and  bake  ;  or  thicken  the  sponge  with  rye  flour,  and 
proceed  as  above. 

21.  Rye  Bread — Make  a  sponge  as  for  wheat  bread,  let  it  rise 
over  night,  then  mix  it  up  with  rye  flour  (but  not  so  stiff  as  wheat 
bread),  and  bake. 

22.  Salt-Raised  Bread — The  leaven  for  this  bread  is  thus  pre- 
pared: Take  a  pint  of  warm  water  at  about  90  deg.  (if  only  a  little  too 
hot  you  will  not  succeed),  in  a  perfectly  clean  bowl,  and  stir  up  a  thick 
batter,  adding  but  a  teaspoon  of  salt;  beat  very  thoroughly — this  is 
important.  Set  it  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  to  secure  uniformity  of  tem- 
perature, and  in  from  two  to  four  hours  it  will  begin  to  rise.  The  rising 
is  much  more  sure  if  coarse  flour  ot  "  shorts  "  is  used  instead  of  fine 
flour. 

When  your  "  rising  "  is  nearly  light  enough,  take  a  pint  of  milk 
and  a  pint  of  boiling  water  (a  tablespoon  of  lime  water  added,  is  good, 
and  frequently  prevents  souring),  mix  the  sponge  in  the  bread-pan,  and 
when  cooled  to  about  milk-warm,  stir  in  the  rising.  The  sponge  thus 
made  will  be  light  in  two  to  four  hours  with  good  warmth.  The  dough 
requires  less  kneading  than  yeast-raised  dough. 

To  ascertain  the  temperature  of  the  water  in  preparing  the  rising, 
place  a  thermometer  in  for  a  minute  or  so. 

Some  object  to  this  bread  on  account  of  its  odor  when  rising;  the 
result  of  fermentation,  but  the  more  there  is  of  this  the  surer  you  will 
be  of  having  a  good  sweet  bread  when  baked. 

23.  Bread  Sponge  for  Winter  Use — Peel  and  boil  four  or 
five  medium-sized  potatoes  in  two  quarts  of  water  (which  will  boil  down 
to  about  one  quart  by  the  time  the  potatoes  are  cooked)  ;  when  done, 
take  out  and  press  through  a  colander,  or  mash  very  fine  in  the  crock 


*3 

in  which  the  sponge  is  made;  make  a  well  in  the  center,  into  which  put 
one  cup  of  flour,  and  pour  over  it  the  boiling  water  from  the  potatoes; 
stir  thoroughly,  and  when  cool  add  a  pint  of  tepid  water,  flour  enough  to 
make  a  thin  batter,  and  a  cup  of  yeast.  This  sponge  makes  very  moist 
bread. 

BREAKFAST  AND  TEA  CAKES. 

Note. — Soda,  Saleratus  (or  pearlash),  cream  of  tartar  and  baking 
powders  are  often  adulterated  with  terra  alba  (white  earth). 

Some  baking  powders  contain  alum,  and  such  are  to  be  avoided  as 
deleterious.  Use  only  those  of  known  merit,  such  as  are  manufactured 
by  well  known  and  reputable  Houses. 

24.  Graham  Gems — A  pint  of  sour  or  butter-milk,  one  teaspoon 
soda  and  a  little  salt ;  beat  all  well  together  and  add  one  egg,  a  tablespoon 
of  molasses,  and  Graham  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  mix  thor- 
oughly.    Bake  in  gem-pans  well  greased  and  quite  hot,  in  a  quick  oven. 

25.  Graham  Gems — Three  cups  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  brown  sugar,  one  of  melted  lard,  one 
beaten  egg;  to  the  egg  add  the  milk,  then  the  sugar  and  salt,  then  the 
Graham  flour  (with  the  soda  mixed  in),  together  with  the  lard;  make  a 
stiff  batter  so  it  will  drop,  not  pour  from  the  spoon.  Have  the  gem 
pans  very  hot,  fill  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

26.  Wheaten  Gems — Mix  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 
a  little  salt  into  a  pint  of  flour;  add  to  the  beaten  yelks  of  two  eggs 
one  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream,  a  piece  of  melted  butter  half  the  size  of 
an  egg,  the  flour  with  baking  powder  and  salt  mixed,  and  the  well 
beaten  whites  of  the  two  eggs.  Beat  well,  bake  immediately  in  gem 
pan  in  a  hot  oven,  take  out  quickly,  and  send  to  table  immediately. 

21.  Sweet  Milk  Gems — Beat  one  egg  well,  add  a  pint  of  new 
milk,  a  little  salt,  and  Graham  flour  until  it  will  drop  off  the  spoon 
nicely;  heat  and  butter  the  gem  pans  before  dropping  in  the  dough. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

28.  Indian  Gems — Mix  quickly  a  quart  of  Indian  meal  with 
sufficient  water  to  make  a  thick  batter;  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and 
stir  thoroughly.  Have  ready  your  gem  pans  well  greased  and  heated. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely  browned  on  top,  and  send  to  table 
hot. 

29.  Wheat  Muffins — Mix  one  pint  milk,'  two  eggs,  three  table- 
spoons yeast  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter;  let  rise  four  or  five  hours  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  in  a  hot  oven 
for  about  ten  minutes. 

30.  Graham  Muffins — Use  Graham  instead  of  wheat  flour,  as 
above,  and  add  two  tablespoons  molasses. 

31.  Corn  Muffins — One  quart  sifted  Indian  meal,  a  heaping 
teaspoon  butter,  one  quart  milk,  a  saltspoon  of  salt,  a  third  of  a  cuo 


14 

yeast,  a  tablespoon  of  molasses;  let  it  rise  for  four  or  five  hours  and 
bake  in  muffin  rings. 

32.  Puffet — Two  eggs,  well  beaten,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  a  piece 
of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg ;  beat  all  together  quite  thin  ;  add  one  pint 
sweet  milk.  When  all  are  well  mixed,  add  one  quart  flour  and  two 
tablespoons  baking  powder  previously  sifted  together.  Have  your  pans 
well  greased  and  hot ;  bake  quickly.     Very  nice  for  tea. 

33.  Pop-Overs — Four  eggs,  four  cups  flour,  four  cups  milk,  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  gem-pans,  and  serve  with 
sweet  sauce. 

34.  Cinnamon  Cake — When  making  yeast  bread  and  the 
sponge  is  ready  to  knead,  take  a  sufficient  portion  and  roll  out  three- 
fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  put  thin  slices  of  butter  on  the  top,  sprinkle 
with  cinnamon,  and  then  with  sugar  ;  let  it  rise  well  and  bake  for 
breakfast.     Is  a  fine  coffee  cake. 

35.  Biscuit — Dissolve  one  rounded  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
pint  of  hot  milk;  when  lukewTarm  stir  in  one  quart  of  flour,  add  one 
beaten  egg.  a  little  salt,  and  a  tea-cup  yeast;  work  the  dough  until 
smooth.  If  in  winter  set  in  a  warm  place,  if  in  summer  a  cool  place,  to 
rise.  In  the  morning  work  softly,  and  roll  out  a  half  inch  thick,  cut 
into  biscuit  and  set  to  rise  for  thirty  minutes,  when  they  will  be  ready  to 
bake.     These  are  delicious. 

36*  Biscuit — Take  one  quart  sifted  flour  (loosely  put  in),  two 
heaping  teaspoons  tartaric  acid  and  one  moderately  heaping  teaspoon 
soda,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  three  gills  of  water;  shape  out  with  a 
spoon  and  the  floured  hand. 

37.  Hard  Sugar  Biscuit — A  pound  of  butter,  two  of  flour,  and 
one  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  two  of  caraway-seeds, 
three  gills  milk,  a  teaspoon  soda.  Rub  the  butter  into  the  flour, 
and  mix  in  the  spices;  dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk,  mix  with  the 
sugar,  and  work  the  whole  to  a  stiff  dough.  Knead  it  well,  roll  out 
half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  prick  them  with  a  fork,  lay 
into  buttered  pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  to  a  light  brown. 

38.  Soft  Sugar  Biscuit — Three-fourths  pound  butter,  three 
of  flour,  one  of  sugar,  one  quart  bread  sponge,  milk  as  required. 
Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar,  rub  in  the  flour,  then  the 
sponge,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a  soft  dough;  knead  it  well, 
and  set  in  a  pan  to  rise;  commence  in  the  afternoon.  Next  morning 
knead  lightly,  make  up  with  the  hands  into  round  cakes  of  the  size  of 
a  silver  dollar,  and  an  inch  in  thickness.  Place  them  an  inch  apart  on 
buttered  tins,  set  to  rise  in  a  warm  place,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
when  light.  When  done  brush  them  over  lightly  with  a  little  cold  water 
and  let  them  cool  slowly  on  the  tins. 

39-  Soda  Biscuit — Put  one  quart  flour  into  sieve,  with  one 
teaspoon  soda  and  two  of  cream  tartar  (or  three  of  good  baking 
powder),  one  of  salt,  and  one  tablespoon  white  sugar;  mix  all  thor- 


« 


*5 

oughly  with  the  flour,  run  through  the  sieve,  and  rub  in  one 
level  tablespoon  of  lard  or  butter  (or  half  and  half  of  each),  wet  with 
a  half  pint  sweet  milk,  roll  out  on  board,  about  an  inch  thick,  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter  or  tumbler,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen 
minutes.  If  you  have  no  milk,  use  a  little  more  butter  or  lard,  and 
wet  with  water.     Handle  as  little  and  make  as  soon  as  possible. 

40.  South  Carolina  Biscuit — One  quart  sweet  cream  or  milk, 
one  and  a  half  cups  butter  or  fresh  lard,  two  tablespoons  white  sugar, 
one  good  teaspoon  salt ;  add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
knead  well,  and  mould  into  neat,  small  biscuit  with  the  hands,  as  our 
grandmothers  used  to  do  ;  add  one  good  teaspoon  cream  tartar  if 
preferred.  Bake  well  and  you  have  good  sweet  biscuit  that  will  keep 
for  weeks  in  a  dry  place,  and  are  very  nice  for  traveling  lunch. 

41.  Parker  House  Rolls — Two  quarts  flour,  one  pint  cold 
boiled  milk,  half  cup  yeast,  half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter; 
make  a  well  in  the  heap  of  flour,  pour  in  all  the  above,  and  let  it  rise 
until  morning  ;  then  knead  and  let  it  rise  until  about  three  in  the 
afternoon;  then  roll  out,  butter  them  about  the  edge,  and  lap  over; 
raise  for  tea,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

42.  Vienna  Rolls — Have  ready  in  a  bowl  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
or  lard,  made  soft  by  warming  a  little,  and  stirring  with  a  spoon.  Add  to 
one  quart  of  unsifted  flour  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  ; 
mix  and  sift  thoroughly  together,  and  place  in  a  bowl  with  the  butter. 
Take  sufficient  sweet  milk  to  form  a  dough  of  the  usual  stiffness, 
according  to  the  flour,  put  into  the  milk  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  and 
then  stir  it  into  the  flour,  etc.,  with  a  spoon,  forming  the  dough, 
which  turn  out  on  a  board  and  knead  sufficiently  to  make  smooth. 
Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  with  a  large  round  cutter;  fold 
each  one  over  to  form  a  half-round,  wetting  a  little  between  the 
folds  to  make  them  stick  together  ;  place  on  buttered  pans,  so  as 
not  to  touch,  wTash  over  on  top  with  milk  to  give  them  a  gloss, 
and  bake  immediately  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  It  will  do  them 
no  harm  to  stand  half  an  hour  before  baking  if  desired, 

43.  Coffee  Rolls — Work  into  a  quart  of  bread  dough  a  rounded 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  half  a  cup  white  sugar;  add  some  dried  cur- 
rants (well  washed  and  dried  in  the  oven),  sift  some  flour  and  sugar 
over  them,  and  work  into  the  other  ingredients;  make  into  small  rolls, 
dip  into  melted  butter,  place  in  tins,  let  rise  a  short  time  and  bake. 

44.  Egg  Rolls — Two  cups  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt, 
three  and  a  half  scant  cups  sifted  flour.     Bake  in  hot  gem  pans. 

45.  Long  Breakfast  Rolls — Three  and  a  half  cups  sweet 
milk,  one  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  in  equal  proportions,  one  cup 
potato  yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough.  Let  rise  over  night ;  in 
the  morning  add  one  beaten  egg.  Knead  thoroughly  and  let  rise  again. 
With  the  hands  make  into  balls  as  large  as  a  small  hen's  egg  ;  then 
roll  between  the  hands  to  make  long  rolls  (about  three  inches),  place 
close  together  in  even  rows  in  the  pans.  Let  rise  until  light,  and  bake 
delicately. 


i6 

46.  Sally  Lunn — One  and  one-half  pounds  of  flour,  two  ounces 
of  butter,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  one  saltspoon  salt,  and  three  eggs, 
one  tablespoon  yeast.  Warm  the  milk  and  butter  over  water  until  the 
butter  is  melted  ;  beat  the  eggs  in  a  two-quart  tin  pail,  and  if  the  milk 
is  not  hot  pour  it  over  them.  Stir  in  half  the  flour,  then  add  the  yeast, 
stirring  thoroughly  with  the  rest  of  the  flour.  Let  rise  over  night. 
Bake  a  little  brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Some  add  two  tablespoons 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  two  of  cream  tartar,  instead  of  the 
yeast. 

47-  English  Crumpets — One  quart  warm  milk,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  half  cup  yeast,  and  flour  enough  for  a  stiff  batter.  When  light 
add  half  a  cup  melted  butter,  let  stand  twenty  minutes,  and  bake  in 
muffin  lings  or  cups. 

48.  Cracknells — To  a  pint  of  rich  milk  put  two  ounces  butter 
and  a  spoon  of  yeast.  Make  it  warm,  and  mix  in  enough  fine  wheat 
flour  to  make  a  light  dough;  roll  thin  and  cut  in  long  pieces  two  inches 
broad.     Prick  well  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

49.  Buns — One  quart  bread  sponge,  three  pounds  flour,  three- 
fourths  pound  butter,  one  of  sugar,  milk  as  required.  Make  the 
sponge  in  the  following  manner  :  Into  a  pint  of  water  stir  enough 
flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  add  three  gills  yeast,  cover  and  put  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise  ;  when  very  light  it  is  fit  for  use.  In  cold  weather 
tepid  water  is  required.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  rub  the  flour  in 
by  handfuls,  work  smooth,  add  the  sponge,  and  milk  to  make  a  soft 
dough;  knead  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  over  night.  The  next  morning 
knead  it  lightly  and  roll  into  sheets  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  small 
round  cakes,  put  them  into  shallow  pans  well  buttered  so  they  touch 
each  other,  and  set  them  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  bake  in 
a  quick  oven.  Take  them  out  of  the  pan  and  wash  them  over  with 
thin  molasses  and  water,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve  when 
fresh.  ^ 

50.  Buns — Break  one  egg  into  a  cup  and  fill  with  sweet  milk  ; 
mix  with  it  half  a  cup  of  yeast,  same  of  butter,  one  cup  of  "sugar,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg  ;  let  rise  until 
very  light,  then  mould  into  biscuit  with  a  few  currants.  Let  them  rise 
a  second  time  in  the  baking-pan  ;  bake,  and  when  nearly  done,  glaze 
with  a  little  molasses  and  milk. 

51.  London  Hot  Cross  Buns — One  and  a  half  pints  milk, 
half  pint  yeast,  and  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  set  this 
as  a  sponge  over  night,  and  next  morning  add  half  pound  sugar,  a 
quarter  pound  melted  butter,  half  a  nutmeg  grated  fine,  one  salt- 
spoon  salt,  and  flour  to  make  up  like  biscuit;  knead  well  and  set 
to  rise  for  five  hours;  roll  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes 
and  lay  in  a  buttered  pan.  After  about  half  an  hour  make  a  cross  with 
a  knife  upon  each  and  set  at  once  in  the  oven;  bake  a  light  brown; 
while  yet  warm  brush  them  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  with 
powdered  sugar  quite  stiff. 


'7 

52.  Rusk — Three  pounds  flour,  naif  pound  of  butter,  same 
of  sugar,  two  eggs,  a  pint  and  a  half  milk,  two  tablespoons  rose 
water,  three  do.  strong  yeast.  Sift  the  sugar  into  a  large  pan,  and 
rub  it  into  the  butter  and  sugar ;  beat  the  eggs  very  light  and  stir  into 
the  milk,  adding  the  rose  water  and  yeast.  Make  a  hole  in  the  dough, 
pour  in  the  mixture,  and  slowly  mix  it  to  a  thick  batter  ;  cover  and  set 
by  the  fire  to  rise.  When  light  knead  it  well,  cut  into  small  cakes  and 
knead  each  separately,  lay  them  near  to  each  other,  but  not  touching, 
in  shallow  pans  well  dusted  with  flour;  prick  each  one  with  a  fork,  and 
set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  again.  When  quite  light  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.    They  should  be  eaten  the  same  day. 

53.  Rusk — Two  cups  raised  dough,  one  of  sugar,  half  cup 
butter,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  set  to 
rise,  and  when  light,  mould  into  high  biscuit,  and  let  rise  again;  sift 
sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  top  and  place  in  oven. 

54.  Lebanon  Rusk — One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  orwe  of  sugar, 
one  of  home-made  yeast,  three  eggs;  mix  together;  when  raised  light 
add  half  a  cup  butter  or  lard,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough; 
when  light  mould  into  small  cakes,  and  let  them  rise  again  before  bak- 
ing.    If  wanted  for  tea,  set  about  9  a.  m. 

55.  Johnny  Cakes — Scald  a  quart  Indian  meal,  with  water 
enough  to  make  a  very  thick  batter  ;  add  two  or  three  teaspoons 
salt ;  mould  into  small  cakes  with  the  hands  well  floured  ;  fry  them  in 
nearly  sufficient  fat  to  cover  them.  When  brown  on  the  under  side 
turn  them,  cooking  them  about  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  split  and 
butter  them. 

56.  Johnny  Cake  —  Two-thirds  teaspoon  soda,  three  table- 
spoons sugar,  one  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  one  egg,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
six  tablespoons  Indian  meal,  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  a  little  salt. 
This  makes  a  thin  batter. 

57.  New  England  Johnny  Cake — Take  one  pint  of  fine 
corn  meal,  and  pour  over  it  enough  boiling  water  to  wet  it  all  through; 
add  about  a  teaspoon  salt;  then  pour  in  milk  until  the  mixture  will 
drop  easily  from  the  spoon;  beat  it  well  ;  fry  on  a  griddle  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour,  turning  them  when  nicely  browned  on  one 
side. 

58.  Alabama  Johnny  Cake — Cook  a  pint  of  rice  until  tender, 
add  a  tablespoon  butter;  when  cold  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  one  pint 
cornmeal,  and  when  mixed  spread  on  an  oaken  board  and  bake  by  tip- 
ping the  board  before  the  fire-place.  When  done  on  one  side  turn  over. 
The  dough  should  be  spread  half  an  inch  thick 

59.  Corn  Dodgers — To  one  quart  corn  meal  add  a  little  sail 
and  a  small  tablespoon  lard;  scald  with  boiling  water  and  beat  hard  foi 
a  few  minutes;  drop  in  large  spoonsful  in  a  well  greased  pan.  The  battel 
should  be  thick  enough  to  just  flatten  on  the  bottom,  leaving  them  quite 
high  on  the  center.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


60.  French  Crackers — One  and  a  half  pounds  each  of  flour 
and  sugar,  three  quarters  pound  butter,  the  whites  of  five  eggs;  before 
baking  wash  over  with  egg  and  dip  in  sugar. 

61.  Egg  Crackers — Six  eggs,  twelve  tablespoons  sweet  milk, 
six  tablespoons  butter,  half  teaspoon  soda;  mould  with  flour  half  an  hour 
and  roll  thin.  • 

62.  Economical  Toast — Add  to  one-half  pint  of  sweet  milk 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  well-beaten  tgg;  dip  into  this 
slices  of  bread  (if  dry,  let  it  soak  a  little),  and  fry  on  a  buttered  griddle 
until  a  light  brown  on  each  side.     Dry  bread  may  thus  be  well  used. 

63.  Excellent  Toast — Cut  slices  of  a  uniform  thickness  of  half 
an  inch;  move  around  over  a  brisk  fire,  to  have  all  parts  uniformly  toasted; 
hold  only  so  near  the  coals  that  the  pieces  will  be  heated  through 
when  both  sides  are  properly  browned.  A  light  wire  grid-iron  will  be 
found  very  convenient  and  enable  you  to  toast  several  slices  at  once. 
If  the  smallest  part  of  either  of  the  slices  are  blackened  or  charred,  care- 
fully scrape  it  off,  or  it  will  flavor  the  whole.  If  covered  with  an  earthen 
bowl  it  will  keep  moist  and  warm,  or  a  clean  towel  or  napkin  will  answer 
if  it  is  to  be  immediately  served.  Stale  bread  may  be  used  for.  milk- 
toast,  but  sweet,  light  bread,  about  a  day  old,  is  the  best  for  dry-toast. 

64.  Corn-Meal  Mush — Put  four  quarts  fresh  water  in  a  kettle 
to  boil,  salt  to  suit  the  taste;  when  it  begins  to  boil  stir  in  one  and  a 
half  quarts  meal,  letting  it  sift  through  the  fingers  slowly  to  prevent 
lumps,  adding  it  a  little  faster  at  the  last,  until  as  thick  as  can  be  con- 
veniently stirred  with  one  hand;  set  in  the  oven  in  the  kettle  (or  take 
out  into  a  pan),  bake  an  hour,  and  it  will  be  thoroughly  cooked.  It 
takes  corn  meal  so  long  to  cook  thoroughly  that  it  is  very  difficult  to 
boil  it  until  done  without  burning.  The  thorough  cooking  and  baking 
in  oven  afterwards,  takes  away  all  the  raw  taste  of  the  meal,  that  is  so 
generally  found  in  mush  prepared  in  the  ordinary  way,  and  adds  much 
to  its  sweetness  and  delicious  flavor. 

A  hard  wooden  paddle,  two  feet  long,  with  a  blade  two  inches  wide 
and  seven  long,  will  be  found  a  most  convenient  instrument  to  stir  with. 

65.  Graham  Mush  —  Sift  Graham  meal  slowly  into  boiling 
salted  water,  stirring  briskly  until  thick  *as  can  be  stirred  with  one  hand; 
serve  with  milk  or  cream  and  sugar,  or  butter  and  syrup.  It  will  be 
improved  by  removing  from  the  kettle  to  a  pan,  as  soon  as  thoroughly 
mixed,  and  steaming  three  or  four  hours.  It  may  also  be  eaten  cold,  or 
sliced  and  fried,  like  corn-meal  mush. 

66.  Oat-Meal  Mush — To  two  quarts  boiling  water,  well  salted, 
add  one  and  a  half  cups  best  oat  meal ;  stir  the  meal  in  by  degrees,  and 
after  stirring  up  a  few  times  to  prevent  its  settling  down  in  a  mass  at  the 
bottom,  leave  it  to  cool  three  hours  without  stirring.  While  stirring  in, 
put  the  inner  kettle  directly  on  the  stove.  (All  mushes  and  prepara- 
tions of  like  description  should  be  cooked  in  a  custard  kettle,  or  water 
bath,  like  a  carpenter's  glue-pot.)  To  cook  for  breakkfast  it  maybe 
put  on  over  night,  allowing  it  to  boil  an  hour  or  two  in  the  evening,  but 


19 

it  is  better  when  freshly  cooked.  Serve  with  cream*  and  sugar.  To  be 
wholesome  it  must  be  well  cooked,  slowly,  but  for  a  considerable  time. 
In  lieu  of  a  custard  kettle  the  mush  may  be  made  in  a  pan  or  small  tin 
bucket,  and  then  placed  in  a  steamer  and  steamed  two  hours. 

This  is  unsurpassed  as  a  breakfast  dish,  and  especially  good  for 
young  children  who  need  bone  and  muscle-producing  food. 

67.  Steamed  Oat  Meal — To  one  teacup  oat  meal  add  a  quart 
cold  water,  a  teaspoon  salt;  put  in  a  steamer  over  a  kettle  of  cold 
water,  gradually  heat  and  steam  an  hour  and  a  half  after  it  begins  to  cook. 

68.  Cracked  Wheat — Two  quarts  salted  water  to  two  teacups 
best  cracked  wheat;  boil  two  or  three  hours  in  a  custard  kettle;  or, 
soak  over  night  and  boil  at  least  three-fourths  of  an  hour;  or,  put 
boiling  water  in  a  pan  or  small  bucket,  set  on  the  stove,  stir  in 
the  cracked  wheat,  set  in  a  steamer  and  steam  four  hours  ;  or,  make 
a  strong  sack  of  thick  muslin  or  drilling,  moisten  the  wheat  with 
cold  water,  add  a  little  salt,  place  in  sack,  leaving  half  the  space 
for  wheat  to  swell  in;  fit  a  round  sheet  of  tin,  perforated  with  holes 
half  an  inch  in  diameter,  to  the  inside  of  ordinary  kettle,  so  that  it  will 
rest  two  or  three  inches  from  the  bottom;  lay  the  sack  on  the  tin,  put  in 
water  enough  to  reach  the  tin,  and  boil  from  three  to  four  hours,  supply- 
ing water  as  it  evaporates.  Serve  with  butter  and  syrup  or  cream  and 
sugar.  When  cold  it  is  fine  when  sliced  and  fried;  or,  warm  it  with  a 
little  milk  and  salt,  in  a  pan  greased  with  a  little  butter;  or,  make  into 
griddle  cakes  with  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk  and  a  little  flour  and  a  pinch 
of  salt. 

69.  Fine  Hominy  or  Grits — Take  two  cups  hominy  or  wheaten 
grits  to  two  quarts  salted  water,  soak  over  night,  and  boil  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  a  custard  kettle.  Serve  with  milk  and  sugar;  or,  when 
cold,  slice  and  fry. 

GRIDDLE  OR  BATTER  CAKES. 

70.  Waffles — Take  one  quart  flour,  two  teaspoons  good  baking 
powder,  one  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  all  sifted  together;  add  a  table- 
spoon of  butter,  two  eggs,  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of  sweet  milk;  cook 
in  waffle-irons  well  heated  and  greased. 

71.  Waffles — One  pint  flour,  one  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  a  half,  a  little  salt,  one 
heaping  teaspoon  cream-tartar,  half  teaspoon  soda;  melt  the  butter 
and  stir  in  flour,  milk  and  eggs.  Sift  the  cream-tartar  and  soda  through 
a  fine  sieve  the  last  thing. 

72.  Waffles — Take  one  quart  flour,  a  teaspoon  salt,  a  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  and  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  thick  batter;  mix 
thoroughly;  add  two  well-beaten  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoons  tartaric 
acid,  and  one  moderately  heaping  teaspoon  soda;  stir  well  together 
and  bake  at  once  in  waffle-irons. 


20 

73.  Quick  Waffles — Two  pints  milk,  one  cup  melted  butter, 
and  sifted  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter;  add  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  six 
eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites,  and  lastly  (just  before  baking),  four  tea- 
spoons baking  powder;  beat  very  hard  and  fast  for  a  few  minutes.  Are 
very  good  with  but  four  or  five  eggs,  but  much  better  with  more. 

74.  Raised  Waffles — One  quart  flour,  one  pint  sweet  luke- 
warm milk,  two  eggs,  a  tablespoon  melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  salt  and 
half  a  cup  good  yeast.     Bake  in  waffle-irons  well  heated  and  greased. 

75.  Rice  Waffles — Boil  half  a  pint  of  rice  and  let  it  get  cold, 
mix  with  it  a  quarter  pound  of  butter,  and  a  little  salt;  sift  in  it  one 
and  a  half  pints  flour;    beat  five  eggs  separately;    stir  the  yelks  to- 
gether with  one  quart  milk,  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat 

nard,  and  bake  at  once  in  waffle-irons. 

76.  Massasoit  House  Waffle — Mix  a  batter  with  milk  the 
thickness  of  buckwheat  batter  ;  raise  the  paste  with  compressed  yeast; 
add  three  eggs  and  three  spoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  and  mix  thor- 
oughly.    Should  the  batter  become  sour  add  a  little  soda. 

77.  Buckwheat  Cakes — Use  only  buckwheat  flour  perfectly 
clear  of  grits  and  free  from  adulteration  with  rye  or  corn;  warm  one 
pint  sweet  milk  and  one  pint  water — or  one  may  be  cold  and  the  other 
boiling^ — put  half  of  this  into  a  stone  crock,  add  five  teacups  buckwheat 
flour,  beat  well  until  smooth,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  water,  and 
lastly  a  cup  of  yeast.  Or,  the  same  ingredients  and  proportions  may 
be  used,  except  adding  two  tablespoons  molasses  or  sugar,  and  using 
one  quart  water  instead  of  one  pint  each  of  milk  and  water. 

78.  Buckwheat  Cakes  without  Yeast — Two  cups  of  buck- 
wheat flour,  one  of  wheat  flour,  a  little  salt,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  about  equal  parts  of  milk  and  water 
until  the  batter  is  of  the  right  consistency,  then  stir  until  free  from 
lumps.     If  they  do  not  brown  well  add  a  little  molasses. 

79.  Bread  Griddle  Cakes — One  quart  milk,  boiling  hot;  two 
cups  fine  bread  crumbs,  three  eggs,  a  teaspoon  nutmeg,  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 
hot  water-,  break  the  bread  into  the  boiling  milk  and  let  stand  for  ten 
minutes  in  a  covered  bowl,  then  beat  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  the  yelks 
of  the  eggs  well  whipped,  the  butter,  salt,  soda,  and  finally  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  previously  whipped  stiff. 

80.  Huckleberry  Griddle  Cakes — Two  cups  milk,  a  cup  and 
a  half  molasses,  three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt, 
and  flour  to  make  a  batter.  Add  the  berries  after  the  batter  is  well 
mixed,  and  bake  like  other  griddle  cakes. 

81.  Corn  Cakes — One  pint  corn  meal,  one  of  sour  milk  or  but- 
ter-milk, one  egg,  one  teaspoon  soda  and  one  of  salt.  A  tablespoon  of 
corn  starch  may  be  used  instead  of  the  egg ;  bake  on  a  griddle. 


21 

82.  Batter  Cakes — Make  a  batter  of  one  quart  each  of  flour 
and  sour  milk,  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
a  level  teaspoon  of  soda;  pulverize  the  soda  very  fine  before  measuring, 
and  thoroughly  mix  with  the  dry  flour;  add  the  whites  of  eggs  just  be- 
fore baking  on  the  griddle.     May  be  made  without  eggs. 

143.  Flannel  Cakes — Heat  a  pint  of  sweet  milk,  and  into 
it  put  two  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  let  melt,  then  add  a  pint  of 
cold  milk  and  the  well-beaten  yelks  of  four  eggs — placing  the  whites  in 
a  cool  place  ;  also,  a  teaspoon  salt,  four  tablespoons  potato  yeast,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  ;  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  let  it 
stand  three  hours,  or  over  night ;  before  baking  add  the  beaten  whites  ; 
bake  like  any  other  griddle  cakes.  Be  sure  to  make  the  batter  stiff 
enough,  for  flour  must  not  be  added  after  it  has  risen,  unless  it  is  allowed 
to  rise  again. 

84.  Graham  Griddle  Cakes — One  quart  Graham  flour,  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  three  eggs,  and  milk  or  water  enough  to  make 
a  thin  batter. 

85.  Rice  Griddle  Cakes — Boil  half  a  cup  rice  ;  when  cold,  mix 
one  quart  sweet  milk,  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  and  flour  sufficient  to  make 
a  stiff  batter  ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  froth,  stir  in  one  teaspoon  soda  and 
two  of  cream  of  tartar,  add  a  little  salt,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  ;  bake  on  a  griddle.  Serve  by  spreading  them  while  hot  with 
butter,  and  also  any  kind  of  jelly  or  preserves  ;  roll  them  up  neatl]  cut 
off  the  ends,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  serve  quickly. 

86.  Pancakes — Put  in  an  earthen  pan  four  whole  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  three  spoons  of  flour ;  beat  with  one  quart  of 
milk.  The  preparation  must  be  very  light.  Bake  the  pancakes  in  a 
frying  pan,  very  thickly  spread  with  butter,  turn  them  upside 
down  on  the  table,  put  some  currant  or  other  jelly  on  one  side  ;  roll 
them  ;  put  them  on  a  plate  ;  powder  them  with  sugar,  and  candy 
with  a  poker,  heated  red  hot. — Emile  Combe ;  Chef  de  Cuisine ',  Hotel 
Wellington. 

87.  Indian  Pancakes — One  pint  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
a  small  teaspoon  soda  ;  pour  on  boiling  water  until  thinner  than  mush  ; 
let  it  stand  until  cool  and  add  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour, 
in  which  has  been  mixed  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar  ;  stir  in  as  much 
sweet  milk  or  water  as  will  make  the  batter  suitable  to  bake  ;  beat  the 
whites  well  and  add  just  before  baking. 

88.  French  Pancakes — Beat  together,  until  smooth,  six  eggs 
and  a  half  pound  flour,  melt  four  ounces  butter,  and  add  to  the  batter, 
with  one  ounce  sugar  and  half  pint  milk;  beat  until  smooth  ;  put  a 
tablespoonful  at  a  time  into  a  frying-pan,  slightly  greased,  spreading 
the  batter  evenly  over  the  surface  by  tipping  the  pan  about;  fry  to  a 
light  brown;  spread  with  jelly,  roll  up,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  anf7 
serve  hot 


22 

89.  Doughnuts — Two  cups  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two 
cups  sugar,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  three  eggs  and  a  little  salt 
(cinnamon  if  desired),  flour  sufficient  to  roll ;  fry  in  hot  lard  sufficient 
to  float,  skim  out  and  drain  until  dry. 

90.  Thomaston  Fritters — Three  eggs,  one  and  a  half  cups 
milk,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  flour  enough  to  make  thicker 
than  batter  cakes  ;  drop  into  hot  lard  and  fry  like  doughnuts. 

A  Sauce  for  the  Above — One  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter, 
one  teaspoon  flour  beaten  together,  half  a  cup  boiling  water;  flavor 
with  extract  lemon  and  boil  until  clear. 

91.  Queen  Fritters — One  pint  water,  four  ounces  butter,  eight 
ounces  flour,  ten  eggs;  boil  the  water  and  butter  together  in  a  sauce- 
pan large  enough  to  beat  the  mixture  in;  put  in  the  flour  all  at  once, 
and  stir  over  the  fire  till  well  cooked  ;  let  stand  till  warm,  and  add  the 
eggs,  one  at  a  time;  beat  well  with  a  spoon  against  the  side  of  the  pan; 
fry  slowly  in  hot  lard,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. — Palmer  House, 
Chicago. 

92.  Apple  Fritters — Three  eggs  beaten  very  light,  one  quart 
milk;  make  a  thin  batter;  add  a  little  salt  and  the  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon;  pare,  core  and  slice  thin  one  quart  select  tart  apples;  add  to 
the  batter,  and  cook  by  dropping  in  by  spoonfuls  in  boiling  lard;  skim 
out  with  a  skimmer  and  drain.     Serve  with  sauce. 

93.  Apple  Fritters — Make  a  batter  in  the  proportion  of  one 
cup  sweet  milk  to  two  cups  flour,  a  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  tablespoon  sugar  and  a  saltspoon  of 
salt;  heat  the  milk  a  little  more  than  milk- warm;  add  it  slowly  to  the 
beaten  yelks  and  sugar,  then  add  flour  and  whites  of  the  eggs;  stir  all 
together  and  throw  in  thin  slices  of  good  sour  apples,  dipping  the  batter 
up  over  them;  drop  into  boiling  hot  lard  in  large  spoonfuls  with  pieces 
of  apple  in  each,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Serve  with  maple  syrup,  or 
a  nice  syrup  made  with  clarified  sugar. 

94.  Cream  Fritters — One  and  a  half  pints  flour,  one  pint 
milk,  six  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  grated  nutmeg,  two  teaspoons  salt 
and  one  pint  cream.  Stir  the  whole  together  enough  to  mix  the  cream; 
fry  in  small  cakes. 

95.  Brown  Bread — One  pint  yellow  corn  meal,  one  pint  rye 
meal,  one-half  cup  flour,  all  sifted  together;  add  a  little  salt  and  one 
cup  molasses;  dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  half  a  cup  of  hot  water, 
and  at  once  fill  it  with  cold  water;  pour  it  on  the  mixed  flour,  etc., 
adding  enough  tepid  water  to  make  all  thin;  boil  a  cup  of  raisins  and 
stir  into  the  bread  mixture;  mix  all  well,  and  it  is  ready  for  the  baking 
tins.  Use  a  regular  brown  bread  tin  with  a  cover  to  bake  it  in;  bake 
seven  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  The  bread  tin  should  be  deep,  round, 
small  at  the  bottom  and  large  at  the  top,  with  a  tight  cover  and  in 
the  form  of  a  small  ice  cream  mould  of  conical  shape.  Any  tinner  can 
make  it  at  small  cost. — Palmer  House}  Chicago, 


FOREMOST  AMONG 


BAKING  POWDERS 


STA1TI3S 


*> 


Phosphatic  Baking  Powder 

The  Strongest  and  Healthiest  Baking  Powder  made. 


It  is  put  up  in  Bottles,  with  wide  mouths  to  admit  a 
Spoon,  and  it  is  endorsed  by  EMINENT  PHYSICIANS 
and  CHEMISTS  as  the  MOST  HEALTHFUL  and  NU- 
TRITIOUS BAKING  POWDER  KNOWN  NO  SHORT- 
ENING is  required  when  using  HORSFORD'S  BAKING 
POWDER,  and  it  makes  LIGHTER  BISCUIT,  BREAD, 
GEMS,  CAKES,  etc.,  than  it  is  possible  to  produce  with  any 
other  Powder.    For  Sale  by  all  Dealers. 

Rumford  Chemical  Works, 


Providence,  Rhode  Island. 

BEWARE    OP    IMITATIONS. 


KING  OFSUMMERCOOKSTOVES 


IMPROVED  "NEW  SUCCESS" 

CIRCULAR  WICK  OIL  STOVE,  the  best,  the  most  power- 
ful, cheapest  and  safest  Oil  Stove  in  the  world. 

BAUER  BROS.  <3c  CO., 

MANUFACTURERS, 

70  Dearborn  Street,  CHICAGO. 


BEEF. 


Note — Much  depends  upon  a  good  selection  of  beef.  The  fat 
in  that  grass-fed  is  whiter  than  corn-fed,  that  of  the  cow  whiter  than 
ox  beef.  Select  that  which  is  a  clear  cherry  red  after  a  cut  has  been 
taken  off  and  exposed  to  the  air  a  few  moments.  Ox  beef  is  far  prefer- 
able to  cow  beef,  as  being  the  sweeter  and  more  juicy,  and  is  also  the 
most  economical.  Meat  from  oki  or  poorly-fed  animals  has  a  coarse, 
skinny  fat  and  a  dark  red  lean.  To  test  beef,  press  into  it  with  the 
finger.  If  the  dent  rises  up  quickly,  it  is  fresh  and  prime;  but  if  it 
disappears  slowly,  or  remains,  it  is  inferior.  For  roasts  the  sirloin  and 
rib  pieces  are  mostly  used.  For  steaks  the  porterhouse  and  sirloin  are 
the  choicest.  Rounds  and  rump  steaks  are  usually  tough;  of  the  former 
select  the  inner  half — they  have  the  best  flavor  of  any,  and  when  well 
pounded  before  broiling  are  quite  edible.  A  rib  steak  of  fat  beef — cut 
from  between  the  ribs,  or  the  ribs  removed — is  fine,  tender  and  juicy. 
Fifteen  minutes  to  the  pound  and  fifteen  minutes  over,  is  the  rule  for 
roasts  of  beef,  most  people  preferring  it  (as  well  as  mutton)  underdone. 
Less  time  is  required  to  cook  than  for  pork,  veal  or  lamb,  which  must 
always  be  very  well  done  to  be  palatable,  and  the  rule  for  these  is 
twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  twenty  minutes  longer.  For  steaks: 
they  are  cut  from  half  an  inch  to  an  inch  and  a  half  in  thickness,  and 
are  broiled  well  or  underdone,  to  fancy.  Broiled  steaks  are  far  prefer- 
able to  fried,  when  the  means  for  cooking  either  way  are  equally  con- 
venient. When  fried  they  should  as  a  rule  be  well  cooked.  Do  not 
salt  beef  before  or  while  cooking,  as  it  draws  out  the  juices,  and  which, 
in  broiling  especially,  are  thereby  lost. 

96.  Roast  Beef — Take  a  rib-piece  or  loin-roast  of  seven  to  eight 
pounds ;  wipe  it  thoroughly  all  over,  lay  it  in  the  roasting-pan  and 
baste  with  melted  butter  ;  put  it  in  the  well-heated  stove  oven,  and 
while  roasting  baste  it  frequently  with  its  ow#  drippings,  which  will  make 
it  both  brown  and  tender.  If,  when  it  is  cooking  fast,  or  the  gravy  is 
growing  too  brown,  turn  a  glass  of  cooking  wine  into  the  bottom  of  the 
pan,  and  repeat  this  as  often  as  the  gravy  cooks  awTay.  Such  a  roast 
needs  about  two  hours'  time  to  be  properly  done,  and  should  be  brown 
outside,  but  inside  a  little  red.  Twenty  minutes  less  time  to  be  used 
when  desired  quite  rare.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  squeeze  a 
little  lemon  juice  over  it,  and  also  turn  the  gravy  upon  it  after  skimming 
off  all  the  fat. 

97.  Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding — Select  a  roast  in 
size  according  to  the  number  at  table — a  loin  or  rib-piece — and  roast  as 
in  preceding  recipe,  care  being  used  to  baste  without  disturbing  the 
pudding  after  it  is  put  in.  Make  a  Yorkshire  pudding  to  eat  with  it  as 
follows:  For  every  pint  of  milk  take  three  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  stir  to  a  smooth  batter,  and  pour  into  the  dripping-pan 
under  the  meat,  half  an  hour  before  it  is  done. 


26 

98.  Ragout  of  Beef— For  six  pounds  of  the  round  take  half 
a  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  up  with  two  or  three  onions,  in  a  vessel  with 
a  tight  cover;  add  half  a  dozen  cloves,  a  stick  of  cinnamon,  and  a  little 
whole  black  pepper;  cut  gashes  in  the  meat,  into  which  stuff  half  a 
pound  of  fat  salt  pork  cut  in  square  bits;  place  the  meat  upon  the 
other  ingredients,  and  pour  over  them  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  a  cup 
of  water;  cover  tightly,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  slowly  for  four  or 
five  hours,  and  when  about  done,  salt  to  taste.  When  done  take  out  the 
meat,  strain  the  gravy  through  a  colander,  and  thicken  with  flour. 

99.  Beef  a  la  Mode — Into  a  piece  of  the  rump  cut  deep 
openings  with  a  sharp  knife;  put  in  pieces  of  pork  cut  into  dice  and 
previously  rolled  in  pepper,  salt,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  In  an  iron  stew- 
pan  lay  pieces  of  pork,  sliced  lemon,  sliced  onions,  one  or  two  carrots, 
and  a  bay-leaf;  lay  the  meat  on  and  put  over  it  a  piece  of  bread-crust 
as  large  as  the  hand ;  pour  over  all  a  half-pint  wine  and  a  little  vinegar, 
and  afterward  an  equal  quantity  of  water  or  rich  broth,  until  the  meat 
is  half  covered;  cover  the  dish  tightly  and  cook  until  tender;  take 
out,  rub  the  gravy  through  a  sieve,  skim  off  all  fat,  add  some  sour 
cream,  and  then  return  to  the  stew-pan  to  cook  ten  minutes.  If  desired, 
the  meat  may  be  prepared  some  days  before  in  a  spiced  vinegar  or  wine 
pickle. 

100.  Beefsteak,  Broiled — Lay  a  thick  tender  steak  upon  a 
gridiron,  well  greased  with  butter  or  suet,  over  hot  coals.  When  done 
on  one  side  have  ready  a  warmed  platter  with  a  little  butter  on  it ;  lay 
the  steak,  without  pressing  it,  cooked  side  down,  so  that  the  juices 
which  have  gathered  may  run  on  the  platter,  then  quickly  place  it  upon 
the  gridiron  again  and  cook  the  other  side.  When  done  place  upon  the 
platter  again,  spread  lightly  with  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  keep  warm  for  a  few  moments  over  steam,  but  not  long  enough 
for  the  butter  to  become  oily.  Serve  on  hot  plates.  Garnish  with 
sprigs  of  parsley,  fried  potato  or  browned  potato  balls,  placed  around 
the  platter. 

101.  Beefsteak,  Sried — Never  fry  them  when  you  have  the 
means  to  broil  them  at  hand.  When  you  have  not,  the  next  best  method 
is  to  heat  a  thin  frying-pan  quite  hot,  put  in  a  steak  previously  hacked 
or  pounded  with  an  iron  maul,  let  it  remain  a  few  moments,  loosen 
it  with  a  knife,  and  turn  quickly  several  times ;  repeat  this,  and  when 
done  put  on  a  hot  platter  ;  salt,  pepper,  and  put  over  it  bits  of  butter. 
When  more  than  one,  pile  one  on  top  of  another,  and  cover  with  a  hot. 
platter. 

102.  Beefsteak  and  Onions — Slice  the  onions  thin  and  drop 
into  cold  water.  Put  a  steak  in  the  pan  with  a  little  suet.  Skim  out 
the  onions  and  add  to  the  steak,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover 
tightly  and  put  over  the  fire.  When  the  juice  of  the  onions  has  dried 
up  and  the  steak  has  browned  on  one  side,  remove  the  onions,  turn  the 
steak,  replace  the  onions,  and  fry  till  done. 

103.  Boiled  Corned  Beef— Soak  over  night  if  very  salt,  but  if 
the  beef  is  young  and  not  too  long  corned  this  is  not  necessary.     Pour 


27 

over  it  cold  water  enough  to  cover  it  well  after  washing  off  the  salt 
The  rule  for  boiling  meats  is  generally  twenty-five  minutes  to  a  pound, 
but  corned  beef  should  be  placed  on  a  part  of  the  stove  or  range  where 
it  will  simmer,  not  boil,  for  from  four  to  six  hours,  according  to  size  of 
the  piece.  If  tough  let  it  remain  in  the  liquor  until  next  day,  and 
bring  it  to  the  boiling  point  just  before  serving.  For  briskets,  or  plate 
pieces,  simmer  until  the  bones  are  easily  removed,  fold  over  into  a 
square  or  oblong  piece,  place  a  weight  upon  it  to  press,  and  set  where 
it  will  become  cold,  which  will  give  a  firm  solid  piece  to  cut  in  slices. 
Save  the  liquor,  boil  it  down,  remove  the  fat,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  sweet  herbs.  Pour  over  finely  minced  scraps  or  pieces  of  the  beef, 
press  the  meat  firmly  into  a  mould,  and  place  a  close  cover  and  weight 
upon  it.  When  turned  from  the  mould  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley 
or  celery,  and  serve  with  French  mustard  or  pickles. 

104.  Corned  Beef — Have  especially  corned  by  your  butcher  a 
piece  of  the  round,  after  two  to  four  steaks  are  taken  off  (according  to 
size  of  the  round)  of  about  six  inches  in  thickness  ;  corn  three  to  four 
days,  with  rock  salt,  a  little  saltpetre  and  sugar  in  the  pickle;  wrap 
round  it  as  tightly  as  possible  several  coils  of  strong  cord;  boil  slowly 
for  six  to  seven  hours  in  a  vessel  large  enough  to  suspend  it. 

If  desired  hot,  then  cut  the  wrapping  and  serve.  Save  the  liquor 
in  the  pot,  and  what  remains  from  dinner  replace  in  it;  let  it  stand  over 
night,  or  longer,  when  all  the  liquor  will  be  absorbed  by  the  meat. 

This  process  will  ensure  the  meat  both  finely  flavored  and  tender, 
surpassing  tongue  for  cold  lunches,  tea  or  sandwiches.  An  invaluable 
recipe. 

105.  Pressed  Corned  Beef— After  serving  corned  beef  at  din- 
ner, while  yet  warm,  chop  up  fat  and  lean  together,  not  necessarily  very 
fine  only  so  that  fat  and  lean  may  be  evenly  mixed;  stir  in  enough  dry 
mustard  to  flavor  it;  put  it  in  an  oblong  tapering  baking-pan,  and 
place  over  it  (right  side  up)  another  of  same  size;  put  into  this  two  or 
three  flat  irons  for  a  weight  and  let  stand  over  night.  The  next  day  it 
will  turn  out  in  a  good  loaf,  from  which  nice  slices  can  be  cut. 

106.  Spiced  Beef  Relish — A  pound  of  rare  beef  chopped  very 
fine  (if  you  have  a  sausage  cutter  put  it  through  that),  and  three  Boston 
crackers  rolled  and  sifted  ;  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  table- 
spoon of  table  sauce  and  a  pinch  of  sweet  marjorum,  and  one  tgg  well 
beaten;  work  all  together  with  the  hands  until  thoroughly  mixed; 
form  into  a  loaf  by  pressing  into  a  bowl,  and  turn  out  on  a  buttered 
tin;  rub  a  little  buttpr  over  it,  and  pour  on  a  large  cup  of  the  juice  of 
canned  tomatoes  ;  set  in  the  oven  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
basting  frequently  with  the  tomato.     Serve  the  next  day,  cold. 

107.  Beef  en  Ragout — Cut  one  or  two  slices  of  salt  pork  into 
dice,  and  fry  until  brown;  pour  in  a  little  stock  or  water,  in  which  cook 
three  or  four  potatoes  cut  in  slices,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  thyme,  and  a 
small  bay-leaf,  pepper  and  salt.  Half  an  hour  before  serving,  put  in 
slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  adding  a  dash  of  vinegar  if  you  like. 


28 

108.  Roast  Beef  and  Tomato  Sauce— Have  ready  on  a 
platter  nicely  cut  slices  of  cold  roast  beef,  both  rare  and  well  done; 
make  a  tomato  sauce  as  follows:  Stew  ten  tomatoes,  with  three  cloves, 
pepper  and  salt,  for  fifteen  minutes  (a  sliced  onion  and  a  sprig  or  two 
of  parsley  may  also  be  added  if  the  flavor  is  desired) ;  strain,  put  on 
the  stove  in  a  sauce-pan,  with  an  egg-sized  lump  of  butter  and  a  table- 
spoon of  flour  previously  rubbed  together;  stir  all  until  smooth,  and 
pour  it  hot  over  the  beef.  Let  stand  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 
Canned  tomatoes  may  be  used  for  the  sauce. 

109.  Fricassee  of  Cold  Roast  Beef— Cut  the  beef  into  very 
thin  slices,  shred  a  handful  of  parsley  very  fine,  cut  a  small  onion  into 
quarters,  and  put  all  together  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  small  piece  of  butter 
and  some  strong  soup  stock  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer 
very  gently  fifteen  minutes,  then  mix  in  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  and  a 
teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Rub  a  hot  dish  with  a  clove  of  garlic, 
and  turn  the  fricassee  into  it. 

110.  Stewed  Beef — Take  a  slice  of  rump,  pound  till  tender, 
lay  in  an  iron  kettle  in  which  have  been  placed  slices  of  pork  and 
onions  with  a  few  pepper-corns;  dredge  with  salt,  and  baste  with 
melted  butter;  closely  cover  the  kettle  and  place  over  a  brisk  fire,  and 
when  fried  to  a  nice  brown,  add  a  pint  of  cooking  wine  and  the  same 
of  good  soup  stock;  stew  until  soft;  take  out  the  meat,  skim  off  the 
fat,  and  add  a  tablespoon  flour  smoothly  mixed  with  broth;  add  more 
broth  gradually,  strain  and  turn  over  the  dish  of  meat.  If  the  meat  is 
previously  placed  in  a  spiced  pickle  for  two  or  three  days,  it  will  much 
improve  it. 

111.  Beef  Pie — Line  the  sides  of  a  pudding-dish  with  a  puff 
paste,  as  directed  (see  Puddings  and  Pastry),  lay  in  small  slices  of 
cold  roast  beef,  pepper,  salt,  and  then  a  few  slices  cold  boiled  potatoes. 
Proceed  in  same  way  until  the  dish  is  full;  pour  over  it  a  cup  of  gravy, 
and  the  same  quantity  of  stewed  or  canned  tomato,  cover  over  with  the 
puff  paste,  putting  a  rim  of  it  around  edge  of  the  dish,  before  putting 
on  the  cover.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

112.  Beef  and  Potato  Pie — Cut  cold  roast  beef  or  rare-done 
beefsteak  into  thin  slices,  and  put  a  layer  into  a  pie-dish;  dredge  in  a 
little  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  then  peel  and  slice  in  one  tomato  with  one 
tablespoon  grated  onion;  put  in  another  layer  of  beef  and  pour  in 
enough  gravy  or  soup  stock  to  moisten  it;  have  ready  a  large  cupful 
of  mashed  potatoes,  wet  with  enough  milk  to  make  it  soft;  spread  this 
over  the  top  of  the  pie  and  bake  about  twenty-five  minutes.  Just 
before  taking  up,  rub  a  little  butter  over  the  top. 

113.  Beef  Croquettes — One  cup  of  lean  beef,  one  of  the  fat, 
half  a  cup  of  cold  boiled  or  fried  ham,  a  piece  of  onion  as  large  as  a 
silver  dollar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  half  a  one  of  pepper,  a  pinch  of 
sage,  and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel;  chop  all  as  fine  as  possible,  or 
put  through  a  mincing  machine;  then  heat  with  half  a  cup  of  stock 
or  cold  soup;  add  one  egg  well  beaten.  Mould  into  croquettes  with 
the  hand,  roll  in  flour  or  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


29 

114.  Corned  Beef  Hash — Chop  cold  corned  beef,  and  to  one 
cup  of  meat  add  two  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  chopped;  mix  in  one 
tablespoon  dry  mustard  and  a  little  pepper;  put  an  egg-sized  piece  of 
butter  in  a  frying-pan  and  let  it  melt  slowly,  turning  the  pan  so  that  it 
will  be  thoroughly  buttered ;  put  in  the  hash,  pressing  it  down 
smoothly  all  over  the  pan;  moisten  slightly  with  hot  water  and  let  cook, 
without  stirring  at  all,  until  it  begins  to  brown  on  the  sides,  which  you 
can  tell  by  pressing  it  back  from  the  sides,  when  it  will  be  done.  Turn 
out  on  a  hot  platter  bottom  side  up  in  a  cake. 

115.  Beef  Tongue  Hash — Chop  the  heel  of  a  cold  boiled 
tongue  and  add  twice  as  much  cold  boiled  potato,  with  enough  mustard 
to  season  it;  put  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  English  walnut  into  a 
frying-pan;  shake  it  as  it  melts,  so  that  every  part  may  be  coated;  put 
in  the  hash  and  press  it  down  firmly,  adding  enough  hot  water  to 
moisten.  When  it  begins  to  cook  press  it  away  from  the  sides  of  the 
pan,  so  as  to  have  it  oval  form,  and  as  soon  as  browned  turn  out  on  a 
hot  platter.     Garnish  with  pickled  beet. 

116.  Boiled  Beef  Tongue — Wash  a  fresh  tongue  and  just 
cover  it  with  water  in  the  pot;  put  in  a  pint  of  salt  and  a  small  red 
pepper;  add  more  water  as  it  evaporates,  so  as  to  keep  the  tongue 
nearly  covered  until  done — when  it  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  fork; 
take  it  out,  and  if  wanted  soon,  take  off  the  skin  and  set  it  away  to  cool. 
If  wanted  for  future  use,  do  not  peel  it  until  it  is  required.  A  pint  of 
salt  will  do  for  three  tongues,  if  you  have  that  number  to  boil;  but  do 
not  fail  to  keep  water  enough  in  the  pot  to  keep  them  covered  while 
boiling.  If  salt  tongues  are  used,  soak  them  over  night,  of  course 
omitting  the  salt  when  boiling.  Or,  after  peeling  a  tongue,  place  it  in 
a  saucepan  with  one  cup  of  water,  half  a  cup  vinegar,  four  tablespoons 
sugar,  and  cook  until  the  liquor  is  evaporated. 

117.  Spiced  Beef  Tongue — Rub  into  each  tongue  a  mixture 
made  of  half  pound  sugar,  a  piece  of  saltpeter  size  of  a  pea,  and  a 
tablespoon  ground  cloves;  put  it  in  a  brine  made  of  three-fourths  pound 
of  salt  to  two  quarts  of  water,  and  keep  covered.  Pickle  two  weeks, 
then  wash  well,  and  dry  with  a  cloth;  roll  out  a  thin  paste  made  of 
flour  and  water,  smear  it  all  over  the  tongue,  and  place  in  a  pan  to 
bake  slowly;  baste  well  with  lard  and  hot  water;  when  done,  scrape  off 
the  paste  and  skin. 

118.  Broiled  Calves'  Liver — Take  a  fine  fresh  liver  of  a  calf 
two  to  three  months'  old;  wash  and  slice  about  one-fourth  inch  thick; 
grease  a  wire  gridiron  and  broil  crisp  or  well  done,  according  to  taste, 
frequently  turning,  but  never  rare  or  under  done.  Take  up  and  well 
butter  both  sides  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  hot.  Has  somewhat  the 
flavor  of  the  breast  of  a  broiled  prairie  chicken. 

119.  Fried  Liver,  Breaded — Cut  in  thin  slices  and  place  on 
a  platter;  pour  over  it  boiling  water,  which  immediately  turn  off  (this 
removes  any  strong  taste  from  beef's  liver) ;  have  ready  in  the  pan 
some  hot  lard  or  beef  drippings,  or  both;  dredge  the  liver  with  rolled 
crackers  or  dry  bread  crumbs  rolled  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt  and 


3o 

pepper;  place  in  the  pan,  cover,  and  fry  slowly  until  both  sides  are 
dark  brown.  Should  be  an  hour  in  cooking,  as  it  is  better  cooked 
slowly. 

;  120.  Fried  Tripe — Take  good  fat  honey-comb  tripe,  partly  dry 
it  with  a  cloth,  dredge  with  flour  or  dip  in  egg  and  roll  in  fine  cracker 
crumbs;  fry  in  hot  butter  or  other  fat  until  a  delicate  brown  on  both 
sides;  lay  it  on  a  platter,  and  make  a  gravy  in  the  pan  by  adding  a 
little  vinegar  to  it,  which  pour  over  the  tripe. 

121.  Fried  Tripe — Make  a  batter  by  mixing  gradually  one  cup 
of  flour  with  one  of  sweet  milk,  adding  a  well-beaten  tgg  and  a  little 
salt;  drain  the  tripe,  dip  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  fat. 

122.  Fricasseed  Tripe — Cut  the  tripe  in  narrow  strips,  put  it 
in  a  little  water  or  milk,  add  a  good  piece  of  butter,  previously  rolled 
in  flour;  season  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt;  let  it  simmer  slowly  for 
some  considerable  time.  Serve  in  a  deep  dish,  and  garnish  with  pars- 
ley chopped  fine  and  sprinkled  on  top. 

123.  Chipolata  —  Slice  a  small  onion  with  a  tablespoon  of 
hot  butter;  when  fried  brown,  pour  in  a  cup  of  cold  beef  or  tomato 
soup;  add  one  sprig  of  thyme,  one  of  parsley,  and  a  bay-leaf,  with  salt 
and  pepper;  when  it  boils,  stir  in  a  thickening  of  one  heaping  teaspoon 
flour,  wet  with  cold  water;  add  a  little  caramel  (see  Confectionery 
and  Cake),  and  just  before  serving  put  thin  slices  of  cold  roast  beef 
into  the  gravy  and  let  them  heat  through.  Pour  on  a  dish,  and  garnish 
with  stoned  olives,  parsley  or  celery,  according  to  fancy. 

124.  Potted  Beef — From  what  remains  of  a  roast  of  beef  re- 
move all  the  bone  and  gristle;  chop  it  fine  and  season  with  salt  and  a 
very  little  Cayenne  pepper,  also  a  pinch  of  cloves,  mace  and  sage;  boil 
down  a  little  rich  soup  stock — with  a  bit  of  onion  in  it  if  the  flavor  is 
desired — sufficiently  to  form  quite  a  hard,  strong  jelly  when  cold;  while 
the  stock  is  hot  moisten  the  meat  with  it,  and  press  into  an  earthen 
pot  or  jar;  place  it  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  two  hours;  then  put 
it  in  a  cool  place  for  use. 

125.  Staffordshire  Beefsteak — Beat  the  steak  a  little  with  a 
rolling  pin;  flour  and  season;  then  fry  with  a  sliced  onion  to  a  fine  light 
brown;  lay  the  steak  into  a  stew  pan,  and  pour  as  much  boiling  water 
over  as  will  serve  for  sauce;  stew  very  gently  half  an  hour  and  add  a 
spoonful  of  catsup  before  serving. 

126.  Stewed  Chipped  Beef— Heat  milk  and  water  (about 
half  of  each),  and  thicken  with  a  beaten  egg  and  a  little  flour;  when 
nicely  boiled,  add  the  beef,  either  chipped  or  sliced  as  thin  as  possible, 
and  almost  immediately  remove  from  the  fire,  as  the  less  it  is  cooked 
the  better;  if  the  beef  is  very  salt,  it  will  need  freshening  in  a  little  hot 
water  before  going  into  the  gravy,  but  if  not  it  will  season  it  just  right. 

127.  Courtland  Beef — Mince  some  cold  and  rare  roast  beef 
including  the  fat;  put  in  a  small  stew  pan,  rubbed  with  a  clove  of  garlic, 
a  little  water,  half  a  small  onton,  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  it  until  the 
onion  is  quite  soft,  then  add  the  minced  beef  with  some  of  its  gravy, 


3* 

and  stew  gently  but  do  not  let  it  boil;  prepare  toasted  bread  cut  in 
small  triangular  pieces  and  lay  around  the  edge  of  a  hot  dish;  add  a 
little  vinegar  to  the  stew  and  pour  over  it. 

128.  Filet  de  Bceuf  Chateaubriand — Take  a  large  or  double 
tenderloin  steak  and  broil  it;  have  some  parisienne  potatoes  (see  Pota- 
toes a  la  Parisienne),  saute  with  butter,  which  put  around  the  dish;  melt 
some  butter  in  a  sauce-pan,  sprinkle  in  a  little  chopped  parsley;  add  the 
juice  of  half  a  lemon;  mix  all  thoroughly  and  pour  it  over  the  steak. — ■ 
Edward  Mehl,  Chef  de  Cuisine \  Gilsey  House,  New  York. 

129.  Beef  Cakes — Chop  up  some  rare  done  roast  beef  with  a 
little  fat  ham  or  bacon;  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  little  onion; 
mix,  and  make  into  small  cakes  and  fry  them  until  brown;  make  a 
gravy  of  soup  stock,  or  the  beef  gravy  which  was  left,  thickened  with 
browned  flour.  <&> 

130.  Rounds  of  Beef— Roasted — Take  a  whole  round  of 
young  ox  beef,  weighing  forty  to  sixty  pounds  (according  to  number 
for  which  it  is  to  be  used),  neatly  remove  the  bone  and  trim  off  all 
gristle  or  superfluous  fat.  Wrap,  around  it  in  several  coils,  commencing 
at  the  top  and  winding  downward,  some  stout  cord  half  as  large  as  a 
pencil,  draw  tight  and  tie.  Bake  it  in  a  moderate  oven  (a  brick  oven  is 
the  best)  from  six  to  eight  hours,  according  to  size,  or  about  an  hour  to 
each  ten  pounds  ;  baste  it  frequently  with  drippings  and  turn  it  over 
twice  during  the  time.  Test  it  with  a  long  skewrer  or  steel  and  when 
quite  tender  to  the  centre,  it  is  done.  Rub  lightly  over  with  salt  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  dry  place  with  the  wrapping  left  on  until  required  for 
use.  It  should  be  dark  brown  outside  and  moderately  rare  within.  Is 
fine  for  picnics  or  other  large  assemblies, 

131.  Hamburger  Steak — Take  a  pound  of  flank  or  round  steak, 
without  any  fat,  and  chop  medium  fine,  also  chop  an  onion  quite  fine 
and  mix  well  with  the  meat ;  season  with  a  little  red  and  black  pepper 
mixed  together  in  proportions  of  one  quarter  of  red  pepper  only,  and 
fry  in  a  little  butter  or  lard,  the  latter  being  preferable;  fry  browTn  or  a 
little  underdone,  according  to  taste,  and  as  the  bottom  will  be  the  most 
browned  when  served  turn  it  out  bottom  side  up  on  the  platter.  Gar- 
nish with  celery  top  around  the  edge  of  the  platter,  and  two  or  three 
slices  of  lemon  on  top  of  the  meat.  Some  make  it  into  small  flat  cakes 
or  balls  before  frying. — Burkey  6°  Milan,  154  and  136  S.  Clark  street, 
Chicago. 

132.  Hamburg  Steak — Mince,  but  not  too  fine,  some  round 
steak,  and  mix  with  it  an  onion  chopped  fine,  a  little  cayenne,  black 
pepper  and  salt.  (Some  add  a  little  currie  powder,  or  add  part  of  a 
red  pepper  pod,  if  desired  hot.)  When  well  mixed,  fry  in  a  little  lard  or 
clear  drippings;  when  well  done,  dish  on  a  small  platter,  and  set  in  the 
oven  long  enough  to  brown  over  the  top.  Garnish  with  small  sprigs 
of  celery  top. 


Xj.    ZE3I.    T"CTK.3iTEE/, 

Chicago  Straw  and  Felt  Works 

STRAW    BLEACHER, 

*70  STATE  STEEET,  CHICAGO. 

Reshaper  and  Finisher  of  all  kinds  of  ladies'  and  Gents'  Silk,  Felt,  Straw, 
Panama,  Leghorn  and  Neapolitan  Hats  and  Bonnets.  Gents'  Hats,  all  kinds, 
Retrimmed.    Fnr  Goods  and  Feathers  Redressed. 


THE       ZBIC3-   IFOTTIR,. 


PEERLESS  PAPILLON  REMEDIES 

Absolutely  Vegetable.    Recommended  by  the  Public.    Never  Failing.    Perfectly  Harmless. 


PAPILLON  DAPILL0N 

I  SKIN  CURE    rcOirGHCURE 


Is  a  specific  cure  for  Salt  Rheum,  Eczema,  Erysip- 
elas, Scrofula,  Scaldhead,  Tetter,  Hives,  Dandruff, 
Pimples,  Plant-Poisoning,  .Ringworm,  Sunburn, 
and  all  diseases  of  the  cutaneous  system,  by 
Exudation,  and  nob  by  Excretion,  whereby  every 
particle  of  disease  ia  withdrawn  from  the  system. 
Inordinate  itching  of  the  skin  is  allayed  at  once 
by  bathing  the  parts. 

For  Piles,  Wounds,  Cuts,  Ulcers  or  Sores,  no  re- 
medy ia  so  prompt  in  soothing  and  healing  as 
Papillon  Skin  Cure.    It  does  not  smart  or  burn. 

Directions  in  ten  languages  accompany  every 
bottle. 


Can  be  administered  to  infants  without  the 
slightest  daDger.  It  does  not  contain  drugs  or 
chemicals,  but  is  a  harmless  vegetable  syrup, 
very  delicious  to  the  taste,  that  relieves  and  posi- 
tively cures  WHOOPOTO  COUGH  at  once, 
and  is  a  permanent  cure  for  Bronchial  or  Winter 
Cough,  Bronchitis  and  Pulmonary  Catarrh. 

The  many  testimonials  received  by  us,  of  the 
efficacy  of  this  medicine,  almost  permits  us  to 
warrant  a  cure.  It  is  wonderful  how  promptly  it 
relieves. 

Directions  in  ten  languages  accompany  every 
bottle. 


DAPILLON 

[CATARRH  CURE 

Cures  all  .diseases  of  the  Nasal  Organs,  by  in- 
sufflation, injection  or  by  spraying,  in  children  or 
adults.  Cleanses  the  nostrils  and  permits  natu- 
ral breathing. 

It  ia  a  specific  cure  for  Cold  in  the  H<>ad — 
caused  by  sudden  changes  in  the  atmosphere- 
Snuffles,  Sneezing,  Watery  Eyes  and  pain  in  the 
Head. 

Bronchial  Catarrh,  A  cute  or  Chronic 
Catarrh,  also  Rose  Cold,  this  remedy  will  per- 
manently cure.  It  takes  the  front  rank  as  a  cure 
for  Hay  Fever,  as  many  testimonials  certify.  It 
has  been  used  several  years  successfully. 

The  application  of  this  medicine  is  soothing, 
not  irritating.  It  does  not  smart;  it  is  delight- 
ful to  use. 

Directions  In  ten  languages  accompany  every 
bottle. 


PAPILLON 

fBLOOD  CURE 

A  specific  cure  for  all  diseases  of  the  Blood,  Liver, 
Stomach,  Bowels  and  Kidneys.  This  medicine  ia 
absolutely  vegetable.  It  is  the  prescription  of  an 
eminent  physician,  who  has  used  it  in  his  special 
practice  for  thirty  years.  For  all  diseases  origi- 
nating in  impairment  of  the  blood,  as  Anaemia, 
Sick  Headache,  Nervousness,  Female  Weak- 
nesses, Liver  Complaint,  Dyspepsia,  Jaundice, 
Biliousness,  and  Kidney  diseases,  this  medicine  ia 
absolutely  sure.  This  medicine  does  not  contain 
any  mineral,  is  absolutely  vegetable,  restores  the 
blood  to  a  healthy  condition,  regulating  excesses 
and  supplying  deficiencies,  and  prevents  disease. 

Directions  in  ten  languages  accompany  every 
bottle. 


These  Goods  are  neatly  put  up  in  bottles  holding  ten  ounces  of  medicine,  incased  in  neat  cartoons, 
with  full  directions  in  ten  languages.  The  price  is  uniform  for  all,  one  dollar  per  bottle,  six  bottles  for  five 
dollars.    For  sale  by  all  Druggists.    PAPILLON  MANUFACTURING  COMPANY,  Proprietors. 
68  and  70  Wabash  Avenue,  CHICAGO. 


MUTTON  AND  LAMB. 


Note-^ -Mutton  should  be  quite  fat,  and  the  fat  clear,  hard  and 
white;  when  yellow  it  is  old,  and  should  be  rejected.  The  lean  of  fat 
mutton  will  be  juicy  and  tender,  and  is  of  a  deep  dark  red  color.  The 
longer  it  is  hung  before  cooking — provided  it  is  not  tainted — the  more 
tender  it  will  be;  and  if  washed  with  vinegar  every  day  and  then  thor- 
oughly dried  it  will  keep  a  long  time.  During  the  summer  months,  if 
rubbed  with  ground  pepper  and  ginger  it  will  keep  off  flies.  For  roasts, 
choose  the  shoulder,  loin  or  haunch,  for  boiling  the  leg,  and  the  small 
ribs  for  chops.  Cuts  from  the  round  of  the  leg  are  mutton  steaks,  not 
properly  chops,  though  so  termed  by  some.  They  are  usually  tough, 
and  inferior  to  rib  chops  for  broiling. 

133.  Boiled  Mutton  with  Caper  Sauce— Into  a  large  pot  of 
boiling  water  put  a  handful  of  salt.  Select  a  leg  of  mutton,  with  the  fat 
clear,  hard  and  white;  wash  it  and  rub  salt  into  every  part.  If  desired 
rare,  cook  two  hours;  if  well  done,  three  hours,  or  even  more,  according 
to  size.  Make  a  sauce  of  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  thickened  with  flour; 
add  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  two  tablespoons  capers;  small  chopped 
pickle  will  answer  the  place  of  capers,  if  not  convenient.  A  mint  sauce 
similar  to  that  served  with  roast  lamb  may  be  used,  if  preferred. 
Serve  boiled  mutton  with  hot  plates. 

134.  Leg  of  Mutton  a  la  Venison — Remove  all  the  rough 
fat  from  the  mutton  and  lay  it  in  a  deep  earthen  dish;  rub  into  it  thor- 
oughly the  following:  One  tablespoon  salt,  one  each  of  celery-salt,  brown 
sugar,  black  pepper,  English  mustard,  allspice,  and  some  sweet  herbs,  all 
powdered  and  mixed;  after  which  pour  over  it  slowly  a  teacup  good 
vinegar,  cover  tightly,  and  set  in  a  cool  place  four  or  five  days,  turning 
it  and  basting  often  with  the  liquid  each  day.  To  cook,  put  in  a  kettle 
a  quart  of  boiling  water,  place  over  it  an  inverted  shallow  pan,  and  on 
it  lay  the  meat  just  as  removed  from  the  pickle;  cover  the  kettle  tightly 
and  stew  four  hours.  Do  not  let  the  water  touch  the  meat.  Add  a 
cup  of  hot  water  to  the  pickle  remaining  and  baste  with  it.  When  done, 
thicken  the  liquid  with  flour  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  to  serve 
with  the  meat;  also  a  relish  of  currant  jelly,  the  same  as  for  venison. 

135.  Mutton  Chops,  Broiled — Select  good  fat  chops  from 
the  rack  of  the  fore-quarter;  cut  very  thick — to  obtain  which  cut  off 
two  ribs,  remove  the  bone  from  one  and  press  the  meat  closely  to  the 
other;  also  neatly  trim  off  the  meat  from  the  small  part  of  the  bone 
for  two  or  three  inches,  to  serve  as  a  handle.  Broil  over  a  brisk  char- 
coal or  coke  fire  upon  a  wire  gridiron,  turning  frequently  until  both 
sides  are  done  to  fancy.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  and  garnish  the  chops 
by  neatly  wrapping  around  the  handle  of  each  clear  white  paper,  and 
lay  a  sprig  of  fresh  celery-top  on  each  chop. 


34 

136.  Mutton  Chops,  Fried — Rub  them  with  salt  and  pepper, 
put  in  the  frying-pan,  cover  them,  and  fry  five  minutes,  turning  but 
once;  then  dip  them  in  well-beaten  egg,  and  then  in  fine  cracker  or 
bread  crumbs,  and  fry  until  tender  or  browned  nicely  on  each  side. 

137.  Mutton  Chops,  Fried— Put  them  in  a  dripping-pan  in' 
the  oven,  with  a  little  salted  water  and  pepper;  baste  frequently,  turn- 
ing them  until  brown. 

138.  Haricot  of  Mutton — If  you  have  left  part  of  a  leg  of  cold 
boiled  mutton,  saw  off  the  end  of  the  bone  from  which  the  meat  has 
been  cut,  so  as  to  leave  the  remainder  in  a  good  shape ;  put  both 
pieces  into  a  closely  covered  saucepan ;  cut  into  dice,  a  carrot,  turnip 
and  onion,  put  in  four  cloves  and  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  put  in  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  the  mutton,  and  simmer  gently  until  the  vegetables 
are  very  soft ;  then  take  out  the  meat  and  bone,  thicken  the  gravy  with 
two  teaspoons  flour  wet  in  cold  water.  Let  it  boil  up  after  the  meat  is 
removed,  and  turn  it  over  the  mutton. 

139.  Mutton  and  Rice — Mince  into  dice  pieces  of  cold 
mutton,  add  a  cup  of  cold  boiled  rice  to  one  of  meat ;  butter  a  sauce- 
pan well,  pour  in  a  little  water,  add  the  mutton  and  rice,  and  stir  until 
hot,  then  pour  in  two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  stir  until  they  are 
cooked  ;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

140.  Mutton  and  Tomato  Sauce— (See  Roast  Beef  and 
Tomato  Sauce,  No.  io8);  and  cook  cold  roast  or  boiled  mutton  as 
directed  for  beef. 

141.  Mutton  Pie  with  Tomatoes — Over  the  bottom  of  an 
earthen  baking-dish  place  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  and  over  it  alter- 
nate layers  of  cold  roast  mutton  cut  in  thin  slices,  and  tomatoes  peeled 
and  sliced,  season  each  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter,  as  laid  in. 
The  top  layer  should  be  of  tomatoes,  spread  over  with  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  and  serve  immediately. 

142.  Shepherd's  Pie — Spread  over  a  small  platter,  thoroughly 
buttered,  warm  mashed  potato,  mixed  with  enough  milk  to  make  it  a 
little  soft,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  When  stiffened  enough,  and 
as  brown  as  pie-crust,  pour  over  it  minced  cold  mutton  warmed  in  a 
little  thickened  gravy.     Is  a  fine  breakfast  dish. 

143.  Scrambled  Mutton — Two  cups  of  chopped  cold  mutton, 
two  tablespoons  hot  water,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  an  English 
walnut.  When  the  meat  is  hot,  break  in  three  eggs,  and  constantly  stir 
until  the  eggs  begin  to  stiffen.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

144.  Mutton  and  Potato  Pie — Mince  cold  mutton  with  a  very 
little  onion,  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  in  gravy  enough  to  make  it  quite 
moist;  also  a  few  capers.  Put  it  into  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  and 
spread  the  top  with  mashed  potato,  and  set  in  the  oven.  When  very 
hot,  rub  a  piece  of  butter  over  the  top,  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Note — Lamb  is  good  at  a  year  old,  and  is  then  known  as  "spring 
lamb  ";  early  in  the  season  is  rather  an  expensive  meat  in  most  locations, 
and  it  is  quite  inferior  to  good  mutton  in  nutriment,  or  for  digestion 


35 

The  meat  should  be  a  light  red,  and  fat.  If  the  fore-quarter  is  not 
fresh,  the  large  vein  will  be  greenish  instead  of  blue;  and  if  the  hind- 
quarter  is  stale,  the  kidney  fat  will  have  a  slight  smell. 

145.  Spring  Lamb  with  Mint  Sauce — Select  a  saddle  of  a 
lamb  at  least  a  year  old,  the  meat  a  light  red  and  fat.  Rub  well  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  roast  about  an  hour  and  a  half,  basting  frequently 
with  salted  water  and  the  drippings.  Serve  with  mint  sauce,  made  as 
follows:  Take  fresh  young  spear-mint  leaves  stripped  from  stems,  wash 
and  drain  them  or  dry  on  a  cloth,  chop  very  fine,  put  in  a  gravy  tureen, 
and  to  three  tablespoons  of  mint  add  two  of  finely-powdered  cut-loaf 
sugar;  mix  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  over  it  slowly  six 
tablespoons  good  cider  or  w7hite-wine  vinegar.  The  sauce  should  be 
made  some  time  before  dinner,  so  that  the  flavor  of  the  mint  may  be 
well  extracted. 

146.  Stewed  Lamb  with  Peas — Take  the  neck  or  breast, 
cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with  some  thinly-sliced  salt 
pork,  and  enough  water  to  cover  it ;  cover  closely  and  stew  until  ten- 
der, skim  off  all  scum,  and  add  a  quart  of  green  shelled  peas,  adding 
more  water  if  necessary;  cover  until  the  peas  are  cooked  tender,  and 
add  a  little  butter,  rolled  with  flour  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  let  it  simmer 
a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 

147.  Broiled  Breast  of  Lamb  with  Cream  Sauce — Remove 

the  neck,  shoulder  and  end  of  the  ribs,  for  an  inch  and  a  half,  from  a  fat 
young  spring  lamb.  Broil  over  a  brisk  charcoal  or  coke  fire,  frequently 
turning  until  done  as  desired,  place  on  a  hot  platter,  salt,  pepper  and 
butter  it.  Set  in  the  oven  while  making  a  sauce  as  follows :  Heat  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  small  saucepan,  add  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  and 
stir  until  perfectly  smooth  ;  then  add,  slowly  stirring  in,  a  cup  of  cold 
milk,  let  it  boil  up  once,  and  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
a  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  fresh  parsley.  Serve  in  a  gravy  boat,  all 
hot. 

148.  Broiled  Lamb  Chops — Have  them  fat  and  tender  from 
the  rack  of  the  forequarter,  trim  the  meat  off  the  small  end  of  the 
bone  about  an  inch,  as  a  handle,  broil  over  a  clear  fire,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  butter,  and  serve,  laying  them  one  over  the  other, 
with  a  slice  of  lemon  on  the  top  one.  Garnish  the  edge  of  the  platter 
with  slices  of  cucumber  and  beet  pickles,  alternately,  cut  in  triangles, 
the  points  outwards. 

149.  Lamb  Scallop — One  cup  each  of  cold  lamb  (chopped  fine), 
stewed  tomato,  and  fine  bread  crumbs.  Arrange  all  in  alternate  layers 
in  a  buttered  dish,  having  the  crumbs  at  top.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.     Put  bits  of  butter  on  the  top  and  bake. 

150.  Lamb  a  la  Matelot — Cut  rather  thick  slices  of  cold  lamb, 
beat  an  egg  and  lay  them  in  it;  lift  them  out  one  by  one;  drain  for  a 
moment,  and  then  cover  with  sifted  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper 
and  salt;  fry  in  hot  lard 


CO 


< 

X 

In 

Oh 


J 

J 


X 


H 

GO 

PQ 
w 

<j    * 

w 


■ 

0 
D 

ID 

ft 

hi 
H 

ft 


CD 
CO 

o 

+=> 

PI 

•r-i 

O 

4^ 
C 

cm 

io 

CM 

CO 
CM 


o 
o 
< 


o 


PORK. 


Note — Much  care  should  be  taken  in  the  selection  of  pork.  Both 
fat  and  lean  should  be  very  white,  and  the  skin  or  rind  both  smooth 
and  cool  to  the  hand. 

151.  Stuffed  and  Roasted  Pork — Take  a  small  loin,  three 
tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  one  finely-chopped  onion,  half  a  tea- 
spoon chopped  sage,  or  summer-savory  if  preferred,  the  same  of  salt 
and  same  of  pepper,  one  ounce  chopped  beef  suet,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  drippings.  Have  each  joint  of  the  loin  perfectly  separated  with  a 
cleaver,  to  carve  easily,  and  make  an  incision  with  a  knife  into  the  thick 
part  of  the  meat  in  which  to  place  the  stuffing,  which  prepare  as  follows: 
Mix  the  bread  crumbs  with  the  onions  thoroughly,  add  to  this  the  sage 
or  summer-savory,  pepper,  salt  and  suet ;  when  thoroughly  mixed  press 
into  the  incisions  made  in  the  pork,  and  sew  together  with  coarse  thread 
the  edges  of  the  meat  to  keep  in  the  stuffing;  grease  a  stiff  sheet  of 
paper  with  drippings,  place  the  loin  into  this,  securing  it  with  twine; 
bake  in  a  dry  baking-pan,  in  a  quick  oven,  basting  constantly  as  the 
grease  draws  out ;  allow  twenty  minutes  to  the  pound,  and  twenty 
minutes  over.  The  conventional  apple  sauce  may  be  varied  by  serving 
apple  fritters  (see  No.  92  or  93)  with  this  dish,  if  preferred. 

152.  Roast  Spare-rib — After  trimming  off  the  rough  ends, 
crack  the  ribs  through  the  middle,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  fold  over 
where  cracked,  and  stuff  same  as  roast  pork  (see  No.  151),  sew  up 
tighly,  put  in  the  'dripping-pan  with  a  pint  of  water,  with  which  baste 
frequently,  turning  once,  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  evenly,  until  a  rich 
brown. 

153.  Roast  Sucking  Pig — One  not  less  than  six  weeks  old, 
which  has  been  nicely  dressed  as  follows :  It  should  be  scored  across 
the  back  from  head  to  tail,  the  tail  run  under  the  near  scores,  the  ears 
sewed  together  by  the  tips  back  of  the  head,  the  knees  bent  and  run 
under  scores,  and  before  baking,  a  cracker  placed  into  its  mouth.  Rub 
lard  all  over  the  surface,  and  make  a  stuffiing  for  it  as  follows :  Take 
two  quarts  of  corn  meal,  salted  as  if  for  bread,  mix  to  a  stiff  dough 
with  hot  water,  put  into  pan  and  bake ;  after  it  is  done,  break  up  and 
add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  pepper  to  taste,  and  also  some 
thyme,  sweet  marjorum  or  sage,  as  fancied.  Fill  the  pig  with  the  stuff- 
ing until  round  and  plump,  and  sew  it  up  ;  place  it  on  its  knees  in  the 
pan,  which  fill  with  as  much  water  as  will  be  required  to  baste  it 
frequently  until  done.  Turn  while  roasting  the  same  as  a  turkey. 
Make  a  gravy  of  the  drippings  left  in  the  pan,  first  straining  through  a 
sieve  made  very  hot,  and  thicken  with  flour  or  corn-starch,  lastly 
adding  a  little  hot  water,  if  not  sufficient ;  also  sprinkle  in  a  tablespoon 
of  parsley,  finely  chopped,  and  a  teaspoon  of  summer  savory. 


3» 

154.  Fried  Pork  Steaks — Fry  like  beefsteaks,  with  pepper 
and  salt.  If  a  sausage  flavor  is  liked,  sprinkle  in  a  little  powdered  sage 
or  summer  savory. 

155.  Pork  Chops— Are  usually  fried,  but  if  broiled,  trim  off 
most  of  the  fat,  and  the  meat  for  three  inches  from  the  small  end,  neatly; 
cook  them  thoroughly  through,  turning  frequently;  put  on  a  hot  platter; 
salt,  pepper,  and  if  most  of  the  fat  has  been  removed,  butter  them. 
Garnish  the  platter  with  sprigs  of  parsley  around  the  edge. 

156.  Pork  Tenderloins — The  tenderloins  are  unlike  any  other 
part  of  the  pork  in  flavor.  They  may  be  either  fried  or  broiled;  the 
latter  being  dryer,  require  to  be  well  buttered  before  serving,  which 
should  be  done  on  a  hot  platter  before  the  butter  becomes  oily.  Fry 
them  in  a  little  lard,  turning  them  to  have  them  cooked  through;  when 
done,  remove,  and  keep  hot  while  making  a  gravy  by  dredging  a  little 
flour  into  the  hot  fat;  if  not  enough  add  a  little  butter  or  lard,  stir  until 
browned,  and  add  a  little  milk  or  cream,  stir  briskly,  and  pour  over  the 
dish.  A  little  Worcestershire  sauce  may  be  added  to  the  gravy  if 
desired.  ^ 

157.  Fried  Salt  Pork — Cut  in  thin  slices,  and  freshen  in  cold 
milk  or  milk  and  water,  roll  in  flour  and  fry  crisp.  If  required  quickly, 
pour  boiling  water  over  the  slices,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  drain  and 
roll  in  flour  as  before ;  drain  off  most  of  the  grease  from  the  frying- 
pan;  stir  in  while  hot  one  or  two  tablespoons  flour,  about  half  a  pint 
milk,  a  little  pepper,  and  salt  if  over  freshened ;  let  it  boil,  and  pour 
into  a  gravy  dish.  A  teaspoon  of  finely-chopped  parsley  will  add 
pleasantly  to  the  appearance  of  the  gravy. 

158.  Fried  Salt  Pork — Cook  same  as  directed  for  fried  tripe 
(No.  121). 

159.  Grilled  Salt  Pork — Take  quite  thin  slices  of  the  thick 
part  of  side  pork,  of  a  clear  white,  and  thinly  streaked  with  lean ;  hold 
one  on  a  toasting  fork  before  a  brisk  fire  to  grill ;'  have  at  hand  a  dish 
of  cold  water,  in  which  immerse  it  frequently  while  cooking,  to  remove 
the  superfluous  fat  and  render  it  more  delicate.  Put  each  slice  as 
cooked  in  a  warm  covered  pan ;  when  all  are  done  serve  hot. 

•  160.  Yankee  Pork  and  Beans — Pick  over  carefully  a  quart 
of  small  wThite  beans,  let  them  soak  over  night ;  in  the  morning  wash 
and  drain  in  another  water;  put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  half  a 
teaspoon  soda.  Boil  about  thirty  minutes ;  when  they  are  done,  the 
skin  of  a  bean  will  crack  if  taken  out  and  blown  upon.  Drain  and  put 
in  an  earthen  pot,  first  a  slice  of  pork  and  then  the  beans,  with  two 
or  three  tablespoons  molasses.  When  all  are  in,  put  in  the  center,  half 
to  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  well-washed  salt  pork,  with  the  rind 
uppermost,  and  scored  across  or  in  squares,  season  with  pepper,  and 
salt  if  needed,  cover  all  with  hot  water,  and  bake  six  hours  or  longer 
in  a  moderate  oven,  adding  hot  water  as  needed  by  evaporation,  to 
keep  them  moist.  They  cannot  be  baked  too  long  if  this  is  done. 
Keep  them  covered  so  they  will  not  burn  on  the  top,  but  remove  the 
cover  an  hour  or  so  before  serving,  to  brown  the  top  and  crisp  the  pork. 


39 


Note— The  best  hams  have  a  thin  skin,  with  solid  fat  and  a  small, 
short  tapering  leg  or  shank,  and  should  weigh  from  eight  to  fifteen 
pounds  PTesSt  thfm  by  running  a  steel  or  knife  along  ^  fleshy  stde 
dose  to  the  bone;  if  it  comes  out  clean  it  is  good,  if  smeared  it  is  tainted. 

161.  Boiled  Ham-Take  a  ham,  say  of  ten  to  twelve  pounds 
nour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  let  it  cool  enough  to  wash  and  scrape  it 
dean-  put  if  in  a  perfectly  clean  boiler,  with  cold  water  to  cover  it;  bring 
f  to  the  boi  ing  point,  when  place  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stove  or 
range  to  sSmefsfeadiiy  six  or  seven  hours,  or  nntil  it  is  tender,  when 
tested  with  a  fork.     Be  careful  to  keep  the  water  at  a  low  boiling  point 
and  do  not  allow  it  to  get  much  above  it.     If  not  suspended  in  the  pot 
—the  better  way— the  ham  should  be  turned  once  or  twice  m  the  water. 
When  done  pla'ce  in  a  large  pan  to  skin;  dip  the  hands  in  co  d ^ter 
take  the  skin  between  finger  and  thumb,  and  PuV°^Td™w.2d- 
knuckle.     Set  it  in  a  moderate  oven,  placing  the  lean  side  downward 
and  if  you  wish  it  breaded,  sift  over  it  powdered  crackers  and  bake 
one  hour.     Baking  brings  out  a  great  quantity  of  fat,_leaving  the  meat 
more  delicate,  anf  the  lam  will  keep  much  longer  in  warm  weaker 
If  before  it  is  used  there  is  a  tendency  to  mould,  set  it  in  the  oven 
again  for  a  short  time. 

162.  Broiled  Ham— Cut  the  ham  in  slices  of  medium  thick- 
ness place  on  a  hot  gridiron,  and  broil  until  the  fat  readdy  flows  out 
Td  'the  meat  is  slightly  browned;  take  it  from  the  gnduon  w.  h  a  knife 
and  fork,  and  drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  then  return  again  to  £e 
gridiron  repeat  several  times,  and  the  ham  is  done.  Place  on  a  hot 
clatter  spread  it  with  sufficient  butter,  and  serve  quickly.  If  the  ham 
&  too  fat  trim  off  a  part.  It  is  very  difficult  to  broil  ham  without  burn- 
ing the  fat,  but  this  does  not  impair  the  flavor.  Slices  of  salt-pork  or 
bacon  may  also  be  cooked  in  same  way. 

163.  Broiled  Ham-Shave  off  from  a  good  firm  ham  several 
slices  of  about  a  quarter  inch  in  thickness;  trim  off  nearly  all  the  fat 
around  the  edge;  put  it  on  a  wire  broiler  over  a  brisk  charcoal  or  coke 
fire,  and  cook  quickly;  closely  watch,  and  turn  the .gridiron .  whenev*  £ 
is  likely  to  burn.  If  cut  as  directed,  a  slice  will  be  cooked  in  three  to 
four  minutes,  when  place  it  in  a  hot  pan,  butter  it  and  cover  When 
all  are  done,  arrange  the  slices  neatly  upon  a  hot  platter,  and  serve 
quickly,  with  hot  plates. 

164.  Fried  Ham  and  Eggs-Place  the  slices  in  boiling  water 
and  cook  until  tender;  put  them  in  a  frying-pan  to  brown,  and  dish  on 
a  platter.    Fry  some  eggs  by  dipping  gravy  over  them  ^^d^f/ "^Jf^ 
of  turning.     Take  up  carefully  without  breaking,  and  lay  upon  the  slices 
of  hams. 


CO 
CD 


o 

9 

o 


w 

X 


CD 


09 

Pi 

CTJ       o 


o 
O 


CO 
CD 

bjO 


CD 


« 


ft 


< 


1 1 1 


a 


M 


o 


0 

b 

H 
A 

H 
H 


0 
O 

o 

o 

QQ 
-P 

<$ 

& 

•iH 

4-> 

0 

•H 

QQ 
0 

r 


■a 


05 

o 

0) 


H    H 

<D 
O 


a 

o 

c 

a. 


VEAL. 


Veal — The  veal  of  calves  from  four  to  six  weeks  old  is  the  best;  if 
younger  it  is  unwholesome,  and  if  older  it  is  apt  to  be  too  lean.  The 
meat  should  be  clear  and  firm,  and  the  fat  white.  If  dark  and  thin,  it 
is  not  good.  The  hind-quarter  is  the  choicest  joint,  and  is  divided  into 
the  loin  and  leg.  The  neck  or  fore-quarter  is  used  for  fricassees  and 
stews,  and  for  pies  or  chops. 

165.  Roast  Loin  of  Veal — Wash  and  rub  it  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  leaving  in  the  kidney,  around  which  put  considerable  salt. 
Roll  it  up  (the  ribs  having  been  well  cracked),  let  it  stand  two  hours, 
and  during  that  time  make  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs,  moistened 
with  a  little  hot  water  and  butter,  or  chopped  salt  pork  if  preferred, 
and  also  an  egg,  Unroll  the  loin,  put  the  stuffing  well  around  the 
kidney,  fold  and  secure  with  several  coils  white  cotton  twine  wound 
around  in  all  directions;  place  in  the  dripping  pan  with  the  thick  side 
down,  and  put  in  a  rather  hot  oven,  graduated  after  it  commences  to 
roast  to  moderate  ;  in  half  an  hour  add  a  little  hot  water  to  the  pan, 
and  baste  often;  in  another  half  hour  turn  over  the  roast,  and  when 
about  done,  dredge  lightly  with  flour  and  baste  with  melted  butter. 
Before  serving  carefully  remove  the  twine.  A  roast  of  four  to  five 
pounds  will  bake  in  about  two  hours.  For  a  gravy,  skim  off  some 
of  the  fat  if  there  is  too  much  in  the  drippings,  dredge  in  some 
flour,  stir  until  brown,  add  some  hot  water  if  necessary,  boil  a  few 
minutes,  stir  in  such  sweet  herbs  as  fancied,  and  put  in  a  gravy  boat. 
Serve  with  green  peas  and  lemon  jelly.  Is  very  nice  sliced  cold  for 
lunch,  and  Worcestershire  or  Chili  sauce  forms  a  fine  relish. 

166.  Gravy  for  Roast  Veal — Mix  one  dessertspoon  of  dry 
mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  a  quarter  ditto  of  pepper,  half  teaspoon 
celery-salt,  with  one  tablespoon  of  butter.  When  all  are  well  stirred 
together,  add  the  yelks  of  two  eggs;  beat  well  and  stir  into  a  cup  of 
hot  sweet  cream;  stir  all  together  over  a  tea-kettle  until  it  thickens 
like  a  custard,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  two  tablespoons  vinegar. 

167.  Roast  Veal  Pie — Cut  cold  roast  veal  into  slices,  with 
the  stuffing,  and  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  adding  pepper  and  salt;  dredge 
lightly  with  flour,  and  put  in  the  gravy  that  was  left  and  a  little  hot 
water  added  to  it.  A  dish  holding  three  pints  will  require  a  cup  of 
gravy.  Cover  the  top  with  a  crust  made  of  one  pint  flour  with  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  sifted  through  it,  add  a  piece  of  butter  half  the 
size  of  an  egg,  rubbing  into  the  flour  with  the  hand;  wet  with  sweet 
milk  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  When  made, 
score  the  crust  in  the  center;  put  it  over  the  dish,  and  bake  in  a  brisk 
oven.  Serve  in  the  dish  in  which  it  is  baked,  set  upon  a  round  soup 
or  cake  plate. 


4* 

168.  Veal  Cutlets-— Fry  the  cutlets  brown  in  sweet  lard  or  beef 
drippings;  dip  in  a  batter  made  of  half  a  pint  of  milk,  a  well-beaten 
egg  and  flour,  and  fry  again;  also  drop  spoonfuls  of  the  batter  in  the 
lard  after  the  veal  is  taken  up;  take  them  out  to  serve  on  top  of  the 
meat;  put  a  little  flour  paste  in  the  gravy  with  salt  and  pepper,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  whole.  The  veal  should  be  cut  thin, 
pounded,  and  cooked  nearly  an  hour. 

169.  Veal  Stew — Boil  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  the  breast  of 
veal  one  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover,  add  a  dozen  potatoes,  and 
cook  half  an  hour;  before  taking  off  the  stove  add  a  pint  of  milk  and 
flour  enough  to  thicken;  season  to  taste. 

170.  Ragout  of  Veal — Cut  cold  veal  cutlets  into  small  pieces; 
put  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  walnut  in  a  frying-pan,  and  when  hot, 
drop  in  the  veal  and  stir  a  few  minutes;  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  and 
then  pour  in  a  cup  of  stock  made  by  boiling  the  bone  and  dry  bits  of 
veal;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  boil  up;  then  add  four  cold, 
boiled  potatoes  cut  in  slices;  rub  the  platter  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  and 
pour  the  ragout  on  it. 

171.  Veal  Pot  Pie — Put  two  or  three  pounds  of  veal — that 
from  the  loin  or  breast  is  best,  but  other  parts  may  be  used — cut  in  a 
dozen  pieces,  and  put  into  a  quart  of  cold  water;  make  a  quart  of  soda 
biscuit  dough,  take  two  thirds  of  it,  roll  a  quarter  inch  thick;  cut  into 
strips  an  inch  wide  by  three  long;  pare  and  slice  six  potatoes;  boil  the 
veal  until  tender,  and  take  out  all  the  bone,  leaving  three  or  four  pieces, 
put  in  two  handsful  potatoes  and  several  strips  of  dough,  then  add  veal 
and  dough,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  butter,  until 
all  the  veal  is  in  the  pot;  add  boiling  water  enough  to  cover;  make  a 
crust  out  of  the  remaining  dough,  slit  the  center  to  let  steam  escape, 
and  place  over  the  whole.  Put  on  a  tight  lid  and  boil  gently  twenty 
or  thirty  minutes  without  uncovering. 

172.  Veal  with  Oysters — Cut  two  pounds  tender  veal  into 
thin  bits,  dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  in.  sufficient  hot  lard  to  prevent 
sticking.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  pint  and  a  half  fine  oysters;  thicken 
with  flour,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  until  done.  Serve  in 
a  covered  dish,  hot. 

173.  Veal  Toast — One  cup  chopped  veal,  one  cup  hot  water, 
a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  butternut,  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  pepper;  have  ready  on  a  platter  slices  of  bread  nicely 
toasted  brown,  and  buttered;  if  the  crusts  are  hard,  dip  the  edges  in 
hot  water;  when  the  minced  veal  is  quite  hot,  pour  it  on  the  toast. 

174.  Cold  Veal  and  Tomatoes — Arrange  delicate  slices  of 
cold  roast  veal  on  a  platter,  put  over  them  peeled  and  sliced  raw 
tomatoes,  and  pour  over  the  dish  a  salad  dressing  made  as  follows  : 
Rub  to  a  powder  with  a  silver  spoon  the  yelks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 

-add  half  a  teaspoon  salt  and  the  same  each  of  pepper,  white  sugar  and 
dry  English  mustard.     When  these  are  all  well  mixed  with  the  egg,  add 


43 

two  tablespoons  of  best  salad  oil,  stirring  in  gradually,  and  when  well 
mixed  put  in  half  a  cup  of  vinegar.  All  should  be  very  cold,  and  so 
kept  until  served. 

175.  Veal  Patties — Cut  portions  of  the  neck  or  breast  of  veal 
into  small  pieces,  and,  with  a  little  salt  pork  cut  fine,  stew  gently  for  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  small  piece  of 
celery  chopped  coarsely,  also  of  the  yellow  top,  picked  (not  chopped) 
up;  stir  in  a  paste  made  of  a  tablespoon  flour,  the  yelk  of  one  egg,  and 
milk  to  make  a  thin  batter;  let  all  come  to  a  boil,  and  it  is  ready  for  the 
patties.  Make  the  patties  of  a  light,  flaky  crust,  as  for  tarts;  cut  round, 
the  size  of  a  small  sauceplate;  the  center  of  each,  for  about  three  inches, 
cut  half  way  through,  to  be  raised  and  serve  as  a  cover.  Put  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  stew  in  each  crust,  lay  on  it  the  top,  and  serve.  Stewed 
oysters  or  lamb  may  be  used  in  place  of  veal. 

176.  Sweetbreads— There  are  two  in  a  calf,  which  are  con- 
sidered delicacies.  Select  the  largest.  The  color  should  be  clear  and  a 
shade  darker  than  the  fat.  Before  cooking  in  any  manner  let  them  lie 
for  half  an  hour  in  tepid  water ;  then  throw  into  hot  water  to  whiten 
and  harden,  after  which  draw  off  the  outer  casing,  remove  the  little 
pipes,  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  They  should  always  be  thoroughly 
cooked. 

177.  Broiled  Sweetbreads — After  preparing  as  above,  spread 
plenty  of  butter  over  them,  and  broil  on  a  fine  wire  gridiron  over  hot 
charcoals,  turning  often. 

178.  Fried  Sweetbreads — Parboil  five  minutes,  wipe  dry,  lard 
them  with  narrow  strips  of  fat  salt  pork  with  a  larding  needle,  taking 
deep,  long  stitches,  or  they  will  break  out.  Put  a  very  little  butter  or 
lard  in  a  frying-pan,  and  lay  in  the  sweetbreads  when  hot ;  fry  to  a 
crisp  brown,  turning  them  often. 

179.  Fricasseed  Sweetbreads — If  they  are  uncooked,  cut 
into  thin  slices,  let  them  simmer  in  a  rich  gravy  for  three-quarters  of 
an  hour,  add  a  well-beaten  egg,  two  tablespoons  cream  and  a  table- 
spoon chopped  parsley ;  stir  all  together  for  a  few  minutes  and  serve 
immediately. 

180.  Sweetbreads  with  Green  Peas — Lard  five  sweetbreads 
as  above  directed,  letting  the  strips  of  pork  project  half  an  inch  evenly 
on  the  upper  side,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  half  a  pint  water,  and  let 
stew  slowly  for  half  an  hour ;  take  out  and  put  in  a  small  dripping- 
pan,  with  a  little  butter  and  a  sprinkling  of  flour,  brown  slightly,  add 
half  a  gill  of  mingled  milk  and  water,  season  with  pepper ;  heat  a  half 
pint  cream  and  stir  it  in  the  gravy  in  the  pan.  Have  the  peas  ready 
boiled  and  seasoned,  place  the  sweetbreads  in  the  center  of  the  dish, 
pour  the  gravy  over  them,  and  put  the  peas  around  them. 


T.  H.  Marshall  &  Co. 


WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  DEALERS  IH 


Hard  and  Soft 

*COAl> 


MAIN     OFFICE: 


97  E.  Washington  Street, 


CHICAGO. 


TELEPHONE     No,     5039 


POULTRY  AND  GAME. 


181.  Baked  Chicken — Split  them  lengthwise,  soak  half  an  hour 
in  cold  water,  wipe  perfectly  dry,  and  put  in  a  dripping-pan,  bone  side 
down,  without  any  water;  if  the  oven  is  hot  and  the  chickens  young, 
should  be  done  in  half  an  hour.  Take  out  and  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter;  place  one  above  another  closely,  and  place  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  covering  them  closely  to  keep  them  moist  until  served;  mean- 
time boil  the  giblets  in  a  little  water,  and  after  the  chickens  are  taken 
out  of  the  dripping-pan,  pour  in  the  giblet  water;  thicken  it,  and  having 
chopped  the  giblets,  add  them  to  it,  making  the  gravy  to  serve  with 
chickens.     Is  fully  equal  to  broiled  chicken. 

182.  Baked  Chicken  with  Parsnips— Wash,  scrape  and 
quarter  a  few  parsnips;  parboil  for  twenty  minutes;  prepare  a  young 
chicken  by  splitting  open  at  back;  place  in  a  dripping-pan,  the  skin 
side  up,  lay  parsnips  around  the  chicken,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  an  egg-sized  lump  of  butter,  or  two  or  three  slices  nice  pickled 
pork;  put  enough  water  in  the  pan  to  prevent  burning,  place  in  oven 
and  bake  until  both  chickens  and  parsnips  are  done  a  delicate  brown. 
Serve  the  chicken  separately  on  a  platter,  pouring  the  gravy  in  the  pan 
over  the  parsnips. 

183.  Boiled  Chicken — A  pair  are  usually  boiled.  Dress  and 
truss  with  wooden  skewers,  or  tie  the  legs  with  twine;  stuff  with  a 
stuffing  made  of  bread  and  butter  moistened  with  milk,  flavor  with  a 
little  parsley  or  summer-savory;  suspend  them  in  a  pot  to  boil  an  hour, 
or  until  done.  Make  an  egg  sauce  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley  to 
serve  with  it.  Also  serve  a  slice  of  boiled  bacon,  ham  or  salt  pork  to 
each  plate  at  table. 

184.  To  Broil  Chicken  or  Quails — Cut  the  bird  open  in 
the  back;  lay  on  the  meat  board  until  it  will  lay  flat;  put  on  a  gridiron 
over  a  good  bed  of  coals,  and  broil  until  a  nice  brown,  but  do  not  burn. 
It  will  take  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  to  cook  thoroughly,  and  will  do  so 
much  better  if  covered  with  a  pie-tin  held  down  by  a  weight,  so  that  it 
will  lie  close  to  the  gridiron.  While  it  is  broiling,  put  the  giblets  in  a 
stewpan,  and  boil  in  a  pint  of  water  until  tender;  chop  fine,  and  add 
flour,  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  also  stir  in  a  cup  of  sweet  cream.  When 
done,  dip  birds  in  this  gravy,  and  let  boil  for  half  a  minute;  send  to 
table  quite  hot. 

185.  Fried  Spring  Chicken— Put  in  the  frying-pan  on  the 
stove  about  half  a  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  butter;  when  hot,  lay  in 
the  chicken  cut  open  on  the  back,  and  sprinkle  with  flour,  salt  and 
pepper;  cover  over  and  cook  over  a  moderate  fire;  when  a  light  brown 
turn  it  over  and  again  sprinkle  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper;  if  necessary 
add  more  lard  and  butter,  and  cook  slowly  until  done;  make  a  gravy 


46 

as  for  baked  chicken  in  No.  181;  or,  the  following  is  a  rich  and  very 
nice  gravy  without  cream:  Take  the  yelk  of  an  egg,  beat  up  light, 
strain  and  stir  slowly  into  the  gravy  after  the  flour  and  milk  have  been 
stirred  in  and  thoroughly  cooked;  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  it  is  done. 

186.  Fricasseed  Chicken — Cut  up  and  put  on  to  boil,  skin 
side  down,  in  a  small  quantity  of  water;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
also  slices  of  onion  if  liked;  stew  gently  until  tender;  remove  the 
chicken,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream  to  the  gravy;  thicken 
with  butter  and  flour  rubbed  smoothly  together  in  a  little  of  the  gravy; 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve.  A 
few  slices  of  clear  white  celery  from  the  bottom  of  the  stalk  may  be 
added,  if  that  flavor  is  liked. 

187.  Fricasseed  Chicken — Put  the  chicken  cut  up,  in  a  sauce 
pan  with  barely  enough  water  to  cover  it,  stew  gently  until  tender;  have 
a  frying-pan  prepared  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork;  drain  the  chicken  and 
fry  with  pork  until  a  rich  brown;  then  take  out  of  the  pan  and  put  in 
the  broth  in  which  the  chicken  was  stewed,  thicken  with  browned  flour 
mixed  smooth  with  a  little  water,  and  season  with  pepper.  Put  the 
chicken  and  pork  back  in  the  gravy,  let  it  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

188.  Chicken  Lunch  for  Traveling — Cut  a  young  chicken 
down  the  back;  wash  and  wipe  dry;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  put 
in  a  dripping-pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  three-quarters  of  an 
hour.  This  is  much  better  for  traveling  lunch  than  when  seasoned  with 
butter. 

189.  Chicken  Pie — Cut  up  two  young  chickens,  in  hot  water 
enough  to  cover  them,  and  as  the  water  boils  out  add  more,  so  as  to 
have  enough  for  the  pie,  and  also  for  a  gravy  to  serve  with  it;  boil  until 
tender;  line  the  sides  of  a  four  or  six-quart  pan  with  a  rich  baking 
powder  or  soda-biscuit  dough  a  quarter  inch  thick,  put  in  part  of  the 
chicken,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  lay  on  a  few  thin  strips  or 
squares  of  dough,  add  the  rest  of  the  chicken  and  season  as  before; 
five  or  six  fresh  eggs  beaten,  or  a  few  new  potatoes  in  their  season, 
may  be  also  added.  Take  the  liquor  in  which  the  chicken  was  boiled, 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  add  a  part  of  it  to  the  pie,  and  cover  with 
the  crust  rolled  a  quarter  inch  thick,  with  a  hole  in  the  center  the  size 
of  a  tea-cup.  Keep  adding  the  broth  as  needed,  and  plentiful,  as  there 
cannot  be  too  much  of  the  gravy.  Bake  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven.  If  the  flavor  of  celery  is  liked,  a  few  inside  layers  or  slices  of 
the  bottom  of  the  stalk  may  be  put  in  with  the  strips  of  dough.  In 
that  case,  garnish  the  top  of  the  pie  with  small,  bright  celery  leaves, 
neatly  arranged  in  a  circle. 

190.  Chicken  Pot  Pie— Take  two  young  chickens,  joint  and 
cut  up;  then  prepare  and  cook  as  directed  for  Veal  Pot  Pie.  See 
No.  171. 

191.  Chicken  Puree— Pick  into  small  bits,  cold  roast  or  boiled 
chicken;  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil  the  bones  and  skin  in 
enough  water  to  cover;  strain  and  return  to  the  fire.     When  it  boils> 


47 

stir  in  for  each  cupful  of  the  stock  a  small  teaspoon  flour  rubbed  in 
one  teaspoon  butter:  add  a  little  celery-salt,  and  stir  in  the  meat. 
Serve  with  small  triangles  of  bread  previously  fried  crisp  in  very  hot 
lard. 

192.  Salmi  of  Chicken — Cut  cold  chicken  into  small  bits,  and 
heat  in  enough  drawn  butter  to  make  it  quite  moist;  season  with  pepper 
and  celery-salt:  when  hot  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  well-beaten  egg  and 
a  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  covered  dish  with 
bread  crumbs  and  pour  in  the  chicken;  sift  crumbs  over  the  top,  stick 
bits  of  butter  over  it,  and  bake  until  brown.  The  gravy  left  from  the 
chicken  can  be  used  instead  of  the  drawn  butter  if  desired. 

193.  Chicken  and  Oyster  Croquettes— Take  one  cup  cold 
chicken  chopped  very  fine,  one  saucerful  of  cold  scalloped  oysters, 
also  chopped;  half  a  cup  sifted  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt  and  a  little 
mace,  one  egg  beaten  lightly;  add  a  little  broth  made  of  the  bones  of 
the  chicken,  boiled  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  them.  Have  the  mix- 
ture as  soft  as  can  be  handled  (an  experienced  cook  can  handle  it  much 
softer  than  a  novice).  Form  into  long  rolls  as  large  as  a  finger;  roll  in 
sifted  crumbs  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard.     Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

194.  Chicken  Salad  without  Celery — Cut  cold  chicken  in 
small  bits,  or  tear  it  into  shreds;  mix  with  it  an  equal  quantity  of  nice 
raw  cabbage  chopped  fine;  season  with  pepper  and  celery  salt.  Prepare 
a  dressing  by  beating  the  yelks  of  four  eggs;  add  to  these  half  a  cup 
butter,  half  a  cup  cream,  half  a  gill  vinegar,  and  one  heaping  spoon 
prepared  mustard;  put  this  mixture  into  a  bowl  over  a  tea-kettle,  or  in 
a  hot  pan  of  water;  stir  until  it  is  thicker  than  boiled  custard,  and  take 
from  the  fire.  Take  part  of  the  dressing  and  thin  it  with  vinegar  until 
it  can  be  easily  mixed  with  the  chicken  and  cabbage.  Pour  over  the 
top  the  remainder  of  the  dressing.  Some  like  a  little  sugar  in  the 
dressing. 

195.  Roast  Turkey  with  Oyster  Stuffing — Dress  and  rub 

the  turkey  well,  inside  and  out,  with  salt  and  pepper;  truss  or  twine  it; 
put  in  a  steamer  and  steam  two  hours,  or  until  it  begins  to  grow  tender, 
lifting  the  cover  occasionally  and  sprinkling  lightly  with  salt;  then  take 
out,  loosen  the  legs,  and  rub  the  inside  again  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Make  the  stuffing  as  follows:  Take  a  loaf  of  stale  bread,  cut  off  the  crust 
and  soften  it  in  a  pan  with  boiling  water;  drain  off  immediately  and 
cover  closely;  crumble  the  soft  part  of  the  bread  very  fine,  and  add  a 
half  pound  of  melted  butter,  or  more  if  to  be  very  rich,  and  a  teaspoon 
each  of  salt  and  pepper,  or  enough  to  season  rather  highly.  Drain  off 
the  liquor  from  a  quart  of  nice  oysters,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim  and  pour 
over  the  bread  crumbs,  adding  the  soaked  crust  and  one  or  two  eggs; 
mix  all  thoroughly  with  the  hands,  and  if  too  dry,  moisten  with  a  little 
milk;  lastly,  add  the  oysters,  being  careful  not  to  break  them;  or  first 
put  in  a  spoonful  of  stuffing  and  then  three  or  four  oysters,  and  so  on 
until  the  turkey  is  filled,  stuffing  the  breast  first.  Flour  a  small  cloth 
and  place  over  the  openings,  tying  down  with  twine;  spread  the  turkey 
all  over  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  place  in  a  dripping-pan  in  a  well 


48 

heated  oven;  add  half  a  pint  water,  and  roast  two  hours,  basting  often 
with  a  little  water,  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  kept  warm  in  tin  placed  on 
the  back  of  the  stove.  A  swab  is  better  than  a  spoon  to  baste  with. 
Turn  until  nicely  browned  on  all  sides,  and  about  half  an  hour  before  it 
is  done,  baste  with  butter  alone  and  dredge  with  a  little  flour,  which  will 
give  the  turkey  a  frothy  appearance.  When  the  turkey  is  dished,  if 
there  is  much  fat  in  the  pan,  pour  off  most  of  it  and  add  the  giblets, 
together  with  the  water  in  which  they  have  previously  been  cooked 
until  tender,  now  stewed  down  to  about  a  pint;  place  one  or  two  heap- 
ing tablespoons  flour  (half  of  it  browned  flour)  in  a  pint  bowl,  mix 
smooth  in  a  little  cream  or  milk,  and  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan;  boil 
several  minutes,  constantly  stirring  and  pour  into  a  gravy  tureen.  Serve 
with  currant  or  apple  jelly.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  cook  a  large 
turkey;  while,  from  being  steamed,  it  does  not  make  so  good  an  appear- 
ance at  table,  it  will  prove  very  tender  and  palatable. 

196.  Roast  Turkey,  English  Style — Kill  several  days  before 
cooking,  and  let  it  hang  by  the  legs  until  used.  Prepare  in  the  usual 
manner;  stuff  with  bread  crumbs — rejecting  the  crust — rubbed  fine, 
moistened  with  butter  and  two  eggs,  and  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper, 
parsley,  sage  and  sweet  marjoram;  sew  up,  truss  and  place  to  roast  in  a 
rack  within  a  dripping-pan;  spread  with  bits  of  butter,  turn  it  and  baste 
frequently  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  water;  a  few  minutes  before  it 
is  done  glaze  over  with  the  white  of  an  egg;  take  up  the  turkey,  pour 
off  most  of  the  fat,  add  the  chopped  giblets  and  the  water  in  which 
they  were  boiled,  which  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  rubbed  together; 
stir  all  in  the  dripping  pan,  let  it  boil  once  well,  and  serve  in  a  gravy 
boat.  Serve  with  celery-sauce  and  stewed  gooseberries.  Garnish  with 
fried  oysters.  Select  a  turkey  of  eight  to  ten  pounds.  If  in  roasting 
it  is  likely  to  brown  too  much,  cover  with  a  white  paper,  buttered. 

197.  Boned  Turkey — With  a  sharp  knife  slit  the  skin  down  the 
back,  and  raising  one  side  at  a  time  with  the  fingers,  separate  the  flesh 
from  the  bones  with  a  knife  until  the  wings  and  legs  are  reached. 
These  unjoint  from  the  body,  and  cutting  through  to  the  bone,  turn 
back  the  flesh  and  remove  the  bones.  When  the  bones  are  removed 
the  flesh  may  be  reshaped  by  stuffing.  Some  leave  the  bones  in  the 
wings  and  legs,  as  they  are  quite  difficult  to  remove.  Stuff  with  a  force- 
meat made  of  cold  lamb  or  veal,  and  a  little  pork  chopped  fine  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  sage  or  savory,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon; 
sew  into  shape,  turn  the  ends  of  the  wings  under,  and  press  the  legs 
close  to  the  back,  and  tie  all  firmly,  so  that  the  upper  surface  may  be 
plump  and  smooth  for  the  carver.  Lard  with  two  or  three  rows  on  the 
top;  bake  until  thoroughly  done,  basting  often  with  salt  and  water  and 
a  little  butter.  This  is  a  difficult  dish  to  attempt  by  any  but  skillful 
cooks.     Carve  across  in  slices,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

198.  Boiled  Turkey  Stuffed  with  Oysters— Wash  it  thor- 
oughly and  rub  salt  through  it;  fill  with  a  stuffing  of  bread  and  butter, 
moistened  with  milk  and  seasoned  with  sage,  salt  and  pepper,  mixed 
with  a  pint  raw  oysters;  tie  the  legs  and  wings  close  to  the  body,  place 
in  salted  boiling  water  with  the  breast  downward;  skim  often;   boil 


49     . 

about  two  hours,  but  not  till  the  skin  breaks;  serve  with  oyster  sauce. 
Boil  a  piece  of  nicely-pickled  salt  pork,  and  serve  at  table  a  thin  slice 
to  each  plate.     Some  use  bacon  or  ham  instead  of  pork. 

199.  Roast  Goose — The  goose  should  not  be  more  than  eight 
months  old,  and  the  fatter  the  more  tender  and  juicy  the  meat.  A  "  green 
goose,"  about  four  months  old,  is  the  choicest.  Kill  at  least  twenty- 
four  hours  before  cooking;  dress  and  stuff;  prepare  a  gravy  as  directed 
for  roast  duck,  tame  or  wild  (see  No.  212.)  Bake  two  hours  or  more. 
If  an  old  goose  it  will  have  red  and  hairy  legs,  and  should  be  par-boiled; 
if  too  old,  is  unfit  for  the  table. 

200.  Deviled  Goose — Take  the  legs  and  wings  of  cold  roast 
goose;  broil  them  on  a  gridiron  until  heated  through;  have  ready  a 
little  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  English  mustard,  and  one  tablespoon  sharp 
wine  or  cider  vinegar,  all  mixed  together.  Turn  this  over  the  goose 
and  serve  hot. 

201.  Roast  Duck— (See  Roast  Duck,  Tame  or  Wild,  No.  212.) 

202.  A  Stuffing  for  Ducks,  Chickens  or  Beef— Prepare 
some  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes,  as  if  for  the  table;  except  they  should 
be  rather  dryer,  stuff  the  chickens  (or  a  roast  of  beef)  with  this,  and 
bake  them  as  usual.  For  ducks  add  finely  chopped  onion.  If  a  bread 
dressing  is  also  desired,  it  may  be  cooked  in  the  corner  of  the  pan. 

203.  Boiled  Duck — Dress  and  rub  inside  with  salt  and  pepper; 
truss  and  tie  in  shape,  drawing  the  legs  into  the  body,  in  which  put  one 
or  two  leaves  of  sage,  a  little  finely-chopped  onion  and  a  little  jellied 
stock  or  gravy;  rub  over  with  salt  and  pepper;  make  a  paste  in  the  pro- 
portion of  one-half  pound  of  butter  to  one  pound  of  flour,  in  which 
enclose  the  duck;  tie  a  cloth  around  all,  and  boil  two  hours  or  until 
quite  tender,  keeping  it  well  covered  with  boiling  water.  Make  a  brown 
gravy,  as  follows:  Put  an  egg-sized  lump  of  butter  in  a  sauce-pan, 
with  a  little  minced  onion;  cook  until  slightly  brown,  and  add  a  small 
tablespoon  flour;  stir  well,  and  when  quite  brown  add  a  half  pint  of 
stock  or  water.  Let  cook  a  few  minutes,  strain  and  add  the  chopped 
giblets  which  have  been  previously  stewed  tender. 

204.  Duck  Pie — Cut  all  the  meat  from  cold  roast  ducks;  put 
the  bones  and  stuffing  into  cold  water;  cover  them  and  let  boil;  put  the 
meat  into  a  deep  dish,  pour  on  enough  of  the  stock  made  from  the  bones 
to  moisten;  cover  with  pastry  slit  in  the  center  with  a  knife  and  bake  a 
light  brown. 

205.  Deviled  Turkey — Cut  gashes  in  the  legs  and  upper 
joints  of  cold  roast  turkey,  and  rub  in  pepper,  salt  and  mustard  (some 
use  curry  powder  also);  heat  them  through  on  a  gridiron.  Serve  very 
hot. 

GAME. 

Note. — The  rule  for  cooking  is  for  all  white-meated  game  to  be 
cooked  well  done,  and  dark-meated,  under  done  or  rare.  The  general 
taste  will,  however,  require  all  to  be  well  cooked.  The  keeping  of  game 
hanging  for  some  time  will  make  it  more  tender,  and  bring  out  the 


5o 

flavor  so  highly  appreciated  by  the  epicure,  but  not  so  well  favored 
by  a  majority  of  the  community. 

206.  Venison — When  young,  the  fat  is  thick,  clear  and  close, 
and  the  meat  a  reddish  brown.  It  first  begins  to  taint  near  the  haunches; 
test  by  running  in  a  knife  or  steel;  if  tainted,  there  will  be  a  rank  smell 
and  a  greenish  appearance.  It  may,  however,  be  kept  a  long  time  by  the 
following  process:  Wash  it  well  in  milk  and  water,  and  dry  perfectly 
with  a  cloth;  then  dust  ground  black  pepper  over  every  part.  The  flesh 
of  the  doe  about  four  years  old  is  the  sweetest  and  best.  Either  the 
haunch,  neck,  shoulder  or  saddle  should  be  roasted,  the  breast  broiled, 
and  fry  or  broil  the  steaks  with  salt  pork.  Being  a  rather  lean  meat, 
roasts  require  much  larding.  The  steaks  require  more  cooking  than 
for  beef. 

207.  Saddle  of  Venison — Use  a  saddle  of  venison  of  about 
ten  pounds.  Cut  some  salt  pork  in  strips  about  two  inches  long 
and  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  with  which  lard  the  saddle,  with  two 
rows  on  each  side.  In  a  large  dripping-pan  cut  two  carrots,  one  onion, 
and  some  salt  pork  in  thin  slices;  add  two  bay  leaves,  two  cloves,  four 
kernels  of  allspice,  half  a  lemon,  sliced,  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper;  place  the  saddle  of  venison  in  the  pan,  with  a  quart  of  good 
stock  and  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  let  it  boil  about  fifteen  minutes 
on  top  of  the  stove;  then  put  it  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake,  basting  well 
every  five  minutes,  until  it  is  medium  rare,  so  that  the  blood  runs  when 
cut;  serve  with  jelly  or  a  wine  sauce.  If  the  venison  is  desired  well 
done,  cook  much  longer,  and  use  a  cream  sauce  with  it. — Grand  Pacific 
Hotel,  Chicago. 

208.  Roast  Haunch  of  Venison — Wash  in  warm  water  and 
dry  with  a  cloth;  butter  a  sheet  of  white  paper  and  put  over  the  fat; 
lay  it  in  a  deep  baking-dish,  with  a  very  little  hot  water;  cover  with  a 
close-fitting  lid  or  with  a  coarse  paste  half  an  inch  thick,  smeared  even- 
ly over  the  top;  if  the  latter  is  used,  lay  over  it  one  or  two  sheets  of 
coarse  paper.  Cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  three  to  four  hours,  ac- 
cording to  the  size  of  the  haunch;  about  twenty  minutes  before  it  is 
done  quicken  the  fire  a  little,  remove  the  dish  cover  (or  paper  and 
paste),  dredge  with  flour,  and  baste  well  with  butter  until  nicely  frothed 
and  of  a  delicate  brown;  garnish  the  knuckle  bone  with  a  frill  of  white 
paper,  and  serve  with  a  gravy  made  from  its  own  drippings,  the  platter 
and  plates  very  hot.  Currant  jelly  is  the  conventional  relish  with  roast 
venison. 

209.  Roast  Wild  Goose — As  a  rule  wild  geese  have  a  strong 
or  fishy  flavor,  and  are  inferior  to  wild  duck.  If  you  have  one,  how- 
ever, dress  and  cook  same  as  for  tame  roast  goose  (No.  199). 

210.  Wild  Ducks — There  are  many  varieties  of  ducks  peculiar 
to  different  sections,  of  which  the  canvas-back,  mallard,  teal,  and  at 
the  South  the  red-head,  are  leading  favorites.  Young  ducks  are  tender 
under  the  wings  and  have  transparent  webs;  wild  ducks  have  reddish 
legs,  and  tame  ones  yellow.     If  wild  ducks  are   fishy,  they  should  be 


5i 

scalded  in  salt  and  water  before  washing,  and  if  old,  they  should  be 
parboiled. 

212.  Roast  Duck  (Tame  or  Wild) — Cut  the  neck  close  to 
the  back,  beat  the  breast-bone  flat  with  a  rolling-pin,  tie  the  wings  and 
legs  securely,  and  stuff  with  the  following :  Three  pints  bread 
crumbs,  six  ounces  butter,  or  part  butter  and  salt  pork,  two  chopped 
onions  and  one  teaspoon  each  of  sage,  black  pepper  and  salt.  Do  not 
stuff  very  full,  and  sew  up  the  openings  firmly  to  keep  the  flavor  in  and 
the  fat  out.  If  not  fat  enough  it  should  be  larded  with  salt  pork  or  tie 
a  slice  upon  the  breast.  Place  in  a  baking-pan,  with  a  little  water,  and 
baste  frequently  with  salt  and  water  —  some  add  onion  and  some 
vinegar  —  turn  often,  so  that  the  sides  and  back  may  all  be  nicely 
browned.  When  nearly  done,  baste  with  butter  and  a  little  flour. 
These  directions  will  apply  to  tame  geese  as  well  as  ducks.  Young 
ducks  should  roast  from  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  and  full-grown 
ones  for  an  hour  or  more,  with  frequent  basting.  If  quite  old,  parboil 
a  few  minutes  before  roasting.  Some  prefer  them  underdone,  but 
served  very  hot;  but,  as  a  rule,  thorough  cooking  will  prove  more  palat- 
able.    Serve  with  currant  jelly  or  apple  sauce  and  green  peas. 

213.  Game  Pie — Family  Style  (For  io  persons) — Clean  well 
inside  and  out,  about  two  dozen  small  birds — quail,  snipe,  woodcock, 
etc. — and  split  them  in  half;  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  some  soup 
stock  or  beef  broth,  if  you  have  it;  if  not,  use  a  gallon  of  cold  water; 
put  over  a  hot  fire,  and  when  it  boils  skim  off  allscum  that  rises;  then 
add  a  little  salt,  pepper,  ground  cloves,  mace,  one  bay  leaf,  two  small 
carrots,  and  one  onion,  with  three  cloves  stuck  in  it.  Add  half  a  pound 
of  salt  pork  cut  into  dice,  and  let  all  boil  until  tender;  use  care  that  there 
be  enough  broth  to  cover  the  birds. 

Put  in  another  saucepan  a  quarter  pound  of  butter,  with  two  table- 
spoons browned  flour;  mix  it  well,  and  stir  it  into  a  part  of  the  broth 
or  gravy,  making  a  thin  sauce;  strain  off  the  rest  of  the  broth,  and 
remove  the  vegetables  and  spices,  which  add  to  the  sauce.  Cut  some 
potatoes  into  small  dice,  about  the  same  quantity  as  meat,  and  put  all 
into  a  deep  dish  or  bowl;  cover  with  a  paste  or  dough,  and  bake  slowly. 
The  baking  may  be  done  in  small  vegetable  dishes,  forming  a  pie  for 
each  person. — Grand  Pacific  Hotel,  Chicago. 

214.  Roast  Prairie  Chicken  or  Pheasant—Carefully  cut  out 
all  the  shot,  wash  thoroughly  but  quickly,  using  some  soda  in  the  water, 
rinse  and  dry ;  stuff,  sew  up  and  tie  down,  or  skewer  through 
the  legs  and  wings.  Place  in  a  steamer  over  hot  water  until  tender, 
then  remove  to  a  dripping-pan,  cover  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dredge  with  flour,  place  in  the  oven,  and  baste  with  melted  but- 
ter until  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with  either  apple-sauce,  cranberries  or 
currant  jelly. 

215.  Broiled  Pheasant  or  Prairie  Chicken — Scald  and  skin, 
cut  off  the  breast,  and  the  rest  up  in  joints,  being  careful  to  remove  all 
shot;  put  in  hot  water,  all  except  the  breast,  and  boil  until  it  can  be 


52 

easily  pierced  with  a  fork;  take  out,  rub  over  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter, 
and  broil  with  the  breast  over  a  brisk  fire;  take  out,  place  a  lump  of  but- 
ter on  each  piece,  and  set  all  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes. 

Squirrels  may  be  prepared  in  this  manner,  but  with  no  separation 
of  the  meat. 

216.  Roast  Quails — Pluck  and  dress  like  chicken,  wipe  clean, 
and  rub  both  inside  and  out  with  salt  and  pepper;  stuff  with  any  of 
the  stuffings  fancied  for  poultry  or  game,  and  sew  up ;  spread 
them  with  butter,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  with  a  good,  steady 
heat,  turning  and  basting  often  with  hot  salted  water,  butter  and  pepper. 
Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  When  about  half  done,  add  a  little  hot 
water  to  the  pan,  and  also  place  another  dripping-pan  over  them  to 
prevent  browning  too  much;  add  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan  flour  and 
butter  rubbed  together,  and  water  if  needed. 

217.  Quail  on  Toast — Dry,  pick  and  singe  them  with  paper; 
cut  off  the  head,  and  the  legs  at  first  joint;  draw  and  split  them  down 
the  back;  sOak  in  salted  water  for  five  or  ten  minutes;  drain  and  dry  with 
a  cloth;  lard  them  with  bacon  or  butter,  and  rub  salt  over  them;  place 
on  a  broiler  and  turn  often,  dipping  two  or  three  times  into  melted 
butter;  broil  about  twenty  minutes.  Have  ready  as  many  slices  of 
nicely  buttered  toast  as  there  are  birds,  and  place  one  on  each  slice, 
breast  upwards.     All  should  go  to  table  hot' and  with  hot  plates. 

218.  Reed  Birds — Roast  before  an  open  fire,  suspended  by  a 
wire  or  string,  and  kept  turning  (or,  put  in  a  row  on  a  skewer  and  use 
an  English  bottle-jack),  let  drip  in  a  pan,  basting.  This  is  the  Southern 
method  and  the  best.    Or,  they  may  be  boiled  in  a  crust  like  dumplings. 

219.  Reed  Birds  Au  Pomme  de  Terre — Wash  and  peel  very 
thinly  quite  large  potatoes  of  equal  size;  cut  a  deep  slice  off  one  end  of 
each,  and  scoop  out  a  hole  large  enough  to  contain  a  bird;  drop  a  bit  of 
butter  into  each  bird,  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  one  into  the  hole  of 
each  potato,  putting  on  as  covers  the  slices  cut  off;  clip  off  the  other 
end  so  they  will  stand  upright.  When  so  arranged  set  in  a  baking  pan 
with  a  little  water  to  prevent  burning;  bake  slowly  and  serve  in  the 
same  dish. 

220.  Snipe — Are  best  roasted  with  a  piece  of  salt  pork  tied 
on  to  the  breast;  or,  they  may  be  stuffed  and  baked  like  quail;  or, 
broiled  same  as  woodcock. 

221.  Woodcock — Of  all  game  birds  this  outranks  in  tender- 
ness and  delicacy  of  flavor,  the  thigh  being  the  tidbit. 

To  Broil — Split  them  through  the  back,  basting  with  butter,  and 
serve  on  toast,  the  beak  under  the  wing. 

To  Roast — Split  them,  place  in  a  Dutch  oven  before  an  open  fire,  and 
bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  as  fancied,  under  or  well  done. 

*  222.  Fried  Woodcock — Dress,  wipe  clean;  tie  the  legs;  skin 
the  head  and  neck;  turn  the  beak  under  the  wing  and  tie  it;  tie  a 
piece  of  bacon  over  it,  and  immerse  in  boiling  fat  two  or  three  minutes. 
Serve  on  browned  toast,  nicely  trimmed  and  buttered. 


53 

223.  Squirrels — There  are  many  species  common  to  this  country, 
among  them  the  black,  red,  gray  and  fox.  Gophers  and  chipmunks  may 
also  be  classed  as  another,  but  smaller  variety.  They  should  be  carefully 
skinned  and  laid  in  salt  water  a  short  time  before  cooking;  if  old,  should 
be  parboiled.  They  are  fine  when  broiled,  the  hind  quarters  being  the 
choicest  parts,  unless  when  in  the  fall  they  are  fat  and  full  breasted. 
Are  excellent  cooked  in  any  other  way,  with  thin  slices  of  pork.  They 
are  also  delicious  when  made  into  a  pie,  like  Veal  or  Chicken. 

224.  Rabbits — They  are  in  the  best  condition  in  mid-winter, 
and  may  be  fricasseed,  like  chicken,  in  white  or  brov/n  sauce,  or  made 
like  a  chicken  pie. 

225.  Roast  Rabbits— Stuff  with  a  stuffing  made  of  bread 
crumbs,  chopped  salt  pork,  thyme,  onion,  pepper  and  salt;  sew  up;  rub 
over  with  a  little  butter,  or  secure  in  it  a  few  slices  salt  pork;  add  some 
water  in  the  pan,  and  baste  often.  Serve  mashed  potatoes  and  currant 
jelly  with  it. 

226#  Pigeons — Should  be  cooked  a  long  time,  as  they  are  usually 
quite  lean  and  tough,  except  the  squabs  or  young  ones,  and  are  better  to 
lie  in  salt  water  half  an  hour  before  cooking;  if  old,  parboil.  Are 
nice  roasted,  or  made  into  a  pie,  or  the  breast  broiled. 

327.  Pigeon  Pot  Pie — Prepare  and  cook  same  as  Veal 
Poi-pie.     See  No.  171. 

228.  Compote  of  Pigeons  (For  10  persons)— Use  one  dozen 
dressed  pigeons.  Cut  up  some  vegetables  very  thin,  and  put  in  a  roast- 
ing pan  with  thih  rashers  of  salt  pork  and  some  spices;  lay  in  the  pigeons, 
breast  upwards,  and  sprinkle  them  with  salt  and  pepper;  bake  in  a  hot 
oven,  turning  them  over  once  or  twice,  until  a  nice  brown;  dredge 
with  a  little  flour,  and  brown  again.  Remove  the  pigeons  to  a  stewpan, 
and  strain  the  gravy,  to  add  to  the  pigeons;  if  not  sufficient,  use  some 
beef  broth,  to  make  enough  to  cover  them,  and  cook  until  done;  then 
cut  some  salt  pork  in  small  strips,  fry  them  well  in  a  pan,  and  drain  off 
the  fat;  add  the  pork  to  the  pigeons,  and  serve  on  toast. — Grand  Pacific 
Hotel,  Chicago. 

229.  Broiled  Plover — Split  through  the  back  and  broil  over  a 
hot  fire,  basting  frequently  with  butter.  When  done,  place  a  bit  of 
butter  on  each  piece,  and  set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 
Serve  on  pieces  of  buttered  toast,  with  currant  jelly. 

A  Hint  to  Sportsmen. — To  those  who  may  wish  to  keep^  prairie  chickens, 
pheasants  or  other  game  birds  in  very  hot  weather,  or  to  ship  long  distances, 
it  may  prove  of  value  to  learn  the  best  manner  of  doing  so.  Draw  the  birds 
as  soon  as  killed  ;  force  down  the  throat  two  or  three  whole  peppers,  tying  a 
string  around  just  above  them  ;  sprinkle  inside  a  little  powdered  charcoal,  and 
fill  the  cavity  of  the  body  with  very  dry  grass — green  or  wet  grass,  being  heating, 
will  hasten  decay.  If  birds  are  to  be  shipped  without  drawing,  force  a  piece 
of  charcoal  into  the  vent,  tie  a  string  close  around  the  neck  to  exclude  the  air, 
and  make  a  loop  in  the  string  to  hang  up  by.  Thus  prepared,  will  bear  ship- 
ment a  long  distance. 


THE 


Heath  &  Milligan 

"Best"  Prepared  Paints 

(READY    FOR.    USE). 


The  subject  of  successfully  ornamenting  our  houses  by  using 
divers  cofored  paints  on  the  same  building  having  during  the  past 
three  years  become  a  study,  we,  in  order  to  meet  the  demand, 
have  added  to  our  "BEST"  PREPARED  PAINTS  one  tint  after 
another,  until  now  we  manufacture  seventy-five  distinct,  beau- 
tiful, rich  and  attractive  shades.  This  spring  we  have  brought 
out  some  rare  tints  which  are  very  fashionable,  and  which 
are  exceedingly  tasty  and  pleasing.  From  this  variety  of  tints 
one  cannot  fail  to  make  a  suitable  and  satisfactory  selection,  and 
to  be  able  to  make  an  almost  endless  number  of  effective  and  har- 
monious combinations.  As  to  the  quality  of  our  goods,  we  would 
say  they  are  made  from  pure  material,  and  we  guarantee  them  to 
cover  as  much  surface  as  Strictly  Pure  White  Lead  and  Linseed 
Oil;  to  impart  a  much  finer  and  more  beautiful  finish,  and  to 
greatly  surpass  it  in  durability.  They  wear  without  cracking, 
chalking  or  peeling  off,  and  weather  exposure  has  but  little  effect 
upon  them.  They  give  universal  satisfaction,  and  are  commended 
by  all  who  have  used  them. 


Ask  your  Local  Dealers  for  Sample  Cards,  and  Prices.  Should  they  not  have 
them  at  hand,  do  not  "be  put  off  with  any  substitute,  but  persuade  your  Merchant 
to  send  for  what  you  want ;  failing-  in  this,  direct  Communication  with  our  House 
will  insure  a  prompt  response. 


HEATH  &  MILLIGAN  MFG.  CO, 

170-174  Randolph  St.,  Chicago,  111. 


FISH. 


Note, — When  fish  are  fresh,  the  eyes  are  full  and  bright,  the  gills  a 
fine,  clear  red,  the  body  stiff,  and  the  smell  not  unpleasant.  The  flavor 
and  excellence  of  salmon  is  especially  dependent  on  its  freshness: 
Mackerel  should  be  freshly  caught,  or  are  nearly  worthless.  Nearly  all 
the  larger  fish  are  usually  boiled,  the  medium-sized  baked  or  boiled, 
and  smaller  kinds  fried.  The  very  large  ones,  as  cod,  halibut,  etc.,  are 
cut  in  steaks  or  slices  for  frying  or  broiling.  The  heads  of  some  fish, 
as  the  cod,  halibut,  etc.  are  considered  tidbits  by  many.  Brook- 
trout  and  smelts  should  be  served  with  the  heads,  and  most  other  pan- 
fish,  without.  As  regards  others,  the  heads  are  cooked  and  served 
simply  for  appearance,  it  being  a  matter  of  fancy  whether  they  are 
served  or  not.  Fish  is  less  nutritious  than  meats,  salmon  excepted, 
which  is  very  hearty.  The  white  kinds  are  least  nutritious,  and  the 
oily  kinds  the  more  difficult  of  digestion.  All  fish  should  be  well  done 
and  served  quite  hot. 

230.  Boiled  Fish—  General  Directions— ¥  or  this  purpose  a 
regular  fish-kettle  is  very  convenient.  It  is  of  oblong  form,  occupying 
the  place  of  two  holes  on  a  stove  or  range,  and  contains  a  perforated 
tin  rack  (5r  plate,  with  a  long  handle  at  each  end,  and  resting  on  the  feet 
a  few  inches  above  the  bottom.  On  this  the  fish  rests  when  boiling,  and 
upon  which  it  is  lifted  out  when  done,  to  avoid  breaking.  In  lieu  of  a  fish 
kettle,  wrap  the  fish  in  a  cloth,  with  which  it  maybe  gently  lifted  from  the 
kettle  when  done.  Steaming  fish  is  far  superior  to  boiling,  in  which  case 
a  rack  similar  to  the  one  above  described  may  be  fitted  to  an  ordinary 
wash  boiler;  have  the  holes  the  size  of  a  five-cent  piece.  In  boiling,  the 
addition  of  salt  and  vinegar  to  the  water  pleasantly  seasons  the  fish,  and 
hardens  the  water,  so  that  less  of  the  nutriment  is  extracted.  Always 
have  the  water  boiling  hot  when  first  put  in,  and  then  set  where  it  will 
simmer  gently  until  done;  the  rule  is  to  allow  five  to  ten  minutes  to  the 
pound,  according  to  thickness.  In  boiling  salmon,  put  into  tepid  water 
only,  in  order  to  preserve  its  fine  color,  increasing  it  to  the  boiling  point, 
and  then  boil  gently  until  done.  To  test,  pass  a  knife  along  a  bone, 
and  if  done,  it  will  separate  readily.  Do  not  prod  it  with  a  fork.  All 
fish  should  be  boiled,  steamed  or  baked  in  the  position,  as  nearly  as 
possible,  that  it  assumes  when  in  the  water.  To  effect  this,  place  the 
fish  on  its  belly,  and  bend  the  head  and  tail  in  opposite  directions, 
thus,  (S).  To  keep  it  in  position,  tie  a  stout  cord  around  the  tail,  pass 
it  through  the  body,  and  tie  to  the  head.  %  % 

)  Fill  the  fish  with  a  nicely  prepared  stuffing  of  rolled  cracker  or 
stale  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  butter,  pepper,  salt,  sage,  and 
any  other  aromatic  herbs  fancied;  sew  up;  wrap  in  a  well  floured  cloth 
tied  closely  with  twine,  and  boil  or  steam.  The  garnishes  for  boiled 
fish  are:    For  turbot,  fried  smelts;  for  other  boiled  fish,  parsley,  sliced 


56 

beets,  lobster  coral,  or  sliced  boiled  egg.  Do  not  use  the  knives,  spoons, 
etc.,  that  are  used  in  cooking  fish,  for  other  food,  or  they  will  be  apt  to 
impart  a  fishy  flavor. 

231.  Steamed  Fish — Secure  the  tail  of  the  fish  in  its  mouth, 
the  body  in  a  circle;  pour  over  it  half  a  pint  of  vinegar,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt;  let  it  stand  an  hour  in  a  cool  place;  pour  off  the  vine- 
gar, and  put  it  in  a  steamer  over  boiling  water,  and  steam  twenty  minutes, 
or  longer  for  large  fish.  When  the  meat  easily  separates  from  the  bone 
it  is  done.  Drain  well,  and  serve  on  a  very  clean  white  napkin,  neatly 
folded  and  placed  on  the  platter;  decorate  the  napkin  around  the  fish 
with  sprigs  of  curled  parsley,  or  with  fanciful  beet  cuttings,  or  alter- 
nately with  both. 

232.  Boiled  Fresh  Cod — Put  the  fish  in  a  fish-kettle,  or  pro- 
ceed as  above,  and  place  in  boiling  water  with  some  salt  and  scraped 
horse-radish;  let  it  simmer  until  done.  Place  a  folded  napkin  on  a 
platter,  turn  the  fish  upon  it,  and  serve  with  drawn  butter,  oyster  or 
egg  sauce. 

233.  Boiled  Codfish — Soak  in  a  pan  of  water"  over  night,  and 
simmer  two  or  three  hours,  or  until  well  done.  Serve  with  drawn 
butter,  with  hard  boiled  egg  chopped  fine  and  stirred  in;  also  garnish 
the  fish  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  egg  laid  on  it  or  around  the  edge. 

234.  Broiled  Codfish — Fresh  codfish  steaks  are  excellent 
broiled.  After  soaking  sufficiently,  grease  the  bars  of  the  gridiron, 
broil  well,  but  do  not  burn.  Serve  with  bits  of  butter  dropped  over  it, 
and  garnish  with  fanciful  pieces  of  sliced  pickled  beet,  drained,  and 
placed  around  the  edge  of  the  platter. 

235.  Codfish  a  la  Mode — Pick  up  a  teacup  of  salt  codfish 
very  fine,  and  freshen- — the  desiccated  is  nice  to  use — two  cups  mashed 
potatoes,  one  pint  cream  or  milk,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  half  a  cup 
butter,  salt  and  pepper;  mix;  bake  in  an  earthen  baking  dish  from 
twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes;  serve  in  same  dish,  placed  on  a  small 
platter,  covered  with  a  fine  napkin. 

236.  Stewed  Codfish — Select  a  thick  and  very  white  codfish, 
or  use  the  desiccated;  pick  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in  cold  water  to 
freshen;  if  desired  soon,  pour  off  and  change  the  water  frequently,  but 
be  sure  and  not  get  it  too  fresh.  When  properly  freshened,  put  it  in  a 
stewpan,  with  one  to  three  cups  of  warm  water,  according  to  quantity; 
let  it  stew  slowly,  and  not  boil,  for  half  an  hour;  then  add  a  c^p  of 
milk  thickened  with  flour,  stew  ten  minutes  longer,  and  just  before 
serving,  stir  in  one  or  two  well  beaten  eggs.  A  nice  breakfast  dish 
with  hot  baked  potatoes. 

237.  Picked  Codfish — Pick  the  fish  in  fine  pieces,  and  soak 
in  cold  water  until  sufficiently  freshened;  then  drain  it  well,  and  add 
milk  enough  to  cover  it.  When  well  scalded,  thicken  with  flour  or  corn- 
starch; season  with  pepper.  When  taken  from  the  fire,  add  two  eggs, 
well  beaten,  make  a  nice  moist  paste,  and  pour  the  fish  over  it,  or  serve 
plain  if  preferred. 


57 

338.  Minced  Cod— Flake  up  cold  baked  or  boiled  cod,  and  to 
three  cups  of  fish  add  one  of  mashed  potatoes,  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  filbert,  half  a  teaspoon  corn-starch,  and  one  beaten  egg;  heat 
all  together,  adding  the  egg  last. 

239.  Cod  au  Fromage— Of  cold  boiled  macaroni,  cut  up  in 
short  bits,  take  a  cupful,  and  one  of  cold  boiled  cod;  mix  together;  put 
it  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  lay  bits  of  butter  over  it;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  moisten  with  cold  drawn  butter,  if  you  have  it;  if  not,  use 
milk;  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  sprinkle  two  tablespoons  grated 
cheese  on  top;  bake  until  brown,  and  serve  in  the  bakmg-di-sh. 

240.  Codfish  Balls— Soak  codfish,  cut  in  small  pieces,  about 
an  hour  in  lukewarm  water;  remove  the  skin  and  bones;  pick  up 
very  fine;  put  it  in  cold  water  and  place  on  the  stove;  when  it  boils, 
change  the  water  and  let  boil  again.  Have  ready  some  boiled  potatoes 
mash  and  season  with  butter.  While  both  are  hot,  put  half  the  codfish 
with  the  potatoes;  mix  in  a  well  beaten  egg,  and  mould  into  round 
balls  or  thick  cakes;  then  fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  drippings,  or  drop 
them,  like  doughnuts,  in  hot  fat  enough  to  float,  and  skim  out.  By 
reheating  them,  cold  potatoes  may  be  used,  in  which  case  add  a  little 
cream,  or  milk  and  butter,  and  mix  while  hot. 

241.  Baked  Salmon,  Trout  or  Pickerel— Carefully  clean 
and  wipe  the  fish,  and  lay  in  a  dripping-pan,  with  enough  hot  water 
to  prevent  scorching.  A  perforated  sheet  of  tin,  fitting  loosely,  or 
several  muffin  rings,  maybe  used  to  keep  it  off  the  bottom.  Lay  it 
in  a  circle  on  its  belly,  head  and  tair  touching,  and  tied,  or  as  directed 
in  note  on  fish, bake  slowly,  basting  often  with  butter  and  water.  When 
done,  have  ready  a  cup  of  sweet  cream  to  which  a  few  spoons  ot 
hot  water  have  been  added;  stir  in  two  large  spoons  of  melted  but- 
ter and  a  little  chopped  parsley;  heat  all  by  setting  the  cup  in  boiling 
water;  add  the  gravy  from  the  dripping-pan,  and  let  boil  up  once; 
place  the  fish  in  a  hot  dish,  and  pour  over  it  the  sauce.  Or  an  egg 
sauce  may  be  made  with  drawn  butter;  stir  in  the  yelk  of  an  egg  quickly, 
and  then  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

242.  Baked  White  Fish  or  Shad— Thoroughly  clean  the 
fish;  cut  off  the  head,  or  not,  as  preferred;  cut  out  the  backbone  from 
the  head  to  within  two  inches  of  the  tail,  and  stuff  with  the  following: 
Soak  stale  bread  in  water,  squeeze  dry;  cut  in  pieces  a  large  onion, 
fry  in  butter,  chop  fine;  add  the  bread,  two  ounces  of  butter,  salt, 
pepper  and  a  little  parsley  or  sage;  heat  through,  and  when  taken 
off  the  fire,  add  the  yelks  of  two  well  beaten  eggs;  stuff  the  fish 
rather  full,  sew  up  with  fine  twine,  and  wrap  with  several  coils  of 
white  tape.  Rub  the  fish  over  slightly  with  butter;  just  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  baking-pan  with  hot  water,  and  place  the  fish  in  it, 
standing  back  upward,  and  bent  in  the  form  of  an  S.  Serve  with  the 
following  dressing:  ^'Reduce  the  yelks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  two  tablespoons  good  salad  oil  ;  stir  in  half  a 
teaspoon  English  mustard,  and  add  pepper  and  vinegar  to  taste. 


58 

243.  Boiled  White  Fish— Cover  in  a  fish-kettle  or  tie  up  in 
a  cloth,  and  suspend  'in  boiling  water  sufficient  to  cover  it  Let  it 
simmer,  allowing  from  eight  to  ten  minutes  to  the  pound;  remove  the 
scum  as  it  rises;  when  about  half  done,  add  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon  juice- 
take  out,  drain,  and  dish  carefully  without  breaking;  pour  over  it  drawn 
butter,  and  sprinkle  with  fine  green  parsley,  or  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  serve  an  egg  sauce  with  it.  Lake  or  Mackinac  trout  may 
also  be  cooked  in  same  manner. 

244.  Broiled  White  Fish  or  Shad— Of  the  two  fish  the 
former  is  preferable,  not  only  for  its  flavor,  but  on  account  of  the  great 
number  of  fine  bones  in  the  shad.  Clean,  and  in  case  a  white  fish  is 
used,  split  down  the  back;  if  a  shad,  split  open  in  front,  and  also  make 
a  slit  along  the  backbone,  so  it  will  lie  flat  to  broil.  Put  the  fish  first 
inside  down  on  the  gridiron— well  greased— and  when  nicely  brown 
turn  carefully  over  so  as  not  to  break  the  skin.  For  this  purpose  use  a 
pan-cake  turner.  It  should  take  about  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes  to 
be  done  thoroughly  over  live  coals. 

245.  Broiled  Salt  White  Fish— Freshen  over  night  in  suffi- 
cient buttermilk  or  sweet  milk  (skimmed  milk  will  answer)  to  cover 
placing  it  flesh  side  down.  Broil  same  as  in  preceding  recipe  and 
serve  with  a  gravy  of  hot  cream,  to  which  is  added  a  half  spoon  of 
butter;  salt  to  taste. 

246.  Fried  Fish— Most  of  the  smaller  fish  (generally  termed 
pan-fish)  are  usually  fried.  Clean  well,  cut  off  the  head,  and,  if  quite 
large,  cut  out  the  backbone,  and-  slice  the  body  crosswise  into  five  or 
six  pieces.  Dip  in  Indian  meal  or  wheat  flour,  or  in  beaten  egg, 
and  roll  in  bread  or  fine  cracker  crumbs— trout  and  perch  should  not 
be  dipped  in  meal;  put  into  a  thick  bottomed  iron  frying-pan  the 
flesh  side  down,  with  hot  lard  or  drippings  (not  in  butter,  as  it'  dis- 
colors the  fish,  and  also  destroys  some  of  its  sweetness) ;  fry  slowly 
turning  when  lightly  browned.  The  following  method  may  be  deemed 
preferable:  Dredge  the  pieces  with  flour;  brush  them  over  with  beaten 
egg;  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  drippings  sufficient  to 
cover.  If  the  fat  is  very  hot,  the  fish  will  fry  without  absorbing  it,  and 
it  will  be  palatably  cooked.  When  browned  on  one  side,  turn  it'over 
in  the  fat  and  brown  the  other,  draining  when  done.  This  is  par- 
ticularly a  good  way  to  fry  slices  of  large  fish.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce;  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

247.  Brook  Trout — These  delicate  fish  are  always  fried.  Wash 
and  drain  in  a  colander,  split  nearly  to  the  tail,  flour  them  nicely  salt 
and  put  in  a  frying-pan,  hot  but  not  burning.  If  you  use  lard  instead 
of  the  fat  of  fried  salt  pork,. which  is  preferable,  throw  in  a  little  salt  to 
prevent  their  sticking.  Do  not  turn  them  until  sufficiently  browned  for 
the  table.  They  are  to  be  fried  crisp,  or  only  browned,  according  to 
fancy.  They  are  nice  fried  and  served  with  slices  of  side  salt  pork 
when  both  should  be  done  crisp.  Cook  and  serve  brook  trout  with 
their  heads. 


59 

248.  Fried  Smelts — Fry  with  the  heads  on,  same  as  brook 
trout.     See  No.  247. 

249.  Pan  Fish — Fried — Place  them  in  the  frying-pan  with  the 
heads  all  lying  the  same  way,  and  the  spaces  between  fill  in  with  smaller 
fish.  When  done  to  turn,  place  a  plate  over  the  whole  and  drain  off 
the  fat;  invert  the  pan  and  they  will  be  left  unbroken  on  the  plate.  Put 
back  the  fat  again  in  the  pan,  and  when  quite  hot  slip  in  the  fish  care- 
fully, and  when  that  side  is  also  done,  drain  on  the  plate  as  before,  and 
slip  them  on  a  hot  platter  for  the  table.  With  care  they  will  be  unbroken, 
and  with  the  heads  on  will  make  a  fine  appearing  dish. 

250.  Stewed  Fish — Cut  any  kind  of  large  fresh-water  fish  in 
slices  across,  an  inch  and  a  half  thick,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Boil  two 
sliced  onions  until  done;  pour  off  the  water  and  season  with  pepper  and 
salt;  add  two  cups  hot  water  and  a  little  parsley,  and  in  this  simmer  the 
fish  until  done.     Serve  quite  hot. 

251.  Boiled  Salt  Mackerel — After  freshening,  wrap  a  cloth 
around  and  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  It  will  be  about  done  as  soon 
as  the  water  slowly  reaches  boiling.  Remove  it  carefully  from  the 
cloth  to  a  platter,  skin  side  up  if  it  be  unbroken.  Place  on  it  the  slices 
of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  pour  around  it,  not  covering,  a  drawn 
butter.  Trim  the  platter  with  leaves  of  parsley  or  celery.  Salt  fish  is 
much  sooner  boiled  than  fresh  fish,  while  excessive  boiling  hardens  it. 

252.  Broiled  Salt  Mackerel — This  is  more  particularly  a 
breakfast  dish,  and  may  be  freshened  over  night,  placing  the  fish  in 
cold  water,  skin  side  up.  Broil  quickly,  but  do  not  burn,  placing  the 
skin  side  next  the  gridiron,  and  turning  it.  A  wire  broiler  is  the  best 
to  broil  it  on.  When  done,  slip  it  off  on  a  hot  platter,  without  break- 
ing, and  serve  with  skin  side  up.  Garnish  with  parsley  or  slices  of 
lemon  laid  on  the  fish. 

253.  Fish  Chowder— The  best  fish  for  chov/der  are  haddock 
and  sea  or  striped  bass,  although  any  kind  of  fresh  fish  may  be  used, 
those  having  large  flakes  being  preferred.  Cut  in  pieces  over  an  inch 
thick  and  two  inches  square;  place  eight  good  sized  slices  of  salt  pork 
in  the  bottom  of  an  iron  pot  and  fry  crisp;  remove  the  pork,  leaving 
the  fat;  put  in  the  pot  a  layer  of  fish,  a  layer  of  split  cracker,  and  some 
of  the  pork  chopped  fine,  with  black  and  red  pepper  and  chopped 
onions;  then  another  layer  of  fish,  another  of  cracker,  etc.,  etc.,  until 
the  pot  is  full;  cover  with  water  and  stew  slowly  until  the  fish  is  per- 
fectly done;  remove  the  fish  from  the  pot  to  a  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be 
served,  and  keep  it  hot;  thicken  the  gravy  with  rolled  cracker  or  flour; 
boil  up  once,  and  pour  over  the  chowder. 

254.  Salmon  Gratin — One  coffeecup  of  cold  boiled  salmon, 
pulled  into  flakes  with  a  fork;  mix  with  this  half  a  cup  of  cold  drawn 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  fill  small  cup-cake  tins  or  sauce  plates;  cover 
with  fine  bread  crumbs;  place  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

255.  Crumbed  Haddock — Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from 
cold  boiled  haddock,  and  boil  with  half  a  small  onion;  pick  the  fish  into 
flakes,  and  mix  with  each  pint  of  fish  one  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon 


6o 

of  pepper  and  a  cup  of  dry  bread  crumbs;  fill  a  buttered  dish  half  full 
and  pour  in  what  remains  of  the  drawn  butter,  or  make  a  cup  full;  add 
the  rest  of  the  fish,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top,  moisten  with  the  water 
in  which  the  bones  were  boiled,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes.  It 
should  be  more  moist  than  scalloped  oysters. 

256.  Pickled  Halibut— Take  a  good  shaped  piece  of  cold 
boiled  halibut,  stick  half  a  dozen  cloves  in  it,  put  it  in  a  bowl  and  pour 
over  it  hot  vinegar  in  which  has  been  boiled  a  small  bit  of  red  pepper 
and  a  blade  of  mace;  next  day  arrange  around  the  edge  of  a  dish  some 
fresh  crisp  lettuce  leaves;  place  the  pickled  fish  in  the  center  and  pour 
over  it  what  remains  of  the  vinegar. 

SHELL    FISH. 

Ovsters— Note— This  succulent  bivalve  forms  an  important,  and, 
in  many  localities,  an  inexpensive  article  of  food.  The  great  variety  of 
ways  in  which  they  maybe  quickly  and  excellency  cooked,  render  them 
prime  favorites  with  nearly  every  housewife.  They  are  in  their  best 
season  from  September  to  April-the  months  spelled  with  an  r  —and 
were  formerly  considered  quite  unwholesome  during  the  others^  New 
methods  of  cultivation  have,  however,  so  far  improved  them  that  they 
are  now  eaten  in  large  cities,  more  or  less,  all  the  year  round. 

Ovsters  in  the  shell  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  cellar,  in  conical-shaped 
heaps/occasionally  sprinkled  over  with  Indian  meal  or  middlings,  and 
drenched  with  salt  water.  In  this  way,  and  if  free  from  frost,  they  may 
be  kept  sound  for  considerable  time.  Opened  oysters,  or  oyster  meats, 
come  both  canned,  and  in  bulk  by  measure.  They  were  formerly  put  up 
in  kegs,  but  this  method  has  been  entirely  superseded  by  the  can*  In 
some  localities  the  largest  of  selected  oysters  are  termed  "Counts,  and 
are  sold  by  the  hundred,  and  not  by  measure  or  canned:  They  are 
larger  and  whiter,  but  not  of  so  fine  flavor  as  the  smaller  or  less  culti- 
vated varieties,  the  small,  uncultivated  native,  when  fresh  being  the 
sweetest  of  all.  Of  the  canned  oysters,  the  larger  are  termed  Selects 
XXX  "Stars"  or  other  fanciful  names  given  by  different  oyster 
packers.'    The  smaller  kinds  are  known  as  "  Standards"  one  X  etc. 

When  shell  oysters  are  fresh,  the  shell  is  firmly  closed;  if  partly 
open  and  it  does  not  immediately  close  upon  being  touched,  the  oyster 
is  dead  and  unfit  for  use.  When  canned  oysters  are  spoued  or  sour, 
the  cans  will  be  swelled  on  the  sides;  never  buy  such.  Freezing  is 
quite  injurious  to  oysters,  as  it  kills  them  in  the  shell,  and  destroys 
in  a  great  measure,  the  flavor  of  those  in  cans.  Do  not  let  oysters 
cooked  in  any  manner  stand,  but  serve  them  at  once,  as  one  great 
merit  lies  in  their  being  eaten  hot. 

257.  Roast  Oysters  in  the  Shell— Select  the  large  ones,  those 
usually  termed  "Saddle  Rocks,"  formerly  known  as  a  distinct  variety 
but  which  are  now  but  the  large  oysters  selected  from  any  beds;  wash  and 
wipe  them,  and  place  with  the  upper  or  deep  shell  down,  to  catch  the 
juice,  over  or  on  live  coals.    When  they  open  their  shells,  remove  the 


6i 

shallow  one,  being  careful  to  save  all  the  juice  in  the  other;  place  them, 
shells  and  all,  on  a  hot  platter,  and  send  to  table  hot,  to  be  seasoned  by 
each  person  with  butter  and  pepper  to  taste.  If  the  oysters  are  fine, 
and  they  are  just  cooked  enough  and  served  all  hot,  this  is  the  para- 
mount luxury  in  oyster  eating. 

258.  A  Fulton  Market  or  Eighteen-Penny  Roast — Is  still 
known  in  New  York  from  the  place  at  which  it  was  and  is  still  served, 
and  from  the  original  price  of  the  dish.  Take  nine  large  oysters,  wash, 
dry  and  roast  over  a  charcoal  fire.  Two  minutes  after  the  shells  open, 
they  will  be  done.  Take  them  up  quickly,  saving  the  juice  in  a  small, 
shallow  tin  pan;  keep  hot  until  all  are  done;  butter,  sprinkle  with  pepper, 
and  serve  quickly.  • 

259.  Oysters  in  the  Shell — Open  the  shells,  keeping  the 
deepest  ones  for  use;  melt  some  butter,  season  with  minced  parsley 
and  pepper;  when  slightly  cooled,  roll  each  oyster  in  it,  using  care  that 
it  drips  but  little,  and  lay  it  in  a  shell;  add  to  each  a  little  lemon  juice, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  place  in  a  baking  pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     Just  before  they  are  done,  add  a  little  salt.     Serve  in  ths  shells. 

260.  Raw  Oysters— On  Half  Shell— The  finest  for  eating  raw 
are  those  known  as  Shrewsburys,  Blue  Points  or  Cherry  Stones — the 
names  of  the  beds  from  which  they  are  taken.  Wash  the  shells,  open 
them,  and  detach  the  upper  or  deep  shell;  loosen  from  the  under 
shell  by  cutting  the  muscle  clear — some  term  it  the  heart;  serve  six 
or  nine  to  a  plate,  with  a  quarter  of  a  lemon — to  squeeze  over  them — in 
the  center.     Serve  finely  shaved  white  cabbage  with  them.  t 

261.  Raw  Oysters— Without  the  Shells— Carefully  open 
shell  oysters,  drain  well  in  a  colander,  sprinkle  with  plenty  of  pepper 
and  a  little  salt,  place  on  the  ice  or  a  cool  place,  until  served  with  Chili 
or  Worcestershire  sauce,  horse-radish,  lemon,  or  vinegar;  also  cut 
cabbage  or  pickled  gherkins. 

262.  Boiled  Shell  Oysters — Wash  the  shells  very  clean,  put 
in  a  small  wire  basket,  suspend  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  when 
the  shells  open  lift  the  basket,  remove  the  upper  shell,  and  serve  on  a' 
hot  platter  unseasoned. 

263.  Broiled  Oysters— On  the  Half  Shell— Select  large  ones, 
clean  the  shells,  and  open,  saving  the  juice;  put  the  oysters  in  boiling 
water  a  few  minutes;  take  out  and  place  each  in  a  deep  shell,  with 
some  juice;  place  on  a  gridiron  over  a  brisk  fire,  and  when  they  begin 
to  simmer  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  drop  of  lemon 
juice  if  desired.     Serve  on  the  half  shell,  with  celery  as  a  relish. 

264.  Broiled  Oysters — Select  large  Count  oysters,  or  shells 
that  are  just  opened,  dry  them  in  a  napkin,  and  broil  on  a  fine  wire 
broiler,  turning  frequently  to  preserve  the  juice.  Serve  quickly  in  a 
hot  dish,  with  small  bits  of  butter  over  them. 

265.  Broiled  Oysters — Dry  a  quart  of  oysters  in  a  cloth,  dip 
each  in  melted  butter  well  peppered,  and  then  in  dry  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  also  peppered;  broil  on  a  wire  broiler  over  live  coals  five  to 
seven  minutes.     Serve  hot. 


62 

266.  Grilled  Oysters  with  Pork — On  a  small  wire,  bent  in 
shape  of  a  hairpin,  string  alternately,  first  a  large  oyster,  then  a  small 
slice  of  salt  pork,  until  the  wire  is  full;  fasten  the  ends  into  a  long 
wooden  handle,  and  hold  before  the  fire  until  all  are  well  browned.  Serve 
with  or  without  the  pork,  as  preferred,  seasoned  with  pepper. 

267.  Steamed  Oysters — Shells — Put  some  shell  oysters  in 
an  air-tight  vessel,  the  upper  shell  downwards,  to  save  the  juice  when 
they  open;  set  them  over  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  it  hard  for 
twenty  minutes,  or  steam  until  the  shells  open,  when  they  are  done. 
Serve  in  the  shells  immediately,  to  be  seasoned  with  salt  and  butter  as 
eaten. 

268.  Steamed  Oysters — Wash  and  drain  a  quart  of  Counts, 
or  Select  oysters,  put  them  in  a  pan  and  place  in  a  steamer  over  boiling 
water;  cover  and  steam  till  they  are  plump,  with  the  edges  ruffled  and 
black.     Place  in  a  heated  dish  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

269.  Panned  Oysters — Cut  some  stale  bread  in  thin  slices, 
taking  off  all  the  crust;  round  the  slices  to  fit  patty  pans;  toast,  butter, 
place  them  in  the  pans  and  moisten  with  three  or  four  teaspoons  of 
oyster  liquor;  place  on  the  toast  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle  with  pepper 
and  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  pan;  place  all  the  pans 
in  a  baking  pan  and  place  in  the  oven,  covering  tightly.  They  will 
cook  in  seven  or  eight  minutes  if  the  oven  is  hot;  of,  cook  till  the  beards 
are  ruffled;  remove  the  cover,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  replace  and 
cook  one  minute  longer.     Serve  in  the  patty  pans.     They  are  delicious. 

270.  Panned  Oysters — Lay  in  a  thin  pie  tin  or  dripping  pan 
half  a  pint  of  large  oysters,  or  more  if  required;  have  the  pan  large  enough 
so  that  each  oyster  will  lie  flat  on  the  bottom;  put  in  over  them  a  little 
oyster  liquor,  but  not  enough  to  float;  place  them  carefully  in  a  hot 
oven  and  just  heat  them  through  thoroughly — do  not  bake  them — which 
will  be  in  three  to  five  minutes,  according  to  fire;  take  them  up  and 
place  on  toast,  first  moistened  with  the  hot  juice  from  the  pan.  Are  a 
very  good  substitute  for  oysters  roasted  in  the  shell,  the  slow  cooking- 
bringing  out  the  flavor. 

271.  Oyster  Stew — Put  the  liquor  from  the  oysters  on  the 
stove,  let  boil,  skim  and  season  with  butter  and  pepper;  add  the  oysters. 
Let  it  come  to  a  boil  only.     Season  with  salt  and  serve. 

272.  Oyster  Stew — Take  twelve  to  fifteen  good  sized  opened 
oysters — those  opened  fresh  from  the  shells  preferred;  place  in  half 
pint  cold  water  in  a  stew  pan;  heat  gradually  until  hot,  skimming  off 
all  scum  as  it  arises;  when  quite  hot  add  half  a  pint  warm  milk;  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  if  it  requires  it.  Let  it  boil  up  once  only, 
and  serve  in  bowls  or  soup  plates.  Celery  and  cold  raw  cabbage  to  be 
served  with  it. 

273.  Plain  Oyster  Stew — Same  as  a  milk  or  cream  stew  (see 
No.  274),  using  pyster  liquor  or  water  instead  of  milk  or  cream,  adding 
more  butter  after  taking  up. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and 
Clark  streets,  Chicago. 


63 

274.  Oysters  Stewed  in  Milk  or  Cream — Take  half  a  pint 
good  milk  or  cream,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  place  in  it  one  dozen  medium 
sized  oysters,  and  cook  three  to  four  minutes  on  a  stove  or  range; 
season  while  cooking.  Is  a  dish  for  one  only.  Use  a  like  quantity  for 
each  additional  person,  but  use  all  milk,  or  half  each  of  milk  and  cream. 
— Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark  streets,  Chicago. 

275.  Dry  Oyster  Stew — Take  six  to  twelve  large  oysters  and 
cook  them  in  half  a  pint  of  their  own  liquor;  season  with  butter  and 
white  pepper;  cook  for  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Serve  in 
hot  soup  plates  or  bowls. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark 
streets,  Chicago. 

276.  Boston  Fancy — To  six  or  eight  count  or  shell  oysters 
use  a  half  cup  water  or  oyster  liquor,  season  well  with  butter  and  pepper, 
and  cook  from  three  to  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  serve  on 
pointed  slices  of  buttered  toast  standing  in  a  bowl  or  soup  plate,  the 
points  outward. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark  streets, 
Chicago. 

277.  Neptune  Oyster  Stew — Six  or  eight  shell  oysters  and 
four  clams,  just  from  the  shells;  stew  four  or  five  minutes  in  clam  and 
oyster  liquor  mixed;  add  boiling  milk  or  cream,  and  serve.  It  is  quite 
necessary  to  add  the  milk  quite  hot,  to  prevent  being  soured  by  the 
clam  juice. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark  streets, 
Chicago. 

278.  Fried  Oysters — Pour  the  liquor  from  the  oysters;  dip 
them  in  an  egg  batter  niade  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  milk  to  thin 
to  about  as  thick  as  cream;  after  dipping,  roll  the  oysters  in  cracker 
meal,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  nicely  browned  on  both  sides. — Boston 
Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark  streets,  Chicago. 

279.  "Our  Boston  Fry  " — Prepare  the  oysters  in  egg  batter 
and  fine  cracker  meal;  fry  in  butter  over  a  slow  fire  for  about  ten 
minutes;  cover  the  hollow  of  a  hot  platter  with  tomato  sauce;  place 
the  oysters  in  it,  but  not  covering,  garnished  with  chopped  parsley 
sprinkled  over  the  oysters. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and 
Clark  streets,  Chicago. 

280.  Fried  Oysters — For  small  oysters,  drain  them  carefully; 
remove  all  bits  of  shell;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  then,  if  oysters  are  quite  small, 
pour  them  into  a  pan  of  fine  rolled  crackers,  add  the  liquor,  mix  well, 
and  let  stand  five  minutes;  add  a  very  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  mould 
into  small  cakes,  with  two  or  three  oysters  in  each;  roll  into  more  dry 
cracker  until  well  crusted,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter,  or  beef 
drippings.     Serve  hot  on  a  covered  dish. 

281.  Fried  Oysters — Dip  them  in  the  yelk  of  egg  well  beaten 
and  seasoned,  then  in  corn  meal  with  a  little  baking  powder  mixed  with 
it,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts;  when  hot  enough  the  lard  will 
cease  to  bubble,  and  remain  quite  still;  skim  out  quickly  and  drain; 
or,  if  you  have  a  wire  frying  basket,  place  them  on  that  and  put  it  in 


64 

hot  lard.  If  the  fat  is  not  perfectly  clear,  drop  in  a  small  peeled 
potato  before  frying,  which  will  not  only  have  the  effect  of  clearing 
the  fat,  but  also  prevent  its  becoming  too  hot  while  frying.  It  is  better 
not  to  touch  oysters  with  the  hand  while  preparing  them  for  frying,  as 
it  tends  to  toughen  them.  All  the  turning  and  dipping  can  be  well 
performed  by  the  aid  of  a  silver  four-tined  fork. 

282.  Broiled  Oysters — Prepare  oysters  the  same  as  for  frying; 
grease  a  fine  meshed  wire  broiler  with  salt  pork,  and  broil  over  an  open 
charcoal  or  coke  fire,  until  browned  on  both  sides.  Serve  on  toast, 
with  a  cream  sauce,  in  which  sprinkle  a  little  chopped  celery  and 
parsley. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark  streets,  Chicago. 

283.  Fricasseed  Oysters — Take  a  slice  of  raw  ham,  which 
has  been  pickled  but  not  smoked,  and  soak  in  boiling  water  for  half  an 
hour;  cut  it  in  quite  small  pieces,  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  two-thirds 
of  a  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  broth,  well  strained,  the  liquor  from  a  quart 
of  oysters,  one  small  onion  minced  fine,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley,  sweet 
marjoram,  and  pepper;  let  them  simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  and  then 
boil  rapidly  two  or  three  minutes;  skim  well,  and  add  one  scant  table- 
spoon corn-starch  mixed  evenly  in  one-third  cup  of  milk;  stir  con- 
stantly, and  when  it  boils  add  the  oysters  and  one  ounce  butter;  after 
which  just  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  remove  the  oysters  to  a  deep  dish; 
beat  one  egg,  and  add  to  it  gradually  some  of  the  hot  broth,  and  when 
cooked  stir  it  into  the  pan;  season  with  salt,  and  pour  the  whole  over 
the  oysters.  When  placed  upon  the  table,  squeeze  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
over  it. 

284.  Oyster  Pies — For  each  pie  take  a  tin  plate  half  the  size 
around  of  an  ordinary  dinner  plate;  grease  it  and  cover  the  bottom 
with  a  puff  paste,  as  for  pies;  lay  on  it  five  or  six  select  oysters,  or 
enough  to  cover  the  bottom;  butter  them  and  season  with  a  little  salt 
and  plenty  of  pepper;  spread  over  this  an  egg  batter,  and  cover  with  a 
crust  of  the  paste,  making  small  openings  in  it  with  a  fork.  Bake  in  a 
hot  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  top  is  nicely  browned. — 
Boston  Oyster  House,  cor.  Madison  and  Clark  streets,  Chicago. 

285.  Oyster  Pie— Line  a  deep  pie-dish  with  puff  paste,  dredge 
with  flour,  pour  in  a  pint  of  oysters,  season  well  with  bits  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  flour  over  all;  pour  on  some  of  the  oyster 
liquor,  and  cover  with  a  crust,  having  an  opening  in  the  center  to  allow 
the  steam  to  escape. 

286.  Oyster  Pie — Line  the  pie-dish  half  way  up  with  a  good 
pie  crust,  fill  the  dish  with  pieces  of  stale  bread,  cover  with  a  paste, 
and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  brisk  oven;  take  off  the  crust, 
have  ready  some  nicely  stewed  oysters,  or  prepared  as  if  for  patties, 
fill  the  pie  with  them,  replace  the  crust,  and  serve  at  once. 

287.  Oyster  Pie — Line  a  dish  with  a  good  puff  paste,  putting 
an  extra  layer  around  the  edge,  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven;  after  bak- 
ing, fill  with  oysters,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  one  tablespoon  of 
-butter;  sprinkle  lightly  with  flour,  and  cover  with  a  thin  crust  of  the 


65 

paste;  bake  quickly.  When  the  top  crust  is  done  the  pie  will  be  ready 
to  take  out.  Serve  promptly,  as  the  crust  quickly  absorbs  the  gravy. 
Some  like  this  cold  for  picnics  or  traveling. 

288.  Escalloped  Oysters — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered 
baking  dish  with  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  wet  them 
with  half  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  put  on  in  spoonsful ;  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  bits  of  butter;  then  add  one  quart  oysters,  with  the  liquor; 
pepper  and  drop  on  small  bits  of  butter;  over  these  sprinkle  thickly  a 
layer  of  crumbs,  wet  them,  and  put  on  more  butter;  cover  over  tightly, 
and  bake  from  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  the  juice 
bubbles  up;  remove  the  cover,  and  brown  over  the  top  in  a  hotter  part 
of  oven  for  a  few  minutes.     Serve  in  the  baking-dish. 

289.  Oysters  with  Veal — (See  Veal  with  Oysters,  No. 
172.) 

290.  Oyster  Fritters — Select  plump,  good-sized  oysters;  drain 
off  the  juice,  and  to  a  cupful  of  which  add  a  cup  of  milk,  two  or  three 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  rather  thick  batter; 
take  up  an  oyster,  cover  it  well  with  the  batter,  and  drop  in  hot  lard  to 
fry,  same  as  other  fritters. 

291.  Oyster  Croquettes — (See  Chicken  and  Oyster  Cro- 
quettes, No.  193.) 

292.  Oyster  Patties — Put  fifty  freshly  opened  oysters  into  a 
sauce  pan  over  a  quick  fire;  let  them  boil,  and  skim;  strain  them  quite 
dry  saving  the  liquor;  take  of  butter  and  flour  each  a  tablespoon  and 
a  half;  mix  well  together;  let  simmer  over  the  fire  until  clear;  then 
add  the  oyster  liquor  and  a  pint  of  cream;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
a  little  nutmeg,  and  a  very  little  cayenne;  let  all  boil  about  twenty 
minutes,  strain,  add  the  oysters  and  finish  with  a  little  butter.  The 
patties  should  be  ready;  place  a  spoonful  of  the  stew  in  each;  put  on 
the  cover  and  serve. — FermandFM,  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Astor  House \  JV.  Y. 

293.  Oyster  Patties — (See  Veal  Patties,  No.  175).  Stewing 
the  oysters  in  the  ordinary  way,  without  pork  or  celery  seasoning. 

294.  Deviled  Oysters — Wipe  them  dry,  and  lay  in  a  flat  dish; 
cover  with  a  mixture  of  melted  butter,  cayenne  pepper — or  pepper 
sauce — and  lemon  juice;  let  them  lie  for  ten  minutes,  turning  frequently; 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  and  again  in  the  crumbs; 
fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter,  mixed  half  and  half.     Serve  quite  hot. 

CLAMS. 

Note. — There  are  several  varieties  of  clams,  the  round  or  hard- 
shell (known  on  the  sea  coast  as  quahogs)  being  in  most  common  use, 
are  the  coarser  kind,  and  quite  strong  in  flavor.  The  more  delicate 
kinds  are  little-necks,  princes-bays,  and  soft-shells  (the  latter  being  in 
season  during  the  cold  months  only,  and  should  especially  be  fresh). 
Without  possessing  the  delicate  flavor  of  the  oyster,  they  may  be  readily 
prepared  in  many  ways  to  form  a  very  desirable  edible,  while  some  of 
the  dishes  given  are  held  in  great  estimation,  particularly  at  the  seaside. 


66 

295.  Clam  Chowder— ( The  New  Bedford  A?a>*)— The  mate- 
rials needed  are  fifty  round  clams  (quahogs),  a  large  bowl  of  salt  pork 
cut  up  fine,  the  same  of  onions  finely  chopped,  and  same  (or  more  if 
you  desire)  of  potatoes  cut  into  eighths  or  sixteenths  of  original  size; 
wash  the  clams  very  thoroughly,  and  put  them  in  a  pot  with  half  a  pint 
of  water;  when  the  shells  are  open  they  are  done;  then  take  them 
from  the  shells  and  chop  fine,  saving  all  the  clam  water  for  the  chowder; 
fry  out  the  pork  very  gently,  and  when  the  scraps  are  a  good  brown, 
take  them  out  and  put  in  the  chopped  onions  to  fry;  they  should  be 
fried  in  a  frying-pan  and  the  chowder-kettle  be  made  very  clean  before 
they  are  put  in  it,  or  the  chowder  will  burn.  (The  chief  secret  in 
chowder-making  is  to  fry  the  onions  so  delicately  that  they  will  be 
missing  in  the  chowder.) 

Add  a  quart  of  hot  water  to  the  onions;  put  in  the  clams,  clam- 
water  and  pork  scraps.  After  it  boils,  add  the  potatoes,  and  when  they 
are  cooked,  the  chowder  is  finished.  Just  before  it  is  taken  up,  thicken 
it  with  a  cup  of  powdered  crackers  and  add  a  quart  of  fresh  milk.  If 
too  rich,  add  more  water.  No  seasoning  is  needed  but  good  black 
pepper. 

296.  Clam  Chowder — Take  fifty  quahogs  and  chop  them  up; 
peel  and  slice  ten  raw  potatoes;  cut  into  dice  size  six  onions  and  half  a 
pound  fat  salt  pork;  slice  six  tomatoes  or  use  a  large  cup  of  canned 
tomatoes;  one  pound  Boston  or  pilot  crackers  (sea  biscuits).  First  put 
the  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  pot  and  try  out;  partly  cook  the  onions 
in  pork  fat  and  remove;  lay  in  the  pot  alternately  the  different  ingre- 
dients as  prepared,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  water  and 
boil  an  hour  and  a  half,  with  an  inverted  plate  over  to  keep  in  the 
steam.  Stir  in  a  little  chopped  parsley  just  before  taking  up,  as  it  will 
add  to  the  appearance  if  not  flavor  of  the  dish. 

297.  Clam  Stew — Take  half  a  peck  hard-shell  clams,  wash 
them  clean,  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  about  one  cup  water;  let 
them  steam  until  they  open;  take  them  out  and  remove  from  the  shell, 
saving  the  juice;  strain  it,  and  with  the  clams  return  to  the  pot;  after 
coming  to  a  boil,  add  a  pint  milk,  an  egg-sized  lump  of  butter,  three 
crackers  rolled  fine,  pepper,  and  salt  if  needed,  which  it  will  probably 
not. 

298.  Clam  and  Oyster  Stew — Use  about  half  the  quantity  of 
clams  and  proceed  as  above,  using  the  same  quantity  of  canned  or 
count  oysters  as  that  of  clams  after  they  are  taken  from  the  shells,  and 
cook  as  above  directed. 

299.  Fried  Clams — Take  a  sufficient  quantity  of  shelled  clams, 
and  after  drying,  fry  in  a  very  little  lard  or  butter,  turning  them  over 
once  or  twice;  just  before  they  are  done  prick  them  with  a  fork  to  let 
out  the  juice,  and  add  a  little  vinegar;  when  it  is  hot  take  up  and  serve. 

300.  Fried  Clams — Breaded — Take  from  the  shell  some  good 
sized  soft-shell  clams;  beat  an  tgg  well,  and  add  to  it  two  tablespoons 
water,  dry  the  clams  well  in  a  cloth,  and  dip  them  first  in  egg  and  then 


67 

in  fine  crackers  or  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  good  sweet  lard  or  butter. 
They  should  fry  considerably  longer  than  oysters  prepared  in  a  similar 
manner. 

301.  Clam  Pie — Of  either  hard  or  soft  shell  clam  meats,  take 
about  three  pints — if  large,  chop  them  up  a  little — having  saved  all  their 
juice  when  opening,  boil  them  in  it;  if  not  sufficient,  add  a  little  water; 
have  at  hand  four  medium  sized  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  small  squares; 
make  a  nice  pie  crust,  with  which  line  a  good  sized  earthen  baking  dish 
for  half  way  down  the  sides.  Place  a  small  teacup  in  the  middle  of 
the  dish,  inverted  to  hold  up  the  crust,  and  place  around  it  first  a  layer 
of  clams,  and  then  a  few  squares  of  potato;  season  with  bits  of  butter 
and  a  little  salt  or  pepper,  and  dredge  over  with  flour;  repeat  this  until 
the  dish  is  full,  adding  clam  juice  and  a  little  water  if  necessary. 

302.  Clam  Fritters — Put  into  an  earthen  dish  three  spoons 
of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder,  and  two  eggs;  mix  this  with  a  little 
clam  juice;  mince  a  pint  of  clams  and  mix  with  this  batter;  put  two  or 
three  spoons  lard  into  a  shallow  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  put  in  the  clam 
batter  by  spoonfuls  to  fry;  turn  them  over  after  three  or  four  minutes, 
let  them  fry  a  moment  longer,  then  take  them  out,  and  after  draining 
them  on  a  cloth,  serve.  Clam  fritters  should  not  be  cooked  in  large 
masses.- — Etnil  Combe  y  Chef  de  Cuisine 9  Hotel  Wellington. 

303.  Clam  Fritters — Take  raw  clams  fresh  from  the  shells  and 
chopped  fine;  make  a  batter  of  the  juice,  an  equal  quantity  of  sweet 
milk  and  four  eggs  to  each  pint  of  the  liquid,  with  sufficient  flour  to 
stiffen;  fry  in  boiling  lard  the  same  as  other  fritters. 

LOBSTERS,  CRABS,  ETC. 

Note — Lobsters  are  seasonable  all  the  year,  but  best  from  March 
to  October.  The  flesh  of  the  male  lobster  is  the  firmer,  but  the 
female  is  valued  for  its  coral,  lying  inside  the  tail,  which  is  used  in  sev- 
eral sauces  and  decorations  on  account  of  its  beautiful  color.  Con- 
trary to  much  prejudice  on  the  subject,  all  parts  of  the  lobster  are 
wholesome  except  the  stomach  lying  just  back  of  the  head  and  a  black 
or  bluish  vein  running  from  near  the  head  to  the  extremity  of  the  tail. 
These  should  be  removed  after  it  is  boiled.  The  liver,  frequently 
rejected  from  its. being  a  greenish  color  when  boiled,  is,  in  fact,  the 
most  delicate  part  of  the  fish.  Always  buy  a  lively  lobster-— never  a 
dead  one — and  boil  it  yourself,  as  they  should  be  alive  when  put  into 
the  pot.  Dead  lobsters  will  be  watery,  soft,  and  not  full  when  boiled. 
The  smaller  lobsters  are  the  best — those  weighing  from  one  and  a  half 
to  three  pounds — and  should  be  weighty  as  compared  to  bulk. .  Should 
ready-boiled  lobsters  be  purchased,  test  them  by  gently  drawing  back 
the  tail  part  way,  which  should  rebound  with  a  spring  if  it  was  not  dead 
before  boiling,  in  which  case  it  should  be  rejected. 

304.  Boiled  Lobster — The  lobster  suffers  less  upon  being 
killed  in  cold  water  made  hot,  as  it  is  dead  as  soon  as  it  becomes  warm, 
and  the  flesh  will  also  be  firmer.     It  requires  from  fifteen  to  thirty 


68 

minutes  to  boil,  according  to  size;  qui/e  large  ones  perhaps  an  hour. 
When  boiled  take  it  from  the  kettle,  split  it  in  hal-f  from  the  head  to 
tail,  remove  the  stomach  and  vein,  crack  the  claws  so  that  the  meat  may 
be  removed  readily,  and  serve  on  a  platter.  Lettuce  and  other  con- 
comitants of  a  salad  should  also  be  placed  on  the  table  or  platter. — 
Peirre  Blot,  Prof,  of  Gastronomy,  Etc. 

305.  Steamed  Lobsters  —  Many  persons  think  the  lobster 
quite  superior  when  steamed  instead  of  boiled — the  meat  is  dryer  and 
finer.  Place  them  in  a  steamer  or  fish-kettle,  the  boiling  water  not 
touching  the  fish,  and  steam  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  or  until  it  turns 
a  bright  red  color;  take  out,  and  dress  in  any  manner  as  though  boiled. 

306.  Lobster  Croquettes — Take  any  of  the  lobster  remain- 
ing from  table,  and  pound  it  until  the  dark,  light  meat  and  coral  are 
well  mixed;  put  with  it  not  quite  as  much  fine  bread-crumbs;  season 
with  pepper,  salt  and  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper;  add  a  little  melted 
butter,  about  two  tablespoons,  if  the  bread  is  rather  dry;  form  into  egg- 
shaped  or  round  balls;  roll  them  in  egg9  then  in  fine  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard. 

307.  Deviled  Lobsters  —  Take  out  all  the  meat  from  a  boiled 
lobster,  reserving  the  coral;  season  highly  with  mustard,  cayenne,  salt 
and  some  kind  of  table  sauce;  stew  until  well  mixed,  and  put  it  in  a 
covered  saucepan,  with  just  enough  hot  water  to  keep  from  burning; 
rub  the  coral  smooth  until  it  is  thin  enough  to  pour  easily,  then  stir  it 
into  the  saucepan.  The  dressing  should  be  prepared  before  the  meat 
is  put  on  the  fire,  and  which  ought  to  boil  but  once  before  the  coral  is 
put  in,  stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  and  when  it  boils  again 
it  is  done  and  should  be  taken  up  at  once,  as  too  much  cooking  toughens 
the  meat. 

308.  Scalloped  Lobster — Butter  a  deep  dish,  and  cover  the 
bottom  with  fine  bread-crumbs;  put  on  this  a  layer  of  chopped  lobster, 
with  pepper  and  salt;  so  on  alternately  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having 
crumbs  on  top.  Put  on  bits  of  butter,  moisten  with  milk,  and  bake 
about  twenty  minutes. 

309.  Crabs — Are  boiled  like  lobsters,  and  may  be  served  the  same 
as  lobsters  in  a  salad.  When  well  washed  and  cleaned  put  them  in  a 
sauce-pan,  with  slices  of  onion,  carrots,  parsley,  chives  if  you  have  them, 
thyme,  bay  leaves,  salt  and  pepper  corns;  half  cover  them  with  white 
wine,  add  butter,  and  put  over  a  good  fire  to  boil  till  done. 

310.  Soft  Shell  Crabs,  Fried— Prepare  the  crabs  by  cutting 
off  about  one-fourth  of  an  inch  of  the  front  part  or  mouth,  and  scraping 
out  the  fins  from  both  sides  under  the  shell,  after  which  rinse  well  in 
cold  water;  fry  in  butter  or  good  lard  until  a  little  crisp;  when  nearly 
cooked  the  shell  turns  red.  Some  prefer  them  breaded  the  same  as 
oysters.  Serve  on  toast  with  a  butter  sauce.  Garnish  with  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley  and  some  slices  of  onion,  either  or  both. — Boston  Oyster 
House>  cor%  Madison  and  Clark  Sts.}  Chicago. 


69 

311.  Boiled  Hard  Shell  Crabs,  Long  Island  Style— Use  a 

deep  pot  and  fill  it  half  full  of  seaweed  or  twigs;  put  in  enough  sea 
water  or  salted  water  to  cover  the  seagrass  or  twigs  and  bring  it  to  a 
boil ;  then  fill  the  pot  with  the  crabs,  which  have  been  previously 
pricked  with  a  fork  to  let  the  water  out,  cover,  and  keep  the  water 
boiling  until  the  crabs  are  of  the  proper  redness.  This  gives  you  your 
crabs  free  from  water. 

312.  Deviled  Crabs — Prepare  same  as  deviled  lobster,  sub- 
stituting for  the  coral  and  vinegar  some  fine  cracker,  first  moistened 
with  a  tablespoon  of  cream.  It  may  be  served  in  the  back  shell  of  the 
crab.  Serve  with  cream,  crackers,  and  put  a  sprig  of  parsley  on  each 
shell,  ranging  them  on  a  large  platter. 

313.  Shrimps— Boil  and  shell  them;  serve  hot  with  tomato, 
Chili  or  any  other  desired  sauce  or  catsup. — Boston  Oyster  House,  cor, 
Madison  and  Clark  Sts.,  Chicago. 

314.  Terrapin  in  Chafing  Dish,  Maryland  Style— First 

cut  their  heads  off,  then  place  them  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  let  them 
boil  until  the  shell  begins  to  peel;  then  take  off  the  shell  (which  will 
come  off  very  easily  if  boiled  enough),  remove  the  gall,  sand  bag  and 
entrails;  the  balance  is  good;  place  in  a  chafing  dish  with  spirit  lamp 
under  it  (on  your  dinner  table) ;  season  with  red  pepper,  salt,  and  but- 
ter, one-fourth  to  one-half  pound;  add  a  glass  of  Madeira,  let  simmer 
for  half  an  hour,  but  it  must  be  stirred  all  the  time. — By  an  Old  Member 
of  the  Maryla?id  Club. 

FROGS. 

Note — The  French  were  the  first  among  European  nations  to  use 
frogs  as  food.  Frog  eating  has  become  quite  general  in  America,  and 
they  are  now  ranked  as  delicacies.  Only  the  hind  legs  and  quarters  are 
used. 

315.  Frogs,  Fried — The  most  popular  way  of  cooking  is  fry- 
ing, either  plain,  breaded  or  with  an  tgg  batter,  the  same  as  oysters, 
but  longer,  as  they  should  never  be  underdone.  They  may  be  cooked 
in  other  ways  as  well. 

316.  Frogs,  Stewed — Skin,  boil  five  minutes,  and  throw  in 
cold  water  to  cool,  and  drain.  Put  in  a  stew-pan  (for  two  dozen  frogs) 
two  ounces  of  butter;  when  melted  lay  in  the  frogs  and  fry  about  two 
minutes,  tossing  them  in  the  pan  occasionally.  Put  over  them  a  tea- 
spoon flour  by  sprinkling,  and  stir;  add  two  sprigs  parsley,  one  of 
thyme,  a  bay-leaf,  ten  cloves,  a  clove  of  garlic,  salt,  white  pepper  and 
half  a  pint  of  white  wine;  boil  gently  until  done,  and  remove  the  legs; 
reduce  the  sauce  by  boiling,  strain,  and  mix  in  the  yelks  of  two  eggs; 
pour  over  the  legs  and  serve. 


H.M.  WILMARTH.  Established  1859.  T.  W.  WILMARTH. 

H.  M.  WILMARTH  &  BRO. 


Wholesale  and  Retail  Dealers  in 


Artistic  Gas  Fixtures 

225  and  227  State  Street, 

CHICAGO. 

Western  Depot  for  MITCHELL  VANCE  &   CO.,   Manufacturers. 
Gas. Pitting:  in  all  its  Branches. 


In  addition  to  GAS   FIXTURES  we  keep  an  assortment 
of  the  best  Lamps  for  burning  Oil.    We  have 

The  Cleveland  Student  Lamp, 

The  Manhattan  Mammoth  Student  Lamp, 

The  best  Library  and  Hall  Lamps, 

We  keep  the  best  BURNER  ever  invented  for  burning*  Oil,  viz. 

THE   IMPERIAL  BURNER 

GIVING  A  LIGHT  EQUAL  TO  40  CANDLES. 

We  keep  Rich  Table  Lamps  made  of  Hammered  Metal  and 
other  rare  Materials,    We  also  keep 

Brass  Fenders,  Fire  Sets,  Andirons,  Gas  Logs  and  Sconces. 

Send  your  orders  for  Gas  Fitting  to  us  and  the  work  will  be  done  promptly 
and  at  Low  Prices  and  satisfaction  guaranteed.  We  are  the  Agents  for  the 
celebrated  Gas  Stove,  manufactured  by  the  American  Meter  Co.  If  you  have 
not  tried  Coon  Cooking,  call  and  examine;  we  put  them  up  on  approval.  We 
aim  to  please  our  customers  both  in  quality  of  work  done  or  goods  furnished, 
and  in  the  prices  charged. 


VEGETABLES. 


Note. — The  fresher  all  green  vegetables  are,  the  more  wholesome; 
when  they  are  so  they  break  or  snap  crisply,  but  should  they  bend 
without  breaking,  or  have  a  wilted  appearance,  they  are  stale.  Most 
vegetables,  if  wilted,  but  not  too  badly,  may  be  considerably  restored 
by  sprinkling  with  cold  water  and  placing  them  in  a  cool,  dark  place. 
After  being  thoroughly  washed  nearly  all  vegetables  should  be  placed  in 
cold  water  for  some  considerable  time  before  cooking.  Soft  water  is 
much  better  to  use  for  cooking  vegetables,  if  pure  and  clean;  but  if 
hard  water  is  used,  have  it  freshly  drawn,  and  put  in  a  little  soda  to 
soften.  Nearly  all  vegetables  should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  and  are 
spoiled  if  either  over  or  underdone;  those  young  and  tender  require 
less  time  than  those  more  matured.  All  green  vegetables,  with  some 
exceptions,  should  be  cooked  in  plenty  of  salted  water,  putting  them  in 
at  its  first  boil,  as  the  evaporation  tends  to  harden  it;  the  quantity  of 
salt  to  use  is  a  heaping  tablespoon  to  each  gallon  of  water.  All  vegeta- 
bles are  done  as  soon  as  tender,  and  should  then  be  immediately  taken 
up  and  drained  on  a  colander.  Onions  should  be  soaked  in  salted  warm 
water  previous  to  cooking,  to  partly  remove  any  strong  odor  they  may 
possess.  Peas,  string  beans,  and  green  corn  should  not  be  prepared  for 
cooking  until  about  ready  to  be  used.  Turnips,  carrots,  and  onions 
should  not  be  split,  but  sliced  in  rings  across,  as  they  thus  cook  sooner. 

A  little  sugar  added  to  turnips,  beets,  peas,  corn,  squash  and 
pumpkin  will  improve  them,  particularly  if  poor.  A  very  small  bit  of 
red  pepper  put  in  the  water  in  which  either  meat  or  vegetables  are  boiled 
will,  to  some  extent,  deodorize  the  steam,  and  save  the  disagreeable 
odor  arising  from  greens,  cabbage,  onions,  green  beans,  mutton,  corned 
beef,  hams,  etc.,  or  a  small  piece  of  charcoal  will  effect  the  same  object. 
When  vegetables  are  to  be  served  with  salted  meats,  the  meat  should 
be  cooked  first,  the  liquor  saved,  and  the  vegetables  boiled  in  it.  Nearly 
all' vegetables  are  injured  by  being  boiled  with  fresh  meat,  and  they 
also  impart  a  bad  flavor  to  the  meat. 

If  home-grown,  gather  spinach,  string  beans,  peas,  asparagus,  etc., 
early  in  the  morning,  when  the  dew  is  on,  and  put  into  cold  water, 
until  ready  to  be  prepared  for  cooking — some  add  a  little  salt  to  the 
water — but  if  quite  fresh,  only  let  them  remain  in  ten  to  fifteen  minutes, 
and  then  drain.  If  purchased  at  market,  and  of  doubtful  freshness,  let 
them  lie  longer  in  the  salted  water.  * 

For  general  directions  concerning  potatoes,  tomatoes,  etc.,  see 
under  each  respective  head.  For  celery,  chiccory,  cress,  horseradish, 
lettuce,  parsley,  radishes,  sorrel,  for  relishes  or  garnishes,  see  Salads 
and  Dressings,  page  85. 

317.  Asparagus — Note — Gather  with  the  morning  dew  upon  ft; 
do  not  cut  it  off,  but  snap  it,  avoiding  the  hard  or  woody  part  of  the 
stalk;  tie  in  bunches,  eight  to  twelve  stalks  to  the  bunch,  according  to 


72 

size;  when  purchased  the  bunches  come  in  much  larger  sizes,  and  should 
be  divided.  If  to  be  kept  for  some  time  before  using  (never  more  than 
a  day),  place  the  bunch  upright  in  about  half  an  inch  of  cold  water, 
and  keep  cool.  The  larger  stalks,  or  first  cut,  is  prepared  vinegrette, 
with  white  sauce,  or  fried;  the  small  ones,  or  second  cut,  like  green 
peas,  and  is  better  if  taken  from  the  water  when  still  firm;  if  boiled 
soft  it  loses  its  flavor. 

318.  Asparagus — Wash  clean,  break  off  the  white  part,  and 
put  the  green  part  into  boiling  water,  slightly  salted;  boil  five  minutes, 
and  pour  off  the  water;  add  more,  boiling  hot,  and  boil  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes;  then  put  in  a  lump  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  (some  stir  in  a 
thickening  made  of  one  teaspoon  flour  mixed  with  cold  water) ;  toast 
three  thin  slices  bread,  spread  them  with  butter,  put  in  a  dish  and  turn 
the  asparagus  over  it.  The  last  water  must  be  boiled  down  until  just 
enough  for  the  gravy. 

319.  Asparagus — Make  a  gravy  similar  to  the  above,  using  the 
water  in  which  the  asparagus  has  been  boiled;  cut  the  asparagus  into 
small  bits,  rejecting  the  white  ends,  and  put  it  in  a  hot  dish;  turn  the 
gravy  over  it  and  serve. 

320.  Beans — Note — All  stringed  beans,  as  well  as  all  green  shelled 
beans  should  be  young  and  tender  to  be  nice.  There  being  many 
varieties,  they  are  in  season  from  the  latter  part  of  June  to  the  middle 
or  end  of  September. 

321.  Butter  or  Wax  Beans— Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  pods  and 
carefully  remove  the  strings  from  both  sides;  cut  each  bean  lengthwise 
in  two  or  three  strips,  and  soak  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour;  take  a 
quart  of  dressed  beans,  considerably  more  than  cover  them  with  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until  quite  tender,  when  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 
They  are  better  if  boiled  slowly  for  three  hours.  Drain  well  in  the 
kettle  and  return  to  the  fire;  add  a  dressing  of  half  a  gill  of  cream,  one 
and  a-half  ounces  butter,  one  even  teaspoon  salt,  and  half  a  teaspoon 
of  pepper. 

322.  String  Beans — Use  two  quarts  of  beans;  string,  snap  and 
wash  them;  boil  in  water  enough  to  more  than  float  them  for  fifteen  min- 
utes; draw  off,  and  put  on  again  in  about  two  quarts  of  boiling  water; 
boil  an  hour  and  a-half,  or  till  tender,  and  just  before  taking  up,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  stir  in  half  a  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  with 
two  tablespoons  flour  and  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream. 

323.  Green  String  Beans  (Snap  Beans),  French  Haricots, 
Kidney  Beans,  Etc.,  with  the  Pods — Remove  the  string  or  thread 
on  both  sides  by  partly  breaking  one  end  of  the  pod  and  pulling  length- 
wise; repeat  on  opposite  end;  cut  them  in  half -inch  pieces,  soak  in  cold 
water  and  put  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt.  Boil  them  until 
cooked  tender;  take  them  from  the  fire  and  drain. 

324.  Green  Shelled  Beans — Boil  for  half  an  hour  in  water 
sufficient  to  cover,  and  add  a  dressing  in  the  manner  as  for  string  beans, 
No.  322. 


73 

325.  Dry  Beans—Lima,  White  or  Colored— Note— Dry 
beans  should  be  soaked  in  water  for  some  time,  from  five  or  six  up  to 
twenty-four  hours,  if  a  year  or  two  old;  if  doubtful  as  to  age,  it  will  do 
no  harm  to  soak  them  the  longer  time,  and  drain.  If  white  beans  are 
used,  the  smaller  sized  ones  are  the  best.  Their  nutriment,  although 
over-rated,  is  great,  and  for  making  a  very  palatable  and  cheap  soup  are 
very  valuable. 

To  Boil — Put  the  beans  in  a  saucepan  with  cold  water,  and  boil 
gently  until  tender;  as  the  water  evaporates,  fill  up  with  cold  water. 
Never  use  any  salt  in  boiling  dry  beans,  as  it  prevents  their  cooking. 
When  boiled  tender,  drain,  and  they  are  ready  to  be  baked,  or  used  as 
they  are. 

With  Pickled  Pork  or  Bacon — Boil  a  quart  of  beans  as  directed 
above;  cut  in  dice  half  a  pound  of  salt  pork  or  bacon — about  medium 
fat  and  lean — and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan  over  the  fire;  when  half  fried, 
add  the  beans,  mix  and  stir  for  a  minute,  and  place  in  a  warm  oven 
for  about  twenty  minutes,  stirring  occasionally;  when  done,  sprinkle  on 
the  top  some  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  if  not  already 
sufficiently  salt.  Ham  or  fresh  pork  may  be  used  instead  of  salt  pork 
or  bacon,  if  preferred. 

326.  Boston  Baked  Beans — Soak  in  fresh  water  over  night 
a  quart  of  small  white  beans;  in  the  morning  change  the  water  and  put 
them  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  with  water  enough  to  cover,  and  parboil 
until  the  skins  wrinkle;  then  pour  off  that  water,  mix  the  beans  with 
salt,  and  put  them  in  an  earthen  bean-pot  (do  not  use  a  tin  pan) ;  take 
a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork,  score  the  top  and  place  in  the  middle  of  the 
beans;  in  a  cup  mix  a  tablespoon  molasses,  a  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  a 
half  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  and  pour  over  the  beans;  fill  the  pot  with 
warm  water,  cover  the  top  with  the  earthen  lid,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
all  day,  being  careful  not  to  let  the  water  dry  out,  and  thus  dry  the 
beans;  keep  replacing  the  water  until  about  three  o'clock,  and  then  let 
them  remain  in  the  oven  untouched  until  four.  If  desired  for  supper, 
place  in  the  oven  about  half  an  hour  before,  but  add  no  more  water,  and 
do  not  have  the  oven  too  hot,  so  as  to  parch  or  dry  the  beans,  the  object 
being  to  have  them  moist,  but  hot,  when  served. — Palmer  House, 
Chicago. 

Either  of  the  Brown  Breads,  Nos.  1 1,  12  or  95,  should  be  served  with 
the  above. 

327.  Baked  Beans — (See  Yankee  Pork  and  Beans,  No.  160). 

328.  Beets — Cut  off  the  leaves,  and  in  washing  use  care  not  to 
break  off  the  little  fine  roots,  which  would  let  out  the  juice,  and  the  beets 
lose  their  deep  red  color.  They  should  be  boiled  in  plenty  of  water;  for 
young  ones  two  hours,  if  old  four  to  five  hours;  test  them  with  a  fork 
to  see  when  tender;  take  them  out,  drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and 
slip  off  the  skin  with  the  hands;  slice  them  crosswise,  and  place  in  a 
dish;  add  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  if  not  very  sweet  a  teaspoon  of 
sugar;  set  them  over  hot  water  to  heat  and  serve  hot,  with  or  without 


74 

vinegar.  Should  any  remain  put  them  m  a  stone  jar  whole,  cover  with 
vinegar,  keep  in  a  cool  place,  and  use  as  wanted,  slicing  them  then.  A 
root  or  two  of  horseradish  put  into  the  jar  will  prevent  a  white  scum 
arising  on  the  vinegar. 

329.  Beets — I^oast  them  in  hot  ashes  or  in  the  oven,  turning 
them  in  the  pan  carefully  with  a  knife,  and  when  tender,  peel,  slice  and 
dress  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  vinegar. 

330.  Harvest  Beets — Take  young  beets,  and  after  boiling 
and  skinning,  mash  them  with  boiled  potatoes,  and  season  with  salt  and 
a  large  lump  of  butter,  but  no  milk;  place  them  in  a  dish,  make  a  hole 
in  the  center,  in  which  put  a  large  lump  of  butter;  sprinkle  over  with 
pepper,  and  serve  at  once.  Called  harvest  beets,  as  at  that  time  beets 
are  quite  young  and  sweet,  and  this  dish  is  generally  served  at  that 
season. 

331.  Beets  Stewed — Clean  and  wash  well,  but  do  not  skin 
them;  put  in  an  earthen  vessel  a  layer  of  rye  straw,  moisten  it  slightly  and 
place  the  beets  on  it ;  cover  and  place  the  vessel  in  a  slow  oven  for 
five  or  six  hours,  then  cool,  skin  and  cut  them  in  thin  slices;  melt  some 
butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  sprinkle  in  a  pinch  of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of 
chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  and  then  the  beets;  simmer  twenty 
minutes,  add  a  few  drops  vinegar,  and  serve. 

333.     Broccoli — Cook  same  as  cauliflower  (see  No.  340). 

333.  Cabbage  —  Note.  —  Solid,  hard  heads  should  always  be 
selected;  soft  ones  are  nearly  worthless  for  almost  any  culinary  pur- 
pose; never  buy  a  cabbage  that  has  the  least  rot  about  it.  A  slaw  cut- 
ter is  a  very  useful  implement  in  the  preparation  of  all  sliced  or  shreded 
cabbage,  for  cold  or  hot  slaw,  etc. 

To  Boil. — Take  off  the  outer  leaves,  wash  thoroughly,  cut  off  the 
stalk  and  stump,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt  and  a 
small  piece  of  charcoal,  which  will  to  some  extent  dispel  the  effluvia 
when  boiling;  boil  slowly  until  tender;  take  up  and  drain  in  a  colander. 

334.  Heidelberg  Cabbage — Divide  in  halves  two  small  but 
solid  heads  of  hard  red  cabbage;  lay  the  split  side  down  and  slice 
downwards  the  whole  cabbage  in  narrow  strips  or  shreds;  put  into  a 
sauce-pan  a  tablespoon  of  clean  drippings  or  any  clear  fat,  and  when 
hot  put  in  the  cabbage,  three  tablespoons  vinegar  and  one  onion,  in 
which  three  or  four  cloves  have  been  buried;  boil  two  hours  and  a 
half;  if  it  becomes  too  dry  and  is  in  danger  of  burning  add  a  very 
little  water. 

335.  South  Carolina  Cabbage — Slice  or  chop  an  ordinary 
sized  cabbage  quite  fine,  and  cover  it  in  a  sauce-pan  with  boiling  water; 
boil  fifteen  minutes;  drain  well,  and  add  the  following  dressing:  Half 
teacup  white-wine  vinegar,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  half  a 
teaspoon  mustard,  and  two  teaspoons  salad  oil;  boil,  and  when  hot,  add  a 
cup  of  cream  and  one  egg  stirred  together;  mix  quickly  and  thoroughly 
with  the  cabbage;  cook  a  moment,  and  serve  hot. 


n 

336.  Stuffed  Cabbage — Cut  out  the  heart  of  a  large  fresh 
cabbage  by  gently  spreading  back  the  leaves,  to  do  which  without 
breaking  pour  over  it  boiling  water;  fill  the  vacancy  with  finely  chopped 
and  cooked  veal  or  chicken  and  rolled  into  balls  with  the  yelk  of  egg. 
Tie  it  firmly  together  with  twine,  or  tie  it  in  a  cloth  and  boil  in  a 
covered  kettle  two  hours.  This  is  a  very  fine  dish  and  quite  economical 
in  using  up  cold  meats. 

337.  Carrots,  to  Clean  and  Prepare — Trim  off  all  the  small 
roots;  wash  and  scrape  them  gently,  the  skin  only;  wash  well;  drain 
and  cut  them  in  slices  a  quarter  inch  in  thickness,  either  across  or 
lengthwise. 

338*  Carrots,  to  Boil — When  prepared  as  above,  put  them  in 
a  sauce-pan  with  a  little  salt  and  enough  water  to  more  than  cover; 
boil  gently  until  tender,  and  drain;  the  time  will  depend  "upon  how 
young  and  tender  they  are. 

339.  Carrots  Stewed — Divide  them  lengthwise,  and  boil  till 
tender — from  one  to  two  hours;  have  ready  a  sauce-pan  with  one  or 
two  tablespoons  butter  and  a  small  cup  of  cream ;  slice  the  boiled 
carrots  very  thin,  and  put  in  the  sauce-pan;  add  salt,  pepper,  and  let 
them  stew  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  gently  once  or  twice,  and  serve 
in  a  vegetable  dish.  Carrots  may  also  be  boiled  with  meat,  like  turnips 
or  parsnips,  but  take  longer  to  cook. 

340.  Cauliflower  or  Broccoli,  to  Boil — Choose  those  very 
white,  close  and  compact;  trim  off  all  decayed  leaves,  and  cut  the  stock 
off  close  to  the  head;  open  the  flower  a  little  in  places  and  wash;  place 
them,  head  down,  in  salt  and  water  for  two  hours  previous  to  dressing, 
which  will  draw  out  all  insects;  put  into  boiling  water,  with  a  heaping 
tablespoon  of  salt  to  each  two  quarts  of  water;  boil  briskly  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes  over  a  good  fire,  keeping  the  sauce-pan  uncovered, 
skimming  the  water  several  times.  When  boiled  tender,  take  up,  drain, 
and  if  large  heads,  place  upright  in  a  dish,  and  serve  with  plain  melted 
butter,  pouring  a  little  on  the  flower;  or  a  white  sauce  or  drawn  butter 
may  be  used  with  it. 

341.  Green  Corn — Note — There  are  many  varieties  of  corn 
cooked  in  the  ear,  of  which  those  known  as  "  evergreen  "  and  sweet 
corn  are  perhaps  the  best;  it  should  be  freshly  plucked,  and  not  taken 
out  of  the  husk  until  just  before  being  required  to  cook.  It  is  best 
when  eaten  from  the  cob,  with  butter  and  salt. 

342.  Boiled  Corn — After  well  cleaning  the  ears,  removing  all 
silk,  and  cutting  off  the  end  of  the  cob  close  to  the  corn,  put  them  in 
salted  boiling  water;  boil  for  an  hour;  or  it  may  be  boiled  in  the  husk; 
remove  the  husk,  and  serve  quite  hot.  When  thoroughly  cooked  is  a 
very  enjoyable  dish. 

•343.  Stewed  Corn — Carefully  cut  the  corn  off  the  ear,  so  as 
not  to  cut  into  the  cob,  and  to  three  pints  corn  add  three  tablespoons 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  with  enough  water  to  just  cover;  place  in  a 
stewpan,  cover,  and  cook  slowly,  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an 
hour,    often   stirring  it,   and    adding  more   water  if  necessary;  a  few 


76 

minutes  before  it  is  done,  add  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream,  thickened 
with  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  Some  stew  tomatoes  separately,  and  mix  with 
the.corn  just  before  serving. 

344.  Corn  Oysters — To  one  quart  grated  green  corn  (that 
called  evergreen  is  the  best)  add  three  eggs  and  three  or  four  grated 
crackers;  beat  well,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  have  ready  in  a 
skillet,  butter  and  lard,  or  beef  drippings,  in  equal  proportions,  quite 
hot,  but  not  scorching;  drop  in  little  cakes  about  the  size  of  an  oyster, 
using  a  teaspoon  for  the  purpose;  when  brown,  turn,  and  fry  on  the 
other  side,  watching  constantly  to  prevent  burning.  If  the  fat  is  just 
the  right  heat,  the  oysters  will  be  light,  and  have  much  the  flavor  of 
fried  oysters.  Serve  hot,  and  keep  the  dish  well  covered.  By  beating 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  adding  just  before  frying,  they 
will  be  still  better. 

345.  Corn  Fritters  or  Mock  Oysters — Grate  six  ears  of 
corn,  and  mix  with  one  tablespoon  flour,  two  eggs;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  drop  spoonfuls  in  hot  lard  and  fry  like  oysters. — Palmer  House, 
Chicago. 

346.  Cucumbers — Raw — Select  those  of  medium  size  and  very 
fresh,  which  have  not  lain  in  the  sun  after  gathering,  and  put  them 
in  cold  water  half  an  hour ;  an  hour  before  they  are  required  peel  thin, 
and  slice  on  a  slaw  cutter  set  close,  or  very  thin  with  a  knife,  commencing 
at  the  thick  or  blow  end,  or  they  are  likely  to  be  bitter;  let  the  slices 
drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water,  in  which  let  them  lie  for  ten  minutes; 
pour  off  the  water  and  replace  once  or  twice;  finally  cover  them  with 
ice,  and  set  away  in  the  refrigerator  until  wanted  to  serve,  when  salt 
and  pepper  them  and  pour  over  good  cider  vinegar;  some  add  salad 
oil  also. 

From  being  an  indigestible,  strong  and  even  dangerous  edible,  by 
this  process  they  become  wholesome  and  very  relishable.  Sliced  onions 
are  also  served  with  them,  but  they  should  be  mild,  the  Bermuda  onion 
being  the  best. 

347.  Cucumbers — Boiled  and  Fried — Peel  them,  split  them 
lengthwise  in  four  parts;  take  out  the  seeds,  and  cut  into  pieces  about 
an  inch  long;  put  them  in  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt,  and  boil  until 
cooked  done;  put  them  on  a  towel  to  dry;  put  some  butter  in  a  frying- 
pan,  and  place  it  over  a  good  fire;  when  hot  put  in  it  some  chopped 
parsley,  salt,  pepper;  two  minutes  after,  put  in  the  cucumbers,  fry  a  few 
minutes,  tossing  them  now  and  then  and  serve. 

348.  Egg  Plant — Note — The  purple  variety  of  an  oval  shape 
is  the  best.     It  should  be  firm,  but  not  ripe. 

Peel  and  slice  one  or  two  of  medium  size;  put  in  cold  water  a  little 
salted;  boil  until  tender;  drain,  mash  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  add  a  beaten  egg  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Fry  in  little  cakes  in 
butter,  or  butter  and  lard  in  equal  parts. 

349.  Egg  Plant — Another  Method — Cut  in  slices;  lay  in  cold, 
well  salted  water  for  an  hour  or  more;  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs, 


77 

and  fry  with  a  little  butter.  Parsnips  and  oyster  plant  may  also  be 
cooked  in  same  manner,  but  the  latter  should  be  made  into  smaller 
cakes,  to  resemble  oysters. 

350.  Greens— The  following  plants  and  portions  of  young  vege- 
tables make  good  greens:  Young  beets,  beet  tops,  cowslips,  chiccory, 
chevel,  dandelion,  dock,  horseradish  tops,  young  turnips  and  tops,  young 
milk  weed,  and  many  others  peculiar  to  different  localities.  The  dande- 
lion and  dock  are  especially  fine,  producing  marked  effects  as  blood 
purifiers  and  in  clearing  the  complexion. 

They  should  always  be  cooked  in  salted  water,  to  which  should  be 
added  a  little  soda  or  a  pinch  of  carbonate  of  ammonia,  to  preserve  their 
green  color.  All  greens  should  be  very  thoroughly  washed  in  several 
waters,  after  removing  the  roots  and  any  dried  or  dead  stalks  which 
may  have  been  gathered.  They  should  be  either  ^  cooked  in  soft  water 
or  water  freshly  drawn,  and  put  in  at  its  first  boiling. 

The  time  required  is  indefinite,  depending  upon  how  young  they 
maybe,  or  the  variety  used;  are  done  always  as  soon  as  tender,  and 
should  then  be  taken  up,  and  very  thoroughly  drained  by  placing  in  a 
colander,  and  squeezing  with  a  wooden  spoon. 

351.  Mushrooms— Although  the  majority  of  mushrooms  are 
edible  as  well  as  very  delicious,  they  differ  so  little  in  appearance  from 
those  that  are  poisonous— being  of  the  same  family  — that  the  safest 
plan  is  to  purchase  only  those  canned  or  bottled.  They  are  largely 
imported  from  France  and  Germany,  and  this  industry  is  attracting 
considerable  attention  in  this  country.  There  are  two  kinds  used  here, 
the  small  or  button  mushroom,  varying  in  size  from  as  large  as  the 
thumb  joint  to  a  little  larger,  and  a  much  larger  variety  termed  the 
"umbrella,"  from  its  shape.  Those  which  grow  spontaneously  are  in 
season  in  September  and  October.  Those  cultivated  from  mushroom 
spawn  are  grown  in  cellars,  or  very  rich  damp  ground. 

The  cooking  of  mushrooms  may  be  readily  summed  up  in  the 
directions  to  cook  the  same  as  oysters,  stewed,  fried,  broiled,  or  as  a 
soup.  They  are  made  into  various  condiments,  sauces  and  catsups, 
also  dried  and  powdered,  their  flavor  being  added  to  meat  gravies, 
game  or  soup. 

352.  Okra— Grows  in  the  shape  of  pods,  and  is  of  a  gelatinous 
character,  much  used  for  soup,  and  is  also  pickled;  it  may  be  boiled  as 
follows:  Put  the  young  and  tender  pods  of  long  white  okra  in  salted 
boiling  water  in  granite,  porcelain  or  a  tin-lined  sauce-pan— as  contact 
with  iron  will  discolor  it;  boil  fifteen  minutes;  remove  the  stems,  and 
serve  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar  if  preferred. 

353.  Onions— There  are  many  varieties,  of  which  the  Spanish, 
imported  from  Bermuda,  are  the  mildest  and  best;  a  similar  kind  are 
grown  to  some  extent  in  New  Jersey. 

354.  Boiled  Onions— Wash  and  peel;  boil  ten  minutes;  pour 
off  the  water,  and  add  more  boiling  hot;  boil  a  second  time,  and  drain; 
pour  on  more  boiling  water;  add  some  salt,  and  boil  an  hour;  then 
place  in  a  colander,  turn  a  saucer  over  them,  and  press  firmly  to  drive 


78 

off  all  the  water;  put  them  in  a  dish;  add  butter  and  pepper,  and  serve. 
Old  onions  require  about  two  hours  to  boil. 

355.  Baked  Onions — Use  the  large  Spanish  onion,  as  best  for 
this  purpose;  wash  them  clean,  but  do  not  peel,  and  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  slightly  salted  water;  boil  an  hour,  replacing  the  water  with 
more  boiling  hot  as  it  evaporates;  turn  off  the  water,  and  lay  the  onions 
on  a  cloth  to  dry  them  well;  roll  each  one  in  a  piece  of  buttered  tissue 
paper,  twisting  it  at  the  top  to  keep  it  on,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
about  an  hour,  or  until  tender  all  through;  peel  them;  place  in  a  deep 
dish,  and  brown  slightly,  basting  well  with  butter,  for  fifteen  minutes; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  some  melted  butter  over  them. 

356.  Fried  Onions — Slice,  and  boil  ten  minutes  at  a  time  in 
three  waters  (unless  the  Spanish  onions  are  used);  drain,  and  fry  in 
butter  or  beef  drippings,  stirring  often;  season  and  serve  hot. 

357.  Onions  with  Beefsteak — See  Beefsteak  and  Onions,  No. 

102. 

358.  Oyster  Plant — Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oysters — Wash 
thoroughly,  scrape  with  a  knife,  cut  across  in  rather  thin  slices,  stew 
in  water  enough  to  cover  them  until  tender,  putting  in  a  piece  of  salt 
codfish  for  seasoning,  which  remove  before  serving;  thicken  with  flour 
and  butter  rubbed  together;  toast  slices  of  bread,  put  in  a  dish  and 
pour  over;  the  codfish  imparts  an  oyster  flavor.  Or,  after  stewing  until 
tender  in  clear  water  only,  mash,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

359.  Boiled  Parsnips— Wash  and  scrape  them,  and  remove 
any  black  specks  or  blemishes,  and  if  quite  large,  quarter  the  thick  part. 
Put  them  into  boiling  water,  salted  with  one  heaping  tablespoon  to  half 
a  gallon  water;  boil  rapidly  until  tender,  drain,  and  serve  in  a  vegetable 
dish;  is  usually  served  with  salt  fish,  boiled  pork  or  beef. 

360.  Stewed  Parsnips — Wash,  scrape  and  slice  half  an  inch 
thick,  put  in  a  frying-pan  with  half  pint  hot  water  and  a  tablespoon 
butter,  season,  cover  closely,  and  stew  until  the  water  is  all  cooked  out, 
stirring  to  prevent  burning;  they  thould  be  a  cream,  light  brown. 

361.  Fried  Parsnips — Scrape  and  slice  them  lengthwise,  about 
a  quarter  inch  thick,  and  fry  brown  in  a  little  butter  or  clear  beef  drip- 
pings; if  previously  boiled,  they  will  fry  sooner,  or  the  remnants  of 
those  boiled  for  dinner  may  be  used. 

362.  Green  Peas — Do  not  shell  them  much  in  advance  of  the 
time  required  to  cook;  canned  peas  should  be  rinsed  before  using; 
wash  lightly  two  quarts  shelled  peas,  and  put  into  enough  water  to 
cover;  boil  twenty  minutes,  season,  and  add  more  hot  water  to  prevent 
burning,  if  needed;  also  two  tablespoons  butter  smoothly  rubbed  into 
two  of  flour;  stir  well  and  boil  five  minutes  longer;  should  the  pods  be 
quite  clean  and  fresh,  boil  tnem  first  in  the  water,  remove  and  put  in 
the  peas.  The  Germans  prepare  a  very  palatable  dish  of  sweet  young 
pods  alone,  by  simply  stirring  in  a  little  butter  with  some  savory  herbs. 

363.  Peas  Stewed  in  Cream— Into  a  sauce-pan  of  boiling- 
water  put  two  or  three  pints  of  young  green  peas,  and  when  nearly  done 
and  tender,  drain  in  a  colander  dry;  then  melt  two  ounces  butter  in  a 


79 

clean  stew-pan,  thicken  evenly  with  a  little  flour,  and  hold  it  over  the 
fire,  but  do  not  let  it  brown;  mix  in  a  gill  of  cream,  add  half  a  teaspoon 
white  sugar,  bring  to  a  boil,  pour  in  the  peas,  and  keep  the  pan  movmg 
for  two  minutes,  until  well  heated,  and  serve  hot. 

364.  Dry  or  Split  Peas— May  be  prepared  and  served  in  the 
same  manner  in  every  particular  as  dry  beans,  with  the  exception  that 
they  require  to  be  soaked  a  shorter  time  before  cooking. 

Potatoes— Note— This  fine  esculent  of  the  tuber  specie  is  indige- 
nous to  South  America,  where  it  still  grows  wild,  but  is  known  to  and 
provides  food  to  more  than  half  the  civilized  globe.  It  was  early 
domesticated  in  Virginia,  about  Sir  Walter  Raleigh's  time  from  Chili  or 
Peru  and  was  first  introduced  into  England,  about  1586  ;  but  little 
attention  was  given  to  it,  and  it  is  now  but  little  over  one  hundred  years 
since  its  cultivation  has  been  common  even  in  Ireland,  where  it  saves 
half  its  inhabitants  from  fasting  all  the  year  round.  It  is  said  to  have 
been  introduced  there  at  the  time  of  a  famine,  from  which  fact,  as  well 
as  its  forming  the  chief  food  of  the  people,  it  acquired  the  name  of 
Irish  potato,  which  is  now  commonly  used  in  contra-distmction  to  the 
sweet  or  yam  potato.  .       . 

The  potato  differs  more  than  other  vegetables  in  size,  color  or 
quality,  from  the  manner  of  propagation  or  species ;  it  matures  of  all 
sizes,  even  in  its  kind,  and  distinct  varieties  are  either  white,  pink, 
reddish,  or  blueish.  Those  properly  cultivated  in  sandy  soil  will  possess 
much  starch,  and,  as  a  consequence,  will  cook  dry  and  mealy.  _ 

The  o-reen  appearance  frequently  noted  upon  the  skin  of  either 
new  or  old  potatoes  is  produced  by  what  is  known  as  solanine,  arising 
from  exposure  to  the,sun's  rays,  when  the  tuber  is  grown  quite  near  the 
surface  or  partly  out  of  the  ground,  and  even  by  long  exposure  to  the 
light  after  being  gathered.  This  is  developed  both  in  the  sprouts  and 
skin,  and  is  very  unwholesome,  if  not  poisonous,  imparting  an  acrid 
taste  to  the  mouth  and  dryness  to  the  throat.  It  should  be  always  cut 
off,  or  the  potato  entirely  rejected.  . 

To  Select— As  a  general  rule  the  smaller  the  eyes  the  better  the 
potato  Choose  those  of  medium  size,  and  smooth  as  possible.  By 
cutting  a  slice  off  the  larger  end  it  may  be  discovered  if  sound  ;  if 
spotted  or  have  a  large  hollow  they  are  not,  and  therefore  inferior.  Ot 
the  variety  to  select  from  it  depends  greatly  on  the  season  ;  some  sorts 
keep  better  than  others;  others  decay  and  go  out  of  market  as  the  sea- 
son advances,  while  out  of  the  hundreds  of  distinct  species  cultivated 
even  in  this  country,  each  family  will  have  its  favorite.  It  is  a  fact, 
however,  that  those  of  forty  years  ago  are  scarcely  to  be  found  now 
while  those  that  supplanted  them  are  again  superseded  by  later  and 
more  improved  productions  yearly.     Potatoes  should  be  kept  in  a  dark 

but  cool  and  dry  cellar,  to  prevent  vegetating.         

To  Prepare— Old.  potatoes  should  be  peeled  before  boiling  or  stew- 
ing, and  immediately  dropped  into  cold  water,  to  remain  until  required, 
in  order  to  save  them  clear  in  color,  as  exposure  to  the  air  darkens 
•    them  ;  wipe  each  one  dry  before  cooking  ;  for  the  same  reason,  when 
sliced,  let  the  slices  drop  into  a  pan  of  cold  water  to  lie. 


8o 

Peel  matured  potatoes  as  thinly  as  possible,  as  the  better  part  lies 
nearest  the  skin.  Scrape  new  potatoes  also  thinly — when  quite  young 
and  tender  the  skins  may  be  very  easily  removed  with  a  scrubbing- 
brush — then  drop  them  in  water  to  keep  them  white. 

To  Cook — Steaming  is  now  generally  regarded  as  far  preferable 
to  boiling  potatoes;  first,  from  being  more  easily  accomplished,  and 
next,  they  cook  a  little  sooner,  and  if  watched,  frequently  tested,  and 
taken  up  as  soon  as  done,  will  preserve  more  of  the  starch,  t.  e.y  be  more 
mealy  and  dry.  The  great  point  in  steaming,  boiling  or  baking  the 
potato  is  to  know  when  done,  and  act  accordingly,  or  they  will  be 
watery,  or  "soggy,"  as  it  is  homely,  but  expressively,  termed.  .  For  this 
reason,  too,  it  is  essential  that  potatoes  of  a  uniform  size  should  be 
selected  for  each  cooking,  commencing  with  the  largest,  and  continue 
each  time  until  the  supply  is  exhausted.  Quite  large  potatoes,  for 
steaming  or  boiling,  should  be  cut  into  four  parts,  smaller  ones  into 
two,  and  remove  the  middle  or  core,  if  hollow  or  defective,  also  all 
worm  holes  or  other  blemishes.  Very  old  potatoes  may  be  vastly  im- 
proved by  soaking  in  water  over  night;  if  quite  watery,  a  small  piece  of 
lime  dropped  into  the  water  in  which  they  are  boiling  will  cause  them 
to  cook  dryer  than  without.  Some  kinds  of  potatoes  boil  in  pieces 
before  fairly  done;  some  salt  added  to  the  water  will  obviate  this;  they 
will,  however  (as  well  as  any  other  vegetables  when  salted),  be  longer  in 
cooking.  Either  Irish  or  sweet  potatoes,  when  frozen,  should  not  be 
thawed  before  putting  in  to  bake.  New  potatoes  are  better  baked  than 
by  any  other  process  of  cooking,  and  should  be  scrubbed  and  rinsed 
very  clean,  many  persons  regarding  their  delicate  skins  the  more  edible 
part.  New  potatoes  should  be  boiled  in  two  waters;  put  on  two  kettles 
of  water  at  the  same  time,  place  them  in  a  wire  basket,  which  set  into 
one,  and,  when  about  half  done,  change  to  the  other;  matured  potatoes 
will  be  the  better  by  this  process.  Medium  sized  new  potatoes  will 
cook — boiled  or  baked — in  twenty  to  thirty  minutes;  matured  or  old 
ones  in  about  double  that  time,  and  either,  when  peeled,  some  fifteen 
minutes  sooner.  Of  the  various  ways  in  which  potatoes  may  be  cooked, 
or  the  numberless  dishes  of  which  they  form  the  whole  or  in  part, 
hundreds  of  pages  could  be  written. 

365.  Potatoes  a  la  Parisienne — Wash  and  rub,  with  a  coarse 
cloth  or  scrubbing-brush,  new  potatoes,  drop  into  boiling  water  and  boil 
briskly  until  done,  and  no  more;  press  a  potato  against  the  side  of  the 
kettle  with  a  fork;  if  done,  it  will  yield  to  a  gentle  pressure;  in  a  sauce- 
pan have  ready  some  butter  and  cream,  hot,  but  not  boiling,  a  little 
green  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  drain  the  potatoes,  add  the  mixture,  put 
over  hot  water  for  a  minute  or  two,  and  serve. 

366.  Potatoes  a  la  Francaise  {French  Fried) — Peel  and 
slice  the  potatoes  as  nearly  the  same  size  as  possible;  in  a  frying-pan 
have  some  hot  butter  or  drippings,  in  which  fry  the  potatoes  until 
nearly  cooked  both  sides;  take  them  out  of  the  fat  and  make  it  quite 
boiling  hot;  throw  in  the  potatoes  again  for  a  minute  or  two  until  suffi- 
ciently crisp  and  they  are  done;  putting  them  in  a  second  time  to  the  fat 
causes  the  slices  to  swell  or  puff  up,  which  produces  a  light  and  desirable 


8i 

appearance  and  are  delicious ;  after  they  are  done  place  them  in  a 
cloth  before  the  fire  to  drain  out  the  grease;  after  sprinkling  with  salt, 
serve  hot.  4 

367.  Lyonnaise  Potatoes — One  quart  cold  boiled  potatoes  cut 
into  dice,  three  tablespoons  butter,  one  of  chopped  onions  and  one  of 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  season  the  potatoes  with  the  salt  and 
pepper,  fry  the  onions  in  the  butter,  and  wrhen  they  are  yellow  add  the 
potatoes;  stir  with  a  fork,  being  careful  not  to  break  them;  when  hot 
add  the  parsley,  and  cook  two  minutes  longer;  serve  at  once  on  a  hot 
dish. 

368.  Potatoes— Kentucky  Style — Slice  potatoes  thin  on  a 
slaw  cutter  placed  over  a  pan  of  water,  and  .let  stand  half  an  hour, 
which  hardens  them;  put  them  in  a  pudding-dish  or  dripping-pan,  with 
salt,  pepper  and  about  half  a  pint  of  milk;  bake  for  an  hour,  take  out 
and  add  a  lump  of  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg  cut  in  small  bits  and 
scattered  over  the  top.  The  quantity  of  milk  cannot  be  exactly  given; 
enough  to  moisten  the  potatoes,  with  a  little  left  as  a  gravy. 

369.  Saratoga  Chips — Thinly  peel  and  slice  on  a  slaw  cutter 
over  a  pan  of  cold  water  four  large  potatoes,  using  new  when  in  season; 
salt  the  water  and  let  stand  while  breakfast  is  preparing;  take  handfuls 
of  the  potatoes  at  a  time,  drain  and  dry  them  on  a  napkin;  separate  the 
slices  and  drop  a  handful  at  a  time  in  boiling  lard,  without  contact  with 
each  other;  stir  with  a  fork  until  a  light  brown  or  crisp,  as  desired;  skim 
out,  drain  well  and  serve  in  an  open  dish.     Are  very  good  cold  as  well. 

370.  Tremont  Potatoes — Take  cold  boiled  potatoes  of  uni- 
form medium  size  and  split  lengthwise  into  quarters  or  sixths;  fry  like 
doughnuts  in  boiling  lard  until  the  outside  is  browned  or  crisped;  skim 
out  and  drain;  before  serving,  sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  them. 

371.  Ringed  Potatoes — Peel  some  large  sized  potatoes,  then 
cut  them  round  and  round  as  an  apple  is  pared;  fry  in  clean  sweet  lard 
like  fritters  until  brown,  drain  on  a  sieve,  sprinkle  fine  salt  over  them 
and  serve. 

372.  Fried  Raw  Potatoes. — Pare  and  slice  thinly  into  cold 
water  some  medium-sized  potatoes,  drain  in  a  colander  and  put  into  a 
frying-pan  in  which  is  two  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  clarified  drip- 
pings, or  half  of  each;  cover  closely  ten  minutes,  removing  only  to  stir 
them  from  the  bottom  to  keep  from  burning;  cook  another  ten  minutes, 
stirring  until  lightly  browned. 

Sweet  potatoes  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

373.  Boiled  Fried  Potatoes. — After  boiling  let  them  cool, 
or  use  cold  boiled  potatoes;  slice  evenly,  but  only  medium  thin,  and 
cook  same  as  preceding  receipt.  They  will  cook  in  about  half  the  time 
of  raw  potatoes. 

374.  Mashed  Potatoes — Note — Simple  as  the  operation 
would  appear,  some  skill  is  required  to  mash  potatoes  properly,  and  for 

.  this  purpose  the  old  wooden  masher  is  preferable  to  the  perforated  iron 


82 

one  more  recently  in  vogue.  When  mashed  they  should  be  dipped  out 
lightly  into  a  hot  covered  dish  and  delicately  shaped  into  a  mealy  heap, 
instead  of  being  stirred,  packed  and  patted  into  a  rounded  mass. 

Pare  potatoes  and  boil;  drain  and  mash  in  the  kettle  until  devoid 
of  lumps;  add  milk  or  cream,  butter  and  salt;  beat  like  cake  with  a 
large  spoon;  the  longer  the  better;  turn  them  into  a  covered  dish, 
smooth  over  the  top,  place  a  lump  of  butter  in  the  center;  do  not  serve 
them  too  moist. 

Or,  when  mashed,  add  one  or  two  eggs,  well  beaten;  pepper  and 
salt;  put  them  in  a  baking  dish,  brush  over  the  top  with  sweet  milk, 
and  place  in  a  hot  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

375*  Potato  Balls — Mash  six  boiled  potatoes  and  add  enough 
cream  or  milk  to  make  them  a  little  soft;  half  a  cup  of  grated  ham — the 
bits  too  dry  for  other  purposes  may  be  grated— a  teaspoon  chopped 
parsley,  and  half  a  teaspoon  each  of  pepper  and  salt,  less  of  the  latter 
if  the  ham  is  rather  salt;  mix  all  well  and  stir  in  the  yelks  of  two  eggs; 
form  into  little  balls  and  fry  a  light  brown.  Serve  with  a  good  brown 
gravy. 

376.  Potato  Snow — Take  large  and  very  white  potatoes,  free 
from  spots  or  blemishes  as  possible,  and  boil  them  in  their  skins  in  salt 
and  water  until  perfectly  tender,  but  not  overdone;  drain  and  dry  them 
thoroughly  near  the  fire,  and  peel;  put  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire,  and 
rub  the  potatoes  through  a  coarse  sieve  on  to  it;  do  not  touch  them 
afterwards  or  the  flakes  will  fall;  serve  as  hot  as  possible.  Six  potatoes  is 
sufficient  for  three  persons. 

377.  Potatoes  for  Ea;ch  Day  of  the  Week— On  Sunday, 
peel,  steam  and  mash;  add  milk,  butter  and  salt,  and  then  steam  and 
beat  up  like  cake  batter  until  nice  and  light;  the  longer  the  better. — 
Monday,  baked  potatoes  in  the  skins;  be  sure  to  take  up  when  done,  or 
they  will  be  wrinkled  and  watery;  if  not  served  immediately,  do  them 
up  in  a  napkin  and  tie  close  to  keep  hot. — Tuesday,  peel  them  and  bake 
with  roast  beef,  cooking  them  under  the  meat. — Wednesday,  prepare  in 
Kentucky  style  (see  No.  368).— Thursday,  peel,  steam  and  serve  whole. 
— Friday,  peel,  cut  in  thin  slices  lengthwise,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  fry  on  a  griddle  greased  with  butter  or  beef  drippings,  and 
turn  like  pancakes. — Saturday,  potatoes  boiled  in  their  jackets. 

378.  Sweet  Potatoes — Note — There  are  doubts  as  to  their 
origin,  the  evidence  being  in  favor  of  both  American  and  East  India  ma- 
ternity; was  known  to  Europe  very  long  before  the  Irish  potato.  A  variety 
known  at  the  South  as  yam  potatoes  is  regarded  as  one  of  the  best,  and 
are  there  generally  called  yams  only.  It  is  but  a  few  years  since 
they  have  been  cultivated  north  of  Virginia,  but  they  are  now  produced 
in  Ohio,  Illinois  and  some  other  Western  States  and  in  New  Jersey. 
Those  from  the  warmer  climates  are  yellow  in  external  appearance, 
while  those  of  the  North  vary  from  a  dirty  to  a  pinkish  red.  The  best 
are  brought  from  Carolina,  Virginia  or  Georgia,  and  the  next  from  New 
Jersey. 


83 

To  Cook  —  The  cookery  of  the  sweet  potato,  yam  potato  or 
yam,  may  be  briefly  summed  up  by  directions  to  cook  them  in  all 
ways  and  particulars  as  directed  for  the  common  or  Irish  potato. 
They  require  a  longer  time  to  cook,  however. 

379.  Sweet  Potatoes — Dress  them  clean  and  bake  in  an  oven 
an  hour,  or  place  in  a  steamer  and  steam  from  a  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour;  or,  when  steamed  and  nearly,  done,  scrape  and  peel  them, 
place  in  a  pan  and  bake  half  an  hour;  or,  cut  them  (steamed  or  boiled) 
in  slices  and  fry  in  butter  or  lard;  or,  peel  and  slice  when  raw,  and  fry  a 
layer  at  a  time  on  a  griddle  or  in  a  frying-pan,  with  a  little  melted  lard, 
using  care  not  to  cook  them  too  long,  or  they  will  become  hard;  or, 
drop  in  boiling  lard  in  a  frying-pan,  turn  them  till  a  nice  brown  on  both 
sides;  or,  halve  or  quarter  them  and  bake  in  a  pan  with  roast  beef, 
basting  them  often  with  its  drippings. 

380.  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes — Wash,  scrape  and  split  them 
lengthwise;  steam  them  half  an  hour,  and  then  put  them  in  a  pan  with 
lumps  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar,  and  bake 
a  nice  brown.  Cook  the  Hubbard  squash  in  the  same  manner,  and 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  sugar  they  closely  resemble  this  dish. 

381.  Salsify — See  Oyster  Plant,  No.  358. 

382.  Summer  Squash  or  Cymlings — By  pressing  the  nail 
through  the  skin  you  can  tell  whether  young,  and  consequently  tender. 
If  young,  boil  whole  without  peeling  or  removing  the  seeds;  or  cut 
across  in  thick  slices;  use  as  little  water  as  possible  (or  steam  them) 
for  half  to  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  drain  thoroughly;  mash,  and  set 
back  to  dry  out  most  of  the  remaining  moisture  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally;  then  season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and 
a  little  cream.  If  old  ones  are  used,  cut  them  up,  take  out  the  seeds, 
and  season  as  above;  they  will  require  somewhat  longer  time  to  boil. 

383.  Winter  Squash  or  Pumpkin — Cut  them  up,  take  out 
the  inside;  pare  the  pieces,  and  stew  in  as  little  water  as  possible;  cook 
an  hour;  mash  them  in  the  kettle,  and  if  too  moist  or  watery,  let  it  stand 
on  the  fire  a  short  time  until  dry,  stirring  to  prevent  burning;  season 
with  butter,  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  If  not  very  sweet,  a  little  sugar 
will  improve  it.  They  may  also  be  steamed,  and  served  either  in  the 
shell  or  scraped  out;  put  in  a  pan  mashed,  seasoned  as  above,  and 
again  made  hot  before  serving. 

Hubbard  squash  may  be  baked  in  the  same  manner  as  sweet 
potatoes.     See  No.  380. 

384.  Tomato — Note — This  highly  popular  vegetable,  like  the 
potato,  is  a  native  of  South  America.  But  little  over  fifty  years  ago 
the  tomato  was  not  used  in  the  Northern  States,  and  seldom  in  the 
South,  and  when  grown  it  was  as  a  curiosity  or  garden  ornament. 

The  tomato  is  utilized  in  a  great  variety  of  ways,  both  when  the 
fruit  is  green  and  ripe,  being  eaten  raw,  baked,  boiled  or  stewed,  while 
it  forms  an  invaluable  ingredient  in  soups,  stews  and  sauces.  It  is 
made  into  condiments,  as  catsup  or  tomato  butter,  and  pickled  and 


84 

preserved  in  various  ways.  The  art  of  canning  has  also  made  it  avail- 
able all  the  year,  in  nearly  as  good  a  state  essentially  as  the  fresh  fruit 
in  season.  It  is  thought  to  produce  dietetic  effects,  and  is  doubtless 
one  of  the  most  healthful  vegetables  grown,  either  raw  or  cooked  in 
any  manner.  In  purchasing  tomatoes,  select  those  of  medium  size, 
solid  and  smooth  skinned,  and  with  the  least  warts  or  blemishes  about 
the  stem  end. 

385.  To  serve  fresh  Tomatoes— Pour  boiling  water  on  to 
the  tomatoes  until  they  are  covered;  cover  and  let  them  stand  until 
the  skins  begin  to  crack,  when  they  may  be  easily  peeled;  put  them  on 
ice,  and  let  them  remain  until  perfectly  cold;  then  slice  and  serve  with 
dressing,  or  with  powdered  sugar,  salt,  pepper,  and  vinegar.  Claret 
instead  of  vinegar  is  considered  by  many  quite  a  fine  dressing,  but  use 
no  salt  or  pepper.     Never  serve  tomatoes  without  peeling. 

386.  Baked  Tomatoes — Take  eight  or  ten  tomatoes,  peel 
and  slice  rather  thick,  and  put  into  a  deep  baking-dish;  season  liberally 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  two  ounces  butter;  cover  over  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  then  pour  over  a  little  butter  clarified  by  heating,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  a  third  to  half  an  hour.     Serve  hot. 

387.  Stewed  Tomatoes — After  scalding  and  peeling,  cut 
them  into  a  stewpan;  season  and  let  them  simmer  (not  boil)  for  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  May  be  cooked  with  soft  bread-crumbs  or 
small  squares  of  bread,  using  nearly  as  much  bread  or  crumbs  as 
tomato,  adding  it  after  they  are  nearly  done. 

388.  Stuffed  and  Baked  Tomatoes — From  the  blossom  end 
of  a  dozen  tomatoes — smooth,  ripe  and  solid — cut  a  thin  slice,  and  with 
a  small  spoon  scoop  out  the  pulp  without  breaking  the  rind  surrounding 
it;  chop  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  a  good-sized  onion  finely,  and 
mix  with  them  fine  bread-crumbs  and  the  pulp;  season  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  sugar,  and  add  a  cup  sweet  cream;  when  all  is  well  mixed,  fill 
the  tomato  shells,  replace  the  slices,  and  place  the  tomatoes  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish,  cut  ends  up,  and  put  in  the  pan  just  enough  water  to  keep 
from  burning;  drop  a  small  lump  of  butter  on  each  tomato,  and  bake 
half  an  hour  or  so,  till  well  done;  place  another  bit  of  butter  on  each, 
and  serve  in  same  dish. 

389.  Turnips — Wash,  peel,  cut  in  thin  slices  across  the  grain, 
and  place  in  a  kettle  with  as  little  water  as  possible;  boil  until  tender 
and  you  can  easily  pierce  them  with  a  fork;  drain  well,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  butter;  mash  fine  and  place  on  the  stove,  frequently 
stirring  until  all  water  is  dried  out;  do  not  boil  too  long,  as  they  are 
sweeter  when  quickly  cooked.  They  may  be  steamed,  instead  of  boiled, 
and  in  fact  are  finer  in  that  way.     They  may  also  be  baked. 

*^  390.  Dried  Turnips — Pare,  slice  and  cut  them  in  dice  an  inch 
square,  boil  till  nearly  done  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  and  to  one 
quart  turnip  add  a  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste;  when  boiled 
as  dry  as  possible  without  burning,  add  two  or  three  spoons  of  cream,  a 
beaten  eggt  and  serve.  Slices  of  turnip  or  parsnip  left  from  a  boiled 
dinner  are  nice  browned  in  a  little  butter  the  next  day. 


Schenck's  Adjustable 


Any  Housekeeper  in  the  land  can  repair  the  Cook 
Stove— put  in  new  Fire  Backs,  new  Grates  and  new 
Linings— by  using  SCZZSN'OK'S 

ADJUSTABLE  STOVE  REPAIRS. 

Sold  by  all  Ilardware  and  Stove  Dealers. 
Send  for  Circulars.    Manufactured  only  by 

Schenck's  Adjustable  Fire  Back  Co9, 
94  Market  Street,  CHICAGO. 


A.  HELLEE. 


by  water  beating  under  outside 

doors  from  storms,  etc.,   send 

your  address  to  HOWARD  MFG.  CO. 

94  Market  Street,  CHICAGO. 


^ACTIONAL   SPIGE   QQlIiLS. 


T.  F.  TALMAGE. 


HELLER  &  TALMAGE, 


Manufacturers  and  Dealers  in 


TEAS,  COFFEES,  SPICES 

BAKING  POWDER,  EXTRACTS,  ETC., 

No.  61  South  Market  Street,  CHICAGO. 

PRICE  LIST  FORWARDED  ON  APPLICATION. 

We  make  a  specialty  in  putting  up  our  National  Coffee  in  one  pound 
package,  far  superior  to  any  that  is  put  up. 

ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR  IX. 


Phillip  Best  Brewing  Company 


OF 


-^MILWAUKEE,  WIS.'V- 


MANUFACTURERS    OF    THE    CELEBRATED 


Export, 
Bohemian  and  Select 


AT   THEIR 


Empire®  South  Side  Breweries. 

CHICAGO    BRANCH    HOUSES: 

Corner  Indiana  and  Desplaines  Streets, 

Corner  Halsted  and  Meagher  Streets. 

Bottling  Department :   Telephone  4383. 


J.   S.   PIERCE,  General  Agent. 


EGGS  AND  MACARONI. 


Eggs — Note — The  nutritive  qualities  of  eggs  are  much  greater  than 
that  of  meat;  those  of  different  birds  vary,  however,  in  this  respect.  Those 
of  the  domestic  hen  are  most  esteemed  and  used;  those  of  the  turkey 
are  nearly  as  mild  as  those  of  the  hen,  and  that  of  the  goose  is  larger,  but 
about  as  preferable  for  most  culinary  purposes.  Duck  eggs  have  a  richer 
flavor,  but  not  so  desirable  to  be  eaten  alone,  although  preferred  by  some, 
as  either  of  the  above.  They  are,  however,  as  good  for  all  purposes  of 
cookery,  and  for  puddings  or  custards  are  superior  to  any;  when  boiled 
they  require  less  time  than  for  those  of  the  hen.  The  eggs  of  nearly 
all  game  birds  are  edible,  and  partake  somewhat  of  the  bird,  and  are 
generally  colored  or  mottled.  Those  of  the  sea-fowl  have  a  strong, 
fishy  flavor  and  are  little  esteemed,  while  those  of  the  plover,  thrush, 
pheasant,  etc.,  are  highly  so.  The  eggs  of  the  turtle,  consisting  of  yelk 
only,  without  shell,  are  very  numerous,  and  are  quite  delicious. 

The  delicate  nature  of  the  egg  render  them  acceptable  to  the  weak 
stomachs  of  invalids,  and  they  are  quite  nourishing  when  admissible, 
but  will  not  agree  with  all.  The  yelk  alone  is  the  better  for  invalids, 
and  will  be  frequently  relished  when  the  wh;te  would  be  rejected. 
Poaching  is  the  lightest  way  of  cooking  eggs,  and  is  simply  a  raw  egg 
broken  for  a  minute  into  hot  water,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  yelk. 
Eggs  are  also  used  in  nutritive  beverages,  beaten  up  raw;  the  yelks 
alone  are  often  used  for  this  purpose. 

To  Select — Eggs  are  more  wholesome  soon  after  being  laid,  and  the 
sooner  they  are  used  the  better.  There  is  probably  nothing  more 
vexatious  to  the  housekeeper  than  for  eggs  to  turn  out  addled  in 
the  act  of  using,  for  which  reason  care  should  be  used  in  their  selec- 
tion. Do  not  rely  upon  the  specious  placard  or  assertion  of  tradesmen 
that  their  eggs  are  "  strictly  fresh"  but  examine  each  one  yourself,  and 
the  result  will  repay  the  trouble.  There  are  several  methods  to  ascer- 
tain their  state.  First  place  the  large  end  against  the  tongue;  if  slightly 
warm  it  is  sound;  or  look  through  it  before  the  sun  or  a  light  in  a  dark- 
ened room;  if  it  looks  clear  and  the  yelk  can  be  readily  seen  it  is  good, 
but  if  a  dark  spot  appears  it  is  the  contrary.  This  last  method  is 
termed  "candleing"  by  dealers;  or  they  may  be  tested  by  placing 
in  water  sufficient  to  cover;  those  that  lie  flat  are  sound,  but  those  that 
stand  on  end  are  unsound.  When  an  egg  emits  a  sound  when  shaken 
it  is  utterly  decayed,  and,  of  course,  should  be  rejected.  Eggs  that  are 
purchased  and  cannot  be  entirely  relied  upon  should  be  broken  separately 
into  a  cup;  the  stale  egg  will  not  then  waste  others.  Eggs  vary  so  much 
in  size  that  they  properly  should  be  sold  by  weight;  the  average  of  full- 
sized,  plump  hen's  eggs  should  be  22^  ounces  per  dozen,  and  those  of 
the  larger  variety  of  hen's  24  ounces. 

To  Keep  -Eggs — Any  method  which  will  effectually  exclude  the 
air   from   the   inside  of    the   shell   will    preserve   eggs   for   a   certain 


88 

time,  and  the  following  are  among  the  best,  some  of  the  results  of  long 
experience  by  egg  packers  or  dealers.  Eggs  for  packing  should  not  be 
more  than  one  day  laid,  and  packed  in  fine,  clear  weather,  the  best  sea- 
son being  from  April  to  September. 

An  old-time  way  of  packing  was  to  immerse  them  in  lime  water 
and  set  them  away  in  a  cool  cellar;  this,  although  usually  successful  for 
some  weeks,  often  destroyed  the  eggs  by  keeping  them  in  it  too  long, 
or  the  preservative  was  apt  to  be  made  too  strong,  and  the  shells  were 
soon  eaten;  it  also  to  some  extent  discolored  the  shell.  A  better  manner 
and  quite  simple  is  to  pack  them  in  salt  in  a  stone  jar;  a  layer  of  salt 
two  inches  thick  first,  and  alternate  layers  of  eggs  and  salt  to  fill  the  jar, 
the  eggs  standing  on  the  larger  end,  a  thick  layer  of  salt  to  cover  the  top; 
put  on  the  stone  cover  and  set  in  a  cool,  but  not  in  a  place  where  they 
may  freeze  in  winter.  Or  put  the  eggs  into  a  cabbage  net  or  wire  basket, 
twenty  at  a  time,  and  hold  them  in  boiling  water  for  twenty  seconds; 
no  longer;  repeat  until  all  are  boiled,  and  pack  away  in  sawdust;  they  will 
keep  for  two  or  three  months  quite  good  enough  for  any  culinary  pur- 
poses. Or  dissolve  gum  arabic  (a  cheap  quality  will  do)  to  consistency 
of  thin  mucilage,  and  apply  to  each  egg  with  a  brush;  pack  them  in 
powdered  charcoal  and  place  in  a  cool,  dark  place;  wash  when  required 
for  use. 

391.  Boiled  Eggs— There  is  a  very  general  mistake  about 
boiling  eggs.  To  be  healthful  and  most  digestible,  the  eggs  should  be 
cooked  evenly,  the  white  and  yelk  alike;  in  the  rapid  boiling  by  the 
usual  rule  of  three  to  four  minutes  for  soft,  or  five  minutes  for  medium, 
the  white  becomes  toughened  before  the  yelk  is  scarcely  cooked.  To 
remedy  this  and  render  them  not  only  more  palatable  and  nutritious, 
and  less  indigestible,  boil  them  in  a  vessel  having  a  tight  fitting  cover 
(a  common  tin  pail  will  answer  admirably),  put  in  the  eggs  and  pour 
boiling  water  upon  them,  about  two  quarts  of  water  to  a  dozen  eggs; 
cover  tight  and  set  off  the  stove;  in  about  seven  minutes  remove  the 
cover,  turn  the  eggs,  replace  the  cover;  in  six  or  seven  miruites  more 
they  will  be  done,  if  but  two  or  three  eggs;  if  more,  in  about  ten  min- 
utes. Formerly,  an  egg  boiler  was  a  regular  appurtenance  of  the  break- 
fast table — an  oval-shaped  can  six  inches  high,  with  capacity  for  a  dozen 
eggs,  which  were  placed  on  a  movable  rack  like  a  castor,  having  large 
holes  in  which  to  set  each  egg;  two  lids  hinged  at  either  end  closely 
covered  it.  Raw  eggs  were  placed  on  the  table  with  boiling  water,  and 
the  duty  of  boiling  them  devolved  upon  the  lady  or  daughter  of  the 
house.  This  is  the  nearest  approach  to  the  production  of  properly 
boiled  eggs,  as  above  given,  and  although  long  gone  into  disuse,  it  is 
one  of  the  things  to  be  regretted.  It  is,  however,  still  in  vogue  in  Eng- 
land— where  it  originated — in  old  families.  By  the  ordinary  methods, 
eggs  boil  soft  in  three  minutes,  medium  in  four,  hard  in  five  to  six,  and 
very  hard,  for  garnishes  or  sandwiches,  in  ten  to  fifteen,  provided  the 
water  is  kept  boiling  from  the  time  they  are  put  in.  They  are  less 
liable  to  crack  when  put  in  water  not  quite  at  the  boiling  point.  Also 
place  them  in  water  carefully,  one  at  a  time,  with  a  large  spoon.  Very 
fresh  eggs  require  a  little  longer  to  cook,  in  any  manner,  than  older  ones. 


89 

392.  Omelets— The  variety  of  omelets  made,  especially  by  the 
French,  who  originated  them,  is  very  numerous.  The  filling,  whatever  it 
may  be,  is  put  in  when  it  is  folded  or  turned,  and  the  manner  of  making 
a  plain  omelefwill  serve  as  to  the  material  process  for  all.  Among  the 
fillings  used  are  fine  herbs  {Omelette  aux  Fine  Herbs),  selecting  any 
favored;  any  kind  of  preserves,  jelly  or  jam  [Omelette  aux  Comfiture), 
chopped  boiled  ham  or  bacon,  cold  veal  minced;  sweetened  or  flavored 
with  vanilla,  lemon  extract  or  the  yellow,  not  the  inner  rind  {Omelette 
Souffle),  minced  onion,  shallot  or  grated  cheese;  oysters  are  also  used, 
by  first  scalding  them  in  their  liquor,  removing  the  beards,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.  With  the  exception  of  the  Souffle  they  are  all  made 
alike. 

393.  Plain  Omelet — In  compounding  the  omelet  it  is  optional 
whether  to  beat  the  whole  egg  or  to  beat  the  whites  and  yelks  separately, 
or  to  add  flour  and  milk  or  milk  alone;  but  if  desired  soft,  milk  should 
be  used;  when  separated  do  not  beat  the  yelk  too  much  or  they  will  be 
too  thin;  beat  the  white  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  lastly;  melt  about  one 
ounce  of  butter  for  four  or  five  eggs  in  a  thin  long-handled  frying-pan 
very  hot,  next  to  burning;  pour  in  the  egg,  which,  if  the  pan  is  properly 
heated,  will  at  once  bubble  up;  break  the  bubbles,  shake  the  pan  con- 
tinually, and  slip  a  knife  under  frequently  to  prevent  burning;  and 
when  the  bottom  is  hard  enough  to  hold  together  and  the  top  partly 
cooked  loosen  up  one  side  and  turn  it  over  the  other,  tipping  up  the  pan 
at  the  same  time  on  the  side  from  which  it  is  turned;  the  time  to  add 
any  filling  mentioned  above  is  just  before  it  is  turned;  place  it  on  the 
egg  in  the  cavity  of  the  tipped  pan  and  fold  the  other  side  over  it;  loosen 
the  omelet  free  from  the  pan,  and  if  desired  browned  on  both  sides, 
skillfully  flap  it  over,  let  it  brown  a  moment  and  slip  it  off  the  pan  to  a 
hot  platter. 

394.  Plain  Omelet — Having  prepared  the  eggs  as  desired  in 
quantity  and  ingredients,  of  egg,  milk  or  flour,  put  about  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  the  pan  (sufficient  for  eight  eggs)  and  shake  it  about  quickly 
to  have  it  melt  evenly,  and  cover  the  whole  inside  of  the  pan;  as  soon 
as  very  hot  pour  in  the  prepared  egg,  which  stir  and  move  about  to 
cause  it  to  cook  as  evenly  as  possible;  should  some  part  adhere  to  the 
pan  raise  it  there  with  a  knife,  and  adding  a  little  butter,  allow  it  to 
run  under;  it  must  be  done  quickly;  when  cooked  soft  or  hard,  to  taste, 
run  the  knife  under  one-half  the  omelet  nearest  the  handle,  and  turn  that 
part  over  the  other  so  as  to  nearly  or  quite  double  it;  then,  having  an 
oval  dish  or  small  platter  in  the  left  hand,  hold  the  pan  with  the  right, 
the  thumb  lying  along  the  handle  instead  of  the  fingers;  incline  the 
dish  by  raising  the  left  side;  place  the  front  edge  of  the  pan  (opposite 
handle)  on  the  edge  of  the  dish,  turn  it  upside  down,  and  the  omelet  is 
dished,  bottom  or  browned  side  up,  and  sightly. — Prof.  Blot. 

Three  eggs  make  a  good  sized  omelet  for  one  or  two;  for  more 
persons  it  is  better  to  make  several  small  ones  than  one  very  large  one; 
omelets  are  generally  preferred  soft  inside;  they  should  be  made  quick, 
in  three  to  five  minutes. 


go 

395.  Omelet  Souffle — Separate  the  yelks  from  the  whites  of 
six  eggs;  add  to  the  former  five  ounces  powdered  sugar  and  a  table- 
spoon of  flour  (rice  flour  is  best),  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  orange  flower 
water  or  lemon  rind;  stir  all  well  together;  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  mix  them  lightly  with  the  batter;  put  in  a  sauce-pan  three  ounces 
of  butter,  melt  it  over  a  bright  but  gentle  fire,  and  when  the  omelet  is 
set  turn  the  edges  over  to  make  it  of  oval  shape,  and  turn  it  off  as 
directed  above  on  to  a  granite  or  porcelain  pie  dish  previously  well 
buttered;  place  it  in  the  oven  and  bake  twelve  to  fifteen  minutes; 
sprinkle  finely  powdered  sugar  over  it  and  serve  immediately;  is  suffi- 
cient for  three  or  four  persons. 

396.  Scrambled  Eggs — Heat  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  then  rub 
a  tablespoon  of  butter  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  and  stir  into  the  boiling 
milk.     Into  this  put  six  well- beaten  eggs  and  stir  until  thick. 

397.  Baked  Eggs — Break  eight  eggs  into  a  well  buttered  dish, 
put  in  pepper  and  salt,  bits  of  butter  and  three  tablespoons  cream;  set 
it  in  the  oven,  bake  twenty  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

MACARONI. 

398.  Macaroni — Originally  only  of  Italian  production,  is  now 
extensively  manufactured  and  used  in  this  country.  It  is  produced 
from  slightly-moistened  wheat  flour,  pressed  into  hollow  tubes  by  great 
force.  The  harder  the  wheat  from  which  the  flour  is  made  the  better. 
The  best  is  of  a  yellowish  color,  swells  to  about  four  times  its  original 
bulk,  and  does  not  break  in  cooking. 

399.  Macaroni  a  la  Riccadonna — Put  a  two-pound  can  of 
tomatoes  in  a  sauce-pan  and  let  simmer  three  to  four  hours,  until  they 
become  quite  thick  and  jelly-like;  in  the  meantime  take  half  a  pound 
salt  pork  and  one  large  onion,  both  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  to  a 
nice  brown,  taking  care  not  to  burn;  pour  them  into  the  tomatoes,  and 
let  the  whole  simmer  together;  cover  the  macaroni  with  boiling  water 
and  boil  for  twenty-five  minutes;  drain,  put  on  a  platter,  and  pour  over 
it  the  tomato  sauce  and  put  a  generous  sprinkling  of  grated  cheese  over 
the  whole. 

400.  Macaroni — Boil  the  macaroni  in  water  until  tender, 
which  will  be  about  twenty  minutes;  mix  a  dessertspoon  of  flour  with  a 
tablespoon  butter;  add  half  a  cup  milk,  half  teaspoon  mustard,  the 
same  of  salt  and  pepper,  a  quarter  teaspoon  cayenne,  and  four  ounces 
grated  cheese;  stir  all  together  and  boil  ten  minutes;  drain  the  water 
from  the  macaroni  and  pour  over  it  the  dressing;  boil  up  once  and 
serve  hot. 


P.  J.  PROBECK, 

No.  62 h  W.  Clark  St., 

CHICAGO,    ILL. 


DEALER    IN 


Crockery,  Glass  §  Earthenware 

Lamps,  Cutlery,  Etc. 

FINE   GOODS   AT   LOWEST   PRICES 


Housekeepers'  Orders  promptly  filled  and  Goods  delivered 
at  any  part  of  the  city- 

Fuller  &  Mills, 

(J.  W.  MILLS,) 

SUCCESSORS    TO 

FIR 


(ESTABLISHED   1873.) 


Steam  Carpet  Cleaning  Works 

70  &  72  W.  Washington  Street, 

One  block  from  carriage  entrance  to  Tunnel. 


THE  BEST  IS  ALWAYS  THE  CHEAPEST! 


If  you  want  a  Perfect  Article,  ask  for 

BELDING  BROS.  &  CO'S 

-HjcSUPERIOEsM- 

SPOOL  SILKS 

Sewing,  Saddlers',  Embroidery  and  Pure 
Thread  Knitting  Silks. 


We  manufacture  the  ONLY  PURE  THREAD  KNITTING  SILKS  in  the 
market*  all  others  being  made  from  Spun  Silk,  which  has  very  little  strength 
or  durability,  and  is  [really  not  worth  the  knitting.  Our  Goods  have 
taken  the 

First  Premium  Over  All  Competitors 

at  all  places  where  placed  on  exhibition  in  contest  for  premiums.     We  have 
been  awarded 

Two  Gold  Medals, 

the  ONLY  ONES  ever  awarded  to  any  silk  manufacturer  in  the  world. 

Our  Goods  are  for  sale  by  all  prominent  dealers  in  the 
United  States,  Canada,  British  Possessions,  South  America  and 
Australia. 


183, 185  &  187  FIFTH  AVE., CHICAGO. 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

Soup Note — To  produce  the  most  nutritious  and  palatable  soups 

is  an  art  in  which  the  French  especially  excel,  forming  the  greater  part 
of  the  food  of  the  people.  Italian  cooks  also  produce  very  fine  pottage 
or  broths. 

401.  Soup  Stock— The  foundation  for  all  soups  is  lean  meat- 
beef,  veal  or  game — to  which  is  added  the  broken  bones  of  the  same, 
of  fowls,  or  small  bits  of  ham  bone  saved  from  time  to  time,  and  boiled 
down  in  the  stock  kettle.  When  highly  concentrated  by  boiling  it  will 
be  a  jelly-like  compound,  and  the  impurities  having  been  precipitated 
it  is  left  clear  for  ready  use.  For  clear  soups  a  white  stock  should  be 
used  the  base  being  veal  or  fowls,  instead  of  beef.  Soups  are  also 
compounded  of  different  fish,  shell-fish,  frogs,  etc.,  or  of  vegetables,  of 
which  dry  beans  or  peas  are  prominent  and  very  nutritious.  The 
proportion  of  beef  to  use  in  compounding  stock  is  a  pound  of  meat  to  a 
quart  of  water.  In  using  fresh  meats  for  soups,  instead  of  stock,  put 
the  meat,  properly  cut  up,  into  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  to  draw  out 
the  juice  until  it  begins  to  color  the  water,  and  then  put  in  to  boil. 
The  soup  is  done  when  the  meat  is  destitute  of  juice. 

For  either  soup  or  stock  the  coarser  parts  of  beef  may  be  utilized, 
as  the  neck,  flank  or  a  soup  bone  (the  shank  of  the  fore-quarter  or 
hock  of  the  hind-quarter),  the  fat  being  mostly  removed  before  boiling, 
and  the  balance  can  be  entirely  removed  when  cold.  Mutton  is  too 
strong  in  flavor  for  good  stock,  and  should  not  be  used,  while  veal, 
although  quite  gelatinous,  adds  very  little  in  nutriment..  Good  soups 
are  free  from  grease. 

The  seasoning  or  flavors  for  soups  are  quite  numerous,  and  vary 
according  to  taste,  the  plainer  having  simply  pepper  and  salt;  the  richer 
have  many  flavors,  blended  in  such  a  manner  that  no  one  predominates; 
this  is  really  the  great  secret  in  soup  making.  The  herbs  most  in  use 
by  skilled  cooks  are  sage,  mint,  thyme,  tarragon,  basel,  parsley,  bay 
leaves,  sweet  marjoram,  summer  savor;  onions  and  garlic  are  used  in 
such  small  quantities  that  they  add  their  flavor  almost  imperceptibly. 
Of  spices,  cloves,  mace,  celery-seed,  white,  red  and  black  pepper,  or 
red  capsicum  pods  in  very  small  quantities.  Macaroni,  vermicelli,  rice, 
sago,  pearled  barley  (in  mutton  broth),  generally  afford,  when  used, 
their  names  to  the  soup,  while  vegetable  soups  are  also  compounded  of 
onions,  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips,  celery,  etc.,  all  chopped  and  blended 
together,  the  proportions  of  each  being  ad  libitum.  Noodles  also  form 
a  common  addition  to  several  soups.  The  best  sour>  makers  have  a 
fine  sense  of  taste,  as  the  proportions  of  ingredients  or  flavors  cannot 
be  given  by  rule  for  the  finer  productions,  but  must  be  left  to  the  judg- 
ment for  delicacy  in  compounding. 

When  soups  form  the  principal  dish  they  should  be  richer  than 
when  they  precede  meats  or  fowls  in  regular  course. 


94 

Thickened  soups  should  be  seasoned  higher  than  thin  ones,  and 
white  or  clear  soups  should  be  strained  through  a  hair  sieve  or  fine  cloth. 

Coloring  is  used  in  some  brown  soups,  the  chief  of  which  is  burnt 
sugar;  this  it  also  known  as  caramel  by  French  cooks. 

The  fat  removed  from  soup  or  when  compounding  stock  may  be 
clarified  by  melting  and  pouring  it  in  a  bowl  containing  a  little  hot 
water.  When  cold,  all  sediment  or  impurities  may  be  removed  from  the 
bottom  of  the  jelly  (or  cake,  if  boiled  down),  and  the  clear  fat  utilized 
in  many  processes  of  cookery. 

The  more  delicate  flavors  should  ^e  added  to  soups  just  before 
serving,  or  they  will  be  destroyed  by  evaporation.  Stock  may'be  varied 
in  flavor  by  the  addition  of  a  little  anchovy  or  Worcestershire  sauce, 
sugar,  calve's  foot  or  ham  as  predominant;  vegetables  boiled  with  stock 
will  prevent  its  keeping.  Bone  and  gristle,  possessing  the  gelatine 
matter  necessary  to  solidify,  are  requisite  for  stock  to  jell.  Meat  alone 
will  produce  a  broth  only  equal  to  beef  tea.  Roast  beef  bones,  or  those 
of  steak  after  cooking,  make  good  stock  by  the  addition  of  some  fresh 
meat  to  furnish  more  nutriment. 

402.  English  Game  Soup  (for  25  persons) — There  are  four 
stages  in  the  production  of  this  soup. 

1.  Make  a  rich  broth  of  the  bones  and  frames  of  two  dozen,  or 
more,  prairie  chicken  or  other  wild  birds;  then  put  into  a  sauce-pan  four 
large  or  six  small  carrots,  two  onions,  a  little  celery  and  leek,  two  table- 
spoons salt,  ten  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  and  pepper-corns,  and  a  teaspoon 
of  mace;  add  the  broth,  diluted  with  water  to  four  gallons,  if  not  that 
quantity;  set  all  on  a  hot  fire,  and  when  it  boils,  skim;  let  it  boil  down 
to  about  a  gallon  and  a  half;  then  strain  through  a  medium  sieve,  rub- 
bing through  it  the  vegetables  and  what  meat  comes  off  the  bones; 
place  it  in  another  sauce-pan  on  the  fire,  and  boil  half  an  hour. 

2.  Boil  the  breasts  only  of  six  or  eight  prairie  chicken,  ducks, 
or  other  game  birds,  of  dark  meat  (or  venison  may  be  used),  in  a  por- 
tion of  the  broth;  take  them  out,  cut  into  squares  or  dice,  and  set 
aside,  but  kept  warm  until  the  soup  is  nearly  completed. 

3.  Melt  in  a  small  stew-pan  half  a  pound  of  butter,  to  which 
add  two  tablespoons  browned  flour  and  some  of  the  broth;  let  it  boil  for 
fifteen  minutes,  and  set  aside  to  cool  a  little,  when  skim  off  all  the  fat; 
add  a  pint  of  sherry,  half  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  and  half  a  lemon, 
peeled  and  sliced;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  keep  it  hot. 

4.  Prepare  some  force  meat  balls  in  the  following  quantity  for 
the  above  amount  of  soup  :  Half  a  pound  of  calf's  liver  chopped  fine, 
two  ounces  beef  suet  or  marrow,  six  ounces  stale  bread,  grated  and 
soaked  slightly  in  sweet  milk,  and  season  with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  nut- 
meg, sage,  and  ground  cloves,  well  mixed;  sift  all,  and  add  one  egg 
and  the  yelk  of  another,  together  with  sufficient  flour  to  form  a  very 
thick  paste,  which  put  in  a  small  tube  formed  of  white  paper,  and  drop 
out  into  hot  water,  bits  about  as  large  as  a  small  marble;  let  them  stand 
for  ten  minutes,  and  strain  off.  Lastly,  put  into  the  hot  soup  the  diced 
breasts  of  game  and  the  balls,  and  serve  all  hot. — Constantine  Wolf} 
Chef,  Grand  Pacific  Hotel,  Chicago. 


95 

403.  Mock  Turtle  Soup — Scald  a  well-cleaned  calf's  head, 
remove  the  brain,  tie  it  up  in  a  cloth,  and  boil  an  hour,  or  until  the 
meat  will  easily  slip  from  the  bone;  take  out,  save  the  broth,  cut  it  in 
small,  square  pieces,  and  throw  them  into  cold  wTater;  when  cool,  put  it 
in  a  stew-pan,  and  cover  with  some  of  the  broth;  if  not  rich,  add  some 
stock  jelly;  let  it  boil  until  quite  tender,  and  set  aside. 

In  another  stew-pan  melt  some  butter,  and  in  it  put  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  lean  ham,  cut  small,  with  fine  herbs  to  taste;  also  parsley, 
onion  shallots,  and  mushrooms  (if  in  season,  or  canned  ones  may  be 
used) ;  add  about  a  pint  of  the  broth,  let  it  simmer  for  two  hours,  and 
then  dredge  in  a  small  quantity  of  flour;  now  add  the  remainder  of  the 
broth  and  a  quarter  bottle  of  Madeira  or  sherry,  let  all  stew  quietly  for 
ten  minutes,  and  rub  it  through  a  medium  sieve;  add  the  calf's  head, 
season  with  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  and  perhaps  a  little  salt,  the 
juice  of  one  lemon,  and,  if  desired,  a  quarter  teaspoon  pounded  mace 
and  a  dessertspoon  sugar. 

Having  previously  prepared  force  meat  balls,  No.  413,  add  them  to 
the  soup,  and  five  minutes  after  serve  hot. 

Three  or  four  pig's  feet,  well  cleaned,  may  be  used  with  the  calf's 
head,  should  the  quantity  of  soup  required  be  considerable;  at  the  same 
time  the  other  ingredients  should  be  increased  proportionately. 

404.  Bean  Soup — Very  Cheap  and  Nutritious — Boil  in  two 
quarts  water  a  small  soup  bone  until  the  meat  can  be  easily  removed 
from  the  bone,  which  take  out.  Having  soaked  a  cup  of  small  white 
beans  for  two  hours  previously,  put  in  and  boil  an  hour  and  a-half,  then 
add  three  potatoes,  half  a  turnip,  and  a  parsnip  or  carrot  sliced  fine  or 
diced;  boil  half  an  hour  more;  just  before  serving,  put  in  a  handful  of 
dry  bread  crumbs,  and  serve;  if  the  flavor  of  onion  or  garlic  is  liked, 
add  either,  cut  fine;  of  garlic  the  slightest  quantity  should  only  be  used. 
A«  good  soup  may  be  had,  for  Saturday  dinner,  when  preparing  for 
Yankee  Pork  and  Beans,  No.  160,  or  Boston  Baked  Beans,  No.  326, 

.parboiling  more  beans  than  required  to  bake,  and  having  taken  out  the 
necessary  quantity,  leave  the  remainder  for  the  soup,  and  proceed  as 
above. 

405.  Tomato  Soup — One  quart  canned  tomatoes,  two  heaping 
tablespoons  flour,  one  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  of  sugar,  one 
pint  hot  water;  let  the  tomatoes  and  water  come  to  a  boil;  rub  the  flour, 
butter  and  a  tablespoon  tomatoes  together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  mix- 
ture; add  seasoning;  boil  all  together  fifteen  minutes,  rub  through  a  sieve 
and  serve  with  toasted  bread;  this  bread  should  first  be  cut  in  thin 
slices,  buttered  and  cut  into  little  dice,  placed  in  a  pan  buttered  side  up 
and  browned  in  a  quick  oven. 

406.-  Tomato  Soup — Peel  and  cut  fine  six  good  sized  tomatoes 
and  boil  in  one  quart  of  water;  after  boiling  a  few  minutes  put  in  half 
a  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  pint  of  milk;  add  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
— Palmer  House,  Chicago. 

407.  Economical  Soup,  with  Vegetables — Any  piece  of  the 
coarse  beef  will  do,  or  a  soup  bone  is  best;  after  washing  well  and  cut- 
ting off  most  of  the  fat,  put  it  in  a  kettle,  with  cold  water  enough  for  the 


96 

soup;  let  it  boil  slowly  from  three  to  six  hours,  according  to  the  quan- 
tity and  quality.  An  hour  before  required,  cut  a  solid  head  of  cabbage 
in  quarters,  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  and  put  in  the  kettle,  and  a  quarter  of 
an  hour  after  add  a  few  turnips,  whole  potatoes  if  small,  or  cut  in  two 
if  large;  the  two  last  should  have  been  previously  peeled  and  put  in 
cold  water  for  half  an  hour  before;  when  all  are  done,  remove  the  veg- 
etables and  meat  to  a  steamer,  to  keep  hot;  should  the  quantity  of  soup 
be  insufficient,  add  boiling  water,  and  thicken  with  flour  and  water, 
after  which  boil  well;  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve 
soup  and  vegetables  separate;  the  meat  will  not  be  worth  serving. 

408.  Potato  Soup— With  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork  and  a  little 
celery  boil  six  peeled  potatoes;  strain  or  rub  through  a  colander  and  add 
to  it  milk,  butter  and  salt  till  of  the  consistency  of  cream;  add  some 
finely  chopped  parsley  and  boil  all  five  minutes;  cut  some  stale  bread 
into  dice,  fry  brown  in  hot  lard  and  throw  into  the  soup  just  before 
serving. — Palmer  House,  Chicago. 

409.  Hulled  Corn  Broth — Boil  half  a  pint  of  white  beans; 
when  done  pour  off  the  water  and  add  fresh;  then  put  in  lean  salt  pork 
or  corned  beef;  when  nearly  done  take  hulled  corn  previously  boiled 
separately  and  put  into  the  broth;  be  sure  to  have  plenty  of  water. 

410.  Gumbo  Soup — Fry  out  the  fat  of  a  slice  of  bacon  or  fat 
ham,  drain  it  off,  and  in  it  fry  the  slices  of  a  large  onion  brown;  scald, 
peel,  and  cut  up  two^quarts  fresh  tomatoes,  when  in  season  (use  canned 
tomatoes  otherwise),  and  cut  thin  one  quart  okra;  put  them,  together 
with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  in  a  stew-kettle,  with  about  three  quarts 
water,  and  cook  slowly  two  or  three  hours;  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
before  serving. 

411.  Chicken  Soup — Save  the  broth  after  boiling  chickens, 
and  to  it  add  a  dozen  fresh  tomatoes,  or  a  quart  of  canned,  and  an 
onion  thinly  sliced ;  boil  twenty  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
add  two  beaten  eggs,  and  serve. 

The  same  quantity  of  okra  pods  used  for  thickening  instead  of 
tomatoes,  forms  a  chicken  gumbo  soup. 

412.  Chicken  Soup,  with  Rice — Put  in  a  sauce-pan  two  old 
chickens,  a  small  beef  shank  or  other  soup  meat,  one  bunch  soup 
greens,  salt  and  a  few  whole  peppers;  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  it 
come  to  a  slow  boil;  skim  well  when  the  chicken  is  done,  strain  the 
broth  on  one-half  cup  rice,  let  it  cook  slowly  till  done,  then  add  the 
meat  of  one  chicken  cut  fine  and  a  little  nutmeg,  and  serve. — Palmer 
House,  Chicago. 

413.  Force  Meat  Balls  for  Mock  Turtle,  Meat  or  Game 
Soups — In  a  wedge- wood  mortar  rub  the  yelks  of  five  hard-boiled  eggs, 
or  in  a  bowl  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  adding  gradually  some  calves 
brains;  mix  in  two  eggs  beaten  lightly  to  moisten,  and  season  with  a 
little  butter  and  salt.     Put  in  the  soup  five  minutes  before  serving. 


WHOLESALE 


AND 


RETAIL. 


NEAR 


MONROE 

STREET. 


We  carry  the  most  varied  and  largest  Retail  Stock 
of  Shelf  Hardware  in  the  City. 


PARTICULAR  ATTENTION  GIVEN  TO 


BUILDERS'  HARDWARE 

Embracing*  all  the  Leading*  Makes  of  Fine  Bronze  Trimmings. 


A  Specialty  made  of  Butchers5  Tools  W ;  Machinery. 

ORR  &  LOCKETT. 


SON", 

No.   70  North   Clark    Street, 


DEALER  IN 


Ranges,  Stoves  9  Heaters 

Also  full  lines  of  Housekeeping  Goods  in  Iron,  Tin,  Copper  Ware,  Cutlery  and  Shelf  Hardware. 

Oil  Stoves  of  best  make,  and  a  new  Gasoline  Stove,  perfectly  non-explosive. 

The  "Perfection"  Refrigerator  and  Ice  Chest  (all  sizes). 

COPPER,  TINWARE  AND  STOVE  REPAIRING. 

JOHN   ANDERSON'S 

DEPOT   FOR 

Butter,  Cheese^  Eggs 

OF  RELIABLE  QUALITY  AND  AT  LOWEST  PRICES. 

Also  the  best  article  of  Butterine  made— sold  as  such, 
superior  to  Cheap  Butter. 

A  CLEANLY  AND  LOW-PKIOED  EESTAUEANT  ADJOINING. 
Nos.  11  &  13  South  Clark  Street,  near  South  Water/ 


JOHN  H.  GRANT, 

248  Wabash  Ave.,  Chicago,  111., 

MANUFACTURER  AND  DKALER  IN 

Sewing  Machine  Needles 

Parts  and  Attachments. 


New  first-class  Sewing  Machines  at  $20  and  upwards,  and  war- 
ranted for  five  years. 

Good  Second-Hand  Machines  at  $5  and  upwards. 

Repairing  all  makes  of  Sewing  Machines  a  specialty,  and  satis- 
faction guaranteed. 


i  the  noi  nuiio  BED 


Gives  a  perfect  Woven  Wire  Mattress  Bed,  and 
encloses  all  of  the  bedding. 

There  are  no  legs  to  turn  down. 

Bedding*  folds  outward,  giving*  perfect  ventilation. 

See  it  before  buying  any  other. 

For  sale  by  Furniture  Dealers. 

$25.00  AND  UPWARD. 


Variety  of  Styles. 


ALSO  MANUFACTURERS  OF 

Woven  Wire  Mattresses 

AND 

IRON  AND  BRASS  BEDSTEADS 

OF  AIjIj  KINDS 

Suitable  for  homes  and  public  institutions. 

Union  Wire  Mattress  Co. 

73  to  83  Erie  St.,  Ghicago. 

I^ull  Catalogue  sent  on  application. 


SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS. 

Salads — Note —  Salads  vary  so  much  in  their  ingredients  and 
manner  of  mixing  that  they  form  not  only  a  very  agreeable  relish,  but 
frequently  an  entire  meal.  Great  care  should  be  taken  that  all  vegeta- 
bles entering  into  their  composition  should  be  very  fresh,  all  meats,  fowl 
or  fish  well  cooked  (except  when  they  are  directed  raw),  and  that  the 
vinegar  be  of  the  best  quality,  pure  cider  vinegar  being  the  best  attain- 
able here,  although  the  white  wine  or  tarragon  vinegars,  when  to  be 
relied  upon,  are  regarded  as  superior ;  beware  of  acid  vinegars  so 
frequently  palmed  off  as  white  wine  vinegar.  Prepare  vegetables  by 
freshening  in  cold  water,  and  thoroughly  cleansing.  The  oil  used  should 
be  of  the  best  and  sweetest  French  or  Italian  olive  oil,  added  a  few  drops 
at  a  time.  For  chicken  salad  thex)il  skimmed  from  the  water  in  which 
the  chicken  is  boiled  may  be  used  instead  of  salad  oil,  and  as  old  fowls 
are  really  better  than  young  for  salads,  this  will  be  considerable.  When 
the  yelks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  are  used  they  should  be  mashed  or  pounded 
in  a  mortar  or  rubbed  fine  in  a  bowl  with  the  back  of  a  spoon;  cream  or 
clarified  melted  butter  are  a  good  substitute  for  oil,  and  by  many  pre- 
ferred; it  should  be  added  last.  To  prepare  lettuce,  kale  or  cress,  do  not 
cut,  but  break  off  the  heads  or  roots  ;  separate  and  wash  each  leaf  sepa- 
rately, one  by  one,  in  water  slightly  warm  or  tepid,  and  immediately  throw 
each  one  into  cold  water;  the  warmed  water  more  effectually  cleanses, 
while  the  cold  water  preserves  the  crispness.  The  meat  from  fowls  or  the 
bones  of  meat  should  also  be  picked  off  instead  of  cut.  Vegetable  salads 
should  be  stirred  very  little,  that  their  freshness  may  be  preserved. 

414.  Celery — To  crisp  celery  let  it  lie  in  ice  water  two  hours 
before  serving;  to  fringe  the  stalks  stick  several  coarse  needles  into  a 
cork  and  draw  the  stalk  half  way  from  the  top  through  the  needles 
several  times,  and  lay  in  the  refrigerator  to  curl  and  crisp. 

415.  Chiccory  or  Endive — Extensively  cultivated  for  the  adul- 
teration of  coffee;  is  also  a  fine  relish,  and  has  broad  leaves;  endive  is 
of  the  same  nature  as  chiccory,  the  leaves  being  curly. 

416.  Cress  or  Water  Cress — Is  said  to  contain  much  sul- 
phur and  to  be  anti-scorbutic;  it  is  of  a  peppery  flavor,  and  when 
gathered  early  in  the  morning  is  a  good  breakfast  appetizer;  served 
simply  with  salt;  it  is  also  compounded  into  a  salad. 

417.  Horse-Radish — Is  an  agreeable  relish,  and  has  a  par- 
ticularly fresh  taste  in  the  spring;  is  scraped  fine  or  grated,  and  set  on 
the  table  in  a  small  covered  cup;  much  that  is  bottled  and  sold  as 
horse-radish  is  adulterated  with  grated  turnip. 

418.  Lettuce — Wash  each  leaf  separately,  breaking  them  from 
the  head;  crisp  in  ice  water  and  serve  the  leaves  whole,  to  be  prepared 
at  table,  providing  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  halves  or  slices,  oil  and  other 
ingredients,  to  be  mixed  at  table  to  individual  taste. 


IOO 

419.  Radishes — There  are  several  varieties,  all  of  which  are 
served  at  table  placed  in  a  glass  of  water,  having  been  previously 
cleaned  by  scraping. 

420.  Parsley — Is  much  used  for  flavoring  in  cookery;  it  is  also 
added  to  some  salads;  that  used  for  garnishing  is  known  as  the  curly- 
head  kind;  it  is  best  green  and  fresh,  but  may  be  dried  for  winter  use; 
hang  it  in  a  dry  place,  the  roots  upwards. 

421.  Sorrel — Is  found  in  a  wild  state  in  most  localities;  it 
possesses  a  certain  amount  of  pure  oxalic  acid,  which  renders  it  a  de- 
sirable concomitant  for  salad,  and  is  regarded  as  very  healthful. 

422.  Pepper  Grass — Is  of  nearly  the  same  nature  as  cress, 
and  used  in  same  manner. 

423.  Bean  Salad — String  young  beans;  break  into  half-inch 
pieces  (or  leave  whole),  wash  and  cook  soft  in  salt  water;  drain  well; 
add  finely-chopped  onions,  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar;  when  cool,  add 
olive  oil  or  melted  butter. 

424.  Cabbage  Salad — Two  quarts  finely-chopped  cabbage,, 
two  level  tablespoons  salt,  two  of  white  sugar,  one  of  black  pepper,  and 
a  heaping  one  of  ground  mustard;  rub  yelks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs 
until  smooth;  add  half  cup  butter,  slightly  warmed ;  mix  thoroughly 
with  the  cabbage,  and  add  tea  cup  good  vinegar;  serve  with  whites  of 
the  eggs  sliced  and  placed  on  the  salad. 

425.  Plain  Cold  Slaw — Slice  cabbage  very  fine;  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sugar;  pour  over  vinegar  and  mix  thoroughly. 
It  is  nice  served  in  the  center  of  a  platter  with  fried  oysters  around  it. 

426.  Chicken  Salad — Chop  fine  one  chicken  cooked  tender, 
one  head  cabbage,  and  five  cold  hard-boiled  eggs;  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard  to  taste;  warm  one  pint  vinegar;  add  half  a  tea- 
cup butter;  stir  until  melted;  pour  hot  over  the  mixture;  stir  thoroughly, 
and  set  away  to  cool. 

427.  Chicken  Salad — Two  chickens;  two  bunches  of  celery 
to  each  chicken;  half  pint  vinegar,  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  salad  oil, 
one  of  liquid  mustard,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  salt,  0-ne  salt-spoon  red 
pepper;  beat  the  eggs  and  vinegar  together  until  quite  thick;  then 
beat  oil,  mustard,  and  red  pepper  together,  and  stir  into  it;  add  celery 
just  before  using.     The  above  is  sufficient  for  ten  persons. 

428.  Chicken  Salad — Boil  one  chicken  tender,  and  chop  fine; 
chop  fine  the  whites  of  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs;  add  equal  quantities 
of  chopped  celery  and  cabbage;  mash  the  yelks  fine;  add  two  table- 
spoons butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard;  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste;  and  lastly,  one-half  cup  good  cider  vinegar;  pour  over  the  salad 
and  mix  thoroughly. 

429.  Cucumber  Salad — Peel  and  slice  cucumbers;  mix  with 
salt,  and  let  stand  half  an  hour;  mix  two  tablespoons  sweet  oil  or  ham 
gravy  with  as  much  vinegar  and  a  teaspoon  sugar;  add  the  cucumbers, 
which  should  be  drained  a  little;  add  a  teaspoon  pepper,  and  stir  well. 


IOI 

430.    Lettuce   Salad — Take  the  yelks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs,  add  salt  and  mustard  to  taste;  mash  fine;  make  a  paste  by  adding, 
a  dessertspoon  of  olive  oil  or  melted  butter;  mix  thoroughly,  and  then 
dilute  by  adding  gradually  a  tea  cup  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the 
lettuce;  garnish  by  slicing  another  egg  and  laying  on  top  of  the  lettuce. 

431*  Lobster  Salad — Put  a  large  lobster  over  the  fire  in 
boiling  water  slightly  salted;  boil  rapidly  for  about  twenty  minutes; 
when  cold,  crack  the  claws,  after  first  disjointing,  twist  off  the  head 
(which  is  used  in  garnishing),  split  the  body  in  two  lengthwise,  pick  out 
the  meat  in  bits  not  too  fine,  saving  the  coral  separate;  break  up  a  large 
head  of  lettuce  and  place  on  a  dish,  over  which  lay  the  lobster,  putting 
the  coral  around  the  outside;  for  dressing,  take  the  yelks  of  three  eggs, 
beat  well,  add  four  tablespoons  salad  oil,  dropping  it  in  very  slowly, 
beating  all  the  time;  then  add  a  little  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  half  tea- 
spoon mixed  mustard  and  two  tablespoons  vinegar;  pour  this  over  the 
lobster  just  before  sending  to  table. 

432.  Potato  Salad,  Hot — Pare  six  or  eight  large  potatoes 
and  boil  till  done,  and  slice  thin  while  hot;  peel  and  cut  up  a  white 
onion  into  small  bits  and  mix.  with  the  potatoes;  cut  up  some  breakfast 
bacon  into  small  bits,  sufficient  to  fill  a  tea  cup,  and  fry  it  a  light  brown; 
remove  the  meat,  and  into  the  grease  stir  three  tablespoons  vinegar, 
making  a  sour  gravy,  which  with  the  bacon  pour  over  the  potato  and 
onion;  mix  lightly.     To  be  eaten  when  hot. 

433.  Potato  Salad,  Cold — Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine 
with  enough  raw  onions  to  season  nicely;  make  a  dressing  as  for  lettuce 
salad,  and  pour  over  it. 

434.  Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw — Two  tablespoons 
whipped  sweet  cream,  two  of  sugar,  and  four  of  vinegar;  beat  well  and 
pour  over  cabbage. 

435.  Cabbage  Salad  Dressing — Boil  one  cup  vinegar;  melt 
a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  in  it;  beat  together  one  egg  and 
add  one  teaspoon  each  of  mustard,  sugar,  salt,  flour  and  half  teaspoon 
pepper;  pour  the  boiling  vinegar  on  this  mixture;  stir  it  well;  then  put 
it  back  on  the  stove  to  boil  again  about  a  minute,  and  pour  it  over  the 
cabbage. 

436.  Mayonaise  Dressing — Beat  a  raw  egg  (some  use  the 
yelks  only)  with  a  salt-spoon  of  salt  (using  a  wooden  spoon)  until  it  is 
thoroughly  smooth;  add  a  teaspoon  mixed  mustard,  made  rather  thicker 
than  usual;  when  quite  smooth,  add  by  degrees  (a  few  drops  only  at  a 
time)  a  half  pint  of  salad  oil,  taking  care  to  blend  each  portion  of  it 
with  the  egg  before  adding  more.  This  ought  to  be  as  smooth  as 
honey,  and  thick  enough  so  that  a  spoon  will  stand  up  in  it;  dilute  with 
vinegar  until  it  assumes  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  A  little  es- 
sence of  anchovy  may  be  added  if  desired.  This  is  the  smoothest  and 
richest  of  salad  dressings.  The  oily  flavor  is  entirely  lost  in  combina- 
tion with  the  raw  egg.  This  sauce  keeps  well,  if  bottled  and  corked 
with  a  glass  stopper,  and  it  may  be  made  at  any  time  in  advance.  In 
summer,  place  oil  and  eggs  in  a  cold  place  half  an  hour  before  making. 


Moody  &  Waters, 


MANUFACTURERS  OF 


HOME-MADE  PIES 

Bakery:  216  &  218  W.  Lake  Street, 
Office  and  Salesroom :  39  &  41  N.  Green  Street, 

■•H3HIGAGO.-*- 


CAPACITY,  1,000  PIES  PER  HOUR. 


When  buying  Pies  call  for  the  "  HOME-MADE." 

Our  Pies  are  stamped  "  Home-Made  "  on  the  upper  crust,  and  are  always 
clean,  well  baked  and  manufactured  of  the  best  material  that  can  be  procured. 

They  are  delivered  fresh  daily  in  all  parts  of  the  city,  and  are  for  sale  by  all 
Groceries,  Bakeries,  Restaurants  and  Confectioners. 

N.  B. — We  use  no  cotton  seed  oil,  glucose,  corn  starch  or  any  article  con- 
sidered injurious  to  health. 

EVERY  AMERICAN  CITIZEN 

SHOULD   HAVE   A  COPY  OF 

Babcock's  Political  Hand-Book 

CONTAINING 

Portraits  and  Biographies  of  22  Leading  Statesmen. 

A  History  of  all  National  Political  Conventions 

ever  held  in  the  United  States. 

CABINETS  OF  ALL  PRESIDENTS, 

Justices  of  Supreme  Court. 

Losses  of  the  Government  by  Embezzlement. 

Popular  and  Electoral  Votes,  etc.,  etc. 

128  pp.    Price,  Paper  Covers,  25c;  in  Cloth,  50c.    For  sale  by  the  Trade. 


PUBLISHERS, 

1JST7  X-ia,  Sstlle  Street,  Oli-icstgr©. 


PUDDINGS  AND  PASTRY. 


Note — Upon  the  production  of  puddings  and  pastry,  covering  fruit 
pies,  tarts  and  tartlets,  the  following  general  remarks  are  given.  Most 
of  those  on  cake  making  (page  95),  will  also  apply  here. 

PUDDINGS. 

Note — The  freshness  of  all  the  ingredients  for  puddings  is  very 
essential,  as  one  bad  or  poor  article  will  taint  the  whole.  When  eggs 
are  of  doubtful  freshness,  break  each  one  separately  in  a  cup  before 
mixing  them  ;  a  bad  one  will  not  then  destroy  those  that  preceded  it. 
By  beating  the  yelks  and  whites  separately,  the  articles  to  which  they 
are  added  will  be  the  lighter. 

Raisins  and  dried  fruits  for  puddings  should  be  carefully  picked 
over,  in  most  cases  stoned,  and  large  ones  chopped.  Currants  should 
be  well  washed,  pressed  in  a  cloth,  and  then  thoroughly  dried  before 
the  fire,  and  after  which  be  well  picked  over.  English  currants  are 
usually  quite  gritty  ;  they  may  be  made  to  "  plump  "  or  fill  out  by 
pouring  over  them  boiling  water,  and  then  dried. 

Batter  pudding  should  be  smoothly  mixed,  entirely  free  from 
lumps;  to  cause  which,  first  mix  the  flour  with  a  very  small  part  of  the 
milk,  and  add  the  remainder  gradually;  should  it  then  prove  lumpy,  it 
may  be  rubbed  through  a  hair  sieve. 

Boiled  puddings  should  be  put  on  in  boiling  water,  which  must 
not  be  allowed  to  stop  at  least  simmering;  it  should  always  be  covered 
with  the  water,  more  being  added  if  necessary.  In  dishing  it,  as  soon 
as  it  comes  out  of  the  kettle  dip  it  in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  and  the  cloth 
will  not  stick  to  it.  It  is  better  to  have  them  suspended  in  the  kettle; 
the  cloth  will  not  then  adhere  to  the  bottom.  The  pudding  cloth  or 
bag  should  be  kept  scrupulously  clean,  but  washed  without  soap,  or 
they  will  impart  a  very  disagreeable  flavor  to  the  puddings.  Before 
using,  dip  in  hot  water  and  dredge  it  slightly  with  flour. 

All  puddings  should  be  expeditiously  served,  as  by  standing  they 
quickly  become  heavy,  particularly  batter  puddings.  When  baked  pud- 
dings are  sufficiently  solid  to  do  so,  turn  them  out  of  the  baking-dish 
to  a  platter,  bottom  up,  and  powder  with  fine  sugar. 

437.  Apple  Pudding — One  quart  milk,  three  eggs,  three  tea- 
spoons baking-powder,  two  spoonsful  melted  butter,  flour  to  make  a 
batter  like  griddle  cakes;  fill  a  pan  half  full  of  sliced  apples,  and  pour 
the  batter  over  them;  bake  two  hours,  and  eat  with  a  sweet  sauce. 

438.  Apple  Roley  Poley — Peel,  core  and  slice  sour  apples; 
make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  or  raised  biscuit  dough  may  be  used  if 
rolled  thinner;  roll  half  an  inch  thick,  lay  the  slices  on  the  paste,  roll 
up,  tuck  in  the  ends,  prick  deeply  with  a  fork,  lay  it  in  a  steamer,  and 
steam  hard  for  an  hour  and  three-quarters.     Or,  wrap  it  in  a  pudding- 


104 

cloth,  tie  the  ends,  baste  up  the  sides,  and  boil  continually  an  hour  and 
a-half,  perhaps  more.  Stoned  cherries,  dried  fruits,  or  any  kind  of  ber- 
ries, fresh  or  dried,  may  be  used. 

439*  Cabinet  Pudding — Spread  the  inside  of  a  plain  mould 
with  butter,  and  ornament  the  sides  with  dried  cherries  and  candied 
citron;  fill  the  mould  with  alternate  layers  of  slices  of  sponge-cakes 
and  ratafia  of  macaroni.  Then  fill  up  the  mould  with  a  lemon 
custard  made  with  eight  yelks  of  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  six 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  glass  of  brandy  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon. 
This  custard  must  not  be  set,  but  merely  mixed  up.  Steam  the 
pudding  in  the  usual  way  for  about  an  hour  and  a-half,  and  when  done 
dish  it  up,  either  with  arrowroot  sauce  or  a  custard. — Sebastien  Michel, 
Chef  de  Cuisine,  Hotel  Brunswick. 

440.  Corn  Starch  Blanc  Mange — Take  one  quart  sweet 
milk,  and  put  one  pint  upon  the  stove  to  heat;  in  the  other  pint  mix 
four  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch;  when  the  milk  is  hot,  pour  in 
the  cold  milk  with  the  corn  starch  thoroughly  mixed  in  it,  and  stir  all 
together  until  there  are  no  lumps  and  it  is  thick;  flavor  with  lemon; 
take  from  the  stove,  and  add  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth. 

A  Custard  for  the  Above. — One  pint  milk  boiled  with  a  little  salt  in 
it;  beat  the  yelks  of  three  eggs  with  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  add  to 
the  boiling  milk;  stir  well,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  till  the  eggs  are  put  in. 

441.  English  Plum  Pudding — Beat  six  yelks  and  four  whites 
of  eggs  very  light,  add  to  them  a  "tumbler  of  sweet  milk,  stir  in  grad- 
ually a  quarter  pound  grated  stale  bread,  a  pound  of  flour,  three- 
quarters  of  sugar,  and  a  pound  each  of  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  currants 
nicely  washed  and  dried,  and  stoned  raisins  well  floured;  stir  well  and 
add  two  nutmegs,  a  tablespoon  mace,  one  of  cinnamon  or  cloves,  a  wine 
glass  brandy,  a  teaspoonful  salt,  and,  finally,  another  tumbler  milk;  boil 
in  bowls  or  moulds  five  hours,  and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  with  drawn 
butter,  wine,  sugar  and  nutmeg.  It  will  keep  several  months;  when 
wanted,  boil  an  hour  before  serving;  a  pound  of  citron  or  blanched  sweet 
almonds  will  add  to  the  richness  of  the  pudding. 

442.  Rice  Pudding  without  Eggs — Two  quarts  milk,  two- 
thirds  of  a  cup  of  rice,  same  of  sugar,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  and 
a  little  salt;  stir  it  occasionally  until  boiling  hot,  and  cook  in  a  slow 
oven  until  of  the  consistency  of  cream. 

443.  A  Cheap  but  Delicious  Rice  Pudding— One  cup  rice, 
well  washed,  two  quarts  new  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  with  sugar  and 
flavoring  to  taste;  grate  nutmeg  over  it,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  four 
or  five  hours.  This  will  prove  a  most  delicious  pudding,  to  be  eaten 
either  hot  or  cold,  and  if  baked  slowly  is  better  than  with  the  use  of 
eggs. 

444.  Rice  Meringue  Pudding — Put  a  teacup  of  rice  in  a 
pint  of  water.  When  the  water  is  boiled  away,  add  a  pint  of  milk,  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  tgg;  tjje  yelks  of  three  eggs,  and  the  grated 


i°5 

rind  of  one  lemon;  mix  well;  pour  into  a  pudding  dish;  spread  over 
the  top  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  teacup  of 
sugar;  set  in  the  oven  and  brown  a  little. 

445.  Plain  Fruit  Pudding — Take  one  and  a-half  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  half  a  cup  of  currants, 
two  nutmegs,  one  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
four  eggs,  a  wine  glass  of  brandy,  a  wine  glass  of  syrup,  and  a  little  milk 
if  necessary.  Mix  very  thoroughly;  tie  it  in  a  cloth  as  tight  as  possible, 
and  boil  fast  for  five  or  six  hours.     Serve  with  wine  sauce. 

446.  Snow  Pudding — One-half  a  package  of  Cox's  gelatine; 
pour  over  it  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  add  one  and  a-half  cups  sugar; 
when  soft,  add  one  cup  boiling  water  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  then 
the  whites  of  four  well-beaten  eggs;  beat  all  together  until  it  is  light 
and  frothy,  or  until  the  gelatine  will  not  settle  clear  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  after  standing  a  few  minutes;  put  it  on  a  glass  dish,  and  serve 
with  a  custard  made  of  one  pint  milk,  the  yelks  of  the  four  eggs,  and 
the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon;  boil. 

447.  Suet  Pudding — Four  cups  flour,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  half-pound  raisins,  three-quarters  of  a  cup 
milk,  half  teaspoon  soda,  and  a  little  salt  and  cinnamon;  boil  two 
hours  and  a-half.     To  be  eaten  with  sauce. 

448.  Sweet  Pudding — Four  cups  flour,  one  of  molasses,  one 
of  suet  finely  chopped,  half-pound  raisins,  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
milk,  half  a  teaspoon  soda,  and  a  little  cinnamon;  boil  two  hours  and  a 
half;  serve  with  sauce. 

*449.    Yorkshire  Pudding,  with  Roast  Beef— See  No.  97. 


PASTRY. 


The  flour  should  be  the  best  wheaten  flour  and  perfectly  dry,  at 
least  three  months  old;  some  brands  of  flour  are  especially  in  favor  for 
pastry,  among  them  the  kind  known  as  the  "  New  Process/'  If  in  the 
least  damp  it  will  be  heavy. 

The  butter,  unless  fresh  is  used,  should  be  washed  from  the  salt 
and  well  squeezed  or  wrung  in  a  cloth  to  get  out  all  the  water  or  butter- 
milk; if  left  in,  it  will  produce  heavy  paste. 

Lard  should  be  perfectly  sweet  and  white.  It  may  be  tested  by 
running  a  knife  or  steel  into;  if,  on  withdrawing,  it  smells  sweet,  it  is 
good. 

Suet  should  be  finely  chopped,  perfectly  sweet  and  free  from  skin- 
like tissue;  when  chopped,  dredge  with  flour,  which  prevents  the  par- 
ticles adhering  to  each  other.  Beef  suet  is  the  best,  but  that  of  veal, 
or  the  outside  fat  of  a  loin  or  neck  of  mutton,  makes  good  shortening, 
or  the  skimmings  from  boiled  mutton,  but  only  that  without  vegetables. 
Clarified  beef  drippings  also  make  good  crusts  for  ordinary  puddings, 
pies  or  cakes;  it  should,  however,  be  used  sparingly. 


io6 

The  art  of  making  paste  requires  much  practice  and  dexterity;  it 
should  be  touched  as  lightly  as  possible,  made  with  cool  hands  and  in  a 
cool  place,  and  for  same  reason  a  marble  slab  is  better  than  a  board  to 
knead  or  roll  upon,  using  a  well-floured  rolling-pin  of  hard  wood.  In 
mixing,  add  the  water  (ice  water  is  best  in  summer) ;  very  gradually 
work  the  whole  together  with  the  blade  of  a  knife.  The  butter  or 
other  shortening  should  be  cold  and  rather  hard;  to  make  it  so  put  in 
cold  water  until  about  ready  for  it,  when  squeeze  as  before  directed, 
break  it  in  small  bits,  roll  out  the  paste  and  cover  with  the  bits  of  but- 
ter; fold  over  each  end  and  roll  out  very  thin  again,  repeating  until  all 
is  used.  To  produce  light  pastes  considerable  expedition  should  be 
used  both  in  making  and  baking;  if  it  stands  long  before  putting  in  the 
oven  it  will  become  flat  and  heavy. 

In  baking  custard,  pumpkin  or  squash  pies,  that  the  mixture  may 
not  be  absorbed  by  the  paste,  it  is  better  to  partly  bake  the  crust  before 
adding  it. 

The  pie  tins,  patty  pans  or  dishes  for  baked  puddings  should  be 
well  greased,  ready  for  use,  sweet  lard  being  as  good  or  preferable  to 
butter;  crusts  to  be  baked  in  sheets  should  be  placed  on  buttered  paper. 

Oven — Very  important  is  the  state  of  the  oven;  if  a  paste  be  skill- 
fully compounded  with  the  best  materials,  and  not  properly  baked,  all  is 
lost.  Some  require  a  quick  oven,  as  puff-paste;  others  a  warm  and 
moderate  one,  and  some  a  slow  one.  By  placing  a  hand  in  the  oven 
its  heat  may  be  determined  very  nearly.  In  baking  a  puff-paste  try  a 
small  piece  of  the  paste  first. 

450.  Puff  Paste — One  full  pound  sifted  superfine  flour,  one  of 
washed  butter,  pressed  free  from  moisture  in  a  clean  cloth;  place^the 
flour  on  the  mixing  board  or  marble  slab;  make  a  well  in  the  center,  into 
which  squeeze  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  put  in  the  yelk  of  an  eggf 
beaten  with  a  little  ice- water;  stir  with  one  hand  and  drop  in  ice- water 
with  the  other  until  the  paste  is  hard  as  the  butter;  roll  out  the  paste 
in  a  smooth  square  an  inch  thick;  smooth  the  sides  with  a  rolling-pin 
and  spread  the  butter  over  half  the  paste;  lay  the  other  half  over  it,  and 
leave  it  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  cold  place;  then  roll  out  in  a  long  strip, 
keeping  the  edges  smooth,  and  double  it  in  three  parts,  thus:  lap  one- 
third  over  the  middle,  roll  it  down,  then  fold  over  the  opposite  third, 
and  roll  all  out  in  a  long  strip  again;  repeat  the  folding,  rolling  across 
this  time;  let  it  lie  fifteen  minutes,  and  repeat  six  times,  allowing  fifteen 
minutes  between  each  rolling  to  cool,  or  the  butter  will  oil;  the  paste 
is  now  ready  for  use.  The  result  will  repay  the  trouble  by  being  both 
light  and  flaky.  The  quantity  of  water  depends  on  the  capacity  of  the 
flour  to  absorb  it.  Handle  as  little  as  possible  throughout  the  whole 
process.     Rich  pastes  such  as  the  above  require  a  quick  oven. 

451.  Patties  or  Shells  for  Tarts— Roll  out  a  nice  puff 
paste  thin;  cut  out  with  a  glass  or  cookie  cutter,  and  with  a  wine  glass 
or  smaller  cutter  cut  out  the  center  of  two  out  of  three;  lay  the  rings 
thus  made  on  the  third,  and  bake  at  once.  May  be  used  for  veal  or 
oyster  patties,  or  filled  with  any  jelly,  jam  or  preserves  as  tarts. 


452.  Apple  Custard  Pie — Stew  sour  apples  until  soft  and  not 
much  water  is  left  in  them,  and  rub  through  a  colander;  beat  three  eggs 
for  each  pie,  and  use  one  cup  butter  and  one  of  flour  for  three  pies; 
nutmeg  seasoning. 

453.  Apple  Tarts — Pare,  quarter,  core  and  boil  in  half  a  cup 
water  until  quite  soft  ten  large,  tart  apples;  beat  until  very  smooth  and 
add  the  yelks  of  six  eggs  or  three  whole  ones,  the  juice  and  grated  out- 
side rind  of  two  lemons,  half  a  cup  butter,  one  and  a-half  of  sugar  (or 
more  if  not  sufficiently  sweet);  beat  all  thoroughly,  line  patty  pans 
with  a  puff  paste  and  fill;  bake  five  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Meringue — If  desired  very  nice,  cover  them  when  removed  from 
the  oven  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  three  eggs  remain- 
ing, mixed  with  three  tablespoons  sugar;  return  to  the  oven  and  deli- 
cately brown. 

454.  Cream  Pie — Thoroughly  beat  together  half  a  cup  sugar, 
the  white  of  one  egg  and  a  tablespoon  flour;  then  add  a  cup  of  rich 
milk,  or  use  part  cream;  bake  with  only  an  undercrust,  and  grate  nut- 
meg over  it. 

455.  Date  Pie — One  pound  of  dates  makes  three  pies;  soak 
them  over  night,  then  stew  them  until  soft  enough  to  strain;  add  one 
quart  milk,  three  eggs,  a  little  nutmeg  and  salt;  bake  without  an  upper 
crust. 

456.  Lemon  Pie — Grate  the  yellow  rind  and  take  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  cup  sugar;  take  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  corn-starch 
and  mix  it  with  cold  water;  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  a 
little;  turn  together;  beat  the  yelk  of  one  eggy  and  add  to  the  mixture; 
beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth  with  a  little  sugar,  and  put  over 
the  top  after  the  pie  is  baked,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  slightly  brown. 

457.  Lemon  Pie — Into  one  quart  boiling  molasses  put  one-half 
cup  water,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  six  lemons,  one  large  spoonful 
c^rn  starch,  and  two  beaten  eggs.     This  will  fill  three  pies. 

458.  Mince  Meat — Use  two  bowls  chopped  apples,  one  of  chop- 
ped meat,  one-fourth  pound  chopped  suet,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of 
one  lemon,  two  tea  cups  molasses,  one  large  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon 
and  cloves,  one  nutmeg  grated  fine,  one  pound  stoned  or  seedless 
raisins,  half  pound  currants,  one-fourth  pound  citron  cut  fine,  one  quart 
cider,  and  sugar  and  salt  to  taste. 

459.  Mock  Mince  Pie — Twelve  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  cup 
hot  water,  half  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  each  of  sugar,  currants  and 
raisins;  any  spices  to  taste.     This  makes  four  pies. 

460.  Pumpkin  Pie — For  three  pies:  one  quart  milk,  three  cups 
of  boiled  and  strained  pumpkin,  one  and  a-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
molasses,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  one  teaspoon  each  of  ginger  and 
cinnamon.  Boston  marrow  or  Hubbard  squash  may  be  substituted  for 
pumpkin,  and  are  much  preferred  by  many,  as  possessing  a  less  strong 
flavor. 


BREMNER'S 

D.F.B. 


This  Bread  is  made  with  the  Best  Minnesota  Patent 
Flour  ground  from  wheat  selected  for  this  purpose,  with 
Milk  from  my  own  dairy  farm,  which  is  absolutely  pure 
and  full  cream.  The  dough  is  mixed  by  machinery,  made 
under  my  own  directions  from  my  own  designs,  and  my 
patrons  can  see  that  it  must  be  a  much  cleaner  and  uniform 
bread  than  that  which  is  mixed  up  by  hands. 

Purity  of  Material,  Superiority  of  Workmanship 
and  Cleanliness  in  Handling  are  my  mottoes- 


FINE  BISCUIT t FAMILY  CRACKERS 

Are  as  much  superior  to  other  brands  as  my  Bread. 

SIOW  FLAKE,  SOBA  &  CEEAM  WAF1ES 

In  tin  cans,  are  not  excelled. 


See  that  your  Grocer  gives  you  BREMNER'S  goods. 


CAKE  ^CONFECTIONERY. 


Of  the  numberless  cakes  produced  through  the  multiferous  com- 
binations of  flour,  sugar,  fruits,  raising  powders  or  other  ingredients, 
those  only  will  be  presented  which  lie  within  the  skill  of  the  accom- 
plished housekeeper.  Ornamentation  and  decoration  of  fine  cakes  will 
be  but  lightly  touched  upon;  it  is  a  part,  however,  which  presents  an 
opportunity  for  the  display  of  much  taste  and  skill  on  the  part  of  the 
operator. 

Preliminary  Matters  to  Observe  in  Cake  Making — Clean  hands  and 
nails  thoroughly  with  a  brush.  Clean  all  utensils  and  the  kitchen  table 
very  thoroughly,  and  have  everything  necessary  in  readiness.  If  the 
weather  is  warm  place  the  eggs  in  a  cold  place,  as  they  will  beat  stiffer 
and  lighter,  examine  each  thoroughly  to  ascertain  if  they  are  sound  and 
fresh.  Prepare  the  tins*  before  the  cake  is  made,  greasing  with  lard, 
and  line  the  bottom  with  several  thicknesses  of  paper,  the  top  one  well 
greased;  it  will  do  no  harm  to  also  line  the  sides. 

All  flour  and  sugar  used  is  to  be  sifted  and  weighed.  Very  hard 
butter  should  be  warmed  a  little,  but  not  melted.  If  quite  salt  or 
packed  butter,  freshen  in  cold  wrater,  breaking  it  into  bits.  None  but 
"good  butter"  should  ever  be  used,  and  if  beaten  to  a  cream  it  saves 
warming.  In  using  milk  observe  that  with  sour  milk  soda  alone  is 
necessary,  but  with  sweet  milk  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  or  baking 
powder  is  used;  the  first  makes  a  spongy,  light  cake,  and  the  last  one 
like  pound  cake. 

For  all  white  and  delicate  cakes  use  powdered  sugar;  for  rich  cakes, 
plum  cake,  crushed  loaf,  powdered  and  sifted;  for  dark  cakes,  the  best 
brown  sugar,  and  for  jelly  cakes,  light  fruit  cakes,  "A"  coffee  or 
granulated. 

New  flour  in  either  bread  or  cake  making,  or  for  pastry,  may  be  im- 
proved, i.  e.y  some  of  its  moisture  evaporated — by  placing  in  the  sun  or 
before  the  fire  the  quantity  to  be  used.  When  using  "  New  Process*' 
flour  recollect  it  requires  less  by  an  eighth  than  any  other  brand. 

Most  good  cake  makers  first  stir  the  milk  and  flavoring  into  the 
creamed  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  yelks,  next  the  whites  and  last 
the  flour,  after  first  mixing  with  two-thirds  of  it  the  baking  powder, 
leaving  the  remainder  to  be  used  at  discretion. 

A  cup  always  means  a  tea-cup,  and  not  a  coffee-cup. 

Raisins  should  not  be  washed;  to  remove  all  dirt,  stems,  etc.,  rub 
them  in  a  cloth  and  then  carefully  pick  them  over;  if  washed,  it  is  diffi- 
cult to  dry  them,  so  they  will  not  make  the  cake  heavy.  Raisins  or 
other  fruit  should  be  added  the  last  thing  before  the  cake  is  baked. 
Grate  only  the  outer  or  yellow  rind  of  lemons  or  oranges;  the  white  or 
inner  peel  contains  none  of  the  required  flavor,  but,  on  the  contrary,  is 
bitter  A  reliable  baking  powder  may  be  used  in  all  cases  where  soda 
and  cream  of  tartar  is  mentioned,  using  the  same  quantity  given  for  the 


no 

two  together.  The  proportions  to  use  of  baking  powder  is  generally 
three  teaspoons  to  a  quart  of  flour,  or  one  of  soda  and  two  of  cream  of 
tartar. 

Do  not  stir,  but  beat  cake  batter,  beating  upward  and  very 
thoroughly;  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon;  iron  will  turn  the  batter  dark, 
and  for  same  reason  always  use  an  earthen  or  stoneware  vessel  to  beat 
it  in. 

The  proper  heating  of  the  oven  is  of  great  importance,  especially 
for  large  cakes;  if  not  very  hot  the  batter  will  not  rise.  If  the  oven  be 
too  quick,  and  there  is  danger  of  burning,  put  a  sheet  of  clean  white 
paper  over  the  top. 

To  ascertain  when  a  cake  is  properly  done  stick  a  knife  or  knitting- 
needle  to  the  center,  withdraw  it  quickly,  and  if  it  looks  at  all  sticky 
it  is  not  and  must  be  returned. 

It  is  better  to  keep  cake  in  a  closed  tin  cake-box  or  covered  jar,  and 
always  in  a  dry  place. 

461.  Coldwater  Pound  Cake — Half  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar, 
three  eggs,  one  cup  cold  water,  three  pounds  flaur,  one  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  soda. 

462.  Cocoanut  Cookies — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  one 
egg,  two  tablespoons  milk,  one  and  a-half  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
and  a  little  salt,  one  cup  desiccated  or  grated  cocdanut,  enough  flour 
to  roll. 

463.  Delicious  Cake — One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two 
eggs — the  yelks  and  whites  separately  beaten— half  a  cup  milk,  one  cup 
and  a-half  flour,  and  one  and  a-half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

464.  French  Chocolate  Cake — The  whites  of  seven  eggs 
two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  of  milk  and  three  of  flour, 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder;  the  chocolate  part  of  the  cake  is  made 
the  same  as  the  above,  only  use  yelks  of  the  eggs  and  one  cup  grated 
chocolate;  bake  it  in  layers,  and  spread  a  custard  between  them,  which 
is  made  with  two  eggs,  one  pint  milk,  one:half  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon corn-starch,  and  one  teaspoon  extract  vanilla. 

465.  Jumbles — Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one- 
third  cup  of  milk,  one  and  a-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll. 

466.  Lemon  Cake— One  and  a-half  cups  sugar»  half  cup 
butter,  three  eggs,  half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  half  cup  of  milk, 
two  heaping  cups  sifted  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  the  grated  peel  and 
juice  of  one  lemon;  bake  in  two  shallow  pans,  and  cut  i  ito  squares. 

467.  Lemon  Snaps — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  essence  lemon,  a  quarter  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
a  teaspoon  of  milk,  flour  enough  to  make  very  stiff,  and  roll  very  thin. 

468.  Marble  Cake— For  the  White  Part— Rait  cup  butter, 
one  and  a-half  cups  white  sugar,  half  a  cup  sweet  milk,  two  and  a-half 
pounds  flour,  a  quarter  teaspoon  soda,  the  whites  of  four  eggs;  flavor 
with  lemon. 


Ill 

For  the  Dark  Fart~Hali  cup  butter,  the  same  of  molasses,  two 
of  brown  sugar,  half  cup  sour  milk,  half  teaspoon  soda,  yelks  of  four 
eggs,  and  one  whole  eggy  two  cups  flour,  spices  to  taste;  after  each  part 
is  thoroughly  mixed,  butter  the  pans  well  and  put  in  first  a  couple  of 
large  spoons  of  the  dark,  and  then  the  same  of  white  part,  alternately, 
until  all  is  used. 

469.  Molasses  Gingerbread — One  large  cup  molasses,  one 
tablespoon  lard,  one  cup  sour  milk,  a  dessert  spoon  soda,  one  tablespoon 
ginger,  and  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  paste. 

470.  Neapolitaines — One  pound  of  flour,  half  pound  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  half  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  six  yelks,  quarter  ounce 
of  rose  or  orange  blossom  water;  mix  the  flour,  sugar,  butter  and  eggs 
together  with  the  perfume;  if  too  stiff,  add  a  little  milk;  leave  the 
dough  half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place;  roll  it  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  cut  it  with  a  small  tin  cutter  of  any  shape;  put  the  cakes  on 
a  pan  slightly  greased,  and  color  the  tops  with  beaten  egg  and  milk,  with 
some  chopped  almonds  over  them;  cook  in  a  very  hot  oven. — Fernand 
Fere ,  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Astor  House,  New  York. 

471.  Spice  Cake — One  cup  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  one  eggy  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda;  spice  to 
taste,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter. 

472.  Sponge  Cake — The  desirable  feature  of  good  sponge 
cake  is  its  lightness,  which  is  only  attained  by  long-continued  hard 
beating,  to  do  this  well  requires  two  persons.  While  one  beats  the  yelk 
for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  as  light  and  creamy  as  possible,  and  then 
beats  in  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  sugar  with  rose  water  until  thick 
and  light,  another  person  should  beat  the  whites  until  well  frothed,  but 
do  not  whiten,  then  slowly  beat  into  them  the  remaining  quarter  pound 
of  sugar,  and  whisk  until  it  no  longer  stiffens,  or  until  the  former 
preparation  is  complete.  Now,  lightly  and  steadily  add  the  last  mix- 
ture and  the  flour  with  the  first,  a  little  of  each  alternately,  stirring- 
only  enough  to  mix  them  well,  avoiding  hard  beating  which  would 
toughen  the  whole.  The  buttered  pans  should  be  ready,  and  whether 
round,  square  or  patty  pans,  fill  them  half  to  two-thirds  full;  sift  sugar 
over  them,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Material:  Ten  ounces  of 
sifted  pastry  flour,  a  pound  powdered  sugar,  twelve  eggs,  two  table- 
spoons rose  water,  or  other  flavors  may  be  used,  as  almonds,  using  an 
ounce  blanched  bitter  almonds;  lemon,  use  the  grated  rind  and  juice 
of  two  large  lemons,  mixed  and  strained  after  standing  an  hour; 
vanilla,  use  a  tablespoon  of  vanilla  sugar,  beat  in  with  the  yelks  at 
first — the  two  others  mix  with  the  sugar.  The  cake  may  be  iced  with 
rose  icing  or  with  almond,  orange-flower,  lemon  or  vanilla  icing.  This 
is  a  very  useful  cake  in  the  formation  of  the  different  Charlottes  jelly 
cakes,  lady-fingers,  or  in  small  round  cup  cakes. 

473.  Sponge  Cake — Two  cups  sugar,  five  eggs,  two-thirds 
cup  boiling  water,  two  and  a-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder;  beat  the  yelks  of  the  eggs  thin;    add  the  sugar;  when  well 


112 


beaten  together  add  the  boiling  water,  then  the  whites  which  have  been 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  lastly  the  flour  and  baking  powder;  flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

474.  Cream  Frosting — A  cup  of  sweet  cream  whipped  and 
flavored  with  vanilla,  cut  a  loaf  of  cake  in  two,  spread  the  frosting  be- 
tween and  on  the  top;  this  tastes  like  Charlotte  Russe. 

475.  Hard  or  Plain  Icing  for  Cake— Break  the  whites  of 
four  eggs  into  a  large  platter,  in  a  cool  room,  or  in  summer  set  it  on 
ice;  whisk  them  until  they  foam,  but  do  not  whiten;  then  sift  in  the 
sugar  slowly,  beating  steadily  from  the  bottom,  so  as  to  bring  up  every 
drop  at  each  sweep  of  the  whip,  and  continue  until  as  white  and  fine  as 
snow  and  can  be  cut  with  a  knife. 

If  the  whites  do  not  froth,  throw  in  a  pinch  of  alum  or  soda;  some- 
times they  may  require  a  little  more  sugar,  but  the  average  is  four 
ounces  to  the  white  of  a  full-sized  egg.  This  is  a  plain  icing.  All 
icings  should  be  applied  in  two  coats;  let  the  first  one  dry  before 
putting  on  the  second,  which  can  be  sufficiently  thinned  with  water 
to  work  smooth.  If  any  ornaments  are  used,  they  must  be  put  on 
while  the  second  icing  is  still  moist.  The  flavors  mostly  used  are 
almond,  chocolate,  lemon,  orange,  rose  or  vanilla. 

476.  A  Soft  Icing — Is  preferable  to  hard  for  some  kinds  of 
cake.  Mix  half  a  pound  of  finely  pulverized  and  sifted  sugar  with  a 
tablespoon  boiling  water,  and  the  same  of  any  fruit  juices  fancied; 
spread  at  once  on  the  cake  while  yet  warm,  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick;  color  if  desired. 

CONFECTIONERY. 

We  give  only  such  plain  home-made  candies  as  are  easily  produced. 

Most  kitchens  will  possess  utensils  which  may  be  used  in  candy- 
making,  one  of  the  most  convenient  of  which  is  a  block  tin  sauce-pan, 
with  flaring  sides,  a  long  handle,  and  a  lip  to  facilitate  pouring;  or  a  porce- 
lain, iron  or  brass  kettle  will  do,  but  should  be  very  clean.  Make  can- 
dies in  a  vessel  deep  enough  to  contain  it  when  swelled  by  heat,  and 
remove  from  the  fire  when  danger  of  boiling  over.  Watch  carefully 
that  it  does  not  burn. 

477.  Clarifying  Syrup — Dissolve  four  pounds  white  sugar  in 
a  quart  of  water,  place  over  a  slow  fire  for  half  an  hour  and  stir  in  the 
white  of  an  egg;  skim  off  all  impurities  that  arise,  or  dissolve  together 
a  small  quantity  of  gelatine  and  gum-arabic  and  pour  in  instead  of  the 
^gg*     To  perfect  the  clarification  still  more  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag. 

478.  Other  Candies — Are  produced  from  the  same  syrup  by 
bringing  it  to  such  a  heat  that  the  threads  which  drop  from  the  spoon, 
when  exposed  to  cold  air,  will  be  brittle  and  snap  like  glass.  When 
this  stage  is  reached  add  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar  or  cream  tartar  to  pre- 
vent graining.  It  may  then  be  flavored,  colored,  poured  into  pans  or 
pulled  into  sticks.  To  make  into  sticks  pull  or  roll  into  shape,  with  the 
hands  greased  or  floured. 


H3 

479.  Rock  Candy — Boil  the  above  much  longer;  allow  it  to 
cool,  and  the  crystallization  will  form  at  the  sides  of  the  kettle  or 
adhere  to  threads  hung  in  it. 

480.  Butter  Scotch — Three  pounds  "A  "  coffee  sugar,  aquar- 
ter  pound  butter,  half  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  eight  drops  extract  lemon; 
add  sufficient  water  only  to  dissolve  the  sugar;  boil  without  stirring  till 
it  will  easily  break  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  and  when  done  add  the 
lemon;  pour  into  a  well  buttered  dripping-pan  a  quarter  inch  thick,  and 
when  partly  cold  mark  off  into  small  squares. 

481.  Ice  Cream  Candy — Make  the  candy  as  above,  flavoring 
with  vanilla,  rose  or  lemon,  and  when  partly  cold  pull  until  very  white. 
It  may  also  be  colored  to  a  pink  color  with  a  little  carmine. 

482.  Chocolate  Caramels — One  and  a-half  cups  grated  cho- 
colate, four  of  brown  sugar,  one  and  a-half  cold  water,  an  egg-sized 
piece  of  butter  and  two  tablespoons  sharp  vinegar;  boil  on  the  top  of  a 
stove  over  a  brisk  fire  until  it  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  in  water; 
do  not  stir,  but  shake  the  vessel  while  boiling;  flavor  with  two  table- 
spoons vanilla  just  before  taking  from  the  fire;  pour  into  a  buttered 
and  floured  dripping-pan,  and  check  off  into  even  squares  while  soft. 

483.  Cocoa-Nut  Drops — One  pound  desiccated  cocoa-nut, 
half  pound  powdered  sugar  and  the  wrhite  of  an  egg;  work  all  together, 
roll  into  little  balls  in  the  hand  and  bake  on  buttered  tins. 

484.  Hickory  Nut  Macaroons — To  hickory  nuts  pounded 
fine  add  mixed  ground  allspice  and  nutmeg;  make  a  frosting  as  for 
cakes;  stir  in  the  meats  and  spices,  putting  in  enough  only  to  make  it 
convenient  to  handle;  flour  the  hands,  and  make  the  mixture  into  balls 
about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg;  lay  them  on  tins  well  buttered,  giving 
room  to  spread;  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  use  washed  butter  for  greasing 
the  tins;  lard  or  salt  butter  gives  an  unpleasant  taste. 

485.  Hoarhound  Candy — Boil  two  ounces  dried  hoarhound 
in  a  pint  and  a-half  water  for  about  half  an  hour,  strain  and  add  three 
and  a  half  pounds  brown  sugar;  boil  over  a  hot  fire  until  sufficiently 
hard;  pour  out  in  flat,  well  greased  tins  and  mark  into  sticks  or  small 
squares  with  a  knife  as  soon  as  cool  enough  to  retain  its  shape. 

486.  Molasses  Candy — One  cup  molasses  (common  or  New 
Orleans),  one  cup  sugar,  an  egg-sized  piece  of  butter  sweet  and  not 
salt,  and  a  tablespoon  vinegar;  boil,  but  do  not  stir  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  into  cold  water;  when  done  stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  beat  well;  pour  into  buttered  pans,  and  when  cool  pull  until  white; 
cut  into  sticks;  flavor  if  desired,  just  before  pouring  out  to  cool. 

487.  Caramel  or  Burnt  Sugar — For  Coloring  Soups,  Sauces 
or  Gravies — Put  one  cup  sugar  and  two  teaspoons  water  in  a  sauce- 
pan on  the  fire;  stir  constantly  until  it  is  quite  a  dark  color,  then  add  a  • 
half  cup  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  when 
cold,  bottle. 


^ICE  CREAM.** 


WM.  THOMPSON, 

Manufacturer   of  Pure 
.  AND  WHOLESALE  DEALER  IN 

■^Milk  and  Creams 


I  make  a  specialty  of  Dining  Cars,  Hotels,  Restaurants, 
Picnics,  Church  Festivals,  Dealers,  etc. 

Beino-  the  largest  manufacturer  in  the  West  and  the 
secondln  the  United  States,  and  affording  better  facilities 
than  other  manufacturers,  by  owning  my  own  milk  dairy, 
raising  my  own  cream,  owning  four  farms  stocked  with 
cows,  which  produce  ioo  cans  of  milk  daily,  and  being  the 
largest  milk  dealer  in  the  city,  I  feel  justified  in  guaran- 
teeing to  my  patrons  better  goods  for  the  same  money 
than  any  other  dealer. 

Goods  delivered  in  city  free  of  charge. 

Again  soliciting  your  valued  patronage,  I  am,  very 
respectfully,  yours, 

WM.  THOMPSON, 

154  Dearborn  St.,  Chicago,  111. 

P.  S.— Country  orders  will  receive  prompt  attention. 
Special  rates  to  dealers. 


CUSTARDS,  CREAMS  9  ICES. 

Note — The  preparation  of  these  delicacies  successfully  is  a  matter 
of  considerable  care  and  attention  to  detail,  and  the  following  condensed 
directions  are  necessary: 

A  custard-kettle  is  almost  indispensable,  but  one  may  be  improvised 
by  setting  a  tin  pail  within  a  kettle  or  sauce-pan;  it  is  made  of  block  tin 
or  tinned  iron,  one  within  the  other,  forming  a  water-bath.  Gelatine 
used  for  creams  should  be  soaked  for  an  hour  or  so  in  a  little  cold 
water  or  milk  set  in  a  warm  place;  a  bowl  set  in  the  top  of  a  tea  kettle 
will  be  most  convenient.  Use  it  by  pouring  into  the  hot  custard  just 
after  removing  from  the  fire.  For  creams  or  custards,  eggs  should  be 
beaten  in  stone  or  earthenware  to  attain  the  creamy  lightness  desirable. 
For  custards,  the  usual  rule  is  four  eggs,  a  cup  sugar,  and  a  saltspoon 
of  salt  to  a  quart  of  milk.  Bake  in  a  baking-dish  until  firm  in  the 
center,  taking  care  that  the  heat  is  but  moderate,  or  it  will  turn  mostly 
to  whey;  it  will  thus  be  much  more  delicate.  For  boiled  custards,  the 
yelks  alone  should  be  used,  but  for  economy,  the  whole  egg;  boil  the 
milk  in  the  custard-kettle,  and  when,  by  a  light  foam  on  top,  it  shows,  to 
be  about  boiling,  add  the  sugar;  let  it  remain  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
until  it  thickens  a  little,  but  not  long  enough  to  curdle,  then  immedi- 
ately set  the  inner  kettle  (or  pail,  if  not  a  custard-kettle)  in  cold  water, 
or  at  once  turn  out  into  a  cold  dish;  curdling  will  result  from  its  stand- 
ing in  the  kettle.  Boiled  custards  require  the  closest  attention  until 
finished.  A  box-wood  or  heavily  tinned  iron  spoon,  with  a  long  handle, 
should  be  used  for  custards  or  creams. 

The  moulds  for  Charlotte  Russe,  blanc  mange,  and  all  other  creams 
should  be  first  wTet  with  cold  water  before  setting  on  the  ice  to  harden. 
Gelatine  is  not  necessary  for  Charlotte  Russe;  the  filling  may  be  made  stiff 
enough  by  using  an  egg  whip  or  beater,  or  whip  churn,  for  the  purpose. 

488.  Ice  Creams — Note — There  are  two  entire  different  and 
distinct  kinds  produced  by  confectioners  or  professional  caterers  in  this 
country,  one  known  as  Neapolitan  (originally  produced  at  Naples,  in 
Italy),  and  the  Philadelphia,  originating  in  that  city.  The  former  con- 
tains a  greater  proportion  of  eggs,  and  is  rich,  smooth  and  solid  as  butter, 
is  a  lemon  yellow  color  and  custard  flavor.  The  latter  has  the  full,  rich 
flavor  of  sweet  cream,  and  of  a  creamy  white  tint. 

489.  The  Materials  for  ice  cream  are  principally  cream,  sugar, 
eggs,  all  varieties  of  flavors,  fruit  and  their  juices,  ice  and  salt;  also  may 
be  added  different  colorings. 

490.  The  Cream — Regarding  cream,  it  may  be  said  here  that  it 
can  have  no  substitute,  either  by  dilution  with  part  milk,  or  milk  and 
either  tapioca,  arrowroot,  corn-starch  or  the  addition  of  gelatine;  the 
production  will  not  be  ice  cream,  but  a  frozen  milk  custard.  The  first 
operation  is  the  cooking  of  the  cream  and  sugar,  with  or  without  eggs, 
according  to  the  kind,  Neapolitan  or  Philadelphia,  desired. 


n6 

491 .  For  Neapolitan  Ice  Cream — Strain  and  beat  the  yelks  to  a 
smooth  cream,  add  the  sugar  and  again  beat;  strain  and  whisk  the  whites 
to  the  stiffest  possible  froth,  and  stir  briskly  with  the  yelks  and  sugar; 
then  mix  with  the  cream,  adding  such  flavors  as  are  needed  to  be 
cooked.  Cook  the  whole  in  a  custard-kettle  over  a  brisk  fire,  stirring 
continually  until  it  will  slightly  coat  the  blade  of  a  knife,  but  does  not 
run;  then  be  careful  it  does  not  curdle.  Take  it  off  the  fire  and  strain 
through  a  wire  sieve  into  a  crockery  ware  bowl;  cover  it  with  a  gauze 
and  let  it  cool;  pour  it  into  the  freezer  (which  should  be  of  at  least  six 
quarts  capacity),  and  set  it  in  the  ice  pail  or  tub,  well  pack  it  with  ice, 
and  let  it  stand,  covered  only  with  gauze,  until  thoroughly  cold,  when 
it  is  ready  for  freezing. 

492.  For  Philadelphia  Ice  Cream — It  is  sometimes  made  from 
uncooked  cream,  if  fresh,  and  if  desired  of  a  very  light  or  snowy  texture, 
this  is  better,  but  must  be  beat,  during  its  entire  freezing,  vigorously. 
It  will  swell  or  increase  in  bulk  from  a  quarter  to  a  third,  but  loses  in 
quality,  and  consequently  the  cooking  is  preferable,  giving  it  greater 
body  and  richness.  Cook  it  in  a  custard-kettle,  as  previously  directed, 
until  the  water  in  the  outer  pan  boils,  take  it  off  the  fire,  add  the  sugar 
and  any  flavors  that  may  be  cooked  with  it,  stir  until  the  sugar  is  entirely 
dissolved,  let  stand  a  few  minutes,  strain  and  cool  same  as  the  Neapolitan. 
Fruit  juices  are  not  to  be  cooked  with  cream  in  any  case,  but  mixed 
with  the  sugar;  stir  until  a  clear  syrup  is  produced,  and  stirred  into  the 
ice  cold  cream  before  commencing  to  freeze  it;  or  better,  beaten 
into  it  just  after  it  is  frozen.  In  attempting  to  freeze  cream  when  even 
lukewarm,  it  is  apt  to  curdle  or  become  granulated;  it  is  also  more 
rapidly  and  easily  frozen  if  first  chilled,  and  with  less  ice. 

493.  The  Freezer — For  family  use,  select  one  of  the  new  patent 
freezers,  as  being  more  rapid  and  less  laborious  for  small  quantities  than 
the  old  style  turned  entirely  by  the  hand.  All  conditions  being  perfect, 
those  with  crank  and  revolving  dashers  effect  freezing  in  eight  to  fifteen 
minutes. 

494.  Freezing — Take  the  freezer  containing  the  ice  cream,  as 
above,  from  the  ice-pail,  remove  the  ice  and  water;  replace  the  freezer 
and  pack  with  ice  nearly  to  the  brim,  sprinkling  a  quart  of  coarse  salt 
uniformly  through  it  as  it  is  put  in;  cover  and  fasten  the  can  and  turn 
the  crank  until  difficult  to  turn  longer;  open  the  can,  remove  the  dasher, 
scrape  the  hardened  cream  from  the  sides  with  a  spatula,  and  beat  the 
contents  with  a  wooden  paddle  till  smooth,  but  no  longer;  close  the  can, 
draw  off  the  salt  brine  into  a  bucket;  add  fresh  salt  and  ice,  covering 
also  the  top;  wrap  a  blanket  or  piece  of  carpet  around  and  over  the 
ice-pail;  wet  it  well  with  icy  brine  and  let  stand  for  an  hour  and  a-half 
to  two  hours;  open  the  freezer,  scrape  down  and  beat  the  cream  again, 
and  again  pack  with  fresh  ice  and  salt  to  harden  and  ripen.  Be  very 
careful  not  to  let  a  drop  of  brine  or  a  grain  of  salt  get  into  the  cream. 
In  very  warm  weather  it  may  be  necessary  to  renew  the  ice  and  salt  a 
second  or  third  time;  it  should  always  be  done  whenever  the  brine 
floats  the  ice.  All  the  directions  being  followed  no  better  ice  cream 
can  be  produced. 


"7 

495.  Water  Ices — Note — Are  all  compounded  of  the  juice  of 
fruit,  sugar  and  water.  For  the  reason  that  they  are  generally  pro- 
duced in  texture  like  a  hardened  mixture  of  flavored  snow  and  water, 
often  lumpy  and  having  a  gritty  taste,  they  enjoy  less  popularity  than 
ice  creams.  They  melt  quickly,  even  in  the  freezing  can,  if  left  open 
but  a  few  minutes,  and  soon  become  soft  and  spongy.  Water  ices  are 
made  of  many  degrees  of  richness,  from  the  pure  juice  of  fruit,  with 
its  weight  of  sugar,  down  to  a  simple  frozen  lemonade. 

By  observing  the  following  directions  they  may  be  made  as  smooth 
and  firm  as  the  best  ice  cream. 

4:96.  General  Instructions  for  Producing  in  every  Variety— -The 
sugar  and  water  must  be  cooked  in  a  custard-kettle  to  a  clear  syrup, 
the  scum  removed  and  then  strained  through  a  fine  muslin  cloth  and  set 
to  cool;  pour  it  into  the  freezer,  add  the  prepared  fruit  juices  and  other 
materials,  if  any,  and  pack  with  ice  in  lumps  the  size  of  an  egg,  sprinkling 
in  a  quart  of  coarse  salt  as  it  is  added;  cover  and  fasten  the  can,  and 
turn  slowly  and  steadily  until  it  goes  rather  hard.  It  requires  more  time 
for  freezing  than  for  ice  creams,  generally  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

Open  the  can,  scrape  down  the  sides,  and  stir  till  smooth;  then  put 
in  the  white  of  one  eggy  beaten  with  a  teaspoon  of  finely  powdered 
sugar,  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  worked  smooth;  a  larger  quantity  of  egg  is 
apt  to  produce  a  milky  appearance. 

Then  proceed  as  for  ice  cream  at  this  stage,  letting  it  stand  longer, 
two  to  three  hours.     Always  keep  the  blanket  wet  with  the  icy  brine. 

If  the  granular  kind  of  ices  are  desired,  mix  the  sugar,  water  and 
juices,  and  freeze  without  cooking;  also  omit  the  egg  finish. 

When  fruit  jellies  are  used,  gently  heat  the  water  sufficiently  to 
melt  them,  then  cool  and  freeze  as  above  directed.  ^ 

497.  Moulding — Ice  creams  and  water  ices  are  moulded  in  same 
manner.  The  moulds  should  be  filled  solidly  in  every  part,  to  expel  all 
air;  heap  the  cream  a  little  above  the  brim,  press  the  cover  down  hard, 
bind  a  buttered  cloth  over  the  joint,  and  bury  it  in  ice  and  salt.  If  the 
mould  be  a  figure  in  two  parts,  fill  each  half  a  little  more  than  full; 
the  excess  will  squeeze  out  on  closing,  f  When  ready  to  serve,  wash  the 
moulds  in  cold  water,  take  off  the  cloth,  wipe,  the  mould  dry,  lift  off 
the  cover,  and  turn  it  over  on  a  plate;  if  the  room  is  warm  it  will  slip 
off  the  cream  in  a  few  minutes.     Never  immerse  or  use  warm  water. 

498.  Granites  or  "  Frappes  " — Turn  them  out  as  soon  as 
half  frozen,  like  wet  snow. 

Six  quarts  of  the  following  are  produced  by  this  process: 

499.  Orange  Ice — Three  quarts  water,  four  pounds  sugar,  one 
quart  orange  juice  and  juice  of  two  lemons;  requires  a  dozen  and  a 
half  juicy  oranges.  Lemon,  strawberry  or  raspberry  made  in  same 
manner,  using  the  fruit  juices  or  extracts. 

J  500.  Pineapple  Ice — Water  and  sugar  as  above;  one  and  a-half 
pints  pineapple,  a  gill  orange,  and  half  a  gill  lemon  juices;  requires  two 
large  pines,  six  oranges  and  three  lemons.  The  pineapple  juice  is  pre- 
pared thus:  Select  bird's-eye  pines,  take  out  the  core  or  heart,  which  is 
bitter;  mash  and  strain  the  pulp,  using  immediately,  as  it  quickly  darkens, 


BUSSING* 

VINEGAR 

AN  ABSOLUTELY  PURE  ARTICLE, 


M-^JDE    OF 


Clarified  Cider  f  Malt  Spirits 

Combining  the  Fruity  Flavor  of  the  Apple,  with  the 
Preserving  Quality  of  a  Malt  Vinegar. 


The  Only  Reliable  Yinegar  For  Pickling ! 

Every  Barrel  Labeled  with  our  Written  Guarantee  of  its 
Absolute  Purity  and  Preserving  Qualities.  Housekeepers 
should  insist  on  getting 

PRUSSING'S  APPLE  VINEGAR 

If  they  want  their  Pickles  kept  Crisp  and  Firm  for  Years. 

First  Premiums  Awarded  at  United  States,  Illinois 
State,  and  Chicago  City  Fairs. 

Prussing  Vinegar  Co. 

OHICAOO. 


SAUCES,  CATSUPS  P  PICKLES. 

Sauces Note—Not    the    least    in    importance    in    the    art   of 

cookery  are  sauces.  Many  an  excellent  piece  of  meat  or  fowls  are 
spoiled  by  using  a  bad,  inappropriate  or  indifferent  sauce;  while,  on  the 
other  hand,  good  sauces  add  much  to  the  delicacy  of  food  preparations. 
In  nothing  is  there  a  wider  or  a  better  field  for  the  display  of  the  talent 
or  taste  of  the  cook  than  in  their  skillful  production  or  adaptability. 
Contrary  to  an  erroneous  but  prevailing  opinion,  good  sauces  or  gravies 
are  quite  easily  and  inexpensively  produced.  They  should  all  be  de- 
cided in  character,  and  whether  sweet,  piquant,  savory  or  plain,  should 
maintain  their  name  by  their  flavor. 

The  basis  of  most  sauces  or  gravies  is  the  same  as  for  soups— the 
"  stock  kettle  "  (see  note  on  Soups,  page  81). 

Being  usually  served  in  smaller  quantities  than  soups,  and  as  they 
should  be  served  very  hot,  they  require  the  special  care  of  the  cook. 
Those  sauces  formed  in  part  of  cream  or  eggs  should  be  well  stirred 
from  the  time  they  are  added,  and  while  kept  very  hot,  to  prevent 
curdling,  should  never  be  allowed  to  boil.  As  a  rule  they  should  be 
added  last,  or  just  before  serving.  Stir  soups,  sauces  or  catsups  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  never  a  metal  one. 

501.  Anchovy  Sauce— Add  two  teaspoons  of  anchovy  paste 
or  essence— kept  by  all  first-class  grocers— to  white  sauce,  No.  515,  or 
drawn  butter,  No.  507.  It  should  be  served  with  or  upon  'boiled  fish, 
especially  boiled  cod. 

502.  Apple  Sauce— Made  plain,  simply  stewing  and  sweeten- 
ing, adding  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  or  both;  is  usually  served 
with  roast  pork  or  goose. 

503.  Caper  or  Nasturtion  Sauce  —  For  Boiled  Mutton  — 
Chop  the  capers  a  very  little,  unless  quite  small;  make  half  a  pint 
drawn  butter,  to  which  add  the  capers,  with  a  large  spoon  of  the  juice 
from  the  bottle  in  which  they  are  sold;  let  it  just  simmer,  and  serve  in 
a  tureen.  Nasturtions  much  resemble  capers  in  taste,  though  larger, 
and  may  be  used,  and,  in  fact,  are  preferred  by  many.  They  are  grown 
on  a  climbing  vine,  and  are  cultivated  for  their  blossom  and  for  pickling. 
When  used  as  capers  they  should  be  chopped  more.  If  neither  capers 
or  nasturtions  are  at  hand  some  pickled  gherkins,  chopped  up,  form  a 
very  good  substitute  in  the  sauce. 

504.  Chili  Sauce— Take  twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  four  ripe 
or'  three  green  peppers,  two  onions,  two  tablespoons  salt,  two  of  sugar, 
one  of  cinnamon,  three  cups  vinegar;  peel  tomatoes  and  onions;  chop 
them  separately  very  fine;  add  the  peppers  chopped  with  the  other 
ingredients,  and  boil  one  and  a-half  hours.  A  quart,  of  canned  toma 
toes  may  be  used  instead  of  the  ripe  ones,  when  out  of  season 


120 

505.  Chili  Sauce — Use  twenty-six  medium-sized  ripe  tomatoes, 
two  onions,  four  peppers — one  green — chopped  fine,  two  cups  vinegar, 
two  tablespoons  salt,  twelve  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  two  of  ginger, 
two  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves,  one  of  allspice,  one  nutmeg; 
boil  gently  about  two  hours;  for  larger  quantities  use  same  proportions. 

506.  Cranberry  Sauce — After  removing  all  imperfect  or  soft 
berries,  wash  thoroughly;  place  for  about  two  minutes  in  scalding 
water;  skim  out  or  drain,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  add  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound  granulated  sugar,  a  half  pint  water,  and  stew 
over  a  moderate  fire.  Be  careful  to  cover,  but  don't  stir  the  fruit, 
occasionally  shaking  the  pan  if  in  danger  of  burning.  The  berries  will 
thus  retain  their  shape  and  add  to  their  appearance.  Boil  from  five  to 
seven  minutes;  remove  from  fire;  turn  into  a  deep  dish,  and  set  aside 
to  cool.     If  to  be  kept,  they  can  be  put  up  in  air-tight  jars. 

507.  Drawn  Butter — Into  a  half  tablespoon  of  flour  rub  a  small 
cup  of  butter;  beat  it  very  thoroughly  until  smooth;  add  a  little  salt  if 
the  butter  does  not  afford  enough,  and  pour  on  it  half  a  pint  boiling 
water,  stirring  fast;  do  not  let  it  boil,  or  it  will  be  oily,  and  conse- 
quently spoiled.  It  will  be  less  likely  to  burn  if  prepared  in  a  custard 
kettle  or  water  bath.  This  resembles  the  white  sauce,  No.  515,  and  may 
be  made  'to  form  the  nucleus  for  a  great  variety  of  sauces  for  fish, 
poultry  or  boiled  meats  by  the  addition  of  different  herbs;  first  throw 
them  into  boiling  water,  cut  fine,  and  add. 

508.  Green  Tomato  Sauce — Cut  up  a  pint  of  green  toma- 
toes; take  three  gills  black  mustard  seed,  three  tablespoons  dry  mus- 
tard, two  and  a-half  of  black  pepper,  one  and  a-half  allspice,  four  of 
salt,  two  of  -celery  seed,  one  quart  each  of  chopped  onions  and  sugar, 
and  two  and  a-half  quarts  good  vinegar,  a  little  red  pepper  to  taste; 
beat  the  spices  and  boil  all  together  until  well  done. 

509.  Lemon  Sauce — Cut  three  slices  of  lemon  into  very 
small  dice,  and  put  them  into  drawn  butter;  let  it  come  just  to  boiling 
point,  and  pour  over  boiled  fowls. 

510.  Lobster  Sauce — Chop  the  meat  from  the  claws  and  tail 
of  a  good  sized  lobster  into  pieces,  but  not  too  small,  and  half  an  hour 
before  dinner  make  half  a  pint  drawn  butter  or  white  sauce  and  mix. 

511.  Mayonnaise  Sauce — In  hot  weather  it  may  be  neces- 
sary to  place  the  bowl  over  ice  in  preparing  it;  in  a  two-quart  bowl  mix 
one  even  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  one  of  salt  and  one  and  a-half  of  vine- 
gar; beat  in  the  yelk  of  a  raw  eggy  then  add  very  gradually  half  a  pint 
pure  olive  oil  or  clarified  butter,  beating  briskly  all  the  time;  the  mix- 
ture will  become  a  very  thick  batter;  flavor  with  vinegar  or  fresh 
lemon  juice;  when  closely  covered  it  will  keep  for  some  weeks  in  a 
cold  place. 

512.  Mint  Sauce — The  mint  usually  employed  is  spearmint, 
although  peppermint  for  convenience  is  sometimes  used.  Take  fresh, 
young  mint,  strip  leaves  from  stems,  wash,  drain  on  a  sieve  or  dry  them 
on  a  cloth;  chop  very  fine,  put  in  a  sauce-tureen,  and  to  three  neaped 


121 

tablespoons  mint  add  two  of  powdered  sugar;  let  remain  a  few  minutes 
well  mixed  together,  and  pour  over  it  gradually  six  tablespoons  of  good 
vinegar;  the  sauce  may  be  strained  after  it  has  stood  for  two  or  three 
hours,  pressing  it  well;  it  should  be  made  an  hour  or  two  before  dinner 
that  the  flavor  may  be-well  extracted;  is  considered  almost  indispensible 
with  roast  lamb. 

513.  Oyster  Sauce — From  half  a  pint  of  oysters  carefully 
remove  all  bits  of  shell,  and  set  over  the  fire  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  let  it  boil  three  minutes;  skim  well  and  stir  in  a  half  cup  butter, 
beaten  to  a  cream,  with  two  tablespoons  flour;  let  it  come  to  a.-  boil. 
Is  served  with  boiled  turkey. 

514.  Oyster  Sauce — Make  a  white  sauce,  No.  515;  boil  the 
oysters  slightly,  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the  same. 

515.  White  Sauce — Put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  small 
sauce-pan,  set  it  on  the  fire,  stir  a  little,  and  as  soon  as  melted  remove 
to  a  slower  fire;  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  stir  continually  till  thor- 
oughly mixed,  and  gently  pour  in  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  con- 
tinually; when  it  begins  to  thicken  take  off  the  fire;  add  the  yelk  of  an 
Gggy  beaten  with  a  teaspoon  of  cold  water;  mix  it  well  with  the  sauce; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  it  is  done. 

516.  Orange  Hard  Sauce — Select  a  thin-skinned  orange,  care- 
fully peel  it  in  six  even  parts  towards  the  stem  end,  preserving  it  whole; 
extract  the  juice  and  mix  it  with  a  light,  moist  (extra  C)  sugar  sufficient  to 

,  form  into  a  ball  nearly  the  size  of  the  orange  originally,  which  place  in 
the  peel  and  serve.     A  lemon  sauce  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. 

517.  A  Sweet  Sauce  for  Puddings — In  half  a  pmt  of  melted 
butter  with  milk  stir  three  tablespoons  powdered  or  granulated  sugar, 
a  little  grated  lemon-rind,  nutmeg  or  powdered  cinnamon;  other  flavor- 
ing fancied  may  be  added  to  the  milk  in  preparing  the  butter;  is  served 
with  rice,  batter  or  bread  puddings. 

518.  Sour  Sauce— Mix  one  and  a-half  cups  sugar  and  half  a 
tablespoon  flour  in  a  little  water;  add  two  tablespoons  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice,  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grated  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  pour  over  it 
one  and -a-half  pints  boiling  water,  and  boil  ten  minutes;  just  before 
taking  up  add  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 

519.  A  Sauce  for  Fritters— See  under  Fritters  No.  90. 

CATSUPS. 

Note. — In  making  any  kind  of  catsup  use  a  granite  or  porcelain 
kettle;  never  in  mettle,  or  it  will  not  only  discolor  but  affect  its  flavor. 
Always  select  perfect  fruit,  vegetables  or  other  materials,  and  keep  in 
stone  or  glass  bottles  or  jars;  never  use  tin  cans  with  any  expectation 
that  it  will  not  spoil,  or  preserve  its  original  taste.  It  will  be  less  apt  to 
mould  if  the  bottles  or  jars  are  not  filled  quite  to  the  top.  Some  fill  up 
with  hot  vinegar.  Should  there  be  a  skim  of  mould  over  the  top  when 
opened,  remove  every  particle  and  the  catsup  will  be  uninjured.  When, 
however,  there  appears  white  specks  through  it,  it  is  irretrievably  spoiled. 


122 

After  opening,  if  too  thick,  add  vinegar  sufficient  to  thin;  or,  if  in 
danger  of  souring  before  it  is  all  used,  scalding  will  prevent  it. 

520.  Mushroom  Catsup — Use  the  larger  kind,  known  as 
umbrella  or  "  flaps."  They  must  be  very  fresh  and  not  gathered  in 
very  wet  weather,  or  the  catsup  will  be  less  apt  to  keep.  Wash  and  cut 
them  in  two  to  four  pieces,  and  place  them  in  a  wide  flat  jar  or  crock 
in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  salt,  and  let  them  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours;  take  them  out  and  press  out  the  juice,  when  bottle  and 
cork;  put  the  mushrooms  back  again,  and  in  another  twenty-four  hours 
pressnhem  again,  bottle  and  cork;  repeat  this  for  the  third  time,  and 
then  mix  together  all  the  juice  extracted;  add  to  it  pepper,  allspice, 
one  or  more  cloves,  according  to  quantity,  pounded  together;  boil  the 
whole,  and  skim  as  long  as  any  scum  rises;  bottle  when  cool;  put  in 
each  bottle  two  cloves  and  a  pepper-corn.  Cork  and  seal,  put  in  a  dry 
place,  and  it  will  keep  for  years. 

521.  Tomato  Catsup — Take  one  bushel  of  solid  ripe  to- 
matoes; clean  them  with  a  wet  cloth,  cut  off  any  unripe,  part  about  the 
stem  end,  or  any  warts  or  blemish;  put  them  in  a  granite  or  porce- 
lain-lined kettle,  or  a  genuine  bell-metal  one,  never  let  them  come 
in  contact  with  iron;  pour  over  them  about  three  pints  of  water;  add 
ten  or  twelve  onions  or  shallots,  cut  fine;  boil  until  soft;  some  take 
about  two  hours;  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve,  pour  the  liquid  back 
again  into  the  boiling  kettle,  and  add  half  a  gallon  of  good  cider  vine- 
gar; then  take  two  ounces  ground  spice,  two  ounces  ground  black 
pepper,  two  ounces  mustard  (seed  or  ground,  as  preferred),  one  ounce 
ground  cloves,  two  grated  nutmegs,  two  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  and 
one  pint  of  salt;  mix  these  ingredients  well  together  and  put  in  the 
boiler,  boiling  two  hours,  stirring  continually  to  prevent  burning; 
cayenne  pepper  to  be  added  to  taste  if  wished  hot.  When  cool,  fill 
bottles  or  jars.  Cork  and  seal  with  wax,  so  as  to  exclude  the  air  (see 
note  for  directions  regarding  preservation  of  catsup).  Keep  in  a  cool, 
dry  place. 

PICKLES. 

Note — For  pickles  use  the  best  cider  or  white  wine  vinegar,  when 
the  latter  can  be  procured,  and  not  an  acid  vinegar,  so  called.  It  can 
not  be  too  strong,  as  it  is  weakened  when  scalded  to  pour  over  the 
pickles.     Unscalded  vinegar  does  not  keep  well  with  pickles. 

Never  use  a  metal  vessel  in  pickling;  it  should  be  either  the  new 
granite  ware  or  porcelain,  and  keep  in  stone  or  glass,  in  the  cellar  or 
other  cool,  dark  place.  They  should  be  examined  frequently,  and  soft 
ones  removed;  if  white  specks  appear  in  the  vinegar  drain  it  off  and 
scald,  add  a  half  tea-cup  of  sugar  to  each  gallon  and  pour  again  over 
the  pickles;  a  few  bits  of  horse-radish  or  a  few  cloves  in  the  vinegar 
will  aid  in  maintaining  its  life. 

All  vegetables  or  fruit  for  pickling,  except  for  sweet  pickles,  should 
be  sound,  but  not  quite  ripe.  Do  not  scald  cucumbers,  but  soak  them  in 
salt  and  water.  Boiled  beets  can  be  pickled  whole,  first  removing  the 
skin,  to  be  sliced  when  required.     Vegetables  that  require  to  be  boiled  or 


123 

scalded  before  pickling  will  be  whiter  if  a  little  lemon  or  green  grape  juice 
is  added  to  the  water,  as  cabbage,  cauliflower,  melons,  mangoes,  white 
beets  or  onions.  Care  should  be  used  not  t©  scald  too  much,  or  they 
will  be  soft  and  tasteless.  For  green  vegetables  put  a  little  soda  in  the 
water  to  preserve  the  color.  Always  have  the  vegetables  or  fruit  perfectly 
cold  before  pouring  over  the  vinegar,  which  should  be  in  all  cases  very  hot. 
A  good  average  of  spices  to  a  quart  of  pickles  is  an  even  teaspoon 
of  each  of  allspice,  pepper  corns,  half  each  of  mustard  seed  or  horse- 
radish finely  chopped,  a  tablespoon  of  stick  cinnamon  broken,  and 
a  piece  of  Jamaica  ginger  an  inch  long. 

522.  Pickled  Cucumbers — The  small  green  ones,  termed 
gherkins,  are  the  best  to  use.  Clean  them  well  in  cold  water  with  a 
brush,  removing  all  prickles,  and  soak  in  a  strong  rock-salt  brine  for 
about  three  days;  take  them  out  and  put  into  wide-mouthed  bottles  or 
jars,  with  a  few  cloves  of  garlic,  pepper-corns,  cloves,  rock-salt,  and  a 
bunch  of  seasonings,  composed  of  bay  leaves,  tarragon,  or  other  flavor- 
ing herbs,  to  taste,  all  tied  in  a  Swiss  muslin  bag;  fill  each  jar  with 
vinegar  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  when  they  are  perfectly  cold  cover  them 
air-tight.  They  should  be  looked  at  every,  two  or  three  days  for  first 
three  weeks,  and  should  the  pickles  or  vinegar  turn  white,  throw  away 
the  vinegar  and  spices,  and  add  new  hot  vinegar  and  fresh  spices;  cover 
when  cold  as  before.  Small  white  onions  may  be  pickled  with  the 
cucumbers  if  desired. 

523.  Pickled  Onions — Select  small  silver-skinned  onions;  re- 
move with  a  knife  all  the  outer  skins,  so  that  each  onion  will  be  per- 
fectly white  and  clean;  soak  them  in  strong  brine  three  days,  drain. 
Place  in  a  jar  first  a  layer  of  onions  three  inches  deep,  then  sprinkle 
with  a  mixture  of  the  following:  Two  teaspoons  each  chopped  horse- 
radish and  cloves,  four  tablespoons  cinnamon  bark  and  half  a  teaspoon 
cayenne  pepper  to  each  gallon  of  pickles;  then  another  layer  of  onions, 
and  repeat  until  jar  is  filled;  bring  vinegar  to  boiling  point;  add  brown 
sugar  in  the  proportion  of  a  quart  to  a  gallon,and  pour  hot  over  the  onions. 

524.  Piccalilli — One  large  white  cabbage,  fifty  small  cucum- 
bers (gherkins),  five  quarts  small  string  beans,  eight  small  carrots,  one 
dozen  sticks  celery,  five  red  peppers,  three  green  peppers,  two  heads 
cauliflower;  chop  fine,  soak  over  night  in  salt  and  water;  wash  well, 
drain  thoroughly,  and  pour  over  them  hot  vinegar  spiced  with  mace, 
cinnamon  and  allspice;  turn  off  vinegar  and  scald;  place  in  common 
well  covered  jars,  or  seal  in  cans  while  hot. 

525.  Sweet  Pickles — They  may  be  made  of  any  fruit  that  can 
be  preserved,  including  the  rinds  of  ripe  watermelons  and  cucumbers. 
The  syrup  is  made  in  the  proportions  of  three  pints  of  sugar  to  a  quart 
of  vinegar.  Use  the  best  vinegar  and  "  C  "  coffee  or  best  brown  sugar. 
The  spices  to  be  used  are  principally  stick  cinnamon  and  whole  cloves; 
the  latter  stuck  in  the  fruit  if  desired  highly  spiced. 

526.  Sweet  Pickle  for  Fruit — For  each  seven  pounds  of  fruit 
take  four  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  half  an  ounce 
cloves  and  the  same  of  cinnamon;  boil  all  but  the  fruit  two  mornings 
in  succession,  and  pour  over  the  fruit;  the  third  morning  boil  all  together. 


H.  WICHERT, 


77, 79, 81  &  83  W.Lake  Street, 

CHICAGO 


MANUFACTURER 


MUSTARD 


AND 


PICKLES 


Olivet  Salad  Oils. 


PREPARER  OF 


HORSE    RADISH, 


Genuine  Tomato  Catsup 


AND 


Table  Sauces. 


JELLIES  AND  PRESERVES. 

Note — Of  the  different  sweetmeats  compounded  with  sugar  are 
jellies,  preserves,  marmalades,  jams  and  candied  fruits. 

In  producing  any  of  the  above  the  greatest  care  must  be  taken, 
as  economy  of  time  will  be  likely  to  prove  a  waste  of  material.  All 
fruits  employed  should  be  of  the  freshest,  and  if  possible  those  gathered 
in  the  morning,  in  dry  weather,  when  they  will  possess  the  fullest  flavor 
and  keep  longer. 

The  best  sugar  is  the  most  economical  for  preserves,  jams,  etc., 
and  clarified  or  loaf  sugar  for  jellies.  For  clear,  transparent  syrups 
used  in  preserves,  refined  sugars  must  be  used,  although  darker  shades 
may  be  clarified. 

The  utensils  used  should  be  of  porcelain,  granite-ware,  block-tin, 
genuine  bell  metal,  copper  or  brass.  The  three  last  should  be  kept 
particularly  bright  and  clean.  It  is  better  to  use  a  boxwood  or  wedge- 
wood-ware  spoon,  rather  than  metal,  for  all  purposes  of  stirring  or 
handling. 

JELLIES. 

Note — Fruit  jellies  are  compounded  ot  the  juice  of  fruits,  com- 
bined with  sugar,  concentrated  by  boiling  to  such  a  consistency  that  the 
liquid  upon  cooling  assumes  the  form  of  a  tremulous  jelly.  Many 
fruits  do  not  contain  sufficient  gelatine  properties  to  assume  the  jelly 
form,  when  the  refined  gelatine  or  isinglass  must  be  used  in  sufficient 
quantities  to  produce  that  result.  The  best  meat  jellies  are  made  from 
calves'  feet  or  head,  by  the  addition  of  sugar  and  flavors. 

'  A  jelly  bag  is  an  essential  to  jelly  making,  and  is  made  as  follows: 
Use  a  stout  white  flannel  cloth  (that  called  double-milled,  much  used 
for  ironing  blankets,  is  the  best);  cut  it  in  the  shape  of  a  fool's  cap,  lap 
the  edges,  and  stitch  each  edge.  The  most  convenient  way  of  using 
is  to  tie  it  on  a  hoop  the  exact  size  of  the  mouth  of  the  bag,  for  which 
purpose  several  tapes  should  be  sewn  round  the  edge  at  equal  distances. 
A  convenient  way  of  using  is  to  suspend  it  from  the  back  of  a  chair. 
Jellies  are  moulded  in  various  fanciful  forms,  the  moulds  for  which 
are  formed  of  tinned  copper  or  block-tin,  and  may  be  procured  at  any 
housekeeping  emporium.  The  jellies  may  be  moulded  at  any  time  before 
using,  after  having  been  bottled  or  kept  in  jars,  by  simply  melting  and 
pouring  into  the  moulds  previously  soaked  in  cold  water.  To  remove 
from  the  mould  set  them  in  hot  water  for  a  moment.  Additional  flavors 
may  be  added  at  this  time. 

Jellies  should  be  kept  in  glass  jars  or  tumblers,  and  may  be  filled 
with  the  boiling  liquid  without  cracking  them,  if.  previously  greased  on 
the  outside  with  a  little  butter  or  lard  and  pouring  in  the  first  spoon  or 
two  slowly.  Cover  with  writing  paper  cut  to  fit,  pressed .  closely  over 
the  jelly,  and  put  on  the  lid  or  cover  with  thick  paper,  rubbed  over  on 
the  inside  with  the  white  of  an  egg. 


126 

Jelly  needs  more  attention  in  damp  or  rainy  weather  than  in  other. 
It  should  be  examined  occasionally,  and  if  there  are  any  signs  of  fer- 
mentation reboil  and  strain.  r 

527.  Calves  Foot  Stock  for  Jellies — It  should  be  made  at 
least  one  day  before  it  is  required  for  use,  so  it  may  be  well  cooled,  and 
all  fat  can  then  be  more  thoroughly  removed.  Procure  two  nicely- 
dressed  calves  feet,  wash  them,  remove  the  fat  from  between  the  toes, 
and  put  into  six  pints  cold  water,  which  gradually  bring  to  a  boil,  re- 
moving all  scum  as  it  rises.  Boil  it  gently  six  to  seven  hours,  until  the 
water  is  reduced  about  half,  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve  into  a  basin, 
and  place  in  a  cool  place  to  set.  When  straining,  measure  the  liquor. 
To  clarify  it  remove  all  fat  from  the  top,  and  pour  over  a  little  warm 
water  to  remove  any  remaining,  and  wipe  the  jelly  with  a  clean  cloth. 
Remove  the  jelly  from  all  sediment,  and  put  it  in  a  sauce-pan;  add  to 
it  six  ounces  loaf  sugar  (to  the  quart),  the  shells  and  well-beaten  whites 
of  five  eggs,  stirring  all  together  cold;  set  all  on  the  fire,  and  do  not 
stir  it  after  it  commences  to  warm;  ten  minutes  after  it  rises  to  a  head, 
and  kept  boiling,  throw  in  a  cup  cold  water,  let  it  boil  five  minutes 
longer  and  take  it  off  the  fire;  closely  cover  the  sauce-pan  and  let  it 
stand  half  an  hour  near  the  fire;  wring  the  jelly-bag  out  in  hot  water 
quite  dry,  hang  it  on  the  back  of  a  chair  near  the  fire,  place  a  bowl 
underneath  to  catch  the  jelly,  and  pour  it  into  the  bag;  should  it  not 
be  clear  the  first  time  run  it  through  again.  This  stock  is  the  base  for 
all  good  meat  jellies,  and  by  the  addition  of  wine,  liquors  and  coloring, 
or  by  moulding  with  fresh  or  preserved  fruits,  a  great  variety  of  jellies 
may  be  produced.  Larger  quantities  produced  by  using  larger  propor- 
tions. Two  calves'  feet  should  make  a  quart  of  stock.  To  insure  its 
jellying  sufficiently  hard,  a  half  ounce  of  isinglass  or  gelatine  can  be 
added. 

528.  Fruit  Jellies — To  extract  the  juice  place  the  fruit  in  a 
kettle  with  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  stir  often  and  let 
it  remain  on  the  fire  until  sufficiently  scalded;  or,  perhaps  a  better  but 
slower  method  is  to  place  it  in  a  stone  jar,  set  in  a  kettle  of  warm  water 
and  boil  until  the  fruit  is  well  moistened,  stirring  often  and  then  strain 
through  the  jelly-bag,  emptying  and  thoroughly  rinsing  it  each  time  it 
is  used.  Two  or  three  pints  of  jelly  is  all  that  should  be  made  at  once, 
as  larger  quantities  require  much  longer  boiling.  The  rule  is  to  use 
equal  quantities  of  juice  and  sugar.  Boil  the  juice  rapidly  ten  minutes 
from  the  first  moment  of  boiling,  add  the  sugar  and  boil  ten  minutes 
longer.  The  larger  fruits,  as  apples  and  quinces,  should  be  cut  in 
pieces,  the  cores  and  all  defects  removed;  water  added  to  just  cover 
and  boiled  gently  until  tender.  Jelly  may  be  tested  by  dropping  into 
a  glass  of  cold  water;  if  it  at  once  sinks  to  the  bottom  it  is  done. 

PRESERVES. 

Note — Preserves  are  any  kind  of  fruit  or  vegetables  which  it  is 
desirable  or  may  be  kept  by  means  of  drying  or  in  a  syrup,  formed 
wholly  or  in  part  with  sugar,  according  to  the  nature  of  the  material  to 


127 

be  preserved.  Keep  all  fruits  to  be  preserved  in  an  ice-house  or  refriger- 
ator until  required,  and  they  will  remain  plump  and  fresh  several  days. 
Fruit  gathered  in  wet  or  foggy  weather  will  be  nearly  worthless  for 
preserving.  Preserves  should  be  only  gently  boiled  to  avoid  danger  of 
burning.  For  clear  or  transparent  syrups,  refined  sugar  should  be  used, 
although  the  darker  shades  may  be  clarified.  The  longer  it  is  boiled 
the  thicker  will  be  its  consistency.  A  solution  of  two  parts  of  sugar  to 
one  of  water,  and  boiling  but  little,  will  afford  a  syrup  of  the  right 
strength  to  neither  ferment  or  crystallize;  another  in  the  proportion 
of  half  a  pint  of  water  to  a  pound  of  sugar  is  also  used  for  most  fruits. 

Formerly  it  was  considered  that  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  was 
required  to  preserve  fruit;  but,  since  the  introduction  of  hermetically 
sealed  jars  or  cans,  a  half  to  three-quarters  of  a  pound  is  deemed  suffi- 
cient when  so  put  up. 

Fruits,  except  as  mentioned,  require  to  be  prepared  by  boiling 
until  sufficiently  tender  for  the  syrup  to  penetrate.  Some  fruits,  as 
apples,  peaches,  tomatoes,  plums,  strawberries,  that  are  likely  to  become 
too  soft  by  previous  boiling,  may  have  the  sugar  strewn  over  them  and 
allowed  to  stand  a  few  hours,  when  they  are  scalded  and  canned  or  put  in 
jars.  Another  method  to  also  retain  the  original  hardness  of  the  fruit, 
is  to  take  it  out  of  the  syrup  after  boiling  a  few  minutes  and  place  it 
in  the  sun  for  two  or  three  hours,  and  then  pour  over  it  the  boiling 
syrup.  Other  fruits,  as  pears,  citrons  or  quinces,  harden  when  put  into  a 
thick  syrup  equal  to  their  weight  in  sugar,  to  obviate  which  they  may 
be  cooked  until  tender  in  a  weaker  syrup,  made  with  only  a  portion  of 
the  sugar  and  the  remainder  afterwards  added.  Jams  and  marmalades 
are  of  the  same  nature  as  preserves,  differing  but  little  from  each  other, 
being  preserves  of  a  half  liquid  consistency  made  by  boiling  the  pulp 
of  the  fruit  with  sugar.  Jams  are  made  from  the  more  juicy  berries 
and  currants,  as  blackberries,  raspberries  and  mulberries.  Marmalades 
are  compounded  with  the  firmer  fruits  —  pineapples,  peaches,  quinces 
and  the  rinds  of  oranges. 

Preserves  may  be  packed  for  keeping  in  tin,  glass  or  earthenware, 
cans,  bottles  or  jars.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  fill  a  small  can  or  jar  for 
present  use,  to  prevent  opening  the  larger  ones  too  frequently. 

529.  Clarified  Syrup — A  clarified  syrup  is  produced  by  dis- 
solving two  pounds  of  refined  sugar,  not  necessarily  white,  unless 
desired  for  white  fruits,  in  a  pint  of  water;  add  to  it  the  white  of  an 
tggy  and  beat  it  well;  put  it  in  a  preserving-pan  on  the  fire,  and  stir 
with  a  wooden  spoon.  As  soon  as  it  begins  to  swell  and  boil  up  throw 
in  a  little  cold  water  or  sweet  oil  to  dampen;  let  it  boil  up  again,  take 
it  off,  and  remove  all  scum;  boil  again;  throw  in  more  cold  water; 
remove  scum,  and  repeat  if  necessary.  It  maybe  considered  sufficiently 
boiled  when  it  pours  off  the  spoon  like  oil. 

530.  Dried  Preserves — Any  of  the  fruits  that  have  been 
preserved  in  syrup  may  be  converted  into  dry  preserves,  by  first  drain- 
ing them  from  the  syrup  and  then  drying  them  slowly  on  the  stove, 
strewing  them  thickly  with  powdered  sugar.  They  should  be  turned 
every  few  hours,  sifting  over  them  more  sugar. 


THE 


680  W.  Lake  Street, 


Three  Doors  West  of  Wood, 


Is  the  Place  for  the  Best  Quality  of 


* 


MEATS 


Etc.,  at  Reasonable  Prices. 


•<► 


C.  MACKNESS,  Proprietor. 


CHOICE 

BUTTERS  EG  jjS 

A  SPECIALTY. 


345,  347  &  349  State  St.;  Branch,  433  State  St., 

WHOLESALE   AND    RETAIL 

Bakers*  Confectioners 

Ornamented  Cakes  and  Pyramids  for  Parties  and 
Weddings  supplied  at  the  shortest  notice. 


TEA,  COFFEE,  CHOCOLATE,  ETC. 

Tea — Note — The  botanical  name  of.  the  shrub  or  tree  is  Camillia 
TJiea.  Neither  its  origin  nor  the  date  of  its  first  cultivation  in  China  is 
now  known.  The  teas  of  China  are  classed  as  black  and  green — dis- 
tinctions not  of  different  species  of  the  plant,  but  to  the  age  of  the  leaf,  when 
gathered,  and  method  of  preservation.  Each  has  several  sub-varieties, 
named  from  the  district  from  which  produced,  or  some  peculiarity  in 
the  article  itself.  The  quality  of  tea  depends  greatly  upon  the  age  of 
the  leaf  at  the  time  of  picking,  the  younger  the  leaves  the  more  delicate 
the  flavor.  Of  black  teas  are  Bohea,  Congou,  Souchong,  Caper,  Oolong, 
Pekoe  and  others,  the  highest  quality  of  which  is  Pekoe,  and  the 
coarsest,  Bohea.  When  the  leaves  are  so  very  young  as  to  be  covered 
with  a  down,  it  constitutes  the  Flowery  Pekoe.  The  green  teas  com- 
prise Twankay,  Young  Hyson,  Old  Hyson,  Hyson  Skin,  Imperial  and 
Gunpowder,  the  latter  being  the  first  gathering  and  the  finest.  Impe- 
rial, Young  and  Old  Hyson  are  grades  from  second  and  third  pickings, 
while  the  inferior  light  leaves  winnowed  from  the  Hysons  form  the 
Hyson  Skin.  Of  the  teas  of  Japan,  they  are  classed  according  to  manner 
of  curing,  as  basket-fired,  pan-fired  and  sun-dried;  are  grown  in  two 
crops,  the  spring  and  fall,  the  latter  being  the  best.  Originally,  Japanese 
teas  were  uncolored,  but  now  they  have  quite  as  much  coloring  added  as 
those  of  China,  while  they  lack  the  body  of  the  latter. 

Teas  are  subject  to  various  adulterations,  both  in  China  and  the 
countries  where  sold,  including  the  mixing  of  different  qualities,  color- 
ing, and  other  treatment,  to  improve  the  appearance  of  different  kinds. 

The  most  important  constituent  of  tea  is  theine,  identical  with  caffe- 
ine, the  active  principal  of  coffee.  Genuine  teas  have  also  20  to  40  per 
cent,  of  tannic  acid,  which  gives  the  tea  its  astringency,  but  the  aroma 
and  a  large  share  of  the  flavor  is  dependent  upon  the  amount  of  aro- 
matic oil  and  theine  to  be  extracted.  When  tea  is  infused  too  long  the 
tannic  acid  is  developed,  and  is  denoted  by  marked  astringency.  In 
England  and  America  sugar  and  milk  or  cream,  one  or  both,  are  gen- 
erally added,  but  by  many  it  is  thought  to  detract  from  the  flavor  of 
fine  teas,  rather  than  to  be  a  desirable  addition. 

531.  Tea  Dust,  now  generally  kept  on  sale  by  grocers  and  tea 
dealers,  is  the  siftings  of  finer  grades  of  tea  carefully  saved  and  imported. 
While  afforded  at  a  much  less  price  than  regular  tea,  it  is  much  stronger 
and  usually  superior  to  cheap  grades  of  tea.  The  chief  objection  to  its 
use  is  its  pulverized  condition.  This  may  be  obviated,  however,  by  the 
use  of  a  wire  tea-ball,  or  a  bag  suspended  in  the  pot  similar  to  that  sug- 
gested for  coffee;  or  it  may  be  poured  through  a  fine  strainer  to  the  cups. 
Much  less  is  required  for  the  production  of  good  tea  than  the  regular  leaf. 

532*  Tea  Making — Is  not  a  difficult  process,  a  few  simple  direc- 
tions being  observed.  The  hotter  tea  is  served  the  better,  and  is  worthless 
and  insipid  when  but  warm.  A  teaspoon  of  the  leaf  to  each  person 
and  one  over  is  the  rule  in  using  teas  of  ordinary  quality,  and  it  may 
here  be  observed  that  the  better  grades,  and  consequent  higher  priced 


130 

teas,  possessing  the  greater  amount  of  the  constituents  of  good  tea,  are 
really  trie  most  economical  to  use.  The  pot  or  urn  should  be  well 
warmed  with  hot  water,  letting  it  stand  two  or  three  minutes,  and  then 
either  used  to  also  warm  the  cups  or  discharged.  Put  in  the  tea,  and 
add  a  half  to  three-quarters  pint  of  boiling  water;  let  it  stand  to  draw, 
but  not  boil,  from  five  to  ten  minutes  (some  consider  a  medium  of 
seven  minutes  about  right),  and  then  fill  up  with  boiling  water.  When 
there  is  a  large  party  to  provide  for,  it  is  better  to  have  two  tea-pots, 
instead  of  having  a  large  quantity  in  one.  The  infusion  being  once 
completed,  the  addition  of  fresh  tea  will  add  very  little  to  its  strength, 
so  it  is  much  better  to  commence  anew  when  more  is  required.  The 
character  of  the  water  also  influences  the  quality  of  the  tea,  it  being 
impossible  to  make  really  good  tea  with  hard  water.  Excess  of  lime 
in  the  water  may  be  corrected  by  the  use  of  a  little  carbonate  of  soda, 
and  some  think  it  assists  in  extracting  the  better  qualities  of  the  tea. 
For  mixed  teas,  the  proportion  used  is  generally  four  teaspoons  of 
black  to  one  of  green  ;  more  of  the  latter  when  that  flavor  is  desired 
to  predominate.  The  remarks  concerning  the  coffee-pot  or  urn  will 
equally  apply  to  the  tea-pot. 

533.  Iced  Teas — Are  now  served  to  considerable  extent  during 
the  summer  months.  They  are  of  course  used  without  milk,  and  the 
addition  of  sugar  serves  only  to  destroy  the  finer  tea  flavor.  It  may 
be  prepared  some  hours  in  advance,  and  should  be  made  stronger  than 
when  served  hot.  It  is  bottled  and  placed  in  the  ice-chest  till  required. 
Use  the  black  or  green  teas,  or  both,  mixed,  as  fancied. 

534*  Coffee — Note — The  cultivation  of  this  esteemed  berry  is 
widely  diffused  throughout  the  tropical  belt  nearly  around  the  world.  Its 
name  is  said  to  be  derived  from  Kaffa,  a  district  lying  south  of  Abyssinia, 
where  it  was  first  cultivated  and  used  as  a  beverage.  In  most  countries 
it  is  picked  by  hand;  but  in  Arabia  it  is  left  to  ripen  until  nearly  ready  to 
fall.  This  may  be  one  reason  for  its  strong  and  superior  flavor.  The 
active  principle  of  coffee  is  caffeine,  and  is  employed  to  some  extent  in 
medicine.  Coffee  possesses  considerable  nourishing  qualities,  and  both 
tea  and  coffee  produce  an  agreeable,  exhilarating  effect,  being  a  stimu- 
lant without  being  an  intoxicant.  When  taken  in  quantities  or  quite 
strong,  it  produces  wakefulness  and  is  not  beneficial  to  the  system. 
The  popular  taste;  like  that  for  tea,  is  very  extended,  those  of  strong 
flavor  being  most  in  demand. 

Of  the  different  coffees  imported  here,  Java  and  Mocha  rank  the 
highest  with  connoisseurs,  and  are  generally  used  mixed  in  the  propor- 
tion of  four  to  six  ounces  of  Mocha  to  the  pound.  The  bulk  of  all 
coffee  used  in  this  country  is  Rio,  Santos,  or  those  of  South  or  Central 
American  production.  The  former  possesses  a  strong  but  not  delicate 
flavor,  while  the  latter  are  milder.  The  West  India  islands  produce 
fine  coffees,  which  are  known  under  their  respective  names,  as  San  Sal- 
vador, Costa  Rica,  La  Guara,  etc. 

535*  Ground  Coffee — As  it  is  rather  generally  believed  that  all 
put  up  or  ground  coffees  sold  in  bulk  are  more  or  less  adulterated  with 
peas,  carrots,  chiccory  or  more  harmful  substances,  the  safest  way  is  to 


13* 

either  purchase  the  green  berry  and  brown  it  yourself,  or  freshly  browned 
and  ground  at  the  time  it  is  bought;  a  small  quantity  frequently,  that 
it  may  not  lose  the  flavor  before  consumed.  Some  persons  like  the 
flavor  of  chiccory,  and  it  may  be  purchased  of  itself  and  mixed  with 
good  coffee  in  the  proportion  of  a  teaspoon  to  each  quarter  of  a  pound. 
A  good  substitute  is  also  browned  and  ground  carrot,  using  two  tea- 
spoons to  same  quantity  of  coffee  as  above. 

To  test  the  genuineness  of  ground  coffee,  take  a  pinch  between  the 
wetted  finger  and  thumb,  roll  it,  and  if  pure  it  will  remain  in  grains;  if 
adulterated  it  will  form  into  a  ball. 

When  freshly  browned  coffee  may  not  be  obtained,  the  following 
French  method  is  probably  the  best  for  roasting,  as  it  is  said  to  develop 
the  strength  and  flavor  more  thoroughly. 

536.  To  Roast  Coffee — Pick  over,  wash,  and  dry  enough  for  a 
week  only,  and  to  each  three  pounds  add  a  lump  of  good  butter,  the  size 
of  a  large  hickory  nut,  when  the  coffee  is  hot;  roast  in  a  revolving 
roaster,  which,  if  constantly  turned,  will  roast  more  evenly  than  by  stir- 
ring in  a  dripping-pan.  If  no  regular  roaster  is  convenient,  brown  it  in 
the  oven,  or  on  the  top  of  the  stove  or  range,  watching  and  stirring  con- 
tinually, that  it  may  not  burn;  a  single  berry  when  burned  will  taint  the 
whole  mass,  and  the  flavor,  which  is  very  volatile,  pervade  the  whole 
house.  It  should  be  roasted  evenly  a  dark  rich  brown,  and  should  be 
tested  frequently,  by  placing  a  kernel  on  the  table,  pressing  it  with  the 
thumb,  and  if  tender  and  brittle,  so  it  crushes  easily,  it  is  done.  When 
roasted  properly  it  will  grind  into  particles,  distinct  and  granulated. 
Coffee  swells  about  one-third  in  bulk,  and  loses  about  sixteen  per  cent, 
in  roasting.  When  roasted,  keep  in  an  air-tight  tin  can  or  box,  and 
grind  only  medium  fine  the  quantity  needed,  immediately  before  using. 

537.  To  Make  Coffee — To  extract  and  retain  the  greatest  amount 
of  aroma  is  the  great  object  to  be  attained  in  coffee  making,  and  to  effect 
this  in  the  most  effectual  manner  opinions  differ.  Many  consider  that 
percolation,  filtering,  or  leeching  is  the  best  process,  and  to  this  end 
there  are  many  contrivances,  both  in  this  country  and  in  England  and 
France,  among  which  may  be  mentioned  the  French  biggin,  the  English 
syphon  iron,  the  National  or  old  Dominion  coffee-pot,  the  coffee  and 
tea- press,  and  many  others,  all  of  which  filter  or  leech  hot  water  through 
ground  coffee,  and  most  of  them  produce  a  clear,  rich  fluid,  probably 
as  near  perfect  as  possible.  The  theory  is  that  by  boiling,  the  finest 
and  greater  part  of  the  aroma  escapes  in  the  vapor. 

To  the  filtering  process  many  object  on  economical  grounds, 
urging  that  not  more  than  half  the  virtue  of  the  coffee  is  extracted, 
and  hence  it  takes  very  much  more  than  by  slightly  boiling.  The  fol- 
lowing method  partakes  of  both,  and  also  obviates  the  purchase  of  an 
expensive  utensil.  H 

Take  an  ordinary  coffee-pot,  the  spout  having  a  tight-fitting  cover; 
form  a  ring  of  thick  wire  that  will  fit  just  outside  the  top  of  the  pot, 
leaving  a  space  for  the  hinge,  if  any  ;  to  this  attach  a  thin  but  stout 
muslin  bag,  wider  at  the  bottom  than  top,  and  reaching  to  within  two 
inches  of  the  bottom;  the  seams  should  be  lapped  and  doubly-stitched, 


132 

that  none  of  the  ground  coffee  may  escape  into  the  pot ;  warm  the  pot 
thoroughly  with  boiling  water  and  empty;  place  the  bag  containing  the 
quantity  of  ground  coffee  required,  and  pour  over  it  gradually  boiling 
water;  when  it  has  filtered  through  it  may  then  be  served,  or  brought 
to  a  boil  first,  as  desired ;  remove  the  bag  before  sending  to  table,  using  the 
same  pot.  The  quantity  of  coffee  to  use  depends  much  on  the  kind  or 
quality,  but  a  heaping  table-spoon,  or  half  an  ounce,  is  usually  sufficient 
for  each  person,  with  one  over  if  there  are  several. 

Coffees  that  are  not  made  in  either  of  the  above  methods,  but  the 
coffee  put  directly  into  the  pot,  boil  rather  fast  for  three  to  five  minutes, 
and  then  set  back  on  the  stove  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  longer.  Coffee 
may  be  cleared  or  settled  by  the  addition  of  part  of  the  white  of  an  eggy 
egg-shells,  or  cod-fish  skin,  mixed  with  or  put  in  at  same  time  as  the 
coffee;  or  a  dash  of  cold  water  and  letting  it  stand  a  minute  after,  will 
also  clear  it.  Good  cream,  instead  of  milk,  will  make  even  an  inferior 
coffee  quite  drinkable.  Milk  should  always  be  served  hot,  and  an  egg 
beaten  in  it  just  before  serving  will  add  greatly  to  its  richness.  It  should 
be  previously  mixed  wTith  a  few  spoons  cold  milk.  Coffee  without  either 
milk  or  cream  is  said  to  be  the  most  wholesome,  especially  for  persons 
of  weak  digestion.  Both  coffee  and  tea  pots  or  urns  should  be  kept 
excessively  clean,  and  once  a  week  boil  a  little  borax  in  them,  with 
enough  water  to  cover  the  whole  inside.  Never  wash  them  inside.  It 
is  quite  sufficient  to  rinse  them  in  two  or  three  waters,  and  as  soon 
after  being  used  as  possible  it  should  be  done. 

538.  Cafe  Noir  or  Black  Coffee — Is  an  after-dinner  beverage, 
generally  believed  to  promote  digestion;  it  is  made  very  strong,using  nearly 
double  the  usual  quantity  of  coffee,  and  is  served  in  tiny  cups  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes  after  dinner.  Gentlemen  frequently  add  a  small  quan- 
tiy  of  brandy  or  wine.  It  may  be  made  by  either  of  the  above  pro- 
cesses, but  filtering  is  doubtless  the  best,  as  it  more  readily  produces  a 
very  clear  liquid. 

539.  Chocolate  and  Cocoa — Are  similar  preparations  from 
the  beans,  seeds  or  nibs  of  the  cacoa,  a  species  of  the  palm  differing 
from  the  cocoa-nut  tree,  and  producing  large  seed-bearing  pods;  these 
are  roasted  similar  to  coffee,  and  formed  into  a  paste  with  (or  without) 
sugar  and  some  other  ingredients,  and  sometimes  flavored  with  a  small 
portion  of  the  vanilla  bean.  The  plain,  sweetened,  or  flavored  may  be 
procured  in  cakes  or  pulverized.  Some  of  those  now  manufactured  in 
this  country  are  said  to  be  equal,  if  not  superior,  to  the  French  choco- 
late, long  considered  unrivalled.  The  shells  or  husks  winnowed  from 
the  beans,  called  cocoa-shells,  make  a  weaker  beverage,  sold  principally 
for  invalids  or  persons  of  poor  digestion.  Chocolate,  when  well  made, 
forms  a  nutritive  and  salutary  beverage. 

540.  Broma — Is  a  similar  preparation  from  the  cocoa-nut,  and 
sold  in  packages  ready  ground.  Its  use  is  confined  chiefly  to  invalids 
and  children,  to  whom  the  oil  in  chocolate  or  cocoa  is  either  not  bene- 
ficial or  distasteful. 

Proper  directions  for  use  usually  accompany  either  of  the  above 
preparations. 


THE   CENTENNIAL   AMERICAN 


\J± 


DEALERS    IN    FINE 


Teas,  Coffees,  Sugars  #  Spices, 

678  W.  LAKE  STREET. 

Principal  Warehouse  and  Goffee  Roasting  Establishment:  49  Yesey  St.,  New  York. 

*ALLARl> 

81  Madison  Street,  Chicago. 

ALLARD   IS 


At  the  above  number  and  a  resident  of  Chicago,  pursuing  the  same  business 
for  many  years.  He  is  the  proprietor  of  the  celebrated  hat  known  as  the 
"DRALLARD,"  and  which  has  extended  reputation  for  style,  material  and 
best  workmanship. 

ALLARD  is  not  a  Cheap  John.  He  sells  the  best  of  goods,  and  if  his  hats 
fail  to  give  satisfaction  from  fault  of  material  or  manufacture,  he  replaces  them 
free  of  charge.    ■ 


Caters  to  the  trade  which  demands  first-class 
goods.     If  that  is  your  style,  he  respectfully 


solicits  your  patronage,  and  will  show  you  a 
fine  line  of 

Hats,  Caps  f  Furs 

IN   THEIR  SEASON. 


THE    LIGHT-RUNNING 


is  for  Sale  by  Dealers  everywhere. 

ASK  YOUR  FRIENDS  THAT  ALREADY  HAVE 
ONE,   WHAT  THEY  THINK  OF   IT. 


In  use  in  over  560,000  Families!  ,-wj&- -=:  -».=- 

It  has  the  most  handsome  appearance  and  the  most  perfect  attachments* 
Every  Machine  warranted  for  5  years. 

NEW  HOME  SEWING  MACHINE  CO., 

248  State  Street,  Chicago. 


Introduction- 

BREAD. 


Page. 
5-6 


11  Boston  Brown 11 

12  Boston  Brown 11 

95  Brown,  Palmer  House  ...  22 

13  Corn,  St.  Charles  Hotel.  11 

14  Corn 11 

15  Corn 11 

16  Corn,  Steamed 11 

17  Corn,  Boston 11 

8  To  Cool 10 

18  Graham 11 

19  Graham  and  Indian 12 

9  Hop  Yeast,  Bread 10 

20  Rye ,  12 

21  Bye... 12 

19  Ryeandlndian 12 

22  Salt  Raised 12 

23  Sponge,  for  Winter 12 

10  Twice  Raised 10 

7  Yeast  Cake 10 

6       Hop  10 

3  Potato,  from  Stock 9 

4  Potato,  with  Hops 9 

5  Potato,  without  Hops.    9 

1  Stock 9 

2  Stock 9 

Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes. 

Note— Baking  Powder,  etc..  13 

35  Biscuit 14 

36  Biscuit 14 

9       Hop  Yeast. 10 

39  Soda 14 

40  South  Carolina 15 

37  Hard,  Sugar H 

38  Soft,  Sugar 14 

49  Buns 16 

60  Buns 16 

51  Buns,  London  Hot  Cross  16 
34  Cake,  Cinnamon 14 

61  Crackers,  Egg 18 

60  Crackers,  French 18 

48  Cracknells 16 

69  Corn  Dodgers 17 

47  Crumpets,  English 16 

24  Gems,  Graham 13 

25  Graham 13 

28  Indian 13 

27        Sweet  Milk 13 

26  Wheaten 13 

55  Johnny  Cake 17 

66  Johnny  Cake 17 

58       Alabama 17 

67  New  England 16 

31  Muffins,  Corn 13 

30       Graham 13 

29  Wheat 13 

33  Popovers  14 

32  Puffet 14 

43  Rolls,  Coffee 15 

44  Egg 15 

45  Long  Breakfast 15 

41  Parker  House 15 

42  Vienna 15 

62  Rusk 17 

53  Rusk 17 

54  Lebanon 17 

46  Sally  Lunn 16 

62  Toast,  Economical 18 

63  Excellent 18 

Griddle  or  Batter  Cakes. 

82  Batter  21 

79  Bread.. 20 

77  Buckwheat 20 

78  Same,  without  Yeast 20 

81  Corn 20 

83  Flannel <?t 

84  Graham 21 

80  Huckleberry 20 


INDEX. 


No.  Page, 

85  Rice 21 

88  Pancakes,  French 21 

86  Hotel  Wellington 21 

87  Indian 21 

Batter  and  Fried  Cakes. 

89  Doughnuts 22 

90  Fritters,  Thomaston 22 

90  A  Sauce  for 22 

92  Apple 22 

93  Apple 22 

94  Cream 22 

91  Queen 22 

71  Waffles 19 

70       Baking  Powder 19 

72  Another 19 

76       Massasoit  House 20 

74  Raised 20 

75  Rice 20 

73  Quick 20 

Farinaceous  Dishes. 

68  Cracked  Wheat 19 

69  Grits  or  Hominy 19 

64  Mush,  Cornmeal 18 

65  Graham 18 

66  Oatmeal 18 

67  Oatmeal,  Steamed 19 

BEEF. 
Note,    to    select,     general 
directions  to  cook,  etc  .....  25 
99  Beef,  a  la  Mode 26 

129  Cakes 31 

104  Corned 27 

103  Boiled 26 

105  Pressed 27 

114  Hash 29 

127  Cortland 30 

113        Croquettes  of 28 

107  En  Ragout 27 

109  Fricassee     of    Cold 

Roast 28 

111  Pie 28 

112  And  Potatoe  Pie 28 

124  Potted 30 

98        Ragout  of 26 

96  Roast 25 

108  Tomato  Sauce....  28 

130  Round  of 31 

202        1       A  Stuffing  for 49 

97  With  Pudding 25 

110  Stewed 28 

126       Stewed,  Chipped 30 

106  Spiced  Beef  Relish 27 

100  Beefsteak,  Broiled 26 

101  Fried 26 

102  And  Onions 26 

125  Staffordshire 30 

128  Filet,  Chateaubriand....  31 

131  Hamburger  Steak 31 

132  Hamburg  Steak 31 

115  Beef-tongue  Hash 29 

116  Boiled 29 

117  Spiced 29 

118  Calves  Liver,  Broiled...  29 

119  Calves  or  Beef    Liver, 

Fried 29 

123  Chipolata 30 

120  Tripe,  Fried 30 

121  Fried  in  Batter 30 

122  Fricasseed 30 

MUTTON  AND  1AIB. 

Note,  to  select,  to  keep,  to 

cook 33 

Mutton. 

133  Boiled,  Caper  Sauce 33 

134  Leg  a  la  Venison 33 

135  Chops,  Broiled 33 

136  Fried 34 

137  Fried 34 


No.  Pace. 

138  Harricot  of 34 

139  And  Rice 34 

140  And  Tomato  Sauce...  34 
.  141  Pie  with  Tomatoes 34 

143  Scrambled  Mutton 34 

142  Shepherd's  Pie 34 

144  Mutton  and  Potato  Pie..  34 
Lamb. 

Note 

150  A  la  Matelot 

147  Broiled  Breast  of.  . 

148  Chops,  Broiled 

149  Scallop 

146  Stewed  with  Peas.. 

145  With  Mint  Sauce.... 


34 
,  35 
35 
35 
35 
35 
35 

37 
38 
38 
38 
38 
38 
38 
37 
37 
37 


PORK, 

Note 

155  Pork  Chops 

157  Pork,  Fried,  Salt 

158  Fried,  Salt 

159  Grilled,  Salt 

160  And  Beans,  Yankee.. 
154       Steaks,  Fried 

151  Stuffed  and  Roasted. 

152  Roast  Spare-rib 

153  Roast  Sucking  Pig... 

156  Tenderloin. 3g 

Ham. 

Note 39 

161  Ham,  Boiled 39 

162  Broiled.. 39 

163  Broiled 39 

164  And  Eggs,  Fried 39 

VEAL. 

Note,  to  select,  etc & 

174  Veal,   Cold,  with   To- 
matoes   42 

168  Cutlets,  fried 42 

166  Gravy  for  Roast 41 

175  Patties 43 

167  Pie 41 

171  Pot-pie 42 

170       Ragout  of 42 

165  Roast  Loin  of 41 

169  Stew  42 

173       Toast 42 

172  With  Oysters 42 

176  Sweetbreads,  to  select 
and  prepare 43 

177  Broiled 43 

178  Fried ,  43 

179  Fricasseed 43 

180  With  Green  Peas 43 

POULTRY  AND  GAMK. 

POULrTftY. 

181  Chicken,  Baked 45 

182  Baked,  with  parsnips  45 

183  Boiled 45 

184  Broiled 45 

185  Fried,  Spring 45 

186  Fricasseed 46 

187  Fricasseed 46 

188  Lunch  for  Traveling..  46 

189  Pie 46 

190  Pot-pie 46 

191  Puree  of 46 

192  Salmi  of 47 

193  Oyster  Croquettes 47 

194  Salad 47 

202        A  Stuffing  for 49 

195  Turkey,  Roast,  Oyster 
Stuffing 47 

196  Roast,  English  style.  48 

197  Boned 48 

198  Boiled,  Oyster  Stuf- 
fing   48 

205        Deviled 49 

199  Goose,  Roast 49 


Ho.  Pag«, 

200  Goose,  Deviled 49 

212  Duck,  Roast 61 

202  A  Stuffing  for 49 

203  Boiled 49 

204  Pie 49 

Game. 
Note— Rule  for  Cooking,  etc.  4 
Note— A  Hint  to  Sportsmen  53 
210  Duck,  Wild,  To  Select, 

etc 5( 

212  Roast,  Tame  or  Wild  51 

213  Game  Pie 51 

209  Goose,  Roast  Wild 5( 

214  Prairie      Chicken      or 

Pheasant,  Roasted..  51 

215  Same,  Broiled 51 

226  Pigeons  53 

227  Pot-pie 53 

228  Compote  of 53 

229  Plover,  Broiled 53 

216  Quail,  Roast 52 

184       Broiled 45 

217  On  Toast 52 

224  Rabbit 53 

225  Roasted 53 

218  Reed  Birds,  Roast 52 

219  Au  Pomme  deTerre.  52 

220  Snipe : 52 

223  Squirrel,  to  Prepare  and 

Cook 53 

215       Broiled 51 

221  Woodcock,  to  Broil 52 

221  To  Roast 52 

222  Fried 52 

206  Venison,  to  Choose 50 

206       To  Keep £>0 

206  To  Cook 50 

207  Roast  Saddle 50 

208  Roast  Haunch 50 

FISH. 

Note— Fish,  To  Select,  etc...  55 

230  Fish,  Boiled  or  Steamed, 

General  Directions...  55 

231  Steamed ,  56 

232  Codfish,  Boiled,  Fresh..  56 

233  Boiled,  Fresh 56 

234  Broiled,  Fresh 56 

235  Salt,  a  la  Mode 66 

236  Salt,  Stewed 56 

237  Picked. 56 

238  Minced  Fresh 57 

239  Cod,  AuFromage  57 

240  Codfish  Balls 57 

241  Salmon,  Trout  or  Pick- 

erel, Baked 57 

242  White    Fish   or    Shad, 

Baked 57 

244  Broiled 58 

213  White  Fish,  Boiled 58 

245  Salt,  Broiled 58 

246  Fish,  Fried 58 

250  Stewed 59 

249        Pan 59 

253  Chowder 59 

247  Brook  Trout 58 

255  Haddock,  Crumbed 59 

256  Halibut,  Pickled 60 

251  Mackerel,  Boiled,  Salt.  59 

252  Broiled,  Salt 59 

254  Salmon  Gratin 69 

248  Smelts,  Fried 59 

SHELL  FISH. 

Note— Oysters,  Varieties,  to 

Select,  to  Keep,  etc..  60 
259  Oysters,  Baked  in  Shell  61 

262  Boiled  in  Shell 61 

263  Broiled  in  Shell 61 

264  Broiled,  Count 61 

265  Broiled 61 

282  Broiled 64 

283  Fricasseed 64 


No.  Page. 

291  Oyster  Croquettes 65 

294  Oysters,  Deviled 65 

288  Escalloped 65 

278  Fried 63 

280  Fried 63 

281  Fried 63 

279  Boston  Fry 63 

290  Oyster  Fritters 65 

266  Grilled,  with  Pork. ...  62 

269  Panned 62 

270  Panned 62 

292  Patties 65 

293  Patties 65 

284  Pie 64 

285  Pie 64 

286  Pie 64 

287  Pie 64 

260  Raw,  on  Half  Shell...  61 

261  Raw,  without  Shell..  61 

257  Oysters,  Roast  in  Shell.  60 

258  Fulton  Market  Roast  61 

267  Steamed,  Shell 62 

268  Steamed,  Count 62 

271  Stew 62 

272  Stew 62 

276  Boston  Fancy 63 

275        Dry  Stew 63 

274        Stew,    in    Milk     or 

Cream 63 

277  Stew,  Neptune 63 

273  Stew,  Plain 62 

289  With  Veal 65 

Note— Clams,  varieties,  etc.  65 

295  Clam    Chowder  —  New 

Bedford  recipe 66 

296  Clam  Chowder 66 

299  Fried 66 

300  Fried,  Breaded 66 

302  Fritters -Hotel  Wel- 

lington   67 

303  Fritters 67 

301  '  Pie 67 

297  Stew 66 

298  And  Oyster  Stew 66 

Note— Lobsters 67 

304  Lobsters,  Boiled 67 

306  Croquettes. 08 

307  Deviled 08 

308  Scalloped 68 

305  Steamed 68 

309  Crabs 68 

310  Soft  Shell 68 

31 L        Long  Island  Style 69 

312  Deviled 69 

313  Shrimps 69 

314  Terrapin,    Maryland 

Style 69 

Note— Frogs. 09 

315  Fried 09 

316  Stewed 09 

VEGETABLES, 

Note— General  Directions, 
Selection  and 
Cooking 71 

317  Asparagus 71 

318  To  Cook 72 

319  Another  method 72 

320  Beans 72 

321  Butter  or  Wax 72 

325       Dry 73 

325  To  Boil 73 

325  With  Pork  or  Bacon  73 

323  Green,  String,  etc 72 

322  String 72 

324  Green,  Shelled 72 

326  Boston  Baked 73 

327  Baked 73 

328  Beets,    to    Prepare,   to 

Cook,  to  Pickle 73 

329  Roasted 74 

330  Harvest 74 

331  Stewed 74 

332  Broccoli 74 


No.  page. 

333  Cabbage,  to  Select,  etc..  74 

333  To  Boil 74 

334  Heidelberg 74 

335  South  Carolina 74 

336  Stuffed 75 

337  Carrots,  to  Prepare 75 

338  To  Boil 75 

339  Stewed. 75 

340  Cauliflower,  to    Select, 
Clean,  Boil,  etc 75 

341  Corn,  Green 75 

342  Boiled  75 

343  Stewed 75 

344  Oysters    76 

345  Fritters  or  Moc  k  O  y s- 
ters >i6 

346  Cucumbers,  Raw 76 

347  Boiled  and  Fried 76 

348  Egg  Plant,  Fried 70 

349  Breaded  and  Fried...  70 

350  Greens,  To  Prepare,  to 
Cook 77 

351  Mushrooms,   Varietieg, 
to  Cook 77 

352  Okra 17 

353  Onions,  Varieties 77 

355  Baked 7s 

357  Beefsteak  and 7^ 

354  Boiled 77 

356  Fried 78 

358  Oyster  Plant 78 

359  Parsnips,  boiled 78 

361  Fried 78 

360  Stewed 7s 

362  Peas,  Green 7s 

363  In  Cream 78 

364  Dry  or  Split 79 

Note — Potatoes,  brief  histo- 
ry, to  Select,  to  Keep.  79 

-  To  Cook,  etc 80 

366  AlaFrancaise 80 

365  A  la  Parisienne 80 

375  Balls 82 

372  Fried  raw 81 

373  Fried  boiled 81 

368  Kentucky  style 81 

367  Lyonnaise 81 

374  Mashed 81 

374       Another  Method 81 

371        Ringed 81 

369  Saratoga  Chips 81 

376  Snow 82 

370  Tremont  81 

377  For  each  day  of  the 
week 82 

383  Pumpkin 83 

378  Sweet  Potatoes,  Origin, 
Varieties,  etc 82 

378  To  Cook- 83 

379  To      Cook     various 
ways 83 

380  Baked 83 

381  Salsify 83 

382  Squash,  Summer 83 

383  Winter  or  Pumpkin..  83 

383  Hubbard 83 

384  Tomato,Nativityof,  Cul- 
tivation, to  Select...  83 

385  Fresh,  to  serve  Raw..  84 

386  Baked 84 

387  Stewed 84 

388  Stuffed  and  baked....  84 

389  Turnips 84 

390  Dried 84 

FOGS  A  M>  MACARONI. 

Note  —  Eggs  —  Nutriment, 

Variety,  etc 87 

To  Select 87 

To  Keep. 87 

391  Eggs— Boiled, Time,  etc.  88 
397       Baked 90 

392  Omelets 89 

393  Plain  Omelet 89 

394  Another  Method 89 


No.  Page. 

395  Eggs.  Omelet,  Souffle...   90 

396  Scrambled  90 

398  Macaroni 90 

400  Macaroni 90 

399  A  la  Riccadonna 90 

SOUPS    AM)    BROTHS. 

Note 93 

401  Soup  Stock 93 

401  Seasonings,      Ingre- 

dients, General  Di- 
rections   93-94 

404  Bean,  cheap  and  nu- 

tritious    95 

411  Chicken 96 

412  Chicken,  with  Rice...   96 

407  Economical 95 

402  English  Game. 94 

410  Gumbo 96 

411  Gumbo 96 

403  Mock  Turtle 95 

408  Potato 96 

405  Tomato 95 

406  Tomato 95 

409  Broth— Hulled  Corn......  96 

413  Force    Meat   Balls   for 

Mock  Turtle  Soup...  96 
402  Force    Meat    Balls    for 

Game  Soups 94 

SALADS  AXD  DRESS- 
INGS. 
Note— General  Directions ...  99 
Relishes. 

414  Celery 99 

415  Chiccory 99 

416  Cress  or  Water  Cress....  99 
415  Endive 99 

417  Horse  Radish 99 

413  Lettuce 99 

419  Radishes 100 

420  Parsley 100 

422  Pepper  Grass loo 

421  Sorrel loo 

Salads. 

425  Plain  Cold  Slaw 100 

423  Salad,  Bean 100 

424  Cabbage 100 

426  "  Chicken 100 

427  Chicken 100 

428  Chicken 100 

194       Chicken,        without 

Ceiery 47 

429  Cucumber 100 

430  Lettuce !0i 

431  Lobster 101 

432  Potato  (hot) 101 

433  Potato  (cold) 101 

Dressings. 

435  Cabbage  Salad 101 

434  Cream  for  Cold  Slaw 101 

436  Mayonaise 101 

184  Gravy,  Broiled  Chicken    45 

185  For  Fried  Chicken  ...  45 
181  For  Roast  Chicken....  45 
203       For  Ducks  or  Geese..  49 

196       For  Roast  Turkey 48 

166        For  Roast  Veal 41 

202  Stuffing  for  Beef,  Chick- 
ens or  Ducks 49 

151       ForRoastPork 37 

153       For  Roast  Pig 37 

165       For  Roast  Veal 41 

PUDDINGS    AND 
PASTRY. 

Puddings. 
Note — General     Directions  103 

438  Apple  Roley  Poley 103 

440  BlancMange,  Cornstarch  104 
440        A  Custard  for. 104 

437  Pudding,  Apple 103 

443        Cheap  and  Delicious  104 


No.  Pa-'i 

439  Pudding,  Cabinet 104 

441  English  Plum 104 

442  Rice,  without  Eggs...  104 

444  Rice,  Meringue 104 

445  Plain  Fruit Iu5 

446  Snow 105 

447  Suet 105 

448  Sweet 105 

97  Yorkshire 25 

Pastry. 
Note — General  Directions...  105 

The  Oven 106 

167  Crust  for  Meat  Pies 41 

450  Puff  Paste 106 

452  Pie,  Apple  Custard 107 

454  Cream 107 

455  Date 107 

457  Lemon 107 

456  Another,    with    Me- 

ringue   107 

459  Mock  Mince 107 

460  Pumpkin 107 

460  Squash lo7 

458  Mince  Meat... 107 

451  Patties,  Shells  for  Tarts  106 

453  Tarts,  Apple 107 

453        Meringue  for  same...  107 

CAKE  ANI>  COSFEC- 
TIONEKY. 

Cake. 
General  Directions  and  In- 
gredients  109 

Oven,  to  Keep U0 

461  Cake,  Coidwater  Pound  HO 

463  Delicious HO 

464  French  Chocolate U0 

466  Lemon HO 

468  Marble HO 

471  Spice HI 

472  Sponge Ill 

473  Sponge— More  simple  111 

474  Cream  Frosting  for...  112 

475  Hard  or  Plain  IcingH2 

476  Soft  Icing  for H2 

462  Cookies,  Cocoanut H° 

465  Jumbles HO 

467  Lemon  Snaps HO 

469  Molasses  Gingerbread.. .111 

470  Neapolitans Ill 

Confectionery. 
Note 112 

480  Butter  Scotch 113 

478  Candies,  Various .112 

485  Candy,  Hoarhound 113 

481  Ice  Cream 113 

486  Molasses 113 

479  Rock 113 

487  Caramel,  or  Burnt  Sugai  113 

482  Chocolate  Caramels 113 

477  Clarifying  Syrup 112 

483  Cocoanut  Drops 113 

484  Hickory-nut  Macaroons  113 

CUSTARDS,  CREAMS 
Ai\D  ICES. 

Note— Custards,  general  di- 
rections for  produc- 
tion  of    all    kinds.  115 

440  Custard, for  blancmange  1<>4 

488  Ice    Creams,  varieties..  115 
4>»9        Materials 115 

490  The  Cream 115 

491  Neapolitan 116 

492  Philadelphia 116 

493  The  Freezer  for 116 

494  Freezing  of 116 

497        Molding  of 117 

495  Water  Ices 117 

496  General      directions 

for  all  varieties  of...  117 

497  Molding  of 117 

498  Granites  or  Frappes 117 


No.  Page. 

499  Ice,    Orange,     Lemon, 

Strawberry,  etc 117 

500  Pine-apple 117 

SAUCES,  CATSUPS  AHf  D 
PICKLES. 

Sauces. 

Note— Sauces— General  Re- 
marks upon 119 

507  Drawn  Butter 120 

501  Sauce,  Anchovy 119 

502  Apple 119 

503  Caper  or  Nasturtion  119 
604        Chili 119 

505  Chili 120 

506  Cranberry 120 

241  Egg,  for  Fish 57 

242  Fish 57 

90  For  Fritters 22 

508  Green  Tomato 120 

147  For  Breast  of  Lamb..  35 

509  Lemon 120 

616  Lemon,  Hard 121 

510  Lobster 120 

511  Mayonnaise 120 

512  Mint 120 

145  Mint 35 

513  Oyster 121 

614  Oysters 121 

516  Orange,  Hard 121 

617  Sweet,  for  Puddings.  121 
518  Sour,  for  Puddings...  121 
515        White 121 

Catsups. 
Note— To  Make,  to  Keep 121 

520  Catsup,  Mushroom. ;122 

521  Tomato 122 

PlCEIiES. 

Note  —  General  Directions 

for  Pickling 122 

622  Pickled  Cucumbers 123 

523        Onions 123 

624  Picalilli 123 

625  Pickles,  Sweet 143 

626  Sweet  Pickle  for  Fruit..  123 

JEEEIES    AND    PRE- 
SERVES. 

General     Note     on    Sweet 

Compounds 125 

Note— Jellies,  Fruits,  Jelly  - 

bag,  to  Keep.,  etc 125 

527  Jellies  —  Calves'  Foot, 

Stock  for 126 

528  Fruit 126» 

Note  —  Preserves— Fruits...  126 

Method  to  Keep 127 

Jams  and  Marmalades.  127 

529  Preserves-Clarified  Syr- 

up for 127 

530  Dried 127 

TEA,      COFFEE,      CHO- 
COLATE,   ETC. 

Note— Tea,      General     Be- 

marks 129 

531  Tea  Dust 129 

532  Making 129 

533  Iced 130 

534  Coffee— Note 130 

5  5  Coffee,  ground 130 

636        To  Boast 131 

537        To  Make  by  Filtering 

Process  131 

537        Other  Methods 131 

537  Coffee  or  Tea  Pots,  to 

Cleanse 132 

638'  CafeNoirorBlackCoffeel32 
539  Chocolate  or  Cocoa 132 

539  Cocoa  Shells 132 

540  Broma 132 


•KTHE    ONLY^ 


*gm%WT  b®mw 


SUITABLE   TO 


Remove  Stains  and  Odors  from  the  Hands 


-is- 


This  Soap  contains  Pure  Sweet  Cream  so  saponified  as  to  retain  all 
the  softening  and  healing  properties  of 

It   will    keep   the   skin   soft   and   white,   and   prevent  roughness 
where  other  soaps  fail. 


MANUFACTURERS, 

CHICAGO,     ILL. 


"The  Great  Rock  Island  Route" 

MAINTAINS  THE  LEAD  AS  THE  PEOPLE'S  FAVORITE  BETWEEN 

CHICAGO   AND  PEORIA,  ROCK   ISLAND,    DAVENPORT, 
DES  MOINES,  COUNCIL  BLUFFS,  OMAHA,   LEAV- 
ENWORTH, ATCHISON  AND  KANSAS  CITY. 


l   *      MINNEAPOLIS  Ttrk^ST. PAUL 
Redwood  rz*s&s®5B**&Cw1^^ed  Wing 


&»K 


31  AW 


Falls  ^>s>.^^jjr^^.    -^^ 
Wate rvil I e\t  Albert  Lea 


irwr 


^V  0* ,, 


■$>  <>^ 


r^> 


bPaiv- 


.°^\°??2 


^t-rr 


"SAS  CITY^=^=FS;esefin$i\e>  s-  St.Xooii 


^ 


O 

^  "^JEFFERSON" 
CITY 

CIT VyS^tlE  M^  -  — 


Hc^ally  &  Coj 
CEngr'e,  Chicago.  ] 


ITS  FAMOUS  ADJUNCT 


u 


The  Albert  Lea  Route" 


Which  passes  through  the  most  fertile  and  picturesque  region  in  the  central  West,  is  chosen 
by  all  who  would  enjoy  the  beautiful  and  travel  in  ease  and  comfort,  between 

CHICAGO,  MXBmRABO&I»®>8T.  PAUL 

No  Transfers  made  between  Chicago  and  the  Missouri  River 

or  the  Upper  Mississippi. 

Close  connections  are  made  in  Union  Depots  with  all  of  the  Pacific  Railroads,  and  tickets  are 

sold  to  all  points  in 

KANSAS,    NEBRASKA,    COLORADO,    NEW    MEXICO,   ARIZONA,     CALL 

FORNIA,    OREGON,   WASHINGTON   TERRITORY,    BRITISH 

COLUMBIA,  NEVADA,  UTAH,  IDAHO,  MONTANA, 

WYOMING,    DAKOTA  AND   MANITOBA. 

2  THROUGH  EXPRESS  TRAINS  EACH  WAY  DAILY. 

Parlor  Chair  Can.    Pullman  Palace  Sleeping  Cars.    World  Famous  Dining  Cars. 

R,  R,  CABLE,  Pres't  &  Gen'l  Manager.   E,  ST,  JOHN,  Gen'ITkl&Pass,  Agt. 


•••   THE    ••• 

GROCER 

79  &  81  State  Street,  Chicago,  III. 

TO  HOUSEKEEPERS. 

The  economical,  thrifty  and  close  buyers  will  make  no  mistake  in  perusing 
our  Catalogue  and  Price-Current,  and  more  particularly  notice  brands  and 
prices  as  enumerated.  There  are  no  two  jobbing  houses  in  the  city  that  carry 
as  large  varieties  of  Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries,  Green  and  Dried 
Fruits,  Flour,  Wines,  Liquors,  Cigars,  etc.,  and  make  as  many  cash 
sales  each  day.  All  goods  in  original  packages  are  sold  as  close  as  any  jobber 
offers  the  same  brands. 

Our  trade  extends  over  Western  Pennsylvania,  Ohio,  Indiana,  Illinois,  Wis- 
consin, Michigan,  Minnesota,  Iowa,  Missouri,  Texas,  Kansas,  Nebraska,  the 
Territories,  and  all  Post-Trader  Depots. 

N.B. — A  complete  catalogue  sent  on  application. 


***** 


iTll"5 


«.»'*"'■ 


J 


£ 


pill" 

b°° 


ithog 


rop 


> 


co* 


fpW 


Scenic  Koute 

>•  OF 


4^eca  Valley,  on  ^e 


-*>• 


-€«- 


AMERICA 

A  continual  Panorama  of  Magnificent  Scenery  from  the  Lakes  to  the  Seaboard.    The  Elegant 

Pullman  Service  via  the 

EEIE     BAIL^TiLY" 

And  its  Connections  is  unsurpassed  by  any  Route  to  or  from  the  East. 

IF  ON  A  BUSINESS  TRIP,   TAKE  THE  ERIE, 

IF  ON  A  PLEASURE  TRIP,   TAKE  THE  ERIE, 

UNDER  ALL  CIRCUMSTANCES,  TAKE  THE  ERIE, 

And  you  will  travel  over  a  Railway  unequalled  in  facilities  for  Comfort  and  Safety. 


JNO.  N.  ABBOTT, 

Gen'lPaw.  A^.Mir,  NEW  YOP.K. 


W.  H.  HXJRLBURT, 

GenM  Western  Pass.  Agent,  CHICAGO 


THE 


Chicago  and  Atlantic 

RAILWAY 

IS  NOT  EXCELLED,  IF  EQUALLED, 

BY  ANY  OTHER    ROAD  IN   THE  WORLD. 

SOLID     TRAINS 

Tlie  finest  ever  built,  run  between  New  York  and  Chicago,  and  Chicago  and 

New  York,  daily,  via  the  Erie  Railway,  without  change  for  any  class 

of  passengers.     Also,  new  Pullman  Sleeping  Cars  between 

CHICAGO  AND   BOSTON,  VIA  ALBANY. 


This  is  the  only  line  running  a  "  solid"  train  between  the  above  cities.     By 

the  term  "  solid "  we  mean  the  entire  train — baggage  car,  first  and 

second-class  coaches,  smoking  car  and  sleeping  cars.     The 

trains  are  of  uniform  external  appearance  ;  the  interior 

is  the  perfection  of  railroad  appointment.     Even 

THE  SMOKING  CARS 

Among-  other  novelties,  contain  a  B-TJEFET,  where  the  traveler  may 

LUNCH   AT  HIS  LEISURE. 


The  trains  are  fitted  with  every  appliance  for 

S-^^EOTE-    a,rLd.    COILvCIFOIEBT 

That  the  requirements  of  modern  travel  have  prompted  inventive 
genius  to  provide. 


The  Sleeping-,   Drawing- Room  and  Thoroughfare  Coaches  are  simply  Models  of 
Elegance,  and  are  Lig-hted  with  the  brilliant 

PINTSCH   GASLIGHT. 


In  short,  the  construction,  equipment  and  service  of 

The  Chicago  &  Atlantic 

with  the  advantages  it  enjoys  in  connections  and  time  between  the 

EAST   .A-ILTID    WEST, 

Necessarily  make  it  the  favorite  THROUGH  LINE  to  and  from  the 
Atlantic  Seaboard. 

B.  F.  POPPLE,  S.  W.  SNOW, 

Gen'l  Eastern  Passenger  Agent,  Gen'l  Passenger  Agent, 

336  BROADWAY,  NEW  YORK.  CHICAGO. 


"One-Third  of  Life  is  Spent  in  Bed." 


TO  SECURE  COMFORT,  BUY  THE 


Leader  *  MetalliG  *  Bed  *  Spring 

Patented  April  io,  1883. 

IT  IS  THJ<:  BEST,  because: 

First. — Being  made  entirely  of  Iron  and  Steel,  it  is  INSECT  PROOF. 

Second. — The  upper  wire  of  the  spiral  is  DOUBLE-LOOPED ;  cannot 
spread  under  pressure ;  retains  its  shape,  strength  and  elasticity. 

Third.— The  spirals  are  firmly  riveted  at  the  bottom,  and  at  the  top  are 
held  in  position  by  chains. 

Fourth. — The  two  parts  of  the  cross-bands  are  connected  by  pieces  of 
spring  steel,  so  that  the  Bed  Spring  can  be  FOLDED  DOUBLE. 

Fifth. — A  child  ten  years  of  age  can  handle  it. 

Sixth.— It  is  INDESTRUCTIBLE. 

On  application,  by  mail  or  otherwise,  we  will  send  and  take  measure  of  Bed- 
stead. Sold  on  approval,  subject  to  easy  payments,  or  discount  for  cash. 
SATISFACTION   GUARANTEED. 


WELLS    &G    BIR/O., 

197  Desplaines  Street,  Chicago. 


119 


AT    RETAIL 


^PAPER^ 
HANGINGS 


OF 


Every  Variety. 


John  J.  McGrath, 


106, 108, 110, 112  Wabash  Ave. 


CHICAGO. 


^0< 


•  era:*    „  •»       v      *^ilMr*     dr       >t»     ."g"^v«       •*       «>      «^u 


^   **/o> 


^    **v  »r: 


^l^ 


*°* 


*c 


w 


lV^ 


p*     a*   **     •< 


**"* 


.e-^'4      ■»  *^l  ir.-    «J?    "^    ^Wi*     *v    ^      .^ 


v^v 


^     «£      ^W^°.     **    A*      ' 


*.£*&*' 


