[: 


2 
7 
i 
PESEESEREERSERPERIDI SoBe S PETE RL TE PERCE ROE REELED eae | 


~~ 02 
am 


SS 


~— It’s That Dainty 
Wholesomeness $0 


Relished in 


/ DETER COOPER'S GELATINE 


TCT NET 


LEAT NEN TROT RI 


That Has Made It for 90 Years 


THE WORLD’S. STANDARD 


AS ETRE ETS RAPA APE ETI ETE 
IN - 


PURITY AND EXCELLENCE 


In Cauntless Homes—Fashionable Hotels—in 
Hospitals—wherever the best is demanded— 
the Celebrated Peter Cooper Gelatine is in 
daily use. 

Those Really Delightful Gelatine Dishes are 
impossible without 


PETER COOPER’S GELATINE 


Purest--Best--Makes Most 
CENTS THE PACKAGE 
a NS Ask Your Dealer 
\.. Peter Cooper’s Gelatine 
‘ 111 BROADWAY 


Founded by Peter 
Cooper, 1822 


A COLLECTION OF CHOICE RECIPES BY 
MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER, OF THE 
RITZ-CARLTON HOTELS, THE 
GREATEST FRENCH: CHEF 


@opyright, 1911, American-Joutnal-Examiner. 


eerste nee 


testing in their 

kitchens and on 
their own tables some 
of the favorite recipes 
of the great Monsieur 
Escoftier, of the Ritz- 
Carlton Hotels, is one 
which will prove a last- 


ing joy and benefit 


to the housewives of 
ree teeta MO THE GEA ay WEEN CM re N Y I 
CHEF. WHO GIVES IN ‘HIS BOOK lpnatar. New ¥ ale 
SOME OF HIS FAVORITE RECIPES. areatler: NEW) + OPK 
Wherever epicures gather to discuss toothsome viands 
the name of Escoffier is known and respected as that of 
the greatest. of French chefs. As some one has said, he 1s 
more than a chef—he is a genius who has raised cooking 


to the dignity of an art. 
From the fruits of his long experience in tempting 


2 THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 
pe ere I ee ee 


appetites in all parts of the world, Monsieur Escoffier 
has selected and presents to you in this little book a 
ehoice variety of recipes which he considers particularly 
well suited to American needs. They are published now. 
in book form for the first time in this country. 

The dishes for which recipes are given in this book 
are the same which have won the highest praise from the 
leading gourmets of Europe and America. Included 
among them are the appetizing delicacies prepared by 
Monsieur Escoffier himself for the dinner which the 
Kaiser pronounced ‘‘the best I ever ate.’’ 

This book of Monsieur Escoffier’s comprises a very 
complete elementary course in the fine a@rt%of French 
cooking. Besides the recipes, it contains a fund of useful 
facts for every lover of delicious things to eat. 

Of particular value to any one who has ever 
puzzled over a strange French word is the chapter de- 
voted to an explanation of terms commonly used in a 
French cuisine. 


TABLE OF CONTENTS. 


ce 


; ; PAGH 
IPL OOUEIION Ss vaso sek ore ee tau le mcte a ack oh eal 
Appetizing Ways of Preparing Rabbit..................cecee 3 
How. to Make-Good Rakouts icc os ie ee ee q 
Recipes for Pot au Feu, Macaroni and Spaghetti............. 10 
Some New Ways of Preparing Tomatoes............ ate tua ete 14 
RWW HRD MOIR es ors ys kes oe eee 19 
A Dinner That Was Served Me in Perigord..........-..eeec. 21 
Pe ROM OOM MOM. Sic cok i i ic, ae aria e ear 25 
HOW. TOs NERS COOd SOUDS space Aas inc vis ohkn Eo icc oe 2 

Wrench Cooking: Terms tixplainéds: ive oo ov ehws ances ees 28, 


Dainty Dessert Recipes 


Oe 0: C OTS 4b 6 Fee 0lg |e sole 6oe we he a BO 6lO be BO eee 6 ae 


Ways of 
Preparing 
Rabbit 


HE meat of the rabbit, whether of the wild or farm- 
yard variety, may furnish.many nourishing and 
attractive dishes for the modest household. It is 

especially suited to families where economy is important, 
because it is a low-priced meat. Whatever prejudice éx- 
ists against this meat must be attributed to lack of knowl- 
edge of how to cook it. 

Wild rabbits are abundant in most parts of the coun- 
try, and the farmyard rabbit is very easily bred. The 
farmyard rabbit is a very useful animal to the man 
who tries to raise a little produce as a help to 
his income from some other oceupation. I must warn 
my readers against allowing farmyard rabbits to feed on 
cabbage leaves, of which the animal is quite fond, as 
this gives the meat an unpleasant flavor. The wild rab- 
bit feeds by preference on aromatic herbs, and where 
they are abundant the flesh consequently has an excellent 
flavor. 

The best way of cooking rabbit is undoubtedly to 
saute it. I therefore recommend everyone who values 
the art of keeping house economically to master this 
method. Sauteing gives rabbit meat its greatest palata- 
bility, lending it piquancy where it is insipid and .eyen 
improving the flavor when it is actually unpleasant. 


THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Rabbit Saute With Mushrooms. 
KIN a young rabbit, clean out entrails carefully and cut it in 
pieces. Put the liver aside, heat oil, butter and lard in a frying 
pan or a shallow saucepan; add the rabbit and put on a hot fire. 


Season with salt and pepper, add ‘an onion chopped fine, a piece of 
garlic the size of a small pea, a dozen peeled mushrooms, three 
tomatoes peeled and chopped, with seeds removed, a good sized pinch 
of chopped parsley, a glass of white wine. Cover saucepan and 
finish cooking ata moderate fire. If the rabbit is young fifteen to 
twenty minutes will be sufficient cooking. 


Rabbit Saute With Tomatoes. 


FTER cutting up the rabbit as in the first recipe, warm‘in a 
frying pan some olive oil, butter or lard. Add the pieces of 
rabbit. As soon as they are nearly cooked through and are begin-. 
ning to brown, season them with salt, pepper or a bitwof garlic and 
two or three chopped shallots. Add several fresh sliced mushrooms, 
a glass of white wine, two or three tomatoes skinned, seeded and 
chopped up, and a good sized pinch of chopped parsley and tarragon. 
Cover the saucepan or frying pan‘ and let cook for fifteen or twenty 
minutes. 


Rabbit Soup With Curry. 

AKE a young rabbit, slice up three large onions, put them in a 
saucepan in which you have heated two or three ounces of but- © 

ter. Let the onions cook at slow fire for fifteen minutes, add rabbit 
cut in pieces. Allow it to cook for five or six minutes more. Add 
two large soup-spoonfuls of curry powder, two. quarts boiling water, 
half ounce of salt, a fagot of parsley, a bay leaf and a mite of garlic. 
Allow to boil for thirty to: thirty-five minutes. Take out the pieces 
of rabbit, put them in the soup tureen and pour the cooking liquor 
over them, after having passed it with pressure through a strainer | 


with large holes. Add a few tablespoonfuls of rice cooked in salted 
water. 


Pilaff of Rabbit. 

Hvis cut the rabbit in pieces, put it in a saucepan in which 

you have heated two or three ounces of butter or lard. When 
the meat is slightly browned, season with salt and pepper and adda 
medium sized onion chopped up. Allow it to cook ten minutes, then 
add five or six tablespoonfuls of good rice soup. (Rice used in 
soups is parboiled in water for ten minutes and after water is 
drained off clear consomme is added.) Moisten with about 1% pints 


boiling water and reduce by boiling. Cover pan and finish cooking 
iB Oven, OY On a slow fire twenty minutes. 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 


Rabbit en Blanquette. 
"3 agetenss having cut up the rabbit, heat in saucepan about two 
ounces of butter and add the pieces of rabbit. Cover saucepan 
to allow the meat to harden slightly without taking color. A few 
minutes are sufficient for this preparation. Then add salt and pepper, 
a large onion chopped up, a bundle made up of parsley, a bay leaf, a 
piece of garlic peeled, the whole well tied together. 

Sprinkle the pieces of rabbit with two tablespoonfuls of flour. Stir 
with a wocden spoon so that the flour may not stick to the bottom 
of the saucepan and to,keep it thin. Moisten with about a quart of 
hot water. As soon as the liquid is boiling put the saucepan on a 
slow fire and let it. cook about twenty to thirty minutes. Before 
serving thicken the sauce with two o1 three yolks of eggs, mixed 
with a little milk or cream. The sauce should not be boiling at 
this point. To make this dish go farther you may serve with it 
noodles or macaroni cooked with butter. To this may be added 
grated cheese or simply boiled potatoes. 


Rabbit a la Creme. 


AVING cut the rabbit in pieces, put them in a saucepan in which 
you have heated two or three ounces of butter. As soon as 


the meat is slightly cooked season with salt and pepper. Add a 
medium sized onion chopped fine, and allow to cook gently twenty 
or twenty-five minutes. By this time the cooking should be complete 
if the rabbit is tender and the onion should be a light brown. Then 
add a half pint of fresh cream and allow this to boil for five or six 
minutes.’ Finish the sauce with a piece of a good lemon. Season 
further if that is desired, and serve immediately. You may add to 
this dish raw mushrooms sliced up, which you have sauted a few 
minutes in butter. 


Rabbit a la Boulangere. 
REPARE the rabbit as in roasting. Then place it in a long 
earthenware or tin dish which will go in the oven. Surround the 


rabbit with potatoes and sliced onions. Season with salt and pepper, 
put a little bay leaf among the potatoes and moisten the whole with 
butter cr lard and cook in the oven for thirty or thirty-five minutes. 


Gibelotte of Rabbit a la Menagere. 
| Dae tl in the same way as in rabbit gibelotte; but add, after 
fifteen minutes’ cooking, potatoes cut in quarters. -You may add 
red wine instead of white wine in this recipe. : 


Roast Rabbit. 
FTER having skinned and cleaned the rabbit, tie it up in strips 


of cooking bacon~and roast it in the oven or spit. Moisten 
during the cooking with lard or butter, 


COOK BOOK 


Pa] NY 


Wabhhis Gari 
Rabbit Saute 


asseu ur . 


n 
[2] 
© 
* 
aa 
2 

us) 
n 
> 
oO 

4 
oD 
rs 
wf 
ct 


of all- ways of eee rabbit 


Te HIS i 
& in FE 


in their jack 


omit 


it with two table- 


spoonfuls of French 


and season it with salt and 
r ounces of lean bacon, put it in a 
and a dozen small 


Cut in little squares fou 


; 
with two ounces of,lard or 


ofiions peeled. As soon as 


the onions begin ‘to color add two table- 
spoonfuls of flour . Stir with a wooden spoon and cook the flour 
with the butter two minutes 


mixed with 


Now add ae pieces of rabbit, which’ must 1 
wine and) hot 


and mois stened with equal parts of 
the rabbit is covered with the li Add a fagot 
parsley, thyme, a bay leaf, a mite of Garlic, the whole 
ogether. Cover the saucepan and cook ‘thirty to thirty- 
w mushrooms 


0 


at a slow fire. You may add a few rz 


minut es’ cooking. 


gv UT up thé rabbit in 


“4 saucepan in» which-you. have ee two ounces of butter or 
lard. As soon as the meat. is li; 
pepper.. Add two medium size lions chopped up, allow the whole 
to pie about Behers 3 mi s soupspoonfuls 
; curry _powd in quantity 
to cover e saucepan and 


cooking at a ity-five minutes. 


You may serve yked a la creole. 


bbit the neck, 
part of 


F %OR this dish you 
¥ 5 


the breast 


the legs and cross the eg Salt it ind Loist n with melted 
butter and then broil. hé time of cooking be about twenty 
minutes, After about fift i ; sprinkle with roast 


bread crumbs and 1 


the rabl 


In serving surround 


of every month 
the great 


SUNDAY AMERICAN 


Make Good Ragouts 


gard a ragout, or stew, as a very valu- 


How to 


N France we re 

able, estimable and respectable dish in domestic cook- 

ery. Among English-speaking people I find that a 
stew is somewhat contemptuously regarded. This point of 
view, I feel sure, must have arisen Irom the fact that the 
stew has been too often imperfectly prepared. 

Perhaps you will like your stew better if you eall it a 
‘‘ragout’’ (pronounced ‘‘rah-goo’’). Certainly the change 
is justifiable, since a certain carelessness appears to be 
denoted by the word ‘‘stew’’ which is by no means im- 
plied in the French term “‘ragout.’’ 

A good mutton ragout-is one of the most harmonious, 
wholesome and economical combinations of meat and 
vegetables which our cuisine has any knowledge of. I 
give here directions for preparing the principal mutton 
ragouts. 


Mutton Stew with Rice. Segoe eae 
Va pee the mutton has been cut in pieces and cooked, add four 
good tablespoonfuls of chopped onion, season with salt and 
pepper, let it cook at a slow fire ten to twelve minutes. 
Then add a dozen small carrots, a bunch of parsley, thyme, 


COOK BOOK 


a quart of water, 


this moment pour boiling 
the rice is two or three 


in and let it cook twenty- 


taking three 


3 


two pounc 


some peeled toma- 


also add eggplant 


small mild green or red peppers, after 


five to six minutes with the mutton, 


K 


may fiaice it with saffron or curry. 


la Bourgeoi sé. 

persons. Choose 

frying pan, after 
them brown on 

and sprinkle them 

as to brown them 


uillon, or, if that is 
ss of white wine. Add 
nall onions and the 
: it. then arrange the 
ttatoes a nions on the middl yf thi lish with the cutlets 


and pour the 


in dye Cut the 
as in the precedimg 


1 in four, two carrots 
pspoonais Let this cook several 
a quart of 


desire 


a 


if 
oy Sea 
okim the ras 


the wool. iIn* 


Tn ‘ “MIN te ee. wnatttan nt ld 
in not countries mutton often holds the taste of 


efore cooking. 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER __ 9 


SE 


Mutton Hash a |’Americaine. 
UT the meat into small cubes. Also cut into pieces of the same 
shape the same weight of potatoes as of meat. Season the 
potatoes and toss them in butter. This done, put half their quan- 
tity into a saucepan with the meat and cover the whole with a few 
tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce and some reduced meat gravy; heat 
without allowing to boil. Distribute the remainder of the potatoes, 
which should be crisply fried, over the hash, and sprinkle with a 
pinch of freshly chopped parsley. In hash the .meat ar 
allowed to boil or it will become hard. 


emer? 


Ordinary Ragout of Mutton. 

AVING cut the mutton in pieces cook it in a saucepan at a 
: sharp fire with clarified fat or lard. Season with salt and 
pepper. | 

When the pieces of mutton are well browned drain out nearly 
the fat, Add two. large soupspoonfuls of flour. eck for several 
minutes and moisten with a full quart of water. Add two sl J 
tomatoes or two spoonfuls of tomato puree, a bunch of parsley, 
thyme, a bay leaf and a tiny piece of garlic. 

Cover the saucepan, cook gently forty or fifty minutes. 
change the pieces of mutton to another saucepan Jd ‘to 
fifteen small onions browned in butter and twenty small pot 
the size of a pigeon’s egg. Then skim the sauce from the 
saucepan. Strain it over the meat and other ingredients. Cover 
saucepan and finish cooking. Before serving skim the grease off 1 
stew again. : 


Plain Irish Stew. 
UT up two pounds of mutton, place the pieces in a saucepan of 
convenient size. The best meat for this purpose is from the 
breast, the neck or the shoulder. Cut it in pieces of three to four 
ounces. 

Add 2 large glass of water, then put the saucepan on the fire, 
cdéver it and let the water evaporate completely. Add another glass 
of water, allow it to evaporate and then salt and pepper to : 
Next add four large onions dividedinto quarters, a bunch of parsley 
thyme and bay. 

Moisten with just sufficient water to cover the meat 
Cover the saucepan and let it boil for twenty-five to thirty minut 
Then add to the mutton two pounds of potatoes skinned 
‘divided in four. Cover them with hot water. Season them agz 
you like it highly seasoned. Cover the saucepan and fi 
the Paaet at herbs berets 


« ot 
a 
® 


In this case you mizat also slice up the potato 
the carrots and turnips to cook fifteen minut 
Potatoes cooked to pieces spoil the stew. 

In this methed ne feur thickening sheuld ke ured: 


10 THE 1 


THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Recipes hs 


Pot au Feu, 
Macaroni and 
Spaghetti 


T is the greatest merit of the French cuisine that it 
enables the housekeeper to make the most wholesome 
and delightful dishes with the least expenditure of 

money 

In the first place, I deal with the ‘‘pot au feu,” “‘the 

pot on the fire,’’ a soup which is perhaps the most typical 
and valuable of all French family dishes. ‘When well 
eooked it is equally delicious and nourishing. After that 
I take up some simple macaroni preparations. My friend, 
Madame Tetrazzini, the famous singer, has expressed her 
pleas sure over many dishes of macaroni, prepared accord- 
ing to the accompanying recipes. 


Family ‘‘Pot au Feu.” 


O make family “pot au feu” you must take beef of good quality 

and in sufficient quantity. The favorite parts with us are the 
ribs, the rump and the breast. If the meat is quite fresh all these 
parts furnish an excellent soup, and\the beef is. excellent to eat 
afterward. 


To. make soup for six or seven persons, take four pounds of 


beef, including bone. The piece of beef should be oblong. in shape and 


tied up. Place it an earthenware Saucepan (marmite) or one of 
RRamellie?d metal, In using an sevbhenware Marmit remember that it 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER ee Le 


must be well boiled first, as new earthenware gives an unpleasant 
taste to soup. Add a quart of cold water to every pound of meat 
and a sixth,of an ounce of coarse salt for every quart of water. 
Put ‘the saucepan on the fire. Skim at the first boiling, then add halt 
a glass of fresh water, and skim again. 

As soon as the bubbling grows very strong put the saucepan at 
the side of the fire. ,Cover it threequarters of the way with the lid 
and cook gently for three or four hours. After the first hour of 
boiling add the following vegetables, which must be very carefully 
cleaned: 

Two carrots, two turnips, a piece of celery, two medium sized 
leeks, several sprigs of chervil, a bay leaf, a mite of garlic, a quarter 
of a white cabbage, an onion colored brown)in the oven if con- 
venient and two cloves. The cabbage is optional, When the meat 
is cooked remove the saucepan from the fire. 

At the time of serving remove the meat and keep it hot, then 
remove the vegetables gently so as not to stir up the soup. Select 
a part of the vegetables and put them in the soup tureen with thin 
slices of bread, lightly toasted, and a pinch of freshly ground pepper. 
Arrange the rest of the vegetables around the beef, skim the soup, 
pass it through a fine strainer and pour it into the soup tureen. 


Estouffade of Beef, Neapolitan. 

‘STOUFFADE is an appetizing puree of beef which may be used 

in combination with ,various vegetables. Here it is used in 
combination with macaroni. 

The following quantities are calculated for eight to tén persons: 
Take ,a pound of lean beef, cut in small square pieces; two pounds 
and a quarter of very ripe tomatoes, seeded and chopped up; two 
large onions chopped up, a'bunch composed of a bay leaf, a few 
sprigs of thyme, a mite of garlic, the whole well tied together; half 
a bottle of good white or red wine, with salt and pepper ground in 
a mill. 

Put the lean beef in a saucepan in which you have previously 
heated about three and a half ounces of butter, or four tablespoons- 
fuls of good olive oil} add the salt and pepper, cover the saucepan 
and let it stew. Cook it ten to twelve minutes on a fire not too hot, 
then add the white or red wine, cover until the wine has almost 
completely boiled down. Cover the saucepan again and let it cook 
gently until the beef has been reduced to a puree. It requires at 
ieast five or six hours’ cooking. 


THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Macaroni a la Napolitaine (Neapolitan Macaroni). 

WENTY to twenty-five minutes before serving cook in boiling 
water salted to taste some eeu fan macarori—that is, large 
vary between twelve and 


ceording to the ie of the macaroni. It must 


not be ove a and must be kept rather firm. 


As soon as it is cooked ¢ a strainer with large holes so 


th 


as to run off the water i eciciele ut. the macaroni in the sauce- 


an, add a little butter, sprinkle the bottom of @ flat dish with 
c 


Dp 


n cheese, cover this Parmesan cheese with a iayer of: the 
fade of beef already prepared, arrange on top of this a layer of 
‘oni, on this another layer of Parmesan cheese, and finally a 
yer of estouffade until the dish is filled up. Serve at once. 
Neapolitan Sauce Rapide. 

EMOVE the little tendons from the ends of a filet of beef, cut 
the meat in small squares, saute them at a hot fire in the frying 
pan with very hot butter and season with salt and pepper. Add 
some hot tomato sauce a la menagerie in advance and several spoon- 

fuls of meat glazing, then keep hot without boiling. 

To prepare tomato sauce a la menagerie choose a dozen very ripe 
tomatoes, remove the skin, divide them in two parts, extract the pips, 
then chop them in large pieces, put them in ‘the frying pan in which 
you have previously heated five or six tablespoonfuls of pure olive oil. 
Salt and pepper them in moderation, add a spoonful of chopped 
parsley and a mite of garlic; then cover the frying pan and let it 
cook thirty to forty minutes at a very slow fire:so that the water in 
the tomatoes boils down very slowly. 

Although this sauce is very simple in preparation and therebote 
called “a la menagere’” (the housekeeper), I consider it the best of 
sauce served hot. It may be served not only with macaroni, but 
with eggs, fish, butcher’s meat, chicken, rabbit and certain vege- 
tables, such as string beans cooked in the frying pan. 

Serve this with macaroni as in the preceding recipe. I find that 
an allowance of three and a half, ounces of macaroni to each diner 
“is usually sufficient. Of course, much depends on the composition 
of the menu or the occupation of the diners. The moderate quan- 
tity would not be sufficient for a Neapolitan workman. 


Sauce Rapide.. 
OU may also prepare an excellent “Sauce Rapide” by making a 
mixture composed of three parts of good concentrated tomato 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 13 


puree and one part of good meat glazing. Boil this mixture for 
several minutes. Serve with macaroni as in preceding recipes. 

The concentrated tomato puree may be purchased at many stores. 
It is a favorite preparation in Italy. 


Fisherman’s Macaroni. 
HE following method of preparing macaroni has for generations 
been a favorite with Neapolitan fishermen: Cook the macaroni 
according to the directions in the preceding recipes. At the same 
time cook the nécessary quantity of tomatoes, skinned, seeded and 
chopped up in a fiying pan in which you have heated some olive oil 


and two or three whole cloves of garlic. Season with salt,, pepper, 
parsley and chopped basil (bay leaf may be used instead of this 


herb). Let it cook twelve to fifteen minutes; theh add some “filets 


of anchovies cut in pieces. 
Arrange ‘the macaroni in a dish, powder it heavily with grated 


Parmesan and pour the sauce over the macaroni. 


Eggs and Spaghetti. 
S lgeee spaghettt and cock it with a cupful of grated cheese. When 
the spaghetti and cheese are cooked add slices of hard-boiled 
eggs. Serve in a bowl garnished with pieces of soft toast. 
Among many other excellent dishes made with this paste are 
fried chicken with spaghetti and tomato jelly and macaroni au 


gratin in an Edam cheese case. 


Will Be FREE With all Editions 
: of Next ae 
Sunday’s American 


14 THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Some New Ways 
of Preparing 
Tomatoes 


BELIEVE that I can do a service to 
the American people by pointing 
the way. to a more varied and at- 


tractive use of vegetables. Americans 
have an abundance of good, cheap vegetables at their 
command, and they do not make a sufficient use of them 
or prepare them in as many attractive ways as would be 
possible. Of all these vegetables none is susceptible of 
more varied and appetizing treatment than the tomato. 

It would be ‘easy to write a volume on the various 
ways of preparing tomatoes. With a little knowledge it 
is possible to prepare a great number of very delicate 
dishes from the tomato. Its moderate price makes it ac- 
cessible to all purses. From time to time I shall return to 
this subject, which I. am sure will be of special interest to 
American reader. Here I give several excellent ways 
of cooking tomatoes. 

It may not even be necessary to buy them, for any 
man with a bit of garden can grow excellent tomatoes in 
the United States. I’ wish that my American readers 
could see the use that the poorest French :countrymen 
make of their vegetable gardens. The peasants of Pro- 
vence and Southern France, where I was born, are particu- 
larly skilful in the use of tomatoes. 

Tomatoes Sautees a la Provencale. 
UT the tomatoes in half, skin, press and remove the seeds. Then 


season with salt and pepper. Put them cut side undermost in a 
frying pan containing very-hot oil. 

Turn them over when they are half cooked, sprinkle them with 

2 little chopped parsley, together with a mite of garlic and some 


BY MONSI BUR A, 


bread crumbs. Put them in a moderate oven in order to finish their 
fr 


cooking and dish the tomatoes the momen 
the oven. It should be nt that t 
cooked slowly in order to I 

A little anchovy s 
additional flavor. This dish is particularl; 
thickly crusted bread. The tomatoes may be stuffed with t 
terials mentioned. In : i arly identical with 
“stuffed tomatoes a la bourgeois ich I 


are drawn from 


dish should :be 


4uce may be 


the ingredients to give 


Tomatoes Farcies, Mode Bourg: 


T)VICK a dozen medium sized tomatoes, cut off 


place them 
a frying pan (poele) containing boiling olive oil. 
they are half cooked { 

trange them a roasting .dish 
with the following mixture: 
teaspoonfuls of chopped onion, add 


c 
ro) 
a 
5 


piece of 

15 minu 

soaked in bouillon, or simply in \ 

coffee spoons of anchovy sauce 

eravy braised and rather 
When the tomatoes are 

mixed with grated 

them gently in 


o 
5 
te 


thm with 


them with oil, 


is good 


Qnartered Tomatoes. 
: SE medium sized tomatoes, somewhat firm and with very smvoth 
skins. Peel them and empty them and then fill them either 
with a fish ptiree cleared with jelly or with a macedoine of vege 
tables thickened by means of a mayonnaise with jelly. Place on 
for half an hour and cut the tomatoes into regular quarters. 
tomatoes may also be cut into four previous to stuffing them, where 
upon they may, with the help of a piping bag fitted with a groovec 

pipe, be filled with one of the compound butters. 


Tomato Salads. 

FIRST RECIPE.—Surround the peeled tomatoes with a 
composed of mild green peppers. chopped up, filets of anchovies c 
in little squares, a little chopped onion, arsley, tarragon and hard- 
boiled eggs chopped up and seasoned simply without may: i 
SECOND RECIPE.—Cover your peeled tomatoe i 


gon chopped up and asparagus tips. The seasoning 


THIRD RECIPE.—Surround the peeled tomatoes with a mace- 
doine (hash) of cold cooked carrots, turnips, peas, string beans, 


asparagus tips, white beans and cauliflower, 


= 
om 
wm 
® 
sy) 
y. 
e) 
a 
2 
if 
Oo 
eh 
n 
3) 
om 


THE WORLD'S G 


USE AND } 


Peter Coope 


TRY@ 


DAINTY GELATINE RECIPES—C@ 


; BY 
A. ESCOFFIER, CHEF OF THE RITZ-CARL 
COFFEE JELLY—One cupful of strong coffee. LEMON JELL\ 


four cupfuls of water, three heaping tablespoon- {| box of Peter Co 
fuls of Peter Cooper’s Gelatine. six tablespoontfuis | tine in’ one pint 
of sugar. Bring the water and sugar to the boii- | two minutes: ad 
ing point, then stir in the gelatine, and, when dis- | boiling water, 1% 
solved, add c@gffee. Pour into a wet ring mold. | and stir until di 
‘ Turn out when firm and serve with sweetened and | juice of three le 


whipped cream in the centre. Decorate with | through. jelly 
Sweet wafers. moulds. 


COLD EGGS A LA RICHE—Boil the eges five minutes; remove 
shells without breaking the eggs; when cold dress on fresh artichokes 
bottom, cover with mayonnaise sauce in which a little melted Petem 
Cooper’s Gelatine has been added: Julienne of celery and Truffle 
mixed with mayonnaise around the edge. Serve with chopped jeilyy 
on the dish. 


COFFEE CHARLOTTE RUSSE—Pour a Iittle) 
ar ah ca Riteact it to become frm. Line the mold with sweet waters: 
Cooper’s Gelatine in one cupful of Milk. Mix three eg 
cupful. of strong coffee, then add to the gelatine® 
from the fire, and, when cool, add the vanilla extragt 
prepared mold. Turn out when set. 


+] PETER COOPER’S GELATINE—E 


le Russe &c. 


LEW yore > 


Peter Cooper’s Gelatint 


ECOMMEND 
atine 


9 
rs 
THESE 

ILED FOR AMERICAN READERS 

FON, AND A. SHERON, OF THE ANSONIA 


CHOCOLATE AND BANANA BLANC-MANGE— 
is of sweet chocolate, and one and a 
half of Peter Cooper’s Gelatine, two cupfuls and a halt 
of milk, four tablespoonfuls of sugar and yolks of two 
eggs. Mix gelatine with milk and dissolve over fire, then | 
add sugar. Remove from fire and stir in yolks of eggs | 
and chocolate, Stir over fire a few minutes, then pout 
into wet mold. Turn out when set. Fill centre with 
| sliced bananas. Decorate with blanched almonds, macé&- 
- roons and sliced bananas, 


fANICLA BAVA 


—Soak one 
iper’s’ Gela- 
cold ‘water, 
| two pints 
cups sugar, | 
solved, add | 
ons, strain | 
bag into 


Four tablespoontfu 


VANILLA BAVAROIS—Four ounces powdered sugar, five yolks 
over one pit of boiling milk, 


p stirring on fire until near 
Gelatine dissolved in cup 


bf eges, beat well together, pour 
favored with one vanilla ‘bean. Kee 
boiling; add one-half box Peter Cooper’s 
of hot water and one pint of whipped cream. Put in a mold slightly 
foiled with almond oil and then place on ice until ready to serve. 
Bavarois can be made with many kinds of flavors—chocolate, coffees, 


strawberry? etc. 


; 


toffee jelly into the bottom of a wet mold and allow 
Dissolve two heaping tablespoonfuls of Peter 
Ps with four tablespoonfuls of sugar and add half a = E 
mid stir till it thickens; it must not boil. Remove gh OORy, 
i a < ar es a AR 
Mand two cupfuls of whipped cream. Pour into the CLARIFIED 


GELATIN 
ares 


he World’s Standard Since 1822 |) laste 


111 Broadway, N. Y. 


NKSGII1 ING COOK BOOK 


pepper, oil and vinegar should be thickened slightly with mayo 
naise. To this macedoine you may add either chopped cold lobste 
salmon, sole, chicken or boiled beef. 

FOURTH RECIPE.—Accompany the tomatoes with a salad of 
cucumbers cut in small cubes, from which the water has been par- 
tially extracted .by salting them slightly; filets of anchovies cut in 
Squares, a little chopped onion, parsley, chervil, tarragon and hard- 
boiled egg. This should be seasoned simply without mayonnaise. 

FIFTH RECIPE.—Serve the tomatoes with a salad made of rice 

ooked in water and well drained, with green or red peppers sliced 
Ae Season simply without mayonnaise. 

SIXTH RECIPE.—Use the rice as in the last recipe and add 
white chicken meat cut in dice or some cold fish, such as lobster, 
sole or salmon. The rice is much appreciated as a salad in hot 
weather. 


Tomatoes a l’Americaine. 
ELECT some firm, medium sized tomatoes and cut them into 
thin slices. Put them into a dish with salt, pepper, oil and a 
few drops of vinegar and leave them to marinade for twenty min- 
utes. Then arrange them on a hors d’oeuvre dish, garnishing the 
border’ with fine rings of onion. 


Tomatoes a iz Monegasque. 

ELECT some tomatoes about the size of walnuts and cut a slice 

from each in the region of the stalk. Squeeze out all the water 
and seeds and marinade them, inside, for twenty minutes, Prepare 
a mince of tunny with oil and add ‘thereto, per two ounces of the fish, 
half a tablespoonful of finely chopped onion, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, chervil and tarragon and a small hard-boiled egg, 
also chopped. 

Thicken the whole with a tablespoonful of thick mayonnaise; 
put it into a bag fitted with a smooth, medium sized pipe and garnish 
the tomatoes with the preparation, using enough of the latter to form 
a kind of dome upon each tomato. 


Mock Tomatoes. 
S ELECT some tomatoes about tthe size of a walnut and peel them 
carefully. Press them in a piece of lihen and set them to mari- 
nade for half an hour in oil and vinegar. Then stick a small piece 
of parsley salt into each tomato, in imitation of the stalk, and sur- 
round it with little leaves made from green butter by means of a 
small piping bag. 


Tunny with Tomatoes. 
Tt AY alternate slices of tunny and tomato upon a hors d’oeuvre 


dish and between each slice lay a thin round of onion. Garnish 
the edge of the dish with a border composed of sliced cooked cold 
potate. and sprinkle the whole with an ordinary. salad seasoning. 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 


Crawfish Recipes 


———eee 


NE of the favorite culinary delicacies of France is 
the ecrevisse or crawfish, It is prepared in many 
ways, but its highest mission is to furnish the 

basis of that delicious soup, ‘bisque of ecrevisses,’’ or 
‘hisque of crawfish.” 

It is highly probable that this dish, whether called 
‘“eerevisse’’ or ‘‘crawfish,’’ 1s unfamiliar to many of my 
American readers. I feel I shall be doing them a service 
by familiarizing them with this.subject. No ‘one tan dis- 
cuss French cookery at length without referring to ‘‘ecre- 
visses’’ from time to time. 

The ecrevisse or French crawfish is a small crustacean, 
in form like a lobster, and taking a bright red color when 
cooked like its larger cousin. I am informed that the 
crawfish is abundant along the Atlantic coast of. the 
United States. It is possible that as the American craw- 
fish is so much less used than the French, it is inferior to 
the French in flavor, but Iam by no means certain of 
that. Probably, if the virtues of bisque of crawfish were 
thoroughly understood, it would become as popular in 
America as in France. 

I will first give a recipe for the most delightful kind 
of bisque of crawfish adapted to the resources of private 
households. I must warn my readers however, that this 
is a difficult dish to ‘execute in an ordinary kitchen, and 
1 can hardly recommend anybody who is not an expert 
cook to try it, unless she is prepared to run the risk of 
wasting considerable valuable material. However, many 
of my readers must be familiar with the preparation of 
bisque of lobster, and they are in some degree initiated 
into the mysteries of this soup. 


THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Bisque of Crawfish. 
AKE twenty to twenty-five moderate sized crawfish, an onion 


of about two ounces, a carrot of the same weight, a pinch of 
thyme, a little leaf of bay, some stalks of parsley, a small glass of 
cognac and a large glass of white wine. 

Cut the onion and tthe carrot in little squares, brown them 
slightly in butter in a saucepan (casserole). Add the thyme, bay, 
parsley, a third of an ounce of salt, a pinch of pepper ground in the 
mill and a tiny pinch of red pepper. 

Saute the crawfish for several minutes. As soon as they are red 
moisten them with cognac and white wine. Cover the saucepan, 
cook at a sharp fire for ten minutes. Remove the crawfish from the 
saucepan. Shell the tails and put the meat of the tails in a little © 
covered saucepan. 

Pound in the mortar or chop in the meat machine the meat of 
the crawfish. As soon as they have been reduced to a paste mix in 
about three anf a half ounces of fresh butter. Pound again for 
several minutes, or pass through the machine, in order to mix the 
butter well in. 

Add tto the cooking liquid of the crawfish about six pints of good 
white bouillon. Boil it for several minutes. Combine this liquid 
with four soupspoonfuls of cream of rice diluted with cold bouillon. 
Let it cook gently eight to ten minutes. Add the crawfish reduced 
to a paste, let them boil a few minutes at the side of the fire. Pass 
this mass with pressure through a strainer into a saucepan; keep it 
warm. 

At the moment of serving season the soup according to taste and 
finish it with about two ounces of fine butter. Pass the soup again 
through the strainer, add the crawfish tails which have been kept in 
reserve and serve boiling hot. 

I have omitted here the addition of quenelles—little forcemeat balls 
—and dice made from crawfsh stuffing, which are generally added in 
great kitchens, but which are certainly not essential to the flavor of 
the dish. Tihhese garnishings only complicate the preparation of the 
dish in a simple household. 


Bisque of Crawfish with Bread. 


f‘XUT- some slices of white bread, crust included, weighing about 


eight ounces. Place it in a saucepan with half a pint of white 
bouillon, or, if it is inconvenient to provide this, simply hot water 
and a little salt. Boil it fifteen minutes to obtain a panada (bread 
paste). At this moment add the cooking liquor of the crawfish and 
the crawfish reduced to a paste. Heat them and pass them through 
the strainer, as in the preceding recipe. Finish in the same way. 
This soup may be thickened with a yolk of egg and cream. 


Bisque of Shrimp or Lobster. 

[* any of the preceding recipes the crawfish may be replaced by 
shrimp or lobster. If lobster is used cut the meat into small 
gduares and cook in the same manner as the crawfish. 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 


A Dinner 
That Was 
Served Me 


in Perigord 


bs | 


HE French cuisine reaches, 
a perhaps, its highest and most 
interesting development in Peri- 
gueux, the capital of the ancient 


Gene nencenrenetne ene arensocnobhnaisies 


Province of Perigord. 


In the vicinity the famous red partridges are found in 
abundance, while the luscious truffle atiine perfection 


on the soil of Perigord. The city of Perigueux is noted 
throughout France for its delicious ‘‘terrines’ and. 
‘“nates’’ of red partridge, with ducks’ livers and truffles. 
Well do I reeall a visit to a hospitable Perigueux home 
on a crisp day in early December, when the red partridges 
have the finest flavor and the truffles begin to perfume 
the atmosphere. The sharpness of the air lent the appe- 
tite that is desirable when one faces the rich and gener- 
ous fare of Perigord. The midday repast to which I was 
entertained was remarkable as an example of the best 
French household cooking, and I feel sure that it will in- 


terest my American readers as a possible menu for 


> 


Thanksgiving Day. 
After a number of appetizing hors d’oeuvres, our host- 
a dish of sweet- 


99 


(a4 


ess served a fine omelet ‘‘a la paysanne, 
breads beautifully browned, accompanied by spinach 
cooked with butter, a saddle of lamb on the spit, accom- 
panied by cepes ‘‘a la. Perigourdine,’’ a divine terrine 
of red partridges, a salad of celery ‘‘aux fines herbes,’’ a 
pie of carameled appre very carefully prepared, various 
fruits and cheeses, and e¢ offee, 


, 


22 THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Omelet a la Paysanne. 

ae HE name of this dish, “a la paysanne” (“in the countrywoman’s ° 
style’), suggests at once that it is a dish suited to modest 

households. 

The following are the quantities of materials required for six 
persons: ‘Twelve fresh eggs, three and a half ounces of lean bacon 
cut in dice, about five ounces of butter, a tablespoonful of chopped 
i f potatoes cut in dice, salt and pepper. 


ing pan with an ounce and a half of butter 


fire not very hot. As soon as the bacon begins to fry 


and put on 
add the potatoes cut in dice and let them cook at a slow fire. When 


the potatoes are cooked add the chives or parsley. 
Pp p J 


While waiting for this you must break the eggs, to which you add 


the salt and pepper necessary, taking into consideration the salt in 
the bacon. The eggs must be thoroughly beaten up to make a per- 
fectly uniform liquid of them. Then add the bacon and potatoes. 

If you have only one frying pan at your disposal, it will be ad- 
visable to wipe it with a clean cloth in order that the omelet may not 
i the bottom. Then put the frying pan back on a sharp fire, 


keeping your three and a half ounces of butter-in reserve. As soon 


as the | gins to take a light brown color, pour the eggs into 


the boiling | Shake the frying pan and stir the eggs with a 


fork. Then turn over the omelet as you would a pancake. A few 


onds will suffice to finish cooking the omelet. Slip it immediately 


on a dish and serve att once. 


In Summer the French peasants carry these omelets with them 


oO 


prepared in advance and eat‘them cold. 

Eggs are an even more valuable resource in housekeeping than 
most people realize. In spite of their present high price one can 
always use them with bacon and vegetables to, prepare nourishing, 


appetizing and really economical dishes. ‘I shall return to this 
important subject in another article. 


Veal Sweetbread with Spinach. 
i HE veal sweetbreads must be chosen white and without any speck 
p | 


or, in any case, change the water several times. 
Place the sweetbreads in a rather large saucepan and cover them 
Put the saucepan on the fire and withdraw it at the 


1 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 23 


the sinews, and then cover them with a cloth. Place over them a 
dish and then a small board, thus putting a slight pressure upon 
them. After half an hour withdraw them and stick small pieces of 
bacon fat into them (that is, lard them). 

Put them in a saucepan, the bottom of which is covered with 
bacon morsels, little onions and chopped carrots. Braise them with 
slight moistening, and add a faggot of parsley, thyme and a bay leaf 
well tied together. Sprinkle them with melted butter, salt them 
lightly, moisten them with a quart of bouillon (clear soup), then let 
this liquid boil down completely. Moisten them again with the same 
quantity of bouillon, boil it down again, moisten once more, and 
finish cooking in the oven at a gentle fire, sprinkling them with their 
gravy. To obtain a thorough cooking thirty to thirty-five minutes 
is sufficient. Serve them with their gtavy passed through a fine 

. Strainer. Serve at the same time the spinach. 


Spinach Cooked in Butter, 
Go the spinach leaves in a pan with salted water. Wash them 
frequently with water to remove the sand which they may 
contain completely. Drain them, press out the moisture and chop 
them up very fine. Heat some butter in a saucepan, add the chopped 
spinach, stir them up with a long wooden spoon, adding a little 
butter. This will work out the moisture. Season them to taste with 


salt and a little scraped nutmeg. Finish by adding an ounce and a 
half of fine butter. 


Spinach “Au Naturel.” 
AVING cooked the spinach in salt water as before, wash and 
drain the leaves carefully, then remove all water and give them 


a few strokes with the knife without chopping them up. Put them 
into a frying pan in which you have heated some butter; salt to 
taste and serve very hot. : 

This method of preparing spinach is very much appreciated in 
Italy, where they add filets of anchovies to it. 


To Cook Young Spinach. 


Ob tien very young spinach, cook it as in the other recipes in 
salt water. Drain it on a white cloth and arrange it in a 
vegetable dish with little rounds of good butter, slightly salted. 


Spinach Without Water. 

HE following method is very little known and has the advantages 
* of preserving all the nutriment in the spinach and avoiding the 
use of boiling water: HOR. 

Having washed and drained the spinach very thoroughly, cut it 
up in coarse pieces and put it in a saucepan in which you have 
heated three and a half ounces of butter to every pound of spinach. 
Add salt, grated nutmeg and cook sharply. 


ING | COOK BOOK 


Saddle of Lamb. 


Cc the saddle 


In the pan in whi 


of lamb on a spit b a wood fire, if possible. 


the dripping falls place a clove of garlic to 


perfume the dripping, w which you moisten the roast. 


Cepes a la Perigourdine. 


epes, 


clean them well and 


7NHOOSE 


\4 remove some olive oil in a 


turning them on 
nd drain them on a 
7 espoonfuls of olive 

f onion choppe le. s soon as the onion 
brown color p stalks of the 
f 1utes, them with 
garlic and a pinch of chopped 
frying pan, heat them well and 
Sprinkle the surface with one or 


and cook 


Season th 


has taken a 
cepes, let 


3 


mushroom, may be purchased preserved. 


<a cepes, a va 


Terrine of Red Partridges. 

partridges. When they are plucked and 
feet, remove the entrails from in front and 
ior with salt, pepper and spices; 
hampagne” aot brandy), 
quares, and mixed with 
salt, pepper, foe e and 
The properueue needed for 
jarter of ducks’ livers an nd about 


moisten Sone 
stuff them ah. 
quarters of truf! 

several tablespoon 
sirée partridges. are a 
ten ounces of truffle Ss. 

With thin strips of the bottom and the sides of 
a terrine (earthenware Geuéepan). | sapable of holding the partridges 
without squeezing but yet not leaving room 
for them to rattle around. left with pieces of 
ducks’ liver and quarters of truffles. y the surface of the 
partridges, add a small ayleaf, two glass of “fine” champagne 
(brandy) and cover i ; completely with strips of bacon 
Cover the terrine and cook for‘about an hour and a quarter in 


oven and in a dish in which have put a little water. When 
cooking is completed keep the in a cool place until the 


t. id cover with a sauce 
\ mixed with olive oil, red wine vinegar, “fines herbes” Giaes; 


narsley, chives. etc., chopped very fine). salt. pepper and mustard: 


BY 


MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 


How to Make Good Soups 


note 


HE beginning of an ordinary dinner is the soup 
We should begin everything well. I will, there- 


fore, tell my American friends how to make some 


EET NAPE RT ET 
ee - 


These are not the fi 
most elaborate nor 
the most costly soups 


Se nese 


of the French cui- 
sine, but they have | 
no superiors in paia- 
tability or nutritious 
Gretitres..- fhe 


veloute, or cream of 


+ + 
Hi 


chicken soup, which | 


[ first des 


ribe, forms | 


miliar v 
French co ook ing un- 
derstand. 


Cream of Chicken j 


Soup 


a @ HE following ene 
tities of material 


sized onions, 


half ounces 
four ounces of douse four 
of cream. 


ounc 


THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Pee 


Slice up the onions, put them in a saucepan capable of holding 
about three and a half quarts of water, in which you have previously 
melted the butter. Let the onions cook from eight to ten minutes on 
a gentle fire, so that they do not burn. Divide the chicken in four 
Or more pieces, place them in the saucepan and cover it. Cook for 
ten or twelve minutes. 

Add your flour. Stir with a wooden spoon, so as to amalgamate 
the whole thoroughly. Add two quarts of boiling water, taking care 
to stir continually with the spoon to prevent the flour from sticking 
to the bottom of the saucepan. As soon as the liquid begins to boil, 
withdraw the saucepan from the fire and place it on the corner of 
the range to secure a very slow boiling. Add half an ounce of salt, 
a bouquet made of several sprigs of parsley and a small bayleaf 
tied together. Let it cook for about half an hour. Then withdraw 
the pieces of chicken, cut the white meat in small cubes, and keep 
it warm, Pass the liquid through a fine strainer, and keep it warm. 
This is a veloute soup. 

At the moment of serving, finish the soup by adding five to six 
soupspoonfuls of fresh cream and the chicken cut in dice. 

The meat of the chicken may be pounded up before it is added 
to the soup, which is then passed through a straining cloth or a 
fine tammy. In this case finish the soup with two or three soup- 
poonfuls of fine butter. or cream, 

Either of these preparations may at the last moment be thick- 
ened with yolk of egg, allowing three yolks for each quart of soupy 

When the meat of the chicken is added to the soup in the form of 
puree, this preparation takes the name of “Potage a la Reine” or 
“Coulis of Chicken.” It is one of our finest French soups. 

To all of these preparations you may add at the moment of 
serving two tablespoonfuls of rice cooked in bouillon (clear broth) 
or milk. As another variation you may add some pearl barley or 
little pieces of macaroni cooked in salt water. 

This veloute may also be prepared with veal. In this case you 
must use the very lean and gelatinous meat of the knuckles. Other- 
wise the preparation is the same as in veloute of chicken. 

You may also use half veal and half chicken. This is a legitimate 
method of effecting an economy. In any case, they are all excellent 
soups and their preparation is easy. 


Some Vegetable Soups 
WILL now deal with another stage in the use of veloute soups. 
With a good veloute you can make a large variety of ““cremes” 


or “veloutes” of vegetables by adding to the liquid one-third 


of its volume of the vegetables.. You may add either asparagus, 
green peas, string beans, white beans, lettuce, chicory, artichokes, 
cauliflower, tomatoes or mushrooms. Except in ‘the case of tomatoes 
and mushrooms, all these vegetables are cooked in salt water, drained 
without being passed through cold water, placed immediately in a 
Saucepan with five or six ounces of butter to each pound of vege- 
tables. Put the saucepan on the fire so as to evaporate a large part 
of the water contained in the vegetables. Add them to the veloute 


MONSIEUR 


soup, and allow them to boil 
fine tammy or a straining clo 
serving finish the soup with 
Veloute of 

. some very ripe ton 
4 remove the seeds, and tl 
saucepan with butter, salt and 
leaf dnd some Sprite: $0 ; 
twenty-five minutes, and ac 
as in the preceding eres 


Veloute 
HOOSE some very fresh and 
with plenty of wat 
quickly with butter on a s 
Season them with salt and pep 
steck, boil it for several minutes, 
cloth. Keep it hot, and 
with a little fine butter a 


or fine butter. 


[= 


: | “HE following reci 
Take a quar 


water well salted, diain 
through a fine tammy or 
chicken consomme and 
serving add half i 
Pass the soup ag: 
an accompaniment you 
a few ta icaycoutels of 

This soup may be pr 
bouillon with good milk, 


»ked 
for di 


q* xy 

Tream or & 

‘| 7 HE following quantities are ca 
Cut into thin sli 

son with a pi 


carrots, sea 
powdered 


TE AKE one pound of very fres 
them with watter and then stew im one and 


butter. Add them to one pint of ordinary velout 


THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


for seven or eight minutes, rub it through a tammy sieve, add one 
and one-half pints of ordinary white consomme, heat and finish up 
with a thickening consisting of yolk of egg, beaten up with milk 
and a little fresh butter. 


White Bean Soup. 
REPARE one pint of ordinary veloute and mix with one-half 
pint of a puree of white beans. Rub through a tammy sieve; 


add one-half pint of white consomme. Heat and finish the whole 
when dishing up with a thickening made of one or two yolks of 
eggs with a little milk and some fresh butter. Garnish with two 
tablespoonfuls of an ordinary julienne and a pinch of chervil. 


French Cooking Terms Explained. 

GIVE here an explanation of some of the commonest 

French cooking terms. These are constantly met with 
not only in French, but in English books and articles on 
cooking, and yet the majority of English-speaking read- 
ers are uncertain as to their meaning, whether they are 
given in French or translated by some unfamiliar Eng- 
lish word. 

Veloute, or Blond Sauce. 


HIS sauce is nothing but a white gravy thickened with a 


“liaison.” It serves as a basis for most of the white, blond, 
pink or green sautes. The veloute is the basis of the very valuable 
soups which we call “creme” or “veloute” soups. The word “veloute” 
means literally “velveted.” It is important to know that the ‘ve- 
ioutte,” being only an ingredient in the “liaison” or thickening of a 
sauce, should have a natural flavor, so that it may be used with 
butcher’s meat, poultry or game. Veal or chicken gives the best 
results in preparing it. 


Bain Marie. 
METHOD of cooking which consists in placing the material 
to be cooked in a vessel surrounded by water. It is used for 


certain “‘creams” and other preparations which must not be sub- 
mitted to the direct action of boiling. 


Glace. 
HE French word “glace” means “meat glazing,” the “icing” of 


confectionery and also “ice” or “ice cream.” Some confusion 
has arisen among foreigners through these different meanings. The 
first is the most important from a culinary point of view. The 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 


“slazing” is a gravy or broth which has been boiled down to the 
jast point. It owes its name to the rich, golden, shining glaze it 
sacquires at this stage. 

Glazing is made from butcher’s meat, poultry and fish. To “glaze” 
means to sprinkle an object with its glazing and then expose it to 
sufficient heat in the oven to fix this glazing. 

Tamis. 
OMETIMES called “Tammy” in English. This is a utensil for 
straining, sometimes provided with a pestle to pound material 
within it. We commonly use two kinds of strainers—the “tammy” 
and the “etamine” or cloth for straining. 


Bouquet. 
HIS is a term constantly used in French cookery and not much 
understood by American cooks. It means a bunch of herbs ‘tied 
together to give a flavor to a dish. A “bouquet garni” is a bunch 
consisting of parsley, thyme, bayleaf, celery, chervil and other herbs 
tied together. Bets EA: : 
Quenelles. 
ITTLE balls used to garnish soups and entrees. They are of 
various sizes, but always oval in shape. They are prepared 
with veal, chicken, game or any fish. One of these materials pounded 
up with raw eggs, spice, cream, flour or seasoning makes “quenelles.” 


Cuisson. 
HIS term, which literally means “the action of cooking,’ 
used to indicate the liquid accompanying a meat that is cooking. 


Dice (in French “Des.’’) 
HESE are little squares of meat much used in garnishing 
dishes, SRS NESS 
Etuver, or to Stew a I’Etuvee. 
HIS denotes a kind of cooking which is done in a completely 
closed saucepan with very little liquid in it. 
Liaison or Thickening. 


HE French word “liaison” indicate 
The 


> is often 


French cookery. 
in English, but this is a ra 
several kinds. One is made with 
a white sauce. It u 
thinned with a little 
Another “liaison” is a mixture 
such as bouillon, gravy or whi 
must be fairly liquid, is used to tl 


the 
tner 


ox 


30 THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Dainty Dessert 
Recipes 


HE sweet course cannot make 
an otherwise poor dinner 
good, but it can. seriously 

mar the delight of an otherwise 
perfect meal. From the almost 
endless array of desserts which my 
years of experience have taught 
me to make, I have selected the 
following, which, I feel sure, will 
be found pleasing to the appe- 
tites of my American friends: 


Cherries Adelina Patti. 
ADAME PATTI, whom I have the honor of knowing, has a 


marked sympathy for vanilla ice cream with cherries preserved 
in very fine brandy. I asked her recently for permission to give the 
public the benefit of this taste by introducing ‘‘Cherries Adelina Patti,” 
The secret of this recipe, which is in reality very simple, lies in 
securing the very finest vanilla ice cream. This must be prepared 
in the highest style of the art. It must be smooth, fine and creamy, 
and especially there must be no economy of eggs and fresh cream. 
Serve the ice cream in attractive little glasses and on this founda- 
tion place fine cherries with brandy or fine champagne. 


Sour Cream Pie. 
EAT two eggs thoroughly, then beat in one cup of sugar. Add 


one cup of sour cream, one-half a cup of raisins and cinnamon 
and nutmeg to taste. Bake in two crusts. This makes a pie con- 
sidered by many as good as the best mince pic. 


Bisque Ice Cream. 
ILUTE three cans of evaporated milk with an equal quantity of 
water, scalded and cooled; add one cup sugar and stir occa- 
sionally until dissolved. Melt one-third of a cupful of sugar in a 
flat-bottomed pan to a caramel, stirring it meanwhile, and add one- 
quarter of a cupful of hot water. When-the caramel is dissolved, 


BY MONSIEUR A. ESCOFFIER 


pour into the milk and to this mixture add one and one-half cupfuls 
hickorynut meats chopped fine. Pack in the freezer as usual and 
freeze, not turning very fast at first, but more rapidly after ten 
minutes. 


Chocolate Frappe. 


ee one quart of milk in a double boiler. Then put four ounces 
of unsweetened chocolate, cut up in small pieces, three table- 
spoonfuls of hot water and one cup of sugar, into a granite ware 
pan, and stir over a hot fire until glossy. Stir this mixture into the 
hot milk. Beat well with a whisk. Add one teaspoonful of vanilla. 
Chill the mixture, freeze it soft and serve immediately in long glasses 
with whipped cream flavored with vanilla. 


Peach Sherbet. 


ELT three cupfuls of sugar in one cupful of hot cream. Allow 


it to cool and then add three cupfuls of milk and one-half of 
lemon juice. When the mixture is partly frozen add one pint of 
mashed peaches, and let the sherbet ripen for several hours. 
Strawberry milk sherbet may be made inthe same way. 


Chocolate Parfait. 


ELT two ounces of unsweetened chocolate in half a cupful of 


water, add one cupful of sugar and boil until thick. Pour the 
mixture over the yolks of four eggs. Place in a double boiler, cook 
and stir constantly, until a spoon placed in the mixture is caked. 
Stand in a basin of water and beat frequently until cold. Add one 
pint of thick whipped cream and flavor with one teaspoonful of 
vanilla. Serve in glasses and place on ‘top of each one tablespoonful 
of whipped cream flavored with a little vanilla. 


Frozen Egg Nog. 

EAT until they are light the yolks of five eggs, and then gradually 
beat in one cupful of sugar. Add a quart of milk and a 'table- 
spoonful of vanilla, and placing the mixture in a freezer, freeze to a 
very soft mush. Then beat a cupful of heavy cream until it is firm, 
and fold it into the beaten whites of five eggs. Add to the mixture 

in ‘the freezer and freeze until stiff. 
A quarter of a cupful of sherry may be added in place of vanilla 
if desired. Serve in tall glasses with a little nutmeg sprinkled over. 


Syrian Parfait. 

OUR a pint of scalded cream over a quarter of a pound of freshly 
roasted coffee and let it stand for half an hour. Cream the 
yolks of six eggs with a quarter of a pound of sugar. When well 
beaten; add the coffee mixture and stir over boiling water until the 
inixture equals the consistency of thick cream. Strain, add: one-half 
pint of cream and two teaspoonfuls of vanilla. Beat over ice, pack 
into a mould and freeze. 


32 THE THANKSGIVING COOK BOOK 


Paradise Pudding. 


OVER two tablespoonfuls of gelatine with one cupful of cold 


milk and let soak a few minutes. Stand it over the tea kettle 
until the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved. Whip one-half pint’ of 
cream, add to it half a cupful of powdered sugar, one cupful of 
chopped dates and one teaspoonful of vanilla. Add the gelatine, stir 
until it thickens and turn out to cool. Maraschino cherries may be 
used as a garnish or chopped pistachio nuts may be sprinkled thickly 
over, 


Bavarian Sponge: 
D ISSOLVE one-half box gelatine in one cup of boiling water and 
add to it' one pint warm milk, two teaspoons sugar and yolks 
of four eggs beaten stiff; allow to come to a boil at once. Set aside 
to cool and then add one teaspoonful of vanilla and one pint of 
whipped cream. 


Mock Ice. 
“y UB three tablespoons of preserves (any kind) through a sieve, 
with enough cream to fill a quart mould. Dissolve three tea- 
spoonfuls. of gelatine in one cup of boiling water; when almost cold 
mix with. the cream. Put into mould and let cool until next day. 


Lemon Pudding. 
OAK in four tablespoonfuls of water two tablespoons of gela- 
tine; then add a pint of boiling water, one cup sugar and the 
juice of two lemons. Strain and set aside to cool. When cold stir 
in the whites of three eggs, thoroughly beaten. Serve with sweet- 
ened cream. 


Prune Jelly. 

FTER washing thoroughly one-half pound of good prunes, put 
them into a small basin with a half cupful of water, put on 
the cover ald steam. When they are soft, remove the stones and 
place the prunes in wet moulds. Add to one heaping tablespoontul 
of powdered gelatine in a saucepan one cup of boiling water and one 
cup of fruit juice, the strained juice of two oranges and one table- 
spoonful of lemon juice. Stir over the fire until the sugar is dis- 

solved and then strain over the prunes. Serve with whipped cream. 


Fruit Tapioca. 

S OAK two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in half a cupful of cold water 

for two hours. Scald two cupfuls of milk, add the tapioca and 
cook until clear. ‘Then add the yolks of three eggs, beaten light, with 
one-half cupful of sugar and, one heaping tablespoonful of powdered 
gelatine dissolved in “one-half cupful of boiling water. Cook five 
minutes, remove from stove and add one cupful of peaches, a pinch 
cf salt and one teaspoonful of vanilla extract. After mixing well 
cool and serve in dainty glasses. 


Aw —_ vO 


IT’S THE BEST TO-DAY 
AS HEALTHFUL AS IT 1S DELICIOU 


IN THE DAYS 
WHEN FOOD PUR\ 


x 2 
9 Cs 
at 
= 
WM & 
2 
— <r 
COCs: 
= Uw} 
ts 
Cea 
ae 
=<. 
R= 
= = 
Wwe 
eo eS 
ut 
== 
i 
— —= 
pees 


Ne) 


. 


c< 
> 
EL 
o< 
ut 
rs ak 
| a 
co 
— 
=< 
ut 
ae 
© 
ra 
at 
== 
QD 
— 
= 


a 
Yaa 
| 
aad 
a. 
oc 
ut 
aia 
= 
= Hee 
Oo 
— 
= 
c< 
= 
EX: 
ut 
fa a 
-— 


Vy 
Sem, as 2 
Utena an’ essa =e 


FIEND RODIN 5 AT 


CTE BLL TL LEIDEN CLIN 


APD NPT ee 


Nef es? 
4 


qe 


' 
5 
3 
5 
tt 
i 


on 


